Bin 


SINT HISEIN 





= 
t} i 
oa I 


i 


~~ . “ ‘ - ihe 





oA 


rt 


¢ 


se 





PS 


pars 


at 

a 7 
4 5 
: 
+ 
re 








ae ie me 





ot ot 


a a, oF E fs 











ee 


Pet Tam 
say a 
Pe a 

oi * a 

ai Tio 
imp ay 

Ss 
ie. 
: : re 
i 
ta 

: me 
a . fe: 

2 + 
ay: 2a 
AC 
ie ae 
ih ae 

Phar 

i ie ve - 
mh) a) 

Ais 

_ ‘ 

ri Fae 
v4 

= 

7 

7 





ZEUS 


m SE UDY-IN ANCIENT RELIGION 


VOLUME II 
PART I 


CAMBRIDGE 


UNIVERSITY PRESS 
LONDON : Fetter Lane 





New York 
The Macmillan Co, 


Bompay, Catcutra and 
Mapras 


Macmillan and Co., Ltd. 
Toronto 


The Macmillan Co. of 
Canada, Ltd. 


Toxyo 
Maruzen-Kabushiki-Kaisha 


All rights reserved 


LEUS 


A STUDY IN ANCIENT RELIGION 


BY 
ARTHUR BERNARD COOK 


FELLOW AND LECTURER OF QUEENS COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE 
READER IN CLASSICAL ARCHAEOLOGY TO THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CAMBRIDGE 


VOLUME II 


ZEUS GOD OF THE DARK SKY 
(THUNDER AND LIGHTNING) 


y@ Zeds ddoKa pev éheu alOpros, dddoxa Sd vew 
THEOKRITOS 4. 43 


PART | 
TEXT AND NOTES 


Cambridge : 


at the University Press 


1925 


teat 
ay hae a 5 

VT MATE a er ad : 
DRY A ee i 
Jie Gach os 
ee ee 
JOS sha 


a ’ 
‘ jen de ‘ 
al eo q i iin i 4 u 7 


iy 
¥ 
a 


4) Bory) ‘ vee 


a ah 





PREFACE 


HE first volume of this treatise dealt with Zeus as god of the 

Bright Sky and traced his evolution in that capacity from 
early Hellenic to late Hellenistic times. It included therefore both 
the pre-classical change from Zeus the animate Sky to Zeus the 
anthropomorphic Sky-god and the post-classical connexion of the 
latter with Sun, Moon, and Stars. But, apart from incidental 
allusions, it devoted little space to the common classical conception 
of Zeus as god of Thunder and Lightning. To investigate this is 
the main purpose of my second volume. It will, I trust, be followed 
some day by a third (already planned and partly written), in which 
the relations of Zeus to other phaenomena—Clouds and Rain, Wind 
and Dew, Earthquakes and Meteorites—will find their appropriate 
place. I shall hope to conclude at long last with a general survey 
of the Sky-god and his cult as constituting one factor in the great 
fabric of Greek civilisation, indeed as in some sense a contribution 
to Christianity itself. 

Meantime the subject of Zeus as god of Thunder and Lightning 
cannot be adequately discussed without taking into account a 
number of allied topics—the Dzosemza or ominous ‘Zeus-sign’; 
the Dzébletos or ‘Zeus-struck’ man; the ‘road of Zeus’ from earth 
to heaven; the sky-pillars of Greece and Italy ; the central shrine 
of Delphoi, where Zeus was successively associated with Dionysos 
and Apollon; again, Kronos the ‘Minoan’ storm-god to whom 
Zeus was affiliated; the double axe inherited by Zeus from his 
predecessor; the origin, development, and decline of his own 
peculiar weapon the thunderbolt. With all of these themes I have 
attempted pro meis viribus to cope. But reviewers and others that 
may wish to get a quick insight into the contents of the present 
volume would do well to begin by reading pp. 840-858, in which 
I have tried to summarise the principal results of my investiga- 
tion. They must, however, bear in mind that a summary statement 
proves nothing. Proof can be had only by a patient consideration 
of the evidence presented in the text and notes, which will, I hope, 
be found reasonably complete. 

The footnotes, I admit, are heavy, perhaps too heavy for 
modern dyspeptic digestions, and I shall expect to have quoted 
against me the usual tags—‘a thin stream of text’ etc. and ‘ what's 


viil Preface 


worth putting into a book at all is worth putting into the body of 
it. But in self-defence I may plead that I have made the foot- 
notes serve three distinct purposes. First and foremost, I have 
used them for documentation. Asa rule, I have been content with 
bare references, which I have, of course, always verified by actual 
perusal. But, where the precise wording of the authority, whether 
ancient or modern, was of importance, I have not scrupled to give 
it in full. I have also, with hardly an exception, cited all Greek 
and Latin inscriptions, these being less readily accessible to the 
general reader than the literary texts. Secondly, I have sometimes 
relegated to the notes extra details which, though themselves of 
interest, seemed more or less irrelevant to my immediate theme. 
I have repeatedly found such excrescences of ritual or myth to 
possess a significance unsuspected at first and only later appre- 
ciated when the other half of the indenture had been brought to 
light. In fact I have come to hold that in deciphering religious 
records irregular edges should not be hastily trimmed off. One 
should rather cherish a healthy distrust of over-neat hypotheses 
and explanations that leave nothing to be explained. Life is 
seldom so simple and symmetric as our interpretation of it. 
Thirdly, I use my notes deliberately for the mention or discussion 
of side-issues and subsidiary points, provided that these arise 
directly out of the text. I shall no doubt be told that I am 
pursuing hares. But hares, after all, may be caught and are worth 
the catching. Their pursuit is to be regretted only if it hinders 
the main march of the argument—only, that is, if the chase crosses 
the text. The footnote saves the situation. 

Naturally, if these side-issues are too long, they must be handled 
in Appendixes. The Second Part of Volume II contains a dozen 
such, of which four belong by rights to Volume I, vzz. A ‘ Kairos,’ 
B ‘The Mountain-Cults of Zeus,’ E ‘The Kyklops in Folk-Tales, 
F ‘The Dioskouroi and Helene in modern Folk-Tales.’ Appendix C 
‘Korinthos son of Zeus’ and Appendix D ‘The Wheel as a Coin- 
type’ have been again omitted through lack of space. The remain- 
ing eight Appendixes are properly attached to Volume II, wzz. G 
‘Orphic Theogonies and the Cosmogonic Eros, H ‘Zeus K¢észos, 
I ‘Zeus Agamémnon, J ‘Zeus Amphidraos,; K ‘Zeus Trephénios or 
Trophénios, L ‘Zeus Asklepids, M ‘Zeus Meilichios; N ‘Zeus 
Philios’ Seven out of the eight discuss specialised forms of Zeus to 
which allusion is made in the text. Anothercaseof thesort, Appendix 
O‘Zeus Oljmpios, will be moreconveniently postponed to VolumelIII. 


Preface iX 


The episodical character of the book with its sections and 
subsections is due, at least in part, to the circumstances in which 
it has been composed. I have throughout been in full work as 
College Lecturer in Classics and University Reader in Classical 
Archaeology, responsible therefore for a good deal of teaching, 
examining, and organisation, Such a life, however congenial, tends 
to produce a certain mental attitude, the habit of thinking in 
compartments. Term-time leaves but scanty scraps of leisure for 
research, and the mind is more or less jaded when vacation is 
reached. Under such conditions anything like sustained flight or 
long-continued effort becomes doubly difficult. And I do not 
doubt that a better book on the same subject will some day be 
written by a man with larger leisure and clearer outlook. 

But I do not wish to leave the impression that I have found 
the writing of Zeus irksome or unduly fatiguing, On the contrary, 
it has been a perpetual delight to come back and back again to a 
central theme, which so obviously serves to illuminate a dozen 
departments of classical study and in turn receives much illumina- 
tion from them. A task of this kind, though it can never be other 
than a financial failure, carries with it its own reward. 

Not the least pleasurable part of the undertaking has been my 
growing sense of indebtedness to many friends. Some, alas, I can 
no longer thank as I should wish to do for their inspiration and 
their help. Of those whose names appeared in the Preface to 
Volume I six have since died. James Hope Moulton, a greater 
man even than Cambridge knew him to be, lived a life of self- 
sacrifice and in April 1917 died a heroic death—or rather, as he 
himself phrased it in those dark days, els tiv Napwmpav amhdlev: 
I count myself lucky to be able to include a passing reference to 
his name. C. H. W. Johns, learned and lovable to the last, was 
taken from us in August 1920: I shall not soon forget how, shortly 
before the end, he sat propped in his study-chair and bidding me 
hold up the big folio—for his own arm was half-paralysed—read 
aloud to me a cuneiform text (p. 482 f.) and furnished it there and 
then with an ample commentary out of the depths of his know- 
ledge. Otto Gruppe too is gone—a grave loss to learning—leaving 
as one of his latest writings a brief but masterly paper on ‘ Die 
Anfange des Zeuskultus’ (Neue Jahrb. f. klass. Altertum 1918 
xli—xlii. 289—302). E. Babelon, J. R. McClean, A. Wright—the 
list lengthens. But it is a list which, happily, is balanced and 
more than balanced by an increasing number of scholars able and 


X Preface 


willing to devote themselves to the serious study of ancient religion 
on one or another of its many sides. To not a few of them I am 
much beholden. 

The bulk of my proofs has been read by Miss J. E. Harrison, 
and the whole of them by Dr J. Rendel Harris. Both are workers 
with books of their own half-written; and I appreciate the generous 
spirit in which they have hindered themselves to help me. 

For matters outside my competence I have been able to cite 
the expert opinion of others. Chinese parallels to Greek mythology 
have been furnished by Prof. H. A. Giles; Japanese parallels, by 
my friend Mr H. G. Brand, long resident in Tokyo, and again by 
his friend Prof. Takeo Wada of Kyoto University. Mesopotamian 
texts have been explained to me, not only by the late Dr C. H. W. 
Johns, but also by my friend and former pupil Mr Sidney Smith, 
Assistant in the Assyriological department of the British Museum. 
On several points of Egyptology I have consulted Mr F. W. Green, 
Honorary Keeper of the Egyptian Antiquities in the Fitzwilliam 
Museum, Cambridge, and Mr F. LI. Griffith, Reader in Egyptology 
at Oxford. For Phoenician names I have applied to my neighbour 
Mr N. McLean, University Lecturer in Aramaic, and to my 
colleague the Rev. Dr R. H. Kennett, Regius Professor of Hebrew; 
for Lydian names, to Mr W. H. Buckler, editor of the inscriptions 
found at Sardeis. On a few details of Indian cult I have been 
aided by Prof. E. J. Rapson and by Mr H. B. Thompson of 
Queens’ College, Cambridge. In dealing with Celtic and Germanic 
deities I have been guided on occasion by Prof. H. M. Chadwick, 
while references to Icelandic sagas were collected for me by 
Miss N. Kershaw (now Mrs Chadwick). An important note on 
the Anglo-Saxon rune (ear or Zr) was sent me by Mr B. Dickins 
of Edinburgh University. 

For Greek and Latin etymologies I have time after time used 
as a touchstone the wise judgment of my friend and colleague 
Dr P. Giles, Reader in Comparative Philology to the University 
of Cambridge. Mr J. Whatmough, a former pupil of us both, now 
Lecturer in Classics at Bangor, has revised my restoration of a 
ritual text in old Latin, the well-known but little-understood hymn 
of the Salii. Questions of Thracian and Illyrian phonetics have 
been considered for me by Mr B, F. C. Atkinson of Magdalene 
College, Cambridge, whose results, reached along the lines of strict 
philological method, have opened up a new vista of possibilities 
to the historian of early Greek religion. Here and there my 


Preface xi 


inadequate knowledge of Byzantine authors has been eked out by 
the wider experience of Prof. J. B. Bury; and in regard to the 
dialects of modern Greece Prof. R. M. Dawkins has more than 
once given me an authoritative decision. 

Where the argument has trenched upon the domain of Science 
I have met with equal kindness and cooperation. An astronomical 
note was penned for me by my old college-friend Prof. E. T. 
Whittaker, late Astronomer Royal of Ireland. Mr C. T.R. Wilson, 
Jacksonian Professor of Natural Philosophy, has supplied me 
with interesting information on a point of electrical meteorology. 
Dr L. A. Borradaile, University Lecturer in Zoology, has brought 
his special knowledge of crustaceans to bear on the crabs of 
Agrigentum and Tenedos. Dr A. C. Haddon, Reader in Ethno- 
logy, with whom—since we go the same road—lI am often privileged 
to discuss anthropological issues, has helped me over several 
problems of folk-lore and primitive art. The Abbé Breuil cleared 
up for me the long-standing puzzle of concentric cup-marks ; and 
Mr M. C. Burkitt, Honorary Keeper of the Stone Implements in 
the Museum of Archaeology and of Ethnology, noted for me 
sundry specimens of engraved neolithic celts. 

One or two friends have undertaken special investigations on 
my behalf. Mr C. T. Seltman visited Delphoi and reported on 
the omphalés discovered there in 1913 by Monsieur F, Courby. 
Mr T. W. I. Bullock of Queens’ College, when travelling in Spain, 
saw the Museum authorities at Madrid and consulted them as to 
the character of the tablet from Tarragona. Miss E. M. Douglas 
(Mrs Van Buren) went from Rome to Nemi and interviewed the 
peasants with regard to local traditions of Diana’s tree, while 
Prof. P. J. Harding pursued the same quest in libraries at home 
and abroad. 

Others have favoured me with the narrative of their own 
journeyings and discoveries. Mr T. Fyfe describes in detail the 
little church on the summit of Mt Ide in Crete and the night that 
he spent there at a height of 8060 ft above sea-level. Mr C. W. 
Blegen contributes an interesting account of the finds that he 
made in 1923-1924 on Mt Hymettos, where he was able to locate 
with much probability the votive deposit of Zeus Ombrios. Mr R. 
Campbell Thompson sketches from personal observation the present 
condition of Eridu. 

Particular criticisms and suggestions have been communicated 
by a large number of scholars including Mr C. D. Bicknell 


Xil Preface 


Prof. R. C. Bosanquet, Mr F. M. Cornford, Mr G. G, Coulton, Prof. 
R. M. Dawkins, Sir J. G. Frazer, Dr J. Rendel Harris, Miss J. E. 
Harrison, Mr E. S. Hartland, Dr G. F. Hill, Prof. R. H. Kennett, 
Miss M. E. H. Lloyd, the Rev. H. E. Maddox, Mr A. D. Nock, 
Prof, A. C. Pearson, Mr T. Davies Pryce, Dr G. H. Rendall; 
Miss H. Richardson, Mr E. J. Seltman, Mr C. T. Seltman, and 
Mr C. M. Sleeman. I have been able to profit by them all. 

For illustrations too I am under heavy obligation to others. 
Prof. R. M. Dawkins allowed me to publish for the first time a 
highly important seal-stone from Melos, now in his possession. 
Mr C. D. Bicknell gave similar permission in the case of a gem 
belonging to the Lewis Collection at Corpus Christi College, 
Cambridge. Mr A. H. Smith furnished casts of several gems in 
the British Museum. Mr B. Staes, by sending a cast of the 
inscribed serpentine celt in the Central Museum at Athens, enabled 
me to produce the first really accurate rendering of that famous 
object. 

Mr S. C. Cockerell of the Fitzwilliam Museum has provided me 
with numerous casts of coins in the McClean and Leake Collections. 
Mr G. Macdonald supplied the cast of a rarity in the Hunterian 
Collection at Glasgow. But, above all, my numismatic friends at 
the British Museum, in particular Dr G. F. Hill and Mr E. S. G. 
Robinson, have for years past sent me a steady stream of well made 
casts, which—as the following text will abundantly prove—have 
served to throw valuable light on the Zeus-cults of the ancient 
world. The Keeper of the coins and his Assistants have also spared 
time to discuss with me many of the types. They have repeatedly 
verified points at my request, and in other ways have helped 
forward my project. To give but one instance, they reserved for me 
the right to publish the type of Zeus Spd/axos, which I had detected 
on a unique coin of Aphrodisias. In marshalling the evidence of 
coin-types I owe much also to the keen eyes and exact knowledge 
of my friend and former pupil Mr C. T. Seltman. He has procured 
for me rare specimens from foreign collectors or, where originals 
were not to be had, has obtained at least impressions of the coins 
that I needed. Moreover, he was the first to read the title of Zeus 
Akraios on a statér of Praisos and—a matter of greater moment— 
the first to determine the true sequence and significance of the 
Zeus-types at Olympia. 

A fine photograph of the profile of Zeus on Mt Juktas, taken by 
Mr A. Trevor-Battye, was sent me by Mr C. R. Haines. Photo- 


Preface Xiil 


graphs of statues and reliefs in marble or stone were supplied by 
Mr A. H. Smith of the British Museum, Mr S. C. Cockerell of the 
Fitzwilliam Museum, Mr L. D. Caskey of the Boston Museum of 
Fine Arts, and the Director of the Musée Lapidaire at Lyons. 
Mr W. H. Buckler with great generosity allowed me to publish a _ 
new and very interesting stele of Zeus Sadbdzzos, since presented by 
him to our national collection. Miss J. E. Harrison, on quitting 
Cambridge for Paris, put at my disposal her whole assemblage of 
photographs representing Greek votive reliefs and other religious 
monuments. Mr A. Munro, Fellow and Lecturer of Queens’ College, 
photographed for me an unpublished relief on the Palatine. Mr R. B. 
Fleming, Mr W. H. Hayles, and Mr W. Tams did me the like 
service in various collections and galleries. 

The Director of the French School at Athens was good enough 
to furnish me with three excellent photographs of the Delphic 
omphalés, here figured for the first time on English soil. And the 
Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies supplied me with a 
photograph of the cistern-mosaic on Mt Kynthos. 

Photographs of bronzes were kindly provided by Prof. P. N. Ure 
of University College, Reading, Mr K. Kourouniotes of the National 
Museum, Athens, and Miss G. M. A. Richter of the Metropolitan 
Museum of Art, New York. Others were taken for me in London 
by Mr W. H. Hayles and Mr R. B. Fleming, at Cambridge by the 
photographer to the University Press. 

Photographs of vases etc. in the British Museum were taken by 
Mr C. O. Waterhouse and Mr R. B. Fleming, in the Louvre by 
Monsieur A. Giraudon, in the Fitzwilliam Museum and in the Lewis 
Collection by Mr W. H. Hayles. 

Careful drawings of the Jupiter-column at Saverne, accompanied 
by minutely accurate measurements and a descriptive text, were 
sent me by Prof. L. Bachmeyer, Director of the local Museum. 

Permission to reproduce various photographs, plates, or figures 
was kindly granted by Messrs F. Boissonnas of Geneva, F. Bruckmann 
and Co. of Munich, Kouchakji Fréres of New York, and by Prof. C. 
Blinkenberg of Copenhagen, Sir A. J. Evans, Sir W. M. Ramsay, 
Mr C. Torr, Mr H. B. Walters. 

But I have yet to acknowledge help from other sources, with- 
out which the success of my venture would have been seriously 
imperilled. Miss E. T. Talbot of Saint Rhadegund’s House, 
Cambridge,—the artist who executed more than half the figures 
of Volume I—has again devoted her well-trained talent to the 


C. II. 


XiV Preface 


illustration of Volume II. During the past ten years she has 
produced no fewer than 626 designs, all carried out with the 
utmost care under my immediate supervision. They include line- 
drawings or sketches in black and white of 75 sculptures, 26 

bronzes, 12 objects in gold, silver, ivory, etc., 12 vases, 7 frescoes, 
" 14 maps, plans, diagrams, etc. 41 engraved gems, and 439 coins. 
In addition to this great output Miss Talbot has made a tentative 
reconstruction of all the figures in the east pediment of the Parthenon 
(pl. xxxiii) together with coloured drawings of the central slab from 
its eastern frieze (pl. xliv), of Pheidias’ chryselephantine Athena 
(pl. xlv), and of the same sculptor’s chryselephantine Zeus (pl. xlvi). 
The evidence that may be adduced in support of these restorations 
is held over to appear in Volume III. 

Slips for the two Indexes, which between them contain upwards 
of 30,000 entries and took well over a year to write, have again 
been arranged for me by my wife, to whose unfailing sympathy 
and encouragement this book owes more than its author can easily 
put into words. Towards the end, when the task began to try her 
eyes, she was assisted by Miss Michi Saito. 

In the complicated business of turning out proofs, paged proofs, 
revises, and clean sheets, not to mention zincotypes, half-tone 
blocks, collotypes, and lithographic plates, the Printer to the 
University and the Staff of the Pitt Press have for more than a 
decade done all that was humanly possible to produce a satis- 
factory result. To them no less than to others that I have named 
I ought to be grateful, and I am. 

In conclusion, I have once more to thank the Syndics of the 
University Press for the large-mindedness which led them to 
undertake the publication of an unremunerative work at a time 
when the cost of paper and printing was almost prohibitive. With 
much forbearance they twice extended my tether, and finally 
agreed to defray the expenses of a thousand pages for Volume II. 
In these days of enforced economy such generous treatment would 
be hard to parallel. If I have failed to reduce my subject within 
their liberal limits, that is due, not—I trust—to mere prolixity or 
diffuseness of style, but to the natural abundance of a great and 
vital theme. 


ARTHUR BERNARD COOK. 


19 CRANMER ROAD, CAMBRIDGE. 
22 July 1925. 


CONTENTS OF VOLUME II 


BARD CHAPTER, 1 
ZEUS AS GOD OF THE WEATHER 


PAGES 
$1. Zeus lightens, thunders, rains, etc. . : : : . . ia 
§ 2. The Dioseméa or ‘Zeus-sigh’ . ; : : : , . 4—I0 
§ 3. Zeus and the Lightning . : * : ; j : . 11—826 
(a) Lightning as a flame from the Burning Sky . : F : EE 
i. Zeus Keraunds : : P : : ‘ ; ; F II 
ii. Zeus Kataibdtes . ; : ; : ‘ ‘ ‘ 13 
(a) The altars of Zeus Katazbdtes . : ‘ ‘ : ‘ 15 
(8) The déata of Zeus Katatbdtes . : : ; és 21 
(y) The Didddetos or ‘Zeus-struck’ man in Elysian - 22 
(6) Death by Lightning as euthanasia. x : ; : 23 
(ce) The Tarentine cult of Zeus Katatbdtes : : : ‘ 29 
(€) Zeus Krataibates : ; : : : ‘ ae 
(n) Survivals of the foregoing fdetiets : . : : : 32 
iii. Zeus and the Sky-Pillar . ; : : : : . ; 36 
(a) The Elysian Way : : ; : : : ‘ ‘ 36 
(8) The Sky-Pillar in Italy. < : : ; - ; 45 
(y) The Sky-Pillar in the ‘Minoan’ area. , 2 ; F 47 
(6) The Zrminsil. : : ‘ : - : : 2 50 
(e) Iupiter-Columns . ; : : : : - . = 57 
(¢) The Column of Mayence . : : : > ‘ 93 
(7) Commemorative Columns . ; ‘ : : ; ; 100 
(6) The Trophy : - ; ‘ ‘ 108 
() .The Pillar of Light end the Spal Eadder ; ; ‘ : 114 
(«) The Sky-Pillar in Sardinia : : : : : : 140 
(A) Diana-Pillars. : : : ‘ : : : : 143 
(u) Agyzezs-Pillars . : ; ; ; : : : . 160 
(v) Omphalds and Pillar . : ‘ E : é : ; 166 
(€) The Delphic Omphalés. ; : ‘ : : - 169 
(0) The Delphic Tripod . : ‘ ; é : ; : 193 
(r) The Pythia as Bride of Apollon : ; ; : 207 
(p) The Pythia and the Caldron of meaheaes ; - - 210 
(o) Dionysos and the Caldron of Apotheosis . : ; : 218 
(r) Pythagoras as Apollon reborn . 4 3 ; : ; 221 
(v) Zeus at Delphoi . ‘ F : ; ‘ : P : 231 
(fp) Dionysos at Delphoi . : a : : 233 
(x) Dionysos displaced by Delon at eines - : ; 243 
(W) The stratification of Delphic Cults - : - : . 266 


XVI 


Contents 


iv. Zeus and Dionysos 


< 


(a) P. Kretschmer’s hypothesis 

(8) Criticism of P. Kretschmer’s Larpaetse 
(y) Dios and Dios Nysos : : 
(8) Papas and Attis 

(e) The Mother-goddess and ber pipediadh 
(¢) Attis in relation to Christianity 

(n) Attis in relation to the Dioskouroi 

(0) The Kdbeirot or Megélot Theoi 


7, The double Zeus 


(a) Zeus Didymaios 

(B) Zeus duplicated on a gem 

(y) Zeus Tetrdotos 

(8) The Celtic Janiform a68 

(e) Iupiter Amdisagrus and Iupiter Die 
(¢) Iupiter and Ianus in the Salian Hymn. 
(n) Ianus and Iupiter on coins 

(6) Ianus an older Iupiter . 

(c) Zan an older Zeus . 

(x) Ianus represented as Vault or eieey 
(A) The Triumphal Arch 

(w) The goddess under the Arch 

(v) The Zzgzll/um Sororium and lupiter Tigillus 
(€) The god under the Arch E : 
(0) Ianus bifrontal on coins 

(7) Janus bifrontal in ritual ; 
(p) The significance of Ianus’ double face . 
(7) The Sky-god’s hat 

(r) The differentiation of the Sky- ears faces 
(v) Virbius as Dianus . : ; : 
(~) Diana and the Oak 

(x) Artemis and the Oak : : 
(y) Diana’s tree at Nemi_. ; : ' 


iv. Zeus and the Twins . 


(a) The supports of the Sky personified 

(8) The Dioskouroi as the halves of the Sky 

(y) Twins as Children of the Sky 

(6) The Twins contrasted 

(e) Kastor and Polydeukes . 

(¢) Romulus and Remus 

(n) Zetes and Kalais : ; ‘ : ; 
(6) Zethos and Amphion . 5 : : 
(t) Herakles and Iphikles . 

(x) The effeminate Twin . ° : ‘ 

(A) Apollon and Artemis. : ; A 


Contents ‘Xvil 


PAGES 
(6) Lightning as a flash from an Eye . : : ; : é SOI 
(c) Lightning as a weapon . : ; : : TOM, ; 505 
i. The double axe in ‘ Minoan’ cult ‘ ; : ; : 513 
(a) The double axe in midair. : : ; 514 
(8) The double axe in relation to tree- or plants Latte : 516 
(y) The double axe in relation to columns or pillars . . 528 
(6) The double axe in relation to horns : : - - 535 
(ce) The deity of the double axe . : , : : 543 
(¢) The double axe and Zeus Ke weit : ‘ : : 559 
(n) The double axe and Zeus Ladrdyndos, etc. . : : 559 
(@) The double axe and the Labyrinth. : : : : 600 
(«) The double axe and the /abarum . ‘ : 601 
(«) The double axe and other forms of Zeus in ihe east ; _ 614 
(A) The double axe in the West . : : P : 617 
(4) The double axe carried by priests and oe : 620 
(v) The decoration of the double axe . : : : 4 635 
(€) The duplication of the double axe . 2 ; : : 652 
(0) The double axes of Tenedos . ; - : : : 654 
(w) The hafted axe asareligious symbol . : : ; 677 
(p) The axe and the sacred oak at Dodona. . 3 677 
(a) The sword and the sacred tree at Rhegion . : ; 680 
(r) The axes and the sacred oaks at Dotion J 2 : 683 
(v) The knife and the sacred oak at Phylake_ ‘ - 684. 
(p) Axe-blades and axe-hafts in the megalithic art of western 
Europe . - - : : - 2 ; : 685 
(x) The axes of Betelone : : ‘ : F : : 690 
(y) Superstitious practices with axes . : . ‘ ; 698 
ii. The spear of Zeus : : ; , : : : : 704 
ill. The sword of Zeus. : : . : : : : 712 
iv. The thunderbolt of Zeus. : : ; : : ; 722 
(a) Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt . ; z ; 722 
(8) Modifications in the shape of the thunderbolt : ; 764 
(y) The thunderbolt of Zeus and the trident of Poseidon . 786 
(5) The thunderbolt of Zeus and the fork of Hades . H 798 
(e) Zeus Keraunobdlos, Kerainios; Astrapaios, Astrépton 806 
(¢) Zeus Zbelsotirdos . e ; : : ! : : 817 
v. The whip of Zeus ; : : ‘ : , . : 824 
§4, Zeusandthe Thunder ..__.. . oF ANAS ee - 827—839 
(a) Thunder as a sound independent of Zeus. ; : : 827 
(6) Thunder as a sound uttered by Zeus. : ; , 3 829 
(c) Thunder as a sound caused by the Chariot of Zeus. ; 830 
(d) Zeus Brontaios, Brontén, Brontésios . : : : , 833 


Retrospect : : g ; : ; : : : : . 840—858 


XVH1 


APPENDIX A. 


2B PASM Rens 


ADDENDA . 
CORRIGENDA 


Kairos 


Contents 


PART 


The Mountain-Cults of Zeus . 
The Kyklops in Folk-Tales 
The Dioskouroi and Helene in modern Folk-Tales 1003—1019 


Orphic Theogonies and the Cosmogonic Eros 


Zeus K ¢észos 


Zeus Avgamémnon 


Zeus A mphidraos 


. Zeus Trephdnios or Trophdnios 
Zeus Asklepids . 

. Zeus Metlichios 

. Zeus Philios 


INDEX I (PERSONS, PLACES, FESTIVALS) 
INDEX II (SUBJECTS, AUTHORITIES) 


PAGES 
859—868 


868—987 
988—1003 


. IOIQ—I1054 
. 1054—1068 
. 1069—1070 
. I1070—1072 
. 1073—1076 
. 1076—I091 
. IOQI—I1160 
. I160—I2I10 


. I2II—1230 


1231 


- 1233—1347 
- 1348—1397 


Elst OF PLATES IN’ VOLUME VII 


PLATE 
I Amphora from Nola, now in the British Museum: Zeus in 
pursuit of Semele : 
II Kratér in the Louvre: Zeus in peat oF Sinele : 


III The Jupiter-Column of Saverne 
IV The Sculptured Column of Mayence 
Vv Amphora from Capua, now in the British Maske Orpheas 
attacked by Thracian women . : 
VI Polychrome fydria from Kyrenaike, now in the Pane 
Museum: scene of mystic incense-gathering (?) 
VIla,4 Two aryéballoi from Apollonia in Thrace, toes oe scenes 
of mystic incense-gathering (?). 
VIII Mural painting in Chaldon Church, Sieg the Sadan A 
Salvation . 
IX a—c Three views of the etribed ee ee fils by Fr. Gaui 
beneath the inner chapel of the Delphic temple 
x Relief from Phaleron: Xenokrateia and her boy supplicate 
Kephisos and the deities associated with him 
XI a Altar as represented on a coin of the Cretan community 
6 Small bronze altar resembling that on the Cretan coin . 
XII The Chigi base at Dresden, representing : 
(a) The rape of the Delphic tripod by Herakles 
(6) The dedication of a columnar tripod by the Py¢héa and the 
neokoros 
(c) The dedication of a torch by a priest and priestess 
XIII Aydria in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge: the Peliades 
about to carry out the instructions of Medeia . ; 
XIV Aydria from Vulci, now in the British Museum: Medeia 
renews the youth of Iason : é ce : 
XV _— Silver s¢mpulum from Cullera, representing Zeus as a swan 
with Leda, as a man with Semele, as Artemis with 
Kallisto, as an eagle with Ganymedes, etc. : 
XVI Polychrome Je/tke from Jiiz Oba: Zeus takes counsel sith 
Themis : . 
XVII Kvratér from Jiiz Oba: role visits Bikes: at 'Detshoi : 
XVIII AXvatér in the British Museum: Apollon honoured Es the 
followers of Dionysos at Delphoi 
XIX S¢é/e obtained by W. H. Buckler in Commnctoni: Bees 
Sabdztos on horseback, with altar, £ratér, and leafless 
tree, in which are eagle and snake, surmounted by votive 
inscription 


to face 
page 


24 f. 
24 
76 

g2 f. 


iteiolne 


124 


iS) 
foe) 
WN 


XX List of Plates 


PLATE 
XX Bifrontal head (Ianus ?) in the Palazzo Spada at Rome 
XXII Janiform aryballos, combining male and female Dionyeee 
heads 
XXII, 1—3 Janiform bust ord heme ohaety fepeeeetas Hiphe: 
lytos-Virbius decked with leaves of the guercus robur 
as consort of Diana. 
XXIII, 1—3 Janiform bust in the Capitoline Witeaue: pasate ae 
senting Hippolytos-Virbius decked with leaves of the 
guercus ilex as consort of Diana 5 
XXIV_ Etruscan mirror: the Dioskouroi with Leda (?) ae Eigen (?) 
between them . . 
XXV Hydria from Kyrenaike, now in 5 the British ease Apatiens 
riding on a swan, returns to Delphoi - 
XXVI_ Map showing the Western and Eastern Routes of the enhee 
borean Offerings in relation to early Trade-Routes for 
Amber i 
XXVII,a—d The painted limestone Bosra Ne. fou Hagin Tee 
near Phaistos . 
XXVIII Marble head of Zeus Labpiypdes (2), fone at eres and 
now in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts 
XXIX Etruscan mirror: the birth of Athena 
XXX _ Ionian (Cean?) amphora from Caere, now in the Lote: 
Zeus, in the Gigantomachia, fighting Agasthenes, Ephi- 
altes, and Hyperbios . 
XXXI_ Bronze statuette of Zeus in the Uffizi at ‘Flacenee : ¢ 
XXXII,1 Silver statuette from Macon, now in the British Museum: 
Zeus standing with a she-goat (Amaltheia ?) at his side 
2 Silver-gilt statuette from Macon, now in the British Museum : 
Zeus enthroned 


XXXIII The Eastern Pediment of the Parhanwe (Restated) in pocket at end 


to face 
page 
327 


39° 


392 f. 


392 f. 
432 


460 


498 


516f- 


597 
709 


712 
746 


746 


of Volume LT 


XXXIV Bronze statuette found in Hungary, now in the British 
Museum: Zeus enthroned with a sceptre in his right 
hand and a thunderbolt in his left . : 

XXXV_ Marble statuette of Zeus in the Musée Lapidaire at Lyons 

XXXVI Silver coins struck by the temple-mints at Olympia, showing 
various types of Thunderbolt . : : . 

XXXVII Terra-cotta group from Gnathia, now in the mee Museum: 
Zeus in a four-horse chariot . : 

XXXVIII The main design on a kratér from Canustuna, on now in the 
Museum at Naples: the doom of Dareios 

XXXIX Marble s¢é/e from Panormos near Kyzikos, now in the Britich 
Museum, with dedication to Zeus Ayfsistos and votive 
reliefs representing Zeus, Artemis(?), Apollon and a 
banquet 

XL The summit of Mount Givmapes 
XLI The Olympieion at Syracuse . 


756 
759 


780 
831 


852 Ff. 


881 
905 
915 


List of Plates XX1 


to face 

PLATE page 
XLII <Amphora from Vulci, now in the British Museum: Laios, 
Keleos, Kerberos, and aa stung by bees in the 

Dictaean Cave. - 929 
XLIII Mount Juktas, as seen from die west, Showing the prota a 

the ‘Pursuer’ (Ai@kras) . : : : : 939 


XLIV_ The central slab from the Eastern Frieze of the Paya on, 
representing the ritual Apotheosis of the King and Queen 
at Athens: 
(1) The relief as extant in the British Museum 
(2) The relief with flat coloration and metal accessories restored 1134f. 
XLV _ Pheidias’ gold-and-ivory statue of Athena Parthénos, re- 
stored from monumental and literary sources 7 pocketatend 


of Volume II 
XLVI Pheidias’ gold-and-ivory statue of Zeus Olympos, restored 
from literary and monumental sources . . tn pocket atend 
of Volume IL 
XLVII,a,4 The Chalice of Antioch. : , : : é « LRTOSE 


The design on the cover is from a bell-£vatér at Palermo (no. 2557: Overbeck 
Gall. her. Bildw. i. 527 f. pl. 22, 10, zd. Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 28, b. Atlas pl. 1, 
13), which represents Heos and Thetis supplicating Zeus and has recently been 
attributed to the ‘Oreithyia painter’ (J. D. Beazley Attische Vasenmaler des 
rotigurigen Stils Tiibingen 1925 p. 293 no. 3). I am indebted for the necessary 
photograph to the courtesy of Profs G. M. Columba and E. Gabrici. 











i 
{ 


* 


ABBREVIATIONS 


This List of Abbreviations has been drawn up in accordance with two principles. 
On the one hand, the names of Authors have not been shortened, save by the omission 
of their initials. On the other hand, the titles of Books and Periodicals have been cut 
down, but not—it is hoped—beyond the limits of recognizability. 

The customary abbreviations of classical writers and their works (for which see 
Vol. 1 p. xiv) are not here included. 


Abn, d. bayer. Akad. Philos.-philol. Classe= Abhandlungen der philosophisch-philologischen 
Klasse der kiniglich bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften Miinchen 1835— : 

Abn. d. berl. Akad. Phil.-hist. Classe = Abhandlungen der kiniglich preussischen Akademie 
der Wissenschaften Philosophisch-historische Classe Berlin 1804— . 

Abh. d. gott. Gesellsch. d. Wass. Phil.-hist. Classe=Abhandlungen der kiniglichen 
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Géttingen Historisch-philologische Klasse Gét- 
tingen 1838— 

Abh. d. siichs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe=Adbhandlungen der philologisch- 
historischen Klasse der kiniglich sichsischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften Leipzig 
1850— - 

Amelung Sculpt. Vatic.=W. Amelung Die Sculpturen des Vaticanischen Museums i ii 
Berlin 1903, 1908. 

Am. Journ. Arch.=American Journal of Archaeology Baltimore 1885— » Second 
Series Norwood, Mass. 1897— 

Am. Journ. Philol.= American Journal a Philology Baltimore 1880— 

Ann. Arch. Anthr.= Annals of Archaeology and Anthropology Liverpool 1908— 

Ann. Brit. Sch, Ath.= The Annual of the British School at Athens London 1894-5— 

Ann, d. Inst.=Annali dell’ Instituto di Corrispondenza Archeologica Roma 1829— 
1885. 

_ Anson Mum. Gr.=L. Anson Mumismata Graeca Plates and Index London rgto, Text 
i—vi London 1911—1916. 

Ant. Denkm.=Antike Denkmaeler herausgegeben vom Kaiserlich Deutschen Archaeo- 
logischen Institut Berlin 1886— 

Ant. du Bosph. Cimm.= Antiquités du Bosphore Cimmérien conservées au Musée Impérial 
de l’ Ermitage i ii St.-Pétersbourg 1854 with Atlas of pls. 

Ant. Miinz. Berlin= Konigliche Museen zu Berlin: Beschreibung der antiken Miinzen 
i—iii Berlin 1888—1894. 

Ant. Miinz. Nord-Griechenlands = Die antiken Miinzen Nord-Griechenlands unter Leitung 
von F, Imhoof-Blumer herausgegeben von der kgl. Akademie der Wissenschaften. 

i. (Dacien und Moesien) bearbeitet von B. Pick. Halbband i von B. Pick. Berlin 
1898. Halbband ii, Abteilung 1 von B. Pick und K. Regling. Berlin r1gro. 

ii. (Thrakien) bearbeitet von F. Miinzer und M. L. Strack. Teil i, Heft 1. Berlin 
IgI2. 

iii. (Makedonia und Paionia) bearbeitet von H. Gaebler. Abteilung 1. Berlin 1906. 

Ant. Skulpt. Berlin= Konigliche Museen zu Berlin: Beschreibung der antiken Skulpturen 
mit Ausschluss der pergamenischen Funadsticke Berlin 1891. 

Arch, Anz. See Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. [nst. 

Arch.-ep. Mitth.= Archaeologisch-epigraphische Mittheilungen aus Oesterreich-Ungarn 
Wien 1877—1897 Register Wien 1902. 


XX1V Abbreviations 


Arch. Zeit.= Archiologische Zeitung herausgegeben vom Archaologischen Institut des 
Deutschen Reichs Berlin.1843—1885. 

"Apx. Aedr. =’ Apxatodoyxov AeXrlov Tod ‘Yroupyelou Tay ExkAynovacrixay Kal ris Anwoolas 
“Exradevcews Athens 1915— 

"Apx. Ed. See’Ed. ’Apx.- 

Archiv f. Rel. = Archiv fiir Religionswissenschaft Leipzig 1898— “ 

Ath. Mitth.= Mittheilungen des haiserlich deutschen archaeologischen Instituts: athenische 
Abthetlung Athen 1876— 

Babelon Cat. Camées de la Bibl. Nat.=E. Babelon Catalogue des Camées antiques et 
modernes de la Bibliotheque Nationale Paris 1897. 

Babelon Monn. gr. rom.=E. Babelon 7raité des monnaies grecgues et romaines 1 Théorie 
et doctrine i Paris rgor, II Description historique i—iii Paris 1907, 1910, 1914 with 
Atlas of pls. ; 

Babelon Monn. rép. rom.=¥E. Babelon Description historique et chronologique des mon- 
nates de la république romaine vulgairement appelées monnates consulaires i ii Paris 
1885, 1886. 

Babelon—Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. Nat.=¥E. Babelon et J. A. Blanchet Cata- 
logue des bronzes antiques de la Bibliothique Nationale Paris 1895. 

Bartoli—Bellori Admir. Rom. ant.=Admtranda Romanarum antiquitatum ac veteris 
sculpturae vestigia, a Petro Sancti Bartolo delineata incisa. Notis Jo. Petri Bellorii 
iliustrata. Romae 1693. 

Baumeister Dexkm.=A. Baumeister Denkmaler des klassischen Altertums zur Erlauterung 
des Lebens der Griechen und Romer in Religion, Kunst und Sitte i—iii Miinchen und 
Leipzig 1885—1888. 

Bekker anecd. =1. Bekker Anecdota Graeca i—iii Berolini 1814—1821. 

Ber. stichs. Gesellsch. d. Wass. Phil.-hist. Classe= Berichte wiber die Verhandlungen 
der kiniglich sdchsischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig Philologisch- 
historische Classe Leipzig 1848— ¢ 

Berl. philol. Woch. = Berliner philologische Wochenschrift Berlin 1885— : 

Boetticher Baumkultus=C. Boetticher Der Baumkultus der Hellenen nach den gottes- 
dienstlichen Gebrauchen und den tiberlieferten Bildwerken dargestellt Berlin 1856. 

Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr.=E. Boisacq Dictionnaire étymologique de la 
langue grecque étudiée dans ses rapports avec les autres langues indo-européennes 
Heidelberg et Paris 1907—1916. 

Boissonade azecd.=J. F. Boissonade Anecdota Graeca i—v Parisiis 1829—1833. 

Bonner Jahrbiicher= Bonner Jahrbiicher (Continuation of the Jahrbiicher des Vereins 
von Alterthumsfreunden im Rheinlande) Bonn 1895— : 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes=H. B. Walters Catalogue of the Bronzes, Greek, Roman, and 
Etruscan, in the Department of Greek and Roman Antiquities, British Museum 
London 1899. 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Byz. Coins=W. Wroth Catalogue of the Imperial Byzantine Coins in 
the British Museum i ii London 1908. 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins=A Catalogue of the Greek Coins in the British Museum London 
1873— : 

ftaly 1873 by R.S. Poole; Sicily 1876 by B. V. Head, P. Gardner, R. S. Poole; 
The Tauric Chersonese, Sarmatia, Dacia, Moesia, Thrace, &c. 1877 by B. V. 
Head, P. Gardner; Seleucid Kings of Syria 1878 by P. Gardner; Macedonia, 
Ltc. 1879 by B. V. Head; The Ptolemies, Kings of Egypt 1883 by R. S. Poole; 
Thessaly to Aetolia 1883 by P. Gardner; Central Greece 1884 by B. V. Head ; 
Greek and Scythic Kings of Bactria and India 1886 by P. Gardner; Crete and 
the Aegean Islands 1886 by W. Wroth; Pelofonnesus 1887 by P. Gardner ; 
Aittica—Megaris—Aegina 1888 by B. V. Head; Corinth, Colonies of Corinth, 
Etc. 1889 by B. V. Head; Pontus, Paphlagonia, Bithynia, and the Kingdom 
of Bosporus 1889 by W. Wroth; Alexandria and the Nomes 1892 by R. S. 
Poole; Zondéa 1892 by B. V. Head; AZysia 1892 by W. Wroth; 7Zroas, Aeolis, 


Abbreviations XXV 


and Lesbos 1894 by W. Wroth; Caria, Cos, Rhodes, &c. 1897 by B. V. Head; 
Lycia, Pamphylia, and Pisidia 1897 by G. F. Hill; Galatia, Cappadocia, and 
Syria 1899 by W. Wroth; Lycaonta, sauria, and Cilicia 1900 by G. F. Hill; 
Lydia 1901 by B. V. Head; Parthia 1903 by W. Wroth; Cyprus 1904 by 
G. F. Hill; Phrygia 1906 by B. V. Head; Phoenicia tg10 by G. F. Hill; 
Palestine 1914 by G. F. Hill; Arabia Mesopotamia and Persia 1922 by 
G. F. Hill. 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Gems=A. H. Smith A Catalogue of Engraved Gems in the British 
Museum (Department of Greek and Roman Antiquities) London 1888. 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Jewellery=¥.H. Marshall Catalogue of the Jewellery, Greek, Etruscan, 
and Roman, in the Departments of Antiquities, British Museum London 1911. 
Brit. Mus. Cat. Lamps=H. B. Walters Catalogue of the Greek and Roman Lamps in 

the British Museum London 1914. 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Medallions=H. A. Grueber Roman Medallions in the British Museum 
London 1874. 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. =H. A. Grueber Coins of the Roman Republic in the 
British Museum i—iii London 1910. 

Brit. Mus. Cat, Rom. Coins Emp.=H. Mattingly Cozns of the Roman Empire in the 
British Museum i— London 1923— : 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Sculpture=A. H. Smith A Catalogue of Sculpture in the Department of 
Greek and Roman Antiquities, British Museum i—iii London 1892—1904. 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Silver Plate=H. B. Walters Catalogue of the Silver Plate (Greek, 
Etruscan and Roman) in the British Museum London 1921. 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Terracottas=H. B. Walters Catalogue of the Terracottas in the Depart- 
ment of Greek and Roman Antiquities, British Museum London 1903. 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases=Catalogue of the Greek and Etruscan Vases in the British 
Museum London 1893— : 

i. 1 Prehistoric Aegean Pottery 1925 by E. J. Forsdyke; i. 2 Cypriote, /talian, 
and Etruscan Pottery 1912 by H. B. Walters; ii Black-figured Vases 1893 by 
H. B. Walters; ili Vases of the Finest Period 1896 by C. H. Smith; iv Vases 
of the Latest Period 1896 by H. B. Walters. 

Brit. Mus. Guide Gk. Rom. Life= british Museum. Department of Greek and Roman 
Antiquities. A Guide to the Exhibition illustrating Greek and Roman Life. London 
1908. . 

Brit. Mus. Marbles=A Description of the Collection of Ancient Marbles in the British 
Museum ; with engravings Parts i—xi London 1812—1861. 

Bruchmann “77th. deor.=C. F. H. Bruchmann Zfitheta deorum quae apud poetas 
Graecos leguntur Lipsiae 1893. 

Brunn—Bruckmann Denkm. der gr. und rim. Sculpt.=Denkmiiler griechischer und 
rimischer Sculptur unter Leitung von H. Brunn herausgegeben von F. Bruckmann 
1. Serie (Tafeln r—500) Miinchen 1888—1900; Brunn—Bruckmann’s Denkmaler 
griechischer und rimischer Sculptur fortgefihrt und mit erlauternden Texten versehen 
von P. Arndt i (Tafeln 501—550) Miinchen 1go2, ii (Tafeln 551—600) Miinchen 
1906, iii (Tafeln 601—650) Miinchen 1912, iv (Tafeln 651— ) Miinchen —. 

Bull. Arch. Nap.= Bullettino archeologico Napoletano i—vi Napoli 1843--1848, Nuova 
Serie i—viii Napoli 1853—1863. 

Bull. Comm. Arch. Comun. di Roma=Bullettino della Commissione Archeologica Munt- 
cifale Roma 1872—1876 continued as Bullettino della Commisstone Archeologica 
Comunale di Roma Roma 1877— ‘ 

Bull. Corr. Hell.= Bulletin de correspondance hellénigue Paris 1877— . 

Bull. d. Inst. = Bullettino dell? Instituto di Corrispondenza Archeologica Roma 1829—1885. 

Carelli Mum. Jt. vet. =Francisci Carellii Mumorum Italiae veteris tabulas CC/TI, edidit 
Ccelestinus Cavedonius. Accesserunt Francisci Carellii numorum quos ipse collegit 
descriptio F. M. Avellinii in eam adnotationes. Lipsiae 1850. 


XXVIli Abbreviations 


Denkschr. d. Akad. Wien=Denkschriften der haiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften. 
Philosophisch-historische Classe. Wien 1850— 

De Ridder Cat. Bronzes de la coll. de Clercg = Collection de Clercq. Catalogue publié par 
les soins de l’Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres et sous la direction de Mm. 
de Vogiié, E. Babelon, E. Pottier. Tome iii Les Bronzes par A. de Ridder Paris 1905. 

De Ridder Cat. Vases de la Bibl. Nat.= Catalogue des Vases Peints de la Bibliotheque 
Nationale par A. de Ridder iii Paris 1901, 1902. 

Dessau /uscr. Lat. sel. =H. Dessau Jnscriptiones Latinae selectae i, ii. 1, ii. 2, iii. 1, ill. 2 
Berolini 1892, 1902, 1906, 1914, 1916. 

De Visser De Gr. diis non ref. spec. hum.=M. W. de Visser De Graecorum diis non 
referentibus spectem humanam Lugduni-Batavorum 1900. 

De Vit Lat. Lex. = Totius Latinitatis Lexicon opera et studio Aegidii Forcellini lucu- 
bratum et in hac editione post tertiam auctam et emendatam a Josepho Furlanetto... 
novo ordine digestum amplissime auctum atque emendatum cura et studio Doct. 
Vincentii de-Vit... i—vi Prati 1858—1879. 

De Vit Onomasticon=Totius Latinitatis Onomasticon opera et studio Doct. Vincentii 
de-Vit lucubratum i—iv Prati 1859—1887. 

Dittenberger Orient. Gr. inscr. sel.=Orientis Graeci inscriptiones selectae. Supple- 
mentum Sylloges inscriptionum Graecarum, ed. Wilhelmus Dittenberger i ii 
Lipsiae 1903, 1905. 

Dittenberger Syl. inser. Gr.2> =Sylloge inscriptionum Graecarum, iterum ed. Guilelmus 
Dittenberger i—iii Lipsiae 1898, 1900, rgor, tertium ed. Guilelmus Dittenberger 
i—ili, iv. 1, iv. 2 Lipsiae 1915, £917, 1920, 1921, 1924. 

Ducange Gloss. med. et inf. Lat. =C. du Fresne Du Cange Glossarium medic et infime 
Latinitatzs. Editio nova a Léopold Favre i—x Niort 1883—1887. 

Durm Baukunst d. Etrusk2= Handbuch der Architektur. Unter Mitwirkung von 
J. Durm und H. Ende herausgegeben von E. Schmitt. Zweiter Teil: Die Baustile. 
2 Band: Die Baukunst der Etrusker. Die Baukunst der Romer. Von J. Durm. 
Zweite Auflage. Stuttgart 1905. 

Durm Baukunst d. Gr.» *= Handbuch der Architektur, Unter Mitwirkung von 
Fachgenossen herausgegeben von J. Durm, H. Ende, E. Schmitt und H. Wagner. 
Zweiter Theil: Die Baustile. 1 Band: Die Baukunst der Griechen. Von J. Durm. 
Zweite Auflage. Darmstadt 1892, Dritte Auflage. Leipzig 1910. 

Durm Baukunst d. Rim.2= Handbuch der Architektur. Unter Mitwirkung von J. Durm 
und H. Ende herausgegeben von E. Schmitt. Zweiter Teil: Die Baustile. 2 Band: 
Die Baukunst der Etrusker. Die Baukunst der Rimer. Von J. Durm. Zweite 
Auflage. Stuttgart 1905. 

Eckhel Doctr. num. vet.2= Doctrina numorum veterum conscripta a Iosepho Eckhel i 
Vindobonae 1792, ii—viii Editio secunda Vindobonae 1839, 1828, Addendaad Eckhelii 
Doctrinam numorum veterum ex eiusdem autographo postumo Vindobonae 1826. 

Einzelaufnahmen = Photographische Einzelaufnahmen antiker Sculpturen Serien zur 
Vorbereitung eines Corpus Statuarum Unter Mitwirkung von Fachgenossen heraus- 
gegeben von Paul Arndt und Walther Amelung Miinchen 1893— Register zu 
Serie 1—s5 Miinchen rg11, 6 Miinchen 1912, 7 Miinchen 1913, 8 Miinchen r1gr4, 
9 Miinchen 1920. 

"Ed. “Apx.='Egypepis “Apxatodoyix éxdidouevn wd tis év “A@jnvas ’“ApxacodoyiKAs 
‘Eratpelas év ’A@jvats 1837—1843, 1852—1860, 1862, 1883—I909 continued as 
*"Apxatodoyixh "Eqnuepis éxdwoudvn tro rhs “Apxatodoyixfs “Eraipelas ’AOHvnor 
Iglo— 

LEiphem. epigr. eis epigraphica, Corporis inscriptionum Latinarum supplementum, 
edita jussu Instituti archaeologici Romani Romae 1872— 

Epic. Gr. frag. =Epicorum Graecorum Fragmenta. Collegit disposuit commentarium 
criticum adiecit Godofredus Kinkel i Lipsiae 1877. 

Espérandieu Bas-reliefs de la Gaule Rom. =E, Espérandieu Recuetl général des bas-reliefs 
de la Gaule Romaine. 


Abbreviations XX1X 


i (Alpes Maritimes. Alpes Cottiennes. Gaule Narbonnaise) Paris 1907. ii (Aqui- 
taine) Paris 1908. iii (Lyonnaise 1) Paris rg1o. iv (Lyonnaise 2) Paris rgrr. 
v (Belgique r) Paris 1913. vi (Belgique 2) Paris 1915. 

Farnell Cults of Gk. States=L. R. Farnell The Cults of the Greek States i—v Oxford 
1896—1909. 

Folk-Lore=Folk-Lore. Transactions of the Folk-Lore Society. A quarterly review of 
Myth, Tradition, Institution, and Custom. [Incorporating Zhe Archeological 
Review and The Folk-Lore Journal.| London 1890— 

Forrer Reallex.= Reallexikon der prihistorischen, klassischen und friihchristlichen Alter- 
ttimer von Dr. Robert Forrer Berlin & Stuttgart (1907). 

Fouilles de Delphes=Ecole francaise @Athénes. Fouilles de Deiphes (1892—1903) 
Exécutées par ordre du Gouvernement francais et publiées sous la direction de 
M. Théophile Homolle. 

ii Topographie et Architecture. Fasc. 1, 2. La Terrasse du Temple par M. F. 
Courby Paris 1915, 1921. Fasc. 3. Le Sanctuaire d’Athéna Pronaia. Les 
Temples de tuf par R. Demangel. Les deux Trésors par G. Daux Paris 1923. 
Relevés et Restaurations par M. Albert Tournaire. Fasc. 1. Paris 1902. La 
Terrasse du Temple. Fasc. 1. Relevés et Restaurations par M. H. Lacoste 
Paris 1920. Le Sanctuaire d’Athéna Pronaia. Fasc. 1. Relevés et Restaura- 
tions par M. Y. Fomine et M. W. Lauritzen Paris 1925. 

iii Epigraphie. Texte. Fasc. 1 par M. Emile Bourguet Paris Igi0, Igrt, 
Fasc. 2 par M. G. Colin Paris 1909, 1911, 1912, 1913, Fasc. 3 par M. G. Colin 
Paris Igtt. 

iv Monuments Figurés—Sculpture. Texte par M. Th. Homolle Fasc. 1 Paris 
1909, Planches Fasc. 2 Paris 1905, 1906. 

v Monuments Figurés—Petits Bronzes, Terres Cuites, Antiquités Diverses. Texte 
par M. P. Perdrizet Fasc. 1—3 Paris 1906, 1908, 1908, Planches Fasc. 1—3 
Paris 1905, 1905, Igo9g. 

Frag. com. Gr.=Fragmenta comicorum Graecorum. Collegit et disposuit Augustus 
Meineke i—iv Berolini 1839—1841, v Index. Composuit Henricus Iacobi Berolini 
1857. 

Frag. hist. Gr.= Fragmenta histericorum Graecorum. Collegit, disposuit, notis et prolego- 
menis illustravit, indicibus instruxit Carolus Miillerus i—v Parisiis 1885, 1878, 1883, 
1885, 1883. 

Frazer Belief in Immortality =(Sir) J. G. Frazer The Belief in Immortality and the 
Worship of the Dead i—iii London 1913, 1922, 1924. 

Frazer Golden Bough®=(Sir) J. G. Frazer The Golden Bough A Study in Magic and 
Religion. Second edition, revised and enlarged i—iii London rgoo. 

Frazer Golden Bough*=(Sir) J. G. Frazer The Golden Bough A Study in Magic and 
Religion. Third edition. 

Part I. The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings iii London rgrt. 

Part II. Zaboo and the Perils of the Soul London 1911. 

Part III. Zhe Dying God London rgtt. 

Part IV. Adonis Attis Osiris Studies in the History of Oriental Religion. Second 

edition, revised and enlarged London 1907 (Third edition, revised 
and enlarged i ii London 1914). 

Part V. Spirits of the Corn and of the Wildi ii London 1912. 

Part VI. The Scapegoat London 1913. 

Part VII. Balder the Beautiful The Fire-festivals of Europe and the Doctrine of 

the External Soul i ii London 1913. 

Bibliography and General Index London 1915. 

Frazer Lect. Hist, Kingship=(Sir) J. G. Frazer Lectures on the Early History of the 
Kingship London 1905. 

Frazer Pausanias=Pausanias’s Description of Greece translated with a commentary by 
(Sir) J. G. Frazer i—vi London 1898. 


Col: é 


XXX Abbreviations 


Friederichs—Wolters Gipsabgtisse= Konigliche Museen 2zu Berlin. Die Gipsabsiisse 
antiker Bildwerke in historischer Folge erklart. Bausteine zur Geschichte der 
griechisch-romischen Plastik von Carl Friederichs neu bearbeitet von Paul Wolters 
Berlin 1885. 

Frohner J/éd. emp. rom.= Numismatique Antique. Les médatllons de [empire romain 
depuis le régne d’Auguste jusqu’a Priscus Attale par W. Froehner Paris 1878. 

Frohner Sculpt. du Louvre= Musées Nationaux. Notice de la sculpture antique du 
Musée national du Louvre par W. Frohner i Paris s.a. 

Furtwangler Ant. Gemmen= Die antiken Gemmen Geschichte der Steinschneidekunst im 
klassischen Altertum von Adolf Furtwangler i Tafeln ii Beschreibung und 
Erklarung der Tafeln iii Geschichte der Steinschneidekunst im klassischen Altertum 
Leipzig Berlin 1900. 

Furtwangler Geschnitt. Steine Berlin= Konigliche Museen zu Berlin. Beschreibung der 
geschnittenen Steine im Antiguarium von Adolf Furtwangler Berlin 1896. 

Furtwangler Glyptothek zu Miinchen= Beschreibung der Glyptothek Konig Ludwig's TJ. 
zu Miinchen von A. Furtwangler Miinchen 1900 (Zweite Auflage, besorgt von 
P. Wolters Miinchen rgro). 

Furtwangler AZasterpieces of Gk. Sculpt.= Masterpieces of Greek Sculpture A Series of 
Essays on the History of Art by Adolf Furtwangler edited by Eugénie Sellers 
London 1895. 

Furtwangler Samml. Sabouroff= La Collection Sabouroff Monuments de Vart grec 
publiés par Adolphe Furtweengler i 11 Berlin 1883—1887. 

Furtwangler Statwenkopieen = Ueber Statuenkopieen im Alterthum von Adolf Furtwangler. 
Erster Theil (Aus den Abhandlungen der k. bayer. Akademie der Wiss. 1. Cl. xx. 
Bd. 111. Abth.). Miinchen 1896. 

Furtwangler Vasensamml. Lerlin=Konigliche Museen zu Berlin. Beschreibung der 
Vasensammlung im Antiguarium von Adolf Furtwangler i ii Berlin 1885. 

Furtwangler—Reichhold (—Hauser) Gr. Vasenmalerei= Griechische Vasenmaleret 
Auswahl hervorragender Vasenbilder mit Unterstiitzung aus dem Thereianos-Fonds 
der kgl. bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften herausgegeben von A. Furtwangler 
und K. Reichhold Serie 1 Text und Tafeln Miinchen rg00—-1g04, Serie 11 nach 
Furtwangler’s Tode fortgefiihrt von Friedrich Hauser Text und Tafeln Miinchen 
1905—1909, Serie 111 von Friedrich Hauser und Ernst Buschor mit Beitragen von 
Robert Zahn Text und Tafeln Miinchen 1g10o— 

E. A. Gardner Cat. Vases Cambridge=A Catalogue of ihe Greek Vases in the Fitzwilliam 
Museum Cambridge by Ernest Arthur Gardner Cambridge 1897. 

P. Gardner Cat. Vases Oxford= Museum Oxontense. Catalogue of the Greek Vases in 
the Ashmolean Museum by Percy Gardner Oxford 1893. 

P. Gardner 7yfes of Gk. Coins= The Types of Greek Coins An archaeological essay by 
Percy Gardner Cambridge 1883. 

Garrucci Mon. Zt. ant.=L2 monete dell’ Italia antica Raccolta generale del P. Raffaele 
Garrucci Parte prima: monete fuse. Parte seconda: monete coniate. Roma 1885. 

Gaz. er Gazette Archéologigue Recueil de monuments pour servir a la connaissance 

a Vhistoire de l’art antique publié par les soins de He de Witte...et Francois 
Se mant... Paris 1875—1889. 

General-Karte von Griechenland=General-Karte des Konigreiches Griechenland im 
Masse 1:300 000 der Natur. Nach Berichtigungs-Daten des k. griech. Oberst- 
lieutenants J. Kokides und revidirt von Dr. H. Kiepert. Bearbeitet und heraus- 
gegeben vom K. K. Militar-Geographischen Institute in Wien. 13 Sheets with 
Index Wien 1885. 

Geogr. Gr. min.=Geographi Graci minores. FE codicibus recognovit, prolegomenis, 
annotatione, indicibus instruxit, tabulis zeri incisis illustravit Carolus Miillerus. 
i ii Parisiis 1882. 

Gerhard Ant. Bildw.=Antike Bildwerke zum ersten male bekannt gemacht von Eduard 
Gerhard Miinchen Stuttgard & Tiibingen (1827—1844). Text zu Eduard Gerhard’s 


Abbreviations XXX1 


Antiken Bildwerken. In drei Lieferungen. Miinchen, Stuttgart und Tiibingen 
1828—1844. 

Gerhard Awserl. Vasenb.= Auserlesene griechische Vasenbilder, hauptsachlich etruskischen 
Fundorts. Herausgegeben von Eduard Gerhard i—iv Berlin 1840—1858, 

Gerhard Etr. Spiegel= Etruskische Spiegel herausgegeben von Eduard Gerhard Text und 
Tafeln i—iv Berlin 1839—1867, im Auftrage des kaiserlich deutschen Archiolog- 
ischen Instituts bearbeitet von A. Kliigmann und G. Korte v Berlin 1884—1897. 

Gerhard Gr. Myth. = Griechische Mythologie von Eduard Gerhard i ii Berlin 1854, 1855. 

Gilbert Gr. Gétterl.=Griechische Gotterlehre in ihren Grundziigen dargestellt von Otto 
Gilbert Leipzig 1898. 

Gnecchi MWedagl. Rom.=Francesco Gnecchi Z medaglioni Romani i Oro ed argento, 
ii Bronzo gran modulo, iii Bronzo moduli minori, Medaglioni del senato Milano IgI2. 

Gott. gel. Anz.=Gottingische gelehrte Anzeigen Gottingen 1753— 

Graef Ant. Vasen Athen=Katserlich deutsches Archiologisches Institut. Die antiken 
Vasen von der Akropolis zu Athen unter Mitwirkung von Paul Hartwig Paul Wolters 
Robert Zahn veroffentlicht von Botho Graef Text und Tafeln i—iii Berlin 1909, 
IQII, (914. 

Grimm—Thayer Gk-Eng. Lex. of the New Test.=A Greek-English Lexikon of the New 
Testament being Grimm’s Wilke’s Clavis Novi Testamenti translated revised and 
enlarged by Joseph Henry Thayer Edinburgh 1888. 

Gruppe Cult. Myth. orient. Rel. = Die griechischen Culte und Mythen in ihren Bezieh- 
ungen zu den orientalischen Religionen von Otto Gruppe i Einleitung Leipzig 1887. 

Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel.=Griechische Mythologie und Religionsgeschichte (Handbuch der 
Rlasstschen Altertums-wissenschaft herausgegeben von Dr. Iwan von Miiller v. Band, 
2. Abteilung) von Dr. O. Gruppe i 11 Miinchen rgo6. 

Gruppe Ath. Lit. 1908=Die mythologische Literatur aus den Jahren 1898—1905 
(Jahresbericht fiir Altertumswissenschaft. Suppl. 1907). Von O. Gruppe Leipzig 
1908. 

Gruppe Mth. Lit. 1921 = Bericht viber die Literatur sur antiken Mythologie und Religions- 
geschichte aus den Jahren 1906—1917 (/ahresbericht ftir Altertumswissenschaft. 
Suppl. 1921). Von O. Gruppe Leipzig rg2r. 

Gruter Zuscr. ant. tot. orb. Rom.=Inscriptiones antiquae totius orbis Romanz in absolut- 
issimum corpus redactae olim auspiciis Iosephi Scaligeri et Marci Velseri industria 
autem et diligentia Iani Gruteri: nunc curis secundis ejusdem Gruteri et notis 
Marquardi Gudii emendatae et tabulis aeneis a Boissardo confectis illustratae ; denuo 
cura viri summi Ioannis Georgii Graevii recensitae i—iv Amstelaedami 1707. 

Guida del Mus. Napoli= Guida tllustrata del Museo Nazionale di Napoli approvata dal 
Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione compilata da D. Bassi, E. Gabrici, L. Mariani, 
O. Marucchi, G. Patroni, G. de Petra, A. Sogliano per cura di A. Ruesch Napoli 
1908. 

Harrison AZyth. Mon. Anc. Ath. = Mythology & Monuments of Ancient Athens being a 
translation of a portion of the ‘Attica’ of Pausanias by Margaret de G. Verrall with 
Introductory Essay and Archeological Commentary by Jane E. Harrison London 1890. 

Harrison Proleg. Gk. Rel.2=Prolegomena to the Study of Greek Religion by Jane Ellen 
Harrison Second edition Cambridge 1908. 

Harrison Themis= Themis A Study of the Social Origins of Greek Religion by Jane 
Ellen Harrison with an Excursus on the Ritual Forms preserved in Greek Tragedy 
by Professor Gilbert Murray and a Chapter on the Origin of the Olympic Games by 
Mr F. M. Cornford Cambridge 1912. 

Head Cozns of the Anctents=Synopsis of the Contents of the British Museum. Depart- 
ment of Coins and Medals. A Guide to the principal gold and silver Coins of the 
Ancients, from circ. B.C. 700 to A.D. 1. by Barclay V. Head Second edition London 1881. 

Head Hist. num.'>*= Historia numorum A Manual of Greek Numismatics by Barclay 
V. Head Oxford 1887, New and enlarged edition by Barclay V. Head assisted by 
G. F. Hill, George Macdonald, and W. Wroth Oxford rgrt. 

€2 


XXXII Abbreviations 


Helbig Guide Class. Ant. Rome=Guide to the Public Collections of Classical Antiquities 
in Rome by Wolfgang Helbig translated from the German by James F. and Findlay 
Muirhead i ii Leipsic 1895, 1896. 

Helbig Wandgem. Camp.= Wandgemalde der vom Vesuv verschiitteten Stadte Campaniens 
beschrieben von Wolfgang Helbig. Nebst einer Abhandlung iiber die antiken 
Wandmalereien in technischer Beziehung von Otto Donner. Leipzig 1868. 

Hermathena= Hermathena, a Series of Papers on Literature, Science, and Philosophy, 
by Members of Trinity College, Dublin. Dublin—London 1874— 

Hermes = Hermes Zeitschrift fiir classische Philologie Berlin 1866— 

Herrmann Denkm. ad. Malerei= Denkmaler der Malerei des Altertums herausgegeben von 
Paul Herrmann Miinchen 1906— 

Heydemann Vasensamml. Neapel= Die Vasensammlungen des Museo Nazionale zu Neapel 
beschrieben von H. Heydemann Berlin 1872. 

Hist. Rom. frag. =Historicorum Romanorum fragmenta collegit disposuit recensuit 
Hermannus Peter Lipsiae 1883. 

Hoops Reallex. = Reallextkon der Germanischen Altertumskunde unter Mitwirkung zahl- 
reicher Fachgelehrten herausgegeben von Johannes Hoops i—iv Strassburg 
IQII—I9QIQ. 

Hoppin Alack-fig. Vases=J. C. Hoppin A Handbook of Greek Black-figured Vases with 
a chapter on the Red-figured Southern Italian Vases Paris 1924. 

Hoppin Red-fig. Vases=J.C. Hoppin A Handbook of Attic Red-figured Vases signed by 
or attributed to the various Masters of the sixth and fifth centuries B.c. i ii Cam- 
bridge, Mass. tg1Q. 

Hunter Cat. Coins = Catalogue of Greek Coins in the Hunterian Collection University of 
Glasgow by George Macdonald i—iii Glasgow 1899, 1901, 1905. 

i Italy, Sicily, Macedon, Thrace, and Thessaly. 
ii North Western Greece, Central Greece, Southern Greece, and Asia Minor. 
iii Further Asia, Northern Africa, Western Europe. 

Imhoof-Blumer Choix de monn. gr.v*=Choix de Monnaies grecques du cabinet de 
F. Imhoof-Blumer Winterthur 1871, Chotx de Monnaies grecques de la collection de 
F. Imhoof-Blumer Deuxieme édition. Paris—Leipzig 1883. 

Imhoof-Blumer G7. Miinzen = Griechische Miinzen. Neue Beitrage und Untersuchungen 
von F. Imhoof-Blumer (Aus den Abhandlungen der k. bayer. Akademie der Wiss. 
1. Cl. xvill. Bd. 111. Abth.) Miinchen 18go. 

Imhoof-Blumer A7eznas. Miinzen =Sonderschriften des Osterreichischen Archaéologischen 
Institutes in Wien Band 1, Band 111. <Aveznaséatische Miinzen von F. Imhoof- 
Blumer i ii Wien 1gor, rgoz. 

Imhoof-Blumer J¥onz. gr.=Verhandelingen der Koninklijke Akademie van Weten- 
schappen. Afdeeling Letterkunde. Veertiende Deel. Monnaies grecgues par 
F. Imhoof-Blumer Publié par Académie Royale Néerlandaise des Sciences. Am- 
sterdam 1883. 

Imhoof-Blumer and P. Gardner Mam. Comm. Paus.=A Numismatic Commentary on 
Pausanias by F. Imhoof-Blumer and Percy Gardner. Reprinted from the Journal 
of Hellenic Studies 1885, 1886, 1887. 

Immerwahr Ault. Myth. Arkad.=Die Kulte und Mythen Arkadiens dargestellt von 
Walter Immerwahr I. Band Die arkadischen Kulte Leipzig 1891. 

Inghirami Vas. fitt.=Pitture di Vast fittili esibite dal Cav. Francesco Inghirami per 
servire di studio alla mitologia ed alla storia degli antichi popoli i—iv Poligrafia 
Fiesolana dai torchi dell’ autore 1835—1837. 

Inscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess.=Inscriptiones Laconiae Messeniae Arcadiae 
i Inscriptiones Laconiae et Messeniae [/vscriptiones Graecae Vv. 1] ed. W. Kolbe 

Berolini 1913. 
ii Inscriptiones Arcadiae [/rscriptiones Graecae V. 2] ed. F. Hiller de Gaertringen 
Berolini 1913. 


Abbreviations XXX111 


Inscr. Gr. Deli=Inscriptiones Deli editae consilio et auctoritate Academiae inscriptionum 
et humaniorum litterarum Franco-Gallicae. 

ii Inscriptiones Deli liberae. Tabulae archontum, tabulae hieropoeorum ann. 
314—250 [Luscriptiones Graecae xi. 2] ed. F. Diirrbach Berolini rgr2. 

iii Inscriptiones Deli liberae. Tabulae hieropoeorum ann. 250—166, leges, pactiones 
[/nscriptiones Graecae xi, 3] ed. F. Diirrbach. 

iv Inscriptiones Deli liberae. Decreta, foedera, catalogi, dedicationes, varia [ Zn- 
scriptiones Graecaé xi. 4] ed. P. Roussel Berolini tg14. 

Lnscr. Gr. ins. = Inscriptiones Graecae tnsularum marts Aegaet 
i Inscriptiones Rhodi Chalces Carpathi cum Saro Casi [/vscriptiones Graecae 

xii, 1] ed. F. Hiller de Gaertringen Berolini 1895. 

ii Inscriptiones Lesbi Nesi Tenedi [/zscriptzones Graecae xii. 2] ed. W. Paton 
Berolini 189. 

iii Inscriptiones Symes Teutlussae Teli Nisyri Astypalaeae Anaphes Therae et 
Therasiae Pholegandri Meli Cimoli [Zvscriptiones Graecae xii. 3] ed. F. Hiller 
de Gaertringen Berolini 1898. Supplementa ed. F. Hiller de Gaertringen 
Berolini 1904. 

v_ Inscriptiones Cycladum [/nscriptiones Graecae xii. 5] ed. F. Hiller de Gaertringen 
Pars prior: Inscriptiones Cycladum praeter Tenum Berolini 1903. Pars altera: 
Inscriptiones Teni insulae et totius fasciculi indices Berolini 1909. 

vii Inscriptiones Amorgi et insularum vicinarum [/xscr7ptiones Graecae xi. 7] 
ed. J. Delamarre. Indices composuit F. Hiller de Gaertringen. Berolini 
1908. 

viii Inscriptiones insularum maris Thracici [/zscriptiones Graecae xii. 8] ed. C. 
Fredrich Berolini rgog. 

Inscr. Gr. Pelop. i= Corpus inscriptionum Graecarum Peloponnest et insularum vict- 
narum. Vol. i [Lnuscriptiones Graecae iv] Inscriptiones Graecae Aeginae, Pityonesi, 
Cecryphaliae, Argolidis ed. M. Fraenkel Berolini 1902. 

Inscr. Gr. sept. = Corpus tnmscriptionum Graecarum Graeciae septentrionalis 
i Inscriptiones Megaridis et Boeotiae [/yscrzptiones Graecae vii] ed. W. Ditten- 

berger Berolini 1892. 

iii. 1 Inscriptiones Phocidis, Locridis, Aetoliae, Acarnaniae, insularum maris Ionii 
[Juscriptiones Graecae ix. 1] ed. W. Dittenberger Berolini 1897. 

iii. 2 Inscriptiones Thessaliae [/zscriptiones Graecae ix. 2] ed. O. Kern. Indices 
composuit F. Hiller de Gaertringen Berolini 1908. 

Inser. Gr. Sic. It.=Inscriptiones Italiae et Siciliae | Inscriptiones Graecae xiv] ed. 

G. Kaibel. Galliae inscriptiones ed. A. Lebegue. Berolini r8go. 

Jahn Vasensamml. Miinchen = Beschreibung der Vasensammlung Konig Ludwigs in der 
Pinakothek zu Miinchen von Otto Jahn Miinchen 1854. 

Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst.=Jahrbuch des katserlich deutschen Archdologischen 
Instituts mit dem Beiblatt Archaologischer Anzeiger Berlin 1886— 

Jahrb. d. Vereins v. Alterthumsfreund. im Rheinl.=Jahrbticher des Vereins von Alter 
thumsfreunden im Rheinlande (Continued as the Bonner Jahrbiicher) Bonn 1842— 
1894. 

Jahrb. f. class. Philol.=Jahrbiicher fiir classische Philologie (Continued as the Veue 
Sahrbiicher fiir das klassische Altertum Geschichte und deutsche Litteratur und fiir 
Pidagogik) Leipzig 1855—1897. 

Jahrb. f. Philol. u. Pidag.= Neue Jahrbiicher fiir Philologte und Paedagogik. Zweite 
Abtheilung Leipzig 1855—1897. 

Jahresh. d. oest. arch. Inst.=Jahreshefte des dsterreichischen archiologischen Institutes in 
Wien Wien 1898— 

Journ. Anthrop. Inst.=The Journal of the (Royal) Anthropological Institute of Great 
Britain and [reland London 1872— , New Series London r899— 

Journ. Hell. Stud.=The Journal of Hellenic Studies London 1881— 

Journ. Intern. d’ Arch. Num.=Acebvis Ednuepts ris Nowicpuarixfs Apxacodoylas Journal 


XXX1V Abbreviations 


International d’Archéologie Numismatigue dirigé par J. N. Svoronos Athenes 
1898— . 

Journ. Rom. Stud. = The Journal of Roman Studies London 1911— 

Kaibel Zpigr. Gr.= Epigrammata Graeca ex lapidibus conlecta edidit Georgius Kaibel 
Berolini 1878. 

Kubitschek Rom. MWedaillons Wien= Ausgewdhlte romische Medaillons der kaiserlichen 
Miinzensammlung in Wien aus dem Illustrationsmaterial der Bande i—xi des 
Jahrbuches der Kunstsammlungen des a. h. Kaiserhauses neu herausgegeben von 
Wilhelm Kubitschek Wien 1909. 

Laborde Vases Lambere=A. de La Borde Collection des vases grecs de M. le comte de 
Lamberg i ii Paris 1813—1824, 1824—1828. 

La Grande Encyclopédie= La Grand: Encyclopédie Inventaire raisonné des sciences, des 
lettres et des arts par une société de savants et de gens de lettres... i—xxxi 
Paris s.a. 

Lanzone Dizion. di Mitol. Egiz.=R. Lanzone Diztonario di Mitologia Egiziana i Testo 

"ji Tavole Torino 1881. 

L’ Anthropologie = Matériaux pour histoire de Phomme—Revue d’anthropologie—Revue 
d’ethnographie réunis. LZ’ Anthropologie Paris 1890— 

Lebas—Foucart Péloponnése= Ph. Le Bas et W. H. Waddington Voyage archéologique en 
Gréce et en Asie Mineure pendant 1843 et 1844 11. Partie: Inscriptions grecques et 
latines. ii. 2 Mégaride et Péloponnése. 3. Béotie, Phocide, Etolie, Acarnanie, 
Epire, Thessalie, Macédoine, Thrace, Colonies du Pont-Euxine. 4. Iles. (Trans- 
cription and Commentary by P. Foucart) Paris 1847—1876. 

Lebas—Reinach Voyage Arch.= Bibliothique des Monuments Figuréds grecs et romains. 
Voyage Archéologique en Gréce et en Asie Mineure sous la direction de M. Philippe 
Le Bas...(1842—1844). Planches de topographie, de sculpture et d’architecture 
Gravées d’aprés les dessins de E. Landron publiées et commentées par Salomon 
Reinach...Paris 1888. 

Lebas—Waddington Asie Mineure=Ph. Le Bas et W. H. Waddington Voyage archéo- 
logique en Gréce et en Asie Mineure pendant 1843 et 1844 11. Partie: Inscriptions 
grecques et latines. ili. 5 Asie Mineure. 6. Syrie proprement dite. (Transcription 
and Commentary by W. H. Waddington) Paris 1847—1876. 

Lenormant—de Witte Z7/. mon. cér.= Elite des monuments céramographiques Matériaux 
pour L’histoire des religions et des mceurs de l’antiquité rassemblés et commentés par 
Ch. Lenormant et J. de Witte. Texte et Planches i—iv Paris 1844—186r. 

Leroux Cat. Vases de Madrid= Vases grecs et italo-grecs du Musée Archéologique de 
Madrid (Bibliotheque des Universités du Midi Fascicule xvi) par G. Leroux 
Bordeaux 1912. 

Lippold Gemmen=Gemmen und Kameen des Altertums und der Neuzett in Vergros- 
serungen herausgegeben von Georg Lippold Stuttgart (1922). 

Lobeck Aglaophamus= Aglaophamus sive de theologiae mysticae Graecorum causis libri 
tres. Scripsit Chr. Augustus Lobeck idemque poetarum Orphicorum dispersas 
reliquias collegit. i ii Regimontii Prussorum 1829. 

Liibker Reallex.8=Friedrich Liibkers Reallextkon des klassischen Altertums Achte voll- 
stindig umgearbeitete Auflage herausgegeben von J. Geffcken und E. Ziebarth in 
Verbindung mit B. A. Miiller unter Mitwirkung von W. Liebenam, E. Pernice, 
M. Wellmann, E. Hoppe, u.a. Leipzig—Berlin 1914. 

Luynes Descr. de vases peints= Description de quelques vases peints, étrusques, italiotes, 
sicthiens et grecs, par H. D. de Luynes,... Paris 1840. 

Masner Samm. ant. Vasen u. Terracotten Wien=K. K. Oesterreich. Museum fiir Kunst 
und Industrie. Die Sammlung antiker Vasen und Terracotten im K. K. Oecsterreich. 
Museum. Katalog und historische Einlettung von Karl Masner. Wien 1892. 

Matz—Duhn Ant. Bildw. in Rom=Antike Bildwerke in Rom mit Ausschluss der 
grosseren Sammlungen beschrieben von Friedrich Matz, nach des Verfassers Tode 
weitergefitihrt und herausgegeben von F. von Duhn i—iii Leipzig 1881—1882. 


Abbreviations XXXV 


L. Meyer Hand. d. gr. Etym.= Handbuch der griechischen Etymologie von Leo Meyer 
i—iv Leipzig 1901—~1902. 

Michel Recueil d’Iuscr. gr. = Recueil ad’ Inscriptions grecgues par Charles Michel Paris 
1900, Supplément—Fascicule i Paris rgr2. 

Milani Stud. e mat. di arch. e num.=Studi e materiali di archeologia e numismatica 
pubblicati per cura di Luigi Adriano Milani i—iii Firenze 1899—1901, 1902, 1905. 

Milet= Konigliche Museen zu Berlin. Milet Ergebnisse der Ausgrabungen und Unter- 
suchungen seit dem Jahre 1899 herausgegeben von Theodor Wiegand. 

i. t Karte der milesischen Halbinsel (rt : 50 000) mit erlauterndem Text von Paul 
Wilski Berlin 1906. 

i. 2 Das Rathaus von Milet von Hubert Knackfuss mit Beitraégen von Carl Fredrich, 
Theodor Wiegand, Hermann Winnefeld Berlin 1908. 

i. 3 Das Delphinion in Milet von Georg Kawerau und Albert Rehm unter Mitwirk- 
ung von Friedrich Freiherr Hiller yon Gaertringen, Mark Lidzbarski, Theodor 
Wiegand, Erich Ziebarth Berlin 1914. 

Der Poseidonaltar bei Kap Monodendri von Armin von Gerkan Berlin rgrs. 

Das Nymphaeum von Julius Hiilsen mit Beitragen von Hermann Dessau, Emil 

Merkenrath und Theodor Wiegand Text Berlin—Leipzig 1919. Tafeln Berlin 1919. 
i.6 Der Nordmarkt und der Hafen an der Lowenbucht von Armin von Gerkan 

mit epigraphischem Beitrag von Albert Rehm Berlin—Leipzig 1922. 

i. 7 Der Siidmarkt und die benachbarten Bauanlagen von Hubert Knackfuss mit 
epigraphischem Beitrag von Albert Rehm Berlin 1924. 

1.8 Kalabaktepe, Athenatempel und Umgebung von Armin von Gerkan Berlin 1925. 

ii. I Das Stadion von Armin von Gerkan Berlin—Leipzig 1921. 

iii.1 Der Latmos von Theodor Wiegand unter Mitwirkung von Konrad Boese, 
Hippolyte Delehaye, Hubert Knackfuss, Friedrich Krischen, Karl Lyncker, 
Walther von Marées, Oskar Wulff Berlin 1913. 

lii.2 Die Befestigungen von Herakleia am Latmos von Fritz Krischen Berlin— 
Leipzig 1922. 

Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant.=Description de médailles antiyues, grecques et romaines, 
avec leur degré de rareté et leur estimation. Ouvrage servant de catalogue a plus de 
vingt mille empreintes en soufre prises sur les piéces originales, par T. E. Mionnet 
i—vi Paris 1806—181r3 vii Recueil des planches Paris 1808, Seconde édition Paris 
1837, Supplément i—ix Paris 1819g—1839. 

Mnemosyne = Mnemosyne Tijdschrift voor classieke Litteratuur Leyden 1852— 

Mommsen este d, Stadt Athen=Feste der Stadt Athen im Altertum, geordnet nach 
attischem Kalender, von August Mommsen. Umarbeitung der 1864 erschienenen 
Heortologie. Leipzig 1898. 

Mon. Ann. e Bull. d. Inst. = Monumenti Annali e Bullettini pubblicati dall’ Instituto di 
Corrispondenza Archeologica nel 1854 Roma, nel 1855 Gotha—Lipsia. 

Mon. d. Inst. = Monumenti inedite pubblicati dal? Instituto di Corrispondenza Archeo- 
logica Rome et Paris 1829-1833—1839-1843, Roma 1844-1848—1849-1853, 1857- 
1863—1884-1885. Supplemento Berlin 189r. 

Mon. a, Linc.= Monumenti anticht pubblicati per cura della Reale Accademia dei Lincei 
Milano 1889— 

Mon. ed Ann, d. Inst. = Monumenti ed Annali pubblicati dall’ Instituto di Corrispondenza 
Archeologica nel 1856 Lipsia. 

Mon. Piot= Fondation Eugine Piot. Monuments et mémoires publiés par 1 Académie des 
Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres Paris 1894— 

Morell. Zhes. Num. Fam. Rom. = Thesaurus Morellianus, sive Familiarum Romanarum 
numismata omnia, Diligentissime undique conquisita, ad ipsorum nummorum fidem 
accuratissime delineata, & juxta ordinem Fulvii Ursini & Caroli Patini disposita, a 
Celeberrimo Antiquario Andrea Morellio. Accedunt nummi miscellanei, Urbis 
Romae, Hispanici, & Goltziani dubiae fidei omnes. Nunc primum edidit et Com- 
mentario perpetuo illustravit Sigebertus Havercampus i ii Amstelaedami 1734. 


= 
on > 


XXXVI - Abbreviations 


Morell. Zhes. Num. Imp. Rom.= Thesauri Morelliani tomus primus (secundus, tertius), 
Sive Christ. Schlegelii, Sigeb. Haverkampi, & Antonii Francisci Gorii Commentaria 
In xu. Priorum Imperatorum Romanorum numismata aurea, argentea, & aerea, 
Cujuscunque Moduli, diligentissime conquisita, & ad ipsos Nummos accuratissime 
delineata, a Celeberrimo Antiquario Andrea Morellio...Cum Praefatione Petri Wes- 
selingii i—ili Amstelaedami 1752. 

Miiller—Wieseler Denkm, d. alt. Kunst = Denkmiler der alten Kunst nach der Auswahl 
und Anordnung von C. O. Miiller. Zweite Bearbeitung durch Friedrich Wieseler, 
i ii Gottingen 1854—1856. 

Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke Ant. Denkm.=Antike Denkmaler zur griechischen Got- 
terlehre. Zusammengestellt von C. O. Miiller und F. Wieseler. Vierte umge- 
arbeitete und vermehrte Ausgabe von Konrad Wernicke. Denkmaler der alten Kunst 
von C. O. Miiller und F. Wieseler. Teil 11. Vierte umgearbeitete und vermehrte 
Ausgabe. Lieferung i—iii Text und Tafeln Leipzig 1899, 1900, 1903. 

Mus. Capit. Cat. Sculpt. See Stuart Jones Cat. Sculpt. Mus. Capit. Rome. 

Mus. Etr. Gregor. = Museum Etruscum Gregorianum Musei Etrusci quod Gregorius XVI 
pon. max. in aedibus Vaticanis constituit monimenta linearis picturae exemplis 
expressa et in utilitatem studiosorum antiquitatum et bonarum artium publici iuris 
facta i ii ex aedibus Vaticanis 1842. 

Musée Belge=Le Musée Belge Revue de philologie classique Louvain 1897— : 

Nachr. d. kin. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Gottingen Phil.-hist. Classe=Machrichten von der 
Georg-Augusts-Universitat und der Konigl. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Got- 
tingen Gottingen 1856— , Nachrichten von der K, Gesellschaft der Wessenschaften 
und der Georg-Augusts-Universitat Gottingen 1864— , Nachrichten von der 
Koniglichen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen. Philologisch-historische 
Klasse Berlin 1g06— . 

Neue Jahrb. f. klass. Altertum= Neue Jahrbiicher fiir das klassische Altertum Geschichte 
und deutsche Litteratur und fiir Pidagogik (Continuation of the /ahrbticher fiir 
classische Philologie) Leipzig 1898— 

Nicole Cat. Vases d’Athénes Suppl.=Catalogue des vases peints du Musée National 
@ Athénes. Supplément par Georges Nicole...avec une Préface de Maxime Col- 
lignon... Paris tgr1 with an Atlas of pls. 

Nilsson Gr. Feste=Griechische Feste von religiiser Bedeutung mit Ausschluss der attischen 
untersucht von Martin P. Nilsson Leipzig 1906. 

Not. Scavi= Notizie degli Scavi di Antichita, comunicate alla R. Accademia dei Lincei 
per ordine di S. E. il Ministro della pubb. Istruzione Roma 1876— 

Nouv. Ann. = Nouvelles Annales publiées par la section francaise de V Institut archéologique 
iii Paris 1836, 1839 with Atlas of pls. (facsimile-reproduction 1905). 

Num. Chron. = The Numismatic Chronicle London 1839—1841, The Numismatic Chronicle 
and Journal of the Numismatic Society London 1843—1859, New Series London 
1861—1880, Third Series London 1881—1900, Fourth Series London 1901—1920, 
Fifth Series London 1921— : 

Num. Zeitschr.= Numismatische Zeitschrift Wien 1869— : 

Ohnefalsch-Richter Aypros= Kypros The Bible and Homer. Oriental Civilization, Art 
and Religion in Ancient Times. Elucidated by the Author’s own Researches and 
Excavations during twelve years’ work in Cyprus. By Max Ohnefalsch-Richter. 
i Text ii Plates London 1893. 

Olympia = Olympia Die Ergebnisse der von dem deutschen Reich veranstalteten Ausgrab- 
ung im Auftrage des koniglich preussischen Ministers der geistlichen Unterrichts- 
und Medicinal-angelegenheiten herausgegeben von Ernst Curtius und Friedrich Adler. 

i Topographie und Geschichte von Olympia von Friedrich Adler, Ernst Curtius, 
Wilhelm Dorpfeld, Paul Graef, Joseph Partsch, Rudolf Weil. Textband zur 
Mappe mit den Karten und Planen Berlin 1897. 

ii Die Baudenkmaler von Olympia bearbeitet von Friedrich Adler, Richard Borr- 
mann, Wilhelm Dérpfeld, Friedrich Graeber, Paul Graef. Textband Tafelband 
iii Berlin 1892—1896. 


Abbreviations XXXVI 


iii Die Bildwerke in Stein und Thon bearbeitet von Georg Treu. Textband Tafel- 
band Berlin 1894—1897. 

iv Die Bronzen und die iibrigen kleineren Funde von Olympia bearbeitet von 
Adolf Furtwangler. Textband Tafelband Berlin 1890. 

v_ Die Inschriften von Olympia bearbeitet von Wilhelm Dittenberger und Karl 
Purgold. Berlin 1896. 

Or. Lit. = Orientalistische Litteratur-Zeitung Berlin 1898— 

Orelli Zrscr. Lat. sel.=Inscriptionum Latinarum selectarum amplissima collectio ad illus- 
trandam Romanae antiquztatis disciplinam accommodata ac magnarum collectionum 
supplementa complura emendationesque exhibens. Cum ineditis Io. Casp. Hagen- 
buchii suisque adnotationibus edidit Io. Casp. Orellius. Insunt lapides Helvetiae 
omnes. Accedunt praeter Fogginii kalendaria antiqua, Hagenbuchii, Maffeii, 
Ernestii, Reiskii, Seguierii, Steinbruechelii epistolae aliquot epigraphicae nunc 
primum editae. iit Turici 1828. 

Orelli—Henzen Jnscr. Lat. sel. = Inscriptionum Latinarum selectarum amplissima collectio 
ad illustrandam Romanae antiguitatis disciplinam accommodata. Volumen tertium 
collectionis Orellianae supplementa emendationesque exhibens edidit Guilielmus 
Henzen. Accedunt Indices rerum ac notarum quae in tribus voluminibus inveniuntur. 
Turici 1856. 

Overbeck Gall. her. Bildw.= Gallerie heroischer Bildwerke der alten Kunst, bearbeitet 
von Dr. Johannes Overbeck. Erster Band. Die Bildwerke zum thebischen und 
troischen Heldenkreis. Braunschweig 1853 with an Atlas of pls. 

Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth.=Griechische Kunstmythologie von J. Overbeck. Zweiter 
Band (Besonderer Theil). Erster Band. Erstes Buch: Zeus Leipzig 1871, Zweiter 
Band. Zweites, drittes und viertes Buch: Hera, Poseidon, Demeter und Kora 
Leipzig 1873—1878, Dritter Band. Fiinftes Buch: Apollon Leipzig 1889. Atlas 
der griechischen Kunstmythologie herausgegeben von Johannes Overbeck Lieferung 
i—v: Tafel 1—26 Leipzig 1872—1888. 

Overbeck Gr. Plastikt= Geschichte der griechischen Plastik von J. Overbeck. Vierte 
umgearbeitete und vermehrte Auflage. i ii Leipzig 1893, 1894. 

Overbeck Schrifiguellen= Die antiken Schriftquellen zur Geschichte der bildenden Kiinste 
bei den Griechen. Gesammelt von J. Overbeck. Leipzig 1868. 

Pauly Real-Enc.= Real-Encyclopidie der classischen Alterthumswissenschaft in alpha- 
betischer Ordnung. Von...und dem Herausgeber August Pauly. i “(Zweite vollig 
umgearbeitete Auflage) Stuttgart 1864, 1866 ii—vi Stuttgart 1842—1852. 

Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc.=Paulys Real-Encyclopadie der classischen Altertumswissen- 
schaft Neue Bearbeitung unter Mitwirkung zahlreicher Fachgenossen herausge- 
geben von Georg Wissowa i—vi Stuttgart 1894—1909, herausgegeben von Georg 
Wissowa und Wilhelm Kroll vii Stuttgart 1gto-—1g12, begonnen von Georg 
Wissowa...herausgegeben von Wilhelm Kroll viii— Stuttgart rg12— _, begonnen 
von Georg Wissowa...herausgegeben von Wilhelm Kroll und Kurt Witte (Zweite 
Reihe [R—Z])ia— ___ Stuttgart r914— _—, Supplement i—iv Stuttgart 1903, 1913, 
1918, 1924. 

Pellegrini Cat. vas. ant. dipint. Bologna= Museo Civico di Bologna. Catalogo det vast 
antichi dipinti delle colleziont Palagi ed Universitaria descritti dal Dott. Giuseppe 
Pellegrini...Edito per cura del Comune di Bologna. Bologna 1goo. 

Pellegrini Cat. vas. gr. dipint. Bologna= Museo Civico di Bologna. Catalogo dei vast 
erect dipinti delle necropoli Felsinee descritti da Giuseppe Pellegrini. Edito per cura 
del Comune di Bologna. Bologna rg1z. 

Pergamon = Kinigliche Museen zu Berlin. Altertiimer von Pergamon herausgegeben im 
Auftrage des kéniglich preuszischen Ministers der geistlichen und Unterrichts- 
angelegenheiten Berlin 1885— 

i Stadt und Landschaft von Biccander Conze, Otto Berlet, Alfred Philippson, 
Carl Schuchhardt, Friedrich Graber mit Beitragen von Johannes Mordtmann, 
Kurt Regling, Paul Schazmann, August Senz, Adam Zippelius. Text 1—3 
with Atlas of pls. 1912—1913. 


XXXVIII Abbreviations 


ii Das Heiligtum der Athena Polias Nikephoros von Richard Bohn mit einem 
Beitrage von Hans Droysen. Text with Atlas of pls. 1885. 

iii, 1 Der grosze Altar. Der obere Markt. Von Jakob Schrammen. Text with 
Atlas of pls. 1906. 

iii, 2 Die Friese des groszen Altars von Hermann Winnefeld. Text with Atlas 
of pls. 1910. 

iv Die Theater-Terrasse von Richard Bohn. Text with Atlas of pls. 1896. 

y, 2 Das Traianeum von Hermann Stiller mit einem Beitrage von Otto Raschdorff. 
Text with Atlas of pls. 1895. 

vi Das Gymnasion von Paul Schazmann. Text with Atlas of pls. Berlin—Leipzig 
1923. 

vii Die Skulpturen mit Ausnahme der Altarreliefs von Franz Winter mit einem 
Beitrage von Jakob Schrammen. Text 1—2 with Atlas of pls. 1908. 

viii, 1 Die Inschriften von Pergamon unter Mitwirkung von Ernst Fabricius und 
Carl Schuchhardt herausgegeben von Max Frankel. 1—z. 1890, 1895. 
Perrot—Chipiez Mist. de ? Art = Histoire del’ Art dans l’ Antiguité...par Georges Perrot... 

et Charles Chipiez... i— Paris 1881— 
i L’Egypte 1881, ii Chaldée et Assyrie 1884, iii Phénicie—Cypre 1885, iv Judée 
—Sardaigne—Syrie—Cappadoce 1887, v Perse—Phrygie—Lydie et Carie—Lycie 
1890, vi La Grece primitive: l’art Mycénien 1894, vii La Gréce de l’épopée— 
La Gréce archaique: le temple 1898, viii La Gréce archaique: la sculpture 1903, 
ix La Gréce archaique: la glyptique—la numismatique—la peinture—la céramique 
1g11, x La Gréce archaique: la céramique d’Athenes 1914. 

Philologus =Philologus. Zeitschrift fiir das klassische Alterthum. Stolberg 1846, Got- 
tingen 1847—1888, Neue Folge Gottingen 1889—1896, Leipzig 1897— 

Poet. Lat. min.=Poetae Latini minores. Recensuit et emendavit Aemilius Baehrens 
i—vi Lipsiae 1879—1886. 

Poet. lyr. Gr. = Poetae lyrict Graect. Recensuit Theodorus Bergk. Editionis quartae 
i—iii Lipsiae 1878—1882. 

Pottier Cat. Vases du Louvre= Musée National du Louvre. Catalogue des vases antiques 
de terre cuite par E. Pottier. Etudes sur V’histoire de la peinture et du dessin dans 
Vantiquité. i Lesorigines, ii L’école ionienne, iii L’école attique Paris 1896, 1899, 1906. 

IIpaxr. dpx. ér.=IIpaxrixa ris év’ AOjvars dpxatonoyck7s érarplas Athens 1872— 

Preller Lom. Myth.»* = Rimische Mythologie von L. Preller Berlin 1858, Zweite Auflage 
von R. Kohler Berlin 1865. 

Preller—Jordan Rim. Myth. = Romische Mythologie von L. Preller. Dritte Auflage von 
H. Jordan i ii Berlin 1881, 1883. 

Preller—Plew Gr. Myth.=L. Preller Griechische Mythologie. Dritte Auflage von 
E. Plew. Erster Band. Theogonie und G6tter. Zweiter Band. Die Heroen. 
Berlin 1872, 1875. 

Preller—Robert Gr. Myth. = Griechische Mythologie von L. Preller. Erster Band. 
Theogonie und Goetter. Vierte Auflage bearbeitet von Carl Robert. Berlin 1894. 
Zweiter Band. Die Heroen (Die griechische Heldensage). Vierte Auflage erneuert 
von Carl Robert. Erstes Buch. Landschaftliche Sagen. Berlin 1920. Zweites 
Buch. Die Nationalheroen. Berlin rg21. Drittes Buch. Die grossen Heldenepen. 
i. Abteilung. Die Argonauten. Der thebanische Kreis. Berlin 1921. ii. Abteilung. 
Erste Halfte. Der troische Kreis bis zu Ilions Zerstorung. Berlin 1923. 

Prellwitz Ziym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr2=LEtymologisches Worterbuch der Griechischen 
Sprache von Prof. Dr. Walther Prellwitz...2. verbesserte Auflage. Gottingen 1905. 

Priene= Konigliche Museen zu Berlin. Priene Ergebnisse der Ausgrabungen und Unter- 
suchungen in den Jahren 1895—1898, von Theodor Wiegand und Hans Schrader 
unter Mitwirkung von G. Kummer, W. Wilberg, H. Winnefeld, R. Zahn. Berlin rg04. 

Rasche Lex. Mum.=Lexicon universae ret numariae veterum et praecipue Graecorum ac 
Romanorum cum observationibus antiquariis geographicis chronologicis historicis 
criticis et passim cum explicatione monogrammatum edidit Io. Christophorus Rasche. 


Abbreviations eee 


i—xi (Tomi 1—v1, 1) Lipsiae 1785—1795, Supplementorum i—iii (Tomi v1, 2— 
vil, 2) Lipsiae 1802—1805. 

Reinach Bronzes Figurés=Antiquités Nationales. Description raisonnée du Musée de 
Saint-Germain-en-Laye. Bronzes figurés de la Gaule romaine par Salomon Reinach 
...Paris (1895). 

Reinach Prerres Gravées= Bibliothique des monuments figurés grecs et romains. Pierres 
gravées des collections Marlborough et d’Orléans, des recueils d’Eckhel, Gori, 
Levesque de Gravelle, Mariette, Millin, Stosch réunies et rééditées avec un texte 
nouveau par Salomon Reinach...Paris 1895. 

Reinach Rép. Art Quat.=Salomon Reinach Répertoire de Part quaternaire Paris 1913. 

Reinach 2ép. Petnt. Gr. Rom.=S. Reinach Répertotre de Peintures Grecgues et Romaines 
(RPGR.) avec 2720 gravures. Paris 1922. 

Reinach Rép. Peintures=Salomon Reinach Répertoire de peintures du moyen Age et de la 
renaissance (1280—1580) i—vi Paris 1905, 1907, 1910, 1918, 1922, 1923. 

Reinach Rép. Reliefs=Salomon Reinach Répertoire de Reliefs Grecs et Romains i Les 
ensembles, ii Afrique—Iles Britanniques, iii Italie—Suisse Paris 1909, IQI2, 1912. 

Reinach Aép. Stat.=Salomon Reinach Répertotre de la statuaire grecque et romaine 
i Clarac de poche, contenant les bas-reliefs de lancien fonds du Louvre et les 
Statues antiques du Musée de sculpture de Clarac, avec une introduction, des notices 
et un index. ii Sept mille statues antiques, réunies pour la premiére fois, avec des 
notices et des index. ii Deux mille six cent quarante statues antiques, réunies 
pour la premiére fois, avec des notices et les index des trois tomes. iv Quatre mille 
statues antiques avec des notices et les index des quatre tomes. v. 1 Deux mille 
trois cent quatre-vingts statues. v. 2 Deux mille trois cent quatre-vingts statues. 
Paris 1897, 1897—1898, 1904, 1910, 1924. 

Reinach és. Vases=Salomon Reinach Répertotre des vases peints grecs et étrusgues 
i Peintures de vases gravées dans |’ Ad/as et le Compte-rendu de St.-Pétersbourg, les 
Monumenti, Annali et Memorie de Institut de Rome, lArchaeologische Zeitung, le 
Bullettino Napolitano, \e Bullettino Italiano, V Ephéméris (1883—1894), le Museo 
Ttaliano, avec des notices explicatives et bibliographiques. ii Peintures de vases 
gravées dans les recueils de Millingen (Coghz//), Gerhard (Azwserl. Vasenbilder), 
Laborde, Luynes, Roulez, Schulz (A mzazonenvase), Tischbein (Tomes I—v) avec des 
notices explicatives et bibliographiques, une bibliographie de la céramique grecque 
et étrusque, et un index des tomes i et ii. Paris 1899 (Deuxiéme édition 1923), 1g00. 

Reinach Vases Ant.= Bibliotheque des monuments figurés grecs et romains. Peintures de 
vases antigues recueillies par Millin (1808) et Millingen (1813) publiées et com- 
mentées par Salomon Reinach...Paris 189t. 

Rendiconti d. Lincet= Rendiconti della reale accademia det Lincet Classe di scienze morali, 
storiche e filologiche. Serie Quinta. Roma 1892— 

Rev. Arch.= Revue archéologique Paris 1844—1859, Nouvelle série Paris 1860—1882, 
Troisiéme série Paris 1883—1902, Quatrieme série Paris 1903—1914, Cinquieme 
série 1915— 

Rev. Belge de Num.= Revue belge de numismatigue (Continuation of the Revue de la 
numismatigue belge Bruxelles 1841—1874) Bruxelles 1875— 

Rev. Et. Gr.= Revue des études grecques Paris 1888— 

Rev. Num.= Revue numismatigue (Continuation of the Revue de la numismatique 
Jrancoise Blois 1836—1837) Blois 1838—1856, Nouvelle série Paris 1856—1874- 
1877, Troisiéme série Paris 18831896, Quatriéme série Paris 1897— 

kev. Philol. = Revue de philologie, de littérature et @histotre anctennes Paris 1845—1847, 
Nouvelle série Paris 1877— 

Rhein. Mus. = Rheinisches Museum fiir Philologie, Geschichte und griechische Philosophie 
Bonn 1827—1829, Rheinisches Museum fiir Philologie Bonn 1832—1839, Neue 
Folge Frankfurt am Main 1842— 

Richter Cat. Bronzes New Vork=The Metropolitan Museum of Art—Greek, Etruscan 
and Roman Bronzes by Gisela M. A. Richter. New York tg15. 


xl Abbreviations 


Robert Sark.-Relfs= Die antiken Sarkophag-Reliefs im Auftrage des kaiserlich deutschen 
archaeologischen Instituts mit Benutzung der Vorarbeiten von Friedrich Matz 
herausgegeben und bearbeitet von Carl Robert. Zweiter Band: Mythologische 
Cyklen Berlin 1890. Dritter Band: Einzelmythen. Erste Abtheilung: Actaeon— 
Hercules Berlin 1897, Zweite Abtheilung: Hippolytos—Meleagros Berlin 1904, 
Dritte Abtheilung : Niobiden—Triptolemos Ungedeutet Berlin 1919. 

Roberts Gk. Efigr.=An Introduction to Greek Epigraphy. Part 1 The Archaic Inscrip- 
tions and the Greek Alphabet. Edited for the Syndics of the University Press by 
E. S. Roberts...Cambridge 1887. 

Roberts—Gardner Gk. Efigr.=An Introduction to Greek Epigraphy. Part 11 The In- 
scriptions of Attica. Edited by E. S. Roberts...and E. A. Gardner...Cambridge 1905. 

Robinson Caz. Vases Boston = Museum of Fine Arts Boston: Catalogue of Greek Etruscan 
and Roman Vases by Edward Robinson...Boston and New York 1893. 

Roehl Juscr. Gr. ant.=Inscriptiones Graecae antiguissimae praeter Atticas in Altica 
repertas. Consilio et auctoritate Academiae Litterarum Regiae Borussicae edidit 
Hermannus Roehl Berolini 1882. - 

Rohde /Psyche?= Psyche Seelencult und Unsterblichkeitsglaube der Griechen. Von 
Erwin Rohde. Freiburg i. B. und Leipzig 1894, Zweite Auflage. i ii Tiibingen 
und Leipzig 1897, Dritte Auflage. i ii Tiibingen und Leipzig 1903. 

Rim. Mitth. = Mittheilungen des katserlich deutschen archaeologischen Instituts: roemische 
Abtheilung Rom 1886— 

Roscher Lex. Myth.=Ausfiihrliches Lexikon der griechischen und rimischen Mythologie 
im Verein mit...herausgegeben von W. H. Roscheri— Leipzig 1884-1890— 

Roulez Vases de Leide=Choix de vases peints du Musée a’ Antiquités de Leide; publiés et 
commentés par J. Roulez...Gand 1854. 

Roux—Barré Herc. et Pomp.=Herculanum et Pompéi Recueil général des peintures, 

bronzes, mosaiques, etc. découverts jusqu’a ce jour, et reproduits d’aprés Le antichita 

di Ercolano, ll Museo Borbonico et tous les ouvrages analogues augmenté de sujets 

inédits gravés au trait sur cuivre par H. Roux ainé Et accompagné d’un Texte 

explicatif par M. L. Barré i—viii Paris 1870—1872. 

Ruggiero Dizton. epigr. = Dizionario epigrafico di antichita romane di Ettore de Ruggiero 
i— Roma 1895— 

Sambon Monn. ant. It.= Bibliotheque du ‘* Musée.” Les monnates antiques de T Italie 
par Arthur Sambon i Etrurie—Ombrie—Picenum—Samnium—Campanie Fascicule 
I—5 Paris 1903—1904. 

Sardis = Sardis (Publications of the American Society for the Excavation of Sardis). 
Volume vi (Lydian Inscriptions) Part 1 by Enno Littmann. Leiden 1916. Part 2 

by W. H. Buckler. Leyden 1924. 
Volume xi (Coins) Part 1 (1910—1914) by H. W. Bell. Leiden 1916. 

Scholl—Studemund anecad. = Anecdota varia Graeca et Latina. Ediderunt Rud. Schoell 
et Guil. Studemund. i Anecdota varia Graeca musica metrica grammatica. Edidit 
Guilelmus Studemund. ii Procli commentariorum in Rempublicam Platonis partes 
ineditae. Edidit Rudolfus Schoell. Berolini 1886. 

Schrader Readlex.= Reallexikon der indogermanischen Altertumskunde. Grundziige einer 
Kultur- und Voélkergeschichte Alteuropas von O. Schrader, Strassburg 1gor. 

Schrader Reallex.2=Reallexikon der indogermanischen Altertumskunde von O. Schrader. 
Zweite vermehrte und umgearbeitete Auflage. Erste Lieferung. Strassburg 1917, 
Zweite Lieferung— _ herausgegeben von A. Nehring. Berlin—Leipzig 1920— 

Script. hist. Alex. Mag.=Scriptores rerum Alexandri Magni. Fragmenta collegit, 
disposuit, vertit, annotatione instruxit, de vitis scriptisque auctorum disseruit, in- 
dicem plenissimum adjecit Carolus Mullerus. Parisiis 1846 [printed at the end of 
the Didot edition of Arrian (Paris 1865)]. 

Sieveking—Hackl Vasensamml. Miinchen = Die hkinigliche Vasensammlung zu Miinchen 
herausgegeben von Johannes Sieveking und Rudolf Hackl. i Die dlteren nicht- 
attischen Vasen. Text von R. Hackl. Miinchen 1912. 


Abbreviations xli 


Sitzungsber. d. Akad. d. Wiss. Berlin = Sitzungsberichte der konighch preussischen 
Akademie der Wissenschaften (zu Berlin) (Continuation of the MWonatsberichte der 
Koniglichen Preuss. Akademie der Wissenschaften 2u Berlin Berlin 1854—1881) 
Berlin 1882— : 

Sitzungsber. a. Heidelb, Ahad. d. Wiss, Phil.-hist. Classe =Sitzungsberichte des Heidel- 
berger Akademie der Wissenschaften. Philosophisch-historische Klasse. Heidelberg 
Ig1o— 

Sitzsungsber. a. Bele Akad. ad. Wiss. in Wien Phil.-hist. Classe=Sztzungsberichte der 
Philosophisch-historischen Classe ( Klasse) der kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften 
Wien 1848— 

Sitzungsber. ad. kais. bayr. Akad. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe=Sttzungsberichte der konigl. 
bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften Miinchen 1860—1877, Sttzungsberichte der 
philosophisch-philologischen und (der) historischen Classe (Klasse) der k. b. Akademie 
der Wissenschaften 2 Miinchen Miinchen 1878— : 

Smith Dict. Biogr. Myth. = Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology. 
Edited by William Smith... i—iii London 1853, 1854, 1856. 

Smith Dict. Geogr. = Dictionary of Greek and Roman Geography. Edited by William 
Smith... iii London 1854, 1857. 

Smith—Cheetham Dict. Chr. Ant.=A Dictionary of Christian Antiquitzes comprising 
the history, institutions, and antiquities of the Christian Church, from the time of the 
Apostles to the age of Charlemagne. By various writers, edited by Sir William 
Smith...& Samuel Cheetham...Fifth impression. i ii London 1908. 

Smith—Marindin Class. Dict.=A Classical Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography, 
Mythology, and Geography based on the larger dictionaries by the late Sir William 
Smith... Revised throughout and in part rewritten by G. E. Marindin... London 
1899. 

- Smith—Wace Dict. Chr. Biogr.=A Dictionary of Christian Biography, Literature, 
Sects and Doctrines; being a continuation of ‘The Dictionary of the Bible.’ Edited 
by William Smith... and Henry Wace... i—iv London 1877, 1880, 1882, 1887. 

Smith—Wayte—Marindin Dict. Ant.=A Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities. 
Edited by William Smith... William Wayte... G. E. Marindin... Third edition, 
revised and enlarged. i i1 London 1890, 189r. 

Sogliano Pitt. mur. Camp.=Le pitture murali campane scoverte negli anni 1867-79 
descritte da Antonio Sogliano. Supplemento all’ opera dell’ Helbig ‘‘ Wandgemiilde 
der yom Vesuv verschiitteten Staidte Campaniens, Leipzig 1868.” Napoli 1879. 

Stais Coll. Mycénienne: Athénes = Guide illustré du Musée National ad’ Athines—Collec- 
tion Mycénienne par V. Stais... ii volume Athenes 1909. 

Stais Marbres et Bronzes: Athines?= Guide illustré 2% édition corrigée et augmentée. 
Marbres et Bronzes du Musée National par V. Stais... 1°" volume Athénes 1910, 

Stephani Vasensamml. St. Petersburg = Die aes Sammlung der kaiserlichen Ermitage 
i ii St. Petersburg 1869. 

Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling.=Onoavpds ris “ENAnvixjs yAdoons. Thesaurus Graecae 
linguae, ab Henrico Stephano constructus. Post editionem Anglicam novis addita- 
mentis auctum, ordineque alphabetico digestum tertio ediderunt Carolus Benedictus 
Hase,... Guilielmus Dindorfius et Ludovicus Dindorfius... i—viii Parisiis (1831— 
1865). 

Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins=A Dictionary of Roman Coins, republican 
and imperial: commenced by the late Seth William Stevenson...revised, in part, 
by C. Roach Smith...and completed by Frederic W. Madden... London 1889. 

Stuart-Jones Cat. Sculpt. Mus. Capit. Rome=A Catalogue of the Ancient Sculptures 
preserved tn the Municipal Collections of Rome. The Sculptures of the Museo Capitolino. 
By members of the British School at Rome, edited by H. Stuart Jones...with Atlas of 
pls. Oxford rg12. 

Suppl. epigr. Gr. =Supplementum epigraphicum Graecum Adiuvantibus P. Roussel, 
Argentorati, A. Sala¢é, Pragae, M. N. Tod, Oxonii, E. Ziebarth, Hamburgi, redig- 


xlii Abbreviations 


endum curavit J. J. E. Hondius, Lugduni Batavorum. i— Lugduni Batavorum 
1923-1924— 

Svoronos A¢h. Nesionuanas: = Das athener Nationalmuseum phototypische Wiedergabe 
seiner Schitze mit erlauterndem Text von J. N. Svoronos...Deutsche Ausgabe 
besorgt von Dr W. Barth Heft i—xxiv Athen 1903—1912. 

Thes. Ling. Lat. = Thesaurus linguae Latinae editus auctoritate et consilio Academiarum 
quinque Germanicarum Berolinensis Gottingensis Lipsiensis Monacensis Vindo- 
bonensis i— Lipsiae 1900— . Index librorum scriptorum inscriptionum 
ex quibus exempla adferuntur. Lipsiae 1904. Supplementum: nomina propria 
Latina. Lipsiae 19g09— 2 

The Year's Work in Class. Stud.=The Years Work in Classical Studies 1906— 
London 1907— ; 

Tiryns = Kaiserlich deutsches archacologisches Institut in Athen. Tiryns. Die Ergeb- 
nisse der Ausgrabungen des Instituts. 
ir. Die Hera von Tiryns, von August Frickenhaus. 2. Die ‘geometrische’ 

Nekropole, von Walter Miiller und Franz Oelmann. Athen 1912. 
ii Die Fresken des Palastes von Gerhart Rodenwaldt mit Beitragen von Rudolf 
Hacklt und Noel Heaton. Athen 1912. 

Tresp Frag. gr. Kultschr.=A. Tresp Die Fragmente der griechischen Kultschriftsteller 
Giessen 1914. 

Vasos griegos Madrid=Francisco Alvarez-Ossorio Vasos griegos etruscos é ttalo-griegos 
gue se conservan en el Museo Arqueologico Nacional Madrid 1910. 

Verh. d. 40. Philologenversamml. in Gorlitz = Verhandlungen der vierzigsten Versammlung 
deutscher Philologen und Schulmdnner tn Gorlitz vom 2. bis 5. Oktober 1889. Leipzig 
189go. 

Villoison anecd.=Anecdota Greca E Regia Parisiensi; & e Veneta S. Marci Bibliothecis 
deprompta Edidit Johannes Baptista Caspar d’Ansse de Villoison... i ii Venetiis 178r. 

Visconti AZus. Pie-Clém. =CEuvres de Ennius Quirinus Visconti. Zusée Pie-Clémentin 
i—vii Milan 1818—1822, Monwmens du Musée Chiaramonti, décrits et expliqués 
par Philippe Auréle Visconti et Joseph Guattani, Servant de suite et de complément 
au Musée Pie-Clémentin, traduit de litalien par A. F. Sergent-Marceau Milan 1822. 

Von Rohden—Winnefeld Ant. Terrakotten= Die antiken Terrakotten im Auftrag des 
archaologischen Instituts des deutschen Reichs herausgegeben von Reinhard Kekulé 
von Stradonitz. Band iv, 1 Architektontsche rimische Tonreliefs der Kaiserzeit 
bearbeitet von Hermann von Rohden unter Mitwirkung von Hermann Winnefeld. 
Text und Tafeln. Berlin und Stuttgart rgrr. 

Von Sacken Ant. Bronzen Wien=E. von Sacken Die antiken Bronzen des k. kh. Miinz- 
und Antiken- Cabinetes tn Wien Wien 1871. 

Reinach Monn. gr. d’As. Min.= Académie des Inscriptions et 
NBeiles-Lewies (Fondation Piot). Recueil général des monnaies grecques a’ Asie Mineure 
commencé par feu W. H. Waddington...continué et complété par E. Babelon... 
Th. Reinach... Tome premier. Premier fascicule: Pont et Paphlagonie. Paris 
1904. Deuxiéme fascicule: Bithynie (jusqu’a Juliopolis). Paris 1908. Troisiéme 
fascicule: Nicée et Nicomédie. Paris 1910. Quatriéme fascicule: Prusa, Prusias, 
Tius. Paris 1912. 

Walde Lat. etym. Worterb.=Lateinisches etymologisches Worterbuch von Dr. Alois 
Walde... Heidelberg 1906. Zweite umgearbeitete Auflage Heidelberg 1910. 

Welcker Alt. Denkm.= Alte Denkmaler erklart von F. G. Welcker. 

i Die Giebelgruppen und andre Griechische Gruppen und Statuen. Gottingen 
1849. 

ii Basreliefe und geschnittne Steine. Gottingen 1850. 

iii Griechische Vasengemilde. Gottingen 1851. 

iv Wandgemalde. Mit einer Abhandlung iiber Wandmalerei und Tafelmalerei.- 
Gottingen 1861. 

v Statuen, Basreliefe und Vasengemilde. Gdéttingen 1864. 





Abbreviations xlili 


Welcker Gr. Gotterl.= Griechische Gitterlehre von F. G. Welcker i—iii Gottingen \ 1857, 
1860, 1863. 

Wide Lakon. Kulte=Lakonische Kulte dargestellt von Sam Wide Leipzig 1893. 

Wien. Vorlegebl, = Vorlegeblatter fiir archaeologische Ubungen Serie i—viii herausgegeben 
von A. Conze Wien 1869—1876, Serie A—E herausgegeben von O. Benndorf 
Wien 1879—1886, Serie 1888, 1889, 1890/91 herausgegeben von O. Benndorf 
Wien 1889, 1890, 1891. 

Wilmanns Z£x. inscr. Lat.=Exempla inscriptionum Latinarum in usum praecipue 
Academicum composuit Gustavus Wilmanns. i ii Berolini 1873. 

Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Berlin=Festgedanken an Winckelmann von Eduard Gerhard 
Berlin 1841, Zweites— Programm zum berliner Winckelmannsfest Berlin 1842— ___, 
Antikenkranz zum neunten— berliner Winckelmannsfest Berlin 1849—  , Zwolftes 
Programm der archiologischen Gesellschaft 2u Berlin zum Geddchtnisstag Winckel- 
manns Berlin 1852, Vierzehntes— Programm zum Winckelmannsfest der archdolog- 
zschen Gesellschaft zu Berlin Berlin 1854— 

Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Halle= Erstes Se hallesches (hallesches) Winckel- 
mannsprogramm...von Heinrich Heydemann. Halle a/S, 1876—1888, Vierzehntes 
(—Postumes vierundzwanzigstes) hallisches Winckelmannsprogramm ...von Carl 
Robert. Halle 1890—1903. 

Winnefeld Vasensamml. Karlsruhe=Grossh. Vereinigte Sammlungen zu Karlsruhe. 
Beschreibung der Vasensammlung von Hermann Winnefeld Karlsruhe 1887. 

Winter Ant. Terrakotten=Die antiken Terrakotten im Auftrag des archaologischen 
Instituts des deutschen Reichs herausgegeben von Reinhard Kekulé von Stradonitz. 
Band iii, i Dze Typen der figiirlichen Terrakotten bearbeitet von Franz Winter. 
iii Berlin und Stuttgart 1903. 

Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rim.= Religion und Kultus der Romer (Handbuch der klasstischen 
Altertums-wissenschaft herausgegeben von Dr. Iwan von Miiller v. Band, 4. Abteilung) 
von Dr. Georg Wissowa...Miinchen 1902, Zweite Auflage Miinchen 1912. 

Wolf anecd.=J. C. Wolf Anecdota Greca, sacra et profana, ex codicibus manu exaratis 
nunc primum in lucem edita, versione Latina, et notis illustrata. i—iv Hamburgi 
1722—1724. 

Zettschr. f. Num.= Zeitschrift fiir Numismatik Berlin 1874— 





GHAPTER I 
ZEUS AS GOD OF THE WEATHER. 


S1. Zeus lightens, thunders, rains, etc. 


IN the first volume of this work I endeavoured to show that 
Zeus, the Greek sky-god, was originally just the bright or day-light 
sky conceived as alive and operant; that already in Homeric times 
he had passed from the zoistic to the anthropomorphic stage, 
being regarded as a divine king who dwelt in the azure brilliance 
of the upper air; and that subsequently he came to be associated 
with other manifestations of celestial light in the various solar, 
lunar, and stellar cults of the Hellenistic world. 

Zeus, then, was primarily god of the bright sky. But the sky is 
not always bright. As the rustic Korydon remarks in an idyll of 
Theokritos : 


Ay, Zeus is sometimes fair and sometimes foul!. 


Hence the Greeks naturally extended the notion of Zeus as god of 
the bright sky to cover that of Zeus as weather-god in general. 
The poets from Homer downwards used such expressions as ‘ Zeus 
lightens, ‘Zeus thunders®, ‘Zeus rains‘, ‘Zeus snows’, ‘Zeus 
sends the hail®.”’ The man in the street, with a reticence perhaps 
born of superstitious caution’, preferred to say ‘God rains,’ ‘God 


1 Theokr. 4. 43 xw Zevs &dNoxa ev mwéder alOpios, &ANoka O° Ver. 

2 E.y. Ll. 9. 236 £. Leds 6€ cpu Kpovidns evidéia onuata patvwv | dorparrer. 

3 FE.g. Od. 14. 305 Leds & duvdis Bpdvrnce kai €uBare vyl Kepavvdr. 

4 Fug. Il. 12. 25 f. te & dpa Leds | owexés, Hes. o.d. 415 f. werorwpivdy duBpnoartos 
Znvos épiobevéos. 

° £.g. Babr. 45. 1 &videv 0 Leds. 

6 E.g. Eur. Tro. 78 f. wat Leds wev duBpov xal xddafgav dorerov | méuper Svopwdn 7’ 
aldépos puojmara. 

Phrases of the type Zevs...du8pov...réuper are further removed from primitive zoism 
than phrases of the type Zev’s...tec. Transitional in character are such lines as Zeds 0° 
Guvdts Bpdytnce kal EuBare vi kepavvdv, of which the second half is more anthropographic 
than the first. 

* Frazer Golden Bough*: Taboo pp. 318—391 discusses avoidance of names and 7d. 
p- 387 ff. collects examples of ‘Names of Gods tabooed.’ See also F. C. Conybeare 
‘The Use of Sacred Names’ in 7ransactions of the Third International Congress for the 
Listory of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 358—361. 


Cc. Il. I 


2 Zeus lightens, thunders, rains, etc. 


snows, or ‘He lightens,’ ‘He thunders’, but—if pressed for an ex- 
planation—would ascribe these actions to Zeus’. 

It was, therefore, a shock to old-fashioned piety, when philo- 
sophers and sophists insisted that such phaenomena were brought 
about by purely physical causes. A certain memorable scene in 
The Clouds of Aristophanes* represents Strepsiades, a member of 
the old school, as being instructed in the new learning by Sokrates: 


Str. What! d’you mean that Zeus is not god, Zeus in heaven, on whom we 
call? 
Socr. Zeus, d’you say? now don’t talk drivel ; Zeus does not exist at all. 
Str. What! Who makes the rain then? tell me that, and I shall be content. 
Socr. Why the Clouds: I’ll prove it to you by convincing argument. 
Have you ever seen rain falling, when the clouds weren’t passing by? 
If it’s Zeus who rains, he ought to do it from a cloudless sky. 
Str. That’s a clever point, I grant you, neatly used to back your case. 
Yet I thought once Zeus passed water through a sieve, when rain took 
place. 
But who is it then that thunders, when I cower and hide my face? 
Socr. Why, the rolling clouds make thunder. 
SUH. What d’you mean ? that’s blasphemy. 
Socr. When they’re teeming full of water and are forced across the sky, 
Big with rain and bulging downwards, moving at a fearful rate, 
Charging each against the next, they burst and crash with all their weight. 
Str. But who is it drives them onwards? do you think it’s Zeus, or not ? 
Socr. No, the atmospheric vortex. 
SE. Vortex! yes, I quite forgot : 
Zeus does not exist, but Vortex rules instead of him to-day. 


Philosophers and would-be philosophers left the man in the 
street pretty much as they found him. His simple creed might be, 
and was, exploded scores of times ; but he continued to believe in 
it, just because his father and his grandfather and his great-grand- 
father had done the same before him. He never took kindly to 
Vortex‘, and still talked in his unreasoning way of Zeus. If we 


1 Examples are given zfra p. 3 n. 7. 

2 Apollon. Dysk. de constr. or. p. tor, 16 ff. 2 propos of aorpdmre: and the like says 
n To.avrn évépyea TH Act dvaréwrera, cp. et. mag. Pp. 211, 57 ff. ovde yap Bpéxw ey, 
ovdé Bpéxes ov, aNAA Bpéxer Kal xLovifer Kal dorpdmre: O eds... Grav Oé EpwrnuariK@s ery 
Bpéxer; 4 Bpovra; Sart od mpooridnor kal 7d émayduevov; didre eis EoTW 6 TadTa ToLoy, 
TouTéoTwW 0 Beds. 

3 Aristoph. 2b. 366 ff. I quote the excellent rendering by A. D. Godley and 
C. Bailey (Oxford 1905), supplementing it by the addition of line 373. 

4 Mr F. M. Cornford, however, points out to me that the vortex-theory of the philo- 
sophers had at least some foundation in popular belief—witness the ancient and very 
remarkable tablet from Tarragona (fra Append. G). Aristophanes’ words (22. 380 f. 
DQ. WKior’, ANN’ aldépios Stvos. DT. Atvos; rouri pw’ édedr7Oet, | 6 Leds ov« wy, GAN? avr’ 
avrov Atvos yuri Baow\evwv) are meant to suggest not only divy or divnacs, cosmic rotation, 
but also the name of Zeus (schol. ad loc. éyytdev @haBev ard Tod Avds 7d 8voua), with a sly 
hit at dtvos, a round-bellied bowl (cp. 2d. 1468 ff. DVT. val val xaradéoOnre matpa@ov 


Zeus lightens, thunders, rains, etc. 3 


wish to know the sort of thing that was said by common-place 
folk at Athens in the fourth and third centuries B.C., we turn, for 
example, to the extant scraps of Middle and New Comedy. Some- 
body in the AZzthzs of Alexis describes— 

How-just at first Zeus quietly clouds over, 

Then more and more sol. 
Somebody else in a fragment by Menandros says: 

I watch Zeus 

Pelting with rain ?. 
The Characters of Theophrastos tell the same tale. The garrulous 
man, full of truisms and trivialities, observes that ‘if Zeus would 
send rain, the crops would be better* The grumbler is ‘annoyed 
with Zeus, not for not raining, but for raining too late+’ The 
coward on a voyage ‘pops up his head and asks the steersman if 
he is half-way across, and how the weather strikes him*’ Only, 
where we translate ‘the weather,’ the Greek has literally ‘the things 
of the god,’ that is, of Zeus®. 

Phrases such as ‘He rains, ‘He snows,’ ‘He is stormy,’ ‘ He 
grows dark’ alternate with the more explicit ‘God rains,’ ‘God 
snows, ‘God is stormy, ‘God grows dark’ throughout the whole 
range of Greek literature’. Nor did the incoming of Christianity 
banish these reverential expressions. The name of Zeus was indeed 
suppressed’, but the name of God remained and is still to be heard 
in this connexion. Thus, instead of the usual phrase ‘day breaks9,’ 
a modern Greek folk-song in G. F. Abbott’s collection has: 

God brings on day-break”™. 
Ala. | BE. idov ye Ala matpwov: ws apxaios el. | Leds yap Tis Cor ; DT. éorw. PE. ovK 
gor’, ox, émet | Atvos Baoi\ever Tov AV éEedAndakds. | VT. ovk éEeApAaK’, ANN eyw TOOT’ 
@ounv | dua tovrovi tov divoy. olor detharos, | dre Kal oé xuTpeody dvTa Hedy Hynodmnv. 
The last line should not be cut out: it is quite justified by other pot-Zeuses, the Ales 
Krave of Append. H). 

1 Alexis Atthis frag. 2 (Frag. com. Gr. iii. 397 Meineke) af. Phot. dex. s.v. waddov 
MaAXov’...7Gs (as Meineke) émwede? (éruvépe Cobet) ro mp@rov 6 Leds haovxf, | erecta 
bwGov wadXor. 

2 Menand. frag. incert. 306 (Frag. com. Gr. iv. 299 Meineke) ap. Non. Marc. p. 387, 
40 f. rnp@ rov Ala | vovra rodX@. So Porson for rypwrovataroy (voy codd. L BA) rarioxw. 
But W. M. Lindsay, after Turnebus, prints rnp rov Aia | roy alyloxov. 

3 Theophr. char. 18 Jebb. 4 Theophr. char. 22 Jebb. 

> Theophr. char. 27 Jebb. 6 R. C. Jebb on Theophr. Joc. cit. ra Tod Oeod. 

7 Cp. Hat. 4. 50 tec with Hdt. 3. 117 tee ode 6 Geds, Aristoph. vesp. 773 éav dé vig 
with Xen. cyz. 8. 1 drav vipy 6 Og6s, Hdt. 7. rot jucpas yap 6H éxeluage Tpels with Xen. 
oec. 8. 16 bray Xewagn o Oeds, Xen. Cyrop. 4. 5. 5 éwel cvveckétace with Polyb. 31. 21. 9 
ouokordfovros dpre Tov Oeod. See further B. Gerth in R. Kiihner Ausftihrliche Grammatik 
der griechischen Sprache Hannover und Leipzig 1898 U. i. 33. 

5 Supra i. 165 ff. 9 Enuepwver. 

10 G. F. Abbott Songs of Modern Greece Cambridge 1900 Part 2 1. 21 Kal Enuepdver 
0 Oeds 7’ Huepa’. 

I—2 


4 The Diosemta or ‘ Zeus-sign’ 


People say not only ‘it rains?’ but ‘God rains?’ And in a love- 
distich from Crete cited by A. Passow the lover invokes ‘the Lord 
...who sends the cloudy weather and the thunder and the rain®—a 
manifest survival, as B. Schmidt points out*, of Zeus the weather- 
god of pre-Christian days. Other locutions of the kind are collected 
by N. G. Polites®> and reviewed by J. C. Lawson, who concludes: 
‘Such expressions as these are in daily use among the Greek 
peasantry: and nothing could reveal more frankly the purely 
pagan and anthropomorphic conception of God which everywhere 
prevails. The God of Christendom is indistinguishable from the 
Zeus of Homer.’ 


§ 2. The Diosemia or ‘Zeus-sign. 


If Zeus was originally none other than the animate sky, we can 
well understand that any sudden change in his aspect must have 
meant much to his worshippers. Homer speaks of thunder? and 
lightning’, Hesiod of a blood-red rain’, as the sématza or ‘ signs’ of 
Zeus. And the title Semaléos, under which Zeus was worshipped 
on Mount Parnes”, probably implies that omens were there drawn 
from the state of the weather". 

Of kindred import is the term Dzoseméa™, a ‘Zeus-sign,’ which 
may have arisen before Zeus became a fully anthropomorphic deity. 
It is used from the fifth century B.C. onwards to denote anything in 
the nature of an atmospheric disturbance—for example, a sudden 


1 Bpéxet. 

2 Bpéxer 6 Oeds (B. Schmidt Das Volksleben der Neugriechen Leipzig 1871 i. 29). 
Cp. et. mag. p. 211, 57 f. (supra p. 2 n. 2). 

3 A. Passow Popularia carmina Gracie recentioris Lipsiae 1860 Dist. 242 6 képros 7d 
karéxel, éxeivos aro cuvvedid Kn dwoBpovTg Kal Bpéxer. 

4 B. Schmidt of. cet. i. 29 f. : 

° N. G. Polites Anuddes werewpooyixol w000 (extract from Ilapvacoés) Athens 1880 
pp. 10 f., 13, 16 ff. 

6 J. C. Lawson Modern Greek Folklore and Ancient Greek Religion Cambridge 1910 
Pp. 52. 
1 IE. 82a 7ot-, Od. 21. 402: 

® IL. 2. 350 ff., 9. 236 f., 13. 242 ff. Cp. Bakchyl. 16. 52 ff. 

9 Hes. sc. Her. 384 f. 10 Append. B Attike, szpra i. 121. 

1 Cp. Xen. Cyrop. 1. 6. 1 f. Kopos dé... mpocevédmevos ‘Eoria marpwa cai Act rarpdo 
kal Tots ddows Geots wpudro emi riv orpareiav.... émel 5é &w THs olklas eyévovTo, NéyovTac 
aotpamai Kal Bpovral abr@ aicor yevéoOar. TovTwy dé gpavéevtwy ovd€ev dddo ere olwyicduevor 
EropevovTo, ws ovdéva av NiaavTa Ta TOO weylorouv Heod onueia. k.T.’., where onueta is the 
equivalent of the Homeric and Hesiodic ojmara. Similarly, ominous birds and beasts 
sent by Zeus are ovjpara in poetry (//. 2. 308 f., Theokr, 17. 71 ff.), onueta in prose 
(Xen. Cyrop. 2. 4. 10). 

12 Atoonula is the best attested form: see Stephanus 7hes. Gr. Ling. ii. 1340 A—C s.vv. 
Avoonuasta, Avoonucia, Avcoonuetov, Avoonula. 


The Dizoseméa or ‘ Zeus-sign’ . 


storm’. But its scope was gradually widened to include meteoro- 
logical phaenomena of all sorts*, until in the sixth century A.D. 
Ioannes Laurentius the Lydian could reckon as subdivisions of it 
solar and lunar eclipses, comets, shooting stars, lightning, thunder, 
thunderbolts, aerial portents, earthquakes, and conflagrations!® 

The Athenians, we are told, paid special attention to Zeus- 
signs*, which were expounded to them by official Interpreters’. 
When a sign occurred, the public assembly at once broke up‘ and the 
law-courts ceased to sit’. Thus in 420 B.C. the Athenians were on the 
point of making an alliance with the Argives and their confederates. 
‘But,’ says Thoukydides, ‘ before the final vote was taken an earth- 
quake happened, and the assembly was adjourned®. Aristophanes 
in his Women in Parliament mentions as plausible reasons for not 
carrying out a decree: 


An earthquake might befall, 
Lightning might strike, a weasel cross the street, 
And then they’ld stop at once, you dunder-head !9 


The Chorus of Clouds in the play named after them take credit to 
themselves for saving the Athenians from undue haste: 


We who more than all immortals benefit your state and you, 

We alone have no libation, ne’er receive an offering due: 

Yet we save you: when to senseless expeditions you're inclined, 

Then we send you rain and thunder, so that you may change your mind”. 


The allusion in the last line is presumably to the postponement of 
‘ public business occasioned by a Zeus-sign. That is certainly the 
case in a passage of the Acharnians, where Dikaiopolis waxes 
indignant with the Thracians : 


1 Aristoph. Ach. 171 (infra p. 6) with schol. ad loc. (=Souid. s.v. Acoonuela) 
Avoonpla 6€ éoTiv 6 Tapa Katpov xEuwv. 

2 The phaenomena of Aratos is followed by a sequel (lines 733—1154), which deals 
with weather-signs in general and in the later Mss. is entitled Avoonulac or mwpbyvwors. 
This sequel utilised the same source as the treatise wepi cnuelwy wrongly attributed to 
Theophrastos and was itself translated into Latin verse by Cicero under the heading 
prognostica (W. Christ Geschichte der griechischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1911 ii. 1. 124 f. : 
see further G. Knaack in Pauly-Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 395, 397)- 

3 Lyd. de ostent. 4. Here, as 26. 15>, 16, 162, C. Wachsmuth prints dvoonpela, but 
2b. 47 duocnmacia. 

4 Schol. Ray. Aristoph. Ach. 171 (=Souid. s.v. Avcoonpuela) rapepuddrrovro oi ’APnvato 
tas Avoonulas, kat dvé\voy Tas ExkAnolas Acoonulas yevouévns < ? > 7 dAdo Te wéNAovTes 
aview. 

5 Poll. 8. 124 dvicraro 6€ Ta dtkaorijpia, ef yévorro Avoonula: e&nynrai 0 éxadodvTo oi 
Ta mwepl Tay Avoonmiav Kal Ta Tay d\Nwy lepGv SibdoKovres. Similarly the Romans kara 
Tas év Tots Kepavvots Avornueias Tovro.s (sc. the Etruscans) ¢&nyyrats xypGvrar (Diod. 5. 40). 

6 Supran. 4. Cp. zzfra p. 6 n. 3. 7 Supra n. 5. 

8 Thouk. §. 45, cp. Plout. v. Wc. ro. ® Aristoph. ecel. 791 ff. 

10 Aristoph. 7b. 577 ff. 


6 The Dzosemia or ‘ Zeus-sign 


Magistrates, can you stand it? And am I 

In my own country by barbarian hands 

To be thus handled? No, to pay the Thracians 
There shall be no assembly. See, there is 

A Zeus-sign—I distinctly felt a rain-drop'. 


Hereupon the herald without further enquiry terminates the sitting: 


Thracians, begone: come back in two days’ time. 
The magistrates hereby adjourn the assembly”. 

The Dzoseméa doubtless afforded fair sport to the comedian ; 
but to the majority of his fellow-countrymen, as also to the Romans’, 
it was no laughing-matter. ‘When armies gather for battle, says 
Dion Chrysostomos, ‘and a sudden Zeus-sign appears or an earth- 
quake takes place, men straightway turn back and abandon hos- 
tilities, since the gods are against their fighting’’ The suddenness 
of the sign appears to have been an essential feature’. If foreseen, 
it was robbed of its terrors—witness an anecdote told by Polyainos 
the Macedonian : 


Leonidas was about to join battle, when he noticed storm-clouds collecting 
and remarked to the generals that they must not be surprised if it lightened and 
thundered—that was bound to happen in the dog-days. So, when numerous 
Zeus-signs occurred, Leonidas’ men being forewarned held on their way with 
no fears for the future, but the enemy in dire dismay were cowed by the danger 
and consequently beaten®. 


Another name for the meteorological omen was echesamiéa, a 
‘stop-sign,’ and this is defined by Hesychios as ‘a summer drizzle 


1 Aristoph. Ach. 167 ff. 2 Aristoph. Ach. 172 f. 
3 Appian. de bell. civ. 1. 30 6 dé modiriKds GxXAos EBba ws yevouevns ev ExkAnola BpovTis, 
dev ob Bemis etl ‘Pwuators ovdev ere Kupody... ... 6rt obK Eat vomos 6 mpos Blay Te Kal 


BpovTjs avouacuévns Kexupwmévos mapa Ta marpia, Dion Cass. 38. 13 THS yap mavTelas Tis 
dnuoolas ek TE TOU ovpavod Kai EE d\AwWY TLVGY, WoTep ElTrov, moLouLevys, TO MEYyLOTOV KOpos 7 
€x TOD ovpavod etxev, obrws Wore TA wey AAXa oiwvicmara ToAAG Kal Kad? ExdoTny mpakiv, 
éxeivo 6¢ éodmaé él maon TH Hucpa yiyverOat. TodTd Te obv ldubraTov év abTa HY, Kal BTL 
éml wev TOV G\Nwv ardvTwy 7) éwérpeTe TpaxOjvai Tia, Kal éylyvero undevos ert kal’ Exacrov 
olwvicwaros émaryouévou, i) éxwve, Kal avexeplfeTd Tr, Tas de by Tod Sjuov dvaWyndicers 
mdvrws éerioxer, kal nv mpds atras det Arcoonpia, eire évalorov etre eEaistov éyévero (cp. 2b. 
38. 29, 39- 35 39+ 39, 40- 17). 

4 Dion Chrys. ov. 38 p. 138 Reiske kal drav cuvepxopuevwn els udxny otpata@y 7) Avoonuta 
pavy alpvidios } ris ys yévnra ceouds, droorpépovrat evO0s ol dvOpwra Kal droxwpotcw 
am’ add\prwv ws TGv OeGy ob Bovropevwy adrovs udverOat. i 

° This is implied by Od. 20. 112 ff. Zed mdrep,... | 7) meydd’ éBpdyrnoas am’ odpavod 
darepberros, | ovdé rot védos ori: Tépas vi Tew Tbd€ Haivers. Similarly Servius regards a 
bolt from the blue as an omen, but a bolt from the clouds as a natural phaenomenon 
(Serv. 27 Verg. Aen. 7. 141, 9. 630). 

6 Polyain. :. 32. 2. J. Melber ‘Uber die Quellen und den Wert der Strategemen- 
sammlung Polydns’ in the Jahrb. f. class. Philol. Suppl. 1885 xiv. 437 argues that the 
Leonidas of Polyain. 1. 32. 2 f. was not the hero of Thermopylai mentioned in Polyain. 
I. 32. 1, but another Spartan general of the same name. 


The Diosemia or ‘ Zeus-sign’ 7 


or thunder-clap Gossiping history is full of such inhibitions. An 
example or two will suffice. Stabrobates, the Indian king opposed 
to Semiramis, is said to have been immobilised ‘when Zeus-signs 
befell him, intimating—so the seers declared—that he must not 
cross the river®. Agis and his army actually gave up the invasion 
of Attike in 426 B.C. because of a series of earthquakes* and that of 
Elis in 399 for a like reason’. In 388 or 387 Agesipolis marched 
against Argos, when another earthquake happened and his soldiers, 
recalling the action of Agis in 399, were for retiring. Agesipolis 
made excuses and pushed on; but, when further a thunderbolt fell 
in his camp, even he had enough of it and beat a retreat’. Galba 
on quitting his house, early in 69 A.D., to nominate Piso Licinianus 
as his successor encountered, according to Plutarch, ‘great Zeus- 
signs’: his speech in the camp was accompanied by incessant 
thunder and lightning, rain and darkness; obviously heaven did 
not approve of his choice’®. 

Finally, a word may be added about the interpretation of Zeus- 
signs. The instances quoted above show that assemblies, law-courts, 
and armies viewed such signs with alarm and on their occurrence 
were apt to drop the business in hand. This after all was natural 
enough. In civil or military crises, when a superstitious public would 
be on the look out for omens, a sudden deluge of rain might well 
act as a deterrent, and a growl of thunder be taken to portend 
something sinister. What seems really remarkable is that side by 
side with this common-sense, or at least common-place, attitude an 
earlier view of a very different sort held its ground, a view which 


oc 

1 Hesych. s.v. éxecaula: bre Oépous dvrTos Wakaser 7} BpovTy (so cod.: M. Musurus 
Wexdfer 7 Bpovrjon, H. Stephanus Wexdoy, 7 Bpovrycy, J. Alberti Wexdger, 7) Bpovrycer, 
M. Schmidt Waxdfy, 7 Bpovtjoy. I would rather retain the reading dre Oépous dvTos 
Deets i) Bpovrn. In any case cp. Aristoph. zd. 579 f. qv yap 7G Tes €€od0s | ous Eby 
y@, TOT’ 7) BpovTGpev 7) YaxdCouer). 

*Exeoauia appears to be a Doric and perhaps Pythagorean (?) term, formed on the 
false analogy of éxexepla: cp. éxeyhwrria, éxeuvdia, éxeppnuoodvn—three words for 
‘silence,’ of which the first (Loukian. Zex7zph. g) possibly, the second (Plout. de curios. 9, 
Iambl. v. Pyth. 32, 68, 104, 188, 226, cp. 94) and third (Iambl. v. Pyth. 246) certainly, 
were current in the school of Pythagoras (cp. O. Casel De philosophorum Graecorum 
silentio mystico Giessen 1919 pp. 30 ff., 52 ff.). That philosopher is expressly said to have 
discussed Avoonuiae (Porph. v. Pyth. 25, Iambl. v. Pyth. 62). Hesych. Acoonuetov- 
Tepdot.iov onuetov is restored by M. Schmidt as the Doric (Atocapia): Ads onuetov. 
TepdaTiov onmetov to suit the ovdo verborum. 

2 Diod. 2. 19. Philostr. v. Afoll. 2. 33 p. 75 Kayser states that, when the Egyptian 
Herakles and Dionysos invaded India, the sages (Brachmanes) dwelling between the 
Hyphasis and the Ganges Acoonuiats re kal oxnmrots BadXovTes atroKpovovrat opas iepol Kai 
Oeogirels Ovres... Emel © avrol mpoonecay, mpnoripes avrovs amewoavTo Kal Bpovral Katrw 
orpepomevar Kat éumimrovea tots bots, kK. TA. 

3 Thouk. 3. 89, cp. 20. 87. *# Xen. Hel. 3: 2. 24. 

5 Xen. Hell. 4. 7. 4 ff., cp. Paus: 3. 5. 8. 6 Plout. v. Galb. 23, cp. Tac. hzst. 1. 18. 


8 The Dizosemta or ‘ Zeus-sign’ 


regarded the Zeus-sign as positive not negative, hortatory rather 
than minatory. We have reason to think that in the far past Greek 
magicians and kings claimed to be weather-makers. Salmoneus 
with his thunders is the stock example. That primitive belief did 
not pass away without leaving sundry traces of itself in the national 
literature. Among these I would reckon the encouraging thunder-. 
peals! and lightning-flashes® vouchsafed to epic heroes. The kings 
of Troy traced their lineage through Dardanos back to Zeus, for 
whom they had special reverence’, and more than one scion of the 
royal family appears to have been an adept at eliciting Zeus-signs. 
Ilos the grandfather of Priamos prayed Zeus for a sign and found 
next morning the Zeus-fallen Palladion lying before his tent*. 
Priamos asked Zeus for an omen of his favour, and Zeus sent a 
black eagle in response to his prayer’. Hektor too relied on Zeus 
and his lightning-signs*—indeed he himself bore the same title as 
Zeus, for Sappho spoke of Zeus as Héktor’?. Again, when Odysseus 
prayed Zeus for a portent, forthwith there came thunder from a 
cloudless sky*. Similarly in an ode of Bakchylides® Minos, to prove 
that he is the son of Zeus, prays: 

Zeus my father, great and strong, hearken, if in very truth 

Phoinike’s white-armed maid bare me to thee, 

Now send thou forth from heaven a swift 


Flash of streaming fire, 
A sign for all to know. 


Whereupon— 

Zeus great and strong heard that immoderate prayer 

And planted honour infinite for Minos, 

Willing for his dear son 

To make it seen of all, 

Ay, sent the lightning. 
Such scenes imply an underlying belief that the divine king could 
evoke a thunderstorm at will. In early days this would have been 
done, not by a prayer to Zeus, but by mimetic means: nor would 


1 7]. 8. 170 ff., Od. 20. 98 ff., 21. 413 ff. 2 Tl, 2.350 ths, Q2 2301t- 
* I have elaborated the point in the Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 77 f. 
4 Apollod. 3..12. 1. 5 Jl. 24. 283 ff. 6 71. g. 236 ff. 


7 Sapph. frag. 157 Bergk* af, Hesych. s.v."Exropes: méaoadou év pum@ (7. 24. 272 
€oropt with v./. €xrop: in schol. G*, et. mag. p. 383, 26 f.), Dawpw bé Tov Ala, Aewvldns Tov 
Kpoxigavrov, Presumably Zeus "Exrwp was Zeus ‘the Holder,’ cp. mododxos (Plat. lege. 
921 C), Tporasoixos (Aristot. de mund. 7. 401 23), metodxos (C. Wessely Griechische 
Zauberpapyrus Wien 1888 p. 103, 6, F. G. Kenyon Greek Papyri in the British Museum 
London 1893 i. 65 no. 46, 5, supra i. 190), Kepavvodxos (Philon Byzantius de sept. mir. 3)5 
» eknmrodxos (Orph. 2. Zeus 15. 6, Heliodoros apolyt. ad Nicom. 3 ap. Galen. de antidotis 
2. 7 (xiv. 145 Kiihn)). 

8 Od. 20. 98 ff. ® Bakchyl. 16. 52 ff. 

10 Folk-Lore 1904 xv. 311 f. 


The Diosemia or * Zeus-sign’ 9 


the operator have been content to be called the son of Zeus; he 
would have passed for Zeus himself. The epic tradition survived 
into later times. To be struck by lightning was no small honour’; 
to be slain by it meant apotheosis. Euthymos the boxer had a 
statue in his native town, the Italian Lokroi, and another at 
Olympia: both were struck by lightning on the same day—a fact 
which stamped the worship of the living man with the approval of 
Zeus’. Even to a dead man’s tomb lightning added the lustre of 
divinity. According to Plutarch,— 

Aristotle declares that the honours paid to Lykourgos in Lakedaimon were 
less than he deserved. And yet those honours were very great ; for he has a 
sanctuary there, and men sacrifice to him yearly as to a god. It is also said that, 
when his remains were brought home, his tomb was struck by a thunderbolt—a 
thing that has happened to hardly any other famous personage except Euripides, 
who died later and was buried near Arethousa in Makedonia. Indeed, lovers of 
Euripides quote as strong evidence of his merit the fact that he alone after 


death met with the same fate as the greatest favourite of heaven, the holiest 
character of the past#. 


Bianor the Bithynian (c. 17 A.D.), not content with this, makes the 
lightning strike his poet’s grave three times over: 
In Macedonian dust thou liest low, 
But burnt by Zeus o’ the Bolt hast done with clay. 


Thrice flashed his sky, Euripides, and so 
The tomb’s tale of mortality purged away®. 


Among the Romans too the fall of lightning was diversely 
interpreted, being sometimes at least regarded as a presage of good®. 
When a statue of Horatius Cocles in the Comitium was struck, 
Etruscan haruspices bade move it to a lower position, where it 
would never be shone upon by the sun. But for this they were 
denounced and put to death. The statue was promoted to a higher 
place in the Area Volcani, and prosperity resulted for Rome’. In 
172 B.C. the Columna Rostrata, erected on the Capitol to com- 
memorate the sea-fight of 255 B.C., was shattered by a lightning- 
flash at night. The decemvirz ordered a lustration of the city, a 


1 Infra p. 22f. * Infra p. 23 ff. 

3 Plin. zat. hist. 7.152. See further Class. Rev. 1903 xvii. 275. 

4 Plout. v. Lycurg. 31. 

> Anth. Pal. 7. 49 (Bianor) a Maxéris ce Kéxevde Tdov Kévis' adda TupwOels | Zavi 
Kepauvvely yaiav amnudiacas. | Tpis yap émactpayas, Hipimldn, éx Atos aldyp | jyvice Trav 
Qvaray ohuaros ioropiay. In line 2 dmnudiacas, the reading of Planudes, is preferable to 
the conjectures dmnugidow Brunck and Reiske, a¢nyiacas Reiske, admnxGiacas Polak, 
amnOplacas Piccolos, yas dm’ avndOes das Schmidt. 

6 A. Bouché-Leclercq Histoire de la divination dans lantiguité Paris 1882 iv. 46 ff. 

7 Annal. max. 11 (Hist. Rom. frag. p. 5 Peter) and M. Verrius Flaccus rerum 
memoria dignarum 1 (Fest. ed. Miiller praef. p. xiii) ap. Gell. 4. 5. 1—7. 


10 The Dzosemia or ‘ Zeus-sign ’ 


public service of humiliation and prayer, and the sacrifice of larger 
victims both on the Capitol and on the promontory of Minerva in 
Campania; they further directed that games lasting ten days be 
celebrated as soon as possible for Iupiter Optemus Maximus. But 
the haruspices declared that the presage was a happy one, portending 
increase of territory and destruction of enemies’. Shortly before 
the death of Augustus, his statue on the Capitol was struck by 
lightning, and the word Caesar on its base lost the initial C. The 
seers concluded that he would live but C, z.e:a hundred, days longer 
and then become an aesar, z.e. the Etruscan term for a god. One 
of the omens that marked out Antoninus Pius for the throne was 
the following: ‘a thunderbolt fell from a clear sky on his house and 
did no damage®.” Another omen of more doubtful character heralded 
the rise of the elder Maximinus: his lance was split by a thunder- 
bolt, which bisected even the iron blade. The aruspices inferred 
that two emperors called by the same name would spring from his 
house, but would not reign for long’, At Interamna the cenotaphs 
of the emperor Tacitus and his brother Florianus were surmounted 
by two marble portraits thirty feet in height. These statues were 
shivered and scattered by lightning. Thereupon the aruspices pre- 
dicted that a thousand years later a member of the imperial house 
should conquer the whole of the known world and, after resigning 
supreme power to the senate, die at the age of a hundred and 
twenty without leaving an heir behind him® 

Thus the Zeus-sign retained its significance, good as well as bad, 
throughout the classical period of Greece and Rome. Julian, 
writing to Libanios, can still say: ‘From Litarba I went to 
Berroia, and Zeus showed nothing but propitious signs, exhibiting 
his Dzoseméa for all to behold. There I stopped for a day, saw the 
akrépolis, and sacrificed a white bull to Zeus in kingly fashion®’ 

In dealing with Zeus as god of the weather it will be convenient 
to consider separately the evidence that connects him with lightning, 
thunder, earthquakes, clouds, wind, dew, and rain. 


Liv. 42. 20. * Suet. Aug. 97, Dion Cass. 56. 29. 

Iul. Capit. v. Ant. pit 3. 5. 

Tul. Capit. v. Maximin. duor. 30. 2 (v. Maximin. iun. 4: 2). 

Flav. Vopise. v. Tacit. 15. 1—5 (v. Florian. 2. I—5). 

loa: epist. 27 Heyler amd rév AcrdpBwv els thy Béppovay éropevéunr, kal 6 Leds aicra 
TavTa conuyver, evapyi OelEas Thy Atoonulay (Suocnpelay cod. H corr., followed by Heyler 
bts cp. Toul. or. 7 Pp. 212B dtoonperdv). émimelvas d¢ hucpay éxet, Thy axpdroduw eldoy, Kal 
€bvoa 7H Ad Baciixds radpov NevKdv. 


1 
3 
4 
5 
6 


Zeus Keraunés Tr 


§ 3. Zeus and the Lightning. 
(a) Lightning as a flame from the Burning Sky. 


At the very moment when the sky was darkest Zeus vindicated 
his character as ‘the Bright One.’ The brilliant flash that glittered 
for an instant against the lowering storm sufficiently proved his 
presence and his power. 

The Homeric poems use the same set of words to describe 
aithér, sun, moon, stars, lightning, fire. From which fact it has 
been fairly inferred that in popular belief lightning was made of the 
same material as azthér, etc.—was, indeed, but a flame from the 
flaming sky!. Here, as elsewhere, popular belief seems to have left 
its impress on philosophy ; for Anaxagoras regarded lightning as 
a veritable streak of azthér, a fragment of the burning sky that had 
fallen into the lower stratum of aér or cloudy air?, and the physicist 
Milon distinguished two species of lightning, diurnal and nocturnal, 
holding that the former was due to the action of the sun, the latter 
to that of the stars, upon water*, Nay more, the very word astrafé, 
the ordinary Greek term for ‘lightning, itself bears witness to the 
conviction that the electric flash was akin to all other dstra, sun, 
moon, stars, or Saint Elmo’s fire‘. 

Another name for the lightning was keraunds, the ‘destroyer’. 
This is usually translated by the word ‘thunderbolt,’ but must not 
be taken to denote a solid missile of any sort. It means nothing 
more than the bright white flash in its destructive capacity. 


i. Zeus Keraunos. 


Now, if the lightning-flash was part and parcel of the azthér or 
burning sky, it was part and parcel of Zeus. For Zeus in his early 


1 O. Gilbert Die meteorologischen Theorien des griechischen Altertums Leipzig 1907 
pp- 20 f., 619. 

* Id. 1b. p. 622 n. 1 citing Aristot. meteor. 2. 9. 369 b 14 ff., Aét. 3. 3. 4, Senec. mar. 
guaestt. 2. 12. 3, 2. 19- 

3 Stob. ec/. 1. 29. 3 p. 238, 13 ff Wachsmuth, O. Gilbert of. cz¢. p. 637 n. I. 

4 Plat. Crat. 409C ra 8 dorpa eoxe Tis dorpamhs émwvuulay exew x.T.r., ef. mag. 
P- 159, 57 ff., e¢. Gud. p. 86, 32 ff., Eustath. 2 Z/. p. 786, 15 f. Modern philologists accept 
the connexion: L. Meyer Hand. d. gr. Etym.i. 179 dorép- and dorepor), 180 dorparrew, 
Prellwitz Etym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr” pp. 59 f. dornp and dorpamy, Boisacq Dect. étym. 
de la Langue Gr. p. 92 aorpdrn (sic). See further Plin. xaz. hist. 2. 82 and 191. 

° Kepauyés is connected with xepatfew, ‘to destroy,’ by L. Meyer of. cit. ii. 362, 
Prellwitz of. cit. pp. 19, 217, Boisacq of. cit. pp. 435, 440. These authorities cp. Sanskrit 
pdru-h, ‘dart’; Gothic hafrus, Old Norse higrr, Old Saxon heru-, ‘sword’; Middle 
Irish acc. pl. cotve, ‘swords,’—which forms presuppose an Indo-Europaean *herucs, 
‘flint dagger’ (?), but do not warrant the inference that the Greeks originally identified 
the lightning-flash with the thunder-stone (on which see zz/ra § 3 (c)). 


12 Zeus Keraunos 


zoistic stage was the burning sky’. Hence Herakleitos had common 
opinion behind him, when he called his elemental Fire both Zeus 
and Keraunés?. The same identification of Zeus with Keraunds 
accounts for an Orphic hymn, which consists of a prayer to Zeus 
that he will expend his fury on the sea or on mountain-summits 
and leave mankind in peace, but is headed by the title Keraunoi, 
‘of Keraunos*. The equation of Zeus with Keraunds is implied 
also, as H. Weil remarked‘, in the fragment of a Hesiodic 7heogony 
which tells how Zeus swallowed Metis—‘fearing lest she bear a 
second offspring stronger than Keraunos’®.’ The logic of the passage 
and the parallel myth of Thetis® lead us to expect ‘stronger than 
himself. But, since the strength of Zeus is chiefly exhibited in the 
lightning-flash, the poet substitutes the latter for the former. 
Further evidence of Zeus Keraundés came to light in 1868, when 
P. Foucart found at Mantineia a rough block of limestone inscribed 
as follows in lettering of the fifth century B.c. (fig. 1)’: 


AN No 


Of Zeus Keraunés. 
Fig. 1. 





The stone appears to have marked some spot struck by lightning. 


1 Supra i. 25 ff. 2 Supra i. 28. 

* Orph. 4. Ker. 19. 1 Zed warep x.7.d. with the title Kepavvod. The editors, including 
E. Abel, alter this quite arbitrarily to Kepavvlov Acs. A. Dieterich De hymnis Orphicis 
Marburg 1891 p. 19 n. t (= Kleine Schriften Leipzig and Berlin rgrr p. 82 n. 2) and 
I. Usener ‘ Keraunos’ in the Rhein. Mus. 1905 Ix. 3 ff. (= Kveine Schriften Leipzig and 
Berlin 1913 iv. 473 ff.) rightly retain the reading of all the ss. 

4 H. Weil in the Rev. Arch. 1876 ii. sof. 

* Quoted by Chrysippos af. Galen. de Hippocratis et Platonis placitis 3. 8 (v. 351 f. 
Kithn) detoas wh ré&y Kparepwrepov dAdo Kepavvot. Lfra § g (h) ii (x) 

§ Infra § 9 (h) ii (xk). 

7 Lebas—Foucart Peloponnese ii. 209 no. 352 a, P. Foucart ‘Le Zeus Kéraunos de 
Mantinée’ in the Monuments grecs publiés par l Association pour léencouragement des 
études grecques en France No. 4 1875 pp. 23—26 and in the Aull. Corr. Hell. 1878 
ii. 515, Roehl Zascr. Gr. ant. no. 101, Collitz— Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Jnschr. i. 343 no. 1197, 
O. Hoffmann Die Griechischen Dialehte Gottingen 1891 i. 18 no. 5, Michel Recueil 
@Inscr. gr. no. 761, Inscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. no. 288. See also H. Weil ‘Zeus 
Keraunos’ in the Rev. Arch. 1876 ii. 50 f., Immerwahr Kult. Myth. Arkad. p. 25, 
G. Fougéres Mantinée et ? Arcadie Orientale Paris 1898 pp. 221—224, Gruppe Gr. Myth. 
kel. p. 727 N. 5, p. I1I1 Nn. 3. , 


© 


Zeus Kataibates ig 


Such a spot would thenceforward be sacred to the fiery sky con- 
ceived as flashing downwards; in other words, it would be sacred 
to Zeus in the character of Keraunds’. 


ii. Zeus Kataibdates. 


Hardly more advanced is the conception of Zeus that underlies 
his title Katazbdtes, ‘He who descends.’ As far back as the close of 
the seventeenth century this title began to arouse the interest of 
scholars. E. Holthenus in a letter to J. G. Graeevius declared that it 
had nothing to do with thunderbolts, but denoted Jupiter who 
‘descended’ from heaven to enquire into the truth of worldly 
things, to punish sinners, and to benefit mankind. This hasty 
conjecture provoked a reply from P. Burmannus the elder, who in 


1H. Usener in his Gé¢tternamen Bonn 1896—one of the greatest modern works on 
classical religion—argued that Indo-Europaean gods have passed through three stages of 
development, vzz. (1) as ‘Momentary gods’ (Augenblecksgotter), (2) as ‘ Departmental 
gods’ (Sondergitter), (3) as ‘Personal gods’ (fersdnliche Gotter). The first stage is repre- 
sented by such individual and temporary divinities as the elpeotwyvn of the Athenian 
harvester or the spear by which the Arcadian Parthenopaios used to swear: the second, 
by such specific and limited divinities as those of the Roman ixdigztamenta (Varro’s 
di certt) or of ancient Lithuanian cult: the third, by the great personal deities of Greece 
and Italy. Usener (74. p. 286 ff. and more fully in the Rhevw. Mus. 1905 1x. t—30 
= Kleine Schriften Leipzig and Berlin 1913 iv. 471—497) contends that Keraunos was 
first an Augendblicksgott, then a Sondergott, and lastly an attribute of a persdnlicher Gott, 
z7.e. that, to begin with, any and every lightning-flash was regarded as a divinity, that 
next men advanced to the more general conception of one lightning-god, and that finally 
he was absorbed into the larger personality of Zeus. The three stages in the evolution of 
Keraunos would thus be marked by the terms xepavvoi, Kepauvés, and Zeus Kepavvvos. 

With a general criticism of Usener’s far-reaching theory I am not here concerned (for _ 
its validity in the Greek area see L. R. Farnell ‘ The place of the Sonder-Gotter in Greek 
Polytheism’ in Anthropological Essays presented to Edward Burnett Tylor Oxford 1907 
pp- 81—100, and in the Italian area G. Wissowa ‘ Echte und falsche Sodergotter in der 
romischen Religion’ in his Gesammelte Abhandlungen zur rimischen Religions- und Stadt- 
geschichte Miinchen 1904 pp. 304—326), but with its special applicability to the case of 
Zeus Kepavyés. Usener (Rhein. Mus. 1905 1x. 16= Kleine Schriften Leipzig and Berlin 
1913 iv. 484) holds that the very expression Zeus Kepavyds involves an inner contradiction, 
since it unites the last with the first stage of his evolutionary sequence: Zeus had before 
the days of Homer developed into a ersdnlicher Got, the hurler of the lightning ; and, if 
he is here combined with an Augendblicksgott, the particular lightning-flash, we can only 
explain the combination by saying that side by side with the later development of a 
persinlicher Gott the earlier conception of an Augendlicksgott has persisted, clinging with 
amazing tenacity to the actual custom of considering a spot struck by lightning as the 
abode of a divinity. I confess, I find it easier to suppose—though the supposition is 
expressly deprecated by Usener—that in this remarkable inscription not only Aeraundés 
but Zeus too is still in the zoistic stage. If even in the philosophy of a Herakleitos Zeus 
as the fiery sky was equated with Keraunds, a fortiort might we look to find that com- 
bination of primitive ideas in the memorial of an Arcadian rite. On this showing there is 
no inner inconsistency in the title Zeus Kepavyés; and we are of course still free to accept 
Usener’s great theory as to the evolution of Indo-Europaean gods. 


14 Zeus Kataibdtes 


a learned treatise cited most of the evidence both literary and 
monumental, and triumphantly demonstrated the essential con- 
nexion of the title Kazazbates with the lightning-cults of the ancient 
world’. 

The question has, however, been reopened of late by O. Gruppe, 
who propounds a wholly fresh solution of the problem®. Katazbétes— 
we are to suppose—was originally the name of an ancient deity 
dwelling in the depths of the earth and invoked by those who 
desired to conjure up rainy or stormy weather: hence he came to 
be compared with Zeus the lightning-god, and was ultimately 
regarded as himself the hurler of the thunderbolt. In other words, 
a subterranean Katazbdtes preceded the celestial Zeus Katazbdtes. 
In support of this suggestion, Gruppe points out that a Cilician 
inscription of the second century A.D. mentions ‘the god Katazbdtes 
and Phersephone’ together*; that in Rhodes and at Athens, 
according to a scholiast on Aristophanes, Hermes was not only 
Chthénios but also Katazbdtes*; that the same epithet is applied to 
the river Acheron®; and that katabdészon was a word used of an 
underground cavern or chasm at Eleusis*®, Lebadeia’, Aigialos®, 
Hierapolis in Phrygia’, etc.” Indeed, it cannot be denied that the 
title Katazbdtes would be perfectly appropriate to any deity who 
descended into the underworld. Nevertheless, it will be observed 
that the only direct evidence for Katazbdtes as a separate chthonian 
divinity is a Cilician inscription of Roman date, whereas the light- 
ning-flash of Zeus is called katatbdtes by Aischylos as early as 
467-458 B.C." Zeus Katazbdtes himself appears in Greek literature 


' The letter of E. Holthenus (Trajecti ad Rhenum pridie Id. Maj. Mpc xcrx) is 
reprinted from the Bzdliotheca novorum librorum 1699 p. 344 in the second edition of 
P. Burmannus Vectigalia populi Romani et Leds KaraiBarns Leidae 1734 p. 217 ff. 
Holthenus had relied on Ov. met. 1. 211 ff., 2b. 230f., fast. 3. 327 ff. 

> Gruppe Gr. AZyth. Rel. p. 148 n. 3, p. 810, p. 1111 n. 3, p. 1677. 

* L. Deubner in the Ath. Mitth, 1902 xxvii. 263 cites an imperfectly deciphered 
inscription over a rock-cut tomb in a mountain behind Anazarba (Journ. Hell. Stud. 1890 
x1. 239), line 5 reading Oeot KarasBdrov cai Pepoepdvyns. He comments: ‘damit gelangen 
wir in die Unterwelt, der auch der im Blitze niederfahrende Gott (Zeus) angehért.’ 

4 Schol. Aristoph. pax 650. 

> Eur. Bacch. 1360 f., cp. Lyk. Al. go f. “Axepovota rplBos | karaBaris, Ap. Rhod. 
2. 353 f. &Oa wev els "Alda kararBdris éori KédevOos, | dxpy Te mpoBdys Axepovords bWdO 
TELVEL. 

® Asterios homil. to (xl. 324 Migne), cp. Athen. 496 B. 

7 Schol. Aristoph. 2b. 508. 

8 Souid. s.v. ropOujuov. 

® Damask. v. /sid. ap. Phot. 262. p. 344 b 35 ff. Bekker. 

10 See Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. iv. 1024 ¢ s.v. KataBdctov. 

M Aisch. P.v. 358 f. GAN HOev atte ZLnvds d&yputvov BéXos, | kataBdrns Kepavvos 
éxmvéwy proya. So Orph. 2. Ker. 19. 11 f. mpnorfipos | ovpdviov Bédos b&b KaratBarou 
aldardevros, Lyk. Al. 382 f. xaraBarns | oxnmrés, schol. Aristoph. eg. 696 Trav yap 


The altars of Zeus Katasbdtes 15 


from 421 B.C. onwards}, and is by the universal testimony of the 
grammarians and lexicographers the god ‘ who makes to descend’ 
the thunderbolts*. This indeed is not quite exact as a rendering of 
his title, which should rather be the god ‘ who descends’ himself in 
the form of a thunderbolt; but it sufficiently indicates that the 
epithet denoted the fall of the lightning-flash from sky to earth. 


(a) The altars of Zeus Kataibates. 


Zeus Katatbdtes did not often acquire civic importance. But in 
Syria, where the cult of the thunderbolt played a large part’, he 
rose to the rank of a state-deity. Imperial coppers of Kyrrhos 
show Zeus enthroned on a rock* with thunderbolt and sceptre, 
and the legend expressly designates him ‘Zeus Katazbdtes of the 
Cyrrhestians’ (fig. 3)°. Frequentlyan eagle is added at his feet (fig. 4)°. 


kepauvav oi wev KaTaBdrat x.T.d., and without a second substantive Niket. Chon. de /saaczo 
Angelo t p. 471 Bekker ws xaraiBary Trnyevres 7 BpovTas Axw eEarclas mapaxorévtes 7 dv 
voov...dveBaddrovro THY waxnv Kal ékeraccovTo pabiuws. Cp. the Apolline oracle cited by 
. Porph. af. Euseb. praep. ev. 6. 3. 1 (Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 6. 146. 11 f.) obd€ 
pévovow | elovdéew docoior KararBdovov Ards éyxos. 

1 Aristoph. fax 42 (where with H. Sharpley read Avds cxara:Bérovu to point the jest), 
Klearchos frag. 9 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 306 f. Miiller) af. Athen. 522 D—F, Lyk. AZ. 1370, 
Orph. 2. Zeus 15. 6, Apollod. frag. 34 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 434 Miiller) ag. schol. Soph. 
O.C. 705, Cornut. theol. g p. 9, 13 Lang, Aristeid. ov. 1.8 (i. 11 Dindorf), Paus. 5. 14. 10, 
Poll. 1. 24, 9 41, Liban. ov. 15. 32 (il. 131, 11 f. Foerster), Hesych. s.v. KaraiBarns, 
Schéll—Studemunid azecd. i. 265, 266, 274, 282. 

2 Schol. Aristoph. pax 42, Souid. s.v. KaraiBarns Zevs, et. mag. pp. 341, 7 ff., 494, 
AL fe 

3 Infra § 3 (c) iv (€). 

4 Supra i. 124. 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Galatia, etc. p. 133 pl. 17, 4 Trajan AIOCKATAIBATOY 
KYPPHCTQMN with mint-mark B in exergue, Hunter Cat. Coins iii. 134 Trajan, 
Eckhel Doctr. num. vet.? iii. 260 f., Rasche Lex. Mum. ii. 1167 
M. Aurelius, 1168 Commodus, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus 
p- 214 Miinztaf. 3, 16. 

The cult of Zeus at Kyrrhos is attested also by coppers of 
Alexandros i Balas, king of Syria, struck in 148 B.c., which have as 
reverse type Zeus standing with uplifted wreath and an owl at his feet 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Seleucid Kings of Syria p. 56 pl. 16, 14, Hunter 
Cat. Coins iti. 66, Eckhel Doctr. num. vet.” iii. 260, Rasche Lex. 
Num. ii. 1166, Suppl. ii. 349, Head Azst. nam.” pp. 766, 777). I figure a sample in the 
Leake collection at Cambridge (fig. 2). 

6 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Galatia, etc. p. 134 ff. Antoninus Pius, M. Aurelius, L. Verus, 
Commodus (I illustrate p. 135 no. 20 L. Verus[AIOCKATEBAT JOY KYPPHCTQIN 
with mint-mark A in exergue), Hznter Cat. Corns iii. 134 f. Antoninus Pius, M. Aurelius, 
L. Verus, Commodus, Eckhel Doctr. num. vet.” iii. 260 f., Rasche Lex. Num. ii. 1167 f. 
Trajan, Antoninus Pius, M. Aurelius, L. Verus, Suppl. ii. 350 M. Aurelius, Head /ist. 
num.” p. 777- 





16 The altars of Zeus Katatbdtes 


Sometimes the god is seated in his temple (figs. 5, 6). But 





Fig. 5. 


usually the cult was a more modest affair. Thus on the top of 
the hill Perianti in Melos there is a rough rock-cut altar simply — 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Galatia, etc. p. 137 Philippus Senior, p. 137 pl. 17, 6 
Philippus Iunior (=my fig. 5), Water Cat. Coins iii. 135 Philippus Iunior, Anson zm. 
Gr. v. 65 no. 430 pl. 10 Philippus Iunior, Eckhel Doctr. num. vet." iii. 260 f., Rasche 
Lex. Num. ii. 1168 f. Caracalla, Philippus Senior, Philippus Iunior, Suppl. ii. 350 f. 
Elagabalos, Philippus Senior, Philippus Iunior, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 214 f. 
Miinztaf. 3, 17, Head Ast. zum.” p. 777. 

The legend AIOC KA TEB ATOY KYPHCTQOIN involves two peculiarities in 
spelling. The former, KateSdrns for KaraBarns, is very frequent from the time of Trajan 
onward: some specimens struck by Philippus Senior even shorten the title to KreBarns 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Galatia, etc. p. 137 no. 32 AIOCKTE BA TOY KYPHCTQN) 
—I figure a sample in my collection (fig. 6). The latter, Kupyorav for Kuppnorar, is 
common on coins struck by the Philippi, and regular in ecclesiastical and Byzantine 
writers (Smith Dzct. Geogr. i. 737). 

The running ram above the temple was regarded by W. Wroth as ‘a mint-symbol, 
corresponding to the Capricorn at Zeugma, and (perhaps) to the Pegasos at Samosata’ 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Galatia, etc. pp. 1f., 137 n.*). The closest parallel, however, is 
the running ram above the temple of Tyche at Antiocheia on the Orontes (zd. p. 222 
pl. 25, 12, p. 229 pl. 26, 4f.), which ‘has been explained by K. O. Miiller [Azzetequetates 
Antiochenae Gottingae 1839 p. 25] as a sign of the zodiac, indicating the period of the 
year at which the foundation of the city took place’ (W. Wroth 70. p. lix citing J. de Witte 
in the Rev. Num. 1844 p. 11). Possibly the ram, when placed above a building, should 
rather be taken to represent an akrotérion, comparable e.g. with the eagle on coins of 
Seleukeia Pieria (Append. B Syria) or with the more ambitious groups on coins of Berytos 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phoenicia p. 77 f. pl. 10, 4 and 6, p. 81 ff. pl. 10, g—11, Anson 
Num. Gr. v. 54f. nos. 361, 363 pl. 8). If so, it is probable (cp. sfra i. 292 ff. for solar 
akrotéria, i. 346 ff., 428 ff. for solar ram) that this ram was a prophylactic sun-sign. 
Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 215 hazards the very precarious suggestion that it was. 
‘das Symbol der Wolke, aber der fruchtbaren, lichten Wolke.’ 


The altars of Zeus Kararbédtes 17 


insctibed with the Doric name of Zeus Kataibdtas (fig. 7). A rock 
that crops out from the Three Churches field in the same locality 
is probably another open air altar and bears the remains of a 
similar inscription®. Sir Cecil Smith remarks: ‘The exposed and 
prominent position of these two rocks is appropriate to the divinity 
“that descends in thunder and lightning®.”’ Again, an oblong stone 





Fig. 7. Fig. 8. 


altar found below the Agora at Thera is inscribed with the same 
words (fig. 8)4, which—as M. P. Nilsson points out—need not be 
taken to denote that the spot had actually been struck by light- 
ning, but may have served a merely prophylactic or prudential 
purpose’. 

A marble block from Koudiphari near Thalamai in Lakonike com- 


* Sir Cecil Smith in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1897 xvii. 9 no. 22 with fig. (=my fig. 7), 
Inscr, Gr. ts. iii no. 1093, Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Jnschr. iii. 2. 216 no. 4880 Ads 
Karla8da7[a]. 

2 Sir Cecil Smith in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1897 xvii. 8 f. no. 21 with fig., Zzscr. Gr. 
2s. ili no. 1094, Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial. -Lnschr. iii. 2. 216 no. 4881 [Avs Kara}Bdra. 

5 Journ. Hell. Stud. 1897 xvii. 9. 

4 Inscr. Gr. ins. iii Suppl. no. 1360 with fig. (=my fig. 8), F. Hiller von Gaertringen 
Die Insel Thera Berlin 1904 iii. 174 fig. 171 Avs Ka|racBara. 

5 M. P. Nilsson in the Rhezz. Mus. 1908 Ixiii. 315 (‘sein Altar diente so zu sagen als 
Blitzableiter ’). 


Orgy We 2 


18 The altars of Zeus Katazbdtes 


memorates Zeus Kaddtas,a pre-Doric! form of Katabdétas, and adds 
some details as to his ritual (fig.9). The lettering is that of the early 
fifth century B.C., and the dedicator, a certain Gaisylos*, prescribes 
that once in four years an offering of meal (?)* be made to the god. 
The period of this private sacrifice was probably regulated by the 
great public pentaeterts of Zeus Olmpios’. The meal(?) may imply 
the chthonian® nature of a deity, who with his fructifying stroke 
penetrated the dark womb of earth. , 


1 So F. Solmsen ‘ Vordorisches in Lakonien’ in the Rhein. Mus. 1907 Ixii. 329—338, 
comparing Alkm. frag. 38. 2 Bergk? (56. 2 Hiller—Crusius) xaBatywy, Hesych. s.v. 
KaBaor kaTaBnOc. Adxwves, and the like. 

2 Petrides in Iavddpa 1868 xviii. 338, E. S. Forster in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 
1903—1904 x. 171 f., Zuscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. i no. 1316 pl. 1. Cp. Nilsson Gr. Feste 
p- 473 and in the Rhein. Mus. 1908 Ixiii. 313—316, F. Solmsen 24. 1907 Ixii. 329—338. 
I figure the inscription as published by E. S. Forster /oc. cit., amending lines 4 and 5 and 
completing line 6 by the help of the facsimile in Zyscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. i pl. I. 
Forster subsequently informed Nilsson (G7. Feste p. 473) that the 7 of méumra in line 2 
was not missing, but inserted on a smaller scale. W. Kolbe, however, states (Zvscr. Gr. 
Arc. Lac. Mess. i. 245): ‘Neque vero ullum vestigium in ectypo claro agnosci potest.’ 
On this showing the text runs: Aws KaBdra. | réur<r>wr | ferer | Odqy | [a]A7j/v0r. | 
Tahir. 

3 The reading T'achddw is that of W. Kolbe, who cp. Plout. v. Dzon. 49 Taotd\y TH 
Zrapriary. E. S. Forster in a letter to M. P. Nilsson (Gr. este p. 473) had conjectured 
TarBéXo[t] as a second epithet of Zeus: but this, as F. Solmsen (Ahezz. Mus. 1907 xii. 
330) remarks, would at least have been T'acaBédou. R. Meister in the Ber. sachs. Gesellsch. 
ad. Wrss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1905 p. 281 n. 1 suggested I'avafdxo on the strength of Roehl 
Inscr. Gr. ant. no. 79, 9= Roberts Gk. Epigr. i. 262 ff. no. 264, g=Collitz—Bechtel Gr. 
Dial.-Inschr. iii. 2. 10 f. no. 4416, g= Michel Recuezl d’Lnuscr. gr. no. 946, 9=M.N. Tod 
and A. J. B. Wace 4 Catalogue of the Sparta Museum Oxford 1906 p.-64 f. no. 440, 9 & 
Tacaféxw. M. P. Nilsson in the Rhein. Mus. 1908 Ixiii. 314 abandons the search for a 
cult-title and proposes yatéxo[v]}, ‘der Ackerbesitzer’ (cp. Roehl Zzscr. Gr. ant. no. 79, 3 
TloAvdyou), which, as W. Kolbe points out, suits neither the space nor the letters on the 
stone. 

4M. P. Nilsson’s €4]\jhuov, cp. Hesych. ddjovov: mav 7d adyrecuévov (Rhein. Mus. 
1908 Ixiii. 314 f.), is much better than E. S. Forster’s [i]\j/uov for *iAjovov, ‘a propitiatory 
offering’ (?) (Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1903—1904 x. 172), which would necessarily appear 
as [A]Ajhuov, cp. Olympia v. 367 ff. no. 252 =Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Zuschr. iii. 2. 5 f. 
no. 4405= Roberts Gk. Epigr. i. 261 f. no. 261 Aidnfa[s] (F. Solmsen in the Rhezx. Mus. 
1907 Ixii. 330). 

> M. P. Nilsson in the Rhezv. Mus. 1908 Ixiii. 315. 

§ P. Stengel Op/erbrauche der Griechen Leipzig and Berlin 1910 pp. 13—t6 (‘ OvAaé’), 
17—33 (‘Opferblut und Opfergerste’) shows that the Homeric custom of strewing barley- 
grains (ovAal, o¥AdxuTa) on the ground before sacrifice originated in an offering to Ge as 
producer of vegetable life and in post-Homeric times acquired a cathartic meaning (cp. 
P. Stengel ‘OvAai’ in Hermes 1894 xxix. 627—629, H. von Fritze ‘Ovdat’ 2. 1897 — 
XXxli. 235—250, H. von Prott in the Jahresbericht tiber die Fortschritte der classischen 
Altertumswissenschaft 1900 cii. 82f., L. Ziehen ‘OvNxvrac’ in Hermes 1902 xxxvii. 
391—400). 

The use of ground barley-grains or meal was presumably of later origin (so Theophr. 
ap. Porph. de abst. 2. 6, cp. Plout. guaestt. Gr. 6, schol. 77. 2. 410, Eustath. iz Z/. p. 132, 
22ff., Souid. s.v. ovAoburetv—cited by P. Stengel), but of similar significance. Odysseus 
is bidden by Kirke to dig a hole in the earth and to pour drink-offerings for the dead émi 


The altars of Zeus Katarbdtes 1g 


The cult. of Zeus Kataibétes was by no means confined to the 
Dorians. In Paros at the northern foot of Mount Kynados close to 


5’ Agra NevKa maddbvew (Od. 10. 520, cp. Eustath. zz Od. p. 1668, 28 ff.). Initiates into 
the mysteries were sprinkled with meal (Aristoph. 2d. 258 ff. with schol. ad éoc.). The 
xavnpopot had their heads whitened with it (Hermipp. dez frag. 2 (Frag. com. Gr. ii. 389 f. 
Meineke) a. schol. Aristoph. av. 1551, cp. Aristoph. ecc/. 730 ff.). So had the three 
mantic Semnai of Parnassos (2. Herm. 552 ff.: see Mr E. E. Sikes ad Joc. and his 
Append. iii). We hear also of a\euvpoudyrers, adgiroudvress, adgurockdra, KpiOouavTecs 
(A. Bouché-Leclercq Histoire de la divination dans l’antiguité Paris 1879 i. 182 and in 
Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. ii. 299, E. Riess in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Luc. i. 1374, 1637, 
W. R. Halliday Greek Divination London 1913 p. 185, and for mediaeval relics of the art 
W.H. D. Rouse in o/k-Lorve 1899 x. 552). In Kos on the first day of the month Panamos 
(=Boedromion 1) meal was burnt for Hestia Tayia (W. R. Paton—E. L. Hicks 7he 
Inscriptions of Cos Oxford 1891 p. 285 f. no. 401, 8 ff. part of a s¢éle of blue marble from 
Kephalos [...... Ila]ydmou veuynvia* ’All........ J xal ‘Ioria Taula md(a)\[Kodvra (?), adpijrwr 
quiexrov Ka{t]|[.... radra Qelrac eri ras iorlas, Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Déal.-Lnschr. ili. 1. 403 
no. 3731, 8 ff. C. T. Newton Zhe Collection of Ancient Greek Inscriptions tn the British 
Museum Oxford 1883 ii. 104 f. no. 338, 8 ff. read [kpiOé]wy (?) for [aAgpi]rwy in line ro). 
Meal is burnt by the Coan (?) Simaitha as a means of recalling her truant lover (Theokr. 
2. 18 ff. ddqird Toe wpGrov mupl rdxerac’ aAN émimacce, | OeoruN... | waco’ dua Kal éye 
radra* ‘7a Aédgidos dotia mdoow,’ cp. schol. vet. Theokr. 2. 18a Wendel p. 275, 7 f. 
eldbacw ai dapuwaxldes Kexpjoba ddetpas, 18b Wendel p. 275, gf. as Tav wayevovtay 
adqira OvovsGv. tadra dé kal Ou\juara édeyov). It is also repeatedly mentioned by the 
magical fapy77 as an ingredient in binding charms (C. Wessely Gvzechische Zauberpapyrus 
von Paris und London Wien 1888 p. 85 f. pap. Par. 2583, 2586 (both in an érdvaykos 
Néyos), 2647 (in éxOpdv re Ovuiacua), za. Neue griechische Zauberpapyri Wien 1893 p. 38 
Brit. Mus. pap. 121. 548=F. G. Kenyon Greek Papyri in the British Museum London 
1893 i. 101 no. 121, 539 KaTavdyKxns ddevpa (where xaravdyxy is the plant so named), 
C. Wessely Griechische Zauberpapyrus von Paris und London Wien 1888 p. 112 Brit. 
Mus pap. 46. 386=F. G. Kenyon Greek Papyri in the British Museum London 1893 
i. 77 no. 46, 372 (in a charm for procuring an oracular dream), cp. C. Leemans Papyri 
Graect Musei Antiquarti Publict Lugduni-Batavi Leyden 1885 ii. 221 pap. X pag. 6, 29 f. 
tplBovor xpuodv kal | wddLBov Aurira (leg. Nelda) ws &evpa (ina recipe for gilding bronze)). 
The sacrificial use of meal is further attested by the Pythagorean dictum in D. Erasmus 
adagia chil. 1 cent. 1 (ed. Parisiis 1571 p. 20) ne sacrificato sine farina wy Ovew arep 
adgirwy = Plout. v. Mum. 14. cs 

For Latin evidence see e.g. Plaut. Amph. 2. 2. 107 f. te prodigiali Iovi | aut mola 
salsa hodie aut ture conprecatam oportuit, Cic. de div. 2. 37 caput est in iecore, cor in 
extis: iam abscedet, simul ac molam et vinum insperseris, Verg. ec/. 8. 82 sparge molam, 
Aen. 2. (32f. mihi sacra parari, | et salsae fruges, 4. 517 ff. ipsa mola manibusque piis 
altaria iuxta, | ... | testatur moritura deos, 5. 744 f. Pergameumque Larem et canae 
penetralia Vestae | farre pio et plena supplex veneratur acerra, Hor. od. 3. 23. 3 f. si ture 
placaris et horna | fruge (which probably means corn-ears rather than meal) Lares, 19 f. 
mollivit aversos Penatis | farre pio et saliente mica, sat. 2. 3. 199 ff. tu cum pro vitula 
statuis dulcem Aulide natam | ante aras spargisque mola caput, inprobe, salsa, | rectum 
animi servas?, Tib. 1. 5. 13 f. ipse procuravi ne possent saeva nocere | somnia, ter sancta 
deveneranda mola, 3. 4. 9 f. hominum genus omina noctis | farre pio placant et saliente 
sale?, Ov. fast. 1. 337 f. (Jan. g Agonium) ante, deos homini quod conciliare valeret, | far 
erat et puri lucida mica salis, 2. 538 (Feb. 21 Feralia) et sparsae fruges parcaque mica 
salis, 3. 284 (March 1) vinaque dat tepidis farraque salsa focis, 4. 409 f. (Apr. 12 Ludi 
Cereri) farra deae micaeque licet salientis honorem | detis et in veteres turea grana focos, 
Val. Max. 2. 5. 5 im sacrificilis mola quae vocatur ex farre et sale constat. exta farre 
sparguntur, Plin. waz. hist. praef. 11 mola litant salsa qui non habent tura, 12. 83 nec 
minus propitii erant mola salsa supplicantibus, immo vero...placatiores, 18. 7 Numa 





2—2 


20 The altars of Zeus Katazrbdtes 


the church named Panagias Koimesis is a broken base, the upper 
surface of which is holed and inscribed : 


AlOz ‘Of Zeus 
KATAIBATEQ Katatbites, 


Near by lies the s¢ée, which originally fitted into the hole’. At 
Athens too Zeus Katazbdtes was worshipped?. A square base or 
altar of Hymettian marble, built into a later fabric outside the pre- 
cinct of Zeus Olympzos to the north, had the same inscription as the 
altars already mentioned: to judge from the shape of the letters, it 
was erected in the first century B.c.* It is known also that Zeus 
Katatbétes had an altar in or near the Akademeia, where he bore 
the further title of A7dérzos*. Finally, the cult of this deity is pre- 


instituit deos fruge colere et mola salsa supplicare atque, ut auctor est Hemina (frag. 12 
in Hist. Rom. frag. p. 70 Peter), far torrere, quoniam tostum cibo salubrius esset, id uno 
modo consecutus, statuendo non esse purum ad. rem divinam nisi tostum, 31. 89 maxime 
tamen in sacris intellegitur auctoritas (sc. salis), quando nulla conficiuntur sine mola 
salsa, Pers. sat. 2. 75 farre litabo, Lucan. 1. 609 f. iam fundere Bacchum | coeperat obli- 
quoque molas inducere cultro, Mart. ef. 7. 54. 1 ff. semper mane mihi de me tua somnia 
narras, | ... | consumpsi salsasque molas et turis acervos, Sen. de benef. 1. 6. 3 boni etiam 
farre ac fitilla religiosi sunt, 7yes¢. 687 f. non tura desunt, non sacer Bacchi liquor | 
tangensve fusa victimam culter mola, Paul. ex Fest. p. 3, 10 f. Miiller, p. 3, 19 ff. Lindsay 
ador farris genus, edor quondam appellatum ab edendo, vel quod aduratur, ut fiat tostum, 
unde in sacrificio mola salsa efficitur, p. 141, 31 f. Miiller, p. 124, 13 f. Lindsay mola 
etiam vocatur far tostum et sale sparsum, quod eo molito hostiae aspergantur, Serv. zz 
Verg. Aen. 2. 133 sal et far quod dicitur mola salsa, qua et frons victimae et foci asperge- 
bantur et cultri: fiebant autem de horna fruge et horno sale, ut Horatius ‘et horna fruge,” 
interp. Serv. zz Verg. ec/. 8. 82 far enim pium, id est mola casta, salsa, utrumque enim 
idem significat, ita fit: virgines Vestales tres maximae ex nonis Maiis ad pridie Idus 
Maias alternis diebus spicas adoreas in corbibus messuariis ponunt, easque spicas ipsae 
virgines torrent, pinsunt, molunt, atque ita molitum condunt. ex eo farre virgines ter in 
anno molam faciunt, Lupercalibus, Vestalibus, Idibus Septembribus, adiecto sale cocto et 
sale duro. ae 

? O. Rubensohn in the Ath. AMitth. 1901 xxvi. 176 n. 1 Ad{os] | Karai[Bdarjew, Collitz— 
Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Juschr. iii. 2. 177 in note on no. 4762 Ards katrarBdrew, Inscr. Gr. ins. 
v. 1 no. 233 Avds | KatrarBarew. 

* Schol. Aristoph. pax 42 KaraiBdrns 5€ rydrae 6 Leds mapa tots AOnvalois, mapa TO 
kaTapiBacew rods Kepawvods. 7 amd Tov Kepawvay Tav dvwOev mimrdvTwy. 7 amd Too 
KaraBaivew dv épwra tov xOoviwy yuvaik@v (so F. Diibner: cod. Rav. omits the second 
explanation, and cod. Ven. the words map’ ’A@qvaios) =Souid. s.v. KarauBdrns Leds Tap 
"AOnvalos’ mapa To KarapiBdtew Tods Kepauvods. 7% dmd Too kataBaivew Ou’ épwra Tar 
yuvark@v. 


* S. A. Kumanudis in the Eg. ’Apy. 1889 p. 61f. no. 7 [A}ds | [K]Jara:Barov, Corp. 


inscr. Att. iv. 2 no. 16726 -lIOZ | -ATAIBATOY, w. Judeich Zofographie von 
Athen Miinchen 1905 p. 343. 

* Apollod. frag. 34 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 434 Miiller) ap. schol. Soph. O.C. 705 Mopiouv 
Avés: Mépioy Ala etrev rov érédrryy tav moplwy é\aav: Kal €orw 6 Aeyopuevos Mépios Leds 
<mepl’ Akadjuecay> ws pyow "Arrohdbdwpos, ‘mel "Axadjmerdy éorw 6 Te TOO KaraiBdarou 
Avis Bwuds dv Kal Mépiov kadodar ray exe? poplwy mapa Td Tis "AOnvas lepov tdpupévev,” 
K. Wachsmuth in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 3 133, W. Judeich Zofographie von Athen 
Miinchen 1905 p. 365. Jnfra § 3 (b). 

é 


The dbata of Zeus Katatbdtes 21 


supposed by the fact that the spot where Demetrios Poliorketes, the 
would-be Zeus}, first set foot on Athenian soil was consecrated to 
him as Demetrios Katazbdtes*. 


(8) The abata of Zeus Kataibdtes. 


The ground adjoining such altars was sometimes treated as an 
dbaton or holy place ‘not to be trodden’ by profane feet. At Olympia 
near the great altar of ashes was ‘an altar of Katazbdtes Zeus pro- 
tected on all sides by a fence®.’ Built into the ruins of a Turkish 
house to the north of the north-eastern corner of the Parthenon was 
a broken slab of Pentelic marble, which proves the existence of a 
lightning-déazon on the Akropolis at Athens‘: its inscription, which 
appears to date from the latter part of the fourth century B.C., runs 
as follows: 


‘Holy ground of Zeus Katazbdtes*, 


An almost identical inscription was discovered on a fragment of 
marble south of the Akropolis in or near the Asklepieion®. There 
can be no doubt that these data were simply places that had been 
struck by lightning and were therefore regarded as the habitation 
of Zeus Kataibates. The Etymologicum Magnum says that enelysza 
or spots struck by lightning were dedicated to Zeus Katazbdtes and 
spoken of as ddyta or dbata’. Pollux similarly states that enelysza 


1 Folk-Lore 1904 xv. 302 f., supra i. 58. 

2 Plout. v. Demetr. 10 Kai Tov Tomov, brov mp&rov aréBn Tod apuaros, KabtepwoayTes 
kal Bwudv émibévres Anunrplov Kara:Bdrou mpoonybpevoav, Clem. Al. protr. 4. 54.6 p. 42, 
24 ff. Stahlin cal & 0a wév aréBy Tod trou ’APjvage elovwv, KataiBarov lepov éore Anunrpiou, 
Bwpol dé ravtaxov. 

3 Paus. 5. 14. 10 Tov dé KaraiBdrou Aros mpoBéBAnrar wev mavTaxddev mpd TOU Bwmod 
ppayua, éore dé mpds TH Bwuw TH ard THs Téppas TH weyddw. On this passage see 
W. Dorpfeld in Olympia i. 84 (altar no. 31). 

4 A. Lolling in the AeXr. ’Apx. 1890 p. 144 f. suggested that the precinct to which this 
stone belonged might be brought into connexion with the statue of Ge praying Zeus to 
rain upon her (Paus. 1. 24. 3) and the rock-cut inscription of Ge Kaprogédpos (Corp. enscr. 
Alt. iii. 1 no. 166). W. Judeich Zopographie von Athen Miinchen 1905 p. 255 is content 
to say: ‘Mit Wahrscheinlichkeit diirfen wir auf der Burg...ein Heiligtum des Zeus 
Kataibates vermuten.’ 

5 AeXr. Apx. 1890 p- 144 no. 1 Ards Kal[r]|auBdro[v] | dBarov, Corp. inscr. Att. iv. 2 
no. 1659 6, Michel Kecuedl d’Inscr. gr. no. 748, Dittenberger Sy//. tnscr. Gr.? no. 577- 

6 J. Delamarre in the Rev. Phzlol. 1895 xix. 129 f., S. Reinach in the Rev. Arch. 
1895 il. 234, Corp. mmscr. Att. iv. 2 Add. no. 1659 e, Michel Recaezl a’Zuscr. gr. no. 747 
[Acjo[s Karac]|Bdro: “ABLarov]|iepdv, Dittenberger Sy//. zuscr. Gr.2 no. 577 n. 1 [Acld[s 
Karat]|Baro dB[arov]|tepdv. The inscription was found south of the Akropolis: Ditten- 
berger by an oversight says ‘ad radices septentrionalis arcis Athenarum.’ 

7 Et. mag. p. 341, 5 ff. évmdvowa* evdxivnra. Kal HAvow- Thy édevow (we should perhaps 
read evxivnra, mapa Thy HAvow Tip édevow). Aloxros év’Apyelorss Kazraveds ov (woe F.) 
KataNelmerat owrots axépavvos apotpwr (apopwv D.F.P., dpOpwr M. Schmidt) érndvolwy 
(évmdvolwv Stanley) amé\urev (A. Nauck prints as Aisch. frag. 17 Karavets uo xara- 


23 The Zeus-struck man in Elysium 


were places on to which a bolt from the sky had dashed down or 
descended, that the Zeus of the bolt was called Katazbdtes, and that 
such places were fenced round and left untouched’, Artemidoros 
adds that altars were erected there and sacrifices offered?. 


(y) The Diébletos or Zeus-struck man in Elysium. 


Spots where Zeus had descended in the form of lightning were 
known, not only as exelysia, but also as edysza*. Fenced about from 
the foot of common mortals and reserved for Zeus himself, they were 
both in name and in nature so many ‘ Elysian fields*’ Consequently 
a man struck by lightning was literally eeljszos, ‘in Elysium®. To 
modern ears it sounds a grim jest to talk of Elysium in such a case. 
But, after all, the attitude of the ancients was thoroughly consistent. 
Zeus fell as a lightning-flash. The man on whom he fell was there- 
fore Didbletos or Dioblés, ‘struck by Zeus®.” And the divinity thus 
conveyed to him made him immortal, or at least imperishable—wit- 
ness Plutarch : 


We all know well enough that the bodies of those who are struck by lightning 
do not decay. Many persons neither burn them nor bury them, but just fence 
them round and leave them, so that their corpses are seen in a State of perpetual 


Nelrerar | Nourots dxépauvos dpOpwy | émnvoluy dmédurev, but notes ‘locus corruptissimus’). 
ol 6€ Ta KatacKknpbévta. otirws eis Td ‘Pyropixdv. eis dé Tods "ETumoddyous ebpov...€vniaca* 
évnvova Néyerar els a Kepauvos elaBEBnxev: a Kal avariberac Avi KaraiBarn, Kal déyerac 
adura kal aBara. Cp. Hesych. s.v. évndioua: Ta xaracknpbévra xwpla <évyn (add. M. 
Musurus)> vow Aéyovrat: evioe Sé evKivynTa, Tapa THY <HArvow TH (add. M. Schmidt) > 
éXevow: Gdor O€ Tas ev Tots ABdros Ywplors dprdpuuévas vUudas. 

1 Poll. g. 41 Ta mévroe Evnriova otTws wvoudfeTo els a KaTacKnWere Bédos EE ovpavod, 6 
kal evoxqyat kal éykatraokqyat kal KaTedOe edevov, kal rov Ala Tov em’ ait@ KaraiBdrnv. 
meprepxOévra 5€ Ta éevnvora GWavora avetro. The expression Tov Ala roy éx’ ai’t@ denotes 
strictly ‘the Zeus set over it’ (the bolt). 

2 Artemid. ovezrocr. 2. 9 6 Kepauyds Ta pev donua Tov xwplwy érionua Tove’ dia Tods 
évidpuuévous Bwwods kal ras év av’rots ywoudvas Ovoias, TH Oé wodvTEAH Xwpla epnua kal 
dBara movet, ovdeis yap év avrots évd.arpiBew ere Oédeu. 

3 Hesych. s.v. 7Avovov’...d\Noe Kekepauvywuévoy Xwplov 7 medlov: Ta bé ToadTd ciow 
&Bara, kadetrat d€ kal évniora: ILohéuwv dé ’AOnvaious Pyot kal dddor Tives TO KaTATKaper 
xXwplov 7 iepdv (regarding kal d\Xox Twes as a gloss on Ilohéuwv, karacxadév with L. Kiister 
as a blunder for xatacxnpdév, and 7 lepdy as a gloss on xwpiov, we may emend IloAéuwy 
dé ’APnvalovs pyst TO KaracKknpbey Xwplov jrwovoy Kadeiv) = Souid. s.v. HAvovov = Phot. /ex. 
5.U. NAUoLoV, Cp. et. mag. p. 428, 30 ff. See further G. Bernhardy on Souid. /oc. cz¢. and 
C. Miiller on Polemon frag. 93 (Arag. hist. Gr. iii. 146)=frag. 5 (Frag. gr. Kultschr. 
p- 89 Tresp). 

4 The lexicographers cited in the preceding note state that ’HAvouor is, according to 
some, Kekepawvwpevov xwpiov 7 medlov. Eudok. vzo/. 438 in her account of the Elysian 
plain repeats the statement: of d€ 7d Kexepavywuevwr xwplov 7 mediov. L. Meyer Hando. 
d. gr. Etym. i. 640 is not averse from connecting ’HAvc.or, ‘ Elysium,’ with 7rdvovor, 
‘a spot struck by lightning.’ 

° Hesych. s.v. évnAvovos: éuBpbyrnros. KkepavydBdnrTOos. 

6 Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. ii. 1508 c s.vv. AvoBdAns, AcéBAnTos, AtdBoXos. 


Death by lightning as euthanasia =. 23 


incorruption... I imagine too that the divine substance [sulphur] gets its name 
from the likeness of its smell to the fiery and pungent smell rubbed out of things 
hit by lightning; and it seems to me that this is why even dogs and birds 
abstain from the bodies of those who have been struck by Zeus1. 


Others inform us that victims of lightning were buried on the spot 
where they fell?. Artemidoros says that a man so struck down, even 
if poor, became suddenly famous. If a slave, he had fine clothing 
put upon him, as though he were freed, and men approached him as 
one honoured by Zeus. Nay more, every man struck by lightning 
was treated as a god*. 


(6) Death by lightning as euthanasia. 


In this connexion it should be observed that various myths 
represent death by lightning as a kind of euthanasia*, Kapaneus, 
when struck, becomes ‘a sacred corpse®’ and receives ‘a sacred 
tomb®. His pyre is described as ‘ Zeus’ treasury?’—a remarkable 
phrase, to which H. Usener has justly drawn attention’. When 
Herakles’ pyre had been kindled, thunderbolts fell from the sky and 
consumed it: his friends, finding no bones, concluded that he had 
gone from men to join the gods, and thereupon worshipped him as 
a hero®. Asklepios was struck by a thunderbolt from Zeus, and 


1 Plout. symp. 4. 2. 3. 

2 Artemid. ovetrocr. 2. 9 ot} yap ol KepavywOévres perariBevtat, GAN Srrov av vo TOU 
mupos KatahnpdGow évraida Oamrrovra. A law of Numa Pompilius enjoined that a man 
killed by lightning should not be lifted higher than the knees, and should not have funeral 
rites (Fest. p. 1786 20 ff. Miiller, p. 190, 7 ff. Lindsay itaque in Numae Pompili regis 
legibus scriptum esse: ‘si hominem fulminibus (Scaliger cj. fulmen Tovis) occisit, ne 
supra genua tollito (C. O. Miiller cj. tollitor).’ et alibi: ‘homo si fulmine occisus est, ei 
iusta nulla fieri oportet.’ Cp. Plin. zat. Ast. 2. 145 hominem ita exanimatum cremari 
(so codd. E.? p.: cremare codd. F. R.d.T.) fas non est, condi terra religio tradidit). 

3 Artemid. onetrocr. 2. 9 érel kal 6 kepavvwbels aipvidsoy mapacnudrepos ylyverat...kat 
égackor ecivar dyabdy Sovdots TO Kepavvotcbat, dre otre deaméras Ere of KepavywhévTes Exovow 
ore Kdvovot, Aaumpa b€ iudria avrots mepiTlferas ws Kal Tols EMevOepwHetot, Kal mpociacw 
avrois ws bd Aos Teriunuévors of dvOpwror ws Kal Tots EXevdepwOciow bro JecroTay Teriuy- 
pévos (J. G. Reiff ad doc.: ‘Ita cum Cod. B scripsi, qui tamen pro mepiri@erae habet : 
émiti@erac. Libri hunc locum ita habebant: Naumpa Sé iudria adbrots mepiriBerar ws bd 
duds Teryunuévors.’)...ovdels yap Kepavvwhels Ariuds eorw. sev (Sov cod. B.) ye Kal ws 
Beds Tyarar. Cp. Kyrillos Zatech. 13. 37 modvpabiys yevouevos...€mearouife...’ENAqvas éx 
Tov map’ abrois pvOodoyoumévwy. avrol Kexepavywuévous mpockwvolow. Kepauvds dé éf 
ovpavay épxouevos ovK dxpirws épxeTar. ed Exeivor Tovs KepauvvwhevTas Deomioets mporKuVoUYTES 
ov« aloxivovrat, ov Tov Deogid} Kal vidv Beod Tov éoTavpwuevoy UrEp God TpocKuvEly alcxUvy; 

+ Rohde Psyche? i. 320 ff. _ © Eur. suppl. 935 tpdv ws vexpdv. 

6 76. 981 TéuBov A lepév. 

7 7b. 1010 Avos Onoavpév. F. Wieseler, followed by N. Wecklein, cj. dpvos @noavpdv— 
a pointless alteration. Kapaneus, struck by the lightning, is charged with divinity and 
treated as a Zeus incarnate. 

8 H. Usener in the Rhein. Mus. 1905 |x. to. 

9 Diod. 4. 38. 


24. Death by lightning as euthanasia 


subsequently apotheosised'. Erechtheus, slain by Zeus with a 
thunderbolt at the request of Poseidon’, was venerated as a god in 
the Erechtheion at Athens. Romulus likewise was caught up to 
heaven in a thunderstorm, and afterwards appeared to Proculus 
Julius in more than mortal beauty and announced that he had be- 
come the god Quirinus*. And sundry kings, who posed as Zeus or 
Iupiter during their life-time, are said to have met their death by a 
thunderbolt launched from the hands of the offended deityt—a 
moralising statement which has probably obscured the real signifi- 
cance of their fate®. 

Semele too was blasted by lightning (pl. i and figs. 1o—12)® 





Fig. to. 


* See Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 1654. Note especially Min. Fel. Oct. 22. 7 
Aesculapius ut in deum surgat fulminatur. 

* Hyg. fab. 46. See infra § 3 (c) iv (y). 

3 Liv. 1. 16. 1 ff., Ov. fast. 2.475 ff., Plout. v. Rom. 27 f., Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 2. 
56, ald. 

* So Salmoneus (fra Append. M), Periphas (ézfra Append. M), Romulus Silvius 
(Ov. met. 14. 617f., cp. Dionys. ant. Rom. 1. 71). 

5 Infra Append. M. 

® Vase-paintings that portray Zeus, brandishing a thunderbolt, in pursuit of a terrified 











Amphora from Nola, now in the Britil 








Plate | 





eum: Zeus in pursuit of Semele. 


See page 24. 2. 6 (1). 


—_ 





WoT DE 


Kratér in the Louvre: Zeus in pursuit of Semele. 
See page 24 n. 6 (4). 


Plate Il 





~~, . 
= 
rd 
aS 
= 
« 
. 


— 





Death by lightning as euthanasia 2 


female may with much probability, if not with absolute certainty, be held to represent his 
appearance to Semele. Such are the following:—(1) An amphora of the strong style 
(500—460 B.C.) from Nola, now in the British Museum (Sr7¢. Mus. Cat. Vases iii. 222 f. 





Big. Irs 


no. E 313, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 401 n.*, O. Jessen in Roscher Lex."AZyth. 
iv. 676. My pl. i is from photographs by Mr C. O. Waterhouse) : (a) Zeus, with chi/én and 
himdtion, strides to right, brandishing a thunderbolt in his right hand and grasping a 





sceptre in his left; (4) Semele runs to right, looking back with gestures of alarm. (2) A 
hydria from Gela, in the Museum at Palermo (H. Heydemann in the Arch. Zeit. 1870 
XXVill. 43 no. 23 pl. 31, 1 (=my fig. 10), za. Dionysos’ Geburt und Kindheit (Winckel- 


26 Death by lightning as euthanasia 


mannsfest- Progr. Halle 1885) p. 7, Overbeck of. czt. p. 416 no. 1 Atlas pl. 6, 5, Reinach 
Rép. Vases i. 408, 1, O. Jessen loc. cit. iv. 676): Zeus, with chztén and himdtion, strides 
to right, brandishing a thunderbolt in his right hand and grasping with his left the shoulder 
of Semele, who runs to right, looking back in alarm. (3) A bell-4a¢ér from Certosa, in 


somagy 
3) 





Fig. 13. 


the Museo Civico at Bologna (Pellegrini Cat. vas. gr. dipint. Bologna pp. 154, 156 no. 313 
A. Zannoni Git scavi della Certosa di Bologna Bologna 1876 p. 165 pl. 29, I, 2 (=my 


fig. rr), 3 (=my fig. 12), 4 and pl. 40, 4, H. Heydemann Dionysos’ Geburt p. 8 n. 20, 
O. Jessen loc, cit. iv. 676): (a) Zeus, with olive-wreath and chlamys, strides to right, 


Death by lightning as euthanasia =. 27 


The critical moment in her myth is variously reported by the 
mythographers. According to Apollodoros!, Semele begged Zeus to 
appear to her in the same form in which he had wooed Hera. There- 
upon Zeus came to her chamber on a chariot with lightnings and 
thunders, and hurled a bolt. Semele in terror gave untimely birth 
to Dionysos and died. Other accounts say nothing about the 
chariot: Semele could not support the sight of Zeus the god of 
thunder and lightning, and was killed by it?) Others, again, are more 
precise. Semele was burnt’, or actually struck by a thunderbolt and 


brandishing a thunderbolt in his right hand and grasping a sceptre in his left. Semele 
flees to right, looking back, her right hand extended towards Zeus in an attitude of 
supplication, her left holding a flower. Behind Zeus a female companion of Semele, 
likewise holding a flower, escapes to left. (4) Two other companions of Semele hasten, 
from left and right, to announce the event to her father, Kadmos. (4) A ratér (lid lost) 
in the Louvre (G 412), past the climax of the fine style (460—440 B.c.) and largely 
repainted (H. Heydemann Dzonysos’ Geburt p. 8 n. 21): (a) Zeus, with bay-wreath and 
chlamys, strides to right, brandishing a thunderbolt in his right hand and grasping a 
sceptre in his left. Semele flees to right, looking back; she lifts her c7¢éz with her right 
hand and raises her left towards her shoulder. Behind Zeus a female companion of 
Semele escapes to left. Before Semele stands her white-haired father, his right hand 
raised in astonishment, his left holding a staff. (6) Four men and women conversing. 

The type attested by these vases begins as a mere combination of the early striding 
Zeus (seupra i. 84 ff. figs. 52—54) with the early running maiden. The eagle of Zeus is 
omitted, and his left hand either holds a sceptre (27z/ra § 3 (c) iv (a)) or grasps the shoulder 
of Semele. Next, under the influence of flower-plucking scenes (Europe, Thaleia, etc.), 
Semele is given a flower, while a comrade likewise holding a flower forms a suitable 
pendant. Finally, the group is amplified by the introduction of Kadmos and other figures, 
either on the reverse or on the obverse of the vase. 

Vases that represent Zeus pursuing the female with lowered bolt cannot be assumed 
to depict the Semele-episode; for the bolt may be a mere attribute. Z.g. an amphora 
formerly in the possession of the Neapolitan dealer Barone (J. de Witte ‘Jupiter et 
Sémélé’ in the Rev. Arch. 1862 ii. 29 f. fig. Zeus, with ch/amys worn shawl-wise, holding 
a thunderbolt in his lowered right hand, a sceptre in his left, pursues towards the right 
a running female, who looks back with gestures of alarm), a large hydréa from Vulci now 
at Paris (De Ridder Cat. Vases de la Bibl. Nat. ii. 331 no. 439 confused description, 
P. Milliet—A. Giraudon Vases peints du Cabinet des Médailles & Antiques (Bibliotheque 
Nationale) Paris 1891 vit classe, xi® série ii pl. 75 =my fig. 13 Zeus, with myrtle (?)-wreath 
and chlamys worn shawl-wise, holding a thunderbolt in his lowered left hand, advances 
towards the left and seizes with outstretched right hand a running female, who looks back 
with gestures of alarm and supplication), and other vases noted by H. Heydemann 
Dicnysos Geburt p. 7 n. 18. 

The brown paste at Berlin usually cited in this connexion (G. Winckelmann JWonz- 
menti anticht inediti? Roma 1821 ii. 1. 2 f. pl. 1, T. Panofka Dionysos und die Thyaden 
(extr. from the Adz. d. berl. Akad. 1852 Phil.-hist. Classe p. 377 ff.) Berlin 1853 p. 36 ff. 
pl. 3, 4, Miiller—Wieseler Denkm. d. alt. Kunst ii. 24 pl. 3, 46%, C. W. King Aztique 
Gems and Rings London 1872 i. 483 fig. =Sir John Sandys Zhe Bacchae of Euripides* 
Cambridge 1892 pp. cxxxiif., 1 fig., etc.) represents neither Zeus nor Semele: see Furt- 
wangler Geschnitt. Steine Berlin p. 227 no. 6219 pl. 42, id. Ant. Gemmen i. pl. 36, 20, 
iis 175, 11. 416 n. 2. 

1 Apollod. 3. 4. 3. 

2 Diod. 3. 64, Lact. Plac. z# Stat. Zheb. 1. 12, 2. 292, Myth. Vat. 2. 79. 

3 Hyg. fab. 179, Lact. Plac. zz Stat. Thed. 4. 673, Myth. Vat. 1. 120. 


28 Death by lightning as euthanasia 


slain. The earliest definite version of the occurrence is in the 
Bakchai of Euripides, who speaks of— 


Semele brought to bed by the lightning-fire” 


and further of— 
The flame of Zeus-fire living yet®. 


These expressions may be taken to imply the more primitive idea 
that Zeus descended upon Semele in the form of a lightning-flash. 
And such seems to be the conception of Philostratos also. For, in 
describing a picture of Semele’s death, he notes the personified figures 
of stern-looking Thunder and Lightning with flashing eyes, and 
adds that fire was dashing down from the sky upon the palace, but 
makes no mention of Zeus beyond saying that ‘A cloud of fire 
compassed Thebes about and burst upon the roof of Kadmos, when 
Zeus went courting Semele*’ Nonnos too in his high-flown style 
makes Semele beseech her lover: 


Oh, I would clasp the flame I love, and joy 
To feel the flash, to finger thunderbolts®. 


The same author goes on to tell how Zeus took the bride whom he 
had burnt to dwell with him in heaven : 


Yea, with pure gleaming fire she laved afresh 
Her form and won Olympos’ endless life®, 


As Pindar had phrased it, nearly a thousand years before,— 


She lives among the Olympians, slain by the roar 
Of lightning, long-haired Semele, 

And Pallas loves her ever, 

And Zeus the sire too, and his ivied son’. 


Semele was in fact a typical Dzddletos. The Naxians declared that 
Zeus ‘struck Semele with a thunderbolt before she brought forth 
her child, in order that being born, not of a mortal mother, but of 
two immortal parents, he might be immortal from his birth®.’ Charax 
of Pergamon, a historian of the second or third century A.D., is even 
more explicit : ‘When the thunderbolt fell and she gave birth, she 


1 Hyg. fad. 167, Lact. Plac. iz Stat. Zhed. 2. 71, 3. 274, 9- 425, Myth. Vat. 1. 151, 
2. 


~ 
ie} 


Eur. Bacch. 3 Leuéhn Noxevdeio’ aorpamrnpdpw tupl, cp. 2b. go. 
Eur. Bacch. 8 Alou rupds ért Saoav Prbya. 
Philostr. mai. zmage. 1. 14. 1 f. 
Nonn. Dion. 8. 310 f. 
Td. 1b. 8. 413 f., cp. Aristeid. or. 4 (i. 47 Dindorf) 6 Zeds...ryv péev Deuérnv ex ris 
yijs els Tov "Ouprrov Koulver dua mup6s, K.T.A. 
7 Pind. O/. 2. 27 ff., cp. Pyth. 1. 1. 


8 Diod. 5. 52. On the sources of Diodoros’ fifth book see E. Schwartz in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. v. 678. 


2 
3 
4 
5 
6 


The Tarentine cult of Zeus Kazaibdtes 29 


disappeared, but the babe survived. So, as is said in the case of 
Didbletoi, people supposed that she had met with a divine fate and 
called her Thyone. Her child, having been saved from the fire, was 
most divine: Kadmos looked after him and gave him the family 
name of the Egyptian Dionysos?’ 


(ec) The Tarentine cult of Zeus Kataibdates. 


A remarkable example of the cult of Zeus Katazbdtes is that of 
Tarentum”. Klearchos, a pupil of Aristotle, states* that the Taren- 
tines, having overthrown Karbina, a city of the lapyges, and exposed 
the boys, girls, and young women of the place to the grossest out- 
rages, were visited by the vengeance of heaven. All who had 
offended at Karbina were struck by lightning. The Tarentines 
therefore erected in front of their doors a number of pillars cor- 
responding to the number of the men who failed to return from the 
expedition into lapygia*. These pillars were still to be seen before 
each house in Tarentum ; and, when the season of their destruction 
comes round, the Tarentines, instead of lamenting the dead or 
pouring the customary libations, offered sacrifices on the pillars to 
Zeus Kataibdates. Here it is fairly obvious that death by lightning 
is regarded not as a disaster, but as an honour: funeral lamenta- 
tions and libations were out of place. But who—we ask further— 
was the god that conferred this doubtful honour? The Tarentines 
certainly called him Zeus Katazbdtes. Yet the form of his worship, 
a pillar-cult, is not elsewhere attested for Zeus Katazbétes. It 
points rather in the direction of Crete. One would like to know 
what the Iapyges themselves said about it. Most fortunately 
Athenaios, to whom we owe the excerpt from Klearchos, goes 
on to tell us more concerning the Iapyges®. Probably he is 


1 Charax frag. 13 (frag. hist. Gr. iii. 639 Miiller) af. anon. de zncredib. 16 p. 325 
Westermann. 

2 On the various cults of Zeus at Tarentum see R. Lorentz De rvebus sacris et artibus 
veterum Tarentinorum Elberfeldiae 1836 p. gf. Szpra i. 35 ff., 520 n. 2, 521 n. I, 2nfra 
§ 3 (a) ili (A). 

3 Klearch. frag. 9 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 306 f. Miiller) af. Athen. 522 0D ff. 

4 Athen. 522 F kal wéxpe kal viv év Tapayre éxdoryn Tov olkiGy, ods obx bredéEavTo Tay 
els lamvyiav éxreupbdvtwyv, Tooa’ras exe oTHAas mpd Tov Oupav* éd’ ais Kab’ dy arwdovTo 
xpbvov ovr’ oixrifovrar Tos amorxoudvous ore Tas vouluous XéovTaL Xods, dANA Bvovar Ail 
KaraiBdary. For cod. A ods ov7x tredéEavro J. Schweighaeuser, after Musurus, reads dcous 
bredéEavto, and W. Dindorf ods bredéEavro. This would mean that every man not killed 
set up a pillar on which to do sacrifice to the god. But M. P. Nilsson in the Rhein. Mus. 
1908 Ixiii. 315 justly defends the reading of cod. A on the ground that the bodies of men 
struck by lightning would be left on the spot and not brought back home (szra p. 22 f.). 

5 Athen. 522 F—523 B. 


30 The Tarentine cult of Zeus Kataibdtes 


again borrowing his information from Klearchos, who was one of 
his prime sources. 


‘This race of the Iapyges,’ he continues, ‘is derived from Crete. Cretans 
came to look for Glaukos and settled down here. Their descendants, forgetting 
the orderly life of the Cretans, reached such a pitch of luxury, and subsequently 
of insolence, that they were the first to paint their faces, to get front locks and 
side locks of false hair, to wear flowered robes, and to deem work and labour a 
disgrace. Ordinary citizens made their houses more magnificent than the 
temples ; while the principal men of the Iapyges, treating the deity with insult, 
destroyed the statues of the gods out of the temples and bade them give place 
to their betters. Wherefore they were struck by fire and bronze from the sky, 
and the fame of it was spread abroad; for bolts from heaven forged of bronze 
were long to be seen!. And to this very day all their descendants live shaven 
to the skin and wearing the garb of mourners, in want of all the luxuries that 
were theirs before.’ 


Now lapyx the eponym of the Iapyges was commonly said to 
have been the son of Daidalos?; and there is a consistent tradition 
to the effect that, when Minos was killed at Kamikos in Sikania, 
the Cretans after an ineffectual attempt to take the town were 
driven by stress of weather to land in lapygia, where they built 
Hyria and became the Iapyges Messapioi*. In view of this tra- 
ditional connexion between the Iapyges and the Cretans of the 
Minoan age, it is interesting to find Athenaios giving a description 
of the Iapyges which with curious exactitude suits the ‘ Minoans.’ 
Their painted faces‘, their artificial front locks® and side locks’, 
their flowered robes’, the magnificence of their houses as contrasted 
with their shrines’, are all points of resemblance. Last but not 
least, the ‘bolts from heaven forged of bronze’ must surely be 


1 The text is dcérep €& ovpayod Baddduevoe Tupi kal xaAK@ Ta’Tnv diedocav Thy Phunv- 
eupara yap nv méxpe moppw Kexadkevuéva Tav ef ovpavod Bed@y (so codd. A.B.P.: Bohay 
codd: Walk. )e 

* Strab. 279, Plin. mat. hist. 3. 102, Solin. 2. 7, Mart. Cap. 642, cp. Cornificius 
Longus (on whom see G. Wissowa in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Euc. iv. 1630 f.) ap. interp. 
Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 3. 332. 

3 Hat. 7. 170, Strab. 279, 282, cp. Diod. 4. 79. Brundisium also, according to one 
account, was founded by these Cretans, or by Theseus’ company from Knossos (Strab. 
282, Myth. Vat. 2. 125, schol. Bern. Lucan. 2. 609): the town took its name from a 
Messapian word for ‘stag’s-head’ (Strab. 282, Steph. Byz. s.v. Bpevtjovov, Hesych. s.z. 
Bpévdov = Favorin. dex. p. 388, 16, et. Gud. p. 115, 3 ff., e¢. mag. p. 212, 23 ff., schol. 
Bern. Lucan. 2. 609 ‘ brunda’ with H. Usener ad /oc.). See further R. M. Burrows Zhe 
Discoveries in Crete London 1907 p. 12 f. 

* Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1900—1901 vii. 56 fig. 17. 

5 Sir A. J. Evans oc. ctt., A. Mosso The Palaces of Crete and their Builders London 
1907 p. 318 fig. 156, cp. R. M. Burrows of. cit. p. 94. Swprai. 23 n. 6. 

° Cp. Perrot—Chipiez Hist. de 1’ Art viii. 430 f. fig. 208. 

7 Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1902—1903 ix. 81 ff. fig. 58. 


8 Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. IQOI—Ig02 Vili- 95, cp. 26. 28, 
RK. M. Burrows of. cét. p. 27. 


The Tarentine cult of Zeus Katarbdtes 31 


identified with the bronze double-axes of ‘Minoan’ worship’. If 
this identification be well founded, it furnishes an important clue 
to the nature of the deity represented by the Cretan axes. The 
deity in question was, at least in Hellenic Tarentum, regarded as 
Zeus Katazbdtes, the god that fell from heaven in the form of a 
thunderbolt’. 

Tarentum, we gather, was originally an Iapygian settlement 
later Hellenised by a Lacedaemonian colony*. It is therefore of 
interest to recall the fact that from Thalamai (K ouépharz) in south- 
western Lakonike, where the oracle of Pasiphaa* bespeaks the 
influence of Crete, came the fifth-century inscription recording the 
apparently chthonian ritual of Zeus Kaddcas’. 

In view of H. Usener’s® contention that ¢évas (‘ borer’ ?) meant 
the lightning, and that Zeus 7erdstios of Gythion’ was a lightning- 
god, it seems possible that 7¢érvas the eponymous hero of Tarentum 


1 Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1900—1901 vil. 52 ff. fig. 15, za. 20. 
I90I—1go2 viii. ror ff. figs. 57 ff. 

Another point of comparison might be found in the fact that the Messapians, like the 
‘Minoans,’ were great dancers. According to Nikandros af. Ant. Lib. 31, it was said in 
the country of the Messapians that the nymphs known as Zfzmel¢des were seen dancing 
by the so-called Holy Rocks, that the sons of the Messapians left their flocks and challenged 
them to a contest of dancing, that the nymphs won, that the lads were changed into trees 
beside the sanctuary of the nymphs, and that a sound as of mourning is still heard by 
night from the wood of the ‘ Nymphs and Lads.’ 

2 See further zzfra § 3 (c) i (§). 

3 Liibker Readlex.8 p. 1012, M. Besnier Lexigue de géographie anctenne Paris 1914 
p- 739- See further R. Lorentz Disguisztio de ctvitate veterum Tarentinorum Numburgi 
1833 p. 35, S. F. W. Hoffmann Griechenland und die Griechen im Alterthum Leipzig 
1841 ii. 1930, Doehle Geschichte Tarents bis auf seine Unterwerfung unter Rom Strassburg 
1877 p- 19 f., J. Geffcken ‘ Die Griindung von Tarent’ in the Jahrb. f. Philol. u Pidag. 
1893 cxlvii. 177—192. 

4 Supra i. 520 f. 

PE SUpra pewly te 

6 H. Usener ‘ Keraunos’ in the Rhein. Mus. 1905 |x. 12 f. (=2d. Kleine Schriften 
Leipzig-Berlin 1913 iv. 481). 

7 A. Skias in the ’E@. ’Apx. 1892 p. 57, Wide Lakon. Kulte p. 370, R. Meister in 
Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-/nschr. iii. 2. 60 no. 4563, Michel Recuezl a’ Zuscr. gr. no. 760, 
Inscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess.i no. 1154 (incised on the wall of a rocky niche at a place 
called IeXexnrév beneath the hill Larysion) uotpa | Avs Tepaorio, ‘the portion of Zeus 

Terdstios.’ The niche is figured in Lebas—Reinach Voyage Arch. p. 32 pl. 25 (plan 7d. 
p. 32f pl. 26) and described in detail by R. Weil in the Ah. AMtth. 1876 i. 151 ff. Cp. 
Loukian. 77m. 41 © Zed repdorie kal pidor KoptBartes kat "Epuh xepdwe, 7o0ev tocovrov 
xpuotov ; Aristeid. 07. 45. 65 (ii. 86 Dindorf) elré mpds Acds tepacrtiou, ri xph mepl rovrwy 
nuas vouigew ; Theod. Prodr. Rhod. et Dos. 7. 518 tepdotte Zeb, Scholl—Studemund anecd. 
i. 265 ’Esrifera Avés no. 96 Tepacriov, 267 ’Emidera Ards no. 89 Tepacriov. 

8 The fact that Taras appears as a gwasi-Poseidon (see ¢.g. Buslepp in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. v. 93 ff.) is not fatal to this hypothesis, if Poseidon was originally but a specialised 
form of Zeus (i. 717 n. 2, 77/ra § 3 (c) i (n)) and his trident a thunder-weapon (2zefra § 3 (c) 
iv (y)). 


a2 Zeus Krataibdtes 


had a name of kindred significance’, involving Doric @ for ¢%. We 
might compare the Zaventum or Terenium (‘Hole’?) in the Campus 
Martius at Rome*. On the other hand, such Celtic deities as Za- 
ranis, Taranu-cnus, lupiter Taranucus* are perhaps best related to 
Anglo-Saxon Thunor, Norse Thor, etc.—witness the alternative 
form lIupiter Zaxarus’. 


(€) Zeus Krataibdates. 


A relief found at the village of Kats¢gkrz near Nauplia repre- 
sents Zeus advancing from left to right. He hurls 


AGIEOR2 

KPA TAI. @ thunderbolt with his right arm and stretches out 

BAT A his left, above which is an inscription (fig. 14)° read- 
Fig. 14. me 


‘Of Zeus Krataibates, 


The title thus spelt is unique. It may of course be a mere 
blunder for Kataibdtes. But more probably it is an intentional 
variation of that epithet: whoever erected the monument wished 


to suggest the potency of the lightning-god’. 


(yn) Survivals of the foregoing beliefs. 


In Christian times it was believed that the victim of lightning 
had been struck by the sudden descent of a demon. For example, 
early in the fifth century Saint Hypatios, presbyter and Legouimenos 


1 A. Vanicéek Griechisch-lateinisches etymologisches Worterbuch Leipzig 1877 i. 286. 

2, Boisacq Les dzalectes dortens Paris 1891 p. 33 ff. 

3 O. Richter Zopographie der Stadt Kom* Miinchen 1901 pp. 224f., 257, H. Jordan— 
C. Huelsen 7opographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1907 1. 3. 477 ff., H. Kiepert 
et C. Huelsen Formae urbis Romae antiquae* Berolini 1912 p. 137- 

Zeus Tapavratos was the god of Tarantos in Bithynia (Steph. Byz. s.v. Tdpas...go7u 6€ 
kat Tdpayros apoevikas Neyouévyn rONs Biduvlas, évOa timarar Tapavtatos Levs, ws Anuoabévns 
év devtépw BibvvcaxGv. etpynrar kal 6a Tod 6 Adpavdos, Sch6ll—Studemund amnecd. i. 265 
"Erldera Acés no. 100 Tapayralov, 267 ’Hriera Acés no. 88 rapayraiov). 

4 A. Holder Alt-celtischer Sprachschatz Leipzig 1904 ii. 1728 f., O. Hofer in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. v. 87 ff. 

° A. Holder of. cit. 11. 1716 f., Reusch in Roscher Lex. Myth. v. 74. It would of 
course be possible to make the opposite assumption and to regard Zarvamis as the normal, 
Tanarus as the aberrant form. I have discussed the matter with Prof. H. M. Chadwick, 
who inclines to the solution adopted in the text. 

6 P. Wolters in the Ah. Mitth. 1890 xv. 233 Atos | Kparac|Bdtra=Jnscr. Gr. Pelop. 
ino. 669 (=my fig. 14). 

7 For the form of the compound I. Kophiniotis (in ’A@nv@ 1890 ii. 695 and in Kazpot 
1890 no. 476) cites xkparalBoXos, Kpatavytados, kparatmous [add xparalBios, kpatat\ews, 
Kparaimevys, kpatalredov, kparaimtdos, kparalpwos, kparatrovos]. For xpdros as applied to 
lightning H. Usener (in Rheix. Mus. 1905 1x. 12) adduces Soph. O.7. 200 f., Cornut. 
theol. 10 p. 10, 13 Lang (where Lang adopts Schmitt-Blank’s cj. Bédos), etc. 


Zoroastres 33 


of the Rufinian monastery in Bithynia, was said to have cured a 
certain man, Agathangelos by name, ‘who was paralysed by thunder, 
a demon having come down upon him’, 

The survival of pagan beliefs is yet clearer in later Greek and 
Latin versions of Zoroastres’ intercourse with heaven. Already in 
the fourth century B.c. Dinon of Kolophon, author of a great his- 
torical work on Persia?, beguiled by an obvious etymology, had 
stated that Zorodstres was ‘one that sacrificed to the stars’; and 
Hermodoros, probably the Syracusan pupil of Platon*, was content 
with the same explanation’. Dion Chrysostomos in a speech de- 
livered at Prousa during the year 102—103 A.D. goes into greater 
detail®. Zoroastres—he says—lived the life of a recluse on a certain 
mountain. Fire came down upon his mountain from above, so that 
it kindled and continued to burn. Thereupon the king of Persia 
and his notables drew near, wishing to worship the god. Zoroastres 
emerged scatheless from the fire, bade the king be.of good cheer 
and offer sacrifices as one that had come to the place where the 
god was. From that time onward Zoroastres associated only with 
the Magoi, who could understand the god and knew how to serve 
the divine. They keep a chariot of Nisaean steeds’, the finest in 
all Asia, for Zeus. The popular etymology of Zorodstres, combined 
with the notion that celestial fire descended upon him, was further 
amplified along the lines of Greek belief. According to the Cle- 
mentine Homzlies*, the Magian Nebrod (Nimrod), wishing to become 


1 Kallinikos de vita S. Hypatit p. 37, 30 ff. Bonnenses 6s rapedviOn amd Bpovris, 
daiwovos katemeNOovTos ait@ (quoted by Usener Zoc. czt. p. 10). 

2 E. Schwartz in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. v. 654. 

3 P. Natorp 26. viii. 861. 

+ Dinon frag. 5 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. go Miiller) and Hermodoros ag. Diog. Laert. 
praef. 8 kal Aclvay &v TH TéeuTTy Tv icTroprdv: ds Kal weOepunvevduevdy Pot Tov Lwpodarpnv 
dorpodirny elvac: pyot d€ Todro kal 6‘Epuddwpos. J. Toup cj. dorpobérny and S. Bochart 
Cj. dorpobedrny ; but cp. schol. Plat. A/czd. 7 p. gt8 4 43 ff. Zwpodorpys...06 4 els “EXXnv- 
ikiy poviv pwerappafouevov rotvoua Tov dorpobvrny Snot. See further J. H. Moulton 
Early Zoroastrianism London 1913 pp. 77, 201, 415, and especially 426 f. (‘ This implies 
that some form of Ay. zao0ra (M.P. zohr) was brought in, with Gathic and Avestan s¢ar 
(mod. Pers. s¢¢ava). The elements of the compound are, it must be allowed, in the wrong 
order. If the Greek form Zopodorpys were better attested, we should have no trouble.’ 
Btc.). 

° W. Schmid in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. v. 872. 

§ Dion Chrys. ov. 36 p. 92 f. Reiske. I have quoted the passage supra i. 783 f. 

7 Souid. s.v. tos Nicaios. 

8 Clem. Rom. om. 9. 4f. (ii. 244 Migne) é« rod yévous rovrou yiveral Tis Kata Siadoxhy 
payika mapenpws dvouate NeBpws, worep ylyas évaytia Tw ew ppoveiv Eomevos, dv ob 
"EdAnves ZLwpodotpny mpoonydpevoay. otros mera Tov KaTakAvoudy Bacidelas dpexGels Kal 
méyas Gy udyos Tod viv BacievovTos Kakod Tov wpockorodvTa tkdcuov t aorépa (an leg. Too 
viv BaothevovTos Kakov Tod Kédcmov Tov wpockoTOvyTa aorépa, ‘the birth-star of the evil man 
that now rules the world,’ sc. of Domitian?) mpds ryv é& adtod Bacidelas dbow payxais 


C. Il. 3 


34 Zoroastres 


king, by his magic arts forced a certain star to grant him the kingdom. 
The star did so, but poured out upon him the royal fire! in the 
form of lightning. Nebrod, killed by the lightning, was renamed 
Zorodstres since a ‘living stream from the star’ had fallen upon 
him, His contemporaries, supposing that his soul had been fetched 
by the thunderbolt on account of his friendship with God, buried 
his remains, built a temple at the grave in Persia, where the fire 
had fallen, and worshipped the man as a god. Following their 
example, others in that region buried victims of thunderbolts as 
friends of God, built temples in their honour, and set up portrait 
statues of them. The Clementine Recognztions® give us the same 


qvayKage Téxvais. 6 6, dre 67 &pxwy wy Kal Tod Brafouévov riv éEovciay Exwv, mer’ dpyis 
Td Ths Bacwdelas mpocéxee wip, iva pos TE TOY OpKiopoy EvyvwmovnTy Kai TOY TpHTws avay- 
KdoavTa Tinwpnonra. é€x Tavrys ody THs €& ovpavod Xaual mecovons aoTpamHs O mdyos 
dvapefels NeBpw6 éx Tod cuuBdvTos mpayuatos Lwpodotpys meTwvouacbn dua Td THY TOU 
aorépos kar’ avTod f@oav évexOjvar pony. ol dé avdnra T&v TéTE avOpwHrwr, ws dia THY Els 
Ocov gidlay Kepavy@ perarreupbeioay tiv Wuxi vouicavres, TOU gwMaTos TO NelWavov Kar- 
opvéavtes, Tov wey Tagov vaw éeTiunoayv ev Ilépoats, évOa 7 Tov Tupos KaTapopa yéyovev, avTov 
6€ ws Oedv EOpnoKkevoay. TovTw Tw UTodelyuaTt Kal ol NoTOl Exelce TOS Kepavy@ OvHTKOYTAS 
ws Peopire’s Odrrortes vaois Tiu@ow Kal TOY TEOVEWTWY Ldiwy woppar isTadcw dydpaTa. 

1 For the royal fire see Clem. Rom. fom. g. 6 (ii. 245 Migne) Ilépoar mp&rou ris é& 
ovpavod mecovons aotpamfAs NaBovres dvOpaxas TH olkeia drep’akav Tpopy, Kal ws Gedy 
ovpaviov mpoTunoavTes TO TIp ws Tp@Tor mpookuyjcavTes UT avTov Tod Tupds TpwTy Bactrela 
TeTiunvra. web ots BaBvdAwvrioc amo Tov exe? mupds dvOpaxas KéWarTes Kal SiacwoavTes 
els Ta €auTav Kal mpocxuyjcarvTes Kal avrol axkoovOws éBaci\evoay. Alylmrot 5é dpolws 
mpaéavres Kai 7d Top ldla diadéxtw POae (sc. Ptah: supra i. 433) kadéoavres, 6 Epunveverat 
“H¢atoros <7 “Oorpis (so A. R. M. Dressel, cp. Iambl. de myst. Aegypt. 8. 3)>, ob Te 
dvouatt Kai 6 map’ avrots mparos Bacievoas mpooayopeveTa. K.T.A., Curt. 3. 3. 9 ignis, 
quem ipsi sacrum et aeternum vocabant, argenteis altaribus praeferebatur, Amm. Marc. 
23. 6. 34 feruntque, si iustum est credi, etiam ignem caelitus lapsum apud se sempiternis 
foculis custodire, cuius portionem exiguam, ut faustam, praeisse quondam Asiaticis regibus 
dicunt, Cassiod. hzst. trifert. 10. 30 (Ixix. 1184. D Migne) Pyrea namque pagani vocant 
templa, in quibus ignem servant, Theophan. chronegr. 258A (i. 474 Classen) kal kara- 
AaBav 6 Baoireds Thy Tafaxd wow ev TH avarody, év 7 bwHPXEV O vads TOD Tupds Kal Ta 
xpyuata Kpoicov rot Avédy Bacidéws kal 7 mAdvn TOV avOpdxwy = Kedren. hzst. comp. 412 A 
(i. 721 Bekker) cai xara\aBav rhv Tagaxdy modu, év 4 brApxev 6 vads Tod mwupds Kal Ta 
xpnuatra Kpolcov rod Avédy Baoiiéws kai n mAdvyn Tov avOpdKkwv=hist, miscell. 20. 16 
(p. 434, 18 ff. Eyssenhardt) et pervenerit ad civitatem Thebarmam in oriente sitam, in 
qua erat templum ignis atque pecuniae Croesi Lydorum regis et error prunarum. The zip 
mpotoumevov of the Roman emperors etc. is a different matter: see A. C. Eschenbach 
Dissertationes Academicae p. 519 ff. (‘ Dissertatio de igne Augustis praelato’), H. S. Reimar’s 
note on Dion Cass. 71. 35, G. Bloch in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 1468. 

> Rufin. vecognit. 4. 27 f. ex quibus unus Cham nomine cuidam ex filiis suis qui 
Mesraim appellabatur, a quo Aegyptiorum et Babyloniorum et Persarum ducitur genus, 
male compertam magicae artis tradidit disciplinam : hunc gentes quae tunc erant Zoroastrem 
appellaverunt, admirantes primum magicae artis autorem, cuius nomine etiam libri super 
hoc plurimi habentur. hic ergo astris multum ac frequenter intentus, et volens apud 
homines videri deus, velut scintillas quasdam ex stellis producere et hominibus ostentare 
coepit, quo rudes atque ignari in stuporem miraculi traherentur, cupiensque augere de se 
huiusmodi opinionem, saepius ista moliebatur usquequo ab ipso daemone, quem im- 
portunius frequentabat, igni succensus concremaretur. sed stulti homines qui tunc erant... 


Zoroastres 35 


statement in a somewhat earlier form. Mesraim (Mizraim), son of 
Cham (Ham), was the first to study magic. He gave much attention 
to the stars and, wishing to be thought a god, pretended to produce 
sparks from them, till at length he was burnt by the demon, whom 
he had too often invoked. His contemporaries regarded him as a 
friend of God, carried up to heaven on a thunderbolt. They there- 
fore built him a tomb, changed his name to Zoroaster, the ‘Living 
Star, and worshipped him as such. Hence many persons still 
honour victims of lightning with tombs and respect them as being 
friends of God. Rufinus’ account is followed in the sixth century 
by Saint Gregory of Tours. The Chronicon Paschale® of the 
seventh century, together with the Byzantine historians Kedrenos; 
(¢. 1100 A.D.) and Glykas# (¢. 1120 A.D.), states that Zoroastres the 
famous Persian astronomer, when about to die, prayed to Orion that 
he might be destroyed by the fire of heaven, and told the Persians 
to take up his burnt bones and preserve them, as the retention 


in maius eum extollunt. exstructo enim sepulcro ad honorem eius tanquam amicum Dei 
ac fulminis ad coelum vehiculo sublevatum adorare ausi sunt et quasi vivens astrum colere. 
hine enim et nomen post mortem eius Zoroaster, hoc est vivum sidus, appellatum est ab 
his qui post unam generationem Graecae linguae loquela fuerant repleti. hoc denique 
exemplo etiam nunc multi eos qui fulmine obierint sepulcris honoratos tanquam amicos 
Dei colunt. 

J. B. Coteler ad loc. cites from Fest. p. 245 a@ 23 ff. Miiller, p. 285, 3 ff. Lindsay the 
statement that Q. Fabius Eburnus was called pulls ovis because his hinder parts were 
struck by lightning (cp. Arnob. adv. nat. 4. 26 and De Vit Oxomastzcon iii. 8 5.v. ‘ xiv. 
Fabius’). 

1 Gregorius Turonensis A7st. Franc. 1. 5 (Ixxi. 164 f. Migne) primogenitus vero Cham, 
Chus. hic fuit totius artis magicae, imbuente diabolo, et primus idololatriae adinventor. 
hic primus statuunculam adorandam diaboli instigatione constituit : qui et stellas, et ignem 
de coelo cadere, falsa virtute, hominibus ostendebat. hic ad Persas transiit. hunc Persae 
vocitavere Zoroastrem, id est viventem stellam. ab hoc etiam ignem adorare consueti 
ipsum divinitus igne consumptum ut deum colunt. 

2 Chron. Paschale i. 67 Dindorf €& airod oty rod yévous éyervyAn Kal 6 Zwpdacrpos (so 
cod. V. for Zopodorpys ed. Paris.) 6 daorpovdmos Iepody 6 mepiBdnros, boTis wé\Nwy TeNEUTaY 
nixero bd mupds avahwOjvac ovpaviou, elacw rots Ilépoats bre €av Kavon pe TO Tip, Ex TOV 
Kalouévwv mov daTéwy émrdpare kal puddéare, Kal ovK ExeiWer TO Bacidevoy Ex THs Uuay Ywpas 
dcov xpovov puddtreTe Ta éud doTéa. Kal evEduEvos TOY ’Qpluwva dmrd Tupds depiou dvn\wHOn. 
kal érrolnoay oi Ilépoat xadws etrev avrois: kal éxovor puddtrovtes TO NelWavov a’Tod Teppw- 
Gév Ews viv. 

3 Kedren. hist. comp. 16 B—C (i. 29 f. Bekker) éx Tod yévous otv abrod Kal Zwpodorpys 
6 mepiBdnTos dotpovduos év Ilépoais yevouevos nléaro brd mupds depiov KepavywOjvac Kal 
dvawOjvat, evredduevos trots Ilépaas Ta dora aiTrod pera THY Kalow dvadaBety Kail 
guddrrev avrods (I. Bekker cj. a’ra) Kai tiydv: Kai ws ov, pyai, cuoecbe Tatra, TO 
BactXevov THs tudy xwpas ovK EexdelWer. otrws ofy TovTov Tupl ovpaviw TeppwhévTos Ta 
AelWava avrov did riuAs etxov of Ilépoat, ws rovrov Katagppovyjcavres Kal THs Baoielas 
é&émecov. Infra § 3 (c) i (x). 

4 Michael Glykas azn. 2 129 C—D (p. 243 f. Bekker) é& of yévous éyévero kal Zwpéd- 
actpos 0 meptBdnros IlepoGv dorpovduos, ds ele Tots Ilépoas, ‘*éav Katon me TO ovpavioy 
mip,” Toto yap Kal nl'xero, ‘‘AdBere Ex TOv daTéwy wou Kal pudrdoceTe els cUoTAaTW THs 
Baotrelas buay.” 6 6H Kal yéyovev. 


eee 


36 The Elysian Way 


of sovereignty depended upon their safe-keeping. The lexicographers 
Souidas! in the tenth century and ‘ Zonaras?’ in the twelfth repeat 
the same tale with slight variations. 

Even the twentieth century has not wholly outgrown the old- 
world view. In Makedonia it is thought that, if any one struck by 
lightning is immediately removed from the spot, where the accident 
befell him, to a distance of forty paces, he will recover’. Why ? 
Because he is no longer within the domain or range of the divine 
power, no longer in Elysium‘. 


iii. Zeus and the Sky- Pillar. 


(a) The Elysian Way. 


The word eé/jsion, which thus signifies both the spot struck by 
lightning and the abode of the divinised dead, is presumably related 
to elyste, a ‘way*. The term is remarkable, and its applicability is 
not at once clear. We must suppose that the Greeks recognised a 
definite ‘way’ from earth to heaven, along which those honoured 
by the summons of Zeus might pass. This conception would at 
least square with certain Pindaric phrases. In a context of Pytha- 
gorean® import the poet tells how— 


Souls that thrice on either side 
Free from evil can abide 
Travel the road of Zeus to Kronos’ tower, 
Where round islands of the blest 
Ocean breezes lull to rest 
And forth there flashes many a golden flower’. 


1 Souid. s.v. Zwpodorpys, dorpovduos, émi Nivov Baciéws ’Acouplwv. boris ndtaro iwd 
mupos ovpavlov TeNeuTHoaL, Tapeyyujoas Tois ’Acouplias Thy Téppav avTod pudarrev* otirw 
yap atrots ) Baoirelo. ovk ExNeiWer SiamrayTds. Barep wéxpte viv mepUakTac Tap’ avrors. 

* Zonar. lex. 5.v. Lwpodorpys* darpovouos. obros émrt Nivou Bacthéws ’Acaupiwv hv’ Saris 
nvéaro Uo mupds ovpaviov TedeuvTHoaL, Tapeyyujoas "Acouplus Ti Téppay avrod puddrrew* 
oirw yap avrots 7 Bacirela ovk éxdelWer duamavrds. Smep méxpe viv mepidakTar map’ 
avrots. 

° G. F. Abbott Macedonian Folklore Cambridge 1903 p. 229. 

4 Supra p. 22f. 

® Hesych. #Avaln: 666s, e¢. mag. p. 497, 9 ff. Karndvoln: ‘ KarmArvoin Lepiporo’ (Ap. 
Rhod. 4. 836 AawWnpoto xarnvoln Lepvporo, cp. Arat. phaen. 536). onuaiver rhv KdOodov 
Kal Thy éméNevow, éhevolyn Tis odoa Kal HAvoly, Kal pera THS Kara mpobecews. So dimdrvein, 
émndvoln, ounrvoly. 

6 Supra l. 303 D. 5. 

7 Pind. O/. 2. 68 ff. bcoe 5 érd\uacav éotpis | ExatépwOt pelvayres dro mdumav adoikwy 
éxew | puxdy, érevdav (sic Tricl. et schol.: éorehay codd. A.B.C.D. et paraphr.) Acds 
0ddv mapa Kpévou rupow: Oa waxdpwr | vdoos (vacos Tricl. et paraphr.: vaoov codd. 


A.B.C.D. : vdoos cj. W. Christ) dkeavides | atpar repurvéoicw: dvOeua dé Xpuvood préyet, | 
K.T.A. 


The Elysian Way 37 


Again, in an equally arresting fragment Pindar says: 


Themis the wise, the heavenly, afar 

From Ocean’s founts on golden car 

Up the dread stair the Fates first bore 
Along the gleaming way to Olympos’ height, 
That Zeus the Saviour might 

Have her to wife of yore : 

The mother she of the unerring Hours, 

Gold-frontleted, gay-fruited powers}. 


What was this ‘road of Zeus,’ this ‘gleaming way’? If I am not 
mistaken’, it was the broad path of dim and distant splendour that 
stretches across the abyss of the midnight sky*. Our forefathers 
called it ‘Watling Street*’ or ‘London Road*®’ We know it as 
the ‘Milky Way.’ And a collection of names for it such as that 
got together by H. Gaidoz and E. Rolland® proves that all the 
world over it has been regarded as a celestial track. Further, as 
E. B. Tylor’? observed, this track is often held to be the road 
traversed by the gods or the souls of men: 


1 Pind. frag. 30 Schroeder ap. Clem. Al. strom. 5. 14 p. 418, 23 ff. Stahlin mpdrov 
(sic Hephaist. 15. 11 p. 51, 6 Consbruch, mpSra Clem. Al.) uév eUBovdov Oéuy ovpaviar | 
xpvoéaccw (xpvolaow Clem. Al., xpvoéaiow cj. D. Heinsius) trmas (trmouw Clem. Al., 
trmos cj. G. Hermann) ’Qkeavod rapa mayday (rayov Clem. Al., mayay cj. A. Boeckh) | 
Mofpac orl kXiwaxa ceuvdv | ayov (dyov Clem. Al.) ONumrou (OvAVmrov cj. G. Hermann) 
Aurapay Kad’ dddv (kadBodov Clem. Al., corr. C. G. Heyne) | cwrfpos apxatav ddoxov Aros 
éupev’ (Eumevac Clem. Al., corr. C. G. Heyne) | a dé ras (aderas Clem. Al., a 6€ Tas 
Schroeder) xpvodumuxas ayNaoxdprous | tixrev ddabéas “Qpas (ayaa owrfpas Clem. Al., 
ayaba cwrhpas <‘Qpas> cj. G. Hermann, ddabéasQpas rest. A. Boeckh cp. Hesych. s.v. 
dabéas "Qpas). 

? The same conclusion was reached by T. Bergk in the Jahrd. f. class. Philol. 1860 
vi. 411 ff. and by W. H. Roscher /uno und Hera Leipzig 1875 p. 83 nn. 257 and 258, 
who rightly drew attention to Philon de providentia 2. 89 (a Latin rendering of the 
Armenian version discovered by B. Aucher) Circulus tamen lacteus ad quid est?...Si 
quidem nonnulli arbitrantur luminis esse revibrationem ex stellis refulgentibus; quidam 
vero commissuram totius caeli, ubi coaptantur hemisphaeria; alii antiquam ab initio viam 
solis ; alii Geryonis pecudum viam, per quam eas duxit Hercules ; alii vero ex yaNaxrckots, 
sc. lacte plenis, Iunonis uberibus; quod etiam Heratosthenes sensit : quare dicit, Miror, 
si aggrediar Lovis sacra vestigia pedis, quod cornu appellat hucusque, et circulum festi- 
nantis velocisque suffurantis paleas. Bergk /oc. cz¢t. p. 412 n. 141 saw that the latter part 
of this extract derives from Eratosthenes’ astronomical poem ‘Epujjs (frag. 16 ed. Hiller 
Lipsiae 1872). 3 F. Kahn Die Milchstrasse Stuttgart 1914. 

4 J. Grimm Zeutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 356f., E. B. 
Tylor Primitive Culture® London 1891 i. 360. 

5 E. B. Tylor Primitive Culture London 1891 i. 360, The Lady Eveline Camilla 
Gurdon County Folk-Lore. Printed Extracts No. 2. Suffolk London 1893 p. 166. 

6 H. Gaidoz and E. Rolland ‘Noms de la Voie Lactée dans différentes langues’ in 
Mélusine Paris 1884—8s5 ii. 151—154. Shorter lists are given by A. Kuhn Sagem, 
Gebriuche und Miérchen aus Westfalen Leipzig 1859 ii. 85 f., by J. Grimm 7eztonic 
Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882—1888 i. 357 n. 1, iv. 1389, 1588, and by 
E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp- 89, 241, 281. 

7 E. B. Tylor Primitive Cultwre® London 1891 i. 359 f. 


38 The Elysian Way 


The Basutos call it the ‘Way of the Gods!’ ; the Ojis say it is the ‘ Way of 
Spirits,’ which souls go up to heaven by”, North American tribes know it as 
‘the Path of the Master of Life,’ the ‘Path of Spirits,’ ‘the Road of Souls,’ where 
they travel to the land beyond the grave, and where their camp-fires may be 
seen blazing as brighter stars*. Such savage imaginations of the Milky Way fit 
with the Lithuanian myth of the ‘ Road of the Birds,’ at whose end the souls of 
the good, fancied as flitting away at death like birds, dwell free and happy‘. 


Classical evidence of the Galaxy conceived as a Seelenpfad is not 
wanting®. Ovid speaks of it as a road leading to the palace of 


lupiter : 


1B. Casalis Zhe Basutos; or, Twenty-three Years in South Africa London 1861 
p- 196 ‘I have known great boys who hardly dared to look up at the stars, because they 
imagined that the milky way was a monstrous collection of those transparent beings whose 
imaginary appearance is so much dreaded*. (*The Basutos call the milky way, ‘‘the way 
of the gods.’’)’ 

2-T. Waitz Anthropologie der Naturvilker Leipzig 1860 ii. 191 ‘Den Odschis gilt 
ebenfalls der Himmel als der Aufenthaltsort der Guten nach dem Tode: sie steigen zu 
ihm auf dem ‘‘ Geisterwege,” der Milchstrasse, hinauf, wogegen die Bosen im anderen 
Leben zu leiden haben (Riis im Bas. Miss. Mag. 1847 iv. 251. Miiller 96).’ 

3S. H. Long An Expedition to the Rocky Mountains i. 288, H. R. Schoolcraft 
Historical and Statistical Information respecting the History, Condition and Prospects of 
the Indian Tribes of the United States Philadelphia 1851 i. 272. ‘The milky-way, they 
[the Creeks, or Muscogees] believe to be the paths of the spirits; but the spirits of whom, 
or what, they do not know.’ P. le Jeune Relation de ce gui Sest passé en la Nouvelle 
France, en Pannée 1634 Paris 1635 p. 63 ‘ils [les sauvages montagnais de Kebec] 
appellent la voye lactée, Zchipai miskenau[?], le chemin des ames, pource qu ils 
pensent que les ames se guindent par cette voye pour aller en ce grand village.’ 
G. H. Loskiel History of the Mission of the United Brethren among the Indians in North 
America trans. C. I. La Trobe London 1794 i. 35 ‘ When they revived, they related that 
this place was to the south of heaven, and that the bright track called the milky way, was 
the road to it. This led to a most glorious city, the inhabitants of which enjoyed every 
possible good in great abundance.’ J. G. Miiller Geschichte der Amerikanischen Urre- 
ligionen Basel 1855 p. 63 ‘ Der siidliche Himmel ist iiberhaupt das Land der Verstorbenen, 
und die Sterne der Milchstrasse, die angeheftete Feuer sind, sind der Weg dorthin. 
Loskiel 47. Catlin 116. Vollmer l.c. Andree N.A. 247.’ [See also J. F. Lafitau A/wurs 
des Sauvages Ameriquains comparés aux meurs des premiers temps Paris 1724 ii. 406, 
E. B. Tylor Primitive Culture® London 1891 ii. 72-] 

4 1. J. Hanusch (Hanus) Die Wessenschaft des Slawischen Mythus im weitesten, den 
altpreussischlithauischen Mythus mitumfassenden Sinne Lemberg 1842 pp. 272, 407, 415. 
[Cp. W. von Schulenburg Wendische Volkssagen und Gebrauche aus dem Spreewald 
Leipzig 1880 p. 272 ‘die Milchstrasse zes‘towa droga® (* So in Burg, eigentlich wol ptaskowa 
droga.) etc., J. B. Holzmayer ‘Osiliana’ in the Verhandlungen der Gelehrten Estnischen 
Gesellschaft zu Dorpat Dorpat 1872 vii. 2. 48 ‘ Anno rada,’ F. R. Kreutzwald and H. Neus 
Mythische und magische Lieder der Ehsten Saint Petersburg 1854 ‘ Anno teerada,’—cited 
by H. Gaidoz and E. Rolland in Mélusine 1884—85 ii. 154 f.] Znfra § 3 (a) vi(d). 

> See now P. Capelle De Juna, stellis, lacteo orbe animarum sedibus Halle IQI7 
(reviewed by E. Pfeiffer in the Deutsche Litteraturzeitung 1918 p. 35 f., by W. Nestle in 
the Wochenschrift fiir klassische Philologie 1918 p. 47 f., and by O. Hofer in the Berd. 
philol. Woch. April 27, 1918 p. 396f.) p. 37 ff. 

The conception of the Milky Way as an abode of souls survived into post-classical 
literature and art. Paulinus (353--431 A.D.), bishop of Nola, makes Enoch, Elijah, and 
other pious souls ascend to heaven vza the Galaxy; Paulin. Nolan. carm. 5. 37 ff. pande 


The Elysian Way 39 


There is a road aloft in the clear heaven, 
Milk-white and therefore named the Milky Way. 
Here go the gods to the great Thunderer’s house 
And royal home. To right and left the halls 

Of high-born deities fling wide their doors. 

The populace in diverse spots may dwell ; 

But on this front the denizens of heaven 

Puissant and proud have pitched their own abodel. 


Ovid’s celestial city is doubtless made to the pattern of Rome: 


viam, quae me post vincula corporis aegri | in sublime ferat, puri qua lactea caeli | semita 
ventosae superat vaga nubila lunae | qua proceres abiere pii quaque integer olim | raptus 
quadriiugo penetrat super aera curru | Elias et solido cum corpore praevius Enoch. And 
Dracontius of Carthage (end of s. V A.D.) would raise the brave man to the sky along the 
same starry track: Drac. Romul. 5. 323 ff. his quartus (so F. Biicheler for gzezetzs) 
adesto | virtutis ratione fide pietate vigore | possessure polos, scandens qua lacteus axis | 
vertitur, aetherii qua se dat (so F. von Duhn for sedat C. Rossberg cj. cadet) circulus orbis | 
lunarisque globus qua volvitur axe tepenti ; aut certe qua Phoebus agit super astra iugales:: | 
sidera sic capies, poteris sic astra mereri. Cp. Hieron. ef7s¢. 23. 3 (xxii. 426 Migne) ille (sc. 
the husband of Lea)...nunc desolatus et nudus non in Jacteo caeli palatio, ut uxor mentitur 
infelix, sed in sordentibus tenebris. These are but Christianised versions of a belief that 
must have been wide-spread in later classical times—witness e.g. an elegiac epitaph from 
Salonae: Corp. inscr. Lat. iii Suppl. no. 9631, 2 f.=F. Biicheler Carmina Latina 
epigraphica Lipsiae 1897 ii. 685 f. no. 1438, 17 f. sede beatorum recipit te lacteus orbis | 
e gremio matris: hoc tua digna fides. The artistic evidence, though considerably later, is 
not devoid of interest. A twelfth-century manuscript of Germanicus at Madrid (cod. 
Matrit. A 16), with coloured pictures in the scholza, represents the czrczlus lacteus as 
a hoop held by a half-draped female, who bears aloft a draped female, the divinised soul 
(G. Thiele Antike Himmelsbilder Berlin 1898 p. 147 ff. fig. 64=my fig. 15). The same 
design with slight variations is found two centuries afterwards in the Vienna manuscript 
of a Latin prose work on astronomy (cod. Vindob. 2352): the starry circle is here more 
recognisable, the draped soul on its semi-draped supporter is less so, the apotheosis-type 
being ill understood (G. Thiele of. ci. p. 149 fig. 65=my fig. 16). 





Fig. 15. Fig. 16. 


1 Ov. met. 1. 168 ff. est via sublimis, caelo manifesta sereno; | lactea nomen habet, 
candore notabilis ipso. | hac iter est superis ad magni tecta Tonantis | regalemque domum. 
dextra laevaque deorum | atria nobilium valvis celebrantur apertis. | plebs habitat diversa 
locis: hac fronte (sic codd. A.N.P.T., @ (in rasura) fronée codd. M.e.X., hac parte cod. Be.) 
potentes | caelicolae clarique suos posuere penates. 


40 The Elysian Way 


‘this front, as R. Merkel saw’, recalls the frous Palatiz*. But the 
via sublimts of the poet’s vision was borrowed from an old-world 
belief held by certain followers of Pythagoras. The Pythagoreans 
indeed were much exercised about the Milky Way. Most of them 
took it to be a ‘way’ of some sort. One group said that it was the 
track made by a star, which had fallen from its proper position at 
the time of Phaethon’s catastrophe. Others saw in it a burnt path- 
way marking the sun’s original course*. Others again deemed it a 
mere reflection of the solar rays. These opinions are duly recorded 
by Aristotle*, Manilius®, and the doxographer Aétios®. But a view 


1 Ov. met. ed. R. Merkel (Lipsiae 1883) praef. p. vi. 

2 Mirabilia Romae 25 (H. Jordan Jopographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 
1871 ii. 637) in fronte Palatii templum Solis. in eodem Palatio templum Iovis, quod 
vocatur casa maior. 

3 So too Oinopides of Chios (Achill. zsag. ad Arat. 24 p. 55, 18 ff. Maass érepor dé 
gpacw, wy éote Kal Olvorldns 6 Xios, dre mpbrepov dia TovTov (sc. TOO yddaKTos) epépero 6 
Mrwos, dud O€ TA Ovécrera detrva arecrpadny kal Thy évavTiay ToUTw TemolnTac Tepipopdy, HY 
viv meprypdpe: 6 Spdiaxds) and perhaps Metrodoros of Lampsakos (Plout. de plac. phil. 
3. 1=Stob. ecl. 1. 27. 3 p. 226, gf. Wachsmuth (Aét. 3. 1. 3 in H. Diels Doxographi 
Graeci Berolini 1879 p. 365, 7 ff.) Myrpédwpos dca tiv mapodov Tot nAlov: Torov yap elvac 
Tov Ncaxdv KUKAov). Cp. Isid. orig. 3. 45 quam aliqui dicunt viam esse, qua circuit sol, et 
ex huius splendoris ipsius transitu ita lucere. 

For the Milky Way in relation to the sun see A. Kuhn Sagen, Gebriduche und Miarchen 
aus Westfalen Leipzig 1859 ii. 86 no. 267 ‘Die Milchstrasse nennt man bei Saldern, 
westlich von Wolfenbiittel, die Himmelsstrasse, sie ist die Mitte der Welt, und die Sonne 
steht am Mittag regelmassig in derselben,’ 74. ii. 87 no. 269 ‘Die Milchstrasse dreht 
sich nach der Sonne, indem sie dort zuerst erscheint, wo die Sonne untergegangen ist. 
Woltringhausen, Amt Uchte. Einer aus Loccum erklarte sie fiir den Widerschein der 
Sonne.’ 

4 Aristot. meteor. 1. 8. 345 a 13 ff. TOv meév ody Kadouuévwr Iludayopelwy pact rwes dddv 
elvac Ta’rny of pev TOY exrecbvTwy Twos doTpwy (acTépwr cod. N.) kara THY Neyouevny emi 
Paébovros POopay (popay codd. E.F.N.), of 6é tov AdLcov TobTov Tov KUKNov Pépecbai roré 
paw: olov ody dtaxekatcba Tov Térov TovTOV (TovTOY Tov Témov cod. F., ToUTov Tov TpdroV 
codd. H.N.) # 7u rovotroy do terovbévar mabos bd Tis popas (POopas H. Diels Die 
Fragmente der Vorsokratiker® Berlin 1906 i. 230, 41) avrod (avray cod. H.). See further 
Olympiod. zz Aristot. meteor. p. 66, 27 ff., p. 69, 33 ff. Stiive and Philop. zz Aristot. 
meteor. p. tol, 19 ff., p. 106, 13 fl. Hayduck. 

> Manil. 1. 729 ff. an melius manet illa fides per saecula prisca, | illac (2//a codd. 
V..M.") Solis equos diversis (dzversos codd. C.V,.) cursibus (sic codd. G.L., curribus cett.) 
isse | atque aliam trivisse viam, longumque per aevum | exustas (exu¢as codd. L.!C. Vp.) 
sedes incoctaque (gue om. cod. V,.) sidera flammis | caeruleam (ceraldeo cod. M.) verso 
speciem mutasse colore (colorem codd. C.M?.) | infusumque (gwe om. codd. L.C.V,.) 
loco cinerem mundumque sepultum? | fama etiam antiquis ad nos descendit ab annis | 
Phaethontem patrio curru per signa volantem, | dum nova miratur propius spectacula 
mundi | et puer in caelo ludit curruque (cursugue codd. L.C.M.) superbus | luxuriat 
mundo (mundi cj. J. F. Gronovius, mz¢tzdo cj. J. P. Postgate) cupit et maiora parente 
(parentem codd. L.C.V,-), | (versum damnat R. Bentley, huc revocavit J. P. Postgate) 
deflexum solito cursu curvisque quadrigis | monstratas liquisse vias orbemque rigenti 
(vigentem cod. G., regentem cett., corr. J. F. Jacob, recentem G. Knaack post R. Bentley) | 
imposuisse polo, nec signa insueta tulisse | errantis nutu (ervantes meta cj. R. Bentley) 
flammas currumque solutum. 


6 Plout. de plac. phil. 3. 1=Stob. ecl. 1. 27. 2 p. 226, 1 ff. Wachsmuth (Aét. Bens a 


The Elysian Way Al 


ignored by them all is of more interest to us. Three writers steeped 
in neo-Platonic lore, and drawing perhaps from a single source’, 
ascribe to Pythagoras himself the belief that the Milky Way is the 
road by which souls come and go. Porphyrios (¢. 233—c. 304 A.D.), 
who penned an allegorical treatise On the Cave of the Nymphs in 
the Odyssey, remarks?: 


Elsewhere he (Homer) speaks of ‘the gates of the Sun*” meaning Cancer 
and Capricornus ; for these are the limits to which it progresses when descend- 
ing from north to south and again when ascending from south to north. 
Capricornus and Cancer are set at either side of the Milky Way, the latter on 
the north, the former on the south. And ‘the folk of dreams’ according to 
Pythagoras* are the souls, which—he asserts—-are gathered together in the 
Milky Way, so called from those that are nurtured on milk, when they fall 
into birth. 


Macrobius (¢. 400 A.D.) in his Commentary on the Dream of Scipio 
says’: 


The following order is observed in the descent by which the soul of man slips 
from heaven to the lower regions of this present life. The Milky Way embraces 
the zodiac by means of the circular contact of its oblique periphery in such a 
way that it intersects the zodiac at the points where two tropic signs, Capricornus 
and Cancer, are said to be. These the physicists have called the gates of the 
Sun, because both prevent it from further advance when such is forbidden by 
the solstice and turn it back to the pathway of that zone whose bounds it never 
quits. It is supposed that through these gates souls pass from heaven to earth 


in H. Diels Doxographi Graect Berolini 1879 p. 364, 22 ff.) rav ILv@ayopelwv oi meév (ot wev 
mubayopero. cod. P. Stob.) épacav dorépos civar didxavow exmecdvrTos ev amd THs dias 
(olkelas cod. B. Plout.) @dpas, 6 ot dé mepiédpape (sic cod. G. Plout. et Stob., éwédpape 
codd. (A.)B.C. Plout.) xwpiov (xwplov cod. P. Stob.) kuxAorepds atdto karapdééavTos 
(wepi@déEavros Stob.) él rod kara PaéGovta (paéPovros cod. A. Plout. et cod. F. Stob., 
deest locus in cod. C. Stob.) éumpnapmod (kuxNoreps—éumrpynopuod om. cod. P. Stob.). of dé 
Tov Nrtakdv TavTy pact (pyai cod. P. Stob.) kar’ dpxas yeyovévar Spduov. rivés dé (kal ins. 
cod. B. Plout.) katomrpixhy eivac pavraciay rod jdiov Tas a’yas mpos Tov ovpavoy ava- 
KAG@rTos, dmep kal emi (kam Stob.) ris (yjs ins. et ead. man. del. cod. P. Stob.) ipidos kal 
(kal om. Stob.) éml trav vepdv cupBaiver. Cp. pseudo-Aristot. evotoapocrts. (Diels op. cit. 
p- 364 n.) etvar dé kdrw mepl Thy (karomrpixhy corr. Diels) pavraciay 6 mus (leg. Tod HALov 
et ins. Tas) adyas mpos Tov ovpavdy avakhGrTos, wuep él THs Ipidos Kal emt Trav vepedov 
oupBalvec. 

1 Pp, Capelle of. czz. p. 39 f. holds that this was the commentary of some Platonist on 
Plat. 77m. 

2 Porph. de antr. nymph. 28. 

® Od. 24. 12 76é map’ ’HeNiovo ridas Kal djuor dvelpwr. 

4 In Quint. Smyrn. 14. 179 ff. the soul of Achilles appears to his son in a dream and 
ib. 223 ff. ds elmdv dadpovse Aon évadlyKos aipy, | alva & és ’Hdvovov rediov lev, 7XE 
réruxrat | ovpavod €& brdroo KaTatBaclyn 7’ dvodds Te | abavdros waxapecow. The lines 
are suggestive of Pythagorean influence. 

© Macrob. comm. in somn. Scip. 1. 12. 1—3. Cp. Favonius Eulogius disp. de somn. 
Scip. p. 1 Holder quod et immortalis esset animi mentisque substantia et bene meritis de 
re p(ublica) pa<t>ri<a>eque custodibus lactei circuli lucida ac candens habitio (/eg. 
habitatio) deberetur. 


4.2 The Elysian Way 


and again from earth to heaven. One is called the gate of men, the other that 
of the gods: Cancer is the gate of men, because through it they descend to the 
lower regions; Capricornus, the gate of the gods, because through it souls 
return to the seat of their own proper immortality and rejoin the company of 
the gods. This is what Homer, a poet of divine foresight, intended by his 
description of the cave in Ithake'. Hence too Pythagoras holds that from the 
Milky Way downwards begins the realm of Dis, since souls that have fallen 
from it seem already to have left the world above. Milk—he says—is the 
first food offered to the new-born, because their first movement downwards 
in the direction of earthly bodies begins at the Milky Way. Wherefore also 
Scipio, pointing to the Milky Way, observed with regard to the souls of the 
blessed : 
‘Hence they start, and hither they return !’ 


Proklos (410—485 A.D.), after citing from the Pythagorising 
Platonist Noumenios? a somewhat similar account of Capricornus 
and Cancer as the openings through which souls are sent upwards 
and downwards, continues? : 


For Pythagoras in mystic language calls the Milky Way ‘ Hades’ and ‘the 
place of souls,’ since there they are crowded together*. Whence sundry nations 
pour a libation of milk to the gods that purify souls, and milk is the first food 
taken by souls that fall into birth. 


This belief in the Milky Way as a soul-road is found in several 
authors who, without being definitely followers of Pythagoras, are 
known to have come more or less under the influence of Pythagorean 
speculation. Thus Parmenides’ in the preface to his great philo- 
sophical poem describes how he was conducted in a chariot ‘on the 
far-famed way of the goddess’ (Ananke?) and ‘maidens led the 
way, to wit the Heliades, who escorted him towards the light 
through the portals of Night and Day till he reached the home of 
the goddess®. The ‘way’ in question is not improbably the Milky 


1 (Od. 13. 103 fie 

2 Prokl. zz Plat. vem. ii. 128, 26 ff. Kroll. 

3 Prokl. zz Plat. vemzp. ii. 129, 24 ff. Kroll cal yap tov Wv@ayédpav 60 amroppytrwy “Avénv 
Tov yadaklay Kal romov Wuxav amoxadety, ws exel cvvwOovudvwy: 61d mapd Ticw eOveou 
yada omévderOar Tots Geois Tots THv Wuxav Kabdprats Kal TGv mecovoawv els yéveow elvar 
yara Thy rpwrnv Tpopyy. 

4 Cp. a gloss of Placidus’ in Classicorum auctorum e Vaticanis codicibus editorum 
Tomus ili curante A. Maio Romae 1831 p. 481 (=G. Goetz Corpus glossariorum Latino- 
rum Lipsiae 1894 v. 79, 26 ff.) Lacteus circulus, via quae in spera (/eg. sphaera) videtur 
quasi alba: quem alii dicunt animis heroum antiquorum refertum, et merito resplendere : 
alii viam esse quam circuit sol, et ex splendoris ipsius transitu ita lucere, Philop. de 
aeternitate mundi 7. 20 p. 290 Rabe tiwés yotdv Trav map’ abrots (sc. the Greeks) Geodb-ywv 
Kai Tov yahakiav kahovmevov KikNov \jEw elvar Kal xdpay WuxGv AoyiKGv dwepjvavTo. 

® On the Pythagoreanism of Parmenides see e.g. J. Burnet Zarly Greek Philosophy 
London and Edinburgh 1892 pp. 181 f., 197 ff. 

6 Parmen. frag. 1, 1 ff. Diels. 


The Elysian Way 43 


Way!. Again, Empedotimos of Syracuse, who figures as an 
adherent of Pythagoras’, held ‘that the Milky Way is the road of 
souls traversing the Hades in heaven*’ Platon too is presumably 
Pythagorising, when in a famous passage of the Phazdros he tells 
how god-like souls follow the gods round the great arch of heaven 
and from its summit behold sights of unspeakable splendour in the 
region beyond the sky: 


Zeus, the great chieftain in heaven, driving a winged car, travels first, 
arranging and presiding over all things; and after him comes a host of gods 
and inferior deities, marshalled in eleven divisions, for Hestia stays at home 
alone in the mansion of the gods; but all the other ruling powers, that have 
their place in the number of the twelve, march at the head of a troop in the 


1H. Diels ad loc. (Poetarum philosophorum fragmenta Berolini 1901 p. 58) says: 
“utique Solis orbita videtur intellegenda, quam poeta lucido mentis curru, felicior ille 
Phaethonte, quotiens libebat escendebat.? The mention of the Heliades does indeed 
recall Phaethon. But the fall of Phaethon was connected by the Pythagoreans with the 
Milky Way (sapra p. 40, zzfra § 3 (a) vi (A)). F. M. Cornford in his brilliant book vom 
Religion to Philosophy London 1912 pp. 214 f.; 222 n. 3 inclines to the view put forward 
by O. Gilbert in the Archiv ftir Geschichte der Philosophie tgo7 xx. 25 ff., vis. that 
Parmenides’ journey was a descent into the darkness of the Underworld. 

2 Clem. Al. strom. 1. 21 p. 82, 27 Stahlin. 

3 Souid. s.vv. "Eumedériuos and “Ioviavés, Lobeck Aglaophamus ii. 935. But see 
infra Nn. 4. 

4 Philop. 7 Aristot. #efeor. p. 117, 8 ff. Hayduck rov’ros kal rots Tovotrous THY mepl 
Tod ydNakros brbecw ‘Apiororédous avedwy Kah@s 6 Aaudoxios Ty "Humedotiuov wept Tod 
yadakros olkeobra, épyov (apyov codd., corr. C, A. Lobeck) at’riy (avrdv codd., corr. 
C. A. Lobeck) od (ante ov lac. v litt. in. cod. V.) “ior kadGv. pyaol yap Exeivos dddv elvan 
YuxGy 7d yada trav tov “Acdnv (év aby codd., tov “Avdnv corr. C. A. Lobeck) tov (av 
codd. M.V.) év ovparg diamopevopévwr. kal ob Oavpacrdr, pyclv 6 Aaudoxwos, ei cal Wuxal 
Kabalpovras év ToUTH TH KUKAW THS (KUKAW <dd> THs dub. cj. M. Hayduck) év ovpave 
yevérews, cp. 2b. p. 117, 31 ff. 0 Oé pyow ‘06s éote TO yadda Wuxay (om. ed. Ald.) ray 
Stamropevouévwy Tov év ovpav@ “Avdnv.” ef oby Tov yadakiay diamopevovTar, obros dv etn 6 év 
7@® (om. ed. Ald.) ovpav@"Acdns. Kal m&s"Acdns 6 ottw pwrewds; Kai el kabalpovrar éxet 
puxal, dnAovdte wn Kexafappévac avpdOov. See also interp. Serv. zz Verg. georg. 1. 34 
Varro tamen ait se legisse Empedotim (leg. Zmfedotimo, H. A. Lion cj. Ampedocli) 
cuidam Syracusano a quadam potestate divina mortalem aspectum detersum, eumque 
inter cetera tres portas vidisse tresque vias: unam ad signum Scorpionis, qua Hercules 
ad deos isse diceretur; alteram per limitem, qui est inter Leonem et Cancrum ; tertiam 
esse inter Aquarium et Pisces. 

The views of Empedotimos were known to Julian the Apostate from Herakleides of 
Pontos (Souid. s.vv. "Eumedériyuos and *LovNavés), who wrote a history wept ray Ilvda- 
yopetwy (Diog. Laert. 5. 88: see Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 197 Miiller) and a dialogue epi rv 
év ovpavw (Daebritz in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. viii. 476 f.). The latter, in which 
Empedotimos played a leading part, was presumably the source of Iamblichos ag. Stob, 
ecl. 1. 49. 39 p. 378, 11 ff. Wachsmuth kal rodrous ‘Hpakdeidnv wév tov ILovtixov adopi few 
mept Tov yadatiav, addous dé Kad’ das TOO ovpavod Tas caipas, ad’ wv bn SeDpo KaTrévae 
Tas Wuxds: «.7T-A. But, when Rohde Psyche? p. 95 n. contends ‘dass Empedotimos nur 
eine Dialogfigur des Heraklides war, und wohl so wenig jemals existirt hat wie Er der 
Sohn des Armenios oder Thespesios von Soli oder dessen Vorbild Kleonymos von Athen 
bei Klearch von Soli (Retz. Mus. 32, 335), he is hardly convincing. See P. Capelle 
op. cit. P. 42 0. 2. 


44 The Elysian Way 


order to which they have been severally appointed. Now there are, it iS true, 
many ravishing views and opening paths within the bounds of heaven, whereon 
the family of the blessed gods go to and fro, each in performance of his own 
proper work ; and they are followed by all who from time to time possess both 
will and power ; for envy has no place in the celestial choir. But whenever they 
go to feast and revel, they forthwith journey by an uphill path to the summit of 
the heavenly vault. Now the chariots of the gods being of equal poise, and 
obedient to the rein, move easily, but all others with difficulty ; for they are 
burdened by the horse of vicious temper, which sways and sinks them towards 
the earth, if haply he has received no good training from his charioteer. Where- 
upon there awaits the soul a crowning pain and agony. For those which we 
called immortal go outside when they are come to the topmost height, and stand 
on the outer surface of heaven, and as they stand they are borne round by its 
revolution, and gaze on the eternal scene. Now of that region beyond the sky 
no earthly bard has ever yet sung or ever will sing in worthy strains}, 


It can hardly be doubted that the ‘uphill path to the summit of the 
heavenly vault,’ a path along which the souls of the blessed go to 
the fulness of fruition, implies the Pythagorean conception of the 
Milky Way as an Elysian road. 

In the Republic the same bright track is compared with ‘the 
undergirders of triremes?’; but the figure is complicated by the 
addition of ‘a straight light like a pillar’ stretching along the axis 
of the universe*,—an idea taken up by the Manichaeans, who spoke 
of a ‘pillar of glory’ ora ‘pillar of light’ filled with souls in process 
of purification’, This pillar-has no counterpart in astronomical fact 
or, for that matter, in astronomical theory. It would, however, be 
unwise to assume that it was introduced by Platon merely to 


1 Plat. Phaedr. 246 E—247 C trans. J. Wright. An echo of this passage may be heard 
in Loukian. Dem. 50 (tnfra § 3 (a) iii’(d)). Cp. also Anth. Pal. 7. 97. 1 f. (Diog. Laert.) 
ov pdvov és Ilépoas avéBn Zevopay dia Kopor, | add’ dvobov (nr&v és Ards Arts dyor with 2d. 
7-96. 1 (Diog. Laert.) mivé vuy év Atos dv, & Dwkpares* x.7-d. 

* Note that the Pythagoreans spoke of a cosmic ‘ship’ (Philolaos frag. 12 Diels kat 
Ta pev Tas ohaipas cwuatra Tévte évtTl, TA ev TE oHalpa TIp <Kai> Udwp Kal ya Kal anp, 
kal 6 rds odalpas é\Kkas, wéurrov): supra i. 358 n. 3. 

* Plat. rep. 616 B—c. I follow the interpretation of J. Adam ad /oc., who supposes 
that the curved light was suggested by the Milky Way, but that the straight light 
symbolised the axis of the universe. He points out that some of the ancients interpreted 
the straight light of the Milky Way (Prokl. zz Plat. vem. ii. 130, 3f, 194, 19 ff. Kroll, 
cp. Cic. de rep. 6. 16), while others regarded it as the axis of the universe or a cylinder of 
aetherial fire surrounding the axis (Theon Smyrn. wepi rv kara 7d wabgnmarixov xpnoluwv 
els Thy II\dtwvos avayywow p. 143 Hiller, Phot. ex. and Souid. s.v. rerapévov Pas evdvd 
oiov kiova, cp. Prokl. iz Plat. vem. ii. 199, 31 ff. Kroll). 

4 Epiphan. panar. x. 66. 26 (iii. 1. 48, 11 ff. Dindorf) THs ofv cedyvns peradcdovons 
Tov youov Tav WuxGv Tots aldot Tod warps, mapamévovow ev TO oTUAW THs ObEnNS, ds KaNetraL 
anp 6 TéNevos. 0 be anp ovTOs oTIAbS EoTL Pwrds, ErELdH yeuer WuXdY T&V Kafapifouévwv. In 
view of J. Adam’s elucidation of the Platonic @&s ed6U, ofov xlova I cannot agree with 
I. de Beausobre Histoire de Manichée et du Manicheisme Amsterdam 1739 ii. 513 ‘A V’égard 
de la Colonne de Gloire, ou de Lumiere, elle n’est autre chose, si je ne me trompe, que la 
Voye Lactée.’ 


The Sky-Pillar in Italy ee 5; 


facilitate the transition to his ensuing image—the ‘spindle of 
Ananke.’ Rather we may surmise that it was based upon popular 
belief with ritual usage behind it. 


(8) The Sky-Pillar in Italy. 


In seeking the antecedents of a Pythagorean or gwasz-Pytha- 
gorean doctrine we turn first to south Italy, where the order planted 
by Pythagoras took root and flourished. It would not be surprising 
if somewhere in the neighbourhood of Kroton and Metapontum we 
came across a definite cult of Zeus conceived as residing in or on a 
pillar. If I am not mistaken, we find such a cult at Tarentum. For 
here was a colossal bronze statue of Zeus, made by Lysippos, with 
a notable pillar beside it!. And here too sacrifices were offered on 
pillars to the lightning-god Zeus Kataibdtes—a practice which, as 
we saw, had probably been inherited from ‘Minoan’ times”. Apulian 
and Campanian vases, also, represent Zeus fulminant on the top of 
a pillar’. Altogether, it looks as though there were in south Italy 
an old belief that Zeus with his lightnings dwelt on high above an 
obvious tangible pillar, his vehicle and support. 

A similar belief with regard to Iupiter seems to have prevailed 
at Rome during republican days. In 152 B.c. a column standing 
before the temple-of Iupiter on the Campus was blown down with 
its gilded statue. The diviners predicted the death of magistrates 
and priests: whereupon all the magistrates abdicated in a body‘. 





1 Supra i. 35f. This statue, with sides reversed, furnished Theodoros, the designer 
or copyist of the ¢aéu’a /diaca, with an interesting scene. In the uppermost register of his 
composition Thetis pleads before Zeus (Z/. 1. 498 ff.), who is seated in the same pensive 
attitude beside a pillar (O. Jahn—A. Michaelis Griechische Bilderchroniken Bonn 1873 
pp. 12f., 26 pl. 1, A. Baumeister Denkm. i. 717 pl. 13 fig. 775, Stuart Jones Cat. Sculpt. 
Mus. Capit. Rome p. 166 no. 83 pl. 41 
(bibliography 2d. p. 172)). Fig. 17 is from 
J.N. Svoronos in the Journ. Lntern. ad’ Arch. 
Num. 1912 xiv. 280f. fig. 25. Svoronos 
says: “OmirOev 6é rod Avos rovrou, én’ avris 
THS Kopupys TOO ONTO, WWotrar medwpios 
kiwy pépwv Tov obpdvoy Addov, but C. Robert 
in the Arch. Zett. 1874 xxxii. 107 expressly 
warns us that the supposed arch over Zeus 
is ‘nur eine Verletzung des Marmors,’ and 
Stuart Jones printsIEY,notIOY. A fresh 
inspection of the marble is much to be de- 
sired. Vide Addenda in hunc loc. For Theodoros’ utilisation of past models see A. Briining 
in the Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1894 ix. 136 ff. 

2 Supra p. 29 ff. 3 Supra i. 36 ff., 409, 520 ne 2 

4 Tul. Obs. 18 M. Claudio Marcello L. Valerio Flacco coss. turbinis vi in Campo 
columna ante aedem Iovis decussa cum signo aurato; cumque aruspices respondissent 
magistratuum et sacerdotum interitum fore, omnes magistratus se protinus abdicaverunt. 





Fig. 17. 


46 The Sky-Pillar in Italy 


The list of portents for the year 96 B.C. includes an owl killed on 
the Capitol, many things destroyed by lightning, and gilded statues 
of Iupiter overthrown with capital (?) and column to boot?. A third 
incident of like character is recorded with somewhat greater detail. 
It appears that in 65 B.C. an appalling thunderstorm burst over 
Rome. ‘On the Capitol,’ says Dion Cassius’, ‘many statues and 
images were melted by thunderbolts, among others one of Iupiter 
set on a column, while a likeness of the she-wolf with Remus and 
Romulus fell from its pedestal. The diviners, hastily summoned 
from all parts of Etruria, foretold the end of Rome. At their advice 
desperate efforts were made to placate the gods. Games were held 
for ten days, and a larger*® statue of Iupiter was erected on a yet 
loftier column with its face turned towards the east. Two years 
later—for the work progressed slowly—this statue was being placed 
in position at the moment when Cicero was delivering his third 
speech against Catiline; and the speaker was quick to profit by 
the coincidence. Surely the detection and punishment of the great 
conspiracy were due to Iupiter himself, whose penetrating gaze was 
even now directed upon the Forum and the Senate House‘. 


Pighius cj. 2 Capztolio for in Campo. But the change is unnecessary; for there was an 
ancient hypaethral sanctuary of Iupiter /zdgur in the Campus (E. Aust in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. ii. 656, Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rim. p. 121 f., H. Kiepert et C. Huelsen Formae 
urbis Romae antiguae* Berolini 1912 p. 20). Besides, the temple of Iupiter S¢a¢or in the 
Porticus Metelli (H. Jordan—C. Huelsen Zopographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 
1907 i. 3. 538 ff., H. Kiepert et C. Huelsen of. cit. p, 22) was perhaps in existence before 
147 B.C. (S. B. Platner The Topography and Monuments of Ancient Rome Boston 1904 
p- 330). Itshould, however, be noticed that Iul. Obs. 18 does not definitely describe the 
ruined monument as a statue of Iupiter. J. Scheffer ad Joc. took it to have been the 
portrait of some magistrate. 

1 Tul. Obs. 49 Cn. Domitio C. Cassio coss....bubo in Capitolio occisus. fulmine 
pleraque decussa. signa aurata Iovis cum capite columnaque disiecta. O. Jahn cj. statua 
for capite. But O. Rossbach ad /oc. understands caput as the ‘capital’ of a column, not 
as the ‘head’ of a statue. The meaning is not beyond doubt, since (a) the plural ségza 
accords ill with the singulars capzte, colwmmna, and (6) it is known that two cafzta, in the 
sense of colossal ‘heads,’ were dedicated on the Capitol by-P. Lentulus (Plin. zaz. hzst. 
34: 44). 

2 Dion Cass. 37. 9 év yap T@ KamitwXlw davdpedytes Te Tool bro KepavvGv cwvexwved- 
Onoav Kal dyd\wara adda Te kal Ards éml klovos idpupévov, elkwy Té Tis NuKalyyns aby TE TH 
‘Pow kal olv TO “Pantry ldpumévn erece, k.T-A. Cp. 2b. 37. 34. 

3 On the principle involved see Folk-Lore 1903 xiv. 270 f., supra i. 563 f. In 293 B.c. 
Sp. Carvilius made the breastplates, greaves, and helmets of the vanquished Samnites 
into a statue of Iupiter, which he set up on the Capitol,—a statue large enough to be 
visible from the temple of Iupiter Za¢zarzs.on the Alban Mount. From the filings he 
made a statue of himself, to stand at the feet of the god (Plin. at. hist. 34. 43: but Liv. 
10. 46 does not mention this group). 

4 Cic. iw Cat. 3. 19 ff. (20 simulacrum Iovis facere maius et in excelso collocare et 
contra, atque ante fuerat, ad orientem convertere), de consulatu suo 2. 33 ff. (60 Lupiter 
excelsa clarabat sceptra columna) a. de div. 1..19 ff., 2. 45 f., Quint. zzst. or. 5. 11. 42 
utitur eo Cicero...in contione contra Catilinam, cum signum Iovis columnae impositum 


The Sky-Pillar in the ‘Minoan’ area 47 


The notion that the sky-god resided in person on the top of a 
high pillar might presumably be combined with a belief in the 
Milky Way as a road to his residence. Indeed, a remarkable block 
of Italian marble, now at Berlin, shows lupiter enthroned on the 
summit of a pillar that rises sheer from earth to heaven, while two 
females ascend the arch of the sky and enter his very presence? 


(vy) The Sky-Pillar in the ‘Minoan’ area. 


Italy stretches from south-east to north-west. Accordingly the 
beliefs and practices here noted find their nearest analogues in the 
‘Minoan’ and the early Germanic areas. On the one hand, we have 
sufficient evidence to be tolerably sure that the ‘Minoan’ sky-god 





was associated both with the Milky Way and witha high pillar. The 
great gold ring from Mykenai (fig. 18)? exhibits a deity, armed with 


populo ostendit, Iul. Obs. 61 M. Cicerone C. Antonio coss....inter alia relatu<m>, 
biennio ante in Capitolio lupam Remi et Romuli fulmine ictam, signumque Iovis cum 
columna disiectum, aruspicum responso.in foro repositum (where 27 foro is inexact), 
Arnob. adv. nat. 7. 40 sed neque hoc nostram conscientiam fugit lectum et positum, ictum 
cum esset Capitolium fulmine multaque in hoc alia, Iovis etiam simulacrum, sublimi quod 
in culmine stabat, suis esse ab sedibus provolutum. responsum deinde ab haruspicibus 
editum res saevas (Meursius. cj. seaevas) tristissimasque portendi ab incendiis, caedibus, 
ab legum interitu et ab iuris occasu, maxime tamen ab domesticis hostibus atque ab impia 
coniuratorum manu. sed flecti haec posse (Meursius omy. fosse), immo aliter publicari j 
scelerata non posse consilia, nisi Iuppiter rursus altiore in culmine figeretur, orientalem 
conversus ad cardinem radiisque oppositus solis. adfuisse’dicto fidem: nam subrecto 
culmine conversoque ad solem signo patuisse res abditas et reserata in maleficia vindicatum. 

1 Supra i. 62 fig. 38. 

* Supra i. 623. I reduce to a scale of § the careful drawing (scale #) given by Sir 
A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 108 fig. 4. 


The Sky-Pillar in the ‘Minoan’ area 


48 





IQ. 


Fig. 


xe descending side by side towards 


,and a double a 
goddess and her maidens from a wavy track, which crosses 


shield and spear 


the earth 





es) 
msem ite: WS 
ra’. 


Th 


Fig. 20. 


The Sky-Pillar in the ‘Minoan’ area 49 


the sky and probably represents the Milky Way?. Another large 
gold signet from Knossos (fig. 19)? shows a god with a spear carried 
in his right hand and rays of light (?)* darting from his shoulders as 
he descends from a tall tapering pillar towards a female worshipper. 
That the shield-bearing deity of the first ring is to be identified with 
the rayed god of the second ring, appears from a third representation 
on a painted /érnax found at Miletos (J7@z/ato) in Crete (fig. 20)4, 
which gives him both shield and rays(?). It can hardly be doubted 


1 Opinions have differed as to the interpretation of this wayy band: see e.g. 
C. Schuchhardt Schliemann’s Excavations trans. E. Sellers London 1891 p. 277 (‘pro- 
bably...the sea’), Collignon Hist. de la Sculpt. gr. i. 46 (‘sans doute la mer’), Perrot— 
Chipiez “7st. de 7’ Art vi. 841 (‘peut-étre la mer’), Ch. Tsountas—J. I. Manatt Zhe 
Mycenaean Age London 1897 p. 298 (‘the cloud-canopy’), Furtwangler Az¢. Gemmen 
ii. 10 (‘die Andeutung des Himmelsoceans, des Okeanos (oder der Wolken ?)’). Milani 
Stud. e mat. di arch. e num. 1899—1901 i. 196 fig. 27 says ‘la via lattea,’ and Harrison 
Themis p. 168 fig. 36 ‘ Milky Way,’—rightly, as I conceive. It should be noticed that 
both the goddess and her maidens wear lilies in their hair (supra i. 623), and that the 





Fig.. 21. 


milk-white lily was supposed by the later Greeks to have originated from the Milky Way © 
(seepra i. 624). A somewhat analogous design occurs on a gold ring found in a tomb of 
the Late ‘ Minoan’ ii period at Isopata in Crete: four females dance in a field of lilies, 
while a diminutive goddess descends towards them from a wavy line apparently betokening 
the sky (fig. 21 ({) after Sir A. J. Evans in Archaeologia 1913—1914 Ixv. to fig. 16). 
Cp. also another gold ring from a tomb in the lower town at Mykenai, now at Athens 
(Stais Coll. Mycénienne: Athénes p. 71 f. no. 3179 fig., H. Fritze in the Strena Helbigiana 
p- 73 fig. 1, Furtwangler Ant. Gemmen i pl. 6, 3, il. 25 fig., Sir A. J. Evans in the 
Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 176 ff. fig. 53, Harrison Zhemzs p. 166 fig. 34). 

2 Procured by Sir A. J. Evans from the site of Knossos and by him published, to a 
scale of ¢, in the Journ. Hell. Std. 1901 xxi. 170 ff. fig. 48. 

® So Sir A. J. Evans Joc. cit. But in Archaeologia 1906 lix. 100, 26. 19131914 Ixv. 
rt he retracts this interpretation, and now suggests that the rapid descent of the divinity 
is indicated by long locks of hair flying out on either side. In view of the very similar 
representations of the Babylonian Samas (seepra i. 553 n. 5) I prefer the former expla- 
nation. 

4 Found by Sir A. J. Evans in 1899 within a chambered tomb at J/z/ato and by him 
published in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 174f. fig. 50. 


COAG 4 


50 The Irminsiil 


that the god in question is the ‘Minoan’ sky-god, who descends in 
his panoply from the heights of heaven. 


(5) The Irminsal. 


On the other hand, the early Germanic sky-god plays a some- 
what similar part. His name in Old High German was *Z7u or 
* Zio, in Anglo-Saxon * 77zw, in Norse 7yr. But whether these forms 
are more nearly related to the Greek Zezs or to its doublet the 
Latin detvos is a question hotly disputed by philologists.. In any 
case Ziu was a sky-god conceived as a warrior and consequently 
equated by classical writers with Ares or Mars®. ‘Other names for 
Tiu,’ says Prof. P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye’, ‘are perhaps Dings 


1 See e.g. K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 i. 270f.: ‘Die 
urgermanische Form des Namens ahd. *Ziu, *Zio, ags. * 7fw™ [7 Die ags. und ahd. 
Nominative sind nur aus Zusammensetzungen (Wochentagsnamen und Ortsnamen) zu 
erschliessen.], nord. Tyr” [Mit Umlaut 7>7 vor tautosyllabischem w; vgl. Noreen, 
Altisl. und altnorw. Grammatik, § 72, 5.] wird verschieden angesetzt, am besten als 
Wurzelstamm * 772 aus * Zzeus, idg. *Dzeus, wozu skr. Dydus, gr. Leds, lat. Ju( piter), 
Jovis als nahe etymologische Verwandte treten. Gegen diesen Ansatz hat sich Bremer™® 
[7* Der germanische Himmelsgott, JF. 111, S. 301 f.; vgl. Streitberg zur German. Sprach- 
geschichte, S. 72; Kogel, LG. 1, 1, S. 143 Schrader, Sprachvergleichung und Urge- 
schichte’, 11, S. 439. Noreen, Abriss der urgerm. Lautlehre, stellt sich S. 176, Anm. ro 
auf Bremers Seite, wahrend er S. 28 und aisl. Gramm, § 68, 7, selbst die Gleichsetzung 
Dyaus—Zio verzeichnet.—Beide Etymologien beriihren sich iibrigens; denn die zugrunde 
liegenden Wurzelformen idg. *dew und *dez-w-0 scheinen im Ablaut miteinander zu stehen 
(vgl. Walde, Lat. etym. Wb.?, S. 230), abgesehen von dem bei der zweiten Form 
eingetretenen Ubergang aus der Klasse der Wurzelnomina in die a-Klasse.] mit Ent- 
schiedenheit, aber ohne zwingende Griinde gewendet und setzt einen germ. wa-Stamm 
*Ttwaz an, wozu der nordische Plural ¢#vav’4 [74 Heterosyllabisches zw bewirkt keinen 
Umlaut.] ,,Gotter ‘‘, ind. déva, lit. dévas, lat. dees (aus *dezzvos) zu stellen sind.’ Similarly 
my friend the Rev. Prof. J. H. Moulton Zarly Zoroastrianism London 1913 p. 393 n. 
observes that the argument of O. Bremer (‘Der germanische Himmelsgott’ in the Zzdo- 
germanische Forschungen 1894 iii. 301 f.) for attaching the Germanic words to deivos 
rather than to dyéus did not convince O. Schrader (Reallex. p. 670), cp. J. Hastings 
Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics Edinburgh 1909 ii. 33 n., and that the High German 
Z10 is declared by the paramount authority of K. Brugmann Grumndriss der vergleichenden 
Grammatik der indogermanischen Sprachen® Strassburg 1897 i. 133 f. to suit either origin, 
but that in the opinion of Prof. H. M. Chadwick (Zhe Cult of Othin London 1899 p. 2) 
the Old English form (7%, Z7zw-) cannot be traced to anything but dezvos. 

2 J. Grimm Zewtontc Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 1096 ff., 
E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 220 ff., W. Golther Handbuch der 
germanschen Mythologie Leipzig 1895 p. 200 ff., K. Miillenhoff Deutsche Altertumshkunde 
Berlin 1900 iv. 217, 460, 525f., P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye 7he Religion of the 
Teutons Boston and London 1902 pp. 106, 243 ff., R. M. Meyer Alégermanische Re- 
ligionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 p. 180 ff., K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte 
Heidelberg 1913 i. 273 f. : 

3 P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye Zhe Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 
1902 p. 245. 


The Lrminsiil 51 


(in Marti Thingso’ and Dinsdag?, Tuesday) and, with more certainty, 
Er (Erchtag) among the Bavarians*, and Sahsnot (Anglo-Saxon 
Seaxneat, ze. sword companion) among the Saxons‘. The Anglo- 
Saxon rune (Ear) is also referred to him® Finally Iring, the 


1 Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 4760 deo | Marti | Thingso | et duabus | Alaisiagis | 
Bede et Fijmmilene | et n(uminibus) Aug(ustorum) Ger|m(ani) cives Tuljihanti | v.s.1.m., 
cp. no. 4761 deo | Marti et duabus | Alaisiagis et n(uminibus) Aug(ustorum) | Ger(mani) 
cives Tuihanti | cunei Frisiorum | Ver(....) Ser(....) Alexand|riani votum | solveru[nt] | 
libent[es m.]. These inscriptions were found in 1883 on two altars at Housesteads, the 
site of Borcovicium the eighth station on Hadrian’s wall. Vhe former altar has on its 
right side the relief of a female figure, doubtless one of the Alaisiagae. The latter altar 
has a small fro¢ome in front and sacrificial implements on the sides. Further, a semicircular 
top belonging to one of the altars represents Mars as an armed warrior with a swan or 
goose flanked by two hovering attendants. These altars were dedicated in the reign of 
Alexander Severus (222—235 A.D.) by Germani from Tuianti, the modern Twenthe. For 
a full bibliography see K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 
i. 366 n. 80. 

L. Laistner Das Ratsel der Sphinx Berlin 1889 11. 450 observes: ‘ Der friesische JZars 
Thingsus, dieser Levs ayopatos der Germanen, neben welchem weibliche Gottheiten genannt 
werden ahnlich wie Dike neben Zeus, ist dargestellt mit einem Schwan, der sich ver- 
traulich an ihn schmiegt und wohl eben diese weibliche Gefolgschaft andeuten soll: Ziu 
mit dem Schwane und Zeus mit den Schwanfrauen weisen auf eine uralte gemeineuropaische 
Vorstellung hin (vgl. auch Hoffory, Eddastudien 1, 145 ff.).’ 

2 E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp. 220, 222, R. Much ‘ Der 
germanische Himmelsgott’ in Abhandlungen zur germanischen Philologie (Festgabe fiir 
Richard Heinzel) Halle a. S. 1898 p. 193f., R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religions- 
geschichte Leipzig 1910 p. 187, K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 
1913 i. 370. 

3 J. Grimm Zeutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 201 ff., 1888 
iv. 1351, E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 221, W. Golther Handbuch 
der germanischen Mythologie Leipzig 1895 pp. 210, 213, R. Much ‘Der germanische 
Himmelsgott’ in Abhandlungen sur germantschen Philologie (festgabe fiir Richard 
Hieinzel) Halle a. S. 1898 p. 195 ff., K. Miillenhoff Deztsche Altertumskunde Berlin 
1900 iv. 523, 644 n.**, R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 

- 192. : 
: vy. Grimm Zeztonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 203 f., 1888 
iv. 1351, E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp. 221, 225, W. Golther 
Handbuch der germanischen Mythologie Leipzig 1895 p- 213 f., R. Much ‘Der ger- 
manische Himmelsgott’ in Adhandlungen zur germanischen Philologie (Festgabe fiir 
Richard Heinzel) Halle a. S. 1898 p. 225f., K. Miillenhoff Deztsche Altertumskunde 
Berlin 1g00 iv. 523, R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910. 

p. 196. 

® So J. Grimm Zeutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 199 ff., 1888 
iv. 1351, E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 221, K. Simrock Handbuch 
der Deutschen Mythologie Bonn 1878 p. 273, W- Golther Handbuch der germanischen 
Mythologie Leipzig 1895 p. 213. Their view is based on the following evidence. (a) In 
the Runic alphabets of cod. Cotton. Otho B 10 (G. Hickes Liénguarum Veterum Septen- 
trionalium Thesaurus grammatico-criticus Oxonie 1705 i. 135, G. Stephens Zhe Old- 
Northern Runic Monuments of Scandinavia and England London—Kobenhavn 1866-67 
i. 100 no. 5, L. F. A. Wimmer Die Runenschrift Berlin 1887 p. 85) and cod. Cotton. 


Domitian A 9 (G. Hickes of. cit. i. 136, G. Stephens of. czt. i. 102 no. g) the rune rst 
called, not only ear, but also “#v. (4) In other Anglo-Saxon alphabets ‘VY is used for the 


4—2 


52 The Irminsiil 


Thuringian hero, who with his sword slays two kings, is, according 
to some, likewise a form of Tiut.” Now the Milky Way was known 
as Irvingesstraza or Iringes wec, the ‘Street’ or ‘ Road of Iring®.’ If, 
therefore, Iring is rightly regarded as a form of Ziu, we have here 
the Germanic parallel to Pindar’s ‘road of Zeus*” That road led up 
‘to Kronos’ tower.’ But the counterpart of this mysterious destina- 
tion is hardly to be found in Germanic myth. It might rather be 
sought in the Celtic area ; fora Welsh name of the Milky Way was 
caer Gwydion, the ‘castle of Gwydion*’ However that may be, 
Iring is in legend closely associated with Irmenfried, king of the 
Thuringians’ ; and /vmzn, the ‘Uplifted One’, is commonly thought 
to have been another name or surname of Ziu’. It was probably as 


letter z, and in cod. Cotton. Tiberius D 18 (J. M. Kemble ‘On Anglo-Saxon Runes’ 
in Archexologia 1840 xxviii. 338 pl. 15, 1f., G. Stephens of. cit. i. 107 no. 24) is 
called zzz But Mr B. Dickins, to whom I applied for a criticism of the whole hypothesis, 
‘has shown convincingly that it rests on a complete misconception of the da¢a. His 
remarks, too important to be compressed into a footnote, will be found printed in the 
Addenda ad doc. 

1 J. Grimm /rmenstrasze und Irmensiule Wien 1815 p. 21 ff., p. 41 (=KXleinere 
Schriften Giitersloh 1890 viii. 479 ff., 490), 2d. Teutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass 
London 1882 i. 358 ff., 1888 iv. 1389 f. 

2 J. Grimm /rmenstrasze und Irmensiule Wien 1815 p. 22 ff. (= Kleinere Schriften 
Giitersloh 1890 viii. 479 ff.), 2d. Zeewtonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 
i. 358 ff, 1888 iv. 1389, E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 89, 
K. Miillenhoff Deutsche Altertumskunde Berlin 1900 iv. 117. 

3 Supra p. 36f. 

4 W. Owen Pughe Geiriadur Cenhedlaethol Cymraeg a Saesneg* (A National Dictionary 
of the Welsh Language, with English and Welsh Equivalents) enlarged by R. J. Pryse 
Denbigh 1866 i. 297 ‘ Caer gwydion—the gallaxy, so called from Gwydion ab Don, who, 
having a knowledge of astronomy, was deemed a conjurer.’ H. Gaidoz and E. Rolland 
in AZélusine Paris 1884—85 ii. 153 n. 1 comment: ‘Ce nom n’est pas populaire; il ne se 
trouve que dans certains dictionnaires, et il nous parait suspect.’ But J. Grimm Zezfonic 
Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 150 n. 2 and 357 n. I saw no reason to 
doubt it, and it is accepted by Sir J. Rhys Azdbert Lectures 1886* London 1898 p. 240, 
ad. Celtic Folklore Welsh and Manx Oxford 1901 ii. 645, C. Squire The Mythology of the 
British /slands London 1905 pp. 253, 268, J. A. MacCulloch The Religion of the Ancient 
Celts Edinburgh rgtit p. 107. 

> See the references cited supra n. 1. 

® My friend Prof. H. M. Chadwick points out to me (April 3, 1917) that Zrméz is 
presumably a participial formation resembling in both sound and sense jpuévos (alpw), the 
‘Uplifted One.’ If so, Zrmn was "Tyioros. 

” £E.g. W. Golther Handbuch der germanischen Mythologie Leipzig 1895 p. 209 ‘ Mit 
Irmino ist ebenfalls Tiuz gemeint,’ K. Miillenhoff Deutsche Altertumskunde Berlin 1900 
iv. 117 ‘die entscheidende und wichtigste stelle iiber Irmin findet sich bei Widukind 1, 
12. sie ist von mir in der abhandlung iiber Tuisto und seine nachkommen in Schmidts 
allg. zs. fiir gesch. 8 (1847), 242 ff. erlautert worden [reprinted in the Deutsche Altertums- 
kunde iv. 519 ff.]. nach ihr und einigen andern zeugnissen ist Irmin beiname des alten 
himmelsgottes Tin, altn. 77, ags. in Zivesdég, ahd. Zio, mit anderm namen £r,’ 
R. M. Meyer Aligermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 p. 192 ‘Zrmin ist sicher 
Tiu.’ For a critical investigation of the evidence see R. Much ‘ Der germanische Him- 


The Lrminsiil 53 


the sign and symbol of this sky-god that the ancient Saxons wor- 
shipped a high pillar named the /rmznsi/.. Thus, when Charles the 
Great in 772 A.D. destroyed one of their cult-centres near Eresburg 
in Westphalia, he overthrew a great trunk of timber erected under 
the open sky and reverenced by the natives as the /rminsd/, a world- 
- pillar supporting all things’. Again, in 530 A.D. the Saxons had won 
a great victory over the Thuringians at Scheidungen on the Unstrut. 
‘And, when morning dawned,’ says Widukind®, ‘ they set up an eagle 
at the eastern gate and, erecting an altar of victory, worshipped their 


melsgott’ in Adhandlungen zur germanischen Philologie (Festgabe fiir Richard Heinzel) 
Halle a. S. 1898 p. 197 ff. 

' The best collection of evidence is still that of J. Grimm Zeuéontc Mythology trans. 
J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 115 ff., 353 ff., 1883 ii. 799f., 1888 iv. (312, 1322. 
Cp. E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp. 17, 83, W. Golther Handbuch 
der germanischen Mythologie Leipzig 1895 p- 593 ff-, R. Much ‘ Der germanische Himmels- 
gott’ in Adhandlungen zur germanischen Philologie (Festgabe fiir Richard Heinzel) Halle 
a. S. 1898 p. 203, K. Miillenhoff Dezdtsche Altertumskunde Berlin 1900 iv. 520 ff., 
P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye The Religton of the Teutons Boston and London 1902 
pp. 124f., 360, Forrer Read/ex. p. 389, R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Relivionsgeschichte 
Leipzig 1910 p. 192, K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 
P. 339f. 

* Rudolph of Fulda trvanslatio S. Alexandri 3 (G. H. Pertz Monumenta Germaniae 
historica Hannoverae 1829 ii. 676) Frondosis arboribus fontibusque venerationem ex- 
hibebant. Truncum quoque ligni non parvae magnitudinis in altum erectum sub divo 
colebant, patria eum lingua Irminsul appellantes, quod latine dicitur universalis columna, 
quasi sustinens omnia. This passage was penned between 863 and March 865 A.D. It 
may therefore be regarded as containing a comparatively trustworthy tradition of events 
that had happened less than a century earlier. But we must beware of mistranslating the 
last two clauses. P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye 7he Religion of the Teutons Boston 
and London 1902 p. 124f. renders ‘a wooden pillar of unusual size in the open air, 
worshipped in common, and whose destruction was a national calamity.’ This interpreta- 
tion (though in agreement with that of W. Mannhardt Wald- und Feldkulte? Berlin 1904 
i. 303 ff., who took the Zrmznsil to be the ‘ Lebensbawm der Volksgesammtheit’) is 
certainly wrong. The Latin wszversalis columna, quast sustinens omnia can mean only 
that the pillar in question was conceived to be the prop or central support of the universe. 

_ This is clearly perceived and, to my thinking, successfully proved by F. Hertlein Die 
Juppitergigantensiulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 73 ff. 

% Widukind wes gestae Saxonicae 1. 12 (G. H. Pertz Monumenta Germantae historica 
Hannoverae 1839 iii. 423 f.) Mane autem facto ad orientalem portam ponunt aquilam, 
aramque victoriae construentes, secundum errorem paternum sacra sua propria veneratione 
venerati sunt ; nomine Martem, effigie columpnarum imitantes Herculem, loco Solem, 
quem Graeci appellant Apollinem. Ex hoc apparet aestimationem illorum utcumque 
probabilem, qui Saxones originem duxisse putant de Graecis, quia Hirmin vel Hermis 
graece Mars dicitur; quo vocabulo ad laudem vel ad vituperationem usque hodie etiam 
ignorantes utimur. K. Miillenhoff Deztsche Altertumskunde Berlin 1900 iv. 520 ff, 
following Pertz ad /oc., understands aram...victoriae as an Jrminsil and construes nomine 
(arae imitantes) Martem, effigie columpnarum (arae) imitantes Herculem, loco (arae tmi- 
tantes) Solem. See infra § 3 (a) iii (0). As to Widukind’s concluding remark, J. Grimm 
Teutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 354f., 1888 iv. 1388 notes 
that in Westphalia and Hesse the name Irmin still survives in a variety of popular sayings 
under the forms Herm, Herme, Hermen, Herman, etc. 


54 The Lrminsil 


divinities with due rites according to the error of their fathers. In 
name they copied Mars, in effigy of columns Hercules, in site Sol 
whom the Greeks term Apollo. This renders highly probable the 
view of those who hold that the Saxons originated from the Greeks, 
because Mars is called Hirmin, or in Greek Hermis,—a name still 
used by us, though we know it not, for praise or blame. The 
chronicler is a would-be classic, and fond of a rhetorical flourish ; but 
there is little doubt that he means to describe the erection and wor- 
ship of an /rmznsil. Indeed, such pillars were probably of frequent 
occurrence among the tribes that worshipped Ziu. 

It would seem, then, that Hy and /vmzn were appellatives of the 
Germanic sky-god, who was connected in legend with the Milky Way 
and in cult with a high column viewed as a world-pillar or universal 
support. In face of these facts I surmise that the myth in Platon’s 
Republic, which combined the curved light of the Galaxy and the 
‘straight light like a pillar, is not altogether independent of early 
Germanic belief. I would even risk the conjecture that in the hero 
of the Platonic myth, Zrv son of Avmenios, we have the Grecised 
equivalent of both Ar and /rmzn’. 

To this it may be objected that alike in time and in place the 
Germanic world was too remote from the Hellenic to have influenced 
Platon. But in both respects, as we shall see later?, a half-way house 
can be found, thanks to Orpheus, that marvellous mediator between 
barbarian and Greek. 

Meantime I would point out that the /mzns#/ or universe-prop 
implies the primitive notion that the sky stands in need of a visible 
support. Early man was in fact haunted by a very definite dread 
that it might collapse on the top of him*. The classical authors bear 


1 J. Adam in his note on Plat. rep. 6148 "Hpds Tod ’Appeviov, 7d yévos Haupidou 
thinks that ‘The names point to the East,’ but, like other commentators, fails to make 
out any convincing connexion. No doubt Er was a Hebrew name (Souid. 5.v."Hp), borne 


e.g. by one of the ancestors of Joseph the husband of the Virgin Mary (Luke 3. 28); and 


some of the ancients certainly understood ’Hpis of Zoroastres (Clem. Al. s¢rom. age 
Pp. 395, 17 ff. Stahlin, Prokl. zw Plat. vem. ii. 109, 8 ff. Kroll, cp. Arnob. adv. nat. 
I. 52}, rendering rod ’Apueviov either ‘the son of Armenios’ (Clem. Al. s¢rom. Coane 
P- 395, 20, Prokl. zz Plat. vem. ii. 109, 14, 110, rr and 20f. Kroll) or ‘the Armenian’ 
(Prokl. zw Plat. vemp. ii. 110, 15 ff. Kroll, cp. Arnob. adv. nat. 1. 52), or else altering 
it into rod ’Apuoviov (cp. Prokl. zz Plat. remp. ii. 110, 11 ff. Kroll) or rod ‘Appoviou 
(cp. Plout. symp. 9. 5. 2). But, so far as I know, neither the Milky Way nor the 
eae light like a pillar’ figured in the teaching of Zoroastres (see, however, Supra 
P> 33/21-)- 

2 Infrd § 3 (a) iii (Y. 

* I am indebted to my daughter for a reference to the folk-tale of flenny-Penny 
(J. Jacobs English Fairy Tales London 1898 pp. 113 ff., 243 f.), which begins: ‘One 
day Henny-penny was picking up corn in the cornyard when—whack !—something hit 
her upon the head. ‘Goodness gracious me!” said Henny-penny; ‘‘the sky’s a-going 


The Irminsit/ 55 


witness to the terror which this thought inspired among the peoples 
of Central Europe. Strabon! and Arrian? both tell us that in the 
year 335 B.C. the Celts of the Adriatic, men of great stature and 
a haughty disposition, sent envoys to sue for the friendship of 
Alexander. The Macedonian monarch received them in state and 
asked them what they dreaded most, expecting the obvious answer 
‘You.’ To his chagrin they replied that they had but one fear—lest 
the sky should some day fall upon them! So he promptly packed 
them off, with the cutting remark that the Celts were constitutional 
braggarts. Again, in the year 179 B.C. an army of over thirty 
thousand stalwart Bastarnians, led by their chief Clondicus, marched 
against Dardania, but were daunted by a big thunderstorm on 
Mount Donuca. They declared, says Livy’, that the gods were 
routing them and the sky falling upon them. 

These wild notions were not confined to the barbarians of Middle 
Europe. They have at least left traces of themselves in the litera- 
ture of Italy and Greece, traces which become clearer and more 
tangible as we follow them back into the past. Horace‘, who has of 
course outgrown such nonsense, uses it just to round off an effective 
stanza: even if the sky should come tumbling about him, the well- 
conducted and resolute Roman would not turn a hair®. Terence® 
treats the matter more seriously: wanting a proverb to describe 
undue timidity, he introduces ‘the folk that say “ What if the sky 
were to fall this very moment?”’ We gather that there were such 
folk in the second century B.C., superstitious peasants or the like. 
But for a fuller expression of their belief we must get back another 
three or four hundred years. Theognis’ of Megara in a characteristic 
passage protests that he loves his friend and hates his foe, adding 
by way of solemn confirmation: ‘Else may the great broad sky of 
bronze come crashing down upon me, that terror of earth-born men,’ 
I need not labour the point. It is clear that the lower classes 
in Italy and at least the Megarians in Greece shared with Celts 
and Bastarnians the paralysing fear that some day the sky itself 
might fall. 


to fall; I must go and tell the king.” So she went along and she went along and she 
went along till she met Cocky-locky. ‘‘ Where are you going, Henny-penny?” says 
Cocky-locky. ‘‘Oh! I’m going to tell the king the sky’s a-falling,” says Henny-penny. 
**May I come with you?” says Cocky-locky. ‘“‘ Certainly,” says Henny-penny. So 
Henny-penny and Cocky-locky went to tell the king the sky was falling.’ Etc. See 
further J. Grimm Geschichte der deutschen Sprache® Leipzig 1868 i. 322 n. *, ta. Teutonic 
Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1883 ii. 813 n. 2, 1888 iv. 1541. 

1 Strab. 301 f. 2 Arrian. 1. 4. 6—8. 

Wives 4On 50: a Hor. aia. 22 Wits 

> Cp. Plout. de facie in orbe lunae 6. 

§ Ter. heaut. 719. 7 Theogn, 869 f. 


56 The Irminsiil 


How that belief arose, we can only surmise. It may be that in 
the dim past, when the ancestors of these tribes developed out of 
hunters into herdsmen and emerged from the forest on to the open 
plain, they missed the big tree that seemed to support the sky 
(‘heaven-reaching, as Homer? calls it). And in the absence of 
that mighty prop there was nothing to guarantee the safety of 
their roof”. 

Now early man was a practical person. His roof being insecure, 
he proceeded to shore it up. The /rmznsz/ was primarily a sky- 
prop, though we may well believe that it came to be viewed as the 


1 Od. 5. 239 édarn 7 HY odpavounkns, cp. Hdt. 2. 138 dévdpea otpavounxea, Anth. Pal. 
4. 1. 49f. (Meleagros) odpavoudkevs | polyixos. ‘I remember, I remember, | The fir trees 
dark and high;|I used to think their slender tops | Were close against the sky’ 
(T. Hood). 

? Attention may here be drawn to the various accounts of the Kallikantzaroi given by 
the modern Greeks. These are summarised as follows by J. C. Lawson Modern Greek 
Folklore and Ancient Greek Religion Cambridge 1910 p. 194: ‘The Callicantzari appear 
only during the dwéexanuepov or ‘‘ period of twelve days” between Christmas and 
Epiphany}. (Leo Allatius (De gwor. Graec. opinat. cap. ix.) makes the period a week 
only, ending on New Year’s Day.) The rest of the year they live in the lower world, and 
occupy themselves in trying to gnaw through or cut down the great tree (or in’ other 
accounts the one or more columns) on which the world rests. Each Christmas they have 
nearly completed their task, when the time comes for their appearance in the upper world, 
and during their twelve days’ absence, the supports of the world are made whole again.’ 
Details will be found in N. G. Polites Ilapadéces Athens 1904 i. 331 no. 590 from 
Bourboura in Kynouria (The Lykokatzaraioi come from below the earth. All the time 
they are hewing away with their axes at the tree which supports the earth (76 dévTpo mod 
Baorde: 7H vis). They chop and chop till a tiny piece no bigger than a thread remains 
uncut, and they say ‘Come, let us be off; it will fall of itself.” They return after the 
Baptism and find the tree entire, absolutely whole. And again they chop, and again they 
come, and so continually do they busy themselves), i. 347 no. 612 from Naupaktos (...the 
Pagan Ones begin hewing with their teeth and with axes the three columns which support 
the world (rots tpeis koAdvvais, rod Bacrav Tov Kdcpo), to hurl them down, that the world 
may collapse. Etc.), i. 352 no. 621 from Lasta in the deme Mylaon, Gortynia (The earth 
is supported below by one column, which has four other pillars (uid Koddvva, mod eee 
Téooepous ddNovs aTUNous [infra § 3 (a) iii (k)]). There the Kolikantzaroi are in bondage for 
ever and labour at cutting the column to make the earth fall. Etc.), i. 354 no. 622 from 
Demetsana in Gortynia (The Kallikantzaroi are naked, apart from beards and moustaches, 
and in size resemble a child of ten, some being a little taller, others a little shorter. They 
dwell in the Underworld, where theresare three wooden columns supporting the whole 
earth (éxet eivac rpets Ev\wvars Koddvyats Kal Kparodv bAnv Thy yq). The Kalikantzaraioi 
want to cut the columns and overthrow the world, and they are perpetually getting to work 
with their axes and chopping the:three columns. Etc.), i. 355 no. 623 from Gralista in 
the deme Ithome, Karditsa (The Karkantsaloi have their dwelling in Hades, and gnaw 
with their teeth the pillars which support the sky, that it may fall and crush the earth 
{ki pouxavody wi ra Sévria Tous Ta ora, am’ Bacrody Toby odpavd va phy Téoy Ki maken 
7 yn). They gnaw and gnaw and do their utmost to cut the pillars. Etc.). See further 
N. G. Polites Medérn émi rod Blov ray Newrépwy ‘EX\jvwy Athens 1871 i. 26 and 69, 
J. N. Svoronos in the Journ. Intern. a’ Arch. Num. 1912 xiv. 252 and 280. It will be 
observed that, whereas most of these versions make the tree (no. 590) or columns (nos. 612, 
621, 622) support the earth, one at least (no. 623) makes the pillars support the sky. 


Iupiter-Columns 57 


vehicle of the sky-god and even to be embellished with his form 
and features! 


(e) Iupiter-Columns. 


Far and wide over the territory once occupied by Germanic 
tribes* are remains of isolated columns, dating from the close of 
the second to the middle of the third century A.D., that is to say, 
from the period when Rhenic Germany witnessed a Romanised 
revival of its national cults*. These columns, usually termed /z- 
pitersdulen or Gigantensdulen*, consist of the following parts. The 
lowest member, exclusive of the base, is a quadrangular plinth 
known as the Viergétterstein®, which is adorned by reliefs of four 
deities—commonly Iuno, Mercurius, Hercules, Minerva (fig. 22)'— 


1 A. Olrik ‘Irminsul og gudest¢gtter’ in Maal og minne 1910 pp. I—g, summarised in 
the Zeitschrift des Vereins fiir Volkskunde 1910 xx. 348 (‘ Die Sdulen mit dem Gotternagel, 
die im Hause der altnordischen Hauptlinge neben dem Ehrensitze standen hatten, wie 
aus einem Vergleiche der altdeutschen Irminsaulen...und der noch im 18. Jahrhundert 
bei den Finnen verehrten ‘‘ Weltpfeiler” erhellt, die zweifache Bedeutung einer die ‘Welt 
tragenden Saule und eines rohgeschnitzten Gotterbildes’). On the high-seat pillars of 
the old Norsemen and on the world-pillars of the Lapps, with their sacred nails, see 27/ra 
§ 3 (a) vi (a), § 3 (c)i ()- 

* For detailed proof of this limitation see the admirable monograph of F. Hertlein 
Die Juppitergigantensdulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 51 ff. 

% A. Riese ‘Zur Geschichte des Gotterkultus im rheinischen Germanien’ in the West- 
deutsche Zettschrift 1898 xvii. 1 ff. says (p. 13): ‘Um die Zeit nach dem Tode des Marc 
Aurel geschah eine wunderbare Veranderung, die meines Wissens in diesem Sinne noch 
nicht erwahnt ist: der Romanisierung der Religion folgte eine neue Nationalisierung, und 
gallische und auch germanische Gétter erhalten Votivinschriften.’ He goes on to quote 
inscriptions ranging from 187 A.D. (Corp. zuscr. Lat. xiii no. 8185 = Dessau Jnscr. Lat. 
sel. no. 4743 deae Hariasae etc. found at Cologne) to 259—268 A.D. (Cohen Monn. emp. 
vom.” vi. 24 ff. no. 88f. HER+DEVSONIENS, nos. Q0—100 HERC-+DEVSONIENSI, nos. 
I15—118 HERCVLI DEVSONIENSI, 26. vi. 29 f. no. 129 f. HERCVLI MAGVSANO on coins of 
Postumus: for these deities see R. Peter in Roscher Lex. AZyth. i. 3017—3020 and Haug 
in Pauly—Wissowa eal- Enc. viii. 611). 

4 A bibliography of the ‘ Jupiter-columns’ is given sara i. 178 n. 

° Haug ‘Die Viergottersteine’ in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1891 x. g—62, 125—161, 
295—340, F. Hertlein Dee /uppitergigantensdulen Stuttgart 1910 pp. 94—164 (‘ Die 
Viergottersteine ’). 

® Of 83 plinths decorated with four deities 48 exhibit the series Iuno, Mercurius, 
Hercules, Minerva (42 from left to right, 6 from right to left), rg replace Mercurius by 
another deity (2 by Iupiter with a wheel, 2 by Mars with a wheel, 2 by Mars without a 
wheel, 7 by Apollo, 4 by Volcanus, 2 by Victoria (fig. 22, 34 Kreuznach no. 137 Haug)), 
2 replace Minerva (1 by Fortuna (fig. 22, 2@ Kreuznach no. 136 Haug), 1 by Mars), 
4 replace two deities (1 substituting Fortuna with a wheel and Apollo for Iuno and 
Mercurius, 1 Victoria and Mars for Mercurius and Minerva (fig. 22, 34 and 3d Kreuz- 
nach no. 137 Haug), 1 Apollo and Volcanus for Mercurius and Hercules, 1 Minerva and 
Mars for Hercules and Minerva), ro are quite irregular. See the summaries in Hertlein 
op. cit. pp. ITI, 127. 

Fig. 22, 1a—d (after E. Schmidt in the Jahré. a. Vereins v. Alterthumsfreund. im 
Rheinl, 1869 xlvii. g2 pl. 14, 3a, c, d, b) shows the reliefs of a sandstone block, 
o*go™ high x o°41™ broad and deep, found in 1858 A.D. built into the north-west angle of 


58 upiter-Columns 


or by an inscription and reliefs of three deities—mostly the same 
series with the omission of Iuno or Mercurius.. F. Hertlein has 





gone some way towards proving that these deities represent the 


the Roman fort (Heédenmauer) near Kreuznach= Haug ‘ Die Viergottersteine’ in the 
Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1891 x. 126 no. 135. 

1 Of 19 plinths showing an inscription and three deities, 5 have the series Mercurius, 
Hercules, Minerva (2 from left to right, 3 from right to left), 3 have Iuno, Hercules, 


: Tupiter-Columns 59 


Seasons, the quartet corresponding with the fourfold division of 
the Julian calendar, and the trio with the threefold division re- 
cognised by the Germani in the time of Tacitus'. He supposes 
that Iuno, who often carries a torch or torches (fig. 23)?, is the 
Romanised form of Frija, conceived as the light-bearing goddess 
of spring®; that Mercurius is Wodan, here for some reason obscure 


Minerva (from right to left), r has Iuno, Mercurius, Minerva (from left to right) ; 1 has 
Apollo, Hercules, Minerva (from left to right), 1 has Victoria, Hercules, Minerva (from 
left to right); 1 has Iuno, Hercules, Victoria (from right to left), 1 has Iuno, Apollo, 
Victoria (from left to right), 1 has Apollo, Hercules, Diana (from left to right), 1 has 
Mars, Volcanus, Victoria (from right to left), 1 has Fortuna, Volcanus, Victoria (from left 
to right), 1 has Mars, Fortuna, Victoria (from left to right), 1 has Fortuna, Luna, Sol 
(from left to right), 1 has Mars, Victoria, Mercurius (from left to right). Hertlein of. c7¢. 
p. £34f. points out that the first three series are merely excerpts from the full quartet 
Iuno, Mercurius, Hercules, Minerva; that the fourth and fifth series are excerpts from 
the same quartet with one name varied ; and that the remaining groups are less nearly 
related to the original set. 

1 Tac. Germ. 26 hiems et ver et aestas intellectum ac vocabula habent, autumni 
perinde nomen ac bona ignorantur. On this passage see the sensible and cogent remarks 
of Hertlein of. czt. p. 137 ff. 

® Fig. 23 is from a block probably found at Orolaunum (47/ov), a town of the Treveri 
= Haug ‘ Die Viergottersteine’ in the Westdeutsche 
Zeitschrift 1891 x. 146 no. 181 d@ pl. 4, Espérandieu 
Bas-reliefs de la Gaule Rom. v. 355 f. no. 4238. 

* Hertlein of. czt. p. 143 ff. argués that the 
torches of Iuno (2d. p. 94 ff.) are presumably a 
Germanic attribute of the ‘ Himmelsgottin, die im 
Friihjahr das helle Himmelslicht wieder herauf- 
fiihrt,’ recalling the Aunkensonntag, a fire-festival 
of the German peasantry celebrated on the First 
Sunday in Lent (W. Mannhardt Wadd- und Feld- 
kulte® Berlin 1904 i. 500 ff., Frazer Golden Bough? : 
Balder the Beautiful i. 106 ff.). He thinks too that 
the fluttering robe sometimes worn by the goddess 
(Hertlein of. cit. pp. 95, 97) betokens horizontal 
flight such as would suit the partner of the ad- 
vancing Germanic Iupiter. Lastly, he remarks 
that the title Regzza frequently attached to the 
Iuno of the Viergittersteine (ib. p. 81 f.) means 
much the same as the Norse /vey7a, the ‘ Mistress,’ 
who ‘ist hauptsachlich die Gottin der im Friihjahr 
wiedergeborenen Sonne und Natur, die Géttin des 
lichten Friihlings, der Zeit neuen Sprossens und 
der Liebe.’ 

It should, however, be noted, on the one hand 
that the title Regzna is not found in the district of 
the Treveri (26. p. 81), on the other hand that the 
torch-bearing goddess is particularly frequent in 
that region (Haug in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 
1891 x. 300f.). This fact makes it at least possible 
that in the torch-bearer we should recognise, not 
Iuno Regina, but Iuno Leacina, whose worship was widely spread in western Europe 


zm 
fg 


LEA 


‘\s 





60 Iupiter-Columns 


(Apul. med. 6. 4 te iam nuptam Tonantis et reginam deorum...quam cunctus oriens 
Zygiam veneratur et omnis occidens Lucinam appellat). It is probably Iuno Zwcina, 
who carries an infant and a torch on a Roman tomb-stone now in the Vatican (H. Brunn 
in the Ann. d. Inst. 1848 xx. 430 ff. pl. N, L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 
1859 p. 135, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Hera p. 153 Atlas pl. 10, 24=my fig. 24, 





Fig. 24. 


W. H. Roscher Zao und Hera (Studien zur vergleichende Mythologie der Griechen und 
Romer ii) Leipzig 1875 p. 23f. and in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 582, 602, J. Vogel 26. ii. 
611, Amelung Scalpt. Vatic. i. 809 f. no. 731 A pl. 86) : opposite to her stands the deceased 
with a table as altar and a pig as victim; in front is the dedication (Corf. inser. Lat. vi 
no. 24819) between two burning torches linked by a fillet. Iuno Lucia certainly appears as 
a reverse type on Roman imperial coins, sometimes erect, either holding a fafera and a 
sceptre (Cohen Zon. emp. rom.” iii. 147 Faustina Iunior nos. 131 f. rev. IVNONI LVCINAE 
Iuno standing to left with fazera and sceptre—gold, no. 133 rev. IVNONI LVCINAE S+C-» 
Iuno, veiled, standing to left with fatera and sceptre—large bronze; 7d. 26.” iii. 384 
Crispina no. 24 rev. IVNO LVCINA S+C- Iuno standing to left with Aatera and sceptre, 
peacock at feet—middle bronze ; zd. 26.2 v. 146 Otacilia no. 23 rev. IVNO L.VCINA I[uno, 
clad in goat-skin (?), standing to right with Aatera and sceptre—silver), or raising one 
hand and supporting an infant with the other (7d. 2b.? iii. 218 Lucilla no. 38 rev. IVNONI 
LVCINAE Iuno, veiled, standing to left, raising right hand and holding a swaddled infant 
—silver, no. 39 rev. IVNONI LVCINAE S+C+ the same type—large bronze and middle 
bronze), or holding one child and flanked by two others (2d. zé.? iii. 147 Faustina Iunior 
nos. 134f. rev. IVNONI LVCINAE Iuno standing to left between two children with a third 
in her arms—gold, no. 136 rev. IVNONI LVCINAE S+C+ Iuno standing to left between two 
girls with a third on her left arm—large bronze, no. 137 rev. the same legend and type— 
middle bronze) ; sometimes seated, either flanked by two children with a third on her 
knee (2d. 2d,” ili. 147 Faustina Iunior no. 138 rev. Iuno seated to right between two 


Iupiter-Columns 61 


children with a third on her knee—middle bronze, broken), or holding in one hand 
a swaddled infant, in the other a lily or possibly an iris (2d. 24.? iii. 218 Lucilla no. 36 
rev. IVNONI LVCINAE Iuno seated to left holding a flower and a swaddled infant—-silver, 
no. 37 IVNONI LVCINAE S+C- the same type—large bronze; zd. 74.7 iv. 113 Iulia Domna 
nos. 93 f. rev. IVNONI LVCINAE S+C-+ [uno seated to left holding a flower and a swaddled 
infant—large bronze, no. 95 rev. the same legend and type—middle bronze). These 
coins date from approximately the same period as the /zppzter- 
sdulen (supra p. 57); and the lily held by Iuno in the last- 
mentioned type (fig. 25 is from a large bronze of Iulia Domna, 
after Overbeck Gr. Kanstmyth. Hera p. 154 f. Miinztaf. 3, 13, 
who notes that the type recurs on coins of Iulia Mamaea, 
[Cornelia Supera,] and Salonina inscribed IVNO AVGYSTAE, 
[IVNONI AVG,] and IVNO AVG respectively—see Cohen Jon. 
emp. rom.” iv. 493 nos. 32—34, [v. 296 no. 3,] v. 502 no. 55) 
recalls the myth of the Milky Way (supra i. 624, ii. 49 n. 1). 
Further, Iuno Zzczza might well be regarded as the goddess 
of spring, for her chief festival at Rome was on March 1, 
when spring began (Ov. fast. 3. 235 ff.: see W. H. Roscher Leno und Hera (Studien zur 
vergleichende Mythologie der Griechen und Romer 11) Leipzig 1875 p. 22 n. 25 and in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 584, 603, W. Warde Fowler Zhe Roman Festivals London 1899 
p: 38, Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rim.” p. 184f.). Finally, luno Luczéva was a ‘light’-goddess 
(Mart. Cap. 149 sive te Lucinam quod lucem nascentibus tribuas ac Lucetiam convenit 
nuncupare) and as such would be fittingly brought into connexion with the Germanic 
Iupiter: cp. the collocation in Corf. zmscr. Lat. vi no. 357=Dessau Luscr. Lat. sel. 
no. 3101 (a bronze plate of Roman origin, part of which is extant at Bologna, the 
remainder being known from an earlier transcript) [Iunon]e Loucinai | [Diovis c]astud 
facitud, L. Savignoni and R. Mengarelli in the Wot. Scavi 1903 p. 255 ff.=C. Hiilsen in 
the Rim. Mitth. 1903 xviil. 338 f. (a bronze plate found at Norba in Latium and now in 
the Museo delle Terme at Rome) P. Rutilius M. f. | Iunonei Loucina | dedit meretod | 
Diovos castud. The second of these inscriptions proves that in the first we should not 
translate ‘To Iuno Luczna, wife of Iupiter’ (so Th. Mommsen in the Corp. inscr. Lat. 
vi no. 357 and H. Dessau Joc. cit.), nor even ‘property of Iupiter’? (so A. von Domas- 
zewski Abhandlungen zur romischen Religion Leipzig and Berlin 1909 p. 108), but rather 
join Dzovis with castud (Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rom.” p. 181 n. 3). Still, both inscriptions 
warrant us in supposing that Iuno Zzczza might reasonably appear in the entourage of 
lupiter. 

One detail remains to be cleared up. The. object held by the Iuno of fig. 23 in her 
right hand has been variously explained. Haug in the Westdeutsche Zettschrift 1891 
x. 146, 302 is content to cite the opinion of A. de Wiltheim Zucz/éburgensia Romana 
ed. A. Neyen Luxemburg 1842 p. 192 that we have here Iuno Pronuda (G. F. Prat in 
his Histoire d’Arlon Arlon 1873 says luno Cizxia) with her girdle: on these forms of 
the marriage-Iuno see W. H. Roscher Juno und Hera (Studien zur vergleichende 
Mythologie der Griechen und Romer 11) Leipzig 1875 p. 67 and in Roscher Lex. AZyth. 
ii. 589, E. Aust in Pauly—Wissowa Xeal-Z£nc. iii. 2563, Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rim.” p. 186 
with n. 1 and in his Gesammelte Abhandlungen zur rimischen Religions- und Stadt- 
geschichte Miinchen 1904 p. 320. If the attribute in question were anything of the sort, 
I should prefer to regard it as the necklace of Frija (J. Grimm Zeatonic Mythology trans. 
J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 306 ff., K. Miillenhoff ‘ Frija und der Halsbandmythus’ 
in the Zeztschrift fiir deutsches Alterthum 1886 xxx. 217—260, R. M. Meyer A/z- 
germanische Religtonsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 p. 215). But F. Hertlein Die /uppiter- 
gigantensiulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 97 has made out a good case for viewing it as merely 
another variety of torch, and 2d. p. 144 n. 2 suggests that the goddess is engaged in 
a ritual Hackelschwingen comparable with that of the modern /unkensonntag or jour des 
brandons (cp. supra i. 286, 648, 650 with n. 4). Espérandieu Bas-reliefs de la Gaule Rom. 
v. 355 f. no. 4238 ‘ peut-étre deux serpents.’ 





62 Jupiter-Columns 


to us figuring as the god of summer’; that the bearded Hercules 


1 * Wodanaz (Old Saxon Wodan, Old High German wwotan), * Wodenaz (Old English 
Woden, Old Norse Odinz), who gradually superseded the old sky-god Ziu (K. Miillenhoff 
Deutsche Altertumskunde Berlin 1900 iv. 213), was himself also in all probability a sky- 
god, very possibly a by-form of Ziu (E. Mogk in the Gruzdriss der germanischen Philo- 
Jogie® Herausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1900 ili. 332f.). He looks down on the 
earth at daybreak through a window in the eastern sky (J. Grimm 7Zeutontce Mythology 
trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 134f. cites Paulus Diaconus 2st. Langobard. 1. 8 
(L. Bethmann—G. Waitz Monuwmenta Germaniae historica Scriptores rerum Langobardi- 
carum et Italicarum saec. vi—ix Hannoverae 1878 p. 52) Refert hoc loco antiquitas 
ridiculam fabulam: quod accedentes Wandali ad Godan victoriam de Winnilis postula- 
verint, illeque responderit, se illis victoriam daturum quos primum oriente sole conspexisset. 
Tune accessisse Gambara ad Fream, uxorem Godan, et Winnilis victoriam postulasse, 
Freaque consilium dedisse, ut Winnilorum mulieres solutos crines erga faciem ad barbae 
similitudinem conponerent maneque primo cum viris adessent seseque Godan videndas 
pariter e regione, qua ille per fenestram orientem versus erat solitus aspicere, conlocarent. 
Atque ita factum fuisse. Quas cum Godan oriente sole conspiceret, dixisse: ‘Qui sunt 
isti longibarbi?’ Tunc Frea subiunxisse, ut quibus nomen tribuerat victoriam condonaret. 
Sicque Winnilis Godan victoriam concessisse). He has a throne named Hlidhskjalf, from 
which he can survey the whole world and hear all that goes on among men (J. Grimm 
Teutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 135 f., E. H. Meyer Ger- 
manische Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp. 190, 234, 251, W. Golther Handbuch der german- 
aschen Mythologze Leipzig 1895 pp. 324, 518, P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye 7he Religion 
of the Teutons Boston and London 1902 pp. 233, 286, 346, E. Mogk in the Grundriss 
der germanischen Philologie» Herausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1900 iii. 321, 345, 
370, cp. J. Bolte—G. Polivka Anmerkungen zu den Kinder- u. Hausmirchen der Briider 
Grimm Leipzig 1913 1. 345). Further, it is at least possible that the one eye ascribed to 
him stands for the sun (F. Magnusen Zdda rhythmica Hauniae 1828 iii. 540 n.****, 
E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp. 93 f., 231 f., 245, P. D. Chantepie 
de la Saussaye The Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 1902 p. 233, R. M. Meyer 
Aligermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 pp. 229—232, supra i. 321 N. 3, cp. i. 
320 f., 323, 462); and some have given a like explanation of his gold ring Draupnir, the 
‘Dripper,’ from which every ninth night dripped eight other rings of equal weight 
(W. Golther Handbuch der germanischen Mythologie Leipzig 1895 p. 312, K. Miillenhoff 
Deutsche Altertumskunde Berlin 1g00 iv. 642f., P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye The 
Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 1902 p. 233), and of the gold helmet that he 
wore in his contest with the Fenris-wolf (E. Mogk in the Grandriss der germanischen 
Philologie” Herausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1900 iii. 345, cp. E. H. Meyer 
Germanische Mythologie Berlin 189 p. 231). It is not, however, likely that such solar 
attributes would have led to Wodan being regarded as the god of summer. I would rather 
explain this aspect of his complex character by the fact that among the Scandinavians the 
great sacrifice, which year by year took place at the beginning of summer, was probably 
associated with him (H. M. Chadwick Zhe Cult of Othin London 1899 p. 5 f.). 

Wodan still survives in popular imagination as leader of the Wild Hunt (ade wilde 
Jagd) or the Furious Host (das weitende Heer). On windy nights in spring, or autumn, 
or winter he sweeps across the sky with a howling company at his heels—the souls of the 
dead (E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 235 ff., P. D. Chantepie de 
la Saussaye Zhe KReligion of the Teutons Boston and London 1902 pp. 216f., 225 f., 
E. Mogk in the Grundriss der germanischen Philologie® Herausgegeben von H. Paul 
Strassburg 1900 ili. 333 ff., R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig IgIo 
p- 81f., K. Helm Aligermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 i. 261 ff.). In some 
districts he heads the rout, not on foot or on horseback, but driving a chariot or coach 
(E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 239). And, when we observe that 
the Milky Way is believed to be the path traversed by the Furious Host and is called in 


Iupiter-Columns 63 


with his club is Donar as the stormy god of autumn!; and that 


consequence the Heerstrasse, Helweg, Wagenpat, etc. (7d. 1b. p. 241, cp. p. 238), it 
becomes probable that Platon’s myth of the soul-procession following the chariot of Zeus 
along the Milky Way (sara p. 43 f.) presupposes a popular belief akin to that of the 
Furious Host. If so, the earliest allusion to das wiitende Heer is not after all the feralis 
exercitus of Tac. Germ. 43, but the orpariad OeGy re kal Saudywy of Plat. Phaedr. 246K. 
See further K. Dilthey ‘Die Artemis des Apelles und die wilde Jagd’ in the Rhein. Mus. 
1870 xxv. 321 ff., P. Sartori ‘Das wilde Heer’ in the Zeitschrift des Vereins fiir Volks- 
kunde 1894 iv. 289—292, L. Weniger ‘ Feralis exercitus’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1906 ix. 
201—247 (‘Das schwarze Heer der Harier’), rg07 x. 61—81 and 229—256 (‘ Das weisse 
Heer der Phoker’) with L. R. Farnell in Zhe Year's Work in Class. Stud. 1907 p. 63. 

On the common equation of Wodan with Mercurius see J. Grimm 7ezfonic Mythology 
trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 119 ff., E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie 
Berlin 1891 p. 229 f., W. Golther Handbuch der germanzschen Mythologie Leipzig 1895 
p- 295 n. 2, K. Miillenhoff Deztsche Altertumskunde Berlin 1900 iv. 212 f., P. D. Chantepie 
de la Saussaye The Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 1902 pp. 103, 221f., 
E. Mogk in the Grundriss der germanischen Philologie? Herausgegeben von H. Paul 
Strassburg 1900 iii. 331, R. M. Meyer A/tgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 
p-. 226, K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 i. 259, 356 ff. 

1 The Germanic god * Jwnaraz bore a name derived from the Indo-Europaean root 
*(s)¢en-, ‘to growl, to roar’ (Walde Lat. etym. Worterb. p. 630 f. s.v. ‘tono’), which 
occurs in Norse as érr (for * Aonraz), on the larger fibula from Nordendorf in Bavaria 
as ponar (R. Henning Die deutschen Runendenkmaler Strassburg 1889 p. 102, G. Stephens 
Lhe Old-Northern Runic Monuments of Scandinavia and England ed. S.O. M. Sdderberg 
London rgor iv. 9), in a Saxon baptismal vow as 7huner (K. Miillenhoff—W. Scherer 
Denkmaler deutscher Poesie und Prosa aus dem viti—xii Jahrhundert® Berlin 1892 i: 198, 
ii. 316 ff. no. LI), in Old English as 7hzmor (cp. J. M. Kemble Zhe Saxons in Englana? 
London 1876 i. 346 ff.), and in Germanic designations for the fifth day of the week (Old 
High German Dovarestac, Old Frisian 7hunresdey, Anglo-Saxon Thunresdeg, Norse 
pérsdagr). These names, as J. Grimm long ago pointed out (J. Grimm ‘ Uber die Namen 
des Donners’ in his A7veinere Schriften Berlin 1865 ii. 410 ff. and in his Veztonzc 
Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 166), stand in obvious relation to the 
Germanic words for ‘thunder’ (Old High German doxar, Middle High German doner, 
Anglo-Saxon /unor). Since, however, the name of a natural phenomenon raised to the 
rank of a personal deity tends to drop out of common parlance (H. Usener Gétternamen 
Bonn 1896 p. 316f.), it has been conjectured that the living words Donner, thunder, etc. 
have come from the name of the god, not vice versa (K. Helm Altgermanische Religions- 
geschichte Heidelberg 1913 i. 275 n. 86). In any case Donar was essentially a thunder-god. 
Not impossibly he, like Wodan (supra p. 62 n. 1), was a by-form differentiated from 
the early Germanic sky-god Ziu (so E. Mogk in the Grundriss der germanischen Philologie” 
Herausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1900 iii. 354). 

In common with many another storm-god Donar was also a fertilising power (E. Mogk 
in Hoops Reallex. i. 481, K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 
i. 278f.): cp. Thor, who fructifies the bride (E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie 
Berlin 1891 p. 212 f., W. Golther Handbuch der germanischen Mythologie Leipzig 1895 
p- 251f.), brings to life again his team of goats that have been cooked in a cauldron 
(W. Golther 26. p. 276), etc. Such a divinity, storm-god and fertility-god in one, might 
well serve as the Germanic representative of autumn. 

As regards the zxterpretatio Romana, Donar was at first perhaps equated with Volcanus 
(Caes. de bell. Gall. 6. 21, cp. H. Rueckert Culturgeschichte des deutschen Volkes in der 
Zett des Uebergangs aus dem Heidenthum in das Christenthum Leipzig 1853 1. 126), then 
with Hercules (Tac. Germ. 3, 9, 34(?), az. 2. 12, cp. E. H. Meyer Germanische 
Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp. 202, 211, P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye Zhe Religion of the 
Teutons Boston and London 1902 pp. 103 ff., 235, 239 n. 3, E. Mogk in the Grundriss 


64 Iupiter-Columns 


der germanischen Philologie? Herausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 19goo iil. 355 and 
in Hoops Reallex. i. 480, R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 
p. 282, K. Helm Aligermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 i. 274 ff., 363 ff.), 
and finally from s. vi onwards with Iupiter (J. Grimm Teutonic Mythology trans. 
J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 189 ff., 1888 iv. 1345f, E. H. Meyer Germantsche 
Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp. 20, 48, 51, 202, 205 f., 217, P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye 
The Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 1902 p. 235, E. Mogk in the Grusdriss 
der germanischen Philologie? Herausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1900 iii. 354 f. and 
in Hoops Reallex. i. 480, R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 
p. 282, K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 i. 275, cp. 278). 
The Germani identified their Donar with Hercules primarily because of his strength. 
Thus, when going into battle, they sang of Hercules as ‘primum...omnium virorum 
fortium ’ (Tac. Germ. 3). The Batavi in- particular worshipped Hercules MWagusanus 
(Corp. inscr. Lat. vi no. 31162=Dessau “nscr. Lat. sel, no. 2188 cp. no. 4628 n. 1 
(Rome, dedicated by cives Batavi sive Thraces adlecti ex provincia Germania inferior? on 
Sept. 29, 219 A.D.) Herculi Magusano | etc.; Corp. zwscr. Lat. xiii no, 8705= Dessau 
Znscr. Lat. sel. no. 4629 (Betuwe in Holland) Herculi Ma|gusano et | Haevae etc. ; Corf. 
inscr. Lat. xiii no. 8771 (Rummel, North Brabant, dedicated by the semmus magistratus 
cevitatis Batavorum) Magusa|no Hercul[i] | etce.; Corp. zzscr. Lat. xiii no. 8777 (West- 
kapelle in the island of Walcheren, Zeeland) Herculi | Magusano | etc. ; Cor. zzscr. Lat. 
xiii no. 8010 (Bonn) Herculi | Magusano | etc.; Corp. zscr. Lat. xii no. 8492 = Dessau 
Inscr. Lat. sel. no. 4630 (near Deutz)—--— | [Herc ]uli Magusan[o]|[? Matron]is Abirenibu[s] | 
[Sil]vano et Genio [loc.] | [Dia]ne Mahal[inis] | [Vic]torie Mercu[rio] | [cete]risque dis 
dea[bus] | [om]nibus etc.; Corp. zmscr. Lat. xiii no. 8610 (Xanten) Herculi Mag[usano] | 
etc.; Corp. aescr. Lat. vii no. 1ogo= Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 4628 (Mumerills, near 
Falkirk, on the Antonine Wall, dedicated by a duplicarius alae Tungrorum) Herculi | 
Magusan|[o] etc. ; but hardly Corf. zzscr. Lat. xiii no. 4141 (near Treves) M[a](c)usa etc. 
See further supra p. 57 n. 3, F. Kauffmann ‘Hercules Magusanus’ in H. Paul— 
W. Braune Beitrage zur Geschichte der deutschen Sprache und Literatur Halle a/S 1891 
XV. 553—562, R. Peter in Roscher Lex. Myth. 1. 3018—3020, M. Schonfeld Worterbuch 
der altgermanischen Personen- und Volkernamen Heidelberg 1gtt p. 158, K. Helm 
Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 1. 363—365), whose cult-title, de- 
noting ‘the Strong,’ survived in the mediaeval AZahusenhem (now Muyswinkel) near 
Durstede (R. Peter in Roscher Lex. AZyth. i. 3019 f., Haug in Pauly—Wissowa eal- 
Enc. vill. 611) and is comparable with the name of Thor’s son Magni (E. Mogk in the 
Grundriss der germanischen Philologie* Herausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1900 iii. 
355, P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye 7he Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 
1902 p. 239 with n. 3, K. Helm Allgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 
i. 364 f.). Hercules on the Vzergottersteine is regularly bearded (F. Hertlein Dee _Juppiter- 
gigantensaulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 146), and an inscription found at Brohl in 1840 A.D. 
records the cult of Hercules Barbatus (OrellimHenzen J/nscr. Lat. sed. no. 5726= Dessau 
Inscr. Lat. sel. no. 3460 Herculi | barbato | etc.): Thor too in the best extant representa- 
tion of him, a relief on a granite baptismal basin from the old church at Ottrava in Wester 
Gothland, Sweden (G. Stephens Thaunor the Thunderer, carved on a Scandinavian Sont 
of about the year rooo London 1878 p. 24 f. with fig. on p. r5=my fig. 26), has a pointed 
beard. Again, Hercules, like Donar, was armed with a primitive weapon: the club of 
the former was a rough equivalent for the hammer of the latter. Hence these attributes 
were interchangeable. On the one hand, Saxo Grammaticus hzst. Dan. 3 p. 73, 29 ff. 
Holder describes Thor as armed with a club (J. Grimm Teutonic Mythology trans. 
J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 180, E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 
p. 204, E. Mogk in the Grundriss der germanischen Philologie? Herausgegeben von 
H. Paul Strassburg 1900 iii. 357, R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 
1910 p. 283). On the other hand, we hear of a Hercules Waliator (Corp. inser. Lat. xiii 
no. 6619= Dessau Zuscr. Lat. sel. no. 4627 (Obernburg in Bavaria) Herculi | Maliator(i)), 
whose title presumably denotes ‘the Hammer-god’ (so K. Zangemeister in the MVewe 


Iupiter-Columns 65 


Minerva is Holda, the patroness of spinning, as a winter-goddess’. 





Fig. 26. 


Fleidelberger Jahrbticher 1895 v. 55, followed by Dessau /oc. cz¢., Boehm in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. vill. 597, Haug 2d. vill. 610, E. Mogk in Hoops eadlex. i. 481, though 
C. Christ in the Jahrb. d. Vereins v. Alterthumsfreund.im Rheinl. 1878 \xii. 49, followed 
by K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 1. 365, would read 
Herculi | maliator(es) cp. Corp. inscr. Lat. vi nos. 43 f.= Dessau Zrscr. Lat. sel. no. 1635 
(Rome, dated Jan. 28, 119 A.D.) Herculi Aug. sacr. | Felix Aug. 1. optio et | exactor auri 
arg. aeris, | item signat. suppostores malliatores: | etc.). 

1 The Germanic goddess A/uOena or Hludana, known to us from inscriptions (Corp. 
inscr. Lat. xiii no. 7944= Dessau /uscr. Lat. sel. no. 4745 (near Iversheim) in h(onorem) 
{d(omus) d(ivinae)] | Hlu@enae sa[crum]| pro salute im[p. Caes. M. Aur.] | [S]everi 
Alexa{ndri pii] | fel(icis) invicti [Aug. et Iul.] | Mamae(a)e maf[tris Aug. n(ostri)] | 
vexillat(io) leg(ionis) [i M(inerviae) Sev(erianae) Alex(andrianae)] | [p(oni ?)] fac(i)ent(ium ?) 
in c[ustodia?], Corp. zuscr. Lat. xiii no. 8641 =Orelli Zzscr. Lat. sed. no. 2014 (Birten near 
Xanten) deae | Hludanae | sacrum | C. Tiberius | Verus, Corp. czxscr. Lat. xiii no. 8661 
(the Monterberg near Calcar) deae Hlu|enae cen|--, Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 872 
(Holtedoorn near Nijmwegen) [H]lud(anae) sac(rum) j [---Jammif[-] | [--Jeund[--]|[-Ji 
leg(ionis) xxx[-] | v.s.1.[m.] | [L]aterano [cos?], Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 8830= Dessau 
Inscr. Lat. sel. no. 1461 (Beetgum near Leeuwarden in Friesland) deae Hludanae | con- 
ductores | piscatus, mancipe | Q. Valerio Secu|ndo, v.s.1.m.), of which one—that from 





Ga Fis 5 


66. Iupiter-Columns 


Holtedoorn—is probably dated 197 A.D. and another—that from Iversheim—falls between 
222 and 235 A.D., has been plausibly identified with the Old Norse Hiédyn, the mother 
of Thor (J. Grimm Zeztonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 256 f., 266 
n. 2, F. Kauffmann ‘ Dea HluSana’ in H. Paul—W. Braune Seztrage zur Geschichte der 
deutschen Sprache und Literatur Halle a/S 1894 xviii. 134—157, E. Mogk in the Grundriss 
der germanischen Philologie? Werausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1900 iii. 358 f., 370, 
R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 p. 307. The connexion is 
denied by E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 203, P. D. Chantepie de 
la Saussaye Zhe Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 1go2 p. 105, and others. 
M. Schonfeld Worterbuch der altgermanischen Personen- und Volkernamen Heidelberg 
1gt1 p. 140f. concludes: ‘Fraglich is die von Kauffmann und Mogk angenommene 
Identitat mit an. Aiédyn-(Hlidana mit lu aus / gegeniiber A/édyn mit der Dehnstufe 
Jo?).” But K. Helm Adigermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 1. 381 sums up: 
*Immer noch ist trotz allen dagegen gedusserten Bedenken ihre Zusammengehorigkeit 
mit der nordischen //édyn am wahrscheinlichsten, wodurch allerdings nicht viel gewonnen 
ist, da Hlddyn selbst sehr wenig klar ist’). Further, both A/ena or Hiudana and 
Hlédyn have been related (J. Grimm Zeztonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass. London 
1882 i. 266 n. 2, K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 1. 381—383. 
E contra E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 203, P. D. Chantepie de 
la Saussaye The Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 1902 p. 105) to the Holden, 
z.e. the ‘Good Folk,’ the sprites, and their representative Frau Holda (Hulda, Holle, 
Hulle, Holl), a goddess who—like Wodan (sera p. 62 n. 1)—belongs to the Furious 
Host (J. Grimm 7eutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 1. 265 ff., 1883 
ii. 456, 487, 596, 883, 1883 iii. 933 ff., 946 ff., 1055, 1888 iv. 1367, a/zd., E. H. Meyer 
Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp. 21, 74, 242 ff., 247f., 266, 272 ff., 282 ff., a/zd., 
E. Mogk in the Grundriss der germantschen Philologies Herausgegeben von H. Paul 
Strassburg 1900 iii. 278 ff, P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye Zhe Religion of the Teutons 
Boston and London rgo2 p. 273f., R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte 
Leipzig 1910 p. 114 f., K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 i. 
381—383). In Middle Dutch Frau Holda is called Verelde (for Ver Elde= Frau Hilde 
or Frau Hulde) and gives her name to the Milky Way (Vroneldenstraet= Frauen Hilde 
or Hulde Strasse: see J. Grimm Teutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 
1. 285). 

In the nursery-tales and popular superstitions of Germany Frau Holda plays a con- 
siderable part. When it snows, she is making her bed and the feathers fly—a notion as 
old as Hat. 4. 7, 4. 31 (J. Grimm of. cit. i. 262 f.), cp. J. C. F. Bahr ad loc. Such a 
goddess might well be selected to typify the winter. 

Holda would be Romanised as Minerva because both alike patronised spinning. On 
the one hand, ‘ /o//a is set before us as a spinning-wife ; the cultivation of flax is assigned 
to her. [Was H/udana worshipped by the Frisian conductores piscatus as helping them to 
make their fishing-nets? A. B.C.] Industrious maids she presents with sfindles, and 
spins their reels full for them over night; a slothful spinner’s distaff she se¢s on fire, or 
sotls it.” Etc. (J. Grimm of. cit. i. 269 f.) On the other hand, Minerva, who at Rome 
in republican times had figured mainly as a mistress of arts and crafts, under the empire 
became more and more specialised into a goddess of spinning and weaving (Tertull. ae 
pallio 3 p. 929 Oehler, Arnob. adv. nat. 3. 21, 5. 45, Serv. 7 Verg. Aen. 5. 284, 7. 805— 
cited by G. Wissowa in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 2988 and G. Fougéres in Daremberg— 
Saglio Dict. Ant. iii. 1929) presumably through assimilation to Athena (see especially 
Ov. fast. 3. 815 ff.), the Greek patroness of distaff and loom (Gruppe Gr. AGth. Rel. 
Pyl2in Ms 13, Cpsco.\p. 1lo4 Ney, ped ou me a))e 

At this point it is of interest to remember that in the Platonic myth the ‘ straight light 
like a pillar’ becomes, as we read on, the ‘spindle of Ananke’ (supra p. 44 f.). ‘Had 
Platon a Germanic source, not only for the former, but also for the latter? In China too 
the Milky Way is associated with a Weaving Damsel, whose shuttle is the star a Lyrae 


(infra § 3 (a) vi(A)). 


Iupiter-Columns 67 


This hypothesis, though not definitely established’, is @ priorz 
probable enough, and may be at least provisionally accepted. 
Among the deviations from the normal type of Vzergo¢terstein 
perhaps the most interesting are those furnished by a group of 
plinths found mainly in the north-western portion of the Gallo- 
Germanic area. Here the encroachment of Wodan (Mercurius) 
upon Ziu (lupiter) has led to the duplication or differentiation of 
Frija, who appears not only as Ziu’s consort (Iuno) but also as 
Wodan’s consort (Venus), and in this latter capacity is associated 
with Wodan or even supersedes him in the series. Thus we get: 


Vormal Type®. MESSANCY*. LrES FONTAINES®. MONT HEILPERT®. BRUMATH%. 


1 lIuno. Tuno. Tuno. Iuno. Iuno. 
2 Mercurius. Venus + Mer- Venus. © Venus. Venus. 
curius. 
3 Hercules. Apollo. Diana (?) + Mer- Hercules. Hercules. 
curius. 
4 Minerva. Minerva. =a a 





The plinth discovered at Les Fontaines, between Maubeuge and 
Avesnes, in 1725 A.D. and now preserved at Brussels (fig. 27)® 
merits closer inspection. Of the first side only the left half (fig. 27 a) 
is extant; but this suffices to show a draped female standing 
beneath a canopy with a veil over her head and shoulder, a pea- 
cock perched on her arm, and a fatera held in her right hand 
above a small flaming altar or turibulum*. Clearly she is Iuno, 
The second side (fig. 27 0) has an undraped female standing beneath 
a similar canopy: her hair is knotted in a chzguon; her raised right 
hand and lowered left draw back a fringed mantle; her feet are 


1 Haug in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Znc. viii. 611. The foregoing notes should do some- 
thing to dispel Haug’s misgivings. 

2 On this group see especially F. Hertlein Dre Luppitergigantensdulen Stuttgart 1910 
p- 153: 

3 Supra p. 377'. 

4 Haug ‘Die Viergottersteine’ in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1891 x. 147 no. 183, 
Hertlein of. cit. pp. 114, 117, 153 f., Espérandieu Bas-relzefs de la Gaule Rom. v. 290f. 
no. 4130. 

5 Haug of. cit. 1891 x. 135 no. 157, Hertlein of. czt. pp. 100, 117, 153, Espérandieu 
Bas-reliefs de la Gaule Rom. v. 190 ff. no. 3984. 

6 Haug of. cit. 1891 x. 142 f. no. 172, Hertlein of. cet. pp. 95, 98 f., 112 f., 1£7. 

7 Haug of. cz¢t. 1891 x. 37 f. no. 67, Hertlein of. czt. pp. 103, 105, 153. 

8 F. Cumont Catalogue des sculptures & inscriptions antiques (monuments lapidaires) 
des Musées Royaux du Cinquantenaire” Bruxelles 1913 p. 210 ff. no. 173: height o°98™, 
breadth 0°53™, depth 0°28™. 

® F. Cumont Joc. cé¢. says: ‘Elle abaisse la main, vers une urne allongée ou une 
aiguiere (fraefericulum), dans laquelle elle parait verser le contenu d’une patere.’ But 
analogous representations of Iuno on other Viergottersteine make it certain that Haug 
op. cit. 1891 x. 135 rightly recognised ‘ein brennendes Altarchen.’ 


5—2 


68 Iupiter-Columns 


shod in sandals, and one of them rests upon a footstool’, She is 





TTT My 


me 


“oy 


Ci TMi 





RU COREA (RG 
(2) (<) 
Fig. 27. 


Venus; and the canopy common to her with Iuno suggests that 
she is but another form of the same celestial goddess*—very 


1 Perhaps a simplification of the tortoise, on which her foot rests in a Viergotterstein- 
relief from Lamerey (Haug of. cz¢. 1891 x. 158 cp. 315). Pheidias made a chryselephantine 
Aphrodite Ovpavia at Elis with one foot set on a tortoise (Paus. 6. 25. 1, Plout. ae Js. e¢ 
Os. 76, coniug. praecept. 32: see further Frazer Pausanzas iv. 105, Farnell Cults of Gh. 
States ii. 681 ff., Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 150, 197 n. 2, 1333 N. II, 1349 n. 3f., 
O. Keller Die antike 7ierwelt Leipzig 1913 ii. 250, A. Frickenhaus in the Jah7b. d. hats. 
deutsch. arch. Inst. 1913 xxviii. 363 ff. fig. 7 f.). 

2 Venus Cae/estis, who in name at least was the Roman counterpart of Aphrodite Ovpavia. 
(Preller—Robert Gr. Adyth. i. 354—357 and Index p. 942, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. 
pp- 1363—1365 and Index p. 1701), is known to us from inscriptions (Corp. zzscr. Lat. 
v no. 8137 f. Pola, 2b. vi no. 780 Rome, 2d. ix no. 2562= Dessau Zuscr. Lat. sel. no. 3169 
Bovianum Undecimanorum, Corf. énscr. Lat. x no. 1596= Dessau Zuscr. Lat. sel. no. 4271 
Puteoli) and coins ((a) Agrippina Iunior: Rasche Lex. Mim. x. 887 VENVS CAELESTIS, 
cp. 20. 889 f. (6) Iulia Domna: Rasche Lex. Num. x. 887 VENVS CAELESTIS, cp. 26. 890. 
(c) Elagabalos: Cohen Monn. emp. rom.? iv. 351 no. 286 VENVS CAEL. (d@) Aquilia Severa: 
Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” iv. 381 f. no. 10 VENVS CAELESTIS. (e) Iulia Soaemias : Cohen 
Monn. emp. rom.” iv. 388f. nos. 8—20 VENVS CAELESTIS. (f/) Alexander Severus : 
Rasche Lex. Num. x. 889 VENVS CAELESTIS, cp. 7. 8gof. (g) Magnia Urbica: Cohen 
Monn. emp. rom. vi. 407 no. 9 VENVS CELEST. These coins show the goddess standing, 
or sitting, with an apple in one hand, a sceptre in the other, and sometimes a star in the 
field, or a child at her feet); and it is noteworthy that the title Cae/est’s was borne by 
Iuno also (Corp. zuscr. Lat. iii Suppl. no. 10407=Dessau Jnscr. Lat. sel. no. 3109 
Aquincum, Corp. inser. Lat. viii no. 1424 Thibursicum Bure, Mart. Cap. 58). Both 


Iupiter-Columns 69 


possibly it symbolises the sky itself. On the third side (fig. 27 c)! 
there is a design of exceptional, indeed of unique, character. A 
draped female sitting with uplifted hand occupies the foreground. 
Her sleeveless arm and the hound at her feet make it probable 
that she is Diana, goddess of the chase®. Her gesture and the 
upward glance of the hound direct attention to a singular figure 
in the background—Mercurius, who rushes from left to right with 
upturned face and wind-blown ch/amys, both hands grasping a 
caduceus and one foot planted on the top of a pillar’. Now 
Mercurius, as we have seen, stands for Wodan; and Wodan 
was the leader of the Wild Hunt or Furious Host, which on 
windy nights in autumn might be heard sweeping along the Milky 
Way*. I should therefore conjecture that this relief gives us an 
autumnal scene, the huntress Diana and the Wild Huntsman 
himself. 

Above the Viergotterstein, at least in the case of large and 
important columns, came the Wochengotterstetn—a block, usually 
octagonal or cylindrical, more rarely quadrangular hexagonal or 
heptagonal, which was decorated with the deities representing the 
days of the week®. These deities, arranged in a series from left to 


Venus Caelestis and Iuno Cae/lest?s were forms of the Carthaginian goddess Tanit, whose 
worship spread far and wide over the Roman world (see De Vit Oxomastzcom 1. 29, ill. 722, 
F. Cumont in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Lne. iii. 1247—1250, A. von Domaszewski Adhand- 
lungen 2ur rimischen Religion Leipzig and Berlin 1909 pp. 148—150, W. W. Baudissin 
Adonis und Esmun Leipzig 1911 p. 268 ff., Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rom.* pp. 373—375): 
they must not hastily be connected with Iupiter Cae/estzs (Corp. inscr. Lat. iii no. 1948 
Salonae, 7d. iii Suppl. no. 8668= Dessau Zzscr. Lat. sel. no. 3041 Salonae, Corp. inscr. 
Lat. x no. 4852 Venafrum) or with other deities bearing the same cult-epithet (Wissowa 
Rel. Kult. Rim. p. 374 n. 7). 

' A drawing of this plinth made for B. de Montfaucon and preserved in the Biblio- 
théque Nationale (nouv. fonds lat., r1g17, f° 12, cp. f° 11) shows the third scene as it 
appeared when its details were somewhat fresher and sharper than now. Accordingly 
I have used the drawing to supplement the photograph of the scene. F. Cumont Caéa- 
logue des sculptures & inscriptions antiques (monuments lapidaires) des Musées Royaux 
du Cinguantenaire* Bruxelles 1913 p. 212 publishes the two side by side. 

2 For Diana in sleeveless attire accompanied by her hound see Haug ‘ Die Viergotter- 
steine’ in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1891 x. 315 f. 

3 Mercurius as a runner appears in Roman paintings (e.g. Helbig Wandgem. Camp. 
p. 7 no. 15, p. 8 no. 18= Real Museo Borbonico Napoli 1830 vi pl. 2= Daremberg—Saglio 
Dict. Ant, iii. 1819 fig. 4960), gems (e.g. Furtwangler Geschnitt. Stetne Berlin p. 126 
no. 2736 pl. 24, cp. L. Stephani in the Comfte-rendu St. Pét. 1861 p. 17 n. 3), and 
bronzes (e.g. Babelon—Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. Nat. p. 158 no. 359 fig.). 
A statue of this sort (cp. the famous Mercury by Giovanni da Bologna in the Bargello at 
Florence) mounted on a high pedestal has presumably furnished the sculptor of our relief 
with a classical type for his Germanic theme. 

4 Supra p. 62 n. I. : 

5 See L. Lersch ‘Der planetarische Gotterkreis’ in the Jahrb. d. Vereins v. Alter- 
thumsfreund.im Rheint. 1844 iv. 147—176, 1844 v—vi. 299—314, 1846 viii. 145—152, 
J. de Witte ‘Les divinités des sept jours de la semaine’ in the Gaz. Arch. 1877 ili. 50—57, 


70 Jupiter-Columns 


right or right to left, were Saturnus, Sol, Luna, Mars, Mercurius, 
Iupiter, Venus (fig. 28). If for reasons of architectural symmetry 





the block so adorned was octagonal, its eighth side might be 


77—85, 26. 1879 v. 1—6, F. Hettner ‘Juppitersdulen’ in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 
1885 iv. 365 ff., especially pp. 383385, S. Reinach in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. 
ii. 171—173, Haug ‘Die Wochengéttersteine’ in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1890 ix. 
17—53, E. Maass Die Tagesedtter in Rom und den Provinzen aus der Kultur des Nieder- 
ganges der antiken Welt Berlin 1902 pp. 169—236, W. H. Roscher in his Lex. Myth. iii. 
2535, 2538, F. Hertlein Die /uppitergigantensiulen Stuttgart 1910 pp. 82—84. The 
clearest introduction to the subject together with the fullest collection of material will be 
found in Haug’s article, which is a model of concise and accurate investigation. 

1 This sandstone drum (height 0°51™, diameter 0°44™) stood formerly in the Templars’ 
Church at Neckarelz, its upper surface having been hollowed out to contain a copper 
basin for holy water. In 1873 it passed into the collection of the Alfertumsverein at 
Mannheim. It is described and figured by Haug in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1890 ix. 
29f. pl. 1, 1 (=my fig. 28), cp. Reinach Rép. Reliefs ii. 68 nos. 1—3. Of the individual 
deities (a) Saturnus wears hose, sleeved garment with girdle, and veil; in his right hand 
he holds the dre, in his left a bull’s head (? cp. Daremberg—Saglio Dect. Ant. ii. 172 
fig. 2403, supra i. 298 n. 7): (4) Sol, wearing chlamys, raises his right hand towards his 
flowing locks: (c) Luna, in chitén, himdtion, and tasselled veil, likewise raises her right 
hand towards her head: (d@) Mars, clad in tunic and cuirass, has a helmet on his head, 
a spear in his right hand and a shield in his left: (e) Mercurius wears a winged cap (?) 
and a chlamys over his left shoulder; his left hand holds the caduceus, his right hand 
a purse; and beside him crouches a misshapen goat: (/) Lupiter, quite naked, has a 
thunderbolt in his right hand, a long sceptre in his left: (g) Venus stands with crossed 
legs, her left hand pressing against her garment, her right uplifting a mirror. 


Tupiter-Columns aT 


occupied either by an inscription! or by some additional divinity 
naturally associated with the week-days—a Genius or Bonus 
Eventus?, a Fortuna or Felicitas* or Victoria‘. 

The Vzergéttersten and the Wochengotterstecn together formed 
a double plinth, from which rose the actual shaft of the column. 
This might on occasion be left smooth (fig. 29)°, but was normally 
covered with a scale-pattern (fig. 30)°, and sometimes adorned with 
vine-leaves etc. (fig. 31)’. F. Hertlein points out that such deco- 


1 Haug in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1890 ix. 33 no. 12 Castel near Mayence 
(IN+ H+D+D+=in honorem domus divinae), zd. 2b. 1890 ix. 34f. no. 15 Havange in 
Lorraine (1-0O+M), F. Hertlein Die /uppitergigantensiulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 83 Mainz 
(Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 6728 a latter part of inscription alone extant). 

2 Haug in the Westdeutsche Zettschrift 1890 ix. 28 no. 4 Metzingen, zd. 2b. 1890 ix. 
35 no. 17 Agnin (Isére). 

3 Haug in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1890 ix. 33 f. no. 13 Heddernheim (?). 

4 F. Hertlein Die Juppitergigantensdulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 82 n. 2 Merten in Lorraine. 

> Fig. 29 is a column, 15*50™ high, found at Merten near Saarlouis in 1878 and now 
preserved in the Museum at Metz (for bibliography see F. Hertlein Dze /uppitergiganten- 
sdulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 13f. and Espérandieu Bas-reliefs de la Gaule Rom. v. 452 ff. 
no. 4425 with six photographic cuts. Add Durm Baukunst d. Rim.” p. 742 ff. fig. 817). 
The restoration by E. Arnold published in the Jahrb. d. Vereins v. Alterthums- 
Sreund. im Rheintl. 1878 \xiv. 94—99 pl. 7 is far from accurate, and the same may be said 
of that by O. A. Hoffmann in the Gesellschaft fiir Lothringische Geschichte und Altertums- 
kunde: Jahrbuch 1889 i. 14 ff. Much better is that by A. Prost in the Rev. Arch. 1879 
i. 1—20 pl. rf. and in the ABudletin de la Société Nationale des Antiquatres de France 
1879 p- 64 (Mémoires de la Société Nationale des Antiquatres de France Série tv Tome x), 
or that by Tornow in the Deztsche Bauzettung 1879 no. 53 (reproduced by F. X. Kraus 
in Kunst und Altertum in Elsass-Lothringen 1886—1889 iii. 2. 316—325 fig. 87). My 
own restoration is based on that of Prost, from which however it varies in the character 
of its steps, in the arrangement of its reliefs, and in the reconstruction of its equestrian 
group. 

Remains of other smooth ‘ Jupiter-columns’ have come to light at Hagen near Saverne 
in the Wasserwald, at Butterstadt near Hanau, and at Tréves (Hertlein of. cz¢. p. 84). 

6 Fig. 30 is a column, 5°44™ high, found in 1884 in a fountain within the Roman 
walls at Heddernheim together with an altar to Iupiter and a smaller column topped by 
a figure of Jupiter enthroned. The whole group is now in the Historical Museum at 
Frankfurt: see O. Donner-von Richter and A. Riese Heddernheimer Ausgrabungen 
Frankfurt am Main 1885 (an Stelle des Neujahrs-Blattes des Vereins fiir Geschichte und 
Alterthumskunde fiir 1885 und 1886) pp. 1—20, whose pl. 1,1 I reproduce. Note that 
the Wochengottersteim is in the case of this column replaced by a Sechsgétterstein, on 
which see Haug in the Westdeutsche Zettschrift 1890 ix. 48 f. no. 4 Heddernheim. 

? Fig. 31 is a sandstone column, some 3°50™ high, found in 1838 at Neuenheim near 
Heidelberg, along with a Viergotterstein (Haug in the Westdeutsche Zettschrift 1891 x. 
26 no. 40 Neuenheim) and a fragmentary Mithraic figure (F. Cumont Zextes e¢ monu- 
ments figures relatifs aux mysteres de Mithra Bruxelles 1896 ii. 508 fig. 461), and now 
preserved in the Museum at Karlsruhe. The shaft is embellished with vine-leaves and 
birds perched among them: the four small heads of its capital are apparently female 
(F. Hertlein Die /uppitergigantensaulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 89). F. Cumont, whose 
illustration (of. cit. ii. 508 f. fig. 462) is here copied, supposes that the Veergitterstein 
mentioned above formed the base of this shaft. But F. Hertlein (of. c’¢. pp. 84, 89, 93) 
states that their respective dimensions are unsuitable. 

Fig. 32 is a drum of white limestone, 0°84™ high, found in 1726 at Les Fontaines, 


72 Tupiter-Columns 








Ee Se: 


\\\n\ at 
ty 


aN 
Shy 





5\\ 


=—s 


rT 
wut \ 





Iupiter-Columns 73 














ZA 2 : 
oe / g —— 4 
we ——— 
A] su Og e=sS 
g Wroaas =s= 
= 10 aS SS —— 
—— ft, ae p+ —\ 5 = 
= OF SSS SEB ZS 
XY Mag = Ss ps 
= \F- 7 ZG SSS 
Z\Irs 2 
> \ o_o 
=f l\F AB SSS 
s! SS |-_ —=—— —* 
E = Et 
— 
4 
‘ ———+ 
= 
= » —-s 
z WIE =o 
5 ——— 
—_ —F 


— 
—s 





Fig. 32. 
ration was suggestive of a tree-stem! and thus served 
to bring the hard stone of the Roman monument 


between Maubeuge and Avesnes, and now at Brussels (F. Cumont 
Catalogue des sculptures & inscriptions antiques (monuments lapidaires) 
des Musées Royaux du Cinquantenaire” Bruxelles 1913 p. 213 ff. no. 173, 
Espérandieu Bas-reliefs de la Gaule Rom. v. 192 f. no. 3985). The 
surface is covered with a tangle of vine-leaves. Against these is seen 
a nude Bacchant, who bounds along with streaming hair: she holds 
a thyrsos in her left hand, and with her right pours the contents of a 
horn or vAyéén into her mouth. Behind her flies a winged Cupid, who 
with his right hand steadies a basket of grapes on his head, and in his 
left carries some indistinct object: beneath his feet is a small quadruped 
(rabbit ?) nibbling a grape-bunch. When first discovered, this relief 
was in better condition and showed other animals half-hidden in the 
vine-shoots. F. Cumont thinks it certain that the drum and the 
Viergotterstein found on the same site (szpra p. 67 ff. fig. 27) belong to 
one monument, and F. Hertlein (of. cet. p. 84) regards the combina- 
tion as possible. : 

On the vine-leaf column as a Syrian motif that made its way through- 
out the Mediterranean area see S. Gsell in the Attd del 17 Congr. di 
arch. crist. p. 203 ff.,C. M. Kaufmann Handbuch der christlichen Archa- 
ologie® Paderborn 1913 p. 483 f. 

1 Durm Baukunst d. Rim.” p. 388 f. fig. 426, cp. M. Meurer Ver- 
gleichende Formenlehre des Ornamentes und der Pflanze Dresden 1909 


Pp: 572 ff. 


ae Iupiter-Columns 


nearer to its prototype—the wooden trunk of the old Germanic 
Trminsil. 

The shaft was surmounted by a capital displaying four small 
heads or busts (fig. 33)*, which have been interpreted by O. Donner- 
von Richter? and F. Hertlein‘ as the four divisions of the day— 





Fig. 33. 

Matutinus, Meridies, Vespera, Nox. Since these divisions corre- 
spond with the main points of the compass, the series runs from 
right to left. Nox always, and Meridies usually, is represented 
full-face, whereas Vespera and Matutinus are more often shown in 
profile. 

On the top of the column thus constituted was a sculptural 
group of peculiar aspect—a galloping rider supported on the 
shoulders and hands of a figure that bent or lay beneath him’. 
The rider has normally the face of a bearded Iupiter and the 
costume of a Roman general (fig. 34)%, very seldom a beardless 


1 F. Hertlein Die Juppitergigantensdulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 84. 

? Fig. 33 shows the heads on the capital of the column found in 1884 at Heddernheim 
(supra p. 71 n. 6) as published by O. Donner-von Richter and A. Riese Heddernheimer 
Ausgrabungen Frankfurt am Main 1885 (an Stelle des Neujahrs-Blattes des Vereins 
fiir Geschichte und Alterthumskunde fiir 1885 und 1886) pl. 1, 1—m. 

* O. Donner-von Richter and A. Riese of. cz¢. p. 12. 

4 F. Hertlein Die Juppitergigantensiulen Stuttgart 1910 pp. 87—93 gives a careful 
summary of the evidence, and succeeds in establishing his interpretation as against 
previous hypotheses. F. X. Kraus in the Jahrb. d. Vereins v. Alterthumsfreund. im 
Rheinl. 1878 \xiv. 99 and A. Hammeran in the Korrespondenzblatt der Westdeutschen 
Zeitschrift 1885 iv. 3 had regarded the heads as allegorical representations of the four 
seasons. E. aus’m Weerth in the Jahrb. d. Vereins v. Alterthumsfreund. im Rheinl. 
1878 lxiv. 99 n. 1 had suggested that they might be the four ages of man. Haug in the 
Lundberichte aus Schwaben 1907 xv. 82 had been content to view them as merely 
decorative. 

° By far the best account of this group is that given in F. Hertlein Die /ufpiter- 
sigantensaulen Stuttgart rg10 pp. 1—27 (‘ Verzeichnis der Gruppen des Gigantenreiters 
(oder Gigantenfahrers)’), 28—50 (‘Gesamtbeschreibung der Gruppe und Folgerung aus 
der Darstellung’), 51—69 (‘ Ursprung der Gruppe aus germanischen Vorstellungen’), 
70—86 (‘Die Juppitergigantensiule eine Irminsaule’), though we shall see reason to 
traverse his conclusion with regard to the significance of the reclining figure (¢7/ra p. 82). 

° Group in Jura-limestone (height without base 0°86™), found at Ehrang in 1890 and 
now in the Museum at Tréves (F. Hettner in the Korrespondenzblatt der Westdeutschen 
Zeitschrift 1891 x. 72 f. with fig., id. Die romischen Steindenkmdaler des Provinzialmuseums 


Iupiter-Columns as 


— 


barbaric head and native dress (fig. 35)'. Once he appears as driver 





of a dashing two-horse chariot, the likeness to Iupiter being pro- 
nounced (fig. 36). By way of offensive armour the rider brandishes 


zu Trier Trier 1893 p. 23f. no. 32 with fig.=my fig. 34, Reinach Rép. Szat. ii. 529 
no. 5, F. Hertlein of. czt. pp. 21 f., 30 n. 1, 33 f., 35, 43, 45, Espérandieu Bas-reliefs de 
la Gaule Rom. vi. 424f. no. 5246 with two photographic cuts). The rider wears ¢znzca, 
lorica, paludamentum : his left hand held the reins, his right was raised. The crouching 
figure grins with open mouth: his left hand held the left forefoot of the horse ; his right 
probably grasped a club (a suitable fragment was found), on which rested the right hoof 
of the horse. : 

! Group in yellowish grey sandstone (maximum height 0°78™), found at Ehrang in 
1890 and now in the Museum-at Tréves (F. Hettner in the Korrespondenzblatt der 
Westdeutschen Zeitschrift 1891 x. 73f. with fig., zd. Die romischen Steindenkmaler des 
Provinzialmuseums zu Trier Trier 1893 p. 21f. no. 31 with fig.=my fig. 35, Reinach 
kép. Stat. ii. 528 no. 5; F. Hertlein of. czt. pp. 21, 30 with n. 1, 32, 34, 35, 42, 43> 
Espérandieu Bas-reliefs de la Gaule Rom. vi. 412 ff. no. 5233 with photographic cuts). 
The rider wears a close-fitting jacket, which has a seam on the right side and reaches to 
his hips (edge visible in good light); whether it was sleeved or not is uncertain. His belt 
has a round disk at the back. His left hand held the reins; his right, connected with his 
head by a clumsy support, probably held a thunderbolt, not a spear (see F. Hertlein 
op. cit. p. 32). The horse has a saddle with pommels, back, saddle-cloth, etc. The 
crouching figure, a young and beardless male, bears the weight on his hunched shoulders. 
This group was found together with a Viergotterstein and other fragments in the same 
sandstone of a ‘Jupiter-column’ (F. Hettner in the Korrespondenzblatt der Westdeutschen 
Zeitschrift 1891 x. 75 ff., id. Die romischen Steindenkmaler des Provinzialmuseums zu 
Trier Trier 1893 p. 18 ff. nos. 27—30, Haug in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1891 x. 136 
no. £59 Ehrang, F. Hertlein of. cit. pp. 21, 94, 95), to which—despite the obvious 
difference in style—it may have belonged. 

2 Group in stone (plinth 0°65™ long, 0°45™ broad, o’og™ thick; driver 1'05™ high), 
found at Weissenhof near Besigheim in 1897 and now in the Lapidarium at Stuttgart 
(G. Sixt in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1897 xvi. «293—296 with two figs. of which the 


76 Iupiter-Columns 


either a thunderbolt (pl. iii)! or a spear (fig. 37)*: in one case he 





Fig. 36. 


second=my fig. 36, F. Haug und G. Sixt Die vomischen Inschriften und Bildwerke 
Wiirttembergs, im Auftrag des wiirtt. Geschichts- und Altertumsvereins herausgegeben 
Stuttgart tg00 no. 343 with the same two figs., F. Hertlein of. cz. pp- ites 12Q;1 BO 
with n. 1, 35, 37, 43) 46, 65 with the second fig. as title-vignette). Iupiter, wearing 
himdtion only, which is fastened by a brooch on his right shoulder and leaves the left 
shoulder bare, stands erect in a small chariot : his left hand originally held the reins, his 
right was somewhat drawn back and raised. The two horses, harnessed under a yoke, 
gallop onwards, their forefeet supported on the shoulders and hands of a beardless male 
figure with serpentiform legs. 

1 Group in red Vosges sandstone (original height c. 0°7o™ to o°80™), found in 1908 in 
the inner court of a vila rustica in the Wasserwald six kilometres S.W. of Saverne and 
now in the Museum of that town (A. Fuchs in the Avzeiger fiir elstissische Altertumskunde 
1909 i. 32 with fig., zd. in the Elsdssische Monatsschrift fiir Geschichte und Volkskunde 
IQLI il. 472—480, zd. Die Kultur der keltischen Vogesensiedelungen Zabern i. E. 1914 
pp. 120—124 with pl. 23, 1 (base and shaft), pl. 24, 1, 2, pl. 25, 1, 2 (four views of rider), 
E. Wendling Die keltisch-riémischen Steindenkmaler des Zaberner Museums Zabern 1912 
nos. 62 and 63, F. Hertlein of. czt. pp. 9, 30 n. 1, 31, 37, 43). With it was the rest of 
the monument, vz. a plain base, a smooth turned shaft (swpra p. 71 n. 5), and a simple 
capital. The rider, whose head resembles that of Iupiter, wears nothing but a cloak: he 
grasps in his raised right hand an iron thunderbolt (length 0°45™) with tines. The horse, 
equipped with a saddle-cloth, was supported by the usual kneeling figure. I am indebted 
to Prof. L. Bachmeyer, Director of the Museum at Saverne, for a minutely accurate 
description of the whole monument together with tracings of its several parts and a coloured 
restoration of the group (followed in my pl. iii). 

* Group in stone (present height o»54™, length 0*72™), found at Diedelkopf near Kusel 


INNO 








4 


SS 








PA RAS nN Ne a a < 


Yy 





\ 


Y 





See page 76 Pia 


The Jupiter-Column of Saverne. 





Iupiter-Columns me 


has a sword also slung on his left side!; and he sometimes? carries 
a four-spoked wheel, thrusting his left hand between two of its 


( i 
Ll hmr—owe 





Fig. 37. 


a ca 
ie 





(E. Wagner in the Westdeutsche Zettschrift 1882 i. 39, F. Hertlein of. czt. pp. 17, 31, 38, 
43, 44, 46, 49 fig-=my fig. 37). The rider wore a smooth ¢uzzca or jerkin, and in his 
right hand carried a spear, the end of which is visible against his horse. The crouching 
figure has large staring eyes and no beard: leaning on elbows and chin, he supported the 
horse’s hoofs with his hands. 

1 So in the group found at Butterstadt near Hanau (F. Hertlein of. cz. pp. 5, 33). 

2 F. Hertlein of. czt. p. 33 ‘Das merkwiirdigste Attribut des Reiters ist entschieden 
das vierspeichige Aad. Es hat sich mehreremal gefunden, an weit entfernten Orten, in 
Butterstadt bei Hanau [2d. p. 5], in Les Ronchers, Départ. Meuse [24. p. 26], in Meaux, 
Départ. Seine et Marne [zé. p. 27], und wohl auch an dem Bruchstiick von Zabern Iv 
[7é. p. g]... Wir werden dem Rad wieder begegnen auf Viergottersteinen [7. pp. 109 
with n. 3, 148 Niederwiirzbach, Amt Zweibriicken; Dunzweiler, Amt Homburg; Theley, 
Kreis Ottweiler].’ On the reliefs from Niederwiirzbach and Dunzweiler see Haug in the 
Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1891 x. 48f. nos. 94, 95. I figure that from Theley (sera i. 
289 n. 1 wrongly called ‘an altar’) after F. Hettner Die romzschen Steindenkmaler des 


78 Tupiter-Columns 


spokes as he reaches forward to grasp the reins (figs. 381, 39”). The 






iar 





( 
j af, 4 









h = - ae 
I Bon Ss =e Bk ioe af 
i cil il n iil l ath hy 
(Sec 
Fig. 39. Fig. 40. 


Provinzialmuseums zu Trier Trier 1893 p. 29 ff. no. 40 (plinth of red sandstone, height 
0°84™, breadth of side here shown 0°36™: Iupiter with wreath and ch/amys, holding 
sceptre (?) in right hand, six-spoked wheel in left; a small bird beside his right foot). 
F. Hertlein of. c7t. p. 109 n. 3 prefers to call this deity Mars (the head is beardless, the 
alleged wreath a ‘Lockenkranz,’ the chlamyjs a sagumt). 

1 Group in stone (original height not more than 0°50™) from Meaux (Seine-et-Marne) 
presumably found with a fragment of scale-patterned column (G. Gassies ‘ Cavalier et 
anguipéde sur un monument de Meaux’ in the Revue des études anciennes 1902 iv. 
287—297 with figs. 1—3, of which fig. 1 f. =my fig. 38, Reinach Xéf. Séat. ili. 270 no. 2, 
F. Hertlein of. cet. pp. 27, 29, 33, 34, 43, 60, Espérandieu Bas-reliefs de la Gaule Rom. 
iv. 258 f. no. 3207 with photographic cuts). The rider, whose head and right arm are 
missing, wears a wide tunic, a fluttering cloak, and hose: he passes his left hand through 
a rosette-like wheel to hold the reins. The horse has neither saddle nor saddle-cloth. 
The reclining figure is beardless, but male. 

2 Group from a column (c. 4°50™ high) found at Butterstadt near Hanau and now in the 
Museum des Geschichtsvereins at Hanau (W. Kiister in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1901 
xx. 325f. with fig. =my fig. 39, G. Gassies in the Revue des études anciennes 1902 iv. 290 fig. 3, 
Reinach Ré. Svat. ili. 151 no. 7, F. Hertlein of. c’¢ pp. 5 f., 30 n. 1, 33, 34, 39 f-, 43, 60). 
The rider, a Iupiter in type, wears tunica and paludamentum: his right arm was drawn 
back and raised; his left passes through a four-spoked wheel to hold the reins. The 
second figure, beardless but male, lies on his back and turns his face towards the left side 
of the rider : his right hand is pressed against the ground ; his left probably held the right 
hoof of the horse on his left shoulder, the left hoof of the horse resting on his right 
shoulder. 


Iupiter-Columns 79 


crouching or reclining figure commonly' turns his back towards the 
rider, whose horse he supports on his shoulders or hands (fig. 42)? or 


a 









- I ee “ae 


/| 





even on his head. He is bearded or unbearded, but always male?; 
his legs end in snakes with snaky heads of their own; and he 


1 F. Hertlein of. cé¢. p. 39 f. notes the exceptions—Heddernheim 1884 (zd. p. 6, 
supra p. 71 0. 6), Butterstadt (2d. p. 5f., supra p. 78 n. 2), Higny (7. p. 25), Arlon 
(26. p. 23), Hommert (74. p. 11). The last-named group is unusually complete (height 
r°15™, breadth o*51™). It was found in the forest of Hommert and is now in the Nancy 
Museum (L. Wiener Catalogue du Musée historique Lorrain’ Nancy 1895 p. 33 no. 243, 
F. Hertlein of. cit. pp. 11, 30 N. 1, 31, 33, 34, 35) 40, 42, Espérandieu Bas-reliefs de la 
Gaule Rom. vi. 24f. no. 4557 with photographic cut). I reproduce the engraving given 
by P. Morey in the Afémoires de ? Académie de Stanilas 1867 p. 143 ff. with pl. facing 
p- 135, fig. A=my fig. 41. The rideris bearded and, except for his clumsy-looking cloak, 
nude. The right forefoot of the horse seems to have pawed the air; the left is broken off 
short. The other figure, half sitting up in a very awkward attitude, turns his face towards 
the left side of the rider, whose feet he touches with both hands. 

* Group in stone (height 0°67™, length of plinth 0-34™) found at Pforzheim in 1869 
and now at Karlsruhe (E. Wagner in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1882 i. 36 ff. pl. 1, 2= 
my fig. 42, Reinach R&. Stat. ii. 529 no. 2, F. Hertlein of. czt. pp. 4, 29, 37 f., 42, 46). 
The galloping rider wears ¢enzca, lorica with belt, and paludamentum. The giant is 
bearded, and supports both forefeet of the horse on his hands. 

3 This is convincingly shown by F. Hertlein of. cz¢. p. 42 ff. 


80 -__ Tupiter-Columns 


sometimes has as his attribute a club! or a pair of clubs (fig. 43)’. 





Fig. 42. 


It has frequently been supposed that he is a vanquished foe trampled 
under foot by the victor*. But careful examination shows that this 


1 Thus e.g. the group found at Ladenburg in 1865 and now in the Museum at Mannheim 
(J. B. Stark in the Jahrb. ad. Vereins v. Alterthumsfreund. im Rhein. 1868 xliv. 27 pl- 
2b, figs. 1a, b, c and 2, Reinach Rép Stat. ii. 529 no 3, F. Hertlein of. czt. pp. 5, 300-1, 
43, 46f., 85 n. 1) represents the lower figure as holding a club with his right hand. Cp. 
supra p. 74 n. 6. 

2 Group in stone (height 0°66™, length of plinth 0:44™) found at Pforzheim in 1872 and 
now at Karlsruhe (E. Wagner in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1882 i. 36 ff. pl. 1, r=my 
fig. 43, Reinach Fé. Stat. ii. 528 no. 6, F. Hertlein of. cét. pp. 4, 30 N. 1, 32, 34, 36f., 
43 f., 46, 52). The rider, whose head resembles that of Iupiter, wears a smooth leathern 
jerkin with a girdle and a cloak. The figure beneath him, beardless but male, crouches 
on his knees and grasps two clubs, upon which the front hoofs of the horse are supported. 
Similarly in a group (height 0°37", length o*40™) found at Dalheim (F. Hertlein of. cit. 
pp- 22, 34, 38, 43) he shoulders two clubs, which support the forefeet of the horse; and 
in the stone group (height 056™) found at Schierstein in 1889 and now at Wiesbaden 
(G. A. Miiller Die Rettergruppe auf den rimisch-germanischen Giganten-Saulen Strass- 
burg and Biihl 1894 p. 12f. pl. 2, 3—s5, Reinach Rép. Séaz. ii. 814 no. 1, F. Kopp Die Romer 
in Deutschland Bielefeld 1905 p. 140f. fig., Forrer Reallex. p. 390 fig. 283, F. Hertlein 
op. cit. pp. 7, 30N. I, 33, 34, 35, 38, 43, 44, 46, 60, 85 n.1, 133) he grips a pair of 
clubs, on one of which rests the horse’s right forefoot. 

% Hence szpra i. 178 n. I spoke of ‘a warlike Iupiter on horse-back spearing a 
serpent-legged giant.’ I was wrong. 


Iupiter-Columns SI 


is not so. The mo¢if throughout is that of support, not active re- 
sistence!. The god and the giant are allies now, whatever they may 
have been once. 

This curious group has beyond doubt preserved to us in Ro- 
manised form the contents of a long-standing local belief. And 
F. Hertlein deserves all credit for recognising that the rider, who 





Fig. 43. 


has the guise of a warlike Iupiter, is none other than the old 
Germanic Ziu®, As a sky-god Ziu would control both sunshine 
and storm. The sun appears as the rider's wheel’, if not as his 
radiate crown‘; the lightning, as his brandished bolt or lance’. 


1 F. Hertlein of. cz. p. 28 ff. proves conclusively, as I now think, that the type in 
question implies support rather than continued hostility. He notes that the rider pays no 
attention to the giant, that the horse never tramples on the giant’s back or front, that the 
giant makes no effort to attack the rider, etc. But of course it remains open to us to sup- 
pose that the giant, formerly an enemy, has been reduced to serve as a footstool. 

2 F. Hertlein of. cit. p. 70 fff. 

3 Supra p. 77 f. Cp. supra i. 197 ff. (‘The Sun as a Wheel’) and i. 882 (Index ii s.z. 
‘Sun’). 

4 F. Hertlein of. cz¢. pp. 31, 73 maintains that several of the riders were fitted with 
a ‘ Strahlenkranz. But the evidence adduced by him is insufficient to prove his point. A 
dowel-hole on the head of rider or horse more probably implies a metal spike to keep 
birds from settling. 5 Supra p. 76. Cp. infra § 3 (¢) ii (‘The Spear of Zeus’). 


GC. Ik 6 


8 2 Iupiter-Columns 


So far, then, we can accept Hertlein’s view. But when, following 
A. Riese!, he contends that the prone or prostrate giant represents 
the earth?, he seems to be deserting the principle of interpretation 
that he has himself propounded. For the Germanic earth-power 
would have been a goddess (Nerthus* or the like) rather than a 
god. Besides, she would surely have been figured below, not above, 
the Romanised /yminsil/—a pillar that er hypothesi linked earth 
with heaven. I should therefore prefer to explain the giant along 
other lines. The provincial sculptor, bound to express himself in 





Fig. 44. Fig. 45. 


the art-speech of Rome, would naturally draw his design for a 
warlike Iupiter from the Graeco-Roman type of the Gigantomachy. 
Hence his Iupiter as rider or driver with uplifted bolt. Hence too 
his giant always with serpentine legs‘, sometimes with a club’, and 
in one case with a second giant beside him®. Further, when this 
pictorial composition, suitable enough for relief-work or intaglio 
or painting on the flat, was translated into sculpture in the round, 


1 A. Riese in the Gesellschaft fiir lothringische Geschichte und Altertumskunde : 
Jahrbuch 1900 xii. 324 ff. 

2 F. Hertlein of. cit. p. 47 f. 

° Tac. Germ. 40. For recent opinion with regard to Nerthus see W. Mannhardt Waid- 
und Feldkulte” Berlin 1904 i. 567—602, M. Ihm-in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 274—-277, 
E. Mogk in the Grundriss der germanischen Philologie? Herausgegeben von H. Paul 
Strassburg 1900 ili. 367—369, R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 
1910 pp. 204—209, K. Helm Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 i. 
31I—321. 

“ This feature of the Gigantes is discussed by E. Kuhnert in Roscher Lex. AZpth. i. 
1670 ff., M. Mayer Dee Giganten und Titanen Berlin 1887 pp. 274—282 (‘Typhoeus ; 
Schlangenfiissler’), cp. 7. pp. 216, 223 withn. 167, A. von Salis Der Altar von Pergamon 
Berlin 1912 p. 67f., E. Kiister Dee Schlange in der griechischen Kunst und Religion 
Giessen 1913 pp- 95—9Q7- 

> Supra p. 80. 

° A group from Pfalz (?) now in the Museum at Mayence (F. Hertlein of. cé¢. pp. 18, 
40f., 42f., 45) has a pair of giants, one bearded, the other beardless. This exceptional 
arrangement, like the occasional duplication of the giant’s club (swfra p. 80 n. 2), might 
be referred ¢o a mere feeling for symmetry (as is perhaps the case with some of the 
doublets citéd by E. Gerhard Zwei Minerven (Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Berlin viii) 
Berlin 1848, Overbeck Gr. Ayenstmyth. Zeus p. 257 n.°), but is more probably to be 
explained as a reminiscence $f the Gigantomachy. 


Iupiter-Columns 83 


the pose taken by the defeated combatant was modified to form the 
necessary support for the galloping horse. Thus owing to a definite 
structural requirement! the vanquished giant of Graeco-Roman art 
(figs. 44%, 45°, 464) became the subservient giant of the ‘ Jupiter- 
column.’ 

An exceptional group from Grand in the canton of Neufchateau 
shows an even quainter perversion of a classical type (fig. 48)°. For 
here the god on horseback, with a thunder-drum (?)* beneath him, 


1 It is, however, possible that, where the giant is represented as a half-length figure 
bent or bowed beneath the sky-god’s feet, there has been some contamination with the 
type of Caelus (szpra i. 59 ff.). 

2 A sardonyx cameo at Naples (Miiller—Wieseler Denkm. d. alt. Kunst ii. 18 pl. 3, 
34, Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke Ant. Denkm. i. 78 f. pl. 8, 3, E. Babelon in Daremberg— 
Saglio Déct. Ant. il. 1475 fig. 3513, 7a. La gravure en pierres fines Paris 1894 p. 130 ff. 
fig. 102, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 391 Gemmentaf. 5, 2, A. Furtwangler in the 
Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1888 iii. 215 f. pl. 8, to=2d. Klecne Schriften 
Miinchen 1913 ii. 207f. pl. 26, 19, zd. Ant. Gemmeni. pl. 57, 2 = my fig. 44, ii. 259, ili. 158) 
signed by AOQHNIQLN, a gem-engraver who probably worked at Pergamon for the court 
of Eumenes ii. Zeus in a chariot drawn by four horses drives over two serpent-legged 
giants. He brandishes a thunderbolt in his right hand, while he holds the reins and a 
sceptre in his left. Of the giants one is dead, the other still full of fight swings a torch in 
his right hand. 

3 A green paste at Berlin (Furtwangler Geschnitt. Stetne Berlin p. 335 no. 9452, 
Miiller—Wieseler Denkm. d. alt. Kunst ii. 52 pl. 7, 78a=my fig. 45, L. Stephani in the 
Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1865 p. 173, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Poseidon p. 333 Gem- 
mentaf. 3, 1, M. Mayer Dze Giganten und Titanen Berlin 1887 p. 394 ff. fig. 3, p. 405) 
represents a god on horseback attacking a giant with snaky legs. It is usual to dub this 
group Poseidon and Polybotes on the strength of Paus. r. 2. 4. But the weapon in the 
god’s hand is more like a thunderbolt than a ‘spear.’ I should therefore regard him as 
Zeus, despite the rarity of the equestrian type (swfra i. 19). It should be noted that 
Furtwangler /oc. cit. includes this paste among the ‘Bei Winckelmann und Tolken irr- 
thiimlich als antik verzeichnete moderne Glaspasten der Stoschischen Sammlung, zumeist 
nach antiken Steinen.’ 

4 An oinochée of s. ili. B.C. from Canusium published by H. Heydemann in the 
Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Halle i. pl. t=my fig. 46 (cp. E. Kuhnert in Roscher Zex. 
Myth. i. 1662, M. Mayer Die Giganten und Titanen Berlin 1887 p. 392 ff. fig. 1, 
H. Steinmetz in the Jahr. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1910 xxv. 36) shows Zeus fulmin- 
ant in-a four-horse chariot, with Hermes as charioteer, pursuing across the sea a giant, 
who heaves up a rock in both hands : above the horses of Zeus are four stars ; above the 
giant, the head of a wind-god breathing out a mighty blast. 

5 A group in common stone (height 1°60™), found in 1895 inside an ancient cistern at 
Champ- Marguerite near Grand and now in the Museum at Nancy (G. Save—A. Schuler 
‘Le groupe équestre de Grand au Musée lorrain’ in the Mémoires de la Société d’archéo- 
logie lorraine 1899 xix. 5—34 with figs., F. Hertlein of. cit. p. 23, Espérandieu Bas- 
reliefs de la Gaule Rom. vi. 202 ff. with photographic cuts of which the first two=my 
fig. 47). The rider wears bay-wreath, /orica, and pal/udamentum. His uplifted right hand 
held a weapon. The forefeet of his horse are supported on the wings of a nude male 
figure, who bears a lightning-flash—an obvious modification of Victory with a fillet. 

6 Cp. eg. Reinach Bronzes Figurés p. 156 no. 176 fig., p. 175 f. fig. (= Reinach Rép. 
Stat, ii. 21 no. 6), p. 176 fig., Harrison Themzs p. 114f. fig. 21, Frazer Golden Bough*: 
The Magic Art i. 248, ii. 183. Supra i. 650. 


6—2 


84 Iupiter-Columns 


is preceded by a nude male figure, who flies through the air with 


Fig. 46. 





[upiter-Columns 85 


at Zi 7 AY 
B 





——— 





ooo 





abil) 
mitt! 



































Fig. 47. 


86 Iupiter-Columns 


a flash of lightning held across his body. As he steps out from the 
top of the column, he looks like an incredibly clumsy caricature 
of Paionios’ Victory. 

Equally dzzarre is a group from Luxovium (Lwzewz/) in Germania 
Superior (fig. 48). This shows the rider-god thrusting his right 





Fig. 48. 


hand between the spokes? of a wheel and resting his left on the 
shoulder of a partially draped female figure; who appears to be 
floating through the air at his side. The giant is reduced to a 
mere head supporting the left forefoot of the horse. The precise 
significance of the group is uncertain. It is possible that the god 
and his attendant should be identified with Luxovius and Brixia, 
mentioned together in an inscription from Lavxeu2l*, But in any 
case the rider must be regarded as a form of the Celtic Iupiter, 
who is represented by statuettes in white clay from Moulins (Allier) 
as a bearded god in military garb holding a wheel in his right hand 


1 A. C. P. de Tubiéres Comte de Caylus Recauedl @antiquités égyptiennes, étrusques, 
grecques, romaines et gauloises Paris 1759 iii. 367 f. pl. 99, 3 (=my fig. 48), Reinach Rép. 
Stat. il. 532 nos. 3 and 6. Found at Luxeuil in 1755. Local stone. Height 5 ft. 

2 Caylus says : ‘une roue a sept rayes.’ 

3 Corp. inser. Lat. xiii no. 5426=Dessau Zuscr. Lat. sel. 4680 Luxovio et Brixiae G. 
Tul. Firma(n)us v.s.l.m., cp. 5425= 46807 [Lu]ssoio | et Briciae | Divixtilus Cons|tans | 
v.s.(l.)m. On Luxovius see M. Ihm in Roscher Lex. Adjth. ii. 2163 (‘Es scheint der 
Quellgott von Luxeuil-les-Bains zu sein’) and on Brixia A. Holder A/t-celtischer Sprach- 
schatz Leipzig 1896 i. 531 and 616 (‘vielleicht zu fl. Breuchin (Bréche) und O. Breuches 
und Breuchotte bei Luxeuil’), M. Ihm in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 835 f., Ruggiero 
Dizion. epigr. 1. 1027 and 1046, 


Iupiter-Columns 87 


and sometimes resting his left on the head of a nude female beside 
him (figs. 49, 50). « 

The seasons of the year, the days of the week, the divisions of 
the day, all surmounted by a group representing the triumphant 





Fig. 49. Fig. 50. 


sky-god. We can hardly conceive a better scheme of decoration 
for the Romano-Germanic /rminsi/. It was appropriately dedicated 
‘to Iupiter Best and Greatest” or ‘to Iupiter Best and Greatest and 
to Iuno the Queen®, in one case ‘to Iupiter Best and Greatest, the 


1 H. Gaidoz in the Rev. Arch. 1884 ii. 8f. figs. I—5 (4 and 5=my figs. 49 and 50), 
A. Bertrand La religion des Gaulois Paris 1897 p. 319 pl. 28. Cp. supra i. 288 f. 

* Tout) O(ptimo) Maximo). Soon the Viergéttersteine of Brotzingen (Haugin the Wesz- 
deutsche Zeitschrift 1891 x. 22 no. 30), Schierstein (7d. 76. 1891 x. 33 no. 56), Godram- 
stein (zd. 76. 1891 x. 45 no. 86), Mayence (2d. 2. 1891 x. 59 no. 129), Kreuznach (za. 70. 
1891 x. 126 no. 135), Metz (zd. 2. 1891 x. 132 no. 150 [I]OM), Ahrgebiet (ed. 2b. 1891 
x. 138 no. 164= Corp. imscr. Lat. xiii no. 7784), Mosbach (F. Hertlein of. cz¢. p. 119), 
Kreuznach dzs (zd. 2b. p. 124 [I].O.M=Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 7528), and on the 
Wochengitterstetn of Havange (Haug in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1890 ix. 34 f. no. 15, 
supra p. 71 Nn. 1). See further F. Hertlein of. cit. p. 80. 

3 Tout) O(ptimo) M(aximo) et Iunoni Reginae. So on the Viergittersteine of Kastel 
(Haug in the Westdeatsche Zeitschrift 1891 x. 30 f.no 50[I.O. M.] et I[uno]ni Re[g(inae)}), 
Kastel dzs (id. 7b. 1891 x. 32 no. 53 I.O.M. et Iun. Reg.), Kastel der (zd. 76. 1891 x. 326. 


g 8 Jupiter-Columns 


Preserver', in another ‘to Iupiter Best and Greatest and to all 
the other gods and goddesses immortal?’ Thus with simple time- 
honoured phrases the tribes of Rhenic Germany attested their belief 
that heaven, the abode of the sky-god, rested on a world-pillar. 
Their ancestors, could we have questioned them, would probably 
have held the same opinion in a slightly different form, speaking 
not of a pillar but of a tree—a notion that still lingers in the cottage- 


homes of their descendants*. 

Finally, since the holy tree of a primitive cult is apt to be 
associated with a holy well‘, F. Hertlein rightly draws attention 
to the fact that a noticeable proportion of these ‘ Jupiter-columns’ 
has been discovered in Roman wells or beside a spring or river®. 


no. 55 1.O.M. e[t Iun.] = Corp. imscr. Lat. xiii no. 7270 I.O. M. e[t I.R.]), Bierstadt 
(Haug in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1891 x. 34 no. 58 [I.]O.M. [IuJnoni Reg.), Lieder- 
bach (zd. 26. r891 x. 34 no. 59 I.O.M. et Iunon(i) Re(ginae)), Heddernheim (éd. 26. 1891 
x. 35 no. 61 [I.O. M. et Iunoni RegiJnae), Heddernheim d7s (zd. ib. 1891 x. 35 f. no. 62 
[1.JO.M. Iunoni Reginafe]), Mayence (zd. 7. 1891 x. 55f. no. 120 I.O.M, which 
J. Becker Die rimischen Inschrifien und Steinsculpturen des Museums der Stadt Mainz 
Mainz 1875 p. 3 no. 11 completes [Iun. Reg.], the Cor. izscr. Lat. xiii no. 6699 [et I. R.], 
F. Hertlein of. cz. p. 81n. 1 [(et) I. R.]), Mayence é2s (Haug in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 
1891 x. 56 no. 121 I.O.M. et Iunoni Reginae), Mayence ¢er (id. 7b. 1891 x. 57 no. 124 
I.O.M. et Iunoni Reginae), Heddernheim er (F. Hertlein of. cz¢. p. 6 [1.0.M. et 
I.JR.), Mayence guater (2d. 7b. p. 123, cp. Korber in the Westdeutsche Zeitung 1906 xxv 
Korrespondenzbl. p. 168 f. [I.O.M. et Iunoni Rel]gin(a)e), Weisenau (é¢. 7. p. 123 
[1.O. M. et] Iunoni Reg.). 

1 [(ovt) O(ptimo) M(aximo) Conservato[ri]. So ona Viergétterstein of Kastel (Haug in 
the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1891 x. 31 f. no. 52). For Conservator as an epithet of gods in 
general and of Iupiter in particular see the Zhes. Ling. Lat. iv. 418, 37 ff., Preller— 
Jordan Rom. Myth. i. 208, 238, Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rim.” p. 128 f.: cp. supra i. 276 
N. 5, 551N. 11, 608 n. 7. 

® Love Optimo Maximo et caeteris dis deabusg(ue) immortalibus. So on the Wochen- 
sotterstem of Agnin (Orelli—Henzen Znscr. Lat. sel. no. 5653, Haug in the Westdeutsche 
Zeitung 1890 ix. 35 no. 17). 

* The idea of a world-tree (on which see e.g. J. Grimm Teutonic Mythology trans. 
J. S. Stallybrass London 1883 ii. 796 ff., 1888 iv. 1536f., P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye 
The Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 1902 p. 347 ff., R. M. Meyer Altger- 
manische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 pp. 69, 474 ff-, 547f. 3 Folk-Lore 1906 xvii. 
56f., 158f.; R. Eisler Weltenmantel und Himmelszelt Miinchen Igio ll. 565 f., 584, 604, 
677; A. de Gubernatis Za mythologie des plantes Paris 1878-i. 93 ff., 1882 ii. 75 ff.; 
Mrs J. H. Philpot Zhe Sacred Tree London 1897 p. 109 ff.) enters into tales of the ‘Jack 
and Beanstalk’ type (C. S. Burne 7he Handbook of Folklore London 1914 p- 350 No. 33), 
which are of wide-spread occurrence (E. B. Tylor Researches into the Early History of 
Mankind and the Development of Civilization London 1865 Pp: 341—349, W. R. S. 
Ralston Resséan Folk- Tales London 1873 pp. 291—298, J. Jacobs English Fairy Tales* 
London 1898 pp. 59 ff., 238) and have left traces of themselves in France (P. Sébillot Ze 
Folk-lore de France 1906 iii. 439)and Germany (Grimm’s Household Tales trans. M. Hunt 
London 1901 ii. 107 f. no. 112, 7d. ii. 413, ep. 2b. ii. 506—508). 

4 Suprai.76f., 368f., 526 n. 4. 

* F. Hertlein of. cz¢. p. 85 f., following up an observation by F. Hettner in the Wes¢- 
deutsche Zeitschrift 1885 iv. 387. 


Iupiter-Columns 89 


Another variety of ‘Jupiter-column, found over a wider area! 
and dating, it would seem, from a somewhat earlier period®, was 
surmounted merely by a seated or standing 
figure of the sky-god*. These columns were 
characterised by much sculptural decoration‘. 
Their square plinth was regularly a Viergétter- 
stein carved with deities: indeed, it seems 
probable that the practice of thus adorning the 
plinth began with the makers of the earlier 
columns and spread from them to the makers 
of the rider-and-giant series, who improved upon 
the earlier plan by restricting the deities in 
question to representatives of the seasons, soon 
afterwards adding the heads or busts on the 
capital to denote the divisions of the day, and 
at the same time or but little later introducing 
the Wochengotterstein as a secondary plinth’. 
The shaft of the earlier columns might be left 
smooth (fig. 51)°, but was often patterned with 
scales etc.’, and sometimes also embellished with 
the figures of deities, e.g. Mercurius, Minerva, 
Iuno (fig. 52)§ or Hercules, Minerva, Iuno in 


1 F. Hertlein of. cz¢. p. 51 : ‘derartige Saulen mit stehen- 
dem oder thronendem Juppiter finden sich haufig ausserhalb 
des Gebietes der Gigantengruppen und an der Peripherie der- 
selben, wo diese sehr selten sind, wie in der Kélner Gegend’ 
(cp. 26. pp. 53, 158). 

= /dad0.. Pa 150: 

® Hence F. Hertlein of. cz#. passim would distinguish them 
as ‘ Juppitersdulen’ from the ‘ Juppitergigantensiulen’ already 
discussed. This convenient nomenclature is more possible in 
German than in English. 

4 F. Hertlem of: cz¢. p. 157: 

> Jd. ib. pp. 159—161. 

8 So in the case of the smaller column from Heddernheim 
(O. Donner-von Richter and A. Riese Heddernheimer A userabungen Frankfurt am Main 
1885 (an Stelle des Neujahrs-Blattes des Vereins fiir Geschichte und Alterthumskunde 
fiir 1885 und 1886) pl. 1, 2f.=my fig. 51, F. Hertlein of. céz. pp. 6, 158, supra p. 71 
n. 6), which has a total height of 2*30™ and is accompanied by an altar 0°625™ high 
inscribed /(ovz) O(ptimo) Maximo). 

7 F. Hertlein of. czt. p. 158, cp. 7. p. 84. 

8 Id. 7b. p. 157 f. I figure the limestone altar, column, and statue found in 1880 at 
Mayence among the ruins of a large Roman building and now in the Mayence Museum 
(J. Keller in the Jahrb. d. Vereins v. Alterthumsfreund. im Rheinl. 1881 \xx. 1 ff. pl. 1, 
F. Hettner in the Westdeutsche Zeitschrift 1885 iv. 370f., Korber in the Mainzer Zett- 
schrift 1906 i. 62 fig., F. Hertlein of. cit. p. 157f.). The altar (height o’50™, length 
and breadth 0°315™) is inscribed Z(ovt) O(ptémo) Maximo) | M.P.P. | v.s.l.d.m. The 
column (upper diameter 018", height ¢c. 1°60™), once mounted on a plinth, is decorated 





Fig. 51. 












ing 











Tupiter-Columns 





ascending order (fig. 53). The column asa 
whole was dedicated ‘to Iupiter Best and 
Greatest,’ but not—so far as we know—to 
Iuno in combination with him’. 

The earlier, like the later, variety of ‘ Jupi- 
ter-column’ had a long history behind it, 
being in all probability itself descended from 
the Germanic /rminsil. The one example of 
which any trace subsists in our own country 
stood at Durocornovium (Czrencester). Here 
a small sandstone plinth has come to light 
with a scale-pattern and three superposed figures of Mer- 
curius, Minerva, Iuno. The statue, to judge from its di- 
mensions, stood upon the capital of the column, not—as 
Keller supposed—on the altar. Hertlein notes that the 
column of Klein-Bouslar near Erkelenz (Westdeutsche Zeit- 
Schrift 1907 xxvi. 321) exhibits the same three deities in the 
same order. See further F. Hettner in the Westdeutsche 
Zeitschrift 1885 iv. 386. 

1 S. Reinach in the Rev. arch. 1913 i. 27 fig. 2 ‘Colonne 
de Miilfort.’ 

2 F. Hertlein of. ct. p. 158, cp. 20. p. 81. 














Fig. 52. 


~ 


Iupiter-Columns gl 


inscribed with careful lettering of Diocletian’s age (284—305 A.D.). In 
front is a dedication ‘To Iupiter Best and Greatest. L. Septimius..., 
an equestrian, governor of the first province of 
Britain, restored this by the agency of C. Iust....’ 
To left and right are two very indifferent verses : 


The statue and the column here in ancient days adored 
Britannia Prima’s ruler Septimius restored}. 


The object of Septimius’ pious and politic care 
was certainly a ‘Jupiter-column’ of some sort. 
And, if the road connecting Calleva (Sz/chester) 
with Durocornovium (Czrencester) was really, as 
FE. Hubner supposed, an Ermine Street?, it may 
fairly be assumed that the column had taken the 
place of an older /vminsil. Nor need we be 
deterred from regarding the ‘ Jupiter-column’ as 
a Romanised /rminsil by the fact that deities 
were carved upon its shaft. The /rmznszi/ near 
Eresburg* was itself described by a Saxon poet, 
who wrote in the reign of Arnulf, as a thing ‘of 
beauty*’ And a similar sacred post at Austa 


1 E. Hiibner in the Korrespondenzblatt der Westdeutschen 

Zeitschrift 1891 x. 254 f. reads the dedication as follows : Z(ov2) 
O(ptimo) [M(aximo)]| L. Septlimdus...] | v(t) plerfectissimus) 
pr(aeses) [prov(inciae) Brit(anniae) pr(imae)] | rest[ctauzt] | 
c(urante) Iust{ino...] and the hexameters thus: [Szg]veam et | 
[erJectam | [p]risca re\[l]gtone collu|mnam|| Septimizus | renovat, | 
primae | provinciae | rector. F. Biicheler Carmina Latina epi- 
graphica Lipsiae 1895 i. 135 no. 277 prefers: Z(ovd) O( ptzmo) 
[M(aximo)]| L. Septlimius...] | v(tr) plerfectissimus) pr(aeses) t 
[prov(znctae) Brit(anniae) primae] | rest[ztuct curam agente] | Fig. 53: 
C. Lust...and [Sig|um et | (derlectam | [p\risca re|gione co|[lu\mnam|| Septimius | reno- 
vat | primae | provinciae | rector. F. Haverfield in the Anglish Historical Review for July 
1896 figures the plinth and (followed by E. Conybeare Roman Britain London 1903 
p- 225 n. 1) reads the hexameters in the inverse order. Cp. also Ephem. epigr. ix. 517 f. 
no. 997, F. Haverfield Zhe Romanization of Roman Britain® Oxford 1915 p. 70 n. I. 

2 See the map appended to Cor. iuscr. Lat. vii. Cp. T. Codrington Roman Roads in 
Sritain London 1903 p. 29f. ‘ Higden, following another of King Belinus’s roads in 
Geoffrey of Monmouth’s account, says that Erming Street tends from west to east, 
beginning at St. David’s, and goes to Southampton, that is, roughly parallel to Watling 
Street, and extending from sea to sea. There can be little doubt that he referred to the 
line of Roman roads through Gloucester, Cirencester, Cricklade, to near Wanborough, 
and then south by Marlborough to Winchester and Bitterne near Southampton, a route 
which in Gloucestershire and North Wiltshire still bears the name of the Ermin Way.’ 

3 Supra p. 53. 

4 Poeta Saxo annalium de gestis Caroli Magni imperatoris lib. 1 anno 772 Vv. 45 ff. 
(G. H. Pertz Monumenta Germaniae historica Hannoverae 1826 i. 228) Gens eadem 
coluit simulacrum, quod vocitabant | Irminsul, cuius factura similis (sic cod. : s¢mzlés 
factura corr. Leibnitius) columne (factuva simulgue columna cj. Reineccius) | Non 
operis parvi fuerat pariterque decoris. 





Q2 Tupiter-Columns 


(Ze Bourg d’ Augst near Eu) in Neustria mentioned in an eighth- 
century Life of Walaricus, Abbot of Leuconaus, who died c. 622 A.D., 
was ‘figured with diverse images”. Such examples lend some sup- 
port to the statement of Simon Grunau® that in the great evergreen 


1S, A. Bennett in Smith—Wace Dict. Chr. Biogr. iv. 1169. 

2 Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Aprilis i. 21 (Ragimbertus Abbas v. S. Walarici 16) 
Et juxta ripam ipsius fluminis stipes erat magnus, diversis imaginibus figuratus, atque ibi 
in terram magna virtute immissus, qui nimio cultu, more Gentilium, a rusticis colebatur. 
Cumque hoc Confessor Domini vidisset, confestim zelo Dei accensus, ad puerum dixit : 
Fili mi, impinge hunc in ruinam cadendum. Qui nihil heesitans nec moratus, manu hunc 
tantummodo contigit ; & pondus immensum, quod vix multitudo hominum magna vi 
posset evellere vel securibus incidere, a tactu unius obedientis monachi, quasi madidus & 
putrefactus, nimio fragore & magno impetu subito ad terram cecidit, atque in semetipsum 
totus confractus apparuit. Et hic quidem rusticis, habitantibus in loco, non parvum tam 
moerorem quam & stuporem omnibus preebuit: sed undique illis certatim concurrentibus 
cum armis & fustibus, indigne hoc ferentes invicem, ut quasi injuriam Dei sui vindicarent, 
cum in eum unanimiter magno furore erupissent, & extensis brachiis colaphos ictusque 
suos in aére suspendissent ; ille, ut erat semper animo intrepidus atque robustus, fertur 
eis illud dixisse : Si Dominus hoc permittit, nullus ei resistere valebit. At illi é contrario 
perterriti, ab intentione animi sui statim divino nutu repressi, ab eo recesserunt. Sed his 
ita dimissis, ccepit Sacerdos divino spiritu afflatus eos instruere, ut relictis idolis omnipo- 
tenti Deo deservirent. Et in ipso eodemque loco postea in honorem B. Walarici basilicam 
construxerunt, juxta fontem aliquem, ex quo fertur ipse se lavisse ; ubi plurima beneficia 
recta fide petentibus a Domino preestantur. 

It will be observed that this post, like the ‘Jupiter-columns’ (swfrva p. 88), was set 
up beside a spring and not far from a river. 

° S. Grunau Preussische Chronik ed. M. Perlbach Leipzig 1876 i. 78 (Tractat. ii 
cap. 5 sect. 2 ‘Vonn der gelegenheit der eichenn, inn welchin do worenn die géotthe.’) 
“Die grosse dicke und mechtige hohe eiche, in welcher der teuffel sein gespenst hette und 
die bilde der abgotte ynne woren, halt ich ausz vorplendungk des teufels, war stetis griin, 
winter und sommer, und war obene weit und breit so dicke von lobe, damit kein regen 
dardurch kunt fallen, und umb und umb woren hubsche tuchir vorgezogen ein schrit aber 
3 von der eichen wol 7 elen hoch, do mocht niemandt eingehen ag der kirwaito und die 
obirsten waidolotten, sonder so imandes quam, sie die tuchir wegk zogen. Und die eiche 
war (wo/ cod. A) gleich in 3 teil geteilet, in iglichem wie in eim gemachten fenster stundt 
ein abgott und hett vor sich sein cleinott. Die eine seite hilt das bilde Perkuno inne, 
wies oben ist gesagt wurden, und sein cleinott war, domit man stetis feuir hette von 
eichenem holtze tag und nacht, und so is von vorseumnis ausginge, is koste dem zuge- 
eigenten waidlotten den hals, auff man brandte die oppherungk. Dy andre seite hilt 
ynne das bildt Potrumppi und het vor sein cleinot eine slange, und die wardt in einem 
grosen toppe irnert mit milch von den waydolottinnen und stetis mit garwen des getreides 
bedeckt. Das dritte bilde Patolli hilt inne die dritten seitte, und sein cleinott war ein 
todten kopff vonn eim menschin, pferde und ku, und diesen zu zeiten in iren festen in eim 
toppe unslitt brandten zur erungk. Umb und umb in ihren gezelten wonten die wado- 
lotteu (leg. zwadolotten).’ 

Simon Grunau’s good faith has been doubted or denied, especially in regard to these 
three images (M. Toeppen Geschichte der Preussischen Listoriographie von P.v. Dusburg 
bis auf K. Schiitz Berlin 1853 pp. 122—201, H. Usener Gétternamen Bonn 1896 p. 83). 
But he lived as an itinerant Dominican friar early in the sixteenth century in that part of 
Prussia, which had been ceded to Poland (Frazer Golden Bough®: The Magic Art ii. 
366 n. 2); and such a man would have had excellent opportunities of becoming acquainted 
with the old heathen customs of the district. 










DX: 


EL STUN a a Se } 





t] 


oy] 
<a 


UC 
‘il ae. 


SIA 
Wi Gs 


ON 
xy 







Al ®38Ild 


*O0] pe vpuappp yitar yy £6 adn aay 


apis 149Ty 





‘96 advg uo wars st pajuasasgar sargiap ayy of hay ay 
‘souakey] JO UUINIOD painjdjnos ay], 


ga | apis yeT 








SS 5 ee 
SSeS 








Ly \ A 
ye 4 
: Its - ) a 
> v7 ‘ | 
wy] f ; : 
207 Tin 
~ MUD KA 
rE ia 
DVIPS S Se eS SOY 


A) 
AEN INONIRINININININIS ANIONS 











CLAN 
LESCSC CISC SOE SEIS TAN 





ye pao EIN 
oan) 


fe 











PREP PD Pe Tl 








The Column of Mayence 93 


oak at Romove! were images of the three Lithuanian gods Perkunas, 
Potrympus, and Pikulas®. 


(€) The Column of Mayence. 


Perhaps the earliest, certainly the finest, example of the figured 
variety is the ‘Jupiter-column’ found within the ¢errztortum of the 
Roman camp at Mogontiacum (J/ayence) in 1905 and now preserved 
in the Mayence Museum (pl. iv)*. From a double plinth (2°98™ 
high) rose a base, shaft, and capital (together 5‘60™ high) support- 
ing a pedestal (0°62™ high), on which stood a bronze statue of 
Iupiter. The front of the upper plinth was inscribed: ‘To Iupiter 
Best and Greatest on behalf of the emperor Nero Claudius Caesar 
Augustus (this monument was dedicated) by the public action of 
the Canabarii#, when L. Sulpicius Scribonius Proculus imperial 
legate was propraetor®, through the agency and at the charges of 
Q. Iulius Priscus and Q. Iulius Auctus*” The sculptors, who 
decorated the column, added their names on the cornice of the 
lower plinth: ‘Samus and Severus, sons of Venicarus, did the 
carving’. This lower plinth was in effect a Vzergotterstein. It 


1 On the oak at Romove see further W. J. A. von Tettau und J. D. H. Temme Die 
Volkssagen Ostpreussens, Litthauens und Westpreussens Berlin 1837 pp. 19—22, 35—38, 
J. Voigt Geschichte Preussens Konigsberg 1827 i. 580 ff., 595 ff., P. Wagler Die Ziche in 
alter und neuer Zeit Berlin 1891 ii. 46—48, Frazer Golden Bough*: The Magic Art ii. 
365—367- 

2 The names of the three gods are discussed by H. Usener Gotternamen Bonn 1896 
Pp: 97, 98, 98 f. 

% K. Korber ‘ Die grosse Iuppiter-Saule von Mainz’ in the MWaznzer Zeitschrift 1906 
i. 54 ff., A. von Domaszewski ‘ Die Iuppitersaiule in Mainz’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1906 
ix. 303—311 pl. 2 (from which my pl. iv is redrawn), E. Maass ‘Die Griechen in Siid- 
gallien’ in the /Jahvresh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1907 x. 85 ff. with figs. 33—38, Reinach 2ép. 
Reliefs i. 186 f., F. Hertlein Die /Juppitergigantensdulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 155 ff., cp. 2d. 
pp. 80, 96, 123, 127, 131, A. Oxé in the Mainzer Zeztschrift 1912 vii. 28 ff. pls. 3 f., 
E. Neeb Die /uppitersdule, eine kurzse Erklarung thres Bildschmuckes mit 4 Tafeln 
Stuttgart s.a., S. Reinach ‘La colonne historiée de Mayence’ in the Rev. arch. 1913 i. 
25—30 figs. 1—4, E. Strong ‘On the storied column of Mayence’ 2d. 1913 ii. 321 —332 
figs. 1—5, S. Reinach ‘ Rosmerta ou Maia?’ 26. 1913 il. 333 f. 

+ These Canabariz or Canabenses were the czves Romant ad Canabas of Mayence, 
z.e. Shop-keepers, traders, veterans etc. occupying the wooden shanties (cazadae), which 
alone were permitted in the vicinity of the Roman camp (A. von Domaszewski in the 
Archiv f. Rel. 1906 ix. 153 ff.). ; 

5 Scribonius Proculus and his brother Rufus, governors of Germania Superior and 
Inferior respectively, were recalled by Nero in 67 a.p. (Dion Cass. 63. 17, cp. Tac. azz. 
13. 48, hist. 4. 41). ' 

6 A. von Domaszewski in the Archiv f. Rel. 1906 ix. 303=Dessau Lnscr. Lat. sel. 
Au g(ust2)| impleratoris) | Canabalri| publ lice | P. Sulpicio Scri[bjonio Proculo leg(ato) 
Aug(usti) p[r(0) p\r(aetore) ; | cura et empensa | Q. Luli Prisc[z] et Q. Luli Aucti. 

7 A. von Domaszewski in the Archiv f. Rel. 1906 ix. 304=Dessau Luscr. Lat. sel. 
no. 9235 Samus et Severus Venicari f{(ilit) sculpserunt. 


94 The Column of Mayence 


exhibits the seasonal (?) series! from right to left with sundry slight 
modifications—Iupiter replacing Iuno as patron of the opening 
year’, Mercurius being provided with a partner, possibly Maia (?)°, 


1 Tuno (=Frija) as goddess of spring, Mercurius (= Wodan) as god of summer, 
Hercules (=Donar) as god of autumn, Minerva (=Holda) as goddess of winter. See 
supra p. 58 ff. 

2 Tupiter heads the climatic series because he was ‘the Author of Good Weather’ 
(Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 6=Orelli—Henzen Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 5615=Dessau Jnscr. 
Lat. sel. no. 3060 a marble altar from Lescure (Ariége) inscribed 7. 0. m. | auctoré | 
bonarum | Tempes|tatium, | Val. Iustus between a fatera carved to the left and a guttus 
to the right, cp. Corf. zzscr. Lat. vili no. 2609=Orelli Zuscr. Lat. sel, no. 1271 = Dessau, 
Inscr. Lat. sel. no. 3061 an altar found near Lambaesis Jovi 0. m. | Tempestatium | 
divinarum | potenti, | leg. III Aug. | dedicante | Q. Fabio Catullino | leg. Aug. pr. pr. 
together with a twin altar Corp. inscr. Lat. viii no. 2610=Orelli loc. cit. = Dessau Joc. cet. 
Ventis | bonarum | Tempes\|tatium | potentibus | leg. LIL Aug. | dedicante | Q. Fabio 
Catullino | leg. Aug. pr. pr.). Similarly Zeus, the author of days and years (supra i. 16 
n. 3, 187 n. 8), is associated with the Horai as powers of the ‘year’ (L. Meyer Handb. 
d. gr. Etym. i. 653f., Schrader Reallex. p. 395, Prellwitz Ztym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr? 
p- 523) throughout the whole of their long development (on which see J. H. Krause 
Musen Grazien Horen und Nymphen Halle 1871 pp. 1o9g—127, P. Herrmann De Hora- 
rum apud veteres figuris Berlin 1887, Preller—Robert Gr. A/yth. i. 477—480, A. Rapp 
in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 2712—2741, J. A. Hild in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iii. 
249—256, Gruppe Gr. Ath. Rel. pp. 382 n. 1, 1063 n. 3, Jolles in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. viii. 2300—2313). Thus the Ards wpac of Homer (Od. 24. 344 with Eustath. 
in Od. p. 1964, 28, cp. Pind. O/. 4. 1 ff. éharnp bréprare Bpov|ras axamavTomodos | Zed: 
real yap “Qpat k.7.d. with scholl. ad doc.) become in Hesiod and later writers the daughters 
of Zeus by Themis (Hes. ¢heog. go ff., cp. 0. d. 256; Pind. frag. 30 Schroeder=supra 
p- 37 n. 1, cp. Ol. 13. 6ff.; Orph. 2. Hor. 43. 1 ff.; Apollod. r. 3. 1; Hyg. fab. praef. 
p- 12, 6 Schmidt and fad. 183 ; Cornut. ¢heol. 29 p. 57, 6 ff. Lang; Rufin. vecognzt. 10. 21 ; 
Eudok. vol. 1019), or at least the daughters (Diod. 5. 72, Paus. 5. 11. 7) or attendants 
of Zeus (Nonn. Dron. 8. 5, 8. 33, cp. 7. 106 f.). Hence they figured as decorative details 
on the throne of Zeus at Olympia (Paus. 5. 11. 7) and at Megara (Paus. 1. 40. 4). 

But, apart from the general connexion of Iupiter with the Tempestates or Zeus with 
the Horai, there seems to have been a special reason why this deity was chosen as the 
representative of spring, vzz. a May-festival of Iupiter in the Gallo-Germanic area 
(E. Maass in the Jahresh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1907 x. 108 ff. cites Eligius, bishop of Noyon 
(640—648 A.D.), de rectitudine catholicae conversationis (xl. 1172 Migne) Nullus diem 
Iovis absque sanctis festivitatibus nec in Maio nec in ullo tempore in otio observet). 

® Mercurius, clad in chlamys, winged pétasos and sandals, holds a caduceus in his left 
hand and offers a purse with his right, while a cock—his frequent attribute—hovers above 
it. His companion, in chitén and himdtion, holds out towards him a winged fétasos in 
her left hand, a cadaceus in her right. Beneath the latter is a stepped omphaloid stone, 
round which a snake is coiled. K. Korber and A. von Domaszewski suppose that this 
goddess is Rosmerta, the Gallic partner of Mercurius (on whom see the excellent article 
by M. Thm in Roscher Lex: AZyth. iv. 2og—225). E. Maass in the Jahresh. d. oest. arch. 
Inst. 1907 x. 87—90 wants to call her Emporia as goddess of the local mart: but his 
arguments are unconvincing. A. Oxé in the Aainzer Zeitschrift 1912 vii. 28 ff., followed 
by E. Strong in the fev. arch. 1913 ii. 324, makes her out to be Salus, the Romanized 
Hygieia, whose presence was required by the fvo salute Neronis of the inscription (supra 
p: 93 n- 6). J. Zingerle in the Jahvesh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1907 x. 338 n. 29, M. Ihm in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 220ff., S. Reinach in the Rev. arch. 1913 i. 25 revert to the 
name Rosmerta. Reinach 2d. 1913 ii. 333f. further identifies Rosmerta with Maia as the 
mother of Mercurius. : 


The Column of Mayence 95 


and Minerva bringing the year to a prosperous close with Fortuna 
conceived as her second self. The front. and back of the lower 
plinth show Iupiter and Hercules? standing between acanthus- 
pilasters, which are adorned with flowers, grapes, squirrels, etc. 
and topped by four male heads or masks—two Satyroi with pointed 
ears on the side of Iupiter, two Silenoi wreathed with ivy and vine 
on that of Hercules’. The upper plinth displays Apollo flanked by 

1 Minerva, wearing sleeved chi/én, himdation, aigis, and helmet with reclining griffin . 
as crest-support, drops a pinch of incense from her right hand into a small brazier set 
upon a stone base: her owl is visible beneath her left hand. Fortuna, draped in a sleeve- 
less chitén, which has slipped from her right shoulder, and a hzmdtzon, has a stephane in 


her hair, holds the tiller of a steering-paddle in her right hand, and carries a goat’s horn 
as cornu copiae over her left shoulder. 

F. Hertlein Die /uppitergigantensdulen Stuttgart 1910 p. 156 notes that Fortuna 
appears as representative of the winter on V7ergodttersteine from Kreuznach (¢. pp. 109, 
126, 131) and Heinzenhausen (zd. pp. 109, 122, 126). Moreover, he is able to cite an altar 





Fig. 54. 
found at Mayence in 1832, which is dedicated [/.] 0. mz. | [Zvc]nonz Reginae | [For]tunae 
Minervae | ... (Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 6728): this implies a close association, though 
hardly an actual identification, of Fortuna with Minerva (cp. Corf. izscr. Lat. ix no. 4674 
Reate Jovz 0. m. Minervae Fortunae Hercul2). 

2 For Iupiter and Hercules as obverse and reverse of the same monument cp. a lime- 
stone figure found in 1885 on the Petersberg near Treves (F. Hettner Dze rimdschen 
Steindenkmiler des Provinzialmuseums zu Trier Trier 1893 p. 12f. no. 21 fig. =my 
fig. 54). Iupiter in Az#d/zow and sandals, with his eagle on a globe beside him, is seated 
on a throne, the back of which forms a floral frame filled by a standing Hercules with 
lion-skin and club, bow and quiver. It was perhaps felt that Hercules was the heroic 
counterpart of Iupiter: Donar at least was equated first with the former and then with 
the latter (supra p. 63 n. 1). A Gallic Iupiter approximating in type to Hercules has 
been figured szpra i. 288 fig. 208. 

3 These Dionysiac heads together with the vegetable and animal decoration of the 
pilasters recall the vine-leaf shafts of Neuenheim and Les Fontaines (swfra p. 71 n. 7). 


96 The Column of Mayence 


Castor and Pollux, all three being sons of Iupiter who in various 
ways inherited their father’s light-giving prerogative. The shaft of 
the column is covered with five zones of deities arranged as in the 
following table : 






























































Z IVNO in 
: una Sol 
= Regina 
= l 
© | Genius Neronis ean Bacchus | Lar 
= 
= Pax Iuno Sancta VESTA VENVS 
gq 
ie} . 
a CERES Honos VOLCANVS Virtus 
<x 
= Victoria MARS DIANA NEPTVNVS 
fe — 
Be ld 
a Zi Inscription Castor APOLLO Pollux 
Pe 
ae 
tes MERCVRIVS MINERVA 
24 IVPITER and Hercules and 
g . Maia(?) Fortuna 











FRONT LEFT SIDE BACK RIGHT SIDE 


Immediately below the bronze statue of Iupiter Best and 
Greatest is his consort Iuno the Queen’, standing sceptre in hand 
between the chariots of Sol and Luna. Next in order of dignity 
comes Nero, to whom the second drum is devoted. As a Genius? 
with portrait features, veiled and sacrificing, he is flanked by the 
imperial Lares. He is further brought into connexion with Bacchus, 
possibly as being himself a Véos Dzénysos*. To interpret the three 


1 Supra p. 87 n.3. Numerous inscriptions found at Mayence associate Iupiter Optzms 
Maximus with Iuno Regina (Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii nos. 6713—6728). 

* Local inscriptions repeatedly link the names of Iupiter Opéz7us Maximus or Iuno 
Regina or both with that of the Genius (Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii nos. 6696 Iunoni Reg. 
et | Genio loci, 6710 I. o. m. et Genio, 6711 I. 0. m. | et Genio | benemel|renti, 6712 
I. o. m. | et Genio loci, 6726 I. o. m. [Iun. Reg.] | et Ge[nio], 6730 I. o. m. | Sucaelo 
et | Gen. loci), whose cult survived in the Gallo-Germanic region till the seventh century 
(see E. Maass in the Jahresh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1907 x. 109 f.). 

% So Mrs Strong in the Rev. Arch. 1913 1. 327: ‘ Nor does it seem fanciful to suppose 
that Zzber appears on the same drum as Nero, in compliment to the Emperor not averse 
doubtless to seeing himself alluded to as the véos Acévuaos.’ This title was actually assumed 
by Mithradates vi Eupator, king of Pontos 120o—63 B.c. (Poseidonios frag. 41 (Frag. hist. 
Gr. iii. 266 ff. Miiller) ag. Athen. 212 D, cp. Cic. Aro Flacco 60, Dittenberger Orient. 
Gr. inscr. sel. no. 370, 1, W. Wroth in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Pontus, etc. p. xxv, 
G. F. Hill Historical Greek Coins London 1906 p. 162 f.), Ptolemy xiii Auletes, king of 
Egypt 80—§1 B.c. (Dittenberger Orient. Gr. znscr. sel. no. 186, 8 f., no. 187, 2, no. 191, 
1f., no. 193, 9, no. 741, 1f. with notes on no. 182, 1, B. P. Grenfell and A. S. Hunt 
The Oxyrhynchus Papyri London 1899 ii. 139 f. no. 2364, 1, B. P. Grenfell—A. S. Hunt 
—D. G. Hogarth Faytim Towns and their Papyri London 1900 p. 304 no. 236, Porphyrios 


The Column of Mayence 97 


lower drums aright, we must view them from the front, bearing in 


ap. Euseb. chron. 1. 22.6 (p. 120 ed. A. Mai—J. Zohrab), cp. Loukian. de calumn. 16, 
supra i. 709 n. 1), M. Antonius the “@zumuir (Vell. Pat. 2. 82. 4, cp. Sokrates of 
Rhodes frag. 1 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 326 Miiller) ap. Athen. 148C, Eustath. 7 //. p. 776, 
30f.), Caligula (Philon de /egat. ad Caz. 12, Athen. 148 D, Eustath. 7 //. p. 776, 29f-), 
and probably Hadrian (E. L. Hicks 7he Collection of Ancient Greek Inscriptions in the 
British Museum Oxford 1890 iii. 2. 161 no. 600, 46). Demetrios Poliorketes too had 
posed as Dionysos (Plout. v. Demetr. 2), as had Antiochos vi, son of Alexandros i Balas 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Seleucid Kings of Syria p. 63 ff. pl. 19, 1—3, 5—14, Hunter Cat. 
Coins iii. 72 ff. pl. 68, 2—10, Head Ast. num.” p. 766f. fig. 337) ; and in later times 
Antinoos (szpra i. 714 n. 6, cp. Brét. Mus. Cat. Coins Lycaonia, etc. pp. lxxxix, 189 
NEQIAKXO on a copper of Tarsos) and: various scions of the imperial house (supra i. 
714 f.) were represented as Dionysos incarnate. That Nero claimed to be Dionysos is not, 
I think, recorded by any ancient authority: but his worship, like that of other emperors 
(see W. Quandt De Baccho ab Alexandri aetate in Asia Minore culto Halis Saxonum 
1913 p. 275), might be associated with the worship of Dionysos (¢.g. Corp. inser. 
Att. iii. ¢ no. 158 [Acovdow ’EN]evOepret 
kat [Népwve] Kvavdiw Kaicape Le[Baor@ 
Tepmavex x.t.X. ]), and he takes on occasion 
the dle of Zeus Aleuthérios (fig. 55 is a 
copper of Sikyon (this attribution was first 
made by F. Imhoof-Blumer in the Revue 
suisse de numismatique 1896 vi. 240, 
1897 vii. 40, cp. R. Miinsterberg in the 
Num. Zeitschr. 1gtt iv. 122) from my col- 
lection: obv. NE-KAI- SE YC-€AEYOEPIOC: head of Nero to right; rev. 
ETTIP (atov) - lOY(Atov) TTOAYAINOY - AA (for duavdpixo6 ?) Cl (kvwviwy) emperor 
on horseback to left. So Zuscr. Gr. sept. i no. 2713, 41, 49, 51f.=Dittenberger Sy/. 
inscr. Gr.2 no. 376, 41 Akraiphia [Népwr] Zeds ’ENevOépios, 49 Avi ’EXevdepiw [Népwr|c, 
51 f. [Népwvos] Acds | "EXevdeplov, cp. Corp. imscr. Adt. iii. 1 no. 1085, 3f. Similarly 
Theophanes, the friend of Cn. Pompeius Magnus, in /zscr. Gr. tvs. ii no. 1636, 1 ff. 
Mytilene [@]éw A[éi "HAevde]|piw Pirordrprde | Ocopavyn 7G od!rypr Kal evepyé|ra Kal xriora 
dev\répw Tas mazrpidos=C. T. Newton The Collection of Ancient Greek Inscriptions in the 
British Museum Oxford 1883 ii. 47 f. no. 211 =Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Inschr. i. 373 
no. 17208=Dittenberger Syl/. zzscr. Gr.2 no. 339. Augustus in Corp. cuscr. Gr. iii 
no. 4715, 1 Denderah brép a’roxpdropos Kaicapos, Beot viod, Aws ’EXevGeplov LeBacrod 
«.7-. = Dittenberger Orient. Gr. inser. sel. no. 659, 1, S. dé Ricci in the Archiv fiir 
Papyrusforschung und verwandte Gebiete 1903 il. 431 no. 8 Kaloapa airoxpdropa Oeod 
vidv Ala *E[Aev]Oéprov LeBaordv, Corp. inscr. Gr. iii no. 4923, 1 ff. Philai Kaloape rovro- 
médovTe Kai ameipwy Kpatéovte | Lavi, rau éx Lavos matpds, HAevdepiw, | dearérar Hipwras 
Te kal “Agidos, dorpux amdoas | ‘EX\dbos, (ds) cwr(y)p Zed(s) av(é)r(ex)Ale] péyas, «.7-d. 
=Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 1. 159. 1 ff., Znscr. Gr. ims. ii no. 156 Mytilene avro- 
kpdropt | Kaloape De\Bacrd | ’EXe[v|Pepiw], G. Cousin and G. Deschamps in the Azz/?, 
’ Corr. Hell. 1887 xi. 306 ff. no. 1, 5 ff. Kys in Karia ’"Eparopdvns Xapetvovu ‘Pddtos 6 éverrws 
arepalynpopos Kal iepeds ToU Beot LeBaorot Kal apxnyérou | THs moNews Ards ’ENevdepiov, 
cp. Corp. inscr. Gr, ii Add. no. 29037 Alabanda ’AméAXwvos | ’EXevBeplov LeBacrod 
=Dittenberger Ovzent. Gr. inscr. sel. no. 457- Domitian in Corp. inscr. Att. iii. 1 
no. rogi, 1 ff. é[t] avroxpdropos Kaio[a]pos, deot | Oveoralc|iavod viod, Aoperavo[t 
LeBacrod | Tepuavixod Ads ’EXevbepiov [dpxolytos, | x.7.\., Fouclles de Delphes iii. 2 
no. 65, 1 ff. [E|mi alvjroxparopo[s] Kaicapo[s LeBlacrod Afolu|ircavod Tepuarvixod Ards 
’"EdevOe[p]iou &pxovro[s | élv ’AOjvars x.7.X. Hadrian in /zscr. Gr. ins. ii nos. 183, 185, 
191—198, 214 a series of votive inscriptions from Mytilene, of which one will serve— 
185 avroxpdropt | Kaicape Tpaaly ‘Adprav® Le\Bacr@ ’HXevdlepiw ’OAvpriw | owrhpe Kai 
xtla|\rn xaptoryprov, G. G. Tocilescu ‘Neue Inschriften aus Ruminien’ in the 47ch.-ep. 





Fig. 55. 


Cait: 5) 


98 The Column of Mayence 


mind that, just as Iuno Regizza stands between Sol and Luna, or 
the Genius Neronis between the Lares, so each figure beneath Nero 
is flanked by two appropriate supporters. Read downwards the 
column will speak for itself: Iupiter, Iuno, Nero, Pax}, Ceres?, 
Victoria. The mere names convey their message: ‘Under the 
blessing of Iupiter and Iuno, Nero has brought Peace and 
Plenty in the train of Victory. The side-figures emphasise and 
enhance this gracious announcement. Peace with olive-branch and 
caduceus is attended by the civic virtues of Sanctity and Love, who 
appear in august yet popular form as Iuno Saucta* and Venus 


Mitth. 1896 xix. 97 no. 45 Constantza avroxpd[ro]|pe Kaicape [..|...vO LeBalo]|7a 
Ene(v) Lept]|o ’Odupr[iw | clwrjpe | [xa]porylpeol, Corp. zuscr. Alt. iii. 1 no. 492 
[Zlavo[s | "E]}\evGepifov ?] | [Ge00 Tpacavod vidy, Geo ?] Népova v[iwvdy? | Tpacavo]y ‘Adprar| oy 
YeBaordv?]. Antoninus Pius in archaising inscriptions from Sparta etc. quoted z2fra 
p- tor n. 1), Apollon (4rzt. AZus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 62 pl. 13, 4, Head 
Hist. num. p. 314 coppers of Apollonia Illyrici with obv. NEPQNI ATTOAAWN|I 
KTICTH Nero to right, in long chitén and chlamjs, playing lyre, cp. Morell. Zhes. Mum. 
Imp. Rom. ii. 125 pl. 14, 21f. obv. NEPOQ.NI ATTOAAQNI Nero to right, in long 
chitén and chlamys, playing lyre, 2d. ii. 124 f. pl. 14, 19 f. rev. NEPOLN ATTOAAQ.N 
head of Nero to right; J. J. Bernoulli Romzsche Lkonographie Berlin und Stuttgart 1886 
li. T. 390, 392, 4t1f., Amelung Sculpt. Vatic. ii. 478 f. no. 277 pl. 63, W. Helbig Aiihrer 
durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in Rom* Leipzig 1912 i. 142 
no. 215. See further Dion Cass. 61. 20 6 kadds Kaioap, 6 “Amé\\wv, 6 At-youaTos, els ws 
IlvOos, 63. 20 Népwu 7@ ’AméANwHL, Cp. Suet. er. 53), Herakles (Dion Cass. 63. 20 
Népwrt 7@ ‘Hpaxde?, cp. Suet. Wer. 53), Helios (Zzscr. Gr. sept. i no. 2713, 31 ff.= Ditten- 
berger Syl/. inscr. Gr.? no. 376, 31 ff. Akraiphia 6 rod wavrds kéomou Kipros Népwr... | véos 
“HXwos émudduyas tots” EA\now, cp. Suet. Wer. 53), and the Agathos Daimon (4772. Mus. 
Cat. Coins Alexandria etc. p. 20f. pl. 26, 171, Henter Cat. Corrs iii. 413, Head Hies¢. 
num.” p. 863 billon coins of Alexandreia with rev. NEO-ATAO-AAIM Agathos 
Daimon as a snake wearing skken¢ and holding in its coils poppy-heads and corn-ears. 
Cp. Corp. inscr. Gr. iii no. 4699, 2 ff. =Dittenberger Orient. Gr. inser. sel. no. 666, 2 ff. 
Gizeh [Népwr] KvXavéios Kaioap SeBaoros | Tepwavixds adroxpdtwp, 6 dyads daimwv Tis | 
olkouuévns). Lnfra § 3 (a) iii (Wp). 

1 This identification i$ made by Mrs Strong in the Rev. Arch. 1913 il. 324. Others 
had conjectured Maia (A. von Domaszewski), Rosmerta (S. Reinach), Libera? (A. Oxé), 
Felicitas (Quilling). y 

2 So named by K. Korber, Quilling, and E. Neeb. A. von Domaszewski, A. Oxé, 
and S. Reinach call this figure Pax. Mrs Strong in the Rev. Arch. 1913 il. 326 proposes 
the name Tellus on the ground that Ceres must be recognised elsewhere. But that ground, 
as we shall see (27z/ra n. 3), is fallacious. 

3 A. von Domaszewski fancies that this goddess is Persephone. A. Oxé dubs her ~ 
Gallia Aquitanica, the province being famous for its trade in leather! Quilling no less 
absurdly conjectures a Parca /ta/a standing on the head of a w7telws! S. Reinach in the 
Rev. Arch. 1913 i. 29 says Ceres because (2) room must be found for Ceres somewhere, 
(4) she holds an object which may be a double torch, (c) a statuette in the British Museum, 
figured by S. Lysons An account of Roman Antiquities discovered at Woodchester in the 
county of Gloucester London 1797 p. 10 pls. 38 and 39 (Diana Lzcz/era), represents Ceres 
with her foot on the head of an ox. But (a) Ceres is more probably the goddess with 
corn-ears (sz¢va n. 2), (6) Reinach’s Ceres is holding no torch, but a sceptre in her left hand, 
a patera in her right (see Mrs Strong in the Rev. Arch. 1913 ii. 323 n. 1), (c) the marble 
statuette from Woodchester was labelled Luna by Sir A. W. Franks, presumably because the 


The Column of Mayence 99 


Verticordia’, the former with sceptre and fazera setting her foot on 
a cow’s head, the latter holding the scales of justice. Plenty, 
typified by Ceres with fatera and corn-topped sceptre, is com- 
panioned by a pair of more martial virtues—Honour grasping a 
sheathed sword and a suit of captured armour, Prowess proudly 
displaying her banner”. Below these in turn is Victory, who having 
won her triumphs by land and sea stands with her palm-branch 
midway between Mars and Neptunus. The back of the column was 
designed with equal care. Diana figures next to her brother Apollo. 
Above her come two other deities closely associated in Gallic in- 
scriptions*—Volcanus and Vesta‘. Volcanus is aptly placed between 


flame of a torch is visible against her right shoulder. But it is more likely that she is 
Iuno Sancta, the consort of Iupiter Dolichenus (supra i. 610 f.). The fragment of a 
triangular bronze plate, originally gilded, which was found at Aalen, shows this goddess 
standing on her cow (supra i. 619, O. von Sarwey—E. Fabricius Der obergermanisch- 
raetische Limes des Roemerreiches Lieferung xxiii no. 66 Heidelberg 1904 p. 15 f. with fig.). 

! K. Ko6rber saw in this figure Iustitia; A. von Domaszewski, Aequitas. A. Oxé 
took her to be Gallia Lugudunensis, the scales symbolising her trade and her mint. 
Quilling surmised a Parca Gallica for the same reason. S. Reinach in the Rev. Arch. 
1913 1. 29f. first showed that she is Venus Vertécordia by comparing the dexariz of the 
gens Cordia, on which Venus appears as here with a sceptre in her left hand and the 
scales in her right (Babelon Monz. rép. rom. i. 383 nos. rf. fig., Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. 
Coiws Rep. i. 523f. pl. 51, 11 f.). Scales are an attribute that has come to Venus as 
mistress of hearts from the great mythological type of the ~vyooracia (on which see 
O. Crusius in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1143 f., R. Holland 26. ii. 2674 ff., O. Waser 2d. iii. 
3224 ff., F. Studniczka in the Jahrb. d. kats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 191i xxvi. 131 ff.), itself 
based ultimately on a religious conception of the Otherworld (Gruppe Gr. AZyih. Rel. 
pp- 681 n. 6, 863, Sir G. Maspero Zhe Dawn of Civilization* London rgot p. 1gof., 
A. Erman A Handbook of Egyptian Religion trans. A. S. Griffith London 1907 pp. 102, 
230, A. Jeremias Handbuch der altorientalischen Geisteskultur Leipzig 1913 p. 113 f.). 
It is, however, probable that in imperial times Venus with the scales was regarded as a 
goddess meting out just measures like Aequitas or Iustitia or Moneta, who on Roman 
coins often have scales and cornu copiae, sceptre and fatera, etc. (Aequitas: E. Aust in 
Pauly—Wissowa feal-Enc. i. 604 f., Rasche Lex. Num. i. 135 ff., Suppl. i. 282 ff. 
Iustitia : Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins p. 499, Rasche Lex. Num. iv. 
1243 ff., Suppl. iii. 287 f. Moneta: H. W. Stoll and W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. AZyth. 
ii. 3200 f., Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins p. 560f., Rasche Lex. Mus. v. 
786—832). So, after all, K. Kérber and A. von Domaszewski were not far wrong. 

2 The only dissentient is Quilling, who holds that these figures stand for Roma deleta 
and Roma restituta—a queer notion. 

3 Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 1676 Lyon, an Siiihed dedicated Marti Vestae Volkano, 
no. 2940= Dessau /uscr. Lat. sel. no. 7050 Sens, the site of Agedincum Senonum, a 
stylobates dedicated by the same persons to Mart. Volk. et deae sancti[s|s. Vestae. On 
Vesta as paired with Volcanus see further Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rom.” p. 231. 

4 A. von Domaszewski makes this goddess Demeter to suit his neighbouring Per- 
sephone. A. Oxé completes his “ves Gad/iae by interpreting her as Gallia Belgica, famous 
for its horse-breeding, chariot-making, etc.; Quilling, his ¢ves Parcae by inventing a 
Parca Germana to serve as one of the Norns with her horse! There was more to be said 
(pace Mrs Strong) for the Epona of K. Korber. But I do not doubt that S. Reinach was 
right to insist in the Rev. Arch. 1913 i. 29 that the disputed figure is simply Vesta with 
her ass (on which see G. Wissowa Gesammelte Abhandlungen zur rimischen Religtons- 


' 7—2 


100 Commemorative Columns 


Honour and Prowess, for whom he forges the weapons of war. And 
Vesta is next to Venus, whose scales commemorate the penalty 
meted out to unfaithful Vestals!. Moreover, it will be observed that 
the back of this column is no less eloquent than the front. Vesta, 
Volcanus, Diana, Apollo—what are these but domestic and 
elemental fire, moonshine and sunshine, fit denizens for a veritable 
‘pillar of light’? Indeed, S. Reinach? points out that on the column 
as a whole all the twelve deities recognised by Ennius? find a place, 
dominated by the flashing figure of the sky-god. Our thoughts 
travel back to Platon, in whose cosmic scheme ‘Zeus, the great 
chieftain in heaven,’ followed by ‘a host of gods and inferior deities,’ 
comes ‘by an uphill path to the summit of the heavenly vault,’ 
thereby arriving at the apex of that ‘straight light like a pillar’ 
which stretches along the axis of the universe‘. 


(7) Commemorative Columns. 


The earlier type of ‘Jupiter-column’ was not without its influ- 
ence on the great commemorative pillars of Rome and Constanti- 
nople. These masterpieces of columnar art were indeed no longer 
dedicated to the sky-god. But it must be remembered that latterly 
the emperor had stepped into the sky-god’s shoes’. Trajan® and 


und Stadtgeschichte Miinchen 1904 p. 67 ff., zd. Rel. Kult. Rim.” p. 158, W. Warde 
Fowler The Roman Festivals London 1911 p. 148, Journ. Hell. Stud. 1894 xiv. 92). 

1 Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rim.” p. 290. 

* S. Reinach in the Rev. Arch. 1913 i. 29. 

3 Ennius frag. 79 Baehrens ap. Ap. de deo Socr. 2 and Mart. Cap. 42 Iuno Vesta 
Minerva Ceres Diana Venus Mars | Mercurius Iovis Neptunus Volcanus Apollo. 

A. von Domaszewski ‘ Die Iuppitersiule in Mainz’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1906 ix. 
303—311 supposes that the column of Mogontiacum was a copy of one at Massilia erected 
between 17 and 128.c. He would recognise on it the twelve deities of the Massiliotes, 
wiz. Zeus, Athena, Herakles, Hera, Apollon, Poseidon, Artemis, Ares, Hephaistos, 
Demeter, Persephone, Dionysos. This whimsical idea is brushed aside by E. Maass in 
the Jahresh. d. vest. arch. Inst. 1907 x. 85 and need not detain us 

4 Supra pp. 43—45. 

> Folk- Love 1905 xvi. 308 ff. 

8 Corp. inser. Gr. i no. 1213=Lnscr. Gr. Pelop. i no. 701 (cited infra Append. N 
med.) speaks of Trajan as Zeus “EuBarjpuos—a god to 
whom vows would be made by travellers going on board 
their vessel. Cov. inscr. Lat. xi no. 1147= Wilmanns £x. 
tmscr. Lat. no. 2845=Dessau Lascr. Lat. sel. no. 6675 a 
tabula alimentaria from Veleia ex indulgentia Optimi 
Maximique principis imp. Caes. Nervae | Traiani Aug. 
Germanice Dacict applies to Trajan the cult-epithet of 
Iupiter Optimus Maximus, and numerous inscriptions in- 
clude Optimus among the emperor’s titles (Dessau Z7scr. 
Lat. sel. ili. 1. 274 Index), e.g. the dedication of the arch 
at Beneventum (on which see izfra Append. N med.). 
Greek inscriptions render this Optimus by “Apioros (Ditten- 
berger Orient. Gr. inscr. sel. no. 677, 1 f. brép ris Tod Kuplov AvToKpdropos Katoapos 





Fig. 56. 


Commemorative Columns IOI 


Antoninus Pius! were definitely dubbed Zeus and honoured with 


Népova | Tpatavod ’Apicrov LeBacrod Tepuarckod Aaxcxod réxns, 7b. 4 f., cp. Corp. inser. 
Gr. ino. 1306, 2, ii nos. 1801, 7, 2178, 3, 2572, 3, 2634, 2, 2707, 2, ili nos. 4843, 2, 4948, 
2, Add. 4443 ¢, 2). 

Copper coins of Selinous (Traianopolis) in Kilikia, struck by Septimius Severus and 
Severus Alexander, show Trajan as Zeus enthroned in a tetrastyle temple with thunder- 
bolt and sceptre (Brzt. AZus. Cat. Coins Lycaonia, etc. p. 143 pl. 24, g=my fig. 56, 
Anson Mum. Gr. v. 43 no. 294). 

1 Many altars, bases, and s¢é/az found at Sparta are inscribed Zavi’ EXevOepiou’ Avrwvelvor 
(less often ’Avrwvivor) Dwrhpe (Luscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. i nos. 407—444, M. N. Tod and 
A. J. B. Wace A Catalogue of the Sparta Museum Oxford 1906 p. 24, Collitz—Bechtel 
Gr. Dial.-Inschr. iii. 2. 37 f. nos. 4492 f.). One dedication shows the slightly extended 
formula [Z]avi | “EXevOelploe cal "ONvumiloe “Avtwvei|vo. LwrAlpe (Laser. Gr. Arc. Lac. 
Mess. i no. 445, M. N. Tod and A. J. B. Wace of. cét. p. 45 no. 230, Collitz—Bechtel Gr. 
Dial.-Inschr. iii. 2. 38 no. 4494), and another, found at Athens, read Zavt | [E)\evde|[p |éo 
*Avrolvivor Sw\rjpe “O[Av|urlow? supplevi] (Corp. znscr. Gr. i no. 350) or 6 [Ojos o 
Aaxedatuovier 2] (Corp. inscr. Att. iii. 1 no. 527). These archaising inscriptions were 
apparently intended to be hexametrical. They are normally accompanied by the repre- 
sentation of a wreath and two palm-branches. A base found at Kyaneai ( Yarvoo) in Lykia 
is dedicated Ge Meyd\w"Ape kal EXevdep <i>a | Apynyéride Emipave? OeG cal Au | Adro- 
kpdrope Kaloape Tirw AiNw Aldprav@’ Avtwreivw LeBaorG Hv|ceBet w(arpl) w(arpidos) (Corp. 
inscr. Gr. iii Add. no. 4303 21). Again, Antoninus Pius, like Trajan (supra p. 100 n. 6), 
bears the titles of Iupiter Optimus Maximus (Corp. inscr. Lat. xi no. 5632=Orelli /rscr. 
Lat. sel. no. 804= Dessau /nscr, Lat. sel. no. 2735 from Camerinum oftzmi maximique 
imp. Anto|nint Aug. Pit, Orelli—Henzen Jnscr. Lat. sel. no. 7170= Wilmanns Lx. zzscr. 
Lat. no. 692 a=Dessau Lrscr. Lat. sel. no. 2666 a from Tuficum 
ab optimo | maximogue principe Antonino Aug(usto) Pio, Corp. 
imscr. Lat, xi no. 1924== Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 5503 from 
Perusia divo Antonino | Pio |... ... optimo maxinog. princ., cp. 
Corp. inscr.. Lat. v no. 532 i ro=Wilmanns £x. znscr. Lat. 
no. 693, 1o= Dessau Jnscr. Lat. sel. no. 6680 i 10 from Tergeste 
apu(t) optimum principem Antoninum Aug. Piunt). 

Copper coins of Tarsos represent Antoninus Pius enthroned 
as Zeus: he wears a himdtion wrapped about his legs and holds 
a wreath-bearing Nike in his right hand, a sceptre in his left 
(fig. 57 = Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lycaonia, etc. p. 190 no. 160, cp. Rasche Lex. Mum. ix. 
580). Bronze medallions of Antoninus Pius have oby. DIVVS ANTONINVS head of 








Fig. 58. 


emperor to right, rev. CONSECRATIO emperor, with Aimdtion wrapped about legs and 
sceptre in right hand, borne aloft on the back of an eagle away from a reclining male figure 


102 Commemorative Columns 


(Gnecchi JZedag?. Rom. ii. 10 no. 6 pl. 43, 5, Frohner AZéd. emp. rom. p. 73f. fig. 
(=my fig. 58), Cohen Monn. emp. rom.? ii. 287 no. 153 fig., Stevenson—Smith—Madden 
Dict. Rom. Coins p. 248 fig.) : it seems probable that here too the divinised emperor is 
assimilated to the sky-god (Frohner Zoc. cz¢.), though this is certainly not proved by the 
presence of the eagle as carrier; indeed the late motif of Zeus seated or recumbent on an 
eagle, which occurs on coins of Alexandreia (Bvit. Mus. Cat. Coins Alexandria p. 48 
no. 397 and 398 (=my fig. 59) Trajan pl. 1, unter Cat. Coins iii. 433 no. 241 Trajan, 
Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 264, 602 Miinztaf. 3, 30; Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins 
Alexandria p. 80 nos. 673—675 (=my fig. 60) Hadrian, Muster Cat. Coins iii. 447 
no. 332 Hadrian ; 4rzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Alexandria p. 118 no. 1014 (=my fig. 61) and 





1015 Antoninus Pius pl. 1, Antler Cat. Coins iii. 470 no. 471 Antoninus Pius; vz. 
Mus. Cat. Coins Alexandria p. 221 no. 1724 (=my fig. 62) Iulia Mamaea; 20. p. 227 
no. 1768 (=my fig. 63) and 1769 Maximinus, Hunter Cat. Coins iii. 504 no. 713 
Maximinus; 20. iil. 522 no. 867 Philippus Iunior), in the stucco relief of a vaulted tomb 
on the Via Latina (E. Petersen in the Az. d. Just. 1861 xxxill. 203 f., Mon. d. Inst. 
vi—vii pl. 49), and elsewhere (sufra i. 754 n. 2, Furtwangler Geschndtt. Steine Berlin 
p- 121 no. 2609 pl. 23, 20. p. 150 no. 3445 f. pl. 28, 26. p. 246 no. 6715 pl. 48, 2d. p. 299 
no. 8154 pl. 59, Brit. Mus. Cat. Gems p. gt no. 581, Brit. Mus. Cat. Lamps p. 95 f. 
no. 629f., p. 113 no. 751 fig. 138, p. 121 no. 804, p. 124 nos. 824 fig. 149, 825, p. 142 
nO. 942, p. 156 nos. 1046, 1047, 1048 pl. 31, 1049 (cp. my fig. 64 from a fine specimen in 
the Lewis collection—diam. 4% ins.—photographed by Mr W. H. Hayles), p. 203 no. 1357: 
see further Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 263—266, Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke 
Ant. Denkm. i. 45f. pl. 4, 6), is itself presumably derived from the consecratio-type (K. Sittl 
Der Adler und die Welthugel als Attribute des Zeus (Besonderer Abdruck aus dem 
vierzehnten Supplementbande der Jahrbiicher fiir classische Philologie) Leipzig 1884 
p- 37f., L. Deubner ‘Die Apotheose des Antoninus Pius’ in the Rém. Mitth. 1912 xxvii. 
1—20 figs. 1—4. See further an interesting chapter in F. Cumont Ztudes Syriennes Paris 


Commemorative Columns 103 


1917 pp- 33—118 (‘L’aigle funéraire d’Hiérapolis et l’apothéose des empereurs’)). The 
reverse design of the medallions of Antoninus Pius is best explained by comparison with 
the southern or principal relief on the marble base of his column, now in the apse 
of the Giardino della Pigna at the Vatican (Amelung Scz/pt. Vatic. i. 883 ff. no. 223 
pls. 116 (=my fig. 65)—118, W. Helbig Fiihrer durch die offentlichen Sammlungen 





Fig. 64. 


hlassischer Altertiimer in Rom Leipzig 1912 i. 74f. no. 123, Mrs A. Strong Roman 
Sculpture from Augustus to Constantine London 1907 p. 270ft. pl. 82, Reinach 
kép. Reliefs i. 291 f.). This relief represents the Dea Roma seated on the right, the 
personified Campus Martius reclining on the left: the former uplifts her right hand in 
greeting, the latter clasps with his left the obelisk of Augustus (Plin. saz. A7st. 36. 72) ; 
between them is a pile of weapons. Soaring up into the air is a youthful gezazs, who in 
his left hand bears a globe marked with zodiac (Pisces, Aries, Taurus), moon, and stars, 
and a snake resting upon it. Above his broad wings are seen the half-length figures of 
Antoninus Pius with eagle-sceptre and Faustina Senior with veil, crown, and sceptre. 
Flanked by a pair of eagles, the emperor and his wife are probably conceived as the new 
rivals of Iupiter and Iuno (R. Foerster Dre Hochzeit des Zeus und der Hera (Winckel- 
mannsfest-Progr. Breslau 1867) p. 34 0. 5). 

In the Hope collection at Deepdene was a fine statue of Zeus, erect with an eagle 
beside him, in Thasian marble, transformed into Antoninus Pius by the addition of 
a modern head and neck (A. Michaelis Ancient Marbles in Great Britain trans. C. A. M. 
Fennell Cambridge 1882 p. 282 no. 5, Hope Sale Catalogue London 1917 p. 42 no. 253). 


104 Commemorative Columns 


the titles of Iupiter. Marcus Aurelius’, too wise to ape divinity, was 


SS RRR IRR DAIINRRR 8 


+ 


WES 


7 
#4 
4 
Fe 
o 
Ge 
wt 
Ai 
g 
# 
-* 
y 


¢ 


. 


ED TERA 





1 Bronze medallions struck in the year 168 A.D. have as their reverse type a colossal 
Iupiter, with thunderbolt and sceptre, protecting beneath his spread cloak the diminutive 
figures of Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus (Gnecchi AZedag/. Rom. ii. 33 no. 52f. pl. 63, 
3f., Frohner A/éd. emp. rom. p. orf. figs., Brit. Mus. Cat. Medallions p. 14 no. 10 
pl. 21, r, Cohen Monn. emp. rom. iii. 87 no. 886 f. fig.): cp. supra i. 276 n. 5 fig. 201. 


Fig. 65. 


Commemorative Columns IO5 


recognised at least as the protégé of Iupiter and the imitator of Zeus. 
Even the late Roman emperors inherited the same tradition and 
viewed themselves as the viceroys of Iupiter Capztolinus'. Hence the 
comparison of the Germanic with the classical column is not far- 
fetched or unreal. The smooth variety of the former supporting the 
figure of Iupiter Optimus Maximus* may fairly be regarded as analo- 
gous to the column of Antoninus Pius’*,a plain granite shaft, on which 
stood the divinised emperor, optzmus maximusque princeps*, holding 
—if coins can be trusted—the eagle and sceptre (figs. 66—67)° of 





Fig. 66. Fig. 67. 
Iupiter. Again, monuments like that of Mogontiacum® showed the 
possibilities of columnar relief and furnished a starting-point for yet 
more ambitious efforts, the columns of Trajan (figs. 68—69)? and 


Ioul. symp. 333 B ff. describes Marcus Aurelius as an imitator of tlie gods, who acted 
kara piunow rod weyictou Acés (334 D) and was fain to follow the lead of both Zeus and 
Kronos (335 D). He too is optimus (Corp. inser. Lat. xiv no. 4003=Orelli Zuscr. Lat. 
sel. no. 3364= Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 6225 Ficulea) and maximus (Corp. inscr. Lat. 
xi no. 5635=Orelli Zzscr. Lat. sel. no. 2172 = Wilmanns Ex. zzscr. Lat. no. 2104 = Dessau 
Lnscr. Lat. sel. no. 6640 Camerinum). 

1 Supra i. 46f. 2 Supra p. 89 f. 

3 Supra p. 103 n. 4 Supra p. 101 Nn. 1. 

5 Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” ii. 305f. nos. 353 fig.—356 describes the type as ‘la statue 
d’Antonin debout, tenant un globe et un sceptre.’ Rasche Lex. Mum. ii. 708 f. says 
‘Imperator...d. hastam gerens.’ Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins p. 235 fig. 
have ‘a colossal statue of the Zwzferator...holding a spear in his right hand.’ I illustrate 
a first brass in the British Museum (fig. 66) and another in my possession (fig. 67). 
Mr G. F. Hill, who kindly looked through all the specimens in the national collection 
for me, writes (June 19, 1915): ‘The figure on the Antonine column certainly holds an 
eagle, when it is possible to make out what he holds at all.’ 

5 Supra p. 93 ff. 

7 Corp. inscr. Lat. vi no. 960= Wilmanns Ex. znscr. Lat. no. 935= Dessau Zuscr. Lat. 
sel, no. 294, Dion Cass. 68. 16, 69. 2, curtosum urbis regionum xiv and notitia regionum 
urbis xiv reg. 8 (H. Jordan Zopographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1871 ii. 552), 
Aur. Vict. efz¢. 13. 11, Hieron. chron. ann. Abr. 2132, Amm. Marc. 16. 10. 15, mzrabilia 
Romae 16 (H. Jordan of. cit. ii. 620). The most important publications of Trajan’s column 
are W. Froehner Za Colonne Trajane Paris 1872-1874 (text and four vols. of 220 photo- 
lithographic pls.), C. Cichorius Die Reliefs der Tratansséule Berlin 1896-1900 (text and 
two vols. of 113 heliographic pls.),—both sets of plates being reproductions from the 
plaster casts taken by order of Napoleon iii in 1861-1862 A.D. Reinach 2ép. Reliefs i. 
330—369 gives in reduced form the plates of P. S. Bartoli—A. Ciaccone—G. P. Bellori 


106 Commemorative Columns 


Marcus Aurelius!, of Theodosios? and Arkadios*. Isolated zones 





Colonna Trajana Romae s. a. (1672), which are inexact but convenient. See also 
W. Froehner Za Colonne Trajane Paris 1865 pp. 1—168 with map and figs., S. Reinach 
La Colonne Trajane au musée de St. Germain Paris 1886, E. Petersen 7rajans dakische 
Kriege nach dem Siéulenrelief erzdhit i ii Leipzig 1899, 1903, Mrs A. Strong Romar 
Sculpture fron: Augustus to Constantine London 1907 pp. 166—213 pls. 51—62. Further 
bibliography in H. Kiepert et C. Huelsen Formae urbis Romae antiquae® Berolini 1912 
Pp. 72. 

Fig. 68 is from a specimen in the British Museum, on which Trajan is shown with a 
sceptre (?) in his left hand, a thunderbolt (?) in his right, and a paludamentum covering 
his back. Fig. 69 is from a specimen in my collection, which represents him with sceptre (?) 
and thunderbolt (?), but without the paludamentum. Cp. Rasche Lex. Mum. ii. 711 f., 
vili. 594 f., 1561 f., Suppl. i. 1880, Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” ii. 55 f. no. 359 fig., nos. 360f., 
ed. ib.” ii. 75 f. nos. 555—564, Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins p. 236f. fig. 

1 Corp. tnscr. Lat. vi nos. 1585@ and 15856=Wilmanns £x. inscr. Lat. no. 2840= 
Dessau user. Lat. sel. no. 5920, curtosum urbis regionum xiv and notitia regionum 
wrbis xiv reg. g (H. Jordan Tofographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1871 ii. 556), 
Aur. Vict. de Caes. 16. 13, efit. 16. 14, mirabilia Romae 16 (H. Jordan of. cit. ii. 620). 
The chief modern work on the column of Marcus Aurelius is E. Petersen—A. von 
Domaszewski—G. Calderini Die Marcus-Sdule auf Piazza Colonna in Rom Miinchen 1896 
(text and two vols. of 128 pls. photographed from the original reliefs). Reinach Rép. 
Reliefs 1. 293—329 gives in reduced form the plates of P. S. Bartoli—G. P. Bellori 
Columna Antoninziana Romae s. a. (c. 1675), which have the same merits and defects as 
in the case of the Trajanic column. See further Mrs A. Strong Roman Sculpture from 
Augustus to Constantine London 1907 pp. 270—2g1 pls. 82—89, H. Jordan—C. Huelsen 
Topographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1907 i. 3. 605—607. Bibliography in 
H. Kiepert et C. Huelsen Formae urbis Romae antiguae® Berolini 1912 p. 71. 

* Konstantinos Rhodios 202—-240 (Rev. Et. Gr. 1896 ix. 42 f.), Anonymus descriptio 
regionum urbis reg. 7 (in Hesychios of Miletos ed. Orelli p. 316), Anonymos mdrpia p. 17 
(in A. Banduri Zmperium Orientale sive Antiquitales Constantinopolitan® Parisiis 1711 
Pars tertia, Lib. i—iii, p. 17), Kodinos de stgnis Constantinopolitanis.21 D, 24 B, 24C 
(pp. 38, 42, 43 Bekker), Marcellinus Comes chvon. ann. Chr. 480 (li. 932 Migne), 
Theophanes chronogr. ann. mund. 5878, 5970, 5998 (pp- 110, 195, 229 Classen), Io. Malal. 
chron. 16 p. 401 Dindorf, Leon Grammatikos chronogr. p. 118 Bekker, Kedren. “zs¢. 
comp. 323 B (i. 566 Bekker), Niketas Choniates de rebus post captam urbem gestis p. 804f. 
Bekker, Georgios Akropolites aznal. 5 p. 11 Bekker, and the poems in later Greek de 
Syria expugnata 887 ff., Constantinopolis expugnata 343 ft. (Recueil des historiens des 
Croisades. Historiens grecs. Paris 1875 i. 618 a—c, 661). See further F. W. Unger 
Quellen der byzantinischen Kunstgeschichte Wien 1878 i. 168 ff. nos. 401—420. Modern 
monographs are E. Miintz ‘La colonne Théodosienne a Constantinople’ in the Rev. Zt. Gr. 
1888 i, 318—325 and T. Reinach ‘Colonne de Théodose’ in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1896 ix. 
74—78: cp. O. M. Dalton Byzantine Art and Archaeology Oxford 1911 pp. 123, 144. 


Commemorative Columns 107 


of decoration were by a stroke of genius transformed into a con- 
tinuous spiral*, and the colwmna cochlis was thus enabled to set 
forth in stately sequence or effective episode the deeds by which 
the immortal had won his immortality. 


‘Their subject triumphed up from man to God.’ 


This marble column was erected by Theodosios i in 386 A.D. to commemorate his successful 
campaign against the Scythians, z.e. the Greuthungi, whom he drove out of Thrace. It 
stood in the seventh region of Constantinople, on the third hill, which went by the name 
of Tauros. It supported a statue of Theodosios, which was overthrown in 480 A.D. by an 
earthquake and replaced in 506 A.D. by a colossal bronze figure of Anastasios. This in 
turn was probably destroyed in 512 A.D., the summit of the column thenceforward being 
left vacant. The column itself was demolished by the Sultan Bajazet ii (1481-1512 A.D.), 
because it hindered the construction of his magnificent Baths. Drawings of its spiral relief- 
band, made by an Italian artist (Gentile Bellini?), were published by C. F. Menestrier 
Description de la belle et grande Colonne histortée, dressée & Vhonneur de [ Empereur 
Théodose, dessinée par G. Bellin Paris 1702 with 16 pls., zd. Columna Theodosiana s.1. 
(Venice?) s.a. (1765?) with 18 pls., A. Banduri /mperium Orientale sive Antiguitates 
Constantinopolitan® Parisiis 1711 ii. 506 ff. pls. 1—18, and in reduced form by Reinach 
kép. Reliefs i. 103—111. 

® Konstantinos Rhodios 241—254 (Rev. Et. Gr. ix. 43f.), Anonymus descriptio 
regtonum urbis reg. 12 (in Hesychios of Miletos ed. Orelli p. 324), Anonymos 7arpia p. 18 
(in A. Banduri /mpertam Orientale sive Antiquitates Constantinopolitane Parisiis 17 11 Pars 
tertia, Lib. i—ii, p. 18)=Souid. s.v. Znpédopos= Kodinos de signis Constantinopolitants 
17 B—C (p. 30 Bekker), zd. 2b. 24 C (p. 43 Bekker), Anonymos dreves enarrat. chronogr. 
103 C (in Kodinos ed. Bekker p. 188), Marcellinus Comes chvoz. ann. Chr. 421 (li. 924 B—C 
Migne), Theophanes chronogr. ann. mund. 5895, 6034, 6041, 6232 (pp. 121, 345f-, 351; 
634 Classen), Theophanes continuatus 6. 21 (p. 411 f. Bekker), Chron. Paschale i. 579 
Dindorf, Leon Grammatikos chronogr. p. 104 f. Bekker, Kedren. ist. comp. 323 C, 3748 
(i. 567, 656 Bekker), Michael Glykas anal. 258 A (p. 478 Bekker), Ioelos chronagr. comp. 
170C (p. 40 Bekker), Io. Malal. chron. 18 p. 483 f. Dindorf, Nikephoros Patriarches rev. 
hist. p. 66, Zonar. efit. hist. 13. 20 (iii. 232 Dindorf). See further F. W. Unger Qued/en 
der byzantinischen Kunstgeschichte Wien 1878 i. 179 ff. nos. 434--447, J. Strzygowski 
‘Die Saule des Arkadius in Konstantinopel’ in the Jahrd. d. hats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 
1893 vili. 230—249, A. Geffroy ‘ La colonne d’Arcadius 4 Constantinople d’aprés un dessin 
inédit’ in the Aon. Prot 1895 ii. 997—130, T. Reinach ‘Colonne d’Arcadius’ in the Rev. 
Et. Gr. 1896 ix. 78—82, O. M. Dalton Byzantine Art and Archaeology Oxford 1911 
pp- 123, 144. This column, a pendant to that of Theodosios i, stood in the twelfth 
region, on the seventh hill, which was called Xerolophos. It was begun by Arkadios in 
403 A.D. and finished by his son Theodosios ii, who in 421 A.D. placed a statue of Arkadios 
on its summit. The column was repeatedly damaged by lightning or earthquakes, and in 
740 A.D. its statue fell. After the earthquake of 1719 A.D. the Turks decided to pull down 
the shaft ; but its square base, much defaced by fire and neglect, stillstands. The roses 
in all probability represented the war of 400 A.D. against the rebel Goth Gainas. The 
upper portion of the relief, drawn by Melchior Lorich (1557—1559 A.D.), was brought to 
light by A. Michaelis in the Jahrd. d. hats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1892 vii. 91 f.; and a view 
of the whole column, drawn perhaps for M. de Nointel the French ambassador at Con- 
stantinople (1670 A.D.), was published by A. Geffroy in the Jon. Piot 1895 ii. 997 —130 
pls. 1o—13: cp. Reinach Rép. Reliefs i. 106 ff. 

4 I do not, of course, mean to imply that this was the first application of the spiral 
motif to architecture. Such decoration had long since had a wide vogue: see V. Chapot 
La colonne torse et la décoration en hélice dans l’art antique Paris 1907 pp. 1—176 with 
210 figs. But this appears to be our earliest example of a spiral relief being used on a 
large scale to represent human figures in continuous action. 


108 The Trophy 


Here in truth was the ‘uphill path’ of ancient faith! convincingly 
filled with modern meaning. In the case of 
the Trajanic column—the first of its kind 
and the pattern for posterity—this celestial 
track led up and up to a plinth shaped like a 
hemisphere, on the top of which stood the 
figure of the divinised emperor (fig. 707). His 
position recalls that of the immortals in the 
Phaidros, who ‘go outside when they are 
come to the topmost height, and stand on 
the outer surface of heaven’,’ there to witness 
sights of unspeakable splendour. What the 
effect of this great pillar must have been on 
the popular mind, it is not hard to guess: 
They climbed the steep ascent of heaven 
Through peril, toil and pain. 
O God, to us may grace be given 
To follow in their train. 


(0) The Trophy. 

But if the Germanic Jrminsél contri- 
buted something to the monumental art of 
Rome, it had points of contact also with the 
religious life of Greece. ‘Jupiter-columns’ 
were found as far south as the confines of 
Thrace. C. Jullian*t quotes a passage of 
Valerius Flaccus, in which they are ascribed 
to the Coralli, a blonde’ Sarmatian® tribe 
settled at the foot of Mount Haimos’. The 
poet is describing the hosts led by Perses 
against his brother Aietes: 





Next Phalces drives his bronze cloud o’er the plain 
With echoing cries, and the Corallians all 

Uplift their banners, who for ensigns bear 
Barbaric wheels and boars of jaggy back 


1 Supra p. 36 ff. 

? After C. Chipiez in Daremberg-—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 
1351 fig. 1788. 3 Supra p. 44. 

4 C, Jullian in G. Gassies ‘Cavalier et anguipede sur 
un monument de Meaux’ in the Revue des études anciennes 
1902 iv. 290 n. 1. 5 Ov. 6% Pont. 4-25.37. 

6 Appian. AZthr. 69. C. Jullian Joc. cét. says: ‘ Peut- 
étre les Coraddi étaient-ils celtiques (Reinach, Revue celizgue, 
t. xx, 1899, p. 127 et s.). But F. Hertlein Dze /uppzter- 
gigantensdulen Stuttgart r9to p. 78 n. 3 is not improbably 
right in regarding them as a Germanic tribe. 

7 Strab. 318. 





The Trophy 109 


And pillars lopped to be Jove’s effigies. 

Not theirs to fire the fray with bellowing horn : 
True home-bred chiefs and prowess old they chant, 
Till praise o’ the past begets new valiancy!, 


The name Phalces means a ‘beam?) being in fact the same 
word as our ‘balk’ of timber®. If we may 
assume that this name was traditional‘, it 
points perhaps to the existence of a pillar- 
cult among the Coralli®*. However that may be, 
the ‘pillars lopped to be Jove’s effigies’ were 
_doubtless tree-trunks shorn of their boughs and 
viewed as vehicles of the sky-god. As such 
they had their parallel in the trophy-stand 
common throughout the classical area (figs. 71°, 
727, etc.8), a trimmed oak-trunk which likewise 
could be called the image of Zeus*. Moreover, 
just as the /vmznsil developed into the richly- 
carved column of Mogontiacum, so the rude 
trophy-log gave rise to such monuments as 





1 Val. Flacc. 6. 88 ff. hos super aeratam Phalces agit aequore nubem (P. Burmannus 
sen. cj. pubem) | cum fremitu, densique levant vexilla Coralli, | barbaricae quis signa rotae 
ferrataque (F. Hertlein cj. serxratagwe) dorso | forma suum truncaeque Iovis simulacra 
columnae ; | proelia nec rauco curant incendere cornu, | indigenas sed rite duces et prisca 
suorum | facta canunt veterumique viris hortamina laudes. 

For wheels as solar emblems in the bronze and iron ages see J. Déchelette J/anuel 
@ archéologie préhistorique Paris 19to ii. 1. 296 f., 413418, zd. 2b. Paris 1913 ii. 2. 885— 
892 in addition to the literature cited supra i. 197 n. 7. 

On boars as badges see Tac. Germ. 45, cp. hist. 4. 22, Plin. vat. hist. 10. 16, Fest. 
Pp: 234@ 31 ff. Miiller, p. 266, 16 ff. Lindsay, Paul. ex Fest. p. 235, 7 f. Miiller, p. 267, 6 ff. 
Lindsay, and the information collected by J. P. Cassel Odservationes antiquariae de porco 
in vexillis et in foederibus apud veteres Romanos Magdeburgi 1748, J. Grimm TZeztonic 
Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 1. 213215, zd. 2b. London 1888 iv. 1328, 
1355, G. A. Miiller Die Reitergruppe auf den romisch-germanischen Giganten-Sdulen 
Strassburg i/E und Biihl (Baden) 1894 p. 15 pl. 2, 6 (a group of boar and snake-legged 
giant in the Museum at Wiesbaden), R. Forrer Readllex. p. 194 fig. 165, za. Keltische 
Numismatik der Rhein- und Donaulande Strassburg 1908 p. 29 figs. 46, 48, p. 46 fig. 88, 
p. 114 fig. 203, p. 290f. fig. 491, p. 346 figs. 539—541 (bronze statuettes fyom Hradischt 
near Stradonic and Gallo-Germanic coins in gold, silver, potin), A. von Domaszewski Dze 
Fahnen im vrimischen Heere(Abhandlungen des archiologisch-epigraphischen Seminares der 
Universitat Wien v) Wien 1885 pp. 12, 55, 2d. Die Religion des rimischen Heeres Trier 
1895 p. 119, 7a. Abhandlungen zur rimischen Religion Leipzig und Berlin 1909 p. 12 
(=Arch.-ep. Mitth. 1892 xv. 192), and especially S. Reinach Avonzes Higurés pp. 254— 
258, id. Cultes, Mythes et Religions Paris 19035 i. 22 (= Revue scientifique 1900 ii. 454), 45 
fig. 11, 52, 67 ff. (=Revue celtigue 1900 xxi. 285, 297 ff.), 244, 262 ff. (= Revue celtique 
1901 xxii. 157 ff.), id. 7b. Paris 1908 iii. 177 (= Revue de l’ Histoire des Religions 1907 \vi. 74): 

2 Poll. 1. 85 7d 6é 7H oTelpa mpoondovmevoy Parks, Ep ov 7 Sevrépa Tpdms. 

3 Prellwitz Etym. Worterb. d. Gr: Spr.” p. 481 cp. p. 480 s.v. padayé and p. 491 S.v. 
pda, F. Kluge Ltymologisches Worterbuch der deutschen Sprache® Strassburg 1899 p. 28 s.v. 


IIO The Trophy 


‘Balken,’ J. H. Murray A Mew English Dictionary on Historical Principles Oxford 1888 
i. 636 s.v. ‘ Balk, baulk.’ 

4 The same name was borne by a leader of the Trojans (//. 13. 791, 14. 513) and by 
a son of the Argive Temenos (on whom see H. W. Stoll in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 
2243). 

5 R. Meringer ‘Zum verehrten Pflock’ in Worter und Sachen 1909 i. 199—204 thinks 
it possible that Pho/, a Germanic deity mentioned in the second Merseburg charm, who 
has been identified with a variety of unpromising persons (e.g. Balder, Apollo, and even 
the Apostle Paul: see P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye Zhe Religion of the Teutons Boston 
and London 1902 p. 126 ff., E. Mogk in the Graundriss der germanischen Philologie* 
Herausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1900 iii. 324), was a sacred post comparable with 
such divinities as Iupiter Zigi//us (Aug. de civ. Det 7. 11 dixerunt eum (sc. Iovem)... 
Tigillum...quod tamquam tigillus mundum contineret ac sustineret etc.), his name being 
related to the Latus fa/us, ‘ Pfahl.’ Meringer’s suggestion is attractive, but not altogether 
free from phonetic difficulties. 

6 The trophy is very frequent as a design on Greek and Roman coins: see the classi- 
fied list in Rasche Lex. Mum. x. 201—255, and, for illustrations, Anson zm. Gr. ii. 
106 ff. nos. 1152—1220 pl. 23f. I give three typical examples. 

Fig. 71 is a silver tetradrachm struck at Syracuse by Agathokles c. 310—304 B.C. (Brvt. 
Mus. Cat. Coins Sicily p. 193 f. fig., Hunter Cat. Coins i. 238 pl. 17, 16, G. F. Hill 
Coins of Ancient Sicily London 1903 p. 156 f. pl. 11, 13f., 2@. Historécal Greek Coins 
London 1906 pp. 110, 112 ff. pl. 8,66, Head Hist. num.” p. 18rf. fig. 105): obv. KOPAZ 
head of Persephone with flowing hair; rev. ATAQOKAEIOS®S se. xapaxrip? crarhp ? 
vodupos? Nike with hammer and nail fastening helmet to trophy. I figure a specimen in 
the McClean collection at Cambridge. 

7 Fig. 72 isa copper struck at Thebes c. 288—244 B.C. (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Central 
Greece p. 39 pl. 6, 2, Hunter Cat. Cotns ii. 37, Head Hist. num.” p. 353): obv. head of 
Athena in crested Corinthian helmet; rev. BOILO.TOLN trophy. I figure a specimen in the 
Leake collection at Cambridge (W. M. Leake Mumismata Hellenica London 1856 
European Greece p. 29). 

8 E.g. infra § 3 (c) i (u) an aureus struck at Rome in 49 B.c. (Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. 
Coins Rep. i. 505 no. 3954 pl. 49, 12, Babelon Monn. rép. rom. ii. 17 fig., G. F. Hill 
Historical Roman Coins London 1909 p. toof. pl. 11, 58): obv. female head wearing 
oak-leaves and jewellery; behind LII; rev. trophy of Gallic arms (tunic, horned helmet, 
shield, évmyx); on the right, an axe adorned with an animal’s head; across the field 
CAE SAR. 

9 The best collection of evidence with regard to trophies is that by A. Reinach in 
Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. v. 497518: see also Boetticher Bazmkultus pp. 71 ff., 
209, 231 figs. 55, 63, P. Wagler Die Ezche in alter und neuer Zeit Berlin 1891 ii. 20 ff., 
and some remarks of mine in the Class. Rev. 1904 xviii 364f., 372 n. 19, Holk-Lore 1904 
XV. 373 0. 25, 2b. 1905 xvi. 319 f. 

The Greek trophy was dedicated to Zeus Tporatos (Soph. Azz. 141 ff. mrad Noxaryol yap 
ép émta mvdats | TaxXOevTes toor mpds icous Edurov | Znvi Tporalw mdyxadka Tédyn, Corp. 
inscr. Gr.ino. 173, 1f.=Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 2. 39a Athens [el] rors’ avdpar ety 
rods, ovtror ay avl ris] | [é]xOpol orjoarev LZnvitporaioy bos, et. mag.p.768, 51 ff. Tpomata(szc). 
 “Hpa, dua 7d Ta Tpdraa...uH movoy Act avariber Oar dda Kal TH “Hpg, Vzetz. 72 Lyk. AZ. 
1328 Tporaias 6é 77s Hpas, rap’ cov kal adrq ol vikGvres Worep Tw Ari Tpdratoy averlOecar), 
who was worshipped by the Dorians at Sparta (Paus. 3. 12. 9 rot d€ Tpomaiouv Ards 76 
iepov érotnoav of Awpiets okeuw Tovs TE aous "Axaovs, of yqv Thy Aakwyixiy TyvikaiTa 
elxov, Kal Tos "AuukAarelts kparjoavres), by the Athenians at Salamis (Corp. zmscr. Att. 
ii. 1 no. 467, 27 f.=Dittenberger Syl/. tuscr. Gr.* no. 521, 27 f.= Michel Recuetl a’ Inser. 
gr. no. 610, 27 f. an ephebic decree of 100/99 B.C. mpoavarevoavres 5¢ Kal érl Tpdma.oy 
duct wrolots COvcay TH Avt 7H Tpolralw, cp. Corp. znscr. Att. ii. 1 no. 469, 17f., 26. il. 1 
no. 471, 28f., where the same formu/a is used), and by the Pergamenes (M. Frankel 
Die Inschriften von Pergamon Berlin 1895 1. 136f. no. 237, 1 ff.=Dittenberger O7vent. 


The Trophy III 


that of La Turbie near Monaco (fig. 74)! or that of Adamklissi 


Gr. inscr. sel. no. 300, I ff. on the lintel of a door, found in a Byzantine wall on the south 
side of the Agora, inscribed in lettering of the second century B.c. [’A]moA\ddwpos 
*Apréuwvos, Avoviovos Novunviov, "ApisroBovdos ‘Hpaxdeldovu | [vo]uopidAaxes Aud Tporalue 
Kal TH Onuw 76 Te Oipwua Kal Tas TapacTddas | [Kal rhy év [TO]c vowopudaklwe éricKxevyv 
cal Tas mapadup[ldas], Frankel of. cit. 1. 160 ff. no. 247 ii, 2 ff. xa7[a] Wydicua emi 
IIlvppou rot ’A@n|vodmpou bia Thy yevouévny vd | rod Ads Tod Tporaiov émipdvecav) : he 
was also invoked as giver of victory on the Attic stage (Soph. 77ach. 303 © Zed Tporaie, 
Eur. Heracl. 867 & Zed Tporate, L/. 671 & Led Iarpwe cal Tporrat’ éxOpav éuev). Cp. 
Scholl—Studemund azecd: i.-265 no. 97 Tporatov, 267 no. g2 Tporaiov. 

Similarly the Greeks recognised Zeus Tporacodxos (Aristot. de mundo 7. 401a 22 f. 
xal orpdarios Kal Tpoma.odxos cp. Poll. 1. 23 f. Qeol...crparot, rporarodyor, Cornut. ¢heol. 9 
p- 9, 16 f. Lang kal rpomacodxov...avrov (sc. Tov Ala) rpocayopetovo.v), who was worshipped 
at Attaleia in Pamphylia (Corp. zmscr. Gr. iii Add. no. 4340 f, 5 ff. Tatou Ackwviov, 
Praulévos,] | érdpxov rexverirav Kal iepéws dia Blov | Ads Tpomaovxou, 2b. iii Add. no. 
4340 9, 4 ff. a second base bearing the same honorary inscription of early Roman date) 
and probably elsewhere—since Othryades the Spartan after the fight with the Argives at 
Thyrea is said to have dedicated his trophy (fig. 73 from an 
engraved cornelian of Augustan date, in my wife’s possession, to 
a scale of #: see also Furtwangler. dzt. Gemmen i pl. 23, 1, 5, 
8—r4, ii. 112f.) to Zeus under this title (Plout. parvall. Gr. et 
Rom. 3 tTpdmawv orjoas éx Tod ldiov atuaros éméypape Au 
Tporatovxw) and since Zeds Tporaovxos was a possible equivalent 
for Lupiter Feretrius (Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 2. 34 Tov 6é€ Ala tov 
Pepérpiov, « Ta Ora 6 ‘Pwuidos avéOnxerv, elre BovNeral Tus 
Tporaodxov, elre DkvNopdpoy Kadetv, ws aéwobcl tives, lO’, dre wavTwy JTeEpéxeEr Kai Tacay 
év KiKAXw Teptet\npe Tiv TaV ovTav diaw Te Kal Know, ‘Treppepérny, ox auapTiceTac 
THs a\nOelas). : 

In the ves gestae divt Augusté 19 p. 22 f. Diehl aedés in Capitolio ovis Feretré et Tovis 
Tonanitis is rendered vaods é€v KaritwrXiw Arcos Tporatopépov kai Avos Bpovryctov. 

Just as the lopped pillars of the Coralli were called Jours s¢mulacra (supra p. 109 
n. 1) or the high oak of the Celts dyaduwa Acés (Max. Tyr. diss. 8. 8 Diibner Kedroil 
céBovor pev Ala, dyadwa dé Avds KeXrixdv bd) Spds, on which see Folk-Lore 1906 xvii. 
53), so the trophy is regarded by Euripides as the actual image of Zeus (Eur. Hevac/. 
936 f.""PAXos pev otv 6 7’ EONOs "TdAews Bpéras | Ards Tporatov kadNvixor ictacav, Phoen. 
r250f. Ilodvveckes, ev col Znvos dpO@car Bpéras | rpomratov, 1472 f. ws 6 évikGuev waxy, | 
oi wév Atos tpotratov totacay Bpéras, cp. suppl. 647 f. mas yap Tpomaia Znvos Alyéws 
rokos | €ornoev of Te cumpeTacxdyTes Sopds;). But it is far from clear that this was the 
original intention (see W. H. D. Rouse Greek Votive Offerings Cambridge 1902 p. 99, 
Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 365, A. Reinach in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. v. 497 f.). 

1 O. Benndorf La trophée d@ Auguste pres de Monaco (La Turbze) Paris 1904, Durm 
Baukunst d. Rim.” p. 733 f. fig. 803, J. C. Formigé ‘ Le trophée de la Turbie’ in the 
Comptes rendus de l Acad. des inscr. et belles-lettres 1910 pp. 76--87 with 3 figs., C. J. 
Formigé ‘ Le trophée d’Auguste’ 24. 1910 pp. 509—516 with 11 figs. and 2 pls., F. Liibker 
Reallexikon des klassischen Altertums® Leipzig-Berlin 1914 p. 50, A. Reinach in Darem- 
berg—Saglio Dict. Ant. v. 512 fig. 7122. The ¢vopaeum Alpium (Plin. nat. hist. 3. 136) 
or Tpdmaa DVeBacrod (Ptol. 3. 1.2, whence Zordéa, Turbia, Turbie) commemorated the 
submission of 46 Alpine tribes. This great trophy was erected in 7/6 B.c. on the summit 
of La Corniche (454™ above Monaco), marking at once the highest point of the pass over 
the Maritime Alps and the frontier between Italy and Gaul (G. Parthey—M. Pinder 
Itinerarium Antonini Augusti et Hierosolymitanum Berolini 1848 p. 141=p. 296, 3f. 
Wesseling). On a paved platform (38™ square), bordered by boundary stones (12 a side), 
stood a plinth (27™ square, 5™ high) supporting a rotunda (18™ in diameter, c. 13™ high) 
surrounded by 24 Doric columns (8.80™ high) with a stepped stylobate (3™ high) and 





Fig. 73. 


I12 The Trophy 


(fig. 75)8 with their wealth of architectural and sculptural decoration. 
























gE Ay 
ee ee Ov 
a RH 00 ayy 
——— iz NN za 
= = iy | 


; ESS a as eel a es es eS ae e 
@ fo = Sooo es ma ag ae 










































































PONT MAXIMPXIVTRIB POTES XVIII | 
SE PV IMANVS 




























































































Fig. 74. 


entablature (2™ high). From this rose a pyramid of steps topped by a colossal trophy. 
The total height was some 46™. The metopes of the rotunda showed garlanded bucrania 
alternating with military or naval spoils. And on the east face of the plinth was an in- 
scription (quoted in full by Plin. za¢. hist. 3. 136f.: fragments in Corp. imscr. Lat. v 
no. 7817) flanked by Victories and Gallic trophies in relief. 

1G. G. Tocilesco—O. Benndorf—G. Niemann Das Monument von Adamhklissi. 
Tropaeum Trajanz. Wien 1895 pp. 1—149 with pls. etc., G. Niemann ‘ Zur Basis des 
Tropaeums von Adamklissi’ in the Jahresh. a. oest. arch. Inst. 1898 i. 138—142 figs. 
41—44, O. Benndorf ‘ Neues iiber Adamklissi’ 2d. 1903 vi. 247266 figs. 131136 (these 
archaeologists hold that the monument was built by Trajan to commemorate his victories 
over the Dacians), A. Furtwangler ‘Das Monument von Adamklissi und die altesten 
Darstellungen von Germanen’ in his /ydermezz? Leipzig und Berlin 1896 pp. 49—77 with 
figs., 7@. ‘Zum Tropaion von Adamklissi’ in the Sitzungsber. d. hais. bayr. Akad. a. 


The Trophy 113 


Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1897 pp. 247—288 with figs., zd. Das Tropaton von Adam- 
klisst und provinzialrimische Kunst (Abh. ad. bayer. Akad. Philos.-philol. Classe xxii. 
453—516) Miinchen 1903 with pls. 1—12 of which pl. 1=my fig. 75, zd. ‘Zum Tropaion 
von Adamklissi’ in the Sttzungsber. d. kais. baya. Akad. d. Wess. Phil.-hist. Classe 1904 
pp- 383—413, 2d. inthe Berl. philol. Woch. 1904 p. 1200 ff. (Furtwangler held to the last 
that the monument was built under Augustus in 27 B.C. to record the victory won by 
M. Licinius Crassus over the Bastarnae in 30 B.C., and that its inscription was added by 
Trajan), C. Cichorius ‘Die Reliefs des Denkmals von Adamklissi’ in Phdlologisch- 





Fig. 75 


historische Beitrage Curt Wachsmuth zum sechzigsten Geburtstag tiberreicht Leipzig 1897 
Pp- I—20, zd. Die rimischen Denkmiler in der Dobroudscha Berlin 1904 (Cichorius 
argues that the monument commemorates the victories of Trajan, but that the existing 
reliefs were due to a reconstruction by Constantine the Great). See further F. Studniczka 
Tropaeum Trajani (Abh. d. siichs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1904 xxii. 4. 1—152 
with 86 figs.) Leipzig 1904, T. Antonesco Le trophée d Adamelissi. Etude archéologique. 
Jassy 1905 pp. 1—252 with 1o pls. and 16 figs., Durm Baukunst d. Rim.” p. 734f. 


Cir: 8 


II4. The Pillar of Light 


(\) The Pillar of Light and the Soul-Ladder. 


So, then, the /rmznsi/, the pillar of the sky-god Er or /rmzn' 
was a familiar sight to dwellers on the Thracian frontier. And 
Platon—it will be remembered—conceives of Ev son of Armentos 
as standing on ‘a straight light like a pillar?’ I have already 
ventured to connect the Germanic cult with the Greek myth*: I 
would now add the conjecture that the link between Germany and 
Greece was Thrace, and that the myth in question reached Platon 
through Orphic channels. If so, we might look to find either among 
the Thracians or among the Orphists some trace at least of the 
‘light like a pillar’ and of the allied belief in a soul-path leading up 
to the summit of the heavenly vault. In point of fact there is 
evidence of both. 

In Krastonia we hear of ‘a sanctuary of Dionysos, large and 
fine, where during the festival and sacrifice, if the god is about to 
cause a good year, there appears-a great gleam of fire seen by all in 
the precinct, if a bad season, the light does not appear but darkness 
covers the place as on ordinary nights*” It would seem that in this 
Thracian® cult the presence of the god was betokened by a great 


figs. 805—807, Reinach Rép. Reliefs i. 428--442, F. Liibker Reallexthon des klassischen 
Altertums® Leipzig-Berlin 1914 p. 9, A. Reinach in Daremberg-——Saglio Dict. Ant. v. 
513 f. fig. 7123. The ¢ropaewm Trajan (the name is certified by inscriptions for the 
neighbouring town, which was presumably called after this famous monument) stands in 
the Roumanian district of Dobroudja not far from the site of Tomis (Aostendje), on the 
coins of which it appears in a simplified form (Rasche Lex. Mum. ix. 1394 a ‘ third brass’ 
of Trajan with rev. TOMITQQN ‘tropaeum in cippo,’ Head Hist. zum.” p. 276 ‘ Trophy 
between captives,’ F. Imhoof-Blumer Dze antiken Miinzen Nord-Griechenlands i Dacien 
und Moesien von B. Pick und K. Regling Berlin 1910 ii. 635, 680f. nos. 2600 pl. 7. t, 
2601—2603). It was erected probably in 103 A.D. by Trajan, and it was dedicated to Mars 
Ultor possibly on the spot where in 87 A.D. Cornelius Fuscus had been defeated and slain 
by the Dacians (C. G. Brandis in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Eunc. iv. 1966). From a circular 
stepped base rises a cylindrical drum (20™ in diameter, 8™ high) formerly adorned with 
triglyphs and 50 sculptured metopes, a frieze of arms, and a projecting cornice, which 
supported a crenelated parapet. The 50 battlements have reliefs representing barbarian 
prisoners with lions as gargoyles between them. Higher up comes a truncated cone, once 
covered with scale-like tiles and topped by a hexagonal plinth (8™ high), on which rested 
a huge trophy (8™ high) facing east with a barbarian standing before it and two female 
captives seated to right and left of it. The dedication (Corg. zmscr. Lat. iii no, 12467) 
was on the eastern side of the hexagon. 

1 Supra p. 50 ff. 2 Supra p. 44. 3 Supra p. 54. 

4 Aristot. mzr. ausc. 122 €oTe 5€ Kat &ANo adrobe (sc. ev TH Kpacrwvia mapa ri 
Bicadtra&v xwpav) lepdv Avovicov péya kal kaddv, év w THS EoprAs Kal THs Bvolas ovens 
héyerat, drav wev O Oeos evernplay méMAH Trove’, éemigalvecOar wéya cédas Tupéds, Kal TOOTO 
mavras opay Tods wept TO Téuevos SiarplBovras, drav 5 dkapriav, uh palvecOa TodTo TO Pas, 
aNNG oKbTos éréxew Tov Témov Womep Kal Tas d\Aas VUKTAS. 

> Steph. Byz. s.v. Kpjorwv* rods Opdxys (cp. 26. s.v. Tpnotwvia* xdpa Opakns mpos TH 
Makedovig), Tzetz. 2 Lyk. Al. 937 Kpnorav<n> rods Opdxns. Kpnorévn d¢ 7 Opaxn 


and the Soul-Ladder II5 


blaze or shaft of light. Similarly in the Bakchad of Euripides the 
voice of Dionysos is heard from the upper air addressing his 
Maenads: 


So spake he, and between the heaven and earth 
Set up a standing light of holy fire!. 


This Dionysiac pillar of light is presumably a genuine Thracian 
touch. Again, Thrasyboulos in his nocturnal march from Phyle to 
Mounychia (403 B.C.) was guided by a pillar of fire and, where it 
vanished, built an altar to Phosphéros, the ‘Light-bearing’ goddess’. 
Since at Mounychia his troops occupied the precincts of Artemis 
and of the Thracian Bendis’, it is very possible that here too 
Thracian influence was at work. 

In view of the kinship between Thracians and Phrygians it 
should be noticed that the pillar of fire reappears in a Phrygian 
miracle. The pagans of Laodikeia, wishing to flood the prayer- 
house and holy well of Saint Michael, made a new bed for the 
neighbouring streams Kouphos and Lykokapros. Thereupon, in 
answer to the prayers of the hermit Archippos, the archangel mani- 
fested himself, with a crash of thunder, in the form of a fiery pillar 
stretching from earth to heaven. Extending his right hand he split 
a gigantic rock, and bade the waters flow through the cleft of 
Chonai with renewed powers of healing’. 


amd mé\ews ds ow KaNousévyns. On Thracian tribes in this district see O. Hoffmann 
Die Makedonen, thre Sprache und thr Volkstum Gottingen 1906 p. 117. 

1 Eur. Bacch. 1082 f. cal rad’ dw ayyopeve Kai mpos ovpavdy | kal yaiay éornpite (sic 
cod. P: éornjpite ed. Ald.) ps ceuvod mupés. Cp. Christ. pat. 2255f. ra’rn 0” dw’ 
éBpivtnoe Kal mpos Tov mddov | kai yalav éoryjpitée POs ceuvod mupds (when the stone was 
rolled away from the tomb). 

= Clem. Al. strom. 1. 24 p- 102, 3 ff. dAAd Kal OpacvBothw rods éxmecdvTas amd Pudjjs 
karayayévre (L. Dindorf cj. xard-yovrt) kal Bovdopévy Nabety orddos ddnyds yiverat dia TAY 
arpiBov lévtt. TH OpacvBothyw viKTwp dcedjvou Kal dutxXEepou TOD KaTaTTHMATOS yeyovdbros 
Tip EwpaTo mponyoupevov, orep avTovs amTaloTws mpoméuWay KaTa Tiv Movvuxiay é&éduev, 
év0a viv 077s Pwoddpov Bwuds éore. The context compares the pillar of fire, which led 
the Hebrews through the wilderness (Ex. 13. 21f., 14. 19 f., 24, 33. gf., Num. 12. 5, 
14. 14, Deut. 31. 15, Neh. 9. 12, 19, Ps. 99. 7: B. Stade Biblische Theologie des Alten 
Testaments Tiibingen 1905 i. 41f.). For Artemis bwodépos at Athens and elsewhere see 
O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 2441 ff., cp. H. W. Stoll 2. ii. 3227, K. Wernicke in 
Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 1401, Farnell Cults of Gk. States ii. 458f., Gruppe Gr. 
Myth. Rel. pp. 40 n. 7, 125 n. 13, 263 n. 8, 1298n. 1. Anth. Pal. 7. 266. 1 ff. (Hegesip- 
pos) tells how Hagelocheia, daughter of Damaretos (sc. Damaratos, king of Sparta c. 
500 B.C.), dedicated an Artemis by the cross-ways because the goddess had appeared to 
her at the loom ws avya mupés. 

3 Xen. Hell. 2. 4. 11f. Topographical discussion by A. Wilhelm in the Jahresh. d. 
oest. arch. Inst. 1902 v. 127 ff., W. Judeich Zofographie von Athen Miinchen 1905 
p- 398 f. 

4M. Bonnet xarratio de miraculo a Michaele Archangelo Chonis patrato adjecto 
Symeonis Metaphrastae de eadem re libello in the Avzalecta Bollandiana Paris-Bruxelles 


8—2 


116 The Pillar of Light 


A similar manifestation is recorded in the life of Saint Sabas 
(Dec. 5), founder of the famous monastery near Jerusalem, who one 
night saw a pillar of fire connecting earth with heaven and found 
beneath it a cave well suited to serve as a church’. Sabas was a 
Cappadocian by birth ; and it is perhaps more than a coincidence 
that another Cappadocian, Saint Basil the Great, appeared in a 
vision to Saint Ephraem the Syrian as a column of fire reaching to 
the sky*. Accordingly Saint Basil (June 14) is sometimes repre- 
sented in art with a column of fire near by and a dove at his head’, 
Saint Ephraem (Jan. 28 or Feb. 1 and July 9) with a pillar of light 
before him* In the case of Celtic and Saxon saints the said pillar 
is almost a commonplace. When Saint Bridget of Kildare (Feb. 1) 
received the veil from Bishop Maccail at Usny Hill, Westmeath, a 
flame shaped like a column appeared above her®. So too when 
Saint Brioc of Brittany (May 1), son of an Irish father by a Saxon 
mother, was being ordained, a column of fire rose to the roof above 
his head®: he is sometimes figured with this attribute’. A column 
of fire likewise appeared on the head of Saint Cuthbert (March 20), 
while he was abbot of Melrose’. A pillar of light was seen shining 
over the thicket, where the body of Saint Kenelm (July 17 and 


1889 vill. 287 ff. (p. 304, 2 ff. Kal rivy wev mwvny é& abrod jnKovev, TO d€ méyebos THs SbEns 
avTov €Bemev, oTvNoy mupos ard Tis vis €ws TOD ovpavod, p. 315, Bf. aTUAov 5 Tapaxphua 
mupos ard yijs ws abrod dinxovra ldeiv odfpavod kal pwrijs éexeiev axodoa x.T.d.), G. Anrich 
Die Anfinge des Heiligenkults in der christlichen Kirche Tiibingen 1904 p. 267. 

* Kyrillos of Skythopolis v. Sabae 17 in J. B. Cotelerius Eccleste Grece monumenta 
Luteciz Parisiorum 1686 iii. 242¢ opd...crvAov mupds éreornpryyévov ev TH YH od 7 
kepahn adixvetro els Tov ovpavdy, 243 A—B avéBn wera PbBov Kal xapas weyddns, évba 6 
aTuros TOU mupos EdE(XOn* Kal evpe or7jraLoy méya TE Kal Oavudorov, ExkAnolas Oeod ExTUTHUA 
éxov. 

* Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Antverpiz 1658 Februarius i. 75 D (ex Vita S. Basilii 
Magni | Auctore (ut vulgo creditur) S. Amphilochio) In extasi ergo factus, vidit 
columnam ignis, cuius caput pertingebat ccelum, & vocem desuper dicentem audiuit : 
Effrem, Effrem, quemadmodtm vidisti columnam istam ignis, talis est magnus Basilius. 
Cp. Smith—Wace Dact. Chr. Biogr. ii. 138. 

* M. and W. Drake Saints and their Emblems London 1916 pp. 17, £75. 

4M. and W. Drake of. cit. pp. 41, 200, R. Pfleiderer Die Attribute der Hetligen 
Ulm 1808 p. 139. 

> C. Cahier Caractéristiques des Saints dans lart populaire Paris 1867 i. 246 quoting 
[J. E.] Nieremberg[ius] De [iris ef] miraculosis [naturis in Europa Antverpiz 1635] 
lib. II cap. xi. 

° Vita S. Brioci 19 in the Analecta Bollandiana Paris-Bruxelles 1883 ii. 170 apparuit 
super caput Brioccii, qui prope erat episcopo, quasi columna ignis, attingens ecclesize 
laquearia. 

 C, Cahier of. cit. i. 245, R. Pfleiderer of. cit. p. 139, D. H. Kerler Dée Patronate 
der Heiligen Ulm 1905 p. 36f., M. and W. Drake of. cz¢. pp. 21, 175, 200. 

8 C. Cahier of. cit. i. 245. Cp. R. Pfleiderer of. cit. p. 139 (‘Siule, glithende, iiber 
ihm’), D. H. Kerler of. cz¢. p. 168 (‘ Glithende Saule’), M. and W. Drake of. cit. pp. 31, 
200 (‘pillars of light above him’). 


and the Soul-Ladder ey 


Dec. 13), the little king of Mercia, lay hidden’. A column of light 
protected the church at Deventer, beneath which was the grave of 
Saint Lebuinus (Nov. 12). A column of light gleamed above Saint 
Livinus of Ghent (Nov. 12) at his baptism in Ireland*. A column 
of fire was beheld by Saint Keyne of Wales (Oct. 8), when she lay 
dying in her cell’. Etc. etc. Hagiography, like history, tends to 
repetition. 

As to the soul-path, an Orphic poem in praise of the cosmic 
Zeus speaks of the sky as his face, the clustering stars as his golden 
locks, the sun and moon as his eyes®, and in the midst of this 
pantheistic extravaganza declares : 


Two golden bull’s-horns stretch on either side—- 
The east and west, roads of the heavenly gods®. 


The poet is describing the Galaxy from an Orphic view-point. 
Quintus Smyrnaeus too, when he makes the ghost of Achilles 
appear by night to his son and demand the sacrifice of Polyxene, 
ends with an Orphic or Pythagorean flourish : 


Then like a waft of wind he leapt away, 

So reached the Elysian plain, where there is wrought 
Ascent and descent from the heaven’s height 

For blest immortals‘. 


The same notion, complicated by a reminiscence of the Phazdros*, 
marks the close of Lucian’s Demosthenes : 


‘Enough ; the man has gone his way, to live the life they tell of in the Isles 
of the heroic Blest, or to walk the paths that, if tales be true, the heaven-bound 


1 Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Antverpiz 1725 Julius iv. 300 E (Acta et Miracula 
S. Kenelmi 6) Nam fulgida lucis columna de czelo super locum effusa, seepius ostensa est, 
S. Baring-Gould Zhe Lives of the Saints Edinburgh 1914 viii. 428. 

* Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Antverpize 1668 Martius iii. 651 E (Vita [S. Ludgeri] | 
Auctore Altfrido Episcopo 2. 4. 18) Aliquando etiam ipsam ecclesiam, infra quam 
sepulcrum eiusdem Dei famuli receptum est, nocturno tempore columna lucis obtinendo 
protexit ; & ad ccelum usque porrecta foris excubantibus conspicua stabat. 

3 Bonifacius v. Lzvin. 5 (Ixxxvii. 330c Migne, cp. Ixxxix. 8748 Migne) qui mox ut 
de aqua levaverunt puerum, cum omnibus qui aderant manifesta visione cernebant de- 
scendisse columniferum splendorem radiis splendidi solis fulgidiorem, atque capiti benedicti 
pueri imminere etc., S. Baring-Gould of. cz¢. xiii. 302. 

4 Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Bruxellis 1780 October iv. 277 c (Vita Ex Capgravio 
4) vidit in visione noctis columpnam quasi igneam usque ad lectuli ejus pavimentum 
descendere, S. Baring-Gould of. cit. xi. 179. 

> Supra i. 197. 

8 Orph. frag. 123, 16 f. Abel af. Euseb. praep. ev. 3.9. 2 and Stob. ec/. 1. 1. 23 p. 30, 
5 f. Wachsmuth ravpea 6 duporépwle Sto xptcera Képara | avroXin Te Svcs Te, Ded ddol 
ovpaviovew. See Rohde Psyche? p. 213 n. 2. 

7 Quint. Smyrn. 14. 223 ff. @s elrady dmbpouce O07 évaNlyKtos avpy, | ala 6’ és Hvorov 
mediov lev, xe Téruxrat | ovpavod e& badroww KaraBacin 7 dvodds Te | dAavdros paKd- 
pecou. 


8 Supra p. 43 f. 


118 The Pillar of Light 


spirits tread; he shall attend, surely, on none but that Zeus who is named of 
Freedom!,’ 


More definitely Orphic are the gold tablets from Corigliano’, in 
which the soul, addressing the Queen of the Underworld together . 
with Eukles?, Eubouleus‘, and the other immortal gods, claims to 


1 Loukian. Dem. 50 dGXN 6 pev olxeTar Blov EEwy Tov ev pakdpwv vnco.s hpwwv heyouevor, 
}) Tas els obpavov Wuxats vousfoudvas ddovs, dradés tis daluwy éoduevos ’"ENevdeplov Ards, 
k.T A. trans. H. W. Fowler and F. G. Fowler. 

2 Three small plates of gold obtained in 1880 from graves in the territory of Thourioi 
(near Corigliano). They were first published by G. Fiorelli in the At¢¢ della R. Accademia 
det Lincet anno CCLXXVII (1879—1880). Serie Terza. Memorie della Classe di Scienze 
Morali, Storiche e Filologiche. Roma 1880 v. 400—410 pl. 3, I—3=Wol. Scavi 1880 
pp. 152—162 pl. 6, 1—3, cp. zd. 1879 pp. 156—159. See also D. Comparetti ‘The 
Petelia gold tablet’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1883 ill. 111—118, 7d. Laminette Orfiche 
edite ed illustrate Firenze 1910 pp. 1—32 with 4 pls. (reviewed by O. Gruppe in the Ber. 
philol. Woch. Jan. 27, 1912 p. 103 ff.), G. Kaibel Znscr. Gr. Sic. Zt. no. 641, A. Dieterich 
de hymnis Orphicis Marpurgi Cattorum 1891 p. 30 ff. (= Aline Schrifien Leipzig and 
Berlin rg1t p. gt ff.), O. Hoffmann in Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Déal.-Luschr. ii. 161 f. 
no. 1654, Harrison Proleg. Gk. Rel.” p. 585 ff., G. Murray 2d. p. 667 ff., L. Radermacher 
‘Orphica’ in the Rhein. Mus. 1912 Ixvii. 472—477, H. Allene ‘Le paradis orphique et la 
formule épidos és yan’ érerov’ in Zévia Hommage Internationale a [ Université Nationale 
de Grice & Voccasion du soixante-quinziime Anniversaire de sa fondation (18377-1912) 
Athens 1912, A. Delatte ‘ Inscriptions orphiques sur tablettes d’or’ in the Azusée Belge 
1912 p. 125 ff. (noted by L. R. Farnell in Zhe Year's Work in Class. Stud. 1913 
p- 135), J. H. Wieten De tribus laminis aureis quae in sepulcris Thurints sunt inventae 
Amstelodami 1915 pp. 1—172. Szprai. 650 n. 0, 675f. 

3 Inscr. Gr. Sic. Tt. no. 641 i, 2 f. Hdxdijs EvPoude’s re kal dlOdvaror Beot &ddXox, 
cp. 2. ii, 3 f. Etre cal EvBouded kal Oeoi Satwolv]le(s) &AXo, ili, 2 ff. (E)b«eva xa()) 
Ev|Bo(v)Aed Kal Aeol dco S(al)uolves dNo(t). Hvxdjs or EvxXos is a euphemistic name for 
Hades (Hesych. evx«Ays: 6 aldns. Kal dvouaords. Kat everdns (Sic cod. evxXelns: 6 aldjuwv 
Musurus: M. Schmidt ad oc. cj. that there is a confusion in the text between ev«d\ns* 
6"Avdys, ‘bene obseratus,’ and ev«Aerjs. F. Biicheler in the Aen. Aus. 1881 xxxvi. 333 
restores Evx\js: “Acdns)) like EvBovAeds, Evevdjs, Evxatrys etc. (Rohde Psyche” p. 206f., 
O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Real- Enc. vi. 862, 880, 1053, 7zfra Append. M). It probably 
occurs on a bronze tablet from Agnone, now in the British Museum, as part of a lengthy 
Oscan inscription: Lvklid stattf...Buklit Pateret statif...Evkliut..., z.e. * Euclo statua... 
Euclo Patri statua...Euclo...’ (see J. Zvetaieff Sy/loge inscriptionum Oscarum Petropoli 
1878 p. 6 ff no. g pl. 2, 2d. LZnscriptiones Italiae Infertoris dialecticae Mosquae 1886 
p- 32 ff. no. 87, R. S. Conway The /talic Dialects Cambridge 1897 i. 191 ff. Oscan 
no. 175, C. D. Buck A Grammar of Oscan and Umbrian Boston, U.S.A. 1904 p. 254 ff. 
Oscan no. 45). Conway of. cit. ii. 619 and Buck of. ct. pp. 20, 46 treat Lukhié as 
Evxéddw, an epithet of Hermes at Metapontum (Hesych. s.v. EvxoNos, Anth. Pal. g. 72. 1 
Antipatros: O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa eal-£7c. vi. 1055 f.). But EvkoNos as epithet 
of a chthonian power (Aristoph. va. 82 6 & etkoNos wey €vOdd’, BvKodos 5 exe? involves a 
pun) may be only the last term of the series Hixdens, Evxd7js, Hixdos, Hvix(o)Nos. This is 
seen by J. H. Wieten of. ct. p. 31 ff., though I should not agree with his contention that 
the whole series was aé énitio an appellative of Hermes. Cp. Zeus Hvxevos (Bakchyl. 
1. 6 ff. [A]ids EvxXelou dé e[x]alre Badd fwvor Kopav | [A]e&Oday Sduacev sc. Minos), Hikdera 
or Artemis Ev«Xeva (O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. vi. 996 ff.), the festival 
Hvkdeva (Nilsson Gr. este p. 237 f.), and the month HijkXeos (E. Bischoff ‘ De fastis 
Graecorum antiquioribus’ in the Lezpziger Studien zur classischen Philologie Leipzig 1884 
vil. 372 ff., W. Dittenberger in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. vi. 1052 f.). 

4 H. W. Stoll in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 1397, S. Reinach in Daremberg 





Saglio 


and the Soul-Ladder 119 


be itself one of the same happy kindred, brought low by ‘Fate and 
star-flung Thunderbolt’ In the oldest and most accurate of the 
tablets, which is inscribed with fourth-century characters and com- 
posed throughout in the dialect of Thourioi, the speaker goes on to 
say : 

I have flown out of the sorrowful weary Round ; 

I have entered with quick feet upon the lovely Crown?. 


Dict. Ant. ii. 849 f., O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. vi. 861—869. Supra i. 212, 
221 (?). Cp. Zeus EvBoundeds (supra i. 669 n. 2, 717 N. 3, 2fra § 3 (a) ili (Y)). It is not 
improbable that here, as in Orph. 2. Phers. 29. 8, 2. Dion. 30. 6, h. triet. 52. 4, the 
name EvBoudevs, properly belonging to the nether Zeus, is transferred to his son Dionysos 
(J. H. Wieten of. cit. p. 27 ff.). The Queen with Eukles and Eubouleus would thus 
make up the triad Mother + Father+ Son. 

1 Inser. Gr. Sic. Zt. no. 641 i, 5 ff. ad(A)d we Mo(?)pa edauac(c)e | kal dOavaror Geol 
G\Xo Kal dolorepoB\ijra Kepavydy, cp. 2b. ii, 7 f. etre we Mo(t)pa edaudcaro | elite dorepom7te 
k(€)pavv Gr, iii, 8 ff. e(’)r(e) we Motpa (€5amuacce) | e(t)r’ (aor)eporire xn Kepajuvd (séc). The 
best solution of the textual problem is still that of G. Kaibel who in i, 6 would bracket 
kal d@dvaro eoi dddo as interpolated from i, 2 f., and in i, 7 would emend kepauydéy to 
kepauvos, arguing that the original poet meant dorepoSA7jra as an epic nominative, but 
that a stupid transcriber took it to be an accusative and consequently altered xepauyds to 
xepavvév. With this I should agree, only bargaining that we write Kepavvés with a capital 
letter, since an Orphic hymn identifies Aervaundés with Zeus (supra p. 12). Thus the 
‘ star-flung (rather than ‘ star-flinging ’) Thunderbolt’ is Zeus in his destructive capacity— 
the bright brand that flashes downwards from the Milky Way and hurls the guilty soul, 
like a fallen angel, out of heaven. 

A. Dieterich de hymnts Orphicts Marpurgi Cattorum 1891 p. 31 (= Kleine Schriften 
Leipzig and Berlin rgrr p. 92) omits the superfluous kai a@dvarou Geol &\Nou and reads 
i, Of. dorepoBAjTa KepavyGy, ii, 8 and iii, gf. doreporfra KepavyGv. O. Hoffmann too in 
Collitz—Bechtel G7. Diéal.-Z/uschr. ii. 161 f. no. 1654 prints <xal d@dvaro. eot dANor> 
kal do|repoB\Ara Kepavy(S)v. On this showing xepavvéy is the participle of cepavvdw, and 
dorepoBAjra has to mean ‘ Blitzschleuderer’ or ‘ der mit dem Sonnenstich treffende ’—a 
choice of evils. J. H. Wieten of. cit. p. 94 ff. decides for the first horn of the dilemma 
(dorepoB\fjira=*doreporos\qra by haplology). G. Murray in Harrison Proleg. Gk. Rel.” 
p- 670 makes the interesting suggestion that d\\d we Modtp’ edapacce kal afdvaro Oeol 
Nae | ae eee kal adorepoB\ATa Kepavydy may be a liturgical abbreviation for some fuller form 
of words. Certainly it would be possible to fill the gap with <oxjwavres Bpovrny Te> or 
the like, perhaps»a much longer phrase. But on the whole I am inclined to think, with 
Kaibel, Dieterich, and Hoffmann, that kal a@dvaroc Oeoi doe is a mere interpolation 
from the second line of the poem. The writer of the first tablet seems to have similarly 
duplicated his sixth line (‘z/fra n. 2), while the writer of the third tablet has the self- 
correction «yn Kxepalvyd. L. Radermacher in the Aheiz. Mus. 1912 Ixvii. 474 ff. admits 
aorepoB\7Ta as a nominative=*dorepoBAnrys, and supposes that *aoreporoBA7jTyns became 
*aorepoB\ynryns through confusion with aoreporynrns : he doubts whether dorepoBdjra can 
be taken in a passive sense. But stars are as much in point as lightnings ; and a poet 
familiar with AvoBdAjs, A\cAoBAns, Acé8AnTos, \LHdBAnTOos as passives would not hesitate to 
make dorepoB\fra passive too. Less and less probable are the conjectures of F. Biicheler 
in the Rhein. Mus. 1881 xxxvi. 334 Kar’ dorepoBdjra Kepavvdv, D. Comparetti Lamznette 
Orfiche edite ed illustrate Firenze 1910 p. 23f. eir’ éwé Motpa édapaco’ atov orepory Te 
xepavuvod (even if helped out by Gruppe’s orepor Fre Kepavye). 

2 Inscr. Gr. Sic. It. no. 641 i, 7 ff. KbkXNou | & é&érrav BaputrevOéos dpya|\éoro, iweprov 
& éméBav oredajvou root kapmaNiwowr, Aecomot|vas 6é brd Kd\mov eduv xOovilas Bactdelas, 
imeprod 8 améBav | ore(p)avov mooi xapma(A)iuor'or. The verse iueprod 6’ aréBav x.7.X. 


120 The Pillar of Light 


The lines may be paraphrased: I have escaped from the dreary 
cycle of life’s changes!; I have set foot on the Milky Way’. Ina 
word, I have regained my lost paradise, and am henceforward a god 
in heaven, not a man on earth. The astonishing beauty of this pro- 
fession must not, however, blind us to its crude material aspect. 
Such formulae presuppose a definite ritual*; and it may be asked 


reads like a careless repetition of the verse imeprov & éwéBay x.7..; and such it pre- 
sumably is, though the verb may have been changed to suggest that the soul now returning 
to the Milky Way had originally come from it. 

1 For this use of xkvxdos cp. Diog. Laert. 8. 14 mp@rdv ré gact Tovrov (sc. Pythagoras) 
amophvar tiv Wuxty KikNov avayKns duelBovsay d&ddor’ aAdots EvdetcPar (os, Emped. 
frag. 17, 12 f. Diels? 7 6€ SvaddAdooovra Siaumepés ovdaud Arye, | Ta’Ty & alev eaow 
aklynroe kata Kixdov, Orph. frag. 223, 1 f. Abel af. Prokl. zz Plat. rem. ii. 339, 1 ff. 
Kroll otvek’ dweBoudvn Wuxy Kara KiKha xpdvoro (so Herwerden for xpévo.or) | avOpdrwy 
Four pmerépxerar GANoHev dddovs, Orph. frag. 225 Abel af. Olympiod. zz Plat. Phaed. 
p- 131, 9 ff. Norvin 67c wadatos 6 Novos, “Opdixés Te yap Kai IvOaydpecos, 6 rahw dywy Tas 
Wuxas els TO oHua Kal wahw amd TOU cwHuaTos avaywv Kal TovUTO KUKA® ToAaKts (see also 
Norvin’s Index p. 263 s.v. k0«dos), Orph. frag. 226 Abel af. Prokl. a Plat. 77m. iii. 
296, 7 ff. and 297, 6 ff. Diehl ia cwrnpia ris Yuxjs airy mapa Tov SnuLoupyod mporelvera 
TOU KUKXou THs yevéoews ataddaTTovea Kal THS ToAAS WAGYYS Kal THS avnviTou Fwis, | pos 
TO voepdy eldos THs WuxTs avadpouy Kal n pvyh TavTwy TeV Ex THS yeverews Huly TpooTedu- 
kéTwv'... waoav be riv Wuxny els Thy evdaiuova Tepiayouca (why amd THs mepl Thy yéverw 
mavys, ns Kal oi map’ Opdet TS Acoviow cal TH Kopyn TeNovmevor Tuxetv evxovTat, ‘ KUKOV 7’ 
dv AnEa kal dvarvetoat kakbrynTos.” K.T-A., Simplic. zz Aristot. de caclo p. 377, 12 ff. Heiberg 
evdeOnvar dé bd Tov Td Kar’ d&iav maou adopltovTos Snurouvpyod Beod év TH THs eluapuévyns 
Te Kal yevéoews Tpoxa@, ovmEp ddv’vaToy dmahdaynvat Kata Tov ’Opdéa wy Tods Meods 
éxetvous ihewoapevor, “ ols éméracev” 6 Leds “ KbKAou 7’ addddoae (4ANFEat cod. A.) Kal avaWdEar 
(aupdtae cod. A.) kaxérnros”’ ras dvOpwrivas puxds, Porph. ap. Stob. ecl. 1. 49. 60 p. 446, 
rr ff. Wachsmuth Opnpos d€ ri év Kixkdhw meplodov Kal mepupopay madvyyevecias Klpxnv 
TpoonyopevKev. 

? The use of the word orégavos to denote the Galaxy resembles Parmenides’ use of 
orepavn (Aét. 2. 7. 1 ap. Stob. ecl. 1. 22. 14 p. 195, 4 ff. Wachsmuth: see O. Gilbert Die 
meteorologischen Theorien des griechischen Altertums Leipzig 1907 pp- 96 n. 1, 102 n. 1, 
103 n. 1, and 684 n. 3). A. Dieterich de hymnis Orphicis Marpurgi Cattorum 189 
P- 34f. (=Aleine Schriften Leipzig and Berlin rg1r p. 95) goes off on a wrong tack. 
Miss J. E. Harrison in her Proleg. Gh. Rel.” p. 592 f. gets nearer to the truth. 

* This is seen by Miss J. E. Harrison Proleg. Gk. Rel. p. 588 ff-, who—perhaps 
wisely—refrains from attempting to determine the precise nature of the rites involved. 
J. H. Wieten of. ct. p. 97 ff. is more venturesome. On the strength (none too strong) of 
Psell. rlva rept Sacudvev doéagtovew “EXAnves; (printed in Psell. de operatione daemonum 
ed. J. F. Boissonade Norimbergae 1838 p. 36 ff.) p. 41 f. mupd 6€ moda KUKA@ TWh 
meprypapovres €Ed\Novra THs droyés. Hv Se Kal TOTO THs Tadatas Baxxelas, wa ph Néyw 
Mavias, mepis...0 dé ye KUKAos KaToxTs Exe Sivauww (quoted by Miss Harrison) and of Dion 
Chrys. ov. 12 p. 388 Reiske éru dé, ef (sc. mweptxopevorev airov) Kadrep cidbacw év TH 
Kaoupévy Opovicug kabicavres Tos uvoupévous of TehodvTES KUKAW meptxopevev he suggests 
that the initiate at Thourioi was placed in a circle of fires or surrounded by torch-bearing 
dancers and expected to leap over the fiery ring. He further contends (jd. p- roo ff.) that, 
having leapt out of the ring, the initiate next stepped quickly into a garland lying on the 
ground. Hence the golden garlands in the Bacchic procession of Ptolemy ii Philadelphos 
(Kallixenos of Rhodes frag. 2 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 64 Miiller) ap. Athen. 202 D); and 
hence too the Pythagorean symbol 41 Mullach orépavov wh riddew (Porph. v. Pyth. 42). 
But the part of Ptolemy’s show here adduced was subsequent to the Bacchic procession 


and the Soul-Ladder 121 


—How, exactly, did the Orphist ‘enter upon the lovely Crown’? 
We have seen reason to believe that, with a view to apotheosis’, he 
had ‘fallen as a kid into milk?’ Now Attic vase-paintings of the 
fifth century B.C. represent the Thracian women that slew Orpheus 
as tattooed with various symbols including a small goat and a 
ladder (fig. 76). And Attic vases of the late fifth or the fourth 





ray) 
— Pea 
Fig. 76 


(see Athen. 202 A kal wera Taira Avds iyeTo Toumh cal d\\wv waumd\d\wy Oedv, K.T.d.), 
and Wieten’s interpretation of the Pythagorean precept is confessedly different from 
that of Porph. doc. cit, Neither objection is necessarily fatal, but the whole hypothesis 
is frail. 

1M. Radin ‘ Apotheosis’ in the Class. Rev. 1916 xxx. 44—46 acutely remarks that 
‘the term [amo#éwo.s] was intended to denote not merely the elevation of 2 mortal to 
divinity [éx@éwors], but to assert of such an elevation that it was a movement in the 
Orphic cycle, a vestztutio in pristinum statum. 

2 Supra i. 675 ff. 

3 (1) A fragmentary 2f//ix with white ground, found in 1888 on the Akropolis at 
Athens (J. E. Harrison ‘Some fragments of a vase presumably by Euphronios’ in the 
Journ. Hell. Stud. 1888 ix. 143—146 pl. 6, part of which=my fig. 76, G. C. Richards 
7b. 1894 xiv. 381 f., W. Klein Die griechischen Vasen mit Lieblingsinschriften Leipzig 
1898 p. 154 f., O. Gruppe in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 1184 fig. 9, Furtwangler— Reichhold 


122 The Pillar of Light 


Gr. Vasenmaleret i. 284, Perrot—Chipiez Hzst. de 2 Art x. 707 ff. fig. 387 f.), has for 


interior design Orpheus (OP@EVs) attacked by a Thracian woman. He sinks, bleeding, 
to the ground, supported no doubt by his left hand, and defending himself with the lyre 
uplifted in his right. His assailant holds in her right hand a double axe (missing portion 
subsequently found—/ourn. Hell. Stud. 1894 xiv. 381), beneath which appears a kalds- 


name (probably FAav«O N) and an uncertain object (? handle of large spit : Miss Harrison 


aptly cp. Mon. d. Just. ix pl. 30). She grasps the singer’s arm with her left hand, and 
sets her foot against his thigh. She has three tattoo-marks—a small goat (not a stag; the 
legs are too short for that) on her right upper arm, a ladder beneath the bracelet on her 
left wrist, and four vertical strokes on her neck. The vase may be dated c. 470—460 B.C. 

(2) Pl. v, a ‘Nolan’ amphora from Capua, now in the British Museum (Azz. AZus. 
Cat. Vases iii. 218 no. E 301), shows a similar scene painted in the style of Douris. The 
Thracian woman in a, but not in 4, has a check-pattern on the front of her neck, the 
inside of her right forearm, and the instep of each foot. The photographs here reproduced 
are by Mr R. B. Fleming. 

(3) A ‘Nolan’ amphora from the Durand collection, now in the Louvre (Pottier Caz. 
Vases du Louvre iii. 1109 no. G 436, T. Panofka in the Azmn. d. Inst. 1829 i. 265 ff., 
Mon. ad. Inst.i pl. 5, 2, Reinach Rép. Vases i. 63, 4, O. Gruppe in Roscher Lex. AZyth. 
iii. 1185), represents the same scene. The Thracian woman has a pattern of ivy-leaves (?) 
down either arm. 

(4) A ‘Nolan’ amphora at Munich (Jahn Vasensamml. Miinchen p. 126 f. no. 383, 
A. Flasch in the Ann. d. Just. 1871 xliii. 127, O. Gruppe in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 
1188) has the same design, the woman’s arms being decorated with a >>>-pattern 
(? ivy-leaves). 

(5) A red-figured stémnos from the Campana collection, now in the Louvre (Pottier 
Cat. Vases du Louvre iii. 1103 no. G. 416, A. Flasch in the Amz. d. Just. 1871 xliii. 
126 ff., Won. d. Inst. ix pl. 30, Reinach Ré. Vases i. 186, O. Gruppe in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. iii. 1184 ff. fig. 10), amplifies the scene by adding five other Thracian women. 
Four out of the six are tattooed, one with a series of short strokes on either arm, another 
with short strokes on the neck and on the one arm visible, a third with short strokes on 
the neck and a long line on either arm, a fourth with two vertical lines on the neck. 

(6) A red-figured elébe at Munich (Jahn Vasensamml. Miinchen p. 241 no. 777, 
A. Flasch in the Azz. d. Znst. 1871 xliii. 127, O. Gruppe in Roscher Lex. AZjth. iii. 
1188) has obv. a Thracian woman, with sword in right hand, sheath in left, whose arms 
and legs are painted with zig-zag patterns; on either upper arm is a stag (‘ Hirsch’ 
Jahn), on the knee a star with a stag (‘ Hirsch’ Jahn) beneath it: rev. a Thracian woman 
running with outstretched arms; her arms and legs are again patterned with zig-zags. 
Orpheus does not appear. 

These vases together with some others, on which the women are not tattooed, 
presuppose—as O. Gruppe in Roscher Lex. JZyth. iii. 1184—1188 points out—‘ eine 
gemeinsame Vorlage.’ Possibly the original was an unrecorded fresco by Polygnotos (not 
the Orpheus-scene in the Cnidian Lésche at Delphoi: supra i. 537), who as a Thasian by 
birth would be familiar with the customs of Thrace. 

For monumental evidence of tattooing in palaeolithic times see J. Déchelette AZanwel 
Larchéologie préhistorique Paris 1908 i. 203 ff. and Index p. 730, in neolithic times 7a. 2d. 
i. 565 ff. and Index p. 730. Bronze-age examples include a marble idol from Seriphos, 
the face of which is painted with transverse rows of red dots across forehead, cheeks, and 
chin (C. Blinkenberg ‘ Antiquités prémycéniennes’ in the AZémoires de la Société royale 
des Antiquaires du Nord Copenhague 1896 p. 48 fig. 13, J. Déchelette of. cit. i. 597 fig. 1), 
a marble head from Amorgos with lines of red on forehead, nose, and cheeks (P. Wolters 
“Marmorkopf aus Amorgos’ in the Ath. Mitth. 1891 xvi. 46—58, Perrot—Chipiez Hist. 
de Art vi. 742 f. fig. 336), a white limestone idol from the neighbourhood of Sparta 
with quadruple chevrons incised on its right upper-arm and quadruple squares on its left 
upper-arm (P, Wolters in the Ath. Mitth. 1891 xvi. 52 f. fig. 1, Perrot—Chipiez Hist. 








Amphora from Capua, now in the British M$ 


Plate V 


alls . 
eee eae | 


‘ 





Orpheus attacked by Thracian women. 





and the Soul-Ladder 123 


de 1’ Art vi. 741 ff. fig. 334), a female (?) head in painted plaster from Mykenai with 
a rosette of red dots on forehead, chin, and either cheek (Ch. Tsountas ‘ Kepand? éx 
Muxnvdv’ in the "Ed. ’Apx. 1902 pp. I—1o pl. rt). Even in the iron age similar practices 
persisted: the Louvre possesses an archaic terra cotta, said to have been found in Greece, 
which represents a nude standing female with incised circles of dots round her breasts, 
round her navel, and on her thighs (E. Pottier in the Xev. Arch. 1899 i. to fig. 7), and 
an archaic terra cotta from Boiotia, which shows a draped standing female with a circular 
black patch on either cheek (Collignon His¢. de la Sculpt. gr. i. 109 fig. 55). A kylix of 
Ionic style from Vulci, now at Berlin, has a running Maenad with a small circular red 
patch on her cheek (J. Endt Beztvdge sur Jonischen Vasenmaleret Prag 1899 p. 35 fig. 15, 
J. Boehlau ‘ Die Jonischen Augenschalen’ in the dzh. AZitth. 1900 xxv. 50 ff. fig. 10 ‘ ein 
unverkennbares rotes Schénheitspflasterchen’!). The black-brown figures represented 
on Tanagra-ware (S. Wide ‘ Eine lokale Gattung boiotischer Gefisse’ in the Ath. Mitth. 
1gOI xxvi. 143—156 pl. 8) have sometimes, if not always, a group of three dots in thinned- 
out colour on either cheek (4rit. Mus. Cat. Vases iii. 385 no. E 813 pl. 21, 1, 24. iii. 385 
no. E 814 pl. 21, 2f.: but see Wide Joc. cit. p. 146 no. 3=Collignon—Couve Caz. Vases 
a’ Athenes p. 350 no. 111g, p. 146f. no. 4, pp. 147 f. 150 ff. pl. 8=Collignon—Couve 
op. ctl. p. 350 no. 1120). On a terra-cotta antefix from Thasos (C. Fredrich in the Azz. 
Mitth. 1908 xxxiii. 245 f. pl. 10 Gorgéneion with floral design on forehead, rosette on 
nose, etc.) and on various classes of black-figured ware prophylactic faces show tattoo- 
marks (e.g. De Ridder Cat. Vases de la Bibl. Nat. i. gof. no. 182 fig. g Ionic vase-lid— 
Gorgéneion with four dots on forehead, zd. 20. i. 219 ff. no. 322 fig. 39 Attic k~dix— 
Gorgéneion with large round black spot on forehead, zd. 7d. i. 216 ff. no. 321 fig. 38 Attic 
Aylix—interior, Gorgénezon with row of dots on forehead; exterior, eyes forming.part of 
face with four dots on forehead). 

Literature attests the custom of tattooing for Thracians (Hdt. 5. 6, Klearchos /rag. 8 
(Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 306 Miiller) af. Athen. 524 D—k, Phanokles af. Stob. flor. 64. 14 
(ed. Gaisford ii. 419), Cic. de off. 2. 25, Strab. 315, Plout. de sera num. vind. 12, Dion 
Chrys. ov. 14 p. 442 Reiske, Artemid. ovezvocr. 1. 8, Eustath. zz Z/. p. 933, 7, 2d. in 
Dionys. fer. 322, anon. Pythag. ass. 2 de honesto et turpi (T. Gale Opuscula mythologica, 
ethica et physica Cantabrigiz 1671 p. 56= Opuscula mythologica physica & ethica Amstele- 
dami 1688 p. 712f.) and for Agathyrsi (Verg. Aez. 4. 146, Mela 2. 10, Solin. 15. 3, 
Amm. Marc. 31. 2. 14, interp. Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 4. 146, cp. Plin. zat. hist. 4. 88), 
Daci (Plin. zaz. hist. 7. 50, 22. 2), Geloni (Verg. georg. 2. 115 with Serv. ad loc., Claud. 
in Rufin. 1. 313), Getai (Artemid. ovezrocr. 1. 8, cp. Dionysophanes af. Porph. v. Pyth. 
14f.), Harii (Tac. Germ. 43), lapodes (Strab. 315), Illyrioi (Strab. 315), Sarmatai (Plin. 
nat. hist. 22. 2, Sext. Pyrrhon. hyfpot. 3. 24 p. 286f. Fabricius), as also for Britanni 
(Caes. de bell. Gall. 5. 14, Mela 3. 51, Plin. wat. hist. 22. 2, Herodian. 3. 14. 7, cp. Solin. 
22. 12), Picti (Claud. de bello Getico 416 ff., Isid. or¢g. 19. 23. 7), Scoti (Isid. orzg. g. 2. 
103), Kylikranes (Polemon frag. 56 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 133 Miiller) af. Athen. 462 a and 
Hesych. s.v. Kudtkpdvwv), Mossynoikoi (Xen. az. 5. 4. 32), Aithiopes (Sext. Pyrrhon. 
hypot. 1. 14 p. 66 Fabricius, cp. 2b. 3. 24 p. 287, Lyd. de mens. 4. 53 p. 110, 16 ff. 
Wiinsch and Sir W. M. Flinders Petrie Kahun, Gurob, and Hawara London 1890 p. 30, 
id. Iilahun, Kahun and Gurob London 1891 p. g pl. 13, 20), Assyrioi (Loukian. de dea 
Syr. 59: supra i. 593 no. 0). Mithraic ‘soldiers’ were marked on the forehead (Tertull. 
de praescr. haeret. 40, cp. Greg. Naz. adv. Julian. t. 70 (xxxv. 592 Migne))—a practice 
compared by G. Anrich Das antike Mysterienwesen in seinem Einfluss auf das Christentum 
Gottingen 1894 p. 123 f., not only with the Roman custom of marking military recruits 
(Veget. efit. ret milit. 1. 8, 2. 5, Aetios of Amida 8. 12, T. Ruinart Acta martyrum 
Ratisbonae 1859 p. 341 acta Maximiliani), but also with such usages as those of Kybele- 
worshippers (Prudent. Aeristeph. 10. 1076 ff.) and other devotees (Philon de monarch. 1. 8), 
the followers of the Gnostic Marcus (Eiren. ¢c. haeres. 1. 20. 4= Hippol. ref. haeres. 7. 32 
p- 404 Duncker—Schneidewin), and even the Christian opparyis (‘baptism’) (Herakleon 
frag. 49 Brooke af. Clem. Al. ecl. proph. 25. 1 p. 143, 22 ff. Stahlin). See further 
J. Rhodius on Scribonius Largus composit. med. 231 (ed. Patav. 1655 p. 308 ff.), Schrader 


124 The Pillar of Light 


century repeatedly introduce a ladder into scenes of mystic incense- 
gathering (?)!, such as that on a fine polychrome fydrta from 
Kyrenaike, now in the British Museum (pl. vi)’, or those on a 
couple of aryballot from Apollonia in Thrace, which passed from 
the Van Branteghem collection to the Hermitage and Berlin 
respectively (pl. vii)’. It is therefore permissible to conjecture that 
the Orphic initiate actually mounted a ladder in order to ensure his 
entrance upon the Elysian soul-path‘*. 


Reallex. p. 851f., H. Hepding Adtis seine Mythen und sein Kult Gieszen 1903 p. 163 
n. 2, W. Dennison in the 4m. Journ. Arch. 1905 ix. 37, and the monograph of W. Jost 
Titowiren, Narbenzeichnen, und Korperbemalen Berlin 1887 pp. 43 f., 102 f. 

1 See the materials collected by F. Wieseler Com:mentatio de scala symbolo apud Graecos 
aliosque populos veteres Gottingae 1863 pp. 3—17- The list of vase-paintings 7d. p. 3 f. 
must, however, be used with caution, since Wieseler appears to have included certain 
representations of a musical instrument resembling a dulcimer in shape (G. Nicole in 
Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iv. 1108 f.). The subject has been handled with more 
discretion by Furtwangler—Reichhold Gr. Vasenmalere? ii. 98 f. pl. 78, £ (‘eine festliche, 
von Aphrodite und Eros vorgenommene Wethrauchernte’) and by G. Nicole Aleidias et 
le style fleurt dans la céramique attigue Genéve 1908 Append. ii ‘ Sur le motif de l’échelle 
dans les scenes de gynécée’ with fig. 43 and pl. 8, 1—6, pl. 9 (‘une récolte mystique de 
Vencens, féte religieuse accompagnée de mélodies et de danses sacrées’). Not improbably 
the gatherer mounted the ladder to symbolise the celestial nature of the harvesting. 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases iii. 186 no. E 241, G. Nicole Medias et le style fleurt dans la 
céramigue attigue Geneve 1908 p. 150 fig. 43. My pl. viis from a photograph taken by 
Mr C. O. Waterhouse. In the centre is a long ladder, and beside it a tall plant with berries 
(gilded) in clusters of three. Aphrodite (?), bare to the waist, descends the ladder and 
scatters something into a two-handled vase held by a woman (drapery blue)—hardly 
Adonis, as Furtwangler of. cz¢. ii. 9g asserts. On the right another woman closely 
wrapped in a Azmdtion (pink), which passes over her mouth, dances to the flutes of a 
hovering Eros (wings gilded). Further to the right is a second dancing woman, who 
plays the castanets. On the left are a third dancing woman, a woman playing the flutes, 
and a small bearded Pan, with goat’s legs and horns (gilded ?), also dancing. Height 
15% Ins. 

3 W. Froehner Collection van Branteghem Bruxelles 1892 nos. 98 and gg pl. 31—34 
(=my pl. vii), G. Nicole of. cc¢. p. 150 f. pl. 8, 5 and 6. Variations of the same scene, 
marked by the presence of a ¢thymiatérion, which on a polychrome aldbastyon from 
Naukratis (E. A. Gardner—F. Ll. Griffith Mawkraizs Part ii London 1888 p. 28 pl. 16, 
20, Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases iii. 355 no. E 721, G. Nicole of. c#z. p. 150 ff. pl. 8, 1) is held 
by Eros as he descends the ladder. 

+ In an elegiac epitaph from JDowxazo near Philippoi the soul that has entered the 
Elysian fields is brought into connexion with the tattooed mystics of Dionysos (L. Heuzey— 
H. Daumet JZisston Archéologique de Macédoine Paris 1876 Texte p. 128 ff. no. 61, Cor. 
anscr. Lat. ili no. 686, 11 ff., F. Biicheler Carmina Latina epigraphica Lipsiae 1897 ii. 
577 ff. no. 1233, 11 ff. [tu placidus, dum nos crJuciamur volnere victi, | et reparatus item 
vivis in Elysiis. | sic placitum est divis a[e]terna vivere formf{a] | qui bene de supero 
{nJumine sit meritus: | quae tibi castifico promisit munera cursu | olim iussa deo simpli- 
citas facilis. | nunc seu te Bromio signatae mystidis aise | florigero in prato congregi in 
Satyrum | sive canistriferae poscunt sibi Naides aequ[e] | qui ducibus taedis agmina festa 
trahas, | sis quodcumque, puer, quo te tua protulit aetas, | dum modo [-~--]. The 
meaning of mystzdis atse is doubtful. Biicheler ad Joc. takes mystidis to be for mystides, 
adding ‘an nomen pueri hic fuit ut desi?’ F. C. Wick in Studi ttaliani di filologia 
classica £909 xvii. 198 f. (a reference for which I am indebted to Mr A. D. Nock of 


Plate VI 





Polychrome Aydria from Kyrenaike, now in the British Museum : 


scene of mystic incense-gathering (?). 


See page 124 1. 2. 





Plate VII 


[aes 





Two aryballod from Apollonia in Thrace, representing 
scenes of mystic incense-gathering (?). 


See page 124 2. 3. 





and the Soul-Ladder 134 


In support of that conjecture I may point out, not only that 
Pindar in a passage already cited speaks of the celestial track as a 
‘dread stair’ or ‘ladder’, but also that Orphic belief thus falls into 
line with the beliefs of other peoples. Amulets in the shape of 











Fig. 77. 


little bronze ladders (fig. 77)—a magical means of getting to heaven 
—have been found in Roman graves*. They recall the Egyptian 


amulet of the ladder, = about which E. A. Wallis Budge writes 





as follows: 


‘In tombs of the Ancient and Middle Empires small objects of wood and 
other substances in the form of ladders have often been found, but the significa- 
tion of them is not always apparent. From the texts inscribed upon the walls of 


Trinity College, Cambridge) cj. AZystédes aere (=sistro). But H. Daumet of. cit. p. 130 
long since suggested aion (=aioa), and personally I would rather keep mystidz’s ase as a 
Latinised equivalent of wéoridos aicy (cp. e.g. Ap. Rhod. 3. 3 Kimpidos atcay). Biicheler 
retains congregi in Satyrum as meaning ‘in the company (adj. for subst.) of the Satyrs 
(gen. plur.).’ He had thought of congregzum, which might be accepted either as an 
irregular gen. plur. of congrex, or as acc. sing. of comgreg?us, a new formation on the 
analogy of egregzus. 

SUPT Os 

? A small bronze ladder together with many other amulets was found in 1696 A.D. 
near Rome within the remains of a bronze £éste, itself enclosed in a jar of coarse pottery 
and protected bya tile (Gerhard A¢r. Spiegel i. 36—46 pl. 12 f., of which pl. 12, 1, 4, 6=my 
fig. 77, O. Jahn in the Ber. sachs. Gesellsch. ¢. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1854 p. 41 n. 44% 
pl. 5, 1, p. 48 n. 69% pl. 4, 5 f., p. 58 n. 116, p. o4f. pl. 4, 15, S. Seligmann Der ddse 
Blick und Verwandtes Berlin 1910 ii. 296, 365 fig. 214); it is now in the Naples Museum 
(E. Gerhard—T. Panofka Meapels antike Bildwerke Stuttgart 1828 p. 231 f. Zimmer v 
Schrank 8). Two small bronze ladders, found with other amulets and coins of Marcus 
Aurelius and Constantine the Great in Roman graves at Cologne, are now in the Museum 
at Bonn (J. Overbeck Katalog der hinigl. rheinischen Museums vaterlindischer Alter- 
thiimer Bonn 1851 p. 146 Karte no. 8 f., O. Jahn in the Ber. sdchs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. 
Phil.-hist. Classe 1854 p. 41 n. 44%). 


126 The Pillar of Light 


the corridors and chambers of the pyramids of Unas, Teta, Pepi, and other 
early kings, it is clear that the primitive Egyptians believed that the floor of 
heaven, which also formed the sky of this world, was made of an immense plate 
of iron, rectangular in shape, the four corners of which rested upon four pillars 
which served to mark the cardinal points. On this plate of iron lived the gods 
and the blessed dead, and it was the aim of every good Egyptian to go there 
after death. At certain sacred spots the edge of the plate was so near the tops 
of the mountains that the deceased might easily clamber on to it and so obtain 
admission into heaven, but at others the distance between it and the earth was 
so great that he needed help to reach it. There existed a belief that Osiris 
himself experienced some difficulty of getting up to the iron plate, and that it 
was only by means of the ladder which his father Ra provided that he at length 
ascended into heaven. On one side of the ladder stood Ra, and on the other 
stood Horus}, the son of Isis, and each god assisted Osiris to mount it. 
Originally the two guardians of the ladder were Horus the Elder and Set, and 
there are several references in the early texts to the help which they rendered to 
the deceased, who was, of course, identified with the god Osiris. But, with a view 
either of reminding these gods of their supposed duty, or of compelling them to 
do it, the model of a ladder was often placed on or near the dead body in the 
tomb, and a special composition was prepared which had the effect of making 
the ladder become the means of the ascent of the deceased into heaven. Thus 
in the text written for Pepi? the deceased is made to address the ladder in these 
words : “‘ Homage to thee, O divine Ladder! Homage to thee, O Ladder of Set ! 
Stand thou upright, O divine Ladder! Stand thou upright, O Ladder of Set ! 
Stand thou upright, O Ladder of Horus, whereby Osiris came forth into heaven 
when he made use of his magical power upon Ra.... For Pepi is thy son, and 
Pepi is Horus, and thou hast given birth unto Pepi even as thou hast given birth 
unto the god who is the lord of the Ladder (z.¢., Horus) ; and thou shalt give unto 
Pepi the Ladder of the god (z.¢., Horus), thou shalt give unto him the Ladder of 
the god Set whereby this Pepi shall come forth into heaven when he shall have 
made use of his magical power upon Ra....” Elsewhere® the gods Khonsu, 
Sept, etc., are invoked to bring the ladder to Pepi, and the ladder itself is 
adjured to come with its name, and in another place* we read, “ Homage to 
thee, O thou Ladder that supportest the golden vase of the Spirits of Pe and the 
Spirits of Nekhen, stretch out thy hand to this Pepi, and let him take his seat 
between the two great gods who are in the place of this Pepi; take him by the 
hand and lead him towards Sekhet-Hetep (z.e., the Elysian Fields), and let him 
take his seat among the stars which are in the sky.” 

In the Theban Recension of the Book of the Dead the importance of the 
ladder is also seen, for in Chapter CXLIX.® the deceased says, “I set up a Ladder 
among the gods, and I am a divine being among them”; and in Chapter CLIII. 
he says, “The Osiris Nu shall come forth upon your Ladder which Ra hath 
made for him, and Horus and Set shall grasp him firmly by the hand.” Finally, 
when the custom of placing a model of the ladder in the tomb fell into disuse, 
the priests provided for the necessity of the dead by painting a ladder on the 


papyri that were inscribed with the texts from the Book of the Dead and were 
buried with them®’7 


Unas, line 579. 2 Line 192 f. 3 Pepi, line 200. * Pi, line 471. 
See my Chapters of Coming Forth by Day, translation, p. 270. 

See the Papyrus of Ani, md edition, pl. 22. 

E, A. Wallis Budge, Zgyptcan Magic London 1899 pp. 51—55. Cp. zd. The Gods 


and the Soul-Ladder 127 


Such beliefs were not without their influence on the receptive 
and superstitious Greek. P. Aelius Aristeides of Adrianoi in Mysia 
(129—189 A.D.) was the son of Eudaimon priest of Zeus in that 
city’, and apparently succeeded to the office’, if not to the title of 
his father*. As a life-long invalid he was devoted to the cults of 





Asklepios and Sarapis‘; and, among the dreams vouchsafed him 
during a protracted illness, he records with a shudder that of the 
ladders which separate the world above from the world below’. 

The celestial ladder (fig. 78)® is associated with a pillar’ in the 
Biblical account of Jacob at Bethel : 


‘And Jacob went out from Beer-sheba, and went toward Haran. And he 


of the Egyptians London 1904 i. 167 f., 490, ii. 92, 241 f., G. Maspero in the Revue de 
Vhistotre des religions 1887 xv. 279 ff.. A. Erman A Handbook of Egyptian Religion 
trans. A. S. Griffith London 1907 pp. 96, 145 fig. 697, 188, A. Jeremias ‘Die Pan- 
babylonisten, der alte Orient und die agyptische Religion’? in /wz Kampfe um den alten 
Orient Nr. i Leipzig 1907 p. 62. 

1 Philostr. v. soph. 2. 9. t, Souid. s.v. Apioreldns, Adpiaveds. 

2 Aristeid. 07. 23. 282 (i. 455 Dindorf), 27. 357 (i. 545 Dindorf): see W. Schmid in 
Pauly—Wissowa Real-Lnc. ii. 886. 

® Philostr. loc. c7t., Souid. loc. czt. 4 W. Schmid /oc. cit. ii. 887 ff. 

> Aristeid. ov. 25. 320 (i. 500f. Dindorf) rodd 6€é te Todrwv ppixwdéorepov eixe TH 
xpbvw warepoy pavbévra, év ois ai te On KNiakes Noay ai 7d Urep ys Te Kal bwd yas 
aoplfovga, kal Td ExatépwOt Kparos Tod Beov, Kal Erepa exmAniw Oavuacrny Pépovta, Kal 
ovdé pyra lows els drayTas, woTe douévw for Pavnvar cUuBora TOD AcKkAnTiod. Kepddaroy 
& qv mepl THs TOD Oeod Suvduews Ore kal xwpls dxnudtrwy Kal xwpls cwudrwy 6 Vdpamis olds 
7 ein Kouifew avOpwmous brn BovNo.To. To.adTa HY Ta THS TeAETAS* Kal avéorny od pad.os 
yuplioa. Kat mpos Tovrots Ovcia Tis €dnAoTO, dpetouévyn wéev Aw Kal mpoppynow pévovod, 
amodobeica dé ws Too Lapdmidos ova, dwedd0n 5é Kal ws Tw Ati, exw dé Néyew Kav Tals 
iepats nuépas, as 4% mods 7 Tov ’AdeEavdpéwy moet TH Oew@, moda 5H woANAKis a’Tov 
éemionunvarTa, Kal kar alrhy éexdorny, Kal mpocayayovons ert. 

6 From Herrade de Landsberg Hortus Deliciarum edd. A. Straub—G. Keller Stras- 
bourg 1879—1899 p. irf. pl. 12, 2 a twelfth-century illustration (zz/ra p. 136). 

7 Presumably the AZassebhoth, the mark of an ordinary sanctuary. 


128 The Pillar of Light 


lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was 
set; and he took one of the stones of the place, and put it under his head, and 
lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up 
on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God 
ascending and descending on it. And, behold, the LorD stood above it..... And 
_ Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD is in this place ; 
and I knew it not. And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! 
this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. And 
Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put under 
his head, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it. And he 
called the name of that place Beth-el: but the name of the city was Luz at the 
first*’ 

Ladder and pillar coalesce in the stepped tower or azkkurat of 
the Babylonians?, as in the columna cochlis of the Romans, to which 
indeed the spiral tower of Samarra (s. ix A.D.)—a direct derivative 
of the s¢kkurat—bears a marked resemblance*. The seven steps of 
the sckkurat—eight, if we reckon in, as Herodotos does‘, the 
sanctuary on the summit—have undoubtedly a cosmic significance’, 


1 Gen. 28. 10 ff. For discussion of the passage in its various aspects see 77 primis 
J. Skinner A critical and exegetical Commentary on Genesis Edinburgh 1910 pp. 375—380. 

2 Supra i. 603. A useful summary of the present state of knowledge on the subject 
will be found in A. Jeremias Handbuch der altorientalischen Geisteskultur Leipzig 1913 
pp- 44-47. The article by Scheil there cited as forthcoming has since appeared (F. V. 
Scheil ‘Esagil ou le temple de Bél-Marduk a Babylone’ in the AZémozves de 1 Académie 
des inscriptions (Institut de France) présentés par divers savants 1913 XXxix. 293—308, 
cp. M. Dieulafoy ‘Temple de Bél-Marduk’ 7d. pp. 309—372). 

3 E. Herzfeld Samarra Berlin 1907 pp. 23—36 pl. 3. Good photographs are repro- 
duced by M. Jastrow Aspects of Religious Belief and Practice in Babylonia and Assyria 
New York and London rgrr p. 291 pl. 23,2, A. Jeremias Handbuch der altorientalischen 
Getsteskultur Leipzig 1913 p. 44 n. 5 fig. 26, Capt. K. A. C. Creswell in the Bulletin de 
2 Institut francais ad’ Archéologie orientale 191g xvi pl. I fig. B. 

4 Hdt. 1. 181 ff. é€v 6€ pdpoet éxatépw THs ods TeTelxicTO Ev péow’ VY TH HEV TH 
Bacrdrhia, mepBd\w peyddy Te Kal isxupe* év 5€ TO érépw Avds Bijou (supra i. 756 n. 6) 
ipov XadkorruNop, Kal és €ue TOUTO Ett Edy, Sto cTadiwy mavTn, dv TeTPAywVoV. EV eT OE TOU 
ipod miipyos orepeds oikoddunrat oradiov kal To wAKos Kal TO efpos* Kai éml TovTwW TO Tipyw 
&idNos mipyos éeriBEBnke, Kal Erepos pada emi TovTw, MExps OD OKTH TUpywy. avdBacrs dé és 
avrovs whey KiKNw Tepl mavTas Tovs wupyous éxovca meToinrar. wecovvTL OE KOU Tis 
avaBdovos €or kaTaywyy TE Kal OGxor dumavornpio, ev Toor KatifovTes aumavovTat oi ava- 
Balvovres. &v 5é 76 TeNEvTAalw TUpyw vos erecte péyas* év OE THrNw KNivyn meyady KéeTaL Ev 
éeoTpwpuevn, Kal ol Tpdmeva mapakéerac xpucén. ciyadua de ovdk eve ovdev adrdAr Evidpupuevov * 
ode viKkTa ovdels evauvrlferar avOpwHrwy, OTL pH yuvn potvn TOV emixwpiwy, THY dv Oo Oeds 
é\nra €x macéwy, ws Néyouor of XaNdator, édvres ipées rovUTou Tod Oeod. x.7.d. For a critical 
handling of this and other references to the z¢kkuvat at Babylon see A. Baumstark in 
Pauly—Wissowa feal-Enc. ii. 2688ff., and for a description of the extant remains, 
hk. Koldewey The Excavations at Babylon trans. (Mrs) A. S. Johns London rg1q4. 

° M. Jastrow Aspects of Religious Belief and Practice in Babylonia and Assyria New 
York and London rgi1 p. 286f: ‘While no special stress seems, at any time, to have 
been laid on the number of stories or stages of which a zikkurat consisted, ...seven stages 
seems to have become the normal number, after a certain period. There seems to be no 
reason to doubt that this number was chosen to correspond to the moon, sun, and five 
planets, which we have seen were the controlling factors in the Babylonian-Assyrian 


and the Soul-Ladder 129 


and correspond with the seven or eight steps of the Mithraic ladder’ 
or, for that matter, with the Sabian ladder of the seven planets’. 
Fortified by these examples of the soul-ladder as conceived in 
other parts of the Mediterranean world—to go no further afield*— 
we return to Thrace and the Orphists. Otos and Ephialtes, who 
essayed to pile Ossa on Olympos and Pelion on Ossa, ‘that the 


astrology. Gudea describes the 2/4hurat at Lagash known as E-Pa as the ‘‘house of the 
seven divisions!” [! Thureau-Dangin, Swmerisch-Akkadische Inschriften, pp. 76, 84, 86, 
etc.]; and from the still fuller designation of the tower at Borsippa as the ‘seven 
divisions of heaven and earth,” it would appear that in both cases there is a symbolical 
reference to the ‘seven planets,” as the moon, sun, and five planets were termed by the _ 
Babylonians themselves? [? Rawlinson, 111. Plate 57, No. 6, 65.].’ Etc. Cp. zd. The 
Religion of Babylonia and Assyria Boston etc. 1898 pp. 618 ff., 639. 

1 Orig. c. Cels. 6. 21 f. Emrad dé ovpavods 7} ws TEpiwpicuévoy apiOudy air&v ai pepd- 
pevae €v Tals éxx\nolats Tod Aeod ovK amayyéANovor ypadal, ad ovpavods, elre Tas sHalpas 
Tav map “ENnot Neyouévwv mavjrwv eire Kal GAO TL amroppyTéTepoy Eolkacr diddoKe ob 
Oyo. Kal 7d ddov dé elvac Tals Wuxats és yhv Kal dro yas Kédoos wév xara UAdrwvd pyoe 
ywerOa dia THv TavyTwv* Mwiiofs dé, 6 apxabraros nuay mpopyrns, ev OWe To mar- 
pidpxov nuav “laxwB pow éwpachar Oeiov évirrviov, kAiwara ‘‘els odpavov”’ POdvovecay Kal 
ayyéNous “tod Geod” dvaBalvovras kal kataBalvovras ér’ adras, Tov dé Kipioy émecTn- 
puyuévov éml rots dxpos aris, elre Tadra eire Twa pelfova To’Tw aiviTtrépevos Ev TH TeEpl 
THs KNiwakos yw" Tepl js kal TH Pitwve ouvvtéraxrar BiBNiov, déov Ppoviwov Kal ouvverijs 
mapa Tots Piradnerw é&erdoews (cp. Philon de somnzzs 1. 22 (i. 641 f. Mangey)). €&js de 
Tovras Boudduevos 6 Kédcos moduudbeay éavrod émdelEacOa év To Kad’ ua oyw 
éxrideral twa Kal Ileporxa wvornpia év ols pyow* alvirrerar Tavra Kal 6 Iepo@y Néyos, Kal 
H Tov MiOpou rederH, 7 (7) ins. Keim) map’ avrots éorw. eote yap Te év avTH cUuBorov TaY 
dvo0 Tv ev ovpavy Trepiddwy, THs TE AwavOds Kal Tis Els TOUS TAAaYHTAS ad veveuNnuevys, Kal THS 
Oe ary Tijs Wux is SreEddov. Tovdvde TO cUuBodov* KNjuak WWimvdos (Errdmudos cj. Koetschau 
post Boherellum), ért 6’ atrq midn dyd6y (ém’ adry dé ridac Exrd cj. Guiet). 7) rpwrn TGV 
muA@v moNiBdou, K.T.d. cited supra i. 626 n. 0). The Mithraic doctrine is discussed by 
F. Cumont Zextes et monuments figurés relatifs aux mysteres de Mithra Bruxelles 1899 i. 
37 ff., 1896 ii. 243 ff. fig. 77, 2d. in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 3057, 2d. in Daremberg—Saglio 
Dict. Ant. il. 1953, td. Dze Mysterien des Mithra® trans. G. Gehrich Leipzig 1911 
p- 129f. See further Lobeck Aglaophamus ii. 934, G. Kroll De oraculis Chaldaicis 
Vratislaviae 1894 pp. 63 (citing from Psellos é&jynous eis Ta Xaddaika Abyia (cxxii. 1132B 
Migne) the lines un<d€> kdrw vedons’ Kpnuvos kata ys brdxerra | émramdpov cipwy KaTa 
Babuldos* tip’ wo ris “Avdykns Opdvos éoriy (an leg. jv tm’ “AvdyKns | ore Opdvos?), 
where the éw7dzopos BaOuis is equivalent to Origen’s kNtuaké érrdmudos), 76 Add., Gruppe 
Cult. Myth. orient. Rel. i. 665, id. in the Jahresbericht tiber die Fortschritle der classischen 
Alterthumswissenschaft 1896 \xxxv. 266, zd. Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1599 f.. W. Anz Zur Frage 
nach dem Ursprung des Gnostizismus Leipzig 1897 p. 86 ff., W. Bousset ‘Die Himmels- 
reise der Seele’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1gor iv. 160 ff. 

2 D. Chwolsohn Die Ssabier und der Ssabismus St Petersburg 1856 ii. 610 cites from 
Makrisi (1364—1441 A.D.) the following statement: ‘Unter diesen geistigen Wesen 
verstehen sie die Engel, von denen sie glauben, dass sie die Leiter der sieben Planeten in 
deren Himmelskreisen seien,’ etc. 

3 A pilaster-relief from the s##fa of Bharhut, now at Calcutta, shows ‘the great 
Ladder by which Buddha descended at Sankisa from the Trayastrinsas heavens’ as ‘a 
triple flight of solid stone steps, similar in all respects to the single flight of steps which 
was found at the Western Gateway of the Stipa’ (A. Cunningham Zhe Stipa of Bharhut 
London 1879 p. gi ff. pl. 17 railing-pillars of West Gate, middle relief of right side ; 
A. della Seta Religion & Art trans. Mrs A. Strong London 1914 p. 306 fig. 167). 


Crit: 9 


130 The Pillar of Light 


sky might be climbable?, are connected in many ways with northern 
Greece®. K. O. Miller even regarded them as the mythical leaders 
of the Thracian colonies*. It is therefore noteworthy that Pindar 


speaks of them as— 
Stretching in haste 


A ladder to the steep sky*. 
This manoeuvre is usually described as a menace to the gods. But 
it must be remembered that Ephialtes was wooing Hera, and Otos 
Artemis®. Their presumption was that of aspirants to the hand of 


a goddess. 

A curious historic or gwasz-historic parallel to the enterprise of 
the Aloadai is that of Kosingas the Thracian chief, who threatened 
to clamber up a long chain of ladders into heaven and so gain the 
ear of Hera. The tale is told by Polyainos'®: 


‘The Kebrenioi and Sykaiboai are Thracian tribes. Their custom is to have 
as leaders the priests of Hera. They had a priest and leader named Kosingas. 
The Thracians would not obey him. Kosingas joined one to another many long 
wooden ladders, reared them up, and made as if he would climb up into the sky 
and denounce the Thracian mutiny to Hera. Thereupon the Thracians, stupid 
unreasoning folk, fearing that their leader would climb up into the sky, besought 
him and swore that they would hearken to all his commands.’ 


If such was the attitude of the average untutored Thracian, we 
begin to see why Pittakos had votive ladders dedicated in the 
sanctuaries of Mytilene’. His father was a Thracian* and _ pre- 


1 Od. 11. 316 wy’ ovpaveds duBaros etn. 

2 J. Toepffer in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Luc. i. 1591 f. 

3K. O. Miiller Ovchomenos und die Minyer? Breslau 1844 p. 380. 

4 Pind. frag. 162 Schréder af. Cramer anecd. Oxon. i. 201, 15 ff. Ulvdapos émi rod 
"Qrov Kal’ EquddXrou, ‘ritvovres (J. G. J. Hermann cj. rirvaytes) Body | kNiuaxa ovpavdr és 
aimty (F. W. Schneidewin cj. xAiuak’ és aimiy otpavdr)’* rv pey adv Ondovéort. Her- 
mann’s mirvaytes is certainly right, cp. Eustath. zz //. p. 561, lo=et. mag. p. 403, 32 f. 
*"EgudArys...mapa TO ladd\w, TO exrelyw, K.T.N. 

In the Underworld Otos and Ephialtes were bound by snakes to a column, facing 
different ways, and tormented by a horned owl (ros) (Hyg. fad. 28, cp. Verg. cul. 234 ff.). 
The column may be that on which the earth rests. 

® Apollod. 1. 7. 4 €uvavro dé Equddrns ev” Hpay, Qros dé” Apreuw, cp. schol. B.D.T. 
Bhat Biel 6 Polyain. 7. 22. 

7 Ail. var. hist. 2. 29 Ilirraxos év Muriijvyn xareckevace év Tots lepots KNiuakas és 
ovdeumiay wer xphow émirndelous, avTo bé ToUTO dvaOnuaTra elvar, aiviTTopmevos THY EK THS 
TUxns dvw Kal KdTwW MeTATTwWOW, TpdToY TWA TOV meV EvTVXOVYTWY avLdYTwY, KaTLOVTOW dE 
Tav ductvxotvTwy. I doubt whether Aelian fathomed Pittakos’ meaning: the ascent and 
descent in question were, if I mistake not, the ascent of the soul to heaven and its descent 
to earth wa the cosmic stair. 

We may perhaps detect a refinement upon the same belief in Herakleitos’ saying 660s 
dvw Katw uia Kat wurn (Herakl. frag. 69 Bywater, 60 Diels), if not also in Diotima’s 
mystic ascent towards ideal beauty (Plat. symp. 211C dpxduevoy dmd T&vde THY Kady 
éxeivou évexa Tod Kadod del émavidvar, Worep ETavaBabmots xpwmevov, K.T.D.). 

8 Douris frag. 53 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 482 Miiller) ag. Diog. Laert. 1. 74, cp. Souid. 
s.U. ILirrakés. 


and the Soul-Ladder ea 


sumably versed in Orphic lore. Again, we can give a shrewd guess 
as to the reason why the ladder figures among other amulets on the 
terra-cotta cake-moulds of Tarentum'. That city was a stronghold 
of the Pythagoreans, who were deeply imbued with Orphism, and 
it had moreover its own pillar-cult of Zeus Katazbdtes*. Finally, we 
obtain the answer to an old conundrum, In 1843 J. Millingen pub- 
lished a terra cotta from Italy representing a naked female figure, 
who sits on the back of a pig with her legs spread apart and a 
small ladder held upright in her hand (fig. 79)*. Millingen rightly 
identified this personage as Baubo, but failed to detect the true 
significance of the ladder. Baubo was a goddess worshipped in 
Paros along with Hera, Demeter Thesmophédros, Kore, and Zeus 
Eubouletis: since her name in the Parian inscription* follows im- 
mediately those of the Ionian triad, she too was in all probability a 
goddess of chthonian import®. According to Asklepiades of Tragilos 
(s. iv. B.C.), she was the wife of the autochthonous Dysaules (whom 
we may venture to regard as an appellative of Hades*) and by him 
the mother of Protogone and Misa’. And Orphic tradition made 


1 (1) Formerly in the possession of Sir W. Temple at Naples (O. Jahn in. the Ber. 
sachs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1854 pp. 52f, 95 pl. 5, 3, E. Labatut in 
Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 256 fig. 306, S. Seligmann Der bdse Blick und Ver- 
wandtes Berlin 1910 ii. 166 f., 169 fig. 150). (2) At Naples (G. Minervini ‘Poche osser- 
vazioni sopra un disco di terracotta, nel Real Museo Borbonico’ in the Bul. Arch. Nap. 
1857 v. 169—172 pl. 6, 2, S. Seligmann of. c?t. ii. 166f., 171 fig. 151). (3) and (4) At 
Oxford (Sir A. J. Evans ‘ Recent discoveries of Tarentine terra-cottas’ in the Journ. Hell. 
Stud. 1886 vii. 44—50 no. 2=p. 44 ff. fig. 6 and no. 3=p. 46). Sir A. J. Evans Joc. cit. 
was the first to recognize in these circular plates ‘ Moulds for Sacred Cakes’: he thinks 
it probable that the specimens published by Jahn and Minervini, like those now at 
Oxford, come from Tarentum. In the Comptes rendus de 1’ Acad. des inscr. et belles- 
lettres 1916 p. 344 F. Cumont adds two other examples—(5) a disk communicated by him 
to the Academy, and (6) a disk in the Louvre. According to him, they date from s. ii or 
1 B.C. and were probably bogus mirrors used for catoptromancy. 

2 Supra pp. 29 ff., 45. 

3 J. Millingen ‘Baubo’ in the Amz. d. /nst. 1843 xv. 72—97 pl. E= my fig. 79. The 
terra cotta in question is now in the Antiquarium at Berlin. 

4 Supra i. 669 n. 2. 

* On Baubo see F. Lenormant in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 683, A. Schultz in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 752f., A. Dieterich in Philologus 1893 lii. 1 ff. = Kleine Schriften 
Leipzig and Berlin rgrr p. 125 ff., zd. Mekyia Leipzig 1893 p. 87 n. 3, O. Kern in Pauly— 
Wissowa Xeal-Enc. iii. 150 f., Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 50n. 2, 57 n. 3f., 233, 771 
N. 3, 1437 N. 2, 1542 n. 1, za. Myth. Lit. 1908 p. 431f., and H. Diels ‘Arcana Cerealia’ 
(estratto dalla Miscellanea di Archeologia di Storia e di Filologia dedicata al Prof. 
A. Salinas nel XL anniversario del suo tnsegnamento—to which Miss Harrison kindly 
drew my attention) Palermo 1907 pp. 3—14. 

§ Hades is AveatAns, ‘He of the sorry Resting Place’ (dvcavNa), as lord of the oikla... 
ouepdar€ evpwevta, Tate oTvyéovor Heol ep (//. 20. 64 f.). 

? Harpokr. s.v. AvoavAns* ...’Aokdymiddns 8° &v rerdprw Tpaywdouuevwy (Asklepiades 
of Tragilos frag. 6 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 302 Miiller)) tov Avoatdny adrdxOova cival pyar, 
suvaknoayrTa d€ BavBot cxetv ratdas Ipwrovdny (IIpwroyéyny corr. A. Dieterich in Phzlo- 


o—=2 


132 The Pillar of Light 


Dysaules the father of Eubouleus and Triptolemos’. It is, I think, 
fairly safe to conclude that Baubo was an Orphic goddess of the 





PedrettU 5% 

Fig. 79. 
Underworld. I suggest that she was the ‘Mistress’ mentioned in 
the Orphist’s solemn formula: 


I have passed beneath the bosom of the Mistress, the Queen of the Under- 
world?. 


logus 1893 lii. 2 n. 6= Kleine Schriften Leipzig and Berlin 1911 p. 126n. 3 and L. Bloch 
in Philologus 1893 lili. 577) Te kai Niocay (Micay corr. C. Miiller Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 339, 
lll. 302). 

1 Pauss Ue 4-9, Cp. Supra 1. 20 

2 Supra i. 650 n. 0, il. 119 n. 2. Observe that the line Aeoroitvas & tro xé\rov 
éduv, XAovias BaowNelas is at least partially paralleled by the phrase BavGods b76 Ké6\rros in 
the passage (Clem. Al. prot. 2. 21. 1 p. 16, 13-ff.=Orph. frag. 215 Abel) so convincingly 
expounded by H. Diels oc. ct. 

The Orphic formula ultimately influenced the ritual of Eleusis, where Persephone, 
not Baubo, was chthonian Queen: see Psellos riva zrepi dayudvav doédgovow “EXXnves ; 
(printed in Psell. de operatione daemonum ed. J. F. Boissonade Norimbergae 1838 
p- 36 ff.) p. 39f. ra 5é ye uvorhpia ToT wr, ola abtixa Ta’ ENevoivia, Tov wuOixdv broKpiverat 
Ala puyvipevov 77H Anot, n-youv 7h Anunrpt, kat rn Ovyarpe Tavrns Mepoepdrrn, TH kal Képy. 
érevdy 5é EuwedNov Kal appodiown éml rH mujoer ylvecOar cuumroxal, dvadveTal Tws 7 
"Agpoditn arb Twwv meTrAaATLEVWY undéwy meAdryLos. Eira Oé yamajALos NéyeTac Erl TH Képy 
iuevasos, Kal éradovow ot TeAovmevor* * Ex TUMMdvoU Epayor, Ex KUUBawY Erov, Exipvopopyoa, 


and the Soul-Ladder 133 


Now that formula stood next to the profession: 
I have entered with quick feet upon the lovely Crown. 


It would seem, then, that the initiate posed as the very consort 
of the chthonian Queen'. As such he had every right to mount 
her ladder, the ladder that led to Elysium. The ‘child of Earth 
and starry Sky?’ must needs be free of either world. 

The soul-ladder appears again in that most pathetic and im- 
pressive document The Passzon of Saint Perpetua* (March 7), who 
was done to death in the arena at Carthage c. 203 A.D. When in 
prison, she prayed, at her brother’s request, that the future might 
be revealed to her, and had by way of answer the following vision : 


‘I beheld a bronze? ladder of wondrous size, reaching even to the sky, and so 
narrow that only one could mount it at a time. And in the sides of the ladder 
were fixed all manner of iron implements—-swords, lances, hooks, knives—so 
that any who mounted carelessly or without looking upwards was torn and his 
flesh caught by the iron implements. And under the very ladder lay a snake of 
wondrous size, plotting against them that ascended and frightening them from 
the ascent. Now the first to go up was Saturus, who at the time of our arrest was 
not there, but later had given himself up on account of us. And he came to the 
top of the ladder and turned and said to me: “ Perpetua, I await thee. But see 
that yonder snake bite thee not.” And I made answer: “ He will not hurt me in 
the name of Jesus Christ.” And under the very ladder he put forth his head 
slowly, as though he feared me, and I, as if I were treading the first step, trod 
upon his head. And I went up and beheld an immense garden, and in the 
midst of the garden a white-haired man sitting, clothed like a shepherd, tall, 
milking his sheep. And standing round about him were many thousands clad 
in white raiment. And he raised his head and looked upon me and said to me: 


imd Tov mactov elcéduv.’ broxpiverac 6€ kal tas THs Anods Wdivas. ixernplar yodv avrixa 
Anois kal xoXs moots Kal kapdiadylar. ed’ ols kal Te Tpayookenes wlunua madavduevov rept 
rots ddvmos, Stirep 6 Leds, dixas drorwvds tis Blas Ty Anjunrpl, Tpayou Opxets drroTemur, 
7@ KON TaUTHS KaTEDETO Worep OH Kal EavTOd. éml maow ai Tod Acovicou Tiymal Kal 7 KioTes 
(xiorts codd. A.B.) cal ra rodvdudaa momava, kal of TH LDaBafiw redovmevor, Kal oi 
pnrpiagovres (eTplfovres cod. A. G. Gaulminus tentaverat pyrpifovres), Kdédwves (so 
G. Gaulminus for kAndéves codd. A.B.) re kal Miwaddéves, kal Tis 7X@V AEBNs Oeompwrecos, 
kal Awdwvaiov xadkelov* kal KoptBas d\Xos, kal Kovpns érepos, daiudvwv wiunuata. ed ois 
7 BavBw rods unpods dvacupauévn, Kal 6 yuvatketos Kreis’ oUTW yap dvoudfover Thy aldo 
aicxuvéuevor. Kal ovTws év aicxp@ Thy TedeTHY KaTadvovow. Cp. throughout szpra i. 
302 ff. 

1 Supra i. 649 n. 7. * G. Murray in Harrison Proleg. Gk. Rel.” p. 659 ff. 

3 J. Rendel Harris—S. K. Gifford Zhe Acts of the Martyrdom of Perpetua and 
Felicitas London 18go (Latin and Greek texts), J. Armitage Robinson Zhe Passion of 
S. Perpetua Cambridge 1891 (Latin and Greek texts), A. Pillet AWistotre de Sainte 
Perpétue et de ses compagnons Lille—Paris 1885 (Latin texts), cap. 4. I have translated the 
longer Latin text, which is admittedly the oldest source. J. Armitage Robinson of. civ. 
p- tgf. prints in Ta columns the Long Latin, the Short Latin, and the Greek 
Version. 

4+ The variants are: scalam cod. A. scalam auream cod. B. scalam aeream cod. C. 
kKNiwaka xadkqv cod. Harris., cp. cxddav xadkqv menol. Basil. (J. Armitage Robinson of, 
cit. p. 21f.). A friend of Armitage Robinson cj. scalam aeriam. 


134 The Pillar of Light 


“T am glad thou hast come, child.” And he called me and gave me a mouthful 
of the curds from his milking. And I received it with joined hands and ate ; and 
all that stood round about said ‘‘Amen.” And at the sound of their voice I awoke, 
still eating something sweet. And straightway I told it to my brother, and we 
understood that it meant suffering and thenceforward began to lose all hope in 
this life.’ 


Since the remaining visions of Perpetua seem to contain certain 
elements of mystical or mythical import?, it is at least possible that 
here too we should recognise sundry pre-Christian traits. Orphism 
is suggested both by the celestial ladder and by the milky diet of 
the newborn soul’, if not also by the very name of Satyros. 
Perpetua is by no means the only saint associated with a ladder. 
Saint Sadoth (Feb. 29), who was martyred at Seleukeia on the 
Tigris in 344 A.b., dreamed that his predecessor Simeon Bar-Saboé 
stood at the top of a ladder, beckoning him from earth to heaven’. 
Saint Alexis of Rome (? Constantinople) or Edessa, who lived at 
the end of the fifth century and is commemorated on July 17 (by 
the Greeks on March 17), is represented with a ladder in his arms’. 
Saint Leonard (Nov. 6), who died as abbot of Limoges in 559 A.D. 
but is nowadays reckoned the principal saint of Bavaria’, as patron 
of prisoners holds by a chain a youth mounting a ladder® Saint 
John Klimax (March 30), who died in 606 A.D., was abbot of Mount 
Sinai and reverenced as a second Moses’: he got his title from the 


1 £.9. in cap. 7 the boy Deinokrates retains his gangrenous wound even after death 
(cp. the sons of Herakles on the Orphic ‘ Underworld’ vase at Munich: Furtwangler— 
Reichhold Gr. Vasenmalere?i. 50 pl. 10, supra i. 222 n. 5) and cannot reach the water 
that he fain would drink (cp. Tantalos, supra i. 205 fig. 148); in cap. to Perpetua, 
stripped for the conflict, becomes a man, is pitted against an Egyptian wrestler and feels 
as though she were uplifted from the ground, but with joined hands pulls him down and 
wins the bout (cp. Herakles v. Antaios), receiving as her prize a green bough with 
golden apples on it (cp. Herakles and the apples of the Hesperides). 

2 Supra i. 676 f. 

8 Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Antverpize 1658 Februarius iii. 176 B (Acta 2) Vidi 
in somnis hac nocte scalam cum magna gloria, cuius initium erat in ccelo. Ei autem super- 
stabat sanctus Episcopus Simeon cum infinita gloria: ego vero infra in terra consistebam. 
Atque ille magna me cum hilaritate compellans, Ascende, inquit, ad me Sadoth, ascende : 
ne timeas, ego enim heri ascendi, tu vero hodie ascendes. Etc., M.. and W. Drake 
Saints and their Emblems London 1916 pp. 114, 188. 

4 C. Cahier Caractéristiques des Saints dans Vart populaire Paris 1867 i. 328, 387 f., 
D. H. Kerler Die Patronate der Heiligen Ulm 1905 p. 36 (‘Treppe’), M. and W. Drake 
op. cit. pp. 6, 188. 

®° R. Andree Votive und Weihegaben des katholischen Volks in Siiddeutschland Braun- 
schweig 1904 p. 39 ff. 

6 M. and W. Drake of. cit. pp. 74, 188. 

7 Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Antverpiz 1668 Martius iii. 837A (V2ta | Auctore 
Daniele monacho cozuo 2. 9) Nam & montem Dei ipse accessit, inaccessamque nebulam 
ingressus, scaleéq; coelestis gradibus admotus, scriptam Dei digito legem accepit, etc., 
S. Baring-Gould Zhe Lives of the Saints Edinburgh 1914 iii. 506 ff. 


and the Soul-Ladder Es 


Ladder of Paradise,a book of thirty chapters in which he described 
out of his own experience the thirty steps leading upward to per- 
. fection’; hence he is figured with a ladder®. So too is Saint Em- 
meram of Ratisbon (Sept. 22)’, but for a very different cause: in 
652 A.D. he was bound to a ladder, mutilated, and murdered on a 
false charge’. Saint Bathild the Saxon (Jan. 26 or 27 or 30), who 
was married to Clovis ii in 649 A.D., shortly before she died had a 
vision of a ladder set up in front of an altar and of herself, escorted 
by angels, going up it into heaven’: she is represented accordingly *. 
Saint Romuald of Italy (Feb. 7), who lived ¢. 907—1027 A.D., once 
saw a ladder rising to the sky and his monks ascending it in white 
habits: he founded a fine church on the spot’. Saint Olaf king of 
Norway (July 29), who fell at Stikklestad in 1030.A.D., is portrayed 
with a ladder seen by him in a similar dream*. Saint Bernard 
Ptolemy (Aug. 21, 1348 A.D.), founder of the Olivetines at Siena, 
had—like Saint Romuald—a vision of angels leading white-robed 
monks up a ladder®. And Saint Angela of Merici (May 31, 1540 


1 KnXtuat rod rapadelcov, Scala Paradisi (Ixxxviiil. 631—1164 Migne). On it see 
K. Krumbacher Geschichte der byzantinischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1897 p. 143 f. and 
a beautifully illustrated chapter by W. Dennison and C. R. Morey Studies in Last 
Christian and Roman Art (University of Michigan Studies: Humanistic Series xii) 
New York 1918 pp. 1—30 (‘Two Miniatures from a Manuscript of St. John Climacus, 
and their Relation to Klimax Iconography’) with col. pls 1, 2 and figs. I—14. 

* M. and W. Drake of. cit. pp. 67, 188. 

3 C. Cahier of. cit. i. 327 f., M. and W. Drake of. cit. pp. 40, 188. 

+ B. Sepp in the Avalecta Bollandiana Paris—Bruxelles 1889 viil. 233 f. (Arbeonis 
episcopi Frisingensis Vita S. Emmerammi authentica 16 ff.) scale superpositum funibus 
alligauerunt etc., S. Baring-Gould of. czt. x. 338 f. 

® Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Antverpie 1643 Januarius ii. 741 (Veta 13) At vero 
iam propinquante glorioso eius obitu, visio preeclara ei fuit ostensa. Scala enim erecta & 
stans ante altarium S: Mariz, cuius culmen ccelum contingeret, & quasi Angelos Dei 
comitantes, vt ipsa Domna Baltildis ascenderet per eam: etc., cp. 2b. 745 (Alia Vita 16) 
in the better Latin of an interpolator. 

6 C. Cahier of. cé¢. i. 328, M. and W. Drake of. cit. pp. 17, 188. 

7 Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Antverpiz 1658 Februarius ii. 136 B (Alia Vita | sive 
Sermo de Vita S. Romualdi, auctore Hieronymo Eremita Camald. 61) Vbi dum lassus 
quiesceret, vidit instar Iacob scalam excelsam, ccelum quasi suo vertice tangentem, per 
quam albescentium monachorum videbatur ascendere multitudo in ccelum, S. Baring- 
Gould of. cit. ii. 209, M. and W. Drake of. cit. pp. 112; 188. 

8 Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Antverpiz 1731 Julius vii. 106 F (De S. Olavo, Rege 
et Martyre, Nidrosie in Norvegia...g7) Scalam, inquit Rex, vidi a terra in ccelum usque 
pertingentem, meque per gradus ascendentem, supremamque tenuisse, 20. 115C f. (Acta 
érevia to) passioni se lzetus obtulit, jam divinitus sperans scalam, quam in somnis nuper 
ad ccelos erectam viderat, per quam ad dulcedinem, quam gustaverat, feliciter erat 
ascensurus. Cp. F. Metcalfe Passio et Miracula Beati Olavi Oxford 1881 p. 126 citing 
Snorri Saga Olafs konungs ens helga edd. P. A. Munch—C. R. Unger Christiania 1853 
cap. 226; C. Cahier of. cé¢. i. 328, M. and W. Drake of. cet. pp. 95, 188. 

9 C. Cahier of. cét. i. 328. 


136 The Pillar of Light 


A.D.), foundress of the Ursulines at Brescia, is likewise represented 
ascending a ladder with her virgins. 

Even ordinary mortals might aspire to climb the steps that led 
heavenwards. A Christian sarcophagus at Burgos in Spain has Jacob’s 
ladder for its central subject (fig. 80). Herrade of Landsberg, abbess 


a ae 
SS 
eepeeteaiaceieann 


i att iat lh pA et Ri AEN ARB SA SES a A me 





Fig. 80. 


of Hohenburg on Mount Saint-Odile from 1167 to 1195 A.D., included 
in her Hortus Deliciarum a symbolic design representing ‘The 
Ladder of Virtues’ (fig. 81)’. Akin to this is the magnificent painting 
in tempera (¢, 1200 A.D.), which was discoyered in 1870 on the 
western wall of the nave in Chaldon Church, Surrey (pl. viii). ‘The 


1 C. Cahier of. cét. i. 328, M. and W. Drake of. czt. pp. 10, 188. 

* Monumentos arquitectonicos de Espaga pl. without number (see S. Reinach in the 
Rev. Arch. 1911 ii. 467), Index by D. Eduardo de la Rada y Mendez Madrid 1895, 
Reinach Rép. Reliefs ii. 190 nos. 1—4. 

® Herrade de Landsberg Hortus Deliciarum edd. A. Straub—G. Keller Strasbourg 
1879—1899 p. 43 pl. 56 (=my fig. 81) ‘ L’échelle des vertus’ after C. M. Engelhardt Herrad 
von Landsperg, Aebtissin zu Hohenburg, oder St Odilien, im Elsass, im zwolften Jahr- 
hundert, und thr Werk: Hortus deliciarum Stuttgart—Tiibingen 1818 p- t15f. pl.g. The 
whole design is inscribed: Hec scala significat ascensum virtutum et religiosum sancti- 
tatis exercitium, quo vite corona adipiscitur. Huic scale primum plurimti tnnitentes postea 
drabolicis sagittis vulnerati retrahuntur, et terrenis impedimentis ac concupiscentiis suis 
ellecti et abstracti nequiter incurvantur. The ladder rises obliquely from earth to heaven. 
Beneath its lowest step crouches the devil in the form of a dragon. Above its highest step 
the hand of the Lord holds ott the crown of life. Two demons shoot arrows at the 
climbers and successfully overthrow a knight (zzz/es) and his wife (/azca), a nun (sancti- 
monvalis), a clerk (clericus), a monk (monachus), a recluse (zcluses), and a hermit 
(hevemita), who all fall downwards towards the objects of their desire. Two angels with 
sword and shield protect the uppermost figure, that of Virtue ( Virtas, id est caritas), who 
advances to take the crown. On one side of the ladder we read : Draco iste insidiatur 
scandentibus and Hos omnes periculose ab alto cadentes potest Dominus medicina penitentie 
iterum ad virtutum culmen restituere. The happier alternative is indicated by the inscrip- 
tions : Septem sunt scale quibus ascenditur ad regnum celorum: prima castitas, secunda mundi 
contemptzo, tertia humilitas, guarta obedientia, quinta patientia, sexta fides, seplima caritas 
de puro corde and Hec persona virtutis significat omnes sanctos et electos, qui angelica custo- 
dia perducuntur ad celestia premia. Virtus autem hec est caritas. Sola enim virtus caritatis, 
que ceteras virtules continet, ad accipiendam celestis premu coronam perventet. 

+ J. G. Waller ‘On a Painting recently discovered in Chaldon Church, Surrey’ in 


- 


and the Soul-Ladder le 


Ladder of the Soul’s Salvation and of the Road to Heaven’ is like- 







ae 
ON 
* 


LE arma TPA er so 
f cud Le t Liang a at ab thy 
tinh ry { pao? 4 Big) 18 steeiae 
Fy MC asont tag) |B Ree eS oe RELAY 3 
‘ F Si Pini a cy ee 
rpae oe op — Ad 1 Fi a 
Ps ifich ee BSS, an Bi } 












Fig. 81. 


wise a traditional theme among the ecclesiastical painters of the 


Surrey Archaeological Collections 1871 v. 275—306 with col. pl., Eliza B. Miller in Zhe 
Victoria History of the County of Surrey London 1912 iv. 192f. with col. frontisp. by 
P. M. Johnston. Good photographs are obtainable in the form of picture-postcards 
(=my pl. viii). The colours used in the original are ‘red and yellow ochre, a little native 
cinnabar and white’ (Waller). The painting is divided into two registers by a horizontal 
band or nebuly. The lower register represents the torments of the lost ; the upper, the 


138 The Pillar of Light 


Greek Church'. Dante, when he ascends with Beatrice to the 


bliss of the saved. The two are connected by a vertical ladder rising towards a half-length 
figure of Christ in the act of benediction, with the sun on his right, the moon on his left. 
Below, to the right, is the tree of life with the serpent in it; and on the north wall 
adjoining it were remains of a large demon, now destroyed. Between the tree and the 
ladder is a usurer seated in flames and tormented by two demons : he is slung with money- 
bags, vomits coins, and holds up a piece of gold. The usurer is flanked by two amatory 
couples, perhaps clerk and concubine, priest and nun, each couple with an attendant 
spirit prompting to sin. To either side of them two large demons support a bridge of 
spikes, on which are seen several culprits marked by the emblems of their trades—a black- 
smith condemned to forge a horseshoe without anvil, a mason with his pick, a woman with a 
ball of yarn, another woman with some attribute defaced, and a man with a bowl, probably 
one who had stolen a tithe of milk and must now carry it over the bridge without 
spilling. To the left of the ladder is a caldron full of flames, set over a fire and tended by 
two large demons, who are filling it with parricides and fratricides. On the extreme left 
the painting is damaged and obscure; but we can make out several souls of dancers, 
whose feet are gnawed by a recumbent wolf. On the opposite side of the caldron is a 
figure with pilgrim’s staff and purse, but a wine-bottle in his hand: he had sold all to buy 
strong drink. The figure having her arm bitten by a dog is a warning to ladies against 
feeding their pets too well. Another large demon, with the cloven hoofs, tail, and ears of 
a Satyr, shoulders a two-pronged fork and is bent on picking off souls from the ladder. 
Behind him a woman and a man tumble downwards together: she holds out a gold coin 
and clasps a large gold-banded horn carried by him—a symbol of lewdness rather than of 
drunkenness. Above, to the right, is ‘the Harrowing of Hell.’ Christ advances upon the 
prostrate form of Satan, whom with cross and banner he thrusts down into the open jaws 
of Hell, here conceived as a gaping monster. The victor extends his hand to Adam, and 
liberates a troop of souls from the flames of Purgatory, while an angel, issuing from 
Heaven with a scroll, announces the fulfilment of prophecy. Two other angels stand on 
either side of the ladder as guards and guides of the blessed, who ascend towards Christ 
above them. A couple of souls—Enoch and Elijah—clamber up outside the ladder in an 
unusual way. Another exceptional case is that of the soul—presumably the penitent 
thief—carried direct to Paradise by a flying angel. To the left is St Michael weighing 
souls. Three’ females—probably the three Marys—pass towards the ladder. A fourth 
soul supplicates the archangel. Two others, weighed and found wanting, are flung into 
the gulf below. Lastly, to the left of the upper register, a demon, dragging many souls 
bound with a rope, tries to depress one scale and so send up the beam. The dedication- 
cross is on the lower edge of the painting, which measures 17 ft. 2ins. in length by 
rr ft. 2ins. in height. 

1 The painter’s manual by Dionysios Hieromonachos is an important source first 
published in a French translation by P. Durand Manuel Wiconographie chrétienne 
grecque et latine Paris 1845. The Greek text was first printed by A. Konstantinides, 
ed. 1 Athens 1853, ed. 2 Athens 1885, and is entitled ‘Epunvela | rv | fwypddwy | ws 
mpos THY | ’ExkAnovacrixhy Cwypadpiay | vd | Acovuciov Tod “Lepomovdxov | kal fwypdadov | 
Tod €x Poupya tay ’Aypadwr | (cuyypadeioa év “APwve TH 1458). Further bibliography in 
K. Krumbacher Geschichte der byzantinischen Litteratur? Minchen 1897 p. 1117. It is 
now held that Dionysios lived early in the eighteenth century, but drew largely upon an 
anonymous painter’s book of 1566 A.D.: see A. Papadopoulos Kerameus Denys de 
Fourna, Manuel a’iconographie chrétienne, etc. St Petersburg 1900, za. Avovuciov Tod éx 
Poupra “Epunvela ris Corypadujjs, etc. St Petersburg rgog, O. M. Dalton Byzantine Art 
and Archaeology Oxford 1911 p. 649. I append the text of the “Epunvela § 523 p. 242f. 
Konstantinides?: “H uxoowrypios Kal odpavddpopos kAipag. Movacripiov Kal ééwOev 
THS TUANS avToU TAHGos wovaxav mdons HAtkias* wap’ av’ryn dé KAluak POdvovca pméxpus 
ovpavod* Kal wovaxol dvepxduevor dia T&v Babuldwy atrAs* of wey mpos Tas apxas Tis 
kNiwakos byTes, of dé mpos Ta méoa, ol S€ mpds Td Tépua axEddv* Kal ayyeNor Tapa Tots 


*F +20 QE1 advg 225 


‘UOIBATVS JO Joppey ayy : Aoqing ‘younyD uopreyD ur sujured ein 


as —EE——— : _ 






IIA 24eId 








and the Soul-Ladder 139 


seventh heaven of the planet Saturn, beholds a ladder leading to 
yet higher heights: 


Within the crystal, which records the name 
(As its remoter circle girds the world) 

Of that loved monarch!, in whose happy reign 
No ill had power to harm, I saw rear’d up, 

In colour like to sun-illumined gold, 

A ladder, which my ken pursued in vain, 

So lofty was the summit; down whose steps 

I saw the splendours in such multitude 
Descending, every light in heaven, methought, 
Was shed thence?. 


The conception has left faint but unmistakable traces of itself in « 
the trade-marks of early Italian paper-makers (fig. 82)%. And its 


dvaBaivouc. BonBodvres rots povaxots’ 6 Sé Kipios ris xNiwaxos dvw meTratd ayyeuv 
tmo\vaplOuwy Kal vepeh@v NauBdver Tov dvaBalvovTa povaxov. Ex THY xELpOY Hid Tis las, 
ynpatov ovra wavy Ti HALKlay Kal iepompem7, Sud de THs aANns EmiPerer Eri THs Kopupys TOU 
povaxod arépavoy avbopdpov Kal éiOors memouki\uévov: éx bé Tod orduaros Tod Kupiov 
e&épxovra radra* ‘* Aedre mpds we mdvtes of Komi@yTes Kal mepopricuévol, KAyw avamavow 
“buds.” pds ra dpurtepa dé THs KAlwaxos wépn Saluoves dvaBalvovres kal KaTaBaivorTes 
atpovTes mpos EavTods Tovs povaxovs dia THS Blas ex T&v évdumdTav’ Twas, meV TOUTWY 
poBifovow paxpdbev* Twas dé plrrovoew KaTakepadfs Ex THS dvwrdryns Babuldos* Twas dé €x 
Tou péoou, Tas dé EVOds ev TH dvaBdoe, Tivds 5é SoKiudfovow wa plywor KaTw, d\AG UT 
duvdpevor Katazecylfovow éavrovs* Twes dé Kat Tor Kara Kepadys dvTEs Tupdmevoe Tpos TH 
KaTw Tapa Toy daudvey davtéxovcw duws KpaTodyTes THY KNiuaka Odats Svydweot dia TO 
xetpOy* éyyls O€ THs KALuakos 6 Tauddyos adns ws Opdxwy péyas Kal PoBepds Exwy EvTOs TOU 
oréparos wovaxdv karaBalvovra mpos Ta KdTw. “Kmlypappa. ‘‘Bdérov kAluaxa mpos mddov 
éotpauuevny | OpOas vdemor dperav dvaBadcess | ‘Pevorod Blou otv éxpuywy door Taxos | "1A 
mpos adrny Kal dveNOe Eurdvers |" Exwv dé ppovpods Tods xopods THY dyyéAwy | Adxous déNOecs 
Tay Tovnpav dayudvev. |“Orws dve\Owy els mUdas otpavious |“HEes orépavoy yxeupi Tov 
Kuplov.” 

1 Saturn. 

2 Dante Div. Comm. Parad. 21. 22 ff. trans. H. F. Cary. 

3H. Bayley Zhe Lost Language of Symbolism London 1912 i. 32f. figs. 52—55 after 
C. M. Briquet Les F2ligranes Dictionnaire historique des Marques du Papier des leur 
apparition vers 1282 jusqu’en 1600 Paris etc. 1907 ii. 344 with figs. 5898—5934 (my 
fig. 82 is from nos. 5900, 5903, 5934, 5921, 5925, 5929, 5933), who says: ‘Il n’est pas 
impossible qu’il y ait un rapport entre le filigr. de l’échelle et les armoiries de la famille 
della Scala, mais rien ne l’établit jusqu’ici.’ 

The combination of ladder with cross is noteworthy. Writers of mediaeval seguentiae 
often describe the cross as a ladder (e.g. J. Kehrein Lateinische Sequenzen des Mittelalters 
Mainz 1873 p. 67 no. 60, 5 haec est scala peccatorum, p. 73 no. 68, 3 tu nos hinc per 
modum scalae | ducas ad coelestia, p. 75 no. 73, 2 haec est scala novae legis, p. 76 
no. 75, 9 tu scala, p. 331 no. 473 (Notker Balbulus), 1 ff. scalam ad coelos subrectam 
tormentis cinctam, | cuius ima draco servare cautus invigilat iugiter, | ne quis eius vel 
primum gradum possit insaucius scandere. | cuius ascensus extracto Aethiops gladio 
vetat exitium minitans. | cuius supremis innixus iuvenis splendidus ramum aureolum 
retinet. | etc.)—a description readily applicable to the cross with three transverse bars 
(R. St. J. Tyrwhitt in Smith—Cheetham Dect. Chr. Ant. ii. 497). Again, the ladder that 
appears among other emblems of the Passion (Mrs H. Jenner Chrestian Symbolism 
London rgro p. 58) is presumably symbolic as well as realistic. 


140 The Sky-Pillar in Sardinia 


abiding helpfulness is attested by the popularity of Longfellow’s 
poem The Ladder of Saint Augustine’. J. M. Neale had the experi- 


4 
A 


Fig. 82. 


ence of centuries at his back, when with regard to life’s trials, 
sorrows, and temptations he put the wistful question: 


What are they but the ladder 
Set up to heaven on earth? 


(x) The Sky-Pillar in Sardinia. 


The invocation prefixed to the Orphic Hymns is addressed to a 
great variety of gods and goddesses including— 


1H. W. Longfellow (‘Cambridge Edition’) London 1895 p. 186f. with note on 
p. 668: ‘The words of St. Augustine are, ‘‘De vitiis nostris scalam nobis facimus, si 
vitia ipsa calcamus.”—Sermon 111. De Ascenstone.’ 


The Sky-Pillar in Sardinia I41 


all Winds, 

Thunders, and parts of the four-pillared World! 
But this conception of the sky as resting on four pillars is not in- 
compatible with belief in the soul-ladder: both notions were com- 
bined in Egypt?. Neither is the four-pillared sky necessarily 





























inconsistent with one central prop, the wxzzversalis columna*®. In the 
Museum at Cagliari is a bronze from Mandas representing the 
whole apparatus of an early Sardinian cult (fig. 83)4. From a sub- 


1 Orph. edx7 rpds Movoatoy 38f. ’Avéwous te mpdmavras | kat Bpovtas Kéopou re pépn 
TeTpaklovos avd (so Portus for avAGr). 

2 Supra p. 125 f. The 7ef-pillar, with regard to which conjecture has been rife (Sir 
G. Maspero The Dawn of Civilization? London rgor p. 130 n. 6, E. A. Wallis Budge 
Egyptian Magic London 1899 p. 44 ff. ‘The Amulet of the Tet’), would—I think—be 
best explained as an abbreviated group of four columns representing the four supports of 
the sky (cp. C. J. C. Reuvens Lettres a M. Letronne Leide 1830 i. 69 together with W. M. 
Flinders Petrie J/Zedum London 1892 p. 31). 

8 Cp. the modern Greek belief in the earth as supported by one column with four other 
pillars (spra p. 56 n. 2 no. 621). 

4 L. A. Milani ‘Sardorum sacra et sacrorum signa’ etc. in the Wilprecht Anniversary 
Volume Leipzig—London—Paris—Chicago 1909 p. 312f. fig. 1, A. Taramelli ‘Il tempio 


142 The Sky-Pillar in Sardinia 


stantial square base, with a column at each angle, rises a central 
shaft, broken at the summit, which—as A. Taramelli infers from a 
votive bronze boat found in the same place (fig. 84)'—was originally 


Fig. 84. 


topped by bull’s horns supporting a dove. Adjoining this structure 
is a small edifice with a gabled roof, on the ridge of which are the 
remains of three doves. It seems probable that the quincunx of 
pillars rising from a solid base was in effect a model of the sky 
uplifted above the earth’, that the bird resting on the central shaft 


nuragico ed i monumenti primitivi di S. Vittoria di Serri (Cagliari)’ in the Joz. d@. Linc. 
Igt5 xxii. 390 ff. fig. 93 (=my fig. 83: restorations after Milani /oc. czt.). As to the 
date of the zraghi civilisation, ‘ All we can say is that, although it may have reached 
its highest development in the bronze age, it certainly flourished in the eneolithic 
period’ (T. E. Peet Zhe Stone and Bronze Ages in Italy and Sicily Oxford 1909, p. 236). 

1 A. Taramelli oc. zt. p. 390. The boat in question is published by L. A. Milani in 
the Ailprecht Anniversary Volume p. 333 n. 2 fig. 34 (=my fig. 84). It is a two-wicked 
lamp in the form of a bull-headed boat with a ¢émenos on board: an enclosure with four 
pillars surrounds a taller column, on the capital of which is a pair of horns supporting a 
bird. Milani and Taramelli both compare the prow of a stag-headed bronze boat from 
Vetulonia, on which four clustered pillars are surmounted bya single shaft with horns and 
bird (L. A. Milani Studi e materiali di archeologia e numismatica Firenze 1902 ii. 87 
fig. 274). Similar too is a seal-impression found by A. J. B. Wace in a well at 
Mykenai, which represents a pillar topped by ritual horns with a dove between them 
and flanked by two other doves. 

* L. A. Milani ‘Il tempio nuragico e la civilta asiatica in Sardegna’ in the Rendiconti 
d. Lincet 1909 xvill. 579—592 (cp. zd. in the Ailprecht Anniversary Volume p. 312, 
A. Taramelli doc. cz¢. p. 389 ff.) compares the pillared base of the Sardinians with the 
ztkkurat of the Babylonians. The analogy is remote; but it is certainly thinkable that the 
solid plinth, like the zi#kurat (supra i. 603), was a conventionalised form of mountain, or 
at least stood for terra firma. 

C. Brandenburg ‘ Reisenotizen aus Sardinien’ in the Zettschrift fiir Ethnologie 1914 
xlvi. 643 says: ‘Das Objekt ist als ‘‘ Tempelmodell”’ bezeichnet ; es kénnte aber 
moglicherweise auch ein ex voto sein, etwa das Haus eines Hauptlings mit hélzernem 
Wachtturm daneben, das zum Dank fiir die Errettung aus irgendeiner Katastrophe den 
Gottern geweiht wurde.’ My experienced friend-Mr T. Ashby agrees with me in thinking 
this solution of the problem unlikely (July 11, 1920). 


Diana-Pillars | 343 


was the sky-god in feathered form, and that the birds perched on 
the neighbouring roof betokened his presence in 
the sacred building near at hand. Perhaps we 
may venture a step further and identify this 
feathered sky-god with Sardopator’ or Sardus 
Pater, who appears in a feathered head-dress on 
the copper coins of the island (fig. 85)*. Was it 
he that sent the winter rains so vital to the life 
of the Sardinian peasant®? 





(\) Diana-Pillars. 


Similar constructions appear in the landscape-frescoes of Italy 
and are susceptible of the same interpretation. A» remarkable 
painting in greenish monochrome from Herculaneum, now in the 
Naples collection (fig. 86)4, shows a pillar-shrine set by the edge of 
a lake or river. A short flight of steps leads up to a square plinth, 
on which stands a pillar with moulded ‘base, club-shaped shaft, and 
shallow disk-like capital. The shaft is surrounded by several bands 
and is marked here and there with patches’? probably denoting 
votive objects affixed to it®. Above the capital the shaft is continued 
in the form of a tapering finial, round the lower part of which are 
seen three ornaments (heads of deer ?)’. The pillar is half-encircled 
by a wall carrying an Ionic colonnade, which is finished off with a 
low cornice and a row of vases. Two side-walls, each supporting a 


. 


1 Ptol. 3. 3. 2 Lapdomdropos iepdy with C. Miiller ad Joc. 

2 Babelon Monn. rép. rom. i. 223 f. fig., M. Bahrfeldt Machtrage und Berechtigungen 
zur Miinzkunde der rimischen Republik Wien 1897 p. 45 f. fig., Hunter Cat. Corns 
i. 262, Head “Hist. num.* p. 191, A. Boutkowski Dictéonnaire numismatique Leipzig 
1884 ii. 831 nos. 1601, 1602, E. Klebs in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 2253 f., O. Hofer 
in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 384 ff., R. Pettazzoni La religione primitiva in Sardegna 
Piacenza 1912 p. 62 ff. fig. 17. I figure a specimen in the Fitzwilliam Museum. For the 
feathered coiffure see further Sir A. J. Evans Scripta Minoa Oxford 1909 i. 24f. figs. 
114 (c), 11¢, 275 f. fig. 126 (no. 2), H. R. Hall in the Anz. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901-1902 
vill. 185 fig. 9, zd. in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1911 xxxi. 119—123 figs. 3—7. 

3 Solin. 4. 5 hibernae pluviae in aestivam penuriam reservantur, nam homo Sardus 
opem plurimam de imbrido caelo habet. Cp. R. Pettazzoni of. cit. p. 105 ff. 

4 Le pitture antiche d Ercolano Napoli 1762 iii. 273 ff. pl. 52, H. Roux—M. L. Barré 
Herculanum et Pompé Paris 1870 iii. 2. 16ff. pl. 7, Helbig Wandgem. Camp. p. 7 
no. 252», M. Rostowzew ‘ Die hellenistisch-romische Architekturlandschaft’ in the Adm. 
Mitth. 1911 xxvi. 42 fig. 21 (here used to correct the earliest publication). Inventory 
no. 9413. Height 0°65™. Breadth o°45™. The painting is assigned to the third or ‘ornate’ 
style of mural decoration (c. 25 B.C.—5o A.D.). 

® Le pitture antiche &@ Ercolano Napoli 1762 iii. 274f. ‘alquante fasce, 0 giri, e 
macchie di varie figure, che il color della pittura, ch’ € tutta a chiaroscuro, sbiadato 
ancora pel tempo, non lascia ben distinguere, nella superficie del corpo covico.’ 

8 Cp. infra p. 146. 7 Cp. tnfra p. 146 f. 


144 | Diana-Pillars 


vase, complete the architecture of the shrine. Branches and ribands 
are twined about it; a jointed reed rests against the pillar; a 
filleted staff or sceptre lies before it. In the foreground a doe 


pees 





Hip) 


Ps 


=| 

















B : = in aan LG 
SSS SSE 18 PTOI F ti Hy 
=e = 42 I = \ il Htayyy3> ‘. 
= = ey ‘ PTUTIYTIIT TINY A al p Z, ° 
=> —¥i- La = ee Yi, we 


L. Y AMIN hear — << — 


Zo 























Th 









































Fig. 86. 


drinks, watched by a Nymph. To the left appears Diana with her 
hounds; to the right Actaeon, the horns sprouting from his head’. 
The choice of this myth may be taken to imply that the pillar was 
more or less closely associated with Diana. 


1 W. Helbig in the Bull. d. Inst. 1864 p. 37. 


Diana-Pillars 145 


A fresco still in the ¢rzclinzwm of the ‘House of Livia’ on the 
Palatine (fig. 87)! represents a shrine essentially similar in character 










ae2 





OSs 


Soo SS 








1 T. Schreiber ‘ Due pitture del Palatino’ in the Azz. d. Just. 1875 xlvil. 210—221 

pl. K-L, 2, A. Mau Geschichte der decorativen Wandmaleret in Pompejt Berlin 1882 

pp. 167 ff., 196 ff. pl. 9, zd. ‘ Wandschirm und Bildtraeger in der Wandmalerei’ in the Adm. 

Mitth. 1902 xvii. 213 fig. 11, G. Rodenwaldt Die Komposition der pompejanischen Wand- 
C. II. 10 


146 Diana-Pillars 


Steps give access to a bridge across a stream, along which three 
ducks are swimming. Above the bridge is a broad but low marble 
plinth. Over this trails a fillet. On it are a ducranium, a sacrificial 
bowl from which incense-smoke (?) curls upward, and a goat whose 
hind legs appear on a detached piece of plaster. From the plinth 
rises the club-like pillar with its disk. The shaft, yellowish brown 
in colour, seems to be of timber’: to it are attached the heads of 
several woodland animals—stag, boar, and goat. Below the discoid 
capital hang pendants (tassels ?); and above it project other small 
accessories (a row of deer-heads?)?. The finial, which doubtless 
topped all, is not preserved. Partially encircling the pillar is a 
curved wall, over which woollen fillets are slung. The wall is pierced 
with a series of narrow openings and surmounted by three archaistic 
statues of females’, each with a metal spike on her head and a pair 
of torches in her hands. To the right are several indistinct archi- 
tectural features, apparently two large smooth pillars on a base. 
Upon one of these pillars a parrot is perched. And upon the base 
lies a great golden crown, set with red and green jewels and 
adorned with a row of deer-heads (?)* precisely resembling those of 
the disk. In the foreground a rude stone altar® is burning (?). In 
the background a huge tree, perhaps meant for a pine, spreads abroad 
its branches surrounded by the foliage of a dim-lit forest. The 
whole scene almost certainly depicts a shrine of Diana Vemorensts 
decked with spoils of the chase. It is on record that this goddess 
was worshipped in the form of ‘a log’ (4éguum)*. And the ring of 
deer-heads (?) on the upper part of the pillar recalls the ‘crown 
decorated with stags’ worn by Nemesis, the Greek counterpart of 
Diana Nemorensis’. Finally, in the great golden crown tricked out 


gemalde Berlin 1909 p. 38, M. Rostowzew ‘ Die hellenistisch-rémische Architekturland- 
schaft’ in the Rom. Atth. 1911 xxvi. 6f. fig. 2 (which I have used to correct Mau’s 
colour-plate). Height 2°53". Breadth 1°44™. The painting is of the second or ‘archi- 
tectural’ style (c. 80-10 B.C.). 

* M. Rostowzew Joc. ci¢. regards the pillar as made of bronze: but how then were the 
heads of the slain beasts fastened to it ? 

» For M. Rostowzew these are ‘ Greifenkopfe.’ They are not particularly like deer, or 
griffins either. Cp. the ornaments of the crown surmounting a sacred pillar, flanked by 
Aphrodite and Hermes, in a wall-painting from Pompeii (B. Quaranta in the Real AZuseo 
Borbonico Napoli 1824 i. t—g pl. 32, Helbig Wandgem. Camp. p. 8 no. 20, R. Engel- 
mann Lelder-Adlas zum Homer Leipzig 1889 Odyssee p. 4 no. 24 pl. 4). 

® * Bronzebilder der Hekate’ (Rostowzew loc. cit.). 

+ M. Rostowzew again says ‘ mit...Greifenkipfen.’ 

> Cp. Gratt. cyneg. 483 ff. (cited sepra i. 274). 

° Commod. zxstructiones 1. 19. 2 (cited supra i. 281 n. 5). 

’ Supra i. 275. If Rostowzew’s interpretation of the upstanding ornaments as griffin- 
heads is correct, we must comfort ourselves with the reflection that the griffin was a more 
frequent attribute of Nemesis than the stag (sera i. 270, 276, 281). 


Diana-Pillars 147 


with the same deer-heads (?) we may recognise the trappings of 
Diana’s human consort, the ver Memorensis himself!. There is 
indeed a certain fitness in the fact that a fresco illustrating the 
Arician cult was chosen for the walls of this ¢rzclintum. The 
‘House of Livia’ was in all probability? acquired from the Hortensii 
by Augustus, who occupied it for more than forty years*. He 
seems to have reconstructed its back court, and—we are told—after 
the work was done made the whole house public property, con- 
tinuing to hold it as pontifexr maximus’. Later, if R. Lanciani® is 
right, it became the house of Germanicus father of Caligula, who— 
jealous of the long reign of the ver Nemorensis—actually hired a 
cut-throat to dispose of him®. Was it our fresco that suggested the 
freak ? 

Another fresco (fig. 88)’, discovered at Pompeii, during the 
excavations of 1888—18g0, on the end wall of a ¢vzclinzum in the 
fifth region’, adds further points of interest. In the centre of a 
rocky, mountainous scene, close to a stream or lake, grows a leafy 
pine-tree. Beside it is set a club-like pillar tapering downwards and 
surmounted by a capital of some sort with ornaments (deer-heads ?) 
as before: the pillar is painted in light violet and is twined with 


' Traces of a similar crown can perhaps be made out to the left of the sceptre in the 
monochrome painting from Herculaneum (supra p. 144 fig. 86). De Visser De Gr. adizs 
non ref. spec. hun. p. 56 n. 4 observes that many Roman frescoes attribute a ‘corona 
dentata’ to Artemis (e.g. Helbig Wandgem. Camp. p. 67 nos. 234, 236, 237, p. 68 nos. 
240, 247, 248, p. 71 f. no. 253, p. 72f. no. 256, Sogliano P2tt. mur. Camp. p. 28 no. £12, 
p- 30f. no. r19, p. 141 f. no. 687, cp. zd. 2b. p. 29 nos. 114 f., A. Mau in the Rom. 
Mitth. 1890 v. 264 f. See further L. Stephani Mimzbus und Strahlenkranz St Petersburg 
1859 p. 123 (extr. from the Mémoires de 1 Académie des Sciences de St.-Pétersbourg. vi 
Série. Sciences politiques, histoire, philologie. ix. 483), so that the crown in our fresco 
might be that of the goddess, not that of her priest. But, if the goddess is represented by 
the /zgnem, her crown is presumably the disk set upon it. 

> See G. Pinza in the Bull. Comm. Arch. Comun. di Roma tg10 xxxviii. 1 ff. and O. L. 
Richmond ‘The Augustan Palatium’ in the Journ. Rom. Stud. 1914 iv. 193 ff. Others 
(e.g. O. Richter Zopographie der Stadt Rom Miinchen rgor pp. 143 f., 160, H. Jordan— 
C. Huelsen Zopographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1907 i. 3. 61) have 
regarded it as the house of Ti. Claudius Nero, first husband of Livia and father of the 
emperor Tiberius, who was born on the Palatine (Suet. 770. 5). 

3 Suet. Aug. 72. 

4 Dion! Gass. 55. 12: 

5 C. L. Visconti—R. Lanciani Gzda del Palatino Torino 1873 p. 114. But see 
H. Jordan—C. Huelsen of. cit. i. 3. 85 n. 109. 

6 Suet. Calig. 35 Nemorensi regi, quod multos iam annos poteretur sacerdotio, 
validiorem adversarium subornavit. 

7 A. Mau in the Rim. Mitth. 1890 v. 264—266 with fig. (=my fig. 88), G. Roden- 
waldt Die Komfposition der pompejanischen Wandgemilde Berlin 1909 p. 49. The 
painting, which measures o°99™ in height by 0°57™ in breadth, is of the third or ‘ornate’ 
style (¢. 25 B.C.-50 A.D.). 

BOR AG: Ve 200: 


IN Cje— 4 


148 Diana-Pillars 

broad ribands. Raised on a square plinth at the foot of tree and 
pillar is the statue, perhaps a herm, of Diana with a modus on her 
head. Her left hand is uplifted and rests on a sceptre; her right is 


— ph iit 
cl WLM GE 





a Marian’ XAG. 


Rome 


Fig. 88. 


outstretched as if it held a patera. Before her, clad in chlamydes of 
various hues, stand three men. One holds out towards her a wreath 
of leaves; his two companions turn their heads away. The hunting 


Diana-Pillars | 149 


spears that they carry, the pair of hounds attending them, and the 
stag bounding through a rocky archway in the background, all 
show that this is the cult of Diana Nemorenszs. Grattius expressly 
mentions puppies and wreaths and weapons in his description of 
her woodland rite. Who the long-robed figure in the lower left- 
hand corner may be, we cannot say. But it is noteworthy that the 
pillar-shrine of the goddess is duplicated and even triplicated in 
the same view. To the right of the pine and rather more in the 
background rises a second club, narrowing upwards and topped by 
a disk which apparently carries a tray or /éknon. To the club are 
bound a short thick stick (?) and other votive offerings. By it stands 
the second effigy of Diana, this time an unmistakable herm. She 
bears again a modus on her head, holds on her shoulder a short 
sceptre (?), and extends her right hand. Club and herm alike are 
painted in dull violet to express distance. Away to the right a low, 
broad tripod, white and yellow, is placed on a round, whitish base. 
Adjoining this are bushes of bay (?); in the background, rocks and 
trees. On. the left, above the arched rock, is seen yet a third club- 
pillar set on a square step beside an ancient, 
leafless tree. The painting as a whole may 
indeed be taken to illustrate no fewer than 
six stages in the evolution of religious art—the 
living tree, the dead tree, the club, the pillar, 
the herm, and the statue on its plinth. More- 
over, it should be observed that here, as in the 
contemporary fresco from Herculaneum?, the 
artist is fitting figures originally drawn from 
the gallery of Greek myth into a frankly Italian 
framework. Hippolytos, immortalised by Eu- 
ripides* as presenting a garland to his patron 
goddess Artemis, is thus transformed into the 
hunter offering his wreath to Diana Vemorensis 
—a subtly appropriate transformation, when 
we call to mind the belief that Hippolytos 
came to life again in Diana’s grove at Nemi‘. 

In passing I may note a parallelism of form, 
and perhaps of function, which would repay 
further study. The pillar of Diana as repre- 
sented on the frescoes was a stout post, rising 
from a stepped base, wound about with a fillet and crowned by a 





Fig. 89. 


1 Gratt. cyneg. 483 ff. (supra i. 274). 
* Supra p. 143 f. > Eur. Wipf. 70 ff. 
+ Supra i. 225 n. 4, 282 n. 1, enfra § 3 (a) v (v). 


150 Diana-Pillars 


disk, from which pendants were dangling. In short, it was an 
erection uncommonly like our own May-pole, which I illustrate 


from a manuscript dated c. 1499 A.D. (fig. 89)!. The comparison 
donne a penser”. 


The landscape-paintings—not to dwell on the very similar land- 
scape-reliefs (figs. 91, 92)°—, when viewed in connexion with the 


1 R. Chambers 7he Book of Days London—Edinburgh 1864 i. 575 : ‘In the illumina- 
tions which decorate the manuscript ‘‘ Hours ”’ once used by Anne of Brittany and now 
preserved in the Bibliotheque Royale at Paris, and which are believed to have been 
painted about 1499, the month of May is illustrated by figures bearing flower-garlands, 
and behind them the curious May-pole here copied, which is also decorated by colours on 
the shaft, and ornamented by garlands arranged on hoops, from which hang small gilded 
pendents. The pole is planted on a triple grass-covered mound, embanked and strengthened 
by timber-work.’ /d. 2b. p. 577 notes that in the neighbourhood of Salzburg it is the 
custom to trick out the May-pole with birds, stags, etc. (‘In one instance a stag-hunt is so 
represented ’): the resemblance to the Roman pillar of 
Diana emorensis is curiously close. 

* Supra i. 291, 339 I suggested that the May-pole 
was topped by an effigy of the sun (globe, wheel, hoop). 
But these horizontal garlands point rather to an effigy of 
the sky (¢zfra p. 157 f.). 

Analogous forms might be traced yet further afield. 
A sacred column (stambha, /ét) of granite (height 524 ft) 
facing a Jain temple at Mudubidery or Morbidry near 
Mangalore (E. Moor The Hindu Pantheon London 1861 
pl. 77 (=my fig. 90), zd. The Hindu Pantheon? Madras 
1864 p. 368 pl. 44) bears indeed a curious resemblance 
to the Diana-pillars of ancient Italy. This may, of 
course, be wholly fortuitous. But it is thinkable that 
there was some remote connexion between them. For 
the Jains were apparently known to the later Greeks 
(Hesych. Tevvot: of Tupvocogioral); and the stambha 
or /ét in its earliest form has gzasz-classical traits (see 
J. Fergusson History cf Indian and Eastern Architecture 
rev. by J. Burgess and R. Phené Spiers London 1910 
i. 54, 506 ff. fig. 5 ff., 346 ff. fig. 202f., ii. a1 fig. 275, 81 ff. 
fig. 308). Moreover, the Jains sometimes compared the 
world with a spindle resting on a half spindle (H. T. 
Colebrooke Afiscellaneous Essays* London 1873 ii. 198 f., 
C. Lassen Lndische Alterthumskunde Leipzig 1861 iv. 
771). Hence it is tempting to conjecture that the stambha 
was, at least originally, a world-pillar. 

3 A few examples will suffice: Fig. gr, a marble relief 
(height c. 1'20™, breadth 0°75™) in the Palazzo Colonna 
at Rome (Matz—Duhn Ant. Bildw. in Rom iii 66f. 
no. 3576, Montfaucon <Antiguity Explained trans. 
D. Humphreys London t725 Suppl. i. 132 pl. 31 no. 8 
with sides reversed, Gerhard Ant. Bildw. p. 287 f. pl. 42, 
1, id. Uber den Gott Eros Berlin 1850 eee eS (Dis vy aly 
Boetticher Bauwmkultus pp. 158f., 539 fig. 26, T. Schreiber 
Die hellenistischen Reliefbilder Leipzig 1889 pl. 15 =my 
fig. g1, zd. ‘ Die hellenistischen Reliefbilder und die augusteische Kunst’ in the /ah7é. d. 





Fig. go. 

















HY) 
. , 
Se - Ze 4 Y’ As 
\ x) pee 
’ SO) 
he Vy « SS >, Png 
* 
m\ SS : 
~ Mm 


=O 


Se Si SS ane ee 


Nits, 


aii 


ean Sil rey 


Ss — Spee 3 
eS SSSSSNe Se 


SPs ins 








Fig. gt. 


152 Diana- Pillars 

























Hutt 


=555. | 
MND TM ? 











les 
‘ae 





SS x, 
or —— 











| 
| 
wuld 








“ 
st. \S\ \\ (PB pS 4) for 


Zu 
yo 
al 
fs 


re 
il 





i= 


I 





Nt 





gress 
Lh 





Fig. 92. 


kais, deutsch. arch. Inst. 1896 xi. 99 n. 56, 100 n. 58, Reinach Rép. Relzefs ili. 220 no. 2, 
M. Rostowzew ‘Die hellenistisch-romische Architekturlandschaft ’ in the Rom. A/z7/th. 1911 
xxvi. 105 f.), shows Hermaphroditos nursing the infant Eros, who arranges a wreath on a 
herm to the right. To the left an archaistic Artemis, wearing a skin and holding a fawn 
on her shoulder, is mounted on a pilaster. (Restored : Hermaphroditos’ nose, right hand, 
phallés ; Eros’ right fore-arm; the herm’s beard and ghal/és ; Artemis’ head; the fawn’s 
head.) The background represents a precinct-wall, above which we see in the centre an 
ancient oak with a band twined about its trunk, to the right an Ionic column with a 
burning torch tied to its shaft and a vase set on its capital, to the left a circular pillar- 
shrine with Ionic columns, windows, entablature, second row of windows, and battle- 
ments, the shrine enclosing a Diana-pillar with two torches bound to it. 

Fig. 92, a marble relief (height 0°30™, breadth 0°34™) found at Rome in 1820 and now 
at Munich (Furtwangler Glyptothek 20 Miinchen p. 370f. no 455, id. 2.2 p. 397 no. 455, 
id. Ein hundert Tafeln nach den Bildwerken der kel. Glyptothek zu Miinchen Miinchen 
1903 pl. 93, 2, J. M. Wagner in the Anz. ad. Just. 1836 viii. 47—52, Mon. d. Inst. ii 
pl. 27, Boetticher Laumkultus pp. 156 ff., 543 fig. 56, T. Schreiber Die hellenistischen 
hKeliefoilder Leipzig 1890 pl. 80, zd. ‘Die hellenistischen Reliefbilder und die augusteische 
Kunst’ in the Jahrb. d. hats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1896 xi. 99 n. 56, 100 n. 58, J. .E. 
Harrison ‘ Mystica vannus Iacchi’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1903 xxiii. 297 f. fig. 6, ead. 
‘Note on the mystica vannus Jacchi’ in the 42, Brit. Sch. Ath. 1903—1904 x. 147, 
Reinach Aép. Reliefs il. 82 no. 1, M. Rostowzew ‘ Die hellenistisch-romische Architek- 
turlandschaft’ in the Rom, A@tth. 1911 xxvi. 102 f.), portrays a countryman driving a 
cow to market. He carries a basket and a pole with a dead hare hanging from it ; his 
cow has a couple of sheep slung pannier-wise over its back. (Restored : the countryman’s 
head and right fore-arm, basket, pole with part of hare; the cow’s head.) Behind this 


Diana-Pillars ! r53 















































J 





Fig. 93. 


group appears a circular pillar-shrine with windows in its wall, which is partially broken 
down. Through the gap we see a decorative Diana-pillar with disk-like capital, from 
which two tassels are hanging. A pair of timbrels is set up on the wall, a flaming torch 


154 Diana-Pillars 


bronze shrines from Mandas}?, enable us to reach certain tentative 
conclusions. In the first place, it would seem that the cosmological 
belief expressed in the cult-monuments of Sardinia was common to 
Italy also”. Italian rustics at the close of the republic were still 


bound to the pillar, and a /éénon full of fruits including a phalloid gherkin or small 
cucumber placed upon the disk. Adjoining the pillar-shrine on the right is a gateway, 
with pine-cone as finial, built over an old oak-tree, the trunk of which disappears behind 
a wall to the right ; on the left, a low wall with narrow openings left in it, a vase set upon 
it, and a ¢Ayrsos and two torches leaning against it. The background to the left shows an 
aedicula of Priapos with an arched entry and a windowed side. 

Fig. 93, the three-sided base of a candelabrum in the Vatican (Gerhard Ant. Bildw. 
p- 322 pl. 83, Boetticher Bawmkultus p. 77 f. figs. 9f., E. Saglio in Daremberg—Saglio 
Dict. Ant. i. 413 fig. 499, Helbig Guide Class. Ant. Rome i. 259f. no. 369, 20.3 1. 229 
no. 356, Baumeister Denk. i. 297 fig. 313), represents (a) a quiver, bow, and hunting- 
spear hung from the branch of a bay-tree, (4) a Diana-pillar with a stag’s antlers and a 
garland bound to it and a votive tablet leaning against it, (c) a rustic altar decked with a 
garland : on the altar are offerings—a pine-cone etc. ; against it leans a blazing torch, 
while a deer bites playfully at the riband hanging from the torch. 

Fig. 94, a silver box-lid obtained from the Roman dealer Capranesi by E. Gerhard 
and now at Berlin (O. Jahn in the Avch. Zeit. 1858 xvi. 229 ff. pl. 118, 1=my fig.), 
renders in high relief an altar-top with a group of votive or sacred objects lying upon it. 










gogougdn 


PIITONIIIOVIIIINITS 


Doyooonanaanoae 


tilt 









Trittitiii) 


onde 











aor and 


These include a filleted ox-head, a sheep’s head, a goat’s head, a kid with folded legs, a 
bird with bound wings, a bunch of grapes, an ear of maize, a fig, an almond, etc. Among 
them is a club-shaped Diana-pillar (Jahn describes it with hesitation as ‘eine Spindel ’) 
of the sort already familiar to us. 

1 Supra p. 141 f. 


* This may be disputed. Some archaeologists have looked to Egypt, others to Asia 
Minor or Syria, as the source from which the pillar-worship of Graeco-Roman art was 





Fig. 94. 


Diana-Pillars ee 








BEPENIKHCBASAN CCHS 
ATAOK CT YXH C 





OF NN 
Ey Epre en 


EYER tyth 


 BEpEMIKHERACHeeH 
ArAGHOTYXHC 


Fig. 95. 








156 


Nii fp 


+ 


Diana-Pillars 



































SS 


MAMAN 
SY 












SRR | _= 


Tig. 96. 











Diana-Pillars 157 


making the sky-column on its plinth within a ring of pillars or 
pilasters pretty much as the Sardinians had done at the beginning 
of the bronze age, though quite possibly the meaning of the custom 
had long been forgotten. Secondly, we note that the central shaft 
or sky-prop was of wood, a sacred log, in short an Italian /rmznsi/, 
modified by art into a tapering column of peculiar form}. Further, 
we may suspect (though we can hardly prove the point) that its 
most peculiar feature, the flat disk serving as capital, had come to 
be taken for a representation of the round sky resting on the sky- 


derived. And arguments more or less specious are not wanting. On the one hand, a very 
similar pillar, with cylindrical base, discoid capital, and tapering shaft, occurs as part of 
the relief-decoration on blue*porcelain jugs inscribed with the names of Ptolemaic kings 
and queens (E. Beule ‘Le Vase de la Reine Bérénice’ in the /owrnal des savants 1862 
pp. 163—172 with pl. =my fig. 95, F. Lenormant ‘ Le vase de la reine Cléopatre’ in the 
Rev. Arch. 1863 i. 259—266 pl. 7=my fig. 96, T. Schreiber Dze alexandrinische Toreutik 
Leipzig 1894 p. 433 n. 47, zd. ‘Die hellenistischen Reliefbilder und die augusteische 
Kunst’ in the Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1896 xi. 100 n. 1, H. B. Walters 
Fristory of Ancient Pottery London 1905 i. 129, and especially E. Breccia in the Bulletin 
de la Société Archéologique d’ Alexandrie 1910 xii. 93—98). On the other hand, a sherd 
of Pergamene relief-ware (not later than 
s. iii B.c.), found at Pergamon and now 
in the Antiquarium at Berlin, repre- 
sents a sacred pillar, which resembles 
that of the Romans even more closely 
(M. Rostowzew ‘Die hellenistisch- 
rémische Architekturlandschaft ’ in the 
Rim. Mitth. 1911 xxvi. 114—116, 130 
pl. 11, 3=my fig. 97): ona garlanded 
cylindrical base stands a club-like pillar 
with disk and finial; propped against the 
base are a double flute (?), a ducranzum, 
and a /agobélon, the other end of which 
seems to rest on a tree-stem; a syri72x is 
fastened to the pillar by a riband; and 
Pan leans against it playing on the lyre. 
But there is much more to be said for 
the view that in the pillar-worship of 
Italian art we should recognise a local 
survival of a cult once common to the 
whole Mediterranean area (Sir A. J. Fig. 97. 
Evans ‘Mycenaean Tree and Pillar 
Cult and its Mediterranean Relations’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 128). 

1 Fora sacred tree conventionalised into a pillar of this shape see an interesting series 
of Cypriote terra-cotta agd/mata published by Ohnefalsch-Richter Ayfros pp. 127 ff., 413 
pl. 76, 8, 1, 6, 1o=my fig. 98. Of these Ohnefalsch-Richter pl. 76, 1 came from the 
sanctuary of Artemis at Achna, half-way between Kition and Salamis, the rest from that 
of Astarte at Chytroi. They warrant the inference that a tree might degenerate into a 
tapering baluster, its branches being reduced to a mere crown or ring. If that is so, we 
may fairly explain the disk-like capital of the Diana-pillar as a vestige of the original 
branches or foliage. The pendants hanging from the disk would, on this showing, be 
a reminiscence of offerings etc. suspended from the boughs. 










‘SN > . 








Gi, ha 





158 Diana-Pillars 


pillar : the pendants that dangle from it are not without analogy in 
the cosmic notions of other races’. Finally, we observe that side by 
side with these pillar-shrines there persisted the more primitive 
tree-cult, in which the living tree was enclosed by a gateway con- 
sisting of side-posts and lintel (fig. 99)? or by some later elabora- 


- of 
< mae 


ee HU MMC Nig 





* See e.g. Sir G. Maspero Zhe Dawn of Civil/zation* London 1gor p. 16 n. 7: ‘ The 
variants of the sign for night— em. yA —are most significant. The end of the rope 


to which the star is attached passes over the sky, =>), and falls free, as though arranged 
for drawing a lamp up and down when lighting or extinguishing it. And furthermore, the 
name of the stars—£abis#i——is the same word as that used to designate an ordinary lamp.’ 
Cp. the sun suspended by cords on a Babylonian tablet (supra i. 262 ff.). J. Grimm 
Teutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1883 ii. 722: ‘The Lithuanians 
beautifully weave shooting stars into the fate-mythus: the verfeya (spinneress) begins to 
spin the thread of the new-born on the sky, and each thread ends in a star ; when a man 
is dying, his thread snaps, and the star turns pale and drops (Narbutt, 1, 71).’ 

Traces of such beliefs can be found here and there among the Greeks. Thus at the 
Boeotian Daphnephoria the £ofé was a staff of olive-wood with a bronze ball at the top 
to denote the sun, a smaller ball below to denote the moon, a number of little balls 
hanging from the topmost ball to denote the stars and planets (Nilsson Gr. Fes¢e p. 164 f.: 
I have discussed the rite in Fo/k-Lore 1904 xv. 4009 ff., supra i. 291 n. 5). 

* Fig. 99 is a stucco-relief from one of the vaulted rooms of a Roman town-house dis- 
covered in 1878 in the garden of the Villa Farnesina (Mon. d. Znst. Suppl. pl. 35, 
J. Lessing—A. Mau Wand- und Deckenschmuck eines roemischen Hauses aus der Zeit des 
Augustus Berlin 1891 p. 14 pl. 15, M. Collignon ‘Le styl décoratif 4 Rome’ in the Revue 
de Tart ancien et moderne 1897 i. p. 104 with pl., M. Rostowzew ‘ Die hellenistisch- 
romische Architekturlandschaft’ in the Rom. Mitth. Igir xxvi. 34 ff. fig. 13 f. (after 
Anderson’s photograph no. 2506=my fig. 99), H. Bulle Der schine Mensch im Altertum? 
Miinchen und Leipzig 1912 p. 601 f. pl. 298, Helbig Guide Class. Ant. Rome ii. 220 fi., 
233 no. 1059, 2d. ii. 117 ff. no. 1330). This relief, which is now in the Museo delle 
Terme, represents a rocky landscape with a stream spanned by a bridge. On the bridge 
are two women carrying pitchers, of whom the first gives drink to a kneeling beggar (cp. 
Iuv. 4. 116 ff. with J. E. B. Mayor ad Joc.). To the left of the bridge a large date- 
palm (?) stands in a precinct between a couple of two-storied buildings. Over it is a gate- 
way consisting of a pillar and a pilaster with an architrave, on which is set a fluted jar. 
Adjoining this complex we see a circular walled structure with narrow openings, which is 





Diana-Pillars 159 


Fig. 99. 







{Zz 
CO. Sau 


G \ Us RUM ACTON ARAN 
we 


i a : sit | 
Ok \ = =e ACTA in Nal ; 


MMS 
a ee 











decked with garlands and contains a palm-tree and a pillar. To the right of the bridge 
yet another sacred tree with its pillar and jar rises from an enclosure of peculiar shape 
(three columns and a back-wall support an architrave, of which two sides are concave, the 
third convex). 

Another good example of the gateway erected over a sacred tree is Le pztlure antiche 
@ Ercolano Napoli*1762 iii. 281 ff. pl. 53, H. Roux—M. L. Barré Herculanum et Pompéi 


160 Ag -yteus-Pillars 


tion of the same’. From our present position it seems legitimate to 
conjecture that this gateway or arch at first denoted the sky itself 
resting on the side-supports. Such a supposition at least helps 
us to understand the otherwise puzzling representations of the 
Dioskouroi in Etruscan art. Their dékana are seen to be simply 
the ‘beams’ of the world—its pillars and ceiling. And they them- 
selves, as figured on Etruscan mirrors, are the humanised side-posts, 
which naturally enough have between them a tree or a column 
and above them a starry pediment?. 


(u) Agyieus- Pillars. 

And here, at the risk of faring worse, we must go further. For 
it is impossible to separate the Diana-pillars of Italy from the 
Agyteius-pillars of Greece*, which in form and fashion are their 
exact counterpart. Grammarians and lexicographers define the 
term Agyzeiis sometimes as a pointed? or conical pillar®, sometimes 


Paris 1870 ili. 2. 13 ff. pl. 5, Boetticher Bawumkultus pp. 156, 541 fig. 36, W. Helbig in 
the Arch. Zezt. 1866 xxiv. 182 f., 7d. Wandgem. Camp. p. 274 no. 1279. See further 
M. Rostowzew ‘Die hellenistisch-romische Architekturlandschaft’ in the Rém. Aitth. 
I9ir xxvi. 41 fig. 18=Sogliano Pitt. mur. Camp. p. 141 no. 686, cp. zd. 1b. p. 52 
no. 245. 

A base or altar in the Villa Albani (G. Zoega Li bassirilievt antichi di Roma Roma 
1808 il. 235—238 pl. 98, Reinach #ép. Reliefs iii. 132 no. 1, W. Helbig Piihrer durch 
die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer tn Rom*® Leipzig 1913 ii. 409 
no. 1847) shows (a) Apollon, with lyre and p/ék¢ron, bow-case and quiver, standing beside 
his bay-tree, which grows through a Corinthian gateway ; (0) a richly decorated tripod, on 
the plinth of which is perched a raven; (c) a sacrificial ewer and bowl; (d@) a griffin 
looking backwards. The scheme of the rustic tree-shrine is applied to the cult of the 
civilised Apollon in virtue of his sacred bay. 

1 Supra p. 152 fig. g2. 2 Supra i. 766 ff. 

3 The main facts and fancies relating to these 4gyiezs-monuments are collected by 
Welcker Gr. Gotter/. i. 495 ff., E. Saglio in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 168 f., Over- 
beck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 3 ff. Miinztaf. 1, 1—8, G. Wentzel in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. i. gogf., E. Reisch 2. i. gio ff., K..Wernicke 24. ii. 41f., De Visser De Gr. 
diis non ref. spec. hum. p. 46 ff. § 22 ff., Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 
xxl. 173, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 774n. 4, 776 n. 1 f., 1232, Farnell Cuts of Gr. 
States iv. 148 ff., 307f., 371 f. coin-pl. a, 15, J. E. Harrison Themis Cambridge 1912 
p. 406 ff., M. H. Swindler Cretan Elements in the Cults and Ritual of Apollo (Bryn Mawr 
College Monographs: Monograph Series xiii) Bryn Mawr 1913 pp. 41 f., 74. ~ 

4 Harpokr. s.v. ’Ayuds= Bekker anecd. i. 331, 32 f.=Souid. s.v. dyuat=schol. Ald. 
Aristoph. vesp. 875=Zonar. /ex. s.v. "Ayueds=Favorin. lex. p. 28, 27f. Herodian. 
ii. 889, 27 ff. =Steph. Byz. s.v. dyuid = Bekker anecd. i. 327,17 f. Schol. Eur. Phoen. 631. 
Eustath. 27 //. p. 166, 22=Favorin. ex. p. 798, 5 f. 

® Souid. s.v. dyuval = Zonar. lex. s.v. Ayuids=Favorin. lex. p- 28, 31f. Herodian. 1. 
240, 21 ff.=Steph. Byz. s.v. aywd, and schol. Aristoph. vesp. 875 use the word dBeXoxor, 
which might pass muster as a rough and ready equivalent. Schol. Rav. Aristoph. ¢hesm. 
489 “Ayuda: <d> otirw Kadovuevos’ Amd\\wy TeTpd-ywvos was perhaps confusing the Agyzezs 
with a herm, cp. Ulpian zz Dem. zz Afid. 51 of dé dyuids (leg. ’Ayulds) pact Tovs ‘Epuds 
though Paus. 8. 32. 4 (z/fra p. 164 n. 7) describes an Apollon Agyzezs at Megalopolis as 
having oxjma Terpd-ywvor (for which shape in Arkadia see supra i. 520 n. 2). 


Ag yiews-Pillars 161 


as an altar’, set up before a doorway. Attempts have been made 
to distinguish the pillar from the altar?; but these are now gene- 
rally discredited* in view of Hesychios’ gloss—' A gyzezs, the pillar- 
shaped altar that stands before the doors*’ The association of 
pillar with doorway recalls the dékana of the Dioskouroi as figured 
on the Etruscan mirrors®. And the use of a pillar before the doors 
for an actual altar can be paralleled from the cult of Zeus Katazbates 
at Tarentum®. Nor are we dependent for our notion of an Agyzezs 
merely upon the verbal descriptions of ancient scholars. Those 
descriptions are precise enough to warrant us in giving the name 
to the monument represented on coins of northern Greece struck at 
Apollonia (figs. 100, 101)’, Orikos (fig. 102)*, and Olympe (fig. 103)° 


! Harpokr. s.v. "Ayudis= Bekker anecd. i. 332, 3 ff.=Souid. s.v. dyveai=schol. Ald. 
Aristoph. vesp. 875 =Zonar. lex. s.v.’Ayuds = Favorin. dex. p. 28, 29 ff. Nigidius (frag. 42 
Funaioli) af. Macrob. Sat. 1. 9. 6. Varr. af. Porphyr. 7 Hor. od. 4. 6.28. Poll. 4. 123. 
Helladios af. Phot. 6767. p. 535 b 33 ff. Bekker. Phot. /ex. s.v. Aozias. Eustath. 27 Z/. 
p- 166, 23 f. Of the passages cited by Harpokr. etc. the least equivocal is Soph. Laocoon 
frag. 341 Nauck?, 370 Jebb dure  dyueds Bwuds arulfwv rupl | cutpyyns cradaypous, 
BapBdpous (cradaypuots BapBdpovs Harpocr. libri fere omnes) evoopias. 

? First by F. Wieseler ‘Interno all’ ’Ayuceds ossia dyueds Bwuos, ed alcune rappre- 
sentanze di esso sopra monumenti’ in the Amz, d. /mst. 1858 xxx. 222—227 (cp. Helbig 
Wandgem. Camp. p. 490 Index s.v. ?’Ayuetds Bwuds), then by E. Reisch in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. i. g10, 912, and last by A. C. Pearson on Soph. frag. 370 Jebb 
(supra n. t). 

3 J. Six ‘Der Agyieus des Mys’ in the A¢h. Mitth. 1894 xix. 344f., Gruppe Gr. ALyth. 
Rel. p. 776 n. 1, De Visser De Gr. dits non ref. spec. hum. p. 47 f. § 23. 

We must, however, admit that the shape of the Agyzezis was somewhat variable. Six 
Joc. cit. 1894 xix. 340—345 figs. 1—7 holds that a conical limestone pillar at Korkyra 
inscribed Mis ye hic|aro and three blocks still standing on quadrangular plinths beside 
house-doors at Pompeii (a cone of dark lava in the Strada dell Abbondanza=reg. Viil. 3. 2, 
a limestone omphalds in the Strada della Fortuna=reg. vi. 14. 14, a round-topped s¢ée of 
travertine in the Strada Stabiana=reg. ix. 3. 3) served as Agyzedés-stones: but see A. Mau 
7b. p. 344n. 2. Helladios a. Phot. 6267. p. 535 b 34f. speaks of Bwuor...crpoyythov—a 
loose phrase, which would cover a variety of shapes. 

+ Hesych. Ayuevs: 6 mpd rev OupSyv éorws Buds ev oxHmari klovos=et. mag: p- 15, 29f. 
’Ayueds’ 6 pd T&v OupOv iordmevos ev cxHmaTL Kiovos kal (kal om. codd. Vb. D.) Bwuos. 

5 Supra p. 160. 

5 Supra pp. 29 ff., 45, 7fra p. 166. On pillar-altars in general see W. Robertson Smith 
Lectures on the Religion of the Semites* London 1907 pp. 188, 487 ff., W. H. Ward Zhe 
Seal Cylinders of Western Asia Washington 1910 p. 360 ff., Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. 
fell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 112 ff., 130 ff., sepra i. 587 n. 4. 

7 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 56 pl. 12, 2 (copper of c. 400—350 B.C. oby. 
seven-stringed lyre; rev. AT OA AQLNOX® obelisk), p. 59 f. pl. 12, 9 and £2 (copper of 
229—100 B.C. obv. head of Apollon laureate; rev. ATTOAAQLNIATAN variously 
arranged to right and left of obelisk, the whole in a bay-wreath), p. 6rf. pl. 12, 15 and 
13, I (silver of 100 B.c.—Augustus obv. ANAPOLNO® head of Athena; rev. ATTOA- 
AQ. NIATAN TI MHN obelisk: copper of 100 B.c.—Augustus obv. AYE OLN 
and monogram before head of Apollon laureate; rev. ATTOAAQ. NIATAN obelisk, 
the whole in a bay-wreath), Hunter Cat. Coins ii, 2f. (copper of 229—100 B.c.), Head 
Hist. num.” p. 314, Anson um. Gr. v. 14 nos. 92—95 pl. 3, 92f., 2d. v. 15 nos. 98— 


Cal: EX 


162 A g yiews-Pillars 


in Illyria, at Ambrakia (figs. 104106)! in Epeiros, at Byzantion 





too pl. 3, A. Maier in the Wemismatische Zeitschrift 1908 p. 17. I figure two specimens 
from the McClean collection. 

8 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 79 pl. 31, 13=my fig. 102 (copper of c. 230 
—168 B.c. oby. head of Apollon laureate; rev. 2 Pl Kl ON obelisk, the whole in a 
bay-wreath), Head Azst. num.” p. 316. J. Eckhel Wend veteres anecdoti ex museis Vindo- 
bonenst, Florentino magné Ducis Etruria, Granelliano nunc Cesareo, Vitzatano, Feste- 
ticsiano, Savorgnano Veneto Vindobone 1775 p. 102, zd. Doctr. num. vet.” ii. 167 cites 
the fraudulent inscription Gruter Ziscy. ant. tot. orb. Rom. ii. 1106 no. 7 C. Atinio C. 
f. Quir. | Felici | oriundo Orico | vico Apollin. mil. | leg. vii Claudiae etc. (= Cor. znscr. 
Lat. vi. 5 nO. 1315*) as proof that Orikos was devoted to the cult of Apollon. 

9 J. Millingen Azcient Coins of Greek Cities and Kings London 1831 p. 51 f. pl. 3, 
19g=my fig. 103 (a unique specimen from the Hamilton collection—obv. head of 
Apollon laureate with [A behind it; rev. OAYMTTA STAN obelisk, the whole in a 
bay-wreath), Overbeck Gr. Kanstmyth. Apollon p. 4 n.® Steph. Byz. s.v. Atov notes 
that ethnics in -crac are a Macedonian formation; O. Hoffmann Die Makedonen, thre 
Sprache und thr Volkstum Gottingen 1906 p. 177 says ‘ besonders in Nordgriechenland 
verbreitet.’ 

1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 94 pl. 18, 1 (silver of c. 238-168 B.C. obv. 
head of Dione laureate and veiled, rev. A MA obelisk, with fillets or fillet and palm 
attached, the whole in a bay-wreath), 24. p. 94 pls. 18, 2 and 32, 3 (copper of c. 238— 
168 B.C. obv. head of Dione laureate and veiled, or of Apollon laureate (so P. Gardner 
and B. V. Head—but the necklace points rather to a goddess), or of Athena in crested 
Corinthian helmet ; rev. A MB P or A M obelisk, the whole in a bay-wreath), Hater 
Cat. Cotms il. 10 (coppers of c. 238-168 B.c.), Head Hast. num.” p. 319 f. fig. 179, 


Av yiews-Pillars 163 


(fig. 107)! in Thrace, and at Megara (fig. 108)? the metropolis of 
Byzantion. The coins in question have as their reverse type a pillar 
or baluster tapering to a point with a stepped plinth or base, a disc- 
oid capital, and occasionally an extra ring or rings on its shaft. 
Sometimes a fillet or a couple of fillets flutters from its apex. Once 
a palm-branch is attached to its side. The obverse type is com- 
monly, but not exclusively, a head or symbol of Apollon. This 
god is known to have been worshipped as Agyzezs at Acharnai', 
Athens*, Argos*®, Tegea*, Megalopolis’, and Halikarnassos*. In 


Anson Vum. Gr. v. 15 nos. 102—I104 pl. 3, 10o2f. and pl. 24, 104, Overbeck Gr. 
Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 3f. Miinztaf. 1, 2f. Silver staters of Corinthian type, referable 
to 5. iv B.C., sometimes have as symbol the Ambracian obelisk with fillet attached (S777. 
Mus. Cat. Coins Corinth, etc. p. tog pl. 29, 6, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 4 
n.? Miinztaf. 1, 1). Fig. 104 = Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 94 pl. 18, 1. Fig. 105 
is from the McClean collection. Fig. 106=W. M. Leake Mumismata Hellenica London 
1856 European Greece p. 9. On the connexion of Apollon with Ambrakia see the myth 
of Kragaleus as told by Ant. Lib. 4 after Nikandros and Athanadas (Avag. hist. Gr. iv. 
343 f. Miiller). ; 

1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thrace etc. p. 96 fig. =my fig. 107 (copper of period after 
Alexander the Great obv. BY ZA/ head of Apollon laureate; rev. APA XMA obelisk), 
Head Ast. num.* p. 269, Anson Mum. Gr. v. 14 no. 89. See also the interesting coins 
infra p. 167 figs. ILI—113. 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Attica etc. p. 121 pl. 21, 13 (copper of ¢. 307-243 B.C. obv. 
META prow of trireme; rev. obelisk, usually with fillets attached, between two dolphins), 
Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 84, Head Hist. num. p. 393 f., Anson Mum. Gr. v. 15 no. 96 pl. 3, 
Overbeck Gr. Kanstmyth. Apollon p. 4f. Miinztaf. 1, 8, Imhoof-Blumer and P. Gardner 
Num. Comm. Paus. i. 6 pl. A, 8. I figure a specimen in the McClean collection. See 
further zz/ra p. 168 n. t. 

3 Paus. 1. 31. 6 gore dé “Axapval Sjuos: ovTo. Oedy ’Amd\AwWYa TiwBow “Ayuéa Kal 
“Hpaxnéa. x.7.X. 

4 Dem. 27 Aid. 51 f. kara Tas mavreias, ev ais admdoas avnpnucvoy etpioeTe TH TONeEL, 
opolws ex Aehpav kal éx Awddyns, xopovs iordvar kara Ta WaTpLa Kal KYiody ayuas (leg. 
’"Ayuids, and so in Aristoph. eg. 1320, av. 1233, despite the oracle in Dem. c. Macart. 66 
Tas ayuas kuonvy and Loukian. Prom. 19 kody Tas ayuds, bis accus. 2 axvicwro dé ai 
dyuat, cp. Harpokr. s.v.’Ayuds= Bekker aneecd. i. 331, 30 ff. =Souid. s.v. dyviai = Zonar. 
lex. s.v.’ Ayvidis=Favorin. /ex. p. 28, 27 ff., Steph. Byz. s.v. dyusd) kal orepavndopeiv. 
avayvwb. O€ wor KaBwv adras Tas wavrelas, MANTEIATL. avdd Epexdeldnow, dooc Mav- 
dlovos daru | vaiere kal rarploor vouors lOvved Eoprds, | meuvjcOa Baxxowo, kat evpuxdpous 
kar’ ayuas | iordvac wpalwv Bpoulw xdpw (wpatov Bpouiw xopdv T. Hemsterhuis, wpaly 
Bpouiw xopdv E. Meier, wpatay Bpouiw xdpw H. Sauppe) dupya mdvras, | kal Kvicdy 
Bwwotor Kapnorepavots muxdoavras. mepl vyelas Ovew Kal evxerOar Ad ‘Trdrw, “HpaxXe?, 
*Amod\Awve Ipoorarnpiw: mepl tixas dyads ’Amé\Nwu "Ayue?, Aato?, ’Apréuds, kal Kar’ 
ayutas Kparnpas istduev Kal xopods Kal crepavapopely karTra marpra Beots ’OdvuTlos TayTEToL 
kal mdoats, l6las deguds Kal dpiorepas dvioxovTas, Kal uvacidwpeiv, Corp. inscr. Aft. ill. 1 
no. 159 ’Amé\\wve ’Ayuede (szc) | Tov Bapov | of muAwupol (szc) | Ac.... on an altar of 
é. OA.D., 2. ili, I no. 175 dyadhe TUM. | ’AwbAXNwVOS ’AyuLéws Hpocrarnpio[v] | ILarpwou 
IIvéiov KXapiov Havwriov on an altar adorned with a relief of Apollon playing the lyre 
(E. Saglio in Daremberg—Saglio Dzct, Ant. i. 169 fig. 193), 2. ill. £ no. 177 ’AmdAAwros 
"Ayuéws *ANetiKdkov on a quadrangular base of Hymettian marble found near the 
Acharnian Gate. See also Varr. af. Porphyr. zz Hor. od. 4. 6. 28, Harpokr. s.v. “Ayurds 
(supra p. 161 n. 1), Euanthius de fadeda p. 3, 9 ff. Reifferscheid. 


Lo Z 


164 Ag yiews-Pillars 


fact, the title was usually regarded as his beyond dispute. Never- 
theless there were dissentients. A literary tradition attributes the 
Agyieus-pillar to Dionysos, or at least to Dionysos in partnership 
with Apollon?; and a marble me¢a in the Villa Albani (fig. 109)? 


> Paus. 2. 19. 8 éml rovrois (sc. after the graves of Linos, son of Apollon, and Linos, 
the poet) éorlv ’Amd\Awy "Ayueds Kal Bwmos ‘Terlou Ards, k.7.2. 

6 Paus. 8.53. 1 70 6€ ’Améd\Nwe of Teyedrar T@ "Aye TA dydduara ém alria paclv 
idpioacbar rodde. ’Amd\Awva Kal” Apreuw éml macay éyouor XwWpay Tiuwpetobar TY TdTE 
avOpwrwyv ooo Anrods, hvixa eixev €v TH yaoTpl, thavwuevys Kal adixouevns és Thy viv 
éxelyny ovdéva éroijoavTo a’Tis Néyov. ws dé dpa Kai és tHv TeyearGv é€dXndvbévar rods 
Oeovs, evtavOa vidv Teyedrou DKéppov mpocehObvTa TH ’AmwdANwHL ev amoppHTw diahéyer Oat 
mpos avrov: Aewucv dé—ay b€ kal 6 Aeyuwr otros Teyedrou Tav raldwy—imovojoas éykAnua 
éyew és éavrov Ta bro Dképpou Neybueva, amwokrivvvow éeridpauwy Tov adehpoy. Kal Aewwova 
bev Tokevdévra bard ’Apréucoos trepupdOev adbrixa 7 Sikn Tov pbvove Teyearys dé kai Mapa 706 
mév mapautixa ’Amé\\wve kal ’Apréude Ovovow, torepov dé EmihaBovons axaprias ioxupas 
HAGE pdvrevua ex Aedpav Dképpov Opynveiv. kal adda Te év rod ’"Ayuews TH EopTH Spwow és 
Tiwi TOO Dképpov Kal h THs ’Apréucdos i€pera SusKee Twa are avr Tov Aewwwva 7” Apres. 
F. G. Welcker Avene Schriften Bonn 18441. 18f. cp. the mourning for Linos and in- 
terprets the names ‘Leimon, Feuchtling, und Skephros, Dérrling, deren Mutter Mara 
ist, die Sirioshitze in weiblicher Form,’—a view revived by Immerwahr A7v/¢. Myth. 
Arkad. p. 62, H. W. Stoll in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1933 f., Buslepp 2d. iv. gg f., and 
(with the omission of rash etymologies) by Preller—Robert Gv. AZyth. i. 464. Nilsson Gr. 
Feste p. 166 f. is impressed by the fact that the grave of Linos at Argos adjoined an Apollon 
Agyieds and an altar of Zeus Hyétios (supra n. 5), but points out that Leimon would 
personify the year’s vegetation better than Skephros, unless we cp. the oragpvAodpduor of 
the Karneia (zd. zd. pp. 121, 126) and hazard the guess ‘dass Leimon ein Doppelganger 
des Skephros ist, dessen redender Name den Sinn des Gebrauchs verdeutlichen sollte.’ 
Sir J. G. Frazer on Paus. doc. c#t., after F. Back De Graecorum caerimoniis in quibus 
homines deorum vice fungebantur Berlin 1883 p. 24 ff. and Immerwahr AzlZ. Myth. 
Arkad. p. 155, cp. the festival of the Agrionia at Orchomenos in Boiotia (Plout. gzaestz. 
Gr. 38) and argues that the Tegean rite ‘appears to have been a substitute for human 
sacrifices offered to make the crops grow.’ Sir W. Ridgeway Zhe Origin of Tragedy with 
special reference to the Greek Tragedians Cambridge 1910 p. 37 ff. regards Skephros as a 
local hero, whose ghost was placated by a ‘ mimetic performance’ held close to his tomb, 
and thinks that the ceremony ‘throws some light on the origin of Tragedy.’ The problem 
is complex, and none of these solutions is wholly satisfactory. Paus. 8. 5. 6 adds Teyedraus d€ 
Tod Ayuléws Ta dydhuara Técoapa elow aprOudy, bd pudr7s év Exdorys idpumévov (infra p. 454). 

7 Paus. 8. 32. 4 eloi 6€ broxataBavre ddiyov Oeoi—mapéxovTa 5é Kal ovTo oXHua TeTpA- 
ywvov (supra p. 160 n. 5), "Epydrac 6€ €or adrois émik\ynows—AOnva te "Epydvn xal 
’Amro\Awy ’Ayueds. 

8 Kaibel Zfigr. Gr. no. 786. 1 ff. (= Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no. 2661, 1 ff.=Cougny Anth. 
Pal. Append. 1. 132. 1 ff. an inscription from Halikarnassos of c. s. ii) Néooos Muppudévos 
kovpay Ads dvbero maida |"Apreuw ebd\Bor Tarde mapa mpoTUAw, | PolBwr Ayuwel Tavde 
véuwv xdpw, ov mepl Kpat[t] | dddvas evdoduous kAwvas avacréperat. | adda o[¥] of Timas 
[uépos d\Xo Te réum | er rade, | O d[va], Talc] weyddale ra’rac] em’ evoeBiar. The restora- 
tion of the last two lines is very uncertain—see A. Boeckh and E. Cougny ad “oc. 

1 Harpokr. s.v. Ayurds*... Aywebs 6€ éore xiwy eis 6&0 Ary, dv iordor mpd THY Oupwy. 
idious 6€ elval dacw adbtovs ’Amd\X\wvos, of 6€ Atoviicov, of dé duoty==Souid. s.v. ayurai= 
schol. Ald. Aristoph. vesf. 875=Bekker anecd. i. 331, 32 f. (with ‘Hou for "Arrb\\wv0s, 
cp. Cornut. ¢heol. 32 p. 69, 9 ff. Lang, schol. Eur. Phoen. 631). Harpokration has clearly 
preserved for us the opinions of various commentators on Dem. 72 Mid. 51 f. (supra 
p- 163 n. 4). 

2 G. Zoega Li bassivilievt antichi di Roma Roma 1808 i. 158—161 pl. 34 =my fig. 109, 


Ag yiews-Pillars 165 


has been interpreted in that sense. Agyzeizis is found as an 
epithet of Zeus! also; but 
whether this attribution was 
based upon existing cults we 
do not know. The statement 
of Dieuchidas, the fourth-cen- 
tury historian of Megara’, that 
the erection of Agyzezs-pillars 
was a specially Dorian custom? 
agrees with the numismatic evi- 


T. Panofka Dionysos und die Thyaden 
(extr. from the Abxh. d. berl. Akad. 1852 
Phil.-hist. Classe pp. 381 f., 390 pl. 3, 9) 
Berlin 1853 pp. 41 f., 50 pl. 3, 9, Helbig 
Guide Class. Ant. Rome ii. t f. no. 705, 
Reinach Rep. Reldefs iii. 151 no. 2, J. E. 
Harrison Themis Cambridge 1912p. 407f. 
fig. 120. This marble cone (height 14 ft. 
6 ins., diameter 2 ft.) stands on a low 
circular base (top and bottom restored) 
and has a series of square projecting ora, 
on four of which hang olive-garlands in 
relief. Towards the upper end of the 
cone is carved a band, which serves to 
attach a /agoddlon, a belt (?), and a club. 
Near the base are five figures in the neo- 
Attic style representing Apollon with his 
lyre, a Satyr with zeédrzs(?), pan-pipes, 
and /agobélon, and three Maenads (T. 
Panofka, followed by Miss Harrison, 
takes these persons to be Apollon, Pan, 
and three Horai; W. Helbig says ‘a 
Satyr and three Bacchantes dancing to 
the music of a woman playing on a 
cithara’; G. Zoega is content with ‘una 
danza bacchica,’ S. Reinach with ‘re- 
liefs bachiques’). 

? Scholl—Studemund anecd. i. 266 éridera Arés...3 dyvéws, TH dryuel. 

 E. Schwartz in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. v. 480 f. 

* Dieuchidas frag. 2 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 388 f. Miiller) af. Harpokr. s.v.’Ayuds*... 
pact F abrd Uduiov elvar Awpiéwy, ws dHAov move? Aevxldas (Acevxidas corr. I. Casaubon) év 
Th Y Tov Meyapixay and af. schol. Aristoph. vesf. 875 mepl ro ’Ayutéws ’Amd\AwYOS 
Ateuxidas (Aceuruxidas cod. Ven.; ldiws edruxlas Ald.) ottws ypdger: ‘ev b€ THe larpw 
(Aedrpw vel larpelw cj. Palmer) rovro (ro’rw cod. Ven.) diapéver, kal (kal om. cod. Ven.) 
ért Kat viv éorw (éste kai cod. Ven.) ws ’Ayweds trav Awpiéwy oiknodyTwy év TH ToTH 
dvdOnua. Kal otros (otrws Ald.) xaraunvier bre Awpiéwy éoti ra (ra om. cod. Ven.) Trav 
“EAAjvev+ robros yap ért ras oTpatias pdowaTos of Awprels dropupovmevor Tas ayulas ioTaouy 
ért kal vov 7@’Amwé\dw.”” If we may assume that Dieuchidas the Megarian is describing 
the obelisk of Apollon Xavinds, which stood in the old gymnasium at Megara (supra 
p- 163 n. 2, zzfra p. 168 n. 1), it becomes possible to re-write this very corrupt passage 
as follows: év 6¢ 7@ Oupérpw rovTw diauéver Kal ere Kal viv éorw ws Ayueds Tov Awpiéwy 
<Tav> oiknodvrwy év rE Térw avdOnua. Kal odros Karaunvier br. Awpiéwy éotl Ta TWP 





166 Omphalés and Pillar 


dence that they were largely represented in Illyria, since the Dorians 
were aé origine an Illyrian tribe’. On the whole it seems probable 
that we have here to do with an ancient Illyrian pillar-cult?, strictly 
comparable with the pillar-cult of Italy. If so, it might be main- 
tained that the Agyzezs-pillar was essentially a universe-column, and 
that Agyzeids himself, ‘God of the Way (agyzd), was originally lord 
of the road from earth to heaven*. The term agyzd is actually used 
of the soul-path by Pindar‘; and the transition from Agyzeizs in 
this hypothetical sense to Agyzers in its ordinary classical meaning 
presents no difficulty. The ‘God of the Way’ would naturally become 
the ‘God of the Street,’ especially if—as was the case at Tarentum 
and elsewhere—his pillar stood ‘before the doors’ of the houses. 


(v) Omphalés and Pillar. 


It appears, then, that the /ymzns#/ of the north had a counter- 
part on both sides of the Adriatic, the Diana-pillars of Italy being 
own cousins to the Agyzes-pillars of Greece. But at this point a 
difficulty arises. How comes it that the Italian pillars were asso- 
ciated with a goddess, the Greek pillars with a god? The answer 
to this question is to be sought in the belief that the universe- 
column was a central prop, originally a central tree, rising from 
earth to sky. Such a prop would be connected primarily with the 
earth in which it was planted, secondarily with the sky which it 


"EMqvev <roaira dya\uata>* rotras yap éml rijs orparias Pdopatos <gavévTos> ol 
Awptets arropmotmevor Tods "Ayuas iordow ert Kai vov T@’Amwé\AwHt. But ?? 

1 See Sir W. Ridgeway ‘Who were the Dorians?’ in Anthropological Essays presented 
to Edward Burnett Tylor Oxford 1907 pp. 295—308, C. H. Hawes ‘Some Dorian 
Descendants?’ in the dun. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1909-1910 xvi. 258—28o. 

2 Prehistoric tombs in Thessaly have yielded bronze rings, which perhaps attest a 
similar pillar-cult (N. I. Giannopoulos OecoaXcxai mpoeAnvixal 
érvypadal érl Bpaxwv, MOwv, oppayliwv cal dyyelwv Athens 1908 
p- 67 fig. 26 from Homolion, zd. in the "Ed. ’Apx. 1915 p. 106 f. 
no. 16 fig. with pl. 2, 16 and pl. 1, 16 (enlarged=my fig. ro), 
no. 17 fig. from Homolion with pl. 2, 17). 

8 Dr Farnell too is prepared to abandon the orthodox idea 
that the name originally designated the deity of the city’s 
streets: ‘to explain ’Ayuets,’ he says (Cults of Gk. States iv. 
150), ‘our imagination may turn back to the prehistoric epoch 
when the god—or the priest bearing his emblem—marched at 
the head of the immigrant tribe down its perilous path of con- 
quest.’ In fact we are to suppose (7d. iv. 308) ‘that the Agyieus-emblem entered with 
the wandering deity, and that it was specially consecrated by serving to mark certain 
stations along the Sacred Way from the north.’ The explanation is ingenious and, no 
doubt, possible. But the view proposed in the text is more consonant with the Germanic 
and the ‘ Minoan’ evidence. 

4 Pind. O/. 9. 50 ff. of5' Atdas dxivyrav éxe paBdov, | Bpdrea gwuad’ G Kardryer | Kolhav 
mpos (v./. és) dyuay | Ovacxévrwr (v./. OvnoxdvTwv). 








Fig. 110. 





: 
| 
. 
. 


—— See 


Omphalos and Pillar 167 


supported. It could therefore be attributed either to the earth- 
mother or to the sky-father, according as the worship of the goddess 
or the god prevailed. 

We shall hardly expect to find chapter and verse for all this in 
extant Greek literature. Crude notions are not always articulate 
and comparatively seldom emerge on the literary level. We must 
be satisfied with stray hints and glimpses: pieced together they 
may tell their tale. Of the cosmic tree there is good evidence which 
would merit further investigation’. Our concern is now with the 
cosmic pillar. W.H. Roscher in a recent monograph? has shown 
that the Greeks, like many other peoples, conceived of the earth as 
a flat disk with a central point called its omphalds or ‘navel, and 
further that within the limits of Greece a variety of towns claimed 
to possess this all-important centre. He makes out a case not only 
for Delphoi, but also for other Apolline seats—Branchidai, Delos, 
Gryneion, Patara, etc. Among possible claimants he includes By- 
zantion®’, but without proving the existence of a Byzantine omphalds. 
Proof, however, is forthcoming. Coppers of this town struck in the 
third or second century B.C. have sometimes as obverse type a lau- 
reate head of Apollon and as reverse an Agyzezs-pillar set on the 
top of an omphalés, which is covered with its net-work or agrendn 









NS 
SS 


path My } 
= 
Es 








=~ 


AS 





Fig. 181; Fig. 112. 
W. Drexler’ as the obelisk of Apollon Karinzés, who is known to 


1 T have broached the subject in Fo/k-Lore 1904 xv. 291—299. 

2? W. H. Roscher Omphalos (Abh. d. stichs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1913 
Xxix. 9. 20 ff.) Leipzig 1913 p. 20 ff. Orci 30y De 00: 

4 Fig. 111= Ant. Miinz. Berlin Taurische Chersonesus, etc. i. 147 f. a specimen from 
the Prokesch collection (rev. BY TANT ETT] MATPIKQIN obelisk), cp. Mionnet 
Descr. de méd. ant. Suppl. ii. 241 no. 215, 243 no. 229, Anson Mum. Gr. v. 14 no. QI, 
Head Hist. num. p. 268 f. 

Fig. 112=J. N. Svoronos in the ’E@. ’Apx. 1889 p. 92 pl. 1, 5 from a specimen at 
Paris (rev. BY TANTI ETT! AENEK obelisk, with tripod and K: in field to left), cp. 
Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. Suppl. ii. 241 no. 216, Hunter Cat. Coins i. 394 no. 8. 

Fig. 113=a specimen in my collection (rev. BY TAN ETT! ®2YKPI obelisk), cp. 
Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. i. 377 no. 94, Anson Mum. Gr. v. 14 no. go. 

5 We Drexler in the Zeztschr. f. Num. 1895 xix. 128 f., cp. Mum. Chron. Third Series 
1893 xiii. 233. 


168 Omphalés and Pillar 


have been worshipped in aniconic form at the mother-town Megara’. 
Drexler may be right or wrong?; but in any case the Byzantine 
pillar is of interest, because it exhibits the omphadlds, earth’s centre, 
in combination with the Agyzeizs, heaven’s prop’. 


1 Paus. 1. 44. 2 ore 6€ év TS yuuvacly TH dpxatw TAycloy TUwY KadouLEevwv Nuudddwy 
NlOos mapexduevos mupauldos oxfua ov meyadns* Tovrov (rodro codd., roirov corr. M. 
Musurus) ’A7é\Awva dvoudfovor Kapudv, cal HidecOudyv éorw évraidda iepdv. It is com- 
monly supposed that this monument is represented on the coins of Megara (supra p. 162 
fig. 108), though the small pyramid of Pausanias hardly squares with the Agyzezs-pillar on 
the coins (Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 4 f.). The epithet Kapivés is probably 
related to Kap, son of Phoroneus and first king of Megara (Paus. 1. 39. 5, 1. 44. 6), after 
whom the Akropolis of Megara was called Kapila (Paus. 1. 40. 6, Steph. Byz. s.v. Kapia) : 
K.Schwenck in the Rei. Mus. 1838 vi. 575 and Gerhard Gr. AZyth. p. 316 rashly regarded 
Kapuvés as a by-form of Kapvecos. 

2 J. N. Svoronos in the ’E@. ’Apx. 1889 p. 92 takes the obelisk on the Byzantine coins 
to be one of the bronze Lampééres of the hippodrome with a half-egg on top, citing Hesych. 
Miles. frag. 4. 37 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 153 Miiller) &@a kai viv of kapmrijpes Ondovor Ta 
Trav épbpwy (sc. Tov AvocKkotpwv) yrwpiouata Oud Tey émikemévwv Wav Tots XadKots dBeENi- 
oxois, Kodinos de signis Constantinopolitanis 30 A (p. 54 Bekker) kal tov kaumrrnpwv oi 
NiBuvor loves Kal of xadkot 6BeNioKoL THY KaumTHpwy. But the top of the obelisk is much 
more like an Agyzezis-finial than a half-egg, and the base is beyond all doubt an omphalés. 

3 Less conclusive are the following : (1) Certain autonomous coppers of Kyrene, struck 
between 323 and 305 B.C., have odv. head of Zeus Ammon, rev. an omphalds (2) topped by 
a pillar, on which rests a vase (L. Miiller Wam¢smatique de 2anctenne Afrique Copenhague 
1860 i. 54, 72 f. no. 234 fig. (=my fig. 114) and no. 235, Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 3. 
1095 f. pl. 267, 16 f.). A. Duchalais in the Rev. Mum. 1850 pl. 16, 7 (=my fig. 115), 
zb. 1851 pp. 89—95, was the first to recognise the tomb of Battos. His view was accepted 
by L. Miller Zocc. czt¢. and, more doubtfully, by E. Babelon Joc. cit. 







yeah) 


Bel 


° °° 
SSeorore® 








Fig. 116. 


(2) A copper of Deultum in Thrace, issued by Gordianus iii (238-244 A-D.), has odv. 
GORDIANVS IMP AVG bust of emperor, laureate, to left, with spear etc., vev. C F P D 
(Colonia Flavia Pacensis Deultum) an omphalés (?), with a railing (?) in front of it, topped 
by a short pillar or knob. I figure a specimen from my collection, formerly in that of 
Prince Chakow ( Versteigerung in Wien am 7. Jiéinner 1908 Briider Egger (Collection de 
Mr. le Prince Ch.) p. 20 no. 299 pl. g ‘Cultbild der Artemis (?)’). Cp. J.~ Eckhel 
Catalogus Muset Caesaret Vindobonensis numorum veterum WVindobonae 1779 i. 68 


The Delphic Omphalos 169 


(€) The Delphic Omphalos. 


The occurrence of an omphaldés-and-pillar at Byzantion leads 
us to reconsider the shape of the omphalés at Delphoi. Here, if 
anywhere, was the centre of the earth. Here, if anywhere, the sky 
would need a supporting column, an Agyzezs-pillar. Accordingly 
local tradition told how the oracle had been established by Pagasos 
and divine Agyieus, sons of the Hyperboreoi?. And ‘the author of 
the EHuropia teaches us that the image of Apollon at Delphoi is a 
pillar in the following lines: 


That we might hang for the god a tithe and trophy 
From his pure doorposts and his lofty pillar?’ 


These allusions at once become intelligible, if we assume that the 
omphalés at Delphoi, like the omphalés at Byzantion, was originally 
topped by an Agyzers-pillar. Let us be bold and make that assump- 
tion. Our pillar, erected at a time when men believed in a circular 
earth and a central sky-prop, would with increasing knowledge 
come to be viewed as the axis of a spherical world®. Nonnos de- 
scribes the Delphic omphalds as the ‘mid-navel axis*’—a description 


Deultum no. 12 (‘ Telesphorus stans’), Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. Suppl. ii. 294 no. 562 
(‘ Telesphore deb.’). 

1 Paus. 10. 5. 7 f. Bow dé émvxwpla yun twoijoaca tuvov Aedgots py katacKkevdoacbar 
TO wavrelov TH Oew Tods adixouevous EE “LmrepBopéwy ros Te &rdovs Kal ’QAAva* TodTov dé 
kal pavrevoacba mpOrov Kal doa mp@rov 7d é&dpeTpov. memolynxe 5é 7 Boww Towdde: eva 
To. eUuynotoy xpnoTnpiov éxtehécavTo | watdes “TrepBopéwy Ilayacds cal dios ’Ayueds. 
erraptOuodoa 5é kai dddous Tay ‘TrepBopéwv, érl TeXevTH Tov Uuvou Tov ’OAjva wvdmacer - 
OA 0, ds yévero TpSros Poi8o.o mpoparas, | mpOros 6’ apxaiwy éwéwy rexrdvar doday. 
On Boio see G. Knaack in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 633 f. 

Prof. J. M. MacGregor drew my attention (March 21, 1917) to the fact that Euripides 
mentions both dyuds (oz 460) and ayudrides Oepametac (Zow 186) in connexion with 
Delphoi. 

2 Eumel. frag. 11 Kinkel a. Clem. Al. strom. 1. 24 p. 102, 26 ff. Stahlin adda Kal o 
Tiv Hipwrlay (Hipwmeav Dindorf) roujoas iorope? 76 ev Aeddots dya\ua ’Amrd\Nwvos klova 
elvar 61a TOvde* dppa Hew Sexdrny axpobinid Te Kpeudoamev | oTaPuady ex fabéwy Kal Klovos 
bYndoto. Some critics (e.g. Boetticher Baumkultus p. 227, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. 
Apollon p. 5, De Visser De Gr. dits non ref. spec. hum. p. 51 § 29) are disposed to 
minimise the force of this evidence. But xiwy bwdéds here, like xiwy waxpds in the frag- 
ment of the Phoronzs cited by the same author (szfra i. 453 n. 8), certainly refers to a 
single sacred pillar, not to the whole colonnade of the temple; and, in view of other 
aniconic forms of Apollon (Overbeck of. cz¢. p. 3 ff-), we need not doubt that Clement 
has interpretéd this early couplet aright. 

3 W. H. Roscher Omphalos (Abh. d. sachs. Geselisch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1913 
xxix. 9) Leipzig 1913 pp. 41 ff., 68, 74f., 79. 

+ Nonn. Dizon. 2. 697 f. od 6€, Kddue, weodudadror dEova Baivwy | Aedpidos avdjevra 
meTepxeo Téumea IIvOots, 4. 289 ff. &Aa Kixnoas | Aehpov aovyjto.wo pecdbudadoy dEova 
Tlv@ovs | wavroctvny épéewe, kal éudpova I1vO.os dEwy | KUKNov em’ adroBdnrov (KK. Lehrs cj. 
Kukhddev adroBdnros, cp. 36. 325 3 but KUKdos atroBdqros may refer to the oracular tripod, 
cp. 13. 133 and Poll. ro. 81 76 6’ éri@nua rod rplirodos KiKNov Kal C\pov mpoojKer Kadelv) 
ebéomice KouNdde Pwvy. Cp. 27. 252 aéovos dudaloto Oenydpe Kotpave IlvOods. Similarly 


r7O The Delphic Omphalis 


which certainly suits and possibly presupposes an actual pillar’. 
It may be objected that of all the representations of the omphalés 
in ancient art, and they are many, not one has it surmounted by 
the pillar—an extraordinary omission, if my hypothesis is to stand. 
To this I should reply that the omphalés shown to travellers and 
multiplied throughout the Greek world was not the original, but a 
replica in marble placed outside the temple at the eastern end of 
the terrace (fig. 117), where indeed it has been duly discovered in 
the course of the French excavations (fig. 118). The real omphalos, 


Claud. 72 Fl. Mallii Theodori consulatum prol. 16 Pythius axis (¢#fra p. 179 n. 1). But 
see infra § 3 (a) iii (0). 

1 W. H. Roscher of. cit. p. 40 ff. cites Iambl. de myst. 3. 11 p. 127 Parthey kai why 
nye ev Bpayxtdas yur xpyopmdds. elite paBdov exovca Thy mpwrws bro Oeov Twos Tapa- 
dobetcav mAnpodrat THs Oelas avyns, elre éml adiovos kabnuévn mpodéyer TO wéddov, eiTE TOUS 
modas } Kpdomeddy Te Téyyouta TH VOare 7 ex Tod VdaTos atutfoudvn SéxeTar Tov Oedv, éé 
amdvTwv TovTav éemirniela mapackevafomevy mpos Thy Urodoxny CEwhev avTod werahauBaver 
and contends that here too d&wy denotes the cosmic axis. But must we not then read 
émi <tod> d£ovos? And in any case the mathematical &wy is perfectly compatible with 
a material xiwy (see Eustath. zz Od. p. 1389, 59 ff.): Lieut. Peary at the north pole set 
up a flagstaff. 

2 A red-figured amphora with volute handles from Ruvo (fig. 117=G. F. Jatta in the 
Ann. a. Inst, 1868 xl. 235—248 pl. E, 2d. Catalogo del Museo Jatta Naples 1869 no. 239, 
Baumeister Dexkm. ii. 1009 f. fig. 1215, P. Weizsicker in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 176 
fig. 5, R. Engelmann Szlder-Atlas zum Homer Leipzig 1889 ii. 3 pl. 4, 18, J. H. Hud- 
dilston Greek Tragedy in the light of Vase Paintings London 1898 p. 83 ff. fig. 10, Reinach 
Rép. Vases i. 321, 1, W. H. Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 103 pl. 2, 1) representing 
the murder of Neoptolemos at Delphoi depicts the scene with some pretence to topo- 
graphical accuracy. In the background stands a peripteral temple with decorated doors 
ajar. This will do for the fourth-century building (though it had Doric columns outside, Ionic 
inside) with its ivory doors. To the right of it sits AP OAAQLN with his bow, unmoved by 
the tragedy. To the left the Pythian priestess with a filleted key over her shoulder starts 
away in horror. In the foreground NEOM TOAEMOS, already wounded, takes refuge 
on the altar; OPESTAS, sword in hand, approaches him stealthily from behind the 
omphalds ; a Delphian, elsewhere called Machaireus (Roscher Lex. AZjth. ii. 2226f.), 
raises his lance to deal the fatal blow ; and the stones in the left-hand corner hint at the 
fury of the populace (Eur. Avdy. 1127 ff.). The altar here shown corresponds in position 
with that of the Chians (Frazer Pawsanias v. 309f., 631, E. Bourguet Les ruines de 
Delphes Paris 1914 p. 175 ff.), and the omphalés with that described zzfra n. 3. The 
palm-tree recalls the bronze palm dedicated by the Athenians out of the spoils won at the 
battle on the Eurymedon (Frazer of. ¢7t. y. 313, 2nfra §3 (a) iii (x)). The tripod ona 
round base in the middle distance may be reminiscent of the famous tripod dedicated by 
the Greeks who fought at Plataia (Frazer of. c#t. v. 299 ff., E. Bourguet of. cét. p. 160 ff.). 
Lastly, the tripod beside the palm-tree and the shield next to Apollon are samples of the 
votive offerings with which the whole precinct was crowded. 

® Fig. 118, after a photograph by Rhomaides (Delphoi no. 41), represents an omphalés 
of white marble found on the last turn of the Sacred Way close to the bases of Gelon 
(E. Bourguet of. cit. p- 248'n. r) and rightly identified with that described by Paus. ro. 
16. 3 (see G. Karo in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iv. 199 fig. 5404, H. Pomtow in 
Philologus 1912 \xxi. 59, W. H. Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 8rf. pl. 6, 1). That 
this omphalés was a mere replica, is sufficiently proved by the agvendn (J. E. Harrison 
‘ gis—ATPHNON’ in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1900 xxiv. 254—262) carved in relief 


ae: 


The Delphic Omphalos 


ETB §| \ 


Pn 6 <9 





172 The Delphic Omphalis 





(2 
TA 
IL 








ES 
Th | 


ee 











AY 
oP 
LF = | Lae 


MANS: Li —_— Z 
ag <v 






Fig. 118. 


upon it. The flattened top is best explained on the assumption that the apex was made in 
a separate piece, though it is possible that at some period it served as the pedestal for a 
statuette (W. H. Roscher of. cz¢. p. 82 f.: but see zmfra p. 175 n. 0). The band cut 
away round the bottom has been taken to imply that the whole omphalds was let into a 
larger base (G. Karo Joc. cit. iv. 199, W. H. Roscher of. cé¢. p. 82), but may rather indi- 
cate that it was adorned with a metal collar of acanthus-leaves like that shown in the 


vase-painting (fig. 117). 


The Delphic Omphalos 173 


unseen for example by Pausanias!, was kept—as Varro knew—‘ in 
the temple at one side®’ Delphic building-accounts of the year 
343—342 B.C. and a little later prove that the omphalés had a 
porch in front of it and was protected by carefully surfaced walls 
supporting a roof*—circumstances which suggest that, like the om- 
phalés at Argos‘, it stood in a small chapel of its own®. H, Pomtow 
provisionally locates it in the niche between the second and third 
columns of the north aisle, though he admits that it may equally 


1 On this much-disputed point see Frazer Pausanias v. 316 ff., F. Studniczka in 
flermes 1902 Xxxvil. 263, H. Pomtow in Philologus 1912 |xxi. 59f., W. H. Roscher 
Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 72 f. It was reserved for F. Courby in the Comptes rendus de 
l’ Acad. des inscr. et belles-lettres 1914 p. 259f. and in the Fouzlles de Delphes ii. 1. 72-to 
appreciate the simple truth. Yet Paus. 10. 24. 5 és 6€ ToU vaov TO éowrdrw, wapiaci Te és 
avTo dNiyo x.7.A. drops a broad enough hint, as G. Karo saw (Daremberg—Saglio Dict. 
Ant. iy. 199 ‘Vomphalos lui-méme était invisible pour le grand public’). 

2 Varr. de ling. Lat. 7. 17 et terrae medium non hoc, sed quod vocant Delphis in 
aede ad latus (sic cod. F., a//atus codd. G. H., td/atus cod. a., ablatus cod. b. Lobeck cj. 
arguatum, NRoscher danatum?) est quiddam ut thesauri specie, quod Graeci vocant 
oupaddr, etc. 

3K, Bourguet in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1902 xxvi. 42 col. i. a line 30 ff. Oevyéver ras 
eyKatatols To émustuAov Tod émit rau | mpoordcer Tat mpd TOD duparlov pucbds Spaxuai 
déxa &&. 

Ld. tb. 1902 xxvi. 65 col. il. 6 line 14 ff. Oevpdlvrox kai Diwve Tod Iactwvos | Epyou rob 
mept Tov dudaddy, m|[A]ivOwv déx[a] ErepomAEdpwv, T\[@]y mrevpiwy mapkods Tov dvw| 
o[r]ixou Tov wrd Ta WrodoKiw|, [é]kaorov Tov wevplov Spax|uall] rérolpe]s, c¥umras pods || 
[Opaxpmal rerp]dxovTa. 

During the building-operations the omphalés was safeguarded by a special construction 
of crude brick (2d. 2. 1902 xxvi. 81 ff. F Inv. no. 207, 8 ff. olkodou|[Floae wrivOos yalvacs 
mep\[i] Tov dudaddv, cp. 2d. p. 92 H Iny. no. 1802 col. iii line 3 ff. [r]|@v ox[arérwy rev 
mepi Tov 6ud]\addv). 

+ W. Vollgraff in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1903 xxvii. 270 ff. no. 28 line 1ff. Oeds. mpo- 
pdvries avébey | “Ard\Nwri “Apto[rleds DPupyldas, Pioxpdryns Naredcd|das, mpopHrac 
(Ad)oxvAos ’Apaxvd|das, Tpuyjs Aldwvidas cal xa\reckevaccay Kal éooavto [Tov] | éx 
pavrjas Tas 6upaddv xal r[a]|v mepiaracw kai 70 ddpyua Kal Tov | Bwpuov mpda(B)opor mor’ 
a(f)@ kal wér|rpivov poov Kal Tay dpxiOvpay | brép abrov Kal On aupoy év TH war\THw KaTE- 
gKevacoay Tots TeNd|vors KAgKTOY Kal Tay dddv Epydo|cayTo amavoay K.T.X. This inscription 
presumably refers to the cult of Apollon Dezvadiétes, whose temple, said to have been 
founded by Pythaeus (Telesilla frag. 3 Bergk4 ap. Paus. 2. 35. 2), stood on the way up to 
the Argive Larisa (Paus. 2. 24. I dvidvtwy 6€ és Thy axpémodw éorTe wer THS ’AKpalas”Hpas 
70 lepév, €or 6é Kal vads’ Amd\\wvos, dv vOaeds mpBros mapayevouevos ex Aehpay évyerat 
Totnoa. TO dé dyahwa TO viv xadKouv éorw dpOdv, Aecpadidrns ’AwOAAWY KadovmMeEVoS, OTL 
kal 6 Témos ovTos KaNetrar Acipds. 1 O€ of wavTikh—parreverat yap ere Kal és huds—KabéornKe 
Tpomov TovTov. yuh wev mpopyTevovod eat, avdpds evvijs elpyouevyn: Ovouévys dé év vuKtTi 
dpvos kata phva Exacrtov, yevoauévn 5 TOD aiwaros } yuri KdToXOS Ex TOD Aeod ylvera. See 
further Sir J. G. Frazer ad /oc., O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa feal-Enc. iv. 2409, 
O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 3364 ff.). It is reasonable to conclude that the 
Argive cult, if not a filial of the Delphic, was at least in some respects under the 
influence of Delphoi. 

> So G. Karo in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iv. 198, A. Frickenhaus in the d¢h. 
Mitth. 1910 xxxv. 271 n. t, H. Pomtow in Philologus 1912 |xxi. 60 f., cp. W. H. Roscher 
Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 81 n. 150. 


174 The Delphic Omphalis 


well have occupied a corresponding position in the south aisle’. 
F. Courby? by a consideration of the tasks assigned to the various 
builders has made it probable that the omphalés in fact adjoined 
the southern rather than the northern wall of the temple*. Further, 
by a careful examination of the ruins as photographed in 1894+ 
he shows that in the fourth century B.C. a side-chapel (2‘:90™ broad 
inside by 5'40™ deep) actually stood against the southern wall of 
the zads, close to its western end, thereby interrupting the inner 
line of Ionic columns®. Finally, in September 1913, buried in 
the made earth beneath this chapel he found the omphadés itself 
(pl. ix)’ It is a rough block of limestone, once coated with 


1 H. Pomtow in Philologus 1912 xxi. 61, 68 ff. fig. 

? F. Courby in the Comptes rendus de l’ Acad. des inser. et belles-lettres 1914 pp. 263, 
266, and in the Fouzlles de Delphes ii. 1.76. 

3 Pankrates was at work on the walls of the ofzs¢hédomos and on the eastern end of 
the north wall of the ads (Bull. Corr. Hell. 1902 xxvi. 65 col. iii a line 10 ff.). Theu- 
phantos and Sion placed two angle-triglyphs in the frézaos, worked at the walls round 
the ompha/ds, and saw to the western end of the south wall of the ads (2b. 1902 xxvi. 64 
col. ii é line 5 ff., 65 col. ilia line 1ff.). ‘Si les taches,’ says Courby, ‘n’ont pas été dis- 
tribuées au hasard entre les entrepreneurs et si, comme il faut bien l’admettre, quelque 
préoccupation de logique et de bon ordre a présidé a leur répartition, on supposera que 
Pankratés ayant opéré au Nord, Theuphantos et Sion opéraient au Sud, et c’est donc de 
ce coté qu’on replacera l’omphalos’ (Comptes rendus etc. 1914 pp. 263, 266, cp. Foudlles 
de Delphes ii. 1. 76). 

4 The foundations of the inner colonnade, insufficiently filled in, have since given way. 

> Courby Comptes rendus etc. 1914 p. 266: ‘Au Sud, sur une longueur de 3™ 96 a 
partir du mur ouest, couraient deux assises de blocs en calcaire, rigoureusement symétri- 
* ques a celles du soubassement nord, et qui portaient, a n’en pas douter, un troncon de la 
colonnade sud. En ce point, le soubassement est interrompu par une batisse en encoig- 
nure avec des restes d’un mur appliqué contre le cété sud de la cella, et d’un autre mur 
perpendiculaire au premier. Un examen attentif des détails que donnent les photo- 
graphies [2d. p. 264 fig. 1, p. 265 fig. 2] prouve que cette batisse est, sinon tout a fait con- 
temporaine du temple, du moins bien antérieure a notre ére.’ See further Courby in the 
Fouilles de Delphes ii. 1. 47—69 (‘Le fond de la cella’) with figs. 45—61 and pissas4s 
F. Poulsen Delphi trans. G. C. Richards London 1920 p. rsof. 

& Courby Comptes rendus etc. 1914 p. 267 f. fig. 3. 7d. in the Fouilles de Delphesii. 1. 
76 ff. figs. 64 (=my pl. ix), 65, 66, 67, 68 (=my fig. 119), 69: ‘En septembre 1913, un 
sondage pratiqué contre le mur Sud de la cella au pied des blocs a, 8, 8’ (pl. 111, et fig. 47, 
48, 49), dans le renfoncement inférieur de la fondation, fit apparaitre un petit monument 
de poros en forme d’omphalos qui reposait debout, contre le parement, sur le remblai 
provenant des fouilles (fig. 64, 65, 66, 67). Il mesure o™ 385 de diamétre et o™ 287 de 
hauteur (fig. 68). Le travail en est assez grossier ; les coups de ciseau du ravalement en 
sillonnent par endroits la surface. On apercoit encore ca et la des débris d’un stuc 
analogue a celui qui recouvrait le poros du temple au Iv® siécle. Dans un canal de section 
rectangulaire qui le traverse de haut en bas pénétre, jusqu’a o™ ro5 du bas, une tige de 
fer plate, tranchante d’un bord, a profil recourbé de ce cété et terminé en pointe, quia 
toutes les apparences d’une lame de couteau (fig. 68): deux clous (fig. 69) enfoncés en 
arriére assujettissaient solidement cette lame. On peut reconstituer ainsi ce qui s’est pro- 
duit. La cavité recevait une tige (de bois, sans doute, puisqu’il n’y en a plus trace) qu’on 
a calée, plus tard, d’une maniére assez primitive et par des procédés de fortune. A o™ 18 
environ du bas court une inscription archaique profondément gravée, ol l’on reconnait 


; ct : 7 id P 
a 


ideee!i Musite galt Adm puicl Yt ia’ 


Sey 
i 


iA 
ay 








Plate IX 





Plate IX 





a “ 
b C 


Three views of the inscribed omphalds found by F. Courby beneath the inner chapel of the Delphic '@ le 


O8e 174 fi, 





i, 


The Delphic Omphalos ‘ea 


stucco and pierced from top to bottom by a square hole. From the 
edge of this hole projects a knife-shaped blade of iron, which is 
wedged in by a couple of nails and presumably served to keep in 


i 


SS 


Ss 


SS 
Se 
=———— 


=> 





fo) 10 20 30 40 50cm 





Fig. 119. 


place a wooden stem, now lost. On the block are engraved four 
archaic letters, referable to the seventh century B.C. (fig. 120), of 
which the last three give us in the genitive case the name of 


facilement les trois lettres €@ et, peut-étre, dans le signe en z qui se voit a la suite, la 
lettre s. On lira donc: [facsimile to scale }=my fig. 120] eyas.’ ‘S’il en est ainsi, on 
s'explique peut-étre la destination de la tige qui traversait ’omphalos et qu’on a cru 
nécessaire d’y fixer solidement : on y attachait sans doute les bandelettes et les réseaux 
de l'aypyvov, mais il est probable qu’elle servait surtout 4 maintenir les images des 
deux aigles' ('On expliquera peut-étre de cette maniére la cavité profonde qui a été 
creusée au sommet de l’omphalos de marbre du Musée); ce qui nous engagerait a prendre 
le én’ atr@ de Strabon au sens de ém’ atrod, comme le voulait M. Svoronos (p. 70).’ 


176 The Delphic Omphalés 


the earth-goddess Ga! and the first appears to be the mystic 
symbol E?. 


1 The cult of Ge at Delphoi is attested by Aisch. Zum. 1 ff. mp&rov pev edxy THd€ 
mpecBevw Oeay | Thy mpwrbuavtw Tatav: éx dé ras Oduw, | 7 dy 7d wnTpds SevTépa 760” 
étero | wavreiov, ws Néyos Tis, Paus. 10. 5. 5f. pal yap 6) Ta dpxatdrara Ijs evar TO 
xpnorhptov, kai Aagvida én’ atr@ terdxOau mpduavtw bro THs VAs: elvac dé adryy Tay rept 
TO Opos vunp~av* eore 6¢ év"EAAqor roinors, dvowa pev Tots érecty Eotw Hipodrla, Movoaiw 
dé 7@ “Avriopjuov (cp. Orph. Avg. 308) mpooroovor Ta ern: TeTonuévoy oby éoTw Ev 
rovrots Ilocedavos év kow@ cal Tfs elvar 7d pavreiov, kal ri mev xpav adrjv, Locedave dé 
banpérny és TA pavTeduata elvar Tdpxwva. xal otrws éxe Ta ry: adrixa dé XOovins puvh 
(codd. cp&y 6 aut opGv, Lobeck cj. Pwvyn, Tyrwhitt cj. XOovin cpw TH cp. Dittenberger 
Syll. inser. Gr? no. 615, 25 7 XOovin) rwurdv pdro pddov, | cbv 6é re vpxwy auimodos 
«urod "Evvocvyaiov [Mous. frag. 1 Kinkel, 11 Diels]. xpévm dé torepov, dcov TH Vy meray, 
Sob Ava O€éucde bw adrfs Néyouvow, “Amwd\\wva 6é mapa O€usdos NaBety Swpedv, schol. Pind. 
Pyth. argum. 1 unrpwov dé, 6re Ijs éore 76 pavretov. The sanctuary of Ge is mentioned in 
the building-accounts ¢c. 340 B.C. (E. Bourguet in the Bul. Corr. Hell. 1902 xxvi. 65 
col. ili a line 3 f. é€v r&u oxéXec T&e ori (r)o Tas TGs iepdv) and in Plout. de Pyth. or. 17 
meptehOdvres ot érl Tov meonuBpwav kabefoueba Kpnridwy <Tod>vew mpods TO THS IAs lepov 
76 Te Hdwp aroBérovTes (ante a7oB\érovres lacuna xii litterarum in E, post aoB)ézovtes 
lacuna xi litterarum in B: W. R. Paton cj. 79s Kaocoridos ?):...rapa To vaua Kal TO Tis 
Ijs iepbv, ns Néyerac TO pavretoy yevéoOa, x.r.X. It seems likely too that at Delphoi the 
earth-mother bore at least one other name, vz. Themis (Gruppe G7. AZyth. Rel. p. 101 
n. 7, H. Pomtow in Philologus 1912 |xxi. 57f.; cp. Corp. imscr. Att. iii. I no. 318 
Eponpopas B' [I'}ijs O€usdos, 2d. iii. r no. 350 leptas Ts O€uidos, Aisch. P.v. 209 f. Outs | 
kal Data, ro\dGy dvoudrwv wopgoy ula, J. E. Harrison 7hemzs Cambridge 1912 p. 480 ff.). 
O. Gruppe of. ct. p. 101 thinks that she bore here the further titles of Melaina (cp. 
h. Ap. 369 Tata wé\awa and Melaina or Melanis or Melantho or Kelaino the mother of 
Delphos together with Melantheia or Melantho his grandmother: this view, already 
sketched by Welcker Gr. Gét¢erl. i. 326f., is attractive; but Tata wéAawva is, after all, a 
commonish tag—see Bruchmann Z7ith. deor. p. 72, and the blackness of Melaina & Co. 
need not be chthonian—see L. Weniger in Roscher Lex. J/y7th. ii. 2565 f.) and Eury- 
sterna (cp. Hes. ¢heog. 117 Tai’ evptorepvos with schol. ad loc. Mvacéas 6 Iarpeds (cod. 
C. Iarapeds) év ri rev Aedgixev xpnouav cwvaywyy (Mnaseas frag. 47 in Frag. hist. Gr. 
ill. 157 Miiller) Evpuorépvas iepév now dvacrijoac (whence Gruppe of. cif. p. 101 n. 11 
restores Hijpvorépvas | ipdy avacrioa), Paus. 7. 25. 13 DAs 6€ iepdv éorv 6 Datos (Schneider 
cj. €ort 76 Vatoy) érixXnow Bipuorépvov). 

2 In the temple at Delphoi visitors were shown three symbols resembling the letter 
E—a wooden original said to have been put up by the sages, a bronze copy of it presented 
by the Athenians, and a golden vepdica dedicated by the empress Livia (Plout. de E apud 
Delphos 3). Coppers of Delphoi struck by Hadrian and by Faustina Senior represent the 
Jacade of the temple with E in the centre of it (Imhoof-Blumer and P. Gardner Vum. 
Comm. Paus. ili. 119 pl. X, 23=my fig. 121 and pl. x, 22=my fig. 122, J. N. Svoronos in 
the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1896 xx. 36 pl. 27, 12 and 46 pl. 29, 17f., Head Hist. num.? 
p. 342). Attempts to explain the symbol have been numerous. Plout. de E apud Delphos 
3 takes E as zéyze, the five sages Chilon, Thales, Solon, Bias, Pittakos; éd@. id. 4 equates 


The Delphic Omphatlis c77 


Thus far Monsieur Courby, whose modest but convincing an- 
nouncement will rank among the most brilliant archaeological dis- 
coveries of our time. For the speculations that follow he is not 
responsible. But it seems to me that his momentous find goes a 
long way towards establishing my hypothesis of a Delphic omphalés- 
and-pillar. The slender wooden post implied by the square hole 
in the omphalés was—if I am right—none other than the ‘lofty 
pillar’ of Apollon, to which ‘tithe and trophy’ were attached in his 
earliest cult, the cult established by the Hyperboreans Pagasos and 
Agyieus'. As the veritable earth-centre it furnished the starting-point 
of later arithmology. In the mystic language of the Pythagoreans?, 


the second vowel E with the second planetary body, the sun; zd. 2b. 5 writes E as ei, 
‘if,’ ‘if only,’ a word that might introduce a question or a prayer addressed to the god; 
td. ib. 6 treats E or ef as a symbol of dialectic; 
zd. 76, 7—16 gives a Pythagorean disquisition 
on E, that is révre, as the numerical base result- 
ing from the union of the first even dvo with the 
first odd rpla; zd. 26, t7—21 concludes that E is 
for ef, ‘thou art,’ as a metaphysical invocation of 
the deity. Years ago I ventured the suggestion 
(W. H. D. Rouse Greek Votive Offerings Cam- 
bridge 1902 p. 354 n. 11, Folk-Lore 1903 xiv. 
287 f.) that the E was a sacred relic, in fact the head of Poseidon’s trident kept in the 
sanctuary, where he had an altar (Paus. 10. 24. 4) and probably a chapel (see H. Pomtow 
in Philologus 1912 xxi. 45 ff.), much as the trident of Neptune is kept affixed to the wall of 
the ancient church of S. Vigil in Tridentum, the modern 7vento, Trent (L. Schmitz in 
Smith Dict. Geogr. ii. 1230) ; and it will be admitted that the trident-head, which symbolises 
Poseidon on coins of Corinth, Leukas, Mantineia, Troizen, etc., is of the requisite shape— 
indeed Agathon 7é/ephos frag. 4 Nauck? af. Athen. 454 D describes the letter E as rpcddous 
m)ayios, ‘a trident laid crosswise.’ My friend Mr A. H. Smith once told me that in his 
opinion the mystic E might possibly be explained by the resemblance that it bears to 
the M-shaped window or smoke-hole over the door of hut-urns from Etruria etc. (7o/h- 
Lore 1903 xiv. 288). Miss J. E. Harrison (2. 1904 xv. 416 n. 271) has acutely compared 
the Delphic E with the trinity of pillars represented ¢,g. on Phoenician reliefs from 
Sardinia (G. Patroni in the Aon. d. Linc. 1904 xiv. 230f. pl. 21, 2a and pl. 25, 2) and 
suggested ‘that the E was originally three betyl stones or pillars placed on a basis and 
representing the three Charites’ (J. E. Harrison in the Comptes rendus du Congres Inter- 
nattonal d Archéologie Tere Session, Athénes 1905 pp. 194—196, citing Paus. 9. 38. 1, 
Plout. de mus. 14 (quoted znfra § 3 (a) iii (x)), schol. Pind. O/. 14. 16 mapa 7G ’Arén- 
Awvt pyot Kabeferbar ras Xdpiras dua tiv mpos avrov olkerdryra. év yodv AeAdois éml ris 
deEvas elow iOpuuévar Tod ’Amdddwvos). R. Eisler Weltenmantel und Himmelszelt Miinchen 
gto il. 489 n. 4 draws attention to a passage in the BeodoyoUueva TAs dpiOunreKfjs (theolog. 
arithm. 32 p. 30f. Ast roir@ 5) TG Tpbrw Tis SixacocWvys TS €' apiOud SicardTrara evopbelans 





Fig. 121. 


Kal THs TOU oTixou apiOuntixhs elkdvos Cvye Twe ovK amOdvus eikacbelons, TO Tapdyyehua 
Tots yrwpimos év cuuBddrov axnuate 6 IvOaydpas everoujoaro “fuydv wh brepBalvew,” 
Touréort, dikacocvyyy), according to which Pythagoras assigned the number 5 or E to 
justice and saw in it the image of scales ({vyév) : Eisler notes that this implies E ‘in der 
Stellung des M in der delphischen Inschrift.’ 

1 Supra p. 169. 

2 On which see A. Delatte Ztudes sur la littérature pythagoricienne Paris 1915 
p- 139 ff. 


Ce ; I2 


178 The Delphic Omphalos 


who are known to have been deeply interested in Delphoi’, 
the ‘axle,’ the ‘tower of Zan, and ‘ Apollon’ were all synonymous 
descriptions of the monad?; and an Orphic fragment uses ‘Agyieus’ 
with the same signification’, Further, Apollon’s ‘lofty pillar’ was 
flanked by his ‘pure doorposts# That is to say, we have once 
more’ the association of the sacred tree or pillar with a doorway, 
which we have already taken to denote the sky resting on its side- 
supports®. If this be so, we are at last in a position to solve the old 
problem of the Delphic m. It was simply a graphic expression for 
the sky upborne by its central and lateral pillars’. 

The likeness of the Delphic Agyzezs, thus reconstituted, to the 
Germanic /yminsd/ is sufficiently striking. It becomes even more 
so, when we note that the /rmznsiZ described by Widukind*® was 
erected at the gateway of the town witha pillar on either side of it 


1 Tambl. v. Pyth. 82 ri €or To Ev AeXols wavtetov; TeTpaxTUs* Sep éoTiv 7H apuovia, 
év 7 al LYepjves (H. Diels Dee Fragmente der Vorsokratiker® Berlin 1912 i. 358 n. 
explains that the Sirens produced the music of the spheres, and A. Delatte of. cet. 
p- 259 ff. adds that this harmony was the supreme revelation vouchsafed to men by Pytha- 
goras as Apollon incarnate: see, however, supra i. 258 ff.), cp. Nikomachos of Gerasa 
(?=Iambl. cuvaywyn rev Hvéayopeiwy doyudrwy 7: G. Mau in Pauly—Wissowa Real- 
Enc. ix. 647, W. Kroll zd. ix. 650) ap. Phot. d26/. p. 144 a 16 Bekker who speaks of the 
TeTpds as appuovira (sic) 7 dpuovla. Again, the Pythagoreans had their own name for the 
tripod (Hesych. rploy* 6 tad rv TvOayopixaév év Aepots rpirovs) and perhaps their own 
interpretation of the mystic E (sara p. 177 n. 0). 

? Nikomachos of Gerasa af. Phot. 626/. p. 143a 31 ff. Bekker déwy ré éorw (sc. 7 
fovas) adrots kal jALos Kal mupaduos, Kal woppw dé Kal Zavds wUpyos, Kal omepuatirys Novos, 
*Amd\Nwy Te kal mpogpyrys kal Noytos. But éd. 7. p. 1444 36 ff. describes the mevrds in 
somewhat similar terms:... Kal kuk\vovxos Kal aulfeos kal Zavds mipyos kal diduuala Kal 
diwy édpata (A. Delatte of. cit. p. 154 cj. d€ovedpata, cp. afov7\aros, in the sense ‘celle qui 
se tient ferme sur l’axe du monde’). 

3 Orph. frag. 144 Abel ap. Lyd. de mens. 2.6 p. 22, 21 ff. Wiinsch ’Op¢eds dé rov 
eva apiOmov ’Ayuréa Kael, K.T.X. 

4 Supra p. 169. 

° Supra pp. 158 ff. (Italian tree-cults with gateway or arch), t60 (dékana with 
central tree or column), 160 f., 166 (Agyzeds-pillars before doorways), 161 (pillars of Zeus 
Kataibates at Tarentum). 

5 Supra p. 160. 


SS 
7 Cp. the Egyptian signs nna and apni which depict the sky resting on or falling 


off the four pillars that support it (E. A. Wallis Budge Zasy Lessons in Egyptian Hiero- 
glyphs Londen 1899 p. 74, Sir G. Maspero Zhe Dawn of Civilization* London 1901 
p- 17 mn. 1 and 2). 

The same conception of the pillared sky found ritual expression in the great festival- 
tent erected by Ion at Delphoi (Eur. /oz 1132 ff. 6 6é veavias | ceuvds drolxous mepiBoras 
oknveudrwv | dp0ocrdras ldpved’...). That this was an imitation of the sky is-clear, not 
only from the fact that it was made big enough to hold the entire populace (7b. 1140, 
1167 f.), but also from the cosmic decoration of its roof (2. 1146 ff.: see further R. Eisler 
Weltenmantel und Himmetszelt Miinchen 1910 i. 57 ff., 156f.). 

8 Supra p. 53 f. 


The Delphic Omphalis 179 


and an eagle set upon it. The mention of the eagle brings us up 
against another long-standing puzzle. What are we to make of the 
eagles on the omphalés? Can they too be explained in the light 
of this pillar connecting earth with heaven? The Delphic eagles 
appear in classical literature from the fifth century B.C. onwards’. 
Pindar, our earliest source, writing in 462 B.C. speaks of the Pythian 
priestess ‘who sitteth beside the golden eagles of Zeus’, and an 
old Greek commentator on the passage tells the orthodox tale: 


‘A story is bruited abroad to the effect that Zeus, wanting to determine the 
centre of the world, let fly eagles of equal speed from west and east. They, 
winging their way in opposite directions, met at Pytho and by that very fact 
marked the central point of the whole world. Later, in token of what had 
befallen, he made other eagles of gold and set them up in the precinct of the 
god*’ 


Observe that, whenever this tale is told of Zeus, the teller uses the 
verb aphzénai, ‘to let fly*” We shall not be far wrong, if we surmise 
that the tale was in fact aetiological and aimed at explaining the 
cult-epithet Aphészos, which Zeus is known to have borne in the 
Megarid® and at Argos®. Unfortunately the meaning of that epithet 
is doubtful. In modern times it has been usually taken to denote 
Zeus as a rain-god’. But ‘He who lets fly’ is rather, I think, 
suggestive of thunderbolts*. Be that as it may, Zeus Aphészos was 


1 Pind. Pyth. 4. 6 ff. with schol. ad loc., Pind. frag. 27 Boeckh af. Strab. 419, Eur. 
Ton 225 (if, with F. Studniczka in Hermes 1902 xxxvii. 269, we accept C. Robert’s risky 
emendation oréumact 7 évdurév, audi dé yopy<w> | <xpuvcopadvyw Ards oiwv>), Philo- 
damos faean Dion. 123 ff. in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1895 xix. 407 (if, with O. Kern and 
H. Pomtow in Phdlologus 1912 \xxi. 61 n. 22, we may take the words vao[y]... | [y]eLo]xpv- 
geov xpvoéos TUTrols | ... dpyaivoyre to describe the two golden eagles, melted down by the 
Phocians but now renewed, and the words atréxfov kdcum to denote the omphalds itself), 
Strab. 419, Plout. de def. or. 1, Loukian. de salz¢. 38 with schol. ad loc. p. 188, 25 ff. Rabe, 
Claud. 2 Fl. Mallit Theodori consulatum prol. 11 ff., schol. Bernens. zz Lucan. 5. 71 ff. 
p- 156, 8 ff. Usener, schol. Eur. Or. 331, schol. Soph. O.7. 480. 

Delphoi was haunted by eagles in the time of Euripides (Eur. Zoz 153 ff.), and is so to 
this day (P. Gardner in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1915 xxxv. 70). Ionce saw two eagles 
hovering above the deep glen of the Pleistos—a sight to be remembered. 

* Pind. Pyth. 4. 6 ff. &v@a more xpuoéwy | Avos aierayv wapedpos | ovK amrodduou ’A7é)- 
Awl\vos tux dvTos lépea | xpHoev x.T.d. 

3 Schol. vet. Pind. Pyth. 4. 6 p. 95, 4 ff. Drachmann. 

4 Schol. vet. Pind. Pyth. 4.6 p. 95, 7 adixer, ib. p. 95, 22 adebevres, Pind. frag. 27 
Boeckh af. Strab. 419 adebévres. 

> Append. B Megaris. 6 Supra i. 117, Append. B Phliasia. 

7 Welcker Gr. Gétterl. ii. 195, Gerhard Gr. Myth. p. 169, O. Jessen in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2715, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 832 n. 4, p. I1lo n. 2. It 
remains, of course, possible that the connexion of Adéovos with dgiévar was secondary, 
cp. U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff in Hermes 1898 xxxiil. 513 f. and H. Usener Dre 
Sintfiuthsagen Bonn 1899 p. 230 ff. 

8 £.9. Ll. 8. 133 (Zeus) apjx’ apyhra Kepavydy, Od. 24. 539 Kpovidys adler Yorberra 
Kepauvor. 


12——2 


180 The Delphic Omphalis 


in all probability worshipped at Delphoi. And it is interesting to 
find that as far back as Homeric times the Pythian Apollon was 
called aphétor, ‘he that lets fly’ This appellation, which occurs but 
once, was and is still a bone of contention to Homer’s expositors?. 
It looks as though Apollon had stepped into the place of Zeus and 
inherited his local title. The archer as well as the thunderer ‘lets 
fly. Under the rule of Apollon the eagles, however, were felt to be 
a mistake. Attempts were made to rewrite the myth with the some- 
what cheap substitution of swans or ravens*. Perhaps Philomelos 
the Phocian, who seized the temple (¢. 356 B.C.) and appropriated 
the golden eagles, salved his conscience with the reflection that 
after all eagles were not the rightful birds of Apollon. Whether 
the eagles melted down by Philomelos were subsequently renewed 
in gold, we cannot say for certain. But it appears that in later 
days a pair of eagles was represented in mosaic on 
the floor to right and left of the omphalos’. 

The evidence of literature may be supplemented by 
that of art. An electrum statér of Kyzikos, struck 
¢. 450-400 B.C., shows two eagles, beak to beak, 
perched awkwardly enough on the sides of a filleted 
omphalds (fig. 123)°. This coin presumably depicts the 
famous omphalés at Delphoi, not—as W. H. Roscher 
would make out’—a counterpart of it at Branchidai. 





Fig. 123. 


1 Jl. 9. 404f. 008’ daa Adwos ovdds Apropos évrds eépyer, | PolBov’AmédAAwvos, Ivbot 
eve metpnécon cited by Diod. 16. 56, Strab. 420f., Ail. var. hist. 6. 9 Kaibel Epigr. Gr. 
no. 545, 1, Porphyrii de philosophia ex oraculis haurienda ed. G. Wolff Berolini 1856 
p- 236 Oraculorum Appendix 26 épnuatos dé NedelWerar odds adjrwp, et. mag. Pp. 177, 21 f., 
p- 546, 44f., schol. Kallim. 2. 4p. 35, 2. Artem. 250, and by Ioul. ov. 2. 80B (with éepye).. 
The same passage is the stock in trade of schol. Z/. 9. 404, Eustath. zz 77. p. 759, 63 ff., 
Apollon. lex. hom. p. 49, 15 ff. Bekker, Hesych. s.vv. agjropos, gnré (but note the gloss 
agpnropela* pavrela), Souid. s.v. apyropos, Scholl—Studemund azecd. i. 267 ’Eridera 
*Améd\NwVoS 5 aPTopos, i. 278 "Amé\wr...ag~7Twp, i. 283 "ErlGera ’Atd\wvos...dpyrwp. 

2 Consult O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2719, Prellwitz Ztym. Worterd. 
d. Gr. Spr.* p. 68, Boisacq Dict. étym. dela Langue Gr. p. 106. 

3 Plout. de def. or. 1 dero’s Twas 7 KUKvous, Strab. 419 of derol of dpeO&Tes bra Tob 
Atés,...0i 5€ képaxds pace. 

4 Schol. Pind. Pyth. 4. 7b p. 95, 24 ff. Drachmann. 

® Schol. Loukian. de sa/t. 38 p. 188, 25 ff. Rabe Aéyouow év Aedgots dudadov eat 
éml Tod eddgous Tod vew kal epi adrov alerov (derdv cod. R. H.N. Ulrichs Reisen und 
Forschungen in Griechenland Bremen 1840 i. 92 f. n. 59 cj. detrovs. F. Wieseler in the 
Ann. ad. Inst. 1857 xxix. 172 Cj. alero) yeypdpOar aro ov bécews NiOwv kal Todo €packov 
TO éoov amrdons THS Y7S. 

6 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Mysia p. 32 pl. 8, 7, Babelon Monn. gr. vom. ii. 2. 1453 f. 
pl. £77, 24, Head Ast. nam.” p. 525, W. Greenwell in the Wm. Chron. Third Series 
1887 vii. 58f. pl. 1, 23, J. H. Middleton in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1888 ix. 295 fig. 1, 
Anson Mum. Gr. iv. 43 no. 421 pl. 8. I figure a specimen in the McClean collection. 

7 W. H. Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 50f. pl. 1, 1, cp. 20. p. 36 ff. 


The Delphic Omphalis 181 


A votive relief in fine yellowish marble, found at Sparta but 
clearly Attic in style and probably carved in the last quarter of the 
fifth century B.c., has Artemis with a prdchoos filling the phidle of 
Apollon: between them is seen a plain omphaldés set on a plinth, 
which supports two eagles with reverted heads (fig. 124)'. A very 
similar relief, found at Athens, decorates a pre-Euclidean decree, 
which confers upon a certain exegete—apparently one of those 
known as Pythéchrestoci—a throne in the Prytaneion and a seat 






















Ses 
SSSSASA AYA = 







X= 
> LS 
os 








Fig. 124. 


1 Pp. Wolters in the Ath. Mitth. 1887 xii. 378 ff. pl. 12, J. H. Middleton in the Jozrz. 
flell. Stud. 1888 ix. 295 f. (wrongly takes Artemis to be Nike), Overbeck Gr. Kimnstmyth. 
Apollon pp. 364f., 523, F. Studniczka in Hermes 1902 xxxvii. 267 fig. 6 (suggests that 
the omphalés was originally painted with an agrendn), G. Karo in Daremberg—Saglio 
Dict. Ant. iv. 199 fig. 5403, M. N. Tod and A. J. B. Wace A Catalogue of the Sparta 
Museum Oxford 1906 p. 181 no. 468 fig. 59, cp. 2d. p. 125 f. (where the relief is dated as 
late as s. iii B.C.), J. N. Svoronos in the Journ. Intern. d’ Arch. Num. 191 xiii. 308 f. 
fig. 2, W. H. Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 84 pl. 7, 4. Height 0°46™, breadth 0°57™. 


182 | The Delphic Omphalis 


of honour in the theatre: the sculptured subject was practically 
identical with that of the relief from Sparta, except that here the 
carefully spaced lettering leads J. N. Svoronos to conjecture the 
former existence of another figure, perhaps Leto, to the left of 
Apollon and Artemis (fig. 125) A third relief, referable to the 





"Any 





Zi Pe Ly) on By, y SN, 


py TAN e Ea 


@vE) KA] TOIABMOIANT 1 KP ATIARS 
Se PERT, TATE? LLONS ENOS & x 
ee AFANE I] Lb ZNEAY TONEXES EAE 

1<>ODONO NT EES EL ENENTO J 

ono eA KALE ISTAKAIBA 

ACNTONO | E STATA IPA a, 

‘Me OTANALIS KOR TERME SS 

, a AEP .&, Tha 

BO Ree EAPARME: 









Es 







Fig. 125. 


opening years of the fourth century B.c, was found at Phaleron 
between the parallel Long Walls in a precinct dedicated to Kephisos 


1 A. Wilhelm in the /ahvesh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1898 i Beiblatt p. 43, F. Studniczka 
in Hermes 1902 xxxvii. 267, G. Karo in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iv. 199 n. 16, 
and especially J. N. Svoronos ‘Wydicua ’Arrixov avéxdorov kal of dudadol trav ITvblwy’ 
in the Journ. Intern. a’ Arch. Num. 1911 xiii. 301—316 with 13 figs., of which fig. 1 
shows our relief, z@. Ath. Nalionalmus. nee 211, 1=my fig. 125, W. H. Roscher Omphalos 
Leipzig 1913 p. 84 ff. pl. 9, 5. Height 0°55™, breadth 0°37™. 


oo 2? 





Plate X 


SS) 


~~ Sao ee SON S j 
SSS 8 = Ny 
< SSS Jess 
. NNW 


SADBALY 


SN WIAs 
MIM 
WS 


ec ey 

“ ———_————— 

: OC) , 
xe 


SSSSSSSS 


y 2 
1 
we —— 
oe ERRATA Ae 


Ss ee SE 
Sh SSS WOOL WSaasas 
SS SSSA SENS SSS 


I ig | 

















a 
me itt SSRN SESS Cente 
EBQ2wwy 


We 


ASS 











See page 182 ff. 


krateia and her boy supplicate Kephisos and the deities associated with him. 


ron: Xeno 


Relief from Phale 





The Delphic Omphalos 183 


and sundry associated deities. This magnificent slab of Pentelic 
marble (pl. x)! fits into a large pillar-like base of féros, which is 
inscribed—partly in prose and partly in verse—as follows : 


‘Xenokrateia, wife of Xeniades from the deme Cholleidai, as daughter (before 
her marriage) and mother (after it) set up by way of oblation and dedicated to 
Kephisos and the gods that share his altar this gift to instruct whoso will to 
sacrifice with a view to the consummation of blessings”. 


It would seem that Xenokrateia had gained her heart’s desire, a 
man-child born in lawful wedlock, by promising this tablet to 
Kephisos and the other fertility-powers that shared his altar. Their 
names are recorded on a sacred boundary-stone from the same 
site: ‘To Hestia, Kephisos, Apollon Pyzhzos, Leto, Artemis Lochia, 
Eileithyia, Acheloios, Kalliroe, the Geraistian birth-nymphs, and 
Rhapso?®. The list serves as a key to the composition of our relief‘. 
On the left is Apollon Pythios: he sits on a tripod-throne with a 
griffin for arm-rest, two coiled snakes for rings and back, and the 
omphalés with its eagles for foot-stool. Beside him in the back- 
ground stands Leto binding her hair with a fillet, once added in 
colour. Before him Artemis holds a torch, similarly put in with 
paint. Next to these august persons are Xenokrateia and her boy, 
mere mortals and therefore figured on a smaller scale: they make 


1 B. Staes ‘’Ava@nuarixoy avdyugov éx Padjpov’ in the H¢. ’Apx. 1909 pp. 239—264 
pl. 8, map, and figs. 1—3, zd. ‘’Avaykala mpocOjxn’ 26. 1910 pp. 173—176, Stais Marbres 
et Bronzes: Athénes? p. 45 ff. no. 2756 fig., Svoronos Ath. Nationalmus. p. 493 ff. 
pls. 181 f. (pl. 181=my pl. x), G. Karo in the Archiv f. Rel. 1913 xvi. 271 f., W. H. 
Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 86f. pl. 8, 2. Height 0°57™, breadth 1‘05™. 

2 Zevoxpdrea Kygio&(t) leplov iéptcaro cal dvéOnxev | EwBwmos Te Oeois SidackaN\ias 
766e d@pov, Zeviddou Ovydr|np kal unrnp, €k XodedGv, | Avew THe BovNowévax emi | TeNcoT av 
ayaiev. Staes read the concluding words as Te\eor@v ’AydOwvr[os kal rod detva]; but 
Svoronos could discover no certain trace of any letters after dyaé@v, and certainly no 
trace of any further line such as would be needed to contain the name of Agathon’s 
fellow-eles¢és. The queer diction and arrangement of the sentence is, J think, sufficiently 
explained by the exigencies of metre, an attempt being made to hitch the whole into 
dactylic hexameters and a final pentameter (?) thus : Ze(c)voxpdrera | Kynguow iepdv idpicaro 
kal avéOncev | EvuBwmors Te Peota(c) SdackaNias Tbd¢e ddpov, | Be(c)yeddou Ouyarnp kai unrnp, 
éx Xod(A)edGv, | Pew 7H Bovouérw éml TeXeoT Gv ayabGy. Nenokrateia was no Sappho. 

3 “Horla, Knguo|@, “Aréd\XNwve | vOiar, Anrot, | ’Apréucde Aox|iar, "INecOviar, “Ax|eAcuwe, 
Kan\\cpém, Tepacc|rats Nvuparls Deve@di\acs, ‘Payot (B. Staes in the ’E¢. ’Apx. 1909 
p- 244 ff. fig. 1, Svoronos Ath. Nationalmus. p. 495, Supra i. 112 Nn. 3). 

+ This was seen first by J. N. Svoronos Joc. cit. p. 495 ff.: he did not, however, make 
sufficient use of the clue that he had himself discovered; for he takes Hestia (mentioned 
in the list) to be Ilisos (absent from the list). 

B. Staes in the "Ed. ’Apx. 1909 p. 251 ff., zd. Marbres et Bronzes: Athines* p. 45 ff. 
no. 2756, had interpreted the whole relief as illustrating the myth of Ion: according to 
him, the six figures on the left (Apollon Py¢hzos, Leto, Artemis, the Pythian priestess, 
Ion, Xouthos setting foot on the threshold of the sanctuary) are grouped at Delphoi, the 
seven figures on the right (Hermes, four Nymphs, cult-image of Artemis or Eileithyia, 
Acheloios or Kephisos) at Athens. 


184 ‘The Delphic Omphalos 


their petition to Kephisos, a youthful god with a small horn (?) 
over his forehead and his foot supported on an altar. Behind him 
and facing the spectator is an older figure, whose draperies were 
formerly perhaps completed by the addition of a painted chz¢én and 
veil: she would thus have been sufficiently characterised as Hestia'. 
Then comes a group of four females, two stately matronal forms 
facing left in conversation with two more youthful goddesses facing 
right. The older figures are the Geraistian nymphs, the younger 
Eileithyia (holding a girdle)? and Rhapso (with painted needle and 
thread ?’). On the right stands Acheloios, represented as a bull 
with human face, and behind him his daughter Kalliroe, conceived 
as a Caryatid guarding a well-house. It will be observed that these 
three reliefs show an omphalds and eagles of identical type, and that 
in each case there is some reason to connect the scene with the 
Pythion at Athens. Possibly, as J. N. Svoronos contends‘, eagles 
with reverted heads were actually to be seen on either side of the 
Athenian omphalos. 

Eagles with reverted heads occur again on a votive relief of 
white marble (fig. 126)° found in Aigina some three hundred paces 
from a sanctuary of Apollon®. This monument, which may be dated 
¢. 350 B.C., shows Apollon with a &z¢hdra in his left hand, a phzdle 
in his right, and a worshipper drawing near to greet the god. 
Between them is an omphalés without a base, but covered with 


' B. Staes and J. N. Svoronos /occ. citt. regard this figure as male, the former calling 
it Hermes, the latter Ilisos. But Hermes would have had a chlamys rather than a himd- 
zion ; and Ilisos makes a very indifferent pair to Kephisos. Staes honestly remarks ‘ré 
yuvarketoy wadNov mpdcwmov THs wopphs Ta’rns’ (Hd. Apx. 1909 p. 255). That is right : 
all we have to do is to complete her costume in paint. 

2 Svoronos Ath. Nationalmus. p. 499 n. 1 cites Theokr. 17. 60 Hidel@uay éBdcaro 
Avoif~wvov. So Cornut. ¢heol. 34 p. 73, 8 ff. Lang Hldei@ua,...7%v etxovrac éely airais 
qmiav Kat Nvolfwvov ai wélvovea, Orph. h. Prothyr. 2. 4 ff. ILpo@upala, | ...Avolfwr’, 
... |... | HiNei@uca, cp. za. h. Artem. 36. 5. 

% Svoronos (oc. cit. p. 499: ‘Mit Riicksicht auf ihr Erscheinen unter den Geburts- 
gottinnen...und die Bedeutungen des Wortes pdrrw: €v@, cvyKko\NG, cuvdrrw und sogar 
67! [1 Favorin. Lex. s.v. pdmrw.] (vgl. ém’w) diirfen wir wohl auch Rapso als eine Schutz- 
nymphe oder Moire der Ehe betrachten, speziell des Augenblicks der Entjungferung und 
der Empfangnis, der Festnahung des Embryo im Mutterleibe.’ 

4 J. N. Svoronos in the Journ. Intern. d’Arch. Num. 1911 xiii. 308 ff., cp. W. H. 
Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 84 ff. 

° J. N. Svoronos ‘ Alyivns avayugoy avabnuarixoy’ in the ’Ed. ’Apx. 1912 p. 254 f. 
pl. 22 (=my fig. 126), W. H. Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 126f. pl. 8, 3. Height 
0'50™, breadth o*455™. 

§ Four stones inscribed épos teuévous ’Amé\dwvos Iocedavos (Luscr. Gr. Pelop. i 
nos. 33—-36) mark the boundaries of the Afol/énion (tb. ino. 2, 37 mapa Td ’Amo\Ndyv[c0v]) 
or temple of Apollon (Paus. 2. 30. 1), who in Aigina bore a variety of titles (see K. 
Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Real-ZEnc. ii. 75 f.) including that of Pythios (Pind. Nem. 
3- 122 with schol. ad loc., Corp. inscr. Att. ii. 1 nO. 545, 8, II, 35 ff.). 


The Delphic Omphalos 185 


fillets and topped by the two birds. The design agrees exactly 







=) 


5 


Pn 
av 


ila 


\ 
\ * 
aS 





\ 


& 
NY 





= 





iL 







LWW 
A 


LSSELEE 
- 




















wt SRN Wy 
an 


Us 
Ss as 


Hee ys We WATS, “ 


lay. 
WW My. 4 WE j 













“a jit 


~~ > 





Fig. 126. 


with that of a copper coin (fig. 127)! struck by Septimius Severus 
at Megara, where there was an ancient cult of Apollon Pythzos°. 





1 J. N. Svoronos in the Journ. Intern. d’ Arch. Num. git xi. 312 fig. 7, zd. in the 
"Ed. ’Apx. 1912 p. 254 f. pl. 22 (=my fig. 127), W. H. Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 
p. 126f. pl. 1, 9. 

2 Paus. 1. 42. 5, cp. schol. Pind. Mem. 5. 84 Ivéia, Corp. inser. Gr. i no. 1065 
apx(cjepeds 6 ’A[mr]é\Nwvos II[vOiov? vdaéws?], 2b. i no. 1058, 4f. dywvobérny Iv|Gajur, 
Foucart Peloponnese no. 42 b, 1 Wuddewa muyunv, 8 Wv@de [ZeBalorelia lay- 





Lebas 
Kpatvov. 


186 The Delphic Omphalos 


The worshipper on the coin is probably Septimius Severus himself. 
Another copper of Megara (fig. 128)1, struck by Geta, repeats the 
type, but omits the emperor. J. N. Svoronos? and W. H. Roscher? 
infer that Aigina and Megara had similar omphalo¢ of their own in 
the service of Apollon Pythzos. 

A copper coin of Patara (fig. 129)‘, struck by Gordianus Pius, 
represents Apollon, with a bay-branch in his right hand and a 
bow (?) in his left, standing beside a small omphalés, on which 
sits a single eagle with spread wings. Another copper of Patara 
(fig. 130)*, struck in the same reign, shows the god between an om- 
phalés, surmounted by an eagle and entwined with a snake, and a 





tripod-/ébes, from which a second snake is drinking. The substitu- 
tion of one eagle for two is a noteworthy change, probably brought 
about by oriental influence ; for an eagle on a sacred stone had in 
Levantine art of the Graeco-Roman age a solar significance®, which 
would well suit Apollon and might suffice to modify his Pythian 
attribute. 

We have now passed in review the literary and the monumental 
evidence for the eagles connected with the Delphic omphalés. We 
have yet to determine their original meaning. More than fifty years 
ago C. Boetticher in the course of a careful monograph’ arrived 


| Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Attica etc. p. 124 pl. 22, 7 (‘two birds (ravens ?)’), Imhoof- 
Blumer and P. Gardner Vum. Comm. Paus. i. 6 pl. A, 9=my fig. 128 (‘omphalos sur- 
mounted by eagles, or altar on which ravens’), J. N. Svoronos in the Journ. Intern. 
ad’ Arch. Num. 1911 xiii. 312 fig. 6 (‘ Bwudmoppov dudaddv wera Sto aerSv’), 

2 J. N. Svoronos in the Journ. Intern. d’ Arch. Num. 1911 xiii. 312, zd. in the “Ed. 
"ApX. 1912 Pp. 255- 

3 W.H. Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 126 f. 

* Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon pp. 304, 310 (‘Rabe’) Miinztaf. 5,6=my fig. 129, 
W. H. Roscher Ovzphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 108 pl. 1, 17. The coin is at Paris. 

° Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lycia, etc. p. 77 pl. 16, 2 (=my fig. 130), cp. 2b. p. 77 
pl. 16, 3, J. N. Svoronos in the /owrn. Intern. d’Arch. Num. 1911 xiii. 312 f, fig. 8, cp. 
2b. fig. 9, Imhoof-Blumer Kveizas. Miinzen ii. 307 no. 2. See further W. H. Roscher 
Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 107 ff. 

6 Supra i. 603 f. fig. 475. 

7 C. Boetticher Der Omphalos des Zeus zu Delphi (Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Berlin 
xix) Berlin 1859 pp. 1—17 figs. 1—4. ; 


The Delphic Omphalis 187 


at the conclusion that the true owner of the omphalés was Zeus’, 
and compared its two golden eagles with the two gilded eagles 
that flanked the altar of Zeus Lykazos*. Whatever be thought of 
Boetticher’s main contention, the analogy that he drew is sound 
and its implications are of some consequence. The altar of Zeus 
Lykaios flanked by the gilded eagles was simply a circular summit 
of Mount Lykaion*®. I am disposed to infer that the omphalds at 
Delphoi was likewise, to begin with, a mound—a mere mass of 
earth‘, which in process of time was conventionalised into a hemi- 
spherical or ovoid stone, but to the last bore upon its surface the 
tell-tale monosyllable Gés*. This mound (the ‘Archer’s hill’ some 
called it®) supported the sky-pillar’, and was therefore haunted by 
the sky-god, who here as elsewhere came and went in the form of 
an eagle. I take it that both in Arkadia and in Phokis the eagles 
betoken the telephany of the god himself’. The fact that they 


1 Td. ib. p. 5: ‘Der Omphalos ist vom Ursprunge an das Weihethum des Zeus 
Moiragetes und der ihm beisitzenden Moiren gewesen; durch eine Reihe schicksallen- 
kender Machte, welche alle nur Zeus Willen offenbaren, vererbt er sich auf den jiingsten 
Gott der Statte, den Apollon, der nach einem bezeichnenden Worte Platons: in des Zeus 
Namen als Exeget der Satzungen und Anordnungen seines Vaters fiir die ganze Mensch- 
heit €v uéow THs yas El Tod dupadod Kabjuevos eEnyetrar’ [Plat. rep. 427 Cis 

SOT abate sae 3 Supra i. 8t ff. 

4 Cp. fig. 131=M. Rostowzew ‘ Die hellenistisch-romische Architekturlandschaft’ in 
the Rom. Mitth. 191 xxvi. 41 fig. 18 a wall-painting from a house at Pompeii (veg. vii. 
2. 18) decorated in the third or ‘ornate’ style (supra p. 143 n. 4). Height 1°17™, 
breadth 0°63™. In the centre is a sacred tree with a gateway erected over it and a statue 
of Artemis or Hekate holding torches beneath it. Close by is seen a circular wall, with 
openings in it, surrounding another tree, which bears fruit (? apples), and an omphaloid 
hillock, which is covered with an agrenén and topped by a tall tripod. The remainder of 
the picture is occupied by two persons (?man and woman), carrying ¢hyrsos and torch, 
three goats grazing, and a number of votive offerings. See further H. Heydemann in the 
Bull. d. Inst. 1868 p. 45 (‘un simulacro femminile di bronzo,...due uomini coronati...’), 
Sogliano Pitt. mur. Camp. p. 141 no. 686 (‘una divinita muliebre...due donne...’), 
A. Mau Geschichte der decorativen Wandmaleret in Pompe? Berlin 1882 p. 430. 

5 Supra p. 175 f. The Delphic omphalés was known to Pindar, Bakchylides, the 
tragedians, etc. as the ‘navel of the Earth’ (see W. H. Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 
p- 54 ff.). But neither Homer nor Hesiod mentions it as such (zd. 26. p. 10) ; our earliest 
source for the expression is Epimenides, who writes: otre yap jv yalns uéoos dudands 
ovdé Oaddoons: | ef dé Tis éoti, Peots SHAos, Ovnrotor & dpavtos (frag. 6 Kinkel ap. Plout. 
de def. or. 1)—a passage considered zzfra p. 191. 

§ Hesych. Togéiov Bouvds (ToétovBovos cod. Musurus corr. Toglov Bovvds. Dobree cj. 
Tokiov Bwuds): Tov ’Amwé\Nwvos Tod év Dikvdve. BéX\rvov b€ axovew Thy év Aedgots Nawny 
Neyouévynv: éxel yap kal 6 Spaxwy kareroke’dOn. Kal 6 dudadds THS yns Tagos éotl Tod 
Ilv@wvos. See further T. Schreiber Afollon Pythoktonos Leipzig 1879 pp. 6n. 27, 44, 
Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1256 n. 2, Tiirk in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 3404 f. 

7 Supra p. 169 ff. 

8 Zeus took the form of an eagle, when he first came from Crete to Naxos (szpra i. 
164 n. 4), consorted with Europe in the tree (sara i. 532), inspected the charms of Semele 
(Nonn. Dio. 7. 210 ff.), ravished Aigina (Clem. Rom. hom. 5. 13 (ii. 181, 184 Migne), 
Athen. 566, Nonn. Dizon. 7. 122, 7. 213, 13. 201 ff., 16. 56ff., 24. 77 ff., 33. 296f., 


188 The Delphic Omphalis 














Fig. 131. 


cp. 39. 169 f., Myth. Vat. 2. 203. Alleged representations of the scene are discussed by 
Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 399—403. See, however, Ov. met. 6. 110 ff. addidit 
t... | Iuppiter... | ...Asopida luserit ignis, and Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 841 n. 8), 
Asteria (supra i. 543 n. 6), Thaleia (supra i. 105 f.), and carried off Ganymedes (Anzh. 
Pal. 12. 64. 3f. (Alkaios of Messene), 2d. 12. 65. 1 ff. (Meleagros), Ov. met. 10. 155 ff., 
Loukian. dal. deor. 4.1 ff., Nonn. Dzon. 11. 134f., 11. 293 ff., 15. 281 f., 25. 434 ff, 
Herakleit. de xcredib. 28 p. 83, 13 ff. Festa, append. narrat. 23 p. 368, 33 fi. Westermann, 
Myth. Vat. 1. 184. An ingenious attempt to distinguish Zeus as an eagle in works of art 
representing the rape of Ganymedes is made by O. Jahn Archdologische Lettrage Berlin 
1847 pp. 20—24, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 520f., 526 ff. Atlas pl. 8, 6, 


The Delphic Omphalos 189 


were two, not one, is hardly to be explained as a device of heraldry’, 
or the result of a desire for symmetry’, or an attempt to represent 
both sides of a single bird*, or a juxtaposition of memory pictures‘, 
Rather it illustrates Usener’s law of religious development’: the 
eagles are Augenblicksgitter that have not yet coalesced into a 
Sondergott. 

But I am far from supposing that we have thus exhausted the 
import of the Delphic omphaldés. It will not do to blink the ques- 
tion: Why was a particular mound of earth reduced to a com- 
pact shape and safeguarded by a whole network of fillets? When 
W. H. Roscher shows that the term omphalés was used of earth’s 
central point®, he does indeed insist upon a truth which helps to 
explain a variety of data, but he does not—to my thinking—really 
get down to the root of things. For, after all, early man was (pace 
Piette’) a poor mathematician and knew little of circles and centres. 
No, we must assume that to him the word omphalés meant just 
what it says—‘the navel,’ that is, the navel of the human body, not 
the hub of the universe. Now there is reason to believe that the 
Delphic cult was once comparable with that of ‘Minoan’ Crete®. 


P. Weizsacker in Roscher Zex. AZjth. i. 1598 f. fig.: but see P. Friedlander in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. vii. 744). 

It may be objected that some of these transformation-scenes are palpably late figments 
(e.g. the eagle spying upon Semele), that others were probably modelled on the myth of 
Ganymedes (e.g. the eagle ravishing Aigina: so P. Friedlander Joc. czt. vii. 739), and that 
in his case earlier versions of the tale are extant not involving the bird-metamorphosis at 
all (¢d. 2b. vii. 737 ff.). But we do well to bear in mind that late writers often used early 
materials (cp. Gruppe Gr. A/yth. Rel. p. 126 n. 5), and that the appearance of Zeus as 
an eagle is supported by numerous parallels. 

1 E. Curtius Ueber Wappengebrauch und Wappenstil tm griechischen Alterthum (Abh. 
d. berl. Akad. 1874 Phil.-hist. Classe) Berlin 1874 p. 104 ff., Perrot—Chipiez Ast. de 
Art vi. 856f., M. Hoernes Urgeschichte der bildenden Kunst in Europa Wien 1898 
pp- 489 f., 495, 501 f., 630, Furtwangler Azt. Gemmen iii. 55, Sir A. J. Evans in the 
Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 152 ff. 

* A. Riegl Stz/fragen Berlin 1893 pp. 33—40.- 

* Good examples of ‘split’ quadrupeds and birds are given by F. Boas ‘ The Decora- 
tive Art of the Indians of the North Pacific Coast’ in the Bulletin of the American 
Museum of Natural Fistory 1897 ix. 144 ff. with figs.—a reference kindly supplied to me 
by my friend Dr A. C. Haddon. 

+ E. Loewy Zhe Rendering of Nature in early Greek Art trans. J. Fothergill London 
¥QO7 ps 20h figa 7. 

Supra ps 12. i. 6 Supra p. 167. 

’ E. Piette ‘Etudes d’ethnographie préhistorique iii Les galets coloriés du Mas-d’Azil’ 
in L’ Anthropologie 1896 vii. 385—427 with figs. 1—107 and Atlas of 25 col. pls., cp. 
‘Les galets peints du Mas-d’Azil’ zd. 1903 xiv. 655—660 with figs. 1—4, H. Obermaier 
Der Mensch aller Zeiten i (Der Mensch der Vorzeit) Berlin etc. 1912 p. 216 ff. col. pl. 13 
and figs. 136—138. 

8 The first priests of Apollon Dedphénios at Pytho were Kpnres dro Kywoood Muvwiov 
(2. Ap. 388 ff.: see further W. Aly Der kretische Apollonkult Leipzig 1908 p. 35 ff., 
M. H. Swindler Cretan Elements in the Cults and Ritual of Apollo (Bryn Mawr College 


Igo The Delphic Omphalis 


It is therefore of importance to observe that the Cretans too had a 
holy centre called Omphalos, where it was said that the navel-string 
of the infant Zeus had fallen to the ground. Kallimachos, having 
told how Rhea entrusted the babe to the arms of Neda, continues : 


When bearing thee from Knossos, father Zeus, 
The Nymph left Thenai (Thenai near to Knossos), 
There, lord, fell off thy navel; wherefore now 
Cydonians call that spot the Omphalian Plain}. 


Diodoros tells the same tale in substantial agreement with Kalli- 
machos : 


‘The story goes that, when he (Zeus) as an infant was being carried by the 
Kouretes, his navel fell off near the river named Triton, and that the place was 
consecrated and called Omphalos after the occurrence, the surrounding district 
being likewise known as the Omphalian Plain®.’ 


This narrative was denounced by K. Hoeck as a piece of late 


Monographs: Monograph Series xiii) Bryn Mawr 1913 pp. 22 ff., 41 f., 62 ff.). The 
leader of these Cretan settlers was Kastalios (e¢. ge. s.v. Aedpivios, et. mag. p. 255, 18 ff., 
Orion p. 46, 22 ff., Tzetz. zz Lyk. AZ. 207). After the slaughter of Python Apollon was 
purified in Crete by Karmanor (Paus. 2. 7. 7, cp. 10. 6. 7, 10. 7. 2, 10. 16. 5), the father 
of Euboulos whose daughter Karme became by Zeus the mother of Britomartis (Paus. 
2. 30. 3, cp. Diod. 5. 76, Ant. Lib. 40, Verg. Czrzs 220 ff.). According to others, Apollon 
was purified in Crete by Chrysothemis (schol. Pind. Pyth. argum. 3). This son of 
Karmanor is said to have won the prize in the earliest hymnic contest at Delphoi (Paus. 
10. 7-2). On another occasion the prize was secured by Eleuther (Paus. ro. 7. 3), perhaps 
the eponym of Eleutherna in Crete (so J. N. Svoronos in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1896 
xx. 8). Koretas, the reputed discoverer of the oracle (Plout. de def. or. 42, 46), bears a 
name suggestive of Crete (so J. N. Svoronos /oc. cit.). And Pteras, the eponym of the 
Cretan Aptereoi, was supposed by some to have built the second temple at Delphoi 
(Paus. Io. 5. Io). 

A leonine head in limestone, part of a ritual rAytén, found beneath the temple of 
Apollon (Fowzlles de Delphes iv. 1. 3 fig. 2 a, 6, v. 1. 3 ff. figs. 13, 13 a) resembles closely 
the famous lioness-7y/éx in marble found at Knossos (J. de Mot in the Rev. Arch. 1904 
ii. 217, G. Karo ‘ Minoische Rhyta’ in the Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1911 xxvi. 
254 ff. figs. 6f., F. Poulsen De/phz trans. G. C. Richards London 1920 p. 15 f. figs. 1—3, 
p- 59). A bronze axe from Delphoi, which is engraved with ‘ Minoan’ characters, will be 
figured later (s/ra § 3 (c) i (u)). And ‘Minoan’ pottery etc. has come to light in the 
Delphic precinct (Fouz/les de Delphes v. 1. 5 f., 8 ff. figs. 26—51, 15 ff. figs. 62—90, 20 f. 
figs. QI—97, V. 2. 133). 

' Kallim. 2. Zeus 42 ff. edre Oevas daréevrev ad (so J. A. F. A. Meineke for mss. ézi) 
Kvwocoio pépovoa, | Let warep, ) viudy ce (Oeval 5° eoav éyytOe Kywoood), | rovrdxe ro 
méce, Satuov, am’ dupards: evOev éxeivo | Oudddoy perémerta médov kahéovor Kvdwyves, 
cp. schol. Nik. alex. 7 dpxrov im’ éuparbecoav:...dddoe 6€ THY Kpntixhv: ’Oudadds yap 
Téomos é€v Kpyrn, ws cal KadXiuayos: méce, Satuov, dm’ dupanrds, évOev éxeivo | "Oupddor 
Meréreita médov Kahéovor Kvdwves, Steph. Byz. s.v. "Oupddvov: rémos Kpirns, mAnoiov 
Gevady kal Kywoood. éort wai OerraNias (2d. s.v. Tapavasor, cp. Ptol. 3. 13. 5). 7d eOvixdy 
’Oupanrirns (cp. Rasche Lex. Num. vi. 127). 

> Diod. 5. 70 pepouévov pev yap brd rv Kovpirwv adrod vnriov pac amoreceiv Tov 
oupadov mepl Tov morapuov Tov Kahovpevoy Tplrwva, Kai Td xwplov Te (so L. Dindorf for Mss. 
de. P. Wesseling cj. dca) rofro Kabtepwhev amd Tod Tore cuuBdvTos "Ompaddv mpocaryoper- 
Ojvar Kat TO TepiKeluevoy mediov ouolws ’Ouddde.ov. 


The Delphic Omphalis IQ 


aetiology’. But it is clear that Kallimachos and Diodoros are 
drawing upon a common source. Moreover, since Kallimachos in 
his context has been paraphrasing Epimenides with regard to the 
tomb of Zeus’, while Diodoros in his sequel mentions Epimenides 
as his first authority for things Cretan’, it is legitimate to conclude 
that poet and prose-writer alike are indebted to Epimenides. Asa 
native of Crete4,and a Koures to boot’, he would know the local 
myth. And the story, thus vouched for, must be at least as old as 
the beginning of the fifth century B.c.° That we are on the right 
track in attributing it to Epimenides appears from another con- 
sideration. Epimenides in a noteworthy couplet denied that the 
Delphic omphalés was the central point of land or sea’. Why? 
Because he knew the tale told about the Cretan Omphaldés, and took 
the word to mean ‘navel,’ not ‘central point.’ So then Knossos, 
the metropolis of the Delphian shrine’, had a sacred Omphalos, 
which c. 500 B.C. was believed to be the spot hallowed by the navel- 
string of Zeus. I submit that a like belief attached to Delphoi, and. 
that the Delphic omphalés was originally the mound in which the 
navel-string of Zeus lay buried. Dare we add that the knife-blade, 
actually found by Courby and regarded by him as mere packing 
for the wooden pillar of the omphaldés®, was the very implement said 
to have been used at the primal omphaletomta? 

This explanation of course presupposes an actual custom of 
burying the umbilical cord”. But such customs are amazingly fre- 


1 K. Hoeck Aveta Gottingen 1823 i. 177. 

=" S2pFO le Ty7 0. 3; 604 0. 1- 

3 Diod. 5. 80, cp. E. Schwartz in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2866 f., v. 678. 

+H. Diels Die Fragmente der Vorsokratiker® Berlin 1912 ii. 185 ff. has a convenient 
collection of the sources, which are critically studied by H. Demoulin Lpiménide de Crite 
Bruxelles rgor1 and O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Ence. vi. 173—178. 

5 Myronianos frag. 1 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 454 Miiller) ap. Diog. Laert. 1. 115 
Mupwriavds dé év “Omotois pyoly ore Kov’ipynta a’rov éxadovy Kpfres and Plout. v. Sol. 12 
kal Kovpyra véov abrév oi Tore dvOpwror mpoonydpevor, cp. Diog. Laert. 1. 111 émoinae dé 
Kovpyrwv kal KopuBavray yéveow. 

6 O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. vi. 174. 

7 Supra p. 187 n. 5. 8 Supra p. 189 n. 8. 

S Supra ps 175. 

10 W. H. Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 p. 18: ‘ Wer bedenkt, dass die Geburt des 
Zeus ebenso fiir das Prototyp aller menschlichen Geburten galt wie seine heilige Hochzeit 
(iepds yauos) fiir das Ur- und Vorbild aller menschlichen Hochzeiten, der wird es doch 
wohl mit mir ftir recht wahrscheinlich erkliren, dass der Mythos von der Nabelschnur des 
héchsten Gottes auch eine ahnliche Bedeutung und Behandlung dieses Organes bei den 
menschlichen Geburten voraussetzt. Ja, es scheint night unméglich, dass man in uralter 
Zeit zu Omphalion die Nabelschnur des Zeus ebenso als kostbare Reliquie zeigte und 
verehrte, wie in Delphi den Stein, den Kronos nach der Geburt des Gottes ausgespien 
haben sollte (Paus. 10, 24, 6) oder zu Tegea die Locke der Gorgo Medusa (Paus. 8, 47, 5) 
usw.’ 


1Q2 The Delphic Omphalis 


quent in uncivilised or semi-civilised communities. To quote a 
typical case: 


‘among the Maoris, when the navel-string dropped off, the child was carried 
to a priest to be solemnly named by him. But before the ceremony of naming 
began, the navel-string was buried in a sacred place and a young sapling was 
planted over it. Ever afterwards that tree, as it grew, was a ¢ohw oranga or sign 
of life for the child”.’ 


Analogous practices have survived here and there in modern 
Greece*®. Thus in Lesbos the severed portion of the cord is wrapped 
in cloth and thrown into the school, or the church, or the fields. It 
is believed that, if the cord falls in the school, the child will become 
a teacher ; if in the church, a priest ; if in the fields, a farmer. So, 
when a child hangs about a place, his mother gets angry and says 
to him: ‘Did they throw your navel there?’ Similar usages are 
reported from Kephallenia,"Aigina, Limnobria ? (4urdur) in Pisidia, 
Sinasos in Kappadokia, etc., and there can be little doubt that from 
time immemorial the Greeks have believed in a sympathetic rela- 
tion existing between the infant and the umbilical cord. It is 
therefore reasonable to conjecture that in Phokis, as in Crete, the 
navel-string of Zeus—or rather of a local king (Python ?) personating 
the sky-god*’—was deposited in a holy place. And where could it 
be more safely bestowed than beneath the central support of heaven 
itself? To make security doubly secure, the mound in which the 
relic lay buried was covered by the a@grendn with its numerous 
knots®. So far as I can see, nothing short of this hypothesis will 


1 See the examples collected by H. Ploss Das Kind in Brauch und Sitte der Volker? 
Leipzig 1884 i. r5—18, il. 194, 199 f. and Frazer Golden Bough*: The Magic Art i. 
182—201, ii. 56, 26.: Taboo p. 48, 20.2: Adonis Attis Osiris? ii. 167 ff., 22.°: Balder the 
Beautiful ii. 160 ff. 

2 Frazer Golden Bough®: The Magic Art i. 182, citing R. Taylor Ze Jka A Maui, or 
New Zealand and tts Inhabitants? London 1870 p. 184. 

3 They were collected, at the request of W. H. Roscher, by N. G. Polites in Aaoypagla 
1g12 ili. 698 ff., cp. P. D. Sepherles 2d. 1913 iv. 322, K. I. Mantzouranes 70. 1913 iv. 
323 f. See W. H. Roscher Omphalos Leipzig 1913 pp. 18 f., 131 f. 

4G. Georgeakis and L. Pineau Le Folk-Lore de Lesbos (Littératures populaires de 
toutes les nations xxxi) Paris 1894 p. 331 f.: ‘Quand on a coupé le nombril du nouveau- 
né, on l’attache dans un morceau de linge, et on le jette soit dans 1’école, soit dans l’église 
ou dans un champ: l’enfant alors sera ou instituteur ou prétre ou agriculteur. C’est 
pourquoi, quand un enfant va trés souvent dans le méme lieu, sa mére, en colére, lui dit : 
““C’est la que lon a jeté ton nombril !”’ 

° On kings impersonating Zeus see Folk-Lore 1904 xv. 299 ff., supra i. 853 f. Index, 
enfra Index ; and on the Delphic kings in particular, Fo/k-Lore 1904 xv. 402 ff. 

® Knots as protective amulets are discussed by Frazer Golden Bough® : Taboo p. 306 ff., 
P. Wolters ‘Faden und Knoten als Amulett’ in the Archiv f. Rel. tg05 viii Beiheft 
pp. 1—22, F. W. von Bissing ‘ Agyptische Knotenamulette’ 2. pp. 23—26, J. Heckenbach 
De nuditate sacra sacrisque vinculis Giessen 1911 pp. 4 f., 23, 69 ff., J. Pley De danae in 
antiquorum ritibus usu Giessen 1911 pp. 30 ff., 80 ff., a Scheftelowitz Das Schlingen- 
und Netzmotiv im Glauben und Brauch der Volker Giessen 1912 pp. 38—49- 





Plate Xl 





b 


(a) Altar as represented on a coin of the Cretan community. 


(4) Small bronze altar resembling that on the Cretan coin. 


See page 193 n. 


The Delphic Tripod 193 


account for the awful sanctity attaching to the Delphic emphalds, 
for the manifest meaning of its name, and for the peculiar character 
of its decoration}. 


(o) The Delphic Tripod. 


The Delphic Agyzezs-pillar with its side-posts and lintel was in 
a manner duplicated by the Delphic tripod. Sir Arthur Evans, when 
discussing the libation-table found in the Dictaean cave, traced 
briefly but convincingly the whole pedigree of the columnar tripod’. 
He showed that the simplest form of sacred pillar, on the top of 
which libations were poured (fig. 132)%, had already in the third period 
of the Late ‘ Minoan’ age given rise to a tripod-/ébes with a central 
stem (fig. 133)4; and that this in turn became the parent of such 


vu 
00° FP II 








Fig. 132. Fig. 133. 


types as the tripod from Corinth with three lion-goddesses for its 
supports® or the Plataean tripod at Delphoi with a coil of three 


1 The cowrie-covered case, in which the umbilical cord of the king of Uganda was 
preserved (W. Ridgeway Zhe Dramas and Dramatic Dances of non-European Races 
Cambridge 1915 p. 375 ff. figs. 8s—87), bears a superficial resemblance to the fillet- 
covered omphalés at Delphoi. 

2 Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. Igo xxi. 117 f. 

In the same context (p. 113 ff.) Sir Arthur traces the analogous evolution of the 
‘baetylic altar,’ regarding it as essentially an ‘offertory table placed above the sacred 
pillar,’ and illustrating its ultimate shape from an imperial copper of the Cretan com- 
munity (J. N. Svoronos Wumismatique de la Créte ancienne Macon 1890 i. 353 pl. 35, 36 

-(=ny pl. xi, a), cp. 2d. pl. 35, 37, K(owdv) K(pn7av)). Ata recent auction of Egyptian 
and Hellenistic antiquities I acquired a small bronze altar (pl. xi, 6: extreme height 74ins.), 
which closely resembles that of the Cretan coin. It has four legs, a thick central stem, 
and an upper tray, with widely projecting horns, so contrived that it can be lifted off from 
the pillar-like legs and the flat-topped barrel. This curious arrangement strongly confirms 
Sir Arthur’s contention that the central cylinder was the original idol. 

3 Fig. 132=Sir A. J. Evans /oc. cit. p. 117 fig. 13 an impressed glass plaque found by 
Ch. Tsountas in a grave of the lower town at Mykenai. Cp. sara i. 36f. fig. 9. 

4 Fig. 133=Sir A. J. Evans /oc. cét. p. 117 fig. 14 a similar plaque found by Ch. Tsountas 
in the same place. 

° A. Michaelis Ancient Marbles in Great Britain trans. C. A. M. Fennell Cambridge 
1882 p. 592 f., P. Gardner ‘A stone tripod at Oxford’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1896 xvi. 
275—280 with figs. rf. and pl. 12, C. Dubois in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. v. 475 
fig. 7068. Height 0°66™, lower diameter 0°54™, upper diameter 0°36™. 


Guin T3 


194 The Delphic Tripod 











Fig. 134. 


The Delphic Tripod 195 


serpents for its base (figs. 134 and 135). Now the mantic tripod also 
appears to have been of the columnar kind—witness a certain 
number of sculptured copies. Thus a handsome tripod in Pentelic 
marble, found at Ostia and preserved in the Louvre (fig. 136)’, has its 


1 The fullest collection of passages, ancient and modern, bearing on this famous monu- 
ment is that printed by Roehl Zzscr. Gr. ant. no. 70. See also E. Bourguet Les rwines de 
Delphes Paris 1914 pp. 160—162, Frazer Pausanias v. 299—307, F. Poulsen De/phi trans. 
G. C. Richards London 1920 p. 200 ff. Bourguet adopts the view advocated by H. Strack 
(Denkschr. d. Akad. Wien 1864 v Abh. p. 43 ff.), F. Wieseler (Jahrb. f. class. Philol. 1864 x. 
245 ff., 2d. Ueber den delphischen Dreifuss (extr. from the Abs. d. gott. Gesellsch. d. Wass. 
Phil.-hist. Classe xv) G6ttingen 1871 p. gt f. n.), P. Wolters (Friederichs— Wolters Gzpsab- 
giisse p. 110 ff. no. 227), and E. Fabricius (‘Das plataische Weihgeschenk in Delphi’ in 
the Jahrb. d. kats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1886 i. 176—191 
with figs.), vz. that the serpent-base was a central column 
supporting the /ées and enclosed by the legs of the tripod. 
Frazer and Poulsen favour the rival view advanced by 
P. A. Dethier and A. D. Mordtmann (‘Epigraphik von 
Byzantion und Constantinopolis’ in the Dezkschr. d. Akad. 
Wien 1864 v Abh. pp. 3—48 with figs. x, y, zand pls. 1—4), 
viz. that the feet of the tripod rested on the serpent-heads 
projecting from the top of the spiral column. Restorations 
on the former hypothesis are given by H. Strack (Denkschr. 
d. Akad. Wien 1864 v Abh. pl. 3, 24¢), B. Graef (/ahrd. d. 
kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1886 i. 189 fig.), and A. Tournaire 
(in his panorama of the precinct, Fovzlles de Delphes ii. 1 
pl. 9) ; restorations on the latter hypothesis, by P. A. Dethier 
and A. D. Mordtmann (Dezkschr. d. Akad. Wien 1864 
v Abh. pl. 2, 24, cp. pl. 4, 24a, 246), and by F. Andre 
(H. Luckenbach £rlduterungen sur Wandtafel von Delphi 
Miinchen und Berlin 1904 pp. 22—25 fig. 22). I follow 
Strack, Wieseler, etc. rather than Dethier, Mordtmann, etc. 
because (a) the extant serpent-head shows no trace of a 
tripod-foot attached to its upper surface (Dekschr. d. Akad. 
Wien 1864 v Abh. p. 12 n. 1), and (4) the monument as 
reconstructed by Dethier, Mordtmann, etc. would have 
been szz generis, whereas the monument as reconstructed 
by Strack, Wieseler, etc. fits into a whole series of recog- 
nised types. The sketch that I give (fig. 134) is a fresh 
restoration, which takes into account (1) the plinth still zz 
situ at Delphoi (Rhomaides phot. Delphoi no. 17); (2) the 
twenty-nine coils now in the Hippodrome (4/mezdan) at 
Constantinople (/Jahro. d. kats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1886 i 
pl. opposite to p. 176), (3) the serpent-heads figured in a 
Turkish miniature of 1530—1540 A.D. representing a festival in the Admeidan under 
Sultan Soliman (Denkschr. d. Akad. Wien 1864 v Abh. pp. 9, 30 pl. 1, 14¢, d, e), (4) the 
serpent-heads seen and drawn by Wheler in 1675 A.D. (G. Wheler A journey into Greece 
London 1682 p. 185 fig.), and (5) the upper part of one of the heads, found by Fossati 
in 1848 A.D. and preserved in the Museum of St Eirene at Constantinople (Denhschr. 
d. Akad. Wien 1864 v Abh. p. 8 pl. 1, 17a, 4, ¢, a). 

* Clarac Mus. de Sculpt. ii. 258—269 pl. 121 fig. 50 (=my fig. 136), Froéhner Scalpt. du 
Louvre i. 114f. no. go, Baumeister Dewkm. i. 462 fig. 510, Reinach Rép. Stat. i. 20 no. 3. 
Height 1°16. The parts restored are-the plinth, the griffin-feet, and all the lower portion 
of the monument including the hoop, the three uprights excepting one ducranium and the 
_ upper portion of another, the foliage-lyres, and the quiver-strap. 





13—2 


196 The Delphic Tripod 


lébes resting on a central shaft, which is conceived as a bay-trunk 
and entwined with a snake-—-Python presumably, since the god’s 
quiver is hanging beside it. Similarly a statuette in Greek marble 
that forms part of the same collection (fig. 137)! represents Apollon 


X 


= TEINS 












BS A] 


<o) 
| 


T p=: 
Os 





l] 
S) 
MUTI 









Po 





ly 
y — 
FD 









































pes adlis BAA MLA 
kK 200m. = 3) p All| 








Fig. 136. 


standing by a tripod, whose /édes again rests on a bay-trunk en- 
twined with a snake. These examples remind us that the name 
tripos was given to a species of bay-tree with three roots’. But a 
statuette in Italian marble at Dresden (fig. 138)*, which presupposes 
a Greek bronze‘ of Praxitelean character®, shows Apollon leaning 
on a columnar tripod of a much earlier type® If it be objected that 
the column necessary in a marble copy would have been absent 
from the bronze original, we can point not only to reliefs’ and vase- 


1 Clarac Mus. de Sculpt. pl. 346 fig. 925 (=my fig. 137), Frohner Sculpt. du Louvre i. 
97 f. no. 73, Reinach Réf. Stat. i. 175 no. 5. Height 0535". The parts restored are the 
plinth, both feet of Apollon, the tip of his nose, a patch over his left breast, his right hand 
with the bay-branch (tenon antique), his left hand with the snake’s tail, the middle of the 
snake’s body, and the greater portion of the tripod-hoops. 


2 Lact. Plac. zz Stat. Zheb. i. 509 tripos species est lauri, tres habens radices, 
Apollini consecrata propter triplicem vim divinationis. 

3B. Leplat Recueil des marbres antiques qui se trouvent dans la galerie du roy de 
Pologne a Dresden Dresde 1733 pl. 49, H. Hettner Die Bildwerke der hiniglichen antiken 
Sammlung 2 Dresden* Dresden 1881 no. 160, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon 


p- 211 Atlas pl. 22, 40 (=my fig. 138), Reinach Rg. Srat. ii. 94 no. 6. Height 4 ft. 6ins. 
4 Overbeck Gr. Aunstmyth. Apollon p. 211. 


® Overbeck of. czt. p. 208 ff., W. Klein Praxiteles Leipzig 1898 p. 158 ff. 
8 Note that the supporting column tapers dowriwards like those of ‘Minoan’ art. 
7 E. Fabricius in the Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1886 i. 186 cites the Chigi base 


The Delphic Tripod 197 


paintings (fig. 139)!, in which there is no question of structural 
exigency, as portraying such tripods, but also to sundry bases? and 
votive replicas* as furnishing ad- 
ditional proof of their existence. An 
architect’s specification, found in or 
near Athens and dated by M. Hol- 
leaux before 350 B.C., actually gives 
a detailed description of one: 


(txfra p. 199 n. 2), a relief found in the theatre 
at Athens, which shows a tripod with a central 
support in the form of a Doric pillar (L.-von 
Sybel Katalog der Sculpturen 2u Athen Mar- 
burg 1881 p. 281 no. 3912), and a relief drawn 
by F. Adler on the Akropolis, which has a tri- 
pod with a central stem broad at the base and 
rapidly tapering upwards (not in L. von Sybel 
OD. ‘Clee |. 

1 F. Wieseler Ueber den delphischen Dreifuss 
(extr. from the Adbh. a. gitt. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. 
Phil.-hist. Classe xv) Gottingen 1871 p. go n. 
adduces: (i) A red-figured amphora from Sorrento 
in the British Museum, signed by the vase-painter 
Polygnotos; this has for its main subject two 
women attaching fillets to the horns of two bulls, 
which stand before two large columnar tripods 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases iii. 209f. no. E 284, 
Gerhard Auserl. Vasenbd. iv. 10 pl. 243, W. Klein 
Die griechischen Vasen mit Meistersignaturen® 
Wien 1887 p. 199, Reinach Rép. Vases ii. 123, Fig. 138. 

1, Hoppin Red-fg. Vases ii. 376 f. fig.). (ii) A 

red-figured ozzochéde in the Pourtalés collection, which depicts Nike flying through the 
air with a fillet towards a columnar tripod (T. Panofka Antiques du cabinet du comte 
de Pourtalées-Gorgier Paris 1834 p. 30f. pl. 6, 1=my fig. 139). Both vases are referable to 
the fine style of vase-painting (c. 460—440 B.C.), and in both the tripod-support takes the 
form of a Doric column. 

2 E. Fabricius in the Jahrd. d. kats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1886 i. 187 ff. notes the 
following examples: (i) Adjoining the S. angle of the pre-Periclean Propylaia there is 
still 272 st¢z the stepped base of a columnar tripod, which cannot be later than the first 
half of s. v B.c. (R. Bohn Deze Propylien der Akropolis zu Athen Berlin & Stuttgart 
1882 p. 17 pl. 3, W. Doerpfeld in the 4th. Mitth. 1885 x pl. 2, W. Judeich Zopographie 
von Athen Miinchen 1go5 p. 198 fig. 22=M. L. D’Ooge Zhe Acropolis of Athens New 
York 1908 p. 31 fig. 7). (ii) An inscribed block, found W. of the theatre and now lying in 
the Asklepieion on the S. slope of the Akropolis, formerly supported a choragic tripod of 
the columnar kind and is assigned to a date not long after 292 B.C. (Corp. iscr. Att. il. 3 
no. 1295, Michel Recuezl a’Jnscr. gr. no. 926, Dittenberger Sy//. tnscr. Gr.” no. 710: 
Fabricius /oc. cé¢. gives section and plan). 

3 E. Fabricius Joc. cit. p. 186: ‘Unter jenen kleinen Nachbildungen wirklicher 
Dreiftisse aus Olympia [see A. Furtwangler in Olympia iv. 72 ff. nos. 534—547 pl. 27, cp. 
26. p. 212f. no. 1370 fig.] befinden sich, wie K. Purgold mir mitgetheilt hat, einige 
Exemplare [but see A. Furtwangler in Olympia iv. 73 no. 538 pl. 27], bei denen unter- 
halb des Kessels in der Mitte zwischen den Beinen ein senkrechter Stab aus ineinander- 
gedrehten Bronzedraihten angebracht ist.’ 





198 The Delphic Tripod 


‘The tripod to be fixed on the impost, after boring holes for its feet and running 
the same with lead; also a small column of Pentelic marble to be_fixed beneath 





Fig. 139. 


the tripod, with a Doric capital to it, after cutting it straight below and working 
it smooth; and the capital to be painted in encaustic!.’ 


As to Delphic usage, we may with some show of reason argue from 
the Plataean trophy to the Pythian tripod. If the former was 
columnar, it is natural to suppose that the latter was too; for votive 


1 M. Holleaux in the Ath. Aiith. 1906 xxxi. 134—144 with fig. 1: line 16 ff. éwi dé 
70 k\aTadnmTHpos Tov Tpiroda KaDapuooat, vTeT| <7 >pdvayra Tols Toal Kal TeptLoNuBboxXojoAL, 
kjal xedvioy dpapudoat Ilevredeckov bard Tov r\plaroda, Awpixov éxov 7d émlxpavoy ex’ aro, 
Um ogécavra épbov Kai Edoavra Nelov, Kal TO émi|[Kpavoy] éyKadoa. 








Plate XIl 









TV ZAZA) 







Sw 
| 


7 


—=T at 








fe 


See page 199 2. 2. 


Plate XII 












Bg a ee oe eS re 











gis> 
iy 


i 


| 


C) 
U 
| 
= 





Avan 


AV ara! 
a Be a 






















a AV AVAVAV awe nN 
\ SH 
Pat Quy » 
> &- ay 
iA b IN y 
GF 


QWeawy 






WAU ar =—— 
KB LOE 









See 
TDNLSES 
ET 


\Z 


ASA 


















oe 4 
. MER 
The Chigi base at Dresden, representing : 2 
Sv 
(a) The rape of the Delphic tripod by Herakles. SSS = 
(¢) The dedication of a columnar tripod by the Pythia and the neokéros. 
(<) The dedication of a torch by a priest and priestess. 


~ 
WEAR 





The Delphic Tripod 199 


offerings tend to repeat the pattern of the local chose sacrée’, Ac- 
cordingly the Chigi base at Dresden (pl. xii)?, which itself seems to 
have carried a columnar tripod*, represents in one of its three 
archaistic panels a Pythian priest and priestess dedicating a similar 
tripod on the top of a pillar. Moreover, archaising reliefs of the 
imperial age (figs. 140, 141)4, made in all probability to commemorate 


1 On the principle underlying this multiplication see Fo/k-Lore 1903 xiv. 271. 

2 This marble base (height 1°30™), which came to the Dresden Museum along with 
the Chigi collection, portrays (a) the rape of the Delphic tripod by Herakles, (4) the 
dedication of a columnar tripod by the Pythéa and the neokdros, (c) the dedication of a 
torch by a priest and priestess. Various archaeologists have attempted to combine the 
three scenes in a consistent whole. According to K. O. Miiller Handbuch der Archaeologie 
der Kunst® Stuttgart 1878 p. 78, P. Pervanoglu in the Azz. d. Jnst. 1861 xxxili. 119 ff., 
Friederichs—Wolters Gipsadgiisse p. 169 ff. no. 423, the central panel represents the 
struggle between Herakles and Apollon as the mythical prototype of a Pythian contest for 
a prize-tripod, the panel to the right shows the consecration of the prize, the panel to the 
left that of the torch with which the victor had won his race. The base as a whole sup- 
ported the tripod thus gained, which, to judge from the kneeling Sz/eno/, the Sdtyroz with 
drinking-cups, etc., was dedicated to Dionysos. Hence the ivy-wreath and ‘ Sardana- 
palos’ type (E. Thraemer in Roscher Lex. MZyth. i. 1117 ff., P. Wolters in the Jahré. d. 
hats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1893 viii. 179f., K. A. McDowall in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 
1904 xxiv. 255 ff., V. Macchioro in the /akvesh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1909 xii. 189 ff., 
W. Helbig Fiihrer durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klasstscher Altertiimer in Rom* 
Leipzig 1912 i. 210f. no. 320) of the zeokdros. A very different and far less probable 
explanation was given by C. Boetticher Das Grab des Dionysos (Winckelmannsfest-Progr. 
Berlin xviii) Berlin 1856 with figs. 1 f. and ‘Zu den Bildwerken der dreiseitigen Basis in 
Dresden’ in the Arch. Zeit. 1858 xvi. 197 ff. pl. 117. He took (a) as the rape of the 
tripod, marking the locality, (6) as the consecration of the tripod in which were the 
remains of Dionysos, torn to pieces by the Titans, (¢) as the consecration of a dékchos or 
phanés, symbolising the resuscitation of the god. He also supposed that the priest and 
priestess were the zeokéros and the principal ¢iyzds, and that the base carried a phavdés, 
notatripod. See further W.G. Becker Augusteum Dresden’s antike Denkmialer enthaltend 
Leipzig 1804 i. 42 ff. pls. 5—7, B. Leplat Recueil des marbres antiques qui se trouvent 
dans la galerie du roy de Pologne @ Dresden Dresde 1733 pl. 3, H. Hettner Die Bildwerke 
der hiniglichen antiken Sammlung zu Dresden* Dresden 1881 no. 80, L. Stephani in the 
Compte-rendu St. Pé. 1868 p. 46f., Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 405 Atlas 
pl. 24, 14, td. Gr. Plastik+ i. 260 ff. fig. 70 a, b, 2. p. 298 n. 203, Brunn—Bruckmann 
Denkm. der gr. und rim. Sculpt. pl. 150, Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke Ant. Denkm. ii. 
3. 328 f. pl. 27, 7, Reinach Rép. Reliefs ii. 60 nos. t—3. My illustrations are made from 
the cast at Cambridge. 

3 This is the inference usually, and in my opinion correctly, drawn from the fact that 
the upper surface of the base is triangular in shape witha smooth circular mark (124 inches 
across) in the centre of it: see the diagrams given by C. Boetticher in the Arch. Zeit. 
1858 xvi. 227f. F. Hauser Die neu-attischen Reliefs Stuttgart 1889 p. 52f. no. 69 and 
p. 117 holds that the base bore a moveable object such as a candelabrum, but admits 
(p. 52) that its reliefs must have been copied from those of a tripod-base. 

4 (1) In the Villa Albani (G. Zoega Zi basstrilievt anticht di Roma Roma 1808 ii 
pl. 99, T. Schreiber Dze hellenistischen Reliefoclder pl. 34 (=my fig. 140), Brunn—Bruck- 
mann Denkm. der gr. und rim. Sculpt. pl. 344a, Welcker Alt. Denkm. ii. 37-57 pl. 2, 3 
(=Baumeister Denkm. i. 97 fig. 103), Reinach Aép. Reliefs ili. 151 no. 3, Overbeck Gr. 
Kunstmyth. Apollon pp. 260, 262 ff., W. Helbig Fihrer durch die offentlichen Samm- 
lungen klassischer Altertiimer in Rom*® Leipzig 1913 ii. 426f. no. 1876). Restored: 


200 The Delphic Tripod 


Pythian victories’, portray a pillar built into the terrace-wall at 





Fig. 140. 


central portion of the pillar and of the figure adjoining it, together with hands or fingers, 
nose-tips, etc. 

(2) At Berlin (Ant. Skulpt. Berlin p. 373 f. no. g21, T. Schreiber of. cit. pl. 35 (=my 
fig. 141), F. Studniczka Die Stegesgoettin Leipzig 1898 p. 20 pl. 8, 38 (=zd. in the Jahrd, 
a. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1906 xxi. 77f. fig. 1), Overbeck of. cit. Apollon p. 259f. 
Atlas pl. 21, 10, zd. Gr. Plast7k4 i, 262 fig. 71, Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke Azz. 
Denkm. ii. 3. 303 ff. pl. 25, 4). Restored: only the extreme edges of the relief and the top 
of Nike’s nearer wing. Pentelic marble. Height 0°775™, breadth 1°035™. 

(3) In the Louvre (Frohner Scz/pt. du Louvre i. 42 ff. no. 12, Clarac Mus. de Sculpt. 
li. 236 pl. 120 fig. 39 (=Reinach Rép. Stat. i. 20 no. 1), T. Schreiber of. cit. pl. 36, 
Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 260, Collignon Hist. de la Sculpt. gr. ii. 652. 
fig. 344, J. Warrack Greek Sculpture Edinburgh s. a. pl. 62). Restored: the edges of the 
relief, including plane-tree, head and left leg of small statue, top of Nike’s wings, forearms 
of Apollon and Artemis, upper part of tripod, and most of pediment. Greek marble. 
Height 0'65™, breadth 108™. 

(4) In the British Museum—fragment containing left half only (Brzt. Aus. Cat. 
Sculpture i. 357 f. no. 775, Description of the collection of Ancient Marbles in the British 
Museum London 1842 ix. 157 ff. pl. 36, 2, F. Studniczka in the Jahr. d. kats. deutsch. 
arch. Inst. 1906 xxi. 79 with fig. 3 on p. 82 from a photograph by W. A. Mansell & Co. 
no. 1050). Pentelic marble. Height 2 ft. 4ins., breadth 1 ft. 9 ins. 

Other replicas, excerpts, etc. are listed by Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 260 ff. 
Atlas pl. 21, 11f. 

1 Cp. the citharodic relief of c. 400 B.c. from Miletos (? Athens), acquired by the 
Dresden Museum in 1892 (P. Herrmann in the /Jahré. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1894 
ix Arch. Anz. p, 26f. fig., F. Studniczka 24. 1906 xxi. 80 with fig. 2 on p. 79, Reinach 
kép. Reliefs ii. 60 no. 4),—a possible forerunner of the archaising series. The prototype 
is, however, to be sought in an archaic original such as the fragmentary altar of the 
Barracco Museum (Catalogue Barracco no. 82, Reinach Rép. Reliefs iii. 160 nos. 2 and 3). 


The Delphic Tripod 201 


Delphoi! and bearing a tripod of the species under discussion. We 
conclude that the mantic tripod, like these votive tripods, had a 
central support. 








Fig. 141. 


But if so, it follows that Apollon seated on his tripod is virtually 
seated on the top of a sacred pillar. He is thus a figure comparable 
with Zeus enthroned on the summit of his sky-pillar. Indeed, an 


1 The locality of the scene represented has often been discussed. Most modern critics 
have identified the temple with that of Apollon at Delphoi (so e.g. F. G. Welcker of. cét. 
ii. 42 f., 49, 53, W. Frohner of. cit. i. 42 f., Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 267 f., 
W. Helbig of. cz. ii. 426). But L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1873 p. 222 ff., 
followed by B. Graef in Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke of. cit. ii. 3. 305, argued for the 
temple of the Palatine Apollo in Rome. F. Studniczka in the Jahrb. d. kats. deutsch. 
arch. Inst. 1906 xxi. 81 ff. favours the Pythion on the Ilissos with the Olympieion in the 
background, but 74. 1907 xxii. 6—8 candidly admits that there is much to be said in 
favour of the identification with Delphoi. In particular, the chariot-frieze of the temple, 
the plane-tree in the precinct (Klearchos rep! rapoyuway 1 frag. 46 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 318 
Miiller) a. Athen. 701 D, Theophr. A7st. plant. 4. 13. 2, Plin. mat. hist. 16. 238), the 
terrace-wall rising from left to right, the small ancient-looking effigy of Apollon (Paus, 
10. 16. 8), if not also the triangular pillar supporting the tripod (?=the trophy erected by 
the Messenians of Naupaktos, on which see Homolle in the Bul. Corr. Hell. 1897 xxi. 
616 ff.), all find their readiest explanation in the Delphian precinct. 

2 Supra pp. 45 ff. (with i. 62 fig. 38), 89 f. Cp. the language of Eur. 7. 7. 1253 ff. 
tplrodl 7 év xpucéw Odooes, év dwWevde? Opdvw | wavtelas Bporots | Gerpdrwv vénwv | ddiTwv 
taro, K.T.X. 


202 The Delphic Tripod 


art-type traceable to the fifth century B.C. (figs. 142, 143)! represents 





r be 


BAKXI OANEOHKie) 


1 










re 


se senee 
ese ere 
ASOSSS as 


3 ZZ 





SILIL LE 











7A 








arinite Nhe <a ar Ne te 
: SNS ena Rae ke 
BAAS SSE IE NN tf 
ww 3 \» at pear WV Re ! 





. 
. SS 
» * «... 
F Pe ‘ eee H 4: ow 4 te Tig 
» w . oe 2 ry 4 Pe Ww our w 
o Sn. S wie EES ys ~ gh -.o% - 
barney sau Ks ST Seg ow eee are aks eS a 8 


1 A fifth-century type of Apollon on the tripod is furnished by a relief in Pentelic 
marble (height o*7o™, breadth o’69™), now at Athens (Svoronos Ath. Nationalmus. 
p- 334f. pl. 54=my fig. 142, Stais Marbres et Bronzes: Athénes® p. 238 f. no. 1389 fig.). 
The god rests his feet on a two-stepped base and raises his right hand, which may have 
held a phidle or, less probably, some attribute added in paint (bay-branch ?). Before him 
stands Artemis leaning on her bow, the string of which was presumably painted. Behind 
him stands Leto laying her right hand on the shoulder of her son. The three together 
form the Zersonnel of the Athenian Pythion (A. Furtwangler in the Ath. Mitth. 1878 iii. 
186 n. 1, Svoronos Joc. cit. p. 335). The relief is inscribed [......... ] BAKXIOANE- 
OHKE, ze. [6 detva] Baxxlou dvéOnxe. On it see further Friederichs—Wolters Gipsad- 
gusse p. 371 no. 1131, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon pp. 232, 282 Atlas pl. 20, 16, 
A. Furtwangler in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 458, T. Schreiber 7d. i. 600, B. Sauer 24. ii. 
1977 fig. 4, Reinach Rép. Reliefs ii. 327 no. 2. The same type, with some variation of 
details, occurs on a red-figured vase of ‘the second Hamilton collection (Tischbein 
Hamilton Vases i. 96 ff. pl. 28=my fig. 143, Lenormant—de Witte £7. mon. cér. ii. 142 f. 
pl. 46, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon pp. 232, 326 no. 49, 329 Atlas pl. 22, 7, 
Reinach Rép. Vases ii. 286, 2), which shows Apollon on the tripod, with a pfzd/e in his 
right and a bow in his left hand, flanked by two females (? Py¢iéa and attendant). 


The Delphic Tripod 203 

















Fig. 143. 


The figure of Apollon, isolated from this group, reappears on a handsome Apulian 
amphora with volute handles, found at Ceglie and now at Berlin (Furtwiangler Vasen- 
samml. Berlin ii. gos ff. no. 3256), the neck of which shows Orestes at Pytho pursued by 
an Erinys: between them is Apollon on his tripod with his right hand outstretched and 
his left holding a long bay-branch; two females (? Pytkéa and attendant) fly in alarm 
(Raoul-Rochette Monumens inédits @antiquité figurée Paris 1831 p. 193 ff. pl. 35, Over- 
beck Gall. her, Bildw. i. 710 f. Atlas pl. 29, 4, zd. Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 232 Atlas 
pl. 22, 8, O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. g82). Similarly a Lucanian amphora from 
Anziin the same collection (Furtwangler Vasensamml. Berlin ii. 868 no. 3148) figures 
the god with a pAzd/e raised in his right hand, but has the attribute in his left over- 
painted as a club, Apollon being thereby converted into a Herakles (E. Gerhard Berlin’s 
antike Bildwerke Berlin 1836 i. 275 f. no. 979, Lenormant—de Witte £7. mon. cér. ii. 143). 
The same figure, reversed and bereft of its attributes, but still accompanied by Leto and 
Artemis, served for Apollon Py¢hios in the dedication of Xenokrateia (swpra p. 183 
n. 1). It was even translated, without essential change, from sculpture in relief to sculp- 
ture in the round, cp. (i) a statue in the Villa Albani at Rome (S. Raffei Rzcerche sopra 
un Apolline della villa Albani Rome 1821 with views of front, side, and back, Clarac 
Mus. de Sculpt. pl. 486 B fig. 737 A=Reinach Fé. Stat. i. 249 no. 6 side-view, 
T. Panofka Die Hezlgitter der Griechen Berlin 1845 p. 5 pl. 1, 6 front-view, Overbeck 
Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 231 ff. Atlas pl. 23, 30 three-quarter position, Miiller— 
Wieseler—Wernicke Av. Denkm. ii. 3. 309 pl. 25, 14 front-view, W. Helbig Pihrer 
durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in Rom® Leipzig 1913 il. 409 f. 
no. 1848); (ii) a statue at Naples (G. Finati in the Real Museo Borbonico Napoli 1843 
xii. 1—4 pl. 41, Clarac Mus. de Sculpt. pl. 485 fig. 937 front-view, 7d. pl. 486 4 fig. 937 
three-quarter position=Reinach és. Sza¢. i. 248 no. 3 and i. 249 no. 2, Overbeck G7. 
Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 231 ff.). 

Overbeck of. c#¢. p. 282 rightly observes that in all these representations Apollon has 
a bare body with a Aimdtion wrapped about his legs. Since this is the normal costume of 
the seated Zeus, we may, I think, conclude that Apollon is here conceived as the mouth- 
piece of Zeus himself. 


204 The Delphic Tripod 


Apollon in the customary garb of Zeus, seated as his prophétes' on 
the tripod and divining with uplifted pxzd/le in the presence of 
Artemis and Leto. The tripod itself, for those that know its history, 
is tantamount to a celestial seat. The god seated upon it is for the 


l Aisch. Zum. 17 ff. réxvns 5€ vw Leds évOecov xricas ppéva | if réraprov révde wavriv 
év Opdvas (so A. Turnébe for xpdvoe M.)* | Avds rpopirns 8 éori (éorly M.) Aoéglas 
marpos (Macrob. Sad. 5. 22. 13 has marpos mpopyrns éarl Aoglas Ads). The same thought 
is expressed in 2. Ap. 132 xpyow 8 avOpwroor Ads vnuepréa Bovdrjy, h. Herm. 471 f. at 
Tunas o€ yé (6é M.) dact dajuevar éx Aros duds | wavrelas 0’, Exdepye, Avds mapa, Géopara 
mavra with E. E. Sikes ad doc., 2b. 531 ff....éméwv Te Kai epywy | ray ayabdr, doa pypui 
danuevar éx Ards duis. | wavretny d€, péprore, SuoTpepés (Siaumepés M.), jv épectvecs (G. J. 
Hermann cj. jy épeeivys), | otre ce Oéopardy éore danwevac otre Tw’ dddov (Aw M.)| 
adavdrwy: 7d yap olde Atos vdos* atrap éyw ve (this line is omitted in E.) | rusrwOels 
karévevoa kai Wuora Kaprepdy dpkov, | uh Twa vorgpw eueto (Euoto M.) Oeav aievyeverdu | 
Gov vy’ eloecOar Lnvos ruxiwdgppova Bovhyv. k.7-r., Pind. Ol. 8. 58f. ws euol padoua héyer 
Kpovléa | reupbev Bapuydovrou Acés with schol. vet. 55 b ws éuol Td onwelov Td yeyernuevoy 
é€x Tov Atds Sydot and schol. rec. 57 ofrws éuol Néyet, avTl Tob voely didwor, TO TEeuPBev 
pdopa, nyouv  meupbetoa oyrs Tod Atds Tod viod Tod Kpédvouv rod r&v Bapuvjxwy Bpovray 
alriov, Aisch. Zur. 616 ff. ovra@ror’ elroy uavtikotow év Opdvors, | ovK avdpds, ot yuvatkds, 
ov modews mrépt, | 6 py KeAevoa (keXedoee M. G. J. Hermann cj. xedev’oar, G. Wakefield 
Kedevcor, R. Porson ’xéXevoe, N. Wecklein kedevor) Zeds ONvprriwy (F. H. M. Blaydes cj. 
"ONbumeos) marhp, 2b. 713 f. Kdywrye (kaya te M. corr. R. Porson) xpynopmols Tovs éuovs TE 
kal Avds | rapBetv cededw pnd’ dxapradrovs xticar, Aisch. hiereae frag. 86 Nauck? af. 
Macrob, Sat. 5. 22. 13 oré\New Srrws TaxLoTa* Tadra yap marnp | Leds éyxabier Aokla 
Oeoricuara and af. schol. Soph. O. C. 793 doxe? yap 6’Amb\Nww mapa Avds AauBaveww rods 
xXpnouovs ws Kal év Ipixrela (Soph. frag. 292 Nauck?, where W. Schneider cj. Ipvyevela, 
W. Hippenstiel "I@ixXe? ?, W. Dindorf Oikne?) gat, kal Alox’dos év ‘Tepelas ‘orédewv 
étws TaXLoTA* Talra yap marnp | Leds éyxae? (éyxable. corr. P. N. Papageorgius) Aoglig 
<Oeoricuatra>, Kal’ Apicropavns Hpwow (frag. 19 (Frag. com. Gr. ii. 1074 Meineke)), 
Soph. O. 7. 498 f. dA 6 ev ovv Zeds 6 7 ’Amé\NwY Evverol Kai Ta Bporay | elddres, O. C. 
491 ff. dp ovK dmewor 7 od Tay OnBas ppovG; | wo\d\w y, bowmep Kak (kai A. R. Ald. ék 
L. cett. J. L.C. W. Déderlein cj. kak) cageorépwr xrd\bw, | PoiBov re ka’rod Znvés, 
ds xelvov marnp, Kallim. 4. Ap. 28f. Tov xopdy wrdd\d\wr, Ste of KaTa Oupoy delde 
(O. Schneider cj. 6re—deldy, J. A. F. A. Meineke ére—deion), | Tiywjoe* Sivarar yap, 
émel Aci defos jatar, anon. 4. Ap. 7 (E. Abel Orphica Lipsiae—Pragae 1885 p. 285) 
Swoydvov, §abeov, Snvidpova, (nvodorjpa (Brodaeus cj. (modorjpa), Verg. Aen. 3. 251f. 
quae Phoebo pater omnipotens, mihi Phoebus Apollo | praedixit with Serv. ad doc. 
notandum Apollinem quae dicit a Iove cognoscere, zd. iz Verg. Aen. I. 20 ne ipse 
quidem Apollo sua sponte divinat. etc. 

? Ennius (frag. 416 Baehrens) af. Varr. de ling. Lat. 7. 48 appears to have spoken 
of the sky as cava cortina on account of its likeness to the /ées of Apollon. The passage 
is thus printed by G. Goetz—F. Schoell (1910): apud Ennium (Azz. 9 V.?): ‘tquaeque 
in corpore cau[s]a c<a>eruleo tcelo cortina receptat.’ cava cortina dicta, quod est inter 
terram et caelum ad similitudinem cortinae Apollinis; ea a corde, quod inde sortes 
primae existimatae. C. O. Mueller (1833), followed by I. Vahlen! (1854) and L. Mueller 
(1884), restored the extract from Ennius as guae cava corpore caeruleo cortina receptat ; 
Ae. Baehrens (1886), as guaegue in corpore ——| — caua caeruleo caelo cortina receptat. 
Probably Ennius was thinking of the sky as an inverted caldron. It should, however, 
be borne in mind that the tripod-/ébes was sometimes fitted with a hemispherical lid (e.g. 
supra ipl. xiii), and that this lid might on occasion be banded with the astronomical 
zones and spangled with stars (F. Wieseler Ueber den delphischen Dreifuss (extr. from the 
Abh. ad. gitt. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe xv) Gottingen 1871 pp. 33, 59 n., 
81 n. 55, 93 n. 61, 95 fig. 7 after R. Garrucci Vetri ornati di figure in oro trovati net 


The Delphic Tripod 205 


time being in heaven, released from the limitations of terrestrial life 
and free to range in thought over land and sea (fig. 144)!. Themis 


a 
































cimitert dei cristiani primitivi di Roma Roma 1858 p. 75f. pl. 36, 5 a fragmentary 
vessel of s. iv A.D., on which we see Apollon in a loose transparent chz¢én standing 
beside his tripod, inscribed [v1]vAS MVLTIS ANNIS PIE @ zESES (, the whole being 
executed in gold foil between two layers of glass). Asklepiades of Myrlea thought 
that tripods dedicated to the gods were made round in imitation of the universe (Athen. 
489C). 

1 A magnificent red-figured hydréa, painted c. 480 B.c. and now preserved in the 
Vatican, shows Apollon, with lyre, bow and quiver, uplifted on a great winged tripod 
above the sea, in which are four fish and an octopus: the plunging dolphins mark him as 
Apollon Delphinios (Mus. Etr. Gregor. ii pl. 15 (2b.? pl. 21), T. Panofka in the Azz. d. 


206 The Delphic Tripod 


is finely conceived by a fifth-century artist as sitting on the Delphic 
tripod and fixing her gaze on the phzd/e, while she divines the future 
for Aigeus (fig. 145)!. In this masterly painting Themis is but the 
prototype of the Pythta: even the Pythéa, when she mounts the 
tripod (fig. 146, )?, lays by mortality and becomes more than human 
in her insight and foresight. 


Inst. 1832 iv. 333 ff., Mon. d. Inst. i pl. 46=my fig. 144, Lenormant—de Witte Z/. mon. 
cér. ii. 20 ff. pl. 6, L. de Ronchaud in Daremberg—Saglio Dzct. Ant. i. 315 fig. 370, 
Baumeister Dexkm. i. 102 fig. 108, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon pp. 63 no. 13, 
64f., 360 Atlas pl. 20, 12, M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 2839, K. Wernicke in 
Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 93, Reinach Rép. Vases i. 79, 4, W. Helbig Frihrer durch 
die éffentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in Rom* Leipzig 1912 i. 311 No. 497, 
Hoppin Red-fig. Vases i. 66 no. 51, supra i. 335). As to the further interpretation of the 
scene, opinions differ. According to T. Panofka, C. Lenormant, J. de Witte, L. de 
Ronchaud, Apollon is crossing the sea from Crete to Delphoi. J. Overbeck, M. Mayer, 
S. Reinach, W. Helbig, hold that he is on his way from the land of the Hyperboreoi to 
Delphoi, where his advent was celebrated in the spring. K. Wernicke speaks more 
cautiously of ‘der Meerfahrt des A. Delphinios.’ A. Baumeister thinks ‘dass hier das 
Orakel des Gottes als Kolonien griindend und aussendend gedacht wird.’ Is it over-rash 
to see in this striking picture an artist’s conception of the ecstasy or ‘travelling clairvoyance’ 
ofthe god? In any case an odd sequel to it is Artemid. omezvocr. 5. 21 Gd0f€ Tis Emi KUKAw 
tplrodos duamhet médaryos ueya: petiywv (Epuye B.) ddicnudrov ypadny éddw kai els vjcov 
KareduxdaOn* TO yap meptéxov nv avtov meplppTor, Kal éo.xds (oikos codd. Ald. J. G. Reiff 
corr.) 70 oxRMa TH YNTW. 

1 Fig. 145 is the interior design of a red-figured 2y//ix from Vulci, now at Berlin (Furt- 
wangler Vasensamml. Berlin ii. 719f. no. 2538), painted by an Attic master (? Aison: 
see Hoppin Red-fig. Vases i. 16 no. 2) c. 440 B.C. The scene is laid in the temple at 
Delphoi, which is suggested by the Doric column and entablature in the background. 
AITEY3, with Azmdtion, bay-wreath, and fillet, propping his left arm-pit on a staff, 
awaits the response of OEMI2, who sits on the tripod, wearing chztén, himation drawn 
up over her head, ear-ring, and necklace. In her right hand she holds a sprig of bay, in 
her left a A27é/e, which she is apparently using as a divining-glass (so first Miss P. B. Mudie 
Cooke in the Journ. Rom. Stud. 1913 iii. 169, cp. supra i. 128). F. E. Robbins ‘ The 
Lot Oracle at Delphi’ in Class. Philol. 1916 xi. 278—292 supposes that Themis is 
reading lots (Class. Quart. 1916 x. 235). See further E. Gerhard Das Orakel der Themis 
(Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Berlin vi) Berlin 1846 pp. 1—11 pl., zd. Azserl. Vasenb. iv. 
102—104 pl. 327f.=Reinach Rép. Vases ii. 162, O. Benndorf in the Wien. Vorlegebl. A 
pl. ry, 2 (after Gerhard), Furtwangler—Reichhold—Hauser Gr. Vasenmalerez iii. 110— 
113 pl. 140. My fig. 145 is after the last-named publication. I cannot, however, agree 
with Hauser that the female figure on the tripod is but a priestess (24. p. 110 ‘Sie wird 
hier Themis...genannt mit einem mythologisch nicht gerechtfertigten Namen.’): see 
Harrison Myth. Mon. Anc. Ath. p. ¢ fig. 19, ead. Themis p. 480f. fig. 142, who rightly 
remarks—‘ she is not the Pythia; the days of Aigeus are earlier than this ; she is Themis, 
who came after Ge and before Apollo.’ 

2 A red-figured mestor¢s from Basilicata, now at Naples (Heydemann Vasensammi. 
Neapel p. 155 f. no. 1984), shows on the one side Orestes pursued by two Furies, on the 
other Orestes in the presence of Apollon at Delphoi. Both paintings are of interest. In 
(a) the double row of striped pebbles may indicate the scene of murder (cp. Frazer Golden 
Bough*: The Scapegoat p. 15 ff.). The bared breast of the right-hand Fury recalls the 
last appeal of the desperate queen (Aisch. cho. 896 ff., Eur. ZZ. 1206 ff., Or. 526 ff., 839 ff., 
with C. Sittl Die Gebarden der Griechen und Rémer Leipzig 1890 p. 173). And the face 
seen in the uplifted mirror is that of Klytaimestra herself—a masterly device to express 


“SI 


The Pythia as Bride of Apollon 20 


(7) The Pythia as Bride of Apollon. 


At this point two questions may be raised. If Themis, whom 
the Fates once bore ‘up the dread stair’ to Zeus!, was really the 








Fig. 145. 


the haunting presence, and a reminder that the Erinys was originally none other than the 
angry ghost (Miss J. E. Harrison ‘Delphika’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1899 xix. 205 ff. 
and in her Proleg. Gk. Rel.” p. 213 ff.). In (6) Apollon is seated, with bay-branch 
and lyre, on the omfhalés: to the left we see Orestes, to the right Pylades, both in 
traveller’s attire, the former holding a sheathed sword and two spears, the latter a spear. 
Behind Orestes stands Elektra. Behind Pylades is the Pythéa, seated on the tripod with 
a fillet in her hands. The moment represented is doubtful. According to C. Boetticher, 
Orestes is receiving from Apollon the sword and the commission to slay his mother. 
Raoul-Rochette and most critics regard the scene as one of purification after the deed : 
e.g. J. Overbeck thinks that Orestes is about to touch his blood-stained blade with the 
bay-branch of Apollon. H. Heydemann would recognise here the concluding act of the 
whole drama—‘ die Schwertweihe nach volliger Genesung und Riickkehr aus der Krim.’ 
See further Raoul—Rochette Monumens inédits a antiquité figurée Paris 1831 p. 186 ff. 
pls. 36 and 37=my fig. 146, Inghirami Vas. fiz. iv. 115 f. pl. 385 f., Overbeck Gal/. her. 
Sildw. i. 706, 715 f. Atlas pl. 29, 2, 2%, 11, C. Boetticher in the Avch, Zezt. 1860 xviil. 
49 ff. pl. 138, 1=Reinach Rép. Vases i. 390, 2f. 1 Supra p. 37+ 


208 The Pythia as Bride of Apollon 


prototype of the Pythza, are we to infer that the Py¢héa was in some 
sense the bride of Apollon? It would seem so: at least the language 






j 







ee 
ee 




















bo ay 
a CR IDDM Siz 
MmDLWUNESBTAD 
SA Satna is BIW 


a 


SS 


SE 
=> 


@. 








Fig. 146. 


used by Origenes! and Ioannes Chrysostomos’, if not that used by 


1 Orig. c. Cels. 3. 25 bre dia Tod TvOiov croulov mepixabefouevy TH Kadoumevy mpophjride 
mvetua did Tov yuvatkelwy Urecépxerar TO wavTiKdy, 6’ Amo\NwY, TO Kabapdyv amo ynivou 
owmartos (P. Koetschau ad Joc. notes that 6 ’A7wéAXwyr is not to be altered into rod ’A7é)- 
Awvos with E. Bouhéreau, nor to be deleted with F. Guyet, but-to be regarded as in 
apposition [an alternative propounded by Bouhéreau]), 7. 3 tordpyrac roivuy epi ris 
IIvGias, dep doxe? Tov dd\\wy wavtelwy Naumpbrepov Tvyxdvew, bre Tepikabefouevn TO THs 
KaoraNlas orduuov ) Tod’ Amé\XNwvos mpopAris OéxeTae mrvedua did Tv yuvatkelwy Kd\TwY * 
ot mAnpwhetoa dropbeyyerat TA vouufoueva elvar ceuva Kal Bela wavredmara. K.T.A., 8. 46 7 
bev IlvOia iordpynrat (so edd. lordpnoev cod. A.) bre kal vobevbeioa Expynoé more. 

* Io. Chrys. hom. 29. 1 in epist. 7 ad Cor. (Ixi. 242 Migne) Néyerau rolvw airy 4 Ivbta 
yun Tis ovoa émixabjcbar Tw Tpirodt more Tod ’Amé\Nwvos, Siatpodoa Ta oKEAN* E10? oiiTw 


The Pyzhia as Bride of Apollon 209 


Strabon! before them, definitely implies that Apollon impregnated 
the Pythta as she sat on the tripod? and filled her with his own 
divinity*. Moreover, the marital relation of the god and his pro- 


mvetua movnpoy KaTwhev dvadidduevov Kal dua THY yerynTiKGy adTis diadvduevov poplwy 
mAnpodv Thy yuvaika THS wavias, Kal Ta’THY Tas Tplxas NVovcay Noo ExBaxxeverbal Te Kal 
dgpov éx Tod orduaros aduévat, kal ottws év mapowia yevouévny Ta Tis mavias PbéyyerBac 
pyeara. 

1 Strab. 419 gaol & eivae 7d wavretov dvtpov Kot\ov Kara BdOous (Bdbos cod. k. Ald.), 
ov pada evptotomov, avapéperOar & é€& a’rod mveiua évPovoractikdy, vrepKetcbar dé Tov 
oroulov Tplroda bWnrdv, ep bv rHv IIvOlay avaBalyovoar, Sexouévyny (cp. Orig. c. Cels. 7. 3 
supra p. 208 n. 1) 7d rrvedua, drodectifew Euperpa Te Kai duerpa’ évrelvery dé Kai Taira els 
pérpov mounrds Tivas UroupyobvTas Tw iepy. 

2 If Apollon was évé\utos, his priestess was évo\uls: cp. Soph. frag. 942 Nauck?, 1044 
Jebb évdduuos ap. et. mag. p. 344, 37 ff. evonuls: qv Te -yévos udvrewy (F. G. Sturz proposed 
évo\uls—pavTedyv, or évd\uos or évo\wos—pmdvTewy) obTw KaNovmevoy Oia TO Ev Sum KoL- 
unOjvac [yivecOar] (yivecOa om. M. F. G. Sturz cj. dua 7d robs év Aww KorunOévras 
mavrixods yiverOar)* Amor dé AéyovTae of Tpirodes TOU ’Amd\NwVOS. GOev Kal rapoiula ‘‘ év 
bAuw edvdow” avTi Tod wavTiKOs <éyévov (ins. F. Sylburg)>. 6 6€ Lopokdijs ‘‘ évddmeos”’ 
(R. F. P. Brunck, perhaps rightly, placed avri rod pmavrixds after 6 d€ Lopoxdrjs 
**éyd\uuos.” The e¢. ger. as cited by E. Miller A/élanges de littérature grecqgue Paris 1868 
p- 114 has 6 6€ Looks ’Evodply rov Amb\Nwva Eyer), Zenob. 3. 63 &v dAuw eivdow" ot 
mev “O\wov udvTw gpacty’ of dé rods Ev b\uw KouunOévTas pavTiKods ylvecOat, bOev (so et. 
mag. loc. cit. ws codd.) kai mapomutav yevérOar. Kal Apioroparns 6 ypaumarixds pnow ws ot 
év b\uw Kounbévtes pavtixol* Kal Tods Tpirodas Tod ’Amé\Nwvos SAmous Kade’oOa, Kal 
*Amré\Nwv bd Dodoxdéovs ‘‘évoduos,” Eustath. 27 77, p. 836, 44 ff. mepi oO rovovTou b\uou 
Nbyos HY ws of KoLMmmevor év adT@ mavTikol eylvovTo. Ilavoavias ovv pyolv mapomaKds ‘‘év 
dAuw exouuijow,” jyouv pavtiKos éyévou, schol. //. 11. 147 (published by L. C. Valckenaer 
Animadversionum ad Ammonium grammaticum librt tres Lugduni Batavorum 1739 
p- 184) 6@ev Kal oi wadatol rods Eri Te TEepatoNoyovvTas Epackov Em’ GAmov KomacOat. d10 Kal 
Tlavoavias él rwa ypapny éheye rap’ S\uov brvawtrew* Kal els mapomulay 7 mpdyma e&émrece 
mpos Ta pavTika apop&yras, Plout. prov. Alex. 2. 14 év Odum éxouunOnv: ol év Shum 
Kounbévres émifecactixwrarol elow, Hesych. év 6\um etvdow (€v vdow cod. corr. H. 
Junius) * of perv “ONwov udvrw dacty* of dé rods év SAuw KoiwnOévTas partiKods yiverOat, 
Souid. s.v. év O\uw exouunOn* of pev "ONuov daci pwavrelor, oi 5é rods év bAuw KoyunOévTas 
pavrixods yiverOar* Ore Kal ol rplrodes Tod ’Amé\AwvOs b\mwor KaNodvyTar=Favorin. lex. 
p- 659, 13 ff. 

3 In keeping with her character as bride of Apollon is the fact that the Pythfa was 
always a virgin. At first a young woman was chosen, but after the outrage of Echekrates 
the Thessalian a woman over fifty years of age dressed as a virgin. See Eur. Jom 1324 f. 
IQ. xaip’, & pity mor pirep, od Texodcd ep. | IIT. add’ ody ANeyduedd Y (so P. Elmsley for 
codd. Neyéuecd’. C. Badham cj. édeydued’)* 7 paris 5’ of jor muxpd, Diod. 16. 26 
Gecmimdety dé 7d apxatov Néyerat mapbévous did TE TO THs Picews adudpPopov Kal Td Tis 
’Apréucdos duoyevés* Tatiras yap evlerely mpos TO Type TA ambppnTa TaY xpnoumdouMerwY 
(xpnomodoroumevwy codd. F. L.). év d€ Tots vewrépors xpdvas paclv Exexpadrny ('Exexparn 
cod. T. et schol. Aristoph. P/out. g in ed. Ald.) rov Oerraddv tapayevopuevoy eis 7d 
XpnoTHpLov Kal Peacdmevoyv Thy xXpnomodoyolvcay tapbévov éepacOAvar dua TO KaNAOS adTHs Kal 
cuwapracavTa Bidoagbar* rovs dé Aeddods dia 7d yevyevnucvoy mddos els TO Notrdy vomobe- 
THoaL unkére wapHévoy XpynaTnpidgew, ad\\a yuvaika mpecBurépayv mevTHKovra érav xpnoMo- 
Aoyetv* Koouetobar 5 abrhvy mapGeviky oKevy Kabdmep dTouvhuare (brduvnud Te schol. 
Aristoph. doc, cit.) ris madatds mpopyriios (sic codd. F.L. et schol. Aristoph. Joc. cit. 
mpopnteias cett.), Plout. de def. or. 51 TovTwy évexa Kal cuvovalas ayvov TO cOua Kal Tov 
Biov bdws averiuikrovy ddNodamais kal dOcKrov ouiNias (sic codd. V. Barb. Ambr. é6uuAlats 
kal dOuxrov cett.) puddrrovat (sic codd. V!. Barb. Ambr. F. guAarrovens cett.) rs Ivdlas 


cone 14 


210 The Pyzhia and the 


phetic priestess at Delphoi is strongly supported by later beliefs 
with regard to Python? and by the analogous cult at Patara, where 
so long as Apollon tarried in the town his prophetess was shut up 
with him in the temple by night”. 


(ep) The Pythia and the Caldron of Apotheosis. 


But, again, if the Py¢hva, a mere mortal, is thus raised to the 
rank of a goddess, must she not, either in grim earnest or in mock 
show, endure the ritual of apotheosis? Now one form of this ritual 
consisted in the real or simulated boiling of the person concerned. 
A mortal plunged in the seething caldron thereby lost his mortality. 
Old age dropped away from him: perennial youth remained. He 
died the death of a man: he lived the life of a god. This strange 
belief points backwards—it may be—to a time when the dead, or 
even the aged, were dismembered and boiled for the readier removal 
of the flesh from their bones and the consequent liberation of their 
souls*. In any case it underlies and explains a variety of Greek 


(sic codd. V1. Barb. Ambr. Hv@cddos cett.), Tert. ad wxor. 1.6 Achaeae Iunoni apud 
Aegium oppidum virgo sortitur, et quae Delphis insaniunt nubere nesciunt, zd. de 
monogam. 17 sunt et quae de tota continentia iudicent nos, virgines Vestae et Iunonis 
Achaicae et Dianae Scythicae et Apollinis Pythii, Hieron. ef7st. 123. 8 (xxii. 1051 
Migne) ut omittam virgines Vestae et Apollinis Iunonisque Achivae (Erasmus cj. Avgive, 
alii mallent Achaice) et Dianae et Minervae, quae perpetua sacerdotii virginitate mar- 
cescunt. Similarly the priestess, who was also the prophetess, of Apollon Detradiétes at 
Corinth is described as avdpos evv7js cipyouévn (Paus. 2. 24. 1). 

Ceremonial continence may doubtless be due to more causes than one. E. Fehrle Die 
kultische Keuschhett im Altertum Giessen 1910 traces it back to two main sources: (a) 
Whoever enjoys the love of a deity, must forgo the love of mortals ; (4) Sexual inter- 
course defiles, and religious defilement implies the presence of evil spirits. In any given 
case either or both of these causes may be operant. But that the former atleast was a vera 
causa to the worshippers of Apollon seems certain—witness e.g. the myth of Koronis. 

1 Souid. s.v. Tlv@wvos* datmoviov wavtixod. ‘‘ rds Te mvevmare 1v@wvos évOovo.wdoas Kal 
gavraciay kujcews mapexouevas TH TOU Satmoviov mepipopa Hélov To éadbuevov mpoaryopedcat * 
oi 6é T&y damdvwv Kadroxo Epackor TH vikny Mydos rapécecOa,” with G. Bernhardy ad Joc. 

2 Hat. 1. 182 dudédrepar 6€ atta (sc. the wife of Zeus Bélos supra p. 128 n. 4 and the 
wife of Zeus Thebaiets supra i. 348 n. 1) NéyovTat avdpGv ovdauav és ouAlnv Porray* cat 
kardmep év Ilardpowoe rijs Avkins 7) mpopavtis T00 Oeod, éredy yévnTrat—od yap wy alei éore 
Xpnarnpiov avrbO. (Serv. 7 Verg. Aen. 4. 143 states that Apollon was at Patara during 
the six winter months, at Delos during the six summer months)—ézreay 6€ yé&nra, TéTe 
ay ovykarakAntlerat Tas vUKTas tow ev TH VN. 

3 See the facts collected by Frazer Golden Bough®: Taboo p. 372 n. 5, 20.3: The 
Dying God p. 96, id. Belief in Immortality i. 165 ff. My suggestion has been to some 
extent anticipated by W. Mannhardt Germanische Mythen Berlin 1858 p. 72 n.5: 
‘Hangt mit dieser Anschauung zusammen, dass man im zwolften und dreizehnten Jahr- 
hundert Leichname aufschnitt, das Fleisch mit Wein oder Wasser absott und abléste und 
abgesondert von den gesammelten Knochen begrub? Pabst Bonifaz VIII. untersagte 
diese Sitte.’ Mannhardt adds detailed proof of this singular custom, noting that it was 
chiefly observed when a man died abroad and his friends or relatives wished his bones to 
be buried at home. 


Caldron of Apotheosis Zit 


_ rites, myths, and imaginings—the rites of Leukothea’, the myths of 
Pelias? (fig. 147), Aison* (fig. 148), Iason‘ (pl. xiv), Pelops? (fig. 149), 


1 Supra i. 419 n. 10, 674f. 

2 Supra i. 245, 419, 679. A relief of Pentelic marble, found at Rome in 1814 and 
now in the Lateran Museum (O. Benndorf—R. Schéne Die antiken Bildwerke des 
lateranensischen Museums Leipzig 1867 p. 61 ff. no. 92, W. Helbig Fiihrer durch die 
Offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in Rom*® Leipzig 1913 ii. 7f. no 1154, 
Friederichs—Wolters Gipsabgiisse p. 400 ff. no. 1200, Brunn—Bruckmann Denkm. der 
gr. und rim, Sculpt. pl. 341 b (=my fig. 147), Reinach Xép. Reliefs iii. 277 no. 1), shows 
the preparations for the boiling of Pelias. On the left in foreign garb stands Medeia 
éWavdpa (Anth. Pal. 15. 26. 5 (Dosiadas)), with a basket or box of magic herbs in her 
hands (cp. swfra i. 721 pl. xli); she lifts the lid to throw its contents into the caldron, 
which the younger sister is just placing in position before her. On the right stands the 
elder sister, irresolute, her knife ready drawn from its sheath, but her head sunk pensively 
on her hand (H. Brunn in the Svtzungsber. d. kats. bayr. Akad. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 
1881 ii. g5ff., followed by A. Milchhoefer Die Lefrecung des Prometheus (Winckel- 
mannsfest- Progr. Berlin xiii) Berlin 1882 p. 37 f., took this figure for Medeia, and Medeia 
for one of the Peliades: but see O. Benndorf—R. Schone of. czt. p. 63). 

A replica, also of Pentelic marble, at Berlin (Azt. Skulpt. Berlin p. 375 f. no. 925 
fig., R. Kekule von Stradonitz Die griechische Skulptur® Berlin 1907 p. 174 ff. fig.) has 
the same subject cleaned up and worked over by a Renaissance-artist, who has substituted 
a sprig of olive for the knife and has chiselled away the tell-tale sheath. The relation of 
the Berlin to the Lateran relief gave rise to a long controversy (A. Conze ‘ Das Berliner 
Medearelief’ in Azstortsche und philologische Aufsatze Ernst Curtius...gewidmet Berlin 
1884 pp. 97—104 pl. 2, O. Kern ‘Zu den beiden Peliadenreliefs’ in the Jahrb. d. kais. 
deutsch. arch. Inst. 1888 iii. 683—72, A. Michaelis ‘Nochmals die Peliadenreliefs’ 74. 1888 
iii. 225-229, E. Loewy ‘Un rilievo del Museo Lateranense e le sue pretese repliche’ in 
the Bull. Comm. Arch. Comun. di Roma 1897 pp. 42—50 pl. 3f., R. Kekule von 
Stradonitz ‘ Uber das Peliadenrelief in den Kéniglichen Museen zu Berlin’ in the Jah7é. 
d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1897 xii. g6—100), which is summarised by H. Lechat in the 
Rev. Et. Gr. 1897 x. 351 f. and by H. N. Fowler in the Am. Journ. Arch. 1897 i. 402 f. 

A third relief, known only from a drawing of s. xvii in the dal Pozzo collection (ii. 28 
no. 34) at Windsor Castle and from a sketch in bistre and white made in the first half of 
s§. xviii and formerly owned by Cardinal Albani (both published by O. Kern Zoc. cit. 1888 
iii. 68 fig. 1, 70 fig. 2), gave Medeia a chztén with close-fitting sleeves’ down. to the wrist 
and the elder sister a sheath of somewhat different shape (A. Michaelis /oc. cz¢. 1888 
il. 225). 

These copies presuppose as their common archetype an Attic relief of the late fifth or 
the early fourth century (the cozffure of the central figure and the pathos of the whole 
scene point rather to the latter date). They have moreover close stylistic affinity with two 
further reliefs—on the one hand that of Hermes, Eurydike, and Orpheus (the best copy is 
at Naples: see Brunn—Bruckmann of. ct. pl. 341a, L. Mariani in the Guida del Mus. 
Napoli p. 45 ff. no. 138 fig., J. Pickard ‘The Orpheus Relief’ in the Am. Journ. Arch. 
1898 ii. 169—172), on the other that of Herakles, Peirithoos, and Theseus (the only com- 
plete copy is in the Museo Torlonia at Rome: see W. Helbig of. cit.’ ii. 447 f. no. 1908, 
zd. ‘La composizione d’un rilievo Torlonia completata da un frammento conservato nel 
Museo di Berlino’ in the Mon. d. Linc. 1892 i. 673—686 pl. 1, 2, Friederichs—Wolters 
op. cit. p. 402f. no. 1201, A. Baumeister in his Denkm. iii. 1795 f. fig. 1880, Reinach 
Rép. Reliefs iii. 340 no. 4, P. Weizsicker in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 1789 f. with fig. 15). 
In view of the fact that all three reliefs are approximately the same in size and shape it 
has been conjectured that they were originally parts of a connected whole—votive slabs 
commemorating successful dramas, perhaps a trilogy (E. Reisch Griechische Wethgeschenke 
(Abhandlungen des archdologisch-epigraphischen Seminares der Universitat Wien viii) 


I4—2 


282 The Pyzhia and the 


Arkas®, Melikertes’, Peleus’ sons’, Dionysos’ attendants®, and the 
Aristophanic conception of Demos”. Nay more, it survives to this 
hour in the folk-tales of Sicily and Walachia", Germany and Scan- 
dinavia, Poland and Finland™. I am therefore inclined to conjecture 


Wien 1890 p. 130 ff., pursuing a hint of P. Wolters 74. p. 130 n. 1), or even, since some 
copies at least are appreciably narrower above than below, the three sides of a triangular 
base on which, as on the Chigi base (szpva p. 199 n. 2 pl. xii), stood a choragic tripod 
(L. Mariani Joc. cit. p. 40f., H. Bulle Der schoene Mensch® Muenchen—Leipzig 1912 
p- 587). If so, the significance of the whole design is not hard to guess. Pelias was the 
subject of an attempted, but unsuccessful, resurrection. So was Eurydike. So was 
Peirithoos. Nothing could be more appropriate than the representing of these myths on 
the base of a tripod-/ébes, the very caldron of apotheosis. 

Other monuments of the Pelias-story are noted by K. Seeliger in Roscher Lex. AZyth. 
ii. 2505 f., O. Hofer 2d. ili. 1846 f. To the vases there given must be added a red-figured 
hydrta of early fine style (c. 465 B.C.), formerly in the Hamilton collection (Tischbein 
Hamilton Vases i. 60 ff. pl. 7), which on the dispersal of the Deepdene treasures (Hoge 
Sale Catalogue 1917 p. 16 no. 81 wrongly described) was acquired by the Fitzwilliam 
Museum, Cambridge. This magnificent vase (height 114 ins.) has been attributed by 
Mr J. D. Beazley to the hand of ‘the Villa Giulia painter’ (Hoppin Red-fig. Vases ii. 
464 ff.) and is in faultless condition. It represents the three Peliades about to carry out 
the instructions of Medeia, though Medeia herself is absent. On the left the eldest sister, 
in Ionic chitén and himdtion tucked round her waist, grips a short sword in one hand and 
raises the other with a gesture of amazement; she is aghast, but resolved. The second 
sister, in a Doric pép/os girt over its long aféptygma, bears high a phidle containing the 
fateful decoction, but betrays her inward misgivings by the nervous pressure of her hand 
against her cheek. On the right the third and youngest, in a Doric péflos with short 
apéptygma and kélpos, turns to flee from the spot in a horror of expostulation. Her 
chignon in profile, despite the all but full-face features, is a lingering trace of earlier 
style. Pl. xiii is from a photograph taken for me by Mr W. H. Hayles. 

3 Nostot frag. 6 Kinkel af. schol. Eur. JZed. argum. 1 and schol. Aristoph. eg. 1321, 
Ov. met. 7. 159 ff. O. Jahn Archdologische Bettrage Berlin 1847 p. 157 n. 155 (following 
the Duc de Luynes in Vowv. Ann. 1839 il. 251) sees on a late black-figured /#ky¢hos now 
at Leyden (Gerhard Auserl. Vasend. i pl. 69—70, 5 (=my fig. 148) and 6, Reinach Xé. 
Vases ii. 42, 6 and 7) ‘die Darstellung des Verjiingungsprocesses..., welchen Medeia mit 
Jason oder Aison vornahm.’ K. Wernicke in the /ahrd. d. kats. deutsch. arch. /nst. 
1889 iv Arch. Anz. p. 149 and in Pauly—Wissowa Rea/-Lnc. i. 1087 decides for Aison. 

+ Simonid. frag. 204 Bergk*+ and Pherekyd. frag. 74 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 89 Miiller) ap. 
schol. Eur. 4Zed. argum. 1 and schol. Aristoph. eg. 1321. This version of the myth is 
illustrated by a red-figured Aydrza from Vulci now in the British Museum (Srt. JZus. 
Cat. Vases iii. 148 f. no. E 163. My pl. xiv is from a photograph by Mr R. B. Fleming); 
for we need not with H. Heydemann Jason in Kolchis (Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Halle 


1886) p. 19 n. 48 regard the inscription IASON asa mistake for AISON. 

5 Supra i. 419 n. 10,679. A mirror at Paris (Gerhard Etr. Spiegel iv. 101 ff. pl. 352, 
1 (=my fig. 149), Babelon—Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. Nat. p. 537 ff. no. 1329) is 
best explained as representing Pelops, who emerges from the caldron in the presence of 
Tantalos, Ganymedes (cp. Mnaseas frag. 30 (f’ ag. hzst. Gr. ili. 154 Miiller) af. schol. 
fl. 20. 234, Herodian. 1. 11. 2, Aug. de civ. Dei 18. 13, Io. Malal. chron. 4 p. 80f. 
Dindorf, Souid. s.v. "IXcov, Kedren. hist. comp. 1208 f. (i. 211 Bekker)), Klotho, and 
Demeter. The dog is probably the golden hound of Tantalos (supra i. 720 n. 4). 

6 Infra p. 228 n. 5. 7 Supra i. 674, 674 n. 4, 679. 8 Supra i. 419 N. 10. 

9 Supra i. 785. 10 Supra i. 785. Supra i. 746. 

2 W. Mannhardt Germanische Mythen Berlin 1858 pp. 64—75, O. Dahnhardt Wazur- 


Plate XIll 


ein 





ffydria in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge: the Peliades about to carry 
out the instructions of Medeia. 
See page 212 2. Oo. 





Plate XIV 





fydria from Vulci, now in the British Museum: Medeia renews 


the youth of Iason. 
See page 212 . 4. 





Caldron of Apotheosis on i 


that the curious custom of the Pythza sitting on the Delphic tripod 
finds its ultimate explanation in the caldron of apotheosis. 





sagen Leipzig and Berlin 19091. 85 f., 154, Anmerkungen 2u den Kinder- u. Hausmarchen 
der Briider Grimm neu bearbeitet von J. Bolte und G. Polivka Leipzig 1913 i. 422 f. 

It should be observed that these tales are often concerned with the resurrection of 
animals. The story of Thor’s goats (Gylfaginning 44, translated by K. Simrock Dze 
Edda’ Stuttgart 1878 p. 277f. Parallels collected by J. W. Wolf Bettrage zur deutschen 
Mythologie Gottingen—Leipzig 1852 i. 88—go ‘Die wiederbelebten boécke,’ zd. in his 
Zeitschrift fiir deutsche Mythologie und Sittenkunde Gottingen 1853 i. 7of., R. Kohler in 
T. Benfey’s Orient und Occident Gottingen 1864 ii. 680, K. Simrock Handbuch der 
Deutschen Mythologie Bonn 1878 p. 239 ff. ‘Wiederbelebung der Bécke,’ J. Grimm 
Teutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 184n. 1, 26. 1883 ili. 995. 
R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 p. 285 is right in compar- 


214 The Pythta and the 


Direct proof is wanting. But the following facts deserve to be 
weighed. Dodona, as well as Delphoi, had an oracular caldron’, 





Fig. 148. 


A queer tale is told about it by Herakleides Pontikos (¢. 390- 
c. 310 B.C.), who is known to have written a treatise On Oracles*: 


‘When the Thebans came to consult the oracle about a war, the prophetess 
at Dodona made answer that they would be victorious, if they had committed 
impiety. Hereupon one of the sacred envoys caught up Myrtila the prophetess, 
and cast her into a caldron of hot water that was set there,’ 


ing the boar Szhrimnir (Grzmnismadl 22, translated by O. Bray The Elder or Poetic 
Edda London 1908 p. 11; Gylfaginning 38, translated by K. Simrock of. czt. p. 273), 
but quite wrong in his explanation of the otf) can be capped—as my daughter points 
out to me—by ‘The Three Cows’ (J. Jacobs More English Fairy Tales London 1894 
pp. 82—84, 228) and an incident in ‘Rushen Coatie’ (éd. 76. pp. 150—155, 233—237)- 
See also ‘The Sharp Grey Sheep’ (J. F. Campbell Popular Tales of the West Highlands 
Edinburgh 1860 ii. 286—292 no. 43 English translation and Gaelic text). The same trait 
reappears in sundry miracles ascribed to the saints (e.g. Jacobus de Voragine Legenda 
Aurea cap. 107 p. 450 Graesse® St Germanus and the calf, S. Baring-Gould Zhe Lives of 
the Saints Edinburgh 1914 xii. 653 St Abban and the calf, J. W. Wolf in his Zestschrzft 
fiir deutsche. Mythologie und Sittenkunde Gottingen 1853 1. 213 St Mochua and the 
stags; W. J. A. von Tettau—J. D. H. Temme Dre Volkssagen Ostpreussens, Litthauens 
und Westpreussens Berlin 1837 p- 33 St Adalbert’s finger). 

1 Clem. Al. frotr. 2. 11. 1 p. 10, 20 ff. Stahlin ddura rolvuy dea wh modvmpayyuovetre 
unde Bapddpwr orduata reparetas éumrea 7 AEBnTa Oeompwriov 7 Tplroda Kippatov 7 
Awdwvratov xadketov' k.T.., a passage quoted by Euseb. pracp. ev. 2. 3. 1 totidem verbts 
and paraphrased by Theodoret. Graec. affect. cur. 10. 3 p. 243, 3 ff. Raeder...cal ryv 
Kaoranlas mnynv kat TO Kodopaiviov petOpov kal rHy iepay Spby cat To Awbwvaiov yadketov 
kat Tov Keppatov rpiroda kat Tov Oeompwriov AéByra, x.7.A. On caldrons and tripods at 
Dodona see further the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1902 xxii. 5 ff. 

2 Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 197 Miller, Daebritz in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Euc. viii. 481f. 

3 Zenob. 2. 84 Bowrots wavrevoao’ attrn Katapatixyn éotw. ‘Hpakdgeléns yap not, 
pavrevouevors Tors OnBalous wept modéuou amekplvato n mpopytis 7 év Awdavy vikny avrois 
dceBnoacw écecOa. els 6é TSv Oewpav aprdcas Mupritay rHv rpoparw évéBadev els Oepuod 
mapakelwevov A€Bnra. Got 5€ Paci, d7t OnBalors worenovor BouBos pdvtis melous py 
viknoew, el mpodtoaev Tv Tryeudvwv eva. ol dé amoxrelvayTes Tov BouBov évixnoav. Plout. 
prov. Alex. t.9 repeats both explanations, but reads BéuBpos and BéouBpor. 


Caldron of Apotheosis 215 


Euripides had alluded to the story a century before in his Evechtheus; 
and either he or some later author gave it a sentimental turn by 





1” 


Fig. 149. 


making the priestess fall in love with one of the envoys. The same 


1 Appendix proverbiorum Bodletana, Vaticana, Coishiniana 3. 97 ulacua dpvds* map’ Hipi- 
mldn ev’ Epex et (Eur. frag. 368 Nauck?) aivitréuevov 76 OnBalwy rapavdunua els.7d év Awddvy 
pavretov, ad ov kal mapouia Bowrots wavrevoas. joéBnoav yap els rhv i€peray éuBaddrres 
avrhy els Tov év Awiavy NEBynTa FéovTa, épwrikGs SiareOeioay eis Eva TOV Oewpay (so A. Schott 
for codd. @edv). E. L. von Leutsch supposed a /acuna before joéBnoay x.7-d.; but this is 
unnecessary. The same source was utilised by Souid. s.v. Mulas ddxpvov: dia Thy OnBaiwy 
mapavoulay eis TO ev Awdwvyn pavretov: ad’ ov elpnra kal 70 mapa (epi B.) Bowrots wav- 
revoato (uavTevcas V.). joéBnoav yap Kal ovr els Thy lépeav, éuBaddvres adrhy els Tov ev 
Awiwvy AEBnTa, EpwrikGs diarePetoav els Eva TGv Gewpav. Here two points call for com- 
ment: (az) The saying Mulas ddxpvoy is not really explained by the story related ; (4) The 
name Muvia attached to a priestess at Dodona suggests comparison with the uéduoa of 
Delphoi (szpra i. 443f.). It forms a good pendant to BéuBos (supra p. 214 n. 3), can be 
readily connected with Zeus (supra i. 532), and may well have been altered into Muprina. 


216 The Pythéa and the 


story was told at greater length and with other variations by 
Ephoros the historian (¢. 350 B.C.), whose account is preserved to us 
in primis by Strabon?: 


‘Ephoros states that the Thracians after making a treaty with the Boeotians 
attacked them one night, when their camp was off its guard in the enjoyment of 
peace. The Boeotians flung them back, and at once reproached them for 
breaking the treaty. “No,” said the Thracians, “we agreed to a truce by day ; 
we attacked you by night.” Hence the common proverb—“a Thracian shuffle”.” 
While the war was still being waged, the Pelasgians and the Boeotians too went 
to consult the oracle. He cannot tell, he says, what answer was given to the 
Pelasgians ; but the prophetess replied to the Boeotians that they would prosper, 
if they committed impiety. The sacred envoys, suspecting the prophetess of 
showing favour to the Pelasgians in her reply on account of their kinship (for the 
sanctuary had originally been Pelasgian), caught up the woman and cast her on 
to a pyre. They thought that, whether she had done amiss or not, in either case 
their action was justified: if she had uttered a lying oracle, she was duly 
punished ; if she had done no wrong, they had but carried out her bidding. Those 
in charge of the sanctuary did not like to put the perpetrators to death, in a 
sanctuary too, without a formal judgment, so brought them to trial and sum- 
moned them ‘before the priestesses, that is the prophetesses, three in number to 
begin with and now reduced to two. The Boeotians protested that nowhere was 
it customary for women to act as judges. An equal number of men was therefore 
chosen. The men acquitted; the women condemned. As the votes were equal, 
those for acquittal prevailed. Ever since then at Dodona oracles have been de- 
livered to the Boeotians, and to the Boeotians only, by men*. The prophetesses, 
however, put a different interpretation upon the oracle, to wit, that the god en- 
joined upon the Boeotians to steal the tripods in Boiotia and send one year by 
year to Dodona. And this in point of fact they do. They always take down by 
night one of their dedicated tripods, wrap it in cloaks, and have a clandestine 
tripod-carrying to Dodona‘*’ 


1 Ephoros frag. 30 (Frag. hist. Gr. 1. 241 f. Miller) ap. Strab. 4o1 f. 

2 Opaxla mapevpeots, cp. Zenob. 4. 37, append. prov. 3. 21, Souid. s.v. Opaxta 
mapevpeots, Polyain. 7. 43. 

3 Quoted by Eustath. 27 Od. p. 1760, 4 f. 

4 Cp. Prokl. chrestom. (after Ephoros?) ag. Phot. éib/. p. 321 b 32 ff. Bekker 76 dé 
Tpirodnpopixdyv wédos (Poll. 4. 53 Tprrodnpopixd) Tpirodos mponyouuévou mapa Tots Bowrots 
qoero. eoxe 6€ kal Toro alrlav ro.avTnv. Iedacyav Twes Ildvaxrov THs Bowwrias émdpbovur, 
OnBaior 6€ juvvov kal mwéupavtes eis Awddvnv epi THs TOD moN€uou vikns expGvTo. xXpnomos 
dé Tots OnBalos e&érecev ws, ei uéyioroyv acéBnua doeBHaovor, vixnoovow. edokev ovv avrots 
aoeBnudtwy elvar wéyioTov To Ti XpnoUwonoacay avTrois TOY Xpnomov aveheiv: Kal aveidov. 
ai 6€ mepi TO Téwevos cuvieperar Sixyny AaBety amwyHrovy Tod pébvov Tos OnBalovs. OnBator de 
ovx émirpérovot yuvatel wdvars Thy Tepl abrov dikny: Kow7s O€ Kpioews avdp&y Kal yuvatKkav 
yevyernuérns,. kat Tov dvipav evKas abrots éereveyKdvTwy Whpous, arépuvyov of OnBator. 
VaTepoy 6 EmvyvdvTes atTois TO Urd TOO XpnoMod mpooTaccbuevoy, BacTdcayTes TOY KATA THY 
Bowrlay iepov rpimddwv eva, kal kataxadtWarTes ws lepdcvro, avéreupay els Awdwvny. 
evrpaynoavres dé €& éxelvov Tod Nowrod Thy mpaéw éopryy érolovv. This tripod-carrying did 
not, like that of the Thebans to their Zsménion (Pind. Pyth. 11. 7 f. xpvoéwy és dburov 
Tpimddwv | Oncavpdy with schol. vet. ad loc. of yap OnBayeveis éerpimodopopovy éxeice), 

‘merely aim at increasing the property and vestige of the god; nor did it, like that of the 
Athenians from Delphoi (L. Couve in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1894 xviii. 87 ff. no. g, go ff. 
no. 10, Dittenberger Sy//. zmscr. Gr.” no. 665 and no. 718, Michel Recueil a Inscr. gr. 


Caldron of Apotheosis Pye. 


Ephoros, in the interests of probability, eliminates the dzzarre 
‘caldron of hot water’ and tacitly substitutes a commonplace ‘pyre,’ 
thereby spoiling the end of his story, which suggests rather that the 
sacred tripods made amends for a sacred caldron. I surmise that the 
impiety of boiling the priestess at Dodona in a caldron of hot water, 
an impiety authorised or at least instigated by the oracle itself, 
implies a long-standing ritual, to which recourse might be had in 
dark and desperate times. 

At Delphoi, it is true, the priestess was not boiled in a caldron. 
But we have to ask ourselves: What form would be taken by a 
simulated boiling? The Orphic votary in like circumstances pro- 
nounced the words 


‘T have fallen as a kid into milk,’ 


and in all probability stepped into an actual caldron for a make- 
believe seething’. At Delphoi a she-goat, over which cold water 
had first been poured, was sacrificed®, and the Py¢hza then took her 


no. 1285 and no. 266, Foudlles de Delphes iii. 2 nos. 32 f.), serve as a means of transport- 
ing sacred fire; still less was it, like that of Ptolemy ii Philadelphos (Athen. 198, D, 
199 D, F, 202 B, C), a case of exaggerated pomp. Rather we may suppose that this was 
an expiation in kind. A sacred /édes (? tripod) had been defiled by an impious act: sacred 
tripods must be sent year by year to replace it. Why they had to be stolen, and wrapped 
in cloaks, we are not told. In Scotland at Hallowe’en divination was practised by. means 
of stolen kail: ‘It was necessary that the plants should be stolen without the knowledge 
or consent of their owner; otherwise they were quite useless for the purpose of divina- 
tion’ (Frazer Golden Bough*: Balder the Beautiful i. 234f.). Possibly the same notion 
played some part in Herakles’ theft of the Delphic tripod. The wrapping in cloaks was 
probably prophylactic (cp. e.g. supra i. 58, 107 n. 4, 523, alzd.). 

1 Supra i. 676 f. : 

2 Diod. 16. 26 Aéyerat...7d madarov alyas ebpety TO wayTeiov: ov xapw algi uadiora 
xXpnornpidfovrar wéxpe Tod viv of AeAgol, Plout. de def. or. 49 Tivy F alya duehéyxew TO 
puxpov Udwp: ov yap elvac Yuxns Kara piow éxovons Td Mpds Thy KaTdoTEcw arabes Kal 
axiynrov. A decree of the Delphians, passed in honour of Nikomedes iii of Bithynia and 
Laodike (g2—9g1 B.Cc.), mentions goats among the flocks and herds of the god (L. Couve 
in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1894 xviii. 254 ff. no. 1409, 15 f., H. Pomtow in Phzlologus 1895 
liv. 356 ff., J. Baunack in Collitz—Bechtel G7. Dial.-Znschr. ii. 880 ff. no. 2738, 16 f. Kai 
mort Tas atyas Tas lep[as "Apyeddwx or Révwve Ilec]|o.Péou Mévwva, A@por, ‘Pddwva, ‘Imriav, 
Avxéay. And the rule of the Labyadai speaks of a she-goat offered to Bouzyge daughter 
of Phanotos (Dittenberger Sy//. zscr. Gr.” no. 438d 200, Michel Recueil d’Iuscr. gr. 
no. 995 D 35, J. von Prott and L. Ziehen Leges Graecorum sacrae ii no. 74D 35 xXiuarpav). 
Goats played a considerable part at Delphoi. The oracle was first discovered by a goat- 
herd (cp. Paus. ro. 5. 7 and swpra p. 189 n. 8), who noticed that his goats on approaching 
a certain chasm and looking into it skipped about and bleated in an unusual manner: 
following their example, he too was similarly affected and began to foretell future events 
(Diod. 16. 26). When, according to one account, Python had been wounded and was 
trying to escape along the Sacred Way, Apollon pursued after him and karé\aBe...avrov 
€k TOO Tpavwaros dpre TeOvnKiTa, KeKnOeuuevoy Hrd Tod mardos @ dvoua Hy ALE, ws Néyouse 
(Plout. guaestt. Gr. 12: see further Folk-Lore 1904 xv. 402 ff.). Hesych. dugadds Alyds: 
tnreirac r&s Thy IvOc dupaddv Alyaiov. twés dé mapa 7d THs Alyalwy yys was emended 
by Salmasius to éugands Alyaios: (yreirar Os Ti IlvOw elpnker dupadov Alyaiov. twes 


218 Dionysos and the 


seat in or on the caldron. I infer that the Pythéa, like the Orphist, 
pretended to be boiled. | 


(c) Dionysos and the Caldron of Apotheosis. 


The inference here drawn with regard to the Pythta may seem 
rash, or even grotesque; but the Orphic ritual cannot be separated 
from the Orphic myth, which—if I am not mistaken—came to 
locate the caldron of apotheosis at Delphoi and to identify it with 
the mantic tripod. 

Clement of Alexandreia, an excellent authority in such matters, 
after quoting Orpheus for the attack of the Titans upon the infant 
Dionysos, continues: 


‘The Titans, who had torn him in pieces, set a certain caldron upon a tripod, 
and dropping the limbs of Dionysos into it began by boiling them. After that, 
they pierced them with spits and ‘“‘held them over Hephaistos.” Zeus then made 
his appearance (being a god, he presumably had soon got a whiff of the roast 
flesh—your gods admit that they get that ‘‘as their guerdon”), struck the Titans 
with a thunderbolt, and entrusted the limbs of Dionysos to his son Apollon for 
burial. Apollon, obedient to the commands of Zeus, took the body in pieces to 
Parnassos and there deposited the same!.’ 


dé mapa 7d THs Alyalwy yys méoor elvat. Gruppe Gr. AZth. Rel. p. 102 n. 12 reads 
éugpadds Alyatos, but would connect the epithet with Alé ; and O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. iti. 3379 ff. apparently reverts to 6ugads Alyés in the same connexion. . But Alyaios, 
which implies an a-stem, cannot be legitimately derived from Alé; and the existence of 
a stream called Alydés and a plain called Alyaiov close to Delphoi (Steph. Byz. s.v. 
Alyaiov wé\ayos citing Hes. frag. 193 Flach 42 Rzach, Eustath. zz Dionys. fer. 132) 
strongly supports the reading éu@ahds Alyaios. The people of Elyros in Crete dedicated 
at Delphoi a bronze she-goat suckling Phylakides and Philandros, children of Apollon by 
the nymph Akakallis (Paus. 10. 16. 5). Small silver coins of Delphoi struck c. 520— 
500 B.C. have as their reverse type the head of a goat to right in an incuse square 
(J. N. Svoronos in the Bzd/. Corr. Hell. 1896 xx. 19 f. pl. 25, 7 f.), or the heads of two 
goats facing each other, sometimes with a dolphin to right above them, in an incuse 





Fig. 150. Fig. 151. Fig. 152. Fig. 153. Fig. 154. 


square (¢d. 75. p. 21 pl. 25, 20—22 and 23 f.); others, struck c. 500— 480, have rev. 
a goat’s head facing in an incuse square, with or without A A (zd. id. p. 27 f. pl. 25, 
25—28, 32 f. and 29 f.); others, c. 480—460, a goat’s head facing, between two dolphins, 
in an incuse square (7d. 2b. p. 24 pl. 25, 36—43 and p. 25 f. pl. 26, 1—6, 7, 8—13, 14); 
others, c. 460—448, the same type with DAA above it (zd. 2b. p. 26 pl. 26, 15—20) ; 
others, ¢. 421—355, the same type with AAA above it, but in a circular incuse (2d. 7d. 
p. 27f. pl. 26, 22—24, 25); others, c. 355, a goat’s head facing, between two dolphins 
and two ivy-leaves, with AEA above it (zd. 2. p. 28 pl. 26, 2231): see also Brit. Mus. 
Cat. Coins Central Greece p. 24 ff. pl. 4, 1—3, 6—12 (my figs. 150—154 are from casts of 
nos. I, 2, 10, 1f, 12), Head Hist. num.” p. 340 f. 

1 Clem. Al. protr. 2. 18. 1 f. p. 14, 17 ff. Stahlin (quoted by Euseb. praep. ev. 2. 3. 


Caldron of Apotheosis 219 


Other writers confirm this account and enable us to trace it back 
for more than four hundred years. Thus Tzetzes, the learned com- 
mentator on Lykophron’s Alexandra, says: 


‘Dionysos too was honoured at Delphoi along with Apollon in the following 
way. The Titans, having rent the limbs of Dionysos, gave them to Apollon his 
brother, after dropping them into a caldron; and Apollon put them away beside 
the tripod, as is stated by Kallimachos and by Euphorion in the words— 


They dropped Bakchos the divine above the bowl on the fire1.’ 


These passages prove, to my thinking, that the Thraco-Phrygian 
myth of Dionysos had taken root at Delphoi at least as early as the 
third century B.C., and that the caldron of apotheosis, an essential 
feature of the myth, was then identified with the tripod of Apollon 
himself. If Aischylos two centuries earlier can make his Pythéa 
say ‘ Bromios too possesses the place?’ it will hardly be maintained 
that we have here to do with a late and valueless tradition. The 
burden of proof rests with those who contend that the Thraco- 
Phrygian myth reached Delphoi later than the Thraco-Phrygian 
god. Be that as it may, the tomb of Dionysos at Delphoi, like the 
tomb of Zeus in Crete*, continued to be an object of interest till 
Byzantine times‘. Tatian indeed (c¢. 152 A.D.) confuses it with the 


25 f.) of 6€ Tiraves, of kai Stacmrdcavres adtév, AEBnrd Twa Tplrode émibévres kai Tod 
Avovicou éuBaddvres Ta méAn, KabnYouv mporepov: erecta 6BeNoKors mepiTetpayTes (aurel- 
pavres Euseb. H. after 7/7. 2. 426) ‘‘ taelpexov “Hdpaicrao.” Zeds dé torepov émipavels—ei 
““vépas axel” 
duodoyovow vudv ol Peoi—Kepavy@ Tods Tirdvas aikiferar kal Ta “én TOD Acovicov ’ATb\NwYL 
TQ matdl mapaxararlOerar kaTrabdwar. 6 dé, od yap AmelOnoe Adi, eis Tov Ilapvaccdy Pépwv 
KaratlOerat dteomacuévoy Tov vexpov. 

1 Tzetz. iz Lyk. Al. 208 érimaro dé kai Acdvucos év AeXgots adv ’AmédXwYL obTWal of 
Tirdves ra Acovicov médn orapdéavtes ’Amé\NwWYL ASEADPH GvTe abTod mapéBevTo EuBaddyTes 
AEByntt, 0 6€ mapa TH Tplrodi awébero ws Pyor Kaddimaxos (frag. 374 Schneider) kal 
Evdoplwy (frag. 15 Meineke) Néywy “‘év rupli Baxxov Siov brép piddnv €Bddovro” (ev vy 2. 


eds Hv, TaXA Tov THS KVlons TOY dmTwpévwY KpeGv weTadaBuy, Hs Sy TO 


éu b, Baxxots or Baxxas 6. ics) 2. dtavy2. dtov bd. éBdddovTo b. y 1. EuPadXovTes v 2. 
C. A. Lobeck cj. €u rupli Baxyéa Stov brép piddns EBddovto. A. Meineke Analecta Alex- 
andrina Berolini 1843 p. 49f. would read év wupl Baxxov Siov trép piddns €BddovTo. 
E. Scheer prints dv rupl Baxxay diav brép piddnv éBadovrTo sic). Cp. et. mag. p. 255, 13 ff. 
Aedopol:...67c 7a Arcovicov wédn orapdéavres of Tirdves T™ ’Amd\NwYe TapéfevTo EuBahdvTes 
EBnre* 6 OE mapa Tw Tplrod. dwébeTo Tapa TH adeAPw (ol SE mapa TH Tplod. cod. V. 
omitting the last four words, which appear to be a note on 7@ ’Amé\Nwve containing a 
would-be etymology of Ae\dgoi). 

2 Aisch. Zum. 24 Bpducos exe (sic cod. M. 8’ éxee codd. G. V. Fl. F.) rdv x@por, x.7-r. 

3 Supra i. 157 ff., 645 f., 663. 

4 Plout. de Zs. e¢ Os. 35 Kat Aedpol ra Tod Acovicov Neivava map’ ators (leg. abrors) 
mapa TO XpnoThpiov dmoKeicOar voulfovor: x.7.r., Tatian. or. adv. Graec. 8 p. 9, 15 ff. 
Schwartz év 7r@’ reuéver Tod Anrotdov Kadelrai tis dudadds: 6 6 budadds Taos éorlv 
Atovioov (E. Schwartz cj. Avovicov tagos éorlv), Euseb. chron, ann. Abr. 712 versio 
Armenia (ii. 42 and 44 Schoene) secundum quosdam Dionisii gesta, et eiusdem apud 
Indos res; atque Licurgi, et Actaei et Penthei, necnon quomodo (et) a quo stans in 


220 Dionysos and Caldron of Apotheosis 


omphalés'. But Ioannes Malalas? (c. 600 A.D.) and Georgios Syn- 
kellos* (c. 800 A.D.) quote, probably from Kephalion‘ (c. 125 A.D.), 
the statement of Philochoros? (¢. 275 B.C.) that in his day the tomb 
of Dionysos was still to be seen at Delphoi beside the golden statue 
of Apollon, that it resembled a simple step, and that it was in- 


scribed— 
Here lies in death Dionysos the son of Semele. 


The inscription reads like a copy (if not, indeed, the original) of 
that placed upon the tomb of Zeus®. But there is no reason to 


praelio moritur. dicit autem (de his) Dinarchus poeta, non rhetor (/vag. hist. Gr. iv. 391 
Miiller), 2d. 2. ann. Abr. 718 (ii. 44 Schoene) qui autem voluerit, cominus est inspicere 
Dionisii sepulcrum in Delphis iuxta aurum Apollinis (sic N.G. E. ad auveum Afpollinem Z. 
tuxta aureum Apollinem A.). namque repraesentatus est feminae forma Dionisius, qui 
dux erat exercitus, eo quod mixtae fuerint feminae in copiis, quae sub eo erant: nam 
viros et feminas (sic N. cam viris feminas guogue cett.) ducebat in praelium: ut Philo- 
chorus in secundo (libro) narrat (frag. 23 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 388 Miiller)), Kyrill. Al. 
c. Lulian. 1. 1 (Ixxvi. 520 Migne) dtaxooocr@ evernxoor@ ere: (sc. wera Mwoéa), Iepoeds 
Atévuoov dvatpet, 08 Kal riv Tapny eval paow év Aehpots rapa Tov xpucody ’Amé)\\wva, 
id. 7b. 10. 341 f. (Ixxvi. 1025 Migne) 6 yap roe Aelvapxos, moinrys ok donuos wy, Tas 
Avovicov mpdées apnyovmevos doa re atT@ werdynrat Tepl Tay “Ivdav, kal why Kal’ Axralwva 
kal Avkodpyov érws ein mepovevkas, eb udda decpnkws, avypjobar Kal adrov bd Ilepcéws 
Ouarelverat, Kal kndedobal (leg. kexndeicbal) ye unv év Aedgots rapa Tov xpvaobv Kadovmevov 
*AmO\Awva, Io. Malal. chron. 2 p. 45 Dindorf kal els Aedpods drreOay Exe? TedeuTG. Kal 
éréOn 7d NelWavoy Tod a’rod Acovicou éxe? év copw: Kal Ta brda Oé abrod avTos exe? els Td 
iepov éxpéuace, Kaas Aetvapxos (so R. Bentley for Anuapxos) 6 copmraros cuveypawaro 
mepl Tov avtod Avovicov. woa’tws dé Kal 6 copwraros Piidxopos Ta a’Ta cuveypawaro, ev 
H éxOécec ele repli Tod a’tod Avovicou (frag. 22 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 387 Miiller))- “‘ éorw 
idety riv rapnyv a’rod év Aedgots mapa Tov ’Améd\\wva Tov xpucodv. Babpov dé Te elvan 
brovoeirar 7 copds, év @ ypaderac (so Siebelis for BdApov—ypade)’ "HvOdde Ketrar Pavey 
Atévucos éx Lewédys.”? dpmoiws 5é kal 6 copwraros KedaNlwy 7a aira ev TH ldlw cvyypapypare 
(frag. 5 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 628 Miiller)) e&€@ero, Synkell. chron. 162 C—D (i. 307 
Dindorf) Atovicov mpaées kal Ta epi Ivdots, Auxodpydv re kat ’Axraiwva xai Ievdéa, 
dmws Te Hepoe? cvoras els udxynv avaipetrat, ws pyor Aelvapyxos (Sivapxos B. Anxapvos G.) 
6 ToinTns, ovX 6 PHTwp. Tw 5é BovNomévw mapectiy dev a’tod THv Tapyy ev Acdpols mapa 
Tov ’Amé\Nwva Tov xpucody, &vOa Kal Td 6Tov avaxe:tac Avyotcrou Kaicapos kai Népwvos 
N KUOapa. Babpov dé Te vouiferac Tots dyvoovaw 6 Aovicov tados. orparnyos de doxet 
yevécbar, kal otrw ypaperar Ondipwoppos dud Te aANas aloxpas airias Kai did Td wrEdOnLY 
arparov (so J. J. Scaliger for prt0On’aTparov) dmdifew: Brdife yap aly Tots dppeor Tas 
Onrelas, ws pnow 6 Pirdxopos ev devrépw, Kedren. hzst. comp. 24 C (i. 43 Bekker) rv 6€ 
Bowwrav atroy Bacwéa wh rapadexouévwy eis AeXgpods amépxerat kal Oavav Oamrera. Cp. 
also Aug. de civ. Dei 18. 12 his temporibus Dionysum, qui etiam Liber pater dictus est 
et post mortem deus habitus, vitem ferunt ostendisse in Attica terra hospiti suo. etc. 

1 Tatian. or. adv. Graec. 8 p. 9, 15 ff. Schwartz (supra p. 219 n. 4). 

2 To. Malal. chron. 2 p. 45 Dindorf (supra p. 219 n. 4). 

3 Synkell. chron. 162 C—D (i. 307 Dindorf) (supra p. 219 n. 4). 

4 Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 628 Miiller. 

5 Jd. 7b. iv. 391 suggests that Philochoros in his turn was copying Deinarchos the 
poet. But see E. Bethe in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iv. 2388 f. 

6 Cp. évOade Ketrar Oavwy Ardvucos éx LDeuéAns (supra p. 219 n. 4) with évOdde Kerra 
Bava Itkos 6 kat Leds (supra i. 158 n. 2). In view of Porph. v. Pyth. 17 Gde Savi Keira 
Zav dv Ala xuxhjoKxovow we may conjecture that the original epitaph was a hexameter 


Pythagoras as Apollon reborn 221 


doubt the accuracy of Philochoros’ account. It may even be that 
in the fifth-century type of Apollon seated on the tripod (fig. 142)? 
we should regard the stepped base beneath his feet as a representa- 
tion of Dionysos’ tomb’. 

Other legends of death and resurrection clung about the Delphic 
tripod. Writers of the Roman age maintained that the bones and 
the teeth of Python were kept in its caldron, and even tried to 
derive the word cortina, ‘caldron, from corzwm, ‘skin, on the ground 
that the tripod was covered or surrounded with Python’s skin’, 
Perhaps the pebbles, which for purposes of divination were really 
kept in the bowl of the tripod*, had been explained as the relics of 
Python, and the metallic sides of the /ées as plates from his coppery 
skin. The local czcerone would be equal to both inventions. 


(rt) Pythagoras as Apollon reborn. 


But the strangest of the stories attaching to the tripod remains 
to be told. Porphyrios (233 —c. 304 A.D.) in his Life of Pythagoras 
writes : 


‘Later, when Polykrates became tyrant of Samos, Pythagoras thought it 
unseemly for a philosopher to live under a tyranny, and resolved to sail for Italy. 
In the course of his voyage he put in at Delphoi and inscribed on the tomb of 
Apollon an elegiac couplet, stating therein that Apollon was the son of Silenos, 
that he had been slain by Python, and that he had been buried in the so-called 
tripod, which had got this name from the fact that three maidens, the daughters 
of Triopas, had here made lamentation for Apollon®.’ 


line. If Dionysos had the priority, his tomb might have borne some such inscription as 
de Oavav ketrar Dewednyeverns Acdvucos. But? 

1 Supra p. 202. 

* This conclusion hardly squares with F. Courby’s tentative reconstruction of the 
Pythian chapel (¢z/fra p. 239). But it is by no means certain that the block of limestone 
(Fourlles de Delphes ii. 1. 67 fig. 59), believed by Courby to have supported the tomb of 
Dionysos and an adjoining altar, really served that purpose, or even came from the chapel 
at all. 

3 Hyg. fab. 140, Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 3. 92, 6. 347, interp. Serv. 7z Verg. Aen. 3. 360, 
schol. Lucan. 5. 152, Lact. Plac. zz Stat. Ted. 1. 509, Myth. Vat. 3. 8. 5, cp. Eustath. 
tm Dionys. per. 441- 

4 Eudok. vzol. 265, Souid. s.v. Ilv0é, Nonnos iz Greg. Naz. in Julian. imp. invect. 
2. 13 p. 165 (printed in A. Westermann MYOOLPA®OI Scriptores poeticae historiae 
Graect Brunsvigae 1843 p. 384 Append. narr. no. 67). 

® Porph. v. Pyth. 16 (quoted by Kyrill. Al. c. Zulian. 10. 342 (Ixxvi. 1025 f. Migne)) 
Mera O€ Tatra THs Ilo\uKparous Tupavvidos Yaulovs KaradaBovons, ov mpérov iyyovmevos 6 
IIvéaydpas év rovaity modirela Brody avdpi pirocdgy, SrevonOn els IraNlav dmaipev. ws dé 
méwv Aedpots mpocécxero, éheyeiov TE Tot ’ATd\NwYOS Tapw Eréypawe, OV of EdjAov ws 
TiArnvod pev jw vios 6 ’Amb\AwY, avypéOn 5é bro ddwvos, exndevOn dé ev Tw Kadoupmevw 
Tplrod, ds tavryns Ervxe THS Emwvuulas dia TO TpEls pas Tas T'pidmov Ouyarépas évtaida 
Opnvijcas ’Amwd\Nwva. F. Wieseler Ueber den delphischen Dreifuss (extr. from the Adz. d. 
gitt. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe xv) Gottingen 1871 p. 17 cj. Tplome for Tpirrode 
(cp. supra p. 178 n. 1). One could imagine—if a moment’s play be allowed to fancy— 


222 Pythagoras as Apollon reborn 


What are we to think of this peculiar narrative? It is always unsafe 
to disregard Pythagorean vagaries; they are so often found to 
contain elements of primitive lore’. We must not, therefore, hastily 
assume that Python killing Apollon was a wilful perversion of 
Apollon killing Python*. That was not Pythagoras’ attitude towards 
the gods, least of all towards Apollon, with whom he stood in rela- 
tions of exceptional intimacy. Apollonios (of Tyana ?*) states that, 
according to certain authorities, Pythagoras was nominally the son 
of Mnesarchos, but really the son of Apollon by Pythais. Had not 
a Samian poet penned the couplet ?— 


Pythais fairest of the Samian fair 
Zeus-loved Pythagoras to Apollon bare4. 


The authorities in question included Epimenides, Eudoxos, and 
Xenokrates*. And even those who denied that Pythagoras was 
actually the son of Apollon admitted that there was some mys- 


the Pythagorean couplet conceived somewhat as follows: ZAnvob. yévos cde damels vdwve 
TéOarra | PoiBos, dv ai rpiccai Opyveov ai Tploros. 

1 Supra i. 66, 135, 282 n. 7, 303, 558 n. 5, 646, ii. 40 ff., alzd. 

2 The notion, no doubt, is unique in ancient literature; but so in ancient art is the 
vase-painting of Iason swallowed by the Colchian snake and disgorged at the bidding of 
Athena (E. Gerhard in the Azz. d. Just. 1836 viii. 289—295, Mon. d. Znst. ii pl. 35, 
Welcker Alt. Denkm. iii. 3783—384 pl. 24, 1 f., Baumeister Denkm. i. 123 f. fig. 129, 
K. Seeliger in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 83 f. fig., Reinach Rép. Vases i. 101, 102, 1, 
W. Helbig /iihrer durch die dffentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Alterttimer in Rom?® 
Leipzig 1912 i. 344 f. no. 578, J. E. Harrison 7emis Cambridge 1912 p. 435 f. fig. 135 
from a photograph), to which however H. Schmidt /ovza Gottingen 1907 p. 22 n. 1 with 
fig. 5 finds a partial parallel in a mirror-design of Iason grasping sword and fleece but 
already bitten, not to say half-eaten, by the snake (Gerhard 27. Spzegel iii. 221 f. 
pl. 238). 

8 So J. Miller in Pauly—Wissowa feal-Enc. ii. 148 after E. Rohde in the Rhein. 
Mus. 1871 xxvi. 554 ff., 26. 1872 xxvii. 23 ff. 

4 Porph. v. Pyth. 2 ’Amod\wvios & €v trois mepl UvOaydpou cal unrépa davarypader 
Ilvéatda, amébyovov ’Aykalov, Tod ‘olkucTod THs Ddpov. Twas 6€ "Amd\\wvos avdrov ioropelv 
kal Ilv@atdos re yovw, NOyw 6é Mvnodpxov Pyolvy ’Amo\Advios. Tv yoy moray Tov 
Zaplwy elmew twa: ‘*Ilv@aydpay 6’, dv erixre At Pidov ’AmdANwY | IlvOats, 7 KaAXos 
mwhetarov éxev Laulwv’’ (Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 3. 15). Cp. Iambl. v. Pyth. 4 ff. 
who expands the above account, ¢.g. mentioning that Pythais’ former name was Parthenis, 
but does not cite his source. In the epigram Iamblichos, followed by E. Cougny, reads 
Aut pidw for Au gidov: but the reference is to the eagle which Pythagoras drew down and 
stroked at Olympia (Plout. v. am. 8, Porph. v. Pyth. 25, Iambl. v. Pyth. 62) or to the 
white eagle which he patted at Kroton (Ail. var. hist. 4. 17, Iambl. v. Pyth. 142). 

5 Tambl. v. Pyth. 7 wapairnréoe yap "Emipevidys (identified by E. Rohde in the Rhex 
Mus. 1872 xxvii. 23 and by H. Demoulin Apiménide de Créte Bruxelles 1901 p. 85 with 
Epimenides 6 yeveadéyos of Diog. Laert. 1. 115: but see O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. vi. 178) kat Evdofos (of Rhodes, according to F. Jacoby in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. vi. 930) kal Revoxpdrns (the famous philosopher of Kalchedon, on whom 
E. Rohde Joc. ct. p. 23 f. supposes the fragment to be fathered) trovoobvres rH Hapbevidc 
Tore prynvac Tov ’AmwdNAw Kal Kvovoay a’THY Ex pH oUTws Exovons KaTacTHaal TE Kal mpo- 
ayyethat dia THs Tpopyridos. TovTO ev ov ovdamas Sel mpociecOat. 


Pythagoras as Apollon reborn 42% 


terious bond of union between the philosopher and the god'. Many 
persons went further and frankly spoke of Pythagoras as Apollon 
Pythios or Hyperbéreos or Patén, declaring that he had appeared as 
a god in human shape? and emphasising the resemblance of his 
oracular sayings to those of the Pythian Apollon*®. I shall of course 
be told by our critical purists that all this is neo-Pythagorean 
nonsense, to be dismissed without further enquiry. But there is 
more in it than that. It is precisely when we confine ourselves to 
the earliest stratum of the Pythagorean tradition’ that we come 
upon the most remarkable evidence of Pythagoras’ claim to be 
Apollon redivivus. We have it on the word of Aristotle that the 
Pythagoreans held among their most cherished convictions the 
tripartite subdivision of ‘rational animal’ into ‘god, man, and such 
as Pythagoras®’ Moreover, Aristotle states that the Crotoniates 
called Pythagoras Apollon Ayperbdretos, and is aware of the story 
that at Kroton Pythagoras exhibited his golden thigh in proof of 
this identification’. Now the golden thigh of Pythagoras must, it 


1 Tambl. v. Pyth. 8 continues 7d pévroe thy IvOaydpou puxiv aro rhs ’Amd\\wvos 
nyeuovias ofcav etre cuvorradoy elre kal dANws olKedrEepov ETL mpds Tov Gedy TodTov ouVTE- 
Tayuevny KarameméupOar els avOpwrrous, ovdels dv augicByTHcee K.T.X. Cp. Loukian. 
somn. s. gall. 16 (the cock that had once been Pythagoras speaks) ws wév €& ’Amd\X\wvos 
TO mp@rov h WuxH Moe KaTaTTapuevy és Thy yhv évédr els dvOpwrov THua, HvTwa Thy KaTAdiKny 
éxTehovoa, maxpov dv ein Néyev. 

* Tambl. v. Pyth. 30 Kal wera Tov Oedy Tov IvOaydpay Aowrdy KarnplOmouv ws ayabdy 
Twa Saluova Kai piiavOpwrérarov, of wey Tov I1vOcov, of 6é roy é& ‘TrrepBopéwy ’AméANwva, 
oi d€ Tov Ilarva, of dé Tv Thy ceNqvnv KaToikotyTav Saiudvwv eva, dAdo dé &ANov TOY 
’OduuTlwv Oeav Epjurfor, els whéevay Kal éravdpAwow Tov Ovnrov Blov NéyorTes ev avOpw- 
mivy woppn pavfvat Tots TéTe, K.T.v., Cp. 2b. 10, 91 f., 133, 135, 140, Loukian. dial. mort. 
20. 3 (Menippos to Pythagoras) xatpe, & EvpopBe 7) “AroNXov 7) 6 re av €0éXys. See now 
A. Delatte Etudes sur la littérature pythagoricienne Paris 1915 p. 279 f. 

3 Tambl. v. Pyth. 161. Presumably the name IIv@ayépas helped out the comparison, 
though it was also explained as meaning 671 dpa bro rod IvOiov mponyopevOn (20. 7). 

The cult of Apollon naturally appealed to the circle of Pythagoras. Mnesarchos built 
a sanctuary for Apollon Pythzos in Samos (Iambl. v. Pyth. g). Pythagoras in Delos 
would worship only at the altar of Apollon Gesétor, where wheat, barley, and cakes were 
offered, but no burnt sacrifice (Aristot. frag. 447 Rose ap. Diog. Laert. 8. 13, Iambl. 
wv. Pyth. 25, 35). The Pythagoreans in general followed suit (Mnesimachos A/cmaeo 
JSrag. t (Frag. com. Gr. iii. 567 Meineke) af. Diog. Laert. 37 as Huéayopicry (Menagius 
cj. Ilv@ayopicrai. C. G. Cobet restored Hv9ayopicri) Qvowev TE Aoéia). 

4 As determined by E. Rohde ‘* Die Quellen des Jamblichus in seiner Biographie des 
Pythagoras’ in the Rhezn. Mus. 1871 xxvi. 554 ff., 2. 1872 xxvii. 23 ff.: see J. Burnet 
Early Greek Philosophy London and Edinburgh 1892 p. 89 ff. 

5 Aristot. frag. 187 Rose ap. Iambl. v. Pyth. 31 iorope? dé Kal’ Apirrorédns ev Trois 
mept THs UvOayopixis pirocodias dialpeciv rwa Troavde bro Tv avdpw&y év rots wavy arop- 
pros SuapudAdrrecOar: Tod oyiKod fyou TO mév éoTt Oeds, TO & dvOpwmos, 7d dé ofov 
Tlv@aydpas, cp. 26. 144 adda Kal TO arropot'mevov ToiTO onualve* ott yap wap’ airots 
Neyouevoy Gre ‘‘dvOpwmos Slros éori Kal dpvis kal Tpirov dAdo.” 7d yap Tplrov Ilv@ayédpas 
€oTt. 


6 Aristot. frag. 186 Rose apf. Apollon. hist. mir. 6 and af. Ail. var. hist. 2. 26 (on 


224 Pythagoras as Apollon reborn 


seems to mel, be interpreted as strictly analogous to the ivory 
shoulder of Pelops. Indeed, Origenes speaks of ‘ Pythagoras, who 
performed many miracles and to a whole congregation of Hellenes 
showed that his thigh was made of ivory?” But the ivory shoulder 
of Pelops, as was pointed out by my far-sighted friend Mr F. M. 
Cornford’, presupposes the rite of regeneration. Similarly we may 


which see E. Zeller A History of Greek Philosophy trans. S. F. Alleyne London 1881 i. 
338 n. 4). The same story is told by Plout. v. Mam. 8, Loukian. vit. auct. 6, somn. s. 
gall. 18, Orig. c. Cels. 6. 8, Diog. Laert. 8. 11, Ail. var. hist. 4. 17, Porph. v. Pyth. 28, 
Iambl. v. Pyth. 91 f., 135, 140, of whom Plout. /oc. cit. and Ail. Joc. cit. state that the 
incident happened at Olympia. 

1 And to others before me. .W. Mannhardt Germanische Mythen Berlin 1858 p. 74: 
“so weicht der Grieche auch darin von den nordlichen Ueberlieferungen (mit Ausnahme 
des Marchens von Eisenlaci) ab, dass er die Mythe vom fehlenden Knochen, die der 
Germane von wiederbelebten Tieren erzahlt, von aus dem Tode erweckten Menschen 
oder Heroen bewahrte. Ich mache ausser der Pelopssage, ohne die Mythe vom holzernen 
Gliede des Osiris [Plout. de /s. e¢ Os. 18, cp. Hippolyt. vef Aaeres. 5. 7 p. 101 Miller] in 
Betracht zu ziehn, nur Jamblichs Nachricht vom hyperboreischen Apollénpriester Abaris, 
dem Luftwandelnden (al@poBdarns) namhaft, dem sich Pythagoras durch eine goldene 
Hiifte als Wiedergeborener zu erkennen gab.’ Cp. id. Wald- und Feldkulte* Berlin 1904 
i. 116 n. 3. Frazer Golden Bough ii. 418 f., 26.3: Spirits of Corn and Wild ii. 263 f. 
quotes Mannhardt to the same effect and views Pythagoras’ golden thigh as his certificate 
of resurrection. R. Eisler Weltenmantel und Himmelszelt Miinchen 1910 ii. 680 likewise 
approves of Mannhardt’s comparison, and (2d. n. 6) cites from N. J. Majlath Magyarische 
Sagen, Mihrchen und Erzahlungen® Stuttgart und Tiibingen 1837 ii. 195 and J. Erdélyi 
Ungarische Sagen und Marchen, aus dem Erdélyischen Sammlung [Vépdalok és mondék] 
iibersetzt von G. Stier Berlin 1850 p. 105 ff. the Hungarian tale of a twelve-headed 
dragon, who vanquished the Magyar Eisenlaci, chopped him into a hundred pieces, and 
put them as promised in a cloth on his horse. This fled with them to the serpent-king, 
who laid the bones in order and washed them with water in which healing herbs had 
been cooked. Hereupon Eisenlaci woke up and was seven times as handsome as before. 
His right shoulder blade had fallen out of the bundle on his horse’s back ; but the 
serpent-king made him a new one out of gold and ivory. The Old Irish myth of Nuada 
Argat-lim, ‘of the Silver Hand’ (/o/k-Lore 1906 xvii. 29), and the English tale of a 
woman with a golden arm (a variant gives it as a golden leg) take us in a different 
direction (J. Jacobs English Fairy Tales London 1898 pp. 138f., 252 f.). So does an 
Epirote tale of a boy with a golden finger (J. G. von Hahn Griechische und albanesische 
Marchen Leipzig 1864 ii. 197 ff., L. Laistner Das Ratsel der Sphinx Berlin 1889 ii. 147)- 
More to the point is a tale told by ‘Old Macdonald, travelling tinker’ to J. F. Campbell 
Popular Tales of the West Highlands Edinburgh 1860 i. xcv f. (The daughter of a wise 
woman fell in Jove with an enchanted prince. ‘And the old woman agreed to help her 
to her will. A caldron was prepared and filled with plants; and the king’s son was put 
into it stripped to the magic shirt, and the girl was stripped to the waist. And the mother 
stood by with a great knife, which she gave to her daughter. Then the king’s son was 
put down in the caldron, and the great serpent, which appeared to be a shirt about his 
neck, changed into its own form, and sprang on the girl and fastened on her; and she 

cut away the hold, and the king’s son was freed from the spells. Then they were married, 
and a golden breast was made for the lady’). 

2 Orig. c. Cels. 6. 8 epi dé Ilv@arydpou, mdeiora doa Tepatevoapévou Kal deiEavTos pév 
év mavnyiper ‘EAjvwv éeXepavtwor Tov pnpov,...Tt xpy Kal éyeu ; 

3 F. M. Cornford in J. E. Harrison Zhemzs Cambridge 1912 p. 243 ff., 2d. The Origin 
of Attic Comedy London 1914 p. 89, sepra i. 419 n. 10, 679, ii. 210 ff. 


Pythagoras as Apollon reborn 225 


with some assurance conclude that the Crotoniates knew of a myth 
in which Apollon Hyferbdéreos was slain, boiled in a caldron, and 
pieced together again—the missing portion being replaced in gilded 
ivory. Pythagoras, who claimed to be the god come to life once 
more, must needs make good his claim by displaying a golden thigh. 

Seven centuries later Alexandros the impostor of Abonou 
Teichos! aped the pretensions of Pythagoras and provided a butt 
for the satire of Lucian?: 


‘The torch ceremony with its ritual skippings often enabled him to bestow 
a glimpse of his thigh, which was thus discovered to be of gold; it was pre- 
sumably enveloped in cloth of gold, which glittered in the lamp-light. This 
gave rise to a debate between two wiseacres, whether the golden thigh meant 
that he had inherited Pythagoras’s soul, or merely that their two souls were 
alike; the question was referred to Alexander himself, and King Glycon* 
relieved their perplexity with an oracle: 


Waxes and wanes Pythagoras’ soul : the seer’s 
Is from the mind of Zeus an emanation. 

His Father sent him, virtuous men to aid, 

And with his bolt one day shall call him home.’ 


But, if Pythagoras posed as Apollon resurgent, resurrection im- 
plies a previous death and burial. When did Apollon die? Where 
was he buried? The great crisis of his life had been his contest 
with Python. Pythagoras not unnaturally asserted that Apollon had 
been slain by Python® and buried in the Delphic tripod. His fol- 
lowers probably felt it to be significant that the principal coin-type 
of Kroton was, from first to last, a tripod-/ébes (figs. 155—157)*. 


1 Infra Append. L. 

2 Loukian. Alex. 40 trans. H. W. Fowler and F. G. Fowler: 

3 Infra Append. L. 

+ Ilvdayépou puxh more ev POlver, adore 8 avlEer: | ) 6é rpopnrein Ains Ppevbs eorw 
droppwé. | kal www éreuWe marnp ayabay avdp&v émapwydv: | kal madw és Avds elor Aros 
Bdnbeioa kepavvg (Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 6. 310). 

> Yet Iambl. v. Pyth. 52 states that Pythagoras told the boys assembled in the P/thion 
at Kroton rov...Iv@ixdy (sc. ayava TeOjvat) KkparnOévros Tod Ilv@wvos bro ratééds. This 
tells against my view, or would do so were Iamblichos a more reliable author. 

§ Brit: Mus. Cat. Coins Italy p. 342 ff. figs., Hunter Cat. Coins i. 128 ff. pl. 9, 
11—19, Garrucci Mon. Jt. ant. p. 147 ff. pl. 108, 26—37, pl. 109, 1—33, 35, pl. r1o, r1, 
13 f., 16—18, 20, 29, Head Azst. num.” p. 94 ff. figs. 52—54, Anson Wim. Gr. i. 100 ff. 
nos. 963—1008, 122 no. 1210, 129 nos. 1274—1280, 130 nos. 1282—1287 pls. 17 f., 23 f. 
I figure three specimens in the McClean collection. B. V. Head of. czt. p. 9g f. rightly 
rejects the view advanced by Honoré d’Albert, duc de Luynes in the Vouwv. Ann. 1836 
i. 372 ff. (cp. J. de Witte in the Rev. Mum. 1844 p. 149 ff.) and F. Lenormant Za Grande- 
Gréce paysages et histoire Paris 1881 ii. g6—101 (cp. G. Macdonald Coin Types Glasgow 
1905 p. 12 ff., G. F. Hill Azstortcal Greek Coins London 1906 p. 23 ff., A. W. Hands 
Coins of Magna Grecia London 1gog p. 158 ff.) that the coin-types of Kroton were 
throughout inspired by the religious ideas of the Pythagoreans, the tripod symbolising 
Apollon Pythzos, the eagle Zeus, etc. The eagle, which occurs first as a reverse type 
incuse, was very possibly (szfra i. 602 n. 5) suggested by the reverse type incuse of the 


¢, I, 15 


226 Pythagoras as Apollon reborn 


On this showing it would appear that the Pythagorean Apollon, 
living again in the person of Pythagoras, was near akin to the 
Thraco-Phrygian or Cretan form of the reborn Zeus, Further con- 
firmation of the fact is to be found in Pythagorean legends both 
early and late. Herodotos was told by Greeks inhabiting the 
Hellespont and Pontos that Salmoxis was a slave of Pythagoras 
in Samos, that when freed he made his fortune and introduced 





Fig. 157. 


Ionic culture into his native land of Thrace: here he built a hall, 
feasted the foremost of the citizens, and taught them that he together 
with his fellow-feasters and their descendants instead of dying would 
come to a land of perpetual life and felicity ; meantime he made 
an underground chamber and vanished from their sight, being 
mourned by them as dead, but after living for three years in his 
retreat reappeared in the fourth year and induced them to believe 
his words’, This tale, which was accepted without demur by later 
authors?, Herodotos hesitates to believe, adding that in his opinion ~ 


tripod (cp. fig. 156 with fig. 155). It remains, however, likely enough that the Pythagoreans 
read their own meaning into the Crotoniate types, types which were fixed on other and 
more mundane grounds. 

1 Hdt. 4. 95. 

2 Strab. 297 f., 762, Porph. v. Pyth. 14 f. (quoted by Kyrill. Al. ¢. Zzdéan. 6. 208 (Ixxvi. 


Pythagoras as Apollon reborn 229 


Salmoxis lived long before Pythagoras and was perhaps a local 
datmon of the Getait. The Getai, he says, practise deification?; 
they think that they themselves live for ever and that so-called 
death means merely going to the dazmon Salmoxis*, whom some 
of them call Gebeleizis*, Once in four years they send a messenger 
to Salmoxis by tossing him up in the air and catching him on the 
points of three javelins®’, The Hellespontine account is no doubt 
a ‘rationalizing story®’; but it contains indications of value. The 
feasting of the Thracians, the simulated death, the promise of im- 
mortal bliss—what are these but the dédrzs of the very doctrine 
that we are investigating? Salmoxis, like Pythagoras, stands for 
the caldron of apotheosis. Later writers spell his name Zalmoxis, 
sometimes Zamolxis’; and Porphyrios does us a good turn by ex- 
plaining it: 

‘Pythagoras had yet another lad, whom he had got from Thrace, named 


Zdlmoxis because at birth a bear-skin had been thrown over him; for the 
Thracians call the skin zalmds*/ 


Now at Kyzikos near the Hellespont it was said that the nurses of 


820 A—B Migne)), Iambl. wv. Pyth. 104, 173, Diog. Laert. prooem. 1 and 8. 2, Hesych. s.v. 
Zddpoks, Phot. lex. s.v. ZdpodrSis=el. mag. p. 407, 45 ff.=Souid. s.v. Zdpodéks citing 
inter alia pseudo-Hellanikos BapBapixa voutwa (Frag. hist. Gr. i. xxx Miiller). Cp. Plat. 
Charm. 1588, Mnaseas frag. 23 (Frag. hist. Gr. iil. 153 Miiller) af. Phot., et. mag., 
Souid. occ. citt., Diod. 1. 94, Clem. Al. strom. 4. 8 p. 274, 21 ff. Stahlin, Orig. c. Ce/s. 
3. 34, Zonar. lex. s.v. Zadpmokts. 

1 Hat. 4. 96. 

2 ’A@avarifover. On the precise meaning of this term see I. M. Linforth ‘ Oi ’A@ava- 
tlgovres’ in Class. Philol. 1918 xiii. 23—33. 

3 Plat. Charm. 156D, Arrian. 1. 3. 2, Loukian. Scyth. 1, concil. deor. 9. Cp. Phot. 
lex. s.v. Ldpor&ts=el. mag. p. 407, 45 ff-=Souid. s.v. Zduorkis-...d0avarifouor dé Kai 
Tépefor (Tepérigor Phot.) kat KpdBugo, cal rods dro@avdvras ws LZdporkiv pacw olxerOa, 
néew dé avdis with Rohde Psyche? ii. 29 n. 1. 

4 Various attempts have been made to elucidate the word TeBedétgv (see Waser in 
Pauly—Wissowa eal-Enc. vii. 894). I should surmise that it is related to Latin gabalus, 
Old Irish gadu/, Welsh gebel, Old High German gabala, Middle High German gade/, etc. 
(F. Kluge Ztymologisches Worterbuch der deutschen Sprache® Strassburg 1899 p. 130, 
Walde Lat. etym. Worterb.” p. 330 f.), and signifies ‘the god with a Fork.’ The fork in 
question would be either a weapon (Schrader Readlex. p. 261) like the fork of Hades 
(infra § 3 (c) iv (6)) or a divining rod comparable with the Pythagorean Y (supra i. 282 
n. 7). All this, however, is the merest speculation. 

© Hidt, 4: oa. 

8 W. W. How and J. Wells 4 Commentary on Herodotus Oxford 1912 i. 335. 

7 H. Stein on Hdt. 4. 94 notes: ‘Die Namensform schwankt iiberall zwischen 
Zadwoks (so die Hss. des Her.), Zddwoks und Zduorss, Zadmorés, doch scheinen die 
ersten, die nur orthographisch verchieden sind, glaubwiirdiger.’ This disposes of Bar- 
tholomae’s derivation (sera i. 781). 

8 Porph. v. Pyth. 14 jv & adrod wal €repov merpdxvov, 6 x Opaxns ExtHcaro, @ Zddmokes 
qv dvoua, érel yevvnbévre ait@ Sopa apxrov émeBdjOn: Thy yap Sopay of Opaxes fadmov 
kadotow. Cp. Zonar. lex. s.v. faduwdns: 6 cOAdBos (leg. cAdBos) and gloss. Aurivillii 
p- 11 (cited by Stephanus 7%es. Gr. Ling. iv. 6 C). 


15-2 


228 Pythagoras as Apollon reborn 


the infant Zeus had been .turned into bears}, as was the case also 
with his nurses in Crete. Moreover, an interesting myth told how 
the sinews of Zeus had on one. occasion been cut out and wrapped 
in a bear-skin by Typhon*. Another made him consort with the 
Arcadian Kallisto‘, whom Artemis® or Hera® or he’ transformed 


1 Supra i. 112 n. 5. 2 Supra i, 112 n. 3. 

3 Infra § 3 (a) vi (x). 

4 R. Franz De Callistus fabula (Leipziger Studien fiir classischen Philologie xii) 
Leipzig 1890, zd. in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 931—935, Farnell Cults of Gk. States ii. 438, 
Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 415. It is commonly assumed that Kallisto, whose 
grave—a lofty mound of earth covered with trees—was topped by a sanctuary of Artemis 
Kalliste (Paus. 8. 35. 8), is a hhypostasis or by-form of Artemis (so first K. O. Miiller 
Prolegomena zu einer wissenschaftlichen Mythologie Gottingen 1825 p. 73 ff., C. O. Miiller 
The History and Antiquities of the Doric Race trans. H. Tufnell and G. C. Lewis Oxford 
1830 i. 390 f.). My contention is that in such cases we should rather suppose a priestess 
regarded as the goddess incarnate and bearing the name of the animal specially connected 
with her divinity (supra i. 453). The grave of Kallisto suggests a human embodiment. 
The complimentary name suits a ‘bear’ (J. Grimm TZeztonic Mythology trans. J. S. 
Stallybrass London 1883 ii. 667 f., E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 
p. 103 f., Class. Rev. 1894 viii. 383 f.). The metamorphosis at the hands of Artemis 
recalls the dpxrou of Artemis Brauronéa (supra i. 421 f., 442). g 

° So in the oldest accessible. form of the myth: Hes. frag. 137 Flach 181 Rzach af. 
pseudo-Eratosth. ca¢ast. 1. 1 (=E. Maass Commentariorum in Avatum religuiae Berlin 
1898 p. 181 b 1 ff., cp. schol. Arat. 27) ravrnv ‘Holodés pnow Avxdovos Ovyarépa év ’Apkadia 
oiketv, éécOar dé wera “Apréuidos Thy mepl Tas Onpas aywynv ev Tols dpect ToretoBat: 
pOapeicay dé (so C. Robert for Mss. Te) bad Atos éupetvar NavOavovcay thy Oebv’ Pwpa- 
Ojvar dé torepov éritoxoy (so Koppiers for Mss. éml réxov edd.plerique éml réxou) 7467 
otoav dpbeicay br’ abras Novouevnv: ed’ @ dpyrobeioav Thy Oedy amoOnprdca a’ryy: Kal 
oUrws Tekely dpKTov yevouévnyv Tov K\nOévTa ’Apkdba* ovcav & év Tw Oper OnpevOFvar wd 
alré\wv twdy Kal tapadodjvar wera Tod Bpépous To Avkdows peta xpdvov dé Tiva dd~EaL 
eigedGet eis TO TOU Atos &Barov iepoy (Koppiers and A, Olivieri delete iepdv : perhaps we 
should rather read &Barov <dv> iepdv) dyvoncacay Tov vouov: rd dé Tod ldiov viod 
SiwKomévny kal Tov Apkddwy, kal dvarpetcOar wédAXoveay dia Tov elpnuévoy vouov, 6 Leds dua 
Tiv ouyyéveay atrhy é&eiheTo Kal év Tois dorpows a’Thy €Onkev: “Apxroy 6é airiv wvouace 
dua 7d cuUBEeBnKds ad’TH cbumTwua, 7d. 2.1. 8 cod. R. (=E. Maass of. ct. p. 574, 8 ff, 
cp. 2. p. 181-a 1 ff.) <m>epi rovrov déyerar bre ’Apkas éorw 6 Kadduorods kal Avs 
yeyovws, wxnoe 6€ mepl 7d Avxaoy (cod. Auxaiov) POelpavros avrhy Auds: ov mpoomonod- 
pevos 6 Aukdwy tov Ala ékécev, ws pnow “Halodos, cal 7d Bpépos xataxdpas mapéOnker ert 
Thy Tpamevav* bbev éxeivnv ev avarpéret, ad’ (so A. Olivieri for cod. é’) ob 7 Tpamefois 
Kadetrac modus, Thy 6€ oiklay éxepatywoe, Tov 6é Avkdova ameAnplwoe kal adrovy UKov 
érolnce: Tov 6é "Apxdda maddw dvamddoas Onkev aprioy (supra p. 393) Kal érpady map’ 
aimé\w: veavicxos & wy Hdn Soxet karadpapely eis TO AvKatov Kal dyvonoas THY pnTépa 
yfjae’ ol 6€ KaToukodyTes Tov Témov dudorépous Kata vouov Ovew Eueddov: 6 dé Leds efedd- 
Mevos avrovs did THY cvyyéveay els Ta doTpa avyyayer, Apollod. 3. 8. 2 Evundos (frag. 14 
Kinkel, but R. Franz cj. ‘Holodos) 6@ Kai twes érepor Aéyouor. AvKdove Kal Ouvyarépa 
Kaddtora yevéobar* “Hoiodos (R. Franz cj. Evundos) pev yap abrivy play elvar Tv vuppav 
Aéyet, “Actos | frag. g Kinkel) 6é Nuxréws, Pepexddns (frag. 86 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 92 
Miiller)) 5€ Knréws. Cp. Hyg. poet. astr. 2. 1 p. 30, 4 ff. Bunte, schol. Caes. Germ. 
Aratea p. 381, 8 ff. Eyssenhardt. 

The religious art of the fourth century B.C. with its dislike of theriomorphism repre- 
sented Artemis as shooting a purely human Kallista. Thus coppers of Orchomenos in 
Arkadia, struck shortly after 370 B.c., have for obverse type Artemis kneeling with bow 


eee | 2 , = ‘ 
ee cat 3 as an ; j 
a ses en 2 in te 
oy a ceieriic tees is. 
Sr ee See 


. a ‘irre 
—— 


yy EF 
ae ZT 68 S a 
id : ; Fay 
ge 7 


i a 





Lu Ger asng ag 


‘oj9 ‘sopowAuer UIA o[8¥e ue sv ‘OISTTTRY WII Simo sv 
‘Q]IWOg YIM UU vw SE ‘Epa GIA UBS ¥ Sv SNOZ Suusseides ‘esoyND wo wapndu7s I9Apis 





AX ?®id 


Pythagoras as Apollon reborn 229 


into a she-bear. Yet another spoke of Zeus himself as metamor- 
phosed into a bear, when he mated with Amaltheia!. In view of 


just discharged and sometimes a hound seated behind her ; for reverse, Kallisto falling 
back pierced by the arrow and the infant Arkas on the ground, the whole inscribed 


EPXOMEN I2.N or EPXOMENI Q2N (Brit. Aus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus 





Fig. 158. Fig. 159. 


p- 190 pl. 35,15 =my fig. 158, Imhoof-Blumer Monn. gr. p. 203 pl. E, 10, za. and P. Gardner 
Num. Comm. Paus. ii. 96 pl. S, 22 f., Head Hest. num.? p. 451, cp. Imhoof-Blumer 
. Monn. gr. p. 200 pl. E, g=my fig. 159). 

§ This version, which goes back to Kallim. frag. 385 ap. schol. A.D. //. 18. 487, was 
commonly accepted throughout the Roman age (Ov. met. 2. 409 ff., Paus. 8. 3. 6, Hyg. 
Jab. 177, poet. astr. 2. 1 p. 31, 3 ff. Bunte, Serv. zz Verg. georg. 1. 67, 1. 138, Lact. Plac. 
im Stat. Theb. 3. 685, Isid. orig. 3. 70. 35, Myth. Vat. 1. 17, 2. 58, Tzetz. zz Hes. o.d. 
564, Eustath. 27 //. p. 1156, 9 ff.). 

7 So Apollod. 3. 8. 2, Hyg. poet. astr. 2. 1 p. 31, 6 ff. Bunte, Liban. zavv. 6 (iv. 1101 
Reiske). 

From s. iv B.c. onwards Zeus himself was said to have wooed Kallisto in one or other 
of several disguises. Either he took the form of Artemis (Amphis zc. fad. frag. 11 (Frag. 
com. Gr. iii. 320 Meineke) af. Hyg. poet. astr. 2. 1 p. 30, 15 ff. Bunte and af. schol. Caes. 
Germ. Aratea p. 381, 12 ff. Eyssenhardt, cp. Apollod. 3. 8. 2, Ov. met. 2. 425, interp. 
Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 1. 744, Lact. Plac. in Stat. Zed. 3. 685, Myth. Vat. 2. 58), or he 
became Apollon for the nonce (Apollod. 3. 8. 2 Zevs 6é epacOels dxoton cuwvevvatera, 
elxagdels, ws pev evror Néyouow, ’Apréucde, ws dé Error, "Awd\NwML, cp. Tzetz. 7x Lyk. 
Al. 480 ’Apxas 6 Aids 7 ’Amé\Awvos Tats Kal KadNorobs THs Auxdovos Ouvyarpés), or else he 
appeared as a lion (Clem. Rom. fom. 5. 13 (ii. 184 Migne) Kaddcorot rH AuKdovos 
HyptHOn Néwv, kal addov rixrer Apkdda). The first of these metamorphoses is illustrated 
by a silver s¢wzpulum plated here and there with gold, which was found c. 1861 A.D. at 
Cullera near Valencia and is now in the Dutuit collection at Paris (pl. xv=W. Froehner 
Les Musées de France Paris 1873 pp. 2I—23 pl. 5, W. Helbig in the Auvé/. d. Znst. 1865 
pp- 120—122, R. Franz in Roscher Lex. AZ7th. ii. 934 fig., E. Pottier in Daremberg— 
Saglio Dict. Ant. ili. 707 fig. 4230, Reinach Rép. Reliefs ii. 242 nos. 1—3). The vessel 
is shaped like a saucepan (o711™ in diameter with handle o-g™ in length) and inscribed 
on the bottom in lettering of the second half of s. iii A.D. [FJATE @ PAVLINA D-V-s: 
= Fai(a)je Paulina dedit) v(otum) s(olvens)? cp. Corp. inscr. Lat. ii no. 3727. The handle 
has the usual swan-head supports. On it appears Zeus with thunderbolt and sceptre 
beside a flaming altar: above are two garlands; below, an eagle between a pair of 
torches. The relief-frieze, first cast in a mould and then tooled, shows four scenes: 
(az) Zeus as a swan with Leda; (6) Zeus as a man with Semele, while Eros carries off his 
thunderbolt, an ornamented box or case (?) being hung in the background ; (c) Zeus as 
Artemis with Kallisto and Eros between two oak-trees, one of which has beside it a 
pillar supporting a lighted torch; (d@) Zeus as an eagle, dropping his thunderbolt to woo 
Ganymedes, while Eros with his bow escapes towards a third oak-tree. 

1 Clem. Rom. hom. 5. 13 (ii. 184 Migne) “Auadelg 6€ 7H PwKov duowels dpxrw 
cuvevvdtera, Rufin. vecognit. 10. 22 Mantheam Phoci mutatus in ursum, ex qua nascitur 
Arctos. Whether ’Awadéela is a blunder, or MZantheam, or both, we cannot say, since 
the source of the legend is unknown. 


230 + +Pythagoras as Apollon reborn 


these bear-stories’ it is reasonable to infer that Zd/moxis was a 
Thracian appellative of the new-born Zeus. 

Again, Antonius Diogenes in his J/arvels beyond Thoule(s.i. A.D.*) 
had, @ propos of Pythagoras, included a story, which—as Porphyrios 
says*—was by no means to be neglected : 


‘According to Diogenes, Mnesarchos was a Tyrrhenian by race, one of those 
that inhabited Lemnos, Imbros, and Skyros. Starting from thence he visited 
many different states and districts. And once upon a time he found an infant 
laid beneath a white poplar-tree of great size and shapely growth. He stopped 
and saw that the child lying on its back was looking up at the sky, staring 
straight at the sun without ever winking its eyes. It had in its mouth a small 
slender reed like a pipe; and he saw to his surprise that it was nurtured by dew, 
which dropped from the poplar. So, thinking that the child must have been 
born of some divine parentage, he took it up from the ground. The boy grew 
to manhood in Samos and was taken up by the Samian Androkles, who put him 
in charge of his household. Mnesarchos, being quite well-to-do, brought up the 
child under the name of Astraios along with his own three boys Eunostos, 
Tyrrhenos, and Pythagoras the youngest, whom Androkles adopted as his son4.’ 


The fine poplar in a far-off land with a divine infant lying beneath 
it at once recalls the remarkable poplar growing in the mouth 
of the Idaean Cave®, where Zeus was born’,—a spot to which 
Pythagoras made pilgrimage’. Ability to stare straight at the sun 
was characteristic of the eagle* and might well mark an infant Zeus. 
Finally, the name Astratos reminds us that the Cretan Zeus bore 
the title Astérzos®. It is clear therefore that Diogenes wove into his 
romance a neo-Pythagorean account of the Cretan Zeus. 

If so, it would seem that Zalmoxis and Astraios, the two fami- 
liars of Pythagoras, stand respectively for Thrace and Crete, and 
that the sage in representing himself as an avatar of Apollon was 
acting under the influence of the Thracian and Cretan cult of the 
reborn Zeus. Such an influence was not out of place at Delphoi, 
where the earliest priests of Apollon Del/phinios had been Cretans 


1 See further J. J. Bachofen Der Bar in den Religionen des Altertums Basel 1863, 
S. Bochart Hevozoicon ed. E. F. C. Rosenmiiller Lipsiae 1794 ii. 129—149, J. Grimm 
Teutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1883 ii. 667f., E. H. Meyer Ger- 
manische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 103 f., M. Wellmann in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. 
il. 2759—2762, Schrader Reallex. p. 60, S. Reinach Cultes, mythes et religions Paris 1905 
i. 2rf., 51, 55 ff., O. Keller Die antike Tierwelt Leipzig 1909 i. 175—181. 

2 W. Schmid in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2616, W. Christ Geschichte der griecht- 
schen Litteratur® Miinchen 1898 p. 816, Liibker Rea//ex.8 p. 77. 

3 Porph. v. Pyth. to. 

4 Porph. v. Pyth. 10. Ld. 26. 13 adds that Mnesarchos presented Astraios to Pytha- 
goras, who saw to his training. 

5 Supra i. 529. 5 Supra i. 150f., Append. B Crete. 

7 Supra i. 135, 646, 669. 8 Supra i. 104 N. I. 

9 Supra i. 545 ff., 664 n. 3, 733f., 740. 


Zeus at Delphoi 231 


from Knossos! and his most doughty defenders in the middle of the 
fourth century B.C. were the Thrakidai’. 


(v) Zeus at Delphoi. 


The arguments hitherto adduced point towards a conclusion of 
some importance, vzz. that at Delphoi the worship of the sky-father 
(Zeus), the earth-mother (Ge, Themis), and their offspring (Dionysos) 
was anterior to the worship of Apollon, who inherited, so to speak, 
the eagles of Zeus’, the omphaldés of Ge', the tripod® and tomb of 
Dionysos®, — 

A stranger visiting the site might indeed from first impressions 
suppose that here Apollon was all in all. But closer scrutiny would 
soon detect many a trace of the earlier occupants. At the very 
entrance of the town Zeus Polzezis had a precinct adjoining that of 
Athena Proxaga’. Within the temple of Apollon the statues of the 
two Moirai were flanked by Zeus MWozragétes as well as by Apollon 
Motragétes ; and it is likely that the latter was named after the 
former god’. Again, the Delphians had a cult of Zeus Ezvhypnos, 


* Supra p. 189 n. 8. 2 Diod. 161, 24. 3 Supra p. 179 ff. 

4 Supra p. 169 ff. 5 Supra p. 193 ff. 6 Supra p. 218 ff. 

7 A. D. Keramopoullos in the Eg.’ Apx. 1909 p. 269 published a limestone boundary- 
block (?) inscribed A 1 O | T'OAIEQ3, which he had found in 1907 S. or S.E. of 
the large altar at Marmaria just below the’ southern wall of Athena’s precinct. 
A. Frickenhaus in the Ah. Mitth. 1910 xxxv. 243 n. 1 agrees that this inscription must 
be a boundary-stone, infers (26. p. 239 n. 3) that there was an adjoining precinct of Zeus 
Poltevzs, and assigns to it the trophy which the Delphians set up rapa 70 ris IIpovaias 
’AOnvas iepdy (Diod. 11. 14). H. Pomtow, who in the /ahrd. f. class. Philol. 1884 xxx. 
238 ff. had corrected the punctuation of the epigram on this trophy by reading wrauda 7 
aNeEdvdpou mohéuov Kal udprupa vicas | AeApol we oradcav Lavi xapifsueva: | oiv Poly 
mroNlropbov amwcduevor orixa Mrydwv | kat xadkoorégpavoy puoduevoar Téuevos, in Philologus 
1912 1xxi. 73—75 improves it still further by accepting F. W. Schneidewin’s comma at 
the end of the first distich, reads the boundary-stone as Al1OZ | POAIEOS, and 
states that (in 1909?) he had arrived independently at the results obtained by Fricken- 
haus. For plans see Ath. Mitth. 1910 xxxv. 243 fig. 4 and col. pl. 13. 

8 Paus. 10. 24. 4 év 6€ TW vaw... Eornke 5é Kal ayd\uata Moipdy dvo0* davrtl dé ad’ray ris 
tpirns Levis tre Motpayérns kai “Ard\\wy odiat wapécrnKxe Moipayérns. The title, which 
is used here only of Apollon (see D. Bassi Apollo ‘ Mowragetes’ Torino—Roma. 1895), 
occurs elsewhere of Zeus: (a) inscription from the akrdpolzs at Athens (Corp. inscr. Att. 
ino. 93, 1off.=J. v. Prott and L. Ziehen Leges Graecorum sacrae ii no. 14, 10 ff. [rd ]5e ho 
*Amd\Nwy Experey [Pvduma IHpayorepyldacs] | [dulprevvdoow tov wémdov [rev Beov Kal 
mpobtvocw] | [Mot]pas Av’ Mopayérer y -—-—); (4) altar in the hippodrome at Olympia 
(Paus. 5. 15. 5 dovre 6€ éml thy ddeow Tay immu ~oTr Bwuds, éwiypaypa dé éx’ atte 
Motpayéra * Sf\a ody eotw erixAnow ecivar Aids ds Ta avOpwruv older, boa Sidbacw ai 
Motpac kal dca wh wémpwral sgior. mAnyolov 6é Kai Mowpdv Buds eorw émiurjxns, wera 
6é abrov ‘Epuod cal dto épeéjs Avds ‘Twiorov (K. Wernicke cj. do épeéjs “Epuod xal 
Avés ‘Tyiorov)); (c) relief in the precinct of Despoina near Akakesion in Arkadia 
(Paus. 8. 37. 1 lévrwy dé él rov vadv arod Té eorw év Seka Kal év TH Tolxw NiBov NevKod 
Timo. memonpéevor, kal TH wév elow érecpyacuévat Moipar kal Zebs émlx\now Morpayérns, 


ye: Zeus at Delphoi 


‘Giver of Good Sleep!’: the title presupposes the custom of in- 
cubation’, as practised eg. in the cult of Zeus Amphidraos near 
Oropos’, and is doubtless of ancient date’. The Aetolian League 


devrépw d€ ‘Hpaxjjs rplaroda ’Aré\\wva adaipotuevos). It seems probable therefore that 
Apollon took the title from Zeus, who in turn may 
have derived it from the Idaean Daktyloi (Ap. 
Rhod. 1. 1126 ff. Tirinv @ apa Kiddnvov te, | of 
bodve. mokéwy poipnyérar oe mapedpor | wnrépos 
"Tdains kexjarar booo éacw | Adxrudot Idato. Kpy- 
ravées with schol. ad doc. and K. Tiimpel in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. ii. 3103 f.). Later the term was gener- 
alised (Alkiphr. 1. 20 @ poipator Beol kal worparyérat 
daiuoves, Iambl. de fato p. 79, 1 ff. rh obv; oldv re 
€oTe Oia TOV ToNevdvTwy Hedy Abew EavTov Kal Tods 
avrovs nyetoOar poipynyéras Kal decpots advrots Tovs 
Bious decuevovras; Hermeias 27 Plat. Phaedr. p. 96, 
14 f. Couvreur 77s mpovolas étnpnucyws xal Tis Oeias 
6é picews Kal Tey poipnyeTav (worpnyever@y codd.) 
GeGy cuvdtat\eKovTwy mavra év Tage Kal Kara dikny, 
23 ol wévror poipynyéra (woipnyevérac codd.) @eol 
Fig. 160. k.t.., Prokl. zz Plat. Adctb. 24 p. 77 Creuzer ras 77s 
ciuapuévys ddces Kal TOV moipyyeTav (so F. Creuzer 
or codd. poipnyeveTa@v, mowpnver@r)). 

L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1881 p. 118 f. Atlas pl. 5, 18 (reproduced to 
a scale of 2? in my fig. 160) contends that an engraved chalcedony of Roman date, now in 
the Hermitage Museum at Petrograd, represents Zeus J/oiragétes seated on a throne with 
an eagle at his feet, a sceptre in his raised left hand and the three Moirai on his out- 
stretched right hand. Stephani admits that the little figures might be Horai (cp. 
F. Creuzer Symbolik und Mythologie* Leipzig and Darmstadt 1841 ili. 97) or Charites, 
but rules out the former as being less significant in relation to Zeus than the Moirai, and 
the latter as being normally undraped in late art. The three small females are certainly 
draped, and one of them has ‘ein kleines beutelartiges und nicht genauer zu bestimmendes 
Attribut in die Hand.’ But I confess, I should not accept Stephani’s identification. I 
regard them as Charites, draped just because they are of a product of late art, but have 
been transferred to Zeus from the famous statue of Apollon at Delos by the archaic 
sculptors Tektaios and Angelion (Plout. de mus. 14 quoted infra 
§ 3 (a) iii (x), Paus. 2. 32. 5, 9. 35. 3, Athenag. supplicatio pro 
Christianis 17 p. 19 Schwartz; Overbeck Gr. AKunstmyth. Apollon 
p- U7 ff. fig. 4 Miinztaf. 1, 17—20, Imhoof-Blumer and P. Gardner 
Num. Comm. Paus. iii. 144 pl. CC, 11-—14, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins 
: Attica etc. p. 72f. pl. 11, 8, p. 82 pl. 14, 9, Muster Cat. Coins ii. 
Fig. 161. 73, Head Hist. num.” p. 383, P. Gardner Zypes of Gk. Coins p. 8rf. 
pl. 15, 29. Fig. 161 is from a copper coin of Athens in my collection). 

1 Hesych. Eiumvos: 6 Leds [7H xadds tarvos] mapa Aedgots. 
2 Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1109 n. 5 (cp. td. 2b. p. 932 n. 3) refers the title to a 








‘ Traumorakel.’ Other evidence of incubation at Delphoi is considered by Rohde Psyche?® 
ii. 58n. 1 and L. Deubner De zzcubatione Lipsiae 1900 p. 52 n. 2: neither of these 
scholars has, however, seen the relevancy of Zeus Azhypnos. 

3 Supra i. 407 n. 4. For Amphiaraos as Zeus see zzfra Append. J. 

4 It recalls the sound sleep of Trophonios and Agamedes at Delphoi (sara i. 450). 
Incubation was in all probability practised in the cult of Trophonios at Lebadeia 
(L. Deubner De zncudbatione Lipsiae 1900 p. 8n. 2, Miss M. Hamilton Zrcubatéon London 
1906 p. 88 ff.). J. Viirtheim ‘De Eugammonis Cyrenaei Telegonia’ in AZzemosyne N.S. 


Dionysos at Delphoi 249 


commemorated the defeat of the Gauls near Delphoi (279—278 B.C.) 
by establishing a festival to be called Soteria in honour of Zeus 
Sotér and Apollon Pythios'. But A. Mommsen’s notion that the 
ordinary Pythian rites were performed for the J/ozragétaz, Zeus as 
well as Apollon’, is an unsupported conjecture*. On the other hand, 
importance must be attached to the fact that at the feast Boukatia‘ 
in the month Boukatios (=the Attic Metageitnion)® the Delphic 
phratry of the Labyadai sacrificed not only to Apollon but also to 
Zeus Patréios’, a god by whom they swore’. 


(@) Dionysos at Delphoi. 


But if Zeus left his mark on Delphoi, so did Dionysos. Plutarch 
in an interesting section of his treatise Ox the Delphic E* writes as 
follows : 


‘If, then, any one ask what all this has to do with Apollon, we shall declare 
that it concerns not him alone but also Dionysos, who is partner on equal terms 
with Apollon at Delphoi. The theologians, now in verse, now in prose, sing or 


IQOI xxix. 23 ff. argues that Klymenos, Trophonios, and Agamedes were all hypostases of 
a chthonian god, the Zeus (or Hermes) of Lebadeia. AZjmenos, like Pertkljmenos 
(Hesych. s.v.), was an appellative of Plouton (R. Engelmann in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 
1228f.). Zeus Trophénios or Trephdénios was the full name of the Lebadean divinity 
(tnfra Append. K). Agamédes was a possible title for Zeus (cp. swfra i. 14n. 1). 

1 Corp. inscr. Alt. ii. 1 no. 323= Michel Recueil a’ Inscr. gr. no. 128= Dittenberger 
Syll. tnscr. Gr.? no. 205. 

2 A. Mommsen De/phika Leipzig 1878 pp. 170, 224. 

3 Rashly accepted by H. Pomtow in Phzlologus 1912 Ixxi. 45. 

4 Bovxaria, derived by A. Boeckh dé rod kaiverOar Bods (Corp. inscr. Gr. i. 733), Was 
tantamount in meaning to Bouvgddma. 

> J. W. Kubitschek in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 994, H. van Herwerden 
Lexicon Graecum suppletorium et dialecticum® Lugduni Batavorum 1910 i. 284. 

6 T. Homolle in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1895 xix. 5 ff. D 45 ff.=J. Baunack in Collitz— 
Bechtel Gr. Dial.-/mschr. ii. 718 ff. no. 2561 D 45 ff. = Michel Recuezl d’Inscr. gr. 
no. 995 D 45 ff.=Dittenberger Sy//. inscr. Gr.? no. 438 ad 210ff.=J. v. Prott and 
L. Ziehen Leges Graecorum sacrae ii. 217 ff. no. 74 D 45 ff.=F. Solmsen Jnscriptiones 
Graecae ad tnlustrandas dialectos selectae Lipsiae 1905 no. 36 D 45 ff. Bovcariors | rau Al 
Tarpauwt Kal THr|d\\wve Tay akpdOwa, Kall cuwmpytoxey (B. Keil in Hermes 1896 xxxi. 
509 f. treats this verb as an iterative form of miumpnu ‘zusammen verbrennen,’ and so 
Baunack and Dittenberger ad Joc. But Fournier in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1898 xxii. 271 
reads ouumuricxevy, which is accepted by Michel, Ziehen, and Solmsen) dame? rolds 
AaBuadas. 

7 Their oaths were: (2) A 14f. rol rod Adds Tod marpaov 

(6) B 12 ff. rol ro ’AméAXw[y]\os Kal Too ILoredadvos | Tod Ppatplou 
kai Tod Altds marpaxou 
(c) c1ff. [rol rod "AdAXwvos lal Ioredavos rod dpjat[pliov Kal 
Atos] 
Dittenberger /oc. cz¢. ii. 26 n. 3 justly infers that the Labyadai were a phratry (dparpia), 
not a clan (warpid), and notes that the cult of Zeus Patréios was appropriate to any 
community bound together by ties of kindred and affinity. 

8 Plout. de E apud Delphos 9. 1 have followed throughout the text of W. R. Paton 

(Berolini 1893). 


234 Dionysos at Delphoi 


say to us that God, who by nature is imperishable and everlasting, yet owing to 
a certain necessity inherent in mind and reason undergoes transformation, and 
sometimes kindles his nature to a fire thereby reducing all things to a state of 
uniformity, sometimes becomes manifold in shapes and in diverse passions and 
powers thereby producing an orderly universe, as at present, and winning for 
himself the name that is famous above every name!. Our wiseacres keep this 
knowledge from the populace, and call his transformation into fire Apollon by 
reason of its unity? or Phoibos by reason of its pure and unpolluted character ; 
but as to his turning into wind, water, earth, stars, births of plants and animals, 
and his ordering of the universe in general, they hint at his suffering and trans- 
formation by speaking of a certain rending-asunder and dismemberment : they 
call him Dionysos, Zagreus, Vyk¢élios, Isodaz¢tes, and recount certain destruc- 
tions and disappearances followed by rebirths and resurrections—mystifying and 
mythical phrases that suit the transformations I have mentioned’. Again, to 
the one god they sing dithyrambic songs full of passions and of a transformation 
that involves a certain wandering and scattering : as Aischylos puts it— 


’Tis meet the dithyramb of mingled cry 
With Dionysos should go revelling by*. 


To the other god they sing a paean, an orderly and discreet form of composition. 
Painters and sculptors always represent him as free from old age and youthful, 
his partner as taking on a variety of forms and shapes. Generally speaking, 
they ascribe to the former similarity, order, pure seriousness, to the latter ups 
and downs of sport and violence, seriousness'and madness, invoking him as— 
‘Lord of the Loud Cry, Waker of Women, Dionysos flowering forth with 
frenzied rites®.’ In fact they have seized aright the true nature of both trans- 
formations. But inasmuch as the periods of time allowed for these transforma- 
tions are unequal, the former period which they call “satiety” having the longer 
duration, the latter period of “need” the shorter®, they are careful to observe 


1 Sc. debs, as Paton points out, dro rijs Oécews=diaxocunoews, cp. Cornut. ¢heol. 1 
p- 3, tf. Lang raya & ay elev eol Oerfpes kal wornral Trav ywoudevwy. So Hdt. 2. 52, et. 
mag. p. 445, 48 ff.=Choirobosk. 7 psal. p. 99g, 1 ff. 

2 Améd\dwy is here derived from a+odvs—a favourite whimsy (Chrysippos a. 
Macrob. Sa¢. 1. 17. 7, Plout. de E apud Delphos 20, de Ts. et Os. 10, 76, Clem. Al. 
strom. 1. 24 p. 103, 3f. Stahlin, Plotin. ez. 5. 5. 6 p. 213, 20ff. Volkmann, Hesych. 
5.v. "Amébd\dwv, Lyd. de mens. 2. 4 p. 21, 18 ff. Wiinsch, Cramer anecad. Paris. i. 315, 
34 ff., v. Plat. p. 8 ed. A. H. L. Heeren in the Bibliothek der alten Litteratur und 
Kunst Gottingen 1789 Stiick v). 

3 ris & els mvedud te (codd. rvevuara corr. Meziriac) kai téwp Kal yqv Kai dorpa Kal 
puTav (gw Te yevécers Tporis alto kal dvaxocuncews Td wev TéOnUa Kal Thy meTaBodhv 
diag mac woy Twa Kal duawedomov alvirrovrar: Ardvucov dé kat ZLarypéa cat Nuxrédcov Kai 
Ioodairny avrov dvoudfgover, kal Pbopds Twas Kal ddavicuods elra 5’ (so Stegmann for oi ras 
V1. of ras D. B. Pal. A. Pet. of ras F. V*. E. Vat.) dvaBudsoes (so Stegmann with Amyot 
for codd. dmroBidces) Kai madvyyevecias, oixeia Tats elpnuévars weTraBorais alviywara Kat 
MvGedpara mepatvovat. 

4 Aisch. frag. 355 Nauck? méoBbav mpére | diOvpayBov ouapretv | otyKwuov (so 
T. Tyrwhitt for cvyxovov Vat. Pet. cv-yyovov E. avyxowor cett.) Avovtow. 

> Frag. adesp. 131 Bergk4 af. Plout. symp. 4. 6. 1 dpa, pn, od rev marpudbrny Oeby, 
Aaumpia, ‘“‘etiov dpovyivaca, mawouévas avOgovTa Timaior Aidvucov” éyypddes Kai 
bmomote’s Tots ‘EBpalwy dmoppyras; cp. id. de exil. 17 (Avdvucov pmawouévars avOéovra 
tiuais), de E apud Delphos 9 (uwawouevars Arévucov dvOéovra Timats). 

6 Herakl. frag. 24 Bywater, 65 Diels. 


Dionysos at Delphoi 235 


the same proportion, and here employ the paean for their sacrifices throughout 
the greater part of the year; but, when winter begins, they stir up the dithyramb 
and stop the paean, calling for three months together upon the second god in 
place of the first!. They take it that, as three is to one in point of nature, so in 
point of time is the formation of the universe to its conflagration.’ 


The whole passage is obviously redolent of Greek philosophy. 
Herakleitos, Pythagoras, Platon, the Stoics have contributed their 
several quotas. But discounting all these philosophical elements 

















ANTHESTERION Buowos 

: 7 
7 - ph Bins 

~~ ELAPHEBOLION Oco€evios A ine eae SOS 
Be i 
P= so 

MOUNICHION *Evdve roirpor.os 

THARGELION “HpakXetos 

SKIROPHORION *I\atos 





HEKATOMBAION | ’AreAXaios Labyadai sacrifice to 

















SUMMER, 
—__—__—_  -————- OO COC OO“ aor = 














Dionysos 
Labyadai sacrifice to 
METAGEITNION Bovkaruos Zeus Patréios 
(Boukatia) 
E BOEDROMION | Boaédos 
2) 
fH 
=) PYANOPSION | “Hpatos 
<q | 
MAIMAKTERION Aadaddpuos 
= 
2 POSEIDEON Ilowrporwos | Brumal rites of 
pat { , Dionysos 
GAMELION | 7Apddcos 
Fig. 162. 


we have yet a residuum of popular religion that is well deserving 
of attention. It appears that at Delphoi Dionysos was admittedly 
no less essential than Apollon, whom he actually dispossessed for 

1 ro Kata Nbyov TypodyTes évTalOa Tov wev GdXoy éviavToy maLave xp@vTaL Tepi Tas Ovolas, 


dpxouévouv dé xeiudvos émeyelpaytes Tov SiOUpauBov Tov dé maidva KaTamavoayTes, Tpels 
Mijas av’ éxelvou TovTov Karaxadodvra (dvakadodvrar B.V*.) tov Oedv. 


236 Dionysos at Delphoi 


three months out of the twelve. Our recently-acquired knowledge 
of the Delphic calendar (fig. 162)! enables us to be more precise. 
The winter months Daidaphorios, Poitropios, and Amalios together 
constituted the season of Dionysos. The Locrians, near neighbours 
of the Delphians, called the second of these months not Poitropios 
but Dionysios?, while the Dorian inhabitants of Chalkis, Byzantion, 
and Chersonnesos spoke of the following month as Dionysios instead 
of Amalios*. A comparison with the Attic calendar‘ will show that 
in Attike too the second and third winter months were marked 
by important Dionysiac festivals, the Rural Dionysia falling in 
Poseideon, the Lenaia in Gamelion. But if at Delphoi winter was 
reserved for Dionysos, the rest of the year belonged to Apollon. 
Spring came in with the month Bysios, the seventh day of which 
was kept as Apollon’s birthday®. In early times—if Kallisthenes 


1 F, Hiller von Gaertringen in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iv. 2532. Jd. 2b. 2531 
cites earlier literature, but omits the monograph of C. Petersen Der Delphische Festcyclus 
des Apollon und des Dionysos Hamburg 1859. See also W. Larfeld Handbuch der 
griechischen Epigraphik Leipzig 1907 i. 300 (bibliography), 302 (calendar), Liibker 
Reallex.® pp. 1135 (calendar), 1136 (bibliography). 

* Larfeld of. cit. p. 302 Acovtiaros (Away ?). de (LP one tee 4 Supra i. 691. 

® Apollon was variously connected with the number seven, as has been shown in detail 
by W. H. Roscher ‘ Die Heiligkeit der Siebenzahl im Kultus und Mythus des Apollon’ 
in Philologus 190t |x. 360—368, id. Die enneadischen und hebdomadischen Fristen und 
Wochen der altesten Griechen (Abh. d. stichs. Gesellsch. ad. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1903 
xxi. 4) Leipzig 1903 pp. 49f., 67 n. 196, 2d. Die Sieben- und Neunzahl im Kultus und 
Mythus der Griechen (Abh. d. stichs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1904 xxiv. 1) 
Leipzig 1904 pp. 4—19, 23, 29 n. 65 b, 68f., 107, zd. Die Hebdomadenlehren der 
griechischen Philosophen und Arzte (Abh. d. sachs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 
1906 xxiv. 6) Leipzig 1906 pp. 7, 21 ff., 178f., 210—214, 219 n. 303, id. Enneadische 
Studien (Abh. ad. sachs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss, Phil.-hist. Classe 1907 xxvi. 1) Leipzig 1907 
pp. I—170, zd. Uber Alter, Ursprung und Bedeutung der hippokratischen Schrift von der 
Stebenzahl (Abh. d. stchs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1911 xxviii. 5) Leipzig 
IgI1I pp. I—154. Roscher’s investigations are valuable on account of the enormous mass of 
evidence that he has digested. But his main contentions ((2) The sidereal or lunar month 
of 27—28 days was in Boiotia, Euboia, etc. divided into 4 weeks of 7 days—a division which 
gave rise to periods of 7 months, 7 years, 7 generations, sevenfold offerings, rites, choruses, 
groups of 7 gods, heroes, etc. (4) The sidereal or lunar month of 2728 days was later, in 
epic times, divided into 3 weeks of 9 days—a system which in myth and cult transformed 
many of the older hebdomads into enneads, besides producing a fresh crop of the latter. 
(c) But this second arrangement soon gave place to a third. The synodical month of 
29—30 days was divided into 3 periods of ro days. (d@) The numerical speculation of 
Orphists and Pythagoreans is traced to early Ionic hylozoism of s. vi and s. vii B.c., and 
is found to rest upon beliefs of a primitive character. The same holds good with regard 
to the ancient medical teaching of critical days, months, and years) are open to dispute : 
see especially the objections raised by Gruppe AZyth. Lit. 1908 pp. 362—367. On the 
whole it must be admitted that as yet no single or simple explanation of the sanctity 
attaching to the number seven has béen reached. Further discussion by H. Diels ‘ Ein 
orphischer Demeterhymnus’ in the Festschrift Theodor Gomperz dargebracht zum siebzig- 
sten Geburtstage Wien 1902 p. 8 ff., F. von Andrian ‘ Die Siebenzahl im Geistesleben der 
Volker’ in the AZittetlungen der Anthropologischen Gesellschaft in Wien 1901 xxxi. 225 ff., 


Dionysos at Delphoi 227 


J. Loth in the Revue celtigue 1904 xxv» 113 ff., M. P. Nilsson ‘Die alteste griechische 
Zeitrechnung, Apollo und der Orient’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1911 xiv. 423 ff., 2d@. Primitive 
Time-reckoning Lund 1920 p. 329 ff., F. Boll in Pauly—Wissowa Real- Enc. vii. AAT 
2578, S. Eitrem 2. vii. 2579. Infra § 3 (a) vi (A). 

The principal data concerning Apollon are as follows. Like Dionysos (Loukian. dad. 
deor. 9. 2, Cornut. theol. 2 cod. G p. xiv Lang, cp. Arnob. adv. nat. 3. 10), he passed 
as being a seven-months’ child (schol. Pind. Pyi. argum. 1, schol. Kallim. 4. De/. 251, 
cp. Arnob. adv. nat. 3. 10). At Sparta on the first and seventh days of every month the 
kings sacrificed to Apollon (Hdt. 6. 57, cp. Roscher Die Hebdomadenlehren etc. p. 211 f.). 
At Athens the first and seventh days of every month were sacred to Apollon (schol, 
Aristoph /P/ouz, 1126). At Miletos the guild of singers (uodzot), who worshipped Apollon 
Ae\¢divios, had a festival called ’EBdouata in the month Boedromion (?) or Pyanepsion (?) 
(A. Rehm in Jet iii. 235, 277 ff. inscr. no. 133, 6, 21 ff., U. von Wilamowitz-Moellen- 
_ dorff in the Sz¢zungsber. d. Akad. d. Wiss. Berlin 1904 pp. 622, 626, F. Bechtel in Collitz— 
Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Jnschr. iii. 2. 627 ff. no. 5495, Nilsson Gr. Feste p. 170 f., S. Eitrem in 
Pauly—Wissowa “eal- Enc. vii. 2579) : Boedromion 7 would correspond with the date of 
the Apolline Boedromia (Mommsen este d. Stadt Athen p. 176f., E. Saglio in Darem- 
berg—Saglio Dict. Antz. i. 713 f., P. Stengel in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Luc. iii. 594 f.), 
Pyanepsion 7 with that of the Apolline Pyanopsia or Pyanepsia at Athens (Mommsen 
Feste d. Stadt Athen p. 278 ff., E. Cahen in Daremberg—Saglio Dect. Ant. iv. 781). It 
is probable too that sacrifices were offered to Apollon on the seventh day of the month at 
Kroton (Timaios ag. Athen. 522¢ with Roscher Dze Hebdomadenilehren etc. p. 24 n. 31). 
In Boiotia (?) the seventh day of the month was sacred, for on it Leto had borne Apollon 
(Hes. 0. d. 770 f., cp. Aristoboulos af. Clem. Al. strom. 5. 14 p- 397, 20 ff. Stahlin and 
ap. Euseb. praep. ev. 13. 12. 13, Prokl. 2 Plat. 77m. ii. 197, 28 ff. Diehl). At Delphoi 
Apollon’s birthday was Bysios 7 (Plout. guaestt. Gr. 9), in Delos Thargelion 7 (Diog. 
Laert. 3. 2). At Athens the Apolline festival of the Thargelia was held on Thargelion 7 
(Mommsen Feste d. Stadt Athen p. 469), and Platon, whose birthday fell on that day 
(Plout. symp. 8. 1. 1f.), was regarded as the son of Apollon (Mommsen af. cét. p. 469 
n. 3 even says ‘einen inkarnierten Apoll’); at least it was said that Ariston, warned by a 
vision of Apollon, had abstained from his wife Periktione till on Thargelion 7 she gave 
birth to Platon (Plout. symp. 8. 1. 2; Speusippos, Klearchos frag. 43 (Prag. hist. Gre ii. 
316 Miiller), and Anaxilaides (E. Schwartz in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2083 
suggests Anaxilaos of Larissa) af. Diog. Laert. 3. 2 and af. Hieron. c. Jovinian. 1. 42 (xxiii. 
273 A—B Migne)). Similarly at Kyrene Karneades was born during the Apolline Karneia 
on the seventh day of the month (Plout. symp. 8. 1. 2). Apollon himself was entitled 
“EBdopuaryer7js (Plout. symp. 8. 1. 2 Kal Tov Oedv ws rabry yevouevoy tpets, elev, ol mpophrat 
kai of lepeis ‘EBdouayévny (J. J. Reiske ex edd. Ald. et Bas. €Bdouayévy corr. éBdouayer9) 
kaNetre) and ‘EBdouetos (Corp. inscr. Alt. ii. 3 no. 1653 an inscription of s. iv (?) from 
Keratia in Attike [iJepov | [’A]ré\X\wvos | “EBdoueto | dparplas | ’AxviadGv= Michel Recueil 
@Inscr. gr. no. 749=Dittenberger Sy//. imscr. Gr.” no. 441). On the seventh day of 
some month he had at Athens a sacrifice called éBdouatov (E. Ziebarth in the Ath. Mitch. 
1898 xxiil. 24 ff. no. r=J.v. Prott and L. Ziehen Leges Graecorum sacrae ii no. 16a, 7 ff. 
[é]Bddune iorapévo | és EBdopuator | ols Nevro|yvduwr | WvOaor[al]is Avjwv.aus - — ). His 
name €Bdouayérns (Aisch. s.c. Zh. 800 f. with schol. ad /oc., Prokl. iz Plat. Zim. ii. 197, 
30 f. Diehl) may be compared with his other appellatives "Apynyérns, xuvnyérns, Moipa- 
yérns, Movenyéerns, Nuupnyérns, Iponyérns (Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1703 f.): doubtless 
we have here, as A. W. Verrall ad /oc. observed, ‘an example of that curious verbal 
ingenuity which plays so marked a part in the religious and prophetic mysteries of 
Aeschylus’; but the poet is, I fancy, giving a new meaning to an old cult-title, for the 
Muses were sometimes conceived as being seven in number (Epicharm. frag. 41 Kaibel 
ap. Tzetz. 7 Hes. o. d. 6, Cramer anecd. Oxon. iv. 425, 3 ff., Myrsilos frag. 4 (Frag. hést. 
Gr. iv. 457 f.) ap. Clem. Al. protr. 2. 31. 1—4 p. 23, 8 ff. Stahlin and ag. Arnob. adv. 
nat. 3. 37 cp. 4. 24, Cornut. ¢heol. 14 p. 15, 2, 8f. Lang: see also Roscher Die Sieben- 
und Neunzahl etc. pp. 19, 35f.) so that éBdouayérns may denote ‘leader of the sevenfold 


238 Dionysos .at Delphoi 


and Anaxandrides may be trusted—this was the one day in the 
year on which the Pythia gave responses!. Later, Apollon was 
more frequently ‘at home?’: indeed his period of residence extended 
from Bysios the first month of spring to Heraios the last month of 
autumn. Then with the advent of winter there recommenced the 
rule of Dionysos. _ 

How is this Box-and-Cox arrangement of the Delphic year to 
be explained? We must @ priorz recognise two possibilities. Either 
Dionysos has intruded on Apollon, or Apollon has intruded on 
Dionysos. The former is the view held by the majority of modern 
critics*: the latter was the opinion of certain scholars in antiquity’ 


choir,’ cp. Aisch. s.c. Zh. 117 ff. éwra & ayjvopes mpérovtes atpatod | dopvccbas caryais 
midas €Bdducs (=érrd) | rpoclaravro, Anth. Pal. 2. 380 (Christodoros) évdras (= évvéa) 
avednxato Movcats, //. 8. 404 és dexdrous (=déxa) repire\Nomévous éviavrovs, where the text 
need not be tinkered. Dionysos ‘EBdouets (Juscr. Gr. ins. ii no. 123 on a round base 
of s. ii A.D. from Mytilene [AcJoviow | “EBdouet. | Tals (?‘Pals) dvé@exlxev evxyv) appears 
to be analogous to Apollon ‘E®douetos (Roscher Die Szeben- und Neunzahi etc. pp. 22 ff., 
69, 7a. Die Hebdomadenlehren etc. p. 215) rather than modelled upon him (W. Quandt De 
Baccho ab Alexandri aetate in Asia Minore culto Halis Saxonum 1913 pp. 139, 141 0. I). 

Roscher Dze Steben- und Neunzahl etc. pp. 29, 116 thinks that the Apolline seven 
made its way into the cult of Zeus, citing the seven officials charged with the duty of 
setting up a tripod for the Boeotian Zeus ’Edevdépios (Zuscr. Gr. sept. i no. 1672 =Collitz— 
Bechtel Gr. Déal.-/nschr. i. 271 no. 865 Plataiai Bowrol Ad ’Edevdeplo. tov [rplroda] | 
Kara Tav pwavtelay TH Amba vos], | k.7.., cp. i no. 1673=i. 271 no. 864, i no. 1674= 
i. 272 no. 866, and the similar dedications at Thespiai to the Muse (i no. 1795=i. 403 
no. 8072), at Akraiphia to Apollon IIrwios (i no. 2723 =i. 213f. no. 570, ino. 2724=i. 
214 nO. 571, i nos. 2724a—e), at Orchomenos to the Charites (i no. 3207=i. 190 f. no. 
494). These inscriptions all bore the names of seven dgedprarevdvtwy (?=ddidpvdvTwr), 
except one from Akraiphia (i no. 2724 b) which has eight), and comparing the seven cakes 
offered to Zeus Ilo\eds in Kos (J. de Prott Leges Graecorum sacrae Lipsiae 1896 Fasti 
sacri p. 19 ff. no. 5, 28 ff.=Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Znschr. iii. 357 ff. no. 3636, 28 ff. 
=Michel Recuedl d’Jnscr. gr. no. 716, 28 ff.= Dittenberger Sy//. inscr. Gr.? no. 616, 28 ff. 
rovrw dé [éA]dvr[w mlap]a Tay ‘Ioriay rav raplay Kal 6 [rod Znvos ilepeds (W. R. Paton 
restores 6 [IloAcijos ilepevs) oré(r)rer kal | [€x]owévder Kvdcxa olvov Kexpapévov [m]pd Tod 
[B06]s* erecta dyovre ro[m | Boliv Kai roy Kavrov Kai [P]Odias émra Kai wéd Kal oréupa* 
k.T.A, in a ritual calendar for the Coan month Batromios (=the Attic Poseideon) dating 
from ¢. 300 B.C.). He might have added the seven stars surrounding Zeus Kpnrayev7s 
(seepra i. 51f. figs. 27 f., 149 n. 1 fig. 115, 547f. figs. 415—418, cp. 276 n. 5, 754 n. 2). 
But in none of these cases have we any real reason to suspect the influence of Apollon. 

1 Kallisthenes frag. 4 (Script. hist. Alex. Mag. p- 12 Miiller) and Alexandrides frag. 
6 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 107 Miiller) a. Plout. guaestt. Gr. g. The name of the second 
author, a Delphian by birth, should be Anaxandridas (L. Weniger De Anaxandrida 
Polemone Hegesandro rerum Delphicarum scriptoribus Berolini 1865 p. 7 ff.) or Anaxan- 
drides (E. Schwartz in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2079 f.). 

2 On the drodnula: and the érdnutac of the Delphic Apollon see W. H. Roscher Zex. 
Myth. i. 426. 

* £.g. O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. v. 1017 f. (after Rohde Psyche® ii. 
52 ff.), Farnell Cults of Gk. States v. 112. See, however, F. Lenormant in Daremberg— 
Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 593, F. A. Voigt in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 1032 ff., G. E. Marindin 
in Smith—Marindin C/ass. Dict. p. 295, who all support the priority of Dionysos. 

* Schol. Pind. Pyth. argum. 1 elra epxerar (sc. "AmO\Awr) Eri TO wavTeiov, ev  TPwTH 


Dionysos at Delphoi 239 


I have, however, already! given reasons for thinking that at Delphoi 
Apollon was preceded, not only 
by the sky-father (Zeus) and 
the earth-mother (Ge, Themis), 
-but also by their Thraco- 
Phrygian offspring (Dionysos). 
The little chapel in the Pythian 
temple (fig. 163)*, the holiest 
spot in all Hellas, contained 
the tokens of these three dei- 
ties—the eagles of Zeus, the 
omphalds of Ge, and the tomb 
of Dionysos*. Will it be seri- 
ously maintained that the tomb 
with its crude myth of rent 
limbs and boiling caldron‘ was 
a foreign element which had 
thrust itself into this august 
company at a comparatively 
recent date? Rather it had 
been there—I will not say, 
from the beginning, but at least 
from time immemorial. The 












our les Consultants 




















real usurper was Apollon, a ie es 
though even he had made good s @ Ps 2m 3m 


: - ; Fig. 163. 

his footing before the epic age’®. are 
There are certain calendrical considerations which tend to con- 
firm the foregoing sequence of cults. At intervals of eight years 


NvE éxpnou@dncer, etra O€uis. IvOwvos dé rére KupievaavTos Tod mpodytiKod Tplrodos, év 
@ mp@ros Arévucos éOeularevoe, <? Kal kwdUovTos a’tov mapehOely eri 7d xdoma, Tokever> 
Kal droxteivas Tov opw Tov WWOwva dywvriferar tov Iv@cxov ayava kara éBddunv juépay 
(A. B. Drachmann cj. érra pépn)* metpov (sic codd. metpay ed. Rom. 1515) mév, bre 
amemepdbn THs udxns THs mpds TO Onplov* tauBov dé did Thy Novdoplay Thy yevouévny adr@ 
Tpo TAS Maxns, NéyeTar yap lauBlfew 7d Novdopety* SdxTvAov Sé dro <? Tv ’ldaiwy Aaxridwy 
Aceon danas * PBaxxeiov 6€ drd> Aovicov, OTe mpGros ovTos SoKel amd Tplirobos Oemoredon * 
Kpnrixov d€ ard Acés* untp@ov 6€, dre Djs To mavretby éore* ovpryya dé dia TOv TOU dpews 
cuprypov. orw wey ovv KatéoTn mp@rov 6 Tay IlvGiwy dydév. The scholiast is distinguish- 
ing seven parts of the véuos IvOcxés, vzz. metpa, lauBor, Sdxtvdol, <? Baxxetou>, Kpyrixol, 
Lntp@ov, otpyrywa. Other writers enumerate five: thus Strab. 421 mévte 5 adroit pépy 
éorly, dyxpovots, duteipa (cp. Hesych. s.v. dvdmecpa), Karaxehevopds, lauBor kal ddKrvAoL, 
cbpvyyes, and Poll. 4. 84 To0 dé IvAcxod véuou rob av\ynriKxod wépn TévTe, wetipa, KaTaKehevo- 
wos, lauBixdv, omovdeiov, Kataxdpevats. K.T-d. 

1 Supra p. 231. 

2 Reduced from the diagram given by F. Courby in the Fowelles de Delphes ii. 1. 69 
fig. 61. Supra p. 221 n. 2. 

8 Supra p. 231nn. 3, 4,6. * Suprap. 218 f. 5 Supra pp. 180 n. 1, 189 n. 8. 


240 Dionysos at Delphoi 


the Delphians held a series of three solemnities called the Step- 
terion, the Herois, and the Charila1. Again, the Pythian games 
were originally celebrated once in eight years*. And at the close 
of the second century B.c. Delian priests and Attic magistrates 
were sending first-fruits to Apollon Pythzos in accordance with an 
eight-year period’. The same space of time is doubtless presupposed 
by the myth which told how Apollon served Admetos‘ for one 
year® or nine® or ten’. Indeed, an epic poet cited by Plutarch* and 


1 T have discussed these festivals in Fo/k-Lore 1904 xv. 402 ff. See also Nilsson G7 
Feste pp. 150 ff., 286ff., 466f., J. E. Harrison 7hemzs Cambridge 1912 p. 415 ff., 
H. Usener ‘Heilige Handlung’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1904 vii. 317 ff. (=2d. K7eine 
Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 1913 iv. 450 ff.) (Stepterion), zd. ‘Italische Mythen’ in the 
Rhein. Mus. 1875 xxx. 203f. (=zd. Kleine Schriften iv. 116 f.) (Charila), Farnell Cz/ts 
of Gk. States iv. 293 ff. (Stepterion), Frazer Pazsanzas iii. 53 ff. (Stepterion), zd. Golden 
Bough*: The Dying God p. 78 ff. (Stepterion), P. Stengel in Pauly—Wissowa Xeal- 
Enc. viii. 992 (Herois), O. Kern 20. iii. 2141 (Charila). 

* Demetrios of Phaleron af. schol. Od. 3. 267 and ap. Eustath. 27 Od. p. 1466, 56 ff., 
schol. Pind. Pytk. argum. 3, Censorin. de die mat. 18. 6. See further A. Mommsen 
Delphika Leipzig 1878 p. 153 f. 

3 Corp. inscr. Att. ii. 2 no. 985 4, 1 ff.=Roberts—Gardner Gk. Zfigr. ii. 421 ff. 
no. 167, 1 ff. [6 dpxeOéwpos Tod ev Arjdw S|nuouv Tov ’AOnvaiwy 6 Kexetporor[nuévols éml Thy 
€éarrooTo|[Anv Tav Oewpav amaydvTwy Tas amalpxas THs mpwrns evveeTn[ploos 'Emixpa |rns 
"Emorpdrov Ie[—-- davéypapev r&v lepéwy kai] apxdvrwy Tas amapxas [r]@’Améd[\Awre 7H] 
IIlvdiw xalra | To Wypicua tod Syuov, 6 — — — ey Muppwod)]rrns elev. x.7.d. E. S. 
Roberts and E. A. Gardner ad /oc. remark: ‘If we may accept Koehler’s restoration of 
the first line, it will appear that the architheorus, elected as head of the @ewpot by the 
Attic cleruchs in Delos, published lists of the dwrapyat paid by Delian priests and certain 
Attic magistrates to the Pythian Apollo during an évveernpls, or period of eight years. 
This period perhaps was designed to recall the time when the Pythian festival was 
celebrated once in every eight years. It is called rpw&ry possibly because the Athenians 
had given up the practice of sending a ¢heorza to Delos and did not reintroduce it till the 
end of the second century B.c.’ So also W. Larfeld Handbuch der griechischen Epigraphik 
Leipzig 1898 ii. i, 182, cp. G. Busolt Griechische Geschichte Gotha 1893 i?. 676 n. 2. 

* R. Engelmann in Roscher Lex. A/yth. i. 68, W. H. Roscher 2d. i. 433, G. Wentzel 
in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 378 f., K. Wernicke 7d. ii. 25 f., Prellerp—Robert Gr. 
Myth. i. 270, 287 n. 1, 439 n. 3, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 107, 1243 N. 2, 1254 n. 3, 
1327 N. 2, 1454, CP. 1493 n. 3. The earliest allusion to the myth is in Z/. 2. 766 (cp. also 
Ll, 21. 441 ff.). 

>» Pherekydes of Leros frag. 76 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. go Miiller) af. schol. Eur. Alc, 1 
eis evavréyv, Apollod. 3. 10. 4 évavrévy. Cp. Panyassis frag. 16 Kinkel af. Clem. Al. 
protr. 2. 35. 3 p. 26, 22 ff. Stahlin. 

8 Serv. iw Verg. Aen. 7. 761=Myth. Vat. 1. 46, 2. 128 novem annis—by confusion 
with inclusive reckoning. 

7 Prob. iz Verg. georg. 3. 1 decem annis—the nearest round number: so stories grow. 
In Myth. Vat. 1. 204 Admetus de Alcesta genuit Nisam et Stenoboeam. pro Nisa 
servivit ei Apollo septem annis the Greek myth has been modified by the Biblical tale of 
Jacob serving Laban seven years for Rachel (Gen. 29. 15 ff.). 

8 Plout. amat. 17 Kal yap Tov ’Amré\\wva uvOodoyodow épacThy yevouevov “’ Adunrw 
mapabyretoa. péyay eis évavrdv.” The poet was very possibly Rhianos the Cretan (cp. 
schol. Eur, Adc. 1 ‘Pravds 6€ pow dre éxdv edovrevcev abr épav rod’ Adujrov), who may 
have told the tale in his Zhessadika (W. Christ Geschichte der griechischen Litteratur® 
Miinchen tgrt p. 109); but see éz/ra p. 241 n. 1. 


Dionysos at Delphoi 241 


Clement of Alexandreia! describes Apollon’s servitude as lasting 
‘for a great year?’ And this myth was connected more® or less 
closely* with Delphoi. Thus usage and belief alike attest the re- 
cognition of the old lunisolar of¢aeter¢s for the purposes of Delphic 
religion. Now A. Schmidt has argued that the of¢aeter¢s was essen- 
tially Apolline®, and in support of his thesis is able to cite, not 
only the bulk of the evidence given above, but also the Boeotian 


1 Clem. Al. strom. 1. 21 p. 69, 3 ff. Stahlin cal oddév Oavuacrdy, drov ye Kal’ Adunr@ 
Onrevwv evploxerac (sc.’Amd\dwv) ody Kal ‘“Hpaxde? “wéyar els eviavrév.”” The association 
of Apollon with Herakles (cp. Aug. de civ. Dei 18. 13, Myth. Vat. 1. 92, 3. 13. 3) makes 
it possible that Rhianos dealt with the theme in his Herakleias (W. Christ loc. cit.). 

2 This éviaurés was éxTw érn (Apollod. 3. 4. 2 quoted swpra i. 540 n. 1). 

3 Alexandrides frag. 5 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 107 Miiller ; but see supra p. 238 n. 1) 
ap. schol. Eur. Ale. 1 *Avagavdplins (G. J. Voss cj. "ANeEavdpldns) dé 6 Aetpos pnor 
Onredca avrov didre Tov év IlvO0t Spdxovra dvetdhev. To the same effect C. O. Miiller Zhe 
History and Antiquities of the Doric Race Oxford 1830 i. 232, 338f., observing that the 
boy who represented Apollon at the Stepterion imitated the servitude of the god (Plout. 
de def. or. 15 Kal TeXevraiov ai Te Thdvar Kal H AaTpela TOO maLdds ol TE ~yuyvouevor TeEpl TA 
Téumn kabapuol weyddou Tivos dyous kal ToOAunuaTos Vropiay éxovor). When Python came 
to be regarded, not as a holy snake whose murder demanded expiation, but as an unholy 
dragon whose slaughter was a meritorious act, the tale of Apollon’s bondage had to be 
furnished with a fresh motive (K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Zucc. ii. 25 f.). 

4 Asklepios brought to life again those that died at Delphoi (Pherekydes of Leros 
frag. 8 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 71 f. Miller) af. schol. Eur. Alc. 1 Bepexvdns év rq dydby THY 
ioropidy (rH n TSv icropay A. rH 7 ioropia B. ry ioropia Fl. 6. 15) Tods ev Aeddots pyar 
OvjcKovras abrov dvaBiwoKew and af. schol. Pind. Pyth. 3. 96 Pepexvdns 5é Gru rods &v 
Aedpois OvycKovras avaB.ovy érolnoev (éroler B.))—a strange statement, which may have 
reference to those that underwent the Delphic rite of regeneration (sapra p. 210 ff.). For 
this reason Asklepios was slain by Zeus with a thunderbolt at Delphoi (Pherekydes of 
Leros af. schol. Eur. Alc. 1 xreiver Zebs "AokAnmidy Tov watda abrod Kepavy@ (Kkepauy@ om. 
A.) €v Hv@Gv. aviorn yap lwmevos robs TeOveGras). Mnaseas of Patrai or Patara, a pupil 
of Eratosthenes (W. Christ Geschichte der griechischen Litteratur® Mimchen 1911 ii. I. 
187, 1y6), apparently identified Asklepios with Apollon and treated the myth in 
Euhemeristic fashion (Mnaseas Patrensis frag. 16 (Frag. hist. Gr. tii. 152 Miiller) a. 
Fulgent. exp. serm. ant. 2 p. 112, 2 ff. Helm Mnaseas scribit in Europae libro Apollinem 
(E. Mehler cj. Afopidem, cp. Plout. de Zs. e¢ Os. 36), posteaquam a love victus atque 
interfectus est, a vispillonibus ad sepulturam delatus est (de/atwm esse codd. B.E. $8), unless 
indeed the passage of Mnaseas cited by Fabius Planciades Fulgentius is an impudent for- 
gery, which is very possible (F. Skutsch in Pauly—Wissowa Aeal-Enc. vii. 219 f.). Others 
spoke of Asklepios’ fate as his apotheosis and introduced him into Olympos along with 
Herakles (Apollod. frag. 72 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 442f. Miller) af. Clem. Al. strom. 1.21 p. 68, 
1 ff. Stahlin= Euseb. graep. ev. to. 12. 19, Loukian, dal. deor. 13. 1 f.), or identified him, 
like Herakles (Hyg. poet. astr. 2. 14, schol. Arat. phaen. 74, cp. Gruppe Gr. AZyth. Rel. 
p- 4970. 3), with the constellation Ophiouchos (pseudo-Eratosth. catas¢. 6, Hyg. poet. 
astr. 2. 14, schol. Caes. Germ. Avadea p. 384, 22 ff. Eyssenhardt, Serv. zz Verg. Aen. ii. 
259, Myth. Vat. 3. ro. 6). Be that as it may, Apollon killed the Kyklopes (Hes. frag. 47 
Flach, 88 Rzach), who had made the fatal bolt for Zeus, or killed their sons (Pherekydes 
of Leros af. schol. Eur. A/c. 1), and for this impiety was bidden by Zeus to serve Admetos 
(Eur. A/c. t ff. with schol. ad doc., Apollod. 3. 10. 4, Diod. 6. 8, Prob. 2 Verg. georg. 3. 
1, Stat. 7hed. 6. 375 f., Loukian. de sacrif. 4, Hyg. fab. 49, Serv. iz Verg. georg. 3. 2, id. 
in Verg. Aen. 7. 761, Myth. Vat. 1. 46, 2. 43, schol. Lucan. 6. 368, Orph. Avg. 175 ff.). 

5 A. Schmidt Hanabuch der griechischen Chronologie Jena 1888 p. 61 ff. 


CAT: 16 


24.2 Dionysos at Delphoi 


Daphnephoria!, a festival likewise held every eighth year. Yet, if 
Apollon settled at Delphoi in days when the octennial cycle was 
in vogue, we must not therefore jump to the conclusion that he had 
staked out his claim before the arrival of Dionysos. For, though 
the Stepterion included a mimetic representation of Apollon’s fight 
with Python, the Herois and the Charila were distinctly Dionysiac : 
the former resembled the ascent of Semele and was explained by 
a mystic tale known to the Thyiads; the latter assigned important 
duties to the principal Thyiad*. The fact is that the oktaeter/s was 
an ancient rectification of the calendar, which left its mark on a 
variety of customs and myths*. It was never the exclusive property 
of any one god or goddess, and at Delphoi it was common to the 
rites of Apollon and Dionysos. Fortunately for our solution of the 
problem we can appeal from the early ok¢aeterzs to the still earlier 
trieterts*, Delphoi was in classical times the centre of certain far- 
famed trieteric rites>; and these were notoriously the rites, not of 
Apollon, but of Dionysos*. Unless, therefore, we hold—in defiance 
of the Greek and Roman chronologists’—that the ¢vzeterzs was no 


1 T have dealt in detail with the Daphnephoria in Folk-Lore 1904 xv. 409 ff. See also 
Boetticher Baumkultus p. 385 ff., P. Paris in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. ii. 24 ff., 
P. Stengel in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iv. 2140, O. Jessen 2. iv. 2140 f., Nilsson G7. 
Feste p. 164f., Farnell Cuts of Gk. States iv. 284 ff., Frazer Pausanias v. 41 ff., zd. 
Golden Bough*®; The Magic Art ii. 63 n. 2, The Dying God pp. 78f., 88f., Adonis Attis 
Osiris? ii. 241. Sir J. G. Frazer (The Dying God p. 79) contends that at Thebes ‘in his- 
torical times Apollo appears to have ousted Cadmus from the festival,’ and thinks it ‘not 
impossible that at Delphi also...Apollo may have displaced an old local hero in the 
honourable office of dragon-slayer.’ 

2 Plout. guaestt. Gr. 12. Cp. L. Weniger Uber das Collegium der Thyiaden v. Delphi 
Eisenach 1876. 

3 Supra i. 692. See further A. Schmidt Handbuch der griechischen Chronologie Jena 
1888 p. 56 ff. (with the caveat of W. H. Roscher Die enneadischen und hebdomadischen 
Fristen und Wochen der dltesten Griechen (Abh. d. stichs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. 
Classe 1903 xxi. 4) Leipzig 1903 p. 73 n- 204>), F. K. Ginzel Handbuch der mathema- 
tischen und technischen Chronologie Leipzig 1911 ii. 365 ff., Gruppe Gr. AdZyth. Rel. 
pi o57 ue 

4 Supra i. 690. The historical priority of the ¢rze¢er/s is accepted also by A. Schmidt 
Handbuch der griechischen Chronologie Jena 1888 p. 31 ff., G. F. Unger Zeitrechnung der 
Griechen und Rimer® (in I. von Miller Handbuch der klassischen Altertums-wissenschaft 
i?) Miinchen 1892 p. 731 f., G. F. Schoemann Griechische Alterthtimer* Berlin 1902 ii. 
460 n. 2, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 955 f. It is too summarily rejected by M. P. Nilsson 
Primitive Time-reckoning Lund 1920 p. 1. 

° Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 956 n. 2. 

§ The myth and the rites in question are well put together by L. Weniger in the 
Archiv f. Rel. 1906 ix. 231 ff. Cp. M. Ross De Baccho Delphico Bonnae 1865 p. 2 ff. 

7 Gemin. elem. astr. 8. 25 f. of d¢"ENAqves Thw evaytiav youn Exovres Tous ev éviavTods 
kal’ jrLoy Gyovor, Tods 5é whvas Kal Tas Huepas Kara ceAHvyY. ol wey ody dpxator TOds Mivas 
TpiakovOnpuépous 7yov, Tovs dé €uBoXiwous map’ eviavrdv. tayéws 5° éml (sic V1. 5 bad V2. V. 
dé bro edd.) rod Pawopévov edeyxouevns THs dAnOelas dia Td Tas Huepas Kal Tods Avas uh 
ouupuvety TH ceAHvN, Tods dé (5 V1. edd.) exavrods pH ororxetv (cTixe V}.) TE TAly, 


Dionysos displaced by Apollon = 243 


true precursor of the ok/¢aeter¢s', we are bound to admit that at 
Delphoi the cult of Dionysos was regulated by a more primitive 
calendar than the cult of Apollon; and it becomes at least reason- 
able? to suppose that Dionysos was first in the field. 


(x) Dionysos displaced by Apollon at Delphoi. 


With the advent of Apollon Dionysos suffered a partial, but 
never a total, eclipse. In addition to his winter season he was 
invoked by Philodamos, the Locrian author of a Delphic pazdén 
(335—334 B.C.), to come ‘in the holy time of spring*” and even in 
the summer month Apellaios he received (c¢c. 400 B.C.) a sacrifice 


[dev] (del. C. Manitius. Petavius cj. évretOev. et guia tnveniebant wllud diversum veritat...., 
guaesiverunt aliguid, guo versio Latina ex Arabico sermone conversa s. xii) éfjrouv 
meplodov, Ts KaTa pev Tos EviavTods TO HAlw cumpwvygeL, KaTa 5é Tos wivas Kal TAS NuEpas 
TH TEAHVY, K.T.., Censorin. de die nat. 18. 2 veteres in Graecia civitates cum animadver- 
terent, dum sol annuo cursu orbem suum circumit, lunam novam interdum tridecies 
(terdecies vulg.) exoriri idque saepe alternis fieri, arbitrati sunt lunares duodecim menses et 
dimidiatum ad annum naturalem convenire. itaque annos civiles sic statuerunt, ut inter- 
calando facerent alternos duodecim mensium, alternos tredecim, utrumque annum 
separatim vertentem, iunctos ambo annum magnum vocantes. idque tempus trieterida 
appellabant, quod tertio quoque anno intercalabatur, quamvis biennii circuitus et re vera 
dieteris esset; unde mysteria, quae Libero (Zzbero patri vulg.) alternis fiunt annis, 
trieterica a poetis dicuntur. See further Hdt. 1. 32, 2. 4. 

1 So F. K. Ginzel Handbuch der mathematischen und technischen Chronologie Das 
Zeitrechnungswesen der Volker Leipzig 1911 ii. 370 ff. He points out that, since the 
solar year contains 365°2422 days and the lunar year 354°3671 days, a cycle of two years 
containing 360 and 390 days would give no sort of approximation to natural fact. He 
rightly infers that we must understand Geminos’ pijvas rpiaxovOnuépous as a popular 
expression denoting the ordinary Greek month. But, if so, twelve months of alternately 
30 and 29 days followed by thirteen months of alternately 30 and 29 days produce a 
cycle of 354+384=738 days. This exceeds two solar years by about 74 days—an excess 
which in the course of four such cyles would amount to another month. The ¢reéerds, in 
fact, would naturally and inevitably lead on to the of¢aeterés. 

2 Not, of course, necessary. It remains possible to argue that the more primitive cult 
was introduced at a later date from a less civilised region. 

3-H. Weil in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1895 xix. 393 ff., cp. W. Christ Geschichte der 
griechischen Litteratur® Miinchen rgit ii. £. 114. The pazdén was inscribed in the 
archonship of Etymondas, the date of which I give after H. Pomtow in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. iv. 2589 f., 2697. Weil reconstructs the opening lines thus: [Aeip’, ava 
AlOvpauBe Baxx’ | e[vie, OvpoAlpes, Bpai-\rd, Bpduc(e), npwalts ixod | ratod(e)] iepats év 
wpas: | Evo? & 16 [Baxx’ @ ié Masay: | x.7.., supposing an allusion to the spring festival 
Theoxenia, and suggesting that Bpairds=fpatras=pairys (palw, ‘I strike’), cp. sepra 1. 
469 n. 4, 659 f., 711 Dionysos ’Av@pwroppatorns. Miss J. E. Harrison in the Class. Rev. 
1902 xvi. 332 and in her Proleg. Gk. Rel.” p. 416 f. argued that the epithet is connected 
with the late Latin dvazswm (Ducange Gloss. med. et inf. Lat. s.vv. brace, braesium, 
braisum), ‘grain prepared for making beer.’ But in the Class. Rev. 1910 xxiv. 245 she 
follows W. Vollgraff, who in Wnemosyne N.S. 1905 xxxili. 379 proposed kicoo}xai|ra. 
H. van Herwerden Lexicon Graecum suppletorium et dialecticum™ Lugduni Batavorum i. 
289 observes: ‘e Guil. Vollgraffio, qui lapidem vidit, audivi se pro certo tantum agnovisse 
AITA, sed antecedentem litteram sibi videri fuisse X, itaque latere compositum, velut 
kigooxaira.’ Thus two ingenious guesses lose their vazson aétre. 


16—2 


244. Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


from the Labyadai!. These commemorations are of interest. The 
first implies that at Delphoi, as at Athens, Dionysos had spring- 
rites as well as winter-rites?. The second implies that in Apellaios, 
the opening month of the Delphic year, he was not forgotten by an 
ancient Delphic phratry, a phratry which in the following month 
paid a like compliment to Zeus Patrézos®. 

This process of mutual accommodation tended to produce a 
certain similarity in the parties concerned. Dionysos became to 
some extent Apolline, Apollon to some extent Dionysiac. On the 
one hand Dionysos was equipped with bay-wreath‘ and lyre’; on 


1 T. Homolle in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1895 xix. 5 ff D 43 ff.=J. Baunack in Collitz— 
Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Inschr. ii. 718 ff. no. 2561 D 43 ff. = Michel Recuezl d’Inuscr. gr. 
no. 995 D 43 ff.= Dittenberger Sy//. inscr. Gr? no. 438d 208 ff.=J. v. Prott and L. Ziehen 
Leges Graecorum sacrae ii. 217 ff. no. 74 D 43 ff.=F. Solmsen J/uscriptiones Graecae ad 
inlustrandas dialectos selectae Lipsiae 1905 no. 36 D 43 ff. rae 6€ Ovolae AaBvad|av rwred- 
Aalov unvods TA|e Acovicwr. 

2 The vernal rites of Dionysos at Delphoi (?the Theoxenia in Theoxenios = Elaphe- 
bolion) corresponded with the City Dionysia at Athens ; the brumal rites of Dionysos at 
Delphoi (culminating in Amalios=Gamelion) corresponded with the Lenaia at Athens. 
See supra i. 691 fig. 511 and ii. 235 fig. 162. 

3 Supra p. 233. 

+ An epic hymn, perhaps of s. v B.c. (L. Malten in the Archiv fi Rel. 1909 xii. 307 
n. 3, R. Wiinsch in Pauly—Wissowa Real- Zinc. ix. 156), describes Dionysos as kisow xal 
ddgvy wemvcacuévos (hk. Dion. 26. 9). At Phigaleia the lower part of the cult-statue of 
Dionysos ’Axparogépos was covered with leaves of bay and ivy (Paus. 8. 39. 6), possibly 
to conceal an erect phal/és (G. Kaibel in the Machr. d. kin. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Gottingen 
Phil.-hist. Classe rg01 p. 510, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1422 n. 8); if so, we may 
conjecture that a late moralistic intention had been read into an early fertility-charm 
(cp. Paus. 1.27.1). Tert. de cor. mil.7 Liberum, eundem apud Aegyptios Osirin, Harpo- 
cration industria hederatum argumentatur, quod hederae natura sit cerebrum ab eluco 
defensare. sed et alias Liberum principem coronae plane laureae, in qua ex Indis 
triumphavit, etiam vulgus agnoscit, cum dies in illum sollemnes Magnam appellat Coro- 
nam, 26. 12 sed et de corona prius dicam.” laurea ista Apollini vel Libero sacra est, illi 
ut deo telorum, huic ut deo triumphorum. sic docet Claudius, ete. Interp. Serv. za Verg. 
ecl. 8. 12 alii ideo lauri et hederae simul mentionem factam accipiunt, quoniam Apollo 
carminum deus, idem Liber pater putatur. See also F. Lenormant in the Gaz. Arch. 
1876 ii. 103 f. and in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 618, 623. On an Attic kratér at 
Naples (Heydemann Vasensammil. Neapel p. 292 ff. no. 2419, Inghirami Vas. fitt. iv. 
23 ff. pl. 317 f., T. Panofka Dionysos und die Thyaden Berlin 1853 pp. 2 ff., 49 pl. 1, 1 
and 1® (extr. from the Adz. d. berl. Akad. 1852 Phil.-hist. Classe p. 341 ff.), A. Rapp in 
Roscher Lex. A/yth. ii. 2266 ff. fig. 6 after the Real Museo Borbonico Napoli 1839 xii 
pl. 22, and above all Furtwangler—Reichhold Gr. Vasenmalerez i. 193 ff. pl. 36 f.) a post 
dressed up as Dionysos is decked with ivy-sprays, but has sprigs of bay starting from its 
base and a bay-wreath apparently slung from its girdle: the wreath is probably meant 
for an embroidered pattern and as such occurs on a variety of late Attic vases mostly 
connected with the style of the potter Meidias (A. Milchhéfer ‘Zur jiingeren attischen 
Vasenmalerei’ in the Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1894 1x. 63 f., G. Nicole AZeidias 
et le style fleurt dans la céramigue attigue Geneva 1908 p. 109 f.), ¢.9. suprai pl. xi; it 
seems likely, however, that such ‘ Giirtelkranze’ were credited with a magical influence 
over the generative organs beneath them. he horned Dionysos of Libye(?) hoids a 
bay-branch on an Apulian £vatér discussed supra i. 374 ff. fig. 287. A red-figured vase 


at Delphoi B45 


in the second Hamilton collection shows Dionysos seated with Ariadne, while a young 
Satyr stands before them: all three are wreathed with bay; Dionysos has a bay-garland 
slung round his body, Ariadne a bay-branch behind her chair; both sit beneath festoons 
of bay (Tischbein Hamilton Vases ii. 78 f. pl. 45, Reinach Rép. Vases ii. 302, 4). Dionysos 
appears elsewhere wreathed with bay, e.g. on a red-figured vase in the first Hamilton 
collection ([P. F. Hugues, dit d’Hancarville] Avtiguités étrusques, grecgues et romaines 
Naples 1766 i pl. 104), in a wall-painting ((/onementi amtaranziani illustrati del mar- 
chese Luigi Biondi Roma 1849 pl. 29), and on coins of Pantikapaion, Phanagoreia, and 
Gorgippeia struck» under Mithradates vi Eupator, who himself took the title of Dionysos 
(E. H. Minns Scythians and Greeks Cambridge 1913 p. 629 pl. 6, 8f., pl. 9, 16 f., 23 f.; 
T. Reinach A%ithridate Eupator Paris 1890 pp. 49, 262, 277). Another red-figured vase 
in the first Hamilton collection represents the infant Dionysos held by a Nymph seated 
on a rock: before her stands Hermes, behind her a second Nymph, who carries a sprig 
of bay for the child’s brows (Inghirami Vas. fitt. ii. 133 pl. 194); cp. the Nymph (?) 
seated on a rock, who wreathes the infant Dionysos in a wall-painting from the Villa 
Farnesina (W. Helbig Fihrer durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer 
in Rom® Leipzig 1913 il. 207 f. no, 1477, A. Mau in the Azm. d. Znst. 1885 lvii. 310 f., 
Mon. d. Inst. xii pls. 18 (coloured) and 20, G. Rodenwaldt Die Komposition der pompe- 
Janischen Wandgemalde Berlin 1909 p. 38). An ivory relief at Milan makes a Maenad 
hold a bay-wreath towards young Dionysos riding in a car drawn by two panthers 
(E. Gerhard in the Arch. Zezt. 1846 iv. 219 pl. 38, supra i. 153 n. 5). See further 
L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1861 p. 59 n. 2. 
5 The evidence cited by F. Lenormant in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 618 
n. 931 f. is illusive. But better grounds are given by Farnell Cz/¢s of Gk. States v. 253—256. 
‘A red-figured 2//ix attributed to Brygos, now in the Cabinet des Médailles at Paris 
(no. 697, published by P. Hartwig Dre griechischen Meisterschalen Stuttgart und Berlin 
1893 p. 309 ff. pls. 32, 33, 1, J. E. Harrison—D. S. MacColl Greek Vase Paintings 
London 1894 p. 25 pl. 38, Farnell of. cz¢. v. 264 pl. 44), has for its inner design an ivy- 
wreathed Dionysos playing the lyre and singing an orgiastic song as he stands between 
two Satyrs, who with a flourish of vine-shoots and castanets share in the ecstasy of his 
performance. A red-figured %ratér from Ruvo, now at Naples (no. 3240, supra i. 7or 
n. 4), shows Dionysos and Ariadne advancing in the midst of their ¢A¢Zasos, all wreathed 
with ivy; he carries a tortoise-shell lyre. Another famous vase from Ruvo, the Apulian 
kratéy representing the obsequies of Archemoros (Heydemann Vasensamml. Neapel 
p- 584 ff. no. 3255, E. Gerhard ‘ Archemoros und die Hesperiden’ in the Adh. ad. bert. 
Akad. 1836 Phil.-hist. Classe pp. 251 ff., 359 ff. pls. r—4 (=7d. Gesammelte akademische 
Abhandlungen Berlin 1866 i. 1—98 pls. 1—4) and also in the Mouv. Ann. 1836 i. 
352--350 with pls. 5 f., zd. 27 vaso dall’ Archemoro Roma 1837 pp. 1—4 pls. t—3, 
Inghirami Vas. fitt. iv. 98 ff. pls. 371—373, Overbeck Gall. her. Bildw. i. 114 ff. Atlas 
pl. 4, 3, supra i. 456 n. 5), includes in the top left-hand corner of its principal face the 
figure of Dionysos reclining on cushions and a skin spread over vine-leaves beneath a 
vine-branch : he holds in his left hand a lyre, in his right a p/id/e, which a young Satyr 
is about to fill; below him stands Euneos, eponym of the Euneidai, an Athenian clan of 
KiBapwdol or KtOapioral (Harpokr. s.v. E’vetdar, Hesych. s.v. Evvetdar, cp. Phot. /ex. s.v. 
Hivetdat, et. mag. p. 393, 35 ff., Eustath. zz 7/7. p. 1327, 41 f.), who appear to have been 
hereditary priests of Dionysos Me\zémevos (Corp. inscr. Att. ill. I no. 274 an inscription 
of the Hadrianic age on a seat in the theatre at Athens lepéws | MeAzropévou | Acovicor | 
é& Evveddv). It is therefore a reasonable suggestion (Gerhard Ant. Bzldw. p. 240) that 
Dionysos Medméuevos (on whom see Welcker Gr. Gétter/. ii. 611, ili. 153, za. Alt. Denkm. 
_ iii. 130 f., Preller—Robert Gr. Myth. i. 675 n. 4, 710f., O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. Myth. 
ii. 2649 f., Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 36, 829 n. 3, 1421 n. 2, 1428 n. ro, Farnell Cults 
of Gk. States v. 143, 254 f., 307) was conceived as a lyre-player. The marble statue of 
a seated Dionysos from the choragic monument dedicated by Thrasyllos in 320 B.c. and 
reconstructed by his son Thrasykles in 270 B.c. probably represented the god with a lyre, 
the base of which rested on his left thigh (Brit. Mus. Cat. Sculpture i. 257 ff. no. 432, 


246 Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


the other, Apollon had ivy-leaves}, flutes’, and pan-pipes*. Appel- 


Brunn—Bruckmann Denkm. der gr. und rim. Sculpt. pl. 119, Overbeck Gr. Plastik4 
ii. 124f., 138, Collignon Hist. de la Sculpt. gr. ii. 459 f. fig. 240). A red-figured 
hkratér from Campania, now at Petrograd, has a lyre-playing Dionysos grouped with two 
Maenads and a Satyr (Stephani Vasensamml. St. Petersburg ii. 293 f. no. 1774). And an 
Apulian £éztharos at Boston shows him seated beneath a grape-vine, thyrsos in hand ; 
on the ground at his left is a lyre, at his right a pair of pipes (Robinson Caz. Vases Boston 
p. 186 f. no. 515). Less conclusive is a red-figured 4va¢ér in the Cabinet des Medailles at 
Paris (no. 4778), which shows an ivy-crowned Dionysos seated on a rock, playing a lyre, 
with Maenads and Satyrs grouped about him (Reinach Vases Ant. p. 73 pl. 533; but 
Lenormant—de Witte Z/. mon. cér. ii. 213 ff. pl. 71 interpret the scene as ‘ Afollon a 
Nysa’ cp. Diod. 3. 59, Overbeck Gv. Kunsimyth. Apollon pp. 325, 330 no. 28). The 
motif of Dionysos with the lyre, which is not found in art before the beginning of s. v B.c., 
seems not to occur at all in literature; for in Kallistr. 8. 4 elorjxer de (sc. 6 Atévucos) Tiv 
hipav émepeldwy T@ OUpsw Jacobs, followed by K. Schenkl and E. Reisch, cj. Aavdy and 
Pierson cj. meuvpav. 

1 Aristoteles ¢heologumena (=Aristot. frag. 284 (frag. hist. Gr. il. 190 Miiller)) af. 
Macrob. Sa¢. 1. 18. 2 apud Lacedaemonios etiam in sacris quae Apollini celebrant (cele- 
brabant B. G.), Hyacinthia vocantes, hedera coronantur Bacchico ritu. On this festival 
see Nilsson Gr. Feste p. 129 ff., Farnell Cults of Gk. States iv. 125 ff., 264 ff., P. Stengel 
in Pauly—Wissowa Real-ZEnc. ix. 1 f., E. Bischoff zd, ix. 3 f.,S. Eitrem 2d. ix. 7 ff. Mart. 
Cap. 10-item eum (sc. Apollinem) in Helicona Delon Lyciamque sectantur. sed alibi 
lauros primores (primos D.) arentesque ederas alibi cariantem (carientem D.) tripodem 
crepidasque situ murcidas (marcidas D.) praesagiorumque interlitam memoriam reppere- 
runt. HW. mag. 2. 27 (Abel Orphica p. 288) deipo, raxos & emi yaiav, ime, xusceoxaira (so 
E. Abel for xicceoxaita pap.): with this description of Apollon cp. that of Dionysos in 
Pratinas frag. 1. 17 Bergk4 af. Athen. 617 F xioooxair’ (leg. keccoxair’ T. Bergk and E. 
Hiller print xicodxair’ after J. Schweighaeuser) dvat, dxove ray eudv Awpioy xopelay, in 
Ekphantides fad. inc. frag. 2 (Frag. com. Gr. ii. 13 Meineke) quoted by Kratinos fad. inc. 
frag. 52 (Frag. com. Gr. ii. 194 f. Meineke) and thence by Hephaistion ech. 15. 21 etre 
Kicooxatr’ dvat, xaip’, and perhaps in the fazdéz of Philodamos (szra p. 243 n. 3), also 
h. Dion. 26. 1 kiccoxdunv Atévucov, Inscr. Gr. ins. vii no. 80 (Arkesine) ’Aya@ivos ’Ayabivou 
Tod KiXeopd[yrou] | Avoviow xicookduar kat re [Ajpwr), where kcocoxduas with its non-lonic 
termination is, as Wilamowitz ad loc. saw, a tag from some lyrical poet, Ath. Pal. 6. 56. 1 
(Makedonios of Thessalonike) kiccoxéuav Bpoulw Ddrupor «.T.d., where O. Hofer in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. ii. 1207 needlessly supposes a Satyr-name Kiocoxéuys and it is at least a question 
whether we should not read kioooxdue with the ed. princeps (Florentina a. 1494) of 
Planoudes. At Voni, N.E. of Nikosia in Kypros, is the sanctuary of a god, who is called 
Apollon by inscriptions (M. Ohnefalsch-Richter in the Ath. Aitth. 1884 ix. 135 ff. 
nos. 1—6, J. L. Myres and M. Ohnefalsch-Richter A Catalogue of the Cyprus Museum 
Oxford 1899 p. 148 nos. 5143—5145) but has the attributes of Zeus, wzz. eagle (2b. p. 145 
no. 5048 f.) or Nike (26. p. 146 no. 5050): I figure nos. 5048 and 5050 after Ohnefalsch- 
Richter Aypvos pp. 266, 330, 376 pl. 40, rf. and 4f., cp. zd. in the Ath. Mitth. 1884 ix. 
133 f. no. tof. pl. 5, 6f.; fig. 164 is a limestone statue (height 1°16™) of Apollon wreathed 
with bay, resting his left arm on a round column with a debased Doric capital and 
holding a cylindrical object (scroll?) in his left hand, while an eagle perched on his wrist 
looks up at him ; fig. 165 is a similar statue (height 1°95™), of which the left arm rests on 
a Doric column, the left hand holds a Nike, the right hand a palm-branch—the pose 
being reproduced in fig. 166 (after Ayfros locc. citt. pl. 40, 3, cp. Ath. Mitth. 1884 ix. 
134f. pl. 5, 8, Catalogue p. 145 no. 5037)=a similar statue (height 2°o™) of a votary 
holding the same lustral branch. ‘An irregular block of limestone found in this precinct 
records in lettering of s. ii (?) B.C. a series of sacrifices (to Apollon ?) performed by certain 
théaso¢ including 6 @lacos r&[v] | Kiodw[y], which has been taken to mean ‘the ivy-men’ 
(M. Ohnefalsch-Richter in the Azh. Mitth. 1884 ix. 137 f. no. 8, 7d. Kypros pp. 5 no. 9; 


at Delphoi 24.7 


124, 254n.*, J. L. Myres and M. Ohnefalsch-Richter A Catalogue of the Cyprus Museum 
Oxford 1899 p. 148 no. 5147, Gruppe Gr. AZyth. Rel. p. 1246 n. 6). The interpretation 
is precarious, though no doubt ivy-wreaths played their part in Cypriote cult—witness 
e.g. a bearded head of c. 450 B.C., at New York, wearing a wreath of bay-leaves above 
and ivy-leaves with their berries below (J. L. Myres Zhe Metropolitan Museum af Art: 
Handbook of the Cesnola Collection of Antiquities from Cyprus New York 1914 p. 204 
no. 1291 fig., L. P. di Cesnola A descriptive Atlas of the Cesnola Collection of Cypriote 
Antiquities in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York Boston [Mass.] 1885 i pl. 82 
no. 539). Should the Cypriote xirrapis (Hesych. kérrapis: diddnua 8 popotor Kimpior. 
oi dé Ta dtadjuaTa popoivres Kirrapor Aéyovrat) be referred to kiccapos, which Hippokrates 


| 
i 
eiie 
4 





Fig. 166. 


used in the sense of kioods (Erotian. rév map’ ‘Immoxpdrer Néfewv swaywyh p. 83, 15 
Klein kisoapov: rov xurcdy (so all the Mss. A. Foes cj. kicoapov: tov kvodv)), and so be 
rendered ‘ivy-crown’? Another Zeus-like Apollon, more certainly connected with ivy, 
is found on a guasi-autonomous copper of Alabanda in Karia (J. Friedlaender in the 
Zeitschr. f. Num. 1881 viii. 9 pl. 2, 5=my fig. 167, J. Rendel Harris The Origin of the 
Cult of Apollo (reprinted from The Bulletin of the John Rylands Library January—March 
1916) p. 15 f. fig. 1): obv. AAABAN AEQQIN youthful head of Dionysos to right, 
wreathed with ivy; rev. KICCIOC Apollon standing, nude, with wreathed head, quiver 
on back, bow in lowered left hand, looking towards eagle on outstretched right hand, 
and a small ram at his feet. A similar reverse occurs on coppers of the same town struck 


248 Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


under Britannicus (Mionnet Desc. de méd. ant. Suppl. vi. 439 no. 24 after A. Visconti 
Medaglie antiche tnedite Roma 1810 pl. 3, 5, J. Friedlaender Joc. cit. pl. 2, 4=my 
fig. 168) and Maximus (Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. iii. 310 no. 41 after J. Eckhel Cata- 
logus Musei Caesaret Vindobonensis numorum veterum Vindobonae 1779 i. 177): obv. 
KAAVAIOCBPETANN[IKO]C[KAICAP] head of Britannicus to right, or [- 1OY - 
OYH:-MAZIMOC: K: head of Maximus to right; rev. AAABANAEQIN Apollon 
standing, nude, quiver on back, bow in outstretched left hand, looking towards eagle 
on outstretched right hand, and a small ram at his feet. With regard to these types, 
Dr Rendel Harris Zoc. czt. notes that the head on the obverse of the first coin might be, 
not Dionysos, but ‘a variant of Apollo’; others, reading KICCEOC on the reverse of 
the same coin, have taken the god there figured to be, not Apollon, but Dionysos 
(D. Sestini Lettere e Dissertaziont numismatiche...Le quali servir possono adi continuazione 
at nove tomt gid editi Firenze 1819 vi. 30f. no. 8, Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. Suppl. vi. 
436 no. 11, A. Fabretti Regio Museo di Torino. Monete Greche Torino 1883 p. 292 
no. 4199, H. Heydemann Satyr- und Bakchennamen (Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Halle 
1880) p. 37; D. Sestini /oc. cit. p. 31 suggests that the bird may be a jay (kioca), 
J. Friedlaender Zoc. cit. makes it a raven, as does Head Hest. num. p. 607, but unbiased 
inspection shows that it is almost certainly an eagle—a fact which led J. Eckhel /oc. ciz., 
Rasche Lex. Num. i. 267 f., and Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. ili. 310 no. 41 to describe 





Figs. 167—168. 


the type as Iupiter holding an eagle. A red-figured £//x from the Laborde collection 
shows a long-haired youth, with an ivy-wreath on his head and a hzmdtion about his legs, 
holding a lyre in his left hand and a Phzdle in his right, as he sits before a flaming altar: 
he is commonly, and perhaps rightly (cp. the 4f//éx in Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases iii. 10Gf. 
no. E 80 pl. 5, better published by Farnell Cults of Gk. States iv. 331 f. pl. 23), called 
Apollon (Lenormant—de Witte Z/. mon. cér. ii. 17 f. pl. 4, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. 
Apollon p. 325 no. 27, p. 330 Atlas pl. 21, 20). But a somewhat similar figure on a 
red-figured £ratér in the Cabinet des Médailles is more probably to be identified with 
Dionysos on account of his evtourage (supra p. 246 n. 0). Lastly, a wall-painting from 
Herculaneum, now at Naples, has Apollon wreathed with ivy and half-draped in a 
himdtion, with lyre beneath left hand, A/ék¢von in right, sitting on a stool beside a female 
figure (Muse ?), who is similarly wreathed and holds a garland of bay; the group forms 
part of a scene depicting the punishment of Marsyas (Helbig Wandgem. Camp. p. 64 
no. 231, Antichita di Ercolano Napoli 1760 ii (Pitture ii) p. 121 ff. pl. 19, Real Museo 
Borbonico Napoli 1832 viii pl. 19 ivy not clear, W. Ternite Wandgemdlde aus Pompejt 
und Herculanum...mit einem erlauternden Text von C. O. Miiller Berlin s.a. i. 5 f. pl. 7 
ivy quite clear and noted as ‘eine seltne Bekranzung des Gottes’ in the commentary, 
Miiller—Wieseler Denkm. d. alt. Kunst i. 34 pl. 43, 204 ivy clear, Overbeck Gr. Kumst- 


myth. Apollon p. 344 no. 32, p. 348 Atlas pl. 25, 13 rightly assuming a seated statue of 
Apollon as prototype). 


at Delphoi 249° 


2 Plout. de mus. 14 od pdvn dé KiOdpa ’Amd\Awvos, GANG Kal adAnriKAs Kal KOapioTiKAs 

elpeTns 6 Beds. OHAov dé Ex TOV xopHy Kal THY Ovoiay ds mpociyyov peTa aVAOY TH Hew, 
Ka@daep doe Te Kal "ANxaios vy tur TO buywr (Alkaios frag. 3 Bergk?*) icrope?. Kai év 
Aw dé rod aydduaros atrod ddidpuois exe ev méev TH Sekid ThEov ev be TH apiorepa 
Xdpiras, r&v ris moves dpydvwv éexdoryny te éxovoav: h pev yap NUpay Kparel, H dE 
avdouvs, 7 5 €v wéow mpoxemévny exer TO oTduare ovpryya (supra p. 232 Nn. 0). bred obros 
ovK éuds 6 Névyos ’AvTixAjs (H. Valesius restored ’Avrixdeléns (frag. 5 in Script. hist. 
Alex. Mag. p. 147 Miiller)) xal”Iorpos év rats "Emipaveias (Istr. frag. 35 (Frag. hist. Gr. 
i. 423 Miiller)) wept rovrwy adnyjoavto: ol'rw dé madaidy éore TO adidpuua ToOTO Ware Tos 
épyacamévous alto Tév Kad’ “Hpaxdéa Mepdrwv dacly eivar. adr\a env Kal TH KaTaKoplfovTe 
madi Thy Teumixny Sddynv eis AeXpods mapouapre? avAnrys' Kal Ta é& ‘TrepBopéwy dé lepa 
wera athOv kal cuplyywy Kal xiOdpas els rhv AjAbv pact TO Tadady oréANeTOat. GAdoe OE 
kai avrov Tov Oedy pacw add\joa, Kabdrep loropet 6 dpioTos meA@Y Townrhs ’ANkudav (Alkm. 
Jrag. 102 Bergk4). 4 6€ Képwva kcal didaxOjvat dyno tov ’Ard\\wW br’ ’AOnvas addew 
(Korinn. frag. 29 Bergk#), Paus. 5. 7. 10 rovrov dé évexa kal 7d atA\nua 7d IvOcxdy pace 
TO THOhuaTe érevcaxXOfvac TV TevTdOwy, ws Td bev iepov Tod ’Amé\Xwvos TO at nua ov, 
Tov *Amé\\wva 5& avypnuévov ’Odvmmixas vixas. On Apollon’s match with the flautist 
Marsyas see O. Jessen in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 2441 ff., seprai. 128 Ff. pl. xii. Quasz- 
autonomous and imperial coppers of Magnesia ad Maeandrum give the title AvAaeirns or 
Av\airns or AvAirns or A’AnTHs to the lyre-playing Apollon (Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. 
Suppl. vi. 235 f. nos. 1024 AYAHTOY, 1025 AYAAITHC, 1026 AYAAITOY, &rzz. 
Mus. Cat. Coins Ionia p. 164 nos. 49 AYAAITH[C MAT NHTQN], sof. AYAAI 
THC, Bunter Cat. Coins ii. 348 nos. 11 f. AYAAITHS ---; Imhoof-Blumer 
Kleinas. Miinzen i. 79 no. 25 pl. 3, 3 AVAAEITHC MAT NH, cp. Mionnet of. cit. 
Suppl. vi. 238 no. 10399 AYAAEPTH-MAPNH:: O. Kern Die Zuschriften von 
Magnesia am Maeander Berlin 1900 p. xxv queries AvAnrHs and Av’Aaéprys). Eckhel 
Doctr. num. vet.” ii. 526 remarks: ‘Vocabulum ATAAITH®S esse nomen magistratus, 
etsi insolens, dubium non videtur. Apollinis cognomen esse nequit ; nam etsi quis opinari 
vellet, scriptum esse AYAAITHE pro ATAHTH®S, quoniam vocabulum istud ¢ibicinem 
notat, Latonae filio competere nequit, qui tibicen nunquam, citharoedus semper fuit, et 
citharoedus in hoe ipso numo proponitur. Forte Az/aefes magistratus propter nominis 
cum Az/efe adfinitatem deum aliquem musicum sibi in typum legit, eamque Apollinem 
Colophonium.’ L. Dindorf in Stephanus 7hes. Gr. Ling. i. 2. 2456C comments: 
‘a’Natrns necessario esse ad avAala referendum, nihil vero commune habere cum avXols 
ostendere a interpositum ante terminationem.’ U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff in the 
Gott. Gel. Anz. 1900 clxii. 572 n. 3 derives the appellation from avA%, ‘a cave,’ citing 
Paus. 10. 32. 6 éore 6€ Kal rots éml rorau@ Anbaly Mayrnow "Trac Kadovpevov xwplov- 
évradda ’Améd\Nwue avetrar ompdavoy (cp. 20. 5), K.T-A., Where he emends Aa into AvAal— 
an emendation printed in the text by F. Spiro (1903) and supported by the fact that Pan 
had a cave-sanctuary (?) in Arkadia (Ail. de zat. an. 11. 6 &v ’Apxadia dé xapa early iepdy 
Tlavés: AvAn TG XHpw TO dvowa) and Zeus at /dnzi in Phrygia (A. Koerte in the AZz. 
Mitth. 1900 xxv. 419 ff. no. 32 a limestone altar inscribed Aw é& adds élrnkdw Oe& | of 
Tlamrd kai Datou | kXnpovdmoe brép ’Ac|k\nmiddov Tod Aalud viod evxhy | rHvde avéornoayr | 
dévres Kal reuévous | brép:adrod TH Oe | kal TH kwun atrixds | B kal ¢ | elveca eiNwa exw 
tov | Oedv). Gruppe Gr. AZyth. Rel. p. 1249 n. 2 refers A’Nairys to the ‘anscheinend 
barbarische Epikleseis’ borne by Apollon in various parts of Asia Minor. To me it 
seems probable that AvAatrns, Avdrns, AUAnTHs are progressive attempts to read a Greek 
meaning into a non-Greek title (cp. supra i. 18 f., 25, 25 n. 2, 651). 

3 For the pan-pipes as an attribute of one of the Charites held by the Delian Apollon 
see supra pp. 232 nN. Oo, 249 N. 2, as an instrument used in the rites of the Hyperborean 
Apollon see supra p. 249 n. 2. Theopomp. frag. 320 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 330 Miiller) 
ap. Hesych. Aovaordy: tov ’Amé\\wva. Oedmoumos has been variously emended. J. Barnes 
cj. Aovnrqv ; but Salmasius restored Aovdxray, which is accepted by M. Schmidt as ‘God 
of the Reed-Pipes,’ cp. schol. Pind. Pyth. 12. 44. 


‘250 Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


latives as well as attributes were common to the two: Dionysos 
was Mousagétes in Naxos}, Sminthios(?) in Rhodes*, /atrés* and 
Paién* at Delphoi; Apollon was T7hyios at Miletos*, Mystes at 


1 Tnscr. Gr. ins. v. 1 no. 46 (after C. Tissot in the Ball. Corr. Hell. 1878 ii. 587 no. 3, 
U. Kohler in the A¢h. Mtth. 1878 iii. 161 no. 1, E. Szanto in the Arch.-ep. Mitth. 1890 
xiii. 179 no. 4) aywvoberycas | Tov weydhwv Atovu|ciwy Acovicw Movalayérn émi elepéos 
tov | Acovicov Iepydmo[v] | (B’) mera maons e[v]|xapiorias av[é]\Onka (the name of the 
dedicator is missing). See further O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. Adyth. ii. 3234, supra i. 
FUL. 5s 

2 Inscr. Gr. ins. i no. 762, 5 ff.=Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Lmschr. iii. 1. 537 f. 
no. 4155, 5 ff.=J. v. Prott and L. Ziehen Leges Graecorum sacrae ii. 359 ff. no. 146, 5 ff. 
a decree of the Lindians érevdy mXeic|rav mpdvoray 6 cbmumas Samos (1)[etrac] eis TO | Tas 
Tod Avovicou reas ovr[rypeiv Kad@s Kal] | dyGvas Tedeiy Kal movias Kal Ouotas [els a]let 
Du(wA)[lows | xopaya&v movovmevoar aip[eow] | kal mwoderrav kal Edvwv, dmolws 6é Kali Atvdc]\oe 
els Tay tort Tov Bedy edoéBeray [pidoTmody]|Tar, deddxAar Awdiows, KupwHévTos Tod|\de ToD 








Waploparos, Ta wev dra Tava yel\vecOar wept T(@)v DuwOl(w)y Kara Tap[xator] | (€?)coua 
Aw6i(w)[v* mor]lacpelcOwv [dé Tol émiardrar] | Tol dei év apxd (€)dvres mort Trois Ex moheTGv] | 
alpouuévors xoparyots Kal dANo(uv)s yopuryo(d)s | éx Tov KaToKedyTwy Kal yewpyetvTwv Ev | 
Awdia mode Eévous &, x.7.X. I follow the text as printed by L. Ziehen, except that in 
line 8 f., where C. Schumacher cj. [dyeu a]lel év or [éxdory ér]iec and L. Ziehen [ravdnu]lel, 
I prefer W. Dittenberger’s [eis d]jeé. With the Lindian celebration of Sminthia for 
Dionysos cp. Apollon. dex. Hom. p. 143, 9 ff. Bekker ZyuvOed- émiderov ’Amd\\wvos Kata 
Tov “Aplorapxov amd modews Tpwikns DulvOns cadoupévns, 6 d€ ’Amiwy amd Tov pwvay ot 
ouivOa KadrodvTa. Kal év ‘Pddw DuivOra Eoprh, dre Tv puGy more AuMaWwouévwy TOY KapToOV 
Tov aumehdvev ’Amd\NwY Kal Arévucos diéPOerpay Tovs putas. x.T.X. and Athen. 445 A—B 
’AvOéas 6€ 6 Aivdtos,...8s pyot Pi6dnuos (G. Dindorf restored ®iAduvyoros from Athen. 
74.F) év 7@ wept Tov év ‘Pddw LuwGiwy (Philomnestos frag. 2 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 477 f. 
Miiller)), ...rdvra roy Blov édiovvclager, écOArd Te Acovvotaxyy popwy Kal mo\dovs Tpépwv 
cuuBakxous. é&yé Te kOuov del wel’ qudpay Kal vixrwp. x.T.X. See further Nilsson 
Gr. Leste. 307 te 

3 Plout. symp. 3. 1. 3 6 dé Acévucos ob pdvoy TQ Tov otvoy ebpeiv laxupbTaTov PapyaKkoy 
kat ndvctov "larpds évouicOn pérpios, ddd Kal TH Tov KiTTOV avTITaTTOMEVOY pdLOTA TH 
duvduer mpos Tov oivoy els Tiny mpoayayely Kal crepavodcbar diddEat Tods BaxxEvovTas, ws 
HTTOV Wd TOD olvou dvi@VToO, TOD KiTTOD KaTacBevviyTos THY UEOnv TH PuxXpoTynTt, Athen. 22 E 
émirejobai poe Soxodce kal Tod IvOccod xpyomod, dy avaypdper Xauarhéwy (on whom see 
Wendling in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 2103 f.)* Hikoou ras mpd kuvds kai elkoor Tas 
Merémetta | olkw évl cxreps Arcoviow xphobar "Intp@ (quoted also by Euseb. praep. ev. 5. 
30. 1). kal Mvyoldeos dé ’A@nvatos (on whom see W. A. Greenhill in Smith Dict. Biogr. 
Myth. ii. 1107) Atévucov "larpév pyor thy IvOiav xphoa tiuav ’APnvalors, 36 B (Mvyaldeos 
dé py) id Kal KaNeloOar Tov Acévucoy mavraxod | Iatpév. 7 dé Ilveia <moré xpwpévars ?> | 
elpnxé tise Acdvucov “Lyidrnv xadetv (paraphrased by Eustath. zz Od. p. 1624, 37 ff. otrw 
yap ay uh Barrouévov Tod mivoyvros Kad@s av 6 Acévucos xadotro "larpés, ere dé kal byelas 
airvos, kabbTt Kai 7 IIvOla etpné tise Acévucov ‘Tyidrny Kaheiv, drep éotw alviyua Tov Tov 
olvov by.acriKoy elvat). 

+ With the refrains of Philodamos’ paidn (supra p. 243 n. 3) evot & 1d Baxx’ w ié 
lady and dé Tardy, 1c cwrnp, x.7.d. cp. the lines (2d. 58 ff.) Modoa: [8°] avrixa mapbévor | 
[coe] orelWlduevar Kika oe waco | ulédyav] aOdva[rov] és del | ILacav’ evxdéa 7’ o[ xt 
kdéoluloau [ka]rapte & ’AmdAXwv, Orph. A. “viet. 52. 11 Macav xpvoeyx7js (E. Abel prints 
G. Hermann’s cj. 6upseyx7s, cp. Orph. 2. Dion. Bass. triet. 45.5), broxé\mte, BorpudKorpe, 
Colum. de ve rust. 10. 217 ff. ista canat, maiore deo quem Delphica laurus | inpulit... 
et...extimulat vatem...Bacchea voce frementem | Delie te Paean, et te Euhie Euhie Paean. 
Note also Hesych. IHatdyios+ Acéyucos, id. Avados: 6 Atévucos rapa Ilalwow. Attempts 
to tinker Avados (Gerhard Gr. A/yth. p. 488 proposes Dryalos, cp. Hes. sc. Her. 187 ; 


at Delphoi 251 
Daldeia in Lydia’, and Dionysodétes(?) in the Attic deme of Phlyeis?. 


H. Lewy in the Jahro. f. class. Philol. 1893 xxxix. 768 suggests *Avados=Avaios) are 
unsuccessful. J. Toepffer Avtische Genealogie Berlin 1889 p. 39 f. connects the Attic 
phratry Avadjjs and of. cit. p. 40 n. t would alter Hesych. tddixos Kaun: Acovicros into 
Avadixds Kéun* «.7.’. W. Tomaschek in the S7tzungsber. d. kais. Akad. d. Wiss. in 
Wien Phil.-hist. Classe 1894 cxxx. 42 f. translates Avados by ‘der ‘‘Rasende, Tolle, 
Stiirmische”’ (@%w, cp. the Bacchic Ouddes and Hesych. Ovdévyn: 4 Teuédrn). But we 
cannot, I think, dissociate Hesych. Avados* 6 Acévucos rapa Iaiwow from Hesych. Avanés* 
6 Atévucos. May we not conclude that Avados means the ‘ Wet’ (devw) and Avadés the 
‘Dry’ (a¥w, adios, avadéos)? Cp. ‘Ilya the Wet’ and ‘Ilya the Dry’ (swgra i. 184). 

° Hesych. Ovios* ’Amd\\wy év Mirijry. 

1 Artemid. oxetvocr. 2. 70 <Tov > Aanddcaiov (so cod. B for év Aaddig vulg.) ’AmdAAwva, 
bv Morn Kadoduey tuets marpdw dvouarr. A 
copper of Septimius Severus shows the god in 
his temple (Brz¢. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 71 
pl. 8, 5=my fig. 169). 

2 Paus. 1. 31. 4 Prvevor dé elor...’A7d\AwVos 
Avovucodérov Kal “Apréutdos LetacPdpov Bwpol 
Avovicov re ’Av@iov kal vuuddv “Iounvidwr Kal 
Tjs, 7v Meyddnv Oedv dvoudfovcr. The supposed 
cult-title Acovucddoros (in Paus. g. 35.3 Kal ’Ay- 
yeXlwv te kal Texratos tédcor ye Acovicovt roy 
*ATO\wva Epyacduevor AnNias x.7.\. T. Bergk 
ingeniously cj. of rdv Acovvaddorov ; but ??) has 
been explained as ‘le produit de quelque com- 
binaison savante due aux travaux d’un collége de 
prétres établis dans cet endroit’ (R. de Tascher 
in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1891 iv. 8) or attributed to 
the importation of Apollon Aagyynddpos from 
Thebes by the ‘ Dionysiac’ clan to which the Theban and Attic Aigeidai belonged 
(E. Maass in the Gé¢t. Gel. Anz. 1889 cli. 813 ff.), though, since Acoyvaddoros is a theo- 
phoric name of regular formation (W. Pape—G. E. Benseler Wérterbuch der griechischen 
Eigennamen*® Braunschweig 1875 i p. xxviii, F. Bechtel—A. Fick Die Griechischen 
Personennamen* Gottingen 1894 pp. 102f., 104 ff., E. Sittig De Graecorum nomintbus 
theophoris Halis Saxonum rgtt p. 4 f., W. Frohner ‘ Gottergaben’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 
1912 xv. 380 ff., and F. Bechtel Dee historischen Personennamen des Griechischen bis zur 
Kaiserzett Halle a.d.S. 1917 pp. 140 f., 144 ff. give lists of names in -do70- and -dwpo-) 
actually found (Sosibios frag. 5 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 626 Miiller) af. Athen. 678.c rods 
Atovucodérov Tot Adkwvos mardvas, Dittenberger Sy//. zscr. Gr.* no, 268, 95 f. UrpduBrxos | 
Atoyvaodérou ’Amo\Nwuidras), it might rather have been inferred that the altar in question 
was that of a man called Dionysodotos who in the mystic cult of Phlya (on which see 
especially J. Toepffer Attische Genealogie Berlin 1889 pp. 39 f., 208 ff.) played—like 
Pythagoras (supra p. 221 ff.)—the part of Apollon redivivus. However, it is far from 
certain that the title of Apollon was Avovvaddoros. It may have been, and probably was, 
Acovugodérns (cp. é.g. Zeus WNovrodérys suprai. 503). As such it is quoted and expounded 
by Olympiod. zz Plat. Phaed. 67 p. 111, 14 ff. Norvin é7e Ta Sora pwuOeverar Kal év 
T@ Tapadelymatr. 6 yap Advucos, bre TO eldwrov évéOnke TH EodmTpwW, TOUTW épéoTeTo, 
kal orws els TO wav éuepicOyn. 6 dé’Amd\NWY cuvayelper Te avTOv Kal dvayer KabapTiKds 
Ov Peds kal Tod Acovicouv cwrip ws dAnOds, Kal did TODTO Acoyucodérns dvumvetrar (avupvetraL 
ex evpnucirat post A YY -y in ras. M.), cp. zd. 7. p. 43, 14 ff. Norvin was dé dpa ov 











KARI, 


Fig. 169. 





Ta Oppixa éxeiva mapwoet viv 6 IINdtwv, dre 6 Acévucos omapdtrera pev b1d TS Titdvwr, 
evovTat d€ bd TOD Amé\Awvos; 510 cuvaryelperOar Kal dOpolfecGat, ToTéoTw amd THs TiraviKis 


fwqs ért rhy évoed}, Prokl. iv Plat. Aid. p. 83=Orph. frag. 193 Abel ’Opdevs éplarnar 


252 Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


The fact is, they were gods of very much the same general character, 
both young male powers intimately related to Father Sky and 
Mother Earth, both closely connected with vegetation, both famous 
for their ecstatic and orgiastic rites. Small wonder that fusion and 
confusion resulted, when one cult had been amalgamated with the 
other. 

The gradual rapprochement and ultimate identification of Dio- 
nysos with Apollon can be well traced in extant literature. In the 
sixth century B.C. Pythagoras declared that Apollon was the son of 
Silenos*—a view perpetuated by the pedantic systematisers, who 
distinguished five Apollons, the fourth being Apollon WVémzos the 
son of Silenos, born in Arkadia*. In the fifth century B.c. Herodotos 
learnt from the Egyptians that Apollon (Horos) and Artemis (Bou- 
bastis) were children of Dionysos (Osiris) and Demeter (Isis), 
nursed and preserved by Leto. Accordingly Herodotos charges 
Aischylos, who alone of the Greek poets had made Artemis a 
daughter of Demeter, with drawing from the same Egyptian source‘, 
Having already detected one Egyptism in a play of Aischylos’, we 
shall not straightaway scout the notion of a second. Still, we have 
not in this case, as we had in that, the support of a definitely 
Egyptian context. We shall therefore be slow to conclude that 
Aischylos was really Egyptising. More probably he was in Orphic 


TP Bacrrel Acoviow thy wovdda Thy’ Amo\\wrtakiy amrorpérovcay airov rhs els 7d Teravixov 
wAHO0s mpoddou kal rhs eEavacrdcews TOO Bacidelov Opdvouv Kal Ppoupodoay avrov AxpavTov 
év 7H évscet. The Orphists were fond of describing Apollon by titles comparable with 
Atovucodérns ; in a hymn of but 26 lines they dub him B.odwrnv...€hrid0darnv...Znvodorjpa 
(Brodaeus cj. (modorHpa)...Evvodorhpa...mAouvTodorhpa...WuxodorHpa...wpecidwrnv (hk. Ap. 3, 
6, 7; 15, 17, 24, 25 (Abel Orphica p. 285)) ! 

1 L. Stephani in the Comfgte-rendu St. Pét. 1861 p. 57: * Vor allen anderen Elementen 
aber, welche im Wesen dieser beiden jugendlich-schénen Séhne des Zeus gleichmassig 
ausgepragt sind, macht sich bekanntlich der ekstatische Charakter bemerklich, welcher 
an ihrem Gefolge nicht weniger, als an ihnen selbst hervortritt,’ cp. Strab. 468 oi uév otv 
“EAAqves of mretora TH Atovicw mpocébecavy kal re ’AméANwM Kal TH ‘Exdry Kal rais 
Movcars cal Anunrpt, vy Ala (kat dul cod. x), 7d dpytacriKoy way Kal 7d BaxxiKoy Kal 7d 
Xopixdy Kal TO wep Tas TedeTas wvoTiKdy, K.T.X. E. Maass Orpheus Miinchen 1895 p. 185 
notes that in Orph. Avg. g f. Orpheus was inspired to sing Bdxxoro cai ’Amé\\wvos 
dvaxtos | Kévrpw é\avvduevos. 

2 Supra p. 221. 

% Aristoteles ¢heologumena? (= Aristot. frag. 283 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 190 Miiller)) af. 
Clem. Al. protr. 2. 28. 3 p. 21, 7f. Kal réraprov rév ’Apxdda tov DiArnvod- Nésutos obros 
KéxAntar mapa ’Apkdow, Cic. de nat. deor. 3. 57 quartus in Arcadia, quem Arcades 
Nomion appellant, quod ab eo se leges ferunt accepisse, Ampel. 9. 6 quartus Sileni filius 
in Arcadia, cp. Arnob. adv. nat. 4. 15 quadrigas Apollinarium nominum, Lyd. de mens. 
4. 71 p- 124, 4 f. Wiinsch mrodXol 6é é« Tod ddov Aros Alor, Gorep ’AmdAAwves 7 AcdvucoL. 
See further W. Michaelis De origine indicis deorum cognominum Berlin 1898 p. 47 f. and 
Wide Lakon. Kulte p. 254 f. 

4 Hdt. 2. 156, cp. Paus. 8. 37. 6 (Aisch. frag. 333 Nauck2). 

5 Supra i. 341 f. 


at Delphoi 253 


mood'. And like enough it was under Orphic influence that he 
ventured even to equate Apollon with Dionysos, when in an un- 
known play—perhaps the Bassarai—he wrote : 
Apollon of the Ivy, he the Bacchant, he the Seer”. 
Similarly Euripides, another poet who had more than a bowing 
acquaintance with Orphism, in his Lzkymnzos penned the following 
invocation : 
Lord who lov’st the Baytree, Paian, Bakchos, Apollon of the Lyre®. 





Fig. 170. 


Later we get the identification more explicitly stated. In the first 
century of our era Dion Chrysostomos, addressing the Rhodians, 
says: : 

‘Yet some maintain that Apollon, Helios, and Dionysos are all one and the 
same ; and that is your own accepted view*.’ 


The best commentary on this passage is a series of early imperial 
coppers, struck in Rhodes, which has for obverse type (fig. 170)? 


1 See Gruppe Gr. Ath. Rel. pp. 430 n. 2, 1168 n. 7, 1172, 1290 N. 3- 

2 Aisch. frag. 341 Nauck? ap. Macrob. Saé. 1. 18.6 6 xisceds "Amo\NWwY, 6 Baxxeds, 
6 wdytis, The manuscript variants are 6 Baxxetos M1. M2. M3. S. OBAKEIOC P2. 
* OBAKCIOC B.R. 6 Bdxxuos P7. OKABAIOC Pr. d Bdxxe P6. Spdvris P6. Hence 
a prolific crop of conjectures: J. de Meurs 6 kal Baxyos 6 udvtis, Jakob Gronovius 
Q Kuddeds *Amrd\\wv, 6 ’Hptxarraios, 6 Maris (an improvement on Mdcapis), J. Barnes 
ZaBaios, H. Bothe and C. A. Lobeck ’ABatos, F. G. Welcker Kaaios, J. G. J]. Hermann 
Baxxetos, A. Nauck Baxxev’s (adding ‘versus videtur esse Baccapév’). An anonymous 
German scholar in the margin of my copy of L. Jan’s Macrobius has hazarded the 
neologism Baxxeuduarris. 

3 Eur. frag. 477 Nauck? af. Macrob. Saz. 1. 18. 6 décrora pidddadve Baxxe, macdy 
“Amo\ ov etupe. The variants are trifling: BAIAN B. P2. R. ’Aré\\wy R. J. de Meurs 
“Amo\\ov. A. Nauck cleverly suggests the transposition déomora | pidddadve maay Bary’ 
"Amrodov eU\upe. Perhaps we should go one step further and read the compound Baxxd- 
moor, cp. Avovveahééavdpos and the like (F. H. M. Blaydes’ n. on Aristoph. vaz. 499). 

4°Dion Chrys. or. 31 p. 570 Reiske xairou rdv wév ’Ardd\Aw Kal Tov “H\cov Kal roy 
Atévucoy éviol pacw elvar Tov avrév, Kal buts ofrw vouttere. Cp. the Orphic eis” HXcos, els 
Atévucos (supra i. 187 n. 4, 292). 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. pp. cxvi, 263 ff. pl. 42, 3, 6, Hunter Cat. Coins 
ii. 445 no. 85 f., Head Azst. num. p. 642. I figure a specimen from my collection issued 
in the name of the ¢am¢as Hierokles (ETTI || IEPO|KAEYC szc, cp. E. Boisacq Les 
dialectes dortens Paris 1891 p. 164 f.). 


254 Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


the head of a young male deity with the flowing hair of Apollon, 
the rays of Helios, and the ivy-wreath of Dionysos. W. Drexler 
calls him Helios!, B. V. Head calls him Dionysos?: he is both rolled 
into one. And it is interesting to find that Nero, who certainly 





Big. 17f. 


claimed to be Apollon and Helios and probably posed as Dionysos 
to boot’, introduced his own head on similar large-sized coppers 
(fig. 171)* in place of the Rhodian god*, A treatise on epideictic 


1 W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 1206. 

2 B. V. Head in Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins and Hist. num.” loce. cite. 

3 Supra p. 96 n. 3, infra Append. M med. 

4 Morell. Zhes. Num. Imp. Rom. ii. 103 pl. 10, 1 f., Rasche Lex. Num. vii. 1047 f. 
I figure a specimen of this rare coin from my collection: obv. KAIZ AP - AYTO- 
KP[ATOPNEPQ] N Head of Nero, laureate and radiate, to right; rev. POAI Q.N 
Nike on the prow of a ship, holding wreath in right hand, palm in left, with rose 
before her. 

> Nero’s interest in Rhodes (Suet. Ae. 7) and personation of the Rhodian Helios 
will account for some of his vagaries. Thus his vice-gerent in Italy, 66—68 A.D., was 
a freedman named Helius (De Vit Oxomasticon iii. 325, C. Merivale History of the 
Romans under the Empire London 1881 vii. 35 f.). Again, his banqueting-hall was 
circular and revolved day and night like the sky (Suet. Vex. 31)—a suitable abode for 
a would-be sun-god. Lastly, it was no doubt the colossal Helios made for the Rhodians 
by Chares of Lindos (Overbeck Schriftquellen p. 291 ff. nos. 1539—1554) that prompted 
Nero to have a colossus of himself made by Zenodoros (Plin. zat. Azst. 34. 45) and set up 
in the vestibule of his Golden House (Suet. Wer. 31), cp. Mart. ef. 1. 70. 7 f. nec te 
detineat miri radiata colossi | quae Rhodium moles vincere gaudet opus. Vespasian had 
the big figure repaired (Suet. Ves. 18) and re-erected in the same place (Dion Cass. 
66. 15, Hieron. chron. ann. Abr. 2091=76 A.D.: Euseb. chron. ann. Abr. 2090 (il. 158 
Schoene) and Synkell. chvon. 342 B (i. 647 Dindorf) say 6 koNocods ‘Pédou !): but the 
usual statement that he substituted the head of Apollo for that of Nero is not sufficiently 
supported by Mart. 22d. spect. 2. 1 sidereus...colossus; the statue may well have been 
radiate from the outset. Hadrian caused his architect Decrianus to move it, by means of 
two dozen elephants, to its later position near the northern entrance of the amphitheatre ; 
he also re-dedicated it to Sol, and commissioned Apollodoros of Damaskos to make a 
pendant figure of Luna (Spart. v. Hadr. 19. 12 f., cp. Plin. zat. hist. 34. 45). Commodus 
cut the head off and replaced it by a portrait-head of himself ; moreover, by adding a club 
and a lion he transformed the whole figure more szo into a Hercules (Dion Cass. 72. 22, 
Herodian. 1. 15. 9, Lamprid. v. Commod. 17. 10: according to the Chron. Pasch. 263 D 
(i. 492 Dindorf) and Synkell. chvon. 3548 (i. 668 Dindorf) Commodus beheaded the 
colossus of Rhodes and substituted a likeness of himself; Kedren. hist. comp. 251 C 


at Delphoi 255 


oratory traditionally ascribed to Menandros the rhetorician of Lao- 
dikeia on the Lykos (¢. 270 A.D.)!, but more probably composed 
by an anonymous rhetorician of Alexandreia in the Troad?’, con- 
cludes with an appeal to Apollon Smznthios : 


‘But, Sminthian and Pythian god,—for with thee my discourse began, and 
with thee shall it end—by what titles shall I address thee? Some name thee 
Lykeios, some Délios, others Askraios, others again Aktios. At Sparta men 
call thee Amyk/laios, at Athens Patréios, at Miletos Branchidtes. Every town 
and country and nation thou dost traverse. Yea, even as thou dost dance round 
the sky with the choruses of the stars about thee, so dost thou traverse the 
whole world of men. The Persians naine thee Mithras, the Egyptians Horos— 
for thou bringest round the seasons (#éraz) in their circuit—, the Thebans 
Dionysos ; and the Delphians honour thee with a twofold title, calling thee at 
once Apollon and Dionysos. About thee are the Muses(?), about thee the 
Maenads. From thee the moon too gets her radiance, and the Chaldaeans name 
thee leader of the stars. Whether, then, thou carest for these titles, or for others 
better than these, grant that our city may ever enjoy full prosperity, and that 
this festival may for ever be held on thy behalf. Give grace, moreover, to the 
words that are spoken ; for of thee come speech and city alike®’ 


(i. 441 Bekker) carries the confusion further by asserting that Commodus decapitated the 
colossus of Rhodes and placed its head on his own statue!). But these accessories were 
afterwards removed (Lamprid. 7. Commod. 17. 9), and in the fourth,century A.D. the 
Neronian image once more had a rayed crown (Curtosum urbis regionum xtv reg. iv 
= Notitia regionum urbis xiv reg. iv (H. Jordan Topographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum 
Berlin 1871 ii. 546)). Its base of brickwork is still 2 site (H. Jordan—C. Huelsen 
op. cit. Berlin 1907 i. 3. 320 ff.). The probability is that from first to last the colossus was 
recognised as the sun-god. If it bore the features of a Nero or a Commodus, we must 
remember that the former had posed as the Rhodian Helios and the latter at least as 
Hercules (R. Peter in Roscher Lex. AZyth. i. 2987 ff., Class. Rev. 1906 xx. 418). 

1 W. Christ Geschichte der griechischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1898 p. 755 f. 

°C. Bursian ‘Der Rhetor Menandros und seine Schriften’ in the Adz. d. bayer. 
Akad. 1882 Philos.-philol. Classe xvi. 3. 17 ff. 

3 Td. 1b. p. 151 prints the passage (=C. Walz Rhetores Graecz Stuttgartiae et Tubingae 
1836 ix. 329 f., L. Spengel Rhetores Graect Lipsiae 1856 iii. 445 f.) thus: dAN’ b DulyOe 
kal Ilv@ce, aro cod yap apEduevos 6 Abyos els oe Kal KaTavThoer (TeNeuTHTEL M. m.), trolacs 
oé mpoonyopiars mporpbéyEouat ; of wev cé Ad’Kevov (NUKLoV p.) Aéyougw, of dé Anduov, ddNot 
(of M. m.) 62 ’Acxpatoy, &drXou 6é”Axriov, Aaxedaywdvioe dé "AwuKDdatoy (édoe 5é ”AKTLoV— 
’Auvkdatov om. M.), ’A@nvato. matpworv, Bpayxidtny Midrjoor: macav wow kal mracay 
Xepav kal wav €Ovos diérets kal kabdmwep Tov ovpavdy Tepixopevers EXwv Tepl ceavToy Tovs ° 
Xopods Tv aorépwy (doTpwv M. m.), ofrw kal Thy wacay olkoupévny (olkoumevny macay M. m.) 
Ovérrers' Ml@pav ce Ilépoar Néyovow, “Qpov Alyimrioi—avd yap Tas wpas els KvKdov (els 
KUKNov Tas Wpas M.m.) dyers—Acdvucov OnBator, Aeddpol dé SurdH mpoonyopla Timor Tov 
[atrov] ’Amé\\wva (*riyndor Tov "Amé\\wva p. Tiu@ow ’Amd\\wva M.m.) kal Acdvucoy 
NévyouTes* mepl cé tAodpar (Povpar p. (‘die Buchstaben sind mit neuerer Tinte nachgezogen, 
iiber dem a erkennt man noch iiber der Zeile ein a von erster Hand’). @upata M. m. 
C. Walz cj. @npia, L. Spengel wodcar, C. Bursian“Qpa. But cp. Hesych. Oovpides: vippar. 
Movoa, Maxedéves, supra i. 111 n. 2f.), wepi cé Ouddes* mapa gov Kal oehjvy THY aKTiva 
NauBdver* KaNdatou dé (5€ om. p. C. Bursian cj. sé XaNdaior) dorpwv nyewdva Neyourw: 
elt’ otv ravrais xalpers (xalpors m.) Tats mpoonyoplais (elr’—zpoonyoplats om. M.), etre 
TouTwy dpelvoot, od (cot M. cé m.) pév akudgew del rats evdaruovlas thy modu dldou, 
€oael d€ THvde auvyKpoTeicbal co (axudfew Tals eddamoviats Thy ToAW del THVOE didov Kal co 


256 Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


Towards the close of the fourth century Servius @ propos of Aeneas 
and his comrades, whom Virgil had described as worshipping the 
Delian Apollo with bent heads}, remarks : 


‘We should realise that, in accordance with the character of the deity ad- 
dressed, the worshippers look sometimes down, sometimes up ; for some powers 
are heavenly, others earthly, others a blend of both. Hence now, when be- 
seeching Apollo, they turn towards the ground, since he is at once himself and 
Sol and Father Liber, who descended to the dead—as Horace puts it: “ Cer- 
berus saw thee and harmed thee not*.” So they do well to turn towards the 
ground : it is from the ground that oracular responses come to them, and Apollo 
is known even to the dead below*’ 


Elsewhere, commenting on Virgil's apparent equation of the sun 
and moon with Liber and Ceres‘, Servius attributes the same unita- 
rian doctrine to the Stoics : 


‘The Stoics hold that there is but one god and one goddess, and that it is 
the self-same power which is called by various names according to its functions 
and activities. Hence, on the one hand, they identify Sol, Liber, and Apollo ; 
on the other, Luna, Diana, Ceres, Iuno, and Proserpina. Virgil—so they main- 
tain—has here invoked Liber and Ceres in place of Sol and Luna®.’ 


Again, Servius cites a similar view from a neo-Platonic source: 


‘But, according to Porphyrios’ book entitled 7he Suz, it is clear that the 
power of Apollo is threefold, and that we should identify Sol in heaven, Father 
Liber on earth, Apollo under the earth. And this is why we see three attributes 
grouped about his effigy—the lyre which represents to us heavenly harmony, 


avyKporetobac M. m.) Thy mavyyupw* vedoor dé kal xapw rots Noyous, mapa cod (apd cou p.) 
yap ot (yap kat oi M. m.) Adyar Kai 7 wéXts. 

1 Verg. Aen. 3. go ff. 2 Hor. od. 2. 19. 29. 

3 Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 3. 93 et sciendum pro qualitate numinum orantes interdum 
ima, interdum summa respicere ; nam potestates aliae caelestes sunt, aliae terrenae, aliae 
permixtae: unde nunc Apollinem deprecantes terram petunt. ipse est enim et Sol et 
Liber Pater, qui inferos petiit, ut Horatius ¢e véd¢¢ insons (sic F.m. insomnis L. H. M. 
in somnis E.) Cerberus. bene ergo terram petunt, unde ad eos responsa perveniunt, et. 
quia Apollo etiam inferis notus (motus F.) est. 

4 Verg. georg. 1. 5 ff. vos, o clarissima mundi | lumina, labentem caelo quae ducitis 
annum, | Liber et alma Ceres. 

® Serv. zz Verg. georg. t. 5 Stoici dicunt non esse nisi unum deum et unam <deam>, 
* eandemque (esse) potestatem, quae pro ratione officiorum nostrorum (f70 nostrorum deg. 
et actuum) variis nominibus appellatur. unde eundem Solem, eundem Liberum, eundem 
Apollinem vocant. item Lunam, eandem Dianam, eandem Cererem, eandem Iunonem, 
eandem Proserpinam dicunt: secundum quos, pro Sole et Luna, Liberum et Cererem 
invocavit. The passage is cited by Myth. Vat. 2 Arvooem. Stoici dicunt non esse nisi unum 
deum et unam deam, eademque esse potestate ; qui pro ratione officiorum et actuum yariis 
nominibus appellantur (eandemque esse potestatem, quae pro ratione officiorum variis 
nominibus appellatur C.D.). deum (unde C.D.) eundem Solem, eundem Liberum, 
eundem Apollinem vocant. item deam eandem (deam eandem om. C. D.) Lunam, eandem 
Dianam, eandem (om. C, D.) Cererem (om. D.), eandem Junonem, eandem Proserpinam 
dicunt. numina autem utriusque sexus esse videntur, ideo quia incorporea sunt. Cp. 
Sery. wm Verg. Aen. 4. 638 (=J. von Arnim Stoicorum veterum fragmenta Lipsiae 1903 
ii. 313 no. 1070). 


at Delphoi ys 


the griffin which shows him as an earthly deity too, the arrows which mark him 
as a destructive god of the underworld!’ Etc. 


Finally, Macrobius (c. 400 A.D.), after adducing the Aeschylean and 
Euripidean evidence already quoted? by way of proof that Mount 
Parnassos was not sacred to two diverse deities, puts his case thus?: 


‘We began with the statement that Apollo is the sun. We next showed that 
Father Liber is none other than Apollo. Consequently there can be no doubt 
that Sol and Father Liber refer to the same god. Nevertheless this shall be 
established by yet clearer arguments. Mystic religion in its rites observes the 
following rule: when the sun is in the upper or diurnal hemisphere, it is called 
Apollo ; when in the lower or nocturnal, it is held to be Dionysos‘, that is Father 
Liber.” ‘Ete: 


In short, it appears that a variety of influences—Pythagorean, 
Egyptian, Orphic—tended towards the assimilation of Dionysos 


1 Serv. zz Verg. ec/. 5. 66 sed constat secundum Porphyrii librum, quem Solem 
appellavit, triplicem esse Apollinis potestatem, et eundem esse Solem apud superos, 
Liberum Patrem in terris, Apollinem apud inferos. unde etiam tria insignia circa eius 
simulacrum videmus—lyram quae nobis caelestis harmoniae imaginem monstrat, gryphen 
quae eum (see H. A. Lion ad doc! n. 66: Myth. Vat. 3. 8. 16 has more correctly gryphen 
gui eum) etiam terrenum numen ostendit, sagittas quibus infernalis deus et noxius in- 
dicatur. The passage is quoted by Myth. Vat. 3. 8. 16 and, in a shortened form, by 
Myth. Vat. 2. 18 (where G. H. Bode would rightly restore gryphem as against A. Mai’s 
guadrigam). 

2 Supra p. 253. 

3 Macrob, Sat. 1. 18. 7 f. sed licet, illo prius [Sa¢. 1.17. 7 ff.] adserto eundem esse 
Apollinem ac solem, edoctoque postea [Sa¢. 1. 18. 1 ff.] ipsum esse Liberum patrem 
qui Apollo est, nulla ex his dubitatio sit Solem ac Liberum patrem eiusdem numinis 
habendum, absolute tamen hoc argumentis liquidioribus astruetur. in sacris enim haec 
religiosi arcani observatio tenetur, ut sol, cum in supero—id est in diurno—hemisphaerio 
est, Apollo vocitetur, cum in infero—id est in nocturno—Dionysus, qui est Liber pater, 
habeatur. 

4 An etymologising (vwW&+7dcos or HéAcos !) explanation of Nuxréduzos, a title borne by 
Dionysos at Megara (Paus. I. 40. 6 wera dé Tod Ards 76 Téuevos és THY axpbmo\w aveNOovar 
-Kadounévny amd Kapds Tod Popwréws Kal és nuds ére Kaplay éort ev Avcovicov vaos NuxteNlov, 
memoinrat dé ’Adpodirns “Emicrpodias iepdy kat Nuxros cadovpevoy éore wavtetov Kai Ards 
Koviov (L. C. Valckenaer cj. Kpoviov. Welcker Gr. Gétterl. i. 642 n. 75 cj. Kwviov, 
‘kegelformig, metae modo.’ K. F. Hermann in Phzlologus 1848 iii. 518 cj. cxoriov or 
x9oviov. And H. Hitzig—H. Bliimner ad /oc. state that the text ‘scheint keine plausible 
Erklarung zuzulassen.’ Zeus ‘of the Dust,’ cp. Pind. Nem. 9. 102 €v Kovia xépow, was 
possibly chthonian, but more probably the god that sent dusty weather—a very material 
consideration in Greece, where the ancient wayfarer—witness Plat. ve. 496 D—was glad 
to take shelter from the swirling dust-storm behind the nearest wall and the modern 
hotel-manager keeps a man in the hall to flap your boots with a feather-broom) vads ovK« 
éxwv dpopov), at Delphoi (Plout. de E apud Delphos g cited sepra p. 234), and doubtless 
elsewhere (Ov. met. 4. 15, ars am. 1. 567, Anth. Pal. 9. 424. 14=h. Dion. 14 (Abel 
Orphica p- 284), Nonn. Dion. 7. 349, 22. 6, 27. 173, 44- 203). But the title certainly origi- 
nated in the fact that Dionysiac rites were held at night (Plout. geaestt. Rom. 112, et. mag. 
p. 609, 20f., schol. Soph. Avt. 1147): see further Soph. Azt. 1146 f., Eur. Zon 1074 ff., 
Bacch. 485 ff., Aristoph. raz. 340 ff., Verg. georg. 4. 521, Hesych. 5.v. vuxredeiv, and the 
epithets vuxrépios (Orph. 2. viet. 52. 4), vuxriodos (Eur. frag. 472, 11 Nauck? cited 
supra i. 648 n. 1 cp. i. 667 n. 4, Nonn. Dion. 7. 288), vuxripans (Nonn. Dion. 44. 218). 


C. IL. 17 


258 Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


and Apollon, who were completely unified by the solar syncretism 
of the Graeco-Roman age. But it would bea gross blunder to regard 
these two as identical from the outset. Rather they were analogous 
gods, of whom one proved a not uncongenial intruder upon the 
other. The welcome guest became in time a recognised member of 
the family circle, and ultimately the main representative of the house, 
his former naturalisation having been obscured by the later develop- 
ments of religion and philosophy. 

The situation thus arising may be illustrated by a short sequence 
of Greek vase-paintings'!. A polychrome /el¢ke from Jiiz Oba, now 
at Petrograd (pl. xvi)?, Attic work of the fourth century B.C, 
has for its principal figures the earlier personnel of the Delphic 
oracle. The obverse design shows Zeus, with golden bay-wreath 
and sceptre, enthroned beside Themis, who, clad in a chztén and a 
himdtion partly blue partly red, sits on the yellow-touched gold- 
filleted omphalés, her left foot raised upon a stone. God and goddess 
are in earnest conversation, as befits the supreme counsellors of all 
the world*®. The subject of their talk is presumably the glorification 


1 The Etruscan mirror from the Luynes collection (Gerhard zr. Spiegel iv. 24 f. 
pl. 292), now at Paris (Babelon—Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. Nat. p. 517 f. 
no. 1300 fig.), adduced by Miss Harrison in her 7hemis p. 442 f. fig. 136 as representing 
Apollon and Dionysos w/s-d-vis with the sun’s disk between them, would make a delightful 
illustration of the same point. But unfortunately the interpretation of the second figure 
as Dionysos is far from certain. The duc de Luynes in the Bell. ad. Just. 1848 p. 36 
described it as Diana; E. Gerhard Joc. ci¢., E. Babelon and J. A. Blanchet /oc. cz¢., as 
Artemis. 

2 Stephani Vasensamml. St. Petersburs ii. 324 ff. no. 1793, id. Compte-rendu St. Pét. 
1860 p. 39 ff. Atlas pl. 2, 1 f.=Reinach Rép. Vases i. 3, 1 f., C. Strube Studien tiber den 
Bilderkrets von Eleusis Leipzig 1870 p. 86n., Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 181 K, 
183, 185f, Ween. Vorlegebl. A pl. 9, 1, ©. Robert Archaeologische Maerchen aus alter 
und neuer Zeit Berlin 1886 p. 18s ff. pl. 3, W. Klein ‘Zur Einleitungsscene der Kyprien’ 
in the Jahré, d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1894 ix. 251 ff. fig. 1, and above all Furtwangler— 
Reichhold Gr. Vasenmatlerei ii. 46—50 fig. 21 f. pl. 69 (=my pl. xvi). Height 0°443™. 

3 Themis as an earth-goddess (swfra p. 176 n. r) knows the right order of events and 
from experience of the past can give good advice for the future. In poetry she is e¥Bovdos _ 
(Pind. O/. 13. 11, Zsthm. 8. 68 cited infra § g (h) ii (x). frag. 30. 1 Schroeder cited supra 
p- 37 n. 1), 6pA6Bovdos (Aisch. /#. v. 18), mwurd (Bakchyl. 14. 55, cp. /rag. adesp. 82 A 
as completed by Bergk* ad J/oc.), in prose Bovdaia (Plout. praec. ger. retp. 5, Synes. 
de regno 15 (Ixvi. 1093 Migne)). 

Zeus is wise as a forefather (Aisch. suppl. 592 ff. marnp puroupyds adroxecp avat | yévous 
Tahadppwv péyas | TEXTWY, TO TAY AXap oUpios Leds. Cp. for his wisdom as conceived 
by Aischylos P. v. 61 f., suppl. 1058 f., and the remarks of W. Kausche in the Desserta- 
tiones philologicae Halenses Halis Saxonum 1888 ix. 137), as a magician (svfrai. 14 N. I, 
758 n. 1f.), as an all-seeing sky-god (swfva i. 187 n. 9, 196f., 459 ff., 731 n. 1, 783), and 
as ideal mind (Nonn. Dion. 20. 266 mepiccovdo.0 Ads, Tzetz. chil. 6. 930 6 Leds 6 voos 
0 mdvoogos, proleg. alleg. 315 6 Leds yap voids éxédeuce, alleg. Od. 1. 163 & Zed, od vod 
kal ppdviwe). But it is as a chthonian god or, more strictly, as a god associated with 
chthonian goddesses that he gives counsel to men. Thus he is Zeus BouvAevs in Mykonos 
(seepra i. 668 f., 717 n. 3, with Demeter and Kore), Zeus EvBovdAe’s in Amorgos (supra 


[yorunyy *4)-"y uuewxoNAg “q Sassay Jo uoIsstussd Aq 69 *|d zacagveuuasy 4 ay SIYIITAS) PLOYYIAY—A9| SUMAN FT WOT] 
“yy QSz asvg 9aS 
‘SIWOY T, YIM JOSUNOD soye} snez : eqgQ znf{ WoL ayyzag awoIYA[Og 


OOOO OTaTATA 


aw Ons YOVONG 





IAX 981d 





at Delphoi 259 


i. 669 n. 2 with Demeter and Kore), Paros (supra i. 669 n. 2 with Hera, Demeter 
Thesmophéros, Kore, Baubo), Delos (szfra i. 669 n. 2, 717 n. 3, with Demeter and Kore), 
Kyrene (Hesych. EvBovdevs* 6 WdovTwv. mapa dé rots moddots 0 Leds ev Kupyyy). At 
Mantineia a limestone block inscribed ALOZEYBOLAEO® in lettering of s. iv or 
early 5. iii B.C. was found in the middle of the Bouleuterion (G. Fougeres in the Azd/. 
Corr, Hell. 1896 xx. 133 f. no. 8=Juscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. ii no. 289), cp. Diod. 5. 72 
dudmep abrov mpocayopevOnvar Znva ev amd Tov doxety Tots avApwros alriov elvar Tov 
Cav....evBoudéa 5€ kai pnriérny dud thy ev TH BovdevETAar Kad@s ctveow. At Athens the 
Bouleuterion included a sanctuary of Zeus BovAatos and Athena BovAala (Antiph. ov. 6. 45 
kal €v ad’t@ T@ BovAeuvrnplw Avos Bovdalou kat "AOnvas Bovdalas iepdv éort, cal elordyTes oi 
BovXeutal mpocevxovrat, cp. Ulpian. zz Dem. zz Mid. 115 mas yap av mpocedéEaro THv 
Buctav 6 Leds 6 Bovdatos, 6 Leds 6 Néu<e>vos, ef roodros Av Anuoobérns ;), whose joint 
priest is mentioned in inscriptions (Corp. zzscr. Adt. iil. 1 no. 272 a seat in the theatre 
iepéws | Ards BovAaiov | kat ’A@nvads Bovdalas, no. 683 of s. ii A.D. [6 Ohuos? Tov lepléa 
Au[és Bou]Aatou kal | [’A@n]vas Boudail[as] «.7.d.): Zeus had a xdéanon (Paus. I. 3. 5 
BovAaiou dé év air@ Ketrat Edavoy Ards cal’ AmddANwy Téxv7n Metotov kal Ajmos epyov Avowvos), 
an altar (schol. Aischin. de fals. leg. 45 ‘kal rhv ‘Horiay émmmooe tyv Bovdaiav.’ Ards 
nv Bamos év Ty Bouvln. Thv ‘Horiay otv Néyer Thy Bovdaiav Tov Bwudyv avdrod, Tod Ards, Tov 
ovra év TH BovAj. wmooce dé ka0d BovdevThs Hv. k.7.A. The same confusion of the altar 
of Zeus with the hearth of Hestia appears in L. Bachmann Anecdota Graeca Lipsiae 1828 
i. 181, 9 f. Bovdaia: Avds nv Bwuds ev 7H Boudg, ds EXyeTo Bovdala, ws amd THs Boudijs)— 
probably that from which Theramenes was dragged to his death (Xen. Hed/. 2. 3. 52 ff., 
Diod. 14. 4f., Plout. wv, dec. or. 4 intt.)—, and dedications (Corp. inscr. Alt. il. 1 
no. 1025, 16 a list of c. 140—150 A.D. [0 detva rods mpuTdves Kai Tovs auvdpxjovTas ava- 
ypawas Aud BolvAaiw avéénxev], cp. H. G. Lolling in the ’E¢. ’Apx. 1893 p. 86 f.); his 
original consort was perhaps Hestia BovNala (Aischin. de fads. deg. 45 with schol. ad loc., 
Deinarchos af. Harpokr. s.v. Bovdaia and af. Souid. s.v. Bovdaia, Diod. 14. 4, cp. 
Andok. or. 1. 44, 2. 15, Xen. Hell. 2. 3. 52), as.at Sparta (Jmscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. i 
no. 62a 1 ff. Ala Bovdatoy, ‘Hor[lav Bovdaiav]: | épopor of émt ’A[rr|cx[o0-] | «.7.A., cp. 
Corp. inscr. Gr. i no. 1240 iii t with A. Boeckh ad /oc.), at Aigai in Aiolis (R. Bohn 
Altertiimer von Aegae (Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. Erginzungsheft ii) Berlin 1889 
p- 33 ff. fig. 35 epistyle of the Bouleuterion inscribed in Aeolic ’Avriddyns ’Amo\Nwvida 
Ait BodXaiw kal "Ioria BodXaia kal rO daw), and at Pergamon (M. Frankel Dze Zn- 
schriften von Pergamon Berlin 1890 i. £53 ff. no. 246, 47 ff. [@0]oar 6é adra& Kal &ddas | 
Bucias [weyllorur [dvadwuare Tovs iepéas ? éml Tat Bwu.O) THs Bovdal[a]s ‘Eorias | [kJa[t Joo 
[A]id[s tod BJov[Aaiov,] x.7.’., where Michel Lecwezl a’lnscr. gr. no. 515, 47 ff. and 
Dittenberger Orient. Gr. znscr. se/. no. 332, 47 ff. prefer H. Usener’s restoration [60]oac 
6é avrGs cal dddas | Ovolas [emt] cronrale THe Bacay Kal érl roe Bwuo|e x.7.d.), not to 
mention the Greek oath taken by Roman senators (G. M. Thomas in the Gelehrte Anzezgen. 
Herausgegeben von Mitgliedern der k. bayer. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Miinchen 
1860 1. 158 f.). At the Panionion near Mykale Zeus Bovdaios was associated with 
Hera (Corp. znscr. Gr. 11 no. 2909, § ff. epi | THs Sikns THs yevoudvys mepl | THs ieparetns 
Tod Avos rod | (B)ovAniov kai rHs “H(p)n[s]), at Gythion with Helios, Selene, Asklepios, 
Hygieia, etc. (/wscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. ino. 1179, 7 ff. rov lepéa rOv | éripaveordrwn | 
GeGv Ads Bovdaijov cal “HXiov cal Lel[A]qnuns kal ’AckAnm[c]\od Kal “Yyias kal——). At 
Kalchedon he stood alone (Michel Reczezl a’ /uscr. gr. no. 733, 6 f.=Dittenberger Sy//. 
inscr. Gr no. 596, 6 f. iepe? Ads Bovdalov amo ras | [iepwr]eias CCTI). His head 
appears on imperial coppers of Mitylene (4rzt. A/us. Cat. Coins Troas, etc. p. 201 
pl. 40, 3 (=my fig. 172), struck in the time of Valerianus and Gallienus, obv. ZEVCBOV 
AAIOC bust of Zeus to left, rev. € TICTP: BAA-A PICTOMAX OV MVTI- 
AHNAI QIN Asklepios seated to left with pAzd/e in right hand, sceptre in left, and 
snake coiled before him, Head A/is¢. »zm.? p. 562) and coppers of Antiocheia on the 
Maiandros (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 16 no. 13, struck c. the time of 
Septimius Severus, oby. Z[EVC] BOVAAIOC head of Zeus laureate to left, rev. 


17—2 


260 Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


ANTIOX EQN MOPCVNOC river-god Morsynos standing to left with phzd/e in 
right hand and reed in left, Imhoof-Blumer Monn. gr. p. 471 no. 75 obv. XEVC 
BOVAAIOC, rev. read as ..... QN TTOPCVNOC sic, Head Hist. num. p. 608, 
cp. Zeus with Boule(?) on a copper of Neapolis on the Harpasos in Karia, struck by 
Gordianus iii (Imhoof-Blumer A7ezzas. Miinzen i. 148 no. 5)). The title BovAatos was 
transferred to Roman emperors etc. (Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. 11. 594 no. 538, a copper 
of Pergamon in the collection of L. E. Cousinéry, obv. CEBACTOI- KAICAPI- 
BOYAAIQY head of Augustus laureate to right, rev. A: POYPIOS -TYMNASI- 
APXXLN- TTEPIAMH... large vase ona table ; Zzscr. Gr. ins. iii Suppl. no. 1393, 1 ff. 
[Alia Bov]\atov Tepyavixov Kalcapa | [rov marépja Tatov Kaicapos ZeBacrod | 6 dauos be- 
tween no. 1392, I ff. ‘Horiav BovXaiay ’Aypurmivay | trav warépa Datov Kaioapos LeBacrod | 
6 ddmos and no. 1394, 1 ff. [Ad’Toxpdropa Kalolapa | [DeBacrov Overm]acravdy | [6 dapos], 
where M. Frankel Die Jnuschriften von Pergamon Berlin 1890 i. 159 would read [Tov 
véov Ala Bov]\atov Tepuavixdy Katcapa, | [rov owrfpa, marépla Taiov Kalcapos DeBacroi, | 
6 Odmos; Luscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. i no. 1352 a limestone base from Abea inscribed 
‘Adpravod Bov|Aalov. x.7.d., cp. Corp. inscr. Gr. i no. 1167, to=Cougny Anth. Pal. 
Append. 1. 259. 4) from Zeus, to whom it properly belonged (Plout. az send resp. ger. 
Sit 10 Tovs 6€ Tod BovAalov Kal ’Ayopaiou kai Ilo\éws Avds barnpéras ob rroddy épya xal 
XElpav amarotuey GANA Bours Kai mpovolas Kai Néyou, zd. pracc. ger. reip. 5 ove Ards 





APT AOINZY 
ATW 


BovAaiov udvov éxpynfov, Cornut. ¢heol. g p. 9, 16 f. Lang kal Bovdaiov...rpocayopevoucw, 
Achilles zz Arat. phaen. 3 (E. Maass Commentariorum in Aratum religuiae Berolini 
1898 p. 84, 16 ff.) Néyerar yap Kai Bovdatos Zevs kal (so Wilamowitz for ws V.) évios Kat 
eraipecos Pidtos (so Maass for didos V.) PuTaApxos (so Scaliger for durddiwos V.) émixdpreos, 
Scholl—Studemund anecd. i. 265 no. 23 Bovdatou cp. 2. i. 274 n. 18, 282 n. 14) and of 
whom it was a virtual synonym (Lyk. 4é. 435 f. (Kapaneus) 6v ToyyvAdrys fhe Bovdatos 
Munrevs, | dynddrw udoriy. cwOpavoas Kdpa, with Tzetz. ad loc. 6 Leds 6 ToyyvAdras, 6 
ov ai yoyyi\a Kal cwverdrypévar xetpes KwodvrTat, 6 Bovdaios, du’ ov Kal ro Boudevew Tois 
avOpwros éoriv, 6 Mudevs, &’ ob of avOpwroe Tas tras Kal Tods dddvTas KWotoW, # O 
aprodérns, ard THs wwAns, cp. Scholl—Studemund anecd. i. 265 no. 27 yoyyuAdrov, no. 65 
Mudé€ws. O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Lyc. vii. 1585 says: ‘ Vermutlich entspricht 
Zeus G. dem Zeus Palamnaios.’ H. W. Stoll in Roscher Zex. AZpth. ii. 3307 cp. Zeus 
Mvarevs with Iupiter Prstor; L. Bachmann ad Joc. cp. Iupiter Lapis. Was Zeus Toyyvu- 
Adrns connected with turnips (yoyyi’Aac), as lupiter with onions (C/ass. Rev. 1903 xvii. 
270)? And was Zeus Muadevs, like Apollon AZjlas or Mylantios (O. Hofer in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. ii. 3306), the Mylanteioi Theoi (K. Tiimpel 74. ii. 3305 f.), and Promylaia 
(O. Hofer 24. iii. 3110 f.), a protector of mills? Mow déguet. Both titles might be local, 
ToyyvAdrns from some island *ToyyiAn, Mudevs from some town akin to Mvdaca). 
BovAaios meant ‘God of the Cozcz/’ and at most connoted the power of giving cozsel 
(cp. Theokr. 16. 70 Avos uéya Bovdevoyros) ; it is not directly connected with the gzas?- 





Fig. 172. 


at Delphoi 261 


of Athens}, since Athena, who stands before them wearing a golden 
aigts slung across a lilac (?) pép/os spangled with gold and having 
in her left hand a golden spear, on her head a golden red-crested 
helmet, is in the act of receiving a golden olive-wreath from a 
Victory, in a bright-coloured pé/os, poised on wings of blue and 
gold. The remaining figures are less dazzling, being in effect little 
more than conventional ‘ filling’: Selene on her horse led by Hes- 
peros to the right; Hermes in waiting behind Zeus; Aphrodite 
with Peitho to the left. The central group plainly recalls the east 
pediment of the Parthenon; and the same great original, haunting 
the imagination of the painter, has contributed something to his 
Selene, Hermes, and Aphrodite®?, The reverse design represents 
Dionysos seated with Ariadne. Each holds a ¢hyrsos, and Eros 
hovers between them. Dionysos’ panther, caressing Ariadne, and a 
Maenad, with a timbrel at her side, complete the picture. Thus 
front and back of the vase taken together* portray Zeus, Themis, 


magical Bovdy or Bovdat of Zeus (supra i. 14 n. 1). Zeus ’AuBovAos at Sparta (Paus. 
3. 13. 6 mpods TodTw Aids "AuBourlov Kai "AOnvas éotiv "AuBovNlas Bwuos kai Acocxotpwy Kat 
TouTwy ‘AuBovdiwy, Souid. s.v. "AuBovNos: dvoua KUptov z.e. a theophoric name (?)) was 
probably a warlike deity (Wide Zakon. Kulte p. 13 f.), who on some historic occasion, 
unknown to us, had saved the state by a sudden change of plans and was therefore 
worshipped as ‘the Reverser of the Decree’ (cp. Preller—Robert Gr. Myth. i. 145 n. 1, 
O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 1816, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1117 n. 3). 
H. van Herwerden Lexicon Graccum suppletorium et dialecticum” Lugduni Batavorum 1gto 
p. 81 thinks that the Spartans would have called these deities duBwror (szc) and duBwNa. 

1 The vase has been much misinterpreted. L. Stephani /occ. citt., deserted by his 
usual good sense, made the meaning of the obverse turn on the nature of the horse-rider : 
if she were Selene led by one of the Dioskouroi, the other figures from left to right might 
be two Hesperides, Hestia, Hermes, Atlas, Nike, Athena; but if—as he preferred to 
think—she were Artemis Pheradza led by a Satyr, they might -be Iphthime, Alkestis, 
Hestia, Hermes Pheraios, Admetos, Nike, Athena. C. Strube Joc. cit., followed by 
J. Overbeck and A. Furtwiingler /occ. cit¢., made a much better suggestion. The vase- 
painter had been inspired by the opening scene of the Ayfria, in which Zeus took counsel 
with Themis how to lessen the tribes of men that burdened the earth by bringing about 
the Trojan war (Prokl.. chrestom. 1 (p. 17 Kinkel) Zeds Bovdeverac: mera THs O€usdos 
(so C. G. Heyne for codd. 6éridos) rept rod Tpwikod rodguov. mapayevouévyn 5é “Kpis 
evwxoumévav Tav Deady év Tots IInéws yduors vetkos mepl KddXdous éevictnow 'AOnva “Hpa cal 
*Agpodiry, k.7-A. cp. Kypria frag. 1 Kinkel ap. schol. 7/. 1. 5 f.). Strube’s notion that 
the horse-rider was Eris led by Oistros is rightly abandoned by Furtwangler. C. Robert 
foc. cit. put forward the odd idea that Zeus is about to bear Dionysos, who is as yet 
hidden in his left thigh, and that Themis is foretelling the child’s future. Robert takes 
the rider to be Selene led by Phosphoros—an indication that the scene is laid just before 
day-break. W. Klein Joc. cz¢., comparing the famous Dareios-vase (Furtwangler— 
Reichhold Gr. Vasenmalerei ii. 142 ff. pl. 88), will have it that Athena and Aphrodite 
here stand for Hellas and Asia, that the seductive rider is Apate, etc. S. Reinach Joc. cit. 
is eclectic naming the dvamatis personae Peitho (?), Aphrodite, Hestia (?), Hermes, Zeus, 
Nike, Athena, Artemis or Selene led by an éphedos. 

2 Infra § g (h) ii (4). 


3 An objection to my view is that late vases of this type as a rule have for reverse 


262 Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


and Dionysos—the early Delphic triad—in thoroughly characteristic 
surroundings. . 

Another fourth-century vase, likewise found at Juiz Oba and 
preserved at Petrograd’, is a red-figured ratér, which has for 
obverse design a judgment of Paris? comparable with that depicted 
on the ydréa at Karlsruhe*® and for reverse the arrival of Apollon 
at Delphoi (pl. xvii). The scene is marked by the omphalés with 
its fillets and bay-wreath, the palm-tree®, and the tripod®. Dionysos 
—a kingly figure bearded, wreathed with ivy, clad in fine under- 
chitén, richly decorated upper-chzton, and hzmdtion, and holding his 
thyrsos like a sceptre—is evidently lord of the locality’. Round 
him is his retinue, three naked Satyrs and three Maenads, who with 
flutes, lyre, and timbrel make music as their master extends the 
right hand of fellowship* to the youthful Apollon, a simpler per- 
sonage in a dotted #zmdzion with bay-wreath and bay-branch. One 
of the Maenads prepares a seat for him beside the omphalés—a 
sufficiently significant action. The guest has come to stay. And it 
may be added that Zeus and Themis, the original occupants of the 
place, are already relegated to the other side of the vase. 

A later moment is represented on a red-figured bell-hvatér of 


design some commonplace subject (draped youths, etc.) unconnected with the obverse. 
That is true. But there are notable exceptions (e.g. Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1859 p. 32 ff. 
Atlas pl. 1 f.=Reinach és. Vases i. 1, 1 f., 2, 2 or Collignon—Couve Caz. Vases 
@ Athénes p. 590 f. no. 1854), and this may well be one. Robert of. cé¢. p. 190 is not 
averse from connecting the two sides of our vase. 

1 Stephani Vasensamml. St. Petersburg ii. 339 ff. no. 1807. Height o*49™. 

2 Infra § 9 (h) ii (8). 

3 Supra i. 125 f. pl. xi. 

4 L. Stephani in the Compte-vrendu St. Pét. 1861 p. 33 ff. Atlas pls. 3 and 4 (=my 
pl. xvii) =Reinach Aép. Vases i. 7, 5 f., 8, 1, L. Weniger in the Arch. Zeit. 1866 xxiv. 
185 ff. pl. 211, Overbeck Gr. Kanstmyth. Apollon pp. 331 no. 73, 333 Atlas pl. 21, 25 
(central group only), Farnell Cults of Gk. States iv. 316 pl. 17, Harrison Proleg. Gk. Rel.” 
p. 390f. fig. 122, ead. Themis p. 443 f. fig. 137. 

> Recalling the bronze palm at Delphoi (Plout..v. Wze. 13, de Pyth. or. 8, Paus. 10. 
15. 4f.). On the relation of palms to Apollon see L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu 
St. Pét. 1861 p. 68 f. 

5 Omphalds, palm, and tripod are all found on the amphora from Ruvo (supra 
p> DZone 2). 

7 Miss Harrison is a trifle less dogmatic in her Proleg. Gk. Rel. p. 390f.: ‘It is 
perhaps not quite certain which is regarded as the first comer, but the balance is in favour 
of Dionysos as the sanctuary is already peopled with his worshippers.’ 

8 L. Weniger in the Arch. Zeit. 1866 xxiv. 190 f. and Farnell Cults a Gk. States 
iv. 316 suggest that Dionysos is greeting Apollon on his return from the Hyperboreans— 
a possible interpretation. L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pé. 1861 p. 114 after 
many pages reaches the wrong conclusion, 2zz. that Apollon and Dionysos grasp each 
other’s hand merely to show their essential similarity—‘ Eine...rein theoretische, nicht 
dramatische Anwendung des Handschlags’—or, if the gesture has any reference to the 
particular occasion, their unanimity in regard to the judgment of Paris. 


*2Q% adng aa5 
‘Toydjaq 3 soskuoiq SUSIA uoTTOdW : eqQ znf wo AJOAY 











NAX 221d 


yephpor 


6OULeO? oY 


. 
1 


D 


. 


Lis Arect? 


— 
is. 
one 


bax Op? 








*Egz asvg 205 





‘roydjaq 3 soshuoidy jo s1aMoy[oy ay} £q poanouoy uoTjody : wnasny ysnug oy} ul ayouy 





gigas (s} ty] 


> 


Ad 


: 
aa OT 


WAX 938ld 


at Delphoi 263 


Attic style now in the British Museum (pl. xviii). The mountain- 
side with a stepped altar in the foreground stands for the precinct 
at Delphoi?, which is stil] largely Dionysiac—witness the ivy-leaves 
that strew the ground, the company of Satyrs and Maenads, and 
the presence of Dionysos himself. But the principal deity is now 
Apollon, who is seated in the centre with short chztén and em- 
broidered Azmdtion, a bay-wreath round his hair, a bay-branch in 














Ir, 


tj J] 


fo elo, ny ; 
Peeler. | fe ola (ere 


Fig. 173. 











his left hand, a tortoise-shell lyre in his right. He glances over 
his shoulder at Dionysos, who occupies a subordinate seat on the 
extreme left, similarly clad in a short chztén with an embroidered 
himdtion, wearing fillet and ivy-wreath, and holding a ¢hyrsos in one 
hand,ary¢én in the other. His former retainers seem bent on honour- 
ing the new arrival. One of the Satyrs turns towards him, fingering 
a lyre. The other, carrying an ozxochée, offers him an ivy-patterned 
kdntharos. And both Maenads present him with flat baskets of 
fruit. It is clear that Apollon is in process of displacing Dionysos. 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases iv. 50 f. no. F 77, [P. F. Hugues, dit d’Hancarville] Az- 
tiguatés étrusques, grecques et romaines Naples 1767 ii pl. 68, Inghirami Vas. fit¢. ii. 137 f. 
pl. 196, Lenormant—de Witte £7. mon. cér. ii. 222 ff. pl. 74 A, E. Gerhard in the Arch. 
Zeit. 1865 xxiii. 102 ff. pl. 202, 2=Reinach és. Vases i. 397, 6, L. Stephani in the 
Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1861 p. 59 n. 2, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon pp. 326 
no. 53, 330. Pl. xviii is from a photograph of the vase (height 154 inches) in its present 
condition. Previous illustrations are grossly inaccurate, Dionysos having been restored as 
a nude goddess and many details wrongly repainted. 

* This may be disputed, since the o#fhaldés does not appear (are we to think of it as 
concealed beneath Apollon’s drapery?). But the painting fills a gap in a series of 
undoubtedly Delphic scenes, and Gerhard /oc. czt. p. 102 was probably right in describing 
it as ‘ Apollon zu Delphi.’ 


264. Dionysos displaced by Apollon 


The displacement is well nigh complete in the scene painted on 
a late Attic bell-kvatér from Santa Agata de’ Goti, now at Berlin 
(fig. 173). Apollon, with a bordered hzmdtion about his legs, a bay- 
wreath and fillet on his head, and a bay-branch in his left hand, is 
seated on the omphalds, itself garlanded with bay, whilst he dangles 
a sprig of bay-leaves®? over a white deer at his side*. Before him 


1 Furtwangler Vasensamml. Berlin ii. 755 no. 2645, Lenormant--de Witte Z/. mon. 
cér. ii. 139 ff. pl. 45, E. Gerhard in the Arch, Zezt. 1865 xxiii. 106 ff. pl. 203 =my fig. 173 
(omits ground-line. Furtwangler oc. cit. says: ‘Keine Terrainlinien, die Figuren nur 
etwas iiber der Bodenlinie’)=Reinach Aép. Vases i. 397, 7 f. 

* Lenormant—de Witte of. cit. ii. 140: ‘Cette circonstance rappelle la mastication 
de feuilles de laurier que la Pythie mettait dans sa bouche avant de s’asseoir sur le trépied 
fatidique.’ See Soph. frag. 811 Nauck*, 897 Jebb, ap. schol. Hes. ¢heog. 30 dadyny 
payov 6ddvTe mpte 7d ordua, Theophr. char. 16 (28 Jebb) 6 6€ decordaluwy rovodrés ris 
oios...dagvnv els TO oThua NaBwy oltw Tiv Huépay mepurateiv, Lyk. Ad. 6 (Kassandra) 
dapryngaywv polBafev éx Natuav ora with schol. ad oc. elwPacww oi wdvrers dapvas rpoeo- 
Giew, Kallim. zamd. 3.222 f. (A. S. Hunt The Oxyrhynchus Papyri London 1910 vii. 39) 
kat Ilv@in yap év ddgvy pév ldpura, | dagynv 5 delder (Wilamowitz cj. delper, but see 
A. Platt in the Class. Quart. 1910 iv. 113 and A. E. Housman 7d. p. 119) Kal ddg@uny 
imésrpwrat, Plout. symp. 4. 2.3 éuol yap dxpe rovrou Tis alrias wWorep Sdpyns mapareTpwy Ow 
(so J. J. Reiske for raparerdy6w), Loukian. dzs accus. 1 ) mpbparTis...macnoauéyn THs 
dagvys, Athen. 140 D—E kal éoriv ) mapackern TOV Neyoudvwy ematkrwv...di77H. Hv mev yap 
Tots mavol mapéxXovat, mavu Tis EVKONds EoTt Kal EevTEAHS. AAdiTa yap éoTw Ealw dedevpeva, 
a pnot Nexoxdjs 6 Adkwv (frag. 2 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 464 Miiller)) camrrew adrods wera 7d 
deirvov év PINs Sddvns, wapd Kal kawpatidas wev mpocayopeverOar TA PUANa, avTa de TA 
Yarora kdumara (cp. Hesych. s.v.). 671 dé €Oos Hv rots waddar kal PUAa Sdgvns Tpaynuarl(e- 
aa KadNlas (Kyklopes frag. 4 (Frag. com. Gr. ii. 737 Meineke)) 7 Acoxdjs ev Tots Kixdwyi 
gnow otrws* ‘ duddas 7 (so K. G, A. Erfurdt for pd\\a od V. L. pudAdXa ou P. pudaocn A- 


pirdon B.) delrvwv xarddvars* 7 5é (76€ P. 7Hde Meineke, omitting the point before it) 
Kadamep oxnudtwr,” Geopon. 11. 2. 6 Néyouor 5€ Kal TobTO Trepl THs Od@vys, Ore Wyelas éorlv 
épyaotixy. dbev kal Pia airs émdidovra (éredidovro F. M.) rots dpxovor mapa Tod 
djuov TH TpwTn TOD ’lavvovaplou unvds, Kal loxddes, Tzetz. 2x Hes. 0. a. proleg. p. 14 ff. 
Gaisford gaol dé ws évvda Twes EModca yuvaikes kai SpeWdmevar kAdvas Sdgyys ‘ENkwvi- 
Tidos avrov émeciticay, Kal otrw coplas montis émeupbpnro (€umepopynro E. and ed. 
Trincavelli. éumegddpnrac F. and annot. Graevii)....cal yap év 7@ momalvew mepl Tov 
“EXixkGva xabevdjoas 6 “Halodos dvap eldevy évvéa yuvaixas ddgvas alte Pwurfotcas....evbev 
To un Tis TGV véwy vwxeErns Kal Pabuwos Kal auBdds epi Adyous TeAelTw Kal povovouxl 
Kabevdérw Tots rept Tov ‘Halodov tobrov nmrarnucvos wvOois Kal map’ avrov émeOely dadvn- 
popotcas Twas TmapHévovs Kapadokay Ywutfolioas Tas dddvas...ad\d\a Tadra pev TA MvOOTNa- 
orovmeva mepi THs TOD “Hoibdou dapyndparyias x.7.d., Villoison anecd. ii. 186 n. 1 schol. 
cod. 489 Venet. S. Marci de rhapsodia 7) bre wavtixn H Sapyn: ol yap wavTevdmevor EOadyn- 
gdyouw, Tib. 2. 5. 63 f. vera cano: sic usque sacras innoxia laurus | vescar (zzoscar O.), 
Ov. ex Pont. 2. 5.67 gustata (so A. confirming a cj. of R. Bentley in his n. on Hor. od. 
3. 30. 15) et (so Rothmaler for es¢ codd.) laurea nobis, Mart. ef. 5. 4. 1 ff. foetere multo 
Myrtale solet vino, | sed fallat ut nos folia devorat lauri | merumque cauta fronde, non 
aqua, miscet. | ...dicas licebit ‘‘Myrtale bibit laurum,” Iuv. 7. 19 laurumque momordit. 
These multifarious usages—mantic, prophylactic, cathartic, hygienic, etc.—probably go 
back to a belief that the bay-tree was highly charged with divinity (cp. Boetticher 
Baumkultus pp. 264 f., 338 ff., A. de Gubernatis La Mythologie des Plantes Paris 1882 
ii. 188 ff., R. Folkard Plant Lore, Legends, and Lyrics London 1884 p. 404 ff.). It would, 
however, be a mistake to regard the bay as a vegetable form of Apollon (despite his 


at Delphoi 265 


stands a Maenad}, in a richly embroidered féf/os with a wreath of 
ivy on her hair, grasping a couple of lit torches; behind him, a 
similarly draped and wreathed Maenad? carrying a ¢hyrsos, and a 
clumsy dancing Satyr. To the left is Hermes, who beckons the 
théasos away to their nightly revels on the mountain. In the back- 
ground are seen the upper parts of four Doric columns supporting 
an architrave—a rough sketch of the Delphic temple on its terrace’. 
Dionysos, it will be observed, has gone: the Maenads and the Satyr 
are going. 

But even when Apollon had entered into full possession of the 
Delphic seat it was not forgotten that he derived his authority from 
Zeus. Another late Attic bell-ratér, formerly in the Lamberg col- 
lection and now at Vienna (fig. 174)*, shows Zeus instructing 
Apollon in the presence of other deities. Apollon, with a bay- 
wreath on his head, a bay-branch in his right hand, and a bay-bush 
at his left side, sits before the filleted omphal/ds, on the other side of 


epithets Aagvatos, Aag@ynpépos, Aapviras, on which see K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. ii. 46f., t10). The myth of Daphne (L. von Sybel in Roscher Lex. Myth. 
i. 954f., O. Waser in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iv, 2138 ff., Gruppe AZyth. Lit. 1908 
p- 449 ff.) points rather to a close connexion between the tree and the earth-mother. 

° The inhabitants of Dion in Makedonia dedicated at Delphoi 7év ’A7é\\wva ds 
elhnumévos éotl THs éXdgou (Paus. 10. 13.5). See further K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real- Enc. ii. 110. 

1 Furtwangler Joc. czt. says ‘ Artemis’; but the resemblance to the pendant Maenad 
is too close. The ivy-wreath is clearer in Gerhard’s drawing. 

? Furtwangler /oc. cz¢. says ‘ Nymphe’; but the ¢iyrsos is decisive. 

3. Cp. supra p. 170 n. 2. 

4 Laborde Vases Lamberg i pl. 27=Reinach Rep. Vases ii. 183, t (Peitho (?), Zeus, 
Aphrodite on swan, Apollon, Hermes, Athena (?)), Inghirami Vas. fitt. iii. 70 ff. pl. 235 
(apotheosis of Helene! cp. Raoul-Rochette MJonzmens tnédits a’antiguité figurée Paris 
1831 p. 224 *lapothéose a’une tnitzée’ !), O. Jahn in the Azz. d. Just. 1845 xvii. 364 and 
in the Arch. Zett. 1858 xvi. 238 ff. (Zeus announces to Apollon the appearance of Kyrene 
on a swan, cp. F. G. Welcker in the Rhein. Mus. 1847 ii. 498), L. Stephani in the 
Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1863 p. 70 f. (Dionysos (!) and Apollon with Hermes and three 
Muses or Maenads or Thyiads), Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 182 HH, 185 f. Atlas 
pl. 1, 33 Zeus only (Kyrene(?)), H. Heydemann in the Azz. d. Just. 1871 xliii. 114 f. 
(the judgment of Paris ‘trasportato a Delfo per rendere pit: palpabile I’ importanza del 
giudizio e le sue conseguenze per I’ avvenire,’ the figures being Hera, Zeus, Aphrodite on 
swan, Paris(!), Hermes, Athena, cp. G. Minervini in the Bzd/. Arch. Nap. 1845 ili. 79 
=id. Descrizione di alcuni vast fittéli della collezione Jatta Napoli 18461. 23), O. Benndorf 
Griechische und sicilische Vasenbilder Berlin 1877 p. 78 ff. fig. =my fig. 174 (a variation on 
the opening scene of the Ayfria (supra p. 261 n. 1)—Zeus takes counsel with Apollon 
on the strife between the goddesses, which led up to the Trojan war), Furtwangler 
Samml. Sabouroff Vasen p. 14 ff. (Zeus instituting Apollon as god of the Delphic oracle 
(Aisch. Zam. 17 ff.), while the previous occupants depart, Gaia and Themis to right and 
- left, Phoibe on the swan), A. Kalkmann in the /Jahrd. d. hais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1886 
i. 258 ff. (‘Zeus dem Apollo befiehlt, die Kyrene nach Libyen zu senden, und Hermes 
sich anschickt, diesen Auftrag auszufiihren, wahrend die schwesterlichen Nymphen nicht 
ohne Theilnahme nach ihrer zur Abfahrt geriisteten Gespielin sich umschauen’). 


266 ‘The stratification of Delphic Cults 


which stands! Zeus, with bay-wreath and sceptre, announcing to 
his ‘prophet?’ the mandate of omnipotence. Who the remaining 
deities may be and what exactly they are doing, has been the sub- 
ject of much futile discussion. Apparently the painter has utilised 











Fig. 174. 


the type of Hermes conducting Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite to 
the judgment of Paris* merely for the purpose of suggesting a crowd 
of deities. It is as ruler of the assembled gods that Zeus issues his 
royal decrees. 


(yr) The stratification of Delphic Cults. 


We are now in a position to gather up results and to venture 
upon a conspectus of Delphic worship. The main cults appear to 
be stratified as in the following diagram :— 





ill. APOLLON Bay 





ii. DIONYSOS Tripod 





1. ZEUS Afphésios (?) and GE Thémis (?) Eagles and omphalos 

















1 The pose is unusual for Zeus (Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 185 f.), who does 
not appear elsewhere in the attitude of the supported foot (ézfva § g (h) ii (6)). 

2 Supra p. 204 n. 1, infra § 3 (a) vi(r) sub fin. 

* Objections brought against the interpretation of this scene as a judgment of Paris— 
viz. that Athena would then have some distinctive attribute (Furtwangler Joc. cz¢. p. 14) © 
and that Aphrodite would not be riding on a swan (A. Kalkmann Joc. cz¢. p. 259)—lose 
their force, if, as I suppose, the artist is reminiscent and no more ; for in that case he is 
free to contaminate or adapt. 


Zeus and Dionysos 267 


Further, the circumstances suggest that these strata represent 
distinct racial elements in the population, which had arrived, by 
dint of much mutual accommodation, at a joint-recognition of their 
respective deities. Zeus and Ge 7%émzs, the original possessors of 
the sanctuary, were throughout classical times admitted to be the 
ultimate source of the oracles there delivered. Of the younger gods 
first Dionysos, and subsequently Apollon, was affiliated to Zeus. 
And, since they were gods of approximately similar character, the 
populace came to regard them almost as obverse and reVerse aspects 
of the same divinity’. Finally, our survey of the data may enable 
us to hazard at least a provisional guess concerning the races in- 
volved in this curious superposition of cults. Alluvial deposits often 
tell their own tale. 


iv. Zeus and Dionysos. 


Zeus and Ge, the sky-father and the earth-mother, were essenti- 
ally Hellenic, their worship being common to every branch of the 
Hellenes*. The precise character of the relations between them will 
be explained in a later section*, Here it must suffice to observe 
that the early Delphians seem to have worshipped Zeus as a 
storm-god under the title Aphészos, which may be rendered ‘He 
that lets fly’ and Ge as a fertility-goddess under the title 7émzs°, 


1 In this connexion the pedimental sculptures of the temple at Delphoi are noteworthy. 
From fragments found on the site it seems that in the sixth-century building the east 
pediment contained a marble group with Apollon in his chariot as centre-piece, the west 
pediment a gdvos Gigantomachy with Zeus in the middle, Athena to the left of him, 
Dionysos to the right (T. Homolle in the Bud/. Corr. Hell. 1901 xxv. 457—515 figs. 1—6 
pls. g>—16, 18 f., F. Courby 76. 1914 xxxviii. 327—350 pl. 6 f. and in the Fouilles de Delphes 
il. 1. 103 f. fig. 83 pl. 12). And from Paus. ro. 19. 4 Ta dé év Tots derois, orw "Apremts 
kal Anr® cal “Améd\X\wy Kal Modoa dvows re “HAlov kal Acdvucds Te Kai ai yuvaikes ai 
Ouddes. x.7.d. it has been justly inferred that in the fourth-century structure the east 
pediment was occupied by Apollon and deities of his cycle, the west pediment by 
Dionysos and his cortége (T. Homolle in the Bzdl. Corr. Hell. 1902 xxvi. 627--639, 
F. Courby in the Fouz/les de Delphes ii. 1. 20). The numismatic evidence is inconclusive 
(Imhoof-Blumer and P. Gardner Mum. Comm. Paus. iii. 118 ff. pl. X, 22—25, J. N. 
Svoronos in the Az//. Corr. Hell. 1896 xx. 35 f. nos. 53 f. pl. 27, 1o—12, 44 ff. nos. 81—88 
pl. 29, 11—18, T. Homolle 24. 1902 xxvi. 629, F. Courby in the Fouzlles de Delphes il. 1. 21). 

2 For Ge see W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 1566 ff., A. Dieterich A/utter Erde” 
Leipzig-Berlin 1913, Farnell Cults of Gk. States iii. 1 ff., 307 ff., S, Eitrem in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. vii. 467 ff., J. A. Hild in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. v. 73 ff. 

3 Infra § 9 (e) ii. 4 Supra p. 179. 

ESDr Farnell op. cit. Il. 495 sigtitty recognizes ‘that Ge herself developed into a Ge 
Themis, and thence into Themis alone,’ and 2. iii. 13 ff. rejects the notion ‘ that Themis 
began her religious career as the mere personification of the abstract idea of righteousness,’ 
concluding that she ‘was something more concrete than this, and was allied to an earth- 
divinity of fertilizing function.” He compares—as does Gruppe G7. AZyth. Rel. p. 1080 
n. 6—the Themis of Boucheta (Harpokr. s.v. Bovxera*...méds éori rijs “Hreipou,...7v 
Pirocrépavos év rots "Heipwrixots (frag. ga (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 30 Miiller)) wvoudcbae 


268 Zeus and Dionysos 


which probably once denoted ‘She that creates or produces'’—a 
possible doublet of it being the name Thétis. 

Dionysos—as would be admitted by modern scholars* with 
scarcely a dissentient voices—was a god of Thraco-Phrygian ex- 
traction®. And his presence at Delphoi implies that a wave of 
Thracian immigrants had early reached Phokis—a fact attested also 
by the existence of the Delphian Thrakidai®. Herodotos indeed 


pneot did 7d Thy O€uw emi Bods dxouuévny éxeioe éNOciv xara Tov AevKaNiwvos KaTak\uvoLOr, 
cp. Souid. s.vz. ‘Bovyera and Oéuuw, e¢. mag. p. 210, 34ff., Favorin. fex. p. 385, 31 ff.) 
with the Cretan Europe, a vegetative earth-goddess (supra i. 524 ff.), and cites to the same 
effect a convincing passage from Clem, Al. pro¢r. 2. 22. 5 p- 17, 9 ff. Stahlin cai mpooére 
Tys (so Wilamowitz for 77s P. Euseb. praep. ev. 2. 3. 40) O€udos (C. A. Lobeck 
cj. Pecpwobéridos or Apréusdos) 7a aadppnta (adppyta Euseb. Joc. cit.) ctuBora dpiyavor, 
hibyvos, Elpos, xrels yuvaketos, <8s> (ds Euseb. Joc. cit. 6 M. P.? and cod. H. of Euseb. /oc. 
ctt. above the line) éo7w, edpjuws kal wvorTiK@s elrety (om. Euseb. Joc. cit.), woprov yuvacketov. 

1 Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 338 relates Géuis to Zend dames fem. 
‘creation,’ adj. “who creates, creator,’ and for the vocalisation of the root compares 6éua, 
Zend dama ‘creation, creature, abode.’ See, however, E. Fraenkel ‘Grammatische und 
syntaktiscbe Bemerkungen zu griech. @éus’ in Glotta 1913 iv. 22 ff. and P. Kretschmer 
“Zum Namen der Themis’ 7d. 1913 iv. 50f. 

2 This equation saute aux yeux. But others have seen otherwise. Omitting the common 
but certainly misleading comparison of Thetis with Tethys, we have to reckon with a whole 
string of more or less doubtful conjectures: W. Mannhardt Wald- und Feldkulte* Berlin 
1905 ii 207f. (shortened form of *Kuyodéris, *AXobéris, *"LSaroéris, ‘ Wassermuhme,’ 
cp. TnOis, Oetos), L. Laistner Das Ratsel der Sphinx Berlin 1889 i 140 f. (shortened form 
of *ITadobérts, *’Ovouabéris, *Nouobéris, *IupiOéris), Gruppe Gr. AZyth. Rel. pp. 94, 116, 
618 n. 1, 657, 1140, 1163, 1168 n. 3, 1197 n. r (shortened form of Demeter 7hesmothétis), 
G, Prellwitz De dialecto Thessalica Gottingae 1885 p. 26 (related to Oeccadés, Boeotian 
Perrahés, Thessalian Ier@adés, original form Xfe@jaNés, cp. OécoacAar). 

3 See e.g. O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Zuc. v. tort (‘ Nehmen wir als sicher an, 
dass die Heimat des D. Thrakien ist,’ etc.), Farnell Czdts of Gk. States v. 85 f. (‘the 
theory that he was of Thrako-Phrygian origin, carried by a Phrygian migration from 
Thrace into Asia Minor, and spreading his influence and name from the Balkan district 
into Macedonia and certain communities of Greece at an early period, appears to be 
generally accepted’). Evidence in A. Rapp Dze Beztehungen des Dionysoskultus 2 
Thrakien und Kleinasien Stuttgart 1882, F. A. Voigt in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 1031 f., 
Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 211 ff. and in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 1110 ff. 

4 S. Schneider ‘ Uber den Ursprung des Dionysoskultes’ in the Wener Studien 1903 
xxv. 147—154 brings Dionysos from Egypt vza Lydia and Thrace to Greece. P. Foucart 
Le culte de Dionysos en Attigue (Mémoires de I Institut National de France: Académie des 
tnscriptions et belles-lettres xxvii. 2) Paris 1906 argues in support of an Egyptian Dionysos, 
cp. the same author’s recent restatement of his views on the Eleusinian mysteries (Zes 
mysteres @’ Eleusis Paris 1914 p. 445 ff.). Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 211 ff., 1410 and in 
Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 1111 thinks it probable that Dionysos was originally a Boeotian 
god introduced by Greek settlers into Thrace. The latest leader of a forlorn hope is 
Miss G. M. N. Davis Zhe Asiatic Dionysos London 1914. There is of course an element 
of truth in most of these hypotheses, even when they are otherwise misleading. The name 
Ldkchos perhaps came from Egypt (szpra i. 438), the name Zagreds probably came from 
Mt Zagron (sufra i. 651); but Dionysos as such was certainly Thraco-Phrygian. 

° Supra i. 669, 677, 695, 705, 706, 780, ii. 114 f., 219, 239. 

6 Supra p. 231n.2. Cp. P. Kretschmer Zinlectung in die Geschichte der griechischen 
Sprache Gottingen 1896 p. 242 f, 


Zeus and Dionysos 269 


knew of no nearer parallel to the Delphic oracle than that of Dionysos 
among the Thracian Bessoi. In Thrace Dionysos had many ap- 


Vi7e ee ee ta ee “Wye YC" ee a T we 
. Zz ; 
F 2 Nee : 


Ny 


| 








a 




















ARN tf 









47 
All B 
. uM y— ( \, G G4 
. Vee LZ \% Z yy, = 
) WERK, & hh 
EX 4, 
>, Re p G 4 4, 
z *. Ma; ¢ 4 
oe ae us ; 
ae % at 
Wi. 


J Cpe, 


BYTE Ls 














SF 








avy ANO mY ePoc LANTV PPO 
Poona aurTse pAyTOYC AXIAL oll z 
OEWACAOYAH Too Ih Ree! Se 





oe 


——- 
a 


=a 7, sy 
= z Z 4 <5 
= Yan = % 
———-- Y - 
— Zz “Zs 
= Zy Z ang, 
—= J 5 4 
=a7B eZ AS 
— Z “Zig Z Zz 
Z y 
LZ, 3 ZEA J, 
= ——— 
Fig. 175 


1 Hat. 7. 111 Sdrpae d€...dcarenetior 7h wéxpe med aled cdvres EXevOepor, modvor Opnixwy. 
olkéovel Te yap otpen WWyda LOnol Te TmavToinor Kal xLdve ouvynpedpéa, Kal elol Ta Trohémea 
dxpot. ovrot of Tod Acovicou To payTHioy eior ExTnuevoar. TO dé wavTHiov ToUTO gate pev emi 
Tov ovpéww tov tbWyroTrdtwv: Byocol dé tv Larpéwv eisl of mpopynrevovres Tov ipod, 
mpdpuavris d€ 7 Xpéovoa, Kardmep ev Aehpotcr, Kal ovdév rorktANwTepov. In 29 B.C. M. Licinius 
Crassus took the sanctuary of Dionysos from the Bessoi and gave it to the Odrysai (Dion 
Cass. 51. 25). Later, Vologaisos, a Bessian priest of Dionysos, moved by divine frenzy, 
headed a revolt, slew Rhaskyporis son of Kotys, drove out Rhymetalkes uncle of 


270 Zeus and Dionysos 


pellatives: he was Avalos(?) and Dyalos among the Paiones*, Sdbos or 
Sabdzios among the Saboi?, Asdoziles in the vineyards of Maidike 
(fig. 175)*, Ple¢storos (?) at Apsinthos‘, Salim or the like elsewhere’. 


Rhaskyporis in obedience to his god’s command, and pursued him to the Chersonese— 
a revolt quelled by L. Piso, praetor of Pamphylia, in 11 B.c. (Dion Cass. 54+ 34). On the 
Bessoi see further E. Oberhummer in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Lnc. iii. 320 ff. 

1 Supra p. 250 N. 4. 2 Supra i. 395, 400. 

3 This relief (height, exclusive of tenon, 0°46": breadth o'41™), found in the ruins of 
an old church at Melenikos (AZe/nzk) on the S.W. flank of Mt Orbelos, brought to 
Thessalonike in 1895 (J. H. Mordtmann in the Ath. MW7tth. 1896 xxi. 100 f. no. 6), and 
now at Brussels (F. Cumont Catalogue des sculptures & inscriptions antiques (monuments 
lapidaires) des Musées Royaux du Cinguantenaire® Bruxelles 1913 p. 63 ff. no. 52 fig.), 
shows a youthful god riding from left to right. His long hair is bound by a s¢véphzon, in 
the front of which are stuck two little clusters of ivy-berries. Across his chest is slung a 
nebrés, On his feet are Thracian boots. Being in a festive mood, he grasps with his right 
hand the beard of a goat-footed Pan, who follows his master, hanging on in true Greek 
fashion to the horse’s tail. In the background is a huge vine with two small vintagers in 
its branches. One of these holds out a big bunch of grapes to the god as he passes by. 
Old Silenos in a tufted costume, with his chztéz knotted round his waist, dangles a bunch 
in his right hand and raises a reaping-hook in his left to gather a second. Under the 
horse is seen a panther, half-hidden by the vine. The slab is inscribed KXavdcavds Iuvppos 
cai IIvppos | Advdpou Kal ol rept avrod(s) cadrdpra | Oem ’AodotAy TO Gus’ Er(e)e (246 of 
the Actian era=215 A.D.). Adydpou is perhaps an abbreviation of Aedvédpov rather than 
a slip for Mavdpov. The cadrdpio are the saltwarzz, Low Latin sa/tarzz, people empluyed 
about a sa/tus, ‘ vineyard-keepers.’ The god’s name should be read ’AgdovAy (Cumont), 
not ’AgdovAnrw (Mordtmann) or ’AgdovAnr@ (Perdrizet). It recurs as that of a man in the 
Corp. inscr. Lat. x no. 216=Orelli— Henzen Jrscr. Lat. sed. no. 6840 (from Grumentum 
in Lucania) ....VIX.... | AVR» ASDVLA+ MIL | CoH: V+PRETORIE | FRATRI- BENMEREN 
(stc) | QVI-MECV LABORAIT (séc) | AN- XII ET-FRVNINONE | EST IN BARBARICO. See 
further J. H. Mordtmann doc. czt., P. Perdrizet ‘ Relief du pays des Maedes représentant 
un Dionysos thrace’ in the Aev. Arch. 1904 i. 1g—27 pl. 1 (=my fig. 175), Reinach Ré4. 
Reliefs ii. 162 no. 1, F. Cumont Zoc. cit. 

4 So W. Tomaschek ‘ Die alten Thraker’ in the Sz¢zungsber. d. kais. Akad. d. Wiss. 
ax Wien Phil.-hist. Classe 1894 cxxx. 2. 42, comparing Hdt. 9. 119 OléBafov mév voy 
expuyovra és THY Opnixny Oprixes APivOran AaBdyTes COvoay IleoTawpw éemrxwplw Hew TpbTw 
Tw operépw with Dionys. fer. 575 f. Opyixos em’ qoow ’ApivOoo | Buorovides kahéovow 
éplBpouov Kipadiudrnv. The same comparison was made earlier by C. Miiller in his note 
on Dionys fer. 575 and is repeated by O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 2563. 

5 At. mag. p. 186, 32 kal Baduy, Tov Acévucov, Opaxes (sO IT. Gaisford following codd. . 
D. P.M. F. Sylburg had omitted the essential word Badw, including the rest under the 
gloss BaNiac: x.7.d.). Cp. Hesych. EvpuBdduvdos- 6 Avévuoos. The meaning of these titles 
is clear from Aisch. 7s. 658 Badhy apxatos Badiy 1, lkod with schol. ad doc. Baddhv 
(Badrnv H. vulg.) BapBapixds 6 Bacreds Aéyerar. Evdopiwy 6é pyor Oouvpiwy (Meineke cj. 
Ppvyiwy) eivac Ti Oddexrov [b0ev cal Badyvatov dpos, 6 éoti BaciAixov]. Pyolv ody: w apxate 
Baovred, ixov x.7.X., Soph. poiménes frag. 472 Nauck?, 515 Jebb, ap. Sext. adv. math. 1. 
313 of mapa Tw Looxde? moiméves ‘iw Baddrw”’ éyovTes iw BaoiieD Néyouor Ppvytori, 
Herodian. epi wovnjpous NéEews 17, 5 f. p. 52 Lehrs Baddqyv, ot'rws (so K. W. Dindorf for 
cod. otros) 6 Baowevs, Arkad. p. 9, t Barker Baddqv, p. 9, 5 Baddjv, Hesych. Bad[A]jv: 
Baore’s. Ppvyori, Plout. de fluv. 12. 3 £. rapdxecrar 6¢ avrw (sc. the river Sagaris in Phrygia) 
dpos Bad\nvaiov Kadovpevor, drep éoTiv webepunvevouevoy Bacitixoy, Tiv mpoonyoplay éxov 
amo Baddnvatov Tod Vavuundous kal Mndnovyicrns racdbs* otros yap Tov yevyjoavTa Deacdmevos 
amornkduevoy Tots éyxwplos (lacunam indicavit D. Wyttenbach) cai Ba\Anvatov éopriy karé- 
derEev expt viv Kadovmevov. yervarar 0’ év adr@ ALOos Kadovmevos dornp* ovTos elwhev vuKTos 


P. Kretschmer’s hypothesis 271 


Diénysos, the name that lends unity to these local cults, has been 
very variously interpreted’. 


(a) P. Kretschmer’s hypothesis. 


The view that at present holds the field is that of P. Kretschmer?, 
whose arguments may be here resumed. Side by side with Dzdénysos 
there existed a form Dednysos*, the non-Greek change of z to e in 


Babelas updos dixny Narre, TOU POworwpou Thy apxhv KauBavovTos* mpooayopeveTa dé 77H Sva- 
ExT w TGv eyxwpiwy Baddijv, dep weHepunvevomevov éEoTw Bacire’s, KaAOws loropel Epunotdvat 
Kumpios év B' Ppvyiaxay (frag. 1 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 427 f. Miiller)), Eustath. 2 //. p. 381, 
15 ff. Aicxtdos 6€...Badqva Tov Bacitéa ev Tw ‘‘ Badiv dpxatos Badjv.” yAwoons dé TotTO, 
é€& ot Kal bpos Baduvalov, 6 éore Baoidixdv mapa Ildourdpxw ev Tw WeEpl ToTauar, zd. in Od. 
p-. 1854, 26 ff. Aéyer dé kal AloxUNos EOvixwrepor Kal od Kata’ ATTiKkods Badjva Tov Bacidéa ev 
T@ ** Badnv apxatos Badjv.” b60ev Kai Badnvvatoy dpos mapa IlNourapxw ev Tw Tepl ToTayay 
avri Tod Baowukdv. It would seem, then, that the Thracian Dionysos was called Baw or 
Balnv, z.e. ‘ King,’ and that his title E¥pyBdduvdos meant ‘ Wide-ruling’ (cp. Pind. O/. 13. 
33 ff. rar’ edpd dvdoowr |’Odvurias,...Ze6 mdtep, Bakchyl. 5. 19 f. alerds evpudvaxros 
dyyedos | Znvos épiopapdyou, and the Euryanaktidai of Kos (J. Escher-Biirkli in Pauly— 
Wissowa Keal-Enc. vi. 1318)). If so, we may conjecture that the Thracian kings who 
devoured Zagreus (supra i. 654 ff. pl. xxxvi), not merely assimilated the virtue of the god 
(20. ps 656), but actually posed as Dionysos incarnate. 

R. Forster in the Ath. AZtth. 1894 xix. 373 published an inscribed marble block from 
Bithyniareading All ~ BAAHQ.| & TIOTTAIOZ|ANTONIOS| ~APEZ TOS. 
This Zeus Badnos was compared with the Thracian Dionysos BaNuds (sic) of e¢. mag. p. 186, 
32 by O. Hofer in the Jahrd. f. Philol. u. Pidag. 1896 cliii. 472, and with the Phrygian 
Baryv by H. van Herwerden Lexicon Graecum suppletorium et dialecticum® Lugduni 
Batavorum 1910 1. 261 (cp. 2d. ii. 1090 s.v. madyjv). 

P. Carolidis Bemerkungen zu den alten kleinastatischen Sprachen und Mythen Strassburg 
1913 p- 47 connects Badyy or Baddyy with the Armenian ga/, gal-am, ‘herrschen,’ the 
Carian yéas, ‘king’ (Steph. Byz. s.v. Zoudyeda), and even the Lydian koaléety, ‘king’ 
(Hesych. s.v. koahddetv. M. Schmidt ad loc. cp. Baddjv and cites Hesych. caddis: Bacrevs 
and \aidas: 6 rupavvos, bd Avddy, on which see Steph. 7hes. Gr. Ling. v. 41 A). 

} Ancient and modern etymologies are collected by Preller-—Robert Gr. A/yth. i. 664 
n. 1, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 1409 n. 1, 1412f., 1413 D. I, [414 N. I, 1427 N. Q, 
O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. vy. 1ort. 

* P. Kretschmer ‘Semele und Dionysos’ in Aus der Anomia Berlin 1890 pp. 17—29 
criticised by Rohde Psyche* ii. 38 n. 1, to whom Kretschmer replies in his Z27/e:tung in 
die Geschichte der griechischen Sprache Gottingen 1896 p. 241. 

* Et. mag. Pp. 259, 30 To0 « TparrévTos els € yiverar Aedvucos: otrw yap Ddp.oe mpopépovor, 
where cod. V. has eira rpamévtos rob t eis € yéyove dedvugos: Lapuor yap otirw héyoust. 
‘Samians’ can hardly mean Samothracians, though Zduos is used for LapoOpakn 
(W. Pape—G. E. Benseler Worterbuch der griechischen Eigennamen® Braunschweig 1875 
ii. 1337). AEONYS or AEOYNYS on tetradrachms of Maroneia c. 450—400 B.C. 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thrace ete. p. 124 no. 10, Head Hest. num.” p. 249, Ant. Miinz. 
Berlin Vaurische Chersonesus, etc. i. 178 no. 28, Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Déal.-Zuschr. iii. 
2. 717f. no. 5685, 7 with n. ad Joc.) MEO on tetradrachms and drachms of Abdera 
¢. 512—478 B.C. (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Vhrace etc. p. 66 no. 11 f., Hunter Cat. Coins 
i. 382 no. 1 pl. 26,1, Head Ast. mum.? p. 253, M. L. Strack in Deze antiken Miinzen 
Nord-Griechenlands Berlin 1912 ii Thrakien 1. 1. 47 no. £9, I. I. 51 no. 36 pl. 1, 8). 
[A]|EO;N[Y]| AOS on a tetradrachm of Abdera c. 478—450 B.c. (H. Montagu in 
the Mum. Chron. Third Series 1892 xii. 27 pl. 2, 10, M. L. Strack of. cet, 1. 1. 54 
no. 45), like Aeovidos in an inscription from Erythrai in Asia Minor (W. Judeich in the 


272 P. Kretschmer’s hypothesis 


the first syllable being due to the intermediate sound of the Thraco- 
Phrygian vowel? and pointing to the conclusion that Dionysos is 
‘von Haus aus etn Thraker. Greek dialects represent his name as 
Dionysos, Dionysos and Diénnysos, thereby presupposing two original 
forms, viz. Didnysos and * Diosnysos®, of which the one is a com- 
pound D7é-nysos, the other a synthesis of the genitive Dzdés and 
*nysos*. As to the meaning of the combination, Kretschmer insists 
that the first half contains the name of Zeus, who—he holds—was 
called Zezs alike by Thracians and by Hellenes. The second half 
he connects with Vjsa or Vyse, the mythical place to which Hermes 
brought Dionysos for the nymphs to rear‘, and with Wsa, the 
nymph who nursed the infant god®. Raising the question whether 
the nymph was called after the place or the place after the nymph, 
Kretschmer decides for the latter alternative on the ground that 
one of the fragments (fig. 176)° of a vase painted by Sophilos (c. 600— 


Ath. Mitth. 1890 xv. 338 no. 1, Collitz—Bechtel Gy. Dial.-Znuschr. iii. 2. 730 no. 5694. 
So Dittenberger Sy//. znscr. Gr. no. 744, 10 [Acov]idos in a Rhodian inscription) and 
Aeovios in an inscription from Thasos (E. Jacobs in the Ath. Mitth. 1897 xxii. 120 ff. 
no. 1, 2, O. Hoffmann Die Griechischen Dialekte Gottingen 1898 iii. 38 no. 74, 2 cp. 26. 
p- 262 f., Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-/nschr. iii. 2. 604f. no. 5469, 2. Similarly Acovios 
in an inscription from Olbia: Collitz—Bechtel of. cit. iii. 2. 661 no. 5553), is gen. of 
Acovis=*Aeoviowos. Aevvuoos (schol. Townl. //. 14. 325, e¢. mag. p. 259, 28 and 31), 
Aed’vuce (Anakr. frag. 2, 11 Bergk*), Aedvuoov (Anakr. frag. 11, 2 Bergk4, ef. mag. p. 277; 
37) have Ionic ev for eo. 

1 W. Tomaschek ‘Die alten Thraker’ in the Sztzungsber. d. kais. Akad. d. Wiss. in 
Wien Phil.-hist. Classe 1894 cxxxi. 1. 31 cites Thracian names beginning with Deo- 
(e.g. Aed-Bifos, Deo-pus) and Dio- (e.g. Ato-oxéBpios, Dio-bessi). P. Kretschmer in Azs 
der Anomia p. 23 notes the deos or dws of Phrygian inscriptions (22/ra p. 278 n. 2) and 
the Macedonian ivééa (Hesych. ivdéa: weonuBpia. Maxeddves) for évdla (supra i. 4f.). 

2 Pp. Kretschmer in Aus der Anomia p. 24: ‘Also haben wir nicht eine, sondern zwei 
Grundformen unseres Namens anzusetzen: Acdvucos und *Acoovucos; jene blieb in allen 
Mundarten unverandert, diese gab im Aiolischen und Thessalischen regelrecht Acévvucos, 
in den Mundarten aber, die 0 zu w dehnen, Avwyvuoos.’ Etc. 

3 Td. tb. p. 25: ‘Denn die Doppelform des Namens erklart sich am einfachsten so, 
dass Acé-yucos ein Compositum, *Acéo-vuoos aber eine Zusammenriickung aus dem Gen. 
Avés und *vucos ist, von derselben Art wie Acéc-koupos, Avéforos= Atéa-doros, Acéo-7roXs. 
Vel. Prellwitz, dial. thess. 31. da. Einlettung etc. p. 241: ‘ Auch darauf sei noch hinge- 
wiesen, dass die doppelte Bildungsweise, das Kompositum Avé-yucos und die Zusammen- 
riickung “Avés-yucos=aiol. Zdvvvoos; thess. kret. Acévyucos (Knossos, Athen. Mitt. X 92. 
Eleutherna, Mus. Ital. 11 165 f. n. 8), im Thrakischen ebenfalls ihre Parallele hat. Neben 
den Personennamen L722-zenus, Aed-Bifos, Dio-bessus finden sich hier Deos-gor, Dios- 
cuthes, deren Analyse sich aus AZeca-for, bezw. Midro-xvOns ergiebt®? [?Tomaschek teilt 
unrichtig Deo-spor, Dio-scuthes ab.].’ See, however, fra p. 279. 

4 Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. v. 1616 B—D. 

5 R. Wagner in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 567 ff. For an excellent illustration of the 
Nymphs nursing the infant Dionysos among trees see the silver a/dbastron of c. 200 B.C. 
from Metropolis (Aavditsa) in Thessaly published by A. S. Arvanitopullos in the 47/. 
Mitth. 1912 xxxvii. 76 ff. pls. 2 and 3, cp. A. de Ridder in the Rev. Zt. Gr. 1913 
Xxvi. 434 fig. 

6 F. Winter ‘ Vase des Sophilos’ in the 47h. AZztth. 1889 xiv. 1—8 and col. pl. 1, 


P. Kretschmer’s hypothesis 273 


550 B.C.) represents a pair of nymphs inscribed Wfsaz: a mere 
eponym would not have been thus 
pluralised. Kretschmer further 
suggests that Vj/sa as a place-name 
is a shortened form of Myseta or 
Nysata, and observes that Homer 
uses only the adjectival phrase 
Nyséion. On this showing nysd 
was the Thracian term fora nymph 
or maid, and its masculine correla- 
tive was -zjsos, the second element 
in Dzd-nysos. Weare thus led along 
a legitimate route® to the conclu- 
sion that Didnxysos denoted simply 
‘Zeus’ Son,’ ‘ Zeus’ Hero, —a view 
confirmed by another remarkable 
vase-painting (fig. 177)*, which de- 
scribes the child Dionysos as Dz0s 
phos, ‘Zeus’ Man,‘ Zeus’ Hero,’ not to mention a third, which dubs 
Herakles Dz0s pais, ‘Zeus’ Son* 


\ lS 





Wien. Vorlegebl. 1889 pl. 2, 3*—34, F. Studniczka ‘ Ueber die Bruchstiicke einer Vase des 
Sophilos’ in Zranos Vindobonensis Wien 1893 pp. 233—240, P. Wolters in the J/ahrd. 
d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1898 xiii. 19 n. 8, H. B. Walters Héstory of Ancient Pottery 
London 1905 i. 379f., Graef dnt. Vasen Athen. i. 64 no. 587 a—i pl. 26 a, b (=my 
fig. 176), c—h, Perrot—Chipiez Azst. de 7 Art x. 199. 

1 71.6.133- In //.2.508 Niody re fa0ény there was a variant Nooar re (abény (Strab. 406). 

2 J. Savelsberg in the Zeitschrift fiir vergletchende Sprachforschung 1867 xvi. 60 n. 
had already related ‘ Avé-cvucos ‘‘zeussohn”’ to vuds, szrus, but he had spoilt his 
etymology by attempting to work in véos, viv, and other totally unconnected words. 

* G. Minervini Wonumenti anticht ineditt posseduti da Raffaele Barone Napoli 1852 
i. 1—7 and Appendice p. vi pl. 1 (=my fig. 177), Jahn Vasensamml. Miinchen p. \xi 
n. 402, L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1861 p. 12, H. Heydemann Dionysos’ 
Geburt und Kindhett (Winckelmannsfest- Progr. Halle 1885) Halle 1885 p. 13, P. Kretschmer 
Die griechischen Vaseninschriften Giitersloh 1894 p. 199, De Ridder Caz. Vases de la Bibl. 
Nat. i. 127 f. no. 219, P. Milliet—A. Giraudon Vases antiques de la Bibliotheque Nationale 
Paris 1891 i pl. 32f. A (IVME Classe, vili® Série), O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa Xeal- Func. 
v. 1144. The obverse design of this small black-figured amphora from S. Maria di Capua 
shows Zeus seated to the right, in chz¢én and A¢mazion, with a fillet on his head, a thunder- 
bolt in his right hand, a sceptre in his left. On his lap stands a naked boy, with a fillet on 
his head and two flaming torches (not ¢4yrsoz) in his hands. Moving to the right, but 
turning to speak with Zeus, is Hera, in chztén and himdtion, her hair bound with a double 


fillet. Inscribed KALO? (kadés, not cadrtdv) AIO$@MO$ HEPA O. Jahn Joc. cit. 


recognised the scene as the ‘ Geburt des Dionysos ’—an interpretation strongly supported 
by the analogous types of Athena’s birth (2/ra § g (h) ii (@)). P. Kretschmer in Aus der 
Anomia p. 29 was the first to read Ads gas as ‘einen volkstiimlichen oder sacralen... 
Ausdruck fiir das Verhaltnis des Dionysos zu Zeus,’ rightly objecting to such a poetic 
locution as Avs $s (cp. supra i. 7 n. 3 and Xen. av. 3. 1. 12 Pas péya éx Aros idetv edoEe). 

4 J. Millingen Ancient Unedited Monuments London 1822 i. gif. pl. 38, 1, Muller— 


(Cs 1k 18 


274 Criticism of P. Kretschmer’s hypothesis 


(8) Criticism of P. Kretschmer’s hypothesis. 


Kretschmer’s solution of the problem, being phonetically un- 
assailable, has been accepted by the majority of scholars, but is 
perhaps open to criticism on two grounds. In the first place, 





494 3% 


Higa 77s 


Pherekydes of Leros is credited with the statement that Dzdénysos 
was so named because he flowed from Ze#s on to the nujsai or 
“trees!” This rather enigmatic assertion probably hangs together 
with Pherekydes’ description of Semele as Hye and the nurses of 


Wieseler Denkm. d. alt. Kunst i. 14 pl. 19, 96 a small black-figured amphora in the 
Louvre (E. Pottier Vases antiques du Louvre 2° Série Paris 1go1 p. 133 no. F 385, 7a. 
Cat. Vases du Louvre iii, 811 no. F 385) representing the combat between Herakles and 


Kyknos inscribed HEPAKLLES (ste) AIOSTAIS and KY+NO¢ (retrograde). . Cp. 


Corp. inscr. Gr. iii no. 7610. 

1 Schol. Aristeid. iii. 313 Dindorf evepyerety pyor rov Atévucov kai (C. Miiller lacunam 
indicat) dodvar dvOpwros. Snot S€ (kal D.) 6 epexvdns (frag. va (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 637 
Miiller)), wat per’ (€r D.) éxeivov ‘Avrloxyos (sc. of Syracuse), Aéyorres Kal dia TodTo 
KexAjoOat Acévucor, ws éx Avds és vicas péovta: vicas (viooas D.) yap, pnoiv, éxddouv Ta 
Oévdpa* K.T.d. 


Criticism of P. Kretschmer’s hypothesis 275 


Dionysos as Hyddes'. Since this fifth-century author, the earliest 
writer of Attic prose’, indited a book Ox the Festivals of Dionysos’, 
he was doubtless well posted on the mythology of the god, and we 
must not dismiss his remarks as idle invention’, They fit on toa 
number of stray hints and intimations. Thus lexicographers and 
scholiasts tell us that Saddézzos, the Phrygian Zeus® or Dionysos’, 
was entitled yes’, Hyas*, Hyetis®. Kleidemos, the oldest exponent 
of local Attic lore”, said that Dionysos was called Ayes ‘because 
we sacrifice to him in time of rain". Others explained ‘that Dionysos 
was HZ7yes from the rain that fell at his begetting, when Zeus rained 
ambrosiauponhim™®.’ Plutarch in a more philosophical mood declares 
that the Greeks name ‘ Dionysos Hyes as lord of watery nature™,’ 
Nonnos waxes eloquent on the theme and makes Gaia address 
Dionysos in the following terms : 


Zeus’ son, grain-giver, murderer——ay, thou rulest 

Both fruitful rain and bloody snow alike: 

With rain thou didst bedew the whole rich field 

Of Hellas, and with gore hast drenched the tilth 

Of India; sheaves thy harvest once, now death. 

Thy flakes found ears for the peasants; thou hast reaped 
The Indian host and cut men down like corn. 

Raindrops thou bringest from Zeus, from Ares blood". 


1 Pherekyd. frag. 46 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 84 Miiller) ap. Phot. lex. s.v."Tns=Souid. 
5.v. “Tys=et. mag. p. 775, 4 ff.=Favorin. /ex. p. 1791, 26f. (cp. 26. 19f.). See further 
supra i. 111 n. 6, zfra § Q (i). i 

2 W. Christ Geschichte der griechischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1908 i. 429. 

® Souid. s.v. Bepexvdns Aépros. 4 Liibker Reallex.® p. 796 ‘voller Phantasie.’ 

> Supra i. 390 ff. § Supra i. 395 N. 3. 

7 Phot. dex. s.v."Tns b2s+ ro} YaBatiov h éwixNnows, Eustath. zz /7. p. 1155, 63 f. év dé 
pyropixwm eEcKG eUpynrat kal dre ‘Tddes Bdxyar TOFvac TOD Acovicov: Kal Tov Acédvucov “Lnv 
gpaciv ard Tobrwy Twés* “Tns yap érikAnots ToD DaBafiov. 

8 Schol. Aristoph. av. 874 maifer mpos 7d dvopa (sc. Ppvyl\hw VaBaflw), éwel Pp'yes 76 
evafvew caBagew Paci Kal éx TovTov LaBdafrov tov Ardyvcov Néyovot. odBous dé edeyor Kal 
Tovs adrepwuevous a’r@ Tomous Kal Tovs Baxxous Tod Beod. 6 abros dé "Yas Kai Evasos (szc) 
kaNetrat. Was the @¢pvyidos (on which see D’Arcy W. Thompson 4 Glossary of Greek 
Birds Oxford 1895 p. 184 and E. J. Seltman in the Journ. /ntern. a’ Arch. Num. 1913 
xv. 4), like the jay (Cornut. ¢4eo/. 30 p. 61, 22 f. Lang), if not also the nightingale and 
the swallow (Gruppe Gr. AZjth. Rel. pp. 92, 951 n. 7), specially connected with Dionysos ? 

® Hesych. s.v. ‘Tevs* LaBa (ros. 

10 Paus. 10. 15. 5, cp. W. Christ Geschichte der griechischen Litteratur® Miinchen 
DOU ter. Or. 

4 Kleidemos (Kleitodemos frag. 21 (Fray. hist. Gr.i. 363 Miiller)) af. Phot. dex. s.v."Tns 
(=Souid. s.v. "Lns=er. mag. p. 775, 3 f.=Favorin. lex. p. 1791, 24 ff.): émiBerov Acoviaou, 
ws Kyeldnuos* érerdn, pnow, émiredoduev Tas Ouoias ad’T@ Kad’ dy 6 Geds Ver xpdvov. 

Bekker anecd. i. 207, 26ff. dAdo 52 "Cyv pev elvar roy Arcévucov amd Tod cuuBdvros éml rH 
yevrnoe avtov berod: toe yap duBpoclav ém' aita 6 Levs, et. mag. p. 775, 7 f. 7 bre toev 6 Oeds 
emi THY yévynow avrod, cp. 2b. p. 277, 45 f. 7 Ott Avds Uovros éréxOn. Lnfra § g (e) iii, § 9 (i). 

13 Plout. ae Ls. et Os. 34 kal rov Acévucoy "Lnv ws kbprov Tis bypas pioews, K.T-A. 

4 Nonn. Dion. 22. 276 ff. 


18—2 


276 Criticism of P. Kretschmer’s hypothesis 


Elsewhere the same author expresses the Orphic belief that the 
infant Dionysos ‘was a second Zeus | And sent the rain-storm’’ 
These and other indications of an essential connexion between 
Dionysos and the rain? warrant us in attaching weight to Pherekydes’ 
statements. It would seem that, in Thraco-Phrygian myth, not only 
did Zeus descend in rain upon Semele when he begat Dionysos’, 
but Dionysos himself ‘a second Zeus’ came upon the 2jsaz or ‘trees’ 
in the form of rain. And after all, zfsaz,‘ trees’ are compatible with 
nysat ‘nymphs’; for nymphs may be tree-nymphs, and it is on 
record that Dionysos was nursed by the Dryads*, 

In the second place, exception might be taken to Kretschmer’s 
view that the sky-god was called Zezs by Thracians as well as 
Hellenes. That view is based® on the fact that, just as Hellenic 
names derived from Zeas, e.g. Diddoros, Diogénes, Diomédes, have 
for their first element Dzo-, so Thracian names begin sometimes 
with Deo-*, Dzo-’, Diu-8, sometimes with Deos-*, Dios-",—the twofold 


1 Jd. tb. 10. 298 Kal réde SevTeEpos adXos Ere Bpépos bérvos Levs (supra i. 398 f., 647 n. 6). 

2 Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1427 n. 9. 3 Infra § 9g (i). 

4 Opp. cyz. 4. 275 odv Apudow 5 arirndre pediocoxdbuorol re Niudas, K.7.D. 

5 P. Kretschmer Eizleitunmg in die Geschichte der Griechischen Sprache Gottingen 
1896 p. 241. 

§ Aed-B.fos in an inscription cited by W. Tomaschek ‘Die alten Thraker’ in the 
Sttzungsber. a. kats. Akad. d. Wiss. in Wien Phil.-hist. Classe 1894 xxxi. i. 31 Iocia 
AcoBifou. 

Deo-fus in an inscription from Thessalonike published by A. Dumont J/élanges @’arché- 
ologie et d’épigraphie Paris 1892 p. 470 no. I13 DEOPVISFIL-AN.LX.HSS. etc. after 
L. Duchesne et C. Bayet Mémoire sur une Mission au Mont Athos Paris 1876 p. 51 no. 82. 

Deo-titanus in an inscription from Regensburg in Bavaria: Corp. inscr. Lat. iii 
no. 5965 d. m.jet perpetuae seclur. Deotitano, v|ixit an. xv, fec. Iul. Poltititus filio, 
etc. =Gruter /zscr. ant. tot. orb. Rom. ii. 680 no. 3. For the second element in the name 
cp. an inscription from Campanil’ Gong near Jimena in Corp. inser. Lat. ii no. 3354 
D M S|NVSATITA | PVER SERVE | PRONATVS NA|TIONE TRA|CIE PLVS MI/NVS ANNO|RVM 
III JA|CET PETIVO BE|NEFICIO IN|LOCVM CAM|PANIANEN|SEM. 

7 Dio-besst in Plin. nat. hzst. 4. 40 amnem Strymonem accolunt...latere...laevo Digerri 
Bessorumque multa nomina ad Mestum amnem ima Pangaei montis ambientem inter 
Haletos, Diobessos, Carbilesos, inde Brigas, Sapaeos, Odomantos. The Ato are mentioned 
in Thouk. 2. 96 mapexddex 6é (sc. Sitalkes in 429 B.C.) Kai T&v dpewGv OpaxGy moddovs Tav 
avrovouwv Kai maxatpopdpwr, ot Ator kaodvrat, Ti ‘Podomny of wetoror oikobyres, Cp. 7. 27 
adixovto 6€ kal OpaxGy Trav paxapopdpwr rod Acakod yévous és Tas "AOjwas meATacTal év 
T@® alTw Oéper ToUTwW (413 B.C.) Tpiakdctoe Kal xiAvor K.7-A. (whence Dion Cass. 51. 22 
Opakes Tod Aaxcxod (!) yévous Tod thy ‘Podomwny moré érorxnoavytos dvTes), Tac. ann. 3. 38 
Coelaletae Odrusaeque et Dii (so J. Lipsius for codd. azz), validae nationes, arma cepere 
(21 A.D.). See further W. Tomaschek ‘ Die alten Thraker’ in the S2tzungsber. d. kais. 
Akad. d. Wiss, in Wien Phil.-hist. Classe 1893 cxxvili. 71 f. 

Avo-cxéBpios in an inscription from Miletopolis in Mysia first published by Lebas— 
Waddington Asie Mineure v no. 1105 AUOCKEPBIOCPOY®OC «.7.A. and later 
corrected by G. Perrot—E. Guillaume—J. Delbet Axploration archéologique de la Galatie 
et de la bithynie d’une partie de la Mysie de la Phrygie, de la Cappadoce et du Pont Paris 
1872 i. 99 AIOCKEPBIOCPOY#OC x.r.2. 


Dios and Dios NV9sos 297 


method of formation producing on the one hand a compound, e.g. 
Dié-nysos, on the other a synthesis, e.g. *Dzdés-nysos. But these data, 
it seems to me, are susceptible of another interpretation, vzz. that 
corresponding with the Hellenic sky-god Zezés there was a Thracian 
sky-god Déos, whose name coupled with an appellative appeared 
now as Dzos Pdpas or the like, ‘Dios the Father’, now as Dos 
Nysos, ‘Dios the Son®’ The Greeks, familiar with Dzdés as the 
genitive case of Ze#s, would inevitably take this Déos Nysos to 
mean ‘Son of Zeus’ and wouid therefore readily form the Hellenic 
compound D76-nysos*. 


(y) Dios and Dios Nysos. 


Further evidence of a Thraco-Phrygian sky-god called Dzos may 
be sought both on the Asiatic and on the European side of the 
Dardanelles. Epitaphs of the Roman imperial age found in Phrygia 
and published by Sir W. M. Ramsay‘ and Mr W. M. Calder® com- 


8 Diu-zenus, a Bessian, is mentioned in a bronze diptych found at Stabiae in 1749 A.D. 
and now preserved at Naples: Corp. zuscr. Lat. iii. 844, x no. 769, Wilmanns £x. znscr. 
Lat. no. 2863, 13 f., Dessau Juzscr. Lat. sed. no. 1986 gregali: Spartico Diuzeni f. Dips- 
curto (altered from Dzdpscurto), | Besso. 

® Deos-for in a military dedication of 223 A.D. found at Xanten and now at Bonn: 
Orelli—Henzen Jzscr, Lat. sel. no. 6804, Dessau Zuscr. Lat. sel. no. 2350 Sept. 
Deospor etc. W. Tomaschek in the Sztaumngyber. d. hats. Akad. d. Wiss. in Wien Phil.- 
hist. Classe 1894 xxxi. 1. 314 divided Deo-sfor, cp. Zmopdkns (Dion Cass. 68. 21). 
P. Kretschmer (szfra p. 272 n. 3) divides Deos-por. 

0 Dios-cuthes on a large broken coffer from Reusilava or Orsilava near Kirlikova in 
Makedonia: Corp. zscr. Lat. iii no. 703, 5 SABINVS+ DIOSCVTiIIs. W. Tomaschek 
loc. ett. divided Dio-scuthes like Ato-cxéBpios (supra p. 276 n. 7). P. Kretschmer (supra 
p- 272 n. 3) divides Dios-cuthes. 

1 On Ildzas as the Thracian term for ‘ Father’ see W. Tomaschek in the Sz¢zungsber. 
ad, kais. Akad, d. Wiss. in Wien Phil.-hist. Classe 1894 xxxi. 1. 18. Jnfra § 3 (a) iv (8). 

* Dios Njsos could presumably pass into *D7és-nysos. Cp. Dées+ Pater= Diespiter 
(K. Brugmann Avrze vergleichende Grammatik der indogermanischen Sprachen Strassburg 
1904 p. 298, K. Brugmann—A. Thumb Griechische Grammatik* Miinchen 1913 
pp- 182, 200). 

* Another possible, but—I think—less probable, explanation would be to suppose that 
the compound Dyéxysos was originally Thracian and meant the same as Dios NVjsos, ‘ Dios 
the Son.’ The main objection is the rarity of such appositive compounds: K. Brugmann 
Kurze vergleichende Grammatik der indogermanischen Sprachen Strassburg 1904 p- 303 
quotes darpo-yav7is and analogous forms fron: Gothic, Old Church Slavonic, and Russian. 
Other examples are collected by F. H. M. Blaydes in his notes on Aristoph. raz. 499, 
937- But these are all cases of mixed human (Acovvcadééavdpos etc.) or animal (rpay- 
€ados etc.) types. What of Aecrarupos (supra i. 681 n. 4) ? 

+ Sir W. M. Ramsay ‘ Phrygian Inscriptions of the Roman Period’ in the Zeitschrift 
fiir vergleichende Sprachforschung 1887 xxviii. 381—400, zd. ‘Neo-Phrygian Inscriptions’ 
in the Jahresh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1905 viii Beiblatt pp. 79—120. See also A. Fick in 
the Bettrdge zur kunde der indogermanischen sprachen 1889 xiv. 50 f. with the reply of 
Sir W. M. Ramsay 26. pp. 308—312. 

® W.M. Calder ‘ Corpus inscriptionum Neo-Phrygiarum’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 
IQ1r xxxi. 161—215 and 1913 xxxiii. 97—104. 


278 — Dios and Dios N9sos 


monly end with a curse on the violator of the tomb?. This curse, 
expressed in the Phrygian language though the rest of the inscrip- 
tion is in Greek, devotes the offender to Attis among certain powers, 
who are described as deods zemelos, deos zemelos ke, zemelo ke deos, 
dios zemelos, dios ke szemelos ke, or the like. The most probable 
interpretation of this vexed phrase?’ is that proposed by G. Meyer‘, 


1 Such formulae of execration were in use among the Phrygians a thousand years 
earlier (¢d. 2. 1913 xxxili. 102). 
2 The examples so far published are the following (numbered in accordance with 
Mr Calder’s Corpus) : 
nos. 4 67 diws fewedw[s TuTTET ]exmevos evrov (or Feuehw [erTiT...]). 
5 me diwls CJomodw erireTiKmevos nTovs 
6 Tos ve me Feuedw Ke Seos ere nriTreTiKMevos €[cT Jov. 
7 Oeos ke ceulehws...] akeor erpora Te eTiTT[ETLKMEVA ELTT |VOU. 
21 me CEu“EeNWS TLTTETLKMEVOS ELTOV. 
25 Tosve [deos F]iufe]Aws te we K(e) At[7e] TerTeTLKMeEVos ELToU. 
39% [d]tos [ke [o?]SeuleA]ws xe rer[7]e[7]ixue[vos] evrov Artin ke adecrov. 
40 dews Ceuedws Ke TiTTETLKME[V os ELTOU. 
42 [me fe]uedws xe [d]e[w]s.... 
62 Arrin ke dews Ke TLTETTLKMEVOS ELTOU. 
63 dews fewedws [Tle TiTeTLouKmevos ecTov]. 
68 [dews fewedws] eri[7]reTiK[ mevos evrov]. 
The whole /ormu/a was almost certainly metrical. Prof. A. H. Sayce in the Jahresh. 
d. oest. arch. Inst. 1905 viii Beiblatt p. 85 restores the original as a hexameter couplet : 
IOC NI CEMOYN KNOYMANI KAKQ.N AAAAKETO ZEIPA | ME 
ZEMEAWC KE AEOC KE TETIKMENOC ATTIEAA EITOV, where 1|OC 
=6s, NI is a particle like dy or vv, CEMOYN is dat. of a demonstrative stem, 
KNOYMANI is dat. of a noun meaning ‘tomb,’ KAKILN=xaxév, AAAAKETO 
is from the stem seen in @0yxa, Ojxn, ZEIPA=xetpa, ME =perd, KE=xal, TETIK- 
MENOC must mean ‘devoted to,’ etc. R. Meister in the Zndogermanische Forschungen 
1909 xxv. 318 n. I says: ‘rrerixuevos (zur Bestrafung) ‘‘zugesprochen” oder ‘‘angezeigt,”’ 
auch in den Formen azerikmevos (d. i. ar-rerixuevos) 41 und mit Vereinfachung der 
Gemination rerixuevos 5, I1, 14, 20, 21, 38, 453 T-TeKw ‘ich spreche zu, zeige an” 
(=griech. é7-delxvymt, lat. ad-dico) ist zusammengesetzt mit der Schwundstufe der 
Praposition ar, idg. ad (Brugmann, KVG. 470),’ etc. Jd. 2b. 1909 xxv. 318 n. 2: ‘ar 
Trad “*zu Zeus hin” mit Verdoppelung der Richtungsangabe wie z. B. im lat. ad-verszs ; 
Trad geht auf *Divmy-dhe: *Tiav-d(e) zuriick, -(e) ist vor Vokal elidiert. » ist im Phry- 
gischen vor s (Akk. Plur. dews diws ‘die Gotter” 4a, 5, 40, feuwedws ‘die Unterirdischen”’ 
4a, 6, 25, 42 u. a.) und vor dem spirantisch gewordenen und oft (nicht nur vor ¢ 
[Kretschmer Einl. 196]) mit s wechselnden 6 mit Ersatzdehnung geschwunden. Statt 
Tr-ad 11, 41, 44 steht auch Ti-ead 12, 45 und Ti-nx-ead 39 (mit ea werden ebenso wie mit 
ae lange Vokale bezeichnet), das letztere eine Weiterbildung des Zeusnamens mit dem 
Kosesuffix -ex (Brugmann Grundriss II®, 501), das auch in Bav-nx-os ‘des Weibes ” 
30 vorliegt.” But W. M. Calder in the Journ. Hell. Stud. IQII xxxi. 204 ff., 214 f., 
26. 1913 xxxiii. 98 proves that the concluding words are the equivalent of katrnpapévos 
"Arr. éorw and must be divided ATTIE€ (dat.) AAEITOY (cp. adesto). Accordingly I 
would amend Sayce’s restoration as follows: 
IOC NI CEMOYN KNOYMANE KAKOYN AAAAKETI ZEIPA, 
ME ZEMEAWC TE AEWC TE TETIKMENOC ATTY AAEITOY. 
Whosoever upon this tomb lays evil hand, 
Among gods below and gods above let him be devoted to Attis. 
* Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Zedtschrift fiir vergleichende Sprachforschung 1887 xxviii. 


Dios and Dios Nisos 279 


P. Kretschmer?, and W. M. Calder?®, who agree in rendering ‘heavenly 
and chthonian gods.’ We may reasonably infer that in Phrygia the 
earth-goddess Semele*® was associated with a sky-god known as 


397 n. 1 translated we feuedw by ‘ wera réxvwv.’ A. Torp ‘Zu den phrygischen Inschriften 
aus romischer Zeit’ in the Skrifter udgivne af Videnskabsselskabet i Christiania 1894 ii 
Historisk-filosofisk Klasse Christiania 1895 no. 2 p. 16 f., z¢@. ‘Zum Phrygischen’ 76. 
1896 no. 3 p. 4 takes we=perd and regards dews ke feueNws as meaning ‘ himself and his 
family.’ P. Kretschmer in Aus der Anomia Berlin 1890 p. 19 f., cp. ta. Einleitung in 
die Geschichte der Griechischen Sprache Gottingen 1896 p. 226, renders dews diws 
‘Himmel’ and feuedw ‘ Erdgottheit, Erde.” F. Solmsen ‘Zum Phrygischen’ in the 
Zeitschrift fiir vergleichende Sprachforschung 1897 xxxiv. 54 f. understands deos diws as a 
gen. sing. = Acés and (euehws as agen. sing. = Deuédns. Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Jahvesh. 
d. oest. arch. Inst. 1905 viii Beiblatt p. 107 translates we duws femedws TL, we Cewedw KE Seos 
by ‘among gods and men,’ regarding the termination as that of a dat. plur. (-ws rather 
than -os). 

* G. Meyer ‘ Albanesische Studien’ iii in the Sz¢zungsber. d. kais. Ahad. d. Wiss. in 
Wien Phil.-hist. Classe 1892 cxxv. 11. 21 n. 2 says: ‘ Mir scheint, dass in jener phry- 
gischen Verwiinschungsformel geuew derselbe Casus sei, wie das parallele deos oder dws, 
und zwar eine Pluralform (in Nr. 25 bei Ramsay Phrygian Inscriptions, KZ xxvii, 381 ff., 
steht ¢Jeuedws), mit Nichtschreibung des -s, und dass die Formel bedeute: ‘bei den 
irdischen und himmlischen (Gottheiten).”’ Cp. zd. as cited by W. Gurlitt in the Gé¢e. 
gel. Anz. 1892 p. 514. 

1 P. Kretschmer in the Jahresh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1905 viii Beiblatt p. 79 n. 1 ‘would 
prefer AEWC KE ZEMEAWC “heavenly and Chthonian gods.””’ 

> W. M. Calder in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1911 xxxi. 207 f. 

3 The opinion of ancient scholars that Semele was but another name of Ge (Apollod. 
Srag. 29 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 433 Miiller) af. Lyd. de mens. 4. 51 p. 107, 1 ff. Wiinsch 
péperat dé kal Tis wOO0s Tepl adrod Kara Tov’ AmoNNddwpor, ws eln yeyorws éx Ads kal Djs, 
Ths dé Tis OeuéXns mpocayopevopévns dia TO eis althy mdvTa KaTabemeovcbat, qv Kata 
owardayiv évds croxelov, Tod F Deuédnv ol woenral mpoonyopevKact, et. Gud. p. 498, 39 ff. 
Dewey, Peds, OeweNls, Oewehiwris oda. O€uelts yh mpooayopeverar* dia 76 év adry wavTa 
kaTrabeweNodcOa- kai kar évaddayhv Tod O eis o, DeweAn; Diod. 3. 62 dmotws dé kal Thy Ex 
Deuedns yéveow eis puoikas apxas avayouow, dtopawomevor Ovdyyny b1d THY apxalwy THY 
yiv dvoudcba, Kat reOetcbar Thy mpoonyoplay [kai del. H. K. A. Eichstadt] Deuédny pev 
dro ToD ceuyyy eivar THs Oeod TavTys Ti éemipédecay Kal TyUHv, Qvaovnv 5 aad T&v Ovopéevav 
atry Ovary Kal Oun\Gv. Conclusions right : etymologies wrong) has been confirmed, not 
only by modern mythologists (Welcker Gr. Gotter/. i. 434 ff., Gerhard Gr. AZyth. i. 182, 
505, Preller—Robert Gr. MZjyth. i. 660, O. Jessen in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 664 ff. A 
notable dissenter is Gruppe Gr. JZyth. Rel. p. 1415 n. 6), but—-what is more to the 
point—by modern philologists. V. Hehn Kzlturpflanzen und Hausthiere in ihrem 
Ubergang aus Asien nach Griechenland und Italien sowie in das tibrige Europa’ Berlin 
1870 pp. 24, 412 f. n. 15 conjectured that LYeuéAn was a Thracian word for ‘Erde, Erd- 
gottin,’ related to xaual, hems, etc. P. Kretschmer ‘Semele und Dionysos’ in Aus der 
Anomia Berlin 1890 p. 17 ff. first established the conjecture on a sound basis by proving 
that the word really occurred in Thraco-Phrygian sources: ‘Zur Deutung des zweiten 
Begriffes ¢¢weAw kann uns die hesychische Glosse (eue\ev BdpBapov avdpdmodov: Ppiyes 
behilflich sein, welche man mit Recht zu indogermanisch ghem-, skr. £5am-, avest. 2do, 
Gen. zemo ‘‘ Erde,” slav. zemija, lit. Zémé *‘Erde,” zémas ‘‘niedrig,” gr. x0dv, Loc. xapal, 
xPapmandos, lat. humus “Erde,” humilis ‘‘niedrig,” hemo homo ‘‘Mensch,” humanus, got. 
guma “Mensch” gestellt hat! {! Die Bildung ist dieselbe wie die von phryg. fpixeNos, 
Kuen (auf einer phryg. Inschrift »atar Kudile) und gr. xPauanros, lat. Avmelis.]. Fick, 
Spracheinh, a.a.O [A. Fick Die ehemalige Spracheinheit der Indogermanen Europas 
Gottingen 1873 pp. 321, 416, 429].’ This view, which links Semele with Nova Zemdla 


280 Dios and Dios NV psos 


Déos or Dtos. The inference can, I think, be raised to a high degree 
of probability. At Dorylaeion (Eskzshehir), a great centre of Zeus- 
worship? in north-eastern Phrygia, G. Radet in 1893 found an altar 
dedicated to Zeus Dzos?. A. Korte, reviewing Radet’s discovery in 
1897, threw out the ingenious suggestion that this title may attest 
a local survival of the primitive sky-god D7éos? postulated by H. 
Usener*. Sir W. M. Ramsay in 1906 assumed a long vowel and | 
wrote Zeus Déos*—a course in which I formerly followed him®. But 
K6rte’s case is materially strengthened by the occurrence of deos, 
dios, etc. in the neo-Phrygian inscriptions cited above’; and his 


(Harrison Proleg. Gk. Rel.” p. 404), has met with almost universal accceptance and is 
clearly correct. See further Walde Zat. etym. Worterb.* p. 372 f. s.v. ‘humus.’ 

1 F. Cumont in Pauly-Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 891 argues that Dorylaeion was the 
principal cult-centre of Zeus Brontén (infra § 4 (d)). A. Korte in the Ath. Mit‘h. 1900 
xxv. 409 f. demurs to this statement, though he admits that thirteen dedications to the 
god have been found there. Coins of the town show more than one type of Zeus. A 
copper struck by Trajan has rev. AOPVAA EQLN MEAHNOC Zeus Mednrds 
(meaning unknown) seated with shzd/e in right hand, sceptre in left, and eagle on ground 
behind the seat (Imhoof-Blumer A7Vezvas. Miinzen i. 225 no.1, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins 
Phrygia p. vii). Coppers of Titus have rev. ITAAIKQANOVTTATO. AOPYAAEQ.N 
Zeus enthroned to left with thunderbolt in right and sceptre in left hand (Arzz. AZus. Cat. 
Coins Phrygia p. 195 pl. 25, 1). A ‘third brass’ of Domitian has rev. AOPYAAEQUIN 
Zeus, naked, standing with pfzd/e in right, sceptre in left hand (Rasche Lex. Mum. 
Suppl. ii. 657). A copper of Philippus Senior has rev. ETTIMAVPTIMAIOV - A: 
APX- KCTE®AOPVAAE ©) N (émi M. Adp. Timatou a’ dpx. ke red.) Zeus standing 
to front, but facing left, with thunderbolt in right hand (Srz¢. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia 
pp. lvii, 198 pl. 25, 8). Cp. a copper of Gordianus Pius, having for reverse type two men 
(Dorylaos and Akamas ?), each of whom holds a pAzdé/e over a flaming altar, while an eagle 
hovers above it (Imhoof-Blumer A7eznzas. Miinzen i. 226 no. 4, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins 
Phrygia p. 197 pl. 25, 7). I. Meliopoulos in the 4zh. M7tth. 1897 xxii. 480 f. publishes a 
dedication from Dorylaeion [—---—-— ?] Bou vide Aci Tarpaé[uws—-—-—] | [owrApe amavjros 
avOpwmuwv yévolus ————— | | [... kal @eot]s ZeBacrots cal Peats VeBaorais [kai ‘O]|[uovotar 
TeBaorh Kal Oede' Padune cal Pee DuveAHrar|[Kal TSc] Sjuwe ‘Pwuaiwy k.7.r. Zeus Ilarpwos 
here means Hadrian as in Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no. 3187, 5 ff. Smyrna Avos Iarpwou, 
Adrox[pdropos, dpxrepéws]|ueylicrov, marpds Tals marpldos? Kal gwrnpos?]| Tod ctumavTos 
av[@pwrelov yévous* k.7-.]. Sir W. M. Ramsay Svedies in the History and Art of the 
Eastern Provinces of the Roman Empire Aberdeen 1906 p. 276 f. among other dedications 
to Zeus Brontén at Dorylaeion includes no. g a s¢é/e with pointed pediment, garland 
underneath, and letters under garland: Adp. Anués ’Ao[c]\viov brép éav|rod Ké Tay (di\wv 
mavrov Act D|nuavtic@ edjxqnv. The god that sent thunder and lightning thereby gave 
onuara (supra p. 4). 

Evidence of the worship of Dionysos at Dorylaeion is collected by W. Quandt De 
Baccho ab Alexandri aetate in Asia Minore culto Halis Saxonum 1913 p. 221 f. 

2 G. Radet ‘En Phrygie’ in the Mouvelles Archives des Missions Scientifiques Paris 1895 
Vi. 425—594- 

% A. Korte in the Gott. gel. Anz. 1897 clix. 409 f. 

4 H. Usener Gotternamen Bonn 1896 pp. 43, 70 f. 

> Sir W. M. Ramsay Studies in the History and Art of the Eastern Provinces of the 
Roman Empire Aberdeen 1906 p. 275. 

8 Supra i. 4 n. 2. 

© Supra p. 277 ff. 


— Dios and Dios N9sos 281 


view must—as it now seems to me—be definitely preferred to the 
alternative hypothesis. If so, we have here the old Thraco-Phrygian 
Dios Hellenised, as might have been expected, into a Zeus Dvéos. 
Korte remarks that at. Dorylaeion there were seven tribes named 
after the Mother of the gods, Zeus, Poseidon, Sarapis, Apollon, 
Aphrodite, and Augustus respectively’. But, since the tribe of Zeus 
was known as Deéa*, its eponymous deity was conceivably the 
Phrygian Déos rather than the Greek Zezs*. Be that as it may, 
Zeus Dzos was a god of Dionysiac character, for his altar is deco- 
rated with grape-bunches‘ and a plough®. He should therefore be 


1 A. Korte in the Got. gel. Anz. 1897 clix. 401 f. 

* Id. zw. 400 f. no. 45 a marble base inscribed Oeds jyod. | elkova tHvde | orHoav 
ayakrXe:|T@ Urparovel|k@ pudrérat | of Aclas ei|var d-yaddomevor. K.T.r. 

8 The inference is uncertain : « may be for ¢ as in Zrparoveikw. But cp. the name 
Acoveras in the neo-Phrygian inscription no. 69, 10 f. (W. M. Calder in the Journ. Hell. 
Stud. 1913 xxxiil. 98 ff. cites Aeovas from G. Perrot—E. Guillaume—J. Delbet Z.xflora- 
tion archéologique de la Galatie et de la Bithynie d’une partie de la Mysie de la Phrygie, de 
la Cappadoce et du Pont Paris 1872 i. 52). 

* Zeus is connected with the vine by an early Phrygian myth. According to Akousilaos 
of Argos, one of the older logographers (c. 525 B.C.), Priamos persuaded Astyoche, wife of 
Telephos, to send her son Eurypylos from Mysia to Troy by presenting her with a golden 
vine (Akousilaos frag. 27 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 103 Miiller) af. schol. Q.V. Od. 11. 520, cp. 
schol. B.Q. Od. 11. 521). Some said that Priamos had himself made the vine (schol. Iuv. 6. 
655—a notice full of confusions). But others stated that it was the golden vine which Zeus 
had given to Tros in exchange for Ganymedes and that it had passed to Priamos by way 
of inheritance (schol. T.V. Od. 11. 521, Eustath. 7 Od. p. 1697, 31 ff.). This version was 
derived from Lesches of Lesbos (c. 660—657 8.C.), who in his //ias parva frag. 6 Kinkel 
ap. schol. Eur. Zo. 821 and Or. 1392 described the vine as follows : &umedov, nv Kpovidns 
€ropev oi (so G, W. Nitzsch for of) raids arowa | xpucetnv (ypvoetors schol. Eur. 770. 821) 
gidroow ayavoto. (J. Barnes corr. ayavvotow, F. Osann cj. dyaupotow, Jortin cj. 
ayavotow, J. G. Schneider cj. lav@éoe kal or dw’ dvOeor Kai, J. G. J. Hermann cj. ravap- 
yupéois—an amazingly stupid emendation) coudwoar | Borpuai @ (Bérpvor schol. Eur. Ov. 
1392), ods"H@atoros érackynoas Aut rarpi | dx’, 6 dé (marpi d&xev, | adap 6 schol. Eur. 
Or. 1392) Aaouédovre mépev Tavupndeos avi. The tree, which forms the background for 
Ganymedes and the eagle in the Vatican group after Leochares (Overbeck Gr. Kvnstmyth. 
Zeus p. 521 ff. Atlas pl. 8, 4: bibliography in W. Helbig Fiihrer durch die offentlichen 
Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in Rom Leipzig 1912 i. 249 f. no. 386, ii. 473), is 
perhaps meant for this famous vine-stem. A similar tale told how Tithonos, the brother 
of Priamos, was induced by the gift of a golden vine to send Memnon, his son by Heos, to 
help the Trojans (Serv. zz Verg. den. 1.489). I take it that the golden vine belonged to the 
regalia of Troy and that its presence ensured the protection of the Thraco-Phrygian Zeus. 

Parallels are not wanting. Pythios son of Atys, a Lydian, gave Dareios a golden plane- 
tree and vine (Hdt. 7. 27, Plin. zat. hzst. 33. 137 (Pythis Bithyni), Aristeid. 07. 13. 129 
(i. 210 Dindorf) with schol. ad /oc. p. 147, 19 ff. Dindorf, Tzetz. chz/. 1. 923 ff., cp. Plout. 
mul. virt. 27, Polyain. 8. 42). These no doubt became heirlooms. For the Persian kings 
had a golden vine studded with gems above their couch (Chares of Mitylene frag. 10 
(Script. hist. Alex. Mag. p. 117 Miiller) af. Athen. 514 E—F, Amyntas frag. 4 (Script. 
hist. Alex. Mag. p. 136 Miiller) af. Athen. 514 F), or golden planes and a golden vine 
with jewels for grapes, beneath which they often sat to transact business (Phylarchos 
Frag. 41 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 345 Miiller) af. Athen. 539 D. And over the doors of Herod’s 
temple at Jerusalem rose a gigantic golden vine with hanging clusters (Ioseph. aze¢. /ud. 15. 


282 Dios and Dios N¥ysos : 


compared with Zeus Dzénysos (fig. 178) of north-eastern Thrace’, 














ss <4 


— 























cs ———— 
SSS ee oO Baa A WHS oe, : aye rita 


= dr 


is | NOYLEPEYCBAFKIC ie 
4 iONANE OFEAGELIAILAL 0. 


CAME SUES NE 





Me 


hy 





qr’ 


Mew h oy 


“up| 


CW wi eae 





with Zeus Sabdézzos whose worship radiated from Phrygia (pl. xix)’, 


tr. 3), which made people think that the Jews worshipped Liber Pater (Tac. Azs¢. 5. 5). 
See further Boetticher Bawmhultus pp. 212—214 (‘ Metallene Baume’) and G. W. Elderkin 
in the Am. Journ. Arch. 1917 xxi. 407 f. (‘The Vine of Pythios and Andocides’). Note 
also Zuscr. Gr. Deli ii no. 161 B 44 dumredos xXpvoeH doraros in an inventory of 279/280 B.c. 

> Galen. de aliment. facult. t. 13 (vi. 515 Kiihn) notes that the grain called ¢edmvpov 
was grown at Dorylai (szc) in Phrygia. 

1 G. Kazarow in the Jahrd. d. kats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1915 xxx Arch. Anz. pp. 87— 
89 fig. 1 (=my fig. 178) publishes a marble base (0°55™ high, 0°65™ broad) of late Roman 
date, from Malko- 7irnovo in the Bulgarian territory of Buxgas, inscribed with a dedica- 
tion eq Awd Aroviow by the priest of a Baxxetov (Am. Fourn. Arch. 1916 xx. 228). The 
text runs: ..cevoU iepeds Baxxlov [Tov Bw]|uov avé@nka GG Aut Aco[yd]|ow vrép éavrod Kai 
Tov Té[KY]|wv ov cwvubaTwY Tepl | cwrnplas. The interest and importance of the find made 
in this locality is great. Malko-Tirnovo is within easy reach of Viza, the ancient Bizye, 
chieftown of the Thracian Astai. 

2 Supra i. 390 ff. Thanks to the courtesy of Mr W. H. Buckler, I am enabled to 
supplement my previous account by publishing a new and important s¢ée, which he has 
lately presented to the British Museum. PI. xix is from a photograph by Mr R. B. Fleming. 
Mr Buckler writes: ‘This small stele, in good preservation except for the missing base, 
was bought for 20 francs at the bazaar in Constantinople in June, 1914, from a dealer who 
professed to know nothing of its origin. It then consisted of two closely fitting fragments, 
divided by a line of breakage passing through the eagle’s neck and down along the front 
of the horse’s fore leg. The lower part of the stele appeared to have recently been 
chiselled away; before restoration the lower edge, showing the coarse-grained bluish 
marble, of a kind common in Western Asia Minor, looked quite freshly cut. The inscrip- 
tion was then intact: Hiruxos Al ZaBafelw | kar’ dvipoy xapistyprov. This inscription 
(A, 2, 1) might be as early as 1st century B.C., but of course dating from such indica- 
tions is pretty uncertain. On the journey to London the larger fragment was broken in 


Plate XIX 





Stéle obtained by W. H. Buckler in Constantinople: Zeus Saddézéos on 
horseback, with altar, £va¢ér, and leafless tree, in which are eagle and snake, 
surmounted by votive inscription. 


See page 282 n. 2. 





Dios and Dios N9sos 283 


two, and this break, which shows clearly in the plate, almost destroyed the fifth letter in 
dvepov. Dimensions as follows: Height, as now restored, 46cm. Original portion: height 
34 cm. ; width at top 36 cm., at bottom 364 cm.; depth of recessed panel 14 cm. ; thickness 
at top 6 to 4cm. Back roughly tooled.’ 

The relief shows Zeus Saddzios as a bearded god on horseback advancing towards an 
ancient leafless tree. He wears a chzténx with short sleeves, a stiff champs over his back, 
and a diadem round his head. He holds a thunderbolt in his right hand, a couple of 
spears in his left. In the tree is an eagle side by side with a snake. Beneath the tree 
burns a small square altar, close to which stands a wide-mouthed fratér. Thunderbolt 
and eagle characterise the god as Zeus; snake and £va/ér (cp. Dem. de cor. 259 kparnpifwr), 
as Saddzios. All four attributes are found on the Saédézdos-monuments already noted 
(supra i. 391 ff. fig. 296 bronze hand, pl. xxvii bronze relief), which likewise have the 


LLY A VAN 


IN ‘i 


BEN AN A IP oS AOH NOA& 
POY AI Pay pt ae ee | 
EYoOOH'N 





Fig. 179. 


eagle and snake juxtaposed in friendly fashion. The unusual features of this s¢é/e are the 
conception of the god as a rider and his connexion with a dream. Zeus Saddzzos is not 
elsewhere an equestrian figure, unless it be he who on the well known but little under- 
stood bronze plaque from Rome, now at Berlin (F. Lajard in the Moz. d. Znst. iv pl. 38, 1, 
id. Recherches sur le culte du cyprées pyramidal Paris 1854 pp. 113 ff., 281 f., 360 pl. 7, 6, 
E. Gerhard ‘Phrygische Gotter zu Pferd’ in the Arch. Zert. 1854 xii. 209 ff. pl. 65, 3 
($ 3 (c) i(o)), Reinach Rép. Reliefs ii. 30 no. 3, W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 
2744, T. Eisele 24. iv. 250), swings a double axe as he gallops over a prostrate human 
form. But the god appears in a variety of poses (figs. 179, 180, 185) according to local 
convention, and here it is not difficult to recognise the influence of Thrace (supra fig. 175). 
As to the dream, it will be remembered that in Aristoph. vesp. g ff. Sosias and Xanthias 
both get dreams from Saédzios. Xanthias sees a great eagle carry off an asp to the sky; 


284 Dios and Dios N9sos 


Sosias sees sheep in the ekh/es/a, etc.—fancies obviously suggested by the attributes (eagle, 
snake, ram) of Sabdézios himself. 

Other reliefs illustrating the cult of Zeus Saddzios are listed by T. Eisele in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. iv. 243 ff. -They include: (1) A relief in white marble, drawn by A. Conze at 
Schoinoudi in Imbros, but said to have come from Blaudos (Bald) in the Mysian district 
of Abrettene (A. Conze Reise auf den Inseln des Thrakischen Meeres Hannover 1860 
































I= TEOANH| 

DOPOYTAY KANOS HROAOHNANKATOIKIAKA 

OlEPQLANAIAZTABAZ IONE TINEPEQNATIOA | 
A QNIOYTOYIOAAAK AIATIOAAQNIOY TOYAAITT 
TOYA! LQTTOY KAIMHTPAAS KAHTIAAOY KAI 

“AAO POYKAEQNOSKAIKAEQNOE ME, 

* AWAQNIOYA LANOS KATA 


ni Cap 





ii ep 7 


ne / / mir 
IU ire . 1 Yon 
ate tli lio. T™ 


Fig. 180. 


p. 98 ff. pl. 17, 7=my fig. 179, T. Eisele Zoc. cit. iv. 243 fig. 2). The god, who is beard- 
less, sits on a high-backed throne, with a band (?) round his head, a phzd/e in his right 
hand, and a spear or sceptre in his left. Beside him is a tree (palm ?), up which his snake 
is coiled. Before him an altar, on which a man, followed by a woman, deposits a pinch 
of incense. Inscribed: Mévavdpos "AOnvodd|pov Ad Laakian | edxjv. Dadéos is a mason’s 
mistake for Zadf1os = DaBadgios (O. Héfer in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 229). Height c. 0°25™, 


Dios and Dios N4sos 285 


with Zeus Poteos (fig. 187) of Dionysopolis on the upper Maiandros 
in Phrygia!, with Zeus Poteds(?) of Limnobria? (Burdur) on the 


breadth c. 0°18™. (2) A relief in white marble, found by A. Wagener in the court of a 
private house at Koloé (Xoz/a) in Lydia (A. Wagener /uscriptions grecques recueillies en 
Asie Mineure (in Mémoires couronnés et mémoires des savants érangers, publiés par 
Lacadémie royale des sciences, des lettres et des beaux-arts de Belgique 1858—1861 XXX) 
pp: 3—19 pl. A, 1 inscription only, T. Eisele doc. cit. iv. 243 f. fig. 3=my fig. 180). The 
upper register shows a beardless male figure (Zeus Saédzios) driving towards the left 
a two-horsed vehicle. On the reins is seen an eagle; beneath the horses, a snake. The 
equipage is accompanied by a male figure (Men, cp. swfra i. 193, 642) with a Phrygian 
cap (so Wagener: Eisele says, a bowl-shaped helmet) and a winged caduceus, between 
which appears a crescent moon. The remainder of the panel is filled by a personage 
pouring a libation at a raised altar and by three worshippers with gestures of adoration. 
The lower register groups thirteen worshippers about an altar, behind which rises a sacred 


tree. On the altar are piled round objects like loaves. Inscribed: érous pze (185 of the 
Sullan or Lydo-Phrygian era=1or A.D.), wy(vos) Aaoiou a, émi srepayn|pdpov Tikwvos, h 
Kodonvay xatorkia Ka\@cépwoav Aia DaBagiov, émi iepéwy ’Amo\|Awviou Tod *1éAXNa Kal ’Azron- 
Awviov tod Aatm\rov Aicwrov kal Myntpa ’Ackdynmiddov kai | [’Apre]ucdwpov KAéwvos Kal 
Kyéwvos Me|[vexparous cai A |mo\Xwviou Aiwvos cai A.. Height c. 1°50™, breadth c. 0°75™, 
Wagener with much probability concludes that a solar Zeus Saddztos is here conducted 
to his temple by the lunar Men, who is equipped with the caduceus of Hermes. The 
personage pouring a libation is—he supposes—the stephanephérvs Glykon, and the sixteen 
suppliants are the priests of the god assisting at his installation. Since the Macedonian 
Daisios=the Attic Thargelion (W. Dittenberger in Pauly—Wissowa fea/-Enc. iv. 2014), 
it would seem that Daisios 1 was a sort of May-day festival. (3) A marble relief at 
Philadelpheia (4/a-Shefzr) in Lydia represents Zeus Saddzzos seated on a throne, holding 
a large-bodied vase in which a shrub is planted (O. Rayet in the Bull. Corr, Hell. 1877 
i. 307—309, T. Eisele Zoc. cit. iv. 244). Inscribed: Aut Kopudaiw Ala Laloudgiov Neavd- 
eirnv | ILNouriwy IW)ouriwvos | Maiwy edxnv. Height o°60™, breadth 0°37". The image 
of Zeus Daovagios NeavAeirys (2.e. Zeus DaBagios of NeavAy (Néa Avd7)) is here dedicated 
to Zeus Kopud¢atos of Philadelpheia (on whom see zz/rva Append. B). (4) In the winter 
of 1864—1865 workmen digging at Vichy (?=Aquae calidae in Aquitania: M. [hm in 
Pauly—Wissowa feal-Z£nc. ii. 298) near a well full of Roman remains found a packet of 
eighty A/agues of thin silver foil, together with a coin of Gordianus and the statuette of a 
newborn babe in thin silver backed with resin. The éra¢teae, which vary from 0'05™ to 
o'17™ in height and from o’02™ to 0’07™ in breadth, are now in the Musee de Saint- 
Germain. They have in almost every case a tree or leaf impressed upon them (figs. 181, 182). 
Some add an aedicwla, in which stands lupiter with sceptre, bolt, and eagle (figs. 184—186), 
flanked on one specimen by a couple of grape-vines (fig. 186). Others symbolise the 
god by his bolt and reduce the vines to mere scrolls (fig. 183). The most important 
type subjoins a label inscribed: Numin- Aug-deo lovi Sa|ba-sio (szc)-G- Iul - Caras|- 
sounus:v-s-l-m (fig. 185). See further C. Rossignol—A. Bertrand ‘ Notice sur les 
découvertes faites a Vichy et en particulier sur des Bractéoles votives d’argent’ in the 
Bulletin de la Société d’ Emulation du département de l’ Ailier (Sciences, Arts et Belles- 
lettres) Moulins 1889 xviii. 185—232 pls. 1—8, of which pl. 1, 1 and 2=my figs. 181, 182, 
pl. 3, 1 and 3=my figs. 184, 186, pl. 4, 1=my fig. 183, pl. 5=my fig. 185, T. Eisele 
loc. cit. iv. 245, Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 1496. Similar dratéeae in S. Lysons Religuie 
Britannico-Romane London 1817 ii pls. 38—41, Corp. tnscr. Lat. vii nos. 80 f., 84—86, 
supra i. 626 ff. Cp. the ‘silver shrines of Diana’ made at Ephesos (Acts 19. 24). 

1 A guasi-autonomous copper of Dionysopolis, struck in the time of Alexander 
Severus (?), has obv. ZEVCTTOTHOC AIONVCOTTOAEITXLN’ Head of Zeus 
Ilornos, wearing fillet, to right, within border of dots; rev. CTPATHTOVN- 


TOC[CJQ[C] TPATOVB The river-god Maiandros recumbent to left, with reed and 


Dios and Dios N9sos 


286 





wx Oa \ Shee: 2 
CL ETS ae ae 





ee (SZ 
A 




















Dios and Dios Njsos ~ 287 


eastern side of Lake Askania in Pisidia!, and with Zeus Bdkchos of 
Pergamon in Mysia®. The plain fact is that to the Phrygians Zeus 





cornu copiae, and behind him au inverted vase from which flows his river. ME ANAPOC 
in exergue. All within border of dots (Eckhel Doctr. num. vet.? iii. 150 f., Overbeck G7. 
Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 223, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia pp. lv, 183 pl. 23, 4, Head Ast. 
nun.” p. 671, O. Hofer in Roscher Lev. AZyh. iii. 2902 f.). Fig. 187 is from a cast of the 
specimen in the British Museum. R. Rochette in the Journal des savants 1842 p. 10 n. 1 
held that Ilornos was a local epithet. Gerhard G7. AZyth. i. 169 took roréos (szc) to denote 
a rain-god. Sir W. M. Ramsay Ze Citzes and Bishoprics of Phrygia Oxford 1895 i. 
126 n. 2 suggests ‘a rude attempt at the Greek Ilvrios (for IHv@os,..).’ Lenormant—de 
Witte £7. mon. cér. i. 29 were the first to detect ‘un caractére bachique,’ which is 
rendered practically certain by the inscription from Burdur (znfra n. 1). 

1 A stéle mentioning Zeus Ioreds (?) or Torys (?) or Idris (?), found at Bouldour or 
Burdur in Pisidia, was published by M. Collignon in the Bud/. Cor. Hell. 1879 iii. 335 no. 3 
Mevvéas Ap|reucddpov | te|peds | Ad | ILor|e | rov [B]wudy | avéornoev. The stone (0°65™ 
high, 0°33™ broad, 0*20™ thick) is adorned with reliefs—a bunch of grapes on its right side, 
a wreath on its left, and a decranzum adjoining the inscription in front. This interesting 
record of a Dionysiac Zeus was re-published by Sir W. M. Ramsay Zhe Cities and 
Bishoprics of Phrygia Oxford 1895 i. 337 f. no. 178, cp.76. i. 126n. 2. See also O. Hofer 
in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 2902 f. 

> Corp. tnscr. Gr. ii no.. 3538, 30 ff. = M. Frankel in Pergamon viii, 1 no. 324, 30 ff. 
= Kaibel Zfigr. Gr. no. 1035. 20 ff.=Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 6. 172. 20 ft. (directions 
to avert the plague of 166 A.D.) émrd yepacpdvtwv els Huara whpa émi Bwu(d)y, | Lladdddu 
Mev moaxou dterHpovos &fuyos ayvod | Salovres, Tpévov dé Boos Act, cai Ad Baxxwe | doavrws 
kal madi Kopwvidos 7adéoro (E. Cougny cj. Al@aéovo cp. Pind. Pyth. 3. 75 ff.). | ravpou 
Mnpia péfuvres mporitioxete daira, | HiBeor, xAaumUderor audeupevor Ommoca é[aré] | ux 
operépwy vicgw marépwy: x.7.d. See further 7z/ra Append. B Mysia. 

Zeus Baxxos is presumably to be equated with the important Pergamene god Zeus 
ZaBacios (M. Frankel in Pergamon viii, 1 no. 248, 31 ff. Attalos iii Philometor (138— 
133 B.C.), nephew and successor of Attalos ii Philadelphos (159—138 B.C.), says of 
Sosandros, c¥ytpopos of Eumenes ii (197—159 B.C.) and priest of Dionysos Ka@yyeuwy at 
Pergamon: todrov éyévynoev, we Kai yevoudvar délw rod olkov Nudy To | meu mpaTov 
"Arranos 6 Oeids pov ody Kal Tie €ute yuoune favros | ért TOG Dwodvdpou Ziwxe did yévous 
iepewovvnv thy Tod Avos | Tod LVaBafiov rimwrdrny obfcau map’ juiv, torepov dé werad- 
Adéavros | roo Dwodvdpov dia Thu epi avdrov ovaay Kadoxdyablay Kal mepl 7d Gelc]lov 
evoeBevay Kal Thy mpos Nuds elvoay Kal miotry Kal THs TOU Kabnye|udvos Avoviicou lepewovv ns 
n&wcayev airov, kplvavres adroy kal | ravrns elvar dévov ris Tyuunns Kal mpewovTws mpo- 
oT (€)o0at wvor[ypil|wv TyALKOUTWy Kay Kal”ATTaNos 6 Hetds wou, K.T.d., 26. 45 ff. Attalos ili 
says of Stratonike, wife of Eumenes ii: é7rel Bac[i]|\ooa Ztparovixn 7H majrnp mov evce- 
Beordrn wey yevouevyn macav, Pidlo]|oropyordrn dé SiadepdvTws mpds Te TO TaTépa wou Kal 
mpos éué, | mods amravras ev Tovs eods evoeBOs mpoonvexOn, uddiora dé | rpds Tov Ala Tov 
DaBadfiov, warporapddoroy (see infra) abroy Kopuicaca eis | Ti warplia judy, dy Kal eu 
ToNAats mpdéeot kal éu moddots kwdv\yous mapacrdrny Kal BonBov jury yevouevoy explvauer 
bua Tas EF avrod | yevoudvas émipavelas cvyKxadiepdoar THe Nixnpdpux ’AOnvae (sc. in the 


288 Dios and Dios N}sos 


and Dionysos were but different aspects of the self-same god. As 
Sir W. M. Ramsay, the highest living authority on Phrygia and all 
its ways, expresses it, ‘The father and the son...are merely com- 
plementary forms of the single ultimate form of the divinity as 
male!, or again ‘the character and personality of the God-father 
and God-son pass into one another in such.a way in the divine tale 
or drama, that no clear line can be drawn to separate them®.’ This 
essential unity saute aux yeux, if—as I have supposed—the former 
deity was originally named Dios and the latter Dios V/sos. Well 
might Christianity take root and flourish (we know that it did*) 
among a people, who had already learnt that the Son was in the 
Father and the Father in the Son‘. One of the earliest extant 
representations of our Lord, the tombstone of Abirkios and his 
wife Theuprepia, erected c. 300 A.D. at Prymnessos (Sedum) in 
central Phrygia (fig. 188), shows Him as a youth raising His right 


Nikephérion outside the city), vouloav Tes ToOTov abrax dévoy Kai mpémovra Témov Umapxew, 
dueratdue|Oa dé akoovOws TovTas Kai wept voy Kai rouTOy Kal wuoTypiwy | Tv émredov- 
pévap mpd Toews abrae ev Tois KaOHKovGL Kaipois Kal TOToLs* | Eronoaper dé adTod Kal lepéa 
dua yévous "AOjvaiov Tov émov (a slip for Tov cuyyerA Tov éuor, as Frankel saw), evoeBeiar 
ka{i] | kadoxayablar dcadépovta kai THe mpos NMas mioreL* K.T.\.=Michel Recuezl a’ Luscr. 
gr. no. 46, 31 ff., 45 ff. = Dittenberger Ovzent. Gr. inscr. sel. no. 331, 31 ff., 45 ff.). 

In this connexion it is not without significance that P. Aelius Aristides, a native of 
Hadrianoi in Mysia, who had studied rhetoric under Aristokles at Pergamon (Philostr. v. 
Aristid. p. 83, 25 ff. Kayser), remarks: #6n 6€ tewwy FKovoa Kal Erepov Noyov brép ToUTwY 
dru avros 6 Leds ely 6 Acovucos (Aristeid. 07. 4. 29 (i. 49 Dindorf)). The allusion is in all 
probability to the Thraco-Phrygian god called by the Pergamenes Zeus Baxxos or Zeus 
DaBdacios, whom Stratonike, wife of Eumenes ii, had introduced from the court of her 
father Ariarathes iv Eusebes, king of Kappadokia (c. 220—c. 163 B.C.). 

It is noteworthy that on the Akropolis of Pergamon, south of the great altar of Zeus 
(seepra i. 118 ff.), stood a Hellenistic temple of Dionysos (Ka@nyeuwy ?) with a prostyle 
tetrastyle facade of guasz-Doric order (R. Bohn Der Tempel des Dionysos zu Pergamon 
Berlin 1885 (extr. from the Adzk. d. berl. Akad. 1884 Phil.-hist. Classe), E. Fabricius in 
Baumeister Dezkm. li. 1217, E. Pontremoli and M. Collignon Pergame, restauration et 
description des monuments de lacropole Paris 1g00 pp. 55—57, K. Hachtmann Pergamon 
Giitersloh 1900 p. 26). 

1 SirW. M. Ramsay Zhe Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia Oxford 1895 i. 34. Seealso 
the same author’s article on Phrygian religion in J. Hastings Ancyclopedia of Religion and 
Ethics Edinburgh 1917 ix. goo ff. 

2 Id. The Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia i. 140. 

3 See e.g. Sir W. M. Ramsay Zhe Church in the Roman Empire Before A.D. 170 
London 1893 pp. 37 ff., go ff., 146, 436 ff., 7d. The Czties of St Paul London 1907 
p- 315 ff., and especially zd. in J. Hastings A Dictionary of the Bible Edinburgh 1900 iii. 
863—869. Cp. also F. Cumont Les religions orientales dans le paganisme romain Paris 
1909 p. 75 ff., T. Eisele ‘ Die phrygischen Kulte und ihre Bedeutung fiir die griechisch- 
romische Welt’ in the Weze Jahrb. f. klass. Altertum 1909 xxiii. 620—637. 

+ John 14. 10. 

6 Sir W. M. Ramsay The Church in the Roman Empire Before 4.D. 170 London 1893 
pp. 440—442 with pl. (=my fig. 188), E. Legrand—J. Chamonard in the Bull. Corr. 
Ffell. 1893 xvii. 290 no. 98, F. Cumont ‘ Les Inscriptions Chrétiennes de l’Asie Mineure’ 
in Mélanges @ Archéologie et d Histoire 189% xv. 278 no. 190, Sir W. M. Ramsay The Cities 


Dios and Dios N¥sos 





SUMMING MM LLUMM MMM bs 

“4, a 7 

A V3 y 

4 V/ i ZR a 

| 
, He yy 

he 
1) |G 7 B 
; 
V 
" 


LYM BIWMoY: 
eT 





—— 
ae 
Ce 


=] 
EI 
sl 


{I Se a oe 


UMTAARTAT 


WML WHAM N ALL Lh Li 

My TFB: ) 

iy ZY ge ¢ 

Yee: G g 
4 Y 

p K | 0 fe ; | 
SY A 
{ j i; 
W L, 3 | 









290 Dios and Dios Npsos 


and Bishoprics of Phrygia Oxford 1897 i. 2. 736 f. with pl. Beneath the inscription 
"ABlpxcos | ILopdupiou | dudxwv xa\recxedaca | TO wendprov | EavTd kal TH | cvmBiw pov | Oev- 
mpetin | Ké rots Téxvors stands the Saviour between two heads representing the souls of 
Abirkios and Theuprepia. 

The conception of the head as the seat of the soul (E. Bethe in the Rhez2. Mus. 1907 
Ixil. 465 n. 62, L. Radermacher in the Avchiv f. Rel. 1908 xi. 412 ff., A. E. Crawley 
The Idea of the Soul London 1909 p. 239) is responsible for much in ancient literature (the 
epic vexvwy duevyva xapnva, the tragic pidov xdpa, the colloquial & w.apa kepady, etc.), art 
(the herm, the mask, the bust, the medallion, etc.), and custom (e.g. separate burial of the 
head (Korybantes sera i. 107 ; Oeovpyot Prokl. ix Plat. theol. 4. 9 p. 193 Portus Kal (6 
mavTw éori Oavuacrorarov) dre Tay Oeoupyav Odmrev TO cHua KehevivTwwv, TAIV THs Kepats, 
év TH muoTiKwrdrn TeV TeheTav, 6 IINdtwv (Phaedr. 250 C) kal TotTo mpoeihnger, ir’ abrav 
Kwovpevos Tov GeGv; Battos Herakleides Pontikos frag. 4. 4 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 212 Miiller); 
on Capitol at Rome Varr. de ling. Lat. 5. 41, Liv. 1. 55, 5. 54, Dion, Hal. ant. Rom. 4.59, 
Plin. zat. hést. 28. 15, Arnob. adv. nat. 6. 7, Aur. Vict. de vir. ill. 8. 4, interp. Serv. zx 
Verg. Aen. 8. 345, Isid. orzg. 15. 2. 31, cp. E. Babelon Collection Pauvert de la Chapelle: 
Lntailles et Camées Paris 1899 p. 44 f. no. 111 fig. and pl. 7, 111, Furtwangler Azz. 
Gemmen iii. 451 f. fig. 233, and Class. Rev. 1904 xvili. 371 n. 20: archaeological evidence 
from Egypt is cited by Furtwangler Az¢. Gemmen ili. 252 n. 3 and especially by Sir W. M. 
Flinders Petrie Ancient Egypt Part iv 1916, from Megara Hyblaia, Syracuse, the Aeolian 
Myrina, etc. by A. Mau in Pauly—Wissowa feal-Znc. iii. 341 f., from the Scandinavian 
area by P. I). Chantepie de la Saussaye Zhe Religion of the Teutons Boston-London 1902 
p- 303), and divination by means of a severed head (head of Osiris floats to Byblos Loukian. 
de dea Syr. 7; head of Orpheus floats to Lesbos—see Furtwangler Anz. Gemmen i pls. 22, 
I—9, 13 f., 61, 51, ii. 107 f., 277, ili. 245—252 with figs. 138 f., and O. Gruppe in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. iii. 1069, 1168 ff., 1177 f. fig. 3 ; head of Archonides preserved in honey and 
consulted by Kleomenes i (?) of Sparta Ail. var. ist. 12. 8; head of Publius prophesies 
after victory at Thermopylai in rgt B.c. Antisthenes the Peripatetic (/rag. hist. Gr. ill. 182 
Miiller, but see E. Schwartz in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2537 f.) ap. Phleg. mr. 3 ; 
head of priest of Zeus ‘OmAécmu0s in Arkadia (?) reveals the name of murderer Aristot. de 
part. an. 3. 10. 673 a 17 ff. wep 5é Kapiav (kap..av E. xap P. dpxadlay Z.) otrw 76 
Totovrov duerlorevoay wore Kal Kplow émounoavro mepl Tivos TOY éyxXwplwy. Tod yap lepéws 
Tod OmNoopulov Aros arodavévros, Ud’ drov dé 5 adnAwWs, Epacdy Tives dkoVTa THS Kepads 
dmroxekoupévns Neyovans moAdxes ‘*ém’ avdpos dvdpa Kepxidds améxrewev.” 616 kal (yr7- 
TavTes @ Ovoua Hy év TH TOTW Kepxcdas, éxpwvav. My note on this incident in the Class. Rev. 
1903 Xvil. 417 n. 1 is far-fetched and improbable. Better service has been done by 
J. Schaefer De Jove apud Cares culto Halis Saxonum 1912 p. 370 f. (cp. P. Foucart in 
Lebas—Foucart Peloponnese Explications ii. 221 and in the Rev. Arch. 1876 ii. 103, P. 
Kretschmer Die Griechischen Vaseninschriften Giitersloh 1894 p. 149), who rightly 
restores ’Apxadlay for Kapiavy, remarking that thename Kepxcdds is not found in Karia but 
is found in Arkadia, especially at Megalopolis (W. Pape—G. E. Benseler Worterbuch der 
griechischen Eigennamen*® Braunschweig 1875 i. 649, /mscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. ii nos. 
439, 40, 550, 3), that another odd tale is told about the death of a Megalopolitan Kerkidas 
(Ail. var. hist. 13. 20), and that the cult of Zeus ‘OmNécmuos is attested only for Methydrion, 
an Arcadian town which passed into the possession of Megalopolis (Collitz—Bechtel Gr. 
Dial.-Jnschr. ii. 148 f. no. 1634, 17 ff. = Michel Recuezl a’ /uscr. gr. no. 199, 17 ff. = Ditten- 
berger Syl/. inscr. Gr.* no. 229, 17 ff.=Juser. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. ii no. 344, 17 ff. 
mep[i | d€ tas Nilkas ras xpucéla]s rob Avs rod ‘Ordocptov, ay Karabévres évéxupa oi 
MeOv[dprlets of werouxn|oarres e[i]s "Opxomuerdv duethovro 76 apyvpiov k.T.X. in an Achaean 
decree of c. 234/3 B.C., cp. Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Jnschr. i. 344 no. 1203, 1o=O. 
Hoffmann Die Griechischen Dialekte Gottingen 1891 i. 18 no. 8, 1o=Michel Recuerl 
@’Inser. gr. no. 614, 1o=Luscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. ii no. 271, t0‘Omdoduias (sc. pvdds) in 
a tribal list not later than ¢. 350 B.c. Hera, and perhaps Athena, shared the title with 
Zeus. Lyk. A/. 613 f. TUpBos... | ‘Owdoculas refers to the Argive Hera (Tzetz. 7 Lyk. 
Al. 610) rather than to Athena (schol. Lyk. 47.614, cp. schol. Z/. 5. 412); Lyk. Ad. 857 f. 


Dios and Dios N#sos 291 


hand with the thumb and two fingers extended in the attitude 
peculiar to the Phrygian Zeus!—an attitude known to later ages as 
the benedictio Latina”. 


Gea | ‘Ordocpig to Hera Aaxwia. Hera‘Omdoouia was worshipped in Elis and Triphylia 
(Vzetz. 2 Lyk. AZ. 858, cp. Zonar. ex. s.v.‘Omocuéva: 7)"Hpa, where J. A. H. Tittmann 
corr. ‘Om)oopia) ; and there is said to have been a tUuBos (=Bwuds) of Athena ‘Omdocpla 
in Elis (Tzetz. 27 Lyk. 47.614). As to the origin of the appellative, ‘OwAdop0s < ‘Or)é- 
ducos < *'OrNodameos (P. Kretschmer Die Griechischen Vaseninschriften Giitersloh 1894 
p. 149 ‘also ein Compositum von é7Aov und der reducirten Form von dau- in daurnue’), 
cp. ‘OmrAddauos (P. Foucart cj. ‘OmAddauos), the giant of Methydrion who, when Rhea was 
pregnant with Zeus, was prepared to defend her against Kronos (Paus. 8. 32. 5, 8. 36. 2). 
See further Immerwahr Awlt. Myth. Arkad. p. 26 f., O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Real- 
Enc. viii. 2299). Possibly the same belief in the sanctity of the decorporated head 
accounts for the Chiesa delle Anime de’ Corpi Decollati at Palermo (see E. S. Hartland in 
Folk-Lore 1910 xxi. 168 ff. pls. 8—ro). 

1 Supra i. 391 n. 3. 

? On the denedictio Graeca and the benedictio Latina see R. Sinker in Smith—Cheetham 
Dict. Chr. Ant. i. 199 figs. and E. Fehrenbach in the Dictionnaire a’ Archéologie Chré- 
tienne et de Liturgie publ. par Le R. P. dom F. Cabrol Paris 1910 ii. 749 ff. figs. 1489— 
1492. Various attempts have been made to read a symbolic meaning into these gestures, as 
may be seen in the articles here cited. A new, but not very probable, notion was started at 
Oxford in 1908 by my friend Dr J. Rendel Harris, who concluded an important address on 
‘Some points in the Cult of the Heavenly Twins’ by suggesting—to the manifest alarm 
ofa French ecclesiastic in the front row—‘ that the episcopal benediction with two fingers 
was originally a prayer that those blessed might have twin children’ (7'vansactions of the 
Third International Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 176). Possibly 
both the Greek and the Latin forms of benediction may prove to have been but variants of 
the prophylactic gesture known‘all round the northern shores of the Mediterranean as ‘the 
fig’: if so, it was once sexual in character, the thumb perhaps representing the pha//dés and 
the fingers the A¢efs (vide my paper on' CYKO®ANTHC’ in the Class. Rev. 1907 xxi. 
133—136. The view there taken had been in part at least anticipated by C. Sittl Dze 
Gebirden der Griechen und Rimer Leipzig 1890 p. 103 n. 1 (S. Reinach in the Rev. Zz. 
Gr. 1906 xix. 342 n. 2 (2d. Cultes, Mythes et Religions Paris 1908 iii. 98 n. 4) objects : 
‘Je ne crois pas qu’un Grec etit employé ¢aivew dans le sens d’ ‘‘exhiber” une partie du 
corps.’ But cp. the words g@awounpis and rapadaivey, iropaivew as used in the passages 
collected swpra p. 223 n. 6). Similar conclusions were reached independently by V. Riffer 
‘ Zuxopdvrns’ in the /ndogermanische Forschungen 1912 xxx. 388—390: ‘ Diese Gebarde 
stellt bekanntlich die weibliche Scham dar, und soll urspriinglich in den Damonen das sie 
abschreckende Geftihl des Abscheus hervorrufen, um sie auf diese Weise von den Menschen 
abzuwehren.’ Cp. also S. Seligmann Dev bése Blick und Verwandtes Berlin igto ii. 184 ff., 
Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 924. For rival hypotheses see M. Bréal in the 
Comptes rendus de l Acad. des tnscr. et belles-lettres 1906 p. 740 (suKopavrns is a mere 
insult=the tepopdvrys of nothing at all), S. Reinach ‘ Sycophantes’ in the Rev. Zt. Gr. 
1906 xix. 335—358 (7a. Cultes, Mythes et Religions Paris 1908 iii. g3—118) (just as the 
iepopdayTns exhibited an ear of corn to the initiates of Eleusis, so we may assume that an 
official called the cvxopdvrns exhibited a fig in the mysteries of the Phytalidai at ‘lepa Duka, 
where Demeter had once revealed (é¢nvev) the fig to Phytalos: such an official would 
doubtless have the right to exclude undesirables from his audience—hence the transition to 
cukopayTety in its usual meaning: close at hand was the ancient altar of Zeus MewAtyuos, 
“god of the Fig’ (wetAcxov), at which Theseus had been purified. perhaps with fig-juice, by 
the Phytalidai—an attractive combination, which however L. R. Farnell in Zhe Vear’s 
Work in Class. Stud. 1907 p. 62 f. is too cautious to accept. I have discussed it further 
tzfra Append. M), W. R. Paton ‘ The Pharmakoi and the Story of the Fall’ in the Xev. 


19—2 


292 Papas and Artis 


(8) Papas and Attis. 

The same relation of the Phrygian Son-god to the Phrygian 
Father-god is implied in the cult of Attis. Michael Konstantinos 
Psellos, the most famous Byzantine scholar of the eleventh century 
(1018—1078 A.D.)!, boldly asserts that Azis in the language of 
Phrygia meant ‘ Zeus?’—an assertion based on the Demosthenic 
evidence for Attis as a rain-god*. More weight must be attached 
to the fact that Attis, like Zeus, bore the title Papas or Papis+—a 


Arch, 1907 i. 51—57 (2. p. 52 n. 1 in support of S. Reinach: ‘I believe we both ventured 
the conjecture that there were at some time rival mysteries to those of Eleusis in which the 
hierophant, instead of solemnly exhibiting an ear of corn, as the Eleusinian hierophant did, 
exhibited a fig, and was described by the devotees of Eleusis, not as a iepopdvrns, but as 
a ouxoddyrns (with an allusion, no doubt, to the improper meaning of ctixov=pudendum 
muliebre, a meaning which still survives in Turkey).’), P. Girard ‘ Quelques réflexions sur 
le sens du mot sycophante’ in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1907 xx. 143—163 (iepopdvrys, on the 
analogy of iepoxfpvé, is taken to mean ‘apparition sacrée’ : so cvxopavTns must have meant 
‘celui gui paraissait dans le figuier, en train de voler des figues’ !)). 

1 \<. Krumbacher Geschichte der byzantinischen Litteratur von Justinian bs cum 
Ende des ostrimischen Reiches ( 527-1453)” Miinchen 1897 p. 433 ff, Sir J. E. Sandys 
A History of Classical Scholarship? Cambridge 1906 i. 412 ff. 

2 Supra i. 399 N. 3- 

3 Dem. de cor. 260 vfs drrns drrns vis, supra i. 392 n. 4. See also Arnob, adv. zat. 
5. 37 Cited supra i. 392 n. 5 (end of second paragraph). 

4 Supra i. 399 n. 3. P. Kretschmer Znleitung in die Geschichte der Griechischen 
Sprache Gottingen 1896 pp. 334, 344 f., followed by H. Hepding Aétis setne Mythen und 
sein Kult Gieszen 1903 p. 208 n. 7, prefers to accentuate Hamas. 

With Zeus Idzas or Hamas of Bithynia (Arrian. frag. 30 cited szpra i. 399 n. 3) and 
Phrygia (Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1884 v. 260 no. 12 on a small 
stéle of common stone found in a field near Nakoleia Adda Kav|xapouv Novva|dos Ovexpo- 
k|wpnticoa | Ad Ilamrg | ebvxHv ‘ Probably Dada was daughter of Kankaros Nounas, who 
had according to Phrygian custom two names, and her native village was Vekrokome,’ 
cp. zd. 2b. 1884 v. 257 f. no. 8 on a similar s¢é/e found in the same place OvAria Za|Bis 
Ilamg edx7n|v ‘I copied the inscriptions from six similar stelai, all found in the same field : 
the owner said that the ground around was full of them. They are all evidently grave- 
stones of common people: the top is ornamented in the style of a pediment, and there is 
a plain pedestal ending in a projecting spike to stick in the ground. The one which is 
here published differed from the others in having a representation of the god on it: the 
god is apparently intended to be androgynous, like the Carian Zeus, but in such rude 
work, the point can hardly be asserted positively,’ A. Kérte in the A¢h. Mth. 1897 xxii. 
32 no. 8 on the marble pediment of a small s¢ée from Bejad ’Apréuwy Ilara: Korte 
regards all these s¢é/az as votive rather than funerary ; they may well be both) and Zeus 
Ilamtas of Dorylaeion (Corp. inser. Gr. iii no. 3817 on the road from Zskishehir to 
Syed-Guz or Seid-el-Ghazt Anuds xal | Tatos trép | Body ldiwy Ial\rig Au Lwrh|pe evxnv 
kai | ‘Hpaxdy avcx|n7[@]) we must group Zeus TammGos of Prousa ad Olympum (A. von 
Domaszewski in the Avch.-ep. Mitth. 1883 vii. 174 f. no. 17 on a white marble altar now 
used as base of a wooden pillar in the mosque at Armeni Bazardshik [Aya0A] TUxm | Act 
Ilammaéw xalra ércrayiy ol[t o]uvyevis dvéa|rnoav iepjwv | .........0.+6 fees AMON Neen) | KeajeNs 
in the earth: P. Kretschmer Zeitung etc. pp- 199, 241 f. renders Ilarmd@os by ‘ Vater,’ 
but 7d. p. 242 n. 1 suggests that the word may be an ethnic), Zeus Ilazatos of Skythia 
(Hdt. 4. 59 Oeobs wer potvous rovcde iNacKovra, Iorinv wev parcora, éml dé Ala cat qv, 
voulfovres thy Vv rod Ards elvar yuvatka, mera dé rovTouvs ’Amd\Nwvd Te Kal Ovpaviny 
Adpodirny cal ‘Hpaxdéa cal “Apea. rovrous wey mavres DkvOar vevoulkact, ot 6€ Kadeduevor 


Papas and Attis 293 


sobriquet strictly comparable with our ‘Papa’ Indeed, the term 
Attis itself, as A. Fick proved in 1873%, was just a pet-name for 
‘Father.’ Now it is not a little remarkable that a youthful god, 
who stood to Kybele in the same relation as Adonis to Aphrodite®, 
should have been thus habitually saluted in a tone of affectionate 
familiarity as ‘Daddy*’ The paradox ceases to be paradoxical, if 


Baowjuoe VKvOa cal rH Tocerdéwve Ovovor. svouaterar dé DKvOcorl (on these names consult 
H. Hirt Die ndogermanen Strassburg 1907 ii. 587, E. H. Minns Scythians and Greeks 
Cambridge 1913 p. 85f.) ‘Iorin wév TaBiri, Leds 6€ dpOdrara Kata yuwmmnv ye Thy éwhy 
Kaeomevos ILamraios, 1 dé "Aria (with variant ’Azi), "Awé\Nwy 5é Oirdovpos (Orig. c. Cels. 
6. 39 thrice quotes Celsus as reading Toyyéoupor, cp. Hesych. Torécupov: tov ’Amé\dwva. 
VcvOac), Ovpavin 6é “Agpodirn ’Apriumaca (with variants ’Apimmaca, ’Apyiumaca, cp. 
Orig. ¢c. Cels. 6. 39 quoting ’Apyiuwacay as read here by Celsus, Hesych. ’Apriujacav’ 
Ovpaviay "Agpodirny, bro UKvddv. See further Gruppe Cult. Myth. orient. Rel. i. 111, 
td. Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1363 n. 3, O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Heal-Enc. ii. 1454), 
Ilocevdéwy 6€ Oautmacddas (with many variants: Orig. c. Ce/s. 6. 39 gives Oayiuacada as 
Celsus’ reading). dya\uara dé kal Bwpuods kal ynovs ob voulfovor motéery mAnY "“Apet* TovTw 
6€ voulfover, Orig. c. Cels. 5. 41 quoting Celsus ‘‘ ovdév oty otuar diapépew Ala “TYyioroy 
Kaew 7 Ziva 7) ’Adwratoy 7) DaBawd 7 ’Awodv, ws Aly’mriot, 7 Ilawatov, ws VKvOar,”’ 
5. 45 GAN’ érel Kédoos olerar undev diadépew Ata “Tyiorov kadrety  Znva 7 ’Adwraior 
7) DVaBawP FH, ws AlyUrrvot, "Amody H, ws VKvPac, Mamatov, pépe x.T.d., 5. 46 Neyérwoar dé 
kal DkvGar tov ILaratov Pedy civac Tov érl maow: adr Huels ov meccbucOa, TLHevTEs MeV TOV 
“ éml miioe Gedy, ws d€ pitov TH NaxdvTe Thy VkvdGv epyulav xal 7d €Ovos a’r&v Kal Ti 
didNexTov odK dvoudtovres Tov Bedy ws Kuplw dvduare Tw Ilamatoy, Eustath. zz Z/. p. 565, 6 
omolws kal ‘Apodérov 76 xadetrar Leds bd VevOGv dpOdrara Iamaios. C. Miiller in his 
note on Anon. ger. pont. Eux. 13 (Geogr. Gr. min. i. 405 Miiller) says of the Bithynian 
river Iamdvios: ‘Num forte nomen hoc a rama, Bithynico Jovis nomine, repetendum ?’ 
—a view adopted by W. Pape—G. E. Benseler Worterbuch der griechischen Eigennamen® 
Braunschweig 1875 ii. 1129, but rightly queried by O. Hofer in Roscher Zex. AVA. iii. 
1559) and probably also the wémoc of the Scythians (et. mag. p. 823, 31 f. of yap DKvOae, 
ayaduara twa exovres wroyara (bréyea V.) Tov Gedy, momous a’Ta (a’rod’s V.) Kadodow 
=et. Gud. p. 580, 4 ff. of yap DKOOat (sic) dyahuard Twa exovtes bréyea TOv Oewv TéTous a’Ta 
kadodow, Herodian. mepi kafodcxhs mpoowdlas 7 (i. 187, 24 f. Lentz) mémros: VKvOar yap 
Ta Tap avrois dyaduwaria momous Kadodor cited by Theognost. caz. p. 158, 14 ff. Devdac 
yap Ta map’ av’rots adyd\uara mémous Kadovct, Kabws ‘Hpwiravds év TH kad\ov—an extract 
printed in Bekker avecd. iii. 1433) and Dryopians (Plout. de aud. poem. 6 Aptomes dé 
métous Tovs daiuovas, schol. E’ Od. 1. 32 mémou of Beol Kara Tiv Tov Apvdrov puvjv: Kai 
érippnua avtt rod ped, Tzetz. iz Lyk. Al. 943 momo oi Beol, 60ev Kal 76 G wéroe Tues 
& Geol Fxoveav tap’ ‘Ounpw. 7 dé éEts Apvdrwv. See further O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. iii. 2759 f., E. H. Minns Scythians and Greeks Cambridge 1913 p. Xxxviil). 

1 See J. C. E. Buschmann ‘ Uber den Naturlaut’ in the Adh. d. berl. Ahad. 1852 
Phil.-hist. Classe pp. 391—424, E. B. Tylor Primiteve Cu/ture*® London 1891 i. 223 ff., 
P. Kretschmer Zzzleztung etc. pp. 200, 334 ff. 

2 A. Fick Die ehemalige Spracheinheit der Indogermanen Europas Gottingen 1873 
p- 414f. Cp. P. Kretschmer Zin/eitung etc. p. 355, who does not mention Fick, and 
Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1548 n. 7, Frazer Golden Bough*: Adonis Attis Osiris? i. 281 
n. 1, who follow Kretschmer. I hit upon the same (rather obvious) explanation inde- 
pendently in the Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 79, supra i. 399 n. 3. 

3 See e.g. H. Hepding Adtes seine Mythen und sein Kult Gieszen 1903 p. 123 ff., 
H. Graillot Le culte de Cybéle mére des dienx a Rome et dans lempire romain Paris 1912 
p. 208 ff., Frazer Golden Bough*: Adonis Attis Osiris* i. 261 ff. 

4 The simplest nursery-names for ‘father’ and ‘mother’ used by the ancients were 


294 The Mother-goddess and her pérearos 


we assume—as, I think, we must—that Azzis was but Papas reborn. 
After all, the Phrygians were not alone in the belief that a son 
may be the rebirth of his own father. This has been the faith of 
numerous tribes in all five continents’. And readers of Samuel 
Butler’s Life and Habit are aware that analogous views can still be 
held by sane men. 


(ce) The Mother-goddess and her pdredros. 


The Phrygian conception of the Son as the Father reborn throws 
light upon a variety of religious problems. It helps us to understand 
that otherwise perplexing aspect of old Anatolian worship, the asso- 
ciation of the Mother-goddess with a youthful pdéredros, who is 
at once her consort and her child* This is seen to involve no 
sanctioning of an essentially illicit union, but rather—at least in 
original intention—a primitive view of normal relations between 
father, mother, and son. Accordingly in the dactylic and spondaic 
lines quoted by Hippolytos (c. 235 A.D.)® from a Naassene source 
(c. 200 A.D.)4, but composed at some earlier date, perhaps under 
Hadrian, for a citharodic performance in the theatre®, Attis is 
equated with such divinities as Adonis, Osiris, Dionysos, and the 
like. The first fragment is as follows: 


Blest son of Kronos, or of Zeus, 
Or mighty Rhea, hail! 

Attis (sad name for Rhea’s use), 
Whom weeping Syrians wail 


" mas (7G?) and wa@ (Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. vi. 187 D f., H. van Herwerden Lexzcon 
Graecum suppletorium et dialecticum” Lugduni Batavorum 1910 ii. go7 f., 1082, £100). 
Even these childish vocables made their way into the language of religion. The former 
seems to have occurred in the hymn of the Salii (in Fest. p. 205 @ 11 f. Miiller, p. 222, 
22f. Lindsay pa pro parte, et po pro potissimum positum est in Saliari carmine L. C. 
Valckenaer corr. patre—a reading accepted by C. O. Miiller and by R. Kiihner— 
F, Holzweissig Aus/tihrliche Grammatik der lateinischen Sprache® Hannover 1912 i. 196): 
the latter became the name of the great mother-goddess of Asia Minor (W. Drexler in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 2215 ff., Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 1527, 1548, alzb., id. Myth. 
Lit. 1908 p. 557). Both are found in Aisch. spl. 890 ff. =899 ff. ua Ta, wa TG,... | ...6 
Ba, Vas wai, Zed with schol. 6 marep Zed, Vs wat, whence L. C. Valckenaer cj. & wat Tas, 
ma Led, C. A. Lobeck 6 wa ya, wa Zed, H. L. Ahrens (c/fra § 3 (c) i (n)) & Bayate 
Maged or & Bayate ra Zed. 

1 Frazer Golden Bough*: The Magic Art i. 104 (Lower Congo), 2d.*: Adonis Attis 
Osiris* i. gt f. (Lower Congo), A. E. Crawley The /dea of the Soul London 1909 p. 233 ff, 
and especially E. S, Hartland Primitive Paternity London 1909 i. 195—199 (Maidu of 
California, ancient Irish, Indian Aryans, Egyptians, Kulin tribe of S.E. Australia, ancient 
Scandinavians). Cf. /olk-Lore 1905 xvi. 293 (ancient Italians). 

2 Supra i. 645 with n. 12, 648. 

3G. Salmon in Smith—Wace Dict. Chr. Biogr. iii. 93 ff., H. Lietzmann in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. viii. 1874 f. 

4 F. Legge Forerunners and Rivals of Christianity Cambridge 1915 ii. 11 f., 26 n. 5. 

> U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff in Hermes 1902 xxxvii. 329. 


The Mother-goddess and her paredros 295 


As lost Adonis ; Egypt’s eyes 
Have her Osiris seen ; 
Hellenic sages recognise 
The heavenly horn of Men ; 


In thee the Samothracians chant 
Adamna’s! sanctity ; 

Haemonians find their Corybant ; 
‘Papas’ the Phrygians cry, 


Now dead, now deity ycleped, 
Fruitless and all forlorn, 

A goatherd, or a green ear reaped?, 
A piper almond-born®. 


1 Hesych. ddauvetv* ro pideiv. Kal Ppiyes rov Pidov ’Adduva éyoutw. I suspect 
connexion with the nursery-names “Ada, “Adas, etc. (P. Kretschmer Z7xleitung in die 
Geschichte der Griechischen Sprache Gottingen 1896 p. 337 f.). If so, “Aédauva meant 
*Fatherly One’ (suffix -uv- as in d@éAyuvor, dmddauvos, vevuuvos, etc.)—a doublet of 
“Artis (supra p. 293). A. Fick Die ehemalige Spracheinhett der Indogermanen Europas 
Gottingen 1873 p. 416, misled by P. de Lagarde and F. Miiller, says ‘eranisches Lehnwort.’ 

2 Hippolytos has already compared the crowning rite at Eleusis, the exhibition to the 
mystics of a corn-ear reaped in silence (vef. haeres. 5. 8 p. 162 Duncker—Schneidewin 
héyouoe b€ adbrév, Pyal, Ppiyes Kal *‘xAoepdv ordxuy TEeGepicuévoy,” Kal wera Tods Pp’ryas 
>A@nvaioe wvodvtes “EXevolvia kal émiderxvivtes Tois éromrevouc. TO péya Kal Oavuacroy Kat 
TedevdTarov émomriKoy Exel mYTTHpLoV ev cwwmT7 TEDEpicuévov aTdxuv). This corn-ear probably 
represented Kore, Demeter and her daughter being the Corn-mother and the Corn-maiden 
of the Eleusinian harvest-field (swfrva i. 397 n. 4 pl. xxviii). It is even possible that the 
identification of Kore with the young corn may help to clear up the obscurity which still 
surrounds the name Ilepaedévy. L. Bloch in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1286 ff. and Gruppe 
Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 118t n. 6 collect the extant forms. Gruppe emphasises the following 
points: (a) The first half of the compound, to judge from such vase-inscriptions as 
Ilep(p)6par(r)a (P. Kretschmer Deze Griecheschen Vaseninschriften Giitersloh 1894 pp. 122, 
178), was probably not verbal. If an adverb *zépce be assumed, Ilepaé-pacoa, Mep(p)o- 
gar(r)a, etc. might be related to it as Tydé-uaxos, Tdo-kAjs, etc. to THA. (6) The 
second half of the compound cannot be directly derived from galiyw. But Iepcé-pacoa 
may be formed like TyAé-paooa for TyAe-pdeooa ; in which case IHepoe-pdvy might be a 
hypocoristic name. The crzx, then, is to devise a suitable meaning for *wépoe. And the 
matter is complicated by the Laconian forms II npegéveca (Hesych. s.v.), ‘i ERIDONAI 


(Znuser. Gr. Sic. Zt. no. 631 Lokroi Epizephyrioi). With all diffidence I suggest the root 
of omelpw, omépua, which appears with loss of initial o in mpwé, mepxvds, etc. and with 
determinative s as pars- for *spere-s- in Old Indian pffan, prsat, etc. (see Walde Lat. 
etym. Worterb.2 p. 728f.). On this showing Ilepce- would be cognate with our word 
spring and Iepcépacca, Ieprepévn, could mean ‘She that appears in Spring.’ Cp. Orph. 
h. Phers. 29. 12f. elapw7... | iepov éxpatvovoa déuas Bacrots xNooKdpross. 

Be that as it may, it is clear that in Phrygia Attis was sometimes identified with the 
young corn (Frazer Golden Bough*®: Adonis Attis Osiris? i. 279). Possibly the Phrygian 
Zeus stood in a similar relation to the old corn, for he bore the title roAvoraxus (Hesych. 
Bayaios’...7) Leds Ppiirytos. péyas. mods, raxvs, where W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. Myth. 
ii. 2552 convincingly (O. Hofer 2zé. iii. 1560) restored wéyas wod\voraxus). The Phrygian 
Lityerses, the Bithynian Bormos, etc. were analogous figures: see the highly important 
chapter on ‘ Lityerses’ by Sir James Frazer (Golden Bough*: Spirits of Corn and Wild 
i. 214 ff.). Attis was variously. interpreted by late writers: he is the ripe corn cut by the 
reaper (Firm. Mat. 3), or more often the short-lived flowers of spring contrasted with 
Adonis as the maturer crops (Porph. a. Euseb. praep. ev. 3. 11. 12, 3. 13. 14, and af. 


296 The Mother-goddess and her péredros 


The second fragment runs thus: 


Attis, Rhea’s son, I’ll sing, 
Not with blare of trumpeting, 
Nor with flute Kouretes shrill 
Up the steep of Ide’s hill, 
Nay, but Phoibos’ lyric muse 
I must mingle and confuse, 
Crying still Ewot Eudn, 
For our god’s a very Pan, 
, He’s a Bakchos, he’s a swain 
Shepherding the white stars’ traint. 


Aug. de civ. Dei 7. 25, cp. Sallustius mepi Oedv xal kdouov 4, Amm. Marc. 1g. I. 11, 22. 
g. 15, ‘Sosicles Atticus’ af. Fulgent. myth. 3. 5, Remigius ap. Myth. Vat. 3. 2. 4). 

Some of the multiple corn-ears figured on coins of Bithynia, Kappadokia, Lydia, 
Phrygia, etc. (e.g. Anson Mum. Gr. iii. 124 ff. nos. 1292-1313 pl. 23 f.) may be meant 
for ceremonial sheaves. 

8 Infra Append. B Galatia. 

4 Hippol. ref. haerves. 5.9 pp- 168, 170 Duncker—Schneidewin rovyapotv, pyaiv, émay | 
cuveOav (Wilamowitz cj. cuvéX\Oy or perhaps cuvédAOwor) 0 Sjwos Ev Tots Bedrpos eloiy 
(eicioe cod. C. Wilamowitz cj. elceror) Tis Audtecuévos orodnv €Eaddov, xiOdpay pépwv Kai 
Wdddwv, otrws (Wilamowitz cj. obros) Néyer ddwy Ta meydda wvoThpia ovK eldws & héyer’ 
‘*Hlre Kpdvou yévos, elite Atos udxapos (Bergk cj. wdkap), ere ‘Péas weyddns, xatpe, 70 
katnpes akovowa (G. Hermann cj. dkpicua) ‘Péas, “Arte (Bergk cj."Arrn)* oé Kadodor ev 
“Acavptoe Tpurd0nrov "Adwviv, dn (Roeper cj. KaXet) 6’ Alyumrros “Oorpw, émoupdvioy Mivos 
xépas "EAAnves copiay (Wilamowitz cj.”EAAqvos codia), Dapwobpaxes (Wilamowitz cj. Daud- 
Apaxes) “Adauva (so Bergk for "Adam cod. C.) ceBdomov, Aiudvioe (Aludvioe cod. C. 
Schneidewin cj. Masdmo, Bergk ’Akpuévioc) KoptiBarra, cal oi Ppivyes ddoTE pev Idmayr, 
more dé véxuv, 7) Oedv, 7 dv modvKapros érixTevy autydados avépa cupikTay.” Tolrov yoiv 
elvac <Tov> Tod’Kmoppov “Arriv, dv UuvodvTes Néyouow otrws: ‘*"Arriv buvjow Tov ‘Peins, ov 
Kwddvwv (so Schneidewin for @éi.vGy cod. C.) atv BduBors (so Schneidewin for cvpBbuBas 
cod. C.), ot’ adAGv (Wilamowitz cj. avA@) ’ldaiwy Kovpyjrwy puxnra (so Wilamowitz for 
pixrnra cod. C.), add’ els (so Schneidewin for ofs cod. C.) PorBelav ulEw wotcay popuiyywr, 
evot, eddy (so Schneidewin for eday cod. C.), as dv, ws Baxxevs, ws mouwnv evKov 
dotpwy.” dua Tov’Tous Kai Tovs ToLovTOUs Noyous mapedpevouoiy ovTaL Tots Aeyouevors Myrpds 
meyaAns wvoTnplos, K.T-d. 

These important excerpts have been variously handled: see F. G. Schneidewin 
‘Hymnorum in Attin fragmenta inedita’ in Phdlologus 1848 iii. 247—266, G. Hermann 
in the Ber. sachs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1849 pp. 1—5, F. G. Schneidewin 
in the Nachr. d. kin. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Gottingen Phil.-hist. Classe 1852 p. ror ff., Poet. 
lyr. Gr. iii. 685—687 Bergk4, W. Froehner Wélanges ad’ Epigraphie et d’ Archéologie Paris 
1873 i. 49 ff., U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff in AHermes 1902 xxxvil. 328—331, 
H. Hepding Aftiis seine Mythen und sein Kult Gieszen 1903 pp. 34—36. Schneidewin 
took the first fragment to be written in dactylic and anapaestic measures. Hermann 
completed it as a set of hexameters. Bergk printed it as eight anapaestic lines followed 
by six dactylic tetrameters. Wilamowitz restores it as thirteen dactylic tetrameters, viz. : 
Hire Kpévou -yévos, eire Avds udxap, | ere ‘Péas weyddas, xatp(e) <a> TO ka|rnpes dxoveua 
“Péas “Arte: oé ka\Aovar ev ’Acov’pror Tprddnrov "A\dwriv, dyn & Alyumros”Oorpwy, érlov- 
paviov Mnvos xépas “EX)q|vos copia, Daudbpackes "Adauva ce\Bacuwov, Aiudvioc Kop'Bavta, 
kai | of Bpiyes adore uev Idmav, wore | 5(é) <ad> véxuy 7 Oedv 7 Tov dKaprov 7 | aiméddov 
7] XAoepov araxuy aun\Oevr(a) 7) <T> dv wodUKapmos Erixren a|uvydados avépa cuptKray... 
(I should prefer to spell”Arrns and Ilammas: see P. Kretschmer Zznlettung etc. pp. 350, 
345). Schneidewin, followed by Bergk, prints the second fragment as eight spondaic 


The Mother-goddess and her paredros 297 


Syncretism of this sort can be illustrated by a marble statue of 
Hadrianic date (fig. 189)! found during the winter of 1867—1868 in 
the hall of the Dendrophori? adjoining the Metroion at Ostia*® and 
now preserved in the Lateran Museum at Rome‘. Attis, a youth 








Fig. 189. 


of markedly feminine type, is reclining on a rock, whose hard 
surface is softened by the spread of his mantle. His left arm is 
propped on a bust of Zeus®. His left hand, with a ring on the 
ring-finger, holds a /agobd/on ; his right, a bunch of corn, fruit, and 


lines (two catalectic dimeters, two tripodies, four catalectic dimeters) ; Wilamowitz, as 
ten spondaic lines (a dimeter, a catalectic dimeter, four catalectic monometers, four 
catalectic dimeters), viz. :"Atrw tuyjow rov ‘Peins | od kwidvwr ciu BouBos, | od« adder | 
Ldatav | Koupyrev | wvknras, | add’ els PorBelay wiéw | uodcav populyywr: ebot, | eddy, ws 
Ildv, ws Baxxevs, | ws mouunv Nevxdv dorpwy. (I should again spell the name of “Arrys 
with 7, not @) 

1 C. L. Visconti‘in the Ann. d. Just. 1869 xli. 224 ff., Mon. ad. Znst. ix pl. 84, 2 
(=my fig. 189), A. Rapp in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 727, P. Decharme in Daremberg— 
Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 1688 fig. 2248, F. Cumont in Pauly—Wissowa Keal-Enc. ii. 2251, 
Reinach #ép. Stat. ii. 472 no. 6. The inscription (Corf. izscr. Lat. xiv no. 38, Dessau 
Inscr. Lat. sel. no. 4115) is: Numini Attis C. Cartilius Euplus ex monitu deae. Length 
of marble 1°60™. 

* On the Dendrophori of Italy and the Latin provinces see F. Cumont in Pauly— 
Wissowa eal-Enc. v. 216 ff. and the literature there cited. 

3 C. L. Visconti in the Azz. d. Znst. 1868 xl. 362 ff., Mon. d. Inst. viii pl. 60; zd. in 
the Ann. d. Inst. 1869 xli. 208 ff., Mon. d. Znst. ix pls. 8 and 82. 

4+ W. Helbig Fiihrer durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in 
Rom® Leipzig 1913 ii. 51 f. no. 1236. 

* C. L. Visconti in the Azz. d. Inst. 1869 xli. 235: ‘Giove Ideo’—a plausible 
suggestion. 


298 The Mother-goddess and her paredros 


flowers. His head, twined with a garland of pine-cones, almonds, 
pomegranates, poppy-heads, and flowers, wears a Phrygian cap, 
which is encircled below by five rays (restored in their ancient 
holes) and embellished above by a crescent moon and two up- 
standing ears of corn. The whole figure with its air of pensive 
melancholy, not to say unmanly slackness, aptly embodies the 
Graeco-Roman conception of Attis. Particular traits and adjuncts 
recall other deities. The crescent is that of Men. The hair, with 
its long side-curls and a ribbon across the brow, is reminiscent of 









xf 


/ 


—S 








Dionysos. The attitude of graceful repose would suit Adonis!. And, 
lest the lines should degenerate into weakness, we have a rigid 
framework formed by the bearded bust and the underlying rock— 
a reminder that Attis after all was akin to the great powers of 
nature, Zeus and Kybele, the sky-father and the mountain-mother. 

Zeus, as husband of Kybele?, appears on other monuments of 
the same cult. From the Metroion at Ostia came also a votive 
marble basket (fig. 190)’, the lid of which has a handle shaped like 
a cock in obvious reference to the Ga//us or emasculated priest of 

1 Cp. Theokr. 15. 84 ff., 127 ff. 

2 Toul. ov. 5 p. 166 Af. ris otv 7 Marnp trav bev ;...4 Kal Texodoa Kal cuvoKodca TH 
meyadw Ad Beds brocraca meyddn mera Tov wéyav Kal ody TH meyddw SnuLoupye, Hn Taons 
mev Kupla fwHs, maons dé yevécews airla, 7 pacta méev émiredodoa Ta Toovpeva, yevrvdoa de 
dixa mabous kal Onutovpyotoa Ta OvTa eT TOU TaTpbs: airy Kal mapOévos aunrwp Kal Ards 
ctvOwKos Kal unTnp Gedy ovTws ovca TaYTWY. 

3 C. L, Visconti in the Azz. d. Znst. 1869 xli. 240 ff., Mon. d. Inst. ix pl. 8%, 1%, 1° 
(=my fig. rgo), P. Decharme in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 1688 fig. 2249, Frazer 


The Mother-goddess and her péredros 299 


the goddess. The rest of the lid is covered with corn-ears, which 
fall outwards from the centre: the cock’s tail is formed by some of 
them? and supported by others. On the front of the basket is in- 
scribed ‘M. Modius Maximus, Archigallus of the colony of Ostia?’ 
The latter part of the inscription is grouped about pan-pipes, and 
round it are disposed other tokens of the cult; to the right, a 
lagobélon, a pipe, a flute(?); to the left, a timbrel and a bed of 
reeds’, among which are seen the head of Attis, the head of Zeus, 
the lion of Kybele, etc. This curious 
relic seems to have been a corn- 
measure or modzus dedicated by the 
chief-priest, presumably because his 
own name happened to be Modzus. 
Sir James Frazer supposes that it con- 
tained the priest’s ashes’. But, arguing 
from the analogy of the Cabiric bas-- 
ket®, I should surmise that it was the 
receptacle for the genitals of which, 
in accordance with the Phrygian rite 
(fig. 191)*, the Archigallus had de- were 

prived himself’. Votaries of Kybele, Zeus, and Attis were wont to 
wear effigies of the gods that they served’. A statue brought from 





Golden Bough*: Adonis Attis Osiris? i. 279 (who notes that the ‘urn’ is in the Lateran 
Museum, no. 1046). 

1 Cp. the tail of the Mithraic bull (sera i. 518), which ends in three corn-ears. 

2 Corp. inscr. Lat. xiv no. 385=Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 4162 M. Modius 
Maxximus (szc) | archilgallus | colo|niae | Ostijensis (Dessau reads Ostiens. But see 
fig. 190). 

3H. Dessau Joc. czt. says ‘arbores.’ But C. L. Visconti /oc. cit. and H. Graillot 
Le culte de Cybéle Meére des dieux a Rome et dans l’empire romain Paris 1912 p. 117 n. 2 
rightly connect the reeds with the Cannophori (F. Cumont in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. 
ili, 1484 f.) and their festival known as canna zntrat on March 15 (Wissowa Rel. Kult. 
Rim. p. 321). 

4 Frazer Golden Bough*: Adonis Attis Osiris? i. 279. 

° Supra i. 107 f. See now an interesting article by E. M. W. Tillyard ‘A Cybele altar 
in London’ in the Journ. Rom. Stud. 1917 vii. 284 ff. pl. 8. 

§ Morell. Zhes. Num. Zmp. Rom. ii. 301 pl. 11, 16 (=my fig. 191) a bronze contorniate : 
oby. IMP+ CAES-+ VESPASIAN: AVG: COS-III- Head of Vespasian, laureate, to right; rev. 
A Gallus, nude, castrating himself with a knife before an altar(?), or into a round 
receptacle (??), set on or in the ground: behind him, his Phrygian cap. On the age and 
purpose of such contorniates see Babelon Monn. gr. rom. i. 1. 689 ff., B. Pick in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. iv. 1153—1160, F. Lenormant in Daremberg—Saglio Dzct. Azz. 1 
1485—1488, Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins p. 271 ff. (2d. p. 94). 

7 Cp. the case of Kombabos (supra i. 591 n. 2). H. Graillot of. cet. pp. 134 n. 7, 
179 n. 4 takes the same view, quoting Apul. me¢. 11. 11, Paulin. Nol. 19. 186, poem. 
ult. 79 ff. (Ixi. 525 A and 699 A Migne). 

PvEldt 4:70, bolyb. on. 6. 7, 21-137: 6, Dion. Hal. ant. Rom: 2. 19; cp. Cornut, 
theol. 6 p. 6, 8 f. Lang. 


300 The Mother-goddess and her paredros 


Rome to Paris, and subsequently published by Montfaucon, repre- 
sents a priest wearing on his breast two medallions and an aedicula 
(fig. 192)!: the medallions display two busts of Attis ; the aedzcula has 
Kybele with mural crown and timbrel standing between I[upiter 
(thunderbolt, spear) and Mercurius (caduceus), the gable being occu- 
pied by a reclining figure of Attis (cap, dagobdlon). A relief, found in 
1736 between Civita Lavinia and Genzano and now in the Palazzo dei 














Fig. 192. 


Conservatori at Rome’, shows (fig. 193)* a priest of effeminate aspect 
wearing a long-sleeved chitén and a himdtion drawn like a veil over 
his head. He has ear-rings, fillets, and a necklace. In his right hand 
is a pomegranate and three pomegranate (?)-twigs ; in his left hand 
a shell-shaped bowl of fruit including a fir-cone and almonds. A 
whip of triple lash strung with knuckle-bones hangs over his 
shoulder. And beside him are suspended a pair of cymbals, a tim- 
brel, a pipe, a flute, and a basket or &észe containing his severed 

* Montfaucon Antiquity Explained trans. D. Humphreys London 1721 i. 6f. pl. 3 
no. 9 statue (7zws head and arms) belonging to M. Foucault. My fig. 192 reproduces 
the upper part of the figure only. 

* W. Helbig Fiihrer durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in 
Rom* Leipzig 1912 i. 566 no. 987. 

° G. Winckelmann Monumenti antichi inediti Roma 1821 ii. 7 ff. pl. 8, P. Righetti 
Descrizione del Campidoglio Roma 1833 i. 131 f. pl. 130 (=my fig. 193), Baumeister Dexkm. 


ii. 801 f. fig. 867, Reinach Lép. Reliefs iii. 207 no. 1, H. Graillot Le culte de Cybile Mere 
des dieux & Rome et dans l’empire romain Paris 1912 p. 236 ff. 


The Mother-goddess and her péredros 301 


genitals. Finally, he bears on his breast an aedzcula with a half- 
length figure of Attis, and on his head a bay-wreath of gold (?) 
adorned with three medallions! representing a bust of Zeus between 







































































. Fig. 193. 


two busts of Attis, while both ends of his whip-handle exhibit the 
same bearded head of Zeus. A pendant to this relief is furnished 
by another, formerly in the Villa Mattei and now in the Vatican 
(fig. 194)?, which portrays Laberia Felicla, chief priestess of 


1 A broken diadem in gilt bronze, which came from Rome to Berlin, shows a bay- 
wreath decorated with two medallions (busts of Kybele and Attis) with a rosette between 
them (A. Furtwangler in the Jahrd. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1892 vii Arch. Anz. p. 111). 
On such diadems see supra i. 22, cp. i. 354, and Brit. Mus. Cat. Jewellery p. 364 
NOS. 3044, 3045 pl. 70. 

2 Visconti Mus. Pie-Clém. vii. 107 ff. pl. 18 (=my fig. 194), Baumeister Denhm. ii. 802 
fig. 868, Reinach Rép. Reliefs iii. 410 no. 3, Amelung Sculpt. Vatec. ii. 614 f. no. 403 
pl. 58. Height t*o4™, breadth 0°74™. Fine-grained, light grey marble. Restored: upper 
part of scallop, head and neck, part of left breast, left hand with wreath and parts of 
garland, right lower arm with hand and fatera. 


302 The Mother-goddess and her péredros 


Kybele!. Set against the background of a great scallop-shell, a mzotzf 
appropriate to a Mother-goddess?, we see Laberia pouring a libation, 
not, as we might have expected, to Kybele, but to Zeus. The small 












ome es 
ao 7 





l 
Rs 


| 
(ft 





LTE Pe Eee a 


EAN MMA SSS 





Fig, tee 
altar decorated with a festooned eagle, the garland of bay-leaves* 
hanging from the left hand of the priestess, the bearded head slung 
between her breasts, all proclaim the essential relation of the Mother- 
goddess to the Father-god. 


1 The inscription (Corp. zzscr. Lat. vi no. 2257=Dessau Jnscr. Lat. sel. no. 4160) 
runs: Laberia Felicla | sacerdos maxima | Matris deum m(agnae) I(daeae). 

2 See L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pé. 1870—1871 p. 17 ff., Gruppe Gr. 
Myth. Rel. p. 1349 f., S. Seligmann Der bdse Blick und Verwandtes Berlin 1910 ii. 126 f., 
204 ff., alzb., O. Keller Die antike Tierwelt Leipzig 1913 ii. 560f. The symbolism rests 
on the resemblance of the shell to the womb: the Greeks spoke of the scallop as «vets or 
kréviov (Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. iv. 2028 A—C). 

3 So Amelung Joc. cit. Baumeister loc. cit. says ‘ Eichenzweig,’ Dessau Joc. c7¢. 
‘coronam quernam.’ Apparently a trail of bay-leaves has been wrongly restored as a 
wreath of oak. 


Attis in relation to Christianity 303 


(€) Attis in relation to Christianity. 


The cult of Attis had points of contact with Christianity itself. 
A Father manifesting himself anew in the person of his Son, a Son 
bearing the name of his Father,—such beliefs naturally predisposed 
men to faith in that Son whom the Father sent to be ‘the effulgence 
of his glory, and the very image of his substance.’ Outward cere- 
monies and inward doctrines alike lent themselves to this end. The 
rites of Attis, apart from certain crudities, might almost have passed 
for Christian usage—witness the body of the divine Son affixed to 
the pine-tree’, the lamentation over his prostrate form, the sudden 


1 Hebrews 1. 3. 

° At the festival of the vernal equinox (March 22) known as arbor zntrat (H. Hepding 
Attis seine Mythen und sein Kult Gieszen 1903 p. 149 ff., Frazer Golden Bough*®: Adonis 
Attis Osiris® i. 267 f.). Firmicus Maternus (c. 347 A.D.), who alone mentions the efhgy 
fastened to the tree, already cites parallels (Firm. Mat. 27. 1 f. in sacris Frygiis, quae 
matris deum dicunt, per annos singulos arbor pinea caeditur et in media arbore simulacrum 
iuvenis subligatur. in Isiacis sacris de pinea arbore caeditur truncus, huius trunci media 
pars subtiliter excavatur : illic (so F. Oehler for z//¢s cod. P.) de segminibus (so Wowerius 
for semintbus cod. P.) factum idolum Osiridis sepelitur (cp. Plout. de Zs. e¢ Os. 8, 16, 18, 
21, 42). in Proserpinae sacris caesa arbor in effigiem virginis formamque componitur et cum 
intra civitatem fuerit inlata, quadraginta noctibus plangitur, quadragesima vero nocte 
comburitur). The same method of comparative study has been followed with conspicuous 
success by W. Mannhardt Wa/d- und Feldculte® Berlin 1904 i. 572 f., 1905 ii. 291 ff. and 
by Frazer Golden Bough*®: The Magic Art ii. 59 ff., 26.2: The Dying God p. 251 ff. The 
former regards the tree with its effigy of Attis as a ‘ Verkorperung des vom Tode erwachten 
Wachstumsgeistes’ (of. czt.” ii. 295). The latter says: ‘The bringing in of the pine-tree 
from the woods, decked with violets and woollen bands, is like bringing in the May-tree 
or Summer-tree in modern folk-custom; and the effigy which was attached to the pine- 
tree was only a duplicate representative of the tree-spirit Attis’ (of. c##.3: Adonis Attis 
Osiris? i. 277). 

I confess, I do not agree with these conclusions. So far as I can judge the evidence 
available, at least in the classical area, the tree-spirit was essentially female, being but a 
vegetable form of the earth-mother (swfva i. 1 n. 3, 339, 306 f., 525 f., 779 f.). Her 
consort was male, being originally an embodiment or representative of the sky-father. 
The May-queen in popular custom stands for the fertilised vegetation-power, the May-king 
for her fertilising partner: their union ensures the fertility of the whole neighbourhood. 
On this showing (to get back to Attis) the manin the tree was not conceived as ‘a dupli- 
cate representative of the tree-spirit,’ but as in some sense (husband? victim? both ?) 
devoted to the tree—the male to the female—for the purpose of promoting fertility. Attis, 
like Pentheus (on whom see an illuminating article by my friend the Rev. A. G. Bather 
‘The problem of the Bacchae’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1894 xiv. 244—263, Farnell 
Cults of Gk. States v. 167 £., Frazer Golden Bough*: Adonis Attis Osiris? ii. 98, 2.°: 
Spirits of Corn and Wild i. 24 f., supra i. 679), whose name— Prof. H. M. Chadwick 
suggests to me—may hang together with that of the Thracian Bendis (cp. the Thracian 
Penthesileia, if not also the Lesbian Penthilos, etc.), was a divine king (Ioul. or. 5. 168c 
rod Bacthéws” Arribos, 169 c 6 Baoideds "Arris, Laser. Gr. Sic. /t. no. 913, 3 f. Ostia ["Arret] | 
Myvoru[pavy], Corp. inscr. Lat. vi nos. 499, 3 f. Attidi | Menotyranno invicto, 500, 2 f: 
Attidi Meno|tyranno, sor, 2 f. Attidi sancto | Menotyranno, 508. 1 f. [At]|ti Menotyranno, 
311, 1 Attidi Menoturano, ro Attidis Minoturani, 512, 1 [Attidi Menotyranno]) and, as 
Sir James Frazer has shown (Golden Bough*: Adonis Attis Osiris? i. 285 ff.), presupposes 
a line of priestly kings once sacrificed at periodic intervals for the good of the community. 


304 


Attis in relation to Christianity 





_— ee 


Attis in relation to Christianity = 305 


I add a northern parallel to the Christianisation of the Phrygian tree-cult. The Gos- 
forth Cross (C. A. Parker Zhe Ancient Crosses at Gosforth, Cumberland London 1896 with 
pls. and figs. of which pl. r=my fig. 195 and pl. 2 my fig. 196, zd. The Gosforth District: 
its Antiquities and Places of Interest Kendal 1904 pp. 802—g2 with figs.) is a red sandstone 
_ monolith (144 ft high) still standing S. of the church at Gosforth in Cumberland. A fellow- 
cross of much the same design formerly stood some 7 ft away, but was cut down in 1789 
to serve as a sun-dial. Between the two crosses was a horizontal stone, on which was 
carved the figure of alarge sword. The extant shaft, which rises from a rectangular three- 
stepped base, is circular in section below (40 ins round) but oblong above (6 x 5 ins) and 
supports a wheel-shaped head (20 ins across). The whole monument is carved to look 
like a tree: the bole is patterned as if half-covered with bark, and the interlaced lines 
higher up are suggestive of branches. All four sides, where the trunk has been, so to say, 
squared, exhibit carvings susceptible of a twofold interpretation, either Scandinavian or 
Christian. G. Stephens dated them c. 680 A.D. ; but S. Bugge 
assigned them to s. ix A.D., and C. A. Parker now places them 
as late as c. g50—1050 A.D. The subjects represented run, 
from bottom to top, as follows: (a) Western serves. Loki bound 
beneath snake, whose venom drips upon him: Sigyn, his wife, 
catches venom in cup=Satan bound. Odhin on his horse 
Sleipnir rides down to Mimir’s well at one of the roots of 
Ygegdrasil : Heimdallr the sentinel with the Gjallarhorn keeps 
back the wolf-serpents Hati and Skgll=Death on the pale 
horse overcome by Christ the shepherd, who defies the powers 
of evil. A wolf-headed monster, the progeny of the wolf 
Fenrir, attacking the solar wheel=A devil attacking the 
cross. (4) Southern series. Odhin riding through the hall 
of serpents on Nastrand=Cbrist trampling on Satan. The 
wolf Fenrir and the Midhgardh-serpent attacking the hart 
Eikthyrnir= The powers of evil attacking the hart, symbol 
of Christ. Fenrir as a wolf-headed monster gagged by Thor’s 
sword = Leviathan tamed. Serpent attacking the solar 
wheel=Devil attacking the cross. (c) Eastern series. Ser- 
pents beneath the feet of Nanna, the faithful wife of Baldr : 
blind Hgdhr with a lance of mistletoe stabs Baldr, son of 
Odhin = The serpent’s head bruised by the heel of the 
woman, Mary Magdalene with her a/déastron : Longinus the 
blind soldier with his lance stabs Christ on the cross. Head- 7 
less monster= Evil subdued. Vidharr, son of Odhin, slays Fig. 196. 
the wolf-serpent Fenrir, whose jaw he rends open with left arm and right foot = The descent 
of Christ into hell. Fenrirattacking the solar wheel = Devil attacking the cross. (¢) Northern 
series. Endless interlacing =Symbol of eternity. Odhin on Sleipnir overcome by Fenrir 
at the end of the world= Death on the pale horse overcome by Christ. Odhin battling with 
the fire-demon Surtr=Christ as conqueror: Satan cast down from heaven. The solar 
wheel=the cross. Several of these bilingual interpretations are far from certain. Here it is 
in point to notice an alternative explanation of the central scene on the eastern face. 
C. A. Parker comments: ‘ Baldur the beautiful, or, Odin hanging on the tree self sacri- 
ficed.’ The latter view, that of the Rev. W. S. Calverley, is based on Hévamdl 138 f., 
a remarkable passage translated by H. M. Chadwick Zhe Cult of Othin London 1899 
p- 72 thus: ‘138. ‘I know that I hung full nine nights on the gallows tree (or ‘‘ windy 
tree’) wounded by the javelin and given to Othin, myself to myself; on that tree, of 
which no one knows from whose roots it proceeds.” 139. ‘‘They cheered me (or 
“ assuaged my hunger and thirst”) neither with bread nor drink ; I looked down and took 
up runes, took them up crying; frem thence I fell again.”’ Prof. Chadwick 72d. p. 80 
notes: ‘ Othin is both the person sacrificed and the person to whom the sacrifice is offered. 
There is no indication that Othin was also the sacrificer or that the sacrifice was voluntary 


Cail, 





20 


306 ~=— Attis in relation to Christianity 


blaze of light, the words of comfort whispered by the priest : 


Courage, ye mystics of the god now saved ; 
Salvation shall be ours from all our woes?! 


No less suggestive was the teaching connected with the sauroboliums 
and criobolium®. In all the Zeus-cults of the Mediterranean world 
the bull and the ram play their part as centres of procreative power’. 
And by this dread baptism in their blood and reception of their 
vital forces‘ the worshipper (I quote a Roman altar of the fourth 
century) was ‘reborn to life eternal®.’ The devotee of Attis belonged 


on the part of the victim.’ But, if those Eddic stanzas represent a genuine Norse belief, 
the sacrifice of Odhin to Odhin on the gallows tree might well be taken as the nearest 
pagan parallel to the crucifixion of Christ. 

1 Firm. Mat. 22. 1 nocte quadam simulacrum in lectica supinum ponitur et per 
numeros digestis fletibus plangitur : deinde cum se ficta lamentatione satiaverint, lumen 
infertur ; tunc a sacerdote omnium qui flebant fauces unguentur, quibus perunctis sacerdos 
hoc lento murmure susurrat: Oappe?re piorar Tod Bed ceawopuevou: | éorar yap huiv ex 
movwv owrnpla. That the allusion is to the rites of Attis appears from Firm. Mat. 3. 1 ff., 
cp. Damaskios v. /szd. ap. Phot. 626/. p. 345 a 5 ff. Bekker rore 77 ‘Iepamdder é-yxabev- 
dnoas €ddxouy bvap 6” ATrns yevéoOat, Kal woe EriTeeloOat Tapa TAS uNnTpos TOV Gedy Thy TGV 
‘Thapiwy Kadoumévwr éoprjyv: dep €dndou Thy €& Gdov yeyovviay judy owrnplav. 

2 Suprai. 717 n. 2, H. Graillot Le czlte de Cybele Mere des dieux a Rome et dans ’em- 
pire romain Paris 1912 p. 153 ff., Frazer Golden Bough*: Adonis Attis Osiris® i. 274 ff. 

3 Supra i. 428 ff., 633 ff., 716 ff., 779. 

4 Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rom.* p. 325: ‘eine besondere, nicht vollig aufgeklarte Rolle 
spielen beim Opfer die Hoden (wz7es) des Stieres’ citing Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 510, 
3 ff. = Dessau Zuscr. Lat. sel. no. 4127, 3 ff. (Lactora in Aquitania) vires esce|pit Eutyche|tis, 
xiii no. 1751, 10 ff.= Dessau no. 4131, 10 ff. (Lugdunum) vires excepit et a Vaticano 
trans|tulit, ara et bucranium | suo inpendio consacravit, xiii no. 522, 3 ff. (Lactora) vires 
tauri, | quo propri(e) | per tauropojlium pub(lice) fac|tum fecerat, | consacravit, xiii no. 
525, 3 ff. = Dessau no. 4129, 3 ff. (Lactora) vires tauri, | quo proprie | per tauropojlium 
pub(lice) fact(um) | fecerat, consacravit, xii no. 1567, 20 f. = Dessau no. 4140, 20 f. (Dea 
Augusta Vocontiorum) loco vires con|ditae. H. Graillot of. czt. p. 155 n. 6 adds Zphen. 
epigr. 1899 vill. 118 no. 455 (Liternum) sacerdos | [M]atris deum | [? At]hamas condidit 
(sc. vires) and Corp. inscr. Lat. vno. 6961 f.= Dessau no. 4158 f. (Taurini) viribus | Aeterni | 
taurobolio | Sempronia | Eutocia and viri[b]us | Aeterni | taurobolio | P. Ulattius | 
Priscus. So Corp. inser. Lat. xiii no. 573 = Dessau no. 4157 (altar at Burdigala with ram’s 
head on one side, Adve and Phrygian cap on other side) natalici virib(us) | Valer(ia) 
Iullina | et Iul(ia) Sancta. Elsewhere the Vires are personified and associated with a 
variety of water-divinities, v7z. Neptunus (Corp. znscr. Lat. v no. 4285 = Dessau no. 3291), 
Lymphae (Corp. zuscr. Lat. v no. 5648= Dessau no. 3871), Nymphae (Cor. znscr. Lat. xi 
no. 1162=Dessau no. 3870), Fons and (Aqua) Ventina (Corp. zuscr. Lat. ix no. 3351 
= Dessau no. 5781), Deus Magnus Pantheus (Corp. tuscr. Lat. v no. 5798=Dessau 
no. 3997), or worshipped on their own account (Corp. zmscr. Lat. v nos. 1964, 8247, 
8248). Their cult apparently implies the belief that running water is the seminal fluid of 
a deity. See further H. Hepding AZtzs seine Mythen und setn Kult Gieszen 1903 p. 191 f. 
and safpra i. 882 Index ii s.v. ‘ Testicles.’ 

5 Corp. inscr. Lat. vi no. 510=Orelli LZuscr. Lat. sel. no. 2352=Wilmanns Lx. znscr. 
Lat. no. 110= Dessau L/uscr. Lat. sel. no. 4152 a marble altar decorated with reliefs (on 
right side, a pine-tree, from which hang flutes and Phrygian cap, with aram; on left side, 
a pine-tree, from which hang timbrel and pipe, with a bull; on back, torches, patera, and 
vessels) and inscribed: Dis | magnis | Matri deum et Attidi Se|xtilius Agesilaus Aedesius | 


Attis in relation to the Dioskouroi 307 


to the flock of a divine ‘Shepherd!, and it needed no great stretch 
of imagination for him to declare: 


et ipse Pileatus Christianus est. 
‘He of the Phrygian Cap is a Christian too?’ 


(n) Attis in relation to the Dioskouroi. 
The name P2/eatus* recalls the pé/oz or ‘caps’ of the Dioskouroi* 


v(ir) c(larissimus), causarum non ignobillis Africani tribunalis ora|tor et in consistorio | 
principum, item magiste'r libellor(um) et cognition(um) | sacrarum, magister epistu|lar(um), 
magister memoriae, | vicarius praefector(um) per | Hispanias vice s(acra) c(ognoscens), 
pajter patrum dei Solis invijcti Mithrae, hierofanta | Hecatar(um), dei Liberi archi|bucolus, 
taurobolio | crioboliog(ue) in aeterjmum renatus aram sacra|vit dd(ominis) nn(ostris) 
Valenite V et Valentiniano | iun(iore) Augg(ustis) conss(ulibus) idib(us) Augustis (= Aug. 13, 
376 A.D.). 

1 Attis was motunjy (schol. Nik. a/ex. 8, Loukian. amor. 42), pastor (Tertull. apol. 15, 
ad nat. 1. 10, Paulin. Nol. poem. ult. 79 ff. (Ixi. 699 A Migne), Aegritudo Perdicae 29 f. (in 
Poet. Lat. min. v. 113 Baehrens)), aizé\os (Hippol. ref. haeres. 5. 9 p. 168 Duncker— 
Schneidewin), Bouvxddos (Theokr. 20. 40), dzbelcus (Arnob. adv. nat. 4. 35). 

Cp. the formula “aénr7s o.mévos ayvov, which occurs in the epitaph of Alexandros son 
of Antonios (216 A.D.) found by Sir W. M. Ramsay at the Phrygian Hierapolis and in its 
original the epitaph written for himself by Aberkios bishop of Hierapolis (end of s. ii), 
included in his biography by Simeon Metaphrastes (cxy. 1211 ff. Migne), found in a 
fragmentary condition by Sir W. M. Ramsay at Hierapolis, presented by the Sultan to 
Pope Leo xiii, and now preserved in the Lateran Museum at Rome. On both inscriptions 
see Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1882 iii. 339 ff., 1883 iv. 424 ff. no. 36 
(cp. Bull. Corr. Hell. 1882 vi. 518 f.), J. B. Lightfoot Zhe Apostolic Fathers Part 11 
London 1889 i. 493 ff., G. Ficker ‘ Der heidnische Charakter der Abercius Inschrift’ in 
the Sitzungsber. d. Akad. d. Wiss. Berlin 1894 p. 87 ff., A. Harnack in 7exte und Unter- 
suchungen 1895 xii. 4, L. Duchesne in the Aélanges d’Archéologie et ad’ Histoire 1895 
xv. 155 ff., A. Dieterich Die Grabschrift des Aberkios Leipzig 1896, S. Reinach in the 
Revue critique ad’ Histotre et de Littérature 1896 xlii. 447 ff., W. Drexler in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. ii. 2880—2882, H. Hepding AZtis seine Mythen und sein Kult Gieszen 1903 
pp- 83—85, W. R. Paton ‘Note on the Inscription of Abercius’ in the Rev. Arch. 1906 
ii. 93 ff., W. Liidtke—T. Nissen Die Grabschrift des Aberkios, ihre Uberlieferung und thr 
Text Lipsiae rg10, T. Nissen S. Aderctz vita Lipsiae 1912, C. M. Kaufmann Handbuch 
der christlichen Archdologte Paderborn 1913 pp. 717—725. As A. Dieterich K7Zeine 
Schriften Leipzig and Berlin 1911 p. 538 observes, ‘bei Aberkios hat man streiten 
konnen, ob er Attisdiener oder Christ war.’ The former view is held by Ficker, Harnack, 
Dieterich, Hepding; the latter, by Duchesne, Paton, and Kaufmann. 

* Aug. i Jo. ev. tract. 7. 1. 6 (xxxv. 1440 Migne) quia iam non possunt seducere 
Christianos, ut dent venenum, addunt mellis aliquid, ut per id quod dulce est, lateat quod 
amarum est, et bibatur ad perniciem; usque adeo ut ego noverim aliquo tempore illius 
Pileati sacerdotem solere dicere: ‘et ipse Pileatus Christianus est.’ The history of the 
Ophites (F. Legge Horerunners and Rivals of Christianity Cambridge 1915 ii. 25 ff.) 
shows how easy it was for Phrygian Christianity to be gravely contaminated with Phrygian 
paganism (cp. T. Eisele ‘ Die phrygischen Kulte und ihre Bedeutung fiir die griechisch- 
romische Welt’ in the Meuwe Jahrb. f. klass. Altertum 1909 xxiii. 620 ff.). Synesios in a 
hymn that betrays Ophitic influence addresses God as at once Father and Son of Himself 
(2. 3. 145 ff. marépwv mdvrwy | rdrep, adrordrwp, | mpordrwp, amdrwp, | vié ceavTod) ; 
and Synesios shortly afterwards became a bishop of the orthodox church. 

3 A small head of white marble in my possession (figs. 197, 198: height 53 ins.) gives 
a good idea of the formosus adulescens (Lact. div. inst. 1. 17, efit. 8. 6) wearing his pileawm. 

4 Supra i. 250 fig. 180, 763 n. 4, 765 ff. fig. 554 ff. 


20—2 


308 Attis in relation to the Dioskouroi 


and raises the question: In what relation did the Phrygian Attis 
stand to the Hellenic Kastor and Polydeukes? Was he too in any 
sense atwin? There is something to be said for the view that he was. 

Years ago Haakh pointed out that Roman tombstones from 





Fig. 197. 


districts drained by the Rhine or the Danube not infrequently 
duplicate the person of Attis (eg. fig. 199), and argued that such 
monuments go to prove the existence of a Phrygian pair resembling 
the better known Hellenic and Italian twins. This argument, 


1 Haakh ‘die Attisbilder auf romischen Grabdenkmilern’ in the Verh. d. 60. Philo- 
logenversamml. in Stuttgart Stuttgart 1857 pp. 176—186 citing: (1) and (2) Two 
tombstones found at Rottenburg (K. L. von Urlichs in the Jahré. d. Vereins v. Alter- 
thumsfreund. im Rheinl. 1856 xxiii. 49 ff. pls. 1, 2, Haakh Joc. cet. p. 177 with figs.) ; 
(3) A tombstone found near Bonn (K. L. von Urlichs Joc. cét. 1846 ix. 146 ff. pl. 6, 
1856 xxill. 49, Haakh Joc. ctt. p. 180); (4) A tombstone at Coblenz, on which each 
Attis has above his head a pair of double axes and an Amazonian shield, below his feet 
vegetation of some sort (L. Lersch Centralmuseum rheinlindischer Inschriften Bonn 1842 
iil. 63, Haakh Joc. czt. p. 181 f. with fig.) ; (5) A tombstone in the castle of Enseck, which 
shows two Lares in the guise of Attis with Phrygian cap and Zedum flanking a dog and a 


Attis in relation to the Dioskouroi 309 


however, is of doubtful value. F. Cumont! assumes confusion with 
Cautes and Cautopates*. We have also to reckon with the funerary 
type of the pensive, torch-bearing Eros common enough in the 





Fig. 198. 


Graeco-Roman age*. Moreover, Attis, as a god reborn, would be a 
favourite emblem of resurrection and, like Nike in a different setting, 
peculiarly liable to decorative multiplication. But Haakh has more 
to urge in support of his Phrygian twins: he appeals to literary as 


bay-tree (Bettrige zur Landeskunde fiir Oesterreich ob der Enns und Salzburg Linz 1846 v 
pl. 3, no. 4, Haakh /oc. cit. p. 184 f, with fig.). To these should be added : (6) A tomb- 
stone from Andernach, on which each Attis has above his head an Amazonian shield 
(J. Klein in the Bonner Jahrbiicher 1884 \xxvii. 14—37 pl. 1=my fig. 199, Reinach Fé. 
Reliefs ii. 54 no. 1, Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 7684); (7) A tombstone from Bingerbriick, 
now at Kreuznach (Reinach Rép. Reliefs ii. 66 no. 1, Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 7507). 
Doubtless other examples could be collected. 

1 F. Cumont in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 2251. 

2 Supra i. 516 n. 1. 

* A. Furtwangler in Roscher Zex. A/yth. i. 1369 f., O. Waser in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. vi. 508 f., txfra Append. G sub fin. 


310 Attis in relation to the Dioskouroi 


well as to monumental evidence. According to Polybios, Cn. Man- 
lius, when encamped in 189 B.C. on the bank of the river Sangarios, 
‘was visited by Galloi from Attis and Battakes, priests of the 
Mother of the gods at Pessinous’’ The historian’s description sug- 
gests a double priesthood. The jingling names? would suit the 
priests of twin deities. And both names were traditional. ‘ Attis 
the priest, who carried on a correspondence with Eumenes ii in 





Fig. 199. 


LSPOlyb.. 20-937..15: 


> Cp. the ’ArraBoxaoi or mystics of the goddess at Pessinous (Dittenberger Ovienz. 
Gr. inscr. sel. NOS. 540, 20 and 541, 7). 


Attis in relation to the Dioskouroi 311 


163 B.C. and with Attalos ii before and after his accession in - 
159 B.C,!, may have been the same Pessinuntine hierarch: he evinces 
the same anti-Galatian ideas*. Another ‘ Attis the priest, one out 
of ten, who are distinguished from the chief priest, is recorded in 
an inscription from Pessinous of early imperial date*. And as to 
Battakes, Diodoros states that in 102 B.C. ‘a certain man named 
Battakes, priest of the great Mother of the gods, came from Pessinous 
in Phrygia’ to Rome demanding expiation for the defilement of 
her temple’. Plutarch puts it differently: Battakes came ‘with a 
message that the goddess from the temple (avxdéktora) had announced 
to him the triumphant victory of the Romans’ over the Teutones’. 
Haakh contends that Plutarch’s axdéktora is again suggestive of a 
twin cult, since the Dioskouroi were Avakies*’. But the word andk- 
toren is of much wider application, and no stress can be laid on 
the use of the plural axdéktora’. Nor is Haakh’s contention much 
strengthened by the Herodotean tale of Adrastos and Atys*. The 
former was son of the Phrygian king Gordios iv; the latter, son of 
the Lydian king Kroisos—unpromising material for a myth con 
cerning twins, even if it be conceded that the episode had no his- 
torical foundation®. There remains the old Lydian pedigree, which 
represented Atys and Kotys as sons of Manes”. Manes, the fore- 


1 Michel Recuedl a’Znscr. gr. no. 45, Dittenberger Orient. Gr. inscr. sel. no. 315. 

* E. Thraemer in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Ence. iii. 146. 

3 A. Koerte in the Ath. Mitth. 1900 xxv. 437 ff. no. 63=Dittenberger Orient. Gr. 
inser. sel. nO. 541 TrBéprov KXavdvov "Arrew lepéa | ‘Hpad vidv Kupeiva Anidrapoy, éva\rov 
wera Tov apxtepéa, TéTap|rov dé T'adaray, x.7T.X. 

4 Diod. 36. 6 (p. 65 Dindorf), 5 Plout. v. Mar. 17. 

8 Supra i. 107 n. 7. 7 Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. i. 2. 423 B ff. 

S Adrestos, son of Gordies son of Mides, having unintentionally slain his brother, was 
driven out by his father and took refuge with Kroisos, who purified him and received him 
kindly at his court. Some time afterwards Mysia was devastated by a monstrous boar 
from the Mysian Mt Olympos. Atys, son of Kroisos, was eager to join the chase. His 
father, having dreamt that Atys would perish by means of an iron spear, at first would 
not let him go, but later sent Adrestos as his guardian. Adrestos, aiming with his javelin, 
missed the boar and slew Atys. Kroisos in deep distress invoked Zeus Ka@dpovos and ’Er- 
istvos and ‘Eraipyios, but, regarding the accident as the fulfilment of his dream, pardoned 
Adrestos. Thereupon Adrestos killed himself on the tomb of Atys (Hdt. 1. 35—45). 

® H. Stein on Hdt. 1. 43, W. W. How and J. Wells on Hat. 1. 34, E. Meyer in 
Pauly—Wissowa feal-Enc. ii. 2262, Frazer Golden Bough*: Adonis Attis Osiris* i. 286 
view the Atys-tale as a doublet of the Attis-myth. 

10 E. Meyer in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 2262 educes from Hat. 1. 7, 1. 94, 4. 455 
7- 74 the following stemma : 

Manes 


—"_'_—“— 
Atys Kotys 
oe | 
Lydos Tyrsenos Asies 
For later variants see Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 1. 27 f., schol. Plat. Zim. 25 B, Steph. Byz. 
s.uv. ’Axpovla, Aolayros mredlov, Mavjocov. 


312 Attis in relation to the Dioskouroi 


. father of the Lydians, was recognised also by the Phrygians'. He 
seems to have been called Masnes by the logographer Xanthos?, a 
Lydian who wrote four books on Lydia in the reign of Artaxerxes i 
(465—425 B.C.)*. Manes later passed as the son of Zeus and Ge‘. 
Indeed, an inscription discovered at Oturak by Sir W. M. Ramsay 
actually identifies him with Zeus*’. Atys and Kotys may, therefore, 
have been regarded as Dzéskourot, sons of Zeus ; and the assonance 
of their names is, as Dr Rendel Harris has abundantly shown’, 
characteristic of divine twins. Nevertheless the whole case is com- 


1 P. Hirsch Phrygiae de nominibus oppidorum Regimontii Borussiae 1884 p. 29, 
Perrot—Chipiez fst. de Art v. 31 n. 2, W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 
2316. 

? Xanthos (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 629 Miiller) af. Hephaist. ech. 1. 7 p. 6, 1 Consbruch 
and af. Choirobosk. 27 Hephaist. evch. 1. 7 p. 199, 5 Consbruch had Mdovns as the 
name of a Lydian river. In Dion. Hal. azt. Rom. 1. 27 cod. Vat. spells the king’s name 
Maovew; and this may be right, since Dionysios 2d. 1. 28 goes on to quote Xanthos 
SJrag. \ (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 36 Miiller). 

3 W. Christ Geschichte der griechischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1908 i. 428 f. 

4 Dion. Hal. azt. Rom. 1. 27. 

5 Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1883 iv. 419 ff. no. 33 6 [a]@dvaros 
’Emirbvxal[vJos Ilov timnO(e)is bao ‘“Exd|rns mparns, devre[p]iov bd Mavou Adov | ['H]Aco- 
Spduov Ards, rp tov PoiBou ’“Apxnyérolv] | Xpyopuoddrov a|\nOds 6@\[plov édaB\[o]v xpno|[uJo- 
déri|\y adnl[Oe}las év | warpt\d. xé (é)v d|[plors xp\[y]ouod|érw | vouous 71A(e)tv (perhaps 
th(e)w) év dpos | [x]pnopoddriy | [r]acw rotro éxw d&|[plov €& dBavd|rwv mdyTwy: K.T.). 
an inscription of 313—314A.D. from the neighbourhood of Akmoneia accompanied by 
a series of three reliefs—above, a radiate head; in the middle, the rider-god with a 
battle-axe over his shoulder (much defaced); below, a bust with hands folded across 
breast. The altar- adorned with these carvings commemorates several members of 
one family, two at least of whom held office as dpxepev’s in some pagan cult. The god 
Manes Daes (or Daos) Heliodromos Zeus is of mixed origin. Manes was father of Akmon, 
founder of Akinoneia (Alexandros Polyhistor frag. 45 (frag. hist. Gr. ill. 233) ap. Steph. 
Byz. s.v.’Axuovia). Daes (or Daos) might be the singular of the Scythian tribe Ada, 
Ada, Ado, Dahae (W. Tomaschek in Pauly—Wissowa Leal-Enc. iv. 1945 f.) ; Daos, the 
singular of the nomad Persians called Ado. by Hdt. 1. 125 (éd. 2b. iv. 2133): other 
possibilities would be to see in Daes the masculine deity corresponding with the femi- 
nine Daeira (supra i. 212), or to quote Hesych. ddos: pis, dada. mop, PrOE, péyyos, 
avyn. Kal tad Ppuvyav Nvxos. Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. Rom. Stud. 1918 vu. 145 
and in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1920 xl. 197, 202 adopts the last expedient, takes Ados to 
mean ‘the Wolf,’ and cp. Lyk(déas?) Sézon on a gzast-autonomous copper of Themisonion 
in Phrygia (Imhoof-Blumer A7eznas. Miinz. i. 299 no. 1, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia 
pp: civ, 419 pl. 49, 2 067. AVK* CCLZCLN Bust of the god, radiate). I prefer to regard 
Ados as a Persian ethnic, because ‘HXvodpdmos is in obvious allusion to the Mithraic 
“Hycodpduo (A. Dieterich Zine Mithrasliturgie? Leipzig und Berlin 1910 p. 151)—indeed, 
the titles Ados ‘H\codpéuos Zeds would tally with the grades Perses, Heliodromus, Pater 
(supra i. 443 n. 1). Cp. also Hesych. Mydweds, undeds rapayndorioby. Mydardds. mapa 
dé Avdots 6 Debs fetors (cod.), which M. Schmidt prints as Mydweds: Mydevs, mapa 
[undorioby. pndamNa@s.| mapa dé Avdois o Leds [fedars]. P. Carolidis Bemerkungen zu den 
alten kleinasiatischen Sprachen und Mythen Strassburg 1913 p. 88 connects (unconvinc- 
ingly) Myndevs, Mndiweds with Midas. 

§ J. Rendel Harris Zhe Dioscuri in the Christian Legends London 1903 pp. 1 f., 52f., 
td. The Cult of the Heavenly Twins Cambridge 1906 p. 58 ff. 


The Kabeiroi or Megdloi Theot 3.13 


paratively weak, and, sooner than insist upon it, I would push 
enquiry in a somewhat different direction. 

Whether the Phrygians had in early days a twin-cult corre- 
sponding with that of the Vdésatza mentioned in the prehistoric 
(s. xiv B.C.) records of Boghaz-Keui!, we can hardly hope to deter- 
mine. The appearance of the Dioskouroi or their attributes on 
coins of Aizanoi®, Akmoneia’, Apameia‘, Bria®, Synnada‘*, Temeno- 
thyrai’, and Themisonion (?)§ is late and of no great significance. 
I would rather lay stress on the fact that in the Thraco-Phrygian 
area the Father and the Son, being diverse manifestations of the 
same god, formed, not indeed divine twins, but at least a divine pair 
likely to influence or be influenced by any adjacent cult of twins. 


(0) The Kabeiroi or Megdloi Theoi. 


The situation is complicated by the variety of names under 
which the Thraco-Phrygian Father and Son won their way to 
general recognition. Of Dzos and Déos Nfsos®, of Pdpas and Adtis”, 
we have already spoken. If we termed the former pair Thracian 
and the latter Phrygian, that was merely in order to give a rough 
indication of their range without implying that they were ultimately 
of diverse origin. And here we must add that the Samothracian 
Kabeiroi were originally of kindred stock. In common with R. Pet- 
tazzoni™, L. R. Farnell”, and Miss Harrison” I hold that these mys- 


1 Supra i. 190 n. 3, 741 n. 4, H. R. Hall in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1909 xxix. 21, 
td. The Ancient History of the Near East London 1913 p. 201, J. H. Moulton £arly 
Zoroastrianism London 1913 pp. 6, 115, 139, E. Meyer Retch wnd Kultur der Chetiter 
Berlin 1914 p. 58. 

* Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 39 pl. 6, 2 (Dioskouroi standing), cp. 2d. p. xxiv 
pl. 26, 1 and 4 (horse bearing cap surmounted by star, etc.), Head Hest. nm.” p. 664. 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 7 no. 21 (Dioskouroi standing). 

+ Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 74 pl. 10, 1—5 (caps surmounted by stars, in 
bay-wreath: eagle surmounted by star, flying over maeander-pattern flanked by caps 
with stars), Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 478 pl. 56, 13, Head Hist. num.” p. 666. 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. tog pl. 13, 9 (Dioskouroi standing with horses), 
Head Hist. num." p. 668. 

8 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 393 pl. 46, 2 (caps surmounted by stars ; between 
them, poppy-head and ear of corn), Imhoof-Blumer A7Veizas. Miinzen i. 292 no. 5, Head 
Hist. num.” p. 686. 

7 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 410 no. 14 (Dioskouroi standing). 

8 Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 495 pl. 57, 9 (Herakles and Hermes standing; behind 
Herakles, one of the Dioskouroi standing with his horse). B. V. Head in Avzt, Mus. 
Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 420 pl. 49, 5 and Hist. num.” p. 687 would recognise in the third 
figure Lykabas Sozon (?)—a precarious guess. 

9 Supra p. 277 ff. 

10 Supra p. 292 ff. 

4. Pettazzoni ‘ Le origini dei Kabiri nelle isole del mar tracio’ in the Memorie della 
R. Accademia det Lincez. Classe di Scienze Morali, Storiche e Filologiche. Serie Quinta. 
Roma 1909 xii. 635—740 argues for a threefold stratification of the Cabiric cult. (r) In 


314 The Kabeiroi or Megaloi T heot 


_ terious powers were Thracian deities called Kdbezroz by Phoenician 
traders and Megdlot Theot by Hellenic settlers. I further agree 
with Miss Harrison’s acute surmise that their triad included ‘one 
woman the Mother, two males, the Father and the Son—older 
and younger forms of each other!’ I take it that Axiokersa was 
the Mother, Axiokersos the Father, and Axieros the son? conceived 
as a rebirth of the Father. The names bear witness to the vitality 
of the very ancient axe-cult in the northern islands of the Aegean’®. 
Axiokérsa appears to mean ‘She that is cleft with the Axe, A«zd- 


prehistoric times the worship of Dionysos-Sabazios with his Satyrs and of Bendis- 
Hekate with her Maenads spread from Thrace to the neighbouring islands Thasos, Samo- 
thrace, Imbros, Lemnos. These two Thracian deities with their respective mpézoNot 
formed the indigenous element of the cult in question. (2) Phoenician merchants brought 
to some of the Thracian islands their own Aadezro7d or ‘ Great Ones,’ seven gods serving an 
eighth named Esmun (Philon Bybl. frag. 2. 27 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 569 Miiller) af. Euseb. 
pracp. ev. I. 10. 38, Damaskios v. Jséd. ap. Phot. 626/. p. 352b 11 ff. Bekker). The 
islanders identified ESmun with the Thracian Dionysos-Sabazios and the Adéezvo¢ with 
his mpémodo. Hence Dionysos-Sabazios acquired the Phoenician title of Esmun 
Kadmilos, and Bendis-Hekate came to be called Kadezré. (3) Hellenic settlers came to 
Samothrace with the Eleusinian cult of Demeter, Kore, Hades. This trio was installed 
beside Kadmilos, the resultant quartette being henceforward called by the Phoenician name 
Kabeiroz or its Greek equivalent Megélot Theot. Finally, the name Addeirot degenerated 
into an appellation of the mpézroNo. 

12 L. R. Farnell ‘Kabeiroi’ in J. Hastings Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics 
Edinburgh 1914 vii. 628—632 independently of Pettazzoni suggests the following sequence 
of events: ‘ Phcenician traders may have found an aboriginal mystery-cult in this remote 
and inaccessible island [Samothrace]; they may have attached their own descriptive title 
‘* Kabeirim,” ‘‘the mighty ones,” to the divinities that they found in the island, because 
this corresponded to some local divine appellative that the later Greeks translated by the 
phrase oi uweyddor Geot; then, through the spread of Phoenician trade, the Semitic name for 
the island deities acquired permanent vogue’ (7. p. 628). Dr Farnell holds that ‘the 
original Samothracian trio’ included, not only an elder and a younger god, later identified 
with the Dioskouroi, but also a ‘female earth-spirit, conceived as earth-mother or earth- 
bride’ and ‘subordinate to the male principle of divinity’ (24. p. 630). 

13 Miss J. E. Harrison in Zhe Vear’s Work in Class. Stud. 1915 p. 76 f. 

1 £ad. tb. ps 77. 

This does not square with schol. Ap. Rhod. 1. 917 cod. Laur. (ed. H. Keil Lipsiae 
1854) muodyrar dé kal év 7H DapwoOpaxyn rots KaBelpous, ws Mvacéas pyai (frag. 27 (Frag. 
hist. Gr. iii. 154 Miiller)): kal ra dvduata airav 5 rov dpiOudy, ’Aklepos ’Agvoxépoa 
"A£éxepoos: ’Aklepos pev of éorw 7 Anurrnp, ’Akcoxépoa dé 4 Ilepoepévy, AzvdKepoos dé 6 
“Atdéns* 6 6 mpooriOéwevos rérapros Kdopidos 6 “Epps or, ws iorope? Acovucddwpos (Frag. 
hist. Gr. ii. 84 Miller). R. Pettazzoni, who doc. cit. p. 21 f. has a critical discussion of this 
passage, concludes that the names ’Aégtepos ’Aévoxépoa ’Agidxepoos, together with their 
exegesis as Anunrnp Iepcepdvn” Acdns, are probably not derived from Mnaseas, but from 
Dionysodoros a grammarian of uncertain date. The author of the explanation, whoever he 
was, appears to have equated ina purely mechanical way the early Samothracian triad 
Axieros, Axiokersa, Axiokersos with the late Eleusinian triad Demeter, Persephone, 
Hades. The equation does not inspire confidence. 

3 T have dealt with the matter in a paper on ‘The Cretan Axe-cult outside Crete’ in 
the Zransactions of the Third International Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 
1908 il. 194, cp. sepra i. 109. 


The Kadbeiroi or Megdloi Theot 315 


kersos ‘He that cleaves with the Axe!) and Axderos the ‘Axe-Eros?’ 
or ‘Axe-spirit®’ On this showing Axzokérsa was an appellative 
of the Thracian earth-goddess, Axidkersos an appellative of the 
Thracian sky-god, while Axzeros was the name given to an emana- 
tion or rebirth of the latter. The same substratum of primitive 
Thracian belief probably underlies several of the early Greek theo- 
gonies. Thus Hesiod was aware of three primeval powers, Chaos, 
Gaia, and Eros‘, Pherekydes of Syros, not only recognised Zeus, 


} Hesych. xépoar* xdpar, reuetv, xetpar, yaujoar(so cod. A. Meineke cj. ya\Noat) and 
képons* yduos (so cod. M. Schmidt cj. ydANos). The Hesychian glosses were cited in this 
connexion by Welcker Gr. Gétterl. i. 329 n. 3 and after him by L. Bloch in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. ii. 2526. Other views in R. Pettazzoni loc. cit. p. 693. 

2 That the second element in the compound ’Aéi-epos is none other than Eros 
(Homeric épos) was perceived by F. G. Welcker Die Aeschylische Trilogie Prometheus und 
die Kabirenweihe zu Lemnos Darmstadt 1824 p. 240 (after N. Fréret), E. Gerhard Hyfer- 
boretsche-rimische Studien Berlin 1852 ii. 209, C. Strube Studien tiber den Bilderkrets von 
Eleusis Leipzig 1870 p.74. G. F. Unger in the Zahrb. f. Philol. u. Padag. 1887 cxxxv- 57 
assumes a word meaning ‘earth’ connected with épa, gpafe. O. Crusius Beitrage zur 
griechischen Mythologie und Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1886 p. 26 n. 2 divides ‘aé- 
iepos?? 

3 The derivation of pws, pos is much disputed (see e.g. Prellwitz Ztym. Worterb. d. 
Gr. Spr? p. 152, Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 270 f.) and need not concern 
us. The essential thing is to realise that Eros was the form taken by the soul of the sky- 
god on the occasion of his rebirth; for the art-type of Eros is the art-type of souls in 
general. Miss J. E. Harrison hits the nail on the head, when she says: ‘Eros is but a 
specialized form of the Ker; the Erotes are Keres of life, and like the Keres take the form 
of winged Zzdola’ (Harrison Proleg. Gk. Rel.” p. 631). Eros is therefore the male Harpy 
(Hesych. dpmuv* gpwra. Alodets with M. Schmidt ad Joc., et. mag. p. 148, 33 ff." Apmus: 6 
"Epws’ ws mapa Tapbeviw ev Kpwaryédpa, ‘‘ dugporépas émiBas “Aprus édnicaro” :—mrapa 7d 
apmdgew ras gpévas) or Erinys (Hesych. dpra: ’Epwis). On the relations of Eros to 
Psyche see L. Stephani in the Comste-rendu St. Pét. 1877 pp. 53—219, A. Furtwangler 
in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 1370—1372, O. Waser in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. vi 531— 
542 and in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 3237—3256, G. Nicole in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. 
Ant, iv. 747—750, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 871 ff., td. Myth. Lit. 1908 p. 320 ff. The 
soul of a double-axe might be represented also as a butterfly (z/fra § 3 (c) i (v)). 

4 Hes. theog. 116 ff. as cited by Plat. symp. 178 B, Aristot. met. 1. 4. 984 b 27 ff., de 
Xenoph. 1. 975a 11 ff., Sext. adv. math. 9. 8, Asklepios zz Aristot. met. p. 29, 30 ff. 
Hayduck, Stob. ec/. 1. 9. 5 p. 112, 20 ff. Wachsmuth, cp. 1.9. 12 p. 115, 5 ff. Cp. Paus. 
9. 27. 2, Theophil. ad Autol. 2. 12, schol. Ap. Rhod. 3. 26, schol. Theokr. 13. 1, and, 
though Hesiod is not named, Serv. 77 Verg. Aen. 1. 664=Myth. Vat. 2. 35. See further 
A. Rzach ad loc. Similarly Akousilaos frag. 1 (Frag. hist. Gr. 1. 100 Miiller) ag. 
Damaskios guaest. de primis principizs 124 (i. 319, 8 ff. Ruelle), cp. Philodem. zrepi evce- 
Belas 137, 13 p. 61 Gomperz, made Chaos come first, then Erebos and Nyx, from whose 
union arose Aither, Eros, Metis: Plat. symp. 178c and Stob. ec. 1. g. 12 p- 115, 7 f. 
Wachsmuth state generally that Akousilaos agreed with Hesiod; schol. Theokr. 13. 1 
asserts that, according to Akousilaos, Eros was the son of Nyx and Aither. Sappho 
Srag. 132 Bergk? ap. schol. Ap. Rhod. 3. 26, Eudok. vzo/. 354 held that his parents were 
Ge and Ouranos. Ibykos frag. 31 Bergk? af. schol. Ap. Rhod. 3. 26, Eudok. vzo/. 354 
is said to have traced the descent of Eros from Chaos; but T. Bergk ad /oc. points out 
that cod. Laur. of schol. Ap. Rhod. 3. 26 reads “ISuxos <..... > 6 6é‘Halodos éx Xaous 
héyet Tov ”"Epwra, which leaves us in the dark as to Ibykos’ view. In Parmenides frag. 13 


316 Zeus Didymaios 


Chthonia, and Eros}, but in a passage of profound significance 
declared ‘that Zeus had transformed himself into Eros, when about 
to create’ the world®. The cosmogonic Eros, as G. F. Schoemann? 
called him, figures also in Orphic literature both early and late‘: 
the Rhapsodies represent ‘delightsome Eros’ as contained in and 
issuing from ‘the great body of Zeus®’; the Hymns make ‘ Eros’ a 
synonym of ‘Bakcheus,’ whom they invoke as ‘Sire of the gods and 
Son®’—a manifest echo of the old Thracian creed’. 


v. The Double Zeus. 
(a) Zeus Didymaios. 


If now we set the principal types of Father and Son over against 
the principal types of Twin Brethren, we might fairly expect to find 


Diels af. Plat. symp. 178 B, Aristot. met. 1. 4. 984b 25 ff., Simpl. 27 Aristot. phys. p. 39, 18 
mpariroy mev”Epwra bedv unricatro mdvtwy the subject of wyticaro is probably daluwy 7 
mdvra KuBepyg ( frag. 12, 3 Diels). Aét. 2.7. 1 in H. Diels Doxographi Graect Berolini 
1879 p- 336, 12 ap. Stob. ecl. 1. 22. 14 p. 195, 10 ff. Wachsmuth jvrwa Kai dalwova 
KuBepyAriw Kal K\ydodxov (so Fiilleborn for kAnpodxyov F.P.) emovoudger, dlknv te Kal 
avdyknv is supposed by J. Burnet Zarly Greek Philosophy London and Edinburgh 1892 
p- 204 to confuse the goddess in question (whom he regards as the Pythagorean Hestia=the 
Platonic Ananke) with the gate-opening Dike of Parmenides’ prologue. But in Hermes 
Trismeg. af. Stob. ecl. t. 49. 44 p- 393, 18 Dike is sister of Ananke ; and F. M. Cornford 
in his very notable book From Religion to Philosophy London 1912 p. 214 ff. argues that the 
goddess throned in the centre is not only Moira, Lachesis, Ananke, and Dike, but Aphrodite 
to boot. If so, Plout. amaz. 13 was not far wrong, when he made Aphrodite the subject of 
unrioaro. Certainly the common Greek tradition, which stretches back to Sappho /rag. 132 
Bergk* af. schol. Theokr. 13. 1 (’Appodirns kal Ovpavod, cp. Paus. 9g. 27. 3. C. J. 
Blomfield cj. js. Wilamowitz cj. ’A@podirns <7 T'¥s>), regarded Eros as the son of 
Aphrodite. His father is Zeus in Eur. Hipp. 534” Hpws, 6 Avds mais (cp. Cirs 133 ff. sed 
malus ille puer, quem nec sua flectere mater | iratum potuit, quem nec pater atque avus 
idem | Iuppiter, etc.). But the genealogy of Eros was notoriously a bone of contention : 
see Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1071 n. 1, O. Waser in Pauly—Wissowa eal-Enc. vi. 
488 f. 

1 Max. Tyr. dss. 10. 4 Diibner d\\a Kal Tod Duplov rhv moinow oxbrer, Tov Zgva Kai 
Tiv XOovinv kat Tov év TovTos "Hpwra, K.7.\. Supra i. 27 Nn. 5. 

2 Pherekyd. frag. 3 Diels af. Prokl. iz Plat. Zim. ii. 54, 28 ff. Diehl cai 6 Pepexvdys 
éheyey els "Epwra weraBeBrnobar tov Aia wéd\ovta Synucoupyetv, Gre OH Tov KdoMoVeeK TOV 
évavtiwy cuvicras els duoNoyiay Kal piiiayv Hyaye kal TavTéTyTa waow évéorerpe Kal Evwow 
Tiv 6V bwv Sujxoveay. See R. Zimmermann in the Zeztschrift fiir Philosophie und philo- 
sophische Kritik 1854 xxiv. 177, O. Kern De Orphei Epimenidis Pherecydis theogonits 
quaestiones criticae Berolini 1888 p. 95 f., D. Speliotopoulos epi epexvdou rod Dupiov kal 
THS Qeoyovias avrov Athens 1890 p. 47 n. 15. 

3G. F. Schoemann ‘De Cupidine cosmogonico’ (Gryphiswaldiae 1852) in his 
Opuscula Academica Berolini 1857 ii. 66-—92. 

4 See Append. G. 

°"Epws modurepris:...€v weyahy Znvos...cauare (Orph. frag. 123 Abel cited Append. G). 

§ Orph. A. triet. 52. 1, 6, 10 Baxyed, | ...0e@v mdrep HOE Kai vie, | ...”Epws. 

7 Supra pp. 277, 287 f., 292 ff. 


Zeus Didymaios Ee by, 


the former influenced to some extent by the latter, or the latter by 
the former : 











FATHER AND SON’ ° TWIN BRETHREN 
Zeus and Dionysos Eurytos and Kteatos 
Papas and Attis Otos and Ephialtes 
Kabeiroi Idas and Lynkeus 


Aiolos and Boiotos 

Pelias and Neleus 

Chrysaor and Pegasos 

Podaleirios and Machaon (? Twins) 
Herakles and Iphikles 

Amphion and Zethos 

Iasos and Dardanos 

Eétion and Polyarches 

Kastor and Polydeukes 

Hypnos and Thanatos 





How far is our expectation justified? Zeus is never described as 
a twin; for his epithet Dzdymatos! merely indicates that he was 
worshipped along with Apollon at Didyma near Miletos*. Macro- 


1 Athen. 477 B Nixavdpos 5’ 6 Kodopwvios év TH mpwty Tv Alrwdtkv ypdgpe “ev rE 
ieporouln Tod Arduuatov Ards Ktocod orovdorrogovrac werddoww, bev Ta apxata exTouara 
KigovBia pwvéera.” The same passage is cited by Macrob. Sa¢. 5. 21.12 and by Eustath. 
in Od. p. 1632, 8f. (cod. P. of Macrob. omits Avs. cod. C. of Athen. reads 7@ didupaiw 
Kisoov. Eustath. has Awdupuaim Ait.). 

2 Kallim. frag. 36 Schneider af. Hephaist. enxchir. 9. 4 p. 30, 17 ff. Consbruch 
daiwoves evuuvdraror PoiBé re kal Led, Acdvuwv yevdpxat, et. mag. p. 272, 45 f. PoiBé re 
kal Zed Avdvuwy yevdpxa. Cp. Ter. Maur. 1885 f. nec non et memini pedibus quater his 
repetitis | hymnum Battiaden Phoebo cantasse Iovique and Steph. Byz. s.v. Aiduua’... 
Témos Kal wavTetov Midrjrou aduepwmévoyv Act kal ’Amd\NwrL. 

Other Milesian cults recognised Zeus as BovAatos (C. Fredrich in filet ii. gt ff. 
no. 12a, 12 BovAalov raide mapa mpom’\w in a metrical inscription from the pedestal of 
a bronze statue of Lichas erected c. 200 B.C. in front of the earlier gateway of the Bouleu- 
terion, A. Rehm 2d. iii. 58 ff. no. 37.c, 43 f. rhe Te ‘Horiae rH | Bovdatae cal ree Aud rau 
BovAalex in a psephism, cf. 20. li. 122 n. 1), as Aovodpns Dwrnp (?) (A. Rehm in AVZet iii. 
263 ff. no. 165, 3 f. [2uvAA]azos, ddeApds Bacrdr[éws, wep Baciéws "OBdda] | avéOnkev Aci 
Aov[cdpye Dwripe(?)] the Greek half of a bilingual inscription on a marble base erected in 
the Delphinion by Syllaios, vizier of the Nabataean king Obodas, probably in January 
9 B.C.), as Néavos (sepra i. 733 n. 6), as Dwrnp (A. Rehm in A7fz/et iii. 152 no. 130 Acds 
Zwrjpes on a round altar or base in the Delphinion. This cult seems to have been much 
in evidence at Didyma: Cor. inser. Gr. ii no. 2852, 10 ff.= Michel Recuezl a’ Inscr. gr. 

“no. 39, 10 ff.=B. Haussoullier Etudes sur histoire de Milet et du Didymeion Paris 1902 
p- 194 ff. no. 1, 10 ff.= Dittenberger Ovdent. Gr. inscr. sel. no. 214, 10 ff. BagiNeds VéNevxos 
(Seleukos i Nikator rather than Seleukos ii Kallinikos) MiAnoiwy rie Bovdje | kal r&« 
Snuor xalpew* apecradxapev els | 7d lepdy Tod ’AmwdANwvos Tod Ev Acdvpas | THY TE AuXVLay 
Thy weyddnv Kal morhpa | xpuoG Kal dpyupa eis dvabeow Tois Oeots | Tots Dwrijpor Koulfovra 
TlodcdvOnv, émiypapas éxovra x.T.r., 43 ff. Képas emvyeypaumévov * Ad Dwrijpe” é[v,] | oAKH 
Spaxpal éxardy €BdounjKovra rpeis, | Tpets dBorol, A. Rehm in AZ/i/e¢ ili. 200 ff. no. 144 A, 
gf. [rae re "AréA]AwMe TO[e Acdume? kal Tot Ad | THe Dwrjpc] in a treaty with some unknown 
town, 7d. 2b. 233 ff. no. 150, 21 f. rau Te ’ATOANWHe THe Acdume? Kal "Apréutde kal Anro? kal 
"AOnvaG(t) Kal ra Adi rGc| Dwrhpr, 112 ff. vy ro[v] | ’AwdAdNwva tov Arduué(a) Kal rv 


318 Zeus duplicated on a gem 


bius, it is true, tried to explain Didymaios by the ‘twofold’ aspect 
of Apollon, who shines with direct rays in the sun, with reflected 
rays in the moon; and Lucian held that Didyma was named 
after the Heavenly ‘Twins*’ But such guesses, whether ancient 
or modern’, make shipwreck on the fact that other place-names 
of south-western Asia Minor (Idyma, Sidyma, Loryma, Kibyma, 
Olymos) point to a Carian‘, not to a Greek®, origin. I cannot, there- 
fore, agree with my friend Dr Rendel Harris, when he urges ‘that 
Didyma was an original twin-town*.’ 


(8) Zeus duplicated on a gem. 


Equally illusory is the monumental evidence that has been pro- 
duced in support of a twin Zeus. An 
engraved cornelian of Roman date in 
the Berlin collection (fig. 200)" cer- 
tainly shows two very similar forms of 
Zeus seated side by side, each holding 
a thunderbolt in his right hand and an 
eagle-sceptre in his left. Above them 
appears a bearded(?) male head® ; 

oh Pos and beneath them are the letters MVH. 
This enigmatic design has exercised the ingenuity of archaeologists. 





‘Eoriavy tiv Bovdatay cal rov Ala xal ri ’AOnvav kal | rods dAdovs Beo’s in a treaty of 
April 180 B.c. (?) with Herakleia on Mt Latmos, cp. zzfra § g (h) i), as ‘Térvos (at Didyma : 
see zzfra § 9 (h) i). For the Milesian festival known as Atés Bods see supra i. 717 N. 2, 
mfra § g (bh) i, and B. Haussoullier ‘Le culte de Zeus a Didymes, la Bonyla’ in the 
Mélanges Henri Weil Paris 1898 pp. 147—158. 

1 Macrob. Sat. 1. 17. 64. 2 Loukian. de astrol. 23. 

3 See e.g. A. Bouché-Leclercq Histoire de la divination dans l’antiguité Paris 1880 iil. 
231 Nn. 4. 

4 L. Biirchner in Pauly—Wissowa /eal-L£ic. v. 437. 

5 Pace the frequent topographical use of the Greek Alduua, Acdupat, Acdtiun, Aldvuor, 
Aiduyov (W. Pape—G. E. Benseler Worterbuch der griechischen Eigennamen® Braun- 
schweig 1875 i. 297f., A. Fick Vorgriechische Ortsnamen Gottingen 1905 p. 15). 

6 Rendel Harris Boanerges Cambridge 1913 p. 318. 

7 Furtwangler Geschnitt. Steine Berlin p. 121 no. 2608 pl. 23 (=my fig. 200: scale 7), 
J. J. Winckelmann Description des pierres gravées du feu Baron de Stosch Florence 1760 
ii Classe no. 42, A. H. F. von Schlichtegroll Chotx des principales Pierres gravées de la 
collection qui appartenait autrefois au Baron de Stosch et qué se trouve maintenant dans le 
Cabinet du Roi de Prusse Nuremberg 1798 (a German ed. was issued under the title 
Dactyliotheca Stoschiana) ii Classe no. 42 pl. 21, E. Gerhard Prodromus mythologischer 
Kunsterklarung (Text to Gerhard Ant. Bildw.) Miinchen 1828—1844 p. 129 n. 35, 
id. Zwet Minerven (Winckelmannsfest- Progr. Berlin viii) Berlin 1848 p. 5 n. 13 pl. 1, 5) 
C. Lenormant Mouvelle galerie mythologigue (Trésor de numismatique et de glyptique) 
Paris 1850 p. 47 f. no. 4 pl. 8, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 257 f. Gemmentaf. 3, 6. 

8 Gerhard Zwee Minerven p. 5 n. 13 (followed by Overbeck Joc. cét.) says: ‘der 
oberwarts befindliche anscheinend weibliche Kopf.’ Furtwangler Zoc. czt. tacitly corrects 
him: ‘Oben ein undeutlicher bartiger Kopf.’ The blunder was facilitated by the fact 


Zeus duplicated on a gem 319 


P. D. Lippert pronounced the divine pair to be Iupiter and Iuno?! 
C. Lenormant saw [upiter in the double*vé/e 
of Summus and Summanus*. J. J. Winckel- 
mann tried to justify the duplication by 
citing a copper coin of Smyrna, struck by 
M. Aurelius, which showed both a standing 
and a seated Zeus—Aither and Ouranos, 
he supposed*, But this coin (fig. 201)4, as 
Montfaucon had already observed’, merely 
‘symbolises an alliance between Smyrna and 
Laodikeia on the Lykos by a juxtaposition 
of the Smyrnaean Zeus Afraiéos* seated with the Laodicean Zeus’ 





Fig. 201. 


that the hair is crimped or waved. But this was a method of coiffuve employed by the 
Romans not only for women (A. Furtwangler in the Journ. Hell, Stud. 1901 xxi. 221, 
Steininger in Pauly—Wissowa feal-£7c. vii. 2139) but also on occasion for men—witness 
the numismatic portraits of Otho (J. J. Bernoulli Rémische Lkonographie Stuttgart 1891 ii. 
7 Miinztaf. 1, 5f.). 

1 P. D. Lippert Dactyliothec (Supplement) Dresden, Leipzig 1767—1776 1, 30. On 
Lippert and his services to archaeology see C. Justi Winckelmann in Deutschland Leipzig 
1866 i. 361 ff. and Furtwaingler Ant. Gemmen iii. 414f. Lippert was perhaps misled by 
the large nipples of the left-hand figure: but that is merely proof of haste and clumsiness 
on the part of the gem-engraver. 

2 C. Lenormant Joc. cit. 

% J. J. Winckelmann of. cit. p. 38, Gerhard Zwet Minerven p. 5 n. 13. 

4 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Ionia p. 307 pl. 39, 11 (=my fig. 201) rev.: ATTAAOCCO 
PICTHCTA ICTTATPICI CMVPAAO Ze. “Arrados coguoris (sc. avéOnxe) Tats 
matpiot Duup(vaiwv) Aao(dccéwv). The Smyrnaean Zeus Akraios is seated to left, with Azmd- 
tion wrapped about his legs, holding Nike in his outstretched right hand and leaning his 
left on a sceptre. Before him stands the Laodicean Zeus to right, with long chz¢é7 and 
himadtion, holding an eagle on his outstretched right hand and a sceptre over his left 
shoulder. Rasche Lex. Mum. viii. 1280. Cp. Brit. Mus. Cat. Coims Phrygia p. 324 f. 
lens ann 7 ts 

> Montfaucon Aztiguity Explained trans. D. Humphreys London 1725 Suppl. i. 33 
pl. 5 no. 6, 

Rasche Lex. Mum. iii. 675, iv. 829 records similar alliance-coins of Ephesos and 
Kyzikos, struck by Antoninus Pius, with the type of two Zeuses joining their right hands 
and the legend EPECIOC KYZIKOC (svc). But this is presumably a mistaken inter- 
pretation of the type correctly described by W. Wroth in the Art. Mus. Cat. Coins 
Mysia p. 60 no. 290 and by W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 1774 f.. as two youthful 
male figures (KVZIKOC and €PE COC) grasping right hands. 

6 Append. B Lydia. 

7 A similar type of Zeus appears on gwast-autonomous and imperial coppers of 
Laodikeia (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia pp. Ixxxi, 289 f. pl. 35, 1, 293 f., 296 f.: 
fig. 202 is from a specimen in my collection. Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 300 ff. 
pl. 37, 1, 3=my fig. 203). Sometimes he is flanked by Hera and Athena in a group 
intended to reca]l the Capitoline triad (Brzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 308 pl. 37, 7, 
Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 491 pl. 57, 3, Imhoof-Blumer A7vezvas. Miinzen i. 266 no. 21 
pl. 8, 25=my fig. 204). Another interesting imperial type shows the city-goddess (AAO 
A |KE€IA) enthroned to left, with 2d/athos, chitén, and hémdtion: in her right hand-is 
a statuette of the Laodicean Zeus, in her left a sceptre; below are two river-gods 


320 Zeus duplicated on a gem 


standing. E. Gerhard too recognised ‘ein Doppelzeus,’ whom he at 





(AVKOE and KATTP OC) with waves (Imhoof-Blumer A7e:nas. Miinzen i. 268 no. 26 
pl. 8, 26=my fig. 205). A variant makes Laodikeia hold the statuette in her right hand, 
but a cornu copiae in her left (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 317 pl. 38, 3). On 
another specimen Laodikeia, with a p/zd/e in her right hand and the statuette in her left, 
stands between a wolf (AVKOC) and a boar (KATTPOC) representing the rivers 
(F. Imhoof-Blumer ‘Zur griechischen und romischen Miinzkunde’ in the Revue sudsse 





de numismatique 1908 p. 161, Sir W. M. Ramsay The Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia 
Oxford 1895 i. 35 f., ii. 785 f.: the latter by an intelligible slip says ‘a goat KATTPOC’). 
On yet another she is enthroned to left, with the statuette in her right hand and a cornu 
copiae in her left, between two standing figures of PPVIIA and KAPIA (J. von Schlosser 
in the Mum. Zeitschr. 1891 p. 1 ff. pl. 1, r=my fig. 206, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia 
p- 317 pl. 38, 2). Head Ast. num.? p. 678 ff. 

The temple of Zeus, before which Q. Pomponius Flaccus laid a white marble pave- 
ment (G. Weber in the Ath. Muth. 1891 xvi. 144 f. no. 1, 13 f. with Ramsay of. cit. i. 50 
n. 3), has not been identified. At some period before c. 150 A.D. the cult of Zeus was 
amalgamated with that of the Roman emperor in the festival Aeia DeBaord Olxoumerixd 
(E. L. Hicks Zhe Collection of Ancient Greek Inscriptions in the British Museum iii. 2. 
233 f. Oxford 1890 no. 605, 5 Acta DeBaora olkoumerika ev Aaodcxela ayevelwv muyuljr:] | 
K.T-A., IL Acta DeBaora olkouuevixa ev Aaodixela dvdpv muyuljv:] | K.7.d., 20. iii. 2. 239 f. 
no. 615, 14 €v Aadixelg avdpay Acta with Ramsay of. czt. i. 51, 53f.).  - 

Ramsay of. cit. i. 33, 50 f., F. Imhoof-Blumer A7eznas. Miinzen i. 265 ff., and 
G. Macdonald in the Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 490 ff. speak of the god as Zeus Aaodixnvos, 
Laodicenus, and most writers call him Zeus Aaoduxe’s, Laodicenszs. But I am not aware 
of any such cult-title. Corg. inscr. Lat. ii no. 2525 lovi Ladico M. Ulp. Aug. lib. Gracilis 


Zeus duplicated on a gem 321 


first christened MWezlichios and Epidétes', but later compared with the 
Dies Ktésiot of Athenaios?: his first suggestion is improbable, his 
second impossible. Much more acute was the view of E. H. Toelken, 
who in the two Zeuses detected the reigning pair, Marcus Aurelius 
Antoninus and Lucius Aurelius Verus. The letters MVH may of 
course, as he suggested, indicate the name of the owner®. It is, how- 
ever, very possible that they are the initials of Marcus, Verus, and 
Helios—the deity whose cult was specially connected with the Aure- 
liit’ If the sun-god is bearded, that perhaps implies that he was 
identified by the gem-engraver with the preceding emperor, An- 
toninus Pius. The full official name T. Aelius Hadrianus Antoninus 
Augustus Pius would be likely enough to provoke such identification, 


ex voto is best connected with Mt Ladicus in Gallaecia (De Vit Ovomasticon iii. 735). 
If, as seems likely, the coin-types reproduce local statues, we must distinguish this Zeus 
of Laodikeia from Zeus ’Acels of the same town (supra 1. 706). 

1 E. Gerhard Prodromus mythologischer Kunsterklirung (Text to Gerhard Anz. 
Bildw.) Miinchen 1828—1844 p. 129 n. 35, cp. Plout. xox posse suaviter vivi secundum 
LEpicurt decreta 22 adda 6 pev péyos ev odpav@ Leds mrnvoy apya é\atvwv Kdtw mparos 
mopeveTar Oiakoouav mavrTa Kal émuueovpmevos* Tav dé dANwy Dedy 6 wév éotw ’Emiddrns, 6 
dé MecNixios, 6 dé "ANeElkakos* k.7-A. But this passage expressly distinguishes Zeus from 
the gods described as ’Em.dérns and MeAlxuos. 

The title "Em.dérns or "Emidwrns: (O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. vi. 60 f., 
Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 932 n. 3) is used of various deities, sometimes as an epithet 
(e.g. Paus. 2. ro. 2 at Sikyon “Yrvos karakoiuifwv Movra, Emdwrns dé érixAnow), some- 
times as a name (/zscr. Gr. Pelop. i no. 526 from the Argive Heraion g¢idAa a ’Emidwra, 
Paus. 2. 27. 6 at Epidauros iepdvy dev ods ’Emidwras évoudfovow, Collitz—Bechtel Gr. 


Dial.-Inschr. i. 133 no. 342 on a rock near the ruins of Pagasai EMIAO| TA |Iz 


=’Emdérais). As an appellative of Zeus it is attested for Sparta by Hesych. s.v. ’Hmidéras 
(so Salmasius for cod. émdéras)* Zeds év Maxedatwove (cp. Paus. 3. 17. 9 Aaxedarudrror dé 
exTeNouvTes mpoaTayua €x AeAPov Tds Te elkdvas EroijoavTo Tas XaAKGs Kai daiuova Tiuwow 
*Em.dwrnv (so Ag. Ped. R pr. man. ’Emiiwrhy Lab. R corr. Vb. ’Emiédérnv M. Va.), 7d 
éml ILavoavig rot ‘Ixeciov ujviua amorpérev tov “Emiiwrnv Néyovres Tovrov) and perhaps 
for Mantineia by Paus. 8. 9. 2 Mavrwetou dé éore kal dda lepa, TO ev Dwrhpos Ards, 7d dé 
*Em.dwrov (’Emdérov Pec. Vab.) kadousévov (so Kayser for kaXovmevov)* émdiddvar yap 6h 
ayaba avrov av@pwros. Since émidldwut properly signifies ‘I give a further gift’ (e.g. 
Pind. Pyth. 5. 163 ff. Acéds Tou véos wéyas KuBepya | daiuov’ avdpav dirtwv. | eyoual viv 
’Odvurrig TovTO | déuev yépas er Barrou yéver) and so ‘a liberal gift’ (see Stephanus 
Thes. Gr. Ling. ili. 1577 D ff.), "Emvdé7ns or "Emvdw7ns must mean ‘ the Generous Giver.’ 
Cp. Kallim. 2. Zeus g1 f. Kpovidn mavuméprare, drop édwy, | S@rop drnuovins, and an 
inscription copied by E. Falkener in the theatre at Termessos beginning MAPZYAN 
TPOIAOZSEYS | ALOSAQTHPOSEITAIO, on which C. Henzen remarks: 
‘Titulus erat fortasse honorarius Marsyae Troili filii. Zeds Awryp nimis certo in eo legi 
videtur, quam ut Dwrjpos emendare liceat’ (Azz. d. Just. 1852 xxiv. 176f.). EITAIO 
is presumably "Idalov. Cp. Zeus’ Avadwrns (Append, M szd fin.). 

2 Infra Append. H. 

3 E.H. Toelken Zrklirendes Verzeichniss der antiken vertieft geschnittenen Steine der 
Kiniglich Preussischen Gemmensammlung Berlin 1835 p. 98 no. ili, Q5- 

+ E. Klebs in Pauly—Wissowa /eal- Enc. ii. 2431, supra i. 630 n. 6. Aurelius would 
inevitably be associated with” H)tos, Helius. 


€. II. 21 


322 Zeus Tetrdotos 


for Aelius was sometimes spelled E/zus', while Heliws on occasion 
appears as Haelius?. 


(y) Zeus Tetrdotos. 


Again, Zeus—like other ancient divinities*—is sometimes Jani- 
form. But here each case has to be investigated separately, and we 
must not assume without more ado that the duplication of features 
necessarily points to twinhood‘*. 

There seems to have been a cult of Zeus Jetrdotos, ‘the Four- 
eared,’ in Phrygia’, just as there was a cult of Apollon Ze¢rdotos in 
Lakonike’, while Zetrdotos pure and simple occurs at Gela, appa- 
rently as the name of an ancient Sicanian deity (?)’. 


1 Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. nos. 2431, 6122, 61224. 

» Corp. inser. Lat. vi no. 19138. 

3 See e.g. W. H. Roscher’s collection of Janiform heads in Roscher Lex. JZyth. ii. 
49—85- 

4 Other possibilities with regard to the origin and development of these multiple types 
are discussed in Folk-Lore 1904 xv. 282 ff. 

5 A. Korte in the Gott. Gel. Anz. 1897 clix. 408 no. 51 Skar-djzik (the stone is broken 
at the top and damaged in the last line but one) — — — [od]|v yuvaixl Ké <réxv|ocs Warép 7|Gv 
idlwv | Ad Terpalw[rw kar’] elxjv. Korte suggests Terpdwros, but remarks that this 
necessitates kar’ evx7v, an unusual formula. 

6 Zenob. 1. 54 dkove To0 Ta Téscapa wra exovTos: emi Tv arreOovvTwy. xpynouos yap 
€560y ’Evtiuw T@ Kpnrl xal ’Avtipjuw Te ‘Podiw puddiacOa Tov Tetpdwrov* jv dé ovTos 
AnorHns PoivE* of OE Tov Xpnomod aueNjoavTes amwAovTO. 7H El TOO moda lddyTOs Kai 
Tmo\\a adkovcavTos, ws “Apistopayns pyoiv. ddNo O€ THY mapomlavy mapayyé\\ew Tov 
anbevivtwy axovew* ovdels yap aWevdéorepos Tov ’Amdb\Nwvos, bv TeTPAXELpAa Kal TETPAWTOY 
Lipvcavro Aakedatudvior, Ws pynot DwolB.os (frag. 11 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 627 Miiller)), ore 
ToLoUTOS WHAN Tots Tepl AuvKay waxouévors. Similar statements occur in Diogeneian. 2. 5 
and Apostol. 1. 93. Cp. Liban. ov. 11. 204 (i. 2. 507, 9 ff. Foerster) anent the shape of 
the new town at Antiocheia on the Orontes ék dé apidwy Terrdpwv addAjAats cuvnppoc- 
pévey els TEeTpdywvov TUTOV Wamep EE duadod TéTTAapes GTOGY auUsvylar Kal’ ExacToOY TUALA 
Tod ovpavol TéravTat, olov év ’Amé\Awvos TeTpdxeELpos ayd\uatt, Hesych. s.v. Koupldiov’... 
Adxwves 5€ xoupiéiov kadovor Tov map avrois (so Stephanus Thes. Gr. Ling. iv. 1893 A for 
Kahovat. mapa de avrots cod.) rerpaxetpov “Améd\Nwva, za. 5.v. KvaKlas* iudvTes, ol Ex Bipons 
Tov opayiacbevros TeTpaxerpt AmwdAwU Bods €raOda didouévov, Scholl—Studemund anecd. 
i. 267 ('Arré\Xwvos) 38 Terpaxetpov, H. J. W. Tillyard in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1905- 
1906 xii. 378 f. no. 44, 1 f.=Jluscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess.i no. 259, 1 f. (slab with carved 
pediment from the precinct of Artemis Orthéa) ipeds veto, Mdkaipa, kalovyyyrov] | terpa- 
xetpos uGay [vixjoas dy]|Oero KadXuxpdrns. x.7.A. See further O. Hofer in Roscher Zex. 
Myth. v. 398 f. 

7 Entimos and Antiphemos, the founders of Gela (Hdt. 7. 153, Thouk. 6. 4, Athen. 
297 F), consulted the Pythia (Diod. 8. 23, Aristainetos (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 319 Miiller) ap. 
Steph. Byz. s.v. Téda, ef. mag. p. 225, 1 ff., cp. schol. Pind. OZ. 2. 16) and were bidden 
inter alia to beware of rév Terpdwrov (supra n. 6). They became embroiled with the 
Sikanoi (Artemon of Pergamon /rag. 5 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 341 f. Miiller) af. schol. Pind. 
Ol. 2. 16), and Antiphemos, having sacked the Sicanian town of Omphake, carried off to 
Gela an image made by Daidalos (Paus. 8. 46. 2, 9. 40. 4). Since Janiform deities other 
than Ianus were not unknown in southern Sicily (Bvzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Sicily p. 186 
Syracuse no. 283, G. F. Hill Coins of Ancient Sicily London 1903 p. 150 pl. 11, 4), it 


The Celtic Janiform god a2 8 


(5) The Celtic Janiform god. 


Silver statéres struck by the Celts far up the Danube valley, in 
imitation of the fine tetradrachms issued by Philippos ii of Make- 
donia (figs. 207, 208)!, sometimes transform the head of Zeus into that 





Fig. 208. 


of a two-faced bearded god resembling Ianus (figs. 209, 210)”. Again, 


may be conjectured that this Sicanian image was 0 Terpdwros, later rationalised into a 
Phoenician freebooter (sara n. 6). 

1 [ illustrate two specimens in my collection: (1) Fig. 207=obv. Head of Zeus, 
laureate, to right; rev. PIAIT POY Youth on horseback to right, carrying palm- 
branch. In the field a thunderbolt, probably the mint-mark of Pella. In the exergue N. 
(2) Fig. 208=obv. Head of Zeus, with olive-wreath and olive-berries, to right; rev. 
IAI POY Bearded Macedonian horseman, in short chitén, chlamys, and kauséa, 
raising his right hand. In the field forepart of winged horse, probably the mint-mark of 
Lampsakos, and bow. See also Head Cozns of the Ancients p. 44 pl. 22, 18, zd. Hesse. 
num.” p. 223 fig. 136, P. Gardner Zypes of Gk. Coins pp. 153, 155 pl. 7, 29 and 39, 
Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 93, 96f., 104f. Miinztaf. 1, 21, G. F. Hill in the 
Journ. Ffell. Stud. 1897 xvii. 79 pl. 2, 11, td. A Handbook of Greek and Roman Coins 
London 1899 pp. 164, 171, 176f., 261 pl. 7, 1, 2d. Historical Greek Coins London 1906 
p: 80ff. pl. 5, 44. 

2 E. Muret—M. A. Chabouillet Catalogue des monnazes gauloises de la Bibliotheque 
Nationale Paris 1889 p. 235 nos. 9897—9899, H. de la Tour Atlas de monnaies gauloises 
Paris 1892 no. 9899 pl. 51 (=my fig. 209) in the Bibliotheque Nationale at Paris, E. Fiala 
Collection Ernst Prinz 2u Windisch-Gritz Prag 1895—1897 no. 2891, R. Forrer Keltische 
Numismatik der Rhein- und Donaulande Strassburg 1908 pp. 167, 169 fig. 328 pl. 36 
found in the district of Tolna, Hungary, and now in the Forrer collection, M. Dessewffy 
Barbér Pénzei Budapest 1910 p. 40 no. 814 pl. 33 (I owe this reference to the 
kindness of my friend Mr G. F. Hill), R. Ratto Catalogo di una grande colleztone ai 
un distinto numismatico straniero Milano 1912 p. 16 no. 169 pl. 3. Fig. 210 is from a 
specimen of mine, referred to Pannonia (?): obv. Janiform bearded head; rev. Horseman, 
with plumed helmet, to right. In front of the horse’s nose is [", the last remains of the 


legend PIAIF POY. Weight 189 grains. 


2a 


324 The Celtic Janiform god 


gold statéres and quarter-statéres struck by the Mediomatrici, whose 





Fig. 210. 


chief town was Divodurum (Mettis, J7ez¢z) on the Moselle, have for ob- 
verse type a beardless Janiform head (figs. 211—213)4. And coppers 





Fig. 212. Fig. 213. 


issued by Cunobelinus at Camulodunum (Colchester) have on one 
side a similar Janiform head, on the other a sow seated beneath an 
oak(?)-tree (fig.214). This may be taken to imply that the Danubian, 
Rhenic, and British Celts recognised a god facing both ways. Such 
a god might appear in Roman dress as the Ianus Gemznus* of 


1 E. Muret—M. A. Chabouillet of. czt. p. 207 nos. 8933 ff., H. de la Tour of. ciz. 
nos. 8933, 8937, 8944 pl. 36 (=my figs. 211—213), R. Forrer of. cét. p. 346 fig. 543- 

2 Sir J. Evans Zhe Coins of the Ancient Britons London 1864 p. 344 ff. pl. 13, 1 
(=my fig. 214). : 

3 Corp. inscr. Lat. iii no. 5092 a=Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 3319 (found near 
Wolfsberg at the foot of Mt. Saualpe in Carinthia, now at Klagenfurt) Iano Ge|mino etc. 
See further zzf/ra p. 338 n. 3 fiz. 


The Celtic Janiform god 425 


Noricum, the Ianus Pater!, lanus Augustus’, lanus Pater Augustus® 
of Dalmatia, the Ianus Vaeosus* of Gallia 
Narbonensis. Indeed, the memory of this 





dicephalous deity lingered on through the \ WES 
middle ages into modern times. Geoffrey “= — 


of Monmouth, who died in 1154 A.D., de- Fig. 214. 
scribes the burial of King Lear by his daughter Cordelia in the 
following terms?: 


‘But Cordeilla, now mistress of the helm of state, buried her father in a certain 
underground chamber, which he had bidden to be made beneath the river Sora 
within the town of Legecestria. Now this underground chamber had been 
founded in honour of the two-faced Janus. And here, when the day of celebra- 
tion came round, all the workmen of the town used to begin the work that would 
occupy them throughout the year.’ 


Geoffrey professes to be translating literally from a very ancient 
manuscript in the Welsh tongue lent to him by Walter, archdeacon 
of Oxford®. And it must be admitted’ that the extant chronicle in 
Old Welsh attributed to Tysilio, bishop of Wales (s. vii A.D.)8, agrees 
closely with Geoffrey’s account : 


1 Corp. inscr. Lat. iii no. 2881 (Corinium (avzz)) Iano Pat[ri] | etc., no. 3030 
(Flanona (7ianona)) Iano | Patri. 

2 Corp. inscr. Lat. iii no. 2969=Dessau Zrscr. Lat. sel. no. 3321 (Aenona (Vona)) 
Iano Aug. | etc. 

3 Corp. inscr. Lat. iii no. 3158=Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 3320 (brought from 
Salonae (Salona) (?) to Padua, and now at Zste) Iano Patri | Aug. etc. 

4 Corp. inscr. Lat. xii no. 1065 (Cadenet near Iulia Apta (AZZ)) Iano Vaeolso etc. 

5 Galfredus Monumetensis Azst. veg. Brit. 2. 14 Cordeilla vero regni gubernaculum 
adepta sepelivit patrem in quodam subterraneo, quod sub Sora fluvio intra Legecestriam 
fieri praeceperat (frvaecepit ed. Ascensii). erat autem subterraneum illud conditum in 
honorem bifrontis Jani. ibi omnes operarii urbis adveniente solemnitate diei (I should 
prefer to read dez) opera, quae per annum acturi erant, incipiebant. 

6 Galfredus Monumetensis hist. reg. Brit. 1. 1, cp. II. I, 12. 20. For a discussion of 
these passages see San-Marte’s ed. pp. xiii—xx (‘Gottfrieds Quellen’). 

7 W.M. Flinders Petrie ‘ Neglected British History ’ in Proceedings of the British 
Academy 1917 viii argues that the Brut Tysilio is really the original from which Geoffrey 
was drawing. See further an important crttégue of this paper in The Cambridge Review 
1918 xxxix. 363 f. by [Dr] M. R. J[ames]. 

8 The text is printed by W. Owen Zhe Myvyrian Archaiology of Wales London 1801 
ii. 81—390. I give the translation by P. Roberts Zhe Chronicle of the Kings of Britain 
London 1811 p. 44f. Jd. 2. p. 354 well compares the description given by Giraldus 
Cambrensis z¢2z. Cambr. 1. 2 (p. 349 of Sir R. C. Hoare’s trans. in Bell’s reprint 1905) 
of the festival of St. Almedha as celebrated on Aug. 1, Lammas Day (one of the four 
cross-quarter days—Roodmas, Lammas, Martinmas, Candlemas: see zzfra p. 326 n. 4), 
near Aberhodni: ‘ You may see men or girls, now in the church, now in the churchyard, 
now in the dance, which is led round the churchyard with a song, on a sudden falling on 
the ground as ina trance, then jumping up as in a frenzy, and representing with their 
hands and feet, before the people, whatever work they have unlawfully done on feast 
days; you may see one man put his hand to the plough, and another, as it were, goad 
on the oxen, mitigating their sense of labour, by the usual rude song: one man imitating 


326 Iupiter Ambisagrus and 


Cordalia now took the sovereignty of Britain into her own hands. Lear was 
buried in a cavern formed below the River Soar at Leicester, and which had 
been magnificently constructed in honour of the God Bifrons. Here likewise all 
the artificers of the kingdom were assembled annually, to work at what trade 
soever they were to pursue, to the end of the year from that time. 


Sir John Rh¥s comments: ‘This seems to mean that Llyr as a 
Celtic Dis was a god of beginnings, and that he had, like the Dis 
of the Gauls, more than one face, which naturally led him to be 
identified with the Roman Janus. The town of Leicester seems to 
have been a great centre of this cult, and only one thing is wanting ; 
but it is a very important thing, namely, the discovery on the spot 
of some relic of antiquity inscribed with some such words as Deo 
Jano Liro Sacrum, Recently Miss M. A. Murray in an article of 
exceptional interest? has called attention to the fact that the devil 
worshipped by the witches of southern France as late as the seven- 
teenth century was Janiform’, and has made it probable that at the 
‘Sabbaths’ held on the four cross-quarter days* he was represented 
by a man with a double mask’. 


{e) Iupiter Ambisagrus and Iupitér Dianus. 


Zeus and lupiter were seldom, if ever, Janiform in classical art. 
In 1843 E. Braun published a bifrontal head in the Palazzo Spada 


the profession of a shoemaker; another, that of a tanner. Now you may see a girl with 
a distaff, drawing out the thread, and winding it again on the spindle; another walking, 
and arranging the threads for the web; another, as it were, throwing the shuttle, and 
seeming to weave. On being brought into the church, and led up to the altar with their 
oblations, you will be astonished to see them suddenly awakened, and coming to them- 
selves.’ P. Roberts 2d. p. 354 further cites the ceremony known (c. 1750) as ‘riding the 
Franchises’: ‘Upon this occasion the artizans of a corporation went in procession, and 
those of each trade exhibited a kind of booth, or shop, on a car, in which there was one 
or more working at the trade.’ 

1 Sir J. Rhys Studies in the Arthurian Legend Oxford 1891 p. 131 f. Jd. 7. p. 131 
derives Lezcester from Lezx-Cestre: on which, however, see J. B. Johnston Zhe Place- 
names of England and Wales London 1915 p. 342. 

2 M.A. Murray ‘Organisations of Witches in Great Britain’ in Fo/k-Love 1917 xxviii. 228 ff. 

* P. de Lancre Tableau de l’inconstance des mauvais Anges et Demons Paris 1612 p. 72 
‘Ianette d’Abadie de Siboro agee de 16. ans, dict qwil auoit vn visage deuant, & vn 
visage derriere la teste, comme on peint le Dieu Ianus,’ 26. p. 132 f. ‘elle dict qu’elle y 
vid le Diable en forme d’homme noir & hideux, auec six cornes en la teste, parfois huict, 
& vne grande queué derriere, vn visage deuant & vn autre derriere la teste, comme on 
peint le dieu Ianus.’ Cp. 26. p. 72 ‘ D’autres qu’il est comme yn grand bouc, ayant deux 
cornes deuant & deux en derriere:... & vne grande queué au derriere, & yvne forme de 
visage au dessoubs: duquel visage il ne profere aucune parole, ains luy sert pour le donner 
a baiser a ceux que bon luy semble, honorant certains sorciers ou sorcieres plus les vns 
que les autres.’ 

4 Roodmas or Holy Cross Day (May 3, originally April 30?), Lammas (Aug. 1), 
Hallowmas (Oct. 31), Candlemas (Feb. 2). On the Celtic May—November year see the 
literature cited by Frazer Golden Bough®: Balder the Beautiful i. 223 n. 1 f. 

> Cp. znfra § 3 (a) v (0) fin. 





‘JQrt asvg vag 
‘oWoY ye epeds ozzejeg oy} ul (¢ snuey) proy jeu 


| 
| 





hs 


| 
| 
| 
| 





XX 24id 


Jupiter Dianus R27 


at Rome (pl. xx)!, which he took to be a representation of Zeus 
in his celestial and chthonian characters, the former mild, the. latter 
stern, Braun was followed by J. Overbeck. But E. Gerhard, when 
confronted with the head, failed to detect any such distinction’®. 
And K. F. Hermann‘, P. W. Forchhammer', K. O. Miller®,.W. H. 
Roscher’, were all inclined to think that the sculptor meant to 
portray, not a Janiform Zeus, but Ianus him- 
self. However, Braun was able to support 
his contention by quoting from P. Pedrusi 
(fig. 215)§ a silver coin of Geta, struck in 
211 A.D., which certainly shows a beardless(?)? 
two-faced god—presumably [upiter”—holding 
a thunderbolt in his left hand and a reversed 
spear in his right. Forchhammer observed 
that the attributes are those of Iupiter Co- 
servator, and suggested that this god was fused with lanus Con- 
servatoy in a unique numismatic type commemorating the double 
rule of Geta and Caracalla". I should explain the type somewhat 





1 E. Braun Antike Marmorwerke 2um ersten Male bekannt gemacht Erste und zweite 
Decade Leipzig 1843 p. 4 no. 3 pl. 3? and pl. 3» (combined in my pl. xx). The double 
head is about life-size and broken off at the neck. We cannot therefore be sure whether 
it came from a statue or from a herm. In the Palazzo Spada it is set on an ancient, but 
single, herm, which does not belong to it. Both noses are damaged, and restored in the 
drawing. 

2 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. gt f. Matz—-Duhn Antz. Bildw. in Rom i. g no. 32 
remark that, of the two faces, the one here figured on the right is more like Zeus, the one 
here figured on the left more like Poseidon. 

3 See E. Braun of. cit. p. 4. E. Gerhard in the Arch. Zezt. 1850 viii. 137 n. 6 is non- 
committal. 

+ K. F. Hermann in the Gétt. gel. Anz. 1844 i. 335. 

> Pp. W. Forchhammer in the Zeitschrift fiir die Alterthumswissenschaft 1844 ii. 
1074—I077. ; 

® K.O. Miiller Handbuch der Archaeologie der Kunst® Stuttgart 1878 p. 669 § 407 n. 2 

7 W. H. Roscher in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. sof. 

8 P. Pedrusi 7 Cesart in argento da Adriano sino a Caracalla, e Geta Raccolti nel 
Farnese museo E pubblicati colle loro congrue is nen Parma 1703 iii. 365—367 
pl. 24 no. 16 fig. (=my fig. 215). 

® E. Braun of. ci¢. inset on pl. 3>= Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 367 fig. 2 shows apparently 
a beardless +a bearded face, but is a very inexact reproduction of Pedrusi’s figure. 

10 P. Pedrusi /oc. cit. interprets the type as a two-faced Ianus regarding at once the 
past and the future. Cohen A/onn. emp. rom.” iv. 274 no. 197 says: ‘Janus? ou Jupiter 
a double téte’ etc. J. Khell Ad numismata imperatorum Romanorum aurea ef argentea 
a Vaillantio edita, a Cl. Baldinio aucta ex solius Austrie utriusque, tisgue aliguibus 
Museis Subplementum a Julio Caes. ad Comnenos se porrigens Vindobone 1767 p. 131, 
describing a similar piece (Cohen of. cz7.* iv. 274 n. 1), has: ‘Juppiter seminudus stans d. 
hastam preepilatam inversam, s. fulmen.’ See also Fo/k-Lore 1905 xvi. 276. 

1 Pp, W. Forchhammer Joc. cz. A silver coin of Pertinax, with reverse of Ianus half- 
draped standing, spear in right hand, is inscribed IANO CONSERVAT (Rasche Lex. Mui. 
iv. 505f., 512, Suppl. iii. 70, Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” iii. 392 no. 17). 


328 Iupiter and Janus in the Salian Hymn 


differently. A remarkable inscription engraved on a small altar 
found,at Aquileia records the worship of Iupiter Optemus Maximus 
Co(nservator) et Ambisagrus’. The last title is commonly regarded 
as quite obscure®. But in view of our coin it becomes transparently 
simple. Amébzsagrus is vulgar Latin for Ambdbisacrus* and means 
“Sacred on both sides‘. It implies that the Iupiter in question was 
a god resembling the two-faced Ianus. Accordingly, we are not 
surprised to discover that in the same town Aquileia there was a 
cult of Iupiter Déanus’—an ancient form of Ianus identified with 
the later Iupiter. It is hardly accidental that this Janiform Iupiter 
occurs in a district which was permeated with Celtic influences. 


(€) Iupiter and Ianus in the Salian Hymn. 


The rapprochement between Janus on the one hand and Zeus or 
lupiter on the other is attested, not only by Augustine® and Proklos’ 
in the fifth century A.D., but also—to all appearance—by a Salian 
hymn which is one of the very oldest specimens of the Latin 
language’®. 


1 Corp. inscr. Lat. v no. 790. 

2 M. Ihm in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 1799 (‘Zweifelhaft, ob Name eines Gottes... 
Man konnte eher an einen Beinamen des Iuppiter denken’), Zhes. Ling. Lat. i. 1851, 47 
(‘vex vecte intellegitur’). 

3 Cp. Corp. znscr. Lat. xiv no. 3571=E. Diehl Vedlgdrlateinische Inschriften Bonn 
Igto p. 42 no. 456 (Tibur) Erchul | sagrum (= Hercule sacrum). T. Mommsen in Cor. 
inscr. Lat. v. 1179 prints ‘Iupiter optimus maximus co(nservator) et Ambisager.’ But the 


termination -sagrus is supported by | $ |AKPO%S in the second line of the famous inscrip- 
Si" PP y Pp 


tion from the Roman Forum (D. Comparetti Zscrizione arcaica del Foro Romano Firenze— 
Roma rgoo p. 8 with plate. Bibliography by Sir J. E. Sandys in A Companion to Latin 
Studies? Cambridge 1913 p. 73{). 

4 Cp. Ov. fast. 1. 95 tunc sacer ancipiti mirandus imagine Ianus | etc. A similar 
formation is the compound Avz( f)sazctus, on which see the Zhes. Ling. Lat. i. 2017, 50 ff. 
and P. Lejay in the Rev. Philol. N.S. 1917 xli. 185 ff. 

5 Corp. inscr. Lat. v no. 783 (found at Aquileia in 1817) 1ovi | DIANG - | C- HERRE|- 
N-NIvs: | CANDIDVS | V-S:L+M. The name of the dedicator is misread as C: HERRE|- 
NONIVs by G. Orti Manara in the Bu//. d. Inst. 1839 p. 130, Orelli—Henzen Znser. Lat. 
sel. no. 5622. See further T. Birt in Roscher Lex. MZyth. i. 1003, Class. Rev. 1902 xvi. 
372 n. 1, Molk-Lore 1905 xvi. 277; 288f. (with correction 7. p. 462), Frazer Golden 
Bough*: The Magic Art ii. 382, Wissowa “Rel. Kilt. Rom.” p. 113 n. 3. 

6 Aug. de czv. Dei 7. g has a discussion ‘de Iovis potestate atque eiusdem cum Iano 
comparatione.’ /d. 2. 7. 10 raises the question ‘an Iani et Iovis recta discretio sit.’ 

7 Proklos begins and ends a gzasi-Orphic hymn to Hekate and Ianus with the lines: 
xatpe, Oey mijrep, modudvune, KadduyéveOde* | xaip, “Exdrn mpoOvpaia, meyacbevés* ada 
kal avrds | xatp’, "lave mpomdrop, Led dpéire: xatp, Urare Zed (Prokl.-%. 6. 1 ff., 13 ff. in 
E. Abel Orfhica Lipsiae—Pragae 1885 p. 281). 

8 Varr. de ling. Lat. 7. 26 in multis verbis in quo[d] antiqui dicebant S, postea dicunt 
R, ut in carmine Saliorum sunt haec: ‘cozeulodorieso. omnia vero adpatula coemisse. 
ian cusianes duonus ceruses. dunus Ianusue uet pom melios eum recum’ * * * I give the 
text as printed by the latest editors, G. Gotz and F. Scholl (1910). Within the last forty 
years numerous critics have attempted to rewrite this puzzling passage. 


Tupiter and Ianus in the Salian Hymn 329 


(1) H. Jordan Aritische Bettrage zur Geschichte der latetnischen Sprache Berlin 1879 
pp. 152, 223 f. proposes the following Saturnian lines: 
o Zetil adériésis—} Omniaueroad 
patulcius clusivius—Ianus cusidnus’s 
duonw’ cérus es duonu’ Ianus—prémelids es récum 
where o Zeéid=o Sol and addrié(z)sts is adjectival. 
(2) L. Havet De Saturnio Latinorum versu Paris 1880 pp. 243 ff., 249 ff., 410 gives: 
Cozevi, adoriose, +omnia vero ad; patulti, oenus es; jancus, Jan(e), es; 
dvonus Cerus es; tdun; Janus +vevet; po meliose im recum... 
with the interpretation: Covsivi, adoriose, ...... tod; Patulti, unus es; janitor, Jane, es; 
bonus Certs eS; .....,Janus......; potissimum, meliorem eum regumt.... 

(3) T. Bergk Avezne philologische Schriften Halle a. S. 1884 i. 477 ff. (§ De carminum 
Saliarium reliquiis’=Zndices lectionum...in academia Marburgensi...MDCCCXLVI... 
MDCCCXLVIII1) had suggested : 

(a) Ozeul adosiose... 
(4) ...omina vero ad Patulcie misse 
Idnitos Idnes: duontis cerus és, Ianes. 
(c) dtionus Ianus atictet, pd melidsem récum... 
where Ozezl (Oozeul?) etc.=Sol adoriose ; omina etc.=precationes vero admitte, Patulcie 
Lanitor lane: bonus creator es, Jane; and diéonus etc.=bonus Lanus auctet, guo meliorem 
regum (nullum terra vidit Saturnia unguam). 

(4) E. Bahrens in his edition (Lipsiae 1886) of the Poet. Lat. min. vi. 30 frag. 3 
prints : 

Ozetil, o dédmine, es 6mnium 
patér ! Pattilci, Cloési, 

es ianetis, ianés es ! 

duontis certis es oénus, 
promélios déuom récum. 

At the end of the third line Bahrens has added es. After the fourth line he has sup- 
pressed /anusue uet as a variant on the third line transcribed ‘ex uetusto codice.’ The 
fifth line he takes to mean: maximus dominorum caelestium. 

(5) C. M. Zander Carmints Saharis reliquiae Lundz 1888 pp. 1—4, 16—29, 39—53 
defends the following text and translation : 

O Zail, adortese émnia ! 


Vero™ ad patla cdémts es _—idnetis, Idnes. 
Dvonus Cérus és, dvonus Ianus. 
Veueis promérios préme ditis extim reconde. 


=O sol ortens inuade omnia! | Portarum ad patulos aditus comis es ianitor, Lane. | Bonus 
Genius es, bonus anus. | Vivis (dat. plur.), (optime) promeritus, prome dies et reconde. 
(6) B. Maurenbrecher ‘Carminum Saliarium reliquiae’ in the Jahrb. f. class. Philol. 
Suppl. 1894 xxi. 332—335 /rags. 2 and 3: 
2. O Zol, adoriso omnia—verod Patulci cosmis ; 
Es Sancus Ianis duonus,—Cerus es duonus Ianus. 
3. Potissimum meliosum recum. 

The third word in frag. 2 is either adoriso=adoriris or adoriso=adoreris. The frag- 
ment is rendered: O So/, (qui) ad omnia vadis (surgis), re vera comis Patulcd : | es bonus 
Sancus Lantus, es bonus Cerus, (es) Janus. Frag. 3 describes Ianus as most powerful of the 
gods (meliores reges). 

(7) T. Birt in the Rhein. Mus. 1897 lii Erganzungsheft (‘Sprach man avrum oder 
aurum ?’) pp. 162, 193—197 : 

Conzévids hordésios Optimos maximos Ianos 
Patulcdés geminds seianes ctisianés, duonus cérus es, 
Duonus Janus réxque optimus méliostim récum. 
Conzévids = Consevius ; hordésios is an adjective formed from hordeum ; setidnes is con- 


330 Tupiter and Janus in the Salian Hymn 


nected with Se‘a, Fructiseia, the goddess of sowing ; céstanés=curianus (cp. Curiatius, 
Quirinus). 

(8) G. Hempl ‘The Salian Hymn to Janus’ in the Zransactions and Proceedings of 
the American Philological Association 1900 xxxi. 182—188 would restore the lines with 
(a) stressed or (4) quantitative scansion : 

(a) cocéuldd oriéso - émnia uérdd patula céemis - 
es idnos cfisidtios - dudnos céros es [07 és] - 
dudnos idnos uéniet - potissimos melidsom récom + 
(4) co\ceuldd | orié|so - omnia | uérdd | patula | coemis - 
es | ianos | citsijatios | - duonos | ceros es - 
dujonos ia|nos uenilet - poti{mos melijosom | récom - 
Here coceuléd=cuciilo, oriéso=orizre, coemis =comis (‘ bring together, bring about, make, 
arrange’), césiatios =ciriatius. Hemp! translates: ‘Come forth with the cuckoo ! Truly 
all things dost thou make open. | Thon art Janus Curiatius, the good creator art thou. | 
Good Janus is coming, the chief of the superior rulers.’ 

(9) T. von Grienberger ‘ Die Fragmente saliarischer Verse bei Varro und Sane: in 

the /udogermanische Forschungen 1910 xxvii. 205—223 recognises two sentences : 

co zeuldd oriés oomina ueruad patulaco émisse ; 

ian cerus ian es, duonus cerus es, duonus ianusue et pom-melios eum recum ! 
=cum diluculo oriens exta apud portam patulam accipe! | Iane creator, Iane es ; bonus 
creator es, bonus Tanusve, et multo melior (optimus) zllorum regum! Thus *seulom is for 
“diéu-lo-m, a derivative of *djéu- (‘sky, sky-god, day’); uerudd patulaco is for ueroad 
* pdtilad-cd, substantive (Italic masc. uéro-, ‘door’) and adjective in ablative case governed 
by the postposition -co (‘at, by’) ; émzsse is the second person singular of the imperative of 
“&missere (a frequentative or intensive form of éére in its older sense ‘ to take’) governing 
oomina the accusative plural of dmen (not for osmen, ‘omen,’ but a by-form of omentum, 
‘entrails’) ; pom-melios is for *dt-melios from *pédte-melios {* much better’). 

To these nine reconstructions I am tempted to add a tenth, For convenience’ sake I 
print the traditional text side by side with my reading of it: 


cozeulodorieso. io, Zeu Loidorie, io. 

omnia vero adpatula coemisse. omnia vera da patula, Camise. 
ian cusianes duonus ceruses. Ianus Ian es; duonus Cerus es, 
dunus Ianus duonus Ianus, 

ue uet pom melios eum recum. vel veterum promerios recum. 


‘Ho, Festal Iupiter, ho! | Fling wide all the doors, god of the Archway. | Thou art Ianus 
Ian ; thou art the good Creator, | good Ianus, | foremost, an thou wilt, of ancient kings.’ 
To justify text and translation I would urge the following points. W. M. Lindsay Ze 
Latin Language Oxford 1894 p. § suggested O 2ev=G Zed: the Grecism Zew was 
perhaps due to the Greek appearance of Loidorie. Walde Lat. etym. Worterb.? p. 444 con- 
nects /ozédos, the archaic form of /dus, with Noldopos, Nowdopetv, as do Prellwitz Zzym. 
Worterb. ad. Gr. Spr2 p. 273 and Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 586: hence 
Loidorie =‘ god of the Ludi.’ T. von Grienberger (supra (g)) pointed out that véro- is the 
Italic word for ‘door.’ Kamise was the sister and wife of Ianos, when he first came to 
Italy (Drakon of Kerkyra mepi MO@wv (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 402 f. Miiller) af. Athen. 
692 D—F: cp. Demophilos (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 86 Miiller) af. Lyd. de mens. 4. 2 p. 66, 7 ff. 
Wiinsch Kayaoyvnr, interp. Serv. ix Verg. Aen. 8. 330 Camasenae (v./. Camesenae)). Or, 
Cameses and Ianus were two indigenous rulers, who divided Italy between them 
(Protarchos of Tralleis (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 485 Miiller) followed by Hyg. frag. 6 Peter ap. 
Macrob. Sat. 1. 7. 19 cum Camese (Camase cod. G. camasene (‘alterum ¢ ex corr.’) 
cod. A.)). Both versions are best explained by the assumption that Ianus himself had an 
old cult-title Cameses or Camises meaning ‘ god of the Archway’ (cp. camera, caminus, and 
the group of words, including the German Himmel, discussed by Prellwitz of. c#t.? p. 206, 
Walde of. cit.2 p. 120, Boisacq of. cit. p. 401 f.). Fest. p. 205 @ 19 ff. Miiller, p, 222, 
30 ff. Lindsay promeriom (promeriom cod. W., promerion cod. Y., promorion cod. X. 





Janus and Jupiter on coins 297 


(y) Ianus and Iupiter on coins. 


It is, moreover, borne out by numismatic evidence. The Roman 
as from ¢. 338 B.C. onwards’, both in its original form as a pound of 
bronze (figs. 216—218)? and in its subsequent reductions (figs. 219— 
230)*, had for obverse design the head of Ianus, while the corre- 
sponding semzs, both early (figs. 231, 232)4 and late (figs. 233236)’, 
had that of Iupiter. Similarly in the Romano-Campanian series of 
the half-century c. 290 to c. 240 B.C. silver didrachms (figs. 237— 
239)° and drachms, struck at Capua(?) in the name of Rome’, 
showed a beardless head of Ianus on the obverse, and on the 
reverse Iupiter with thunderbolt and sceptre in a four-horse chariot 
driven by Victory. Thus within and without Rome itself Ianus was 
associated with Iupiter as senior with junior deity. 


J. J. Scaliger cj. promerito, F. Lindemann cj. promeritom, E. Biahrens cj. promedion 
(=promelion)) praecipuum, praeter caeteros meritum aut promedium, hoc est participat 
(E. Thewrewk de Ponor cj. participatum, J. J. Scaliger cj. participem, C. O. Miiller cj. 
pro “opi hoc est particula); ut (aut cod. W.) pro indiviso dicimus. I take promerzos to 
be cognate with the Greek mpéuos and the Umbrian promum (=Latin prémum): for the 
suffix cp. G. Goetz Corpus glossariorum Latinorum Lipsiae 1888 ii. 124, 34 Lucerius, 
Zevs, and such names as Wumerius, Valerius. 

Mr J. Whatmough, whom I consulted on the matter, proposes Je as vocative 
(dieu > Ieu>Iou>Iu-piter) and would be rid of rhotacism. On this showing the original 
(corrupted in Varro’s text by Grecism and rhotacism) might have run: 

io, Ieu Loidosie, io. 

omnia vera da patula, Camese. 
Ianos Ian es; duenos Ceros es, 
duenos Ianos, 

vel vetesom promesios recom. 

! See now H. A. Grueber in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. i p. xix ff. 

* Fig. 216 is from a specimen in my collection (weight 265°35 grammes). Figs. 217 
and 218 are from specimens in the Fitzwilliam Museum (weights 256°75 and 255°75 grammes 
respectively). 

3 Fig. 219=E. J. Haeberlin des grave Frankfurt a. M. 1910 p. 105 Tafelband pl. 
43,7 (weight 134°98 grammes). Fig. 220= Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. i. 17 pl. 10, 2 
(weight 106°594 grammes). Fig. 221 is from a specimen in the Fitzwilliam Museum 
(weight 76°15 grammes). Fig. 222=Arit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. i. 18 pl. 10, 3 
(weight 67°456 grammes). Figs. 223230 are from specimens of mine (weights 53°15, 
35°8, 18°36, 12°66, 11°64, 8°13 and 11°75, 12°69 grammes). 

4 Fig. 231 is from a specimen of mine (weight 139°65 grammes). Fig. 232 is from one 
in the Fitzwilliam Museum (weight 112°9 grammes). 

5 Figs. 233—236 are from specimens in my collection (weights 17°76, 16°14, 7°42, 3°4 
grammes). Cp. Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep.i. 18 pl. 10, 4 (weight 45°877 grammes), 
2b. i. 31 pl. 12, 10 (weight 20°412 grammes), 2. i. 54 pl. 16, 3 (weight 14°645 grammes), 
zd. i. 96 pl. 22, 4 (weight 10°692 grammes), 2d. i. 152 pl. 28, 7 (weight 7°841 grammes), 
7b. i. 300 pl. 37, 9 (weight 6°221 grammes). 

§ Figs. 237—239 are from specimens in my collection (weights 6°51, 6°15, 5°98 
grammes). 

7 H. A. Grueber in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. ii. 116 ff. See also G. F. 
Hill Historical Roman Coins London 1909 pp. 25, 35: 


Jaa 


Ianus and Jupiter on coins 


fil! 
Wy) 


I 


= 


Minty tl 


OTT 


dl 777 CET 





Ianus and Tupiter on coins 


ty Wl 


: i 
; “t, A 





ane Ianus and Jupiter on coins 













SO 


Tanus an older [upiter 335 


(@) Ianus an older Iupiter. 


But the relations subsisting between Ianus and Iupiter call for 
clearer statement and closer definition. 

Ianus was commonly recognised as the oldest god of Italy. 
Juvenal addresses Ianus Pater as ‘most ancient of the gods!’ 
Herodian speaks of him as the ‘most ancient indigenous god of 
Italy®. Prokopios says: ‘This Ianus was the first of the ancient 
gods, whom the Romans in their language termed Penatzes*” With 
regard to his essential character there was less agreement. According 
to Varro, some authorities identified him with the sky, others with 
the universe’. Varro himself appears to have shared the latter 
opinion®. But M. Valerius Messalla, consul in 53 B.C. and an augur 


of fifty-five years’ standing, began a treatise on Ianus with the fol- 
lowing words’: 


He who fashions all things and rules them too has linked together, on the 
one hand water and earth, heavy elements slipping downwards into the abyss, on 
the other hand fire and air, light elements escaping upwards into space, by 
means of the sky put round about them: thus the great potency of the sky has 
bound together two unlike forces. 


This extract, for the preservation of which we are indebted to the 
erudition of Macrobius, enables us to see how a philosophic mind 
might pass from a belief in [anus as the sky to a belief in Ianus as 
the universe’. Others equated him with the air’, or with chaos’ the 


1 Tuy. 6. 393 f. dic mihi nunc, quaeso, dic, antiquissime divum, | respondes his, Iane 
Pater ? : 

* Herodian. 1. 16. 1 céBovor 6€ Thy éopriy ‘Pwyato és Gedy adpxatdrarov Tis IraNias 
ETLXWpLoV avadepovTEs* K.T-D. 

3 Prokop. de bell. Goth. 1. 25 6 6€*Iavos otros mp&ros méev ny THV apxalwy OeGv, ods dh 
‘Pwuator yrdoon TH operépa Iévares (révares cod. K. révntas cod. L. M. KraSeninnikov 
cj. Ilevaras) éxadouv. k.T.X. 

4 Varro apf. Aug. de civ. Dei 7. 28 ut in superioribus initium fecimus a caelo, cum 
diximus de Iano, quem alii caelum, alii dixerunt esse mundum. 

5 Aug. de civ. Det7. 7 f. Cp. 2b. 7. 16 et Ianus est mundus et Iuppiter. 

8 M. Messalla af. Macrob. Sa¢. 1.9. 14. On Messalla see further M. Schanz Geschichte 
der rimischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1898 i. 397 f. 

7 See also Arnob. adv. nat. 3. 29 cited izfra p. 336 n. 10, interp. Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 
7. 610 alii lIanum mundum accipiunt, etc. 

8 Gavius Bassus af. Lyd. de mens. 4. 2 p. 65, 7 ff. Wiinsch 6 6€ T'dBios Baooos &v To 
mepl Gedy daiuova a’rov eivac voulfer Terayuévoy él Tod dépos, kal 6° avrov Tas Tar 
avOpdrwy ev’yas dvapépecbar Tots Kpelrtoow’ x.7T.\. (cp. Gavius Bassus de dis frag. 9 
Funaioli af. Macrob. Sat. 1. 9. 13), interp. Serv. 7 Verg. Aew. 7. 610 alii Ianum aerem 
credunt, etc. 

® Ov. fast. 1. 103 (quoted by Lyd. de mens. 4. 2 p. 66, 11 f. Wiinsch) me Chaos 
antiqui—nam sum res prisca—vocabant. Cp. Paul. ex Fest. p. 52, 11 ff. Miiller, p. 45, 
20 ff. Lindsay Chaos... ex eo et xdoxew Graeci, et nos hiare dicimus. unde Janus detracta 
aspiratione nominatur id, quod fuerit omnium primum; cui primo supplicabant velut 
parenti, etc. 


336 Janus an older Iupiter 


yawning void’. Others, under the influence of Orphism®, saw in him 
‘a power that controls the two Bears and sends divine souls to join 
the lunar dance’. And of course the solar mythologists of the re- 
public* and the empire® claimed him for their own. Another natural 
extension of meaning transformed the sky-god into a time-god®. He 
was god of the day’. He was god of the months’. He was god of 
the seasons®. He was god of the year He was god of eternity, 


1 Infra Append. G med. 

2 Cp. Prokl. 4. 6 (supra p. 328 n. 7). 

3 Vettius Agorius Praetextatus (who died in 384 A.D.: see M. Schanz Geschichte der 
vomischen Litteratur Miinchen 1904 iv. 1. 128f.) ap. Lyd. de mens. 4. 2 p. 65, 20 ff. 
Wiinsch 6 6€ IpairéEraros 6 iepopdvrns, 6 Dwratpw Te TH TENEoTH Kal Kavorarvtivy re 
avroxpdrwpt cuv\N\aBwv érl TO Tokicu@ Tis evdaluovos Ta’Tys Toews, Sivauwv avrov ecival 
twa Bovdr\eTat Ep’ Exatépas "ApKxrou TeTaypmevyny Kal Tas Oevorépas Wuxas él Toy ceAnviaKdy 
Xopov amoméutrety. 

4 Lutatius (Q. Lutatius Catulus, not his learned slave Lutatius Daphnis: see M. Schanz 
op. cit,” Miinchen 1898 i. 136) ap. Lyd. de mens. 4. 2 p. 65, 15 ff. Wiinsch 6 ye wiv 
Aourdrios (Hist. Rom. frag. p. 127 Peter) "H\tov rapa 76 éxarépas wins apxewv, avarod7s 
tows Kal dicews. 

5 Macrob. Saf. 1. 9. 9g Ianum quidam solem demonstrari volunt, etc., 1. 17. 42 unde 
nos quoque Ianum patrem vocamus, solem sub hac appellatione venerantes, cp. Arnob. adv. 
nat. 3. 29 cited zzfra n. 10. 

6 Nemes. cyneg. 104 Ianus, temporis auctor. Cp. zz/ra n. 8. 

7 Serv. a Verg. den. 7.607 nam alii eum diei dominum [vel auctorem] volunt, in quo 
ortus est et occasus, Myth. Vat. 3. 4. 9 a nonnullis diei dicitur deus, bifronsque propter 
ortum et occasum pingitur, 

8 Macrob, Saf. 1. g. 16 Iunonium, quasi non solum mensis Ianuarii sed mensium 
omnium ingressus tenentem; in ditione autem Iunonis sunt omnes Kalendae, unde et 
Varro libro quinto Rerum divinarum scribit Iano duodecim aras pro totidem mensibus 
dedicatas, Lyd. de mens. 4. 2 p. 65, 3 ff. Wiinsch Povr7tos (so C. Wachsmuth for ¢povr- 
thios: see further Kappelmacher in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Euc. vi. 2842, and for [anus 
on coins of the gexs Fonteta infra § 3 (a) v (0)) d€ €v T@ Tepl dyahudrwv Epopov airy olera 
Tov mavTos xpdvou Tvyxdvew, Kal Ta’Ty dwoekdBwuov elvar Tov avTod vady KaTa Tov TeV 
penvav apouorv. ; 

9 Ov. fast. 1. 125 praesideo foribus caeli cum mitibus Horis, Lucan. 5. 5 f. instabatque 
dies (sc. Jan. 1) qui dat nova nomina fastis | quique colit primus ducentem tempora 
Ianum, Serv. zz Verg. den. 7. 607 =Myth. Vat. 3. 4. 9 cited zzfra n. 10. 

10 Arnob. adv. nat. 3. 29 incipiamus ergo solemniter ab Iano et nos patre, quem 
quidam ex vobis mundum, annum alii solemve esse prodidere nonnulli, Serv. 27 Verg. 
Aen. 7. 607 alii anni totius (sc. dominum volunt), quem in quattuor tempora constat 
esse divisum. anni autem esse deum illa res probat, quod ab eo prima pars anni nomi- 
natur= Myth. Vat. 3. 4. 9 quem tamen alii totius anni dominum volunt, quem in quatuor 
tempora constat esse divisum, ideoque eundem quadrifrontem pingunt. anni autem eum 
esse dominum res illa probat, quod ab eo prima pars anni, id est Januarius nominatur. 
Cp. Plin. nat. hist. 34. 33 aut per significationem anni temporis=Lyd. de mens. 4. 1 
womep Tov éviavTdy=Souid. s.v. “lavovdpios:...womep Tov évvaurdv, Ov. fast. 1. 65 Iane 
biceps, anni tacite labentis origo, Mart. ef. 10. 28. 1 annorum nitidique sator pulcherrime 
mundi, Luxor. 506. 1 (Poet. Lat. mzn. iv. 415 Baehrens) lucifer annorum et saeclis, o Iane 
(so E. Baehrens for seclissollane cod. S. N. Heinsius cj. saeclis, Sol, Jane), secundus. 

Ausonius even uses /anz in the sense of ani (Auson. /2b. de fastis concl. 1. 7 p. 194 
Peiper tu quoque venturos per longum consere Ianos, efist. 24. 13 p- 269 Peiper vive, 
vale et totidem venturos consere Ianos, | etc.). 


Janus an older [upiter B30 


being either the father of Aion! or Aion’s very self%. Now if we 
assume—as, I think, we are justified in assuming—that Janus, like 
Iupiter’, was, to begin with, simply the divine Sky, we can under- 
stand, not only all the foregoing attempts to interpret him in terms 
of space and time, but also the very remarkable description of him as 
‘god of gods’ contained in an extant fragment of the Salian hymn‘. 


1 Lyd. de mens. 4. 1 p. 64, 6 ff. Wiinsch Aoyyivos dé Alwvdprov attov Epunvetoar Bid- 
Ferar woet Tod Aldvos marépa=Souid. s.v. "lavovdpios:...d0ev kal 0 Aoyytvos Alwydptov 
avtov épunvetoat Bidferar, woavel Al@vos marépa. Cp. Tzetz. posthom. 770 ff. dwoexdrn 
bev Env unvos Oapyndavos, | rov p’ Aiwvapioy Kukhjoxet wev Aovyivos, | lavoudproy 5’ avépes 
mavres kadéovot. On Cassius Longinus (c. 220—273 A.D.) see W. Christ Geschichte der 
griechischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1898 p. 756 ff., Sir J. E. Sandys A Hestory of Classical 
Scholarship? Cambridge 1906 i. 338 f. 

2 Lyd. de mens. 4. 1 p. 64, 12 ff. 60ev 6 MeooadGs (supra p. 335) Tovrov civar Tov 
Aldva voulger’ Kal yap éml ris wéumrns TOU knvds TovTOov (sc. Jan. 5) Eopriy Aidvos emeTedouv 
oi radar. Cp. Plin. zat. hist. 34. 33 et aevi esse deum indicent. Szra i. 192 nN. I. 

3 Supra i. 3n.2, 6n.3, 10f. See further Holk-Lore 1905 xvi. 260 ff. 

4 Varr. de ling. Lat. 7. 27 ab eadem voce canite, pro quo in Saliari versu scriptum 
est cante, hoc versu: ‘divum empta cante, divum deo supplicante.’ The line thus printed 
by G. Gotz and F. Scholl (1910) requires emendation. In the first half of it T. Bergk 
cj. em pa, E. Bahrens parentem, S. Linde /anem patrem, B. Maurenbrecher fatrem: in 
the second half Grotefend cj. swpplicate, C. O. Miiller sepplice cante. The most satis- 
factory reading is that of E. Bahrens (Poet. Lat. min. vi. 29):°diuom paréntem cante, | 
diuém deo stipplicate. Cp. Macrob. Sat. 1. g. 14 Saliorum quoque antiquissimis car- 
minibus deorum deus canitur (sc. Ianus), 1. 9. 16 cur Geminum invocemus, supra iam 
diximus: Patrem, quasi deorum deum, etc., and Paul. ex Fest. p. 52, 12 f. Miiller, p. 45, 
24 Lindsay cited supra p. 335 n. 9. 

Fortunately doubt does not extend to the words azvom deo (pace C. M. Zander Car- 
minis Saliaris religuiae Lundz 1888 p. 54 ff.), and we may take it as certain that Ianus 
was styled ‘god of gods.’ My friend Mr W. Warde Fowler, who has given us two of the 
best books in existence on the religion of Rome, comments: ‘ The phrase ‘t Deorum” or 
‘““Divum deus” is indeed remarkable, and unparalleled in Roman worship; but no one 
acquainted with Roman or Italian ritual will for a moment suspect it of meaning ‘‘ God 
of gods” in either a Christian or metaphysical sense’ (Zhe Religious Experience of the 
Roman People London 1gtt p. 140). H. Jordan Avitische Bettrige zur Geschichte der 
lateinischen Sprache Berlin 1879 p. 222 renders ‘der Gott aus der Zahl der ungezahlten 
Himmlischen,’ comparing the epic 6a @edwy [Ennius azz. frag. 51 Baehrens sancta 
dearum, Verg. Ae. 4. 576 sancte deorum]. S. Linde De Zano summo Romanorum deo 
Lundae 1891 p. 27 ff. argues that we have here acommon Indo-European phrase for ‘greatest 
of the gods’: he cites the Sanskrit locution devd deva-nam (‘god of gods’), the Old 
Persian khshdyathiya khshayathiyandm (‘king of kings’), the Greek Baoi\eds Baciiéwy, 
and such passages as Aisch. sappl. 524 ff. dvaé dvdxrwy, wakdpwr | wakdprare kal Tedéwy 
Te\\edraTov Kparos, oABte Zed, Pers. 666 déorora decrérov pavndc (sc. Dareios, master of 
our master Xerxes), 675 duvara duvara (so cod. M. with schol. av7l roo duvdera. duvdora 
dwvacra cett. M. Haupt cj. duvacra dwvacrav. S. Linde cj. dwvdra dSwarday), Plaut. capt. 
825 regum rex regalior, 7727. 309 victor victorum cluet, Hor. efzs¢. 1. 1. 107 rex denique 
regum. The fact is, these cumulative expressions are found, not merely with adjectives in 
the superlative (Soph. O. 7. 334 © kax@v xaxwote, Hor. sat. 1. 3. 136 magnorum maxime 
regum: other examples in R. Kiihner—B. Gerth Awsfiihrliche Grammatik der griechischen 
Sprache Hannover—Leipzig 1898 ii. 1. 21, 339) or even in the positive degree (Soph. 0. C. 
1237 f. a mpdravra | kaka kax@y Evvoixe?: other examples in Kiihner—Gerth Joce. cz¢z.), 
but also with substantives (O. Riemann—H. Goelzer Grammaire comparée du grec et du 


C. TL 22 


338 Janus an older Iupiter 


His title Matutinus! too acquires fresh point, and we can appreciate 
to the full the lines of Horace: 


Sire of the morning (do I call thee right, 

Or hear’st thou Janus’ name with more delight?) 
Who introducest, so the gods ordain, 

Life’s various tasks, inaugurate my strain. 


Moreover, the Roman conception of Ianus thus falls into line with 
that of the Etruscans, who, as Varro admits’, took him to be the 
sky pure and simple. Finally, this view of Ianus is borne out by’ 
the most probable etymology of his name. Corresponding with 


the series 
Diviana Diana® Lana’ 


Jatin Syntax Paris 1897 p. 123 n. 5 quote Eur. Andr. 520 ff. Kal yap dvoia | ueyadn 
Nelrewy ExOpovs éxOpHv, | éEdv xrelvew [Plat. Zim. 41 A Beol OeGy, wy éyw Snucoupyos Tarp 
Te €pywv, on which I have said my say in 7he Metaphysical Basis of Plato’s Ethics Cam- 
bridge 1895 p. 92 ff.]). If Ianus was the animate Sky, there was special justification for 
the phrase: the living abode of all celestial beings might well be termed dévum deus. 

1 The epithet is transferred from Ianus to Iupiter, or rather to Domitian occupying 
the place of Iupiter (see Folk-Lore 1905 xvi. 314), by Mart. cf. 4. 8. 11 f. gressu timet 
ire licenti | ad matutinum nostra Thalia Iovem. There is, of course, a connotation of 
sobriety and seriousness, cp. Mart. ef. 13. 2. 10. 

2 Hor. saz. 2. 6. 20 ff. 

3 Varro frag. 134 Funaioli ap. Lyd. de mens. 4. 2 p. 64, 18 ff. Wiinsch 6 6¢ Bdppwy év 
TH Tecoaperkadenary Ta Oelwy mpayudrwy pyolv adrov (sc. Tov "lavdv) mapa SovcKors 
ovpavov NéyecOar kai Epopov mdons mpatews kal Mordvwva (rorawva cod. B.) dua To év rats 
Kanévoas avapéper Oar rorava. 

W. Deecke Ztruskische Forschungen Stuttgart 1880 iv. 24 ff. identified the az of the 
first marginal region marked on the bronze liver found near Piacenza in 1877 (7d. pl. 1) 
with the Zazuws mentioned among the deities of the first region (2d. pl. 5) by Mart. Cap. 
45—an identification corroborated by the equivalence of zz¢ in the second marginal region 
of the liver (7d. pl. 5) to Zo among the deities of the second region (2d. pl. 5) in Mart. 
Cap. 46. Deecke (24. p. 25 n. 22 a) further observed the occurrence of the name in 
A. Fabretti Corpus inscriptionum TLtalicarum Aug. Taurinorum 1867 no. 2279, 3 pl. 42 


ICSU T : [AA =ani : tineri, where Ianus (ani) is associated with Iupiter (¢a), and in 


the same connexion cited, not only Plutarch’s derivation of the river ’Avvlwy (the A770) 
from an Etruscan king ”Avvios, the father of Dada mother of Dadvos the eponym of the 
Saliz (Aristeides of Miletos frag. 8 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 322 Miiller) and Alexander 
Polyhistor frag. 26 (Frag. hist. Gr. ili. 230 Miiller) ag. Plout. parall. Gr. et Rom. 40), 
but also the Etruscan gentile name azz, ane, ante, anete, anet (C. O. Miiller Die Etrusker 
Stuttgart 1877 ii. 470 ff.) and the Latin Azzuws, later Annzus (see now E. Klebs in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2261). C. Thulin Die Gotter des Martianus Capella und der 
Bronzeleber von Piacenza Gieszen 1906 p. 22 f. in the main accepts Deecke’s results, and 
adds: ‘‘ Anlautendes j fallt im Etruskischen, mit Ausnahme des volaterranischen Dia- 
lektes, ab”’ (Pauli, Bezz. Beitr. xxv 1899, S. 218); beibehalten ist es z. B. in der Inschrift 
Not. d. Scav. 1892 S. 261 ..iane.., wo vielleicht auch der Gott gemeint ist.’ 

Perhaps the puzzling Azdzgemius of Orelli—Henzen Zuser. Lat. sel. no. 5771 = Corp. 
inscr. Lat. iii no. 5157 (Noricum) genio | Anigemio | cultores | eius | v. s. 1. m. should 
be regarded as an Etruscan form of the Ianus Gemzinus worshipped in the same district 
(Corp. inscr. Lat. iii no. 5092 a (Noricum), supra p. 324 Nn. 3). 

4 Varr. de ling. Lat. 5.68 hance ut Solem Apollinem quidam Dianam vocant; Apol- 
linis vocabulum graecum [alterum], alterum latinum et hine quod luna in altitudinem et 


Janus an older Iupiter 339 


we have the series 


* Divianus Dianus? Lanus. 


latitudinem simul e<a>t (so C. Schoppe for e¢), Diviana, appellata.. Cp. Varr. frag. 103 
Funaioli af. Prob. zz Verg. ec/. 6. 31 p. 354f. Lion Varro etiam in Logistorico, quem 
inscripsit Mesalla de valitudine (/eg. Messalla de valetudine), ait: ‘antiquos agrestes 
venandi peritos, cum plurimum in silvis agerent, quod veluti Diana duce ad investigandas 
feras solas et devias silvas peterent, Devianam appellasse deam, mox Dianam, quod in- 
tellegerent eandem esse, quae diem nascentibus daret,’ Isid. ovzg. 8. 11. 56 Dianam autem 
vocatam quasi Duanam, quod luna die ac noctu appareat= Myth. Vat. 1.112 Diana etiam 
eadem est, quasi Duana, quia luna et die et nocte appareat. 

F. Solmsen Steudien zur lateinischen Lautgeschichte Strassburg 1894 p. 112 notes that 
Diviana as the oldest form of Dzanza is supported by W. Deecke’s interpretation of Z7zv 
as an Etrusco-Roman moon-goddess (in Roscher Zex. AZyth. i. 1011). [On the convex 
side of the Piacenza liver are the inscriptions zsz/s=‘solis’ and ¢¢vs=‘lunae’: see further 
W. Deecke Ztruskische Forschungen Stuttgart 1880 pp. 7 ff, 82, C. Thulin Dze Gétter 
des Martianus Capella und der Bronzeleber von Piacenza Gieszen 1906 p. 15.] 

5 G. Wissowa in Pauly—Wissowa Aeal-Enc. v. 325 f. shows that this form of the name 
was pronounced first Diana (Plaut. Bacch. 312, Ennius azz. frag. 79 Baehrens, Adcmeo 
frag. 3, 7 Ribbeck®, [Verg. den. 1. 499 with Serv. zz Verg. Ae. 1. 498 sane Dianam 
veteres ideo melius producebant, quia sub divo dea sit, venandi gratia]}), then Dzaza (the 
oldest example of this, the usual, scansion is Lucil. sat. 3 frag. 72, 3 Baehrens) or Deana 
(in vulgar inscriptions of imperial date: e.g. Dessau Zuscr. Lat. sel. nos. 111, 1, 3184, 9, 
3244, I, 3265, I, 3276, I, 3430, II, 3536, 6, 3915, 2, 4045, I, 4281, 2, 7099, 1, 8065, 3, 
8745 (menologium rusticum Colotianum) ds (Aug. and Nov.), 9241, 1). . 

6 P. Nigidius Figulus (c. 98-45 B.C.) identified Ianus with Apollo and Jana with 
Diana (frag. 42 Funaioli ag. Macrob. Sa¢. 1. 9. 8 pronuntiavit Nigidius Apollinem Ianum 
esse Dianamque Ianam, adposita d littera, quae saepe z litterae causa decoris adponitur, 
veditur redhibetur redintegratur et similia). And M. Terentius Varro, his contemporary 
(116—27 B.C.), represented the country folk as speaking of Zaza, when they meant ‘the 
moon’ (Varr. 7ev. rast. 1. 37. 3 Tremelius, Numquam rure audisti, inquit, octavo Ianam 
(so G. Merula in the ed. princ. 1472, for /azanz) lunam et crescentem et contra senes- 
centem, et quae crescente luna fieri oporteret, [et] tamen quaedam melius fieri post 
octavum (so H. Keil for octawo) Ianam (so G. Merula for /azam) lunam quam ante ?). 
Tertullian (c. 150—c. 230 A.D.) mentions Jana as a goddess of arches (Tert. ad nat. 2. 15 
et diva Arquis est Iana (so D. Godefroy for /aza cod.)). Orosius (417-418 A.D.) speaks 
of the Dianium on the Aventine as /aniwm (Oros. hist. 5. 12. 6 Flaccus duobus filiis 
armatis cinctus, comitante etiam Graccho togato brevemque gladium sub sinistra occultante, 
quamvis et praeconem frustra praemisisset, qui servos ad libertatem vocaret, Ianium 
(KX. Zangemeister cj. Dzanzium) tamquam arcem occupavit). 

G. Wissowa in Pauly—Wissowa feal-Enc. v. 326 and in his Rel. Kult. Rim.” 
p- 247 n. 2 is hyper-sceptical. 

1 Supra p. 328n. 5. The quantity of the z in Dianus is unknown. 

The word occurs as a cognomen in Corp. inscr. Lat. vi no. 730= Dessau Luscr. Lat. sel. 
no. 42141 (Rome) deo Soli invicto | Mytrae, felix Messala, | cum omnes sacratos, Catel|lus 
et Dianus posuerunt. Cp. L. A. Muratori Movus thesaurus veterum inscriptionum Medio- 
lani 1740 iii. 1666 no. 14 P. Diani (=Dianius) P. f. | Fab. Nig. | ossa, Wilmanns 2x. 
inser. Lat. no. 341 (Rome) M. Perperna | Aeschinus | emit ol. iii de Diani (= Dianii ?) 
Erote, Corp. zscr. Lat. xi no. 2089=Dessau Jnscr. Lat. sel. no. 1296 (near Perugia) 
Memmius Sallustius | Salvinus Dianius v(ir) s(pectabilis) | basilicam sanctorum | angelo- 
rum fecit, in | qua sepelliri non licet. 

Ducange Gloss. med. et inf. Lat. ed. 1884 iii. 99 cites Vita S. Cesar. Arelat. apud 
Surium: ‘Deemonium, quod rustici Dianum vocant.’ But the Vz¢a as printed by L. Surius 
, De probatis sanctorum héstortiis Coloniae Agrippinae 1579 iv. 943—953 contains no such 


faa 


34.0 Zan an older Zeus 


lanus, therefore, can be legitimately connected with dzus (for diuzos), 
a word familiar to us in the phrase swé d7o1, ‘under the open sky*. 


(cv) Zan an older Zeus. 


In short, I conceive that Ianus and [upiter were the sky-gods 
worshipped by two successive strata in the population of Italy. 
Ianus, it would appear, belonged to the older stock*—which, for want 


passage. The reference should be corrected to the Acta Sanctorum edd. Bolland. Augusti 
vi. 79 (Vita 2. 2. 15) Quodam alio tempore, dum dioceses visitaret, & ad castellum quod 
Luco [le Luc, castrum dicecesis Forujuliensis ad Carauniam fluviolum, zxguz¢t Mabillonius| 
dicitur, venimus ; erat ibi matrona queedam Eucheria (a/. Euthyria) nomine, que ancillam 
suam offerens ante pedes ejus prostravit: pro qua ut Domino supplicaret, lacrymabiliter 
exorabat. Ille autem causam perscrutans, ut erat Vir Deo plenus, & in omnibus per- 
scrutantissimus, quid infirmitatis haberet, interrogavit. Dixerunt: Daemonium, quod 
rustici Dianam appellant: que sic affligitur, ut pane omnibus noctibus assidue czedatur, 
& seepe etiam in ecclesiam ducitur inter duos viros ut maneat: & sic flagris diabolicis 
occulté fatigatur, ut vox continua ipsius audiatur; & eis, qui sibi adhzerent, respondere 
penitus non possit. Etc. The Bollandists had the story from J. Mabillon Acta Sanctorum 
ordinis s. Benedicti® Venetiis 1733 Saec. i Append. pp. 659—677. But Mabillon of. c7z. 
’ Lutetize Parisiorum 1668 i. 673 (Vita 2. 14) reads ‘ DIANAM.’ 

1 On sub did, sub ditt, sub divd see F. Solmsen Studien zur lateinischen Lautgeschichte 
Strassburg 1894 p. 113 f., who concludes that the original form sé dio (from dium) 
became szb dz under the influence of diz (‘by day’) and sab divd under that of divos 
(just as szbdialis passed into subdivalis). 

2 Walde Lat. etym. Worterb.* p. 374 advocates a very different derivation: ‘Janus 
‘‘altitalischer Gott des Sonnenlaufs.”... Jams ist trotz Dzdnus C. J. L. v, 783 die 
ursprgl. Form (s. Stolz HG. 1, 305), wahrend_/aza ‘‘ Mondgottin” allerdings nur vulgare 
Entstellung aus Diana ist (Wissowa Rel. 198 a 6). Janus (o- und z-St.) ist nach Wissowa 
N. Jbb. 1, 164, Schulze Eigenn. 474 f. ‘‘der personifizierte Torbogen,” *7a720s, wovon 
janitor “ Pfortner” direkt, dagegen janua “ Tiir” durch Vermittlung des Gottesnamens 
abgeleitet ist, als die Statte seines gottlichen Wirkens. */amos zu ai. yana-h “ Bahn,” 
yana-m “ Gang, Vehikel,”... Idg. *i-a- ist Erweiterung von *ei- “gehn” (s. eo; eine 
parallele Erweiterung *ié-/i6- méglicherweise in got. 7ér ‘‘ Jahr”’ usw., s. hormus).’ 

My friend Dr P. Giles, Master of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, tells me (Dec. 14, 
1917) that in his opinion the view given in the text is right. If so, Walde is here for once 
on the wrong tack, 

3 My friend and colleague Sir W. Ridgeway in The Early Age of Greece Cambridge 
Igo 1. 231 ff., in his paper Who were the Romans? (extr. from the Proceedings of the 
British Academy iii) London 1907 p. 1 ff., and in Sir J. E.Sandys 4 Companion to Latin 
Studies* Cambridge 1913 p. 20 ff. argues that the main aboriginal element in the popula- 
tion of upper and central Italy was formed by the Ligurians, who were closely related on 
the one hand to the Illyrians, on the other to the Iberians, and spoke a language destined 
to develope into classical Latin ; also, that these Ligurians were conquered by the Sabines, 
an Umbro-Sabellian tribe, who were closely related to the Keltoi and represented the 
Indo-Europaean Q, not by C or Q, but by P; finally, that at Rome the plebeians were 
Ligurians, the patricians Sabines, the latter having adopted the language of the former. 
In accordance with these views Sir W. Ridgeway Who were the Romans? p. 11 f. asserts : 
(rt) that Ianus was a Sabine god, whose worship was introduced to Rome by Numa the 
Sabine (Varr. de ling, Lat. 5. 165, Liv. 1. 19); (2) that his priest was originally the 
flamen Dialis, whose title Dza-lis betrays his connexion with Dza-nus (anus); and 
(3) that his cult was partially fused with that of Iupiter, ‘who was already in possession 
of Rome,’ the fusion being perhaps symbolised by the double male face of Janus. 


Zan an older Zeus 341 


of a better name, I should term Illyrian'—and was retained by the 
incoming Latins, despite the fact that their own Iupiter was a god 
of essentially similar character. Further, I should be prepared to 
find that, corresponding with Dianus (Ianus) and Diana (lana) 
the ancient sky-god and ‘his consort of the Italian peninsula, there 
was a similar divine pair of kindred origin on the opposite side of 
the Adriatic. And here we are struck by the fact that the name 
Dianus (Ianus) occurs both as an o-stem (/anus) and as an z-stem 
(Jan)? in the Salian hymn. In our search for a Greek equivalent we 
naturally turn to the scanty remains of Doric literature and to Doric 
inscriptions, coins, etc., since the Dorians, as Sir W. Ridgeway 
rightly insists, were ad orzgzne an Illyrian tribe’. Now the phonetic 
counterpart of the Salian Jaz is Zan, which R. Meister‘ has proved 
to be no hyperdorism for Zéz* but a genuine Doric form attested 
by all dialect-sources®’. Janus or Jan was equated with Zdu by 


I am not here concerned to controvert the main lines of Sir W. Ridgeway’s ethnology 
(which, however, I do not accept), but merely its application to the particular case of 
Ianus. To his contentions I reply :—(1) Neither Varro nor Livy states that Ianus was.a 
Sabine god, whose worship was introduced by Numa. What Varro (or rather L. Calpurnius 
Piso Frugi frag. 9 Peter ap. Varr. de ling. Lat. 5. 165) and Livy (1. 19) say is that Numa 
introduced the custom of keeping the gate of Ianus always open in war-time—a very 
different matter. (2) Our most competent etymologist, Walde Zat. etym. Worterb.” 
p- 231, refers Dials, not to Dzdnws, but to Diéspiter, the old nominative of /zpzter, and 
cites convincingly the forms aegez-didlis, noven-dialis. (3) If the double face of Ianus 
implies the fusion of two gods, are we to explain in the same way the double face of 
Hermes? of Boreas? of Argos? and of all other Janiform deities from Babylonia to 
Britain? And what of deities with three heads, or four? We must obviously rest our case 
on some more comprehensive principle. 

1 See now the succinct and well-documented account of G. Dottin Les ancéens peuples 
de l’ Europe Paris 1916 pp. 151—156 (‘ Les Illyriens’). 

2 For the nom. Jam see supra p. 328 n. 8 (g) and (10). The abl. /aze is specially 
noticed by Tertull. ad mat. 2. 12 (Saturnus) exceptus ab Iano sive Iane, ut Salii vocant 
=id. apol. to (Saturnus) exceptus a Iano, vel Iane, ut Salii volunt (carmen Saliare 
frag. 12 Baehrens). 

’ Sir W. Ridgeway ‘ Who were the Dorians?’ in Anthropological Essays presented to 
Edward Burnett Tylor Oxford 1907 pp. 295—308. See too C. H. Hawes ‘Some Dorian 
descendants?’ in the Azz. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1909—1910 xvi. 258—280. 

4 R. Meister ‘iiber die Namen: “‘ Auévy, Ziv, Lav”? in the Ber. sachs. Gesellsch. d. 
Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1894 pp. 199—202. 

5 G. Meyer Griechische Grammatik® Leipzig 1896 p. 420 f., E. Boisacq Les dialectes 
doriens Paris—Liége 1891 pp. 44, 152 f., zd. Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 308, H. 
Ehrlich Zur indogermanischen Sprachgeschichte Konigsberg 19 to p. 42 f., K. Brugmann— 
A. Thumb Griechische Grammatik* Miinchen 1913 p. 260 n. I. 

6 It will be convenient here to collect the evidence, which can be adduced for Zav, 
Zavos, k.T.d.: 

Nom. sing. Zdv Aristoph. av. 570 Bpovrdrw viv 6 uéyas Zav (cp. Eustath. zz Z/. p. 436, 
17 f. duolws 6¢ kal Lav Lavos xara 7d ‘‘ Bpovrdtw péyas Lav”), Anth. 
Pal. 7. 746 (Pythagoras) woe péyas xetrar Zdv (fav A.Lo. fav PIM), dv 
Aia xuc\joKovow (to the variants given supra i. 158 n. 2 add Chrysost. 
hom. 3.1 (lxii. 676 Migne) évrad0a Zav ketrat, dv Ala kexNjoKovor, Cramer 


342 


Dddy (?) 


Aav 


Acc. sing. Zava 


Tava (?) 


Gen. sing. Zavés 


Zan an older Zeus 


aneca. Paris. ii. 236, 18 f. évOade xardkerrar Pav Iikos 6 kal Zevs, dv 
kal Ala xadodor, Chronicon Paschale 44 (i. 80 Dindorf) évOdde ketrax 
Oavew Iikos 6 cal Ze’s, dv cal Aia kadovow, and the remarkable line 
added in the margin of Ath. Pal. 7.746 by Ly x Gbe peyac Keirar Bodo 
dv dia KikAHoKover), Hesych. Zav (so W. Dindorf for Zav cod.): Zevs. 
in an Eteocretan inscription, in Ionic lettering of the beginning of s. iv 
B.C., found by R. C. Bosanquet in June 1904 on the altar-hill of Praisos 
(R. S. Conway ‘A Third Eteocretan Fragment’ in the 42x, Brit. Sch. 
Ath. 1903—1904 x. 117 line 8 =|PEP®INSAAN, 22. p. 122 ‘-pzx 
looks like the same Homeric case-sufhx ; if so, the following sdaz might 
be some case of the name of Zazzs or Diana,—if initial dz- was treated 
in Eteocretan as in Greek’). The importance of this fragment was 
pointed out to me by Mr J. Whatmough. 

on coins of Hierapytna and Polyrhenion (sara i. 149 n. 1 figs. 113, 
114, 1. 655 n. 2). Cp. schol. Bern. Lucan. 8. 872 mentiuntur Cretenses, 
sicut de aliis conpluribus, ita de Iove, eum apud se et defunctum esse 
et sepultum, adque in fidem mendacii ostendunt tumulum et lapidem sub 
hac inscriptione TAN: KPONO-Y (H. Usenercj. ZAN-KPONOY) 
[id est Iuppiter Saturni]. 

in Boiotia (Herodian. epi wovnpous NéEews 6, 16 (ii. gt1, g Lentz) 
=Eustath. zz Od. p. 1387, 29, cp. 7 Zl. p. 114, 4, all cited infra 
P- 344 0- 0). 

Kallim. frag. 86, 2 Schneider ag. Plout. de plac. phil. 1.7 Tov madae 
xadxeov (R. Bentley, followed by O. Schneider, cj. Iayxatov) 6 mdcas 
Zava (sc. Euhemeros) and schol. 27 Tzetz. alleg. //. 4 in Cramer avecd. 
Oxon. iii. 380, 15 f. Tov raat XaAKELoY 6 TAaGas fava (sic)= P. Matranga - 
Anecdota Graeca Romae 1850 ii. 609, 11 Tov mddaL XAAKLOV 6 TAdoaS 
Lava, Anth. Pal. g. 58. 2 (Antipatros) «al rov ém’ ’AdApew Zava 
(fava P. Zfva Pl.) karnvyacdpuny. 

Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no. 2555, 11 f. (Hierapytna) OMNYOTAN 
ESTIANKAITANAOPATPIONKAHINA | AIKTAIONKAI 
HPAN=6urdw ray ‘Eorlay cal Tava ’Oparpioy xa(i Ta)va | Accratov 
kai "Hpay. But F. Blass in Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Zuschr. iii. 2. 
311 f. no. 5039, 11 f. reads éuviw Trav ‘Eoriav cat Tava ’Opdrpiov Kal 
Tva | Acxratov kat “Hpay, cp. P. Deiters in the Rhez. Mus. 1901 lvi. 
587—595 (the text is known from transcripts only: cod. Vatic. 1759 
and cod. Lat. Monac. 743 kal trav dopdrpioy (dopdriov Vatic. 1759) 
KAntda kal Acxratov, cod. Ambros. D 436 KAl [HNA OPATPION 
KT*ANI or KATHI, the schedae Ursini as printed in the Appendix 
of A. Augustinus De legzbus et senatus consultes Paris 1584 kal rhv 
dopdrprov KAAENI, the schedae Ursinias given by Gruter Zuscr. ant. 
tot. orb. Rom. ii. 503 no. 2 KAL- TON: AOPATPION : KAAENI 
(KATINI. Urs. sch.) AUKTAION.). 

Eur. Hipp. 62 Zavos yéveOXov (sc. Artemis), 69 Zavos (so C. G. Cobet, 
A. Nauck, W. Dindorf, though codd. M.V.P. and Eustath. zz Z/. 
p- 436, 28 read Znvés) moNUxpugov otxov, Cretes frag. 472, 1 f. Nauck? 
réxvov Hipwmas | kal Tob meyddov Zavés (sc. Minos: seprai. 648 n. 1), 
Philoxenos of Kythera frag. 3, 10f. Bergk4, 3, 10 f. Hiller—Crusius, 
ap. Athen. 643 B a Zavés (so J. Schweighiuser for adfavés) kadéovre 
(so most Mss. xadéovro B. A. Meineke cj. xadedyre) | tpdyuar’ (so 
A.B. rpwypyara P.V.L.), Lykan (gets?) frag. mel. adesp. 30 Hiller— 
Crusius af. Herodian. epi kNlicews évoudrwy 23 (ii. 642, 17 f. Lentz) 
KNOOL ror Zavés Te Kobpyn, Kerkidas of Megalopolis or Crete (?) frag. 2, 
5 f. Hiller—Crusius ap. Diog. Laert. 6. 77 7s yap addabéws | Acoyévns 


Dat. sing. Zavé 


Nom. plur. Zdves 


Acc. plur. Zavas 


Cp. also Zavides 


Zavwvos 


Zan an older Zeus 343 


Zavos yévos ovpdvids te kiwy, Aristot. frag. 199 Rose Zavds mipyov 
(cp. Prokl. zz Plat. Zim. i. 199, 3 Diehl 6 Zavds rupyos, ii. 106, 22 
Diehl Zavos ripyov } Lavds pudaxyy : supra i. 303 n. 6), Theokr. 7. 93 
Znvos (so codd. k. 9. Zavds vulg.) émi Apdvov, 18. 19 Zavds rou Ovyarnp 
(sc. Helene), ef. 20. 1 rov 7 (so G. H. Schaefer for rod) Zavds (¢avos c.) 
...ulév (sc. Herakles), Anth. Pal. 6. 219. 10 (Antipatros) Zavds (fnvoc 
A®- Pl.) éhacrpndels yuoraye? vipadds (cited by Souid. and Zonar. /ex. 
5.U. €hacTpnGels, also by Cramer anecd. Oxon. iv. 215, 27 f.), 13. 10. 2 
(Kallimachos) mori te Zavds (so R. Bentley for (vos) ixveduar Ayuevo- 
oxorw (Kallim. frag. 114 Schneider), Corp. znuscr. Att. iii. 1 no. 492 
[Z]avo[s|’E]AevGepifov?]|«.7.X. (sc. Hadrian : supra p. 97f. n. 0), Loukian. 
tragoedopod. gt ff. rav & ’Qkeavot mapa mayaits | Zavds (so J. Gavel for 
Znvos) mwapdkorrw ’Odvurlou | NevKddNevov etpéoe Kddrors | “Hpav éri- 
Onvatro Tnbus. : 

Lykan (gus?) frag. mel. adesp. 31 Hiller—Crusius af. Herodian. rept 
kNigews dvoudtwv 23 (ii.642, 17 f. Lentz) Zavi 7’ éXevdeplw, cp. archaising 
inscriptions from Sparta addressed to Antoninus Pius as Zavt ’E)ev- 
Oepion “Avrwveivor Lwrhpt-(sepra p. 101 n. 1), Anth. Pal. 6. 221. 9 f. 
(Leonidas) of & dmabets epyov 745’ éEvypades axpodopirg | Zari (J. G. 
Schneider cj. Tavi. H. Stadtmiiller cj. Zyvi on account of 11 elaro 
cwripa Liv’ émckex\ouevor), 9. 577. 3 f. (Ptolemaios) map’ air@ | Zari 
(Znvi Medic.) Oeorpepéos (so W. Dindorf for Georpodins cod. Geotpopéos 
Medic. dvorpepéos Pl. dtorpopéos Synes. ad Pacon. 311 D), 12. 66. 2 
(anonymous) Zavi yap od udxouat, 14. 123. 14 (Metrodoros) péfere & 
Ovdalw Lavi (sc. Plouton) OuynroNmy, an epigram in Diod. rr. 14 (quoted 
supra Pp. 231 N. 7). ; 

Paus. 5. 21. 2 mpos d€ TH Kpynmide dyd\uara Atos avdKerrae xaNka.... 
KaNobvTar 6€¢ b1rd Tay Erixwpiwy Zaves (faves with 7 over & Pa.). 
Macrob. Sa. 3. 7- 6 ff. veteres nullum animal sacrum in finibus suis 
esse patiebantur, sed abigebant ad fines deorum quibus sacrum esset : 
animas vero sacratorum hominum, quos Zanas Graeci (zanzas Graect 
A. B.G.P. M1.2.3. P5.6.7. (P2. has zazaz with s aboveit. S. hasa 
lacuna before Graeci) (wavas Graeci vi. Graect fwdvasc—b. L. Caelius 
Rhodiginus Lectionum antiguarum 12. tt (ed. 1599 (Hanovie) p. 546 f.) 
cj. foavas (for E6ava!). F. Liebrecht in Phzlologus 1865 xxii. 709 f. cj. 
fwyavas, cp. Athen. 639 Cc, Dion Chrys. ov. 4 p. 161 f. Reiske. L. Jan 
ad loc. cj. dvabnuata. J. Bernays in Hermes 1875 ix. 127 f. kept zanas, 
but thought that Macrobius had misconceived the meaning of the 
Zdnes at Olympia. See further Class. Rev. 1903 xvii. 412, Folk-Lore 
1904 xv. 304.) vocant, dis debitas aestimabant. quemadmodum igitur 
quod sacrum ad deos ipsos mitti non poterat a se tamen dimittere non 
dubitabant, sic animas, quas sacras in caelum mitti posse arbitrati sunt 
(cp. the function of Ianus supra p. 336 n. 3), viduatas corpore quam 
primum ire illo voluerunt. disputat de hoc more etiam Trebatius 
religionum libro nono (on C. Trebatius Testa v7de M. Schanz Geschichte 
der rémischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1898 i. 395), cuius exemplum, ne 
sim prolixus, omisi. cui cordi est legere, satis habeat et auctorem et 
voluminis ordinem esse monstratum. 

Hesych. Zavides: jyewovides. J. Alberti ad loc. thought of Zaviddes, 
‘daughters of Zeus’ (cp. ‘H\rddes x.7.d.), or Zavirides. M. Schmidt 
ad loc. cj. Ziravides=Tiravides (?). But, if Hadrian was called Zavés 
and Antoninus Pius Zavi, Roman empresses in general may well have 
been dubbed Zavides by some time-serving poetaster. 

inser. Gr. ins. i no. 1307, 3—6=Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Zuschr. 
iii. 1. 617 no. 4245, 403 on amphora-handles from Rhodes Zdvwvos. 


344 Zan an older Zeus 


A. F.* Pott (1833)), H.. L. Ahrens (1843)?, G., Legerlotz (1658)*, 
C. Petersen (1870)4, H. Usener (1900)*; and the equation has not 
been successfully challenged by any later critic. The cult of Zan 
can be traced most clearly in Crete, where he bore the title J/égas, 
‘the Great’ Zan,—a natura] appellative of the sky-god. Thus 
Euripides in his Cretans speaks of Minos as 

‘ Child of Europa and of Zan the Great®’ 


Aristophanes appears to be poking fun at the same Euripidean play, 
when in his Bzrds he makes Euelpides ejaculate : 
‘So now let him thunder, Zan the Great? !’ 


According to the Greek grammarians, Zav was used by the later Aeolians and by the 
later Ionians : Herodian. rept wovjpous NéEews 6, 14 ff. (il. grt, 7 ff. Lentz) b7¢ 6€ rokidws 
elpntar bro madaayv 6 Beds ovK ayvod. Kal yap Als cal Zny cat Any kal Zas (so K. Lehrs 
for Ze’s. He further suggests inserting cal Zay, cp. Aristoph. av. 570), kal Zns mapa 
Pepexvder (so K. Lehrs for Pepexvdn) xara xtynow ldiav, cal (so K. Lehrs for kiwnow twa) 
td Bowrav cai Ae’s kal Aav=Eustath. zz Od. p. 1387, 27 ff. kal dre moddais ebOelats 
mapa Tots maaots mouxtANera. Als yap, ov yevixn Ards: kal Znv xal Lav xai Zas xal Zs 
mapa Pepextdy kal Bowrikas Zevs (H. L. Ahrens cj. Aets) cal Ady, cp. Eustath. zz Z/. 
p- 114, 3 ff. cuvnbéorepov yap 6 Leds 4 wep 6 Lav kat 6 Lv Kal o Ais kat 6 Ady kal 6ou dda 
KelvTaL Tapa Tw Tada Texvikw@ (sc. Herodian.), Herodian. epi xafoduxyjs mpotwdias 14 
(i. 394, 26 ff. Lentz) Ady (so C. A, Lobeck for”Av)* otrws (so A. Lentz for xijprov) elpnrac 
tro Bowray 6 Levs (so A. Lentz cp. Herodian. rept wovjpous NéEews 6, 17 cited supra), 
Zav (added by A. Lentz from Eustath. 27 Od. p. 1387, 28, 2 Z/. p. 114, 3 cited sepra and 
from Cramer anecd. Oxon. iii. 237, 26 cited zzfra)* otrw yap elpnrar 6 Beds brd Tay 
merayeveotépwr AloNGv: kal ere of werayevéorepor “Iwves dia Tod a Zav duolws ro AvKave 
“KOOL wor Lavds re xovpn Lavi r’ édevbepiw,” Herodian. rept xdicews dvoudrwr 3 (ii. 642, 
13 ff. Lentz)=I.A.C. ‘Anecdota Barocciana’ in Zhe Philological Museum Cambridge 
1833 ii. 413 =Cramer anecad. Oxon. iil. 237, 23 ff. loréov bre Tod Zjv Znvds épidrakay oi 
tanaol "Ilwves tHy KAlow olov ‘‘ érel & loxe Lnvos bynpédns Sbuos Sdpyns” (J. A. Cramer cj. 
emel 5 icxe Lnvos vwnpepéor (or bYnpedéar) Sduov “Apns—a faulty hexameter. T. Bergk# 
Jrag. adesp. 78 cj. éwl & iaxe | Znvos bwepepys Sdmos | faxpecés, cp. Nik. cher. 290): 
peraryevéorepor Aiodel’s érpeway Zavds cal Zdv: Kal ére perayevéorepa oi “Iwves dua rod 
a (A. Lentz added this a) Zav ouwotws (H. L. Ahrens inserted this duolws) 7@ AvKave 
(so A. Lentz for Avcavt) ‘‘kNO0i wor Zavds re Kovpn Lavi 7 édevdepiw”’ (so H. L. Ahrens 
for kOe uot Zavds re Kovpyneavredevbepw cod. But see supra s.vv. Zaves, Lavi). mad 
a&mopov ras map’ "lwo ro 7 els a (so H. L. Ahrens for 76 a els 9) rérpamrac: ro évayriov 7d 
a els 4 Tpémovct, TO yap (A. Lentz inserts here the yap which in the Ms. stands between 
To and évavriov) Zavés Znvds eipnxacc: Néyw 47 Bre ovK erpewav, GAN’ EutunoavTo mera- 
yeveorépous AioNets. 

1 A. F. Pott Ztymologische Forschungen auf dem Gebiet der indogermanischen Sprachen 
Lemgo 1833 i. 99. 

2 H. L. Ahrens De dialecto Dorica Gottingae 1843 p. 139. 

3 G. Legerlotz ‘Die wurzel dv oder dyu (brennen, leuchten) im griechischen’ in the 
Zeitschrift fiir vergleichende Sprachforschung 1858 vil. 290—310, especially p. 300. 
A. Kuhn ‘Zevs, Znv-, Jan-us’ 2d. 1858 vii. 79 f. and H. Grassmann 2d. 1862 xi. 8 related 
Lanus to Zén. 

4 C. Petersen Das Zwilfgittersystem Berlin 1870 p. 68. 

° H. Usener ‘ Zwillingsbildung’ in the Strena Helbigiana Lipsiae 1900 p. 321 (=7d. 
Kieine Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 1913 iv. 341). 

6 Eur. Cretes frag. 472, 1 f. Nauck? (supra p. 342 s.v. Zavées). 

7? Aristoph. av. 570 (supra p. 341 n. 6 5.v. Zar). 


Zan an older Zeus B45 


Again, the famous tomb in Crete was inscribed with an epitaph 
which, according to the best attested version, ran : 
‘Here lies Great Zan, whom men call Zeus!’ 


Ifthe cult of the Cretan Zeus resembled that of Adonis or Tammuz? 
and in historical times involved an annual festival, at which the 
god was killed and eaten in the form of a bull*, there is point in 
the curious variant of his epitaph : 
‘Here lies a Great Ox, whom men call Zeus?#,’ 

The votaries of the Cretan Zeus actually ate of the Great Ox as 
part of their mystic rites. When, therefore, the watchman in the 
Agamemnon exclaims— 


‘For the rest I’m silent : a Great Ox hath come 
Upon my tongue’®,’ 
he was, I take it, simply repeating a formu/a‘ of the Cretan mysteries 
that had passed into a proverb for sworn secrecy. 


1 Anth. Pal. 7. 746 Pythagoras (supra p. 341 n.6 s.v. Zav)=Kyrill. Al. c. Zulian. 
10. 342 (Ixxvi. 1028 Migne) woe wéyas Ketrae Lav (deg. Lav) dv Ala xexdjoxovow. 

2 Supra i. 645 f. 3 Supra i. 651 ff., 659 ff., 675, cp. i. 468 n. 8. 

4 "Ode wéyas Ketrar Bods, dv Ala kuxAjoKovar (supra p. 341 n. 6 s.v. Zdv). 

° Aisch. Ag. 36f. ra & dda ovy@: Bods éml yAdoon wéyas | BEBnxev. The current 
explanations are, as every scholar knows, unsatisfactory. See A. Sidgwick, A. W. Verrall, 
F. H. M. Blaydes, W. Headlam, etc. ad loc. Cp. Menand. aXets frag. 1 (Frag. com. Gr. 
iv. 74 Meineke) ag. Athen. 549 c maxds yap ts exert’ éwi ordua. 

® I seize this opportunity of attempting to explain another mystic formula, which has 
come down to us in two versions : 

(1) Firm. Mat. 18. 1 habent enim propria signa, propria responsa, quae illis in istorum 
sacrilegiorum coetibus diaboli tradidit disciplina. in quodam templo, ut in interioribus 
partibus homo moriturus (A. Dieterich Zine Afithrasliturgie* Leipzig—Berlin 1910 p. 103: 
‘der in sakramentalem Sinne sterben soll.’ C. A. Lobeck cj. ovaturus. C. Bursian, 
followed by C. Halm, cj. z7¢voiturus) possit admitti, dicit: ‘de tympano manducavi, de 
cymbalo bibi, et religionis secreta perdidici,’ quod Graeco sermone dicitur : é« Tuumdvou 
BéBpwxa, €x kuuBadou mrérwxka, yéyova wiarns “ATTews. 

(2) Clem. Al. protr. 2. 15. 3 p. 13, 10 ff. Stahlin ra c¥uBora THs wvjoews radrns 
(for context see supra i. 392 n. 5)...°°ék Tummdvou eparyov’ éx KuuBadou émoy* éKxepvo- 
popnoa: bro tov wacrov brébvv.” Cp. schol. Plat. Gorg. 497 c éredetro 6é Taira Kai Anot 
kal Képn, ére ratrny wev IdovTwy apmacere, Anot dé uvyeln Levs: év ols mo\a wey émparrero 
alaxpa, éhéyero 5€ mpds TGv wvouuévwy Tara ‘‘éx Tummdvou Epayov, éx KUUBadov Erov, 
éxepvopopnaa”’ (képvos dé Td Nlkvoy Hyouv 76 mrvov éoriv [but see L. Couve in Daremberg— 
Saglio Dict. Ant. iii. 822 ff.]), ‘bad rov macrdv brédvov” Kai Ta éfjs. 

Now the timbrel was made from the stretched hide (supra i. 650 n. 2: add Eur. Hel. 
1347, Bacch. 513, Hesych. s.v. ryumava, Phot. lex. s.v. riumavov, Souid. s.v. TUumavov, 
et. mag. p. 771, 43 f., Zonar. lex. s.v. TUyumavoy, Favorin. lex. p. 1783, 42 f., e¢. Gud. 
P- 537; 40) of a bull (Ov. fast. 4. 342, Nonn. Dion. to. 390f., 14. 351, 20. 307: cp. the 
account of Indian drums in Souid. s.v. tvwmava), which was probably credited with the 
powers of the living animal (in Opp. cyveg. 3. 282 ff. we are told that a r¥umavov of wolf’s- 
skin will silence other 7Umrava, because the dead wolf is feared by the dead sheep }). 
Hence I should conjecture that to eat food out of the timbrel was a civilised surrogate for 
the earlier practice of eating the bull raw (supra i. 659 ff., 695). The mystic thereby 
became one with his god (sara i. 650, 673). 


Ba = Zan an older Zeus 


But why must he drink from a cymbal? Nonnos states that Mystis, the Sidonian 
Bacchant, who instructed Dionysos and devised the Dionysiac equipment, fastened bronze 
bowls to her naked breasts (Nonn. Dion. g. 125 f. kal @uddas (Count de Marcellus cj. 
gaddous stc) yuuvoiow émi (H. Koechly cj. yuuvotor rept) orépvoror xabawar | xadxelas 
(Count de Marcellus cj. yxadxelous) événoe), and that, when the god first came to Athens, 
the women there put bowls over their mailed breasts (Nonn. Dion. 47. gf. giddas (Count 
de Marcellus cj. padXous séc) 5é otdnpopbpwr bia waf&v | ornPeot uwvorirbdoiow avefwovvvvTo 
yuvaixes). The custom has given rise to discussion (F. Creuzer Dionysus sive commentatio 
academica de rerum Bacchicarum Orphicarumque originibus et causis Heidelberg 1809 
i. 63, K. Schwenck Szzzbzlder der alten voilker Frankfurt 1851 p. 39, R. Koehler User 
die Dionysiaka des Nonnus von Panopolis Halle 1853 p. 19 n. 2, O. Jahn in the Ber. 
sachs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1868 p. 177). E. Maass Orpheus Miinchen 
1895 p. 119 n. 167 shrewdly surmises that these bowls were the cymbals from which the 
mystics drank. I would support his conjecture by pointing out that in Kypros a breast- 
shaped cup was known both as waorés (Athen. 487 B MAZTOS. ’Arod\dGdwpos 6 Kupnvatos 
(Frag. hist. Gr. i. 469 Miiller), ws Idugirds @yot, ILadious 70 rorjpiov otrws KaXeiv, 
Eustath. zz 7. p. 1258, 59 f. €k 5€ rovTou tows Kal pwacbadns, KUME TIs Tapa Tots TadaLois. 
kal mapa Iladlos d€ waobos mornpiov, ciaToMor, ws elds, €& ot EBdAANETO TpdmOV TWH ws EK 
HacGod 76 mwdpuevoy) and as KvuBa (Athen. 482 E KiuBa mornprov ’Arro\NOdwpos (frag. 245 
(Frag. hist. Gr. i. 469 Miiller)) Tapio, 483 A ’ArroANdwpos 8’ ev TE mepl éTumoroyiav 
(frag. 189 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 463 Miiller)) Ilapious 7d mornjpiov xadeiv KiuBa (KiuBav 
cod. C.)). Its usage spread from the Levant-to Greece, for a cup called sacrés is, not 
only mentioned by grammarians (Poll. 6. 95 wacrov’s, Hesych. s.v. waords* mornpiov), but 
also recorded among articles of silver in the temple-inventories of Delos (T. Homolle in 
the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1882 vi. 1 ff. no. 15 C 44 f.=Dittenberger Sy//. zuscr. Gr.” no. 588, 
44 f. waords ém’ dplxovros TAnouévov (=216 B.C.), lepdgovros rod ’Ack\nmLod Dwrédov, 


93 wacrot /\|) and Oropos (B. I. Leonardos in the "Eg. ’Apx. 1889 p. 2 ff. no. 26, 11 
uacrds iepds [IE anos iepds OBS anos lepds OA, and in lines 13, 23, 25, 26, 27, 29, 
30 bis, 31, 32, 33, 45, 52, 56, 57, 62, 65, 66, 68 dz5, 70, 72, cp. 14 macacriov (sic) 
iepov Me ddXo tepsv ALS adXo iepov Ms; 15 mactlov ’ApioroKpirns KHS, 21 wacriov 


amd tev mepisunudrwv NH, 56 waorta B dws ray e(r)avbérwv dyovra dv |+| See further 
B. Keil ‘ Ein Silberinventar des Amphiaraos von Oropos’ in Hermes 1890 xxv. 598—623). 
Sundry specimens in ¢evra cotta have come down to us (e.g. (a) A. P. di Cesnola Salaminia 
London 1882 p. 251f. pl. 19, 11, Ohnefalsch-Richter Aypros p. 455 pl. 150, 20, Brit. 
Mus. Cat. Vases i. 2. 155 no. C 801 pl. 4: (6) Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases ii. 209 f. nos. 
B 375—B 377, E. Pottier in Daremberg—Saglio Dect. Anz. iii. 1625 fig. 4856 a black- 
figured #astés in room E of the Louvre: (c) Brzt. Mus. Cat. Vases iii. 392 f. nos. D g 
and D to a pair of mastoz by Sotades(?)), which appear to have been evolved from 
a feeding-bottle in the shape of the mother’s breast. No doubt the Greeks, like other 
peoples (H. Ploss—M. Bartels Das Weib™ Leipzig 1913 i. 376 fig. 252), struck by the 
similarity of breast and bowl, made such vases for purely secular purposes. But religious 
significance is sometimes probable (Plin. az. hist. 33. 81 Minervae templum habet Lindos 
insulae Rhodiorum, in quo Helena sacravit calicem ex electro; adicit historia, mammae 
suae mensura. C. Blinkenberg Dze Lindische Tempelchronik Bonn 1915 p. 15 comments : 
‘ Die art dieses geschenkes ist durch die auf die kleine Ilias (Schol. Aristoph. Lysistr. 155, 
vgl. Ep. pr. [=C. Blinkenberg ‘La chronique du temple lindien’ in the Bzddletin de 
Vacadémie royale des sciences et des lettres de Danemark 1912 n° 5—6] Ss. 119) zuriick- 
gehende erzihlung von der rettung Helenas bestimmt. Die notiz des Plinius stammt aus 
der reisebeschreibung des C. Licinius Mucianus, der um 60 n. Chr. den Orient bereist 
und auch Lindos besucht hatte (s. Ep. PR. Ss. 118 und 124 ff.) und von den besuchten 
ortlichkeiten allerlei kuriositaten berichtete. Wolters meint (Siiddeutsche Monatshefte 
1913), die stiftung des bechers sei erst nach der zeit unserer chronik erfunden ; da aber 
Mucianus sich ausdriicklich auf eine literarische quelle beruft (‘‘ adicit historia”), war die 


Zan an older Zeus 347 


Again, if the death of Zan the Great was, like that of Tammuz, 
the subject of a yearly lamentation, we cannot but recall Plutarch’s 
account! of the voice which bade the pilot Thamous bear the 
mysterious tidings 

‘Pan the Great is dead®.’ 


Are we to conclude that this singular tale was ultimately based on 
the ritual of Zan? The locality of the alleged 
occurrence is worth considering. The un- 
known voice came from the direction of 
Paxoi, a couple of small islands, now called 
Paxo and Antipaxo, off the mouth of the 
Thesprotian river Acheron, which flows 
through the Acherusian Lake to the sea. 
Thamous was to make his announcement 


geschichte vielmehr yon einem anderen, von Timachidas 
nicht gekannten oder beiseite gelassenen lokalhistoriker 
oder mythographen erzahlt.” The theme is embroidered 
in D. G. Rossetti’s Zroy Town) and sometimes certain 
(Apul. met. 11. 10 idem gerebat et aureum vasculum in 
modum papillae rutundatum de quo lacte libabat, with 
W. Drexler’s remarks in Roscher Lex. ALyth. ii. 502 f. = —— 
Fig. 240 is a breast-shaped sztu/a of bronze from Egypt, ———— 
now in my possession, which may serve to illustrate the 
Isiac milk-bowl. On St Agatha of Catania as successor of 
the Bona Dea see J. E. Wessely Lkonographie Gottes und 
der Hleiligen Leipzig 1874 p. 54 f., H. Ploss—M. Bartels 
op. cit.1° i. 372 f.). I am therefore disposed to conclude 
that drinking from the cymbal was regarded as tanta- 
mount to drinking from the breast of the goddess—a ritual 
act which made the mystic her very child (cp. Class. Rev. 
1906 xx. 416 f. fig. 4). A goat-rhytdén (supra i. 108) is substituted for the cymbal on 
an engraved cornelian at Florence, which represents a Bacchant milking her own breast 
into the vessel (A. F. Gori Mitseum Florentinum Gemmae 
antiquae ex thesauro Mediceo et privatorum dactylio- 
thecis Florentiae exhibitae tab. cc Florentiae 1731 i. 160 
pl. 84 no. 1o=my fig. 241, Reinach Prerres Gravées p. 43; 
no. 84, 10 pl. 40, R. E. Raspe Catalogue raisonné d'une 
collection générale de pierres gravées antiques et modernes 
moulées en pates de couleurs...par J. Tassie London 791 
no. 4695. The stone measures 16 x 12™- and is not de- 
monstrably postclassical. Gori took the subject to be 
‘vel Ino, vel Autonoé, vel Agave, vel Hippa’ as nurse of 
Bakchos (szfra i. 395 n. 3: the name should be Hipta, 
according to O. Kern in Hermes 1914 xlix. 480); but the 
identification is quite arbitrary). 

1 Plout. de def. or. 17 cited by Euseb. praep. ev. 5. 
17. 4 ff. 

2 Plout. de def. or. 17 Ilav (6 mav cod. Ambr.) 6 méyas 
rébynxe and later 6 uéeyas Ilav ré@vynxev, Euseb. pracp. ev. 5. 17. 6 Mav 6 péyas réOvnkev, 
5. 17. 8 Ilav 0 péyas réOvykev. 








348 Zan an older Zeus 


‘over against Palodes, a muddy lake at the outlet of which 
stood the town Bouthroton or Bouthrotos!. Neither place had 
anything whatever to do with Pan. Both may be readily connected 
with Zan. For at the Acherusian Lake was the tomb of Plouton, 
which the author of the Clementine Homzlzes expressly compares 
with the tomb of Zeus in Crete. And a copper coin of Bouthroton, 
struck when the town had become a Roman colony, has for obverse 
type the head of Zeus wearing a wreath of oak, for reverse an 
ox*, Other coppers of the same town show either a standing ox 
or an ox-head4, The ox indeed played a part in the foundation- 
legends both of Boucheta (Bouchetos, Boucheton, Bouchetion) near 
the mouth of the Acheron® and of Bouthroton too’, being com- 
parable on the one hand with Europa’s bull, on the other with 


1 Strab. 324, Ptol. 3. 14. 4, cp. Appian. de dell. civ. 5. 55. See further E. Oberhummer 
in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 1084f. and H. Kiepert Formae orbis antiqui Berlin 
1894 Map 15 (inset of ‘ Corcyra Insula’). 

2 Clem. Rom. hom. 5. 23 (ii. 192 Migne) adda kal rot aoedyods Atos, Tod mudcKod 
(uv00d sic O.), Tod duolws Thy Ovyatépa MArw karamévtos, év Kpyrn Oewpetrar tagos’ Kal 
év TH Axepovala dé Aluvn UWdovrwvos. Rohde Psyche? i. 134 n. 1, followed by Gruppe 
Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1301 n. 2 and others, refers the passage wrongly to the less famous 
Acherusian Lake near Hermione (Paus. 2. 35. 10). 

3 Imhoof-Blumer Monn. gr. p. 139 no. 30, cp. D. Sestini Descrizzone d’ alcune medaglie 
Greche del Museo del Signore Carlo d’ Ottavio Fontana di Trieste Firenze 1822 p. 35 
no. 1 (oby. P. DASSIDIVS. CORNELI.. caput Jovis laureatum, rev. bos gradiens . 3), 
no. 2 (oby. P. DASSIDIVS CORNELIVS caput Iovis laureatum, rey. bos gradiens . 2 p:), 
id. Descrizione delle medaglie antiche Greche del Museo Hedervariano dalla Liburnia fino 
a tutte le tsole dell’ arctpelago Parte Europea Firenze 1830 ii. 24 no. 2 (obv. P. DASSIDIVS. 
CORNELIVs. caput Jovis laureatum, rev. bos gradiens 4. 3 p.), J. de Witte Description 
des médailles et des antiquités du cabinet de M. l'abbé H. G.(=Greppo de Montellier] 
Paris 1856 no. 566. 

4 Tmhoof-Blumer Jonn. gr. p. 139 f. nos, 31 (0x), 32 (0x), 33 (ox-head), 39 (ox-head), 
40 (ox). 

® Philostephanos frag. ga (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 30 Miiller) af. Harpokr. s.v. Bovxera: 
...WOds éote THS ’Hrelpov...nv Piiosrémavos (Pikdxwpos sec cod. Heidelberg.) €v Tots 
*"Hreipwrikots wvoudoba pnol did 7d THY Oduw emi Bods dxoumevny éhOciy exetoe KaTa TOV 
Aevkadtwvos katak\uoudv =Souid. s.vv. Bovxera and Oduv (in both passages reading 
Piddxopos for Pitoorégavos)=et. mag. p. 210, 34 ff. (reading Piddxopos and dia ro TH 
Anr® row Oduy x.7.d.) = Favorin. ex. p. 385, 31 ff. (reading Pitoorégavyos €v Tots 
Pilirmexots sic). 

8 Teukros of Kyzikos frag. 1 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 508 Miiller) af. et. mag. p. 210, 21 ff. 
Boutpwros 7 BovOpwrds, mods THs "Hrrelpov, ws pyar Tedkpos 6 Kugixnyds, dre “ENévou x Tis 
marploos eis Thy "Hireipoy mapayevouevov, Avovros dé éEriBatnpia, 7 Bods ov Katplay KaBovoa 
Touny pevyer kal Kd\rov Twa THS “Hrrelpou diavntapevy els ynv e&épxerat, kal KaTaTecovoa 
amédavev. 6 6€ “BXevos, cuuBdrw Oelw xpnodmevos, kTifer modu, Kal aro To cumBavTos 
Bourpwrov airiv avduace, cp. Steph. Byz. s.v. Bov@pwrés: xeppdvnoos wept Képxupav. 
éore kal modus. éxdAHOn & of wév haow amd Tod olkioTod, of dé mvOevovrar dtr “HNévw Ex 
Tpolas mdéovte és éomépny, OVoavTe dmoBarnpia év "Hreipw, Td O0ua 7 Bods amodpacaca ex 
Tov BoumAfyos wWETO hevyouca Sia TOD meas’) movrov’ Kal els Tov xépoov euBaca (Kal yap 
Tpaua ev TH Seipy elxev) ad’tod Hpime Kal €Oave* Kai KAnddve 6 “ENevos xpHrar, Wa €OynKke 
Bovdpwroy dvoua, ws pyow Tedkpos 6 Kugtxnvés. 


Zan an older Zeus 349 


the cow of Ilos at Troy! or the ‘ Adiounian bull’ in Crete. It seems 
likely enough that in this district, peopled with Illyrian tribes*, which 
had pushed their way from north to south? and were partially 
Hellenised by contact with their neighbours, Zezs represents Zén— 
a name reappearing in the Zdwes of Olympia’, When Zan had 
dropped out of popular parlance, a story involving his half-forgotten 
name might well become attached to Pd. Epitherses, who told 
the tale, was a grammarian of Nikaia in Bithynia living in the reign 
of Tiberius® ; and coins of Nikaia, struck by Marcus Aurelius’, Cara- 
calla’, Macrinus®, Elagabalos”, Severus Alexander™, Maximinus”, 
Gordianus iii, Philippus ii“, Trebonianus Gallus®, and Gallienus", 
make much of Pan!”. Moreover, the Orphic Theogony of Hellanikos 
had long since identified Zeus with Pan", misled by what seemed 
an obvious etymology”. On the whole, therefore, it may be inferred 
that Plutarch’s story really does postulate as its original source the 
liturgy of Zan the Great”. 


1 Supra i. 468 n. 9. 

2 Supra i. 468 n. 8, 635. See further G. F. Hill in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1916 xxxvi. 
138 ff. (‘ Cattle in Foundation-Myths’). 

3 A. Philippson in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. v. 2722, 

4 A, Fick Vorgriechische Ortsnamen Gottingen 1905 p. 142 f., G. Dottin Les anciens 
peuples del Europe Paris 1916 pp. 152 f., 155. 

5 Supra p. 343 5.v. Laves. 

6 L, Cohn in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. vi. 221. 

7 Waddington—Babelon—Reinach Monn. gr. d’As. Min. i. 418 f. nos. 153 pl. 70, 19, 
155 pl. 70, 20, 156 pl. 70, 21, 157 pl. 70, 22. 


8 Hid. ib. i. 454 no. 444 pl. 78, 26. Se Bidatbe I 407 NO. 54 4eple Oks 1A. 

10 Fid. ib, i. 469 no. 561. 1 Eid. ib. i. 474 nos. 593 pl. 82, 21, 594. 
12 Pid. ib. i. 480 nos. 640 pl. 83, 28, 641, 642 pl. 83, 29. 

13 Fd. ib. i. 487 no. 697 pl. 84, 32. M4 Eid. 2b. i. 492 no. 739 pl. 85, 25. 

1b Hid. 7b.i. 496 no. 770. 16 Hid. 7b. i. 506 no. 838 pl. 87, 32. 


7 See further F. Imhoof-Blumer in the Yourn. Intern. d’ Arch. Num. 1898 i. 26, 28 ff. 
pl. B’, 17 (M. Aurelius), 18 (M. Aurelius), 19 (Macrinus), 20 (Maximinus), 21 (Caracalla), 
W. H. Roscher in his Lex. Myth. iii. 1368. 

18 Infra Append. G. Cp. Orph. 2. AZ. 34. 24 ff., Apollod. frag. 44 6 (Frag. hist. Gr. 
iv. 649 Miiller) ap. Serv. zz Verg. georg. 1. 16 (ii. 174n. Lion), Cornut. ¢heol. 27 p. 49, 
4 ff. Lang. See also W. H. Roscher ‘ Pan als Allgott’ in the Festschrift fiir Johannes 
Overbeck Leipzig 1893 pp. 56—72 and in his Lex. My/A. iii. 1405, A. Jeremias 20. v. 69. 

19 Tidy =v ! 

*0 T regret that I find myself unable to accept the admirably ingenious hypothesis put 
forward by S. Reinach (‘La mort du grand Pan’ in the Bzd/. Corr. Hell. 1907 xxxi. 
5—19=7d. Cultes, Mythes et Religions Paris 1908 ili. 1—15), according to which the 
words heard off Paxos were OAMOTS OAMOTS OAMOTS TANMETAD TEONHKE, 
‘Tammuz, Tammuz, Tammuz the Almighty is dead.’ But (a) it is highly improbable that 
the Syrian god would have been lamented as Oamois on the north-west coast of Greece— 
he would almost certainly have been called”Adwms. And (6), as Reinach himself points 
out, the precise epithet mavuéyas is not known to occur as a divine appellative except in 
a Byzantine (first half of s. xii A.D.) description of Zeus (Theod. Prodr. Rhod. et Dos. 8. 
116 @ wdpmeya Zed). See further G. A. Gerhard ‘Der Tod des grossen Pan’ in the 


350 Zan an older Zeus 


The same may be said of the ritual chant at Dodona, where the 
Peleiades are reported to have sung : 


Zeus was, Zeus is, Zeus shall be: O Great Zeus! 
Earth sends up fruits ; so hymn ye Mother Earth?. 


The epithet ‘ Great Zeus’ inclines me to suspect that here too Zeus 
had displaced Zan. M. Mayer’s notion that the older name of 
the god (* Djan, Zam) has survived in the modern /dnziza? is, I fear, 
a simple mirage®. But it is tempting to seek, with R. Meister, the 
female counterpart of Zdéz in *Dzaina* or * Didne’®, the weak forms 
corresponding with the strong form Dzone’. 


Sitzungsber. ad. Heidelb. Akad. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe rgr5 Abh. v, zd. ‘ Nochmals 
zum Tod des grossen Pan’ in the Weener Studien 1916 xxxvill. 343—376. 

1 Paus. 10. 12. 10 Tas HeNecddas (so F. Sylburg for Iediddas codd.) 6€ Pyuovdys re ere 
mpotépas yevéoOar é-youct, Kal doa yuvaik@v mpdras Tdde Ta ern’ Leds nv, Leds éark (eorw 
codd. Pc. M. Vb. Vn. In cod. La. the v is erased), Zebs €ocerac (so cod. Pa. érerae codd. 
cett.)* © weydde Zed. | TG xapmovs aviet (so codd. Pd. Ag. dvuei cod. Pc. dvier codd. cett.), 
51d KAHGeTe warépa (so L. Dindorf for unrépa codd.) Tatar. 

2M. Mayer Die Giganten und Titanen Berlin 1887 p. 83 n. 71. 

3 See W. M. Leake Zyavels x Northern Greece London 1835 iv. 130 ‘Ta ’Iwavvwa, as 
the name of this city occurs in the Byzantine history, and is still written by ecclesiastics, 
is corrupted in the vulgar idiom to ’Iavwva, ’Idveva, Tudveva, or more frequently Tidvvwa, 
from whence the Italian form Giannina. The ordinary pronunciation conforms to the 
vulgar spelling, and may be nearly represented in English by Yannina; but the better 
educated not only adhere to the orthography derived from the name ’Iwdvvys, but preserve 
also the sound of the omega in vocal utterance.’ This paragraph was penned while Leake 
was staying at ‘ Ioannina’ in July, 1809. 

4 Apollod. ap. schol. Od. 3. gt ws kal 7" Hpa Acalyy (dvatvn codd. H.Q. didvn cod. M. 
P. Buttmann cj. Acwyn). C. A. Lobeck Pathologiae sermonis Graeci prolegomena Lipsiae 
1843 p. 32 n. 27 and K. W. Dindorf in Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. ii. 1595 C accept 
Buttmann’s Awyyn. W. Pape—G. E. Benseler Worterbuch der griechischen Higennamen® 
Braunschweig 1875 i. 296 are less positive : ‘ Avatyn, f. viell. Acdvn,’ etc. C.T. Angermann 
in the Studien zur griechischen und lateinischen Grammatik ed. by G. Curtius Leipzig 
1868 i. 59 nu. t defends Acalyn : ‘ Sed quidni Dodonaei Acaivn, quam formam regularem esse 
cognovimus, servari (szc) potuerint ?’ Finally, R. Meister in the Ber. sachs. Gesellsch. d. 
Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1894 p. 201 says: ‘Dass der Scholiast oder seine Quelle Acaivy 
mit -7 schrieb statt Alaa mit dem allein berechtigten -d, ist ein Fehler, den bereits 
Welcker, Gr. Gétterlehre 1, 353 [‘‘ Avalvy (Alawa)”] corrigirt hat.’ 

> See infra n. 6, and cp. the formation of evdiavés (Pind. O2 9. 146 f. Wuxpar... 
evduavov pdppaxov avpav. In Pyth. 5. 10 J. G. J. Hermann and A. Boeckh read evdiavds 
for evdlay ds k.7.X. with J. G. Schneider, who cited evécavqv from the cod. Voss. of Plat. 
lege. QIQ A evdvewhy yadnvnv—see Steph. Thes. Gr. Ling. iii. 2224 B). 

6 R. Meister ‘iiber die Namen: ‘‘ Audvy, Zjv, Zav”’ in the Ber. sichs. Gesellsch. d. 
Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1894 p. 200 ff.: ‘ Wir finden auf griechischem Boden die starke 
Form dieses -e-Stammes vertreten mit o-Farbung des Suffixvocals in @i-dn-: *Aiwy, 
Ausvn, und mit e-Farbung in @-én-: Ziv. *Alwv, Ayn waren die altdodondischen 
Himmelsgotter; fiir den Namen *Alwy trat spater Zeds Nawos ein, der Name Awv7 erhielt 
sich. Neben diesen beiden starken Stammformen *Aiwy und Zmjy lassen sich im Griech- 
ischen zwei schwache Stammformen nachweisen : (1) du-av- (d.i. urspr. dz-2- vor Vocalen 
und vor ¢) in Alawa, (2) di-ay- (d.i. urspr. dé-z-, ebenso vor Vocalen und vor ¢) in Zav-, 
dem Ausgangspunkt fiir die Neubildung des Flexionssystems Zay, Zavés.... Ein zweite 
Bildung von diesem schwachen Stamm 6u-é- wiirden wir in dcalyw “ befeuchte ” vor uns 


Zan an older Zeus 251 


In Zds, the form of Zezs used by Pherekydes of Syros! and 
declined as Zds, Zdntos, etc., by later Greek scholars’, P. Kretschmer 


haben, wenn die alten Etymologen Recht haben sollten, dieses Verbum trotz der 
abweichenden Bedeutung mit dem Namen des Himmels und des Himmelsgottes zusam- 
menzubringen, vgl. z. B. Eustath. zu Hom. Il. 21, 202 p. 1231, 28: loréov Ore ék Tod 
Avds 7701 dépos TO Stalyw mapaKrat, Kal Syndot To vypalvew kal ws elmety diaBpéxew ; Et. M. 
266, 56: diaivw..Kuplws 7d €x Ards BpéxecPar. Die Bezeichnung des epeirotischen 
Himmelsgottes als Zeds Nduos ‘‘der feuchte, regenspendende Zeus” hebt dasselbe als 
Eigenschaft des Himmelsgottes hervor, was, wenn wirklich dcaivw stammverwandt mit 
*Alwy (richtiger dann *diwy zu schreiben) sein sollte, das Verbum herausheben wiirde als 
Thatigkeit des Himmels; was den Bedeutungsiibergang anlangt, konnte man mit *diwy 
“Himmel”; dvalvw ‘* befeuchte” etwa vergleichen den von alO7p: aidpéw (= xed fw)... 
Von der Existenz der Form *Acap liegt eine unsichere Spur vor. Zu Theokrit 15, 106 giebt 
namlich der gute cod. p die Lesart Kap: Avavala, wo die iibrigen Handschriften Acwvaia 
oder Acwvain haben, und Ahrens (Philol.. xx111, 1866, S. 208 f. = KI. Schr. 1, 421) erklarte 
nachtraglich Acavata fiir die echte Lesart, unter dem Ausdruck seines Bedauerns sie nicht 
in den Text seiner Ausgabe aufgenommen zu haben. Ist dieser Lesart zu vertrauen, so 
haben wir fiir die epeirotische Himmelsgéttin drei Namensformen iiberliefert : Acsvy, 
Alawa und Acavy, denen der starke, der schwache und der aus dem schwachen neu 
gebildete Stamm zu Grunde liegen.’ 

1 Pherekyd. frag. 1 Diels af. Diog. Laert. 1. 119 o@gerat 5é Tod Luplou 76 Te BiBNlov 6 
cuvéypawer, ov  apxn* ‘Zas (fas codd. B.P!. feds codd. F.P?.) wev Kal Xpdvos joay del 
Kal XOovin* XOovin dé bvoma éyévero IH, erred avrn Las (Fels codd. F. P?.) yiv yépas dcd07,”’ 
k.T.., cp. Damask. guaest. de primis principits 124 b (i. 321, 3 f. Ruelle) Pepexddys dé 
0 Dupios Lavra (leg. Zdvra) pév evar del kal Xpdvov cal XOoviav ras rpels mpwras apxas x.T.D. 
(cod. A. has (Gvra mévevar der Kal xpdvor sic). 

Pherekyd. frag. 2 Diels af. B. P. Grenfell—A. S. Hunt Greek Papyri, Series I] New 
Classical Fragments Oxford 1897 no. 11 (a papyrus of s. iii A.D.) Col. 1, 12 ff. pl. 4 
TO TE ZAC TTOIEL PAPOC ME\TA TE KAI KAAON «.7.4.=Clem. Al. strom. 
6. 2 p- 429, I Stahlin Pepexvdns 6 Dvpros Neyer: “ Zas (Fas cod. L. O. Stahlin reads Zéas) 
movet Papos wéya Te Kal KaNov” K.T.r. 

Herodian. epi povnpous héEews 6, 16 (ii. grr, 8 f. Lentz) =Eustath. 2 Od. p. 1387, 28 
cited supra p. 344 nN. 0. 

* Herodian. repli kaBoxjs mpoowdlas 14 (i. 399, 18 Lentz) Zds Zdyros 6 Zevs, 15 (i. 410, 
19 Lentz) Zds Zavros, Herodian, wept dvoudrwy (ii. 617, 37 Lentz)=Choirobosk. 27 
Theodos. can. masc. 1 (i. 125, 34 Hilgard) 6 Zds, Herodian. epi dvoudrwy (ii. 633, 15 and 
19 f. Lentz) =Choirobosk. 27 Theodos. can. met. 4 (i. 348, 31 and 37 Hilgard) Zds...Zds 
Zavros (ore 6€ dvoua Kvprov 6 Zds (so cod. C. 6 Zevs cod. V.)), Herodian. zepi kAloews 
évouarwv 3 (ii. 635, 26 Lentz) =Cramer azecd. Oxon. iv. 334, 28 Las (so J. A. Cramer for 
Zeid cod.) Zavros, Herodian. repli xXlcews dvouarwy (ii. 648, 32 Lentz)=Choirobosk. 7 
Theodos. can. proleg. (i. 116, 10 Hilgard) Zdés Zavrés (onuatver dé tov Ala), Herodian. 
mepi KNigews dvoudrwy (ii. 649, 3 Lentz) =Choirobosk. zz Theodos. can. proleg. (i. 116, 22 
Hilgard) Zds, Herodian. epi xdicews dvoudrwy (ii. 658, 28 f. Lentz) =Choirobosk. zx 
Theodos. can. masc. 1 (i. 132, 6 ff. Hilgard) éort yap Zds Zavrés cal pds pavrés: cat léov 
Tatra ovK dmoBo\n THs ToS Tovover THY KANTLKHY, OVdE yap Néyouev @ Zdv wal & IIpav, adn’ 
& Zds cat & IIpds ouopuwws rq edOela, Herodian. rep xdicews dvoudrwr (ii. 674, 24 f. 
Lentz) = Choirobosk. 27 Theodos. can. masc. 10 (i. 214, 10 Hilgard) Zds Zavrés, Herodian. 
mept weTox@v 3 (ii. 784 n. on line rg Lentz)=Choirobosk. epzm. 7 psalm. 50, 22 Las, 
Eustath. 27 //. p. 436, 19 ff. orw kal Zas 6 avros Kara Ti adrny éerumodoylay, dnrovow oi 
mahawol. ws dé Kal d&dverar 6 Las Kal TO vT exer ev TH yeviKy SHAov €x Tod mapadévTos ru, 
Ka0a Ipas Ipdvros dvoua morauod Kal médews, Kal POas POdvTos Kiprov mapofvydmevov 
METOXLK@S Ev TH yeviKH KaTA TO Pas PavTos, otrw Kal Las Zavros, 6 cnuaiver rov Ala (the 
reference is to Herodian. wep! kaOodixfjs mpoowdlas 14 cited above). 


352 Zan an older Zeus 


detects yet another name comparable with that of Janus’. And 
it should be noticed that Dzzas and Déas, the immediate precursors 
of Zds, have been handed down to us as variants of the name borne 
by one of the Titans”, whose relation to the Cretan Zeus or Zagreus 
we have already considered*. Indeed, according to one of the Greek 
etymological lexicons, Zeus himself was called Déas'—a remark 
which has not attracted the attention that it deserves. We may 
therefore with some confidence point to the series 


Ditas Dias Zas 
as a Greek equivalent of the Latin® 
* Divianus Dianus Lanus. 
1 P, Kretschmer in O. Kern De Orphet Epimenidis Pherecydis theogoniis quaestiones 
criticae Berolini 1888 p. 93 n. 64: ‘Graeci ex antiquissimis temporibus duo habebant 


summi dei nomina, quae non radicibus, sed suffixis inter se differebant : Zevs ex *Z-nu-s et 
Lavs ex *Z-ay-s (cf. lat. Ianus, Abl. Iane) exortum ; quae hoc modo flectebantur : 
, 


I Zevs II Zavs Plur. Zaves (eliac.) 
Liv Lava (cf. cret. Tava) 
Atfos ZLavos 
Acft Zavi (cf. lac. Zavl) 


Ex Ziv et Zéva compluribus in dialectis novus accusativus Zjva (cf. cret. Ajva, Tjva, 
Trqva; Pind. Zjva) mixtus est, a quo aliorum quoque casuum nova flexio (gen. Zyvés, 
dat. Zvi, nom. Zjs) proficiscebatur.—In ionica autem dialecto cum -dys in -as et a in 
transiret, altera (11) flexio ita mutanda erat: 

“as (Pherecyd.) 

Znva 

Znvos ry Homer. 

Znvi 
Ergo Zas apud Pherecydem exspectanda atque postulanda est forma, Z7s—si ab eo scripta 
est—per analogiam ficta. Alia autem flexio quae apud illum scriptorem inveniri videtur : 
Las Lavra (non Lavra!) Zdvros Zdvte exemplo participiorum ut Bas Bdvra Bdvros Bavre 
adducta est.’ 

After this we can hardly maintain with Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1100 n. 1 that the 
Pherecydean Zds was ‘Freie Erfindung,’ though we may well suppose with him 2d, 
pp- 427, 1114 n. 1 that Pherekydes saw in the name an allusion to the ‘life’ of the world 
(sapra ie It ne 5, 28 0.18, 20a, 21 egyetOOt.): 

2 Choirobosk. rept épSoypadias in Cramer anecd. Oxon. il. 192, 13 ff. Alas’ dca Tod « 
ypdpeTrar’ womep yap amd THs Spdxovtos yenkys yiverar Spaxovtias, oUTws kal dro THs Avos 
yevixs yiverar Arias, kal xara xptow (leg. kpaow) T&y dvo u eis €v « waxpov Alas=el. mag. 
p- 271, 3 ff. Alas’ ws amd rod dpdxwy Spaxovros, dpaxovtias, otrw Kat dro Tov Acos ylverau 
Atias* kat kpdoer, Alas. ioréov 6€ 67. 7d Alas kal Oelas (Oclas kai Alas cod. V.) dia roi NT 
kMwovrat* 70 d€ Oetas kal Arias (Actas cod. V.), tcoovANdBws, cp. 76. p. 270, 10 ff. Alas: 
6 npws, els Tov Tirdywr. mapa Thy Aros yevixyy, Alas. 7 eis TOv IlehomidGy. rylverar mapa 
To Aéos, Actas: Kal é€v awa op, Acias, dua THs EL diPOdyyou: 6 déos éumorey =et. Gud. 
p- 144, 54ff.=Favorin. dex. p. 492, 13 ff. On the various mythical persons etc. named 
Atas see H. W. Stoll in Roscher Lex. AZyth. i. 1011 f. and P, Natorp in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. iv. 2446, G. Wissowa 20. v. 345. 

3 Supra i. 398 f., 647, 654 ff. 

4 Et. Gud. p. 144, 57 ff. Alas* 6 Zevs, dv’ ov (Sper, mapa 7o dvalvew, Tour’ éore TUVELY 
Ti ynv. 7) mapa TO ety, 6 éore cuvéxew Kal decuever TO ciuTray alaOnrov. 7) Tapa TO (Hr. 


5 Supra p. 339. 


Zan an older Zeus 353 


Dione}, the name habitually given to the goddess of Dodona, 
implies that her partner was known as Don? or *Zdn. Dton as 
the god’s name was presumably ousted by Zezs. Servius, however, 
tells the story of an early Laconian King zon, who entertained 
first Apollo and then Liber Pater*. Since the Spartan kings were 
priests of Zeus‘, it is just possible that their forbears played the part 
and bore the name of Zeus himself. Be that as it may, the simul- 
taneous existence of the parallel forms Zaz and *70n is by no means 
without analogy. It would even appear that both forms have 
persisted in Crete down to modern times. The peasant of Anogeia 
still ejaculates ‘God Zénos!’ or ‘Hear me, god Zédnos!*’ 

It will be convenient to summarise in tabular form the names 
here discussed and the equations proposed : 














LATIN | GREEK MODERN GREEK / 
*Divianus Diviana Atias 
Dianus Diana Aias *Aiawa, *Acavy 
Tanus Tana | Zas 
lan Zav | Zavos 
Aiwy Aovy Zavos 








I hold, then, that there was an ancient Illyrian (?) sky-god, who 
appears on the west of the Adriatic as Ianus, on the east as 
Zan. Throughout the historical period Ianus was more and more 
eclipsed by Iupiter: at an early date Zan was practically superseded 
by Zeus. Nevertheless Ianus was still accorded a foremost place 
in the prayers and invocations of the Romans‘, while Zan was never 
wholly forgotten by the Greeks. 

If we are to understand the outward expression given by both 
peoples to the cult of this great deity, we must keep in mind the 
fact that he was ad origine the divine Sky and nothing more’. 


1 Av@yy is scanned with ¢ in 2. Ap. 93 (6ccar dpiorar Eoav, Arwvy Te ‘Pein re where 
‘TY. W. Allen and E. E. Sikes rightly retain the manuscript reading as against F. A. Wolf’s 
cj. €aor), with tin //. 5. 370, 381, Hes. theog. 17, 353, Eur. Hel. 1098, Antigone frag. 
177, 1 Nauck®, a/b. Cp. Diana and Diana (supra p. 339 n. 5)- 

2 Supra p. 350 n. 6. 

3 Serv. zz Verg. ec. 8. 30 Dion rex Laconiae fuit, qui habuit uxorem Iphiteam 
(G. Thilo cj. Amphztheam) Prognai filiam, etc. ‘These names should find a place in 
P. Poralla Prosopographie der Lakedaimonier bis auf die Zeit Alexanders des Grossen 
Breslau 1913. 

4 Supra i. 8. ; 5 Supra i. 163. 

8 See e.g. W. H. Roscher in his Lex. AZyth. ii. 39, Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rim.” p. 103 f., 
W. Warde Fowler Zhe Roman Festivals London 1899 pp. 282, 287, zd. The Religious 
Experience of the Roman People London gtr pp. 126, 140. 

7 Supra p. 337 ff. 


C. 11: 23 


354 Janus represented as Vault or Archway 


Accordingly the Greeks did not at first carve him a statue or even 
construct him a temple. 
Why, where’s the need of Temple, when the walls 
O’ the world are that ?4 

The Persians on their mountain heights worshipped ‘the whole 
circle of the sky?, offering sacrifice to him whom they called in the 
accusative case *Dzdz*. And in like manner the Cretans honoured 
Zan on a mountain-top, expressly identifying him with the sky-god 
Zeus’. So far as we know, Zan was not figured forth by any 
anthropomorphic image. At most he was represented by the divine 
bull annually eaten of his worshippers®. The tomb of Zan was 
indeed, for those who could receive it, the tomb of ‘a Great Ox’ 
A parallel to the Cretan sacrament may be found in a Paris papyrus 
already quoted’: ‘Zeus went up into the mountain with a golden 
calf and a silver knife. To all he gave a share. The cult of this 
aniconic god appealed to the Pythagoreans. Pythagoras himself 
is said to have written the epitaph of Zan‘, and his followers speak 
of ‘the tower of Zan’ or ‘the watch-tower of Zan’ as the very centre 
of the universe*. It is not till Zan has been definitely ousted by 
Zeus that we hear of ‘ bronze images of, Zeus...called Zdnes™.’ 


(x) Ianus represented as Vault or Archway. 


In the Italian area the representation of the sky-god was 
developed along different lines. Since the sky itself was conceived 
as resting on four pillars", the primitive effigy of Ianus, the divine 
Sky, was a vault resting on four supports, in short an archway. 
It needs an effort of imagination on our part to realise that the 
“arch of Ianus was no mere attribute or emblem of a sky-god, but an 
actual copy of the animate sky. And excellent scholars, like my 
friend Mr Warde Fowler, will no doubt continue to assert that the 


R. Browning Zfzlogue to Dramatis Persone Third Speaker rt. 1 f. 
Supra i. 9 f., 338 n. 2. 3 Supra i. 781. 
4 Supra i. 158 n. 2, 646, li. 341 n. 6 s.v. Zdv, 345. 

> Supra i. 650, 662 ff., 673, 695. 

6 Supra p. 345. ° Supra i. 581. 
8 

9 


1 
2 
‘ 


Supra i. 158 n. 2, 646, ii. 341 n. 6 5.v. Zdv, 345. 
Supra i. 303, li. 36, 52, 341 n. 6 5.v. Zavés. 

Possibly Zan was at one time worshipped in Samos, the original home of Pythagoras. 
The name duos, which means ‘height’ (Strab. 346, 457), recalls at once Daun or Ldmos 
(Samo) in Kephallenia; Dduos, later Daula or Daucxdy, in Triphylia; Sdwos or Lauobpaxn; 
Yduos in Karia; etc. A. Fick Vorgriechische Ortsnamen Gottingen 1905 p. 54 f. (cp. 7d. 
pp- 65, 88f., 113, 115 f., 135 f.) regards this whole group of names as belonging by rights 
to the Leleges, who were driven eastwards by the advance of the Illyrians (74. p. 142). 

10 Supra pp. 341 n. 6 s.v. Laves, 349. 

U Supra p. 140 ff. 


Janus represented as Vault or Archway 355 


famous gateway at the north-western end of the Forum Romanum 
was ‘a symbolic entrance to the heart of the city’’ But the early 
Roman cared little for symbols. What he wanted was to have 
the god he worshipped present in his midst. So, if the god he 
worshipped was the shining vault of heaven, he must needs have 
a glittering szmulacrum of it continually before him. W. Deecke in 
1876 had already got a glimpse of the truth, when he urged that 
[anus denoted the sky as an arch or vault?; L. Preller and H. Jordan 
in 1881 admitted that the simple arch stood for the heavenly 
vault*; and S. Linde in 1891, while improving on his predecessors’ 
etymology, still upheld their opinion that the vaulted archway of 
Ianus was but an image of the sky*. I agree with this view, which 
seems to me strongly supported by the fact that the Romans used 
the self-same word on the one hand of the god (/azus), on the other 
of his arch (zazzs). 

The archway of Ianus in all probability forms part of the back- 
ground carved on one of the well-known balustrades in the Forum 
(fig. 242). The emperor (Trajan?) is here seen standing with his 
suite on the vostra in front of the old curza; and the adjoining 
gateway, a simple round-headed arch between two Corinthian 
columns supporting a horizontal entablature, was identified by 


1 W. Warde Fowler Zhe Religious Experience of the Roman People London 1911 
p. 126. Cp. B. R. Burchett Janus in Roman Life and Cult Menasha, Wisconsin 1918 
p- 37 £. (‘the symbolical entrance-way,’ ‘the symbolical entrance,’ ‘the one symbolical 
gate’). 

2 W. Deecke Etruskische Forschungen Stuttgart 1876 ii. 125: ‘Ianus bezeichnete aljo 
ven Himmel als ,, Bogen, Gewodlbe ’ und wurde fo Mame dex Himmels-, nicht des Gonnengottes. 
So Eniipft fich auch vie Cinfithrung feines Dienjtes in Rom an den Bau des Tanus geminus auf 
bem Sorum’ etc. 

3 Preller—Jordan Rém. Myth.? i. 168: ‘daher der einfache Bogen, ianus, eigentlich 
ein offener’ Durchgang (transitio pervia, Cic. N. D. 11, 27) das Symbol des himmlischen 
Gewé6lbes und seines Pfortners Janus, des himmlischen Lichtgottes wurde.’ 

4S. Linde De ano summo Romanorum deo Lundae 1891 p. 18: ‘Ianum caelum 
repraesentasse forma quoque templi eius indicat, quod arcus vel fornix erat—quae fornix 
imago caeli mihi videtur fuisse, ut pro caelo et germanice Hzmmelsgewdlbe et suethice 
himlahvalf dicitur. Recte igitur, opinor, Deecke (Etr. Forsch. 11 p. 125 sq.) Ianum esse 
deum caeli statuit. Falso tamen putat Ianum idem atque transitum esse et etiam per se 
a principio fornicem vel arcum significasse, nam fornix vel arcus est imago sola caeli* 
[*Cfr Preller, Rom. Myth.’ I. p. 168], non ipsa interpretatio nominis Iani.’ 

5 E. Brizio in the Azz. d. Znst. 1872 xliv. 314f., Won. d. /nst. ix pl. 47 (a photograph, 
from which my illustration is drawn), H. Jordan Zopographie der Stadt Rom im Alter- 
thum Berlin 1885 i. 2. 219 ff. pl. 4 (p. 224 ‘einen nicht sicher bestimmbaren Bogen’), 
C. Huelsen Zhe Roman Forum trans. J. B. Carter Rome 1906 p. 97 ff. fig. 44 (cp. p. 102 
‘an arch which has not been identified, and which was probably destroyed in the altera- 
tions by Severus’),.Mrs A. Strong Roman Sculpture from Augustus to Constantine 
London 1907 p. 151 ff. pl. 45 (p. 155 ‘an arch which archaeologists have not yet named’), 
Reinach Aép. Reliefs i. 278 f. 


23—2 


356 Ianus represented as Vault or Archway 


E. Brizio and P. Rosa! with the zazus at the entrance of the Forum2. 





















= oe ae, ee, Pa = 
CONGR Wie ACIS “Sa BE 


[(SiSqle pele et 
SUDO WOOT OMU COCR SOA. fC COROT COMO. 
QS 2 APATITE RT lia sta aR RD 
= T0090 00S O00 


ae 


ae SUSU S SUSI Sissies SSS 
tee, 0 ee ee ee 


























‘ 


=i <= —— ills 




















Zi ——_s = a 














Rig. 242) 


’ E. Brizio loc. cit., P. Rosa Sudle scoperte archeologiche della citta e provincia di Roma 
pegli anni 1871—1872 Roma 1873 (see H. Jordan in the Jahresbericht tiber die Fort- 
schritte der classischen Alterthumswissenschaft 1873 i. 737). Cp. O. Richter 7opographie 
der Stadt Row” Miinchen 1gor p. 106f. pl. 10 (‘ Triumphbogen (Janus ?)’). 

2 Schol. Cruq. Hor. sat. 2. 3. 18 Iani autem statuae tres erant, una in ingressu fori, 
etc., cp. Acron and Porphyrion ad doc. The best collection of the evidence, literary and 
monumental, will be found in H. Jordan Zofographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum 
Berlin 1885 i. 2. 214 ff., 345 ff. See also L. Levy—H. Luckenbach Das Forum Romanum 
der Kaiserzeit Miinchen—Leipzig 1895 p. 16 with figs. 3 (restoration by L. Levy) and 4 
(ground-plan), S. B. Platner Zhe Topography and monuments of ancient Rome Boston 
1904 p. 186 ff., H. Thédenat Le Forum Romain et la Voie Sacrée Paris 1905 p. 17 f. 


Ianus represented as Vault or Archway 357 


Certain rare denarii struck by Augustus are quoted as exhibiting 





the same zanus with closed gates (figs. 243, 244). A similar type, 


(restoration by F. Hoffbauer) pl. 7 (ground-plan and perspective view), H. Kiepert et 
C. Huelsen Formae urbis Romae antiqguae? Berolini 1912 p. 16. 
1 Morell. Zhes. Mum. Imp. Rom. i. 308 pl. 18, 19 (=my fig. 243) and 20 (=my 


358 Ianus represented as Vault or Archway 


but without the entablature, occurs on the reverse of awrez struck by 
Nero (fig. 245). It is, however, from the ‘first brass’ (figs. 246—249)? 
and ‘second brass’ (figs. 250, 251)° of this emperor that we gain 
the clearest idea of the building. The said pieces show us a small 
oblong edifice with a heavy flat roof. At either end is a pair of 
Roman Doric or Corinthian columns carrying a semicircular arch, 
which is filled by shut doors and adorned with a festoon. The long 
side of the structure is of unusual design, consisting of two or more 
courses of masonry topped by an open grill, above which is seen 
the entablature, sometimes embellished with palmettes and scroll- 
work. H. Jordan justly infers that this peculiar building was not, to 
speak strictly, an aedes at all, but rather a double archway, a zanus 
Geminus as the Romans themselves termed it*, Sheathed through- 
out with bronze® it would aptly represent the bronze sky of early 
belief*—a similitude borne out by its arched vault and its four 
supporting pillars’. 


fig. 244), Rasche Lex. Mum. ii. 76, iv. 504 f., Suppl. iii. 70, A. Boutkowski Déctionnatre 
numismatique Leipzig 1878 p. 327 no. 717, Cohen Monn. emb. rom.” i. 79 no. 110, 
Stevenson—Smith— Madden Dect. Rom. Coins p. 473- Morell’s two specimens are hardly 
above suspicion. The first was derived from H. Goltz, the second from J. Oisel; and 
Goltz, though an enthusiast, was no critic (Babelon Wonn. gr. rom. 1. 1. 102 ff.). 

1 Morell. 7hes. Num. Imp. Rom. ii. 72. pl. 4, 9 and 10, Rasche Lex. Mum. iv. 506 f., 
Vi. 340, 343, Suppl. iii. 70, Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” i. 287 nos. 114 and 115, Mm. Rollin 
et Feuardent Collection 7. £. Monnaies romaines en or Paris 1gog p. 8 no. 40 pl. 2 (=my 
fig. 245). 

> Morell. Zhes. Num. Imp. Rom. ii. 1o1 pl. 9,18 and 19, Rasche Lex. Num. iv. 506 f., 
vi. 341 ff., Suppl. iii. 70, T. L. Donaldson Architectura Numismatica London 1859 p. 48 ff. 
no. 12 (pl.), Cohen AZonn. emp. rom.” i. 289 f. nos. 133, 134, 136—140, 143 fig., 144—146, 
152, 154, 155, 158—162, R. Weil in Baumeister Denkm. i. 235 fig. 206, Stevenson— 
Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins p. 473f. fig., J. Toutain in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. 
Ant. iil. 610 fig. 4140. Figs. 246—249 are from specimens in my collection. 

® Morell. Thes. Num. Imp. Rom. ii. 105 pl. 10, 13—15, Rasche Lex. Num. iv. 506 f., 
vi. 341 ff., Suppl. iii. 70, Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” i. 288 ff. nos. 132, 0355, L4i, c4o. 
148—151, 153, 156, 157, 163—177. Figs. 250, 251 are from specimens in my collection. 

4H. Jordan 7opographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1885 i. 2. 351f., cp. 26. 
p. 346 n. 45. 

° This appears from an interesting description in Prokop. de bell. Goth. 1. 25 (cp. 
Supra p. 335n. 3) 6 Te vews amas xadkods ev TH (7G cod. K. om. cod. L.) retpayavy 
oXHuaTL EaTnke, TOTODTOS mEévTOL (so cod. K. wey cod. L.), doov (cos cod. K.) 7d d&ya\ua 
oxerrew. ore d€ xakodv obx Haooov 7) mnxXGv TévTE TO yaya TOUT, TA wev GAN TavTA 
Eupepes avOpwmrw, durpbcwmrov dérHy kepadiy éxov, kal Tov mporwmow (Too mpogwrov cod. L.) 
Adrepov wev mpos avicxovta, Td dé erepov mpos SUovTa jALov Térpamrat. Ovpar Te xadkal ed’ 
exaTépy mpocwmy elatv, ds 57 év wev elphyy Kal d-yaots mpdyuacw (om. cod. L.) émrider bat 
TO Tadardy ‘Pwpator evourfov, rodeuou d€ opiow dvTos avéwyov (dveOyOac cod. L.). x.7-A. 

° To the passages cited supra i. 632 n. 3 add Lact. de ofificio Det 17 (Corp. Vindob. 
XXVII. 56, 12 ff. Brandt) an si mihi quispiam dixerit aeneum esse caelum aut vitreum aut, 
ut Empedocles ait, aerem glaciatum, statimne adsentiar, quia caelum ex qua materia sit 
ignorem ? 

7 Supra p. 141. 


The Triumphal Arch 250 


(4) The Triumphal Arch. 


Incidentally this conception will serve to clear up a long-standing 
puzzle, the original character and purpose of the triumphal arch. 
P. Graef?, who, in a list large but by no means exhaustive, enumerates 
one hundred and twenty-five such arches, scattered throughout the 
Roman empire and ranging in date from the middle of the first 
century B.C.* to the middle of the fourth century A D.*, states frankly 
that nothing certain is known with regard to the early history of 
the type’. The various theories that have been propounded are 
conveniently summarised and discussed by G. Spano®. Most recent 
critics, it appears, himself included, have looked to the Greeks of the 
Hellenistic age as the originators of this and other such architectural 
structures. Not so A. L. Frothingham, who after a wide survey of 
the facts concluded that the true parent of the triumphal arch was 
the old Roman zazus*. Frothingham argued (a) that in early days, 
when Rome consisted in a group of neighbouring tribes, each tribe 


1 P, Graef ‘Triumph- und Ehrenbégen’ in Baumeister Derkm. iii. 1865—1899 with 
pls. 802—85 and numerous figs. (an article of capital importance). C. D. Curtis ‘ Roman 
Monumental Arches’ in the Supplementary Papers of the American School of Classical 
Studies in Rome New York 1908 ii. 26—83 with 18 figs. discusses the origin of triumphal 
arches and describes 73 specimens in chronological order (Am. Journ. Arch. 1918 xxii. 
218). See also J. Guadet in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 391—394, J. H. Flather 
and W. Smith in Smith—Wayte—Marindin Dict. Ant. i. 172—174, H. Wolfflin in the 
Repertorium fiir Kunstwissenschaft 1893 xvi. 11 ff, O. Puchstein in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. ii. 603606, C. Huelsen ‘Zu den rémischen Ehrenbégen’ in the Festschrift 
au Otto Hirschfeld’s 60. Geburtstag Berlin 1903 pp. 423—430, Durm Baukunst d. Rom.” 
pp. 718—733- 

> The arch of Satzt Remy, the ancient Glanum in Gallia Narbonensis, probably com- 
memorates the victory of Iulius Caesar over Vercingetorix and the capture of Alesia 
in 52 B.C. 

5 The arch of XAezms, anciently Durocortorum the chief town of the Remi in Belgica 
Secunda, is said to have been erected by Julian in 360 a.D. 

It is noteworthy that both the earliest and the latest datable examples of triumpnal 
arches are to be found in France, which can boast fourteen extant monuments of the sort 
(Rome ro, rest of Italy 26, France 14, Germany 1, Spain 6, Africa 54, Asia and other 
lands 20: see P. Graef Joc. cz¢. p. 1866). 

4 P. Graef doc. czt. p. 1871. 

° G. Spano ‘ L’origine degli archi onorari e trionfali romani’ in Veafo.7s 1903 i. 144 ff. 

6 A. L. Frothingham ‘De la véritable signification des monuments romains qu’on 
appelle ‘‘ Arcs de Triomphe”’ in the Rev. Arch. 1905 ii. 216—230. Cp. W. Warde Fowler 
Roman Essays and Interpretations Oxford 1920 p. 73 n. 2 (7d. ‘ Passing under the Yoke’ 
in the Class. Rev. 1913 xxvii. 48 ff.) : ‘ Nearly all forms of Roman art are now thought 
to be traceable to Greek originals, and without doubt the ornamentations of the triumphal 
arches which have survived are Hellenistic; but such a thing as a triumphal arch is not 
known in Hellas, and I believe that the idea is far more likely to be Roman.’ Mr Warde 
Fowler argues that the zea, the ¢zg¢//um, and the porta triumphalis alike imply a ‘rite 
de passage,’ in which human beings pass through a narrow space in order to be rid of 
disease, blood-guiltiness, or some other trouble. He is not, of course, committed to Mr 
Frothingham’s views, still less to mine. 


360 The Triumphal Arch 


had its separate zazws on the line of its own pomoerium (tanus 
Curtatius, tanus Carmentalis, tanus Quirinus), such tani being, not 
gates in a fortified wall, but arches built outside to commemorate 
events of communal importance and placed under the protection of 
the communal god Ianus; (0) that the unified Servian state similarly 
had its zanus, the porta triumphalis, on the enlarged pomoerial line 
of the vza Flamznza; and (c) that this famous portal was copied and 
re-copied by communal arches far and wide through the dominions 


(yeas Z 
UIA = £9 
LONE eh 





Fig. 254. 


of imperial Rome. Now, without necessarily endorsing the precise 
lineage traced by Frothingham, we must surely admit that in point 
of shape the triumphal arch! is indistinguishable from the arch of 
Tanus; even the four-sided variety of the former? can be paralleled 
by the four-sided variety of the latter*; and, if the zanws Geminus 
had side-windows (figs. 246—251), so on occasion had the triumphal 
arch (fig. 252)4. Accordingly, I should conjecture’ that in its signifi- 
cance too the avcus resembled the zavas—in short that it represented 


1 See e.g. the restoration of Titus’ Arch at Rome as given by P. Graef Joc. cit. p. 1867 
pl. 82 fig. 1969 after L. Canina Z’architettura romana Roma 1834 pl. 188. 

> P. Graef Joc. ct. p. 1889 ff. fig. 1991 describes and illustrates the four-sided arch 
erected at Oea in Tripolitana (Z¥2fol’) by C. Calpurnius Celsus and dedicated by Ser. 
Cornelius Scipio Salvidienus Orfitus, when proconsul of Africa in 162/3 or 163/4 A.D., to 
Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus (Cor. czscr. Lat. viii no. 24, cp. viii Suppl. no. 10999, 
with Groag in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iv. 1508). Within the coffered arches the 
monument is roofed with a low dome resting on an octagonal cornice. 

* P. Graef loc. cit. p. 1880 pl. 80 fig. 6 and pl. 81 fig. 8 gives a description, ground- 
plan, and restored elevation of the so-called zanzs Quadrifrons in the Forum Boarium at 
Rome, which was probably erected by Septimius Severus. See further L. Rossini Gi archi 
trionfali onorarii e funebri degli antichi Romani Romae 1836 pl. 62, L. Canina Gi edifizi 
di Roma antica Romae 1848—1856 iv pl. 253 f., H. Jordan Topographie der Stadt Rom 
am Alterthum Berlin 1885 i. 2. 470—472, H. Kiepert et C. Huelsen Hormae urbis Romae 
antiquae~ Berolini 1912 p. 100. 

4 Morell. Zhes. Num. Imp. Rom. ii. 169 pl. 6, « from a ‘first brass’ of Galba, Cohen 
Monn. emp. rom. i. 245 no. 246 pl. 13 (=my fig. 252), 74.7 i. 341 no. 348 fig. 

° Pace Durm Baukunst d. Rim.? p. 732 ‘Der Form und nicht der Bedeutung nach 
sind hier noch die eingangs erwahnten /avzZ einzustellen,’ etc. 


The Triumphal Arch 361 


the heavenly vault!, and that the triumphing general whose statue 
stood upon it (fig. 253)? was viewed as an embodiment of the sky- 
god uplifted on his mimic sky*. This suggestion is corroborated by 
a ‘first brass’ of Trajan, which displays (fig. 254)‘ a fine triumphal 
arch® supporting the emperor’s chariot and explicitly dedicated 
10M, ‘to Iupiter Best and Greatest.’ It thus appears that such 
modern structures as the Arc de Triomphe or the Marble Arch have 
behind them a long classical history, in which religious beliefs no 
less than military and political considerations have played their part. 
But the significance of the design has progressively dwindled; and 
in these democratic days the monument that once stood for apo- 
theosis merely marks a stage for the motor-omnibus. 


1 Supra p. 428. 

2 Morell. Zhes. Num. Imp. Rom. ii. 99 pl. 9, 12, Rasche Lex. Mum. i. 1062 f., viii. 
96, Suppl. i. 1018, T. L. Donaldson Architectura numismatica London 1859 p. 222 ff. 
fig. 56, Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” i. 299 f. nos. 306—310, Stevenson—Smith— Madden 
Dict. Rom. Coins p. 77 fig. Fig. 253 is from a specimen in my collection: oby. 
[im]p[N JEROCAESARAVGPONTMAXTRPOTP[P]. laureate head of Nero to left; rev. Ss Cc 
triumphal arch. Cp. Tac. azz. 13. 41, 15. 18. 

3 Plin. zat. hist. 34. 27 columnarum ratio erat attolli (v.Z. tolli) super (supra codd. 
V. d.h.) ceteros mortales, quod et arcus significant novicio invento. — 

4 Rasche Lex. Mum. i. 1065, iv. 806, viii. 1557, Suppl. i. rorg, T. L. Donaldson 
Architectura numismatica London 1859 p. 228 ff. fig. 58, Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” 
il. 74 f. nos. 547, 548, Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins p. 78 f. fig. (=my 
fig. 254)- 

® Cohen Joc. cit. says ‘Facade du temple de Jupiter, en forme d’arc de triomphe ’— 
which is absurd. Dion Cass. 68. 29 informs us that a triumphal arch was being prepared 
for Trajan in his own Forum during the year 116 A.D. Excavations in 1594 (F. Vacca 
‘Memorie di varie antichita trovate in diversi luoghi della citta di Roma nell’ anno 1594’ 
§ g published by T. Schreiber in the Ber. sachs. Gesellsch. ad. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 
1881 p. 59, 15 ff.) and again in 1863 (A. Pellegrini ‘Arco di Trajano’ in the Bud/. d. Znst. 
1863 pp- 78—8o) brought to light its foundations, together with numerous architectural 
and sculptural fragments, under the old church of S. Maria in Campo Carleo, which in 
the sixteenth century bore the name of Sfolta Christi or Spoglia Cristo. It was formerly 
assumed that the four Trajanic reliefs representing a battle with Dacians, which now 
embellish the Arch of Constantine (for a convenient publication with a summary of recent 
controversy see Reinach Rép. Relzefs i. 238 ff.), belonged originally to this Arch of Trajan. 
The assumption, disputed by E. Petersen in the Rom. AZitth. 188o9 iv. 314 ff. but reaffirmed 
by R. Lanciani 7he Ruins and Excavations of Ancient Rome London 1897 p. 193, may 
well be sound; for on the first of the slabs in question the emperor, whose head has been 
replaced by that of Constantine, is conducted by Roma and Victoria towards an Arch 
(G. P. Bellori Veteres arcus Augustorum triumphis insignes Rome 1690 pl. 42=Reinach 
Rép. Reliefs i. 252 no. 1, Brunn—Bruckmann Denkm. der gr. und rom. Sculpt. pl. 580, 
r with text by J. Sieveking, Mrs A. Strong Roman Sculpture from Augustus to 
Constantine London 1907 p. 157 ff. pl. 48, 4 from a photograph by Anderson). 

H. Kiepert et C. Huelsen Formae urbis Romae antiguae Berolini 1912 p. 54 regard 
the coin illustrated in my fig. 254 as the Arch of Trajan in vegzo i recorded by the curzosem 
urbis regionum xiv and notitia regionum urbis xiv reg. 1 (H. Jordan Zopographie der 
Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin £871 ii. 542), But that was originally a triple arch 
(H. Jordan—C. Huelsen 7opographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1907 1. 3- 216 f.). 


362 The goddess under the Arch 


(u) The goddess under the Arch. 


Again, the representation of the sky as an arch will explain why 
various ancient goddesses of the earth appear either immediately 
beneath, or in close connexion with, an arcuated structure. The 
Hittite Chipa under her winged arch? is a case in point. Similarly, 





Fig. 260. 


Fig. 259. 
on a bronze medallion of Faustina Iunior (fig. 255)? Isis is enthroned 
beneath a decorative arch resting on two columns with short flank- 
ing walls. Ona copper of Gallienus struck at Synnada in Phrygia 


1 Supra i. 644 fig. 504. 
2 Sir J. Evans in the Mem. Chron. Third Series 1896 xvi. 48 ff. pl. 5, 2, Gnecchi 


Medagl. Rom. ii. 41 no. 24 pl. 68, g=my fig. 255. 


Tigillum Sororium and Jupiter Tigi//us 363 


(fig. 256)! Semele (?), crowned and sceptred, with the infant Dio- 
nysos (?) on her arm and a goat at her feet, stands beneath a dotted 
vault, which rises from two Corinthian columns. Imperial coppers 
from Sinope (fig. 257)? show Nemesis under a two-pillared arcade. 
Others from Philadelpheia (fig. 258)* represent Aphrodite beneath 
an arch with twisted columns. Others again from Pogla in Pisidia 
(figs. 259, 260)* have an aniconic goddess, resembling Artemis 
Pergatva, overarched by a distyle canopy. Examples such as these— 
and the list could be lengthened—confirm my previous® conjecture 
that the gateway or arch, so noticeable a feature in the old-fashioned 
Diana-cults of central Italy, originally signified the sky raised on 
its supports. Dzana was thereby associated with Dianus. 


(v) The Tigillum Sororium and Iupiter Tigillus. 


And here we must notice one of the most curious monuments to 
be seen in ancient Rome, the 77zg7//um Sororium or ‘Sister’s Beam’, 
which spanned a narrow lane leading down from the Carinae to the 
Vicus Cuprius’. It was connected by tradition® with the famous 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 404 no. 63, Imhoof-Blumer Gr. Miinzen p. 225 
no. 744a. Fig. 256 is from a specimen in my collection. 

For the same group without the vault see Brz¢. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 402 pl. 47, 3 
Diadumenian Caesar, Imhoof-Blumer Jon. gv. p. 413 no. 158 guasi-autonomous, no. 
161 Gordian iti, id. Gr. Miinzen p. 225 nos. 744 Macrinus and 744b pl. 13, 4 Salonina, 
2d. Kleinas. Miinzen i. 294 no. 17 guasi-autonomous, 296 no. 24 pl. g, 18 Diadumenian 
Caesar. B. V. Head in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins locc. citt. and in his Hist. num.” p. 686 
describes the type as Amaltheia carrying the infant Zeus; and Imhoof-Blumer Zocc. cé¢t. 
had done the same before him. But cp. sera i. 706 fig. 522, which favours the inter- 
pretation given in the text. 

? Waddington—Babelon—Reinach Monn. gr. d’As. Min. i. 204 pl. 27, 33 Lulia 
Domna, 207 pl. 28, 16 Maximinus, 208 pl. 28, 22 Tranquillina and pl. 28, 24 (=my 
fig. 257) Philippus Iunior, 209 no. 162 Trajan Decius= Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Pontus, etc. 
p- 102 pl. 23, ro. 

* Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 199 pl. 22, 9 (=my fig. 258) M. Aurelius, cp. p. 205 
no. 96 Severus Alexander, Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 461 pl. 56, 2 Severus Alexander, 
F. Imhoof-Blumer Lydische Stadtmiinzen Genf—Leipzig 1897 p. 124 pl. 5, 14 time of 
M. Aurelius. 

4 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lycia, etc. p. 236 pl. 37, 7 (=my fig. 259) Antoninus Pius, 
p. 237 pl. 37, 8 (=my fig. 260) Philippus Iunior= Anson Mum. Gr. v. 25 nos. 179 and 
181 pl. 5, 2d. zd. v. 25 no. 180 Iulia Domna, Head Ast. num.” p. 709. 

5 Supra p. 160. 

° O. Gilbert Geschichte und Topographie der Stadt Rom im Altertum Leipzig 1883— 
1885 i. 178 ff., ii. 55 ff., W. Warde Fowler Zhe Roman Festivals London 1899 p. 237 ff., 
H. Usener ‘ Zwillingsbildung’ in the S¢vena Helbigiana Lipsiae 1900 p. 320 (=2d. Kleine 
Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 1913 iv. 340), O. Richter 7opographie der Stadt Rom Miinchen 
I9OI pp. 311, 343, H. Jordan—C. Huelsen Zopographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum 
Berlin 1907 i. 3. 322f., W. F. Otto ‘ Rémische ‘‘Sondergétter”’ in the Rhezx. Mus. 
1909 lxiv. 466— 468. 

7 Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 3. 22. 

8 Liv. 1. 24—26, Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 3. 13—22, Fest. p. 297 @ 11 ff. Miiller, p. 380, 


364 Tigillum Sororium and \upiter Tigz/lus 


fight between the triplets of Alba and the triplets of Rome. Horatius, 
the sole survivor, had stabbed his sister for lamenting the loss of 
her lover, one of the vanquished Curiatii. Condemned to death by 
the duov7ri, Horatius appealed to the people, who acquitted him of 
the capital charge, but bade his father make satisfaction for the 
offence. The elder Horatius thereupon offered certain expiatory 
sacrifices, which were afterwards perpetuated by the family, laid a 
beam across the street, and caused his son with covered head to 
pass under it as under a yoke. This beam, adds Livy’, was kept in 
constant repair at the public expense. Indeed, it is mentioned as 
still existing by more than one fourth-century writer’. With regard 
to its construction our authorities are not in exact agreement. 
Dionysios of Halikarnassos, who was long resident in Rome (30—8 
B.C. or later) and no doubt knew the locality well, states that 
the beam was let into a wall at either end*. But Pompeius Festus, 
presumably epitomising the account given by M. Verrius Flaccus 
(c. IO B.C.), asserts that the beam rested on a couple of uprights’. 
Be that as it may, both Dionysios and Festus speak of two altars, 
which stood beneath it® and were dedicated to Iuno Sovorza and to 
lanus Curzatius respectively’. Dionysios’ observation that the beam 
was ‘honoured with sacrifices by the Romans every year*’ is con- 
firmed by the fragmentary calendar of the Arval Brothers’, which 
against the first of October—a day appropriate both to Ianus and to 
Iuno—has the entry : ‘(Sacrifice) to the Sister's Beam at the Cross- 
road of Acilius.’ T. Mommsen drew attention to the surprising fact 
that the Beam itself is here the object of worship”. This, however, 
ceases to surprise us, when we remember that the Beam was a sort 


5 ff. Lindsay, cp. Paul. ex Fest. p. 307, 2 f. Miiller, p. 399, 2 ff. Lindsay, Aur. Vict. de 
vir. tll. 4. 5—g, schol. Bob. zz Cic. pro Mil. 7 p. 63, 4 ff. Hildebrandt. 

1 In the Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 369 I suggested that the ‘ yoke’ under which conquered 
troops were made to pass, being an erection of three £’\a (Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 3. 22) 
or hastae (Liv. 3. 28), may well have been a symbol of Ianus Qzzrznws. 

IRs Ty Ger, 

3 Aur. Vict. de vir. zl]. 4. 9, curiosum urbis regionum xiv and notitza regionum urbis 
xiv reg. 4 (H. Jordan Yopographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1871 ii. 546), 
schol. Bob. 27 Cic. pro Mil. 7 p. 64, 2 ff. Hildebrandt. 

4 Dion. Hal. anzt. Rom. 3. 22. 

> Fest. p. 297 a@ 24f. Miiller, p. 380, 18 f. Lindsay. 

§ Cp. Schol. Bob. zz Cic. pro Mil. 7 p. 64, 2 ff. Hildebrandt. 

7 Fest. p. 297 a 27f. Miiller, p. 380, 21 f. Lindsay. 

8 Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 3. 22. 

® G. B. De Rossi in the Bul. d. Just. 1860 p. 71 ff. with fig. 

10 T. Mommsen in the Corf. inscr. Lat. i. 1? p. 330 K-ocT+(Oct. 1).—N Tigillo 
soror(io) ad compitum Acili ary. (éeter add. posteriora et scriptum sic, ut posstt trahi ad 
Oct. 2); Tigill(o) sor(orio) pavz. ...[psum tigillum pro. numine cultum esse (aliter enim 
non videntur accipi posse) docuerunt nos fasti Arvalium. 


The god under the Arch 365 


of zanus' and as such represented that primitive sanctity, the animate 
Sky Ianus the celestial roof was, in fact, fitly embodied in the 
Tigillum and as yet required no other effigy. His association with 
Iuno suggests that he here played the part of Iupiter. Augustine, 
after insisting that Ianus and [upiter are but diverse forms of the 
same deity’, remarks that Iupiter was named 77gzd/us ‘because, 
like a Beam, he kept the world together and supported -it*’ 


(&) The god under the Arch. 


When Ianus passed from the zoistic® to the anthropomorphic 
stage, he was represented as a double-faced deity standing beneath 





the arch that had been his former self. Such was the bronze statue 
five cubits high, which looked east and west in the zanus Gemzinus of 


' O. Gilbert Geschichte und Topographie der Stadt Rom im Altertum Leipzig 1883— 
1885 i. 180 ff., ii. 61, O. Richter in Baumeister Deshm. ill. 1528, za. Topographie der 
Stadt Rom* Miinchen rgor p. 311, W. H. Roscher in Roscher Lex. Jyh. ii. 21, and 
Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rém.* p. 104 all rightly regard this trixylon as a zanus. W. F. Otto 
‘Romische Sondergotter’ in the Rheiz. Aus. 1909 Ixiv. 466 f. denies it. Cp. Cat. 67. 
37 ff. ianua...suffixa tigillo. 

2 Supra p. 354 ff. 3 Supra p. 328 n. 6. 

4 Aug. de civ. Dei 7. 11 dixerunt eum (sc. lovem)...Tigillum...quod tamquam tigillus 
mundum contineret ac sustineret... puto inter se propinquiora esse causas rerum atque 
primordia, propter quas res unum mundum duos deos esse voluerunt, Iovem atque Ianum, 
quam continere mundum et mammam dare animalibus ; nec tamen propter haec opera duo 
tam longe inter se vi et dignitate diversa duo dii esse compulsi sunt; sed unus [uppiter 
propter illud Tigillus, propter hoc Ruminus appellatus est. 

In Folk-Lore 1905 xvi. 279 n. 6 I mistakenly inferred from this passage that Iupiter 
Tigillus owed his appellation to some reminiscence of the world-tree. I now hold that 
he was the Latin equivalent of an earlier Ianus, whose beam was horizontal, not vertical. 
E. Pais Ancient Legends of Roman History trans. M. E. Cosenza London 1906 p. 156 
speaks of ‘ceremonies in honor of Jupiter Tigillus and Juno Sororia.’ But the phrase 
oversteps our data. J. A. Hartung Die Reliyion der Romer Erlangen 1836 ii. 43 was 
content to say: ‘Zuerst richtet er ein Joch auf, sororium tigillum genannt, mit Ein- 
willigung, wie es scheint, des Jupiter 7igi//us.’ And even that is more than we really 
know. ; 

5 Supra i. 240. 4. 


366 The god under the Arch 


the Forum'. And such is the god as he appears on a bronze medal- 









ODG 


ny | 


Dauner eeyeccaqiuricaneeys tll 
WN: 1) 


ICT Lat 








UTURUAMUAMCRUMCQAUURUCERARAOY COR CLOT GI % 


fi 
<0 


= (\ 


SSs 
IF) : 


) 


gi \ eee 


















i | ) 
rf / 


Nt, . 







Fig. 264. 


lion (fig. 261)? and coins (figs. 262, 263)? of Commodus. In respect of 


1 Supra p. 430 n. g. It was dedicated, according to Plin. zat. hist. 34. 33, by Numa. 
See, however, B. R. Burchett Janus in Roman Life and Cult Menasha, Wisconsin 1918 
pp. 27—29 (‘Statues of Janus’). 

* Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” iii. 298 no. 517, Gnecchi Aedagl. Rom. ii. 62 no. 94 pl. 84, 
5 (=my fig. 261), Kubitschek Rom. Medatllons Wien p. 7 no. 61 pl. 5. 

3 Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” iii. 298 no. 518 ‘middle brass.’ Fig. 262 is from a ‘ first 
brass’ of similar types belonging to Mr C, T. Seltman; fig. 263, from another in my 
collection: obv. M COMMODVSANTP FELIXAVG BRIT Head of Commodus, laureate, to 


Ianus bifrontal on coins 367 


the arch he is still comparable with Iupiter, who on a Roman bronze 
lamp stands with thunderbolt and sceptre underneath an arch resting 
on two Corinthian columns (fig. 264)'. Similarly in modern Hindu 





Fig. 265 a. Fig. 265 4. Fig. 266. 


art Brahma is a four-faced (fig. 265), Vishnu a one-faced god 
(fig. 266) seated above a lotus beneath a starry arch”. 


(0) Ianus bifrontal on coins. 


The really distinctive feature of the anthropomorphic Ianus is, 
of course, his double face. On republican and imperial coins he 
is almost* invariably bifrontal. Denarii of the gens Furia, struck 


right; vev. PMTRPX[III]MP vii[t] CosvpP s c Ianus holding long sceptre, on a base 
beneath an arch. 

' Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 326 no. 2519= Brit. Mus. Cat. Lamps p. 8 no. 38 pl. 2 
(=my fig. 264). Height 7? inches. In neither publication does Mr H. B. Walters give 
the history of this interesting lamp. Very similar, but not (apparently) identical, is one 
figured by Montfaucon Antiquity Explained trans. D. Humphreys London 1722 v. 143 
pl. 39 no. 1 and by F. Creuzer Symbolik und Mythologie’ Leipzig and Darmstadt 1841 iii. 
207 f. pl. 9, 41 after G. P. Bellori Le antiche lucerne sepolcrali figurate Roma 1704 Pt. ii. 
1 pl. 1. Bellori’s interpretation ‘ /zpiter Custos,’ on account of the dog curled up round 
the hole for the wick, is fanciful. The dog, as a symbol of watchfulness, is a frequent 
ornament on lamps (e.g. Brit. Mus. Cat. Lamps p. 2 no. 4 pl. 1, p. 6 no. 26 fig. 5, p. 12 
no. 65 pl. 8, p. 13 no. 68 pl. 7, p. 16 no. 93, p. 62 no. 430 and no. 431 pl. Ir, p. go 
no. 594, p- 174 nO. 1155 and no. 1156 fig. 245, p. 209 no. 1394, p- 225 no. 1498 pl. 37), 
and need not be viewed as an attribute of Iupiter. The phalloid horns are of course pro- 
phylactic. 

* Figs. 265 and 266 are from two alabaster carvings in my possession. Height: 64% ins. 


3 Infra § 3 (a) v (0) fin. 


368 Ianus bifrontal on coins 


c. 92 B.C., have for obverse type a full-bearded head of Ianus 
(fig. 267)', while others of the gens Fonteza, struck c. 91 B.C., show a 





slightly-bearded head (fig. 268)*, probably meant for Fontus, eponym 
of the clan, who was said to have been a son of Ianus*. Heavy asses 


1 Morell. 7hes. Num. Fam. Rom. i. 189f. pl. Furia, 3, Babelon Monz. rép. rom. i. 
524f. fig., Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. ii. 283 pl. 94, 5 and 6. Fig. 267 is from a 
specimen in my collection. 

2 Morell. Zhes. Num. Fam. Rom. i. 180f. pl. Fonteia, 1, Babelon Monn. rép. rom. 
i. 499 f. fig., Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. ii. 292 f. pl. 94, 12—14. Fig. 268 is from 
a specimen of mine. 

Since the Furii and the Fonteii are the only Roman families to put a Janiform head 
on their denavti, and since both of them appear to have originated in Tusculum (for the 
Furii see F. Miinzer in Pauly—Wissowa Real- Luc. vii. 315; for the Fonteii, ezezd. 26. vi. 
2841), it is possible that the double heads, like those of the Dioskouroi on other coins of 
the gens Fonteia (id. 7b. vi. 2841: cp. M. Albert Le caulte de Castor et Pollux en Italie 
Paris 1883 p. 13 ff.), perpetuated the memory of a Tusculan cult. 

3 Arnob. adv. nat. 3.29 Ianum, quem ferunt Caelo atque Hecata procreatum in Italia 
regnasse primum, Ianiculi oppidi conditorem, patrem Fonti, Vulturni generum, Iuturnae 
maritum. This genealogy has been labelled ‘spatere Kombination’ (Boehm in Pauly— 
Wissowa “eal-Enc. vi. 2839). But, in view of the ava Fontis (Cic. de leg. 2. 56) near the 
Ianiculum (H. Jordan—C. Huelsen Zopfographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 


Ianus bifrontal on coins 369 


with the types of Ianus and Mercurius, issued at Rome between 
c. 290 and ¢ 240 B.C., represent the former god as _ beardless 


Fig. 271. 





(figs. 269, 270)'—a point in which they agree with the contemporary 


1907 i. 3. 624), it was at least dzex ¢rouvée. Similarly Lambaesis in Numidia worshipped 
both Ianus Pater (Corp. inscr. Lat. viii no. 2608=Dessau Jnscr. Lat, sel. no. 3324 Tani 
Patro (szc)|etc.) and Fons (Corp. inscr. Lat. viii no. 2656, 2 aedem Fontis etc.). Iupiter, 
like Ianus, came to be associated with fountain-powers : Cor. inscr. Lat. vi no. 404 (cp. 
no. 30756)=Dessau Jmscr. Lat. sel. no. 3062 (Rome) Iovi Optimd Maximo | Caelestino, 
Fontibus, et | Minervde etc., Corp. inscr. Lat. viii no. 4291=Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. 
no. 3063 (Lambaesis) Iovi (v./. lovo) | Propagatori | Conservatori | et Genio Fontis, etc. 

1 E. J. Haeberlin 4es grave Frankfurt a. M. 1910 p. 76 Tafelband pl. 36, 1 (=my 
fig. 269) in the Museo Kircheriano weighing 27015 grammes and pl. 36, 3 (=my fig. 270) 
at Copenhagen weighing 262°70 grammes. The former specimen is figured also by 
Garrucci Mon. Jt. ant. p. 19 pl. 36, 1. See further Garrucci 76. p. 20 pl. 37, 1, G. F. Hill 
Historical Roman Coins London 1909 p. 18 pl. 5, 8, p- 24f. 


Crete 24 


370 Ianus bifrontal on coins 


series of Romano-Campanian silver1.. Certain electrum pieces, struck 
—it would seem—at Capua during the occupation of that town by 
the Carthaginians in the Hannibalic war (216—2I1I B.C.), give the 
twofold face a frankly feminine cast and, adding a corn-wreath, 
transform the Italian Ianus into a Punic Persephone (fig. 271)”. 





Fig. 273. 





Fig. 274. 


In imperial times Commodus was evidently a special devotee of 
the old sky-god. Apart from the mintages already mentioned?, he 
placed on his bronze medallions sometimes the familiar bust of 
Ianus (fig. 272), sometimes a Janiform novelty consisting of his own 
face combined with that of L[upiter(?) his a/ter ego (figs. 273, 274)’. 


1 Supra p. 331. 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. ii. 139f. pl. 75, 14 (=my fig. 271), G. F. Hill 
Historical Roman Coins London rgog p. 50f. pl. 10, 28. The correct attribution and 
dating of these coins is due to P. Gardner in the Mum. Chron, Third Series 1884 iv. 
220—224. 

3 Supra p. 366. 

+ Gnecchi Medagl. Rom. ii. 62 no. g2 and no. 93 pl. 84, 4 (=my fig. 272), Cohen 
Monn. emp. rom.* iii. 298 no. 516 fig. The specimen reproduced above is from F. Gnecchi’s 
collection. The medallion was struck in 187 A.D., and shows the god with a paludamentum 
over his shoulder. 

5 Gnecchi AZedagl. Rom. ii. 66 no. 131 pl. 87, 1, Brit. Mus. Cat. Medallions p. 25 
no. 20 pl. 32, 1, Frohner A/éd. emp. rom. p. 131 fig. (=my fig. 273), Kubitschek dom. 
Medaillons Wien p. 7 no. 62 pl. § (=my fig. 274), Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” iii. 322 
no. 717 fig. These medallions were struck in 187 A.D. 


Ianus bifrontal on coins 291 


For this bold and somewhat grotesque device a precedent may be 
found in the action of Sex. Pompeius Magnus Pius, the younger son 
of the triumvir, who ¢c. 45—44 B.C. struck asses in Spain bearing 
as obverse design a head of Ianus with the features of Cn. Pompeius 
Magnus (fig. 275)!. Commodus in turn was followed by Caracalla, 
who a few years later (214 A.D.) visited Thrace and, posing as 
Alexander ved?vivus, had himself painted in the Janiform type of 





Fig. 275. Fig. 276. 


‘Alexander and Antoninus?’ A propos of Commodus, we must rule 
out one of his medallions (fig. 276), a bronze piece in the cabinet at 
Arolsen, published by E. Gerhard in 1861° and still accepted as 
genuine by W. H. Roscher in 18904 and by J. Toutain in 1899°. 
On it the emperor in the guise of Ianus, with one face bearded, the 
other beardless, holds a staff in his left hand and lays his right on 
a hoop (described by courtesy as an arch‘), from which the four 


Numismatists differ in naming the emperor’s partner. Gnecchi oc. cét. says ‘ Ercole’ ; 
H. Cohen Joc. czt., ‘Hercule’; H. A. Grueber in the A7zt. Mus. Cat. Medallions p. 25, 
‘Janus’; W. Frohner /oc. cit., ‘Jupiter’; W. Kubitschek /oc. cét., ‘ Juppiter.’ , 

1 Morell. Zhes. Mum. Fam. Rom. i. 334 f. pl. Pompeia 1, 5, Babelon Monn. rép. rom. 
li. 351 no. 20 fig., Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. ii. 371f. pl. ror, 13 and 14, 
A. Boutkowski Dictionnaire numismatique Leipzig 1881 p. 12 f. nos. 25, 26. I figure 
a specimen in my collection. 

Since Sex. Pompeius after the battle of Munda (45 5.c.) rallied the troops that had 
served under his father and brother, who both bore the name Cn. Pompeius Magnus, it 
is just conceivable that this Janiform head was intended to combine the paternal and 
fraternal features. Awrei of Sex. Pompeius, struck soon after 42 B.C., have obv. his own 
head in an oak-wreath, rev. the heads of his father and brother confronted (Morell. of. cé¢. 
i. 335 ff. pl. Pompeia 1, 6, Babelon of. cé¢. ii. 353 no. 24 fig., Brzt. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins 
Rep. ii. 561 pl. 120, g and 10, Boutkowski of. cz¢. p. 9g ff. no. 238, G. F. Hill Hestorical 
Roman Coins London 1909 p. 126 ff. pl. 13, 78). See further zz/ra p. 389 n. 2. 

> Herodian. 4. 8. 

3 E. Gerhard in the Arch. Zeit. 1861 xix. 137 pl. 147, 8 (=my fig. 276) and g with 
comments by F. Wieseler 2). pp. 138—r140. 

4 W. H. Roscher in his Lex. AZy#h. ii. 38, 52 fig. 

* J. Toutain in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iii. 612 fig. 4141. 

6 W. H. Roscher Joce. citt.: ‘seine R. legt er auf einen offenen Bogen (ianus=fores 
caeli),’ ‘die R. legt er auf einen Tanusbogen.’ 


24—2 


972 Ianus bifrontal on coins 


Seasons issue towards a boy symbolising the New Year. This 
bizarre medallion is, I think!, merely a tooled specimen of a type 





Fig. 279- 


first struck by Antoninus Pius in 158 A.D. (fig. 277)? and sub- 
sequently repeated by Commodus in 185 A.D. (fig. 278). The god 
is Iupiter*, not Ianus, and a Paris example of the later issue shows 


1 Mr G. F. Hill, with whom I have discussed the type, endorses my opinion. I see 
too that Frohner J/éd. emp. vom. p. 121 n. 1 has expressed the same doubt. 

2 Gnecchi Medagl. Rom. ii. 15 no. 54 pl. 48, 9 (=my fig. 277) from a specimen 
formerly in the Stroganoff, latterly in the Evans collection. 

% Gnecchi AZedagl. Rom. ii. 60 no. 75 pl. 83, 3 (=my fig. 278) from a specimen at 
Monaco, 76. no. 76, 2b. no. 77 pl. 83, 4, Brit. Mus. Cat. Medallions p. 24 no. 15 pl. 30, 2, 
Kubitschek Rom. Medatlions Wien p. 7 no. 57 pl. 4 (mounted and silvered to serve asa 
bulla), E. Gerhard in the Arch. Zezt. 1861 xix. 137 pl. 147, 6 and 7 with comments by 
F. Wieseler 26. pp. 137—140. 

4 Eckhel Doctr. num. vet.? vii. 113 already describes him as ‘Iuppiter.’ F. Wieseler 
in Miiller—Wieseler Denkm. d. alt. Kumstii. 4.65 pl. 74, 960 and in the 47ch. Zeit. loc. cit. 
says ‘Zeus’; H. A. Grueber in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Medallions p. 24, ‘Jupiter’; Gnecchi 
op. cit. ii. 60, ‘ Giove o il Secolo’ (cp. zzfra p. 373 n. 2). The notion of C. Lenormant 
Nouvelle galerie mythologique (Trésor de numismatique et de glyptique) Paris 1850 p. 135 
no. 8 pl. 42 that a specimen on which the god is apparently beardless (??) represents ‘ Le 
jeune empereur’ is justly ridiculed by F. Wieseler in the Arch. Zeit. loc. cit. ; but his own 
view that the medallion in question shows ‘ Helios-Apollon’ is not much better. Possibly 
Lenormant’s drawing (reproduced in the Avch. Zezt. 1861 xix pl. 147, 7) is incorrect. 


Ianus bifrontal on coins a73 


him with thunderbolt in lieu of sceptre (fig. 279). The symbolism 
is of the simplest. Iupiter as sky-god is sending forth from the 
orbits annuus or ‘circle of the year” the four Seasons laden with their 
gifts—a complementary design to that of Tellus the earth-goddess, 
who reclining beneath her vine witnesses the 
same four pass in gracious procession over the 
star-spangled globe (figs. 273, 274)*. 

The only exception to the bifrontality of 
Ianus traceable on the coins of Rome is more 
apparent than real. The quadruple effigy of 
the god, brought from Falerii in 241 B.c. and 
erected in a temple with four doors on the hha 
Forum Transitorium*, appears on a ‘second brass’ of Hadrian 
(fig. 280)°. But this fourfold type, which ultimately gave rise to 





? Frohner AZéd. emp. rom. p. 121f. fig. (=my fig. 279) ‘Jupiter,’ Cohen Monn. emp. 
vom." iii. 291 no. 474 fig. ‘Jupiter.’ This specimen is struck in two metals, yellow and 
red copper (Babelon Monn. gr. rom. i. 1. 667, 944 fig. 32). 

2 So Frohner Joc. cz¢. in allusion to Verg. Aen. 5. 46 (cp. 1. 269). The interpretation, 
however, is not certain. Eckhel Doctr. num. vet. vii. 113 f. drew attention to the fact 
that Commodus claimed to have restored the Gelden Age (Dion Cass. 72. 15, Lamprid. 
v. Commod. 14. 3), and observed that the Golden Age was represented on an aureus of 
Hadrian (Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” ii. 216 no. 1321, cp. 2d. ii. 216 no. 1322 the same coin 
in silver, fourrée) by a beardless, semi-draped figure (SAEC + AVR) standing within a hoop 
and carrying a globe surmounted by a phoenix. Again, the circle might be spatial rather 
than temporal: cp. Ov. fast. 1. 85 Iupiter arce sua totum cum spectet in orbem, etc. 

3 This type (TELLVS STABIL2¢a), introduced by Hadrian (Gnecchi AZedag/. Rom. iii.19 
no. go pl. 145, 12, Brit. Mus. Cat. Medallions p. 5 no. 17, Cohen Monn. emp. rom. ii. 
225 no. 1435), was copied by Faustina Iunior (Gnecchi of. cz¢. ii. 39 no. 5, Cohen of. cit.” 
iii. 154 no. 219), and by Commodus (Gnecchi of. czz. ii. 65 f. no. 125 pl. 86, 8, nos. 126— 
128, no. 129 pl. 86, g, no. 130 pl. 86, 10, no. 131 pl. 87, 1, Brzt. Mus. Cat. Medallions 
p- 25 no. 20 pl. 32, 1, no. 21, Frohner A/éd. emp. rom. p. 130 f. with four figs., of which 
the last = my fig. 273, Kubitschek Rom. MWedatllons Wien p. 7 no. 62 pl. 5 (=my fig. 274), 
Cohen of. cit.” ili. 322 no. 714 fig., nos. 715, 716, no. 717 fig.); also, with wider 
variations, by Antoninus Pius (Gnecchi of. cit. ii. 20 no. 97 pl. 54, 7, Brit. Mus. 
Cat. Medallions p.g no. 14 pl. 11, 2, Frohner of. cit. p. 72 fig., Cohen of. cit.” ii. 392 
no. 1168 fig.). 

4 Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 7. 607 and 12.198, Macrob. Sat. 1. 9. 13, Lyd. ae mens. 4.1 
p- 64, 4 ff Wiinsch. Cp. Mart. ef. 8. 2. 1 ff., 10. 28. 1 ff., Stat. sz/v. 4. 3. o f., Aug. de civ. 
Dei 7. 8, Isid. orig. 8. 11. 37. See further H. Jordan Zopographie der Stadt Rom im 
Alterthum Berlin 1885 i. 2. 449 with n. 18, W. H. Roscher in his Lex. Myth. ii. 25 f., 28, 
53» O. Richter Zopographie der Stadt Rom Miinchen 1g01 p. 114, B. R. Burchett Janus in 
Roman Life and Cult Menasha, Wisconsin 1918 pp. 28 f., 40. 

° Rasche Lex. Mum. iv. 514f., Suppl. iii. 74, Cohen Monn. emp. rom." ii. 129 no. 281 
(left hand on hip), no. 282 (right hand on hip). Cohen, who gives no illustration, simply 
ignores the third face of the god, though it is clearly enough shown in early publications 
such as Montfaucon Antiguity Explained trans. D. Humphreys London 1721 i. 18 pl. 5 
no. 19 or J. Harduin’s ed. of Plin. zat. hzst. ii pl. to, 1. Fig. 280 is from a specimen in 
my collection. In Fo/k-Lore 1965 xvi. 278 f. I wrongly took the type to be evidence of a 
triple Ianus, though I noted (7d. p. 278 n. 6) that R. Mowat in the Bulletin épigraphigue 
ili. 168 had regarded it as Ianus Quadrifrons with his fourth face concealed. 


374 Ianus bifrontal in ritual 


the mediaeval representations of January’, was after all a mere 
duplication of the twofold type. 


(7) Ianus bifrontal in ritual. 


The conception of Ianus as a double-faced deity was not without 
its influence on his ritual. Ioannes the Lydian, writing in the sixth 
century on the usage of his native town, says: 


‘Our own Philadelpheia still preserves a trace of the ancient belief. On the 
first day of the month (sc. January) there goes in procession no less a personage 
than Ianus himself, dressed up in a two-faced mask, and people call him 
Saturnus, identifying him with Kronos?’ 


The confusion of Ianus with Kronos no doubt presupposes the 
usual blunder Kronos = Chronos, which from the fifth century B.c. 
onwards® queered the course of Greek theology. But the interest of 
the passage lies in its record of a Ianus-mask. And of this there is 
much earlier monumental evidence. A. de Gregorio in his recent 
publication of prehistoric antiquities from Sicily has included a 
bronze belonging to the Prince of Torrebruna at Palermo (fig. 281)4, 
which represents a male dancer wearing a Janiform mask. This 
grotesque little figure is clad in a close-fitting fleecy costume, pre- 
sumably of sheep-skin, which reaches to elbows and knees, buttons 
down the chest, and is clasped about by a girdle or girdles. He 


1 Souid. s.v. "Iavovdpios, Kodin. rdtpia Kwvoravrwovmddews 2. 2 p. 152, 7 fi. Preger, 
Favorin. /ex. p. 922, 15 ff. Cp. supra p. 326, infra p. 374. 

2 Lyd. de mens. 4. 2 p. 65, 11 ff. Wiinsch év 77 Kad’ nuds Piradedpela ere Kal viv ixvos 
THS apxKadTnTos gwrerar ev yap TH Hucpa Tav Kadevday mpdecor éoxnuaricpévos avros dnbev 
6 "Tavés & dipdppw mpocdmw, Kal Sarodpvov a’tov xahovow olov Kpévov. 

J. Brand Popular Antiquities rev. Sir H. Ellis London 1849 i. 19 f.: ‘Upon the 
Circumcision, or New Year’s Day, the early Christians ran about masked, in imitation 
of the superstitions of the Gentiles. Against this practice Saint Maximus and Peter 
Chrysologus declaimed; whence in some of the very ancient missals we find written in 
the Mass for this day, ‘‘ Missa ad prohibendum ab Idolis.” See Maeri Hiero-Lexicon, 
p-156[D. Magri Hrerolexicon® Bononiz 1765 i. 505 f.].’ The pagan rites for Jan. 1 are 
denounced by Christian writers of s. iv—v: Io. Chrys. hom. in kalendas (xlviii. 953— 
962 Migne), Aug. sev. 197 ‘de calendis Januariis, contra paganos’ and 198 ‘de calendis 
Januariis, ii’ (xxxviii. 10211026 Migne), Asterios of Amaseia hom. 4 ‘adversus kalen- 
darum festum’ (xl. 215—226 Migne), Ambros. sevm. 7 ‘ de kalendis Januariis’ (xvii. 617 f. 
Migne), Prudent. c. Symme. 1. 237 ff., Petrus Chrysologus serm. 155 ‘de kalendis Januarii, 
quae varia gentium superstitione polluebantur’ (lii. 609—611 Migne). Cp. conc. Trull. 
can. 62, conc. Turon. it can. 17, conc. Tolet. tv can. 11. On the other side read Liban. 
or. g eis Tas KaNayas (i. 2. 393398 Foerster). 

° M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1495 ff., 1546 f. 

4 A. de Gregorio Lconografia delle collezioni preistoriche della Sicilia Palermo 1917 
p- 128 f. pl. 126, 14, 1>, 1¢ (=my fig. 281). Height o-106™. Not having seen the original, 
I can only assume the genuineness of this 4¢zarre little bronze. Gregorio’s sketch hardly 
inspires confidence. But would any forger have ventured upon a creation so remote from 
the common run of classical types ? 


Ianus bifrontal in ritual 075 


wears a flat cap on his head. In one hand he flourishes a drum- 
stick with knobbed ends. In the other he holds a second stick, with 
which apparently he drums on an oval shield. The shield is adorned 
with a Gorgon’s head in front and a goat (?) behind. On the ground 
at the dancer’s feet is placed a mask with a tragic (?) face on either 
side. The nearest parallel to the Palermo bronze is furnished by a 


= SNS 
y 





Fig. 281. 


frieze of Greek marble found at Anagnia, on which we see (fig. 282)! 
Salii advancing with knobbed staves and oval shields decorated 
with Gorgon’s head and tragic mask. It is, therefore, reasonable to 
' conclude that the bronze too portrays one of the Salii. If it be 
objected that the chief distinguishing feature is here the double face, 
I should reply that the Salii are known to have worshipped [anus?. 
Indeed, they not improbably personated that deity; for certain 


1 O. Benndorf ‘ Rilievo di Anagni con rappresentanza dei Salii’ in the Azz. d. Znst. 
1869 xli. 7o—74 pl. E (=my fig. 282), Reinach Rép. Reliefs iii. 3 no. 1, Harrison Themis 
p- 194 ff. fig. 49. 

2 The Salian hymn to Ianus is discussed supra p. 328 n. 8. 


a70 Ianus bifrontal in ritual 


verses chanted by them bore the name of /anzz'. Further, it would 
seem that our bronze gives us an earlier form of the Salian costume— 














Gj Zz 


Fig. 282. 
not a priestly robe resembling the Doric péplos (figs. 282—284)?, 


1 Paul. ex Fest. p. 3, 6 ff. Miiller, p. 3, 12 ff. Lindsay axamenta dicebantur carmina 
Saliaria, quae a Saliis sacerdotibus componebantur, in universos homines (C. O. Miiller 
cj.deos A. Dammann cj. heroes J. A. Hartungcj. semones W. M. Lindsay: ‘vzx omnes’) 
composita. nam in deos singulos versus ficti a nominibus eorum appellabantur, ut Ianuli, 
Iunonii, Minervii. The relief of Anagnia, which equips the Salii with plumed helmets, 

_ shields, and Doric féf/o/, perhaps represents them in the guise of Minerva singing the 
Minerviz. 

2 An aureus (Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. ii. 78 pl. 68, 3, Babelon Monn. rép. 
von. il. 83, 4106 ff. fig.) and denarit (Morell. Thes. Num. Fam. Rom. i. 372 pl: Sanquinia, 
1, Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. ii. 79 pl. 68, 4 (=my fig. 283), Babelon Moun. 
rép. rom. il. 83, 418, M. Bahrfeldt Machtrage und Berichtigungen zur Miinzkunde der 
vomischen Republik Wien 1897 p. 233 pl. 10, 244) of the gers Sanguinia, struck in 12 B.C., 
show the herald of the /udi saecu/ares in Salian garb (G. F. Hill Historical Roman Coins 
London 1909 p. 149 f.). 

Denariz of Domitian, struck in 88 a.D., represent one of the Salii, with plumed helmet, 
staff, and shield on which is the head of Mars, standing before a candelabrum and a cippus 
inscribed COS XIIII LVD SAEC FEC (Morell. Zhes. Mum. Jp. Rom. ii. 428 f. pl. 8, tg, 
Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” i. 476 nos. 73 f., Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dect. Rom. Coins 


Janus bifrontal in ritual oar hs: 


but a jerkin and hose of sheep-skin. This was in all probability the 
pelt of an animal sacrificed to the god, whose victim was normally 
a ram! or at least a lamb* The fleece survived into classical times 
as a mere head-dress’, which is specially mentioned in connexion 





= Fig. 284. 


with the priests of Anagnia‘. The combination of goat (?) and 
Gorgéneion suggests that the Salian shield served as an azgés. 

More difficult of interpretation is a pair of Etruscan bronze 
statuettes, discovered at Cortona in 1847 and preserved in the AZuseo 
Comunale (fig. 285). Two nude male figures, wearing a /orgues 
round the neck and buskins on the feet, advance towards each 
other with one hand resting on the hip and the other extended in a 
gesture of greeting. The two obviously belong together ; and both 


p- 526 fig. Fig. 284 is from a specimen in my collection. Cp. Cohen /oc. cit. no. 72 fig. 
a ‘middle brass’ with similar vev.). An aureus, denarii, and a guinarius of the same 
date show the priest only, without cazdelabrum or cifpus (Morell. Thes. Num. Jp. Rom. 
ii. 414 pl. 6, 11 wrongly described, Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” i. 476 nos. 75—78 wrongly 
described). 

1 Varr. de ling. Lat. 6. 12 with Ov. fast. 1. 317 ff., Dessau Zrscr. Lat. sel. no. 5047, 5 
Iano patri arietes 11, no. 5048, 7 Ian. patr. ariet. I. 

2 Fest. p. 189 a 17 f. Miiller, p. 204, 17 f. Lindsay tertia spolia, Ianui Quirino agnum 
marem caedito (but see W. H. Roscher in Roscher Lex. AZjh. ii. 40), Luv. 6. 385 ff. 

3 Fest. p. 210, 5 ff. Miiller, p. 230, 12 ff. Lindsay pescia in Saliari carmine Aelius Stilo 
(frag. 3 Funaioli) dici ait capitia ex pellibus agninis facta, quod Graeci pelles vocent réoxn 
neutro genere pluraliter (cp. Hesych. s.vv. mecxéwv, mécxov, Phot. lex. s.v. werxéwv, Nik. 
ther. 549 with schol. ad Zoc.). 

4 Fronto efist. 4. 4 (p. 66 f. Naber) priusquam ad villam venimus, Anagniam deverti- 
mus mille fere passus a via. deinde id oppidum anticum vidimus, minutulum quidem sed 
multas res in se antiquas habet, aedes sanctasque caerimonias supra modum. nullus 
angulus fuit, ubi delubrum aut fanum aut templum non sit. praeterea multi libri lintei, 
quod ad sacra adtinet. deinde in porta cum eximus, ibi scriptum erat bifariam sic: 
‘Flamen, sume samentum.’ rogavi aliquem ex popularibus, quid illud verbum esset. ait 
lingua Hernica pelliculam de hostia, quam in apicem suum flamen cum in urbem introeat 
inponit. 

° A. Lorini Dz due statuette in bronzo ed inscritte rinvenute presso le mura di Cortona 
Cortona 1855, D. Detlefsen De arte Romanorum antiguzssima Particula i (Gliickstadt 
1867?) p. 21, A. Fabretti Corpus inscriptionum Itdlicarum Aug. Taurinorum 1867 p. cxili 
NOs. 1051, 1052 pl. 35 (=my fig. 285), C. Pauli Corpus Lnscriptionum Etruscarum Lipsiae 
1893 i. 69 no. 437 v-cvinti-arnt\ias-culfans | alpan:turce and no. 438 v-+cvinti- arn|- 
lias - Selan\Sl tez- alpan | turce (on which see W. Deecke Ztruskische Forschungen Stuttgart 
1879 iii. 48 f. nos. 53, 54, ad. in Etruskische Forschungen und Studien Stuttgart 1882 1. 95 
$.v. ‘turce, C. Pauli 2d. 1882 iii. 156 s.v. ‘ ter(e)ce, S. Bugge 26. 1883 iv. 18 ff., 207). 


378 The significance of Janus’ double face 


bear dedicatory inscriptions in the Etruscan language. But, whereas 
one has a Janiform head, the other is coifed in a lion’s scalp (?). 





Cr 
x | 
ogee : sows 
G\e io aa ~> 
ae eee 
+> = Emo 
+ — 
er 4 egy oe 
Be 7 ee 
op a. Cc+7 
om rN o co 
aS 
PORES raise wa 
ee Ys 


Fig. 285. 


It may be conjectured that they are Etruscan players! taking the 
parts of Ianus (Cw/sans)? and Hercules in some forgotten drama. 


(p) The significance of Ianus’ double face. 
We have yet to tackle the problem, difficult indeed, but not— 
I think—insoluble: What was the ultimate significance of Ianus’ 
double face? Ancient and modern explanations being admittedly 
unsatisfactory, we must perforce look further afield and take into 
account certain facts noted by students of comparative anthropology. 
And here I shall avail myself at once of an odcter dictum in Sir 
James Frazer’s discussion of African beliefs about twins : 


‘On the Slave Coast when a woman has brought forth stillborn twins, she 
has a statue made with two faces and sets it up in a corner of her house.... This 
suggests that elsewhere two-faced images, like those of Janus, may have been 
intended to represent twins%.’ 


Let us fit the new key into our rusty lock and see if the door will 
open. Ianus, we have said, was originally the divine Sky. The 
divine Sky is bright by day and dark by night. Being, therefore, of 
a twofold or twin character, Ianus was naturally represented as 
a double-faced god. 


1 Cp. a bronze from Cortona, now at Leyden (G. Micali Aonumenti per servire alla 
storia degli antichi popoli ttaliant* Ffrenze 1833 pl. 119, 2, Reinach 7ép. Séat. ii. 558 
TO 2) 

2 G. Herbig in J. Hastings Lxcyclopedia of Religion and Ethics Edinburgh 1912 
v. 534. f., 2d. in Glotta 1913 iv. 173 N. 4. 

% Frazer Golden Bough®: The Magic Art i. 269 n. 1, citing the Msséons Catholiques 
1875 vil. 592. 


The significance of Ianus’ double face 379 


But, if so, we might reasonably expect to find other sky-gods 
duplicated in the same manner. Argos, who in his earliest form 
appears to have been a sky-god comparable with Zeus}, is described 
in the Hesiodic Azgémzos as ‘looking this way and that way with 
four eyes?’ and. portrayed on vases from s. vi onwards with a 
Janiform head. An Attic black-figured amphora, formerly in the 





Fig. 286. 


possession of the art-dealer Bassegio at Rome, depicts Hermes 
about to slay Argos in the presence of Hera and the heifer Io 
(fig. 286)*%. A red-figured bell-Lratér from Ruvo, in the collection of 
R. Barone at Naples, shows a similar group of Hermes attacking 
Argos, though here Io is a horned maiden and Hera is omitted 
(fig. 287)4. The earlier vase gives Argos two bearded faces, and 


1 Supra i. 32, 458. 

> Hes. frag. 4 Flach, 188 Rzach kat of éricxorov “Apyov te xpatepdv Te péyay Te | 
rérpacw 6pbauotow dpwmevov evOa Kai &Oa, | dxduator dé of apoe Hed pévos, ovdE oi 
Uavos | rimrev érl Breddpos, pudraxhy 5° éxev euredov aieé ap. schol. Eur. Phoen. 1116 
and ap. Tzetz. 7m exeg. //. p. 153, 21 ff. Hermann (printed after G. Hermann’s ed. of 
Drakon of Stratonikeia ve metris poeticis Lipsiae 1812). Supra i. 311 n. 6, 462. Cp. 
Kratin. Havérra frag. 2 (rag. com. Gr. ii. 102 f. Meineke) af. Hephaistion. enxchir. 1. 9 
p- 7, 4f. Consbruch xpavia dicod opeiv, dpPadpuol & ovK apOuarol. 

3 O. Jahn in the Bull. d. Just. 1839 p. 21, E. Vitet in the Rev. Arch. 1846 p. 308 ff. 
fig. 2 (=my fig. 286), Lenormant—de Witte £7. mon. cér. iii. 266, K. B. Stark in the 
Ann. d. Inst. 1860 xxxii. 330 f., R. Schéne 75. 1865 xxxvii. 150 n. 1, Overbeck Gr. 
Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 476 f. Atlas pl. 7, 9, K. Blondel in Daremberg—Saglio Dact. Ant. 
i. 418, Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 367, K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Keal-Lnc. ii. 793. 
Jahn Joc. cit. gives the find-spot of the vase as Ponte della Badia, and the subject of its 
reverse as Herakles killing the Neméan lion in the presence of Athena and Hermes. 
Vitet Zoc. cit. states that the vase was found at Bomarzo near Viterbo, and that its reverse 
shows Herakles and Jolaos fighting three warriors (? Geryones). 

4 G. Minervini ‘ Argo bifronte, dipinto di un vaso di Puglia’ in the Bud/, Arch. Nap. 


380 The significance of Ianus’ double face 


dresses him in a short cztéz with ornamental borders and a lion- 
skin! knotted about his chest. The later vase makes one face 
bearded, the other beardless, adds eyes all over him, and equips him 
with pétasos, panther-skin?, and club. Again, Boreas, the Thracian 
wind-god, who recalls the Cilician Zeus Bérezos*, occurs on a red- 


= 





Fig. 287. 


figured s¢démmnos in the Ciai collection at Chiusi as a winged man, 
with Janiform head, pursuing Oreithyia: her companions scatter to 
right and left, while a youth stands by as spectator (fig. 288)+. 
In this unique representation of Boreas both faces are bearded, but 
beard and hair on the one side are dark, on the other side light’. 


1845 lil. 72—76 pl. 4 (=my fig. 287), E. Vitet in the Rev. Arch. 1846 p. 308 ff. fig. 1 
(worse), Lenormant—de Witte £7. mov. cér. iii. 266, K. B. Stark in the Avzn. d. Inst. 
1860 xxxii. 331, R. Schone 2b. 1865 xxxvii. 150 n. 1, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus 
pp- 92, 479 f. Atlas pl. 7, 13, K. Blondel in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 419 fig. 508, 
Reinach Xép. Vases i. 469, 1, Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 367, K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. il. 794. 

1 E. Vitet doc. git. p. 312 ‘une peau de cheévre ou d’agneau.’ 

2 E. Vitet /oc. czt, p. 314 ‘une peau de chevre.’ But K. Wernicke oc. czt. ‘ Pantherfell.’ 

3 Supra i. 142 N. IO. 

4 K. B. Stark ‘ Borea ed Orizia’ in the Azz. d. Just. 1860 xxxil. 320—345 pl. L—M 
(=my fig. 288), A. Rapp in Roscher Lex. AZyth. i. 808 f. fig., Reinach Rép. Vases i. 305, 
R. Lantier in Daremberg—Saglio Dzct. Ant. v. 719. 

° K. B. Stark doc. cet. p. 326: ‘ Ambedue le faccie sono contornate da ricca barba e 
ricca capigliatura, distinte tra loro mediante il colore. Nella faccia cioé volta indietro 
sono di color nero come in tutte le altre figure; nell’ opposta all’ incontro I’ artista ha 
voluto esprimere il color biondo per |’ impasto del color nero a guisa di velatura.’ Stark 
Joc. cit. p. 332 ff. explains this difference of colouring as an attempt to express the twofold 
power of Boreas, who can either gather the clouds together or chase them from the sky. 
L. Stephani Boreas und die Boreaden St.-Pétersbourg 1871 p. 12 n. I prefers to see in it 


The significance of Ianus’ double face 381 


Such cases cannot be sharply separated from others, in which the 
double face is set on a pillar or post. Dionysos, himself a Thracian 




















Fig. 288. 


god and a rebirth of Zeus, is sometimes represented on black- 
figured /ékythoz by a couple of bearded masks hung back to back 
on a pillar (fig. 289)1—an anticipation of the later double herm 
an allusion to the counter-blasts, which on the Euripos the Greeks called raduuBopéas 


(Theophr. de vent. 27 f.). 
1 A. Frickenhaus Lendenvasen (Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Berlin \xxii) Berlin 1912 


382 The significance of Ianus’ double face 


(fig. 290). Finally, the word ‘herm’ reminds us that the same 
bifrontal type was appropriate to Hermes’, a god who in many 
points resembled Dionysos. A small bronze of Etruscan style in the 


= a Se | 4 
a. aan 4 


3S LL 
Lee ae hdl ~7 


Litt» Lo tity 
dt idling. 


e <a 
e e 


SANG 


I 


WH 


PN 
Nx = > 


ANN 
es 


' 
104 The ed 


ow 








Fig. 289. 


Bibliotheque Nationale at Paris shows two beardless heads adossées 
with prominent eyes, thick lips, and braided hair*. Specimens of aes 
grave cast at Volaterrae in Etruria after c. 350 B.C. have for obverse 


(1) Collignon—Couve Cat. Vases ad’ Athénes p. 317 no. 1001, 
2) Berlin inv. no. 3356, 


p- 33 f. cites four examples : 
published by Frickenhaus of. cz¢. pl. 1, 5 (=my fig. 289); ( 
published by O. Kern in the Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1896 xi. 115 fig. 1, 
Frickenhaus of. cé¢. p. 5 fig. 6; (3) Nicole Cat. Vases d’Athénes Suppl. p. 184 no. 931, 
published by Frickenhaus of. czt. pl. 1, 7; (4) Louvre, described by H. Heydemann 
Pariser Antiken (Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Halle 1887) p. 59 no. 67. See further 
supra i. 671. 

1 P. Righetti Descrizione del Campidoglio Roma 1836 ii. 68 f. pl. 262, 3 (=my fig. 290), 

Stuart Jones Cat. Sculpt. Mus. Capit. Rome p. 119 no. 46b pl. 24, E. Thraemer in Roscher 
Lex. Myth.i. 1122. Height 0°26™, with foot 0°37". The material is Luna marble. The 
noses and front edges of both busts are restored. On the top is a hole containing remains 
of a dowel. The wreath is ‘of ivy and berries’ (H. Stuart Jones Joc. czt.), ‘di pampini 
e di edere’ (P. Righetti /oc. cit.). Cp. Amelung Sca/pt. Vatic, i. 803 f. no. 720 pl. 86, 
A. Michaelis Ancient Marbles in Great Britain Cambridge 1882 p. 680 Wilton House 
no. 41. 
2 Tzetz. alleg. Zl. 22. 80 ‘Epuijs Te 6 durpbowmos évérewe Thy BAABnv, with which J. F. 
Boissonade ad loc. cp. Georg. Pachymeres declam. p. 64, 14 f. Boissonade dimrpbowrov dv 
Tis ele Thy maxny exelvny, Kal durpoodmwyv avdpav, orotov Tov Epujy AlyUmr.oe mAATTOVCL. 

3 Babelon—Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. Nat. p. 322 no. 734 ‘Hermés janiforme 


fig., S. Eitrem in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Zuc, viii. 706. Height 47 mill. 


, 


The significance of Ianus’ double face 383 


design a beardless Janiform head wearing a pointed pétasos, and for 
reverse either a dolphin! or a ' 

club (fig. 291)? or a mere mark 
of value®. Coins of Telamon in 
Etruria with a similar Janiform 
head on the obverse and a prow 
on the reverse are probably 
spurious’. It is commonly 
held that the dicephalous god 
of Volaterrae was Ianus—a 
view strongly advocated by 
W. Deecke’; but the absence 
of a beard and the presence of 
a pétasos point rather to the 
justice of W. H. Roscher’s® 
suspicion that we should here 
recognise, not Ianus, but Her- 
mes. 

On the whole I incline to 
the conclusion that all these 
double-faced deities—Hermés : 
the ‘ Pillar’-god (?)’ among them—were originally local varieties 





Fig. 290. 


1 Garrucci Mon. /t. ant. p. 25 pl. 47, 2, 3, 4, Brit. Mus. Cat. Cozns Italy p. 11 nos. 
I fig. and 2, Hunter Cat. Coins i. 3 no. 6, W. Deecke Etruskische Forschungen Stuttgart 
1876 il. 41—43. 

2 Garrucci Mon. /t. ant. p. 25 pl. 48, 1, 2, 3 (=my fig. 291), 4, 5, 6, 7, Brit. Mus. 
Cat. Coins Italy p. to f. nos. 1—17, Hunter Cat. Coins i. 3 nos. 2—5, W. Deecke 
Etruskische Forschungen Stuttgart 1876 ii. 37—41 pl. 3, 50, Miiller—Wieseler Denxkm. 
a. alt. Kunst i. 74 pl. 63, 327, R. Ratto Catalogo di una grande collezione di un distinto 
numtsmatico straniero Milano 1912 p. 4 f. nos. 40 pl. 2, 41, 42 pl. 2, 43, 44. 

% Garrucci Mon. Jt. ant. p. 26 pl. 49, 1, 2, 3) 45 5, 6, 7, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Italy 
p- 9 nos. 1—14, Hunter Cat. Coims i. 3 no. 1, W. Deecke Ztruskische Forschungen 
Stuttgart 1876 ii. 34—37 pl. 3, 42, R. Ratto Catalogo di wna grande collezione di un 
aistinlo numismatico strantero Milano 1912 p. 5 nos. 45, 46. 

4 Garrucci Mon. /t. ant. p. 188 pl. 125, Monete false 1, W. Deecke Etruskische For- 
schungen Stuttgart 1876 ii. 43 f. nos. 60% and 60», 128, 147 f. 

° W. Deecke Etruskische Forschungen Stuttgart 1876 ii. 123 ff. 

6 W. H. Roscher in his Zex. AZjyth. ii. 28, 51. 

? The present state of our knowledge, or rather ignorance, with regard to the name 
“Epujjs is summarised by Boisacq Dect. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 282 n. 3: ‘ L’étym. 
de ‘Epufs est inconnue; dor. “Eppas (<*'Hpuaas) éol. “Epuas €p. ‘Epuéas ‘Epuelas (voy. 
Solmsen Beitr. 1 240 n. 1) €p. tardif ‘“Epuweins ion. att. “Epujs, puis thess. Epuavov dat. 
GDI. 1300 sont les hypocoristiques de *‘Epuafwy (cf. Morsdas : Tlorecdafwv), cf. ‘Epuawy 
Hsd., lac. ‘Epwaw dat. inser. métrique Le Bas—Foucart 167, 5, lac. arc. ‘Epuavos gén., 
mess. ‘Epudve dat. etc. Les opinions de Kuhn (: skr. Savaméyah “fils de la déesse- 
chienne Sardma,” gr. dpun ‘*tempéte”), Max Miiller (“Epuéas “*fils de l’aurore”’), 
Welcker (: gr. opu7 ‘succession du jour et de la nuit, de la vie et de la mort”), Preller 
(: gr. épua ‘tas de pierres,” cf. les épuata, Epuator Adpor, Epudkes), A. Legrand dans 


384 The significance of Ianus’ double face 


of the divine Sky, or at least stood in such a relation to him that 





Fig. 291. 


they could borrow his bifrontal type. And in the development of 


Saglio 111, 2, 1802 bibl. (: gr. opuq ‘* *désir passionnel” et confusion avec &puaxes) sont 
désuetes.’ 

Id. ib. p. 281 f. distinguishes (1) épua for *cfepua, ‘prop, post’: (2) épua for *fepoua, 
‘rock’: (3) épua for *cépua, ‘earring.’ Attempts to connect ‘Epujjs with épua have hitherto 
operated with €pua, ‘rock’ (Preller—Robert Gr. AZyth. i. 385 n. 5 ‘Grosse Wahrschein- 
lichkeit hat die vom Verf. in der ersten Ausgabe [1854] vorgetragene Ableitung von épya, 
vgl. Aiveias aivos, Avyelas avyn; wie denn die épuaia, Epuator Adpor, Epwaxes, d. h. die 
aufgeschiitteten Steinhaufen auf Bergen und an den Strassen, die alteste Vergegenwar- 
tigung des Hermes waren; vgl. Dio Chryst. or. 78 p. 420 R Mare weyda Epuara aOpoiferbar 
NMOwv.’? K. O. Miiller Handbuch der Archaeologie der Kunst*® Stuttgart 1878 p. 586 n. 1 
‘Wahrscheinlich ist die Pfeilerbildung des H. so alt wie der Gott selbst, da ‘Epujs deutlich 
mit épua, €puat zusammenhingt.’) ; and it is no doubt possible to assume that this word 
developed in Greek a meaning similar to that of its Irish congener avr, ‘ column, pillar’ 
(Boisacq of. cit. p. 282). I should, however, prefer to suppose that ‘Epujs is related to 
épua, ‘prop, post,’ and that the earliest Greek effigy of the god was a wooden phallic 
pillar (e.g. Furtwangler—Reichhold Gy. Vasenmalerei ii. 292 f. pl. 115), forerunner of the 
stone or marble herm (e.g. E. Gerhard ‘ Ueber Hermenbilder auf griechischen Vasen’ in 
his Gesammelte akademische Abhandlungen und kleine Schriften Berlin 1868 ii. 126—148 
pls. 63—67). 

Hermes was, é2e7 entendu, a god of many parts, at once terrestrial and celestial. We 
shall see reason to compare him with Zeus Krjovos (Append. H_/z.), and we shall find 
analogous deities represented by phallic herms (Append. L fiz.). It may be added that his 
combination of earthly with heavenly powers is well brought out by the description of 
him as dudxropos apyetpoyrns—an old pre-Homeric tag (cp. swprai. 444). On the one hand, 
J. B. Bury (in the Beztrage zur kunde der indogermanischen sprachen 1892 xviii. 295), 
A. Fick (2d. 1894 xx. 179), F. Solmsen (‘ Acaxropos’ in the Zidogermanische Forschungen 
1894 iii. go—gg), and F. Bechtel (Lexzlogus zu Homer Halle a. d. S. 1914 p- 100), all 
relate did-xropos to xrépas, xrépea, xreplfw (cp. Zonar. lex. s.v. Sudxropos:...émi 5é Tod 
“Epuod 6 ra xrépea kal Ta OUpara Tots TeTENEUTHKOL KouLCww =e. mag. p. 268, 18 f. ert 5é 
Tod “Epuod act mapa 76 7a xrépea (so P. K. Buttmann for 70 xéap or 7d Ta Kéap codd.) 
Tov TeTeNeuTNKOTwY Koutfew), Fick remarks that Hermes in J/. 24. 397 feigns to be the 
son of Ilodv-xrwp, and that Lyk. AZ. 679 uses Krdpos as a title of Hermes himself (schol. 
and Tzetz. ad /oc.). Solmsen argues that the root «7ep meant ‘schenken, geben,’ and that 
6id-xropos had the force of ‘Spender, Geber,’ dva- denoting transference as in 6:dBoXos, 


The Sky-god’s hat 385 


that type I notice two tendencies, which may be held to reinforce 
my contention. 


(c) The Sky-god’s hat. 


Firstly, the bifacial god is apt to wear a broad-brimmed hat. 
For instance, on an engraved cornelian at Berlin, Greek work of 
Hellenistic date, he has a wide hat on his head and a long staff in 
his hand (fig. 292)! We are reminded of Ovid’s Ianus ‘leaning on 





Fig. 292. Fig. 293. Fig. 294. 


the staff, which he carried in his right hand?’ Again, a brown sard 
in the same collection, a convex gem of the early Roman period, 
shows a bearded and an unbearded head combined beneath a round 
hat with dotted decoration (fig. 293). Such a hat suggests com- 


Siddoxos, daxovos. He cp. Od. 8. 335 “Eppela, Avds vid, Sudxrope, S&rop édwy, h. Herm. 
18. 12 xaip’, “Epuh xapidGra, Sudxrope, SGrop édwv, and such passages as //. 14. 489 ff., 
16. 179 ff., Od. 15. 319 f. Bechtel renders ‘einer, der griindlich iiber Schatze verfiigt.’ 
It appears, then, that Hermes diaxropos was a chthonian god resembling Zeus I1Nouvrodérys 
or Il\ovTwy (supra i. 503 f.). On the other hand, dpyetpdyrns almost certainly means 
‘slaying with a flash.’ Bechtel of. cz¢. p. 53 says: ‘Die Mythologen miissen entscheiden, 
ob sie mit der Bezeichnung ‘*‘ durch den Glanz totend,” “‘in dem Glanze tdtend” etwas 
ausrichten konnen.’ I gladly take up this challenge. This epithet so interpreted suits 
admirably the sky-god with his fatal lightning-flash. Hermes dpyeipévrns, in fact, recalls 
Zeus, who slays dpyfre kepavy@ (supra i. 31 n. 4). And if Hermes’ epithet came to be 
misunderstood as ‘the slayer of Argos,’ that piece of popular etymology is at least of 
interest inasmuch as it implies the conflict of two rival gods. It is tempting to conjecture 
that the caduceus of the victor originated as a bipartite lightning-fork (fra § 3 (c) iv (8) and 
(5)); but the subject cannot here be pursued. 

Since the foregoing paragraph was written an article on ’Apyet¢dyrns by P. Kretschmer 
has appeared in Glotta 1919 x. 45—49. Kretschmer holds that ’Apyetpdvrns is metri 
gratia for ’Apyodévrns and compares the epic avdpetpdvrns for dvdpopéyrns (though U. von 
Wilamowitz-Mollendorff Homerische Untersuchungen Berlin 1884 p. 299 n. to took 
avdpetpovTns to have been formed on the analogy of ’Apyetdvrns). ‘Wir kommen also 
zu dem Schluss: die Wissenschaft wie die Schule mag ruhig bei der Ubersetzung Argostiter 
bleiben.’ As to the question put by Bechtel, ‘Ich meine, die Mythologen.miissen diese 
Frage energisch verneinen. Ein solcher Beiname wiirde allenfalls auf den blitzeschleu- 
dernden Zeus passen, aber nicht auf Hermes, der auch kein Lichtgott ist.’. This suits my 
argument well enough. : 

1 Furtwangler Geschnitt. Steine Berlin p. 236 no. 6461 pl. 45 (=my fig. 292: scale 7). 

2 Ov. fast. 1. 177. 

’ Furtwaingler Geschnitt. Steine Berlin p. 96 f. no. 1844 pl. 18 (=my fig. 293: scale 7). 


C.1L 25 


386 The Sky-god’s hat 


parison with the beardless Janiform head wearing a helmet on 
asses of Ouxenton (Ugenzo) in Calabria (fig. 294)'. Now R. Eisler 
has rightly insisted that throughout the Levant the sky was often 
symbolised as a hat*—witness the tiara of Zeus Oromdsdes*, the 
starry pilos of Men or Attis or Mithras(?)*, etc.» The same con- 
ception prevailed among the nations of northern Europe, as may be 
seen from Odhin’s broad hat®, though hardly from the umbrella- 
like head-gear of Rugiwit’. And the Greeks themselves were capable 
of equally crude ideas; for Anaximenes of Miletos, who speaks of 
his aér as condensed by a process of ‘felting’ ( pé/eszs)*, declares 
that the stars move round the earth horizontally ‘as the felt hat 
(fzlfon) turns about on our head®. We need not, therefore, hesitate 
to interpret the pé/asos of Hermes or Argos or Ianus as an unsophis- 
ticated symbol for the sky overhead. 


1 Garrucci Aon. /t. ant. p. 123 pl. 97, 12 (=my fig. 294). Rasche Lex. Num. xi. 953, 
Suppl. ii. 72 (Ianus), Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Italy p. 220, Head Ast. num.* p. 69 
(Athena? Roma?). 

2 R. Eisler Weltenmantel und Himmelszelt Miinchen 1910. 64 f., 67, ii. 582 n. 3, 677, 
alib, 

3 Supra i. 748 f. fig. 545. 

4 Supra i. 741 f. 

5 Toseph. ant. Jud. 3. 7. 7 (on the high priest’s mitre) Kai 0 midos 6é por doxet Tov 
‘ovpavoy Texunprody vbaxlyOwos memonuévos’ ov yap av dws UrepaveTibero aitw TO dvoua 
700 Oeod with S. Havercamp ad loc., Theodoret. gaaest. in Exodum 60 (Ixxx. 285 B 
Migne) éréxecro d€ 7H Kepady (sc. of Aaron) Kidapis Tov otpavoy pupoupern. 

Porph. ap. Euseb. praep. ev. 3. 11. 23 midov dé meptéGecav (sc. on the head of He- 
phaistos) xudveov THs ovpaviov ciuBorov mepipopas. 

6 J. Grimm Zeutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 146, 1888 iv. 
1331f., K. Simrock Handbuch der Deutschen Mythologie Bonn 1878 p. 173, E. H. Meyer 
Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp. 90, 231, 235, 253, E. Mogk in the Grundriss 
der germanischen Philologie? Herausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1900 iii. 334 f., 
P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye Zhe Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 1go02 
p. 226, R. M. Meyer Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 pp. 229, 232f. The 
equation of Odhin’s hat with Hermes’ Aé¢asos (Grimm of, czt. iv. 1332, W. H. Roscher 
Hermes der Windgott Leipzig 1878 p. 113, R. M. Meyer of. czt. p. 226, K. Helm A/t- 
germanische Religionsgeschichte Heidelberg 1913 i. 265) was presumably one of the reasons 
for the Roman identification of Wodan with Mercurius (Tac. Germ. 9, ann. 13. 57 with 
J. C. Orelli ad occ. See further supra p. 63 n. 0). 

7 Dr Vollmer’s Worterbuch der Mythologie aller Volker. Neu bearbeitet von Dr W. 
Binder Stuttgart 1874 p. 403 fig. 273. The source from which this singular illustration 
has been drawn is not stated. Saxo Grammaticus 47st. Dan. 14 p. 577, 23 ff. Holder says 
nothing about the hat. 

8 Plout. strom. frag. 3 ap. Euseb. praep. ev. 1. 8. 3=H. Diels Doxographt Graect 
Berolini 1879 p. 579, 21=2d. Die Fragmente der Vorsokratiker® Berlin 1912 i. 23, 4 f. 
midoupevou dé To) depos mpwrnv yeyevjtbar Néyer Thy ynv mdatetay uada, Hippol. ref. 
haeres. 1. 7 p. 18 Duncker—Schneidewin=H. Diels Dowxogr. p. 560, 21=¢d. Frag. 
Vorsokr.® i. 23, 16 f. €& aépos <6€> vépos aoreNeioba Kara THY TidnoU, K.T.D. 

9 Hippol. vef. haeres. 1. 7 p. 18 Duncker—Schneidewin=H. Diels Doxogr. p. 561, 
7 ff. =id. Frag. Vorsokr.* i. 23, 24 ff. ob kweioOac d€ bro yhv Ta doTpa Evel, Kafws ETEpoc 
Urednpacw, GANG Tepl viv, womepel epl Thy juEeTepay Kepadny orpépeTat 7d TLNiov. 


The differentiation of the Sky-god’s faces 387 


(rt) The differentiation of the Sky-god’s faces. 


Secondly, the two faces of the bifrontal deity are often differ- 
entiated. And this differentiation may vary much in its degree. 
Boreas, as we have just seen!, had two bearded profiles, one dark, 
the other light. Argos on the kratér from Ruvo? and Ianus (?) 
on the Roman sard? joined a bearded to a beardless visage. The 





; yl, Z 
UD 




















Fig. 295. 


result was a piquant contrast, which acquired a certain popularity. 
Thus a double herm to be seen in the Museo Capitolino at Rome* 
combines a bearded with a beardless Dionysos. Another, a work of 
Augustan date now in the Vatican, links a would-be archaic with 
a Hellenistic head of Silenos (fig. 295)°. Or again, two heads are 


1 Supra p. 380f. fig. 288. .« 2 Supra p. 379f. fig. 287. 

3 Supra p. 385 fig. 293. 

+ Stuart Jones Cat. Sculpt. Mus. Capit. Rome p. 144 no. 14 pl. 34, G. Bottari 77 Wzseo 
Capitolino Roma 17501 Animadversiones pl. 6, 2 (facing p. 18). Height 1°085™ to base 
of shaft, which does not belong to the heads. Luna marble. The nose of the unbearded 
head and a lock of hair by its left ear have been restored. 

A bronze in the Museum at Cassel shows a nude youth of effeminate aspect holding 
an adze(?) in his lowered right hand and a Janiform amulet in his raised left hand: the 
little figure has a beardless face in front, a bearded face behind (Gerhard £ér. Spiegel i. 40 
pl. 13, 5f., zd. Ant. Bildw. pl. 303, 4f., Reinach Rép. Stat. ii. 176 no. g ‘Hermaphro- 
dite?’), Gerhard Zz. Spiegel i. 40 pl. 13, 2—4 cp. a bronze amulet, acquired by him in 
Rome, which unites the face of a child with that of a lion. 

> E. Pistolesi 27 Vaticano Descritto ed [lustrato Roma 1829 iv. 141 pl. 55, 1 (=my 
fig. 295), A. Nibby in F. A. Visconti—G. A. Guattani // Museo Chiaramonti aggtiunto al 
Pio-Clementino da N.S. Pio vir P. M. Roma 1843 iii pl. 9, A. Furtwangler in the 477. 
a. Inst. 1877 xlix. 199 n. 1 and 234 f. (=2d. Kleine Schriften Miinchen rg12 i. 148 n. 2 
and 173), Helbig Guide Class. Ant. Rome i. 44 no. 75, Amelung Sculpt. Vatic. i. 461 f. 
no. 229 pl. 47. Height 0°365™. Yellowish marble of fine grain. 


25-2 


388 The differentiation of 


associated that might be regarded as diverse manifestations of the 
same power, whether divine or human. Accordingly Zeus Ammon 
was paired with Dionysos! or with a Satyr? or with Sarapis (?)°; 
Zeus wearing an oak-wreath and acorns, with Hermes (?) wearing 
a winged hat like a helmet*. Cicero’s Hermeraclae’ may mean no 
more than ‘herms of Herakles®. But the actual 
grouping Ianus-wise of Hermes with Herakles 
is sufficiently attested by an as of the gens 
Rubria, struck c. 86 B.C. (fig. 296)’, perhaps also 
by a double bust in the Vatican*. Another bust 
in the same collection couples a youthful Hermes, 
wearing a pétasos, and a bearded Dionysos, with 
wings on his head®. One in the Cabinet de 
France joins a bearded Dionysos, with head-wings and a diadem, to 
a beardless Satyr, wearing an ivy-wreath”. Another at Berlin com- 
bines a bearded Dionysos and a beardless Satyr, both crowned with 
ivy". Yet another, in the Fitzwilliam Museum at Cambridge, shows 
an ivy-wreathed Silenos together with a bay-wreathed Apollon 
(fig. 297)% We find a Janiform arrangement even of a tragic and 





* Silver hemédrachma of Thasos (c. 411—350 B.C.) have obv. Janiform head of a bald 
and bearded Satyr; rev. |; A© or OA &| two amphorae placed in opposite directions, 
within incuse square (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thrace, etc. p. 221 nos. 51, 52, Ant. Miinz. 
Berlin Taurische Chersonesus, etc. i. 290 nos. 36—39, Head Hist. num.” p. 265, W. H. 
Roscher in his Lex. AZyth. ii. 54). 


L Supra i. 37.4. 2 Supra i. 374: 3 Supra i. 366 n. 2. 
4 A. Michaelis Ancient Marbles in Great Britain Cambridge 1882 p. 633 Richmond 
no. 47. 


5 Cic. ad Att. 1. To. 3. 

6 F. Diirrbach in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iii. 122 fig. 3802, S. Eitrem in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. viii. 705. 

7 Babelon Monn. rép. rom. ii. 406, 408 f. no. 6 fig., Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. 
i. 313 fig. (=my fig. 296). 

8 E. Q. Visconti Musée Pie-Clémentin Milan 1821 vi. too—102 pl. 13, 2. Height 
‘deux palmes et trois onces.’ Greek marble. Both heads are wreathed with poplar; and 
Visconti admits that they might be interpreted as a bearded and a beardless Herakles. 
He concludes, however, in favour of Herakles p/ws Hermes, two sons of Zeus presiding 
over athletic contests. 

® Gerhard Ant. Bildw. pl. 318, 2, Amelung Sculpt. Vatic. i. 469 no. 239 C pl. 47, 
S. Eitrem in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. viii. 707. 

1° Cabinet de France no. 3277, published by V. Duruy History of Rome and the Roman 
People ed. J. P. Mahaffy London 1883 i. 656, P. Paris in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. 
ill. 134 fig. 3820. : 

" Ant. Skulpt. Berlin p. 62 no. 137 fig. 

22 J. Disney The Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge London 1849 p. 23f. pl. 12 (‘Bacchus 
and Ceres’), A. Michaelis Ancient Marbles in Great Britain Cambridge 1882 p. 258 
no. 50, H. A. Chapman 4 Handbook to the collection of antiquities...in the Fitzwilliam 
Museum* Cambridge 1904 p. 44. My fig. 297 is from a photograph by Mr W. Tams. 
Restored: nose-tips and busts. Height of genuine parts 0°16™. 


the Sky-god’s faces 389 


a comic mask. As to the synthesis of human heads, exact duplica- 
tion of the same face is rare*. Far more frequent is the union of 
two personages likely to be associated in memory. For example, 





Fig. 297. 
J. J. Bernoulli in the course of his great works on Greek and 
Roman iconography has occasion to discuss double portrait-herms 
of Homer and Hesiod’, Sophokles and Euripides‘, Herodotos and 


1 Ant. Skulpt. Berlin p. 92 f. no. 214 fig. Blueish marble. Height o*ro™, This 
double herm was acquired by E. Gerhard in Rome (1841). 
Cp. a sard, obtained in Constantinople (1884) and now 
in the Lewis collection at Cambridge (J. H. Middleton 
The Lewis Collection of Gems and Rings London 1892 
p- 52 no. 44), which has tragic and satyric masks, back 
to back, with a mask of Pan above them (fig. 298 
=scale #). 

2 Supra p. 371 n.1. See also J. J. Bernoulli Griech- 
ische [konographie Miinchen rgotr ii. 96 n. 4, Ant. Skulpi. 
Berlin p. 185 f. nos. 476, 477 (two double herms recall- 
ing the type of Polykleitos’ doryphdvos). Fig. 298. 

3 J. J. Bernoulli Griechische Lkonographie Miinchen 
Igor i. 9, 29 f. figs. 3 f. 4 Td. tb. i. 29, 127, 153 figs. 25 f. 





390 The differentiation of 


Thoukydides!, Sokrates and Platon (?)?, Sokrates and Seneca’, 
Epikouros and Metrodoros‘, etc. By a further process of divergence 
the component faces became respectively male and female. Already 
in'the latter part of the sixth century B.c. Athenian potters were 





Fig. 299. 


turning out Janiform aryballoz. A specimen in my collection(pl. xxi)* 
unites a male with a female Dionysiac head: the one (Dionysos ?) 
has a bay-wreath, the other (Ariadne?) an ivy-wreath. Similar 
vases were produced in the early decades of the fifth century®; 


1 7d. 2b. i. 159, 180 f. pls. 18—20. 

2 Td. ib. i. 189, ti. 23, Ant. Skulpt. Berlin p. 126 no. 296 fig. 

3 J. J. Bernoulli Gréechische Ikonographie Miinchen 1901 i. 189, 7d. Rimische Tkono- 
graphie Stuttgart 1882 i. 276 ff. pl. 24. 

4 Id. Griechische Ikonographie Miinchen 1901 ii. 130 pls. 16, 17. 

> Height o1125™. 

° Furtwangler Vasensamml. Berlin ii. 1026 nos. 4044 and 4045=7d. Samml. Sabouroff 


Plate XXI 








Janiform avydallos, combining male and female Dionysiac heads. 


See page 390. 





the Sky-god’s faces 391 


and the type, with its numismatic analogues}, prepared the way 
for the double herms of Dionysos and Ariadne so common in 





Roman times (fig. 299). These two having led off the dance, other 


Vases pl. 69. Cp. R. Gargiulo Raccolta dei monumenti pitt interessanti del Real Museo 
Borbonico e di varie collezioni private® Napoli 1845 pl. 13 f. 

1 Infra § 3 (c) i (0). 

? E.g. Brit. Mus. Cat. Sculpture iii. 46 nos. 1622 and 1623 (Brit. Mus. Marbles ii 
pl. 17 (=my fig. 299). Found near Rome by Gavin Hamilton. Veined marble. Height 
1 ft. 2 ins. Restored: the nose-tips), A. Michaelis Azctent Marbles in Great Britain 


392 Virbius as Dianus 


couples soon joined in—Hermes with Hestia!, Priapos with a 
Maenad?, Pan with a Maenad?, a boy-Pan with a girl-Pan‘, a Satyr 
with a Maenad’, Triton with Libye®, and doubtless many more, in- 
cluding even such ungainly partners as Apis with Isis (fig. 300)’. 


(v) Virbius as Dianus. 


Perhaps the most interesting of all the differentiated types is 
that represented zz primzs by a double herm found during the exca- 
vations of 1885 at Nemi®’ and now forming part of a private English 
collection (pl. xxii, I—3)°, zu secundis by a very similar herm 


Cambridge 1882 p. 258 ff. Cambridge nos. 51 and 59, p. 368 Ince Blundell Hall no. 160, 
p- 439 Lansdowne House nos. 7, 8, p. 608 Petworth House no. 22, p.,633 Richmond 
no. 48, p. 649 f. Rossie Priory nos. rt and 18, Amelung Sczpt. Vatic. i. 469 no. 239 B 
pl. 47, A. Mau Pompei: its life and art trans. F. W. Kelsey New York 1902 pp. 326, 
448 fig. 257, Burlington Fine Arts Club: Exhibition of Ancient Greek Art London 1904 
p- 34 f. no. §7 pl. 26. 

Frohner Scwlpt. du Louvre i. 220 nos. 198 and 199 (? really Dionysos and Ariadne). 
Ant. Skulpt. Berlin p. 108 no. 249 fig. 

Ant. Skulpt. Berlin p. 105 no. 242 fig. 

R. Gargiulo Collection of the most remarkable monuments of the National Museum 
Naples 1873 ii pl. 24. 

OG.tbe i please 

6 Ant. Skulpt. Berlin p. 89 f. no. 207 fig. 

7 P. Gusman La villa impériale de Tibur (villa Hadriana) Paris 1904 p. 313 fig. 579 
(=my fig. 300) an Egyptising herm of black marble in the Egyptian Museum of the 
Vatican. 

8 The site was excavated in 1885—1886 by Sir John Savile Lumley, now Lord Savile, 
then English ambassador at Rome. See Frazer Golden Bough*: The Magic Arti. 3 n. 2 for 
bibliography. The herm was discovered in a forticus adjoining the temple of Diana. Plan 
of the temple by R. F. Pullan in Archaeologia 1887 1. 1. 58 ff. pl. 7; plan of the precinct 
by A. Langenhau in O. Rossbach ‘ Das Dianaheiligtum in Nemi’ in the Verh. d. go. Philo- 
logenversamml. in Gérlitz 1889 p. 152 (both reproduced by L. Morpurgo ‘Nemus Ari- 
cinum’ in the Mon. d. Linc. 1903 xiii. 303 ff. figs. 1 and 2; the latter only, by G. H. Wallis 
Ltlustrated Catalogue of Classical Antiquities from the site of the Temple of Diana, Nemi, 
Italy Nottingham 1893 p. xxii f.). 

® G. Fiorelli in the Wot. Scavi 1885 p. 479, W. Helbig ‘ Scavi di Nemi’ in the Bu//. 
d. Inst. 1885 p. 227 f., zd. in the Rim. Mitth. 1886 i. 6of., 7d. Guide Class. Ant. Rome 
i. 331, 2a. Luihrer durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertéimer in Rom? 
Leipzig 1912 i. 439, O. Rossbach Joc. cit. p. 159, G. H. Wallis of. cét. p. 32 f. no. 611 
with pl. (two photographs from a cast of the double bust), A. B. Cook in the Class. Rev. 
1902 xvi. 373, 7a. in Folk-Lore 1905 xvi. 289 ff., L. Morpurgo ‘ Nemus Aricinum’ in the 
Mon. da. Linc. 1903 xiii. 323, 350, ead. ‘La rappresentazione figurata di Virbio’ in Azsonza 
1909 iv. 109—-127 with figs. 1—6 and pls. 5, A—c and 6, A—c (three photographs from 
the original herm=my pl. xxii, r—3), F. Granger ‘A portrait of the Rex Nemorensis’ 
in the Class. Rev. 1907 xxi. 194—197 with two figs., zd. ‘The leafy bust at Nemi’ zd. 
1908 xxii. 217, Sir J. G. Frazer ‘The leafy bust at Nemi’ 2d. 1908 xxii. 147—149, 2d. 
Golden Bough®: The Magic Art i. 41f., Stuart Jones Cat. Sculpt. Mus. Capit. Rome 
p- 150 f. Height of bust 0'25™; breadth o‘192™. Height of shaft 1°35™; breadth o:20™. 
The shaft, found close to the bust, is also of marble (davd¢g/io) and bears the inscription 
SACR + DIAN in reddened lettering. 


ee ow bw Lal 








Plate XXIl 








+, NA fi So 2 = ; 
CHG ’ aN (Ca i Za 








za las. . 





Z 
= 
2 
O 
a 


\ars 
Gps" 
YY 1 
Yj, 
G a 
% ‘ 
f r= 


SACRDIAN 











SACR-DIAN 


2 


Janiform bust from Nemi, probably representing Hippolytos-Virbius decked 
with leaves of the guercus robur as consort of Diana. 


See page 392 ff. 








SACRDIAN 


Plate XXII 
















a 9 
ee rele eee | 
Re eee] of? & qed Miw beemed wok! <¥ : 





Plate XXIII 


iy 
Z LA 3 — 
t ! HA by Y } 


| Vs 
if : = AS 
VeRO Hy) if viNy, N , 
] NH ; 
y / / AWN \ 
A) 








LYE Z— Sy) & 


\\ A WI 
)), Wi 
) » 


NOW ay 
i ING J | 4 \ 








Janiform bust in the Capitoline Museum, probably representing Hippolytos- 


Virbius decked with leaves of the guervcus ilex as consort of Diana. 
See pages 393, 399 f. 


WA 


VK 
AW 


CCC 


Plate XXIII 








Virbius as Dianus 393 


probably brought at an earlier date from the same locality! and 
now preserved in the Capitoline Museum (pl. xxiii, 1—3)*. Both 
herms combine a beardless with a bearded head and are characterised 
by curious foliated decoration, which has been diversely explained. 

To speak first of the bust found by Lord Savile at Nemi. 
In 1885 G. Fiorelli described it as a double Bacchic herm®, pre- 
sumably because he took its foliation for vine-leaves. But in the 
same year W. Helbig suggested that’ we have here to do with a 
pair of water-divinities, arguing that fins start from their brows and 
aquatic plants spread over the cheeks of the bearded head, the 
neck and chest of both; further, that the younger face has a small 
fin at each angle of the mouth, the elder face a beard saturated 
with water, while the hair of both alike is damp and wind-blown‘. 
In 1886 Helbig proposed to regard them as personifications of the 
neighbouring lakes of Albano and Nemi®—a view which has been 
favourably received®. In 1902 I put forward a new surmise’. Since 
the shaft of the herm is inscribed ‘Sacred to Diana’, it seemed 
reasonable to interpret the Janiform bust as thatof Diana’s favourite— 
Hippolytos transformed into Virbius, who in Ovid’s account says of 
the goddess: 


She made me older and henceforth of features 
Unrecognisable®. 


? L. Morpurgo in Awsonda 1909 iv. 124. 

* Friederichs—Wolters Gipsadbgiisse p. 614 no. 1545, Einzelaufnahmen nos. 417—419 
(=my pl. xxiii, 1—3) with Text ii. 31f. by P. Arndt, Helbig Gadde Class. Ant. Rome 
i. 331 f. no. 451, 2d. Fuihrer durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in 
Rom Leipzig 1912 i. 439 no. 794, L. Morpurgo ‘La rappresentazione figurata di Virbio’ 
in Ausonia 1909 iv. tog—127 with figs. 1—6 and pls. 5, A—C and 6, A—C, Stuart Jones 
Cat. Sculpt. Mus. Capit. Rome p. 150f. Sala delle Colombe no. 28 pl. 37. Height of 
bust 0°355™. Marble, erechetto. Restored: older head+lock of beard and lock near right 
eye; younger head—part of left shoulder and angle of herm. ‘Fair work of first or early 
second century a.D.’ (Stuart Jones oc. cit). 

3 G. Fiorelli in the Wot. Scavi 1885 p. 479 (‘un’ erma bacchica doppia’). 

4 W. Helbig ‘Scavi di Nemi’ in the Bw//. d. Zust. 1885 p- 227 f. (‘Um erma doppia... 
composta dalle teste di due esseri acquatici’). 

5 W. Helbig in the Rom. Mitth. 1886 i. 61 (‘ personificazioni di acque che nell’ agro 
aricino avevano un interesse locale, cioé del lago Albano e di quello di Nemi’). 

§ Z.g. G. H. Wallis Zustrated Catalogue of Classical Antiquities from the site of the 
Temple of Diana, Nemi, Italy Nottingham 1893 p. 33. However, O. Rossbach ‘ Das 
Dianaheiligtum in Nemi’ in the Verh. d. go. Philologenversamml. in Gorlitz 1889 p. 159 
is content to treat them as indeterminate aquatic powers. 

7 Class. Rev. 1902 xvi. 373. 

8 SACR+ DIAN (sera p. 392 n. 9g) must, at Nemi, be completed as ‘sacrum Dianae,’ 
not ‘ Diano’ (Folk-Lore 1905 xvi. 289). 

® Ov. met. 15. 539 f. addidit aetatem nec cognoscenda reliquit | ora mihi. Cp. Auson. 
cento nuptialis 360 epist. p. 207, 28 ff. Peiper ne in sacris et fabulis aut Thyonianum 
mireris aut Virbium, illum de Dionyso, hunc de Hippolyto reformatum. 


394 Virbius as Dianus 


Accepting the aquatic traits noted by Helbig, I contended that 
fish-forms were not inappropriate to a companion of Artemis and 
that Virbius might turn out to be a river-god rather than a tree- 
spirit. In 19051 I was still disposed to think that Virbius in Italy, 
if not also in Greece’, was a stream-god. But I urged that the 
Janiform bust from Nemi identified him with Diana’s consort 
Dianus or Ianus*, a god incarnate in the rer Nemorensis. Prof. 
F. Granger in 19074 threw fresh light on the problem by remarking 
that the two ends of the moustache upon the bearded face are formed 
of oak-leaves, that the foliage round the necks of both figures is 
clearly to be explained as oak-leaves, and that the alleged fins are not 
fins at all, but merely conventionalised leafage. Hence he enquires 
‘whether the double bust may stand for Virbius-Hippolytus as 
a wood-spirit, perhaps the king of the wood.’ The younger face 
with its barbaric type might represent the ruffian assailant ; the 
older face, anxious and wrinkled, might portray the king-priest 
haunted by the dread of sudden attacks. In 1908° Sir James Frazer, 
after examining the cast of the herm at Nottingham, admitted 
‘that, whether accidentally or not, the modelling of the moustache on 
one side of the face does resemble an oak leaf,’ but raised doubts 
with regard to the rest of the foliage. He concluded as follows: 


‘Thus the identification of the leaves on the bust as oak-leaves, and with it 
my theory of the priest as a personification of the oak, remains uncertain. I will 
only add that Miss Darwin’s proposal to identify as leaves of some sort the 


1 Folk-Lore 1905 xvi. 2809 ff. 

* Vibius Sequester, who in s. iv—v wrote for his son Virgilianus a guide to the geo- 
graphical names of Virgil, Ovid, Lucan, Silius Italicus, etc. (W. S. Teuffel—L. Schwabe 
History of Roman Literature® trans. G. C. W. Warr London 1892 ii. 436 f., Liibker 
Reallex.8 p. 1108), includes in his list of rivers (p. 152, 6 f. Riese) Virbius Laconices, ubi 
Hippolytum Aesculapius arte medicinae reddidit vitae, unde et Virbius dictus, and in his 
list of springs (p. 152, 33 Riese) Virvinus Laconices. J. J. Oberlin (ed. Argentorati 1778 
pp- 211f., 242) thinks that Vib. Seq. invented the stream Virbius, and possibly the spring 
Virvinus to boot, prompted by Ov. fast. 6. 756 Aricino Virbius ille lacu. C. Bursian 
(ed. Turici 1867 pp. 10, 11) would alter Zaconices into lacu (or Juco) Arictae, and treats 
Virvinus as a blundering repetition of Virbzws. A. Riese (ed. Heilbronnae 1878 p.-152) 
cj. 72 agro Ariciae for Laconices, and brackets Virvinus Laconices as a meaningless 
duplication. Jzfra p. 421. 

3 Accordingly I laid stress on the watery aspect of Ianus, husband of Iuturna (supra 
p- 368 n. 3) the old Latin goddess of lakes and rivers, and father of Fontus (2é.) the god 
of springs and wells, father also of the river Tiber (interp. Serv. 7 Verg. Aen. 8. 330) 
and of Canens the water-nymph, whom king Picus preferred to the Naiads of Nemi (Ov. 
met. 14. 320 ff.). It was said that, when the Sabines on one occasion attempted to force 
their way into Rome, a raging flood of waters burst out from the temple of Ianus and 
drove them back (Ov. met. 14. 778 ff., fast. 1. 259 ff., Serv. 27 Verg. Aen. t. 291, Macrob. 
Sat. 1.9.17 f.). See further W. H. Roscher in his Lex. AZy¢h. ii. 18 and 41. 

4 F. Granger ‘A portrait of the Rex Nemorensis’ in the Class, Rev. 1907 xxi. 194—197 
with two figs. 

° Sir J. G. Frazer ‘ The leafy bust at Nemi’ in the Class. Rev. 1908 xxii. 147—149. 


Virbius as Dianus 


S95 


things which project from the mouth of the younger face seems to me excellent... 
Perhaps...the candidate for the priesthood at Nemi chewed oak-leaves in order 
to nerve his arm for the fatal stroke. It may have been with oak-leaves in his 
mouth, as well as with sword in hand, that he advanced upon his adversary. 
Can it be that in the face of the older man the artist has purposely shewn us a 
grinning empty mouth as if to indicate that the sacred oak and with it the god 
had passed from him to another ?’ 


Later in 1908! Prof. Granger returned to the charge. Sir James 
Frazer had cited the opinion of Mr R. I. Lynch, Curator of the 
Botanic Garden at Cambridge, who ‘thought the leaves more like 
nettle or perhaps dead-nettle (Lamzum).’ Prof. Granger would adopt 
this suggestion, but limit it to the scalloping under the eyes. He adds: 


“To quote a local example, on Royal Oak Day (May 29) boys go about 
Nottingham armed with nettles, and they demand of passers-by to “show 
their oak” under penalty of being nettled. Whether, therefore, the nettle be 
intended, or some other vervain, a further and most interesting line of inquiry 
has been opened?. And Prof. Frazer’s theory that the priest of Nemi personifies 
the oak, remains as convincing as ever.’ 


1 F. Granger ‘ The leafy bust at Nemi’ in the Class. Rev. 1908 xxii. 217. 

* Of vervain in antiquity we possess two parallel accounts, that of Pliny transcribed 
from Sextius Niger epi tX\ys (t1o—40 A.D.: see M. Schanz Geschichte der rimischen 
Litteratur® Miinchen 1899 ii. 1. 315), and that of Dioskorides based on the same work 
with lists of synonyms etc. added from the illustrated peforouixdy of Krateuas, physician 
to Mithradates vi Eupator (120—63 B.c. The most famous codex of this herbal, Vindob. 
Med. Gr. 1, written for the elder Iuliana Anicia, wife of Olybrius the consul of 379 A.D., 
has been published by A. W. Sijthoff in Scato de Vries Codices Graeci et Latini photo- 
graphice depicti vol. X i, ii Dioscurides Lugduni Batavorum 1906: see further W. Christ 
Geschichte der griechischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1911 ii. 1. 347 f.) : 


PLINY zat. hist. 25. 105—107. DIOSKORIDES 4. 60—6r p. 548 ff. Sprengel. 


nulla tamen Romanae nobilitatis 
plus habet quam hiera botane. aliqui 
aristereon, nostri verbenacam vocant. 
haec est quam legatos ferre ad hostes 
indicavimus (saz. hist. 22. 5); hac 
Iovis mensa verritur, domus_ pur- 
gantur lustranturque. genera eius 
duo: foliosa, quam feminam putant, 
mas rarioribus foliis. ramuli utrius- 
que plures, tenues, cubitales, angu- 
losi, folia minora quam quercus 
angustioraque, divisuris maioribus, 
flos glaucus, radix longa, tenuis. 
nascitur ubique in planis aquosis. 
quidam non distingunt et unum om- 
nino genus faciunt, quoniam utraque 
eosdem effectus habeat. utraque sor- 
tiuntur Galli et praecinunt responsa, 
sed Magi utique circa hanc insani- 
unt: hac perunctos inpetrare quae 
velint, febres abigere, amicitias con- 





[epi meptorepedvos.] mepiorepewsv pds: oi de 
mepioréptov, of dé Tpuywyiov, of 6é Bovviov, oi dé iepa 
Bordyn, of 6é piirpodédrns, [Alyimrioe meupeurté, 
mpopnrat “Hpas ddxpvov, of dé alua yanijs,' oi de 
aiua “Eppuod, ‘Pwuator xpiora yah\wdxea, ol d€ pep- 
papa (so cod. N. pépia vulg.), of dé tprEaris, of dé 
é£ovmepavs (so cod. N. é£ov7epa vulg.), of de &pBa 
cayyourdds, (cod. N. adds radouuBdpis,)] pverac 
év évtdpors Tomas: Soke? 6€ wvoudobar é€x Tod Tas 
Tepiotepas noéws diatpiBew ev airy. mba dé eare 
omlauny éxovca TO UWos 7 Kal wetcov, wéraNa évTerT- 
unuéva wrbdevKa éxtrepuKdra (€umeduxdra cod. C.) 
€k TOD KavAOD* povdKkAwvos (uovdxavdos cod. C.) ws 
TO TON Kal wovdppifos evpicxerat. Soxet dé TA PUAA 
abv podlyw 7 oréare Xotpelw veapw mpooribéueva av- 
wouviay borépas moeiv: oré\Nex O€ Kal Epvourédara 
ov ofe karat\acbeioa Kal onmedivas éréxer* Kal 
Tpavpara KONG, Kal amrovAol Ta mahaia ody MENLTL. 

[rept mepistepedvos wrriov.] mepiorepewy tmrvos, 
ol 5é iepav Bordvyy, ol dé jpryéviov, of dé Xamaidu- 
ov, of 6€ oLOnpirw, ol dé Koupirev, oi dé Ileprepdviov, 


396 Virbius as Dianus 


ciliare nullique non morbo mederi. | of dé Acés jAakarny, of dé Siyxpwyor, oi bé KaAX7- 
colligi debere circa canis ortum ita, | ow, of d€ immdpicov, of 6€ Anunrpidda, [Aiyirrioe 
ne luna aut sol conspiciat, favis ante | reupbeupOdu, IvOaydpas épvoloxnmrpov, ‘Pwpyator 
et melle terrae ad piamentum datis; | kvyxwvddus, (cod. N. adds of dé BepBévaxau, oi dé 
circumscriptam ferro effodi sinistra | Noverpdyw, of dé KoNovuBiva, of 5é ovepridcor,) | 
manu et in sublime tolli; siccari in | paBdous dvinor rnxvaious 7 Kal wel fovas, ywrroerdets, 
umbra separatim folia, caulem, ra- | epi ds ra pia éx StacTyudrwy eorxdra Spvt, wry 
dicem. aiunt, si aqua spargatur | orevwrepa Kal Hrrova, évrerunuéva 6€ TO KUKY, 
triclinium, <in (ins. C. Mayhoff) > vmbyavka’ plfav dé brounKn, NerTHv (NevKHy codd. 
qua maduerit, laetiores convictus | C. N.)*, dv@y woppupa, Newrd. ratiryns Ta PUA 
fieri. adversus serpentes conteritur | cal 7 pita, morufomeva per’ olvov Kai Katat)acod- 
ex vino. meva, Trove’ mpos épmeTa (A. Lacuna cj. pos épryras 

Cp. Isid. org. 17. 9. 55, Macer | kal épuowréNara)* mpds dé ikrepov ra PvAXNa, boov 
Floridus (ze Odo Magdunensis: | < oAKjy, mera AiBavwrod tpiwBddov ody olvov ma- 
see W. S. Teuffel—L. Schwabe | Aad kai Pepuod (so cod. N. and A. Lacuna. The 
History of Roman Literature trans. | editt. omit cal Oepuod) xoTvAn mia vnorer Ep’ Nuépas 
G. C. W. Warr London 1891 i. | réscapas (so cod. C. nuépas uw’ vulg.) mwdueva* 


424) de virtutibus herbarum ed. | oldnwara te xpovia Kal pdeymovas Karaw\acbévra 
H. Ranzovius Lipsiz 1590 1. 66 | mpatver* Kal pumapa €\xn xabalper' éWnbetca dé 
‘de verbena.’ od ody olvw éEcxdpas Tas Ev TapicOuloLs TEpLppHTTEL, 


Kal vouds Tas €v oTduaTe avayapyapifouern Epiornat. 
pawouevoy Te év cuutocias TO amdBpeyua evdLayw- 
yorépous icropetra: moetv* Sdidorar 6€ rptratfoucr 
meiv TO Tpirov yovu aro THs ys ov Tols TEpLKELME- 
| vows pidNoLs, TeTapTaifover dE TO TéTapTov. Kahovct 
6€ alrny ifav Bordynv dia 7d evxXpnoTov ev Tots 
Kabapmots civar els TEepidupuara. 

Cp. L. Apuleius (‘ Apuleius Barbarus’: see W. 
S. Teuffel—L, Schwabe of. cz/. 1892 ii. 244 f.) de 
medicaminibus herbarum 4 ‘nomina et virtutes 
hieras botanes’ in J. C. G. Ackermann Paradilium 
medicamentorum scriptores antigui Norimbergae et 
Altorfii 1788 pp. 151 ff., 309 f. 





C. Sprengel in his note on the passage from Dioskorides identifies repuctepedy dpfds 
with verbena officinalis, wepatepewy Urrios with verbena supina. And these identifications 
are borne out by the coloured drawings of Vindob. Med. Gr. 1 (fol. 268 recto TrepicTe- 
PEWN Ope[oc]=my fig. 301; fol. 269 recto TepicTepewN yTI[TIOC]=my fig. 302). 
See also the hand-painted plates of J. Sibthorp Alora Greca Londini 1827 vi. 43 f. pl. 553 
verbena nodifiora, 1b. 44 pl. 554 verbena supina. 

On the folk-lore of vervain consult A. de Gubernatis Za Mythologie des Plantes Paris 
1882 ii. 367—369, H. Friend Flowers and Flower Lore London 1883 i. 171, 313, 315, 
ii. 429 f., 529 f., 534, 545, 547 f., 591, 607, 609 f., 665, R. Folkard Plant Lore, Legends, 
and Lyrics London 1884 pp. 572—575 and Index p. 609, T. F. Thiselton Dyer Z%e 
folk-Lore of Plants London 1889 pp. 56, 101, 152, 282, 284 f., Schrader Reallex. p. 179, 
S. Seligmann Der bése Blick und Verwandtes Berlin 1910 i. 261, 285, 386, 394 ff., 399, 
ii. 6, 60f., 102; J. Britten—R. Holland A Dictionary of English Plant-Names London 
1878 i. 18 ‘ Ashthroat,’ 39 ‘ Berbine,’ 115 ‘Columbine,’ 1879 ii. 224 * Grass, Pigeon’s,’ 
264 ‘Holy Herb,’ 282 ‘Juno’s Tears,’ 333 ‘Mercury’s Moist Blood,’ 1884 iii. 432 
‘Simpler’s Joy,’ 480 ‘ Vervain’ and ‘ Vervain, Base ov Flat,’ J. Cameron Zhe Gaelic 
Names of Plants? Glasgow 1900 p. 73 f., P. Sébillot Le Folk-Lore de France Paris 1905 
ii. 303, 1906 iii. 472, 476 f., 483 f., 494, K. Simrock Handbuch der Deutschen Mythologie? 
Bonn 1878 p. 272 f. 

Here it is in point to observe that both Pliny and Dioskorides compare the leaves of 
vervain with those of the oak (guercus, 5pts), associate the plant with Iupiter (Plin. zza/. 


m we 
i ‘ 


Virbius as Dianus 397 


hist. 25. 105 hac Iovis mensa verritur, Dioskor. 4. 61 p. 550 Sprengel of dé Aids jAakarny, 
cp. ‘Apuleius Barbarus’ of. cit. 4 tidem dios elacaten (the ed. of Albanus Torinus, 
Basileae 1528, reads a/zz diosatiém). No proveable connexion with Steph. Byz. s.v. 
*HAakaraov* dpos OeccaNias, brov kal Avs ’HAaxaratou lepdv. ro eOvixdy "HNaxaraceds 
kal Leis "Hdaxareds. H. Usener Die Sintfluthsagen Bonn 1899 p. 156, cp. zd. Kleine 
Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 1913 iv. 43 n. 82, would connect Zeus ’H\axaratos with 
HrexTpov, "Héxrpa, “H\éxtwp, “HNexrpuwy as Zeus ‘the Glittering.’ But??), and regard 
it as a panacea. 





Fig. 301. 


Such being its character, vervain would form an appropriate decoration for a bust 
of Virbius at Nemi. Indeed, there remains the possibility, already mooted by P. Butt- 
mann (in the 44. d. berl. Akad. 1819 p. 209=id. Mythologus Berlin 1829 ii. 152), 
Sir James Frazer (Golden Bough*®: The Magic Art ii. 379 n. 5) and myself (/o/k-Lore 
1905 xvi. 290 n. Q), that verbena and Virdius are words of kindred origin. My friend 
Dr P. Giles tells me (May 1, 1918) that the difference of vowel may be a matter of 
dialect, as in Mercurzus beside the Praenestine AZircurios, Mirygurios (Walde Lat. etym. 


398 Virbius as Dianus 


Finally, in 19091 Miss L. Morpurgo published a minute investigation 
of the herm. She claims that the leaves on the breast of either figure 
are beyond doubt those of the guercus robur, that the beard of the 


Weorterb2 p. 478). Assuming that both Virbius and verbena were related to viridis (cp. 
L. Morpurgo in the A/on. d. Linc. 1903 xiii. 356 n. 9), Sir James Frazer had rendered 
Virbtus, ‘The Green One,’ and I had suggested, ‘He of the sacred branch.’ These, 
however, are uncertain conjectures; and there is a tempting alternative (see ixfra 


p. 421 f.). 





Fig. 302. 


1 L. Morpurgo ‘La rappresentazione figurata di Virbio’ in Azsonza 1909 iv. 1og—127 
with figs. 1—6 and pls. 5, A—c and 6, A—c (=my pl. xxii, r—3). Miss Morpurgo’s results 
are accepted by Stuart Jones Cat. Sculpt. Mus. Capit. Rome p. 150f. But W. Helbig 
Fiihrer durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in Rom*® Leipzig 1912 
i. 439~still advocates his own identification of the double bust as the lakes of Albano 


and Nemi. 


Virbius as Dianus 399 


older head is surmounted by a series of lobes recalling the leafage 
on the breast, that the lower edge of the long moustache has a leaf- 
like dentation, that the mouth of the younger head shows similar 
leaves at its corners, that the Satyr-ears of both heads are lobed like 
leaves!, that the eyebrows throughout are dentate, and that the 
appendages above the brows and beneath the ears exhibit veined 
vegetable forms. 

The Capitoline herm has been commonly regarded as represent- 
ing a pair of water-deities*. But Miss Morpurgo, pursuing her theme, 
contends that the foliation under the eyes of the two figures and 
over the beard of the elder is certainly meant for leaves—not whole 
leaves, but parts of leaves, which (to judge from size and shape) are 
those of the gwercus ilex. She remarks that the chest on either side 
shows a continuous fringe of leaves, modified to look like the frilled 
edge of a tunica or chitén, that the moustache and eyebrows of the 
bearded head are, again, formed of gwasz-leaves, that the ears of 
both heads are dentated, and that the appendages on head and neck 
are neither horns nor fins, but leafage like that which decorates 
the chest. 

On the whole, I conclude (1) that the two herms represent the 
same personages ; (2) that those personages, as I conjectured in 
1902*, are Hippolytos and Virbius, the mythical prototypes of the 
rex Nemorensts ; (3) that Hippolytos-turned-Virbius is portrayed 
as a Janiform bust, partly because, as I argued in 19054, Diana’s 
favourite is conceived as Diana’s consort Dianus or Ianus, partly 
because, as Miss Morpurgo insisted in 1909’, the ancients clung to the 
folk-etymology of Vzrbzus, ‘a man twice over’ (vzr dzs) ; (4) that the 


1 Tn the large frieze from the great altar at Pergamon (sara i. 119 figs. 87 f.) the 
Giant fighting Phoibe has horns in his hair and a left ear like a pointed leaf (Pergamon 
ili. 2. 37 Atlas pl. 29, 3); another, opposed to Parthenos, has long serrated leaves on 
the heads of his two snake-legs and at the juncture of their scales with his skin (70. iii. 2. 
69 Atlas pl. 16). It may be suspected that Pergamene art contributed its quota to the 
style of the Nemi bust. 

2 Supra p. 393 Nn. 2. ] 

3 Supra p. 393 n. 7- 4" Supra Pp. 394 0. I. 

5 L. Morpurgo ‘ La rappresentazione figurata di Virbio’ in Awsozza 1909 iv. 122 (cp. 
her ‘Nemus Aricinum’ in the Moz. d. Linc. 1903 xiii. 356 ff.), citing Cassiod. de ortho- 
graphia 6 (in H. Keil Grammatici Latini Lipsiae 1880 vii. 181, 9 ff.) Virbius etiam 
abstractus a regula, quoniam virum bis factum esse memorant, quem numerum per b 
mutam scribi ante dicta declarant: quidam virum bonum, alii herobium, tamquam sit 
hpws dvaBeBiwxds, alii deum esse qui Viribus praeest interpretantur (Cassiodorus notes 
that his information is taken ‘ex Martyrio de mediis syllabis.’. Martyrius of Sardes, who 
lived in s. vi(?) A.D., was son and pupil of the Latin grammarian Adamantius: see 
De Vit Oxomasticon iv. 383, G. Goetz in Pauly—Wissowa Keal-Enc. i. 343 f.) together 
with Hyg. fad. 251, Serv. 7 Verg. den. 7.761, Vib. Seq. p. 152, 6f. Riese (supra p. 394 
n. 2), Lact. Plac. marr. fab. 15. 45, schol. Pers. sat. 6. 56. 


400 Diana and the Oak 


double bust is decorated, not, as Helbig suggested in 18851, with fins 
and aquatic plants, but, as Prof. Granger pointed out in 1907?, with 
oak-leaves—those of the guercus robur, according to Miss Morpurgo’, 
in the case of the first herm and those of the guercus zlex in the case 
of the second. I do not, however, agree with Sir James Frazer and 
Prof. Granger that the priest of Nemi personified the oak*. Rather 
I should maintain that the oak was the tree of Diana, and that 
Virbius is plastered with oak-leaves because he is her partner*>—the 
local Dianus or Ianus, 


(¢) Diana and the Oak. 


Diana, as I have elsewhere shown‘, had a special liking for oak- 
trees. At Rome her chief temple. was that founded by Servius 
Tullius on the Aventine’, whose slopes in early days were shaded 
by a grove of holm-oaks, the haunt of Picus and Faunus’. A ‘very 
great and venerable sanctuary of Diana’ was on the Caeliolus’, 
which formed part of the Mons Querquetulanus® or ‘Mount of 
Oaks" There was also an ancient Dianium at the upper end of the 


1 Supra p. 393 Nn. 4. 2 Supra p. 394 nN. 4. 

3 Supra p. 398 n. I. + Supra p. 395. 

SE SUPKE ty Tags 

6 Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 369 ff., Holk-Lore tgo5 xvi. 281 ff. See also Frazer Golden 
Bough*®: The Magic Art ii. 380. 

7 H. Jordan—C. Huelsen Zofographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1907 1. 
3-157 ff. 

8 Ov. fast. 3. 295 ff. 

® Cic. de har. resp. 32 maximum et sanctissimum Dianae sacellum in Caeliculo. 

10 "Tacs G2. Ae OG. 

1G, Gatti in the Bul? Comm. Arch. Comun. di Roma 1887 pp. 314—317 pl. 19 
(=my fig. 303) publishes a large marble relief, originally found near the Jalum Punicum 
between the Baths of Diocletian and the slope of the Quirinal towards the Viminal, which 
represents three male figures: (a) in the centre, Iupiter standing en face, with a chlamyjs 
over his left shoulder, a sceptre in his left hand, a thunderbolt (?) in his right, and an 
eagle at his feet; (4) to the left, Hercules (?.a portrait of the youthful Commodus) erect 
facing the spectator, with lion-skin on his left arm, apples (restored) in his left hand, and 
club in his lowered right; (c) to the right, a mountain-god seated on a rock towards 
Iupiter, with a /zmation wrapped about his legs. Between Iupiter and Hercules grows 
an oak. Beside the mountain-god is a bay-tree. Beneath runs the inscription (Corp. 
énscr. Lat. vi no. 334 with Add. no. 30739, Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 3080) Herculi | 
Iuliano, || Iovi | Caelio, || Genio | Caeli Montis |) Anna sacrum. C. L. Visconti in the 
Bull. Comm. Arch. Comun. di Roma 1887 p. 342f. conjectures that the oak alludes to 
the A/ons Querguetulanus. H. Jordan—C. Huelsen of. cit. i. 3. 221 n. 6 doubt it. 
Reinach Rep. Reliefs iii. 200 no. 3 is silent. Possibly in the oak planted near Iupiter 
Caelius, or else in the bay-tree clasped by the Genius Caeli Montis, we should recognise 
the arborem sanctam mentioned among the sights of the Mons Caelius by the curiosum 
urbis regionum xiv and the notitia regionum urbis xiv reg. 2 (I. Jordan Zopographie der 
Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1871 ii. 543). 

Be that as it may, Iupiter Cae/ias was happily named. His worshippers would think, 
not merely of the A/oxs Caeléus, but also of Iupiter Caedus (?) (supra i. 59 n. 11), Caelestis 


Diana and the Oak 401 


Vicus Cuprius, where the Clivus Virbius turns to the right and leads 
up the Fagutal onto the Esquiline’. The existence of oaks on the 
Esquiline can be inferred from its chapel of the Lares Querguetulanz”. 


(Corp. inscr. Lat. iii no. 1948 (Salonae in Dalmatia) Iovi O(pt)imo | Maximo | Celesti 
Patrono | G. Caesius Corym|bus et Faberia | Cara v.s.].m., no. 8668= Dessau Zrscr. Lat. 
sel. no. 3041 (Salonae in Dalmatia) T. Pinarius Eros | Iovi Caelesti v-s.|l.m., Cop. cnscr. 
Lat. x no. 4852=Orelli—Henzen /nscr. Lat. sel. no. 5618 (Venafrum) cult(ores) Iovis 
Cae(lestis) | etc., Corp. inzscr. Lat. xi no. 5643 (Matilica in Umbria) N. Ortorifus] | N. f. 
Pol(lia) | Ferox | Aesae | evocatus Aug. | Iovi Caelesti | v.s.l.m., cp. Cic. de har. resp. 20, 
Liv. 1. 32), Caelestinus (Corp. inscr. Lat. vi no. 404 with Add. no. 30756=Orelli Zzser. 
Lat sel. no. 1223=Dessau Jnscr. Lat. sel. no. 3062 (Rome) Lovi Optimd Maximé | 





Fig. 303. 


Caelestino, Fontibus, et | Minervae, et collegid | sanctissimo, quod consis|tit in praedis 
Larci Macejdonis (cos. suff. in 122 A.D.) | in curia, | Flavius Successus cum suis. || 
T. Flavius | Successus | d.d., on which see G. Wissowa in Pauly—Wissowa feal-Enc. 
ili. 1247), caelipotens (Plaut. Pers. 755). Popular etymology has often been pressed into 
the service of religion. 

iv Liv. 1: 48; Solin, 1 25: 

2 Varr. de ling. Lat. 5. 49 secundae regionis Esquili[nJae. alii (grammaticae ante- 
varronianae ex incertis incertorum libris frag. 8 Funaioli) has scripserunt ab excubiis 
regis dictas (cp. Ov. fast. 3. 245 f.), alii ab eo quod excultae (A. Spengel cj. aescul<is 





CAN: 26 


402 Diana and the Oak 


Moreover, the beech-trees of the Fagutal may have been a ritual, as 
they were certainly an etymological, equivalent for oaks’. The same 


consi>tae B.tenBrink cj. <aesculis> excultae G. Goetz—F. Schoell cjj. excultae 
<arboribus>) a rege Tullio essent (C. O. Miiller suppl. adzz ad aesculetis), huic origini 
magis concinunt loca vicini (G. Goetz—F. Schoell note that we must read either Joc? 
vicint with P. Canal or /oca vicina), quod ibi lucus dicitur Facutalis et Larum (C. O. 
Miiller ins. e¢) Querquetulanum sacellum et lucus Mefitis et Iunonis Lucinae, quorum 
angusti fines. I take it that Querguetulanum is an old gen. plur. agreeing with Larum, 
not a nom. sing. agreeing with sacellum. These Lares Querqguetulanz, of whom nothing 
more is known, presumably stood in some relation to the Querguetulanae Virae described 
as ‘Nymphs presiding over a verdant oak-grove such as that said to have grown within 
the gate thence called Querguetularia’ (Fest. p. 261 a 17 ff. Miiller, p. 314, 11 ff. Lindsay 
Querquetulanae virae putantur significari nymphae praesidentes querqueto virescenti, 
quod genus silvae iudicant fuisse intra portam, quae ab eo dicta sit Querquetularia, cp. 
Paul. ex Fest. p. 260, 5 Miiller, p. 315, 6f. Lindsay, with Plin. za¢. Azst. 16. 37 porta 
Querquetulana). It is therefore tempting to suppose with B. Borghesi Zuures completes 
Décades numismatiques Paris 1862 i. 365 ff. that dezarzz struck c. 41 B.C. by P. Accoleius 
Lariscolus have for oby. type the bust of Acca Larentia, and for rev. the Querquetulanae 
Virae—three statues in the form of archaistic Caryatids supporting a beam or stand, from 
which rise five trees: the nymph on the left holds a bow, the nymph on the nght a lily 
(Morell. Zhes. Mum. Fam. Rom. i. 2 pl. Accoleia, 1, Babelon Monn. rép. rom. i. 98 ff. 
figs., Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. i. 569 f. (where H. A. Grueber says: ‘the nymph 
on the 1. holds a poppy’) pl. 55, 19 (=my fig. 304) and 20. Fig. 305 f. are from specimens 





Fig. 304. Fig. 305. 


in my collection). Nevertheless this popular explanation (O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. 
Myth, iv. g fig.) is demonstrably wrong. The name ZLarisco/us cannot possibly mean 
‘Worshipper of the Lar or Lares,’ but is a diminutive of /avéx (“*laric-isco-lo- >lariscolo-, 
cp. cornix, Corniscae) and denotes ‘Young larch.’ Cp. the name M. Caesius Larix (Cor. 
znscr. Lat. x no. 2019, 3 Puteoli). Again, the trees, of which three are springing from 
the heads of the alleged oak-nymphs, do not bear the least resemblance to oaks, but 
may well be intended for larches. I therefore fall back on the view adopted by Eckhel 
Docir. num. vet. v. 118 (curiously misrepresented by H. A. Grueber of. c7t. i. 569 n. 1) 
that the three female figures are those of Phaethon’s sisters here conceived as trans- 
formed into larches. See further De Vit Oxomasticon iv. 48, who defends Eckhel by 
citing Vitr. 2. 9. 14 larix vero, quae non est nota nisi is municipalibus qui sunt circa ripam 
fluminis Padi et litora maris Hadriani, etc. Znfra § 3 (a) vi (A) med. 

1 Fagus=gnyos. Several altars dedicated to a god Fagus have come to light in 
Aquitania (Corp. znser. Lat. xiii no. 33 (Ladzvert near Saint- Béat) Fago deo | Erdenius | 
Erdesci f(ilius) | v.s.l.m., no. 223=Dessau /uscr. Lat. sel. no. 4531 (near Lugdunum 
Convenarum (Saz#t-Bertrand-de-Comminges)) Fago | deo | Bonxus | Taurini f(ilius), 
Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 224 (found with no. 223) Fago | deo | Iustus | v.s.].m., no. 225 
(found in the same neighbourhood as nos. 223, 224) Fago deo | Pompeia | C. filia | 
y.s.l.m.). The beech-tree seems to have retained something of its sanctity in this district, 
cp. A. de Gubernatis Za Mythologie des Plantes Paris 1882 ii. 170 f, ‘ D’aprés une tradi- 
tion toujours vivante aux Pyrénées, un homme, au moment méme ou le bon Dieu passait 


Diana and the Oak 403 


change from oak to beech seems to have taken place on the hill 
called Corne near Tusculum, where Diana was worshipped in a 
remarkable grove of beeches'. But outside Rome the most famous 


pres de lui, murmurait et blasphémait ; Dieu le changea immédiatement en ours. D’apreés 
une autre tradition [des Pyrénées] (cf. [E.] Rolland, Faune populaire de la France [Paris 
1877 i. 42 f.]), un homme, en battant le fer chaud sur l’enclume, en fit jaillir les étincelles 
jusqu’aux yeux du bon Dieu lui-méme, qui ne manqua point de le maudire, le con- 
damnant a devenir ours, avec la condition qu’il pourrait monter a son gré sur tous les 
arbres, a l’exception du hétre. Devenu ours, l’homme songea alors a déraciner cet arbre: 
**Ous bos esta, et ous seras, | En tout arbre puyeras, | Sous qu’en hau nou pouderas. | 
Arringa lou que harey.”’ [z.e. ‘Ours tu veux étre, ours tu seras, | a tout arbre tu grim- 
peras, | hormis au hétre.’ | ‘Eh bien je le déracinerai.’]. In the Luxemburg Ardennes 
and in Lorraine it is believed that the beech is never struck by lightning (P. Sébillot 
Le Folk-Lore de France Paris 1906 iii. 381, cp. R. Folkard Plant Lore, Legends, and 
Lyrics London 1884 p. 250). A list of 253 trees venerated in the department of Oise, 
which was drawn up in 1854, included 74 elms, 27 oaks, 24 thorns, 15 walnuts, 14 beeches, 
14 limes, etc. (P. Sébillot of. ct¢. iii. 424). It will be observed that the beech stands next 
to the oaks in the list of lucky trees preserved by Macrob. Saz. 3. 20. 2 ait enim Veranius 
de verbis pontificalibus (frag. 3 Funaioli) : ‘felices arbores putantur esse quercus, aesculus, 
ilex, suberies (so L. Jan for szberzs cod. P.), fagus, corylus, sorbus, ficus alba, pirus, 
malus, vitis, prunus, cornus, lotus.’ Iupiter /agutal’s was worshipped on the Fagutal 
(Varr. de ing. Lat. 5. 152 Fagutal a fago, unde etiam Iovis Fagutalis, quod ibi sacellum, 
Paul. ex Fest. p. 87, 6 Miller, p. 77, 13 f. Lindsay Fagutal sacellum Iovis, in quo fuit 
fagus arbor, quae lovis sacra habebatur, Plin. saz. hist. 16. 37 silvarum certe distingue- 
batur (sc. Roma) insignibus, Fagutali love etiam nunc ubi lucus fageus fuit, etc.), where 
his cult is known to have lasted on till the year 1og A.D. (Corp. inscr. Lat. vi no. 452 
= Dessau /uscy. Lat. sel. no. 3620 [Laribus A]ugust. vici Iovis Fagutal[is et | Genis 
Caesarum, iJmp. Nerva divi Nervae f. Traianfo | Aug. Germanico Dacl]ico pont. max. 


trib. pot. xiii imp. vi [cos. v, | permissu]...... Pollionis trib. pleb., aed(iculam) reg. ili 
vetusta[te | dilapsam a solo maJgistri anni cxxi sua inpensa restitu[er.] | ....... Phoebus, 
A. Nonius A. 1. Onesimus, | ......... Callistus, L. Valerius L.1. Eutichus) : see H. Jordan— 


C. Huelsen Zopographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1907 i. 3. 256 f. 

I Plin. zat. hist. 16. 242 est in suburbano Tusculani agri colle, qui Corne appellatur, 
lucus antiqua religione Dianae sacratus a Latino (so J. Hardouin for Zaz¢zo codd.), velut 
arte tonsili coma fagei nemoris. in hoc arborem eximiam aetate nostra amavit Passienus 
Crispus bis cos. (cp. Dessau /zscr. Lat. sel. no. 7061), orator, Agrippinae matrimonio et 
Nerone privigno clarior postea, osculari conplectique eam solitus, non modo cubare sub 
ea vinumque illi adfundere. vicina luco est ilex, et ipsa nobilis xxxiv pedum ambitu 
caudicis, decem arbores emittens singulas magnitudinis visendae silvamque sola faciens. 
No doubt the big beech was a beauty: Theophr. Azst. plant. 5. 8. 3 expressly comments 
on the enormous size of beech-trees in the lowlands of Latium. Nevertheless it is simply 
inconceivable that C. Passienus Crispus, a Roman of exceptional ability and distinction, 
the husband first of Domitia and then of Agrippina the younger (Suet. v. Pass. Crisp.), 
should have behaved thus towards a mere tree—kissing it, embracing it, lying beneath it, 
pouring wine over it,—unless he in some sense identified the tree with the goddess 
(Frazer Golden Bough*®: The Magic Art. i. 40 n. 4). Presumably he regarded himself, 
not only as her protector (cp. Hdt. 7. 31), but actually as her husband. This would be 
in strict accordance with local usage; for six or seven miles away, as the crow flies, the 
rex Nemorensis was even then playing a similar part. Diana’s tree in the grove near 
Tusculum was, I take it, comparable with Diana’s tree in the grove at Nemi. And, if 
Caligula posed as the priestly king of Nemi (Suet. Calig. 35 cited supra p. 147 n. 6: see 
also the imperial house-boats described and illustrated by R. Lanciani ew Tales of Old 
Rome London 1got p. 205 ff.), Passienus Crispus, his brother-in-law and intimate (Suet. 


26—2 


404 Diana and the Oak 


cult of the goddess was that on Mount Tifata some thirty furlongs 
north of Capua!; and the name 77fafa, according to Verrius 
Flaccus, meant ‘Woods of Evergreen Oak?’ Another of her 
homes was Mount Algidus in Latium’, where oaks and holm-oaks 
abounded‘. And from Mount Algidus it is but a few miles to Nemi. 
That being so, we may fairly surmise that at Nemi too Diana had 


her favourite oaks. 
In passing I may observe that this association of Diana with the 
oak has left its mark on the art of the Graeco-Roman age. Land- 


v. Pass. Crisp.), may have done the same at Tusculum. In this connexion it must be 
remembered, on the one hand that Latinus Silvius, who founded Tusculum (Diod. 7. 5 
(ii. 133, 30 ff. Vogel) af. Euseb. chvon. vers. Armen. (i. 287, 7 ff. Schone)) and dedicated 
the beech-grove to Diana (Plin. doc. cit.), belonged’ to a dynasty of woudland kings (see 
the Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 363 f., Fodk-Lore 1905 xvi. 285 ff., Frazer Golden Bough? : 
The Magic Art ii. 178 ff., 192, 379) and would be likely enough to institute such a 
custom ; on the other hand that Passienus Crispus hailed from Vitellia (in Suet. v. Pass. 
Crisp. read Vitelliensis for the meaningless Vzse//zensis codd.), an ancient Latin town, 
the home of the Vitellii, descendants of Faunus king of the Aborigines and the goddess 
Vitellia (Suet. Vitel/. 1), and would be likely enough to revive such a custom. 

1 E. H. Bunbury in Smith Dée¢. Geogr. ii. 1207, P. Paris in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. 
Ant. iil. 155, G. Wissowa in Pauly—Wissowa Keal-Enc. v. 326 ff., a. Rel. Kult. Rim.” 
PP: 247, 251. 

2 Paul. ex Fest. p. 366, 8 Miiller, p. 503, 14 f. Lindsay Tifata iliceta. Romae autem 
Tifata Curia. Tifata etiam locus iuxta Capuam. Cp. Paul. ex Fest. p. 49, 18 Miiller, 
P- 43, 13 Lindsay Curia Tifata (so Scaliger for Cuszatz fana codd.) a Curio dicta est, 
qui[a] eo loco domum habuerat, p. 131, 1 Miiller, p. 117, 1 f. Lindsay Mancina Tifata 
appellabantur, quod Mancinus habuit insignem domum, quae publicata est eo interfecto. 
Paulus’ information is ultimately derived from the dictionary of Verrius Flaccus (¢zfra 
Append. N znz¢.). F. Buecheler in the Ahetx. Mus. 1884 xxxix. 421 f. connects ¢fata 
with the Sabine eda, ‘hill’ (Varr. ver. rust. 3. 1. 6), cp. R. S. Conway The /talic Dialects 
Cambridge 1897 i. 221, 358. And G. Meyer Etymologisches Worterbuch der albanesischen 
Sprache Strassburg 1891 p. 430 s.v. ‘¢émp’ and in the Judogermantsche Forschungen 
1892 i. 324 would relate ¢eba to the Carian raBa, ‘rock’ (Steph. Byz. s.v. TaBac). If 
so, all these words are probably survivals from a pre-Indo-Europaean language, cp. 
Walde Lat. etym. Worterb.* p. 766 s.v. ‘teba,’ I. Thomopoulos Hedaoyixa Athens 1912 
pp- 212f., 419. But Walde of. czt.? p. 778 s.v. ‘tibulus’ suggests that ¢z/a¢a is akin to 
ttbulus, a variety of wild pine (Plin. az. hist. 16. 39), cp. A. Ernout Les édéments 
dialectaux du vocabulaire latin Paris 1909 pp. 27, 75, 237 (‘C'est donc a losque que le 
latin a emprunté le mot’). We need more light. 

The woods of Mt Tifata are mentioned by Sil. It. 13. 219 Tifata umbrifero...monte. 

3 E. H. Bunbury in Smith Dict. Geogr. i: 103, P. Paris in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. 
Ant. ii. 154, C. Hiilsen in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 1476. 

* Hor. od. 3.23. 9f., 4. 4. 57, cp. od. I. 21. 6 f. and Stat. see. 4-4. 16) “When in 
458 B.c. Roman envoys were sent to complain of a treaty broken by the Aequi, they 
were bidden to make their complaint to a huge oak-tree on Mt Algidus, under the shade 
of whose branches the Aequian commander had his quarters (Liv. 3. 25 eos Aequorum 
imperator, quae mandata habeant ab senatu Romano, ad quercum iubet dicere : se alia 
interim acturum. quercus ingens arbor praetorio imminebat, cuius umbra opaca sedes 
erat. tum ex legatis unus abiens ‘et haec’ inquit ‘sacrata quercus et quidquid deorum 
est audiant foedus a vobis ruptum nostrisque et nunc querellis adsint et mox armis, cum 
deorum hominumque simul violata iura exsequemur’). 


Artemis and the Oak 405 


scape-reliefs already described! twice represent an old oak growing 
beside a Diana-pillar, and once show its trunk spanned by an 
archway, which we now know to be a zanus, the very embodiment 
of Diana’s consort Dianus?. 


(vy) Artemis and the Oak. 


Similarly on Greek soil the earth-goddess, who under various 
names fulfilled the same functions as Diana, was frequently con- 
nected with the oak. The Amazons, when they founded the cult in 
the Artemision at Ephesos, set up the effigy of their goddess ‘beneath 
an oak-tree of noble girth®’; and in Roman times the image of 
Artemis /pheséa wore a garland of flowers with a necklace of acorns 
hanging below it (figs. 307, 315). Again, Neleus, son of Kodros, 


1 Supra p. 150 n. 3 figs. g1, 92. 

2 Supra p. 354 ff. Cp. a fragmentary relief at Copenhagen (L. Miiller A/usée- Thor- 
valdsen Troisieme partie. Antiquités. Section i et ii. Copenhague 1847 p. r4of. no. 81, 
Gerhard Ant. Bildw. p. 359 pl. 111, 4, T. Schreiber Die hellenistischen Reliefbilder 
Leipzig 1890 pl. 69, Zinzelaufnahmen no. 1480 Mitte with Text v. 113 by P. Arndt), on 
which a Diana-pillar, with //knon, phallés, and lagobélon, is seen beneath an arched tripod 
(?) or round altar (?) bearing a goat’s-head (?). Height o715™. 

3 Kallim. 2. Artem. 237 ff. col kal’ Auatovldes rodduou émcOuunrecpac | év more (the older 
codd. read év kore, whence O. Schneider cj. éyxu7l—a thoroughly bad emendation) 
mapahin "Edéow Bpéras lépicavro | dnyp bm’ ev’mpéuvw (so A. Hecker, followed by 
A. Meineke and O. Schneider, for gdnyy trd mpéuvm codd. U. von Wilamowitz- 
Moellendorff still retains in his text the impossible reading of the manuscripts) 7é\ecev 
5€ rot lepov ‘Immw: | k.7-A. With this cp. Dionys. ser. 827 ff. mapadtny “Eqdeoor, weyddnv 
médw ‘loxealpns, | évOa Oey wore vndv Auatovides rervKovTo | mpéuvw eve mredéns, mepidbovov 
avipdo. Gaia. The oak-tree is here changed into an elm, perhaps because the original 
oak had long since decayed, whereas in’ later days the city (presumably one quarter of it) 
was called after a conspicuous elm-tree (Plin. zat. hzst. 5. 115 Ephesus...multis antea 
expetita nominibus...vocata...et Ptelea, Steph. Byz. s.v. “Egecos:...ékaNetro d€...kat IIredéa. 
6 toNirns IIreXeatos...kal IIreXedrns 6 roXirns). 

The scientific excavation of the Artemision, commenced by Mr Hogarth in 1904, has 
made it probable that the first sanctuary on the site was in fact a small tree-shrine 
(D. G. Hogarth Excavations at Ephesus London 1908 p. 72 ‘The tree-shrine may be 
held to be represented by our Basis A with its altar or dependent platform on the west, 
enclosed within a paved ¢emenos; and the building erected over it, by the restoration 3, 
which amplified these central structures and united them in one platform, in a manner 
hardly to be accounted for except on the supposition that a considerable superstructure 
was to be erected on the new platform’ with p. 52 ff. fig. 13 ff. and Atlas pl. 1f. See also 
W. R. Lethaby ‘The earlier temple of Artemis at Ephesus’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 
1917 xxxvii. 15 fig. 15). It is even possible that the isolated column, which in the sixth- 
century building (D. G. Hogarth of. czt. p. 283 f. Atlas pl. 12) and again in the fourth- 
century building (see Plin. zat. hist. 36. 95) stood immediately behind the cult-image, 
was an architectural substitute for the sacred tree. A column in such a position might 
well be differentiated from the rest (cp. the one Corinthian column in the temple of 
Apollon Zfzkozrios at Bassai: Durm Baukunst d. Gr.® p. 270 fig. 240 4, p. 346 fig. 331, 
P- 349 fig. 335, a, b, c, p. 429 fig. 391) and adorned with carving rightly or wrongly 
attributed to Skopas (Plin. /oc. czt., where the text wa a Seppa has been needlessly altered 
by J. J. Winckelmann and K. L. von Urlichs to wo scafo, by A. S. Murray to zmo scapo). 

4 Literary and inscriptional evidence concerning the cult of Artemis at Ephesos is 


406 Artemis and the Oak 


printed z# extenso by O. Benndorf in the Forschungen in Ephesos Wien 1906 i. 237—274 


——- 


Gy Z 
| my (ua 
i 2 











ess 
\\ y 


SSIS 
Ea 


eS 


a 
Thess 


nee 


se 


Ea A 
BLA JA 


SS 





yA 




















(an exhaustive series of 435 ex- 
tracts got together by E. Guhl for 
his Ephesiaca Berlin 1843) and 
278—282 (83 inscriptions). <A 
convenient summary and dis- 
cussion of the daza is contributed 
by O. Jessen to Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc.v.2753—2771- I must 
content myself with two or three 
typical illustrations. Among the 
statuettes etc. representing Arte- 
mis Ephesta (6. p. 2764f. The 
best monograph is still C. Mene- 
treius Symbolica Diane Ephesiea 
statua® Romae 1688, bound up 
with L. Holstenius Zfzstola ad 
franciscum Cardinalem Barberi- 
num de fulcris seu verubus Diane 
Ephesia simulacro appositis Ro- 
mae 1688 and G. P. Bellori Vote 
in numismata tum Ephesia, tum 
aliarum urbium apibus insignita) 
none is more remarkable than a 
small figure in the Capitoline 
Museum, described as follows by 
Stuart Jones Cat. Sculpt. Mus. 
Capit. Rome p. 157 ft. Sala delle 
Colombe no. 49 pl. 38: ‘ H. *86 m. 
to top of plinth, plinth :246 m. 
Marble: head, hands, and feet of 
bigio morato, eyes of enamel; the 
rest of Luna. Restored: the crown 
has been broken off and refixed ; 
one column on the 1. and the 
whole row on the r. of the temple 
at the top; semicircular veil with 
three foreparts of griffins on 1. of 
head, and the head of the top 
griffin on the r. (possibly the whole 
piece of veil on this side); fore- 
part of lion on r. forearm; parts 
of breasts ; little finger of r. hand 
and index finger of 1.; heads of 
three stags in the top row on 
skirt. (The figure has been broken 
through below them.) Other small 
fragments. Amelung adds, the 
double tower, face, hands and 
feet. 

The relief on the base has been 
much broken. Restored: all the 
lower part of the base including 
the whole of the figure on the 1. of 


Artemis and the Oak 407 


the thymiaterion, most of the thymiaterion, part of the figure on the r. of it, and the lower 
third of the figure on the extreme 1.; the lower |. angle. 

This statuette of the Ephesian Artemis has the usual hieratic attitude, with both feet 
together, the arms held out parallel, and the face looking straight forward. On her head 
is a lofty crown composed of several tiers, with a temple at the summit having porticoes 
on three sides. Below are circles of the foreparts (1) of sphinxes, and (2) of griffins; the 
next tier consists of a round tower with masonry and 


battlements indicated; and the whole rests on a pad Le 
formed of a twisted taenia with rosettes. Behind the a 

. . ate . . eae. e| 
head, on each side, is a semicircular disk with the fore- aah es te 
parts of three griffins. ~ bec 


The upper part of the chest is adorned with a gar- 
land of flowers, encircled by a twisted taenia, and having 
acorns depending from it; it hangs from the shoulders, 
and encloses a relief of two Victories, with palms in 
their hands, holding up a single wreath, beneath which 
isa crab. Above each head is a flower. Parallel with 
the garland, and below it, hangs a fillet. Under this 
are four rows of breasts. 

On each forearm, which is covered by a long sleeve, 
sits a small lion. 

Below the breasts the body is enclosed in a kind of 
sheath gradually diminishing in size and reaching nearly 
to the feet; below it the folds of a long thin chiton 
spread fanlike above the feet. The sheath is divided 





horizontally, on each side and in front, into five com- Key 
partments. Those each side bear reliefs of a Scylla, WLLL 





a bee, a rosette or flower, a bee, and a rosette again. 
Those in front are decorated with rows of the foreparts 
of animals: viz. (1) three stags, (2) three winged eagle- 
headed griffins, (3) three lion-headed griffins, (4) two 
winged lion-headed griffins, (5) two oxen. 

The base on which the figure stands, and which 
probably does not belong, is surmounted by a plinth 
of four steps. The base grows larger in size at the 
lower edge and the sides are concave. The front bears 
a relief showing two female figures on each side ap- 
proaching a lighted thymiaterion from opposite direc- 
tions. The two outer figures play double flutes and 
wear a long chiton and himation, which in the right- 
hand figure goes over the head; the inner figure on 
the right, which is antique, is smaller, veiled, and 
draped, and has a fringe of tight curls; the figure pro- 
bably carried some object (Amelung suggests a distaff), 
but the hand is restored. There is a similar base in 
the Vatican [Amelung Scz/pt. Vatic. ii. 626 f. no. 411.4 
pl. 52].’ 

See further C. Menetreius of. cz¢.? p. 10 pl. on left, Fig. 308. 
Montfaucon Antiquity Explained trans. D. Humphreys 
London 1721 i. 97 pl. 46 (after Menetreius), P. Righetti Descrizione del Campidoglio 
Roma 1833 i. 193 pl. 192 (inexact), Gerhard Ant. Bildw. p. 396 pl. 307, 26 (bust 
only), Reinach #é. Stat. ii. 321 no. 4 (text erroneous). W. Amelung in the Jahresh. 
d. oest. arch. Inst. 190g xii. 173 ff. figs. 83—85 notes that on the upper surface of 
the base, to right and left of the stepped plinth, there were originally two rectangular 
slabs supporting side-attributes. He also insists that the double turreted crown is a 


" t NAF 
ge fa y LKOS 





























408 Artemis and the Oak 


mistaken modern addition. And he cleverly confirms the presence of the attributes and 
the absence of the turrets by citing one of Raphael’s painted pilasters in the Gallery of 
the Vatican (G. Ottaviani [Le Loggte di Raffaello nel Vaticano Roma 176— J no. vi C. 
Savorelli pict., P. Camporesi delin.=my fig. 308), where by a curious coincidence the 
great artist has made an oak-tree with acorns to emerge from behind the back of the 
Ephesian goddess. Numismatic evidence proves that the missing attributes were two stags, 
and makes it likely that the hands of the goddess were tethered by means of fillets (Hesych. 
5.U. KAnides’...kal mapa ’Eqectous ris Oeod ta oréupara. The notion that these lateral 
appendages were solid supports called verwa rests on Min. Fel. Oct. 22. 5 et Ephesia 
mammis multis el veribus (so cod. Par. verubus ed. princ. Romana ann. 1543) exstructa, 
where however F. Ursinus, followed by many critics including C. Halm, cj. wberibus. 
J. J. Scaliger’s cj. ¢eberibus has met with less acceptance)—hardly bonds to prevent her 
from quitting her temple (M. Collignon af. F. Cumont in the Comptes rendus de 1’ Acad. 
des inscr. et belles-lettves 1915 p- 273 n. 4), but rather ties to bring the very ground into 
magic connexion with her hands (cp. Ail. var. hist. 3. 26 Owpmtyyas, Plout. v. Sol. 12 
xpbkny KMwornv, Loukian. He7c. 3 cepal Newral ypucod Kal 7déxTpov elpyacuévat, etc.). 
The fillets are most clearly shown on silver coins struck at Ephesos by Claudius and 
Agrippina (Morell. Zhes. Num. Jip. Rom. ii. 17 pl. 4, 23 f., Stevenson—Smith— Madden 
Dict. Rom. Coins p. 324f. fig., P. Gardner Zypes of Gk. Corns p. 78 pl. 15, 4=my fig. 309, 





Fig. 310. 


D. G. Hogarth Excavations at Ephesus London 1908 p. 332 pl. 52, 4, Cohen Monn. 
emp. rom.” i. 273 no. I fig.) or on coppers of Kadoi in Phrygia issued under the name of 
Domitia (L. Holstenius of. ct. p. 10 fig., Brzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 120 pl. 15, 2 
=my fig. 310). And the general effect of the effigy is to be seen from a bronze coin of 
Apameia struck by Gordian, on which Artemis Z/fheséa, with a small tetrastyle temple 
on her head, fillets stretched from her hands to the ground, and a stag on either side 





Fig. 312. Hires us 


of her, appears in the midst of four river-gods Maiandros (MAI), Marsyas (4AM), 
Therma(s? -ios ?) (99), and Orgas (QO) (Sir W. M. Ramsay Zhe Cities and Bishoprics 
of Phrygia Oxford 1897 ii. 398 f., 402 n. 2, 432 pl. 1, 1=my fig. 311, Head vst. num.? 
p- 667 fig. 314, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. xxxixf.), or from a smaller bronze coin 
of Neapolis in Samaria, struck by Faustina Iunior, on which the goddess has a head-dress 


Artemis and the Oak 409 


on leading a band of colonists from Athens to Miletos, was bidden 
by an oracle to make an image of Artemis ‘ from very fruitful wood.’ 
He started during a festival of Artemis C/z¢éne, discovered an oak 
with rich and varied fruitage hung upon it, made therefrom an image 


of three plumes [?a Sphinx, cp. fig. 307. A. B.C.] surmounted by a tetrastyle temple, 
pectoral decoration of two Victories holding a wreath, large garland, panelled sheath, 
stags on either side, and fillets treated as dove-sceptres (G. F. Hill Some Palestinian 
Cults in the Graeco-Roman Age London 1912 p. 6f. fig. 9 (extr. from the Proc. Brit. 
Acad. v), Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Palestine pp. xxxi, 54 pl. 6, 5=my fig. 312). 

A figure so full of complex symbolifsm implies the growth of ages. The temple on top 
may be safely regarded as a late and perhaps Egyptising addition: cp. the small ads on 
the head of Nehemauit (Lanzone Dision. di Mitol. Egiz. p. 435 f. pl. 174, I—3, 













ea cX.| eae ¥ 
Tierenxe | 








Cx ul 


Ee Yo} 
mt ie AM 


eat na Ot 
lif —- Ea Koh) 


eal | PANU CFT Mt 
Tee SAI AML EK ! 


oe NAA Keo 
ET 
SSE 200 9/8 8890009 282 
| Comba 314. 


E. A. Wallis Budge The Gods of the Egyptians London 1904 i. 421 f. pl. 14 calls it ‘the 
sistrum’ !) or of Hathor (Lanzone of. cz. p. 892 pl. 317, 2f. E. A. Wallis Budge of. cit. 
i. 430 pl. 19, bound up as pl. 20, calls it ‘a pylon’)—a possibility (suggested independently 
by Mr H. R. Hall af. G. F. Hill of. et. p. 7 n.1 (= Proc. Brit. Acad. v. 417 n. 1)) which 
should have been considered by W. Amelung Joc. cit. The attachment of the fillets to the 
ground was also an afterthought. Sometimes they are represented as swinging clear: 
é.g. on a bronze coin of Ephesos struck by Domitian (T. Schreiber in the Arch. Zeit. 
1883 xli. 284 fig. 4=my fig. 313). Indeed, this manner of representation can be traced 






















j 


















































PARIAG: 


20900 2027099 


410 Artemis and the Oak 


of the goddess, and so settled at Miletos!. We need not attach 


back to the first or second century B.C. ; for it occurs on an Ephesian amulet of terra cotta 
in the Museum at Syracuse (L. Stephani ‘ Ueber ein Ephesisches Amulett’ in the /é/anges 
gréco-romains tirés du Bulletin historico-philologique de l Académie Impériale des Sciences 
de St.-Pétersbourg St.-Pétersbourg 1855 i. 1—5 with pl.=my fig. 314. The inscription, 
plausibly described by Stephani as E¢éov.a ypdumara (collected by C. Wessely Zphesia 
Grammata aus Papyrusrollen, Inschriften, Gemmen etc. Wien 1886 pp. 1—38 and by R. 
Heim ‘Incantamenta magica graeca latina’ in the Jahrb. f. class. Philol. Suppl. 1893 xix. 
525 ff. See also E. Kuhnert in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. v. 2771 ff., Litbker Reallex8 
P- 332), is in part deciphered by C. F. Graefe, who (af. Stephani oc. cit. p. 4 n.*) would 
read the first words as PTEM AOS EPON, ie. “Aprem, pdos iepdy, and the last as 
amapxy. The original, of which this is a blundered copy, appears to have been a hexa- 
meter invocation beginning with "Apreus, Pas lepdy, and ending with some such phrase as 
Aauvapevqe déxou Oeoadké’ (?) drapxnv). Again, the breasts of the goddess were multiplied 
at some date prior to the period 159—133B.c. (B. V. Head Ov the chronological sequence 
of the coins of Ephesus London 1880 p. 63 pl. 4, 11, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Ionia p. 63 
no. 144, D. G. Hogarth of, c7¢. p. 323) to emphasise her nutrient motherhood (cp. Fo/k- 
Lore 1904 xv. 282). I cannot, however, agree with Mr D. G. Hogarth (of. cit. p. 323 ff.) 
that the whole type current in Roman times was descended from that of the ré7va @npav, 
whose curled wings became successively heart-shaped, piriform, oval, circular, and whose 
lions, degraded into meaningless lines, were finally duplicated as attendant stags. 

The cult-statue at Ephesos, attributed to Endoios (c. 550 B.C.), was said to be of ebony 
or, according to one witness, of vine-wood (Plin. az. hist. 16. 213 de simulacro ipso 
deae ambigitur. ceteri ex hebeno esse tradunt, Mucianus ili cos. ex iis, qui proxime viso 
eo scripsere, vitigineum et numquam mutatum septies restituto templo, hanc materiam 
elegisse Endoeon, etc.). But the original Amazonian image, erected @yy@ bm’ edrpéury 
(supra p. 405 n. 3), was probably itself made of oak, which would blacken as the centuries 
passed till it became indistinguishable from ebony. On some statuettes of the type known 
to the Greeks as moAvuacros and to the Romans as mzltimammia (Hieron. zz Paul. ad 
Ephes. prolog. (xxvi. 441 Migne)) the necklace of acorns attains considerable importance 
(e.g. C. Menetreius of. cz¢.? p. 10 pl. on right=my fig. 315 ‘Apud March. Vine. Iusti- 
nianum’). It is even possible that the pendent acorns first suggested the pendent 
breasts. 

' Schol. Kallim. 2. Zeus 77 Nydedbs 6 Kédpov droklay Oéuevos amd ’AOnvay &aBe 
xpnomov éyetpar Edavov TH Apréude awd mayKxdprwv Ev\wv. Kal dy Tore €oprHs Tehoumevns 
TH Apréucde ev TH Xeravy (ore GE Gjwos ’ATTiKAs) amrehOwv etipe Spdv maprodvy Kal Sudpopov 
éxovcav nptnuévoy (jprnuevny cod. M. A. Meineke cj. amnprnuévov) kaprév. kai éx 
tovrov (A. Meineke cj. ravrns) émoinoey dyahya TH Oed, Kal otrw peTw@Knoev (uEeT@KITEY 
cod. E., followed by O. Schneider) év MiAjTw. ard Tot djmou obv Ecxe THY dvouaciay 7 
"Apreuts. 7) Ore TuxTomevww Tav Bpepav averibecay Ta iudria TH’ Apréucdc. The existence of 
a deme Chitone is very questionable (Welcker G7. Gotlerl. i. 575 n. 27, A. Milchhofer 
in Pauly—Wissowa Leal-Enc. iii. 2335). But Artemis bore the title Xirévy (Kallim. 
h. Zeus 77 f., Steph. Byz. s.v. Xurdévy, cp. s.v- “Epuiwv), or Xerwvla (Parmenon of 
Byzantion and Epicharmos frag. 127 Kaibel ap. Steph. Byz. s.v. Xerdvy, cp. Hesych. s.v. 
Ki8wvéa), probably at Athens (Corp. inscr. Adt. ii. 2 no. 778 A, 16 KiTwveia with U. 
Koehler’s n. ad /oc.), certainly at Miletos (Kallim. 2. Avtem. 225 f.) and Syracuse 
(Athen. 62g E): see further T. Schreiber in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 572 f., K. Wernicke 
in Pauly—Wissowa feal-Eic. ii. 1381 f., 1401 f., O. Jessen 2. ili. 2335, Farnell Cts 
of Gk. States ii. 444, 568, Nilsson Gr. Feste p. 242 f., Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 369 n. 2, 
1272 n. 7, £295 n. 1. The epithet Xirévn, Xtrwvia, popularly derived from xurwv, was in 
all likelihood a pre-Greek appellative. I incline to suspect that the word thus Grecised 
meant originally ‘ the Hittite’ (cp. the forms Ahattz, Aheta, Heth, etc.: H. R. Hall The 
Anetent History of the Near East London 1913 p. 327). Be that as it may, the scholiast 
on Kallimachos does not definitely state whether the oak hung with fruitage was growing 


Artemis and the Oak “Ria 


much weight to Ovid’s description of the Colchian Diana as a 
golden three-faced goddess, whose marble temple had ‘a grove 
black with pitch-pines and leaves of the evergreen oak? But in 
Thrace Artemis was certainly conceived as a vegetation-deity. 
Tetradrachms of Abdera, struck c. 400—390 B.C., show her standing 
in profile with a stag at her side, a bow and arrow in her left 
hand, and a wreath (fig. 316)? or branch’ in her right, or else facing 





us on a pedestal with stag, bow, and branch (fig. 317)4 Bendis, 
a Thracian form of the goddess’, seems to have been specially asso- 
ciated with the oak-tree. A. Wilhelm® in 1902 drew attention to a 
stéle in the Peiraieus Museum, on which are inscribed two resolutions 
touching her cult. The first directs that Olympos, son of Olympio- 
doros, for his official services to her sanctuary and orgeénes be 


in Attike or in Ionia. Perhaps we may assume that it marked the site of the new settle- 
ment. If so, the foundation-legend of Miletos resembled that of Ephesos (swpva p. 405). 

* Ov. her. 12. 67 ff., on which see P. Wagler Die Eiche in alter und neuer Zeit Berlin 
-1891 ii. 15 n. 43. 

2 Ant. Miinz. Nord-Griechenlands ii. 1. 1. 83 pl. 3, 8 (=my fig. 316), Ant. Mainz. 
Berlin Taurische Chersonesus, etc. i. 105 no. 63 pl. 4, 34- 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins The Tauric Chersonese, etc. p. 231 no. 52 6 fig., 
J. N. Svoronos in the ’E@. ’Apy. 1889 p. 101 pl. 2, 23. Cp. the type of Diana Nemo- 
rensis (?) on Italian gems (supra i. 274 fig. 199). 

4 Ant. Miinz. Nord-Griechenlands ii. 1. 1. 83 no. 136 fig. (=my fig. 317) Berlin. 

5 Supra p. 115. 

8 A. Wilhelm in the Jahresh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1902 v. 133 (publication by J. 
Dragatsis promised). 

In an inscription from Thessalonike a priestess of Ipuvopépos, the ‘ Bearer of the Ever- 
green Oak,’ who speaks of herself as Oca and eveia, leaves certain vineyards to her diagos, 
the mpivopdpa : if the conditions of the bequest are not fulfilled, the property is to go to 
another @lagos, that of the dporopdpo or ‘oak-bearers’ (P. Perdrizet in the Bzl/, Corr. Hell. 
1900 xxiv. 321 ff. B idpea Oioa | evela Ipivo|pdpov xara\Alrw els pvilas xdpw alw|ylas 
avrédwy | whéOpa Siw | adv res Tadpots | dws amroP|[épwlvrac aluol | — — — and C kai of 
hvate | wixpds pélyas exacros | orépavoy pdjdwov. 6 dé wh élvévxas uy pere|xérw pou 77s | 
Owpeds. alay | dé uh Tojowlow, elve atta | Tod Sporopd|pwv Aeaoouv él[rt rots avrois. 
Perdrizet adds: ‘ Pour le chéne-vert, c’est un arbre fort répandu dans la Macédoine 
orientale ; le Pangée lui doit son nom actuel (Pournar-dag).’ See further the Class. Rev. 
1904 xviii. 82 n. 1, where I have cited the copper coins of Thessalonike with a wreath of 
oak-leaves enclosing the word OEZTSAAONIKEQN or OECCAAONIKEWN 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Macedonia, Etc. pp. 108, 113). 


ArZ Artemis and the Oak 


honoured with a wreath of oak?. The second, proposed by Sosias, 
son of Hippokrates, on Skirophorion 8 in the archonship of Lykeas, 
ordains that Eukleides, son of Antimachos, for his services as 
secretary receive the oak-wreath. Wilhelm infers that this was the 
national wreath of the goddess. Was it accident or design that 
combined the obverse Artemis with the reverse oak-wreath on the 
shield-like tetradrachms issued in Makedonia from 158 to 149 B.C.?? 
A silver coin of the Acarnanian League, referable to the year 192— 
191 B.C., shows a torch-bearing Artemis in a wreath of oak (fig. 318)*. 
And literary allusions tell the same tale. An Orphic hymn to 
Artemis invokes her as ‘haunting the oak-woods of the mountains’ 
and again as ‘goddess of oak-woods*’ Aristophanes similarly 
describes her as ‘the Maid that ranges the oak-clad hills®’ And 
Statius not only makes Atalante dedicate a choice oak to her in 
Arkadia®, but also speaks of her effigy as carved on ‘ pitch-pine and 
cedar and every oak-tree’ of her grove near Thebes’. 

The goddess was perhaps even identified with her own tree. 
The Saronic Gulf, according to Pliny, was formerly fringed with 
forests of oak and drew its name from the fact’. On its shore, near 


1 Spuds orepavan. 

2 Ant. Miinz. Nord-Griechenlands iii. 53 ff. nos. 156 ff., 189 ff. pl. 2, 2—4, 10—13, 
Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Macedonia, Etc. p. 7 fig., p. 8 fig., Head Coins of the Ancients 
p- 96 pl. 54, 10, 11, 12, Hunter Cat. Coins i. 354 pl. 24, 12. For the history of 
these issues see H. Gaebler ‘Zur Miinzkunde Makedoniensiii’ in the Zedtschr. f. Num. 
1899 xxii. 141 ff., G. F. Hill Aéstorical Greek Coins London 1906 p. 148 ff. pl. 12, 87 f., 
Head Ast. num.” p. 238 f. fig. 151 f. 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Cotns Thessaly, etc. p. 169 pl. 27, 5, Head Cons of the Ancients 
p- 97 pl. 55, 20, id. Hist. num.” p. 333 f. Fig. 318 is drawn from an electrotype of the 
specimen in the British Museum. 

4 Orph. 2. Artem. 36. 10 7 karéxets d6péwv Spupovs, 12 dpumovin. 

5 Aristoph. Zhesm. 114 f. trav 7’ év Spec Spvoydvocr | Kbpav deloar’”"Apreuw d-yporépar. 

6 Stat. Zheb. g. 585 ff. nota per Arcadias felici robore silvas | quercus erat, Triviae 
quam desacraverat ipsa | electam turba nemorum numenque colendo | fecerat : hic arcus 
et fessa reponere tela, | armaque curva suum et vacuorum terga leonum | figere et ingentes 
aequantia cornua silvas. | vix ramis locus, agrestes adeo omnia cingunt | exuviae, et 
viridem ferri nitor impedit umbram. etc. (608 virgo potens nemorum, 627 nemoralis 
Delia). In 591 C. von Barth cj. vix vadizs locus. But Statius may have been thinking of 
the Italian Diana-trunks (sepra p. 143 ff.). 

7 Stat. Theb. 4. 425 ff. nec caret umbra deo: nemori Latonia cultrix | additur; hanc 
picea cedroque (so O. Miiller for fzceae cedrigue vulg.) et robore in omni j effictam 
sanctis occultat silva tenebris. Mr E. Harrison in the Cambridge University Reporter 
Feb. 21, 1911 p. 663 comments: ‘As things stand, we read that in a forest sacred to 
Diana the image of the goddess was carved on every tree of three several kinds. If the poet 
is worth relieving of a folly, we had better read zz wnam or in unum for in omni, sup- 
posing a triple £oavor of the triune goddess (cf. Pausanias ii. 30. 2). Yet see what this poet 
does at x. 100,’ 

8 Plin. zat. hist. 4. 18 sinus Saronicus, olim querno nemore redimitus, unde nomen, ita 
Graecia antiqua appellante quercum. 


Artemis and the Oak 413 


Troizen, stood a sanctuary of Artemis Savonzs, whose cult-epithet 
can be taken to mean ‘the Gnarled Oak". If so, the implication is 
that some ancient trunk was viewed as her very embodiment?. 
Tradition said that the cult had been founded by a woodland king, 
Saron the hunter, who met his death by pursuing a doe? or a boar* 
into the sea and lay buried in the precinct of his goddess®. Saron, 
we may suppose*, stood to Artemis Saronzs’ in much the same 


1 Schol. Kallim. 2. Zeus 22 capwvidas: dpts* mapa ro cecnpota kal cvveorpaupmévoy Tov 
gprorov éxew, Hesych. s.v. capwrides* wérpar. 7 ai dud madaiornTra Kexnvutar Spves (cp. zd. 
5.vv. copwris* Narn radaid and cwpwris* earn. Kalmods. M. Schmidt remarks : ‘ copwvis 
Dorismus est Melius pro capwvis.’ See now K. Brugmann—A. Thumb Griechische Gram- 
matik* Miinchen 1913 p. 84), e¢. gez. in E. Miller A@élanges de littérature grecque Paris 
1868 p. 264 capwris kal 7 Spds dia 7d ceonpévac’ 7) copovis (leg. copwyis) dia 7d €& avTay 
sopovs yiverOar, et. Gud. p. 496, 32 f. capwris, H Opus, dia 7d cecerpévan (leg. ceonpévat)* 7 
cwpwris (leg. copwris) did To €& adr&v owpods (les. copods) yiverOat, et. may. p. 709, 5 Kal 
capwvides, ai kothae Spves (=Favorin. /ex. p. 1636, 34). The word occurs in an elegiac 
fragment published by B. P. Grenfell—A. S. Hunt in Zhe Oxyrhynchus Papyri London 
1898 i. 37 f. no. 14, 10 Jo capwridas ovdas eve[, Kallim. 2. Zeas 22 f. 7 woddas eptrepe 
capwrldas vypds “lawv | jepev, Parthen. zarr. am. 11. 4 (=foes. frag. 29, 4 ff.) Kat pa 
Kata oTupe)oto capwvidos adtixa ulrpny | awamévyn Secpiy éeveOnkaro (sc. 7 BuBNis). 

2 Cp. Demeter X67, Dionysos Borpus, Dionysos Kiocos. But the direct identification 
of deity with plant-form in a cult-title was rare. Overbeck Gr. Awnstmyth. Zeus p. 4 
rashly assumes a Zeus ®yyds on the strength of Steph. Byz. s.v. Awduvn...cal rip 
altiarixny pnow Hidopiwy Awddva év’ Aviw: ‘ikopev és Awddva Ads Pryoto rpopArw.’ 

3 Paus. 2. 30. 7 \adov dudxovra (the words brd rév kuuarwv KaTrak\ufouevoy imply a 
derivation of Zapwr from capdw, cp. Lyk. A/. 389 with Tzetz. ad loc. =et. mag. p. 708, 
56 ff.), schol. Eur. App. 1200 dudxwv €\agov. We need not with S. Wide (De sacris- 
Troezentorum, Hermionenstum, Epidauriorum Commentatio academica Upsaliae 1888 
p- 26 f., cp. 7d. Lakon. Kulte p. 125 n. 3 and in the Festschrift fiir Otlo Benndorf Wien 
1898 p. 14 ff.) and M. P. Nilsson (Gr. Feste p. 226 f.} assume that the doe was Artemis 
herself in animal shape, still less with O. Keller (7hzere des classischen Alterthums in 
culturgeschichtlicher Beziehung Innsbruck 1887 p. 97, cp. 2d. Die antike Tierwelt Leipzig 
1909 i. 277) take it to be a symbol of the starry midnight sky. After all, ordinary deer 
can swim well and take readily to the water (see e.g. R. Lydekker Zhe Royal Natural 
History London 1894 ii. 347, 354, 2d. Wiid Life of the World London s.a. i. 28). There 
is a good parallel in Paus. 8. 22. 9. 

+ Euphorion af. schol. Dionys. fer. 420 (cp. e¢. mag. p. 708, 51 ff.) and Eustath. 2 
Dionys. fer. 420 émidudxwv civ. This too is a possible occurrence (R. Lydekker Weld 
Life of the World London s.a. i. 34). 5 Paus. 2:.30. 7. 

§ So at least I have argued in the Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 370, cp. O. Hofer in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. i. 389. 

7 Artemis Dapwris (Paus. 2. 30. 7) was also called Zapwvia at Troizen (Paus. 2. 32. Io, 
cp. Achaios Theseus frag. 18 Nauck? ap. Hesych. s.v. Zapwria “Apreuus* “Axatds Onoe?: 
dard r00 év Tporeqve Dapwrikod Kb\rrov= Phot. ex. s.v. Vapwvia) and Epidauros (P. Kabbadias 
Fouilles a’ Epidaure Athénes 1893 i. 51f. no. 85=Znscr. Gr. Pelop. ino. 1083 a stéle of 
5. iii(?) B.c. "Apiorel|das ’Apio|roxpd|reus | dis mupo|popjoas | 7()c ’Ac|kNameae | ’Apréue|re 
Lapw|viac | avéOnxe, Foutlles d’ Epidaure i. 57 no. 128=Inscr. Gr. Pelop. i no. 1198 a 
rectangular block inscribed in archaistic lettering of s. iv A.D. or later ’Apré|| eros | Zapw- 
vias with a numeral £8’ below and a circle, perhaps meant for a wreath, in the middle of 
the name ’Apréuros: on this symbol see further C. Blinkenberg in the Ath. AZitth. 1899 
xxiv. 381, 383 and M. Frankel in the /wscr. Gr. Pelop. i. 187, infra Append. L zit.). 
Her festival the Zapwvia (Paus. 2. 32. 10) is discussed by Nilsson Gr. Fesée p. 226 f. 


AI4 Artemis and the Oak 


relationship as Virbius to Diana Nemorensis!. Unfortunately, little 
or nothing is known about the early kings of Troizen?. It is, 
however, noteworthy that the later Troezenian hero Hippolytos to 
some extent repeated the career of Saron. He too was a hunter, was 
intimate with Artemis, had the entrée of her dbaton*, and died a 
violent death on the margin of the sea. He is not indeed linked by 


The existence of the alternative title Zapwvia at first sight tells against my interpreta- 
tion of Dapwvris ; for Dapwris and Lapwvia may both be derivatives of Zdpwy, a place-name 
(Steph. Byz. s.v. Zdpwy * rézos TporfFvos) or river-name (Eustath. 2 Dionys. fer. 420 7 amd 
Lapwvos morauod Tporgjvos, whence L. Holstein cj. roraués for rémos in Steph. Byz. /oc. 
cit.). But these names themselves in all probability connoted oaks, cp. Paus. 8. 23. 8 émi 
dpuuov adit Zdpwva (C. Bursian Geographie von Griechenland Leipzig 1868—1872 ii. 263 
n. 2 ‘Zdpwy ist wahrscheinlich arkadische Form fiir Zdpwr,’ L. Grasberger Studien zu den 
griechischen Ortsnamen Wiirzburg 1888 p. 259), so that on this showing Lapwris, Dapwvia 
would be ‘ She of the Oak-land,’ ‘ She of the Oak-river.’ : 

There is yet another possibility. Starting from Hesych. s.v. capSves* ta T&v Onpataev 
Awa W. Pape—G. E. Benseler Worterbuch der griechischen Eigennamen*® Braunschweig 
1875 il. 1349 render Zdpwy ‘ Netzold, Netze’—a view adopted by Preller—Robert G7. 
Myth. i. 613, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 192 (but see zd. p. 1281 n. 4), Nilsson Gr. Feste 
p- 227, O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 388 (but see 7b. p. 389). Artemis Zapwvis, 
Lapwria would then be a kind of Alkrwva. But it is far from certain that Alkruvyya was 
originally connected with dlkrvoy (supra i. 541 n. 6); and the Hesychian gloss may rest 
on a confusion (cp. Hesych. s.v. cdpdoves* év kuvnyerix@ wépyn Tia OixTUwy SnrovvTat. The 
reference is to Xen. cyneg. 6.9. Hence L. Dindorf restored capdéves to Hesych. and 
capddvwy to Xen. In Poll. 5. 31 G. Jungermann notes the manuscript reading capddves 
for capdéves. A. Fickin the Gétt. gel. Anz. 1894 p. 245 relates capdwy to céonpa; but 
.see Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 853). 

1 Saron, like Virbius (szfra p. 393 f.), came to be deemed an aquatic divinity (Aristeid. 
or. 46. 208 (ii. 274 Dindorf) ov6’ wa tov rdvta xpbvov Thy OddarTav olkBow, Gorep TOV 
Tratxov pact tov’ AvOnddvior, 7) Tov Tdpwva Toy émrwvupov Tod weddyous with schol. Aristeid. 
p- 639, 1 ff. Dindorf xara kowot 7d dalwovd pyor yiverOat vavrixdratov. k.7-r., Apostol. 15. 
34 Ddpwvos vauricwrepos* obros 6 Ldpwy daiuwy jv vavTikwraros. K.T.A.), being worshipped 
on the western side of the Bosporos in the bay called Bathykolpos, the modern Boyuwkdere 
(Dionys. Byz. per Bosporum navigatio frag. 71 versionis Gillianae (p. 26 Wescher) ‘ Fluvius 
in sinum exit, cui idem quod sinui nomen est. Hic exsistit Savonzs herois Megarici ara, 
et jactus piscium,’ etc.), and presumably also at Megara (F. Pfister Dee mythische Konigs- 
liste von Megara und thr Verhdlinis zum Kult und zur topographischen Bezetchnung 
Heidelberg 1907 p. 41=zd. Der Religuienkult im Altertum Giessen 1909 i. 41). On him 
see further the excellent article of O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iv. 387—389. 

2 The locus classicus is Paus. 2. 30. 5—8, where we are told that the succession was 
(1) “Qpos, (2) “ANOn7os, son of Poseidon by Ants daughter of *“Qpos, (3) Zdpwr, (4) after an 
interval of forgotten names ‘Trépys and “Av@as, sons of Poseidon by Alkyone daughter of 
Atlas, (5) ’Aérvos, son of “Av@as, in whose reign Troizen and Pittheus, the scns of Pelops, 
entered the country. F. Pfister Der Religuienkult im Altertum Giessen 1909 i. 50 ft. 
(‘Die mythische KGnigsliste von Troizen’) contends that the names Horos (séc), Leis, 
Althepos, Anthas, Hyperes all refer to the fertility of the Troezenian land. Here it is ad 
vem to observe that Anthas is comparable with Anthos of Arkadia, whose descendants 
hung their clothes on an oak-tree before swimming across a pool to become were-wolves 
(supra i. 71 ff.), and that the Arcadian Anthos was perhaps, like Anthos the son of 
Autonoos and Hippodameia, destroyed by horses—a fate which would connect him with 
Hippolytos (supra i. 75). 

3 Eur. Aipp. 70 ff. 


Artemis and the Oak 415 


legend with a sacred oak. But it is possible that here, as elsewhere’, 
the oak had given place to the olive. In Pausanias’ time a certain 





Fig. 319. Fig. 320. Fig. 321. 


wild-olive, growing near the sanctuary and known as the Writhen 
Olive, was held to be the tree in which Hippolytos’ reins had got 


s+ & goo 


De Pite fe 


|S 


é 
i 


an 


Wer 





Fig. 322. 
entangled?. Ovid and Seneca speak of it as a mere stump: the 


1 Class. Rev. 1903 xvii. 273, 2b. 1904 xviii. 82 n. 2, Folk-Lore 1904 xv. 298, 

2 Paus. 2. 32. 10 éml Oddaccay dé Thy Vidalay (Wnpalay codd. Angelicus and Ric- 
cardianus, the latter with « over 7,—followed by Schubart and Walz. Siebelis cj. bo:Balay) 
Topevouevors KdTiWos TépuKev dvomatduevos paxos oTpeTTOs. pPaxous wéev OH Kadovdar Tporgjrioe 
wav bcov dkaprov éaias, Kbrwov Kal pudlay Kal é\acov: atpemTov dé errovoudtovat TodTor, 
bre evoxeferoav alte T&v Huiav averparn Tob ‘ImmodtTov 7d apua. TovTou dé ob moAd THs 
Lapwvrias Apréudos apéornke 7d iepdv, x.r.’. Of the paxo here mentioned the gua at 
least was 6uo.ov mpivw (Hesych. s.v. pudetns). 


416 Artemis and the Oak 


former describes how the hero’s sinews were caught on it! ; the latter 
makes him fairly impaled by it®. Coppers of Troizen, struck by 
Septimius Severus (fig. 319)’ and Iulia Domna (fig. 320)4, show the 
citadel crowned by a distyle temple and flanked by a couple of 




















Fig: 323- 


trees, apparently olive and cypress. Another copper of the same 
town, issued by Commodus (fig. 321)°, represents Hippolytos, with 
hunting-spear and hound, leaning on a knotted tree-stump. An 
Apulian kratér from Ruvo, now in the British Museum (fig. 322), 


1 Ov. met. 15. 520 ih 2 Sen. Phaedr. 1107 f. 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus p. 167 pl. 31, 8 (=my fig. 319), Imhoof-Blumer 
and P. Gardner Mum. Comm. Paus.i. 47 pl. M, 4. The temple is that of Athena Sthenias 
(Paus. 2. 30. 6, 2. 32. 5: see further O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 1532 f.). 

4 Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 156 pl. 39, 14 (=my fig. 320), Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. 
Suppl. iv. 271 no. 208, Imhoof-Blumer and P. Gardner Vum. Comm. Paus. i. 47. 

°C. R. Fox Engravings of unedited or rare Greek Coins London 1856 i. 25 no. 100 
pl. 9 (=my fig. 321), W. M. Leake Mumismata Hellenica London 1856 European Greece 
p- 165 Add. (electrotype), Imhoof-Blumer and P. Gardner Mum. Comm. Paus. 1. 48 
pl. M, 8. 

6 Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases iv. 136 ff. no. F 279, T. Panofka in the Arch. Zeit. 1848 ii. 
245f., A. Kalkmann 70. 1883 xli. 43 ff. pl. 6=Reinach Rép. Vases i. 446, Overbeck Gr. 


Diana’s tree at Nemi 417 


introduces the fatal trunk into the death-scene. The tree thus con- 
nected with Hippolytos by literature and art very possibly pre- 
supposes the sacred oak of Artemis. In any case Hippolytos and 
Artemis Saronés must have borne an obvious resemblance to 
Virbius and Diana Memorensis ; for Virgil and later writers told 
how Hippolytos, restored by Asklepios at Artemis’ request, lived 
again as Virbius in Diana’s grove at-Nemi'. His tragic death and 
triumphant resurrection made him a favourite theme alike on Greek 
and on Roman sarcophag?” (fig. 323). 


(y) Diana’s tree at Nemi. 


It is clear, then, that Diana in Italy and Artemis in Greece were 
often conceived as oak-goddesses. But have we any special reason to 
think that Diana’s tree at Nemi was an oak? Sir James Frazer, as is 
well known, has conjectured that such was the case and has immor- 
talised his opinion in that amazing monument of helpful research, 
The Golden Bough'. Nevertheless, with regard to this particular 
point, his argument admittedly rests on probabilities, not proofs’, 


Kunstmyth. Apollon pp. 327 no. 57, 330 Atlas pl. 22, 3 (Apollon only), J. H. Huddilston 
Greek Tragedy in the light of Vase Paintings London 1898 pp. 1o8—112 fig. 15. My 
fig. 322 is after Kalkmann Joc. cit. 

1 Supra p. 399 n. 5. See also S. Eitrem in Baily — Wisma Real-Enc. viii. 1866. 

2 Robert Sark.-Relfs iii. 169—219 pls. 44—56 and figs. in text. 

3 In the death of Hippolytos as carved on one of the smaller sides of a fine Greek 
sarcophagus at the Petrograd Hermitage (H. Brunn in the Anz. d. Just. 1857 xxix. 36 ff., 
Mon. d. Inst. vi pl. 2=my fig. 323, Robert of. czt. iii. 182 ff. pl. 47—48 fig. 154 a) the 
sculptor has apparently adapted the type of Phaethon’s overthrow (Robert of. cz¢. 111. 170). 
He adds a background etc. of oaks and olives. 

4 Frazer Golden Bough*: The Magic Art ii. 379, aid. 

> Apart from the general association of the oak with the Aryan thunder-god (Goldex 
Bough*; The Magic Art ii. 356ff.), Sir James Frazer urges the following special con- 
siderations: (1) Diana at Nemi was called Vesta (Corp. zuscr. Lat. xiv no. 2213 =Orelli 
Inscr. Lat. sel. no. 1455=Wilmanns £x. inscr. Lat. no. 1767 =Dessau Jnscr. Lat. sel. 
no. 3243 Dianae | Nemoresi Vestae | sacrum, etc.) and presumably had a perpetual fire 
in her sanctuary. The Vestal fire at Rome was fed with oak-wood (Golden Bough* ; The 
Magic Art ii. 185 f., 372, 378). Latin ritual is so uniform that we may assume a like 
custom at Nemi: hence ‘it becomes probable that the hallowed grove there consisted of 
a natural oak-wood, and that therefore the tree which the King of the Wood had to guard 
at the peril of his life was itself an oak’ (Golden Bough*: The Magic Art il. 379). (2) Verg. 
Aen. 6. 203 ff., cp. 26. 136 ff., speaks of the golden bough as growing on an evergreen oak 
(opaca | tlice) near Lake Avernus (Golden Bough*: The Magic Art ii. 379, 26.3: Balder 
the Beautiful ii. 284 f., 315). Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 6. 136 quotes as a popular belief 
( publica...opinio) the view ‘that the Golden Bough was the branch which a candidate 
for the priesthood of Diana had to pluck in the sacred grove of Nemi’ (Golden Bough* : 
Balder the Beautiful ii. 284 n. 3). (3) Verg. den. 6. 772 represents the old Alban dynasty 
of the Silvii as crowned with oak (czw7li...guercu) (Golden Bough*®: The Magic Art ii. 
178 ff., 379). ‘It is not impossible that the King of the Wood...was the lawful successor 
...of this ancient line’ (74. p. 379). (4) The double-headed bust at Nemi, which probably 
portrays the old King of the Wood and his younger rival, shows both of them plastered 


ci: 27 


418 Diana’s tree at Nemi 


and I was formerly disposed to question its validity. I still 
hold that the evidence is incomplete; but I believe that I am in a 
position to strengthen it by sundry fresh facts of local significance. 

Some years ago in looking through an old book on the Campagna 
I came across an etching of the Lake at Nemi, published in 1805 
(fig. 324). The accompanying text by Miss Ellis Cornelia Knight’, 



































Fig. 32,4. 


who lived in Italy from 1776 to 1799, describes the lake-side and 
incidentally remarks : 


‘There is a tree which tradition reports to be near two thousand years old, 
but some of the inhabitants content themselves with saying, that it was planted 
by Augustus ; its spreading branches hang over the lake, and produce a noble 
effect.’ 


It occurred to me at once that the tree in question might be the 
successor of the tree guarded by the vex Nemorensis, the obscure 


with oak-leaves (Golden Bough*: The Magic Art i. 41f.). (5) Egeria, perhaps a local 
form of Diana (Golden Bough*®: The Magic Art i. 171 ff., 267, 380), was described as an 
oak-nymph (zd. il. 172, 267, 380). Val. Max. 1. 2. 1 speaks of her as dea Aegeria, which 
may mean ‘the Oak Goddess’ (24. i, 22 n. 5, ii. 172 n. 3). 

1 Class. Rev. 1902 Xvi. 371, 374, 378n. 4 (but see 2d. 1904 xviii. 369f.), Holk-Lore 
1906 xvii. 445 f. 

2 Description of Latium; or, La Campagna di Roma London 1805 p. 85f. pl. 6 
(=my fig. 324). 

3 My friend Prof. R. C. Bosanquet informed me that the anonymous author of the 
Description of Latium was Miss E. C. Knight, on whom see Dr R. Garnett’s article in 
the Dictionary of National Biography ed. by S. Lee London 1892 xxxi. 249 f. 


Diana’s tree at Nemi 419 


woodland king having been replaced in popular memory by the 
famous emperor'. Anxious therefore to ascertain the species of the 
tree, I asked my former pupil Miss E. M. Douglas (Mrs Van Buren) 
to go over from Rome to Nemi and question the peasants on the 
spot. Miss Douglas kindly consented to do so, and on Sept. 13, 1912 
reported that they knew nothing about it, having—she said—‘ just 
enough modern ideas to hold everything old in detestation.’ But a 
week later a postcard from her drew my attention to the following 
passage in G. Tomassetti’s great work on the Campagna: 


‘Among the scattered memories of this country I must record that of the 
gigantic oak-tree, which grew on the banks of the Lake and was said to have 
been planted by no less a person than Augustus (Kircher V. Zaz. p. 50) ; it was 
capable of containing twenty-five people in the hollow of its trunk, and it is said 
that the women of Genzano caused it to wither because they used to boil the water 
for the washing in it (Ratti p. 87, who saw it cut down)?.’ 


A. Kircher, whose Latiwm appeared at Amsterdam in 1671, duly 
mentions that the big tree below Genzano could house a family of 
twenty-five in its hollow trunk and was believed to have been 
planted by Caesar Augustus*, N. Ratti’s Storia di Genzano | failed 
to find at Cambridge, and there is no copy in the British Museum. 


So I induced my old colleague Prof. P. J. Harding, when next 


he visited Rome, to take up the quest. Four months afterwards he 
ran down the book in the Biblioteca Vittorio Emanuele and on 
Jan. 16, 1913 sent me an extract, showing that Ratti, whose Szorza 
is dated 1797, had seen the tree lying on the ground and was 
prepared to support Kircher’s estimate of its size. It would seem, 


1 Tt is perhaps noteworthy that one of the chief festivals of modern Nemi is the 
Esposizione della Croce on Sept. 24, a day which was celebrated in antiquity as Augustus’ 
birthday (Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rim. pp. 446, 587)- 

2 G. Tomassetti La Campagna Romana Roma gto il. 257 ‘Tra le memorie scomparse 
di questa terra deve ricordarsi il gigantesco albero di quercia esistito sul versante del lago, 
che dicevasi piantato nientemeno che da Augusto (KIRCHER, V. Lat., pag. 50), capace di 
contenere nel vuoto del tronco 25 persone; e si dice che le donne Genzanesi lo abbiano 
fatto inaridire, perché vi facevano all’ interno bollire la lisciva del bucato (RATTI, p. 87, 
che I’ ha veduto recidere).’ 

3 A. Kircher Latium Amstelodami 1671 p. 50 ‘E regione emoris diametraliter 
opposita Cynthianum, vulgo Genzano situm est, de quo supra: nobile & dives oppidum 
Cesarini Ducis jurisdictioni subjacet; infra quod ad ipsum Zacwm arborem vidi tantz 
magnitudinis, ut integra familia 25 personarum facile concavitatem inhabitare queat. 
Incolz certo sibi persuasum habent, arborem hanc ad Cesare Augusto inibi plantatam, 
successu temporis in tantam molem excrevisse. Sed sinamus indigenis plus zequo credulis 
plebejam hanc persuasionem.’ 

4 Nicola Ratti Storia di Genzano con note e documenti Roma 1797 p. 87 n. (1) ‘Quest’ 
albero per la sua mole portentoso si é mantenuto in piedi sino a nostri giorni, e sussiste- 
rebbe tuttora, se la biasmevole costumanza delle donne Genzanesi di far bollire a fuoco 
vivissimo la caldaja del loro bucato entro la cavita del tronco, che loro serviva di commoda 


27-—2 


420 Diana’s tree at Nem 


then, that the great trunk was felled some time between 1776, when 
Miss Knight went to Italy, and 1797, when Ratti brought out his 
account of Genzano. Its identification as an oak rests on the state- 
ment of Tomassetti. If that is reliable, then Sir James Frazer’s 
surmise concerning Diana’s tree receives at least a supplementary 


prop’. 

We need not, therefore, scruple to admit that Virbius was repre- 
sented as a Janiform herm covered with oak-leaves just because he 
was the consort of Diana. How long he persisted in folk-memory 
and how widely he was recognised, our meagre records do not permit 
us to determine. As to the former question, C. G. Leland in 1892 
published a curious tale current among the Romagnoli of northern 
Italy, in which we can readily detect a moralising reminiscence of 
Diana, Virbius, and his successful rival*. As to the latter question, 


stanza, a poco a poco non ne avesse seccato le radici, e |’ albero stesso, per il che anni 
indietro bisognd venirne al taglio. Noi lo abbiamo veduto dopo reciso, e possiamo 
assicurare, che |’ assertiva del Kircher riguardo alla straordinaria di lui grandezza non e 
punto esaggerata. Un albero di questa natura non poteva essere, che di un eta vecchissima, 
e quando non voglia credersi coevo di Cesare Augusto almeno non gli si potran negare 
molti secoli di vita.’ 

1 If it be objected that Genzano is on the opposite side of the Lake to Nemi, we must 
bear in mind the constant tendency of the early population to move down from the moun- 
tain towards the sea (G. Tomassetti La Campagna Romana Roma 1910 ii. 263f.). As 
Diana’s temple at Nemi was duplicated by Diana’s temple at Aricia (zd. 70.), so ex 
hypothest the oak at Nemi was duplicated by the oak at Genzano. 

Two other possibilities are worth weighing. (1) Quite conceivably the sacred tree of 
Diana Nemorensis was an apple-tree. I have erenow been half-inclined to maintain that 
view: see Folk-Lore 1906 xvii. 445 f., supra i. 274f. And further reasons for adopting it 
could be adduced. In 1744 the site of the precinct at Nemi was occupied by the fomario 
of P. Frangipani (Tomassetti of. cé¢. ii. 264). Miss Douglas writes to me (Sept. 13, 1912) : 
‘There are a good number of apple trees on the slopes of the lake, some of them fairly 
large.’ Also it is a well-known fact that mistletoe very commonly grows on an apple-tree. 
(2) Again, something might be said for the conjecture that Diana’s tree was a beech. She 
was certainly a beech-goddess in the near neighbourhood (supra p. 402 f. and especially 
p- 403 n. 1). And the whole district is called La Fazo/a (= La Faggiuola) from its beeches 
(L. Morpurgo in the Mon. d. Linc. 1903 xiii. 297 n. 1). 

2 Supra p. 400. 

3 C. G. Leland Etruscan Roman Remains in Popular Tradition London 1892 p. 124 f. 
‘‘ Verbio was a beautiful youth, as good as he was beautiful, and he loved with all his heart 
a maid who seemed to return his love. ‘‘ But she soon was tempted, | Tempted by an- 
other | Youth of greater beauty, | Which was like enchantment; | Yet he was a stranger, | 
And he had no story, | For this handsome stranger, | Verbio was slighted. ‘‘ Then Verbio 
fell ill in despair, and seemed to be dying, and the girl learning this repented, and in grief 
said to her new lover: ‘I have done wrong, and I now see that Verbio loved me truly as 
thou dost not and no one can.’ Then her lover gazed at her and she saw he was not a 
man but a devil. And he said :—‘‘‘See what thou hast done, | See how thou art wicked, | 
Leaving one who loved thee | With all soul sincerely ! | Yet for me you left him, | Yes, 
for me, a devil; | Now you both are lost, | For thou’st truly promised | To be mine for 
ever, | As thou holdest Verbio. | But if you will sign | With your blood a contract | To 
be mine, I’ll grant ye | Many, many years | Of happiness together.’ ‘‘ Now Verbio did 


Diana’s tree at Nemi 421 


a priest of Virbius is mentioned in an inscription at Naples!, and 
there was a Clivus Virbius in the immediate vicinity of an ancient 
Dianium at Rome?. Servius’ statement that Diana was transferred 
from Aricia to Sparta* leads me to suggest that at a comparatively 
late date Virbius, the associate of Diana Memorenszs, was attached 
to Artemis Orthéa also. Vibius Sequester actually gives Virbius as 
the name of a Laconian river’. And Pausanias says that the image 
of Artemis Ort#éa was found by Astrabakos and Alopekos the sons 
of Irbos. He adds that Irbos was the son of Amphisthenes, son of 
Amphikles, son of Agis®. I suspect that /véos is a late Grecised form 
of Vzrbzus ; and in his forbears Amphzsthenes and Amphzkles I find 
a hint of his Janiform nature’. The connexion of Virbius with 
Artemis Ortiza would be doubly appropriate if, as is. certainly 
possible, the Greek Orthéa was the older phonetic equivalent of the 
Latin Vzrbzus’, both names being akin to the word avbor*. On this 


not believe in the power of devils, and was only too glad to get his love again, and so 
signed the contract, as she did also. And they lived happily indeed for many years; but 
years must end, and so it came to pass that when the time of the contract expired both 
died at once. And all at once there was an awful storm over all the land, the heavens 
grew dark by day, and horrible fires flashed out of the darkness, and amid the storm was 
heard a voice which sang :—‘‘ ‘ Women, learn to love | One true love, and truly; | When 
you’re truly loved | Be warned by my example! | Now I pay the fee | For my fatal false- 
hood.’ ‘‘And since that time the two have gone about as spirits knowing no rest.” 

Leland has been accused of inaccuracy—a charge which he hotly rebuts (of. cz¢. p. 13 ff.). 
He was no doubt an erratic genius, and there is a good deal of chaff mixed with his grain. 
But he certainly meant his tales from La Romagna Toscana as a serious contribution to 
folk-lore : see his letters to Mrs Pennell written from Florence in 1890—18g1 and printed 
by E. R. Pennell Charles Godfrey Leland London 1906 ii. 339 ff. 

1 Corp. inscr. Lat. x no. 1493, 6= Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 6457, 6 flamini Virbiali. 
See further Frazer Golden Bough?: The Magic Art i. 20 n. 3. 

2 Supra p. 400 f. See further Class. Rev. 1902 xvi. 380 n. 3. 

3 Serv. iz Verg. Aen. 2. 116 Colchos petierat (sc. Orestes), et cum his occiso Thoante, 
simulacrum sustulit absconditum fasce lignorum: unde et Facelitis dicitur...et Ariciam 
detulit. sed cum postea Romanis sacrorum crudelitas displiceret, quamquam servi immo- 
larentur, ad Laconas est Diana translata, ubi sacrificii consuetudo adulescentum verberibus 
servatur, qui vocabantur Bomonicae, quia aris superpositi contendebant, qui plura posset 
verbera sustinere. fra § 3 (c) i (c). 

4 Supra p. 394 Nn. 2. 

5 Paus. 3. 16. 9 TodTo wey yap ’AorpdBaxos xal’Adwrrexos of “IpBou rod ’Audiobévous 700 
’Auduixdéous Tod "Ayidos TO ayaa ebpdvres altixa mapeppbynoay. Cp. 3. 16. 11 KaNodat dé 
odk OpOlay povor, ada kai Avyodéouay Thy adrhy, bre év Oduvw Niywv evpéOn, TeprerAnBetoa 
6€ 7 NUyos erolnae TO dyahua dpbdr. 

8 Folk-Lore 1905 xvi. 290 n. g. Note also the title Amdisagrus (sapra p. 328). 

7 My expert friend Dr P. Giles tells me (May rgr8) that * Vurdza, the strict equivalent’ 
of Fop@ia (for wordhiia), involves a sound Vz which the Latins disliked and would there- 
fore alter by dissimilation (cp. *vaeus>vicus). He thinks that the first 7 of Virézws may 
perhaps be due to the influence of the second 7 (cp. /idzws). 

8 According to Walde Lat. etym. Worterb.? pp. 55 f., 58 and Boisacq Dict. étym. de 
la Langue Gr. p. 711 f., arbor, arduus, and 6p06s are all of kindred origin. 


422 The supports of the Sky personified 


showing Orthéa might be rendered ‘Goddess of Growth'’ and 
Virbius, ‘He who is concerned with Growth’ or the like? 


‘ ' 


vi. Zeus and the Twins. 


Thus far we have traced the fortunes of the divine Sky, which 
was represented, not only as a celestial archway, but also—since it 
was bright by day and dark by night—as a double-faced god* with 
a tendency to differentiation of the two faces*. It remains to notice 
yet another development of the same primitive conception. To 
put it briefly, the twofold Sky split into twins. The phrase sounds 
extravagant. Fissiparism savours more of biology than of mytho- 
logy®. Nevertheless we can mark the process by which the very 
vault of heaven first produced a pair of pendant divinities and 
afterwards underwent complete dichotomy. 


(a) The supports of the Sky personified. 


The initial step is taken when the supports of the Sky become 
personified® as its supporters, the result being a couple of contrasted 
sky-powers. The pillars of Herakles at one end of the Mediter- 
ranean’, formerly called the pillars of Briareos* and earlier still the 
pillars of Kronos’, together with the analogous pillars of Proteus at 
theother end”, those of Herakles in Pontos” or far beyond Babylon”, 


1 The alternative form ’Op@woia (Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 161 n. 12, 1284 n. 3, 
O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. A/yth. iii. 1210 ff., 1214 f.) is definitely transitive in meaning 
and would denote ‘ She who makes to grow.’ Cp. Zeus ‘Op@dovos (Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 
2.50 Op6woiw Aci=Ilovi Statorz, Scholl—Studemund amecd. i. 265 no. 73 (Acés) 6pOwotou, 
26. i. 266 no. 65 (Acs) dpAwoiov) with Cramer anecd. Oxon. i. 58, 15 6pOwow ’OpAdcros, 
Arkad. de accent. p. 41, 12 f. Barker 6p@woouat, 6pOworos. 

2 See, however, another possible explanation given supra p. 395 n. 2 fin. 

3 Supra p. 378. 4 Supra p. 387 ff. 

> Something of a parallel is provided by the Orphic theogonies, in which the primal 
egg splits into Ouranos and Ge (fra Append. G). 

8 Cp. supra p. 57 Ms Te 

7 Greek references are collected by Stephanus 7hes. Gr. Ling. vii. 752 A—C, W. Pape— 
G. E. Benseler Worterbuch der griechischen Eigennamen*® Braunschweig 1875 i. 469 3 
Latin references, by De Vit Oxomasticon i. 21, ii. 76, 386, iii. 349, Thes. Ling. Lat. iii. 
1741, 22 ff. Tac. Germ. 34 locates the pillars on the German coast. 

8 Aristot. frag. dub. 628 Rose ap. Ail. var. hist. 5. 3, Hesych. s.v. Bpudpew or frat. 
Cp. the hexameter line quoted by schol. Pind. Wem. 3. 40 with E. Abel’s note ad Joc. 

® Euphorion and Charax frag. 16 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 640 Miiller) ap. schol. Dionys. 
er. 64 and Eustath. ad Joc. 

10 Verg. Aen. 11. 262 f. with Serv. ad loc. 

1 Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 11. 262. 

® Tul. Valer. 3. 49 p. 157, 14 ff. Kuebler (two inscribed ste/ae of solid gold and silver 
respectively, fifteen cubits high, two cubits thick, at a distance of ninety-five days’ journey 
from Babylon), cp. the zténerarium Alexandri 54 (ed. D. Volkmann, Naumburg 1871, 
p- 29, 3 ff.) (two inscribed ste/ae of solid gold and silver respectively, twelve cubits high, 
two cubits thick, at a distance of ninety days’ journey from Babylon). 


The supports of the Sky personified 423 


those of Herakles and Dionysos in India?, imply the belief that the 
sky rests upon solid and tangible supports*. But these as yet are 
mere columns or columnar heights*. The two pillars before the 
altar of Zeus on Mount Lykaion were likewise in all probability 
conceived as sky-props. And here a certain advance may be dis- 
cerned: the pillars are divinised, so to say, by the sky-god, who 
rests upon each in the form of a gilded eagle‘. 

The Phoenicians in their sacred architecture went a step further 
towards personification. The two inscribed columns of bronze, 
eight cubits high, in the Herakleion at Gadeira, which some took to 
be the original pillars of Herakles’, were at least masses of shining 
metal. They were excelled in brilliance by the two pillars,which 
Herodotos saw in the sanctuary of Herakles at Tyre: of these, one 
was made of pure gold®, the other of ‘emerald-stone large enough 


1 The pillars of Herakles and Dionysos on Indian soil (Strab. 171) are sometimes 
called boundary-stones (Curt. 3. 10. 5, 9. 4. 21), sometimes altars (Plin. mat. hist. 6. 49, 
Solin. 49. 4, Mart. Cap. 692). The pillars of Dionysos (Apollod. 3. 5. 2, Avien. descr. 
orb. terr. 824 ff., 1384. The epztome rerum gestarum Alexandri Magni 12 (ed. O. Wagner 
Leipzig 1900) mentions one pillar only) are also termed mefae (Claud. de ert. cons. Honor. 
Aug. paneg. 208). 

2 Preller—Robert Gr. AZyth. i. 562 n. 1, 565, 624 n. 1, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 383, 
R. Eisler Weltenmantel und Himmelszelt Miinchen 1910 i. 325, 369, 392 N. 5, ii. 619, 
624, 627, 631. Supra p. 141. 

3 Eustath. 27 Dionys. per. 64 gaci dé adras 7) dvdpudvras elvar ‘Hpakdéos, x.7.X. is an 
isolated vagary, which cannot be held to justify the assertion of F. Diirrbach in Darem- 
berg—Saglio Dzct. Ant, iii. 93 that the pillars of Herakles ‘ne sont pas autre chose sans 
doute que les simulacres de la divinité chez les Phéniciens.’ Priscian. fer. 617 ff., 1057 f. 
(Poet. Lat. min. y. 296 and 311 Baehrens) in like manner describes the pillars of Dionysos 
as statuae: see De Vit Onomasticon i. 655. 

I add what seems to be a northern parallel. At Cape Solfar in the southern part of 
Porsanger Fjord the Lapps of the eighteenth century had their most famous cult-centre. 
Here at a distance of half a mile from the sea rose two lofty rocks, one of them coated 
with moss. Near the rocks lay the spits (Bassem-Morak) used at festivals of the god, to 
whom his worshippers offered only the bare bones of the animals sacrificed, expecting 
him to reclothe the same with flesh [cp. Frazer Golden Bough*: Spirits of Corn and Wild 
ii. 257]. Stakes of dry firwood were set up crosswise against the rocks, each marked with 


the signs IX XXI-+A+-+111X XX. [Longish stakes called Zie¢-Morak, smeared with 
the blood of the victim, were commonly set up on the place of sacrifice.] Towards the 
south stood a tall square beam bearing the same marks: the lower part of it was driven 
into the ground, the upper part was pierced by an iron nail like a trenail. Knud Leem 
supposes that the deity here worshipped was Thor, though he admits that no idol named 
Thor was then known among the Lapps of Finmark (Canutus Leemius De Lapponibus 
Finmarchie, eorumque lingua, vita et religione pristina commentatio Rigbenhavn 1767 
p. 437f. with p. 428 f. pl. 86=my fig. 329, Knud Leem Wachrichten von den Lappen 
in Finmarken, ihrer Sprache, Sitten, Gebrauche, und ehemaligen heidnischen Religion 
Leipzig 1771 p. 221 with p. 216). Supra p. 57 n. I. 

4 Supra i. 66, 83 f. 

5 Poseidonios of Apameia frag. 96 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 294 Miiller) af. Strab. 170. 

6 Eupolemos, a Jewish historian writing c. 150 B.C. (Jacoby in Pauly—Wissowa 


424 The supports of the Sky personified 


to shine by night!’ Brighter still were the two slender shafts, which 
on some coins of Kypros (figs. 325, 326), Sardeis (fig. 327)’, and 





Fig. 327. Fig. 328. 


Pergamon (fig. 328)4 representing the temple of Aphrodite Paphza 
flank and possibly duplicate the main standards of its facade’; for 
here and elsewhere (fig. 330)* they are treated as candelabra, on 


Real-Enc. vi. 1227 ff.), as quoted by Alex. Polyhist. frag. 18 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 228 
Miiller) af. Euseb. praep. ev. 9. 34. 18 makes this pillar sent by Solomon to Souron king 
of Tyre etc.: 7@ dé Sovpwre els Tipov réupac Tov xpuvcoov xlova Tov éev Tupw avaxeluevoy ev 
T@ lep@ Tod Ards. See F. X. Kortleitner De polytheismo universo Oeniponte 1908 p. 229. 

1 Hdt. 2. 44. Cp. supra i. 356 and 583 n. 2. 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Cyprus p. 77 pl. 15, 4 Vespasian, p. 82 f. pl. 16, 6—9 
Trajan. Figs. 325 and 326 are from specimens in my collection, struck by Vespasian 
(KOINONKY TTPIQNETOY CH= 76/77 a.v.) and Trajan (AHMAPXE =YTTA- 
TOC and KOINONKYTTPIQIN). 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Cyprus p. cxxxif. pl. 26, 8 (=my fig. 327), 9—12, 26. Lydia 
p. 256 pl. 26, 8= Anson Vum. Gr. v. 29 no. 199 pl. 5 Hadrian TAPIH CAPAIANON. 

4 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Cyprus p. cxxix f. pl. 26, 7 (Paris) =my fig. 328 referable to 
the time of Trajan or Hadrian TEPTAMHNONETTICTPITIQAAIQ.NOC and 
TTAPIA. 

> Suprai. 767 n. Ke 

6 Fig. 330 represents a small gold ring in my possession. The incised design (scale ?) 
shows the sanctuary of the Paphian Aphrodite with its sacred cone, towered pylon, 
flanking candelabra, and paved semicircular court. For similar gold rings see L. P. di 
Cesnola Cyprus: wats ancient cities, tombs, and temples London 1877 p. 390 no. 10 
(wrongly described) pl. 41, 20 (figured upside down), p. 391 no. 18, Brit. Aus. Cat. 
Finger Rings p. 25 nos. 134, 135, 136 (‘on either side of the central chamber is a column 
surmounted by a blazing torch’), p. 29 no. 175, p. 44 no. 253 fig. 51 pl. 6 (relief with 
enamel filling), p. 240 f. nos. 1640 and 1641 pl. 35 (reliefs of appligué work). Cp. the 
engraved gems in A. P. di Cesnola Sa/aminia London 1882 p. 40 f. fig. 39, Furtwangler 
Geschnitt. Steine Berlin p. 134 no. 2977 pl. 25, id. Antiken Gemmen i pl. 64, 81, ii. 296, 
Brit. Mus. Cat. Finger Rings p. 76 no. 432, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Cyprus p. cxxviii f. 


The supports of the Sky personified 425 


the top of which flares are burning’. Again, the two pillars of 


































































































































































































<= 
































Fig. 329. 
burnished bronze made by the Phoenician Hiram for the forefront 


no. 1 Paris (‘ Between these columns and the central portion are burning torches’) pl. 26, 
‘13, no. 2 Paris pl. 26, 15, no. 3 Berlin pl. 26, 14, no. 4 British Museum pl. 26, 16 and 
the bronze mirror in A. P. di Cesnola Sa/aminia pp. 40, 59 fig. 66. 

1 The best general account of the Paphian structure as figured on coins and gems is 
that given by Mr G. F. Hill in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Cyprus pp. cxxvii—cxxxiv. 
But the subject is deserving of a well-illustrated monograph. 


426 The supports of the Sky personified 


of Solomon’s temple? were, according to W. Robertson Smith, in the 
nature of huge candlesticks or cressets, 
perhaps in actual use as fire-altars?. The 
names given to them—/achzn, ‘ He will 
establish,’ ‘the Stablisher, and Aoaz, ‘in 
Him is Strength’ (?)’—imply that they 
were in some sense personified supports‘, 
though still aniconic in shape®. And 
their original character as sky-pillars has 

Se been detected by R. Eisler® When 
Fig. 330. broken by the Chaldeans and carried off 





1 ; Kings 7. 1322, 40—42, 2 Kings 25. 16 f., 2 Chron. 3. 15—17, 4. 11—13. 

2 W. Robertson Smith Lectures on the Religion of the Semites* London 1907 p. 487 ff. 
J. B. de Rossi ‘Verre représentant le temple de Jérusalem’ in the Archives de l’orient 
Jatin Paris 1884 ii. 444 remarks @ propos of these columns: ‘II y en avait aussi a Rome, 
dans la basilique constantinienne du Latran; elles étaient au nombre de quatre, en 
bronze doré, dans l’abside, et supportaient des lampes!’. [!7 Le livre pontifical, vie de 
Sylvestre, ne parle pas de ces colonnes; mais il en est question dans la Descriptio 
sanctuarti ecclesie vomane contenue dans le ms. Vat. Reg. 712 et dans un ms. de Valen- 
ciennes du x1l® siécle (V. AZusaici di Roma, texte relatif 4 la mosaique de la chapelle des 
Stes Rufine et Seconde). Leur antiquité n’est pas douteuse et leur position isolée ne me 
parait pas pouvoir étre attribuée aux restaurations de la basilique pendant le Moyen Age. ] 
Je ne dis pas que sur celles de Jérusalem il y eut des lampes au dessus des chapiteaux 
terminés en forme de lys; bien que, dans l’art chrétien et dans la liturgie chrétienne, le 
terme de /z/a ait designé des chapiteaux et des candélabres.’ 

3 1 Kings 7. 21, 2 Chron. 3. 17. 

4 Alii aliter. (1) E. L. Curtis—A. A. Madsen A critical and exegetical commentary 
on the Books of Chronicles Edinburgh 1910 p. 329: ‘These pillars were in Solomon’s 
Temple because they were a usual feature of Semitic temples, symbols of the deity, 
a survival in this form of the ancient stone pillars the Mazzeboth.’ (2) G. Maspero Zhe 
Struggle of the Nations trans. M. L. McClure London 1896 p. 746 n. 1: ‘ we may...see 
in them merely an equivalent of the Egyptian Stele-Pillars—as, for instance, those of the 
temple of Karnak.’ (3) R. Eisler Weltenmantel und Himmelszelt Miinchen 1910 ii. 629 
n. 2: ‘Die phallische Bedeutung der beiden Saulen, die der Ps.-Lucian den Exemplaren 
in Bambyke ausdriicklich beilegt [szpra i. 591 n. 3], ist auch fiir den salomonischen Tempel 
durch die kabbalistische Tradition (KARPPE, Le Zohar p. 433) bezeugt. Dort wird iiber- 
dies erzaihlt, dass diejenigen Frauen, die sich Nachkommenschaft wiinschten, vegetabi- 
lische Opfergaben am Fusse der beiden Saulen niederzulegen pflegten.’ (4) W. Robertson 
Smith of. c’t. p. 208 n. 1: ‘doubtless symbols of Jehovah.’ (3)+(4) T. W. David in 4 
Dictionary of the Bible ed. by J. Hastings Edinburgh 1898 i. 308 f.: ‘the pillars stood 
for deity, and they formed a part of that Phallic worship of which we are finding more 
and more traces in the ancient world...even to the Israelites these pillars were symbols 
of J”, so that...the true God was set forth by these Phallic emblems... Possibly the two 
pillars stood for male and female, the active and passive principle in nature.’ 

> Perrot—Chipiez Ast. de l’ Art iii. 120, iv. 288 ff., 314 ff. fig. 164 (restoration by 
C. J. M. de Vogiié), figs. 165 and 166 with pls. 6 and 7 (restorations by C. Chipiez). 
See also O. C. Whitehouse in A Dictionary of the Bible ed. by J. Hastings Edinburgh 
1goo ii. 881, F. Vigouroux in his Dictzonnatre de la Bible Paris 1899 ii. 856 fi. 

6 R. Eisler Wellenmantel und Himmelszelt Miinchen 1910 i. 48, ii. 624. Td. 2b. ii. 
603 n. 8 cites from the A/zdras tadfe ii (S. Funck Monumenta Judaica, altera pars, 


The supports of the Sky personified 427 


to Babylon!, they by no means passed into oblivion. A gilded 
glass, found beneath the ruins of a burial chamber in the cemetery 
ad duas lauros,on the via Labicana three miles out from Rome, 
shows the temple of Jerusalem as it yet lived in the memory of 





Mics 337. 


a pious Jew ¢. 250—350 A.D. (fig. 331)”. /achin and Boaz appear 
as two free-standing columns much taller than those of the facade 
and of a dark metallic hue. Even in the twelfth century Rabbi 
Benjamin of Tudela in Navarre records* among the sights of Rome 


Monumenta Talmudica, Erste Serie Wien 1907 ii. 239 no. 798): ‘die zwei Saulen Jachin 
und Boz entsprechen der Sonne und dem Mond.’ 

1 Jer. 52. 17, 20—23. 

2 J. B. de Rossi ‘Insigne vetro rappresentante il tempio di Gerusalemme’ in his 
Bullettino di archeologia cristiana 1882 pp. 137—158 pl. 7, 1 (lithograph), zd. ‘ Verre 
représentant le temple de Jérusalem’ in the Archives de l’orient latin Paris 1884 ii. 
439—455 with col. pl. (=my fig. 331), Perrot—Chipiez Mést. de /’ Art iv. 292 f. fig. 151, 
F. Vigouroux in his Dictionnaire de la Bible Paris 1899 ii. 856 ff. with col. pl. (the steps 
to the temple and the pillars of its colonnade are here shown in silver). Inscribed 
OIK OCIPH[-]JC AA BE EVAOTIA and [- ---- ] C@[-] TTANTQN =oikos 
(e)ipy[vn]s. AdBe evdNoyla(v) and [mle, (joas wera TOV] cG[y] ravTwr. 

3 The Itinerary of Rabbi Benjamin of Tudela. Translated and edited by A. Asher 
London and Berlin 1840 i. 40f. I am indebted for my knowledge of this passage to 
R. Eisler of. czt. i. 48, who has done good service by drawing attention to it. When, 
however, he goes on to suggest that Georgios Monachos de Basilio Macedone 14 (p. 844, 
3 ff. Bekker) AAG Kal rhy orAAnv DoNouavTos év TH Baortcxp otoav meylarny Kareakas 
mpocérakev év dvouate adtod éxruTwOjvar Kai TeORvaL KaTwOEV ev Tots HEeweNiots THS avTHs 
Néas éxxAnolas, ws Ovotav éavtov TH ToT KTigmaTL TH VEw mpocdywv may refer to one of 


428 The supports of the Sky personified 


‘Also St. Giovanni in porta latina in which place of worship there are two 
copper pillars constructed by king Sh’lomo o. b. m. whose name “ Sh’lomo Ben 
David” is engraved upon each. The Jews in ROME told him}, that every year 
about the time of the 9th of Ab?, these pillars sweat so much that the water 
runs down from them.’ 


From pillars with personal names we go on to pillars with 
individual effigies. At Antiocheia on the Orontes, close to Mount 
Silpion with its cult of Zeus Keraznios*, Tiberius built a sanctuary 
of Dionysos and outside the temple set up two great statues-on- 
columns (s¢é/az) in honour of the Dioskouroi Amphion and Zethos‘. 
My friend Dr Rendel Harris has justly compared them with the two 
extant columns of Edessa (Oza), which he regards as originally 
‘representative of or votive to the great twin-brethren®. He holds 
that the Edessan columns were surmounted by statues of the Twins, 
and he has even attempted to decipher in that sense the Syriac 
inscription graven on the more southerly shaft®. Further, he has 
cited in this connexion an important passage from Julian, who 
shortly before 361 A.D.’ writes : 


‘The inhabitants of Edessa, a place sacred from time immemorial to Helios, 
associate with him in cult Monimos and Azizos. Iamblichos, from whose ample 
stores I have taken all this, states that by Monimos they mean Hermes, by 


Azizos Ares, consorts of Helios, conveying many a benefit to the region round 
the earth®.’ 


It looks as though the local Twins had been identified with Azizos, 
‘the Strong’ (‘azéz), and Monimos, ‘the Beneficent’ (#oun‘zm), 


the two pillars of the temple at Jerusalem, he is forgetting that these pillars were both 
demolished (sara p. 427 n. 1) and that o77\7 in late Greek means ‘ statue-on-pillar’ and 
so ‘statue’ (C. d. F. Ducange Glossarium ad Scriptores media & infime Grecitatis 
Lugduni 1688 ii. 1447, Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. vii. 752 D). 

1 Sc. Benjamin of Tudela. 

? The anniversary of the destruction of Jerusalem. 

3 Infra Append. N. 

4 Io. Malal. chron. 10 p. 234 Dindorf ékrice 6é kal iepbv 7 Atoviow mpos TH Sper 
6 avros TiBépios Bacide’s, orjoas do orndas meyadas Tay €& "AvTiomns yevynbévTwy Aroc- 
kovpwv é&w Tod vaod els Timipy ad’rav, ’Audiovds te kal ZjPov. On the force of o77Aas see 
supra nN. Oo. 

5 J. Rendel Harris The Dioscuri in the Christian Legends London 1903 p. 29 ff., ad. 
The Cult of the Heavenly Twins Cambridge 1906 p. 105 ff. pls. (2) and (3), 7d. Boanerges 
Cambridge 1913 pp. 250 ff., 407 f. 

6 See, however, the revised reading and rendering of F. C. Burkitt ‘The ‘‘ Throne 
of Nimrod”’ in the Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archeology 1906 xxviii. 149— 
155. Prof. Burkitt, on the strength of a fresh photograph (zd. pl. 1), rules out the 
supposed allusion to the Dioskouroi and concludes that ‘we do not yet know to what 
deity it [the column] was dedicated.’ 

7 Supra i. 687. 

8 Toul. ov. 4. 130 C—D oi rhv "Edecoay (E. Spanheim’s cj. "Euecay is wrongly adopted 
by W. C. Wright) olkodvres, iepov é& al@vos ‘HNlov xwplov, Movimov aire Kal “Acifov 
avyxahdpiovew. ailvitrecdal dnow "IduBdxos, map’ ot Kal TaAAa TavTa Ex TOAAGY miKpA 


The supports of the Sky personified 429 


Arabic divinities of the morning- and evening-star'. I would sup- 
port Dr Rendel Harris’ main contention by pointing out that on 
coppers of Edessa struck under Elagabalos (fig. 332)?, Gordianus 





Pius (figs. 333, 334)’, and Tranquillina (fig. 335)? Tyche, the city- 
goddess, faces towards a column, on which is a small male figure 
in military costume(?) bearing a shield(?) on his left arm and 
brandishing a weapon of some sort with his right®. This warlike 


€AdBowev, ws 6 Movimos wer ‘Epufs etn,” Agitos dé “Apns, ‘HXlov mapedpo, modda cal dyaba 
T@ wepl viv émoxerevovtes Tomy. Cp. 7. 154 A—B yw bé bre uev “Apns "Afifos Neydouevos 
tro r&v olkotvrwy tiv “Edecoay (E. Spanheim and W. C. Wright would again read 
“Euecav) Sbpwr ‘HNiov mporoumreter, kalrep eldws Kal mpoermay apyoew por 5oxd. 

1 Supra i. 706 n, 2. See further W. M. Calder in the.Journ. Hell. Stud. 1913 xxxiii. 
103 and F. Cumont Zvtudes syriennes Paris 1917 pp- 269 n. 2, 353- 

* Hunter Cat. Coins iii. 308 pl. 79, 2 (=my fig. 332) AAAPAVPANTOK 
OAEA - -- 

® Rasche Lex. Num. iii. 527, Suppl. ii. 720, E. Babelon in the Revue belee de numis- 
matique 1893 xlix. 25 no. 85 pl. 3, 1, Hunter Cat. Coins iii. 312 f. Fig. 333 is from 
a specimen given to me by Dr Rendel Harris; fig. 334, from another specimen in my 
collection. MHT-KOA-EAECCHNWN. 

* Rasche Lex. Mum. iii. 527 f., Suppl. ii. 720 f., E. Babelon in the Revue belge de 
numismatigue 1893 xlix. 27 no. gt pl. 3, 3 [MMHT-KOA:JEAECCHNWN, Hunter Cat. 
Coins iii. 313 pl. 79, 8 (=my fig. 335) MH[ TKOAJEAECCHNON. 

5 The little figure has often been fancifully interpreted. Thus J. F. Vaillant Mmis- 
mata erea Imperatorum, Augustarum, et Cesarum, in colonits, municipizs, et urbtbus 
ture Latto donatis, ex omnt modulo percussa Parisiis 1695 ii. 145 fig. says: ‘columna, in 
qua Diana ut videtur Venatricis habitu, dextra extensd telum, leva arcum’ <tenens> 
(cp. Rasche Lex. Num. iii. 527). Eckhel Doctr. num. vet. iii. 511 has: ‘ sémulacrum 
Palladis, ut videtur, columellae impositum’ (cp. Rasche Lex. Mum. Suppl. ii. 720). 
E. Babelon /occ. citt. speaks of ‘un petit génie,’ which is vague. Head Hist. num.) p. 689 


430 The supports of the Sky personified 


personage can hardly be other than Azizos, whom lamblichos 
compared with Ares. If so, he was one, and the more important 
one, of the Edessan Twins. The identification is borne out by the 
fact that coppers of Edessa struck by Alexander Severus and Iulia 
Mamaea (fig. 336)! show a somewhat similar little figure standing . 
on the turreted crown of the goddess in the attitude of a fighting 









OS® 


Sh 
aes 












Fig. 336. 


giant and probably intended for the constellation Orion?, whose 
position in the starry sky is contiguous to that of the Twins*. 
Whether Azizos and Monimos were, as R. Dussaud‘ supposes, 
parallel forms arising from the duplication of a single god or rather, 
as F. Cumont? suggests, originally distinct divinities on their way 
towards ultimate fusion, we cannot with the daza at our disposal 


‘the figure of a divinity on a column’ is hardly less so. G. Macdonald in the Hunter 
Cat. Coins locc. citt. hazards ‘statue (of Aquarius?)’ and is followed by Head est. 
num.” p. 815. 

1 E. Babelon in the Revue belge de numismatique 1893 xlix. 20 f. no. 79 pl. 2, 9: 
‘un petit génie qui, peut-étre, tire de l’arc.’ Hunter Cat. Coins iii. 312 pl. 79, 7: ‘small 
statue (of Aquarius ?).’ Fig. 336 is from a specimen given to me by Dr Rendel Harris. 
MHTKOA EAECCHNON. The city-goddess is seated on a stool with a small tem- 
ple in her right hand, the river-god Skirtos at her feet, and four stars round about her. 

2 For type see G. Thiele Aztike Himmelsbilder Berlin 1898 p. 119 ff. fig. 45, Kiientzle 
in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 10277 f. fig. 3. 

3 A. Jeremias Handbuch der altorientalischen Geisteskultur Leipzig 1913 p. 129 with 
pl. 1 f. (‘Sternbilderkarte’ and ‘ Sternkarte’). 

4 R. Dussaud—F. Macler A@isston dans les Régions désertiques de la Syrie moyenne 
(extr. from the Nouvelles Archives des Missions sctentifiques x) Paris 1903 p. 57 ff., 
R. Dussaud in the Rev. Arch. 1903 1. 129 f. =zd. Moles de mythologie syrienne Paris 1903 
p- 9f., zd. Les Arabes en Syrie avant l’Islam Paris 1907 p. 131 f. Dussaud argues that 
various deities identified with the planet Venus were thereby duplicated into hypostases 
corresponding with the morning- and evening-star. Thus the Sabaean god ‘ Athtar, ‘ équi- 
valent onomastique d’Ichtar et forme masculine d’ ‘ Achtoret-Astarté,’ produced the pair 
Azizos and Monimos, the Arabian counterparts of Phosphoros and Hesperos, 

> F. Cumont Ztudes syriennes Paris 1917 p. 269 n. 2: ‘On pourrait, il est vrai, se 
demander si ce n’est pas le phénomene inverse qui s’est produit ici: les dieux de létoile 
du matin et de l’étoile du soir, primitivement distincts, seraient confondus lorsque l’astro- 
nomie reconnut que les deux planétes n’en faisaient qu'une. C’est ce qui arriva en Gréce 
pour Phosphoros et Hespéros.’ But see R. Dussaud in the Rev. Arch. 1903 i. 129 n. I 
=id. Notes de mythologie syrienne Paris 1903 p. 9 0. I. 


The supports of the Sky personified 431 


determine. It is, however, permissible to think that their columns 
on the citadel of Edessa were conceived as sky-supports. For at 
Baitokaike (fig. 337)! and elsewhere throughout the Syrian area 






" = Ae nds 
TTty, \) Yow 


lu > 
p 





Azizos and Monimos are found as the regular supporters of the 
solar eagle carved on the soffits of sacred lintels?. 

Finally, Etruscan mirrors show the starry roof actually resting 
on the heads of the Dioskouroi®. The great majority of these 


1 E. G. Rey in the Archives des Misstons scientifiques et littéraires Paris 1866 Deuxiéme 
série iii. 338 with woodcut, R. Dussaud in the Rev. Arch. 1903 i. 131 fig. 3 (reproduced 
in my fig. 337)=zd. Notes de mythologie syrienne Paris 1903 p. 11 fig. 3. Dussaud thinks 
that each of the ép4eb0¢ was holding in both hands a torch (probably added in paint), and 
that one of these torches was raised, the other lowered. But? 

2 R. Dussaud in the Rev. Arch. 1903 i. 131 ff.=7d. Notes de mythologie syrienne 
Paris 1903 p. 11 f. Supra i. 565. 

3 Supra i. 769 f. figs. 561, 562, 563, 565. I have (2d. p. 767 n. 1) compared the 
Dioscuric arch with the structure of the Japanese fori7. Prof. Takeo Wada of Kyoto 
University kindly informs me that at Yamagata there is a ¢orii, the two side-posts of 


432 The Dioskouroi as the halves of the Sky 


mirrors!, by a curious convention, gives the heroes but one arm 
apiece, as though to indicate their conjoint being’. Other bronzes 
of Etruscan make represent them with two arms each, but only a 


single wing (fig. 338)*. 
(8) The Dioskouroi as the halves of the Sky. 


Looking back, we realise that the divine Sky has little by little 
transformed its supports into anthropomorphic supporters. Tyn- 
dareos has been joined by the Tyndaridai. Zeus has begotten the 
Dioskouroi. But the process is still incomplete. For it cannot be 
said that the Sky itself has as yet suffered cleavage or split into a 
pair of Twins. The fact is that, so long as men believed in a flat 
earth overarched by a solid sky resting on side-props, further de- 
velopment was impossible. But with the dawn of philosophy a 
better cosmology appeared‘. Ionic speculation in the sixth century 
B.c. led on to the view, first clearly enunciated by Parmenides and 
zealously propagated by the Pythagoreans, that this earth of ours 
is a sphere’. It then became natural to conceive of the Sky as 
composed of two hemispheres, respectively light and dark. And 
some unknown thinker, perhaps Empedokles’, more likely a Stoic’, 
ventured to identify them with the Dioskouroi. His explanation 
appealed to rational minds and found favour in a materialistic age. 
For instance, Philon the Jew, speaking of ingenious mythologists in 
his treatise On the Decalogue (c. 40 A.D.), says: 


which are carved in relief with standing figures of temple-servitors wearing their official 
caps. The resemblance to the scene on the Etruscan mirrors is singularly complete. 

1 For a larger collection of evidence see Gerhard E¢r. Spzegel ili. 33 ff. pls. 45 ff. 

2 Suprai. 768. Since writing on the subject I have acquired a mirror (pl. xxiv), which 
retains the usual type of the Dioskouroi with Phrygian cap, short cz¢é7, bent leg, single 
arm, and connective pediment, but adds between the brothers their mother Leda (?) in a 
Phrygian cap and their.sister Helene (?) with rayed hair. The stars are here absent, unless 
the pattern on the two shields can be claimed as stellar. Length o'245™. Breadth 0°116™. 
Cp. Gerhard Zt. Spregel iil. 317 pl. 227, 2= Babelon—Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. 
Nat. p. 525 f. no. 1313 fig. 

3-1 figure a pair of belt-hooks, obtained by Mr E. J. Seltman in Capri, and now in 
my possession. The Twins, whose heads are rayed, bear a dagger and a knife in their 
right hands. The left hand in each case is empty and clumsily rendered, being perhaps 
no part of the original design. A wolf’s head terminates each hook above and below; 
but it must not hastily be assumed that this is due to contamination with Romulus and 
Remus (27fra p. 440 ff.). Height o-104™. Cp. Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 351 no.. 2858. 
Another belt-hook of the same provenance and of similar design (fig. 339) omits the wings, 
but connects the heads of the ‘wins by means of a forked bar. 

+ For a clear perception of this sequence of ideas I am indebted to friendly criticisms 
received from Miss Harrison (Sept. 23, 1918). 

5 O. Gilbert Die meteorologischen Theorien des griechischen Altertums Leipzig 1907 
p. 273 ff. 

6 Jd. ib. pp. 112, 490, 683 f. 7 Td. 2b. p. 284 n. £. 


Plate XXIV 





> See 


S 
. 
yee 


74 
Donne 
Ze UUs: 
QQ GEL yS 


$B Q0r, 








Etruscan mirror: the Dioskouroi with Leda(?) and Helene (?) 
between them. 
See page 432 n. 2. 






eS: Acs 7 
‘I wor ie nay) rey ae, ry 
ih 7h ies! a a) 


The Dioskouroi as the halves of the Sky 433 


‘They bisected the sky theoretically into hemispheres, one above, the other 
below, the earth, and called them Dioskoroi, adding a marvellous tale about 
their life on alternate days!’ 


Again, that acute doubter Sextus Empiricus (¢. 180 A.D.), @ propos 
of men raised to the rank of gods, writes as follows: 


zr Moreover, they say that the Tyndaridai usurped the reputation of the 
Dioskouroi, who were thought to be gods. For in those days wise folk spoke of 
the two hemispheres, the one above the earth and the other below it, as Dios- 
kouroi. Wherefore also the poet, hinting at this, says of them: 


One day they are alive, the next day dead 
In alternation, honoured like to gods. 


And men put Z2/oz on their heads with stars atop, hinting at the arrangement of 
the hemispheres?.’ 


An anonymous Jztroduction to the Phaenomena of Aratos (later 
than s. i A.D.) alludes briefly to the same ‘ Homeric allegory*’ And 
Julian attacks it in his oration on 7he Soveretgn Sun (361 A.D.): 


‘Who, think you, are the Dioskouroi, my wise friends, you that accept 
tradition without criticism ?... Some have supposed that the theogonists meant 
the two hemispheres of the universe. But this is absurd. For how each of the 
hemispheres is “alternate of days” it is not easy to imagine, since the increase 
of their light each day is imperceptible *’ 


Ioannes the Lydian (¢c. 490—c. 570 A.D.) repeats the theory : 


‘The philosophers declare that the Dioskoroi are the hemisphere below, 
and the hemisphere above, the earth; they take it in turns to die, according to 
the myth, because turn and turn about they pass beneath our feet®.’ 


1 Philon de decalogo 12 (iv. 258 Richter) rév re ovpavoy eis Nusopaipioy THO NOyw dixF 
Otaveluavres, TO mev vrép ys, TO de bro ys, Avocxdpous ExahécavTo, wept THs ETEpnuepov 
fons abra@y mpooreparevodmevor Suyynua. 

2 Sext. adv. math. 9. 37 kal rovs Tuvdaplias 5é pace tiv T&v Avockotpwr dbéav brreNOeiv 
madw (an leg. wadat?) vourfoudvwy elvar Oedv* Ta yap dbo Nutopalpia, 76 Te rep yhy Kal 
76 bro ynv, Atocxotpous of copol Tay Tére dvOpHmwv eeyov. 61d Kal 6 mownTys TOOTO aiviTT- 
duevds pnow em’ avt&v ‘*&ddoTe pev FwWous’ Erepjuepor, dANoTE SO’ abre | TeOvaow: TiuHr 
0€ Nehdyxacw isa Oeoior.” (Od. 11. 303 f.). mtidous 7’ émiTiOéacw avdrois Kal éml TovTos 
aorépas aivicobmevor (alvirromevor?) Thy TaY Nuoparplwv KaTacKeuHy. 

% Anon. i zsag. in Arati phaen. praef. p. 89, 24 ff. Maass ef 6€ rw pidov Kal Tas map’ 
“Ounpw addnyopias éEerdoat, padidv éori ldety Kal Tod wédou Kal THY aldcov Kivnow Kal Ta 
hucogpalpia kal rv els Ps ad’rGv dpmoBnv... ‘addoTe BD ab<re>| TeOvaor” (Od. 11. 303 f.). 
un Pracdnunons, dvOpwre* otk amobvjcKer Beds. TO adpaves To’TOU Oavaros jv. dia TOTO 
kal (wypdago. Téuvovort TOy Oe@y Thy Kepadny els toov ExaTépw <Tav> Tod médou Hucogparplov 
(so E. Maass for rv icouorplay cod. V.). 

4 Toul. ov. 4. 147 A—B oi Atocxoupo: tives vuiv elow, © copwraro. Kal aBacavicrws TH 
Toda mapadexouevar;... ovde yap ws bréhaBov elpjobal Twes mpds Ta Deohdywv hucopaipra 
ToO mavTos TA SUo NOyor Exer TWA* THs yap éoTi ETEpHUEpov a’Tav ExacTov ovde éErwojoat 
padiov, nuépas Exaorns dveracOnrov Tis KaTa Tov pwricuov alTav mapavénocews ywvouevns. 

5 Lyd. de mens. 4. 17 p- 78, 17 ff. Wiinsch of piddcogpol dace Acocxdpous elvat 7d vd 
yi Kal <70> Urép yhv Nucopalprov* TeNevTaor Jé amorBadov puvdcKGs, oiovel Urd Tovs ayTi- 
todas €& duoB7s pepduevot, 


on be 28 


434 Twins as Children of the Sky 


Finally, Eustathios in the second half of the twelfth century includes 
this notion along with others in his commentary on the Homeric 
couplet’. It would seem, then, that Greek speculation from Hellen- 
istic to Byzantine times sought to identify the sons of Zeus with 
the two segments of the animate Sky. T. H. Martin? has plausibly 
conjectured that this is why the Pythagoreans regarded semicircles 
as sacred to the Dioskouroi*. 


(vy) Twins as Children of the Sky. 


I would dwell for a moment on'some aspects of this mytho- 
logical development. In the first place, it solves without more ado 
an otherwise baffling problem with regard to twins in general. 
Sir James Frazer, in his survey of superstitions as to twins in Africa, 
remarks concerning the Baronga of Delagoa Bay: ‘They bestow 
the name of 77/o—that is, the sky—on a woman who has given 
birth to twins, and the infants themselves are called the children of 
the sky4” He adds in a footnote: ‘The reason for calling twins 
“Children of the Sky” is obscure. Are they supposed in some 
mysterious way to stand for the sun and moon®?’ Dr Rendel 
Harris, who has contributed so much to the study of twins‘, carries 
the enquiry a stage further by pointing out ‘that we have here 
among the Baronga the exact equivalent of the Greek’ Dzdéskouroz’. 
But if that be so, there is no need to prolong discussion. The 





1 Eustath. zz Od. p. 1686, 33 ff. érepor dé ob mavu miBavas voobvTes TO érephuepov éml 
Tov Tov pev THdE Shv TH Nu€pa ws Tod érépou ev vexpots dvros, TH dé érépa Tov Aowrdv ws 
Oatépov Tebvedros, eis Ta SU0 Kat’ ovpavdy hurcpalpia tods AvooKkotpous Wrovootc.v, wy 
Garepov pev vmép yas del €or, Odrepov dé bwd yy. Sep avatpétwy 6 TwapaBarns Pyolv 
ws ovK exer Nbyor elpHaAar AtooKxotpous map ‘Ounpw Ta dbo hutopalpa ToU mavTos. K.T.A. 
(the reference is to loul. ov. 4. 147 B cited supra p. 433 n. 4). Cp. Eustath. iz Z/. p. 410, 
18 ff. 67e dé of Ardckoupo Kal els Ta SU Nucopaipia Tod mavTos évonOnoav, Kai els Tovs 
Tpomikovs O€ uddtcTa KUKAoOUS, 6 TapaBdrns LouALavos eypawev, ws Snrodrar Kal ey Tots els 
tiv ‘Odvcoear. 

2 T. H. Martin La foudre v’électricité et le magnétisme chez les anciens Paris 1866 
p- 297 f. 

3 Damask. guaest. de primis principiis 261 (ii. 127, 7 ff. Ruelle) dca ri yap rw wey Tov 
KUKNov aviépouy ol ILvOarydperor, Tw dé Tplywvov, Tw dé TeTpaywvov, Tw dé Edo Kal aAXNo TOV 
eVOvypapmwv TOY oXxnUdTwY, ws O€ Kal miKTaY, ws TA NuKUKALA Tots AtocKoUpols; K.T.r. 

A different view is cited by Iambl. v. Pyth. 155 orévdew 5€ mpd tparéfns mapakadet 
Avs Zwrhpos cat ‘Hpaxdéouvs kal Acockovpwr, THs Tpophs buvodvras Tov dpxnyov Kal Tov 
TavTns nyeuova Ala, cal tov ‘Hpaxdéa tiv Sivauw THs picews, Kal rols Atooxovpous THY 
cungwriay Tov dmdvrwv. On this see A. Delatte Etudes sur la littérature pythagoricienne 
Paris 1915 p. 115 f. 

4 Frazer Golden Bough*: The Magic Art i. 267 f., citing H. A. Junod Les Ba-ronga 
(Bulletin de la société neuchateloise de géographie x) Neuchatel 1898 pp. 412, 416 ff. 

5 Frazer Golden Bough®: The Magic Art i. 268 n. 1. 

6 Supra i. 760 n. 7. 

7 J. Rendel Harris 7%e Cult of the Heavenly Twins Cambridge 1906 p. 26. 


The Twins contrasted 435 


question is already answered. Twins are ‘Children of the Sky’ 
because the Sky itself, appearing alternately as Day and Night, is 
essentially of a twin character. And the savage who saw twins 
born of an earthly mother was logical (or should we say illogical ?) 
enough to dub her 77/0, ‘the Sky.’ Obviously this explanation does 
not exclude the possibility that the twinhood of the Sky was some- 
times expressed in terms of Sun and Moon!, or—for that matter— 
of Morning- and Evening-Star®?. These are but secondary modes 
of denoting the great primary contrast between Day and Night. 


(6) The Twins contrasted. 


In the second place, the bisection of the divine Sky naturally 
produced Twins of differing complexion. Sundry scholars have 
even supposed that the contrast might be crudely indicated by 
means of colour. Thus W. Watkiss Lloyd* as far back as 1850 
published a black-figured amphora, then in possession of a London 
dealer, which represents two warriors, with helmets, shield, and 
lances, riding side by side on a black horse and a white horse to- 
wards a youth greeting them with uplifted hand. The learned author 
interpreted the scene as the Dioskouroi welcomed by Hyakinthos, 
and remarked ‘the common relation of the brothers to alternating 
light and darkness.’ F. F. Ravaisson‘ in 1875 pointed out that on 
the red-figured amphora from Melos, now in the Louvre’, which 
shows the Dioskouroi taking part in a grand Gigantomachy, one of 
the heroes is charging on a white horse, the other on a red horse. 
And E. Bethe® as late as 1903 thought it significant that on a vase 
of the Blacas collection published by Panofka’ the Dioskouroi have 
a black pé/os and a white fios respectively. But the fact is that in 
all these cases the use of white and black is merely an artistic 


1 Indeed, a whole set of European folk-tales points in that direction (2z/a Append. F). 

? Cp. the description of the Dioskouroi in Mart. Cap. 83 post hos duorum una quidem 
germanaque facies ; sed alius lucis sidere, opacae noctis alius refulgebat. 

3 W. Watkiss Lloyd in Transactions of the Royal Society of Literature of the United 
Kingdom Second Series 1853 iv. 261 f., 289 ff. with woodcut and col. pl. 

4 F. F. Ravaisson ‘ Notice sur une amphore peinte du Musée du Louvre représentant 
le combat des dieux et des géants’ in the Monuments grecs publiés par 1 Association pour 
Vencouragement des Etudes grecques en France No. 4 1875 p. 1 ff. pl. rf. 

> Pottier Cat, Vases du Louvre iii. 1109, Furtwaingler—Reichhold Gr. Vasenmaleret 
ii. 193 ff. pl. 96f., J. D. Beazley Attic Red-figured Vases in American Museums Cam- 
bridge (Harvard University Press) 1918 p. 184, Hoppin Xed-fig. Vases ii. 450 no. 3. 
Attic work from the end of s. v B.c., probably by the same artist as the Talos-vase 
(supra i. 721 pl. xli) and very possibly inspired by the Gigantomachy painted on the 
inner surface of the shield of Athena in the Parthenon (Plin. zat. 7st. 36. 18 (cp. 35- 54) 
with Sir C. Smith’s convincing article in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1896—1897 iii. 131 ff.). 

6 E. Bethe in Pauly—Wissowa eal-Enc. v. 1091, IIIt. 

7 T. Panofka Musée Blacas Paris 1829 pl. 82 (sic: ? pl. 32). 


28—2 


436 Kastor and Polydeukes 


convention entirely devoid of mythological meaning. The contrast 
between the Dioskouroi, when they really are contrasted, goes much 
deeper than surface-colouring and is a matter of constitution and 
character. 


(e) Kastor and Polydeukes. 


Kastor and Polydeukes, for example. The /iad’, it is true, 
describes them as a pair of princely athletes buried in Lakedaimon, 
and only distinguishes Kastor the ‘tamer of horses’ from Polydeukes 
the ‘good boxer.’ The poet, in fact, conceives both to have been 
mortal men; and this early evidence might be thought to negative 
any connexion with the diurnal and nocturnal Sky. But just here 
we must walk warily. It will be remembered that in Hellenic times 
the two Spartan kings were priests of Zeus Lakedatmon and of 
Zeus Ourdnios*, that is, apparently, of Zeus in his ordinary daylight 
guise and of Zeus as god of the starry midnight sky*—the very 
sources from which, on my showing, the Dioskouroi derived their 
divinity. Further, the kings claimed descent from the twin sons of 
Aristodemos’, whose death by lightning at Naupaktos® marks him 
as a ‘Zeus-struck’ man’, Moreover, so intimately was each suc- 
cessive pair of kings related to Kastor and Polydeukes that, if both 
kings went out to battle, both the Tyndaridai went with them, and, 
if one king stayed at home, one of the Tyndaridai was left to keep 
him company*. These customs and beliefs, if I am not deceiving 
myself, suggest that in early Doric days the two kings of Sparta 
were regarded as incarnations of Polydeukes and Kastor®. The 
Homeric allusion to the heroes’ burial may well be based on hard 


1 The simplest proof of this is furnished by the fact that, on the Gigantomachy-vase 
at Paris, the chariot of Zeus has two white horses and two red, that of Ares three red and 
one white. Such variation in colour assists the eye to pick out and appreciate individual 
forms: see K. Reichhold in Furtwingler—Reichhold Gr. Vasenmalerei i. 105 ff. 

2 Tl. 3. 236—244. * dt. 6.956; 4 Supra i. 8. 

5 Paus. 3. 1. 5. P. Poralla Prosopographie der Lakedaimonier bis auf die Zett 
Alexanders des Grossen Breslau 1913 p. 137 ff. discusses the extant pedigrees. 

® Apollod. 2. 8. 2. Other versions are noted by B. Niese in Pauly—Wissowa Rea/- 
Enc. ii. 921. 

7 Supra p. 376 f. 

8 Hadt. 5. 75. See further Frazer Golden Bough*®: The Magic Art i. 48 ff., who urges 
that the Dioskouroi ‘may have been thought to accompany the march of a Spartan army 
in a visible form, appearing to the awe-stricken soldiers in the twilight or the darkness 
either as stars in the sky or as the sheen of spears on earth.’ But Herodotos’ language 
points rather to something portable, which could be taken with the troops, or left behind 
—hardly the dékana (W. W. How—J. Wells ad Zoc.), more probably the sepulchral jars 
(¢nfra Append. H med). 

* If so, no wonder that Aristomenes and his friend were able to impose on the 
Spartans by appearing to them at night on white horses with f7/oz and golden stars all 
complete (Polyain. 2. 31. 4). 


Kastor and Polydeukes 437 


fact. The Odyssey’—or, to be precise, a passage interpolated into 
the Odyssey—speaks of them in language borrowed from the //ad, 
but explains that, though buried, they were yet alive, and adds that 
even below ground by a special privilege received from Zeus they 
were living and dead on alternate days. This remarkable arrange- 
ment is set out more fully by Pindar. Writing in 474 B.c? he 
mentions the fame ‘of the mighty Castor, and of thee, king Poly- 
deucés, ye sons of the gods—ye that dwell, for one day, in the 
homes of Therapné, and, for the other, within the halls of Olympus®,’ 
And ¢. 463 B.C he says: ‘In alternate changes the twin brethren 
spend the one day beside their dear father Zeus and, the other, 
down in the hollow earth in the depths of Therapné, thus fulfilling 
an equal lot, since, when Castor was slain in war, Polydeuces 
preferred this life to being wholly a god and dwelling in heaven®.’ 
The sequel tells of their feud with Idas and Lynkeus, the sons of 
Aphareus. The quarrel was occasioned by a cattle-raid, in which 
Idas had been defrauded of the booty’. Lynkeus, gazing with his 
keen sight from Mount Taygeton, descried the Tyndaridai seated 
in the trunk of an oak’, and with his brother at once hastened to 
attack them. Idas speared Kastor. Polydeukes came to the rescue. 
Idas and Lynkeus in vain hurled at him the tomb-stone of their 
father Aphareus. Polydeukes succeeded in spearing Lynkeus. And 
Zeus, flinging a thunderbolt at Idas, consumed him and his brother 
together. Polydeukes, returning to Kastor, found him not yet dead, 
but gasping for breath. In deep distress Polydeukes prayed to 
Zeus: ‘Bid me also die, O king, with this my brother.’ Then, as 
Pindar puts it, 

‘He ceased, and before him came Zeus, and spake in this wise :—‘‘ Thou art 
my son, whereas Castor was begotten by thy mother’s husband, of mortal seed, 

1 Od. 11. 298—304. 

2 O. Schroeder ‘ Fasti Pindarici’ in his ed. 1908 p. viii, Sir J. E. Sandys in his ed. 
1915 p- 296. 

3 Pind. Pyth. 11. 93 ff. trans. Sir J. E. Sandys. 

4 O. Schroeder ‘ Fasti Pindarici’ in his ed. rg08 p. ix, Sir J. E. Sandys in his ed. 
IQt5 p- 412. 

5 Pind. Mem. 10. 103 ff. trans. Sir J. E. Sandys. 

§ See Apollod. 3. 11. 2. P. Weizsicker’s article in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 97 ff. is 
superseded by that of E. Bethe in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. v. 1113 ff., which was 
written after the discovery of the sixth-century metope from the treasury of the Sicyonians 
at Delphoi (Fowzlles de Delphes iv. 1. 24 ff., 32 pl. 4, 1, E. Bourguet Les runes de Delphes 
Paris 1914 p. 63 f. fig. 18, F. Poulsen De/phz trans. G. C. Richards London 1920 p. 86 ff. 
fig. 25, Perrot—Chipiez Hist. de /’ Art viii. 455 ff. fig. 227). 

7 Pind. Mem. to. 114 ff. dao Tairyérou medavyd|fwv Wev AuvyKeds dpvds év aredéxer | 
juévos (J. B. Bury rightly restores the Doric acc. pl. from the scholia on juevos codd. B.D. 
Aristarchos cj. 7mevov. See further zzfra p. 439 n. 1 and E. Abel Scholia vetera in 
Pindari Nemea et Isthmia Berolini 1884 p. 314 ff.). 


438 Kastor and Polydeukes 

after thine own conception. But lo! I grant thee thy full choice in this ; if thou 
desirest to escape death and grievous eld, and to dwell thyself in Olympus with 
me, and with Athéné, and with Arés of the darksome spear, thou canst have 
this lot appointed thee. But, if thou contendest for thy brother, and art minded 
to have an equal share with him in all things, then mayest thou breathe for half 
thy time beneath the earth, and for half thy time in the golden homes of heaven.” 
When thus the god had spoken, the hero had no double purpose in his heart ; 
and Zeus opened once more the eye, and then released the voice of the bronze- 
clad warrior, Castor!’ 


It has long been recognised that the interpolator of the Odyssey 
and Pindar were alike indebted to the Kyfria*, of which certain 
fragments are extant covering approximately the same ground. 
One such fragment draws the essential contrast : 


Kastor was mortal, being doomed to die, 
But Polydeukes, War’s own wight, immortal*, 


Another relates the beginning of the fray: 


And then in haste 
Lynkeus with fleet foot sought Taygeton, 
Climbed to its topmost peak, and looked abroad 
Through the whole isle of Pelops son of Tantalos. 


1 Pind. Mem. ro. 148 ff. trans. Sir J. E. Sandys. 


* F. Staehlin ‘Der Dioskurenmythus in Pindars ro. nemeischer Ode. (Ein Beispiel 


einer Mythenidealisierung.) 


in Philologus 1903 \xii. 182—195 claims to show that in 


various points Pindar is intentionally improving on the tale as told by the Aypria: 


KYPRIA 

Kastor the mortal and Polydeukes the im- 
mortal are both sons of Zeus. 

They carry off their cousins the Leukippides 
without giving bride-gifts to Leukippos. 

The Apharidai taunt the Dioskouroi with 
the rape; whereupon the Dioskouroi 
lift the cattle of the Apharidai and 
present them to Leukippos. 

The Dioskouroi hide themselves in a hollow 
oak from the pursuit of the Apharidai. 
Idas, thrusting through the oak, pierces 
Kastor. 

Polydeukes therefore slays Lynkeus. Idas 
with the s¢é/e of Aphareus all but slays 
Polydeukes. 

Zeus helps Polydeukes by killing Idas with 
a thunderbolt. 


But see Gruppe A/yth. Lit. 1908 p. 482 f. 





PINDAR 
Only Polydeukes is the son of Zeus. 


The rape of the Leukippides is omitted. 
Only Kastor is concerned with the cattle- 


raid. 


The Apharidai basely attack Kastor, while 
he is seated (juevov) on a stump of oak. 


Idas and Lynkeus with the s¢ée of Aphareus 
attempt to stop Polydeukes, but fail. 


Polydeukes slays Lynkeus, and would have 
slain Idas, had not Zeus, to honour 
Polydeukes, hurled the fatal bolt. 


3 Cypria frag. 5 Kinkel af. Clem. Al. protr. 2. 30. 5 p. 22, 22 ff. Stahlin Kaorwp 
bev Ovnrds, Gaydrov O€é of aica mémpwrac (H. Kochly cj. rémpwro)* | avrap 6 7 dbdvaros 
Ilodvdevxns, 6fos “Apnos. The concluding phrase does not, of course, imply that Poly- 
deukes was the son of Ares: see H. Ebeling Lexicon Homericum Lipsiae 1880 ii. 31. 
Supra i. 279. 


Kastor and Polydeukes 439 


Right soon the noble hero keen of eye 

Saw both of them inside a hollow oak, 
Horse-taming Kastor, prizeman Polydeukes. 
Then drew he near and smote the mighty oak}. 


A later author likewise much beholden to the Xyfrza was the 
enigmatic Lykophron—witness the following extract from his 
Alexandra’: 


One? with his cornel striking hollow trunk 

Of a black oak* shall slaughter one® of twain, 

To wit the lion® pitted ’gainst the bull’. 

The other® with his lance shall rip the flank 

O’ the bull® and bear him groundwards. Yet once more 
The dauntless ram? shall butt him!!, brandishing 
The glory of the Amyclaean tomb. 

Howbeit bronze” and far-flung thunderbolts 

Shall slay both bulls together, one of whom 
By doughty deeds had satisfied enow 

The god of Skias, Orchia, Tilphossa, 

What time he™ bent his horn and fought his fight. 
The one pair Hades, but the other Olympos 

Shall welcome guestlike on alternate days, 

Mortal immortals, saved by brotherly love!®. 


Now we may be very sure that the original explanation of the 
Twins’ in-and-out career was not, as Pindar and Lykophron would 


1 Cypria frag. 9 Kinkel ap. schol. Pind. Mem. to. 114 6 perv "Aptorapxos déot ypdgew 
‘* nuevov,” ako\ovdws TH év Tots Kumpious Neyouéry ioropia’ 6 yap Ta Kvmpia cuyypayas 
gonoi tov Kaoropa év ry Sput xpupbévra dpOfvac bd AvyKéws* 77 O€ arn ypagy Kai ’Amod- 
NOdwpos (3.11. 2) KaTnKoAovAnoe. mpds ots Pyat Alduuos* augorépwy bo TH Spt Nox wvTwr, 
tod te Kaoropos kal rod Todvdevxous, udvov 6 AvyKeds Tov Kaoropa eide (M. Schmidt cj. 
dvethe); untote ovv pyar Sety dvaywwoKe Thy mapadnyoucay cu\NaBHy déuTévws ‘ Nuevos” 
ws npuévos a Kar’ augoty axodnrac* i5e (so T. Mommsen for 0 dé) Avyxeds dpvds év 
oTeNéxet Huevos, avtl Tod Nuévous, SnNovdre Tos AcocKovpous* ws deANOtros Kal Tpizros* [ovxX 
€dos éori, yepaé (//. 11. 648), avr Tod ovx edovs.] maparifevrar dé kal Tov Ta Kimpia 
ypawvarra otirw Néyovra’ ‘Sativa dé Avyxeds | Thiyerov mpocéBaie rocly raxéeror retrorO us. | 
axpotatrov 6’ dvaBas diedépxeto vijcov amacay | Taytadidov (W. Ribbeck cj. Tavradliew) 
Ilé\oros, taxa 5’ eiorde Kvduuos Nows | Sewvots dPOapoicw ~ow Spvds dudw Koidns, | Kaoropa 
@ immddapov Kal deOopdpoy IlodvdevKea, | vise 6 dp’ ayxu oTas meyadny Spiv” Kal ra 
e&js. 6 ev oiv Kaorwp éddxa Tov "Idav, pyolv, év Koiin Sput xpupOeis Kai Tov Avyxéa. 
6 6é AuyKeds d€vdepkhs ay, wore Kal 61d NOwy Kal dud yis TA ywoueva Bre, lSwy dia THs 
dpuos Tov Kdoropa érpwoe Nyx. amd yap TOD Spous mepicxoTav 6 Avyxeds EVedaaro avrovs 
éyxabefouévous év areéxer Spvds kal éMNoxGvras. Tov yap AvyKéws brép wavTas avOpwrrous 
dévTaTov nv TO Guwa. See also Tzetz. chil. 2. 710—716 and iz Lyk. Ad. 511. 


2 Lyk. Al. 553—566. 3 Tdas. 

+ 6 pev kpaveia Kotdov odrdoas atimros | pyyod KeNaw is K.T.D. 

> Kastor. 6 Kastor. 7 Tdas. 8 Polydeukes. 
9 Tdas. LOsTdas. 11 Polydeukes. 

12 The spear of Polydeukes, which slew Lynkeus. 13 Tdas and Lynkeus. 
4 Tdas, when Apollon fought him for Marpessa. 16 Apollon. 


16 rods 6° “OAGumioe wAdKes | wap’ juap alel deEcoovTae E€vous, | Piravdoualuous, apdl- 
Tous Te Kal POirous. 


44.0 Romulus and Remus 


have us believe, sheer brotherly affection. The notion is edifying, 
but not primitive. Rather, the alternate life was a fifth-century? 
improvement upon the harsh contrast of a mortal Kastor with an 
immortal Polydeukes. And this contrast is best regarded as a 
simple but graphic expression of the obvious fact that the divine 
Sky is half dark, half bright. The Tyndaridai inherited the essential 


duality of their sire, and at Sparta were appropriately embodied 
in a double line of kings. 


(€) Romulus and Remus. 


Proto-Doric institutions presumably have an Illyrian ancestry 
behind them, and may be expected to have left their traces in Italy 
as well as in Greece®. At Rome, for instance’, there seems to have 
been a definite and persistent tendency towards a dual kingship. 
Romulus and Remus—whatever the precise history of their names 
—were certainly conceived as a pair of royal twins. According to 
one version of their legend, they reigned with equal rights over 
their rustic subjects’. According to another, Romulus after the 
death of Remus was bidden by an oracle to place a curule seat for 
him with sceptre, crown, etc. in order that the two brothers might 
still appear to be associated in the government®. A curious ampli- 


1 Cp. Eur. Hel. 137 f. EA. of Tuvddpeco 6’ elolv 7 ov elolvy Kdpo.; | TEYK. reOvaou 
kod TeOvaor dto 5 éordv oyw. Cp. later e.g. Min. Fel. Oct. 22. 7 Castores alternis 
moriuntur ut vivant. 

2 Supra p. 340 ff. Sir James Frazer points out to me (Aug. 14, 1918) that the octennial 
tether of the Spartan kings and the periodic test to which they were subjected (Golden 
Bough*: The Dying God p. 58f., Spirits of Corn and Wild i. 82, 85) fit in well with my 
hypothesis of them as sky-powers incarnate. It is interesting to find that the Illyrians had 
the same eight-year cycle (Strab. 315 téuov 6é rav Aaduaréwy 76 did dxraeTnpidos Xwpas 
avadacpov tovetoOar with G. Dottin Les anciens peuples de l’ Europe Paris 1916 p. 154). 

3 I have pursued the subject further in Fo/k-Lore 1905 xvi. 300 f. 

4 On this intricate problem see Th. Mommsen ‘ Die Remuslegende’ in Hermes 1881 
xvi. I—23, P. Kretschmer ‘ Remus und Romulus’ in Glotta 1909 i. 288—-303, W. Soltau 
‘"PdSuos und Remus’ in Phz/ologus 1909 Ixvill, 154—157, 2d. ‘ Die Entstehung der Romulus- 
legende’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1g09 xii. 101—125, J. B. Carter in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iv. 
164 ff., Liibker Readllex.® p. 896 f., Rosenberg in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i A. 597 f., 
1074 ff. 

> L. Cassius Hemina (not before 146 B.c.) frag. 11 Peter af. Diomed. art. gramm. 1 
(in H. Keil Grammatict Latini Lipsiae 1857 i. 384, 3 ff.) pastorum vulgus sine con- 
tentione consentiendo praefecerunt aequaliter imperio Remum et Romulum, ita ut de 
regno pararent inter se (so J. F. Gronovius for parent inter se codd. A.B.M. and cod. 
Scioppii, pares inter se essent editiones interpolatae). Cp. schol. Bob. zz Cic. Vatzn. 23 
p- 119, 3 ff. Hildebrandt: primumque sex vultures Remum vidisse, dein postea Romulum 
duodecim, atque ita et Romam conditam et ipsos reges appellatos: illum, quod prior 
auspicium cepisset, Romulum vero, quod maius. See, however, Th. Mommsen Joc. cit. 
p- 20 n. 5. 

8 Serv. iz Verg. Aen. 1. 276 (cp. Serv. 2 Verg. Aen. 6. 780). S. Eitrem in the 
Class. Rev. 1921 xxxv. 20 well compares the two crowns set out on the couch depicted 
in the Zomba del Letto funebre at Corneto (zfra Append. N). 


Romulus and Remus A441 


fication of the tale related that Romulus, obeying the Pythia, had 
a golden bust made from the features of Remus, set it as a statue 
on his brother’s throne, and ever afterwards reigned with this efigy 
of gold beside him; he also sent golden busts of himself and his 
brother to be installed beside the magistrates of all towns under 
the Roman sway. Hence (says our authority?) the still prevalent 
use of the royal ‘we’! Again, the tradition that Romulus later 
ruled conjointly with Titus Tatius the Sabine suggests conformity 
with the custom of a dual kingship. No doubt, the absorption of 
foreign elements into the Roman state prevented the unbroken 
continuity of that égzme. But, when the Tarquins were driven out, 
the same ancient principle reasserted itself and possessed sufficient 





Fig. 340. Fig. 341. 


vitality to produce ‘the double consulship, if not also the ultimate 
duplication of the titles Caesar and Augustus?. There was a certain 
dramatic fitness in the belief that the battle of Lake Regillus, which 
sealed the fate of monarchy for the next five centuries, was won by 
the help of the great twin brethren Castor and Pollux. Even when 
the republic developed into the empire, the beneficent influence of 
twins, at once human and divine, was not forgotten. Tiberius was 
overjoyed when in 19 A.D. Livia or Livilla, the sister of Germanicus, 
bore to Drusus Caesar the twins Tiberius and Germanicus*. A 
large brass of Drusus Caesar, struck in 23 A.D., has for obverse 
design (fig. 340)4 the busts of the two boys emerging from cornua 
copiae to right and left of a winged caduceus. The significance of 


2 To. Malal. chron. 7 p. 172 Dindorf. 4 

2 The facts, concisely stated e.g. by K. J. Neumann in Pauly—Wissowa Xeal-LEnc. iii. 
1287, are of course open to other interpretations than that here given. 

3 Tac. ann. 2. 84. H. Furneaux (ed.? Oxford 1896) cites Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no, 2630 


(Famagusta, near Salamis in Kypros) [- ------- jee apxvepéws] | dea Blov, 
atrod [re kal r&v] | dudvuwy vidv A[podcou,] | TiBepiov kat Tepuavixod, | yuuvacidpxwy 
Trav --] | [------- ]and provides a stemma (of. cit. p. 165). 


4 Rasche Lex. Num. ii. 1001, iii. 463 ff., Suppl. ii. 144, 671, Morell. Thes. Num. 
Imp. Rom. i. 519 pl. 9, 7—9, Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins p. 289 fig., 
p- 349 f., Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” i. 217 no. 1. I figure a specimen in my collection. 


442 Romulus and Remus 


the type is clear, for it recurs on gold and copper (fig. 341) coins of 
Antoninus Pius, struck in 149 A.D., with the inscription TEMPORVM 
FELICITAS, ‘the Luck of the Times!’ Again, Nero Caesar and 
Drusus Caesar, sons of Germanicus by the elder Agrippina’, though 





Fig. 343. 


not actually twins—since one was born in 6, the other in 7 A.D.,— 
are represented on second brasses, struck under Caligula in 37 
(fig. 342)* and 40 A.D., as a pair of youthful horsemen closely re- 
sembling the iiecicoucet (fig. 343)*. Oddly enough both types, the 





\ 
Sa \ 
“ 





ococtug, = 
A “Con \ 





Fig. 344. Fig. 345. Fig. 346. 


cornua copiae and the horsemen, were imitated on bronze pieces 
issued in Kommagene and Lakanatis c. 72 A.D. by Antiochos iv to 
honour his sons Epiphanes and Kallinikos (figs. 344 and 345)°. 


1 Rasche Lex. Mum. ii. 1001, 1x. gor f., Suppl. ii. 144, Stevenson—Smith—Madden 
Dict. Rom. Coins p. 782, Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” ii. 350 nos. 811, 812 fig. gold; 
813 first brass, 814 second brass, 815 (dated 157 A.D.) first brass. These coins probably 
commemorate the birth of a son, T. Aelius Antoninus, in 147 A.D. and that of a second 
daughter, Annia Lucilla, c. 148 A.D. to the future emperor Marcus Aurelius and his wife 
the younger Faustina (s¢emma by P. von Rohden in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2289 f.). 

2 Stemma by H. Furneaux of. cit. p. 163. 

3 Rasche Lex. Mum. iii. 469f., v. 1253 f., Morell. Zhes. Num. Imp. Rom. i. 540 f. 
pl. 16 4, 1—3, 5 f., Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins pp. 350, 572 fig., 
Cohen Monn. emp. rom." i. 234 no. 1 (37 A.D.) fig., nos. 2f. (40 A4.D.). Fig. 342 is from 
a specimen of the earlier date in my collection. 

4 From a denarius, of 268 B.C. or later, given to me by Dr Rendel Harris (cp. Paijclin 
Monn. rép. rom. i. 39 no. 2 fig., G. F. Hill Aestorical Roman Coins London 1909 pp. 27; 
33f- pl. 9, 13). 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Galatia, etc. pp. xlviif., 110 f. pl. 15, 5 (=my fig. 345 
BALCIAEQL YIOI) and 6 (traces of BACIAEMC YIOLI, cp. E. Babelon Bibdiothéeque 
Nationale, Catalogue: Les Rois de Syrie, d’Arménie et de Commagéne Paris 1890 p. 223 
no. 45), Hunter Cat. Coins iii. 123 pl. 71,5 (BACIAEMC [Y]IO1) and 6 (=my fig. 344 


BACIAE Q.CYIOI), Anson Mum. Gr. v. 89 nos. 595 pl. 14, 597 pl. 25. 


Romulus and Remus 443 


Leake, @ propos of a unique specimen in his collection (fig. 346), 
shrewdly remarks: ‘Epiphanes and Callinicus, sons of Antiochus, 
as Dioscuri!” Assimilation to the Dioskouroi is yet more marked 
on gold, silver, and copper (fig. 347) coins of Faustina the younger?, 





' Fig. 347. Fig. 348. 
which show L. Aurelius Commodus and Antoninus, the twins born 
of the empress in 161 A.D.*, sitting on one and the same throne-like 


couch encircled by the legend SAECVLI FELICIT(AS), ‘the Luck of 
the Age.’ The design is obviously intended to recall the Theovénza* 





or /ectesterntum® of the heavenly Twins—witness the two stars, 
which on many examples (fig. 348) are seen glittering above the 
infants’ heads. Finally, coppers of the post-Constantinian period 
often portray Romulus and Remus, the prototypes of all these 


1 W. M. Leake A Supplement to Numismata Hellenica London 1859 p. 6. Fig. 346 
is from the coin, now in the Fitzwilliam Museum at Cambridge. The rev. is inscribed 
[BJAZIAEQS ANTIOXOY. 

2 Rasche Lex. Num. vii. 1515 f., Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dact. Rom. Coins 
Pp: 507 fig., p. 708 (‘Commodus and Antoninus, whom Faustina brought forth at one birth, 
are here dedicated in’ worship to the Dioscuri (Castor and Pollux)’), Cohen J/onz. emp. 
rom.” iil. 152 no. 189 gold, nos. tg0—192 silver, no. 193 f. copper, R. Ratto Catalogo di 
monete greche e imperiali romane Milano 1911 p. 93 nos. 1039 f. copper. Figs. 347 and 
348 are from two specimens in my collection. 

3 For stemma see supra p. 442 N. I. 

4 Infra Append. H med. 

5 Infra Append. N. 


444 Zetes and Kalais 


princely twins, themselves surmounted by the same Dioscuric 
device (figs. 349—351)}. 

Whether the dyarchy of the Phoenician s#fetes? was similarly 
related to a cult of Phoenician Twins, is a question more easily 
asked than answered. Jn any case it need not here detain us. 


(n) Zetes and Kalais. 


Confining ourselves to the Greek area, we note that Kastor and 
-Polydeukes were not the only pair of Twins differentiated out of 
the divine Sky. Boreas, the bifrontal? wind-god of Thrace, whom 
we have already compared with Zeus‘, became by Oreithyia, 
daughter of Erechtheus, the father of two winged sons, Zetes and 
Kalais’. Their names were explained by the ancients as alluding 
to foul and fair weather respectively: Zétes was rendered ‘ Very 
Blowy, Blustery,’ and Kd/ais, ‘Fair-blowing®’ The former ety- 
mology might indeed pass muster’, but the latter is impossible®. 
Rather we should suppose that Ad/azs was the Thracian equivalent 
of the Phrygian Kadads, father of Attes®. Be that as it may, 


1 Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins p. 914 fig. (=my fig. 349), Cohen 
Monn. emp. rom. vi. 178 f. no. 7 pl. 4 (=my fig. 351), 2b. vii. 322 n. 1, 330f. nos. 15 fig., 
16 fig., 17—21, 22 fig. Fig. 350 is from a specimen in my collection: PLG=fercussum 
Lugdunt, or pecunia Lugdunensis. Cp. Rasche Lex. Num. iv. 1888 ‘supra lupam duo 
astra, fausti ominis ergo, vti Castor et Pollux repraesentare (szc) solent.’ 

2 Liibker Reallex.® p. 998. 3 Supra p. 380. 

4 Supra i. 142 N. 10, il. 444. 

> Simonid. frag. 3 Bergk* af. schol. Ap. Rhod. 1. 211 f. and Eudok. viol. 1021, Ap. 
Rhod. r. 211 f., Apollod. 3. 15. 2, Orph. Avg. 218 ff., Ov. met. 6. 702 ff., Hyg. fad. 14, 
Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 3. 209, 10. 350, Myth. Vat. 1. 26, 1. 27, I. 204, 2- 142, Cp. 3. 5. 5. 

6 Et. Gud. p. 231, 40 ff. Znrns, 6 vids Boppa...mapa ro fa Kal 7d rréw, 6 meyddws mvéwv- 
HTo Tapa Td spodpov Tod Bopéov Kal weyadorvody. vids yap Tod Boppa, et. mag. p. 411, 4 ff. 
Znrns* 0 vios Boppa... Zanrns, mapa ro fa kal To anrys, 6 weyddws mvéwy* vids yap éort TOD 
Boppa, schol. Pind. Pyth. 4. 324 Zjrav Kddaty re oiovel LZanrny, 6 éorw adyav dovra xal 
mvéovtTa, Kal Kaatvy olov kah@s dovra, Eustath. 7 Od. p. 1547, 15f. 0 wey olovel fanrns 
5 €ore opodpos anrns Boppas, 6 dé kaddv 7) dkaddv Hyouv Hovxov dnua Bopéov dniady. Myth. 
Vat. 2. 142, 3. 5. 6 derive absurdly from (yr@y caddy. O. Schroeder in the Ber?. philol. 
Woch. Juli 9, 1898 p. 868 assumes connexion with ¢nréw, which is disputed by Gruppe 
Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 560 n. 5. 

7 Gruppe Joc. cet. finds a difficulty in the Doric Zdras (Zuscr. Gr. Sic. It. no. 1293 A 
89f. kal Zdrav kat | Kddaw [viv] Bopéa rod Opackds | x.7.d.). But the crucial vowel is 
uncertain (G. Kaibel in Juser, Gr. Sic. It, loc. cit. prints Z.TAN P. Victorius read 
ZATAN, Leo Allatius and F. Bianchini SATAN, L. Stephani ...AN) and in any case 
might be a hyperdorism. Boisacq Dzct. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 306 regards the 
Homeric {ays as dissimilated from *{nys (fa- + *awé- of dnuc). It is tempting to connect 
Hesych. (dec... kal mve?. Kérpio with Znrjp* Zed(s) év Kimpw ; but see zzfra Append. M. 

8 Since the -a- of Kdddis could scarcely represent -a7- ! 

® Paus. 7. 17. 9. Cp. F. Bechtel Die historischen Personennamen des Griechischen bis 
zur Kaiserzett Halle a.d.S. 1917 p. 573. Note also Hesych. Kad)ais: yévos iOaryevav 
(a passage to which Mr J. Whatmough drew my attention). We can hardly connect 


Herakles and Iphikles 445 


H. Usener justly observed that these twins attest the twofold 
nature (Doppelseitigkezt) of their father’. 


(@) Zethos and Amphion. 


Zétes can hardly be separated from Zéthos*, whose twin brother 
Amphton bore a name again indicative of a twofold father®. That 
father, whether Zeus or Epopeus—for the two were one*—, was a 
sky-god, whose diverse aspects found mythological expression in 
the diverse characters of his children, Zethos the stern hunter and 
herdsman, Amphion the milder and more civilised musician®, 


(c) Herakles and Iphikles. 


Somewhat similar is the relation of Herakles to his less valiant 
brother Iphikles*. It is even possible that this pair of twins was 
originally conceived as a single dicephalous god’. S. Reinach 
among his miscellaneous types of Herakles has recently included 
a bronze statuette in the Museum at Sens, which represents a two- 
headed personage with a curved knife(?) or club(??) in one hand 
and an apple(?) in the other (fig. 352)% A. Héron de Villefosse 


Kadnais with xd\(A)ais, ‘turquoise’ (Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. iv. 860 D—862 C), though 
Hyg. fad. 14 says that Zetes and Kalais had ‘crines,..caeruleos.’ 

1-H. Usener ‘ Zwillingsbildung’ in the Strena Helbigiana Leipzig—Berlin 1900 p. 329 
(=7d. Kleine Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 1913 iv. 351 f.). /d. 2b. n. 57 quotes an interesting 
Lithuanian parallel from M. Pratorius Dedéctae Prussicae oder Preussische Schaubiihne 
ed. W. Pierson Berlin 1871 p. 27: ‘Pratorius...berichtet ; ‘‘ Mir fallt ein, was ich einsmahls 
bey einem Fischer in dem Dorf Karckel gesehen. Derselbe hat anstatt der Fahnen auf 
den Mast seines Bootes eine s¢atwam beim Ruder (d. h, dem Steuerruder) aufgerichtet. 
Er hatte nemblich von Borken gemacht ein Bild eines Menschen, dass am Kopf zween 
Gesichter, eins vornen, eins hinten waren, an beyden aber war das Maul aufgesperret (der 
Wind wird also aus dem Mund geblasen); an den Schultern waren zween ziemlich grosse 
Fliigel, daneben er seine Hinde ausgestrecket, die rechte aufwarts, die linke erdwarts ; in 
der linken hielt er einen Fisch, in der rechten ein Fasschen. Auf dem Haupt war ein 
Hahn gemacht. Das bildt nente er Wejopatis (Herr des Windes).”” Es wird noch 
hinzugefiigt, dass der Pfarrer des Ortes diesen Fischer ‘‘ vor einen recht alten preussischen 
Heyden” gehalten habe, der nicht zu bewegen war, die Kirche zu besuchen, dass man 
ihn aber fiir den reichsten Fischer ansah. Man méchte vermuten, dass das Doppelgesicht 
den wentus secundus und aduersus bedeutete.’ 

2 The two names are confused in Palaiph. 22 (23) Z#@os kat Kadais (where A. Wester- 
mann restored Zjrys) and Serv. iz Verg. Aen. 10. 350 a Zetho et Calai (so G. Thilo: 
H. A. Lion prints Zefo). 

The ancients derived Z790s from ¢nréw (Eur. Antiop. frag. 181 Nauck” af. et. Gud. 
p- 230, 55 ff. and et. mag. p. 411, 12 ff., cp. Hyg. fad. 7) or Saw (et. Gud. p. 230, 54 f., 
et. mag. p. 411, 11f.). K. B. Stark MWiobe und die Niobiden in ihrer literarischen, 
hkiinstlerischen und mythologischen Bedeutung Leipzig 1863 p. 367 connects with ¢éw. 

3 Infra Append. J. 4 Supra i. 734 ff. 

H. W. Stoll in Roscher Zex. Myth. i. 310f. 

H. W. Stoll in Roscher Zex. Myth. ii. 305. 

For the case of Kteatos and Eurytos see supra i. 311,'¢nfra Append. F (:). 

Reinach Bronzes Figurés p. 199 no. 178 fig. (=my fig. 352), td. Rep. Stat. iv. 135 
no. 4. Height o7o9g6™. 


ona a 


446 Herakles and Iphikles 


was disposed to think this queer customer spurious and Reinach 
accordingly labels him ‘ Suspect.’ Without 
careful examination of the original one 
would not venture to decide. But it re- 
minds me of the copper coins struck under 
Septimius Severus at Baris (/sbarta, Sparta) 
on the Kestros in Pisidia, which portray 
a double-headed deity, with two or four 
arms!, clad in a lion-skin and grasping 
bow and club (figs. 354, 355)? or bow, 
club, and sword (fig. 356)%. D. Sestini in 
1828 mistook him for a group of Herakles 
; and Hephaistos*. J. Friedlander in 1879 
Fig. 352. was the first to recognise in him ‘eznen 





1 Cp. a bronze statuette from Teti in Sardinia (Perrot—Chipiez /7s¢. de 7’ Art iv. 65 f. 
fig. 51=my fig. 353) representing a warrior with four arms, four eyes in his head, and 





Fig. 353- 


apparently other eyes on his arms: he carries two swords and two round shields. Height 
fou rg™. 

2 A. Lobbecke in the Zettschr. f. Mum. 1890 xvii. 13 pl. 2, 3 (=my fig, 354): obv. 
AY-K-A-CEM:CEYHOC-TTEP: bust of Septimius Severus; ev. BAPHNOLN 
double-headed male figure advancing to right, with club in right hand and bow in left, 
on which a bird seems to be perched. Round his shoulders is flung a lion-skin. ‘ LOwenhaut 
und Keule...deuten auf Herakles.’ 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lycia, etc. pp. cx, 207 pl. 34, 2 (my fig. 356 was drawn 
from a cast of the coin, kindly sent to me by Mr G. F. Hill): odv. AVTKAIACETI- 
CEOVHPOCTIEP.. bust of Septimius Severus; 7ev. BAPH NOLN double-headed, 
four-armed male figure advancing to right, with heads looking different ways, bow and 
club held to right, sword to left, and lion-skin slung behind. 

4D. Sestini Descrézione delle medaglie antiche greche del museo Hedervariano Firenze 
1828 ii. 268 pl. 22, 5 (=my fig. 355): ‘ Hercules et Vulcanus in unum corpus colligati... 


The effeminate Twin 44.7 


gedoppelten Herakles; a view provisionally accepted by G. F. Hill 
(1897)? and B. V. Head (1911)*% 





ig. 


355- 





FE 
(x) The effeminate Twin. 


And here we must notice a suggestion thrown out long since 
by that pioneer of mythological study F. L. W. Schwartz‘. He 
held that the contrast between the doughty hero and the weak- 
ling was'‘a commonplace of Indo-Europaean saga® to be compared 
with the sozf of the emasculated sky-god. Now I am not prepared 
to follow our ingenious author, when he hazards the conjecture 
that Kastor was named after £dstor, the ‘beaver’, and recalls 
the belief that this rodent gets rid of its pursuers by tearing off 
its own testicles’. Nor can I agree with him, when he interprets 
the mutilation of Ouranos by Kronos’, or that of Kronos by 


utraque manu arcum paratum tenet, supra quem insistit avis stymphalis.’ Hence Mionnet 
Descr. de méd. ant. Suppl. vii. 111 no. 131. 

1 J. Friedlaender in the Zeitschr. f. Num. 1879 vi. 17 f. described, but did not figure, 
a specimen now at Berlin, the reverse of which is from the same die as the reverse of 
Sestini’s coin. 

2 G. F. Hill in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lycia, etc. pp. cx, 322. 

3 Head Hist. num.” p. 707. 

4 F. L. W. Schwartz Der Ursprung der Mythologie Berlin 1860 p. 138 ff. 

5 Jd. tb. p. 147 cites Herakles and Iphikles, Agamemnon and Menelaos, Hektor and 
Paris, Siegfried and Gunther. 

8 So, from a different point of view, does J. Rendel Harris Boanerges Cambridge 1913 
pp- 296, 302 f., 310. I am not concerned to deny the possibility, and even the attractive- 
ness, of this derivation. Only, it seems to me that the evidence produced in support of it 
is inadequate. 

7 See e.g. M. Wellmann in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 4oo0f., O. Keller Dre 
antike Tierwelt Leipzig tgog p. 188. 

8 Hes. theog. 154 ff. (Gaia, angry with Ouranos because he hated their offspring and 
would not let them see the light, produced grey adamant, made a sickle of it, and bade 
her children take vengeance on their father. Kronos, her youngest son, alone dared the 
deed. Gaia gave him the jagged Advfe and hid him in an ambush. Then came great 
Ouranos, bringing night, and spread himself above Gaia. Kronos reached forth his hand, 
shore off his father’s genitals with the dre, and flung them from the land into the sea. 
The bloody drops, falling upon Gaia, gave rise to Erinyes, Gigantes, and the nymphs 


448 The effeminate Twin 


Zeus!, or that of Zeus by Typhon*, as meaning merely that the 


called Meliai. The genitals tossing on the deep caused the white foam, aphrés, amid 
which Aphrodite was reared), 472, Antim. frag. 35 Kinkel af, Plout. guaestt. Rom. 42, 
Apollod. 1. 1. 4, Ov. /ézs 273 f. with schol. ad /oc., Cornut. theol. 7 p. 7, 17 ff. Lang, 
Tert. ad nat. 2. 12, Arnob. adv. nat. 4. 24, Aug. de civ. Det 7.19, Macrob. Satz. 1. 8. 6 ff., 
alih, The Phaiakes were sprung from the drops let fall by Ouranos (Alkaios frag. 116 
Bergk* and Akousilaos frag. 29 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 103 Miiller) af. schol. Ap. Rhod. 4. 
992, where T. Bergk cj. ’AXxuav for ’Adkaios). Phaiakia or Korkyra is called Aperavy 
(Aristot. /rag. 469 Rose a. Steph. Byz. s.v. Zxepla, cp. schol. Ap. Rhod. 4. 983; Kallim. 
frag. 554 Schneider af. Plin. wat. hist. 4. 52) or Apéravov (Tzetz. ix Lyk. Al. 762 and 
869) or “Aprn (Lyk. AZ. 761 f. with schol. ad Joc.) because the dpémavoy used by Kronos 
to mutilate Ouranos, or by Zeus to mutilate Kronos, lies buried beneath it (Timaios frag. 
54 (frag. hist. Gr. i. 203 Miiller) a. schol. Ap. Rhod. 4. 983: Ap. Rhod. 4. 982 ff. and 
et. mag. p. 287, 31 f. make Kronos the agent, Lyk. AZ. 761 f. and Tzetz. zz Lyk. AZ. 762, 
869 make him the patient), though others referred these names to the dpémavoy (schol. 
Ap. Rhod. 4. 983, e¢. mag. p. 287, 33 ff.) or dpmn of Demeter (Ap. Rhod. 4. 986 ff.). 
ZLaykdn (Steph. Byz. s.v.) or Apémavoy in Sicily (e¢. mag. p. 287, 35 ff., Serv. 7 Verg. 
Aen. 3. 707, cp. Macrob. Sa¢. 1. 8. 12. Lyk. Al. 869 calls it dpmns Kpévouv ndnua: see 
C. von Holzinger ad /oc.) and Apémavoy in Achaia (Paus. 7. 23. 4) were likewise con- 
nected with the sickle of Kronos ; Apézavoy (et. mag. p. 287, 38 f.) or Aperdvy in Bithynia, 
with that of Zeus (Steph. Byz. s.v. Aperdyy, citing the anonymous line Aperdvyy xdelovow 
amd Kpovidao odypov). On the fish roumidos, which together with Aphrodite sprang éx 
Tod ovpavlov aluaros (Athen, 282 F: cp. pervig. Ven. g cruore de superno), see Gruppe 
Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1351 n. 1. 

1 According to the Rhapsodic theogony of the Orphists (¢c. 500 B.c.?), Zeus at the 
advice of Nyx made Kronos drunk on honey, bound him beneath the tall oaks, and gelded 
him on the spot (z7fra § 3 (c) i (v) and Append. G med.). Cp. Timaios frag. 54 (supra 
n. 0), Lyk. A/. 761 f. (supra n. 0), Lyd. de mens. 4. 64 p. 116, 21 ff. Wiinsch (Aphrodite 
born dé rév Kpdvou undéwy, rovréatw dd Tod ai@vos), Myth. Vat. 1. 105 Juppiter adultus, 
quum Saturnus quodam die ad usum corporis exiret (?a mythological travesty derived 
from the comic stage), illato cultro amputavit naturalia ejus, quae in mare projecit, ex 
quibus Venus nata est; et mox Juppiter patrem regno expulit, 3. 1. 7 habent quoque 
fabulae, vel hunc (sc. Saturnum) patris sui Caeli virilia abscidisse, et abscissa in mare 
jecisse, et ex ipsorum cruore spumaque maris Venerem natam esse; vel ipsum a filio 
castratum fuisse, et de ipsius itidem virilibus, in mare missis, Venerem provenisse. de 
hac tamen diversitate nonnisi idem sentimus; testiculique utriuslibet abscissi fructus 
naturales, quos tempora producunt, teste Fulgentio (Fulgent. my¢/. 1. 2), designant, etc., 
schol. cod. G. Ov. /éis 273 Saturnus Caelo patri suo genitalia amputauit (patri suo Caelo 
uirilia abscidit ne alium filium generaret cod. C. caelo patri abscidit uirilia cod. Ash.), 
unde Calixto (Promptius uel Calmethes cod. C. callisthenes cod. Ask. R. Ellis cj. Pro- 
percius uel Callisthenes): Saturnus credens unum laesisse parentem, | tres, non tantum 
unum laeserat ille patrem. | non impune tamen, nam parte est laesus eadem, | poenamque 
a nato quam dedit ipse tulit. | peccat uterque male (szc), sed cum male peccat uterque (malis 
male sed cum uterque cod. C. male ille male hic male peccat uterque cod. 4sz.), | hic 
peccat peius qui prius illa (ista codd. C. Ask.) facit. | credere uix ausim esse deos; me 
ijudice nempe | tam male qui peccat nec deus est nec homo. : 

2 The story has come down to us in two different settings. (1) Apollod. 1.6.3: When 
the gods had vanquished the Gigantes, Ge in anger consorted with Tartaros, and brought 
forth in Kilikia Typhon the most monstrous of all her children. Down to the waist he 
was human in shape, but big enough to overtop the mountains; his head often touched 
the stars; his hands reached the east and the west, and from them started a hundred 
snaky heads. Below the waist he had serpentine coils that reared and hissed. There were 
wings all over his body, bristly hair on his head and cheeks, fire in his eyes. He attacked 
heaven with hissing and shouting, as he hurled rocks and breathed out fire. The gods on 


The effeminate Twin 449 


storm-god, cut by the rainbow-sickle, showers down the lightning 


seeing him fled to Egypt, where they transformed themselves into various animals (sapra 
i. 370 n. I, 445, 675). While Typhon was afar off, Zeus flung thunderbolts at him (22/ra 
§ 3 (c) iv (a)). When Typhon drew nigh, Zeus scared him with a Aarge of adamant 
and pursued him to Mt Kasion in Syria. Seeing that he was wounded, Zeus then came 
to close quarters. But Typhon, casting his coils about the god, caught him, wrested the 
harpe from him, and cut the sinews of his hands and feet. He lifted Zeus on his shoulders 
and carried him through the sea to Kilikia, where he deposited him in the Corycian Cave. 
The sinews he hid in the skin of a bear and stored them there with Delphyne, half-snake, 
half-woman, to guard them. However, Hermes and Aigipan contrived to steal the sinews, 
and fitted them on to Zeus again (Tudwy 5€ rats orelpars mepimdex Gels karéoxev abrdv, Kal 
Thy apwnv mepreNduevos Ta Te TOY XEtpOv Kai moday diéreue vedpa, dpduevos Oé éml TOV Guwr 
Ovexducoev arov dia THs Oaddoons els Kidixlav kal mapedOcw eis TO Kwpiixcov dvtpov KaréGeto. 
ouolws dé kal Ta vedpa KpU Was ev dpKrou dopa KeiO. dmébero, kai karéatyoe PiAaka Aedpiyyny 
Opdxawav* nulOnp dé nv atrn 7 Kdpn. “Eputs 6€ cal Alyirrav éxx\éWartes Ta vedpa npwooar 
T@ Aut Naddvres). Thus Zeus, having recovered his strength, suddenly appeared in the 
sky on a chariot drawn by winged horses. Brandishing his bolts, he pursued Typhon to 
Mt Nysa. Here the monster was deceived by the Moirai; for, believing that it would 
increase his strength, he tasted of mortal fruit. Pursued further to Thrace, he carried on 
the fight round Mt Haimos and hurled whole mountains at Zeus. But the thunderbolt 
forced these mountains back upon him, till he deluged the range with his blood (Aluos 
from aiua). He essayed to escape through the Sicilian sea. But Zeus finally crushed him 
beneath Mt Aitne, from which the fiery blasts of the thunderbolts that were flung can still 
be seen to issue. 

(2) Nonn. Dzon. t. 137 ff.—2. 712: Zeus, enamoured of Plouto (szpra i. 156), had 
hidden his thunderbolts in the Arimian Cave, where their smoke betrayed them. Typhoeus 
or Typhon (the names are used indifferently) the Cilician, at the advice of his mother 
Gaia, stole them, kept them in a hollow rock, and usurping the powers of Zeus (1. 295 
Zeds vos, 391 vd0ovu Aids, cp. 479 f. yujovov buvelwy je véov oxnmTodxXov ’ONurov | oKATTpA 
Atés Popéovra kal aorpdrrovra xiTGva) proceeded to upset the whole course of nature. 
Thereupon the gods flew, like a flock of birds, to Egypt. Just then Kadmos, seeking 
Europe (supra i. 539 ff.), reached the Arimian Cave. Zeus, accompanied by Eros met 
him, and together they plotted the death of Typhoeus. Pan was to dress up Kadmos as 
a shepherd ; Kadmos, to soothe Typhoeus with his sfvizx, receiving Harmonia as his 
reward ; Eros, to quell the world-tumult and shoot a shaft at Typhoeus. Zeus in the form 
of a bull retired to Mt Tauros (Tatpos=ravpos). The plot is carried into effect. Typhoeus, 
charmed by Kadmos’ music, leaves the bolts of Zeus in the cavern with Gaia. Kadmos 
feigns terror. Typhoeus reassures him, and suggests a musical contest between Kadmos? 
pipes and his stolen thunders. He even offers that, when he himself occupies the throne 
of Zeus, he will establish Kadmos in heaven pipes and all. Kadmos next proposes to 
chant Typhoeus’ triumph to the seven-stringed ithdrva, with which he has surpassed 
Phoibos himself. Unfortunately Zeus, to pleasure Phoibos, has destroyed his strings; but, 
if he can get new strings, he will enchant the universe. Thereupon Typhoeus fetches 
from his cavern the sinews of Zeus, which during their former fight had fallen on the 
ground, and gives them to Kadmos. Kadmos handles the sinews and stores them ina 
hollow rock for Zeus (1. 510 ff. kal raxvs eis éov dvtpoy éretyero* KEelOev delpas | vedpa Ards 
dorbevTe mopev Eewjia Kddum, | vedpa, rd wep xOovi wimre Tupaovin wore xapuy. | Kal ddow 
auBpocinvy amarnuos vere Towmv’ | kal Ta pwev audapdacke kal apuevov oid TE Xopdny | 
ecoouevnv popuryyt Karéxpuge Kowdde wérpy, | Znvi Vvyavropdyvw mwepuvdaypéva). He then 
with thin-drawn notes of his sfvimx pipes to the unwitting Typhoeus the coming victory 
of Zeus. Meantime Zeus creeps into the cave, recovers his weapons, and conceals Kadmos 
in acloud. The music stops. Typhoeus, eager to resume his rage, goes in search of the 
thunderbolts and discovers that he has been tricked. His wrath is unbounded. The gods 
are still in Egypt. But Zeus gives battle from Mt Tauros and, after a scene of prodigious 


Laue 29 


4.50 The effeminate Twin 


before he passes into a milder mood'! But, such vagaries notwith- 


conflict, blasts Typhoeus with his lightnings. To Kadmos he speaks words of comfort, 
and so retires to Olympos, taking the gods with him. 

M. Mayer Die Giganten und Titanen Berlin 1887 p. 228 says truly that the barocco 
trait of Typhon excising the sinews of Zeus is unparalleled in Greek mythology (Sir 
J. Rhys Azbbert Lectures 1886* London 1898 pp. 119—122 cp. the Old Norse myth of 
Tyr v. the wolf Fenrir [who is bound with the fetter Gleipnir, made in part of the sinews 
of bears: see P. D. Chantepie de la Saussaye Zhe Religion of the Teutons Boston and 
London 1902-p. 246] and the Old Irish myth of Nuada Argat-lém v. the Fir Bolg 
champion Sreng [which I have discussed in Ao/k-Lore 1906 xvii. 28 f., supra p. 224 n. 1)) 
and must be due to a learned importation of Egyptian elements. The Count de Marcellus 
(ed. Paris 1856 p. 8 of ‘ Notes et commentaires’) aptly quotes Plout. de Js. e¢ Os. 55 b0ev 
év Korr@ 76 &yadua Tod “Qpov éyoucw év rH érépa xetpl TupGvos aldota karéxew* Kal rdv 
“Epujv pvOodoyodow, €feNvra Tod TupSvos Ta vedpa, xopdais xpnoacbat, SiddoKovres ws Td 
mav 0 Néyos Siappmocduevos ciudwvov €& adguugwvwv pepGv érolnce, Kal THY POapTiKHy ovK 
dmwdeoev, GAN dvemnpwoe, Stvauw. x.T-r. (in the sequel Typhon takes out the eye of 
Horos, swallows it, and then restores it—the Egyptian explanation of a solar eclipse). 
Mayer Zoc. czt. further points out that Typhon hides the sinews of Zeus in a bear’s skin 
because the constellation of the Bear was in Egypt regarded as the soul of Typhon (Plout. 
de Ts. et Os. 21 Tas 5€ Wuxas Ev ovpavg Ndwrrew dorpa, Kal KadreioOa Kiva pev Thy “Lovdos 
tp ‘EdAdjver, br’ Alyurriov dé TOuw, ’Qpiwva dé ryv"Qpov, ri dé Tupavos, dpxrov). He 
adds 24. p. 229 n. 177 that the derivation of Afuos from Typhon’s afua recurs in connexion 
with Egypt (Steph. Byz. s.v. “Hpd). 

One obvious difficulty remains. If the Greek stories were merely Alyéarrioe oyor, 
Hermes ought to have docked the sinews of Typhon, not Typhon the sinews of Zeus. 
Probably the sense of justice, which led the Orphists to declare that Kronos the castrator 
of his father must himself be castrated by his son (supra p. 448 n. 1), prompted a later 
generation to demand the like penalty of Zeus. It may be that the vedpa Ards were 
originally a euphemism for the aidota Acés, cp. Plout. de Zs. et Os. 55 TudGvos aidota and 
the use of vedpa in Athen. 648 (with J. E. B. Mayor’s note on Iuv. ro. 205). 

1 Another explanation, advanced by A. Lang Custom and Myth London 1884 p. 45 ff., 
7a. Myth, Ritual, and Religion London 1887 1. 299 ff., and treated as plausible by Farnell 
Cults of Gk. States i. 27 and Frazer Golden Bough*®: Adonis Attis Osiris’ i. 283, sees in 
these stories ‘a myth of the violent separation of the earth and sky, which some races, 
for example the Polynesians, suppose to have originally clasped each other in a close 
embrace.’ Frazer doc. cit. i. 283 n. 3 quotes a doubtful Egyptian parallel, in which Osiris 
perhaps mutilates his father Set at the separation of earth and heaven. 

More probably we have here to do with mythical echoes of a primitive custom. When 
Kronos succeeds to Ouranos, he must possess himself of his predecessor’s fertilising powers. 
Since these reside in the genitals, the new god must castrate the old. It may be suspected 
that originally he kept the relics as jealously as Typhon keeps the vedpa Acés. The muti- 
lations of Kronos by Zeus and of Zeus by Typhon will be later repetitions of the same 
early myth, which long after its meaning had been forgotten came ricochetting down the 
ages. The most instructive parallel, as Miss Harrison points out to me (Sept. 23, 1918), 
is that of the early kings of Uganda first published by my friend the Rev. J. Roscoe 
‘Kibuka, the War God of the Baganda’ in AZaz 1907 vii. 161—166 with pl. L, 1r—3 and 
4 figs. in text (Kibuka and his brother Mukasa, who lived on one of the islands of Lake 
Victoria, have become the two principal gods of the Baganda. Kibuka’s relics include a 
stool with a hollowed seat containing his lower jawbone, his testicles, and his pha//és, in 
three leathern cases decorated with shells and beads), cp. W. Ridgeway Zhe Dramas and 
Dramatic Dances of Non-European Races Cambridge 1915 p. 379 ff. figs. 85—87. 

Miss Harrison has further brought to my notice the latest attempt to solve the 
problem, that of the psychoanalyst. It is implied, if not expressed, in S. Freud Zotem 
und Tabu Leipzig— Wien 1913 (extr. from /mago 1912 i and 1913 li) p. 120 f. ‘ Wer aber 


The effeminate Twin 451 


standing, Schwartz has fastened on a possibility that merits con- 
sideration. The comparative feebleness of one of the twins is 
certainly a recurring feature’, and may presuppose loss of virility. 
Dr Rendel Harris? points out that on the chest of Kypselos one of 
the Dioskouroi was bearded, the other beardless*,—a distinction 
found also on a sarcophagus at Arles‘: The mystical school of 
Epimenides® even maintained that the Dioskouroi were respec- 
tively male and female®’. Whether Iphikles, sometimes called 


die Geschichte des kleinen Hans aufmerksam durchsieht, wird auch in dieser die reich- 
lichsten Zeugnisse dafiir finden, dass der Vater als der Besitzer des grossen Genitales 
bewundert und als der Bedroher des eigenen Genitales gefiirchtet wird. Im Odipus- wie 
im Kastrationskomplex spielt der Vater die namliche Rolle, die des gefiirchteten Gegners 
der infantilen Sexualinteressen. Die Kastration und ihr Ersatz durch die Blendung ist 
die von ihm drohende Strafe’ (English ed. London 1919 p. 216). . 

1 Tn the 7/ad Machaon is more to the fore than his brother Podaleirios: cp. Hyg. 

Jab. 97, where Machaon takes twenty ships to Troy, Podaleirios ten. But later epos 

distinguished Machaon as surgeon from Podaleirios as physician, and preferred the less 
drastic art. See Tiirk in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 2587 f., Liibker Reallex.8 p. 627. 
U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff /sy/los von Lpidauros Berlin 1886 p. 51 regards 
IlodaXeipios as a Carian name, cp. Steph. Byz. s.v. Zvpya* médis Kaplas, éxricrac dé bd 
TlodaXecpiov. x.7.. and IlodaXeca in central Lykia. The Greeks, however, here as else- 
where (szfra i. 25), tried to extract sense from the Carian name (e/. Gud. p. 471, 28 ff. 
=et. mag. p. 678, 17 ff., Favorin. /ex. p. 1525, 4f., Eustath. zz Z/. pp. 395, 32, 962, 59 ff.) ; 
and modern critics have followed suit. T. Panofka in the Ad. d. berl. Akad. 1845 Phil.- 
hist. Classe p. 342 f. renders ‘ weissfiissig, schnell,’ cp. rodapyns ; W. Pape—G. E. Benseler 
Worterbuch der griechischen Ezgennamen® Braunschweig 1875 ii. 1215, ‘ Rosentreter od. 
Zierfuss’; A. Fick—F. Bechtel Die griechischen Personennamen* Gottingen 1894 pp- 397; 
406, ‘zart, schwach?’+ ‘Fuss,’ followed by S. Eitrem Die gittlichen Zwillinge bei den 
Griechen (Videnskabsselskabets Skrifter 11. Historisk-filos. Klasse 1902 No. 2) Christiania 
1902 p. 93 ‘der schwachfiissige’; A. Fick in the Beztrage zur Kunde der indogerman- 
ischen Sprachen 1902 xxvi. 320, ‘schmalfuss.’ TodaNelpios, understood as ‘ Lily-loot’ 
implying weakness in the feet (on the Francois-vase Hephaistos’ distorted feet are white : 
Furtwangler—Reichhold Gr. Vasenmalerez i. 6 pl. 1—2), might well be contrasted with 
Maxawy, whose name was connected with wdyn (S. Eitrem J/oc. cit. p. 92) rather than 
with “axos, uaxos (A. Fick—E, Bechtel of. czz.? pp. 198, 399, A. Fick Joc. ct. 1902 xxvi. 
320 f.) or with warrew (H. Usener Gétternamen Bonn 18096 pp. 150 n. 8, 170). 

Mr E. S. Hartland has suggested to me in conversation (Oct. 1, 1918) that a Biblical 
parallel is to be found in the case of Jacob and Esau. The analogy is indeed singularly 
complete ; for the statement that the mysterious Wrestler ‘ touched the hollow of Jacob’s 
thigh in the sinew of the hip’ (Gen. 32. 32, cp. 32.25) may, as Mr Hartland urges, refer to 
the genitalia (see J. Skinner A Critical and Exegetical Commentary on Genesis Edinburgh 
Igto pp. 341rf., 410 f.). 

2 J. Rendel Harris The Cult of the Heavenly Twins Cambridge 1906 pp. 46, gt. 

$ Paus. 5.10. 2. 

+ M. Albert Le cute de Castor et Pollux en Italie Paris 1883 p. 108 f., Robert Sark.- 
Relfs iii. 2. 194 ff. pl. 50, 160 (bearded figure in right hand corner) and 160 @ (beardless 
figure in left hand corner), Reinach Rép. Reddefs ii. 212 nos. 1 f. (detail not shown). 

5 On of rept ’Emipevidny see A. Dieterich Abraxas Leipzig 1891 p. 130 n. 1 (‘neu- 
pythagoreisch-neuplatonische Meinungen iiber die Weltschopfung’). 

8 Lyd. de mens. 4. 17 p. 78, 20 ff. of 5¢ rept "Emiuevldny dppeva cai Ofdecay éudOevoav 
tous Avooxépous, Tov uev aidva, worep uovdda, Thy dé piow, ws Sudda, KadéoavTes* ex yap 
Hovddos kai duddos 6 mas fworyoviKds Kal Wuxoryovrkds E€eBAdoTHoEV apLOuds. 


29—2 


452 Apollon and Artemis 


Iphiklos!, can be identified with Iphiklos son of Phylakos, whose 
debility was cured by Melampous?, is very doubtful. 


(A) Apollon and Artemis. 


If one of the twins, he who stood for the dark nocturnal Sky, 
was thus effeminate, the question arises: Can we accept Dr Rendel 
Harris’ further contention ‘that Apollo and Artemis are twins dis- 
placing twins’*? 4 priori such displacement is, of course, quite 
thinkable ; yet we cannot, so far as I know, adduce any example of 
its actual occurrence. Two ancient cult-centres where it might 
naturally have occurred are Delos and Delphoi. At Delos we have 
the earlier Hyperborean maidens Opis and Arge‘, or Opis and 
Hekaerge’, together with their male counterparts Opis and Hekaer- 
gos®; we have also the later Hyperborean maidens Hyperoche and 
Laodike’. At Delphoi we meet with the heroes Hyperochos and 
Laodokos’, or Hyperochos and Amadokos, who were likewise 
Hyperboreans® ; we meet too with the heroic couple Phylakos and 
Autonoos”. But none of these will serve our turn, For the Delian 
pairs, if twins", were not male ; and the Delphian pairs, though male, 
were not twins”. On the whole, it seems most likely that Opis and 
Arge (Hekaerge) were originally appellatives of Artemis", and at 
least possible that Hyperochos and Laodokos (Amadokos) were 
one-time appellatives of Apollon*’. The male Opis and Hekaergos 


1 Apollod. 2. 7. 3 (where for “IdicAos R. Wagner reads “Igixdjs with the epitoma 
Vaticana), Diod. 4. 33, 34, 49. 

2 Infra § 3 (c) i (v). 

3 J. Rendel Harris 7he Cult of the Heavenly Twins Cambridge 1906 p. 137. 

4 Olen af. Hadt. 4. 35 “Qmis and “Apyy. 

5 Melanopos of Kyme af. Paus. 5. 7. 8 "Qmis and ‘Exaépyn. So also Paus. 1. 43. 4; 
Claud. de cons. Stil. 3. 253 ff. 

6 Plat. Axzoch. 371 A, interp. Serv. 2 Verg. Aen. 11. 532, cp. Cic. de nat. deor. 3. 58: 
(but see Ampel. 9. 7). 

7 Hdt. 4. 33—35, Arnob. aav. nat. 6. 6. 

8 Paus. 10. 23. 2. SPatise Wades LO MEdt Sages 

1 Claud. de cons. Stil. 3. 253 ff. Otis, ‘Exaépyn, and Aofs form a triad in Kallim. 
h. Del. 292 with schol. ad loc., Nonn. Dion. 5. 480 ff., 48. 332 ff., e¢. mag. p. 641, 56 ff. 

12 That Hyperochos and Laodokos (Amadokos) were twins, we are not told. They 
are mentioned as a triad along with Pyrrhos, son of Achilles (Paus. 1. 4. 4, 10. 23. 2). 
That Phylakos and Autonoos were twins, is very improbable, since their precincts were 
some distance apart (Hdt. 8. 39, cp. Paus. ro. 8. 7 with H. Hitzig—H. Bliimner ad /oc.). 

13 See e.g. O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 927 ff. 

14 “Yrrépoxos, ‘Eminens, Excellens, Superior’ (Stephanus 7hes. Gr. Ling. viii. 235 C—D). 
’"Auddoxos and Aaddoxos are comparable with the Thracian names M7doxos, Vrapddoxos, 
etc. (F. H. M. Blaydes on Aristoph. vaz. 608). Aadédoxos was perhaps changed into the 
more intelligible Aaééucos, whence Aaodikn—a’ favourite name in the family of Seleukos. 
(O. Hoffmann Dze Makedonen, thre Sprache und thr Volkstum Gottingen 1906 p. 220): 
but this is guessing in the dark. 


Apollon and Artemis 453 


were invented by way of compliment to Apollon, just as the female 
Hyperoche and Laodike were invented by way of compliment 
to Artemis. 

It is, then, far from certain that Apollon and Artemis superseded 
any pair of twins. Indeed it is far from certain that they were 
originally twins themselves. When, where, and how they first got 
together, are questions intimately bound up with the problem of 
Apollon’s provenance. And here opinion has, within the last quarter 
of a century, fairly boxed the compass. K. Wernicke (1894) 
remarks that Homer was already acquainted with Apollon and 
Artemis as the twin offspring of Zeus by Leto, and lays stress 
on Delos as the mainstay, if not the cradle, of their connexion, 
L. R. Farnell (1896)?, who groups the cults of Apollon-and-Artemis 
in a valuable conspectus, would push their joint worship back to 
the Homeric age and concludes: ‘ The place where the two deities 
were first closely associated, and whence the belief in their twinship 
spread, was probably Delos*. T. Zielinski (1899)4 is in favour of 
Troy as the Ausgangspunkt. Apollon and his sister Artemis, a pair 
of light-divinities, came from the Troad, where behind the rocks 
of Mount Ide lay Zyé7a, a blissful ‘Land of Light’ inhabited by the 
pious Hyperboreans. From thence the cult of Apollon in early epic 
times made its way into Greece through Thermopylai. Parnassos 
became the second holy mountain of the god, who found a double 
hypostasis—corresponding with the Amphictionic meetings at 
Delphoi and Pylai—in Ovéstes, the ‘Mountain-man, and Py/ddes, 
the ‘Gate-man.’ U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff (1903, 1908)° 
likewise looks to the east. He argues that in the //ad Apollon 
protects Trojans and Lycians, that as the god of Lykia he has the 
appellatives Lykegendés’, Lykeios, Lykios and in accordance with 


K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Lnc. ii. 33—35. 
Farnell Czts of Gk. States ti. 454—467, 577—581- 

3 A Melian amphora, now at Athens (Collignon—Couve Cat. Vases d’ Athénes p. 120 ff. 
no. 475), has for its principal design the meeting of Apollon and Artemis. Apollon, 
bearded, arrives in a car drawn by four winged steeds. He carries a seven-stringed lyre, 
to which the reins are attached (!), and brings with him two females, usually regarded as 
Muses, but better identified by M. P. Nilsson in the Archiv f. Rel. 1913 xvi. 313 with 
the Hyperborean maidens. If so, the locality must be Delos. Artemis advances to 
welcome the god, having a bow and quiver on her back, an arrow in her left hand, and 
a stag in her right (A. Conze Melische Thongefaesse Leipzig 1862 pl. 4 (=my fig. 357), 
H. von Rohden in Baumeister Denkm. iii. 1954f., Perrot—Chipiez Hzst. de Art ix. 
471 ff. fig. 235). 

4 T. Zielinski ‘Die Orestessage und die Rechtfertigungsidee’ in the Meue Jahrd. f. 
Rlass. Altertum 1899 iii. 87 f. 

5 U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff ‘Apollon’ in Hermes 1903 xxxviii. 575—586, 
id. Greek Historical Writing and Apollo trans. G. Murray Oxford 1908 pp. 27—45. 

6 71, 4. 101, 119. Wilamowitz contends that Pandaros the Lycian presumably uses 


Apollon and Artemis 


454 


— 





Apollon and Artemis 455 


Lycian custom’ the metronymic Letoides, that his sister was a 
barbaric goddess equated by the Greeks with their own Artemis, 
that the birth of the twins was located at Araxa in Lykia?, that their 
mother Leto bears a native name (the Lycian /ada meaning ‘ wife’’), 
that the Delian Apollon was believed to winter in Lykia‘, and that 
the earliest cult-poetry of Delos was attributed to the Lycian Olen’. 
Hence Wilamowitz concludes that Leto and her twins were essentially 
Asiatic (Lato Aszétzs was worshipped at Argos‘), belonging by rights 
to the Lycians in their original abode, that the cult of all three had 
before the arrival of the Greeks in Asia Minor already spread to 
Delos and Crete, and that it passed over from the islands to the main- 
land of Greece, where Apollon usurped the position of this, that, and 
the other older deity. M. P. Nilsson (1906)’ accepts in the main the 
results reached by Wilamowitz and seeks to support them by certain 
heortological considerations. He observes that in Greece, apart 
from the great cult-centres of Delos, Delphoi, and Mount Ptoion, 
the chief festivals of Apollon are precisely those in which the god 
appears as an intruder*; that Apolline festivals are comparatively 
rare on the Greek mainland, much more frequent in the islands and 
in Asia Minor; that Apollon has a higher percentage of appellations 
derived from place-names than any other god, his worship, as a 
missionary cult, being widely disseminated, and his numerous 
epiphanies suggesting that in many places he was invoked to quit 


AuKnyevyjs in the sense of ‘born in Lykia.’ For other interpretations see O. Hofer in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 2174 f. and Frazer Pausandas ii. 195 f. 

1 Hadt. 1. 173 with the note of J. Wells ad Joc. See further O. Benndorf—G. Niemann 
Reisen in Lykien und Karien Wien 1884 p. 73, Sir W. M. Ramsay Zhe Czties and 
Bishoprics of Phrygia Oxford 1895 i. 94 ff., G. Dottin Les anciens peuples de 1 Europe 
Paris 1916 p. 109 f. 

2 O. Benndorf—G. Niemann af.-cz¢. p. 76 f. inscription no. 53 B, 9 ff. éxrardy (?) dé 
kal o¥ mo\\@v xpdvwev | dAXNa THS ad’ (?) Nudv yeveds avalpuvotans THs Ol[eo|rdKov yijs 
Aai|véou[s] woppas duovorumets THs | Anrods didvmos Pworhpow | érovpavios év ’A[pa]Eocs 
kuneiow, |” Apreuly re kat "Amd\dwva, év perv | [I ]uwdpors vrrepdyw «.7.d. (fragments of an 
epideictic speech, in lettering of the age of Commodus, dealing with the mythology and 
ritual of Sidyma), cp. Quint. Smyrn. 11. 20 ff. (Neoptolemos slew Laodamas, whom Leto 
bore to Zeus, breaking up with her hands the hard plain of Lykia as the throes of birth 
came upon her). Gruppe Gr. AZyth. Rel. p. 333 n. 2. 

3 See e.g. H. Hirt Dre Zndogermanen Strassburg 1907 ii. 572 ff. 

4 Verg. Aen. 4. 143 ff. with Serv. ad Joc. 

> Hadt. 4. 35 (supra p. 452 n. 4), Paus. 5. 7. 8. 

6 W. Vollgraff in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1908 xxxii. 236 ff. Marae | ’Ao[e]az[e]de Acdo- 
K[o]po[t], ’Amd\Awv, “Apral|uts, da[A]avei[s] Aeol, e[o]rnoav [va]év, | x.7.A. This temple, 
built in 303 B.c. to commemorate the departure of the Macedonian garrison, was doubtless 
the one described by Paus. 2. 21. 8 f. 

7 Nilsson Gy. Feste pp. 102—104. 

8 Jd. ib. p. 102: ‘so die Thargelien, die Karneen, die Hyakinthien, die Verfolgung 
des Skephros in Tegea, die Daphnephorien in Theben.’ 


456 Apollon and Artemis 


his ancient haunt and attend the new local rites. Nilsson further 
(1911)! notes that the first day of the month was sacred to Apollon 
as Vouménios? and that the twentieth was sacred to him as Ezkédzos°, 
but that his festivals regularly fell on the seventh of the month‘. 
Hence we are to infer that Apollon was essentially connected with 
the lunisolar calendar and its sacred sabbath, that his worship 
originated in Babylonia, and that it spread through Asia Minor 
to Greece. O. Gruppe (1906)’, though he does not go so far afield as 
Mesopotamia, again turns his face eastwards. He holds that the 
worship of a barbaric mother-goddess La#é, whose name was Ionised 
as Leté, and the recognition of Apollon and Artemis as her twin 
children may be attributed to Hellenic settlers on the coast of Asia 
Minor in the course of the ninth and eighth centuries B.c. W. Aly 
(1908)° is disposed to reject the eastern origin of Apollon. He argues 
that, if the god had come—as Wilamowitz thought—from Lykia, 
his cult must have reached Greece vzé Crete. We should therefore 
look to find early forms of his worship in that island. But a careful 
survey of the Cretan evidence can produce nothing of the sort. 
Rather we are driven to conclude that the cult was imported from 
Greece, especially from Delphoi’. E. Meyer (1909)’ also parts com- 


1M. P. Nilsson ‘ Die alteste griechische Zeitrechnung, Apollo und der Orient’ in the 
Archiv f. Rel. 191 xiv. 423—448. 

2 H. Usener in the Rheznz. AZus. 1879 xxxiv. 421 f., W. H. Roscher in his Lex. Myth. 
i. 424f., K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 61, Gruppe Gr. Adyth. Rel. 
p- 939 n. 9, M. P. Nilsson Joc. cit. p. 443 f. 

3K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 50, O. Jessen 74. v. 2098 f., M. P. 
Nilsson Joc. ctt. p. 444. 

4K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 50, F. Boll 2d. vii. 2555, S. Eitrem 
and O. Jessen 2d. vil. 2579, Gruppe Gr. Adyth. Rel. p. 939 n. 7, M. P. Nilsson Joc. cit. 
p- 442f. For a summary of W. H. Roscher’s voluminous papers on the subject see supra 
p- 236 n. 5. 

5 Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 1247—1252. 

6 W. Aly Der hretische Apollonkult Leipzig 1908 pp. 1—57. 

7 Td. ib. p. 57: ‘Fassen wir zusammen, so hat unsere Untersuchung ergeben, dass 
sich auf Kreta nichts findet, das Anspruch darauf machte, fiir altapollinisch zu gelten. 
Der verbreitete Kult des pythischen Gottes kommt von De/phz, wahrend das, was Delphi 
aus Kreta entlehnt, nicht an Apollons Namen haftet. Dorisch diirften wir den Karneios, 
Dromaios, Agyieus nennen; die iibrigen Gestalten sind lokale Sonxdergétter, die mit 
Apollon erst im Laufe der Entwicklung verschmelzen. Besonders deutlich traten der 
Apollon von Eleutherna und Apollon Delphinios als eigenartige Personlichkeiten hervor. 
Wahrend sich in dorischer Zeit Abhangigkeit von A7gos zeigte, wiesen die alteren Spuren 
nach Aéotien, in einem besonderen Falle nach Zhessalien. Kletnasten kam nur ganz 
gelegentlich in Betracht. Die sprachliche Untersuchung konnte noch kein Resultat 
erzielen, da sie von dem ethnologischen Problem abhangig ist. Im Ganzen geht Kreta 
in vordorischer Zeit 2zcht mit dem Osten, sondern mit dem Mutterland. 

Kam Apollon aus Lykien, so ist er jedenfalls an Kreta vollig voriibergegangen, eine 
Tatsache, die den Gstlichen Ursprung des Gottes als sehr zweifelhaft erscheinen lasst.’ 

8 E. Meyer Geschichte des Altertums? i. 2. 639 f. 


Apollon and Artemis 457 


pany with Wilamowitz in regard to the alleged Lycian character of 
Apollon and hisname’. Meyer believes that Apollon was originally a 
deity of flocks and herds, common to all the Greek stems, and that 
later he became an oracle-giver, when identified with one or another 
native oracular god on the western and southern coasts of Asia Minor 
—an identification which entailed certain foreign elements in his cults 
and myths, especially the story of his birth. A. L. Frothingham 
(1911)? conceives that Apollon, a sun-god, originated in Crete, 
being none other than Chrysaor, the offspring of Medousa’, who is to 
be identified with Artemis—and, for that matter, with Rhea, Kybele, 
Demeter, etc.—as a form of the Great Mother‘. Apollon came from 
Crete to Delphoi, returning later to Crete again as Apollon Pythios°. 
Artemis too, a goddess of nature and fertility, was Cretan, if not in 
her origin, at least in her development as mistress of mountains and 
lions, of snakes, of doves or birds*. In Asia Minor, between ¢. 1000 
and 600 B.C.”, she took on the typical form of Medousa, her wings 
being derived from Hittite divinities, her hideous face from the 
Egyptian Bes*. The resultant Gorgéneion, a solar effigy, appears in 
connexion with Artemis at Sparta® and in Korkyra”, with Apollon 
at Miletos" and Delphoi®. Latterly scholars have shown a distinct 
tendency to return to C. O. Miiller’s belief in the northern origin of 
Apollon, even if they do not with Miller regard him as an essentially 
Dorian god®, L. R. Farnell (1907)" writes: ‘ We discern that Apollo 
came into Hellas with the invaders from the North, and aided by the 


1 Td. wb.” i. 2. 640n.: ‘dass der Name Apollon fremden Ursprungs sei, kann ich nicht 
fiir richtig halten. Er ist iiberall ein Hauptgott der Griechen, auch in den Kultformeln 
bei Homer; gerade bei den Doriern, bei denen wir am wenigsten Kleinasiatisches er- 
warten diirfen, ist er geradezu der Stammgott; und ein grosser Teil der apollinischen 
Kulte und Mythen hat mit dem Orakelgott gar nichts zu tun. Andrerseits ist der Name 
Apollon in Lykien nicht nur nicht nachweisbar—das wiirde wenig beweisen, da wir 
lykische G6tternamen aus den Inschriften iiberhaupt nicht kennen—, sondern der Name 
*ArodNwvidys wird lykisch durch pulenida wiedergegeben (C I Lyc. 6), ist also aus demr 
Griechischen entlehnt, was gewiss nicht der Fall sein wiirde, wenn Apollo ein altlykisches 
Aquivalent gehabt hatte.’ 

2 A. L. Frothingham ‘ Medusa, Apollo, and the Great Mother’ in the 4m. Journ. 
Arch. 1911 xv. 349—377, cp. zd. ‘ Medusa II’ 20. 1915 xix. 13—23. 


8 1d. th. 301s ee. 357: 4 Td. ib. 191 xv. 349, 364. 
97 di OA TOMA. 255% 6 Jd. 1b. 1911 xv. 358 ff. 
1 Td. 20: 1O1L xv. 377. ; 8 Jd. 1b. 1911 xv. 364 ff. 
9 Jd. ib, 1911 xv. 370 ff. 10 Jd. ib. 1911 xv. 356. 
Jd. ib. 1911 xv. 355 f. 12) 7d. 16. IOUT XV. 352 fi. 


3 C, O. Miiller The History and Antiquities of the Doric Race trans. H. Tufnell and 
G. C. Lewis Oxford 1830 i. 227 ff. (p. 230: ‘The most ancient settlements of the Doric 
race, of which any historical accounts are extant, were...the country at the foot of Olympus 
and Ossa, near the valley of TEMPE’—p. 300: ‘the worship of Apollo came from the 
most northern part of Greece, from the district of Tempe’). 

M4 Farnell Cults of Gk. States iv. 99 f., 111 f. 


458 Apollon and Artemis 


light of two records we can perhaps follow the double trail of his 
southward pilgrimage, the record concerning the Hyperboreans and 
that about the sacred way from Tempe to Delphi....But the furthest 
northern points to which we can push back the cult of Apollo are 
Illyria, Thrace!, and Macedon.’ Again: ‘The Apolline worship at 
a very early, though perhaps not the earliest, era of Hellenic 
history had struck deep roots in North Greece, and from thence 
spread its branches southwards and across the sea:...it was already 
in some sense the common property of the leading tribes in the 
north, Thessalian-Achaeans, Ionians, Dryopes, and Dorians, before 
the Dorian conquest of the Peloponnese and before the great 
colonies were planted along the Asia Minor coast ; and hence in the 
later era of expansion it became a leading cult in the cities of 
Aeolis and Ionia, and dominant in the Dorian Pentapolis: the 
Peloponnesian Dorians were devoted to the cults of Apollo [Pythaeis| 
and | XK drnezos |, but both these they probably found already established 
there by an earlier Dryopian immigration, while the Amyclaean 
Apollo was the divinity of the Achaean, the Messenian Apollo 
[Kérydos] probably of a Minyan population ; and Apollo Lykeios 
who gave his name to Lycia? belonged to the oldest stratum of 
the religion, and his cult was the common heritage of many races.’ 
G. Murray at first (1911)* laid stress on the epic formula of appeal 
to Zeus, Athena, and Apollon‘ as establishing the Achaean character 
of all three®, but later (1912)* somewhat modified his view : ‘Zeus 
is the Achaean Sky-god. His son Phoebus Apollo is of more 
complex make. On one side he is clearly a Northman. He has 


1 «The wide diffusion of the cult of Apollo in Thrace in the historical period, vide 
Geogr. Reg. s.v. [id. 7b. iv. 433], may be regarded as an inheritance from an aboriginal 
period: the figure of Apollo may have emerged when the Hellenes were in Thrace, or 
may have belonged equally to Thracians and Hellenes : Thomaschek’s Die alten Thraker 
takes the view that Thrace was his original home.’ Hardly so. W. Tomaschek in the 
Setzungsber. d. kais. Akad. d. Wiss. in Wien Phil.-hist. Classe 1894 cxxx. 2. 48 f. says: 
“ Amd\\wy...uralte Gottheit der lelegischen Aboriginer....Von einer Verehrung des Apollon 
in Thrake weiss Herodot nichts....[ Numerous dedications to Apollon in the Thracian 
area are cited] Dies alles unter griechischem Einfluss und aus spaterer Zeit.’ The slip is 
repeated by M. H. Swindler Cretan Elements in the Cults and Ritual of Apollo Bryn 
Mawr 1913 p. 12. Harrison Proleg. Gk. Rel.” p. 462 is more circumspect. 

° Cp. Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 751 n. 2. But that Lykia was named after Apollon 
Avxetos is highly improbable. 

3G. Murray Zhe Rise of the Greek Epic® Oxford 1911 pp. 69, 88 (‘ The two clearest 
gods of Homer’s Achaeans are perhaps the patriarchal Zeus and his son Apollo; next to 
them Athena’). 

4 al yap, Zeb re mdrep kal ’"A@nvatyn kal “AmoNdov (Z/. 2. 371, 4. 288, 7. 132, 16. 97, 
Od. 4. 341, 7. 311, 17. 132, 18. 235, 24. 376). 

> See, however, Harrison Themis p. 501 f.,-J. A. K. Thomson Studies in the Odyssey 
Oxford 1914 p. 152. 

6 G. Murray Four Stayes of Greek Religion New York 1912 p. 60 f. 


Apollon and Artemis 4.59 


connexions with the Hyperboreans....On the other side Apollo 
reaches back to an Aegean matriarchal Kouros. His home is Delos, 
where he has a mother, Leto, but no very visible father.... He is no 
“ Hellene.” In the fighting at Troy he is against the Achaioi: he 
destroys the Greek host, he champions Hector, he even slays Achilles. 
In the Homeric hymn to Apollo! we read that when the great 
archer draws near to Olympus all the gods tremble and start from 
their seats; Leto alone, and of course Zeus, hold their ground.’ 
Miss M. H. Swindler (1913), after a survey of these divergent 
views, frankly abandons the quest: ‘An attempt to name the tribe 
in which the Apollo cult had its beginning can scarcely meet with 
success. The reasons for this are apparent. Although Apollo is a 
comparatively late comer into Greece, he stands out in Homer, 
almost in his full development, with a cosmopolitan character. He is 
essentially a migratory god, which seems to be one source of his 
great popularity. While he sojourned in the various lands to which 
he was “invited,” he took over into his cult the local gods and 
oracles, and acquired new epithets. He is at home in Dorian Pytho 
and Ionian Delos; he has his place in almost all of the oracles on 
the western and southern coast of Asia Minor, and is especially 
bound to Lycia. The islands know him and northern Greece in 
particular bears witness to his worship. It is this pandemic character 
of Apollo and this tendency to appropriate foreign elements to 
his cult which render difficult the problem of determining his original 
character. The origin of his cult and the earliest elements contributed 
to it must for this reason remain problematic.’ 

I confess, I am not so despondent. The myth of the Hyper- 
boreans* goes a long way, if not all the way, towards a settlement 
of the points at issue. 

Himerios‘ (s. iv A.D.) has preserved = us in prose form the 
contents of a poem by Alkaios*® (c. 600 B.C.), which affords the 
earliest known version of the myth: 

‘When Apollon was born, Zeus arrayed him with a golden mz¢ra and a 
lyre, and giving him a chariot of swans to drive sent him to Delphoi and 
the streams of Kastalia, there to utter justice and law for the Hellenes. But 
Apollon, stepping on to the chariot, urged the swans to fly to the Hyperboreoi. 


TAD. Et 

2M. H. Swindler Cretan Elements in the Cults and Ritual of Apollo Bryn Mawr 
1913 p. 13 f. 

3 The fullest and fairest collection of evidence with regard to the Hyperboreans is that 
of Daebritz in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ix. 258—279. See also important articles by 
_ O. Crusius and M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 2805—2841, O. Schroeder ‘ Hyper- 
boreer’ in the Archiv fi Rel. ens viii.. 6g—84, Gruppe AZyth. Lit. 1908 p. 520f., 
G. H. Macurdy ‘The Hyperboreans’ in the Class. Rev. 1916 xxx. 180—183. 

4 Himer. ov. 14. 10f. 5 Alk. frag. 2 Bergk’*. 


460 Apollon and Artemis 


The Delphians, perceiving it, composed a paean and a song, and arranged dances 
of young men round the tripod, and called upon the god to come from the 
Hyperboreoi. He, after he had spent a whole year! in giving law to the men 
that were there, thought that the right time was come for the Delphic tripods 
too to be sounding, so bade his swans fly back again from the Hyperboreoi. 
Now it was summer, indeed midsummer, when, according to Alkaios, Apollon 
was brought from the Hyperboreoi. Hence, at the time when summer shines 
forth and Apollon is here, the lyre too brightens into a summer strain concerning 
the god. Nightingales sing for him as one would expect birds to sing in 
Alkaios. Swallows also sing and cicalas, not telling of their own fortunes among 
men, but voicing all their songs about the god. Kastalia too in poetic wise 
rolls her silver streams, and Kephissos rises high with tossing waves after the 
likeness of Homer’s Enipeus. For Alkaios, like Homer, does his utmost to 
make the very water able to feel the god’s advent.’ 


From this prosified extract we learn that, at the close of the seventh 
century B.C., Apollon was supposed to have reached the land of the 
Hyperboreans by traversing the air with a team of swans®. His track 


1 6 dé Eros bNov mapa Tois exe? Oemtorevoas avOpwro.s, K.T-A. This éros is presumably 
a year of twelve months, not a great year (€viaurés: see supra i. 540 N. I). 

2 For Apollon (a) drawn by swans or (4) riding on a swan see L. Stephani in the 
Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1863 pp. 29 ff., 80 ff., A. Kalkmann in the Jahrb. d. kats. deutsch. 
arch. Inst. 1886 i. 233 ff., Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon pp. 312, 350—354, 494 f., 
P. Hartwig Die griechischen Meisterschalen der Blithezett des strengen rothfigurigen Stiles 
Stuttgart—Berlin 1893 p. 188f., L. Malten Ayvrene Berlin rgrt pp. 8f., 43. 

(z) The former type is known to us from one example only—an engraved smdragdos 
of Roman work at Petrograd, of which a modern paste 
copy existed in the Stosch collection and passed with 
it to Berlin (fig. 358 (scale #) after Overbeck of. cit. 
Apollon p. 495 fig. 24=F. Studniczka in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. ii. 1727 fig. 3), representing Apollon with 
bay-branch and quiver as he bears off the reluctant 
Kyrene in a chariot drawn by two swans (cp. schol. 
Ap. Rhod. 2. 498 Pepexvdns 5€ pyar (frag. 9 (Frag. 
hist. Gr. 1. 72 Miiller)) kal “ApaOos (frag. 4 (Frag. 
hist. Gr. iv. 319 Miiller)) éml kixvwv aidrny dxnbetcay 
kata’ Amé\\wvos mpoalpecw els rhv Kuphynv adixéobat, 
Philostr. min. zmagg. 14. 2 Apollon promises Hya- 
kinthos ddceww...baép kixvwv (Kixvoy cod. P. and ed. 
Ald. C. F. W. Jacobs cj. xixvov) adrov éxovmevov mepiroNetv xwpia, doa’ Amd\Awvos Pida, 
Nonn. Dion. 8. 226 ff. ef dé cor ovpavddev roots ive Kadds AmwoANwY | Kal Dewédns ba 
Epwrt Neacuevos érhero Adgrys, | voagu dddov Kpudioro du’ jEépos els cé xopevon (D. F. Graefe 
cj. xopevoat) | aBpds dovynrwy émoxnuévos apuare kiKvwy,—quoted by O. Jahn in the Ber. 
sachs. Gesellsch. d. Wess. Phil.-hist. Classe 1852 p. 60 n. 26). 

(4) The latter type is fairly common in vase-paintings, terra-cottas, coins, etc. The 
earliest of the vases is a fragmentary £//x from the beginning of s. v B.c. (P. Hartwig 
op. cit. p. 188 f. pl. 18, 3). The earliest coins are electrum statéves of Kyzikos struck 
¢. 400—350 B.C. (W. Greenwell ‘ The electrum coinage of Cyzicus’ in the Mum. Chron. 
Third Series 1887 vii. 57 f. pl. t, 22 Paris, zd. 74. Third Series 1890 x. 22 pl. 3, 3 Green- 
well collection (excellent specimen), B7z¢. Mus. Cat. Coins Mysia p. 33 pl. 8, 13, Babelon 
Monn. gr. rom. ii. 2. 1431 f. pl. 175, 16). I illustrate (pl. xxv) a Aydrta of late red-figured 
style, found in Kyrenaike, preserved in the British Museum, and hitherto unpublished 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases iii. 182 f. no. E 232, Overbeck of. cit. Apollon p. 350 no. 2, 





Fig. 358. 


Plate XXV 





ffydria from Kyrenaike, now in the British Museum: Apollon, riding 
on a swan, returns to Delphoi. 


See page 460 n. 2 (0), 





Apollon and Artemis 461 


P. Hartwig of. cit, p. 189 n. 1). Apollon, with radiate fillet, bordered Azmdtion, and 
bay-branch, sits between the wings of a swan, which is about to alight on the flowering 
earth. On rising ground to the right a Satyr leans on his left hand and knee and looks 
round at Apollon, raising his right hand to his face (drocxorevwy : supra i. 709). Higher 
up on the right stands a Maenad, holding a ¢Ayrsos in one hand and beckoning to the god 
with the other. Satyr and Maenad on the right were balanced by Maenad (?) and Satyr (?) 
on the left; of whom the Maenad (?), seated on a Atmation with a square box behind her, 
looks upward at Apollon, while the Satyr (?)—now largely lost—stands with a ¢hyrsos in 
his left hand. The whole scene is comparable with that on a vase formerly in the 
Hamilton collection (Tischbein Hamzlton Vases ii. 34 ff. pl. 12 (fair), Lenormant— 
de Witte £7. mon. cér. ii. 130 ff. pl. 42, Miiller—Wieseler Denkm. d. alt. Kunst ii. 97 
pl. 13, 140, Overbeck of. cit. Apollon p. 350 no. 1 Atlas pl. 22, 6 (Apollon only)). The 


> Z 


~ollcigigk 





Fig. 359. 


palm-tree would suit either Delos (so C. O. Miiller Zoc. cz¢,, Welcker Alt. Denkm. i. 154 
n. 21, Boetticher Baumkultus p. 419 n. 24a) or Delphoi (so F. Wieseler loc. cit., 
L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1861 p. 68 f., alzb., Overbeck op. czt. Apollon 
p- 352f.). But the appearance of Apollon as the centre of a Dionysiac circle seems to me 
decisive in favour of Delphoi. I cannot agree with my friend Mr H. B. Walters, who 
regards the Satyrs and Maenads as mere ‘personifications of nature’ (Brzt. Mus. Cat. 
Vases iii. 183. Fig: 359 is from a photograph very kindly supplied to me by Mr Walters). 
I figure also two imperial coppers of Kalchedon in Bithynia, which show Apollon, lyre in 
hand, seated on his swan (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Pontus, etc. p. 128 no. 34 Iulia Paula, 
no. 35 Tranquillina pl. 28, 5, no. 36 Tranquillina, Overbeck of. czt. Apollon pp. 304, 
312 Miinztaf. 5, 11 Lucius Verus (=my fig. 360) and 12 Tranquillina, Waddington— 


462 Apollon and Artemis 


was none other than that ‘Road of the Birds,’ which in Lithuanian 
belief led to the celestial country’. In a word, it was the Milky 
Way’. Suspicion becomes certainty, when we take into account the 
next batch of references to the Hyperborean land. Pindar in a 
magnificent passage of his tenth Pythzan*, a poem composed for 
Hippokleas of Thessaly in 498 B.C., says of the victor’s father : 


Babelon—Reinach Moun. gr. d’As. Min. i. 299 pl. 47, 11 Trajan, 300 pl. 47, 16 f. 
M. Aurelius, 301 pl. 47, 21 Faustina Iunior, 301 no. 70 Lucius Verus, 302 pl. 47, 
24 Septimius Severus (=my fig. 361), 302 no. 79 Iulia Domna, 304 no. 93 Elagabalos, 





Fig. 360. Fig. 361. 


305 no. 99 Iulia Paula, 306 pl. 48, 20 Iulia Mamaea, 307 no. 115 Tranquillina, Head 
Hist. num.” p. 512. See further L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1863 p. 82). 
Similarly Zeus was on occasion conceived as drawn by a team of eagles (Brit. Mus. 





Fig. 362. 


Cat. Terracottas p. 431 no. E17o=my fig. 362 a disk from Tarentum: diameter 24 ins.), 
more often as upborne by a ca eagle (supra p. 102f. figs. 59—64). 
1 Supra p. 38. 2 Ib. 3 Pind. Pyth. 10. 27—46. 


Apollon and Artemis 463 


The copper sky he cannot scale ; 
But all the joys we mortals hail 
These hath he voyaged through to the utmost bound. 
By ship nor foot shall e’er be found 
The wondrous way to the Hyperborean throng. 
Yet princely Perseus on a bygone day 
Entered their homes and supped with them, men say, 
Lighting their merry company among, 
What time they offered in that bright abode 
Whole hecatombs of asses! to the god. 
Ay, for Apollon loves always 
The feasting and the feasters’ praise ; 
And sure he laughs to see the sight 
Of brute beasts ramping bolt upright. 


1 Cp. Clem. Al. frotr. 2. 29. 4 p. 21, 26 ff. Stahlin DxiOar dé rods dvous lepevovres uh 
mavécbwyv, ws AmodNbdwpbs pyar (frag. 13 (Frag. hist. Gr.i. 431 Miiller)) cal Kad\Xuayos 
(frag. 187 Schneider), ‘ PotBos ‘LrepBopéoow byw émiréderar (Tanaquil Faber cj. émerépr- 
erat QO. Schneider cj. émeré\Oerat) ipots.’ 6 adros d€ ddNaxod (frag. 118 Schneider) 
‘réprovow Nurapal PoiBov dvorparyiar’ (quoted also by schol. Pind. Pyth. 10. 49) = Arnob, 
adv. nat. 4. 25 quis ab Scythis asinos immolari? non principaliter cum ceteris Apollodorus ? 
luv. 6. 468 f. illo lacte fovetur | propter quod secum comites educit asellas, | exul Hyper- 
boreum si dimittatur ad axem. Ant. Lib. 20, writing in s. ii A.D. or later (¢z/ra Append. M 
med.), cites from the Ornzthogonia of ‘ Boios’ (G. Knaack in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. 
iii. 633 f.) and from the epic Afol/on by Simmias of Rhodes (W. Christ Geschichte der 
griechischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1911 ii. 1. 92 f., Litbker Reallex.§ p. 952) the story of 
Kleinis, which may be summarised as follows :—Near Babylon lived a man called Kleinis, 
a wealthy owner of oxen, asses, and sheep. Favoured by Apollon and Artemis, he often 
went with them to the temple of Apollon among the Hyperboreoi, where he saw the 
asses being sacrificed to the god. On reaching Babylon again he too was minded to offer 
a similar hecatomb at Apollon’s altar. But Apollon came and threatened to kill him, 
unless he desisted and returned to his usual sacrifice of goats, sheep, and oxen, saying 
that the asses pleased him only if offered by the Hyperboreoi. So Kleinis drove the asses 
from the altar, and told all this to the children whom Harpe had borne him—Lykios, 
Ortygios, Harpasos, and Artemiche. Thereupon Lykios and Harpasos bade him .to 
sacrifice the asses and enjoy the feast; Ortygios and Artemiche, to hearken to Apollon. 
He followed the advice of the latter. But Harpasos and Lykios let the asses go, and 
drove, them to the altar. At this the god sent madness upon the beasts, which devoured 
the young men and their servants, and Kleinis into the bargain. As they perished they 
called upon the gods. Poseidon in pity turned Harpe and Harpasos into the birds that 
bear their names. Leto and Artemis resolved to save Kleinis, Artemiche, and Ortygios, 
as being innocent persons. Apollon therefore, to pleasure Leto and Artemis, transformed 
Kleinis into a tyaleros (a large, dark eagle of the sort that slays fawns), Lykios into a 
képaé (a raven, white at first, but black later when it announced that Koronis daughter of 
Phlegyas had married Alkyoneus), Artemiche into a wigry& (a lark ?), and Ortygios into 
an aiylOadXos (a titmouse). 

In the Amphictionic law of 380 B.c. (Corp. inser. Gr. i no. 1688, 14 f. = Corp. tnscr. 
Att. ii. 1 no. 545, 14f.= Michel Recueil a’ /nscr. gr. no. 702, 14 f.=J. Baunack in Collitz— 
Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Jnschr. ii. 643 ff. no. 2501, 14 f. =Roberts—Gardner Gk. Epigr. ii. 
gi ff. no. 70, 14 f.=J. v. Prott and L. Ziehen Zeges Graecorum sacrae ii no. 75, 14 f. kal 
Ta lepria aOpba cuvaydvrwy Tds dvos TOV SokiulacbévTwy dmoddvTes, 6 dé éml Tay éx]laTéuBav 
O[p]xov dudcas elrep Tol iepouydmoves Soxiuatérw) the words rds 6vos—as H. L. Ahrens 
De dialecto Dorica Gottingae 1843 p. 484 ff. pointed out—have nothing to do with asses 
(dvous), but with the prices (wvous) of the victims approved for sacrifice. 


464 Apollon and Artemis 


The Muse is never absent from their haunt, 
But, while the virgin dancers circling chant, 
Lutes lift their sound, 
Flutes echo round. 
With golden bay they bind the brow 
And glad at heart go revelling now. 
No fell disease, no cursed age 
Can spoil the pilgrims’ heritage, 
Who free at last from weary fight 
And far from Nemesis’ despite 
Dwell safe at home. 
Thither did Danaé’s son of valiant soul, 
Guided by great Athena to his goal, 
To join the band of all the blessed come. 


Notice two points. On the one hand, when Pindar speaks of a 
‘wondrous way ’—neither sea nor land—leading to a blissful abode 
free from disease and old age, he means beyond all reasonable doubt 
the Elysian track elsewhere described by him as ‘the road of Zeus’ 
or ‘the gleaming way’, in a word the Galaxy. This actually passes 
through the constellation Perseus*, an astronomical fact which 
explains the part played by that hero in the myth. On the other 
hand, the sacrifice of asses suggests an earthly rather than a heavenly 
location. Asses were slain for Ares by various tribes*, including the 
inhabitants of Karmania‘, and for Priapos by the Lampsacenes’. 
They were further connected with Dionysos, Silenos, the Satyrs, etc.® 
These deities one and all emanate from the Thraco-Phrygian area, 
And, if the Tarentines sacrificed an ass to the Winds’, it was 
presumably to the Etesian Winds which blew down the Adriatic 
from the north-west’. The ass, however, was unknown to the 
Scythians® and is but a stranger in central Europe”. We may there- 
fore provisionally assume that those who habitually offered this 
beast to Apollon dwelt in or near Thrace. 

The same curious bilocation of the Hyperborean realm appears in 


1 Supra p. 36 f. 2 Hyg. poet. astr. 4. 7. 

3 Cornut. ¢heol. 21 p. 41, 9 ff. Lang. 4 Strab. 727 (quoted sara i. 746 n. 2). 

5 Ov. fast. 1. 391 ff., 6. 345 f., Lact. dv. zmst. 1. 21, Myth. Vat. 3. 6. 26. 

6 T have collected a good deal of the evidence in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1894 xiv. 
81—102 (‘The Cult of the Ass’). See also L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 
1863 pp. 228—242, Gruppe Gr. AZjth. Rel. p. 1311 n. 3, F. Olck in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. vi. 652 f., O. Keller Die antike Tierwelt Leipzig 1909 i. 267, 269 f. 

7 Hesych. s.v. dveuwras, et. mag. p. 103, 33 f. 

8 Cp. Timaios frag. 94 (Frag. hist. Gr. i, 215 f. Miiller) ag. Diog. Laert. 8. 60. 
Infra § 7 (a). 

9 Hdt. 4. 28, 129, Aristot. Azst. an. 8. 25. 605 a 20 ff., de gen. an, 2. 8. 728 a 22 ff., 
Strab. 307. See further F. Olck in Pauly—Wissowa eal-Enc. vi. 631 f., 654. 

10 Schrader Reallex. p. 205 f., S. Feist Kultur Ausbrettung und Herkunft der Indo- 
germanen Berlin 1913 p. 158. 


Apollon and Artemis 465 


other allusions of Pindar and his younger contemporary Bakchylides. 
A Pindaric poem cited by Strabo! spoke of the Hyperboreoi 
as ‘living for a thousand years’—a view shared by Simonides? 
(556—468 B.C.), Megasthenes* (c. 300 B.C.), and others. Again, 
Bakchylides* made the Delian Apollon transport Kroisos and his 
daughter straight from the pyre to the Hyperboreoi; on which 
Sir R. C. Jebb® justly observes that the Hyperborean land is con- 
ceived as a paradise for pious mortals, like the Homeric Elysian 
Plain or the post-Homeric Islands of the Blest. But, if these passages 
imply that the Hyperboreoi lived in a celestial country to be reached 
by no ordinary route, Pindar’s third Olympzan‘, written for Theron 
of Akragas in 476 B.C., insists with equal clearness that they had a 
terrestrial abode in the Balkans. Herakles, pursuing the hind with 
golden horns, ‘had seen the far-off land beyond the cold blast of 
Boreas, had marvelled at its trees, and had been filled with desire 
to plant them at the end of the Olympic race-course. The poet in 
the context identifies this Hyperborean region with ‘the Istrian 
land,’ where ‘ Leto’s horse-driving daughter’ (Artemis) had welcomed 
the hero. It was ‘from the shady springs of Istros’ that he brought 
the olive to Olympia, ‘after he had gotten it by persuading the 
servants of Apollon, to wit the folk of the Hyperboreoi.’ 

The account here given by Pindar is not free from difficulty. 
My friend Sir W. Ridgeway has argued that the hind with golden 
horns is due to a reminiscence of the reindeer, since in no other 
species of deer are antlers borne by the female’. This contention is 
supported by Sir James Frazer, who points out that in north-eastern 
Russia there is an annual celebration known as the ‘Feast of the 
Golden-reindeer-horn’.’ The hypothesis is indeed attractive, though 
by no means secure. The attribution of horns to female deer was a 
blunder common to Greek®, Latin”, and Hebrew" writers. And we 


1 Pind. frag. 257 Bergk? ap. Strab. 711. 

* Simonides frag. 197 Bergk4 ap. Strab. 711. 

3 Megasthenes frag. 30 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 423 f. Miiller) af. Strab. 711. 

+ Bakchyl. 3. 58 ff. 5 Sir R. C. Jebb on Bakchyl. 3. 59. 

6 Pind. O/. 3. 13—34. 

7 Sir W. Ridgeway ‘The Hind with the Golden Horns’ in the Proceedings of the 
Cambridge Philological Society 1894 p. 14f., reported in 7he Academy 1894 xlvi. 404 and 
in the 4m. Journ, Arch. 18g4 ix. 571 f., 7d. The Early Age of Greece Cambridge r1gor i. 
360—363. For the zodlogical facts see e.g. R. Lydekker The Royal Natural History 
London 1894 ii. 369. 

8 Sir J. G. Frazer af. Sir W. Ridgeway The Early Age of Greece Cambridge 1901 i. 363. 

® Anakreon frag. 51 Bergk4, 52 Hiller—Crusius, Simonides frag. 30 Bergk’, 15 
Hiller—Crusius, Soph. Aleadai frag. 86 Nauck?, 89 Jebb, Eur. frag. 857 Nauck?, Aristot. 
mir, ausc. 75, schol. Pind. OZ. 3. 52. 10 Val. Flacc. 6. 71, 

1S. Bochart Hierozoicon ed. E. F. C. Rosenmiiller Lipsiae 1794 ii. 236. 


Coan 30 


466 Apollon and Artemis 


can hardly think that in every such case they were describing a 
reindeer or copying the peculiarity of the Cerynean hind’. Besides, 
the oldest known representation of the ‘hind,’ that on a ‘sail’-/2ba/a 
of the Geometric period, makes it an unmistakable male*®. If, how- 
ever, we accept Sir W. Ridgeway’s explanation and with him suppose 
that Herakles travelled as far north as the Hercynian Forest, where 
reindeer were still to be seen in Caesar’s day’, it becomes impossible 
to believe that the hero fetched thence the wild olive, which is 
essentially a southern, not a northern plant*. Pindar, confessedly an 
innovator in matters of mythology, may well have combined the 
myth that Herakles cut his club from a wild-olive on the Saronic 
Gulf and, leaning it against the image of Hermes Poljgios at Troizen, 
caused a wild-olive to spring up there too’ with the fact that an 
olive was growing on the grave of the Hyperborean maidens 
Hyperoche and Laodike in Delos’. Be that as it may, Pindar 
having once stated that Herakles had brought the wild-olive from 
the land of the Hyperboreoi to Olympia, others would repeat the 
statement’ and it would be widely believed. 

But at this point L. Weniger® has done good service by insisting 
on the local tradition of the Olympic seers® preserved by Phlegon 
of Tralleis, who wrote his chronological compendium in the first 
half of s. ii. A.D.° According to Phlegon", for the first five Olympiads 
no victor received a wreath; but, on the occasion of the sixth con- 
test, the Eleans sent their King Iphitos to Delphoi, that he might 
ask of the god whether wreaths should be awarded, and the god 
made answer : 


1 A. C. Pearson on Soph. frag. 89 Jebb. 

2 W.N. Bates ‘Two labours of Heracles on a Geometric fibula’ in the Am. Journ. 
Arch. tot xv. 1 ff., especially p. 8 with fig. 4. 

3 Caes. de bell. Gall. 6. 26. This and other classical references to reindeer are collected 
by O. Keller De antike Tierwelt Leipzig 1909 i. 279—281. See also Schrader Reallex. 
p- 373 f. and W. W. Hyde ‘ The curious animals of the Hercynian Forest’ in Ze Classical 
Journal 1917—18 xiii. 234 ff. (‘The Reindeer’). 

4 On the range of the olive see V. Hehn Avlturpflanzen und Hausthiere in ihrem 
Ubergang aus Asien nach Griechenland und Italien sowie in das tibrige Europa’ Berlin 
1894 p. 101 ff. (trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1888 p. 88 ff.), Schrader Read/ex. p. 588. 

>) Pans. 2.030. co 

Hat. 4. 34 érumépuxe O€ of (sc. rH onuate) daly. 7 Pans, Baya 7 
L. Weniger Der heilige Olbaum in Olympia Weimar 1895 p. 2 f. 
Phlegon jrag. 1 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 603 f. Miiller) 6 HeNorovyjcou vaérat repi (rapa 
Synkell. chron. 196 B (i. 369 Dindorf), cp. Euseb. chron. 1 (i. 191, 29 ff. Schoene)) Bapor 
iévres | Overe Kal mwelOecOe Ta Kev pavTers éevérwow, | ’Helwy mpdmrodo, Tarépwy vouov 
iO’dvovres=Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 6. 21 (reading mepiBwuu’ loves). 

10 Smith Dict. Biogr. Myth. iii. 337, Liibker Reallex.® p. 806. 

1 Phlegon frag. 1 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 603 f. Miiller) “Igire, updevov kaprov ph Ons emt 
vixyn, | GANG Tov dyptov audiTiber KapTwdn éAarav, | ds vdv aupéxerar NeTToiow bodcuac’ 
dpaxvns=Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 6. 23. 


6 
8 
9 


Apollon and Artemis 467 


Iphitos, make not the fruit of an apple the prize of thy contest ; 
But on the victor’s head set a fruitful wreath of wild olive, 
Even the tree now girt with the fine-spun webs of a spider. 


The king, on returning to Olympia, found that one among the 
many wild-olives in the precinct was wrapped in spiders’ webs. 
So he walled it round and wreathed the victors from its branches. 
The first to gain the wreath was Daikles the Messenian, who won 
the foot-race in the seventh Olympiad (752 B.c.). The spiders’ 
webs, since they portended rain?, marked out one tree as specially 
fertile. But the point to notice is that in this old priestly narrative 
there were many wild-olives growing in the precinct. The tree was 
an indigenous product, no importation from a foreign land, least of 
all from the far north. 

Nevertheless the belief that Herakles had introduced a tree from 
the north to Olympia is supported by both ritual and myth. Only, 
the tree in question was not the wild-olive but the white-poplar. 
Pausanias® says: 


‘The Eleans are wont to use logs of white-poplar, and of no other tree, for 
their sacrifices to Zeus. They honour the white-poplar thus, I imagine; simply 
because Herakles brought it to Hellas from the Thesprotian land. It struck me, 
too, that Herakles himself, when he offered sacrifice to Zeus at Olympia, burnt 
the thigh-pieces of the victims on logs of white-poplar. Herakles found the 
white-poplar growing beside the Acheron, the river in Thesprotia ; and on this 
account—they say—the tree is called by Homer acherois*. It would seem, then, 
that of old, as at the present day, different rivers suited different plants and 
trees. Thus tamarisks are most numerous and flourishing on the banks of the 


1 Cp. Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 1. 71 Aatkdjs Meonvios, Euseb. chron. x (i. 195, 4 and 
196, 4 Schoene) vii. Darkles Mesenius, in stadio: ["E]8déun. Acoxd7s Meojvios, sradiov. 

2 Plin. zat. hist, 11. 84 iidem sereno non texunt, nubilo texunt, ideoque multa aranea 
imbrium signa sunt. Gruppe G7. AZyth. Rel. p. 1216 n. t cp. Paus. 2. 25. 10 dare 6é dpos 
imép tas Anoons 7d Apaxvaior,...Bwpol dé eiow év aire Ards Te kal "Hpas: dejoav buBpov 
odlow évravOa Avovsct. 

SS PansSa ne 4 eats 

4 71. 13. 389=16. 482 with schol. A.B. D. Z/. 13. 389 axepwis:  NevKn, Tapa TO ék 
tod ’Axépovtos Torauod Tay KaTaxOoviwy KomcOqvac adtiy bd ‘Hpaxdéous, orewauévov 
avriv érl ry KepBépov vixy, schol. T. Z/. 13. 389 7 AedKn* Tabrny yap aviyyayev ‘Hpakdjjs 
é& "Axépovros: of dé tH alyerpov, Kal ‘‘dxedwls”’ ypapovow, érel dnow ‘‘aiyeipwy bdaro- 
Tpepéwy ” (Od. 17. 208). dre dé wéyas Hv, dANaXOD Pyot “‘ uluvov érepxduevov éyav “Accov 
ovde péBovto” (//. 12. 136), schol. A.D. 77. 16. 482 dxepwiss dévdpov 6 Kadetra AevKn. 
évcoe 6€ Pyyod eldos elrrov airjy (see Folk-Lore 1904 xv. 297), schol. L. 77. 16. 482 amd 
Tov “Axépovros yap avnxOn mapa Tov ‘Hpakdéous. dia Toro kal adkapmos Kal Tots veKpots 
apw<cwwpévn qv>. See further Harpokr. s.v. Aevxn =Souid. s.v, NevKy, et. mag. p. 180, 
49 ff., Eustath. zz /7. p. 938, 61 ff. 

The ancient derivation is rejected by modern philologists (L. Meyer Hands, d. gr. 
Etym. i. 147 f., Schrader Reallex. p. 205, Prellwitz Eiym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr? p. 69, 
Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. to7, H. Hirt Die /ndogermanen Strassburg 
1907 ii. 622, S. Feist Kultur Ausbreitung und Herkunft der Indogermanen Berlin 1913 


Pp. 194). 
30—2 


468 Apollon and Artemis 


Maiandros ; reeds grow tallest in the Boeotian Asopos; and the ferseza-tree 
loves no water but the water of the Nile. Similarly with regard to the white- 
poplar, the poplar, and the wild-olive, it was natural enough for the white-poplar 
to grow first on the banks of the Acheron, for the wild-olive to do the same on 
the banks of the Alpheios, and for the poplar to be nurtured by the land of the 
Keltoi and the Celtic Eridanos.’ 





Fig. 363. 


The interpolator of Servius’ commentary on Virgil has preserved 
a more romantic version’. Leuke, the daughter of Okeanos, was 
loved by Plouton and carried off to the Underworld, where she spent 


1 Interp. Serv. zz Verg. ec/. 7. 61 (probably derived from the commentary of Aelius 
Donatus). 


Apollon and Artemis 469 


her days and in due course died. Plouton from love of her bade 
a white-poplar (/e#ke) to spring up in the Elysian fields. It was 
from this tree that Herakles on his return from the nether regions 
plucked a wreath. Other authorities add a few details. Herakles, 
when he dragged Kerberos from below, saw the white-poplar growing 
beside the Acheron, marvelled at its beauty, wreathed himself with 
it, brought it to the Upperworld, and showed it to Helios. The myth 
was already current in the fourth century B.C., to judge from a 
Scopaic type of the hero wearing his poplar-wreath (fig. 363)* 
The wreath of white-poplar, thus associated with Herakles*, was 
awarded to. victors in the Rhodian Tlapolemeia, a festival com- 
memorating Herakles’ son Tlepolemos‘, if not Herakles himself®. 
Some would have it, however, that the festival belonged to Helios®; 
and natives of the island spoke of the white-poplar as ‘ Helios’ 
wreath’. Virgil, describing the cult of Hercules at the Ara Maxima, 


1 Eratosthenes (?) af. schol. Theokr. 2. 121 (p. 290, 7 ff. Wendel), interp. Serv. 27 
Verg. Aen. 5. 134, schol. A. B.D. //. 13. 389, Eustath. z 77. p. 938, 63 f. Serv. 2 Verg. 
georg. 2. 66 (cod. G.) has a curious variant: populum significat arborem, quia de populo 
fuit corona, quam portavit Hercules circa suum caput in infernum. ipse alibi: Herculea 
bicolor (Aen. 8. 276). Arnepolis civitas (? cp. Steph. Byz. s.v.”Apyn-...tpitn Mecororaplas. 
??= Arneburg (H. Oesterley Historisch-geographisches Worterbuch des deutschen Mittel- 
alters Gotha 1883 p. 27)) a Babyloniis Herculem pro tempore colere dicitur. idcirco 
hanc arborem ei dedicatam populum dicunt. huius folia noctis et lucis imaginem decla- 
rant, nec alia causa clavam ei adsignant, quanquam (/eg. quam quod) sit inaequalibus 
vulneribus, per quam dierum inaequalitas intelligitur. Cp. Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 8. 276 
Herculea populus; Herculi consecrata, qui, cum ad inferos descendens fatigaretur labore, 
dicitur de hac arbore corona facta caput velasse: unde foliorum pars temporibus cohaerens 
et capiti (P. Burman cj. ex capitis ve/ capitis) albuit sudore (abluit sudorem cod. Sangall. 
alba sudore cod, Guelf. 1), pars vero exterior propter inferorum colorem nigra permansit. 

2 The best preserved example of the type (on which see B. Graef ‘ Herakles des 
Skopas und Verwandtes’ in the Rém. Mitth. 1889 iv. 189—226 with pl. 8 f. and illustra- 
tions in text) is the bust from Genzano in the British Museum (47z¢. Mus. Cat. Sculpture 
iii. 93 no. 1731 pl. 5, 2. My fig. 363 is from P. Wolters in the Jahrd. d. kais. deutsch. 
arch. Inst. 1886 i. 55 f. pl. 5, 2. Fine Parian marble. Height o-40™). To the biblio- 
graphy given by Mr A. H. Smith add Overbeck Gr. Plastck? ii. 24 ff. fig. 142, a—c, 
H. Bulle Der schoene Mensch im Altertum™® Muenchen—Leipzig 1912 p. 479 f. pl. 211 
(left), Stuart Jones Cat. Sculpt. Mus. Capit. Rome p. 71 Stanze terrene a dritta 1. 23 
pl. 13, W. Helbig Fiihrer durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in 
Rom® Leipzig 1912 i. 257 no. 405, 520 no. gig, 525 no. 926, A. H. Smith British 
Museum: Marbles and Bronzes London 1914 p. 6 pl. 21. 

3 Theokr. 2. 121 with schol. ad doc., Verg. ecl. 7. 61, georg. 2. 66, Aen. 8. 276F. with 
Serv. ad locc., Ov. her. 9. 64, Plin. mat. hist. 12. 3, Phaedr. 3. 17. 4, Tert. de cor. mil. 7. 

4 Schol. Pind. O/. 7. 147. 

5 Schol. Pind. O2. 7. 145 TAnmodéuera. of dé “Hpdxdeca* x.7-A. But the two festivals 
were distinct: see Nilsson Gr. Feste pp. 450f., 462 f. 

6 Schol. Pind. O/. 7. 146 citing Istros frag. 60b (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 427 Miiller). 

7 Frag. com. adesp. (Frag. com. Gr. ii. 746 ff., v. 52 f. Meineke) af. Dikaiarch. 1. 5 
(Geogr. Gr. min. i. 100 Miiller) ray 5é ri AedKyY Tis adT@v mpaéws | ddraKov elvar grépavov 
ely, mviyoua | x.7.. Large bronze coins issued at Rhodes between 88 and 43 B.c. have 
obv. head of Helios, radiate, facing; vev. full-blown rose to front, within a wreath (Ave. 


470 Apollon and Artemis 


makes the Salii chant his exploits ‘their brows bound with branches 
of poplar’, though later usage prescribed wreaths of bay”. It was 
perhaps as followers of Herakles that successful athletes in Kos? 
and at Athens‘ wore white-poplar. But the practice has ultimately 
a chthonian significance. The white-poplar, ‘the finest tree which 
grows in modern Greece’, had in ancient times a variety of 


Mus, Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 261 nos. 342 pl. 41, 3 (=my fig. 364), 343 (=my fig. 365), 
344, 345 pl. 41, 4, Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 444 no. 80, Head Ast. num.” p. 641f.). This 
wreath, formerly said to be of vine-leaves (Rasche Lex. Num. vii. 1039), is now com- 
monly described as an oak-wreath; and such it might possibly be (Class. Rev. 1903 xvii. 
418 fig. 17). But our passage rather suggests that it is intended for the wreath of white- 
poplar sacred to the Rhodian Helios. Mr E. S. G. Robinson, who at my request kindly 
compared the specimens in the British Museum with some actual leaves of white-poplar, 
reports (June 24, 1921): ‘I have looked at the coins of Rhodes you mention and have 





little doubt that the leaves of the wreath are meant for white poplar and not for oak, as 
you will see from the two enclosed casts; they (the leaves) are not drawn with any great 
care, but the essential difference between the oak and poplar (the pyramidical shape of 
the latter) seems to have been observed.’ 

A certain sympathy between the white-poplar and Helios is attested by the belief that 
the olive, the white-poplar, and the willow turn their leaves at the solstice (Varr. ver. 
rust. 1. 46=Plin. nat. hist. 2. 108. Plin. naz. hist. 16. 87 and 18. 266f. adds the elm 
and the linden). 

1 Verg. Aen. 8. 285 ff. 

2 Interp. Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 8. 276, Macrob. Sat. 3. 12. 1 ff. See further R. Peter 
in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 2926f. 

3 Theokr. 2. 120 ff. with schol. ad Joc. 4 Aristoph. 726. 1007. 

> So Dr W. Leaf in his note on //. 13. 389. Cp. E. Step Wayside and Woodland 
Trees London 1905 p. 55: ‘The White Poplar...grows into a large tree, something be- 
tween sixty and a hundred feet high.’ 


Apollon and Artemis 471 


names derived from the light-coloured under-surface of its leaves}. 
The striking effect of light combined with dark was, at least in part, 
the reason why the tree was assigned to the limbo between the 
Upperworld and the Underworld. As having no fruit, also, it was 
appropriate to the realm beyond®. It was ‘chthonian’, ‘sacred to 
Hades‘, ‘dedicate to the dead®.’ Hence, according to Harpokration® 
(s.ii(?)’ A.D.), its use in the rites of the chthonian Dionysos®. A similar 
explanation might be given of the fact that, at Olympia, persons 
wishing to sacrifice to Pelops had to obtain wood of the white- 
poplar from the ‘woodman’ (xy/ezis)* attached to the cult of Zeus”. 
When Idmon, son of Apollon and seer of the Argonauts, died, his 
brows were bound with its white leafage™. Aquites the Colchian, 
‘consecrated to the waters of the land and priest of the mighty 
Phasis, wore a wreath of white-poplar”, perhaps because poplars 
fringed the river where it flowed past Phrixos’ tomb to the sea™. 
Finally, Polyphemos, son of the Lapith Elatos, who married 


1 ©. Hoffmann Die Makedonen, thre Sprache und thr Volkstum Gottingen 1906 p. 42: 
‘Die “ Silberpappel” fiihrte im Griechischen ihren Namen nach der ‘‘ weiss schimmernden” 
Farbe ihrer Blatter: sie hiess Nevxn, dhpwia [Hesych. adpwia: 7 NevKn. TepparBot] (von 
addo- ‘‘weiss,” adpéds ‘*weisser Fleck,” lat. a/dus), NUydn [Hesych. \vydn* TO dévdpor, 
% AevKn] (AUK- schwache Form zu Xevx-), Pavdia [Hesych. pavdia: eldos éNalas. oi O€ Tas 
Nevkas. pavhia’ ura Ta peydda] (von Pav- ‘glanzen” in Pad-ois, m-pad-cKw etc.). 
Wenn also ihr makedonischer Name ddifa* 7 NevKyn TO dévdpov Hes[ych]. (iiberl. ray 
dévdpwy : verbessert v. GUYETUS) griechisch ware, so wiirden wir seinen Stamm in der 
Bedeutung “‘schimmern” im Griechischen zu finden erwarten. Das ist bis jetzt nicht 
der Fall.’ 

J. Britten—R. Holland A Dictionary of English Plant-names London 1884 iii. 600 
have compiled the following list: ‘ PopuLUS ALBA, L. Abbey, Abbey-tree, Abel, Abele, 
Arbeal, Arbell, Asp (White), Aspen (Great), Awbel, Beech (Dutch), Dutch Arbel, 
Peplar (White), Poplar (White, Silver), White-bark.’ Ade/e and its various deformations 
are derived from the late Latin a/bel/us, a diminutive of albus (J. A. H. Murray A New 
English Dictionary Oxford 1888 i. 15). 2 Schol. Od. 10. 510. 

3 Harpokr. s.v. NevKn’...avrox@driov (leg. ud Td XOdvi0v) mer elvae TO gurov = Souid. 
5.d. NetKN*...01 TO XOdviov ev elyar TO HuTor. 

4 Eustath. 2 Z/. p. 938, 64f. ws dxapros dé 7 dxepwls TH “Ady dvdkecra. 

5 Schol. L. //. 16. 482 (supra p. 467 n. 4). 

6 Harpokr. s.v. NevKn=Souid. s.v. NevKn. 

7 Sir J. E. Sandys 4 History of Classical Scholarship? Cambridge ai i. 325 f. 

8 Supra i. 392 N. 4. 

9 Cp. Olympia v. 143 ff. no. 62, 12 f. ’ONpaixos CSC) (='Oduprlyov) | Evdevs, 147 ff. 
no. 64, 31f. (=Dittenberger Sy//. inscr. Gr.” no. 612, 31f.) Evdeds | H¥Ovwos Zwrlwvos 
Me., 221 ff. no. 121, 27f. Eudeds | "Aveixnros, 223 f. no. 122, 23 Eudevs* ’Avelxnros, 225 f. 
no. 124, 9f. bane peoeecee s Aids]. 

10 Paus. 5. 13. 3. Lhe Pelopion had been founded by Herakles, who sacrificed into 
the pit (6éthvos) for Pelops. The annual magistrates kept up the sacrifice, the victim being 
a black ram, the neck of which was given to the woodman (-xy/ezs). Whoever, either of 
the Eleans or of strangers, ate the flesh of the victim sacrificed to Pelops might not enter 
the temple of Zeus (74. 2—3). See further Sir J. G. Frazer ad loc. 

11 Val. Flacc. 5. 10f. 12 Val. Flacc. 6. 294 ff. 18 Val. Flacc. 5. 184 ff. 


472 Apollon and Artemis 


Laonome a sister of Herakles! and fell fighting in the land of 
the Chalybes, had a burial mound near the sea beneath a tall 
white-poplar®. 

If the white-poplar was thus regarded as a Borderland tree, the 
black-poplar was even more closely connected with the Otherworld. 
The woods of Persephone on the further side of Okeanos consisted 
of ‘tall black-poplars and willows that shed their fruit’ When 
Teukros quitted Salamis to seek a new home across the water, ‘he 
is said to have bound his brows with a poplar-wreath*’ When 
Aeneas on the anniversary of his father’s death held a contest for 
ships, the Trojan crews were ‘veiled with poplar-leafage®.’ Varro was 
buried in an earthenware coffin ‘after the manner of the Pythagoreans 
on leaves of myrtle, olive, and black-poplar®.’ And the place where 
Augustus’ body had been burnt on the Campus Martius was enclosed 
by an iron fence and planted with black-poplars’. 

Nor can we in this context ignore the myth of the Hepades 
Virgil, it is true, in his Hclogwes transforms these sisters of Phaethon 
into alders*: but in his Aemwezd he, like the great majority of Latin 
writers, speaks of.them as poplars®; and the Greeks almost with one 
consent” call them black-poplars". As such they appear in their 


1 Schol. Ap. Rhod. 1. 1241. Cod. Paris. has Aaovény for Aaovédunv. 

2 Ap. Rhod. 4. 1475 ff. Cp. E. B. Browning Rhyme of the Duchess May i. 2. t ‘Six 
abeles i’ the kirkyard grow,’ iii. 2. 1 ‘The abeles moved in the sun.’ 

® Od. 10. 509 f., cp. Paus. 10. 30. 6. 

4 Hor. od. 1. 7. 21 ff. Porphyrion ad /oc. bene, non qualibet sed Aopulea corona, propter 
fortitudinem animi; nam haec arbos in tutela Herculis est. But we have no right to 
assuine that Aopewlus means populus alba. W. Hirschfelder in his note on od. 1. 7. 22 f. 
makes the same assumption. 

° Verg. Aen. 5.134. Serv. and interp. Serv. ad Joc. drag in Hercules, and even Hebe, 
to explain ‘cetera populea velatur fronde cuventus’ ! 

§ Plin. zat. hist. 35. 160. 

7 Strab. 236. See further O. Richter Zopographie der Stadt Rom* Miinchen 1901 
p. 250f., H. Jordan—C. Hiilsen Zofographie der Stadt Rom im Alterthum Berlin 1907 
i. 3. 620. 

8 Verg. ecl. 6. 62 f. tum Phaethontiadas musco circumdat amarae (so Diomed. av‘. 
gramm. 2 p. 453, 35f. Keil amaro cod. R.) | corticis atque solo proceras erigit alnos. 
G. Knaack in Roscher Zex. Myth. iii. 2192 says: ‘diese gesuchte Abweichung ist wohl 
auf Cornelius Gallus zuriickzufithren.’ In Germ. Arat. 365 f. hunc, nova silva, | planxere 
zgnotis maestae Phaethontides wlnzs P. Burman cj. exatis versae Phaethontides alnis, which 
is ingenious, but unnecessary, cp. Avien. Avat. phaen. 793 f. illum prolixis durae Phae- 
thontides ulnis | planxerunt. 

9 Verg. Aen. 10. 190 with Serv. ad loc., cp. Hyg. fad. 152 and 154, Plin. maz. hist. 
37- 31, Val. Flacc. 5. 429, Myth. Vat. 1. 118, 2. 57 (in arbores commutatae sunt alnos, 
vel, ut alii dicunt, in populos). 

For a numismatic representation of Phaethon’s sisters as larches (?) see swfra p. 402 n.o. 

10 The only exception is schol. Eur. Hipp. 732 év 6¢ ro’ Hprdave ai ‘Hdrddes xdpac tov 
Paédovra daxpvovoat els Pyyovs meTeBHOnoar. 

U Schol. H.Q.V. Od. 17. 208 (% 6€ ioropla rapa rots Tpay.kots), Ap. Rhod. 4. 603 ff. 


Apollon and Artemis 473 


earliest extant representation, that of an Arretine mould acquired in 
1898 by the Museum of Fine Arts at Boston. A cast taken from the 
mould (fig. 366)! shows a relief, signed by Bargates a slave of the 
potter M. Perennius, which subdivides into two distinct scenes. On 
the right we see Phaethon fallen from the solar car. One wheel of it 
lies beside him. The other is collected, as Valerius Flaccus says*, by 
Tethys the wife of Okeanos, his grandmother*. Helios‘, on horse- 
back with a spare horse at his side, has already caught two of the 
chariot-team by the reins and will next turn his attention to the 
remaining pair, of which one rears high in the air, the other collapses 
on the ground. The scene is completed by the cause of Phaethon’s 
fall—Zeus in the act of hurling his bolt, accompanied by Artemis, 
whose arrow would avenge the wrong done to Apollon, and by Iris°, 
whose outstretched arms hold a fillet suggestive of a rainbow span- 
ning the storm. On the left is the transformation of Phaethon’s sisters. 
One of them has been completely metamorphosed into a tree, from 
whose branches large leaves of black-poplar are sprouting. The other 
two are stiffening into the shape of Caryatids® as they endeavour 
with uplifted hand to free themselves from the branches visible above 
them. In this last desperate effort they and their vanished sister 
are helped by three young men, in all probability their brothers’, 


with schol. ad Joc., Diod. 5. 23, Strab. 215, Dionys. fer. 288 ff. with Eustath. ad Joc., 
Loukian. de salt. 55, de electro x ff., Philostr. mai. zmagg. 1. 11, Aristot. mir. ausc. 81= 
Steph. Byz. s.v. "Hdexrpldes vjco, Nonn. Dion. 2. 152 ff., append. prov. 3. 8 (E. L. von 
Leutsch—F. W. Schneidewin Paroemiographi Graeci Gottingae 1839 i. 416 f.), Hesych. 
$.U. HrexTpos, et. mag. pp. 425, 18 ff., 427, 6 ff. 

1 E. Robinson in the Annual Report of the Museum of Fine Arts Boston 1898 xxiii. 
89 no. 63 (diameter o'1g™, height o-08™), P. Hartwig ‘Eine Aretinische Gefassform mit 
Scenen aus der Phaethonsage’ in Phzlologus 1899 lviii. 481—497 with pl. (=my fig. 366), 
H. Goez ‘Zu der Aretinischen Gefassform mit Scenen aus der Phaethonsage’ 74. 1gor Ix. 
478 f., G. Knaack in Roscher Zex. Myth. iii. 2195—2197 fig. 1, H. B. Walters History 
of Ancient Pottery London 1905 ii. 483 f. fig. 218, F. Oswald—T. D. Pryce Ax Jntro- 
duction to the Study of Terra Sigillata London 1920 p. 7. 

2) Valk Blacc ss .43in- 

3 Phaethon was the son of Helios by the Oceanid Klymene (G. Knaack in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. iii. 2177). E. Robinson Joc. czt. took the figure of Tethys to be ‘ possibly one 
“of the Heliades.’ F. Hauser (Phz/ologus 1899 lviii. 485 n. 5) suggested Nemesis (supra 
i. 269 ff., 276). The right interpretation was first given by P. Hartwig Joc. cét. 

4 So P. Hartwig Joc. cit.: certainly not ‘ Phaethon...vainly trying to hold his six 
horses’ (E. Robinson Zoc. cii#.). 

5 Niké or Iris?’ (E. Robinson Joc. c##.): ‘Aura oder Hora’ (P. Hartwig Zoc. ciz. with 
express reservation) : ‘ eine gefliigelte Frauengestalt, die einen bogenformig ausgebreiteten 
Gegenstand emporhialt (wohl Andeutung des Himmelsgewolbes) ’ (G. Knaack Joc. cz¢.). 

8 Supra p. 402 n. Oo. 

7 E. Robinson Joc. cz¢. is content to speak of them in each case asa ‘youth.’ P. Hartwig 
Joc. cit., after weighing the possibility that they may be ‘ Briider oder Verwandte der 
Heliaden,’ accepts a suggestion of W. Helbig that they are labourers hacking at the trees 
to get drops of amber: we are to assume that the ancients confused the method of collecting 


AT, Apollon and Artemis 


Ss 
‘6 
ey 
bo 
oo 





Apollon and Artemis 475 


who with bill-hooks, or without}, attempt to lop or rend away 
the entangling vegetable growth. The centre of the transforma- 
tion-scene is occupied by a spiral column with a rosette on the 
top of it and a ladder leaning against it. P. Hartwig? and H. Goez? 
draw a sharp contrast between the two scenes of the downfall 
and the metamorphosis: the former they take to be a rich and 
harmonious composition implying an artistic prototype‘, the latter 
a loosely-connected and clumsy row of figures perhaps first put 
together by Bargates and certainly filled out by him with a mere 
ornamental column’. I do not agree with this estimate. On the one 
hand, the boasted composition is full of absurdities. Zeus, comfort- 
ably seated, is yet hurling a thunderbolt! Helios is on horse-back— 
a notion that is not Greek®. And Artemis is unexampled dans cette 
galere. The fact is that the Arretine potter, not possessed of sufficient 
genius to invent a new type, is simply using up stock patterns. 
He has by hima seated Zeus, who will serve for the thunderer. He 
has a set of neo-Attic dies for the tragedy of the Niobids’: three of 
them can be worked in—Artemis, the dead youth (Phaethon), the 
fleeing maiden (Tethys). He knows how to represent Troilos on 
horse-back: the familiar figure with its spare horse will do for 
Helios, and the two horses of Troilos can be duplicated for the 
captured solar pair. All patch-work! But patch-work, when the 
patches are Greek, is apt to produce+—as it were by a turn of the 
kaleidoscope—new and satisfactory combinations of old and well- 


amber with that of obtaining frankincense (Theophr. Azs¢. pl. 9. 4. 4, Plin. zat. hist. 12. 
68). H. Goez /oc. cit. thinks that the youth without the bill-hook, like the two Heliades 
in front of him, is trying to tear away the fatal poplar-branches, and can hardly be viewed 
as an amber-collector. G. Knaack Joc. c7¢. leaves the question in suspense. 

1 Cp. Ov. met. 2. 358f. (of Clymene) truncis avellere corpora temptat | et teneros 
manibus ramos abrumpit. 

2 P. Hartwig /oc. cit. p. 493. 

3 H. Goez doc. cit. p. 479. 

4 P. Hartwig loc. cit. p. 494 ff. presupposes some toreutic work of the Hellenistic age, 
inspired by a literary (but oz-tragic) source, to which Ovid and Valerius Flaccus were 
likewise indebted. F 

5 E. Robinson Joc. cz¢.: ‘This may have something to do with the subject, but seems 
more probably introduced to fill the space.’ P. Hartwig /oc. cit. p. 491 f.: ‘Die gewundene 
Saule...halte ich mit Robinson fiir eine rein ornamentale Zuthat unseres Bargates.’ For 
the twisted column as a favourite motif of Arretine ware see H. B. Walters History of 
Ancient Pottery London 1905 ii. 493. 

6 Supra i. 333 n. 5. Yet Eur. Phaethon frag. 779, 8f. Nauck? af. Longin. de sudlim. 
15. 4 says of Helios: rarnp 5’ dmicbe vOra ceipaiov BeBas | immeve maida vouberay: x.T.d. 

7 F, Hauser Die neu-attischen Reliefs Stuttgart 1889 p. 73 ff. nos. 104—107b. Furt- 
wingler Masterpieces of Gk. Sculpt. p. 43 f. fig. 7 shows that these reliefs were originally 
extracts from a fifth-century representation of Apollon and Artemis slaying the Niobids, 
probably that carved by Pheidias on the throne of Zeus at Olympia. For other views see 
A. H. Smith in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Sculpture iii. 262 f. 


476 Apollon and Artemis 
known elements. Hence the appreciation of our critics. On the 
other hand, the transformation of the Heliades is hardly to be dis- 
missed as a group of mechanical or meaningless items. The designer 
had at his disposal sundry vintage-stamps? including a vine-dresser, 
a ladder, a dancing Satyr’, and a dancing Maenad*. By dexterous 
repetition of the first and last he has contrived to tell his story, 
though it must be admitted that the poplar-sprays on the bay-leaved 
willow-trunk are, as H. Goez protests, a Vaturwunder+. It is notice- 
able that no indication of locality is given except the twisted column 
and the ladder. The action, doubtless, takes place on the banks 
of the Eridanos, a river usually identified with the Padus or the 
Rhodanus, but also set in the sky as the constellation Eridanus or 
Flumen®. The scene is thus at once earthly and heavenly. Is it a 
mere coincidence that we have already found both the spiral column® 
and the ladder’ used as links between earth and heaven? Moreover, 
we have seen reason to connect the sky-pillar® and sky-ladder® with 
the Milky Way. And, with regard to the mythical personages here 
concerned, it will be remembered, not only that we identified the 
road up which the Heliades escorted Parmenides as the Milky Way”, 
but also that certain Pythagoreans explained the Milky Way as the 
track made by a star which fell with the falling Phaethon". 

I am inclined to surmise that the Galaxy at one time played a 
considerable vé/e in the myth of Phaethon”. There are at least three 


1 For vintage-scenes as part of the Arretine potter’s répertotre see H. B. Walters of. 
cit. ii. 492 f. 

2 Cp. F. Hauser of. czt. pl. 1, 17 (right arm altered). 

3 Cp. F. Hauser of. cit. pl. 2, 25 (reversed). The type is derived from the Maenad of 
Skopas (sara i. 666 n. 1). 

4H. Goez /oc. cit. p. 478. For examples of composite trees on moulded ware from 
Roman Gaul see J. Déchelette Les vases céramiques ornés de la Gaule Romaine Paris 1904 
lil. 159 f. nos. 1127—1129. 

® E. H. Bunbury in Smith Dict. Geogr. i. 849, J. Escher-Biirkli in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. vi. 446 ff. Serv. 7 Verg. Aen. 6. 59 states that Phaethon son of Helios was 
originally called Eridanos, that he was renamed from his fiery fall, and that he gave his 
previous title to the river in which he fell. 


§ Supra p. 107. 7 Supra p. 124 ff. 
8 Supra p. 44 ff. 9 Supra p. 124 ff. 
10 Supra p. 42f. ll Supra pp. 40 N. 4, 43 N. I. 


12 This myth has been studied in detail by F. Wieseler Phaethon Gottingen 1857 
pp. I—74 with figs. 1—12, H. d’Arbois de Jubainville ‘Sur les origines de l’ambre, 
Phaéthon, |’Eridan, les Ligures et les Celtes’ in the Bulletin de la société nationale des 
antiquaires de France 1876 pp. 134—142, U. von Wilamowitz-Mollendorff ‘ Phaethon’ 
in Hermes 1883 xviii. 396—434, C. Robert ‘Die Phaethonsage bei Hesiod’ 2. 1883 xviii. 
434—441, M. Mayer ‘ Excurs iiber Hygin fad. 152 und 154’ 26. 1885 xx. 135—143, A. 
Bangert De fabula Phaethontea Halis Saxonum 1885 pp. 1—41, G. Knaack Quaestiones 
Phaetonteae Berolini 1886 pp. 1—81, zd. ‘Zur Phaethonsage’ in Hermes 1887 xxii. 637— 
640, za. in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 2175—2202 with figs. 1—3 (the most comprehensive 


Apollon and Artemis - 477 


possibilities. In the first place, the Milky Way was that ‘ Road of 
the Birds', along which the swans drew Apollon to the land of the 
Hyperboreans®, This accounts for the intimate relations of Aykunos, 
the ‘Swan, to Phaethon. The Hesiodic (?) version preserved by 
Hyginus* states that Kyknos, king of Liguria, bewailing the fate of 
his kinsman Phaethon was changed into a swan and chanted his 
dying’song. Similarly Pausanias‘ relates that Kyknos, a musician, 
became king of the Ligurians inhabiting the Celtic country beyond 
the Eridanos, and at his death was transformed into the bird by the 
will of Apollon. Phanokles’, the Alexandrian elegiast, in his Avo¢es 
retold the tale and, no doubt, gave it the romantic touch, which is 
discernible in later allusions®. Claudian’ adds that Phaethon, raised 
to the sky, became Auriga, and his sisters the Hyades, while 
The Milky Circle sprinkles the spread wings 
Of Cycnus, once his comrade. 

Both Auriga, the ‘Charioteer,’ and O/or, the ‘Swan,’ are to be seen 
nightly onthe Milky Way®. Lucian in his little work Ox Amber or 
Swans claims to have visited the Eridanos and lost his illusions. 
He saw neither poplars nor amber, and the natives had never heard 
of Phaethon ! 


‘ However,’ he continues, ‘there was one thing I still thought I really should 
find there, and that was flocks of swans singing on the banks. We were still on 
the way up, and I applied to the boatmen again: “About what time do the 
swans take post for their famous musical entertainment ?—Apollo’s fellow crafts- 
men, you know, who were changed here from men to birds, and still sing in 
memory of their ancient art.” But they only jeered at me: ‘Are you going to lie 
all day about our country and our river, pray?”’ Etc., etc.? 


and compendious treatment of the subject), O. Gruppe ‘ Aethiopenmythen’ in Phzlologus 
1889 xlvii. 328—343, S. Eitrem ‘De Phaethonte’ 7d. 1899 lviii. 461—464, J. Hopken 
Die Fahrt des Phaethon Emden 1899 p. 1 ff., C. W. Vollgraff De Ovidi mythopoeia 
Berolini 1901 pp. 45—61 (‘De fabula Phaethontis’), z¢@. Vikander und Ovid Groningen 
Ig0g i. 105—109, Gruppe AZyth. Lit, 1908 p. 594f. See further the bibliography in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 2175 f. 


1 Supra p. 38. 2 Supra p. 460 ff. 
3 Hyg. fab. 154, cp. schol. Strozziana zz Caes. Germ. Aratea p. 174, 4 ff. Breysig. 
* Pause sods 5 Phanokles ag. Lact. Plac. narr. fab. 2. 4. 


8 Verg. Aen. to. 189 ff. with Serv. ad loc., Ov. met. 2. 367 ff. (cp. anon. mscel/. 6 in 
A. Westermann MYOOLPAPOL Brunsvigae 1843 p. 347, 32 ff. =ILAPAAOZOPPA®OI 
Brunsvigae 1839 p. 222, 13 f.). 

7 Claud. de v1 cons. Honor. 173 ff. Opinion differed as to the author of these catasterisms. 
Claud. doc. c#t. refers them all to Helios (2b. 170 Titan). Nonn. Dion. 38. 424 ff. makes 
Zeus set Phaethon in the sky as Auriga, the Eridanos as Flumen. Interp. Serv. zz Verg. 
Aen, 10. 189 says that Kyknos was placed among the stars by Apollon. 

8 Hyg. poet. astr. 4. 7 notes that the Milky Way passes through the following con- 
stellations: Olor, Perseus, Auriga, Gemini, Procyon, Argo, Centaurus, Scorpio, Sagittarius, 
Aquila. 

9 Loukian. de electro 4 f. trans. H. W. Fowler. 


478 Apollon and Artemis 


The swan was fair game to the satirist ; but its connexion with the 
myth was never forgotten by ancient art. A fine sardonyx cameo 
at Florence (fig. 367)! shows 
Phaethon falling from the solar 
car into the river, which is 
suggested by the urn upset. 
Helios’, a youthful figure on 
horse-back grasping a torch, 
gallops up to the rescue, In 
the foreground Kyknos, a swan 
already, utters his plaintivecry. 
The same scene with its sug- 
gestion of sudden death fol- 
lowed by new and glorified life 

Fig. 367. was repeated on sarcophagi of 
the second and third centuries A.D.? The noblest example is that 








Fig. 368. 


from Ostia, now in the Jacobsen collection at Ny-Carlsberg (fig. 368)*. 


1 C, Lenormant Nouvelle galerie mythologique (Trésor de numismatique et de glyptique) 
Paris 1850 p. 134 no. 15 pl. 41, F. Wieseler Phaethon Gottingen 1857 p. 17 fig. 10, 
zd. in the Ann. d. Inst. 1869 xli. 134, Furtwangler Ant. Gemmen i. pl. 58, 2, ii. 263, 
W. H. Roscher in his Lex. M/yth. iii. 2199 f. My fig. 367 is from T. Cades Collezione di 
Ne. 1400 Impronti delle mighori pietre incise, si antiche, che moderne, ricavati dalle pit 
distinte Collezion¢ conosciute dell’ Europa 14, Classe, A 4, 19. 

? Furtwangler of. cit. ii. 263: ‘Es ist der eine der Dioskuren, der Tagesdioskur, 
identifiziert mit Phosphoros, oder, anders gewendet, Phosphoros im Typus eines Dioskurs.’ 
But see supra p. 475 n. 6. 

3G. Knaack Quaestiones Phaethonteae Berolini 1886 pp. 71—77, zd. in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. iii. 2197—2199. F. Wieseler Phaethon Gottingen 1857 figs. 1, 2, 4, 5 provides 
materials for comparative study, but will be superseded some day by a future volume of 
Robert Sark.-Relfs. 

+ F. Wieseler ‘Sarcofago ostiense rappresentante il mito di Fetonte’ in the Amz. d. 
Inst. 1869 xli. 130—144 pl. F, F. Matz in the Arch. Zett. 1870 xxviii. 113 ff., G. Knaack 
in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 2197 ff. fig. 2, G. Lippold in P. Arndt La Glyptothéque 
Ny- Carlsberg Munich 1896 p. 215f. pl. 153 (=my fig. 368), Reinach #ép. Reliefs ii. 
182 no. 2. 


Apollon and Artemis 4.79 


On the left we see Phaethon standing before the seated Helios to 
prefer his request. In front of Helios four youths, the Heliadai', 
hold in readiness the solar steeds. At his back are four maidens, 
the Horai, characterised as the seasons of the year. The central 
space is reserved for the central incident, the fall of Phaethon, 
conceived as on the cameo, except that Helios on horse-back is 
replaced by the Dioskouroi? riding up from left and right, while 
Kyknos below appears both as an aged man leaning on a staff and 
asaswan. At his back sits Moira* conning the roll of fate. Phaethon 
falls headlong towards Eridanos, who reclines with a branch over 
his shoulder and a snake‘ at his side. Beyond him is another 
reclining male, who holds a large wheel and is best regarded as a 
personification of the Course®. An anchor visible between the two 
hints at Okeanos. Above sits Helios, his head resting on his hand 
in a pose of deep dejection, while Hermes brings him the sad news‘. 
Behind Helios stands Klymene (?) with a look of grave concern. 
Behind Hermes are the Heliades, two standing, one seated, in 
attitudes expressive of their grief’. Their transformation is still to 
come: as mourners they must not anticipate the change. 

Secondly, the Milky Way is sometimes viewed as a celes- 
tial river, and that not only in Australia’, Annam®, China”, 


1 So P. Hartwig in PAzlologus 1899 lviii. 489. G. Lippold Joc. czt. is content with 
‘quatre serviteurs.’ Above them are remains of the chariot-pole, and the mantle of Caelus 
(supra i. 59). 

2 See A. Baumeister in his Denkm. iii. 1305 f. 

3 Nonn. Dion. 38. 166 and 218. 

4 See F. Wieseler in the Amz. d. Just. 1869 xli. 137. 

°> Cp. supra i. 260 n. 3. G. Knaack in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 2197 ‘Auf dem 
Himmelsgewélbe (vgl. Matz, dull. dell’ tnst. 1869, 67) sitzt Helios...’ is on the wrong 
track. So too is G. Lippold Zc. czt., who (after F. Wieseler Joc. czt.) sees in the two 
reclining male figures ‘ des personnifications de la Terre et de la Mer.’ 

® His type is ultimately derived from that of Hermes in the east pediment of the 
Parthenon (z/ra § g (h) ii (9)). 

7 All three are modifications of figures F (Hippodameia) and O (the handmaid) in the 
east pediment of the temple of Zeus at Olympia (Overbeck Gr. Plastzk* i fig. 77). 

8 R. Andree Zthnographische Parallelen und Vergleiche Stuttgart 1878 p. 110 (the 
Gingis of New South Wales, tribes on the Darling River), 

9 H. Gaidoz and E. Rolland in AZé/usine Paris 1884-85 ii. 154. 

10 Eid. tb. ii. 154. Prof. H. A. Giles has kindly supplied me (Jan. 18, 1919) with the 
following detailed information: ‘The Milky Way is mentioned three times in the Odes 
edited by Confucius about B.c. 500, but only as a celestial phenomenon. 

‘The famous traveller, Chang Ch‘ien, who brought the grape from Fergana to China, 
and visited Bactria (B.c. 138), was sent by the Emperor to discover the source of the 
Yellow River, which was supposed to flow from heaven and to be a continuation of the 
Milky Way. He sailed up stream for many days until he reached a city where he saw a 
girl weaving. On his asking what place this was, the girl gave him her shuttle, telling 
him to show it on his return to a certain astrologer, who would know where he had been. 
He did so, and the astrologer at once recognized the shuttle as that of the Weaving 


480 Apollon and Artemis 


Japan!', Siberia?, Mesopotamia’, and Arabia‘, but in Greece itself®. 
Greek peasants in Kypros speak of it as ‘the River Jordan’ or ‘the 
Shade of the Jordan‘, Indeed, the southern Greeks in general call 
it the ‘River Jordan’. And this name can be traced back for hun- 
dreds of years, being found already in the Apédkopos of Bergades*, a 
sixteenth-century poem of lasting popularity®. In face of these facts 


Damsel (a Lyrae) ; further declaring that on the day and at the hour when Chang received 
the shuttle, he had noticed the intrusion of a wandering star between a Lyrae and 
By Aquilae. Thus Chang was actually believed to have sailed upon the bosom of the 
Milky Way. 

‘ The following names have been given to the Milky Way by the Chinese: The Celestial 
River. The Silver River. The Celestial Ford. The Bright River. The Red River! The 
last is an amnzs ruber a non rubendo; the explanation being that the Milky Way lies to 
the south of the north pole, and that fire and red are the element and colour, respectively, 
which have been assigned to the south quarter of the heavens.’ 

1 B. H. Chamberlain 7hings Japanese London—Tokyo 1890 p. 327f. (a reference 
given me by my friend Mr H. G. Brand of Tokyo): ‘The only fable worth mentioning 
here in connection with the stars is that which inspires the festival named Zanabata. This 
fable, which is of Chinese origin, relates the loves of a Herdsman and a Weaving-Girl. 
The Herdsman is a star in Aquila. The Weaver is the star Vega. They dwell on opposite 
sides of the ‘‘Celestial River,” or Milky Way, and may never meet but on the seventh 
night of the seventh moon, a night held sacred to them, strips of paper with poetic 
effusions in their honour being stuck on stems of bamboo grass and set up in various 
places. According to one version of the legend, the Weaving-Girl was so constantly kept 
employed in making garments for the offspring of the Emperor of Heaven—in other 
words, God—that she had no leisure to attend to the adornment of her person. At last 
however, God, taking compassion on her loneliness, gave her in marriage to the Herds- 
man who dwelt on the opposite bank of the river. Hereupon the woman began to grow 
remiss in her work. God, in his anger, then made her recross the river, at the same time 
forbidding her husband to visit her oftener than once a year. Another version represents 
the pair as mortals, who were wedded at the early ages of fifteen and twelve, and who 
died at the ages of a hundred and three and ninety-nine respectively. After death, their 
spirits flew up to the sky, where the Supreme Deity bathed daily in the Celestial River. 
No mortals might pollute it by their touch, except on the seventh day of the seventh 
moon, when the Deity, instead of bathing, went to listen to the chanting of the Buddhist 
scriptures.’ 

2 R. Andree of. cit. p. 110 (the Koryaks of North-East Siberia). 

3 H. Fox Talbot in the 7ransactions of the Society of Biblical Archeology 1873 ii. 53, 
A. Jeremias Handbuch der altorientalischen Geisteskultur Leipzig 1913 p. 189, 7a. in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 1493. + H. Gaidoz and E. Rolland Joc. cit. ii. 156. 

> Not in Italy. H. Gaidoz and E. Rolland Joc. cit. ii. 151 give Fluvius lacteus as a 
Latin name of the Milky Way. But this rests on a misunderstanding of Mart. Cap. 15 
and 207, where the milky stream is the track of the planet Iupiter: see U. F. Kopp’s 
note on Mart. Cap. 14. 

6 G. Loukas ®iNodAoyexal émicxéWers Athens 1874 p. 135, quoted by H. Gaidoz and 
E. Rolland Zoc. cit. ii. 156. , 

7 G. F. Abbott Macedonian Folklore Cambridge 1903 p. 69. Cp. N. G. Polites Medér 
éml Tov Blov Trav Newrépwv ‘EAXjvwy Athens 1871 1. 15. 

8K, Legrand Bibliotheque grecque vulgaire Paris 1881 ii. 98 "Améxoros Too Mrepyady 
87f. ’Aorpdmrer, ré was, 7) Bpovra, x’ dv cuvvedig kal Bpéxn, | Kal 0 Lopddvns rorapds av 
Kuparn Kal Tpéxy- 

9K. Legrand af. H. Gaidoz and E. Rolland Joc. céz. ii. 156 f. 


Apollon and Artemis 481 


it is permissible to conjecture that the Erzdanés, which—as I shall 
subsequently argue'—appears to have meant ‘ River of Life,’ was at 
the outset none other than the Milky Way, and that, when a different 
conception of this starry phenomenon gained ground and drove out 
the old appellation, room was still found in the nocturnal sky for the 
constellation Eridanus*. Moreover, if we may rely (as we are fully 
entitled to do) on the statement of Hyginus’ that some authorities 
spoke of this constellation as the Nile, and that many called it 
_ Oceanus, certain further consequences immediately present them- 
selves. The Nile is described in the Odyssey* by the remarkable 
adjective Dzzpetés, which properly denotes a river ‘that falls in the 
Zeus,’ ‘in the clear Sky®’ This description would apply with strict 
accuracy only to the Milky Way, but might be extended to all 
rivers® conceived as rillets of that great flood’. Pursuing the same 
line of thought we can hardly avoid another conclusion, vzz. that 
‘back-flowing Okeanos’, the very ‘source of the gods®,” was not 


1 Infra Append. G. 

2 R. Brown Zridanus: river and constellation London 1883 p. 44 would connect the 
Milky Way ‘with the vn cae Eridanus, subsequently reduplicated in the A ees 
constellation of that name’: cp. 2d. p. 71. 

3 Hyg. poet. astr. 2, 32 ERIDANUS. hunc alii Nilum, complures etiam Oceanum esse 
dixerunt. 

4 Od. 4. 477 (=4. 581) Aly’rroo, Aumeréos morauoto with schol. ad loc. According to 
schol. E.H.Q., Znvddoros...ypaper duevreréos dua ris et SipObyyouv. Supra i. 349 n. 2. 
F. Solmsen in the Zedtschrift fiir vergleichende Sprachforschung auf dem Gebiete der 
indogermanischen Sprachen 19tt xliv. 162f., followed by F. Bechtel Lexzlogus zu Homer 
Halle a. d. S. 1914 p. tor, would write dcevreréos, holding that the dative Ave:-, correct in 
such a formation as AcfelguNos, forced its way at an early date into other compounds, in 
which it was incorrect,—Acfel-Oeyis, Acet-rpépys, Srec-merys. But the locative Au- in 
Aunerjs, explained as in the text, gives a perfectly satisfactory meaning. H. Lehmann 
Zur Lehre vont Locativ bei Homer Neustettin 1870 p. 8 renders: ‘in der Helle fliessend.’ 

5 Cp. the analogous formation Auzérns, ‘that flies in the Zeus,’ ‘in the clear Sky 
(2. Aphr. 4 olwvots tre Auméreas. So H. Ebeling for dumeréas codd. W. Schulze Quaes- 
tiones epicae Gueterslohae 1892 p. 237 f. proposes drecreréas). 

§ Skamandros (//. 21. 268, 326), Spercheios (Z/. 16. 174), a river in Phaiakia (Od. 7. 
284), a river in some unidentified locality (Hes. frag. 212 Flach, 217 Rzach af. schol. 
Ap. Rhod. 1. 757), a river in a simile (//, 17. 263). For later developments in the 
meaning of Auwzerzs see Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. ii. 1527 C—1528B. The earlier 
significance may perhaps be traced in its application to the thunderbolt (an oracle a. 
Euseb. prac. ev. 6. 3. t=Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 6. 146. 23 mwupody alwpaior 
Aureréecot daujvat, cp. et. mag. p. 275, 19). 

7 Cp. Euseb. praep. ev. 3. 11. 51 6 Ne?Xos, bv €& ovpavod Karapéperbae olovrat. 

8 71. 18. 399, Od. 20. 65, Hes. theag. 776 dWoppdov ’QxKeavoio. 

9 71. 14. 201 and 302 ’Qkeavdy re Deady yéveow Kal unrépa TyOvv, cp. 7b. 245 f. moramoto 
péeOpa | ’Qxeavod, ds mep yéveots mdvrecou réruxtat, Orph. 2. Okean. 83. 1 f. ’Qxeaver... | 
adavatwy te Pedy yéveow Ovntaev 7’ avOpmmrwv. The use of the word yéveots in this con- 
nexion is peculiar, and may imply that Okeanos was at one time regarded as the very seed 
of the sky-god, giving rise to a whole succession of divine forms (cp. the Tarragona tablet 
infra Append. G med.). Certain pundits in antiquity declared that Homer was bor- 
rowing from the lore of Egypt, and went about to prove that Okeanos and Tethys were 


Cok 31 


482 Apollon and Artemis 


originally-a terrestrial river forming the circumference of a discoidal 
earth, but, as E. H. Berger! has maintained, a celestial stream of 
stars. I should indeed venture to suppose that in pre-Greek times, 
before the rise of geographical speculation, the river Okeanos simply 
meant the Galaxy®. F. W. H. Myers?’ with fine imagination pictures 
the forefather of the human race as he wakes at night and sees— 


Stars in the firmament above him beaming, 
Stars in the firmament, alive and free, 

Stars, and of stars the innumerable streaming, 
Deep in the deeps, a river in the sea. 


Thirdly, the Milky Way is on occasion compared with a tree, 
whose vast trunk can be dimly descried towering through the gloom 
and branching across the midnight sky, Thus at Nuxei in the Harz 
district it is called the Wetterbaum*, weather-forecasts being drawn 
from its appearance®. It has been maintained that a similar belief 
once prevailed in southern Babylonia. A bilingual tablet, consisting 
of a Sumerian text with an interlinear Semitic translation, brought 
from the library of Ashurbanipal (668—626 B.C.) at Kouyunjik, 
contains an incantation® rendered by R. Campbell Thompson’ as 
follows: 


In Eridu groweth the dark &7Skani§ 

That springeth forth in a place undefiled, 
185 Whereof the brilliance is shining lapis 

Which reacheth unto Ocean; 

From Ea its way in Eridu 

Is bountiful in luxuriance, 

Where earth is, there is its place, 


Osiris and Isis respectively (Plout. de Zs. et Os. 34). The Egyptians believed the Nile, 
and indeed all moisture, to be Ocipidos aroppony (7d. 7b. 36), and held that living creatures 
arose from the river-slime (frag. lyr. adesp. (Pind. ?) 84. 14f. Bergk? af. Hippol. xef- 
haeres. 5. 7 p. 136 Duncker—Schneidewin, Hippys frag. 1 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 13, Miiller) 
ap. schol. Ap. Rhod. 4. 262, Diod. 1. 10, Horapoll. Azerogl. 1..25, Ov. met. 1. 422 ff.). 

1 E. H. Berger ALythische Kosmographie der Griechen Leipzig 1904 p. 1 f. 

* By a curious coincidence the Macusis of British Guiana speak of the Milky Way as 
Parana, ‘the.Sea’ (R. Schomburgk Rezsen 72 Britisch-Guiana Leipzig 1848 ii. 328 cited 
by R. Andree Zthnographische Parallelen und Vergleiche Stuttgart 1878 p. 110). 

3 F, W. H. Myers Saint Paul London 1887 p. 47- 

4 A. Kuhn Sagen, Gebrauche und Mirchen aus Westfalen Leipzig 1859 ii. 86. 

5 J. W. Wolf Beitrage zur deutschen Mythologie Gottingen 1852 i. 37- 

6 Sir H. C. Rawlinson Cuneiform Inscriptions of Western Asia London 1891 iv’. 15* 
rev, .coly, 75:53 i; ‘ ° 

_ 7 R. Campbell Thompson Zhe Devils and Evil Spirits of Babylonia London 1903 
i pp. liii—lxiii, 200 ff., 7d. Semztic Magic London 1908 p. lil. See also O. Weber Deze 
Literatur der Babylonier und Assyrer (Der Alte Orient 2. Erginzungsband) Leipzig 
1907 p. 173 f. 

8 Mr H. H. W. Pearson of the Royal Gardens at Kew suggests one of the tragacanth- 
bearing varieties of astragalus. 


Apollon and Artemis 483 


190 And the Couch of the Goddess Id its home. 
In an undefiled dwelling like a forest grove 
Its shade spreadeth abroad, and none may enter in. 
195 In its depths (are) Shamash and Tammuz. 
% * * * = 
At the confluence of two streams 
200 The gods Ka-Hegal, Shi-Dugal, (and)... of Eridu 
[Have gathered] this £¢skanz, [and over the man] 
Have performed the Incantation of the Deep, 
(And) at the head of the wanderer have set (it), 
205 That a kindly Guardian, a kindly Spirit 
May stand at the side of the man, the son of his god. 


R. Campbell Thompson took this to mean that the s7kand-plant 
(? astragalus gummtfer), growing in Eridu where two streams met, 
was plucked for medicinal use originally by the gods and later by 
men. Nothing more probable. But A. Jeremias! ten years later 
translates the opening lines— 


In Eridu grew a black #7Skanii-tree : it was created in a light place. 
Its (branches) are of glittering /afzs /azw/i and stretch out over the ocean.— 


and adds, with confident dogmatism, that the Milky Way is here 
conceived as a world-tree?. I am, however, assured by my learned 
friend the late Dr C. H. W. Johns and by Mr Sidney Smith of the 
British Museum that there is not the slightest ground for supposing 
any allusion to the Galaxy. At Eridu, near the point where the 
Euphrates and the Tigris empty into the Persian Gulf, there was 
an entrance to the Underworld. It seems possible, therefore, that 
the tree here mentioned was akin to the Borderland tree of the 
Greeks and Romans. If so, a comparison with the poplars of the 
Heliades might be justified (gum tragacanth is a passable parallel 
to amber), though to equate—as Jeremias does*—Avidu with 
Eridanés is simply laughable. 

On the whole I conclude that several traits in the myth of Phae- 
thon, including the Heliades, Kyknos, the Eridanos, etc., do point to 
an early connexion with the Milky Way. A parallel may be found 
in modern Pomerania, where it is believed that the Wild Huntsman 
marks his progress across the sky by streaks of fire and that once, 

1 A. Jeremias Handbuch der altorientalischen Geisteskultur Leipzig 1913 p. 60, zd. in 
Roscher Lex. ALyth. iv. 1492 f. 

» A. Jeremias Handbuch der altorientalischen Geisteskultur p. 60: ‘ Bei der Grund- 
stellung der Milchstrasse, bei der Orion und Skorpion im Ost- und Westpunkte des 
Horizontes stehen, wahrend die Milchstrasse sich vertikal iiber den Beschauer wolbt, 
kann sie in der Tat poetisch als Baum angesehen werden, der seine Zweige iiber Erde 
und Meer ausspannt. Der Eridanos schliesst sich direkt an die Milchstrasse beim Orion an.’ 

3 A. Jeremias Handbuch der altorientalischen Geisteskultur p. 60, td, in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. iv. 1492. 

31—2 


484 Apollon and Artemis 


venturing too high in the air, he left behind him the Milky Way, 
hence called the Wz/dbahn, as a trace of his passage’. 

It remains to notice a curious variant of the myth preserved by 
Apollonios of Rhodes, who gives the following account of the 
Argonauts’ visit to the scene of Phaethon’s disaster? : 


Then entered they Eridanos’ inmost stream, 
Where once, his breast struck by the blazing bolt, 
Phaethon fell, half-burnt, from Helios’ car 

Into the mouth of the deep mere ; and still 

From the glowing wound wells up the vapour dense. 
No bird can wing its way on pinions light 

Across that water, but it flutters, fails, 

Falls i’ the heat. And maidens all around, 

The Heliades, pent in black-poplars tall, 

Make of their misery a pitiful plaint, 

Yea, from their lids let slip bright amber-drops, 
Such as are dried by sunlight on the sand. 

But, when the waters of the darksome mere 
Wash o’er the strand, blown by some blustering wind, 
Then all that wealth is tumbled on the tide 

Into Eridanos. The Celts declare 

These are the tears of Apollon, Leto’s son, 

Borne on the eddies,—tears past numbering 

He shed in bygone days, what time he came 

To the sacred race of the Hyperboreans 

And left, at his Father’s chiding, radiant heaven, 
Wroth for the son divine Koronis bare 

In shining Lakereia at the mouth 

Of Amyros. Such the tale these tribesmen tell. 


The poet has worked into his epic a piece of local lore, which is 
both interesting and important. The Keltoi, he says, regarded amber 
as the tears, not of the poplars, but of Apollon. This lends some 
colour to a view that I put forward years ago concerning Apollon’s 
name*. The oldest form of it seems to have been Apélon, and 
Festus’ assertion that ‘the ancients used to say Afello for Apollo*’ 
is supported by a considerable body of epigraphical evidence from 
the Doric area*®. I proposed, therefore, to derive Apélon from 
apellén, ‘a black-poplar®” On this showing Apollon would be a 


1 A. Brunk ‘ Der wilde Jager im Glauben des pommerschen Volkes’ in the Zettschrift 
des Vereins fiir Volkskunde 1903 xiii. 184. 

2 Ap. Rhod. 4. 596 ff. Cp. Favorin. /ex. p. 851, 9 ff. 

3 Folk-Lore 1904 Xv. 420. 

4 Paul. ex Fest. p. 22, 14 Miiller, p. 20, 27 Lindsay Apellinem antiqui dicebant pro 
Apollinem. 

5 E. Boisacq Les dialectes doriens Paris 1891 p. 51 f., G. Meyer Griechische Grammatik® 
Leipzig 1896 p. 64 f., K. Wernicke in Pauly—-Wissowa Real-Ence. ii. 1. 

6 Hesych. dmredddv* atyerpos, 6 éore eldos Sévdpov. 


Apollon and Artemis 485 


deity associated with a grove of black-poplars like that of the 
Heliades. Now the scenery of the Eridanos, as described by the 
Rhodian poet, was more or less similar to that of Apollonia in 
Illyria, which possessed not only an ancient cult of Helios’, but also 
a Nymphaion with springs of hot water and bitumen® Close by, a 
perennial jet of flame burst from the ground, surrounded—a curious 
sight—by flourishing trees and verdant grass*, Drenching rain 
merely increased the blaze, into which the worshippers cast their 
offerings of frankincense’. Silver coins of the town, issued from 
c. 100 B.C. onwards on the standard of the Roman denarius, represent 





Fig. 371. 


three Nymphs (? Heliades), torch in hand, dancing round the sacred 
fire (fig. 369). And a copper piece, struck by Caracalla, shows the 
statue of Apollon in his temple, behind which are visible the tops of 
three trees probably, but not certainly, meant for poplars (fig. 370)°. 
The same doubt attaches to the tree seen behind Apollon S7zntheis 
on a coin of Alexandreia in the Troad, which might be either a 
poplar or a cypress (fig. 371)’. We are on surer ground, when we 
recall the love of Apollon for Dryope. Antoninus Liberalis, following 
Nikandros (c. 150 B.C.), tells her story thus®: 


1 Supra i. 410 ff. 2 Strab. 316. 

5 Plout. v. Swd/. 27 (here a Satyr was caught asleep and brought before Sulla, whom 
he scared by emitting a harsh cry ‘something between the neigh of a horse and the bleat 
of a goat’), Ail. var. hist. 13. 16. 

4 Dion Cass. 41. 45 with further detail. 

® Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 6of. pl. 12, 13 f., Henter Cat. Coins ii. 3 
pl. 31, 2, Head Coins of the Ancients p. 113 pl. 65, 13, Head AZst. num.” p. 314, 
A. Maier in the Mum. Zeitschr. 1908 pp. 5 f., 16 f. Fig. 369 is from a specimen in my 
collection. 

G. Patsch in the Compte rendu et Mémoires du congrés international de numismatique 
de Paris 1900 p. 113 records silver pieces with obv. fire of the Vyzphaion, rev. lyre. 

8 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 311 Miinztaf. 4, 36 (=my fig. 370) from a 
specimen in the collection of F. Imhoof-Blumer, Fo/k-Lore 1904 Xv. 419. 

7 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon pp. 94f., 312 Miinztaf. 5, 32 (=my fig. 371) 
from a specimen in the collection of F. Imhoof-Blumer, /o/k-Lore 1904 xv. 419. 

8 Ant. Lib. 32 (from bk. i of the ‘Erepovovueva of Nikandros). The passage is here 
summarised, not translated. 


486 ~~ Apollon and Artemis 


Dryops, son of the river Spercheios and the Danaid Polydora’, reigned on 
Mount Oite and had an only daughter Dryope, who tended her father’s flocks. 
The Hamadryads loved her exceedingly, and taught her how to hymn the gods 
and to dance. Apollon, who saw her dancing, was enamoured of her and, to 
attain his ends, became first a tortoise, which she fondled and put into her bosom, 
and thenasnake. The second change scared away the Nymphs, who left Dryope 
and her lover alone. Shortly afterwards Dryope was wedded to Andraimon, son 
of Oxylos ; but the result of her union with Apollon was the birth of Amphissos. 
He grew to man’s estate, built the town of Oite, and established a sanctuary of 
Apollon in Dryopis. When Dryope visited this sanctuary, the Hamadryads 
carried her off and hid her in the forest. In her place they caused a black-poplar 
to spring from the ground and a fountain to gush forth beside it. Dryope now 
became a Nymph. Amphissos founded a sanctuary of the Nymphs in her honour 
and a contest in running, which is still kept up. From this contest women are 
excluded, the reason given being that, when Dryope was carried off by the 
Nymphs, two maidens revealed the fact to the natives of the land and thus 
incurred the anger of the Nymphs, who transformed them into fir-trees. 


It would seem, then, that in the neighbourhood of Mount Oite 
Apollon was recognised as the consort of a black-poplar. The con- 
nexion of this tree with the god was, however, forgotten?, when 
Apollon on his way through Thessaly* acquired the bay as his 
attribute. Thenceforward Dryope gave place to Daphne. The fact 
is that the particular species of tree assigned to a god depends 
entirely, or almost entirely, upon the character of the local flora. 
At Delphoi, for example, the bay-tree was of comparatively recent 
introduction, and Ovid‘ @ propos of the earliest Pythian games states 
that ‘whosoever had won with hand or feet or wheel received the 
honour of oaken foliage (aesculeae...frondis)®: the bay as yet was 
not, and Phoebus crowned his brows, fair with their flowing tresses, 


1 Another version made Dryops the son of Apollon and of Dia, a daughter of Lykaon 
(schol. Ap. Rhod. 1. 1218, e¢. mag. p. 288, 34 f., Tzetz. zz Lyk. AZ. 480). 

* Ov. met. 9. 329 ff. contaminates the story of Dryope with that of Lotis, and trans- 
forms the former, like the latter, into a lotus-tree. 

3 A. Mommsen De/phika Leipzig 1878 p. 96, K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Real- 
Enc, ii. 110. 

4 Ov. met. 1. 445 ff. I have discussed the passage in Folk-Lorve 1904 Xv. 413. 

5 For Apollon in connexion with the oak see Gruppe Gr. AZjyth. Rel. p. 1235 n. I, 
who cites Apollon ’Acxpaios (supra p. 255, cp. Class. Rev. 1903 xvil. 416) and Apollon 
Aptpacos (schol. Lyk. AZ 522) or Aptmas at Miletos (Tzetz. zz Lyk. AZ. 522; but He- 
kataios of Miletos (? cp. frag. 356 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 28 Miiller)) ap. Strab. 321 regarded 
Aptmas as a barbaric name), Dryops son of Apollon (szfra p. 486 n. 1) and Dryope mate 
of Apollon (sara p. 485 f.), etc. A fine tetradrachm of Katane, struck ¢. 413—404 B.C., 
shows a full-faced head of Apollon crowned with oak-leaves and flanked by bow and lyre 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Sicily p. 47 fig., Hunter Cat. Coins i. 172 no. 12, G. F. Hill 
Coins of Ancient Sicily London 1903 p. 132f. pl. 9, 4, Head Hest. num. p. 133). A 
copper of Neapolis in Campania has a profile head of Apollon wearing an oak-wreath 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Italy p. 109 no. 148 fig.). Further evidence in Fo/k-Lore 1904 
xv. 417 £. 


Apollon and Artemis 487 


from the nearest tree.’ Thus it may well be that neither the bay nor 
the poplar! was the tree sacred to Apollon throughout central and 
northern Europe. In the Balkans the word for ‘poplar’ closely 
resembles the word for ‘apple? And Dr Rendel Harris has lately 
been urging, with a great array of evidence and no little per- 
suasiveness, that Apollon—incredible as it sounds—was both in 
name and in nature an ‘apple’-god*. He contends (if I follow 


1 J. Hoops Waldbiume wnd Kulturpflanzen im germanischen Altertum Strassburg 
1905 p. 230f.: ‘Die von Willkomm? [? Forst/. Flora? 519 f. 530.] ausgesprochene Ver- 
mutung, dass die Weiss- und Schwarzpappel dem nérdlichen Mitteleuropa von Haus aus 
fremd seien, wird durch das Fehlen prahistorischer Belege und den Mangel alteinheimischer 
Namen fiir die beiden Baume im Keltischen, Germanischen und Slavischen bestatigt und 
darf auf das gesamte nordalpine Europa ausgedehnt werden. Sie sind erst zur Rémerzeit 
oder im Lauf des Mittelalters aus Siideuropa eingefiihrt,’ etc. 

2 Cp. E. Berneker S/avisches etymologisches Worterbuch Heidelberg 1908—1913 i- 23 
‘skr. [=serbischkroatisch] 7a4/az m. [=mittel] alt ‘“‘Apfelbaum”’; heute ‘‘ Populus 
pyramidalis” und ‘‘ Pappelkraut, Malve.” A Serbian friend of mine, Mr A. Slavko 
Jonke, writes: ‘When I was a boy, living in Croatia, I used to call the poplar-tree éb/an. 
But, when I went to live for four years among the Slovenians of Gorizia, Ljubljana, and 
Trsat, I found to my surprise that they called the apple-tree 7aéde/na.’ 

3 J. Rendel Harris Zhe Origin of the Cult of Apollo (extr. from the Bulletin of the 
John Rylands Library Manchester January to March 1916) Manchester 1916 p. 21 ff. 
=zd, The Ascent of Olympus Manchester 1917 p. 36 ff. relies on data which might be 
expanded as follows: 

(t) The cult of Apollon Madedras at Trikke in Thessaly (M. Frankel in the Zzsecr. 
Gr. Pelop. i no. 950C, 27 ff.=P. Cavvadias Fouilles a’ Epidaure Athénes 1893 i. 34 ff. 
no. 7, 27 ff. cited zzfra Append. L swéb fin.), at Epidauros (Paus. 2. 27. 7 temple of 
Apollon MaXearns on Mt Kynortion, cp. M. Frankel in the Zrzscr. Gr. Pelop. i no. 925, 
arf. [rploéév]olu]s etuer x[ai] Ae[apo]ddxolus tod "Amd\Nwvos] | rod [M]a[A]edra Kalt r]od 
’Aokdarod, no. 931, 2 f. €v Emid[avipux év rod ’Amé\Nwvos ToD Ma]|\edra kal Tod ’Aa[KNamLod 
iep&], no. 932, 51 f. év rat lep@ | Tod "Amwd\wvos TOO Madedra Kal Tod “Ack\arvod, no. 944, 
17 f. €v T&e iep&x Tod "AmdANwVOS TOD Made a]|Ta kal Tov ’AckNamvov, no. g50,.2 >Amd\AwrE 
Manedra kal ’Ackdamiau, 27 ff. cited zufra Append. L sb fin., no. 956, 3 ff. ’Améd\\Awve 
Manedra Kal | Swripe ’Ackdamig | kar’ dvap, no. torr, 2 f. PAmd\Aw]|\ye Madeadra x[al 
*AokAnTid Lwripe), no. 1016, 1 ff. "Awd\Nwye | Madeata | Vwripe | 6 lepeds | Avoyévns an 
inscription of 297 A.D., no. 1079, 1 ff. ’Amwé\[wvos] | Ma[Ae]d[r]a. | Ké\ados KeXa|dou 
mupopol|pnoas | with later addition of kai Ovpavias, on which see Frankel ad doc., no. 1179, 1 
’Amé\NwYt Ma[Nedra kal ’AockAnmi@], no. 1185 4, 2 [Ma]Aea[r —], no. 1536, 1 ff. "Eradpd- 
derros Ae|wvidov, ieparody|oas *Amé\Nwyr Mal\edra TO me’ Eros (= 168 a.D.), | Téxars, 
no. 1539, I ff. 6 lepeds Tod | Madedra ’AmdA\Awvos Kal GeGv | Afociwy dia Blov, | AvEnoia, 
Iloou|daéveos, érous | pd’ (=307 A.D.)), at Sparta (Paus. 3. 12. 8 Aaxedamovios dé eore 
bev ’Améd\wvos *Akpita Bwuds, éore 5° érovouafouevoy Vaonmrov (R. Porson cj. Dacemrov) 
iepdv Dfjs* ’Amrd\Nwy dé brep adrd iSpuvrac Madearns). Cp. the association of Madeadrns 
with Apollon at Athens (Corf. zuscr. Att. ii. 3 no. 1651, 1 ff. = Michel Recwezl d’LZnsecr. gr. 
no. 672, 1 ff.=Dittenberger Syl/. znscr. Gr.* no. 631, 1 ff.= Roberts—Gardner Gr. Epigr. 
ii. 379 no. 133, t ff. Qeol. | kara Tdde mpobterGa\e’ Madearm morava tp\ia* *Améd\\wve 
morava T\pia* “Epun wémava rpila: x.7.\. an inscription from the sanctuary of Asklepios 
in the Peiraieus) and dedications to Madedras from Prasiai in Lakonike (Zuscr. Gr. Arc. 
Lac. Mess. i no. 927 Xdpid(d)os avéOnxe Tt Madeara: on the base of a bronze statuette of 
a warrior, no. 929 Madedra | Madéats on the sides of.a small bronze ram, no. 929 ¢ 
’AmrdAXw|vos Ma|Aedr(a) on stone)... As to the significance of this title, Isyllos (Zrscr, Gr. 





488 Apollon and Artemis 


Pelop. i no. 950 C, 27 ff.) derives it from an eponymous hero M@Xos, of whom he (zd. 
no. 950 Z, 4o ff.) gives the following stemma: 


Zeus 
Malos= Erato 
ran = Phlegyas 
Aigla (Koronis) = Apollon 
Asklapios 


Isyllos twice (2. no. 950 C, 27 and 31) ends a hexameter with the appellative Madeara. 
It is natural to suppose that he scanned it Ma@\edra. But, in view of his derivation from 
M@ios, it is at least possible that he scanned by synizesis Ma\éara. Accordingly Rendel 
Harris, like H. Usener Gédternamen Bonn 1896 p. 146 f. and S. Eitrem Die géttlichen 
Zwillinge bet den Griechen (Videnskabsselskabets Skrifter. 11. Historisk-filos. Klasse 1902 
No. 2) Christiania 1902 pp. 100 n. 3, 116, would derive Ma\edras from wahéa, ‘apple-tree,’ 
cp. Dionysos Zuxedrns (Hesych. s.v.) from ovxéa. To me it seems more probable that 
MaAedrys is the ethnic from Madéa or Madécu (cp. Juscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. i no. 929 
(Prasiai) Madedra | Madéats and no. 1519 (Tyros) ’AméAovos éu [Madéacs] on a small 
bronze lion), the well-known promontory of S.E. Lakonike, whence also Zeus Madeuaios 
(Steph. Byz. s.v. Madéa). i 

(2) The cult of Apollon Madées in Lesbos (Thouk. 3. 3 a festival of Apollon Madées 
outside Mytilene, Zzscv. Gr. cus. ii no. 484, 18 ff. (Hiera) ras | re ’Apréusdos kal ’Am6dd- 
ANwvos | Mad(de)vros apxtxopoy kal ie|poxdpuxa Trav yepéwy ¢[a]|Képwv Dawrnpos ’Ackdynri|w 
=O. Hoffmann De Griechischen Dialekte Gottingen 1893 ii. 119 f. no. 168, 18 ff., who 
reads le|poxdpuxa ré&v (i)epéwy after F. Bechtel in Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dzal.-Znschr. i. 98 
no. 255, 18 ff., cp. A. Conze Reise auf der Insel Lesbos Hannover 1865 p. 53 f. pl. 17, 1, 
Kallim. frag. 543 Schneider af. Choirobosk. zz Theodos. can. masc. 3 (i. 152, 13 ff. 
Hilgard) rovodrov ydp éore kai mupa Kadrdcuaxw ‘6 dé deldwy Maddes nO xopds,” avi Tod 
Ma des Madders 6é €orw 0 AéoBios= Bekker anecd. iii. 1187 fiz., Herodian. rep ra9av 
frag. 326 (ii. 278, 4f. Lentz) and epi dvoudrwy, mepi ray eis Ets (ii. 619, 6 ff. Lentz)). 
The divine title (Hesych. s.v. Mad[A]oes* ’Awréd\Awvos érlOerov, 7) émuvumov) was identical 
with a Lesbian place-name (Steph. Byz. s.v. Mad[A]oeus* "AméANwv év AéoBw. Kal 6 Tdmos 
Tov iepod Mad{[A]decs, dard ro? Mou (leg. undov) 774s Mavrobs, ws “EAXavixos év Nec Bixav 
mpwrw (frag. 117 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 60)), Zuscr. Gr. ins. ii no. 74, 5 €v Maddevre popov 
=O. Hoffmann of. cit. ii. 66 f. no. go, 5, Aristot. vent. set. et appell. 973.4 10 f. evoxde? 
6€ (sc. Kacxtas) tov Mirudnvaiwy Awéva, uadiora 6€ Tov Maddevra with A. Conze of. cit. 
p- 7). The aetiological myth, briefly alluded to by Steph. Byz. oc. cz¢., is given more 
fully in the Patmian scholia on Thouk. 3. 3 published by I. Sakkelion in the Rev. Phalol. 
N.S. 1877 i. 185: Madéers "Ard\Awy* ovTos mapa Muirvdnvatos ériuairo, amd Toadbrys dé 
twos airias. Mavra& h Terpeciov Ovyarnp rept rods Témous Xopevouca TovToUs, UHOV XpucodY 
amd To0 Teptdepalov dmwderev* evEaTo ody, ef etipor, lepdv Ldptcew TH Hew. Evbpodca dé Td 
pAdov, TO lepdv ldpicaro, kal Manders ’Arrd\Awy évreibev map’ avtots éryudro. The myth 
makes it clear that Apollon’s epithet Madders was connected, not with Madéa the S.E. 
headland of Lesbos, but with u#\ov, an ‘apple.’ Presumably, then, it was a local title 
derived from Ma)ées, the ‘ Apple ’-district N. of Mytilene. If so, it may or may not give 
us some hint as to the character of the god himself. 

(3) At Nisaia, the port of Megara, was an old sanctuary of Demeter Madogdpos with 
a ruined roof: among the explanations offered of the cult-epithet was that it had been 
given to the goddess by the first men who reared sheep (u#Aa) in the country (Paus. r. 
44. 3). Rasche Zex. Num. vi. 406 and Welcker Gr. Gotterl. il. 474 cite a copper of 
Pagai, the other port of Megara, struck by Septimius Severus, on which appears Demeter 
(? Artemis Zwrecpa, cp. Paus. 1. 40. 2f. with 1. 44. 4. A.B.C.) with a torch in either 
hand treading on rocky ground and preceded bya ram. But, since wa@da, ‘sheep,’ is only 


Apollon and Artemis 489 


a hyper-Dorism for wda (E. Boisacq Les dialectes doriens Paris—Liége 1891 p. 47 n. 1), 
it is far more probable that Madogépos means ‘ Apple-bearing,’ and that we should 
interpret in this sense Kallim. 2. Dem. 138 pépBe Boas’ pépe uGda, pépe ordxuv: oice 
Gepopov: see O. Schneider ad /oc., who aptly quotes schol. //. 9. 542 (avrots dv ect ujrwr) 
Lmrodpdpov 6é kal rhv Ajunrpay tiuGow. Selinous, founded by Dorians from the Sicilian 
Megara and therefore a grand-daughter of Megara in Greece, maintained the worship of 
the goddess (A. Salinas in the Woz. Scavz 1894 p. 208 ff. =F. Blass in Collitz—Bechtel Gr. 
Dial.-Inschr. iii. 2. 238 f. no. §213 on a tufa-base with a small cornice OévAXos Iuppia | 
avéOnxe rat | Madodpdpux | ed(x)dv: évréda, cp. Hesych. s.v. euméda* eurédafe, mpooaye, 
eyyefe 3 Inscr. Gr. Sic. Jt. no. 268=F. Bechtel in Collitz-—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Jnschr. iii. t. 
26f. no. 3046=Dittenberger Sy//. tzscr. Gr. no. 751 on a tufa-block from the left ava 
of the ¢dyton of the temple of Apollon at Selinous in lettering of c. 450 B.C. [d:]Ja Tas Oews 
Tw[o}de vixdvre rol Ledwady[rvor’] | [dcJa Tov Ala vukGmes kal dua Tov HoBoy [xai] | [d}a 
“Hpaxdéa kal 6 ’AméddAXwva Kai dead I [or]le[cdava cal did Tuvdapldas cal dv ’AO[a]|y[allav 
kal dua Maropédpoy cai dia Macuk!pa[rjecay cal dia Tws dAAws Oews, [O}id dé Ala | wddior[la]. 
pirlals] dé yevoudvas évxpua|éw[s] édd[oalvra[s, Ta O°] dvimara Taira Ko\\awayr[as és] 7d 
*A[m]oN[A]wvrov xabP€uely, 7d Acd[s mpo]ypalWa]vres (szc)* 7d 5€ xpuciov | éEnxo[yra T]adav- 
Twv nuev). The Macedonian month Madopépuos (cited from the dictionary of Papias the 
Lombard (1053—1063 A.D.) by K. F. Hermann in PAz/ologus 1847 ii. 262: see also 
E. F. Bischoff ‘ De fastis Graecorum antiquioribus’ in Lezpziger Studien fiir classische 
Philologie vii Leipzig 1884 p. 374 with n. 6 (= Pyanopsion)) perhaps implies a festival of 
Demeter Madogépos. In any case we have no reason to connect the title with Apollon. 

(4) In the grove of Apollon at Gryneia in S. Aiolis was an ancient oracle (Steph. 
Byz. s.v. Tpdva, cp. Verg. Ae. 4. 345). Here Kalchas and Mopsos were said to have 
had a contest in seer-craft, each attempting to divine the number of apples on a certain 
tree. Mopsos won, and Kalchas died of chagrin (Euphorion af. Serv. zz Verg. ecl. 6. 72 
=Myth. Vat. £. 194, 2. 224). 

Apollod. efzt. 6. 2 f. and Strab. 642, following Hes. frag. 169 Flach, 160 Rzach (cp. 
the mostod as summarised by Proklos in G. Kinkel Exycorum Graecorum fragmenta 
Lipsiae 1877 p. 53: Konon arr. 6 deviates widely), state that the contest took place 
near Kolophon in the grove of Apollon KXdpios, which likewise possessed an ancient 
oracle. Kalchas, returning from Troy on foot with Amphilochos son of Amphiaraos (cp. 
Theopomp. frag. 112 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 296 Miiller) af. schol. Z/. 2. 135, Quint. Smyrn. 
14. 360 ff.), had reached Klaros (cp. Kallinos frag. 8 Bergk* af. Strab. 668), when he 
fell in with a better seer than himself, Mopsos son of Teiresias’ daughter Manto, and died 
of vexation. Kalchas had asked Mopsos how many figs there were on a certain wild 
fig-tree. Mopsos had said: ‘Ten thousand,—you can measure them with a bushel, and 
there will be one fig over.’. This answer had proved to be correct, and straightway Kalchas 
had died. Strab. 643 says that, according to Pherekydes (frag. 95 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 94 
Miiller)), the numerical question concerned the unborn litter of a sow; and that others 
combined this version with that of the wild fig-tree. He adds (2d. 643 and 675) that in 
Sophokles’ ‘Edévys arairnots (frag. 180 Jebb) Kalchas was fated to die when he met a 
better seer than himself, and that the scene of his contest with Mopsos and his subsequent 
death was here transferred to Kilikia, which the poet inexactly termed Pamphylia (see, 
however, Hdt. 7. 91, Strab. 668, Paus. 7. 3. 7). Tzetz. zz Lyk. Al. 427, 440, 980, 1047 
mentions both Kolophon and Kilikia, the wild fig-tree and the sow, cp. Eustath. zz 
Dionys. Zev. 850. The sequel too deserves notice. According to one version, Amphilochos 
and Mopsos founded Mallos in Kilikia. Amphilochos then departed to Argos, entrusting 
his kingdom to Mopsos for a year. At the year’s end he returned; but Mopsos would not 
give up the kingdom. So they quarrelled, and slew one another in single fight (Euphorion 
ap. Tzetz. zn Lyk. Al. 440, Strab. 675 f., cp. Cic. de divin. 1. 88, Loukian. Alex. 29, 
concil. deor. 12). According to another version, Amphilochos son of Alkmaion on his 
return from Troy was carried by a storm to Kolophon (schol. Od. 13. 259) and so en- 
countered Mopsos. The two met in single combat to decide the kingship, and succeeded 
in slaying each other (Apollod. eft. 6. 19, cited by Tzetz. ix Lyk. AZ. 440). 


490 Apollon and Artemis 


A very similar story is connected with Siris in Lucania.. Herakles, when driving the 
cattle of Geryon, saw Kalchas—not the son of Thestor mentioned above, but a seer of 
the same name—-sitting under a wild fig-tree, and asked him how many figs were on the 
tree. Kalchas replied: ‘Ten bushels, and one fig over, which you cannot get into them.’ 
Herakles proceeded to measure the figs and, despite all his efforts, failed to get in the 
extra one. Kalchas laughed at him. Thereupon Herakles with a blow of his fist slew 
the seer, and buried him beside the fig-tree (schol. Lyk. 4/. 978 and g8o: allusions in 
Lyk. AZ. 978 ff., 1047 with Tzetz. ad locc.). Since Siris was colonised from Kolophon 
(J. Oehler in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2833 f.), it is likely enough that the Colopho- 
nian account of Kalchas’ contest was brought over to Siris,.and there perhaps attached to 
the Daunian king Kalchos (Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 923 f.). 3 

These stories are of deep interest as implying a contest @ outrance for the position of 
priestly king. They are, in fact, the attenuated Greek equivalent of the contest at Nemi: 
cp. e.g. the language of Tzetz. iz Lyk. Al. 1047 ’Audidoxos 52 Kara Twas cuvaipetrar TY 
Méyw ro'itw rept THs apxs THS mavTixfs povouaxyjoas. It is indeed probable that the 
apple-tree at Gryneia and the wild fig-tree at Kolophon were sacred trees, like that of 
Diana Nemorensis. If so, it may be maintained that Apollon Tptveios was specially 
connected with apples. 

(5) Apples were given as prizes at the Pythian games (Max. Tyr. dzss. 5. 8 Diibner 
’Odvupmidor méev kal IlvO0t otk éverte KéTwov aBetv, ovde unrtwv TuXEiv, atToy Ed’ EavToU 
Kovicadmevoyv, GNA avTaywvioTay bet TH KnpUymari, 7. 4 Diibner peracxelv uw Korivov udvov 





Fig. 372. Fig. 375. 


Odummiaow, ANAG Kal mirvos IoOucKis, Kal ceNivov ’Apyod.Kod, kal ujrwy TvOcKdr, Anth. 
Pal. 9. 357 (adéspoton: ’Apxiov Plan.) récoapés elow dyaves av’ ‘Eada, Téocapes ipol, | of 
dvo0 ev OvnraGy, ot dio & abavdrwyr, | Zyvds, Anrotdao, Ia\aimovos, ’Apxeudporo* | aOda de 
T&v KoTWos, wpa, cé\wa, mirvs=Auson. ec/. 20 (p. 103 Peiper) quattuor antiquos cele- 
bravit Achaia ludos. | caelicolum duo sunt et duo festa hominum. | sacra Iovis Phoebique, 
Palaemonis Archemorique, | serta quibus pinus, malus, oliva, apium. -Cp. Phlegon 
frag. i cited supra p. 466 n. 11), and are represented in connection with them on imperial 
coppers of Delphoi (4rzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Central Greece p. 30 pl. 4, 23 and 24 (=my 
fig. 372) obv. OEA® AYCTEINA Bust of Faustina Senior to right; ev. TV O1 A 
Agonistic table, on which are a crow, five apples, and a bay-wreath. Fig. 373, from a 
specimen in my collection, is similar, except that it shows a vase also on the table. Cp. 
J. N. Svoronos in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1896 xx. 46 ff. pl. 30, 1—8, where the apples 
are wrongly described as ogatpléia, Anson Mum. Gr. i. 98 nos. 943 f. pl. 17), of Philippo- 
polis in Thrace (47z¢. AZus. Cat. Coins The Tauric Chersonese, etc. p. 165 no. 36 obv. 
AVTKMAVPCEVH ANTQOQNEINOC Bust of Caracalla to left, laureate; rev. 
KOINONOPAKXLNAAE ZANAPIAEN®IAIL MOTTO Déskos-thrower standing 
to left with déskos and three apples in his hands. Across the field is TTV OIA, p- 166 
no. 37 fig. (=my fig. 374) obv. The same inscription. Bust of Caracalla to right, radiate ; 
rev. KOINONOPAK 21 NAAEZANAP IAEN®IAITT TTOTTOA! Agonistic 
table, on which is an urn inscribed TTVOIA containing two palms. Beneath the table 


Apollon and Artemis 4g1 


are an amphora, a palm, and five apples, p. 166 no. 38 similar, p. 166 no. 39 oév. Similar 
inscription and bust; ev KOINON OPA AAEZAN EN@®I AITTTTOTT OAI 
Similar type: but the urn on the table contains five apples, and beneath the table 
are a palm and an amphora. B. V. Head describes the apples as ‘balls or discs.’ 
G. Macdonald in the Hunter Cat. Coins i. 444 no. to Caracalla, 445 no. 13 Elagabalos 
calls them ‘ balls’), of Ankyra in Galatia (Brit. AZus. Cat. Coins Galatia, etc. p. 13 pl. 3, 
1 (=my fig. 375) obv. AN....... AVTFOVCTOC Bust of Caracalla to right, laureate ; 
vev. MHTPOTT [ANK]VPAL ILCOTTIVOI A Agonistic table, on which is an urn, 
containing a palm-branch, placed between two purses: beneath the table are five apples, 
p- 13 pl. 3, 2 ov. ANTONIN OCTTIOCAVE Similar bust; ~ev. M4 TPOTTO 
AEANKVPALC ICOTIVO IA Agonistic urn inscribed ATQLN, containing a palm- 
branch: above the urn are five apples. W. Wroth describes the apples as ‘balls,’ as does 
Anson Mum. Gr. i. 60 no. 683 pl. 10, i. 66 no. 724 pl. rr), and of Tralleis in Lydia 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 357 no. 181 067. PPOV CABTP ANKVAAEINA 
Bust of Tranquillina to right; ev. TPAAAIL ANQLN beneath an agonistic table, .on 
which are five apples between two prize-wreaths. In the field to left and right TTVOIA 
and OAYMTTIA. Above, ETT? In the exergue, PIAITTTTOV KENTA). Thus all 
the evidence for this custom, whether literary or numismatic, belongs to the second and 
third centuries of our era,—unless indeed Anth. Pal. 9. 357 can be attributed to Cicero’s 
client A. Licinius Archias, which is very doubtful (see R. Reitzenstein in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. ii. 463 f.). 

(6) Coins of Eleuthernai in Crete, from c. 480 8.c. onwards, show Apollon holding a 
spherical object (J. N. Svoronos Mumesmatique de la Crete anctenne Macon 1890 i. 130 ff. 





pl. rr, 4—6, 8—11, 14—18, 22—30, pl. 12, 1—5, 7, Bret. Mus. Cat. Coins Crete etc. 
p- 33 ff. pl. 8, 5—8, to—13, Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 182 f. pl. 41, 15—17, Head Hist. 
num.” p. 464 f.), which has been variously interpreted. It is described as #zalum or 
fomum by the older numismatists (see also Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 307 n.*), 
including Eckhel Doctr. num. vet.2 ii. 311 f. and Rasche Lex. Mum. iii. 586, Suppl. ii. 
748; and its resemblance to the apple held in the hand e.g. of Aphrodite or Venus on 
other coins (Rasche of. cit. vi. 1702, x. 841, 847 ff., 855, 859, 870, 875 ff.) is evident. 
Miiller—Wieseler Denkm. d. alt. Kunst ii. 94 pl. 12, 135% regards the small round thing 
held by the standing Apollon as an ‘ Apfel,’ the relatively larger round thing held by the 
seated Apollon as a ‘ Diskos’ or a ‘ Kugel’—the one reminiscent of Hyakinthos, the 
other a cosmic or solar globe. B. Pick in the Jahrd. d. hais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1898 xiii. 
173 n. 128 says: ‘die Art, wie er den Gegenstand hilt, ist sehr verschieden, zuweilen 
aber lasst sie die Deutung des Attributs als Salbgefass oder als Granatapfel ganz unméglich 
erscheinen.’ J. N. Svoronos of. cé¢. i. 130 ff. calls it in succession ‘ peut-étre une pierre,’ 
“une pierre,’ and ‘un disque.’ W. Wroth in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Crete ete. 
pp. xxvi ff., 33 ff., G. Macdonald in the Hunter Cat. Coins loc. cit., and B. V. Head in his 
fist. num.” loc. cit. all make it a ‘stone,’ presumably. influenced by the stone-throwing 
Talos on coins of Phaistos and the stone-throwing Minotaur on coins of Knossos (supra i. 
720 f. figs. 534—536). J. de Foville in the Rev. Num. iv Série 1902 vi. 454 ff. fig. 
(=my fig. 376) publishes a copper of Eleuthernai, on which Apollon’s head is surrounded 
by a radiate circle (cp. supra i: 544 n. g), and infers that the sphere held by him may 


492 Apollon and Artemis 


perhaps be ‘ un globe solaire, pareil a celui que les Egyptiens, voisins des Crétois, placent 
sur le front d’Ammon-Ra.’ None of these explanations is free from doubt, and I now 
incline to think that a more satisfactory result may be reached by considering the earliest 
known coin of the town (E. Muret in the Rev. Mum. iii Série 1883 i. 65 pl. 2, 4, 
F. Lenormant 74. p. 129 ff., W. Wroth in the Mam. Chron. Third Series 1884 iv. 29 
pl. 2, 5 (=my fig. 377), Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 307 Miinztaf. 3, 12, 
J. N. Svoronos of. cit. p. 130 pl. 11, 4: odv. Apollon, nude except for a belt, stepping 
left towards a height on which grows a storax-tree. The god carries a bow in his 
left hand, a spherical object in his right, and is accompanied by a hound. In the 
field behind him is a second storax-tree. All in a circle of dots; vev. JA@VJ 14 
Artemis, in a long chztén, standing to right, shoots an arrow from her bow. She too is 
accompanied by a hound (? stag A.B.C.). All in a square of dots). It is highly probable 
that this coin represents Apollon Zzupaxirns (Steph. Byz. s.v. Zrupdkcov) repairing to 
Mt Styrakion in Crete (Steph. Byz. doc. cé¢., Eustath. 27 //. p. 281, 13) with his bow and 
hound. It is an odd coincidence, but no more, that Zr’pat (=cavpwrjp) was a name 
recommended by Xenophon as suitable for a hound (Xen. cyz. 7. 5). Now Gruppe G7. 
Myth. Rel. p. 789 infers from Hdt. 3. 107, Plin. mat. ist. 12. 81 that in the Levant 
otvpaé was a substitute for \¢Bavwrés, ‘white-incense,’ and suggests that on Greek soil 
AevKn, ‘white-poplar,’ was a surrogate of orvpat, both having a white under-surface to 
their leaves. It is therefore tempting to surmise that the storax-trees of Eleuthernai were 





Fig. 378. Fig. 379. ’ Fig. 381. 


analogous to the poplar-trees of the Eridanos, Apollonia (?), etc. (Steph. Byz. s.v. “Azroh- 
Awvia 23 mentions Apollonia as a later name of Eleuthernai, and notes that 6 dvoikds 
Avoyér7s, z.c. Diogenes 6 ’Aro\\wndrns, was a native of this town: cp. the countermark 
ATT on the copper of Eleuthernai (supra fig. 376)), and thence to conclude that the globe 
on the hand of Apollon is a ball of resin from the bark of the storax-trees comparable 
with the drops of amber believed to exude from the poplars. It is significant that the 
balsamic juice known as ‘liquid storax’ is obtained by incision from a tree, whose 
botanical name is Ziguidambar orientalis. 

The Apollon of Eleuthernai appears also on silver coins of the neighbouring town 
Rhithymna, struck ¢c. 400 B.c. (J. N. Svoronos of. cit. i. 308 pl. 30, 1, Brzt. Mus. Cat. 
Cozns Crete etc. pp. xxvii, 78 pl. 19, 8, Head Ast. num.? p. 477). 

At Selge in Pisidia coppers of s. ii B.c. represent the head of Herakles wreathed with 
storax (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lycia, etc. pp. cxvif., 261 pl. 40, 7 f.), while coppers of 
imperial date have two storax-trees fenced round as objects of worship and flanked by 
club and thunderbolt, the symbols of Herakles and Zeus respectively (Art. Mus. Cat. 
Coins Lycia pp. cxvii, 264 nos. 68 f. Hadrian, 266 no. 78 pl. 41, 3 (=my fig. 378) 
Severus Alexander, 267 no. 84 pl. 41, 5 (=my fig. 379) Salonina, no. 86 pl. 41, 6 (=my 
fig. 380) Aurelian). See further Imhoof-Blumer Monn. gr. pp. 342—345, who cites inder 
alia Strab. 570 f., and notes that the tree of Herakles is always larger than the tree of 
Zeus. F. Lajard Recherches sur le culte, les symboles, les attributs, et les monuments Jigureés 
de Vénus, en orient et en occident Paris 1837 pp. 136 f., 168 pl. 3, 2 (=my fig. 381) 


Apollon and Artemis 493 


his argument aright) that Apdé//on was a term borrowed by the 
Greeks from some Teutonic tongue which, like Gothic, represented | 
the original 4 of the Indo-Europaean *adela-, *ablu-1 by a p. But, 
since Apollon is well-known to Homer, this involves the assumption 
that the change of Indo-Europaean 4 to Teutonic / took place at a 
very much earlier date (¢. 1200—1I300 B.C.) than is commonly 
supposed (c. 200—300 B.C.). At that remote epoch we should 
expect to find the Greeks in contact with Thracians or Illyrians 
rather than with Teutons. And who can assure us that Illyrians 
or Thracians pronounced ‘apple’ with a #? So for the present 
Dr Rendel Harris’ attractive hypothesis must remain hypothetical. 
Be that as it may, the extract cited above from Apollonios of 
Rhodes brings us back to the Hyperboreans again. Apollon (said 
the Keltoi), when banished by Zeus from heaven, was sent—not to 
Admetos king of Thessaly—but to the Hyperboreans. Once more 
we are led to suspect that the Hyperborean land lay well to the 
north of Greece. And the context implies that it was located at 
some point on the Amber Road? Already in neolithic times one 


published a specimen in the Bibliotheque Nationale, struck by Caracalla, which shows 
the trees surmounted by two birds. 

[(7) Coppers of Olbia, struck probably in s. i A.D. have odv. OA BIOTTO Bust of 
Apollon to right ; vev. A AA OC CATY (i.e. Addos Zarvpou the érchon) Nude Apollon, 
who stands facing us with a 4dé/athos on his head, a bow and arrow in his left hand, and 
a round object in his right (B. Pick in the /ahrd. d. hats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1898 xiii. 
172f. pl. 10, 31, Miss G. M. Hirst in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1902 xxii. 253 ff. fig. 2, 
E. H. Minns Scythians and Greeks Cambridge 1913 pp. 473, 477 pl. 3, 16, A. von Sallet 
in Ant. Miinz. Berlin Yaurische Chersonesus, etc. i. 27 no. 124). As to the nature of the 
round object B. Pick /oc. cit. suggests ‘ein Salbgefass...oder ein Granatapfel’ and cp. the 
archaic statuette of Apollon from Naxos, now in the Berlin Museum (M. Frankel in 
the Arch. Zeit. 1879 xxxvii. 84 ff. pl. 7 ‘Salbgefiss,’ E. Curtius 2. p. 97 ‘ Granatapfel,’ 
A. Furtwangler in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 451f. fig. Sein kleines kugeliges henkelloses 
Gefiiss,’ Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Apollon p. 35 ff. fig. 8 ‘ Salbgefiiss,’ zd. Gr. Plastik+ 
i. 245 f. fig. 65, 2 ‘ Salbgefaiss’), together with a tetradrachm struck at Sinope in s. iii B.c. 
(F. Imhoof-Blumer in the Zeztschr. f. Num. 1897 xx. 272 f. no. 1 pl. 10, 6, Waddington— 
Babelon—Reinach Monn. gr. d’As. Min. i. 192 pl. 25, 32, Head Hest. num.” p. 508) ; 
but A. von Sallet /oc. c7¢. says ‘in der R. Schale’ and E. H. Minns af. céz. pl. 3, 16 
speaks of ‘ bow and patera (?).’] 

? Schrader Keallex.” p. 53. 

2 On the various routes by which amber from the north reached the south of Europe 
see J. N. von Sadowski Die Handelsstrassen der Griechen und Romer durch das Fluss- 
gebiet der Oder, Weichsel, des Dniepr und Niemen an die Gestade des Baltischen Meeres 
Aus dem Polnischen von A. Kohn Jena 1877, H. Genthe ‘ Ueber die Beziehungen der 
Griechen und R6mer zum Balticum’ in the Verh. d. 36. Philologenversamml. in Karls- 
ruhe 1882 pp. 17—31, F. Waldmann Der Bernstein im Altertum (Separatabdruck aus dem 
Programm des livl. Landesgymnasiums fiir das Jahr 1882) Fellin 1883 (pp. 37—67 ‘ Von 
dem Bernsteinhandel, dessen Betrieb, Ausbreitung und Strassen im Altertum,’ p. 85 f. 
‘ Bernsteinfunde an den Handelsstrassen ’), O. Olshausen ‘ iiber den alten Bernsteinhandel 
der cimbrischen Halbinsel und seine Beziehungen zu den Goldfunden’ in the Zedtschrif¢ 
fiir Ethnologie 1890 xxii Verhandlungen p. 270 ff., zd. ‘iiber den alten Bernsteinhandel 


494 Apollon and Artemis 


branch of this great trade-route ran direct from the Baltic to the 
Black Sea, traversing the valleys of the Vistula and the Dniester, 
while a second branch, passing along the Elbe, the Moldau, the 
Danube, came down to the Adriatic, the Balkans, and Greece’. In 
the Bronze Age and the Early Iron Age the Elbe-Danube-Adriatic 
route was extensively used by the amber-trade®. It may therefore 
be regarded as reasonable to place the Hyperboreans of the myth 
pretty much where Pindar placed them, near ‘the shady springs 
of Istros*,’ 

This location is to some extent confirmed by recent enquiries 
into the etymology of the name Hyperbdreot. In 1892 W. Prellwitz* 
first propounded the view that 5oréas means the wind ‘from the 
mountain’ (Church Slavonic gora)—a view accepted in 1898 by 
H. Pedersen® and in 1go1 by O. Schrader’. Pedersen accordingly 
takes the word hyperboreos to denote ‘beyond the mountains.’ In 
3g05 O. Schroeder’ argued that the Hyperboreans were, not an 
idealised earthly tribe, but a ‘ Wzmmelsvolk’ of divinised heroes. 
Belief in them arose in a land where and at a time when the word 
for ‘mountain’ was *éér7zs—a form presumed for the pre-Greek 
dialects of northern Greece. Now the highest mountain between 
the rivers Haliakmon and Axios is the ancient Lova* or modern 
Nidje, which attains an elevation of over 2000™*, We must conceive 
of the Ayperbéreot as dwelling, not on the earth ‘beyond Bora”, 
but in the sky ‘above Bora". Schroeder’s conclusions were approved 
in 1914 by R. Giinther and Daebritz”. In the same year Kiessling” 
admitted that Hyperbdreot really meant ‘above Bora, but insisted 
that. from the beginning of s. v B.C, it was interpreted ‘beyond 


und die Goldfunde’ 2d. 1891 xxiii Verhandlungen p. 286 ff., H. Bliimner in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 298 f., Schrader Reallex.* pp. 96—101. 

1 J. Déchelette Manuel d’archéologie préhistorigue Paris 1908 i. 626 f. 

2 Td. op. cit. Paris 1910 ii. 1. 19 ff., 1913 il. 2. 872 ff., 1914 il. 3. 1327 ff., 1573 ff. As 
to roads down the eastern side of the Adriatic, A. J. B. Wace and M. S. Thompson 
Prehistoric Thessaly Cambridge 1912 p. 3 observe: ‘The main route from north to south 
seems to have come down Central Epirus to Ambracia (Arta, “Apra), and thence to have 
crept round the coast past Amphilochian Argos into the lower Achelous valley.’ 

3 Supra p. 465. 

4 Prellwitz Etym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr p. 50, id. 16.7 p. 81. 

° H. Pedersen in the Zeitschrift fiir vergleichende Sprachforschung 1898 xxxVi. 319. 

§ Schrader Reallex. p. 956. 

7 O. Schroeder ‘ Hyperboreer’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1905 viii. 79 f., 82 f. 

8 Liv. 45. 29 quarta regio trans Boram montem, una parte confinis Illyrico, altera 


Epiro. 
° H. Kiepert Hormae orbis antigui Berlin 1894 xvii Ji gives the altitude as 2320, 
10 Cp. brepmrévruos. 11 Cp. vmepaxptos. 


1! R. Giinther and Daebritz in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ix. 260. 
13 Kiessling in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i A. 857 f. 


Apollon and Artemis 495 


‘Boreas, the word dora, ‘mountain,’ having wholly dropped out of 
use. Hence—he inferred—neither the true (modern) derivation 
nor the false (ancient) derivation can explain the fact that the 
‘Hyperboreans were so early located to the north of the Rhipai. This 
must be due to the primitive astronomical belief that the sun dis- 
appeared at night behind a huge mountain in the north. In 1916 
Miss G. H. Macurdy! wrote: ‘Helios-Paean-Apollo was the Sun 
god worshipped with Artemis Basileia in Paeonia-Pieria, and the 
Hyperborean legend connects this worship with the cult of Apollo 
and Artemis beyond the Bora.’ Miss Macurdy drew attention to the 
fact that the vwza Egnatia, which ran from Dyrrhachion through 
Makedonia and Thrace to Byzantion?, passed close to Mount Bora, 
and she suggested ‘that the same gift of poetic imagination to which 
we owe the myth of the sisters of Phaethon, transformed into poplars 
and dropping tears of amber at the place which appears to have been 
an entrepot for amber in ancient days, has also developed this 
legend of a holy race of men living beyond the Bora, on the North- 
Western track that led to the night home of the Sun god.’ In 1917 
Miss Harrison* proposed to combine Kiessling’s explanation with 
that of Miss Macurdy: ‘The dora of myth gets contaminated 
with. the Bora of fact.’ Lastly, in 1920 Miss Macurdy* accepted 
this combination, but demurred to S. Casson’s view® that ‘The 
Hyperboreans as a nucleus of myths and travellers’ tales belong 
essentially to the Far East of antiquity, their ‘celestial calm’ being 
perhaps ‘some faint echo from civilised China*®’ 


1 Miss G. H. Macurdy ‘The Hyperboreans’ in the Class. Rev. 1916 xxx. 180—183. 

2 See E. Oberhummer in Pauly—Wissowa eal-Euc. v. 1988 ff. 

3 Miss J. E. Harrison in Zhe Vear’s Work in Class. Stud. 1917 p. 96 f. 

. + Miss G. H. Macurdy ‘ The Hyperboreans again, Abaris, and Helixoia’ in the Class. 
Rev. 1920 xxxiv. 137 ff. 

5 S. Casson ‘The Hyperboreans’ in the Class. Rev. 1920 xxxiv. 1 ff. On the suggested 
connexion with China see M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 2829 and E, H. Minns 
Scythians and Greeks Cambridge 1913 p. 113 f., also H. A. Giles Adversaria Sinica i. 
1 ff. Shanghai 1905, ix. 298 f. Shanghai 1g1t. 

5 The views summarised in this paragraph are, of course, incompatible with that 
advocated by my friend Dr Farnell in his Cz/ts of Gk. States iv. 102 f.: ‘ The brilliant 
explanation given by Ahrens of the meaning of the name [sc, ‘ Hyperboreans’] throws 
light on the darkness: he notes the name of the Macedonian month ‘Yzepfeperaios, the 
last month of the year, and therefore falling probably in midsummer and about the time 
of the harvest, derivable also immediately from no other word than vmepBepérys; he 
notes also the North Greek equation of 8 and ¢, and concludes that the form "LzrepBédperor 
is merely a lengthening, due to mistaken popular etymology of “LwépBopo, which equals 
‘Yaéppopo, a possible variant of ‘Yaeppepéra, a name for the sacred ministrants who 
carry the cereal offerings from one community to another, and whom Herodotus calls 
Ilepdepées. This deduction has won some acceptance, and is by far the most interesting 
contribution made by philology to the solution of a problem of Greek religion.’ 

The explanation put forward by H. L. Ahrens in the hein. Mus. 1862 xyii. 340 ff. 


496 Apollon and Artemis 


On the whole, it seems probable that originally the Hyperbéreoz 
were so named as dwelling ‘ Beyond the Mountains,’ but that later, 
when the word dora had passed out of general use, surviving only in 
the Macedonian Mount Sora and in Boréas the wind ‘from the 
Mountains,’ they were popularly supposed to live ‘at the back of the 
North Wind.’ The road to their far-distant country was conceived 


was adopted by W. Mannhardt Antike Wald- und Feldkulte Berlin 1877 p. 234f. (z.? 
Berlin 1905 p. 234f.), O. Crusius in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 2830f., Gruppe Gr. Myth. 
Rel. pp. 103, 107, 718 b, zd. Myth. Lit. 1908 p. 520f. But, even as restated by its later 
adherents, it involves sundry serious improbabilities—see Daebritz in Pauly—Wissowa 
heal-Enc. ix. 260 f.: ‘ Die antike Volksetymologie habe, von orientalischen Vorstellungen 
beeinflusst, den H. eine Bedeutung gegeben, die diese ‘‘ Uberbringer der Festgeschenke” 
nicht von Anfang an hatten; mepdepées sei=*trepBépees, *trepBepées, brepBdpo.; der 
“YrrepBeperatos des makedonischen Jahres sei der Monat der *iwrepBepern, wie die make- 
donische Prozession nach Delphi geheissen habe, und gehe auf brép+ ¢épw=maked. 
*Bépw zuriick. Hiergegen spricht aber, wie mich Giinther belehrt ‘‘ dass b7ép nie diese 
Bedeutung unseres ‘iiber’ in tiberbringen,—tragen hat; das miisste rapa heissen; mepl 
wiederum heisst ‘ iiber’ nur in komparativischem Sinne (eptxa\\7js, Brugmann Gr. Gr.4 
513); die mep@epées sind vielmehr die sich herumdrehenden, d. h. die Umgebung (wie 
duimodos), vgl. mepipepjs ‘um etwas herumgehend’ und die mepipépera des Kreises.” 
Auch Schroder 73 hat gegen jene Erklarung einen meines Erachtens schlagenden Einwand 
vorgebracht, dass doch nach Herodots Worten nur die fiinf Begleiter der Jungfrauen 
meppepées hiessen. Wie kann man dem Volk den Namen nach den Gesandten geben? 
Tlou7ot ohne ein Volk, das sie schickt, sind undenkbar. Dass die Sage von den H. ‘“‘aus 
einem Missverstandnisse dieser Benennung” (Ahrens) hervorgehen konnte, ist unglaublich. 
Einen weiteren Gegengrund, den Namen der im delphischen Glauben wurzelnden ‘Yzrep- 
Bopex aus der nur fiir Delos bezeugten Bezeichnung der den Hyperboreerinnen beigege- 
benen Begleiter als reppepées abzuleiten, bildet die Verschiedenheit des delischen und 
delphischen Glaubens. Freilich kann zep@epées wohl delphisch sein, Kretschmer Glotta 
I 37. Gegen die Ahrenssche Etymologie vg]. auch Immisch Klaros 156. Treuber Gesch. 
d. Lykier 1887, 78. Zielinski N. Jahrb. 111 87.’ Daebritz goes on to urge that the Mace- 
donian month ‘YzrepBeperaios (adopted into the Cretan calendar as “YmepBéperos) was 
rightly connected by O. Hoffmann Die Makedonen, thre Sprache und thr Volkstum 
Gottingen 1906 p. 108 [after A. Fick in Orient und Occident 1864 ii. 720, who postulates 
a Zeus vrepBepéra] with a Zeus brepBepéras, ‘the surpasser,’=Umeppepéryns (Dion. Hal. 
ant. Rom. 2. 34 cited supra p. 111 n. o) in the sense of brepPépwr, brreppepys. Hoffmann’s 
derivation of ‘TzepBeperaios commends itself also to W. Baege ‘De Macedonum sacris’ 
in Dissertationes philologicae Halenses Halis Saxonum 1913 xxii. 228 and to E. Bischoff 
in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Euc. ix. 253. Proof positive has recently come to light in the 
shape of two inscriptions from the site of Mopsion (?) in Pelasgiotis (A. M. Woodward 
‘Greek Inscriptions from Thessaly’ in Ann. Arch. Anthr. 1910 ili. 155f. no. 7 on a 
gable-topped s¢ée in lettering of s. i B.c.(?) Act Ilep@epéra [’Alvrew|[n]ons Map[mJevicxor | 
apxippor[p|jcas Kal of | civppoulplo. orpatny\odvros Kad\Ntcorpa|rov, O. Kern in Jxser. 
Gr. sept. iii. 2 no. 1057 on a similar but much damaged stéle Ad Peppepéra* *Apic|- 
Tok[pa]rns MeNévvolv] | apx[ipplou[p]o[s kat of ]\¥v[plov[poe srparnyod]|y(r)os —----—- 
(see Woodward Joc. cit.)), which attest the cult of Zeus Heppepéras or Peppepéras, Thes- 
salian forms of the deity so acutely recognised by Fick. U. von Wilamowitz—Moellendorff 
in Hermes 1905 xl. 138 cures Kallim. frag. 117 Schneider ap. Hephaist. exchzr. 6. 3 p. 19, 
rr ff. Consbruch ‘Epuds 6 wep Pepatos aiveiwy Oeds | ups TH puyalxypa by the simple ex- 
pedient of re-writing “Epuds 6 Ileppepatos Alviwy Beds | éupl, To puyatxma (‘wo dann so 
etwas wie dvd@nua und der Eigenname folgen musste, der Weihende, der der Schlacht 
entgangen war’). 


Apollon and Artemis 497 


sometimes as an earthly, sometimes as a heavenly path. The former 
was the great trade-route that skirted the eastern shore of the Adriatic. 
The latter was its a€rial counterpart, the Milky Way. The one was 
the track by which amber reached the Greeks. The other was the high- 
_way followed by the birds. And it is interesting to find that Sopho- 
kles connected amber with birds, when he described it as the tears 
shed by the meleagrides or ‘guinea-fowl’ at the death of Meleagros*. 

Of the route by which the Hyperborean offerings came to 
Apollon at Delos we have two very different records. Herodotos* 
a propos of the Hyperboreoi writes : 


‘ By far the fullest account of them is that given by the Delians, who declare 
that sacred things wrapped in wheaten straw are carried from the Hyperboreans 
to the Scythians ; that from the Scythians they are received by a succession of 
neighbouring tribes, who bring them westwards as far as the Adriatic; that from 
this point they are forwarded south to the people of Dodona, who are the first of 
the Hellenes to receive them; that from Dodona they come down to the Malian 
gulf and cross over to Euboia, where they are sent from town to town till they 
reach Karystos ; but that, after this, Andros is passed by, the Carystians taking 
them direct to Tenos, and the Tenians to Delos.’ 


Pausanias‘, having occasion to mention Prasiai, a small township on 
the east coast of Attike, observes : 


‘In Prasiai there is a temple of Apollon. Here the first-fruits of the 
Hyperboreans are said to come. The Hyperboreans—I am told—hand them 
over to the Arimaspians, and the Arimaspians to the Issedones; from these 
the Scythians convey them to Sinope; thence they are borne by Hellenes to 
Prasiai; and it is the Athenians that bring them to Delos. These first-fruits—it 
is said—are hidden in wheaten straw, and nobody knows what they are. At 
Prasiai there is a tomb of Erysichthon®, who died on the voyage as he was 
returning from Delos after the sacred embassy.’ 


The routes thus traced by Herodotos and Pausanias correspond, at 
least in part, with the two main branches of the Amber Road 
mentioned above’, vzz. that which passed along the Elbe, the Moldau, 


1 Cp. such names for the Galaxy as ‘ Watling Street’ or ‘London Road’ (szpra p. 37). 
H. Gaidoz and E. Rolland ‘ La Voie Lactée’ in A/élusine 1884—85 il. 151 ff. add Strada 
a’ Roma (Parma, Malaspina), Via romana (Tuscany), la via che guida a Roma (Romagna), 
Rom strose (mediaeval Germany), Cesta do Rima (Czechs), Chemin a’ Espagne (Morbihan), 
Strasze nach Aachen or Francfurter Strasse or Koelsche strate or Nierenberger patweg 
(Westphalia). 

* Soph. af. Plin. mat. hist. 37. 40f. See further R. Holland in Roscher Lex. Myth. 
ii. 2586 ff. and A. C. Pearson in his edition of Zhe Fragments of Sophocles Cambridge 
1917 ii. 65f. Mnaseas of Patrai frag. 41 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 156 Miiller) ap. Plin. naz. 
hist. 37. 38 likewise associates amber with ‘aves, quas meleagridas et penelopas vocat.’ 

SAE. 433% 4" Paussi- 90.92. 

5 Note that Erysichthon was destroyed by Demeter for felling a sacred black-poplar 
in her grove at Dotion (Kallim. 4. Dem. 24 ff.): see Class. Rev. 1903 xvii. 180f., 1904 
xviii. 76f., zzf/ra § 3 (c) i(r), and cp. Hesych. s.v. Alyerporouoe lOayevets rwes AOHvnow.— 

6 Supra p. 493 f. 

Coal: 32 


4.98 Apollon and Artemis 


the Danube, and the Adriatic to Central Greece, and that which 
linked the Baltic to the Black Sea by means of the Vistula and the 
Dniester. The position of the various stations on the Hyperborean 
routes and their relation to both branches of the Amber Road can 
be conveniently seen from the map here inserted (pl. xxvi). It would , 
appear that the five and a half centuries, which intervened between 
the time of Herodotos and the time of Pausanias, witnessed the 
transference of the first-fruits from the longer to the shorter 
land-route, a considerable saving of time being thereby effected’. 
F. G. Welcker, as far back as 1860, suggested that the Hyperborean 
gifts actually consisted of amber?; and his suggestion is decidedly 
attractive. If stones coloured like water were appropriate to the 
sky-god*, amber may well have been associated with the sun-god. 
Whether the neolithic borings and cup-marks found on pieces of 
amber in Schleswig-Holstein, Denmark‘, and Prussia’ had any 
solar significance’, is very doubtful. Nor can we lay stress on 
the Homeric description of Eurymachos’ necklace as ‘strung with 
amber-beads, like the sun’.’ But Nikias (of Mallos*?) definitely 


1 Cp. Sir W. Ridgeway Zhe Ovigin of Metallic Currency and Weight Standards 
Cambridge 1892 p. 105 ff., z@. in Frazer Pausanias ii. 405 f. 

2 Welcker Gr. Gotterl. ii. 353 ff. Frazer Pausanias ii. 406 and Golden Bough*®: The 
Magic Art i. 33 n. 4 takes the offerings to have been first-fruits of the corn. But Herodotos’ 
phrase ipa évdedeuéva ev xahaun tupOy (4. 33) and Pausanias’ equivalent ras d€ drapxas 
Kexp0par...€v kadduin mup@y (1. 31. 2) imply that something was wrapped in the sheaf. 
There is therefore something to be said for the view of W. Mannhardt Wadd- und Fela- 
kulte® Berlin 1905 p. 237: ‘Es wird namlich in ausserordentlich zahlreichen Fallen noch 
jetzt ein Mensch oder ein Zver, oder ein Zz (Osterei) und 4rod...in die evste oder letzte 
Garbe des Ahrenschnitts als Vertreter des Wachstumsgeistes hineingebunden. Im griech- 
ischen und italischen Brauche spielt aber die erste Garbe der Ernte die Rolle, welche in 
Nordeuropa gemeinhin der letzten zufallt. Unzweifelhaft waren auch die in Weizen- 
garben eingebundenen Opfergaben des delischen Erntefestes von gleicher Art.’ That 
we have a Phrygian example of the man bound in a sheaf was rightly emphasised by 
W. Mannhardt of. ciz.? p. 285 and AZythologische Forschungen Strassburg 1884 p. 1 ff, 
O. Crusius in Roscher Lex. AZyth. il. 2065 ff., Frazer Golden Bough*®: Spirits of Corn 
and Wild i. 214 ff. Has it been noticed that a Greek parallel underlies Aristoph. Ach. 
948 ff., where the Boeotian, about to carry off Nikarchos packed in straw, ejaculates 
Ew yé Tor Oepiddev, and the Chorus replies aA)’, & E€vwv BéATioTE, ouv|Depife K.T.D.? 

3 Suprai. 357- 

4 C. Neergaard ‘ Ravsmykkerne 1 Stenalderen’ in the Aardgger for nordisk Oldkyn- 
dighed og Historie 1888 p. 281 ff. figs. 2, 3, 7, 8, S. Miiller Mordische Altertumskunde 
trans. O. L. Jiriczek Strassburg 1897 i. 51 ff. figs. 26 and 27, M. Hoernes Urgeschichte 
der bildenden Kunst in Europa Wien 18098 p. 376. 

° R. Klebs Der Bernsteinschmuck der Steinzeit von der Baggeret bet Schwarzort und 
anderen Lokalitaten Preussens Konigsberg 1882 pl. 7 figs. 1, 2, 4, 9, pl. 11 figs. 1, 8, pl. 12 
fig. 8, quoted by M. Hoernes Joc. czz. 

6 Cp. E. Krause Die Trojaburgen Nordeuropas Glogau 1893 pp. 48—6o, zd. Die 
nordische Herkunft der Trojasage bezeugt durch den Krug von Tragliatella (Nachtrag zu 
den Trojaburgen Nordeuropas) Glogau 1893 p. 46f. 

7 Od. 18. 295f., cp. £5. 460. 8 Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 463 Miiller. 








Si ee 











Plate XXVI 


MAP 


SHOWING THE TWO RECORDED ROUTES 


OF THE 


_HYPERBOREAN OFFERINGS. 


Western Route of the Offerings. 
Eastern Route of the Offerings 





., 


ets 








The Western and Eastern Routes of the Hyperborean Offerings in relation to early Trade-Routes for Amber. See pages 493 f., 497 f. 





Apollon and Artemis 499 


explained amber as the juice or sweat of solar rays’. Moreover, its 
Greek name éektron is akin to e/éktor, a poetic title of the sun?; and 
the ancients maintained that the latter was derived from the former’, 
or the former from the latter‘. Among the Rhodians, too, Elektryone 
—locally worshipped as Alektrona*—was said to be the daughter 
of Helios®. 

Our enquiry, as a whole, leads up to the following conclusions. 
The cult of Apollon came into Greece along the older Amber 
Route from the land of the Hyperboreans, which is best located 
near the source of the Danube. The Agyzezs-pillars of Apollonia, 
Orikos, Olympe, Ambrakia mark out the ‘Way”’ and point onwards 
to Delphoi, where the Hyperboreans Pagasos and Agyieus estab- 
lished the oracle’. Apollonia in Illyria was left as a milestone on the 
road’, if not also Apollonia in Akarnania” and Apollonia in Aitolia". 


1 Plin. zat. hist. 37. 36. 

2 Ll. 6. 513 MAéKTwp, 19. 398=h. AP. 369 HrEKxTwp ‘Trepiwy, Euphorion frag. 74 
Meineke ap. Clem. Al. stvom. 4. 5 p. 259, 1 f. Stahlin xaé of yeivaro xodpor, ds obk n€xTopa 
edev. E. E. Sikes on 2. AP. 369 justly cp. Emped. 327 Karsten (/vag. 22 Diels) n\éxrwp, 
Tes: 

3 Schol. L. 7/. 6. 513 wor’ nA€xTwp*...7) 67e Naprpbs, mapa TO Hrextpov =el. Gud. p. 239, 
58f., cp. et. mag. p. 425, 36 ff.=Zonar. lex. s.v. nXéxtwp ; Apion (on whom see L. Cohn 
in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 2806) af. Eustath. zz //. p. 659, 28f. (cp. pp. 826, 11, 
1189, 62 f., 2 Od. p. 1483, 331.) ndéxrwp 6é dvri rov"Hwos, ds 5€ Arlwy pyoiv, 6 \durwv 
ws #exTpov ; Apollon. dex. Hom. p. 83, 20f. nr€xrwp* émiBerixGs 6 Hrcos, Hroe 6 Naumpés, 
Tapa Thy Tov HAéKTpov ovciay, wept ob Pyaly ‘‘ HéxTwp Wrohdumed’” (Hes. sc. Her. 142 
MEKTpw 0’ WroNamrés). 

4 Plin. wat. hist. 37. 31 electrum appellatum, quoniam sol vocitatus sit Elector, Isid. 
orig. 16. 24. 1 electrum vocatur quod ad radium solis clarius auro argentoque reluceat. 
sol enim a poetis Elector vocatur. etc., schol. Eur. Hipp. 740 xdpar Pa€ébovros- ‘HXiou yap 
BovNerar avras 6 miOos ecivar. did TO Kal TO DaKpvoy a’Tav gdwrewoedés éyeoAat elvac 
Hrextpov dvouatduevor, émel kal A€xTwp 6 “Hos kadeirac, Favorin. /ex. p. 851, 1 ff. 
HekTpov...mapa Tov HALov, ds HA€kTwp dvouaferac. 

5 C. T. Newton Zhe Collection of Ancient Greek Inscriptions in the British Museum 
Oxford 1883 ii. 122 ff. no. 349=Jnscr. Gr. mms. i no. 677=J. v. Prott and L. Ziehen 
Leges Graecorum sacrae ii no. 145=Michel Recwetl d’/nscr. gr. no. 434 = Dittenberger 
Syll. inscr. Gr? no. 560 on a marble séé/e of s. iii B.C. found near Ialysos: line 19 ff. vouos 
G obx dovoy éoimew ovde | Eopépew és 7d lepov Kal TO Té|wevos Tas ANexTpdvas: wh éai\rw 
immos, dvos, hulovos, yivos, | unde dAAo NOqoupov unOEv, unde Ecaryérw els TO TéwEvos uy Beis 
Tobrwy unbév, pnde brodj\uata éopepérw poe tecov pn bév. x.7.X. with the notes of 
W. Dittenberger and L. Ziehen ad /oc. 

Diod. 5. 56, schol. Pind. O/. 7. 24h (p. 204, 17 f. Drachmann). 
Supra pp. 161 f., 166. 
Supra p. 169. 

9 This assumes that the Corcyraean colony of 588 B.c. (J. Oehler in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. i. 2827 f., G. Hirschfeld 2d, ii. 112) found Apollon already established on the 
spot. Interest attaches to an archaic ‘ Apollon’-torso of white limestone (15 cm. high), 
which came to light at Durazzo (C. Praschniker—A. Schober Archdologische Forschungen 
in Albanien und Montenegro Wien 1919 p. 40 fig. 47, R. Pagenstecher in the Ber/, phizlol. 
Wockh. Jan. 29, 1921 p. 109=Class. Rev. 1921 xxxv. 83). 

10 Steph. Byz. s.v. ’Amo\\wvia. EL ive28.-8: 


6 
7 
8 


32—2 


500 Apollon and Artemis 


It is noticeable that a town in Thrace! and no fewer than four 
towns in Makedonia bore the same name?, including the settlement 
on Mount Athos whose inhabitants were called MWacrobzz?—a title 
suggestive of Hyperborean longevity’. With regard to Apollon’s 
original character we are still lamentably ignorant. That he was 
from the first a sun-god is neither proved, nor probable®. Apdéllon 
appears to be merely a cult-epithet, ‘he of the Black-Poplars®.’ 
The full name of the god is possibly preserved in the Homeric 
designation Phoibos Apd//on’. If so, the name means ‘the Clear 
One, ‘the Pure One’, and would be applicable to any deity of the 
bright, shining sky. Not improbably Phoibos and Phoibe were sky- 
god and earth-goddess respectively. On reaching Delphoi, Phoibe 
as a chthonian power succeeded to Gaia and Themis”, while Phoibos, 
finding another sky-god already in possession, became affiliated. to 
Zeus and acted as his interpreter to men”. For the rest, Phoibos 
Apéllon, god of the clear, pure sky, underwent both physical and 
ethical development: on the one hand, his clarity, specialised into 
that of the sun", enabled him to rival and in part displace the 
ancient Helios; on the other hand, his essential purity” made him a 
god of light and leading to the whole civilised world. 

We have, so far as 1 can see, no right to assume that Artemis 
entered Greece along with Apollon or came from the same northern 
home. Herodotos indeed adduces as a parallel to the Hyperborean 
usage the fact that Thracian and Paeonian women, when they 
sacrifice to Artemis Lasé/eza, hold their offerings ‘not without wheaten 


1 G. Hirschfeld oc. czt. ii. 113 f. oh 1 Foy Peart oh @ (ee 3 Plin. zat. hist. 4. 37. 

4 Schol. Dionys. fev. 560 MakpoBiwy: dmroko. yap elow otro T&v éEwwy Alfdrwy 7 
Tov ‘TrepBopeiwy. Orph. Arg. 1106 ff. makes the Argonauts, after reaching the land of 
the ‘YzepBdpeo (1077, 1082), arrive at the wealthy folk of the Maxpé8:a, whose span of 
12000 months each as long as 100 years (1108) recalls Pindar’s description of the Hyper- 
boreans as xtter@y (supra p. 465 n. 1). See further Daebritz in Pauly—Wissowa Real- 
Enc. ix. 261 f., 274 f. 

5 Supra i. 258 n. 4. 6 Supra p. 484 ff. 

7 H. Ebeling Lexicon Homericum Lipsiae 1885 i. 154, ii. 439 f., L. Meyer Handd. 
d. gr. Etym. iii. 371. The Homeric poems, if drafted in northern Greece, would be 
likely to preserve the original name of the god. 

8 Prellwitz Ziym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr.” p. 493, Boisacq Dact. étym. de la Langue Gr. 
p. 1032. Prof. H. M. Chadwick suggests to me (June 30, 1921) that a north-Greek form 
of the same stem may be seen in Boi8y, 7 BorByls Nun, etc.: cp. W. Pape—G. E. Ben- 
seler Worterbuch der griechischen Eigennamen*® Braunschweig 1875 i. 216. 

® Aisch. Zum. 1 ff. See also Tiirk in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 2395 ff. 

10 Aisch. Zum. 7 ff. Supra pp. 204 n. 1, 265 f. 

1 Cp, Aisch. P. v. 22f. orabevros 5’ HArlov PoiByn Pdoyl | k.7.. One of the Heliades. 
was named o0i8y (Tiirk in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ili. 2397). 

2 Plout. de E apud Delphos 20 potBov 5é Symov Td Kabapoy Kal ayvoy oi madaol “may 
avouatov, ws étt Oecoadol rovs lepéas ev Tais amoppdcw hucpas avrovs ep éavTdv Ew 
OvarpiBovTas, oiuar, PorBovouetobar Néyovat. 


Lightning as a flash from an Eye 501 


straw'.’ But,as K. Wernicke? points out, ‘Artemis Baszleza’ is merely 
Herodotos’ translation of the Thracian Lendis*; and we have not the 
remotest reason to connect Bendis with Apollon. Again, the story 
of Kleinis made that Mesopotamian worthy accompany Apollon and 
Artemis to the land of the Hyperboreans*. But, when they got 
there, it was Apollon, not Artemis, that received the sacrifice; and, 
in any case, a contaminated Hellenistic romance is a source of very 
dubious value®. O. Crusius* would emend Pindar’s account of the 
Hyperborean ‘brute beasts ramping bolt upright (or¢h¢éan)"’ in such 
a way as to make the delighted spectator, not Apollon, but Artemis 
Orthta—a desperate expedient. Crusius urges that Pindar elsewhere 
describes how ‘Leto’s horse-driving daughter’ (Artemis) welcomed 
Herakles to ‘the Istrian land®.” But Pindar wishes us to believe that 
Herakles brought thence the wild-olive and, as we have already 
seen®, is giving a southern colour to a northern myth. Lastly, it 
might be contended that the names of the Hyperborean maidens 
Opis and Arge (Hekaerge), or Hyperoche and Laodike, imply the 
cult of Artemis. That is probably true, and has been admitted”. 
But they imply the cult of Artemis at Delos rather than in the land 
of the Hyperboreans. 

In short, we have no real ground for supposing that Artemis was 
ab initio the twin sister of Apollon. There is more to be said for the: 
view that he first met her in Asia Minor or the Archipelago, 
where she originated as the younger form of the Anatolian mother- 
goddess, being related to Leto in much the sarne way as Persephone 
to Demeter". 


(6) Lightning as a flash from an Eye. 


W. Schwartz in a noteworthy chapter of his /udogermanischer 
Volksglaube collects a mass of evidence to show that lightning is 


1 Hdt. 4. 33 olda d& adros rovro.cr rotor ipotor T65€ mocevpevov mporpepés, TAS Opnixlas 
kal Tas Iavovidas yuvatkas, éredy Oiwor TH “Apréucde TH BacrNely, ov dvev mupov kahduns 
éxovoas Ta ipa. 

2 K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 1370, 1381: so also G. Knaack zd. 
iii. 270. 

3 Hesych. s.v. Bevdis: 7 “Apreuis, Opaxori, Palaiph. 31 (32) thy "“Apreuw Opaxes ev 
Bévéw, x.7.X., schol. Plat. rep. 317 A TovTwy dé kal Opaxes exowwdvour, érel Kal Bévdss wap’ 
avrots »”Apreuis kanetra, K.T.A. Cp. Hesych. s.v. BovcBatov* rhv "Apreuw. Opdxes. 

4 Supra p. 463 n. 1. 

5 The same, or worse, must be said of Artemis’ journey from the Hyperboreans as 
sketched by Diodoros after Dionysios Skytobrachion (sepra i. 244 f.). 

§ O. Crusius in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 2816 n., 7d. Die delphischen Hymnen (Philologus 
1894 liii Erganzungsheft) Gottingen 1894 p. 52 n. 65, cj. opGo’...’Opbia for dpav...dpbiav 
in Pind. Pyth, to. 36. 

7 Supra p. 463. 8 Supra p. 465. 9 Supra p. 466. 

10 Supra p. 452. 4l Supra i. 396 f. 


502 Lightning as a flash from an Eye 


often regarded as the piercing glance of a fiery eye, and that the 
wide-spread belief in the evil eye is directly traceable to this con- 
ception’. Of the conclusions here stated I should accept the first and 
reject the second. There are, I think, grounds for supposing that the 
Greeks sometimes at least viewed lightning asa glance from the eye 
of Zeus, and indeed as the glance of his evil eye. But to explain 
the evil eye of men as derived from the evil eye of a god is—apart 
from other objections—to invert the order of religious causation. 
Hesychios the lexicographer quotes from an unnamed Greek 


tragedian the phrase— 
as the eye of Zeus, 


and informs us that it means ‘as a flash of lightning®’ This is 


1 W. Schwartz /ndogermanischer Volksglaube Berlin 1885 pp. 169—219. Cp. some 
sentences in an earlier work by the same author (F. L. W. Schwartz Der Ursprung der 
Mythologie Berlin 1860 p. 212 f.), and the helpful chapter of W. H. Roscher Die Gorgonen 
und Verwandtes Leipzig 1879 p. 63 ff. (‘Der Blitz als Wuthblick eines himmlischen 
Ungeheuers,’ etc.). 

2 Frag. trag. adesp. 278 Nauck? ap. Hesych. s.v. dorep ob pOahuds Ards’ ws doTpamr7. 
ovpOaduwos Ards is the correction of A. Meineke (Phz/ologus xii. 630) for 6 6pOaduods Tov 
Atés cod. A. Nauck reads é6¢0adpuos Abs. 

Homer alludes four times to the doce daeww of Zeus (Z/. 13. 3 and 7, 14. 236, 16. 645), 
once to those of Athena (//. 21. 415), once to those of Menelaos (Z/. 17. 679), and once to 
the dace paewa of Alkathoos (//. 13. 435). But it is to be observed that, according to 
Dr W. Leaf and Mr M. A. Bayfield ad J/occ., the first four passages belong to a decidedly 
earlier s¢ratum of the poem than the last three. Hence we may perhaps infer that ‘ashing 
eyes’ were appropriate to Zeus as a lightning-god, and to Athena as his second self (zzfra 
§ g (h) ii (u)). Menelaos was at most Acorpegms (7/. 17. 679), as was the father of Alkathoos 
(22. 13. 427): Agamemnon was dupmara Kal kepadny ikedos Aci repmixepavyw (Ll. 2. 478. 
Lnfra Append. I). 

Later writers usually lay stress on the eye of Zeus as the wakeful witness of right and 
wrong: e.g. Hes. 0.d. 267 (supra i. 187 n. 9, 196 n. 6), Aisch. suppl. 646 ff. Atov émdd- 
pevor mpdxropda [Te] oxordv | Svomohéunrov, dy [ov]ris dv duos Exot | ér’ 6pdpwv muaivorta ; 
Bapis & épige with schol. ad loc. Avs oxoméy, Tov Avos 6p0adpuov Tov mavTa ocKorobyTa 
(W. Headlam, after F. Bamberger and T. G. Tucker, would read mpdxropd rou Kédrov. 
I should keep cxomév, but explain it as alluding to the eagle, not to the eye, of Zeus), 
Soph. O.C. 704 ff. 6 yap aiéy dpv Kixdos | Nevooer viv Mopiov Ards | xa yavxGms ’APdva 
(the schol. ad Joc., cited supra p. 20 n. 4, equates Zeus Mépros with Zeus KarauBarns), 
Eur. AzpZp. 886 70 ceuvdv Znvos dup? adrimdoas, Cornut. ¢heol. 11 p. 11, 20 Lang mavr’ 
épopa Aros 6pOadpos kal mdv7’ éraxover. But there is at least a negative reminiscence of 
the ‘ flashing eyes’ in Ov. me¢. 2. 857 nullae in fronte minae, nec formidabile lumen. 

Athena was worshipped as ’Ogvéepxjs or ’Ogvdepxw at Argos (Paus. 2. 24. 2), as 
*O&vdépxa at Epidauros (Zuscr. Gr. Pelop.i no. 1074 ’O&vdép|kas. | Acovicr|os (Avovuciov) | 
muppopy|cas with circle no. 40 (2d. p. 189) and numeral dy’), as “OmriAéris (Plout. v. Lyc. 
11, apophth. Lac. Lyc. 7) or ’OmriXia (Olympiod. zz Plat. Gorg. 40 ioropetrar yap bre 
IIrNas ’AOnvas lepdv éroince: mriddous 6€ Exddovv Tos d6MHaduovs, cp. C. A. Lobeck 
Pathologiae linguae Graecae elementa Lipsiae 1853 i. 83) or OpGadpiris at Sparta (Paus. 
3. 18. 2). These cult-titles recall her poetic epithets yAavx@mus, yopy@ms, 68pimodepkns, 
etc. (Bruchmann £77¢h. deor. p. 7, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1198 n. 3) and her intimate 
relation to the Gorgon (W. H. Roscher Dze Gorgonen und Verwandtes Leipzig 1879 Index 
p. 135 s.v. ‘ Athene,’ zd. in the Lex. AZyth. i. 677, 1696, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 1201 


Lightning as a flash from an Eye 503 


testimony which we cannot control; but the general trustworthiness 
of Hesychios and the occurrence of analogous expressions elsewhere 
combine to render it credible. Aischylos tells how an oracle bade 
Inachos drive Io from his home: 


And if he would not, there should come from Zeus 
A fire-eyed thunderbolt to blast his race}. 


But neither the reading nor the interpretation of the word translated 
‘fire-eyed’ is quite certain®?. More convincing are two other passages 
from the plays of the same poet. Klytaimestra in the Agamemnon 
has at length induced her husband to enter his palace treading a 


pathway strewn with purple as though he were a god. He does 
so, Saying: 

Well, if thou wilt, let some one loose forthwith 

The shoes that serve my foot as slaves, and while 

I tread these sea-wrought robes, oh may no envy 

Of a divine eye strike me from afar®. 


Again, the chorus of Argive elders give the following expression to 
their belief in the jealousy of heaven: 


Exceeding good report is dangerous ; 
For a thunderbolt is flung by the eyes of Zeus. 
Luck without envy is my choice’. 


These passages certainly seem to imply that lightning is a glance 


n. I, 1209 n. 2, Ziegler in Pauly—Wissowa Keal-Enc. vii. 1641 f.). It may be suspected 
that she was credited with a potentially evil eye (cp. such passages as Prop. 2. 28. 12 
Palladis aut oculos ausa negare bonos? Hyg. fwd. 165 Iuno et Venus cum eam irriderent, 
quod et caesia erat (B. Bunte cj. esset) et buccas inflaret, Loukian. da/. deo. 8 yNavx@mes 
mév, ANNA Kooper Kal TOOTO 7H KdpUS, 20. 10 7) Sédtas uy Tor ENéyXNTAL TO yavKdy TAY dumaTwv 
dvev ToU poBepov Brew éuevor ;). : 

A fine bronze statuette of Zeus from Paramythia, now in the British Museum (4777, 
Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 36 no. 275 pl. 7, A. S. Murray Greek Bronzes London 1898 p. 8 
with pl.), had eyes inlaid with silver. So have other bronze statuettes of Zeus at Paris 
(Babelon—Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. Nat. p.t no. 1 fig., p. rf. no. 3 fig., p. 2f. 
no. 4, p. 3 no. 5 fig., p. 3 f. no. 6 fig., p. 4 f. no. 8 fig., p. 5 f. no. 9 fig., p. gf. no. 17 fig., 
p- 1o no. 18 fig., cp. p. 13 no. 27, p. 13 no. 29 fig., De Ridder Cat. Bronzes du Louvre 
i. 76 no. 511 pl. 38) and doubtless elsewhere. Silver was a metal specially appropriate 
to Zeus (supra i. 25 n. 2, 625 f.). 

1 Aisch. P.v. 667 f. Kel wi) OéNot, mrupwrdv Ex Ards podety | Kepavvdy, ds may eatoTrwoor 
yévos. 

2 The Laurentian Ms. has rupwrév, other MSS. tupwmdv, which is printed by Dindorf 
and Wilamowitz. E. E. Sikes and St. J. B. Wynne Willson adopt their cj. tup@m’ av. 
Even if rupwmov be kept, it may mean no more than ‘of fiery aspect.’ 

3 Aisch. Ag. 944 ff. The essential words are 947 uy Tis TpdcwHev dupmaros Badoe PAdvos. 

4 Aisch. Ag. 466 ff. 70 8 brepkdrws KNvew | eb Bapt: BaddeTae yap dooos Arddev 
kepauvos. | kplvw 5’ &pOovoy dABov. T. G. Tucker’s cj. kdpava, accepted by W. Headlam, 
would mean: ‘for lofty peaks are struck from heaven by jealous eyes of Zeus.’ For other 
cjj. see A. W. Verrall ad loc. 


504 Lightning as a flash from an Eye 


shot from the jealous eye of Zeus. And, when we remember that the 
‘jealous eye’ was another name for the evil eye}, it becomes highly 
probable that the Greeks sometimes considered lightning as an 
exhibition of the evil eye on the part of Zeus. 

Now W. Wundt? in his masterly Volkerpsychologie has shown 
that the superstition of the evil eye* presupposes a belief in the 
eye as the seat and doorway of the soul‘. Primitive man regards 
reflections on the cornea as due to an inward fire and, since this fire 
is dimmed or extinguished by death, connects it with the soul’s 
activity. The pupil of the eye he takes to be a hole through 
which the soul can pass outwards to work its will at a distance. 
Parenthetically I may add that this explanation accounts, not only 
for the evil eye, but also for the good eye*. If the glance of the eye 


1 O. Jahn ‘ Uber den Aberglauben des bisen Blicks bei den Alten’ in the Ber. sédchs. 
Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1855 p. 31 n. 9. 

2 W. Wundt Volkerpsychologie Leipzig 1906 ii. 2. 27 f. 

3 For recent investigation of the evil eye see Gruppe AZyth. Lit. 1908 p. 358. To the 
articles cited by him must now be added the important volumes of S. Seligmann Der dése 
Blick und Verwandtes Berlin 1910 i. t—4o6, ii. 1—526 (reviewed by R. Wiinsch in the 
Berl. philol. Woch. Jan. 21, 911 p. 75 ff. and in the Archiv f. Rel. rgtt xiv. 546, cp. 
K. T. Preuss 24, 1gto xiii. 453 ff.) and the very thorough-going monograph of B. Schmidt 
‘Der bése Blick und ahnlicher Zauber im neugriechischen Volksglauben’ in the ewe 
Jahrb. f. klass. Altertum 1913 XXXi. 574—613.- 

4 On the eye as seat of the soul see E. Monseur ‘L’ame pupilline’ in the Revue de 
Dhistotre des religions 1905 li. t—23, L. Deubner in the Archiv f. Rel. 1907 x. 319, 
O. Waser in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 3209 and in the Archiv f. Rel. 1913 xvi. 381, 
G. Elliot Smith Zhe Evolution of the Dragon Manchester 1919 pp- 52—55. 

5 Cp. e.g. Plin. zat. hist. 28. 64 augurium ex homine ipso est non timendi mortem in 
aegritudine, quamdiu oculorum pupillae imaginem reddant, Iul. Capit. v. Pert. 14. 2 
ea die, qua occisus est, negabant in oculis eius pupulas cum imaginibus, quas reddunt 
spectantibus, visas. 

6 Examples of ‘Der gute Blick’ are collected by S. Seligmann of. cz¢. i. 244—251, 
cp. 70. ii. 493 Index s.v. ‘Gutes Auge.’ I have it from Prof. P. Gardner that the modern 
Greek peasant believes in the influence of a good eye as well as in that of an evil eye. 
I have noted the following ancient allusions to the good eye of deities: Kallim. 2. Af. 
50 ff. petd Ke BovBdcoy TeA€Oar wéov, OvdE Kev alyes | SevowTo Bpepéwy evindddes, How 
’"Amdd\Nwv | Bookonevys dPOaduov ernyayev K.T-A., Theokr. 9. 35 f. réccov éuly Motoar 
pirac* ods yap dpedvre | yabetoau, rods 5’ od re roT@ Sadjaaro Kipxy (cp. Kallim. ef. 23. 5 f. 
Motca yap dcous tov bupate watdas | uy oEG, wodtods ovK awéfevro gidous, where ph 
No&G is read by schol. Hes. ¢heag. 82, dxpt Biov by Anth. Pal. 7. 525. 6), cp. Pind. OV. 
7.11 f., Pyth. 3. 85, Hdt. t. 124, Alkiphr. ef. 1. 36, 3. 44, Aristain. ef. 1. 11, 1. 19, Hor. 
od. 4. 3. 1 ff. See further C. Sittl Die Gebarden der Griechen und Rimer Leipzig 1890 
p- 343 n. 5. In the case of men I have no certain instances, but cp. Pind. Pyth. 5. 14 ff. 
Td pév, bre Baireds | éool peyahav Troriwy* | Exe cvyyerns | dPOaduds aldordrarov -yépas, | 
Teg TovTO peyvimevoy ppevi. The ‘eye born with’ Arkesilas of Kyrene, which brought him 
worship and honour as an inalienable prerogative, may well have been his good eye. It 
seems to have been hereditary: 26. 51 ff. 6 Barrov 6’ émerar madaids OABos uray Ta Kal TH 
véuwv, | rbpyos doreos Oupua Te paervdrarov | E€voior. J. Bridge ‘ZYTTENHE OSOAAMOD’ 
in Harvard Studies in Classical Philology 1900 xi. 141 ff. gives a different explanation 
(cvyyeris 6POadruds =ovyyevijs wérpos, ‘the guardian spirit of the race,’ cp. Aisch. cho. 934 


Lightning as a weapon 505 


zs the soul projected to a distance’, it follows that the glance will be 
bad or good according to the nature of the soul’s intention. Apply- 
ing now Wundt’s illuminating hypothesis to the Greek? conception 
of lightning as a glance from the eye of Zeus, we reach again by a 
different route the conclusion that lightning was part and parcel of 
the bright sky-god, a flash of his own fiery self darted forth from his 
eye in heaven. 
(c) Lightning as a weapon. 

Sir John Evans’ and, more recently, C. Blinkenberg* have shown 
that throughout the confines of Europe, indeed far beyond them, 
stone celts or axes are regarded as thunderbolts. They are supposed 
to have fallen with a flash of lightning in the thick of a thunder- 
storm, and are consequently venerated as being of celestial origin. 

The modern Greeks form no exception to this almost universal 
belief—witness the following tale from Zakynthos. The Giants (it is 
said), fancying themselves mightier than God, once laid claim to be 
lords of heaven and earth. They climbed a high mountain and flung 
rocks at God. But He grasped his thunderbolts and hurled them at 
the Giants, who were all dashed headlong from the mountain. Many 
of them were killed: the rest fled. One of them, however, did not 
lose heart. He cut a great many reeds, bound them together, and so 
made an enormously long pole, with which he tried to reach heaven’. 
He had nearly succeeded, when suddenly a flash of lightning from 
God reduced him to ashes®. After this his companions made a last 


é6p0adpor olkwv). See also the modus operandi of love as conceived by Plout. symp. 5. 7-2, 
Heliod. 3. 7 f.,‘Eumath. 3. 7. 

1 The philosophers here too built upon popular belief. Emped. /vag. 84 Diels (302 ff. 
Karsten) compared the eye to a lantern, the light of which leaps forth through its sur- 
rounding framework. Plat. 77m. 45 8 ff. holds that, in the act of sight, a pure fire within 
us issues through the eye as a visual current (dWews pedua): it is akin to the fire of daylight 
in the air, and unites with it to make a uniform substance, which meets the vibrations 
from the visible object and transmits them to the eye and so to the soul. Cp. Aristot. 
de sensu 2. 437b to ff. 

2 The same conception is to be found in Latin literature. W. Schwartz of. ci¢. 
p- 176f. calls attention to Sil. 12. 719 ff. where Iuno says to Hannibal: huc vultus flecte 
atque aude spectare Tonantem: | quas hiemes, quantos concusso vertice cernis | sub nutu 
tonitrus ! ocewlis gud fulgurat tgnis! Id. ib. p. 177 cites Ov. met. 2. 787 ff. where Invidia, 
the personified evil eye, blasts the landscape like a thunder-storm. 

3 Sir J. Evans The Ancient Stone Implements of Great Britain® London 1897 p. 56 ff. 

4 C. Blinkenberg Zhe Thunderweapon in Religion and Folklore Cambridge 1911 
pp. 1 ff., 68 ff. (a valuable, though somewhat miscellaneous, collection of facts). 

5 Cp. the tale of the Thracian Kosingas (supra p. 130). J. C. Lawson Modern Greek 
Folklore and Ancient Greek Religion Cambridge 1gto p. 74 regards the incident of the 
reeds as ‘ probably an imperfect reminiscence of the Jegend of Prometheus.’ 

6 At Arachova, a village near Delphoi, when a big tree is struck, people exclaim xdmovov 
didBorov exawe (sc. 6 Beds rather than 7 dorpam7), ‘ He’s blasted a devil !’—it being thought 


506 Lightning as a weapon 


attempt to get up to heaven and destroy God. They piled one 
mountain on the top of another. So, when God saw that they would 
not be quiet, in great wrath He again hurled His lightning at them, 
and sent His angels to inform the survivors of their fate, which 
was perpetual imprisonment inside a mountain!. B. Schmidt, who 
reports this Zakynthian tale, comments on its similarity to the 
classical myths of the Giants and the Titans, observing that the vé/e 
of the pagan Zeus has been simply transferred to the Christian 
God*. He also remarks that the word here used of God’s ‘thunder- 
bolts’ is astropelékia*®, and adds: ‘The common expression for light- 
ning that strikes is astropelékt, and this term proves that in the eyes of 
the populace the flash travelling downwards from the air appeared as 
anaxe‘, Rather let us say that the flash was thought to be accom- 
panied by a tangible axe. For in Greece the name astropelékia is given 
to actual neolithic celts*, Schmidt himself has lately published the 
important observation that such celts are called, not only astropelékia, 
but also astrapopelékia (Epeiros) and astrapéboula (Parnassos)*— 
fuller forms which denote ‘lightning-axes, ‘lightning-bolts,’ and 
explain the otherwise puzzling prefix’. The celts are kept in houses 
as a preservative against lightning’; and portions of them are worn 
by way of protection from evil spirits or the evil eye. The in- 
habitants of Parnassos declare that fragments of these stones are 
found in places that have been struck by lightning. 

The beliefs of the modern peasantry are of no recent growth. 
About the year 1o81 A.D. Alexios i Komnenos, emperor of Con- 
stantinople, sent a number of presents to Henry iv, emperor of 
Germany, and among them an astropelékys set in gold®. Centuries 


that God aims his lightning at such trees in order to destroy demons residing in them 
(B. Schmidt Das Volksleben der Neugriechen Leipzig 1871 i. 33, J.C. Lawson of. ctt. p. 73). 
lB. Schmidt Griechische Marchen, Sagen und Volkslieder Leipzig 1877 p. 131 (‘Gott 
und die Riesen’), J. C. Lawson of. c#¢. p. 73 f. 
* B. Schmidt Das Volksleben der Neugriechen Leipzig 1871 i. 33, 202, 2d. Griechische 
Mirchen, Sagen und Volkslieder Leipzig 1877 p. 241. 
3 Td. ib. p. 131 N. I ToaKkwver Ta doTpoTeENékia TOV. 
Id. Das Volksleben der Neugriechen Leipzig 1871 1. 32 f. 
Sir J. Evans of. cit.2 p. 59, C. Blinkenberg of. cz¢. p. 107. 
B. Schmidt in the Meue Jahrb. f. klass. Altertum 1913 xxxi. 599 (doTpomedéxia, 
aoTpatoTeNéKia, aoTpaToBouna). 


- 


5 


6 


7 C, Blinkenberg of. c7¢. p. 107 wrongly translates dorpomeNéxt, ‘sky-axe.’ ’Aorpome- 
Aexia is by haplology for aarpamomeéxta. 

8 My friend Prof. R. M. Dawkins has kindly furnished me with the following corrobora- 
tion (May 23, 191g): ‘I have seen a man from one of the islands, I think Sym, who told 
me that one of his women-folk kept a celt among her wool to prevent the garments from 
being destroyed by fire.’ 

* Anna Komnen. A/ex. 3. 10 (i. 177 Schopen) aorpomeNéxuy dedeuévov pera Xpvcadiov, 
on which see Sir J. Evans of. cit.” p. 59. 


Lightning as a weapon 507 


earlier, in the reign of Anastasios i (491—518 A.D.), Timotheos of 
Gaza recommended as a safe-guard against thunderstorms the keep- 
ing of an inscribed thunder-stone in the house. And Pliny already 














WW 
ny 


W 























Fig. 382. Fig. 383. 


informs us that a rare variety of thunder-stone, much sought after by 
the Magi, is to be found only on a spot struck by lightning?— 


1 Timoth. Gaz. de anzimalibus published by M. Haupt in Hermes 186g iii. 30, 26 ff. 
(=id. Opuscula Lipsiae 1876 iii. 302, 25 f.) reptamrov (so H. Graff for mepudrrwy cod.) dé 
mpos Kepauvoy efers eav NiBov (so H. Graff for éay 5é els MOov cod.) Kepavyiov émvypaas 
éxns (éxec cod.) & rp olkig ‘‘apia appvé.”” The inscription is enigmatic: adie dppuxra 
might mean ‘ Let (my belongings) be unscorched.’ 

* Plin. wat. hist. 37. 135 Sotacus et alia duo genera fecit cerauniae, nigrae rubentisque 
[similes eas esse securibus] (these four words, omitted in cod. B, are bracketed by 
C. Mayhoff). ex his quae nigrae sint ac rotundae, sacras esse; urbes per illas expugnari 
et classes; baetulos vocari; quae vero longae sint, ceraunias. faciunt et aliam raram ad- 
modum, Magorum studiis expetitam, quoniam non aliubi inveniatur quam in loco fulmine 
icto, 37. 176 ombria, quam alii notiam vocant, sicut et ceraunia et brontea, cadere cum 
imbribus et fulminibus dicitur eundemque effectum habere; praeterea hac in aras addita 
libamenta non amburi, a/éé. Pliny’s remarks on the ceraunia are served up again by 
Solin. 20. 15, 23. 9, Isid. orig. 16. 13. 5, and Myth. Vat. 3. 8. 7f. See further the passages 
cited in Stephanus 7hes. Gr. Ling. iv. 1464 A and in the Zhes. Ling. Lat. iii. 856, 45 ff., 
857, 9 ff. Cp. also Damigeron de lapidibus (printed in J. B. Pitra Spictlegium Solesmense 
Parisiis 1855 iii. 324 ff. and better edited by E. Abel as a sequel to Orph. Zz¢h. Berolini 
1881) praef. p. 162, rg Abel Lapis quartus, qui dicitur ceraunius, sagittarii, 12 p. 173, 
8 ff. Abel Lapzs Ceraunius. Ceraunius est lapis, quem Aegyptii smaragdum vocant ; 
invenitur autem in illis locis, ubi fulminis iactus fit; narratur tamen ex contritione nubium 
inter se fieri et pro hac causa hoc nomen meruit. Hunce siquis cum castitate portat, 
numquam a fulmine ferietur, nec domus, nec villa in qua fuerit. Praeterea si habuerit 
eum aliquis navigans, non periclitabitur per fulmen aut turbinem. Ampliusque ad omnem 
victoriam et certamen qui portat eum exsuperabit in omnem rem. Sed et oracula dat 
obsecranti, in somnis bona somnia; tanta est virtus huius ceraunii lapidis. Damigeron’s 
account, with some additions from Pliny, was hitched into hexameters and passed on 

to the middle ages by Marbodus (bishop of Rennes—died 1123 A.D.) Méder lapidum 
seu de gemmis (ed. J. Beckmann Gottingae 1799) 28 De ceraunio. Ventorum rabie cum 


508 Lightning as a weapon 


ene Pip 





Fig. 384. 


turbidus aestuat aér, | Cum tonat horrendum, cum fulgurat igneus aether, | Nubibus 
illisis, coelo cadit iste lapillus, | Cuius apud Graecos extat de fulmine nomen. | Illis 
quippe locis, quos constat fulmine tactos, | Iste lapis tantum reperiri posse putatur. | 
Unde ceraunius est graeco sermone vocatus. | Nam quod nos fulmen, Graeci dixere 
ceraunon. | Qui caste gerit hunc, a fulmine non ferietur, | Nec domus aut villae, quibus 
affuerit lapis ille. | Sed neque navigio per flumen vel mare vectus, | Turbine mergetur, 
vel fulmine percutietur. | Ad caussas etiam, vincendaque proelia prodest, | Et dulces 
somnos, et dulcia somnia praestat. | Huic binae dantur species, totidemque colores. | 
Crystallo similem Germania mittere fertur, | Caeruleo tamen infectum rutiloque colore. | 
Mittit et Hispanus, regione manens Lusitana, | Flammas spernentem, similemque colore 
pyropo. Later references are given by G. F. Kunz The Curious Lore of Precious Stones 
Philadelphia & London 1913 pp. 34, 134, 162, 7d. The Magic of Jewels and Charms 
Philadelphia & London rgi5 pp. 76f., 92, 94f., 106 ff., 161, 350. 


Lightning as a weapon 509 


information which he derived from Sotakos of Karystos, a Hellenistic 
writer on precious stones. 

Monumental evidence for the like beliefs in the classical area is 
fairly abundant. A ‘Minoan’ grave at Phaistos yielded a small celt 
of softish black stone, not steatite, pierced with a hole and doubtless 
worn as an amulet (fig. 382). A very ancient votive deposit from 
Norba in Latium includes a small celt of green stone encircled length- 
wise by an iron band, which must once have ended in a hook for 
attachment (fig. 383), A tomb at JVarce in the Faliscan district con- 


® 
Pook 





Fig. 386. Fig. 387. 


tained a small celt of diorite serving as pendant to a necklace of 
beads made in blue vitreous paste (fig. 384)’. In the Fiihrer catacomb 
at Syracuse a celt of greenish serpentine flecked with white, which 
has a partially bored hole at one end, was found on the breast 
of a woman (fig. 385)*—a good example of a pagan superstition 
surviving into Christian times. In Spain two small celts of fibrolite 
were used as prophylactic pendants (figs. 386, 387)°. At Vettersfelde 
in Nieder-Lausitz, a district of Brandenburg, a remarkable hoard of 
objects in gold—the complete equipment of a Scythian chief—was 


1 L. Savignoni ‘ Scavi e scoperte nella necropoli di Phaestos’ in the Mon. ad. Linc. 
Igo4 xiv. 616 with fig. 75 (on p. 606)=my fig. 382, C. Blinkenberg of. cét. pp. 22 f. 
fig. 10, 108. Height: 0'026™. 

* R. Mengarelli and R. Paribeni ‘ Scavi sulle terrazze sostenute da mura poligonali 
presso |’ Abbazia di Valvisciolo’ in the Mot. Scavi 1909 p. 257 fig. 23=my fig. 383, 
C. Blinkenberg of. czt. p. 108. 

3 A. Pasqui ‘ Delle tombe di Narce e dei loro corredi’ in the Mou. d. Linc. 1894 iv. 
490, C. Blinkenberg of. czt. pp. 29 fig. 16 (=my fig. 384), 108. 

+ P. Orsi ‘La catacomba di Fiihrer nel predio Adorno-Avolio in Siracusa’ in the 
Rémische Quartalschrift fiir christliche Alterthumskunde und fiir Kirchengeschichte 1895 
ix. 476 ff. pl. 2 fig. i (=my fig. 385). 

5 L. Siret Questions de chronologie et d’ethnographie ibérigues Paris 1913 i. 252 f. 
fig. 85, 3 and 4 (=my figs. 386, 387), 276 fig. 101, 15. 


yee Lightning as a weapon 


turned up by the ploughshare in 18821: among these objects was 
a small celt of dark serpentine, half-sheathed in gold and fitted 
with a hollow cylinder for suspension 
(fig. 388). There can be little doubt that 
the celt was worn as an amulet in the early 
decades of s. v B.C. 

Of special interest are certain examples 
that bear incised inscriptions. A magni- 
ficent axe-head of brown banded agate, 
acquired by Cardinal S. Borgia(1731—1804) 
probably from some missionary to the East, 
later in the Tyszkiewicz collection, and 
now in the American Museum of Natural 
History at New York, has cut upon it a 
Sumerian inscription in archaic cuneiform 
characters (fig. 389)%. The inscription ap- 
- pears to record the owner of the axe, but 

Fig. 388. not its dedication to a god. The im- 
plement is, however, in all probability of a votive character. Its 
epigraphy points to a period ¢ 2000 B.C.’ A celt of serpentine, 








1 A. Furtwangler Der Goldfund von Vettersfelde (Winckelmannsfest-Progr. Berlin 
xliii) Berlin 1883 pp. 1—52 with cuts in the text and three pls.=/d. Klecne Schriften 
Miinchen 1912 i. 469—516, pls. 18—20, E. H. Minns Scythzans and Greeks Cambridge 
1913 pp. 236—239 figs. 145—148. 

2 A. Furtwangler Der Goldfund von Vettersfelde p. 10 pl. t, 3=id. Kleine Schriften 
i. 475 pl. 18, 3, C. Blinkenberg of. cit. pp. 17 fig. 6 (=my fig. 388), 108, E. H. Minns 
op. cit. pp. 64, 236 (cp. 24. p. 398 n. 11). 

3 E. H. Minns of. cit. p. 236. 

4G. F. Kunz ‘On the ancient inscribed Sumerian (Babylonian) axe-head for the 
Morgan Collection in the American Museum of Natural History,’ with translation by 
Prof. I. M. Price and discussion by Dr W. H. Ward, in the Audletin of the American 
Museum of Natural History 1905 xxi. 37—47, I. M. Price ‘An ancient Babylonian 
(Ax-head) Inscription’ in Zhe American Journal of Semitic Languages and Literatures 
1904—I905 xxi. 173—178 with figs., G. F. Kunz Zhe Curious Lore of Precious Stones 
Philadelphia & London 1913 pp. 232—234 with pl. (=my fig. 389), F. Lenormant ‘ Tre 
monumenti caldei ed assiri di collezioni romane’ in the Azll. Comm. Arch. Comun. di 
Roma 1879 vii. 19—25 pl. 6, 1, E. Cartailhac La France préhistorique Paris 1889 p. 4 
fig. 1, G. Maspero The Dawn of Civilization* London r1gor p. 755 fig. 

> I am indebted for this information to my friend Mr Sidney Smith, who examined 
and criticised for me the readings propounded by other Assyriclogists. He says: ‘The 
probable translation is ‘‘Had-himil, elder brother of Adad-ili.” The first name might 
also be read Hattish.’ Mr Smith adds that a votive hammer-head of Shudurkib, last king 
of the Sargonid dynasty of Akkad, is now in the British Museum and will be published 
in Cunezform Texts Part 36. 

H. Zimmern ‘Zu den Weihinschriften der Kassiten-Konige’ in the Zettschrift fiir 
Assyriologte 1898 xiii. 302 ff. put together and elucidated the text of an inscription, in 
which the Kassite king Nazi-MaruttaS dedicates to Bel an axe ‘of brilliant lapis-lazuli’... 
‘for his life and the welfare of his land.’ 


Lightning as a weapon cau 


found in the Argolid and preserved in the Central Museum at 
Athens, is engraved with two Mithraic subjects and an inscription in 
Greek letters (fig. 390)". A smaller celt of dark green jade or 





Fig. 389. 


nephrite, brought from Egypt in 1812 by Colonel Milner, azde-de- 
camp to Lord J. Bathurst, and presented by Mrs Milner to the 
Christy collection, is covered on both faces with ‘Gnostic’ inscriptions 


1 A. Dumont in G. de Mortillet Matériaux pour Vhistotre primitive et philosophique 
de V homme Saint-Germain en Laye 1868 iv. g first drew attention to this axe. E. T, 
Stevens //imt Chifs London 1870 p. 114 and Sir J. Evans Zhe Ancient Stone [mple- 
ments, Weapons and Ornaments, of Great Britain” London 1897 p. 61 f. followed suit. 
E. Cartailhac L’dge de pierre dans les souvenirs et superstitions populaires Paris 1877 
p- 31 fig. 14 = Perrot—Chipiez Hist. de 7’ Art vi. 119 fig. 5 (inaccurate). Harrison 7hemds 
p- 57 fig. 6 (inscription corrected, after Rk. M. Dawkins). My illustration is from an im- 
pression in plaster kindly furnished by Mr B. Staes. 


ey Lightning as a weapon 


(fig. 391)!. Lastly, the paraphernalia of a diviner, discovered in the 
lower town at Pergamon and thence transferred to Berlin, comprise 
among other items of interest three polished black stones inscribed. 
on both sides with magical formulae, the text of which is virtually 
identical on all three stones (fig. 392)%.. It was pointed out by 





Fig. 390. 


R. Wiinsch that these stones are simply slices of one or more neo- 
lithic celts, cut up to serve as amulets. Special virtue was doubtless 
attributed to any section of a thunderbolt. 

It would seem, then, that the beliefs attaching to neolithic celts 
among the modern Greeks can be traced back to classical times. 


1 Brigadier-General Sir H. Lefroy in The Archaeological Journal 1868 xxv. 151 f., 
C. W. King ‘On a Ceraunia of jade converted into a Gnostic talisman’ 76, 1868 xxv. 
103—116 with pl. (=my fig. 391), E. T. Stevens Flint Chzps London 1870 p. 109 f., 
Sir J, Evans Zhe Ancient Stone Implements, Weapons and Ornaments, of Great Britain* 
London 1897 p. 6of. fig. 11, G. F. Kunz 7he Curious Lore of Precious Stones Philadelphia 
& London 19173 p. 129 fig. and pl. opposite p. 122. 

2 A. Conze in the Ath. Mitth. 1899 xxiv. 199 f., R. Wiinsch Antikes Zaubergerat aus 
Pergamon (Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. Erganzungsheft vi) Berlin 1905 pp. 16f., 
39 ff. pl. 4, figs. 16—20 (=my fig. 392), C. Blinkenberg Zhe Thunderweapon in 
Religion and Folklore Cambridge 1911 pp. 16f. figs. 5A, 5B (from photographs), 108. 
Supra i. 285 n. I. 


The double axe in ‘Minoan’ cult 513 


That being so, it is reasonable to push the investigation one step 
further and raise the question whether the like beliefs were already 
operant in the great pre-classical civilisation known to us as ‘Minoan,’ 









< ee “4 
~Y 
7) 


i 










































































Hig. 309Ke 


i. The double axe in ‘Minoan’ cult. 


Looking round for evidence, we are at once impressed by the 
prominent position accorded to the double axe in cults of the 
‘Minoan’ age. Here, however, in the absence of deciphered docu- 
ments, we must move with the greatest caution. The double axe 
is an implement apt to cut both ways. It has already lent itself 
to diametrically opposite interpretations’. And the assumption that 
it was the hatchet of a sky-god, though a legitimate hypothesis, 
is hardly self-evident. In such a matter the only safe plan of pro- 
cedure is to classify without prejudice the extant examples of the 
object in dispute, and to see how far our hypothesis will serve 
to explain their complex details. 


1 This, if nothing more, is made plain by the polemic of my friend Dr W. H. D. Rouse 
‘The Double Axe and the Labyrinth’ in the Journ. Hel/. Stud. 1901 xxi. 268—274. 


rou ff 33 


ie The double axe in mid air 


(a) The double axe in mid air. 


In the cult-scenes of ‘Minoan’ art the double axe sometimes 
appears as an isolated object suspended in the air. The famous gold 














KaPra NQALAZ fa 
NAZMAE pK aoZAV Sava 
(s Kad MIXAHAPABPIN A >. 
PO PrOVCHA Pa DHAM & Nx On @ 
IDIAAGm Amp Zz oKT EPS 3 
CEENN QDAIMIALATPOMEND 
3 DEINA OP EOTEP INZ APA 
MAHL IM QONDYP'NoNM eP Koy 
PNA PON oC AMM Et a Date 
pe 

a Tax 3 9S erie ee 
ws WA ad 














uth 






it 


i 
M 








ni 
| 









ring found by Drosinos and P. Stamatakes in a complex of buildings 
on the lower terrace of the Akropolis at Mykenai and now preserved 
in the Central Museum at Athens? affords a case in point (supra 
p. 47, fig. 18), It shows a female figure seated on stony ground 


' Stais Coll. Mycénienne: Athénes p. 66 f. no. 992. 

2 Fig. 18 is after Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. sgot xxi. 108 fig. 4 
(scale #). O. Rossbach in the Arch. Zett. 1883 xli. 169—173 fig. has a careful line-drawing 
(scale +) made from two impressions of the ring in different materials. Furtwangler Azz. 


The double axe in mid air ore 


beneath a vine (?)', with three poppy-heads in her hand. Two other 
females approach, with gestures of adoration, bringing her lilies and 
lotuses. The goddess and her attendant nymphs, if such they are, 
alike wear lilies in their hair, necklaces, and divided skirts: their 
waists are tightly constricted, their breasts prominent and _ bare’. 
Immediately in front of the goddess and represented on a much 
smaller scale a woman stands on a heap of stones or rude altar 
to offer flowers. Behind the tree another woman, on the same small 
scale, uplifts her hands in worship. The scene is closed on the left 
by a row of six lion-heads*. These suggest the cult of Rhea‘, who 
being an earth-mother might well hold poppy-heads? and receive 
gifts of flowers® as she sat beneath a vine’. Her place at Argos, 
Sparta, and Mykenai was later taken by the Greek Hera®. And it 
can hardly be accidental that a statue of Hera at Argos had a wreath 
of vine-shoots on its head and a lion-skin beneath its feet®. More- 
over, Hera is expressly stated to have loved lilies. In short, it seems 
highly probable that the gold ring found at Mykenai commemorates 
the great goddess of the locality, the ‘Minoan’ Rhea. But if the 
lower part of the design gives us the earth, the upper part gives us 
the sky. The sun and moon are manifest, with a double wavy line 


Gemmen i pl. 2, 20 gives a photograph of an impression, and 7d. ii. g f..a bibliography 
and description, 

1 Opinions differ. H. Schliemann AZycen@ London 1878 p. 354 ff. fig. 530 consulted 
two professors of botany at Athens: one of these experts, T. Orphanides, concluded that 
the tree is ‘a breadfruit-tree’(!); the other, whom Schliemann follows, pronounced it to 
be ‘simply a vine laden with bunches of grapes.’ C. Schuchhardt Schliemann’s Excava- 
tions trans. E. Sellers London 1891 p. 276 ff. fig. 281 says: ‘a clumsy representation of — 
a vine.’ Collignon Hist. de la Sculpt. gr. i. 45 tf. fig. 23: ‘un pin.’ Perrot—Chipiez 
Hist. de l’Art vi. 840 ff. fig. 425: ‘un pin ou un olivier.’ Stais Joc. cit.: ‘olivier?’ 
Furtwangler Joc. cit. : ‘ein dicht belaubter Baum.’ 

2 This ‘Minoan’ usage ultimately gave rise to two Homeric epithets, Ba@vfwvos, ‘ deep- 
girt’ (¢.e. with girdle cutting deeply into the waist), and Ba@vKodzos, * deep-bosomed ' 
(¢.e. with deep hollow between the breasts): see F. Studniczka Beitrage zur Geschichte 
der altgriechischen Tracht Wien 1886 pp. 120f., 104, W. Amelung in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Ence. iii. 2314, E. B. Abrahams Greek Dress London 1908 p. 15 f. 

3 So Furtwangler of. c7¢. ii. Io. 

4 A. Milchhofer Die Anfange der Kunst in Griechenland Leipzig 1883 pp. 35, 102 
fig. 39 rightly regards the figures in the foreground as a group of divinities, vz. Mother 
Rhea receiving fruit and flowers from her nymphs (face C. Schuchhardt of. c7¢. p. 277 f. 
and M. Mayer in the Jahré. d. hais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1892 vil. 190). 

5 Cornut. theol. 6 p. 6, 7 f. Lang kwéiay & dvaréaow airy mapiordvres, Ore airia rips 
fwoyovias atirn éyévero. Cp. Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1542 0. I. 

6 Orph. 2. Zrot. 38. 6 “Péa (so W. Wiel for Gea) ...xNodKaprros. 

7 Ap. Rhod. 1. 1117 ff., Euphorion frag. 146 Meineke af. schol. Ap. Rhod. 1. tr19. 

S704, e5 One 

® Tert. de cor. mil. 7, cp. Essays and Studies presented to William Ridgeway on his 
sixtieth birthday 6 August 19137 Cambridge 1913 p. 220 Nn. 3. 

10 Clem. Al. paed. 2. 8. 72. 4 p. 201. 24 Stahlin (quoted supra i. 624 n. 2). 


33-2 


516 The double axe in relation 


beneath them, best taken to denote the Milky Way! conceived as 
Okeanos the celestial river. Below this are two significant objects. 
To the left is a shield with human head, hands, and feet projecting 
from behind it: it grasps a spear or staff and is—to judge from 
analogous representations*—conceived as descending through the 
air. To the right, and occupying the very centre of the field, is a 
double axe with duplicated blades likewise descending from the 
region of the sun and moon towards the goddess and her exdéourage. 
It is reasonable to suppose that the shield and axe thus falling from 
above are the weapons of the sky-god. Further than that we cannot 
at present go. 

Another example of the double axe in mid air has been thought 
to occur on a clay sealing found by D. G. Hogarth in a ‘Minoan’ 
house at Kato Zakro, a village of eastern Crete*. But of this impress * 
a more likely explanation has been advanced by G. Karo, as we 
shall subsequently see’. 


(8) The double axe in relation to tree- or plant-forms. 


In a second group of cult-scenes the double axe is brought into 
more intimate relations with tree-or plant-forms. A small sarcophagus, 
discovered by the Italian excavators close to the palace at Hagza 
Triada, two miles to the north-west of Phaistos, and now to be seen 
in the Museum at Kanda, has first claim upon our attention®. It was 
found, lidless, empty, and partially damaged, in a rectangular tomb- 
building, which can be referred to the end of the period known as 
‘Late Minoan ii’ or the beginning of ‘Late Minoan iii,’ that is, to a 
date c. 1400 B.C. The sarcophagus, made of greyish limestone, in 


1 Supra p. 49 0. I. 2 Supra p. 481 f. 

3 See the sarcophagus from AMilato (Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 
xxl. 174 fig. 50) and the gold ring from Knossos (2d. 2b. rgo1 xxi. 170 fig. 48). Supra 
Pp. 47 ff. 

+ D. G. Hogarth in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1902 xxii. 77 f. fig. 5, cp. Sir A. J. Evans 
in the Anz. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1900—190O1 Vil. 54. 

> Infra § 3 (c) i (x). 

6 R. Paribeni in the Rendiconti d. Lincet 1903 xii. 343 ff. (description), zd. ‘ Ricerche 
nel sepolcreto di Haghia Triada presso Phaestos’ in the Aon. d. Linced 1904 xiv. 714—719, 
zd. ‘11 sarcofago dipinto di Haghia Triada’ in the Mon. d. Lincet 1908 xix. 5— 86 with 
23 figs. in text and 3 minutely accurate coloured plates by Stefani (=my pl. xxvii). The 
three articles together constitute the most authoritative account of this important monu- 
ment. For further discussion see F. M. J. Lagrange ‘La Créte ancienne’ in the Revue 
Biblique internationale Nouvelle Série 1907 iv. 338—345 figs. 30—32, 34f. (inexact), 
A. J. Reinach ‘Le Sarcophage de Haghia Triada’ in the Rev. Arch. 1908 ii. 278—288 
with 4 figs., F. von Duhn ‘ Der Sarkophag aus Hagia Triada’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1909 
xii. 161—185 pls. 2—4, E. Petersen ‘Der kretische Bildersarg’ in the Jahrb. d. hats. 
deutsch. arch. Inst. 1909 xxiv. 162—170 with 5 figs., Harrison Zhemis pp. 158 ff. 
fig. 30f., 209 f. 








Plate XXVII 








b 


The painted limestone savcop/ex'4 from Hagia Triada near Phaistos. 





to tree- or plant-forms ei 


shape imitates a wooden coffer, and is covered with a skin of fine 
white stucco. On this ground the designs were drawn in yellow and 
painted in a variety of colours. 

The decoration comprises four panels, two long and two short. 
Of the long sides one represents animal and vegetable offerings at a 
‘Minoan’ shrine (pl. xxvii, a). From the left a procession of five 
women with bare white feet and long coloured robes advances towards 
a table-altar, on which lies a spotted bull bound with red bands. 
The blood flows from his throat into an @zxzon! or bucket on the 
ground; his frightened eyes are wide open; and his tail still whisks. 
Beneath the table two goats, of some domesticated species, wait their 
turn. Behind it stands a red-skinned man playing a double flute; 
his hair is long and falls in a couple of black tresses down his back; 
a bordered robe covers him from neck to knee. Further to the right 
a woman is standing at a small altar. She wears an ornament of 
gold in her black hair, a white jacket sleeved to the elbow and 
bordered with pink, and a baggy white skirt tailed and tufted with 
red. She extends her hands over a small basin or basket, placed on 
the altar. Above it, that is, beyond it are visible a beaked jug some- 
what resembling an ozwochdée and a two-handled basket full of fruit. 
On the extreme right is a larger altar, of similar architectural design 
but surmounted by four pairs of ritual horns?. Behind grows a sacred 
tree probably meant for an olive*. Between the adjacent altars 
appears a platform or base of two courses, from which rises a large 
double axe of most remarkable aspect. A tapering pillar or tree- 


1 Od. 3. 444 duviov. Eustath. 2 Od. p. 1476, 38 ff. Kpijres 6€ duvidy paow ayyetov 
els 5 76 alua Tv lepetwy éd€éxovTo, aluvidy Te dv mapa Td aiua. ILdpoudos ob 6 ‘lepamv’rvios 
ioropel, pact, mapa Tots ‘lepamurvias ert cbfecbar Thy pavyy, aluviov, dacéws peta TOU KaT’ 
apxnv iGra mpopepouévynv mapa To alua. Pyot dé kal ’AmoANSdwpos ws elkds Hv Kal Tapa TW 
TonTy oiTws avTo mpopéperOar, meprapeOjvar dé 7d (Ora bd Twwy, cp. schol. H.M.Q.R. 
Od. 3. 444. See further Stephanus 7hes. Gr. Ling. i. 2.133 C—D, G. Meyer Gréechische 
Grammatik® Leipzig 1896 p. 267, Prellwitz Eiym. Wéorterb. d. Gr. Spr.? p. 34, Boisacq 
Dict. étym. dela Langue Gr. p. 54- 

The blood collected in the &uvioy would then be poured over the altar (Eustath. 
loc. cit. p. 1476, 41 f. ’Arruxol 6é opd-yov TO Tovodroy dyyelov Exddovy, els 6 mp&rov aiua 
dexduevae TY Bwuw éeréxeov =schol. H. M.Q.R. Od. 3. 444)—a rite suggestive of chthonian 
worship (S. Eitrem ‘Opferritus und Voropfer der Griechen und Romer’ in the Véden- 
skapsselskapets Skrifier ii Hist.-Filos. Klasse rgt4 no. 1 Kristiania 1915 p. 434 f.). 

2 Cp. supra i. 506 ff. 

3 R. Paribeni in the Rendiconti d. Lincet 1903 xii. 348 takes the tree to be either an 
olive or a laurel. But in the Mon. da. Lincet 1908 xix. 42 f. he decides for an olive. So 
do A. J. Reinach in the Rev. Arch. 1908 ii. 282 (‘derriére, semble s’épanouir un olivier’), 
F. von Duhn in the Archiv f. Rel. 1909 xii. 164 (‘ Lorbeer oder Ol, wahrscheinlich 
letzteres’), Harrison 7hemis p. 161 (‘an unmistakable olive-tree’), H. R. Hall 4gean 
Archeology London 1915 p. 174 (‘an olive-tree’), F. M. J. Lagrange in the Revue 
Biblique internationale Nouvelle Série 1907 iv. 341 thinks it a shrub rather than a tree, 
and suggests the agzus castus. 


518 The double axe in relation 


trunk, coloured pink (wood?), forms as it were the handle of a double 
axe, coloured yellow (gold?)!. The blades of this axe are dupli- 
cated—as on the ring from Mykenai?—and marked with diagonals. 
Upon them is perched a bird of black plumage, almost certainly to 
be identified as a raven*. The background of the panel changes from 
yellow to white and from white to blue as the eye travels from left 
to right; but this change of colour is apparently due to mere love of 
variety. The design as a whole puts beyond doubt the actual worship 
of the double axe. That here, as on the Mycenaean ring, it was 
conceived as the sky-god’s weapon may be inferred partly from its 
elevated position, set on the apex of a tapering pillar, partly from its 
association with a raven, that prophet of the coming storm’. 


1 R. Paribeni in the A/ox. d. Lincet 1908 xix. 43 ‘la doppia ascia d’ oro,’ cp. 26. p. 29 
‘due doppie asce d’ oro o di metallo dorato.’ 2 Supra p. 47 fig. 18. 

3 R. Paribeni in the Rendiconti d. Lincet 1903 xii. 344, 348 regarded the birds repre- 
sented on the axes of this sarcophagus as pigeons or ravens. But in the Zon. ad. Lincet 
1908 xix. 31 f., 43 he prefers ravens (‘corvi’) to pigeons (‘colombe’). G. Karo in the 
Archiv f. Rel. 1904 vii. 130 makes them eagles (‘Adler’). F. M. J. Lagrange in the 
Revue Biblique internationale Nouvelle Série 1907 iv. 341 f. would recognise a crow or 
an eagle on one side of the sarcophagus (‘on dirait d’un corbeau ou d’un aigle’), but 
pigeons on the other (‘la physionomie est ici celle de colombes plutét que celle de corbeaux 
ou d’aigles’). A. J. Reinach in the Rev. Arch. 1908 ii. 281 f. leaves the matter undecided 
(‘corbeau ou colombe,—colombe noire comme celles de Dodone,’ ‘un oiseau noir’). Sir 
A. J. Evans in the Zransactions of the Third International Congress for the History of 
Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 195 says: ‘ perhaps the sacred black woodpeckers of the Cretan 
Zeus.’ J. E. Harrison 7d. ii. 155: ‘a bird of black colour, possibly a pigeon or, as 
Dr Evans suggests, a black woodpecker.’ Cp. Sir A. J. Evans in Archaeologia 1914 xv. 54 
‘perhaps the sacred woodpecker, afterwards identified with the Cretan Zeus.’ E. Petersen 
in the Jahré. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1909 xxiv. 163 argues for a cuckoo (‘ Kuckuck’). 
H. R. Hall “gean Archeology London 1915 p- 173 speaks of ‘a bird which looks 
very like a magpie,’ but 2d. p. 175 adds: ‘One may wonder whether this apparent magpie 
is not really intended for an eagle, the sacred bird of Zeus.” F. von Duhn in the Archiv f- 
Rel. 1909 xii. 166 ff. states that at first he thought the bird a dove (‘Taube’), but that, 
after inspecting the original, he pronounced it to be a raven (‘Rabe’). He reports 2d. 
p. 167 n. 2 the expert opinion of W. Warde Fowler: ‘I have examined the birds with a 
strong magnifying glass, and have no hesitation in identifying them as ravens: the one in 
the upper plate to the right is quite unmistakeable to the eye of anyone accustomed to 
observe birds out of doors, as I have done for the last thirty-five years and more. The 
other two are not quite so convincing, but must, I think, be the same. They all have the 
outline of head and beak which is peculiar to the raven (corvus corax) and which even 
the crow (corvus corone) has not in quite the same degree, nor any other bird known to 
me. I mean that there is only a very slight depression where the beak emerges from the 
feathers of the head, so that the upper outline of the bird’s head is almost an uninterrupted 
curve. Perhaps I ought to mention that the raven of the southern Mediterranean is smaller 
than ours and unknown to me (c. umbrinus), but I believe that it resembles the northern 
bird in everything but colouration. I am certain these birds cannot be woodpeckers : 
apart from the head and beak no one sees a black woodpecker perched as these are.’ 
This authoritative verdict may well be allowed to decide the issue. 

4 Aristot. frag. 241 Rose af. Ail. de nat. an. 7.7 Kbpaké 6é érirpdxws (so R. Hercher 
for raxéws kal émirpdxws codd.) Pbeyyomevos kal kpodwy Tas mrépuyas kal Kpor@y avrds, bre 


to tree- or plant-forms 519 


The other long side of the sarcophagus (pl. xxvii, 6) depicts two 
“scenes, distinguished from each other, not so much by the variable 
background (white—blue—white), as by the fact that the human 
figures at the point of junction are standing back to back. On the 
left we see another episode from the ritual of the double axe!. A red- 
skinned man, wearing his hair short with a fore-lock?, and clad ina 


XEtucw Eorar KaTéyvw mparos. Kdpaké d€ ab Kal copwyn Kal KoNords deidns dias El POEyyouvTo, 
XEtuavos EcecOai rwa Emtdnuiay diddoxovor, Theophr. de stents tempest. 16 Kdpaé moddas 
meraBadXew elwOws pwvds, rovTwy édv Taxd dis PbéyEnrat Kal émippoejon Kal Twain TH 
mrepd, dwp onuaive. Kal édy berGv dvtrwy todNas peTaBdddAy gwvas kal éav POeiplenrac 
ém’ éNalas. Kal édv Te evdlas édy Te tdaTos dvTos mipATa TH Pwvy oloy cradaypovs, Vdwp 
onualver, édy Te KOpaKes Edy Te KoAOLOl dvw TéTwYTaL Kal lepakifwow, Udwp onualvovor. Kal 
éav Képag evdias uh Thy elwOviay puvhy ty Kal émippo.Bdy, Vdwp onualver, 39 Kal Kopwrn Kal 
Képaé Kal Ko\ouds dWe adovres Xemmépior, 40 Kdpa~ Puvas modas peTAaBddrwy YEimdvos XEL- 
uéptov, Arat. phaen. 963 ff. 64 wore kal yeveal kopdxwy Kal Pda Kod\oay | Wdaros épxouevoto 
Avss rapa oj’ éyévovro, | pawduevoe ayednda Kal ipjxecow dpuotov | PbeyEdwevan. Kal ov 
Képaxes dious ctahaypovs (diovs dé ctadaypmovs cod. G. dlovs ye crahaymovs cod. L. Sdious 
aTadanuovs is proposed in Stephanus 7es. Gr. Ling. vii. 652 B) | Pwvn emujnoavto ody 
Udaros épxouévoro, | 4 mote kal xkpwiavte Bapely ducodxe pwvy | waxpov émipporfetor Twakd- 
fevou wrepa muxvd with schol. ad doc., Nik. ther. 406 xépaé 7’ duB8prnpea kpdfwy with schol. 
ad loc., Plout. de sanitate praecepla 14 dromwov yap é€oTt Kopaxwy wéev Napvyytopots...émt- 
MeAGs mpocéxe, onucla Mocovméevous mvevudtav Kal buBpwv: Kx.7.r., Ail. de nat. an. 6. 19 
BovXerar O€ THY CuBpwv pmmeiobar Tas graydvas oO Kdpak, Geofon. 1. 3. 8 Kal Kdpaxes Kal 
KoNotol dOpdws emipawéouevor kal Kpwfovres (kpdfovres codd. H.M.)...duBpov onuatvovor, 
and the passages cited in the Zhes. Ling. Lat. iv. 1079, 31 ff. See further D’Arcy W. 
Thompson 4 Glossary of Greek Birds Oxford 1895 p. 94, O. Keller Die antike Tierwelt 
Leipzig 1913.ii. 98 f., Gossen in Pauly—Wissowa Keal-Enc. i A. 21. 

Ravens were prophets of fine weather also (Theophr. de signs tempest. 52 kat xbpaé de 
fdvos mev jovxatoy Kpatwy, kal éav Tpis Kpaty wera ToUTO moAAdKis Kpaéy, evdrewds, Arat. 
phaen. 1003 ff. kal Kdpaxes modvor pev Epnuator BodwyTes | dtaodkis, avTap éretra wey’ aOpda 
kexiyyyovtes (kexAnya@res cod. L.)* | x.7.A. with schol. ad loc., Geopon. 1. 2.6 Kat xdpakes 
metoves ayeAndov wamep XalpovTes Kal KpwrovTes (Kpadg¢ovres codd. H. M.) avouBpiay dndovor, 
Plin. zaz. hist. 18. 362 corvique singultu quodam latrantes seque concutientes, si continua- 
bunt, serenum <diem (ins. Oehmichen)>; si vero carptim vocem resorbebunt, ventosum 
imbrem. On Verg. georg. 1. 410 ff. see W. Warde Fowler A Year with the Birds® Oxford 
1886 p. 150 ff., T. F. Royds Zhe Beasts, Birds, and Bees of Virgil» Oxford 1918 p. 40 ff.). 

We need not, therefore, hold with D. A. Mackenzie JZyths of Crete & Pre-Hellenic 
Europe London s.a. p. 290 f. that ravens are necessarily ‘ birds of ill omen, who foretell 
death and disaster’ or that the birds on the sarcophagus are ‘the raven spirits of Hades... 
receiving a propitiatory offering of blood or wine.’ F. von Duhn in the Archiv f. Rel. 
190g xii. 167 f. takes a wider and a wiser view. I should, however, be inclined to add 
that the bird was perhaps originally regarded, not ‘als himmlischer Bote’ etc., but as 
a telephany of the sky-god himself (swgva p. 187). See further O. Keller ‘Rabe und 
Krahe im Altertum’ in the Jahresbericht des Vereins fiir Volkskunde und Linguistih in 
Prag 1893. 

1 F. M. J. Lagrange in the Revue Bitligue internationale Nouvelle Série 1907 iv. 344 
holds that the first long side of the sarcophagus together with the first portion of the 
second long side forms a continuous frieze, the subject of which is the cult of ¢hree sets of 
axes on handles. Obvious objections to this view are (1) the very different treatment of 
the axe-handles on the two sides of the sarcophagus ; (2) the interposition of one of the 
short sides between the two long sides ; (3) a serious lack of symmetry. 

2 Supra i. 23 n. 6 sub fin. 


PAS The double axe in relation 


bordered pink robe that reaches from his shoulders to his bare feet, 
advances slowly from right to left. He holds a large golden lyre, 
which has seven strings and sides shaped like the necks of swans’. 
As he goes, he plucks the strings of the lyre, but apparently uses no 
pléktron®. In front of him moves a woman, whose fore-lock and 
front curls peep out from beneath a golden head-dress of peculiar 
type. She is clothed in a blue jacket and skirt with coloured borders; 
and she carries a pink pole, on which are slung two particoloured 
buckets. Before her stands another woman, wearing a white jacket 
sleeved to the elbow and bordered with blue, also a baggy white 
skirt tailed and tagged with red. She is engaged in pouring a red 
liquid (wine? blood??) out ‘of another brightly coloured bucket? 
into a larger jar or kratér, which, being painted blue with circular 
bands of yellow, may be taken to represent a silver vessel inlaid with 
gold. It rests on a base between two pedestals, one consisting 
of superposed steps, the other resembling a truncated pyramid‘. 
From each of these pedestals there springs a tapering pillar or tree- 
trunk, thickly covered with green leaves® and serving as the haft of 
a yellow (gold?) double axe with duplicated blades and ravens (?) 
perched upon them. As to the meaning of this scene, E. Petersen 
has rightly insisted on the contrast between the one bare stem and 
the two leafy stems, arguing that the former betokens the worship 


1 Clearly shown by A. Mosso Zhe Palaces of Crete and thetr Builders London 1907 
Po Gi 7trie. 150; 

2 R. Paribeni in the Jon. d. Lincet 1908 xix. 37. 

3 R. Paribeni in the Mon. d. Lincet 1908 xix. 33 f., 36 regards all these buckets as 
situlae of decorated metal (gold, silver, copper). 

4 Pedestals of the sort have come to light in the palace at Hagia Triada (R. Paribeni 
in the Rendiconti d. Lincei 1903 xii. 338, zd. in the Mon. d. Lincet 1908 xix. 30), in the 
palace at Phaistos (L. Pernier 7d. 1902 xii. 69 and 103), at Palatkastro (R. C. Bosanquet 
in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901—1902 viii. 300), in a small house at Knossos (Sir 
A. J. Evans in Archaeologia 1914 \xv. 68), in the ‘ Little Palace’ at Knossos (7d. 76. 1914 
Ixv. 72), and in the Dictaean Cave (2d. 7b. 1914 Ixv. 72 fig. 82). 

> R. Paribeni in the Mon. d. Linced 1908 xix. 29 thinks that the trunks are those of 
palm-trees and suggests the date-palm ( phoenix dactylifera), but notes that palm-trunks 
are cylindrical, not conical like these. His identification as palms is accepted by 
A. J. Reinach in the Rev. A7ch. 1908 ii. 281 f. and by J. E. Harrison in the 7vans- 
actions of the Third International Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 
154f. E. Petersen in the Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1909 xxiv. 163, 168, 170, is 
more reserved (‘hier nur ein Pfeiler, dort zwei ; diese zwei mit griinem Laub umkleidet, 
jener eine kahl und ohne Griin,’ etc.). F. von Duhn in the Archiv f. Rel. 1909 xil. 173 
was the first to recognise obelisks covered with cypress-leaves (‘zwei cypressenge- 
schmiickte Obelisken’) and to recall the fact that at Knossos Rhea had an ancient grove of 
cypresses (supra i. 649 n. 3). Accordingly in the 7ransactions of the Third International 
Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 189 I wrote: ‘ Professor von Duhn 
kindly informs me that these supports are apparently pillars or posts covered with leaves 


—most probably with cypress leaves. If so, they were obviously ritual substitutes for 
cypress-trees.’ 


to tree- or plant-forms 521 


of the sky-god in the winter, the latter his marriage with the earth- 
goddess in the spring. Petersen remarks that of the two leaf-clad 
pillars one is noticeably larger than the other, and that its axe-head 
has the same diagonals as the axe-head of the leafless pillar—a 
hint that the paired pillars are those of god and goddess respectively’. 
We may, then, assume provisionally that the worshippers of the 
double axe as depicted on the sarcophagus are performing rites 
intended to call down the vernal showers and so bring about the 
revival of vegetation. 

But what of the second scene represented in immediate con- 
tiguity with this? Three bearers of offerings pass towards the right. 
Each has short hair and no clothing beyond a belt and a baggy 
white skirt tailed and tagged as before. The tags of these peculiar 
garments vary in colour, those of the first and last men being black, 
those of the second man red. All three have necklaces, and two have 
bracelets. Number one carries the model of a boat; number two, 
that of a white calf spotted with black; number three, that of a 
yellowish calf with spots of deeper yellow*. They are approaching 
a flight of three steps, coloured a dull red, beyond which is a tree of 
some doubtful species‘. By it stands a man of shorter stature, with 
a fore-lock of black curly hair. He is swathed in a white robe with 
red tags and yellow border, which covers and conceals his arms. 
Behind him a polychrome building, enriched with spirals, completes 
the design. Egyptian parallels, adduced by R. Paribeni*, have made 
it highly probable that the erect figure is that of a dead man, and 
that the building at his back is his tomb or tomb-chapel. His 
dwarfish height implies that he died young’. 


1 E. Petersen in the Jahré. d. hats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1909 xxiv. 163 ff. 

“Ath. ep LOSt Deel. 

3 R. Paribeni in the Mon. d. Lince? 1908 xix. 26 ff. is disposed to view the offerings 
as an actual boat and live calves, not mere models. Later critics, without discussing the 
matter, appear to agree with him. They may be right. But size and position alike point 
rather to the use of models, such as are common in the tombs of Egypt and other lands. 

4 So R. Paribeni in the Rendiconti d. Lincez 1903 xii. 346 suggests the ficus [ndica. 
But in the Mon. d. Lincet 1908 xix. 20 he is less explicit. F. M. J. Lagrange in the 
Revue Biblique internationale Nouvelle Série 1907 iv. 342: ‘un arbre..., semblable 4 une 
plante grasse 4 trois panaches.’ A. J. Reinach in the Rev. Arch. 1908 ii. 280 f.: ‘Varbre— 
une sorte de palmier,’ ‘le palmier funéraire.’ F. von Duhn in the A7chzv f. Rel, 1909 xii. 
180: ‘ Palme.’ 

5 R. Paribeni in the A/on. d. Lincez 1908 xix. 15 ff. fig. 3. M. Meurer ‘Zu den 
Sarkophagen von Klazomenai’ in the Jahré. d. hats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1900 xvii. 65— 
68 with figs. 1—3 argues that the trapezoidal, as distinct from the rectangular, sarcophag? 
of Klazomenai were designed to be set up on end uncovered and so hold the body upright, 
probably during the funeral ceremony,—a usage apparently derived from Egypt v2é 
Phoinike. 

8 R. Paribeni in the Mow. d. Linced 1908 xix. 19f. F. von Duhn in the Archiv f. Rel. 


Eon The double axe in relation 


Certain traits common to the two long sides of the sarcophagus 
suggest that the scenes of axe-cult are intimately related to the 
offerings made at this young man’s tomb. The tagged garments 
worn by the priestesses of the double axe, by the ministrants at 
the tomb, and by the dead man himself have been recognised by 
Paribeni? as hairy sackcloth, originally made of animals’ skins and 
still retaining a sort of tail: such a garb is presumably funeral in 
character. Again, three of the axe-worshippers and two of the tomb- 
ministrants are decked with red scarves or streamers, to which also 
we should attach some sepulchral significance”. It may therefore be 
surmised that the magic rites of revival performed before the double 
axes of the sky-god and the earth-goddess were believed to ensure 
the continued vitality or resurrection of the dead. Nay more, it is 
conceivable that the young man buried in this princely tomb was 
regarded as himself an incarnation of the sky-god. Was not Zeus 
said to have perished as a prince in Crete*? On this showing the 
Cretan prince was one of many who in their time played the part of 
Dionysos or Zagreus, the reborn Zeus*. And here, forestalling for a 
moment the results of a later section®, we must note the curious 
parallelism of the Cretan and the Tenedian axe-cults® :— 


HAGIA TRIADA. TENEDOS. 
Worship of a double axe erect on a | Worship of a double axe erect on a 
stepped base. stepped base’. 
“Worship of two double axes. Worship of two double axes®. 
Kratér set between double axes. Amphora attached to double axe®. 
Sacrifice of a bull in the cult of an | Sacrifice of a bull-calf in the cult of 
axe-god. Dionysos Anthroporrhatstes, pro- 
bably an axe-god4. 





But, if the youth buried in the sarcophagus actually posed as Dionysos 
or Zagreus, we should look to find him treated as the consort of the 
great ‘Minoan’ goddess Rhea”. Was this the case? An answer is 
perhaps to be sought in the designs of the two remaining panels. 


1909 xii. 179 f. rather fancifully conjectures that the custom of crouched burial led to the 
dead being conceived as of smaller dimensions than the living. E. Petersen in the /ahré. 
da. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1909 xxiv. 162 thinks that this is no mummified mortal, but a 
young god resembling Dionysos a\\qv and swathed because phallic. 

1 R. Paribeni in the Jon. d. Lincei 1908 xix. 22 ff. 

2 Supra i. 58 n. 2. To the references there given add A. Sonny ‘ Rote Farbe im 
Totenkult’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1906 ix. 525—529. 

8 Supra 1. 1570. 3,045, /003\n. 2. 

4 Supra i. 398 f., 647. Hagia Triada is about 114 miles (in a direct line) from the 
Idaean Cave. j 


5 Infra § 3 (c) i (0). 6 Supra i. 660. 
7 Infra § 3 (c) i (0). ® Infra 3 (c) i (0), cp. § 3 (c) i (u)- 
® Infra § 3 (c) i (0). 10 Supra i. 469 n. 4, 659, 711. 


) 
1 Supra i. 659. 12 Supra i. 649 N. 7. 


to tree- or plant-forms cing 


One of the short sides (pl. xxvii, c) represents a pair of horses, 
blue and yellow on a white ground, drawing a two-wheeled chariot, in 
which rides a couple of white-skinned women. Their robes are pink 
bordered with blue, and blue bordered with yellow and white. The 
four red reins are apparently held by the woman nearest the spec- 
tator: she has two in her left hand and two in her right, which 
encircles her companion. We have no reason to think that these 
are goddesses! or even priestesses?. More probably they are just 
ladies belonging to the princely court—the queen, let us suppose, 
and her charioteer. 

The other short side (pl. xxvii,@) shows a group roughly similar in 
appearance but widely different in meaning. A two-wheeled chariot 
on a red ground is drawn by a pair of griffins with canine rather 
than leonine bodies, variegated wings, and high plumed crests. In it 
ride two female figures, of whom the nearer one in a blue robe 
bordered with yellow and white holds the reins round her more 
gorgeously dressed companion. In the field above the griffins hovers 
a bird, which has been compared with a hoopoe? and even with a 
sparrow-hawk‘. But its short beak, yellow-brown, blue, and white 
feathers, black marking, and erectile crest proclaim it to be a some- 
what glorified jay’. This bird, the corvus glandarius of Linnaeus, the 
garrulus glandarius of later ornithologists, gets its modern scientific 
name from the fact that ‘the acorn is its favourite food®’ But the 
ancients were mainly impressed by its bright colouring and its 
talkative tongue. The former trait made it comparable with the 
woodpecker: the Romans called the one fzca, the other pzcus’; and, 


1 Cp. E. Petersen in the Jahré. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 190g xxiv. 168 ff. 

2 A.J. Reinach in the Rev. Arch. 1908 ii. 287. 

3 R. Paribeni in the Aon. ad. Lincei 1908 xix. 61: ‘Non esiste nell’ avifauna medi- 
terranea un uccello di quella forma e di quei colori: |’ upupa, alla quale si potrebbe 
pensare, ha il becco lungo, e drizza il suo pennacchio, ma non lo rovescia in avanti, come 
fa il nostro uccello, e come avviene nel cacatua e in qualche altro uccello esotico.’ But it 
must be remembered that the young hoopoe develops its crest before its beak (R. Lydekker 
The Royal Natural History London 1895 iv. 58). 

4 F. M. J. Lagrange in the Revue Bibligue internationale Nouvelle Série 1907 iv. 339 
would recognise ‘ un épervier’! 

° I am indebted for this suggestion to my wife. A good coloured plate of the jay is 
given by J. L. Bonhote Azrds of Britain London 1907 p. 156 ff. pl. 47. 

6 R. Lydekker Wild Life of the World London s.a. i. 108 with col. pl., cp. zd. The 
Royal Natural History London 1894—95 iii. 319 f. with fig., C. Swainson Zhe Folk Lore 
and Provincial Names of British Birds London 1886 p. 75. Hence the Italian name 
ghiandaia, and the German LZichel-hiher. Aristot. hist. an. g. 13. 615 22 f. 6rav 6’ 
broNrwow ai Baddavot, dwoKxpirrovca Tameverat (sc. 7) KiTTA). 

7 The relation of both words to fzzgo, motkidos, etc. is doubtful (Walde Laz. etym. 
Worterb.“ p. 580). So is that of our jay, French geaz (in Picardy gaz), Spanish gayo, gaya, 
Portuguese gazo to the adjective gay (G. Korting Lateinisch-romanisches Worterbuch* 
Paderborn rgot p. 187). 


524 The double axe in relation 


if the Cretan Zeus took shape as a woodpecker (P#os)', the Cretan 
Dionysos very possibly figured as a jay. The latter trait brought it 
into the company of ravens? and other garrulous birds’: in this 
capacity too it was sacred to Dionysos‘. We may, therefore, fairly 
conjecture that the jay here represented denotes the soul of the 
youth who in his lifetime had played the Dionysiac part. In the 
earth-coloured goddess with a plumed head-dress, towards whom 
the jay with a characteristic® flap of its wings is flying, we can 
recognise the Cretan Rhea® She, like the Nemeseis of Smyrna’, 
stands erect in a griffin-drawn car. In short, it seems probable that 
this panel, which formed the head-end of the sarcophagus*, marks the 
reunion of the dead man with his divine consort in the other world. 

The sarcophagus of Hagia Triada does not stand alone. Several 
of its motives are repeated on a painted earthenware /érnax found 
by J. H. Marshall at Palazkastro, thirteen miles north-east of Praisos 
and eight miles north of Zakro, in eastern Crete®. Its two long sides 
are divided each into a couple of square panels. Those of one side 
show (a) a fish, perhaps meant for a dolphin, upside down with two 
stars and a rosette in the field; (0) a bird of uncertain species” with 
high curled wings and spread tail. The panels of the other side 
(fig. 393) are more elaborately decorated. One of them (c) depicts 
a large lily-plant with three flowers. Those to right and left have 
their stamen-tips shaped like double axes. That in the centre 
appears, on closer inspection, to be not a flower at all, but an 
arrangement of cult-objects simulating a flower. Instead of a stalk 
there is a slender column with base, capital, and adacus complete. 
It supports, not a three-petalled lily, but a double axe rising froma 
stepped base and flanked by a pair of pillars”. The remaining panel 


1 Supra i. 158 n. 2, 237 n. I. 2 Pers. sat. prol. 13. 

3 See D’Arcy W. Thompson 4 Glossary of Greek Birds Oxford 1895 pp. 39, 85- 

+ Cornut. ¢heol. 30 p. 61, 22 f. Lang kal ri Kittay 6é ws Nddov Gpveov Kabepovow aiTw 
(sc. T@ Arovdcw). 

5 R. Lydekker Zhe Royal Natural History London 1894—95 iii. 320. 

§ I cannot subscribe to the é/zarre contention of R. Paribeni in the Aon. d. Lincet 
1908 xix. 6of. and F. von Duhn in the Archiv f. Rel. 1gog -xii. 183 f. that the pale 
personage is the dead man accompanied by his soul-bird! A. J. Reinach in the Rev. 
Arch. 1908 ii. 285 f. rightly protests. 

Supra i. 270 fig. 197- 

E. Petersen in the Jahr. d. hats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1909 xxiv. 168. 

Published by R. C. Bosanquet in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. tgot—1902 viii. 297 ff. 
pls. 18 (=my fig. 393) and 19, G. Karo in G. Maraghiannis Azteguités Crétoises Deuxieéme 
Série Candie s. a. p. xii pl. 38. 

10 Tt appears to belong to the order avseves, and may be intended for a duck, goose, 
or swan. il Supra Pp. 520 NA. 

12, R. C. Bosanquet in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901—1902 viii. 299 speaks of these 
as ‘a pair of “sacred horns.” ’ We should, however, distinguish these cigar-shaped pillars 
from the horns of the adjacent panel. 


fi 
8 
9 


to tree- or plant-forms 525 


(d) exhibits a griffin with wings like those of the bird on the opposite 
side. In the field is a lily-flower before it, a star above it, and, higher 
up, two pairs of ritual horns! resting on a horizontal line. The 
ornamentation of the lid includes a couple of stars; that of the ends, 
a pair of horns with a bud springing from between them. 

We are not in a position to clear up the meaning of all this 
symbolism. But we can at least explain some parts of it with more 
or less probability. The double axe set upright on a stepped base 
between a pair of pillars is again comparable with the Tenedian 


AIK IN 
@) KS 
1 ZY 


COC C 


ee 





Fig. 393- 


coin-type® and suggestive of the ‘Minoan’ sky-god*. Its intimate 
connexion with the lily recalls the Mycenaean ring, on which a 
double axe descends from heaven towards a goddess decked with 
lilies’, presumably Rhea®. The axe combined with the lily thus 
betokens the life-giving union of the sky-god with the earth-goddess, 
and is analogous to the scene of the leafy axes on the sarcophagus 
from Hagia Triada. \Whether the griffin can be regarded as an 
allusion to the griffin-drawn goddess is more doubtful. 


1 Cp. the stucco horns found in house B at Palatkastro (R. C. Bosanquet in the Ann. 
« Brit. Sch. Ath. 1go01—1902 viii. 314 fig. 27). 

2 Infra § 3 (c) i (0). 3 Supra p. 522. 

4 Supra p. 47 fig. 18. 5 Supra p. 515. 


526 The double axe in relation 


A superb jar, found by R. B. Seager on the island of Pseira in 





Fig. 394- 
north-eastern Crete (fig. 394), dates from the last stage of the period 


1 R. B. Seager Axcavations on the island of Psetra, Crete (University of Pennsylvania: 


to tree- or plant-forms §27 


known as ‘Late Minoan i’ (¢c. 1500 B.C.) and again illustrates the 
combination of double axe and lily. Round its rim is a series of 
axes with knobbed tops; round its base, a simplified axe-pattern ; 
beneath its handles, other axe-forms. The main frieze, on its 
shoulder, has double axes of the knobbed variety alternating with 
bulls’ heads. Each axe is erect on a square base. Each bull’s head 
between its horns bears another double axe, the stem of which is 
shaped like an open lily. And the space between axes and bulls’ 
heads is filled by olive-sprays. A second large jar of the ‘Late 


a 
; == an eee 
ry 


! y 7 





Fig. 395. Fig. 396. Fig. 397. 


Minoan I’ age, obtained by Seager on the neighbouring island of 
Mochlos?, treats the floral stem of the axe in a freakish human 
fashion (fig. 395)? that brings to mind the quaintest flower-fays of 
Mr Arthur Rackham. 

Vase-fragments of late ‘Minoan’ style, found by Sir Arthur 
Evans in a superficial layer of deposit covering the north-west 
building at Knossos, show the double axe rising from a leafy shaft 
between the sacred horns*. On the example here reproduced (fig. 396) 
this design fills two compartments, the other two being occupied by 


The Museum: Anthropological Publications iii. 1) Philadelphia 1910 p. 26 f. pl. 7 
(=my fig. 394). 

1 R. B. Seager ‘ Excavations at Mochlos’ in the Am. Journ. Arch. 1909 xiii. 299 with 
fig. 19, G. Karo in G. Maraghiannis Aztiguttés Crétoises Deuxieme Série Candie s.a. 
p. vali pl. 13; 2: 

2 G. B. G[ordon] ‘The Double Axe and some other Symbols’ in University of 
Pennsylvania: The Museum Journal 1916 vii. 48 fig. 38 (=my fig. 395). 

3 Sir A. J. Evans in the Anum. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1902—1903 ix. 114 f. fig. 71 (=my 
fig. 396). 


528 The double axe in relation 


a fish and a scroll derived from three Triton-shells treated as ten- 
tacles of an argonaut. Again, a hieroglyphic sign, found by the 
same explorer on a clay sealing from the Cnossian palace, represents 
a tree—apparently a cypress—serving as the handle of a double 
axe (fig. 397)’. 

A certain analogy with the foregoing examples of ‘Minoan’ 
religious art is afforded by an amulet, which 
forms the central pendant of an Etruscan 
gold necklace (fig. 398). It consists of a 
neolithic arrow-head of flint imbedded in the 
stem of a golden lily*, on which rests a disk 
enclosing a decorative double axe (?). Since 
flint arrow-heads, no less than flint axes, were 
held to be thunderbolts‘, it is likely enough 
that this amulet® too was believed to com- 
bine the virtues of the sky-god and the earth- 
goddess. 





(y) The double axe in relation to columns or pillars. 


Thirdly, the double axe had a religious significance for the 
‘Minoan’ age, when it was stuck into the columns of a sacred build- 
ing or cave. Fragments of painted plaster from the palace at Knossos‘ 
show portions of a sanctuary with a row of columns, which, from their 
shape and colour, are obviously meant to represent the wooden sup- 
ports usual in the architecture of the period. Between each pair of 
columns and also along the top of their entablature are set large 
ritual horns. Into the upper part of the shaft, and into the upper part 
of the echznus, of every column is driven from opposite sides a couple 
of double axes, which, like the horns, are painted white. Finally, 


1 Sir A. J. Evans Scripta Minoa Oxford 1909 i. 195 no. 36, ¢ (=my fig. 397) pl. 3, 
P. 7oa. 

2 I. Cartailhac La France préhistorique Paris 1889 p. 6 fig. 3 (=my fig. 398). This 
appears to be the pendant, in the Campana collection, very inadequately described and 
figured by E. Braun in the on. Ann.e Bull. d. Inst. p. 54 pl. 10. 

3 The arrow-head itself is lily-shaped, the tang forming the central spike of an inverted 
flower. 

4 See e.g. Sir J. Evans The Ancient Stone Implements of Great Britain? London 1897 
p- 362 ff. 

> Other examples of flint arrow-heads set in gold, silver, or bronze and worn as amulets 
by the ancient Etruscans etc. are given in C, Blinkenberg Zhe Thunderweapon in Religion 
and Folklore Cambridge 1911 p. 28f. fig. 14 f., p. 10g. 

6 Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1903—1904 x. 40 ff., fig. 14, pl. 2 


(=my fig. 39,). 


to columns or pillars 529 


below the sacred edifice is a decorative band of rosettes—a motive, 
be it remembered, readily derivable from the Egyptian lotus. The 
stamens of these rosettes, shaped like double axes, recall the axe- 





Fig. 399. 


stamens of the lily-plant on the sarcophagus from Palatkastro*. The 
whole design (fig. 399) makes it clear that double axes of metal were 
imbedded in the wooden columns of ‘Minoan’ shrines’. 


1 A. Riegl Sti/fragen Berlin 1893 p. 52 ff., O. Montelius Die dlteren Kulturperioden 
im Orient und in Europa Stockholm 1903 i. 78f. fig. 303, cp. W. H. Goodyear Zhe 
Grammar of the Lotus London 1891 p. 103. 

2 Supra p. 524. 

3M. Meurer ‘Form und Herkunft der mykenischen Saule’ in the Jahréd. d. hais. 
deutsch. arch. Inst, 1914 xxix. 14 ff. fig. 6 f. thinks that the white objects affixed to the 
columns are not axes at all, but knobs for hangings, and compares the white-glazed and 


Calg 34 


530. The double axe in relation 


Similarly small double axes of bronze (fig. 400)! were found in- 
serted in the stalactite pillars of the famous cave in Mount Dikte 
(fig. 401), D. G. Hogarth gives a graphic description of their 
discovery : 


‘By June 11th,’ he says®, ‘we had exhausted the Upper Grot and the Terrace, 
and seemed to be at the end of discoveries. I had always intended, however, to 
have the ¢a/ws in the Lower Grot searched before leaving the place, and on the 
12th put the men and women, now reduced to thirty in all, with petroleum candles 
on to the steep slope below the precipice. Various bronze objects were quickly 
brought to light, and some bits of gold appeared in the sieves. Meanwhile a few 





men were sent to search the various patches of earth, carried down by water and 
deposited in hollows in the lowest parts of the cavern, and they found these 
singularly productive. Where a thin crust of stalactite had formed over the mould 
and pebbles, it always was worth while to break through. While engaged on 
this work one of the men observed a bronze knife blade in a vertical slit of a 
stalactite pillar beside him, and, searching, soon found more blades and pins. 


painted plates of terra cotta found at Ashur in the palace of Ashur-nasir-pal iii (884— 
860 B.c.). He justly dismisses the notion that they are ‘ Phallusformen’ (!), but does not 
even mention the highly probable view of their discoverer, that they are double axes, 

1 From the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1899—19g00 vi. tog fig. 40 (size cerca 1: 4). 
D. G. Hogarth zd. p. 108 f. says: ‘Remains of 18 undoubted double axes were recovered, 
all found in the Lower Grot, and in almost every case zz sz¢w in the stalactite niches. 
Two retained their shafts, and many bronze pins, found in the same region, had doubtless 
been attached to other axes. Two specimens are of almost pure copper (Nos. 3, 5). The 
largest of all the axe heads, a perfect example 280 millimetres long (No. 2), found in a 
niche of a small lateral hall near the head of the subterranean pool, shows lines, drawn 
with a fine tool, crossing the blades obliquely.’ Ete. 

2 Infra Append. B Crete. Fig. 401 is reduced from D. G, Hogarth’s plan in the 
Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1899—1900 vi pl. 8. 

3 Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1899—1900 vi. 100f. 


to columns or pillars 531 


I immediately set others, especially women and boys, to examine the pillars 
systematically, and found the vertical crevices so productive that, leaving only a 
small gang to finish the upper earth, I concentrated all hands in the lowest depths. 
Some of the chinks contained as many as ten bronze objects apiece—blades, 
fibulae and an occasional votive double axe. These stood up edgeways in the 
slits and in many cases could not be extracted without smashing the stalactite, 
which had almost closed over them. How many more there may not be com- 
pletely hidden in the pillars I cannot say, but I do not think we left an accessible 


MICAS ASS HT My 
TINS Sa TM 
TSN a oe | Ny WN WIT MN MNh1%5 
AAW, HR ye ene y ‘ 


MWS 


Sh \W: 
Oss / NSS 





niche unexamined. Nor did we leave any part of the pebbly mud at the water’s 
edge unwashed. Thence we obtained over a dozen bronze statuettes, and half a 
dozen engraved gems, beside handfuls of common rings, pins, and blades, perhaps 
sucked by floods out of the stalactite niches. In hope of the reward, which I gave 
for the better objects, and in the excitement of so curious a search, which, in their 
earlier illicit digging, it had not occurred to them to attempt, the villagers, both 
men and women, worked with frantic energy, clinging singly to the pillars high 
above the subterranean lake, or grouping half a dozen flaring lights over a pro- 
ductive patch of mud at the water’s edge. It was a grotesque sight, without 


532. The double axe in relation 


precedent in an archaeologist’s experience. But beyond a certain point the 
niches proved empty, and the icy water too deep to be dredged, and by the 
evening of the 14th there was no more to be done.’ 


The existence of wooden and stalactite columns into which axes 
were, so to speak, hafted throws light on another group of ‘Minoan’ 
monuments. Already in 1900 Sir A. J. Evans had drawn attention 
to two small chambers in the palace at Knossos, each of which 
contains a central pillar formed of four square gypsum blocks and 


Fig. 403. 





Fig. 402. 


repeatedly engraved with the sign of the double axe (fig. 402). 
Commenting with great acumen on that signature he had said: 


‘There can, I venture to think, be little doubt that these chambers are shrines, 
probably belonging to the oldest part of the building, and the pillars thus marked 
with the sign of the God are in fact his aniconic images... It will be shown from 
a variety of evidence that the most typical form of the Mycenaean sacred pillar 
is represented as actually performing a structural function, and is in fact a “Pillar 
of the House”.””’ 


1 Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit, Sch. Ath. 1899—1900 vi. 32—34 fig. 6. Figs. 402 
and 403 are from photographs taken by me in r1gor. The latter shows an interesting 
block, in the palace wall, with a trident incised on the top of a double axe (‘ Middle 
Minoan iii’: Sir A. J. Evans zd. 1903—1904 x. 28). 

2 Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 111 fig. 5. 





to columns or pillars 533 


Subsequent discoveries strengthened this conjecture. In 1914 
Sir Arthur was able to write: 


‘An interesting parallel, highly illuminating as to the cult connected with 
these pillars, was supplied by a small house dating from the last Middle Minoan 
Period excavated on the south-east borders of the Palace. Here in a small 
chamber of fine ashlar masonry..., was a central pillar, the upper block of which 
was exceptionally marked with the double-axe sign. At the foot of the pillar on 
the north side, moreover, was a small limestone base of stepped pyramidal form, 
with a socket above, corresponding with the stands of the sacred Double Axes 
as seen on the Hagia Triada sarcophagus... The pillar cult is here clearly 
brought into connexion with the divinity of the Double Axes—the great Minoan 
Goddess... In the case of many of the smaller pillar-rooms with a single pillar— 
such as those of the South-East House and Royal Villa at Knossos, that of the 
house on the hill of Gypsades, and those in the two small rooms at Phylakopi— 
there is no obvious structural reason for such a central support. Yet it is probable 
that in all cases these stone pillars served a constructive purpose, and their 
presence, even in small chambers easily spanned by beams, is accounted for in 
the most natural manner by the assumption that they acted as supports of the 
wooden columns of a chamber above, as seems to have been certainly the case 
with pillars of the sanctuary quarter in the Knossian Palace... Of the sanctity of 
such wooden columns as “Pillars of the House” there is abundant evidence 
among the representations on Minoan and Mycenaean works of art!’ 


It will be observed that, where Sir Arthur spoke formerly of a 
‘God,’ he speaks now of a ‘Goddess.’ In my own opinion the double 
axe belongs primarily to the sky-god, secondarily to the earth- 
goddess associated with him, while the tree, or column, or pillar, 
belongs primarily to the earth-goddess, secondarily to the sky-god 
associated with her. The combination of axe and tree, axe and 
column, axe and pillar, implies the union of both? I take it, then, 
that the double axe hafted into a tree, or affixed to a wooden column, 
or incised on a stone pillar, is sign and symbol of the god, whereas 


1 Sir A. J. Evans in Archaeologia 1914 lxv. 68 f. 

2 We should perhaps compare the tall beam pierced by an iron nail and erected in 
honour of Thor (?) by the Lapps of Finmark (supra p. 423 n. 3), and also the high-seat 
pillars of the old Norsemen with their sacred nails (sufra p. 57 n. 1). With regard to the 
latter Miss N. Kershaw has kindly sent me (Nov. 9, 1920) the following references : 
Eyrbyggia Saga 4 ‘Thorolfr Mostrarskegg...sailed along the south coast [of Iceland] 
westward past Reykjanes... Thorolfr threw overboard his high-seat pillars, which had 
been standing in the temple. The image of Thor was carved on one of them. He declared 
his intention of making his home in Iceland at the spot where Thor brought them ashore. 
There he had a temple erected. It was a big building. There was a door in the side-wall 
near one end. Inside stood the high-seat pillars, and there were pegs in them which were 
called vegin-naglar*’ [*naglar, ‘pegs.’ The exact,meaning of vegzz is uncertain. The 
word is used of the gods in the Zdda poems.], Landnamatok 1.6, 1. 7 f., 4.5, Vatnsdela 
Saga 15. See further G. Vigfusson—F. York Powell Corpus Poeticum Boreale Oxford 
1883 i. 403, 406, ii. 686, E. Mogk in the Grundriss der germanischen Philologie* Ueraus- 
gegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1900 iii. 364, 7d. in Hoops Reallex. il. 313, H. Falk 70. 

ii. 538 f. 


534 The double axe in relation to horns 








ie) i 


100 50 
ae | | ! | [et) hart oe eee | METRE 


Fig. 404. 


The double axe in relation to horns 535 


the tree, or column, or pillar, betokens the presence of the goddess— 
a view supported by the later emergence of the axe-bearing god! 
on the one hand and the pillar-shaped goddess or ‘Caryatid” on 
the other. 


(6) The double axe in relation to horns. 


Fourthly, ‘Minoan’ religion brought the double axe into con- 
nexion with sacred horns. Of this we have already seen some 
examples*; and many more might be cited. 

Fragments of pottery from Knossos show the double axe, in one 
case set between horns, in a second placed before a shrine*. An 
actual shrine of small size (only 14m. square) was found by Sir 
A. J. Evans in the Cnossian palace®. It was referable to the period 
of partial re-occupation (‘Late Minoan iii’), and it was arranged as 
follows (fig. 404)°. On the floor of stamped clay were bowls and 
vases. A raised dais or step had a plaster tripod fixed into its pebbly 
surface, on which stood also some cups and small jugs. A higher 
step with a pebbled floor and a plastered front had attached to it 
two pairs of horns made of white-coloured stucco with a clay core. 
Leaning against one of them was a miniature double axe of steatite 
with duplicated blades (fig. 405)’. And each 
pair of horns had a central socket, which in 
‘all probability was meant to receive the shaft 
of a double axe. On either side of these horned 
sockets stood painted terra-cotta figures of 
votaries and deities. To the left of the left- 
hand pair of horns was a male votary on a 
small flat base: he was wearing a loin-cloth 
and some sort of tunic laced behind, while he held out a dove 
as an oblation (fig. 406 a)*. To the right of the same horns was a 
goddess on a high cylindrical base: she had long hair falling 
down her back and over her shoulders; her head was turned 
towards the horns, and her hands were curved up over her breasts 





Fig. 405. 


1 Infra § 3 (c) i (e). 

2 See now T. Homolle ‘ L’origine des Caryatides’ in the Rev. Arch. 1917 i. 1—67 
with six figs. and pl. 4 f. 

3 Supra pp. 517 f., 524 f., 528 f. 

4 D. Mackenzie in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1903 xxili. 203. 

> Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901—1902 viii. 95—102 with figs. 
Doma 
6 Jd. i. p. 97 fig. 55 (redrawn in my fig. 404). 

7 Td. ib. p. 101 fig. 57 (“slightly enlarged ’)=my fig. 405. 

8 G. Maraghiannis Antiguités Crétoises Troisitme Série Candie s.a. pl. 50 (part of 
which=my fig. 406). 


536 The double axe in relation to horns 


(fig. 406 4)". To the left of the right-hand pair of horns was a female 
votary, whose type (a half-sitting posture) and technique (punctures 
and incisions with white gypsum filling) were alike primitive. To the 
right of these horns were two goddesses. One of them, except for the 
fact that she had a plant design painted on her back, closely re- 
sembled the goddess already described. The other rose from a higher 
cylindrical base. She wore necklaces, armlets, and signets on her 





Fig. 406. 


wrists. She raised both hands, one palm outwards, the other in pro- 
file, and each with a dark band drawn across it. Her breast was 
painted with a pair of wings?; and her body ended in a pattern 
perhaps meant to recall the spread tail of a bird. On her head rested 
a dove (fig. 406)’. It is clear that the little sanctuary thus furnished 


SAD 

2 So at least I have ventured to suggest (J. E. Harrison in the 7vansactions of the 
Third International Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 156 n. 1). 

3 G. Maraghiannis /oc. c7t. 


The double axe in relation to horns 537 


was ¢. 1400—c. 1200 B.C. used for oblations to two double axes, beside 
each of which was placed a goddess, or a pair of goddesses, and a 
















































i. By 


iN er 
en ( if 


Fig. 409. 


single devotee. The duplication of the double axe, as in the cases of 
Hagia Triada and Tenedos?, suggests the joint cult of a god and 
a goddess. 


1 Supra p. 521. 2 Supra p. 522, infra § 3 (c) i (&) and (0). 


538 The double axe in relation to horns 


An earlier! shrine of somewhat similar character was discovered 
by Miss H. A. Boyd, now Mrs Boyd-Hawes, at Gournza in eastern 
Crete”. Here too was a low earthen tripod thinly coated with plaster, 
‘four cultus vases bearing symbols of Minoan worship, the disk, 
consecrated horns and serpent, a terra-cotta female idol entwined 
with a snake, two heads of the same type as the idol, several small 
clay doves and serpents’ heads, all of coarse terra cotta, and a frag- 
ment of a pithos, on which a double-ax and disk are modeled 
in relief*’ 

The horns that appear so frequently in connexion with the double 
axe are in all probability bovine. An agate intaglio from Knossos, 
belonging to the ‘Late Minoan’ period, shows a double axe rising 
between the curved horns of a bull’s head (fig. 407)* A lentoid 
sardonyx from the Argive Heraion, now in the Schliemann collec- 
tion at Berlin, is engraved with a similar design (fig. 408)*. In the 
fourth shaft-grave at Mykenai were found about fifty-six specimens 
of bull’s head-and-axe cut out of gold plate; some of these had a 
double axe of normal shape (fig. 409 a, 0)°; others had its blades 
duplicated (fig. 409 c,d)". Finally, a Mycenaean sradér from Salamis 
in Kypros (Ezkomz), preserved in the British Museum’, is decorated 


1 Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901—1902 viii. 105 says ‘ of still later 
date,’ but 7. 1902—1903 ix. 84 n. 1 ‘perhaps contemporary (as most of the remains at 
Gournia) with the First Period of the Later Palace at Knossos.’ See also R. M. Dawkins 
26. 1903—I904 X. 195. 

2 H. A. Boyd-Hawes, B. E. Williams, R. B. Seager, and E. H. Hall Gournia, 
Vasiliki and other prehistoric sites on the Isthmus of Hierapetra, Crete Philadelphia 1908. 

3 H. A. Boyd in the Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution for 1903—1904 Washington 1905 p. 570. See also C. H. & H. Hawes Crete 
the Forerunner of Greece London—New York 1909 pp. 93, 97 f., H. R. Hall “ge@an 
Archeology London 1915 p. 155 fig. 55, D. A. Mackenzie Myths of Crete & Pre- 
flellenic Europfe London s. a. p. 261 f. 

4 Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1902—1903 ix. 114 fig. 70 (=my 
fig. 407) completed and enlarged to a scale of #. 

5 H. Schliemann JZycen@ London 1878 p. 362 fig. 541 (=my fig. 408), Furtwangler 
Ant. Gemmen ipl. 2, 42, ii. 3. The handle of the axe here points upwards, not down- 
wards ; and the device is flanked by two objects of doubtful character, perhaps sacred 
knots (see P. Wolters ‘Faden und Knoten als Amulett’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1905 Vill. 
(Beiheft) 1 ff, F. W. von Bissing ‘Agyptische Knotenamulette’ 2d. 1905 viii. 23 ff., 
Frazer Golden Bough® : Taboo pp. 293—317 (‘ Knots and Rings tabooed’), I. Scheftelowitz 
Das Schlingen- und Netzmotiv im Glauben und Brauch der Volker Giessen 1912 pp. 1—64, 
C. Bonner ‘The Sacred Bond’ in the Zvansactions of the American Philological Associa- 
tion 1913 xliv. 233—245). 

6 H. Schliemann AZycene London 1878 p. 218 figs. 329, 330 (=my fig. 409 a, 4), 
C. Schuchhardt Schiemann’s Excavations trans. E. Sellers London 1891 p. 249 fig. 249. 
It is noteworthy that in this fourth grave was found a fringed knot of alabaster (Schliemann 
op. cit p. 242 fig. 352, Schuchhardt of. ct. p. 252 fig. 253). 

7 Milani Stud. e mat. di arch. e num. t899—10901 i. 198 figs. 33, 34 (=my fig. 409¢, @). 

8 Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases i. 2. 81 f. no. C 401 fig. 138, A. S. Murray—A. H. Smith— 
H. B. Walters Zxcavations itn Cyprus London 1goo p. 38 f. fig. 67 no. 844. 


The double axe in relation to horns 539 


with ducranza and ritual horns: both alike have a double axe set 
upon them (fig. 410)!, and are plainly felt to be alternatives of like 
significance. . 

But what exactly did they signify? The old notion? that a single 
bucranitum-and-axe denoted the sacrifice of an ox, and that a mul- 
tiplicity of such symbols commemorated a hecatomb, will not do. 
The prominent position accorded to the axe, the duplication of its 
blades, the careful propping of its haft,imply that this was nocommon- 
place tool, but a divine weapon. Are we then to conclude that the 
axe stands for the sky-god, and the ox-head for the sacrifice offered 
to him? The explanation is still inadequate; for why should an ox 
in particular be sacrificed to an axe or an axe-bearing god? and why 





Fig. 410. 


should the axe be set up between the ox-horns? To grasp the real 
meaning of this combination we must bear in mind (a) that the bull 
was the theanthropic animal of the Cretan Zeus, torn asunder in his 
service® and buried in his name‘; (4) that ritual horns appear to have 
originated in the shrine of a buried bull, regarded as a centre or 


1 The design is completed by Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 107 
fig. 3 (=my fig. 410), S. Reinach in LZ’ Anthropologie 1902 xiii. 25 fig. 19, J. Déchelette 
Manuel d’archéologie préhistorique Paris 1910 ii. 1. 480 fig. 204, 3- 

2 E.g. A. Milchhofer Die Anfinge der Kunst in Griechenland Leipzig 1883 p. 116f. 
(‘vielleicht lediglich mit Beziehung auf die Opferhandlung’), Ohnefalsch- Richter Ky pros 
pp. 238 (‘a symbol of sacrifice’), 240, Ch. Tsountas—J. I. Manatt Ze AZycenaean Age 
London 1897 p. 103 (‘they are symbols of sacrifice offered to the dead, in conformity 
with the well-known ancient custom of offering to gods and heroes metal or terra-cotta 
simulacra of real victims’), W. H. D. Rouse Greek Votive Offerings Cambridge 1902 
p- 301 (‘perhaps representing sacrifice to the dead’). 

3 Supra i. 660 ff. Supra p. 345. 


540 The double axe in relation to horns 


focus of lifet; and (¢) that the vital force of the divine beast was 
gathered into its horns, so that any object placed between them 
would be quickened to the uttermost. Was not this the right 
position for that dread weapon, which constituted the might of 
the Almighty? 

Bucrantum and double axe were for centuries associated in the 
populat mind. And the peculiar ‘Minoan’ combination of the two 
has left traces of itself over a wide area. L. Stephani published a 
pair of double axes (fig. 411) and eight ducranza (fig. 412) found in 
1873 on the site of Olbia in Sarmatia*. They are flat lead castings 
with unworked back, and were presumably affixed to some smooth 
surface, perhaps that of a wooden coffin’. The ducrania are adorned 
with fillets and grape-bunches, occasionally also with ivy-leaves. 


6 


- 


ses 
4 am i 


ee 
, = 
Me 
a 
be 
! 
=! 





Fig. 411. Fig. 412. 


Between the horns in every case rises a vertical stem, which is hardly 
to be explained as a mere tag due to the casting, but more probably 
should be regarded as a vestige of the double axe once installed in 
that position of importance. R. Wiinsch*® has recently noticed that 
the Museum at Stettin possesses a large number of leaden ducrania 
from Pantikapaion (Kerch): most of them have an oblong handle 
between the horns, which he would complete by means of sundry 
loose heads of double axes found with the dzcranza in question. 
Wiinsch conjectures that these were amulets derived from the double 
axe of the ancient Cretan religion. Again, Count Albert de La 


1 Supra i. 508 ff. 2 Supra i. 499 ff. 

3 L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1873 p. xxix, id. 1b. 1874 p. 32f. Atlas 
pl. 1, 18 (=my fig. 411) and 243; 15, 16, 17, 19 (=my fig. 412), 20, 21, 22, 23. 

4 See E. H. Minns Scythians and Greeks Cambridge 1913 p. 373 f. fig. 277- 

5 R. Wiinsch in the Archiv f. Rel. 1913 xvi. 632 f., Am. Journ. Arch. 1914 xviil. 227. 


The double axe in relation to horns 541 


Marmora!’ in 1840 described and figured a thin p/ague of lead in the 
Capuchin Museum at Palma, said to have come from the talayot of 
Son-Texeguet near Lluc-Major in Minorca (fig. 413). He supposed 
that it was of Phoenician or Carthaginian origin, and suggested, 
shrewdly enough, that it looked rather like the skin of an ox-head. 
The horns have degenerated into concentric circles like the eyes. 
And four small holes show that it was suspended as an amulet. A 
close parallel to it was published in 1892 by E. Cartailhac? from the 


Som 


Pa aR TT 


| TTT f| 
cH cA “SAW uu 


ATM emer PMN TS 










































































fe} ° 
° ° 
fp ee) 
io 6 
oo 
Fig. 413. Fig. 414. 


collection of M. Moragues (fig. 414)—another thin leaden JAlague 

apparently representing a conventionalised ducranzwm with a similar | 
treatment of the horns and eyes. 

The decadence of the ‘Minoan’ type can, however, be best seen 

in the old indigenous pottery of Apulia. In 1908* I drew attention 


1 Le Cte A. de La Marmora Voyage en Sardaigne Paris 1840 ii. 533 Atlas pl. 39, 4 
(=my fig. 413). 

2 E. Cartailhac Monuments primitifs des tles Baléares Toulouse 1892 p. 68 f. fig. 82 
(=my fig. 414 inverted), J. Déchelette Manuel d’archéologie préhistorigue Paris 1910 
ii. 13476. 

3 «The Cretan Axe-cult outside Crete’ in the Zransactéons of the Third International 
Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 188 f. figs. 6,7, 8, 9. 









542 The double axe in relation to horns 


to certain specimens of this ware! now in the British Museum?. 
They are flat bowls with a high handle shaped like a pair of bovine 
horns. It differs from the ordinary ausa lunata or Mondhenkel of 
North Italy and Central Europe, because it represents the forehead 
and eyes of the beast as well as the horns. It has also an additional 





Fig. 417. Fig. 418. 


feature of interest. Between the horns rises what I took to be a 
stylised form of the double axe (fig. 415). This double axe, if such 


‘ See the elaborate articles of M. Mayer ‘Ceramica dell’ Apulia preellenica i. La 
Messapia’ in the Rim. Mitth. 1897 xii. 201—252 figs. I—22 pl. ro, ‘ii. La Peucezia’ 
2b. 1899 xiv. 13—8o figs. r—20 pls, 2—5, ‘Die Keramik des vorgriechischen Apuliens 
iii. Daunia’ 2d. 1904 xix. 188—243 figs. 1—11 suppl. pl. 1, 276—316 figs. 14—17 suppl. 
pls. 2 and 3, ‘iv. Daunia (Fortsetzung) v. Tarent’ 2d. 1908 xxiii. 167—262 figs. I—9 
pls. 8 and g suppl. pls. t—ro. 

® Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases i. 2. 266f. nos. H 253 pl. 27, H 254 pl. 27, H 252 pl. 27. 
My figs. 415—418 are from photographs by the Museum photographer. H. B. Walters in 
the Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases i. 2. 264 assigns the ware to the period c. 7oo—500 B.C. 


The deity of the double axe 543 


it be’, tends to become vestigial (fig. 416), and sometimes disappears 
altogether (fig. 417). That we are on the right track in explaining 
these handles by a reference to ‘Minoan’ cult appears further from 
sundry vessels of similar fabric but different shape (fig. 418). Here 
we have a handle adorned with three cones grouped together in a 
manner suggestive of a lotus-bud. Before them stands a priestess 
with ear-rings, necklace, etc., who seems to be presenting the con- 
tents of this remarkable vase. Its body is painted with decorative 
bands, including a frieze of birds and a row of ritual horns quite in 
‘Minoan’ style. Further, the ‘hour-glass’ ornament, so characteristic 
of these local Apulian vases*, may well be viewed as a simple 
derivative of the double axe. It will be remembered that we have 
already come across literary evidence also of a ‘Minoan’ cult per- 
sisting into Hellenic times at Tarentum‘. 


(e) The deity of the double axe. 


Thus far we have seen that the double axe, whether hanging in 
mid air or hafted into a tree or affixed to a pillar or set up between 
horns, is at least intelligible if viewed as the sky-god’s weapon. 

That this sky-god was conceived in human form is not only 
a priori probable, but a posteriori certain. We have observed him 
as an armed deity descending from above on the gold signets ot 
Mykenai (fig. 18)° and Knossos (fig. 19)° and on the painted 
lérnax of Miletos (fig. 20)’. It is true, he was not actually holding 
his two-bladed weapon. But Sir A. J. Evans, @ propos of the double 
axe on the Mycenaean ring, very justly remarked: ‘It stands ina 
natural relation to the small figure of the warrior God to the left, 
and probably represents one of the cult forms under which he was 
worshipped®. Moreover, thanks to the kindness of a friend, | am 


1 M. Mayer in the Rom. AMitth. 1908 xxiii. 217: ‘Zwecklos wire es auch, an gewisse 
kretische Symbole, das Hornerpaar mit der Doppelaxt, hier erinnern zu wollen.’ Masner 
Samml. ant. Vasen u. Terracotten Wien p. 4 no. 38 pl. 1 mistook the whole arrangement 
for an idol with raised arms(!), and H. B. Walters Joc. c¢¢. p. 267 speaks of ‘a vertical 
projection ending in two discs, perhaps intended for a rude human head.’ It is, of course, 
quite conceivable that the double axe had become degraded (or exalted) into human 
features. 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases i. 2. 271 no. H 263 pl. 28, Zransactions of the Third Inter- 
national Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 189 fig. 9. Cp. M. Mayer 
in the Rém. Mitth. 1908 xxiii. 194 ff. no. 15 pl. 8, 4 and col. pl. 9, no. 16 suppl. pl. 1, 4, 
no. 17 suppl. pls. 1, 5, 3, 1, Brét. Mus. Cat. Vases i. 2, 270 f. no. H 262 pl. 28, 

3 E.g. Rim. Mitth. 1897 xii. 206 f. no. 5 fig. 2, 207 f. no. 6 fig. 3, 211 no. 14 fig. 7. 

+ Supra p. 29 ff. 

5 Supra pp. 47 ff. fig. 18, 514 ff. 6 Supra p. 49 fig. 19. 

7 Supra p. 49f. fig. 20. 

8 Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ, Hell, Stud. 1got xxi. 108. 


544 The deity of the double axe 


enabled here to publish (fig. 419)! a lenticular gem of onyx-marble, 
probably from Melos, now in his possession. It shows a bearded 
god with wings on his shoulders? and winglets on his heels, who is 





Fig. 419. 


rushing through the air with a double axe in his hand. We can 
hardly be wrong in identifying him as the ‘Minoan’ sky-god in his ~ 
stormy aspect. 

It would seem, then, that, just as various nations of antiquity 
worshipped axe® or spear* or sword’ meaning thereby to extol the 


1 Fig. 419 is drawn from an impression, to the scale of #. Fig. 419 @ is a sketch of 
the gem itself. 

2 In accordance with a well-known convention of archaic art (¢.g. Furtwangler Vasen- 
samml. Berlin i. 38 no. 301, E. Gerhard in Arch. Zezt. 1854 xii. 180 ff. pl. 61 = Reinach 
kRép. Vases i. 380, 4, F. Studniczka in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1751 f. fig. 7), which aptly 
illustrates E. Loewy’s law of memory-pictures, the wings, seen in their greatest extension, 
‘are simply superposed on the figure without organic connexion. 

3 The Egyptian term for ‘god,’ ‘spirit,’ ‘supernatural power’ is 7ze¢ev—a word of 
very uncertain origin. The hieroglyph that is used both as the determinative of this word 


| 
and also as an ideograph is }: Thus 1 or ia denotes ‘ god,’ and a or | or 7] 
| 


| 
or T11 | ‘gods.’ Birch, Brugsch, Budge and other competent Egyptologists hold that 1 
| 


represents an axe-head let into and fastened in a long wooden handle (E. A. Wallis Budge 
The Gods of the Egyptians London 1904 i. 63 ff. and A. Wiedemann in J. Hastings 
Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics Edinburgh 1913 vi. 275. See also F. Legge in the 
Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archeology 1899 xxi. 310 f., A. Mosso The Dawn of 
Mediterranean Civilisation London 1g1o p. 145 fig. 83). A dissentient is F. Ll. Griffith 
A Collection of Hieroglyphs London 1898 p. 46 col. pls. 3, 26 (=my fig. 421), 8, 114 
(=my fig. 420), who says: ‘A roll of yellow cloth (for bandaging ?), the lower part bound 
or laced over, the upper end appearing as a flap at the top, probably for unwinding... In 
N. K. hatchets were made which in outline resemble this figure, perhaps intentionally. 
It is possible, indeed, that the present object represents a fetish, e.g. a bone carefully 
wound round with cloth, and not the cloth alone; but this idea is not as yet supported by 
any ascertained facts.’ The green colouring of the handle in the two figures here given 
suggests that the haft of the sacred axe was conceived as a living vegetable stem, cp. the 
sarcophagus of Hagia Triada (supra p. 520 f.). Griffith of. czt. p. 63 f. col. pl. 5, 60 
(=my fig. 422) is a graphic compound consisting of an open stand or funnel (?), an axe, 


The deity of the double axe 54.5 


and a desert slope, together forming the word-sign for hr-t ntr (kher-t nether), ‘ that which 
belongs to a god,’ z.e. the necropolis or place of the dead. 

P. E. Newberry likewise demurs to the view that the ze¢ev-sign is an axe. Ina letter 
to me, dated Oct. 3, 1908, he says: ‘In outline it certainly looks as though it was so, but 
whenever the sign is coloured the coloured detail shows that it must have been a post (?) 
wrapped with a band of linen the end of which formed a kind of flag.’ But, if this able 
scholar denies us the single axe, he grants us the double axe ; wd his important paper 
‘Two Cults of the Old Kingdom’ in the Azn. Arch, Anthr. 1908 i. 27: ‘In the Fifth 
Dynasty there twice occurstt [tt Mar. dZas¢., D. 38, now in the National Museum at 
Copenhagen, No. 5129; Borchardt’s, Adusiv, p. 120; M. A. Murray, Zudex, pl. XxXx1Vv.] 


~S 
a title ... khet ‘khet-priest of the Double Axe’ tt [1 The Double Axe as a sym- 
=~ 


bol is found as early as the First Dynasty in Egypt (Petrie &.7.7., vir, 12, and Quibell, 





Fig. 420. Fig. 422. Fig. 421. 


Hierakonpolis 1, LXvi11).], which it is possible may be connected with HA, for in the 
‘ A) : 
Twenty-sixth Dynasty is recorded an Amasis who was i) | TI ‘Priest of HA of 


the Double Axe?’SS [S$ 4.Z., XXXvIII, 116.] The.context shows that HA is the name 
of a cult-object or divinity representing a mountain with two or more crests. And New- 
berry compares the Double Axe of ‘ Minoan’ Crete with its ‘ Horns of Consecration.’ 

Sir W. M. Flinders Petrie Zoo/s and Weapons London 1917 pp. 5—18 pls. 1—18 
deals with the various forms of axe and adze found in Egypt and elsewhere, but does not 
include any detailed discussion of their religious significance. 

A cylinder of grey chalcedony, now in the British Museum (no. 89470, as Dr R. Eisler 
kindly informs me), shows an Assyrian priest presenting a sacrifice to a deity, who is 
symbolised by a knobbed sceptre and an axe set upright on a high-backed throne. Behind 
the throne crouches an zéex or oryx, above which are the emblems of IStar, Sin, and 
Sibitti (A. de Longpérier in the ABudletin archéologique de 1’ Atheneum francais 1855 i. 
101 f.=G. Schlumberger Giuures de A. de Longpérier Paris 1883 i. 170 with fig. (=my 
fig. 423), Zransactions of the Third International Congress for the History of Keligtons 
Oxford 1908 ii. 184 f. fig. 2, W. H. Ward in M. Jastrow Bildermappe zur Religion 
Babyloniens und Assyriens Giessen 1912 p. 110 pl. 56, no. 226). The deity thus repre- 


Guile 35 


546 The deity of the double axe 


sented by axe and sceptre is perhaps Adad, who on a cylinder of rock-crystal in the 
Museum at Florence (J. Ménant Les pierres gravées de la Haute-Asie Paris 1883—1886 
ii. 60 fig. 52 (=my fig. 424), 77ansactions of the Third International Congress for the 





History of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 184 f. fig. 3) and on other cylinders (W. H. Ward 
The'Seal Cylinders of Western Asta Washington, D.C. 1910 p. 251 figs. 764, 766, zd. in 
Jastrow of. cit. p. 106 pl. 53, no. 200, supra i. 576 f. fig. 446, cp.i. 577 fig. 447) bears an 





Fig. 425. 


axe in his hand. The adoration of an axe erected as 
the symbol of a god lasted on into the Persian period, 
to judge from a seal-stone published by J. Ménant 
op. cit. li pl. 9, 7 (=my fig. 425), Transactions of the 
Third International Congress for the History of Re- 
ligions Oxford 1908 ii. 185 fig. 4, which possibly illus- 
trates the axizomantia of the Magi (zzfra § 3 (c) i (W)). 

The flint held in the hands of those that swore the 
ancient oath by Iupiter Zafzs (Polyb. 3. 25. 6 ff. Ala 
AlOov, Cic. epist. ad fam. 7. 12. 2, Paul. ex Fest. 
p- 115, 4 ff. Miiller, p. 1oz, rr ff. Lindsay, Plout. 
v. Sull. 10, Apul. de deo Socr. p. 132 Oudendorp, Gell. 
I. 21. 4), and the flint or flints taken by the Fetiales 
from the temple of Iupiter Fevetrivs for the purpose of 
striking a treaty (Liv. 1. 24, 9. 5, 30. 43, Paul. ex Fest. 
p. 92, rf. Miiller, p. 8£, 16 ff. Lindsay) and deemed 
equivalent to the effigy of Iupiter himself (interp. Serv. 


in Verg. Aen. 8. 641, cp. Serv. zn Verg. Aen. 12. 206), are best explained as unhafted 
neolithic celts (G. B. de Rossi in the Az. d. Just. 1867 xxxix. 24 f., E. B. Tylor in 
J. L. Strachan-Davidson Selections from Polybius Oxford 1888 p. 77 n. 1, W. Warde 
Fowler Zhe Roman Festivals London 1899 p. 231, 2d. The Religious Experience of the 
Roman People London 1911 p. 130. I have said my say on the subject in the Class. Kev. 


1904 xVili. 365). 


The deity of the double axe 547 


Barbarised copies of the dvachmé of Rhode (Xosas) in Spain (shortly before c. 250 B.C.), 
struck in silver by the Volcae Tectosages of Gallia Narbonensis and the Sotiates of Aqui- 
tania, often exhibit an axe, the type of which is referable usually to the La Téne period, 
but sometimes to the Hallstatt period, and even to the Bronze Age (R. Forrer Keltische 
Numismatik der Rhein- und Donaulande Strassburg 1908 p. 47 f. figs. go—g2, p. 67 
fig. 118, p. 69f. figs. 126 f., 129—134, pl. 5, 118, 129—134, pl. 22, 127, 2d. Reallex. p. 73 
pl. 23, rr—20). It is at least possible that these axes are symbols of an axe-bearing god 
like Esus (Lucan. 1. 444 ff. with schol. ad loc., Lact. dv. zmst. 1. 21), who in Gallia 
Lugudunensis was associated with Iovis and Volcanus, and in Gallia Belgica with Mer- 
curius and Rosmerta (?) (swfra i. 481 n. g: see further S. Reinach ‘ Teutatés, Esus, 
Taranis’ in the Revue celtique 1897 pp. 137—149=7d. Cultes, mythes et religions Paris 
1905 i. 204216, M. Ihm in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Lic. vi. 694 ff.). 

Latin tomb-inscriptions from Gallia Lugudunensis are very frequently marked with 
the sign of an adze, either incised or carved in relief, and end with the forma: ‘So-and-so 
dedicated this monument under the adze.’ The phrase szé ascta dedicare has for the last 
two centuries provoked the curiosity of the learned. Monographs have been devoted to 
it, and the literature is already large (a helpful summary in Sir J. E. Sandys Ladzz 
Epigraphy Cambridge 1919 pp. 73—8z). Most scholars, including A. Mau in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Euc. ii. 1522 f., take it to mean that the monument was dedicated before 
it was finished, being still, so to say, ‘ under the adze’ of the stone-mason. But O. Hirsch- 
feld, who has edited these inscriptions for the Berlin Corpus, records his emphatic opinion 
that the tombs in question were under the protection of some Gallic divinity symbolised 
by a sacred adze (Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii p. 256). And E. Guimet L’Ascia des Egyptiens 
Lyon 1872 has adduced certain facts which point clearly in the same direction. For 
example, at Avignon ten sepulchral urns of stone were found arranged in a circle with a 
bronze axe in the middle of them (2a. of. cit. p. 1), while in some Italian columéarza the 
urns are covered with a tile of marble or terra cotta on which is the representation of an 
adze—they are literally sd ascéa (id. 7b. p. 2 pl. 1, 10). 

A parallel to these Gallic tombstones ‘dedicated under the adze’ may be found in 
certain runic tombstones dedicated under, or at any rate marked with, the hammer of 
Thor. Two good examples from Hanning and Leborg in Denmark were published by 
H. Petersen Ueber den Gottesdienst und den Géotterglauben des Nordens wahrend der 
Heidenzett trans. M. Riess Gardelegen 1882 pp. 39—-41 fig. 1 f., cp. P. D. Chantepie de 
la Saussaye Zhe Religion of the Teutons Boston and London 1902 p. 239. The parallel 
suggests that the adze on the Gallic tombs was, like Thor’s hammer, the tool of a 
thunder-god. 

R. Eisler Weltenmantel und Himmelszelt Miinchen 1910 ii. 765, after Kiientzle in 
Roscher Lex. AZjyth. iil. 1018, explains ef. Gud. p. 581, 1 f. kal Arpov (leg. dorpov) otrw 
(leg. otrw) kaovpevoy (sc. "Qpiwv), 7 Neyouévn Ukemapvéa as an allusion to the shape of the 
constellation (‘das Orionsternbild wegen seiner Form -:+ als oxémapvov=‘‘ Doppelaxt”’ 
aufgefasst wurde’). 

* Kaineus once planted a javelin in the midst of the market-place and bade men count 
it as a god (schol. //. 1. 264, Eustath. zz //. p. 101, 14f.): the proverb ro Kawéws dépu 
arose from the fact that he forced passers by to swear by his spear (schol. Ap. Rhod. 1. 57). 
Parthenopaios the Arcadian used to swear by his spear and reverence it more than a god 
(Aisch. s. c. 7%. 529 f.). The god whom the Chaeroneans honoured most was the sceptre 
that Hephaistos had made for Zeus. It had subsequently belonged to Hermes, Pelops, 
Atreus, Thyestes, Agamemnon. The Chaeroneans worshipped it, calling it Spear (Adpv). 
It had no temple; but the man who acted as priest kept it in his house fora year. Sacri- 
fices were offered to it daily, and a table was set beside it covered with all sorts of flesh 
and cakes (Paus. 9. 40. 11 f.: suprai. 406. See further Ho/k-Lore 1904 xv. 371 f.). 

The oldest image of Mars at Rome was a spear (ddépu, fasta) kept in the Kegza and 
apparently addressed as AZars (Varro ap. Clem. Al. protr. 4. 46. 4 p. 35, 23 f. Stahlin and 
Arnob. adv. nat. 6. 11, Plout. v. Rom. 29, Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 8. 3). 

’ The Scythian cult of Ares, according to Hdt. 4. 62, was as follows. Bundles of 


33-2 


548 The deity of the double axe 


power that wielded them’, so the ‘ Minoans’ paid divine honours to 
the double axe gua sign and symbol of an anthropomorphic sky-god. 

But an important question remains to be answered. What was 
the name of this dread deity? He was, we have said, the consort 
of the great ‘Minoan’ earth-goddess, whom the Greeks continued 
to reverence at Knossos as Rhea®. Now in Greek myth the husband 
of Rhea is invariably called Kronos*. It follows that Kronos was 
the name by which the Greeks knew the axe-bearing sky-god of 
the ‘Minoans.’ Tradition declared that Kronos and Rhea had 
reigned together in Crete‘. And some interesting details of the 
local cult are on record. Istros the historian, a learned follower of 
Kallimachos, in his Collection of Cretan Sacrifices noted that the 
Kouretes had in ancient times sacrificed children to Kronos®. Xenion 


brushwood were heaped together till they formed a stack three stades long and wide. On 
this stack was constructed a level square. Three sides of it were sheer, the fourth sloping. 
Every year 150 carts brought brushwood to keep up the stack, which had a tendency to 
settle down in the winter. An ancient iron scimitar (dxivd«ys) set on the stack was viewed 
as the image of Ares. To it was brought a yearly sacrifice of sheep and horses. Also one 
out of every hundred prisoners taken alive in war was sacrificed. The Scythians poured 
wine on the men’s heads, slew them over a vessel, and drenched the scimitar with their 
blood. Others below cut off the right shoulders and arms of the victims, flung these into 
the air, and, leaving them to lie where they fell, offered the rest of their sacrifices and 
departed. 

The Alani had no temple, but fixed a naked sword (g/adius) in the ground with bar- 
baric rites and worshipped it as Mars, the chief of the steppes through which they roamed 
(Amm. Mare. 31. 2. 23). : 

Attila, lord of the Hunni, was emboldened by the discovery of the sword ( g/adzzs) of 
Mars, which the kings of the Scythians always regarded as sacred. A herdsman noticed 
one of his heifers limping, followed the blood-drops, and found the sword, upon which 
the heifer while feeding had accidentally trodden. He dug up the sword and brought it to 
Attila, who thereupon deemed that he was ruler of the world and that the sword of Mars 
made him irresistible in war (Priscus Panites frag. 8. Bekker—Niebuhr (p. 224 ed. Bonn.) 
ap. lordan. de Getarum sive Gothorum origine et rebus gestis 35. The original Greek 
account by Priscus (p. 201 ed. Bonn.) is somewhat less detailed). Cp. zzfra § 3 (c) i (¢). 

Silver coins of the Bituriges, imitated from the gold s¢atér of Philip ii (359—336 B.C.) 
of Makedonia, introduce a short sword of La Téne type over the horse on the reverse 
(R. Forrer Keltische Numismatik der Rhein- und Donaulande Strassburg 1908 p. 47 
fig. 89). This perhaps implies the cult of the sword (cp. A. de Longpérier in the Budletin 
archéologigue de l’ Atheneum francais 1855 i. 102=G. Schlumberger Quures de A. de 
Longpérier Paris 1883 i. 171). 

1 See an eminently reasonable article on ‘ Weapon-worship’ by A. Lang in the Morning 
Post for Oct. 14, 1910. 

2 Supra i. 649 n. 3. 

3 See e.g. A. Rapp in Roscher Lex. A/yth. iv. 88 ff. (who, however, does not believe 
that Rhea was aé origine a Cretan goddess). 

4 Kedren. hist. comp. 29 B (i. 52 Bekker) xara Tovrous 6¢ robs xpévous (sc. anno mundi 
3413) év ols Ioadk éyevvi}0n, ev Kpirn dpéar' Kpévov xal 'Péav “EXXnves loropotat. 

5 Istros frag. 47 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 424 Miiller) ap. Porph. de abst. 2. 56 "Iorpos dé év 
TH Duwvaywyh Tov Kpyrixav Ovorav dyciv rods Kouphras 76 wadawov To Kpdvy Ovew maidas 
= Euseb. praep. ev. 4. 16. 7. 


The deity of the double axe 549 


too in his work Oz Crete told how the cave on Mount Ide called 
Arkésion had come by its name. It had ‘helped’ (arkésaz) the 
Kouretes, when they fled from Kronos and concealed themselves 
in its depths. Since the Kouretes in the rites of Zeus /datos posed 
as Zagreus*, the infant thunderer slain by the Titans’, it is probable 
that originally one of the initiates was done to death and eaten by 
the rest as a re-birth of the ‘Minoan’ sky-god‘. The grim legend of 
Kronos swallowing his own children finds at last an explanation’. 
And here it is permissible to conjecture that the word Kyrénos, 
whatever it meant to ‘ Minoan’ ears, was understood by the Greeks 
as ‘Chopper®’—a name appropriate, not only to the axe-bearer, but 
to the axe that he bore. The distinctive Homeric epithet of Kronos 
is ankylométes’, which I would interpret as ‘he of the crooked blade®’ 


1 Xenion frag. 2 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 528 Miiller) ap. et. mag. p. 144, 33 ff. ’Apkéorov* 
otrw Kadovmevov dvtpov TAS Kpnrixjs “Léns* mapa 7d apxéoa, To BonOfoa, paclv av’rd bd 
Koupyrwv dvouacdjva, dre Tov Kpédvov avrots pevyovet, kal els ado Katadvetor (F. Sylburg 
cj. kataddor) kal kputTouévars, Emnpkerev. oTw Reviwy év Tots mepi Kpyrns. 

2 Supra i. 648 ff. 3 Supra i. 398 f., 647. 4 Supra i. 654 ff. 

® For previous attempts to explain the myth see M. Mayer in Roscher Zex. AZyth. ii. 
1538 ff. Gruppe Gr. AZyth. Rel. p. 425 speaks of it as ‘den an ein Menschenopfer sich 
anlehnenden Mythos von der Verschlingung der eigenen Kinder.’ 

5 As Opévos is derived from the root dher (Prellwitz Htym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr. p. 187, 
Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 349 f.), and xpévos from the root gher or Sher 
(Prellwitz of. cit. p. 515), so Kpévos presupposes the xep of xelpw, ‘I cut.’ My expert 
friend Dr P. Giles, whom I consulted on the matter, kindly sends me (Oct. 22, rgr1) the 
following vesponsum: ‘ your derivation seems to be quite possible. The root would be in 
the weak grade xp- and the suffix -ovo-’ (see further Append. A.). The connexion of 
Kpévos with xefpw had, in fact, long since been divined by that acute investigator H. D. 
Miiller AZythologie der griechischen Stimme Gottingen 1861 ii. 137 f. (“Auch sein Name 
ist wohl der physischen Seite seines Wesens entlehnt. Derselbe, von xelpw,...ist=0 Keipwy, 
was entweder...geradezu auf den Erndtegott sich beziehen lasst oder auf seine mythische 
That des Verzehrens, Verschlingens’), cp. zd. in Phzlologus 1857 xii. 555 f. Support for 
it may be found in the words xépvos, ‘prick’ (Hesych. s.v. képvos* Kévrpov. pupolyn 
(M. Schmidt accepts Stephanus’ cj. kevrpouvpoivn, cp. Hesych. s.v. oxédpvos). ZtKkeXol), 
kopywmdes, ‘pricking beasties’ (Hesych. s.v. kopywmides* Kdvwires, cp. Strab. 613 Kopvo- 
miwva =Eustath. zz //. p. 34, 26). Other derivations of Kpédvos are listed by Gruppe G7. 
Myth. Rel. p. 1104 n. 2. Add now A. Carnoy ‘ Le nom de Cronos’ in Le Musée Belge 1920 
Xix—xXiv. 14—20 (cp. Celtic Cera, Italian Cerus-Ceres: the root is that of creo, cresco). 

7 H. Ebeling Lexicon Homericum Lipsiae 1885 i. 14 s.v. ayxido-ujrns. The same 
word was used as an appellative of Zeus (Sch6l1—Studemund avecd. i. 264 no. 13 dyKudo- 
bnrew (sc. Ards), 266 no. t dyKuAomurrew (sc. Ards), 274 dyKuNounrns (sc. Leds), 282 ayKudo- 
pnrns (sc. Zevs)), and of Prometheus (Hes. ¢heog. 546 Ilpoundeds dyxvNouyrys, o. d. 48 
IIpounOeds ayxvNounrns with Proklos and Moschopoulos ad /oc. In Orph. 2. Avon. 13. 7 
Kronos himself is addressed as ‘Péas réa1, ceuvé Ipounfed, on which see M. Mayer in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1546). 

8 The analogy of dyxuAdrotos suggests that the epithet is objective, not subjective. 
For the second element in it see Walde Zat. etym. Worterb.* p. 482 s.v. ‘meto,’ I mow: 
‘Idg. *met- steht neben *mé-...oder *amé- in gr. dudw “‘mihe, ernte,” dudouat ‘sammle” 
..., ahd. mdan, ags. mawan, nhd. mahen, ahd. mad “ Mahd,” ags. m@p “ das Mahen, das 
gemahte Heu”=gr. dunrés ‘abgemahte Frucht, abgeerntetes Feld.”’ 

This interpretation has been in part anticipated by E. Hoffmann AZythen aus der 


550 The deity of the double axe 


in allusion to the god’s Adrpe or sickle-knife—a Thracian? weapon 
found also among many peoples of Asia Minor? (fig. 426)*. Saturn, 
as successor of Kronos, sometimes has a hérfe (fig. 427)4 instead of 
his usual sickle or bill-hook. 

An analogous figure, at once weapon-divinity and divine weapon, 
occurs among the Hittite rock-carvings of Boghaz-Keui. In the 
small gallery at Iasily Kaya may be seen a remarkable relief, some 





Fig. 426. Fig. 427. 
eleven feet high, which represents (fig. 428)° a vast dagger stuck 
vertically into the ground. Closer inspection shows that the handle 
is a human head wearing a conical cap with ribs and rings, and 
that below it, where we look for human shoulders and a human 
body, there is a curious combination of four lions, two with heads 
facing outwards, and two hung downwards each by a single hind- 
leg. Beneath the lions is the great tapering blade with its raised 
midrib. I would venture to regard this Mzschwesen as no mere 


Wanderzeit der gracko-italischen Stamme i Kronos und Zeus Leipzig 1876 pp. 63 f., 82, 
who supposes that Kronos, being armed with a sickle-shaped dpmy or ¢dyk\y, was originally 
entitled *“Ay«udo-Hdys, ‘ Sichel-Herrscher,’—a title later altered into the epithet dyxv\o- 
unrns. Hoffmann, I conceive, was on the right track as regards the first half of the com- 
pound, but spoiled his explanation by an improbable, and indeed unnecessary, guess as to 
the second half. 

1 Clem. Al. strom. 1. 16 p. 49, 2 f. Stahlin val why Opdxes mpGroa thy Kadoumerny apmnv 
(rapuny cod. L.) etpov: éore dé udxatpa kaumvAn=Euseb. praep. ev. to. 6. 6. 

2 S. Reinach in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. ii. 970, M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. ii. 1545. 

3 J. N. Svoronos af. M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1557 fig. 8 (=my fig. 426) 
draws attention to a coin of Tarsos, struck by Valerianus i (253—260 A.D.) and now at 
Athens, which shows a bald-headed god moving to the left with a Adve in his hand. 

4 E.g. Morell. Dhes. Num. Fam. Rom. i. 294 (wrongly described) pl. Neria, 1, Babelon 
Monn. rép. rom. ii. 253 f. fig. (=my fig. 427), G. Wissowa in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iv. 430 
fig. 1, Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. i. 504 nos. 3950-3952 pl. 49, 11. This head 
appears on coins struck by the two: guaestores urbant, who administered the aerarzum 
Saturni (Babelon of. cit. i. pp. xl, xlix, ii. 657 Index). 

> G. Perrot—E. Guillaume—J. Delbet Axfloration archéologique de la Galatie et de la 
Bithynie etc. Paris 1872 i. 358 f., ii pls. 49 and 50, 3, Perrot—Chipiez Hist. de 1’ Art iv. 
642 figs. 318 (face incorrectly turned to right) and 320, J. Garstang Zhe Land of the 
Hittites London 1910 pp. 228, 239 ff., 360 pl. 70 (=my fig. 428), Frazer Golden Bough’: 
Adonis Attis Osiris? i. 131, 139 f., E. Meyer Reich und Kultur der Chetiter Berlin 1914 
p: loo f. fig. 77. 


The deity of the double axe 551 


‘heraldic figure, but as the youthful consort of the Hittite earth- 


=_ 
= = 
ee. 





at 
—a— 
Ba — 
WY 


a 
SS 
ii f, Ve \ 
WN 
SAK 
RN SAN \ 















hws \\, \ Z 
“= Me z ; 
ye WV B. | 
yu! M ny B | ; 
\\ Y Z i 
pes g | 
\ m= ( 
NG \ |, 5 
Jif{ts" | if 
\} } 
\ 
r fe / 
3 3 My / 
/) WGA Mn 
oy Z 
A J); y 
ee pars 
Z - 
YD, ee iT | j f 
3 4 Bio's nd j ; 
"4y Y¥ ZZ Pn 
ea YZ ane MX ) iii I 
¥ (A can ee Wty fil) Laftlllee! 
Ke Mahe teu aml fell EER AAU 
See oe fos ‘ihe mY ee ie} | 
» "W) » 


jj 


I 


Ne RA Twa ra sa Vag lin 
ph ac) vie" ANY he hy 
Fig. 428. 


1 J. Garstang of. cit. p. 228. Perrot—Chipiez Joc. cit. say cautiously: ‘un dieu.’ 
J. Garstang of. cit. p. 239 f. would identify ‘the dirk-deity’...‘ with the Sandon of Tarsus, 
Hercules son of Zeus,’ pointing out that Hercules too wore a lion-skin. Frazer of. cit.* i. 
139: ‘their god was a lion, or rather a lion-man, a being in whom the bestial and human 


552 The deity of the double axe 


mother. And that for two reasons. On the one hand, he is evidently 
a lion-god, and so a fit partner for a lion-goddess like Rhea?. On 
the other hand, he is a cutting blade, and so comparable with Krénos, 
the ‘Chopper. J. Garstang? and Sir J. G. Frazer® both agree that 
this dagger-god with his beardless head and leonine body must be 
identified with the youthful god standing on a lioness(?) in the large 
recess of the same rock-sanctuary*. And it will be remembered that 
the god in question carries a double axe as well as a short sword. 
But the double axe, as we have observed, was the weapon of the 
sky-god. It is, therefore, reasonable to surmise that the divine 
Dagger plunged into the ground, like the divine Axe hafted into a 
leafy stem, betokens the all-important union of Sky with Earth. 
Returning to Kronos, we note that the ‘Minoan’ representation 
of him as posting through the sky with four wings® is not without 
Anatolian parallels. Silver coins of Mallos in Kilikia exhibit a four- 
winged and sometimes Janiform god hasting on his way with a 
disk in his hands; and we have already adopted the view that he 
is a solar Kronos®. Similarly bronze coins of Byblos in Phoinike, 
struck by the Syrian kings from Antiochos iv Epiphanes (175— 
164 B.C.) to Antiochos viii Grypos (125—96 B.C.)’ or issued as auto- 
nomous and imperial pieces in the first century B.C., show Kronos, 
the founder of the city’, as a nude deity equipped with three pairs 
of wings. He stands resting his right hand on a sceptre and wearing 
a head-dress of feathers (fig. 429)°. This representation of the god 


natures mysteriously co-existed.’ E. Meyer of. cz#, p. 100: ‘das Symbol eines machtigen 
Gottes des Krieges und der Jagd’ (cp. 2d. p. too f. fig. 78 a relief from Sinjerli of a winged 
lion with a human head growing upright from his neck behind the ears). 

1 Sir A. J. Evans in the Anxn. Brit. Sch. Ath. tgoo—1901 vii. 28 ff. fig. g published 
a clay sealing from a recess off the central court of the palace at Knossos, which shows a 
warrior-goddess on a mountain-top flanked by two lions, with a male worshipper to the 
right and a sacred edifice to the left (‘the prototype of the later Kybelé and Rhea’). Za. 
26. 1902—1903 ix. 59 f. figs. 37 f. published two clay seal-impressions from the ‘ Temple 
Repositories’ of the same palace. One represents a warrior-goddess accompanied by a 
lion; the other, a warrior-god accompanied by a lioness (?). Za. in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 
IQOI xxi. 163—168 figs. 43 and 44 f. further illustrates the ‘ Minoan’ seal-types of a god 
or a goddess between two lions and concludes: ‘The male divinity is not so much the 
consort as the son or youthful favourite. The relationship is rather that of Rhea than of 
Hera to Zeus, of Adonis rather than of Arés to Aphrodité.’ 


2 J. Garstang of. cit. p. 240. 3 Frazer op. cit.3 1. 139. 
+ Supra i. 599 n. 6, 603, 605 fig. 476. 
5 Supra p. 544 fig. 419. 6 Supra i. 297 f. figs. 221—223. 


7 Head Hist. num.? p. 791. G. F. Hill in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phoenicia p. Ixii 
states: ‘Byblus seems to have been a mint of the Seleucidae only from the time of 
‘ Antiochus iv (175—164) to that of Antiochus vii (138—129).’ 

8 Philon Bybl. frag. 2 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 568 Miiller) af. Euseb. praep. ev. 1. 10. 19. 

® E. Babelon Les Rots de Syrie, d’ Arménie et de Commagéne Paris 1890 p. 85 no. 671 
pl. 14, 18, Imhoof-Blumer Choix de monn. gr? pl. 7, 224 Antiochos iv (=my fig. 429), 


The deity of the double axe 553 


agrees in the main with the description of him given by Sanchou- 
niathon', whose words are thus rendered by Philon of Byblos?: 


‘ Moreover, he (sc. the god Taautos, z.e. Thoth) devised a mark of royalty for 
Kronos, four eyes in front and behind, < two of them wide awake > and two 
quietly closing, and four wing's on his shoulders, two of them as it were spread 
for flight, and two as it were drooped. This symbolised the fact that Kronos 
saw while he slept and slept while he waked ; and likewise with his wings, that 
he flew while he rested and rested while he flew. To each of the other gods he 
assigned two wings upon the shoulders, on the ground that they shared in the 
flight of Kronos. Again, he gave Kronos two feathers on the head, one for the 
sovereignty of mind and one for sense-perception.’ 


The same four-winged deity appears in gwasz-Assyrian garb as the 
central medallion of a silver-gilt bowl of s. vii(?) B.c., found by 





L. P. di Cesnola at Kourion in Kypros and now in the Metropolitan 
Museum of Art at New York*. The god, armed with a short 
sword, is stabbing a lion—a type which recurs on a silver bowl 
from Idalion now in the Louvre*—, and about him hover two 
Egyptising hawks. 

The double axe of the ‘Minoan’ Kronos is combined with the 
hdrpe of the post-‘Minoan’ Kronos on certain coppers of Ake 
(‘Akka, St Jean d@’Acre) or Ptolemais in Phoinike discussed by 
G. F. Hill (figs. 431, 432). These show a god standing in an aedz- 


zd. Monn. gr. p. 442 nos. 13 and 13 dis Antiochos iv, no. 14 Antiochos v, Brét. Mus. 
Cat. Coins Phoenicia pp. Ixiii f., lxix, 97 pl. 12, 5 and 98 pl. 12, 8 autonomous, 99 
Augustus, Head Hist. num.” p. 791. See further A. Judas in the Rev. Num. ii Série 
1856 i. 395 pl. 13, 7 autonomous (=my fig. 430), cp. 7d. p. 394 pl. 13, 5 (countermark). 

Supra i. 191. 

* Philon Bybl. frag. 2 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 569 Miiller) af. Euseb. praep. ev. 1. 10. 36f. 
The context in general is discussed by Gruppe Czlt. ALyth. orient. Rel. i. 347 ff., and the 
treatment of Kronos in particular by M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 1498 ff., cp. 
W: W. Baudissin Adonis und Esmun Leipzig 1911 p. 297 f. 

% L. P. di Cesnola Cyfrus London 1877 p. 329 fig., G. Colonna-Ceccaldi Monuments 
antiques de Chypre de Syrie et d’ Egypte Paris 1882 p. 166 ff. pl. 10, Perrot—Chipiez Aist. 
de l’ Art iii. 787 ff. fig. 552, J. L. Myres Handbook of the Cesnola Collection of Antiquities 
from Cyprus New York 1914 p. 461 no. 4554 fig. 

4 Perrot—Chipiez Hist. de /’Art iii. 778 ff. fig. 548. 

5 G, F. Hill ‘Some Graeco-Phoenician Shrines’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1911 xxxi. 
63 f. pl. 4, 32 and 34, zd. in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phoenicia p. 135 pl. 17, 5 


554 The deity of the double axe 


cula or portable shrine with an Egyptian cornice: he holds a double 
axe in his right hand, a drfe in his left, and is flanked by the fore- 
parts of two bulls. 

When the Bronze Age passed into the Iron Age, the ‘ Minoan’ 
Kronos was succeeded by the Hellenic Zeus—a succession facili- 
tated by the similar character of the two gods. O. Gruppe! points 
out that Kronos, like Zeus, was worshipped on mountains, many 
heights in Greece*, Libye, Italy, Sicily, and the west? being 


(=my fig. 431) Elagabalos, p. 138 pl. 17, 10 (=my fig. 432) Gallienus, Head Hist. num.” 
P- 794- 

1 Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1105 n. t. 

2 (t) To the north of the Altis at Olympia rises 74 Kpéviov (dpos) (Pind. O2. 1. 111, 
6. 64, Nem. 6. 63, Xen. Hell. 7. 4. 14, Diod. 15. 77, Plout. de fluv. 19. 3, Paus. 5. 21. 2, 
6. 19. 1, 6. 20. 1, cp. Anth. Pal. 12.64. 2 (Alkaios Mess.) where Salmasius cj. aimew@... 
brd Kpovi for aimwi...b7d xpovia cod.), otherwise called 6 Kpévios N6gos (Dion. Hal. 
ant. Rom. {. 34, et. mag. p. 426, 20f.) or the like (Pind. O/. 8. 17 map Kpévou Addy, Io. 
49 f. mayov | Kpévov, 11. 25 map’ evdévdpw...6x0w Kpévov), on the top of which the Basélaz 
offered sacrifices to Kronos at the spring equinox in the Elean month Elaphios (Paus. 6. 
20. 1, cp. Dion. Hal. azt. Rom. 1. 34). (2) Ptol. 3. 16. 14 with schol. ad Joc. mentions 
a Kpévioy in Lakonike. (3) Bekker amecd. i. 273, 20 f. Kpéviov réuevos* 7d mapa 7d viv 
"Odvutvov expe TOD Myrpwov Tod év aryopd (leg. év” Apa or év "Aypas: see C, Wachsmuth 
Die Stadt Athen im Alterthum Leipzig 1874 i. 227, zd. in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. 
i. 888). (4) P. Chiotis ‘Ioropixd ’Aropuvynuoveduara ris vpoov LaxvvOov Kepxvipa 1849 i. 15 
(cited by M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 1485) speaks of oxédedor Kpdvior in Zakynthos. 

3 Lyd. de mens. 4. 71 p. 123, 7 ff. Wiinsch 6 6¢ Kpadrns (C. Wachsmuth De Cratete 
Mallota Lipsiae 1860 p. 71 frag. sedis incertae 9) rov Kpévov pnot DexeNas kal Iradias cai 
Tod mrelorouv mépous THs AcBins Baciedoa amnvads, Toy O€ TobToU vidv émiOécba TH Tarpl 
kal avrov pév els rxarov éhdcat THs dicews, Nuepwrara dé Tis Baorelas avTiaBécGa, Kal 
dia TooTO TiunO var ws Oedv, 4. 154 Pp. 170, 6 ff. Wiinsch Kai Baorredoar 5é adrov (sc. Kpdvov) 
7 toropia 7a <pa> didwow, <ws umpo>cbev ddnynoduny, K<aTd> Te Thy AiBinv <Kal> 
ZikeNav <Kal rods éorepiovs T5>mouvs kal r<b6>Aw Krioa, ws 6 Xdpat nol (frag. 17 
(Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 640 Miiller)), r< tv rére wev Ney>opmevnv Kpoviav, viv dé ‘lepay rodw, 
ws Ioiyovos <mepi Ila\>cxav Oedr ( frag. 20 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 437 Miiller)) cat Tlodéuwv 
(frag. 102 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 148 Miiller)) cal Aloxédos év 7H Alrvy (frag. 11 Nauck?) 
1 <apadiddacw 7 Ws Tag >a fh ioropla Kara Tov Eviuepov (G. Némethy Auhemeri reliquiae 
Budapestini 1889 frag. to) moukiN\ <erat, K.7.A.>, Diod. 3. 61 duvacrefoa dé pace Tov 
Kpévov xara Zuxeday kat AiBinv, ére 6é Ti “Iradlav, kal 7d cbvodov év Tots mpos éamépav 
Tomas cuoTncacbar Thy Baci\elay’ mapa maou dé ppovpats duakaréxew Tas axpomddets Kal 
Tovds éxupols Tov Térwy [ToUTwWY]* ad’ of 5H uéxpt TOD vov ypbvou KaTd TE THY DixeNlay Kai 
TQ mpos éomépay vevovTa pépn Todovs Tay UWyrGv Torwv am’ éexelvov Kpdvia mpocayopevecOar, 
Cic. de nat. deor. 3. 44 de patre eorum Saturno id negari potest, quem vulgo maxime 
colunt ad occidentem ? 

Saturn was much in evidence throughout Roman Africa, where the Phoenician Ba‘a/- 
hammin (supra i. 353 f.) was Latinised as Satuznus and on occasion Grecised as Avrénos 
(J. Toutain De Saturni Dei in Africa Romana cultu Lutetie Parisiorum 1894, td. Les 
cités Romaines de la Tunisie Paris 1896 pp. 213 ff., 222 f., 2d. Les cultes paiens dans 
Lempire romain Paris 1907 i. 247 f., A. Schulten Das vimische Afrika Leipzig 1899 
p- 20 ff., G. Wissowa in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iv. 441 ff., td. Rel. Kult. Rim.” p. 208). To 
give but a single example, Saturnus Balcaranensis (also Balcaranesis, Balcharanensis, 
Balkharanensis), that is Ba‘al Qarnaim, ‘Lord of the Two Horns,’ was worshipped near 
Carthage on a two-peaked mountain, which still bears the name Djebel Bou-Kournein. 
Here on the highest summit the god had a ¢émenos and an altar of masonry set against 





The deity of the double axe Bos 


the rock, but no temple. J. Toutain ‘Le sanctuaire de Saturnus Balcaranensis’ in the 
Mélanges d’archéologie et @ histoire 1892 xii. 1—124 figs. 1—3 pls. r—4 (F. Cumont in 
Pauly—Wissowa eal-Enc. ii. 2822 f., M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 1500 f.) has 
published the finds made on this interesting site. They include some 60 terra-cotta lamps, 
a cylindrical jar containing bones of birds (probably doves), a few other vases, some small 
copper coins, and no less than 365 votive inscriptions (a selection in Dessau Zuser. Lat. 
sel. nNOS. 4444°—4445), many of them accompanied by reliefs (e.g. pl. 1, 2=my fig. 433, 
pl. 1, 4=my fig. 434, pl. 1, 6=my fig. 435). The dedication takes various forms: Saturno 
Augusto sacrum ox Saturno Domino or Saturno Sancto. And frequently the local epithet 
is added: Saturno Augusto Balcaranensi, Saturno Balcaranensi Augusto, Saturno Domino 
Balcaranensi Augusto; sacerdos dei magni Balcaranensis. M. Mayer Joc. cit. observes 
that the god is always represented as a mere bust in a pediment, flanked by his bill-hook 
and fazera, with Sol and Luna in the spandrels, and ingeniously suggests that he is an 
anthropomorphised daz¢y/os. The ‘Two Horns’ recall the Egyptian hieroglyph of a desert 








a 
“SAT VRNOP 
||] RANES? 


pave 


e 


IL 
Fig. 433- 


mountain (F. Ll. Griffith A Collection of Hieroglyphs London 1898 p. 31 col. pl. 3, 38), 
in which P. E. Newberry ‘Two Cults of the Old Kingdom’ in the Aun. Arch. Anthr. 
1908 i. 24 ff. figs. 1—15 finds the prototype of the ‘ Minoan’ ritual horns. He has argued 
his case well; but I adhere to my view that the ‘ Minoan’ horns were originally bovine. 

An island in the Ionian Gulf was known as Kpovia and gave its name to the Kpovia 
@d\acoa (Eustath. 7 Dionys. ger. 32, cp. Ap. Rhod. 4. 327). Italy as a whole was sacred 
to Kronos—x@por dé modXoi rod daipovos émdvumot, Kal udduora of oxdmedoe Kal TA eTEwpa. 
(Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. t. 34). For the identification of Kronos with Saturn and its results 
on Italian soil see G. Wissowa in Roscher Lex. A/yth. iv. 432 ff. 

Sicily too had its Kpévvov (Diod. 15. 16, Polyain. 5. 10. 5). The most noteworthy link 
between this island and Kronos is, however, the tradition that, not merely the god’s sickle 
(supra p. 448 n. 0), but the god himself lay buried here (Philochoros frag. 184 (Frag. 
hist. Gr. i. 414 Miiller) af. Clem. Al. Avotr. 2. 30. 3 p. 22, 14 ff. Stahlin Purdxopos de év 
Tyvm Iocedava pyor tipdocOa larpov, Kpovy dé émixetobar ZuxeNav kal évravOa avrov 
TeOagpOa, Arnob. adv. nat. 4. 25 noster ille est auctor, qui Patrocles Thurius (7vag. Gr. 


556 The deity of the double axe 


frag. p. 830 Nauck?) scriptorum in titulis indicatur, qui tumulos memorat reliquiasque 
Saturnias tellure in Sicula contineri? (Arnobius has apparently misread the context in 


‘lh il alletl 


— - sah 
4 (errr 
Si, 4, 








SXIVRN OAV GBAICARAN ESE 
A LSEXTILIVS COMMVNISEGRE |S 
GCIVSVIS OADAAONJIVSLIBER: 
‘N ANTAAO-VOTV AM SOLVIT: 








De 
































= 
== \ 
“A 
\ 
A { 
N, 
“Abe 

















Fig. 434. 


Clemens Joc. cit.)). It is_very possible that this belief in a Sicilian grave of Kronos, com 
parable with the Cretan grave of Zeus, was a genuine heritage from * Minoan’ times. 


SEO 


- The deity of the double axe Fe, 


named after him, and that the memory of him as a rain-god}, 


ents ANTM O- IIE Al 
TERIV[ (0: ff QEMENTE: ca}. 


Ve Te 
















iy 


7 





my ili yy 





Fig. 435. 


Finally, near Carthago Nova in Spain was yet another Hill of Kronos (Polyb. 10. ro. 
II tpogayopeverat Kpdvou, Plin. zat. hzst. 3. 19 a promunturio, quod Saturni vocatur). 

1 Allegorizing philosophers identified Kronos with dark afr (anon. aA\7yopiat d6voudtwr 
Gedy in A. Westermann Scriptores poeticae historiae Graect Brunsvigae 1843 p. 328, 11 f. 
Zevs 6 kafapds anp kal 7d dvw nucpalpiov, Kpdvos 6 fopwdns anp kai 7d KaTw Hutopalpiov, 
cp. Tzetz. Hom. 289 rotvexa NvéE karéBatve mort Kpévov jepdevra) ; Egyptians, with water 
(Sallustius wept @eGv kal xoouov 4 of Alyimrio...aita Ta cHuata Beods vouloavres Kal 
Kkahécavres* kal “low pev tiv yhv, Oop d€ 7d bypdv, Tupava dé rHv Oepudryta, 7) Kpdvov 
peév Udwp, “Adwyw 6é xapmovs, Acévucoy 5é otvoy with J. Conrad Orelli ad /oc. Cp. interp. 
Serv. zz Verg. georg. I. 12 quod Saturnus humoris totius et frigoris deus sit); ‘ dwellers 
in the west,’ with winter (Theopompos /rag. 293 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 328 Miiller) ap. Plout. 
de Is. et Os. 69 rods 5 rpds éorrépay olxodvras icropet Oedwoumos tyyeto Oar kal Kadely Tov meV 
xeuGva Kpédvor, ro d€ Oépos ’Adpodirny, 7d dé dap Ilepoepovnv’ éx d€ Kpdvovu kal "Agpodirns 
yevvaoGar mdvra, cp. Prokl. zz Plat. remp. ii. 61, 22 Kroll 61d kai pace Tov wpdv Tiny mev 
xetmepwmy elvac Kpoviav, x.7.X.): neo-Platonists associated him with the pole (Prokl. 27 
Plat. remp. ii. 213, 4 f. Kroll rod wev Kpévou tov réodov eival dace siuBodov* k.T.X., Cp. 
Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 6. 115. 5 an oracle af. Porph. repli rijs éx Noylwy pidocodias 
ap. Euseb. praep. ev. 6. 1. 4 bYumédovo Kpdvoro, Nonn. Dion. 41. 350 bWurddo1o (A. Lud- 
wich cj. bYxmdpo0) Kpévov). And nascent etymology connected his name with the words 
pos or xpouvds (Plat. Crat. 402 B regards both ‘Péa and Kpévos as pevydrwy dvduata, 
Philodem. mepi evceBelas 12=H. Diels Doxographi Graect Berolini 1879 p. 546b 21 ff. 
kat Kpdévov [uév ro] rod pev[u]aros pldo]v, ‘Péav d€ rhv yqv, Ala dé rdv aldépa (supra i. 29 
n. 4), cp. et. mag. p. 540, 9 ff. Xpvourmos 6€ pycw bre Kka’ypwr dvTwy Tov drwy Kal SuBpwv 
KaTapepouévew ToNNGv Thy Exxptow To'rwy Kpdvov dvoudoda, Porphyrios in schol. B.D. 
1.15. 21 kal ‘Holodos Ovpavev uev Néyer THv éxmipwow, Kpdvov dé tov dvwhev Kpovvnddv 
émipepduevov OuBpov, ‘Péay dé tiv émippeouévny tdace viv, K.T.X.). 

More weight attaches to the Pythagorean description of the sea as ‘ Kronos’ tear’ 
(Plout. de Zs. et Os. 32 7d bro TGv IvOayopixGv Neyouevov ws H Addatrra Kpdvov daxpudv 
éorw, Clem. Al. strom. 5. 8 p. 360, 20f. Stahlin rocadra kal of Iv@aydbpecoe qviccorro... 


558 The deity of the double axe 


if not also as a lightning-god (fig. 436)}, lingered on into classical 
times. 


Kpévov...daxpvoy thy 0ddaccav adAnyopotvtes, Porph. v. 
Pyth. 41 deve 6€ twa kal wrvorik@ Tpdrw cupBorkds, a di 
émutdéov ’ApiororéAns (frag. 191 Rose) avéypawer, ofov dre 
Thy Oddarrav...exdder evat (V. Rose cj. Kpévov) daxpvor. 
The Ophite sect of the Peratai in one of their sacred books 
described an androgynous primeval power, which é«\70y 
Oddacoa. Tabrny Ti divamw 7 dyvwola éexddece Kpévov, x.r.X. (Hippol. ref. haeres. 5. 14 
p. 184 Duncker—Schneidewin, where Gruppe Cult. MLyth. orient. Rel. i. 515 f. would 


alter Odd\acoa into Oaddré, from 1 ‘to beget,’ in view of Berosos frag. 1. 4 (Frag. 
hist. Gr. Miiller ii. 497) af. Alex. Polyhist. (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 210 Miiller) af. Synkell. 
chron. 29 C (i. §2 Dindorf) dpxyew 5€ rovTwv mdvTwy yuvaixa 7 dvoua ‘Oudpwxa* elvar dé 
Toro XaNéatori wev OardrG, “EXAnviori 5é webepunveterOa Oddacoa, cp. Damask. v. Lsid. 
115 ap. Phot. d2b2. p. 343 b 21 f. Bekker drt Polvixes kat Lvpor rov Kpévov “HX kal Bar 
Kat OoddOnv (so H. A. Hamaker for BordOnv, Bodtabyv, Bwrabyv codd.) érovoudfovow. 
M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1475 cites Stob. ecl. 1. 5. 14 p. 77, 16 Wachsmuth 
=Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 3. 147. 10 (Theon Al. seu Hermes) ddxpu pév éort Kpévos, 
Zevs 5 7 yéveots, Novos ‘Epujs | x.7.d. from a poem on the seven planets). 

Again, there seems to have been a popular belief that rain was the sweat of Kronos ; 
for a charm preserved in a magical papyrus of.s. iv A.D. makes the magician identify 
himself with Kronos (?) : ‘I am he whose sweat is rain falling upon the earth to impregnate 
it’ (F. G. Kenyon Greek Papyri in the British Museum London 1893 i. 64 ff. no. 46, 
150 ff. éyw eis 6 dorpdmrwy | kat Bpovrdv* éyw elu, ob eorw | 6 dpw&s OuBpos éruretrrwy 
(leg. éwiminrwv) él\ri rhv yhv, wa dxetn* x.7.d., A. Dieterich Advaxas Leipzig 1891 p. 25, 
M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1474). Hence Nonnos speaks of ‘ Kronos dropping 
rain’ (Nonn. Déon. 6. 178 are Kpévos duBpov ladXdwv, supra i. 398). 

The planet Kronos likewise brought rain, hail, wind, and thunderstorms (Epigenes of 

Byzantion ap. Sen. zat. guaestt. 7. 4. 2 huic videtur plurimum virium habere ad omnes 
sublimium motus stella Saturni: ‘haec cum proxima signa Marti premit aut [in] lunae 
viciniam transit aut in solis incidit radios, natura ventosa et frigida contrahit pluribus locis 
aéra conglobatque. deinde si radios solis adsumpsit, tonat fulguratque : si Martem quoque 
consentientem habet, fulminat,’ Serv. zz Verg. georg. 1. 336 Saturnus deus pluviarum est... 
hic autem in Capricorno facit gravissimas pluvias, et praecipue in Italia...ut in Scorpio 
grandines: item in alio fulmina: in alio ventos= Myth. Vat. 3. 1. 3 stella Saturno 
deputata ortu suo tristitiam semper denuntiat. illa enim in Capricorno posita pluvias 
gravissimas, sed praecipue in Italia, commovet...in Scorpio vero grandines, item in alio 
signo fulniina, in alio ventos, in aliis alia nocua apportat). 
_ } The Paris magical papyrus contains a pavreia Kpovixy, in which Kronos is invoked 
as a god of thunder and lightning (C. Wessely Griechische Zauberpapyrus von Paris und 
London Wien 1888 p. 98 pap. Par. 3102 Bpovrokepavvordtwp, on which A. Dieterich 
Abraxas Leipzig 1891 p. 79 n. g remarks: ‘Man beachte den Rest metrischer Form, 
die dieses Miihlenlied gewiss gehabt hat’). Cp. also a charm in the Anastasy papyrus 
(C. Wessely of. czt. p. 106 pap. Lond. 151, 155=F. G. Kenyon Greek Papyri in the 
British Museum London 1893 i. 64 ff. no. 46, 150 f. ey eluc 6 dotpamrwr | kal Bpovrar, 
supra p. 558n.0). For the planet Kronos in relation to thunderstorms see the preceding 
n. sub fin. 

A unique silver /étra of Himera, struck c. 413—408 B.C., has for obverse type a bearded 
head of Kronos, bound with a fillet, and for reverse a thunderbolt between two corn-grains 
(Imhoof-Blumer Monn. gr. p. 21 pl. B, 4 (=my fig. 436), M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. Myth. 
ll. 1553 fig. 5, G. F. Hill Coins of Ancient Sicily Westminster 1903 p. 128, Head Ast. 
num. p. 145). It is probable, though not quite certain, that we should connect the front 
of this coin with the back and recognise in the combined design a deity with his attributes. 





Fig. 436. 


le ee 


The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 559 


(€) The double axe and Zeus Kataibates. 


We are, therefore, prepared to find that towns and districts for- 
merly occupied by ‘Minoans’ might centuries later connect Zeus 
with the double axe that had belonged to his predecessor. This 
seems to have been the case, for example, in south Italy. Tradition 
derived the Iapyges from the Cretan followers of king Minos; and 
in Iapygia ‘bolts from heaven forged of bronze were long to be 
seen.’ The deity who hurled these bolts—‘fire and bronze from 
the sky’—had a pillar-cult, and was called by the Tarentines Zeus 
Kataibdétes'. A strong presumption is thus raised that the old 
‘Minoan’ sky-god had here passed on the double axe of bronze to 
his Hellenic successor Zeus?. 


(7) The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos, etc. 


The same thing happened repeatedly in Asia Minor. Evidence 
is forthcoming from Lydia, Karia, Kypros, and Kappadokia. Plu- 
tarch propounds, as one of his Hellenze Questions*, the following 
problem: ‘Why does the image of Zeus Labradezs in Karia bear 
an uplifted double axe, and not a sceptre or a thunderbolt?’ His 
solution is this : 


‘Because Herakles slew Hippolyte, took her double axe along with the rest 
of her weapons, and gave it as a gift to Omphale. The kings, who, after Omphale, 
reigned over Lydia, used to carry it, receiving it in succession as a sacred heir- 
loom, till Kandaules, disdaining to do so, gave it to one of his friends to carry®. 
But when Gyges revolted from him and made war against him, Arselis® came 
from Mylasa’ with a force to help Gyges, and slew Kandaules and his friend. 
The double axe he took into Karia together with the rest of the spoils. He made 


1 Supra pp. 29—31- 

* Not improbably bronze axes, regarded as thunderbolts (C. Blinkenberg 7he Thunder- 
weapon in Religion and Folklore Cambridge 1911 p. 121), were from time to time dug up 
in the locality. Z.g. T. E. Peet Zhe Stone and Bronze Ages in Italy and Sicily Oxford 
1909 p. 423 records the finding of a bronze winged axe in the ¢erxvamara at Taranto. 

5 Plout. guaestt. Gr. 45 dia Th ToD AaBpadéws Ards é€v Kapia 76 dyahua réXeKuy npyevor, 
oxi 5€ oKATTpoyv 7 Kepavvdy, TemolnTat ; 

4 See now Frazer Golden Bough*®: Adonis Attis Osiris® i. 182 ff. (‘The Divinity of 
Lydian Kings’). 

5 G. Radet La Lydie et le monde grec au temps des Mermnades (687—546) Paris 1893 
pp. 88f., r29f. 

6 M. Duncker Geschichte des Alterthums® Leipzig 1878 i. 488 conjectured that” Apon\s 
was not a historical personage, but the name or epithet of the Zeus of Mylasa—‘eine 
Vermuthung, die dadurch Gewissheit wird, dass Chars-El in den semitischen Sprachen: 
Beil des El, Beil Gottes bedeutet? [? Lassen Z. D.M.G. ro, 381].’ This ingenious explana- 
tion, first put forward by C. Lassen in the Zectschrift der Deutschen morgenlandischen Gesell- 
schaft x. 381, is rightly rejected by R. Schubert Geschichte der Konige von Lydien Breslau 
1884 p. 32 f. and G. Radet of. cét. p. 136 n. 2. 

7 A. Meineke corrects é« Mudéwy codd. into ék MuAacéwy. 


560 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


an image of Zeus, put the double axe in his hand, and named the god Laéradeis 
—for the Lydians call the double axe /dbrys1’ 


Thus, according to Plutarch, the double axe belonged successively 
to the Amazons, the Lydians, and the Carians. 

It is, in fact, constantly associated with the Amazons, and that 
in two forms—the double axe with a pair of blades (débrys, pélekys, 
amphipélekkon (?)*, bipennzs) and the battle-axe with one broad blade 
and one pointed end (sdégaris, securis). These types appear in art 
from the fifth century B.C. onwards, and thence make their way 
into literature as part of the regular Amazonian equipment*®. Now 
the Amazons stand in intimate relation to the Hittites4, and both 
types of axe occur on Hittite monuments®. The double axe in par- 
ticular is borne by the youthful god who stands on a lioness (?) at 
Boghaz-Keui®, and by his successor Herakles (Sandas) at Tarsos’. 
I should therefore infer from the story of Herakles taking the 
ldbrys of Hippolyte to Lydia that the axe in question belonged 
to the younger Hittite god, who turns up in Lydia as Sandon 
Herakles®. 


1 [. Thomopoulos Ile\aoyixd. Athens rg12 p. goof. argues from the forms \aBpa-devs, 
AaBpa-vdevs that the Carico-Lydian word for ‘axe’ or ‘sword’ was *\dBpa, not AdBpus, 
and even suggests that the second element of the compound -devs is probably for Ze’s (cp. 
Hesych. Aev’s* Zeds, etc.): ‘"O0ev Aa Bpadeds onuaive ‘*rov AaBpopédpoy Ala.”’’ A highly 
precarious speculation. 

2 Hesych. duguredén (so Musurus with cod. G. Soping cj. duguredéxn F. Guyet cj. 
duguredéxkn H. Stephanus would read duquredéxky or dugdurédexxov M. Schmidt, after 
L. C. Valckenaer, prints duquredéx.. (Z/. 13. 612 dul medéxxw))* medéxrov SlaTopor, 
Kupnvato. 6 dé’ Aplorapxos Tov Tis akivys orehedy arédwxev. 

3 Hippolyte, daughter of Ares (Schol. //. 3. 189, Hyg. fad. 30), has a double axe on 
a copper of Perinthos struck by Elagabalos (F. Imhoof-Blumer in the Mum. Zeztschr. 
1884 xvi. 234f. pl. 4, 4), a battle-axe on an Etruscan mirror (Gerhard Z¢r. Spiegel iv. 
85 f. pl. 341, 2, A. Kliigmann in Roscher Lex. AZyth. i. 2680). See also Waddington— 
Babelon—Reinach Monn. gr. d’ As. Min. i. 371 pl. 60, 19 a copper of Herakleia Pontike 
struck by Macrinus, 2. i. 377 pl. 61, 21 another copper of the same town struck by 
Gordianus iii Pius. 

4 So much, but no more, is clear from the facts cited by W. Leonhard Hettcter und 
Amazonen Leipzig—Berlin 1911 pp. 1—252. See e.g. J. Garstang Zhe Land of the Hit- 
zztes London 19gto pp. 213 n. I, 357 nN. 4, 372N. 3, A. J. Reinach ‘ L’origine des Amazons’ 
in the Revue de Phistotre des religions 1913 pp. 277—308, F. M. Bennett Religzous Cults 
associated with the Amazons New York 1912 p. 73f. n. 360, E. Meyer Rech und Kultur 
der Chetiter Berlin 1914 pp. 91, 159- - 

5 W. Leonhard of. czt. p. 113 n. 2 with title-vzgrette. 

8 Supra i. 599 n. 6, 603, 605 fig. 476, ii. 552 ne 4 

? Supra i. 599 figs. 462—464, cp. i. 631f. 

8 Lyd. de magistr. 3. 64 p. 155, 18 ff. Wiinsch (a propos of Lydian cdvdukes) Toroirw 
Tov ‘Hpakdéa xiTGvi mepiBarovoa ‘Ougdddn more aloxpas épGvra mapeOjduve. TadTy Kal 
Lavdav ‘Hpaxdjs dvyvéxOn, ws Arrodjlos 6 ‘Pwuatos Pirscopos év TH ervypagomévy. Epwrik@, 
kai Tpdyxvddos dé mpo adrod év T@ mepl Emiojuwy mopvav avernvoxaciw. evOev oluar cavddvas 
ért kal viv mpos diacupuod AéyerOar, k.7-A. Hdt. 1, 71 mentions a prominent Lydian named 
Zdvdavis. See further O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iv. 321, 326f. 


The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 561 


Plutarch’s statement that this 4ébrys was a sacred heirloom of 
the Lydian kings, introduced into Karia in the time 
of Gyges (716—678 B.C.) and there placed in the hand 
of Zeus, is to some extent confirmed by the coin-types 
of Lydia and Karia. At Thyateira in Lydia the double 
axe appears by itself on bronze coins of Seleucid and 
imperial date (fig. 437). But on other bronze pieces 
of the same town, referred to the time of Trajan or 
Hadrian, it is shouldered by a young man on horseback inscribed 
Tyrimnos (fig. 438). This youthful rider represents the Thyatirene 
hero®, whose precinct? and temple® stood before the city’. He was 








Fig. 439. Fig. 440. 


known as ‘the forefather Tyrimnos’’ or ‘the forefather god Ty- 
rimnos’, and gave his name to the local festival of the Tyrimneia’. 
As a youthful athletic god he was equated with Apollon under the 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia pp. 292f. pl. 29, 3f., 302f., Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 
468 nos. 1, 2, 469 no. 12, F. Imhoof-Blumer Lydische Stadtmiinzen Genf—Leipzig 1897 
p- 148 pl. 6, 6, p. 149 nos. 7, 7a, p. 151 n. 2. I figure a specimen, struck under Nero, 
from my collection. 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 294 pl. 29, 6, F. Imhoof-Blumer Lydische Stadt- 
munzen Genf—Leipzig 1897 p. 149 f. pl. 6, 9 (=my fig. 438), Head Ast. num.” p. 658. 

3 F. Imhoof-Blumer of. ct. p. 150 f., Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 1241 n. 5, 1249 n. 2. 

4 G. Radet ‘Inscriptions de Lydie’ inthe Bull. Corr. Hell. 1887 xi. 478 f. no. 57, 14 ff. 
(Kirk-Agatsch) dywvobe[TH)[o]avra Kad@s x[ai xa]|[ra]loxevdoarta t[6 mpo]|[r]iAacov Tod 
t[exé]|[volus Tod Tupiuvov. 

° G. Radet doc. cit. p. 459 f. no. 22, 2 ff. (Thyateira) with the corrections of P. Stouraites 
in ‘Apuovia, June 24, 1894= Ath. Mitth. 1894 xix. 535f. mp@rov dywvobérny Ths mp(s)|Tws 
axGeions 1d Tis Toews | DeBaoretov kal Tupruvyjov walynyipews. Cp. zufran. 7. 

8 Corp. inser. Gr. ii no. 3493, 1 ff. (Thyateira) dywvoerncar|ra tod po modews Tupi- 
mvou év|ddgws Kal émipayds. Cp. infra p. 562 n. I. 

7M. Clere ‘Inscriptions de Thyatire et des environs’ in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1886 
x. 420f. no. 29, 2f. (Aféder) eis 7d [iepdy tod mpomdropos] | Tup({u)you (the stone has 
TYPHNOY). 

8 Corp. inser. Gr. ii no. 3497, 22 f. (Thyateira) rov iepéa 700 mpo|mdropos God Tupiuvov. 

9 A. Wilhelm in the 4zh, A/itth. 1891 xvi. 132 no. 5, 5 f.=W. R. Paton in Juscr. Gr. 
ims. ii no. 388, 5 f. (Mytilene) x(al) év Oearelpas (Wilhelm has Oearelpas) Tulpiuvea, P. 
Foucart in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1887 xi. 104 ff. no. 26, 5 ff. (SéendZ) adywvobernoar|[Ta 
Tov] weydhwv DeBacray | [Tupi]urjwy ayovwr. 


C. II. 36 


562 The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 


joint appellation ‘Apollon Z7y¥rimnos'; and consequently also with 
Helios, his full title then being ‘the forefather god Helios Pythios 
Apollon Zyrimunatos*’ or ‘the forefather god Helios Pythios Ty- 
rimnatos Apollon®” Apollon Ty¥rzmnos is seen on bronze coins of 
Thyateira grasping the double axe. Sometimes he stands erect, a 
naked figure, long-haired and laureate, holding the axe in one hand 
and a bay-branch in the other (figs. 439, 440)*. Sometimes, wearing 
a chlamys, he takes his stand with axe and branch in his temple 





Fig. 442. 


(fig. 441)°, or with axe and agonistic urn as lord of the Pythian 
games (fig. 442)°. Occasionally, though not often before the third 
century A.D., he wears the radiate crown of Helios’ and even 
appears in the solar chariot (fig. 443)% It is clear, then, that at 
Thyateira the ancestral hero Tyrimnos, who bore the sacred axe of 
the youthful Hittite sky-god, came to be identified with Apollon 
and ultimately with Helios. And here we note that a heroic figure 
on horseback likewise bearing the /dbrys occurs on the bronze 


1G. Radet Joc. cit. p. 453 no. 14, 2f (Kenés) "Awéd\Xwve Tupluvol[e kJal ry rarpl|d., 
p. 463 no. 29, 5 ff. (Thyateira) dywvober(y)cavra tod mpd | rédews ’Amb\Nwvos Tupl|uvou 
Aavrpos kal evddéw[s]. 

2 Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no. 3500, 8 ff. (Thyateira) (i)epeds ro(0) | mpomaropos Oeod ‘HXlov 
IIv6i|[o]u “Aré\Xwvos (T)vpiuvaiov, E. L. Hicks ‘Inscriptions from Thyatira’ in the C/ass. 
Rev. 1889 iii. 137 no. 14, 4 ff. 6 dywvo|Gérns Tod mpoma|ropos Geod ‘HXi\ov Iv@lov ’Amé)- 
Aw|vos T(v)pyuvaiov. Cp. G. Radet doc. cit. p. 475 f. no. 49, 6 (AZéder) Tupimvai[ov?]. 

3 P. Foucart in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1887 xi. 101 ff. no. 24, 2 ff. (AZéder) h xpariorn 
kat didocBacros THs Aau|mporarns Kal Suacnuoradrys Kal lepds | Tod mpomaropos Geod ‘“HAXiov 
Tlv@iov | Tupiuvatov ’Amé\\wvos OvarerpnvGy | 3bdews Bovdy k.T-A. 

4 F. Imhoof-Blumer Lydische Stadtmiinzen Genf—Leipzig 1897 p. 151 f. pl. 6, 10 
(=my fig. 439) Hadrian. Jd. Kleinas. Miinzen i. 186 pl. 6, 15 (=my fig. 440) Trajan, 
Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 294 pl. 29, 5 time of Trajan or Hadrian, p. 303 pl. 31, 1 
Trajan, add a chlamjs to the otherwise nude figure. 

5 F, Imhoof-Blumer Lydische Stadtmiinzen Genf—Leipzig 1897 pp. 151, 158 pl. 6, 15 
(= my fig. 441) Geta. 

6 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 314 no. 119 Iulia Soaemias, F. Imhoof-Blumer o/. 
cit. p. 158 f. pl. 6, 16 (=my fig. 442) Iulia Soaemias. 

7 Infra p. 564 n. 4. 

8 F, Imhoof-Blumer of. cit. pp. 151, 159 pl. 6, 17 (=my fig. 443) Severus Alexander. 


The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 563 


coinage of other Lydian towns— Apollonia (Tripolis) (?)!, Blaundos 
(fig. 444), Mastaura®, Mostene‘, Tomaris®. At Mostene he is once 









PT LLL ee eS . 
: Py Mi 


— CLs 
" 


ere 
ERAN NS NS 





cx. 








at least flanked by sun and moon (fig. 445)*, and is repeatedly seen 
riding towards a.cypress-tree, before which stands a flaming altar 
(fig. 446)’, sometimes escorted on his way by Hermes psychopompds(?) 


* Imhoof-Blumer Gr. Miinzen p. 143 f. no. 425 pl. 10, r (‘Amazone’)=za. Lydische 
Stadtmiinzen p. 38 pl. 2, 17 (‘jugendlicher Heros’). B. V. Head in the Brit. Mus. Cat. 
Coins p. 363 pl. 38, 4f. says: ‘Amazon (?),’ and adds in a footnote: ‘The Rider on these 
specimens is distinctly feminine in appearance,’ etc. But see F. Imhoof-Blumer Lydesche 
Stadtmiinzen p. 103. 

* Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 53 pl. 5, 12 (=my fig. 444) Marcus Aurelius, cp. 
P- 55 no. 85 Philippus Senior and p. 57 no. gt Trebonianus Gallus; F. Imhoof-Blumer 
Lydische Stadtmiinzen p. 51 pl. 3, 8. 

% Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 157 no. 5 f. Tiberius and Livia, F. Imhoof-Blumer 
op. cit. p. 96 no. 3 Tiberius and Livia. 

4 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 161 pl. 17, 8 (é. p. 161 no. 2 ‘Rider apparently 
female’) of s. ii or i B.c., p. 162 no. 7 f. Claudius and Agrippina, F. Imhoof-Blumer of. 
cit. p. 100 no, 1 time of Augustus, or earlier, p. 101 no. 4 Claudius and Agrippina, no. 5 
Vespasian. 

® F. Imhoof-Blumer of. czt. p. 165 pl. 7, 6. 

° F. Imhoof-Blumer of. cit. p. ror f. pl. 4, 19 (=my fig. 445) Vespasian. 

* Brit. Mus, Cat. Coins Lydia p. 162 pl. 17, 10 time of Commodus (?), p. 162 no. 9 
Hadrian, p. 163 pl. 17, 12 (=my fig. 446) Lucius Verus, p. 163 pl. 17, 13 Lucilla, p. 163 
no. 13 Commodus, p. 164 nos. 16 and 17 pl. 17, t4 Gallienus. 


36—z2 


564 The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 


(fig. 447). Again, at Mostene? and at Tabala (fig. 448)*, as at 
Thyateira‘, he wears a rayed crown. But he is never accompanied 
by a name, so that we cannot say whether he represents Tyrimnos 
or, as is more probable, the hero of the immediate neighbourhood. 
In any case he is a hero on his way to becoming a god. Indeed, 
he is apparently identified with Apollon at Hypaipa, where he 
adopts the guise of Apollon 7yrzmuos (fig. 449). We have, how- 
ever, reason to think that the Lydians sometimes brought their 
lébrys into connexion with a goddess. At Mostene, where the hero 





Fig. 451. Fig. 452. 


Fig. 449- 





stood in some relation to a sacred cypress®, imperial coppers show 
a goddess (Demeter ?), with #dé/athos and long chitén, holding two 
corn-ears in her right hand and a double axe in her left (fig. 450)’; 
or else they show the axe alone between a bunch of grapes and 
two ears of corn (fig. 451)*%. And at Nysa a copper of Maximinus 
represents a goddess (Kore ?), with chztén and himdtion, who has a 
snake (?) in her right hand and leans her left arm on a double axe 
(fig. 452). These types suggest that the Hittite god, who at Ivriz 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia pp. Ixxvi, 164 no. 15 Gallienus, Hunter Cat. Cozns ii. 
458 pl. 55, 24 (=my fig. 447), Imhoof-Blumer A/onn. gr. p. 387 no. 20 Marcus Aurelius, 
no. 21 Commodus. 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 162 pl. 17, 10 time of Commodus (?), p. 163 pl. 17, 
12 (=my fig. 446) Lucius Verus, p. 163 pl. 17, 13(?) Lucilla, p. 163 no. 13 Commodus, 
p- 164 nos. 15, 16, 17 pl. 17, 14 Gallienus, F. Imhoof-Blumer Lydische Stadtmiinzen 
p- 102 no, 8, p. 103 f. 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 289 pl. 28, 12 Commodus, cp. p. 291 no. 15 Severus 
Alexander, F. Imhoof-Blumer of. cét. p. 146 pl. 6, 3 (=my fig. 448). 

4 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 308 no. 89 (?) Septimius Severus, p. 315 no. 122 
Severus Alexander, p. 318 no. 137 Maximinus, Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 471 no. 20 Maxi- 
minus, F. Imhoof-Blumer of. cit. pp. 151, 153 nO. 19, 155 pl. 6, 13, 159 pl. 6, 17 (=my 
fig. 443), pl. 6, 18. Supra p. 562. 

5 Imhoof-Blumer A7vecnas. Miinzen i. 173 no. r pl. 6, 5 (=my fig. 449) Sabina. 

8 Supra p. 563 n. 7 and p. 564 n. I. 

7 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 161 pl. 17, 9 (=my fig. 450) ‘Hadrian to the Anto- 
nines,’ F. Imhoof-Blumer Lydische Stadtmiinzen p. 101 pl. 4, 18 ‘Aus der Zeit des 
Traian oder Hadrian.’ 

8 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 162 pl. 17, 11 (=my fig. 451) Sabina, F. Imhoof- 
Blumer of. ct. p. 102 no. 7 Sabina, p. 104. Znfra § 3 (c) i (0) emt. 

9 F, Imhoof-Blumer of. cé¢. p. 110 pl. 4, 21 (=my fig. 452) Maximinus, K. Regling 


The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 565 


holds grape-bunches and corn-ears?, had on Lydian soil come to be 
regarded as Dionysos?® and had passed on his axe to Demeter and 
Kore. 

What happened in Lydia, happened with some variation in 
Phrygia also. The /éérys alone occurs on coppers of Eriza* and 
Eumeneia*. On others of Abbaitis it is surrounded by a bay-wreath 










VG? 


‘“OISANO 





vi 





Fig. 453- Fig. 454. Fig. 455- 


(fig. 453)°% At Hierapolis some specimens show its handle bound 
with a fillet (fig. 454)°, or twined about with a snake’—a design 
known earlier at Eumeneia (fig. 455)*. Other very remarkable coins 
of Hierapolis represent the double axe erect on a two-stepped base 
with its handle encircled by the snake and surmounted by a radiate 
head (figs. 456—458)*. The axe-bearing rider is of frequent occur- 


in W. y. Diest Vysa ad Maeandrum (Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. Erginzungsheft 
x) Berlin 1913 p. 86 no. 145 pl. 13, 145 Maximinus. 

1 Supra i. 594 f. fig. 453. 

2 A good collection of data for the worship of Dionysos in Lydia will be found in W. 
Quandt De Baccho ab Alexandri aetate in Asia Minore culto Halis Saxonum 1913 
pp- 175—188, 191 f. That the Lydian Dionysos had some Hittite (?) prototype may perhaps 
be inferred from Steph. Byz. s.v. Macravpa: més Avdias, dro Mas. Ma de 7 ‘Pég elrero, 
n mapédwxe Leds Acévucov tpépew. kal 7 M@ rapa rhs" Hpas épwrnfeica, rlvos etn 7d Bpédos, 
“Apeos, py. kal mapa Kapolv 6 Acédvucos Macapis évOev €xdjOn. éxadeiro dé kal 7 ‘Péa MG 
kal tadpos airy eOvero mapa Avdots, ad’ js m mods (the etymologies of Mdo-ravpa and 
Mde-apis are, of course, wholly unreliable). 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 202 no. 1 of s. i B.C. (?) or later, Head Hist. num.” 
p- 673. 

+ Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 216 no. 40 Nero. 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat.. Coins Phrygia p. 2 no. g pl. 2, 3 and no. to of s. ii B.c. (?), Head 
Hist. num.* p. 663. I figure a specimen in the Fitzwilliam Museum (W. M. Leake 
Numismata Hellenica London 1856 Asiatic Greece p. 1 ‘ wreath of oak’). 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 243 no. 93 pl. 31, 1 (=my fig. 454) and no. 94 
struck by Fabius Maximus in 5 B.C. 

7 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 247 no. 117 Nero. 

8 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 212 nos. 12, 13 pl. 27, 3 (=my fig. 455), 14—19, 
Head Hist. num.* p. 673 after 133 B.c.: obv. head of Dionysos with band across forehead 
and ivy-wreath; vev. tripod containing /ébes with three handles, surmounted by flat cover 
fringed with spikes (?); above, and on either side, three stars ; attached to tripod, on left 
side, double axe with snake twined round handle, and on right side a bay-branch filleted. 
The double axe with snake round handle recurs as the countermark on coins of Eumeneia 
struck under Nero (2d. p. 217 no. 42 f.) and Domitian (2d. p. 218 no. 50 f., Imhoof-Blumer 
Kleinas. Miinzen i. 230 no. 7 pl. 7, 23 with n. 2 Nero, Agrippina). 

° L. Ross and E. Gerhard in the Arch. Zeit. 1844 ii. 344 no. 50 dzs from the Prokesch- 
Osten collection, 2. 1845 iii pl. 32, 51 (=my fig. 456), T. Panofka Asklepios und diz 


’ 


566 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


rence—at Ankyra!, where an altar burns before him, at Diony- 
sopolis, where he appears not only on coins? but in a small 
uninscribed relief*, at Eumeneia (fig. 459)*, Hierapolis®, Stektorion®, 
Synaos’, Temenothyrai’, Traianopolis*. The name or names at- 
tached to this hero we do not know for certain, But it is probable 





* 


Tc 4 






SUVVC LS ag 
aS WEIN 


\ 
. Xx 
SN os 
SN y ; 
: a 3 = 
tS) 





Fig. 456. Fig. 457. Fig. 458. Fig. 459. 
that at Hierapolis he was called Lazrbends, and at Dionysopolis 
Lairmendés or the like. Both towns seem to have identified him 
with Apollon. Hierapolis in the second and third centuries a.D. 
issued coppers bearing as obverse type a radiate bust, sometimes 
without legend”, more often inscribed Lazrbends (fig. 460)" or 


Asklepiaden (Abh. d. berl. Akad. 1846 Phil.-hist. Classe) Berlin 1846 pp. 340, 358 pl. 7, 
13, V. C. Cavedoni in the Arch. Zeit. 1847 v. 125, W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 
1808 f. (‘lauft oben in das Strahlenhaupt des Helios aus’), Imhoof-Blumer A7Zeznas. Miin- 
zen i. 239 no. 22 (‘dariiber Kopf des Apollon Lairbenos’) pl. 7, 30 (=my fig. 457), Brit. 
Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia pp. Ixviii (‘surmounted by head of Helios [Lairbenos]’), 245 
(‘surmounted by head of Helios’) pl. 31, 7 (=my fig. 458) Augustus. 

1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 67 no. 49 Otacilia. 

> Imhoof-Blumer A7einas. Miinzen i. 219 no. 4 head of Demos, early in s, iii A.D., 
Head Ast. num.” p. 671. 

3 Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1889 x. 219 (at Develar near Dionyso- 
polis). 

+ Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia pp. lxii, 218 no. 50 f. Domitian, 220 pl. 27, 12 (=my 
fig. 459) Marcus Aurelius, Waster Cat. Coins ii. 486 pl. 56,24 Marcus Aurelius, Head 7st. 
num.” p. 674. 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia pp. 234 pl. 30, 2 obv. head of Zeus Bozzos (infra 
fig. 465), 238 no. 69 obv. head of Demos, unbearded, 240 nos. 77 and 78 pl. 30, 8 odv. 
bust of Boule, veiled, 241 nos. 79 pl. 30, 9 and 8o f. odv. bust of Gerousia, veiled, 247 
nos. 114—116 Claudius and 118 Nero, 248 nos. 119 pl. 31, 9 and 120—122 Nero, 251 pl. 
32, 1 Marcus Aurelius, Imhoof-Blumer Gr. Miinzen p. 215 no. 698 Augustus, zd. AZeznas. 
Miinzen i. 239 no. 24 Augustus, 240 no. 27 Nero. 

6 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 386 no. 17 Philippus Senior, Imhoof-Blumer 
Kleinas. Miinzen i. 291 no. 3 Philippus Senior. 

7 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia pp. xcvii, 391 no. 21 Philippus Senior. 

8 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia pp. civ, 414 no. 31 Philippus Iunior, 416 pl. 48, 7 
Gallienus. 

9 Brit. Mus. Cat, Coins Phrygia pp. cvi, 426 no. 1of. ov. bust of Demos, unbearded, 
429 pl. 50, 9 Gordianus, Imhoof-Blumer AJ/e:zas. Miinzen i. 302 no. 2 Gordianus, no. 3 
obv. bust of Demos, unbearded. 

10 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 230 no. 18. 

1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 236 ff. pl. 30, 6, Imhoof-Blumer A7veinas. Miinzen 
i. 236 f. nos. 8 pl. 7, 31 (=my fig. 460) and gf., Head Hzst. num.” p. 676. 


The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 567 


A rchegétes (figs. 461, 462)}, that is, Apollon Archegétes*. And as to 
Dionysopolis, its inhabitants, together with those of Atyochorion, 
Hierapolis, and Motella, used to repair for worship to the ancient 
religious centre of the district, the Azerén of Mother Leto and 
Apollon Lairmenés. Here, at Badinlar some two miles north of 





Fig. 462. 


‘Orta-Keut, Sir W. M. Ramsay and Dr D. G. Hogarth in 1887 dis- 
covered the ruins of a small temple on a hill 700 feet above the 
Maiandros*. Numerous dedications record the god’s name in a 
great variety of forms—Lazrmenés* or Apollon Latrmends*, Apollon 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 231 pl. 29, 8 (=my fig. 461), cp. pp. 233 pi. 29, 
10 (=my fig. 462) with lyre at breast, 234 no. 46, Rasche Lex. Mum. i. 1042, Head Hist. 
num.” p. 676. 

2 Corp. inscr. Gr. iii. no. 3905 (Hierapolis)’Amé\X\wne ’Apynyérn k.T.d. (= W. Judeich 
in Altertiimer von Hierapolis (Jahrb. d. kats. deutsch. arch. Inst. Erganzungsheft iv) 
Berlin 1898 p. 68 f. no. 4.2), no. 3906, 4 (Hierapolis) etAews tuetv dy ’Arb\Nwv ]— Apxnyérns 
(=Judeich Joc. czt. p. 68 no. 2 elhews duiv 6<u> | ’Apxnyérns), Sir W. M. Ramsay The 
Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia Oxford 1895 i. 115 no. 19, 4f. (Hierapolis) [@]ocay 5€ ot 
Maxedovixol rots onua|pdpor(s) rod Apxnyérov Améd\Nwvos cTepavywrikdv K.T.r. (=Judeich 
Joc. cit. p. 119f. no. 153, 4f.). The same title recurs at Oturak in Phrygia (Sir W. M. 
Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1883 iv. 4109 ff. no. 33 b=7d. The Cities and Bishoprics 
of Phrygia Oxford 1897 ii. 566 ff. nos. 467—469 B on the second side of a marble altar 
cited supra p. 312 n. §). See further O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Real. Enc. ii. 443. 

3D. G. Hogarth ‘Apollo Lermenus’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1887 viii. 376—400, 
Sir W. M. Ramsay ‘ Artemis-Leto and Apollo-Lairbenos’ 74. 1889 x. 216—230, zd. The 
Church in the Roman Empire before a.D. rzo London 1893 p. 137 f., 2a. The Cities and 
Bishoprics of Phrygia Oxford 1895 i. t30—141, W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 
1802—1809, C. Cichorius in Altertiimer von Hierapolis (Jahrb. d. kats. deutsch. arch. Inst. 
Ergianzungsheft iv) Berlin 1898 p. 43. 

4 Journ. Hell. Stud. 1889 x. 217 no. 1, 7 7@ AatpunvO=The Cities and Bishoprics of 
Phrygia i. 149 no. 41. 

5 Journ. Hell, Stud, 1887 viii. 376 ff. no. 1, 1 ff.’Awo\Nwr[a] | Aacpunvor Oelov] | érepav7 


568 The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 


Larmenés’, Apollon Larbends*, Apollon Leimends*, Apollon Lyr- 
menos‘, Helios Apollon Lermenés*, Helios Apollon Lyermends*’. The 
marble s¢ée that mentions Apollon Lyrmends is topped by a relief 
representing a double axe. We may, therefore, with a clear con- 
science regard some at least of the Phrygian riders as effigies of 





Oz 

kKATHAXOENZ= THA 

-AKPTON YTIOTOY BO 
Tl OAA.OLN ITAPS 


THEA MHNKEANE OHKAE VA 
PIANOTIEF FNOMHN OA Sap 
HPOC 4 





Fig. 463. Fig. 464. 
Lairbenos or Lairmenos, who was identified both with Apollon and 
with Helios. But here we must walk warily ; for a votive széle from 
Koula shows another axe-bearer on horseback named Apollon 
Lozends (fig. 463)’, while a second stée from the same site has a 


Kara ér[e]|raynv «.7.d., 8 ’AmbAAwWYL Aapuny[d] | «.7.X, (a later inscription, dated 209 A.D.) = 
The Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia i. 147 no. 37. 

1 Journ. Hell. Stud. 1887 viii. 389 no. 18, 2 ff. kodac|[Gels b]rd rob émg|[aveor]dérov 
Ge08 | [’AwdA]Awvos Aap\[unvod]= The Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia i. 152 no. 51. 

2 Journ. Hell. Stud. 1883 iv. 381 f. no. 4, 4= The Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia i. 
148 no. 39 [kara émirayiy OelOv Amd\Awre AapBave@ K.T.A. 

3 Journ. Hell. Stud. 1887 viii. 385 ff. no. 15, 1 ff. wéyas’Améddw Aerunvds. | Ddppov 
iepos koNe(Oe)ts | erro’ AméAAwvos Aci|unvod x.t.X.= The Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia i. 
151 f. no. 49, where however Sir W. M. Ramsay reads Ac[p]unvés and Ac[p]unvod. 

4 Journ. Hell. Stud. 1889 x. 218f. no. 2, 1 ff [Ov]jouwos "Ard\rAwve [A]v[p]|[4nvd] 
evéduevos brrep TOD KoAl|acO]évros Bods did 7d Vor[Epy]|[Kév Je k.7.A. = The Cities and Bishoprics 
of Phrygia i. 149 f. no. 42. Above the inscription is carved a /dbrys. 

5 Journ. Hell. Stud. 1883 iv. 380 f. no. 3, 3 f.= The Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia 
i, 147 no. 38‘HXlw [’Ard\Xwr] | Acpunva. 

8 Journ. Hell. Stud. 1883 iv. 383 no. 5= The Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygiai. 146 
no. 34 Myrpi Anrot cal‘H\iw ’Amdd|Awye Avepunva@ K.T.X. 

7 A. Conze in the Arch. Zeit. 1880 xxxviii. 37f., Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. 
fell. Stud. 1889 x. 226 no. 18, id. The Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia i. 152f. no. 52, 
Ant. Skulpt. Berlin p. 252 no. 680-fig. (=my fig. 463). The inscription runs: ’Avrwvia 
“Avrwviov ’Ardd|\wre OS Bognvd dia 7 dlvaBeBy[Kélve we emi tov xdlpoy (for 7d xwplov) év 


The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 569 


double axe in relief as the symbol of Apollon Zarseizs (fig. 464). 
These two appellatives, both of the local order, deserve a moment’s 
notice. Bozends implies a place *Soz¢s or *Bdza. And Sir W. M. 
Ramsay® maintains that *4ozzs is the equivalent (with European 
vocalization) of Bazts*, the name applied to the estate of Zeus 
Asbamaios near Tyana in Kappadokia‘*. He further® contends that 
Bazts is for *Baghts, to be connected, not only with Zend dbagha, 
‘god, Old Persian daga, ‘god,’ and Sanskrit dhaga, ‘lord, but also 
—as A. Fick declared*’—with the Phrygian Zeus Aagaéos’. Thus 


purap® émevdurn, | ko\acBioa 6é eEwmoro|ynoaunv Ke avéOnxa evdolylav dre éyevdunv Odb- 
[kA]|npos. 

1 A. Conze in the Arch. Zett. 1880 xxxviii. 38, Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. 
Hell. Stud, 1889 x. 226 no. 19, Ant. Skulpt. Berlin p. 252 no. 681 fig. (=my fig. 464). 
Beneath the /dérys is inscribed : dvOéornoav oi’ Ap|réuwvos boi rd | karnaxOev (for kareaxGév) 
aTn\\Aapiov bd Tod Bolds’ AmwéA\wre Tapor. 

2 Sir W. M. Ramsay Zhe Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia i. 153: ‘comparing Atta- 
los—Ottalos, Atreus—Otreus, Tattes—Tottes, Anas—Onnes, Kadauas—Kadouas, Vavas— 
Vovas, Marsyas—Morsynos (p. 145) we find that Bozis is the exact equivalent to Bazis, 
the name of the god’s estate at Tyana, used also as a personal name [Bagers or Bafeis as 
a feminine personal name at Komana in Kappadokia (Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journal 
of Philology 1882 xi. 148 no. 6, 1f.’A@nvats Zrtrov H | Kal Bafecs)].’ 

Seb tolnen Out. 

4 Philostr. v. Apoll. t. 6 p. 5 Kayser éote 6€ Te rept Téava vdwp ‘Opkiov Ards, as pace, 
kadodar 6€ ard “AcBauatov, ov rny? avadldorar Wuxpa, mapdager dé, Worep 6 Oepuatvduevos 
EBs. Toto evdpkois wev thedy Te Kai HOV VSwp, émcdpkots Oe mapa Tbdas 7 Oikn: am@ooKhmTE: yap 
kal és dpOadpovs Kal és xelpas kal és médas, Kal depois aNickovTar Kal POdas, Kat ovd amed- 
Oeiv Suvarév, adN avrdOe €xovrat Kal d\opvpovrat mpds TH VdaTL 6uodroyoovTes a émidpknoay * 
of pev 6 eyXwptol pact maida rod Ards Tov ’Amo\Aduov yeryovévat, 65 dvhp “Amro\wrlov 
éauvrov Kae = Aristot. m2. awsc. 152 and, much abbreviated, in Souid. s.v. ’AcBamatov, cp. 
Amm. Marc. 23. 6. 19 apud Asbamaei quoque Iovis templum in Cappadocia, ubi amplis- 
simus ille philosophus Apollonius traditur natus prope oppidum Tyana, stagno effluens 
fons cernitur qui magnitudine aquarum inflatus seseque resorbens numquam extra margines 
intumescit. D. G. Hogarth ‘Modern and ancient roads in eastern Asia Minor’ in the 
Royal Geographical Society: Supplementary Papers 1893 iii. 656 identifies this bubbling 
spring with ‘the boiling pond near Ekuzli Hissar...still resorted to from far and wide by 
all afflicted with skin diseases.’ Since the Iupiter Asdamaeuws of Ammianus Marcellinus is 
the Zeus “Opxios of Philostratos, S. Bochart Phaleg* Lugduni Batavorum—Trajecti ad 
Rhenum 1692 p. 535 proposed to derive "AcBapaios from the Hebrew seda, ‘oath’ (A7/e-seba 
or Me-hasseba, ‘aquae juramenti’). C. Lassen in the Zeztschri/t der Deutschen morgen- 
landischen Gesellschaft 1856 x. 377 attempted to connect it with the Zend and Old Persian 
agman, ‘heaven,’—a view rightly rejected by P. Carolidis Bemerkungen zu den alten 
kleinasiatischen Sprachen und Mythen Strassburg 1913 p. 38f. W. Robertson Smith 
Lectures on the Religion of the Semites® London 1907 p. 182, with much greater probability, 
took it to mean the ‘seven waters,’ in Syriac shab‘a maya. 

5 Sir W. M. Ramsay Zhe Historical Geography of Asia Minor (Royal Geographical 
Society's Supplementary Papers vol. iv) London 1890 p. 347, 7d. and D. G. Hogarth 
‘Prehellenic Monuments of Cappadocia’ in the Recueil de Travaux relatifs a la Philologie 
et dl Archéologie Egyptiennes et Assyriennes Paris 1893 xiv. 80. 

6 A. Fick Die ehemalige Spracheinheit der Indogermanen Europas Gottingen 1873 
p- 412. ; 

7 Hesych. Bayaios:...7) Leds Pptyios. péyas, wodvs, raxvs (the last three words are 
bracketed by M. Schmidt, but see supra p. 295 n. 2). H. L. Ahrens De dialecto Dorica 


570 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


*Bozts and Baz¢ts would denote ‘the estate of the god’; and with 
them might be ranked the Lydian Adgzs, a town in the Kata- 
kekaumene!. Further, the epithet of Apollon Bozendés appears to 
be comparable with that of Zeus 
Abozenés in an inscription from 
Nakoleia?, if not also with that 
of Zeus Bozios on copper coins 
of Hierapolis (fig. 465)*% If 
Apollon Bozends possibly hails 
from Tyana, Apollon TZarseis 
certainly hails from Tarsos on the opposite side of Mount 
Tauros. Here the god is known to have had a sacred weapon 
of some sort. Dion Chrysostomos at the outset of his /zrs¢ 
Tarstan Oration mentions, among subjects likely to appeal to the 
patriotic pride of his audience, ‘ Apollon’s trident‘ But Plutarch, 
his contemporary, speaks of ‘the sacred sword of Apollon at Tarsos,.’ 





Fig. 465. 


Gottingae 1843 p. 567 would restore ® Bayate Mafed or & Bayate ra Zed in Aisch. spi. 
892 Dindorf (supra p. 293 n. 4). 

Fick’s derivation of Bayatos is supported by F. Solmsen in the Zettschrift fiir ver- 
gleichende Sprachforschung 1895 xxxiv. 49 (‘dass Baryatos auf entlehnung aus dem apers. 
baga beruht’), O. Wiedemann in the Bettrdge zur kunde der indogermanischen sprachen 
1904 xxviii. 12 f., Walde Lat. etym. Worterb.” p. 267 (who, however, abandons ‘ Die alte 
Verbindung mit ¢ayeiv’). 

A. Torp ‘Bayaios’ in the Zndogermanische Forschungen 1895 v. 193 f., P. Kretschmer 
Einleitung in die Geschichte der griechischen Sprache Gottingen 1896 p. 81 (sapra i. 400 
n. I), Prellwitz Ztym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr.” p. 486, K. Brugmann Grundriss der ver- 
gleichenden Grammatik der indogermanischen Sprachen” Strassburg 1897 i. 168 advocate 
the rival connexion of Bayatos with @yyés, Doric gayés, ‘oak,’ Latin fagws, Anglo-Saxon 
boc, ‘beech,’ etc. If so, cp. the Celtic divinities mentioned in inscriptions of the Allobroges: 
Corp. tnscr. Lat. xii no. 2383 = Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 4620 (an altar found at Morestel) 
Iovi | Baginati | Corinthus | Nigidi | Aeliani | ex vot., Dessau Zuscr. Lat. sel. no 4669 
(found at Tarendel near Bellecombe) Felix Smelri f. Bagino | et Bagina|tiabus | [v.]s.1-m. 
That these too were oak-deities may be inferred from Max. Tyr. diss. 8. 8 Diibner Kedroi 
céBovor wev Ala, dya\pa dé Avds Kedrixov bWnd} dpds (see further Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 
79, Folk-lore 1904 xv. 296, and especially 26. 1906 xvii. 53). 

1 Hierokles ovvéxSnuos p. 671, 1 Wesseling, p. 21 Burckhardt. See further B. V. Head 
in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. xxxviii ff., 30 ff. pl. 4, 5—11, pl. 41, 1. 

2 G. Radet and H. Ouvré in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1896 xx. 109 no. 4 (a sééle, the 
upper part of which showed a wreath) “Avdpwv Tewuo|\@éov BaBaert|\ns trép rev idi\wy Ad 
"ABofnv|@ ebxjv. On the possible sites of Babai and Abozena see G. Radet in the Archives 
des Missions Scientifigues 1894 vi. 441 f.; and on the equation of ’ABofnvés with Bofnvrés, 
P. Kretschmer of. cit. p. 199 n. 1, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1096 n. t. 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia pp. Ixix, 234 pl. 30, 2 (=my fig. 465) of s. ii A.D. 
XEVC BOSNIOC, Imhoof-Blumer Monn. gr. p. 401 no. 106a. SEVC BOSIOC. See 
also Rasche Lex. Num. i. 1580, xi. 1254, Head Hist. Num.? p. 676. 

4 Dion Chrys. ov. 33 p. 1 f. Reiske 7 twa érawoy bm avrdv (L. Dindorf has ka’ abrov) 
axpioecOar olduevor Kal Snudorov tuvov THs modews, mepl Te ILepoéws kai ‘Hpaxdéous kal Tod 
*Amd\Xwvos THs Tpralyns Kal wept xpnouav TaY yevouévwr, Kal Ws éore”"ENqves Kal’ Apyeto 
kal rt Bedrlous, Kal dpxnyovs éxeTe Hpwas Kal jucOéous, waANov dé Tiravas. 


The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 571 


which had to be cleansed in water drawn from the river Kydnos}. 
Whether trident and sword were Hellenic substitutes for a Hittite 
double axe, we can hardly determine. On coins of Tarsos Sandas 
carries a double axe, a sword, and a bow-case into the bargain”. In 
Phrygia, however, it is clear that Apollon Yarsezs had a double 
axe, and Phrygian coinage not infrequently arms Apollon with this 
primitive weapon. At Eumeneia he stands erect with a raven in 
his right hand and a double axe in his left (fig. 466)’, while a very 





Fig. 466. Fig. 467. 





similar type represents the local hero before a flaming altar with 
the double axe in his left hand and a Phidie in his right (fig. 467)*. 
The latter design, mzxus the altar, occurs also at Hierapolis (fig. 468)*. 
In the course of the second and third centuries A.D. the emperor 
appears to have taken the place of this Apolline hero, as may be 
gathered from sundry Hierapolitan specimens, which show him 
standing with a branch(?) or corn-ears and poppy (?) in one hand, 
the double axe in the other (figs. 461, 469)®. Finally, at Laodikeia 


1 Plout. de def. or. 41 mept dé rod Kvdvou kal rijs iepds Tod "Amréd\Nwvos Ev Tapo@ waxaipas, 
® pire Anuyrpre, cod Néyovros jKovouev, ws <oilre> 6 Kvdvos dAXov éxxabalper cldnpov < 77> 
éxewov ote tdwp dANo Thy udxatpav 7 éxetvo. I follow the text of W. R. Paton (Berolini 
1893), who adopts the corrections of J. N. Madvig and A. Emperius for ws 6 x. “aor 
éxxabalper clinpov (rov oldnpov Ambr. Pal.) éxetvov codd. « 

2 Supra i. 599 f. figs. 462—464. When St Paul, a citizen of Tarsos, bade his converts 
‘Put on the whole armour of God’ (Eph. 6. 11, cp. 6. 13) and take ‘the sword of the 
Spirit’ (2. 6. 17), was he thinking for a moment of the panoply worn by Sandas in his own 
native place? 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia pp. lxii, 217 pl. 27, 9 Nero, 218 nos. 4z—49 Domitian, 
Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 486 no. 1 Nero, Imhoof-Blumer Jon. gr. p. 400 no. 104 Domitian, 
id. Gr. Miinzen p. 211 f. no. 683 pl. 12, 21 Nero, zd. Aleinas. Miinzen i. 230 nos. 6 and 
7 pl. 7, 23 Domitian, Head Fist. num.? p. 674. I figurea specimen, from my collection, 
struck by Nero: EVMENEQQN IOVAIOS KA EQN APXIEPEVZASIAS. 

* Imhoof-Blumer XZeinas. Miinzen i. 229 no. 4 pl. 7, 22 (=my fig. 467) time of 
Alexander Severus (?). 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 245 pl. 31, 6 (=my fig. 468), Imhoof-Blumer 
Kleinas. Miinzen i. 239 no. 23. 

§ Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 231 no. 23 pl. 29, 8 (=my fig. 461), p. 235 no. 47 
pl. 30, 4 (=my fig. 469), Imhoof-Blumer AVeinas. Miinzen i. 237 no. 12. 

The last two coins have as odv. type the head of Zeus Tpdxos, who appears—again with 
an Apolline vev.—on a coin of Hierapolis referred to the Hadrianic age (Imhoof- Blumer 
Gr, Miinzen p. 214 f. no. 693 pl. 12, 22, cp. Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 233 pl. 30, 1). 


572 The double axe and Zeus Labrdéyndos 


on the Lykos gwasi-autonomous coppers issued by Pythes in the | 


time of Augustus exhibit a panther (?) shouldering a filleted double 
axe, the whole encircled by a bay-wreath (fig. 470). The device is 
Dionysiac rather than Apolline?. 

On the whole, I conclude that in Phrygia, as in Lydia, the 
ancestor or local hero inherited the double axe of the younger 
Hittite sky-god, and in Graeco-Roman times commonly acquired 
the traits of Apollon and Helios. The evidence from these adjacent 
countries prepares me, then, to accept as true Plutarch’s assertion 
that a particular Amazonian (Hittite) axe was a sacred heirloom of 
the Lydian kings. Nothing more probable. 

But what of his further statement that Arselis transferred 
the Lydian /déérys to the Carian Zeus Labradeiis*? In Karia 
the simple /d@érys occurs first on small gold pieces of the satrap 
Pixodaros (340—334 B.C.)4, then as a symbol on bronze coins 
issued at Mylasa(?) by Eupolemos, the general of Kassandros, in 
314—313 B.C.°, and subsequently as an obverse or reverse type 
on coppers of Alinda’, Euromos’, Mylasa (fig. 471)*, Orthosia’, 
Plarasa and Aphrodisias”, Sillyon(?)", as a symbol on coins of 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 287f. pl. 34, 14, Imhoof-Blumer Gr. AZinzen 
p- 218 nos. 712 pl. 12, 25 (=my fig. 470) and 712a. 


2 Imhoof-Blumer Joc. cit. says ‘Wolf oder Hund,’ but thinks that the die-sinker was 


trying to represent a wolf as emblem of the river Lykos. Rasche Lex. Mum. Suppl. i. 
1379 f., after D. Sestini Descriptio numorum veterum ex musets...Lipsiae 796 p. 467, 
had long since said ‘lupus.’ But B. V. Headin the Srzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Phrygia p. 287 
describes the creature as ‘Lynx or Panther (?)’ and in Azs¢. mum.” p. 679 as ‘Panther.’ 
Cp. the pantheress with ¢hjrsos on coins of Orthosia (Brzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. 
pr 149 f. pl. 23, 5'f.)s 

3 Supra p. 559 f. 

4 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 184 pl. 28, 12, Babelon A/onn. gr. vom. ii. 2. 
155 f. pl. go, 14 on gold twenty-fourths with odv. head of Apollon, laureate. 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 128 pl. 21, 11, W. M. Leake Mumismata 
Hellenica London 1856 Kings and Dynasts p. 20, Head Ast. num.” p. 624. See further 
W. Wroth ‘ Eupolemus’ in the Wm. Chron. Third Series 1891 xi. 135—139, F. Imhoof- 
Blumer ‘Zur griechischen und rémischen Miinzkunde’ in the Revue Sudsse de Numis- 
matique 1908 p. 260 n. 

6 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 11 no. ro early in s. ii B.C., with odv. young 
male head (Herakles ?), laureate, Head Hist. num.” p. 607. 

7 Tmhoof-Blumer JZoun. gr. p. 310 no. 54 with obv. head of Zeus, laureate. 

8 Brit. Mus. Cat, Coins Caria, etc. p. 129 pl. 21, 16 of s. ii B.c. and later, with rev. 
MYAA ZEQLN ornamented trident, Imhoof-Blumer A/onn. gr. p. 312 no. 70%, Head 
Hist. num.” p. 622. I figure a specimen from my collection. 

9 Head Hist. num.* p. 624 autonomous bronze of s. ii—i B.c. 

10 Brit. Mus Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 25 pl. 5, 1 f. after 166 B.c., with vez. cuirass on 
trophy-stand; Imhoof-Blumer A7ezzas. Miinzen i. 112 no. 1 pl. 4, 11 with odv. bust 
of Eros: 

U Tmhoof-Blumer Aveinas. Miinzen ii. 351 no. 8 pl. 12, 9 with odzv. bust of Zeus, 


remarking that the rev. legend CIA AVE may be a variant spelling of the ethnic form 


The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 573 


Euromos! and Stratonikeia*. At Mylasa the handle of the /éé7ys is 
encircled by a bay-wreath (fig. 472); at Euromos the whole axe is 
similarly treated*, At Aphrodisias (fig. 473)*° and at Herakleia Sal- 
bake it is bound with a fillet®*. Again, at Aphrodisias it has two 
filleted palm-branches laid across its handle (fig. 474)’. That the axe 
thus characterised as a sacred object was in Hellenic times associated 





Fig. 470. Fig. 471. Fig. 473. Fig. 474. 


with Zeus appears, not only from a unique bronze coin of Plarasa 
(s. iii or ii B.C.), which has on the one side a head of Zeus long-haired 
and laureate, on the other an eagle standing on a double axe’, but 
also from numerous Carian issues, which show the god grasping his 
traditional weapon. On silver pieces struck by the satraps Heka- 
tomnos (395—377 B.C.)°, Maussollos (377—353 B.C.)", Idrieus (35 1— 


ZvANoy in Kibyratis rather than that from ZiAAvos in Pamphylia: ‘Das Doppelbeil ist 
weder als pamphylisches noch als pisidisches Miinzbild bekannt.’ 

1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 99 pl. 17, 5 of s. i B.C. 

2 Imhoof-Blumer Monn. gr. p. 315 no. 79, id. Kleinas. Miinzen i. 153 no. 8n. with 
magistrate’s name ’Apioréas. 

3 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 129 pl. 21, 17 of imperial times, with odz. trotting 
horse. I figure an example in the Leake collection (W. M. Leake Wamzsmata Hellenica 
Suppl. London 1859 Asia p. 70). 

4 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 99 pl. 17, 3 early in s. ii B.C., with odv. head of 
Zeus, laureate, Head Hist. num.? p. 617. 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 38 no. 84 of imperial times, with ov. humped 
bull lowering its head; p. 39 pl. 7, 2 (=my fig. 473) Augustus. 

8 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 116 pl. 19, 10 of imperial times, with odv. a 
cornu copiae containing bunches of grapes etc., between two corn-ears, Imhoof-Blumer 
Kleinas. Miinzen i. 132 no. 3, Head Hist. num.” p. 620. 

7 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 28 pl. 5, 10 (=my fig. 474) of s.iB.C., with 
obv. head of Aphrodite wearing wreath, Hznter Cat. Cotns ii. 420 no. 1, Imhoof-Blumer 
Monn. gr. p. 305 no. 19, Head Hist. num.” p. 609. 

8 Imhoof-Blumer Gr. MZiinzen p. 139 no. 412. 

® Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 180 pl. 28, 1, Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 2. 
141 f. pl. 89, 15 (cp. 2. 141 f. pl. 89, 16) silver tetradrachms, with rev. EKATOM lion 
standing to right; F. Imhoof-Blumer ‘Zur griechischen und rémischen Miinzkunde’ in 
the Revue Suasse de Numismatique 1908 pl. 5, 17 silver tetradrachm, vev. Persian king 
standing, drawing bow. Head Azst. num.” p. 629. 

10 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 181 pl. 28, 2 and 3 (=my fig. 475), Hunter 
Cat. Coins ii. 430 pl. 54, 15, Babelon of. c7?. ii. 2. 147 ff. pl. go, 2—6 silver tetradrachms, 
with oév. head of Apollon facing, laureate; Brzt. Mus. Cat. Cos Caria, etc., p. 182 
pl. 28, 4, Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 430 no. 3f., Babelon of. cit. ii. 2. 149 f. pl. 90, 7 silver 
drachms, with similar types. Head Hist. num.? p. 629. 


574 The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 


344 B.C.)!, on silver and gold by Pixodaros (340—334 B.C.)%, and 
on silver by Rhoontopates (334—333 B.C.)* we see a Zeus, bearded 
and laureate, clad in chztén and himdtion, who holds a double axe 
in his right hand, a long sceptre in his left (fig. 475). Imperial 
coins of Mylasa in silver (fig. 476)4 and bronze (figs. 477, 478)* show 
Zeus facing us with a #dlathos on his head, a double axe in his 





Fig. 475. Fig. 477- 


right hand, and a spear in his left—clearly a cult-statue, for the 
silver piece places him on a pedestal®, and other bronze pieces repre- 
sent him erect in his temple, wearing a pectoral and agrendn or 
sacred net-work? and linked to the ground® by means of fillets 
(fig. 479)*. At Euromos bronze coins of the first century B.C. have 
for reverse type a very similar figure standing between the-star- 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 183 pl. 28, 5, Babelon of. cit. ii. 2. 151 Ff. 
pl. go, 8 silver tetradrachms, with odv. head of Apollon facing, laureate; Azz. Mus. Cat. 
Corns Caria, etc. p. 183 pl. 28, 6, Babelon of. cét. ii. 2. 151 f. pl. go, 9 silver didrachms, 
with similar types; Byzt. Aus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 183 pl. 28, 7, Babelon of. cit. ii. 
2. 151 ff. pl. go, 10 silver drachms, with similar types. Head Hist. num.* p. 629. 

2 Babelon of. céz. ii. 2. 155 f. pl. go, 18 silver tetradrachm, with similar types; Brit. 
Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 185 pl. 28, 13, Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 430 no. 1, Babelon 
op. cit. ii. 2. 155 f. pl. go, 19 f. and pl. gt, 1 silver didrachms, with similar types; Brz¢. 
Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 185 pl. 28, 14, Hunter Cat. Cozns ii. 431 no. 2 f., Babelon 
op. cit. li. 2. 155 f. pl. gt, 2 silver drachms, with similar types. 

Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 184 pl. 28, 9, Babelon of. cz¢. il. 2. 153 ff. pl. go, 
12 and 15 gold hemistatera, with obv. head of Apollon to right, laureate; Brit. Aus. Cat. 
Coins Caria, etc. p. 184 pl. 28, 10, Babelon of. cz¢. i. 2. 155 f. pl. go, 16 f. gold Aéktaz, 
with similar types; Brzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 184 pl. 28, 11, Babelon of. ctt. 
il. 2. 155 f. pl. go, 13 gold hemz¢hek¢a, with similar types. Head Hist. num. p. 630. 

3 Babelon of. cét. ii. 2. 157 ff. pl. g1, 4 f. silver tetradrachms, with similar types. 
Head H2st. num.? p. 630. 

4 Imhoof-Blumer A7Zeinas. Miinzen i. 144 no. 2 Caligula (?), Head Azst. num.* p. 622; 
W. M. Leake Mumsmata Hellenica London 1856 Asiatic Greece p. 84 (=my fig. 476) 
Hadrian. 

> W. M. Leake af. czt. Suppl. London 1859 Asia p. 70 (=my fig. 477) Septimius 
Severus, Imhoof-Blumer A7Zecnas. Miinzen i. 146 no. 11 Elagabalos. Fig. 478 is from a 
specimen, in my collection, struck by Caracalla. 

§ Imhoof-Blumer A7einas. Miinzen i. 144 no. 2 ‘auf Postament.’ 

7 Supra i. 360, ii. 167, 192. 8 Supra p. 408 n. o. 

® Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 133 pl. 22, 5 (=my fig. 479) Geta, Hunter Cat. 
Coins ii. 425 no. 2 f. 


The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 575 


crowned caps of the Dioskouroi (fig. 480)". Early imperial coppers 
of the same town omit the caps?, but sometimes give the cult-statue 
in more detail together with an eagle (fig. 481)* or a stag’, At 
Keramos a copper of Antoninus Pius shows a long-haired god, 
apparently nude (?), standing to the right with a double axe in his 





right hand and a tall sceptre or spear in his left: behind him is a 
lion (fig. 482)°. A later variant, struck by Commodus, has the same 
god, clad in a short chztén, with the axe in his left hand, the sceptre 
or spear in his right, and behind him an animal of very doubtful 
species—possibly a lioness or panther (fig. 483)°. Another copper 


‘ Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 99 pl. 17, 4 (=my fig. 480) EVP. M[EQN] 
with odv. youthful head of Dionysos, 5 067. EVPQ.M EQLN and TIOAE (magistrate’s 
name) Stag standing to right with /dérys in front of it (symbol). 

* Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 100 pl. 17, 6. 

* Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. too pl. 17, 8 (=my fig. 481) Augustus and Livia. 

* Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. too no. 6, of early imperial times, with rev. 
EY POMEQN eagle on thunderbolt. 

® J. Friedlaender in the Zeztschr. f. Num. 1875 ii. 109 f. fig. (=my fig. 482). The 
inscription, as B. V. Head in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 78 n.* points out, 
‘is almost certainly wrong.’ 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 78 pl. 12, 13 (=my fig. 483): ‘an animal re- 
sembling a goat recumbent with fore-foot raised’...‘The animal at the feet of the god on 
this coin resembles a goat or stag.’ 


576 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


of Commodus shows him, again clothed in a short chztén and accom- 
panied by a lion, confronting a Zeus of more ordinary aspect (with 
himdtion, tall sceptre, and eagle): both deities lay hold of the same 
vertical spear (fig. 484)*. 

Now Hekatomnos, who first introduced the figure of the axe- 
bearing Zeus on the coinage of Karia, hailed from Mylasa, of which 
town he and his forebears were regarded as benefactors. Hekatom- 
nos was, in fact, king of Mylasa before he became satrap of Karia; 
and it is highly probable that the Zeus whose effigy he struck on 
the Carian tetradrachms was but an ennobled form of the Zeus 





Fig. 484. Fig. 485. 


whose old cult-image appears on the mintage of Mylasa. And who 
was he? Fortunately Strabon’ has preserved for us a careful account 
of the local cults: 


‘The Mylasians have two sanctuaries of Zeus, one of Zeus Osogd, as they 
call him, the other of Zeus Labyvandenés. The former is inthe city. Labranda is 
a village on the mountain, where the pass runs over from Alabanda to Mylasa, at 
some distance from the city. Here there is an ancient temple and a xéanon of 
Zeus Strdtios, who is honoured by the neighbourhood in general and by Mylasa 
in particular. A paved way some sixty furlongs in length leads to the city ; it is 
called the Sacred Road and is used for processions of the victims. The most 


1 J. Friedlaender in the Zeztschr. f. Num. 1875 ii. t1of. fig. (=my fig. 484). 

2 Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no. 2691 ¢, 6 ff.= Lebas—Waddington Asie Mineure no. 377, 6 ff. 
= Michel Recueil ad’ Inscr. gr. no. 471, 1, 6 ff.=F. Bechtel in Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dzad.- 
Inschr. iii. 2. 759 f. no. 5753 a, 6 ff.=Dittenberger Sy//. inscr. Gr.® no. 167, 6 ff. (in a 
Mylasian decree of 367—366 B.c., found at Ae/asso and now in the Louvre) é7eBot\evce 
Mavocwdw, dvTe evepyérnt | THs wédews THS MuAacéwy kal a’rau kal T&e marpl | ‘Exa- 
Touvw Kal Tots mpoydvas Tots ToUTWY, K.T.A., 26. 20 ff. (in a decree of 361—360 B.C.) Tovs 
Tle\déuw | ratdas, rapavounoayras és tay elxdva | Thy ‘Exarouyw, dvdpds moda kal ayaba 
Tomoav|ros Thu rod THu Mvdracéwy Kal Noyar Kal Epywr, | dduket Kal Ta lepa avabjpara 
kai Thu wow | Kal Tovs evepyéras THs ToAEwS* K.T.A., 26. 33 ff. (in a decree of 355—354 B.C.) 
Mavira rob | ILaxriw émiBouvkedcavros Mavoow\duwr Tat ‘“Exarourw | év r&e lepSe rod Ards 
Tod AauBpatvdou, Avoins éviav|otns Kal mavynypios éovons, Kal MavoowdXdov pev | cwOévros 
ovv Tat Adi, K.T.Xd. 


3 Strab. 659. 


The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 577 


distinguished citizens are priests for life. These sanctuaries, then, are specially 
attached to the city. But there is a third sanctuary of Zeus Kdrios, common to 
all the Carians, including the Lydians and the Mysians as members of the 
same family. It is recorded that Mylasa in former times was a mere village, the 
ancestral home and palace of the Carians belonging to Hekatomnos.’ 


From this it appears that the Mylasians were devoted on the one 
hand to Zeus Osogéa, on the other to Zeus Szratios or Labrandends. 
The two deities stand face to face on a bronze coin of Mylasa struck 
by Caracalla and Geta (fig. 485). Zeus Osogéa, clad in chitén and 
himdtion, rests with his right hand on a trident and holds an eagle 
in his left?, while Zeus S¢rdtios or Labrandends has a kalathos on his 
head, a double axe in his right hand, and a spear in his left. Their 





joint recognition is implied by the curious combination of trident 
with double axe found as a symbol on Alexandrine tetradrachms 
issued at Mylasa* and as a reverse type on Mylasian coppers of 
S. ii. B.C. and later (figs. 486, 487)*. In imperial times the compound 
weapon is based on acrab and surrounded by a bay-wreath (fig. 488)*. 
The fusion of Zeus Osogéa with Zeus Sirdétios is complete on a unique 
copper of Mylasa, struck by Antoninus Pius, which passed with the 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat, Coins Caria, etc. p. 133 no. 37. My fig. 485 is from a cast of this 
specimen. 

2 Zeus Osogda, with trident, eagle, and crab, is seen on silver pieces issued by Hadrian 
at Mylasa (M. Pinder ‘ Uber die Cistophoren und iiber die kaiserlichen Silbermedaillons 
der romischen Provinz Asia’ in the 40h. d. berl. Akad. 1855 Phil.-hist. Classe p. 627 
pl. 7, 7 and 8=my figs. 489 and 490, Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” ii. 132 no. 302 fig. and 
no. 303, J. Hirsch Azctzons-Catalog Miinchen 1907 xviii. to5 no. 1883 pl. 26). A 
similar figure of Zeus Osogéa, with trident and eagle, in a tetrastyle temple occurs on 
coppers of Mylasa struck by Septimius Severus (A7zt. Mus. Cat. Cots Caria, etc. p. 132 
no. 31 f.). 

3 L. Miller Memismatique d’ Alexandre le Grand Copenhague 1855 pl. 16 nos. 1141— 
1143, Head Hist. num.” p. 622. 

4 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 128 pl. 21, 13, Imhoof-Blumer Aonn. gr. 
p- 312 no. 70, Head Hist. num.” p. 622. I figure a specimen in my possession (fig. 486) 
and ‘another from the Leake collection (W. M. Leake Mzmismata Hellenica London 
1856 Asiatic Greece p. 84). 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 131 no. 24 Augustus (handle only encircled by 
wreath), p. 132 pl. 22, 3 Septimius Severus. I figure a specimen, from my collection, 
struck by Septimius Severus. 


ro 1 37 


578 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


Fox collection into the Berlin cabinet (fig. 491)". The god confront- 





Fig. 489. Fig. 490. Fig. 491. 


ing us is marked as Zeus by his eagle and globe (?)?, as Osogéa by 
his crab, as S¢rdtzos by his spear and shield. 

A few further facts concerning both deities can be gleaned from 
epigraphic or literary sources*. Inscriptions‘, supported by a passage 


1C, R. Fox Engravings of unpublished or rare Greek coins Part ii Asia and Africa 
London 1862 p. 18 no. 106 pl. 5, 106 (=my fig. 491). 

2-C. R. Fox Joc. cit. says: ‘a bird on a pedestal.’ But T. Schreiber Bemerkungen zur 
Gauverfassung Kariens, Kletnere Beitrige zur Geschichte von Dozenten der Leipziger 
Hochschule Leipzig 1894 (cited by W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. MZyth, iii. 1229) with 
more probability observes: ‘als Zeus charakterisiert durch Adler und Weltkugel.’ 

3 These are conveniently arranged by J. Schaefer De Jove pe Cares culto (Disserta- 
tiones philologicae Halenses xx. 4) Halis Saxonum 1912 p. 347 ff. (‘Iupiter Labrayndus’), 
p. 387 ff. (‘lupiter Osogoa’) and discussed by O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. A/yth. ii. 1776— 
1778 (‘ Labrandeus,’ ‘ Labrandos’) and W. Drexler 2é. ii. 1815—1818 (‘ Lambraundos’), 
iii. 1224—1230 (‘Osogoa’). Other references will be given below. 

4 J. Schaefer of. cit. p. 388 ff. prints the following in chronological sequence : 

(1) G. Doublet-—G. Deschamps in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1890 xiv. 618 ff. no. 17 
(a fragmentary decree of c. 200 B.C., whereby a Cretan town recognises the dovAla of 
the temple at Mylasa), col. ii, 11 ff. mapa dé ; adray (sc. the Mylasians) és te 7@ Zavorro- 
Te[Ldavos kai] | 7T@ AaBpatydw cal és Ta HE” [-—-] (gaezd?). 

(2) Lebas—Waddington Asie AZineure no. 362, 1 ff. [AolUKuos Ted[--+++++++- , | [- -Jevos 
dls te[parevoas Avds] | [ OcloyS Zavo[roredavos]. 

(3) A. Hauvette-Besnault—M. Dubois in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1881 v. 98 ff. no. 2 
=Michel Recueil d*Jnscr. gr. no. 1204 (on a fluted column from the temple-precinct, 
5. 1 B.C.) Diupwayxos | T. TAwrlov | Duupudxou vids, | iepeds Ards OcolyGa Ards Znvolroce:- 
dé&vos. | TdAXcs “Tepoxdéous Tob ‘Ie|poxhéous orepaynpoprycas | Kal iepatetoas Tod re Acs | 
Tod ‘Ocoy® Kal rod Avds rod | AaBpatydov kal dyopavo|ujoas kal ) yuvh atrod Mn\vias 
Paidpov cal of viol avray | ‘Iepoxdfs kal Paidpos avéPn|xav rods é&Hs klovas dxTw | éx Tov 
idiwy IrapxovTww | Ta Aut rat ’Ocoyau. 

(4) W. Judeich in the A/h. Mitth. 1890 xv. 260 no. 13 (on a fluted column from the 
temple-precinct, s. i B.C.) Dvumayxos | Tatov Wdwrilov Duupdyxou | vids, iepeds | Ards’ OcoyS 
Zn|\vorocedG|vos. 

(5) A. Hauvette-Besnault—M. Dubois in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1881 v. 100 no. 3 
(on a fluted column from the temple-precinct, s. i B.C.) “Emirvyxdavwv | Apaxovtiéov | 
Exaraios, 6 kal | ‘Exardpuvws, iepe|ds Awds "Ocoy&\a Avos Znvoro|cedaévos. 

(6) Zid. 2b. 188t v. 100 f. no. 4 (on a fluted column from the temple-precinct, s. i B.C.) 
DT. "Iovd\uos, | Kopyndig, | Ivpoos | Aidarés, | iepeds Atlds "OcoyG|a Atos Zn|vorocet|SGvos. 

(7) Zid. 2. 1881 v. tor no. 5 (on a fluted column from the temple-precinct, s. i B.C.) 
TB. KA. Adpydcos | ‘Tépwr, lepeds | Ards ’Ocoyaa | Ards Znvo|rocedavos. 


The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 579 


(8) Lebas—Waddington Aste Mineure no. 345 (c. s.i B.C.) [Tar ]pox[Né]ou[s](s) 7L00] | 
[K]ad\cobévou, ie[péws] | [A]ids "Ocoyd, riv [eikdva] | [“Exard]uvus, ieped[s Ads ’Ocoya(?),] | 
[avé@nclev, pirooro[pyias évexer] | [ris els Elaurdv, A[et "Ocoyax (?)]. 

(9) Lebas—Waddington Ase Mineure no. 359 (of early ‘imperial date) [iepeds Ards 
’O]coyA[a (?) Acds (?) Zn]|[voroceddv jos Geob [---] | [----- Z]eBacrod[—--] | [------ Jou 


(10) Lebas—Waddington Asie Mineurve no. 334 (from a decree of Olymos and 
Labranda, s. i B.c.), 2 Tod Avds rod "Oooy. Cp. W. Judeich in the Ath. AZitth. 1889 
xiv. 388. 

(11) Lebas—Waddington Asze Mineure no. 360 (fragment of a decree, s. i A.D.), 5 
[ro]é Ads "Ocoy® of kal ra [——-] (so W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 1225 for 
Waddington’s reading Avs ’Ocoywou, which would imply either a nominative ’Ocoyos 
(Preller—Robert Gr. Myth. i. 580 n. 2) or an indeclinable appellative (cp. Men Kdpouv, 
Men Tidmov)). 

(12) Lebas—Waddington Asze Minewre no. 398 (from an inscription of s.i B.C. or 
A.D.), 29 f. (a decree of Mylasa is to be written up) [év] | r&e ife]pau [---++++- ] Acofs 
Oo loy kara Tov vomov. 

(13) Lebas—Waddington Asie AZineure no. 400 (from a decree, s. i A.D.), 3 [--- 
Awos Ocoy]® Swripos cat Hvepyérov ris wodews. For Evepyérns as a divine title see 
O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa eal-Evc. vi. 978. It is, however, possible that we should 
restore [iepéws Avos “Ocoy]&, cwrjpos kal evepyérou THs modews. 

(14) E. Hula—E. Szanto ‘Bericht iiber eine Reise in Karien’ in the Svtzungsber. d. 
kais. Akad. d. Wiss. in Wien Phil.-hist. Classe 1895 cxxxii. 2. 17 no. 11 (the dedication 
of a building, s.iA.D. [Ze]Bacrots Apiotwpévns Zkvuvou MGrpis 6 kat ‘TooddAdwpos [--—] | 
[---] kai crepaynpéopos ai iepeds Ards "Ocoy& eianyaryev [——-]. 

(15) G. Cousin—C. Diehl in the wi. Corr. Hell. 1888 xii. 12 ff. no. 3 (from an 
inscription of s. i A.D.), 6 [epeds Tod] Aids Tod "Ocoyae dre[---]. 

(16) Lebas—Waddington Asze Mineure no. 358 (rpooxuvjpara of visiting judges or 
arbitrators—on whom see T. Thalheim in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Zuc. v. 570 f.—, in the 
time of Domitian), a éml dv@uvmarov Kaicevviouv Iairov | x.7.d., 0 vicn | Ad | ’Ocoye with 
wreath and palm-branch, c évedqjunoar dé o[tde] | él dpxrepéws Mevav[dpov rod Pi]Aapyipou, 
(wreath) crepaynpopov 5€ M[evir]|zrov rod Hipnvatov, x.7.d., Umnperovvtwv Iam[tiov], Myva, 
Anuolyévov 1. Ad mapédpov vreép r[--]. Le Bas read Mnva, Anuo[vixou, ‘Epuolyévou [rq] 
Au, wapédpou  Trrepri[uou ?]. 

J. Schaefer of. cit. p. 390 f. gives as a separate series the decrees of the tribe ’O7wp- 
xovdéwy relating to this deity: 

(1) Corp. inser. Gr. ii no. 2693 f= Lebas—Waddington Aste Mineure no. 414 (this 
and the three following inscriptions, v7z. (2), (3), (4), date from s.i B.c. and deal with 
the sale or lease of lands belonging to the temple. Cp. W. Judeich in the Ath. MMtth. 
1889 xiv. 373 ff.), 8 f. (so-and-so purchased the estates) ras otoas iepds Ards ’Ocoya, [ras] 
(so Schaefer: Waddington had supposed ’Ocoyw[ov]) ctv rots évo[tor b€évdpect] k.7.2. 

(2) Lebas—Waddington Asie Mineure no. 415 (deals with the éu8aovs or purchaser’s 
entrance upon the divine estates), 6 ff. els Tas yéas Tas év TO ’OuBiay@ rediw K.T.d.|, els 
Tas otvoas iepas Ads *Oooya, ds kal éxrnuatwovnkay 7H Adi ’OTwpkor|[déwy, adv Tots évotor 
dévdpect maar kal dumédos Kal els Ta Eroikia Kal els Ta olkdmeda K.T.X. 

(3) G. Cousin in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1898 xxii. 380 ff. no. 21, col. 1, 12 f. mapa rH 
yn TH otton lepae Avds ’Oco| [ye]. 

(4) A. Hauvette-Besnault—M. Dubois in the Aull. Corr. Hell. 1881 v. 107 ff. A, 
13 ff. [yevoué]|yns b€ THs YAS TV mpoyeypaumevay Tols KTnuaTwvals e[is TO TOU BEod (sc. 
Ads ‘Ocoy@) dvoua, picOwoerar TA mpoye]|ypauméva Tavra a’Tos Opacéas Tapa Tay Tamar 
TAs [pudys Kara xpnuaticudry ev TH adrw xpovq] | K.T.A. 

(5) Lebas—Waddington Aste Mineure no. 411 (fragmentary decree of s. i B.C.), 5 
ayave Tat cuvTehoupévax Aft] ’Ooloy@.—--] (so Schaefer, after Le Bas, for A. OX 
‘ perincerte’). 

(6) Lebas—Waddington Asze Minewre no. 406 (honorary inscription of s. i B.C.), 12 


374 


580 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


of Pausanias? lead us to conclude that the native name of the former 
Zeus was spelled Osogéa, an indeclinable appellation which has the 
variants Osogéd (genitive) and Osogéz (genitive’, dative). The meaning 
of the epithet is quite unknown’. The god’s temple was situated to 
the west of Mylasa, at the foot of the scarped mountain, which 
dominates the town. Traces of the precinct are still to be seent—a 
wall of polygonal masonry set against the mountain-side and turned 
towards the east, with a row of fourteen unfluted columns at right 
angles to it. Five fluted columns, bearing dedicatory inscriptions 
by priests of Zeus Osogéa’*, have been recovered from the immediate 
neighbourhood. The practice of thus dedicating temple-columns 
recurs at Euromos® and was not unfrequent in Asia Minor’. An 
allusion to it may be detected in the familiar words of the New 
Testament: ‘He that overcometh, I will make him a pillar in the 
temple of my God, and he shall go out thence no more: and I will 
write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of 
my God,...and mine own new name®. Zeus Osogéa is once at least 
identified® with the Zeus Oftorkondéon of sundry late inscriptions”. 


[-—]w ouvredoumévwy Tt Add x.7.. (Le Bas restored trav dyavav r]Gv cvvTedoupéevwr 
Tae Ait). 

(7) Lebas—Waddington Asie Mineure no. 408= Michel Recuezl a’L[nuscr. gr. no. 473 
(honorary decree, referred by Michel to s. ii B.c., by Schaefer to 5.1 A.D.), 14 f. dvadeiwat 
dé rh eixdva (sc. of Atuvatos OUNddov) év TH le|[p@ ToD Atos Tod] "OcoyG k.T.Xr. 

1 Paus. 8. 10. 4 (2z/ra p. 581), where ’Ocoyéa is A. Boeckh’s correction of the manu- 
script reading ’Oy@a (éywa Lb. éyoa Pa. dyda Pc. éyava La.). 

2 Supra p. 579 n. o no. (15). 

3 Fora string of guesses see W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 1225 f., E. Assmann 
in Philologus 1908 \xvii. 188 f., and zfra § 3 (c) iil. 

4 P. Le Bas et W. H. Waddington Voyage archéologique en Gréce et en Asie Mineure 
pendant 1843 et 1844 Itinéraire pl. 63—64= Lebas—Reinach Voyage Arch. p. 47 pl. 63— 
64, fig. ii, A. Hauvette-Besnault—M. Dubois ‘ Antiquités de Mylasa’ in the Bzd/. Corr. 
ffeil. 1881 v. 98. 

5 Supra p. 578 n. 4 nos. (3)—(7). 

8 Corp. inscr. Gr. ii nos. 2713, = a Lebas—Waddington Aste AZineure nos. 313, 
314—318. 

7 A well-known example is that of the columns dedicated by Kroisos in the sixth- 
century Artemision at Ephesos (Hdt. 1. 92, E. L. Hicks The Collection of Ancient Greek 
Inscriptions in the British Museum Oxford 1890 iii. 2. 173 no. 518 a—e, D. G. Hogarth 
Excavations at Ephesus London 1908 pp. 15, 294f.) and by others in the fourth-century 
temple on the same site (Aristot. ceconom. 2. 2. 1349 a 9 ff., E. L. Hicks of. cét. ill. 2. 
173 ff. no. 519 a—z with the examples, ancient and mediaeval, cited by Canon Hicks 
ad loc.). 

® Rev... 12. 9 Supra p. 579 n. o no. (2) des. 

10 J. Schaefer of. cz¢. p. 394 quotes the following decrees of the tribe “Orwprovdéwy : 

(1) Corp. inser. Gr, ii no. 2693 c=Lebas—Waddington Asze Mineure no. 403 (of 
5.1 B.C.), 15 f. dvaypdwar 6€ rdde TO Walgiopa els orHAnv NOH Kal] | [oTHo]ar &v Tax 
i[ep&e Tod Atos OT wpxovd[éw|v. 

(2) Lebas—Waddington Aste AZineure no. 405, 14 f. avaypdar 6é kai Tdd€ TO WHdiowa 
év THe TepiBdrox TA[t] | [77s] Pvd[A]s "OTwpKovdéwv. 


The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 581 


Hence it has been inferred that the precinct belonged to the Mylasian 
tribe Otorkondeis, who took Zeus Osogéa as their patron deity’. 
The Greeks in general regarded him as a blend of Zeus with Poseidon. 
Pausanias, @ propos of the sanctuary of Poseidon H7ppzos near Man- 
tineia, observes: 


‘There is an ancient legend that a wave of the sea appears in this sanctuary. 
The Athenians tell a similar story of the wave on the Acropolis, and the Carians 
who dwell in Mylasa tell a like tale of the sanctuary of the god whom in their 
own tongue they call Osogoa. Now the sea at Phalerum is just twenty furlongs 
distant from Athens; and similarly at Mylasa the port is eighty furlongs from 
the city. But Mantinea is farther than either of them from the sea ; therefore in 
ascending so far the sea shows forth most manifestly the will of the god? 


A fragment of Theophrastos’ treatise Ox Waters, preserved by 
Athenaios’, says: 


‘Not only do bitter waters change their nature, but salt water as well, and so 
do whole rivers, as for example that on Kithairon, beside which is the sanctuary 
of Zeus, < and that in Karia, beside which is the sanctuary >* of Poseidon. 
The reason is that many thunderbolts fall in the locality.’ 


(3) Lebas—Waddington Asie Mineure no. 413 (of s.i B.C.) 4, 2 f. mepiBo[A]o[— ——] | 
’Orwpxovbéu[v — ——]. ; 

(4) A. Fontrier in the Bud/. Corr. Hell. 1895 xix. 558 f. no. 1= Ath. Mitth. 1896 xxi. 
119 f. (of s. i B.C.), 16 advaypawdrwoar dé of Tamlar ev Ta iepa& ’O7T[w]pxové[éwr] | «.7.A. 

(5) E. Hula—tE. Szanto in the Svtzengsber. d. khais. Akad. ad. Wiss. in Wien Phil.-hist. 
Classe 1895 cxxxii. 2. 13 no. 3=G. Cousin in the Aull. Corr. Hell. 1898 xxii. 386 no. 34 
(laudation of Zwrnpixas Iapatrios), 9 f. [€]k macav rwHv Ovordv, av ) pudy ouvTene? | [ev 
T@ lep]@ Tod Ards ’OTwpkxovdéwr. 

J. Schaefer of. cz¢. p. 394 f. collects also the following inscriptions, of s. i B.c., relating 
to the purchase of sacred lands: 

(1) A. Hauvette-Besnault—M. Dubois in the Auzd/. Corr. Hell. 1881 v. 107 ff. 
no. 11 C, 16 f. dvaypawdrwoav dé év Tax ep Tot Avos OTwpkovdéwy rév Te Tis avis Kal 
Ths euBdcews | kal THS micAwocews XpnuaTicmor. 

(2) G. Cousin—C. Diehl in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1888 xii. 21 ff. no. 8, 7 f. [6 detva 
Tod detvos kal 6 detva Tod Seivos Mavvy]irar rau Act r&e "Orwpkovdéllwy exrnuatovynkay mapa 
Opacéou k.7.X. ] 

(3) Zid. 7. 1888 xii. 25 ff. no. 9, 14 f. évavriov uapripwr rev dudpwv awd Tv pudert- 
KGv ye@[v] Awos ’O\rwpxovdéwy avrod Opacéov x.7.d., 17 f. Kal dro Tov puderiKa[y y]eav 
Avds | Orwpxovbéwr [a]iro[6 O]pacéou x.T.r. 

(4) E. Hula—E. Szanto in the Szzungsber. d. kais. Akad. d. Wiss. in Wien Phil.-hist. 
Classe 1895 cxxxii. 2. 16 f. no. 10, 3 [--—] A[c]os "OTwpxovdéwv adrod Opacéou k.7.d. 

(5) W. Judeich in the Ath. Mitth. 1890 xv. 272 ff. no. 21 B, 2f. [a}yopacOévra re 
Aud r&t ’Orwpkovdéwy rapa *Idcoves tod Acovuciov ra bvra] | év TH "Op Bravm media éy 
KworoBadw x.T.X. 

1 G. Cousin—C. Diehl in the Bull. Corr. Hell, 1888 xii. 14, J. Schaefer of. cit. 
p- 395 f. 

2 Paus. 8. ro. 4 trans. Sir J. G. Frazer. 

Theophr. frag. 159 Wimmer af. Athen. 42 A. 

+ J. Dalechamps in 1583 restored the missing words in Latin from Plin. zat. hast. 31. 
54 et in Caria, ubi Neptuni templum est, amnis, qui fuerat ante dulcis, mutatus in salem 
est. The Greek text kaa rév év KifaipOvi, map’ @ Znvds, <Kal Tov év Kapila, rap’ o> 
Iloce:davos iepov éorw is due to I. Casaubon (1597). The passage thus cured has been 
injured again by a modern translator, C. D. Yonge, who renders év Kapig, ‘in Cairo’!! 


o b 


582 The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 


And an extract from Machon the Alexandrine comedian, likewise 
cited by Athenaios’, tells an anecdote which emphasises the dual 
aspect of the Mylasian deity: 


Once on a time the flute-player Dorion 

Came to Mylasa, but could find no lodging, 
So sat him down within a certain prec.nct 
That chanced to be before the city-gates, 
There saw the temple-sweeper sacrificing. 

‘l’ the name,’ quoth he, ‘of Athena and the gods, 
Tell me, my friend, whose temple this may be.’ 
‘Zenoposeidon’s, sir!’ the man replied. 

Then Dorion : ‘And how could anybody 
Expect a room for one here, where they say 
The very gods are lodging two by two!’ 


The name Zenoposezdén, which thus goes back to the time of Machon 
(s. iii B.C.), if not to that of Dorion (s. iv B.C.)?, appears in the local 
inscriptions from ¢. 200 B.C. onwards’, and is not altogether forgotten 
by the Byzantine scholarship of the twelfth century’. Concerning 
the ritual of the god we know little or nothing. But P. Le Bas points 
out that the Taurophonia, mentioned in a decree of the Otorkondeis 
as the occasion of a solemn traditional assembly, were perhaps cele- 
brated on his behalf’. 

The fact that the Carians recognised a Zeus-like Poseidon or a 
Poseidon-like Zeus is to me at least of considerable interest. For I 
have long contended that the Hellenic Poseidon himself was originally 
but a specialised form of Zeus. In 1903%, accepting with some modi- 
fication the views of H. L. Ahrens’ and W. Sonne, I took the name 


1 Machon ag. Athen. 337 C—D. 2 Cp. Athen. 435 B—c. 

3 Supra p. 578 n. 4 no. (1) ff. 

4 Eustath. 27 //. p. 763, 50f. (on Z/. 9. 457 Zevs te xaraxOdvios x.7.d.) bte Leds kal 
évraida karaxOdvios 6 "Acdns, ws édv Tis trot anp vmdyeos. ef 0€ KaTa Tadatay icropiay 
mepl Twa Kapixdyv rorauov Znvos ocedGvos jv iepdv, i600 Td Leds row Zhv Kowdv ovoua 
Atds Kal IlovevdGvos kal “Acdov rv added PGr. 

> Lebas—Waddington Asie Mineure no. 404 (of s. i B.C.), 1 ff. [émt] credlavnpdpou 
“Lepox\elous] Tod Meviamou, unvos [+++++++ +++ ], éxxAnoias kupla[s yevouévns ev T]|aupopoviors 
KaTa Ta waTpia, TUXHL THe ayaA[e, els wlcOwow] edwKkev H Pvdr7y 7H OTwp[Kovdéwr, x.7.X.]. 
Lebas ad doc. cp. the bull-sports of Karyanda, at no great distance from Mylasa (Lebas— 
Waddington Asie Mineure no. 499, 5 ff. wera 5€ Tatra yevouevos aro Tis PudAs|Tavpaderns 
ov uLdvov THv TOD Oeod éoprny me]\yadoudpws kal dilaydbws cuverédecev, AXA Kal pos Tots 
[éx Tov THs Pvdjs wéArov]|ow aPeOjvar bw avrov Kal Gdous Ex THs idlas ovclas apjKev 
tLavpous mdelovas*] | mpds 6€ TovTos mayTed@s BovNOmevos Pilayabew apjKev [Talpov Kad- 
Nuorov eis] | Kuviy.ov, Ta Te Kpéara amd Tod épe(A)iCouévou Tavpou diévemev tlots Pudéras, 
dedomé wv yepGv Tai ard Tis Pudjs leper: K.T.A.). 

8 Class. Rev. 1903 xvii. 175 f. 

7 H. L. Ahrens ‘Ueber den Namen des Poseidon’ in Philologus 1866 xxiii. 1 ff., 
193 ff.=2d. Klecne Schriften Hannover 1891 i. 390 ff. 

8 W. Sonne ‘ Helios Poseidon’ in the Zettschrift ftir vergleichende Sprachforschung 
1861 x. 181 ff. See also Gilbert Gr. Gétterl. p. 168 f.: ‘Der Name Poseidon ist nemlich 


The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 583 


Poteidén, Poseidon, etc. to denote ‘Zeus in the Water’ (ézos), arguing 
that, when rain fell, the primitive Greeks believed Zeus to be present 
in the rain; that, when the rain collected into streams and rivers, 
they still held Zeus to be in the drinking-water ; and that, when the 
rivers ran into the sea, they looked upon the sea itself as permeated 
with Zeus. In 1904! I re-stated the same argument and sought to 
reinforce it by a variety of pleas, which need not here be specified. 
But the proposed derivation of Potezdin, Poseidon, etc. was not free 
from improbabilities and was rejected by O. Gruppe in 1908”. In- 
deed, I had myself by that time begun to entertain serious doubts 
of it. Shortly afterwards it occurred to me that Poftez-, Posez-, etc., 
the first element in the compound, might be more convincingly 
connected with fdédszs, ‘lord, the whole name Potez-Ddn? or the like 
meaning ‘Lord Zeus’ just as the Homeric pétuia Hére* meant ‘lady 
Hera. My friend Dr P. Giles, to whom I submitted this notion, not 
only gave it his general approval, but told me that it had been 
partially anticipated by German experts. K. Brugmann in the second 
edition of his Grwnudriss (1911)* was in fact able to cite the opinions 
of two other notable philologists, O. Hoffmann and P. Kretschmer. 
Hoffmann in 1906° had derived the various forms of Poseidon’s 


in seinem zweiten Theile nichts anderes als die dialektische Form Dan=Zeus, wahrend 
der erste Theil des Namens die Beziehung auf das feuchte Element trigt. Poseidon= 
Potidan ist also Zeus in Beziehung zum Nass, zum himmlischen Nass. Erst im Laufe der 
Zeit hat sich diese Beziehung auf die Gewasser des Himmels in diejenige auf die Gewisser 
der Erde und hier speziell des Meers umgestaltet,’ F. Durrbach in Daremberg—Saglio 
Dict. Ant. iv. 59 ‘D’aprés une autre interprétation, plus généralement acceptée, la 
premiére partie du nom est formée du théme zo, qu’on retrouve dans Torapés, réros, 
moavs, et qui aurait la signification de /gude, eau; la fin du mot est un simple suffixe ; 
ou encore elle recéle peut-étre le nom de Ze’s (Any, Adv), en sorte que Poseidon, c’est le 
Zeus de |’élément humide. Ces tentatives d’étymologie ne sont qu’ingénieuses, et on ne 
saurait les prendre comme point de départ pour l’exégése.’ 

1 Folk-Lore 1904 xv. 267, ff., 277 ff. 

2 Gruppe AZyth. Lit. 1908 p. 600. Ld. in the Neue Jahrd. f. klass. Altertum 1918 xli. 
296 treats ‘ Potida als vorgriechische, wenn auch vielleicht nicht kretische Benennung des 
im Regenzauber angerufenen Gottes.’ 

3 The nom. sing. Ady was used by the Boeotians in place of Zevs (supra p. 342 n. 0); 
and Boiotia was one of the oldest and most important centres of Poseidon-worship 
(Aristarchos ap. et. mag. p- 547, 16 f. 7 Bowria 6d\y iepd IlooedGvos. See further Farnell 
Cults of Gk. States iv. 29 ff.—a thorough-going and wholly satisfactory investigation). 

4 Supra i. 444, 456. 

5 K. Brugmann Grundriss der vergleichenden Grammatik der indogermanischen 
Sprachen” Strassburg 1gtt ii. 2. 135. 

6 OQ. Hoffmann ‘Poseidon’ in the Jahres-Bericht der Schlesischen Gesellschaft fiir 
vaterlindische Cultur 1906 \xxxiv. 4 (Orientalisch-sprachwissenschaftliche Sektion) 8—16 
reviews the forms Ilorevéafwy (Corinthian), Ilocesddwv (Homeric), Tocoddy (Arcadian), 
Iloriédy or Ilortéds (Doric), Mootda- in Moodjiov...éco0s (27. 2. 506) and Iocténiwy (Old 
Attic and Ionic month), and concludes that IHori- (Ilocu-), Torec- (IIéce-), ILoco- are 
three vocatives of an - stem mo7i-: moot-. He assumes two types of address—a longer 


584 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


name from a vocative Pétez Dawon (P6tz Dé), ‘Lord Dawon’ (‘Lord 
Da’), and had tentatively suggested a connexion with the name of 












































his Arcadian consort Da mater, ‘Mother Da.’ Kretschmer in 1909! 


and more formal IIérec Adfov (IIécec AGfov), whence the nominative Ilore-dafwv, or a 
shorter and more familiar IIér. AG, whence the nominative Ilo7-6as—both being com- 
parable with such expressions as mérva “Hpn, rérvia “HBy. On this showing the proper 
name of the god was Adfwy, which is perhaps related to the A@ of Aayarnp (2d. p. 16: 
‘In derjenigen Landschaft, in welcher der Gott viele seinen alten Ziige bewahrt hat, in 
Arkadien wurde er als Gemahl der Demeter vorgestellt: sollten wérec AGfov, rére Ad und 
AG wérep nur zufallig an einander anklingen?’). 

1 P. Kretschmer in Glotta 1909 i. 27 f.: ‘Sachlich erscheint daher die Annahme recht 
ansprechend, dass in dem Namen séots aus *aéris ‘‘ Herr, Eheherr, Gatte” =skr. pdézs, 
lit. Aa¢(z)s und Ad, der alte Name der Erdgéttin, enthalten in Aayarnp, stecke. Also 
‘‘Herr der Erde” oder ‘‘Gatte der Da.” Es bestehen dabei nur zwei sprachliche Schwie- 
rigkeiten, der Diphthong -e- statt -c- und die Stellung der Glieder. Beide lassen sich 
beheben, wenn wir von einer Zusammenriickung *ILé7e. Ads Vok. ‘‘ Herr oder Gatte der 
Da!” ausgehen. Der alte Vokativ Sing. der 7-Stimme endete auf -ez, musste also von 
*réris *rérec=skr. pdzé (vgl. lit. nakté, aksl. nostd) lauten, wofiir spater *2é77, mit Assibi- 
lation 7éo% eintrat. Die ganze Benennung hat eine Analogie in der epischen Bezeichnung 
des Zeus als (éplydouros) wécis “Hpyns. Die Erhebung des Vokativs zam Nominativ aber 
ist bekanntlich bei Eigennamen nicht selten und hat eine beriihmte Parallele in /zppzter 
=Zei mwdrep. Das dor. Ilordés (Epicharm. 81. Sophron 131 Kaib.) kann direkt zusam- 
mengewachsenes *IIé7t Ads sein; davon abgeleitet das Adjektiv dor. Iorédacos, ion. att. 
Tloctdjuos, Wootdeos (dazu der Monatsname Ioaténdv, Tlocidewv). Die Form Ioredafwv 
mit den daraus entstandenen dor. Horedav, ark. Tocoddv, ion. Iocedéwv, att. Tocedav 
ist eine Weiterbildung nach Art von *’AAkuafwr ’Adkuar, Mayawr, ’AuvOdwr, *Iodwv 


The double axe and Zeus Labréyndos 585 


had gone further in the same direction by supposing the original 
vocative to have been *Pétez Dds, ‘Lord (Husband) of the Earth- 
goddess’, and thence forming the new nominatives Potidés, Potet- 
ddwon, etc. This is phonetically unimpeachable. But so also is my 
Potei-Dén, etc., ‘Lord Zeus.’ And on the whole it seems to me more 
likely that the god was named in his own right than in virtue of his 
relation to the goddess. 

Zeus Strdtios of Labranda bore a local appellative, which is 
spelled in very diverse ways. Kretschmer? has compiled a list of a 
dozen variants—L abrayndos’ (fig. 492), Lambrayndos‘, Labraiyndos*, 


hom. Iacjwv dor. Tadv,‘Epudwy “Epudy. Es scheint nun, dass in der Zusammenriickung 
beide Vokativformen, die alte *mére und die jiingere *m67., neben einander gebraucht 
wurden.’ Etc. 

! On AG@ as an ancient pet-name (‘ Za//zamen’) of the earth-goddess see P. Kretschmer 
‘Demeter’ in the Wiener Studien 1902 xxiv. 523 ff. 

° P. Kretschmer Lizleitung in die Geschichte der Griechischen Sprache Gottingen 
1896 p. 303. 

’ AaBpaivdos in inscriptions from Mylasa (A. Hauvette-Besnault—M. Dubois in the 
Bull. Corr. Hell. 1881 v. 98 ff. no. 2, 10 f. quoted supra p. 578 n. 4 no. (3). W. Judeich 
in the Ath. Afitth. 1890 xv. 261 f. no. 15, 3 f. ['E]karéuvws Ovdddov [te]pe[v]s A[c]| [os] 
AaBpaivdov Mavyvirns), from the neighbourhood of Aphrodisias (R. Chandler MWarmora 
Oxontensta Oxonii 1763 ii. 11 no. 12 pl. 5, 12 (=my fig. 492), Corp. zuscr. Gr. ii 
no. 2750, Michel Recazezl d’luscr. gr. no. 802, Transactions of the Third International 
Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 il. 192 fig. 16 a small altar, found in a 
Turkish cemetery between Aphrodisias and Hierapolis, and now at Oxford, showing 
a double axe in relief and beneath it in letters of s. i B.c. Avos AaBpaiiv|dou | kal Aros 
Meyio|srov), from Stratonikeia (E. Hula—E. Szanto in the Sitzungsber. d. kats. Akad. 
ad. Wiss. in Wien Phil.-hist. Classe 1895 cxxxii. 2. 17 f. no. 12, 1 ff. AovKcos Berwvtos | 
*AdéEavdpos | Lovmpapovdns | dvéOnxev TH oviorjwate Tav mpeo|[Blurav rov Ala ror | 
[A]aBpaiivdov éx rev | idiwy brapxévrwy a dedication of imperial date. zd. 2b, 1895 
cxxxli. 2. Ig no. 1 a marble slab inscribed Anuyrpios cat ‘“Epulas Ad | AaBpaiivdwe with 
an axe in relief below the inscription), from Halikarnassos (G. Hirschfeld Zhe Collection 
of Ancient Greek Inscriptions in the British Museum Oxford 1893 iv. 1. 79 f. no. go4 
a small marble altar, found near Budrum, inscribed in lettering of a good period Avds | 
AaBpaivdov), from Herakleia at the foot of Mt Latmos (R. Chandler /zscriptiones an- 
_ tiguae Oxonii 1774 p- 18 Pars i no. 49, Corp. tnscr. Gr. ii no. 2896 two stones marked 
with the double axe and inscribed Ads | AaSpaiivdov, found in an island near Safi on 
the lake of Herakleia (map in AZi/et iii. 1 at end)), and even from the Peiraieus, where 
the god had a ¢hiasos (Corp. inscr. Att. ii. i no. 613, Michel Recueil d’Jnscr. gr. no. 977, 
of the year 299—298 B.C., in praise of Menis, son of Mnesitheos, of Herakleia, who has 
done well by the worshippers and sanctuary of Zeus Labrayndos, 5 ff. kal 76 Te poor Gov 
kai|[7]o [a]érwua rod iepod toh Aros Tod AaBpaiivdou ére|[ré]Necev déiws Tov Beod, 13 f. Kai 
Tiv lepwovvnv akiws iepe|\acato Tod Oeod: x.7.r.). That the title Aa8pdiivdos was quadri- 
syllabic appears from Plin. zat. Azst. 32. 16 in Labrayndi Iovis fonte etc., where the best 
manuscripts give /abrayndi (labramdi cod. d. labrandi cod. T.). 

4 Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no. 2691 e, 4 = Lebas—Waddington Asze Mineure no. 379, 4= 
Michel Recuezl a’ Jnscr. gr. no. 471, U1, 35=F. Bechtel in Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.- 
Inschr. iii. 2. 759 f. no. 5753 c, 4= Dittenberger Sy//. znscr. Gr.’ no. £67, 35 quoted supra 
p- 576 n.2. For the uw cp. et. mag. p. 389, 57 (cod. D) zz/ra p. 587 n. 2. 

° W. Judeich in the Azh. Mitth. 1890 xv. 259 no. 11 an altar at Mylasa inscribed 
Anuoo()évns | representation of a double axe | AaBpavivd[w]| avé(@)nkev. 


586 The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 


Labradyndos (?)', Labratyndos*, Labrdindos (?)*, Labrdendos*, Labren- 
dos’, Ldbrandos (?)’, Labrandeis', Labradeis*, Labrandenés’—and 
has drawn the obvious conclusion that Carian vocalisation was 
incommensurable with Greek spelling. Since the zd-suffix is found, 
not only in the names of places, but also sometimes in those of 
persons, Kretschmer” further conjectures that an axe-god Labrayn- 
dos gave his name to the sanctuary Labraynda and subsequently 
received from the sanctuary his appellative Labrandeis etc. That 
is, no doubt, a thinkable sequence of events. But it is simpler to 
suppose that Ldbranda was called ‘the place of the Double Axe’ 
because repeatedly struck by lightning”, the god being named from 
the spot, not the spot from the god. 

This would square well with J. Schaefer’s” surmise that originally 
the double axe alone was the object here worshipped. If so, the 
Carian cult must have been near akin to the Cretan. In which con- 
nexion we should observe that the Mylasians of the first century B.C. 


1 Lebas—Waddington Asze Mineure no. 348, 4 f. xal rod Awos rod | AaBpaaivdov. But 
A. Hauvette-Besnault—M. Dubois in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1881 v. 98 ff. no. 2, 1of. 
read kal Tod Atos rod | AaBpaiivdov: supra p. 578 n. 4 no. (3). 

2 Lebas—Waddington Aste Aineure no. 338 (an inscription of s. i B.c., found at 
Olymos, recording the sale of land by a certain Polites to the trustees of the sacred 
domain of Apollon and Artemis), 17 kal 7 iepa yj ’AméANwvos Kal "Apréudos Gey Syuov 
’Odupéwy Kal 7 lepa yj Avos AaBpadvdov [—--]. Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no. 2693 (inexact) = 
Lebas—Waddington Asie Mineuwre no. 399 (decree in honour of Ouliades, found at 
Mylasa), 20[———] rpoesrnx6r70s Tod iepod rod EX AaBpaitvdw[c] rod | [-—-]. Cp. W. Judeich 
in the Ath. Mitth. 1890 xv. 261 f. no. 15 (Mylasa), 4 Mavvvirns but 8 Matuvvirns. 

3 AaBpdivdos is inferred from the existence of AaBpaivdls as a woman’s name at 
Stratonikeia (Corp. zuscr. Gr. ii. 1108 no. 2731 46, 2= Lebas—Waddington Asze MWineure 
no. 531, 2 KAavdlas AaBpaivdidos). 

4 E. Hula—E. Szanto in the Svtzungsber. d. hais. Akad. d. Wiss. in Wien Phil.-hist. 
Classe 1895 cxxxil. 2. 13 no. 4 (fragment of a decree in Doric dialect found at Mylasa), 
14 [A]aBpaévdo[v]. 

° W. Judeich in the Ath. Mitth. 1890 xv. 259 no. 10 (a small altar of grey-blue 
marble found at Mylasa) Avés Aa|Spévdov in lettering of s. ii B.c. beneath and about the 
representation of a double axe. 

5 AdBpavéos is inferred from et. mag. p. 389, 57 quoted izfra p. 587 n. 2. 

7 Ail. de nat. an. 12. 30 Kai év T@ lep@ 5€ To AaBpavdéws Ards x.7.X. and Zeds dé 
AaBpavdeds x.7.d. (22fra p. 590 n. 3). AaBpaydevs as an ethnic is found in Lebas— 
Waddington Asze M/ineure no. 334 (Olymos), 2 f. AaBpav|[dets], 7 f. A[a]|[Spavdets] and in 
Steph. Byz. s.v. AdBpavéa-...AaBpavdnves kai AaBpdyd.os kal AaBpavde’s. P. Foucart in 
the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1887 xi. 84 f. no. 4 (Sarz-Tsam), 2 AaBpavridns, 8 AaBpavrida. 

8 Plout. guaestt. Gr. 45 (supra p. 559 f.). 

® Strab. 659 (sepra p. 576). AaBpaydnvés as an ethnic occurs in Steph. Byz. s.v. 
AdBpavda (supra n. 7). 

10 P. Kretschmer Zinleitung in die Geschichte der Griechischen Sprache Gottingen 
1896 p. 304 f. 

1 Theophr. frag. 159 Wimmer (sapra p. 581). 

12 J. Schaefer De Jove apud Cares culto (Dissertationes philologicae Halenses xx. 4) 
Halis Saxonum 1912 p. 355 f. 


The double axe and Zeus Labraéyndos 587 


are known to have had priests of Zeus Kvetagenés and the Kouretes'. 
Reverence paid to Cretan powers is at least suggestive of Cretan 
affinity. 

Another point deserving of consideration is the possibility that 
the axe-god of Mylasa was at one time named Ladradyndos, ‘He of 
Labranda,’ without any more exact determination. The Etymolo- 
gicum Magnum? tells how the Kouretes Labrandos, Panamoros, 
and Palaxos or Spalaxos came in consequence of an oracle to Karia 
and, being overtaken by night, slept on the banks of a river which 
they therefore called the Heudonos. As two of these Curetic names 
were obviously cult-titles of Zeus, Labrandos being derived from 
the Zeus Labrdyndos of Labranda and Panamoros from the Zeus 
Panémaros of Panamara*, O. Hofer in 1894 suspected that the third 
name likewise, Palaxos or Spalaxos, might prove to be a ‘ Zeus- 
epitheton*. His suspicion was well founded; for seven years later he 
triumphantly quotes’ a dedication to Zeus Spdloxos on a small altar 
found by W. Kubitschek and W. Reichel at Mastaura and published 
by them in 1894°. The altar in question is decorated with a double 
axe also; and this tempts Hofer to hazard the guess that Pdlaxos 
may be connected with pélekys, ‘an axe. In view of the various 
disguises worn by this much-travelled word’ there is no phonetic 


1 Lebas—Waddington Aste Mineure no. 394, 8 f.= Michel Recaezl d’Inscr. gr. no. 472, 
8 f. (Mylasa) érecd) Moo|[xiw]v ’Apioretdou, lepeds Aros Kpnrayevods cal Koupirwv x.7.d. 
(suprai.t49 n.t). Hid. ib. no. 406, 1 (Mylasa) [él credaynddpou Tod detvos Tod detvos, 
iepéws Ards Kpnralyevois cat Koupiyrwy, x.r.\. Cp. eosd. 2b. no. 338, 8 (Olymos) “Eppia 
*Avrurdrpov Tod ‘Eputov, leper Ards Kpnra[ylevots x[a]i Kovpyrw[y LapeuBwpde?, x.7.2.]. 
Michel refers the first of these inscriptions, which is now in the Louvre (W. Froehner 
Musée impérial du Louvre. Les inscriptions grecques Paris 1865 no. 56), to the close of 
Sy LBs: 

2 Et. mag. p. 389, 55 ff. Htdwvos: morauds tHs more wev Alas re kal “Epturns cal 
Aaptons, viv 6€ Tpddd\ewv kadovmévys tis Aclas: bre AdBpavdos (NauBpados cod. D.) Kal 
Ilavduopos cal Id\agéos (IIddeEos cod. D.), 7 Zrddakos, oi Kovpyres, KaTa xpnomov emt 
THv Kaplay opudvres, vuxrods émixatadaBotons, éml tats oxPas adrod KaTekouunOnoay. mapa 
TO evdijoa oty Hidwvov rov rorapoy wvouacav. Suprai. 18 n. 4. 

3 Supra i. 18 ff. 

4 O. Hofer in Roscher Zex. Myth. ii. 1777 f. 

5 Id. 1b. iii. 1276. 

8 W. Kubitschek—W. Reichel in the Anzeiger der haiserlichen Akademie der Wissen- 
schaften Phil.-hist. Classe 1893 (Wien 1894) xxx. 93 no. 2: ‘aus Mastaura ein kleiner 
Altar, dessen Vorderseite in Relief die Biiste eines unbartigen Kopfes mit Schleier und 
die Worte 7’ Aw Dradhwéw” Aupt(o)y edx jy trigt, wahrend auf der Riickseite eine Doppelaxt 
erscheint.’ 

7 aéXexus, Sanskrit paraci-h (par¢gu-h), was a loan-word from the east, cp. Babylonian- 
Assyrian filaggu, Sumerian da/ag, ‘axe’ (H. Lewy Dize semitischen Fremdworter im 
Griechischen Berlin 1895 p. 178, Prellwitz Ztym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr.” p. 358, Boisacq 
Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr.p. 761 f.). Babr. 64.9 kai rv mehixwy TGv del oe TeuvovTwV 

.(so W. G. Rutherford, in his ed. of 1883, with excision of line 8) implies a form éNvé. 

R. Eisler in Phzlologus 1909 xviii. 126 n. 27 derives Bepexvvdat, Bepéxuvres, Bepéxuv os, 


588 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


impossibility to bar the way. Again, if the Mylasian axe-god was 
known as Labrdyndos before he became Zeus Labrayndos, we can 
appreciate Euhemeros’ statement that Zeus in the course of his 
journey round the world was entertained by a king or chieftain 
called Labryandos and bade his host in memory of the visit erect a 
temple to Zeus Labrydéndios'. Finally, one altar found at Mylasa 
exhibits the double axe and a dedication ‘to Labraiyndos*’ without 
any mention of Zeus. Nevertheless it is certain that, long before 
this altar was made, Labrdyndos had been definitely identified with 
Zeus: the joint designation goes back to Herodotos* and probably 
to Gyges+. 

In 1840 Sir Charles Fellows® saw and described the Sacred Road 
that runs from Mylasa to Labranda: 


‘In descending the mountain towards Mellassa, we followed and continually 
crossed and re-crossed an ancient paved road, the large stones differing from 
those of later days by being wrought and fitted together with the protruding 
natural rock: the road, in passing ravines, was also built up with solid Greek 
masonry. This way doubtless continued to the ancient city of Mylasa.’ 


He also visited the temple at Labranda’‘, but failed to recognise it 
as that of Zeus Labraéyndos'. P. Lebas fared better. On March 16, 


etc. from *Bépexus ‘offenbar eine aufgerauhte Nebenform von 7éAexus=‘* Doppelaxt ”’ 
p g PP 


(accents amended). The é of da/ag and the B of BéXexus, BéNexos, BEXeKKos, an axe-shaped 
bean (P. Kretschmer Zizlectung in die Geschichte der Griechischen Sprache Gottingen 
1896 p. 106 f.), might be alleged in support of this derivation. Dr Giles tells me that 
*Bépexus for wéexus would be possible as far east as Persia, where 7 occurs for /. 

But when Eisler doc. cit. goes on to detect double axes in the Ie\acyot (=*Ieday- 
okot), Indeywy son of "Aétos (77. 21. 141), the I[ndayéves in general, I\axia and 7 IIhaxcavy 
(accent rectified), Peleg (Gen. to. 25), the Persians (‘ Wortspiel: ‘‘ Prithu-Parcavah ” 
“* Axtfiihrende Parther” Rig Veda 7, 83’), and the Amazonian zaA)aktées (‘ Nach ihrer 
Axt heissen natiirlich diese Tempeldirnen’), even the Complaisant Man is unwilling 
oupralfew airos Néywv...‘ wéXexus’ ! 

1 Lact. av. zst. 1. 22 Historia vero Sacra testatur ipsum Iovem, postquam rerum 
potitus sit, in tantam venisse insolentiam ut ipse sibi fana in multis locis constituerit. nam 
cum terras circumiret, ut in quamque regionem venerat, reges principesve populorum 
hospitio sibi et amicitia copulabat et cum a quoque digrederetur, iubebat sibi fanum creari 
hospitis sui nomine, quasi ut posset amicitiae ac foederis memoria consérvari. sic con- 
stituta sunt templa Iovi Ataburio, Iovi Labryandio (labryandio cod. R. labyandro 
cod. B. labriandrio codd. S.H. labriando codd. P.V.): Ataburus enim et Labryandus 
(labryandus cod. R. labyandrus cod. B. labriandrius cod. S. labrianderius cod. H. 
labriandus codd. P.V.) hospites eius atque adiutores in bello fuerunt ; item Iovi Laprio, 
Tovi Molioni, Iovi Casio, et quae sunt in eundem modum. 

2 Supra p. 585 N. 5. 3 Hdt. 5. 119 (¢2fra p. 590 n. 2). 

+ Plout. geaestt. Gr. 45 (supra p. 559). 

° C. Fellows An Account of Discoveries in Lycia London 1841 p. 67. 

EI GRIIZS ORT 

7 Fellows was misled by R. Chandler Zontan Antzguzties London 1769 p. 55 ff. pls. iv, 
1—s§ and Zravels in Asia Minor and Greece Oxford 1825 i. 245 ff., who took the ruins. 
of an unfinished Corinthian temple at Ayakd2 to mark the site of Labranda. Others had 


The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 589 


1844 he reached and identified Labranda (Koaja Vaila), describing 
his experiences in an enthusiastic letter! and securing admirable 
views and plans of the extant remains (figs. 493 and 494) 


\ 





Fig. 493. 


Later the spot was revisited by Lieut. R. M. Smith, when attached 
to Sir C. T. Newton’s expedition to Asia Minor (1856—1859). 
Newton? introduces his report as follows: 


‘The ruins are very finely situated near the summit of the Kodja Yailih 
mountains, the ancient Mount Latmus, according to Kiepert. A principal ravine 
opens from it down to the valley of Mylasa. “The site is covered with ruins of 
massive Hellenic masonry,some of which appear to have been terrace walls. The 
most important of these ruins is that of a small distyle temple 27 am/zs, consist- 


rightly identified them with Euromos, and W. M. Leake Journal of a Tour in Asia 
Minor London 1824 p. 231 f. had proposed to see in them the temple of Zeus Evpwuevs 
(a ‘second brass’ of Caracalla, said to bear an archaic effigy of Zeus in a tetrastyle temple 
and the legend ZEYC EYPQOMEYC EYPOMEQN (Eckhel Doctr. nm. ver.” ii. 581, 
Rasche Lex. Num. iii. 817, 854, Suppl. ii. 915, Head Azst. num.” p. 617) rests upon the 
authority of Vaillant and is discredited by J. Schaefer of. cit. p. 362). 

1 Reprinted from the Revue Indépendante 1844 xiv. 535 f. in Lebas—Reinach Voyage 
Arch. p. 48. 

2 P. Le Bas Voyage archéologique en Grice et en Aste Mineure Paris 1847 Itinéraire 
pl. 65 (=my fig. 493), 1858 Architecture Asie Mineure ii pl. 8, 1 (=my fig. 494), Lebas— 
Reinach Voyage Arch. pp. 47f., 149 Itin. pl. 65 and Archit. ii pl. 8, 1. 

3. C. T. Newton A History of Discoveries at Halicarnassus, Cnidus, and Branchide 
London 1863 ii. 2. 613 f. 


590 The double axe and Zeus Labrdéyndos 


ing of a Pronaos and ced/a, with a square recess at the end. The length of the cella 
inside the walls is 38’ 3” by a width of 
336”. The doorway is 12’ 2” in width. 
Two lintel stones still stretch across 
the top. The height of the doorway is 
about 18’. The flanking walls consist 
of twelve courses, each about 13’ deep. 
The thickness of this wall is 6’ 3”. Be- 
yond the doorway the side walls of the 
pronaos extend 16’ 8”. At a height of 
12’ from the ground outside, and 2’ 3” 
from the floor inside, the walls are 
pierced at regular intervals by win- 
dows 6’ 3” by 3’ 6” at the base, tapering 
slightly upwards. Round these win- 
dows is a slight sinking, as if to receive 
shutters. The view from them is most 
striking, embracing the plain of My- 
lasa, Paitschin, Leros, Calymnos, Cos, 
Budrum, and the mountains all round. 
Near this building drums of fluted 
marble columns were lying about}. 
The diameter of one was about 3’. A 
smaller one measured 2’ 1”.”’ 


; 
. 
i 


Labranda in its palmy days 
had other attractions besides this 
many-windowed fane with its 
large and well-built precinct. 
Here grew a fine grove of sacred 
plane-trees, to which the Carian troops fled for refuge after their 
disastrous defeat by the Persians under Daurises on the banks of 
the Marsyas (the modern Chiza Chaz) during the Ionian revolt? 
Here too was a spring of clear water, in which were kept tame eels 
decked with earrings and chains of gold*. 

The Carians, being a warlike race, viewed their axe-bearing god 





1 Jd. 2b. p. 614 n.° says: ‘Prokesch von Osten [A. Prokesch-Osten Denkwiirdigheiten 
und Erinnerungen aus dem Orient ed. E. Miinch Stuttgart 1837 iii. 449] describes other 
ruins on this site. He saw a portico with twelve columns standing, now probably thrown 
down; a great number of pieces of frieze lying on the ground; a massive wall of hewn 
stone fitted without mortar, 134 paces long, connected with a row of chambers not less 
than 200 paces long ; and at the end of the wall a tower. The whole area covered by the 
ruins he estimates as not more than 400 paces in width: he considers these remains to be 
of the Roman period.’ 

~ Jekeiis 56 slaGe 

3 Plin. zat. Azst. 32. 16 € manu vescuntur pisces...item in Labrayndi (supra p. 585 
n. 3) lovis fonte anguillae et inaures additas gerunt, Ail. de mat. an. 12. 30 xeuponBes dé 
lxOts Kai braxovovtes TH KATE Kal Tpopas aomévws Sexomevor moddaxbGe Kal eloi Kai 
TpépovTat, womep ovv...kal év TH lepge 5é€ ToD AaBpavdéws Ards ev Kpyvy dtevdo0s vduaros, 
kal €xovow opuloxous xpucois kat éM\NOBia, Xpvca uévTa Kal Tadra. 


The double axe and Zeus Labréyndos 591 


as im primis a fighter, brought his old wooden effigy up to date by 
means of an added sword, and saluted him as S¢rdtios, the ‘ Lord 
of Hosts!’ This title occurs in several inscriptions from Mylasa’. 
But the martial aspect of the deity worshipped by Carian mercenaries 
from generation to generation never really eclipsed the original con- 
ception of him as a storm-god and fertilising power. Labranda is 
liable to rain of exceptional severity, as Sir Charles Fellows’ found 
to his cost. He reached Mylasa on March 20, 1840, ‘in a violent 
storm, and here he was detained by the rain falling ‘in such torrents’ 
that, when he attempted an excursion to Ayak/z, it completely soaked 
his pockets, portfolios, and carefully copied inscriptions. He com- 
plains that ‘the thick branches of a group of evergreen oaks did not 
even afford shelter from the deluging rain.’ After this we are not 
surprised to learn from Aelian‘ that Zeus Ladrandeis got his name 
from the ‘heavy downpour’ that he sent. Modern man is apt to 
erumble at a shower. But the ancients knew better, and welcomed 
it as proof of the sky-god’s gendering force. 

If the sky-god was the fertiliser, the earth-goddess was the ferti- 


l Ail. de mat. an. 12. 30 7d 6é dyahua Eihos mapypryTrat, Kal TYuarar Kadovmevos Kdprés 
Te kai XTpatwos. But Strab. 659 (supra p. 576f.) expressly distinguishes the cult of Zeus 
Kapcos from that of Zeus AaBpavdnvéds or Xtpdtios. No doubt Aelian has blundered ; 
probably because, as C. Robert in J. Schaefer De Jove apud Cares culto (Dissertationes 
Philologicae Halenses xx. 4) Halis Saxonum 1912 p. 357 n. 1 suggests, he is mixing the 
contents of Hdt. r. 171 with those of Hat. 5. 119. 

= Lebas—Waddington Aste Mineure no. 342 (a dedicatory inscription of s. i B.C., with 
a representation of a double axe above it) Oeouyjorou riv eixd[va Oedur]|[n]oros Aéovros 
kara 6€ vobec[iay Acoxdelous Tod] | ILoAuKXeérou, lepeds Acds Zrpariou, [pioaT ]lopylas evexev 
kai ebvolas, [avéOnxe]|[v] Av’ Drpariw. 

W. Judeich in the Ath. Mitth. 1890 xv. 267 ff. no. 20 (a decree of s. i B.C.), 3 ff. 
édotev 7H “YapBecvrav puvdq yrounv | [arodylvapevov Oeouyjotov tod Agovtos Kata 6é | 
[vio@]eciay AcoxNelous tod IoduKXeirov, tiepéws Avds | [=r]parelov cai “Hpas, “Ayavirou 
apxovTos, Omws K.T.D. 

Lebas—Waddington Aste Mineure no. 415 (supra p. 579 n. 0 no. (2) ds), 12 ff. 
eveBlBacev dé adrovs évdvte|[ov ulapripwy Tay dudpwy, Aéovros Tod Ocouyyjorov Tov A€éovTos, 
Atuvatov rod Oeouvjorov, | [kal E]vroewov Tod Oeouvjorou lepéws Ards Kapiov, kat ’Idcovos 
kal Qeouvjorov vidy Oeouvyjal|[rov], weTa kvplov Tod marpods a’t&v Ocouvjorov Tov AéovTos 
kara dé viobeciay AcoxNelous | [Tod] ILoAdukNelrov, iepéws Acds Ztpatiov Kal f 
"Hpas. 

Lebas—Waddington Aste Wineure no. 343 (a dedication of s. i B.C.) 
Au =rpatiw. 

3-C. Fellows Az Account of Discoveries in Lycia London 1841 
pp: 67, 69. 

4 Ael. de nat.an. 12. 30 Leis 5¢ AaBpavdets toas AdBpw Kal rolh@ 
Thy eTuvuuiav THVOE HVEYKATO. 

C. Fellows of. cit. p. 75 fig. (=my fig. 495) noticed four keystones 
decorated with a double axe in relief, which were built into various Fig. 495. 
walls at Mylasa. One of them, here shown, was 7 sztu over a fine : 
arched gateway carrying an aqueduct. We may perhaps infer that the water-supply was 
under the special protection of the rain-god. 





592 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


lised. But, apart from the late inscriptions which associate Hera 
with Zeus S¢rdtzos’, we have no evidence of a goddess at all in 
Labranda. It would seem that here throughout historical times the 
god was all in all*. Yet, remembering 

} =the similarity of the Carian to the 
i Cretan cult, we may well suspect that 
| in the former as in the latter a goddess 
j had once played the leading part. In- 
if deed, it would not be unreasonable to 
conjecture that in Karia the cult of the 
Indo-Europaean sky-father had been 

el | superposed on that of an indigenous 
Sse | earth-mother, and that Zeus had to a 





certain extent absorbed into himself 


* RSsosaiihl her maternal characteristics. In point 

Ss p | ¢« of fact, some such hypothesis is 

Sis  ¢ necessary to account for two very 

hia oe remarkable reliefs, in which the Zeus 

a . of Labranda is represented with the 

2 ee ehaet = breasts of a goddess. One of these 


(fig. 496) is ‘an archaic statuette in 
white marble’ seen by J. T. Wood ‘in 
the garden of a Turkish gentleman 
at Mylassa.’ It is of importance, because in all probability it pre- 
serves for us the type of the cult-image at Labranda on a larger scale 
than the coins already mentioned (figs. 476—479, 485)*. We are con- 
fronted by a beardless (?) deity, with £é/athos on head, necklaces 
round throat, double axe and sceptre in either hand. The body 
below the waist is swathed with an agrenén® and above it exhibits 


1 Supra p. 591 N. 2. 

2 Cp. J. Schaefer of. cit. p. 382: ‘neque Rhea-Cybele, quam Cretenses omnibus 
aetatibus praeter Iovem diligenter venerabantur, in Caria nisi in septentrionali Lydiae 
confinio culta est.’ See, however, H. Graillot Le cudte de Cybele Paris 1912 pp. 362 ff., 
385, 409. 

3 J. T. Wood Discoveries at Ephesus London 1877 p. 270 fig. B (=my fig. 496). 

4 Supra p. 574 ff. (figs. 476—479, 485). C. Lenormant Vouvelle galerie mythologique 
‘(Trésor de numismatique et de glyptique) Paris 1850 p. 52f. no. 16 pl. 8, 11 and an 
enlarged fig. on p. 53: ‘il porte une longue barbe et laisse voir deux mamelles de femme.’ 
P. Foucart in the Aon. Prot 1910 xviii. 162 thinks that Lenormant’s draughtsman meant 
to represent three breasts, not two. But Overbeck G7. Kumstmyth. Zeus p. 270 is justly 
sceptical of the whole design. I fail to detect any breasts on the two examples of the coin 
in the British Museum (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 133 nos. 38, 39); nor are 
they mentioned by G. Macdonald as present on the two specimens at Glasgow (Hunter 
Cat. Coins ii. 425 nos. 2, 3); while Foucart Joc. cit. admits that ‘M. Babelon est d’avis 
que la piéce du Cabinet des Médailles ne permet ni de nier ni d’affirmer.’ 

> Supra p. 574 Nn. 7. 


_. 


ee 


The double ee and Zeus Labrayndos 593 


four rows of female breasts. We are, of course, inclined to regard 
this effeminate form as a goddess, not a god, till we come to examine 
its counterpart on the second relief (fig. 497)! That is a sunk panel 
of white marble surmounted by a pediment, found at Tegea near 
the temple of Athena A/éa and acquired in 1914 by the British 
Museum. In the centre of the relief stands a bearded god, definitely 


ay 


edule hs ccgneeeceee cma aca <1, totam An eden een tebe eemetinttd telieatita ie “haan ea 
ig tn 


ee ae es rine. as 








Fig. 497- 


inscribed Zezés. He faces us, in chztén and himdtion, holding a double 
axe over his right shoulder and a spear in his left hand. A small 
piece of marble, filling the space between the head and the edge of 
the panel, suggests a kdlathos. Round his neck Zeus wears a large 
necklace. On his chest, and apparently outside his chztén, he has six 


1 P. Foucart ‘Le Zeus Stratios de Labranda’ in the Aon. Piot 1910 xviii. 145—175 
with figs. 1—10, Am. Journ. Arch. 1913 xvii. 276, E. Kuhnert in Roscher Zex. Myth. 
iv. 1548 f. with fig., A. H. Smith ‘Some recently acquired reliefs in the British Museum’ 
in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1916 xxxvi. 67—70 fig. 1 f. My fig. 497 is from a photograph 
kindly supplied to me by Mr Smith. The inscriptions are published by F. Hiller von 
Gaertringen in the Zzscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. iv no. 89 and by F. H. Marshall Zhe 
Collection of Ancient Greek Inscriptions in the British Museum Oxford 1916 iv. 2. 116 
no. 950. 


Cc. I. 38 


594 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


breast-like protuberances. M. Meurer! and A. H. Smith? have 
attempted to explain these as some sort of pectoral ornament. 
But Wood’s relief is really conclusive in favour of admitting them 
to be female breasts*. Zeus is flanked by two smaller figures, who 
look towards him with gestures of adoration, The inscriptions, 
Idrietis and Ada, show that they are the king and queen of Karia, 
who were reigning together between 351 and 344 B.c.4. As son and 
daughter of Hekatomnos, brother and sister of Maussollos, they 
naturally adore their ancestral god Zeus S¢rdtios of Labranda. We 
cannot, however, suppose that this trumpery relief was a votive 
offering made by, or on behalf of, Carian royalty. Besides, how 
came it to be found at Tegea? In the absence of the lower half of 
the stone, which doubtless gave the circumstances of the dedication, 
certainty is unattainable. But P. Foucart has put forward a very 
plausible hypothesis®, Skopas, who is known to have decorated the 
temple of Athena A/a before he worked at the Mausoleum, probably 
took with him from Tegea to Halikarnassos some of his best work- 
men. One of these, on returning to his native town, consecrated to 
the goddess a souvenir of his Carian journey, as like as not executed 
by his own hand. 

The dzzarre type of a Zeus with matronal breasts must not be 
taken, with E. Gerhard‘, to imply an androgynous deity, nor merely, 
with P. Foucart’, to betoken that ‘c’est lui qui nourrit les étres 
vivants, qui répand l’abondance.’ It occurs again at Sasa in 
Kappadokia, where H. Rott® discovered an arcuated rock-cut niche 


1M. Meurer ‘Die mammae der Artemis Ephesia’ in the Rom. Mitth. 1914 xxix. 
200—219 with figs. 1—10. 

2 A. H. Smith in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1916 xxxvi. 68. 

3 This is recognised by both Foucart and Kuhnert /oce. cétt. 

4 U. Kahrstedt Morschungen zur Geschichte des ausgehenden fiinften und des vierten 
Jahrhunderts Berlin 1910 pp. 22, 119, 149 f. and in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ix. 912 
dates their joint reign of seven years (Diod. 16. 69) from the spring of 350 to the end of 
344 B.C. 

® Pp. Foucart in the Woz. Piot 1910 xviii. 147, A. H. Smith in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 
1916 xxxvi. 69. 

6 Gerhard Gr. Myth. i. 166. 

7 P. Foucart loc. cit. p. 172 f., followed by W. Deonna in the Rev. Arch. 1913 il. 336, 
Am. Journ. Arch. 1914 Xviil. 502. 

8 H. Rott Kletnasiatische Denkmiler aus Pisidien, Pamphylien, Kappadokien und 
Lykien Leipzig 1908 p. 253 f. fig. 92 (=my fig. 498): ‘ Dass das Christentum hier bereits 
eine alte Kultstatte vorfand, ist ersichtlich aus einer Gotterfigur, die wir an der senkrechten 
Felswand hinter dem Dorf ausgehauen fanden. In einer rundbogigen Nische sitzt eine 
Gottheit, die den linken Arm erhoben hatte. Der Oberk6rper ist unbekleidet und zeigt 
Reste von Briisten, ein faltiges Gewand fallt itiber Schoss und Kniee hinab, Vier Stufen 
fiihrten zur Statue hinauf, der Raum davor ist geebnet und die Felswande rings geglattet... 
Ich halte die Figur fiir den Zeus Stratios, dessen Kult in Kappadokien allenthalben 
verbreitet war.’ On Zeus Strd¢ios in Kappadokia etc. see in primis F. Cumont ‘ Le 


The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 595 


(fig. 498) containing a seated effigy of Zeus Strdtios (?). The left 
arm is raised. The lower limbs are wrapped in a mantle. The upper 
part of the body is bare and shows remains of breasts. Here too we 
should infer that the Hellenic father-god had usurped the position of 
the Anatolian mother-goddess, and that local prejudice had to be 





Fig. 4098. 


satisfied by the strange expedient of giving him ‘the breasts of her 
consolations'’ On occasion, no doubt, the old order triumphed over 
the new, and the resultant deity—despite his beard—was regarded 
as a goddess rather than a god. Thus at Zougo or Zogw7, a village 


Zeus Stratios de Mithridate’ in the Revue de l’histotire des religions igor xliii. 47—57, 
F. Cumont—E. Cumont Voyage d’exploration archéologique dans le Pont et la Petite 
Arménie (Studia Pontica ii) Bruxelles 1906 pp. 171—184 (‘ Le temple de Zeus Stratios’), 
E. Kuhnert in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 1545—1550. 

tis, 66.:11. 


38—2 


596 The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 


near Mersivan at the entrance of the great marshy plain known to 
Strabon! as Chiliokomon and now called Soulou-Ova, F. Cumont? 
in 1900 photographed a crude relief (fig. 499), which represents a 





ZA AN 
Zl MN AY \s \e \\ \\ \\ NN \\ \ 


Fig. 499. 


divinity, at once bearded and breasted, advancing from left to right 
with a thunderbolt brandished in one hand and a round shield 
grasped in the other. The accompanying dedication’ describes this 
peculiar personage as ¢hed, a ‘goddess,’ not theds, a ‘god.’ 


1 Strab. 561. 

2 F. Cumont—E. Cumont of. czt. p. 139 with fig. (=my fig. 499): ‘il subsiste au 
village de Zowgo un curieux morceau de sculpture. Ce bas-relief (H. env. o™,45, L. o™, 50) 
est malheureusement placé derriére le tronc d’arbre creusé qui sert de lavoir communal 
et que nous ne piimes faire enlever. On n’en apergoit donc, dans notre reproduction, 
que la partie supérieure : le haut du corps d’un personnage a grosse téte barbue, brandissant 
le foudre de la main droite élevée et portant au bras gauche un bouclier rond. Le travail 
trés grossier est manifestement l’ceuvre d’un sculpteur indigéne et j’inclinerais 4 reconnaitre 
dans ce combattant quelque dieu anatolien ; peut-étre l’ancétre du Zeus Stratios, honoré 
dans ce pays a l’époque de Mithridate.’ 

3H. Grégoire ‘ Rapport sur un voyage d’exploration dans le Pont et en Cappadoce’ 
in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1909 xxxiil. 17: ‘M. Cumont, en 1900, photographia au village 
de Zougo, a entrée du XiAvdcwpor, un bas-relief de facture indigéne et d’exécution trés 
grossiére, qui représentait une divinité anatolienne brandissant le foudre. Mais la moitié 
seulement de ce relief était visible. Nous le fimes completement dégager, et une inscription 
apparut, d’ailleurs fort effacée. Les premiéres lettres seulement en sont d’une lecture a 
peu prés certaine : ZwBy (ou Zwyy?) eg. La ressemblance entre ce nom et le nom actuel 
du village (Zougo ou Zoguz) est assurément frappante. La divinité représentée est feminine 
et cependant barbue. On peut rappeler que Zeus Stratios a été parfois vénéré sous la 
forme d’une idole androgyne.’ 

P. Foucart in the Mon. Prot 1910 xviii. 165 adds (after receipt of a photograph from 
F. Cumont): ‘Quant a Vinscription, je pense, comme M. Cumont, qu’il vaut mieux 
considérer Zw8y ou ZidBy comme un nom propre féminin, a rapprocher du nom d’homme 
ZwBes qui se rencontre dans des inscriptions d’Olbia [Corf. znscr. Gr. ii no. 2079, 6]; les 





Plate XXVIII 





Marble head of Zeus ZLabrdyndos (?), found at Mylasa and now in the 
Boston Museum of Fine Arts. 
See page 597 {. 


The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 597 


Suwasa and Zougo were remote villages, where barbarism 
lingered to the last. But Mylasa under Hekatomnos was the chief 
city of Karia, and must needs move with the times. Accordingly, 
though the old cult-image of Zeus Labrdyndos was still enshrined at 
Labranda, advancing civilisation began to demand that the god be 
represented after a newer and nobler pattern. Hekatomnos, as we 
have seen!, placed an improved type of him on the satrapal coinage. 
And it is likely enough that other attempts were made to raise the 
ancient deity above the level of semi-barbaric art. Interesting proof 
of this upward tendency has recently come to light in connexion with 
a magnificent head of Zeus, which passed from private ownership 
into the Boston Museum of Fine Arts (pl. xxviii). A. Furtwangler, 
shortly before his death, made a detailed and penetrating study of 
this masterpiece. His observations were to the following effect. 
The head is carved of a fine-grained marble, slightly bluish in tone. 
On the top of it is a round hole (5™ deep, by 1—14°™ broad) and 
further back an oblong dowel-hole (3°™ deep, 2°™ broad, 6&™ long). 
These marks presuppose that something light, made of metal, rested 
on the head: let us say, a kdlathos. Probably, too, the groove that 
separates the front hair from the crown of the head implies a metal 
wreath*®. The head (height of worked surface 0'48™) was inserted 
in the neck of a statue, which presumably wore a chztén concealing 
the insertion. And, if a chzton, doubtless a hzmdtion also. Since the 
god is turning his head somewhat towards his right, and since the 
right side of his head is more carefully finished than the left, it may 
be inferred that he was grouped with another figure, perhaps a 
seated female, on the left. The nearest stylistic parallels are to be 
found in the sculptures from the Mausoleum‘. And Furtwangler 


lettres Gea sont suivies d’autres lettres qui ne présentent aucun sens. Cette figure me 
parait €tre une répétition grossiére et altérée d’une divinité indigéne, armée de la foudre, 
a la poitrine de femme et barbue, en un mot, d’un type assez voisin de celui du Zeus de 
Labranda.’ 

1 Supra p. 576. 

* A. Furtwangler in the Text to Brunn—Bruckmann Denkm. der gr. und rim. Sculpt. 
pls. 572, 473. For other publications see H. Lechat Phzdzas Paris 
(1906) p. 175 fig. 17 (‘Téte d’une statue de Zeus, inspirée du Zeus de 
Phidias’), H. N. Fowler—J. R. Wheeler—G. P. Stevens 4 Handbook 
of Greek Archaeology New Y ork—Cincinnati—Chicago 1909 p. 231 f. 
fig. 173. 

® The head of Zeus Labrdyndos wearing laureate kalathos and 
bay-wreath with diadem occurs on a copper of Mylasa issued by 
Augustus (B77¢. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 130 pl. 22, I 
(=my fig. 500): cp. 2. p. 130 no. 19, Hunter Cat. Coins il. 425 
no. 1, and Imhoof-Blumer AVeinas. Miinzen i. 144 no. 1 silver of 
Augustus and Livia). 

+ Especially Brzt. Mus. Cat. Sculpture ii. 126 no. 1054 pl. 20, 1, Collignon Ast. de 





598 The double axe and Zeus Labrdyndos 


concludes that the artist was in all probability an Attic sculptor of 
the fourth century B.C., representing a non-Attic Zeus, some such 
deity as the Carian Zeus Labrdyndos with kdlathos, chitén, and 
himdtion. ‘In the new head from Asia Minor,’ he says, ‘I think we 
can catch for the first time a clearly perceptible echo of Pheidias’ 
great creation—not, of course, in the true Pheidiac style, but in the 
soft flowing lines of a contemporary of Praxiteles.’ This mention of 
Zeus Labrayndos was a conjecture worthy of the great critic. A fost 
scriptum by P. Arndt goes far to confirm it, vzz., a report from the 
previous owner of the head that it was actually discovered at Mylasa’. 

Zeus Labrayndos can hardly be separated from Zeus Labranios, 
whose precinct is still to be traced near Amathous in Kypros. The 
site was first detected by Cesnola. In 1877 he records?— 


‘another range of hills west of these ruins [sc. Amathous], on the summit of 
one of which, very difficult of ascent, situated between the two small villages of 
Aghios Dimitri and Fasuli®, I found the ruins of an elliptical structure measur- 
ing twenty-seven feet by sixteen. Its area was strewn with pieces of broken 
statues, upon two of which an eagle was carved. I discovered also on the bases 
of two life-size statues to which the feet still adhered, Greek characters roughly 
but deeply cut in the calcareous stone (see Appendix). I should have liked to 
explore this spot thoroughly, as these ruins are not improbably those of a 
temple dedicated to Jupiter, but I had brought neither a tent nor provisions with 
me,’ etc. 


One looks in vain for the inscriptions to Cesnola’s Appendix. They 
are in the Metropolitan Museum of Art at New York+, and were 
published in 1883 by I. H. Hall®, who adds important extracts from 


la Sculpt. gr. ii. 334 fig. 169. The style of the Boston head is happily expressed in 
Furtwangler’s words: ‘Es ist nicht die straffe und unnahbare Hoheit der phidiasischen 
Epoche, nicht das ruhelose stiirmische Wollen der Alexanderzeit, es ist ein freundliches, 
edel menschliches Wesen, das in schlichten, ruhigen und milden Formen hier sich 
ausspricht.’ 

1 Hence P. Arndt infers that the head represents Zeus Kérios or Osogda or Labrayndos 
or Strdtios. He cites the view of Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 124 f. that the 
colossal torso of a seated male figure from the Mausoleum (Sr2t. Mus. Cat. Sculpture ii. 
124 no. 1047), identified as a divinity—perhaps Zeus—by Sir C. T. Newton (4 History 
of Discoveries at Halicarnassus, Cnidus, and Branchide London 1862 ii. 1. 221), was 
rightly regarded by K. L. von Urlichs (Skopas’ Leben und Werke Greifswald 1863 p. 197 f.) 
as Zeus Labradyndos, the national god of Karia. But A. H. Smith Arzt. AZus. Cat. 
Sculpture ii. 124 justly remarks that ‘the figure would do equally well for Mausolos, or 
some other heroified ruler.’ 

2 L. P. di Cesnola Cyprus London 1877 p. 285. 

8 Ohnefalsch-Richter Ayfros p. 19 calls the village ‘ Pasoulla.’ 

4 J. L. Myres The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Handbook of the Cesnola collection 
of antiquities from Cyprus New York 1914 p. 322 nos. 1914, 1915 and p. 550 no. 1914 
’Odtdoas Ai AaBpaviw evéd|uevos dmédwxev, no. 1915 Anunrpis Al AaBpaviw evEdulevos 
amédwxev (I. H. Hall read evédue|vos arredwxn). 

> J. H. Hall ‘A Temple of Zeus Labranios in Cyprus’ in the Journal of the American 
Oriental Society 1885 xi Proceedings at New Haven, October 24—25, 1883 pp. clxvi— 


The double axe and Zeus Labrayndos 599 


Cesnola’s note-book. As to the elliptical temple, it appears that— 


‘the ellipse is truncated at one end, through the middle of which end was the 
entrance. Near the other end, inside, against either wall and opposite each 
other, are the pedestals (probably) of the two statues referred to.’ 


These statues were votive offerings by a man named Oliasas! and 
another named Demetris and may be dated between the third 
and the fifth centuries A.D. Fragments of a third statue seem to 
belong to the cult-image, though neither head nor double axe? were 
found. Hall saw that Zeus Ladrénios is simply the Cypriote equiva- 


lent of Zeus Labradyndos*, remarking that ‘this part of Cyprus was 
settled by Carians or Lycians.’ 

Whether the lupiter Laprivs mentioned by Lactantius‘is another 
form of the same deity, as M. Mayer’ supposes, is doubtful. O. Héfer® 
would find in him a Zeus Léphrios comparable with Apollon Laphrios 
and Artemis Laphréa. Others’ have thought of the Cretan Zeus 
Elaphrés. Anda corruption of Zeus Lapérszos* is a further possibility. 
All these and dozens of other names—Greek, Latin, Etruscan, 
Iberian, and Celtic—are regarded by W. Vollgraff? as metamorphoses 
of the same Protean /dérys. 


elxx, 7d. A Descriptive Atlas of the Cesnola Collection of Cypriote Antiquities in the 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York New York 1903 iii pl. 143 nos. I, 2. 

* Hall cp. Oliatos of Mylasa, one of the Ionian tyrants (Hdt. 5. 37). 

2 A tetrobol struck ¢c. 400 B.C. at some uncertain mint in Kypros has for obverse type 
a panther (?) scratching his right foreleg with his right hind paw. Above him is the head 
of a double axe and an inscription in Cypriote characters, which has been read as 
?Da-fw-to:oe-—— (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Cyprus p. 7t pl. 13, 12, Babelon A/onn. 
gr. rom. li. 2. 825 f. pl. 136, 18). Conceivably this stands for Zaw7rns, which occurs as 
a title of Zeus at Thespiai (Paus. 9. 26. 7 f.), and of Dionysos at Troizen (Paus. 2. 31. 5) 
and Lerne (Paus. 2. 37. 2), if not also at Thespiai (cp. Anth. Pal. 9. 603. 1 (Antipatros of 
Sidon)—referred by O. Benndorf to the Thespiades of Praxiteles). 

Zeus Labrdyndos (?) on a copper of Keramos is accompanied by a lioness (?) or 
panther (?) (szfra p. 575 n. 6); and it is on a lioness (?) or panther (?) that the Hittite 
bearer of the double axe stands at Boghaz-Keui (supra i. 599 n. 6, 603, 605 fig. 476, il. 
552, 560). 

3 [. H. Hall in the Journal of the American Oriental Society 1885 xi p. clxviii f. So 
also G. Karo in the Archiv f. Rel. 1904 vii. 124 f., J. Schaefer of. cet. p. 360f., J. L. Myres 
Op. Cit. P- 322. 

4 Supra p. 588 n. I. 

5 M. Mayer in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1506 (correcting Laprios into Labrios). 

6 ©. Hofer in Roscher Lex Myth. ii. 1850. 

7 Ae. Forcellini af. De Vit Onxomasticon iii. 736, citing Hesych. Edappés* evBdoraxros, 
Kodpos. 7 Leds év Kpirn, where W. Dindorf af. Stephanum Zhes. Gr. Ling. iii. 687 D 
wrongly assumes confusion with Fedxavés. Cp. Schdll—Studemund avecd. i. 265 no. 39 
éhapplov (sc. Ards), 266 no. 26 édagplov (sc. Ards). On the Cnidian month ’Edd¢pios see 
W. Dittenberger in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. v. 2234. 

8 Infra Append. I. 

9 W. Vollgraff ‘ AdBpus’ in the Rhein. Mus. 1906 |xi. 149—-165—one of the wildest 
articles ever perpetrated in the name of ‘ Philologie.’ 


600 The double axe and the Labyrinth 


(0) The double axe and the Labyrinth. 


M. Mayer! was the first to suggest that the word Ladyrinthos, 
the ‘ Labyrinth,’ should be brought into the same connexion and so 
taken to denote ‘the place of the Double Axe.’ A few years later a 
similar view was expressed independently by P. Kretschmer?. And 
this opinion, despite certain doubts and difficulties’, has won its way 
to almost universal acceptance*. I share in the general conviction, 
and am here concerned merely to emphasise two aspects of the 
central fact. 

One is this. The Cretan Ladyrinthos is the equivalent of the 
Carian Labrdynda, Ldbranda both in point of its main formative 
element (/éérys) and in point of its suffix (zth=nd)°*. If, therefore, 
we were right in thinking that Ldbranda was called ‘the place of 
the Double Axe’ because repeatedly struck by lightning*®, we must 
give a like explanation of Ladyrinthos. The place where the light- 
ning fell in the form of the sky-god’s axe would be deemed specially 
sacred to the sky-god. And mimetic dances in his honour provide 
the requisite transition from Labyrinthos, ‘the place of the Double 
Axe,’ to the classical Labyrinth, a dancing-ground made by Daidalos 


1 M. Mayer in the Jahré. d. hais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1892 vii. 191 (AaBdpwOos is for 
*\aBptvOvos, a possible adjectival form of \dBpus). 

2 P. Kretschmer Zinleitung in die Geschichte der Griechischen Sprache Gottingen 1896 
p- 404 (AaBvpuvAos is a Cretan corruption of the Carian AaSpauréos or its alternative form 
AaBpavur dos). , 

3 See the objections summarised by Gruppe JZjth. Lit. 1908 p. 266. L#.g. G. de 
Sanctis in the Rivista di filologia 1902 xxx. 100 f. observes that the double axe is repre- 
sented in other structures (Phaistos) of the Cretan civilisation beside the palace at Knossos ; 
why then should this alone have been termed ‘the House of the Double Axe’? And 
W. H. D. Rouse in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 274 notes ‘the metathesis of v which 
is unexampled.’ E. Assmann too in Philologus 1908 xvii. 190 f. complains of ‘ Der Ein- 
schub, die Epenthese eines v zwischen 8 und p.’ (But have we not an analogous case in 
laburnum? The ancients may have fancied a resemblance to the \dpus in its flowers. 
Cp. BéXexus supra p. 588 n. o.) 

4 It has commended itself not only to archaeologists such as Sir A. J. Evans in the 
Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 109, H. R. Hall The Oldest Civilization of Greece London 
Igor p. 294 n. 1, 7a. The Ancient History of the Near East London 1913 p- 53 n. 6, 2a. 
Egean Archeology London 1915 p. 152, R. Dussaud Les cévilisations préhelléniques dans 
le bassin de la mer Egée Paris 1910 p. 209, etc., but also to professed philologists such as 
Prellwitz Ztym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr” p. 256 and Boisacq Dict. éym. de la Langue Gr. 
p- 548. 

R. M. Burrows Zhe Discoveries in Crete London 1907 p. 117 ff. (with Appendix B by 
R. S. Conway) prefers to connect AaBvpwos, AaBpduvda, etc. with Aavpa, a ‘ passage,’ 
Aav’perov, a ‘Passage place.’ On this showing AaBvpwéos, AaBpdvvda would signify 
properly a ‘ place of Passages.’ Phonetically this appears to be possible. But? 

5 P. Kretschmer of. cit. p. 293 ff., R. S. Conway in the Azz. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901— 
1902 vill. 154 ff., A. Fick Vorgriechische Ortsnamen Gottingen 1905 p. 28 (citing Steph. 
Byz. DvpwAos* wédcs Kpyrns but Ivpwdos: wéds Kapias). 

5 Supra p. 586. 


Ee 


Oe eer Fee ee eee 


The double axe and the abarum 601 


for Ariadne'. The mediaeval maze with its cze/? still retains a vestige 
of the original significance. 

Again, the whole history of the /éérys in Asia Minor shows that 
it was essentially the weapon of a god, not a goddess. And this 
holds good for Crete as well as for Karia*, ,The Cretan double axe 
was, in my opinion, primarily the attribute of Kronos‘ and only 
secondarily, if at all, the attribute of Rhea. With the fall of the 
‘Minoan’ civilization the axe passed from the old sky-god Kronos 
to the new sky-god Zeus’, throughout preserving its character as 
the tangible token of the lightning-flash. 


(ce) The double axe and the Jabarum. 


In 312 A.D. Constantine the Great crossed the Alps to attack 
Maxentius and pitched his camp over against the Mulvian Bridge 
near Rome. Lactantius*®, a contemporary authority (c. 314 A.D.), is 
careful to add that October 27, the anniversary of the day on which 
Maxentius had been proclaimed emperor, was approaching and that 
the Quinquennalia, four-yearly contests in honour of Iupiter Capz- 
tolinus’, were drawing to a close. These contests began on October 
15 and were originally connected with the temple of Iupiter Fere- 
trius*, whose special attribute was the feretrum or cross-shaped 
trophy-stand® suggestive of the spolia opima. Such were the circum- 


1 Supra i. 481. 2 Supra i. 486. 

3 T agree with H. R. Hall 4gean Archeology London 1918 p. 152: ‘Since the Double 
Axe, the AdBpus, was the special emblem of the Carian Zeus at Labraunda, it would 
appear that this national weapon was (as would naturally be expected) the emblem of the 
god rathet than of the goddess. The Knossian Palace was probably one of the chief seats 
of the worship of the god, and as such obtained its traditional name of \aBvpu Gos, the 
Labyrinth, ‘‘the Place of the Double Axe.”’ Also with D. Mackenzie in the Ann. Bret. 
Sch. Ath. 1905—1906 xii. 219: ‘the cult of the God of the Labrys or Double Axe, which 
was common to Caria with Crete, does not necessarily lead us to the assumption of 
derivation either way. On the hypothesis of racial affinity between the people of Caria 
and the prehistoric inhabitants of Crete, the cult of the divinity in question may be native 
to south-west Anatolia, equally with Crete, without any need for the perilous assumption 
that it was from Caria the divinity passed to Crete. If the assumption of derivation one 
way or the other were to be at all admitted, the probability in the circumstances would 
appear more feasible were the derivation regarded as having been the other way about.’ 

+ Supra p. 543 ff. 5 Supra p. 554 ff. 

6 Lact. de mortibus persecutorum 44 imminebat dies quo Maxentius imperium ceperat, 
qui est a. d. sextum Kalendas Novembres, et quinquennalia terminabantur. commonitus 
est in quiete Constantinus, ut caeleste signum dei notaret in scutis atque ita proelium 
committeret. facit ut iussus est et transversa X littera, summo capite circumflexo, x¢ p@ (so 
I would restore the manuscript’s xo. S. Baluzius defended cévcumflexo Christo. S. Brandt 
and G. Laubmann, after Cuperus and others, read Cristwm) in scutis notat. quo signo 
armatus exercitus capit ferrum. 

7 Cp. Suet. Dom. 4 instituit et quinquennale certamen Capitolino Iovi etc. 

8 Wissowa Rel, Kult. Rom.” p. 117. 

9 Supra p. 109. 


602 The double axe and the /adarum 


stances in which Constantine had his famous dream. Lactantius 
continues: 


‘Constantine while resting was warned to put the celestial sign of God as a 
mark upon his shields and so to give battle. He did as he was bidden and, set- 
ting the letter X aslant and bending round its topmost end, marked ch? rd upon 
the shields. Armed with this sign his soldiers advanced to the fight.’ 


The sign intended is almost certainly p', and it is highly probable 
that in this we should recognise a time-serving modification of 
Iupiter’s trophy-cross. 

Eusebios ten years later (c. 324 A.D.)? omits the dream, but states 
that after the victory over Maxentius Constantine had his own statue 
erected in the most public place at Rome with ‘the trophy of the 
Saviour’s passion’ beneath his hand and ‘the saving sign of the’ 
cross’ on his right hand, a Latin inscription imputing his success ‘to 
this sign of salvation, this true token of valour.’ 

The same author in his Lz/e of Constantine (337 A.D.)* claims to 


1 E. Venables in Smith—Cheetham Dict. Chr. Ant. ii. gog says: ‘ ‘‘transversa X 
litera, summo capite circumflexo (z.e. with a line drawn through the middle and turned 
into a loop at the top, forming the letter 2/0) Christum in scutis notat.”* We thus obtain 
x , no doubt; but we cannot legitimately extract it from Lactantius’ Latin,—at least I do 
not see how ¢vansversa X “itera is to mean ‘a line being drawn through the letter X.’ 

B. Schremmer Labarum und Steinaxt Tiibingen rgt1 p. 1: ‘also >< oder P.’ But 
the first of these two is surely excluded by samo capite; for, if X be laid on its side as 
> , it has, to speak strictly, no sammum caput. 

2 Euseb. hist. eccl. 9. 9 abrika <76 (inserui)> Tod cwrnpiov tpdmaov maddous bird xEtpa 
ldlas elxdvos dvareOjvar mpootdtrer: Kal Oi) TO cwrhpLoy TOO oTavpod onuelov émi TH Seka 
katéxovTa avrov é€v Tw uddiora Tay émt ‘Pdyuns Sednuooteumévw TOrw oTHoaYTES, a’THY OH 
Tatty vmoypapny évrdiar pnuacw avrots TH ‘Pwyaiwy éykeNeverar wry’ ‘ TOTwY TH TwT7- 
pusder onuelw, TH anOuw@ éehéyxw Tis dvdpeias, x.7.r.’ Cp. the parallel description in 
Euseb. v. Comst. 1. 40. 

3 Euseb. uv. Const. 1. 28—31 trans. E. C. Richardson (in H. Wace—P. Schaff A select 
Library of Nicene and post-Nicene Fathers of the Christian Church Oxford—New York 
1890 i. 490f.). The actual sign and the imitation of it are described in the following 
terms: I. 28 dugi pweonuBpias Arlov wpas, Hdn TAS Nuépas arokwovens, avrots 6POahpois 
idety pn ev adr@ ovpay@ brepxeiwevoy Tod FAlov cTavpod Tpbmaoy ex Pwrds cvvicTdmuevor, 
ypapny Te alta cw7jpba Néyouoay* ToUTH vika.... I. 31 Hv O€ ToL@dE oXHMATL KaTETKEVAC- 
bévov. bynddv Sdpu xpvoe@ kaTrnupiecuevoy Képas eixev eyKdpovov [oravpod cxHmaTL TeToLn- 
wévov (seclusit J. A. Heikel)], dvw 6€ wpds &xpw rod mavtos orépavos éx AiBwv TohvTENGv 
kal xpvood cummemNeyuévos KaTeoTHpLKTO, Kad? ov THS cwrnplov émnyopias Td cUuBoror, dvo 
oToxeta Td Xptorod mapadndobyra dvoua [dia THY mpdrwy IrecHuavov XapaxTHpwy (seclusit 
J. A. Heikel)], xuafoudvou rod pO xara 76 wecairarov’ ad Oh Kai KaTa TOU Kpdvous Pépeww 
elwOe Kav Tois wera TadTA xXpdvois 6 Bacied’s. Tod dé waylou Képws TOU KaTa TO Odpu TeTap- 
pévou d0dvn Tis éexxpeuhs dmnwpyro, Bacitkov Vpacma mokidia cwnumevwv TohuTEAGy NiGwv 
guwrds abyats éLactparrévrwv KaduTréuevoy oily TONG TE KabvPacuevoy XpvT@G, adijynrov 
TL XpHma Tots opGor mapéxov Too KadAous. TovTO mev ov TO Papos TOU Képws cEnumevor 
oUpMETpov punKous TE Kal TAdTOUS Teprypapny amedduBave* TOO dpOLov Sdpu, THs KaTw apx7s 
émi Todd unkuvduevoy dvw weréwpov, brd TH TOV aTavpod Tpotalw mpos avTots aKpos TOD 
Siaypapévros ipdouartos THy Tod Deodidods Bacidéws elxdva xpvonv méxpt aTépyev TOV 7’ 
avrov maidwy ouolws epeper. 























_ The double axe and the fabarum 603 


have had a detailed account of the vision from the lips of the victor 
himself : 


‘He said that about noon, when the day was already beginning to decline, he 
saw with his own eyes the trophy of a cross of light in the heavens, above the 
sun, and bearing the inscription, CONQUER BY THIS. At this sight he himself 
was struck with amazement, and his whole army also, which followed him on 
this expedition, and witnessed the miracle. He said, moreover, that he doubted 
within himself what the import of this apparition could be. And while he con- 
tinued to ponder and reason on its meaning, night suddenly came on; then in 
his sleep the Christ of God appeared to him with the same sign which he had 
seen in the heavens, and commanded him to make a likeness of that sign which 
he had seen in the heavens, and to use it as a safeguard in all engagements with 
his enemies. At dawn of day he arose, and communicated the marvel to his 
friends: and then, calling together the workers in gold and precious stones, he 
sat in the midst of them, and described to them the figure of the sign he had 
seen, bidding them represent it in gold and precious stones. And this representa- 
tion I myself have had an opportunity of seeing. Now it was made in the following 
manner. A long spear, overlaid with gold, formed the figure of the cross by 
means of a transverse bar laid over it. On the top of the whole was fixed a 
wreath of gold and precious stones; and within this, the symbol of the Saviour’s 
name, two letters indicating the name of Christ by means of its initial characters, 
the letter P being intersected by X in its centre: and these letters the emperor 
was in the habit of wearing on his helmet at a later period. From the cross-bar 
of the spear was suspended a cloth, a royal piece, covered with a profuse em- 
broidery of most brilliant precious stones; and which, being also richly interlaced 
with gold, presented an indescribable degree of beauty to the beholder. This 
banner was of a square form, and the upright staff, whose lower section was of 
great length, bore a golden half-length portrait of the pious emperor and his 
children on its upper part, beneath the trophy of the cross, and immediately 
above the embroidered banner. The emperor constantly made use of this sign 
of salvation as a safeguard against every adverse and hostile power, and com- 
manded that others similar to it should be carried at the head of all his armies!’ 


The celestial sign described by Eusebios as ‘the trophy of a cross of 
light’ may be identical with that described by Lactantius. But the 
standard made in imitation of it was more elaborate and involved 
some new features. In particular, while retaining the old feretrum 
or trophy-cross as the support for an embroidered banner, it added 
at the top of all a wreath containing the monogram >. And this 
fresh symbol was from the outset accepted as an essential part of 
the Christian standard. C. M. Kaufmann’, building on the labours 
of F. W. Madden’, has constructed a useful chronological table of 


1 See further Euseb. v. Const. 2. 3, 2. 6—Q, 2. 12, 4. 21, Sokr. fest. eccl. 1. 2 (Ixvil. 37 
Migne), Sozom. fast. eccl. 1. 3 f. (Ixvii. 865, 868 Migne), Gelasios of Kyzikos 1. 4 (Ixxxv. 
1204 B—C Migne). 

2 C. M. Kaufmann Handbuch der christlichen Archaologie Paderborn 1913 p. 642 f. 

3 F. W. Madden ‘Christian Emblems on the Coins of Constantine I. the Great, his 
Family, and his Successors’ in the Mum. Chron. New Series 1877 xvii. 11—56 pl. 1, 
242—307 pl. 7 f., 26. 1878 xviii. 1—48 pl. 1 f., 169—215 pls. 8—ro. 


604 The double axe and the /abarum 


the monograms and crosses found on the coinage of Constantine 
etc. He maintains that already in 312(?)—317 the forms & * ¥K x 
occur on coins struck at Siscia in Pannonia Superior, the form > on 
others struck at Tarraco on the east coast of Spain. But J. Maurice 
in his great work on Constantinian numismatics has given grounds 
for placing these mintagesa few years later. According to him, the 
eighth issue at Siscia, comprising coins struck from 317 to 320, 
decorates the helmet of the emperor with two distinct forms of the 
Christian monogram—X for CH Ristés on the central band and x 
for /esouis CHrisiés to either side of it (fig. 501)!, whereas the sixth 
issue at Tarraco, comprising coins struck between 320 and 324, has 





Fig. 501. 


x only as a moneyer’s mark in the field of the reverse (fig. 502). 
P. Bordeaux’, criticising the notion that two Christian monograms 
were thus used simultaneously and indifferently, contends that * is 
a regularised form of >, which is merely & writ small. Bordeaux 
may well be right. In any case the monogram & underwent many 
variations of shape, not on coins alone, but on monuments of all 
sorts‘. A few fourth-century examples, found in our own country, 
are listed by T. Morgan and J. Romilly Allen®. Thus a fine mosaic 
pavement in the evedra of a Roman villa at Frampton in Dorset 
associates the Christian monogram (fig. 505) with the head of Nep- 
tunus and other pagan designs®. Again, in another villa at Chedworth 


1 J. Maurice Mumismatigue Constantinienne Paris 1911 ii. 287 with fig., 329 ff. pl. 10, 
4 (=my fig. 501) and 5. 

2 Td. ib. ii. 262 ff. pl. 8, 7 (=my fig. 502), 8—ro des. 

3 P, Bordeaux in the Rev. Zt. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 89—91. 

4 See e.g. W. Lowrie Christian Art and Archeology New York 1gor p. 238 ff., H. 
Leclercq Manuel d’archéologie chrétienne Paris 1907 ii. 383 ff., 7d. in F. Cabrol Diction- 
naire a’archéologie chrétéenne et de liturgie Paris 1907 i. 177 ff., E. Venables in Smith— 
Cheetham Dzct. Chr. Ant. ii. 908 ff., A. Hauck in Zhe New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia 
of Religious Knowledge ed. S. M. Jackson New York—London 1910 vi. 167 ff. 

> T. Morgan Romano-British Mosaic Pavements London 1886 pp. 80, 211 ff., J. 
Romilly Allen Zarly Christian Symbolism in Great Britain and Ireland London 1887 
PP: 74—77 fig. 2, 1 f. (=my figs. 503, 504) and 3 (=my fig. 505). 

8 S. Lysons Religuie Britannico-Romaneé London 1813 i. 3. 1 ff. pl. 5—summarised 
by C. W. Bingham in Zhe Archaeological Journal 1859 xvi. 186 f., 2b. 1865 xxii. 345. 
See further A. H. Lyell 4 bibliographical list descriptive of Romano- British architectural 
Remains in Great Britain Cambridge 1912 p. 1g, and, for the accompanying inscriptions, 
E. Hiibner in the Corg, zuscr. Lat. vii no. 2. 


The double axe and the /edarum 605 


in Gloucestershire a stone, which forms the under part of the founda- 


* 


Fig. 503. Fig. 504. Fig. 505. 





tion of steps leading into the corridor, has two similar monograms 
(figs. 503, 504) carved upon it. Among the numerous specimens in 











Figs. 506— 509. 


1 J. Buckman—R. W. Hall Notes on the Roman Villa at Chedworth, Gloucestershire 
Cirencester 1872. For bibliography see A. H. Lyell of. cit. p. 29 f. 


606 The double axe and the /gbarum 


other countries we notice the gilded glasses from the catacombs of 
Rome?!. Here St Peter and St Paul appear as supporters on either 
side of the monogram (figs. 506—509), which is sometimes set on 
the top of a pillar (figs. 508, 509). The two saints in this grouping 
are suggestive of ‘Dioscuric’ influence®, 

The standard bearing the symbol X is called labarus by Hege- 
monius? (first half of s. iv), Zabarum by Ambrose’ (388 A.D.), Pruden- 
tius® (402 A.D.), and later writers’—the word being Grecised® as 
lébaron®, léboron”, lébouron™, léboron®”. Its derivation has been much 


1H. Vopel Dze altchristliche Goldgliser Freiburg 1899, O. M. Dalton ‘The gilded 
glasses of the Catacombs’ in Zhe Archaeological Journal 1901 \viii. 227—253, td. British 
Museum: A Guide to the early Christian and Byzantine Antiquities s.l. 1903 pp- 59—63, 
td. Byzantine Art and Archaeology Oxford 1911 p. 613 f., Forrer Reallex. p. 295 pl. 72, 
A. Kisa Das Glas im Altertume Leipzig 1908 iii. 834—g00, C. M. Kaufmann Yanabuch 
der christlichen Archdologie Paderborn 1913 pp. 619—624. 

2 R. Garrucci Storvza della arte cristiana nei primi otto secoli della chiesa Prato 1881 
ili. 146 f., 151 pl. 180, 1 (=my fig. 507), 2 (=my fig. 508), 3 (=my fig. 509), 9 (=my 
fig. 506). 

3 Textile fabrics of s. vi—vii (?) at Crefeld (O. M. Dalton Byzantine Art and Archaeo- 
Jogy Oxford 1911 p. 598 fig. 377) and from the shrine of St Servatius at Maestricht 
(F. Fischbach Ornament of textile fabrics London 1883 p. 3 pl. 3, A, G. Migeon Les arts 
du tissu Paris 1909 p. 20 fig.) represent the Dioskouroi standing side by side on the top 
of a short fluted column or altar with a ducranium at its base, while from right and left 
winged figures pour libations and attendants bring oxen to sacrifice. 

4 Hegemonius acta Archelai 41.9 f. p. 61, 8 ff. (ed. C. H. Beeson Leipzig 1906) non 
plane, non ita obscure et ignobiliter adveniet ille qui perfectus est, id est Iesus Christus 
dominus noster. sed sicut rex adveniens ad urbem suam praemittit primo protectores 
suos, signa, dracones, labaros, duces, principes, praefectos, et universa continuo commo- 
ventur, aliis vero metuentibus, aliis vero gaudentibus pro expectatione regis, ita et dominus 
meus Iesus, qui etc. So Fulgentius of Ruspe sevm. 60 de S. Laurentio (\xv. 930 C Migne) 
super labaros fulget terreni regis triumphus martyris confessoris; etc. Ducange G/oss. 
med. et inf. Lat. s.v. ‘labarum’ cites also ‘Glossae Mss.: Labarus, lata lancea vel 
vexillum.’ 

> Ambros, epzst. 40.9 (xvi. 1105 A Migne) quid si alii timidiores, dum mortem reformi- 
dant, offerant ut de suis facultatibus reparetur synagoga; aut comes ubi hoc compererit 
primo constitutum, ipse de christianorum censu exaedificari iubeat ? habebis, imperator, 
comitem praevaricatorem, et huic vexilla committes victricia, huic labarum, hoc est, 
Christi sacratum nomine, qui synagogam instauret, quae Christum nesciat? iube labarum 
synagogae inferri, videamus si non resistunt (Ambrose to Theodosios @ frofos of a certain 
synagogue in the east burnt at the instigation of a bishop, who has been bidden by the 
emperor to rebuild it). 

6 Prudent. c. Symm. 1. 486 ff. Christus purpureum gemmanti textus in auro | signabat 
labarum, clypeorum insignia Christus | scripserat, ardebat summis crux addita cristis. 

7 De Vit Lat. Lex. s.v. ‘labarum,’ Ducange Gloss. med. et inf. Lat. s.v. ‘labarum.’ 

8 E. A. Sophocles Greek Lexicon of the Roman and Byzantine Periods Boston 1870 
Pp: 702. 

9 Germanus, bishop of Constantinople and patriarch, efzs¢. dogmaz. 1 (xcviil. 149 A—B 
Migne) tyetcOac mpoordéas (sc. 0 Oeds) év TH TapeuBorrn THs Xpicrod Bactdrelas TO évdotov 
dvTws Kai émlonwov AdBapov, Tov Sworrowy Néyw orTavpdy, TO éya KaTa TOU Bavarou THs 
avrod meyanerdTnTos Tpbmatov* K.T.A. 

For notes ro, 11, and 12 see p. 607. 


The double axe and the 4abarum 607 


discussed. Gibbon? long since noted ‘the efforts of the critics, who 
have ineffectually tortured the Latin, Greek, Spanish, Celtic, Teu- 
tonic, Illyric, Armenian, &c, in search of an etymology.’ And E. 
Venables? as late as 1908 declared it to be ‘most probably of Basque 
origin’! Meantime in 1903 E. Conybeare* had solved the problem: 
a modest foot-note in his Roman Lritain puts the matter in a nut- 
shell—‘ The Sacred Monogram known as Labvarum. Both name and 
emblem were very possibly adapted from the primitive cult of the 
Labrys, or Double Axe, filtered through Mithraism.’ The value of 
this acute suggestion obviously depends on the possibility of citing, 
not merely isolated examples of the Constantinian monogram from 
dates prior to that of Constantine’, but rather a connected series of 
formal links between the /édrys and dabarum. Accordingly in 1908 
I published the following diagram (fig. 510)’, which inserts a series of 
intermediate symbols taken in chronological order from the coinage 
of the Graeco-Scythian kings (s, 11i—i B.C.). E. Rapp® had already 
in 1866 brought these symbols into connexion with the dadarum, 
though not with the /dérys, and had assumed that they were solar 


1 Tn Euseb. v. Const. ind. p. 5, 4 f. Heikel Xa’. "Expats cravpoerdods onuetou, brep 
viv oi “Pwuator \4Bapov kadodow codd, T.V. read AdBopor, but V? has a over the first o. 

A Latin form with 0 is attested by Greg. Naz. or. 4 (contra Iulianum 1). 66 (xxxv. 
588 Aa—B Migne) rodwa 6€ 46n Kal Kara Tod weyddov cuvOjnmaros, 6 werd TOD oraupod 
Toumever, Kal dyer TOV oTpaTov els UWos aipduevoy, KawaTwy AUTHpLOV ov TE Kal KaTa  Pwwatous 
dvomafouevov Kal Baotedov, ws dv elrror Tis, TOV AaTrav cvvOnudTwy* x.r.’. And Ducange 
loc. cxt. quotes laborum for labarwm from sundry late sources. In cod. Theod. 6. 25 de 
praepositis laborum (=cod. Iustin. 12. 18) qui...praepositi laborum nostro iudicio et 
stipendiorum sudoribus promoventur the manuscripts’ reading /aborum has been defended 
by the fifth-century carmen de Jona (formerly ascribed to Tertullian) 4o f. palpitat antemna 
stridens, labor horret ab alto, | ipsa etiam infringi dubitans inflectitur arbor. But in cod. 
Theod. we should probably read the gen, plur. /abororum and in carmen de Lona the 
nom. sing. /aborum. 

1 Const. Porphyrogen. de certm. aulae Byzant, 1, 1 (i. 11 Reiske) kal Ta oKevn Tov 
dpakovaplwy, AdBoupa Te Kal kaumndnkrdpia, I append. (i. 502 Reiske) iorapévwv kai mpo- 
Topevoevav éumporbev avtay Tav cKkevov, KaBovpwr, ciyvwy K.T.D, 

2 Sozom. Azst. eccl. 1. 4 (Ixvii. 868 A Migne) 6 Bacideds exédXeveey dvdpas émuoTHmovas 
Xpvo@ Kai NLOors Teutoes els oTavpod cUuBoov peTacKevdoat TO Tapa “Pwualors Kaovmevor 
AdBwpor, g. 4 (Ixvii. 1605 A Migne) Odrepoy dé rOv cxjrTpwv, 6 AdBwpov ‘Pawar Kadoior, 
Kal ypaupata Baothéws AaBow K.T.r. 

1 E. Gibbon The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire London 178r 
ii. 194 n. 33. 

2 E. Venables in Smith—Cheetham Dict. Chr. Ant. ii. gog. 

3 E. Conybeare Roman Britain London 1903 p. 228 n. 2. 

+ See e.g. O. Zoeckler The Cross of Christ trans. M. J. Evans London 1877 p. 127 ff., 
J. D. Parsons The Non-Christian Cross London 1896 pp. 147—162 (‘ The Monogram of 
Christ’), J. B. Bury Appendix 19 on chap. 20 of Gibbon of. céz. London 18096 ii. 565 ff. 

° In the Zransactions of the Third International Congress for the History of Religions 
Oxford 1908 ii. 192 fig. 17. 

6 E. Rapp ‘Das Labarum und der Sonnencultus’ in the Jahrd. d. Vereins v. Alter- 
thumsfreund, 7m Rheinl. 1866 xxxix—xl. 116—145 pl. 2. 


608 The double axe and the “eéarum 


emblems adopted as an equivocal device by an emperor who wished 
to conciliate pagans and Christians alike. Finally in 1911 B. Schrem- 
mer’, not realising that he had been anticipated by E. Conybeare, 
announced the derivation of /abarum from /débrys as a discovery of 
his own*. He is, however, right in insisting’, as against Rapp, that 
the Graeco-Scythian symbols are not solar signs at all, but mere 


DINER 


Euthydemos |. Eukratides. Apollodotosii. 
LABRYS 208 Bic. c 175-50 B.c. c.loo s.c. 
Apollodotosii. Zoilos. Hippostratos. | 
c.loo B.c. c.80?.B.c. c.70 B.c. LABARVYM. 
Fig. 510. 


combinations of letters, which represent the name of the moneyer 
or a mint-mark of some sort‘. This—as I now admit—makes it 
highly improbable that we should see in them the connecting links 
between /dbrys and labarum. Again, Schremmer justly demurs® to 
a view put forward in 1884 by L. Jeep®, vzz. that Constantine’s sign 
f was not, originally at least, a Christian monogram, but a semi- 
cursive form of the astrological symbol $, which stands for the 


1 B. Schremmer Ladarum und Stetnaxt Tiibingen 19g1t pp. I—51—a convenient little 
volume, to which I am indebted for several references both ancient and modern. 

2a gb wp. Tait S idab.p. 13. 

4 See Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Greek and Scythic Kings p. lvf., E. J. Rapson J/zdiax 
Coins (in J. G. Bithler Grandriss der Indo-Arischen Philologie und Altertumskunde ii. 3 B) 
Strassburg 1897 p. 6 f., V. A. Smith Catalogue of the Coins in the Indian Museum Calcutta 
Oxford 1906 p. 7 pls. vii, x, xviii. 

5 B. Schremmer of. cz¢. p. 14. 

6 L. Jeep ‘Zur Geschichte Constantin des Grossen’ in Aistorische und philologische 
Aufsatie Ernst Curtius zu seinem stebenzigsten Geburtstage...gewidmet Berlin 1884 


pp. 81—89. 


i 


a 


The double axe and the /adarum 609 


lucky star of Venus’. Having disposed of a solar and of a stellar 
hypothesis, Schremmer attacks the problem de xovo, indeed aé ovo. 
Surveying the whole history of the double axe, he argues that in the 
Stone Age and the Bronze Age it was worshipped first as ‘ein selb- 
standiges Zauberwerkzeug”’ and then as the attribute of some deity; 
that in Asia Minor, to judge from numismatic evidence, the sacred 
weapon, there called the /dbrys, survived, usually as a divine attribute, 
far into the historic period (¢. 400 B.C.—c. 200 A.D.); that it received 
a fresh lease of life from its association with Iupiter Do/zchenus, the 
Roman army taking it, under its old name’, as his attribute through 
Pannonia and Raetia into Germany and Gaul; that in the north 
like met like, when the double axe of Iupiter encountered the ham- 
mer of Donar; and that from the north Constantine brought a 
military s¢gvum, bearing the ancient name of /abarum, to which later 
the monogram of Christ was attached. Very ingeniously, but also 
very improbably, Schremmer supposes that Constantine ascribed 
his victories to the possession of an actual /édrys and finds a dis- 
torted allusion to it in a curious passage of Nikephoros Kallistos+. 
That belated historian (s. xiv A.D.) tells how Constantine brought a 
big porphyry pillar from Rome to Constantinople’, set upon it a 
bronze effigy of himself holding in his right hand a large golden 
apple surmounted by the cross, and buried beneath its base a variety 
of sacred relics including ‘the axe with which Noah made the ark.’ 
The big pillar still stands in a square at Stamboul marking the site 


! This symbol, usually regarded as the mirror of Venus (A. Bouché-Leclercq L’astvo- 
logie grecque Paris 1899 p. xix), is explained by Jeep Joc. czt. p. 89 as a derivative of # 
(= dwoépos). 

2 B. Schremmer of. cz¢. p. 21. 

% Id. ib. p. 40 notes Laburus as the name of a god worshipped near Emona (Zazbach) 
in Pannonia Superior (Orelli Zzscr. Lat. sed. no. 2017= Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 4877 
= Corp. tnscr. Lat. iii no. 3840 Laburo | ex vot. | sacr. | etc.), Zabavo(?) as perhaps the 
name of a god in a Spanish inscription (M. Ihm in Roscher Zex. Myth. ii. 1775 citing 
Corp. inscr. Lat. ii no. 732 (San Vincente near Norba in Lusitania) Labaro. n.e.n. | leg. 
p(ro ?). s(e ?). s(uisque?). l.m), and Zaéarzs as the name of a Gallic soldier (Sil. It. 4. 232). 

4 Nikephoros Kallistos Aést. eccl. 7. 49 (i. 519 f. Ducaeus) év d€ TG értheyoudvy és Sedpo 
Kwvoraytively popw kal Tov roppupoby péy.otov Klova dvacrioas, dv éx Pduns qydyero, émt 
ToUT®@ Tov EaUTOU avopidyTa dviorn TeTonucvoy xahkov. ev @ Kal xpUceov uHdov péyLoToV 
TH dekiG Karéxwv Xeupl emdvw Tov Tiwmwoy KaTemiyru oTavpoy éemvypawas Tatra’ ‘ool, Xporé 
6 Gebs, TapariOnus THv wodw TavTnV.’ awWior bé oTEppals TécoapoL THY TOU oTIoU TepiKUKAW 
Bdow édpdoas, vroKatw THs ToD aTbdov Bdcews Tods 1B’ Kodivous Kal Tas ¢’ omupidas, ere dé 
kal Tovs ¢’ dprous, ods evAoyias KaTakiwoas Xpicrds Ta AION HEOpeWev, ere Se Kal ri Too 
NGe déivny, 7 Thy KiBwrov érexthvato, autos idiats xepolv 6 Bacie’s TO oppayioThpe onudvas 
karé0ero kal viv és éué TH oder dovdos Onoaupds mapauévovcr. 

> Hesych. Illustr. of Miletos warpia Kwvoravrwovméd\ews 41 p. 17, 13 ff. Preger 
(s. vi A.D.) Kal 6 moppupots Kal meplBderros klwy, éd’ odrep idpicba Kwvorartivory dpamuev 
dixnvy 7Alov mpoddurrovTa Tots moirats=Anonymos arpa 45 p. 138, 11 ff. Preger. See 
further E. Oberhummer in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iv. 987. 


rones i 39 


610 The double axe and the “cbarum 


of Constantine’s Forum. But it is a charred ruin®. The statue on 
it was upset by a great south wind in 1105 A.D.? The porphyry 
drums were encircled by bands of iron before 1561 A.D.4 The four 
marble steps then visible® were concealed, probably after the fire of 
1779 A.D., by a clumsy cloak of masonry®. Does the base yet guard 
the axe of Noah as part of its ‘inviolable treasure”’? 

Schremmer looks to the Germanic north for an explanation of 
the /abarum. 1 should look rather to the east, where Constantine 
had served under Galerius for the best part of a decade (296— 
306 A.D.). When we remember, on the one hand, the vé/e played by 
the double axe in the religion of Phrygia’, on the other, the fact 
that Noah in the ark appears on coins of the Phrygian Apameia 
Kibotos from the end of the second to the middle of the third cen- 
tury A.D.°, it does not seem extravagant to conjecture that the axe 
of Noah was but the ancient Anatolian /dbrys, in a novel Jewish 
disguise. Indeed, it is more than probable that in the near east the 
cult of the /éérys, under various modifications, lingered on through- 
out the early centuries of the Christian era. F. Legge” has recently 
drawn attention to the Ophite diagram of the supramundane region, 
which included two pairs of concentric circles, the one pair inscribed 
‘Father’ and ‘Son, the other pair coloured yellow and blue, and 
between them a barrier in the form of a double axe". The original 


1 J. Ebersolt Constantinople Byzantine et les Voyageurs du Levant Paris 1919 Index 
p- 271 s.v. ‘Colonne de Constantin’ (elevation on p. 69 fig. 12), 7d. Sanctuaires de 
Byzance Paris 1921 p. 71 ff. fig. 13. 

2 Hence it is called ‘/a Colonne Britlée.’ 

8 Anonymos rarpia 45a p. 138, 13 ff. Preger with J. Ebersolt of. cit. p. 43. 

4 P. Gyllius De topographia Constantinopoleos, et de illius antiguitatibus Lugduni 1561 
p- 142. Cp. E. Oberhummer Joc. cét.: ‘tiirkisch Dschemberli Tasch (d.i. ‘*Saule mit.den 
Reifen ”’).’ 

° J. Ebersolt Constantinople Byzantine et les Voyageurs du Levant p. 79f. 

6 Jd. 2b. p. 196. 

? Id. Sanctuatres de Byzance p. 73 says of the axe: ‘sa présence au palais est attestée 
en 11571! (1Cf. Riant, Axuvie, t. 11, p. 215.); mais les pélerins slaves de la derniére 
époque la mentionnent toujours dans la Colonne?? (}#Cf. Zzin. russes, p. 119, 203, 238). 

8 Supra p. 572. 

® For the literature of this famous type see W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 448. 
Good illustrations in F. W. Madden ‘On some coins of Septimius Severus, Macrinus, 
and Philip I., struck at Apameia, in Phrygia, with the legend NQ.E’ in the Mum. Chron. 
New Series 1866 vi. 173—219 pl. 6, 1—3, Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 480 pl. 56, 16, 
G. F. Hill 4 Handbook of Greek and Roman Coins London 1899 p. 170 fig. 28, 
G. Macdonald Coin Types Glasgow 1905 p. 173f. fig. 18. 

10 F. Legge Forerunners and Rivals of Christianity Cambridge 1915 ii. 67. 

1 Orig. c. Cels. 6. 38 obk dpxeabels 5’ 6 yevvddas (sc. 6 Kédoos) rots dd Tod Staypduparos 
€BovdAHOn vrep Tod avéjoa Tas Kab” Hudy Karnyoplas, Tay undév éxdvTwY Kooy Tpds Exeivo, 
dia péoou GN dra elmeiv, éravahaBdw Ta éxelvwy Worepel <hu>erépwr (so P. Koetschau). 
gnoi yap ‘Oatua 5D abr&v oby ixurra éxeivo’ e&nyodvra ydp Twa pmeraid rev brepoupaviww 


The double axe and the fabarum 611 


home of the Ophites was Phrygia!;.and there can be little doubt 
that in this, the central portion of their otherworld chart, they sought 
to combine old Phrygian beliefs with new Christian teaching’. The 
appearance of a’ /ébrys in such a context is in the highest degree 
significant: it attests precisely the same spirit of accommodation that 
we detect in the Constantinian /abarum. Another Gnostic reminis- 
cence of the double axe has been recognised by F. de Mély®* in the 


aaa 





Hig. 5. 


first book of the Kyranzdes. The author of that magico-medical 
compilation, who writes under the name of Hermes 77zsmégistos 
(the late Greek equivalent of the Egyptian Thoth)‘ at some date 
prior to c. 408 A.D.°, informs us in his prologue that he has put 
together the book of Kyranos king of Persia’ and another book 
dedicated by Harpokration of Alexandreia’ to his own daughter. 


avarépw Kikhwv émvyeypaupéva, dda Te Kal dbo adrra, peifdv Te Kal puKpdTepov viod Kal 
marpos.’ etpouev 5 hucis ev rovTw TH Siarypdupare Tov welfova KUKNoy Kal Tov puLKpdTEpoV, a 
emt THs Ocamérpou emeyéypamro ‘marip’ Kai ‘ vids,’ Kal werasd Tod melfovos, Ev « 6 uuKpdTEpos 
nv, Kal dddov cvyKeévou (so P. Koetschau, after E. Bouhéreau, for addous cuyKeymévous 
cod. A.) é« d00 KixAwv, Tod ev éEwrépou EavOo0d Tod dé evdorépw kvavod, TO émvyeypaumevov 
dudppayua teekoedel oXNMATL, K.T.A. 

1 F. Legge op. cet. p. 28. 

2 On the Phrygian conception of the Son as a rebirth of the Father and its relation to 
Christianity see sapra pp. 287 ff., 292 ff., 303 ff. The colouration of the concentric circles, 
yellow and blue, may have been suggested by the zones of azthér, the ‘burning sky,’ and 
aér, the ‘ moist sky’ (s«pra i. 1or fig. 74). 

3 F. de Mély in the Comptes rendus de [ Acad. des inscr. et belles-lettres 1904 p. 340 f. 

1 W. Kroll in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. viii. 792 ff. 

5 F. de Mély Les Lapidaires de Vantiguité et du moyen dge Paris 1902 iii. 1. xxi 
notes that the Ayvanzs is quoted c. 408 A.D. by Olympiodoros (M. Berthelot—C. E. Ruelle 
Collection des anctens Alchimistes grecs Paris 1888 Texte grec p. rot, 13 n. and 17 
(Traduction p. 110) Olympiod. 52 év rm Kupavid....év ry apxatxy BiBdw). 

6 Quis? F. de Mély of. crt. Paris 1902 iii. 1. Ixxii conjectures that Kyranos may have 
something to do with Kei Kaous, a Persian king described by the Mobed Bahram as 
belonging to the dynasty of the Keianides and living in the age of Solomon (J. Mohl in 
the Journal Astatique Troisiéme Série 1841 xi. 321 ff.). 

7 C. Graux held that the Harpokration in question was the writer of the letter 
“Aproxpariwy Kalcaps Avyotorw (sc. Julian) xatpew x.t.d. (Rev. Philol. N.S. 1878 ii. 65 ff.), 
to be identified both with the Egyptian friend of Libanios (O. Seeck in Pauly—Wissowa 


fe ae 


612 The double axe and the “cbarum 


The extant text! shows that both sources contained a ritual invoca- 
tion of the vine couched in poetic and to a large extent rhythmic 
language: 


‘The white vine has other orderly and most charming effects, making a man 
in his cups to be not only sober but merry as well. Thus far Kyranos. But from 
the aforesaid point, where my authorities diverged, this is how Harpokration 
continues: “Blessed plant, leader of the gods, mistress of earth, sky, and air, 
thou that relaxest the mind by thy cluster-bearing drink, so loosening every limb, 
and causest sleep, no one by word, no healer by potion, nay none shall prevail 
against thee ; but thou bringest to light all that is in the souls of mortal men, and 
of them that have mystic thoughts in secret thou, 0 Vine, having knowledge un- 


Real-Enc. vii. 2410) and with the Alexandrine rhetorician Valerius Harpokration 
(H. Schultz 24. vii. 2412 ff.). F. de Mély of. cit. Paris 1902 iii. 1. 1xx ff. thinks that the 
Harpokration of the Ayranides may have come from Alexandreia near Babylon. (Voz 
liguet. See Gossen in Pauly—Wissowa Keal- Enc. vii. 2416 f. 

1 F. de Mély of. cét. Paris 1898 ii. 1. 10, 7 ff.= Kyran. 1. A. 28. 4 6é Nevki Gpumedos 
exer kal &ANas évepryelas koomiKas Kal xapiectdras, Ware Ev wbTots UH wbvov ynpddacoy eivai 
Twa, GAG Kai edwxiay éxew. 29. ews evraida pév 6 Kupavds otirws: amo dé THs avwrépw 
ypadelons Tav audorépwr Siadwrias etxev Exe? (an leg. Stadwvias exer? A.B.C.) olrws 6 
Tov ‘Apmoxpatiwvos Novos. 30. ‘udKkaipa BoTravn, T&v Dey HynTelpa, yalns Kparovca, ovpavod, 
kal dépos, voov Avovca Borpvodbpw Térw, ws éridvew Mav wédos, ToLovca dé Umvov, ovdels ob 
Noyw, o} cwpare (an mapatc? A. B.C.) larnp ris, obdels mpds o€ SwvjoeTat, aN’ EhéyxELS 
boa év Wuxais Bporav +7Gv éyxpipws Exovow pvoTixas Ppévas, Thy appyTws exwvt, duende 
(cod. R. has tiv apphrws éxovocav duredov. The old Latin version gives: redarguis quae- 
cumque sunt in animis mortalium et quae absconditae habent mysteria mentis. The sense 
seems to demand something like rav & éyxpiigws éxdvTwy mvoTixas ppévas Ti <ywaow > 
appjrws éxovca A.B.C.), mav7’ éxpavets povas boa ypapais 7 pappaKxos ylverat, 7) pacyavy 
 jwedéxe doa ToatTa KpuBerat. Tatra méev NehéXOw dumédov pvoTHpia.” exer dé ara 
Koo mid, ws ev Bporots uy Paidov elmweiv. 31. Neyer O€ oUTws evTedPer Oo lepds Abyos, KabwaTreEp 
[yap] etxev kai 7 Kupavis* ‘udxatpa éx Oeod dvacca, x Aeot Borpvopdpe ujrep amdons Belas 
giovos tevaryods ev purois: TH mpwrn édwy iepet- e€d...vTo ONdpmvos otcat (F. de Mély 
comments: ‘éaéwyv pour éjwv, bonorum (?).—iepe? A(?),R. F.1. tépe?— ...vro] piqtire de 
ver A; eas To 6X. R.—Rédaction de Vhymne dans C: Mdxaipa éx OeGv dvacca, wnTnp 
Geta ednpea ev p. ) TpwTy evea, GAvuTov otca.—Dans vy. i.: Beata a Deo donata Regina, 
ex Deo botrum ferens, mater sacerrima et divinior omnibus plantis, natura prima botrum 
affectat, botrus vinum cceleste fecit.” One might suspect that we have in the text remnants 
of a hexameter tag, ¢.g. 77 mpwrn <Owrhpes> Edwy | ipevcavto <Oeot mor > ’ONpmia 
<dwpar éx>ovres, were it not that from section 38 zzfra we can restore eva, yijs év 
purots 7) TpwTn, Eawe cew evnte, Odusria ova or the like A.B.C.). 32. radra etzas eis 
mornpiov, Bade els Kepdpiov, 6Oev mivovew dravres, Kal dvadvovow evppavbévTes, undevos 
ougnTnoavTos.... 38. 7 dé rod Kupavoi repli evppacias orn eixev otTws* & Oevorarn Bordvyn 
Borpuopédpe, aurredos Nevky, [N] uATEP TOV Boravay, etdre kuBadnpdpe, yas Ev HuTois 7 TpwTn. 
Aéye els wornptov Tods Adyous TovTous: évni evowdv (F. de Mély cj. evorvov) ppevav pou 
Thpnoov aBrdBevav elvar evynle Odvurla odoa, cuvTHpyody pov voos Ppévas, evOuuos ovca Kal 
Bevordrn Kal vyujs. ve eb dé lave aé Krew’ Edwe (evel evae iadw naw fh avé cod. R.). radra 
els mornpiov olvov émevmwv, Bade els Kepducov olvov, 60ev mivovow amavrTes Kal avadvoucw 
amavres evppavOerres of pldror, undevds cugnrHoavTos. The invocation of section 30 is in 
cod. R. entitled tuvos els Bpvwviay. Those of sections 31 and 38 conclude with certain 
musical phrases, on which see C. E. Ruelle ‘ Le chant des sept voyelles grecques d’aprés 
Démétrius & les papyrus de Leyde’ in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1889 ii. 38 ff., 7d. ‘ Note addition- 
nelle sur le chant des sept voyelles grecques’ 26. 1889 ii. 393 ff., C. E. Ruelle—E. Poirée 
Le chant gnostico-magique des sept voyelles Paris 1got. 








The double axe and the fabarum 613 


ulterable wilt reveal all that ts wrought by writings unique or sovereign remedies, 
yea all the hidden meaning of knife or double axe. Let these words be said as the 
mysteries of the Vine.” It has also other orderly virtues, so that among mortals 
its name must not be taken in vain. Next, the sacred account, as given in the 
Kyranis, saith as follows: “Blessed God-sent queen, God-sent cluster-bearing 
mother of every divine nature—E UA—thou that art foremost among plants of 
earth—E AOE IEO EUVE/E—being a denizen of Olympos.” Having said this 
into a cup, empty it into a jar, whence all drink and depart with good cheer, no 
man having come to words.’ 


Harpokration’s allusion to ‘the hidden meaning of knife or double 
axe’ as ‘the mysteries of the Vine’ certainly seems to imply some 
guast-Dionysiac survival of the /érys. It is unfortunate that further 
details are wanting. 

One other fact in connexion with the double axe should here be 
noted. Its pictograph passed readily into linear forms, and thence 
into syllabic and alphabetic characters. Sir Arthur Evans! has 
pointed out that the Aegean X or X is comparable with X the 
Sabaean form of the Semitic letter zazz, whose name is held to 
denote ‘a twofold weapon.’ It follows that the double axe was the 
original source, from which was derived, not only the Phoenician J, 
but also the shape (though not the name) of the Greek I or Z, the 
Latin Z, and the English Z*. Again, the monograms above cited 
from the Graeco-Scythian coinage of Bactria and India (s. iii—i B.C.) 
were clearly suggested in the first instance by the outline of a double 
axe®, Simias of Rhodes (¢. 295 B.C.) even arranged a whole poem 
on the axe of Epeios in such a way as to resemble its two-bladed 
subject. 

Suppose, then, that Constantine during his stay in the east had 
observed the double axe, a symbol of ancient and mysterious 
sanctity with a marked tendency to take on the shape of definite 
letters, he might well enough think of adopting it as a sign that 
would appeal at once to pagans and to Christians. For, just as the 
trophy-cross, symbol of Iupiter /eretrzws, was modified into the 


1 Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1894 xiv. 365 f., 2d. Scripta Minoa Oxford 
1909 i. 81, 86f. fig. 41. 

2 Other forms that fall to be considered are the Iberian pk PX Dd WI mem on coins 
of the Turdetani (P. Berger Histoire de 'écriture dans lantiquité Paris 1891 p. 336, 
Sir A. J. Evans Scripta Minoa i. 99 fig. 44*), the Cypriote X /e (zd. 2b. i. 71 fig. 39), the 
Sicyonian X efsz/on (Roberts Gk. Efigr. i. 136), the Venetic, Sabellian, Etruscan, and 
Faliscan sibilant bd (J. Schmidt in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 1617 ff.), and the 
Latin numeral Pd mille (J. C. Egbert Zrtroduction to the Study of Latin Inscriptions 
London—Bombay 1896 p. 75). Of course, it must not be hastily assumed that similar 
characters are of similar origin. 

3 Supra p. 608. 

4 C. Haeberlin Carmina Figurata Graeca Hannoverae 1887 p. 70. 


614 ‘The double axe and other forms of | 


Zeus, could be easily transformed into the Christian monograms X 
* & *«*® It was by no accident that Constantine in his lebarum 
combined the token of the god supreme in the west with that of the 
god supreme in the east, thus linking Iupiter with Zeus under the 
name of One greater than either. 


(x) The double axe and other forms of Zeus in the East. 


Zeus Labréyndos was by no means the only god that in Asia 
Minor armed himself with the primeval thunder-weapon. Of Zeus 


Christian monogram Fi, so the double axe, symbol of the Anatolian 
7 





Fig. 512. 


Dolichaios or lupiter Dolzchenus I have already spoken at length*. 
Another semi-oriental form of Zeus appears on red relief-ware of 
the seventh century B.C. found in Rhodes and Karia. A fragment 


1 Supra p. 6o1 f. 2 Supra p. 603 f. 
3 Supra i. 604—633. 


Zeus in the East 615 


from Kameiros (fig. 512)! represents a male figure, presumably 
Zeus’, grasping a pointed sword in one hand and a double axe in the 
other as he advances to fight a beardless Centaur, who holds before 
him a small tree, roots and all, behind hima branch. The type was 
repeated by means of a wooden cylinder rolled round the clay vessel, 
while yet moist: a second Centaur and parts of a second Zeus are 





visible. Other fragments from Dacha on the Carian coast reverse 
the motzf (fig. 513), which was evidently popular for the decoration 
of large péthoz and is once at least treated in a more advanced style 
(fig. 514) P. V. C. Baur? rightly insists that this stamped pottery 
exhibits certain patterns characteristic of Hittite art. And we have 
noted Hittite traits, not only in the cult of lupiter Dolzchenus*, but 
also in that of the Rhodian Zeus’. Very possibly, then, the axe- 


1 A. Salzmann Wecropole de Camiros Paris 1875 pl. 26a (=my fig. 512). 

2 A. Salzmann Joc. cit. regarded the subject as a combat between Centaurs and 
Lapiths. J. L. Stokes in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1905—1906 xii. 78 speaks of ‘An 
archaic Lapith and Centaur scheme.’ B. Sauer in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1046f. fig. 3 
took it to be the oldest representation of Herakles v. the Centaur. But P. V. C. Baur 
Centaurs in Ancient Art (The Archaic Period) Berlin 1912 p. 85 gives reasons for dis- 
senting from Sauer’s view. A. Milchhofer Die Anfange der Kunst in Griechenland 
Leipzig 1883 p. 75 fig. 48 with p. 116 pronounced in favour of Zeus on the ground of 
the double axe. E. H. Meyer /ndogermanische Mythen Berlin 1883 1 (Gandharven- 
Kentauren). 59, 131 reached the same conclusion ; which is accepted also by P. Jacobsthal 
Der Blitz in der orientalischen und griechischen Kunst Berlin 1906 p. 10 n. 2. 

3 F. Diimmler ‘ Pithosfragmente aus Datscha’ in the Ah. Mitth. 1896 xxi. 230f. 
fig. 1 (=my fig. 513), P. V. C. Baur of. cit. p. 85 fig. 17 (from a photograph). Baur 
states that the Berlin Museum has recently acquired fragments from Datcha stamped 
with the same design. 

4 F. Diimmler oc. czt. 1896 xxi. 233 ff. pl. 6 (=my fig. 514), P. V. C. Baur of. ct. 
p. 85f. pl. 11 no. 217 (photograph). 

5 Pp. V. C. Baur of. cit. p. 85 f. 

5 Supra i. 604 ff., 631 f., 634. 7 Supra i. 642. 


616 The double axe in the East 


bearer of the red relief-ware is the Hellenised form of an originally . 


Hittite sky-god. If so, we shall best call him Zeus. 
Strabon! in his account of Kappadokia states that next to the 
king in importance ranked the priest of Ma at Komana, the priest of 





Fig. 514. 


Zeus at Venasa, and the priest of Zeus Dakzends. The appellative of 
the latter Zeus is connected by P. Carolidis? with the Armenian word 
daku, ‘an axe®, and taken to mean ‘the Axe-bearer.’ 

Less probable is Carolidis’ contention that Zeus Genefaios’, 


1 Strab. 536 f. év 6é ry Mopiunvy 7d iepdy rod év Ovnvdcos Ards, iepodotAwy Karouklay 
éxov Tpicxilwy cxeddv Te kal xwpav iepay eVKaprov, wapéxovoav mpdbcodov éviavatoy TaddvTwv 
mevrexaldexa Tw leper: Kal otés éore Sid Blov, KaOdmep kal 6 év Koudvas (cp. Strab. 535), 
kai devrepever kata Tyuhy mer exeivov. Tpitn 8 éoriv iepwaotvn Ards Aaxiqvod (T. Tyrwhitt cj. 
Aaxijov or Aakinvod for Aaxin ov. A. Koraés accepted Aaxcyvot. P. Carolidis thinks that 


the title was Aaxins or Adxios; but see F. de Saussure ‘Les noms grecs en -nrés et le’ 


phrygien’ in E. Chantre Afisston en Cappadoce 1893—1894 Paris 1898 pp. 185—r91) 
Aerouévn TavTys, divddoyos 5 Suws. evtadba S& earl NdKKos aduvpod Vdaros, dicoddyou 
Aluyns Exwv mepluerpov, dppiar Kdetduevos bWndals re kal dpOlas, wor exew kaTrdBaow 
KAiwakwdn: 7d 5 Udwp ott ablfecbal gacw, or amébppvow éxew ovdamyod pavepdvy. The 
reconstitution of the text is due to G. Kramer, who suggested that tpiry7—qavepdy should 
be transposed so as to follow év 6€—éxeivov. With the salt pool of Zeus Aaxcnvés cp. the 
salt water of Zeus ’Ocoywa (supra p. 581 ff.). P. Carolidis Dre sogen. Assyro-Chaldder 
und Hittiten von Kleinasien Athen 1898 p. 67 n. would identify the cult-centre of Zeus 
Aaxkinvés with the modern //giz. Axes in jadeite and bronze have been found in the Ze// 
of Kara-Euyuk (E. Chantre of. cit. p. 78 f. figs. 56—59). 

2 P. Carolidis Bemerkungen 2u den alten kletnasiatischen Sprachen und Mythen 
Strassburg i. E. 1913 p. 55 f. 

3 Akin to our word dagger (Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 343 f., Walde 
Lat. etym. Worterb.? p: 290). 

4 P. Carolidis op. cét. p. 56 Zeus Tevyrns (stc), p. 62 Zeus Tevérns (séc) with a wrong 
reference to Ap. Rhod. 1. 1032 (? Nonn. Dion. 9. 147 Avs yevérao). 

5 Ap. Rhod. 2. ro0g Tevnraiov Avés dkpnv, Val. Flacc. 5. 147 inde Genetaei rupem 
(so A. Poliziano for zxzdigena et aerupem cod. V.) lovis. 


2 ee 


The double axe in the West 617 


otherwise known as Zeus Ezixeinos' or Xénios*, who had a sanctuary 
on the Genetaean headland adjoining the Pontic river Genes*, derived 
his title from geneZs, ‘an axe‘, though that derivation would har- 
monise well with the neighbourhood of the Chalybes®. 

On the whole, it may be predicted with assurance that the 
thorough exploration of Asia Minor, which despite all drawbacks 
must some day be completed, will accumulate further evidence of an 
axe-bearing Zeus, successor and heir of a yet more ancient sky-god. 


(A) The double axe in the West. 


It would seem, then, that over a wide area, from Doliche in 
Syria to Tarentum in Calabria, the prehistoric lightning-axe passed 
through the successive phases of fetish, attribute, and symbol. In 
western Europe analogous causes were doubtless at work ; but their 
results are either wholly hidden from us by the darkness of bar- 
barism or at best dimly discernible on the fringe of advancing 
civilisation. 

Double axes of copper, with the hafting hole too small to be of 
use for tool or weapon, and therefore probably intended for purposes 
of exchange or ceremony, make their appearance in the west as far 
back as the Copper Age. A. Lissauer® holds that they were imports 
from Kypros and attempts to trace the routes by which they tra- 
velled through Europe. But Sir W. M. Flinders Petrie’, arguing 
that double axes with effective hafting are limited to the Mediter- 
ranean area, whereas double axes with ineffective hafting belong 
almost exclusively to the north, denies that Kypros was the centre 
of distribution and classifies the northern axes under three local 
types of separate origin. In Bronze-Age deposits ceremonial axes 

1 Ap. Rhod. 2. 378 Znvds "Evéeivoio Tevnrainy trép dxpnv with schol. Paris. ad doc. 
TiBapnvol dé €Ovos XKvOixov. olxovcr dé Thy kadoupévyny Vevynraiav &xpay ard Vévynros rota- 
wod, &v 7 Ads éotw Hikeivou iepév. 

2 Schol. Ap. Rhod. 2. 378 Tevytata dxpa kuplws otrw Neyouevyn amo Tévnros rorapod, 
évOa Acds Reviov iepbv éort. 

3 Steph. Byz. s.v. Tevnrns:...DooxAjjs wotapov Tévnra pyoly (frag. 1036 Jebb). See 
further W. Ruge in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. vii. 1132. 

4 Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. ii. 567 B. 

5 Supra i. 631 f., 648. 

® A. Lissauer ‘Die Doppelaxte der Kupferzeit im westlichen Europa’ in the Zezéschrift 
Stir Ethnologie 1905 xxxvii. 519—525 with figs. and a map, zd. ‘die Doppelaxt aus Kupfer 
von Pyrmont’ 74. pp. 770—772, zd. ‘eine Doppelaxt aus Kupfer von Ellierode, Kr. 
Northeim, Hannover’ 2. pp. too7—1009, R. Forrer Antigua 1885 p. 106, zd. ‘ Die 
agyptischen, kretischen, phonikischen, etc. Gewichte und Masse der europaischen Kupfer-, 
Bronze- und Eisenzeit’ in the Jak7-Buch der Gesellschaft fiir lothringische Geschichte und 
Altertumskunde 1906 pp. 1—77, id. Reallex. p. 188 f., A. J. Reinach in Daremberg— 
Saglio Dict. Ant. iv. 1166 n. 8, J. Déchelette Manuel d’archéologie préhistorique Paris 
Igto ii. 1. 403 ff. fig. 163, 483 n. I. 

7 Sir W. M. Flinders Petrie 7vo/s and Weapons London 1917 pp. 13—15 pl. 12. 


618 The double axe in the West 


of a different sort have come to light. C. F. Herbst! published two 
of single blade found at Skogstorp near Eskilstuna in Sweden and 
another found in the Amt wood near Veile in Denmark. All three, 
in lieu of solid metal, had a thin coating of bronze over a clay core; 
and the first two were adorned with plates of gold and studs of 
amber. We have, however, no proof that any of these axes had a 
definitely religious significance. The copper double axes very pos- 
sibly served as a currency unit for the living, the bronze single axes 
as suitable gifts to the dead. 





Fig. 515. 


More ad vem is A. Blanchet’s observation? that over and over 
again both in France and in Sweden axes of stone or bronze have 
been found carefully arranged in symmetric circles, perhaps with a 
view to solar cult. Besides, bronze axe-heads from the burial ground 
at Hallstatt are in some cases furnished with the small figure of a 
rider or a horse (fig. 515)’, which J. Déchelette* takes to be an 
emblem of the sun, though it may have some other meaning. 


1 C. F. Herbst in the Aarbéger for nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historie 1866 pp. 124— 
132 with figs., Sir J. Evans Zhe Ancient Bronze Implements, Weapons, and Ornaments, 
of Great Britain and Ireland London 1881 p. 450, J. J. A. Worsaae The Pre-history oj 
the North trans. H. F. Morland Simpson London 1886 p. 96, O. Montelius Zhe Civilisa- 
tion of Sweden in Heathen Times trans. F. H. Woods London 1888 p. 51 f. fig. 52- 

2 A. Blanchet in the Bulletin de la Société Nationale des Antiguaires de France 1903 
pp- 137—141 draws up a list of such cases, which is doubled in length by J. Déchelette 
op. cet. li. I. 483 n. 2. 

3 E. v. Sacken Das Grabfeld von Hallstatt in Oberisterreich und dessen Alterthiimer 
Wien 1868 p. 41 f. pl. 8, 2—4 (=my fig. 515), Forrer Real/ex. p. 329 pl. 82, 3—5. 

4 J. Déchelette of. cit. ii. 1. 482 fig. 205, 5. 





The double axe in the West 619 


Not till we reach the Roman period can we beyond all question 
connect the axe with particular deities. A plate of copper dis- 
covered near Cadenet in the district of Apt amid a heap of ashes 
to the west of a circular wall records the gift of an axe to Mars and 
an axe to Dexsiva! (a Celtic goddess?) in fulfilment of a vow*®. Six 


MATRIBVS 


Fig. 516. Fig. 517. 


little hatchets of bronze found in the ruins of a temple at Allmen- 
dingen near Thun bear votive inscriptions ‘to Iupiter, ‘to the 
Matres’ (fig. 516), ‘to the Matronae,’ ‘to Mercurius,’ ‘to Minerva’ 
(fig. 517), and ‘of Neptunus’ respectively*. In Gallia Lugudunensis 
Esus the axe-god was associated with Iovis and Volcanus’, while 


1 Corp. mscr. Lat. xii no. 1063 (with fig.) d(onum) d(at) Quartus Mar(ti) | secujrem. | 
d(onum) d(at) @(?) Dexsive | Quartus secu|rem. v(otum) s(olvit) I(ibens) m(erito). 
T. Mommsen suggested as a possible reading: d(is) d(eabus) Quartus m(e)r(itis) | secu|rem. | 
d(is) d(eabus) o(mnibus) etc. 

2M. Ihm in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Lunc. v. 295. 

3 S.C. F. Calvet cp. Fredegodus v. S. Wilfridi Eboracensts (died 709 A.D.) 15. 558 
(cxxxiii. 992 A Migne) non igitur coeptum dissolvit Dexia votum. 

+ T. Mommsen Juscriptiones confoederationts Helveticae Latinae (Mittheilungen der 
Antiquarischen Gesellschaft in Ziirich x) Zurich 1854 p. 39 no. 211 (1) Lovi, (2) Matribus 
with fig. (=my fig. 516), (3) Matronis, (4) Mercurio, (5) Minervae with fig. (= my fig. 517), 
(6) Neptuni, M. Ihm ‘Der Miitter- oder Matronenkultus und seine Denkmaler’ in the 
Jahrb. d. Vereins v. Alterthumsfreund. im Rheinl. 1887 \xxxiii. 128 nos. 156, 157. 

> Supra i. 481 n. 9, il. §47 n. o. 


620 The axe carried by priests and priestesses 


at Mogontiacum (J/ayence) Sucaelus the mallet-god' was apparently 
equated with lupiter Optimus Maximus’. Finally, Saxo Gramma- 
ticus* in his Hzstory of the Danes, writing ¢. 1200 A.D., states that 
in 1130 A.D. Magnus, son of Nicolaus (the Danish king Niels), after 
demolishing an ancient heathen temple on an island in or near 
Gothia (G¢gtland in Sweden), brought back in triumph certain enor- 
mously heavy bronze hammers known as ‘ Iupiter-mallets’ and be- 
lieved to be the means by which Iupiter (Thor) made his thunder. 

It will be seen that in western and northern Europe the double 
axe as a divine weapon gave place, from the Bronze Age onwards, 
to the single axe and the hammer. 


(«) The axe carried by priests and priestesses. 


Among the sculptures decorating the gateway of the Hittite 
palace at Eyuk‘ is a relief (fig. 518)°, which represents two pairs of 
male figures engaged in some ritual or ceremonial action hard to 
interpret. On the left a couple of men clad in short tunics confront 
each other. The taller man wears a conspicuous earring and grasps 
a long staff, which is grasped also by his shorter companion. On 
the right is a second couple again consisting of a taller and a shorter 
man. The one wears a close-fitting cap, an earring, a trailing robe 
with a surplice over it, and tip-tilted shoes: he holds with both 
hands an axe of unique design*’—the blade being crescent-shaped 


1 S. Reinach ‘Sucellus et Nantosvelta’ in the Revue celtigue 1896 xvii. 45—59 (=2d. 
Cultes, Mythes et Religions Paris 1905 i. 217—232), R. Peter in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 
1579 f. 

2 Corp. inscr. Lat. xiii no. 6730= Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 4615 (on an altar found 
at Mogontiacum in 1882) I. 0. m. | Sucaelo et | Gen. loci pro | salute C. | Calpurni | 
Seppiani p. p. | leg. Xxir Pr. p., | Trophimus | actor [et?] can|abari ex | voto. I do not 
agree with R. Peter doc. cit., who comments : ‘doch wohl Iuppiter O. M. und Sucaelus.’ 

3 Sax. Gram. hist. Dan. 13 p. 421, 29 ff. Holder cuius operam valenter editam 
consimili probitatis genere emulatus Magnus, inter cetera tropheorum suorum insignia 
inusitati ponderis malleos, quos Ioviales vocabant, apud insularum quandam prisca 
virorum religione cultos, in patriam deportandos curavit. cupiens enim antiquitas toni- 
truorum causas usitata rerum similitudine comprehendere, malleos, quibus celi fragores 
cieri credebat, ingenti ere complexa fuerat, aptissime tante sonoritatis vim <machinarum 
(¢zs. S. J. Stephanius)> fabrilium specie imitandam existimans. Magnus vero, Christiane 
discipline studio paganam perosus, et phanum cultu et Iovem insignibus spoliare sanctitatis 
loco habuit. et adhuc quidem eum Sueones, perinde ac celestium spoliorum raptorem, 
sacrilegum autumant. 

4 Supra i. 636. 

5 G. Perrot—E. Guillaume—J. Delbet Axploration archéologique de la Galatze et de la 
Bithynie etc. Paris 1872 i. 360, ii pl. 56, 2, Perrot—Chipiez Ast. de 1’ Art iv. 672 f. 
fig. 335 (=my fig. 518), J. Garstang Zhe Land of the Hittites London 1910 p. 266f., 
E. Meyer Rech und Kultur der Chetiter Berlin 1914 p. 84 n. 1. Length 1°66": minimum 
height 1°22™. 

® Its character as an axe is recognised by A. J. Reinach in Daremberg—Saglio Dect. 
Ant. iv. 1167 n. g and by E. Meyer Joc. cet. G. Perrot’s original comparison with the 


ee. 


The axe carried by priests and priestesses 621 


and perforated, the handle prolonged above it so that it could be 
grasped at either end. The other man, who is seemingly nude, 
stands at a little distance facing the axe-bearer with a gesture of 
respect. What these various figures signify, we cannot tell. But it is 
reasonable to suppose that the personage carrying the two-handled 
axe is a priest, who holds out the weapon of his god for the ap- 
proaching worshipper to clasp, much as Ahasuerus held out to 
Esther the golden sceptre’. 





Fig. 518. 


A glandular sardonyx from the Vaphio tomb (fig. 519)?, now in 
the Central Museum at Athens’, has incised upon it a beardless 
man in a long robe, who raises his right hand in the attitude of 
adoration and supports on his left shoulder an axe crescentic and 
holed as before. G. Perrot and C. Chipiez* took him to be perhaps 
a man sacrificing. A. Furtwangler® suggested that he might be 
meant for a priest, or for a god, possibly Zeus. And L. A. Milani® 
declares that he is an armed deity comparable with the Hittite 


sceptre and ring on the rock-cut reliefs of Bavian (Perrot—Chipiez “ist. de 7’ Art ii. 636 ff. 
fig. 310) and Maltai (zd. ii. 642 ff. fig. 313) is misleading. 

1 Esther 4. 11, 5. 2, 8. 4. 

2 Ch. Tsountas ‘"Epevvac év tH Aakwyixy Kal 6 Tdgos Tob Badeiov’ in the "Eq. ’Apx. 
1889 p. 167 pl. 10, 26, Perrot—Chipiez Hist. de l’ Art vi. 847 fig. 431, 4 (=my fig. 519), 
849, 977, Furtwangler Ant. Gemmen i pl. 2, 47, li. 13. 

3 Stais Coll. Mycénienne: Athdnes p. 152 no. 1798. 

4 Perrot—Chipiez Hist. de 7’ Art vi. 977. 

> Furtwangler Azt. Gemmen ii. 13. 

6 Milani Stud. e mat. di arch. e num. 1902 il. 8 fig. 109. 


622 The axe carried by priests and priestesses 


Sutekh. However, a glance at the gem from Melos! already dis- 
cussed makes it fairly certain that this is no axe-bearing divinity, 
but a mere mortal; and I should be content to see in him a priest 
carrying a ceremonial axe. The same tomb yielded an actual spe- 





Fig. 520. 





cimen in bronze of similar shape’, and other examples could be 


quoted?®. 
A glandular gem of finer style (fig. 520), in the Museum at 
Candia, is again taken by L. A. Milani‘ to portray an axe-bearing 


1 Supra p. 544 fig. 419. 

2 Ch. Tsountas Joc. czt. p. 155 f. pl. 8, 1, Perrot—Chipiez op. cit. vi. 977 fig. 553, 
Stais of. czt. p. 155 f. no. 1870, A. J. Reinach in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iv. 1167 © 
fig. 6265. 

3 See Sir J. G. Wilkinson A fopular account of the Ancient Egyptians London 1854 
i. 362 f. ig. 319, 1—6, Milani Sted. e mat. di arch. e num. 1902 ii. 8f. fig. 112, Forrer 
Reallex. p. 66f. fig. 57, A. J. Reinach doc, cit., Sir W. M. Flinders Petrie Zools and 
Weapons London 1917 p. gf. pl. 6f. Lfra § 3 (c) i (x). Cp. also an interesting bronze, 
formerly in the Towneley Collection, which combines the shape of a perforated axe with 
the figure of a bull (zz/ra § 3 (c) i (u)), and a magnificent axe-head in the Museo Egizio 
at Florence (Milani Zoc. cet. fig. 113=my fig. 521f.), which possibly, but not certainly, 
had a sacral character. 

4 Milani Stud. e mat. di arch. e num. 1902 ii. 8 fig. 111 (=my fig. 520). 





The axe carried by priests and priestesses 623 


god such as Sutekh. More probably it shows a priestess carrying 
the crescent axe for some ritual purpose. If so, the nearest parallels 
are a lentoid steatite from Knossos (fig. 523)! and a clay sealing 
from Kato Zakro (fig. 524), on which G. Karo* recognised ‘ Minoan’ 





Fig. 523. 
priestesses bearing the double axe and the sacred robe of their 
goddess. Or should we rather say ‘the sacred robe of their goddess 
and the double axe of their god’? 

Two stone moulds found near Palazkastro in 1899 exhibit a 
whole series of designs relating to the Cretan axe-cult*. These in- 





1 Sir A. J. Evans in the dum. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901—1902 viii. 101 f. fig. 59 (=my 
fig. 523, scale ?) speaks of the figure on this intaglio, found near ‘the Court of the Oil 
Spout’ in the Cnossian palace, as apparently a female divinity. But why? 

2D. G. Hogarth in the Journ. Hell, Stud. 1902 xxii. 78 f. fig. 5 (=my fig. 524, 
scale }) thinks that between the two draped figures of this impression is ‘a /aérys sus- 
pended in air’ (cp. supra p. 514 ff.). G. Karo in the 4rchiv f. Rel. 1904 vii. 148 fig. 32 
gives a redrawing of the seal, in which the /dérys is definitely carried by the left-hand 
figure. 

3 G. Karo in the Archiv f. Rel. 1904 vii. 147 figs. 31 and 32. 

4 S. A. Xanthoudides in the ’E¢. ’Apx. 1900 p. 26 ff. pl. 3 f. (=my fig. 525 ff.), Milani 


624 The axe carried by priests and priestesses 


clude a couple of ornate double axes, large and small, with multiple 
blades (fig. 525); a pair of ritual horns (fig. 526); a large disk 
resembling a four-spoked wheel decorated with dots and rays (the 
sun ?); a small disk, with central cross, two concentric rows of dots, 





Fig. 526. 


and a crescent between them (the moon and stars?), apparently 
carried by a little female figure’, since a head with rayed head-dress 
is seen above and a wide-spread skirt (?) below ; a female uplifting 





Fig. 527. 


flowers or poppy-stalks(?) in either hand, while another flower 
springs from her flat head-dress (fig. 527); and lastly a similar 
female raising a brace of decorated double axes (fig. 528). The two 


Stud. e mat. di arch. e num. i. 176, R. C. Bosanquet in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901— 
1902 viii. 299 f., Sir A. J. Evans 2. 1902—1903 ix. 92f., G. Karo in the Archiv f. Rel. 
1904 vii. 145 ff. figs. 2730. 

1G. Karo in the Archiv f. Rel. 1904 vii. 147 ‘ dariiber gleichsam Schadel und Arme 
eines Skeletts [!], unten ein weiter Frauenrock.’ 


The axe carried by priests and priestesses 625 


large-sized females are regarded by Sir A. J. Evans! and by G. Karo? 
as goddesses. We should then assume—an easy assumption—that 
the earth-goddess had borrowed the sky-god’s axe*. But the same 
figures are described by R. C. Bosanquet! as women; and there is, 
after all, nothing to prevent us from supposing that they are a pair 
of priestesses displaying the emblems of the goddess and the god. 
Athena, who in various ways recalls the great mother-goddess 
of Crete, is on occasion equipped with the double axe. Simias of 
Rhodes in his picture-poem the Double Axe makes Epeios the 





Fig. 528. 


Phocian dedicate to Athena as an acceptable gift the axe with 
which he had made the wooden horse and thereby captured Troy’. 
The fateful tool was to be seen in her temple at Eilenia in the 
district of Lagaria near Metapontum® Again, bronze coins of the 
Oxyrhynchite nome, struck by Domitian, Trajan (fig. 529), Hadrian 
(fig. 530), and Antoninus Pius, have for reverse type Athena bearing 
Nike in one hand and a double axe with straight or rounded edges in 
the other, while small pieces issued by Hadrian (fig. 531) show the 
double axe without the goddess’. Lastly, a ‘Gnostic’ amulet in the 


1 Sir A. J. Evans in the Axx. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1902—1903 ix. 92 f. 

2 G. Karo in the Archiv f. Rel. 1904 vii. 147. 

3 So H. Prinz in the A¢h. Mitth. 1910 xxxv. 163 with 174. Cp. supra p. 564f. figs. 
450, 452- 

4 R. C. Bosanquet in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901—1902 Vili. 300. 

5 Anth. Pal. 15. 22 (Simias)=C. Haeberlin Carmina Figurata Graeca Hannoverae 
1887 p. 70 with schol. Pal. 2d. p. 84. See further W. Christ Geschichte der griechischen 
Litteratur® Miinchen 1911 ii. 1. g2 n. 4. Illustrations are collected by Overbeck Gadd. 
her. Bildw. i. 607 ff. Atlas pl. 25, 3 f., A. Michaelis in the Azz. d. Just. 1880 lii. 56 ff. 
pl. K, P. Weizsacker in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 1279f. 

§ Aristot. mir. ausc. 108, Lyk. AZ. 948 ff., Iust. 20. 2. 1. 

7 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Alexandria etc. p. 360 f. nos. 86—g1, Hunter Cat. Coins iii. 
565 no. 18, J. de Rougé ‘ Monnaies des Nomes de Egypte >in the Rev. Mum. Nouvelle 


Cuit., 40 


626 The axe carried by priests and priestesses | 


St Genevieve collection (fig. 532) represents Athena armed with the 
double axe amid a group of Egyptising deities}. 

Traces of the Cretan axe might also be sought in the complex 
of myths relating to Theseus. For Theseus, though he became the 








tl 
eat 














| \, 


any 





hi 


national hero of Athens, had originally—as O. Gruppe? has shown 
in detail—much to do with Crete and Cretan cult. Accordingly, we 
observe that in fifth-century art he constantly handles the double 
axe. The cycle of Thesean exploits told how Damdstes* the 
‘Crusher,’ otherwise styled Prokrodstes* the ‘Hammerer’ or Pro- 






Fig. 532. 


série 1874 xv. 27 ff. pl. 1, 17 Trajan (=my fig. 529), 18 Hadrian (=my fig. 530), 19 
Hadrian (=myffig. 531), G. Dattari Mum Augg. Alexandrini Cairo 1go1 p. 417 f. nos. 
6334 pl. 33, 6335 Domitian; 6336 pl. 34 Trajan; 6337, 6338 pl. 35, 6339 (axe only) 
pl. 35 Hadrian; 6340 pl. 36, 6341 Antoninus Pius. W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. AZy/h. 
iil. 442 follows J. de Rougé /oc. cz¢. in identifying this Athena with the Egyptian Tefénet 
(on whom see G. Roeder in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 156 ff.). 

1 C. du Molinet Cabinet de la Bibliotheque de S* Genevitve Paris 1692 p. 130 pl. 30, 
1—2 (=my fig. 532), Montfaucon Aztiguity Explained trans. D, Humphreys London 
1721 ii. 237 pl. 53, 1, J. Matter Avstotre critique du gnosticisme Paris 1828 iii pl. 7, 4. 

2 Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 581 ff. Supra i. 467, 474 ff., 481 f., 492 ff. 

3 Apollod. efit. 1. 4, Plout. v. Zhes. 11, Hesych. s.v. Aapaoras (sc). See C. Robert 
in Hermes 1898 xxxili. 149. 

4 Diod. 4. 59 Tay & édXarrévwv Tods 1ddas mpoékpovey, ad ovmrep IIpoxpovarns dvoudobn. 


The axe carried by priests and priestesses 627 


képtes’ the ‘Cutter, beat out his victims with the iron mallet? of 
his father Polypemon® or lopped their limbs to suit his fatal bed, 
till Theseus came and served him as he had served others. Attic 
red-figured vases from the end of the sixth century onwards depict 
the hero attacking his ferocious host with uplifted double axe‘. 
Whence did he obtain the axe? Presumably he wrenched it from 
the hand of Damastes and carried it afterwards in token of his 
victory’, However that may be®, the western pediment in the 


C. Robert in U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff Aus Aydathen Berlin 1880 p. 227 pointed 
out that mpoxpovew is the technical term for beating out a plate or bar of metal. 

1 Bakchyl. 17. 27 ff. Hodumjpuovds te xaprepdv | opipay é&€Badev Ipoxd|rras, apelovos 
tuxev | pwrds with Sir R. C. Jebb ad foc. O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 2687 ff., 
following up a hint of Wilamowitz in the Go¢t. gel. Anz. 1898 clx. 142, holds that the 
subject of the sentence is still Theseus, who is here described as rpoxémras, the ‘ striker 
of a lightning-blow,’ in opposition to the more ponderous Polypemon (IIpoxpovorns), who 
because stronger is spoken of as dpelovos...dwrds. Ingenious, but unconvincing. 

2 Soph. Azgeus frag. 19 Nauck®, 26 Jebb ag. Poll. 10. 160 and Hesych. s.v. xéorpa 
odnpg. Cp. Bakchyl. 17. 27f., Apollod. efz¢. 1. 4, Hyg. fad. 38, and schol. Eur. Azp/p. 
977 (of Sinis). 

3 See J. Ilberg in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 2683. O. Hofer 2d. iii. 2684 ff., after 
G. Kirchner Adética et Peloponnesiaca Greifswald 1890 p. 64 n. 4 and O. Wulff Zur 
Theseussage Dorpat 1892 p. 179, thinks that Ilo\vr7juwy was originally an appellative of 
Hades, who sank successively from a god to a hero, and from a hero to a brigand. 
Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 595 says: ‘er bedeutete den Todesgott, der die Menschen auf 
das letzte, fiir alle gleiche Lager streckt’ (but see the folk-parallels in Frazer Pausanias 
il. 502) and of. cit. p. 595 n. 3 adds: ‘Der Hammer...ist Symbol des Totengottes ; 
Charun, der etruskische Totengott, fiihrt den Doppelhammer’ (zzzfra p. 641). 

+ Listed by O. Wulff of. czt. p. 45 ff., E. Sarnow Dee cyclischen Darstellungen aus der 
Theseussage in der antiken Kunst und ihre literarische Quelle Leipzig 1894 p. 57 ff., 
L. Séchan in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. v. 227 n. 3. 

°? We are nowhere actually told that heseus took the weapon from Prokroustes, 
though that is perhaps implied by Plout. v. Zes. 11 and is commonly assumed as self- 
evident (Harrison Myth. Mon. Anc. Ath. p. 260, O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 
2685, 2687). We need not think of the robber as possessing two implements, a hammer 
to lengthen out the short and an axe to shorten the long: an axe-hammer would have 
served both purposes. 

6 A late black-figured skfphos at Petrograd bears on both front and back a design, 
which has been interpreted-as Theseus attacking Skiron with a double axe in the pre- 
sence of Athena (Stephani Vasensamml. St. Petersburg i. 67 f. no. 116, zd. in the Compte- 
rendu St. Pét. 1866 p. 155 fig., p. 177 f., Reinach Rép. Vases i. 55, 6, O. Waser in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. tort). Anda red-figured £y/zx at Florence with cyclic illustrations 
shows the hero making for Sinis with the same tool (L. A. Milani in the AZzseo [taliano 
di antichita classica 1890 ili. 239 ff. pl. 3, Reinach Rép. Vases i. 529). But it would 
be unsafe to infer from such isolated representations that Theseus had a double axe 
independently of Prokroustes. His ancestral weapon was, of course, the sword of 
Aigeus. 

There is, however, some reason to associate the double axe with the legendary kings 
of Athens. When Kodros devoted his life for his country, he dressed as a woodman (Lyk. 
Al. 1378 dvaxros Tod Spunkémou with Tzetz. ad /oc.) and took in hand a double axe (Tzetz. 
chil, 1. 194f. 6 yvovs 6 Kédpos kal crodhy adpevos dpuTopou, | medéxer Adxavd Twa KTelvas 
avravatpetrat) or bill-hook (schol. Plat. symp. 208 D yvovds d€ TovTo 6 Kéddpos, oreidas 
éavrov evredel oKeun ws EvioThy Kal Spéravoy AaBwy, éEwl Tov Xdpaxa TGV Todeuiwy mpoyel. 


40—2 


628 The axe carried by priests and priestesses 


temple of Zeus at Olympia, carved before the middle of the fifth 
century perhaps by an Elean sculptor, figures 
him swinging the same trusty weapon against 
a brutal Centaur’. Finally, Theseus was said 
to have freed from robbers the old mountain- 
road that led from Athens to Delphoi?; and, 
whenever the Athenians sent a sacred embassy 
along that road, it was customary for the pro- 
cession to be headed by men bearing double 
axes as though to clear the way‘. In these 
peculiar axe-bearers I would venture to detect, 
not a meaningless company of pioneers’, but 
the performers of an ancient ‘Minoan’ lustra- 
tion, the trué significance of which had long 
been forgotten®. It is noteworthy that a fine 
axe of bronze, inscribed with ‘Minoan’ cha- 
racters, has come to light at Delphoi (fig. 533)’, 


x.7.d.). In the Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 84 I suggested that 
this was an ancient ritual costume. But ? 

1 G. Treu in Olympia iii. 76f. pl. 18—21, 2, pls. 26, 27, 
1f., Overbeck Gr. Plastik* i. 317 ff. fig. 77 M and fig. 84, 
Collignon Hist. de la Sculpt. gr. i. 446 ff. fig. 232 A, B. The 
cE restoration of the axe is certain, thanks to Paus. 5. 10. 8 Tq 

5€ Onoeds auvvdmevos Teéxer TOVs Kevtavpous. So on a vase- 
fragment at Berlin (Furtwangler Vasensamml. Berlin ii. 664 f. 
no. 2403, E. Curtius in the Arch. Zeit. 1883 xli. 348 ff. pl. 17, 
1 f., Reinach Rép. Vases i. 450, 3 f.). 

2 Schol. Aisch. Zum. 13 (cited zzfra n. 4), schol. Aristeid. 
p- 324, 20 ff. Dindorf. 

3 E. Pfuhl De Atheniensium pompis sacris Berolini 1900 
p. 104 ff. j 

4 Schol. Aisch. Aum. 13 ol A@nvator. Onoeds yap rHv oddv 
éxdOnpe Tv AnoTGv Kal, bray wéumwow els AeXPods Oewpida, 
mpoépxovrar éxovres medéxers ws Sinmepedoovres (F. H. M. 
Blaydes corr. Ounmepwoorres or e&nwepwoovres) THY YHV. 

5 E. Curtius ‘Zur Geschichte des Wegebaus bei den 
Griechen’ in his Gesammelte Abhandlungen Berlin 1894 i. 33 
(cp. p- 69): ‘Erinnerung an die alten Werkmeister, die einst 
zuerst dem Gotte die Stege bereitet hatten.’ 

6 A. Boéthius Die Pythais: Studien zur Geschichte der 
Verbindungen zwischen Athen und Delphi Uppsala 1918 
p- 31 ff. thinks that the axes were originally votive, like the 
Tenedian axe (zz/ra §3 (c) i (0)). G. C. Richards in the 
Class. Rev. 1919 xxxiv. 113 says: ‘ Either this was the case, 
or they were relics of the ancient ritual, as observed in the 
case of the Buphonia’ (22/ra § 9 (h) ii (a)). 

7 Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1894 xiv. 280 
fig. 7, P. Perdrizet in the Fowzlles de Delphes v. 1. 5 fig. 14 
(=my fig. 533). The axe is now in the Ashmolean Museum 
at Oxford. 








The axe carried by priests and priestesses 629 


not to mention many little votive double axes of the same material 
(fig. 534, a—d)'. P. Perdrizet®, indeed, conjectures that Ladys, the 
eunuch temple-sweeper sometimes credited with the Delphic maxim 
‘Know thyself’, was the eponym of the Delphian phratry Lady- 
adat*, and that both names should be connected with the words 
Labyrinthos and labrys. 

















5 








Nya) 


he 








| 


| 





] 
| 








Fig. 534. 


A good example of the /éérvys surviving for ritual purposes has 
recently been published by Schweitzer®. It is a bronze medallion 
from Smyrna, of the first or second century A.D., now in the Ethno- 
logical Museum at Munich. On it we see (fig. 535) a man wearing 
a pointed fi/os with chin-band and a heavy cloak, who puts incense 


1 P. Perdrizet Joc. cé¢. v. 2. 119 ff. figs. 438, 439, 440 (=my fig. 534,@: length 
07095), 441 (=my fig. 534, 4: length o'07™), 442, 443 (=my fig. 534, ¢: length 
0°065™), 444 (=my fig. 534, d: length of axe-head 0°05"), 445. 

2 P. Perdrizet Joc. cit. v. I. 4. 

3 Schol. Plat. Phzleb. 48. c. 

+ The AaBuvddac are mentioned in Roehl /zscr. Gr. ant. no. 319, 2 (a rock-cut inscrip- 
tion at Delphoi) rév Aaédudday (séc) and in J. Baunack in Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Diéal.- 
Znschr. ii. 718 ff. no. 2561= Michel Recueil ad’ Jnscr. gr. no. 995= Dittenberger Sy//. zvscr. 
Gr.? no. 438 @ 3, 7, 10, 19, 6 64, 83f., 101, 107, @186, 207 f., 208 f., 214 (an inscription 
found at Delphoi, giving regulations for the phratry Labyadai and dating from the close 
of s. v B.C.). 

° Schweitzer in the Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 191g xxxiy Arch. Anz. pp. 38— 
49 fig. 1 (=my fig. 535). Diameter of medallion 6°6"™. 


630 The axe carried by priests and priestesses 


on a ¢hymiatérion with his right hand and shoulders a double axe 
with his left. A cord from his girdle is perhaps attached to the dog 
that is seen behind him, while a second dog beyond the incense- 
burner barks at the smoke. In the field is a bay-branch, and a 
large star or sun shines in the sky. Interpretation is difficult. The 
pilos, the dogs, and the brazier make one think of Hephaistos, whose 
temple on Mount Aitne had an ever-burning fire and a precinct full 
of sacred dogs!: the god himself appears to have been a Grecised 


EN 
eS 
Any \ 


S oe 
Wises nee 





form of the Syrian Hadran*. Schweitzer justly remarks that the 
priest of the medallion resembles his deity, but seeks to relate the 
latter to the Roman Robigus, the Greek Apollon Erethémios, and 
the Phoenician ReSef or ReSup (fig. 536)%—a connexion hardly 
proven, though by no means impossible. 

In Italy too the axe retained its sanctity well into classical 
times. The Iron Age notwithstanding, priests continued to sacrifice 
with a bronze axe called aczerzs+ or, as some would have it, seces- 


1 Ail. de nat. an. 11. 3. 

2 K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 405. 

3 As shown on a razor from Carthage (A. L. Delattre in the Comptes rendus de I’ Acad. 
des inscr. et belles-lettres 1900 p. 501 fig. (from which my fig. 536 is drawn) = Schweitzer 
Joc. cit. fig. 2) and an Egyptian seal-cylinder at Berlin (H. Prinz Altordentalische Symbolik 
Berlin 1915 p. 130 pl. 12, 2). 

+ Fest. p. 10, 1 Miiller, p. 9, 9 Lindsay acieris securis aerea, qua in sacrificiis utebantur 
sacerdotes. Cp. Plaut. fad. incert. frag. 58 Goetz—Schoell ap. Philoxen. in the Corpus 





The axe carried by priests and priestesses 631 


_ pita’. The pontifical axe that appears on denarzi struck by 














Fig. 536. 


glossariorum Latinorum Lipsiae 1888 ii (ed. G. Goetz—G. Gundermann). 13 no. g acceres 
(sic) d&lv<n> lepopdytrov ws IIhadros and other glosses cited in the 7hes. Ling. Lat. i. 
399, 69 ff. Walde Lat. etym. Worterb.” p. 8 says: ‘nach Biicheler Rh. Mus. Xtvi (1891), 
233 ff. zu acies ‘‘Schneide, Schirfe,” actdrium ‘‘ vulgirer Name des Stahls” (s. acer). 
Bildung unklar.’ 

1 Paul. ex Fest. p. 336, 9 Miiller, p. 453, 16 f- Lindsay secespitam alii securim, alii 
dolabram aeneam, alii cultellum esse putant. But see Fest. p. 348 a 4 ff. Miiller, p. 472, 
19 ff. Lindsay <s>ecespitam esse Antisti<us Labeo (frag. 21 Funaioli) ait cultrum> 
ferreum, oblongum, mani<brio eburneo rotund >0, solido, vincto ad ca<pulum argento 
auroque, > fixum clavis aeneis, ae<re Cyprio, quo flami>nes, flaminicae, virgi<nes 
pontificesque ad sa>crificia utuntur=interp. Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 4. 262. This more 
detailed account is borne out by Suet. 77d. 25 nam et inter pontifices sacrificanti simul 
pro secespita plumbeum cultrum subiciendum curavit. Walde of. cz¢.” p. 692: ‘jedenfalls 
zu seco..., obgleich die Bildung (oder Zusammensetzung ?) unklar ist (s. caesfes).’ 

Fest. p. 3184 16 ff. Miiller, p. 422, 32 ff. Lindsay scena ab aliis, a quibusdam sacena 
appellatur dolabra pontificalis, Paul. ex Fest. p. 319, 8 Miiller, p. 423, 13 Lindsay scena 
sive sacena dolabra pontificalis. Walde of. cit.? p. 668: ‘aus *sacesna, zu saxum..., secare, 
scéna.” De Vit Lat. Lex. s.vv. ‘sacena,’ ‘sescenaris’ explains Liv. 41. 15 dovzs sescenarés 
as ‘an ox struck by the pontifical axe.’ 


632 The axe carried by priests and priestesses 


P. Sulpicius Galba! c. 69 B.C. (fig. 537) is surmounted by a lion’s 
head. Denariz issued by lulius Caesar? in Gaul ¢. 50—49 B.C. (fig. 5 38), 
small bronze pieces with similar types circulated in 49 (?) B.C., after 
his departure, by A. Hirtius*, awrez and denarii struck by Caesar‘ 
himself at Rome in 49 B.C. (fig. 539), dexardz and quinariz of 43 B.C. 





Fig. 540. Fig. 541. 


bearing the names of M. Antonius and M. Lepidus’ (figs. 540, 541), 
exhibit the same sacrificial axe topped by a wolf’s head with open 
jaws. These animal heads must not be regarded as merely deco- 
rative: rather they give graphic expression to the death-dealing 
force conceived as resident in the axe itself. Two specimens of 


1 Morell. Zhes. Num. Fam. Rom. i. 402f. pl. Sulpicia, 2, Babelon Monn. rép. rom. 
ii. 473 nos. 6 fig., 7, M. Bahrfeldt Machtrdge und Berichtigungen zur Miinzhkunde der 
vomischen Republik Wien 1897 p. 276 pl. 13, 17, Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. i. 
433 no. 3516 pl. 44, 18, no. 3517 pl. 44, 19, no. 3518, G. F. Hill Hzstorical Roman Coins 
London 1909 p. 104. 

2 Morell. Zhes. Num. Fam. Rom.i. 209 pl. Iulia 4, 7, B, Babelon Monn. rép. rom. 
ii. ro no. g fig., Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. ii. 390 f. no. 27 pl. 103, 5, nos. 28—30, 
G. F. Hill Azstorical Roman Coins London 1909 pp- 100 f., 104 pl. 11, 58. 

3 Babelon Monn. rép. rom. i. 543 no. 3 fig., Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. i. 525 
N. 4, il. 390 nN. I. 

4 Morell. Zhes. Num. Fam. Rom. i. 208 pl. Tulia 4, 4, Babelon Monn. rép. rom. ii. 
17 no. 25 fig., no. 26, Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. i. 505 f. nos. 3953, 3954, pl. 49, 
12, 3955, 3956, 3957 pl. 49, 13. Supra p. 110 n. 8. 

5 Morell. Zhes. Num. Fam. Rom. i. 11 f. pl. Aemilia 2, 6, Babelon Monn. rép. rom. 
i. 130f. nos. 27 fig., 28, 29 fig., 30, 31 fig., 32 fig., Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. ii. 
392 ff. no. 31 pl. 103, 6, no. 32 pl. 103, 7, no. 33 pl. 103, 8, nos. 34, 35. 

6 Cp. eg. a Persian axe-head of bronze, found at Ekbatana (Hamadan) and now in 
the British Museum, which ends in a stylised lion (W. Greenwell in Avchaeologia 1902 
Iviii. 9 fig. 11, Forrer Readlex. p. 66 fig. 56); an Armenian axe-head of bronze from Van, 
which has a lion with two hounds in a like position (W. Greenwell in Archacologia 1902 
lviii. g fig. 10, Sir W. M. Flinders Petrie Zoo/s and Weapons London 1917 p. 13 pl. 11, 
140); Scythian model axe-heads of bronze, from Jarmolintsy and from the district of 
Romny, terminating in animal heads (E. H. Minns Scythians and Greeks Cambridge 1913 
pp. 72, 178 fig. 73). See also the axe-heads from Hallstatt (swgra p. 618 fig. 515). 





The axe carried by priests and priestesses 633 


the symbolic or model axe-head in bronze have come down to us. 
One in the British Museum has a perforated crescentic blade backed 
by a bull, the whole measuring some three inches in length 
(fig. 542). The other, once in the Forman collection, is very similar 
in design and size, but has a solid blade (fig. 543)2, The bull pre- 
sumably, though not quite certainly, here stands for the victim 
sacrificed. 

In this connexion a word may be added concerning the axes 
carried by Roman lictors. It seems probable that they were ori- 





Fig. 542. 


ginally no ordinary instruments of execution, but sacred weapons 
borne before the king as human representative of the sky-god. 
The lictor’s axe-blade, at least in late republican times, was given 
a semi-equine form. Denariz of A. Postumius Albinus struck 
c. 82 B.C. show a togate figure erect between an eagle-standard and 
a lictor’s axe, the blade of the latter being combined with the fore- 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 357 no. 2959 (wrongly described), supra p. 622 n. 3. 
Fig. 542 is from a photograph by Mr R. B. Fleming. 

2 Sir C. H. Smith The Forman Collection : Catalogue of the Egyptian, Greek & Roman 
Antiquities London 1899 p. 29 no. 160 fig. (=my fig. 543): ‘ Sacrificial axe (?). The 
blade, which has an almost lunate edge, appears never to have been sharpened. The 
thicker part above the blade is modelled in the form of a bull, whose hollow body is 
intended for receiving the heft. At the point where the heft is inserted is a slight pro- 
longation with two grooves, intended for the attachment of the binding; between these 
grooves a hole is pierced, probably for a rivet, and two further holes are left, one on each 
side of the blade. Along the back of the animal a club is moulded in relief, the handle 
towards its tail; and below the bull’s belly on each side is a sacrificial knife (?) in relief... 
The form of knife here shown seems to be represented on Pergamene coins of Maxi- 
minus.... Height 0°08 in.; width 0’095 in. ; greatest thickness, 0025 in. [For ‘in.’ read 
‘m.’ A.B.C.] On a label inside is written, ‘‘ Pr. Vans, 1865.”’ The axe was acquired by 
Mr W. T. Ready. 


634 The axe carried by priests and priestesses 


part of a tiny galloping horse (fig. 544). Denari of C. Norbanus 
issued at about the same date have a similar axe placed between a 





Fig. 543- 


corn-ear and a caduceus (fig. 545) or between a ship’s prow on one 
side of it and a corn-ear with a caduceus on the other (fig. 546)? 
Asses of P. Canidius Crassus, the legate of M. Antonius, struck 





Fig. 545- Fig. 546. Fig. 547- 





perhaps in Egypt after 31 B.C. for Caesarion, exhibit the horse on 
a somewhat larger scale (fig. 547)*. The little steed—a detail duly 


1 Morell. Thes. Num. Fam. Rom. i. 359 pl. Postumia 2, 8, Babelon Monn. rép. rom. 
iil. 381 f. no. 8 fig., Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. i. 352 nos. 2839, 2840 pl. 40, 16, 
2841—2843. 

2 Morell. Zhes. Num. Fam. Rom. i. 296 f. pl. Norbana, 2, A, B; 3, Cc, Babelon AZonn. 
rép. rom. ii. 259 no. I fig.; no. 2 fig., Brzt. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. i. 347 ff. nos. 
2770—2772, 2773 pl. 40, 12, 27742801, 2802 pl. 40, 13, 28032823, 2825, 2826; 2827 
pl. 40, 14, 2828—2835. 

3 Morell. Zhes. Num. Fam. Rom. i. 243 pl. Licinia 3, B, Babelon Monn. rép. rom. i. 
309 no. 1 fig. (horse omitted), Brit. Mus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. ii. 532 no. 231 (with 





The decoration of the double axe 635 


noted by old Rasche!, though ignored by recent numismatists?— 
may be compared with the horse on the bronze axe-heads from 
Hallstatt®. Further, the rods bound round the lictor’s axe by means 
of a red leather strap‘ recall the bundle of divining rods used e.g. by 
the Scythians® and the Germans‘, and were perhaps in the far past 
employed for purposes of divination’. Be that as it may, rods thus 
brought into contact with a sacred axe® and thereby charged with 
its virtues would doubtless be deemed of especial value in expelling 
evil from a malefactor’®. 

That the axe-bearers of the Byzantine court” had any such reli- 
gious history behind them, we have no reason to think”. 


(v) The decoration of the double axe. 


Sacred and symbolic axes are sometimes characterised as such 
by their material or ornamentation. Thus the thin triangular axe- 
heads of jadeite, nephrite, and chloromelanite, which date from 
mesolithic or neolithic times and are widely distributed in southern 
and western Europe”, have been regarded by W. Osborne as cere- 
monial or princely weapons”. And the magnificent axe-hammers 
of blue™ or green stone” found in the débris of the second city at 


H. A. Grueber’s n. 1) pl. 116, 19. See now V. Gardthausen in the Mum. Zettschr. 1916 
PP. 153—162 (G. Macdonald in The Year's Work in Class. Stud. 1918—1919 p. 19). 

1 Rasche Lex. Mum. iv. 1732, viii. 332. 

2 E.g. by E. Babelon and H. A. Grueber. 

3 Supra p. 618 fig. 515. A Syro-Phoenician axe-head of bronze in the Berlin museum 
is shaped like a half ellipse with two large holes in the blade: on it are two small lions 
in the round facing each other over their prey (L. Messerschmidt in the Am#éliche Berichte 
aus den Koniglichen Kunstsammlungen 1909 xxx. 97 ff. fig. 62, Am. Journ. Arch. 1909 
xlii. 367 fig. 3). 

4 Lyd. de magistrat. 1. 32 p. 33, 10 ff. Wiinsch. 

5 Hdt. 4. 67. 6 Tac. Germ. Io. 

7 See A. W. Buckland Anthropological Studies London 1891 p. 140 ff. (‘ Divination— 
by the rod and by the arrow’) and especially O. Schrader Prehistoric Antiquities of the 
Aryan Peoples trans. F. B. Jevons London 1890 p. ae = id. Reallex. pp. 506 f., 73 Tite 

8 Class, Rev. 1904 xviii. 362 n. 3, ne § 3 (c) i (c) 

® See eg. Frazer Golden Bough*: The Supeeoat: p. 264 f. (‘Beating people with 
Hye net which possess and impart cal virtues’). 

10 Anna Komnena Alex. 14. 3 (ii. 269 Schopen), Io. Kinnamos zs¢. 1. 3 (p. 8 
Meineke), 3. 4 (p. 97), 4. 21 (p. 187), Niketas Choniates Zsaac. Angelus et Alex. fil. 4 
(p. 745 Bekker), Georgios Pachymeres de Andron. Palaeol. 1. 27 (ii. 77 Bekker). The 
meNexupdpo mentioned by these authors are, of course, to be aistimirtiched from the mere 
aiwngdpo of Georgios Pachymeres de Mich. Palaeol. 6. 29 (i. 504 Bekker). 

1 See Ducange Gloss. med. et inf. Lat. s.v. ‘ Baparyyo..’ 

1 For bibliography see J. Schlemm Worterbuch zur Vorgeschichte Berlin 1908 pp. 150— 
152 figs. a, b. 

18 W. Osborne Das Beil und seine typischen Formen in vorhistorischer Zeit Dresden 
1887 p. 27 pl. 5, 3 

14 W. Dorpfeld 7roja und Jlion Athens 1902 i. 375 fig. 326. 

9 Td. ib. i. 374 fig. 323, cp. i. 375 figs. 324 and 325. 


636 The decoration of the double axe 


Troy have been recognised by S. Reinach* as cult-objects!: it 
might even be held that they were made of /apzs lazuli, jadeite, 
etc. just because the colours of these stones were deemed suitable 
to the belongings of a sky-god. 

Again, a perforated axe of amber, nearly five inches long, from 



























































Fig. 550. 


Bohuslan (fig. 548) is described by O. Montelius as a symbolic or 
votive weapon®. The same might be said of a smaller specimen 
discovered by A. Pasqui in a grave of the Early Iron Age at 
Bisenzio*. Amber beads in the form of double axes and hammers 
(figs. 549, 550) have frequently come to light in the long barrows of 


1S. Reinach in L’ Anthropologie 1902 xiii. 24, cp. Folk-Lore 1903 xiv. 283 n. I. 
2 O. Montelius Kulturgeschichte Schwedens Leipzig 1906 p. 56 fig. gt (=my fig. 548: 
scale $), Forrer Reallex. p. 88, cp. B. Schnittger in Hoops Reailex. p. 260. 
3 A. Pasqui in the Wot. Scavz 1886 p. 292 (‘una piccola ascia di ambra, forata nell’ 
occhio, lunga mm. 25 e larga al taglio mm. 20’), L. Pigorini in the Budlettino di paletno- 
. logia italiana 1890 xvi. 75, M. Hoernes Urgeschichte der bildenden Kunst in Europa 
Wien 1808 p. 471 f., 2d. 26.2 Wien 1915 p. 514. 


- 


The decoration of the double axe 637 


Denmark and southern Sweden!: M. Hoernes? and B. Schnittger*® 
take them to be symbols of the sky-god or thunder-god ; and, re- 
membering that jewelry in general often originates in magic‘, and 
that amber in particular seems to have been associated with the 
sun-god®, we may readily grant that the beads in question had some 
such religious significance. 

In the sanctuary at Vzrou Khanz near Knossos S. Xanthoudides 
discovered four enormous double axes of bronze, with flat blades 
rivetted to their sockets®. These were of course ritual in character. 
But miniature axes in gold, electrum, or gilt bronze would likewise 
be appropriate to the flashing god of heaven. The yellow double 
axes of the sarcophagus from Hagia Triada were supposed by 
Rk. Paribeni to represent originals in gold or gilded metal’. Bulls’- 
heads with double axes of thin gold were found by the score at 
Mykenai’. And small double axes made of bronze plated with gold 
came from a treasure-chamber in the palace at Knossos (fig. 551)’. 
The trinkets recovered by D. G. Hogarth from the statue-base of 
the oldest (¢c. 710—c. 660 B.C.) Artemision at Ephesos include a 


1 C. Neergaard ‘ Ravsmykkerne i Stenalderen’ in the Aarddger for nordisk Oldkyn- 
dighed og Historte 1888 p. 291 ff. figs. 14 and 15 (=my figs. 549 and 550: scale 4), 
O. Montelius Zhe Civilisation of Sweden in heathen times trans. F. H. Woods London 
1888 p. 23 with fig. 24 (from Vester-Gotland), zd. Musée des antiguités nationales de 
Stockholm: Catalogue sommatre Stockholm 1899 p. 4-pl. 1, 4 (from Inston), P. B. Du 
Chaillu Zhe Viking Age London 18809 i. 80 f. fig. 17 (from Stege in the island of Méen), 
S. Miiller Wordische Altertumskunde trans. O. L. Jiriczek Strassburg 1897 i. 152 with 
figs. 74 and 75 after C. Neergaard Joc. czt., J. Déchelette Manuel d’archéologie préhistorique 
Paris 1908 i. 625, B. Schnittger in Hoops Readlex. p. 260. 

2M. Hoernes Watur- und Urgeschichte des Menschen Wien und Leipzig 1909 ii. 345 
(‘Sie sind wohl Symbole einer (Himmels-)Gottheit und liefern ausserdem einen Beleg 
fiir die oft vorkommende Sitte, kleine Abbilder grosser Gebrauchsgegenstande als (talis- 
manische ?) Schmuckform zu tragen’). 

3 B. Schnittger in Hoops Real/ex. p. 399 pl. 33, 1 f. (‘ Die religidse Bedeutung dieser 
Perlen als Symbole des Donnergotts ist auffallig’). 

4 See e.g. Schrader Reallex. p. 729. Sir W. Ridgeway goes so far as to say ‘that 
jewellery and every other kind of ornament arose not from zsthetic but from magical 
considerations’ (in Wax 1919 no. 84: cp. zd. ‘ The Origin of Jewellery’ in the Report of 
the British Association for the Advancement of Science 1903 (Southport) London 1904 
p- 815 f., z@. ‘ The Origin of the Turkish Crescent’ in Zhe Journal of the Royal Anthropo- 
logical Institute of Great Britain and Ireland (go8 xxxviil. 241 ff. pls. 19g—25, zd. in Sir 
J. E. Sandys A Companion to Latin Studies? Cambridge 1913 p. 581, zd. in L. Whibley 
A Companion to Greek Studies* Cambridge 1916 p. 366). 

5 Supra p. 498. 

6 S. Xanthoudides in the Kpyrixh Epnuepls Aug. 5, 1919, Sir A. J. Evans Zhe Palace 
of Minos London 1921 i. 436f. fig. 313 (a specimen 1'20™ in diameter). The associated 
pottery was of the ‘ Late Minoan i’ period. 

7 R. Paribeni in the Aon. d. Lincez 1908 xix. 29 and 43 (cited supra p. 518 n. 1). 

8 Supra p. 538 fig. 409. 

9 Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901—1902 viii. ror fig. 58 (=my 
fig. 551: slightly enlarged). 


638 The decoration of the double axe 


diminutive double axe of electrum (fig. 552)!, dark electrum pin- 
heads showing a ball on a plinth composed of four double axes’, 
earrings of electrum’, and a bead of gold+ embellished with double 
axes. Further, in view of the fact that the word /ddrys is Lydian’, 
it is interesting to note that a hoard of jewelry found in 1878 near 








Fig. 553. 


Tralleis (Azdim) in Lydia® and referable to the seventh century B.C.’ 
contains numerous double axes made of thin gold plate. They are 
decorated with rosettes, circles, and dots (fig. 553). One piece, 
shaped like a single axe with a semicircular perforated blade’, has 


1 D. G. Hogarth Lxcavations at Ephesus London 1908 p. 103 pl. 5, 34 (=my fig. 552). 

2 Jd. ib. p. 101 pl. 6, 15 and 29, pl. 10, 47. 

3 Jd. ib. p. 103 f. pl. 6, 58f., pl. 10, 38 and 46. 

Wd. 20: pe Dia pla gaia > Supra p. 560. 

6 A. Dumont in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1879 iii. 129 f. pls. 4—5 (inadequate), W. 
Froehner Collection H. Hoffmann Paris 1886 pl. 20 (better), Perrot—Chipiez Ast. de 
l’Art v. 294 ff. figs. 203 (=my fig. 554), 204, 206 (=my fig. 553). 

7 See A. Furtwangler in Roscher Lex. MZyth. i. 1767, F. H. Marshall in the &rzt. 
Mus. Cat. Jewellery p. xxiv. 

8 Cp. supra p. 620 ff. 





The decoration of the double axe 


639 


roundels ornamented with the heads of rams and bulls, two heads 








+ age UH 
Shy [aout 








|e SRA 


tf WAZ == 





of griffins, two starry disks, and an 
archaic female figure flanked by 
lines of zig-zags (fig. 554). Lastly, 
a gold hair-pin from the necro- 
polis of Koban takes the form of 
an axe with recurved blade, the 
socket of which is adorned with 
a little group representing a stag 
attacked by two hounds (fig. 555)% 

Sir Arthur Evans draws atten- 
tion to the fact that the double 
axe in ‘Minoan’ art is frequently 
adorned with diagonals and zig- 
zags (fig. 556). He contends that 


1 N. Kondakof—J. Tolstoi—S. Reinach 
Antiguités de la Russie méridionale Paris 
1891 p. 459 fig. 402 (=my fig. 555: on a 
reduced scale). 

2 Sir A. J. Evans in the Ann. Brit. Sch. 
Ath. 1900—I901 Vil. 53 fig. 15 (=my fig. 556, 
cp. M. Hoernes Urgeschichte der bildenden 
Kunst in Europa? Wien 1915 p. 515 fig. 2: 
(z) Double axe on vase-fragment; (4) Bronze 
votive double axe from Dictaean Cave; 
(c) Bronze votive double axe from Dictaean 
Cave, with right wing restored; (¢) Double 
axe on cornelian from Aadouzz, enlarged). 
For other examples see D. Mackenzie in the 


rails = 
nist ai 


Wipf Z Ug Ee 
ty 2 Z 
a) RY, Ze. ZZ 








Fig. 555. 








640 The decoration of the double axe 


these markings ‘had a special religious association!’; and I have 
elsewhere? hazarded the suggestion that they symbolised the 





Fig. 556. 


lightning’. A parallel might be sought in the crossed lines and 


Journ. Hell. Stud. 1903 xxiii. 204 fig. 15 (double axes on vase-fragments from 
Knossos), s¢pra pp. 518, 521 (double axes on sarcophagus from Hagia Triada), supra 
p- 526 f. fig. 394 (double axes on vase from Pseira), supra p. 538 fig. 407 (double axe on 
agate from Knossos), sara p. 623 fig. 525 (double axe on stone mould from Palazkastro). 
Cp. an ivory double axe from the sanctuary of Artemis Orthéa at Sparta (R. M. Dawkins 
in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1906—1907 xiii. roof. fig. 31, 7 =my fig. 558). 

1 Sir A. J. Evans Joc. cit. p. 52. 

2 Class. Rev. 1903 xvii. 406. 

% On the zigzag representation of lightning among the Greeks and Romans see 
T. H. Martin La foudre ’électricité et le magnétisme chez les anciens Paris 1866 pp. 396 ff., 
411 f. 


SS 


The decoration of the double axe 641 


chevrons that appear on Charon’s hammer in a tomb-painting at 
Vulci (fig. 557)1; for, if we may assume 
that he was originally a god of the 
Underworld?, his hammer could be- 
token chthonian thunders, and the 
zigzags upon it chthonian lightnings. 
It was perhaps these ‘nether thunder- 
bolts*’ that earned for him the very 
sobriquet of Chdron, ‘ He of the Flash- 
ing Eyes’ Further reflexion has, 


1H. Brunn ‘Pitture etrusche’ in the Azz. d. 
Inst. 1859 xxxi. 356f., Mon. d. Inst. vi—vii pl. 31, 
1 (of which my fig. 557 is an excerpt), E. Saglio 
in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 1100 fig. 1359. 
Further bibliography in W. Helbig Fihrer durch 
die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer 
in Rom*® Leipzig 1912 i. 323, who notes that the 
paintings are not earlier than 300 B.c. 

2 Monographs etc.: J. A. Ambrosch De Fig. 557. 
Charonte Etrusco Vratislaviae 1837 (reviewed by f 
E. Braun in the Azz. d. Inst, 1837 ix. 253—274), G. Krueger Charon und Thanatos 
Berlin 1866, N. G. Polites Medérn éri rod Biov rav Newrépwy “ENA jv wv Athens 1874 ii. 237— 
301 (‘ Xdpos’), D. C. Hesseling Charos. Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss 
des neugriechischen Volksglaubens Leiden—Leipzig 1897, S. Rocco 
Il mito di Caronte nel? arte e nella letteratura Torino 1897, 
O. Waser ‘Charon’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 1898 i. 152—182, zd. 
Charon, Charun, Charos Berlin 1898 (with important reviews by 
D. Bassi in the Rivista di filologia e a’ istruzione classica 1899 xxvii. 
473—475 and by U. v. Wilamowitz-Mollendorff in Hermes 1899 
xxxiv. 227—230), A. Furtwangler ‘Charon’ in the Archiv f. Rel. 
1905 Vill. 1g1—202 with two figs., J. C. Lawson Modern Greek Folklore and Ancient Greek 
Religion Cambridge rgto pp. g8—117 (‘Charon’). A fresh treatment of the theme is in 
preparation by my friend and former pupil Miss M. E. H. Lloyd. A survey of recent 
hypotheses is given by Gruppe JZth. Lit. 1908 pp. 438—441, who concludes: ‘ Man 
wird sich beim Lesen dieser Materialsammlung der...Konsequenz schwerlich entziehen 
k6onnen, die v. Wilamowitz-Mollendorff, Herm. 1898, 227 ff. ausspricht, dass Ch. 
urspriinglich wie der neugriechische Charos und der etruskische Charun nicht der Toten- 
fahrmann, sondern der Totengott selbst war,’ etc. 

Personally I incline to think that Charon was, to begin with, an Anatolian god of the 
Underworld (J. C. Lawson of. cé¢. p. 116 makes him a Pelasgian god of death) much like 
Hephaistos, that he has left traces of his early cult in the various Xapwrea or Xapwura of 
the Maiandros-valley (O. Waser Chavon, Charun, Charos p. 61 ff., 7d. in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. iii. 2183, L. Biirchner and W. Ruge 2d. iii. 2183 f.), and that he was brought 
by the Etruscans from Lydia to Italy. When and where he acquired the traits of the 
grim ferryman is a problem as yet unsolved. In any case he stands for the lower, as 
Zeus for the upper, world: cp. Aisop. prov. 5 (E. L. von Leutsch—F. W. Schneidewin 
Paroemiographi Graect Gottingae 1851 ii. 228) 7 Zeds 7) Xdpwv: 7 evdalpovos Blos 7 Tédos. 

3 A. Caecina ap. Sen. nat. guaestt. 2. 49. 3 and Plin. wat. hist. 2. 138 f., cp. Manil. 
2. 892 (fulmina codd. R. Bentley cj. cu/mzna). See further T. H. Martin Za foudre 
Pélectricité et le magnétisme chez les anciens Paris 1866 p. 178 and C. O. Thulin Dze 
etruskische Disciplin i. Die Blitzlehre Goteborg 1906 pp. 34, 49- 

4 U. von Wilamowitz-Mollendorff Homerische Untersuchungen Berlin 1884 p. 225 








Cur 41 


642 The decoration of the double axe 


however, led me to abandon any such view of the patterned axe or 
hammer, as involving a piece of—I do not say 
impossible, but at worst improbable and at best 
unproved, symbolism. I incline rather to take a 
hint from my friend Dr A. C. Haddon, who points 
out that patterns of the sort are often to be de- 
rived from the lashing used to hold an early axe- 
head in position'. The double axe, when a sacred 
weapon, would tend to be decorated ; and its deco- 
ration need not have a more recondite meaning. 
A neolithic celt of greenstone published by 
C. Blinkenberg? has incised upon it an arborescent 
design (fig. 559) resembling the Donnerbesen*® or 
‘thunder-besom’ marked on the walls of old- 
fashioned houses in Holstein, Vierlande, etc. as 
a protection against lightning’: Now Donnerbesen 
is the name popularly given in Germany and 
Switzerland to the mistletoe’ or to any bushy 





Fig. 559- 


n. 23, O. Waser Charon, Charun, Charos p. 15 f., 7d. in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 2177 (‘ Xdpwv...ist eine Art Kurzform zu xap-omé-s, mit (wild) 
funkelndem Blick’). On lightning as a flash from the eye of a deity see supra p. 501 ff. 
B. Schmidt Das Volksleben der Neugriechen Leipzig 1871 i. 224f. justly compares the fiery 
eyes of Charon as described by Verg. Aen. 6. 300 stant lumina flamma (in culex 216 f. 
Jiagrantia taedis | lumina is the reading of the better codd. B. C.H.) with the lightning 
glance repeatedly attributed to him in modern Greek folk-song (e.g. A. Passow Popularia 
carmina Grecia recentioris Lipsiae 1860 no. 428.4 cay dorpamy 'v’ 7dO Bréupa Tou, 
no. 430.10 and no. 516.20 THs dorpamfs Ta patia: see also N. G. Polites of. cit. i. 
254f., J. C. Lawson of. ct. p. 100). 

1 A.C. Haddon Evolution in Art London 1895 p. 85f. pl. 1, 1—3. 

2 C, Blinkenberg The Thunderweapon in Religion and Folklore Cambridge 1911 p. 98 
fig. 34 (=my fig. 559) a celt (o°2™ long) of unknown Provenance, formerly in the Kyhn 
collection, now owned by A. Petersen of Lyngby in Denmark. 

3 C. Petersen Der Donnerbesen (xxi. Bericht der Konig]. Schleswig-Holstein-Lauen- 
burgischen Gesellschaft fiir Sammlung und Erhaltung vaterlandischer Alterthiimer) Kiel 
1862 (extr. from the Jahrbuch fiir die Landeskunde der Herzogthiimer Schleswig u.s.w. 
1862 v. 225 ff.). 

On the folk-lore of brooms in general see F. Kunze ‘ Der Birkenbesen ein Symbol des 
Donar’ in the Zxternationales Archiv fiir Ethnographie tgoo xiii. 81—g7, 125—162 (the 
author deals with the Donnerbesen on p. 145 f., but fails to establish any special connexion 
between the birch and the thunder-god), E. Samter Gedurt, Hochzeit und Tod Leipzig— 
Berlin 1911 pp. 32 ff., 155, 170, 199f., W. L. Hildburgh ‘Some Magical Applications 
of Brooms in Japan’ in Folk-Lore 1919 xxx. 169—207. 

4 Fraulein J. Mestorf in the Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologie 1889 xxi. (184) with figs. 1—3 
(Holstein), Virchow 2. 1890 xxii. (77) figs. 1 and 2 (pattern in brick-work of a Saxon 
smithy, Holstein), z@. 26. 1890 xxii. (554) (Vierlande, on houses dated 1618 and 1626 A.D.). 

5 C. L. Rochholz Schwedzersagen aus dem Aargau Aarau 1856 ii. 202 cited by A. Kuhn 
Die Herabkunft des Feuers und des Gottertranks® Giitersloh 1886 p. 204, R. Folkard 
Plant Lore, Legends, and Lyrics London 1884 p. 440, W. Schwartz J/udogermanischer 
Volksglaube Berlin 1885 p. 102, E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 pp. 86, 
121, 260, S. Seligmann Der bise Blick und Verwandtes Berlin 1910 ii. 77, cp. 92- 





The decoration of the double axe 643 


growth on the boughs of trees!, such parasitic plants being deemed 
the product of a lightning-flash?. Sir James Frazer*® (herein fol- 
lowing A. Kuhn*) points out that the Druids too regarded oak- 
mistletoe as fallen from heaven’, and suggests that, in their view, 
the plant left on the oak by the lightning was nothing less than 
lightning itself, or at least a visible emanation of celestial fire. If 
so, a broom of mistletoe or the like would be the best possible 
lightning-rod ; and even its effigy in the brick-work of the doorway 
would save the house from the most destructive storm. Since neo- 
lithic celts were in a later age held to be thunderbolts®, they might 
well be adorned with such a symbol as this’. Precise parallels from 
the classical area are wanting*; for, though the double axe is inti- 
mately associated with sacred trees®, no specimen as yet discovered 
bears a definitely arboreal device”. 

Passing from flora to fauna, we have next to notice a double axe 
of bronze discovered by the Italians at Phaistos (fig. 560)". This 
masterpiece of the founder’s art, which, according to A. Mosso®, 


1 J. Grimm Zeutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 183, cp. 1883 
iil. 1191, 1888 iv. 1346, H. Friend Flowers and Flower Lore London 1883 i. 5, 73; 
E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 121. 

2 J. Grimm Zeztonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 183. 

° Frazer Golden Bough*: Balder the Beautiful ii. 301. 

+ A. Kuhn Deze Herabkunft des Feuers und des Gottertranks® Giitersloh 1886 p. 204. 

° Plin. nat. hist. 16. 249. 

5 Supra p. 3809 ff. 

" E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 211 quotes the German impre- 
cations: ‘Zum Hammer, zum Donnerkeil und zum Duenerbessem !? Cp. F. Woeste in 
the Zeitschrift fiir deutsche Mythologie und Sittenkunde 1855 ii. 86. 

A neolithic celt, found at Loudun (Vienne) in central France, had incised upon it, 
perhaps in Roman times, a sign resembling a key (W. Deonna ‘Clef et hache’ in the 
Revue des études anciennes 1919 xxi. 219-222 argues that the celt was a thunder-stone and 
the key a lightning-sign, the whole forming ‘une amulette funéraire, ot ja clef doit ouvrir 
au mort les portes de l’au-dela’). Mr M. C. Burkitt, to whom I applied for further 
examples, tells me that there is in the Museum at Carnac ‘an engraving of a fish (poor) 
on a flat celt,’ and refers me to L. Giraux ‘ Hache polie avec gravures sur les deux faces’ 
in the Bulletin de la société préhistorique francaise Séance du 23 Nov. tgrt (cruciform 
signs, etc.). 

8 Note, however, the combination of axe, pestle, and broom in the rites of Intercidona, 
Pilumnus, and Deverra (Varr. antiguzt. rer. div. 14 frag. 61 Agahd af. Aug. de civ. Det 
6. 9), on which see E. Samter Geburt, Hochzeit und Tod Leipzig—Berlin 1911 pp. 29 ff., 
51 ff., G. Wissowa in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Znc. ix. 1608. 

9 Supra p. 516 ff., infra § 3 (c) i (p—v). 

10 Sir J. Evans The Ancient Bronze Implements, Weapons, and Ornaments, of Great 
Lritain and Ireland London 1881 p. 102 fig. 98 shows a winged celt from Trillick, Tyrone, 
on the sides of which a kind of fern-leaf pattern has been punched (cp. p. 61 fig. 26 
a flanged celt from Dams, Fifeshire), and p. 123 fig. 136 a socketed celt from Winwick, 
Lancashire, with an apparent tree-pattern. 

11 A. Mosso The Dawn of Mediterranean Civilisation London 1910 pp. 318—320 
fig. 180 (=my fig. 560). Lato palo: 


4I— 2 


644 The decoration of the double axe 


must have been cast @ cire ferdue’, bears as central decoration a 














Dew 
Ga = 
KP i 
aN pi yA 
Fig. 56 


1 Supra i. 723f., 725 n. 5. Dr L. R. Farnell writes to me (July 31, 1919): ‘ You 


The decoration of the double axe 645 


superb moth of the stylised sort, with spiral antennae, a ringed 
body, and two scalloped wings showing circular eyes. It re- 
sembles the moths on the golden disks (figs. 561, 562)? and plagues* 
from the third shaft-grave at Mykenai® and, like them, betokens the 
presence of a soul* Incidentally, its round open eyes on head and 


take the Talos-story as proof that the Minoan artist knew hollow bronze casting—but the 
myth about the nail and the vein would be consistent with solid casting: there is as yet 
no archaeologic evidence that the Minoans knew the hollow process.’ 

1 H. Schliemann AZycene London 1878 p. 165 ff. fig. 243, p. 196 ff. fig. 301 f., 
C. Schuchhardt Schliemann’s Excavations trans. E. Sellers London 1891 p. 204 ff. 
fig. 193, Perrot—Chipiez Hest. de 7 Art vi. 968 with fig. 543. My figs. 561, 562 are from 
electrotypes of three of the disks. 

2 H. Schliemann af. cit. p. 176 fig. 256, Perrot—Chipiez of. cit. vi. 968 with fig. 544. 

3 Sir A. J. Evans Zhe Palace of Minos London 1921 i. 7o05f. figs. 528, 529 shows 
that these ‘Late Minoan i’ representations were preceded by ‘Middle Minoan iii’ seal- 
types (Zakro, Knossos), in which eyed butterfly-wings formed one element in a complex 
of fantastic decoration. 

+ On the soul as a butterfly or moth see O. Jahn Archaologische Bettrage Berlin 1847 
p- 138 ff., L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1877 pp. 66—79, 94—139, O. Waser 
in Roscher Zex. Afyth. iii. 3234—3237, Frazer Golden Bough*: Taboo pp. 29 n. 1, 41, 
sirf., O. Keller Dze anttke Tierwelt Leipzig 1913 li. 436—442, supra i. 532 n. 12. 

According to O. Keller dec. c#t., the death’s-head moth (Acherontia atropos), so common 
in southern Europe, flitting about the garden-tombs of a summer’s evening, with its weird 
mask, its uncanny squeak, and its fondness for honey, was early held to be an embodiment 
of the soul and as such is represented on the gold-work from Mykenai. In the Alexandrine 
age the moth was displaced by the butterfly—a gayer and more frolicsome insect associated 
with Aphrodite and Eros, Dionysos and Priapos. Hence Wvx# came to be used of the 
butterfly, especially of the ‘cabbage white’ (Pierzs érassicae or the like), first in Aristotle 
(H. Bonitz /udex Aristotelicus Berolini 1870 p. 866 a s.v. YvxH), while conversely papzlio 
is sometimes found in the sense of ‘soul’ (Corg. inscr. Lat. ii no. 2146=F. Biicheler 
Carmina Latina epigraphica Lipsiae 1897 ii. 850f. no. 1851 (from Obulco in Hispania 
Baetica) heredibus mando etiam cinere ut m[era vina ferant,] volitet meus ebrius papilio, 
etc., cp. Corp. inscr. Lat. vi no. 26011 =F. Biicheler of. cif. ii. 489 no. 1063 (from Rome) 
papilio volita(n)s | texto religatus | aranist : illi prae|da rep(e)ns, huic | data mors subit|ast). 
Ultimately the brief life and the senselessness of the butterfly, which gets its wings singed 
in the nearest flame, led Christians to regard it as the very type of a careless and worldly 
soul. From sombre moth (all that!) to frivolous butterfly (only that !)}—an instructive 
chapter in semantics. 

A banded sardonyx at Copenhagen (L. Miiller Description des intatiles et camées 
antiques du Musée Thorwaldsen Copenhague 1847 p. 164 no. 1510, 
L. Stephani in the Comfpte-rendu St. Pét. 1877 p. go, Furtwangler 
Ant. Gemmen i pl. 24, 59 (=my fig. 563), ii. 122) shows a butterfly 
approaching an ithyphallic herm, while a peacock is seated on the 
edge of the fountain-basin: fine work of the Roman period. Other 
gems combine a large sha//és with a butterfly and a snail ¢ so on 
an agate belonging to a private collection in the Netherlands 
(L. J. F. Janssen Nederlandsch-Romeinsche Daktyliotheek Leyden 
1844 pl. 3, 58, L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1871 
p. 282: the stone is inscribed Kv@wv) and on a cornelian in the 
Hermitage (L. Stephani #4. 1877 p. 89). But the closest parallel 
is furnished by an early Attic black-figured amphora at Berlin 
(Furtwingler Vasensammd. Berlin i. 222 no. 1684: on the right, 
a bearded man dancing; on the left, a bearded man playing the double flute—sein 





Fig. 563. 


646 The decoration of the double axe 


wing would serve as a powerful prophylactic. Thus the axe on 
which the creature appears was not only animate, instinct with 
divine life, but also sacrosanct, protected against the approach of 
evil. Mosso surmises that it was ‘a weapon for ceremonial use.’ 
Small votive double axes of bronze, marked with concentric 
circles, are not uncommonly found in the Greek area. Two came 





Fig. 566. Fig. 567. 


to light in the 4/¢’s at Olympia, one to the south-west of the temple 
of Zeus (fig. 564)’, the other at its north-western angle (fig. 565)’. 
Another, from Athens, much like the first of these, is in the Museum 
at Copenhagen*. Two more turned up in the precinct of Artemis 
at Lousoi in Arkadia (figs. 566, 567)*%. Another was associated 


Phallus ist horizontal erigiert und vier r. Samentropfen fallen nieder in der Richtung auf 
einen Schmetterling..., der in der Luft fliegt und im Verhiltnis viel zu gross gemalt ist’). 
Was the soul-butterfly popularly connected with the seminal fluid (kpauwBides and xduaat 
spring from the dew that falls on cabbages (Aristophanes of Byzantion hist. an. efit. 1. 36 
p- 8, 10 ff. Lambros éx dé ris dpdcou rhs emi Ta GUANA THs KpduBns murtovons al eyowevar 
KpauBides kai kdumac), while manure breeds vermicudi under a waxing moon (Fulgent. 
myth. 2. 9))? Or should we assume a play on gaddés and gaddy (Hesych. s.v. Pa4AAN* 7 
meTouevn Wux7) ? 

1 A, Furtwangler in Olympia iv. 71 no. 524 pl. 26 (=my fig. 564) with rémains of the 
haft in its hole. 

2 Td. 2b. iv. 71 no. 527 pl. 26 (=my fig. 565), W. H. D. Rouse Greek Votive Offerings 
Cambridge rgo2 p. 388 fig. 51. 

3 Td. tb. iv. 71: Copenhagen bronzes no. 1647. 

4 W. Reichel and A. Wilhelm ‘ Das Heiligthum der Artemis zu Lusoi’ in the Jahresh. 


The decoration of the double axe 647 


with geometric ware in the sanctuary of Artemis Orthéa at Sparta 
(fig. 568). And yet another, made of bone, was acquired at Athens 
and is now in the interesting collection of Aegean antiquities lent by 
R. M. Dawkins to the Fitzwilliam Museum at Cambridge (fig. 569)”. 





Fig. 569. 


The resemblance of these little axes to butterflies is probably 
accidental. But the circles with which they are covered belong to 
a system of decoration widely prevalent in the Hallstatt period® 
and are almost certainly prophylactic in character’, J. Déchelette 
took them to be solar disks*®, and others have assumed that they 
are ‘eyes®’ In any case the axe as a sacred object was protected 
by their presence upon it. 

Diminutive axes of bronze passed during the Early Iron Age 


d. oest. arch. Inst. 1901 iv. 49 figs. 67 (=my fig. 567) and 68 (=my fig. 566): ‘Gefunden 
an der Schuttstatte ostlich des Buleuterion’ (map 2d. p. 16 fig. 6). 

1 J. P. Droop in the Ann. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1906—1907 xiii. 117 fig. 6, e (=my fig. 568). 

4 Scale . 

3 Numerous examples will be found in the plates of E. v. Sacken Das Grabfeld von 
Hallstatt tn Oberisterreich und dessen Alterthiimer Wien 1868. 

4 An analogy is afforded by the swastika found as a decorative device on axes, double 
or single. Thus A. Héron de Villefosse and E. Michon, among other acquisitions of the 
Louvre in 1899, mention: ‘10g. Petite hachette votive 4 double tranchant, ornée sur ses 
deux faces de croix gammées légérement gravées au pointillé et au trait; belle patine 
vert clair. Grece’ (/Jahrd. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1g00 xv Arch. Anz. p. 157). And 
a single-bladed axe from Piedmont is similarly marked (O. Montelius Za civilisation 
primitive en Italie depuis Vintroduction des métaux Stockholm 1895 i. 183 pl. 33, 15, 
J. Déchelette Manuel a’archéologie préhistorique Paris 1910 ii. 1. 481 f. fig. 205, 2). 

5 J. Déchelette of. czt. ii. 1. 457 ff. fig. 190. 

6 Cp. J. Déchelette of. cé¢. Paris 1913 ii. 2. 870 f. fig. 364, 1—4 and G. Eisen ‘ The 
characteristics of Eye Beads from the earliest times to the present’ in the Am. Journ. 
Arch. 1916 xx. 1—27 with 19g figs. in text and a col. pl. (see also some of the beads 
figured by the same author in his article on ‘ Button Beads—with special reference to those 
of the Etruscan and Roman periods’ 24. 1916 xx. 299—307 with two col. pls.). 


648 The decoration of the double axe 


into mere pendants (fig. 570)!, and in the passage developed further 
features of magical potency. For instance, projecting lugs became, 
under the influence of a favourite Hallstatt mozz/*, a pair of swan- 








© © ©® 
6 o 





Fig. 570. Fig. 571. 


heads or duck-heads—witness one of the twenty-three little votive 
axes from Dodona (fig. 571)? or a more elaborate specimen at 


1 M. Hoernes Urgeschichte der bildenden Kunst in Europa Wien 1898 p. 440 ff. pl. 10, 
19 (=my fig. 570) from Austria. 


I add, for comparison’s sake, figs. 573, 574, which represent two axe-pendants of 
bronze, from Benin, now in the collection of Mr C. H. C. Visick. Scale +. 








Fig. 573. 





2 M. Hoernes of. czt.! pp. 488—498 (‘ Vogelfiguren’), 519 f., 7d. of. cét.2 Wien 1915 
p- 524f., J. Déchelette of. czt. ii. 1. 419 —426 (‘La barque solaire et les cygnes hyper- 


boréens en Scandinavie’), 426—444 (‘Les cygnes et les symboles solaires en Italie, dans 
l'Europe centrale et la Gaule’). 


3 C. Carapanos Dodone et ses ruines Paris 1878 pp. 100, 235 f. pl. 54, 6 (=my fig. 571). 


The decoration of the double axe 649 


Vienna (fig. 572). But projecting lugs were also suggestive of 


ROR TR 


Fig. 575. 
human arms, and it needed no great effort of imagination to trans- 
form the axe into a guvasz-anthropomor- 
phic pendant (fig. 575)’, complicated at 
will by the addition of rings, chains, etc. 
I figure an advanced type from a grave at 
Tribano near Padua (fig. 576)* and two 
other examples from Italy that show an 
accumulation of apotropaeic elements 
(fig. 577)* 

The prophylactic value of such pen- 
dants was doubtless high. It became 
higher still, when the sacred axe without 
losing all semblance of its essential shape 
was modified into a gong; for, as I 
have elsewhere insisted®, great is the 
virtue of beaten bronze. Pythagoras, for 
instance, declared that the sound of 
bronze being beaten was the voice of 
some deity shut up within it®*, Tombs 
of the Early Iron Age in the vicinity of 
Bologna have yielded a number of such gongs together with their 










© © ©©@ 





Fig. 576. 


1M. Hoernes Urgeschichte der bildenden Kunst in Europa Wien 1898 pp. 443, 472 
pl. 10, 9 (=my fig. 572) ‘ Antikensammlung des Allerh. Kaiserhauses zu Wien, Saal x11, 
Schrank v1, Nr. 315,’ 2d. op. cit.” p. 519 fig. 5, J. Déchelette of. céz. ii. 1. 481 f. fig. 205, 3. 

2 M. Hoernes of. cit.. p. 441f. fig. 136 (=my fig. 575): @ from Obervintl in the 
Puster Thal, Tyrol; 4 from the neighbourhood of Bologna; c, d, e from Prozor near 
Otoéac, Croatia. See also L. Siret Questions de chronologie et d’ethnographie ibériques 
Paris 1913 i. 365 ff. fig. 136 ff. 

3 M. Hoernes of. cét.1 p. 442 pl. 10, 26 (=my fig. 576). 

* H. B. Walters in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 53 no. 344 (from Italy) and p. 57 
no. 383 (from Ruvo) describes the first as a ‘Human Figure, rudely represented by a 
plate of bronze’ and the second as a ‘ Plate in the form of an axe-head’: he adds that 
the thing suspended on either side of the latter is ‘a man or ape crouching and holding 
up some object between chin and knees.’ My fig. 577 is from a photograph taken by 
Mr W. H. Hayles. 

> Journ. Hell. Stud. 1902 xxii. 5—28, supra i. 592 n. 

§ Aristot. /rag. 191 Rose af. Porph. v. Pyth. 41, cp. Ail. var. hist. 4. 17. 


650 ‘The decoration of the double axe 


hammers?: the specimen illustrated was found at Villanova and is 














| UM2S Saws] | 
1 SATU Nl 
1 RCS Nal e|| 
Ny SV ry NY UN 


















e 
BEE: 


2 
S 











Zee 


Se 


aZE 
5S E. 


1 G. Gozzadini ‘ Les fouilles archéologiques et les stéles funéraires du Bolonais’ in the 
Rev. Arch. 1886 ii. 130. See further the bibliography 7. p. 129 n. 2. 


The decoration of the double axe 651 


in the collection formed by Count Gozzadini (fig. 578). The gong 
as a rule is solid-cast, though one example is made of two thin 





Fig. 579. 
plates of bronze soldered at the edges so as to enclose an empty 


| Matériaux pour V histoire primitive et naturelle de l'homme 1874 ix. 289 figs. 105 
and 106, G. Cotteau Le Préhistorigue en Europe Paris 1889 p. 79, L. Pigorini in the 
Bullettino di paletnologia italiana 1890 xvi. 62 fig. (=my fig. 578: scale 4). 


652 The duplication of the double axe 


space two millimeters in depth! and might be regarded as a cross 
between a gong and a bell. The hammer is regularly a hollow-cast 
cylinder with spheroidal ends. 

L. Pigorini? has pointed out that contemporary copies of these 
axe-gongs were made in terra cotta, and has published examples 
from the De Lucca estate at Bologna (fig. 579, c), from Monteveglio 
in the same neighbourhood (fig. 579, 4), and from Solino near Imola 
(fig. 579, 2). The Solino gong is decorated on both sides with circles, 
formerly filled with bronze studs, some of which are still to be seen 
fixed in the clay’. 


(€) The duplication of the double axe. 


The ‘ Minoan’ axe in religious surroundings exhibits a marked 
tendency towards duplication. To begin with, the sacred weapon 





is normally not the single but the double axe. Then, the craftsman 
or the artist has a way of making either wing of the implement 
twofold—witness the small steatite axe from Knossos (fig. 405)‘, 
or the gold ducranza (fig. 409 c,d) and the gold ring from Mykenai 
(fig. 18)°, the clay sealing from Kato Zakro (fig. 524)’, the painted 
sarcophagus from Hagia Triada (pl. xxvii, a)’. Or he may duplicate 
the whole axe, so that we see as objects of veneration a pair of 
double axes with twofold blades: the same sarcophagus provides 
an illustration (pl. xxvii, 4)* Or again he may duplicate this pair of 
double axes wlth twofold blades, as on a clay sealing found near 
the ‘Room of the Archives’ in the Cnossian palace (fig. 580)”. 


1 G. Gozzadini Zutorno ad alcuni sepolcri scavati nell’ arsenale militare di Bologna 
Bologna 1875 p. 6f. with fig. 15, L. Pigorini Joc. cit. p. 65 f. 

 L. Pigorini ‘Di un oggetto di bronzo italico della prima eta del ferro e di alcune 
sue imitazioni in terra cotta’ in the Bullettino di paletnologia italiana pp. 62—76 pl. 3, 1 
(=my fig. 579, a), 2 (=my fig. 579, 4), 3 (=my fig. 579, ¢). Scale §. 

3 W. Helbig in the Bul. d. Just. 1882 p. 83 n. 2, L. Pigorini /oc. cit. p. 68 f. 

4 Supra p. 535. 5 Supra p. 537. 6 Supra p. 514 ff. 

7 Supra p. 623. 8 Supra p. 518. 9 Supra p. 520. 

10 Sir A. J. Evans in the Aun. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1901—1902 viii. 103 fig. 61 (=my 
fig. 580: scale, $). 


The duplication of the double axe 653 


What are we to think of this enchant for binary forms? L. A. 
Milani! in a somewhat tangled passage of theogonic speculation 
declares that the duplicated blades of the double axe on the gold 
ring symbolise two pairs of gods, on the one hand the celestial 
Kronos and Zeus, on the other the solar Zeus and Apollon, either 
pair being conceived as Father and Son—an explanation which 
might have claimed support from the Ophites and their supra- 
mundane diagram (fig. 511). Sir Arthur Evans’, without indulging 
in such subtleties, risks a similar conjecture @ propos of the same 
‘ring: ‘The curious reduplication of the axe blades suggests indeed 





that it stands as an image of the conjunction of the divine pair—a 
solar and a lunar divinity.’ 

Personally I should contend that the double axe hafted in a 
leafy stem, as at Hagia Triada (pl. xxvii, 6)* and Knossos (fig. 396)°, 
betokened the union of the Sky-father with the Earth-mother, and 
that an ordinary double axe on its wooden handle came to be 
received as a symbol of like significance’. Nor would I deny that 
a pair of double axes, held up by a priestess (fig. 528)’ or erected 
in a shrine (fig. 404)8, were reverenced as the signs of god and 
goddess respectively. But I demur to regarding the duplicated 


1 Milani Stud. e mat. di arch. e num. 1899—1901 i. 197 f., Gruppe AZpyth. Lit. 1908 
p- 287. 

2 Supra p. 610f. 

3 Sir A, J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 108. 

4 Supra p. 520f, > Supra p. 527 f. 6 Infra § 3 (c) i (7). 

7 Supra p. 624. 8 Supra p. 535 ff. 


654 The double axes of Tenedos 


blades as any evidence of the divine duality. In art, as in language’, 
reduplication implies emphasis. The feeling that transformed the 
lightning-fork? into a thunderbolt, and thereby doubled the ability 
of the thunder-god to strike, augmented the cutting edges of the 
lébrys with the same result. Accentuated further, it produced not 
merely double but multiple blades, as in the case of the mould 
from Palatkastro (fig. 525)*%. Finally, double axes with twofold 
blades and flower-like sepals, such as occur sporadically among the 
bucrania of Mykenai (fig. 400, @)*, are found at Pseira, a small island 
in the Gulf of Mirabello, repeated as a pattern to cover the surface 
of ceramic vessels (figs. 581, 582)°. The vessels and their contents 
were thus protected by the whole armoury of heaven. 


(o) The double axes of Tenedos. 


The ‘Minoan’ conception of a bisexual axe is, as Sir Arthur 
Evans® has pointed out, confirmed by the coin-types of Tenedos. 
The obverse of these coins from the sixth century B.C. onwards— 
whether their style be archaic (fig. 583)’, late archaic (fig. 584), 
fine (figs. 585, 586)°, or decadent (figs. 587, 588)—shows a Janiform 
head consisting of a male and a female profile combined : the reverse 
has a double axe with a short handle. Sir Arthur Evans makes the 


1K, Brugmann Grundriss der vergleichenden Grammatik der indogermanischen 
Sprachen® Strassburg 1906 ii. 1. 46 f., 56 ff., 22. Kurze vergleichende Grammatik der 
indogermantschen Sprachen Strassburg 1904 pp. 286 f., 300 f., K. Brugmann—A. Thumb 
Griechische Grammatik* Miinchen 1913 pp. 206f., 302 ff., R. Kiihner—F. Holzweissig 
Ausfiihrliche Grammatik der lateinischen Sprache® Hannover 1912 i. 729 ff., 947- 

2 Infra § 3 (c) iv (8). 

3 Supra p. 623 f. 4 Supra p. 537: 

5 R. B. Seager Zxcavations on the Island of Pseira (University of Pennsylvania. The 
University Museum: Anthropological Publications iii. 1) Philadelphia rgro p. 31 fig. 12, 
G. Karo—G. Maraghiannis Aztiguités Crétozses Deuxieme série Candie 1911 p. ix pl. 21, 4 
(=my fig. 582) and 6 (=my fig. 581), a small basket-shaped vase and the lid of a large 
vase, both of ‘ Late Minoan i.’ 

6 Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1901 xxi. 108. 

7 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Troas, etc. p. gt pl. 17, 2 (=my fig. 583), Babelon Monn. 
gr. rom. ii. 1. 367f. pl. 16, 2, Anson Mum. Gr. ii. 6 no. 50 pl. 1, Head Cons of the 
Ancients p. § pl. 2, 19, id. Hist. num. p. 550. 

8 I figure an unpublished specimen from my collection. 

9 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Troas, etc. p. 92f. pl. 17, 6—10, Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 303 f. 
pl. 49, 16, Babelon AZonn. gr. vom. ii. 2. 1305 ff. pl. 166, 22—33, Anson Mum. Gr. ii. 
6 f. nos. 48, 53—58, 61f. pl. 1, Head Coins of the Ancients p. 38 pl. 18, 20f., za. Hist. 
num.” p. 550. Figs. 585 and 586 are from specimens in my collection. 

0 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Troas, etc. p. 94 pl. 17, 12, 13 (=my fig. 588), 14, Hunter 
Cat. Coins ii. 304 no. 4, Anson Mum. Gr. ii. 7 nos. 64—66 pl. 2, Head Cozns of the 
Ancients p. 91 pl. 49, 13, 7a. Hist. num.” p. 551 fig. My fig. 587 is from Briider Egger 
Auktions-Katalog xlvi Griechische Miinzen (Sammlung des Herrn Theodor Prowe, 
Moskau, u.a.) Wien 1914 p. 34 no. 699 pl. 12—-an early example of the decadent class 
with some exceptional features (pattern on stephdne, handle of axe). 


The double axes of Tenedos 655 


attractive suggestion that the former is the ‘anthropomorphic equi- 
valent’ of the latter. 








Fig. 587. 


Fig. 588. 


That the double axe at Tenedos was indeed a sacred symbol, 
or even the recipient of an actual cult!, appears from the repre- 
sentation of it on certain remarkable specimens published by 


1 My friend and colleague Sir W. Ridgeway in his book Zhe Origin of Metallic 
Currency and Weight Standards Cambridge 1892 pp. 49 f., 318 ff. argues that the axe on 
coins of Tenedos was ‘ not religious,’ but represented rather ‘the local unit of an earlier 
epoch.’ He shows from //. 23. 850 f., 882 f. (cp. schol. 7/7, 23. 851, Eustath. zz Od. 
p. 1878, 57 ff., Hesych. s.vv. quuméXexxov, méXexus, and 7re[Néxefas] in a Cypriote inscrip- 
tion from Idalion printed by W. Deecke in Collitz—Bechtel Gy. Dial.-Juschr. i. 27 ff. 


656 The double axes of Tenedos 


F. Imhoof-Blumer. One of these, a dédrachmon extant in the col- 
lections of Berlin (fig. 589)! and Glasgow (fig. 590)”, exhibits the 
double axe standing on the uppermost of three steps between a 
pair of pillars or pillar-like supports. We are reminded at once of 
the way in which ‘Minoan’ art depicted a double axe standing on 





Fig. 589. Fig. 590. 
a stepped base between two pillars*; and we may fairly infer that 
in Tenedos, as in Crete, the double axe was itself an object of 
worship. The other coin, a ¢tetrédrachmon of which specimens exist 
at Berlin (fig. 591)* and in the collections formed by Canon W. 


no. 60, 15 and 26=O. Hoffmann Deze griechischen Dialekte Gottingen 1891 i. 68 ff. 
no. 135, 15 and 26=F. Solmsen /nscriptiones Graecae ad inlustrandas dialectos selectae* 
Lipsiae 1905 p. 5 ff. no. 3, 15 and 26) that double axes formed part of the earliest Greek 
system of currency, and holds that the weAéxets dedicated at Delphoi by Periklytos the 
Tenedian (Paus. ro. 14. 1) were probably offered to the god as being the ‘especial product 
of Tenedos.’ In The Early Age of Greece Cambridge 1901 i. 444 Sir W. Ridgeway makes 
the further suggestion that the Tenedian axes at Delphoi ‘ were not real, but only minia- 
ture axes like those from the Dictaean cave.’ 

Sir W. Ridgeway’s views on the whole subject have been criticised with admirable 
fairness and acumen by G. Macdonald Cozz Types Glasgow 1905 p. 23 ff. For my part, 
I am quite prepared to believe that double axes were in early times and in some places 
(e.g. Kypros) a recognised unit of exchange. But that, as Sir William himself allows 
(The Origin of Metallic Currency and Weight Standards p. 319 n. 2), is by no means 
inconsistent with the belief that they were sacred objects also. On the one hand, J. N. 
Svoronos in the Journ. Intern. d’ Arch. Num. 1906 ix. 161—181 pl. 2 ff. has published a 
series of bronze castings in the shape of double axes(?) from Salamis in Kypros, Serra 
Zlixi in Sardinia, Phaistos in Crete, Mykenai in Argolis, and Kyme in Euboia. These 
are marked with various characters (in one case with a double axe), and conform to 
definite weight standards. Presumably, therefore, they are a medium of exchange. But it 
is far from certain that these castings are double axes: Sir A. J. Evans in Corolla Numis- 
matica Oxford 1906 p. 355 ff. treats them as mere ingots. More to the point are the 
copper double axes found in northern Europe (sezpra p. 617), if not also some of the 
bronze axes found in Gaul (J. Déchelette Manuel d’archéologie préhistorique Paris 1910 
ii. 1. 254). On the other hand, the evidence for the cult of the double axe in Crete and 
Asia Minor is overwhelming. The implement had at once a commercial and a religious 
significance. t 

1 F. Imhoof-Blumer in the Zez¢schr. f. Num. 1897 xx. 274f. pl. 10, 9, Babelon Jon. 
gr. rom. ii. 1. 369 f. pl. 16, 6 (=my fig. 589), Head Hist. num.” p. 550. 

2 Hunter Cat. Coins ii. 304 pl. 49, 15 (=my fig. 590), G. Macdonald Coznx Types 
Glasgow 1905 p. 25 pl. 1, 11, Anson Vum. Gr. ii. 6 no. 49 pl. 1, Head Hist. num.* 
P- 550- 

3 Supra p. 524 f. 

4 F, Imhoof-Blumer in the Zedtschr. f. Num. 1897 xx. 274 pl. 10, 8 (reverse only), 
Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 1. 367f. pl. 16, 4 (=my fig. 591), Head Hist. num.? p. 550. 


The double axes of Tenedos 657 


Greenwell (fig. 592)! and Sir H. Weber (fig. 593)?, portrays an 
amphora placed beside the double axe, the left handle of the former 
being attached by means of a fillet to the shaft of the latter®. Again, 
we are reminded of the way in which on the sarcophagus from Hagia 
Triada a large two-handled jar placed between a pair of tree- 
axes was being filled with a red liquid by the officiating priestess 






cin 





Fig. 593. Fig. 594. 


(pl. xxvii, 6). Perhaps both in Crete and in Tenedos the bisexual 
axe, symbolising the union of the god with the goddess, was believed 
to bring fertility to field and vineyard’. 

Attention may here be called to a drachmé of fine style, re- 
presented in the cabinets of London (fig. 594)® and Paris’, which 
gives the goddess of the obverse a necklace and connects the axe 


1 W. Greenwell in the Mm. Chron. Third Series 1893 xiii. 89 pl. 7, 15 (=my 
fig. 592), Anson MVum. Gr. ii. 7 no. 60 pl. 1, Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 1. 367 f. no. 624. 

* W. Greenwell in the Wum. Chron. Third Series 1893 xiii. 89, F. Imhoof-Blumer in 
the Zetéschr. f. Num. 1897 xx. 274, Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 1. 367 f. no. 624. 
Fig. 593 is from a cast of the Weber specimen, for which I am indebted to the kind 
offices of Mr C. T. Seltman. 

* Mr G. F. Hill suggested to me that the alleged ‘fillet’ might be due to a mere 
crack in the die. But Mr C. T. Seltman justly observes that the occurrence of three 
specimens all showing a crack in precisely the same condition is most improbable. 

+ Supra p. 520. 

° Cp. the coin of Mostene showing a double axe between a bunch of grapes and two 
ears of corn (szfra p. 564 n. 8). 

° Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Troas, etc. p. 92 pl. 17, 8. I first noticed the details of the 
reverse, when examining the original. Fig. 594 is from a cast kindly supplied by 
Mr G. F. Hill, who is inclined to regard the ‘fillet’ as a line of fortuitous dots. 

7 Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 2. 1307 f. pl. 166, 23. This coin appears to be from the 
same dies as the specimen in the British Museum. 


€. a: 42 


658 The double axes of Tenedos 


of the reverse with a couple of adjuncts—on one side a handsome 
bunch of grapes, on the other a little Nike engaged in wreathing the 
haft. It will be observed that the grape-bunch actually touches the 
left blade, while the Nike is linked to the right blade by a short but 
clearly-marked fillet. I should infer that, at the time when this 
coin was struck, grapes and a small Nike were kept dangling from 
the wings of the sacred weapon. 

Of the grape-bunch there is more to be said. From about the 
year 420 B.C. onwards it is constantly associated with the Tenedian 





Fig. 595. 





axe. And this, not only on the silver coins of Tenedos (e.g. figs. 
585 ff, 593). Two leaden weights (emzmnaia) of the same island, 
now at Paris (fig. 595)? and Berlin (fig. 596)*, show the grapes as 
well as the axe. And a bronze tablet of Hellenistic date (¢c. 300— 
250 B.C.) from Olympia, recording a decree in honour of the Tene- 
dian wrestler Damokrates, is embellished with two double axes 
and a bunch of grapes (fig. 597). The grapes imply a Dionysiac 
divinity of some sort, and go far towards establishing the contention 
of L. Stephani® and F. Lenormant® that the axe refers to a Tene- 


1 For the fillet thus used as a means of magic connexion see swfra p. 408 n. oO. 

2 Babelon—Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. Nat. p. 678 no. 2241 fig. (=my fig. 595). 

3K. M. R. Schillbach Bestrvag zur griechischen Gewichtskunde (Winckelmannsfest- 
Progr. Berlin \xxiii) Berlin 1877 p. 13 no. 6 pl. 2, E. Michon in Daremberg—Saglio 
Dict. Ant. iv. 554 fig. 5734 (=my fig. 596). 

4 A. Kirchhoff in the Avch. Zezt. 1876 xxxiil. 183 ff. no. 4, F. Blass in Collitz— 
Bechtel Gr. Déial.-Inschr. i. 332 f. no 1172, W. Dittenberger—K. Purgold in Olympia 
v. 75 ff. no. 39 fig., E. Curtius—F. Adler—G. Hirschfeld Die Ausgrabungen zu Olympia 
Berlin 1876 i pl. 31, a. My fig. 597 was drawn from the cast in the Museum of Classical 
Archaeology at Cambridge. The original bronze was found to the south of the south-west 
angle of the temple of Zeus in the dts. 

5 L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1863 p. 128, cp. 7d. p. 125. 

6 F. Lenormant in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 624. 


The double axes of Tenedos 659 


dian cult of Dionysos. Lenormant remarked that Simonides of 
Keos in one of his riddles speaks of an axe as the ‘ox-slaughtering 






































—) VYTIOEAAANOAIKANTANTIEP! 


| FAIS XYAON OVI £U 

| OTT. PETIT EIA AMOKPATHPATH To POP 

| TENEAIOPTIETIOAITE Y KP MAPAME 

| AVTOPTE KAIOTIATAPKAIES TEPA NOME 
| NOPTON TE TANOAYMMIANALA NA KAI 





Fig. 597: 
servitor of king Dionysos!, and—what is more convincing—that 


1 Simonid. frag. 172 Bergk*, 163 Hiller—Crusius, af. Athen. 456 C—E ypipadn 0’ 
éort kal Deuwvldy radra weronpéva, ws Pyor Xauauéwy 6 Hpakdewrns ev 7H wept Dipwvidov 
(frag. 13 Kopke in E. Koepke De Chamaeleontis Heracleotae vita librorumque reliquzis 
Berlin 1856 p. 21 ff.)* ‘ wEovduou Te marnp éepipou Kal cxérdos lx Ais | wAnolov jpeloavTo 
Kapjara: maida dé Nukros | detdmevor Breddporor, Acwydao.o dvaxtos | Boupdvoy ovdK €Oédovor 
TLOnvetobar Oepdtrovra.’ (A) pact & of pwéev eri twos Tay apxalwy avabnudtwy év XaNkide 
Toor’ émvyeypdpbat, memorjobar 5 ev ait@ Tpdyov kal deddiva, mepl ay eivac Tov Abyov 
todrov. (B) oi 6é eis érurévioy Wadrrpiov Seddiva Kal Tpayov eipyacuévoy elpjaOar: Kai eivac 
Tov Boupévoy kal rov Acovicou bepdrovra Tov diOdpauBov. (C) ol 6€ pacw év ‘LouNlde Tov 7H 
Atovicw Ovépmevov Bovv b1é Tivos Tay veavioxwy taiecPat mwedéxer. wAnoloy dé THs EopTis 
ovions éls xadketov dojvac Tov méNeKUY* TOV OvY Dimwldny ere véov dvTa Badicar mpds Tov 
xarKéa Kouovmevov avrdv. idivra dé kal Tov TexviTnY Kolmwmevov Kal Tov doKov Kal TOY 
Kapklvov eikh Keluevov Kal érad\ynws exovra Ta Eumpoober, otrws EOdvTa elmeiv mpos Tovs 
cuv7nbers TO Tpoerpnuévov TpdBAnua. Tov wEev yap TOU épidov Tmarépa Tov aoKoy elvat, oXETALOV 
dé ix@bv tov kapkivoy, Nuxros 6€ maida tov “Lrvov, Bovpdvoy 6é Kal Avovicov OepamovtTa Tov 
TENEKUV. 

An elaborate, but not very enlightening, attempt to make sense of all this will be 
found in W. Schultz Rdtsel aus dem hellenischen Kulturkreise Leipzig 1909 i. 16, 31, 36 
no. 17, Leipzig 1912 ii. 111 —117 (=Mythologische Bibliothek iii. 1 and v. 1), who dis- 
tinguishes A and & as partial solutions from C as relatively complete. In 4 Schultz 
emends év xa\kel<w Tpiro> 6, holding that the bronze tripod of A is tantamount to the 


42—2 


660 The double axes of Tenedos 


Alexander tyrant of Pherai was specially devoted to the cult of 
Dionysos Pélekys, Dionysos the ‘Double Axe,’ at Pagasai on the 
Thessalian coast!. Silver coins struck by this Alexander between 
369 and 357 B.C. have as their reverse type a warrior sitting a horse, 
whose flank is marked with the double axe, another double axe 
being beneath it (fig. 598)*, or a lion’s head, sometimes with a 
double axe below it’, or a double axe alone (fig. 599)* Hence 
B. V. Head* suggested that the Janiform type of the Tenedian coins 


strung lyre of B (cp. Artemon of Kassandreia frag. 12 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 342 f. Miiller) 
ap. Athen. 637 B—F, where Pythagoras of Zakynthos invents a musical tripod composed 
of three lyres). In both 4 and &, according to Schultz, the ‘goat’ and ‘ dolphin’ are 
wrongly conceived as ov the ringing vessel, not zz it; and ‘dolphin’ is a blunder for 
‘crab.’ In A he supposes that ‘ Dithyramb’ means ‘ Dionysos.’ In C we are to assume 
that Dionysos was awakened out of his annual sleep by an axe used to strike a caldron 
containing bellows (acxés) and tongs (kapxivos) : on account of its contents the caldron 
was dubbed a smithy (xaAxefov), on account of its rumbling echoes a bull (implied in 
Bovdévos). The whole riddle is translated as if there were a comma afer, not before, 
Awviicovo dvaxros: ‘Der Vater des vermischt weidenden Bockleins (Ba/g) und der 
schreckliche Fisch (Zazge) | stiessen die Haupter an einander: der das Kind der Nacht 
(Schlaf) | von den Lidern des Herrn Dionysos nehmen will—| dass dieser Rinder tétende 
Diener (4.xt) gelabt werde—das wollen sie nicht.’ 

I fear that Simonides’ riddle remains unread. See, however, izfra p. 663 ff. for the 
combination of crab with double axe. 

1 Theopomp. frag. 339 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 332, iv. 643 Miiller) af. schol. 7/7. 24. 428 
kal Qedroumrés pnow ’AdéEavdpov Pepaiov Ardvucov rov év Iayacats, ds éxadetro Ilé\exos 
(Zeg. TléXexus with Preller—Plew Gr. Myth. i. 566 n. 2 rather than zedexas or medeKivos 
with L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1863 p. 116 n. 4), evoeBeiv diaddpws. 
katatovTwhévros d¢’ ANeEdvdpov, Acévucos bvap émistds Tt TOY adiéwy ExéNeveev avahaBeiv 
Tov popuov Tay doTav. 06 dé dmeNOav és Kpdvyvwyva rots oixelows awédwxev, oi 6é COawav. So 
cod. V. Cod. T. reads ds éxaetro Iledd-ycos—a needless emendation (accepted by E. Maass 
‘AIONTZTOD MEAATIO“’ in Hermes 1888 xxiii. 7o—80). Parallels abound: e.g. Kpévos, 
the ‘Chopper’ (? see supra p. 549); Hamar or Hamer as a title of the Germanic thunder- 
god (J. Grimm 7éutonte Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 11 n. 1, 181 f., 
1883 ii. 883, 885 n. 2, 1888 iv. 1344 f., 1605, E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie 
Berlin 1891 pp. 204, 208 ff. and Index s.v. ‘ Hammer’); Charles A/arée/, whose gigantic 
hammer is still to be seen cut in the hillside at Tours (H. Bayley Archaic England 
London 191g p. 355). My brother-in-law the Rev. H. E. Maddox notes that the sixth 
incarnation of Vishnu was Parasu-rdma, the ‘Axe-Rama,’ a Brahman who cleared the 
earth of the Kshatriya race twenty-one times till he was at last defeated by Vishnu’s 
seventh incarnation Rama-candra, the ‘ Moon-like-Rama.’ ParaSu-rama forced the ocean 
to retire for the formation of the Malabar coast, caused vast fissures in the Western Ghats 
and other mountains by blows of his axe, etc. He is still worshipped in Malabar and the 
Konkan (Sir M. Monier-Williams Brahmanism and Hindiism*® London 1887 pp. 110, 
2470 f.). 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 47 pl. to, 11 (=my fig. 598) didrachm, Head 
Hist. num.” p. 308 fig. 176. : 

> Head Hist. num. p. 261 drachm: ‘Lion’s head; beneath, sometimes, bipennis.’ 
Id. ib.2 p. 308 omits all reference to the ‘bipennis.’ Are we to infer that this weapon 
figures only on the didrachm and the obol ? 

4 Head Hist. num. p. 308 obol. Fig. 599=the Pozz? Sale Catalogue Geneve 1920 
p. 70 no. 1257 pl. 41. 

5 Head Hist. num.) p. 476, 26.2 p. 551. 


The double axes of Tenedos 661 


represents Dionysos démorphos', the ‘two-formed, or perhaps rather 
Dionysos and Ariadne. Other considerations too might be urged 
in favour of Dionysos. An Attic black-figured amphora depicts that 
divinity as a bearded figure seated on a bull with a drinking-horn 





Fig. 598. Fig. 599- 


WTTTTATTTETUU ATTA I 














Tavabona 


in his right hand and a double axe on his shoulder: two Silenoi 
complete the scene (fig. 600). An Attic red-figured kyla shows 
the same god again as a bearded figure with £éntharos and double 
axe*®. A silver coin of the Odrysian king Metokos, struck ¢. 400 B.C., 


mm 


TK sy 44 





Fig. 600. 


1 Orph. 2. Dion. 30. 3 dyprov, dppytov, kpiquov, Sixépwra, diwoppor, | x.7.). 

2 Notizia dei vast dipinti rinvenuti a Cuma nel MDCCCLV1 fossedutt da sua Altezza 
Reale il Conte di Siracusa Napoli 1856 p. ix f. pl. 2 (=my fig. 600). 

3 Supra i. 216 fig. 159. 


662 The double axes of Tenedos 


has on the obverse a bearded head of Dionysos (?), on the reverse a 
double axe surrounded by a grape-vine 
(fig. 601). Finally, we have already seen 
reason to think that in Tenedos itself 
Dionysos Axthroporrhaistes, ‘Smiter of 
Men, was conceived as embodied in 





Fig. 601. 


an axe’. 

There are, then, strong grounds for supposing that the Tene- 
dian coin-types relate to the cult of Dionysos. The main objection 
to that view is thus stated by W. Wroth’: ‘if Dionysos were 
intended, the male head would almost certainly be wreathed with 
ivy. On those coins, however, on which the head is wreathed, the 
wreath is of laurel and not of ivy. Perhaps, therefore, the heads 
are those of Zeus and Hera.’ Wroth’s conclusion is quoted with 
approval by B. V. Head‘, and would doubtless have commended 
itself to C. Lenormant’, who equated 7éxes the eponym of Tenedos 
with the Etruscan Z7zzza* and the Cretan 7déz7’. Such an equation 
is, of course, philologically impossible. But the fact remains that 
the head with its bay-wreath resembles Zeus rather than Dionysos, 
and any hypothesis connecting it with the latter must account for 
its likeness to the former. 

On the whole, I should summarise the situation as follows. 
Tenedos bears a name which is pre-Greek. A. Fick*, comparing it 
with a second 7ézedos on the borders of Lykia and Pamphylia, 
with Lébedos in Ionia (Lydia), and with Sébeda in Lykia, treats the 
name as Hittite, and points out that Zées or Ténnes (for * Téndes) 
was derived from 7Z7énedos, not vice versa®. Now Ténnes occurs 
again as the name of a king of Sidon in the revolt of Phoinike 
from Artaxerxes iii Ochos®. And Tenedos itself, as Pliny” informs 
us, was once called Phoznzke. It would seem, then, that in the 
pre-history of the island we have to reckon with the Phoinikes, 
whose relations to the ‘Minoan’ culture were of the closest”. 


1 Ant. Miinz. Berlin Taurische Chersonesus, etc. i. 329 no. 8 fig. (=my fig. 601) 
MHTOKO. The same king is known to literature as M7jdoxos or Mnddxns (W. Pape— 
G. E. Benseler Worterbuch der griechischen Eigennamen® Braunschweig 1875 ii. 912). 

2 Supra i. 659. 

3 W. Wroth in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Troas, etc. p. xlviii. 

4 Head Hist. num.? p. 551. 

5 C. Lenormant Mouvelle galerie mythologigue (Trésor de numismatique et de glyp- 
tique) Paris 1850 pp. 7 f., 17, 19, Babelon Monn. gr. rom. il. 1. 122 and 365 f. 

5 Supra i. 53, 622 f. 7 Supra i. 149 n. 1, 655 n. 2. 

8 A. Fick Vorgriechische Ortsnamen Gottingen 1905 p. 64. 

3 Steph. Byz. s.v. Tévedos*...oiovel Térvov éd0s. Cp. znzfra pp. 669, 673 n. 5. 

 Diod. 16. 42 ff. Ul Plin. zat. hist. 5. 140. 

12 Sir A. J. Evans in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1912 xxxil. 278: ‘The people whom we 


The double axes of Tenedos 663 


‘Minoan’ objects have in fact come to light in Tenedos (fig. 602) 
and suggest that here in early days was a 
‘Minoan’ settlement. The settlers called 
themselves Asterioi?and doubtless discovered 
with joy that at Asterion in their island were 
river-crabs marked with a double axe*. The 
curious combination of crab and double axe 
recalls the joint cult of Zeus Osogéa and Zeus 
Labrayndos at Mylasa*. The circumstances, 
however, though similar, are not identical. 
In Karia a local deity, whose attribute was 
the crab, having been Hellenised into a Zeus of the sea, was fused 
with a Zeus of the sky, inheritor of the ancient ‘ Minoan’ double 
axe, the resultant god being known to the Greeks as Zenoposeidon. 
In Tenedos too we are concerned with the legacy of the double 
axe. But here, in the Thraco-Phrygian area, the principal sky-god 
was Dios, who was worshipped in twofold form as Father and Son 
—Zeus and Dionysos, said the Greeks®. It matters little, therefore, 
whether we assert that among the Tenedians the ‘Minoan’ axe 
passed into the hands of a Dionysiac Zeus or into those of a Zeus- 
like Dionysos. Not improbably the former developed into the 
latter, stress being laid first on the older and afterwards on the 
younger aspect of the god. But in either case we mean him who 
was at once the husband and the son of Semele. His effigy and 
hers are combined as the Thraco-Phrygian equivalent of the 
‘Minoan’ Kronos and Rhea. What then of the crabs? Presumably 
in Tenedos, as in Karia, they belonged to some local deity identified 
with Zeus. 

Confirmation is not far to seek. Thirty miles or so to the west 
of Tenedos lies Lemnos,a great centre of Cabiric cult® Cor- 





Fig. 602. 


discern in the new dawn [sc. of classical Greece] are not the pale-skinned northerners— 
the ‘‘ yellow-haired Achaeans” and the rest—but essentially the dark-haired, brown- 
complexioned race, the ®oivixes or ‘‘ Red Men” of later tradition, of whom we find the 
earlier portraiture in the Minoan and Mycenaean wall paintings.’ 

1 T figure a coarsely-cut lenticular seal-stone, which I acquired in Athens in rgotr. 
Material: haematite. Scale: +. Alleged provenance: Tenedos. 

2 Supra i. 543 n. 6. 

3 Infra p. 669 n. 5. Mr L. A. Borradaile, Lecturer in Zoology to the University of 
Cambridge, informs me that the crabs in question probably belonged to the species 
Telphusa fluviatilis, the marking of whose back might be held to resemble the head of 
a double axe. He kindly refers me to Miss M. J. Rathbun ‘ Les crabes d’eau douce’ in 
the Nouvelles Archives du Muséum a’ Histoire Naturelle Quatrieme Série Paris 1904 
pp- 254—258 pl. 9, 1 and 5. 

4 Supra p. 576 ff. > Supra p. 277 ff. 

6 L. Bloch in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 2523 ff., O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. 
x. 1420 ff. 


664 The double axes of Tenedos 


responding with the divine triad Zeus, Semele, and Dionysos 
were the Kabeiroi!, whose names A-xidkersos, Axtokérsa, and 
Axteros proclaim their connexion with the sacred axe?. More- 
over, Hesychios* expressly identifies the Kabeiroi with crabs, 


1 For the Kabeiroi equated with Zeus and Dionysos see supra i. 112 n. 6, ii. 313 f. 
They are apparently associated with a Dionysiac Zeus on a bronze plaque from Rome 
(fig. 603=Arch. Zett. 1854 pl. 65, 3, supra p. 283), which combines Mithraic with 
Sabazian and other elements in a manner suggestive of Thrace. Under an arch formed 
of two trees, two snakes, and a lion’s head (the Mithraic Ahriman: Append. G fiz.) we 

















see a veiled female suppliant extending her arms towards the central figure of Zeus 
Sabdzios(?), who brandishes a sort of double axe as he rides his horse between two 
Kabeiroi (?). Above are Sun, Moon, and two Stars; below, a series of constellations— 
Aquarius (?cp. G. Thiele Antike Himmelsbilder Berlin 1898 p. 67 fig. 11), Aries, Taurus, 
Pisces, Ara, Corvus, Crater. A ram’s head (supra i. 390 ff.) and a syrinx (cp. supra 
p- 296 n. 4 of Attis) occupy the field. 

2 Supra i. 109, 328 n. Q, ii. 314f. : 

3 Hesych. s.v. KdBecpou: kapkivor. mavu 6€ rimdvrac obror év Anum ws Beol: éyovrac 
dé elvac “Hdalorov maides. That xapxivo: here means simply ‘crabs’ is the opinion of 
Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. iv. 748c and O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. x. 1450. 


The double axes of Tenedos 665 


adding that in Lemnos they were treated as gods and called 
the children of Hephaistos. This amazing statement—matched 
only by what we hear of the lobster in Seriphos'—carries us 
back to a primitive age, when the crab was not so much a gro- 
tesque as an awesome thing. Nippers, after all, are no joke; 
and the rd/e played by the crab in religion’, mythology, and 


M. Schmidt ad Joc. says: ‘kapktvot h.e. forcipes, mupaypa.’ I. Voss cited Eustath. 2 Od. 
p- 1389, 26 ff. as d€ Kal Kapldas éoriv ob 7 Tova’Tn Aééts (Sc. Kdumopos) Tnuatver Sydot 
-APnvaros ev 7H KGppopor ‘Kal Te yévos Kapidwy bro ‘Pwuaiwy ottrw kadovmevov’ (cp. Athen. 
306 C—D). kal iows évreDOev of xvdaior Tovs KaBotpous mapépOecpay: but see J. Alberti’s 
n. on the Hesychian gloss. 

1 Ail. de nat. an. 13. 26 dort 6€ dpa Kal rérTE évddeos...00 otTovvTaL dé avTov oi 1oddol, 
vouigovres lepov. Lepipious d€ dxovw kal Odmrew vexpoy éatwxoTa* (OvrTa dé és dikrvov 
éumecovra ov Katéxovow adda drodidbacr TH OaddtTy avOis. Opnvodar b€ dpa abrovs amo- 
Gavévras, kat Néyovor ILepoéws rod Ards dAupua avrovs eivat. 

? Alex. Polyhist. (?) frag. 135a (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 239 Miiller) af. Ail. de nat. an. 
17. 1 AdéEavdpos év Tw Teplrdw THs’ HpvOpas Oadarrnys Né-vyer...€opaxévar...Kkal yévos kapklywr, 
ols TO wey OoTpakov Tiv mepipéperay cixe mavTaxdOev wbda, xnral dé Aprnuévar méy.oTac 
Tpoetxov, emiBouheverOar dé Um’ ovdevds adro’s. TO dé airiov, lepol Aéyorrat Toaedavos. 
Kal apiépevrar TH Hew, oiov dvabjuara elvar exelvou dowh Te Kal dvemiBovNeuTa ol KapKivo.. 
Cp. O. Keller Die antike Tierwelt Leipzig 1913 ii. 491, Cog. 

3 A. de Gubernatis Zoological Mythology London 1872 ii. 354—359 (‘The crab’), 
L. Hopf Thierorakel und Orakelthiere in alter und neuer Zeit Stuttgart 1888 p. 226 
(‘Krebse’), O. Keller Die antike Tierwelt Leipzig 1913 ii. 485—500 (‘Krebse’), O. Dahn- 
hardt Vatursagen Leipzig and Berlin 1907—1912 i—iv Index to each vol. s.v. ‘Krebs.’ 

The monstrous crab sent by Hera to attack Herakles during his fight with the Hydra 
(A. Furtwangler in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 2198 f., 2224, 2243, O. Gruppe in Pauly— 
Wissowa feal-Enc. Suppl. iii. 1033 ff.) appears first on fidu/ae of the Geometric period 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 373 ff. no. 3205 (a) fig. 87, W. N. Bates in the Am. Journ. 
Arch. 1911 xv. 1 ff. figs. 2, 3). Okeanos on imperial coins of Tyre is a reclining figure 
with a head-dress of crab’s-claws (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Phoenicia pp. cxlii, 289 no. 464, 
296 pl. 35, 5): cp. a monochrome mask of Okeanos in a painting from Pompeii (Helbig 
Wandgem. Camp. p. 205 no. 1023 ‘mit Hornern wie von Krebsscheeren,’ figured by 
G, Fiorelli Gzornale degli scavi di Pompei Napoli 1861 p. 16 pl. 3, 6). Thalassa on a 
coin of Perinthos likewise wears a head-dress of crab’s-claws (supra i. 752 f. fig. 552), 
as did a statue in the Forum Constantini at Constantinople representing Thetis (Arethas 
ap. schol. Aristeid. ii. 7to Dindorf 74s dvtixpd év deka eictofor Tay mporuAaiwy Kal n Tod 
*AXAAEws avdKerrat Oéris, Kapklvos THY Kepadiy SvacTtePphs* K.7T.d.) or Amphitrite (Kedren. 
hist. comp. 323 A (i. 565 Bekker) mpds d€ tiv dvarodny h ’Audirpirn, xndAas Exovea Kapklyou 
éml Tay Kpordgdwy. xk.T.d.). This device became, in fact, a commonplace of marine subjects 
(e.g. Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 176 no. 964 bust of Triton: ‘above the forehead are two 
lobster’s or crab’s claws,’ 2d. p. 177 no. 971 sea-god (?): ‘he has lobster’s claws on his 
head,’ Amelung Sczlpt. Vatic. ii. 250 ff. sarcophagus with sea-divinities: ‘ein bartiger 
Meerkentaur mit Krebsscheren am Kopfe.’ See also W. Drexler in Roscher Lex. AZyth. 
i. 1585). 

*Aoraxés or “Agrakos, a town on the Gulf of Olbia in Bithynia, had as eponym 
Astakos, son of Poseidon by the nymph Olbia (Arrian. frag. 29 (frag. hist. Gr. iii. 592) 
ap. Steph. Byz. s.v.”Aoraxos). The name ’Agraxés or “Aorakos has been plausibly derived 
from daraxés, ‘a lobster’ (W. Pape—G. E. Benseler Worterbuch der griechischen Eigen- 
namen® Braunschweig 1875 i. 162 ‘Krabbe’). For the lobster abounded in these waters 
(Archestratos frag. 8 Ribbeck af. Athen. 104 Ff., Aristot. Aist. az. 5.17. 549b 15 f.) and 
furnished an obvious ¢yfe parlant to silver coins of Astakos struck in s. Vv B.C., which 


666 The double axes of Tenedos 


astrology’ was serious enough,—it even lingered on into the middle 





Fig. 605. 





ages’, and has left traces of itself in modern folk-lore*. The 


have this crustacean as their constant device (Waddington—Babelon—Reinach J/onn. 
gr. a As. Min. i. 266 pl. 41, 1—6, Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 2. 1489 ff. pl. 181, 1—6). 
Yet it hardly follows that Astakos in Bithynia, or for that matter Astakos in Akarnania, 
really drew its name from the lobster. A. Fick Vorgriechische Ortsnamen Gottingen 1905 
pp- 85 f., 135 refers these place-names to the Leleges. 

? On Cancer, ‘the Crab,’ as a sign of the zodiac (supra i. 66, 235 n. 2, 759 nn. 2, 6) 
see A. Bouché-Leclercq L’astrologie grecque Paris 1899 pp. 136—138 fig. 6 and Index 
p- 633, Haebler in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 1459 f., A. Jeremias Handbuch der 
altorientalischen Geisteskultur Leipzig 1913 p. 111, adzb., 7d. in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 
1451 f., F. Cumont in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. v. 1046 ff. s.v. ‘zodiacus’ passim. 

2 Witness the story of Prodromos and the demons of the desert in F. Pradel Grtechische 
und stiditalienische Gebete, Beschwirungen und Rezepte des Mittelalters Giessen 1907 
Pp. 36, 27 ff. "Eéopxia rod xaBovpy [‘ Crab,’ cp. 2b. p. 76]. ‘Qs bwriyev 6 Tiwsos Ipddpouos 
év TH éEphuw Kal evpe év TH 00 avTod xLAious pupious avdpas Kal yuvatkas, Bpépy avaplOunra, 
Got dd KaBouplov, dAXo ard Tv oB Hucouv éByaci<pdrwv>- lddv Kal €po8HOn Kal eis 
Ta éricw eotpdgdn kal drdvrnce airov 6 Kipios huav "Inoots Xpiords kai vrepwrncev abrév* 
mov vmd-yers, Tiue Ipddpome; Kvipré wou, éya brdyawa év rH épjuw Kal qipa év TH 60 wou 
Muplous xiAlous dvdpas Kal yuvaixas, Bpépn avaplOunra, &Adov aro KaBoupiov, ddov ard Tay 
oB jwucv €Byaciudrwv, Kal liav abrovs éorpadn [leg. éorpdgny] els Ta dalow. “Yrarye, rime 
IIpédpoue, cal Spxicov aira Ta voonuara els Tov Kipov hudv "Inoodvy Xpiordv kal els rhv 
brepaylay Oeordkov, va WuxN, va wapaby Ta Tov Soddov Tod...... els UOwp molnoe Nuépas Y..K 
kardppixe TA AX <av>a kal dum<édovs>. Jd. 2b. p. g2 n. 4 ‘KaBovpe Krebs. Augen- 
scheinlich haben wir dasselbe Wort, nur das Tier bezeichnend, in dem hssl. caBovpous bei 
Nicol. Myreps. 5168. Fuchs andert es in xapaBous. Vgl. 524.’ [Nikolaos Myrepsos 
(end of s. xiii A.D.) dispensatortum medicum trans. L. Fuchs Francofurti 1626 p. 149 
§ 304 carabuream (‘codex manuscriptus habet xkapaBoupéay’).] See further F. Boll in the 
Archiv f. Rel. 1909 xii. 149 f., who cites Hesych. Kapxw- Aduca (Rohde Psyche? ii. 410) 
and Corp. inscr. Att. App. defix. p. xxxi n. r= D. Bassi—E. Martini Catalogus codicum 
astrologicorum Graecorum Brussels 1903 iv. 132 a lecanomantic prescription from a 
manuscript at Naples (cod. Neapol. 11 C. 33, fol. 233) of datuoves rob meyddou “Acédov... 
Kapxwap kat ) youn (yévn cod. Bassi—Martini cjj. yévva Wiinsch cj. yov7) airod ’Ovoc- 
KeAls, 7s (dvocxeNlda els cod.) 7d dvoua Deurpaund, x.7.A. O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. x. 1951 justly observes: ‘Erst bei der Annahme dieser Gespenster versteht 
man ganz den Witz des Aristophanes in den Wolken v. 1260f.: ris ovroci mor’ éc8’ 6 
Opnvav ; ore mov TGv Kapkivov tis Batpovev épbéyéaro.’ 

3 B. Schmidt Griechische Marchen, Sagen und Volkslieder Leipzig 1877 p. 83 ff. no. 9 
(‘ Prinz Krebs’) tells a Zakynthian tale in which the hero married to the king’s daughter 
is a golden crab by day, but a prince by night, with power to change into an eagle at his 
pleasure. The story is a variant of the Beast-bridegroom formula, on which see e.g. 
J. Bolte—G. Polivka Anmerkungen 2u den Kinder- u. Hausmirchen der Briider Grimm 
Leipzig 1915 il. 234 ff., especially p. 255. 





The double axes of Tenedos 667 


affiliation of the creature to Hephaistos stood to reason: was 
not he a smith? and were not the smith’s tongs or pincers com- 
monly dubbed ‘crabs’ (Larkénoz)}, while a certain species of crab 
was known as ‘tongs’ (pyrdgra)?? Finally, a parallel to the 
Tenedian river-crabs signed with the double axe can be found 
in the Agrigentine river-crabs marked with a bull’s_ head (?) 
(fig. 604) or a Gorgéneion (fig. 605)*. 

If we are justified in supposing that the double axe of Tenedos 
belonged to a god conceived as the rebirth of his own father, 
analogy with the Cretan Zagreus would lead us to expect that 
the Tenedian god too was served with rites of omophagy, in 
which a human victim, regarded as consort of the goddess’*, was 
dismembered and even devoured by the king’. This expectation 
is to some extent realised. For we have already had occasion to 
notice the horrible statement of Euelpis that in Tenedos, as in 
Chios, ‘they used to rend a man in pieces, sacrificing him to Dionysos 


’ Stephanus 7hes. Gr. Ling. iv. 971 B—C. 

2 Hesych. s.v. rupdypa and rupdypy 7) mupdypa. 

3 Tetradrachms of Akragas, struck c. 472415 B.C., have for reverse type a large 
crab (rit. Mus. Cat. Coins Sicily p. 8 no. 38 fig., Hunter Cat. Coins i. 156 pl. 11, 13, 
Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 1. 1545 f. pl. 78, 4, Imhoof-Blumer and O. Keller 77er- und 
Phlanzenbilder auf Miinzen und Gemmen des klassischen Altertums Leipzig 1889 p. 49 
pl. 8, 1). Mr L. A. Borradaile agrees with O. Keller Joc. cit. that this is Telphusa 
fluviatilis, a species of crab common in the sweet waters of central and southern Italy, 
Sicily, Greece, and Asia Minor. He adds that, apart from Japanese pictures, he has 
never seen a more exact representation of it in art. Fig. 604 is from 
a specimen in my collection. Mr E. J. Seltman, from whom I 
obtained it, holds that the crab is marked with a bull’s head as 
sign of the tauriform river-god, and compares the didrachm in- 
scribed A+ J (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Sicily p. 7 no. 25, Babelon 
Monn. gr. rom. ii. 1. 1547 f. pl. 78, 12. Fig. 606 is from a specimen 
of mine), which he would read as an allusion to a festival of Ache- : 
loios (Babelon Afonn. gr. rom, il. 1. 1405 ff, pl. 66, 20, Head Hi2sz. Fig. 606. 
num.” p. 76 fig. 36 a statér of Metapontum with river-god inscribed 


AYEA0S9 AEOAON.,  Schol. T. 2. 24. 616 says of the Acheloios kal Ziceh@rac 


avrov Tyu@ow). This combination, which is undeniably ingenious, was accepted by the 
late J. R. McClean, but involves two doubtful assumptions: (a) that the markings on the 


crab’s back were viewed as a bull’s head by the ancients, and (4) that A-+-J is for A++E, 

4 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Sicily p. 12 no. 62 fig., Imhoof-Blumer and O. Keller Zzer- 
und Pflanzenbilder auf Miinzen und Gemmen des klassischen Altertums Leipzig 1889 
p- 50 pl. 8, 13 (=my fig. 605), O. Keller Die antike Tierwelt Leipzig 1913 ii. 485 f. pl. 2, 
ro (a fanciful rendering of the 7e/phusa fluviatilis, cp. ypats as a name for ‘crab’ in 
Artemid. onezvocr. 2. 14), Head Azst. num.? p. 121. The coin is a drachm of ¢. 413— 
406 B.C. 

For the crab as an afotyépaion on ‘ Gnostic’ gems etc. see Imhoof-Blumer and O. Keller 
op. cit. p. 146f. pl. 24, 24—34, O. Keller of. cit. 11. 486, S. Seligmann Der bose Blick und 
Verwandtes Berlin 1gro ii. 124 and Index p. 500 s.v. ‘Krebs’; and for the crab in 
folk-medicine etc., E. Riess in Pauly—Wissowa eal-Enc. 1. 74. 

® Supra i. 649 n. 7. 6 Supra i. 656 ff. 





668 The double axes of Tenedos 


Omddios (“the god of Raw Flesh”)!’ That the man thus done to 
death was viewed as partner of the goddess, or was actually eaten 
by the king, we are not told. But some such beliefs, more than 
half forgotten, may underlie the later rationalised and romanticised 
legends of the island, which tell how a prince, caught in adultery, 
was savagely slain with an axe. 

The oldest version of the story is preserved in a fragment of 
Aristotle’s work On the Government of Tenedos?*: 


‘A certain king in Tenedos made a law that he who found adulterers should 
slay them both with an axe. And, when it fell out that his son was found in 
adultery, he ordained that the law should be kept even in the case of his own 
son. The son having been slain, the thing passed into a proverb, which is used 
of cruel actions. Hence too the coins of Tenedos have stamped upon them an 
axe on the one side and two heads on the other, to remind men of the fate of 
the king’s son.’ 

With this may be combined sundry statements occurring in the 
mediaeval collections of ancient Greek proverbs. Thus Makarios 
Chrysokephalos (s. xiv A.D.) @ propos of the proverbial ‘ Tenedian 
axe’ says: ‘In the island of, Tenedos were dedicated two axes, 
which were worshipped, and by means of them adulterers were 
slain*. Apostolios too, in explaining another proverb, that of the 
‘Tenedian advocate, refers to the same alleged fact: ‘The Tene- 
dians among their dedicated objects honour a couple of axes‘ 
Apostolios certainly is a very late authority (s. xv A.D.); but he 
appears to be copying verbatim from Souidas®(s. x A.D.) or Photios® 
(s. ix A.D.), and they in turn depend upon earlier and more reliable 
sources. If these allusions to the cult of two axes in Tenedos are 
trustworthy, they furnish an interesting point of comparison with 
Cretan practice’. For here, as there, the two axes might be taken 
to signify god and goddess respectively®: 

Further evidence with regard to the Tenedian axe is forth= 
coming in connexion with another proverb, the ‘man of Tenedos.’ 
Photios® and Souidas” have the following paragraph: 


1 Supra i. 656, 659 n. 6. 

* Aristot. frag. 551 Rose ap. Steph. Byz. s.v. Tévedos, cp. Phot. /ex. and Souid. s.v. 
Tevédios Evyyyopos, Apostol. 16. 26 s.v. Tevédios cuvyyopos. The same account of the 
coin-types is given by Herakleides Pont. de redus publicis 7. 3 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 213 f. 
Miiller). 

® Makar. 8. 7 év yap Tevédw 77 viocw dvo Tedéxers dvéxewwTo ceBdoptor, 5c’ wv avypodvTo 
oi porxol. 

4 Apostol. 16. 26 dv0 yap medéxus (stc) év dvabjuace Tindor Tevéd.or. 

® Souid. s.v. Tevédvos Evvyyopos *...dvo yap meéxers ev avabhuace Tyu@or Tevedior. 

Phot. ex. s.v. Tevédios Evy yyopos *...d0o yap medékers Ev dvabjuace TiuBor Tevédroc. 
7 Supra p. 522. 8 Supra pp. 537, 653. 
® Phot. lex. s.v. Tevédvos dvOpwros. 10 Souid. s.v. Tevédios &v@pwros. 


6 





The double axes of Tenedos 669 


‘Kyknos the son of Poseidon had begotten two children, Hemithea and 
Tennes, when he married again. Tennes was accused by his step-mother of 
making an attempt upon her. Kyknos believed her, put the young man into a 
chest, and, since Hemithea chose to share her brother’s danger, dropped them 
both into the sea. The chest floated to the island that used to be called Leuk- 
ophrys but was afterwards known as Tenedos, taking its name from Tennes. 
He became king of the island and made a law that behind those who bore false 
witness shou'd stand the public executioner, with axe upraised so that, if con- 
victed, they might instantly be put to death. This fearful sight gave rise to the 
proverb, the “man of Tenedos,” which is applied to persons of fearful aspect.’ 


A briefer form of the same paragraph is found in Zenobios’ col- 
lection of proverbs! together with the statement that the proverb in 
question occurred in Menander’s Epheszan?. 

Different again, at least in its concluding portions, is the account 
given by Pausanias, who mentions certain Tenedian axes as among 
the objects dedicated at Delphoi near the eastern end of Apollon’s 
temple’. 


‘The axes,’ he says#, ‘are an offering of Periklytos, son of Euthymachos, a 
native of Tenedos, and refer to an old tale®. They say that Kyknos was a son of 
Poseidon and reigned as king at Kolonai, Kolonai being a town in the Troad over 
against an island called Leukophrys. Kyknos had a daughter named Hemithea 
and a son called Tennes by Prokleia.... This Prokleia died first, and the second 
wife Philonome, daughter of Kragasos, fell in love with Tennes, but failed to win 
hig affection, and told her husband falsely that Tennes had consorted with her 
against her will. Kyknos believed the deceitful tale, put Tennes with his sister 
into a chest, and cast them adrift on the sea. The brother and sister got safely 
to the island Leukophrys, which received its present name from Tennes. But 
Kyknos was not destined to be ignorant of this deception for ever : he therefore 
set sail to find his son, meaning to confess his mistake and ask forgiveness for 
his offence. When he had come to an anchorage at the island, and had fastened 
the hawsers from his ship toa certain rock or tree, Tennes in anger cut the cables 
with an axe. Hence, when people deny a thing stoutly, it is customary to say that 
“so-and-so cut this or that with a Tenedian axe.” The Greeks declare that Tennes 
was slain by Achilles in the act of defending his country. And the Tenedians in 
course of time were compelled by their weakness to attach themselves to the 
inhabitants of Alexandreia on the mainland of the Troad.’ 


The same version of the tale is given by Konon® and Eusta- 


1 Zenob. 6. g. Cp. also Eustath. 2 Dionys. per. 536, Phot. dex. and Souid. s.v. 
Tevéd.os Evy7jyopos, Apostol. 16. 26. 

2 Menand. Zphesius frag. 5 (Frag. com. Gr. iv. 126 Meineke). 

3 On votive double axes of bronze found at Delphoi see safra p. 628 f. 

4 Paus. 10. 14. I—4. 

5 Plout. de Pyth. or. 12 states that the men of Tenedos dedicated their axe at Delphoi 
because at a place called Asterion in their island there were crabs the shells of which were 
marked like an axe. We gather from Souid. and Phot. dex. s.v. Tevédvos Evvyjyopos and 
from Apostol. 16. 26 that these crabs were found in a small river. The place-name 
*Aorépov is again suggestive of ‘ Minoan’ cult (sara i. 543 n. 6, ii. 663). 

6 Konon arr, 28. 


670 The double axes of Tenedos 


thios?, though the latter calls the -brother and sister Tenes and 
Leukothea,and speaks of their step-mother as Philonome or Polyboia. 
Diodoros? adds a few details. It was a flute-player who had falsely 
charged Tennes with attempting the honour of his step-mother : conse- 
quently, when Tennes, after leading a life distinguished for virtue and 
helpfulness, received divine honours, no flute-player was permitted to 
enter his precinct*; nor might any man there mention the name of 
Achilles, since it was Achilles who had slain him. Tzetzes‘* too con- 
tributes his quota. The name of the flute-player that denounced 
Tenes was Molpos® or, as a variant has it, Eumolpos®. Kyknos, 
on discovering the facts of the case, slew Philonome, and himself 
came and dwelt with his children in Tenedos. Here they were all 
three found and attacked by Achilles on his way to Troy. It had 
been fated that Achilles should die whenever he slew a son of 
Apollon, and Thetis had given him as an attendant one Mnemon, 
whose business it was to remind him of this special prohibition. 
But Tenes, though in reality a son of Apollon, passed as the son of 
Kyknos. Achilles, therefore, slew without hesitation both Kyknos 
and Tenes, and, when he realised what he had done, slew Mnemon 
into the bargain. He also pursued Hemithea, who fled from his 
embraces and was swallowed by the earth’. ; 

We fasten on this last statement as an indication that Hemithea 
was originally an earth-power. A goddess of the same name pos- 
sessed a famous sanctuary at Kastabos on the Carian Chersonesos. 
According to local tradition’, Staphylos had by Chrysothemis 
three daughters—Molpadia, Rhoio, and Parthenos. Finding that 
Rhoio was with child (by a man, as he supposed, but in reality by 
Apollon), he shut her up in a chest and flung her into the sea. The 
chest came ashore at Delos, where Rhoio gave birth to Anios and 
dedicated the babe on the altar of Apollon. The god hid the child, 
and later taught him seercraft and brought him to great honour. As 
to Molpadia and Parthenos, they were set to guard their father’s 
wine—a recent invention—but fell asleep at their post. The swine 
they kept got in and broke the wine-jar. The maidens, fearing their 

1 Eustath. zz Dionys. fer. 536, 22 Zl. p. 33, 24 ff. Cp. schol. 7/7. 1. 38 (codd. A. D.: 
codd. B.L. have Tévvys, ‘Hy0éa, and Kadvxy as their step-mother) = Eudok. vzo/. 916. 

2 Diod. 5. 83. 

3 So too Herakleides Pont. de rebus publicts 7. 1 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 213 Miiller). 

4 Tzetz. 72 Lyk. Al. 232 ff.=Eudok. vzol. 549. 

° So also Plout. guaestt. Gr. 28. 

6 So also Apollod. efzz. 3. 24. 

7 See further Plout. gwaestt. Gr. 28, Lyk. Al. 232 ff., Apollod. efit. 3. 23 ff. 

8 Diod. 5. 62 f. On the widely different account given by Parthen. zarr. am. 1 (after 


Nikainetos Avpxos and Ap. Rhod. Kafvos) see P. Friedlander in Pauly—Wissowa eal- 
Enc. viii. 255. 





The double axes of Tenedos 671 


father’s savage anger, fled to the shore and hurled themselves from a 
cliff. Apollon, however, established them in the Chersonesos, giving 
Parthenos a precinct at Boubastos and Molpadia a sanctuary at 
Kastabos, where ‘owing to her divinely-contrived epiphany?’ she 
received the name of Hemithea. Libations to her are made with 
honey-mixture (me/¢kraton), not wine ; and no man that has touched 
a pig or eaten of its flesh may approach her precinct. Here she 
manifests herself by night, working cures and helping women in 
childbirth. Each successive detail confirms us in the belief that at 
Kastabos, as in Tenedos, Hemithea was essentially an earth-goddess. 

The myths told of the two localities had other points in common. 
Not only are the names Molpos and Hemithea in Tenedos balanced 
by the names Molpadia and Hemithea at Kastabos, but the episode 
of Tennes and Hemithea sent to sea in a chest is paralleled by the 
episode of Rhoio and Anios similarly cast adrift. This sozzf is best 
known from the story of Danaé and Perseus. It occurs, however, in at 
least two other Greek tales, the Tegeate tale of Auge and Telephos?, 
and that of Semele and Dionysos as told at Brasiai in Lakonike’, 
not to mention Romulus and Remus in Italy. In fact, the Danaé- 
Jormula, as J.G. von Hahn‘ and T. F. Crane’ have pointed out, recurs 
in modern MWérchen from Naples*, Tuscany’, Wallachia’, Epeiros’, 
etc". The Epirote tale, entitled 7e Half-Man, deserves repetition: 


1 Gta Ti amd Tod Geod yevoueyny éemipdverav ‘Hubéav avoudocda. P. Wesseling ad loc. : 
‘Mallem dé ris Oe00. Ipsa Molpadia videtur indicari, quae praesentem opem aegris 
ferebat, Tots Kduvovar Kara Tovs Urvous EpicTauévn Pavepas.’ 

2? Immerwahr Avlt. Myth. Arkad. p. 55 ff., K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Read- 
Enc. ii. 2300 ff., Gruppe Gr. AZyth. Kel. p. 204 n. It. 

SA Panise ds 24m, aif 

4 J. G. von Hahn Griechische und albanesische Marchen Leipzig 1864 i. 49. The 
formula is missing from the list drawn up by S. Baring-Gould and J. Jacobs in C. S. Burne 
The Handbook of Folklore London 1914 p. 344 ff. But it has been admirably studied by 
E. Cosquin ‘ Le lait de la mere et le coffre flottant’ in the Revue des Questions Historigues 
Nouvelle Série 1908 xxxix 353—425 (especially p. 370 ff. ‘ Le coffre flottant’). 

° T. F. Crane /talian Popular Tales London 1885 p. 336. 

6 G. B. Basile 27 Pentamerone trans. Sir R. F. Burton London 1893 i. 30 ff. (First 
Day: Third Diversion ‘ Peruonto’), E. F. Strange Storzes from the Pentamerone London 
191 p. 22 ff. Peruonto, the princess Vastolla, and their two children, shut up in a cask 
with a basket of raisins and dried figs, are thrown into the sea. ; 

See also F. W. V. Schmidt Dze Marchen des Straparola Berlin 1817 no. 15 and 
W. G. Waters The Nights of Straparola London 1894 1. 35 ff. (Night One: Fable 4 
Doralice in the chest on board ship). 

7 G. Pitre Movelle popolari toscane Firenze 1885 no. 30. 

8 A. and A. Schott Walachische Maehrchen Stuttgart—Tiibingen 1845 no. 27. 

9 J. G. von Hahn Griechische und albanesische Miérchen Leipzig 1864 i. 102 ff. See 
supra. 414 N. 2. 

10 In a tale told by the Kirghiz of Siberia the daughter of a certain Khan, kept in a 
dark iron house, escapes into the bright world. Here the eye of God falls upon her and 
she conceives. Her angry father puts her in a golden chest and sends her floating across 


672 The double axes of Tenedos 


A childless woman prayed for a child. God sent her a boy with half a head, 
half a nose, half a mouth, half a body, one hand, and one foot. He asked his 
mother for an axe and a mule, went off to the forest, and cut wood. One day, 
when riding to work, he caught sight of the king’s daughter, who laughed at him 
so that from chagrin he dropped first his axe and then his cord, and did not even 
get down to pick them up. Staring disconsolately at a pool, he espied a fish, 
netted it in his rough cloak, and learnt from it a spell to obtain all his desires. 
He had but to say: ‘At the first word of God, and at the second of the Fish,’ this 
or that will take place. On his way home he saw the princess again and tried the 
spell upon her, bidding her to become pregnant. In due time she bore an ap- 
parently fatherless child. The king gave the child an apple, and told him to 
hand it to his father. The child handed the apple to the Half-Man. The king in 
anger had an iron vessel made, packed into it the princess, the Half-Man, and 
the child, and, giving them some figs for the child, flung the whole lot into the 
sea. Thereupon the Half-Man, tasting fig after fig, explained the whole situation 
to the princess, and at her suggestion, pronouncing his spell, brought the iron 
vessel safe ashore, provided a shelter from the rain, and built a magic castle with 
speaking stones, beams, and household utensils. It chanced that the king, when 
hunting, came that way and was entertained by the princess. The Half-Man, 
again eating a fig and using his spell, produced a splendid banquet with musicians 
and dancers complete. The king was astounded. But the princess, as a last 
experiment, bade the Half-Man by dint of fig and spell hide a spoon in the 
king’s boot. She then pretended to miss something. The speaking spoon cried 
out and revealed its whereabouts. The king protested that he was being unjustly 
treated. The princess retorted that the wrong he suffered was nothing to the 
wrong he had committed, and told him all. So the king in amazement took his 
daughter back to the palace and married her to one of his lords. The Half-Man 
he made chief of his body-guard, and gave him his prettiest slave-girl to wife. 


It is, no doubt, tempting to view the Half-Man with his axe as the 
complement of Hemzthéa, the ‘Half-Goddess, and to assume some 
connexion with the coin-type of Tenedos. Nevertheless such an 
assumption would be extremely rash’. Other versions show that the 
Half-Man as such is not a constant feature of the folk-tale. The 
inference that I wish to draw is rather that the myth of Tennes and 
the earth-goddess Hemithea had as early as the time of Konon 


the sea—a close parallel to Danaé (W. Radloff Proben der Volkslitteratur der tiirkischen 
Stimme Std-Sibiriens St. Petersburg 1870 iii. 82 f. cited by Frazer Golden Bough’: 
Balder the Beautiful i. 74 n. 2). 

In another, from U/aghatsh, a village of Kappadokia, the boy destined to be king is 
placed in a chest by his father and mother, and thrown into the sea (R. M. Dawkins 
Modern Greek in Asia Minor Cambridge 1916 p. 358 f. text and translation). 

See also die Briider Grimm Avzder und Hausmarchen Gottingen 1850 i. 175 ff. no. 29, 
G. O. H. Cavallius—G. Stephens Schwedische Volkssagen und Marchen Wien 1848 p. 95, 
A. Chodsko Fairy Tales of the Slav Peasants and Herdsmen trans. E. J. Harding London 
1896 p. 313 ff. (princess and Sluggard shut up in a crystal cask and sent into the air 
by means of a balloon). 

! At most it may be conceded that the whimsical notion of a half-man arose from 
some more serious stvatum of popular belief: cp. what Zeus says of men in Plat. symp. 
190 D éav 6 ére SoxGow doedyaivew Kal wi Oé\wow jovxlay dyew, wddw ai, én, TEKO 
dixa, wor’ ep’ évds mopedcovTar oxédous doxwAiforTes. 


i. 


a 


The double axes of Tenedos 673 


(between 41 B.C. and 17 A.D.) been run into the mould of a Marchen 
involving the popular feature of the floating coffer. Possibly, too, the 
original character of the heroine as an earth-goddess persists in the 
trait that she must give the hero a fig before he can work his magic. 

Returning now to the coin-types, we note that J. H. Eckhel? 
more than a century ago identified the Janiform head as a com- 
bination of Tennes and Hemithea. His conclusion was, I believe, 
substantially correct. Indeed, it might be maintained that the very 
name Hemzthéa, the ‘Half-Goddess,’ or A mphithéa, the ‘Double-God- 
dess, as Hekataios? called her, has reference to the twofold type*. 
Only it must, I think, be borne in mind that Tennes and Hemithea, 
who bulk so big in the later myths of Tenedos, are but heroic repre- 
sentatives of an earlier sky-god and earth-goddess. Behind them we 
can detect the Thraco-Phrygian Dionysos and Semele, who in turn 
conceal the faded forms of the ‘Minoan’ Kronos and Rhea. As to 
the outward expression of their worship, at first a double axe or a 
pair of double axes symbolised the union of the two great powers. 
Then, in the sixth century B.C., we find a Janiform image serving the 
same purpose. Ultimately the divine couple appear to have had 
separate effigies, and that of Tennes at least had some pretensions 
to beauty. The Tenedians, says Diodoros? in the first century B.C., 
‘made a precinct of Tennes and used to honour him as a god with 
sacrifices, which they kept up till modern times.’ Verres, therefore, 
deeply offended them when—as Cicero’ informs us—he carried off 
from their midst a very handsome statue of ‘Tenes himself, who in 
Tenedos is deemed a god most holy.’ 

The ‘Minoan’ cult, which occasioned the Tenedian combination 
of gcd and goddess, seems to have led to a like result elsewhere. 
A scaraboid gem of striped brown sard, found in Kypros and now 
forming part of a private collection in this country, shows a double 
head closely resembling that on the early coins of Tenedos (fig. 607)*. 
Silver coins of the ‘Philisto-Arabian’ series, struck during the fifth 
century B.C. at Gaza Wznéa, likewise represent a bisexual Janiform 


1 Eckhel Doctr. num. vet.? ii. 489. 

2 Hekataios frag. 139 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. g Miiller) af. Steph. Byz. s.v. Tévedos. 

3 Cp. supra pp. 328 (Ambisagrus), 421 (Amphisthenes, Amphikles), 445 (Amphion). 

* Diod. 5. 83 (spra p. 670) Tedeurjoas 5 abavdrow Ticy HEWOy (sc. Tévyns): Kal yap 
Té“evos avTod Kateckevacay Kal Ovolais ws Oedv éeriuwy, as duerédovy BvovTes méxpe TOV 
vewTépwv KaipOv. 

5 Cic. tz Verr. 2. 1. 49 Tenedo...Tenem ipsum, qui apud Tenedios sanctissimus deus 
habetur, qui urbem illam dicitur condidisse, cuius ex nomine Tenedus nominatur,—-hunc 
ipsum, inquam, Tenem, pulcherrime factum, quem quondam in comitio vidistis, abstulit 
magno cum gemitu civitatis. 

6 Furtwaingler Anz. Gemmen i pl. 6, 65 (=my fig. 607: scale 7), il. 31. 


rong 43 


674 The double axes of Tenedos 


head (figs. 608, 609). One specimen, in the British Museum, gives 
the male face a snub nose and a pointed ear, thereby imparting a 
Satyric character to the head (fig. 610)*.. Another, at Paris, turns the 
profile into a full face with broad nose (fig. 611)*.. This very curious 
treatment suggests that the god is Bes, who—unlike the general run 
of Egyptian deities—commonly appears ex face’. The suggestion is 





Fig. 611. Fig. 612. Fig. 613. 
strengthened by a third specimen, also at Paris, which shows a 
bearded head with a mask of Bes attached to the back of it (fig. 612)°. 
It is possible too that both god and goddess stood in some relation 
to the lion; for the obverse of the first Parisian coin has two bearded 
heads surmounted by two lion-heads with lion-skins depending on 
either side (fig. 611), and the reverse of yet another Parisian coin 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Palestine pp. lxxxiii ff., 176 f. pl. 19,°1—3, 7, p- 179 pl. 19, 
20, Hunter Cat. Coins iii. 282 pl. 77, 30, Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 2.645 ff. pl. 123, 
10, 11 f., 13 (=my fig. 608), 14, p. 651 ff. pl. 123, 25, Head Hist. num.” p. 805. Fig. 609 
is from a specimen in the McClean collection at Cambridge. These coins are all drachms 
of Attic weight. As to their types, the owl and its accompanying inscription are certainly 
derived from Athenian originals modified to suit local requirements (J. P. Six in the 
Num, Chron. New Series 1877 xvii. 231, Babelon of. czt. ii. 2. 645 f., G. F. Hill in the 
Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Palestine p. lxxxiv). The Janiform head has been referred to that 
of Lampsakos (Babelon of. czt. ii. 2. 645 f.), or to that of an Athenian trihemiobol 
(G. F. Hill doc. c#t. p. xxxiv f.): but both at Lampsakos and at Athens the double head 
is beardless. 

2 Brit. Mus, Cat. Coins Palestine p. 181 pl. 19, 30 (=my fig. 610). 

3 Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 2. 657 f. pl. 124, 7 (=my fig. 611). 

+ K. Sethe in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 325. 

> Babelon Monn. gr. vom. ii. 2. 659 f. pl. 124, 11 (=my fig. 612). 


The double axes of Tenedos 675 


combines the profile of a goddess with that of a lion (fig. 613). If so, 
we may surmise that at Gaza, as in Tenedos, the Janiform head 
points backwards to the ‘Minoan’ cult of Kronos and Rhea. Rhea 
as the local Tyche kept her place from first to last. Kronos was suc- 
ceeded by Zeus Kvretagenés*, otherwise known as Marnas*, and 
apparently as Zeus A/démios or Aldos*, while Zeus in turn was 
partially eclipsed by the popular figure of Bes. 

These Levantine examples of the male-f/ws-female head should 





Fig. 615. 


be compared, as J. P. Six® points out, with Berossos’ description of 


the primeval androgynous being represented in the temple of Zeus 
Bélos at Babylon®. 


_ A parallel to the survival of the ‘Minoan’ double axe in Tenedos 
might also be sought in Korkyra. Shortly before the battle of Aktion 
(31 B.c.) C. Proculeius, the partisan and friend of Octavian, struck 
copper coins in Korkyra with a head of Zeus on one side and a 
double axe on the other (figs. 614,615)’. The head is accompanied 


1 Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 2. 659 f. pl. 124, 10 (=my fig. 613) described as ‘ Téte 
imberbe d’Heéraclés a droite, coiffée de la peau de lion.’ But the head, which has an ear- 
ring, is obviously derived from that of Athena on Attic tetradrachms etc. 

* Supra i. 149 n. I, 478 with n. 4, zzfra § 9 (g). 

3 Supra i. 149 n. I, 167 n. 3, 478, infra § 9 (g). 

+ Methodios af. et. mag. p. 58, 20 ff. "ANOjutos 7) “ANOos, 6 Leds, ds ev Taf ris Zuplas 
TYyLaTal* Tapa TO addalvw, TO av&dvw~ O Emi THS avéEjoews TOV Kapwav. MeOdd.0s. Cod. Vb. 
omits és (as does cod. D.) and reads otirws MeOédt0s. S. Bochart Phaleg* Lugduni Bata- 
vorum—Trajecti ad Rhenum 1692 p. 748, F.C. Movers Die Phénizter Berlin 1841 1. 262, 
and E. Renan J/tsston en Phénicie Paris 1864 p. 515 f. propound Semitic derivations of the 
appellative. K. B. Stark Gaza und die philistdische Kiiste Jena 1852 p. 578 is content to 
derive it from a\éaiyw. Gruppe Gr. AZyth. Rel. p. 248 n. 4 says: ‘noch nicht gedeutet.’ 
W. W. Baudissin Adonzs und Esmun Leipzig 1911 p. 489 n. 3 falls back on ‘ein Ortsname.’ 
G. F. Hill in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1915 xxxv. 150 risks no conjecture. 

5 J. P. Six in the Mum. Chron. New Series 1877 xvii. 230 n. 140. 

6 Berossos Babyloniaca sive Chaldaica frag. 1. 4 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 497 Miiller) af. 
Synkell. chron. 29 B (i. 52 Dindorf) yevéoOar pyol xpdvov év @ 70 way oKbros Kai Udwp elvac 
kat év Tovros (Ga TepaTwdn Kal eldipvels (J. D. G. Richter cj. ddtopvets A. Mai cj. avro- 
gvets J.J. Scaliger cj. duvets) ras idéas ExovTa (woyovetcOar. avOpwrous yap dumrrépous 
yevunOjvat, évious 5é kat Terpamrépous Kal durpoowrous’ Kal cGua pev éxovTas Ev, Kepadas 
dé dvo, avdpelay Te kal yuvarkelav, kal aldotd Te ducod, dppev Kai O7rv. x.T.A. On Zeus Bélos 
see supra i. 756 f. 

7 Fig. 614 is from Babelon Monn. rép. rom. ii. 388 fig.; fig. 615, from the cast 
of a specimen in the British Museum (4777. Aus. Cat. Rom. Coins Rep. il. 534 no. 235 
pl. 116, 27)). 


43—2 


676 The double axes of Tenedos 


by a monogram of the Greek letters KO, and there is frequently 
(figs. 614, 617) a countermark which appears to represent a double 
axe in a circle’. Now Proculeius is known to have been interested 
in the religious and mythical antiquities of the neighbourhood. For 
a small piece struck by him shows an Agyzezs-pillar (fig. 616)?, and 














ine 
NK 
¢ viel 
F 


a large piece shows the ray-fish® whose poisonous tail, used as a 
spear-head* by Telegonos, caused the death of Odysseus (fig. 617)°. 
It is therefore likely enough that the double axe associated with 
Zeus in Korkyra was none other than the weapon of the old 
‘Minoan’ sky-god. 


r 
fe) 
ke 


\ 
cP 





Fig. 616. Fig. 617. 


1M. Bahrfeldt Machtraige und Berichtigungen zur Miinzkunde Wien 1897 p. 227. 

2 M. Bahrfeldt of. cit. p. 227 fig. (=my fig. 616) pl. 10, 241. 

3 Numismatists for more than a century past (e.g. S. Havercamp in Morell. 7hes. Num. 
Fam. Rom. i. 361 pl. Proculeia, 2, Rasche Lex. Num. vii. 171 f., 723) have described the 
type of this interesting coin as a ray-fish. F. Imhoof-Blumer and O. Keller Z7zer- und 
Pflanzenbilder auf Miinzen und Gemmen Leipzig 1889 p. 43 pl. 6, 42 specify the thorn- 
back (Raja clavata). O. Keller Die antike Tierwelt Leipzig 1913 ii. 376f. pl. 2, 3 repeats 
this opinion, and further regards the death of Odysseus as due to the same fish. J. van 
Leeuwen, commenting on Od. 11. 134 ff. (ed. 2 Lugduni-Batavorum 1917), argues that 
the spear-head of Telegonos was the tail of a sting-ray (Raya pastinaca), which is not 
merely a formidable weapon (Plin. zat. hist. 9. 144) but actually poisonous (Opp. de pzsc. 
2. 470ff., cp. A. C. L. G. Giinther Ax Zntroduction to the Study of Fishes Edinburgh 1880 
p- 190 fig. 98, p. 342, R. Lydekker 7he Royal Natural History London 1896 v. 545). 
A. C. Pearson, @ propos of Soph. ’Odvcceds dxavOomdnE 7 Néiwrpa (Zhe Fragments of 
Sophocles Cambridge 1917 ii. 105 ff.), by a curious slip takes Telegonos’ fish to have been 
aroach. W. Radcliffe /ishing from the Earliest Times London 1921 justly protests that 
‘the absolutely harmless Roach’ will not do, and agrees with J. van Leeuwen that the 
fish must have been a sting-ray. Returning to the subject in Zhe 7imes Literary Supplement 
for Jan. 5, 1922 p- 13 Mr Radcliffe accepts a suggestion of Prof. D’Arcy W. Thompson 
(2b. for Dec. 15, 1921 p. 844) that the precise species was ‘a great Eagle-Ray’ (AZy/obatis 
aqua). 

+ Dr A. C. Haddon informs me (Jan. 23, 1922) that spears tipped with spines of the 
sting-ray are well known in Melanesia generally and also in Queensland (eg. British 
Museum: Handbook to the Ethnographical Collections London 1910 p. 121 fig. 99, a from 
the Fiji Islands). Kwoiam, a legendary hero of the Torres Straits, killed his mother by 
means of a spear pointed with three sting-ray spines (A. C. Haddon Reforts of the 
Cambridge Anthropological Expedition to Torres Straits Cambridge 1904 v. 71)—a perfect 
parallel to the story of Telegonos. 

> Fig. 617 is from Babelon Monn. rép. rom. ii. 388 fig. (‘Jupiter en Terme.’ Haver- 
camp /oc. cit.: ‘Terminalis Jovis vel Neptuni.’ Rasche of. cét. vii. 171: ‘Neptuni.’ 
Imhoof-Blumer Zoc. cz¢.: ‘ Hermenkopf’). 





The axe and the sacred oak at Dodona 677 


(7) The hafted axe as a religious symbol. 


The coins of Tenedos are by no means the only classical relic of 
pre-classical axe-cult. But before considering further evidence it 
will be well, for clearness’ sake, to restate the essentials of the cult 
in question. 

Throughout the Aegean and Adriatic area, as I maintain!, we 
can trace the joint worship of a sky-father and an earth-mother. 
The former descends from above when the lightning flashes down 
and, in old aniconic days, leaves his weapon as a tangible token of 
himself. The latter ascends from below when vegetation springs up 
and, at the same early epoch, gives a visible proof of her presence in 
the sacred tree. Where, as was the case with the sarcophagus from 
Hagia Triada*, we see the axe imbedded in the trunk, there we 
must recognise the union of the sky-father with the earth-mother, a 
union essential to the fertility of men and beasts and crops. The 
axe imbedded in a tree is the prototype of the axe imbedded in a 
wooden column? or a stalactite pillar‘. Ultimately a hafted axe 
of the usual sort is found serving as a symbol of the united deities, 
the axe-head being the male, the axe-handle the female, element in 
their union. 


(ep) The axe and the sacred oak at Dodona. 


The axe imbedded in the sacred tree is a feature of sundry cults, 
myths, and folk-tales. Early in the third century A.D. Philostratos 
described a real or imaginary painting of Dodona®. ‘The golden 
pigeon, he wrote, ‘is still upon the oak-tree, she that is wise in 
sayings and oracles that she utters as from Zeus. And here lies the 
double axe left by Hellos the wood-cutter, from whom the Helloi 
of Dodona trace their descent. Fillets too are hung from the oak ; 
for it gives oracles as does the tripod at Pytho.’ This painting of 
the cult-scene at Dodona bears a curious resemblance to that of the 
cult-scene at Hagia Triada. In both we have the same noteworthy 
association of bird, axe, and tree. Moreover, the small votive axes 
of bronze found at Dodona (fig. 618) recall the miniature votive 


1 Transactions of the Third International Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 


1908 ii. 193 f. 
2 Supra pp. 517 f., 520f. 
3 Supra p. 528 f. 4 Supra p. 530 ff. 


> Philostr. mai. zmagg. 2. 33. 1. For the Teubner text of the first clause 7 wey xpuo7 
médea é7’ éml rhs Spvds év Noylos } copy Kal xpnopol, x.T.., which must be wrong 
(C. F. W. Jacobs cj. 7 meév xpuoq medeuds 7) él THs Spuds év Aoyiows Hv cop Kal of Xpyopol, 
x.7.A.), L would read 4 mév xpuo} médeva er’ érl rhs Spvos 7 év Noylors copy kal xpyopmors, 
K.T.A. 

5 Supra p. 648. Fig. 618 is from C. Carapanos Dodone et ses ruines Paris 1878 p. 100 f. 
pl. 54, 7 (length o’12™). 


678 The axe and the sacred oak at Dodona 


axes of Crete. A fine double axe of iron, also from Dodona 
(fig. 619)!, may give us some idea of Hellos’ tool. 

Philostratos’ statement with regard to the axe left, apparently 
in the sacred tree, by the forefather of the Dodonaean priests is 
indeed remarkable. But still more remarkable is a folk-tale heard 
by J. G. von Hahn at /dnina, close to the site of the ancient 
Dodona. For in this tale not only do we get the incident of the 


Fig. 618. 





priestly wood-cutter leaving his axe in the tree, but also we have 
unmistakeable evidence of the axe being conceived as male and the 
tree as female. If I am right in my interpretation of the tale (and 
there is small room for error), it follows that here in an out-of-the- 
way corner of Europe survives a primitive conception which can be 
traced backwards, thanks to the Cretan sarcophagus, for the best 
part of four thousand years. The tale is this? :— 


‘A priest once went with his wife into the wood to cut timber. They found 
there a wood-cutter, with whom the woman went deeper into the wood. But the 
priest set about felling a wild pear-tree with his axe. He hewed and hewed till 
there was but a span left to cut through, and then he waited for his wife to come 
before cutting the rest. The tree, however, was so thick that it no longer held 
together, but collapsed of itself. No sooner had this happened than out of it 
came a she-bear, who said to the priest: “ You must lie with me.” “Hush!” 
replied the priest, “I am a holy man and dare not do so.” “That’s all one to 
me ; do what I tell you,” said the she-bear, and looked at him with so fierce a 
look that he was scared and, for good or ill, did what she wanted. 


1 C. Carapanos of. cit. p. 109 pl. 57, 6 and 6 dzs (=my fig. 619). Length o-21™. 
2 Text unpublished ; German translation in J. G. von Hahn Griechische und albanes- 
ische Mérchen Leipzig 1864 ii. 72 ff. no. 75 ‘ Das Barenkind.’ 


The axe and the sacred oak at Dodona 679 


Afterwards the she-bear had a child, who grew up strong, but being unlike 
the other bear-children got called a bastard. So one day the youngster asked 
his mother whether what his brothers said about him was true. And she made 
answer: “ You have the axe for father.” “Oh! mother, can the axe then beget 
children ?” asked the boy, and pressed his mother for an answer till she said: 

“Take the axe, stand with it before the church, and ask—To whom does this 
axe belong? And, whoever recognises it, that man is your father.” The boy did 
as he was bidden ; but one after the other the people came out of church, and 
nobody would claim the axe. At last the priest too came out, and asked the 
boy: “‘ Where did you get that axe from? It is mine!” And he replied: “If it 
is yours, so am 1!” “Hush, blasphemer!” “Why so? You are in truth my 
father.” So the boy went home with the priest, who said to his wife : “ See, I’ve 
brought you this boy to serve you.” The wife was pleased and said: ‘‘ That’s 
capital! Many thanks.” 

The first day the boy ate a loaf of bread. The second, he ate as much as 
the priest took in a whole month. Thereupon the priest said “ You’re no good 
to us!” and handed him over to a baker. Here the boy ate all the bread that 
the baker baked. 

Then the king’s cook came to the oven and, having had a look at him, told 
his master that he had seen such a fellow. The king was astonished, had the 
lad brought before him, and asked: “Can you load sixty mules with timber?” 
“‘Certainly,” said he ; “only you must have an axe made to suit me.” Then the 
king had an axe made that weighed a hundred pounds. But the lad took it in 
his hands, broke it in pieces, and said: “That’s no good to me; I must have 
a stouter one.” After this they made him one that weighed five hundred pounds. 
He swung it with a single hand, and said: ‘‘ That’s the right axe for me!” He 
took the mules, went with them into a coppice, brought his axe to bear on the 
trees, and promptly had his sixty mules laden. On his way back he passed a 
plane-tree, seized it with his hands, wrenched it out of the ground, and carried 
it over his shoulder. Coming into the town like this, he tore down with his tree 
the roofs of the huts which stood beside his way. When the king saw him 
marching along, he was astonished and said to the baker: “ He does indeed eat 
much, but he works much too; I will take him into my service.” As time went 
on, the bear-child grew stronger and stronger. This great strength began to 
cause the king so much anxiety that he feared for his life. So he sent the lad 
forth to fetch the treasures of the Dogs-heads, hoping that these heads would 
devour him. But first they agreed that the king should give half his kingdom 
to the bear’s son, if he brought the treasures. Off he went, beat the Dogs-heads, 
won thereby half'the kingdom, and lived happily. But we here live more happily 
still.’ 


This folk-tale, which in part falls under J. G. von Hahn’s thirty- 
seventh formula— Strong Hans!’—and contains obvious parallels 
to the myth of Herakles, belongs to a very ancient stratum of 
human thought, and we need not hesitate to recognise in the axe- 
father and the tree-mother of the hero a genuine echo of primitive 
belief. 


1 J. G. von Hahn Griechische und albanesische Marchen Leipzig 1864 i. 59. The 
closest resemblance to our tale is borne by one from Argyllshire entitled ‘The son of the 
Strong Man of the Wood’ (J. Macdougall Fo/k and Hero Tales London 1891 p. 187 ff.). 


680 The sword and the 


(c) The sword and the sacred tree at Rhegion. 


The appearance of the tree-mother as a bear suggests compari- 
son with Artemis, whose relations to that animal are well known’. 
It is therefore interesting to find that Orestes, when he fled from 
the Taurian land with the image of Artemis, touched at Rhegion 
for purposes of purification, built there a temple of Apollon, and on 
departure left his sword in a tree, where it was long to be seen’. 
The ‘Swordsman’s Harbour’ at Rhegion perhaps commemorated 
his exploit®. Further, he bore the image of Artemis done up ina 
bundle of rods, from which circumstance she received her title 
Phakelétis* or Phakeline®, the goddess ‘of the Bundle.’ I have else- 
where® argued that this title enables us to regard as analogous cases 
the axe projecting from a bundle of rods, which was carried by the 
Roman lictor’, and the iron scimitar set up on numerous bundles of 
sticks, which was worshipped by the Scythians*. 

Another myth that should be considered in this connexion is 
that of Myrrha, the daughter of Kinyras. According to one version’, 
she loved her own father, made him drunk, and consorted with him™. 
When he realised what had happened, he pursued her with a drawn 
sword. Hereupon she was changed into a ‘myrrh’-tree. Her father 
struck it with his sword; and from the tree Adonis was born. It 
may be suspected that in this form of the story the sword has taken 
the place of a double axe. For a copper of Myra in Lykia issued 
by Gordianus iii Pius (238—244 A.D.) shows a tree, with a female 


1 J. J. Bachofen Der Ber in den Religionen des Alterthums Basel 1863 p. 15 ff., 
S. Reinach in the Revue celtigue 1900 xxi. 287 ff. with pl. 1 (=zd. Cultes, Mythes et 
Religions Paris 1905 i. 55 ff. with fig. 1), Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. Index p. 1898 s.v. ‘ Bar,’ 
O. Keller Die antike Tierwelt Leipzig 1909 i. 176. Suprai. 417, 421f., 442, 453 N. 5, 784. 

2 Varro and Cato ap. Prob. zz Verg. ecl. praef. p. 348 Lion. 

3 In Hesych. Erdipou Nuujv: Alcx’dos Tav’cw Iorve?. 6 ropOuds. ratra yap mavra 
Ta Tepl ‘“Pry.ov wpetwy I. Casaubon cj. Epypov, which F. G. Schneidewin Diana Phace- 
litis et Orestes apud Rheginos et Siculos Gottingae 1832 p. 11 corrected into Etpypous. 
A. Meineke in Phzlologus 1858 xiii. 510 f. proposed Zupnpous Ayunv: and [ra] wept ‘Pxyov 
... Opiwy(os épyov) on the strength of Diod. 4. 85. See further J. Alberti and M. Schmidt 
ad loc., A. Nauck on Aisch. frag. 33 Nauck?, Philipp in Pauly—Wissowa eal- uc. i A. 
496. It is uncertain whether &:@ypys refers to Orion, as in Eur. /oz 1153, or to Orestes 
(cp. Strab. 239 Epnpns ody éorw adel of the priest at Nemi, whose mythical prototype was 
Orestes). 

+ Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 2. 116, Prob. loc. cit. Cp. Serv. 7z Verg. ecl. praef. p. 95 Lion. 

® Lucil. sat. 3 frag. 72 Bahrens. 

® Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 362 n. 3. 

7 Supra p. 633 ff. 8 Supra p. 547 1. 3- 

® Interp. Serv. zz Verg. Aen. 5. 72, Hyg. fab. 164, Fulgent. myth. 3. 8, Myth. Vat. 
I. 200, 2. 34, 3. 11. 17-- That Kinyras pursued his daughter with a sword is stated also 
by Apollod. 3. 14. 4, Ov. met. 10. 471 ff., interp. Serv. zz Verg. ec. 10. 18. 

10 On the significance of such incest see the convincing remarks of Frazer Golden 
Bough*®: Adonis Attis Osiris? i. 43 f. 





sacred tree at Rhegion 681 


image in its branches, attacked by two men with double axes and 
defended by two snakes (fig. 620) This unusual design can be 
paralleled by gvasz-autonomous coppers of Aphrodisias in Karia: 
here a leafless tree is attacked by two naked men, wearing Phrygian 
caps, of whom one brandishes a double axe and the other kneels or 
runs away (figs. 621, 622)*, On specimens struck by Saloninus 
(253—266 (?) A.D.) (fig. 623)? or Valerianus (253—260 A.D.) (fig. 





Fig. 621. 


624)* a third man is present, with uplifted arms. A. Lébbecke® and 
F. Imhoof-Blumer® interpret these coins of Myra and Aphrodisias 
as representing the myth of Myrrha. The latter scholar even sup- 
poses that the third person present (a grown man!) is meant for 
Adonis. In my opinion it is far more probable that the coins of 
both towns commemorate a local rite of threatening the sacred tree 
in order to make it fruitful. Sir James Frazer collects analogous 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lycia pp. livf., 71 pl. 15, 6 (=my fig. 620), Imhoof-Blumer 
and O. Keller Zter- und Pflanzenbilder auf Miinzen und Gemmen Leipzig 1889 p. 63 
pl. 10, 42, P. Gardner Zyfes of Gk. Coins p. 78 pl. 15,6, Head Ast. num.” p. 695 f. 
fig. 316. G. F. Hill in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lycia p. 71 describes the goddess as 
*simulacrum of Artemis Eleuthera, wearing modius and veil’ (cp. Artemid. ovezvocr. 2. 35 
H Aeyouévyn apd Autos ’ENevbépa), but 2d. p. liv admits that there may be ‘a contamina- 
tion of the cult of Eleuthera with the legend of Myrrha or of Myrike’ (cp. J. Murr Die 
Phlanzenwelt in der griechischen Mythologie Innsbruck 1890 pp. 76 f., 106 f.). 

2 Brit. Mus, Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 36 pl. 6, 7, Imhoof-Blumer and O. Keller 
op. cit. p. 64 pl. 10, 43 (=my fig. 621), Head Hist. num.” p. 610. Fig. 622 is from a 
specimen in my collection. 

3 Imhoof-Blumer Gr. Miinzen p. 142 f. no. 422 pl. 9, 29 (=my fig. 623). 

4 A. Lobbecke in the Zeztschr. f. Num. 1890 xvii. 11 f. pl. 2, 1 (=my fig. 624). 

> A. Lobbecke Joc. cit. § Tmhoof-Blumer Gr. Mzinzen p. 143+ 


682 The sword and the sacred tree at Rhegion 


rites from the East Indies, Japan, Armenia, South Slavonia, Bulgaria, 
Lesbos, Sicily, the Abruzzi, etc... A sample will serve: 

‘On Christmas Eve many a South Slavonian and Bulgarian peasant swings 
an axe threateningly against a barren fruit-tree, while another man standing by 
intercedes for the menaced tree, saying, ‘Do not cut it down; it will soon bear 
fruit.” Thrice the axe is swung, and thrice the impending blow is arrested at 
the entreaty of the intercessor. After that the frightened tree will certainly bear 
fruit next year.’ 

If this be the dvémenon portrayed on our coins, it is obvious that they 
need not have anything to do with Myrrha and her ‘ myrrh’-tree. 

The sword left in the tree is a circumstance which occurs in the 
tales of other nations also. The Volsung saga’, for example, tells 
how king Rerir and his wife remained without a son till Ljod, 
daughter of the giant Hrimnir, was sent in the form of a crow by 
Freyia to bring them an apple. She let the apple fall into the lap 
of the king as he sat upon a mound. He took it home and came to 
the queen, who ate part of it. After a sickness lasting six winters 
she was forcibly delivered of a man-child, great of growth from his 
birth, who was called Volsung and became king of Hunland in the 
room of his father. He married Ljod, Hrimnir’s daughter, and had 
by her ten sons and one daughter. Now king Volsung built his 
hall in such a manner that it enclosed a big oak-tree. The trunk 
stood in the hall; the branches and blossoms‘ spread out over the 
roof. The tree was termed a darnstokk or ‘child-tree’ and also, 
somewhat inconsequently, apaldr, an ‘apple-tree.’ At the marriage- 
feast of king Volsung’s daughter Signy and Siggeir king of Gothland 
a huge one-eyed old man‘, bare-footed but wearing a spotted cloak 
and tight linen breeches, entered the hall. He drew his sword® and 
plunged it up to the hilts in the tree-trunk, declaring that whosoever 
could pull it out might keep it for his own. This said, he took his 
departure. Those present attempted to pull out the sword; but 
none succeeded save Sigmund, son of king Volsung. 

Similarly in an Irish folk-tale’, when Fin and the Fenians were 
at Fintra, a ship sailed into harbour with only one woman on board. 
She saluted Fin and asked whether he would play a game of chess 


1 Frazer Golden Bough*®: The Magic Art ii. 2o—22. 

2 Jd. ib.: The Magic Art ii. 21. Cp. the parable of the barren fig-tree in Luke 13. 6—9. 

3 Text and critical notes in E. Wilken Dée prosaische Edda Paderborn 1877 i. 149 ff. 
(‘ Vglsungasaga’ chap. 1 f.); English translation by E. Magntisson and W. Morris Zhe 
Story of the Volsungs and Niblungs London 1870 p. t ff. 

4 My friend Prof. H. M. Chadwick informs me that the Icelandic writer may mean 
‘leaves.’ 5 Othin. 

8 Cp. supra p. 547 n. 3 for the sword of Mars owned by Attila, lord of the Hunni. 

7 Text unpublished; English translation by J. Curtin Hero-Tales of Lreland Boston 
1894 p. 484 ff. (‘Fin MacCool, Faolan, and the Mountain of Happiness’). 





The axes and the sacred oaks at Dotion 683 


with her for a sentence. Fin agreed. They played. She won and 
sentenced him to take her for his wife. After a time she said: ‘I 
must leave you now for a season.’ Fin then drove his sword into 
a tree-stump and said: ‘Call your son Faolan (“ Little Wolf’’), and 
never send him to me until he is able to draw the sword from this 
stump.’ She took the stump with her and sailed away homeward. 
She nursed her son for three days only, and called him Fao/an. 
When ten years old, he was taunted by a playmate for not knowing 
who his father was. He asked his mother, who told him about Fin 
and the tree-stump. With one pull he drew out the sword, and then 
set forth, accompanied by his mother’s blessing, to find his father. 
His subsequent adventures do not here concern us; but it is obvious 
that thus far the story has at least some points in common with 
J. G. von Hahn’s tale from Dodona and with the Volsung saga. 


(rt) The axes and the sacred oaks at Dotion. 


The enormous appetite of the strong man in the folk-tale from 
Dodona reminds us, not only of the ever-hungry Herakles, but also 
of the insatiate Erysichthon, whose myth again includes the incident 
of an axe left in a sacred tree. 

The story is told by Kallimachos? as follows. The Pelasgians, 
before they migrated from Thessaly to Knidos, had planted a grove 
for Demeter at Dotion. Here dwelt the royal family of the Triopidai. 
Erysichthon, son of Triopas, acting under some infatuation, armed 
his followers with axes and hatchets, and invaded the grove. The 
first tree attacked was a magnificent poplar?, which groaned aloud. 
Demeter heard it and, appearing in the likeness of her priestess, 
attempted to dissuade the madman. He at once threatened to fell 
her with his axe, being bent on fashioning the timbers of a house 
in which to feast with his friends. Demeter in wrath resumed her 
godlike form; and Erysichthon’s comrades horror-struck left their 
axes sticking in the oaks*, She punished their chief by inflicting 
on him a hunger that nothing would satisfy. 

Ovid? tells the same tale with some variations. He describes 
the tree cut down by Erysichthon as an ancient oak® adorned with 
fillets and tablets by the pious rustics. Though the Dryads had 
often danced beneath it, the son of Triops bade his servants fell it. 
When they hesitated, he caught up an axe and swore that the tree 
should fall, though it were not merely the favourite of the goddess, 


1 Kallim. 2. Dem. 24—117. 

2 Td. ib. 37 al-yeipos. Supra p. 497 0. 5. 

3 Td. ib. 60 évi Spval yadkov apévrtes. 4 Ov. met. 8. 738 ff. 
° 7d. ib. 8. 743 ingens annoso robore quercus. 


? 


684 The knife and the sacred oak at Phylake 


but the goddess herself. Thereupon the ‘Deoian’ oak! shivered and 
groaned and blanched, and at the first stroke shed blood. One of 
those present protested: Erysichthon beheaded him on the spot, 
and went on with his impious work. From the stricken trunk was 
heard the voice of the tree-nymph, who, ere she died, prophesied 
the evil end of the Thessalian. The Dryads implored Ceres to 
avenge their sister’s fate. She banished Erysichthon to Scythia, the 
abode of Hunger?. 

It would seem that neither Kallimachos nor Ovid has preserved 
the primitive form of this myth*. In particular, the axe imbedded 
in the sacred tree has been treated as a mere symptom of surprise 
on the part of Erysichthon’s followers, while the perpetual appetite 
of the strong man‘ has been misinterpreted as a punishment for his 
impious action. Such changes are indicative of a romantic and 
moralising age. 


(v) The knife and the sacred oak at Phylake. 


One other example of a weapon fixed in a sacred tree occurs, in 
the myth of Phylakos. It is related as follows by Apollodoros’®. 
Phylakos, the eponym of Phylake in Phthiotis, having learnt that 
Melampous was a excellent seer, asked him to cure the childless 
condition of his son Iphiklos. Melampous sacrificed two bulls, cut 
them limb from limb, and invited the birds to the feast. From a 
vulture that came he learnt the facts of the case. Phylakos had 
once, when gelding rams, laid down his knife covered with blood 
on the severed portions beside Iphiklos*®. The boy being terrified 


1 Jd. 7b. 8. 758 Deoia quercus. 

2 What Kallimachos and Ovid relate of Erysichthon was by others related of Triopas 
himself. Diod. 5.61 says that Triopas, son of Helios and Rhodos, helped the sons of 
Deukalion to drive the Pelasgians out of Thessaly. When he came to divide up the land, 
he laid waste the precinct of Demeter in the plain of Dotion, and used its timber to make 
a palace: hence he was hated by the natives and had to fly the country. He sailed to 
Knidos, and there founded the Triopion. Diodoros adds that some authorities made 
Triopas the son of Poseidon and Kanake (Kallim. 2. Dem. 98 f.), others of Lapithes son 

.of Apollon and Stilbe daughter of Peneios. 

5 On the development of the myth see O. Crusius in Roscher Lex. AZyth. 1. 1373— 
1384 and O. Kern in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enec. vi. 571—574- 

4 Erysichthon occurs as the name of a Giant, probably the adversary of Demeter, on 
the frieze of the great altar at Pergamon (H. Winnefeld in Pergamon iii. 2. 154, M. Frankel 
26. viii. 1. 65 no. 114 ’"Epvolx@wv on a fragment found S.E. of the altar). 

> Apollod. r. 9. 12. Supra p. 452. 

8 rapayevouevou dé alyuriod, mapa Tovrov mavOdver On dre PUaKds more Kprods TEMYW 
ért r&v aldolwy mapa TH "Ipikrw Thy wdyxatpay yuayyuéevynv ert KaréBero, deloavtos dé Tov 
mados Kal puydvTos abOis Kara Tis iepds Spvds a’rhy Erne, xal ravrnv audirpoxdoas 
éxddupey 6 prods. The words émi t&v aldotwy, which R. Hercher would delete, must— 
as the text stands—refer to the genitals of the rams. It is, however, possible that they 
arose from a gloss on rapa 7@ "IpixXw, in which case Apollodoros will agree with schol. 











Axe-blades and axe-hafts in megalithic art 685 


had run away. Phylakos had then thrust the knife back into the 
sacred oak-tree, the bark of which had compassed it about and 
concealed it from view. If Melampous could now find the knife, 
scrape the rust off it, and give it to Iphiklos to drink for ten days 
in succession, Iphiklos would beget a child. Thus instructed by the 
vulture, Melampous found the knife, scraped the rust off it, and for 
ten days in succession gave it to Iphiklos to drink, the result being 
that a son Podarkes was born to him. In this story we may pre- 
sume that the generative power of the rams! passed from them to 
the knife and so to the rust that was put in Iphiklos’ drink®. But 
why was the knife thrust into the sacred oak? Or rather, why was 
it ‘thrust dack’ into the oak? This implies that the gelding knife 
was kept in the tree. It was—we remember—‘ beneath the tall 
oaks’ that Zeus himself gelded Kronos*. Perhaps the idea was that 
a blade so highly charged with procreative force would permanently 
fertilise the sacred oak. If so, we have here another instance of the 
weapon regarded as guasz-male, the tree as guasz-female. 


(¢) Axe-blades and axe-hafts in the megalithic art 
of western Europe. 


The connexion here syggested between weapon and tree, blade 
and haft, is to some extent confirmed by evidence from western 
Europe. As far back as 1867 A. de Longpérier put forward the idea 
that in Gaul there may have been a cult of the axe comparable with 
that of Assyria, Egypt, Karia, Tenedos, and Pagasai*. S. Reinach 
in 1894 grouped together the sacred axes of all ages from the 
quaternary era downwards and regarded them as symbols of the 
lightning-flash®, Lastly, J. Déchelette in his admirable Manuel 
a archéologie®, after a more detailed study of the subject, arrives at 
the following conclusion : 


‘Thus the representations of the axe symbol in prehistoric art offer three 
variants—the hatchet complete, that is to say the blade furnished with its 
handle, the blade alone, and the handle alone. It is impossible for us to deter- 


Theokr. 3. 43—45c p. 129, 24 ff. Wendel ®uddkw tw Tatpl, dd’ od Kal 7 Xwpa Puddxn 
éxanetro, éxréuvoyt (C. F. W. Jacobs adds (@a) 6”Igixdos rats wy mapioraro: dv éxmdngar 
6 marnp OédXwv Hy etxe udxapav els TO TANoov Sévdpov EumAea Wounoe, Kal cvveéBy ETEvEy- 
kelv avira Tots woplors To masdds. k.T.d. (quoted by Eustath. zz Od. p. 1685, 38 ff.). 
Supra i. 429 f., 717, 779- 
Frazer Golden Bough*®: The Magic Art i. 158 f. 
Supra p. 448 n. 1, 7fra Append. G med. 
A. de Longpérier in the Comptes rendus de la seconde session du Congres International 
@’ Anthropologie et d’ Archéologie Préhistoriques Paris 1867 pp. 37—40=G. Schlumberger 
Cuvres de A. de Longpérier Paris 1883 i. 218—221. 

5 S. Reinach Bronzes Figurés de la Gaule Romaine Paris 1894 p. 167. 

8 J. Déechelette Manuel d’archéologie préhistorique Paris 1908 i. 610. 


1 
2 
3 
4 


686  Axe-blades and axe-hafts in the 


mine the symbolic value that should be ascribed to each of these mysterious 
signs ; but the fact that they appear on monuments dedicated to the shades of 
ancestors, in other words, on stones that are sacred, is enough to prove that 
their character is, in the etymological sense of the term, hieroglyphic.’ 

Where Déchelette is negative, it would be rash to be positive. 
But I note, as a point tending to support my interpretation of the 


BS YY , 
(i 















a 















—_—__A 
SSS) 
Mir 
NISC 

Wwe 


c 


fz Vy) 





; pl / 


aye ay le, 
eee An dd 


= 


a ee 
| ier eee 
HANNS 





’ Fig. 625. Fig. 626. 
‘Minoan’ daza, that in the contemporaneous! megalithic art of Gaul 


axe-blade (fig. 625)? and axe-handle (fig. 626)? were regarded as 
distinct entities, which might occur separately as well as in com- 


ee (BT (OG 
* Dictionnaire archéologique de la Gaule, épogue celtigue Paris 1867 pl. 16, 9 (=my 
fig. 625. Scale 35), 1875 p. r10f. from the allée couverte of Gavr’ Inis in the commune of 
Baden (Morbihan), J. Déchelette of. cit. i. 605 f. fig. 241, 608, 7ransactions of the Third 
International Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 194 with fig. 19. Cp. 
M. Hoernes Urgeschichte der bildenden Kunst in Europa Wien 1915 pp. 222 fig. 3, 226. 
For early bronze-age examples from Portugal see P. Paris in the Jahr. d. hats. deutsch. 
arch. Inst. 1910 xxv Arch. Anz. p. 335 f. figs. 28 (a schist slab from Defesa (S. Tiago de 
Cacem) showing in low relief a sword, a club (?), and the head of an axe with recurved 
blade) and 29 (fragment of a similar slab, found near Panoias de Ourique, showing an 
axe-head with recurved blade), J. Déchelette of. czt. 1910 ii. 1. 490 ff. fig. 208 (the slab 
from Defesa), M. Hoernes of. cét.” p. 214 ff. fig. 1 (the slab from Defesa, and two others). 
3 J. Déchelette of. cit. 1908 i. 609 f. fig. 244, 1 (=my fig. 626) after A. de Mortillet 
‘Les figures sculptées sur les monuments mégalithiques de la France’ in the Revwe men- 
suelle de ’ Ecole d’ Anthropologie de Paris 1894 p. 291 fig. 80, Transactions of the Third 
International Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 194 with fig. 20. From 
the dolmen known as La Table des Marchands at Locmariaquer (Morbihan). 


megalithic art of western Europe 687 


bination (fig. 627). If we take into account on the one hand the 
Scandinavian rock-carvings of the Bronze Age, which represent an 




























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































Fig. 628. Fig. 629. 


ithyphallic male bearing an axe (fig. 628), and on the other hand 


1 J. Déchelette of. cit. 1908 i. 606 fig. 242, 1 and 2 (=my fig. 627), 608 after A. de 
Mortillet doc. c2?. p. 300 f. figs. 94 and 95, Transactions of the Third International 
Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 il. 192 with fig. 18. The axes here 
shown are incised on La Table des Marchands at Locmariaquer and on the allée couverte 
of Gavr’ Inis. A photograph of the first is printed by M. Hoernes 0. cit. pp. 223 fig. 2, 226. 

2 O. Montelius The Civilisation of Sweden in Heathen Times trans. F. H. Woods 


688  Axe-blades and axe-hafts in the 


London 1888 p. 54 fig. 53 (=my fig. 628), P. B. du Chaillu 7he Viking Age London 1889 
ii. 131 fig. 906, Forrer Reallex. p. 73 pl. 23, 8 (reversed). From a rock at Simrislund 
(Scania) in S. Sweden. Height of man 1 ft. 6 ins.: length of axe-handle 1 ft. 8 ins.: 
length of axe-head nearly 1 ft. 2 ins. 

The designs hammered on rocks high up in the Italian Maritime Alps, described and 
drawn 22 primis by C. Bicknell (bibliography in J. Déchelette of. czt. 1910 ii. 1. 493 n. 2), 


—~y 





So ge Se eee 
K 
"f 
tf ingot 

goon sh ‘y 

Aj mgt 
peer e 

Ita 





Fig. 630. 


include numerous examples of little men uplifting large axes (éd. 7b. 1910 il. 1. 495 with 
fig. 209, 7—12, M. Hoernes of. cé¢.2 p. 216 with fig. 2 on p. 215). They appear to be the 1 
work of Ligurian hands (G. Dottin Les anciens peuples de l’Europe Paris 1916 p. 187) 
during the earlier part of the Bronze Age (Sir A. J. Evans in Zhe Atheneum Dec. 25, 
1897, p- 890, éd. ‘The European diffusion of pictography and its bearings on the origin of 
script’ in R. R. Marett Anthropology and the Classics Oxford 1908 p. 39 with fig. 20 





ye A, 


megalithic art of western Europe 


689 


(upside down)), and had almost certainly some religious or symbolic value. Figs. 630, 631 


yen! 
Pe eee | | 
iN 


Hl 


; nett 
yuan i, 


Nemec 
ir Hin 


lh 








al oe ee ne eee tlm 
| id PP coer | amen awh tt 
TZ 
wf 
re 
" 
it 


44 


690 The axes of Penelope 


the carved slabs of the same age! from the dolmen of Collorgues in 
Gard, which represent a female bearing an axe-handle (fig. 629)’, 
we may be disposed to allow that blade A/ws handle sometimes 
symbolised the union of male with female—a symbol that probably 
arose in neolithic times®. 


(x) The axes of Penelope. 


If in ‘Minoan’ times the hafted axe thus denoted the union of 
male with female, it is possible that there was some such notion 
underlying the marriage-test proposed by Penelope: 


Behold the dawn comes, dawn of evil name 
That is to take me from Odysseus’ home ; 

For now forthwith a contest will I make, 

To wit the axes, which within his halls 

My lord was wont to set, twelve in a row, 

Like ship-stays, and himself far off would stand 
And send a single arrow through them all. 
Now on the wooers will I lay this task : 

Whoso most easily shall string the bow 

And shoot a shaft through the axes, twelve in all, 
Him will I follow and forsake this house, 
Where I was wed, so fair, so full of wealth, 
That I shall mind me of it even in dreams‘. 


The Odyssey certainly gives no hint that the contest was anything 
more than an athletic competition. Nevertheless, athletic com- 
petitions in Greece were often religious in their origin; and it may 
be that in this feature of the story, as in some others (e.g. the tree-bed 
of Odysseus’), the poet is modernising materials of immemorial — 


antiquity. 


are from C. Bicknell Zhe Prehistoric Rock Engravings in the [talian Maritime Alps 
Bordighera 1902 pp. 41, 73 pl. 7, f (Val Fontanalba), zd. Further Explorations in the 
Regions of the Prehistoric Rock Engravings in the Italian Maritime Alps Bordighera 
1903 pp. 14, 36 pl. 3, 9 (Val Fontanalba}. 

1 So S. Reinach in L’ Anthropologie 1894 v. £2, 1901 xii. 606, 608, cp. E. d’Acy zd. 
Igor xii. 608. But M. Hoernes of. cit.” p. 218 says: ‘aus dem Ende der Steinzeit und 
den friihesten Metallperioden.’ And J. Déchelette of. cit. 1908 1. 587 ff. treats them as 
neolithic. 

2 F. Hermet ‘ Sculptures préhistoriques dans les deux cantons de Saint-Affrique et de 
Saint-Sernin’ in the Mémoires de la Société des Lettres, Sciences et Arts de 1 Aveyron 1892 
xiv. 1—22 with pl., E. Cartailhac ‘La divinité féminine et les sculptures de l’allée couverte 
d’Epéne, Seine-et-Oise’ in Z’ Anthropologie 1894 v. 152f. figs. 7 and 8 (=my fig. 629), 
J. Déchelette of. cz¢. 1908 i. 588 fig. 226, 7 and 8, M. Hoernes of. cét.? p. 217 figs. 7 
and 8. 

3 J.e. when the blade was hafted into the handle, not the handle into the blade. For 
neolithic as opposed to bronze-age haftings see e.g. Forrer Readlex. pls. 21 and 23. 

4 Od. 19. 571—581. 

5 W. Crooke ‘The Wooing of Penelope’ in Fo/k-lore 1898 ix. 131 (‘I may, perhaps, 
hazard the suggestion that in the earlier form of the tale this olive tree was the marriage tree 





The axes of Penelope 691 


The name Penelope or Penelépeia is a legitimate derivative of pené- 
lops*, ‘wild duck’ or ‘goose®.’ According to Didymos Chalkenteros, 
an Alexandrine savant whose life-time covered the beginning of our 
era, Penelope was first called Ameirake or Arnakia, but, when cast 
into the sea by Nauplios in revenge for the fate of his son Palamedes 
and rescued from that predicament by wild ducks, was re-named 
Penelépe*. Others said that her name had been changed from Arnaia‘ 
or Arnea (?)* to Peneldépe because, when flung into the sea by her own 
parents, she was brought safely ashore and restored to them by wild 
ducks. Recent critics, discussing the Penelope of epic and non-epic 
tradition, have resolved her into an Arcadian or Laconian goddess’. 
Thus E. Meyer’, laying stress on the common Greek belief* that she 
was by Hermes the mother of the Arcadian Pan’, concludes that 
originally a goddess (Artemis ?) surnamed Peneldpe gave birth to Pan 
at Mantineia”, where in later days her grave was shown". F.Solmsen” 
too regards it as certain that Penelope was an ancient goddess whose 
home was Arkadia, especially eastern Arkadia, and Lakonike. Here 
in the second millennium B.C., at a time when theriomorphic con- 
ceptions were wide-spread throughout Greece, she took the form of 
the bird penélops. Lastly, J. A. K. Thomson® in his venturesome but 


of the lovers, and that a very primitive and obsolete incident of wedding ritual assumed this 
rather clumsy form in the later recension’). But zd. 7b. p. 131 n. 4 cites J. T. Bent Zhe Cy- 
clades London 1885 p. 22 fora parallel in modern Greece to the bed as described by Homer. 
In Folk-Lore 1906 xvii. 172 f. I have given some examples of life-trees built into castles. 

l A. Fick—F. Bechtel Die griechischen Personennamen* Gottingen 1894 p. 418, F. 
Solmsen ‘Odysseus und Penelope’ in the Zeztschrift fiir vergleichende Sprachforschung 
1909 xlii. 232f. I tentatively advocated this view in the Zransactions of the Third In- 
ternational Congress for the History of Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 194. 

2 On the rnvédoy see D’Arcy W. Thompson 4 Glossary of Greek Birds Oxford 1895 
p- 147f., O. Keller Dze antike Tierwelt Leipzig 1913 il. 234 f. 

% Didymos af. Eustath. 27 Od. p. 1422, 6 ff. and schol. Od. 4. 797. 

4 Tzetz. tw Lyk. Al. 792 (’Apvaia codd.). 

® Schol. Pind. O2. 9. 79 (’'Apvéa codd. B.C.E. ’Apvéay cod. Q. But A. B. Drachmann 
restores Apvata from Tzetz. Joc. cit.). See further J. Schmidt in Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 
1906, K. Tiimpel in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Eunc. i. 1820, ii. 1201—1203. 

6 Nonn. Dion. 14. 92 f. speaks of Nvugys |... yvedomelys (cp. 7d. 24. 87), whom how- 
ever he does not identify with the Homeric heroine. Tzetz. 7 Lyk. Ad. 772 says expressly 
6 Ilav yap ‘Epuod cai Invedorns dds. 

7 E. Meyer ‘Der Ursprung des Odysseusmythus’ in Hermes 1895 xxx. 264. 

8 Hdt. 2. 145. 

9 W. H. Roscher ‘Die Sagen von der Geburt des Pan’ in PAzlologus 1894 lili. 368 ff., 
td. Lex. Myth. iii. 1380. 

0 Apollod. efit. 7. 38. See also W. H. Roscher Lex. Myth. iii. 1354 f., 1357, 1380. 

U Paus. 8. 12. 5 fi. 

2 F. Solmsen in the Zeztschritt fiir vergleichende Sprachforschung 1909 xlii. 233. 

13 J. A. K. Thomson Studies in the Odyssey Oxford 1914 p. 48 ff. This book does not 
deserve all the hard things said of it by a somewhat petulant critic in the Journ. Hell. 
Stud. 1914 Xxxiv. 335. 


44—2 


692 The axes of Penelope 


most suggestive Studies in the Odyssey maintains that Penelope, like 
Artemis Stymphalia', was a local Arcadian ére in the shape of a 
water-fowl, and points out that her other titles Avnakéa, Arnata, 
Arnéa (?) mean ‘She of Arne, the famous spring near Mantineia. 
‘Penelope,’ he says, ‘...was evidently the divine Penelops of Arne?’ 
This is to treat a possibility as a certainty. But the hypothesis itself 
is by no means absurd*. 

In any case the occurrence of a bird-name in connexion with the 
episode of the axes donne a penser. It recalls the birds perched on 
the axes of the sarcophagus from Hagia Triada*, and the bird on the 
axe-cleft tree at Dodona®. S. Wide’, commenting on the complex, 
bird, axe, and tree, surmises that the bronze double axe, or rather its 
prototype the stone axe, belonged by rights to the bird regarded as 
numen of the sacred tree. The woodpecker with his chisel-shaped’ 
beak was actually called pelekds, pelekdn, spélektos, the ‘axe-bird®’ ; 
and many another popular name for him all over Europe bears witness 
to his reputation as a borer and fashioner of timber®. In this respect 
he has for rival the hoopoe, who is described by .R. Lydekker as 
commonly breeding in hollow trees” and hammering on the ground 
at the production of each note". D’Arcy W. Thompson” and Sir 
James Frazer’ remark on the parallelism of these two birds in 
ancient belief. The myth of Tereus the hoopoe has a doublet in that 
of Polytechnos the woodpecker, the former being current on the 
western, the latter on the eastern side of the Aegean. Tereus, king 


1 K. Wernicke in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ii. 13y8 f., O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. iv. 1563. 

2 J. A. K. Thomson of. ct. p. 59, cp. 76. p. viii. 

° Farnell Gk. Hero Cults p. 62 scouts it, but without discussion. 

4 Supra pp. §18, 520. 

5 Supra p. 677. 

6 S. Wide ‘Baum, Vogel und Axt’ in the Sertum philologicum Carolo Ferdinando 
Johansson oblatum Goteborg 1910 pp. 62—69 with 4 figs. I am indebted to Miss Harrison 
for the loan of an offprint of this article. 

7 R. Lydekker The Royal Natural History London 1894-95 iil. 551 ‘The bill in all 
the woodpeckers is strong and chisel-shaped, and is thus admirably adapted for hewing 
holes, and prising off bark to capture insects.’ 

8 D’Arcy W. Thompson 4 Glossary of Greek Birds Oxford 1895 pp. 136, 157. 

9 Extensive collections of woodpecker-names will be found in J. Rendel Harris 
Boanerges Cambridge ty13 pp. 330 ff. (‘Woodpecker place- and person-names’), 416 f. 
(‘Names of the Woodpecker’), za. Picus who ts also Zeus Cambridge 1916 pp. 17 ff. (‘The 
Woodpecker in the British Isles’), 37 ff. (‘The popular names of the Woodpecker’), R. 
Riegler ‘Spechtnamen’ in the Zedtschrift des Vereins fiir Volkskunde 1913 xxiii. 265—277. 

10 R. Lydekker Zhe Royal Natural History London 1895 iv. 57. 

Nl 76. 2b. iv. 59. 

2 D'Arcy W. Thompson 4 Glossary of Greek Birds Oxford 1895 pp. 52, 56f., Class. 
Rev. 1904 xviii. 80. 

13 Frazer Golden Bough*: Balder the Beautiful ii. 7o n. 2. 





The axes of Penelope 693 


of Thrace, armed with a double axe (pélekys), pursued Prokne and 
Philomela till the gods changed them all into birds—Tereus becom- 
ing a hoopoe, Prokne a nightingale, Philomela a swallow. Just so 
Polytechnos of Kolophon, to whom Hephaistos had given a double 
axe (pélekys), pursued Aédon and Chelidonis till Zeus transformed 
the whole family into birds—Polytechnos into a woodpecker ( pele- 
kan), the brother of Aédon into a hoopoe, etc.2 The boast of 
Polytechnos and Aédon that they loved each other more than Zeus 
and Hera suggests that Poljtechnos was originally an epithet of 
Zeus* conceived as a woodpecker*. If so, Teves too may have been 


1 So Apollod. 3. 14. 8. Other.mythographers arm Tereus with a sword (Konon zarr. 
31, Ov. met. 6. 666, 673, Ach. Tat. 5. 3 and 5. 5, schol. Aristoph. av. 212), Aristophanes 
equips him with shield and lance (Aristoph. Zys. 563), and an Apulian vase at Naples 
gives hima couple of spears (Heydemann Vasensamml. Neapel p. 533 f. no. 3233, J. Roulez 
in the Mouv. Ann. 1839 ii. 261 ff. pl. 21 and pl. D, Reinach Rép. Vases i. 239 f., 1, 2). 
F. G. Welcker Die Aeschylische Trilogie Prometheus und die Kabirenwethe zu Lemnos 
Darmstadt 1824 p. 502 n. 796, E. Oder in the Rhetx. Mus. 1888 xliii. 555, and O. Hofer 
in Roscher Lex. JZyth. iii. 2345 n.** take the wéAexus to be a trait borrowed from the 
Asia Minor version. 

2 Ant. Lib. rr (citing Boios épyioyovia). 

3 Cp. the description of the Dodonaean Zeus in Pind. frag. 57 Schroeder ag. Dion 
Chrys. ov. 12 p. 416 Reiske ‘Awdwvaie ueyacbeves | dpiorérexva mdrep.’ odros yap 51 rpOTos 
kal TeNeLoTaTos .Onutoupybs, Xopnyov NaBcov THs abTod Téxvns, ov Thy "Hrelwy wdduw, adda THY 
wacav Tov mavrTos UAnv. S. Wide in the Sertum philologicum Carolo Ferdinando Johansson 
oblatum Goteborg 1910 p. 66 ff. thinks that the priests of Dodona got their name réuapor 
(réuoupor), ‘carpenters,’ from the sacred doves nesting in the hollow oak (‘Es lag ja nahe, 
den in dem heiligen Baume pickenden Vogel Téuapos zu nennen, denn er war ja ein 
Zimmermann mit der Axt, vgl. die modernen Benennungen des Spechtes: Schweiz. Zim- 
mermann, franzos. Volksprache Charpentier, italien. Carpentiere,...u.s.w.’). Téuoupot may 
indeed mean ‘cutters,’ as I conjectured years ago (Class. Rev. 1903 xvii. 180 f.), under- 
standing thereby a clan privileged to cut the sacred oaks; but that they were named after 
a ‘cutter’-dove seems to me improbable. It was the priestesses, not the priests, who, 
according to some, were known as mreAeiddes (svepra i. 443). 

4 The phrase II?kos 6 cai Zevs, to which I drew attention some time since (Class. Rev. 
1903 xvii. 412, Folk-lore 1904 xv. 387), has in sundry quarters faz¢ fortune—see e.g. Miss 
J. E. Harrison in the 7ransactions of the Third International Congress for the History of 
Religions Oxford 1908 ii. 161, W. R. Halliday Greek Divination London 1913 p. 265 n. 
1 with context, and especially the interesting little volume of my friend J. Rendel Harris 
Picus who is also Zeus Cambridge 1916. It seems, therefore, worth while to attempt some 
investigation of its antecedents, a task in which, so far as Byzantine literature is concerned, 
I have had the kind assistance of Prof. J. B. Bury. 

The Weltchronik, as contained in the compilation of Georgios Kedrenos (c. 1100 A.D.), 
is to the following effect (Kedren. Ast. comp. 15 B ff. (i. 28 ff. Bekker), cp. 24. 20 D (i. 37), 
81 D (i. 144)) :—Of the tribe of Sem (Shem) was Chous (Cush) the Aethiopian. He begat 
Nebrod (Nimrod) the founder of Babylon, called also Orion, who was the first to become 
king on earth: he ruled over Assyria and took as title the name of the planet Kronos. 
His wife was Semiramis, called also Rhea. Their children were Pikos, who took the name 
Zeus (IItkos, ds kal uweTwvoudcbn Zev’s), Belos, Ninos, and Hera. Ninos founded Nineui 
(Nineveh) and married his own mother Semiramis. Africanus adds that Kronos had an- 
other son, Aphros the forefather of the Aphroi (Africans), who married Astynome and 
begat Aphrodite. Kronos, expelled from his kingdom by his own son Zeus, went west- 


694 The axes of Penelope 


wards and became ruler of Italy. Then Zeus, quitting Assyria, followed Kronos, who 
yielded to him the kingship of Italy. Having reigned for many years, Zeus died and was 
buried in Crete. Ninos as king of Assyria was succeeded by Thouros, called also Ares. 
The Assyrians changed his name to Baal or Bel, set up a statue of him, and worshipped 
him. After the death of Zeus, Phaunos his son became king and took the name Hermes. 
Aphrodite married Adonis son of Kinyras. Pikos, called also Zeus (IItxov rov xai Ata), was 
king of Assyria for thirty years and then, leaving the throne to his son Belos and to his 
wife and sister Hera, followed his father Kronos, who being old and infirm abdicated in 
his favour. So Pikos reigned in Italy for another sixty-two years. Belos his son was king 
of Assyria for two years. Ninos, the uncle of Belos, reigned for fifty-two years. A descend- 
ant of his was Zoroastres the famous astronomer, who prayed that he might be struck and 
consumed by celestial fire, and bade the Persians venerate his bones on pain of losing their 
empire (szpra p. 35 f.)—a fate which they actually incurred. Ninos the brother of Zeus 
was succeeded as king of Assyria by Thouros, to whom Zamis his father, the brother of 
Rhea, gave the name of the planet Ares. This Ares slew the giant Kaukasos, who came 
from the tribe of Iapheth (Japheth), and passing over into Thrace died and was buried there. 
To him the Assyrians set up the first statue, worshipping him under the name of Baal. 
After him Lamis became king of Assyria, and then Sardanapalos, who was slain by Perseus, 
son of Zeus and Danaé. He transferred the empire from the Assyrians to his namesake 
Persians, over whom he ruled for fifty-three years. It must be borne in mind that this 
Pikos Zeus (IIikos otros 6 Zevs) was the greatest deceiver, charlatan, trickster, and magician 
of the whole human race. From his infancy to his old age—for he lived to be one hundred 
and twenty—he indulged in all manner of abominable sins, seducing no fewer than seventy 
fair maidens by means of mystic apparitions. For all that he persuaded men to regard him as 
a god. Worse still, when he died and was buried in Crete, his relatives, in accordance with 
his own behest, built him a temple and a tomb, on which they inscribed évOdde keira: Oayav 
Ilikos 6 kai Zevs. 
This wild farrago, which implies the genealogy 


Sem 
Chous 
[=e am Ate Sa hae aren 
Nebrod Orion Kronos= Semiramis Rhea Zamis 


ae 7 eae =a ae 
Pikos Zeus= Hera Belos Ninos=Semiramis Rhea Aphros=Astynome Thouros Ares Baal 








| 
Phaunos Belos Aphrodite 


Zoroastres 
and involves obvious inconsistencies (Belos is both son of Kronos and son of Zeus; he is 
also distinguished from Baal or Bel), was taken over by Kedrenos or his immediate source 
(K. Krumbacher Geschichte der byzantinischen Litteratur® Miinchen 1897 p. 369) from 
earlier chroniclers such as Georgios Monachos (s. ix) and Georgios Synkellos (s. viii). 
Souidas (c. 950 A.D.) used a similar source s.v. II#xos 6 xai Zevs, citing the Cretan epitaph 
as évOade Ketrar Bava IfKos 6 Kal Leds (supra i. 158 n. 2)—an itacism which occurs also 
in the narrative of Georg. Monachos chron. 1. 3 (i. 12 de Boor) éxwy 6€ yuvatka Deulpawy, 
Thy Kal ‘Péav kadouuévny mapa’ Accuplo.s, éoxev (sc. Kpévos) viods dt0 kal Ouyarépa play, kal 
Tov pev mpoonydbpevoe Ala els 6voua TOO wavyATo doTépos, Tov dé éruvéuace Nivoy, kai Thy 
Ouyarépa” Hpav, jv kal éhaBev els yuvaixa IlfjKxos (rikos codd. G.H.R. et L.? et sic deinceps 
mixos hic cod. V.) 6 kai Zevs rhy ldlay addedpyy, cp. 2b. 1. 8 (i. 14) Hepoets 6 vios Ijxou rod 
kat Avés. Yet another spelling is found in Synkell. chvon. «71 B (i. 322 f. Dindorf) 67 mpd 
Alvelov a act Ieixoy vidy Kpévov Baciketoa xwpas Aavpévrou Xf'...ueO’ dv Paivoy tov 
viov avrod ILeixov rod Kal Ards érn ud’. Todrov dé pact tives ‘Epuy, x.7.A. and 2, 237 C (i. 
450) Tivés BovAovra Kpdvov mp@rov ABavov kparjoat Tay Kata Ti éorépav ToTwy. wel” dv 
pact Iletkov vidy avrod, rév kai Ala, BaotNedoar: elra Padvoy Ards vid, rov Kal “Epujy: x.7.d. 


Further, the Chronicon Paschale (early in s. vii) 36 a ff. (i. 64 ff. Dindorf) already has the 





The axes of Penelope 695 


whole story, later retailed by Kedrenos, together with the names of one or two authorities, 
viz. 38 B (i. 68) drwa oweypdwaro Deunpdvios 6 BaBvddyios épons and 38c (i. 69) 6 dé 
copwraros Bpotvrrios 6 laropikds Kal xpovoypados é&éBeTo ws 6 avros IItkos 6 kal Zeds x.7-d.: 
in 44 C (i. 80) it gives the epitaph in the form év@dde xetrar Oavioy Iikos 6 kal Leds, dv Kai 
Ala kadodcw. The source of the Chronzcon Paschale was, according to Prof. Bury (but see 
K. Krumbacher of. cit.” p. 337 f.), probably Ioannes Malalas (s. vi). The first book of his 
Xpovoypadia, missing in the unique Oxford manuscript, can be, for our purpose, virtually 
restored from the Exc. Salmasii in Cramer anecd. Paris. ii. 386, 11 ff. and from cod. Paris. 
1630. These passages, printed as Io. Antioch. frag. 3 ff. (Frag. hist. Gr.iv. 541 ff. Miiller), 
contain between them substantially the same account as that of Kedrenos (the only note- 
worthy differences are as follows: Belos is the son of Pikos Zeus by Hera (Io. Antioch. 
frag. 4. 4 in cod. Paris. 1630 é\aBe dé els yuvatca Itkos 6 kal Leds rhv ldiav avrot adehpiy 
Hpay, nv kai ~vylav Néuecw éxddouw twes eixapioroovtes airy ws ayaby Kal duxala. eoxe 
dé €& adrijs 6 IItkos Lets vidv, dv wvduace Bhdovy 61a 7d 6éVTaTov etvac); Aphros and Cheiron 
are the sons of Kronos by Philyra; Zeus is buried at Knossos in Crete (Io. Antioch. frag. 
5 in Exc. Salmasii in Cramer avecd. Paris. ii. 386, 29 ff. 6 dé Zeds ev ry Stor Padvoy rov 
"Eputv yevra, kal Oavdy Oamrera ev Kvdoow ris Kpzrns), where his epitaph runs évéa 
Ketrat Oavew Iikos 6 kat Leds, dv kat Ala kadodor (Io. Antioch. frag. 6. 4 in cod. Paris. 
1630)). The same may be said of the éxAoyh rv XpovixGv dd’ lwavvov ‘Ioropexod in Cramer 
anecd. Paris. ii. 233, 32 ff. (p. 236, 18f. ‘év@dde kardxecrar Itkos 0 kal Leds, dv xal Ala 
kaNovot,’ repl ot cuveypayaro Arddwpos 6 copwraros xpovoypados), and of the éxAoyai ioropiay 
26. ii. 250, 29 ff. (p. 257, 33 ff. Kal Acouplwy, wera Itkov Tov Baothéa Tov mp&ror, ds ev 
Kpyrn arébavev, ds kal rots rére Karpots Zeds werwvoudcdn, x.T-r.). Thus for over half a 
millennium the Byzantine chroniclers had been content to copy almost mechanically the 
traditional lore of their monkish predecessors. Can we get behind their tradition to any 
more authoritative source? 

The Excerpta Latina barbari published by A. Schone in his ed. of Euseb. chron. 
Berolini 1875 i. 174 ff. and, with a Greek retranslation, by C. Frick Chronica minora Lip- 
siae 1892 i. 183 ff. are a rendering into vulgar Latin made by an anonymous Gaul or Frank 
¢. 700 A.D. from a Greek original probably written in Alexandreia soon after 412 A.D. and 
provided with a series of miniature illustrations. F. Jacoby in Pauly—Wissowa Xeal-Enc. 
vi. 1576 concludes that the first section of the Axcerpta (fol. ta—36d), a chronicle running 
from Adam to the death of Kleopatra, represents the Xpovcxa of Hippolytos enlarged and 
interpolated with extracts from the Septuaguint, Sex. Iulius Africanus, the pseudo-Kallis- 
thenes, and the Ravenna annales or consularia [talica. One of these interpolations, derived 
from Sex. Iulius Africanus(?), contains the following passage: fol. 204, 26 ff. unde Picus 
ille Cronu pronepus partibus occasu ipsis temporibus imperauit. Cronus quidem propater 
eius in diuisione terrae fuit occidentales partes tenens- sicut sine urbes et sine reges essent - 
de quo multus est sermo et sine interpraetatione sunt. Post Cronis autem perditionem 
secundum successiores annorum Picus pronepus eius per tempora regnauit in Italia primus. 
quem et Serafin quidam interpraetauerunt. aliiautem Dia Olympium: ceteri autem Plutea 
Aidonium et alii Chthonium Posidona. Istorum autem nominum ei pertinuit pro eo quod 
ille multa potuisset super omnes. Iste autem in Assyrios in iunuentute regnans Ninus ibi 
uocabatur et condidit Niniuem ciuitatem Assyriorum. Uxor autem eius Semimaris mulier 
fuit maligna et praesumens et inpudica. quem Ream uocauerunt. alii autem Iram Zygiam. 
et alii Nemesim multiformem- ceteri autem Ecatin Chtonicam propter innumeram eius 
atrocitatem- Iste quidem relinquens uxori imperium occidentis partibus ueniens imperauit. 
Erant enim omnes partes illas sine urbes et sine regem secundum quod narrat historia. In 
illis uero temporibus Picus Croni pronepus inueniens terram illam spaciosam manentem 
imperauit- in illam annos LXxx- patrias possidens- et illas nobilissimas feminas per magi- 
cas et ingenia maligna conuertens et auortiuos faciebat et sic mulieres quae ab ipso delude- 
bantur domos- et sedes praeparabant ei et scultilia multa multa illi configebant sicut 
placebat eis: et quasi dd eas conmiscuisset et in dm eum esse gloriabantur. 

If this is really an extract from the Xpovoypagia of Sex. Iulius Africanus,—and it must 
be borne in mind that Kedren. Azs¢. comp. 15 D (i. 28 Bekker) definitely cited him (as dé 


696 The axes of Penelope 


’Adpixavds pat, k.7..),—it would seem that the whole story of II?kos 6 cal Zeds was already 
current ¢c. 200 A.D.; for the chronographer, a native of Jerusalem (Zhe Oxyrhynchus 
Papyri London 1903 iii. 36 ff. no. 412, 59 ff.: but see B. P. Grenfell and A.S. Hunt ad oc.), 
is known to have been on intimate terms with Abgar ix of Edessa (179—216 A.D.) and his 
son Mannus (Iul. Afr. ¢act. 29: cp. W. Kroll in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. x. 116). The 
common assumption that Malalas rests largely on Iulius Africanus is contested by K. Krum- 
bacher of. cit.” p. 327, who holds that there were in all probability intervening authors, 
links now lost to us. Nor was Iulius Africanus the staple of the whole chain. For in 
Cramer anecd. Paris. ii. 236, 19 f. (supra p. 695) Diodoros is expressly quoted as a 
source, and the entire context, in which II?kos 6 cai Ze’s, brother of Ninos, is said to have 
reigned 120 years over the west, to have begotten sons and daughters, and to lie buried in 
Crete, is printed by F. Vogel the latest editor (Lipsiae 1890) as Diod. 6. 5. This brings 
us back to a date c. 60 B.c. and to a suitable atmosphere of Euhemerism (supra i. 
662). But even so we have not reached the starting-point. I observe that the Chronicon 
Paschale 38 B (i. 68 Dindorf) cites a certain Leunpdyios 6 BaBvdAdvios Iépons (supra 
p- 695), whose name has been curiously misinterpreted. C. Miiller in the Frag. hist. Gr. 
iv. 492 would turn it into that of the Persian Lepdurns (Plout. veg. et tmperator. apophth. 
172, D). H. Gelzer Sextus Julius Africanus und die byzantinische Chronographie Leipzig 
1880 i. 77 says: ‘Der Name selbst is aber echt assyrisch, er bedeutet einfach ‘der Sume- 
rier.”’ I should rather suppose that Deunpwvios is a blundered form of Leumpuwyeos, z.e. the 
annalist C. Sempronius Tuditanus, consul in 129 B.c., who concerned himself much with 
the primitive history of Italy (Azst. Rom. frag. p. 89 ff. Peter): 6 BaBudwvios Tépons would 
then be an attempt or attempts to make sense of his misspelt name. On this showing the 
story of IItkos 6 xai Zeds may be as early as the second century B.c. 

Further than this we cannot trace it. But C. Trieber in his important article ‘Die Idee 
der vier Weltreiche’ (Hermes 1892 xxvii. 321—344) arrives at the heart of the matter, 
when he points out that, according to a view prevalent in antiquity, the end of the As- 
syrian empire coincided with the beginning of three others—the Medo-Persian, the Mace- 
donian, and the Roman. The chronographer that first brought Rome into this scheme 
(Trieber 7. p. g40n. 2 thinks it was Kastor of Rhodes, whose work J. W. Kubitschek in 
Pauly—Wissowa Real-Znc. x. 2348 dates in 61 B.C.) used Iikos 6 kat Zevs as a tie between 
east and west. His procedure is not easy to explain. IIikos in the west we know: he was 
an ancient Italian power, who appears in tradition sometimes as a bird, the woodpecker, 
sometimes as a god, sometimes as a king (J. B. Carter in Roscher Lex. AZyZh. iii. 2494 ff.). 
But who was II?kos in the east? Pekah king of Israel (c. 735720) is near enough in point 
of date to the foundation of Rome and might, I suppose, be regarded as a vassal of Assyria; 
but he was a monarch of no particular importance. Mr N. McLean, whom I consulted on 
the matter, suggested that IIikos perhaps covers fekha, a Hebrew word for ‘governor’ of 
Assyrian origin. So I applied to my friend Prof. S. Langdon, who kindly sent me the 
following comment (Feb. 24, 1920): ‘The title AzZatz ‘‘ provincial governor,” or originally 
bél pihati “lord of a province,” passed into Hebrew as 3 pécha “‘governor,” and As- 
syrian and Persian governors of Syria were known to the Hebrews under this title. It is 
probable that some governor of the late period at Tarsus or some other city may have 
received apotheosis and identified himself with Zeus. There is no Assyrian king whose 
name is similar to IItkos.’ Prof. Langdon further informs me that ‘The Assyrians and 
Babylonians never deified and worshipped birds,’ and that ‘No bird was ever known 
to have been identified with a king.’ With regard to the woodpecker in Mesopotamia he 
says: ‘The pzlakki of Ishtar[M. Jastrow Dze Religion Babyloniens und Assyriens Giessen 
1912 ii. 2. 802 n. 1] probably is the woodpecker commonly called kuzazu and hanzizitu 
the ‘‘gnawer,” but what Houghton says in PSBA. 1885, 67 [W. Houghton ‘The Birds of 
the Assyrian Monuments and Records’ in the Zransactions of the Society of Biblical Arche- 
ology 1885 viii. 67—70 with 119 f.] is totally erroneous. The “axe of Ishtar” is a poetical 
name for the woodpecker....But otherwise no connection between Ishtar and the wood- 
pecker is known. The bird is described as “green” ina syllabary. It is certain that the 
woodpecker was not a deity, but it may have been the symbol of Ishtar.’ Another possi- 





The axes of Penelope 697 


an appellative of Zeus, who is known to have taken on occasion the 
shape of a hoopoe (éofs)!. Popular etymology, always rife among 
the Greeks and busied with this myth in the fifth century B.C.2, would 
readily equate Zerevs the ‘Watcher®’ with Zeus Epdpszos the ‘Over- 
seer*.’ In reality the Thracian Zerezs correlates with the Phrygian 
Teretve, an epithet of the mother-goddess worshipped on a mountain 
near Lampsakos*®. This tends to confirm our impression that to 
Thracian believers Tereus the hoopoe was in some sense an embodi- 
ment of the father-god. 

Those who see in Odysseus a former fire-god® or sun-god’ and in 
Penelope a divinised duck can at least claim to detect a certain ap- 


bility is mooted by Dr J. Rendel Harris, who in conversation has pointed out to me 
(Feb. 1920) that, since the woodpecker is named Hadad or Heddad the “‘Smith” in north 
Africa (J. Rendel Harris Boanerges Cambridge 1913 p. 394f.), it is tempting to regard 
IItkos 0 cai Zevs as the Greek translation of Hadadrimmon (supra i. 577) and Picus as the 
Italian equivalent of Benhadad (Boanerges p. 36 n. 1). 

In weighing these various hypotheses we must not lose sight of the fact that IItxos 6 kat 
Zevs is consistently said to have been buried in Crete. Now the Idaean Cave has yielded 
a t/mpanon of the ninth or eighth century B.c., which represents the youthful Zeus or 
Zagreus in definitely Assyrian guise (swfra i. 644 ff. pl. xxxv). Moreover, we have seen 
reason to surmise that at Hagéa 7yiada the soul of the prince embodying this deity took 
the form of a jay (g2ca)—a bird whose bright plumage suggested comparison with the wood- 
pecker (fzczs) (supra pp. 522, 523f.). It is, then, conceivable that the phrase IItkos 6 kal 
Zevs finds its ultimate explanation in an actual Cretan cult, and that this cult was known, 
at least by tradition, to the chronographer who first tacked the history of Rome on to that 
of Assyria. When Euelpides in Aristoph. av. 480 spoke of Zeus as ‘soon destined to re- 
store the sceptre to the Woodpecker,’ it was no mere flight of fancy but a genuine piece of 
folk-belief (Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 81, J. Rendel Harris Goanerges Cambridge 1913 pp. 15, 
35 f., 357). A trace of it survives even in the dull catalogue drawn up by Niketas, bishop 
of Serrhai, towards the close of the eleventh century A.D. (Sch6ll—Studemund azecd. i. 
265 "Hrl@era As no. 81 mikov, 266 ’Emidera Aws no. 76 mixov, 274 Niket. rhythm. de 
duodec. deor. epith. 1. x ff. ’Erldera Acds...mikos, 281 f. 1 ’Ewifera Tod Aws...mixos). 

1 Infra Append. M med. 

 Aisch. frag. 304 Nauck?=Soph. frag. 581 Jebb ap. Aristot. ist. an. 9. 49. 6334 
17 ff. (cp. Plin. zaz. hist. 10. 86) rodrov 5° éwémrny érora Tov avrod Kaka | remokl\wKe 
Kamodn\woas éxet | Opacdv merpaiov dpyw év mavtevxia: | x.t.A. A.C. Pearson ad loc., 
following F. G. Welcker Die Griechischen Tragédien Bonn 1839 1. 384, E. Oder in the 
Rhein. Mus. 1888 xliii. 541 ff., Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 92 n. 4, and others, makes out 
a good case for transferring the fragment from Aischylos to Sophokles. 

3 Schol. Aristoph. av. 102 6 Aeyouevos Typeds mapa Td Typetv THY "Id (sic), et. mag. 
P- 757, 45f. Tnpevs: 6 ryp&v ra Hdovny d-yetpar (éyelpac cod. V.) duvdueva kai axpacia 
Hoovev NeMnupévos. Oder loc. cit. p. 553 cp- Ach. Tat. 5. 5 xal 6 Typeds a’rais cuvava- 
Batver, kal dps yiverar’ Kal rypovow ere To mdOous Thy elKova. 

4 Supra i. 737, infra Append. M med. 

5 71. 2. 829 Tnpelns dpos aim’ with Eustath. 2 Z/. p. 356, 11 ff. and especially Strab. 
589 (cp. 565) of 5’ do TerTapdKxovra cradiwy Aaupdxov dexvvover Adpor, €f G Myrpos dear 
iepbv éorw dyrov, Typeins (so A. Koraés for ris peins codd.) émixadovmevov. See further 
Oder oc. czt. p. 552 f. and M. Mayer in Hermes 1892 xxvii. 494 ff. 

6 Supra i. 327 f. 

7 Refuted by J. A. Scott ‘ Odysseus as a Sun God’ in Class. Philol. 1917 xii. 244—252 
(Class. Quart, 1918 xii. 52). 


698 Superstitious practices with axes 


propriateness in this oddly assorted couple; for the solar sign of the 
Lycians was sometimes equipped with the heads of swans or ducks! 
(fig. 632), and the swan (or duck*) was, according to J. Déchelette*, 
‘le principal symbole ou compagnon du soleil pendant la seconde 
moitié de l’age du bronze et au premier age du fer dans |’Europe du 





Fig. 632. 


sud, du centre et du nord.’ Nevertheless it cannot be too strongly 
insisted that, to the Greeks of the classical period, Odysseus and 
Penelope—whatever they may have been in the prehistoric past— 
were simply hero and heroine, and uncommonly human at that. 
After all, this is the secret of their immortality. 


(x) Superstitious practices with axes. 


Those who have weighed the evidence adduced in the course of 
this section (from page 505 onwards) will not hesitate to admit that 
the axe, whether double or single, was over a large part of the 
ancient world recognised as a visible token of the sky-god. Accord- 
ingly it is reasonable to expect that round it would spring up the 
usual crop of rites and ceremonies, which in process of time, obscured 
or misunderstood, would dwindle into a variety of superstitious 
practices. 

Of such we have already noticed some; for instance, the habit 
of wearing axes or axe-shaped pendants, which ran through a 
whole Series of evolutionary forms®. In this connexion I would 
recall a lively little passage in Theophrastos’ description of ‘The 
Complaisant Man’ : 

‘Then when he is asked to dinner he will request the host to send for the 
children; and will say of them, when they come in, that they are as like their 
father as figs; and will draw them towards him, and kiss them, and establish 


them at his side,—playing with some of them, and himself saying “‘Wineskin,” 
“Hatchet,” and permitting others to go to sleep upon him, to his anguish®.’ 


1 Supra i. 300f. fig. 232. 

2 Fig. 632 represents a unique s¢atér of Lykia, which came to me from the Pozzi 
collection (/oz2z Sale Catalogue Genéve 1920 p. 151 (wrongly described) no. 2751 pl. 80). 
The three branches of the Lycian symbol are here terminated by the heads of a cock, a 
swan (or duck), and a griffin respectively. Weight: 9°62 grammes. 

3 Supra p. 648 f. 

4 J. Déchelette Manuel a’ archéologie préhistorique Paris 1910 ii. I. 421. 

> Supra p. 647 ff. 

6 Theophr. char. 5 (=2 Jebb) trans. Sir R. C. Jebb. The new edition, revised by 





Superstitious practices with axes 699 


On this Sir Richard Jebb remarked: ‘Some child’s-game, of which 
nothing is known. It may have consisted, for instance, in one of the 
players bringing down his hand edgewise (“hatchet”) on the other’s 
clenched fist, before he could snatch it away. That the words are not 
names which the guest calls the children—as they have usually been 
explained’—is clear from...the text, which shows that the children 
said them too. Casaubon’s theory that the “wine-skin” and “hatchet” 
were little toys...hung round the children’s necks, which the guest 
takes up and names successively, supposes the children to be in- 
fants.’ The latest editors, J. M. Edmonds and G. E. V. Austen, 
likewise conclude that the words in question ‘refer to some children’s 
game, or possibly to an early lesson in spelling?” More probably 
Casaubon was right in suggesting the amulets hung round the necks 
of children (ferzdéraia)?. The imperial cabinet at Vienna possesses 
a handsome gold necklace to which are attached no fewer than fifty | 
of these charms, including an excellent little hatchet (fig. 633)4. And 
the Museum at Reading has several bronze models of similar shape 
found during the excavations at Silchester (fig. 634)°. Analogous 
examples doubtless exist in other collections. They attest the 
curious fact that the dreaded weapon of the Thunderer can degenerate 
into an infant’s toy without losing all trace of its superhuman quality. 

Pliny® mentions, on the authority of ‘Osthanes’,’ that one species 


Sir J. E. Sandys (London 1909), leaves text, translation, and notes unaltered, so far as 
this passage is concerned. 

1 E.g. by H. G. Liddell—R. Scott 4A Greek-English Lexicon® Oxford 1897 pp. 232 
5.v. aoxés ‘ Punch,’ 1171 5.v. wéXexus ‘a sharp blade.’ 

? Theophr. char. ed. by J. M. Edmonds and G. E. V. Austen London 1904 p. 58. 
They rightly scout the cjj. xackés, ‘little finger,’ and @UNakos, ‘ wallet.’ 

3 On these repiarra or mepidupara see O. Jahn in the Ber. sachs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. 
Phil.-hist. Classe 1855 p. 40 ff. 

4 J. Areth Die antiken Gold- und Silber-monumente des k. k. Miinz- und Antiken- 
Cabinettes in Wien Wien 1850 p. 19 no. 1 pl. 1 (=my fig. 633), E. Fernique in Darem- 
berg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 1561 fig. 2066. This necklace, together with a sumptuous 
gold ézd/a, fourteen gold medallions of various emperors, and other objects of interest, 
was found in 1797 by a couple of Walachian goat-herds at Szilagy-Somlyé6 in Siebenbiirgen 
(Transylvania). Its central pendant is a ball of smoky quartz enclosed by gold bands and 
surmounted by two panthers or tigers on either side of a kratér. 

5 Fig. 634 is from a photograph kindly obtained for me by my friend Prof. P. N. Ure. 
I made a sketch of one of these trinkets many years ago, and mentioned it once as the 
best illustration of the passage in Theophrastos to Sir Richard Jebb. He told me that, 
if he ever brought out a second edition of his commentary, he would consider the point. 

6 Plin. zat. hist. 30. 14. 

7 Plin. zat. Azst. 30. 8 and 11 distinguishes two writers on magic named Osthanes, 
one a contemporary of Xerxes, the other of Alexander the Great. Xanthos the Lydian 
frag. 29 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 44 Miiller) af. Diog. Laert. proovem. 2 ZavOos dé 6 Avdds eis 
Thy Hépkou didBaow awd tod Lwpodorpov éfaxioxihiad pyor (sc. ern yeryovévat), Kal per’ 
avrov yeyovévac modXovs twas Mdyous xara diadoxynv, “Oordvas kat “Aorpauydxous kal 
TwBptas cat Iafdras, wéxpe THs TOv Iepoay im’ ’AreEdvdpov karadvcews was taken by 


700  Superstitious practices with axes 
Souid. s.vv. Mayo, ’Oordvat to imply a succession of Magi called Ostanes: but the plural 
merely meant ‘men like Ostanes’ (R. Kiihner—B. Gerth Ausfiihrliche Grammatik der 


griechischen Sprache*® Hannover—Leipzig 1898 i. 15).. However, the exact number of 
persons named Ostanes is not worth discussing, since very serious doubts have been cast 


\ Le NoRS 
ges ISSs5 —— QP CE TE ae 
4 J Z aaa ae YS 





om, : 
RES 


Cie a 
EEE 
ow 

Y 

gS 


upon his historicity. C. W. Goodwin ‘On the name Astennu’ in the Zeztschrift fir 


dgyptische Sprache und Alterthumskunde 1872 x. 108 f. pointed out that one of the 
appellations of the Egyptian god Thoth was Astennu and asked: ‘Is not the name of 
the Magian Ostanes...a Grecised form of Astennu?’ Sir G. Maspero in the Proceedings 





Superstitious practices with axes 701 


of magic dealt in hatchets (secures). He adds elsewhere! that the 
Magi in their axe-divination (ax7momantza) set fire to a piece of jet 
(lapis Gagates) and, if this was not consumed, announced that the 





Fig. 634. 


wishes of the worshipper would come true. The connexion between 
the axe and the burnt jet is not indicated and leaves room for con- 
jecture®. J. Dalechamps® in 1587 said that the jet was placed ona 
red-hot hatchet—an assertion roundly rebuked by Salmasius* as 


of the Society of Biblical Archeology 1898 xx. 140—144 argues that Awstanou, Ostané 
was, to begin with, one of the cynocephalous deities forming the ogdoad of Hermopolis, 
that he was subsequently confounded with Thoth, that he acquired importance during the 
Ptolemaic period, and that Ostanes the god then gave rise to Ostanes the priest of 
Memphis, who according to Hermetic tradition initiated Demokritos of Abdera into the 
mysteries (Synes. ad Dioscorum comment. in Democr. in M. Berthelot Collection des 
anciens alchimistes grecs Paris 1888 Texte grec p. 57, 7 ff. =H. Diels Die Fragmente der 
Vorsokratiker® Berlin 1912 ii. 130f.). Maspero further contends that ‘ Ostanés devient un 
Perse par la vertu de son nom, et par suite un mage, un chaldéen, d’ou la variante qui lui 
donne une origine babylonienne.’ F. Granger in 7he Journal of Theological Studies 1904 
v. 398f. carries the matter from Greece into Italy and makes it probable ‘that Pliny 
depends upon Democritus for his mention of Ostanes.’ 

1 Plin. zat. hist. 36. 142. 

2 On the virtues of jet in general see G. F. Kunz The Curious Lore of Precious Stones 
Philadelphia & London 1913 pp. 91 f., 263 f., zd. The Magic of Jewels and Charms 
Philadelphia & London 1915 pp. 146 f., 352, 386. Burnt jet in particular had prophy- 
lactic, curative, and detective powers (Plin. zat. hist. 36. 141 f. Gagates lapis...cum 
uritur, odorem sulpureum reddit...fugat serpentes (cp. Nik. ¢her. 37 with schol. ad oc.) 
ita recreatque volvae strangulationes. deprendit sonticum morbum et virginitatem suffitus). 

3 On Plin. vat. hist. 36. 142: ‘Axinomantiam. Ea fit gagati imposito securi candenti.’ 
See also M. Delrio cited zzfra p. 702 n. 4. 

4 C. Salmasius Plinianae exercitationes in Caii [ulit Solint Polyhistora Parisiis 1629 
i. 252 Ef. (‘scribe: 27 eam quam vocant causimomantiam’). 


702  Superstitious practices with axes 


ridiculum, but not half so ‘ridiculous’ as that eminent scholar sup- 
posed; for in East Prussia it is still customary for the midwife to put 
red-hot coals on an axe and to step across it with the infant in her 
arms'. This, however, is a case of prophylaxis, not of divination. 
Axinomancy, strictly so called, has varied somewhat in its modus 
operandi. A hatchet suspended by a cord was used to detect criminals 
or discover secrets: it twisted and turned in answer to relevant 
questions*. Again, a hatchet poised in equilibrium on a pole was 
believed to bob at the name of the guilty party®. Lastly, a hatchet 
stuck in a pole and carefully balanced would turn or nod as soon as 
the right name in the list was reached‘. These methods, detailed by 


1S. Seligmann Der bose Blick und Verwandtes Berlin 1910 ii. 17. 

2 J. J. Boissardus De divinatione & magicis prestigiis Oppenheimii s. a. [161-] p. 18: 
‘Axinomantia eadem perficit (sc. detects criminals or secrets) ex securi suspensa funiculo, 
quz ad interrogata movetur & in gyrum vertitur,’ E. B. Tylor in The Encyclopedia 
Britannica Cambridge 1911 xx. 173 s.v. ‘Ordeal’: ‘When a suspended hatchet was 
used in the same way (sc. as a sieve) to turn to the guilty, the process was called axzzo- 
mancy.” ? 

3 J. Potter Archeologia Greca’ London 1751 i. 352: ‘Agwouavreia, from Aéivy, i.e. an 
Ax or Hatchet, which they fixed so exactly upon a round Stake, that neither End might 
out-poise, or weigh down the other; then they pray’d, and repeated the Names of those 
they suspected; and the Person, at whose Name the Hatchet made any the least Motion, 
was found guilty.’ 

J. Tuchmann in Jé/usine 1888—8g iv. 285 (followed by E. Riess in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. ii. 2627) mentions, among other means of discovering witchcraft, both these 
forms of axinomancy : ‘On suspendait une hache a une corde ou on la posait, le manche 
en lair, en équilibre sur un pieu. Aprés la récitation de certaines formules, on tournait 
autour de la corde ou du pieu en pronongant a haute voix le nom de toutes les personnes 
soupconnées: la hache, dans le premier cas, tournait ; dans le second, elle tombait.’ 

4 C. Peucerus Commentarius, de praecipuis divinationum generibus Francofurti 1593 
p- 321: ‘ Kooxwowavteia & aiwouarteig, divinatione ex cribro et securi, ad pervestigandos 
atque aperiendos occultos scelerum authores, & res alias obscuras explorandas ac pro- 
ferendas, incantatores utuntur. Hanc securi expediunt, rotundo palo infixa, aptataq; ad 
normam ac perpendiculum, & cum przfatione, ordine enumeratis nominibus eorum, qui 
in suspicione herent: ad cuius se mentionem securis, vel levi impulsu circumagit aut 
nutat, eum culpz reum peragunt. Illam’ etc., M. Delrio Dzsguisttionum Magicarum 
libri sex Lugduni 1612 p. 2454 D: ‘Decima ad eundem usum erat déiwvouavrela, qua 
securim rotundo infigebant palo, & ex eius motu furem deprehendebant. Quando autem 
successtis futuri divinatio petebatur, tiic gagatem lapidem securi imponebant, ut Plinius® 
(slib. 36. c. 19) refert,’ J. Praetorius De Cosctnomantia, Oder vom Sieb-Latiffe diatribe 
curiosa Curiz Variscorum 1677 A2 ‘ex D. Davide Herlicié, (Stetinens. 1602.) lib. 1. orat. 
Gryphiswald. lit. .... Huic similis est déwouavrela, que Securit rotundo polo [séc] infixa 
perficitur: sicut e6 mod6 apud AHomerum produntur proci Penelopes,’ 26. E 2 ‘Dn. 
Meisnerus Phil. sobr. p. 2. 1. 2. c. 3. q. 1. Descriptionem déiwvouayrelas non tam commode 
hic subjungit : ubi seczrzs cylindraceo infigitur palo, adque normam aptatur ; ut ille sons 
censeatur, cujus ad nomen se circumegerit,’ A. Bouché-Leclercq Histoire de la divination 
dans l’antiguité Paris 1879 i. 183: ‘Les vibrations ou oscillations d’une hache plantee 
dans un poteau constituaient la matiére de laxznomancie (aéwouarrela), divination im- 
portée en Europe par les mages orientaux? (*PLIN., XXX, I, 14 ; XXXVI, 19, 34).’ So also 
W. Vollmer—W. Binder Worterbuch der Mythologie aller Volker® Stuttgart 1874 p. 86, 
C. Kiesewetter Die Geheimwissenschajten Leipzig 1895 p. 375+ 








Superstitious practices with axes 703 


writers of the sixteenth century and later, have doubtless a long 
history behind them ; and it is possible that Philon was thinking of 
the first when, instead of the sword of Damokles, he described ‘a 
whetted axe hung by a slender cord.’ 

Axe-superstitions are with us still, P. Sébillot in his o/k-Lore 
de France remarks that prehistoric stone implements are commonly 
supposed to act asa safeguard against a thunderstorm. Their efficacy 


1 Philon ap. Euseb. praep. ev. 8. 14. 29. 

2 My friend and colleague Prof. R. H. Kennett draws attention to one curious case: 
‘It was formerly the custom, if an offence were committed in the neighbourhood of 
Fordwich near Canterbury, to decide where the offender should be tried as follows. If a 
man from a boat in the middle of the river Stour could throw an axe weighing seven 
pounds beyond the place where the offence was committed, the offender was tried, and, 
if found guilty, punished at Fordwich’ (R. H. Kennett—Mrs Adam—H. M. Gwatkin 
Early Ideals of Righteousness Edinburgh 1g1o p. 11 f.). Prof. Kennett adds that he 
remembers to have heard his father mention the custom, which is duly noted both in 
king Cnut’s grant of the Port of Sandwich to Christ Church Canterbury in 1023 A.D. 
(W. A. Scott Robertson ‘ Archeological Notes on Thanet’ in Arvcheologia Cantiana 
1878 xii. 339) and in a description of the Boundaries of the Liberty of Fordwich in 
1272 A.D. (C. Eveleigh Woodruff ‘ Fordwich Municipal Records’ 26. 1889 xviii. 92 n. + 
‘as far as a man being in a boat at Azgh water can throw an axe of seven pounds weight, 
called a taper-axe, on to the land’). Cp. the throwing of a hammer, which in old German 
law ratified the acquisition of property (J. Grimm Zeutonzc Mythology trans. J. S. Stally- 
brass London 1882 i. 180 n. 3). 

I append an even more suggestive usage from A Guide to Criccieth & Pwltheli 
published by Messrs Abel Heywood & Son of Manchester: p. 6 ‘After the subjugation 
of Wales, the constable appointed for Criccieth Castle was William de Leybourne,... 
This charge was afterwards given to Sir Hywel-y-Vwyall (Sir Howell of the Axe) by 
Edward the Black Prince, for his valour at Poictiers. According to the Welsh bards this 
redoubtable knight was the person who took the French King John prisoner at Poictiers,... 
A pole-axe formed part of the escutcheon of Sir Hywel in commemoration of his doughty 
deeds in that battle, which he had performed entirely with that weapon, and in perpetual 
memory of his services it was ordained that a mess of meat should be laid before the pole- 
axe every day, guarded by eight yeomen, and afterwards given to the poor. This cere- 
monial lasted till the time of Queen Elizabeth, when it became obsolete.’ 

Finally, Sir G. L. Gomme Folklore as an historical science London 1908 pp. 66—78 
collects from the Germanic area much evidence tending to prove that it was formerly 
(in pre-Celtic times?) the custom to kill off the aged and infirm by means of a club or 
mallet (e.g. J. Aubrey Remaztnes of Gentilisme and Judaisme 1686—87 (London 1881) 
p- 1g: ‘An old Countrie Story’...‘The Holy-mawle, w (they fancy) hung behind the 
Church dore, w°" when the father was seaventie the sonne might fetch, to knock his 
father in the head, as effoete, & of no more use.’ Cp. 2d. p. 127). Sir G. L. Gomme 
analyses a Gaelic folk-tale, which involves this #o¢z/, and notes that such mallets are still 
preserved at Osnabriick and in several towns of Silesia and Saxony. Mrs E. M. Leather 
The Folk-Lore of Herefordshire Hereford 1912 p. 171 f. with pl. adds a parallel from the 
Bargates, Leominster, where four small almshouses, founded in 1736 and since rebuilt, 
are adorned with ‘a figure of a man, very quaint and rudely carved, holding an axe in his 
hand with these lines beneath :—‘‘ He that gives away all before he is dead, | Let ’em 
take this hatchet and knock him on ye head.” ’ The rhyme is but the English form of 
that on the German mallet: ‘ Wer den Kindern gibt das Brod | Und selber dabei leidet 
Noth | Den schlagt mit dieser Keule todt’ (W. J. Thoms in the Gentleman’s Magazine 
1850 i. 250—252). 


704 The spear of Zeus 


is sometimes increased by the addition of a sort of prayer. Thus near 
Dinan as late as the year 1880 many people would carry a thunder- 
stone in their pocket during stormy weather and, if thunder were 
heard, would say: . 
Pierre, pierre, 
Garde-moi du tonnerre. 


Sébillot shows further that this ré/e of acting as a lightning-rod 
passed from the neolithic celt to the iron axe: 


Among the Basques, when a storm bursts, the best preservative is to place 
some cutting instrument, axe or scythe, outside the house with its edge turned 
to the sky. Peasants on the farms near Beuvray in Sadne-et-Loire, as soon as 
they hear the first rumblings of thunder and feel the first drops of rain, bring out 
into the yard and set up near the threshold of their house an iron axe, with its 
handle against the ground and its blade uppermost, to preserve the place from 
lightning and hail. This custom is half-Christianised in the district of Saint- 
Gaudens in Haute-Garonne, where an iron axe, blade in air, is put in a plate 
containing holy water?. 


We come back, then, at length to the point from which we started?, 
viz. the primitive belief that the thunderbolt falls in the form of an 
axe. By an axe therefore, according to the homceopathic principle 
of early thought, it must be averted. 


ii. The spear of Zeus. 


Lightning was sometimes, though not often, regarded by the 
ancient Greeks as the spear of Zeus. Pindar, ever on the look out 
for an effective epithet, coined a fine sonorous compound exchet- 
kéraunos to describe Zeus, ‘whose spear is the lightning*.’ Bakchylides 
has the rival formation keraunenchés, Zeus ‘whose lightning is his 
spear‘. Aristophanes greets the lightning as 

Immortal fiery spear of Zeus, 


and an Apolline oracle quoted by Eusebios from Porphyrios calls 


it the 
descending spear of Zeus®. 


1 P. Sébillot Ze Folk-Lore de France Paris 1904 i. 104f. Cp. Geopon. 7. 11 (Zoro- 
astres) oldnpos rols madmace Tay lOwy emiTiOéwevos amepiKer Thy amo T&v Bpovray Kai 
aoTpaTa@v BhaBnv. 

2 Supra p. 505. 

3 Pind. O2. 13. 77 Znvos éyxecxepavvov with schol., Pyth. 4. 194 marép Ovpanday 
éyxetxépauvov Zijva with schol., Eustath. iz //. p. 839, 9 ff. obrw Kal 6 Zeds viv eer 
aTepomny mera xepol (7, 11. 184) Kaba Kal Te Bédos: @ Adyw Kal eyxeELKépavvoy avrdov 7 
Aupixh Modo xade?, ws ofa Kal Sdpare xpwmevov air@, Kaba Sndot cal 6 Ppdoas bre évaryKo.- 
vetrat 6 Leds kepavvoy ws év oxnware alxunrod modeunoelovros. Lufra p. 705 0. 4. 

4 Bakchyl. 7. 48 Jebb & Led xepavveyxés. 

5 Aristoph. av. 1750f. & méya xpiceov dorepomas pdos, | @ Avs duBporov éyxos 
muppopov, | K.T.A. 

6 Porph. af. Euseb. graep. ev. 6. 3. 1 (Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 6. 146. 12) cited 
Supra p. 140. II. 





The spear of Zeus 705 


Nonnos in the fifth century of our era makes Nike pray to Zeus 
as follows: 
Do thou in battle lift 
Thy ence -flash, Olympos’ luminous spear}. 


Accordingly, when Zeus meets Typhon, 
in the fray 
His shield was thunder and his corselet cloud, 
The spear he shook was lightning ?. 


And elsewhere in the same poem Zeus is termed 
The javelin-thrower of the thunderbolt?. 


It is probable that the poets were but adopting a popular belief; for 
Eustathios in the middle ages explained that ‘Zeus has a fiery spear+,’ 
and the modern Greek sailor with his eye on the storm-cloud will say 
‘God is throwing lightning like spear-strokes*”’ 

The axe-bearing Zeus of Karia is not unfrequently represented 
with a spear®. And, since he was worshipped as S¢rdtzos, ‘Lord of 
Hosts’, this weapon might no doubt be explained as an indispens- 
able part of his panoply. Nevertheless it is probable that the old 
storm-god became the new war-god just because his thunderbolt was 
conceived as a potent weapon, first a double axe and then a spear 
or sword’, 

At Hydisos in Karia Zeus Aveos, the ‘Warlike, appears on a 
bronze coin struck by Hadrian (fig. 635)° as a soldier with helmet 
and shield, though he still brandishes a thunderbolt in his raised right 
hand. Bronze coins of the same town dating from the first century 


1 Nonn. Dizon. 2. 211 f. wapvduevos 6é | doreporny xovpive cedaspdpov &yxos ‘ONUprrov. 
Conversely 7. 47. 609 ff. Hera hurls at Dionysos a spear, doreporfjs ulunua, Oedoourov 
adbpevor trip |... ceMacPbpov aiPora Noyxnv. 

2 Nonn. Dioz. 
Owpyé, | kal orepomhv Odpu made, K.T.X. 

3 Nonn. Dion. 7. 163 Znvi...dkovticr Ape Kepavvod. 

* Eustath. 2 //. p. 1240, 51 f. cal Leds d€ mbpwov exer Sdpv, Tovréstw &yxos. €& ov 
kal éyxetxépauvos mapa Ilwddpw Néyerat. 

° B. Schmidt Das Volksleben der Neugriechen Leipzig 1871 i. 32 6 Beds plarrec (more 
often pixver) dorparals ody Kovrapials. 

° Supra pp. 574 ff, 593. ” Supra pp. 576 ff., 590 f. 

8 Supra p. 591 n. 1, enfra p. 712 ff. 

9 D. Sestini Lettere e dissertaziont numismatiche Firenze 1818 v. 44, 1820 ix pl. 3, 11, 
7d. Classes generales seu Moneta vetus urbium populorum et regum F lorentiae 1821 p. 88, 
F. Streber in the 4é/. d. bayer. Akad. 1835 Philos.-philol. Classe pp. 232—239 pl. 4, 5, 
T. Panofka in the Adz. d. berl. Akad. 1853 Phil.-hist. Classe pp. 32—42 (‘Zeus Areios’) 
pl. 1—2, 2, Miiller—Wieseler Dexkm. d. alt. Kunst ii. 11 pl. 2, 21, Overbeck Gr. Kumst- 
myth. Zeus pp. 208—210 Miinztaf. 3, 11 (=my fig. 635), Head Aust. num.” p. 620. 
Sestini Joce. citt. read IACCEQ@N, Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. iii. 353 no. 291 
IACEOON, Streber Zoc. cit. IAICEQN, Panofka Joc. cit. IACEQXLN, Wieseler Joc. cit. 
IAICEWN (for IACCEWN), Overbeck Joc. cit. IAICEQ.N. B. V. Head was the 


first to transfer the coin from Iasos to Hydisos. 


Colts 45 


vépos O€ ot ém\eTo 





706 The spear of Zeus 


B.C. show him as he rests upon a spear (fig. 636)!, while others give 
only the helmeted head (fig. 637)? or bust® of this martial deity. 
Whether the Zeus 4 veios, before whom at Passaron in Molossis the 
kings and people of Epeiros plighted their troth*, was a form of the 
ancient Epeirote thunder-god we cannot definitely assert ; but it is 
likely enough. Again, the altar at Olympia, on which Oinomaos 





Fig. 636. 


used to sacrifice to Zeus Avezos*, may have stood in some relation to 
the altar of Zeus Kerazinzos adjoining the foundations of Oinomaos’ 
house’. Be that as it may, the title Aveos was remembered for many 
centuries as one appropriate to the sky-god’; and Zeus Aveios was 
apparently Latinised as Iupiter MW/c/itaris*. 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 122 pl. 20, 12, W. Wroth in the Mum. Chron. 
Third Series 1896 xvi. 95 f. pl. 7, 12 (=my fig. 636), Imhoof—Blumer A7eznas. Miinzen 
i. 134, Head Hist. num.” p. 620. 

2 Imhoof—Blumer Kvecnas. Miinzen i. 134 no. 1 pl. 5, 7 (=my fig. 637), Head “st. 
num.” p. 620. 

3 Imhoof—Blumer of. c7t. i. 134 no. 2, Head Ast. num." p. 620. 

4 Plout. v. Pyrrh. 5 elwbeav ot Barrels &v Iaccapiu, xwplw ris Modorridos, ’Apelw 
Ad Oicavres Opkwuoreiv Trois “Hreipwras Kal dpkifew, avrol uev dptew Kara Tovs vouous, 
éxelvous 6€ THv Bacirelav Suaduddéew Kara Tovs vouous. 

© Paus. 5. 14.6 rod 6€ “Hgaicrov Tov Bwudy elow ’Hrelwy ot dvoudfovow ’Apetou Ards. 
Aéyovar 6€ of abrol ovTa Kal ws Oivduaos él TOD Bwuod TovTou Bio. TH Apelw Aci, dmdre TOV 
‘Inrodauelas pvnorhpwv Kabiocracbar uéddor Tul és immwy auiAdavy. This altar of Zeus 
*Apecos explains the varying tradition that Oinomaos sacrificed on such occasions to Zeus 
(Diod. 4. 73: supra i. 36 ff., 407 ff.) or to Ares (Philostr. min. zmage. 9. 5). But the 
presence of Hephaistos at Olympia is unexpected, and his relation to Zeus “Apecos very 
problematic (cp. C. Robert in Hermes 1888 xxiii. 430 with n. 2). The coin which 
T. Panofka in the Adh. d. berl. Akad. 1853 Phil.-hist. Classe p. 34 pl. 1—2, 3 takes to 
be a copper of Elis with oév. head of Hephaistos or Zeus “Apecos, vev. thunderbolt in 
wreath of wild olive, is a common mintage of Ithake (rzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus 
p- 105 pl. 21, g) showing the head of Odysseus but lacking the legend [I6A]! Equally 
unconvincing is the conjecture of Welcker Gr. Gé¢éer/. ii. 211 n. 127 that the altar was 
adorned with a relief representing the head of Hephaistos, whose cap was compared with 
the helmet of Zeus “Apevos. There is more to be said for the view advanced by F. Streber 
in the Aédh. d. bayer. Akad. 1835 Philos.-philol. Classe p. 234, viz. that the archaic 
helmeted figure standing beside the enthroned Hera in the Heraion at Olympia (Paus. 5. 
17. I) was none other than Zeus "Apevos. But even this is far from certain. 

6 Paus. 5. 14. 7 cited znfra § 3 (c) iv (e). 

7 Scholl—Studemund anecd. i. 264 ’Emifera Acés no. 15 apelov, 266 "Ewidera Acés 
no. 14 dpelov. See further O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Xeal-Luc. ii. 624. 

© Apul. de mundo 37 (Iupiter) est Militaris et Triumphator et Propagator, Tropaeo- . 





The spear of Zeus 707 


Zeus Areios is hardly to be separated from Zeus Strategés who, 
together with Hera, is mentioned in an inscription of 69 A.D. as the 
patron deity of Amastris in Paphlagonia!, Quasz-autonomous coppers 
of the town, issued in early imperial times, exhibit his bust with a 
remarkable tress of wavy hair above the forehead (fig. 638)” On 
coppers struck by Antoninus Pius he stands in a statuesque pose, his 





Fig. 640. Fig. 641. 


left hand swathed in an ample Azétzon, his right holding a spear, 
and an eagle at his feet (fig. 639)’. Other pieces struck by the same 
emperor show him grouped with his consort, the sceptre-bearing 
Hera (fig. 640)4,—a type repeated in inferior style by Tranquillina 
(fig.641)°. It is probable that Zeus Ozivzos, whose sanctuary stood on 
the eastern side of the Thracian Bosporos', was a god of like aspect. 


phorus; et multo plura eiusmodi apud haruspices et Romanos veteres inveneris. The 
passage is thus printed by G. F. Hildebrand (ed. min. 1843). 
But for Propagator (E. Aust in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ii. 746, 
751, supra i. 552 n. 1 (?)) I should read Propugnator (E. Aust 
loc. cit. il. 751), thereby obtaining an unbroken series of 
military titles. On imperial coins with the legends 10vI 
PROPVGNATORI (or PROPVGNAT) and IOVIS PROPVGNATOR 
see Rasche Lex. Mum. iv. 921, Suppl. iii. 156 f., 162. 
I figure a ‘first brass,’ struck by Alexander Severus, from my 
collection. 

1G. Hirschfeld in the Sztzungsber. d. Akad. d. Wiss. 
Berlin 1888 p. 876f. no. 27, R. Cagnat—G. Lafaye Jzscrip- 
tiones Graecae ad res Romanas pertinentes Paris 1906 iii. 32 no. 89 0 djwos | waprupec 
Ilapuevic[k]w | kat Papvdxy,.....kal | exerae Ad Urparny@ | cal "Hpa, rots warpious Gelots 
kal mpoecT@(c)w rhs | médews,..... | €rous BAp’ (sc. 132 of the Pompeian era=69 A.D.). 

2 Waddington—Babelon—Reinach Monn. gr. d’ As. Min. i. 138 f. no. 31 pl. 18, 23, 
no. 32 pl. 18, 24, no. 33 pl. 18, 25 (=my fig. 638), no. 34 pl. 18, 26, no. 35 pl. 18, 
27, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Pontus, etc. p. 85 pl. 20, 1 f., Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus 
p. 223 Miinztaf. 3, 21, Head Azst. num.” p. 506. 

® Waddington—Babelon—Reinach of. cit. i. 142 no. 61 pl. 19, 15 (=my fig. 639), 
W. Abeken in the Azz. d. Just. 1839 xi. 64 pl. A, 2, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus 
pp- 134, 164, 223 Miinztaf. 2, 27, Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke Amt. Denkm. i. 98 f. 
pl. 9, 29. 

1 Waddington Beneimeeninagl op. cit. i. 142 no. 62 pl. 19, 16 (=my fig. 640) 
double-struck. 

5 Waddington—Babelon—Reinach of. cé¢. i. 156 no. 174 pl. 21, 20 (=my fig. 641). 

5 Infra § 7 (c). 





45—2 


708 The spear of Zeus 


For a similar figure on a silver dekdlitron of Syracuse (215—212 B.C.) 
(fig. 643) almost certainly—as W. Abeken argued!—represents the 
famous statue of Zeus Ozirios? carried off from that city by Verres 
and known to the Romans as Iupiter /perator*, a manifest transla- 
tion of Zeus Strategés. 

The transition from storm-god to war-god may likewise be 
suspected in the case of that imperial favourite lupiter Vzctor*, whose 


Sire 20000 


es 





figure—again with spear reversed—on ‘bronze coins and medallions 
of Claudius ii Gothicus (268—270 A.D.) is no doubt merely a religious 
expression for the victorious emperor himself (fig. 644)’. 

Other and less sophisticated examples of Zeus with spear in hand 
occur here and there among the Greek coins of south Italy, the 
Etruscan mirrors, the Gallo-Roman statuettes, and the Roman lamps. 

Coppers of Petelia in Bruttium struck in the third century B.C. 


1 W. Abeken in the Azm. d. /nst. 1839 xi. 63 pl. A, I. 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Sicily p. 224 no. 661 fig. (=my fig. 643), G. F. Hill Coins 
of Ancient Sicily London 1903 p. 196 fig. 68, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 131, 
164, 220f. Miinztaf. 2, 25, Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke Ant. Denkm. i. 97 pl. 9, 24 
(comparing L. Miiller Veemdsmatique de l’ancienne Afrique Copenhague 1860 i. 50 no. 193 
fig. a gold coin of Kyrene). 

* Infra §7 (c). 

4 Preller—Jordan Rim. Myth.? i. 197 ff., Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rim.” pp. 123, 139 f. 

5 Cohen Monn. emp. rom. vi. 142 nos. 127 and 128 fig., Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. 
Zeus p. 165 f. Miinztaf. 2, 35 (=my fig. 644), Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke Ant. Denkm. 
i. 97 pl. 9, 25, Gnecchi Medagl. Rom. iii. 63 no. g pl. 156, 1 (‘col fulmine e lo scettro’). 
For other numismatic types of Iupiter Victor see Rasche Lex. Num. iv. 896 ff., 1225, 
1228, Suppl. iil. 158, 275, Stevenson—Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. 
Coins p. 484. 

Iupiter Stazor (on whom see E. Aust in Roscher Lex. Jyh. ii. 
682—686, 758, H. Jordan—C. Huelsen Zopographie der Stadt Rom 
zm Alterthum Berlin 1907 1. 3. 20—23, Wissowa Rel. Kilt. Rim? 
p- 122 f.) appears on Roman coins from Antoninus Pius to Caransius 
(Rasche Lex. Mum. iv. 921, Suppl. iii. 157, 162, Stevenson— 
Smith—Madden Dict. Rom. Coins p. 484 fig.) usually as a nude 

Fig. 646. figure standing erect with a spear (sceptre ?) in one hand, a thunder- 

bolt in the other (fig. 646 is from a silver coin of Gordianus Pius in 

my collection). His title was Grecised as Erjavos (Plout. v. Céc. 16 els 7d TOO Xrynotov Ards 

iepdv, dv Zrdropa ‘Pwuato kadovow) or “Emiordovos (Plout. v. Rom. 18 éorycay odv mparov 

00 viv 6 Tod Ads Tod Zrdropos tpurar vews, dv “Emiocrdovov dy tis Epunvetoerev) or, less 
accurately, as "Op@wav0s (Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 2. 50 quoted supra p. 422 n. f). 











Plate XXIX 





Etruscan mirror: the birth of Athena. 


See page 709 ff. 





The spear of Zeus 709 


sometimes show a naked Zeus advancing with thunderbolt and 
spear (fig. 645)!. The earliest specimen, however, gives him a long 
sceptre (fig. 647)? and most of the later specimens a short headless 
spear or sceptre (fig. 648)*—a type found also on the third-century 
federal coppers of the Bruttians (fig. 649)* and Lucanians (fig. 650)°. 

A magnificent mirror from Arezzo, now in the Museum at 
Bologna’, represents (pl. xxix) the birth of Athena from the head 





Fig. 649. 
of Zeus (Z7zua)’. The god is seated upon the clouds of heaven, 
holding a leaf-shaped lance in his right hand and a sceptre in his 
left. Two goddesses occupy the place and perform the duty of the 
Eileithyiai. They are named 7halna and Thanr* respectively. The 
former clasps Zeus about the waist. The latter makes magic passes 
over his head, from which emerges the diminutive figure of Athena 
in full armour. Hephaistos, here called Seth/ans*, who has cleft the 


! Garrucci Mon. Zt. ant. p. 157 pl. 112, 1 (=my fig. 645) describes this very obvious 
spear as a ‘scettro.’ If his illustration is right, his text is wrong. 

* I am indebted to my friend Mr C. T. Seltman for the example of series A here 
illustrated (fig. 647). 

3 Garrucci of. czt. p. 157 pl. 112, 9 (‘con lo scettro nella sin.’), Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins 
Italy p. 371 f. nos. 1 (‘holding sceptre’) and 5—8 (‘holding sceptre’), Antex Cat. Coins 
i. 139 nos. 1—3 (‘holding sceptre in 1.’), Head Hist. num.? p. 107. Fig. 648 is from a 
coin in my collection. 

* Garrucci of. cit. p. 184 pl. 124, 23 (=my fig. 649) and 24 (‘con iscettro nella sin.’), 
brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Italy p. 330 f. nos. 93—98 (‘sceptre in extended 1.’), Hunter Cat. 
Coins i. 124 no. 55 pl. g, 5 and nos. 56—61 (‘spear in extended 1.’), Head Hest. num.” p. 92. 

° Garrucci of. cit. p. 182 pl. 123, 27, 28, 29 (=my fig. 650) (‘con scettro nella sin.’), 
Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Italy p. 224 nos. 2—4 (‘holding spear in 1.’), Head Hest. num.” p. 70. 

6 E. Brizio in the Guida del Museo Civico di Bologna Bologna 1882 p. 24. 

7 F. Inghirami Monumentd etruschi o di etrusco nome Poligrafia Fiesolana 1824 ii. 
202—245 pl. to—a careful detailed drawing, which served as the foundation of Gerhard 
Etr. Spiegel iii. 6769 pl. 66 (=my pl. xxix). A fresh tracing of the mirror is published 
by E. Braun in the Anz. d. Just. 1851 xxili. 142 ff. pl. I—K. For further bibliography 
see C. Pauli in Roscher Zex. AMZjyth. iv. 785. 

8 So E. Braun Joc. cit. p. 143 ff. read the name, which had previously been transcribed 
as Thana. His attempt to identify 7anr with Iuno (Uxz) is, however, hopeless. 

® C. Pauli in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 786 ff. proposes to connect Se@/ans with otdnpos : 
‘Das Wort geht auf eine Form *Se@la zuriick, die nach etruskischen Lautgesetzen fiir 
*gé0ala stehen kann. Dies Sé@ala aber ist so klarlich gleich oldapos, dass es keiner weiteren 
Erorterungen dariiber bedarf. Der Se@lans ist somit der ‘‘ferrarius,” und die Form wiirde 
in griechischem Gewande Zcdnpyvés lauten.’ 


710 The spear of Zeus 


head of Zeus with his double axe, stands aloof on the right, his leg 
supported on a rock and his arm thrown up in astonishment at the 
result of his blow. Behind 7%ad/na is a pomegranate-tree? with an 





Mi, 
if 
UA, a? 


TM 


| 


IS 
He, 
/ 


(a 











ic se i: 
Ui — ot} 


UN 
My Deas 





Fig. 651. 


eagle® perched upon it; behind 7hanr, a bay-tree. The back of 
the handle shows the face of Aphrodite, with a flower? in her hair, 
surrounded by leafage and flanked by a couple of doves. It will be 


1 His pose recalls on the one hand that of Hephaistos on a black-figured amphora in 
the Louvre (no. E 852, zfra § 9 (h) ii (@)), on the other hand that of Hermes in the east 
pediment of the Parthenon (zz/ra § g (h) ii (@)). 


2 Gerhard of. c#z. iii. 68 takes it to be ‘eine Myrtenstaude,’ noting that the fruit of the 
myrtle resembles a small pomegranate. 

3 Td. ib, says ‘mit darauf sitzender Taube,’ but admits that the hooked beak is a 
difficulty. The suggestion of myrtle and dove would hardly have been made, had it not 
been for the erroneous notion that 7a/nza was a sort of Aphrodite (7Zzvraz). 

4 Gerhard of. cit. iii. 69: ‘eine Rose.’ 





The spear of Zeus PEt 


observed that in this imposing design the thunderbolt is definitely 
shaped like a short spear or javelin’. 

A Gallo-Roman bronze, found by labourers in 1914 on the site 
of a Roman house at Lyons, represents Iupiter, nude, bearded, and 
erect (fig. 651). His abundant hair is encircled with a wreath of 
bay or olive. His eyes show traces of incrustation in silver—a 





Fig. 652. 2 Fig. 653. 


frequent and effective device. In his outstretched right hand, now 
lost, was some attribute, presumably a thunderbolt. In his raised 
left hand is a spear, still intact. H. Lechat in his excellent publi- 
cation of the statuette, which he attributes to the first half of the 
second century A.D., rightly insists on its fine, almost Greek, style’, 
but wrongly—to my thinking—denies that its attributes had any 
special significance+, On the contrary I should maintain that 


1 P. Jacobsthal Der Blitz in der orientalischen und griechischen Kunst Berlin 1906 
p- 15 fig. 20: ‘ Die Knospe erscheint hier eher wie ein Blatt einer Lanzenspitze, auf dessen 
Flache Ornamente graviert sind.’ In E. Braun’s plate (Az. d. Just. 1851 xxiii pl. I—K), 
the resemblance of the lance to a thunderbolt with a spike at either end is rather more 
pronounced, 

2 H. Lechat ‘Statuette de Jupiter’ in the Rev. Arch. 1917 i. 68—71 pl. 3 (=my 
fig. 651). 

3 The turn of the head towards the supporting leg implies the lasting influence of 
some fifth-century sculptor (Polykleitos?). But the thick mass of hair, the exaggerated 
swelling of the abdominal wall above the hip, and the Schzwang of the whole figure betray 
the predilections of a much later period. 

4H. Lechat Joc. cet. p. 70: ‘Au déclin du paganisme, dans ces minuscules figurations 
divines dénuées de tout caractére officiel, on voit des attributs qui sont comme vides de 


752 The sword of Zeus 


Iupiter, grasping a bolt in one hand and a spear in the other, 
fittingly expressed the popular belief in a sky-god, whose weapons 
were thunder and lightning. 

In conclusion, it should be noticed that Roman lamps with 
crescentic handles not unfrequently have the crescent embellished 
with a relief of Iupiter holding a thunderbolt in his right hand and 
a spear or sceptre in his left (fig. 652). An example in the British 
Museum gives him an unmistakable spear (fig. 653)”. The lightning- 
god was a suitable adornment of the light-giving lamp*, and his 
threatensome attitude an excellent apotrépazon. 


iii. The sword of Zeus. 


Greek literature never equips Zeus with a sword. Can the same 
be said of Greek art? The question arises in connexion with an 
important Attico-Ionian amphora found at Caere in Etruria and 
now preserved in the Louvre (pl. xxx)* The body of the vase 
exhibits two scenes, which together form one of our earliest repre- 
sentations of the Gigantomachia®. The main combat is that of Zeus, 
who single-handed attacks three Giants. Agasthenes is down and 
out; Ephialtes and Hyperbios still show fight. The Giants are 
armed like Greek hoplites. So too is Zeus, except that the round 
shield borne on his left arm is fringed with twenty bristling snakes 


sens et ne servent plus que de prétexte a une pose, d’occasion a un geste.... De méme, 
ici, la lance au lieu du sceptre.’ _, 

1 J. Toutain in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iii. 1327 f. fig. 4593 (=my fig. 652) 
from a terra-cotta specimen in the Louvre, Brit. Mus. Cat. Lamps p. 129 nos. 854—857 
terra-cotta handles only. 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Lamps p. 129 no. 857 fig. 159 (=my fig. 653). Height 22 inches. 
According to H. B. Walters, ‘Zeus has three darts or arrows in r. hand.’ But nos. 854— 
856 make it clear that a thunderbolt is intended. 

3 G. Supka in the Jahrb. d. kas. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1915 xxx Arch. Anz. pp. 24, 
27. fig. 6 publishes a large bronze lamp from Mor, now in the National Museum at 
Buda-Pesth, which has a fine bust of Zeus (eyes and lips originally incrusted), without 
thunderbolt, spear, or sceptre, between the horns of the crescent and below it on the 
crescent a bust of Helios. Other lamp-handles show Zeus between the horns, upborne 
on an eagle grasping a thundérbolt (A. C. P. de Tubiéres Comte de Caylus Recueil 
a@antiquités égyptiennes, étrusques, grecgues, romaines et gaulotses Paris 1764 vi. 305 
pl. 97, 5, Babelon—Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. Nat. p. t1 no. 20 fig. Cp. supra 
p- 102 f. fig. 64). 

4 Pottier Cat. Vases du Louvre ii. 544 f. no. E 732, id. Vases antiques du Louvre 
2me Série Paris 1go1 p. 68 f. no. E 732 pl. 54 (views of front and back from photographs), 
O. Jahn ‘Gigantomachia, dipinto vasculare ceretano’ in the Azz. d. Just. 1863 xxxv. 
243—255, Mon. d. /ust. vi—vii pl. 78 (=my pl. xxx), Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus 
p: 349 ff. no. 13 with Atlas pl. 4, 8, Reinach és. Vases i. 162, 3—5, J. Endt Beztrage 
sur gonischen Vasenmalerei Prag 1899 p. 38 f., H. B. Walters History of Ancient Pottery 
London 1905 ii. 13 f. fig. rrr. ; 

5 M. Mayer Dee Giganten und Titanen Berlin 1887 p. 282 ff. no. 4. 


SS eee 


Plate XXX 








Ionian (Cean ?) amphora from Caere, now in the Louvre: Zeus, in the Gigantomachia, 


fighting Agasthenes, Ephialtes, and Hyperbios. 
See page 712f. 





The sword of Zeus 713 


and that the weapon brandished in his right hand appears to be a 
thunderbolt of unusual form. The other combatants are grouped 
in pairs’. Hera stabs Harpolykos(?). Athena seizes Enkelados by 
the crest of his helmet and swings up a short sword for the coup de 
grace. Poseidon, in a scaled cuirass, with a black rock (the island 
Nisyros) on his left shoulder and a trident in his right hand, dis- 
patches Polybotes. And Hermes, in pétasos, pelt, and exdromédes, 
plunges a lance into Polybios. The inscriptions, according to 
P. Kretschmer’, suggest that the painter hailed from Keos, or 
possibly Naxos or Amorgos. Our business, however, is not with 
the subject as a whole, but with the weapon of Zeus in particular. 
O. Jahn’, J. Overbeck‘, and M. Mayer’—three highly competent 
critics—all took it to be a sword. But E. Pottier*—an authority of 
equal eminence—described it as the thunderbolt. And P. Jacobsthal’ 
has argued in the same sense: he points out that Zeus, unlike the 
other swordsmen of the vase, has neither sheath nor sword-belt ; 
that the attitude of his arm implies the action of hurling, not 
striking ; and that the lines engraved on the bolt can be paralleled 
from the Etruscan mirror already discussed*. I accept this con- 
clusion and assume that the front half of the thunderbolt is supposed 
to be hidden by the swan-head crests of Zeus’ helmet. 

We are on surer ground, though in a less Hellenic atmosphere, 
when we pass from the Kyklades to Karia. In the temple at 
Labranda near Mylasa Zeus was worshipped as S¢rdtios, and his 
ancient image had a sword slung beside it®.. Here we can be 


1 On this type-form see Overbeck of. cz¢t. Zeus p. 341 ff. and H. B. Walters in the 
Lrit. Mus. Cat. Vases ii. 9 ff. 

> P. Kretschmer in the Zeztschrift fiir vergleichende Sprachforschung 1889—1892 xxxi. 
292 ff., 2d. Die Griechischen Vaseninschriften Giitersloh 1894 pp. 59—6r (‘ Keische Vase’) : 


SVHI=Zets, ... JOZATA=’Ayacdé[vns], SOLIBIH TV ='Tréppios, HITIAATES 
=’EmdArns, APMOA....=‘Apréd[ucos], HE. .="H[pn], 3HIMIIFH= ‘Epis, 


M7... BIOS =M[ors]sios, AOENAH=Abnvdn, 3 OA AAFHISH=’E(y)[«]édados, 


-JTOIVAO']=ModvBdrz[s]. The same irregularity in the writing of e-sounds is, 
according to Kretschmer, a feature of Cean inscriptions (but see A. Thumb Handbuch 
der griechischen Dialekte Heidelberg 1909 p. 346 f.). 

% ©. Jahn in the Azz. d. Znst. 1863 xxxv. 246: ‘una larga spada.’ 

+ Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 349: ‘nicht seinen Blitz, sondern ein gewaltiges 
Schwerdt.’ 

> M. Mayer Die Giganten und Titanen Berlin 1887 p. 285: ‘ ein Schwert.’ 

° E. Pottier Vases antiques du Louvre 2™° Série Paris rgo1 p. 68: ‘Zeus brandit le 
foudre de la main droite.’ 

7 P. Jacobsthal Der Blitz tn der orientalischen und griechischen Kunst Berlin 1906 
jaruteyace &e 

8 Supra p. 709 ff. pl. xxix. 

9 Ail. de nat. an, 12. 30 quoted supra p. 591 Nn. I. 


714 The sword of Zeus 


tolerably certain that the old sky-god with his double axe (/adrys) 
has been modernised into a war-god with a handier blade’. 

At Stratonikeia, not twenty miles away from Mylasa, Zeus was 
Chrysaoreus? or Chrysaérios*. The town, indeed the whole district, 
had in early days been called Chrysaoris*. Its inhabitants, the 
Chrysaoreés®, were members of a league specially devoted to the cult 
of Zeus Chrysaoreis®’. There was also a Carian hero Chrysaor, 


1 Supra p. 590f. Similarly the Babylonian Zeus bore a dagger as well as a double © 
axe for warlike purposes (Baruch 6. 15 éxee dé éyxeupldvov deka Kal wéNexuv, EauTov dé Ex 
mov€uou kal Mnora@v odx éeNetrac): W. H. Roscher Die Gorgonen und Verwandtes Leipzig 
1879 p. 78 n. 158. 

2 Strab. 660 gor & év rH xwWpa T&v Urparovixéwy dbo iepd, ev pev Aaryivois 7d Tis 
Exdrns émipavécrarov, mavnytpers weyddas cuvdyov Kat’ éviaurév: éyyds dé THs médEws TO 
ToU Xpucaopéws Aros xowov amdvrwy Kapav, els 6 cuviace Ovcovrés Te Kal Bovevodpevor 
mepi Tay Kow&v: x.7.X. A base found at Delphoi records a decree of the Delphic Am- 
phiktiones, between 205 and 202 B.c., in honour of Antiochos iii and of Antiocheia in 
Chrysaoris 67 7d Kowdv T&v ’Audixribvey Tay ev TOAW Tay ’AvTio|xéwy Kal Tav Xwpav 
avadexvver dovdov kai lepay Tod Awos Xpvoaopé|ws kal ’Amd\Awvos "Iooripou, k.T.A. (L.Couve 
in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1894 xviii. 235 ff. no. ii, 23 ff., J. Baunack in Collitz—Bechtel 





Fig. 654. 


Gr. Dial.-Inschr. ii. 708 ff. no. 2529, 23 ff., Michel Recuezl d’Znuscr. gr. no. 252, 23 ff., 
Dittenberger Orient. Gr. inscr. sed. no. 234, 23 ff.). Silver coins of Stratonikeia from 
81 B.c. onwards have oédv. head of Zeus with bay-wreath; vev. Hekate, with Ad/athos 
surmounted by crescent, holding phzd/e and torch (A. v. Sallet in the Zeztschr. 7. Num. 
1888 xvi. 5 pl. 1, 2 (=my fig. 654) a unique ¢¢drachmon at Berlin, Imhoof-Blumer 
Kleinas. Miinzen i. 155, Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 150 pl. 23, 17, Head Aist. 
num.” p. 624 f.): the two deities here represented are presumably those named in Strab. 
660 (supra). 

3 Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no. 2720 (Stratonikeia) a decree of the people and senate 
honouring Hierokles, son of Panaitios son of Thrason, 3 ff. [dpxtepéa] trav LVeBacrar, 
(i)epéa Tod Ila|[vaudpou Aros kat] ris ‘“Exarns 1(%)s (6)acdopdpou | [wera THs yuvack jos abrod 
"Agla(s) THs ‘Lepoxé|[ous, iepéla Ards Xpvoaopilov, iepéa Au\[ds ‘PeuBnvddou (?), iJepéa Ards 
Na(k)pdoou (?), iepéa Ac|[ds Lepdmvdos(?)] and his two sons Thrason 13 f. [dpxyvepéa 7O]v 
LeBacrav, —— | —— [iepéa Aros] rod Iavaudpou and Leon 15 f. dpxvepéa t&v LeBac|[rar, 
—-] — lepéa Avds Xpvoaopiov, | k.7.d., no. 2721 (Stratonikeia), 11 ff. ijepdrevoay 5é€ maduv 
oi viol avrod Op(d)|owy ev Tod Atds Tod Xpucaop(é)ov, | Aéwy dé rod Ards Tod Iavaudpov. 

4 Paus. 5. 21.10, Steph. Byz. s.vv. "Idpuds, Xpucaopls. : 

® Steph. Byz. s.v. Xpucaopls, Corp. inscr. Gr. i no. 1590, 19, no. 1591, 44 and 56, ii 
no. 2693 a, 19, Dittenberger Orvzent. Gr. zmscr. sel. no. 111, 8, NO. 234, 12, NO. 441, 22, alzd. 

6 On this league, which was called 76 Xpvoadpevoy (or Xpvoaopixdv) cictnua, see 
L. Biirchner in Pauly—Wissowa eal-Enc. iii. 2485, Dittenberger Orient. Gr. inscr. sel. 
MGs) Tiittaig 








The sword of Zeus nis 


father of the eponyms Idrieus! and Mylasos*. Philon of Byblos 
in his version of Sanchouniathon’s history* gives Chrysdér as the 
name of the Phoenician Hephaistos, whom he further identifies 
with Zeus Mezlichzos*. 

With regard to this group of names some rather venturesome 
views have been advanced by P. Carolidis®. He holds that Zeus 
Chrysaoreus was the Hellenic form of the zox-Hellenic Zeus Osogés, 
whose appellative he connects with the Armenian vosgh7 or osghz, 
‘gold’ Chrysaoreis, originally Chrysdor, involves—we are told— 
the suffix -vor (=-phéros), and this ‘Golden’ deity was the great 
sun-god of Asia Minor later fused with the war-god of the Chalybes, 
Zeus Strdatios. 

It must, I suppose, be conceded that the names Chrysaoreus etc. 
are Greek, at least in appearance. It is, however, an assumption 
that Zeus Chrysaoretis was one with Zeus Osogéa (so his title should 
be spelled*), and a further assumption that either of them was ever 
called Zeus S¢rdtios. Again, it is obvious that the suffix -phdros 
cannot possibly enter into such forms as Chrysdor, Chrysaoreis. 
I should rather conclude that Chrysaoreis, if Greek, meant ‘He of 
the Golden Sword, the latter element in the compound being akin 
to dor, ‘a sword, itself a word of doubtful origin but best related 
to aezro as ‘a thing slung from, or attached to, the wearer’. But, 
since the Greek chrysdés, ‘gold, was borrowed from the Semitic 
héris*, it is likely enough that we have here to do with a Greek 
attempt to extract sense from a Semitic (Phoenician?) name—a 
phenomenon already noted in other connexions’. 

On the whole, it seems probable that the Carian Zeus Chry- 
saoreus or Chrysaérios would have been regarded by neighbouring 


1 Steph. Byz. s.v. Evpw7és. 2 Steph. Byz. s.v. Mvdaca. 3 Supra i. 191. 

4 Philon Bybl. frag. 2 (Frag. hist. Gr. iii. 566 Miiller) ap. Euseb. praep. ev. 1. 10. 11f. 
xpdvors dé torepov moddots amd THs “LYoupaviov yeveds yevéoOar "Aypéa kal ‘Aiea, Tovs 
dypas Kai adelas ebperds, €& Sv kAnOFvac dypeuras Kal Geets: EF Gv yevecOar do adeAgods, 
oLOjpou evperas Kai THs ToUTOU Epyacias: wy Oatepoy Tov Xpvowp NOyous aokjoat kai Erwdas 
kal wavrelas* elvar 6€ todrov Tov “H@aiorov, ebpety 5€ Kal dyKiorpov Kal déXeap Kal dpmrav 
kal oxedlay, mp@rov te wdvTwv avOpwrev mredoar: 10 Kai ws Bedy avdrov meta BavaTov 
é€oeBdoOncay- Kanetobar dé avrov Kai Ala MewNixuov. See further F. C. Movers Uzter- 
suchungen tiber die Religion und die Gottheiten der Phinizier Bonn 1841 i. 658 f. 

®° P. Carolidis Bemerkungen zu den alten kleinasiatischen Sprachen und Mythen 
Strassburg i. E. 1913 pp. 97-99- 

8 Supra p. 580. 

7? Prellwitz Ziym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr.? pp. 8f., 43, Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue 
Gr. pp. 15 f., 66, Walde Lat. etym. Worterb.? p. 255 s.v. ‘ esis.’ 

8 H. Lewy Die semitischen Fremdworter im Griechischen Berlin 1895 p. 59f., Schrader 
Reallex. p. 299, S. Feist Kultur Ausbreitung und Herkunft Indogermanen Berlin 1913 
p- 207 f. 

9 Supra i. 18 f., 25 with n. 2, alzd. 


716 “The award. of Zeus 


Greeks—say lIonians of the coast-district—as the ‘Bearer of a 
Golden Sword.’ Now we have seen that the Ionians of the Kyklades 
had quite a penchant for arming their deities with the sword: on 
the amphora figured above (pl. xxx) even Hera and Athena are 
using this weapon with effect. We are therefore prepared to find 
that Ionic minstrels, and after them the poets in general, spoke of 
this, that, and the-other divine personage as ‘bearer of a golden 
sword. Apollon, for example, was chrysdoros’ or chrysdor?—an 
epithet which certainly denotes him as god ‘of the golden sword’ 
(dor), not, as it was misinterpreted by later critics, ‘of the golden 
quiver-strap (aortér), or lyre-strap, or lyre®’ Artemis too in an 
oracle of Bakis was, like her brother, chvysdoros+. So was Demeter 
in the Homeric hymn®. Orpheus was described by Pindar as chry- 
sdor®. And Chrysaor, Chrysaorios, Chrysaoreus occur as theophoric 
names, not only in Karia and countries adjacent’, but also in places 
far afield’. 

Nor must we forget Chrysaor the twin-brother of Pegasos. 
Hesiod® tells us that, when Perseus cut off the head of the Gorgon 
Medousa,— 


Forth sprang Chrysaor huge and Pegasos 

The horse—this named from the founts of Ocean 
Where he was born; that grasped a golden sword. 
Pegasos, quitting earth the mother of flocks, 

Winged his way heavenward: in Zeus’ home he dwells 
Bearing the thunder-peal and lightning-flash 

For Zeus the wise. Chrysaor met and knew 

Great Ocean’s child, the maid Kallirrhoe, 

And had for son three-headed Geryon. 


1 71. 5. 509, 15. 256, 2. Ap. 395, h. Artem. 3, Hes. frag. 227, 3 Flach, 265, 3 Rzach 
ap. schol. Pind. Vem. 2. 1, Ap. Rhod. 3. 1283 (xpucadpw ’Amré\Nwve R. C. Seaton and 
G. W. Mooney with codd. G. L16. and two of the Vatican Mss.), Sch6ll—Studemund 
anecd. i. 267 ’Emidera ’Amé\Xwvos no. 46 xpucadpov. 

2 H. Ap. 123, Hes. 0. d. 771, Pind. Pyth. 5. 104, Orph. Avg. 140, Ap. Rhod. 3. 1283 
(xpuodop: ’Amd\\wre vulg., but see supra n. 1). 

3 Schol. //. §. 509, 15.256, Hesych. s.v. xputdwp, Souid. s.v. xpvrdopov. See Preller— 
Robert Gr. JZyth. i. 290 n. 5, O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa Real- Enc. iii. 2484f. 

4 Hdt. 8. 77=Anth. Pal. 14. 98, 1 (Bakis). 

° H. Dem. 4. E. E. Sikes ad loc. comments: ‘xpveadpov: Hermann thought that the 
epithet could only have been chosen by an interpolator. But Demeter is épngépos in 
Lycophr. 153, where the schol. notes év 77 Bowria tdpurac Anunrnp Eidos éxouca.’ 

§ Pind. frag. 139, 10 Schréder af. schol. //. 15. 256 xpucdopoy: #ror xpvcopdc-yavor, 
i) Xpucobv Tov aoprnpa THs papérpas exovta 7 THs KiOdpas, odKETe be Tod Eigous: ayvds yap Oo 
eds (codd. A. D.). kat Idapos xpuvcdopa tov ’Oppéa gaol. tweés dé xpucodv Elpos Exovra 
(codd. A. L., cp. cod. T.). 

7 E. Sittig De Graecorum nominibus theophoris (Dissertationes philologicae Halenses 
xx. 1) Halis Saxonum tgis p. 17, W. Pape—G. E. Benseler Wérterbuch der griechischen 
Ligennamen® Braunschweig 1875 ii. 1692. 

8 De Vit Onxomasticon ii. 266, Thes. Ling. Lat. Suppl. i. 419, 25 ff. 

® Hes. theog. 281—288. 





The sword of Zeus 717 


A terra-cotta relief from Melos, now in the British Museum 
(fig. 655)!, shows Perseus on horseback riding off with the Gor- 
géneton. From the neck of Medousa emerges a small draped male 





Fig. 655. 


figure, Chrysaor: Pegasos is not represented?. More often Chrysaor 
and Pegasos spring simultaneously from the severed neck. The 
end-panel of a limestone sarcophagus from Golgoi (Athzenau) in 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Terracottas p. 132 no. B 365, J. Millingen Anczent Unedited Monu- 
ments Series ii London 1826 p. 3 pl. 2 (=my fig. 655), Miiller—Wieseler Dexkm. d. ald. 
Kunst i. g pl. 14, 51, Baumeister Devhkm. iii. 1289 f. fig. 1438, Smith—Wayte—Marindin 
Dict. Ant. ii. 797 with fig. on p. 798, Overbeck Gr. Plastik+ i. 217 f. fig. 53a, M. B. Huish 
Greek Terra-cotta Statuettes London 1900 p. 137 pl. 37 (photograph). 

2 So Millingen /oc. cit. Wieseler Joc. cit. took the horse ridden by Perseus to be a 
wingless Pegasos, as do Baumeister and Smith—Wayte—Marindin Jocc. citt. But Over- 
beck doc. c7t. rightly points out that Perseus is on horseback just because Bellerophon 
rides a horse in the pendant relief, found in the same Melian tomb in 1819 (Brit. Mus. 
Cat.. Terracottas p. 132 no. B 364). 


718 The sword of Zeus 


Kypros, which forms part of the Cesnola collection at New York, 
has a graphic delineation of the scene (fig. 656)1, Perseus, with the 
head in a wallet (£zbzszs), turns his back on the moribund Medousa ° 
and marches off, to be followed by his hound. A red-figured am-- 
phora at Munich (fig. 657)? gives Perseus the winged cap, the 
winged sandals, and even the winged caduceus of Hermes: Me- 
dousa is accompanied by a second Gorgon, and Perseus by Athena. 
An Etruscan scarab (fig. 658)* leaves the figure of Medousa to speak 





Fig. 656. 


for itself. A small two-handled vase from Nola, formerly in the 
Campana collection (fig. 659)*, had a stamped design representing 
a somewhat later moment. At the foot of an Ionic column sur- 
mounted by a Sphinx Medousa has fallen backwards in death. 
Chrysaor and Pegasos are already free from her neck, the former 
a naked infant kneeling on the ground, the latter a winged horse 
galloping up the sky. The two living Gorgons, Stheno and Euryale, 
with snakes in their right hands, pursue the hero, who keeping firm 
hold of his #zbzsts and hadrpe is conducted by Hermes into the 


1 G. Colonna Ceccaldi ‘Un sarcophage d’Athiénau (Chypre)’ in the Rev. Arch. 1875 
i. 22 ff. pl. 2, L. P. di Cesnola Cyprus: its ancient cities, tombs, and temples London 1877 
p- 110 ff. pl. 10, Perrot—Chipiez Hist. de 7 Art iii. 615 ff. fig. 419, E. Kuhnert in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. iii. 2031 f. fig. 3, J. L. Myres in the Ant. Denkm. iii. 1. 3f. pls. 5 and 6 (6c 
=my fig. 656), 7d. The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Handbook of the Cesnola Collection 
of Antiquities from Cyprus New York 1914 p. 226 ff. no. 1364 fig. 1364 A—D. 

2 Jahn Vasensamml. Miinchen p. 292 no. 910, Gerhard Auserl. Vasend, ii. 24 ff. pl. 89, 
3 and 4 (=my fig. 657), Reinach Rép. Vases ii. 49, 2 and 4, E. Kuhnert in Roscher Lex. 
Myth. iii. 2038. 

3 Furtwangler Ant. Gemmen i pl. 20, 37 (=my fig. 658: scale 7), ii. 99. 

4 E. Braun in the Mon. Ann. e Bull. d. Inst. 1855 pp. 17—20 pl. 2 (=my fig. 659), 
E. Kuhnert in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 2038. 





The sword of Zeus 719 


presence of Athena. Behind her back are three pairs of wings 





hung _up like weapons in an armoury’. This last touch was not 


1 E. Kuhnert Joc. cz¢. describes these wings as ‘ Unverstandlich.’ But Perseus had 
been fitted out by the Nymphs with wings on head and foot, and these presuppose a divine 
store-house of such things. 


720 The sword of Zeus 


particularly happy, and is abandoned in favour of a duplicated 
column on an d/fe of black glazed ware from 
Capua, now in the British Museum!, which 
otherwise exhibits precisely the same stamped 
design. It would seem, then, that the artists 
of the fifth and fourth centuries B.C. ignored 
the Hesiodic tradition that Chrysaor ‘grasped 
a golden sword, but were well aware of his 
phenomenal birth. 

Now F. Hannig? has argued that Chrysaor 
had originally nothing to do with Pegasos, but 
Fig. 658. was none other than the Carian Chrysaor® (son 

of the Sisyphid Glaukos‘, as was also Bellero- 












Ciel 
IAI 





227270907 


gull Hy 
ni T ——1 
eS = D tie 
— = 
<<-731 

















SL SES SSL SRE SS SSE SEES SESE SS SES LSS S SSS LES LES SESS SS LES SL SEES ESE ESS ES EMSS SERES EE SLL SLE EEE L EE ES 


UOC OIOUOCOOOIONUIDO CIOS 














1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases iv. 250 no. G go. 

* F. Hannig De Pegaso (Breslauer philologische Abhandlungen viii. 4) Vratislaviae 1902 
pp. 26—28 (‘De Chrysaore a prima ortus fabula alieno’), zd. in Roscher Lex. AZyth. iii. 
1749. 

3 Supra p. 714 Ff. 

+ Steph. Byz. s.v. Midaca:...dmd Muddoov rod Xpvodopos ro} TAavKov Tod Disdgov 
Tov Alddov. 





The sword of Zeus 724 


phon’), who first became attached to the birth-saga:in Asia Minor, 
the story having been. carried thither by Dorian colonists from its 
home in the northern Peloponnese. To this hypothesis in a modified 
form O. Gruppe? has given his assent. It should, however, be 
emphasised that what brought Chrysaor and Pegasos together in 
this peculiar twinship was their identity of function. According 
to Hesiod* and Euripides‘, Pegasos carries the thunder and light- 
ning of Zeus. And scholars both ancient® and modern® have seen 
in Chrysaor a personification of the lightning’. I am no devotee 
of meteorological mythology, but I admit the attractiveness of this 
hypothesis, which explains well the ‘golden sword’ of our earliest 


1 E. Wilisch in Roscher Lex. AZyth. 1. 1688 ff., G. Weicker in Pauly—Wissowa Real- 
Enc. vii. 1408 ff. 

2 Hannig’s views have been summarised and criticised by Gruppe in the Ber/. phzlol. 
Woch. Miz 25, 1905 p. 380 ff., who however accepts his contention that Pegasos at first 
belonged to the Bellerophon-myth and concludes (2d. p. 386) with great ingenuity as 
follows: ‘ Endlich sind Pegasos und Bellerophontes wahrscheinlich nicht erst von Argos 
aus iiber Rhodos, sondern schon durch die troizenische Kolonie Halikarnassos, die friih 
den Vorderteil des Pegasos auf die Miinzen setzte, in das benachbarte Bargylia, das er 
gegriindet haben sollte, gekommen; auch Glaukos’ Sohn Chrysaor ist vielleicht von 
Halikarnassos, also in letzter Linie von Troizen aus in eine Genealogie von Mylasa 
gelangt, und schliesslich ist sein Name als Entsprechung des mit der Doppelaxt darge- 
stellten barbarischen Landesgottes von Karien gefasst worden. Nun ist natiirlich Chrysaor, 
der Sohn des Glaukos, d. h. des Poseidon, und der Eurymede, nicht zu trennen von 
Chrysaor, dem Sohne Poseidons und der (Eury)medusa; beide sind niemand anders als 
Bellerophontes xpucdwp, der ebenfalls Glaukos’ oder Poseidons und Eurymedes Sohn 
heisst. Der troizenische Hymnos erzahlte also, wie aus dem Haupte der Medusa Belle- 
rophontes das Goldschwert in der Hand und den Pegasos reitend hervorsprang: das ist 
eine Parallele und hat wahrscheinlich die Anregung gegeben zu der argivischen Sage von 
Athena, die in goldener Riistung mit Ross und Wagen aus dem Haupt des Gottervaters 
hervorging.’ See also Gruppe JZyth. Lit. 1908 pp. 434, 590 f. 

3 Hes. theog. 285 f. Znvos & év Sépacr vater | Bpovrjy re crepomny re pépwv Aci wnridevte. 

4 Eur. Bellerophontes frag. 312 Nauck? ap. Aristoph. pac. 722 vp’ apuar’ €Nwv Znvos 
dorpamnpope: with schol. ad loc. 6 orlxos é€x BeNepoddvrov Kipurliov. mapa 7d aorparais 
vmrnperetv. 

5 Schol. Hes. ¢heog. 282 rixrovrat dotparal Kai duBpor, 6 éore Xpvodwp kai Ijyacos. 
Xpvodwp 6 Napmpos ap. x.7.d., Tzetz. 72 Lyk. Al.17 7d 5é Newropuepés repo els Td aidepo- 
evdéorepov Kal éru els TO WupAdes peTaBadrew, Gmep kal Xpvodopa KexA7jKac. 

6 E.g. W. H. Roscher Die Gorgonen und Verwandtes Leipzig 1879 p. 115 ‘ Chrysaor 

=Goldschwert ist natiirlich abermals ein Symbol des Blitzes,’ E. H. Meyer /xdoger- 
maniscthe Mythen Berlin 1887 ii (Achilleis). 480 ‘...Chrysaor, das Goldschwert, kann nur 
als Blitz gedeutet werden,’ Preller—Robert Gr. AZy¢h. i. 192 ‘...Chrysaor und Pegasos 
entspringen d. h. der zuckende Lichtstrahl des Blitzes und die gefltigelte Donnerwolke.’ 
’ 7 Tt is noteworthy that in Orph. /ith. 551 xpucadpw Ilepoqe (xpuoatpw ed. Ald. 
J. G. J. Hermann cj. xpuvcordrpw. E. Abel cj. xpuvcoyévw) the epithet xpuedopos is 
applied to Perseus himself, whose sword (first mentioned in Hes. sc. Her. 221 f. wmowow 
dé uv audi peddvderov Gop exevro | xadxéou (xddxeov codd. K. L.) ék reAapudvos) subse- 
quently becomes a sickle-sword (first in Pherekyd. frag. 25 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 75 Ff. 
Miiller) af. schol. Ap. Rhod. 4. 1515 77 apmn) or sickle (so on a ‘ Lucanian’ hydyéa from 
Anzi in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases iv. 95 f. no. F 185 pl. 7): see E. Kuhnert in Roscher 
Lex. Myth. iii. £990, 2021. 


Gy Tk 46 


722 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


authority and- falls into line with the folk-concepts of various 
peoples. If valid, it leads us to conclude that Zeus Chrysaorets 
of Stratonikeia was viewed by the Greeks as a lightning-god, 
‘He of the Golden Sword,—a deity essentially akin to Zeus 
Strdtios the sword-bearer of Labranda. 


iv. The thunderbolt of Zeus. 


Zeus regarded as a lightning-god was, we have seen, sometimes 
armed with an axe, occasionally with a spear, very seldom with a 
sword or dagger, never—be it observed—with bow and arrows? (like 
Apollon) or with club (like Herakles). But far more frequent than 
any or all of these is another weapon. Innumerable passages of 
Greek literature and innumerable monuments of Greek art repre- 
sent Zeus equipped with a thunderbolt. Of the literary allusions 
I have already said something and shall have to say more. We are 
here concerned only with the artistic representations, and with the 
light that they throw upon the development of popular belief’. 


(a) Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt. 


O. Gruppe* has remarked that the thunderbolt, which from the 
sixth century B.C. onwards characterises the figure of Zeus, falls 
gradually into the background. ‘Men seem to have realised,’ he 
says, ‘that a sense of majesty is produced not so much by the 
exercise of power as by the power to exercise it.’ 

To this progressive elimination of the thunderbolt there was one 
significant exception. In the Council Hall at Olympia even as late 
as the second century A.D. stood the formidable figure of Zeus 
Hérkios*, ‘God of Oaths,’ still grasping a thunderbolt in either hand 


1 See F. L. W. Schwartz Der Ursprung der Mythologie Berlin 1860 pp. 103, 231, 235, 
282 f., zd. Indogermanischer Volksglaube Berlin 1885 pp. 26 n. I, 104, 141, 143, 225, 
E. H. Meyer Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 92. 

J. F. Campbell Popular Tales of the West Highlands Edinburgh 1860 i pp. Ixxiv, 1 ff., 
ii. 238 ff. gives two tales, which have points in common with the myth of Perseus, 
Chrysaor, and Pegasos. In no. 1, ‘The young king of Easaidh Ruadh,’ the hero beheads 
the king of the oak windows and obtains two treasures belonging to him, vs. a white- 
faced black horse, the best in Erin, and a marvellous sword known as the Glaive of Light. 
In no. 46, ‘ Mac Iain Direach,’ the hero obtains the yellow (bay) filly of the king of Erin 
and the white Glaive of Light kept by the seven Big Women of Dhiurradh. 

2 But cp. Nonn. Dzon. 2. 480 f. (of Zeus v. Typhon) Auzerées 6é xepavvol | jepdbev 
méumovTo mupryAwyxeuves dtaTol. 

3 For the various explanations and classifications of thunderstorm phenomena put 
forward by philosophers see T. H. Martin La foudre l’électricité et le magnétisme chez les 
anciens Paris 1866 pp. 1—418 passim and O. Gilbert Dze meteorologischen Theorien des 
griechischen Altertums Leipzig 1907 pp. 620—637. 

4 Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 119 f. 

® Zeus is not known to have borne the cult-title”Opxcos elsewhere, except perhaps at 


Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 723 


Tyana in Kappadokia (supra p. 569 n. 4). But all deities by whom men swore were 
Spxtoc Geot, and none more so than Zeus (Farnell Cults of Gk. States i. 69 f., O. Jessen in 
Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. viii. 2408 f.), who is described as 8pxvos by poets of the classical 
and by prose-writers of the post-classical age (Soph. PAz/. 1324 Zifva & bpxiov kad@, Eur. 
Hipp. 1025 f. viv & dbpxibv co Zhva cal médov xOovds | duvume x.7.., Ap. Rhod. 4. 95 f. 
Zeis aiiros Oddbumcos Spxcos orw |“Hpy te Zvyin Aws edvéris k.7.¥., Loukian. Zim. 1 & Led 
pie kai Edie Kal éraipete Kal epéorie kal dorepomnTa Kal SpKkie Kal vepednyepéra Kal 
éptyOoure kal el Th ce &Xo ol EuBpdvTnroe Tonral Kadodor, Souid. s.v."Opxios Zevs. kal, 
“Opktov oxAmtpoy, Kad’ ob Burvov oi Bagels: 7 paBdos (cp. et. Gud. p. 435, 17, Zonar. lex. 
5.u. Spkiov oxAmTpov), Scholl—Studemund azecd. i. 265 Emidera Acés no. 72 dpklov, 266 
"Exidera Acéds no. 67 opkiov, Favorin. lex. p. 1377, 18 ff. dpxios Zeds kat pidvos Kal 
éracpotos (deg. éraxpetos), dudyvios, TatpHos, mpds TovTos Epketos, epéarios Iwyix@s: év ols 
kal Eévios kal 6 ppdrptos, Kowd érlBera rod Acés). Accordingly, his wife is 6pxia Themis 
(Eur. Med. 208 rav Znvos opxiay O€uu, cp. 2b. 168 ff. KamiBodrar | Oduuv edxralay Ziva 6’, 
ds 6pkwy | Ovnrots raulas vevducorac) and his child the personified “Opxos (Soph. O.C. 1767 
X® mavr’ atwy Avds"Opkos, where Sir R. C. Jebb rendered ‘servant of Zeus’ because Hes. 
o.d. 804 makes Horkos the son of Eris). An actual cult of Zeus "E@épxcos is to be inferred 
from Hesych, s.v. "E@épkios: Leds tévxcraywrdyare (J. Alberti prints Musurus’ cj. év 
Tirdvev tdypatt, M. Schmidt cj. év Iiravy rydra. Ptol. 5. 13. 16 mentions Kitamoy as 
a town in Armenia Maior. Kirov in Kypros is less probable). 

Zeus ’Oparpios is known from a treaty (s. ii B.c.) between Hierapytna and Lyttos 
(Michel Recueil d@’lnscr. gr. no. 29, 13 ff. bpkos Auktiwy: duviw tay “Hotlay cal Ziva 
’Oparpov Kal trav “Adavalay ’Qreplay cat Zjva | Mo[vvircov cai “Hplav kai ’A@avatay 
Ilod\cdda kal ’AméANwva ILvtioy cal Aatrw Kal “Apea Kai "Adpodiray xat Kwpflras Kal 
Niugas cal Geos wavras kal mdcas: K.T.d., 19 ff. dpKos leparutviwy: duviw Tay “Hotiay cai 
Ziva ’Oparprov cal Adavaiay ’Qdepiay xa\[t] Zqva Movviriov cat"Hpay cal’ Adavaiay ILoduada 
kal ’Amé\XNwva Ivtiov cal Aat® kal” Apea cai ’Agdpodl|ray kal Kwpfqras cal Nvudas kal Geds 
mdavras Kal mdoas* x.T.\.), from another, of approximately the same date, between 
Hierapytna and one of its colonies (Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no. 2555, 1 ff.=F. Blass in 


Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dial.-Znschr. iii. 2. 311 f. no. 5039, 11 ff. NY, bpkos wy duvi@ TOV 


‘Eoriay cat Tiva’Opdrprov cai Thiva | Acxratov xai”Hpay cal’ Adavatay’Qrepiav cal ’APavalay 
Tlokidda | kal "AOavatay Dauwviav cai ’Amd\d\wva ILvOcov cat Aare cal “Ap[re]|uw cal 
"Apea kal Adpodiray cal Kwpyras cal Niudas cal ros KupBdv|ras xal Oeds mavtas Kai 
magas* x.T.A.), and from a third, somewhat later, between Gortyna and Hierapytna on 
the one side and Priansos on the other (F. Blass in Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Diad.-Znschr. iil. 
2. 301 ff. no. 5024, 59 ff. dpxos II[pravoréwy.] | [6ulyiw trav Ioriay cal Trqva [Bidaray — — 
(R. Bergmann suggests cal Trjva Acxratoy ?) cat Triva] | [ZK]Uduov Kal Trijva ’Oparprov 
[kat “Hpav xal—-—-xal’A)|[Oavjatay ’Qreplav cal ’Awéd\Xwr[a Ldriov cal Aarw xapreuw 
kdpea kal ’A]|[@poléiray cal “Epuadv [x]al Ku[pBavtas cai Kwpjras cal Nvudas kai 
"TN |[Oulav Buwariay cal Ods mavt[as kal mavoas: x«.7.d.], 75 ff. o[pxjos T[op]|[ruviwy Kal 
Taparutviwy.] duriw trav “Toriavy cal T[7rq]|[va Bidaray — — (R. Bergmann suggests kal 
Triva Acxratoy ?) kat Trijva TKidov cai Trpva [Opd]|[rprov cai "Hpav — —] kat A@avaiay 
"Orepiav cali ’A]l[wréAXwva Ibriov cai Aarw Kdpreuw Kédpeja Kappodiray Kat ’Eppyay 
ka{i] | [KupBavras cal Kwpfras cal Nvudas cal “INO]uav Bwarlay cal Ords wdv|ras Kat 
mavoas, k.T.A. K. Hoeck Aveta Gottingen 1829 iii. 140n. g. wanted to read kai Ala 
adrprov kai Ala | Acxraioy in the second inscription. A. Boeckh in the Corp. zzscr. Gr. il. 
411 proposed kal [Z]ava [P]pdrpiov, cali Zalva Ackratov. But modern philologists (F. W. 
Schneidewin in PhzJologus 1854 ix. 699 n. 2, H. Voretzsch in Hermes 1870 iv. 273, 
R. Meister in G. Curtius Studien zur griechischen und lateinischen Grammatik Leipzig 
1871 iv. 406 f., E. Boisacq Les dialectes doriens Paris 1891 p. 114, A. Thumb Handbuch 
der griechischen Dialekte Heidelberg 1909 p. 127) recognise Opdrprov =Fpdrpiov, the ‘ Pro- 
tector of Laws and Treaties’ (/#7pa.). ‘The epithet would then be of Elean source (cf. 
El. fpdrpa=pyrpa...), or else contain hyper-Doric a’ (C. D. Buck Jztroduction to the 
Study of the Greek Dialects Boston 1910 p. 277 n.). 


46—2 


724. Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


Zeus Ilorios occurs in Dion. Hal. ant. Rom. 2. 49 Kdrwv 6é Iépkios (frag. 50 Peter) 
TO pev dvoua TH LaBivwy Ove reOHval pnow emi VdBov rod Vd-yKov dSaipovos émxwplov, 
Tolrov d€ Tov TdyKov brs Twwv Mistiov KareioOa Ala, 4. 58 TovTwy éorl rav dpxlwy 
pynuetov év ‘Payyn Kelwevov év iep@ Aros Iioriov, dv ‘Pwwatoe Dd-yKov kadovow, 9. 60 ev be TH 
moder Tov vecw Tod Iierlov Ards Dadpios Mocrovmos...xabiepwoe k.7.d., as a rendering of 
the Latin Dius Fidizs (cp. Scholl—Studemund anecd. i. 266 ’Emidera Acés no. 78 meoriov). 
The facts relating to this deity are collected by G. Wissowa in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 
1189 f., iv. 316 ff., zd. Rel. Kult. Rom.* pp. 129 ff., 280 f., a/zd., E. Aust in Pauly— 
Wissowa feal-Enc. v. 1246f. In addition to literary allusions we have extant dedications 
to him as Semo Sancus Sanctus Deus Fidius (Dessau [uscr. Lat. sel. no. 3472), Sancus 
Sanctus Semo Deus Fidius (ib. no. 3473), Semo Sancus Deus Fidius (ib. no. 3474), Semo 
Sancus (2b. no. 3475), Sancus Deus Fidius (2b. no. 3476). Wissowa Rel. Kult. Rim. p. 130 
infers that his full name was Semo Sancus Dius Fidius, where Semo Sancus is not to be 
regarded as a distinct divinity blended with Dius Fzdiws, but as an appellative like 
Duonus Cerus in the case of Ianus (supra p. 328 n. 8), Bona Dea in that of Fauna, Deus 
Bonus in that of Aesculapius, etc: (G. Wissowa in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 686 ff.). 
A corresponding Umbrian god was Iupater Sanctus, mentioned in the 7abulae /guvinae 
ii 4, 17 Sasi Iuvepatre, ii 4, 24 Iupater Sase (R. S. Conway Zhe /talic Dialects Cam- 
bridge 1897 i. 417, C. D. Buck A Grammar of Oscan and Umbrian Boston, U.S.A. 1904 
p- 297) and apparently to be identified with the /vsos Sanctos of ia, 15 Fise Sa%i, vid, 3 
Fiso Sansie and the Fisovzos Sancios of vi 6, 5 Fisoui Sansi, 6 Fisoui Sansi, 8 Fisoui Sansi 
(dis), 9 Fisouie SanSie, 10 Fisouie Sansie, 12 Fisouie Sansie (ds), 14 Fisouie Sansie, 
15 Fisouie Sansie, vii a2, 37 Fisoui Sansii (cp. also the Vesticios Sanctos of iia, 4 Vestise 
Sase). But, although the historian of religion is strongly disposed to equate the Dius 
Fidius of the Romans with the /%sos (or F%sovios) Sancios of the Umbrians, the philologist 
sees lions in the way. W. Schulze ‘ Zur Geschichte lateinischer Eigennamen’ in the Adh. 
a. gitt. Geselisch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1904 N.F. v. 2. 473 ff. concludes (p. 475 n. 2): 
‘Die Identificirung mit lat. //dius...ist grammatisch unhaltbar, trotzdem sie sich sachlich 
aufs Beste zu empfehlen scheint.” And Walde Lat. etym. Worterb.* p. 289 s.v. ‘fido’ says: 
‘fisus...ist mit 0. Fitstais, u. Fiso-, Fisiu, Fisovie usw. nur dann vergleichbar, wenn es 
urit. 7 enthalt, was sehr unsicher ist, wie infolgedessen auch iiberhaupt (trotz lat. /7dizs) 
die etymologische Zugehérigkeit der o.-u. G6tternamen zu unserer Wz.’ Abandoning, 
then, the road that leads to Umbria and limiting our enquiry to Rome, we find that the 
connexion of Fidius with fides, etc., has been almost universally assumed. For little 
weight can be attached to the dissent of L. Aelius Stilo, who took Dius Fidius to be for 
Diovis Filius (L. Aelius Stilo frag. 9 Funaioli af. Varr. de ing. Lat. 5. 66 Aelius Dium 
Fidium dicebat Diovis filium, ut Graeci Acécxopov Castorem, et putabat hune esse Sancum 
ab Sabina lingua et Herculem a Graeca, cp. Paul. ex Fest. p. 147, 8 ff. Miiller, p. 133, 
1 ff. Lindsay, interp. Serv. 27 Verg. den. 4. 204, 8. 301, H. Hagen anecdota Helvetica 
Lipsiae 1870 pp. 212, 37 ff. and 260, 16 ff. (=commentum Einsidlense in Don. artem 
minorem de adverbio), G. Goetz-—G. Gundermann in the Corpus glossartorum Latinorum 
Lipsiae 1888 ii. 54, 1 Diuus filius d:ocuoc: npaxdyc). There are, however, some points 
about the god and his ritual that provoke further investigation. He was, to begin with, 
a sky-god, to whom appeal must be made only under the open sky. Any one who swore 
by Dius Aedins stepped into the compluvium so as to have no roof over his head (Varr. 
Cato vel de liberis educandis ap. Non. Marc. p. 793, 23 ff. Lindsay itaque domi rituis 
nostri qui per Dium (so Scaliger for dem) Fidium iurare vult prodire solet in com- 
pluvium). Varr. de ling. Lat. 5. 66 rightly connects this custom with the fact that 
Iupiter’s roof had a hole in it (sepvai. 53). The sky-god was from of old the recipient of 
open-air worship (szpra i. 117 ff.), and his relatives took after him. The oath by Dionysos 
must not be sworn beneath a roof, and boys who wanted to swear by Herakles were 
turned out of doors for the purpose (Plout. gwaestt. Rom. 28). The bronze disks or 
wheels (aenez orbes) dedicated by the Romans to Semo Sangus out of the spoils of 
Privernum (Liv. 8. 20) were perhaps solar symbols, as I conjectured in Folk-Lore 1905 
xvi. 272 n. 9. At Iguvium the man who offered a calf to Iupater Sancius held a wheel 





Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 725 


(urfeta=orbita) in his hand (7abulae Zguvinae ii 6, 22 ff. pune seste, | urfeta manuve 
habetu. estu iuku habetu: | ‘ Iupater Sase, tefe estu vitlu vufru sestu,’ which C. D. Buck 
op. cit. p. 297 translates ‘Cum sistis, orbitam in manu habeto. Istas preces habeto : 
“Tuppiter Sanci, tibi istum vitulum votivum sisto”’). Cakes called suwmmanalia, and 
presumably sacred to Iupiter Szmmanus, god of the nocturnal sky and sender of lightning 
by night (R. Peter in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 1600), were made in the shape of a wheel 
(Fest. p. 348 4 5 f. Miiller, p. 474, 17 f. Lindsay, Paul. ex Fest. p. 349, 9 Miiller, p. 475, 
7 Lindsay). Lyd. de mens. 4. go p. 138, 1 f. Wiinsch 7d DayKos dvoua ovpavdy onualver TH 
LaBivwy ywooy is not conclusive (R. S. Conway of. cz. i. 357). But, on the whole, it 
seems clear that Dius /%azus was a specialised form of Iupiter, the sky-god by whom men 
swore. Now Iupiter was believed to sanction treaties with his thunderbolt (Verg. Aez. 12. 
200 audiat haec genitor, qui foedera fulmine sancit with Serv. ad loc.). And Dius Fidius 
appears to have stood in very special relations to the lightning-flash. G. Wissowa in 





Fig. 660. Fig. 661. 


Roscher Zex. Myth, iv. 318 points out that of the inscriptions mentioning him the three 
most important are all dedications by the decurta sacerdotum bidentalium (Dessau op. cit. 
nos. 3472, 3473) or decuria bidentalis (tb. no. 3474), on which see E. de Ruggiero 
Diztonario epigrafico di antichita romane Roma 1894 i. 1005 f. One of these inscriptions 
(Dessau of. cit. no. 3472 Semoni | Sanco | Sancto Deo Fidio | sacrum | decuria sacerdot. | 
bidentalium) occurs on the base of a marble statue, found at Rome in 1879 and representing 
Dius Fidius himself in the guise of an archaic Apollon (H. Jordan ‘Statua Vaticana di 
Semone Sanco’ in the Azz. d. Just. 1885 lvii. 105—126 pl. A. =my fig. 660 f., W. Helbig 
Fiihrer durch die offentlichen Sammlungen klassischer Altertiimer in Rom® Leipzig 1912 
i. 226 f. no. 351, G. Wissowa in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 318 fig.). C. O. Thulin Die etrus- 
hische Disciplin i Die Blitzlehre (Géteborgs Hogskolas Arsskrift. 1905 v) Goteborg 1906 
p- 42 f. thinks that the statue once held a thunderbolt in its left hand, an ordcs aeneus in 


726 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


tothe terror of would-be perjurers. Pausanias was impressed by 
the sight : 


‘the image of Zeus in the Council House is of all the images of Zeus the best cal- 
culated to strike terror into wicked men: it bears the surname of the God of Oaths, 
and holds a thunderbolt in each hand. Beside this image it is the custom for the 
athletes, their fathers and brothers, and also the trainers, to swear upon the cut 
pieces of a boar that they will be guilty of no foul play in respect of the Olympic 
games. The athletes take an additional oath, that for ten successive months 
they have strictly observed the rules of training. Also those who examine the 
boys or the foals which are entered for the races swear that they will decide 
justly and will take no bribes, and that they will keep secret what they know 
about the accepted or rejected candidate. I forgot to ask what they do with the 
boar after the athletes have taken the oath. With the ancients it was a rule that 
a sacrificed animal on which an oath had been taken should not be eaten by 
man. Homer proves this clearly. For the boar, on the cut pieces of which 
Agamemnon swore that in good sooth Briseis was a stranger to his bed, is repre- 
sented by Homer as being cast by the herald into the sea :— 


He spake, and cut the boar’s throat with pitiless bronze. 
Talthybius lightly wheeled and threw the boar 
Into the great deep of the gray sea, a food for fishes. 


its right, and very ingeniously compares a bronze in the Baduitt collection at St Moritz 
in Switzerland (Reinach Réf. Szat. ii.5 no. g=my fig. 662). 
There is, therefore, a good deal to be said for G. Wissowa’s con- 
tention (in Roscher Zex. AMZyth. iv. 318) ‘ dass Semo Sancus Dius 
Fidius in der Kaiserzeit (die Inschriften stammen etwa aus der 
Zeit der Antonine) besonders als Blitzgott verehrt wurde.’ But, 
if so, I would suggest that his title /zdius meant originally ‘the 
Cleaver’ (cp. findo, fidi, bi-fidus, etc.) and was only later, by dint 
of popular etymology, associated with fides. The same god was 
in Christian times the subject of another curious confusion. For 
Iust. Mart. aol. 1. 26, 1. 56 (followed by Iren. ¢. Aaeres. 1. 23. 1, 
Tiert:. apfol. 13, Euseb. Azst. eccl. 2.13. 3,62-004s Seater or 
Jerusalem catech. 6. 14 (xxxiii. 561 A—B Migne), Aug. de 
haeres. t (xlii. 25 Migne), Theodoret. haeret. fab. 1. 1 (Ixxxiii. 
344 B Migne)) declares that a statue on the Tiber-island dedi- 
cated SIMXQINI AEQ SATKTO. was an effigy of Simon 

Magus (see e.g. G. Salmon in Smith—Wace Dict. Chr. Biogr. iv. 
Fig. 662. 682), who was worshipped together with his consort the harlot 
Helene under the guise of Zeus and Athena (Iren. ¢. haeres. 1. 23. 4, Hippol. ref. haeves. 
6. 20 p. 256 Duncker—Schneidewin, Epiphan. panar. 1. 21. 3, Aug. de haeres. i (xlii. 25 
Migne)). 

Iupiter Zvarvius, worshipped at Rome on the island in the Tiber (Dessau of. cit. 
no. 3038 (in a pavement of opus Stgninum, beneath the monastery of S. Giovanni 
Calibita, figured by F. Ritschl in the Corp. zzscr. Lat. i Tab. lithogr. lix, 4) C. Volcaci. 
C. f. har(uspex) de stipe Iovi Iurario.....[mJonimentom) and at Brixia in Cisalpine Gaul _ 
(Dessau of. czt. no. 3037 I-O.M. | Iur(ario) | d(e) c(onscriptorum) s(ententia)), was 
perhaps akin to Dius Adis, who is known to have had a cult on the Tiber-island 
(E. Aust in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. v. 1246). M. Besnier L’#le Tibérine dans 
Pantiguité Paris 1902 p. 249 ff. would identify Iupiter /zvarius with Vediovis—a view 
somewhat too decisively rejected by H. Jordan—C. Huelsen Jofographie der Stadt Rom 
im Alterthum Berlin 1907 i. 3. 636 n. 37. 








Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 727 


Such was the ancient custom. At the feet of the God of Oaths is a bronze 
tablet, with elegiac verses inscribed on it, the intention of which is to strike 
terror into perjurers},’ 


In view of the epic parallel adduced by Pausanias and of the con- 
nexion between Zeus and the boar in Crete? it may be inferred 
that the cult of Zeus Hérkzos at Olympia goes back to ‘ Minoan’ 
or sub-‘ Minoan’ times, that the duplication of his thunderbolt was 
due to primitive insistence on his power as a storm-god, and that 
any deeper ethical meaning must be attributed to moralists of a 
later age’. 


Paus. 5. 24. Q—1I trans. Sir J. G. Frazer. 

Supra i. 157, 645, 651, 652 fig. 505, 663 n. 2, 664 n. I. 

On Zeus in relation to oaths see further E. von Lasaulx Der Eid bei den Griechen 
Wiirzburg 1844 pp. 5 n. 13, 8ff., zd. Der Hid bei den Roimern Wiirzburg 1844 p. 8 ff., 
E. Ziebarth De turecurando in ture Graeco guaestiones Gottingae 1892 pp. 7, 17 ff., za. in 
Pauly—Wissowa Real- Enc. v. 2076 ff., L. Ott Bectrdge zur Kenntnts des griechischen Eides 
Leipzig 1896 p. 39 ff., G. Glotz in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iii. 748 ff., R. Hirzel 
Der Eid Leipzig 1902 pp. 121 ff., 145 n. 7, 147 Nn. I, 155 n. 1 and Index p. 225 s.v. ‘Zeus,’ 
Schrader Readlex.” p. 228 f. 

The formu/ae used by the Greeks in the affirmations of everyday life are collected and 
exemplified by P. Meinhardt De forma et usu juramentorum, quae inveniuntur in comt- 
corum Graecorum et Platonis, Xenophontis, Luciand sermone Jenae 1892 pp. 17—23: 

(1) The simple apostrophe @ Zed may be emphasised by duplication (Aristoph. Zys. 
972 & Zed Zed (so R. F. P. Brunck for & Zed 6 Zed codd.), cp. Eur. App. 1363 Led Lei, 
748° opas;), or by the addition of an epithet hieratic (e.g. «@ Zed Baowed in Aristoph. zu. 
153, vesp. 625, av. 223, ran. 1278, Plout. 1095, cp. Loukian. 7im.1 © Led pitce kal févce 
kal ératpete kal épéotie kal doteporyTa Kal dpkre Kal vepeNnyepéra Kal EpiydouTe Kai el Ti oe 
GNXo of €uBpdyrnror movnral kadodor) or otherwise (e.g. Loukian. asiz. 38 & Zed oxérhe), 

,or by both devices simultaneously (Aristoph. vesp. 323 « Led Zeb weyaBpdvra (so J. J. 
Reiske for uéya Bpévra codd.)), or by an appeal to other gods (e.g. Xen. Cyr. 2. 2. 10 @ 
Zed xal waves Geoi). 

(2) In the locution zpos (ro) Acés the article was commonly dropped. Thus Meinhardt 
records four examples of mpos rod Acés (Aristoph. 2d. 314, Loukian. 77. 16, Menzpp. 2, 
vit. auct. 22), one of w mpos rod Ards (Plout. symp. 5. 7. 4), and one of mpos roi Avs Tov- 
Numriov (Aristoph. av. 130) as against forty-five of rpds Acés, eight of & mpds Ads, and two 
of mpos Avos pidtov (Plat. AZin. 321 C, Phaidr. 234 £). 

(3) Very common are the phrases vi) (rév) Ala, vai ua (Tov) Ala, and mad (rdv) Ala, of 
which the first two are positive, the third negative. They may be strengthened either by an 
added epithet (e.g. the obvious v} tov Ala tov owrijpa in Aristoph. raz. 738, 1433, eccl. 79, 
761, 1045, 1103, Plout. 877 or the more recondite vi tov Ala rév aifépoy in Loukian. 
philopatr. 4) or by a further sanction (e.g. Aristoph. wb. 1239 ot Tor wa Tov Aia roy péyar 
kai Tous Oeows). The full phrase v7 roy Aia readily passed into vy Ala (Aristoph. vax. 305 
AI. xaréuooov. ZA. vi rov Aia. | AL. xad@is karéuocov. ZA. vy Al’. AI. buooov. ZA. v7 Ala), 
which became a commonplace of Attic oratorical style (Ath. Pal. 11. 142. 4 (Lucilius) 
kal rot ‘‘v7 Aia” Kai ‘*ua Aia”) and was even, according to some grammarians, colloqui- 
ally clipped into vi Af or vn di (Herodian. repli radGv 126" (ii. 217, 16 ff. Lentz) raca aircarcxi 
évikOv povocU\aBos apoevixh 7 Onruxy a’TH Kal’ EavTiy oboa eis V Ajyer” TO OE vip Al ovK 
avtikerrar Huiv, émerdy ody evploxerac aiTh cad’ éavtny adr’ ev ovvTdéer, zd. mepl wovorvANa- 
Bor 1 (ii. 903, 22 ff. Lentz) wav dvoua povoc’AaBov uaxpoxatadykTety GéNex cite Pioer eiTe 
Oécer...Kal xwpis Tod Al, Orep amd Tod Ala yéyove Kar’ aaroKxomnHy, Omep Kal weTa TOO v7} Emip- 
phmaros ylverat vy Ai, Choirobosk. schol. ix Theodos. Al. can. tsag. xavew apoev. § (i. 192, 


1 
2 
3 


728 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


2tf. Hilgard) ‘‘kai xwpls tod Al,” drep aad Tob Ala yéyove xara dmoxor7y, dep Kal wera 
TOO vy éemipphuaros ylverar vin Ala, 75. révos THs alrvarikis TOv évixuwy (i. 382, 8 ff. Hilgard) 
mpockera. ‘‘attn Kad’ éaurny otoa” dia 7d vh Ala* atirn yap H alriarixh ylverac Kara 
amoxorhy vi Al’, kal ldov emi dpoevixdy dvoudrwv edploxerat alriatixh wovorUANaBos wh Aj- 
youca eis v, Néyw 5 7d vip Al’* ANN’ OvK avTixerTaL Nui, érerdh odxX ebploxerar aiTh Kal’ 
€auTav adn év ouvrdger, Phot. dex. vn Al kat vy Ala éxarépws. In Aristoph. eccl. 778 f. 
au Bavew | Huds udvov dei vy Ala* kal yap ol Beot cod. R has vy dt’ (séc). Dindorf here and 
in Aristoph. eg. 319 would restore vy Al. F. Blass in R. Kiihner Ausfiihrliche Grammatik 
der griechischen Sprache® Hannover 1890 i. 177 approves the restoration. But the usage 
is at best doubtful). The elliptical vj rov—, wa rov— (Stephanus Zhes. Gr. Ling. v. 
1480 B, v. 478 B—C) are, sometimes at least, to be filled out with Ala (cp. Aristoph. Ach. 
730 val Tov Pikiov with F. H. M. Blaydes ad doc.). 

The public, as compared with the private, oath called for greater solemnity (A. Martin 
Quomodo Grect ac peculiariter Athenienses federa publica jurejurando sanxerint Paris 
1886). Accordingly, we seldom find a public oath by Zeus pure and simple (R. Heberdey 
in the Jahresh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1899 ii Beiblatt p. 48 ff. publishes an archaic inscription 
from Ephesos éyuaprupioae él rots di xdgoow, duvivra Kdmpunr 7\[d(v)] Zqva éyuapruper: 
Tov 6é x|a[m]pov mapéxev, 0 dv rd mphx|[ua....]Kre, of Suxdfovres | x.7-A.). 

More often in such a case Zeus was defined by the use of a cult-epithet (e.g. (1) Zeus 
"Oddumos in a fifth-century rhétra of Elis (W. Dittenberger and K. Purgold in Olympia 
v. 39 ff. no. 16, 11 f.=Roehl Zuscr. Gr. ant. no. 119, 11 f., id. Jmagines inscriptionum 
Grecarum antiquissimarum® Berolini 1907 p. 116 no. 16, 11 f.=F. Blass in Collitz— 
Bechtel Gr. Deal.-Jnschr. i. 318 ff. no. 1151, 11 f.= Roberts Gk. Afigr. i. 295 f. no. 298, 
rr f. with Append. p. 370 ff. éuécavres ro(r) Tov Bedv Tov ’OXUv|[rL0v]. (2) Zeus Dwr%p in 
a third-century decree of Kalaureia (Michel Recueil a’Jnscr. gr. no. 178, 28 f. = Ditten- 
berger Sy//. inscr. Gr.* no. 578, 20f.= Luscr. Gr. Pelop. i no. 841, 30f. kat moromocobyre 
tov Ala rdv Z|wrhpa). (3) Zeus pdrpros in a fourth-century enactment of the Attic phratry 
Demotionidai (Corp. znscr. Att. iv. 2 no. 841 B, 111 f.=Michel of. cit. no. 961 B, 53f. 
= Dittenberger of. cit.” no. 439, 111 f. dd\nO0H Tabra vin rov Ala Tov Pparproly, cp. 7b. 1 Ards 
Pparpio, 15 ff. Suadicdoar wepl alrav rds Ppdreplas avrixa udda, Yrocxouévos mpds Td Altds 
70 Pparplo, pépovras tiv Wipov dm\d TO Bwuo, 22 ff. dpelthérw Exarov Spaxuds iepas TH Act 
7|Ge Bparplax (so 39 f., 48 ff., 54 ff., go ff., 99 f.), 74 Kal érouvivras Tov Ala rov Ppdrprov). 

The appeal might be reinforced by the addition of other names appropriate to the place 
or occasion (e.g. (1) J. R. S. Sterrett ‘Inscriptions of Assos’ in’ Papers of the American 
School of Classical Studies at Athens 1882—1883 i. 50 ff. no. 26, 18 ff. with pl. (a bronze 
tablet recording a decree of Assos passed on the accession of Caligula in 37 A.D.) épxos 
"Agolwv. | duvupev Ala Dwrijpa kai Gedy Kaicapa DeBaorov (sc. Octavianus) cal ryv | warprov 
ayviv Tapbévoy (sc. Athena Polids) ebvonoey x.7.d. = Dittenberger Sy//. inscr. Gr.” no. 364, 
18 ff. (2) Dittenberger of. cét.? no. 234, 22 ff.= Michel Recueil d [uscr. gr. no. 187, 22 ff. 
=Inscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. ii no. 419, 22 ff. (a decree of the Messenians ¢. 240B.C.) 
[8px]\[os Mecoaviwy: duvjiw Ala "l@wudrar, “Hpaly ..... Hee eats eet eters Jov kat Oews 
opxi[ws mdavras 4] | [uav x.7.d.]. Cp. the oath of Demaratos in Hdt. 6. 67 f. ve 7G Aud 
Body: Otcas dé rhv untépa exddeoe. amikouévyn O€ TH wnTpl écbels és Tas xXElpas of TOY 
omddyxvev Kkarixéreve Néywr ToLdde* “* uArep, Oey oe THY TE d\AwY KaTaTTOopevos ikeTEdW 
kal To ‘Epxelov Avos rodde, ppdoar wor Thy adnOninv,” k.T-r.). 

When several powers are invoked, the name of Zeus normally heads the list—a pre- 
cedence dating back to epic times (//. 19. 258= Od. 19. 303 lorw viv Zebds mpGra, Oedy 
tmaros Kal dpisros, Od. 14. 158=17. 155=20. 230 lotw viv Leis mpdra Gedv). Homer, 
sometimes content with the witness of Zeus alone (Z/. 7. 411 dpxia 6é Leds lorw, épiydouros 
moots Hpns, 10. 328 larw viv Leis avrés, épiydouros méos “Hpys), more often associates 
with him either the domestic sanctities of the hearth (Od. 19. 303 f.) and table (Od. 14. 
158 f.=17. 155 f.=20. 230f.) or a variety of cosmic and chthonic divinities (Z/. 3. 276 ff. 
Zed warep, “ldndev pedéwv, xvducre, wdyiore, | Hédids 0’, bs mdvt épopas kal wavr éra- 
xovers, | kal rorapol kal yata Kal of brévepbe Kaudvras | avOpwrous Tivucbov, Sris K érlop- 
Kov dudccn, | buets paprupo gore, pudrdooere 6 Spkia misTd, 19. 258 ff. lorw viv Leds 





Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 729 


mpara...| TH re kal "Hédos Kal "Epwies, ai 0’ bd yaiav | dvOpdérous trivwwTa, Sris K 
ériopkov 6u60cyn with W. Leaf ad locc.). 

In s. iv B.c. and later the witness-group Zeus, Ge, Helios revived (?survived) in public 
contracts, usually in combination with other deities recognised by the contracting parties 
(e.g. (1) A. Wilhelm in the Jahresh. d. oest. arch. Inst. 1898 i. 149 ff. line 2f. (treaty 
between Maussollos of Karia and Phaselis in Lykia) [--—6duéo]avres Ala kal” AXwov Kal 
Dav xai | [---]. (2) Michel Recuetl ad’ Jnscr. gr. no. 1316, 1 ff.= Dittenberger Sy//. inscr. 
Gr? no. 360, 1 ff. (oath of citizens of Chersonesos Taurike c. 300—280 B.C.) duriw Ala, 
Tav, “AdXcov, Iapbévov, | [A]eods "OdXvurlous cal “Oduurias | [k]al npwas door modu Kal 
xwpav | Kal relyn éxovTe TA Xepoovaci|rav, 2b. 50f. Leb cal Va cal“ Arce [kai] | IlapOéve cal 
Geot OAvprot. (3) Michel of. czt. no. 15, 20 ff.=Dittenberger Orzent. Gr. inscr. sel. 
no. 266, 20 ff. (pact of Paramonos and other mercenary leaders with Eumenes i of Per- 
gamon) épxos év ®uocev Tapdmovos k.T....... Guvtw Ala, Div, | “Hdcov, Tocerdd, Anunrpa, 
“Apn, AOnvav’Apetay kal rhv Tavporddo[y] | kal rods dAXNous Oeods wd[v]ras kal mdoas, 20. 
51 ff. dpxos Hipévous’ duviw Alia, Aly, |“Hdcov, Wooe:d&,’Amé\dX\w, Ajjuntpa, "Apn, AOnvav 
*Apelay kal riv [Tavpord]|\ov kal rods dAXous Oeods mdvras Kal mdoas. (4) Michel of. cit. 
no. 19, 59 ff.=Dittenberger Orient. Gr. mscr. sel. no. 229, 59 ff. (alliance between Mag- 
nesia ad Sipylum and Smyrna c. middle of s. iii B.C.) dudcat dé Tods wev eu Maryryoiar 
Karoikous k.T.A.....- duvtw Ala, Djv,"HAuov,”Apn, AOnvav ’Apelav cal tiv Tavporddoy Kal 
Tale] | Mynrépa ryv Zervdnvyv kal’ AmdddAw Tov eu Idvdos kal rods dAXous Oeods rdvras Kal 
Taoas Kai THv TOD Bacttéws Dehevxou TUX HY, 20. 69 ff. dudoa dé Kal Duvpvatous Tots ard May- 
vnolas Tov dpxov | Tovde* duviw Ala, I'jv,"Hdcov,”Apn, AOnvav ’Apetay kal tiv Tavpord)\ov 
kal ry Mafrépla thy Lurvdnviy Kal’ Agdpodlrnv Zrparovixtda Kai Tovs dddous Oeods | wavTas 
kat mdoas. (5) Dittenberger Sy//. znscr. Gr.? no. 196, 38 f. (Athenian treaty of 356/5 B.C. 
with the Thracian Ketriporis, the Paeonian Lyppeios, and the Illyrian Grabos) [éuvtw Aia 
cat Dqv] cai” Hdcoy cal Wooe:[6]@ kal’ AOnvav xal | ["Apnv]. (6) Dittenberger Sy//. znscr. Gr.8 
nos. 434—435, 87f. (Athenian treaty of 266/5 B.c. with Sparta) [6uJyiw Ala, T[A]v,"Hcov, 
"Apn, ’A@nvav Ape|[iav, Tocevd&, Ajuntpav]. (7) Dittenberger Ordent. Gr. inscr. sel. no. 
532, 8f. (Paphlagonian oath of allegiance to Augustus in 3 B.C.) duvtw Ala, Tv, “Hor, 
Geods ravrals kal rd]|oas kal avrov Tov LeBao[7]év). The same group was concerned in the 
emancipation of slaves at Thermos in Aitolia (Zscr. Gr. sept. iii. 1 no. 412= Michel 
op. cit. no. 1421 = Dittenberger Sy//. inscr. Gr.” no. 837 (deed of enfranchisement, 5. ii B.C.) 
Tlodhvd(p)wv Avcou A[ivnloay rip ldiav Operr[jv] | [aanr]evddlplwoev blo] Ala, Pqv,"Hcov, 
pnde[vi] | [un]dev rpoojxovoay kata Tovs AirwX@[v] | vduous icoreAh kal €vteuov) and on the 
N. coast of the Euxine ((r) C. T. Newton 7he Collection of Ancient Greek Inscriptions in 
the British Museum Oxford 1883 ii. 38 no. 180, 8 ff.=B. Latyschev Znscripiiones antiquae 
Orae Septentrionalis Ponti Euxini Graecae et Latinae Petropoli 1890 ii. 53 ff. no. 54, 8 ff. 
(deed of enfranchisement in the reign of Sauromates (? v=231—233 A.D.), obtained at 
Kerch) wera 6é rhv [FJol[n]y query quer (sic). elvar adriy éXevdél[play bird Ala, Pqv,“Hdcor, 
averagn[y Kall | [d]vernpedorny amd 7’ éuod Kal mavros | KAnpo[y]éuov. (2) B. Latyschev 
op. ctt. ii 208 f. no. 400, 10 ff. (deed of enfranchisement in 41 A.D., with name of Polemon ii 
erased ; now at Petrograd) é¢’ @ 7 dvéma|pos kal dvernpéacro[s] | ard mavrds KAnpor[dp]\ou 
ims Ata, fv, “Hdwo[v]). At Eresos in Lesbos the judges swore by Zeus and Helios 
(F. Bechtel in Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Dzal.-Inschr. i 103 ff. no. 281 B, 54 f.= Michel of. czt, 
no. 358 C, 19 f.=Dittenberger Orzent. Gr. inscr. sel. no. 8c, 93 f. (formula of oath, end 
of s. iv B.C.) otrw mojow| val ua Ala cai "Adov). H. Usener in the Rhein. Mus. 1903 
lviii. 19 notes that in the group Zeus, Ge, Helios the sun-god is on occasion replaced by 
Apollon (R. Dareste—B. Haussoullier—T. Reinach Recuezl des inscriptions juridiques 
grecques Paris 1891 i. 158ff. no. 10 A, 4= Michel of. czt. no. 1340 A, 4 (formula of oath 
for judges at Knidos in s. ii or i B.C.) val rov Ala cal rov’’Ard\Xw Tov AdvK[cov Kal Trav Tay)). 

At Athens the same tendency to swear by sky-god, sun-god, and earth-goddess can be 
traced further back (cp. G. Hofmann De iurandi apud Athenienses formulis Strassburg 
1886 p. 27f., E. Ziebarth of. cit. p. 17 f.), the oath being by Zeus, Apollon, and Demeter 
((t) Michel of. ct. no 1428, 14 ff.=Dittenberger Sy//. inscr. Gr.® no. 41, 14 ff. (decree 
concerning Erythrai, c. 465 B.C.) Tou Bodevodvtov Exagrov ’EpvPpaor m[pily ¢ovévar [és 


730 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


rev] | [dpx]év duvivar [uév Alia xa[t]’AmddXo Kal Adue[rpa], ¢rapduevo[y €£][dd]ecav éa[vror 
émopxovre Kal mai[o]ly éavto* d[uviv jae dé Tov O[p]|[Ko]y kara [h]epov katouévoy. (2) Michel 
op. cit. no. 9, 23 f., 35 f.=Dittenberger Sy//. inscr. Gr.2 no. 151, 23 f. (treaty with Korkyra, 
375/4 B.C.) ddnOH Tatra vip 7O\[v] Ala Kal rdv’Ardddw Kal Thy Anunrpa, ib. 35 £. [adnO7H Ge 
Tai|ra v[ai Tov Ala [ka]! | [rov’Awéd\Awva Kal trav Ad]uat[pa]. (3) Corp. inscr. Alt. ii. 1 
no. 578, 11 f.= Michel of. cz¢. no. 150, 11 f. (decree of the deme Myrrhinous, s. iv B.C.) 
[vy ro[y Ala, vy r]o[v A]rdXw, v[] rH[y] | [A]ju(n)Tpa. (4) Aristoph. eg. 941 XO. eb ye 
vn Tov Ala kal tov ’Amé\d\w Kal ryv Anuntpa. (5) Dem. adv. Callipp. 9 kal wa rov Ala Kal 
Tov Amé\\w Kal riv Ajuntpa, od Wetcouat mpds buds, @ avdpes Sixacral), or by Apollon, 
Demeter, and Zeus (Demarchos frag. 89. 25 Sauppe af. schol. 2 Aischin. c. Tim. 114 
Tovs opxtovs* “Amé\Nwva ILarpwov cal Anuntpay Kal Ala, &s pnot Acivapxos 6 pjrwp. The 
same order in Poll. 8. 122 @urucay bé év "Apdjrrw dixacrynplw Amo\w ILarp@ov kal Anuntpa 
kai Ala Baothéa: but cp. Bekker anecd. i. 443, 29 ff. &v TovTw 67 TO Xwplw (sc.’ ApdnrTw) 
auvvov oi dixkacral roy dikacTiKdy dpKov. Tpets 5€ Beods Wuvvov, Aia, Anuntpay Kai” HXL0v). 
Whether this group had aé zzztio any cosmic significance is very doubtful. Zeus and 
Apollon, the ancestral gods of the Attic nobility (Aristot. ’A@. mod. 55. 3, cp. Poll. 8. 85, 
states that the archon was formally asked ed éorw atr@’ Amé\Xwy ILarpwos kal Leds ‘Epketos, 
kai mov Tatra Ta iepd éorwv), may well have codpted Demeter at the time when Eleusis was 
added to Athens (so J. Toepffer Attzsche Genealogie Berlin 1889 p. 45 n. 2, E. Ziebarth 
op. cit. p. 17). 

Another Athenian triad equally susceptible of a cosmic interpretation was Zeus, 
Poseidon, and Demeter, divinities of sky, sea, and land. ((1) The heliastic oath in Dem. 
c. Tim. 151 érouvivar Ala, Tocedd, Anunrpa: cp. schol. B. L. Z/. 15. 36 dea tpr@v dé Hv 
200s duvivat, ws Apaxwy érake, Alia, MlocedGva, AOnvav: oi dé Ata, Ilooerddva, Ajunrpar, 
ws Anuoobévns év TQ Kara Tiywoxparous. (2) H. G. Lolling in the Ath. Mitth. 1879 iv. 201 
no. 4, 16 ff.= Corp. inscr. Adt. iv. 2 no. 584¢B, 16 ff. (decree of the deme Aixone towards 
the end of s. iv B.C.) d\n@9 Taira | [v]n rov Ala, vy Tov IMo|[oe]66, vy tHv Anjunr|[pa)).- 
This group might be extended by the inclusion of Athena (Michel of. cit. no. 95, 66 ff., 
79 f.=Dittenberger Sy//. zxscr. Gr.* no. 173, 66 ff. (decree of 363/2 B.C. concerning Ioulis 
in Keos) rafra | [€umedopxjow vy Tov] Ala, vy rHv “AOnvaar, v7 Tov ILocevda, [v]in | [rnv 
Ajpnrpa], 2b. 79 f. [radra éurjedopxjow v\[y Tov Aia, vy THY AOnvaar, vn Tdv Moced, vA 
tiv A}junrpa). j 

The epic appeal to Zeus, Athena, and Apollon (szpra p. 458 n. 4) was said by some 
to be an Athenian oath (schol. A. D. 27 //. 2. 371 UWuov elvar Tov bpxov pact Trav’ APnvaiwy, 
schol. B. L. zz //. 2. 371 marpioe yap otirou rots "A@nvators Oeol, schol. T. 27 Z/. 2. 371 
marpot rots ’A@nvalois of Beol)—a statement supported by its actual occurrence in Dem. 
c. Mid. 198 éuol pév vh tov Ala cal rov ’Amd\\w Kal Thy AOnvav x.7.d. and perhaps by the 
context of Plat. Zuthyd. 302 C—D ovk éorw, qv 3 eyed, aiirn 7 émwvupla “ldvwr ovdevi, 
000” boa éx Thode THs TOAEwWS aTwKiouEevaL eloiv OO Huiv, GNA ’ATOAAWY Ilarpgos dua Thy 
Tod “Iwvos yéveow* Zeds 5’ juiv Marpw@os wév ov Kadetrat, ‘Epxetos d¢ kat Pparptos, kal A@n- 
vain Pparpla. adN apKel ye, fn 6 Atovveddwpos* or. yap cor, ws éouxev, Amo\\wY Te Kal 
Zebs cat’ A@nva. Loul. efist. 38 p. 68 Heyler torw ZLevs, istw wéyas"Hos, istw “AOnvas 
Kpatos, kal mavres Geol kal wacat, as in private duty bound (sufra i. 187), puts Helios in 
the place of Apollon. ; 

H. Usener ‘Dreiheit’ in the Rhein. Mus. 1903 lviii. 17 ff. dwells at length on the 
triplication of Greek oaths. In addition to the foregoing triads he remarks the oath of the 
Platonic witness (Plat. egg. 936 E rods Tpets Aeods Alia kat ’Awé\\wva Kal O€uw droudcas 
H phy wi eld€évac), that of the Thessalian Magnetes (Michel of. c?¢. no. 842 B, 5 ff. = Ditten- 
berger Sy/l. inscr. Gr.* no. 790, 16 54 ff. (decree of s.i B.C.) éuviw Ala Axpatoy kal rév 
*"Aré\Nw[va] | Tov Koporatov cai thy” Apreuw Thy "Iwdxlay Kal rods ad[Aous] Belovs mavras 
kai macas), that of the Delphic Labyadai (supra p. 233 n. 7), and that of the Achaean 
League (sufra i. 16). 

Finally we observe that in treaties between state and state the oath-gods of the parties 
are combined, the result being an impressive series of divine witnesses. Examples of the 
process have already been given (supra i. 149 n. 2 Latos and Olous, i. 729 n. 2 Dreros 





Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 731 


Apart from this exceptional case, it is certainly true to say that 
throughout classical times Zeus becomes less and less the impetuous 
thunderer, more and more the dignified ruler. He wields both the 
thunderbolt and the sceptre; but the former decreases, as the latter 
increases, in relative importance. , 

This may be illustrated by a short sequence of vase-paintings 
arranged in roughly chronological order. A ‘Chalcidian’ hydréa at 





» Fig. 663. 


Munich, which can be dated c¢. 550 B.c., shows Zeus attacking 
Typhon (fig. 663). The god with a mighty thunderbolt gripped by 
his strong right hand is rushing against his foe in the attitude of 
rapid movement dear to archaic art. A red-figured /ékythos at Paris, 
attributed to Hermonax, a painter of the late archaic period, repre- 
sents Zeus in pursuit of Semele(?) (fig. 664), Semele, if it be she, 


and Knossos, li. 723 n. o Hierapytna and Lyttos, etc.), and it would be easy to multiply 
the number (e.g. (1) H. G. Lolling ‘Symmachievertrag der Phoker und Béoter’ in the 
Ath. Mitth. 1878 iii. 19 ff. line 14 ff. dpxos* | [éuriw r]dv Ala rou Baowrdéa kal rpv “Hpay 
THe Bactheay kal rou Iocer|[dava cal rT]nv AOnvay kal rods &ddous Beods Tavras Kal macas. 
(2) Michel of. cat. no. 440 A, 15 ff.=Dittenberger Sy//. zuscr. Gr.? no. 427, a 15 ff. (treaty 
of s. iv B.c. between Praisos and Stelai in Crete) durtw Aj|[va Acxraiov, Ilor]evdéva, 
’"AOavay, Amd\Awva IlvA[ov], | [kai Peods mavras] kal wdoas. (3) F. Halbherr in the Am. 
Journ. Arch. 1897 i. 230 ff. no. 36, 19 ff. (treaty between Sybrita and Gortyna) [-—— AiJa 
or [Tyv]a Kpnrayevia cat [---] | [---]av « ’Aré\\wva II’[ Gov] or Iv[rvov -——-] | 
[---'A]@avatay Todoxov [---] | [---] kat Nvugars cal r[---]). 

1 Sieveking—Hackl Vasensamml. Miinchen i. 67 ff. no. 596 fig. 77 pl. 24, Furtwaingler— 
Reichhold Gr. Vasenmalere? i. 161 ff. pls. 31 and 32.¢ (=my fig. 663), E. Buschor Greek 
Vase-painting trans. G. C. Richards London rg2r p. 75 ff. pl. 34 fig. 68. Zeus is inscribed 


TEV$. He wears a fillet on his head and a ch/amzys over his shoulders. Typhon, a mon- 


strous figure with red hair and beard, has the ear of a horse, the wings of a bird, and two 
snaky tails by way of legs. He wears a short yellow-white chitén. 

2 De Ridder Caz. Vases de la Bibl. Nat. ii 362 no. 489, P. Milliet—A. Giraudon Vases 
peints du Cabinet des Médailles & Antiques (Bibliotheque Nationale) Paris 1891 vi® classe, 
xic série ii. pl. 76 (=my fig. 664), J. D. Beazley in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1914 xxxiv. 
197 n. 15 no. 6, Hoppin Rea-fig. Vases ii. 33 no. 21. 


732 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 





Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 733 


appears quaintly enough on the shoulder of the vase! as a woman 
running towards the right but looking behind her. Zeus, occupying 
the main field of decoration, advances with hasty steps, a thunder- 
bolt in his right hand, a sceptre in his left. But it is noticeable 
that, as compared with the previous design, his bolt is not brandished 
so high and his onset, motived by love not hate, is less furious. On 
a red-figured Aydrzéa at Paris, assigned by J. D. Beazley to the 
‘master of the Berlin amphora, a painter of the ripe archaic period, 


= 
—— 


AN 
. RY 
ly at 4 
we 
. See 
Alf! 8 F > 
\ 
' 






VENUAVEVONOAUOAAOO TAA UAUONAE TAD EAT TATOO ONE COON TATAEEPATE 








Fig. 665. 


the same theme of amorous pursuit is rendered with even greater 
restraint (fig. 13). The bolt is held, not in the raised right hand, 
but in the lowered left. 

Contemporary with that vase is a fragmentary krazér(?) at Paris, 
painted in all probability by the artist who worked for the potter 
Kleophrades. This noble sherd shows Hermes weighing the warrior- 
souls of Achilles and Memnon in the presence of Zeus (fig. 665)?. 

e 


1 J. D. Beazley Joc. cit. notes: ‘this is the only lekythos where the figure on the 
shoulder is related to the figure on the body.’ 

* Supra p. 27 n. 0. See J. D. Beazley ‘The Master of the Berlin Amphora’ in the 
Journ. Hell. Stud. 1911 xxxi. 294 no. 25a, id. Attic red-figured Vases in American 
Museums Cambridge Mass. 1918 p. 36, Hoppin Red-fig. Vases i. 71 no. 83. 

3 De Ridder Cat. Vases de la Bibl. Nat. ii. 279 no. 385 (‘stamnos’), J. de Witte in 
the Azz. d. Inst. 1834 vi. 296, Mon. d. Jnst. ii pl. 10, B (=my fig. 665), Reinach Rép. 
Vases i. 89, 4, Overbeck Gall. her. Bildw. i. 527 no. 65 Atlas pl. 22, 9, O. Crusius in 


734 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


The scene was drawn from the Aithiopis of Arktinos!, who made 
Eos, mother of Memnon, prevail upon Zeus to honour her slain son 
with the gift of immortality» And here she intervenes, imploring 
the dread judge? for the mitigation of his sentence. He stands by, 


Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1143 f. fig. 3, J. D. Beazley ‘ Kleophrades’ in the Journ. Hell. 
Stud. 1910 xxx. 42 no. 4, Hoppin Red-fig. Vases ii. 147 no. 34. De Witte, Reinach, de 
Ridder, and Hoppin are wrong in supposing the Yuxooracia to be that of Hektor and 
Achilles, for in that case the scales would have been held by Zeus, not Hermes (Gruppe 
Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 678 n. 6). 

1 F. G. Welcker Der efische Cyclus Bonn 1882 ii. 175, Gruppe of. ct. p. 681 n. 6. 

2 Prokl. chrestom. 2 (G. Kinkel Epicorum Graecorum fragmenta Lipsiae 1877 i 33) 
éreita ’AxuAdeds Méuvova xrelver* kal ro’rw wev "Hs mapa Avs alrnoapévn abavaclay 
dldwor. 

3 The belief that the souls of men are weighed in a balance was common to the Greeks, 
the Egyptians (s#fva p. 99 n. 1), and perhaps the Babylonians (A. Jeremias Handbuch 
der altorientalischen Geisteskultur Leipzig 1913 p. 113 f.: but see M. Jastrow Aspects 
Religious Belief and Practice in Babylonia and Assyria New York and London rg1t 
p- 363 f.). It may be connected ultimately with the custom of divining by weight (W. R. 
Halliday Greek Divination London 1913 p. 222 ff.). But the subject is deserving of 
separate investigation. 

The //zad makes Zeus himself hold the scales. He uses xptoeva...rddavra to weigh 
the fates of Trojans and Achaeans (//. 7. 68 ff.) and, again, the fates of Achilles and 
Hektor (Z/. 22. 208 ff.). The scales of Zeus were in fact already proverbial (E. Hedén 
Homerische Gotterstudien Uppsala 1912 p. 172 f.): when Sarpedon fell before Troy, even 
Hektor fled, yw@ yap Ads ipa radavra (//. 16. 658); and men weary of the fight, émqv 
kNivgot Tadavra | Leds (Z7. 19. 223 f.). Later, Zeus weighs out to men wealth or poverty 
(Theogn. 157 f. Zeds yap rot 76 radavrov emippérer dANoTE GANws, | GAAoTE pEv WAouTety, 
addote wndév €xew). Aeschylus too conceives of Zeus as holding the balance (spl. 822 f. 
ody & érimay fvyov rahay|rov), and in his Yuxocracia showed Zeus aloft on the ¢heologeion 
(Poll. 4. 130) visibly weighing on his scales the souls of Achilles and Memnon (Plout. de 
aud. poet. 2, schol. A. //. 8. 70, Eustath. iz Z/. pp. 699, 31 ff., 1266, 37 f.: see further 
Trag. Gr. frag. p. 88 f. Nauck*). Other allusions to the scales of Zeus (Iupiter) in Anzh. 
Pal. 6. 267. 3 f. (Diotimos) od yap dgaupds | éx Avds iOelns olde TddavTa Sikns, 11. 380. 3 f. 
(Makedonios) ddd kal avira radavra Avds rayxpuca TeNécOn, | olor Tadavrever TayTa VouOV 
Buérov, Nonn. Dion. 2. 553 laorvmov dé tadavta paxns éxkwe Kpoviwy, Tryphiod. exczd. 
Ll. 506 f. 75n 6€ Tpwerow dd€éOprov eiixe TadavTov | Leds raulns woréuoro, Verg. Aen. 12. 
725 f. Iupiter ipse duas aequato examine lances | sustinet, et fata inponit diversa duorum, 
with Serv. ad loc, and Macrob. Satz. 5. 13. 39. 

For Achilles and Memnon as represented in art it is always Hermes that holds the 
scales (e.g. Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1142 f. figs. 1—4). The famous ‘ Boston relief’ has 
Eros weighing two souls of men (best illustration in the Ant. Denkm. iii. 1. 5 ff. pl. 7). 
Aristophanes in raz. 797 f., 1365 ff.,—his parody of the Yuxyorracia (L. Stephani in the 
Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1873 p. 81)—makes Plouton superintend the weighing of the rival 
tragedians. A Campanian ydréa figures Aphrodite with two Erotes in her scales (Bvt. 
Mus. Cat. Vases iv. 109 f. no. F 220, F. Studniczka in the Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. 
fnst. 1911 xxvi. 139 f. fig. 58: cp. supra p. gg n. 1). Eris holds the balance for Achilles 
and Memnon in Quint. Smyrn. 2. 540 ff. Thesyncretistic Virgo weighs life and justice in 
Orelli—Henzen /mscr. Lat. sel. no. 5863, 1 ff. =Corp. inscr. Lat. vii no. 759, 1 ff. =F. 
Biicheler Carmina Latina epigraphica Lipsiae 1895 i. 15 f. no. 24, 1 ff. (Caervoran, s. 
iii A.D.) imminet Leoni Virgo caelesti situ | spicifera, iusti inventrix, urbium conditrix, | 
ex quis muneribus nosse contigit deos, | ergo eadem mater divum, Pax, Virtus, Ceres, | 
dea Syria, lance vitam et iura pensitans. Finally, Roman imperial art even descends to 
scenes of ‘ Phallenwagung’ (A. Mau in the Rom. Mitth. 1896 xi. 11 f. no. 5, F. Hettner 





— oom, 


Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 735 


a grand impartial figure, clad in chztén and himdtion, with a knotted 
staff in his left hand and a red-flaming thunderbolt in his right. 
Yet greater dignity attaches to him when he is represented, not 
only holding a sceptre, but also seated on a throne. And this very 
enthronement, by reducing his thunderbolt from an actual to a 
potential weapon (for no one sits to throw thunderbolts'), tended 
to render the god mild as well as majestic. As such he appears on 
































Fig. 666. 


vases that portray the introduction of Herakles to Olympos. A 
bell-£ratér from Gela, now at Palermo, referred by Beazley to the 
‘Altamura painter’ at the beginning of the free style’, shows Zeus 
seated on a magnificent throne and Herakles encouraged by Athena 
to draw near (fig. 666)*, The artist, who is not very adroit with the 
palmette on the throne-back, has made his Zeus clasp sceptre and 
thunderbolt in the same hand—an awkward handful‘; the thunder- 
bolt is distinctly de trop. Accordingly, on a somewhat later vase, a 


Die rimischen Steindenkmaler des Provinztalmuseums zu Trier Trier 1893 p. 186f. no. 
463 fig., F. Studniczka Joc cit. p. 139 fig. 57). 

1 Supra p. 475, infra § 9 (h) ii (4). 

, 2 J. D. Beazley Attic red-figured Vases in American Museums Cambridge Mass. 1918 
p- 144 no. to, Hoppin Rea-fig. Vases i. 24 no. 18. 

3’ H. Heydemann in the Arch. Zeit. 1870 xxviii. 43 f. no. 24 pl. 33 (=my fig. 666), 
Reinach Rép. Vases i. 408, 3. The reverse design is Zeus pursuing a woman (Semele ?). 
Height o-41™. 

4 This clumsy combination occurs first on a s¢éwenos in the Louvre (G 370) by the 
‘ Providence painter’ of the ripe archaic period (F. T. Welcker in the Azz. ad. Znst. 1861 
XXXill. 293—298, Mon. d. /nst. vi—vii pl. 58, 2=Reinach RZ. Vases i. 157, 2, J. D. 
Beazley Adtzc red-figured Vases in American Museums Cambridge Mass. 1918 p. 80 no. 43, 
Hoppin Red-fig. Vases ii. 393 no. 34). 


736 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


splendid elébe at Bologna, sceptre and phzdle are retained, but the 





bolt is omitted (fig. 667). The resultant type of benevolent majesty 


1 G. Ghirardini in the Azz. a. Just. 1880 lii. 1oo—117, Mon. d. Inst. xi pl. 19 (=my 


Fig. 667. 


Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 737 


is found again, with a suggestion of greater repose, on the bell-£ratér 
from Falerii in the Villa Giulia at Rome, a vase attributed by G. 
Nicole!, P. Ducati?, and J. C. Hoppin® to the ‘ Talos painter,’ and 
referable to the period of the Peloponnesian War (fig. 668)*. Its 
obverse design represents Herakles, his labours over at last, entering 
the presence of Zeus. Herakles is followed by Hebe, in whose ear 
Eros whispers of her coming wedlock. Hera, proud and resentful, 
will not look at Herakles, but turns her head away and addresses 
Hermes. Zeus in an attitude of dignified ease worthy of Pheidias® 
receives his heroic son. Wreath, sceptre, throne are there, and 
rightly there. But the thunderbolt would be out of place, and the 
god’s right hand is empty. 

The same transition from might to right in the popular con- 
ception of Zeus can be equally well illustrated from the remains 
of ancient sculpture. His earliest extant effigy, a bronze statuette 
from Mount Lykaion (s. vii B.C.), shows a nude bearded god standing 
erect with a thunderbolt in his raised right hand and an eagle on 
his outstretched left (supra i. 84 fig. 51). It is thus in all probability 
that we should conceive of such images as the Zeus in hammered 
gold dedicated at Olympia by Kypselos, tyrant of Corinth (655— 
625 B.C.)*, or the Zeus Hypatos in hammered bronze made by 


fig. 667), Reinach Rep. Vases i. 222, 1—5, A. Furtwangler in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 2238 f. 
fig. 

1G. Nicole Meidias et le style fleurt dans la céramique attique Geneve 1908 p. 93 ff- 
pl. 6, 3. 

2 P. Ducati 7 vasd dipinti nello stile del ceramista Midia Roma 1909 p. 50, zd. in the 
kom. Mitth. 1906 xxi. 126. 

3 Hoppin Red-fig. Vases ii. 450 no. 4. 

4 Furtwangler—Reichhold Gr. Vasenmalerei i. 87 ff. pl. 20 (=my fig. 668) Villa Giulia 
no. 2382. Height o*40™. 

5 Supra i. gt f., znfra § g (h) ii (6). , 

6 Plat. Phaedr. 2368 rapa To Kupedddv avadyua opupydatos év Odvmria ordOnre, 
Strab. 353 vy nv Kal 6 xpucois cpup/AarTos Leds, avdOnua Kuédov, rod Kopi Oiwv rupavvou, 
378 Tov d€ mepi Tov olkoy ToOTov AovTOV papTiptoy TO ’OAvmTiacy dvdOnua Kuwérov, cpv- 
pi\aTos xpvoots dvépias evueyébns. Kypselos vowed to Zeus that, if he became master of 
Corinth, he would dedicate all the property of the Corinthians. On becoming master, he 
bade them draw up a list of their possessions, took a tenth part from each citizen, and told 
them to trade with the remainder. As each year came round he did the same thing, till 
in ten years he had kept his vow (Aristot. vec. 2. 2. 1346a 32 ff.). A Platonic gloss in 
Phot. dex. s.v. KuWeiddv avdOnua=Souid. s.v. Kupedrddv avadnua quotes further from 
Agaklytos rept Oduurlas (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 288 Miiller) the statement that the golden 
colossus dedicated by Kypselos was kept in the old temple of Hera, from Didymos a 
moralising account to the effect that Periander made the colossus in order to limit the 
luxury and audacity of the Corinthians, from Theophr. epi carpOv 2 (frag. 128 Wimmer) 
a similar allusion, and finally a current epigram (Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. i. 4) on the 
colossus ed wy (so Cobet for e(ui Phot., adrds Souid.) éya xpucots cpupydarés elu Kodoaads, | 
éfddys eln KupeddGv yeved together with the variant given by Apellas Pontikos frag. 6 
(Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 307 Miiller) ef wy (so Cobet for edui) éyw vacrds (so S. A. Naber for 


ome 47 


ion of the thunderbolt 


inat 


738 Gradual elim 





"999 “Sly 


me al 
a 


NTT WaW WN TAT TWN CL 





Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 739 


Klearchos of Rhegion (¢ 520 B.C.) and still to be seen at Sparta in 
the time of Pausanias’. Klearchos was said to have learnt his craft 
from the Cretans Dipoinos and Skyllis; and the type that he em- 
ployed for Zeus was presumably descended from that of the 
‘Minoan’ fighter with right hand raised to hurl the lance and left 
outstretched to carry the shield’. 

When archaic sculpture shook off the trammels of strict fron- 
tality (c. 500 B.C.), one of the first types to attain comparative 
freedom was that of the fighting-man. A small bronze from Dodona? 
shows him in full armour advancing against the foe, his right arm 
raised for a spear-thrust, his left extended to support a notched 
shield. The type again served to represent Zeus the thunderer. 
Another brilliant little bronze from Dodona (fig. 669)‘, detailed and 
delicate work, the colour of lapis lazuli, gives us Zeus in a similar 
pose as conceived by some Aeginetan artist c. 490 B.C. Statuettes 
of the sort were multiplied during the early decades of the fifth 
century (supra i. 84 ff. figs. 52—54), the outstretched hand of the 


vazos Phot., Nagévos Souid.) mayxpiceds elusKodooods, | k.7.A. The schol. Plat. Phaedr. 
p- 962 a 44 ff. asserts that the sons of Kypselos, when driven out by the Corinthians, 
vowed that, if they recovered their power, they would dedicate to the god at Olympia xpu- 
cov dvopidvra...6ddcpupov. Hence in fulfilment of their vow avé0ecav éxetoe uéyiorov dyahua 
xXpucoby Tob Aids. Ephoros frag. 106 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 262 f. Miiller) af. Diog. Laert. 
I. 96 made Periander vow that, if he won a victory with a four-horse chariot at Olympia, 
he would dedicate xpucotv dvépidvta. He won; but, being short of gold and seeing the 
women’s trinkets at some Corinthian festival, he appropriated their ornaments and so sent 
his promised offering. Paus. 5. 2. 3 has yet another yarn. Kypselos dedicated the golden 
image to Zeus at Olympia, but died before he had carved his own name onit. The 
Corinthians begged leave of the Eleans to grave on it the name of Corinth and, when met 
by a refusal, showed their anger by warning the Eleans to keep away from the Isthmian 
games. 

From all this we gather that the archaic Zeus of beaten gold was a standing statue of 
large size, unaccompanied by an inscription, but traditionally connected with Kypselos or 
his sons and widely known as 70 KupeddGv avaOnua (2a hexameter tag). It was kept in 
the Heraion and, if it still existed in Pausanias’ day, a description of it may have stood in 
the /acuna (Paus. 5. 17. 4) immediately preceding his description of Kypselos’ chest (so 
A. Flasch in Baumeister Devkm. ii. 1104 n. 2: other views in the ed. of Pausanias by 
H. Hitzig and H. Bliimner (Lipsiae rgor) ii. 287). 

1 Paus. 3. 17. 6 rs Kadktolkou dé ev deka Ards dyahua ‘Lrdrov memolnra, madavdratov 
mdvtwy ombca éotl xadkod* d¢ Sov yap ovK aT eipyacpuévorv, éAnrapévou dé idia Trav 
pepOv Kab’ abrd Exdorou cuvjppooral Te mpds dAAna, Kal Hoe guvéXovoew ara uh OiahvOFvac. 
Knréapxov 5€ dvdpa ‘Pnyivoy ro tiyadua morqoar Néyouow, dv Acroivov kal ZKUAdOos, of dé 
avrot Aadddou daciv civar padnrny. 

2 £.g. Perrot—Chipiez Hist. del’ Art vi. 752, 757 fig. 353, 758 fig. 354, Sir A. J. Evans 
in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1got xxi. 125 fig. 15, 126 fig. 16. 

3 R. Engelmann in the Arch, Zett. 1882 xl. 23—27 pl. 1, S. Reinach in O. Rayet 
Monuments de Tart antique Paris 1880 i pl. 17, t with text p. 5 ff, R. Kekulé von 
Stradonitz and H. Winnefeld Bronzen aus Dodona in den kiniglichen Museen zu Berlin 
1909 pp. 13—I9 pl. 2. 

4 Eid. ib. pp. 6—12 pl. 1 (part of which=my fig. 669), swfrai. 86 n. 3. 


Af 2 


740 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


god being often used to carry his eagle. So, for example, in the 
case of a statue seen by Pausanias! at Olympia : 


‘A little farther on is a Zeus turned towards the rising sun, holding a bird 
meant for an eagle and a thunderbolt in the other hand. On his head too is set 





Fig. 669. 


a wreath, and its flowers are lilies”. It is an offering of the Metapontines, the 
work of Aristonous an Aeginetan. We do not know who was the master of this 
Aristonous, nor what was his date.’ 


H. Brunn* and J. Overbeck‘ were probably right in contending 
AP AUS, eaoy22 he 2 Supra i. 622 n. to. 


3-H. Brunn Geschichte der griechischen Kiinstler Stuttgart 1853 i. 96. 
4 Overbeck Gr. Kiunstmyth. Zeus p. 16 f. 


Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 741 


that the statue in question was made before the loss of Aigina’s 
independence in 458 B.c. And there is much to be said for E. 
Babelon’s! conjecture that it furnished the reverse design of certain 
‘rare Olympian statéres (figs. 670—672) referred by C. T. Seltman? 
to the periods ¢. 471—c. 452 and c. 452—c. 432 B.C. respectively®. 


j 
4 

{| © 
i\< 
ae 
ils 
Hh. 





Fig. 671. 


The statue of Zeus /thomdtas, which Hageladas made for the 
Messenians of Naupaktos‘, presumably not before 455 B.C.°, seems 
to have perpetuated the type of the striding antagonist. For silver 
coins of Messene struck c. 369—330 (fig. 673)* and ¢. 330—280 B.C. 


* Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 1. 885 ff. no. 1254 pl. 39, -1 (Berlin)=my fig. 672, 
no. 1255 pl. 39, 2 (Paris). 

> C. T. Seltman ‘The Temple Coins of Olympia’ in Momisma 1913 viii. 24, 35 f. 
no. 37 pl. 2, ABa (Paris), 41 ff. no. 72 pl. 3, APBy (Weber), no. 73 pl. 3, AQBy (Berlin). 
Mr Seltman is certainly right in regarding the reverse type of no. 72 f. as a ‘restitution’ of , 
no. 37. I figure the Paris and McClean specimens of the earlier coin and the Berlin specimen 


of the later. The legend WWOA|TWVAO is for Ow mixdv (dydvev) or (4OXwv) : see 


A. Lambropoulos in the Zeztschr. f. Num. 1895 xix. 210, E. Babelon Joc. cét. p. 893, and 
C. T. Seltman oc. cit. p. 41. 

3 Similar to the work of Aristonous in all probability was the image of Zeus, seven 
cubits high, holding an eagle in one hand, a thunderbolt in the other, dedicated at Olympia 
by the Leontines Hippagoras, Phrynon, and Ainesidemos (Paus. 5. 22. 7 with Sir J. G. 
Frazer ad loc.). If Olympia v. 735 f. no. 838 A|N[---] is really part of its base, we 
must refer the image to the archaic period. 

4 Paus. 4. 33. 2 70 6€ dyadua Tod Atos “Ayerdda pév eat epyov, émornOn dé é& apxAs 
Tois oiknoacw ev Navraxrm Meconviwy. iepeds d¢ aiperos kara eros Exacrov exer Td dyahpa 
éml rHs olklas (Clavier cj. év 7H olkia, cp. Paus. 3. 13. 3). dyouoe dé Kal éoprhy éérevov 
"T@wuata (Nilsson Gr. Feste p. 32)* TO 6€ dpxatov Kal ayGva érlOecov movorkijs. «.T.D. 
Supra i. 121 f., efra Append. B Messene. 

_> In 455 B.C. the Messenians besieged by the Lacedaemonians on Mt Ithome quitted 
their stronghold and settled at Naupaktos, a town given them by the Athenians, who had 
wrested it from the Ozolian Locrians (Paus. 4. 24. 6f.). These Messenians doubtless 
commissioned Hageladas to make a statue of Zeus /thomdtas, to whose protection they 
were so deeply indebted, and brought it with them on their ultimate return to Messene, 
the new city founded by Epameinondas in 369 B.c. (E. Pfuhl in Pauly—Wissowa Real- 
Enc. vii. 2193). 

6 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus p. 109 pl. 22, 1 (=my fig. 673), Head Coins of 
the Ancients p. 46 pl. 23, 35, zd. Hist. num.” p. 431 fig. 236, P. Gardner 7ypes of Gk. 
Corns pp. 156, 159 pl. 8, 25, Imhoof-Blumer and P. Gardner Mum. Comm. Paus. ii. 67 f. 


pl Pia 


742 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


(fig. 674)! show a bearded Zeus advancing to the right in the same 
pose and with the same attributes. The sturdy god of the earlier 
coin and the sinewy god of the later enable us to catch something 
of the qualities of the famous® Argive sculptor, the teacher of both 
Polykleitos and Myron. Another statue made by him for the in- 





Fig. 675. Fig. 676. 


habitants of Aigion in Achaia, who worshipped Zeus under the 
remarkable appellation of Pazs*, represented the god—to judge from 
coppers of the town issued after 146 B.C. (figs. 675—678)* and again 
in imperial times (figs. 679, 680)’—as a beardless youth advancing 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus p. 110 pl. 22, 6 (=my fig. 674) and 7, Head 
Coins of the Ancients p. 64 pl. 32, 24, 2d. Hist. num.” p. 432 fig. 237, P. Gardner Zyfes 
of Gk. Coins p. 202f. pl. 12, 47, Imhoof-Blumer and P. Gardner um. Comm. Paus. ii. 
67f. pl. P, 5. 

2 Bronze pieces of Messene repeat the type (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus 
p- 110 ff. pl. 22, 5, 1of., 15, unter Cat. Coins ii. 143 f. pl. 38, 20, Head Azst. num.” 
Pp. 432). 

3 A. Frickenhaus ‘ Hageladas’ in the Jahré. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1911 xxvi. 
24 ff. attributes the statue of Zeus /thomdtas to a younger Hageladas, supposed grandson 
of the famous sculptor, working c. 450 B.C. 

4 Frickenhaus Joc. cit. p. 30 f. refers this statue too to his younger Hageladas. 

> Paus. 7. 24. 4 @ore 6€ kal Gdd\a Alyedow aydduara yadrkod reromuéva, Zevs Te 
gruklav mais kal “Hpaxdjs, ovd€ ovTos éxwy mw yévera, Avyeddda Téxvn TOD ’Apyelov. Tovro.s 
Kara éros iepets aiperol yivovra, kal éxarepov (so H. Hitzig for éxdrepa codd.) ra&v dyak- 
pate émt THs olklas (so H. Hitzig for él rats olklars codd.) méver Tod iepwuévou (so ed. 
Ald. for iepoumévov codd.). ra dé ére madatbrepa mpoexéxpito éx TGv maldwy icpacbar rw~ Adi 
6 vik@v Kadder* dpxouévwy Jé air@ yevelwy és ddNov Tatda 7 éml TH KaANEL mETHEL TLLWI. 

6 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus p. 18 pl. 4, 12 (=my fig. 675) and 14 (=my 
fig. 677), Imhoof-Blumer and P. Gardner Mum. Comm. Paus. ii. 84 f. pl. R, 12, Head 
Hist. num.” p. 413. Fig. 676 is from an uncatalogued specimen in the British Museum, 
and fig. 678 from another in my own collection. 

? Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus p. 19 pl. 4, 17 (=my fig. 679), J. N. Svoronos 
in the Journ. Intern. d’Arch. Num. 1899 ii. 302 pl. 14, 11, W. Wroth in the Mum. 





Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 743 


in the old familiar scheme. Since Zeus /thomdtas' and Zeus Paés? 
were alike kept in the house of their priest, who held office for a 
year only*, we must suppoge that they were statues of manageable 
weight, life-sized figures of thin beaten bronze at the most‘. 





Zeus militant with bolt and bird occurs sporadically throughout 
the classical period. He appears in this guise, now as a bronze 
statuette®, now in a vase-painting®, now again as a coin-type’, now 


Chron. Fourth Series 1902 ii. 323 f. no. 13 pl. 15, 13 (=my fig. 680), Imhoof-Blumer and 
P. Gardner Mum. Comm. Paus. ii. 84 f. pl. R, 13, Head Hest. nem." p. 413. 

1 Supra p. 741 Ne 4. 2 Supra p. 742 0. 5. 

3 On the possible implications of such an annual tenure see Fo/k-Lore 1904 xv. 394 ff. 

4 FE. Pfuhl in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. vil. 2193. 

5 Miss C. A. Hutton in the Anz. Brit. Sch. Ath. 1896—1897 iii. 149 ff. pl. 10, 1 (in 
the collection of M. Cambanis, Athens. Right arm broken off. Height o°126™). See 
also Reinach 2ép. Stat. iil. 1 nos. 4, 5, 7. 

6 Supra i. 39f. fig. 11. 

7 (x) On coppers of Kierion in Thessaly, struck after ¢. 350 B.C. (Avit. Mus. Cat. 
Coins Thessaly etc. p. 15 pl. 31, 2, Head Hist. num.” p. 293). 
(2) Ona silver coin of Akarnania, struck c. 250 (?)—167 B.C. 
(F. Imhoof-Blumer in the Mam. Zeitschr. 1878 p. 30f. pl. 1, 
5, Head Ast. num.? p. 333). (3) On a Cretan hzstophdros 
(supra 1. 402f. fig. 300). (4) On a silver coin of Tabai in 
Karia, struck in early imperial times (A77¢. Mus. Cat. Coins 
Caria, etc. p. 162 pl. 25, 8, Head ist. num.? p. 626). (5) On 
coppers of Attouda in Karia, struck in the time of Septimius 
Severus (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Caria, etc. p. 65 pl. ro, 16, 
Head Ast. num.” p. 611). (6) On a copper of Kyzikos, 
struck in imperial times (Aznter Cat. Coins ii. 267 no. 19). 
(7) On a copper of Ephesos, struck by Salonina (fig. 681 from 
a specimen in my collection). (8) On a copper of Pautalia in Thrace, struck by Caracalla 





744 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


on a gem!. From time to time efforts were made to soften the rude 
force of his archaic pose. A little bronze in the British Museum 
(fig. 682)? wraps a chlamys about his arfn. A red-figured amphora 





Fig. 682. 


formerly in the Pourtalés collection (fig. 683)? gave him a chzéén as 
well as a small Azmdtion. But the Hellenic Zeus never took kindly 
to the chztén‘, and such a garb (where not a mark of foreign 


(Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. Suppl. ii. 392 no. 1133). (9) On a copper of Serdike in 
Thrace, struck by Caracalla (G. Seure in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 240). 

1 Reinach Pierres Gravées p. 134 no. 1, 4 pl. 123 (cornelian in the collection of the 
duc d’Orléans with an affected, archaistic version of the type—Zeus on tiptoe, etc.). 

2 H. B. Walters in the Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 172 no. 927. Restored: right leg 
below knee; left foot and ankle. Height 3% ins. Fig. 682 is from a photograph by 
Mr W. H. Hayles. 

3 J. J. Dubois Description des antiques faisant partie des collections de M. le comte de 
Pourtales-Gorgier Paris 1841 p. 27 no. 123 fig., O. Jahn in the Aun. d. Just. 1869 xli. 
181, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 365 no. 18, Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke Azz. 
Denkm. i. 29 pl. 2, 9 (=my fig. 683). 

4 In Z/. 5. 733 ff. =8. 384 ff. Athena, when she arms herself for the fray, puts off her 
own fép/os and puts on the chitén of Zeus. The passage was admired in antiquity (Eustath. 


Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 745 


manners') must be viewed as a concession to the increasing luxury 
of the age. 

In general, the striding god was superseded either by the stand- 
ing or by the seated god. The transition from stride to stand can 
be well seen in a Greek bronze from the Peloponnese, now at Paris 
(fig. 684)%, The left arm with the eagle is still outstretched, but the 
right with the thunderbolt is already lowered. 











Fig. 683. 


A whole group* of bronze statuettes, presupposing a famous 
original statue, represents Zeus standing in an attitude that bespeaks 
both strength and tranquillity. A large chlamys falling over the left 
shoulder serves to set off his powerful chest. His right arm, grasping 
the bolt, has dropped to his side. His left, bent at the elbow, held a 
long sceptre. The finest extant example of this type, which derives 
from some great Attic sculptor of the fifth century‘, is in the Uffizi 


im Il. p. 599, 32 ff.) and even allegorised (2d. 2d. pp. 600, 3 ff., 719, 21 ff.); but later 
parallels appear to be lacking. 

Greek sculptors rarely represented Zeus in chitén and himdtion (supra i. 86f. fig. 55 
a seated statuette in bronze from Mt Lykaion, ¢. 550—500B.C.). Greek vase-painters, 
however, often did so: cp. Spartan vases (‘ Laconian iv’) c. 550—500 B.C. (supra i. g2f. 
fig. 65, 782 pl. xlii) and Attic vases both black-figured (e.g. zzfra § g (h) ii (@)) and red- 
figured (¢.9. supra i. 707 n. 2 fig. 524, ii. 24 fig. 10, 273 fig. 177, 733 ff. fig. 665f.). See 
further Overbeck Gr. Kumnstmyth. Zeus p. 32f., p. 124 ff. nos. 19—21, p. 129 no. 24, 
p- 181 ff. A—D, Farnell Cults of Gk. States i. 124, 133. 

1 Z£.g. Zeus Sarapis (supra i. 188 f. fig. 137), lupiter Heliopolitanus (i. 570 ff. pl. xxxiil, 
fig. 440 ff.), the Syrian Zeus (i. 590 fig. 452), Zeus Dolzchaios (i. 606 f. fig. 478, cp. p. 611 ff. 
fig. 480 ff.), Zeus at Maionia (i. 731 f. fig. 540), Zeus Katazbdtes at Kyrrhos (ii. 16 fig. 3 f.), 
Zeus Sabézios (ii. 282 n. 2 pl. xix, fig. 179 f.), Zeus at Laodikeia (ii. 319 f. fig. 201 ff.), the 
Carian Zeus (ii. 573 ff. fig. 475 ff., 593 fig. 497, 597 f. pl. xxviil), etc. 

2 De Ridder Cat. Bronzes du Louvre i. 25 no. 128 pl. 14 (=my fig. 684), Reinach 
Rép. Stat. ii. 1 no. 3. Height: o°115™. 

8 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 145—147 (‘Achte Gruppe’) nos. 45—54. 

4 Witness the mild, majestic face with its abundant but not over-abundant tresses, the 
head turned towards the supporting leg, the correct and clearly-marked musculature of 


746 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


at Florence (pl. xxxi)!.. Later modifications of the type made less of 





Fig. 684. 


the ch/amys (fig. 685 and pl. xxxii, 1)® or dispensed with it altogether, 


the body, the left leg flexed and turned outwards, the proportion of the head to the whole 
height, etc. If we may base an opinion on this superb bronze, the original must have 
been a masterpiece worthy of Pheidias himself. 

1 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 145 f. no. 46 fig. 17 (=my pl. xxxi), A. Baumeister 
in his Denkm. ili. 2127 f. fig. 2384, W. Amelung Florentiner Antiken Miinchen 1893 p. 10, 
Reinach 7é. Stat. ii. 9 no. 7. Height: 0°28™. 

2 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 147—149 (‘ Neunte Gruppe’) nos. 55—63. 

Fig. 685 is a fine bronze from Paramythia, now in the British Museum (H. B. Walters 
Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 36 no. 275 pl. 7, 1, id. British Museum: Select Bronzes 
London rg1t5 pl. 20 with text, Clarac Mus. de Sculpt. iii. 48 pl. 403 figs. 687, 687 A= 
Reinach 4é/. Stat. i. 189 no. 3), after a photograph by Mr W. H. Hayles. Height: 72ins. 
Patina: light green. A. S. Murray Greek Bronzes London 1898 p. 8t pl. 3 claimed this 
statuette as belonging to ‘the school of Lysippos.’ Cp. with it another from the same 
locality, preserved at Constantinople and published by M. Collignon in the Az/. Corr. 
ffell. 1885 ix. 42—45 pl. 14. 

Pl. xxxii, 1 is a small silver statuette (height : 0°065™, with base o°1™) found by a vine- 
grower at Macon in 1764 together with other statuettes in the same metal and about 
30,000 gold and silver coins, mostly of imperial date, but none later than Gallienus (260— 
268A.D.). Nine of the statuettes, including this one, are now in the British Museum 
(Brit. Mus. Cat. Silver Plate p. 8 no. 27 pl. 6). The thunderbolt of Zeus has a lotus-bud 
towards either end. Beside the god is a she-goat (Amaltheia ?): cp. supra i. 52 fig. 28, 
706 fig. 522. Pl. xxxii, 1 is from a photograph by Mr R. B. Fleming. 





Plate XXX|I 





Bronze statuette of Zeus in the Uffizi at Florence. 
See page 745 f. 





Plate XXXII 





I 2 


1 Silver statuette from Macon, now in the British Museum: 
Zeus standing with a she-goat (Amaltheia ?) at his side. 

See page 746 n. 2. 

2 Silver-gilt statuette from Macon, now in the British Museum: 


Zeus enthroned. 
See page 755- 


. .  & pee! 





Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 747 


but tended to move the right hand from the side and raised the left 





arm higher in order to obtain a more imposing effect (fig. 686). The 


1 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 150—152 (‘Elfte Gruppe’) nos. 66—72 with 
fig. 18. I illustrate Overbeck’s no. 69 from Babelon—Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. 
Nai. p. rf. no. 3 fig. (=my fig. 686). This is a statuette of praiseworthy Roman style. 
Its eyes were inlaid with silver, its nipples with red copper. Height: 0°166™. Patina: 
brown. It was found in 1763 at Chalon-sur-Saéne, in an oaken box along with seventeen 
other bronzes, by a peasant at work on his vineyard. For other examples of careful 
Roman art see von Sacken Ant. Bronzen Wien i. g pl. 7,6=Reinach Rép. Stat. ii. 4 no. 3, 


748 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


result was merely that the grand degenerated into the grandiose. 
Another sort of degeneracy produced the eclectic type of a Graeco- 


dy 
I 





Fig. 686. 


Roman bronze in the British Museum (fig. 687)". The beardless face 


Einzelaufnahmen no. 1452 with Text v. 105 by H. Bulle=Reinach AZ. Séat. iii. 2 no. 7, 
etc. The finest figure of the sort is a bronze in the Antiquarium at Munich, which H. Bulle 
in Roscher Lex. AZjth. iii. 2884 f. fig. 16 and in his Der schoene Mensch im Altertum® 
Muenchen—Leipzig 1912 p. 13 pl. 59 regards as a Greek ‘ Poseidon’ of 400—350 B.C. 
Fine too is another in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, which Miss G. M. A. 
Richter in the Bzdlletin of the Metropolitan Museum of Art 1907 ii. 18—20 fig. 4 and in 


her Cat. Bronzes New York p. 67 f. no. 110 fig. likewise takes to be a ‘ Poseidon (?),’ by . 


‘the school of Lysippos.’ 
1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 172 no. 930. Height: 3$ins. Fig. 687 is from a photo- 
graph by Mr W. H. Hayles. 


-— 2 Aa 


ee 


ss...” 


Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 749 


recalls Hageladas’ Paés'. The pose is that of a Polyclitan doryphéros, 
though the left hand, which should carry the spear, is empty and 
meaningless. The hip is thrown out @ Za Praxiteles. The propor- 
tions are Lysippian. And the action of this tasteless aggregate is 





Fig. 687. 


as insipid as its composition: the would-be deity holds out his 
thunderbolt like a shopman offering his wares. 

Meantime increasing mansuetude had transferred the bolt from 
the right hand, which could use it, to the left hand, 
which could not. That is the case with another small 


1 Supra p.742f. A chalcedony at Berlin (Furtwangler Geschnite. 
Steine Berlin p. 246 no. 6714 pl. 48, zd. Ant. Gemmen i pl. 43, 44 
(=my fig. 688: scale 2), ii. 207) has a youthful Zeus with a sceptre in 
his raised right hand, a thunderbolt in his lowered left. Furtwangler 
justly remarks: ‘statuarisches Motiv ;.:.polykletisierende K6rperfor- 
men.’ 





750 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


group’ of figures in marble and bronze. Of these the most interesting 


























i Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth, Zeus p. 149 f. (‘Zehnte Gruppe’) nos. 64 and 65. 


Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 751 


is a bronze statuette at Vienna (fig. 689)!, which shows the god, 
associated with two little Lares, as the kindly 
guardian of a Roman house. His thunderbolt, 
despite its size, is reduced to the veriest sym- 
bol, a spiral ornament, a quaint old-fashioned 
curio. 

Less formidable than the thunderbolt, but 
still reminiscent of the thunder, was the eagle? 
sometimes carried on the sky-god’s hand. For 
standing figures as represented in sculpture® 
this type was not common, being confined to 
late reliefs? and bronzes (fig. 690)°. But it had 


1 Von Sacken Ant. Bronzen Wien i. 6f. pl. 1 (=my 
fig. 689), Reinach Ré&. Stat. ii. g no. 6. Height: o175™. 
Patina: grey-green. This remarkable bronze was found in 
1830 beside a spring near Verona together with a seated 
Hermes (von Sacken of. cz¢. i. 49 f. pl. 20), two water-carriers z 
(zd. 26. i. 109 f. pl. 44, 2), and two small lamps of acanthus- Fig. 690. 
pattern—the furniture of a /ararium hardly to be dated 
earlier than ¢. 150—200A.D. Iupiter, for so we must call him, stands on a semi-octagonal 
base or larophorum (cp. Dessau Znser. Lat. sel. no. 4106, 4 f. with E. Saglio in Daremberg— 
Saglio Dict. Ant. iii. g50 fig. 4352), the front of which forms a rounded niche. Beside 
him a tree-trunk, hollowed at the top, served as a thurible (?) (von Sacken thought it a 
stoup for holy water). On one side of the niche a short pillar supports the moulding. On 
the other side, in place of the pillar, was found a little Lar (0°045™ high) holding rhytén 
and sz¢zda. In the niche sits, and doubtless sat, a second Lar stretching his right hand 
in supplication towards Iupiter. 

> Plin. zat. Azst. 10. 15 negant umquam solam hanc alitem fulmine exanimatam. ideo 
armigeram Iovis consuetudo iudicavit (cp. 2d. 2. 146), interp. Serv. 2 Verg. Aen. 1. 394 
aut quia nec aquila nec laurus dicitur fulminari ideo Iovis ales aquila, Iovis coronam 
lauream accepimus. On the eagle as lightning-bearer see D’Arcy W. Thompson 4 Glossary 
of Greek Birds Oxford 1895 pp. 2, 8, O. Keller Zhiere des classischen Alterthums in 
culturgeschichtlicher Beziehung Innsbruck 1887 p. 238 ff., zd. Die antike Tierwelt Leipzig 
1913 p- 2, E. Oder in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. i. 374, H. Usener in the Rhezn. Mus. 
1905 lx. 24 ff. (=zd. Kleine Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 1913 iv. 491 ff.). The most learned 
account of the eagle in antiquity is still S, Bochart Herozoicon rec. E, F. C. Rosenmiiller 
Lipsiae £794 ii. 739—770. 

8 As a coin-type, however, it is fairly frequent from the age of Alexander onwards : 
see the lists in K. Sittl Der Adler und die Welthkugel als Attribute des Zeus (supra i. 46 
n. 2) Leipzig 1884 pp. 22f., 27 f. Examples in Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus Miinztaf. 
2, 18—21, 24, 28f. 

+ Supra i. 731 f. fig. 540. 

> Eagle in the right hand of Zeus: (1) at Vienna (von Sacken of. ct. i. ro pl. 2, 5 
(=my fig. 690), Reinach Rép. Stat. ii. 7 no. 7. Height o'06™). (2) at Mont Joux 
(H. Meyer Die vimischen Alpenstrassen in der Schweiz Zurich 1861 p. 126 pl. 2, 6, 
Reinach Rép. Sat. ii. 8 no. 6). (3) in the Pierpont Morgan collection (Le AZusée 1907 iv. 
140, Reinach Rég. Stat. iv. 7 no. 1). (4) in the P. du Chatellier collection, Cléden in 
Brittany (Reinach 2ég. Staz. ii. 6 no. 1). 

Eagle in the left hand of Zeus: (1) at Cologne (Reinach Ré. Stat. iii. 1 no. 3 ‘Zeus?’). 
(2) Bronze relief from Chalkedon (C. Friederichs KVeinere Kunst und Industrie im Alter- 
thum Diisseldorf 1871 no. 1866). Cp. szpra p. 246f. fig. 164. 





752 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


a long ancestry behind it! and its hold upon life must be attributed 
to the obscure persistence of early ideas. From the first the eagle 
appearing far up in the blue® was a visible manifestation, nay an 
actual embodiment, of Zeus*. To the last it remained his animal 
counterpart, born when he was born‘ and throughout associated with 





Fig. 691. 


> K, Sittl op. cit. pp. 3—42. 


him in a hundred ways’. 
In the absence of both 
thunderbolt and eagle it is. 
often difficult to decide 
whether an erect bearded 
god was meant for Zeus or 
Poseidon. Butamagnificent 
bronze from Paramythia, 
now in the British Museum 
(fig.691)*, was rightly judged 
by E. Braun’, J. Overbeck’, 
and K. Wernicke® to be a 
representation of the former 


1 Supra i. 84 f. figs. 51, 53. 

2 Cp. the grand picture of an 
eagle’s flight in Apul. for. 2. When 
Apuleius describes how the great 
bird swoops down /ilm:znis vicem, 
we are reminded of Tennyson’s 
fragment Zhe Hagle 6 ‘And like a 
thunderbolt he falls.’ 

3 Supra p. 186 ff. 

4 Apostol. 8. 28 Zeds aerév eleTOo- 
émt Trav \vovreAn Kal Kaha éExNeyoue- 
vuw* éyeTat yap Kata Thy Tov Atos 
yévynow Tov aerov yevynOjvar, év be 
TH mpds Tiyavtas waxy maparrivac: 
dubmrep €v TH dtaveunoer Tay mrnvav 
Leds derov eidero, @ kal mpootdocer 
kal ayyé\w xpijrat mpos éxelvous, obs 
emtpavelas agétoc (= Arsen. viol. p. 260 
Walz), schol. Z/. 8. 247, 24. 293, 
Eustath. zz 77. p. 1351, 29 ff., ed. 
Gud. p. 11, 46 ff. See also pseudo- 
Eratosth. catast. 30, Hyg. poet. astr. 
2. 16, schol. Caes. Germ. Avatea 
p. 411, 16 ff. Eyssenhardt. 


6 H. B. Walters Brzt. Mus. Cat. Bronzes pp. xiv, 36 no. 274 pl.6, 2. Height: 8§ ins., 


with base (ancient) tof ins. Patina: dark green. 
Mr W. H. Hayles. 


Fig. 691 is from a photograph by 


7 E. Braun Vorschule der Kunstmythologie Gotha 1854 p- 9 pl. 13. 


8 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 153 no. 74. 


® Miiller—Wieseler—Wernicke Ant. Denkm. i. 22 f. pl. 2, 2. 


Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 753 


deity. The right hand probably held a long sceptre, the left a 
phidle?; and Zeus was conceived as the propitious recipient of his 
worshipper’s oblation. The statuette, which in style is post-Lysippian, 
may well have been a votive object in the neighbouring precinct at 
Dodona. 

The seated types of Zeus are of interest in relation to the work 
of Pheidias. That great craftsman never lost touch with the past 
and knew well how to appeal to local sentiment by taking accepted 





Fig. 6y2. Fig. 693. 


forms and transmuting them into something higher with a touch of 
his own genius. A Pheidiac masterpiece is always on the one side 
the last term of a creative series, on the other the first term of an 
imitative series. For example, Zeus enthroned with a thunderbolt in 
his right hand and a sceptre in his left was an old Attic type*® taken 
over by Pheidias from the vase-painters‘ and ennobled to serve as the 
centre-piece of the eastern pediment of the Parthenon (pl. xxxiii)°*. 


1 A. S. Murray Greek Bronzes London 1898 p. 76 ff. fig. 32 says ‘ Poseidon,’ H. B. 
Walters /oc. cit. and in his British Museum: Select Bronzes London 1915 pl. 19 with text 
‘ Poseidon (?),’ H. Bulle in Roscher Zex. Myth. iii. 2885 ‘die Beziehung auf Poseidon 
nicht...sicher... Diese Figur konnte auch fiir Zeus gehalten werden.’ 

2 The fore-finger and the little finger of the left hand, contracted and drawn towards 
each other, might have held a phzd/e, but could hardly have clasped a model dolphin or 
tunny. K. Wernicke /oc. ci¢. suggests an eagle or a Nike: so far as I can judge from a cast 
of the statuette, a A#zd/e seems more likely. 

3 £.g. (1) An early black-figured amphora with the birth of Athena (Brit. AZus. Cat. 
Vases ii 103 ff. no. B 147, W. Henzen in the Azz. ad. ust. 1842 xiv. go—103, Mon. d. 
Inst. iti. pl. 44 f.=Reinach Rép. Vases i. 115 f., Lenormant—de Witte Z7. mon. cér. i. 
217 ff. pl. 65 A) gives Zeus both thunderbolt and sceptre (upper part restored). In most 
vase-paintings of this scene either the bolt or the sceptre is absent, though the hand is held 
as if its missing attribute were present. (2) A red-figured amfphora assigned to the 
Nikoxenos painter, a contemporary of Euthymides (Jahn Vasensamml. Miinchen p. 137 f. 
no. 405, Gerhard Azser/. Vasend. i. 31 ff. pl. 7=Reinach Rép. Vases ii. 21, 7 f., Hoppin 
ked-fig. Vases ii. 233 no. 6), shows Zeus with thunderbolt and eagle-sceptre seated among 
an assemblage of deities. (3) A fine red-figured vase from Girgenti, formerly owned by 
R. Politi (R. Rochette Chotx de peintures de Pompéi Paris 1848 p. 5 vignette, p. 11 n. 6, 
Overbeck Gall. her. Bildw. i. 527 f. no. 66 Atlas pl. 22, 10, 2d. Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 28 
no. b, Atlas pl. 1, 13 (Zeus only)), had Zeus with winged bolt and sceptre seated between 
Thetis and Heos, who supplicate him on behalf of their sons. Cp. also supra p. 274 
fig. 177. 

+ Infra § 9 (h) ii (0). > See pocket at end of vol. ii. 


(aide 48 


754 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


Installed in this unique position it was naturally copied and re-copied 
by successive generations of artists. Indeed, with sundry slight 
modifications (the sceptre held higher, the bolt resting in the lap, 
the throne embellished, the footstool pushed forward) it lasted on 





Fig. 694. Fig. 695. Fig. 696. 


into imperial times, as may be seen, not only from countless coins 
(eg. fig. 692)! and gems (e.g. fig. 695), but also from numerous 
extant marbles and bronzes*. The finest of the latter is a statuette 
at New York (fig. 697)*, of which Miss G. M. A. Richter well says: 


1 Eig. supra i. 44 fig. 13, 69 fig. 44, go fig. 62, 124 fig. gt f., 781 fig. 566, ii. 16 
figs. 3—6, etc. I add, on account of their handsome thrones, a couple of coppers issued 
at Taouion (Tavium) in Galatia (Sr7z¢. Mus. Cat. Coins Galatia, etc. p. 24 pl. 5, 2 (=my 
fig. 692) time of Titus to Septimius Severus, p. 27 pl. 5, 12 (=my fig. 693) Caracalla, Head 
fist. num.” p. 749). Tavium (Béyuk Nefez Keut) was the chief town of the Galatian 
tribe of the Trokmoi, ézrou 6 Tod Avds KoNogobs xadkois Kai Téwevos ad’Tod dovdov (Strab. 
567) : see further J. R. S. Sterrett in the Papers of the American School of Classical Studies 
at Athens (883—1884 ii. 310 f. W. Wroth in the 4rzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Galatia, etc. 
p- xxi f- regards the coins here given as figuring the colossal Zeus and suggests that the 
bull was his victim. He further notes a dedication [Ac]i Taouav@ found at Ankyra 
(A. von Domaszewski in the Arch.-ef. Mitth. 1885 ix. 114 f. no. 65), another I.o.m. | 
Taviano | pro salu. | imp. Anto|nini et M. | Aureli Caes. | Gal[at]ae con|sistentes | muni- 
cipio | posierunt at Napoca (A7ausenburg) in Dacia (Corp. inscr. Lat. iii no. 860 with 
Suppl. p. 1380=Orelli Zuscr. Lat. sed. no. 1285 =Wilmanns £x. zzscr. Lat. no. 2449= 
Dessau /nscr. Lat. sel. no. 4082), and a third I. 0. m. | Taviano | et dis deabusque | pro 
salute (et) victori[a] | domini n(ostri) sanctissi{m(i)] | Avianus Aug. lib. | subpro(curator) 
auraria[r(um)] | v. s. a(nimo) [l(ibens)] at Apulum (Kar/sburg) in Dacia (Corp. inser. 
Lat. iii. no. 1088 = Orelli Zwscr. Lat. sel. no. 1284). 

2 E.g. supra i. 42 fig. 12, ii. 318 fig. 200. I illustrate two Graeco-Roman gems of 
normal and exceptional design. Fig. 694 isa burnt onyx in the British Museum, formerly 
in the Mertens and Castellani collections (4rz¢. Mus. Cat. Gems p. go no. 577. Scale +), 
a thoroughly commonplace specimen such as any Roman tradesman might have worn to 
bring him luck (cp. Furtwangler Geschnztt. Steine Berlin p. 266 no. 7132 pl. 54). 
Fig. 695 is 9 sapphirine chalcedony, which came to me from the Story-Maskeleyne collec- 
tion (Sale Catalogue London rg2r p. 16 no. 85) and is here shown to the scale ¢: the 
corn-ears and skjphos set beside the god’s throne mark him as the dispenser of food and 
drink (cp. Brit. Mus. Cat. Gems p. go no. 576, and szpra i. 598 n. 2). 

3 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 115—124 (‘ Erste Classe’) nos. r—18. Other 
bronzes are listed by Richter Cat. Bronzes New York p. t10 f. 

4 Richter Cat. Bronzes New York p. 110 f. no. 200 fig., A. Furtwaingler Mewe Denk- 
mialer antiker Kunst (extr. from the Sztzungsher. d. kats. bayr. Akad. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. 
Classe) Miinchen 1903 iii. 267 f. no. 6 pl. 6, Reinach Aé. Staz. iv. 8no. 2. Height: 4} ins. 
I am indebted to Miss Richter for the photograph from which fig. 697 was made. 





Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt Ans 


‘It is of Roman execution but must have been made by an artist 
thoroughly imbued with the Greek spirit.’ Another choice example 
is the small seated Zeus in silver with gilded drapery, thunderbolt, 





Fig. 697. 


etc. (pl. xx xii, 2), which formed part of the Macon find mentioned 
in a foregoing note*. But more often the Romans were content with 
very slipshod reproductions of the type: I give (fig. 698) a sample 


1 The same might be said of De Ridder Cat. Bronzes de la coll. de Clercg p. 139 f. 
no. 215 pl. 36, 1 (height: or7™). 

* Brit. Mus. Cat. Silver Plate p. tof. no. 35 pl. 6. Height: 07072. The thunder- 
bolt on the lap of Zeus is ornamented with two Corinthian capitals. Pl. xxxil, 2 is from a 
photograph by Mr R. B. Fleming. 

3 Supra p. 746 n. 2. 

4 A. C, P. de Tubieres Comte de Caylus Recueil a’antiquités égyptiennes, étrusques, 
grecques, romaines et gauloises Paris 1767 vii. 286 f. pl. 82, 1 (reversed), Babelon— 
Blanchet Cat. Bronzes de la Bibl. Nat. p. gf. no. 17 fig. (=my fig. 698), Reinach Ré. 
Stat. ii. 13 no. 6, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 116 no. 16, p. 122. The eyes are 
incrusted with silver. Height: o-122™. Patina: dark green. 


48—2 


756 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


now at Paris. An interesting variation is a well-preserved but heavy- 
looking bronze found in Hungary (pl. xxxiv)!, which—like sundry 
coins (fig. 696)*, gems’, etc.A—reverses the type, putting the sceptre 





Fig. 699. 


in the god’s right hand, the thunderbolt in his left. A second little 
statuette of silver with gilded zmdtzon, which passed from the 
Castellani collection into the British Museum (fig. 699)°, makes 


1 H. B. Walters Brit. Mus. Cat. Bronzes p. 170 no. gog and in his British Museum: 
Select Bronzes London 1915 pl. 39 with text, Clarac Mus. de Sculpt. iii. 23 f. pl. 398 
fig. 668= Reinach Ré. Staz. i. 186 no. 4, O. Rayet Monuments de Part antique Paris 1884 
i pl. 43 with text p. 4 f, A. S. Murray Greek Bronzes London 1898 p. 61 ff. fig. 25, 
Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 121 f., 127 f. no. 23. Restored: sceptre, end of 
thunderbolt, and both feet. Zeus is wearing a large bay-wreath with central boss. 
Height: 7} ins. Patina: blackish. Pl. xxxiv is from a photograph by Mr W. H. Hales. 

® E.g. supra i. 752 fig. 551. Fig. 696 is from a rare coin of Dokimeion (/chje Kara- 
hissar), a Macedonian colony in Phrygia (AOKIMEQN MAKEAO NON), struck under 
Lucilla and now in my collection. 

3 Z.9. supra i. 235 fig. 172. 

4 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus pp. 126—128 (‘ Dritte Classe’) nos. 22 and 23 
(supra n. 1). Cp. seprai 42 f. pl. vil. 

® Brit. Mus. Cat. Silver Plate p. 11 no. 36 fig. Height: 0°063™. Fig. 699 is from a 
photograph by Mr R. B. Fleming. 





Plate XXXIV 






= a 


= 


= 


Bronze statuette found in Hungary, now in the British Museum: Zeus 
enthroned with a sceptre in his right hand and a thunderbolt in his left. 


See page 750 . 1. 





Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 757 


even more of the sceptre and even less of the thunderbolt ; for the 
former is held yet higher, while the latter has simply disappeared. 
Another long-established! type was that of Zeus seated on a 
throne with an eagle flying either to him or from him. Laconian 
cups of c. 550-500 B.C.” adopted the former pose*; Arcadian coins 
of s. V preferred the latter‘. This federal coinage, probably struck 
at Heraia in western Arkadia®, was not unnaturally imitated at 
Olympia, hardly more than a dozen miles away, where a very 





Fig. 700. Fig. 7ol. 


similar Zeus appears seated on a throne witha zmdtzon about his 
waist, a sceptre in his left hand, a winged thunderbolt in his right, 
and an eagle flying before him (figs. 700, 701)*% The Olympian 
coins start the third of four series dated by Mr C. T. Seltman 
between ¢. 452 and c. 432 B.C.” It is therefore possible, not to say 
probable, that Pheidias, who quitted Athens for Olympia after 
the dedication of Athena Parthénos in 438%, took a hint for his 


1 According to T. Wiegand Die archaische Poros-Architektur der Akropolis zu Athen 
Cassel and Leipzig 1904 p. 105 f. figs. 108, 109, the seated Zeus from the eastern pedi- 
ment of the old Hekatompedon at Athens held an eagle in his left hand (hand holding 
bird’s claws extant). A. Furtwangler too in the Sztzungsber. d. kais. bayr. Akad. d. Wiss. 
Phil.-hist. Classe 1905 p. 447 =his Aegiza Miinchen 1906 i. 317 fig. 253 restores Zeus with 
an eagle in his left hand, a thunderbolt in his right. But G. Dickins Catalogue of the 
Acropolis Museum Cambridge 1912 i. 62 ff., 73 no. 25, accepting R. Heberdey’s recon- 
struction of the pediment, first suggests that Zeus had a sceptre in his raised left hand, 
some object unknown in his lowered right, and then adds: ‘ The figure may be safely 
recognized as ZEUS holding a sceptre or a thunderbolt, and, probably, an eagle.’ vix 
Ziguet. 

2 Supra p. 744 0. 4. 3 Supra i. 92 f. fig. 65, 782 pl. xlii. 

4 Supra i. 68 f. fig. 39 ff. 5 Supra i. 68. 

6 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus p. 59 pl. ro, rr, P. Gardner in the Vzem. Chron. 
New Series 1879 xix. 236 pl. 11, ii 2 (London), Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 3. 707 ff. 
no. 1049 pl. 229, 11 (London: rev. only), no. 1050 pl. 229, 12 (Pozzi), C. T. Seltman in 
Nomisma 1913 viii. 48 f. no. 98 pl. 3, Bp (London: rev. only), no. 99 pl. 3, AZ Bo (Pozzi), 
Head Hist. num.” p. 420. Fig. 700 is from a cast of the British Museum coin (ev. 
[F AA] E IO [N)); fig. 7o1 is from the Pozzi example, which is now in my collection 
(oév. countermarks: Gorgéneion, hind foot of mule to right, and a third. vev. F A retro- 
grade). There is no other known specimen of either piece. 

7 C. T. Seltman in Momisma 1913 viii. 43, 57 f. 

8 This at least seems clear from Philochoros frag. 97 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 400 Miiller) 
ap. schol. Aristoph. ax 605, on the text of which see R. Schdll ‘Der Prozess des Phidias’ 
in the Sttzengsber. d. kais. bayr. Akad. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1888 i. 20 ff. J. Nicole 
Le proces de Phidias dans les Chroniques d Apollodore Genéve 1910 pp. I—50 with fac- 


758 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


Olympian Zeus! from the local coinage. He retained the throne 
and the .sceptre in the god’s left hand, but replaced the winged 
thunderbolt by a winged Victory, and transferred the eagle to the 
sceptre-top, thereby suggesting not so much the stormy strength of 
the thunder-god as the tranquil supremacy of the victor. 

A little later than the s¢atéres illustrated above are others (fig. 
702)? with an obverse design of Zeus seated on a rock, the sceptre 





Fig. 702. 


leaning against his right shoulder, the eagle about to fly from his 
right hand, and the thunderbolt omitted. P. Gardner conjectured 
that the rock was meant for Mount Olympos*—Olympos (let us 
suppose) in the neighbourhood of Olympia‘. The comparative 
freedom of the seated figure, the arrangement of the Zzmdtion over 
the left upper arm, and the dropping of the thunderbolt were perhaps 
due to the influence of Pheidias’ chryselephantine colossus. If the 


simile published two mutilated columns of papyrus (pap. 263 and 264 of the Geneva 
collection), which contain portions of a life of Pheidias attributed by him to Apollodoros. 
According to Nicole’s interpretation, Pheidias was accused at Athens of stealing the ivory 
(as Philochoros Zoc. czt. says), not the gold (as Plout. v. Per. 31 says), of the Parthénos ; 
was released upon heavy bail, forty talents, paid by the Eleans, who wanted him to carry 
out their commission of the Zeus Oljmpzos ; and, on being condemned about four years 
later, was compensated by the Eleans with their citizenship. Immediately after this there 
is a record of the dedication of the Olympian Zeus. Nicole’s reading of the papyrus is 
attacked by L. Pareti ‘Il processo di Fidia ed un papiro di Ginevra’ in the Rom. AZitth. 
1909 xxiv. 271—316. But Pareti’s own views are refuted by H. Lechat in the Revue des 
études anciennes 1911 xiii. 125 ff. And, though Nicole’s interpretations are not all 
reliable (e.g. F. Jacoby in the Berl. phzlol. Woch. Sept. 10, 1910 pp. 1148—1156 shows 
that the papyrus has nothing to do with Apollodoros), yet it is evident that the new 
biography supports Philochoros as against Plutarch. See further E. A. Gardner in Zéna 
Athénes rgr2 p. 49 ff., A. J. B. Wace in Zhe Year's Work in Class. Stud. 1912 p- 37; 
- A. Frickenhaus in the Jahrd. d. hais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1913 xxviii. 346—352. 

1 Infra Append. O. 

? Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus p. 59 pl. 10, 12, P. Gardner in the Mum. 
Chron. New Series 1879 xix. 236 pl. 11, ii 3 (London), za. Types of Gk. Coins p. 111 
pl. 3; 41 (London: obv. only), Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 3. 707 ff. no. 1048 pl. 229, 10 
(London), C. T. Seltman in Momisma 1913 viii. 49 no. 100 pl. 3, Bp (Seltman: rev. only), 
no. ror pl. 3, BA Br (London), no. 102 pl. 3, By (Berlin: rev. only), Head Hist. num.” 
p- 420. Fig. 702 is from a cast of the British Museum coin. 

* P. Gardner Zypes of Gk. Coins p. 111 (‘no doubt mount Olympus’). 

4 Supra i. 100 Nn. 3. 








‘J OSL advg aas 


*suOA’T we oirepide’y VOSNIY 944 ul snoeZ jo 9}yVoNes O[GjVJY 





AXXX 238ld 


Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 759 


earlier statéres were issued before its erection, these of more advanced 
style were issued after it. 





Fig. 703. 


Of the temple-statue itself no adequate copies! have come down 
to us. The small marble Zeus in the Musée Lapidaire at Lyons?, 


1 For the numismatic evidence see R. Weil ‘Der Zeus des Pheidias auf elischen 
Miinzen der Kaiserzeit’ in the Zettschr. f. Num. 1912 xxx. 363—382 pl. 10, and zz/fra 
Append. O. 

2 Clarac Mus. de Sculpt. iii. 20 pl. 397 fig. 665 (two views)=Reinach Rép. Stat. i. 
186 no. rf., E. Wolff in the Azz. ad. Zust. 1841 xiii. 52 f. pl. D, O. Benndorf in the A7ch. 
Zett. 1865 xxiii Anz. p. 73*, Miiller—Wieseler Denkm. d. alt. Kunst ii. 4 pl. 1, 8, Miiller— 
Wieseler—Wernicke Ant. Denkm. ii. 1. 50f. pl. 4, 14. Restored: left lower arm from 
elbow, right lower arm with elbow, nose, neck with some locks of hair, front of right foot, 
parts of throne-back. Height (with base): 0°62™. On the base is AILOAAQN (Cor. zuscr. 
Gr. iii no. 6139), presumably a modern inscription (O. Benndorf Zoc. czt.), since the simi- 
larity of marble, style, and proportions makes it practically certain that the bearded head 
belongs to the body of the work. 


760 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


cited by J. Overbeck! as nearer akin to the Pheidiac original than 
any other extant figure, can claim, if not the calm of conquest, at 
least a quiet dignity of its own, and must doubtless be classed as a 
later representative of the Olympian type. .The left hand was raised 
to hold a sceptre. The right, to which the restorer has given a globe, 
very possibly, as Overbeck suggests, carried a Victory. And the 
thunderbolt is nowhere to be seen, unless we may detect a stylised 
form of it in the throne-legs and in the relief-pattern that connects 
them behind (pl. xxxv)*. The once dreaded missile of the sky- 
god could hardly undergo further attenuation without vanishing 
altogether. 

When Alexander the Great placed upon his silver coinage the 
design of a seated Zeus, it might have been expected that he would 
choose for the purpose the great cult-statue at Olympia—and the 
more so as Mount Olympos was a prominent feature of his own 
domain. In point of fact, he did nothing of the sort. He set aside 
all the improvements introduced by Pheidias and deliberately re- 
verted to the old pre-Pheidiac type. A comparison of his tetra- 
drachms (fig. 704)? on the one hand with the federal coins of Arkadia, 
on the other with the Olympian statue, is instructive : 





ARCADIAN COINS | PHEIDIAS’ STATUE | ALEXANDER’S COINS 
Right hand has eagle. Right hand has Nike. Right hand has eagle. 
Left hand has sceptreheld | Lefthand has sceptre held | Left hand has sceptreheld 
high. low. high. 

Right leg is in advance of | Left leg is in advance of | Right leg is in advance of 
left leg. right leg. | left leg. 

Himation is wrapped | Himdtion covers left | Himdtion is wrapped 
about lower limbs only. | upper arm as well. about lower limbs only. 

Throne has at first no | Throne has high back. Throne has at first no 
back. back. 





1 Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 123 f. no. 18. 

2 Pl. xxxv is from a couple of photographs kindly procured for me by Mr S. C. Cockerell. 

I add, for comparison, four throne-legs of white marble formerly in the collection at 
Deepdene (Hope Sale Catalogue 1917 p. 32 no. 205) and now in the Fitzwilliam Museum 
(fig. 703 from a photograph by Mr W. H. Hayles). Greatest height: 364ins. They are 
of similar design, but vary in detail and workmanship, and here and there have been 
patched by a modern restorer. Such legs are frequent in representations of ancient couches 
and thrones (L. Heuzey—H. Daumet Afission Archéologigue de Macédoine Paris 1876 
Texte p. 261 fig. (eight examples), C. L. Ransome Studies in Ancient Furniture Chicago 
1905 pp. 20ft., 44 ff., 72 ff, goff. (with numerous figs.)), and their resemblance to a 
thunderbolt, though fortuitous in origin, would make them peculiarly suitable to a throne 
of Zeus (cp. the marble throne-leg at Palermo in Durm Baukunst der Griechen® p. 253 
fig. 175, 20.3 p. 239 fig. 209). The closest parallel to the Cambridge legs is afforded by 
Ant. Skulpt. Berlin p. 429 f. no. 1092 a. b., a marble leg which shows traces of red colour 
and gilding. 

® From a specimen in my collection. 





Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 761 


The inference is clear. Alexander, ignoring the idealised ruler at 
Olympia, harked back to the more ancient and popular type of 
Zeus Lykaios. After all, Mount Lykaion too was called Olympos'. 
Yet so immense was the fame of the Pheidiac figure that tetra- 
drachms issued later in the name and with the types of Alexander 
are increasingly influenced by it. The left leg is advanced instead 
of the right (figs. 705-707), and the throne is manifestly assimilated 
to that of Zeus Ol/mpios (figs. 705, 707). Coins of the Syrian kings 
from Seleukos i Nikator to Antiochos ii Theos, and again from 
Antiochos iv Epiphanes onwards?, exchange the eagle for Nike and 





a 50? 2292205, 
=) 








Fig. 706. Fig. 707. 
4% 
proceed to drape the /zmdtion over the left shoulder—in short, 
frankly adopt the whole Pheidiac design. 

So even Alexander failed to arrest the moral evolution of Zeus. 
What motive led him to make the attempt? Why did he select for 
his world-wide coinage the old eagle-bearer of Arkadia rather than 
the newer and nobler creation of Pheidias? Just here an interesting 
suggestion has been made by Mr C. T. Seltman. He points out 
to me (Aug. 27, 1921) that on some of the coins struck at Tarsos 
by Mazaios before 333 B.c.4 Ba‘al-tars precisely resembles the 

1 Supra i. 68. 

Figs. 705, 706 are from specimens in my collection. Fig. 707 is from one in the British 
Museum (Head Cotzs of the Ancients p. 63 pl. 31, 14, P. Gardner Zypes of Gh. Coins 
p- 186 pl. 12, 23), of which I possess a duplicate, formerly in the Pozzi collection. 

3 E. Babelon Les Rois de Syrie, d Arménie et de Commagéne Paris 1890 p. xcv. The 


coins of Antiochos iv are discussed and illustrated zzfra Append. N sub fin. 
4 For the dating {see an important monograph by E. T. Newell ‘ Myriandros—Alex- 


762 Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 


eagle-bearing Zeus of Alexander!, seated as he is on a throne 


% 
i 
& 


See eS pe 





without a back, with an eagle in his right hand, a 
sceptre in his left, the right leg in advance, and the 
himation wrapped about his lower limbs. Mr Seltman 
hazards? the brilliant conjecture that Alexander in- 
tentionally combined an obverse type, which in the 
west would represent Herakles, in the east Melgarth, 
with a reverse type, which in the west would represent 
Zeus, in the east La‘al-tars, thereby pursuing his usual 
policy of welding together his Hellenic and _ bar- 
barian subjects. 

Lastly Greek art produced on Italian soil a fresh 
type of seated Zeus, in which the right hand held 
neither thunderbolt, nor eagle, nor even Victory, but 
was simply raised to the head in an attitude sug- 
gestive of thought. We have already seen that a 
wall-painting from Pompeii* and a well-mouth at 
Naples‘ presuppose a common exemplar of this type, 
not impossibly the great statue made by Lysippos 
for the market-place of the Tarentines. Here for 
the first time the sculptor endeavours 

To bring the invisible full into play ! 


andria Kat’isson’ in the American 
Journal of Numismatics 1919 lili. 
2. I—42 with 28 figs. and 2 pls. 
Babelon’s chronology (swpra i. 
596 n. 2) must be revised accord- 
ingly. 

1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Ly- 
caonia, etc. p. 172 nos. 57 and 58 
pl. 31, 2, E. T. Newell éoc. czt. 
Pp: 9 fig. 9. 

? This conjecture is hardly to 
be reconciled with the contention 
of E. T. Newell ‘ Alexander 
Hoards’ in Mumismatic Notes 
and Monographs 1921 iii. 5 pl.t, 
16, 19, pl. 2, 25 that the first is- 
sue of tetradrachms under Alex- 
ander at Amphipolis together 
with the last issue under Philip 
at the same mint ‘probably 
covered the years 336 to 334 B.C.’ 

3 Supra i. 34 pl. iand Frontis- 
piece. 

4 Supra i. 34 ff. pl. ii. 








Gradual elimination of the thunderbolt 763 


The sceptre (for both painting and relief postulate a sceptre in the 
god’s left hand) as before symbolises outward sovereignty’. But a 
new note is struck by the gesture betokening inward reflexion. 
Henceforward omnipotence connotes omniscience, the Almighty 


1 T would here call attention to a very remarkable gold sceptre from Tarentum, 
formerly in the Castellani collection and now in the British Museum (F. H. Marshall 
Brit. Mus. Cat. Jewellery p. 232 f. no. 2070 fig. 65. Length: 0°52™). It consists of a 
gold tube, covered by a network of gold wire with dots of dark blue or white enamel at 
each point of contact. The tube ends below in a disk decorated with a flower of fourteen 
petals, above in a Corinthian capital with leaves, volutes, and flowers all complete. Above 
the abacus is a large quince of opaque, greenish glass, surrounded by eight oak-leaves 
(F. H. Marshall, apparently misled by the foliage of the capital, takes them to be 
acanthus-leaves) and surmounted by a small flower of four leaves in gold. Figs. 708 
and 709 are from photographs by Mr R. B. Fleming. 

This would seem to be the only ancient Greek sceptre in existence (A. Sorlin-Dorigny 
in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. iv. 1115 knows of none). Tarentum in the time of 
Dareios son of Hystaspes had its kings (Hdt. 3. 136 Aristophilides). But the forms 
of the Corinthian capital point to a much later period, and F. H. Marshall Joc. ci¢. 
says ‘3rd cent. B.C. (?).?. If, as seems probable, the surrounding leaves are really 
meant for oak, closer identification may be attempted. They suggest that the sceptre 
belonged originally to some king of Epeiros, who stood for the worship of the 
Dodonaean Zeus. Now Alexander i of Epeiros, when he invaded Italy to assist the 
Tarentines against the Lucanians, Bruttians, and Messapians, struck at Tarentum 
between 334 and 330 B.C. certain exquisite gold s¢atéres with oév. head of Zeus dios 





Fig. 710. Pigs fit. 


of Dodona wearing a wreath of oak, rev. AAEZANAPOT TOTNEOILTOAEMOY thunder- 
bolt and spear-head (4rzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 110 pl. 20, : (=my fig. 710), 
Head Cozus of the Ancients p. 66 pl. 33, 11, P. Gardner Zyfes of Gk. Cozns p. 149f. pl. 5, 
37, M. P. Vlasto in the Journ. Intern. d Arch. Num. 1899 ii. 315 pl. IE’, 16). And the 
Tarentines, when Pyrrhos 1 of Epeiros had been called in to champion their cause against 
Rome, issued c. 281 B.C. other gold statéres with obv. laureate head of Zeus Eleuthérios to 
left, or right, and monogram NIK, vev. TAPANTINON eagle on thunderbolt, usually with 
symbol and magistrate’s name (Head Cozns of the Ancients p. 66 pl. 33, 12 and Ast. 
num.” p. 58, Hunter Cat. Coins i. 68 no. 22 pl. 5,6, M. P. Vlasto in the Journ. Intern. 
@ Arch. Num. 1899 ii. 331 ff. pl. 1Z’, 1—15. My fig. 711 is from a specimen formerly be- 
longing to W. R. Hamilton, of which there is an electrotype in the Leake collection, 
Cambridge). It is permissible, therefore, to conjecture that the sceptre preserved in the 
British Museum was a votive offering either of Alexander or, more probably, of Pyrrhos 
to some Tarentine deity, presumably Zeus Zleuthérios (Hesych. s.v. "ENevdépios Levs-... 
tov Midwy éxpuydvres lipicavro Tov "EXevOépiov Ala. rodrov dé evo kal Lwrhpd pace. 
Tiaras dé kal év Lupaxovcas kal mapa Tapaytivors kai év Aaraais al év Kapig 6’ EXevdé- 
ptos Zevs). Be that as it may, the quince or apple enclosed by the leaves is a frequent 
decoration of sceptres (A. Sorlin-Dorigny /oc. cit. p. 1116), which, at least in many cases, 
are to be regarded as the conventionalised form of a branch with golden apples (sura i. 
87 n. 6 and Folk-Lore 1906 xvii. 158 ff.). 


764 Modifications in the shape 


must needs be the All-wise. And what of the All-terrible? His 
eagle is relegated to a position near to, yet apart from, himself: 
it is retained for suitable service. But the thunderbolt, once the 
outstanding feature in the Zeus-cult of Tarentum', has wholly 
vanished. In its stead we discern, however darkly, the workings 
of divine Providence. 


(8) Modifications in the shape of the thunderbolt. 


Modifications may be noted, not only in the use of the thunder- 
bolt, but also in its shape. P. Jacobsthal? in a monograph devoted 
to the subject distinguishes two varieties of ancient oriental repre- 





sentation. Lightning in Mesopotamian art is either bipartite or tri- 
partite. The bipartite sort, which is the commoner and probably the 


1 Supra p. 29 ff. 

2 P. Jacobsthal Der Blitz in der orientalischen und griechischen Kunst Berlin 1906 
pp. t—6o with 4 pls. R. Engelmann, reviewing this work in the Ber/. philol. Woch. 
Juli 13, 1907 p. 877 f., draws attention to an unpublished collection of lightning-shapes 
in a Vatican manuscript (cod. Ottobon. 3100 fol. 135—173 Raccolta. di. varij. ful- 
mini || delineati. da. gioie. marmi || e. medaglie). 


of the thunderbolt 765 


earlier, appears as a fork composed of zig-zags (figs. 712—716)! 







= 
<x ” 


ZZ 
Ss 





P2ZZRIT 


SSSnannses 





Kee 
SS 








Fig. 722. 


or curved lines (figs. 717—-723)?; the tripartite, which is found 


1 Fig. 712 from a haematite cylinder at New York (W. H. Ward Zhe Seal Cylinders of 
Western Asia Washington 1910 p. 128 f. fig. 3684 and in M. Jastrow Bildermappe zur 
Religion Babyloniens und Assyriens Giessen tg12 p. 105 pl. 51, no. 190). 

Fig. 713 from a re-cut cylinder (W. H. Ward Zhe Seal Cylinders etc. p. 174 fig. 469). 

Fig. 714 from a haematite cylinder in my possession: Ramman seated with the light- 
ning fork in his hand. 

Fig. 715 from a cylinder (W. H. Ward Zhe Seal Cylinders etc. p. 171 fig. 456 and in 
M. Jastrow of. czt. p. 105 pl. 51, no. 189): Ramman standing on a bull with a lightning- 
fork in either hand. 

Fig. 716 from a cylinder (W. H. Ward Zhe Seal Cylinders etc. p. 172 fig. 461): 
Ramman standing ona humped bull with a lightning-fork in one hand, a scimitar (?) in 
the other. 

2 Fig. 717 from a kudurru or boundary-stone of the time of Meli-Shipak (c. 1204— 
1189 B.C.) in the British Museum no. 90827 (L. W. King Babylonian Boundary-stones 
and Memorial-tablets in the British Museum London 1912 p. 7 ff. pl. 21, M. Jastrow 
op. cit. p. 14 f. pl. 9, no. 30). 

Fig. 718 from a kudurru of the time of Nebuchadrezzar i (c. 1140—1123) found at 
Nippur (W. J. Hinke 4 new boundary stone of Nebuchadrezzar t. from Nippur (The 


766 Modifications in the shape 


first under the Kassite kings, is formed of curves (figs. 724, 725)! 


Babylonian Expedition of the University of Pennsylvania Series D vol. iv) Philadelphia 
1907 p- 120 fig. 47, 16, M. Jastrow of. czt. p. 22 f. pl. 12, no. 40). 

Fig. 719 from the kudurru of Gula- 
Eresh of about the time of Enilil- 
nadin-aplu (c. 1123—1117) in the 
British Museum no. 102485 (L. W. 
King of. cit. p. 76 ff. pl. 3). 

Fig. 720 from a kudurru of the time 
of Marduk-nadin-akhé (c. *1117— 
1105)in the British Museum no. go840 
(L. W. King of. cit. p. 42 tf. pls. 44 
and 50, W. J. Hinke of. ct. p. 3 
fig. 12, 15). : 

Fig. 721 from an alabaster tablet of 
Shamshi-Adad iv (825—812 B.c.) in 
the British Museum (A. H. Layard 
A second series of the Monuments of 
Nineveh London 1853 pl. 4, M. Jas- 
trow of. cit. p. 68 pl. 32, no. 96). 

Fig. 722 from a black limestone 
tablet of Meli-Shipak (c. 1204— 
1189 B.C.) found at Sousa and now 
in the Louvre (W. J. Hinke of. ci¢. 
p- 28 fig. 11, 16, W. H. Ward Zhe 
Seal Cylinders etc. pp. 391 fig. 1286, 
399, M. Jastrow of. czt. p. 13 f. pl. 8, 
no. 29): lightning-fork on a shrine 
borne by a crouching ox. 

Fig. 723 from a limestone tablet 
of the time of Nebuchadrezzar i 
(c. 1140—1123) found at or near Abu- 
Habba and now in the British 
Museum no. 90858 (L. W. King of. 
cit. p. 29 ff. pl. gt, W. H. Ward The 
Seal Cylinders etc. pp. 391 fig. 1287, 
399, M. Jastrow of. cit. p. 22 pl. 12, 
no. 39) : lightning-fork on a crouching 
ox. Cp. other examples of the same 
type in W. J. Hinke of. cit. p. 25 
fig. 10, 14 = M. Jastrow of. cit. p. 20 f. 
pl. 11, no. 37; W. J. Hinke of. cet. 
p- gi fig. 28, 16=W. H. Ward The 
Seal Cylinders etc. p. 390 fig. 1285 a= 
M. Jastrow of. cit. p. 13 pl. 8, no. 28. 

1 First on a fragmentary kudurru 
of the Kassite dynasty (M. J. de Mor- 
gan Délégation en Perse Mémoires 
Paris 1900 i. 176 fig. 382, W. J. Hinke of. cit. pp. 41 fig. 18, 82): Ramman standing 
on a humped bull with a lightning-fork in his hand. 

Fig. 724 from a Hittite sté/e of dolerite (height 1°28"), found in Babylon and referred 
by R. Koldewey to s. x B.c. (R. Koldewey ‘Die hettitische Inschrift’ in the Wassen- 
schaftliche Veriffentlichungen der deutschen Orient-Gesellschaft Leipzig 1900 i. 1 ff. pls. 1— 
3, L. Messerschmidt Corpus inscriptionum Hettiticarum Berlin 1goo p. 3 f. pl. 1, 5, zd. 





Fig. 724. 





of the thunderbolt 767 


or straightish lines (figs.'726, 727), From s. ix B.C. onwards there 
is a tendency to duplicate? these forks by giving them prongs at 
either end (figs. 728—730)*. And under the Sargonid dynasty 


Die Hettiter Leipzig 1903 
p- 24 f. fig. 25, A. Jeremias 
in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 53 
fig. 12 f., E. Meyer Reich und 
Kultur der Chetiter Berlin 
194 p. 66 ff. fig. 56, R. 
Koldewey 7he Excavations at 
Babylon trans. A. S. Johns 
London tr914 p. 164 f. 
fig. 103 f.): TeSub standing 
with axe and lightning-fork. 

Fig. 725 from a somewhat 
later Hittite relief in dolerite 
(height 1°27"), found at 
Sinjerli (F. von Luschan 
Ausgrabungen in Sendschirli 
Berlin rgo2 iii. 218 f. fig. 114 
and pl. 41, a (=my fig. 725), 
A. Jeremias in Roscher Zew. 
Myth. iv. 53 fig. 14, J. Gar- 
stang Zhe Land of the Hittites 
London 1910 p. 291 pl. 77, 1, 
E. Meyer of. czt. p. 67 fig. 57): 
TeSub standing with axe and 
lightning-fork. 

1 Fig. 726 from a cylinder 
(W. H. Ward 7he Seal Cylin- 
ders etc. pp. 174 fig. 468, 399): 
lightning-fork on a bull. 

Fig. 727 from a northern 
cylinder (é¢@. 7. p. 383 
fig. [48 a]): Adad seated 
with the lightning-fork in his 
hand. 

2 P. E. Newberry ‘The 
Egyptian cult-object —e 
and the ‘“ Thunderbolt”? in 
the dun. Arch. Anthr. 1910 
iii, 50—52 pl. 19, ‘I—r7 
argues that the cult-object, 
which appears as a double- 
headed dart on prehistoric 
vases etc. and in shapes com- 
parable with the Greek thun- 
derbolt on monuments of the 
Middle Kingdom and later, was ‘ always used in hieroglyphic inscriptions as a symbol 
of the god Min.... the original form of Amon... Lord of Heaven and God of Thunder ”’ 
and presumably represents the thunderbolt in types derived from flint arrow-heads, stone 
celts, and belemnites. 

* Fig. 728 from an alabaster relief found in the N.W. palace of Ashur-nasir-pal iii 





in the shape 


10NS 


Modificat 


768 





fo) 
on 
~ 
eb 
fy 





of the thunderbolt 769 


(¢. 700 B.C.) the fork, whether single (fig. 731)! or double (figs. 732, 
733)", is stylised into a shape resembling a lotos-flower. 

The forms thus evolved in the near east made their way west- 
ward through Asia Minor into Ionia, and thence into the mainlands 
of Greece and Italy, borne on the broad tide of oriental influence, 
which during the Early Iron Age swept the Mediterranean from 





Fig. 733: 


(884—860 B.c.) and now in the British Museum nos. 28, 29 (A. H. Layard 4 second 
sertes of the Monuments of Nineveh London 1853 pl. 5, W. H. Ward Zhe Seal Cylinders 
etc. p. 197 fig. 564, M. Jastrow of. cit. p. 87 f. pl. 39, no. 120): fight of a storm-god 
(Marduk ?), holding two double forks, with a lion-headed monster (Tiamat ?). 

Fig. 729 from the rock-carving of Sennacherib (c. 705—682 B.C.) at Bavian north of 
Mosul (A. H. Layard Discoveries in the Ruins of Nineveh and Babylon London 1853 
pp. 208—217 fig., W. J. Hinke of. cit. p. 88 fig. 25, M. Jastrow of. czt. p. 28 pl. 14, 
no. 46): symbol of Adad. 

Fig. 730 from the dolerite s¢éle of Esar-haddon (682—66g9 B.c.) found at Sinjerli and 
now at Berlin (F. von Luschan of. cz¢. 1893 1. 11—43 fig. 4 and pl. i, Sir G. Maspero 7he 
Passing of the Empires London 1900 p. 375 fig. W. J. Hinke of. cit. p. 89 fig. 26, M. 
Jastrow of. cit. p. 30 pl. t4, no. 48): Adad standing on an ox with the double fork in his 
hand. Cp.the Susian god with bovine horns, axe, and double fork (supra i. 578 fig. 447). 

1 Fig. 731 from a cylindrical bar of lapis lazuli (o°2™ long) found at Babylon. It was 
dedicated by Esar-haddon (682—669 B.c.) to Marduk, but is inscribed as ‘ the seal of the 
god Adad in the temple of Esagila, belonging to the treasure of the god Marduk.’ Adad, 
who is here conceived as a form of Marduk, holds a lightning-fork in either hand. One 
of these forks is double, the other treble—approximating at its tip to the shape of a lotos- 
bud. The god holds also by a couple of cords an ox (the beast of Adad) and a dragon 
(the beast of Marduk) (M. Jastrow of. c7t. p. 7 f. pl. 5, no. 15, R. Koldewey Zhe Ex- 
cavations at Babylon trans. A. S. Johns London 1914 p. 221 fig. 134). 

2 Figs. 732, 733 from a rock-cut relief of the Sargonid dynasty (c. 700 B.c.) at 


Call 49 


770 Modifications in the shape 


end to end. Between 650 and 550 B.C. it brought the potter, for 
example, a profusion of possible mo¢z2fs—sphinxes, griffins, lions, 
panthers, the lotos, the palmette, even the Assyrian ‘tree of life.’ 
Thus when a ‘Caeretan’ Zydréa in the Louvre! figures a stag-hunt 
on one side, a pair of winged bulls on the other, we must not jump 
to the conclusion that its painter had witnessed the chase on the 





plains of Mesopotamia or passed through the ruined portals of 
Nineveh: he was but repeating, for the sake of their decorative 
effect, designs that had been transmitted to him along the caravan- 
routes of anterior Asia. Accordingly it is not surprising to find that 
the lotiform lightning-fork of late Assyrian art makes its first? 
appearance as the Greek thunderbolt on the vases of Ionia. An 


Malthayiah, 60 miles or so north of Mosul (A. H. Layard Wineveh and its Remains 
London 1849 i. 229—231, V- Place Minzve et [ Assyrie Paris 1867—187o0 ii. 153—160 
pl. 45, Perrot—Chipiez Ast. de ’ Art ii. 642—647 fig. 313) : two out of a procession of 
deities confronting the king; they are characterised as. deities (Adad? and Marduk ?) by 
the stars above their heads and the animals (ox? and dragon ?) beneath their feet. 

1 E. Pottier Vases antiques du Louvre 2™¢ Série Paris 1901 p. 65 no. E 697, zd. in 
the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1892 xvi. 257 ff. figs. 7—9, Perrot—Chipiez A7st. de ? Art ix. 518 ff. 
figs. 250—252. ; 

2 F. Poulsen Der Orient und die frithgriechische Kunst Leipzig—Berlin 1912 p. 81 
notes that on one of the ¢/mfana from the Idaean Cave, referable to s. viii B.c., ‘Ashur’ 
is holding in either hand objects which may be meant for lightnings (F. Halbherr—P. 
Orsi Antichita dell’ Antro di Zeus Ideo in Creta (= Museo Italiano di Antichita Classica ii) 





of the thunderbolt 79 


early kylix of ‘Chalcidian’ style’ from Szava (Mnasyrion?) in 
Rhodes shows the introduction of Herakles 
to Olympos, where Zeus and Hera are seated 
on richly embellished thrones. Zeus (fig. 734) 
holds in his left hand a thunderbolt looking 
like a bunch of leaves or petals, while from 
the upper rail of his throne rises a lotos- 
bloom of absurdly large dimensions. Another 
‘Chaleidian’ vase-painting already discussed 
(supra p. 731 fig. 663) treats the bolt in the 
god’s hand as itself an unmistakable lotos. 
And this floriform fashion once started had a considerable vogue 
throughout the Hellenic world. It lingered on even into imperial 
times. Indeed, a rare copper of Kibyra in Phrygia, struck by 
Diadumenianus (217—218 A.D.), actually represents Zeus enthroned 
with a simple lotos-flower, instead of a thunderbolt, in his right 
hand (fig. 735)". . 

The popularity of the lotos in this connexion was due in part, 
no doubt, to its obvious ornamental qualities, but in part also to 
long-standing significance. Fire in general, as P. Jacobsthal points 
out, was sometimes regarded by the ancients as a flower*. And the 





pl. 5 (=my fig. 736)). If so, these are the earliest known lightnings of Greek art. But 
I suspect that they are rather to be regarded as flowers (cp. swfra i. 208 figs. 153, 154)- 





Fig. 736. 


l Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases ii. 210 ff. no. B 379, Sir Cecil Smith in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 
1884 v. 220 ff. pls. 40—42, Perrot—Chipiez 7st. de 7 Art ix. 532 n. I. 

2 Fig. 735 is from a specimen, which came to me from the Rhousopoulos collection. 

3 P. Jacobsthal of. cit. p. 10 ff. quotes //. 9. 212 ai’rap érel mupos dvOos aménraro 
mavoato dé bE (so Aristarchos in schol. LTV ad J/oc., cp. schol. A 2b., Eustath. 27 77. 
p- 748, 41 ff., Plout. de fac. in orb. lun. 21, schol. Aisch. P. v. 7), Aisch. P. v. 7 70 ody 
yap avOos, mavtéxvou tupds cédas, | OvynTtoice kdéWas wracev, Orph. frag. 291 Abel ap. 
Prokl. zz Plat. Zim. i. 451, 20 Diehl évOev cvpopevos mpnornp auvdpot rupds dvOos | Kbcuwv 
evOpwckwy Kohopaot [=G. Kroll De oraculis Chaldaicis Vratislaviae 1894 p. 20. Add 
Prokl. zz Plat. Parm. iii (p. 622 Stallbaum)=Kroll of. czt. p. 24 €vvovar voepal, myyis 
marpiKhs dro, Tounv | dparrdmevac (G. Thilo cj. dpemrouevac) wupds avOos dkoruynrouv xpovou 


49—2 


772 Modifications in the shape 


sun in particular was associated with the lotos in Egyptian’, if not 


axun, Prokl. zz Plat. Parm. ii (p. 596 f. Stallbaum)= Kroll of. cit. p. 25 desu@ “Epwros 
ayntod, ds éx voou ExOope mpBros | écodmevos mépe (so Kroll for rupl) rip cwdécuov, oppa 
kepaoon | wyyalous kparipas €o0 mupds dvOos émucxdv, Paulus Silentiarius ékppacts Tod 
duBwvos 195 f. Friedlander 7s emt mupooxdpuyBa memnydra dévdpea Sets, | apyupéwv 
orpamrovra xUdnv mupos dvOos dpauywr]), Lucr. 1. goo flammai fulserunt flore coorto, 4. 
450 lucernarum florentia lumina flammis, Stat. Z%ed. 2. 276 arcano florentes igne 
zmaragdos, Apul. met. 8. 15 sole florido, Tertull. afo/. 11 vani erunt homines, nisi certi 
sint a primordio et pluvias de caelo ruisse et sidera radiasse et lumina floruisse et 
tonitrua mugisse et ipsum Iovem quae in manu eius inponitis fulmina timuisse, de 
patient. 2 qui florem lucis huius super iustos et iniustos aequaliter spargit, adv. MJarcion. 
4. 42 caelum luminibus floruisset magis sol radiis insultasset, Mart. Cap. 206 his diu- 
tissime florem ignis atque illam existentem ex non existentibus veritatem toto pectore 
deprecata tum visa se cernere apotheosin sacraque meruisse, [571 glaucam dant volucrem 
quod lumina concolor igni es, | tuque ignis flos es cluis et yAavedms ’AOjv7). 

Primitive belief and, its first cousin, poetic imagination still share the same idea. 
A. du Bois-Reymond in Jacobsthal of. ci¢. p. to n. 6 adduces Rudyard Kipling 7he 
Jungle Book London 1898 p. 21 ‘“ Get the Red Flower.” By Red Flower Bagheera 
meant fire, only no creature in the jungle will call fire by its proper name.’ So A.C. 
Swinburne AZalanta in Calydon London 1896 p. 13 ‘I dreamt, and saw the black brand 
burst on fire | As a branch bursts in flower, and saw the flame | Fade flower-wise,’ R. 
Browning Zhe Heretic’s Tragedy 9 ‘Haha, John plucketh now at his rose | To rid him- 
self of a sorrow at heart! | Lo,—petal on petal, fierce rays unclose ; | Anther on anther, 
sharp spikes outstart ; | And with blood for dew, the bosom boils ; | And a gust of sulphur 
is all its smell; | And lo, he is horribly in the toils | Of a coal-black giant flower of hell !” 

1 On the lotos in its various aspects see the collections of A. de Gubernatis La mytho- 
loge des plantes Paris 1882 ii. 202—211, 255, R. Folkard Plant Lore, Legends, and 
Lyrics London 1884 pp. 418—422, 463, J. Murr Die Pflanzenwelt in der griechischen 
Mythologie Innsbruck 1890 pp. 281—283, and especially W. H. Goodyear Zhe Grammar 
of the Lotus London 1891. 

The religious significance of the ant was immediately derived from its habits. 
According to Theophrastos, the white lotos closes its bell and sinks at sunset, but reopens 
and comes up again at sunrise (Theophr. Azs¢. plant. 4. 8. 9, caus. plant. 2. 19. 1, cp. 
Plin. zat. hist. 13. 108, Dioskor. 4. 112 (114) p. 601 f. Sprengel), and Proklos suggests 
that in so doing it is virtually adoring the sun (Prokl. de sacrificio et magia ed. M. Ficinus 
Leyden 1607 p. 276). In point of fact, the white lotos (zymphaea lotus) appears to be 
night-blooming, since it is said to open just after sunset and to close on the following 
morning about ten o’clock ; whereas the rose lotos (selumbium speciosum) opens at dawn 
and closes soon after mid-day, and the blue lotos (zymphaea caerulea) opens soon after 
sunrise and closes an hour or two before sunset : see Goodyear of. ci#. p. 18 n. 81. ,The 
lotos therefore naturally stood for reproduction, resurrection, and rebirth. 

As a symbol of reproductive power it surmounts the shrine of the ithyphallic Khem 
(Lanzone Dzzion. di Mitol. Egiz. p. 945 f. pl. 333, 23 p- 946 f. pl. 334, Goodyear of. cit. 
p. 10 pls. 1, 10; 4, 13, 16) and of Amen-Ra in his ithyphallic form (Lanzone of. cit. 
p. 40 f. pl. 20, 1). Androgynous figures depicting the two Niles, Hapi Kema and Hapi 
Mehit, have lotos-plants springing from their heads (Lanzone of. czt. p. 521 ff. pls. 198 
and 199, A. Erman Life in Ancient Egypt trans. H. M. Tirard London 1894 p. 425 fig.). 
A. de Gubernatis of. cit. ii. 211 says: ‘En Egypte, on trouve le lotus dans les parties 
sexuelles des momies de femmes.’ 

Again, the lotos symbolised resurrection. It is constantly associated with the mummy 
(Goodyear of. cit. p. 10 pls. 2, 123 4, 14, E. A. Wallis Budge The Gods of the 
Egyptians London 1904 ii pl. 26) and with the guardians of its v¢scera (Lanzone of. czt. 
pl. 295, 1, Goodyear of. cit. p. 10 pls. 2,33 5,1, 4, E. A. Wallis Budge of. cz¢. ii pl. 27). 
In the Book of the Dead cap. 81 A the deceased says: ‘I am the pure lotus, which 





of the thunderbolt E79 


springeth up from the divine splendour that belongeth to the nostrils of Ra,’ and 2). 81 B: 
‘Hail, thou lotus, thou type of the god Wefer-Zem! Iam he who knoweth you, and I 
know your names among the gods, the lords of the Underworld, and I am one of you.’ 
The vignette of version A is a lotos: that of version B is a lotos-plant with a flower and 
buds growing out of a pool of water, while from the flower springs a human head, the head 
of the deceased (Goodyear of. c#z. pl. 2, 9, E. A. Wallis Budge af. ez¢. i. 521 f.). Lotos- 
flowers and -buds are represented as rising out of the mummy Osiris at Philai (Goodyear 
op. cit. p. 1g fig. t) and as connected in various ways with him at Denderah (Lanzone 
op. cit. pls. 268, 292, E. A. Wallis Budge of. cz¢. ii. 131 ff. nos. 1, 23). Karystios of 
Pergamon frag. 6 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 357 Miiller) af. Athen. 684 E quotes from 
Nikandros the statement that the flower called améros¢a sprang from the head of a statue 
of Alexander in Kos: the flower in question was a species of lily (Nik. af. Athen. 681 B, 
683 D: see further Class. Rev. 1906 xx. 377). Warious divinities, divinised mortals, etc. 
appear on coins with head surmounted by a lotos-flower (list in Rasche Zev. Mam. iv. 
1825), e.g. Zeus Sarapis (H. P. Weitz in Roscher Zex. AZyth. iv. 366 f.) on a bronze coin 
of Perinthos in Thrace (Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. Suppl. ii. 397 no. 1161. Fig. 737 is 
from a specimen of mine, formerly in the Prowe collection) and Antinoos on a bronze coin 
of Alexandreia struck by Hadrian in 135 A.D. (Miiller—Wieseler Dewhm. d. alt. Kunst i. 
94 pl. 70, 387=my fig. 738, L. Dietrichson Azztznoos Christiania 1884 p. 289 ff., G. Blum 
‘Numismatique d’Antinoos’ in the Journ. Intern. d’ Arch. Num. 1914 xvi. 53, 68 pl. 5, 





Fig. 738. 





1 (Berlin). Cp. the lotos-wreath of Antinoos on a relief in the Villa Albani (L. Dietrichson 
op. czt. p. 189 no. 21 pl. 5,12, L. Julius in Baumeister Devkm. i. 85 fig. 89, Friederichs— 
Wolters Gizpsabgiisse p. 672 f. no. 1663, W. Helbig Fuhrer durch die iffentlichen Samm- 
lungen klassischer Altertiimer in Rom Leipzig 1913 ii. 424 f. no. 1872)). Gold and silver 
pieces bearing the legend and types of the apotheosized Arsinoe ii Philadelphos represent 
the reigning queen in a manner calculated to appeal alike to Egyptians and to Greeks. 
The former would note the horn of Ammon curling round her ear and the lotos-flower 
rising from her head. The latter would see but a braided tress of hair and the tip of the 
royal sceptre ! (for examples vzde J. N. Svoronos in the Journ. Intern. a’ Arch. Num. 1899 
il. 183 ff. pls. 8—r1, 1go00 iii. 73 ff. pls. 2, 4, 5. Fig. 739 is from a decadrachm in my 
collection). 

Thirdly, the lotos was associated with the sun and solar deities. Horos is depicted as 
a young child seated upon an opening lotos (E. A. Wallis Budge of. cz. 1 pl. 34, A. Erman 
A Handbook of Egyptian Religion trans. A. S. Griffith London 1907 p. 26 fig. 33). 
‘When he rises in brilliance from the lotos, the whole world comes to life’ (H. Brugsch 
Religion und Mythologie der alten Aegypter Leipzig 1885 i. 104, citing C. R. Lepsius 
Ueber die Goitter der 4 Elemente pl. 1, 1). Egyptian paintings of the infant sun thus 
rising from the lotos are mentioned by Plout. de /s. et Os. 11, de Pyth. or. 12. At 
Denderah a king offers Horos the lotos with the words: ‘I offer thee the flower, which 
was in the beginning, the glorious lily of the great water. Thou camest forth from the 
midst of its leaves in the town of Chmun (Hermopolis magna) and didst lighten the earth, 


774 Modifications in the shape 


also in Indian! religion. The Greeks, therefore, who took lightning 
to be made of the same fiery substance as the sun?, might well 
acquiesce in a lotiform thunderbolt. Moreover, the sky-god’s older 
weapon, the double axe of immemorial sanctity, had been combined 
in most intimate union with the three-petalled lily®. Small wonder 
that its successor, the classical keraunés, retained at least a trace of 
the former affinity+ 


which was still wrapped in darkness’ (H. Brugsch of. cit. i. 121, citing A. E. Mariette 
Denderah Paris 1880 1, 55, a). Another text at Denderah says: ‘The sun, which was 
from the beginning, rises like a hawk from the midst of its lotos-bud. When the doors of 
its leaves open in sapphire-coloured brilliance, it has divided the night from the day’ (H. 
Brugsch of. czt. i. 103, citing his Geographische Inschriften altigyptischer Denkmaler 
Leipzig 1884 p. 764 no. 55). Many monuments show the hawk, the embodiment of Horos 
(supra i. 241, 341), Supported on a lotos (Goodyear of. czt. p. 6 f. pls. 1, 53 &, 5—73 435 
3, 93 cp. 44, 2, 6), Thothmes iii is portrayed presenting lotos-flowers and geese to a 
hawk-headed Ra at Amada (Goodyear of. cit. p. 6 pl. 1, 8). Amenophis iii similarly 
presents lotos-flowers to Amen (supra i. 347) at Thebes (Goodyear of. cit. p. 6 pl. 1, 6). 

The third member of the Memphitic triad, Nefer-Tem, a god of the rising sun, was from 
the earliest times connected with the lotos. In the text of Unas, a king of the ‘fifth 
dynasty, the dead ruler is compared (392 ff. ed. Maspero) to a lotos at the nostrils of the 
Great Sekhem, and it is said: ‘ Unas hath risen like efer-7em from the lotus to the 
nostrils of Ra, and he goeth forth from the horizon on each day, and the gods are sancti- 
fied by the sight of him” (E. A. Wallis Budge of. czt. i. 520 f.). Nefer-Tem is commonly 
represented with a lotos-flower on his head (Lanzone of. cit. p. 385 ff. pls. 147 aod 148, 

A. Erman A Handbook of Egyptian Religion p. 76 fig. 52). 

1 In India the lotos seems to have borne aa the same character as in Egypt, though 
its significance is less readily perceived (on its decorative usage see A. Griinwedel 
Buddhist Art in India trans. A. C. Gibson, rev. J. Burgess London rgor p. tg f.). 

While Vishnu was musing on his mission, a lotos with the brilliance of a thousand 
suns sprang from his navel, and in the midst of this lotos appeared Brahma (A/égavata- 
Puréna 3. 20. 16). Hence Brahma is enthroned on a lotos and holds a lotos in his hand 
(Vishnu-Purdna 4.1). Vishna too has a lotos in one of his four hands (W. J. Wilkins 
Hindu Mythology Calcutta 1882 p. 102); and the rosary of the Vishnu-devotee may be 
made of lotos-seeds (E. W. Hopkins 7ke Religions of /ndia Boston etc. 1895 p. 502 Nn. 3). 
Krishna had the mark of a lotos beneath each foot : he decorated himself with the flower, 
waving a rose lotos in his hand and having a blue lotos attached to his ear (Ahdgavata- 
Purdna 10. 23. 22, 10. 30. 25, 10. 32. 2, 10. 35. 16). Sarasvati, the wife of Brahma or— 
according to the Vishnuites in Bengal—of Vishnu, sits upon a lotos (E. W. Hopkins of. cit. 
p- 451) or appears in the middle of a lotos-wreath (W. J. Wilkins of. cit. p. 92). Cri or 
Lakshmi, the bride of Vishnu, first emerged from the troubled waters of ocean and landed 
with a lotos in her hand: since that time the lotos has been one of her attributes (C. Joret 
Les Plantes dans Tantiquité et au moyen age Paris 1904 i. 2. 527 f.). The blue lotos is 
one of the arrows of Kama, god of love (zd. 2b. p. 528). 

Vishnu is commonly regarded as a solar god. But this is doubtful (H. Oldenberg Za 
Religion du Véda trans. V. Henry Paris 1903 p. 190 ff.). With his solarity stands or falls 
that of Brahma, and that of Vishnu’s avatar Krishna. 

% Supra i. 578 0. 3,777 0- 4, 1. 11. 

3 Supra p. 524 ff. 

+ Cp. the relation of Perun to the iris (J. Grimm TZeutontc Mythology trans. J. S. 
Stallybrass London 1882 i. 183 : ‘The South, Slavs call the iris perznik, Perun’s flower,’ 
etc.). : 

J. Grimm of. cit, 1882 i. 183, 1883 iii. rrg1, 1888 iv. 1346, 1672, 1790 n. 1, and H. 





of the thunderbolt 775 


Friend Flowers and Flower Lore London 1883 i. 72 f., 164 ff., 343 collect the names of 
flowers associated in the Germanic area with thunder or thunder-gods: e.g. in Germany 
the orpine is Donnerkraut, the ground-ivy Donnerrebe, the stonecrop or houseleek 
Donnerbart (cp. English /o-barbe, Jubard, Jupiter’s Beard (J. Britten—R. Holland 
A Dictionary of English Plant-names London 1879 ii. 280, 281, 282), French Joubarbe 
(P. Sébillot Ze Folk-lore de France Paris 1906 iii. 472, 495, 507)), the fumitory Donner- 
Jiug, the field eryngo Donnerdistel, and a tangled vegetable growth Donnerbesen (supra 
p- 642 f.); in Denmark the burdock is ¢ordenskreppe; in Norway the aconite is Zhor-hat 
and Thor-hjalm ; on Dartmoor the Potentilla Tormentilla, a plant used as a febrifuge, 
was Zhor-mantel (a corruption of tormentz/) ; in Somerset the ox-eye daisy is dun-daisy or 
thunder-daisy. P. Sébillot of. czt. iii. 472 adds French parailels : in the Walloon district 
the wild poppy is called flewr du téni (at Liége), fleur di ténir, tonir, tonoire and placed 
in the timbers of the roof, while on the festival of the Assumption (Aug. 15) bunches of 
St-John’s-wort called Djéx fleur du ténir are blest and sprigs of it thrown on the fire to 
keep off lightning ; in Béarn a plant with a yellow flower named erzg/ade, ‘lightning,’ is 
treated in the same way; etc. 

The reason for such names is sometimes obscure, but often turns on a fancied resem- 
blance in colour, sound, shape, etc. H. Friend of. cit. i. 72 says: ‘The Thistle again was 
sacred to Thor, its blossom being supposed to receive its bright colour from the lightning, 
from which it consequently protected the person or building placed under its guardian- 
ship.’ J. Britten—R. Holland A Dictionary of English Plant-names London 1884 iii. 468 
note that Sz/ene inflata is called Thunderbolts at Higham in Kent, ‘where the children 
snap the calyxes, which explode withaslight report.’ 27d. 2b. adopt a similar explanation 
of the fact that in west Cumberland the Ste/aria Holostea is known as the Thuzner- 
flower. Eid. op. cit. 1879 ii. 305: ‘ Papaver Rheas...‘* About Wooler [in Northumber- 
land] it was wont to be called the Thunder-flower or /zghtnings ; and children were afraid 
to pluck the flower, for if, perchance, the petals fell off in the act, the gatherer became 
more liable to be struck with lightning ; nor was the risk small, for the dGeciduousness of 
the petals is almost proverbial.” Bot. E. Bord., p. 31.’ 

Various plants were named after Zeus or Iupiter. Avds dv@0s=some sort of pink, perhaps 
Dianthus inodorus, ‘carnation’ (Theophr. 7st. p/. 6. 1. 1, 6. 6. 2, 6. 6. 11, 6. 8. 3 and 
ap. Athen. 680 £, Nik. ag. Athen. 6848, Hesych. and Souid. s.v., Plin. mat. hist. 21. 59 
and 67 Iovis flos). Avs Bddavos usually = Cas/anea vesca, ‘chestnut’ (Theophr. “2st. 
louie eo lew S03, FO. OIOSKOr .h-0 I4's) P. 197 sprengell | see also 
Hermippos g¢opuopipa frag. 1. 20 (frag. com. Gr. ii. 407 ff. Meineke) ag. Athen. 28 a as 
glossed by Hesych. s.v., Athen. 53D, Mnesitheos af. Athen. 54C), though the Latin 
equivalent, zwglans for ovis glans, means ‘ walnut’ (Varr. de ding. Lat. 5. 102, Plin. maz. 
hist. 15. 86-—g1r, Macrob. Sat. 3. 18. 2 ff., ad.) ; but the Greek name was sometimes given 
to a Pontic variety of nut (Hermonax and Timachidas ag. Athen. 53 B—c, cp. Hesych. 
Joc. cit.), or applied to nuts in seneras (Zonar. ex. s.v. Baddvous Acéds' Ta Kdpua* Tov 
Weddod- Aros Baddvous Néyoust Ta Kapva ot m)etous, cp. Serv. in Verg. ecd. 8. 30 nam nuces 
in tutela sunt Iovis; unde et inuglandes vocantur, quasi Lovis glandes). Avds 7Aaxdrn = ver- 
vain (supra p. 397 n. 0: but English Jupiter's Distaff is yellow wild clary, and /upiter’s 
Staff is great mullein (J. Britten—R. Holland of. cet. ii. 282, H. Friend of. cz. i. 164)). 
Avds 3¢pva = Chrysanthemum coronartum, ‘ox-eye’ (anon. carmen Graecum de herbis 132, 
an Ionic poem of s. iii A.D. printed in F. S. Lehrs’ ed. of Oppian and Nikandros Parisiis 
1846 p. 172, equates it with Bov@Gadpor and stresses its virtues as a prophylactic etc.). 
Avsarupov = Diospyros Lotus, a species of cherry (Theophr. 27st. pl. 3. 13. 3, Galen de 
alimentorum facultatibus 2. 38 (vi. 621 Kiihn)). /ovis barba=Anthyllis Barba-Jovis, the 
silver-bush, commonly called ‘ Jupiter’s beard’ (Plin. wat. hist. 16. 76). Lovis lamma=a 
flower with red stalks (Plin. wat. hist. 27. 44). See further J. Murr Die Pfhanzenwelt in 
der griechischen Mythologie Innsbruck 1890 p. 268 f. (‘ Heilige Blumen des Zeus’) and F. 
Olck in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. v. 1082 f., M. C. P. Schmidt 2d. v. 1144. 

Note also xepatviov = Tuber aestivum, ‘thunder-truffle’ (Theophr. Aist. pl. 1. 6. 5, 
where kepavvov is F. Wimmer’s correction of xpdviov codd. The word is quoted by 


776 Modifications in the shape 


The lotiform bolt was, however, differently treated in different 
parts of the Graeco-Italic world. Ionian art in the east and Etruscan 
art in the west commonly joined lotos-flower to lotos-bud!. The 
Greeks of Greece proper, during the sixth and fifth centuries B.C., 





Fig. 740. 


preferred to add flower to flower or bud to bud?: the former scheme 
was a favourite with their vase-painters (fig. 740)’, the latter was 
more convenient for their sculptors (fig. 669)‘. 

The lightning-lotos on Greek soil underwent three distinct 
modifications. In the first place its petals, stylised into rays (fig. 740), 
Athen. 61 F, 62 A as yepdvevov, cp. Eustath. zz Z/. p. 1017, 19). It was believed that 


autumn rains, and thunder-peals in particular, hardened these tubers (Theophr. frag. 167 
ap. Athen. 62 B and af. Plin. zat. hist. 19. 37, Luv. 5. 116 ff.)—a notion which Plutarch 





is at pains to disprove (Plout. symp. 4. 2. 2). 7 

1 Jacobsthal of. czt. p. 13 ff. 2 Id. ib, p. 23 ff. 

3 Fig. 740 is from a black-figured 2y/éx, found at Corneto, now at Berlin, which has ] 
inside a Gorgéneton on red ground, outside an assembly of gods on white ground (E. Gerhard _ 
Griechische und etruskische Trinkschalen des kiniglichen Museums zu Berlin Berlin 1843 
p: 5 ff. pl. 4—5, Furtwangler Vasensamml. Berlin i. 449 f. no. 2060): the excerpt shows ’ 


Zeus and Hera. 
For red-figured examples see ¢.g. supra p. 25 pl. i, p. 26 f. fig. 13, p. 732 fig. 664. 
4 Supra p. 740 fig. 669. 


of the thunderbolt 997 


were soon transformed into naturalistic flames issuing from the 
floral (fig. 665) or gwasz-floral calyx (fig. 741)*. The vases render 
such flames in red, and it may be presumed that this variation on 
the lotos was introduced by some painter with an eye to effective 
colouring. It spread to other arts because of its obvious suitability. 
After all, lightning-flashes are more like flames than flowers. 

Secondly, the sepals of the calyx developed into wings. At first 
the calyx itself was feathered. This might happen either to the 
single calyx, as e.g. on the bronze reliefs of the chariot at Perugia’, 
or to the double calyx, as e.g. on a red-figured otyle signed by 
the potter Hieron‘. Later, a pair of wings was detached from the 
calyx, as on many vase-paintings of the fifth century (figs. 10, 
666)°. And ultimately a second pair of wings was added to 
balance the first, as on the coins® and vases of south Italy (supra 
i. 337 fig, 260)’.. There can be little doubt that the winged 
thunderbolt, repeatedly mentioned or implied in Attic poetry*, was 
originally modelled on the eagle, the recognised lightning-bird of 
the Greeks®. Aischylos in an extant fragment of his Vzobe makes 
Zeus himself declare: 


‘Yea, Amphion’s house’ 
Will I burn down with eagles bearing fire!’ 


1 Supra p. 733 fig. 665. 

* From a red-figured £y/ix at Berlin (E. Gerhard Griechische und etruskische Trink- 
schalen des kiniglichen Museums zu Berlin Berlin 1843 p. 14 ff. pl. 8, 2 (interior: Selene), 
p. 20 ff. pl. ro—11 (exterior: Gigantomachia, part of which=my fig. 741), Overbeck G7. 
Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 361 f. no. 14 Atlas pl. 4, 12a, 12 b, Furtwangler Vasensamml. 
Berlin ii. 589 ff. no. 2263) attributed to ‘the Brygos painter’ (J. D. Beazley Attic Red- 

igured Vases tn American Museums Cambridge Mass. 1918 p. 94, Hoppin Red-fg. 
Vases i. 124 no. 19), who was at work during the first third of s. v B.c. Zeus, in chz/dn 
and chlamjs, steps on to his four-horse chariot and quits Olympos (pillar), escorted by 
Herakles, with ¢7zcot-costume, chz¢én, lion-skin, bow, etc., and by Athena, who already 
spears Enkelados. 

3 E. Petersen ‘Bronzen von Perugia’ in the Rém. Mitth. 1894 ix. 274 ff. fig. 3 and in 
Ant. Denkm. ii. 2. 3 pl. 14, Brunn—Bruckmann Denkm. der gr. und rom. Sculpt. 
pls. 588, 589 with text by A. Furtwangler, Reinach Rép. Reliefs iii. 102 no.-1. Date: 
S. Vi) B.C. 

+ Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases iii. 137 ff. no. E 140, R. Kekulé in the Anz. d. Inst. 1872 
xliv. 226 ff., Mon. d. Inst. ix pl. 43, Wien. Vorlegebl. A pl. 7, A. Baumeister in his 
Denkm. iit. 1856 f. fig. 1958, J. D. Beazley Attic Red-figured Vases in American Museums 
Cambridge Mass. 1918 p. 102, Hoppin Red-fig. Vases ii. 60 f. no. 13 fig. Date: first third 
of s. Vv B.C. 

° Supra p. 24 fig. 10, p. 735 fig. 666 (with which cp. the s¢¢nos in the Louvre (G 370) 
noted supra p. 735 Nn. 4). 

§ P. Jacobsthal of. czt. p. 37 n. 1. ORLNEDs 

® Soph. O.C. 1460 f., Eur. suppl. 860, H.f. 177 ff., Bacch. go, Aristoph. av. 1714 
with schol. ad /oc., cp. Lucr. 6. 383, Verg. Aen. 5. 319 with Serv. ad doc., Val. Flacc. 6. 
55 f., Claud. de raptu Proserpinae 2. 228 f. 9 Supra, Pp. 751 nN. 2. 

0 Aisch. Viob. frag. 160 Nauck? ap. Aristoph. av. 1247 f. with schol. ad loc. 


778 


Modifications in the shape 





hic. 741. 


a a 


= 


of the thunderbolt 490 


And H. Usener' rightly insisted that the phrase attests a long- 
standing popular belief. Those who regarded the eagle as the 
natural bringer of the lightning would of course take the wings of 
the thunderbolt to be eagle’s pinions?. 

Thirdly, the central spike of the lotos came to be spirally twisted 
—a variation in shape which has been diversely explained. T. H. 
Martin’, followed by G. Fougeres‘, recalls the twist of tow wound 
round incendiary arrows. A. Conze and P. Jacobsthal® suggest a 
rendering of curled flames. P. Sarasin® contends that lightning in 
particular was often symbolised by a spiral line. Personally I suspect 
that lightning was from of old believed to strike with a screw-like or 
helical movement. This, as R. F. Crook’ argues, is really implied 
by the Homeric epithet of Zeus, erpikéraunos*, ‘who twisteth the 
thunderbolt®” and its Virgilian equivalent, cam fulmina torques, 
‘when thou twistest thy bolt.’ Such a belief might be strengthened 
by the occasional appearance of lightning in spiral form. As to 
this, Aischylos is explicit : 

Forth flash 
The lightning’s fiery spirals". 
And Mr C. T. R. Wilson, our first authority on the subject of 
electrical meteorology, tells me (Nov. 4, 1921) that he has himself 
seen lightning ‘quite spiral.’ But, be the explanation what it may, 
the spiral twine with its suggestion of rotatory, penetrating flight 


1H. Usener ‘ Keraunos’ in the Rhein. Mus. 1905 |x. 26 (=id. Kleine Schriften 
Leipzig—Berlin 1913 iv. 493). 

* We need not, however, imagine with A. H. Sayce ‘The winged thunderbolt’ in 
The Academy (quando?) that the winged bolt on the coins of Elis is derived from the 
double eagle of the Hittites. 

3 T. H. Martin La foudre Pélectricité et le magnétisme chez les anciens Paris 1866 
P. 389 ff. 

4 G, Fougeres in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. ii. 1358 f. 

> P. Jacobsthal of. cz¢. p. 23. 

§ P. Sarasin in the Festschrift fiir Fritz Sarasin Basel 1919 cited by S. Reinach in 
the hee Arch. 1921 il. 203 f. Cp. eg. supra i. 289 fig. 209. 

7 R. F. Crook ‘ Did the ancient Greeks and Romans understand the japonesee of 
the effect produced by rifling in modern guns?’ in the Class. Rev. 1916 xxx. 46 ff. 

§ Eight times in the Ziad (1. 419, 2. 478, 781, 8.2, II. 773, 12. 252, 16.232, 24. 529), 
seven in the Odyssey (7. 164, 180, 14. 268, 17. 437, 19. 365, 20. 75, 24. 24); five times in 
the Aymms (h. Dion. 4, h. Dem. 485, h. Ap. 5, h. Aphr. 36, h. Her. 5), thrice in Hesiod 
(o.d. 52, 273 (v.2.), frag. 5. 1 Rzach), and sporadically later (Bruchmann Zfith. deor. 
Pp.‘ 141). 

9 So G. Meyer in G. Curtius Studien zur griechischen und lateinischen Grammatik 
1875 vii. 181 ff., Prellwitz Atym. Worterb. d. Gr..Spr.2 p. 456. But F. Bechtel in Glotta 
1907 i. 74 f. and in his Lexzlogus 20 Homer Halle a. d.S. 1914 p. 312, followed by Boisacq 
Dict. étym. de la Langue Gr. p. 958, still renders ‘ whose joy is the thunderbolt.’ 

10 Verg. Aen. 4. 208, cp. 6. 592 f., 9. 705 f., alzd. 

1 Aisch. P. v. 1083 f. édixes & exAdwrovar | orepomis Cdmupee. 


780 Modifications in the shape 


became extremely popular in Hellenistic! and Roman times (supra 
i. 607 fig. 478, ii. 750 fig. 689, pl. xxxiv). 

These three modifications of the lotos—flames, wings, and spiral 
twist—are all to be found on the wonderful series of silver coins 
struck by the temple-mints at Olympia (pl. xxxvi). The coins in 
question form the subject of an important monograph by C. T. 
Seltman, who has devoted a special section to their treatment of the 
thunderbolt*. It appears that the basis of the Olympian design was, 
from first to last, the duplicated lotos. Flame-lines, commencing as 
a detail on coins issued from c. 510 B.C. by the mint of Zeus 
(pl. xxxvi, 1 ff.), end by becoming the principal feature on coins 
issued from c. 421 B.C. by the mint of Hera (pl. xxxvi, 11 f.). 
Wings, which begin as a mere feathering of the calyx (pl. xxxvi, 1), 
develop into pinions of various shapes and sizes. The thunderbolt is, 
in fact, transformed before our eyes into a winged creature instinct 
with a life of its own. Now it spreads its glorious vanes like a 


1 £.g. on an Apulian hratér at Naples (Heydemann Vasensamml. Neapel p. 591 ff. 
no. 3256, E. Braun in the Az. d. Lust. 1836 viii. 99 ff., Mon. ad. Lust. ii pls. 3o—32, 
Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 182 ff. (N), Atlas pl. 1, 26 (Zeus only), C. Robert Die 
Marathonschlacht in der Poikile und wetteres tiber Polygnot Halle 1895 p. 36 ff. (omitting 
restorations), Reinach 2é. Vases i. g8—100). 

? The arrangement of the coins on pl. xxxvi is not primarily chronological, but typo- 
logical: nos. 1—4=flower+flame+ wings; nos. 5, 6=two exceptional forms; nos. 7, 
8=closing wings; no. 9=flower+ flame, without wings; no. 1o=flower+ wings, with 
flame reduced to a #ztnzmums; nos. 11, 12=flames increased to a maximum. The 
specimens figured are the following : 

t McLean collection=Seltman no. 14, a pl. 1, K u& of Series ii (c. 5to—c. 471 B.C.). 

2 McLean collection=Seltman no. 131, a pl. 4, BK 76 of Series xiii (¢. 432— 
€. 420 BiC.): 

3 McLean collection=Seltman no. 124, c pl. 4, BH Bx of Series xii (c. 452—- 
CanAB 2 Beale 

4 McLean collection, cp. Seltman p. 57 pl. 8, 7 of Series x (c. 452—c. 432 B.C.). 

5 McLean collection=Seltman no. 143, a pl. 5, BP y of Series xv (c. 421— 
¢. 365 B.C.). 


6 McLean collection, cp. Seltman p. 32 f. pl. 8, 35 of Series xxv (c. 191 B.C. —). 

7 McLean collection=Seltman no. 154, c pl. 5, BT? y@ of Series xvii (c. 421— 
foe, AO oh) 6 

8 British Museum=Seltman no. 172, e pl. 5, BX 66 of Series xviii (c. 421— 
€. 305 B.C.) 

9 McLean collection=Seltman no. 164, a pl. 5, BV 6¢ of Series xviii (c. 421— 
305 °B.C.): 


10 McLean electrotype of specimen at Vienna=Seltman no. 141, c pl. 5, BO yA of 
Series xv (c. 421—c. 365 B.C.). 
11 Leake collection=Seltman no. 242, a pl. 9, EA ya of Series xxvi (c. 421— 
c. 385 B.C.). 
12 McLean collection=Seltman no. 266, a pl. 9, EH yz of Series xxvii (c. 421— 
c. 385 B.C.). 
°C. T. Seltman ‘The Temple Coins of Olympia’ in Momisma 1913 viii. 23—65 
pls. 1—4, 26. 1914 ix. 1—33 pls. 5—8, 2. 1921 xi. 75—117 pls. gQ—12.- 





Plate XXXVI 





Silver coins struck by the temple-mints at Olympia, showing 
various types of Thunderbolt. 


See page 780 f. 





of the thunderbolt 781. 


butterfly in the sunlight (pl. xxxvi, 3). Now it half-closes them 
(pl. xxxvi, 7). Now again it furls them completely and relapses 
into rest (pl. xxxvi, 8). The wings, according to Seltman, are 
either those of Nike or those of a bird, usually of an eagle the 
lightning-bird, but sometimes perhaps of a swallow (pl. xxxvi, 2) 
the harbinger of rain’. The spiral twist is introduced soon after the 
middle of s. v B.c. It first affects the central spike of the lotos 
(pl. xxxvi, 3), but early in s. iv involves the wings and sepals as 
well (fig. 742), ‘so that the thunderbolt may be thought of as 
spinning while it hurtles through the air?.’ 

Two curious types discovered by Mr Seltman call for separate 
notice. A statér issued by the mint of Zeus between c. 471 and 
c. 452 B.C. makes the sepals on the upper half of the bolt curl over 
to form serpent-heads (fig. 743)%. These must be regarded as an 





Fig. 742. 


arbitrary, but not altogether inappropriate, variation of the tendrils, 
which on many specimens occupy a like position. If Aischylos 
could describe the arrow of Apollon as ‘a winged glistering snake‘, 
an artist contemporary with the poet might well conceive the 
thunderbolt of Zeus as in part serpentiform. The lord of the azgés 
had snakes enough and to spare. 

Another statér, issued by the mint of Zeus c. 421 B.C., is of 
greater interest. The lower half of the bolt is here an unmistakable 
fly with head, eyes, body, wings, and legs complete (pl. xxxvi, 5). 
This is rightly, I think, interpreted by Mr Seltman’® as an allusion 
to the local cult of Zeus Apdémyzos. Since the said cult has often 
been misunderstood, it is worth while to state the main facts con- 
cerning it. When animal sacrifices were offered in hot weather, flies 
of course arrived in swarms and fastened on the carcases. This 


1 After P. Jacobsthal of. cét. p. 25 (‘Schwalbenfliigel’), cp. D’Arcy W. Thompson 
A Glossary of Greek Birds Oxford 1895 p. 192 [add Geopon. ft. 3. 8]. 

2 C. T. Seltman oc. czt. 1921 xi. 108 with no. 157 pl. 5, BT? yw (=my fig. 742) and 
no. 158 pl. 5, BT? 6a. 

3 C. T. Seltman /oc. czt. 1913 viii. 36 f. no. 42 pl. 2, AF avy (=my fig. 743), 1921 xi. 
107. 
4 Aisch. Zum. 181 mrnvov apynorny ow. 

5 C. T. Seltman Joc. czt. 1914 ix. 10, 1921 xi. 107. 


782 Modifications in the shape 


tended to disturb the ritual and was therefore undesirable. But to 
the superstitious Greek the buzzing myriads that claimed their 
share in the sacred feast seemed something of a divine visitation. 
If not the god himself!, they might at least be his emissaries*. 
Biting flies meant coming storm*—and who could tell? The safest 
course was to placate the little pests. Accordingly the Leucadians, 
before celebrating the festival of Apollon A&ézos, first sacrificed an 
ox to the flies‘—an almost unique example of direct sacrifice to 
living animals on Greek soil®. Aelian tells us that the flies, when 
gorged with the blood of the ox, took themselves off, and contrasts 
their mercenary conduct with that of the flies at Olympia, which 
did the right thing through sheer respect for the god®. Olympic 
flies, it would seem, though countless victims were offered, blood 
poured out, and flesh hung up, yet retired discreetly across the 
Alpheios, returning only when the festival was over’. Aelian, being 
a pious priest, is fond of edifying conclusions*. Unfortunately 
Antiphanes the comedian, who lived five centuries and more before 
Aelian, had long since spoilt the moral: parasites—he says—ought 
to be treated like the uninvited flies at Olympia, for which an ox is 
cut up by way of preliminary sacrifice’. We gather, then, that in 
s. iv B.C. the Olympians, like the Leucadians, slew an ox for the 
special benefit of the flies. As time passed and men ceased to 
believe in the divinity of flies, their expulsion would be attributed 
to some local hero or god. Thus Pausanias informs us that the 
inhabitants of Aliphera in Arkadia, before keeping their festival of 
Athena (?), sacrificed to a hero Wyzagros, the ‘Fly-catcher™.’ Simi- 


1 | have suggested that Zeus became a fly in pursuit of Io (sefra i. 532). Parallels are 
cited by J. Grimm Zeutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1883 iii. 998 f. 
(‘ Fly-shape’), 1888 iv. 1604 f., G. Weicker Der Seelenvogel Leipzig 1902 p. 30 n. 3, 
M. Wellmann in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Znic. vi. 2745 f. 

* In some parts of South Germany the stag-beetle is called donnergucg, donnerguge, 
donner puppe, perhaps because he likes to live in oak-trees, and it is believed that lightning 
will strike a house into which he is carried (J. Grimm af. cit. 1882 i. 183, 1883 ii. 692). 

% Theophr. de siynzs tempestatum 23 kai Td dnudctov 76 wepi Tas pvias Neyouevov ahnbés: 
érav yap ddxvwor opddpa, Vdaros onuetov, Geopon. I. 3. 9g Kal pviar éwi méov daxvovoae 
(sc. 6uBpov onuaivovor). 

4 Herakleides Pontikos xrices iepdv frag. 1 Tresp (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 197 Miiller) ap. 
Clem. Al. protr. 2. 39. 8 p. 30, 7-ff. Stahlin “Hpaxdeldns dé év Kricecw iepav epi rhv 
’"Axapvaviay @nolv, évOa To “Axriby éotw axpwrnpioy Kal Tod ’Amé\Nwvos TOD ’AKTiov 76 
iepdv, Tais wviats mpodverbar Boiv. 

® Cp. the Praisian sacrifice to a pig (sufrai. 653 n. 3). 

6 Ail. de nat. an. 11. 8 (@tovcr Body rats wviats, ai d€ éumAnodeioa Tod aiparos 
agpavlfovra). 7 Ail. de mat. an. §. 17. 

8 Sir J. E. Sandys A History of Classical Scholarship? Cambridge 1906 i. 336 f. 

® Antiphanes /ad. incert. frag. 5 (Frag. com. Gr. iii. 134 f. Meineke) ap. Athen. 4 F—5A. 

0 Paus. 8. 26. 7, cp. Souid. s.v. uulaypos 6 uuoOyjpas. 





of the thunderbolt 783 


larly Pliny states that at the Olympic festival a bull was immolated 
to a god named Myiodes, after which clouds of flies departed from 
the locality. Elsewhere he says that, when swarms of flies bring 
disease, the Eleans invoke a god called Myiacores and that, if he 
accepts their offering, the flies forthwith perish» At Rome neither 
fly nor dog would enter the temple of Hercules in the Forum 
Boarium®; for the hero, on distributing the flesh of the sacrifice, 
had summoned the god Myiagrus, who kept the flies away, and had 
left his club in the porch, which frightened the dogs‘. We are 
further told that the Romans sacrificed to Herakles Afpémyzos, 





Fig. 744- Fig. 745. 


‘Averter of Flies, the Eleans to Zeus Apdmyzos*’. Both Herakles 
and Zeus figure in the version preserved by Pausanias°: 


‘They say that Herakles the son of Alkmene, when sacrificing at Olympia, 
was worried by the flies. Thereupon it occurred to him, or perhaps somebody 
suggested to him, that he should sacrifice to Zeus Afdémyzos. And so the flies 
were sent packing across the Alpheios. The Eleans too are said to sacrifice in 
the same way to Zeus Afdmyzos, when they drive the flies out of Olympia.’ 


Thus by a strange, yet wholly understandable, ferzpéteza the 
sacrifice originally paid to the flies came ultimately to be paid to 
Zeus who drove them out’. 

Theriomorphism in the long run gives place to anthropo- 
morphism, and the winged thunderbolts of Greek art lead up to a 
guasi-human form. Square bronze coins struck by Maues, a Scythic 


1 Plin. zat. hist. 29. 106. 

2A tO LOn fb. 

3 Plin. zat. hist. 10. 79, Solin. 1. 11. The source may be Varro, cp. Plout. guaestt. 
Rom. go. Did kiwy suggest kvvduua? Similarly flies kept away from the temple of 
Aphrodite at Paphos (Andron of Halikarnassos frag. 16 (Frag. hist. Gr. ii. 352 Miiller) 
os Apollon. Aist. mir. 8), and from Mt Carina (v./, Carma) in Crete (Plin. zat. est. 

79)- 

<*Solims 1. r- 

5 Clem. Al. frotr. 2. 38. 4 p. 28, 25 f. Stahlin évratda (sc. év”"HXcdc) "Arropviy Ad 
Ovovow *Hretor: ‘Pwuator 6é ’Amouviw ‘ Hpakde?. 

6 Paus. 5. 14. 1. Cp. et. mag. p. 131, 23 f. "Ambuuos ol'rws 6 Zevs mapa rots Helos 
Tysarat, Hpaxdéous idpycauévou eri adrorporn Tay mudv, Schdll-Studemund azecd. i. 266 
*"Emidera Atés 10 dmouviov. 

7 H. K. E. Kohler’s attempt to identify ‘/upzter Apomyos’ on an engraved gem of 
the Orleans collection (Reinach Pierres Gravées p. 138 no. 59 pl. 126, E. Thraemer in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 1153) was wholly misleading. 


784 Modifications in the shape 


conqueror of the Greeks in northern India (? ¢. 130 B.C.), have for 
obverse design Zeus enthroned, holding a sceptre in his left hand 
and extending his right towards a small male figure, who seems 
to be an embodiment of the thunderbolt (figs. 744, 745). This 
humanised missile we may venture to name Keraunos? 

Flames, wings, and spiral twist remained as characteristic traits 
of the thunderbolt throughout the classical period. Virgil? works 
"all three into his description of Volcanus’ smithy : 


Iron the Cyclops forged in that great cave— 
Brontes and Steropes and bare-limbed Pyracmon. 
Thereof their hands had wrought a thunderbolt 
Of such sort as the Sire oft hurls from heaven 

To earth, part burnished—part was yet to make. 
Three rays of twisted rain, three more of cloud, 
Three of red fire and the winged southern wind, 
They blent with flashes fell and sound and fear 
And fury with its still pursuing flames. 


The Virgilian Cyclopes were fashioning their thunderbolt like 
armourers at work on some complicated engine of destruction. It 
was indeed natural that the sky-god’s bolt should borrow some at 
least of its features from weapons wielded by human hands. In 
Italy and Sicily, as Jacobsthal* observed, the central spike of the 
lotos, and likewise the lotos-bud, developed into a dagger-blade 
(fig. 746)° or an arrow-head (fig. 747)®% Also in the same region 
half arrow-heads or hooks came to be added on the side spikes of 
the bolt (fig. 748)’. The earliest examples of such treatment are, 


1 P. Gardner in the Brzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Greek and Scythic Kings pp. lviii, 70 
pl. 16, 9, 2d. Types of Gk. Coins p. 210 pl. 14, 24 (=my fig. 744). In his description of 
both plates Prof. Gardner speaks of a ‘female figure’; but in Zyfes of Gk. Coins p. 210 
he tacitly corrects his own blunder and says: ‘we see a male figure, evidently an im- 
personation of the thunderbolt which is indeed not entirely transmuted into his form, but 
partly appears over his head and at his sides. This is a very interesting invention of the 
Indo-Greeks.’ Fig. 745 is from another specimen in the British Museum. 

2 Supra p. it ff. Whether the naked boy with a torch, who on the Naples 
Prometheus-sarcophagus (Gerhard Ant. Bildw. i. 304 ff. pl. 61, Welcker Alt. Denkm. ii. 
286 ff. pl. 14, K. Bapp in Roscher Lex. AZjth. iii. 3108 f.) appears to be leaping down 
from the head of Zeus towards Hephaistos, is rightly regarded as the thunderbolt personi- 
fied (so E. Petersen in the Jahré. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1910 xxv. 126) is very 
doubtful. 

3 Verg. Aen. 8. 424 ff. 

4 P. Jacobsthal of. cit. p. 21 f. 

> From Gerhard Zur. Spiegel iv. 10 f. pl. 282. 

§ From Gerhard Z¢r. Spiegel iii. 75 ff. pl. 74. 

7 P. Jacobsthal of. czt. pp. 22, 43 n-2. I figure the reverse of a bronze coin of 
Kentoripai dating from the latter half of s. iii B.c. (Brzt. Mus. Cat. Coins Sicily p. 55 
nos. 3—6, Hunter Cat. Coins i. 177 nos. 2, 3 pl. 13, 2, 4—6, G. F. Hill Cotns of Ancient 
Szctly London 1903 p. 219 pl. 14, 21, Head Hist. mum. p. 135). 





of the thunderbolt 785 


however, to be found on Attic black-figured vases belonging to the 
close of s. vi B.C. A kylix from Vulci signed by the potter Phrynos 
shows the birth of Athena from the head of Zeus?: the thunderbolt 





| 

Fig. 746. Fig. 748. Fig. 747. 
in the god’s right hand has a heart-shaped pistil, probably meant 
for an arrow-head, starting from the centre of its lotos-flower. And 
a similar £y//zx from Vulci signed by the potter Xenokles represents 
the three sons of Kronos standing side by side between two winged 


UWF 
fit D7 


— lg 
—Z 

Z 
ie 


\\ 


A 
A 
iY 





horses (fig. 749)”, Poseidon, the central figure, carries a large 
trident; Zeus, a thunderbolt with hooked prongs; Hades, an un- 
certain object, perhaps a horn’. 


1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases ii. 223 no. B 424, figured zz/ra § g (h) ii (@). 

2 Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases ii. 223 f. no. B 425, Lenormant—de Witte ZZ. mon. cér. i. 
43 ff. pl. 24a (=my fig. 749), Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 28 ff. (S), C. Scherer 
in Roscher Lex. Myth. i. 1797 ff. 

3 T have not reproduced the red-figured s¢émmnos of ‘strong’ style from Chiusi usually 
compared with this vase (T. Panofka in the Arch. Zett. 1851 ix. 305 ff. pl. 27, C. von 
Paucker 74. p. 376 ff.. T. Panofka in the Adh. d. berl. Akad. 1854 Phil.-hist. Classe 


Goin 50° 


786 The thunderbolt of Zeus 


(y) The thunderbolt of Zeus and the trident of Poseidon. 


The vase-painting just described raises a problem of consider- 
able interest. Was the trident of Poseidon originally identical with 
the thunderbolt of Zeus ? 

It is commonly supposed that the trident was what Aischylos 
calls it—the ‘fish-striking device’ of a sea-god'. Indeed it can 
hardly be doubted that classical antiquity as a whole viewed the 
trident in this way®. But the point is not, what the Greeks and 
Romans of the classical age took the trident to be, but what it 
originally was. And here there is room for divergence of opinion. 

In the middle of last century F. G. Welcker* argued that the 
trident, properly considered, was not a mere fish-spear, but rather a 
sign and symbol that Poseidon was lord over a third portion of the 
world. Welcker, who usually took a sane view of facts, has here 
been deserted by his better judgment. He is following the erroneous 
guidance of Plutarch and other allegorists of Graeco-Roman times‘. 

H. B. Walters® in 1893 struck out a new line of investigation. 
Observing that Poseidon’s trident, as represented on votive pémakes 
or terra-cotta tablets found at Penteskuphia near Corinth and 
referable to the period 650—550 B.C.*, was often, especially on the 
earlier examples, shaped like a Jotos, he inferred that the art-type 
of the trident had been developed out of the art-type of a lotiform 
sceptre. Poseidon—he suggested—was at first simply Zeus in his 
maritime aspect. Both deities were then entitled to bear the sceptre. 
But by a gradual process of differentiation Poseidon’s sceptre was 
transformed into a trident, this transformation being prompted by 
another of the god’s attributes, namely his tunny-fish. Thus the 


p- 579 ff. pl. 3, 16, Reinach Rép. Vases i. 373, 2, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus 
p- 260 ff.), because it appears to have been, not merely extensively restored, but funda- 
mentally transformed. According to K. Wernicke (Miiller-—Wieseler—Wernicke Azz. 
Denkm. ii. 1. 40 f. pl. 4, 1), its reverse showed originally three bearded men with long 
thorn-sticks : this commonplace gezre scene the forger altered into a mythological group 
of deep significance, by giving each man a lotiform thunderbolt with dagger-blade ends, 
two of them a very suspicious lightning-flash, and the third a trident ! Unfortunately the 
vase itself has disappeared, so that Wernicke’s contention cannot be proved : still, it is all 
too probable, and the vase-painting must remain suspect. 

1 Aisch. s.c. Th. 130 f. 6 @ tamos rovTouédwy dvakt | lyOvBbAw paxave Ilocedav. 

2 See e.g. Preller—Robert G7. AZth. i. 570, F. Durrbach in Daremberg—Saglio 
Dict. Ant. iv. 60. 

3 Welcker Gr. Gotterl. i. 628 ff. 

4 Plout. de Zs. e¢ Os. 76, schol. Aisch, P. v. 922, Serv. in Verg. Aen. 1. 133, Myth. 
Watters esol t.00s 20. 

5 H. B. Walters ‘ Poseidon’s Trident’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1893 xiii. 13 ff. 

6 Furtwangler Vasensamml. Berlin i. 47 ff. nos. 347—955, Frankel in the Ant. 
Denkm. i. 3 f. pls. 7, 8. 





and the trident of Poseidon 787 


evolution of Poseidon from Zeus was followed by the evolution of 
the trident from the sceptre. Two thorny questions are here inter- 
twined—the relation of Poseidon to Zeus and that of the trident to 





Fig. 750. 


the sceptre. On the former and larger question I have already 
touched!. On the latter Mr Walters has got together a considerable 
array of evidence (fig. 750)”. But his facts, it seems to me, are 


1 Supra p. 582 fi. 

* I reprint the illustration given by Mr Walters in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1893 xiii. 17. 
Nos. 1—21 are taken from the Penteskuphia p/zakes at Berlin, nos. 22—26 from vases in 
the British Museum: 

No. 1=Furtwangler Vasens. Berlin i. 85 f. no. 802. 
= 5 Nh 5 1.52 no. 384. 
i. 49 no. 348. 

i. 50 no. 368, Frankelin Ant. Denkm. i. 3 pl. 7, 28. 
= aa of re if dts KOR eivdliee Be ie 1 . ale vn et 
= Las Oto. ASS. ell ss f Fal See ys 1gic 

1.92 no. 843. 

1.55 No. 453. 

50—2 


788 The thunderbolt of Zeus 


susceptible of a different interpretation. Trident and sceptre alike 
were lotiform. Why? Possibly because the lotos was a prevalent 
motif of decoration'. The thunderbolt too, as we have seen’, was 
lotiform, and largely for the same reason. There is therefore, so far 


g=Furtwangler Vasens. Berlini.gt no. 838. 


1o= A Py % i. 52 no. 387, Frankel in Ant. Denkm. i. 3 pl. 7, 18. 
pss re a re 1105 f210.. 550,08 0 Nas RS 5.6 eB ply some 
12= A Fr. F i. 81° m0,..780,, 135 3 sp oe Bul. suas 
a Pe as is le St) NOs sr 

a “t ee = i. 86 no. 803. 

15= 99 ” ” i. 55 NO. 450. 

16= iy as S 1,56 no.460;,  ,; es ap ode BY PLaury ae 
W= Pe ce * 1. Ole eNO. 4G) Fibs ” » 1. 3 pl. 7, 20. 
18= PA * p i. 100 no. 899, __—«s, sf ne 1. 3 pl. 7, 276 
19 = +; oe FS 1 58. ‘NOLAy os 9 a5 Pe Prem ee 2) age fryer 
20 = 3 + 5 18S. NOmaye, Si . i) ik 3 pl yee 
21 5 He 1/67 (Ow Oa, ts, Ha io dagepls zee 


22= Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases ii. 66 f. no. B 57 (lonic amphora) trident held by Poseidon. 

23=Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases ii. 156 no. B 246 (black-figured amphora) sceptre held by 
Ariadne (?). 

24= Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases ii. 24 fig. 32, 117 no. B 166 (black-figured amphora) sceptre 
held by Zeus. 

25= Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases ii. 223 no. B 424 (black-figured £f///x) sceptre held by Zeus. 

26= Brit. Mus. Cat. Vases ii. 227 no. B 428 (later black-figured £//zx) trident held by 
Nereus. 

Of the forms here tabulated the most abnormal is no. 25, which occurs on the £y//éx by 
Phrynos cited above (Lenormant—de Witte Z/. mon. cér. i. 192 f. pl. 56, B=my 
fig. 751: introduction of Herakles to Olympos). The four-pronged trident, no. 21, can be 





paralleled from a fifth-century statér of Melos (R. Jameson in the Rev. Mum. iv Série 
190g xill. 192 pl. 5, 16=my fig. 752, Head Hzst. num.” p. 892). 

1 W. H. Goodyear 7he Grammar of the Lotus London 1891 passim, A. Riegl — 
Stilfragen Berlin 1893 p. 154 ff., O. Montelius Die ateren Kulturperioden im Orient und 
tn Europa Stockholm 1903 i. 77 ff. 

L. Maltenin the Jahrd. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1914 xxix. IQ n. 2 says: 
‘ Urspriinglich fiihrt Poseidon das Feuersymbol in Blumenform..., ein Residuum davon 
z.B. noch auf den korinthischen Pinakes..., wo die florale Bildung der Poseidonwaffe 
nicht sekundare Ornamentalisierung ist, sondern Rest der alten Blumenbildung.’ 

2 Supra p. 769 ff. 





and the trident of Poseidon 789 


as the lotos is concerned, no more cause to connect the trident with 
the sceptre than to connect it with the thunderbolt. 

In 1898 O. Gilbert, undeterred by an emphatic protest on the 
part of C. Robert!, announced that Poseidon’s trident ‘must be 
essentially identical with the lightning? He pointed out that the 
Lliad describes Poseidon as— 


Holding in his stout hand a dread long-edged 
Sword like the lightning *—. 


and that the mark of Poseidon’s trident to be seen on the Akropolis 
at Athens‘ is comparable with the e/jsza or enelysta caused by the 
lightning of Zeus®. H. Usener in 1905 likewise declared for the 
‘original identity of the Poseidonian trident with the thunderbolt °.’ 
He too quoted the lines from the //zad and laid stress on the resem- 
blance of the hypaethral’ trident-mark at Athens to the hypaethral' 
bidental or lightning-monument of the Romans. Lastly he stated, 
on the authority of G. Loeschcke, that the weapon of Zeus is some- 
times tridentiform®. Similar views were expressed in 1907 by the 
mythologist E. H. Meyer” and in 1909 by the historian E. Meyer”. 


1 Preller—Robert Gr. Myth. i. 570. 

? Gilbert Gr. Gét¢erl. p. 170. 

3 71. 14. 384 ff. npxe & dpa ogi Iloceddwy évocixOwy, | dewdv kop ravinxes Exwv ev 
xewpl maxely, | elkeNov doreporn with schol. T.V. ad loc. twés tiv Tplaway, érel kal 
*Apxddes kal AitwXol wav dow ‘ dop”’ kaNodow* K.T.r. 

4 Hegesias frag. 7 (Script. hist. Alex. Mag. p. 143 Miller) af. Strab. 396, Apollod. 3. 
14. I, Paus. 1. 26. 5. See W. Judeich Zopographie von Athen Miinchen 1905 p. 250, 
M. L. D’Ooge The Acropolis of Athens New York 1908 p. 208. 

e Supra p. 21 

6 H. Usener ‘Keraunos’ in the Rhein. Mus. 1905 lx. 23 (=iad. Kleine Schriften 
Leipzig—Berlin 1913 iv. 490 f.). 

7 Not only was the pavement of the north porch of the Erechtheion left open so as to 
show the trident-mark in the rock beneath it, but there was a corresponding hole con- 
trived in the roof above it (W. Dorpfeld in the Ath. AZitth. 1903 xxviii. 466 ff., M. L. 
D’Ooge The Acropolis of Athens New York 1908 p. 208 f.). 

M. P. Nilsson ‘The Zxyjua Tpratvns in the Erechtheion’ in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 
[QOL xxi. 325—333 places the trident-mark in the north-west corner of the crypt of the 
west ce//a: but his view has not found acceptance (W. Judeich Zopographie von Athen 
Miinchen 1905 p. 250 n. 9). 

8 Fest. p. 333 8 30 ff. Miiller, p. 450, 2 ff. Lindsay, Vitr. 1. 2. 5; cp. Varr. de ling. 
Lat. 5. 66, Catus vel de liberis educandis ap. Non. Marc. p. 793, 23 ff. Lindsay, Ov. 
fast. 2.671 f., Plout. geaestt. Rom. 28. Supra i. 53, infra § 3 (c) iv (a). 

® I suppose that Loeschcke had in mind the £//ix signed by Xenokles (Brzt. Mus. 
Cat. Vases ii. 223 f. no. B 425, supra p. 785 fig. 749). H. Usener inthe Rheiz. Mus. 1905 
Ix. 27 n. 92 (=2zd. Kleine Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 1913 iv. 494 n. 92) observes that on 
a coin of Taouion (Tavium) in Galatia (Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Galatia etc. p. 27 pl. §, 12, 
figured zz/fra § 3 (c) iv (a)) Zeus holds ‘ dreizackigen Donnerkeil.’ 

10 E. H. Meyer in Roscher Lex. AZyth. ili. 2797 (‘ Dann fasst er (sc. Poseidon) seinen 
Dreizack, ein Sinnbild.,.des dreizackigen in eine Thunfischergabel umgestalteten Blitzes 
oder Sturmgeschosses’). 

UE. Meyer Geschichte des Altertums* Stuttgart—Berlin 1909 i. 2. 638 (‘Als Attribut 


790 The thunderbolt of Zeus 


In 1911 C. Blinkenberg? devoted a chapter to the subject and con- 
cluded that Poseidon’s trident ‘is an adaptation of the Hittite and 
Babylonian thunderweapon?,’ which entered Greece shortly after 
the Mycenaean age, that it was soon supplanted by the double form 





brought in from Assyria, and that it was therefore interpreted 
afresh as a fishing spear. He further draws attention to the iron 
tridents worshipped along with stone axes (‘thunderstones’) by the 
pariahs of southern India (fig. 753)’, and compares them with the 
trisula or trident of Civa, the post-Vedic successor of the Vedic 


tragt er (sc. Zeus Osogé) den Dreizack, vielleicht erst unter griechischem Einfluss—oder ist 
etwa der Dreizack des Poseidon als sein Attribut nur aus dem Blitz umgedeutet ?’). 

1C. Blinkenberg Zhe Thunderweaponin Religion and Folklore Cambridge 1911 
Pp. 50—57- 

2 Id. ib. p. 55, cp. 2b. p. 57: ‘ Briefly, then, the development was as follows :—from 
the old Babylonian representation of the lightning, z.e. two or three zigzag lines repre- 
senting flames, a tripartite thunderweapon was evolved and was carried east and west from 
that ancient seat of civilization. Together with the axe (in western Asia Minor the double- 
edged and towards the centre of Asia the single-edged axe) it became a regular attribute 
of the Asiatic thundergods. The extreme limits of its extension are India in the east and 
Greece in the west. The Indian trisula and the Greek triaina are both its descendants.’ 

3 [d. 7b. p. 8 ff. figs. 1, 2 (=my fig. 753), 3, p. 55 f. The figure here reproduced shows 
an ‘ earth-temple’ ina pariah quarter belonging to the village of Agravaram near Vellore. 
Dr Blinkenberg says: ‘The actual altar is 23 feet high, its surface 7} x 9} feet. On the 
altar are seen seven thunderstones... The trisula owes its white colour to the remains of 


and the trident of Poseidon 791 


storm-god Rudra, as represented on coins of the Indo-Bactrian 
kings’ (fig. 754)? and—I may add—as still to be seen in Civa- 
shrines (fig. 755)*. That the trident of Poseidon was originally a 
lightning-fork, later re-interpreted 
as a fish-spear, is an opinion which 
has commended itself to an increas- 
ing number of scholars. C. Fries in 
Tori*® Miss. j. E> Harrison in -19r2°, 
L. Malten in 1914°, O. Gruppe in 
1918’ and 19218, all accept this hy- 
pothesis, which—despite the efforts 
of reactionary criticism—continues 
to gain ground. 

The arguments advanced in its 
support are not all equally. valid. 
For instance, we must not, I think, 
attach importance to the passage 
cited from Homer ; for it may refer 
to a sword of the usual pattern, not 
to a trident at all. More to the 
the holy ashes (burnt cow-dung), of which 


something has been left from the last occasion 
of worship.’ 





Fig. 755- 


1 Td. ib. p. 55 f. figs. 28—30. 

2 I figure the reverse of a gold coin of Huvishka (¢c. 111—129 A.D.) in my collection. 
Cp. Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Greek and Scythic Kings p. 159 f. pl. 29, 10. Civa, with three 
faces and two arms, stands beside his bull Nandi (sara i. 637), holding a wreath and a 
trident. The legend OHPO=oesho, which may be a Prakrit *havesa representing the 
Sanskrit davesa, ‘the Lord of being,’—a title of Civa (E. J. Rapson in Zhe Journal of 
the Royal Asiatic Society 1897 p. 322 ff.). 

3 The iron trident (¢@/ah) here shown was obtained for me by Mr H. B. Thompson of 
Queens’ College, Cambridge, who stated that it ‘belongs to the worship of Siva,’ but 
held that it was of phallic origin. Height: 84 ins. 

4 C. Fries Die griechischen Gétter und Heroen vom astralmythologischen Standpunkte 
aus betrachtet Berlin 1911 p. 163 ff. 

® J. E. Harrison in the Class. Rev. 1912 xxvi. 197. 

6 L. Malten in the Jahrb. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1914 xxix. 191. 

7 O. Gruppe in the Nene Jahrb. f. klass. Altertum 1918 xli. 297. 

8 Gruppe Myth. Lit. 1921 p. 157. 


792 The thunderbolt of Zeus 


















point are the parallels adduced from the Indian area, where the 
association of iron tridents with ‘thunderstones’ is a very note- 
worthy fact. But most cogent of all is the analogy of the hypaethral 
trident-mark to the hypaethral dzdenta/, and indeed the whole history 
of the Athenian Erechtheion. 

The marks beneath its northern porch (fig. 756)! comprise 





Fig. 756. 


three small holes lying on a curve together with a fourth, larger 
and more irregular, at a little distance from them. These marks— 
I am disposed to conjecture—were originally a series of neolithic 
‘cup-marks?.’ If so, they are of peculiar interest as being the oldest 
traces of cult on the Athenian Akropolis. The exact significance 
of ‘cup-marks’ is unknown’; but it is noticeable that, wherev 


1 The plan given in the IIpaxrixa rijs éml rod Epexdelov émirporfs Athens 1853 pl. 5: 
is improved and completed by A. Michaelis in the Yahrd. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 
1902 xvii. 19 fig. 5 (=my fig. 756). Of the three trident-holes 4 is 1-25" deep, # is 2°7 
while /* is plugged at a depth of o'70™. These dimensions imply that the original * cup- 
marks’ had at some later time been bored much deeper to suit the trident-story. The 
Athenians were not above a yevvaiov Weddos. 

2 Bibliography in J. Schlemm Worterbuch zur Vorgeschichte Berlin 1908 pp. 500— 
504 figs a—d, J. Déchelette Manuel d’archéologie préhistorique Paris 1908 i. 618 n. 2. 
See also T. Rice Holmes Ancient Britain and the Invasions of Julius Caesar Oxford 1907 
P- 205 n. 4. 

3 The Abbé Breuil suggested to me once in conversation that concentric circles with 
a prolonged radius may be highly stylised human figures, such as are met with in the 
neolithic and aeneolithic art of Spain (M. C. Burkitt Prehistory Cambridge 1921 pl. 38). 


4 


and the trident of Poseidon 793 


they occur, there is a tendency to explain them as the imprint of 
this, that, or the other superhuman power. P. Sébillot' has collected 
many cases of such popular interpretations. For example, at 
Pont-d’Aisy a ‘cup-marked’ stone is known as ‘the Fairy’s Kettle’ 
or ‘the Kettle of Giant Galaffre?’; and at Faux-la-~-Montagne the 
impress of the Devil’s spoon and fork is yet visible on a dolmen 
where he dined*. Similarly the Greeks regarded these mysterious 
marks beneath the Erechtheion as the traces left by the trident of 
Poseidon, when he struck the Akropolis-rock and thereby created 
his ‘sea‘,’ 

But Poseidon was not the first occupant of the Erechtheion. 
Before him, as H. Usener® showed, came Erechtheus, the true lord 
and owner of the building. And who was Erechtheus? Lykophron 
in one passage probably®, in another certainly’, uses Erechthets as 
a synonym of Zeus. More than that, a learned schélion on the 
second passage states quite definitely that both at Athens and in 
Arkadia Zeus was called Evechtheis*. There is therefore much to 
be said for E. Petersen’s contention® that Erechthers, the ‘Cleaver™, ” 
was in fact a lightning-god like Zeus Katazbdtes", who during the 
fifth century B.C., if not earlier, was identified with Poseidon”. Two 


1 P. Sébillot Ze Folklore de France Paris 1g04 i. 395 ff. 

2 Ld. ib. i. 396. 

3 Td. tb. i. 398. 

+ A good parallel is furnished by the sacred rock that juts up in the centre of the 
Kubbet es-Sachra in Jerusalem. Certain round holes, apparently ‘cup-marks,’ on its 
west side are said to be the finger-prints of the angel Gabriel: others of a like sort in the 
south-west corner are explained as the foot-prints of the prophet Muhammed (R. Kittel 
Studien zur hebriiischen Archdologie und Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1908 p. 19). 

5 H. Usener Gotternamen Bonn 1896 p. 139 ff. 

8 Lyk. AZ. 156 ff. dv (sc. Pelops) 5% dis iBjcavra, cal Bapdy wbBov | puvydvTa Naupés- 
ovtos (sc. Poseidon) apraxrnpiov, | €ore.N "EpexOeds (sc. Zeus) els Aerpwatous ytas | x.T.d. 
with scholl. ad /oc. and C. von Holzinger’s note. 

7 Lyk. Ad. 431 Tov 8 ad, réraprov éyyévwr “Epexdéws (sc. Idomeneus, son of Deukalion, 
son of Minos, son of Zeus). 

8 Schol. Lyk. AZ. 431 "Epexdevds yap xadetrat 6 Zebs ev ’AOjvas kal év "Apkadig 7 dia 
TO dpéEae tHhv 'Péav rH Kpdvw NOov avri Acés, 7) mapa TO épéxOw TO KwWO- bv’ avrai, yap ol 
ge.cuol. The association of Athens with Arkadia is noteworthy and points perhaps to a 
joint Pelasgian usage. 

9 E. Petersen Die Burgtempel der Athenaia Berlin 1907 pp. 61—93. 

10 H. Usener of. cz#. p. 140 f. took the name to mean the ‘ Breaker’ in the agri- 
cultural sense of a clod-‘ breaker’: E. Petersen of. cit. understands it as the ‘ Render’ or 
‘Cleaver’ used of a lightning-god. In either case "Epex@evs is to be connected with 
€péx@w (Prellwitz Ziym. Worterb..d. Gr. Spr.* p. 155, Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue 
Gr. p. 277 f.). 

1 Supra p. 13 fi. 

12 See the inscriptions and texts cited by O. Jahn—A. Michaelis Avx Athenarum 
Bonnae r1gor p. 66 f. on Paus. 1. 26. 5. Erechtheus is already replaced by Poseidon in 
Hes. frag. 40 Flach, ror Rzach* ap. Eustath. iz Z/. p. 13, 44 £. qv 5é, pact, Bovrns vids 


704 The thunderbolt of Zeus 


versions were current concerning Erechtheus’ death. According to 
Euripides, he was slain by a blow of Poseidon’s trident and hidden 
in a chasm of earth’. According to Hyginus, he was slain by a 
thunderbolt from Zeus at the request of Poseidon*. Hence Petersen 
concludes that Erechtheus was a figure essentially resembling 
‘Zeus-Amphiaraos, Zeus-Asklepios, Zeus-Trophonios*’; that the 
hypaethral opening in the Erechtheion floor was the chasm where 
he, the lightning-god, had entered the earth; and that this same 
chasm, on the advent of Poseidon, had been re-interpreted as his 
trident-mark*. The whole story thus becomes coherent, and I for 
one accept Petersen’s reading of it—though I should stipulate that 





the epic Erechtheus was not a lightning-god, but a human king 
regarded as the lightning-god incarnate. 

Now the transition from the cult of Erechtheus to that of 
Poseidon is much facilitated, if we may suppose that the latter, like 
the former, wielded the lightning,—that his trident, in short, was 
originally the thunderbolt. 

So far, however, we have not met with any direct proof that 
Poseidon was a lightning-god. Once, and once only, in the extant 
remains of Greek art is he represented brandishing a bolt as though 
he were Zeus. A remarkable tetradrachm of Messana, formerly in 
the Hirsch collection and now at Brussels (fig. 757)°, has for its 
obverse design a god wearing a ch/amys over his upper arms in the 


TlocevdGvos, ws “Holodos év Katadtéyw=Favorin. ecl. in W. Dindorf Grammatict GCrect 
Lipsiae 1823 i. 361, 8 f. The oldest monumental evidence is that of a black-figured 
amphora by Amasis (c. 550—530 B.C.), now at Paris (De Ridder Cat. Vases de la Bibl. 
Nat. i. 129 ff. no. 222. Lenormant—de Witte Z/. mon. cér. i. 254 ff. pl. 78), which 
shows Athena with her lance and Poseidon with his trident standing opposite to each 
other in peaceful attitudes. E. Petersen of. cz¢. p. 65 observes that the scene presupposes 
reconciliation after the contest at the Erechtheion—‘ also Poseidon statt des Erechtheus.’ 

1 Eur. Jom 281 f. 2 Hyg. fab. 46. Supra p. 24. 

3 E. Petersen of. czt. p. 73 ff. 4 Td. ib. p. 68 ff. 

> Sir A. J. Evans in the Mam. Chron. Third Series 1896 xvi. 109 ff. pl. 8, 7 (=my 
fig. 757), G. F. Hill Coins of Ancient Sicily London 1903 p. 70 pl. 4, 8, 2a. Historical 
Greek Coins London 1906 p. 32 n. 1 (‘ Poseidon’), G. Macdonald Cozz 7ypes Glasgow 
1905 p. 143 f. pl. 5, 12 (‘ Poseidon’), Head Hest. num.” p. 154 fig. 82 (‘ Poseidon (?)’). 


and the trident of Poseidon 7O5 


manner of Poseidon and striding forward to a decorated altar with 
uplifted thunderbolt in the attitude of Zeus. Since the great god of 
Messana was Poseidon, not Zeus, we should interpret this unique 
type as Poseidon fulminant—an interpretation confirmed by the 
dolphin and scallop-shell of the reverse side. On grounds of style 
and motif the coin has been assigned to the middle of the fifth 
century B.c. Sir A. J. Evans? justly inferred from its legend Dank- 
faton that, about the year 450, the old Zanclaean elements in the 





Fig. 760. Fig, 761. 
population of Messana must have succeeded in regaining for a while 
their predominance: naturally they restored the earliest name of 
the town and, along with it, their former coin-types of the dolphin 
and the scallop. Now Zankle was an ancient foundation of the 
Sikels*. Here then, if anywhere, we should look to find Poseidon in 
his earliest form. And here we do find him with a thunderbolt, not 
a trident, in his hand—a god who bears a significant resemblance 
to Zeus’. 


1 Sir A. J. Evans Joc. cit. 

2 Thouk. 6. 4, Steph. Byz. s. v. Zdyx«Xn. 

3 Coins of Poseidonia (e.g. Garrucci Mon. Jt. ant. p. 178 pl. 121, 29, 30, 3 =my figs. 
762—764) show Poseidon brandishing his trident and Zeus brandishing his thunderbolt in 
precisely the same attitude. The resemblance is suggestive, though not of course conclusive. 





Fig. 764. 


Garrucci says of the last piece : ‘ Nettuno qual Giove fulminante a d. dinanzi un delfino, 
asin. POZEIAA,’ vz. id. p. 176f. pl. 120, 8 wrongly infers from an early drachm 


796 The thunderbolt of Zeus 


Different in character from this early representation are the 
attempts made occasionally throughout the classical period to equip 





Fig. 765. 


Poseidon with the attributes of Zeus, attempts possibly prompted 
by the lingering belief that the former was fundamentally akin to 


inscribed [TOM OSA that Poseidon is actually dubbed Ad(s) (dyadua). Why not 
read Ilocod(av)? Cp. Babelon Monn. gr. rom. ii. 1. 1431 f. no. 2132 with n. 3, and 
F. Bechtel Die griechischen Dialehte Berlin 1921 i. 350 f. 


and the trident of Poseidon 797 


the latter. Thus silver coins of Troizen, struck c. 400— 322 B.C., 
duplicate the trident-head so that it looks much like a thunderbolt 


tf 


Vy 

9a 
4 
h 
4, 


=< 





Fig. 766. 


(fig. 758)’. The duplication was, however, presumably intended zx 
primis to show that the coins were diobols. Certain rare coppers of 


' Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Peloponnesus p. 166 pl. 30, 21 (=my fig. 758) and 22, Head 
flist. num." p. 443: 


798 The thunderbolt of Zeus 


Byzantion, issued c. 221 B.C., figure Poseidon erect with a trident in 
his left hand, but Nike crowning the magistrate’s name in his right 
(fig. 759). A chalcedony scarab of late Etruscan style, formerly in 
the Dehn collection (fig. 760)*, portrays an unbearded god, with a 
himdtion over his left arm, in the act of stepping into a chariot. 
He grasps a thunderbolt in his right hand, and a trident in his left, 
while at his feet is a small sea-monster. The fusion of Poseidon 
with Zeus is complete. Similarly on a brown paste at Berlin 
(fig. 761)* we see the equivocal Zeus-Poseidon holding the thunder- 
bolt in his right hand, the trident in his left, with an eagle perched 
before him. Finally, two deities painted in the Augustan house 
near the Vz//a Farnesina are—if we may trust Mau’s publication 
(figs. .765, 766)4—perhaps to be described as Poseidon with the 
thunderbolt of Zeus (?) and Zeus with the trident of Poseidon (??)°. 


(6) The thunderbolt of Zeus and the fork of Hades. 


Zeus had a thunderbolt, and Poseidon a trident. It is some- 
times contended that Hades, as his corresponding weapon, had a 
fork or two-pronged spear. But neither the existence nor the 
significance of this attribute is free from serious doubt, and some 
of our more cautious mythologists are inclined to dismiss it as 
altogether fictitious’, The evidence therefore must be scrutinized 
with care. 

In the first place it may be conceded that weapons of the sort 
were not unknown in the Mediterranean area. Apart from mere 


1 Rasche Lex. Mum. i. 1638, Hunter Cat. Coins i. 394 pl. 26, 16, Ant. Miinz. Berlin 
Taurische Chersonesus, etc. i. 148 no. 57. Fig. 759 is from a specimen in my collection : 
BYLTANT[IQN] E(t] AZQOTI[IOY] with two countermarks (ov. [ and 
helmet, 7ev. ear of corn). 

2 G, Winckelmann Monumenti antichi inediti Roma 1821 i. 3 no. 3, T. Panofka ‘ Uber 
verlegene Mythen’ in the 4éh. d. berl. Akad. 1839 Phil.-hist. Classe p. 35 pl. 1, 5, F. 
Creuzer Symbolik und Mythologie* Leipzig and Darmstadt 1841 ili. 1. 204 pl. 6, 27, 
Welcker Gr. Gétterl. i. 162 n. 5, L. Stephani in the Compte-rendu St. Pét. 1866 p. 93 
n. 6, Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. Zeus p. 259 Gemmentaf. 3, 7, Furtwangler Azz. 
Gemmen i pl. 18, 6 (=my fig. 760), ii. 87, Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 361 fig. 1 (‘the 
threefold Pelasgian god’—a view which I here recant), Farnell Czdts of Gk. States iv. 60 
Dis 2570 

A similar scarab of brown sard cited by most authorities (Panofka doc. cit. p. 33 ff. 
pl. 1, 4, Creuzer of. czt. ili. 1. 204 pl. 6, 26, Overbeck of. czt. p. 259 Gemmentaf. 3, 8, 
Farnell of. cit. iv. 60 pl. 2, 4) is a modern forgery (Furtwangler Geschnztt. Steine Berlin 
P- 332 no. 9330, zd. Ant. Gemmen ii. 87). 

3 Furtwangler Geschnitt. Steine Berlin p. 130 no. 3447 pl. 28 (=my fig. 761: scale 2). 

4 A. Mau in the Ann. d. Inst. 1884 lvi. 320, Mon. d. Znst. xii pl. 7, 3 and 5 (=my 
figs. 765 and 766). The paintings are now in the Terme Museum at Rome. 

> A. Mau Joc. cit.: ‘Nelle due figure di Nettuno (3) e di Giove (5) non é chiaro né 
Voggetto che Nettuno regge nella sin., né cid che sta in cima allo scettro di Giove.’ 

6 £.g. Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. p. 1182 n. 2. 


and the fork of Hades 799 


forks of bone! or bronze?, and from forked spear-butts of bronze’, a 
double-pointed spear-head of copper was found in the sepulchral 
deposit of Hagios Onuphrios near Phaistos*, and a double-pointed 
lance is held by a Lycaonian warrior carved on the stée of Ikonion®. 
Again, a weapon of this type figures in Greek mythology. 
Lesches the Lesbian, who wrote the Lzttle [iad about the middle 
of s. vii B.C., described the spear of Achilles as of similar make: 
The ring of gold 
Flashed lightning round, and o’er it the forked blade®. 
Aischylos in his Verezds said of the same weapon : 
The shaft, the shaft with its double tongue, will come’. 
And Sophokles mentioned it in his Lovers of Achilles : 


Or the two-mouthed striker, the spear ; 
For it rent him—the twofold pang 
Of the spear that Achilles bore’. 


The hero had been taught to use this engine by Peleus, and 
Peleus in turn by Cheiron®,—a pedigree which points to Thessaly 
as its home. It is then not inappropriate that Kastor, depicted on 
a black-figured amphora from Corneto as advancing side by side 
with Peleus against the Calydonian boar, plunges a two-pronged 
spear into the monster’s head”. 


1 R. Munro Zhe Lake Dwellings of Europe London, Paris, and Melbourne 1890 p. 157 
fig. 39,12, L. Savignoni in the Mon. d. Linc. 1903 xiil. 93 f. fig. 6 (from a pile-dwelling 
on the Mondsee, Austria). 

2 C, A. de Bode in Archaeologia 1844 xxx. 250 pl. 16, 11, L. Savignoni oc. cit. p. 93 
fig. 5 (from a ¢mudus near Asterabad at the S.E. corner of the Caspian Sea). 

3 Sir W. M. Flinders Petrie in the Yourn. Hell. Stud. 1890 xi. 273 (‘spear-heads...of the 
forked form’ from graves at Nebesheh dated c. 650—s500 B.c. and regarded as those of 
the Carian mercenaries of Psammetichos), zd@. Tools and Weapons London 1917. p. 33 
pl. 39 f., 182 ff. (‘forked butts’). An example in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge, 
described on the label by Sir W. M. Flinders Petrie as a two-pronged spear, is almost 
certainly a spear-butt. 

4 Sir A. J. Evans Cretan Pictographs and prae- Phoenician Script London—New York 
1895 p- 135 f. fig. 139, L. Savignoni /oc. cit. p. 99 fig. 7 (‘pit accurato’), Sir A. J, Evans 
The Palace of Minos London 1921 1. too f. fig. 72. 

° C.F. M. Texier Description de ? Asie Mineure Paris 1849 ii. 148 f. pl. 103, Perrot— 
Chipiez Hist. de 7 Art iv. 741 f. fig. 359, Sir W. M. Ramsay Zhe Cities of St. Paul 
London 1907 p. 333 f. fig. 43. 

The 6:Boria of the Cimbri (Plout. v. Mar. 25) probably involved a pair of lances 
(cp. Aristoph. frag. 401 ap. Poll. 7. 157, Herodian. 2. 13. 4). 

§ [has parva frag. 5 Kinkel ap. schol. Pind. Mem. 6. 85 and schol. //. 16. 142 aul 
dé mopxns | xptceos dorpdmre Kal ér’ adr dixpoos apdrs. 

7 Aisch. Nereddes frag. 152 Nauck? xduaxos elot kdwaxos yAdoonua derddovov. 

8 Soph. Achilleos erastai frag. 156 Nauck?, 152 Jebb 7 dopds diuxdaromov whGKTpov® | 
Oirruxo yap ddvvar wuv Hpikov | ’AxAdAnlov Séparos. On the text see A. C. Pearson’s note. 

9 Schol. //. 16. 142. 

10 EF. Petersen in the Anz. d. Just. 1884 lvi. 284 f. (Sun bidente’), Mon. d. Just. xii 
pl. 10, Reinach Rép. Vases i. 230, 3 (‘une fourche’). 


800 The thunderbolt of Zeus 


But neither Achilles nor Kastor spells Hades, and the only 
evidence adduced for the forked spear as an attribute of this deity 
will not bear inspection. A kyix signed by the potter Brygos, 
found at Vulci, and now preserved in the Stadel’sches Kunst- 
institut at Frankfurt, has for its central design a bearded male 


K 


\ 
, 
M4 


— 
SS 








figure with a two-pronged spear or fork pursuing a woman (fig. 767). 
F. G. Welcker took the pair to be Plouton and Persephone?. But 
in point of fact they are Poseidon and Aithra (or Amymone). 
For later and more careful investigation® has shown that essential 
parts of the design are due to some modern restorer, who has zz¢er 


1 E. Gerhard Zrinkschalen und Gefisse des Konighchen Museums zu Berlin und 
anderer Sammlungen Berlin 1848 i. 20 ff. pl. A—B (=my fig. 767). Bibliography in 
Hoppin Read-fig. Vases i. 108 f. no. 3% fig. 

* F. T. Welcker ‘Le nozze di Plutone e Proserpina’ in the Amn. d. Znst. 1850 xxii. 
1rog—r18 pl. G, zd. Alt. Denkm. iii. 93—104 (‘Der Ehebund der Persephone mit dem 
Pluton’) pl. 12, Reinach Rés. Vases i. 286, 1. : 

3 Wien. Vorlegebl. viii pl. 2 (=my fig. 768), Hoppin of. cé¢. i. 109 fig. 


and the fork of Hades SOI 


alia supplied Aithra’s face and painted out half of Poseidon’s 
trident-head! In view of this shameless tampering we cannot put 
much trust in an early publication of a bronze coin struck by 
Domitian at Nysa in Lydia, which purports to show Plouton, fork 
in hand, carrying off Persephone upon a four-horse chariot (fig. 769)}- 





Fig. 768. 


The type is common enough on the coinage of Lydia?; but 
Plouton, where his attribute can be made out, regularly carries a 
sceptre, not a fork. I do not doubt that the specimen figured below 
has been tooled by some unscrupulous hand. 

On Greek soil, then, there is no relevant evidence. It remains 
to enquire whether Italy is equally barren. 

E. Braun in 1837 drew attention to the fact that Rafael and 


1 Morell. Zhes. Num. Imp. Rom. ii. 485 (‘Neptunus...rapiens Nympham Amy- 
monem’) pl. 21, 28. 

2 See Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lydia p. 393 Index, F. Imhoof-Blumer Lydische Stadt- 
miuinzen Genf—Leipzig 1897 p. 209 Index. 


Galle 51 


802 The thunderbolt of Zeus 


other painters represented Pluto with a two-pronged: fork in his 
hand, and conjectured that this detail must have been taken from 
ancient monuments since lost!. F. G. Welcker 
in 1851°, and again in 1857%, confirmed his 
opinion, citing definite works of renaissance 
art in which Pluto is so portrayed‘. These 
scholars and others following in their steps 
were also able to name a certain number of 
would-be classical monuments in support of 
their contention. But a more rigorous criti- 
cism would have curtailed or cancelled the list. 
Thus a statuette of Italian marble in the Pio- 
Clementino collection shows Pluto enthroned : he wears on his head 
a modius decorated with oak-leaves and acorns; he has at his right 
side a three-headed Cerberus, and in his left hand a two-pronged fork. 
But, as Visconti indicates, the fork together with the hand that holds 
it is a modern restoration®. Again, a desk-shaped terra cotta at 
Woburn Abbey has its slanting surface adorned with three bearded 
heads wearing the modius: they are characterised as Poseidon, Zeus, 
and Plouton by the attributes added below on the front—a trident, 
a thunderbolt, and a two-pronged fork. Beneath the thunderbolt 
is an inscription in raised letters : 





Dits propi- To the propitious gods 
M- Herennii of Marcus Herennius. 
vivatis Long life to you®. 


Replicas of this curious monument have been reported from 
Vienna’, Paris’, and Wiirzburg*®. Unfortunately their genuineness is 
far from established”. Finally, a two-pronged fork figures among 
the amulets on a Tarentine cake-mould in the British Museum”. 
O. Jahn, who published this mould in 1855, thought that the fork 
might be a symbol of Hades, but regarded it as doubtful”. 


1 E. Braun in the Avm. d. Znst. 1837 ix. 274. 

2? Welcker A/t. Denkm. iii. 95. 3 Welcker Gr. Gotterl. i. 630 f. n. 28. 

4 See also J. Addison Classic Myths in Art London 1905 pp. 25, 29. 

° Visconti Mus. Pie-Clém. ii. 17 ff. pl. 1, Reinach Rép. Stat. i. 440N0. I. 

6 A. Michaelis Ancient Marbles in Great Britain trans. C. A. M. Fennell Cam- 
bridge 1882 p. 745 Woburn Abbey no. 182. 

7 Welcker Gr. Gétterl. i. 630 n. 28. 

8 F. Wieseler in the Arch. Zeit. 1859 xvii Anz. p. 115* f. Pourtalés—Gorgier collec- 
tion no. 826. 9 A. Michaelis of. cét. p. 745. 

10 Michaelis described the Woburn Abbey specimen as ‘new’: Dubois, Wieseler, and 
Gerhard doubted the antiquity of those from Paris and Wiirzburg. 

1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Terracottas p. 446 no. E 129, supra p. 131 n. 1 no. (1). 

2 Q. Jahn in the Ber. sachs. Gesellsch. d. Wiss. Phil.-hist. Classe 1854 p. 52 n. 93 


pl. 5, 3- 


and the fork of Hades 803 


The failure of the proofs so far considered throws into relief the 
one valid piece of evidence that has been adduced. At Urbs 
Salvia (Urbisaglia) in Picenum there came to light in 1853 portions 
of an ancient Roman aqueduct. Near it the year after were found 
four ¢egulae mammatae, which seem to have been used as covering 
tiles for the channel. When placed in position they had been 
painted, apparently by some encaustic process, with a series of 
figures representing, from left to right, Iuno (?), Iupiter, Minerva, 
and Victoria. To judge from the style, these deities were referable 
to early imperial times. And there can be little doubt that they 
were intended to protect the water of the aqueduct against all con- 
tamination. We are concerned only with the central figure of the 
Capitoline triad (fig. 770). Lupiter, with a violet mantle draped over 
his ochre body, confronts us fairly bristling with weapons: he has 
a thunderbolt and a trident in his left hand, and a two-pronged 
fork in his right, while a dolphin appears at his side. Clearly he is 
conceived as sky-god (thunderbolt), sea-god (trident, dolphin), 
and earth-god (fork) rolled into one—a deity competent to 
keep all evil at a distance. He is accompanied by the inscription 
IOVE-}IVTOR.~, ‘to lupiter she Telper, 

J. Schmidt, to whom we are indebted for the first publication of 
this interesting tile, thinks? that Iupiter as earth-god got his fork 
from the Etruscan Charon‘. But O. Waser in his monograph on 
Charon recognises no such attribute’. We cannot even admit 
the contention of J. A. Ambrosch that at least one Etruscan 
sepulchral relief equips a demon of the Underworld with a pitch- 
fork®. The ecclesiastical paintings of the middle ages did so’. But 
the alleged Etruscan example is illusory: the supposed fork is 
merely a flaming torch*. Again, we shall hardly venture to connect 

1 G. Schmidt ‘Tre mattoni dipinti di Urbisaglia’ in the Azz. d. Just. £880 lii. 59— 
73, Mon. d. Inst. xi pl. 17, 1—3, Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 374 fig. 6. Length 0.47™; 
breadth 0°31™; thickness 0’05™ (nos. 1, 2), 0°045™ (no. 3). 

2 Th. Mommsen in Corp. izscr. Lat. ix no. 5531, followed by Dessau Zuscr. Lat. sel. 
no. 3031, reads Jove Jutori. But Schmidt Joc. cit. p. 63 n. 2 is positive that he has tran- 
scribed the lettering with absolute accuracy. In any case /ove /utor(?) must be taken as 
a dative case: cp. Corp. inscr. Lat. xi no. 4766, 11 f.=Dessau of. cit. no. 4911, 11 f. 
(near Spoletium) Jove bovid | piaclum datod, tb. 15 f. Lovet bovid piaclum | datod. 

3 Schmidt Joc. cit. p. 67 f. 

4 E. Braun in the Anz. d. Just. 1837 ix. 256, 257, 274, G. Dennis Zhe Cities and 
Cemeterzes of Etruria® London 1883 ii. 192. 

5 OQ. Waser Charon, Charun, Charos Berlin 1898 p. 80 ff. 

6 J. A. Ambrosch De Charonte Etrusco Vratislaviae 1837 pp- 15, 18. 

7 Supra p- 136 n. 4 pl. viil. 

8 F. Inghirami Monumenti etruschi o di etrusco nome Poligrafia Fiesolana 1821 i. 
284 ff. pl. 32, O. Waser of. cit. p. 142 no. 32, G. Dennis of. czt.3 ii. 183 f. Similarly the 
bearded personage, who wears a large hat inscribed |C TO and carries ‘ un bastone bifor- 


[i 


804 The thunderbolt of Zeus 





cuto in cima,’ on a red-figured fvatér noted by G. Henzen in‘the Bel. d. Just. 1856 
p- 41 f. is not Plouton with a forked sceptre (¢@. 26. p. 42 n. 1, F. Lenormant in Darem- 
berg—Saglio Dict. Ant. i. 632), but Hermes with his caduceus, perhaps wrongly inscribed 
[HPA]}ICTO[C]. 


and the fork of Hades 805 


Iupiter with the Getic Gebeleizis, whose name conceivably meant 
‘the god with a Fork" Still less shall we maintain that he took 
over this implement from the fork-bearing figures of early Sardinia’. 
For most of these little bronzes are demonstrable forgeries’. 
Brushing aside such inadequate hypotheses, we approach the 
problem along other lines. The Etruscans believed in lightnings 
that sprang from the ground (/ulgura inferna’, fulmina infera or 
terrena®), wielded presumably by some chthonian deity®. And 
C. O. Thulin, the chief modern exponent of their lightning-lore, 
argues that the Etruscan word for ‘lightning’ was rendered by the 
Latin dzdens'. Antecedently that is probable enough. ‘Forked 
lightning, as we call it, might well be represented by a lightning- 
fork. Moreover, the Romans, who in all matters of divination 
relied upon the wisdom of Etruria, habitually spoke of a place 
struck by lightning as dzdental*. Hence H. Usener infers that 
they must have symbolised the flash as a dzdens or ‘two-pronged 


1 Supra p. 227 n. 4. For a better reading and rendering of the Getic name see 
infra p. 822 f. 

2 Le Cte A. de La Marmora Voyage en Sardaigne® Paris 1839—1857 Atlas pl. 17 ff., 
E. Gerhard Uber die Kunst der Phonicier Berlin 1848 p. 38 f. pl. 5, 1 and 7. 

3 Perrot—Chipiez Hist. de 1’ Art iv. 65. 

4 A. Caecina ap. Sen. rat. guaestt. 2. 49.3. Supra p. 641 n. 3. 

5 A. Caecina ap. Plin. zat. hist. 2. 138. 

6 C. O. Thulin Dee etruskische Disciplin i Die Blitzlehre Goteborg 1906 p. 47. 

It may at first sight seem rash to suppose that a chthonian god was ever armed with 
atmospheric terrors. But some at least of the Greek philosophers—in particular, 
Herakleitos, Aristotle, and Poseidonios—held that lightning was primarily due to telluric 
exhalations (O. Gilbert Die meteorologischen Theorten des griechischen Altertums Leipzig 
1907 pp- 627 ff., 629 f., 634 ff.), thereby anticipating, not only the belief in electrical 
interaction between earth and sky, but also the part played by evaporation in modern 
theories of lightning (7d. 2b. p. 637). Besides, these philosophers, after their manner, 
were merely elaborating popular opinion. Greek literature makes frequent mention of 
chthonian thunder (Aisch. P.v. 993 f., Bdonoi frag. 57, 10 f. Nauck?, Soph. O.C. 1606, 
Eur. Z/. 748, Hipp. 1201, Aristoph. av. 1747, 1752. J. P. Mahaffy, as quoted by 
J. E. Harry on Eur. Ai. 1201, states that ‘ Bpdvrecoy is used by the modern Boeotians 
of a mountain north of Thebes which constantly makes a rumbling sound.’ See also zz/ra 
§ 4 (d) Zeus Bpovr@v), and Greek art on occasion treats lightning as the attribute of such 
chthonian powers as the Kyklopes (sufra i. 318 f. figs. 252, 253) or Typhon (The three- 
bodied monster, from the right half of an archaic pedimental group, found on the 
Akropolis at Athens, holds in two of his left hands an attribute which has been 
variously interpreted: see G. Dickins in the Catalogue of the Acropolis Museum Cam- 
bridge 1912 i. 78 ff. no. 35. The most probable view is still that of Collignon Zest. de la 
Sculpt. gr. i. 208 ‘ une sorte de foudre.’ Good illustrations in Perrot—Chipiez Hist. de 
1’ Art viii pl. 3, T. Wiegand Die archaische Poros-Architektur der Akropolis su Athen 
Cassel and Leipzig 1904 pl. 4, R. Heberdey Altattische Porosskulptur Wien 1919 pl. 3, 
2 and pl. 4). 

7 C. O. Thulin of. cit. p. 96 f., quoting A. Caecina af. Sen. nat. guaestt. 2. 49. 1 
dentanea (sc. fulgura), quae speciem periculi sine periculo adferunt. 

8 G, Wissowa in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 429 ff. 


806 Zeus Keraunobélos, Keratnios ; 


fork!.’ True, several of the ancient grammarians expressly derive the 
term dzdental from the fact that sheep (dzdentes) were sacrificed on 
the spot®?. But that explanation is rejected by Pomponius Porphyrio* 
(s. iii A.D.); and the learned scholiast on Persius couples it with 
another, namely, that the thunderbolt itself had two teeth‘. Pro- 
bably sheep with their two prominent fore-teeth® were sacrificed at 
the dzdental just because their peculiarity connected them in the 
sacerdotal mind with the two-toothed lightning. 

In short, it would appear that Iupiter on the Picentine tile has 
borrowed his ézdens from an Etruscan god of the Underworld—the 
Etruscan bident being the exact counterpart of the Greek trident® 
in its original character of lightning-fork. If we may assume, as we 
are almost certainly entitled to do, that the Etruscans themselves 
hailed from Lydia, it becomes highly probable that the bident of 
Italy and the trident of Greece were respectively descended from 
the bipartite and tripartite forms of Mesopotamian lightning’. 


(e) Zeus Keraunobdlos, Keratnios ; Astrapaios, Astrapton. 


As lord of the lightning Zeus was saluted by the poets with a 
variety of sounding epithets, which need not here detain us’. 


1 H. Usener in the Rhein. Mus. 1905 1x. 22 (=td. Kleine Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 
1913 iv. 490). 

A Greek parallel perhaps underlies Aristoph. av. 1239 f. drws wh cov yévos mapy- 
wdeOpov | Aros paxé\\n wav avactpéyy Alyn with schol. ad loc. roirs gpyot mapa To 
Dopdkrevov * xpvon waxé\y Lgvos éEavacrpagpy,” where Fritzsche’s ingenious cj. év Xpvoy 
is accepted by A. Nauck (Soph. frag. 659) and A. C. Pearson (Soph. frag. 727 Jebb). 
Retaining the text with W. Dindorf (Soph. /rvag. 767), we may adopt the suggestion of 
F. Ellendt Lexicon Sophocleum Regimontii Prussorum 1835 ii. 48 ‘/udmen intellexit 
coruscum cum ligonis dentibus comparatum.’ Mr A. D. Nock suggests to me (Dec. 15, 
1921) that Aristophanes was thinking rather of Aisch. Ag. 525 f. Tpolay katackayparra 
To Sucnpdpou | Acds waxéAdy, TH KaTelpyacrat édov, or possibly of both the Aeschylean 
and the Sophoclean passages. As to the shape of a uaxeAXa opinion varied: Apollon. 
lex. Hom. p. 109, 33 makedday dikeNav, Kax@s* eore yap TO wAaTY cKagetov, Hesych. 
5.u. pakéddAn* SikeMa. mraTd cxadiov..., Phot. dex. s.v. uaxeda* OixeAda, Souid. s.v. 
mdkeda* Sixedda, schol. Arat. phaen. 7 wdkeNa SE 7 wovdfev KéNovTa yovy Téuvouca, 
dixeAra 6€ 7H Six 60ev = Eustath. zz //. p. 1235, 56 f. 

2 Paul. ex Fest. p. 33, 10 f. Miiller, p. 30, 17 ff. Lindsay, P. Nigidius Figulus 
de extis frag. 39% Funaioli af. Non. Marc. p. 75, 23 f. Lindsay, Fronto de azff. vocab. 
Pp» 523, 24 f. Keil. 3 Porphyr. 2 Hor. art. poet. 471, cp. Acron 7d. 

4 Schol. Pers. saz. 2.27. > F. Olck in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 427. 

6 Bident and trident are sometimes exchanged. Sen. H. /. 564 ff. makes Hades attack 
Herakles with a trident (¢e/um tergemina cuspide praeferens). En revanche the late schol. 
Augustan. zz Eur. Phoen. 188 arms Poseidon with a bident (rpiawa éore 7d ddpu < ob 
(ins. L. C. Valckenaer) > 7d & cidnpov 6pOdv, 7d 5é Erepov arpeBNév). 

7 Supra p. 764 ff. 

8 Gruppe Gr. Adjyth. Rel. p. 1111 n. 3 has collected examples of the following: 
apylKepauvos, Kepavvetos, KepauvoBpbyTns, TepmiKépavvos; aoTEpoT?TYS, aoTpaTLosS, oTEpoTN- 
yepéra, powtkooTeporas. 


Astrapaios, Astrapton 807 


Of greater moment are the titles of similar meaning sanctioned 
by actual cult ; for these afford proof that the zoistic conception of 
Zeus as the downward-flashing bolt passed into the anthropomorphic 
conception of him as hurler of the same. Thus Mantineia in Greek 
times worshipped Zeus Keraundés, ‘the Thunderbolt!’ But Tegea 
in Roman times worshipped Zeus Keraunoddlos, ‘the Hurler of the 
Thunderbolt?’ 

As the somewhat vaguer® god ‘of the Thunderbolt’ ( Kerazinzos) 
Zeus was recognised in literature* and had numerous cults from 
Palmyra in the east to Rome in the west’. 


1 Supra p. 12F. 

2 Inscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. ii no. 37 [olde vixjoavres év Teyég] | ev dy(&)ou Tots 
*Oduuriaxots | T@ Meylorw Kal KepavyoBddrw Act | dvare(r)Aewévors | Exoutoavto Tovs aote- 
gdv(o)us, which together with no. 36=C. T. Newton in Zhe Collection of Ancient Greek 
Inscriptions in the British Museum Oxford 1883 il. 11 ff. no. 156=F. Bechtel in Collitz— 
Bechtel Gr. Déal.-Znschr. 1. 351 ff. no. 1231=Michel Recuezl @lnscr. gr. no. 888. 
Nilsson Gr. Feste p. 4 f. would identify the Tegeate Zeus KepavvoBddos with Zeus KNdpros 
(txfra Append. B Arkadia). Cp. Loukian. phzlopatr. 4 6 Bpovromo.ds Kal KepavyoBddos 
cov ZLevs. 

3 (1) A tomb-inscription from Kition in Kypros associates Kepavvios with Kepavvia 
(Lebas—Waddington Aste Mineure ili no. 2739 Explic. p. 635 KlexoNwmévou rixou Tod 
Kepauviov. dv ris adrhy ayy, Kle]xLo]|Awuévns rixor: dv ti[s] Bady Kédmpia, Kexo\wuevns 
Tuxo. THs Kepavvias). O. Hofer in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1116 takes Kepatvios to be 
Zeus, Kepavvia an unkngwn goddess. W. Drexler 2d. ii. 1117 detects ReSef Eles and 
Anat. H. Usener in the Rhein. Mus. 1905 1x. 14 (=2d. Kleine Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 
1913 iv. 482) recognises ‘ den Sondergott...mit dem weiblichen Seitenstiick.’ 

(2) A fragmentary inscription at Z/-A/alikiye (E/-Malka) in Syria mentions Kepatvios 
only (Lebas—Waddington A sze M/inewre etc. iii no. 2195 Explic. p. 511 [....Jov | Madé/you 
ér|énoe|y Kep|avvti~ on a small s¢ée broken at the top). 

(3) A dedication built into the fortress-wall of Mytilene runs: Zwoiun Acevydpov (?) | 
Ged Kepavviw'TWicrw | etx avéOnxer (Jnscr. Gr. ns.iino. 126). Adler in Pauly—Wissowa 
Real-Enc. xi. 267 infers from the use of “Yyxoros that this was an oriental cult. 

4 Aristot. de mundo 7. 4012 17, Orph. 2. Zeus 15. g (cp. supra p. 12 n. 3), Scholl— 
Studemund avecd. i. 265 "Emidera Acds (52) xepavviov, 266 ’Emidera Acés (47) Seen 
274 Emidera Atds:...xepavvios, 281 Ewidera Tod Acés...cepatvvios. Cp. Anth. Pal. 7. 49. 
(Bianor) Zavt xepavvetw (sepra p. 9). 

> (1) Palmyra (Corp. inscr. Gr. ili no. 4501=Dittenberger Orient. Gr. tnscr. sel. 
no. 631 a dedication of Hadrianic date Act Meyiorw Kepav|ylw x.7..). 

(2) Damaskos (Corp. zuscr. Gr. iii no. 4520, 3 ff. ieped[s]| Acds Kepav|vlo[v] éaure | rd 
pvjjua inscription of a rock-cut tomb). 

(3) Seleukeia Pieria (zz/fra p. 809 n. 6f.). 

(4) Kition in Kypros (Corf. inser. Gr. ii no. 2641, 2 ff. Au Kepauyiwn——— |’ Agpodirne, 
moder, | Ohuwt, ouovota, | K.7.A. On a marble base of Roman date. See also supra n. 3 
no. (1)). 

(5) Phrygia (G. Cousin in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1884 vill. 503 publishes an astragalo- 
mantic inscription on a marble block at Ormelle ( Ze/ey), of which face iii, 7 reads [Acds 
K Jepavviov). 

(6) Lydia (Corp. inser. Gr. ii no. 3446 = Lebas—Waddington Aste Mineure iii no. 1674, 
3 ff. Ad Kepavviw a0d.|Bo(\)nPévrwv owludrwv dvo x.7.d., where K. Keil in Phzlologus 
1863 Suppl. ii. 609 ff. proposes dorpoBodnGévTwy in the sense of ‘ struck by lightning ’* and 
H. Usener in the Aieznv. Mus. 1905 |x. 15 n. t (=2d. Kleine Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 
1913 iv. 483 n. 44) would read doBodnPevrur, ‘scorched.’ In any case Keil Joc. cit. saw 


808 Zeus Keraunobélos, Kerainios ; 


rightly that this votive altar, at Ghiewldiz near Kula, was dedicated to Zeus Kepavyios by 
a master who had escaped when two of his slaves were struck: cp. Suet. Aug. 29. 

M. Clerc in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1886 x. 401 no. 4 Ads | Kepavviov | dévayis a stone at 
Thyateira bearing this inscription with a thunderbolt carved above it. The stone probably 
marks a spot struck by lightning, which, as being a power proceeding from Zeus, is here 
called his d’vayis. G. Radet 24. 1887 xi. 469f. no. 36 Ad Kepauviw | Teruddeos | irép 
Tov OpéWavros | evxnv on a small marble pillar at Yagwerdé near Thyateira. J. Keil— 
A. von Premerstein in the Denkschr. d. Akad. Wien 1911 ii Abh. p. 17 no. 24 
[Zw]xpdrns Ad Kepav|yi@ evx7jv on a broken block of bluish marble at Szémefajz near 
Thyateira, in lettering of s. ii A.D., edd. 7b. 1914 i Abh. p. 12 no. 11 &Y érous ry’, wn(vds) 
Top|riatov 6 d(mdvros). Ad GWM |'Acpiw “Aupilavds cadrovd|pos evxaporn|piov a at 
Topalar, below a relief representing an eagle (the appellative ’Aepfw is on an erasure of 
Ke|pavviw), p. 13 no. 13 [-—---— ] | [--Ac]i Kepavviw at Oraklar, two hours S. of Bortz). 

(7) Priene (F. Hiller von Gaertringen Z/uschriften von Priene Berlin 1906 no. 113, 80 ff. 
[r]od re unvos rod | ’Apremorvos rm d[wldexarne mapacryoas Ti clOicuevaly] yelver Oar Tox 
Ad | rt Kepavvlwr Ovotav perédwxev ev T&v iepdv roi[s] re modlras Kal mapol|kos Kat 
karolkois Kal évous Kai ‘Pwuators cal dovAous, rods dé Blo]uAevTds Kal Tas ovvapxilas Kal 
édelrvicev év TH [T]o Beod Toru after 84 B.C.). 

(8) Pergamon (M. Frankel Die Znschriften von Pergamon Berlin 1890 i. 134 no. 232 
Awd Kepa[v]yiw | --- on a marble base with oak-wreath and fillets, zd. ii. 243 no. 329 
Afi] | Kepavylw[c] | I. Lovdcos | AGpos on a small altar of white marble). 

(9) Nikopolis on the Danube, in Moesia Inferior (A. von Domaszewski in the Arch. -ep. 
Mitth. 1886 x. 242 no. 7, 2 ff. Ad Kepauviw | evxapicrod (sic) | 7 mods dvéorncer | x.7.X. 
on an altar of 233 A.D. at_/Jen7-Nikwp). 

(to) Thasos (E. L. Hicks in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1887 viii. 425 no. 29=S. Reinach 
Chroniques d@ Orient Paris 1891 p. 256=Znscr. Gr. ins. viii no. 362 Aws Kepavviou followed 
by a carved thunderbolt). 

(11) Kalymna (C. T. Newton in Zhe Collection of Ancient Greek Inscriptions in the 
British Museum Oxford 1883 ii. gg f. no. 321, 8ff. rov mavrwy | [kap]rGv z[dv d]inven7 
cwrhpa Alfa] | [Ke]patvioy cai rods Novrods Ge\[ovs] x.7.A. on a marble s¢ée found in the 
temple of Apollon; lettering crowded and late). 

(12) Melos (’E@.’ Apx. no. 3544 p. 1846 cited by K. Keil in Phz/ologus 1863 Suppl. ii. 
611 f. Népwve (AyadG réxy) VeBao[r]G | Mdpkos Avrwvios [I']\abxos | lepeds Acds Kepavvlov 
Kal OelGv odpaviwy danpérns meptorKodéunka Au Kal Beots ovpavtors | ldlars Samavats iepdy Kal 
ee LeBaorjov). 

(13) Elasson in Thessaly (Zzscr. Gr. sept. iii. 2 no. 1275, A. S. Arvanitopoullos in the 
"Ed. Apx. 1913 p- 162 fig. 16). 

(14) Argos (P. Roussel—J. Hatzfeld in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1909 xxxill. 510 no. 27 
a small round altar of marble inscribed in late lettering Avs | Kepav|véov). 

(15) Olympia (Paus. 5. 14. 7 év0a dé rs olkias Ta Oewédua éore THs Oivoudou, dvo évradba 
elct Bwol, Ards re ‘Biren eee 6 Olvéuaos édalvero a’tds olkodoujoacbar—, TH de 
Kepauviw Act torepov éroujncayro enol doxety Bwmudr, br’ és Tod Oivoudou Tiv olkiay Karéoxnwev 
6 Kepavvés). 

(16) Alban Mt (/zscr. Gr. Sic. Zt, no. 1118 Act Kepavviox on a rude altar found at the 
foot of the mountain). 

(17) Rome (P. Gauckler in the Comptes rendus de 1 Acad. des inscr. et belles-lettres 
1907 p. 148 ff. records an altar in white marble (height o*g2™), found in the grove of 
Furrina on the east slope of the Ianiculum, adorned with two eagles, two Ammon-masks, 
two ducrania, festoons, ewer, fatera, Gorgéneion, etc. and inscribed Aut | Kepauvig | 
“Aprems | ) kal Didwvia | Kumpia | €& émcrayhs | avéOnnev | cai Novdes (séc) | Poppives (séc), 
z.e. a dedication to Zeus Kepav’vwos and the Nymphae Forrinae by a Phoenician woman 
of Kypros, called Artemis the Sidonian. The Gorgon’s head perhaps symbolises the 
Forrinae assimilated to the Hurzae. See further G. Wissowa in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. 
vii. 383). 

(18) Sicily (Zuscr. Gr. Sic. Zt. no. 2407, 3a—d: see infra p. 812 ff.). 


Astrapaios, Astrapton 809 


Of these the most instructive is that of Seleukeia in Syria, the 
port of Antiocheia. Here—says Appian'—Seleukos i Nikator, when 
founding the city, followed the guidance of a thunderbolt, regarding 
it as a ‘Zeus-sign’ (Dizosemza)*. He therefore bade the citizens treat 
the thunderbolt as a god: which they did, worshipping it with 
ritual and hymns. Probably the object of their veneration was an 
actual bolt wrought of gold, like those that were borne along in the 
great pageant of Ptolemy ii Philadelphos*. In favour of this sup- 
position is the fact that at Seleukeia in the reign of Seleukos iv 





Philopator (187—175 B.C.) certain priests were annually appointed 
to act as keraunophérot or ‘thunderbolt-bearers*’ Silver and bronze 
coins of Seleukeia from c. 108 B.C. onwards have as their reverse 
type (fig. 771) a large thunderbolt bound with a fillet and placed on 
a cushioned stool®. That this was the missile of Zeus Kevraznios 
appears, not only from a gloss in Hesychios®, but also from sundry 
bronze coins on which the same type is accompanied by the name 
of the god (fig. 772)’. 


1 Appian. Syr. 58. 2 Supra p. 4 ff. 

5 Athen. 202 E Kepauvods xpuaods dexamjyxers Svo Kai cTépavov Spvos diddeBor. 

4 Corp. tnscr. Gr. iii no. 4458, 23=Dittenberger Orient. Gr. inscr. sel. nO. 245, 47 
Kepavvoddpoe | K.T.d. 

> Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Galatia, etc. pp. Ixxiif., 270 ff. pl. 32, 6—8, 10, pl. 33, 2, 
Hunter Cat. Coins iii. 213 ff. pl. 74, 29, 31, Anson Mum. Gr. iv. 35 f. nos. 568—578 
pl. rof., Head Azst. num.? p. 782 f. Fig. 771 is from a tetradrachm in my collection : 
ZEAEVKEQN THSIEPAS KAI AVTONOMOY ; beneath stool H| (the year 18, 
reckoned from the beginning of the city’s autonomy in 108 or 10g B.C.); in field monogram. 

Bronze coins of Demetrios iii Philopator (95—88 B.c.), probably struck at Seleukeia, 
have vev. a thunderbolt bound with a fillet and placed on a low stool (Avit. Mus. Cat. 
Cows Seleucid Kings ete. p. ror pl. 26, 11, Anson Mum. Gr. iv. 55 no. 567, Hunter Cat. 
Coins iii. 114 nos. 2—4, E. Babelon Catalogue des monnaies grecques de la bibliotheque 
nationale Les Rois de Syrie, d’Arménie et de Commagéne Paris 1890 p. 207 nos. 1571— 
1573 pl. 28, 5). 

6 Hesych. s.v. xepavuos’...xal Zebs év Dedevxig. 

7 Rasche Lex. Mum. viii. 456 AL 2 autonomous, 470 Antoninus Pius, 471 Al 3 
Septimius Severus, Ai 2 Caracalla, xi. 1258. W. Wroth in the Avit. Mus. Cat. Coins 


810 Zeus Keraunobélos, Keraznzios ; 


With these coins of Seleukeia must be compared bronze pieces 
of Diokaisareia in Kilikia, struck by Iulia Domna (figs. 773, 774)! 
and M. lulius Philippus the younger®. Their reverse type shows a 
high-backed throne: its foreposts are surmounted by two lions, and 
on its box-like seat is a winged thunderbolt erect in a gwasz-human 
attitude. The lions suggest that Zeus had here taken over the throne 
of the Anatolian mother-goddess? or her consort‘. And the thunder- 





Fig. 773- 


bolt was appropriate, not only to Zeus, but also to the reigning 
representative of the gens Lula’. 

H. Usener has collected analogous designs from the coinage 
and sculpture of the west®. A silver coin of Vespasian issued in the 
year 77 or 78 A.D. represents a winged thunderbolt lying on a draped 
stool’, This has been regarded’ as an allusion to Vespasian’s re- 
building of the temple of Iupiter Cafztolinus*®, which contained a 
golden thunderbolt of fifty pounds’ weight presented on the advice 
of the decemviri in 217 B.C. But the type probably hints that 
Vespasian himself was Iupiter’s vicegerent™. Titus in 80 A.D. issued 
gold” and silver coins with the same design (fig. 775)". Trajan, a 


Galatia, etc. p. 276 no. 56 Caracalla pl. 33, 6 (=my fig. 772) gives a different description 
of the type (‘Large thunderbolt of Zeus Keraunios resting on roof of shrine [within which, 
sacred stone of Zeus Kasios?]’) and is followed by Head fest. num.” p. 783, Anson 
Num. Gr. iv. 57 no. 587 pl. 11: CEAEVK... [ZEV]JC KEPAVNIOC. 

1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Lycaonia, etc. pp. lvi, 73 pl. 13, t (=my fig. 773), Briider 
Egger Auktions- Katalog xlvi Griechische Miinzen (Sammlung des Herrn Theodor Prowe, 
Moskau, u.a.) Wien 1914 p. 103 no. 2220 (misread ... OABEQ.N) pl. 36 (=my fig. 774). 
AAPAIOKAI CAPEXLN ='Adpliarav] Avoxargapéwv. 

2 Mionnet Descr. de méd. ant. iil. 577 f. no. 197. 

3 Supra i. 553, li. 406 ff. n. 0, 552 n. 1. 4 Supra p. 550 fi. 

5 Class. Rev. 1904 xviii. 363, 371, Folk-Lore 1905 xvi. 286f., 308 ff. 

6 H. Usener in the Rhein. Mus. 1905 Ix. 6 (=a. Kleine Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 
1913 iv. 475f.). 

7 Morell. Zhes. Num. Imp. Rom. ii. 299 pl. 10, 40, Stevenson—Smith—Madden 
Dict. Rom. Coins p. 400 fig. Not recognised by Cohen, and therefore suspect. 

8 Morell. doc. cit. 9 Supra i. 44. 

WW SLivaraze. ie N Folk-Lore 1905 XVi- 313- 

12 Morell. of. cit. ii. 353 pl. 6, 54, Cohen Monn. emp. rom.” i. 455 no. 315. 

13 Morell. of. cat. ii. 366 pl. 8, 70, Cohen of. cet. i. 455 nos. 314, 316. Fig. 775 is 
from a specimen in my collection. 


Astrapaios, Astrapton S1I 


would-be Iupiter?, ‘restored’ the types of Vespasian? and Titus? 
in gold. Domitian, who was often called Iupiter* by the poets of 
his day and sometimes Yomrans*, naturally made the device his 
own’, And Antoninus Pius, another pretender to the sky-god’s 





Fig. 775. 


honours’, issued silver coins of similar stamp (fig. 776)’, on which 
however the thunderbolt is unwinged. Lastly’, a relief in the 
museum at Mantua (fig. 778)” portrays the vegalza, as it were, of 


1 Supra p. 100 n. 6. 

2 Morell. of. cz¢. ii. 274 pl. 5, 28, Cohen of. cit.2 i. 419 no. 650, Collection de Ponton 
@ Amécourt Paris 1887 pl. 6, 149. 

3 Cohen of. cé¢.) i. 380 no. 318 pl. 16, 76.2 i. 462 no. 403 fig. 

4 Stat. sz/v. 1. 6. 27, Mart. ed. 9. 28. 10, g. 86. 8, 14. I. 2, cp. Dionys. fer. 210 ods 
Atos ovk adéyovras amw\ecev Avcovis alyuy. 

eMart, 46. 6. 10.0; 7. 56. 4 (supra i. 751 n..8), 7. OG. T, 9. 39 15.9: 65. 1, 9. 86. 7, 
TOW Stents: 

Bronze coins of Domitian, issued 85—95 A.D., show him 
standing towards the left, in military attire, with a thunder- 
bolt in his right hand and a headless spear in his left, while 
a palm-bearing Victory places a wreath on his head (Morell. 
op. cit. il. 461 pl. 15, 23 and 24, Cohen of. cit.? i. 512 
nos. 509—515). 

An engraved cornelian in my possession (fig. 777. Scale ?) 
represents Domitian (?) as a youthful Iupiter standing in a 
similar pose, with the same attributes in his hands, an azg/s 
round his neck, and an eagle at his feet. 

6 Morell. of. ciz. ii. 436 pl. 9, 28 (silver of 81 A.D.), 437 
pl. 9, 33 and 37 (silver of 81 A.D.), 438 pl. 10, 7 (silver of 
82 A.D.), Cohen of. cz¢.? i. 475 nos. 61 (gold of 80 A.D.) and 
62 (silver of 804.D.), 517 no. 554 (silver of 80A.D.), 518 
nos. 574 (gold of 81 A.D.) and 575 (silver of 81 A.D.), 51g no. 597 (silver of 82 A.D.). 

1 Supra ps LOl n. 5. 

® Cohen of. cit.” ii. 304 no. 345 (silver of 145A.D.). I figure a specimen in my 
collection. 

® A relief said to have come from the amphitheatre at Rome (Gruter Zuscr. ant. tot. 
orb. Rom. i. 7 no. 1 with pl. after Boissard Aztzgg. iii. 128, Montfaucon Antiquity 
Explained trans. D. Humphreys London 1721 i. 32f. pl. 12 no. 5) amplifies the coin-type: 
an eagle is perched on the thunderbolt, and the throne is flanked by a pair of globes. The 
accompanying inscription (Corp. ziscr. Lat. vi no. 3139*) purports to record a vow made 
by Iulius Pudens Severianus to Iupiter Opéemus Maximus and to Iuno Regina for the 
health of M. Aurelius Antoninus Pius Felix Augustus and Iulia Augusta, z.e. Caracalla and 
his mother, or Elagabalos and one of his wives (Iulia Paula? Iulia Aquilia Severa?). But 
the whole monument appears to be an impudent forgery (cp. supra i. 714 nN. 4). 

10 D..G. Labus Museo della Reale Accademia di Mantova Mantova 1830 i. 69f. 
pl. 20 (=my fig. 778), E. Braun Vorschule der Kunstmythologie Gotha 1854 p. § pl. 6. 





812 Zeus Keraunobélos, Keraznios ; 


the king of gods and men. On a stool or couch, the posts of which 
were once topped by a pair of kneeling Giants, is spread the 
royal mantle. Upon this lies a great winged thunderbolt ; beyond 





Fig. 778. 
it is seen a transverse sceptre ; and a powerful eagle mounts guard 


over all. 
Sling bullets of lead marked with a thunderbolt and inscribed— 


Victory of Zeus Kerazinios— 
have occasionally been found in Sicily (fig. 779)’. They were doubt- 





Sa ca 
SS 





Fig. 779, a—c. 
less used in the second Servile War (103—100 B.C.) by the insurgent 


1 Inscr. Gr. Sic. Zt. no. 2407, 3a—d. See further A. Salinas ‘ Catalogo di ghiande 
missili siciliane’ in the Ann. d. Inst. 1878 1. 32 f. nos. 6 and 7 pl. F (=my fig. 779, a, 4): 
NIKH | AIOC || KEPAV|NIOV and AIOC | NIKH || [KEPAVNIOV]. 
Both bullets are in the Museum at Palermo. T. Bergk Zyschriften rémischer Schleuder- 
geschosse Leipzig 1876 pp. 95 ff., 134 no. 143 pl. 2, 39 (=my fig. 779, ¢) adds a similar 
example from Cumae in Campania: AIOC | NIKH || KEPAY|NIOY (retrograde). 


Astrapaios, Astradpton 813 


slaves', who attempted thus to invest their puny missiles with the 
terrors of the thunderbolt. The slave-leader Athenion, who posed 







REPAY 
NG 


A® HNA 






pa 


LPB ~yWos NY 


~ 








NY AS 
A 






sy 7 me 


¥ 
| 
| 
~e 
= —- 


(i 
mew TTT a 
EN 

\\ 
















a) 


MAPERQAWAN: 








~ y 






Fig. 780. 


1 G. Kaibel in the Znscr. Gr. Sic. Jt. p. 608. 


2 For the thunderbolt as a device on sling-bullets see also Znscr. Gr. Sic. /t. no. 2407, 
44, ¢ (with inscription AIOC | NIKH), G. Fougéres in Daremberg—Saglio Dict. Ant. 
li. 1610 fig. 3624 (with inscription ACIPE (?) for acczZe, retrograde; found in Spain, and 
probably used in the war of Caesar against Pompey, cp. de//. Hisp. 13 and 18), fig. 3628 
(with inscription AE=A[I], cp. Corp. tscr. Gr. iv no. 8529, a; found on the Akropolis 
at Athens), Arztish Museum: A Guide to the exhibition illustrating Greek and Roman Life 
London 1908 pp. 99, 105 no. 220 fig. 86 (with inscription ZQIAOY ; found on the battle- 


field of Marathon), and many others listed by C. Zangemeister ‘Glandes plumbeae Latine 
inscriptae’ in the Zphemeris epigraphica 1885 vi p. xlv s.v. ‘fulmen.’ 


814. Zeus Keraunobélos, Keraunios ; 


as king! with purple robe, silver sceptre, and regal diadem? was a 
Cilician by birth, and had perhaps brought the cult of the lightning- 
god with him from Asia Minor. 

In view of the foregoing examples it may be maintained that 
the Graeco-Roman age witnessed, not indeed a recrudescence of the 
old zoistic conception of Zeus Keraunés*, but the rise and spread 
of a new theistic conception—that of Zeus Kerazinios, a deity too 
sublime to be represented in human form‘, whose potency might 
yet be inferred from the shape of his dreaded weapon. In a word, 
the thunderbolt, once a primitive fetish, had become, not merely 
the attribute of a human, but the symbol of a superhuman, power. 

At Tegea in Arkadia there have from time to time been found 
numerous small four-sided pillars of Doliana marble, capped in 
each case by a diminutive pyramid and often inscribed with the 


An eagle on a thunderbolt is the device of a sling-bullet published by W. Vischer 
‘Antike Schleudergeschosse’ in his Aveine Schriften Leipzig 1878 ii. 262f. no. 32 
pl. 14=G. Fougeres Joc. czt. fig. 3626 (with inscription [A]JHAAHTPIOY, perhaps 
Demetrios Poliorketes). 

1 Appian. AZthr. 59. 

2 Flor. 2: 7.010. 

3 A fragmentary relief from Emesa (Homs), now at Brussels (F. Cumont Catalogue 
des sculptures & inscriptions antiques (monuments lapidaires) des Musées Royaux du 
Cinguantenaire* Bruxelles 1913 p. 68 ff. no. 55 fig.: height o°41™, breadth 0°32™), 
represents a series of at least four Syrian deities, from left to right—(a) a divinity of whom 
one foot only remains; (4) a god in Roman military costume, with a spear in his right 
hand, a thunderbolt (?) in his left, and a rayed 7zdus round his head ; (c) a veiled goddess, 
with a javelin or sceptre in her left hand, a necklace round her throat, and an oval shield 
partly hidden by her head; (d) a god in oriental military costume, with a lance in his 
right hand, a circular shield on his left arm, and a turban (?) round his head. Above (c) 
and (d@) are the dedications AQHNA and KEPAY|NQ@. Below (a)—(d) runs a longer 
inscription : [--——]\w, "lapeBddw, Ay Bwrw, kal De[...-] | [-———] brep owrnplas abroi 
xé T[@v idiwy]. This has been variously completed. S. Ronzevalle in the Rev. Arch. 1902 
i. 387 ff. and in the Comptes rendus de 2 Acad. des inscr. et belles-lettres 1902 p. 235 ff. 
with pl. (=my fig. 780), 1903 p. 276 ff. proposes: [ects marpywos Brl\w, “lapiBory, 
"AyNBodAwW Kal Deulipdmer]. | [6 deiva rod detvos] brép cwrnpias aitod Ké tL@v Téxvwy (?) 
avé0nxev]. Semiramis is here the goddess Semea or Sima, on whom see O. Hofer in 
Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 660 ff. R. Dussaud in the Rev. Arch. 1903 i. 143 f., 1904 i. 206 ff., 
id. Notes de mythologie syrienne Paris. 1903 p. 104 ff. fig. 27 (=Reinach Rép. Reliefs ii. 
163 no. 3), za. Les Arabes en Syrie avant ’ Islam Paris 1907 p. 130 ff. fig. 28 suggests : 
[Aeots marpwors By]\w LapeBwrw. "AyiBorw || ’APnva, Kepavyd || cai Le[cula] | [6 dea 
Tov deivos| Urép swrnplas abrod Ké TL Qv Téxvwv]. F. Cumont Zoc. cit. would read: [@eots 
matpios Madax87?}\w, “lapeBidw, “AyhiBorw Kal Le[iula]| [o detva rod detvos] vbrép 
cwrnplas avrod (sic) xé t[@v idlwy], but hesitates between Marax87rw, BijdrAw, and 
*EdayaBddw. He would identify (4) with Zarhzbol, ‘Lord of the Months,’ an originally 
lunar but later solar god of Palmyra (zd. in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. ix. 750 f.), 
(c) perhaps with Seimia, and (@) possibly—but not very probably—with some form of 
Ba‘al heading the dedication. Amid much that remains uncertain it is clear that Keraunos 
is here conceived as a god of military aspect, equipped with lance and shield,—a great 
advance upon primitive zoism. 

4 See, however, sapra p. 808 n. o no. (13). 


Astrapaios, Astrépton 815 


name of a god or goddess!. The oldest of the series is the fifth- 
century pillar of Zeus Szorpdos (fig. 781)”, whose 
appellative denotes the god ‘of the Lightning- 
flash *” ‘ 

Another form of the same title was A strapaios, 
applied to Zeus both in literature‘ and in cult. 
His worship is attested for Bithynia by inscrip- 
tions of the second century A.D. At Antandros 
in Mysia he had a festival lasting more days than 
one®. At Athens there was a hearth (eschdra) of 
Zeus Astrapaios on the city wall between the 
Pythion and the Olympion: here, for three days 
and nights in each of three successive months, 
the Pythaistai watched a place near Phyle 
known as the Chariot (Hdrma); if they saw 
a flash of lightning above it, they had to send 
a certain sacrifice to Delphoi’. The custom must 


1 Inscr. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. ii nos. 59—66, O. Kern Lrscr7p- 
tiones Graecae Bonnae £913 p. x pl. 11, 3, supra i. 520n. 2. Cp. 
the kipBes discussed z72/ra Append. M. 

* A. S. Arvanitopoullos in the ’E¢. “Apx. 1906 p. 63f. fig. 
(inscription only), K. A. Rhomaios 24. rgrt1 p. 150 fig. 1 (=my 
fig. 781), Zwser. Gr. Arc. Lac. Mess. ii no. 64 fig. (inscription 
only). Height: 0°67™. 

3 Hesych. s.vv. oroprdy (so J. Alberti for oropriay cod.) 
Thy aotpamny and orpord (so T. Bergk for otpor7 cod.)* dorpamr7. 
Ilagior. See F. Bechtel Die griechischen Dialekte Berlin 1921 
en a5 Te 

4 Aristot. de mundo 7. 401a 16f. (Apul. de mando 37 trans- 
lates dotparatos by fulgurator), Cornut. ¢heol. 9 p. 9, 13 Lang, 
Eustath. zz Z/. p. 786, 4, Schdll—-Studemund amecd. i. 264 "Erifera Acés (6) dorparratov, 
266 ‘Emidera Acés (17) dorparaiov. In Orph. hk. Zeus 15.9, 4. Zeus Astrdpios 20. 5 metre 
demands daorpame, dorpamov for dorpamate, dorpamratov codd.: in the title of the latter 
hymn E. Abel restored dorpamiov for agtpaméws codd. 

5 Pp. E. Legrand in the Auzl/. Corr. Hell. 1893 xvii. 539 f. no. 16 (at Zcheliajik near 
Kios) a-yabje tux, | Act’Oduprip cal Aorpalratw kai Ajunrpr Kap|ropdpw Pidyros ed|xiv 
irép rev deorro|rGv. KabrepbOy dé 6 | Oeds bd XapucdeavGv (unknown) | rod djuou ev re 
mpatw | érec ert Titov Avrwrei|jyvou Kaicapos (138 A.D.), G. Mendel 26. 1900 xxiv. 383 f. 
no. 33 (at Zent-Kewi on the northern shore of the lake of Nikaia) [dya]6je rex | [---] 
Leds’ Aa(c)rparratos. | [6] djuos éretunoev Kao|crov Avatov rov &xdi\Kov x.7.X. 

6 F, Lenormant in the Rev. Arch. 1864 ii. 49 Gdoke THe BovAne Kal TOe Sjuwox | ’AvTay- 
Splwv arepavGcat | Wodukparnv IloXvpdrous | /AOnvatov rie mpwrye rhs | éoprijs Ards 


P 
4 
y 
F 


\ 


1\' \ 
E \\\ 
Water WHA gS 


uC 





Fig. 781. 


*Aorpataiou | K.T.d. 

7 Strab. 404 ws 0 atirws kal ro Apua, Tis Tavaypaixys koun Epnuos epi Thy Muxadyrrév, 
ard rod Audtapdou dpuaros \aBoica Tovvoua, érépa obca TOU Apuatos TOU Kata Thy ArriKyy, 
& éore repli udyv, Shuov THs Arri«hs Guopov 7H Tavdypa. evrevOev d€ 7) wapoimia Thy apxiv 
érxev h Aéyouoa ‘‘ oréray 50" Apuaros doTpayy,” doTpamiy Tia onuELoUMeVN KATA XpHoMOV 
Tov Neyouévwv Ivbaicrav, BrerbvTwv ws emi TO “Apua kal Tore weurdvTwy Ti Ovoiay eis 
Ae\dovs, drav dorpdwavta iSwow: érjpov 5 emi rpets wijvas, kad’ Exacrov uiva éml rpeis 


816 Zeus Keraunobélos, Keratnzos ; 


have been an ancient one, for it had already passed into a proverb 
in the fifth century B.c.! Indeed, it not improbably dates back to 
the time when Zeus the lightning-god was lord of Pytho%. Apollon, 
who took over so much from his predecessors*, may well have retained 
the ominous flash of Zeus‘. As to the ritual of the ensuing sacri- 
fice, inscriptions of the second and first centuries B.C. tell how 
Pythaistai of various noble families took first-fruits from Athens to 
Delphoi, and brought back a sacred tripod on a chariot, together 
with a priestess called the Fire-bearer®. The rites thus practised in 


nuépas Kal viKras, amd THs éoxdpas Tov’ Agrparaiov Avds- gore O° atirn ev TH Telxe werakd 
Tod IIvdiov cai rod ‘OAvuriov. B. Niese ‘ Apollodors Commentar zum Schiffskataloge als 
Quelle Strabo’s’ in the Rhezz. Mus. 1877 xxxii. 267 ff. showed that Strabon drew his 
information from Apollodoros’ note on the Boeotian Harma (//. 2. 499) in his work epi 
ve@v katadéyou. Strabon in turn was the source of Steph. Byz. s.v."Apua and Eustath. 
in Il. p. 235, 44.ff., p. 266, 33 ff. 

1 Frag. com. anon. 110 (Frag. com. Gr. iv. 631 f. Meineke) af. Hesych. dorpdyy dia 
Iuxvés: avri rod 60 "Apyaros. The subject of dotpdyy, as Meineke saw, is probably 
Perikles in his character of human Zeus: cp. Aristoph. Ach. 530f. 

The proverb is recorded by Zenob. 1. 37 (cod. M) 6rav 6: “Apuaros dorpawn- 7 rapommia 
elpnrat érl Tay xpoviws ywoudvwy- émedn "AOnvator eldPacr méumew eis Aedpovs buciay, 
THphnoavres doTpamiy amd Twos Torov paveicay, bv "Apua mpooayopetovow (cp. Souid. s.v. 
"Apua, Hesych. s.vv. dorpari O¢ “Apuaros and 6c’ "Apyaros, Bekker amecd. i. 212, 16f.), 
who is known to have epitomised the proverbs of Didymos and Loukillos of Tarrha 
(Souid. s.v. Znvdfros, cp. schol. Aristoph. 72. 134). It is used by Plout. symp. 5. 5. 2 
oi yap omaviws Kai “ du "Apuaros,” ws pacw, éori@yTes K.T-N. 

2 Supra pp. 179 f., 186 ff., 231 ff., 267. 

3 Supra pp. 231, 266. 

+ Lightning was occasionally connected with Apollon (Gruppe Gr. AZjth. Rel. 
p- 1226 n. 1): see e.g. Eur. Jon 285 tiuad ode (sc. the Long Cliffs on the N. side of the 
Akropolis at Athens) Iv@tos dorpamai re WdOcac; Apollod. 1. 9. 26 mAéovres 5é vuKros 
ocpodp@ mepimimrovor xeyuav. “Ard\\wy 5é ras él Tas MeXayrious deipas, rokevoas Tw 
BéXet els thy Oddacoay Kathorpawev. of dé tAnclov EbedcoavTo vAcov, TH 5é Tapa mpocdoxiay 
dvapavjvat mpocopuicbévres Avadny éxadecav. ldpvoduevoar 6€ Bwuov Amé\Nwvos Aly\7jTov 
kal Ovowdcavres ér’ edwxlav érpdarnoay (cp. Ap. Rhod. 4. 1701 ff., Orph. Avg. 1353 ff.). 
Coins of Axos in Crete, struck in s. iv. B.c., have odv, head of Apollon, vez. tripod ; but 
from ¢. 300 B.C. onwards the head of Apollon is replaced usually by a head of Zeus, and 
the tripod sometimes gives place to a thunderbolt, sometimes has a thunderbolt resting 
upon it (Brit. Mus. Cat. Corns Crete etc. p. 14f. pl. 3, 12, 17, J. N. Svoronos Mumis- 
matique de la Crite anctenne Macon 1890 p. 40 pl. 3, 10 and 11, cp. p. 38 pl. 3, 1, Head 
Hist. num.” p. 459). Similarly a copper of Antiochos xi Epiphanes (? Antiochos viii 
Grypos) has vev. a winged thunderbolt resting on a tripod (Bvit. Mus. Cat. Coins Seleucid 
Kings of Syria p. 99 pl. 26, 7). 

5 L. Couve in the Bull. Corr. Hell. 1894 xviii. goff. no. 10, 2 ff.= Michel Recuez? 
a@’Inscr. gr. no. 266, 2 ff.=J. Baunack in Collitz—Bechtel Gr. Déal.-/uschr. ii. 872 f. 
no. 2728, 2 ff. = Houdlles de Delphes ili. 2 no. 33, 2 ff., cp. 7b. p. 290, = Dittenberger Sy//. 
inscr. Gr® no. 697 L, 2 ff. (from the wall of the Treasury of the Athenians at Delphoi,’ 
relating to the second Pythais, that of 128/7 B.c.) [émel "AA]xldauos Evpdvous [6 buérepos] 
moNiras, evoeBOs Kal doiws diaxeluevos mori Te Tov Oedy | [Kai worl] Tay wow audr, ayay[ ov 
dé klat rov Tplroda ep’ dpuaros akiws Tod Te Geod Kat Tod bwerépov | [dauou k]al audy, Trav Te 
maperidauiav [kai] avacrpopay érotnoaro ws évdéxerac kaNNoTAa* K.T.). 

A. Nikitsky in Hermes 1893 xxviii. 619 ff.= Fouzlles de Delphes iii. 2 no. 13, 1 ff., Cp. 26. 
p-. 290,= Dittenberger Sy//. izscr. Gr no. 711 D, 22 ff. (from the wall of the Treasury 


Astrapaios, Astrdépton 817 


the Hellenistic age—the offering of first-fruits, the carrying of the 
tripod, and the fetching of need-fire—were doubtless a later revival 
of earlier usage. But the only fifth-century evidence is Aischylos’ 
allusion to ‘ the«oad-making sons of Hephaistos’ as expounded by 
the scholiast, who informs us that sacred processions from Athens 
to Delphoi were headed by men bearing double axes'. The weapon, 
whatever its precise usage in the ceremony, confirms us in the 
impression that we have here to do with an ancient cult of Zeus. 

Near Laodikeia Katakekaumene in Lykaonia Zeus was wor- 
shipped under the fuller title ‘He that Thunders and Lightens?’ 
The combination of these alternative epithets is unusual, but occurs 
again on an oblong altar of Roman date found in Thera’. 


(¢) Zeus Zbelsotirdos. 


G,. Seure, who during the last five and twenty years has done 
more than any man to help forward the study of Thracian archaeo- 
logy, published in 1913 a whole series of monuments relating to 
the cult of Zeus Zelsodrdos, and added an important discussion of 


of the Athenians at Delphoi, relating to the third Pythais, that in the spring of 105 B.C.) 
muppopos n éy AedPO[y]- | Time. | Uv@aiorai €& Evsar[pc6Gv]: | four names. | é« IlLup- 
paxd@v- | one name (a later addition). | €« Kyptixwv: | three names followed by a blank 
line. | €& Evveddv- | three names. | é« Tetparohéwv: | one name. | 6 éml ras dmapxds: | 
* Auexparns “Ex[icrpar ou. 

L. Couve in the Azdl. Corr. Hell. 1894 xviii. 87 ff. no. 9, 2 ff.=Michel Recuerl 
a Inscr, gr. no. 1285, 2 ff.= Fouilles de Delphes iii. 2 no. 32, 2 ff.=Dittenberger Sy//. 
inscr. Gr. no. 728 J, 2 ff. (from the wall of the Treasury of the Athenians at Delphoi, 
relating to the fourth Pythais, that in the spring of 96 B.C.) érl Mévropos dpxyovTos év 
Aedoois, év 5€’AOnvars | ’Apyelov, édaBev Tov iepdy rplroda éx Aekpwv Kal drelKduoev, Kat 
Thy wuppopov Hyayev Audixparys “Emilorparov “APnvatos. 

The evidence for the Pythais has been collected and discussed by J. Toepffer ‘ Die 
~ attischen Pythaisten und Deliasten’ in Hermes 1888 xxiii. 321 ff., 633, V. von Schoeffer 
De Deli insulae rebus (Studien fiir classische Philologie und Archdologte ix. 1) Berlin 
1889 p. 11 f., E. Pfuhl De Athenienstum pompis sacrzs Berolini 1900 p. 104 ff., G. Colin 
Le culte d’ Apollon Pythien a Athénes Paris 1905 p. 1 ff.; W. S. Ferguson ‘ Researches in 
Athenian and Delian Documents. 111’ in A7/zo 1909 ix. 304 ff., A. Boéthius Dze Pythais : 
Studien zur Geschichte der Verbindungen zwischen Athen und Delphi Uppsala 1918 
pp- I—172 (a comprehensive and satisfactory handling of an intricate subject). A con- 
venient summary of facts is given by Dittenberger Sy//. izscr. Gr. ii. 298—301, and a 
good popular sketch by Frazer Golden Bough?: The Magic Art i. 32f. and W. S. 
Ferguson Hel/enistic Athens London 1911 p. 372f. (though Sir J. G. Frazer is probably 
mistaken in supposing that the need-fire was carried in the tripod: see Boéthius of. ci¢. 
Pp, 721h.): 

1 Supra p. 628. 

2 Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Ash. Mitth. 1888 xiii. 235 f. no. 1 (Khadyn Khan) 
Mnvd6[w]|[plos dpxee[p]|[e]s Act Bpov|rayte kal ’Alorparro[djlyre A | [e]0xn\v. Meno- 
doros, as Sir William remarks, was perhaps high-priest of an imperial cult. 

* Inser. Gr. ins. iti Suppl. no. 1359 Ads Bpovrayros Kal | "Aorpamrovros. Cp. Orph. 

h. Zeus Astrdpios 20. 3 aorpamrovra cédas vepéwy matayodpbum addy. 


i, 52 


818 Zeus Zbhelsotirdos 


his name and nature. The monuments in question comprise seven 
reliefs, two coins, and three votive inscriptions. 

Of the reliefs there are three distinct types. The first, repre- 
sented by five examples’, shows a bearded god, usually clad in a 





_—, 
ol fe) 


ae) erie Brees 
W' 2 TAART FALE 


Fig. 782. Fig. 783. 





chlamys, advancing from left to right with a thunderbolt in his raised 
right hand and an eagle on his outstretched left arm. Beneath his 
left hand there is a pillar (figs. 782, 783) or altar (fig. 784), and at his 


1 G. Seure ‘Les images thraces de Zeus Kéraunos ZBEAZOTPAOZ, TEBEAEIZIZ, 
ZAAMOZID’ in the Rev. Et, Gr. 1913 xxvi. 225—261. 

2 (1) Relief in white marble, at Sofia (G. Seure Joc. cit. p. 226 f. fig. 1), inscribed 
POMISPA (?), of which the only traces now legible are |Z of the last two letters. The 
original reading may have been [Zfe]pO[tov ]pd[w] (2d. 75. p. 242 n. 3): cp. enfra p. 82rf. 
Nude bearded (?) god, brandishing bolt (?) in raised right hand and extending left arm, 
on which an eagle is perched, over a four-sided pillar. Height : 016™. 

(2) Marble relief from Pascalevetz near Nikopolis in Moesia, now at Sofia (Reinach 
Rép. Reltefs ii. 157 no. 1 (=my fig. 782), G. Seure Joc. ct. p. 228 f. fig. 2), inscribed 
Dovpa evxnv. Bearded god, with ch/amjs, brandishing bolt in raised right hand and ex- 
tending left arm, on which an eagle is perched, over a pillar (probably not a tree). At his 
feet, asnake. Height: o*20™. 

(3) Marble relief from Samzovoden near Nikopolis in Moesia, now at Sofia (G. Seure 
in the Rev. Arch. 1908 ii. 52 f. no. 53, 7d. in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 229 f. fig. 3 
(=my fig. 783)), with an inscription, which was read by Dobrousky as Ad] Ziauéypa, by 
Seure first as Ad{t] Ziauérpa and later as [Be]&e Ziapérpla]\us with compendium of an. 
Bearded god, with ch/amjs, brandishing club-like bolt in raised right hand and extending 
left arm, over which is an eagle, to touch a pillar with moulded top. At his feet, a 
snake. Height: 0°205™. 

(4) Marble relief from Béla Tcherkva near Nikopolis in Moesia, now at Sofia (G. 
Seure in the Rev. Arch. 1g08 ii. 75 no. 5, dd. in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 231 ff. fig. 4), 
uninscribed. Bearded god, with ch/amys, brandishing bolt in raised right hand and 


Zeus Zbelsotirdos 819 


feet two of the reliefs give a gliding snake (figs. 782, 783). In the 
‘main this type is clearly adapted from a common Hellenic scheme, 
that of Zeus advancing to the attack!. Accordingly, its least barbaric 





Fig. 784. 


example (fig. 784) is accompanied by the dedication ‘To Zeus 
Z belthiotrdos. 
The second type, of which there is but one specimen (fig. 785)”, 


extending left arm, on which an eagle is perched, to touch a pillar. At his right side, on 
a smaller scale, stands a draped female figure. Height: 0°17™. 

(5) Marble relief from Bouzadjilar in the district of SZiven, now at Sofia (S. Reinach 
in the Bulletén archéologique du comité des travaux historiques et sctentifiques 1894 
p- 425 f. pl. 20, r (=my fig. 784), P. Perdrizet in the Revue des études anctennes 1899 p. 23 
no. 2, G. Seure in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 235 f. fig. 6), inscribed Avi Z8eAcovpd[w] 
Moxdopis Spov. Zeus, bearded and wearing Aimdtion, stands towards the right, with a 
twisted bolt in his raised right hand and an eagle on his extended left, beneath which is 
a small rectangular altar. Height: 0°35™. 

1 Supra p. 739 ff. 

2 Marble relief from Sowkhatchéin the district of Bicla Slatina, now at Sofia (G. Seure 
in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 233 fl. fig. 5 (=my fig. 785)), uninscribed. Height : o-19™. 

52—2 


820 Zeus Lbelsotirdos 


shows the same god still brandishing his bolt, but mounted on a 
two-horse chariot, which carries also a draped and veiled goddess. : 
She holds in both hands attributes hard to determine—in her right 
perhaps two ears of wheat (?a cornu copiae), in her left perhaps a 
long torch (?a sceptre). The chariot is preceded by the snake, of 
which the tail alone is visible. This relief, despite its extreme 
clumsiness, is again composed of Hellenic elements, the sotzf of 
Zeus fulminant in a chariot with a snaky tail before him being 





Fig. 785. 


probably drawn from the Gigantomachy. And here it is of interest 
to remember that in the neighbourhood of Constantinople thunder 
is nowadays attributed to St Elias, who drives his chariot across the 
sky in pursuit of a dragon, and that the modern Greek as like as 
not will say ‘The lightning is chasing the snakes?” 

The third type, again represented by a single relief (fig. 786)°, 
shows the Thracian god once more in the guise of a Greek Zeus’, 
a nude, bearded figure facing us with sceptre held high and lowered 


' For an analogous case see supra p. 82 f. 

2 Supra i. 183. 

3 Marble relief, found in 1875 near the church of S. Eusebio at Rome, 2.e. on a part 
of the Esquiline where foreign troops, including Thracians, had their barracks, and now 
to be seen in the Palazzo dei Conservatori (R. Lanciani in the Bud/. Comm. Arch. Comun. 
di Roma 1880 viii. 12 no. 157 pl. 1 (=my fig. 786), Matz—Duhn Ant. Bildw. tn Rom iii. 
146 no. 3771, P. Perdrizet in the Revue des études anciennes 1899 p. 24 no. 4, G. Seure in 
the Rev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 236 ff. fig. 7, Reinach Rép. Reliefs iii. 203 no. 3), inscribed 
Ge@ ZBepOotpiw Kal “lauBadovhy émipalvecrdras Avp(jAros) Acovticros orpar(cdrns) 
xa(p)rys | Tod mpart(wpravod) Exarovtdpx(ov) PrAwpevtivov Oéo[v] | avéOnxa=lnscr. Gr. 
Sic. //. no. 981. After x(p)rns there is space for a missing numeral. 

4 Supra p. 749 ff. 


Zeus ZLbelsotrdos 82% 


bolt. But this time he is grouped with a younger god on horseback, 
recognisable by his effeminate limbs and abundant hair. G. Seure 
does not hesitate to name him Dionysos, a hypostasis or by-form 
of the Thracian rider. He points out that the relief was dedicated 
by one Dionysios (omen omen) ‘to the god Zberthotrdos and to 
Lambadoiles’—a title which recalls the horse-riding Dionysos, ‘ the 





Fig. 786: 


god Asdoziles, of the Brussels relief. I may add? that the curious 
tradition of /émbe the dozile* or ‘slave, who beguiled Demeter by 
her jokes and is herself described as a Thracian? or a Bacchant’, 
was not improbably founded on a misunderstanding of this cult- 
epithet. 

The coins of Serdike and Pautalia in Thrace adduced by Seure‘ 
are only variants of a wide-spread numismatic type’ and do not 


1 Supra p. 270 n. 3. 

2 Since this paragraph was penned I find that I have been anticipated in the sugges- 
tion by Seure himself (Kev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 257 n. 4). 

3 Schol. Eur. Or. 964 =schol. Nik. alex. 130 IduBn 5€ ris dovAn THs Meravelpas x.7.d. 

4 Nik. alex. 132 with scholl. ad loc. (cited supra i. 681 n. 4), schol. Eur. Or. 964, 
Prokl. af. Phot. 6262. p. 319 b 17 f. 

5 Et. mag. p- 463, 28 f. 7 dd ris ebpovons yuvacxds Baxxns Tivds, "IduBns kadoumérns. 

6 G. Seure in the Rev. Zt. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 240. 7 Supra p. 743 0. 7. 


822 Zeus Zbelsotirdos 


increase our knowledge of the Thracian god. But the inscriptions? 
contribute other spellings of his name: Zeus Zbelsotirdos*, Zeus 
Zlethotirdos*, the god Zberturdus*. 

The name is presumably a compound. But attempts to fix its 
meaning are precarious. Tomaschek’ thought that the first element 
was akin to the Lithuanian Zaééas, ‘lightning, Zzduryps, ‘light, torch,’ 
etc. and might denote either ‘brilliance’ or ‘lightning. For the 
second he suggested some connexion, near or remote, with the 
Slavonic sver-d-, ‘to twist, to bore.” On this showing we should, 
I suppose, obtain a Thracian equivalent of ¢erpikéraunos’. Baron 
Nopcsa believes that Zibel- 7zurdos lives on in Sn Surah, ‘Saint 
Deaf’ (surdus), whom he describes as the storm-god of the modern 
Albanians’. G. Seure’, with far greater circumspection, argues that 
the original form of the Thracian name was *7Zzdelesotrdos, which 
by a double syncopation became Zbelsotrdos. He finds the same 
first element in Zzbeleizis, a well-attested variant? of the Getic 
Gebeleizis, and urges that *Zzbelesoirdos, Zibeleizis, and Zalméxis 
were three of the epithets attached to the great national god of 
Thrace, a Zeus-like deity whose name is unknown". The second 
element So#rdos he regards as the patronymic of Sodras (Sozrzs, 
Surus, Surio), pointing out that on one of the reliefs already men- 
tioned (fig. 782) the name Sozra may possibly be that of the god”, 
and emending a disputed sentence of Cicero’s accordingly”. 


1 G, Seure in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 242 f. 

? A statue of Domitian erected by a trierarch of the Perinthian fleet was dedicated Aw 
ZBedoovpdw (A. Dumont—T. Homolle /zscriptions et monuments figurés de la Thrace 
Paris 1876 p. 381 no. 72a). But the Ashburnham MS. of Ciriaco de’ Pizzicolli (Cyriacus of 
Ancona), to whom we owe the preservation of this title, reads All ZIBEACOYPAQI 
(Th. Mommsen in the Zphem. epigr. 1877 iii. 236 no. 8). 

3 A votive column, found at Chagrovo near Doubnitza, is inscribed in coarsely cut 
letters AIIZAC|QOYPAQ)| 7& kupiw | BodBaBpilqvol kw\uqrac avéOn\xay (G. Seure in 
the Rev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 242, 247). 

4A Latin dedication, found at Zjubanze near Uskub in Makedonia, reads: [d]eo 
Zb\[er]turd|[o sacr.]|[S]Jex. Fl. F[la]!mina[lis]|[v.] 1. [p.] (Corp. zuscr. Lat. iii no. 8191 
with correction on p. 2250, Dessau Juscr. Lat. sel. no. 4077 with correction 2d. ill. 2 
p- clxxxi). 

5 W. Tomaschek in the Sttzungsber. d. kais. Akad. d. Wiss. in Wien Phil.-hist. 
Classe 1894 cxxx. 11, 60 ff. ® Supra p. 779. 

7 F, Nopesa in the Zeztschrift fiir Ethnologie 1911 xliii. gt8: ‘Sn Surdh ist der 
Gewittergott der heutigen Albaner, Zbel thiurdos ein thrakischer Gott. Die Verehrung 
des Sn Surdh zeigt thrakische Ziige.’ 

8 G. Seure in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 247 ff 

® So codd. A. B. C. (the older, ‘Florentine,’ family) in Hdt. 4. 94. 

10" Supra Ps 227M, 4% 11 See, however, supra p. 276 f. 

12 Sovpa, if nominative, is the dedicator; if genitive, the dedicator’s father; if dative, 
the god to whom the dedication is made. 

B In Cic. zz Pis. 85 a te Iovis Velsuri fanum antiquissimum barbarorum sanctis- 


Zeus ZLbelsotirdos 823 


These tentatives, however, are at best unconvincing. Indeed, 
scientific etymology is hopelessly handicapped by our comparative 
ignorance of the Thracian tongue. But, if the name of the god 
escapes us, his nature does not. Zeus Zde/sotirdos was at once a sky- 
power and an earth-power—witness on the one hand his thunder- 
bolt, on the other his snake. His consort was a goddess perhaps 
akin to Demeter or to Semele. His offspring was /ambadoiles, 
Dionysos in the likeness of the Thracian rider-god*. For further 
knowledge we must be content to wait till Thrace yields up more of 
her buried secrets. 

Thus much I had written, in some despondency, when I re- 
ceived (Jan. 24, 1922) a most encouraging communication from 
Mr B. F. C. Atkinson of Magdalene College, Cambridge. Knowing 
him to have made a special study of things Illyrian, I had challenged 
him to furnish me with a possible derivation of Zbelsoitrdos. 

I append his reply: ‘With regard to the variant form Zzbed- of the 
first part of this compound, it has occurred to me’—he says—‘ that 
we may have here simply the root azv- with suffix -e/-. There is some 
reason to believe that original unaspirated voiced stops became in the 
Thracian and Illyrian dialects spirants ; and it is reasonable to sup- 
pose that ze¢a was the symbol used by the Greeks to represent this 
sound (similar to the initial sound of English te), which did not 
normally occur in most Greek dialects. If this is the explanation 
of the ze¢a used in the Elean dialect in words such as z¢haia, zé (in 
three early inscriptions), where de/ta would be normal, we have a 
parallel use of the sound and of the symbol ze¢a to express it. We 
may compare the much later similar development of de/fa, which is 
a spirant in Modern Greek. As to the suffix -e/-, I suggest that 
Zibel- isa parallel form to /#vz/-as, several times occurring in dedi- 
catory inscriptions in Campania (vd. Conway /éalic Dialects i. 101 ff.). 
The use of deta to express a w- or v-sound is of course compara- 
tively common. 


simumque direptum est Turnebus cj. Zovis [vels] Uri<i>, J. H. Mordtmann in the Rev. 
Arch. 1878 ii. 302 cj. Zovis <S>velsur<d>i; G. Seure in the Rev. Et. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 
243 ff., 249 divides /oves vel Suxi—a restoration more ingenious than probable. 

1 This conception of Dionysos may account for the use of the word pws as applied 
to him in the chant of the Elean women (carm. pop. 5 Hiller—Crusius af. Plout. 
quaestt. Gr. 36 €dOeiv, Hpw Ardvvee, | x.7.d.). My former attempt to re-cast the line (in 
Miss Harrison’s Zhemds Cambridge 1912 p. 205 n. 1 éAGety 7p’, @ Acévuce, | x.T-A.) was, 
I now think, ill-advised. 

Since Dionysos was essentially a younger form of his own father (supra p. 287 ff.), it 
is not surprising to find that the word 7jpws attached to the older god likewise : (1) Corp. 
inscr. Lat. iti no. 7534=Dessau Zuscr. Lat. sel. no. 4063 (Tomoi) I. 0. m. | Heroi | 
Q. Trebellius | Q. f. (F)ab. Maxilmus Roma, | 7 leg. v Mac. | trecenarius | coh. 111 pr. | 

y. s. (2) G. Seure in the Rev. £2. Gr. 1913 xxvi. 239 n. 10 (Pannonia) I. o. m. Heroni. 


824. The whip of Zeus 


This leaves the second half of the compound still to be deter- 
mined?. But it may be observed that it strengthens the conjecture 
[supra p. 277 ff.] that the Thracian form of the name of Zeus was 
*Di(v)-os. 

v. The whip of Zeus. 


Dr Rendel Harris in a brief but important chapter? collects 
evidence from China, India, and Wallachia of lightning conceived 
as a whip. He holds that the same conception has left traces of 
itself in Greek mythology, but does not quote some definite state- 
ments, which might be adduced from Greek authors. 

Kapaneus, when attacking the Electran gate of Thebes, defied 
Zeus and compared his lightning to mere midday heat*. Thereupon 
Zeus struck him down with a thunderbolt. The incident was 
notorious; but Lykophron‘ the pedant adds interest to it by 
describing Kapaneus as lashed with a lightning-whip: 


The third® is son of him who undermined 
With his rude mattock the Ectenian® towers. 
The Thunderer’, Adviser’, God of Mills®, 


1 Mr Atkinson subsequently supplied me with a ‘ Further Note on ZBedootipdos. 
The second part of the compound presents greater difficulty owing to the variant readings. 
It is hard to resist the conclusion that the sound represented now by go, now by 8, is the 
unvoiced dental spirant. The t which is supposed by some to be present after the @ is, 
I understand, a doubtful factor. Seure (Revue des Etudes Grecques, 1913 p. 247) rejects it, 

_ and thus simplifies matters, making the form a variant between -coupdos and -@oupédos. 
If the initial sound is the unvoiced dental spirant, the form may well be connected with 
the root appearing in Sanskrit as </¢7d, trnatti, which is commonly used of Indra 
‘‘splitting” or ‘‘cleaving” with his bolt (e.g. vajrena khany atrnan nadinam = ‘‘with his 
bolt he split open the clefts of the waters,’ RV 11. 15). The root ¢7@ is commonly sup- 
posed to be an extension of the root /7, I-E. *,/¢er, seen in Greek relpw, rope, Lat. Zero, 
terebva, etc. The Thracian change of ¢ to p, though not resting upon any established or 
tested sound-law, is not inconsistent with other evidence, scanty as it is, and we may 
compare the similar change in Avestan especially under the influence of a liquid. If this 
etymology is well-founded, we thus have as the meaning of the whole compound ‘‘ Zeus,” 
or ‘‘the son of Zeus, the Splitter” (referring of course to the thunderbolt).’ 

2 J. Rendel Harris Prcas who ts also Zeus Cambridge 1916 p. 57 ff., cp. 26. p. 55. 

3 Aisch. s.c. Th. 422 ff. 

4 Lyk. Ad 433 ff. tplrov dé, rod uboowas Exrivwv more | oreppa duxéhXn Bovoxagy- 
cavros yévor, | dv Voyyuvdarns eike Boudatos Mundevs, | ayn\aTw mdorerye cvvOpavoas Kapa, | 
juos Evvaiwous marpds ai Nuxrods xdpar| mpds atropdyrny arpivov wrdicay pdpov. The 
version printed above is by G. W. Mooney. 

° Sthenelos, son of Kapaneus. 

6 The “Exrnves were the first inhabitants of Thebes, their king Ogygos being auto- 
chthonous (Paus. g. 5. 1). 

7 Mooney follows C. von Holzinger, who on the strength of Hesych. yoyyuAet 
(C. G. Cobet cj. yoyyi\rew)* cvorpépew (M. Schmidt cj. cvorpévecv) translates ‘ Blitze- 
schleuderer.’ Tzetz. ad loc. says 6 Zevs 6 Toyyudarns, de’ ot ai yoyyt\a kal cuverprypévat 
xetpes KwvodvTar—a desperate guess. In all probability (supra p. 260) ToyyuvAarns was 
a local appellative from * I'oyyiAy, the ‘ Round’ Rock or Island (cp. =zpoyyty = Stromboli), 
a site as yet unidentified. 8 Supra p. 258 n. 3. 9 Supra p. 260 sub fin. 


The whip of Zeus 825 


Crushed in his head with his avenging scourge, 

What time Night’s daughters! armed with fell desire 

The father’s brothers?” to shed brother’s blood. 
The scholiast?, commenting on Lykophron’s word ‘scourge,’ re- 
marks simply: ‘he means “with his thunderbolt.” ’ 

Oppian? (¢. 170 A.D.) describes a storm at sea in similar terms: 

Beneath the scourge of Zeus etherial fire 
Strikes the sea-farer’s keel, and the burning stroke 
Devours it, while the sea blent with dread flames 
Still higher tosses and still onward drives. 
Again the scholiast® observes: ‘“ scourge,” that is, “thunderbolt.”’ 

Now learned poets of the Hellenistic age would hardly have 
ventured upon such a locution, unless they had (or fancied they 
had) some warrant for it in earlier Hellenic poetry. Accordingly 
we find Hesychios noting the Homeric phrase ‘by the scourge of 
Zeus’ and carefully explaining that this means ‘by the thunder- 
bolt®’ Unfortunately his explanation is wrong. The phrase occurs 
twice in the //zad, and in neither passage is there the least allusion 
to a thunderstorm’. The fact is, Homer’s language was already 
old, and this particular expression even in his day had lost much of 
its original force. ‘The scourge of Zeus, scholiasts* and lexico- 
graphers® notwithstanding, was the merest metaphor for the driving 
power of the god. For all that, the phrase must have arisen at a 
time (?Early Iron Age) and in a place (? Thessaly) when and 
where Zeus was conceived as the driver of a celestial chariot. His 
cracking whip made the lightning; his echoing wheels, the thunder. 
Salmoneus, who during the Early Iron Age came from Thessaly to 
Elis”, was an adept at the self-same art. 

A vague remembrance of Zeus the charioteer with his lightning- 
lash clings about the tradition of his primeval contests. In repre- 
sentations of the Gigantomachy we frequently see him fulminant 
on a four-horse chariot". More than that, his lightning-lash was not 


1 The Furies. 
2 Eteokles and Polyneikes, both sons and brothers of Oidipous. 

3 Schol. Lyk. A/. 433=et. mag. p. 10, 2 Néyer b€ TO Kepavyy. 

+ Opp. de pisc. 5. 282 ff. ds b€ Avds udoriye AaBy Tpbrw aldépov wip | K.T.d. 

5 Schol. Opp. de fisc. 5. 282 paoriys* Kepauvds. 

6 Hesych. s.v. Avds mdorvye” TQ kepauv@. 

7 72. 12. 37f. ’Apyetor dé Acvds pacrtiys Sapévres | vnvoiv ere yNadupyow éedpuévor 
loxavowvTo, 13. 811 f. ob Toi Te watxns ddanuoves eluev, | GANA Ards udoriye KaKy eddunuer 
> Axarol. 

8 Schol. A. D. Z/. 12. 37 Acds 6 udorié 6 Kepavvds, schol. T. 2b. rw Kepavvy. 

® Hesych. Joc. cit. J. Alberti ad oc. cites ‘Gloss. Rutgers. Maorcé. xepavvds.’ 

10 Apollod. r. 9. 7, cp. Strab. 356. 
ll Fg. supra p. 82 fig. 44, p. 84 fig. 46, p. 778 fig. 741. 


826 The whip of Zeus 


forgotten by poets who told of his fight with Typhoeus. Homer? 
himself works it into the szzz/e with which he concludes the list of 
the Greek combatants before Troy: 


They marched as though the land were all devoured 
With fire. Earth groaned beneath them as when Zeus 
In anger twists his bolt and plies his lash 

About Typhoeus—him who lies abed 

(Men say) i’ the land of Arima, Even so 

Beneath their feet, as on they came, earth groaned, 
And speedily they passed across the plain. 


Hesiod’, relating the same myth, is even more explicit: 


Zeus armed his might and all his weapons took, 
Thunder and lightning and fierce levin-bolt, 

Sprang from Olympos, struck, and blasted all 

The wondrous heads of the monster. He at length 
Laid low by strokes of the lash fainted and fell 

Maimed of his power, and monstrous earth made moan. 


This old belief in the whip of the lightning-god accounts for a 
curious dedication in the precinct of Zeus Mazos. According to 
Aristotle*, there was at Dodona a couple of columns, which sup- 
ported respectively a caldron (/édes) and a boy (faizs) grasping a 
whip. The bronze lashes of the whip, when swayed by the wind, 
struck the caldron and produced a reverberant sound. Strabon+4, 
probably following Apollodoros®, adds that the whip was dedicated 
‘by the Corcyraeans, that it consisted of three chains tipped with 
buttons, and that you could count four hundred before the echo died 
away. Now Sir James Frazer has conjectured that the Dodonaean 
gong was ‘meant to mimick the thunder that might so often be 
heard rolling and rumbling in the coombs of the stern and barren 
mountains which shut in the gloomy valley®’ If so, the Corcyraean 
whip, which lashed its silence into sound, was an equally vivid and 
appropriate emblem of the lightning. 


1 Zl. 2. 780 ff. 

2 Hes. ¢heog. 853 ff. Nonnos on the same theme repeats the metaphor ad nauseant 
(Dion. 2. 533, 535) 541, 548): 

3 Aristot. af. Souid. s.v. Awdwvatov xadxetov, Apostol. 6. 43, cod. Coislin. 177, 
Eustath. zz Od. p. 1760, 58 ff. I have quoted and-discussed these passages in the Journ. 
Ffell. Stud. 1902 xxii. 8 f., adding (2b. p. 12) a conjectural restoration of the famous gong. 

4 Strab. 4b. 7 frag. 3. 

> See Journ. Hell. Stud. 1902 xxii. 12. 

6 Frazer Golden Bough®: The Magic Art ii. 358f. Sir James Frazer’s further con- 
jecture (7d. p. 358 n. 4) that ‘the bronze statuette... would represent Zeus himself making 
his thunder’ would have to meet the objection that the said statuette is described as zrais, 
matddpiov, or at most veavias (see the passages adduced in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1902 
xxii. 8f.). But cp. the Zeus Iavs of Aigion (sfra p. 742f.). 


Thunder as a sound independent of Zeus 827 


$4. Zeus and the Thunder. 
(a) Thunder as a sound independent of Zeus. 


Thunder was sometimes, perhaps originally!, venerated as 
an independent phenomenon, not connected, or at least not ex- 
pressly connected, with the name of Zeus. Thus at Bathos in 
Arkadia, where—according to local tradition—the battle of the 
gods and giants took place, sacrifices were offered to Lightnings, 
Storms, and Thunders®. Similarly the writer of the proém to the 
Orphic Hymns addresses his prayer to ‘Winds, Thunders, and 
parts of the four-pillared World®’ 

This conception of Lightnings and Thunders as Augenblicksgotter 
has left a trace of itself in a custom common to both Greeks and 
Romans. When a lightning-flash was seen, folk at once made a 
loud smacking noise with their lips} Why? Pliny seems to have 
thought that the worshipper was thus, so to speak, blowing a kiss 
to his god: ‘the nations by common consent,’ he says, ‘adore the 
Lightnings with smacking sounds®.’ More probably the sounds in 
question were prophylactic® and meant to avert the danger of being 
struck by the lightning’. To the same primitive stage of formless 
fear belongs one of the strange taboos* by which the wife of the 


1 So H. Usener in the Rhezn. Mus. 1905 |x. 13 (=2d. Kleine Schriften Leipzig—Berlin 
1913 iv. 482). See further sugva p. 13 n. I. 

2 Paus. 8. 29. 1 QUovow ’Aotpamais avroo kal OvéAdats Te Kal Bpovrats with the notes 
of Sir J. G. Frazer, H. Hitzig and H. Bliimner. A. G. Bather and V. W. Yorke in the 
Journ. Fell. Stud. 1892—3 xiii. 231 attribute the localisation of the Gigantomachy to the 
prevalence of earthquakes, the existence of an intermittent spring, the frequent firing of 
peat-fields, and the finding of mammoth-bones. 

3 Orph. edx} mpos Movoaior 38 f. (quoted supra p. 141 Nn. I). 

4 Aristoph. vesp. 626 Kav dorpdyw, rommifovow with schol. os yap rats aorparats 
mommugew. mapa dé Ta elwhdra NéyecOar UTd Tov dvOpwTwy él Tov bTEepBaddovTos PbBov 
éyet, Ore Bpovtai Kai aorparal yivovrat, walfwr. 

5 Plin. zat. hist. 28. 25 fulgetras poppysmis adorare consensus gentium est. So C. 
Sittl Dze Gebarden der Griechen und Réimer Leipzig 1890 p. 185 interprets the action as 
ablandishment: ‘ Der Blitz, meint man, fiihlt sich geschmeichelt, wenn der Mensch, statt 
zu erschrecken, sein Wohlgefallen ausdriickt.’ 

6 C. Wessely Griechische Zauberpapyrus von Paris und London Wien 1888 p. 35 pap. 
Par. 561 f. érevra ctpicov paxpdv o o, erecta wémmvooy héywr K.T.r., 2a. Neue griechische 
Zauberpapyri Wien 1893 p. 48 pap. 121. 833 ff. mommvopuds, orevayuds, cupiyuds, K.T.A., 
alib, Cp. C. O. Thulin Die etruskische Disciplin i Die Blitzlehre Goteborg 1906 p. 125. 

7 E. Riess in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc.i. 42 f. (on the strength of Aristot. aval. fost. 
2. 11. 94b 32 ff. Garep ef Bpovra dmoaBevvuuevov Te ToD Tupds avdyKy cifew Kal Popelv, kal 
ei ws of IvOaydperot macw dreds evexa Tots ev TH Taprdpw, drws PoBovrac and Jambl. v. 
Pyth. 156 drav 6€ Bpovrnon, THs yas avacOa mapyyyeAde) supposes that a thunderstorm 
was regarded as a repetition of the Titanomachy and that men could help the gods to win 
by these apotropaeic noises. 

8 Frazer Golden Bough*: Taboo p. 14. 


828 Thunder as a sound independent of Zeus 


flamen Dialis was bound. If she chanced to hear a peal of thunder, 
she was incapacitated for duty till she had pacified the gods’. 

But Thunder and Lightning early developed into Sondergotter. 
At first, as we might have anticipated, they took shape as divine 
animals. For, not only does Hesiod make Pegasos the bearer of 
thunder and lightning*, but Eumelos (s. viii B.C.), using the self-same 
words, calls two of the sun’s horses Lronte, ‘Thunder, and Szerope, 
‘ Lightning*.’ Already, however, in Hesiod’s time this theriomorphic 
conception was giving way before the ubiquitous advance of anthropo- 
morphism. The Zheogony speaks of ‘Brontes and Steropes and 
strong-souled Arges’ as Kyklopes resembling the gods in all points, 
except for the single eye set in their forehead‘. Even this xon- 
human trait disappeared in due course. Pliny says of Apelles: ‘He 
painted the unpaintable too—thunders, lightnings, and thunderbolts, 
Bronte, Astrape, and Ceraunobolia,as they are called®.’ The reference 
here is certainly® to allegorical female figures such as those introduced 
by Philostratos into his picture of Semele—‘stern-looking Thunder 
and Lightning with flashing eyes’. Finally these daemonic personi- 
fications are transformed into angels, or at least controlled by 
angelic powers. Ioannes of Gaza (¢. 536 A.D.)* in his description 
of the cosmic picture, which adorned the Winter Bath of that town, 
represents Bronte and Sterope surrounded by clouds®, Bronte has 
her hands held behind her by an angel; Sterope, hurling her flash, 
‘is directed by another angel—an ingenious way of suggesting that 
we see the lightning before we hear the thunder”. 

The lively imagination that inspired such figures is not yet 
extinct. A folk-song well known throughout Greek lands" involves 
the following plot. A Dragon (Drdékontas) threatens to devour a 
young man. But his victim’s lover by claiming to be the daughter 
of Lightning and Thunder so scares the Dragon” that he lets the 
young man go free. Similarly in a song from Epeiros a Lamia, 
disguised as a woman, begs a widow's son to recover her ring, 


1 Macrob. Sat. 1. 16. 8. 

2 Hes. theog. 285 f. Supra pp. 716, 721, zwfra Append. F sub fin. 
3 SUPT i332 Fees 

4 Hes. c¢heog. 139 ff. Supra i. 303 n. 2, 312 N. I, 314, 317 f. 


> Plin. zat. hist. 35. 96. 6 ©. Hofer in Roscher Lex. Myth. iv. 1503. 
7 Philostr. mai. zmagg. 1. 14. I (supra p. 28). 
8 Thiele in Pauly—Wissowa Rea/-Enc. ix. 1747. 9 Io. Gaz. 2. 160 ff. 


10 P, Friedlander Johannes von Gaza und Paulus Silentiarius Leipzig—Berlin 1912 
p- 202. Jd. 2b. pl. 1 gives a reconstruction of the wall-painting. 

1 N. G. Polites Anuddes werewpodoyixol w00o (extract from ILapyaccdés) Athens 1880 
p- 9 f. quotes variants from Kypros, Crete, the mainland of Greece, and Korkyra. 

12 Since it is a long-standing belief that snakes are chased by the lightning (supra i. 
183, ii. 820). 


Thunder as a sound uttered by Zeus 829 


which has dropped inside a willow-tree, all blackened by lightning. 


She lowers him into the hollow trunk, where he finds nothing but 
snakes, and refuses to draw him up: 


‘“ Now thou art in, my pretty youth, forth shalt thou come, ah, never ! 
For I’m the Lamia of the Sea, devourer of the Heroes !” 
“And I, I am the Lightning’s Son, I’ll lighten, and will burn thee !” 
She of the Lightning was afraid, and up again she drew him?!’ 
Even more suggestive of a Sonxdergott is the question put to 
Mr J. C. Lawson by an aged crone, who was rain-making on the 
edge of the cliff in Thera (Saztorinz). She knew ‘the god above 
and the god below,’ but ‘One thing she could not make out—who 
was the god that caused the thunder; did I know???’ 


(0) Thunder as a sound uttered by Zeus. 


Usually, however, thunder was brought into some direct con- 
nexion with Zeus. The modern mind, steeped in Semitic thought’, 
readily conceives thunder as the voice of God*. But this was not a 
classical conception. Thunder was at most an ominous sound pre- 
ceding divine speech. Thus, when Oidipous the aged wanderer 
of the Sophoclean play is about to be translated, Zeus Chthénios 
thunders ; after which there is silence for a while, and then the god 
cries in ringing tones: ; 

Oidipous, Oidipous, why tarry we 
To go? Too long already they delay®! 


Phaedrus also, describing a scene on the Roman stage, says: 


The curtain dropped, the thunder was rolled down, 
And the gods spoke as they are wont to speak ®, 


But, though the Greeks of the classical age did not regard thunder 
as the articulate voice of Zeus, they thought of it sometimes in a 


more homely fashion as an inarticulate sound proceeding from his 
body’. 


1 L. M. J. Garnett—J. S. Stuart-Glennie Greek Folk Poesy London 18696 i. 103 ff. (from 
G. Ch. Chasiotes DvA\oyn ray Kata Tiv “Hrerpoy SnuotixkGv goudrwy ‘Athens 1866 
p. 137f.). Cp. N. G. Polites doc. czt. p. 10. 

2 J. C. Lawson Modern Greek Folklore and Ancient Greek Religion Cambridge 1g10 
p- 49f. 

2 Job 37-5 ‘God thundereth marvellously with his voice’ (cp. 76. 37. 4, 40. 9, Ps. 77. 18, 
104. 7, John 12. 29, Rev. ro. 3f., 14. 2, 19. 6). E. B. Tylor Prémitive Culture* London 
1891 ii. 264: ‘Among certain Moslem schismatics, it is even the historical Ali, cousin of 
Mohammed, who is enthroned in the clouds, where the thunder is his voice,’ etc. 

1 E.g. R. Browning An Epistle sub fin. :. ‘So, through the thunder comes a human 
voice,’ F. W. H. Myers Saint Paul London 1887 p. 41 ‘ Lo if some strange intelligible 
thunder | Sang to the earth the secret of a star.’ 

5 Soph. O. C. 1604 ff. 6 Phaedr.s- 7-023 1: 

7 See the conversation between Strepsiades and Sokrates in Aristoph. 2wd. 382 ff., 
which is probably based upon folk-belief (cp. Strab. 675, Sen. mat. guaestt. 5. 4. 2). 


830 Thunder as a sound 


(c) Thunder as a sound caused by the Chariot of Zeus. 


According to another popular belief, thunder was the noise made 
by the chariot of Zeus as it rattled across the sky. Of this concep- 
tion there is no certain trace in epic verse’. But Pindar began one 
of his lost poems with the words : 


‘Thunder-driving son of Rhea”? 


On which Hesychios comments: ‘ The thunder is thought to be the 
chariot of Zeus*”’ A second Pindaric exordium was as follows: 


‘Driver on high of the tireless-footed thunder, 
Zeus,’ etc.4. 


Hereupon one scholiast remarks: ‘Recent writers assign the thunder 
to Zeus as his chariot and say “O Zeus the Charioteer.”’ Another: 
‘Pindar takes the thunder to be the horse of Zeus, and so calls it 
“tireless-footed.”’ A third: ‘Recent writers after a manner of their 
own hold the thunder to be the chariot and horse of Zeus®.’ The 
reference to recent writers is meant to include such poets as 
Horace®. But we can hardly doubt that the Thunderer’s chariot was 
genuinely Greek. For, not only does it occur elsewhere in literature” 


1 Zeus in the Z/iad has his ‘ well-wheeled chariot and horses’ (supra i. 338 n. 1, where 
—as Mr C. T. Seltman points out to me—I should have noted //. 8. 41 ff. rather than Z/. 
8. 438 ff. as the earliest allusion) ; but they are not said to cause thunder. 

“Yyigvyos, an epic epithet of Zeus (Z/. 4. 166, 7. 69, 11. 544, 18. 185, Hes. o. d. 18, 
Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 2. 373. 1), might conceivably be rendered ‘ who driveth his 
team aloft’ (though it would describe horse or chariot more naturally than driver) and 
viewed as a virtual equivalent of byuBpeuérns, ‘ who thundereth aloft’ (Z/. 1. 354, 12. 68, 
14. 54, 16. 121, Od. 5. 4, 23. 331, 2. Herm. 329, Hes. 0. d. 8, theog. 568, 601, Aristoph. 
Lys. 773, Orph. Avg. 1278, Cougny Anth. Pal. Append. 6. 95. 3, 6. 210. 2, Tzetz. alleg. 
Od. 5. 75: cp. Orph. h. Ker. 19. 1, where J. Pierson cj. bYiBpouwoy for vWidpouov). But 
bifvyos is traditionally taken to mean ‘ who sitteth aloft’ (H. Ebeling Lexzcon Homeri- 
cum Lipsiae 1880 ii. 396)—an epithet appropriate to a steersman (Noumenios af. 
Euseb. praep. ev. 11. 18. 24, Euseb. de laud. Const. to p. 223, 12 f. Heikel), which may 
well have descended to Homer from the days of the ‘ Minoan’ thalassocracy. 

* Pind. frag. 144 Schréder ap. Souid. s.v. édaciBpovr’ avappnyvis éryn (=schol. 
Aristoph. eg. 624) ‘‘ €NaciBpovra mat ‘Péas.”’ 

3° Hesych. s.v. éXaclBpovra:...érel doxet dxnua Tod Ads 7) BpovT7 iva. 

4 Pind. O2. 4. rf. €Xarnp bréprare Bpovras axauavTorodos | Led. 

® Schol. Pind. OF. 4. 17,0 2,.na- 

6 Hor. od. 1. 34. 5ff. Diespiter | ...per purum tonantis | egit equos volucremque 
currum (cp. 76. 1. 12. 58 ff.) with Porphyrion ad oc. dicuntur tonitrua strepitus esse currus 
et quadrigarum Iovis. 

7 Eur. 4. f. 177 ff. Ads xepavvdy 8 jpdunv réOpimmd te, | év ois BeBnKws rotor vis 
Braorjpace | Viyacr, wevpots mri’ évapudoas Bédy, | Tov KadNiiKoy weTa Oedv Exduace, 
Bellerophontes frag. 312 Nauck? i’ dpuar’ édOdv Znvos dorpamnpopel (sc. Pegasos: supra 
p- 828 n. 2), Quint. Smyrn. 12. 189 ff. Atds 5’ éwi relpact yains | ob AdBov 7d vonua* NuToY 
& dpap wxeavoto | xevuar’ és odpavov evpiv avie: Tov 5€ pépecxov | Edpos xal Bopéns, Zépupos 
& emi rotor Noros re: | robs 5° bad Bearéotov <vyov alddos Hyaryev “Ipus | apuaros alev édvTos, 
6 of Kduev duBporos Aliw | xepoly im’ dxauarnow areipéos €F ddduavTos k.T.\., Nonn. Dion. 
2. 420 ff. emarylfwv 5é Ovéhraus | ajepobev mepdpynro werapacos alyloxos Levs, | Efouevos wrepo- 





Plate XXXVII 








Terra-cotta group from Gnathia, now in the British Museum : 
Zeus in a four-horse chariot. 
See page 831 m. I. 


caused by the Chariot of Zeus 831 


and art’, but it enters into ritual and mythology of long 
standing. 


The inhabitants of Krannon in Thessaly kept as a sacred object 


evrt Xpovou rerpatuy: digpy- | txmo. 6é Kpoviwvos ouctvyes joav aqra. | xal xa wer creporgot 
kopiccero, ~G 6€ Kepauyg, | Gddore GE Bpovrgow éxéxpacr, GdXore 3 SuSpww | rryrvuérns 
Wpoxéwy xerpovpeva vara yahatns | 6uSpnpois Bedéecat, cp. 2b. 36. 422 f. xal tore rerpawép- 
ovo Xpovou orpogadryya xvdivéwv, | ixweiwy Eros Exrov, diccero kauxidos Alév... M. Mayer 
in Roscher Lex. Myth. ii. 1496f. justly notes the Orphic colouring of the passages from 
Nonnos and compares Eur. frag. 943 Nauck? af. Macrob. Sat. 1. 17. 59 xupeyers 5€ 
Spaxwy ob6y iyyetras [rats] rerpayspgos | Gpas Cevyris dpyovia rodtxaproy Gxnua. See also 
supra i. 337 f., and cp. the place“Apua on Mt Parnes (Append. B Attike). 

1 Throughout the whole range of classical art Zeus (Iupiter) is often represented in— 
sometimes, beside—his chariot, grasping or hurling a thunderbolt. The scene is usually, 
but not always, a Gigantomachy. I append a few examples: 

(t) Gems (Reinach Pierres Gravées p. 5 no. 13 pl. 3, Furtwangler Ant. Gemmen i pl. 
18, 6 (=my fig. 760), ii. 87; i pl. 57, 2 (=my fig. 44), ii. 259, td. Geschnitt. Steine Berlin 
Pp- 229 no. 6255 pl. 43, Brit. Mus. Cat. Gems p. 92 no. 591 (infra § g (c)))- 

(2) Coins (Rasche Zex. Num. iv. 1196 f., Suppl. iii. 266 f., Overbeck Gr. Kunstmyth. 
Zeus p- 387 f. Miinztaf. 5, of., Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins 
Italy pp. 67 Aesernia, 74 Atella, 81 Capua, 331 f. 
Bruttii, Hunter Cat. Coins i. 22 Aesernia, 26 Atella, 
125 Bruttii pl 9, 6, Head Hist. num-* pp. 27, 31, 33f., 
Babelon Monn. rép. rom. ii. 636 and 634 Index s.zz. 
‘Jupiter,’ ‘ Quadrige.’ I give (fig. 787) an autonomous 
copper of Capua after Garrucci Mon. Jt. Ant. p. 89 
pl. 87, 7. The finest numismatic types are, however, 
those of the Roman medallions: Brit. Mus. Cat. 
Medallions p. 1% no. 24 pl. 15, 1 Antoninus Pius, 
Frohner Aféd. emp. rom. p. 68 fig. Antoninus Pius, 
p- 157 fig. Septimius Severus, Kubitschek Rim. Me- 
daillons Wien p. 5 no. 36 pl. 3 Antoninus Pius, Gnecchi 
Medagl. Rom. i. 43 no. 1 pl. 22, 2 Septimius Severus, 
ii. 10 no. 12 pl. 43, 10 Antoninus Pius, ii. 14f. no. 49 pl. 49, 1 Antoninus Pius, ii. 28 
no. 11 pl. 60, 1 M. Aurelius). . 

(3) Vases (Furtwangler—Reichhold Gr. Vasenmalerei i. 4 pl. 1—2 the ‘Francois’- 
vase, ii. 194 pl. 96 a red-figured amphora in the Louvre, Lenormant—de Witte £/. mon. 
cér.i. 27 pl. 13 a red-figured amphora from the Hamilton collection= Reinach R49. Vases 
ii. 287, 1, cp. H. B. Walters History of Ancient Pottery London 1905 ii. 18, 188). 

(4) Reliefs ( Fouilles de Delphes iv pl. 13—14, 2, col. pl. 21 —23, 1, Perrot—Chipiez Hs. 
dz [ Art viii. 374 fig. 175, F- Poulsen Delphi trans. G. C. Richards London 1920 p. 136f. 
fig. 55 north frieze of the Siphnian Treasury ; Die Séulpturen des Pergamon-Museums in 
Photographien Berlin 1903 pls. 14, 15, Pergamon iii. 2. 48 ff. Atlas pl. rof.). 

A Hellenistic group in terra cotta, found at Gnathia (7asazo) in Apulia and bequeathed 
by Sir W. Temple to the national collection, is described as follows by H. B. Walters (Brit. 
Mus. Cat. Terracottas p. 324 no. D157. My pl. xxxvii is from a photograph by Mr R. B. 
Fleming): ‘Zeus in four-horse chariot, on a large plinth. His figure is visible as far as 
the knees; his head is inclined to his L, r. hand extended with open palm, and in L. he 
holds up an apple (?). He has a thick straight beard and curly hair with laurel-wreath ; 
drapery is twisted round his waist and 1. arm, covering the L leg. The body of the chariot 
is represented by a high narrow box on a base, with an arched railing round the front and 
sides ; the horses together with the pole and yoke of the chariot are much restored, as are 
the wheels of the chariot, from the axles of which project lions’ heads. Ht. of Zeus (with 
base), 113 in... Back of Zeus slightly modelled.’ 





832 Thunder caused by the Chariot of Zeus 


a bronze car. In time of drought they shook this car and prayed 
the god for rain. The pardsemon or ‘badge’ of their city showed 
two ravens perched on the car; and enquirers were told that two 
ravens, never more than two, were to be seen at Krannon. Theo- 
pompos stated that these two stayed till they had chicks, and then 
left’. Ktesias told a similar tale about Ekbatana®. And Myrsilos of 
Methymna said that on Lepetymnos, a mountain of Lesbos, there 
was a temple of Apollon and a shrine of the eponymous hero 
Lepetymnos, on which again two ravens perched and no more’. 





Fig. 791. Fig. 792. 
All this is duly related by Antigonos of Karystos, a paradoxo- 
_grapher of s. iii B.C.; and his account is confirmed by the fourth- 
century coinage of Krannon. Bronze coins of that town have for 
their reverse type an amphora resting on a car (fig. 788). Some 
specimens show a raven seated on the right-hand wheel (figs. 7839— 
791); others, a pair of ravens on the two wheels (fig. 792)®. A. Furt- 
wangler made it probable that the ravens were believed to bring 
rain from the sky’, and that water was spilt from the amphora as a 


1 Theopomp. frag. 85 (Frag. hist. Gr. i. 292 Miiller) ap. Antig. Karyst. A2s¢. mir. 15. 

2 Ktes. ag. Antig. Karyst. ist. mir. 15. 

3 Myrs. Methymn. frag. 9 (Frag. hist. Gr. iv. 459 Miiller) af. Antig. Karyst. 7st. 
mir. 15. 

1 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 16 pl. 2, 13. Fig. 788 is from a specimen in 
my collection. 

5 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 16 nos. 3 and 4, Furtwangler Masterpieces of 
Gk. Sculpt. p. 469 n. 7. Fig. 789=W. M. Leake Mumismata Hellenica London 1856 
European Greece p. 43; fig. 790=20. Fig. 791 is from the McClean collection. 

6 Furtwangler of. cit. p. 469 fig. 186. My fig. 792=W. M. Leake of. cit. European 
Greece p. 43 (wrongly described) KPANNOYNIOYN. 

7 He refers to Ail. de nat. an. 1. 47 (Apollon sent the raven to get water. He found 
a green cornfield and, wishing to eat the grain, waited till it grew dry, thereby forgetting 
his errand. Hence he is punished by thirst in the summer, and proclaims his punishment 
by croaking), pseudo-Eratosth. ca¢ast. 41 (When the gods were sacrificing, the raven was 
sent to get water for a libation from a fountain. He saw beside it a fig-tree and waited for 


Zeus Brontaios, Brontin, Brontésios 833 


raincharm?. Sir J.G. Frazer added that the rattling of the car was 
probably meant to imitate thunder®. We are not indeed told that 
this was the car of Zeus: but, since Zeus was the Greek rain-god’, 
that is a legitimate assumption; he appears, moreover, on later 
coins of Krannon* 

A similar imitation of the thunders of Zeus by means of a 
rattling chariot is found in the myth of Salmoneus, who likewise 
hailed from Thessaly’. 

Lastly, it will be remembered that the Thracian: Zeus Zbe/sotirdos 
was at once a thunder-god and a charioteer (fig. 785)° 


(zZ) Zeus Brontaios, Bronton, Brontésios. 


Zeus Brontatos, the god ‘of Thunder,’ figures in late literature’ 
and twice at least on monuments of the Kyzikos district. A marble 
stéle from Mihallitch, preserved at Constantinople’, is decorated with 
a relief of s. ii or iii A.D. (fig. 793)°. It shows Zeus standing on a 
broad pedestal, with a thunderbolt in his raised right hand, a sceptre 
in his lowered left, and an eagle at his feet. Near him, on a smaller 


the figs to ripen. Then, realising his fault, he caught the water-snake of the fountain, 
brought it along with the bowl, and explained that the snake daily drank the water of the 
fountain. Apollon punished him with thirst, as is stated by Aristotle [ frag. 329 Rose] and 
Archelaos in his ’Iécopv#) [A similar account is given by schol. Arat. p/aez. 449, schol. 
Caes. Germ. Avazea p. 419, 15 ff. Eyssenhardt, Ov. fast. 2. 243 ff., Hyg. poet. astr. 2. 40, 
Myth. Vat. 1. 115], Cramer anecd. Paris. i. 25, 20 ff.=Dionysios epi dpyi0wy (When 
Koronis was bearing Asklepios at Trikke, the raven was told to bring water. Instead of 
that, he indulged in lust. Apollon in anger turned him black and so shaped his crop that 
he cannot bring water to his chicks) [Cp. Hyg. fad. 202, poet. astr. 2. 40, Myth. Vat. 1. 
115, 2. 22, 2.. 128). 

On the raven as a weather-prophet in antiquity see supra p. 518 n. 4. 

1 Furtwangler Masterpieces of Gk. Sculpt. p. 471 suggests the same use for the prob- 
lematic Kesselwagen or ‘ caldron-chariots’ of the late Bronze Age and the Early Iron Age. 
These are bowls mounted on carriages of four wheels apiece and frequently decorated with 
birds or birds’ heads. For examples and bibliography see J. Schlemm Worterbuch zur 
Vorgeschichte Berlin 1908 pp. 282—286. Cp. also R. Kittel Studien zur hebraischen 
Archiologie und Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1908 pp. 189—242 (‘ Die Kesselwagen des 
salomonischen Tempels ’—an interesting discussion leading up to the conclusion: ‘Sie 
sind die Symbole der regenspendenden Gottheit’), J. Déchelette Manuel @archéologie 
préhistorique Paris 1910 ii. 1. 284 ff. fig. 107, 442 ff. fig. 183. 


2 Frazer Golden Bough*®: The Magic Art i. 309. 3 Infra § 9. 
4 Brit. Mus. Cat. Coins Thessaly etc. p. 17 pl. 2, 14, Head Hest. mum.” P- 294. 
° Infra Append. L sué fin. ° Supra p. 820. 


7 Aristot. de mundo 7. 401a 17, Orph. 2. Zeus 15.9. Cp. Athena Bedovixn daughter 
of Bpovratos (Eudok. viol. 355), Athena Bedevixn daughter of Bpovraios (Favorin. dex. 
p- 750, 19 f.), Athena Badevixyn daughter of Bpovréas (Tzetz. én Lyk. Ad. 111). ; 

8 A. Joubin Musée impérial ottoman: Catalogue des sculptures grecques, romaines, 
byzantines et franques Constantinople 1893 no. 126, G. Mendel A/usées Impériaux Otto- 
mans: Catalogue des sculptures grecques, romaines et byzantines Constantinople iii (‘ sous 
presse’). 

9 Lebas—Reinach Voyage Arch. p. 115 pl. 133, 2 (=my fig. 793)- 

Cit, 53 


834 Zeus Brontaios, Brontin, Brontésios 


pedestal, is a terminal Hermes, with a caduceus over his right 
shoulder!. Between the two deities appears a flaming altar. And 
below is the figure of a man lying prone on his face. The inscription 


)) wag 
Dig 


‘ 0 
tly ‘ Sai 
(Vy in 


f 
NE 







Dp. 
































i ii 


= she | 






























ue 


\ Niet CENT PROOC AI” | 
aN FEM-IE. TOK ATERIT A B ih 
= r HNEKTO HE Baa 
; f € OLA, N COHKEN Ni 


t 
iy 
i 


foes BPO ON TAI arte Pete Weare | 





































- Fig. 793. 


underneath runs : ‘ Tiberius Claudius Syntrophus to Zeus Hy/pszstos, 
bidden (by the god), at his own cost dedicated (this), to Brontaios*. 
1 This detail is omitted in the drawing by E. Landron here reproduced. 


2 T.Bépos Kdavdcos | Ldvtpopos Ad | ‘Tyiorw kar’ émralyhy éx TO(v) ldé\w[v] avéOnker | 
Bpovralw (Lebas—Waddington Aste Mineure ili no. 1099, J. Schmidt in the 47h. Mitth. 


Zeus Brontaios, Brontin, Brontésios 835 


Perhaps Syntrophus, like Pythagoras’, had been ‘ purified with the 
thunder-stone’ and ‘lying prone’ in the appointed place had been 
warned to erect this monument to Zeus Ayjpsistos Brontatos. 
Another marble s¢ée, found between Tchakyrdja and Hadji Paon, 
represents in relief an altar, the sacrifice of a bull, and four worship- 
pers. Below is the inscription: ‘Meleagros and Theoxenos and 
Menandros, the sons of Protomachos, (discharged) a vow to Zeus 
Brontaios*, 

Thunder, says Sir William Ramsay, ‘in early summer is ex- 
ceedingly common on the Phrygian uplands*” Hence one of the 
chief cults of northern and eastern Phrygia was that of Zeus 
Bronton, ‘He that Thunders.’ Scores of inscriptions from this‘ and 
adjoining districts? make mention of him; and his worship, thanks 


to the traffic in Phrygian slaves, spread at a comparatively early 
date to Rome’®. 


As to the character of this deity, apart from vague epithets such 


1881 vi. 134 f. no. 3). The order of the words suggests that Bpovralw was added as an 
afterthought. 

1 Supra i. 646. 

2 F. W. Hasluck in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1907 xxvii. 66 no. 12 Medéaypos kal 
Oedéevos | kat Mévavdpos of IIpwroudyou | Aw Bpovraiws edxjy. 

3 Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1882 iii. 124. 

4 At and near Nakoleia (Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1882 iii. 123 f., 
1884 v. 257f.), Dorylaeion (zd. 2b. 1882 iii. 123, 1884 v. 255 ff., zd. in Studies tn the 
History and Art of the Eastern Provinces of the Roman Empire Aberdeen 1906 p. 276f. 
nos. 7, 10, 11, Corp. tuscr. Gr. iii no. 3810, Add. no. 38174, A. von Domaszewski in the 
Arch.-ep. Mitth. 1883 vii. 174 ff. nos. 14, 16, 18, 29, 33, T. Preger in the Ath. Afitth. 
1894 xix. 310f. nos. g—11. See further szfra p. 280 n. 1), Prymnessos (Corp. zxscr. Gr. 
iii no. 3819), Aymak (zd. iii no. 3822), Kotiaeion (G. Perrot—E. Guillaume—J. Delbet 
Exploration archéologique de la Galatie et de la Bithynie etc. Paris 1872 i. 116f. no. 77), 
Kurtkoi (A. Korte in the Ath. Mitth. 1899 xxiv. 441 ff. nos. 35—37), Gunjartk (2d. 16. 
1899 xxiv. 443 f. no. 38), Zizhissar (id. 7b. 1899 xxiv. 446f. no. 44), Bunarbashi (id. ib. 
1900 xxv. 409 f. no. 19), Gzimbet (id. 1b. 1900 xxv. 416f. no. 29), at and near Lndnz (zd. 
2b. 1900 xxv. 417f. nos. 27—30). 

> Bithynia (G. Mendel in the Bzd/. Corr. Hell. tg00 xxiv. 411 no. 103 Lsstr-heut, 
413 no. 106 Kowjounlou), Galatia (Corp. inser. Gr. iii no. 4135 Ogur or Ogut, Sir W. M. 
Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1884 v. 258 Ankyra, J. G. C. Anderson 2d. 1899 xix. 
73 no. 24 Lki kilisse), Lykaonia (supra p. 817 Laodikeia Katakekaumene). 

8 Corp. inscr. Gr. iii no. 5931=Zuscr. Gr. Sic. Zt. no. 982 (Rome) Tvaios KXavdcos 
Hurixns 6G Meyddw | Bpovrayre SGpov avéOnxer, Corp. inscr. Gr. iii no. 5933=Luser. 
Gr. Sic. Zt. no. 983 (Rome) 666 "Ernxéw [Bp]lovravre AL... ]|[..] Telowy etl yjv], Corp. 
inscr. Lat. vi no. 432=Dessau Jnscr. Lat. sel. no. 3046 (Rome) Iovi Sancto Brontonti 
Aur. Poplius g, Corp. inser. Lat. vi no. 733 =Wilmanns Zx. inscr. Lat. no. 130= Dessau 
Inscr. Lat. sel, no. 4226 (Rome) deo Soli Invicto Mitrhe (szc) | Fl. Septimius Zosimus 
v.p., | sacerdus dei Brontontis | et Aecate (sc), hoc speleum | constituit, Corp. zzscr. Lat. 
vi no. 2241 (Rome) L. Iulius L. f. Clau(dia tribu) | Pollitianus sacer(dos) | dei Bron- 
tontis | donum d. d. 

The Roman Iupiter Zonans, a very different deity, was likewise represented in ees 
by Zeus Bpovrév (Dion Cass. 54. 4) or Bpovrjavos (res gestae divi Augusti 19 p. 22 f. Diehl 
cited supra p. 111 n. 0, 20. 2 p. 38f. Diehl). 


ie mal 


836 Zeus Brontatos, Brontin, Brontésios 


as ‘Great’ and ‘ Holy!’ and ‘Hearer of Prayer,’ he is called ‘the 
Father god®’ and ‘the Victorious Father®, on the strength of which 
appellations he has been identified‘ with the Phrygian Pdpas or 
Papas’, His art-type was that of a late provincial Zeus—witness a 
crude bust from Dorylaeion (Eskzshehir) in the British Museum 
(fig. 794) A marble altar from Giimbet in Phrygia, described by 
A. Korte’, makes it clear, however, that Zeus Brontén—like Zeus 
Dios of the same region*—had also a Dionysiac aspect. The altar- 
front is adorned with a lunar crescent, beneath which is a bearded 
bust of Zeus in relief, with an eagle perched on his right shoulder. 
The altar-back shows two ox-heads with a plough below them. 
The small sides of the monument have vases and a vine-stem. 
Other altars dedicated to Zeus Brontén at or near’ /ndnii repeat the 
elements of this decoration—eagle, plough, vine, etc.2 And it cannot 
be a mere coincidence that a whole series of tombstones from A /¢yu- 
tach represents the deceased surrounded by the same sacred emblems 
—eagle, plough, and vine”. Presumably Zeus Bronzén was not only a 
celestial but alsoa terrestrial power. Indeed, his chthonian character 
is fairly established by the fact that almost every inscription from 
Phrygia in which he is mentioned occurs on a gravestone”. Those 
who had worshipped him in life would naturally claim his protection 
in death.. 

What forms his worship took we are not expressly told. But 
‘there is good reason to suppose that he was served with mystic 
rites in a cave. /ndnii, a stronghold of his cult, derives its name 
(‘Cave-front’) from a great cavern visible in the rock above the 
village. The cavern comprises an upper and a lower chamber, con- 


1 W. Link De vocis ‘‘ Sanctus” wsu pagano Konigsberg 1g1o. 

° Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1882 iii. 123 (Nakoleia) Au Bpovrayre 
kal Ilarpl bec. 

3 Jd. 7b, 1882 iil. 124 (Nakoleia) Nexnrwp Marnp. 

4 Td. ib. 1882 ill. 124. But see F. Cumont in Pauly—Wissowa Real-ZEnc. iii. 891. 

5 Supra p. 292 0. 4. 

6 Brit. Mus. Cat. Sculpture iii. 3 no. 1521 inscribed Au Bpovréyre |’Aynatdaos Kalra 
emitayny (Corp. imscr. Gr. iii Add. no. 38174). Hard limestone. Height: 2 ft 3 ins. 
Fig. 794 is from a photograph by Mr R. B. Fleming. 

7 A. Korte in the Ath. Mitth. 1900 xxv. 416f. no. 26. 

8 Supra p. 280 f. 

9 A. Korte in the Ath. Mitth. 1900 xxv. 417 f. nos. 27, 28, 29. 

10 G, Mendel ‘ Catalogue des monuments grecs, romains et byzantins du musée impérial 
ottoman de Brousse’ in the Bud/. Corr. Hell. 1909 xxxiii. 283 ff. nos. 45—52 figs. 17—24, 
G. Rodenwaldt ‘ Zeus Bronton’ in the Jahré. d. kais. deutsch. arch. Inst. 1919 xxxiv. 79 
fig. 3. 

1 Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1884 v. 257, F. Cumont in Pauly— 
Wissowa Real-Enc. iii. 891. See, however, G. Rodenwaldt in the Jahrb. d. hats. deutsch. 
arch. Inst. 1919 Xxxiv. 82 n. 1. 


Zeus Brontatos, Brontin, Brontésios 837 


nected by means of a steep shaft. Close by stood a limestone altar 
dedicated ‘To Zeus from the Cave, Hearer of Prayer’ Another 





Fig. 794. 


1 A. Korte in the Ath. Mitth. 1900 xxv. 419 ft. no. 32 Au €& addfjs élrnkow Oe | «.T.D. 
Supra p. 249 Nn. 2. 


838 Zeus Brontaios, Brontin, Brontéstos 


limestone altar, decked with the god’s emblems (an eagle, two 
bucrania, a garland, a vine-stem) and bearing an inscription ‘to Zeus 
Telesphéros, is built into a fountain at the north-east end of the 
village’. Moreover, a priest of Broxton and Hekate is known to 
have consecrated a cave (sfeleum) to Mithras at Rome*. Hence 
it is highly probable that the cult of the Phrygian cave-Zeus re- 
sembled that of the Cretan cave-Zeus. As the mystics of Zeus 
Idaios had themselves to make the thunders of nocturnal Zagreus 
before attaining the sanctity of their god’%, so in all likelihood the 
devotees of Zeus Brontén by some mémeszs of his thunder sought to 
become partakers of his godhead. This assumes, no doubt, that the 
Phrygians, like the Greeks‘, recognised subterranean thunders, But 
it will be remembered that in Orphic, and therefore Thraco-Phrygian, 
story the infant Zagreus sat on a throne grasping the thunderbolt 
of Zeus’. If Zeus was hypsibremétes®, Dionysos at least was Brémios’. 

Bearing in mind, then, the Dionysiac and guasiz-Orphic nature of 
Zeus Brontén, we are better able to appreciate a votive relief in 
the Villa Panfili(fig. 795) dedicated to him under the title of Iupiter 
Sanctus Bronton*. This monument, purely Greek in its design, 
shows a youthful lyre-player seated on a rock-cut throne, against 
the side of which appears a female panther. Before him stand two 
women carrying a jug and a bowl respectively. Panther, jug, and 
bowl betoken a Dionysiac company. The rock-cut throne recalls 
.the throne of Zeus in the Idaean Cave*®. And it is reasonable to 
surmise that the scene as a whole portrays the ritual enthronement 
of a worshipper in the cave of Zeus Brontén. If it be urged that the 
seated figure resembles Apollon rather than Dionysos, we might 
reply that Dionysos from s. v B.C. onwards tends to become Apolline 
and is sometimes equipped with the lyre”. But it would, I think, be 


1 A. von Domaszewski in the A7vch.-ef. Mitth. 1883 vii. 176 no. 22 (incomplete), 
A. KGrte oc. cit. 1900 xxv. 418 f. no. 31 EviAxcos ‘Iaxiv|Oov rept abrod | cal trav eldiwy | At 
Terecgopw | evxijs xdpuv. 

2 Corp. inscr. Lat. vi no. 733 (quoted supra p. 835 n. 6). 

3 Supra i. 648 ff. 4 Supra p. 829. 

5 Supra i. 398, 647. 8 Supra p. 830 n. I. 

7 I take Bpdutos to denote ‘ god of the roaring Thunder’ (Bpéuw, Bpduos, Bpovr7 < *Bpop- 
Ta: see Prellwitz Eiym. Worterb. d. Gr. Spr.” p. 84, Boisacq Dict. étym. de la Langue 
Gr. p. 132). Other views are noted by O. Jessen in Pauly—Wissowa fead- Enc, iii. 888 f. 

8 Gerhard Ant. Bildw. p. 321f. pl. 82, 1 (=my fig. 795) (a Bacchic Apollon engaged 
in the Mysteries), G. Winckelmann Monumenti anticht inediti? Roma 1821 i. 63 f. pl. 50 
(Orpheus in the Underworld, which is represented by a tiger-like Kerberos and two 
Danaides (!)), Matz—Duhn Azz. Bildw. in Rom iii. 147 f. no. 3773 (‘Iuppiter Bronton’ with 
two youthful female figures), Sir W. M. Ramsay in the Journ. Hell. Stud. 1882 iii. 123 f. 
(‘ Apollo Citharoedus...with a panther and two choephoroi’). The dedication is given 
supra p. 835 n. 6. 

9 Suprai. 646. ~ 10 Supra p. 244 with n. 5. 


‘ 


Zeus Brontaios, Brontin, Brontésios 839 


more relevant to observe that the cult of Zeus ABrontén stood in 
some relation to that of Phoibos. A marble altar found near Kur- 
shumlu, between Brouzos and Dorylaeion, was dedicated to Zeus 
Brontén by two brothers Paulos and Phoibos together with their 
mother Rufina ‘in accordance with a command of the god Phoibos".’ 
Here it is clear that the dedicant Phoibos is directed by his name- 
sake god; and it is at least possible that in Phrygia, as at Delphoi?, 


























Fig. 795. 


Apollon had to some extent displaced Dionysos. It looks as though 
we should admit a certain mutual influence, not to say contamina- 
tion, of three cave-gods originally quite distinct—Zeus Arontén 
whose thunders issued ‘from the Cave’, Mithras to whom the priest 
of Bronton dedicated a spelewm*, and Phoibos the last occupant of 
the Delphic ddyton. In this accommodating system it may well be 
that the worshipper, playing the lyre of Phoibos ‘the Pure’, was 
believed to be making the thunders‘ of the reborn Zeus. 


1 A.-von Domaszewski in the Arch.-ep. Mitth. 1883 vii. 174 no. 14 [dyabq] TUX | 
Aci Bpovr&vre Mad|Aos kal BotBos v (=ol?) a|deApol ard Kéde\vow Tod Hed Po(i)|Bov ex ray 
idiw\y Tov Buwov avelornoay pera THs | untpos ‘Povdelvas. 

2 Supra p. 243 ff. 3 Supra p. 837 nN. I. 

4 Supra p. 835 n. 6. 5 Supra p. 500. 

6 In Nonn. Deon. t. 427 ff. (supra p. 449 n. 2 (2)) Typhoeus describes the thunders 
of Zeus as a musical instrument (432 dpyavoy atroBonrov ’ONpuor). 


84.0 Retrospect 


Retrospect. 


Most of the evidence available for a study of Zeus as god of 
Thunder and Lightning now lies behind us. But, lest 1 be accused 
of inveigling my readers into an irremeable labyrinth of detail, 
I shall endeavour in a few concluding paragraphs to emphasise 
afresh the main outlines and salient points of my design. 

Zeus, ‘the Bright One, was originally nothing but the day-light 
Sky, conceived in zoistic fashion as alive with a life of its own; 
and traces of that primitive conception could be detected here and 
there throughout the classical period. But already in Homeric days, 
indeed long before Homer, the divine Sky had developed into the 
Sky-god, a weather-making ruler, who dwelt in upper glory (azthér). 
As such he became the recognised head of the Hellenic pantheon, 
and in the Hellenistic age was brought into connexion with other 
manifestations of celestial brightness—sun, moon, and stars alike. 

So much had been made clear in the first volume of this work. 
The second, beginning with the obvious reflexion that the sky is 
not always bright, went on to observe that Zeus god of the bright 
sky naturally became god of the weather in general', any sudden 
atmospheric change being interpreted as an ominous ‘Zeus-sign’ 
(Diosemta)?. 

Of such changes the most momentous was the thunder-storm. 
For it was then, when all was dark, that Zeus would rend the 
heavens and come down in the form of a bright blinding flash 
(Zeus Keraunés)*. 

Investigation of Zeus Kataibétes, ‘who descends’ in the lightning‘, 
and of his ed/sza or enelysta, sacred precincts where none might tread’, 
led us to examine into the curious belief that the ‘Zeus-struck’ man 
(Didbletos), though he lay blasted and blackened on the ground, was 
for all that a divinised mortal even now ‘in Elysium’ (exedj/szos)®. 

Hence a long but necessary digression on the Elysian Way from 
earth to heaven, ‘the road of Zeus’ as Pindar called it, in plain prose 
the Galaxy, which was regarded by Pythagoreans as a soul-path 
and associated by Platon in Pythagorising mood with ‘a straight 
light like a pillar’ stretched along the axis of the universe’. This 
enquiry disclosed a new and not unimportant conception of the sky 
as resting on a sky-prop*—a conception which helped to explain, 
not only the Iupiter-columns of Rhenic Germany®, but also such 
monuments as the column of Mayence™, and even the great com- 
memorative columns of Rome and Constantinople". 

1 Supra p. tf. 2 Supra p. 4 ff. 3 Supra p. 11 ff. 4 Supra p. 13 ff. 
5 Supra p. 21f. 6 Supra p. 22 ff. 7 Supra p. 36 ff. 8 Supra p. 50 ff. 
9 Supra p. 57 ff. 10 Supra p. 93 ff. Supra p. too ff. 


Retrospect 841 


Further consideration of the sky-prop, as exemplified by the 
Diana-pillars of Italy’ and the Agyzeds-pillars of Greece?, threw 
light on some perplexing phenomena of popular cult, e,¢. the wooden 
balusters of Diana emorenszs* and the dékana of the Dioskouroi*. 
Moreover, the occurrence of an Agyzezs-pillar set on an omphalds 
at Byzantion® turned our thoughts to Delphoi‘, where the omphalds 
lately discovered by F. Courby’ was seen to be the base of an 
A gyiets-post® covering the navel-string of Zeus, in accordance with 
a custom still traceable in various parts of Greece®, and safeguarded 
by the eagles that betokened his presence”. The Delphic Agyzezs- 
pillar was in a manner duplicated by the Delphic tripod with its 
central stem™. On this sat the Pythza as bride of Apollon”—a usage 
implying the caldron of apotheosis’, which an Orphic myth located 
at Delphoi and connected with the death of Dionysos™. 

And here an attempt was made to determine the stratification 
of this very complex cult’ It appeared that the first Hellenic 
occupants of the oracular seat were the sky-god Zeus Aphészos (?), 
‘He that lets fly**’ and the earth-goddess Ge 7hémzs (?), ‘She that 
produces”, their respective tokens being the eagles and the omphalés. 
Then followed Dionysos, brought in by a wave of Thracian immi- 
grants'*, who told how their god was done to death by the Titans, 
boiled in the Delphic tripod, and buried beside it’ Thus the 
sanctum sanctorum in the Pythian temple contained, not only the 
omphalés with its eagles attesting the joint worship of Zeus and Ge, 
but also the tripod and tomb of Dionysos*. Finally, Apollon to a 
large extent displaced Dionysos”, who however down to the close 
of antiquity retained at least the wintry quarter of the Delphic 
year”. The latest comer was fittingly affiliated to Zeus as his 
prophétes® (if the one was Aphészos, the other was aphétor*) and 
took over the properties of his various predecessors—the eagles of 
Zeus, the omphaldés of Ge, the tripod of Dionysos—importing in 
addition his own Thessalian bay”. His installation was completed 
before the epic age”. 

Delphoi is vital. Here, if anywhere, we touch the very heart 
of Greek religion. And the gods whom the Delphic succession 
associated with Zeus demand closer scrutiny than they have yet 
received. It seemed worth while therefore to tackle afresh a whole 


1 Supra p. 143 ff. ? Suprap.160ff. * Supra p. 143 ff. * Supra pp. 160, 161. 
5 Supra p. 166 ff. 6 Supra p. 169 ff. 7 Suprap.174ff. §& Supra p. 177 Ff. 

9 Supra p. 189 ff. 1 Supra p.179ff. ™ Supra p. 193 ff. 1 Supra p. 207 ff. 

3 Supra p. 210 ff. 14 Supra p. 218 ff. 1 Supra p. 266f. 

16 Supra pp. 179 f., 266 f. 7 Supra p. 267f. 18 Supra p. 268. 

19 Supra p. 218 ff. 9 Supra p. 239. 21 Supra p. 243 ff. ™ Supra p. 235f. 

°3 Supra p. 204. 4 Supra p. 180. 2 Supra p. 486. °6 Supra p. 239. 


84.2 Retrospect 


series of problems concerned with the relation of Zeus on the one 
hand to Dionysos, on the other to Apollon. 

Zeus and Ge were purely Hellenic. Their counterparts in the 
Thraco-Phrygian area proved to be a sky-god Dios and an earth- 
goddess Zemela, whose son was known as Dios JVfsos, that is Dios 
‘the Younger!’ From inscriptions and literary sources we learnt 
that these names were Grecised as Zeus Déos, Semele, and Dionysos? 
Further, it was pointed out that the Thraco-Phrygians conceived 
Dios the son to be a rebirth of Dios the father. And this conception, 
to which parallels could be adduced from many backward races%, 
served to explain the odd fact that the youthful consort of Kybele 
was commonly called AZzis, ‘Daddy,’ or Papas, ‘Papa’ It accounted 
also satisfactorily for a feature of old Anatolian worship often 
noticed but hitherto not fully understood—the constant grouping 
of the mother-goddess with a youthful pdéredros, at once her husband 
and her child®. It even suggested a reason for the speed and success 
with which early Christianity permeated the regions of bri 
and Thrace*. 

Akin to the Thracian Father and Son were the Samothracian 
Kabeiroi or Megaloi Theoi’, consideration of whom led to a discus- 
sion of the double Zeus® and the Dioskouroi’. 

After dealing with the Phrygian Zeus Tetrdotos”, the Celtic 
Janiform god", Iupiter Asmbzsagrus and lupiter Dianus at Aquileia”, 
.we proceeded to examine the relationship of Ianus to Iupiter™. 
The view here maintained is that an ancient Illyrian (?) sky-god 
was worshipped on the west of the Adriatic as Janus or lan, on 
the east as Zan. Ianus was in effect an older Jupiter“, Zan an older 
Zeus”. Neither Zan nor Ianus was, to begin with, anthropomorphic. 
Zan as being the broad Sky had the title MW/égas™, but was left 
without an effigy”. Ianus was represented as a vault or archway 
with four supporting pillars'—a mimic sky which gave rise to the 
Roman triumphal arch. When Ianus became iconic, he was figured 
as a double-faced deity standing beneath his arch®. The double face, 
a characteristic of other sky-gods, showed a tendency towards 
differentiation” (beardless v. bearded, blonde v. black-haired, etc.) 
and perhaps signified that the divine Sky was bright by day and 
dark by night*. Among differentiated types was that of Virbius as 
Dianus or lanus, the consort of Diana at Nemi®: he was plastered 


1 Supra p. 267 ff. 2 Supra p. 277 ff. 3 Supra p.294n.1. 4 Supra p. 292 ff. 
5 Supra p. 294 ff. 8 Supra pp. 288 ff., 303 ff. 7 Supra p. 313 ff. 
8 Supra p. 316 ff. 9 Supra p. 422 ff. 1 Supra p. 322. ll Supra p. 323 fi. 
12 Supra p. 326 ff. ™ Supra p. 328ff. 4 Supra p. 335 ff. 19 Supra p. 340 ff. 


16 Supra p. 344 ff 7 Supra p. 353f. 18 Supra p. 354 ft. 19 Supra p. 359 ff. 
20 Supra p. 365 ff. 7! Supra p. 387 ff. ™ Supra p. 378 ff. 3 Supra p. 392 ff. 


Retrospect 84.3 


over with oak-leaves because she was an oak-goddess', whose 
sacred tree, or a descendant of the same, was subsisting as late as 
the eighteenth century”. 

A section on Zeus and the Twins showed first how the supports 
of the Sky were gradually transformed into its supporters, passing 
through successive stages as pillars, pillars with personal names, 
pillars with individual effigies, and pillars in the shape of the 
Dioskouroi*. When the old popular belief in a flat earth over- 
arched by a solid sky resting on side-props gave place to the 
philosophic idea of a globe enclosed in a sphere half light, half 
dark, room was still found for the Dioskouroi by a daring personi- 
fication of the two hemispheres*. Next it was contended that the 
Sky, appearing alternately as Day and Night, is essentially of a 
twin character. Hence the savage notion that twins in general are 
‘Children of the Sky*.’ Hence too the contrast between numerous 
mythical pairs of Twins’, for instance Kastor and Polydeukes’, 
Romulus and Remus’, Zetes and Kalais*, Zethos and Amphion”, 
Herakles and Iphikles™. A recurring feature in such cases is the 
comparative feebleness of one of the Twins, a feebleness sometimes 
amounting to effeminacy, which therefore paves the way for the 
recognition of Twins male and female”. Lastly, in this connexion 
we investigated the supposed twinship of Apollon and Artemis®. 
A survey of recent opinions with regard to the provenance of Apollon™ 
was followed by a detailed discussion of the crucial Hyperborean 
myth”. The ‘wondrous way’ to the land of the Hyperboreoi men- 
tioned by Pindar was held to be none other than the celestial 
‘road of Zeus, but the Hyperborean sacrifice of asses to Apollon 
suggested rather a terrestrial abode in or near Thrace. And this 
bilocation squared with other mythical happenings—Herakles’ cap- 
ture of the hind with golden horns among the Hyperboreoi of ‘the 
Istrian land”,’ his introduction of the white-poplar to Olympia from 
Thesprotia®, and the metamorphosis of the Heliades into black- 
poplars on the banks of the Eridanos’—the poplar, white or black, 
being a Borderland or Otherworld tree”. Special attention was here 
drawn to a neglected statement by Apollonios of Rhodes to the 
effect that the Keltoi took amber to be the tears, not of the poplars, 
- but of Apollon, when banished by Zeus to the Hyperborean haunts”. 


1 Supra p. 400 ff. 2 Supra p. 417 fi. 3 Supra p. 422 ff. 
4 Supra p. 432 ff. > Supra p. 434 Ff. 6 Supra p- 435 ff., cp. p- 317- 
7 Supra p. 436 ff. 8 Supra p. 440 ff. 9 Supra p. 444 f. 
0 Supra p. 445. 1 Supra p. 445 ft. 12 Supra p. 447 ff. 
13 Supra p. 452 fi. M Supra p. 453 ff. 15 Supra p. 4509 ff. 
16 Supra p. 462 ff. VW Supra p. 465 f. 18 Supra p. 467 ff. 


19 Supra p. 472 ff. 20 Supra p. 470 ff. 2 Supra p. 484. 


844 Retrospect 


Ultimately the following conclusions were reached: (1) that Apollon 
came to Greece from the land of the Hyperboreoi, dwellers ‘Beyond 
the Mountains,’ about the source of the Danube’; (2) that the road 
to their northern home was described sometimes as an earthly, 
sometimes as a heavenly track, the former being the old trade-route 
for amber along the eastern shore of the Adriatic, the latter its 
aérial counterpart the Milky Way?®; (3) that the Agyzeds-pillars of 
Illyria and Epeiros marked out the ‘Way’ by which the god 
travelled, and pointed onwards to Delphoi, where his oracle was 
established by the Hyperboreans Pagasos and Agyieus*; (4) that 
on his journey southward he was associated with different trees in 
different regions—possibly, as Dr Rendel Harris urges, with the 
apple-tree* in north Europe (Balder?*, Phol??*), probably with the 
black-poplar (de//on) in the Balkans’, certainly with the bay in 
Thessaly®; (5) that Phoibos Apé//on—for such was his full name— 
may have been originally a sky-god, who was affiliated to Zeus at 
Delphoi and specialised by the Greeks into a sun-god®; (6) that he 
met Artemis first in Asia Minor or the Archipelago, where she 
originated as the younger form of the Anatolian mother-goddess™. 
Thus at the close of a somewhat lengthy excursion we were brought 
back—like Apollon himself—by the Elysian route to Delphoi. 

Resuming the main thread of our argument, we next dealt with 
lightning as a flash from an eye, the evil eye, of Zeus". The subject 
afforded an opportunity of explaining the superstition, not only of 
the evil eye, but of the good eye also”. 

Then followed a study of lightning as the weapon of Zeus— 
axe, spear, sword, or what not? A notice of neolithic celts, which 
the Greeks still term ‘lightning-axes’ (astrapopelékia, astropelékia)™, 
prefaced a collection and discussion of the da¢a with regard to the 
double axe in ‘Minoan’ and post-‘Minoan’ times“. This implement 

1 Supra p. 494 ff. 2 Supra p. 496 ff. 3 Supra p. 499. 

4 Supra p. 487 ff., cp. Addenda ad loc. 

> J. Rendel Harris The Ascent of Olympus Manchester 1917 p. 64f., 2d. Origin and 
Meaning of Apple Cults (extr. from the Bulletin of the Fohn Rylands Library Manchester 
August 1918 to March 1919) Manchester rgrg p. 43 ff. 

6 For Phol (P8I cod.) in the Second Merseburg Charm see K. Miillenhoff—W. Scherer 
Denkméaler deutscher Poeste und Prosa aus dem viti—xiu Jahrhundert® Berlin 1892 p. 16 
(Text), J. Grimm Zeutonic Mythology trans. J. S. Stallybrass London 1882 i. 224 ff., 1883 
ii. 614, ili. 1231 f. (Text), 1268 Index, 1888 iv. 1358, 1882 Index, E. H. Meyer 
Germanische Mythologie Berlin 1891 p. 262, E. Mogk in the Grundriss der germanischen 
Philologie? Herausgegeben von H. Paul Strassburg 1goo ill. 324, P. D. Chantepie de 
la Saussaye The Religion of the Teutons Boston and London rgo2 p. 127f., R. M. Meyer 
Altgermanische Religionsgeschichte Leipzig 1910 p. 311 f., R. A. S. Macalister in the 
Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy 1919 xxxiv. 374 ff. (Text). 

7 Supra p. 484 ff. 8 Supra p. 486. 9 Supra p. 500. 10 Supra p. 501. 

Ul Supra p. 501 ff. 2 Supra p. 504f. 13 Supra p. 505 ff. 14 Supra p. 513 fi. 


Retrospect 84.5 


was seen falling from heaven to earth, as on a gold ring from 
Mykenai', incorporated with tree- or plant-forms, as on the savrco- 
phagus from Hagia Triada (here interpreted afresh)? and on that 
from Padlazkastro*, stuck into the pillars of a sacred building, as at 
Knossos‘, or into the stalactite columns of a cave, as on Mount 
Dikte®, set up between a pair of bovine horns, as in Cretan art 
passim’,—motifs appropriate each and all to the weapon of a sky- 
god. A lenticular gem, hitherto unpublished, showed this god 
posting along through the air with wings on shoulders and heels 
and a double axe in his hand’. We identified him with Kronos, 
the husband of Rhea, and conjectured that the Greeks took his 
name to mean ‘Chopper®.” The Homeric Kronos anxkylométes, ‘of 
the crooked blade’ (for so it should be rendered), passed on his 
hérpe to the Italian Saturn®. An analogous figure, part deity, part 
dirk, was recognised among the Hittite carvings at Boghaz-Keui”™. 
The multiple Wings could be paralleled from the coins of Mallos 
and Byblos; the double axe and dre, from the coins of Ake or 
Ptolemais”. 

When the Bronze Age succumbed to the Iron Age, the ‘Minoan’ 
Kronos was succeeded by the Hellenic Zeus, another storm-god of 
like proclivities”, who became the inheritor of the double axe over 
a wide area of the ancient world. 

At Tarentum ‘bolts from heaven forged of bronze, traditionally 
connected with early settlers from Crete, were taken over by Zeus 
Katarbétes™. 

In Asia Minor, if we may trust Plutarch, the double axe (ddbrys) 
belonged in turn to the Amazons, the Lydians, and the Carians, 
being eventually placed by Arselis of Mylasa in the hand of Zeus 
Labradeus“, The statement is broadly correct. The Amazonian 
axe was in fact of Hittite origin: it is borne by the youthful god at 
Boghaz-Keui and by his successor Herakles (Sandas) at Tarsos”™. 
On coins of Thyateira and other Lydian towns it is carried by the 
local hero (Tyrimnos or the like), who in Graeco-Roman times tends 
to be identified with Apollon and Helios". Similar coin-types pre- 
vail in Phrygia, where again the axe-bearing hero (Lairbenos, 
Lairmenos, etc.) is equated with the same divinities. Not improb- 
ably these are all Hellenised forms of the younger Hittite sky-god”. 
As to the Carians, Hekatomnos early in s. iv B.C. struck coins with 


1 Supra p. 514 ff. 2 Supra p. 516 ff. 3 Supra p. 524f. 
4 Supra p. 528 f. > Supra p. 530 ff. 6 Supra p. 535 ff. 
7 Supra p. 543 f. 8 Supra p. 548 f. 9 Supra p. 549 f. 
10 Supra p. 550 ff. 1 Supra p. 552 ff. : Supra p.» 554 ff. 
13 Supra pp. 29 ff, 559- M Supra p. 559 f. 19 Supra p. 560. 


16 Supra p. 561 ff. W Supra p. 565 ff. 


846 Retrospect 


the type of Zeus shouldering a double axe. This was an adaptation 
from the cult-image of Zeus Strdtios or Labrayndos (Labrandeis, 
Labrandendés, etc.), who was worshipped at Labranda near Mylasa’. 
The Mylasians just outside their city had a second sanctuary, that 
of Zeus Osogéa, whose attributes the eagle, the trident, and the crab 
procured for him the title Zenoposeidén’. 

And here, by way of parenthesis, we contended that the Hellenic 
Poseidon himself was but a specialised form of Zeus, his name 
Potet-Dén, etc., denoting originally ‘Lord Zeus,’ just as pdétnia Hére 
meant ‘lady Hera’.’ 

In Karia the cult of Zeus had probably been superposed on that 
of an indigenous earth-mother, whose characteristics he had to some 
extent absorbed. Two queer reliefs show the Zeus of Labranda 
grasping a double axe but equipped with female breasts+—an 
abnormal figure, which recurs at Swwasa in Kappadokia® and is 
balanced by a bearded goddess brandishing a thunderbolt at Zoguz 
in Pontos®, 

A short section followed in which, accepting M. Mayer’s con- 
nexion of /dbrys and Labyrinthos, we maintained (1) that the Carian 
Labradynda, Laébranda and the Cretan Labjrinthos both denoted a 
place where lightning, the sky-god’s /déérys, had fallen, and (2) that 
in Karia and Crete alike the /ddvys was primarily the attribute of a 
god and only secondarily, if at all’, the attribute of a goddess‘. 

More space was devoted to E. Conybeare’s suggestion that the 
labarum was derived from the /déérys, and a fresh attempt was made 
to trace the steps by which the pagan symbol developed into the 
Christian monogram’. It was shown (1) that the old Anatolian 
double axe was still recognised as a sacred object or sign throughout 
the Levant in the opening centuries of our era—witness the coin- ° 
types and reliefs discussed above, the reputed axe of Noah”, the 
Ophite diagram™, the Gnostic mystery of the double axe”, and 
(2) that the pictograph of the /¢érys, having already given rise to 
a variety of syllabic and alphabetic characters, might readily be 
adapted to other significant uses*. Accordingly it was suggested 
that Constantine, who during his stay in the east had observed the 
lébrys and noted its possibilities, later deliberately transformed it 
into the /abarum, an emblem at once old and new, pagan and 
Christian, in a word thoroughly Constantinian™, 


1 Supra pp. 573 ff., 585 ff. 2 Supra p. 576 ff. 3 Supra p. 582 ff. 
4 Supra p. 592 ff. ® Supra p. 594f. 8 Supra p. 595 f. 
7 Supra p. 622 ff. 8 Supra p. boo f. 9 Supra p. 6or ff. 
10 Supra p. 609 f. 1l Supra p. 61of. 2 Supra p. 611 ff. 


13 Supra p. 613, cp. p. 607 f. M Supra p. 613 f. 


Retrospect 847 


Further examples of the double axe in the east! and in the 
west? did not detain us long; and we passed on to discuss the axes 
carried by priests and priestesses in Greece and Italy*. Traces of 
the ‘Minoan’ /dbrys were detected in the double axe of Athena‘, 
the double axe of Theseus’®, the double axes taken in procession 
from Athens to Delphoi’, etc. Attention was also drawn to Italian 
pontifical axes’. And it was held that the lictor’s axe in particular 
had been a sacred weapon borne before the king as representative 
of the sky-god: the rods bound round it and so charged with its 
virtue would be potent to expel evil from a malefactor*. 

Sacred axes, from neolithic times onward, have been distinguished 
by their colour, or size, or decorative design®. The decoration often 
consists in diagonals and zig-zags probably derived from lashings”, 
sometimes in dendritic patterns resembling the ‘thunder-besom",’ or 
in stylised moths with circular ‘eyes”,’ Such embellishment indicated 
the presence of a soul in the axe, and simultaneously protected it 
from possible harm. Further progress towards anthropomorphism 
was discernible in the Early Iron Age, when small axes of bronze 
became axe-shaped pendants and took on sundry animal or human 
features®. Finally the pendant was modified into a gong and thus 
endowed with divine utterance™. 

A marked trait in the ‘Minoan’ axe was its tendency towards 
duplication. Without denying that a pair of axes might be used to 
symbolise a pair of deities, we concluded that in general double or 
multiple blades were intended to augment the striking-power of 
the god that wielded them”. 

We next handled at some length the difficult but interesting 
case of Tenedos”™, and saw that to treat the double axe on its coins 
merely as a barter-unit” involved a very partial and inadequate 
hypothesis, contradicted alike by the coin-types themselves* and 
by the express testimony of the ancients, who record a definite 
cult of two axes in the island”. Rather there was reason to suppose 
that here the ‘Minoan’ weapon had passed into the hands of a 
Dionysiac Zeus or a Zeus-like Dionysos, paired as usual with the 
earth-goddess”. Their local names were Tennes and Hemithea, 
and their effigies were combined in the male-p/ws-female head, 
which appeared on the obverse of the Tenedian coins”. 


1 Supra p. 614 ff. 2 Supra p. 617 ff. 3 Supra p. 620 ff. 
4 Supra p. 625 f. 5 Supra p. 626 ff. 8 Supra p. 628. 

7 Supra p. 630 ff. 8 Supra p. 633 ff. 9 Supra p. 635 ff. 
10 Supra p. 639 ff. ll Supra p. 642 f. 12 Supra p. 643 fi. 
13 Supra p. 647 ff. 14 Supra p. 6409 ff. 1S Supra p. 652 ff. 
16 Supra p. 654 ff. 17 Supra p. 655 n. I. 18 Supra p. 655 ff 


19 Supra p. 668. 20 Supra pp. 662 f., 673. 21 Supra p. 668 ff. 


848 Retrospect 


The ‘Minoan’ conception of the sky-father’s weapon imbedded 
in the earth-mother’s tree! could be traced here and there in Hellenic 
cult and myth. In this connexion we discussed the axe of Hellos 
in the oak at Dodona’, the sword of Orestes in the tree at Rhegion’, 
the sword of Kinyras in the myrrh-tree‘, the axes of Erysichthon’s 
comrades in the oaks at Dotion®, and the knife of Phylakos in the 
oak at Phylake®. Scandinavian saga and Celtic folk-tale attested 
a similar relation of weapon to tree’; and confirmatory evidence 
was sought in the megalithic art of western Europe®. Penelope’s 
marriage-test perhaps presupposed the same set of half-forgotten 
ideas®. And the sanctity of the sky-god’s axe may even be regarded 
as the ultimate ground of more than one modern superstition”. 

As civilisation advanced, the double axe gave place to spear 
and sword. Lightning therefore came to be viewed on occasion as 
the spear of Zeus—a view which facilitated his transition from 
storm-god to war-god". Zeus Labrdyndos of Mylasa bore, not only 
an axe, but a spear and a sword to boot, and was worshipped by 
the martial Carians as S¢rdtéos, ‘Lord of Hosts®.’ Zeus Aveios of 
Hydisos is represented in military costume, now brandishing a 
thunderbolt, now resting on a spear®. Zeus Strategés of Amastris 
likewise holds a spear“. Analogous figures in Roman religion were 
Ilupiter Wclitaris, lupiter Imperator, lupiter Victor, etc.». And the 
spear in the god’s hand was illustrated from an Etruscan mirror, a 
.Gallo-Roman statuette, and the handle of a Roman lamp”. 

More rarely lightning was symbolised by a sword”. Comparable 
with the cult of Zeus S¢rdtios at Mylasa was the cult of Zeus 
Chrysaorets or Chrysaérios at Stratonikeia. This title, perhaps of 
Semitic origin, was presumably taken by the Greeks to mean 
‘Bearer of a Golden Sword,’ that is, of the lightning™. 

Axe, spear, and sword by no means exhausted the armoury of 
Zeus. Far more frequent than any of them as his attribute in 
literature and art is the thunderbolt (Aeraunds)®. Nevertheless from 
s. vi B.C. onwards this tremendous tool, as O. Gruppe observed, 
falls gradually into the background”. Little by little the thunder- 
bolt gives way to the sceptre, and the impetuous thunderer in time 
becomes the dignified ruler—a change sufficiently evidenced by 
vase-paintings™, statues, and other works of art”. To this moral 
development there was one notable exception. At Olympia Zeus 


1 Supra p. 677. 2 Supra p. 677 ff. 3 Supra p. 680. 4 Supra p. 680 ff. 
> Supra p. 683 f. 6 Supra p. 684 f. 7 Supra p. 682 f. 8 Supra p. 685 ff. 
9 Supra p. 690 ff. 10 Supra p. 608 ff. 11 Supra p. 704f. 1° Supra p. 705. 

3 Supra p. 705 f. 14 Supra p. 707. 5 Supra p. 706 ff. 1 Supra p. 709 ff. 


WV Supra p. 712 ff. 18 Supra p. 714 ff. 19 Supra p. 722. cu {rs 
1 Supra p. 731 fi. 2 Supra p. 737 fh. 


Retrospect 84.9 


Horkios, ‘God of Oaths,’ continued to grasp a thunderbolt in either 
hand. But that primitive insistence on the storm-god’s power was 
not after all devoid of ethical significance; it served, says Pausanias, 
‘to strike terror into perjurers'’ In this context we discussed 
the part played by Zeus in relation to Greek oaths, private and 
public, We also investigated the disputed personality of Dius 
Fidius and found him to be an old lightning-god with an appellative 
originally denoting ‘the Cleaver’ (fizdo) but later misinterpreted as 
‘Protector of Pledges’ (fdes)*. Our survey of the monuments 
enabled us to follow through several centuries the successive art- 
types of Zeus—striding, standing, seated—till they culminated in 
the masterpiece at Olympia. It was shown that Pheidias in all 
probability took a hint for his great statue from the seated Zeus of 
the local coinage, replacing the winged thunderbolt by a winged 
Victory to emphasise tranquil supremacy rather than stormy 
strength’. Further, it appeared that Alexander, ignoring this 
elevated conception of the godhead, deliberately reverted to an old 
pre-Pheidiac type and placed upon his silver money a seated Zeus, 
with eagle and sceptre, closely resembling Zeus Lykazos on the 
federal coins of Arkadia. His purpose in so doing is problematic : 
we noted a possible explanation’. Finally, on Italian soil Greek 
art portrayed the sceptred Zeus in a pose suggestive of inward 
reflexion. The outward symbols of the storm-god had wholly 
disappeared. The worshipper was confronted with Providence 
incarnate®, 

The thunderbolt was a conventional representation of lightning 
and as such underwent modifications of shape from time to time 
and from place to place. In Mesopotamian art it was first a bipartite 
and then a tripartite fork, composed of zig-zags or curved lines’. 
These forks, duplicated in s. ix B.C., were subsequently (c. 700 B.C.) 
stylised into the shape of a lotos-flower’. In that form they made 
their way through Asia Minor into Greece (650—550 B.C.), appearing 
there for the first time on vases of Ionian fabric’. Among the 
Greeks the lotiform bolt ran through three changes. Its petals 
became rays or flames’. Its sepals developed into wings—eagle’s 
wings, for the eagle was the lightning-bearer™. And its central 
spike took on a spiral twist, to suggest the lightning’s rotatory 
flight”. These changes can all be exemplified from the coinage 
of the temple-mints at Olympia. Ultimately, in the east the 

1 Supra p. 722 ff. 2 Supra p.727n.3. * Supra p. 724 ff. n. o. 

4 Supra p. 757 f. 5 Supra p. 760 ff. ® Supra p. 762 ff. 7 Supra p. 764 ff. 

8 Supra p. 767 ff. ® Supra p. 7609 ff. 10 Suprap.776f. 1 Supra p. 777 fi. 

12 Supra p. 779 f. 13 Supra p. 780 f. 
om ae 54 


850 Retrospect 


thunderbolt was anthropomorphised into a youthful male divinity’, 
in the west skeuomorphised into a barbed or hamate missile*®. In 
discussing these various transformations we touched incidentally 
on the symbolism of the lotos*, collected the names of thunder- 
flowers’, and examined the singular cult of Zeus Apdémyios°. 

Our next business was to consider whether the thunderbolt of 
Zeus bore any ascertainable relation to the trident of Poseidon, or 
to the alleged fork of Hades. With regard to the first question we 
concluded (1) that Greeks and Romans of the classical age doubt- 
less took the trident of Poseidon to be the fish-spear of a sea-god‘, 
but (2) that originally Poseidon had been a by-form of Zeus’ and 
his trident almost certainly a lightning-fork*. The latter contention 
was supported on the one hand by parallels from India’, on the 
other by the similarity of the hypaethral trident-mark at Athens 
to the hypaethral lightning-shrines of Rome”. Besides, if Poseidon 
had been ad origine a lightning-god, we can understand why he 
was represented as fulminant on a fifth-century coin of Zankle”, 
and we can see some fitness in the later fusion of Zeus-Poseidon 
into a single syncretistic type”. 

With regard to the second question it appeared (1) that no 
valid evidence could be produced for the fork as an attribute of 
the Greek Hades*®, but (2) that Iupiter /wtor was actually depicted 
with thunderbolt, trident, and fork—this last implement being prob- 
' ably borrowed from an Etruscan god of the Underworld". 

In short, it was argued that the bident of Italy and the trident 
of Greece were respectively descended from the bipartite and tri- 
partite forms of Mesopotamian lightning”. 

A bunch of cult-titles designated Zeus as god of the Thunder- 
bolt (Keraunés, Keraunobélos, Keratnios) or god of Lightning 
(Storpdos, Astrapaios, Astrdpton)*. The cults in question had their 
features of interest. The Arcadians in s. v B.C. worshipped Zeus 
Storpéos under the form of an aniconic pillar topped by a small 
pyramid”. Sling-bullets used in Sicily by the slave-troops of 
Athenion (103—100 B.C.) bore the device of a thunderbolt and the 
name of Zeus Kerazinios*. Coins of Seleukeia in Syria showed his 
bolt bound with a fillet and resting on a cushioned stool—a type 
that recurs on the Roman mintages of Vespasian, Titus, and other 


1 Supra p. 783 f. 2 Supra p. 784 f. ® Suprap. 77 ite 
4 Supra p. 7740. 4. 5 Supra p. 781 ff. 8 Supra p. 786. 
7 Supra pp. 582 ff., 786 f. 8 Supra p. 7869 ff. 9 Supra p. 790 ff. 
10 Supra pp. 789, 792 ff. 11 Supra p. 794 f. 12 Supra p. 796 ff. 
13 Supra p. 798 ff. 14 Supra p. 803 ff. 15 Supra p. 806. 


16 Supra p. 806 ff. W Supra p. 814 f. 18 Supra p. 812 ff. 
19 Supra p. 809. 


Retrospect 851 


emperors’. Coins of Diokaisareia in Kilikia even figure the thunder- 
bolt enthroned in a would-be human attitude’. 

It remained to deal with the Thracian Zeus Zbe/sotirdos, who is 
represented by several semi-barbaric reliefs as advancing to the 
attack with a thunderbolt in his right hand, an eagle on his left, 
and a snake at his feet*. One relief showed him in his chariot 
escorting a draped and veiled goddess‘. Another grouped him as 
a standing Zeus with a youthful rider named /améadoziles’. The 
elder god, the goddess, and the younger god give us the familiar 
Thracian triad of the sky-father, the earth-mother, and their son 
Dionysos. The two appellations, outlandish enough in appearance, 
were provocative of further enquiries. /ambadoviles, as G. Seure 
pointed out, can hardly be dissociated from /démdbe the dozle of 
Demeter—a mythical figure born of a misconception®. And Zde/- 
sourdos, with which Seure rightly connected Z7beletz?s, a Getic 
name of Salmoxis’, has been here for the first time elucidated by 
Mr B. F. C. Atkinson, who takes it to mean ‘ Zeus’ or ‘the son of 
Zeus, the Splitter, with reference to the thunderbolt in the god’s 
right hand®*, 

In conclusion, the lightning, as Dr Rendel Harris surmised, was 
sometimes deemed the whip of Zeus—a notion which not only left 
its mark on Greek poetry from Homer to Oppian’, but called forth at 
least one memorable dedication, ‘the Corcyraean whip’ at Dodona™, 

So much for Zeus as lord of the lightning. We had yet to 
investigate his relation to the thunder". Lightnings and Thunders 
were on occasion treated by the ancients as momentary gods 
(Usener’s Augenblicksgotter) independent of Zeus”. From this primi- 
tive stage they soon developed into departmental gods (Sondergotter), 
being conceived as divine animals, the horses Bronte and Sterope, 
or as monstrous giants, the Kyklopes Brontes and Steropes, before 
they became wholly human figures, the personifications Bronte and 
Astrape or Sterope. These allegorical powers still survive in the 
folk-poetry of modern Greece®. Commonly, however, thunder 
was connected with a personal god (fpersdnlicher Gott), Zeus the 
thunderer, not indeed as his voice, but as an inarticulate sound 
proceeding from him™, or more often as the rumble of his chariot 
rolling rapidly across the sky—a belief which, originating perhaps 
in Thessaly", certainly entered into Thessalian ritual” and myth”. 


1 Supra p. 810f. 2 Supra p. 810. 3 Supra p. 817 ff. 4 Supra p. 819 f. 
5 Supra p. 820 f. 6 Supra p. 821. 7 Supra p. 822. 8 Supra p. 823 f. 
9 Supra p. 824 ff. 10 Supra p. 826. 11 Supra p. 827 ff. 2 Supra p. 827 f. 
13 Supra p. 828 f. UW Supra p. 829. Supra p. 830 ff. 16 Supra p. 825. 


W Supra p. 831 ff. 18 Supra p. 833- 
54—2 


852 Retrospect 


Zeus as god of Thunder had a wide vogue in the north-western 
parts of Asia Minor.. He bore the title of Brontatos in the Kyzikos | 
district*, that of Avontén in northern and eastern Phrygia As 
Bronton, if not also as Brontatos, he was served with mystic rites 
in a cave, being a divinity akin to Zagreus or Dionysos, whose 
appellative Brémios seems to have meant ‘god of the roaring 
Thunder*.’ We gather that in Phrygia, as in Crete, the worshipper, 
seated on the rocky throne of his god, himself imitated the thunders 
of the reborn Zeus. Cretan timbrel and Phrygian lyre had between 
them transformed the thunder into something strangely like music‘. 

~ * 
* 

And here we pause. It might have been supposed that the 
religion of Zeus, a god of Thunder and Lightning, would be through- 
out a religion of terror. It was not so. The populace, taught by the 
playwrights, was vaguely conscious that above the shifting scenes 
of human life somewhere and somehow Zeus sat enthroned to. mete 
out justice with impartial balance. If he used his thunderbolt, it 
would be to punish the proud and to lay their towering ambitions 
in the dust. The philosophers with clearer insight perceived that 
Zeus must be all or nought. Most of them, amid much diversity. 
of detail, grasped the same essential fact that there is a Power 
Supreme, which in every place and at every moment is engaged 
-on the godlike task of turning chaos into cosmos. Not a few of 
them—Pherekydes’, Herakleitos*, Empedokles’, Platon’, the Stoics® 
—spoke of It, spoke of Him, as Zeus. And to these the thunderbolt 
was but a symbol of his omnipotence. 

It would be easy to parade both the popular and the philosophic 
view by marshalling an array of quotations. I choose rather to ex- 
emplify each by a single characteristic product—on the one hand 
a picture, on the other a poem. 

The Dareios-vase is an Apulian £ra¢ér of magnificent proportions, 
found at Canusium (Canosa) in 1851 and now preserved in the 
Museum at Naples” Its principal design (pl. xxxviii)" represents 
the tragic downfall of the Great King, as the result of his pre- 
sumptuous invasion of Greece. Two and twenty figures are disposed 

1 Supra p. 833 ff. 2 Supra p. 835 ff. 3 Supra p. 838n. 7. 4 Supra p. 839. 

5 Supra i.27f., il. 315 f. 6 Supra i. 28 ff., ii. 12. ” Supra i. 31 f. 

8 Supra i. 311, i. 43 f., 63 n. 0, 100, 9 Supra i. 29 ff. 

10 Heydemann Vasensammi. Neapel p. 571 ff. no. 3253. Height 1.30™; girth 1.93™. 

lH, Heydemann in the Azz. d. Zust. 1873 xlv. 22 ff. pls. B—C, D, Mon. d. Lnst. ix 
pls. 50—51, 52, Reinach Aég. Vases i. 194, 195, 1, 330, 1, 2, A. Conze in the Wien. 
Vorlegebl. vii pls. 6, 6%, A. Baumeister in his Dexkm. i. 408 ff. fig. 449, Furtwangler— 
Reichhold Gy. Vasenmaleret ii. 142 ff. pl. 88 (= my pl. xxxviii). 





Plate XXXVIII 


——— 


| PPT i UAT. RRR RC 





ax, 


\\ 


WW 





he main design on a &ratér from Canusiun IW the Museum at Naples: the doom of Dareios. 


k Furt g R i Ih Pp ssi Messrs F. B \.-G., Mu 





Retrospect 853 


in three registers, of which the lowest shows the vast resources 
available for the expedition. The royal treasurer is seated at a 
table, on which are letters corresponding with our 4 s. d@! His 
right hand arranges the pebbles in their proper columns. His 
left holds an open wax-diptych inscribed ‘100 talents?’ From 
both sides approach the satraps: one brings a pile of golden bowls, 
another a sack full of money, while three others empty-handed 
prostrate themselves in attitudes of grovelling submission. We 
gather that tribute will be exacted to the uttermost farthing: the 
royal project must be carried out, cost what it may. The second 
register reveals the king in council. In the centre is Dareios himself, 
serene and splendid. He is seated, with tiara, sceptre, and sword, 
on a throne worthy of a god. Indeed we recall how Aischylos 
described him as ‘peer of the gods*’ and how Gorgias called his 
son ‘the Persian Zeus‘. To left and right are grouped five of his 
chosen councillors, partly in Greek, partly in oriental, attire: their — 
faces display eager interest and concern, not unmixed with doubt. 
Before Dareios on a circular plinth of gold stands an anxious- 
looking man in traveller’s dress, who uplifts a warning hand. He 
alone dares to dissuade the king from his purpose. If successful, 
he will receive the brick of gold as his reward, but will be scourged 
for opposing the king’s expressed intent®, If unsuccessful,—there 
_waits the executioner with a drawn sword in his hand. In the 
council-chamber, then, there is debate and foreboding. The third 
register transports us to a higher level, where the issue has been 
already determined. We see the gods assembled on the summit of 
Olympos, here indicated simply by the rising ground-line and a 
couple of stars. Above the head of Dareios is seated the genuine 
Zeus, a thunderbolt winged for swift service at his side. Nike, 
leaning on his lap, points to a stately draped figure led forward by 
Athena. She is Hellas, presented to Zeus as the coming victor. 


1 The letters are M (uipcor), Y (xéAcor), H (éxardv), D> (déxa), [1 (révre), O (dBodds), 
< (jpuwBedrcor), T (reraprnudprov). The western Y is retained as a numeral, though super- 


seded for alphabetic purposes by the eastern X (Furtwangler—Reichhold of. c7v. ii. 148). 


2 The inscription should be read TAAN | TA: H, that is ra\(a)p|ra : (€xardv) (P. Kret- 
schmer Die Griechischen Vaseninschriften Giitersloh 1894 p. 213). 

% Aisch. Pers. 633 wakapiras icodaiuwv Bacudevs. 

4 Gorg. frag. 2 Thompson af. Longin. de sublim. 3. 2 Zépins 0 r&v Iepoav Leds 
(supra i. 338 n. 2). 

6 Ail. var. hist. 12. 62. So Com. Quaranta in the Bull. Arch. Nap. Nuova Serie 
1854 ii. 170, H. Heydemann in the 4x. d. Jnst. 1873 xlv. 30, A. Baumeister in his 
Denkm. i. 408. But A. Furtwangler of. cét. ii. 146f. objects that the circular plinth is of 
the wrong shape for a brick of gold and must be viewed as an orator’s platform (8jua). 
Furtwangler’s objection would, I think, apply at least as forcibly to his own proposal. 


854 Retrospect 


On the left are Artemis riding a horned doe! and Apollon with 
a swan on his knee. Artemis may hint at Marathon, where the 
battle took place on her festival*, or may anticipate the sea-fight 
off Artemision *, and the full moon that shone on Salamis*. Apollon 
recalls the Delian confederacy. On the right Asia, with crown and 
sceptre, has fled for refuge to the altar of a terminal goddess, perhaps 
Aphrodite Ouranta’. Before her stands a sinister figure in the 
guise of a Fury with a panther-skin round her shoulders, snakes 
in her hair, and a pair of torches in her hands. This is Apd{Ze] 
‘ Deception, a lying spirit® whose mission is to lure Asia away from 
the protection of the Asiatic goddess’. So the three zones of 
decoration present us with three acts from one historic drama. 
The vase-painter must have been inspired by some lost tragedy, 
not improbably the Perszans of Phrynichos’, for on the circular 
plinth in the very centre of his design is written the single word 
Pérsat. 

The populace, assembled in the theatre, regarded Zeus god of 
Thunder and Lightning as a power that on sundry momentous 
occasions had intervened to punish pride. And what of the philo- 
sophers? They saw in the ‘ever-living bolt’ a pledge and promise 
of continuous divine activity—witness one nearly contemporary 
document, the Stoic Hymn to Zeus*. Let us, before closing the 
volume, join Kleanthes in that great ascription of praise: 

1 Supra p. 465 f. 

2 Mommsen este d. Stadt Athen p. 175 ff. 

3 G. Hirschfeld in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Luc. il. 1443. 

4 Plout. de glor. Ath. 7, cited by H. Heydemann in the Anz. d. Just. 1873 xlv. 42 
and in his Vasensamml. Neapel p. 578 n. 9. 

> H. Heydemann in the Azz. d. mst. 1873 xlv. 38 f., A. Baumeister in his Dexkm. 
i. 409. 

8 Cp. 1 Kings 22. 22. 

7 A. Furtwangler of. cit. ii. 149 aptly quotes Aisch. Pers. 93 f. do\dunrw & dmarav 
Beod | ris dvnp Ovards advéer; Jd. 7b. ii. 148 interprets the action of Apate aright (‘Die 
Bewegung der Apate ist wohl so zu erklaren, dass sie Asia auffordert, aufzustehen und 
ihr zu folgen dahiniiber, wo sie hinschielt, nach der Hellas’). 

8.O, Jahn in the Arch. Zett. 1860 xviii. 41 ff. suggested the Aixacoe 7 Tépoas 7} DivOwkor 
of Phrynichos (Souid. s.v. Ppvvcxos); A. Furtwangler of. cz¢. ii. 149, a later adaptation 
of the same. 

9 Kleanthes frag. 48 Pearson ap. Stob. ec/. 1. 1. 12 p. 25, 3 ff. Wachsmuth. For the 
text I follow the excellent edition of A. C. Pearson 7he Fragments of Zeno and Cleanthes 
London 1891 p. 274 ff. There is much useful matter in the earlier commentaries of 
G. C. F. Mohnike A7veanthes der Stoiker Greifswald 1814 1. 3 ff., J. F. H. Schwabe 
Specimen theologiae comparativae exhibens KAKANOOTS TMNON EIS AIA, cum disciplina 
Christiana comparatum, etc. Jenae 1819 p. 7 ff.; C. Petersen Cleanthis Stoict Hymnus in 
Fovem auctori suo vindicatus ad etusgue doctrinam enarratus Hamburgi 1829 p. 1 ff. 
See also U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff Commentariolum grammaticum 111 (1. Clean- 
thes) Gottingae 1889 p. 3 ff., W. L. Newman, ‘Cleanthes’ Hymn to Zeus’ in the Class. 
Rev. 1892 vi. 181, J. von Arnim Stotcorum veterum fragmenta Leipzig 1905 i. 121 ff. 

0. 537, 7a. in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Enc. xi. 558 ff. 


Retrospect 855 


KvOLoT GPavaTwv, ToNVoVUME, TayKpAaTEes aici, 

Zed, pvoews apynyé, vowou péta Trayta KvBepvor, 
Naipe o€ yap Tavtecat Oéurs Ovntoior mpocavdar. 
€x gov yap yévos éopér, + you" piunwa Nayovtes 
Movvol, doa Cwer Te Kai Eprrer Ovnt emi yaiav: 

T® oe KaOUULYHTw Kal oY KpPaTOS alév déEiow. 


Most glorious of immortals, many-named?, 
Almighty Zeus, creation’s primal lord, 

Whose lawful government is over all, 

Hail !—for we mortals unto thee may speak. 
We are thine offspring? ; we alone of all things 
That live and move on earth can copy God. 
Thee therefore I will praise, thy power will sing. 


' Corrections either save or sacrifice yévos éouév. On the one hand, J. J. Scaliger 
cj. 6xou (‘corpus enim éxnua Wuxijs’), R. F. P. Brunck cj. ifs, C. W. Ahlwardt cj. icou 
(‘wir sind theilhaftig geworden des Bildes deiner Gleichheit, des Bildes von dir selber’), 
C. Petersen cj. 6 oof, T. Bergk cj. ddov, H. Usener cj. * dis (cp. vdetv etc.), C. Wachsmuth 
Cj. vod cod TuAua or a 67 cod TuAUua, W. L. Newman cj. ayod (‘leader’), E. B. Birks cj. 
ixvouvs. On the other hand, F. Gedike cj. éx cof, A. Meineke cj. yevduerOa dé-you, 
C. Wachsmuth cj. #ou Tiunua (‘linguae honorem’), A. C. Pearson formerly cj. yerouerda 
Mévou or €x god, J. von Arnim cj. yévos elo’ Hxov ulunua. 

I am indebted to Prof. Pearson for the following new and attractive solution (June 17, 
1922): ‘I have looked up my notes and find that I have suggested #eo0 to Powell and 
E. V. Arnold... I should account for the mysterious #xov as a supra-linear gloss é.e. 7 Xov 
=7 Xpwrod. That this would be a natural Christian gloss may perhaps be supported by 
1 Cor. xi. 1 puunrat pou ylvecbe Kadws Kayo Xpiorod, Eph. v. 1 ylvecGe obv pupnral rod 
Geov, x Th. i. 6 miunral quey éyernOnre kal tod Kupiov. Now from the Stoic point of 
view cf. Musonius af. Stob. flor. 117. 8 dvO@pwros plunua Be00 udvoy Tov érvyelwv, which 
sounds like an echo of Cleanthes. The only objection I see is that it involves the adoption 
of yevéuerGa, and I don’t like to suggest confusion with Aratus.’ 

2 E. Zeller The Stoics, Epicureans and Sceptics® trans. O. J. Reichel London 1880 
Pp- 358: ‘ To the Stoics, as to their predecessor Heraclitus, Zeus is the one primary Being, 
who has engendered, and again absorbs into himself, all things and all Gods. He is the 
universe as a unity, the primary fire, the ether, the spirit of the world, the universal 
reason, the general law or destiny. All other Gods, as being parts of the world, are only 
parts and manifestations of Zeus—only special names of the one God who has many 
names.’ Jd. 7b. p. 358 n. 2 cp. Diog. Laert. 7. 147 Qedv & eivar Sov abdvarov, Noy.Kor, 
TéNELov 7) VoEpov ev EvOatmovia, KaKOD TavTods avemidEeKTOV, MpovonTLKdY KdgMoU TE Kal TOY Ev 
Kooum’ uy eivae mévtor avOpwrbuop pov. elvar dé Tov pev Onutoupydy T&v OAwv Kal woTEp 
marépa mdvTwv Kow@s Te Kal TO mépos avToD Td SiAKoy dia mavTwv, 6 wodAais Tpoonyopiars 
mpocovoudverdar Kata Tas duvduers. Aia wev yap pace Ov bv Ta mavTa, Zijva dé KaXovar 
map’ daov Tod Hv airios éotw 7 Sid TOO Cy Kexwpnxev, x.7.X. For Kleanthes in particular 
see Plout. de comm. not. 31 adda Xptourtos kat KAXedvOns euremdyxdres, ws Eros ele, 
T@ Noyw Oeay Tov obpaydr, Tiy yh, Tov dépa, THY Oddarrav, obdéva TGV ToTOUTWY APBaproY 
ov’ dtdvov droNeXolract, AI udvov To Ards, els Ov mdvTas KaTayaNloKover TOUS aXouS, 
Plout. de aud. poet. 11 det dé unde TSv dvoudtwy awedGs dxovew, ara Thy wev KXedvOous 
Tadav TaparreloOa. Karepwvevera yap eorw bre mpotmo.ovmevos eEnyetobar TO (Ll. 3. 
320) ‘‘ZLed mdrep, "Lindev wedéwy” kal 7d (Z/. 16. 233) “Zed dva, Awdwvate,” KeNevwr 
dvayryvioKe wd’ év, ws Tov Ex THS ys dvadumibpuevoy aépa dia Thy avddoow avadwowvatov 
évra, schol. B.L.T. 77. 16. 233 Taves d€ ‘‘dvadwiwvaie” td’ Ev, mapa THy avddocw Tov 
ayadav. 3 Supra i. 664 n. 3. 


856 Retrospect 


\ on cal 58 / € f A A 
aot On Tas b5e KOTpMOS, EXLTTOMEVOS TEpL yaiar, 
/ * ” \ ‘ a a 
meiOeTal, ) Kev yns, Kal ExwV LTO oElo KpaTEiTaL* 
a if > 
TOLoV EYELS UToEpYyOY aviKHTots Evi Yepaly © 
’ , / +] 3 
augonkn, TupoevT , aevC@ovTa® Kepavvov* 
an AY ¢ A A / / > > t 3 
Tov yap bro TANYHS Poews TavT epplya<aw>*: 
Gl \ a 
@ ov. KaTevOuvets KoLVOY AOYoY, Os dla TAYTOY 
E ; r 
Porta, miryvUmeEvos peyadols wLKpols TE pdeco 
id , 
[@s Toaaos yeyaws tratos Bacideds dia TavTos,]4 
oved€ Te yiyvetat Epyov eri YOovi cod dixa, Saipor, 
vw  d OE cal / es > \5 f 
ovte Kat aidépiov Oetov TroXov ovT évi® ToVTH, 
\ £ U , * > 
TAY oTTOTa pélovar KaKol opeTépnow'® avoiats* 


Lo, the whole world’ revolving round the earth 
Obeys thy lead and wills to do thy will’. 

Such the strong help thou hast in hands supreme, 
A two-edged, fiery, ever-living bolt’. 

Beneath its blows all nature shuddering reels. 
Herewith thou makest one great law to rule 

The universe, larger and lesser lights. 

[So vast the power of thy kingly sway.] ~ 

Nay, nought on earth befalls apart from thee, 
Nor in the heaven above, nor in the deep, 

Save folly wrought by the wicked”. Yet here too 


1 J. von Arnim keeps 76 as read by cod. F. R. F. P. Brunck cj. évi, A. Meineke 
Cj. Mera. 

* U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff and J. von Arnim keep the rupéevta defwovra of 
cod. F, the hiatus notwithstanding. C. Wachsmuth corr. mupdev7’, alecgwovra. A. C. 
Pearson’s Gefwovra might be defended by Od. 13. 109 devdovra and the like. 

3 Cod. F has épyya followed by space for ten letters. Fulvius Ursinus cj. épplyacw. 
C. Wachsmuth says: ‘num fuit Zed, wavr’ &ppryev?’? U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorft 
cj. TAnyH piocews epprye Ta mdvra. A.C. Pearson cj. épya <daudobn>. J. von Arnim 
cj. wav’ Epya <rTedeirar>. 

4 A. Meineke assumed a lacuna before this line. A. C. Pearson condemned the line 
as spurious or corrupt. J. von Arnim cj. @ od Téc0s yeyaws Uraros Bacihe’s bua mayrés. 

> So R. F. P. Brunck for él cod. F. 

® Cod. F, followed by J. von Arnim, reads ogerépacow. 

7 Diog. Laert. 7. 138 kal ari dé rh Siaxbounow Tdv dorépwy Kdcuov elvar héyoust. 

8 Cp. Kleanthes frag. gi Pearson af. Epiktet. man. 53 dyov 6é w’, & Zed, cal ovy 7 
mempwuéevn, | oor 100? juiv eiud diareraryuévos, | ws EWoual y doxvos: Hv dé wy OédAw | KaKos 
yevduevos, ovdev ATrov €Wouat with A. C. Pearson’s commentary. 

® Kleanthes is building on the foundations of Herakleitos (supra i. 28 n. 6). 

10 A. C. Pearson ad loc.: ‘The explanations given by the Stoics of this weak point 
in their system are hopelessly confused and contradictory, as may be seen from an 
examination of the passages cited in the notes to Zeller, p. 189—193.... Wwe may 
perhaps suppose that Cleanthes accounted for the existence of moral evil somewhat as 
follows :—evil is not directly due to God, but is a necessary accompaniment of the 
process, whereby he created the world out of himself. At the same time, the omnipotence 
of God is vindicated by the consideration that evil is ultimately swallowed up in good, 


Refrospett 857 


adda od Kal TA Tepiocd <> érictaca. dptia Oeivat, 
Kal Koopelv TakOT WA Kal ov pira aol dira éoTiv?, 
ode yap eis v Tavta® cuvyppoKas écOXa Kaxoiowr, 
Oo &va yiyverOa wavtwv Noyov aiev édvta, 

ov devyovtes Gow boot OvnTaV KaKol Eict, 
dvapopot, of T ayabav wey del KTHoW TobéorTES 
ovT ecop@at Bod Kowvor vdopuov, odtE KNUOVEL)Y, 

@ Kev TeLOopuevor adv vo Biov éaOrov Exorev. 

avtolt 8 av@ opudcw dvot Kaxdv ddXos err’ édXO*, 
ot wev Umrép Sons orrovdyny ducépictov éyovres, 

ol © émi Kepdocvvas TeTpaupévor ovderi KOTLO, 
adXou © els dveow Kal cwpatos dea Epya 

Thou knowest how to even up the odd, 

Order disorder, and turn hate to love‘. 

Thou hast so welded all things into one, 

Joined good with evil, that there runs for ever 
One law through all, which bad men scorn and scape. 
Ill-fated folk! They hanker after wealth, 

And neither see God’s universal law, 

Nor hear it and in wise obedience 

Attain the life worth living. But themselves 
Speed their own witless way to diverse ills— 
Some sunk in desperate strife for glory vain, 
Some bent on money-making’s reckless quest, 
Others on ease and bodily delights. 


and that the apparent irregularity of nature is in reality only a phase in the working of 
a higher law.’ 

1 So H. Sauppe for episod éricraca: cod. F, which is kept by U. von Wilamowitz- 
Moellendorff. 

2 U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff cj. revxew for éoriv, to escape the hiatus. 

3 R. F. P. Brunck cj. dravra. 

4 U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff suspects édow. 

5 Cod. F has dvev xaxod addXos er’ &\Xa. Fulvius Ursinus cj. cadod. H. Sauppe corr. 
kaxoy and &\X\o. C. Wachsmuth restored dvoi xaxdy diAXos er’ dAdo. U. von Wilamowitz- 
Moellendorff, on the ground that honours, wealth, and pleasure were not kaka but 
adtagopa, would read divev Ndyou d&\Xos em’ GANa. 

6 It is interesting to remember that Kleanthes hailed from Assos, where there was 
a cult of Zeus ‘OmovGos (J. R. S. Sterrett in the Papers of the American School of Classical 
Studies at Athens 1882—1883 i. 35 ff. no. 15, 1 ff. 6 iepeds ToU LeBacrov Oljeotv Kaicapos, 
6 dé av[r]|és kal mdrpios Bacied|s Kal iepeds Tod Ards T\od ‘Omova(t)ov, Kal yuu|vaciapxos, 
Kotvros Ad\\Ncos Bidéracpos Thy | crody avéOnxev Oem K\aioape DeBaorw Kal 7H d7\uw 
k.T.A.), whose title—perhaps a variant form of ‘Omodwios, “Ouod@os (A. Boeckh on the 
Corp. inscr. Gr. ii no. 3569, Gruppe Gr. Myth. Rel. pp. 309 n. 9g, 1117 n. 1, O. Jessen 
in Pauly—Wissowa Real-Lnc. viii. 2263 f., 2269. See further 2zfra Append. B Boiotia)— 
was probably connected by folk-etymology with dudvola (cp. Istros af. Phot. /ex., Souid. 
sv. “Opoddios Lets’... “Iorpos dé év rq 18’ ris Luvaywyis, dia 7d map’ Alodedae 7d 
dmovonriKkoy Kal elpnvixov Guodov héyer Oat). 


858 Retrospect 


ovish sampateee ...€m Grote & adr Héportes', 
oTEVOOVTES ada TauTav évavTia THVOE ryevér Bat. 
arra Led ravowpe, Kerawvedés, apyixépavve’, 
avOparrous <péev'?> pvov arretporvvns aro Avypijs, 
Nv ov, Tatep, oxédacov Wuyis aro, dos dé Kuphoat 
yvepuns, ) Ticvvos ov Sixns wéTa Tavta KUBepvas*, 
opp av tiunOévtes apeiBoperOa ce Tin, 

UuvoovTes TA oa Epya Oinverés, WS eTréOLKE 

Ovntov édv7’, érrel ov TE BpoTois yépas AXXO Tt perfor, 
ovTe Oeols, 7) Kowvov Gel vomoy ev Sixn bmveiv. 


Yea, diverse ills they reap, now this, now that, 
Though fain to win the very opposite. 

But thou, Zeus, giver of all, with thy black cloud 
And glittering bolt®, save men from folly’s bane. 
O Father, cleanse our soul, grant us to find 
Wisdom wherewith thou governest all aright®, 
That honoured thus we too may honour thee, 
Hymning thy deeds for ever, as befits 

A mortal man; for, mortal or immortal, 

None hatha greater guerdon than to hymn 
The common rule rightly for evermore. 


1 So cod. F with space for sixteen letters at the beginning of the line. A. H. L. 
Heeren cj. addd\oré y’. H. Usener cj. a\\orev. A. Meineke cj. pépovra. U. von 
Wilamowitz-Moellendorff prints <ovdé ror’ és réXos HAOov, > em’ Ghdore 5’ GdAdNa Pépovrar. 
J. von Arnim ‘exempli causa’ supplies <da\\a kaxots éréxupoavy>, én’ GddoTe & adda 
pépovTa. 

2 So A. Meineke for dpxixépavve cod. F, which is kept by U. von Wilamowitz- 
Moellendorff. 

% J. J. Scaliger add. wév. C. Petersen cj. elpvocat. A. C. Pearson cj. éxptov. U. von 
Wilamowitz-Moellendorff transposes piov uev, which may be right. 

4 C. Wachsmuth, A. C. Pearson, and J. von Arnim prefer the spelling xuBepvas. 

5 Supra i. 31 0. 4. 

° Herakleitos again (/rag. 19 Bywater, 41 Diels af. Diog. Laert. 9. 1 eivac yap év 76 
copy, éricracba yywunv, orén éxuBépyynce mavTa dia TavTwr). 


PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN 
BY W. LEWIS AT THE 
CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS 








ie hee 











ne 
mn 1 ® 7 a £ 
7 





DATE DUE 


setsoy | 

SNS oo] aug a 2 pong | 

as aes EE 
MAR ow al Sey 
| usa fmm | 


tL sefy MART 5 700 
20 8 Oy 
01 7996 L023 h 
BIHAR 07 Dif 
uae 


DEMCO 38-297 


BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY 


muh A 


3.1197 01154 5164 


—— 


SeSsessssisce 
peste seers tei t eas 


Sitgijiit: 
s3323 


SESHE 
eee: 
deseses 
Sesat 


meee teepeset erate 


Siissrssseiesrie=;s. 
prretestiieees 


2SS5258sS2isSs2s25Ssi52353 
pSetiissslelece $33 


pepeeterestesrerr rir eirsr sr istss 
tetera 


HSS 
> HAS 
; . Teele ete rT 
sts-te 2"; 





