DESSERTS 


'^^mw*  ¥i^'&h&m 


Copyright^0 


-t^-v  C 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


365 

DESSERTS 

A  dessert  for  every  day  in  the  year 


Selected  from 

MARION    HARLAND,     MRS.    LINCOLN 

GOOD  HOUSEKEEPING,  TABLE  TALK 

AND  OTHERS 

I 


Philadelphia 

GEORGE  W.  JACOBS  &  CO. 

103-105   South  Fifteenth  Street 


791'- 


V)J 


Library  of  Congress 

Two  Copies  Received 
N&V  22  1900 

Copyright  entry 

FIRST  COPY. 

2nd  Copy  Dtliv«red  to 


Copyright,   1900,  by 
George  W.  Jacobs  &  Co. 


JANUARY. 


i. — Mince  Pie. 

Two  lbs.  lean  beef  chopped  fine,  2  lbs.  suet 
chopped  fine,  2^  lbs.  stoned  raisins,  2)4 
lbs.  cleaned  currants,  \y2  lbs.  sliced  citron, 
1^  lbs.  light  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoonful 
each  of  powdered  cloves,  mace,  cinnamon 
and  allspice  :  season  to  taste,  1  y2  pints  brandy. 
When  making  the  pies,  to  every  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mince  meat,  add  1  of  chopped 
apple. 

2. — Velvet  Cream. 

One-half  box  gelatine,  1^  cups  sherry 
wine,  1  lemon  (grated  rind  and  juice),  1^ 
cups  sugar,  1^  pints  cream.  Soak  the 
gelatine  in  the  wine,  add  the  lemon  and  the 
sugar,  and  heat  all  together  till  the  gelatine 
is  dissolved.  Then  strain  and  set  it  away  to 
cool.  When  nearly  cold,  but  before  it  begins 
to  stiffen  add  the  cream.  Beat  till  nearly 
1 


January. 

stiff  enough  to  drop,  then  pour  into  moulds, 
and  let  it  remain  till  stiff  as  blanc  mange. 
— Permission  of  Mrs.  M.  J.  Lincoln. 

3. — Cocoanut  Sponge. 
Thicken  1  pint  of  milk,  in  which  is  dis- 
solved y  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch.  Cook  thoroughly  in 
a  vessel  set  into  boiling  water.  When  cooked 
and  boiling  hot,  beat  this  into  the  whites  of  3 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  After  standing  a  few  min- 
utes, add  1  cup  of  grated  cocoanut.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  and  turn  into  a  mould  with 
grated  cocoanut  on  top.  Serve  with  cream 
sweetened  and  flavored  with  wine. 

4. — Ginger  Pudding. 
One-eighth  of  a  pound  of  suet  chopped 
fine,  y2  cup  of  molasses,  %  of  a  cup  of  water, 
y2  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  y2  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  lit- 
tle water,  flour  enough  to  thicken.  Put  the 
soda  in  the  last  thing  before  the  flour.  Put 
in  a  mould  or  pudding  bag  and  boil  2  hours. 
Sauce — 1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  wine-glass  of  sherry. 
Beat  all  to  a  cream. 

2 


January* 

5.— Potato  Pie. 

Boil  either  white  or  sweet  potatoes  until 
well  done;  mash  and  sift  them  through  a 
coarse  wire  sieve ;  to  a  pint  of  pulp  add  3 
pints  of  fresh  milk ;  a  tablespoonful  melted 
butter;  2  eggs;  a  teacupful  of  sugar;  y2 
teaspoonful  salt ;  nutmeg  or  lemon  to  flavor. 
Bake  it  with  an  under-crust  of  rich  paste. 

6. — Orange  Parfait. 

Whip  1  quart  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Add  1  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  to  1  cup  of 
orange  juice,  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Mix  this  carefully  with  the  cream, 
turn  into  a  mould,  cover  the  top  with  a  sheet 
of  greased  writing  paper,  and  put  on  the  lid. 
Pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  2  hours. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

7.— Baked  Custard. 

Pour  a  quart  of  hot  milk  over  4  or  5  well 
beaten  eggs.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  butter. 
Season  with  vanilla,  rose-water  or  nutmeg, 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  Bake  in  cup  or  pud- 
ding form. 

3 


January. 

8.— White  Grape  Pie. 

Line  one  pie  dish  with  an  under  crust  and 
bake.  Make  an  orange  or  lemon  jelly  from 
gelatine.  When  the  crust  is  cool  fill  with 
white  grapes ;  when  the  jelly  is  stiff  pour  it 
among  and  over  the  grapes,  stand  aside  until 
perfectly  cold  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

g. — Delicate  Pudding. 
One  cup  water,  i  cup  fruit  juice,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  cornstarch,  ^  salt  spoonful  salt, 
sugar  to  taste,  3  eggs.  Boil  the  water  and 
fruit  juice  (orange,  lemon  or  canned  cherries, 
quince  or  apricot).  Wet  the  cornstarch 
in  a  little  cold  water,  stir  into  the  boiling 
syrup  and  cook  10  minutes.  Add  salt  and 
sugar  to  taste ;  the  quantity  depending  upon 
the  fruit.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  till 
foamy,  and  stir  into  the  starch.  Turn  at 
once  into  a  mould.  Serve  cold  with  boiled 
custard  sauce  made  with  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs. — Permission  of  Mrs.  M.  J.  Lincoln. 

10. — Norfolk  Cream. 
Line  a  mould  with   1   pound  of  candied 
plums,  having  first  removed  the  stones,  and 
4 


January. 

spread  the  plums  out  as  thin  as  possible. 
Make  the  plain  Bavarian  cream,  and  when 
thick  enough  to  drop,  take  out  y$  and  color 
with  cochineal ;  add  y2  cup  of  candied  cher- 
ries cut  in  halves.  Put  a  layer  of  the  white 
cream  next  the  plums,  and  fill  the  centre 
with  the  pink.  When  ready  to  serve  loosen 
edges  with  a  knife  and  invert  carefully. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Permission  of 
Mrs.  M.  J.  Lincoln. 

ii. — Paradise  Pudding. 
Three  eggs,  %  pound  bread  crumbs,  3 
apples,  currants,  1  teaspoonful  extract  lemon, 
nutmeg,  salt.  Mince  the  apples,  beat  the 
eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  bread  crumbs 
and  other  ingredients.  Rub  the  currants  in 
a  small  quantity  of  flour  before  they  are  put 
into  the  mixture.  Boil  1  hour  and  a  half. 
To  be  eaten  hot  with  sauce. 

12. — Lemon  Cream  Pudding. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  large 
lemon,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water; 
simmer  until  it  thickens;  take  from  the  fire 
and  stir  in  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
5 


January* 

with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  turn  into  a 
glass  dish  and  serve  icy  cold. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

13.— Polish  Tarlets. 
Have  ready  some  little  patty  pans  greased, 
also  an  egg  beaten,  %  of  a  cupful  of  milk. 
Sweeten  and  stir  well,  then  take  %  of  a 
pound  of  lard  and  %  of  a  pound  of  flour. 
Mix  flour  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  moisten 
with  a  very  little  water.  Roll  out  thin. 
Take  %  of  the  lard  and  spread,  sprinkle 
slightly  with  flour ;  roll  up  and  out  again  4 
times,  using  lard  and  flour  each  time.  Line 
the  patty  tins  and  pour  in  a  little  milk  and 
egg  mixture.  Bake  very  quickly,  when  taken 
from  the  oven,  with  a  brush,  glace  with  j4 
of  the  white  of  an  egg  and  place  tiny  pieces 
of  jelly  in  each.  Be  very  speedy  in  making 
these. 

14. — Moonshine  Pie. 
Add  2  even  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar  to  1  cup  of  thick  sweet  cream  and 
stand  aside  to  get  very  cold,  but  not  frozen. 
Pour  the  cream  into  the  glass,  add  the  white 
of  an  eggf  and  with  No.  1  Keystone  egg 
6 


January. 

beater  beat  slowly  to  a  froth.  Bake  the 
crusts ;  fill  with  the  cream,  dot  over  with  jelly 
or  preserved  strawberries. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

15. — Pommes  Beurries. 

Cut  stale  bread  into  small  square  slices, 
spread  them  in  a  flat  baking  dish,  which 
must  be  well  buttered,  core  some  large  sour 
apples  and  put  1  on  each  slice  of  bread. 
Fill  up  the  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  apples 
with  butter  and  sugar.  Put  into  the  oven, 
and  when  partly  cooked,  draw  to  the  oven 
door,  and  refill  with  butter  and  sugar.  Do 
this  2  or  3  times.  When  thoroughly  baked 
serve  hot  on  a  flat  dish  with  whipped  cream 
or  soft  custard. 

16. — Sponge  Pudding. 

One-fourth  cup  sugar,  j4  cup  flour,  1  pint 
milk  boiled,  }£  cup  butter,  yolks  of  5  eggs, 
whites  of  5  eggs.  Mix  the  sugar  and  flour, 
wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  milk.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  and 
is  smooth;  add  the  butter,  and  when  well 
mixed  stir  it  into  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  the 
7 


January. 

eggs,  and  then  add  the  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  in  cup  or  shallow  dish,  or  in  paper  case 
in  a  hot  oven.  Place  the  dish  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water  while  in  the  oven.  Serve  with 
creamy  sauce. — Permission  of  Mrs.  M.  J. 
Lincoln. 


17. — Saratoga  Pudding. 

One-fourth  of  a  pound  bread  crumbs,  ^ 
of  a  pound  of  suet,  %  of  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants, 1^  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  lemon 
peel,  1  teaspoonful  extract  of  nutmeg.  Make 
this  into  5  or  6  small  cakes.  Fry  them  brown 
and  serve  with  sweet  sauce. 


18. — Venice  Pudding. 

Make  a  custard  of  5  eggs,  y2  pint  milk 
sweetened  to  taste,  and  flavored  with  1  tea- 
spoonful  lemon  j  when  nearly  cold  pour  it 
into  a  mould ;  soak  a  sponge  biscuit  and  a 
half  in  brandy  or  wine;  let  it  float  on  the 
custard ;  when  quite  set,  cut  some  preserved 
fruit  such  as  pineapple  in  pieces  and  drop  it 
into  the  mould.  To  be  turned  out  when  re- 
quired. 

8 


January. 

19. — Boston  Pudding. 

One  pound  raisins,  1  lb.  currants,  1  lb. 
suet,  1  lb.  bread  crumbs,  ^  lb.  moist  sugar, 
8  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  flour,  %  lb.  mixed 
candied  fruit,  1  wine-glass  brandy,  1  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  extract  of  lemon,  almond, 
nutmeg  and  cloves,  and  a  little  mace ;  stone 
and  shred  the  raisins  rather  small,  chop  the 
suet  finely  and  rub  the  bread  until  all  the 
lumps  are  well  broken  ;  cut  the  candied  fruit 
into  thin  shreds,  and  mix  all  these  ingredients 
well  together,  adding  the  sugar.  Beat  the 
eggs  to  a  strong  froth,  and  as  they  are  beaten 
drop  in  the  extracts ;  stir  them  into  the  dry 
ingredients,  mix  well  and  add  the  brandy. 
Tie  the  pudding  firmly  in  the  cloth,  and  boil 
for  6  hours.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

20. — Fritters  with  Lemon  Sauce. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  light,  add  }4  cup 
of  milk,  1  salt  spoonful  of  salt  and  a  cup  of 
flour.  Beat  well.  Add  1  tablespoonful  olive 
oil  and  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff*  froth  ;  mix  with 
the  batter,  beat  again.  Fry  by  the  spoonful 
in  deep  hot  fat.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 
9 


January. 

Lemon  Sauce. — Beat  to  a  cream  ij4  cups 
of  sugar  and  ^  CUP  °f  butter;  add  i  egg 
beaten  light  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  beat 
together  thoroughly;  put  in  the  farina  boiler, 
add  1  ]/2  cups  boiling  water,  gradually  stirring 
all  the  while,  serve  at  once. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

21. — Chocolate  Pie. 

Scald  1  pint  of  milk.  Dissolve  3  level 
tablespoon fu Is  of  cornstarch  in  a  very  little 
cold  water :  beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  until  light ;  add  to 
this  the  cornstarch  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  chocolate  dissolved  over  hot  water. 
Stir  this  into  the  scalded  milk,  until  it  thick- 
ens, take  from  the  fire,  add  1  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  and  cool.  Line  a  pie  plate  with  crust, 
and  bake;  then  fill  with  the  custard  and 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

22. — Yankee  Puffs. 
Two  ounces  butter,  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
3  eggs  (whites  and  yolks  separate),  3  tea- 
10 


January. 

spoonfuls  milk,  3  teaspoonfuls  flour,  1  salt 
spoonful  of  salt,  ij4  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar 
and  well  beaten  yolk,  then  the  milk,  which 
should  be  salted,  dredge  in  the  flour  by  de- 
grees, and  when  they  are  well  mixed  add  the 
flavoring  and  whites  of  eggs,  previously  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  well  buttered  tea- 
cups about  15  or  20  minutes  till  of  a  light 
brown.  As  the  puffs  rise  very  much,  the 
cups  must  not  be  filled.  Serve  as  soon  as 
done  with  sweet  sauce. 

23. — Caramel  Custards. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  until  very  light 
with  y2  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar ;  add  grad- 
ually to  this  1  quart  of  milk,  ^  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  3  teaspoonfuls  of  caramel.  Turn 
into  the  custard  cups,  place  them  in  a  pan 
containing  boiling  water ;  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  until  set.  The  success  of  the  cus- 
tards depends  upon  the  baking  and  they 
must  be  watched  carefully  so  as  to  remove 
them  from  the  oven  as  soon  as  they  are 
properly  set. — From  "  Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

11 


January. 

24. — Liffy  Pudding. 

One-half  pound  apples  chopped  very  fine, 
the  yolks  of  5  eggs  well  beaten,  juice  of  1 
lemon  with  rind  grated,  3  ounces  melted  but- 
ter, %  pound  sugar  (fine).  The  buiter  must 
be  put  in  after  all  trie  other  ingredients  are 
well  mixed.  To  be  baked  with  a  rim  of  puff 
paste  around  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

25. — Macaroni  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  macaroni  broken  into  inch 
lengths,  1  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs,  ^  of  a 
lemon  juice  and  grated  peel,  2  tablespoon fuls 
butter,  24  cllP  °f  sugar.  Simmer  the  mac- 
aroni in  half  the  milk  until  tender.  While 
hot  stir  in  the  butter,  the  yolks  well  beaten 
up  with  the  sugar,  the  lemon  and  lastly  the 
whipped  whites.  Bake  in  a  buttered  mold 
about  Yr>  hour,  or  until  nicely  browned. — 
From  "Common  Sense  in  the  Household," 
Marion  Harland,  Copyright  by  Charles  Scrib- 
ner's  Sons. 

26. — Fried  Apple  Pies. 

Stew   1   qt.  dried  apples  and   1   lemon  to- 
gether ;  sweeten  to  taste,  add  a  little  salt  but 
no  spice.     For  crust  use  1  tablespoonful  of 
lard,  1  qt.  flour,  1  tablespoonful  yeast,  and 
12 


January. 

water  to  form  a  stiff  batter,  let  it  stand  over 
night,  or  until  light.  When  desired  for  use 
add  a  very  little  soda,  and  knead  (not  very 
stiff).  Roll  out  the  crust,  cut  in  rounds  with 
a  saucer ;  lay  a  spoonful  of  apple  on  y2  ;  fold 
the  other  over ;  trim  the  edges  carefully,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

27. — Orange  Custard. 

Scald  1  pint  of  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  light  with  ^  of  a  cup  of  granulated 
sugar.  Slowly  pour  the  milk  on  the  eggs 
beating  all  the  while,  and  when  well  mixed 
put  back  into  the  farina  boiler  with  chippings 
of  the  rind  of  the  orange.  Cook  for  2  min- 
utes or  until  smooth  and  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  strain 
and  put  away  to  cool. — From  "Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

28. — Apricot  Bavarian  Cream. 
Cover  j4  box  of  gelatine  with  y£  cup  of 
cold  water  and  stand  aside  for  y2  hour. 
Press  1  can  of  apricots  through  a  colander. 
Whip  1  quart  cream.  Now  stir  the  gelatine 
over  boiling  water  until  it  is  dissolved  j  then 
strain  it  into  the  apricots ;  mix  and  turn  it  into  a 
13 


January. 

tin  basin ;  stand  the  basin  in  a  pan  of  ice  water 
or  snow,  and  stir  constantly  and  slowly  around 
the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  pan  until  the 
mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  carefully 
yz  the  whipped  cream,  mix  carefully,  turn  into 
a  mould  and  stand  away  to  harden.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream  around  the  mould  after  it 
has  been  turned  out  into  a  pretty  dish. 
—From  "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

29. — Snow  Balls,  No.  1. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  light,  then  add 
gradually  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  heating 
all  the  while.  When  very  light,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  1  cup  of  flour,  and  beat 
again.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff, 
dry  froth,  add  quickly  to  the  batter  with  1 
rounded  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Fill 
well-buttered  cups  y$  full  and  bake  for  20 
minutes.  Roll  in  powdered  sugar,  and  serve 
with  sauce.— From  "  Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

30. — Queen  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,    1%   cupfuls  of  bread 

crumbs,   yolks  of  4  beaten  eggs  and  sugar  to 

taste ;  bake  until  done,  taking  care  not  to  have 

it  watery.     Whip  the  whites  of  4  eggs  and  a 

14 


January. 

tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  flavor  with  lemon. 
Spread  over  the  pudding  a  layer  of  sweet- 
meats or  jelly,  then  cover  with  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  and  brown  lightly.  Serve  cold  with 
cream. 

31. — Cornstarch  Pudding. 
Boil  1  quart  of  milk,  then  beat  the  yolks  of 
4  eggs  with  4  tablespoon  fuls  of  cornstarch 
and  a  little  milk ;  flavor  to  taste,  turn  into  a 
pudding-dish  and  bake;  beat  the  whites  of  4 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  4  tablespoon  fuls 
powdered  sugar,  flavor  a  little  and  cover  the 
pudding  with  the  mixture ;  set  in  the  oven 
and  brown  slightly. 


15 


FEBRUARY. 


i.— Fruit  Charlotte. 

One-half  box  gelatine,  }4  cup  cold  water,  i 
cup  sugar,  i  j4  cups  water  and  i  cup  lemon 
juice,  or  i  pint  orange  juice  and  i  cup  water. 
Yolks  of  4  eggs,  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  dozen 
lady  fingers.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water 
till  soft ;  make  a  syrup  with  the  sugar  and 
fruit  juice ;  when  boiling,  pour  it  into  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs ;  stir  well  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  till  it  thickens ;  add  the 
soaked  gelatine,  stir  till  dissolved  and  strain 
at  once  into  a  granite  pan  placed  in  ice 
water;  beat  occasionally  till  cold,  but  not 
hard  ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  then  beat  all  together  till  it  thick- 
ens. When  almost  stiff  enough  to  drop  pour 
at  once  into  moulds  lined  with  cake.  Keep 
on  ice  and  serve  with  or  without  powdered 
sugar  and  cream.  Vary  the  fruit  by  stewing 
1  lb.  of  canned  peaches,  pineapple  or  apricots, 
16 


February. 

in  one  cup  each  of  sugar  and  water  till  soft, 
then  sift,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  cook 
till  it  thickens.  Add  the  gelatine,  strain, 
and  when  cool  add  the  whites.  Grated  pine- 
apple will  not  require  sifting. — Permission  of 
Mrs.  M.  J.  Lincoln. 

2. — Cream  Pudding. 
Set  i  pint  of  milk  to  boil,  wet  2  tablespoon - 
fuls  of  cornstarch  with  cold  water,  stir  care- 
fully into  the  boiling  milk,  add  a  very  little 
speck  of  salt  and  5  drops  of  vanilla  ;  turn  into 
4  fancy  patty  pans  and  set  to  cool  until  firm 
and  hard.  If  made  in  the  morning  they 
will  be  cool  for  dinner.  For  the  sauce,  1 
cup  of  milk,  yi  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
five  drops  of  vanilla.  When  the  pudding  is 
firm  and  cold,  turn  out  on  a  platter,  put  a 
piece  of  currant  jelly  on  top  of  each  and 
pour  the  sauce  around  them.  Double  this 
recipe  if  for  more  than  two  people. 

3. — Gateau  De  Princess  Louise. 

Bake  sponge  drop  mixture,  or  feather  cake, 

or  snow  cake  in  jelly  tin.     Cut  the  centre 

from  one  cake,  leaving  a  rim  1  y2  inches  wide. 

Put  jelly  on  the  remaining  cake,  lay  the  rim 

17 


February* 

on  the  edge  and  fill  the  centre  with  Bavar- 
ian Cream.  Garnish  with  candied  fruit. 
Frost  the  rim  if  you  prefer. — By  permission 
of  Mrs.  M.  J.  Lincoln. 

4. — Orange  Pie. 
Beat  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  and  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter  together  until 
light.  Moisten  2  even  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch with  a  little  cold  milk  ;  cook  and  stir 
1  minute ;  then  pour  it  quickly  on  the  butter 
and  sugar ;  add  the  grated  yellow  rind  and 
the  juice  of  an  orange ;  mix  and  add  1  egg 
well  beaten  ;  peel  another  large  juicy  orange ; 
cut  it  into  thin  slices  and  then  cut  each  slice 
into  quarters.  Line  a  "Washington  Pie" 
plate  with  light  paste  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
until  done.  Stir  the  orange  slices  quickly  into 
the  custard  mixture,  fill  the  baked  crust  with 
this,  and  place  in  a  quick  oven  a  few  minutes 
to  brown.  While  it  is  browning  beat  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  until  light;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  until 
stiff.  Spread  this  over  the  pie ;  dust  thickly 
with  powdered  sugar  and  stand  again  in  the 
oven  until  a  light  brown. — From  "Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

18 


February. 

5. — Apple  Manioca  Pudding. 

Soak  2  tablespoonfuls  of  manioca  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked  ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  let  it  soak  15  minutes ; 
pare  and  core  4  good  sized  apples,  fill  with 
sugar  and  ground  cinnamon  ;  put  them  in  the 
manioca  and  bake  until  the  apples  are  done. 
Serve  warm,  not  hot. 

6. — Fig  Custard  Pudding. 

One-half  pound  good  figs,  1  pt.  milk,  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  white  of  1  (if  large),  ]/2  oz.  gela- 
tine soaked  in  cold  water,  y^  cup  sweet  fruit 
jelly  slightly  warmed,  2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 
White  sifted  flour.  Soak  the  figs  in  warm 
water  until  quite  soft ;  split  them,  dip  each 
piece  in  jelly  and  line  a  buttered  mould. 
Heat  the  milk  and  stir  into  it  the  well  beaten 
yolks  and  sugar  ;  return  it  to  the  sauce  pan 
and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Melt  the  soaked 
gelatine  by  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling 
water  and  putting  it  into  a  vessel  of  boiling 
water ;  when  it  is  quite  melted,  add  it  to  the 
milk,  and  when  well  mixed  set  it  to  cool. 
As  soon  as  it  begins  to  congeal  whisk  it 
thoroughly  with  an  egg  beater  and  add  to  it 
19 


February, 

gradually  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Beat  it  rapidly  and  thoroughly  till 
quite  spongy  and  fill  the  fig-lined  mould.  Set 
in  a  cool  place  till  quite  firm,  5  or  6  hours  at 
least. 

7.— Baked  Custard. 
One  quart  of  milk,  5  eggs,  6  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  y2  of  a  nutmeg.  Stir  all 
well  together.  Put  in  a  baking  dish  and 
bake  until  you  can  stick  in  the  blade  of  a 
knife  and  it  comes  out  dry ;  about  y2  hour. 

8.— Boiled  Rice  Pudding. 
One-fourth  of  a  lb.  of  rice  flour,  rather  more 
than  a  pint  of  milk,  sugar  to  taste,  1  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  extract  of  cinnamon  and 
lemon.  Mix  the  rice  flour  with  a  little  cold 
milk ;  pour  upon  it  a  pint  of  boiling  milk, 
which  has  been  flavored ;  sweeten  to  taste 
with  loaf  sugar  j  boil  gently  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  all  the  time ;  place  in  a  mould  till 
cold.  Serve  on  a  glass  dish  and  ornament 
with  raspberry  preserve. 

9. — Cranberry  Shape. 
Boil  some  cranberries  with  sugar  in  water 
till  reduced  to  a  pulp.     Take  a  plain  mould, 
20 


February. 

cut  a  slice  of  bread  %  inch  thick  and  butter 
it,  lay  it  in  bottom  of  mould,  cut  strips  of 
bread  like  lady  fingers  and  arrange  closely 
around  sides  of  mould.  Then  mash  the 
stewed  cranberries  through  a  colander  into 
the  mould  till  full,  cover  with  a  slice  of  but- 
tered bread,  butter  side  down;  when  quite 
cold,  it  should  turn  out  solid.  Serve  with 
cream,  whipped  or  plain,  i  quart  of  cran- 
berries is  enough  for  i  pint  mould. 

io. — Brooklyn  Pudding. 
Three  eggs,  3  tablespoon fuls  of  flour,  y2  pt. 
cream  or  milk,  3  teaspoonfuls  ex.  of  orange, 
2  ozs.  white  sugar.  Beat  all  together  and 
pour  into  buttered  cups ;  half  fill  the  cups 
and  set  them  in  a  gentle  oven.  They  should 
bake  in  y2  hour.  , 

11. — Chicago  Pudding. 

Four  eggs,  1  y^  pts.  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  3  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  bread  and  butter, 
marmalade,  1  pt.  boiled  custard,  cut  thin  slices 
bread  and  butter  and  spread  them  with  mar- 
malade. Place  in  a  buttered  pie  dish  until 
half  full ;  gradually  pour  over  them  a  hot 
custard  made  of  milk  heated  almost  to  boil- 
21 


February. 

ing;  then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
beaten  eggs  and  sugar  stirred  in  with  the  fla- 
voring. Place  a  small  plate  on  top  to  pre- 
vent the  bread  from  rising  and  let  it  soak  }& 
hour.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  top  and 
bake,  and  when  done  turn  it  out  of  the  dish 
and  pour  over  a  pint  of  boiled  custard.  It 
is  good  hot  or  cold. 

12. — Rice  Souffle  with  Apples. 
Mash  l/2  cup  of  rice,  throw  it  into  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water,  boil  rapidly  for  10  minutes; 
drain,  put  it  in  a  double  boiler,  add  i  pint 
of  milk  and  cook  it  for  l/2  hour.  While  this 
is  cooking,  pare  and  remove  the  cores  from  6 
tart  apples,  put  them  in  a  basin,  add  a  cup 
of  water  and  stand  them  in  the  oven  to  cook 
for  30  minutes  or  until  tender.  When  done, 
lift  them  carefully  and  put  them  in  the  serv- 
ing dish.  Take  the  rice  from  the  fire,  add 
y2  cup  of  sugar  and  stir  in  well-beaten  whites 
of  4  eggs.  Add  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon 
and  put  this  in  and  around  the  apples.  Serve 
icy  cold  with  a  soft  custard  made  from  a  pint 
of  milk,  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar.— From  "Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

22 


February. 

13. — Maize  Pudding. 
To  2  cupfuls  of  cold  hominy  add  3  cupfuls 
of  chopped  apples,  2  teaspoonfuls  ex.  of 
lemon,  ^  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  2/3  cup  of 
Zante  currants.  Mix  very  thoroughly  to 
avoid  any  lumps  of  cold  hominy.  Bake  1 
hour  or  more  in  a  moderate  oven,  or  until  a 
light  brown.     Serve  cold. 

14. — Baked  Indian  Pudding. 
One  quart  of  milk  heated,  1  cup  molasses, 
7  tablespoonfuls  Indian  meal,  y2  cup  sugar, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  2  eggs.  Beat 
well  together  with  some  raisins  and  a  little 
cinnamon,  then  pour  the  heated  milk  into  it, 
set  into  the  oven  until  it  bubbles,  stirring  oc- 
casionally. Take  it  out  and  beat  every  lump 
out,  adding  1  pt.  of  cold  milk,  put  in  a  pud- 
ding dish  and  bake  1  hour  in  a  rather  slow 
oven. 

15. — Variety  Jelly. 
Dissolve  }£  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  1  pt.  of 
boiling  water,  add  the  juice  of  1  large  lemon 
and  1  cup  of  sugar.  When  cold,  strain  into 
a  glass  dish.  Prepare  1  orange  and  bananas. 
Remove  the  skin  from  the  orange  and  tear 
23 


February. 

into  sections ;  take  out  the  seeds  and  white 
fibres  and  place  at  intervals  in  the  jelly.  The 
bananas  may  be  cut  in  thick  slices  and  filled 
in  between  the  orange.  When  cold  and  stiff 
serve  with  whipped  cream  on  top. 

16. — Mock  Mince  Pie. 
Seed  and  chop  i  cup  of  raisins.  Roll  2 
round  water-crackers  until  rather  fine.  Chip 
2  ozs.  of  citron,  and  wash  and  dry  y2  cup  of 
currants.  Mix  all  these  ingredients  together 
and  add  %  teaspoonful  of  salt,  juice  and  rind 
of  1  lemon,  ]/2  cup  of  sugar,  x/2  cup  of  cider, 
Yz  cup  of  molasses,  1  egg  well  beaten,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  %  teaspoonful  of 
cloves  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg.  Mix  all 
well  together  and  bake  the  same  as  mince  pie. 

17. — Chocolate  Souffle. 
Grate  1  oz.  of  chocolate  and  mix  it  with 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  2  ozs.  of  powdered 
sugar.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Gently  stir  the  whites  into  the  above  mixture, 
put  it  by  the  tablespoonful  on  a  souffle  pan 
and  bake  a  golden  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Dust  it  with  powdered  sugar  when  it  is  done 
or  it  will  fall. 

24 


February. 

18.— Lemon  Trifle. 

One  large  sponge  cake  (sliced),  i  qt.  milk, 
3  eggs  (whites  and  yolks  separate),  5  large 
tablespoonfuls  ex.  of  lemon,  ^  of  the  rind 
of  a  lemon  finely  grated.  Arrange  the  cake 
in  a  deep  glass  dish,  pour  upon  it  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  hot  milk  to  soak  it.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  and  stir  with  them  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar ;  heat  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  pour 
it  upon  the  eggs  by  degrees,  stirring  it  all  the 
while ;  return  it  to  the  sauce  pan  and  stir  till 
it  thickens ;  let  it  cool  a  little,  add  the  flavor- 
ing and  pour  over  the  sponge  cake.  When 
quite  cold  and  just  before  serving  heap  upon 
it  a  meringue  made  from  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  flavored  with  ex. 
of  lemon  and  rind.  The  latter  should  be 
made  just  before  it  is  served. 

19. — Uncle  Joe's  Pudding. 

The  remains  of  cold  plum  pudding  or 
plum  cake,  brandy,  custard  made  with  5 
eggs  to  each  pint  of  milk.  Cut  the  pud- 
ding or  cake  into  finger  pieces ;  soak  them 
in  the  brandy  and  lay  them  cross-barred 
in  a  mould  until  full.  Make  a  custard  with 
above  proportions  of  milk  and  egg  ;  fill  up 
25 


February. 

the  mould  ;   tie  it  down  with  a  cloth ;  boil  or 
steam  i  hour,  serve  with  sauce. 

20. — Chocolate  Pudding. 

One  quart  sweet  milk,  3  ozs.  grated  choco- 
late, 1  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  5  eggs.  Scald 
milk  and  chocolate  together ;  when  cool,  add 
sugar  and  eggs.  After  it  is  baked,  beat 
whites  of  eggs  and  5  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and 
spread  on  the  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

21.— Omelet  Souffle. 

Separate  6  eggs,  beat  the  whites  to  a  very 
stiff  froth.  Beat  3  yolks,  add  them  to  the 
whites,  then  dust  over  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar,  add  the  grated  yellow  rind 
and  the  juice  of  Y/2  lemon.  Now  with  a  wire 
egg-beater  mix  the  whole  as  quickly  and  care- 
fully as  possible.  One  mixing  should  do  the 
work,  add  all  the  ingredients  to  the  whites 
and  do  not  mix  until  the  last  is  added  so  that 
the  one  mixing  will  answer,  otherwise  the 
souffle  will  be  tough.  Just  as  soon  as  it  is 
mixed,  heap  it  into  a  baking  dish,  dust  it 
thickly  with  powdered  sugar  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  10  or  15  minutes.     As  soon  as  it 


February. 

is  nicely  browned  it  is  sufficiently  cooked. 
Serve  at  once. — From  "Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

22. — Lemon  Sponge. 
Cover  y2  box  of  gelatine  with  y%  cup  cold 
water  and  let  stand  for  i  hour ;  dissolve  over 
hot  water.  Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  light 
with  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar ;  add  the 
juice  of  2  good  lemons,  and  when  well 
mixed  add  \y2  cups  of  water.  Put  the  mix- 
ture over  the  fire,  stir  and  cook  until  it  begins 
to  thicken.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  gela- 
tine and  strain  the  mixture  into  a  bowl.  Set 
the  bowl  into  a  pan  of  cracked  ice.  When 
it  begins  to  thicken  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  beat  until  the  mix- 
ture is  smooth  and  frothy.  Turn  into  a  wet 
mould  and  stand  away  to  harden. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

23. — Little  Princess  Pudding. 
Six  large  apples  pared  and  chopped,  6 
large  spoonfuls  grated  bread  crumbs,  6  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  6  of  currants,  6  eggs,  a  wine- 
glass of  wine  or  dissolved  jelly,  teaspoonful 
ex.  of  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  %  tb. 
27 


February. 

butter,  3  tablespoonfuls  flour.     Put  in  a  pud- 
ding mould  or  tin  basket  and  boil  3  hours. 

4. — Apples  and  Rice. 
Select  6  ordinary  sized  apples;  pare  and 
core  them  ;  put  them  in  a  baking  dish  and 
sprinkle  over  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of 
2  lemons,  or  better  still,  )2  tumbler  of  quince 
jelly ;  add  a  gill  of  water  and  bake  the 
apples  for  30  minutes,  or  until  they  are  ten- 
der. When  done,  dish  them  on  a  round 
di^h  and  have  ready  1  cup  of  rice  well  boiled 
and  dry ;  fill  this  into  the  cores  ;  heap  the 
remaining  quantity  of  rice  around  the  apples, 
pour  over  a  soft  custard  and  serve.  This 
may  be  dished  in  many  different  ways.  For 
instance,  the  rice  may  form  a  base  for  the 
apples  in  a  pyramid,  the  custard  then  poured 
in  the  dish  around  the  base  of  the  dessert. 

25. — Prune  Pudding. 
Soak  1  lb.  of  prunes  over  night.  In  the 
morning  remove  the  stones,  put  the  prunes 
in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  with  sufficient  water 
to  prevent  burning,  cover  the  kettle  and  cook 
slowly  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  until  the 
prunes  are  perfectly  tender;    this  will   take 


February. 

about  an  hour ;  then  add  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
stand  aside  to  cool,  when  cold  press  through 
a  colander  until  a  smooth  pulp.  Beat  the 
whites  of  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  them  to 
the  prunes.  Have  ^  of  a  box  of  gelatine 
soaked  for  y2  hour  in  l/2  cup  of  cold  water ; 
stand  this  over  the  fire  until  the  gelatine  is 
dissolved,  stir  into  the  prunes  with  the  whites 
of  eggs  ;  turn  into  a  mould  and  stand  away  to 
harden  ;  turn  into  a  dish  and  serve  with  soft 
custard.— From  "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

26. — Mock  Cantaloupe. 

Mold  the  yellow  Bavarian  cream  in  a 
melon  mould  lined  with  lady  fingers  and 
when  ready  to  serve,  turn  out  on  a  dish  and 
sprinkle  top  of  the  cream  thickly  with  chopped 
pistachio  nuts,  or  any  green  fruit,  plums  or 
angelica.  Garnish  with  whipped  cream  and 
candied  fruit. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Lincoln. 

27. — Dried  Apple  Pies. 

Soak  the  apples;  put  them  in  a  brown 
earthen  pot ;  cover  them  with  water ;  cover 
the  pot  and  bake  4  or  5  hours ;  sweeten  with 
sugar  or  molasses  the  last  half  hour  and  mash 
well  with  a  spoon  ;  when  the  apples  are  thor- 
29 


February. 

oughly  cooked  flavor  with  lemon  juice  and 
add  a  little  butter.  The  pie  can  be  baked 
between  2  crusts,  or  bands  of  the  paste  can 
be  placed  over  the  top. 

28.— Chantilly  Baskets. 

Dip  the  edges  of  soft,  flexible  macaroons 
in  syrup  prepared  as  for  crystallized  fruit,  and 
form  thence  into  a  basket  on  a  fancy  plate, 
something  as  children  make  a  burr  basket. 
A  rim  and  handle  of  pasteboard  to  aid  in 
keeping  the  shape.  When  dry,  fill  with  fancy 
Bavarian  cream. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Lincoln. 


30 


MARCH. 


i. — Lemon  Pudding. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  cream, 
two  eggs,  a  little  mace.  Peel  and  juice  of 
two  fresh  lemons.     Bake  in  deep  plates. 

2.— Bell  Fritters. 
Boil  one  pint  of  water  with  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg.  When  it  boils  take 
from  the  fire  and  stir  in  gradually  i  pt.  of 
flour  forming  a  paste,  add  a  pinch  of  salt. 
When  quite  cold  beat  in  four  eggs  one  at  a 
time.  Fry  in  boiling  lard  dropping  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  at  a  time.  The  fritters  should  be  all 
crust.     Serve  with  some  liquid  sauce. 

3. — Jerusalem  Pudding. 
Cut  3  figs  and  3  prunes  into  tiny  pieces ; 
add  to  them  a  tablespoonful  of  preserved 
ginger  syrup,  and  cover  with  1  gill  of  orange 
juice,  or  sherry ;  stand  aside  y2  hour.  Cut 
1  oz.  of  preserved  ginger  into  tiny  slices ;  add 
31 


March. 

it  to  the  other  fruit,  cover  a  half  box  of  gel- 
atine with  a  half  cup  of  cold  water,  and  soak 
half  an  hour.  Whip  one  pt.  of  cream  to  a 
good  froth,  put  it  in  a  basin,  stand  this  in  a 
pan  of  ice  water;  add  y2  cup  powdered 
sugar,  i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  sugar,  the 
fruit  and  ]4,  tup  boiled  rice.  Now  add  to 
the  gelatine  i  gill  of  cream  and  stir  it  over 
hot  water  until  dissolved.  Strain  it  into  the 
cream  and  gently  stir  from  bottom  and  sides 
of  basin  until  the  whole  is  well  mixed  and 
beginning  to  stiffen.  Turn  in  a  mould  and 
put  in  a  cold  place  to  slightly  harden.  Serve 
plain  or  with  whipped  cream  around  it. — 
From  ''Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

4. — Orange  Pudding. 

Slice  6  oranges  and  put  in  a  deep  dish, 
sprinkle  1  cup  sugar  over  them.  Make  a 
custard  of  a  pint  of  milk  and  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  tablespoonful  cornstarch;  boil,  flavor 
with  vanilla,  cool  and  pour  over  the  oranges ; 
beat  whites  with  three  tablespoonfuls  granu- 
lated sugar,  and  put  on  top  of  custard  and 
oranges,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  To  be 
eaten  cold. 

32 


March. 

5. — Moravian  Apple  Pie. 

Pare  and  core  6  even-sized  apples  carefully, 
so  as  not  to  break  them  ;  place  on  the  stove 
in  a  covered  sauce  pan,  with  1  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  a  very  little  of  the  yellow  of  the 
peal,  1  cup  sugar  and  enough  water  to  cover 
the  apples.  Stew  until  tender  and  remove 
carefully  that  they  may  keep  their  shape ;  line 
a  pie  dish  with  a  thin  crust  of  paste,  fill  the 
bottom  with  peach  or  apple  marmalade,  put 
in  the  apples  and  fill  the  cavities  with  marma- 
lade ;  put  strips  of  crust  across  the  top  of  the 
pie,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  with 
cream. — From  "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

6. — Graham  Pudding. 
One  and  one-half  cups  graham  flour,  y^ 
cup  of  molasses,  y^  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon- 
ful cream  tartar,  y^  teaspoonful  soda,  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  salt,  nutmeg,  fruit.  Steam  3 
hours,  serve  hot.  Sauce. — Whites  of  two 
eggs,  1  cup  sugar  beaten  stiff;  on  this  pour 
1  cup  of  boiling  milk.  Just  before  serving 
add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  serve  cold. 

7. — Snow  Balls,  No.  2. 
Have    pieces    cheese    cloth,  about    6    in. 
33 


March. 

square.  Dust  these  thickly  with  flour.  Have 
i  for  each  ball  required.  Put  i  cup  of  rice 
into  i  qt.  milk,  cook  it  slowly  in  a  double 
boiler,  until  the  rice  has  absorbed  the  milk 
and  all  the  grains  are  swollen.  Then  take  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  rice,  put  it  in  the  centre 
of  the  cloth,  tie  tightly,  so  that  the  rice  will 
be  just  the  form  of  a  ball.  Stand  this  in  the 
steamer,  and  steam  for  15  minutes.  Untie 
the  cloths,  and  the  rice  should  be  in  perfect 
balls,  and  as  white  as  snow. — "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

8. — Burnt  Cream. 

From  1  qt.  of  milk  take  enough  to  blend 
thoroughly  ^  of  a  cup  of  flour,  let  the  re- 
mainder of  the  milk  come  to  a  boil,  and  then 
pour  it  on  the  flour,  stirring  it  well,  when 
smooth  turn  it  back  into  the  sauce  pan  and 
let  it  boil  until  it  thickens.  Meantime  in  an- 
other pot,  an  iron  one  is  best,  let  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar  melt  and  brown,  letting  it  burn 
according  to  taste  ;  into  this  pour  the  boiling 
milk  and  flour,  and  let  all  boil  well  up  to- 
gether, then  pour  into  a  mould.  When  cold 
serve  with  cream,  or  pour  whipped  cream 
around  it. 

34 


March. 

9.— Fruit  Puddings—  To  Roll. 

Roll  out  ^  inch  thick  a  paste  made  of  suet 
chopped  fine,  flour,  water  and  a  little  salt. 
Spread  over  it  preserves  of  any  small  kind. 
Dust  a  little  flour  over  it,  roll  up,  wet  and 
pinch  the  ends  tight,  and  tie  in  a  cloth  which 
has  been  wet  with  cold  water  and  floured. 
Steam  one  or  two  hours  according  to  size. 

10. — Lemon  Frappe. 

Add  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  qt.  of  water;  boil 
three  minutes  and  skim.  When  cool,  add 
the  juice  of  4  large  lemons  and  the  grated 
yellow  rind  of  2 ;  turn  into  a  freezer ;  pack 
with  salt  and  ice,  allowing  1  qt.  of  salt  to  10 
lbs.  of  ice,  turn  the  crank  slowly  and  con- 
tinuously until  the  mixture  is  half  frozen  and 
looks  like  wet  snow. — From  "Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

11. — Potato  Rolls  for  Dessert. 

Put  2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  in  the  Key- 
stone beater ;   add  ^  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2 
eggs,    tablespoonful   of    butter,   y2    nutmeg 
grated,  yz  teaspoonful  cinnamon.     Beat  till 
35 


March. 

the  whole  is  thoroughly  mixed  and  very  light. 
Form  in  cylinder  shaped  rolls ;  dip  in  egg 
and  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smok- 
ing hot  fat.  Serve  hot  with  vanilla  sauce. 
Vanilla  Sauce. — Put  y2  pt.  milk  in  a 
double  boiler  to  boil.  Beat  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs  with  2  tablespoon fu Is  powdered  sugar 
until  very  light ;  then  add  them  to  the  scald- 
ing milk  ;  stir  over  the  fire  one  minute,  turn 
out  to  cool ;  add  a  teaspoonful  vanilla,  mix 
and  stand  away  until  very  cold. — From 
"  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

12. — Cranberry  Pudding. 
Sift  well  together  1  qt.  flour,  1  teaspoonful 
soda,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
Mix  into  a  soft  dough  with  sweet  milk,  roll 
in  an  oblong  form,  and  spread  over  it  1  qt. 
of  cranberries  sprinkled  well  with  sugar. 
Dust  with  a  little  flour,  and  roll  over  and 
over,  then  tie  in  a  pudding-cloth  and  steam 
for  an  hour.  Any  tart  fruit  is  nice  made  in 
the  same  way. 

13. — Rennet  Puffs. 
Heat  2  qts.  milk  until  just  luke-warm,  then 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  rennet ;  stand 
36 


March. 

aside  for  30  minutes  until  set.  Then  cut  into 
blocks ;  drain  the  curd  from  the  whey,  and 
add  to  the  curd  ^  lb.  of  butter,  1  cup  stale 
bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoonfuls  cream,  ]/2  nut- 
meg grated,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla.  With  a  No.  1  Keystone 
Beater,  beat  this  mixture  until  very  light. 
Butter  small  cups  or  patty  pans ;  fill  yi  full  of 
the  mixture  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick 
oven  15  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  a  liquid 
pudding  sauce.— From  "  Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

14.— Sago  Pudding. 
One  teacup  of  sago.     Soak  2  hours  in  a 
qt.  of  water,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  4  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar  and  8  large  apples  quar- 
tered.    Bake  two  hours. 

15. — Date  Pudding. 

Beat  1  egg  without  separating  until  light, 
add  to  it  a  little  more  than  a  gill  of  milk,  add 
1  once  of  butter  melted  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  water,  add  sufficient  flour,  about  one 
cup,  to  make  a  thick  batter.  The  flour  should 
have  sifted  with  it  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Stone  %  m-  °f  dates  and  chop 
37 


March. 

them  into  small  pieces,  dust  them  thickly  with 
flour,  stir  them  into  the  pudding,  turn  into  a 
greased  pan  and  steam  \)/^  hours. 

Orange  Sauce. — Moisten  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour  with  a  little  cold  water,  then  add  1  y2 
gills  of  boiling  water,  add  y2  cup  sugar,  cook 
over  the  fire  about  1  minute,  strain,  return 
to  the  sauce  pan,  and  stand  over  the  boiling 
water  where  it  will  keep  scalding  hot,  add 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  orange  and 
when  ready  to  serve,  stir  in  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs. — From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

16. — Cabinet  Pudding. 
Three  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  3  cups 
milk,  1  saltspoonful  salt,  1  cup  fruit,  raisins, 
currants  and  citron  mixed,  1  qt.  broken  cake 
or  bread  and  cracker  crumbs,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  butter.  Put  together  in  the  following 
form  :  beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  salt  and 
milk  ;  next  measure  the  butter  and  use  it  all 
to  butter  the  mould  ;  then  add  a  layer  of  the 
broken  cake,  and  then  frost  and  repeat  until 
all  the  cake  is  used,  then  pour  the  custard 
over  it  and  soak  2  hours.  Steam  1^  hours. 
Sauce. — x/2  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  table- 
38 


March* 

spoonfuls  wine  and  2  of  cream.  Stir  the  but- 
ter until  creamy,  and  add  the  sugar  a  little  at 
a  time.  Set  the  bowl  in  hot  water  until  the 
butter  melts,  but  not  the  sugar,  and  serve. 

17. — English  Ice  Pudding. 
Boil  14  cup  rice  in  a  pint  of  water  for  y, 
hour,  then  drain  it  and  put  in  a  farina  boiler 
with  1  pt.  milk.  Cook  another  half  hour 
and  pour  through  a  fine  sieve.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  6  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar  together 
until  light,  add  them  to  the  rice  and  milk, 
cook  for  a  moment,  take  from  the  fire  and 
add  1  tablespoonful  vanilla  ex.  or  vanilla 
sugar.  Turn  this  into  a  freezer  and  freeze. 
When  frozen  stir  in  lightly  1  pt.  whipped 
cream,  cover,  pack,  and  stand  aside  for  2 
hours.  Cut  y2  pt.  candied  cherries  into  tiny 
pieces,  also  an  ounce  of  preserved  ginger  and 
about  1 2  blanched  almonds,  cover  them  with 
maraschino,  and  stand  aside  for  15  or  20  min- 
utes. Dip  a  five  pint  melon  mould  into  cold 
water  and  line  it  with  sponge  or  lady  fingers 
dipped  in  sherry.  Sprinkle  the  fruit  over 
this,  then  turn  in  the  pudding,  pack  in  salt 
and  ice  at  least  2  hours.— "  Table  Talk," 
Phila. 

39 


March. 

18. — Cream  Pie. 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  i  pt. 
cream,  if  the  cream  is  thin  use  an  extra  tea- 
spoonful  flour  and  2  eggs,  sugar,  nutmeg  and 
salt  to  taste. 

19. — Curtis  Pudding. 
Mix  with  ]/2  lb.  grated  bread  the  same 
weight  of  chopped  apples,  the  same  of  well 
washed  currants,  6  ounces  finely  chopped 
suet,  %  lb.  of  fine  moist  sugar,  and  3  ounces 
of  candied  peel ;  mix  all  well  together,  with 
4  well-beaten  eggs.  Put  it  into  a  well  but- 
tered mould  and  boil  for  5  hours. — "  Table 
Talk,"  Phila. 

20. — Watermelon  Cake. 

Beat  1  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  grad- 
ually zy2  cups  of  sugar  ;  add  one  cup  of  luke 
warm  water  and  then  add  2  cups  flour,  then 
a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  also 
another  cup  of  flour,  making  4  in  all.  Now 
add  the  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  8  eggs.  After  these 
last  ingredients  have  been  well  mixed,  thor- 
oughly heat,  but  do  not  heat  too  hard.  Sep- 
arate this  mixture  into  three  parts,  having  1 
40 


March. 

full  half  and  the  remaining  y2  divided  into  2 
parts.  To  one  part  add  chlorophyl ;  the 
other  allow  perfectly  white,  and  to  the  large 
quantity  add  sufficiently  cochineal  to  make  it 
pink.  Grease  a  melon  mould,  put  in  a  layer 
of  the  green,  then  a  layer  of  white  and  all  the 
pink  on  top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
y^  of  an  hour.  When  done  and  cold,  ice 
with  green  icing. — From  "Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

21. — A  Fruit  Pudding. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  suet 
or  large  piece  of  butter,  1  cup  chopped  apple, 
1  cup  molasses,  1  ^  cups  of  chopped  raisins, 
1  teaspoonful  soda  ;  boil  3  hours  and  serve 
with  wine  sauce. 

22. — Cream  Curls  or  Lady  Locks. 

These  are  made  of  thin  strips  of  puff  paste 
rolled  on  lady  lock  sticks  and  baked.  Fill 
with  whipped  cream  or  with  a  custard  like 
that  made  for  cream  cakes  and  eclaires. 
When  made  at  the  confectioners  they  are 
glazed  as  follows :  when  nearly  baked  remove 
from  the  oven,  brush  over  with  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg,  then  return  to  the  oven  for  a 
41 


March. 

few  minutes  to  set  the  glaze,  watching  care- 
fully that  they  do  not  burn. — "  Table  Talk," 
Phila. 

23. — Banana  Custard. 
Peel  6  large  bananas.  Beat  them  until  re- 
duced to  a  pulp,  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well 
beaten,  y2  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  and  1  cup  cider.  Beat  all 
well  together.  Pour  this  into  two  pie  tins, 
that  have  been  lined  with  good  paste  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  30  minutes.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  powdered  sugar,  mix ;  heap  on  the  pies, 
return  to  the  oven  a  moment  to  brown. — 
"Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

24. — Boston  Plum  Pudding. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  raisins,  1  loaf 
baker's  bread,  1  nutmeg,  1  tablespoonful 
each  of  ginger,  ground  cinnamon  and  ground 
cloves.  Cut  the  bread  into  very  thin  slices 
and  butter  them  very  thick.  Butter  the  bot- 
toms and  sides  of  a  porcelain  dish,  put  into  it 
a  layer  of  bread ;  sprinkle  some  of  the  spice 
over  it  (after  they  have  been  mixed  together,) 
then  a  layer  of  raisins,  and  so  on  until  the 
42 


March* 

dish  is  full.  Take  i  qt.  milk  and  make  it 
very  sweet,  add  to  this  2  eggs  well  beaten ; 
pour  this  over  the  bread  the  evening  before 
you  use  the  pudding.  Next  morning  add  to 
it  one  pint  of  milk  well  sweetened  and  1  egg. 
Cover  the  dish,  and  bake  2l/z  hours.  To  be 
eaten  with  wine  sauce. 

25. — Chocolate  Pudding. 

Put  2  cups  of  stale  bread  coarsely  crumbed 
into  a  well  greased  melon  mould.  The 
mould  may  be  first  decorated  with  candied 
fruit.  Put  1  pt.  milk  over  the  fire  in  a 
double  boiler.  Beat  3  eggs  with  a  cup  of 
sugar  until  light.  Add  this  to  the  hot  milk, 
stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  then  re- 
move, add  2  ozs.  of  grated  chocolate.  Pour 
this  while  hot  over  the  crumbs,  and  when 
cold  stir  in  1  pt.  cream  whipped  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla  sugar.  Put  the  lid  on  the 
mould,  pack  it  in  salt  and  ice  for  at  least  2 
hours.  Half  the  quantity  will  be  sufficient 
for  eight  persons.—"  Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

26. — Tapioca  Rouge. 

Soak  4  tablespoonfuls  tapioca  and  boil  un- 
til thick  and  clear.     Stir  into  this  while  boil- 
4:; 


March. 

ing  a  cup  of  red  currant  jelly,  when  thor- 
oughly blended  put  into  a  mould,  to  be  eaten 
cold  with  cream. 

27. — Currant  Pudding. 

One  cup  finely  chopped  suet,  1  cup  dried 
currants,  y$  cup  molasses,  2/3  Cup  milk  or 
water,  1  teaspoonful  allspice,  cloves  and 
cinnamon  mixed,  3  cups  flour;  mix  well  and 
steam  3  hours. 

28. — Rice  Pudding. 

Put  2  tablespoon fuls  of  rice  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  into  1  qt.  new  milk,  stir 
until  the  sugar  dissolves,  add  a  grating  of 
nutmeg,  and  if  you  like  j4  cup  raisins. 
Place  the  pan  in  the  oven  and  cook  very 
slowly  about  ij4  hours;  stirring  the  pudding 
every  2  minutes  until  the  last  half  hour.  If 
the  oven  is  too  hot  the  pudding  will  be  too 
thick.— From  «  Table  Talk,"  Phila. 


29. — Baked  Bananas. 

Strip  a  narrow  piece  of  skin  from  the  flat 
side  of  the  banana.  Place  them  in  a  baking 
pan,  this  side  up,  sprinkle  thickly  with  gran- 


44 


March. 

ulated  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  soft  and  tender.  It  requires  about  30 
minutes. — "Table  Talk." 

30. — Apple  Pudding. 
One-half  pound  strained  apples,  6  ounces 
sugar,  3  ounces  butter,   6  eggs,  a  few  spoon- 
fuls cream,  1  glass  wine,  spice  to  taste. 

31.— Souffle  Pudding. 
One  quart  milk,  6  tablespoonfuls  flour,  wet 
the  flour  with  some  of  the  cold  milk,  and  rub 
until  it  forms  a  smooth  paste.  Boil  the  rest 
of  the  milk,  and  pour  it  on  the  flour,  stirring 
well.  Then  put  it  away  to  cool  for  several 
hours.  When  quite  cold  add  the  yolks  of  6 
eggs,  then  the  whites,  beaten  very  stiff.  Beat 
the  whole  thoroughly  until  it  becomes  very 
light.  Bake  for  y2  hour  and  serve  hot  with 
hard  sauce. 


45 


APRIL. 


i. — Duchess     Cake     with      Raspberry 
Filling. 

Put  y2  pt.  of  water,  2  ozs.  butter  on  to 
boil,  then  add  4  ozs.  flour;  stir  until  you 
have  a  thick  paste,  take  from  the  fire  and 
add  1  at  a  time,  4  eggs,  mixing  and  heating 
each  before  the  other  is  added.  Line  baking 
pans  with  greased  paper  and  take  about  ^ 
tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  and  place  it  in 
an  oval  form,  being  careful  that  they  do  not 
touch  each  other;  brush  them  over  with 
beaten  egg  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
at  least  30  or  35  minutes.  When  they  are 
done  they  will  be  very  light  and  hollow. 
Take  them  from  the  oven,  make  a  hole 
through  the  middle  and  fill  the  inside  with 
raspberry  jam.  Ice  the  tops  with  soft  icing 
and  when  cold  they  are  ready  to  serve. — 
From  "  Table  Talk,"  Phila.. 
4G 


April. 

2. — Dried  Peach  Custard. 

Stew  dried  peaches  until  perfectly  soft' 
stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  beat  wit 
egg  beater  until  smooth  and  light,  sweeten  r 
taste.  To  every  cup  of  this  pulp  add  i  eg^ 
well  beaten  and  j4  cup  of  milk ;  beat  all 
well  together.  Pour  into  pie  tins,  lined  with 
a  good  plain  paste.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
30  minutes. — From  "  Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

3.— Mulled  Rice. 

Take  a  large  cup  of  rice,  wash  and  soak 
well ;  put  it  on  the  fire  with  2  qts.  of  milk, 
let  it  cook  slowly  from  3  to  4  hours  until  it 
becomes  a  perfect  cream.  Make  a  sauce  of 
a  cup  of  white  sugar,  beaten  thoroughly  into 
2  eggs  and  a  glass  of  wine.  Serve  the  rice 
hot ;  pour  the  sauce  over  it  and  grate  a  little 
nutmeg  over  the  top. 

4. — Claret  Punch. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  a  lemon,  cut  up  the 
rind  and  cover  with  1  cup  of  granulated 
sugar.  Let  it  stand  for  j4  hour.  Mix  with 
the  juice  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Add  1  cup  of  claret,  and  let  it  stand  another 
47 


April. 

y2  hour;  strain,  add  another  cup  of  claret, 
y2  cup  of  pineapple  syrup  and  if  desired,  i 
bottle  of  soda.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  serve 
very  cold.— From  "Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

5. — Frosted  Apples. 

Peel  some  pippins,  stew  in  a  thin  syrup  till 
they  become  tender,  but  be  careful  they  do 
not  break.  Dip  in  the  white  of  an  egg  that 
has  been  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth  and  sift 
powdered  sugar  over  them  thickly.  Place  in 
a  cool  oven  to  candy  and  serve  in  a  glass 
dish. — From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

6.— Washington     Pie    with    Molasses 
Filling. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  until  light,  add  to 
them  y2  a  cup  of  light  brown  sugar  and  beat 
until    creamy.       Dissolve    a    teaspoonful    of 
soda  in  a  little  hot  water ;  add  it  to  %  cup 
of  sour  cream  and  stir  this  into  y2  a  cup  of 
New  Orleans  Molasses.     Mix  well  with  the 
eggs  and  sugar ;  add  y2  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon,   a    grating    of  lemon   peel  and  \x/2 
cups  of  flour.    Beat  well,  stir  in  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth  and  turn 
at  once  into  an  oblong  tin  lined  with  paste. 
48 


April. 

Bake  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
cool  ice  with  the  following  :  Break  the  white 
of  1  egg  into  a  bowl ;  add  *4  the  white  in 
water  and  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  ;  stir 
in  confectioner's  sugar  until  it  pours  thickly 
from  a  spoon.  Beat  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Ice  the  pie  and  stand  away  to  harden. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

7. — Cocoanut  Bread  Pudding. 

Cover  1  cup  of  cocoanut  with  1  quart  of 
milk  and  soak  2  hours  ;  add  2  cups  of  bread 
crumbs  and  3  eggs  beaten  light  without 
separating.  Mix  well,  turn  into  a  greased 
pudding  dish  and  bake  ^  of  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Serve  cold  with  hard  or 
any  sauce. — From  "Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

8.— Spanish  Puffs. 

One  cup  of  boiled  milk,  1  cup  of  flour,  4 
eggs,  boil  the  milk  well,  add  the  flour  and 
stir  until  very  smooth  ;  add  the  eggs,  1  at 
a  time,  do  not  beat  but  stir  them  in  well. 
Drop  in  boiling  lard  and  fry.  Serve  with 
maple  syrup. 

49 


April. 

g. — A  Sponge  Pudding. 

Butter  a  mould ;  strew  it  thickly  over  with 
dried  currants;  fill  the  mould  ^  full  with 
small  sponge  cakes  soaked  in  wine;  fill  it  up 
with  a  rich  custard,  which  must  be  cold. 
Cover  the  mould  carefully  and  boil  an  hour. 
Turn  out  and  serve  with  custard  poured 
over  it. 

10. — Plain  Batter  Pudding. 

One  quart  milk,  4  eggs,  6  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  a  little  salt ;  bake  20  minutes. 

11. — Charlotte  Russe. 

Cover  %  box  of  gelatine  with  ^  cup  of 
cold  water  and  let  it  stand  for  y2  hour  ;  dis- 
solve over  hot  water.  Scald  1  cup  of  milk, 
add  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  stir  until 
it  is  dissolved  and  the  milk  looks  blue.  Beat 
1  egg  very  light,  add  to  the  milk  stirring  all 
the  while.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  to  the 
dissolved  gelatine  and  stir  again.  Flavor 
with  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  put  away 
to  cool.  Whip  1  pt.  of  cream,  add  it  to  the 
cooled  custard,  turn  it  into  a  mould  previously 
wet  with  cold  water  and  stand  away  to 
50 


April. 

harden.  When  ready  to  use,  turn  out  and 
cover  with  stale  macaroons. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

12. — Boiled  Fruit  Pudding. 

One  quart  crushed  wheat,  i  teaspoon ful 
cinnamon,  y  teaspoonful  cloves,  2  cupfuls 
sugar,  2  eggs,  ]/2  lb.  suet  chopped  fine,  1  tea- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  y^  teaspoonful  soda, 
y  cupful  molasses,  ^  lb.  raisins  chopped 
fine,  citron  and  2  teaspoonfuls  extract  of 
lemon.     Boil  2  hours. 

13. — Half  Hour  Pudding. 

Boil  iy  pts.  of  milk,  pour  it  over  as  many 
stale  pieces  of  bread  as  it  will  soften ;  let  it 
stand  10  minutes,  and  add  1  unbeaten  egg, 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  butter,  salt 
and  nutmeg,  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
y  teaspoonful  of  soda;  beat  all  well  to- 
gether and  add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  then  stir 
in  y2  cup  of  currants  dusted  with  a  little 
flour.  Pour  into  a  buttered  bowl  and  steam 
y2  hour.  Serve  with  a  sauce.  It  is  very 
nice  without  the  currants. 
51 


April. 

14. — Banana  Fritters. 

Cut  8  bananas  in  pieces.  Make  a  French 
fritter  batter  as  follows :  Put  1  cup  of  flour 
into  a  bowl ;  beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  to 
them  2/i  of  a  cup  of  cold  water,  then  add 
this  gradually  to  the  flour,  stirring  all  the 
while.  It  should  form  a  smooth  but  rather 
liquid  paste,  but  at  the  same  time  have 
enough  consistency  to  adhere  to  the  bananas  ; 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  a  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  carefully  ; 
cover  the  bananas  with  this  paste  and  drop 
them  into  smoking  hot  lard  and  when  a 
bright  golden  color,  drain,  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  serve. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

15. — Orange  Bavarian  Cream. 

Cover  y  of  box  of  gelatine  with  y2  cup 
cold  water ;  soak  it  for  y2  hour  j  stir  1  lb. 
sugar  into  1  qt.  of  orange  juice  until  the 
sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  strain  this 
into  a  basin.  Stand  the  gelatine  over  a  ket- 
tle of  hot  water  until  thoroughly  melted ; 
strain  it  into  the  orange  juice  and  stir  care- 
fully until  the  mixture  begins  to  congeal ; 
52 


April. 

then  add  i  %  Pts-  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff 
froth.  This  must  be  stirred  very  carefully 
from  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  pan  until 
the  mixture  is  one  color;  that  is  until  all 
streaks  of  yellow  disappear.  Turn  into  your 
pudding  mould  and  stand  away  over  night. 
This  may  be  served  perfectly  plain,  or  may 
be  served  with  whipped  cream  heaped  around 
it.— From  "  Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

16. — Maizura  Pudding. 
Four  tablespoonfuls  maizura  stirred  into  2 
eggs,  and  milk  enough  to  make  it  smooth. 
Heat  1  qt.  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  just 
before  it  boils  stir  in  the  above,  constantly 
stirring  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from  the 
fire  and  flavor.  To  be  eaten  cold  with  cream 
or  milk  and  sugar. 

17.— Fruit  Balls. 

Chop  2  ozs.  of  suet  rather  fine,  having  first 
freed  it  from  shreds  \  add  to  this  twice  the 
quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  that  is  after  you 
have  chopped  the  suet ;  take  twice  the  quan- 
tity of  crumbs,  add  the  white  of  1  egg,  y2 
cup  of  chopped  raisins,  %  cup  of  currants 
53 


April. 

and  a  few  pieces  of  citron.  If  it  is  now 
moist,  form  into  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
If  they  are  at  all  dry,  add  the  white  of  an- 
other egg.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  drop  the  balls  in  and  cook  slowly  un- 
til they  come  to  the  surface ;  lift  carefully 
with  a  skimmer,  dish  and  pour  over  them  a 
rich  brandy  sauce  made  with  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs.— From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

18. — Nesselrode  Pudding. 
Shell  3  cups  of  French  or  Italian  chestnuts. 
Carefully  remove  the  brown  skin ;  then  sim- 
mer for  30  minutes,  or  until  soft.  Drain,  press 
through  a  colander,  cut  1  pound  of  French 
candied  fruit  in  small  pieces  and  cover  with 
one  wine-glass  of  sherry.  Boil  2  cups  of 
sugar  and  1  cup  of  water  for  15  minutes. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  very  light ;  then  beat 
them  into  the  boiling  syrup.  Stir  over  the 
fire  until  it  again  reaches  the  boiling  point, 
then  remove  and  beat  while  cooling,  adding 
1  pint  of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth, 
the  fruit,  wine  and  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Turn  into  a  freezer  and  freeze.  When  frozen, 
pack  and  stand  away  to  ripen. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

.54 


April. 

19. — Arrowroot  Pudding. 

Mix  4  spoonfuls  of  arrowroot  with  a  teacup 
full  of  new  milk,  then  boil  nearly  a  quart  of 
milk  and  stir  in  the  arrowroot.  When  nearly- 
cold  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  spoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  sugar  to  taste  and  a  little  nut- 
meg.    Bake  about  20  minutes. 

20. — German  Toast. 

Cut  the  bread  in  rather  thick  slices,  beat  2 
eggs  light  without  separating  and  add  to 
them  1  pint  of  milk,  heating  all  the  while. 
Grease  a  hot  griddle  or  frying  pan  with 
butter ;  dip  the  bread  in  the  milk  and  eggs 
and  fry  on  both  sides  to  a  delicate  brown. — 
From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

21. — Claret  Jelly. 

A  package  of  gelatine  soaked  in  a  pt.  of 
cold  water,  juice  of  3  lemons  and  grated  peel 
of  1,  a  pint  of  claret,  sugar  to  taste.  Pour 
over  these  a  quart  of  boiling  water  ;  stir  un- 
til dissolved,  and  strain  into  moulds,  previ- 
ously wet  with  cold  water. 


April. 

22. — Flourendines. 

Boil  yi  cup  of  rice  in  2  qts.  of  water  until 
tender,  or  for  about  20  minutes  ;  drain  until 
thoroughly  dry.  Beat  4  eggs  without  sep- 
arating, until  light ;  add  ]/2  cup  of  sugar  and 
beat  again  until  light,  then  add  1  pt.  of  milk, 
1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  and  the  boiled  rice. 
Line  2  pie  dishes  with  good  light  paste,  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  dishes  with  seeded  raisins. 
Fill  with  the  rice  mixture  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  about  30  minutes,  or  until  the 
custard  is  solid.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
until  light,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar  and  beat  again  until  very  stiff.  Spread 
a  thin  covering  of  this  mixture  over  the  pie, 
dust  with  powdered  sugar,  put  back  in  the 
oven  and  bake  until  a  golden  brown ;  serve 
when  cold.— From  "Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

23. — Chocolate  Custard. 

Three  ounces  Baker's  chocolate,  3  pts.  of 
milk,  4  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  brown  sugar  ;  prepare  a  soft  custard 
of  the  milk  and  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  and  the 
white  of  1 ;  dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  cup 
of  warm  milk  and  heat  it  to  boiling  point  \ 
56 


April. 

when  cool,  sweeten  with  the  brown  sugar  and 
flavor  with  vanilla ;  pour  the  whole  into  a 
dish  and  cover  with  whites  of  the  5  eggs 
beaten  stiff  with  a  little  sugar ;  brown  slightly 
and  serve  cold. 

24. — Spanish  Cream. 

Put  /3  of  a  box  of  gelatine  to  soak  in  x/$ 
cup  of  cold  water ;  separate  4  eggs,  put  1 
pint  of  milk  in  a  farina  boiler,  beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  with  ]/2  cup  of  sugar  until  light. 
Add  them  to  the  hot  milk,  stir  for  a  minute, 
take  from  the  fire  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Add  ^  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water  to  the 
gelatine,  strained,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  ; 
stir  all  together  and  turn  into  a  mould.  This 
should  settle  into  3  layers  and  is  a  very  pretty 
and  attractive  pudding. — From  ''Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

25. — Lemon  Custard. 

Separate  3  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  and  add 
gradually  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  a 
rounding  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  a  bowl 
and  add  gradually,  mixing  all  the  while  ;  y2 
pint  of  milk,  add  the  grated  yellow  rind  and 
57 


April. 

juice  of  one  lemon  to  the  yolks  and  sugar. 
Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Now  add  the 
milk  and  flour.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Let  it  stand  in  a  cold  place  20 
minutes  and  it  is  ready  to  use. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

26. — Cocoanut  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  half  a  cocoanut  grated, 
4  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  sugar  to  taste.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  about  30  minutes.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

27. — Pineapple  Pie. 

Beat  yz  cup  of  butter  and  a  cup  of  sugar 
to  a  cream ;  add  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  and 
beat  again,  then  add  1  good-sized  pineapple, 
grated,  1  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Line  a 
deep  pie  dish  with  light  paste,  fill  with  the 
mixture  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  30 
minutes.  If  canned  pineapple  is  used,  ]/2 
the  given  quantity  of  sugar  will  be  suf- 
ficient.—From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

28.— Sultana  Roll. 

Make  the  ice  cream   as  follows :   Scald  1 
pt.   of  milk  j    add   1    cup  of  sugar,    1  level 
58 


April 

tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  with  a 
little  cold  milk,  and  i  egg  beaten  without 
separating.  Cook  20  minutes,  add  1  salt 
spoonful  of  salt,  strain  and  cool,  add  1  qt.  of 
whipped  cream,  flavor  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  vanilla  and  1  tablespoonful  ex.  of  al- 
mond ;  color  with  leaf  green  and  freeze. 
When  frozen,  line  a  mould  with  the  cream  and 
sprinkle  with  sultana  raisins,  which  have 
been  soaked  several  hours  in  brandy.  Fill 
the  centre  of  the  mould  with  1  pt.  of  cream 
whipped  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth,  sweetened  with 
}i  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  flavored 
with  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cover  the 
mould,  pack  in  ice  and  salt,  and  let  stand  for 
2  hours.  Serve  with  claret  sauce.  Claret 
Sauce. — Put  1  cup  of  sugar  with  %  of  a  cup 
of  water  in  a  sauce  pan  over  the  fire ;  stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  until  it 
thickens  slightly.  Cool  and  add  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  claret. — From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

29. — Tapioca  Cream  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  over  night  in 
cold  water,  boil  1  qt.  of  milk  and  stir  in  the 
tapioca,  boil  10  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. 
59 


April. 

Dissolve  i  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  in  y2 
cup  of  milk,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs 
and  stir  into  the  tapioca,  add  a  little  salt, 
sweeten  to  taste  and  boil  up  once.  Flavor 
to  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  flavor,  spread  over 
the  pudding  and  brown  in  oven. 

30. — Bread  Meringue. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  light,  add  gradu- 
ally 1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  beating  all 
the  while,  and  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 
Mix  1  pt.  of  bread  crumbs  with  1  qt.  of 
milk,  pour  this  on  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Mix 
well,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  stiff. 
When  done,  make  a  meringue  of  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar ;  put  on  the  pudding  and  brown  in  a 
quick  oven. — From  "  Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 


MAY. 


I. — Lemon  Pudding. 

Make  a  sponge  cake  of  6  eggs,  j4  tt>.  of 
sugar,  6  ozs.  of  flour.  Divide  the  latter  in  3 
parts  and  bake  in  jelly  cake  pans.  Let  it 
cool,  make  a  custard  of  a  pt.  of  milk,  3  eggs, 
Y^  teaspoon ful  of  cornstarch,  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  ^  of  a  lb.  of  butter 
and  sugar  to  taste ;  split  the  cakes  through 
the  middle  and  divide  the  custard  equally 
among  the  three.  Place  the  top  of  the  cake  on 
the  custard  and  sprinkle  sugar  over.  Serve 
cold. 

2. — Huevos  Chimbos. 

The  yolks  of  10  eggs  beaten  very  light  and 
baked  in  shallow  tins  ;  cut  it  in  squares  and 
pour  over  it  boiling  syrup,  made  from  sugar 
and  water ;  leave  it  to  simmer  on  top  of  the 
stove  till  it  is  well  saturated,  then  put  by  to 
cool  and  when  cool  stick  blanched  almonds 
over  it  to  ornament  it. — "  Table  Talk." 
61 


May* 

3. — Prince  Albert  Pudding. 

One-fourth  lb.  butter,  %  lb.  sugar,  y£  lb. 
raisins  stoned,  2  eggs,  y±  lb.  flour.  Beat  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  raisins 
and  stir  in  the  flour  very  lightly ;  line  your 
buttered  mould  with  strips  of  candied  lemon 
peel  and  steam  \]/2  hours.  Serve  with 
sauce. 

4. — Creme  Au  Caramel. 

Place  upon  the  fire  6  tablespoonfuls  of 
brown  sugar,  keeping  it  there  until  it  becomes 
a  caramel.  When  cold,  pour  over  this  1  qt. 
of  boiled  milk  and  stir  until  quite  smooth. 
Pour  over  4  eggs  well  beaten  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  it  thickens.     Serve  cold. 

5. — Chocolate   Mance. 

One  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  a 
pint  of  cold  water,  3  pints  of  milk ;  put  over 
to  boil  with  one  cup  of  French  chocolate ; 
when  the  milk  is  just  scalded,  pour  in  the 
gelatine,  sweeten  to  taste,  boil  5  minutes, 
then  take  from  the  fire,  flavor  with  vanilla, 
pour  into  moulds,  when  cold,  serve  with 
powdered  sugar  and  cream. 
62 


May. 

6. — Minnie's  Rice  Pudding. 

To  twelve  cups  of  milk,  one  cup  of  rice 
well  washed.  Sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  with 
vanilla  or  nutmeg ;  add  a  little  salt  and  about  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for 
three  or  four  hours,  stirring  frequently  until 
the  last  hour ;   then  let  it  brown  nicely. 

7. — Mysterious  Pudding. 

Two  eggs  and  their  weight  in  flour,  butter 
and  moist  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks 
separately;  mix  these  ingredients  well  to- 
gether ;  the  butter  and  sugar  first,  then  the 
yolks,  the  whites  last ;  then  add  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  or  baking 
powder,  and  a  large  dessertspoonful  of  orange 
marmalade.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  but- 
tered mould  or  basin,  not  more  than  2/z  full,  as 
it  rises  quickly.  Steam  over  boiling  water 
1  ]^  hrs.  Everything  depends  on  the  cook- 
ing.    Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

8.— Wine  Custard. 
Heat  to  100  degrees  1^  pts.  of  milk,  add 
\y2  tablespoonfuls  each  of  sugar  and  cook- 
ing-sherry; stir  well  and  then  add  1^  table- 
spoonfuls  of  liquid  rennet,  stirring  only 
enough  to  mix  it  with  the  milk.  Pour  into 
63 


May. 

a  glass  dish  and  it  will  be  ready  to  serve  in 
about  2  hours. 

9. — Orange  Marmalade  Pudding. 

One  cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  x/2  cup  of 
sugar,  1  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  4  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  butter,  cup  orange  or  other  sweet 
marmalade;  put  the  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether, add  the  yolks  well  beaten ;  the  milk, 
bread  crumbs  and  the  whites  whipped  to  a 
froth.  Put  a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of  a 
well-buttered  mould,  spread  thickly  with  some 
pretty  stiff  marmalade,  orange  is  the  best, 
then  another  layer  of  the  mixture,  and  so  on 
until  the  mould  is  full,  having  the  custard 
mixture  at  the  top.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  1  hour,  turn  out  of  the  mould  upon 
a  dish  and  serve  with  sweetened  cream  or 
custard. — From  "Common  Sense  in  the 
Household,"  by  Marion  Harland,  Copyright 
1880,  1892  by  Charles  Scribner's  Sons. 

10. — Orange  Sponge. 

One  ounce  gelatine  in  1  qt.  water;  strain 
and  stand  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add 
whites  of  3  eggs,  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  1 
large  orange.  Sweeten  to  the  taste,  beat  all 
thoroughly  and  put  in  moulds. 
64 


May. 

ii. — Caramel  Pudding  (New). 

Take  2  fancy  moulds,  each  holding  \x/2  pts., 
brush  them  lightly  with  butter,  then  stand 
them  in  pan  of  ice  water.  Put  1  cup  gran- 
ulated sugar  into  a  granite  sauce  pan  ;  do  not 
add  a  particle  of  water,  but  stir  the  sugar 
over  the  fire  till  it  melts  and  is  a  straw- 
colored  liquid ;  now  pour  this  into  the  moulds, 
turning  them  so  that  you  have  a  thin  coating 
of  caramel  all  over  the  inside  of  the  mould. 
Now  stand  the  moulds  aside  while  you  make 
the  pudding.  Beat  8  eggs  without  separat- 
ing, until  light,  add  ]/2  cup  of  sugar  and  beat 
again ;  add  1  qt.  milk  and  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla ;  mix  this  thoroughly  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved,  turn  it  into  the  moulds,  stand  the 
moulds  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  them  with 
paper  and  cook  in  a  quick  oven  until  jelly- 
like and  firm.  Try  by  running  a  spoon  in  the 
centre ;  if  it  comes  out  milky  they  are  not 
done.  When  done,  take  them  out,  stand 
them  aside  until  icy  cold  ;  when  ready  to 
serve,  have  at  hand  a  pan  of  boiling  water, 
hold  the  mould  an  instant  in  this,  then  turn 
out  in  a  dish.  This  is  enough  for  20  peo- 
ple. 

65 


May. 

12. — Olney  Pudding. 

Two  eggs,  4  ozs.  butter,  4  ozs.  flour,  2 
ozs.  sugar,  ^  teaspoonful  carbonate  soda,  2 
teaspoonfuls  ex.  of  lemon  and  2  large  spoon- 
fuls of  marmalade  or  any  other  jam  or  jelly. 
Stand  2  hours  in  a  buttered  mould  ;  put  the 
batter  into  a  basin  and  stir  to  a  cream,  add 
the  sugar,  mix  them  together  with  the  flour 
and  add  the  eggs  well  beaten ;  dissolve  the 
soda  in  a  teaspoonful  of  cold  water,  mix  well 
in  the  jam  or  jelly  and  add  soda.  Serve  with 
sweet  sauce  or  a  spoonful  of  the  jam  can  be 
mixed  with  the  sauce. 

13. — Fig  Mould. 

Two  pounds  of  figs,  1  large  cup  of  sugar, 
1  y2  pints  of  water,  3^  small  box  of  gelatine, 
1  coffee  cup  of  sherry.  Stew  the  figs  and 
sugar  in  the  water  for  one  hour,  add  the 
gelatine  and  sherry,  pour  into  a  mould. 
Should  be  eaten  cold  with  cream,  plain  or 
whipped. 

14. — Lemon  Cream. 

Beat  \]/o,    pints  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth; 
sweeten  to  taste  with  fine  sugar ;  squeeze  in 
66 


May. 

the  juice  of  4  lemons ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
of  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water  and  dis- 
solved in  a  little  hot  water.  Pour  it  into  a 
greased  mould.  It  is  better  to  make  it  the  day 
before  it  is  required. — From  Good  House- 
keeping. 

15.— Swiss  Tart. 

Make  a  short  paste  as  follows  :  Take  1 
lb.  of  pastry  flour,  rub  in  10  ozs.  of  butter,  2 
ozs.  of  fine  sugar  and  nearly  )/>  pint  of  milk  ; 
mix  this  to  a  moderately  stiff  paste,  then  roll 
out,  give  it  2  turns,  as  we  term  it  in  pastry 
making ;  then  roll  out  about  y2  inch  in 
thickness,  cut  out  pieces  the  size  of  a  cheese 
plate,  place  these  on  a  baking  tin,  egg 
around  the  edge  and  surround  with  a  border 
of  paste;  place  some  raspberry  jam  in  each 
"shell"  and  bake.  Make  a  meringue  mix- 
ture and  spread  some  over  the  tarts,  then  take 
some  of  the  mixture  in  a  bag  and  with  a  tube 
make  the  form  of  a  star  or  any  other  design 
for  the  centre.  Place  a  border  around  the 
edge,  sprinkle  a  little  pink  sugar  over,  bake 
in  a  moderately  cool  oven  a  golden  brown. — 
From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 
67 


May. 

16. — Batter  Pudding  with  Strawberries. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  three  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  three  eggs,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  pint  of  strawberries.  Beat  the  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  together  until  light,  then 
add  the  milk,  then  the  flour,  and  heat  until 
smooth,  then  add  the  butter  melted,  salt  and 
baking  powder.  Dredge  the  berries  with 
flour,  stir  them  into  the  pudding,  and  turn 
into  a  greased  pudding  mould.  Cover,  stand 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil  continu- 
ously for  three  hours.  If  the  water  evapo- 
rates in  the  pot,  replenish  with  boiling  water. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce  flavored  with  sherry.— 
From  «  Table  Talk." 

17. — Brazilian  Pudding. 
Put  2  cups  of  stale  bread  crumbs  into  1  qt. 
of  milk  ;  beat  with  a  No.  1  Keystone  beater, 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  y£  cup  of  sugar  until 
very  light,  then  beat  the  whites  until  stiff  and 
dry.  Now  add  the  yolks  and  sugar  to  the 
bread  and  milk  and  then  stir  in  the  whites. 
Butter  a  pudding  mould,  spread  the  bottom 
with  raisins,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake  in 
68 


May. 

a  moderate  oven    \x/2    hours.      Serve   cold. 
—From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

18. — Cocoanut  Tarts. 

Put  y2  lb.  of  sugar  and  i  gill  of  water  in  a 
sauce  pan,  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  then  boil  hard  just  one  minute ; 
add  i  cup  of  grated  cocoanut  and  boil  2 
minutes  longer.  Stand  away  to  cool,  beat 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  the  white  of  one  to  a 
very  light  cream,  add  this  to  the  cocoanut 
when  cold  and  beat  until  light.  If  properly 
beaten  it  will  look  like  a  sponge  cake  batter. 
Have  ready  pie  tins  lined  with  a  nice  light 
paste ;  fill  with  this  mixture  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  25  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of 
2  eggs  until  light,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar  ;  mix  and  heap  over  the  top 
of  the  tarts,  return  to  the  oven  a  moment  to 
brown. — From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

19. — Vanilla  Parfait. 

Whip  1^  pts.  of  cream  until  light  and 
dry.  After  all  the  cream  is  nicely  whipped 
add  ^  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and 
a  dessertspoonful  of  vanilla,  mix  carefully 
and  pour  into  a  mould  that  has  a  tight-fitting 
69 


May. 

cover.  Put  on  the  lid  and  bind  the  crevice 
with  a  strip  of  muslin  dipped  in  suet ;  pack 
the  moulds  in  salt  and  ice,  cover  and  stand 
away  for  2  hours  to  quietly  freeze.  This  is 
especially  nice  with  frozen  fruits. — "  Table 
Talk." 

20. — Strawberry  Water  Ice. 
One  qt.  of  strawberry  juice,  the  juice  of  2 
lemons,  1   lb.  of  sugar  and  1  pt.  of  water; 
mix  well  and  stand  aside  for  1  hour  and  then 
freeze  it.— "Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

21. — Cerealine  Blocks  With  Jelly. 

Put  1  pint  of  cream  in  a  double  boiler, 
add  sufficient  cerealine,  about  1^  cups,  to 
make  a  thick  batter ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  beat  until  smooth  and  light,  turn 
into  a  square  tin  mould  to  cool ;  when  cold, 
turn  out  and  cut  into  blocks.  Drop  quickly 
into  smoking  hot  fat  and  cook  until  a  golden 
brown.  Drain  on  soft  brown  paper;  dust  with 
powdered  sugar  and  serve  with  the  following : 
Currant  Jelly  Sauce. — Put  y2  tumbler  of 
currant  jelly  into  a  bowl  and  beat  until  it  is 
thoroughly  aerated ;  then  mix  in  carefully 
the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg  ;  stand  in 
a  cold  place  until  wanted. — "Table  Talk." 
70 


May. 

22. — Delmonico  Pudding. 

Three  pints  milk,  3  eggs,  4^  heaping 
spoonfuls  corn  meal,  1  cup  sugar.  Pour  the 
boiling  milk  on  to  the  beaten  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  add  the  meal  and  the  sugar,  beat  all  to- 
gether. Cook  for  5  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  a  pudding- 
dish  and  bake  about  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  cream  and 
sugar. 

23. — Irish  Moss  Blanc  Mange. 

Wash  y2  ounce  Irish  moss  through  several 
cold  waters,  then  soak  it  1  hour  in  1  quart 
milk,  turn  it  into  a  farina  boiler,  and  cook 
slowly,  until  the  moss  is  almost  dissolved. 
Add  y2  cup  sugar  and  the  flavoring.  Strain 
and  turn  into  a  mould,  and  stand  in  a  very 
cold  place  to  stiffen.  If  you  use  wine, 
sherry  would  be  the  better  flavoring. — "  Ta- 
ble Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

24.— Royal  Fritters. 

Put    1    pt.   of   milk  in   a  farina   boiler  to 
heat ;  when  hot,  add  the  juice  of  1   lemon ; 
take  from  the  fire,  let  it  stand  5  or  6  minutes 
71 


May. 

for  the  curd  to  settle.  Beat  3  eggs  until  very 
light,  drain  the  curd  from  the  milk  and  add 
it  to  the  eggs ;  add  ^  of  a  nutmeg,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  sufficient 
flour,  about  y2  cup  to  form  a  smooth  batter. 
Now  beat  until  smooth  and  light.  Have 
ready  a  deep  pan  of  hot  lard ;  drop  the  bat- 
ter by  spoonfuls  into  it  and  fry  quickly  a 
light  brown.  When  done,  place  on  a  sieve 
to  drain.  Serve  hot,  dusted  with  powdered 
sugar. 

25. — Mrs.  B.'s  Puffies. 
One  quart  of  milk  and  water,  2  parts  milk 
and  1  of  water,  2  eggs,  a  little  salt,  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  batter;  heat  the  pans, 
and  pour  the  mixture  in ;  bake  until  a  light 
brown.     Serve  with  sauce. 

26. — Ginger  Sherbet. 
Put  2  lbs.  of  sugar  and  2  quarts  of  water 
on  to  boil,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
then  boil  rapidly  for  5  minutes,  take  from 
the  fire  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cold, 
add  the  juice  of  6  nice  lemons  and  1  orange ; 
pour  into  the  freezer  and  freeze  without  much 
turning.  When  frozen  add  5  ozs.  of  pre- 
72 


May. 

served  ginger  chopped  fine,  then  pounded  to 
a  paste;  cut  i  oz.  in  very  thin  slices  and  add 
it  also.  Cover  the  freezing  can  and  stand 
away  for  2  hours  to  harden  and  ripen. 
—From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

27. — Beignet  Souffle. 
Put  1  pt.  of  milk  in  a  sauce  pan  with  a 
few  grains  of  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  2  ozs.  of  sugar,  some  grated 
lemon  peel  and  3  ozs.  of  flour,  wet  with  a 
little  of  the  milk  when  cold,  and  stirred  in 
when  it  boils  to  form  a  thick  paste.  Then 
add  the  lightly  beaten  yolks  and  whites  of  2 
eggs.  Let  it  stand  2  or  3  hours  and  then  fry 
in  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut  dropped  into 
hot  lard.  Serve  with  powdered  sugar  over 
and  sliced  lemon. 

28. — Prune  Pie. 
Cover  the  desired  amount  of  prunes  with 
water  and  soak  over  night ;  in  the  morning 
drain,  have  a  dish  lined  with  pie  crust,  fill 
with  the  prunes,  sprinkle  over  4  tablespoons 
of  sugar  and  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
cover  with  an  upper  crust  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  quick  oven  for  30  minutes.  The 
73 


May. 

moisture  of  the  prunes  should  blend  with  the 
sugar  and  form  a  syrup.  If  the  prunes  are 
hard  they  may  require  a  little  cooking  before 
going  into  the  pie,  but  if  they  are  soft,  the 
pie  will  be  richer  if  put  at  once  into  crust. 
The  lemon  juice  must  be  added  or  the  pie 
will  be  flat. 

29. — Meringues. 
Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  very  stiff 
froth ;  stir  in  carefully  eight  ounces  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  sugar, 
and  put  them  at  once  on  greased  paper,  this 
on  a  heavy  board  or  plank,  then  into  a  mod- 
erate oven  where  they  will  simply  dry.  If 
the  oven  is  hot,  they  will  swell,  crust  on  the 
outside,  then  fall,  and  you  have  a  result  very 
much  like  the  meringue  on  the  top  of  a  pie. 
It  is  wise  to  have  the  paper  greased,  fitted  on 
the  board,  and  the  oven  in  good  condition 
before  beginning  to  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs.  After  the  sugar  is  added,  the  mixing 
must  be  most  carefully  done  or  the  sugar  will 
melt,  making  the  whites  of  the  eggs  liquid, 
and  of  course  they  will  not  keep  their  shape. 
Kisses  may  be  made  with  the  pastry-bag  or 
in  round  shapes  with  a  teaspoon. 
74 


May. 

30. — Strawberry  Charlottes. 

Cover  one-fourth  of  a  box  of  gelatine  with 
a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  cold  water,  whip  one 
pint  of  cream  until  it  makes  three  pints.  If 
any  is  left  boil  it  with  one-third  of  a  cup  of 
granulated  sugar  (if  no  cream  is  left  over  a 
small  cup  full  of  milk) ;  when  boiling  add 
the  gelatine  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Strain 
it  into  a  bowl  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice.  Stand  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of 
crushed  ice,  stir  occasionally,  and  when  the 
mixture  is  cold  and  begins  to  thicken,  stir 
in  lightly  the  whipped  cream.  Line  a  mould 
with  whole  strawberries,  and  when  the  cream 
is  nearly  stiff  enough  to  dry  pour  it  into  the 
mould. — From  "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

31. — Italian  Cream. 

One  quart  whipped  cream ;  the  juice  of  2 
lemons  into  2  wine-glasses  of  wine  ;  6  ounces 
of  sugar.  Dissolve  2  ounces  of  gelatine  in  a 
small  quantity  of  water ;  let  this  boil  to- 
gether once,  and  when  milk-warm  add  the 
cream,  and  pour  into  moulds. 


75 


JUNE. 


i. — Cherry  Bread  Pudding. 

One  qt.  of  milk,  with  a  pinch  of  soda 
stirred  in,  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  4  eggs  or 
2  for  a  plain  pudding,  1  teacup  of  sugar,  1 
teacup  stoned  cherries.  Put  a  layer  of  bread 
and  butter  in  the  bottom  of  a  pie  dish, 
and  pour  upon  it  a  little  warm  custard  made 
of  the  beaten  eggs,  sugar  and  milk  ;  put  over 
this  a  layer  of  cherries,  then  more  bread  and 
butter  and  custard,  and  proceed  in  this  order 
till  the  dish  is  full,  taking  care  that  the  top  is 
bread  well  buttered.  Cover  with  a  dish,  and 
let  it  soak  for  an  hour  j  then  put  it  still  cov- 
ered in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  for  1 
hour ;  then  uncover  and  brown  delicately. 
Serve  hot. 

2. — Strawberry  Shortcake. 
Sift  together  1  qt.  of  flour,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls    of   baking    powder,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar  and   1  teaspoonful  of 
salt.     Chop  up  3  ozs.  of  butter  in  this  pre- 
76 


June* 

pared  flour.  Beat  one  egg  in  a  bowl,  add  to 
it  a  half  pt.  of  sweet  unskimmed  milk,  and 
mix  well.  Pour  this  quickly,  but  a  little  at 
a  time,  into  the  flour,  stirring  until  thoroughly 
mixed.  Roll  out  about  \]/2  inches  thick  and 
bake  in  a  large  well  greased  square  baking 
pan,  about  20  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven. 
When  done  split  in  halves  and  butter  both 
halves.  Place  one  on  a  large  dish  and  dust 
it  with  powdered  sugar.  Cover  it  well  with 
strawberries  slightly  mashed,  sprinkle  thickly 
with  powdered  sugar.  Place  the  other  half, 
crust  side  down  on  top  of  the  berries,  and 
cover  with  fruit  and  sugar  as  before.  Serve 
hot  with  cream. — ''Table  Talk." 

3. — Fruit  Jelly. 
Three-fourths  of  a  box  of  gelatine  dissolved 
in  y?  pint  of  cold  water.  Then  add  one  pint 
of  boiling  water,  juice  of  2  lemons,  2  cups 
of  sugar,  1  cup  of  wine;  strain,  and  when 
beginning  to  harden,  stir  in  the  following 
fruits  cut  up  in  pieces,  two  oranges,  2  ba- 
nanas, 6  figs,  9  dates,  10  English  walnuts. 
Pour  in  a  border  mould.  Serve  ice-cold  with 
whipped  cream  that  has  been  sweetened  and 
flavored  piled  high  in  the  centre. 
77 


June. 

4. — Strawberry   Pie. 

This  is  very  nice,  made  like  any  other  fruit 
pie,  but  it  is  nicer  if  the  berries  are  slightly 
mashed,  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar  and 
heaped  in  shells  of  paste  which  have  been 
previously  baked.  Pile  whipped  cream  on 
top.— "Table  Talk,"  Phila. 


5. — Cerealine  Fritters  with  Apples. 

Put  1  pt.  of  milk  on  to  heat  in  a  double 
boiler;  when  hot,  stir  in  y2  lb.  cerealine; 
cook  5  minutes,  add  y2  teaspoonful  salt,  3 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  grated  rind  of  y2  lemon, 
and  y  teaspoonful  mace.  Pare,  core  and 
quarter  3  good-sized  tart  apples,  put  into  glass 
and  with  No.  1  keystone  egg-beater,  first  cut 
the  apples  by  giving  a  backward  and  forward 
motion ;  then  turn  slowly  and  regularly  until 
the  apples  are  reduced  to  a  pulp ;  add  this  to 
the  hot  cerealine  mixture  and  turn  into  a 
square  greased  mould  to  cool.  When  cold, 
cut  into  blocks,  dip  in  a  thin  batter  made 
from  egg,  milk  and  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 
Serve  hot  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over 
them. — From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 
78 


June. 

6. — Iced  Cocoa. 
To  a  pt.  of  cocoa,  made  in  the  usual  way, 
add  y2  of  a  cup  of  whipped  cream.  Beat  it 
into  the  cocoa,  sweeten  to  taste  and  stand 
until  cool.  Serve  in  glasses  partly  filled  with 
chipped  ice. 

7. — Strawberry  Sponge  Cake. 
Make  an  ordinary  sponge  cake  from  6  eggs, 
bake  it  in  a  long  baking  tin  ;  when  done,  cut 
into  halves,  upon  y2  put  a  thick  meringue, 
made  from  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  beat  the  eggs 
until  light,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  until 
white.  Stand  large  strawberries  thickly  over 
this ;  put  on  the  upper  half,  cover  with  straw- 
berries neatly  arranged,  dust  with  sugar  and 
serve  with  cream. — From  "Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

8. — Pineapple  Jelly. 

Cover  one  box  of  gelatine  with  a  half  pint 
of  cold  water,  and  soak  it  half  an  hour. 
While  this  is  soaking  pare  and  grate  two 
medium-sized  pineapples.  After  the  pine- 
apples are  grated  you  should  have  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  pulp.  Add  to  this,  1 
79 


June. 

lb.  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add 
to  the  gelatine  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Strain  this  into  the  pineapple ;  mix  thor- 
oughly ;  turn  in  a  mould  and  stand  away  to 
harden.  Another  method  is  to  boil  the  pine- 
apple, the  same  amount  given  above,  in  one 
quart  of  water.  The  water  is  then  strained 
and  the  gelatine  added  to  it.  i  lb.  of  sugar 
is  then  stirred  in,  and  the  mixture  turned 
into  the  mould  to  harden. — "  Table  Talk." 

9. — Strawberry  Bavarian  Cream. 

Mash  sufficient  strawberries  to  make  one  pint 
of  strained  juice.  Cover  one-half  a  box  of 
gelatine  with  one-half  cup  of  cold  water  and 
let  it  stand  for  half  an  hour;  add  to  the 
strawberry  juice  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
stir  until  dissolved  ;  whip  one  pint  of  cream, 
put  the  juice  in  a  pan,  stand  it  in  another  of 
cracked  ice.  Now  add  a  gill  of  milk  to  the 
gelatine  and  stand  it  over  boiling  water  until 
thoroughly  melted,  strain  this  into  the  straw- 
berry juice,  then  add  the  whipped  cream  and 
stir  carefully  until  well  blended  and  partly 
congealed.  If  you  do  not  stir  until  the  mass 
begins  to  thicken  the  gelatine  will  settle  to 
80 


June* 

the  bottom.  You  should  have  a  perfectly 
light  charlotte.  Turn  this  into  a  greased 
mould  and  stand  away  to  harden.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  around  the  base,  or  you  may 
serve  it  with  a  garnish  of  fresh  strawberries. 
—From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

io. — Currant  Fritters. 

One  pt.  of  milk,  2  teacupfuls  of  flour,  y^  tea- 
cupful  of  currants,  3  eggs  beaten  stiff,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  y2  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Drop 
in  hot  lard  and  serve  with  wine  sauce. — 
From  Good  Housekeeping. 

11. — Turkish  Sherbet. 
Boil  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar  with  ^  of 
a  pt.  of  water  to  a  clear  syrup  •  skim  care- 
fully, and  when  cold  stir  into  it  %  of  a  pt. 
of  strained  lemon  juice  and  one  cup  of  clear 
white  stock. — From  "Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

12. — Jaune  Mange. 

Put  into  a  pint  of  water  the  thin  rind  of  a 
lemon  and  ^  lb.  of  sugar ;  put  it  on  the  fire 
and  allow  it  to  simmer  for  3  or  4  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time ;  add  an  oz.  and  a  half 

81 


June. 

of  gelatine,  and  stir  till  dissolved  ;  then  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  a  pint  of  sherry  and  the 
yolks  of  8  eggs.  Strain  and  put  into  moulds. 
Serve  cold. 

13. — Steamed  Wheat  Pudding. 
One  pint  of  flour,  one  egg,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  table- 
spoonful  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Steam  an  hour 
and  a  half,  and  serve  with  sauce.  Sauce. — 
One  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  the 
white  of  an  egg  beaten  stiff,  one  cup  straw- 
berries thoroughly  mashed. — Miss  L.  S. 

14. — Chess  Pie. 

For  2  pies ;  5  eggs,  %  of  a  cup  of  butter, 
1  cupful  sugar;  flavor  to  suit.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  sugar  together  until  the  froth  is 
perfect.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  creamy  froth, 
flavor  and  mix  quickly.  Bake  in  a  crust.  It 
will  rise  very  light.  As  soon  as  done  have 
ready  a  stiff  froth  made  of  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  sweetened  and  flavored.  Spread  this 
over  the  pie  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown 
a  delicate  shade.  Cut  and  lay  on  plates  be- 
fore cooling.  This  must  be  done  or  it  will  be 
heavy. 

82 


June. 

15. — Celestine   Cream. 

Imbed  a  plain  mould  in  some  rough  ice. 
Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  mould  with 
fresh  strawberries,  taking  care  to  put  each 
one  in  dissolved  gelatine,  in  which  has  been 
mixed  some  wine  to  flavor.  When  the  mould 
is  well  covered,  fill  with  the  following.  Pick 
over  a  box  of  strawberries,  bruise  them  with 
a  wooden  spoon  in  a  basin,  with  six  ounces 
of  fine  sugar,  rub  this  through  a  hair  sieve, 
add  a  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  two  ounces 
of  gelatine,  which  has  been  dissolved,  mix 
with  the  strained  strawberries  and  put  in  the 
mould.  Stand  away  to  harden  and  serve  very 
cold. 
16.— Heston  Pudding  with  Strawberries. 

Put  one  pint  of  water  in  a  sauce  pan. 
Moisten  four  even  tablespoon fuls  of  corn- 
starch in  a  little  cold  water.  Add  it  to  the 
boiling  water,  stir  and  cook  until  clear,  add 
a  half  cup  of  sugar.  Put  one  box  of  berries 
into  a  dish,  dust  them  with  sugar.  Beat  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  them 
into  the  pudding,  pour  it  over  the  berries  and 
stand  away  to  cool.  Make  a  soft  custard 
from  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk 
83 


June. 

and    four    tablespoonfuls    of    sugar. — From 
"  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

17. — Strawberry  Custard. 
Separate  four  eggs,  put  one  pint  of  milk 
into  a  double  boiler,  beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  until 
light,  add  them  to  the  milk,  stir  constantly 
until  the  thickness  of  cream,  take  from  the 
fire  and  stand  aside  to  cool ;  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  until  stiff,  add  to  them  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  again 
until  stiff  and  white.  Put  about  a  pint  of 
strawberries  into  a  glass  dish,  pour  over  the 
custard,  heap  the  whites  in  spoonfuls  over  the 
top,  dust  with  sugar,  stand  in  the  oven  a 
minute  to  brown.  Serve  icy  cold. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

18. — Pineapple  Sponge. 

One  small  pineapple  or  a  pint  and  a  half 
can,  one  small  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  box  of 
gelatine,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  water,  and 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  a 
half  cup  of  cold  water.  Chop  the  pineapple 
and  put  it  and  the  water  in  a  sauce  pan  with 
the  sugar,  and  the  remaining  cup  of  water. 
bi 


June* 

Simmer  ten  minutes ;  add  the  gelatine  ;  take 
from  the  fire  and  strain.  When  cool,  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  until  the 
mixture  begins  to  thicken  ;  pour  into  a  mould 
and  let  it  harden.  Serve  with  soft  custard 
flavored  with  wine. 

ig. — Strawberry  Flummery. 

Place  one  quart  of  strawberries  in  a  farina 
boiler,  allow  them  to  heat  just  a  little  while 
until  the  juice  flows  freely.  Have  ready  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  moistened  in  a 
gill  of  cold  water;  add  to  the  berries  one 
pint  of  boiling  water  and  a  cup  of  sugar; 
stir  in  the  cornstarch,  stir  rapidly  for  a  mo- 
ment and  turn  into  a  mould.  Serve  icy  cold 
with  whipped  cream. — From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

20. — Egg  Puffs  with  Sauce. 
Take  two  eggs,  beat  well,  then  add  five 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  spoonful  of  butter, 
and  a  half  cup  of  milk,  beat  all  together. 
Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder.  Put  in  a  muffin  pan  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Sauce. — One  cup  of 
milk,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of 
85 


June. 

butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Mix.  Place 
on  the  range,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  flavor 
to  taste.     Serve  hot. 

21. — Punch  A'la  Cardinal. 

Make  a  raspberry  water  ice  as  follows : 
Add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  one  cup  of 
sugar,  to  a  quart  of  red  raspberries  mashed,  and 
let  stand  for  thirty  minutes.  Press  through  a 
sieve,  add  i  pt.  of  water,  %  of  a  cup  of 
maraschino,  and  ^  of  a  cup  of  red  curacoa. 
Freeze  as  water  ice,  and  serve  in  glasses. — 
From  "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

22. — Vols  Au  Vent  of  Strawberries. 

Make  a  good-sized  vols  au  vent  from  puff 
paste,  and  when  you  take  it  from  the  pan 
brush  the  top  with  the  yolk  of  egg  and  cover 
thickly  with  granulated  sugar,  return  to  the 
oven  until  you  have  a  sort  of  glaze  all  over 
the  surface.  When  you  are  ready  to  serve,  fill 
with  fresh  strawberries.  Heap  the  top  with 
whipped  cream  and  dot  with  perfect  berries 
and  serve. — From  "Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

23. — Bonny  Clabber. 
When  the  milk  turns,  that  is,  becomes  sour, 
smooth  and  thick,  put  it  carefully  into  a  glass 

86 


June. 

dish,  stand  away  to  get  very  cold,  dust 
heavily  with  powdered  sugar,  then  sprinkle 
slightly  with  nutmeg  and  serve  with  sweet- 
ened cream. — From  "  Table  Talk." 

24. — Strawberry  Souffle. 

Cover  half  a  box  of  gelatine  with  half  a  cup 
of  cold  water  and  soak  half  an  hour,  then  add 
half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the 
gelatine  is  dissolved.  Mix  one  pint  of  straw- 
berry juice  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  together  until  they  form  a  syrup.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  six  eggs  to  a  cream ;  add  them 
to  the  syrup ;  beat  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
Whip  one  quart  of  cream.  Strain  the  gel- 
atine into  the  syrup  and  eggs,  turn  into  a 
freezer  and  freeze.  When  frozen,  stir  in 
lightly  and  hastily  the  whipped  cream.  Re- 
pack the  freezer  and  stand  -aside  for  two 
hours.  This  is  enough  for  fifteen  people. — 
" Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

25. — Strawberry  Cream  Pudding. 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  farina  boiler  to 

scald.     Moisten  four  even  tablespoonfuls  of 

cornstarch    with  a   little  cold  milk;    stir    it 

into  the  hot  milk  and  cook  until  smooth  and 

87 


June* 

thick.  Add  a  half  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and 
a  half  tumbler  of  strawberry  jelly.  Beat  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry ;  stir 
them  quickly  into  the  pudding  and  turn  out 
to  cool.  Serve  very  cool  with  sugar  and 
cream. — From  "Table  Talk,"   Phila. 

26. — Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 
Scald  one  pint  of  cream  and  one  pint  of 
milk  mixed.  Take  it  from  the  fire  and  dis- 
solve in  it  half  a  pound  granulated  sugar. 
Mash  three  pints  of  ripe  strawberries,  and 
strain  the  juice  through  a  piece  of  cheese 
cloth.  Mix  with  it  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
and  when  it  is  all  dissolved  add  it  to  the  milk 
and  cream.  When  cold  freeze. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

27. — Victoria  Fritters. 

Slice  a  loaf  of  baker's  bread  into  pieces 
an  inch  thick ;  cut  the  slices  in  the  centre, 
trimming  off  the  crust  and  place  them  on  a 
flat  dish.  Take  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  one 
salt  spoonful  of  salt,  eight  beaten  eggs.  Stir 
the  whole  together  and  pour  on  the  bread 
several  hours  before  dinner,  that  it  may  be 
equally  moistened.  Fry  in  hot  butter  a  deli- 
cate brown,  and  eat  with  wine  sauce. 
88 


June* 

28. — Strawberry  Sponge. 

Soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  half  cup 
of  water.  Hull  and  mash  one  quart  of  straw- 
berries, and  sprinkle  over  them  half  a  cupful 
of  sugar.  Boil  one  cup  of  water  and  half  a 
cup  of  sugar  together  twenty  minutes,  but  do 
not  boil  hard.  Rub  the  berries  through  a 
fine  sieve;  add  the  soaked  gelatine  to  the 
boiling  syrup ;  take  from  the  fire,  turn  into  a 
bowl  and  add  the  berry  juice;  stir  until  the 
gelatine  is  all  dissolved,  add  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  crushed  ice 
and  beat  with  an  egg  beater  for  five  minutes, 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  and  beat 
the  whole  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour 
into  wet  moulds  and  set  on  ice  to  harden. 
Serve  very  cold  with  cream. — "  Table  Talk." 

29. — Lalla  Rookh. 

This  punch  is  made  by  the  addition  of  half 
a  cup  of  Jamaica  rum  to  a  quart  of  vanilla 
ice  cream.  When  the  cream  is  partly  frozen, 
remove  the  dasher  and  beat  in  the  rum  with 
a  spoon.  Freeze  to  the  consistency  of  an  ice 
and  serve  in  glasses. — From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

89 


June. 

30. — Currant  Shortcake. 
Add  to  two  cups  of  flour  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
granulated  sugar ;  rub  in  one-half  of  a  cup 
of  butter  and  add  one  cup  of  milk,  mixing 
quickly  but  thoroughly.  Beat  one  egg  lightly 
without  separating,  add  to  the  dough,  mix 
well  and  turn  into  greased  pie  tins.  Bake 
twenty  minutes,  or  to  a  delicate  brown,  in  a 
quick  oven.  Mix  one  quart  of  picked  cur- 
rants with  one  cup  of  sugar,  mash  them  a 
little  and  let  them  stand  while  the  shortcake 
is  baking,  split  and  butter  the  cake  as  soon 
as  taken  from  the  oven.  Spread  with  the 
currants  and  serve. — From  "Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 


90 


JULY. 


i. — Caramel  Bavarian  Cream. 

Soak  3^  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one  cup  of 
cold  water  for  ^  hour.  Dissolve  over  hot 
water.  Whip  one  qt.  of  cream  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  turn  into  a  basin.  Add  carefully 
one  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  the  gelatine, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  caramel,  i  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  and  %  cup  of  sherry.  Stir  gently 
from  the  bottom  toward  the  top  until  the 
cream  begins  to  form.  Then  turn  into  a 
mould  previously  wet  with  cold  water  and 
put  away  to  harden. — From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

2. — Strawberry  Tapioca. 

Wash  y2  a  pt.  of  tapioca  in  cold  water, 
then  cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  over 
night.  Next  morning  add  I  pt.  of  boiling 
water,  place  over  the  fire  and  simmer  until 
clear.  Stir  in  i  qt.  of  ripe  strawberries, 
91 


July. 

turn  into  a  dish  and  stand  away  to  cool. 
Serve  very  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. — 
"  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

3. — Neapolitan  Mousse. 

Soak  ]^  of  a  box  of  gelatine  for  y2  an 
hour  in  ^  of  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Whip  1 
pt.  of  cream.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  over  hot 
water.  Cut  %  of  a  lb.  of  candied  cherries 
and  the  same  of  blanched  almonds  into  small 
pieces.  Turn  the  cream  into  a  dish,  add  the 
gelatine,  ^  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1 
teaspoonful  of  sherry,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
and  the  fruit  and  nuts.  Stir  carefully  from 
the  bottom  toward  the  top  until  it  begins  to 
stiffen.  Turn  into  an  ice  cream  mould  pre- 
viously wet  with  cold  water.  Cover  with  a 
piece  of  greased  writing  paper,  turned  greased 
side  up,  and  fit  the  cover  of  the  mould  on 
tightly.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand 
one  hour.  If  it  is  necessary  to  hurry  the 
freezing,  turn  the  mousse  first  into  a  freezer 
and  freeze  slowly  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Remove  the  dasher,  take  from  the  freezer, 
put  in  the  mould  and  let  stand  packed  for  one 
or  two  hours. — From  "  Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

92 


July. 

4. — Rice  Jelly. 

Cover  j^  of  a  box  of  gelatine  with  % 
of  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  soak  y2  an 
hour.  Boil  4  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  in  a 
large  kettle  of  boiling  water  for  30  minutes ; 
allow  the  rice  to  boil  rapidly  so  that  the 
grains  will  not  stick  together ;  drain  and  turn 
the  rice  carefully  on  a  towel  from  side  to 
side  until  the  rice  is  entirely  free  from  moist- 
ure. Whip  1  pt.  of  cream,  put  it  into  a 
basin,  stand  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice,  add  2/$ 
of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  and  if  you  use  wine,  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  sherry,  sprinkle  over  the  rice.  Stand  the 
gelatine  over  the  teakettle,  strain  it  into  the 
cream,  and  stir  constantly  but  carefully  until 
the  whole  is  partly  congealed,  or  until  the 
rice  remains  on  top,  turn  into  moulds  that 
have  been  wet  in  cold  water,  and  stand  away 
to  cool ;  take  y2  tumbler  of  currant  jelly, 
add  to  it  a  gill  of  water  and  stir  over  the  fire 
until  thoroughly  melted,  put  through  a 
strainer,  and  when  the  pudding  is  ready  to 
serve,  turn  carefully  from  the  mould,  pour  over 
this  jelly  and  serve. — "  Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

93 


My. 

5. — Strawberry  Dumpling. 

Make  a  dough  precisely  the  same  as  for  short- 
cake, roll  into  a  thin  sheet  and  cut  with  a  large 
round  cutter,  put  3  strawberries  in  the  centre 
of  each,  fold  the  dough  over,  roll  gently  in 
the  hand  until  you  have  a  ball-shaped  dump- 
ling, stand  these  dumplings  on  a  buttered 
plate,  place  them  in  a  steamer  and  steam 
twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  strawberry 
sauce.  Beat  2  ozs.  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add 
gradually  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  then  add 
1  mashed  strawberry,  beat  it  well,  add 
another,  and  so  continue  until  the  sauce  is  a 
beautiful  pink.  If  the  strawberries  give  the 
sauce  a  curdled  appearance,  add  just  a  little 
more  sugar;  stand  on  the  ice  to  harden. — 
From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

6. — Crusades. 

Cut  rather  stale  bread  into  slices  an  inch 
and  a  half  thick,  then  cut  these  into  rounds 
with  a  round  cutter ;  select  another  }4  the 
size,  and  stamp  or  cut  it  down  half  way  into 
the  round  of  bread.  Now  scoop  out  the 
crumbs,  leaving  a  well  in  the  centre.  After 
you  have  the  desired  number,  plunge  them 
into  a  kettle  of  smokir.g-hot  fat,  and  fry  until 
U4 


July. 

a  golden  brown  ;  take  out  and  turn  quickly 
upside  down  to  drain.  When  dry  dust 
thickly  with  powdered  sugar,  fill  with  pre- 
served strawberries  and  serve. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

7. — Cocoanut  Pudding. 
One  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  ^  lb.  of 
sugar,  6  eggs,  y2  lb.  of  butter,  1  glass  of 
wine.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  very  light, 
add  the  eggs  separately  beaten,  and  y2  a 
teacup  of  grated  sponge-cake.  Bake  half  an 
hour  and  ornament  with  strips  of  citron. 
Serve  with  liquid  wine  sauce. 

8. — Lemon  Foam. 

Beat  8  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately ; 
to  the  yolks  add  y2  lb.  of  sugar,  the  juice  and 
grated  peel  of  3  lemons.  If  preferred  in  a 
mould  add  y2  an  oz.  of  gelatine  dissolved  in 
a  little  water ;  let  it  simmer  2  or  3  times  over 
the  fire  till  it  thickens.  When  cool  whip  the 
whites  to  a  froth,  put  them  in,  and  beat  well.  If 
made  without  gelatine,  serve  in  glasses  or  a  dish. 

9. — Alexandrines. 

Put  y2  lb.  of  sugar  and  y2   pt.  of  water 
over  the  fire  and    boil,  after  it    begins   to 
95 


July. 

boil,  for  about  5  minutes  or  until  it  spins 
a  thread  from  the  tine  of  a  fork.  Have 
ready  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten.  Add 
them  to  the  boiling  syrup  and  beat  con- 
stantly for  at  least  15  minutes  until  the 
mixture  looks  like  sponge-cake  batter.  Now 
add  a  dessertspoonful  of  vanilla  extract  or 
better  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  sugar.  Add 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  water  and  turn  the 
mixture  into  a  freezer  and  freeze.  This  is 
nothing  but  an  egg  water-ice.  Now  have 
ready  %  of  a  lb.  of  conserved  fruit  chopped 
fine.  You  may  use  a  mixture  of  cherries, 
pineapples,  grapes  and  if  you  like  apricots, 
or  you  can  use  cherries  alone.  Stir  these 
in  and  stand  aside  for  one  hour  to  ripen. 
It  must  not  stand  too  long  as  the  fruit  will 
harden  so  as  to  be  uneatable. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

10. — Ginger  Sherbet. 

Make  a  lemon  water  ice  and  freeze,  cut 
4  ozs.  of  preserved  ginger  into  very  small 
pieces,  adding  to  it  2  tablespoon fuls  of  the 
ginger  syrup. — From  "  Table  Talk,"  Phila- 
delphia. 

96 


July. 

ii.— Stuffed  Spanish  Cake. 

Take  a  cold  sponge  cake  of  the  desired 
size  and  soak  thoroughly  in  sweet  Spanish 
wine;  stick  closely  over  the  surface  large 
seedless  raisins  and  blanched  almonds.  Just 
before  serving  pour  over  a  cold,  rich,  Spanish 
cream,  which  is  composed  of  6  eggs,  pint  of 
milk,  teacup  of  sugar,  a  stick  of  cinnamon 
and  a  stiff  jelly  whipped  in  at  the  time  of  serv- 
ing.—From  ''Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

12. — Cream  Cornstarch  Pudding. 
Put  i  pt.  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler. 
Measure  4  even  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch. 
Moisten  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  add  this  to 
the  hot  milk ;  add  a  half  cup  of  sugar,  stir 
and  cook  constantly  for  5  minutes,  then  take 
from  the  fire ;  add  hastily  the  beaten  whites 
of  4  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  turn 
into^amould  to  cool.  Serve  with  custard 
made  from  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  poured 
around.— "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

13. — Delmont  Pudding. 

Set  1  qt.  of  milk  into  water  and  let  it  boil ; 

beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  with  4  tablespoonfuls 

of  cornstarch,   and   1  cup  of   sugar.     Cook 

97 


July. 

in  the  milk,  and  flavor  to  taste.  Beat  the 
whites  of  5  eggs  with  y2  cup  of  sugar,  flavor, 
and  pour  over  the  top.  Set  in  the  oven  until 
a  light  brown. 

14.— Bake  Well  Pudding. 
Line  a  deep  English  pie  dish  with  rich 
paste  rolled  thin,  cover  with  preserves  to  the 
depth  of  1  inch.  Then  beat  together  the 
yolks  of  8  eggs,  and  whites  of  2,  ^  lb.  of 
butter,  %lb.  of  powdered  sugar,  flavor  with 
almond  and  thoroughly  mix ;  pour  over  the 
preserves  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till 
set,  then  beat  the  remaining  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  a  little  sugar,  pile  over  the  pud- 
ding, return  to  the  oven  to  brown.  This  is 
to  be  eaten  cold.— From  "Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

15. — Nesselrode  Pudding,  (Francatelli). 
Make  a  pulp  of  3  doz.  large  chestnuts; 
put  into  a  sauce  pan  with  the  yolks  of  8 
eggs,  1  pt.  of  cream,  a  small  vanilla  bean 
powdered,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  y2  pt. 
of  pineapple  syrup.  Stir  these  ingredients 
over  the  fire  until  the  eggs  begin  to  thicken ; 
take  the  cream  from  the  fire,  rub  it  through 


July. 

a  fine  sieve,  cool  and  half  freeze.  While 
the  pudding  is  being  frozen,  cut  the  follow- 
ing fruit  in  small  pieces  and  put  it  into  a 
bowl  with  a  gill  of  maraschino  :  ^  lb.  seed- 
less raisins,  candied  cherries,  candied  pine- 
apple, citron  and  y2  pt.  of  cream  whipped. 
When  the  pudding  is  half  frozen  mix  the 
cream  and  fruit  with  it  and  finish  freezing. — 
From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

1 6.— Will's  Sago  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  boiling  water  turned  upon  a 
cup  of  sago.  Have  your  pudding  dish  filled 
with  apples  pared  and  quartered.  Stir  the 
sago  well,  and  turn  over  the  apples ;  bake  and 
eat  with  sauce,  or  cream  and  sugar.  Tapioca 
can  be  cooked  the  same  way. 

17. — Strawberry  Sherbet. 

Mash  1  qt.  of  ripe  strawberries  with  1  lb. 
of  granulated  sugar;  add  the  juice  of  1 
lemon  and  1  tablespoon ful  of^  rose  water. 
Let  it  stand  for  2  hours,  then  strain  through 
a  cheese  cloth ;  add  1  pint  of  water  and 
stand  in  ice  until  wanted. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

99 


July, 

18. — Farina  Pudding. 

Boil  i  qt.  of  milk,  sprinkle  in  gradually  2 
even  tablespoonfuls  of  farina,  and  stir  well  till 
it  thickens,  then  let  it  boil  slowly  about  5 
minutes.  Take '  3  beaten  eggs,  l/>  cup  of 
sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  a 
little  salt,  and  stir  into  the  farina  and  milk. 
Flavor  with  lemon ;  bake  ^  an  hour  in 
quick  oven,  and  eat  warm. 

19 — Whortleberry  Pie. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  berries;  place 
them  an  inch  thick  on  the  under  crust, 
covering  them  thickly  with  sugar;  add  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  cover  with  the  upper 
crust  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Blackberry 
and  raspberry  pies  are  made  the  same  way. 
They  require  no  spice ;  but  whortleberries 
are  greatly  improved  by  having  a  few  cur- 
rants or  the  juice  of  a  lemon  mixed  with 
them.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  all  fruit  pies 
before  serving. 

20. — Gelatine  Cream. 

Cover   %  box  of  gelatine  with  ^  of  a 

cup  of  cold  water,  soak  y2  an  hour ;  then  add 

to  it  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  y2  pt.  of  hot 

100 


July. 

milk,  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved ;  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  strain  and  turn  in  a 
basin  to  cool.  When  cool,  beat  rapidly  for 
5  minutes,  put  in  a  mould  in  a  cold  place  to 
harden.— From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

21.— Pineapple  Sherbet. 
Put  2  cups  of  water,  and  3  cups  of  sugar 
on  to  boil.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved 
then  boil  5  minutes.  Take  a  pint  can  of 
pineapple  and  pour  as  much  as  possible  juice 
and  all  through  a  colander.  Add  this  to  the 
sugar  and  water  with  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Set  away  to  cool.  When  cool,  strain  into 
freezer  and  freeze  steadily  until  quite  stiff. 
Remove  the  dasher  and  add  white  of  1  egg 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  1  tablespoonfui 
powdered  sugar.  Beat  well  with  spoon,  pack, 
and  set  aside  to  ripen. — From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

22. — German  Souffle. 

Put  a  thick  layer  of  stewed  apples  at  the 
bottom  of  a  dish.  Make  a  custard  with  the 
well  beaten  yokes  of  3  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Pour  the  custard  over 
the  stewed  apples;  beat  the  whites  of  the 
lol 


July. 

eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  and  when  the 
custard  is  cold  pile  it  on  the  top ;  then  bake 
lightly  and  serve  hot. — From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

23. — Rice  Pudding;. 

One  quart  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  rose  or  vanilla  extract,  1  tea- 
spoonful  butter,  y2  cup  of  rice  ;  merely  wash 
the  rice,  and  after  adding  it  to  the  sweetened 
pudding,  put  in  the  oven,  occasionally  stir- 
ring it  for  the  first  4  minutes.  It  will  be  of 
the  consistency  of  ice  cream  and  very  delicate. 
Bake  until  brown  on  top. 

24. — Cantaloupe  Bavarian  Cream. 

Cover  y2  a  box  of  gelatine  with  half  a  cup 
of  cold  water  and  let  stand  for  half  an  hour ; 
dissolve  over  hot  water.  Whip  1  pint  of 
cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  turn  into  a  basin,  add 
half  a  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  1  tablespoonful 
of  sherry  and  the  gelatine.  Stir  from  the 
bottom  toward  the  top  until  it  begins  to  form  a 
little,  add  ^of  a  cup  of  chopped  candied  fruit 
and  continue  stirring  until  the  cream  forms. 
Turn  into  a  mould  previously  wet  with  cold 
102 


July. 

water  and  stand  away  to  harden.  When 
ready  to  serve  sprinkle  chopped  angelica  over 
the  top  and  serve  on  a  garnish  of  lady  fingers. 
—From  "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

25. — Fairy  Toast. 

Toast  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake,  and  cut 
into  pieces  2  inches  square.  Put  a  half 
tumbler  of  apple  or  any  light  colored  jelly 
into  the  glass  of  No.  1  Keystone  egg  beater 
and  beat  slowly  and  continuously  until  very 
light ;  then  mix  in  carefully  the  well-beaten 
white  of  1  egg.  Spread  this  over  the  squares 
of  toast,  and  place  a  large  canned  cherry  in 
the  middle  of  each  square.  Serve  cold  with 
cream. — From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

26. — Nantucket  Berry  Pudding. 

Wet  with  milk  or  water  1  pt.  of  grated 
cold  potatoes,  1  pt.  of  flour,  %  of  a  lb.  of 
butter,  a  teaspoon ful  of  salt,  to  the  consistency 
of  soft  biscuit-dough,  roll  it,  spread  with  any 
berries  or  even  dried  ones  or  zante  currants. 
Roll  again  and  fasten  in  a  cloth.  Steam  an 
hour  and  a  quarter.  Eat  with  any  sweet 
sauce. 

103 


July. 

27. — Farina  Pudding. 
Heat  1  qt.  of  milk  to  the  boiling  point. 
Stir  in  dry  5  tablespoonfuls  of  farina  and  con- 
tinue to  stir  till  quite  thick.  Add  1  cupful 
of  sugar  and  }i  teaspoon ful  of  salt.  Flavor 
with  lemon  or  vanilla  and  eat  with  sweetened 
cream  or  milk. 

28. — Vanilla  Ice  Cream,  (Philadelphia). 
Scald  1  pt.  of  cream ;  add  one  cup  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  stir  continually  not 
only  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  but  for  fully 
10  minutes.  The  cream  should  look  blue 
and  thin.  When  cooked  sufficiently  take 
from  the  fire,  add  another  pt.  of  cream 
and  cool.  When  cold  add  1  tablespoonful 
of  vanilla  and  freeze. — From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

29. — Peach  Tapioca  Pudding. 
Set  ]/2  pint  of  tapioca  in  cold  water  for  2 
or  3  hours,  then  place  on  stove  until  it  boils. 
Sweeten  with  white  sugar.  Peel  and  slice 
ripe  peaches  to  nearly  fill  a  baking-dish; 
sprinkle  over  them  white  sugar,  then  pour 
over  the  tapioca  and  bake  slowly  for  1  hour. 
To  be  eaten  with  cream  and  sugar. 
104 


July. 

30.— Apple  Souffle. 
Chop  8  apples,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  j4  a 
pound  of  white  sugar,  and  a  piece  of  lemon 
peel,  boil  to  a  marmalade  stirring  all  the 
time.  Beat  lightly  with  a  little  sugar  the 
whites  of  6  eggs,  take  out  the  lemon  peel,  add 
the  apples  to  the  eggs.  Put  in  a  buttered 
dish ;  smooth  the  top  with  a  knife  and  bake 
25  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

31. — Tapioca  Ice. 

Soak  one  cup  of  pearl  tapioca  over  night, 
in  the  morning  boil  in  water  until  it  clears, 
adding  1  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Have 
a  ripe  pineapple  chopped  (not  too  fine)  and 
turn  the  tapioca  and  sugar  over  it  while  boil- 
ing hot,  stir  and  turn  into  a  mould  to  cool. 
To  be  eaten  with  sugar  and  cream. 


105 


AUGUST. 


i. — Banana  Pudding. 

Cut  sponge  cake  in  slices,  and  in  a  glass 
dish,  put  alternate  layers  of  cake  and  slices 
of  banana.  Make  a .  soft  custard,  flavor 
with  a  little  wine,  and  pour  over  it.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  heap 
over  the  whole. 

2. — Watermelon  with  Sherry. 

Take  a  ripe  watermelon  and  cut  out  a  deep 
plug.  Through  this  pour  gently  and  slowly 
i  pt.  (or  more  if  the  melon  will  hold  it)  of 
sherry,  put  in  the  plug  and  put  it  on  the  ice 
for  5  or  6  hrs.  or  until  the  sherry  has  per- 
meated the  melon. 

3. — Kiss  Pudding. 

Put  1  pt.  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler  to 
heat.  Moisten  4  even  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch in  a  little  cold  milk.  Then  stir  it  into 
the  hot  milk  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  a  half 
cup  of  sugar,  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs 
106 


August. 

and  t  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  pud- 
ding-pan and  sprinkle  with  a  layer  of  grated 
eocoanut.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  dry  froth  ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar  ;  mix  lightly  and  heap  over  the 
pudding.  Put  in  the  oven  a  moment  to 
brown.  Watch  carefully  as  it  takes  but  an 
instant  to  burn.  Serve  cold. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

4. — Pineapple  Souffle  Frozen. 

Separate  6  eggs ;  beat  the  yolks  until 
creamy.  Pare  and  grate  2  medium  pineap- 
ples ;  the  pulp  must  measure  1  pt.  Add  to 
this  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  1  It),  of  granu- 
lated sugar ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly 
dissolved.  Cover  ^  box  of  gelatine  with 
)/,  cup  of  cold  water  and  allow  it  to  soak 
while  the  pineapple  is  being  prepared  ;  add 
the  beaten  yolks  to  the  pineapple  ;  mix  care- 
fully. Put  the  gelatine  over  a  kettle  of  hot 
water  and  when  thoroughly  dissolved,  add  it 
to  the  pineapple.  Turn  the  pineapple  into 
a  tin  basin  and  stand  this  in  a  pan  of  cracked 
ice  ;  stir  carefully  until  the  mixture  begins  to 
thicken ;  then  add  hastily  1  pt.  of  cream, 
thoroughly  whipped,  turn  this  into  a  mould, 
107 


August* 

put  on  the  lid  ;  bind  the  seam  with  a  piece 
of  muslin  dipped  in  butter  or  melted  suet, 
and  pack  the  mould  in  salt  and  ice;  let  it 
stand  2  hours.  This  should  be  frozen  at  least 
i  inch  on  the  outside  j  the  centre  soft. — 
"Table  Talk." 

5. — Iced  Peaches. 

Pare  the  peaches  and  mash  them,  add  1 
pt.  of  water,  and  y2  lb.  of  sugar,  stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved,  then  turn  into  a  small 
freezer,  pack  with  coarse  salt  and  ice,  turn 
until  frozen  and  serve  at  once. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

6. — Gold  and  Silver  Pudding. 

One  qt.  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  6  eggs, 
leaving  out  the  whites  of  4 ;  scald  the  milk  ; 
add  sugar  and  dissolve  cornstarch,  and  1 
wine-glass  of  sherry ;  bake  for  y2  an  hour, 
when  cold  cover  with  a  frosting  made  of  the 
whites  of  4  eggs,  a  cup  of  pulverized  sugar, 
add  flavoring,  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

7. — Tapioca  Cream. 

Cover  three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  with 
cold  water,  and  soak  for  3  hours.     Drain  and 
put  in  the  farina  boiler  with    1  qt.  of  milk. 
108 


August* 

Cook  for  -fa  hour,  or  until  the  tapioca  is 
very  clear  and  soft.  Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs 
light,  add  to  them  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar 
and  beat  again.  Five  minutes  before  taking 
the  pudding  from  the  fire,  add  the  eggs  to 
the  milk  and  tapioca  and  stir  until  it  begins 
to  thicken.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  and  turn  into  a  greased 
baking  dish.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites 
of  3  eggs  with  4  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar,  cover  the  top  of  the  pudding  and 
brown  in  a  moderately  quick  oven.  Serve 
cold. 


8.— Pan  Cake. 

Separate  2  eggs,  beat  the  yolks,  add  to 
them  1  gill  of  milk,  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
tablespoon ful  of  melted  butter,  and  about  */i 
of  a  cup  of  flour,  beat  well,  add  the  well- 
beaten  whites.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  in 
a  frying-pan,  when  hot,  pour  on  a  very  thin 
layer  of  the  batter,  brown  on  1  side,  turn  and 
brown  on  the  other.  Spread  thickly  with  jam, 
roll,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve. 
The  batter  must  be  quite  thin. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Phila. 

109 


August* 

g. — Frozen  Mint. 

Make  a  plain  lemon  water-ice,  and  when 
frozen  very  hard,  add,  stirring  all  the  while 
a  mint  julep  made  as  follows  :  Bruise  sev- 
eral sprigs  of  mint  in  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
water  sweetened  with  one  lump  of  sugar ;  add 
1  cup  of  brandy  and  1  of  sherry ;  let  it 
stand  for  10  minutes  and  strain.  When  the 
julep  has  been  added  to  the  water-ice,  pack 
the  freezer  and  allow  the  mint  to  stand  some 
hours  to  ripen  before  freezing. 

10. — Apple  Sago. 

Cover  y2  pt.  sago  with  1  pt.  of  water,  soak 
over  night.  In  the  morning  add  one  pint  of 
hot  water ;  stand  a  sauce  pan  over  the  fire 
and  cook  very  slowly,  without  stirring,  until 
the  sago  is  clear.  If  the  water  has  been  en- 
tirely absorbed,  add  sufficient  to  make  it  the 
proper  consistency.  Pare  and  core  the  de- 
sired number  of  apples.  While  the  sago  is 
cooking  the  apples  can  also  be  cooking  in  the 
oven.  Put  them  in  a  tin  basin ;  add  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water.  Place 
them  in  the  oven  and  cook  slowly,  until  you 
can  pierce  them  with  a  fork.  Now  fill  the 
cores  with  sago  and  cover  them  all  over  with 
110 


August* 

what  remains.  Stand  the  mixture  away  un- 
til ice  cold.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. — 
From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

ii. — Frozen  Plum  Pudding. 
Put  i  pt.  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  add 
to  it  i  cup  of  stoned  raisins  ;  cover  the  boiler 
and  stand  over  a  moderate  fire  for  30  min- 
utes. Now  add  to  this  milk,  y2  lb.  of  al- 
monds, that  have  been  dried  and  grated,  12 
good- sized  boiled  chestnuts  chopped  into 
small  pieces,  ^  of  a  lb.  of  citron  shredded, 
and  if  you  can  get  it,  J^  of  a  lb.  of  candied 
pineapple;  let  all  these  soak  together  for  1 
hour.  Put  a  pt.  of  cream,  now,  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  add  to  it  9  ozs.  of  sugar.  Stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Take  it  from 
the  fire,  and  add  1  pt.  of  uncooked  cream 
and  raisin  mixture;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy  and  the 
grated  rind  of  1  orange  and  1  lemon.  Turn 
this  mixture  into  the  freezer ;  stir  constantly 
until  the  mass  is  well  frozen.  Stand  away 
for  two  hours  to  ripen. 

12.— Frozen  Watermelon. 

Cut  from  the  side  of  the  melon  a  sort  of 
three  cornered  piece,  then  on  the  other  side 
111 


August. 

the  same,  forming  as  it  were  a  basket  with  a 
handle,  the  same  as  you  make  orange  baskets. 
Take  all  the  ripe  portion  and  put  aside  in  an 
earthen  bowl  and  trim  the  handle  and  basket 
in  good  shape.  Remove  the  seeds  from  the 
pulp  and  with  a  silver  spoon  chop  and  mash 
the  pulp  of  a  large  watermelon,  add  i  cup 
powdered  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, turn  into  a  freezer  and  freeze.  When 
ready  to  serve  put  back  into  the  watermelon 
rind  and  serve  at  once.  It  will  require  the 
ripe  portion  of  two  melons  to  fill  the  basket 
full,  in  a  small  family  a  basket  might  be  made 
from  half  the  rind,  making  a  long  handle, 
take  from  the  bottom  a  slice  to  make  it  stand 
even.— "Table  Talk." 

13. — Huckleberry  Shortcake. 
Beat  2  tablespoon fuls  butter  to  a  cream 
with  y2  cup  of  sugar;  add  1  egg  unbeaten, 
and  beat  the  mixture  very  light ;  add  4  ta- 
blespoonfuls  milk  and  %  of  a  cup  of  flour, 
to  which  has  been  added  1  teaspoonful  bak- 
ing powder ;  mix  quickly  and  lightly.  Bake 
in  well  greased,  deep  pie-plates  for  20  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven.  The  berries  must 
be  slightly  cooked  with  a  little  sugar  to  start 
112 


August. 

the  juice,  then  spread  on  the  cakes. — "  Table 
Talk." 

14. — Peach  Sherbet. 
Take  a  qt.  can  of  fine  peaches,  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Add  1  pt.  water,  1  cup 
sugar,  and  1  cup  orange  juice.  Freeze  like 
a  punch  and  serve  in  glasses,  adding  a  table- 
spoonful  of  champagne  to  each  glass  when 
served. — From  "Table  Talk." 

15. — Ambrosia. 

Slice  l/z  doz.  oranges  and  place  a  layer  of 
them  in  a  glass  dish.  Strew  over  it  powdered 
sugar  and  then  a  layer  of  dessicated  cocoa- 
nut.  Repeat  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and 
cocoanut  until  the  dish  is  full. — From  "Ta- 
ble Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

16. — Batter  Pudding  With  Peaches. 

Beat  2  eggs  without  separating  until  very 
light ;  add  ^  pt.  milk  then  3  cups  flour ;  beat 
until  smooth.  Add  a  tablespoonful  melted 
butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  beat 
again  and  stir  in  carefully  6  peaches,  pared 
and  cut  into  squares.  Pour  this  into  the 
mould  and  boil  continuously  for  2  hours. — 
From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 
113 


August* 

17. — Pudding  A'La  Zouave. 

Blanch  ^  lb.  almonds,  pound  them  in  a 
mortar,  a  few  at  a  time,  adding  ^  lb  of  butter ; 
then  add  4  well  beaten  eggs,  y2  pt.  milk,  ]/2 
pt.  sugar,  and  a  glass  of  raisin  wine.  Mix 
this  until  it  forms  a  smooth  paste,  then  stir  in 
1  lb.  grated  apples,  these  ingredients  being 
properly  mingled,  put  it  into  a  well  buttered 
mould  and  bake  1  hour.  The  raisin  wine  is 
simply  water  in  which  raisins  have  been 
steeped  for  two  hours,  then  cover  and  stand 
in  a  cool  place  24  hours. — From  "Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

18.— Baked  Peach  Pudding. 

Boil  y2  cup  rice  until  tender  in  plenty  of 
boiling  salted  water,  drain,  put  in  a  farina 
boiler  with  1  cup  peach  juice.  Cook  until 
the  juice  is  nearly  or  quite  absorbed,  then 
stir  into  it  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  and  2  ta- 
blespoonfuls  butter  and  yolks  of  2  eggs,  stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Grease  a  pud- 
ding dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  rice  then  a  layer 
of  peaches  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled. 
Bake  30  minutes. — "Table  Talk." 
114 


August* 

19. — Tapioca  and  Peach  Jelly. 

Soak  a  cup  of  tapioca  in  cold  water  for 
several  hours,  then  put  it  into  a  qt.  of  cold 
water,  and  let  it  cook  very  slowly  till  it  be- 
comes a  clear  jelly.  Add  a  dozen  ripe 
peaches  cut  into  very  small  pieces  and  2  cups 
of  sugar.  Let  this  cook  slowly  for  an  hour 
longer,  stirring  occasionally.  Turn  into  a 
mould  and  let  it  grow  perfectly  cold  before 
serving.     Serve  with  cream. 

20. — Minute  Pudding. 
Mix  5  tablespoon fuls  flour  with  )4  cup  of 
cold,  sweet  milk,  a  very  little  salt.  Stir  it  into 
\]/2  pts.  boiling  sweet  milk;  boil  1  minute 
stirring  constantly ;  remove  from  the  fire 
until  luke-warm,  add  3  beaten  eggs,  stir  until 
it  boils  and  eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

21. — Berry  Pudding. 
One  pt.  milk,  2  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  %  teaspoonful  soda,  y2  teaspoonful 
cream  of  tartar,  and  flour  to  make  a  thick 
batter.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  water, 
and  sift  cream  of  tartar  through  the  flour. 
One  pt.  whortleberries,  raspberries,  currants 
or  blackberries  dredged  with  flour,  stirred  in 
the  last  thing.  Steam  1  hour. 
115 


August 

22. — Biscuit  Glaces. 
Cook  i  lb.  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water  to- 
gether for  5  minutes,  then  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  vanilla  sugar  and  the  well  beaten  yolks 
of  6  eggs,  whisk  over  the  fire  for  a  minute 
and  strain  in  an  earthen  or  china  bowl.  Beat 
until  stiff  and  cold,  then  add  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  brandy.  Whip  1  pt.  of  cream,  stir  it 
into  the  mixture,  then  fill  small  biscuit  moulds. 
Pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  freeze  for  an  hour 
and  a  half  or  two  hours. — "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

23. — Sidney  Pudding. 
Seven  sponge  cakes  of  the  small  oblong 
kind,  3  oz.  of  ratafia  cake,  2  oz.  dried 
cherries,  1  pt.  of  milk,  5  yolks  of  eggs,  3 
whites  ditto,  1  wine-glass  of  brandy  and 
wine,  and  extract  of  orange.  Place  the 
mixture  after  it  is  well  mixed  in  a  pie-dish 
well  buttered,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Be 
very  careful  that  it  does  not  burn. 

24. — Apple  Marmalade  With  Sauce. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  6  lbs.  of  tart  apples  ; 
add  to  them  4  lbs.  of  granulated  sugar,  boil 
very  slowly  for  an  hour  or  until  thick  and 
116 


August. 

jelly  like.  When  nearly  done  add  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  ground  cloves,  turn  into  moulds 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  soft  custard. 

25. — Caramel  Ice  Cream. 
One  qt.  cream,  y2  ft-  sugar,  1  vanilla 
bean,  or  2  tablespoonfuls  ext.  Put  the  sugar,- 
y2  the  cream  and  the  bean  split  in  halves,  on 
to  boil  in  farina  boiler  ;  stir  constantly  for  10 
minutes;  take  from  the  fire,  take  out  the 
bean,  and  with  a  blunt  knife  scrape  out  the 
seeds  and  soft  parts  from  the  inside  of  the 
bean,  being  careful  not  to  waste  a  bit.  Mix 
the  seeds  thoroughly  with  the  cream  and 
stand  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  add  to  the 
remaining  cream  and  freeze. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Phila. 

26.— Milk  Sherbet. 

One  qt.  milk,  juice  of  3  large  lemons,  and 
1  pt.  sugar.  Mix  and  freeze  same  as  cream. 
The  milk  will  curdle  with  the  addition  of  the 
lemon  but  come  all  right  in  freezing. 

27.— Trifle  Pudding. 

Put  1  pt.  milk  in  double  boiler  over  fire ; 

separate  4  eggs,  beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 

add  to  the  yolks  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  beat 

until   light,    add    the  scalding   milk   to  the 

117 


August* 

yolks,  return  the  whole  to  the  double  boiler, 
stir  over  the  fire  for  just  a  moment,  until  the 
custard  is  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Now  take  from  the  fire  and  add  6  grated 
macaroons,  y£  teaspoonful,  or  10  drops  bitter 
almond  flavoring,  stand  aside  to  cool ;  drop 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  by  spoonfuls  on  top  of 
boiling  water,  let  them  cook  for  an  instant  re- 
move them  carefully,  stand  aside  to  cool. 
When  the  custard  is  cool  add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sherry ;  turn  into  a  glass  dish,  cap  it 
with  the  whites,  dust  it  wTith  powdered 
macaroons  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  The 
whites  of  the  eggs  may  be  omitted  if  you  like 
just  the  simple  custard. 

28. — Peach  Blanc  Mange. 

Cover  y2  a  box  of  gelatine  with  3^  a  cup 
of  cold  water  and  let  stand  for  y2  an  hour ; 
pour  over  it  1  cup  of  hot  scalded  milk  and 
stir  until  it  is  dissolved.  Select  8  nice  ripe 
peaches,  peel,  seed  and  press  through  a  sieve ; 
add  1  cup  of  pulverized  sugar.  Beat  1  pt. 
of  cream  gradually  into  the  peaches,  add  the 
dissolved  gelatine,  well  mixed,  pour  into 
moulds  and  stand  away  to  harden. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 
118 


August. 

29.— Tutti  Frutti. 
Put  1  pt.  sugar  and  1  qt.  of  water  over  the 
fire,  in  a  saucepan  ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  and  boil,  after  it  begins  to  boil,  5 
minutes.  Strain  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 
The  yellow  rind  of  1  orange  may  be  grated 
and  added  to  the  sugar,  before  it  is  put  over 
the  fire.  Select  12  large,  juicy  oranges; 
carefully  squeeze  out  the  juice  and  strain  it. 
Add  this  to  the  syrup.  Turn  this  mixture 
into  a  freezer,  and  press  very  hard,  stirring 
evenly  and  smoothly  all  the  while.  Have 
ready  the  following  mixture  of  fruit  so  that 
the  moment  the  ice  is  frozen,  you  may  stir 
the  mixture  in.  Chop  very  fine  y2  lb. 
candied  cherries,  y2  lb.  candied  apricots,  % 
R>.  candied  pineapples.  Mix  and  cover  the 
fruit  with  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  brandy  \  this  can  be  soaking 
while  you  make  the  water-ice,  and  when  that 
is  frozen  hard,  add  the  mixture,  remove  the 
dasher.  Repack  the  can,  stand  away  for  1^ 
or  2  hours.— "Table  Talk." 

30. — Lemon  Pie. 

Separate-    3    eggs,    add    gradually   to    the 
yolks  1  cup  of  sugar,  the  juice  and  rind  of  1 
119 


August. 

lemon,  beating  until  light.  Put  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  into  a  cup,  and  add  gradually  yz 
a  pt.  of  milk  ;  strain  this  into  the  eggs  and 
sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Put  it 
into  the  crust  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick 
oven  for  about  30  minutes,  or  until  the  centre 
of  the  pie  is  jelly  like.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  until  light,  then  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  beat  again  until  stiff. 
Heap  this  over  the  top  of  the  pie ;  return  to 
the  oven  until  a  golden  brown. — "Table 
Talk,"  Phila. 

31. — Apple  Fritters. 

Beat  3  eggs  very  light,  stir  in  1  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  1  pt.  milk,  2  cups 
chopped  apple,  2  cups  flour.  Stir  well  and  fry 
in  lard,  or  they  can  be  baked  on  a  griddle  as 
pancakes.  Sift  sugar  over  them  before  serv- 
ing. 


120 


SEPTEMBER. 


i.— Cafe  Parfait. 

Whip  i  qt.  of  cream,  sweetened  with  y2 
cup  of  powdered  sugar,  to  a  stiff  dry  froth  ; 
add  carefully  y2  cup  of  strong  black 
coffee,  and  turn  at  once  into  a  mould  or 
freezer.  If  a  mould  place  over  it  a  piece  of 
greased  writing-paper,  and  press  the  lid  down 
tightly;  if  in  a  freezer  remove  the  dasher. 
Pack  the  mould  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand 
for  3  or  4  hours  before  serving. — From  "  Ta- 
ble Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

2._Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  light,  add  grad- 
ually 1  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  until  light. 
Add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk  and  1  oz. 
of  chocolate  or  cocoa,  melted  over  hot  wa- 
ter. Mix  thoroughly,  add  1  cup  of  flour  and 
beat  until  smooth.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  dry  froth  and  add  quickly  to 
the  pudding  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Put  a  large  spoonful  in  greased  cups 
121 


September. 

and  steam  20  minutes.  Serve  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce.  Sauce. — Beat  1  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  y2  cup  of  butter  together 
to  a  cream.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  gradually,  l/2  cup  of  milk,  stirring  all 
the  while.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of  hot 
water.  Stir  until  the  sauce  is  smooth  and 
creamy,  no  longer. — From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

3. — Apple  Tapioca  Pudding. 
Soak  one  cup  of  tapioca  in  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  it ;  when  it  is  quite  soft,  stir 
in  3  beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
and  add  1  qt.  of  milk,  also  a  little  salt.  Fill 
a  pudding  dish  with  apples  pared  and  cored  ; 
stir  the  mixture  well  and  pour  over  the  ap- 
ples ;  bake  and  eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

4. — Whortleberry  Dumpling. 
1   qt.   whortleberries,   half  a   pt.   of  milk, 
half  a  cup  of  flour,  1  egg  beaten  very  light,  a 
little  salt.     Boil  an  hour  and  a  half. 

5. — Almond  Souffle. 

Put  a   ]/2   pint  of  milk  in  a  farina  boiler. 
Moisten   3  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  with 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk,  add  it  to  the 
122 


September. 

hot  milk,  cook  until  it  thickens,  add  a  J^  of 
a  lb.  of  grated  macaroons,  take  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  5  eggs. 
Fill  souffle  cups  "jA,  full  of  this  mixture,  stand 
them  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  for  20  minutes. 
Serve  immediately  with  a  light  wine  sauce. — 
From  "Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

6. — Nellie's  Corn  Pudding. 
Grate  1 2  ears  of  sweet  corn,  stir  into  a  qt. 
of  milk,  add  4  beaten  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Pour  the  mix- 
ture into  a  dish,  and  put  small  piece  of  butter 
on  top ;  bake  %  of  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven 
and  eat  hot  with  butter. 

7. — Iced  Pudding. 
One  qt.  of  cream  well  sweetened  flavored  with 
curacoa  and  frozen.  Put  into  a  mould  a  layer 
of  this  frozen  cream,  next  a  layer  of  maca- 
roons soaked  in  sherry,  then  a  layer  of  fruit 
or  sweet  meats  and  so  on  until  the  mould  is 
filled.  Cover  it  and  put  it  in  a  pail  of  ice 
and  salt,  let  it  stand  until  it  is  quite  stiff. 

8. — Frozen  Tapioca  Custard. 
Put   1   cup  of  pearl  tapioca  in  the  farina 
boiler  with  1  pt.  of  milk.      Cook  for  one  hour. 
123 


September* 

If  the  instantaneous  tapioca  is  used  such  long 
cooking  is  not  necessary.  Scald  i  pt.  of 
milk,  add  i  cup  of  sugar,  and  cook  for  10 
minutes.  Add  the  tapioca  with  the  milk  in 
which  it  has  been  cooking  and  cook  15  min- 
utes longer.  Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  very 
light,  add  to  the  custard,  stir  for  1  minute, 
remove  from  the  fire  and,  when  cool,  flavor 
with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla.  Turn  into 
the  freezer  and  freeze.  When  nearly  frozen 
beat  in  1  cup  of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff, 
dry  froth,  finish  freezing,  pack  and  stand 
away  to  ripen.  If  not  rich  enough  use  a  pt. 
of  cream  instead  of  the  cup. — "  Table  Talk." 

9. — Crumb  Pudding. 

Seed  and  chop  one  cup  of  raisins;  mix 
with  1  pt.  of  cake  crumbs.  Dissolve  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  in  a  very  little  warm  water, 
add  to  1  cup  of  molasses  and  mix  with  the 
crumbs.  Beat  2  eggs  light,  without  separat- 
ing ;  add  to  them  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and 
mix  with  the  crumbs  and  molasses.  Turn 
into  a  greased  pudding  mould.  Steam  2  hours 
and  serve  with  sauce. — From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

124 


September* 

io. — Quick  Puff  Pudding. 
Add  i  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der to  \y2  cups  of  flour ;  mix  well,  add  a  y? 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  i  tablespoonful  of 
cold,  hard  butter.  Work  the  butter  into  the 
flour  with  No.  2  egg  beater  by  quick,  short 
motions,  then  add  sufficient  milk  to  make  a 
rather  stiff  batter  ;  mix  thoroughly.  Grease 
muffin  cups  and  place  them  in  a  steamer; 
put  1  tablespoonful  of  batter  in  the  bottom 
of  each  cup,  then  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped 
uncooked  apple,  then  another  of  batter. 
Cover  the  steamer  and  steam  for  45  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  sauce.  Sauce. — Beat  j4  & 
cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  a  ]4 
cup  of  powdered  sugar ;  beat  until  very  light 
and  white.  Then  add  a  %  CUP  °f  thick 
cream  and  beat  again.  Flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla,  and  stand  away  until  very  cold. — 
From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

11.— Calf 's-foot  Jelly. 

Five  qts.  of  water  to  4  feet ;  boil  them  tender, 
strain  the  liquor,  when  cold,  take  off  the  fat, 
add  to  the  jelly  4  eggs,  1  lb.  sugar,  2  lemons, 
a  glass  of  rose  water  or  orange  juice,  a  little 
cinnamon  ;  boil  until  clear,  put  into  glasses. 
125 


September. 

12. — Fig  Rice. 

Boil  i  cup  of  rice  in  a  large  cup  of  water 
for  30  minutes,  then  drain  it  and  turn  into  a 
colander.  Stand  it  in  the  oven  until  the  rice 
is  white  and  dry.  Chop  y2  a  lb.  of  figs 
quite  fine ;  mix  them  carefully  with  the  rice, 
not  breaking  the  grains  ;  stand  the  colander 
over  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water,  cover  it 
with  a  lid  and  steam  slowly  for  20  minutes. 
The  colander  must  not  touch  the  water. 
Serve  hot  with  sweetened  cream. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

13. — Charlotte  De  Pommes  Aux  Abri- 
cots. 

Take  a  doz.  fine  pippin  apples,  cut  them  into 
quarters,  peel,  core,  and  put  in  a  pan  with  a 
lump  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinna- 
mon, the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  a  saltspoonful 
of  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  ^  lb.  of  powdered 
sugar.  Cook  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  when 
nearly  done  remove,  mix  with  it  ^  a  lb.  of 
apricot  marmalade,  put  it  in  a  mould,  which 
has  been  previously  buttered  and  lined  with 
thin  slices  of  bread  dipped  in  melted  butter  ; 
cover  the  apples  with  similar  slices  of  bread. 
Put  into  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  to  a  rich 
brown  color.  Serve  hot. 
126 


September* 

14. — Cottage  Pudding. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  1  egg  light,  add  to  it 
gradually  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  beating 
all  the  while,  y2  cup  of  milk,  1^  cups  of 
flour,  and  beat  until  light  and  smooth.  Beat 
the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth  and 
stir  it  gently  into  the  batter  with  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  powder.  Put  in  a  greased 
baking  dish  and  bake  25  minutes  in  a  slow 
oven. — "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

15. — Carolina  Cake. 

Cream  %  lb.  of  butter,  and  1  lb.  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  together,  then  work  in  gradually 
1  lb.  of  sifted  flour  ;  add  a  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  baking  powder,  and  then  stir  in  lightly 
and  rapidly  three  gills  of  thick,  sweet  cream. 
Bake  quickly  in  greased  gem-pans.  Serve 
warm. 

16. — Queen  of  Puddings. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  soaked  in  1  pt. 
of  milk,  a  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  8  eggs  and 
whites  of  4,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Make  a  meringue  of  the  four  whites  and  put 
127 


September. 

it  on  the  pudding  when  it  is  baked,  then  re- 
turn it  to  the  oven  for  just  time  enough  to 
brown. 

17. — Apple  Pan  Pie. 

Fill  a  deep  earthen  pudding-pot  with  slices 
of  apple,  pour  over  as  much  molasses  as  re- 
quired for  sweetening,  sprinkle  a  little  cinna- 
mon, cover  with  a  paste,  having  a  small  slit  in 
the  middle,  and  place  in  the  oven.  After  the 
first  paste  is  baked  it  may  be  taken  off, 
and  the  apple  remain  long  enough  to  be  a 
deep  red.  When  sufficiently  cooked  take 
from  the  oven  and  immediately  break  the  paste 
in  small  pieces  and  stir  into  the  sauce  while 
hot.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

18.— A  Sweet  Potato  Pudding. 

Bake  six  good-sized  white  potatoes.  When 
done  and  mealy,  scoop  out  the  centres,  and 
with  a  No.  1  Keystone  egg  beater  beat  until 
very  light,  add  two  ozs.  of  butter,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  four  tablespoon fuls  of 
cream  ;  beat  gently  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
Put  3  eggs  into  the  glass  without  separating, 
and  with  the  beater  beat  until  very  light ;  mix 
these  carefully  into  the  potatoes,  and  drop  by 
128 


September. 

spoonfuls  into  smoking  hot  fat.     Serve  hot, 
dusted  with  powdered  sugar. — "  Table  Talk." 

19. — Steamed  Bread  Pudding. 

Scald  1  pint  of  milk ;  add  1  cup  of  stale 
bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  1 
cup  of  sugar.  Mix  well,  and  let  it  stand  till 
cool.  Beat  3  eggs  light  without  separating. 
Add  to  the  pudding  with  y2  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla,  and  a  pinch  of  cinnamon.  Turn 
into  a  greased  pudding  mould,  and  steam  for 
1  y2  hours.  If  desired  fruit  can  be  added  to 
the  pudding,  either  raisins  and  currants 
flavored  and  added  with  the  eggs,  or  canned 
cherries  or  peaches  well  drained  from  their 
syrup.— From  "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

20. — French  Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 

Put  1  qt.  of  cream  into  a  farina  boiler  with 
a  small  vanilla  bean  ;  scald  and  strain.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  6  eggs  very  light  with  1  cup  of 
granulated  sugar ;  add  the  scalded  cream  to 
the  eggs  and  sugar,  return  to  the  farina  boiler 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Take  it  from  the  fire,  cool  and  freeze.  In 
using  the  bean  it  should  be  split  in  half  and 
all  the  seed  and  pulp  scraped  out.  Put  the 
129 


September. 

shell  or  outside  in  the  cream  when  it  is 
scalded;  add  the  seeds  and  the  pulp  to  the 
sugar. — From  "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

21. — Orange  Souffle,  (Frozen). 

One  quart  of  cream,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  i  pt. 
of  orange  juice,  ]/2  box  of  gelatine,  one  pound 
sugar.  Cover  the  gelatine  with  y2  cup  of 
cold  water,  and  soak  i  hour;  then  add  ^ 
cup  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  dissolved. 
Mix  the  orange  juice  and  sugar  together  un- 
til they  form  a  syrup.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  to  a  cream.  Whip  the  cream.  Mix  the 
yolks  and  syrup  together  in  a  tin  basin,  place 
it  in  a  pan  of  ice-water,  strain  the  gelatine 
into  it,  and  stir  carefully  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  stir  in  lightly  and  quickly  the 
whipped  cream,  turn  into  an  ice-cream  mould 
and  freeze  2  hours.  Should  not  be  frozen  as 
hard  as  ice  cream.  Serve  with  montrose 
sauce  poured  around.  This  will  serve  10 
people. 

22. — Apricot  Fool. 

Soak  y2  a  lb.  of  evaporated  apricots  over 

night.     In    the    morning,     put    them   in   a 

porcelain-lined  kettle,  writh  sufficient  water  to 

cover.     Cover  the  kettle  and  stew  slowly  un- 

130 


September. 

til  tender ;  then  beat  until  smooth  and  en- 
tirely free  from  lumps.  Add  i  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a 
y2  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the  whole  until 
thoroughly  mixed ;  and  pour  into  a  glass 
dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until 
light;  add  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar,  mixing  thoroughly;  heap 
on  top  of  the  apricots  and  stand  away  until 
cold.— "  Table  Talk." 

23. — Omelets  A  La  Celestine. 

Make  a  sufficient  number  of  omelets  as 
follows :  Break  4  eggs  in  a  bowl,  beating 
them  only  enough  to  mix  the  whites  and 
yolks  thoroughly.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  a  very  little  butter.  Put 
a  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  the  omelet  pan,  as 
soon  as  hot  turn  in  the  eggs.  Shake  the  pan, 
so  the  eggs  do  not  set  and  brown  until  the 
raw  egg  is  all  cooked,  lifting  the  cooked  part 
every  few  seconds  to  allow  the  raw  egg  to  run 
upon  the  hot  pan.  As  soon  as  the  omelet  is 
set  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  strawberry 
jam  ;  fold  over  the  omelet ;  turn  onto  a  plat- 
ter ;  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  at 
once.— "Table  Talk." 
131 


September. 

24. — Sago  Pudding. 
Put  t/%  of  a  cup  of  sago  to  a  qt.  of  cold 
milk,  add  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  turn 
into  a  double  boiler;  let  it  remain  till 
the  sago  is  thick,  then  put  into  a  pudding- 
dish,  and  while  hot  add  y2  cup  of  butter  ; 
when  cool  add  4  eggs  well  beaten,  a  cup  of 
white  sugar,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a 
lemon.  Bake  until  brown.  It  is  improved 
by  adding  a  gill  of  rose-water,  or  half  a  glass 
of  wine. 

25. — Angelique  Punch. 

Chop  y2  lb.  of  Sultana  raisins  very  fine. 
Add  then  to  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon  and  1 
cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Pour  over  the  mix- 
ture 1  pt.  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Press  through  a  sieve,  add 
1  pt.  of  California  angelique  wine  and  freeze. 
When  frozen  beat  in  the  white  of  1  egg 
beaten  stiff  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar.  Pack  and  stand  away  to  ripen  for  1 
hour  before  serving. — "  Table  Talk." 

26. — Baked  Apple  Dumpling. 

Make  a  crust  as  for  soda  biscuit,  peel  and 
core   the   apples,  cut   the   dough   in  square 
132 


September. 

pieces,  and  cover  each  apple ;  put  them  in  a 
dripping-pan,  and  place  in  the  oven  for  five 
minutes.  Then  make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and 
water,  (i  cupful  of  sugar  to  a  pt.  of  water) 
and  pour  into  the  dripping-pan ;  baste  with 
the  syrup  while  cooking ;  when  done  eat 
with  sweet  cream. 

27. — Troy  Pudding. 

One  cup  each  of  chopped  suet,  stoned 
raisins,  molasses  and  milk ;  1  egg,  3  cups  of 
sifted  flour,  a  little  salt  and  a  pinch  of  soda ; 
boil  or  steam  3  hours.  Serve  with  a  sweet 
sauce. 

28.— Chocolate   Fritters. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  light ;  add  1  cup 
of  cold  water,  and  beat  into  8  tablespoon fuls 
of  flour.  If  very  thick  add  more  water. 
The  batter  should  pour  thickly  from  a  spoon. 
Add  1  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  chocolate,  sugar  to 
sweeten,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat 
well  ;  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff,  dry  froth,  and  beat  again.  Fry  in 
hot  lard  and  let  stand  at  least  half  an  hour 
before  serving. — "  Table  Talk." 
133 


September. 

29. — Dick's  Delight. 

Make  a  layer  cake  (as  for  jelly  cake). 
Slice  6  bananas  and  cover  each  layer  thickly 
with  them,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 
pour  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  over  each. 
Put  one  upon  the  other  and  pour  cream  or 
soft  custard  over  all. 

30. — Hedge  Hog. 

Two  pounds  of  blanched  almonds,  beat  them 
with  a  little  rose-water ;  beat  in  the  yolks  of 
12  eggs  and  the  whites  of  7,  y2  a  pt.  of 
sweetened  cream,  and  %  lb.  of  the  best  but- 
ter creamed  ;  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  until  it 
gets  quite  stiff,  then  make  it  in  the  form  of  a 
hedgehog  ;  stick  it  over  with  blanched  al- 
monds cut  in  thin  pieces.  It  can  be  set  on 
wine  jelly. 


134 


OCTOBER. 


i. — Bird's  Nest  Pudding. 

Pare  six  apples  and  take  out  the  cores 
with  apple  corer.  Fill  the  holes  with  sugar, 
after  placing  the  apples  in  an  earthen  pud- 
ding dish.  Make  a  batter  of  i  pt.  of  milk, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  3  eggs.  Pour 
this  over  the  apples  and  bake  until  the  fruit 
is  soft. 

2. — Grape  Pie. 

Take  a  sufficient  quantity  of  grapes  for  the 
number  of  pies  you  wish  to  make;  pulp 
them,  put  the  pulps  into  a  porcelain-lined 
kettle ;  bring  them  to  boiling  point ;  press 
them  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds ; 
add  the  skin  to  the  grape  pulp;  cook  10 
minutes ;  sweeten  to  taste.  It  is  well  to  allow 
a  ]/2  lb.  of  sugar  to  each  lb.  of  grapes.  Fill 
the  pies  with  this  mixture ;  put  on  an  upper 
crust  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  30 
minutes.  An  old-fashioned  way  of  making 
135 


October. 

grape  pie  is  to  simply  fill  the  under  crust 
with  whole  grapes;  then  add  a  y  cup  of 
sugar  and  a  y2  cup  of  molasses.  The  pie 
is  then  covered  and  baked  for  35  minutes. — 
"Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

3. — Whole-wheat  Pudding. 
Mix  in  a  bowl  two  cupfuls  of  whole-wheat 
flour,  y?  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
^  a  cupful  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  y  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  1  cupful  of  sweet 
milk;  mix  well  and  add  1  cupful  of  ripe 
peaches ;  pour  into  a  buttered  mould ; 
place  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  boil 
steadily  2^  hours.  Serve  with  cream,  or  if 
a  rich  sauce  is  desired,  a  wine  or  foamy  sauce 
will  be  very  nice. — From  "Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

4 — Hunter's  Pudding. 
One  pound  raisins,  1  lb.  currants,  1  lb. 
suet,  1  lb.  bread  crumbs,  y,  lb.  moist  sugar, 
8  eggs,  1  tablespoon ful  flour,  y  lb.  citron,  1 
glass  brandy,  10  drops  extract  of  almond, 
y  nutmeg,  mace  and  cloves.  Stone  and 
chop  the  raisins,  chop  the  suet  very  fine,  and 
136 


October. 

rub  the  bread  until  the  lumps  are  well  broken ; 
pound  the  spice  to  powder,  cut  the  citron 
into  thin  shreds ;  mix  all  the  ingredients  well 
together  adding  the  sugar ;  beat  the  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  as  they  are  beaten  drop  into 
them  the  almond ;  stir  these  into  the  dry  in- 
gredients, mix  well,  and  add  the  brandy ;  tie 
in  a  buttered  cloth  or  mould.  Steam  or  boil 
8  hours. 

5. — Alice  Pudding. 

One-half  pound  fresh  butter,  y2  pound 
powdered  sugar,  y2  lb.  flour,  %  pound  cur- 
rants, 4  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  extract  of 
lemon,  or  any  other  preferred.  Beat  the  bat- 
ter to  a  thick  cream,  strew  in  by  degrees  the 
sugar,  and  mix  both  well  together;  then 
dredge  the  flour  in  gradually ;  add  the  cur- 
rants, and  moisten  with  the  eggs  which  should 
be  well  beaten.  When  all  the  ingredients 
are  well  stirred  and  mixed,  butter  a  mould 
that  will  hold  the  mixture  exactly,  tie  down 
with  a  cloth,  put  the  pudding  in  boiling  water 
and  boil  five  hours.  When  turned  out, 
sprinkle  with  a  little  powdered  sugar,  and 
serve  with  sweet  sauce. 
137 


October. 

6. — Peach  Meringue. 

Canned  peaches.  Pour  over  them  an  icing 
of  the  beaten  whites  of  6  eggs,  and  6  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Brown  slightly  in  the 
oven.  Serve  with  custard  made  from  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs. 

7.— Indian  Corn  and  Tapioca  Pudding. 

One  quart  sweet  milk,  4  tablespoonfuls 
yellow  corn  meal,  1  cup  molasses,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  tapioca,  1  egg,  a  little  salt.  Scald 
milk  with  tapioca,  (reserving  1  cup  of  the 
milk  cold).  When  the  tapioca  is  swollen 
add  meal  and  molasses  stirred  carefully  to- 
gether to  avoid  lumps.  Set  away  to  cool 
before  adding  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  the 
salt.  Bake  in  slow  oven  2  hours,  and  then 
add  the  reserved  cup  of  cold  milk.  Do  not 
stir  in  the  cold  milk.  Bake  another  hour — 
in  all  three  hours — in  a  slow  oven. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

8. — Fruit  Croquettes. 

Soak   j4   baker's   5   cent  loaf  freed   from 

crust  in  a  pt.  of  milk  for  15  minutes,  then 

stir  it  over  the  fire  until  it  boils ;  take  from 

the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  then  cook 

138 


October* 

just  a  moment ;  add  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
2  tablespoon fuls  of  sugar,  a  grating  of  nut- 
meg, i  cupful  of  raisins,  currants  and  citron 
mixed  and  chopped  fine,  turn  this  mixture 
out  to  cool,  form  into  cone-shaped  croquettes, 
dip  in  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  smoking  hot  fat. — From  ''Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

9. — Orange  Roley-Poley. 

Make  a  light  paste  as  for  apple  dumpling, 
roll  in  an  oblong  sheet,  and  lay  sweet  orange 
(peeled,  sliced  and  seeded)  over  it.  Sprinkle 
with  white  sugar ;  scatter  a  teaspoonful  or  2 
of  the  grated  yellow  peel  over  it  all  and  roll 
up  closely,  folding  down  the  end  to  secure 
the  syrup.  Boil  in  a  pudding  cloth  1  hour 
and  a  half.  Eat  with  lemon  sauce. — From 
"Common  Sense  in  the  Household,"  by 
Marion  Harland,  Copyright  1880,  1892  by 
Charles  Scribner's  Sons. 

10. — Rum  Omelet. 

Beat  4  eggs  just  enough  to  mix  them,  add 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  warm  water  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  when 
melted  and  hot,  turn  in  the  eggs.  Shake 
139 


October. 

the  pan  and  as  soon  as  the  omelet  begins  to 
set,  lift  it  at  one  side  and  allow  the  softer 
part  to  run  under.  Continue  this  until  the 
omelet  is  cooked,  dust  it  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, fold  it  over  and  turn  it  out  on  a  heated 
dish.  Dust  it  with  granulated  sugar,  sprinkle 
it  with  rum,  pour  about  2  tablespoonfuls 
around  the  omelet,  set  fire  to  it  and  send  at 
once  to  the  table.— From  "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

11.— Cafe  Frappe. 
One  quart  of  freshly  made  black  coffee, 
sweetened  to  taste.  Turn  this  mixture  into 
a  freezer,  and  turn  the  crank  slowly  until  it 
is  frozen  like  snow ;  beat  the  white  of  1  egg 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  beat  again.  Stir  this  into 
the  frappe  with  a  spoon  and  it  is  ready  to 
use.— "Table  Talk." 

12. — Rice  Pudding. 
One  coffee  cup  of  rice,  two  quarts  of  milk, 
8  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg  (melted)  nut- 
meg and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Wash  and  pick 
over  the  rice,  and  soak  in  1  pt.  of  milk  2 
hours.  Then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  the 
140 


October. 

sugar,  salt,  butter  and  spice.     Bake  2  hours, 
and  eat  cold. — From  "  Common  Sense  in  the 
Household,"  by  Marion  Harland,  Copyright 
1880,  1892  by  Charles  Scribner's  Sons. 
13. — Fruit  Tapioca. 

Add  y2  a  cup  of  tapioca  to  1  pt.  of  water, 
and  let  it  cook  very  slowly,  until  the  tapioca 
is  soft  and  transparent.  Add  y^  cup  of 
sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Then  add 
one  cupful  currant  jelly  and  cook  stirring  all 
the  while,  until  the  tapioca  is  clear.  Take 
from  the  fire,  turn  into  a  mould  previously 
wet  with  cold  water,  and  put  away  to  cool. 
In  summer  ripe  berries  can  be  used  in  place 
of  the  jelly,  using  more  sugar  if  needed. — 
"Table  Talk." 

14.— Potato  Suet  Pudding. 

Take  a  lb.  of  mealy  potatoes  boiled  and 
mashed  smooth ;  add  4  ozs.  of  chopped  beef 
suet,  3  eggs,  a  little  milk,  sugar  to  taste,  and 
a  good  dessertspoonful  of  cinnamon  or  all- 
spice„  Put  it  into  a  dish,  cover  tight  and 
steam  for  an  hour.  Serve  with  a  sweet  sauce. 
15.— Jelly  Fritters. 

One  scant  cup  sponge  cake  crumbs,  very 
fine  and  dry,  1   cup  boiling  milk,  4  eggs,  2 
tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoonful 
111 


October* 

of  cornstarch,  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  currant  or  cranberry  jelly. 
Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  boiling  milk,  and  stir 
in  the  cornstarch.  Heat  all  together  to  a  boil 
stirring  all  the  time.  Beat  the  yolks  light,  and 
add  to  this  as  it  cools,  with  the  sugar.  Whip 
in  the  jelly,  a  little  at  a  time  and  put  in 
the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  at  the  last. 
Fry  immediately. — From  "  Common  Sense  in 
the  Household,"  by  Marion  Harland,  Coyy- 
right  1880,  1892  by  Charles  Scribner's  Sons. 

16. — Pumpkin  Custard. 

Pare  and  cut  a  Kershan  pumpkin  into  pieces 
about  1  inch  square ;  place  them  in  a  por- 
celain-lined sauce-pan  with  just  enough  water 
to  prevent  burning.  Stew  slowly  until  ten- 
der, about  y2  hour,  then  pour  through  a 
colander.  To  every  y2  pt-  of  pumpkin  add 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  1  ^ 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Mix  and  stand  aside  till 
cold  ;  then  put  1  pint  into  a  large  bowl,  add 
1  pt.  of  good  milk,  ]/2  teaspoonful  each  of 
ground  mace  and  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful 
ground  ginger,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  4  well 
beaten  eggs.  This  quantity  will  make  3 
large,  or  4  medium  sized  pies. 
142 


October. 

17. — Apple  Pan  Cake. 

Beat  separated  3  eggs.  Pare,  core  and 
quarter  2  tart  apples,  cut  them  and  reduce  to 
a  pulp,  add  the  yolks  to  them  and  beat 
again,  then  add  gradually,  while  beating, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a  l/2  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  now  with  a  spoon 
stir  in  carefully  the  whites  and  bake  in  small 
cakes  on  a  greased  griddle ;  roll  and  serve 
hot,  dusted  with  cinnamon  and  powdered 
sugar.— From  "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 


18. — Apple  Charlotte. 

Pare  and  steam  until  tender  6  large  tart 
apples,  then  press  them  through  a  colander 
and  add  to  them  while  hot  a  x/2  cup  of  sugar ; 
cover  a  ^  box  of  gelatine  with  a  cup  of  cold 
water  and  soak  it  y2  an  hour,  add  this  to  the 
apples  and  stir  until  dissolved ;  stand  in  a 
pan  of  cracked  ice  and  stir  continually  until 
the  mixture  begins  to  thicken;  then  add 
quickly  and  carefully  a  pint  of  cream, 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  turn  this  into  a 
pudding  mould  and  stand  away  until  ice 
cold.— "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 
143 


October. 

19. — Squash  Pie. 

One  qt.  strained  squash,  1  qt.  of  milk,  1 
pint  of  cream,  5  eggs,  10  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  mace;  y2  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.     This  makes  4  pies. 

20. — Italian  Ice  Cream. 
Two  pints  of  cream,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2 
lemons,  juice  and  grated  peel,  2  tablespoons 
of  brandy.  Sweeten  the  cream  and  beat  in 
the  lemons  gradually,  not  to  curdle  it ;  add 
the  brandy  and  freeze  quickly.  In  turning 
the  freezer  open  twice  during  the  operation, 
to  stir  and  beat  the  contents  smooth. — From 
''Common  Sense  in  the  Household,"  by 
Marion  Harland,  Copyright  1880,  1892  by 
Charles  Scribner's  Sons. 

21. — Eve's  Pudding. 
Half  a  lb.  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  lb.  of 
raisins,  a  lb.  of  chopped  apples,  4  eggs,  a  cup 
of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little 
cinnamon  and  cloves.  Boil  in  a  mould. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. — From  Receipts  Old 
and  New. 

22. — Prune  Jelly. 
Cover  a  j4  box  of  gelatine  with  a  j4  cup 
of  cold  water,  and  stand  aside  for  j4  an  hour. 
144 


October* 

Cover  i  qt.  of  prunes  with  a  pt.  of  cold 
water  and  cook  slowly  for  y2  an  hour.  Then 
add  the  gelatine  to  the  prunes,  with  a  half 
cup  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  boiling  water. 
With  the  Keystone  beater,  beat  slowly  and 
continually  until  the  prunes  are  reduced  to  a 
pulp.  Pour  in  a  mould  and  stand  away  to 
harden.  Serve  very  cold  with  sugar  and 
cream.— "  Table  Talk." 

23. — Polly's  Pudding. 

Put  a  layer  of  sponge-cake  crumbs  in  a 
dish;  then  a  layer  of  jam;  then  another 
layer  of  cake  crumbs ;  then  1  of  sweetened 
cocoanut,  and  another  layer  of  cake  crumbs. 
This  pudding  is  steamed  and  should  be 
eaten  with  a  custard  or  wine  sauce.  Custard 
Sauce. — One  pt.  boiling  milk,  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  milk,  1  tablespoonful  sugar 
rubbed  in  the  eggs.     Boil  in  a  double  boiler. 

24. — Apple  Cobble. 

Put  one  quart  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  a 

large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of 

salt,  and  2   heaping  ones  of  baking  powder ; 

mix  well  together,  then  add   sufficient  sweet 

145 


October. 

milk  to  make  soft  dough.  Roll  thin  and  line 
a  deep  pudding  dish ;  fill  with  apples  that 
have  been  previously  chopped  very  fine,  and 
sprinkle  with  i  cup  brown  sugar.  Wet  the 
edge  with  a  little  flour  and  water  mixed  ;  put 
on  an  upper  crust,  press  the  edges  together, 
make  an  opening  with  a  sharp  knife  in  the 
centre,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  30  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  sugar  and  cream. — "Table 
Talk." 

25. — Lemon  Washington  Pie. 
One  cupful  sugar  j  1  cupful  flour  ;  3  eggs ; 
y^  teaspoonful  soda ;  y2  teaspoonfui  cream 
of  tartar,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  the  sugar  and 
yolks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten ;  stir  in  the 
soda  and  salt ;  add  the  flour  and  cream  of 
tartar,  and  last  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Bake  in  3  shallow  tins.  Spread  be- 
tween the  cakes  when  done  the  following : 
Lemon  mixture ;  1  y&  cupfuls  of  cold  water,  1 
cupful  of  sugar,  1  dessertspoonful  of  butter. 
Boil  all  together  and  add  ij4  tablespoonfuls 
of  cornstarch  rubbed  smooth  in  cold  water. 
When  it  thickens  put  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
well  beaten  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon. — Good  Housekeeping. 
146 


October. 

26. — Ginger  Cream. 
Make  a  custard  with  y  cup  of  milk,  1  oz. 
sugar  and  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Stir  in  a  double 
boiler  till  thick,  let  it  cool,  add  y  cup  of 
syrup  from  preserved  ginger,  and  2  ounces  of 
ginger  cut  up ;  add  %  oz.  gelatine  melted  in 
as  little  water  as  possible.  Last  of  all  y  a  pt. 
of  cream  whipped  solid ;  mix  gently,  pour 
into  a  mould  and  set  on  ice. 

27. — Chocolate  Whips. 

Scrape  %  of  a  cake  of  chocolate,  and  dis- 
solve with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  in  y 
teacupful  of  boiling  water  ;  add  to  ^  of  a  pt. 
of  milk,  y2  cupful  of  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
smooth  cornstarch  ;  add  to  1  y2  pts.  of  boiling 
milk  with  yolks  of  5  eggs ;  stir  till  it  thickens ; 
add  y2  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Mould  in 
cups  ;  when  cold  fill  with  whipped  cream. — 

Good  Housekeeping. 

t 

28. — Anisette  Punch. 

Make  a  syrup  of  1  qt.  of  water  and  1  lb.  of 

sugar,  and  when  cooked  add  1  cup  of  lemon 

juice  and  y  of  a  cup  of  orange;  mix  well, 

cool    and    freeze.     When   frozen   hard   add 

gradually  y  of  a  cup  of  rum,  y  of  a  cup  of 

147 


October. 

brandy  and  }£  of  a  cup  of  aniseed.  Beat 
well,  pack  and  cover  the  freezer  and  let 
stand  4  or  5  hours  to  ripen.  Serve  sponge 
cake  with  it. — "  Table  Talk." 

29. — New  England  Indian  Pudding. 

Two  quarts  milk,  one  cup  meal,  1  cup 
molasses,  x/2  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon  or  ginger,  2  eggs. 
Heat  1  qt.  of  milk,  "  milk-warm,"  then  stir 
in  slowly  the  meal,  and  keep  stirring  gently 
until  it  thickens,  but  does  not  quite  boil. 
Remove  from  stove,  and  add  molasses,  sugar 
and  spice.  Then  beat  the  eggs  well  and  stir 
them  in.  Pour  into  the  pudding  dish,  re- 
move the  spoon,  and  turn  the  second  quart  of 
milk  in.  Send  immediately  to  the  oven 
without  mixing,  and  cook  slowly  4  hours. — 
From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

30. — Oranges  Filled  With  Jelly. 

Cut  a  small,  round  piece  of  the  skin  from 
the  stem  end,  with  the  finger  loosen  the  pulp 
from  the  skin,  and  with  the  finger,  between 
the  skin  and  pulp,  gradually  loosen  it  entirely. 
Draw  the  pulp  out  through  the  opening, 
without  breaking  the  skin.  Throw  the  skins 
148 


October. 

into  cold  water  until  needed.  Have  ready 
an  orange  or  wine  jelly,  drain  the  orange 
skins,  fill  them  with  the  jelly,  and  stand  aside 
to  cool.  When  cold,  cut  them  into  halves, 
and  then  into  quarters,  and  arrange  them  on 
a  pretty  dish  garnished  with  smilax. 

31. — Lemon  Cream. 

Six  eggs,  eighteen  tablespoon fu Is  sugar. 
Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together  with  the  juice 
and  grated  peel  of  three  lemons,  il/>,  pts.  of 
cold  water;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Put  the  first  ingredients  over  the  fire,  and 
scald  slowly  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then 
add  the  whites  ;  scald.     Serve  cold. 


149 


NOVEMBER. 


I. — Cocoanut  Pudding. 

Three  oz.  butter,  y2  lb.  grated  cocoanut,  i^ 
cups  stale  sponge  cake  crumbled  fine,  3  oz. 
sugar,  1  large  cup  milk,  6  eggs,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add 
beaten  yolks,  when  these  are  well  mixed  put 
in  the  cocoanut ;  stir  well  before  adding  the 
milk,  cake  crumbs  and  flavoring ;  lastly  add 
the  whites  of  3  eggs.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a 
pie-dish  which  should  not  be  quite  full,  and 
bake  y?,  hour.  At  the  end  of  this  time,  beat 
the  other  whites  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  with  3 
tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Pile  this  in  large  spoonfuls  on  the  pudding, 
and  close  the  oven  till  slightly  brown.  These 
quantities  make  a  large  pudding. 

2. — Banana  Ice  Cream. 

Scald  together  1  pt.  of  new  milk,  2  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  iy2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  and  pour 
over  1^  pints  of  cream.     When  cold  add    2 
150 


November* 

teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  and  freeze.  When  it 
begins  to  freeze,  add  2  sliced  bananas. — 
Good  Housekeeping. 

3. — Fig  Pudding. 
Chop  y2  a  lb.  of  figs  very  fine.  Mix  with 
2  tablespoons  of  butter ;  add  %  of  a  cup  of 
powdered  sugar,  2  eggs  beaten  light  without 
separating,  1  cup  of  milk  and  ^  of  a  cup  of 
cake  crumbs,  mix  well.  Turn  into  a  well 
greased  pudding  mould  and  boil  3  hours. — 
From* 'Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

4. — Mock  Lemon  Pie. 

Bake  in   two  crusts  one  cupful  chopped 
rhubarb,    1    egg,   1    cupful   sugar,    1    rolled 
cracker,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
5. — Vermont  Pudding. 

Cook  2/i  of  a  cup  of  rice  in  a  quart  of 
milk  until  it  is  soft.  Then  add  a  cupful  of 
cream,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small 
egg,  y2  cupful  of  milk,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  small  cupful  of  raisins,  and 
y2  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Bake  slowly 
about  2  hours.  This  can  be  made  with  milk 
instead  of  cream,  but  more  butter  must  be 
used.  The  cinnamon  can  be  omitted  if  not 
liked. 

151 


November. 

6. — Egg  Nog,  (Frozen). 
Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  until  creamy. 
Put  a  pt.  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler,  add  to 
it  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  teaspoon ful  of  vanilla 
sugar.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved and  the  milk  hot.  Now  pour  this 
scalding  hot  over  the  eggs.  When  this  mix- 
ture is  perfectly  cold,  turn  into  a  freezer  and 
freeze ;  when  frozen  stiff  remove  the  dasher 
and  stir  into  it  one  pint  of  thick  cream 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Repack  and  stand 
aside  until  ready  to  use.  Just  before  serving 
time,  add  to  it  four  or  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
brandy.  Remember  that  all  frozen  mixtures 
will  become  liquified  after  liquor  has  been 
added,  so  the  brandy  to  have  its  frothy  taste, 
and  to  have  the  punch  in  the  frozen  condi- 
tion, must  be  added  just  before  serving.  The 
whipped  cream  stirred  into  the  frozen  mix- 
ture makes  it  light  and  fluffy. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

7. — Lemon  Pudding. 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch ;    1  y2 
pts.  boiling  water;   y2  pt.  of  sugar;   1  table- 
spoonful   of  butter;  3    eggs;   1    large   or    2 
small  lemons.     Put  the  sugar  and  boiling  wa- 
152 


November. 

ter  in  a  sauce-pan  on  the  stove,  mix  the  corn- 
starch smooth  with  cold  water  and  add  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  for  the  top ;  have  the  other 
whites  and  the  3  yolks  well  beaten  with  the 
juice  of  the  lemons  and  the  rind  grated  with 
them.  Pour  the  cornstarch  mixture  on  them 
and  beat  till  well  blended.  Pour  into  a  pud- 
ding-dish and  bake  20  minutes.  Have  the 
whites  of  the  2  eggs  beaten  with  one  cupful 
of  sugar,  and  8*^  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice ; 
when  the  pudding  is  taken  from  the  oven 
spread  thin  on  top,  and  replace  in  oven  to 
brown  for  a  few  moments.  Serve  cold. — 
From  Good  Housekeeping. 

8. — Orange  Pie. 
Bake  in  open  shell,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  1 
cupful  of  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  juice  of  2 
oranges,  y2  the  peel  of  1  orange.  For  the 
meringue,  use  the  whites  of  the  3  eggs. — 
Good  Housekeeping. 

9.— Cupid's  Wells. 
Cut  rounds  of  puff  paste  of  3  or  4  differ- 
ent sizes,  use  the  largest  one  for  the  bottom 
and  cut  the  centres  from  the  others,  leaving 
the  rims  of  different  widths.     Put  them  on  the 
153 


November* 

whole  round  with  the  narrowest  at  the  top. 
Bake  like  patty  cases.  When  done  fill  with 
orange  marmalade,  cover  with  meringue  and 
put  them  in  the  oven  an  instant  to  brown. — 
"Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

io. — Baroness  Pudding. 
Three-quarter  lb.  of  suet,  ^  lb.  of  raisins, 
weighed  after  stoned,  ^  lb.  of  flour,  y2  pt. 
of  milk,  %  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Prepare  the 
suet  by  carefully  freeing  it  from  the  skin  and 
chop  it  finely ;  stone  the  raisins  and  cut  them 
in  halves,  and  mix  these  ingredients  with  salt 
and  flour;  moisten  the  whole  with  the  milk, 
add  2  teaspoonfuls  lemon  flavoring,  stir  the 
mixture  well,  and  tie  the  pudding  in  a  floured 
cloth  which  has  been  wrung  out  in  boiling 
water ;  put  the  pudding  into  a  sauce-pan  of 
boiling  water,  and  boil  4  hours.  Serve  with 
sweet  sauce. 

11. — Jam  Omelet. 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  an  iron 
spider.  When  hot  pour  in  5  eggs  beaten 
stiff  added  to  2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and 
keep  it  from  sticking  by  lifting  it  with  a  knife. 
Cook  2  or  3  minutes  and  fold  x/2  over  the 
other ;  but,  before  folding  the  omelet  in  half, 
154 


November. 

spread  lightly  with  jam  and  sprinkle  pow- 
dered sugar  over  it. — From  Good  House- 
keeping. 

12. — Fruit  Pudding. 
Stew  dried  apricots  or  peaches  until  tender, 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  While  hot  pour  over 
Boston  crackers  split  open,  making  alternate 
layers  of  fruit  and  crackers,  the  last  layer  be- 
ing a  thick  one  of  fruit ;  stand  away  to  cool 
and  serve  with  or  without  sauce.  Stew  the 
fruit  with  enough  water  to  make  plenty  of 
juice  that  it  may  soften  the  crackers. — "  Ta- 
ble Talk,"  Phila. 

13. — Raisin  Smash. 
Bake  in  layers  this  mixture,  2  cupfuls  of 
sugar,  3  eggs,  2  cupfuls  of  flour,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  2  cups  milk,  ^  cup 
butter.  Put  between  boiled  icing  with  1 
cupful  of  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  and 
y2  cupful  of  blanched  and  chopped  almonds. 
— From  Good  Housekeeping. 

14. — Compote  of  Chestnuts. 

Carefully  peel  off  the  outer  brown  skin  of 

the   large   French  chestnuts,   and   put  in  a 

sauce-pan  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover. 

Put  over  the  fire  and  let  come  to  scalding 

155 


November. 

point.  Take  from  the  water,  removing  the 
second  inner  skin,  being  careful  not  to  break 
the  chestnuts.  Bring  to  a  boil  i  cup  of  sugar 
and  y2  of  a  cup  of  water.  Put  the  chestnuts 
in  this,  and  let  them  simmer  20  minutes. 
Take  them  out  with  the  skimmer.  Let  the 
syrup  brown,  but  not  burn  nor  reduce  to  a 
caramel  so  much  that  it  entirely  loses  its 
sweetness.  Take  from  the  fire.  Add  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sherry  and  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice.  Pour  over  the  chestnuts,  and  serve  in 
cases.— From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

15. — English  Pudding. 
One  and  one  half  cups  of  molasses,  1  cup 
of  milk,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  chopped  suet,  2 
cups  chopped  raisins,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
spice  and  salt ;  make  as  stiff  as  cake.  Steam 
$%  hours.  Serve  with  wine  sauce  flavored 
with  extract  of  nutmeg. 

16. — Rose  Meringues. 

Stir  in  1  qt.  of  milk  (simmering),  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  with  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  and  then  2  tablespoonfuls  of  smooth 
cornstarch.  Boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken  ; 
add  vanilla  when  cool.  Mould  in  long,  nar- 
row glasses.  Fill  up  with  the  whites  of  2 
156 


November* 

eggs,  beaten  stiff,  with  ]/2  cupful  each  of 
powdered  sugar  and  red  jelly. — From  Good 
Housekeeping. 

17. — Citron  Pudding. 
Four  ounces  butter,  3  ozs.  powdered  loaf 
sugar,  1  egg,  candied  citron  peel,  pastry. 
Soften  the  butter  to  a  thin  cream,  beat  the  egg, 
add  the  sugar,  then  the  butter ;  mix  all  well  to- 
gether. Line  a  shallow  dish  with  nice  pastry, 
put  in  the  bottom  a  thick  layer  of  citron  peel 
sliced,  extract  of  lemon,  then  pour  the  mix- 
ture over  it,  and  bake  until  the  crust  is  suf- 
ficiently done.     To  be  served  cold. 

18.— Fruit  Trifle. 

Soak  y2  box  gelatine  3  hours  in  ^  pint  of 
water ;  add  to  this  1  pt.  of  boiling  water,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  and  1  teaspoonful  sugar. 
When  cool  pour  it  over  a  dish  of  sliced  and 
sweetened  oranges  and  bananas. — From 
Good  Housekeeping. 

19. — Bonne  Bouche. 

Three  eggs  with  their  weight  in  flour, 
powdered  sugar  and  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls 
lemon,  almond  or  vanilla.  Warm  the  butter 
and  beat  to  a  cream,  gradually  dredge  in  the 
flour  and  powdered  sugar,  and  continually 
157 


November* 

stir  and  beat  the  mixture  until  perfectly 
smooth.  Then  add  the  eggs,  which  should 
be  well  whisked,  and  the  flavoring ;  butter 
some  small  cups  or  tins,  rather  more  than  y2 
fill  them  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  about  ]/2 
hour.  Turn  them  out  on  a  dish  and  pour 
custard  or  wine  about  them.  The  paste  for 
this  pudding  requires  a  great  deal  of  beating. 

20. — Apricot  Sponge. 

Cover  a  y2  box  of  gelatine  with  a  y2  cup 
of  cold  water  and  soak  a  y2  hour.  Press  i  qt. 
can  of  apricots  through  a  sieve,  add  the  juice 
of  2  lemons.  Boil  i  cup  of  sugar  and  a  y2 
cup  of  water  together  for  3  minutes,  add  the 
gelatine,  strain  into  the  apricots  and  stir 
until  they  begin  to  thicken,  then  stir  in  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Turn  into  a 
fancy  pudding  mould,  and  stand  away  until 
ice  cold.  Serve  with  cream. — From  "  Table 
Talk,"  Phila. 

21. — Cream  Jelly. 

Soak  y2  box  of  gelatine,  and  add  1  cupful 
sugar  and  1  cupful  wine ;  cover  1  hour. 
Put  the  covered  bowl  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
until  the  contents  are  dissolved.  Strain  and 
cool  (covered) ;  add  1  pint  of  whipped 
158 


November. 

cream  beaten  in,  and  mould. — From  Good 
Housekeeping. 

22. — Queen's  Pudding. 
Soak  i  pt.  of  nice  bread  crumbs  in  i  qt.  of 
milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  extract  of  lemon,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg;  bake.  When  cold  spread  with 
jelly  of  any  kind ;  cover  with  the  whites  of 
the  4  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  one 
small  cup  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  extract 
of  lemon.     Brown  lightly  in  the  oven. 

23. — Orange  Pancake. 
To  one  pt.  of  warm  milk,  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter,  1  pt.  of  flour,  2  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
juice  of  1  orange.  Bake  on  griddle.  Butter 
and  sweeten. — From  Good  Housekeeping. 

24. — Ginger  Bread  Pudding. 

One-half  oz.  treacle,  y2  lb.  flour,  ^  lb. 
suet,  1  teaspoonful  ginger,  ^  pt.  milk,  1 
egg,  1  teaspoonful  carbonate  of  soda,  1  tea- 
spoonful extract  of  lemon.  Mix  the  dry  in- 
gredients, then  add  the  egg,  and  the  milk  in 
which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved,  and  boil 
in  a  mould  for  2^  hours. 
159 


November. 

25. — Arrowroot  Charlotte. 
Two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  3  tablespoonfuls 
arrowroot,  1  qt.  of  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla; 

3  or  4  stale  sponge  cakes.  Line  a  mould 
with  the  cakes,  cut  thin,  and  sprinkled  with 
sherry.  Mix  the  flour  and  arrowroot  with 
enough  cold  milk  to  make  it  smooth.  Put 
the  remainder  of  the  milk  into  a  sauce-pan, 
and  stir  in  the  mixture  just  before  it  boils ; 
boil  a  few  minutes  stirring  all  the  time,  then 
pour  it  boiling  into  the  mould.  Stand  it 
aside  until  quite  cold,  turn  it  out  of  the 
mould,  and  spread  it  with  jelly  or  jam. 

26. — Corn  Flour  Meringue. 

One  qt.  of  milk,  4  teaspoonfuls  corn  flour, 

4  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  pounded  white 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  jelly  or  jam,  3  tea- 
spoonfuls of  vanilla.  Heat  the  milk  to  boil- 
ing and  pour  it  on  the  corn  flour  which 
should  be  previously  mixed  with  a  little  cold 
milk;  boil  15  minutes  stirring  all  the  time. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  and  while  still  hot 
add  gradually  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten 
with  the  sugar,  and  flavored  with  the  vanilla. 
Pour  this  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and 
bake  about  15  minutes,  or  until  the  custard 

160 


November* 

begins  to  set.  Take  it  from  the  oven  and 
heap  upon  it  lightly  and  quickly  a  meringue, 
made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  whipped  to  a 
stiff  froth  with  a  jelly  or  jam  which  must  be 
added  gradually.  Return  to  the  oven  to 
brown  slightly,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 
Use  currant  jelly  if  the  meringue  is  flavored 
with  vanilla,  strawberry  with  lemon. 

27. — Thanksgiving  Pudding. 

One  pt.  flour,  y2  pint  milk,  4  eggs,  ^  lb. 
chopped  suet,  1  Hb.  raisins,  1  lb.  currants,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  molasses,  1  teaspoonful 
yeast  powder,  spices,  salt.  Boil  four  hours. 
Serve  with  transparent  sauce.  Transparent 
Sauce. — A  coffee  cupful  of  water,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  coffee  cupful  white 
sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  flavor  with  lemon 
or  vanilla.  Put  the  sugar,  water  and  butter 
into  a  double  boiler,  let  it  heat  10  minutes, 
stirring  well ;  let  it  cool,  and  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  into  the  cool  sauce. 

28.— White  Jelly. 

One  qt.  of  hot  milk  boiled  with  5  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rice  flour  ;    1  cupful  of  powdered 
sugar  rubbed  with  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
161 


November. 

ter,  ]/2  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  teaspoonful 
vanilla.  Beat  all  together  and  cool.  Then 
add  y2  pt.  of  whipped  cream.  Serve  with 
soft  custard. — From  Good  Housekeeping. 

29. — Fig  Pudding. 

Soak  1  pt.  of  dried  bread  crumbs  in  a  pt. 
of  milk  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  pinch 
of  soda.  Add  3  well-beaten  eggs,  y2  cupful 
of  finely  chopped  suet  and  5  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Mix  thoroughly  and  then  add  6  figs 
which  have  been  washed,  dried  and  chopped 
very  fine.  Boil  in  a  tin  pudding  boiler  for  3 
hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

30. — Apple  Batter  Pudding. 
Core  and  peel  eight  apples,  place  in  a 
pudding  dish,  fill  the  places  from  which  the 
cores  have  been  taken  with  brown  sugar, 
cover  and  bake.  Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs 
very  light,  add  2  teacupfuls  of  flour,  with  3 
even  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted 
with  it,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  the  whites  well  beaten;  pour  over  the 
apples  and  bake.     Serve  with  sauce. 


165 


DECEMBER. 


i. — Banana  Fritters. 

One  pint  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  3 
eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  y2 
saltspoonful  of  salt.  Slice  in  the  batter,  2 
bananas  and  drop  by  the  spoonful  into  a 
kettle  of  deep  very  hot  lard. — From  Good 
Housekeeping. 

2. — Chestnut  Pudding. 

Shell  1  qt.  of  chestnuts  and  remove  the 
brown  skin  by  plunging  them  in  boiling 
water  and  then  in  cold.  Boil  till  soft,  drain 
and  wash  smooth.  Add  to  1  qt.  of  milk,  2 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  sugar  and  smooth 
flour;  when  hot,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
Boil  till  thick,  and  then  bake  till  brown. 
No  sauce. — From  Good  Housekeeping. 

3. — Bavarian  Sponge. 

One-half  box  of  dissolved  gelatine  added 

to  1  pt.  of  warm  milk  and  2  tablespoonfuls 

sugar.     Allow  it  to  boil  up  once,  with  the 

stiff-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  (strained).    When 

163 


December. 

cold,  add  i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  i  pt. 
of  whipped  cream. — From  Good  Housekeep- 
ing. 

4. — Bondi  Pudding. 
Four  ozs.  each  of  suet,  flour,  currants, 
raisins  and  bread  crumbs;  2  tablespoonfuls 
treacle,  y  pint  milk ;  flavor  with  1  teaspoon- 
ful extract  of  lemon.  Mix  all  well  together 
and  boil  in  buttered  mould  4  hours.  May 
be  served  with  wine  or  brandy  sauce. 

5. — English  Apple  Pudding. 

Line  an  earthenware  dish  with  pastry; 
pack  in  as  many  apples  as  desired,  sweeten 
and  flavor  to  taste,  cover  with  a  pastry,  pinch 
the  edges  closely  together ;  bake  in  a  sauce- 
pan half  full  of  boiling  water. 

6. — Chocolate  Jelly. 

Stir  together  y2  box  of  gelatine  (dissolved), 
\y2  pts.  of  warm  milk,  y2  cake  of  melted 
chocolate,  and  1  cupful  of  sugar.  Strain  in 
a  mould.  Serve  with  custard  sauce. — From 
Good  Housekeeping. 

7. — Island  Pudding, 
One  quart  milk  boiled  in  a  double  boiler 
with  4  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cornstarch  and 
164 


December. 

sugar.  When  cold,  add  i  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  and  ]/2  cupful  of  grated  cocoanut. 
Mould  and  pour  over  it  a  custard  sauce  with 
i  tablespoonful  of  melted  chocolate  stirred  in 
while  hot.  Custard  Sauce. — i  pt.  boiling 
milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk,  1 
tablespoonful  cornstarch  rubbed  in  the  eggs. 
Boil  in  double  boiler  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
— From  Good  Housekeeping. 

8. — Normandy  Pudding. 
Line  a  dish  with  macaroons ;  pour  in  1  qt. 
of  milk,  boiled  with  4  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
cornstarch  and  sugar,  and  mould.  Dot  with 
currant  jelly,  and  cover  with  whipped  cream. 
— From  Good  Housekeeping. 

9.— Raspberry  Pudding. 
Boil  a  pt.  of  milk,  and  stir  into  it  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch  which  have  been  wet 
with  a  little  cold  milk.  Then  add  2  eggs 
beaten  with  ^  cupful  of  sugar.  Put  a  cup- 
ful of  raspberry  jam  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish 
and  pour  the  custard  over  it.  Serve  while 
warm  with  sugar  and  cream. — From  Good 
Housekeeping. 

165 


December. 

io Coffee  Jelly. 

One  pint  strong  coffee,  i  cup  sugar,  y2 
box  gelatine  soaked  in  a  cup  of  water,  boil 
up  once,  and  strain  into  a  mould.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

ii. — Orange  Float. 

One  quart  sugar ;  i  cup  water ;  juice  and 
pulp  of  2  lemons ;  5  sweet,  juicy  oranges ; 
four  tablespoon fuls  cornstarch.  Put  the 
water  on  to  boil.  Moisten  the  cornstarch 
with  a  little  cold  water,  then  stir  it  into  the 
boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly  for  ten  min- 
utes stirring  constantly.  Take  from  the  fire, 
add  the  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  pulp.  Cut 
the  oranges  into  small  pieces,  remove  the 
seeds,  pour  the  boiling  cornstarch  over 
them,  and  stand  away  to  cool.  Serve  cold 
with  sugar  and  cream.  This  will  serve  eight 
persons. 

12. — Spanish  Cream. 

Boil  y^  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  quart  of 
milk.  When  dissolved  add  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs  and  ^  a  lb.  of  sugar;  stir  carefully 
until  it  thickens ;  take  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Flavor  and 
pour  into  a  mould.  Serve  cold. 
166 


December* 

13. — Peach  Sponge. 
Cover  y2  a  box  of  gelatine  with  a  y?  cup 
of  cold  water,  and  soak  a  y2  hour.  Press  1 
qt.  can  of  peaches  through  a  sieve.  Boil  1 
cup  of  sugar  and  a  ]/2  cup  of  water  together 
for  3  minutes,  add  the  gelatine,  strain  into  the 
peaches  and  stir  until  they  begin  to  thicken, 
then  stir  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs. 
Turn  into  a  fancy  pudding  mould,  and  stand 
away  until  ice  cold.      Serve  with  cream. 

14. — Orange  Basket. 

Mark  out  with  a  knife  a  basket  and  handle 
on  the  skin  of  a  large  orange,  then  cut  it  out, 
loosen  the  pulp  and  remove  without  breaking 
the  skin.  Throw  the  basket  into  cold  water 
1  or  2  hours  to  stiffen.  Make  a  port  and 
lemon  jelly,  and  turn  into  square  mould  to 
harden.  When  hard  cut  into  blocks  and  fill 
the  dishes.  Stand  the  basket  on  a  pretty 
dish,  garnished  with  smilax  and  roses. 

15. — Lemon  Ice  Cream. 

Heat  one  qt.  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler ; 
when  it  boils  add  ^  lb.  of  sugar,  beaten  with 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs.     Cook  until  it  resembles 
167 


December* 

a  thin  cream;  stir  in  carefully  one  table- 
spoonful  extract  of  lemon,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  dissolved  gelatine.  The  freezer 
should  give  directions  for  freezing. — From 
Good  Housekeeping. 

16. — Steamed  Apple  Dumplings. 

One  pound  of  suet,  i  lb.  of  flour,  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  chop  the  suet  in  a  little 
of  the  flour,  as  fine  as  meal,  then  add  flour 
and  mix  thoroughly ;  add  cold  water  enough 
to  make  a  paste  ;  roll  as  thin  as  pastry  ;  pare 
1 2  large  apples,  quarter  and  core  them,  keep- 
ing each  apple  by  itself,  place  the  apples  to- 
gether again,  and  cover  each  apple  with  a 
square  of  the  paste ;  butter  slightly  the  bot- 
tom of  a  steamer,  lay  in  the  dumplings, 
which  should  be  cooked  in  an  hour.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce. 

17. — Charlotte  Russe  No.  2. 

Put  into  a  y2  pt.  of  milk  1  oz.  of  gelatine 
one  hour  before  you  are  ready  to  use  it.  Boil 
another  ]/2  pt.  of  milk,  add  to  it  the  yolks  of 
4  eggs  and  %  of  a  lb.  of  sugar  beaten  to- 
gether until  light,  add  to  this  the  gelatine  and 
milk  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil  like  soft  cus- 
168 


December* 

tard.  Set  this  away  to  cool.  Whip  to  a  stiff 
froth  i  qt.  of  rich  cream  and  when  the  cus- 
tard begins  to  stiffen  beat  the  cream  into  it. 
Flavor  the  cream  before  it  is  whipped  with 
wine  or  St.  Croix  rum,  and  tablespoonful  of 
vanilla.  Line  the  moulds  with  sponge  cake 
and  fill  with  the  mixture. 

18.— Orange  Souffle. 
Cover  y2  box  of  gelatine  with  ^  cup  of 
cold  water,  and  let  it  stand  for  a  y^  hour. 
Dissolve  over  hot  water.  Add  i  cupful  of 
water  to  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  and  stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  until  a 
syrup  is  formed,  then  add  1  pt.  of  orange 
juice  and  take  from  the  fire.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  4  eggs  very  light,  add  to  the  syrup  while 
hot,  then  add  the  gelatine.  Beat  and  stir  un- 
til it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  1  qt.  of 
whipped  cream.  Turn  into  freezer  and  freeze 
like  ice  cream  only  not  as  hard. — From  "  Ta- 
ble Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

19. — Hazelnut  Tarts. 

Chop  one  cup  of  hazelnuts  very  fine  and 

pound  to  a  paste.     Add  one-half  a  cup  of 

powdered  sugar,  a  pinch  of  cinnamon,  one 

169 


December. 

teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  %  of  a  cup  of 
sherry,  or  the  same  amount  of  orange  juice. 
Mix  well  with  the  nut  paste,  then  add  2  eggs 
beaten  very  light,  without  separating.  Fill 
the  tart  moulds  lined  with  crusts,  as  for  a 
fruit  tart,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty 
minutes.  When  cold  put  a  tablespoonful  of 
whipped  cream  on  each  tart  and  serve. — 
From  "Table   Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

20. — Fruit  Pudding,  (Batter). 

One  quart  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder  and  a  little  salt.  Add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter,  and  mix  to  the  con- 
sistency of  drop  biscuit.  Butter  a  mould  or 
deep  dish,  and  lay  in  it  a  layer  of  the  batter, 
then  a  layer  of  fruit,  alternating  them  until 
the  dish  is  nearly  full;  cover  it  tight  and 
steam  1  ^2  hours. 

21. — Cracker  Pudding. 

Pour  1  qt.  of  boiling  milk  over  6  soft 
crackers,  and  let  it  stand  till  the  crackers  are 
very  soft ;  then  add  4  beaten  eggs,  y2  pound 
of  raisins,  and  salt,  sugar  and  spice  to  taste. 
Steam  3  or  4  hours.  Use  brown  sugar. 
170 


December. 

22. — Scotch  Baked  Apples. 

Carefully  peel  and  core  four  apples;  fill 
the  centres  with  ^  of  a  cup  of  sugar, 
creamed  with  %  of  a  cup  of  butter,  add  a 
very  few  thin  slices  of  candied  lemon  peel 
to  each  apple.  Mix  a  very  little  sugar  and 
water  and  brush  over  the  apples ;  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  browned  in  hot  butter ; 
bake.  Serve  cold  with  custard. — From 
"Table  Talk,"  Phila. 

23. — Bavarais  Au  Apricots. 

Cover  half  box  of  gelatine  with  ]/2  cup  of 
cold  water.  Soak  x/2  hour.  Whip  1  pt.  of 
cream.  Press  1  qt.  can  of  apricots  through 
a  sieve  sufficiently  fine  to  remove  the  skins. 
Add  to  them  the  juice  of  1  orange.  Then 
turn  into  a  tin  or  granite  basin  and  stand  in 
a  pan  of  cracked  ice.  Add  to  the  gelatine  a 
y2  pt.  of  scalding  milk,  stir  till  the  gelatine 
is  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  add  to  the  apri- 
cots. Stir  over  the  ice  till  they  begin  to 
thicken,  and  then  carefully  but  thoroughly 
stir  in  the  whipped  cream.  Turn  into  a 
mould,  put  on  the  lid,  bind  the  seam  with  a 
strip  of  cheese  cloth,  moistened  in  melted  but- 
ter. This  prevents  the  salt  and  ice  pene- 
171 


December. 

trating.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice,  cover  and 
stand  aside  three  hours.  When  ready  to 
serve,  turn  out  of  the  mould. — "  Table  Talk," 
Philadelphia. 

24. — Chocolate  Mousse. 
Put  1  pt.  of  cream  in  a  double  boiler  to 
scald.  Melt  3  ozs.  of  chocolate  (not  sweet)  ; 
add  it  to  the  cream;  stir  until  perfectly 
smooth ;  add  7  ozs.  of  sugar,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vanilla ;  take  from  the  fire  ;  stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  turn  into  the 
freezer;  pack  with  salt  and  ice,  and  stand 
aside  for  %  of  an  hour.  Now  insert  No.  2 
Keystone  beater  and  turn  slowly  backward 
and  forward  until  the  mixture  is  frozen.  Put 
I  pint  of  very  cold  cream  into  the  glass  with 
No.  1  beater,  turn  backward  and  forward  un- 
til the  cream  is  nicely  whipped,  stir  this  into 
the  frozen  mousse,  put  on  the  lid,  pack  care- 
fully with  salt  and  ice  and  stand  aside  for  two 
hours.— From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

25. — English  Plum  Pudding. 

(Prize  awarded  by  the  Queen). — 1  It),  of 

raisins,  %   It),  of  flour,  1   lb.  suet  chopped 

fine,    1    lb.  of  currants,   ^    lb.    stale  bread 

172 


December. 

crumbs,  y  nutmeg  grated,  y  lb.  brown 
sugar,  5  eggs,  grated  rind  of  i  lemon,  y  pt. 
of  brandy,  y2  Vb.  of  minced  candied  orange 
peel.  Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  currants; 
stone  the  raisins,  mix  all  dry  ingredients  to- 
gether. Beat  the  eggs,  add  them  to  the 
brandy,  then  pour  over  the  dry  ingredients 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Pack  in  greased  small 
moulds  and  boil  six  hours  when  you  make  it 
and  when  wanted  for  use.  Serve  with  hard 
brandy  sauce.  This  will  make  6  pounds. — 
From  "  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

26. — Wine  Jelly. 
Soak  i  box  of  gelatine  in  1  pt.  of  cold  wa- 
ter for  j4  an  hour,  then  add  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  granulated  sugar,  and  1  pt.  of  boiling  wa- 
ter. Now  add  the  wine,  say  y  a  pt.  and 
another  y2  pt.  of  boiling  water  j  strain  through 
two  thicknesses  of  cheese  cloth ;  let  it  stand 
a  moment  and  strain  again,  this  should  be 
perfectly  clear  ;  turn  into  a  mould  which  has 
been  wet  with  cold  water  and  stand  away  to 
harden.— From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 

27. — A  Norwood  Pudding. 

Mix  together   2   ozs.   of  beef  suet,  thinly 
sliced,  a  y,  cup  of  candied  cherries  chopped 
173 


December. 


very,  very  fine,  six  grated  almonds  and  a  ^ 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cut  a  small  loaf  of 
baker's  bread  into  thin  slices,  spread  each 
slice  with  this  mixture,  and  arrange  them 
neatly  in  a  baking  dish.  Make  a  custard  by 
beating  together  4  eggs  until  light,  then  ad- 
ding a  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  a  qt.  of  milk. 
Pour  this  uncooked  over  the  bread  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  one  hour.  When  done  turn 
out  of  the  dish  and  serve  with  orange  sauce. 
Orange  Sauce. — Beat  together  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  a  ^  cup  of  powdered  sugar 
until  light,  then  add  2  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
beating  all  the  while,  add  the  grated  yellow 
rind  and  juice  of  the  orange ;  add  a  half  pint 
of  boiling  water,  and  stir  over  the  fire  a  half 
moment  until  it  thickens — no  longer. — From 
"  Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 


28. — Baked  Indian  Pudding. 

One  large  cup  of  meal  and  a  teacupful  of 
molasses  well  beaten  together;  then  add  to 
them  1  qt.  of  boiling  milk,  some  salt  and  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  butter. 
Let  it  remain  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
baked  until  it  thickens,  and  just  before  put- 
ting it  into  the  oven  pour  over  it  from  ^  to  a 
174 


December. 

pt.  of  milk,  but  do  not  stir  it  in  as  this  makes 
the  jelly.     Bake  3  or  4  hours. 

29. — Troy  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  salt  and  soda,  1  small  cup  of  molas- 
ses, 1^  cups  of  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar,  2^  cups  of  flour,  and  1  cup  chopped 
raisins.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg;  (1 
teaspoonful)  boil  3  hours.  Serve  with  a 
sweet,  brown  sauce.  Brown  Sauce. — ]/2  pt. 
of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  2 
tablespoonfuls  molasses.     Boil  ten  minutes. 

30. — Mould  of  Apple  Jelly. 
Peel  and  cut  up  1  ft.  finely  flavored  ap- 
ples, (weighed  after  they  are  peeled)  put 
them  in  a  pan  with  3  ounces  of  sugar,  ^ 
pint  of  water,  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  one  lemon.  When  cooked  to  a  pulp  pass 
through  a  strainer,  and  stir  in  1  ounce  of 
gelatine,  dissolved  in  a  gill  of  water.  Color 
Yz  the  apple  with  cochineal,  and  fill  a  mould 
with  alternate  rows  of  colored  and  uncolored 
apples ;  when  cold,  turn  out  and  serve  with 
half  a  pint  of  whipped  cream. 
175 


December. 

31. — Carrot  Pudding. 
Shred  and  chop  a  %  lb.  of  suet,  add  to  it 
a  %  of  flour,  a  ^  cup  of  sugar,  a  cup  of 
washed  and  dried  currants,  a  cup  of  raisins, 
a  ^  cup  of  shredded  citron,  a  1^  nutmeg 
grated,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon ;  and  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves.  Mix  all 
these  ingredients  together.  Scrape,  mash 
and  grate  a  carrot  weighing  ^  of  a  lb. 
Pare  and  grate  the  same  amount  of  potatoes. 
Mix  these  together  and  add  them  to  the  other 
ingredients ;  turn  into  a  well  greased  pudding 
dish  and  boil  3  hours.  Serve  with  fairy  but- 
ter.—From  "Table  Talk,"  Philadelphia. 


176 


INDEX. 


Alexandrines,  95. 
Alice  Pudding,  155. 
Almond  Souffle,  122. 
Ambrosia,  113. 
Angelique  Punch,  132. 
Anisette  Punch,  147. 
Apple    Batter    Pudding, 
162. 
«      Charlotte,  143. 
"      Cobble,  145. 
"      Fritters,  116. 
"      Manioca  Pudding, 

19. 
"      Marmalade     with 

Sauce,  116. 
"      Pan  Cake,  143. 
"      Pan  Pie,  128. 
"      Sago,  110. 
Apples  and  Rice,  28. 
Apple  Souffle,  105. 

"      Tapioca  Pudding, 
122. 
Apricot  Bavarian  Cream, 
13. 
"       Fool,  130. 
"       Sponge,    158, 
167. 
Arrowroot  Charlotte, 
160. 
"         Pudding,  55. 

Baked     Apple    Dump- 
ling, 132. 


Baked  Bananas,  44. 

"       Custard  No.  1,  3. 

"      Custard  No.  2, 20. 

"       Indian    Pudding, 
23,  174. 

"       Peach     Pudding, 
114. 
Bake  Well  Pudding,  98. 
Banana  Custard,  42. 
"       Fritters,  52,  163. 
"        Ice  Cream,  150. 
Pudding,  106. 
Baroness       «         154. 
Batter      Pudding      with 

Peaches,  113. 
Batter      Pudding     with 

Strawberries,  68. 
Bavarias     Au    Apricots, 

171. 
Bavarian  Sponge,  163. 
Beignet  Souffle,  73. 
Bell  Fritters,  31. 
Berry  Pudding,  115. 
Bird's  Nest  Pudding,  135. 
Biscuit  Glaces,  116. 
Boiled     Fruit    Pudding, 

42. 
Boiled  Rice  Pudding,  20. 
Bondi  Pudding,  164. 
Bonne  Bouche,  157. 
Bonny  Clabber,  86. 
Boston    Plum    Pudding, 

42. 


177 


Index* 


Boston  Pudding,  9. 
Brazilian  Pudding,  68. 
Bread  Meringue,  29. 
Brooklyn  Pudding,  21. 
Burnt  Cream,  34. 

Cabinet  Pudding,  38. 
Cafe  Frappe,  140. 
"     Parfait,  121. 
Calf  's-foot  Jelly,  125. 
Cantaloupe  Bavarian 

Cream,  102. 
Caramel  Bavarian 

Cream,  91. 
Caramel  Custards,  11. 
"        Ice  Cream,  117. 
"        Pudding  (new), 
65. 
Carolina  Cake,  127. 
Carrot  Pudding,  176. 
Celestine  Cream,  83. 
Cerealine     Blocks    with 
Jelly,  70. 
"  Fritters    with 

Apples,  78. 
Chantilly  Baskets,  30. 
Charlotte    De     Pommes 
Aux  Apricots, 
126. 
"      Russe,  50. 

"     No.  2, 168. 
Cherry    Bread   Pudding, 

76. 
Chess  Pie,  82. 
Chestnut  Pudding,  163. 
Chicago         "  21. 

Chocolate  Custard,  56. 
"         Fritters,  133. 
Jelly,  164. 


Chocolate  Mance,  62. 
"         Mousse,  172. 

Pie,  10. 
"         Pudding,  26. 
"       No.  2, 
43. 
"         Souffle,  24. 
Whips,  147. 
Citron  Pudding,  157. 
Claret  Jelly,  55. 

"      Punch,  47. 
Cocoanut  Bread  Pudding, 
49. 
"         Pudding,     58, 

95,  150. 
"        Sponge,  2. 
"        Tarts,  69. 
Coffee  Jelly,  166. 
Compote    of    Chestnuts, 

137. 
Corn    Flour     Meringue, 

160. 
Cornstarch  Pudding,  15. 
Cottage  "      127. 

Cracker  "      170. 

Cranberry  "      36. 

"  Shape,  20. 

Cream   Cornstarch    Pud- 
ding, 97. 
Cream    Curls    or    Lady 

Locks,  41. 
Cream  Jelly,  158. 
"       Pie,  40. 
"       Pudding,  17. 
Creme  Au  Caramel,  62. 
Crumb  Pudding,  124. 
Crusades,  94. 
Cupid's  Wells,  153. 
Currant  Fritters,  81. 


Index* 


Currant  Fudding,  44. 

"       Shortcake,  i)0. 
Curtis  Pudding,  40. 

Date  Pudding,  37. 
Delicate    "  4. 

Delmonico  Pudding,  71. 
Delmont  "         97. 

Dick's  Delight,  134. 
Dried  Apple  Pies,  29. 
Dried  Peach  Custard,  47. 
Duchess  Cake  with  Rasp- 
berry Filling,  46. 

Egg  Nog  (Frozen),  152. 
Egg    Puffs   with    Sauce, 

85. 
English  Apple  Pudding, 

164. 
English    Plum   Pudding, 

172. 
English  Pudding,  156. 
English    Rice    Pudding, 

39. 
Eve's  Pudding,  144. 

Fairy  Toast,  103. 
Farina     Pudding,     100, 

104. 
Fig  Custard,  19. 
"    Mould,  66. 
"    Pudding,  151,  162. 
"    Rice,  126. 
Flourendines,  56. 
French    Vanilla    Ice 

Cream,  129. 
Fried  Apple  Pies,  12. 
Fritters      with       Lemon 
Sauce,  9. 


Frosted  Apples,  48. 
Frozen  Mint,  110. 

"       Plum      Pudding, 

111. 
"      Tapioca  Custard, 

123. 
"      Watermelon,  111. 
Fruit  Balls,  53. 
"     Charlotte,  16. 
"     Croquettes,  138. 
«     Jelly,  77. 
"     Pudding  (To Roll), 

35. 
«     Pudding,  41,  155. 

«  (Batter),  170. 
"     Tapioca,  141. 
"     Trifle,  157. 

Gateau    De    Princess 

Louise,  17. 
Gelatine  Cream,  100. 
German  Souffle,  101. 

"        Toast,  55. 
Ginger  Bread    Pudding, 
159. 

"       Cream,  147. 

"       Pudding,  2. 

"       Sherbet,  72,  96. 
Gold  and  Silver  Pudding, 

108. 
Graham  Pudding,  33. 
Grape  Pie,  135. 

Half  Hour  Pudding, 
51. 

Hazelnut  Tarts,  169. 
Hedge  Hog,  134. 
Heston     Pudding     with 
Strawberries,  83. 


179 


Index 4 


Huevos  Chimbos,  61. 
Huckleberry    Shortcake, 

112. 
Hunter's  Pudding,  136. 

Iced  Cocoa,  79. 

«     Peaches,  1U8. 

«     Pudding,  123. 
Indian  Corn  and  Tapioca 

Pudding,  138. 
Irish  Moss  Blanc  Mange, 

71. 

Island  Pudding,  164. 
Italian  Cream,  75. 
"      Ice  Cream,  144. 

Jam  Omelet,  154. 

Jaune  Mange,  81. 
Jelly  Fritters,  141. 
Jerusalem  Pudding,  31. 

Kiss  Pudding,  106. 

Lalla  Rookh,  89. 
Lemon  Cream,  66,  149. 

«  "    Pudding,  5. 

«       Custard,  57. 

"       Foam,  95. 

«       Frappe,  35. 

«       Ice  Cream,  167. 

«       Pie  120. 

«       Pudding,  31,  61, 
152. 

"       Sponge,  27. 

"       Trifle,  25. 

«       Washington  Pie, 
146. 
Liffy  Pudding,  12. 
Little  Princess  Pudding, 

27. 
Macaroni  Pudding,  12. 


Maize  Pudding,  33. 
Maizura      "         53. 
Meringues,  74. 
Milk  Sherbet,  117. 
Mince  Pie,  1. 
Minnie's  Rice  Pudding, 

63. 
Minute  Pudding,  115. 
Mock  Cantaloupe,  29. 

"      Lemon  Pie,  151 

"      Mince  Pie,  24. 
Moonshine  Pie,  6. 
Moravian  Apple  Pie,  33. 
Mould    of    Apple   Jelly, 

175. 
Mrs.  B.'s  Pufhes,  72. 
Mysterious  Pudding,  63. 

Nantucket  Berry 

Pudding,  103. 
Neapolitan  Mousse,  92. 
Nellie's   Corn    Pudding, 

123. 
Nesselrode  Pudding,  54. 
<<  << 

(Francatelli),  98. 
New     England     Indian 

Pudding,  148. 
Norfolk  Cream,  4. 
Normandy  Pudding,  165. 
Norwood  "         173. 

Olney  Pudding,  66. 
Omelets  A  La  Celestine, 

131. 
Omelet  Souffle,  26. 
Orange  Basket,  167. 
"       Bavarian  Cream, 

52. 
«<      Custard,  13. 


180 


Index* 


Orange  Float,  166. 

"      Marmalade   Pud- 
ding, 64. 
«      Pancake,  159. 
«      Parfait,  3. 
«      Pie,  18,  153. 
«      Pudding,  32. 
«      Roley-Poley,  139. 
«      Filled  With  Jelly, 

148. 
«      Souffle,  169. 
«      Souffle  (Frozen), 

130. 
"      Sponge,  64. 

Pan  Cake,  109. 
Paradise  Pudding,  5. 
Peach  Blanc  Mange,  118. 
Peach  Meringue,  138. 
Peach  Sherbet,  113. 
Peach  Tapioca  Pudding, 

104. 
Pineapple  Jelly,  79. 
Pie,  58. 
Sherbet,  101. 
«         Souffle  Frozen, 

107. 
«         Sponge,  84. 
Plain     Batter    Pudding, 

50. 
Polish  Tartlets,  6. 
Polly's  Pudding,  145. 
Pommes  Buerries,  7. 
Potato  Pie,  3. 
Potato  Rolls,  35. 

«     Suet  Pudding,  141. 
Prime  Pudding,  28. 
Prince  Albert   Pudding, 
62. 


Prune  Jelly,  144. 

Prune  Pie,  73. 

Pudding     A'la    Zouave, 

114. 
Pumpkin  Custard,  142. 
Punch  A'la  Cardinal,  86. 

Queen     of    Puddings, 

127. 
Queen  Pudding,  14. 
Queen's  Pudding,  159. 
Quick  Puff  Pudding,  125. 

Raisin  Smash,  155. 
Raspberry  Pudding,  165. 
Rennet  Puffs,  36. 
Rice  Jelly,  93. 

«     Pudding,   44,    102, 
140. 

«     Souffle  with  Apples, 
22. 
Rose  Meringues,  156. 
Royal  Fritters,  71. 
Rum  Omelet,  139. 

Sago  Pudding,  37,  132. 
Saratoga     "        8. 
Scotch     Baked     Apples, 

171. 
Sidney  Pudding,  116. 
Snow  Balls  No.  1,  14. 
«         «       "     2,  33. 
Spanish  Cream,  57,  166. 

Puffs,  49. 
Sponge  Pudding,  7,  50. 
Squash  Pie,  144. 
Steamed    Apple    Dump- 
lings, 168. 
«        Bread  Pudding, 
129. 


181 


Index. 


Steamed  Chocolate  Pud- 
ding, 121. 
"         Wheat  Pud- 
ding, 82. 
Strawberry    Bavarian 
Cream,  80. 
«  Charlottes, 

75. 
"  Cream   Pud- 

ding, 87. 
"  Custard,  84. 

«■  Flum  m  e  r  y, 

85. 
"  Ice     Cream, 

88. 
"  Pie,  78. 

«  Sherbet,  99. 

"  Shor  t  c  a  k  e, 

76. 
«  Sponge,  89. 

"  Sponge 

Cake,  79. 
«  Souffle,  87. 

«  Tapioca,  91. 

"  Water     Ice, 

70. 
Stuffed    Spanish   Cream, 

97. 
Sultana  Roll,  59. 
Sweet-Potato      Pudding, 

128. 
Swiss  Tart,  67. 

Tapioca    and    Peach 
Jelly  ,115. 
«  Cream,  108. 

"  Cream     Pud- 

ding, 59. 
"  Ice,  105. 


Tapioca  Rouge,  43. 
Thanksgiving    Pudding, 

161. 
Trifle  Pudding,  117. 
Troy  «         133, 175. 

Turkish  Sherbet,  81. 
Tutti  Frutti,  119. 

Uncle  Joe's  Pudding, 
25. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream 
(Phila.),104. 

Vanilla  Parfait,  69. 

Variety  Jelly,  23. 

Velvet  Cream,  1. 

Venice  Pudding,  8. 

Vermont      "         151. 

Victoria  Fritters,  88. 

Vols  Au  Vent  of  Straw- 
berries, 86. 

Washington  Pie  with 
Molasses  Filling,  48. 

Watermelon  Cake,  40. 
"  with  Sherry, 

106. 

White  Grape  Pie,  4. 
"      Jelly,  161. 

Whole  Wheat  Pudding, 
136. 

Whortleberry  Dump- 
lings, 122. 

Whortleberry  Pie,  100. 

Wine  Jelly,  173. 

Will's  Sago  Pudding,  99. 

Wine  Custard,  63. 


Yankee  Puffs,  10. 


182 


f      &fJ    I9UV 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  009  938  685  A 


