s/ 


:::.  / 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/365orangerecipes00lane 


o^n 


^7 


365 


Orange  Recipes 


An   Orange  Recipe  for 
Every  Day  in  the  Year 


U 


vAe. 


PHILADELPHIA 

GEORGE  W.  JACOBS   &    CO. 

PUBLISHERS 


■>  ■)   3  J 


l^'^i.'^W 


Copyright,  1909,  by 

George  W.  Jacobs  &  Company 

Fublishedy  August,  igog 


THE  MEW  YOLK 
PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

893S79A 

ASIOR,  oENOX  AND 

TILDEN  FOUNDATIONS 

R  1937  L 


All  rights  reserved 
Printed  in  U.  S,  A. 


JAmJARY. 


I. — New  Year's  Pudding. 

Steep  Yq,  box  of  gelatine  in  ^  cupful  of 
water  until  soft.  Scald  i  cupful  of  milk,  add 
y^  cupful  of  sugar  and  the  gelatine  and  stir 
until  dissolved.  Strain,  add  i  cupful  of 
sweet  cream  and  set  aside  until  cold.  When 
it  begins  to  thicken  add  i  cupful  of  sherry 
and  the  juice  of  i  sweet  orange.  Pour  a  lit- 
tle into  a  mould  and  turn  the  mould  until 
there  is  a  thin  coating  of  the  cream  on  the 
bottom  and  sides;  fill  the  mould  lightly 
with  layers  of  crystallized  fruits;  cut  fine  bits 
of  lady-fingers  and  macaroons  which  have 
been  steeped  in  orange  juice.  Pour  in  the 
cream,  which  should  be  very  thick,  set  on  ice 
until  firm,  then  unmould  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream  flavored  with  grated  orange 
peel. 

2. — Scalloped  Turkey. 
Cut  the  dark  meat  from  i  cold  turkey  in 
1 


Januaiy 


cubes  and  marinate  for  one  hour  with  sour 
orange  juice.  Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
a  baking  dish  with  turkey  stuffing,  fill  with 
the  meat,  add  i  cupful  of  hot  gravy,  with  the 
juice,  and  i  teaspoonful  of  grated  orange 
rind ;  cover  with  stuffing,  adding  water  or 
stock  if  not  moist  enough,  and  bake  one-half 
hour. 


3. — Sour  Orange  Preserves. 
Grate  the  yellow  skin  from  sour  oranges  ; 
cut  them  in  two  and  remove  all  seeds ; 
weigh  the  oranges  and  put  them  in  a  brine 
made  with  1 2  ounces  of  salt  to  each  gallon 
of  water.  Steep  in  this  brine  for  twenty-four 
hours,  then  in  fresh  water  for  the  same  time, 
then  in  alum  water,  then  again  in  fresh 
water.  Now  boil  the  oranges  in  fresh  water 
until  a  straw  will  pierce  them  and  drain  on  a 
sieve.  Make  a  syrup,  using  i  pound  of  sugar 
to  I  pound  of  oranges,  as  first  weighed,  and 
I  pint  of  water  to  each  pound  of  sugar ;  boil 
the  syrup  until  it  is  thick,  put  in  the  oranges 
and  boil  until  they  are  clear.  Put  each 
orange  in  a  separate  glass  and  cover  when 
cold. 

2 


January 


4. — Orange  and  Apple  Pudding. 
Cream  6  ounces  of  butter  with  6  ounces  of 
sugar,  add  8  beaten  eggs,  the  juice  and  half 
the  grated  rind  of  i  orange  and  i  large  apple 
peeled  and  grated.  Bake  with  a  rim  and 
cross-bars  of  puff-paste. 


5. — Sheraton  Cake. 

Cream  i  cupful  of  sugar  and  ^2  cupful  of 
butter,  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  the  white 
of  I  and  beat  well ;  add  %  cupful  of  orange 
juice  and  2  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Bake  in  two 
layers  and  when  done  spread  with  i  cupful 
of  orange  marmalade  into  which  has  been 
beaten  the  whites  of  two  eggs.  If  preferred 
use  this  only  for  the  filling  and  ice  the  top. 


6. — Caramel  Salad. 

Boil  I  cupful  of  English  walnuts  for  ten 
minutes  in  salted  water,  adding  bits  of  bay- 
leaf  and  mace;  drain  and  cool  the  nuts  and 
mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  diced  orange 
pulp.  Add  French  dressing  and  serve  very 
cold  on  lettuce  leaves. 
3 


Januaty 

7.— Jellied  Prunes. 
Soak  I  pound  prunes  over  night  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler,  without  sugar,  until  ten- 
der. Drain  off  the  water  and  when  cool 
enough  to  handle  cut  each  prune  into  pieces, 
put  the  water  and  the  pits  over  the  fire  and 
boil  until  reduced  to  one  cupful.  Add  ^3 
cupful  of  sugar,  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved 
and  strain.  Return  the  syrup  to  the  fire 
and  add  ]4.  l^ox  of  gelatine  which  has  been 
soaked  in  i^  cupful  of  water.  When  this  is 
cool  add  I  cupful  of  strained  orange  juice  and 
the  cut  prunes,  pour  into  a  wet  mould  and 
serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 


8. — Orange  Fritters. 
Peel  2  oranges  and  separate  the  sections 
carefully  without  breaking  the  thin  inner 
skin  ;  dip  eacli  section  in  a  batter  made  by 
mixing  i  cupful  of  flour  in  which  i  level 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  has  been  sifted, 
with  I  cupful  of  milk,  2  beaten  eggs  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Fry  in  hot  lard  to  a  light 
brown  and  sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  frit- 
ters before  serving. 

4 


January 

9. — Orange  Parfait. 
Whip  I  quart  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  I  cupful  of  sugar  dissolved  in  i  cupful 
of  strained  orange  juice.  Fill  a  water-tight 
mould,  cover  wiih  a  sheet  of  writing-paper 
which  has  been  dipped  in  melted  paraffine, 
put  on  the  cover  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for 
two  hours. 

10. — Minced  Orange  Pie. 
Chop  I  unpeeled  orange  very  fine,  add  i 
cupful  of  sugar,  i  cupful  of  water,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  the  whites 
of  2  and  I  level  teaspoonful  of  tartaric  acid. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  an  open  shell. 
When  done  cover  with  a  meringue  and  put 
back  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. 

II. — Orange  Jam. 

Steep  6  oranges  in  water  for  four  days, 
changing  the  water  twice  daily.  At  the  end 
of  this  time  rub  each  orange  with  a  rough 
cloth  and  tie  each  one  up  in  a  separate  square 
of  cheese-cloth  and  boil  them  four  hours  in  a 
large  kettle  changing  the  water  twice.     Re- 


January 

move  from  the  water  and  when  cool  peel  off 
the  rinds  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  2 
pounds  of  sugar  to  i  of  orange  ;  add  the  pulp 
gradually,  and  when  all  is  well  beaten  together 
put  in  small  glasses. 

12. — Orange  Sponge. 
Steep  I  box  of  gelatine  for  one  hour  in 
I  cupful  of  cold  water,  then  dissolve  in  i 
cupful  of  boiling  water.  When  cool,  add  the 
juice  of  6  oranges  and  i  lemon  and  i  cupful 
of  sugar;  strain  and  let  cool.  WMien  it  be- 
gins to  stiffen,  add  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten 
with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  stir  until  it 
will  not  separate  then  pour  into  a  mould  to 
harden.     Serve  with  boiled  custard. 

13. — Orange  Gingerbread. 

Heat  i^  pounds  of  molasses  and  ^  pound 
of  butter  over  a  slow  fire ;  beat  well  and  add 
%  pound  of  brown  sugar,  2}^  pounds  of 
flour,  y,  pound  of  preserved  orange  peel,  i 
ounce  of  ground  ginger,  i  grated  nutmeg,  i^ 
cupful  of  orange  juice  and  i  level  teaspoonful 
of  soda.  Work  the  dough  well  and  leave  in  a 
cool  place  over  night.  Next  day  turn  out 
6 


January 

on  a  well-floured  board  and  roll  very  thin, 
cut  in  small  squares,  lay  these  one  inch 
apart  on  waxed  tins  and  brush  over  with  tlie 
beaten  yolk  of  i  egg  mixed  with  Yz  cupful 
of  milk.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  when 
done  brush  again  with  the  egg  and  milk. 

14. — Fosgate  Salad. 

Arrange  crisp  lettuce  leaves  on  plates, 
place  on  each  plate  the  diced  pulp  of  i 
orange,  and  on  top  put  thin  slices  of  onion 
which  were  steeped  for  two  minutes  in  boil- 
ing water  and  then  crisped  in  cold  water  and 
dried  with  a  napkin.  Over  this  spread  a 
thick  layer  of  mayonnaise  to  which  sweet 
cream  has  been  added. 

15. — Bondeau  Custard. 
Steep  the  grated  peel  of  i  orange  in  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  brandy  for  ten  minutes,  then 
strain  the  brandy  into  the  yolks  of  4  eggs 
beaten  with  y^  cupful  of  sugar.  Have  i  pint 
of  thin  cream  boiling  and  stir  into  it  the 
beaten  yolks ;  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
then  add  the  strained  juice  of  i  orange. 
Pour  into  cups  and  stand  in  boiling  water 
7 


Januaiy 


until  set.     Serve  from  the  cups,  or  unmould 
and  garnish  with  strips  of  candied  peel. 

1 6. — Orange  Wine  With  Raisins. 

Chop  fine  30  pounds  of  raisins,  add  tiie 
thin  parings  of  10  oranges  and  cover  with  5 
gallons  of  hot  water  ]  stir  well  and  let  it  stand 
for  five  days,  stirring  once  or  twice  a  day. 
The  fifth  day  strain  through  a  hair-sieve 
into  a  cask ;  add  a  syrup  made  with  the  juice 
of  20  oranges  and  i  pound  of  sugar,  also  the 
thin  parings  of  10  more  oranges.  Stir  well, 
and  the  next  day  fasten  up  the  cask.  Bottle 
in  two  months. 

17. — Marmalade  Without  Water. 

Boil  orange  peels  until  tender  in  three 
changes  of  water ;  drain  and  pound  in  a 
mortar,  adding  the  juice  and  pulp.  When 
smooth,  add  double  the  weight  of  the  pulp  in 
sugar ;  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour  and  then 
put  in  small  glasses. 

18. — Baked  Oranges  for  Colds. 
Bake  i  un peeled,  sour  orange  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  twenty  minutes.     When  done  open 
8 


V 


Januaty 


at  one  end  and  remove  the  pulp;  sweeten  it 
with  sugar  or  molasses  and  take  for  hoarse- 
ness or  cold  on  the  lungs. 

19.— Volusia  Cake. 

Beat  I  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream  wiih  2 
cupfuls  of  sugar;  add  7  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating  well  after  each  addition;  add  the 
juice  and  the  grated  peel  of  3^  an  orange  and 
3  cupfuls  of  flour  in  which  i  teaspoonful  of 
baking-powder  has  been  sifted.  Bake  in  a 
loaf  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty  minutes. 

20. — Tongue  Braised  in  Orange  Sauce. 

Boil  a  fresh  beef  tongue  one  and  a  half 
hours  and  remove  the  skin.  Line  the  bottom 
of  a  braising  pan  with  bacon,  add  i  sour 
orange  sliced  without  peeling  and  i  cupful 
each  of  sliced  turnips,  onions  and  carrots; 
put  in  the  tongue,  add  the  liquor  in  which  it 
was  first  boiled  and  water  enough  to  cover,  i 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  ^^  teaspoonful  of  whole 
black  peppers.  Cook  in  oven  or  by  very 
slow  heat  for  three  hours  longer ;  strain  the 
liquor,  thicken  with  corn-starch  and  add  to 
the  sauce  ^  cupful  of  fresh  orange  dice. 
9 


January 


21. — Orange-peel  Paste. 
Pare  the  yellow  rind  as  thinly  as  possible 
from  12  oranges,  boil  until  very  tender  in 
water  to  cover;  drain  thorougiily  and  pound 
in  a  nioruir,  adding  powdered  sugar  a  little 
at  a  lime  until  the  paste  will  not  take  more 
without  crumbling.  Roll  out  one-fourth 
inch  thick,  cut  out  small  round  or  fancy 
wafers  and  dry  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

22. — Lady  Pudding. 
To  }^  pound  of  lady-finger  crumbs  add  2 
ounces  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  2  oranges 
and  the  juice  of  3  ;  beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs 
and  the  white  of  i  and  add  to  the  first  mix- 
ture; when  well  mixed  add  3^  cupful  of  thin 
cream  and  bake  with  or  without  a  lining  of 
puff-paste. 

23. — Parsons  Ice  Cream. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  8  eggs,  add  12  ounces  of 
powdered  sugar,  3  cupfuls  of  rich,  sweet 
cream,  the  juice  of  6  oranges  and  the  grated 
peel  of  2.  Stir  in  a  double  boiler  until  it 
begins  to  thicken,  then  strain,  cool  and  freeze. 
10 


January 


24. — Winter  Salad. 
Dice  the  pulp  of  4  juicy,  sweet  oranges; 
blanch  and  dry  i  cupful  of  Englibh  walnut 
meats,  mix  with  the  oranges  and  let  stand 
one  hour.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  the 
following  :  Butter  Salau  DkEbSiNG  :  Beat 
I  egg  and  stir  it  into  2  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter which  has  been  softened  but  not  melted ; 
add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  orange  juice  and  a 
little  grated  rind,  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
i^  cupful  of  sweet  cream  and,  if  procurable, 
I  tablespoonful  of  young  orange  leaves  minced 
very  fine. 


25. — Nut  Loaf  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Grind  i  cupful  of  Englisli  walnuts  and  2 
cupfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  melt  yz  cupful  of 
butter  in  y^  cupful  of  hot  water,  pour  over  i 
beaten  egg  and  mix  with  the  nuts  and  crumbs. 
Form  into  a  loaf  and  bake  on  a  buttered  pan 
for  thirty  minutes,  basting  with  i  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  melted  in  ^  cupful  of  hot  water. 
Serve  hot  with  the  following  sauce :  Melt  i 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  i  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  nuts,  the 
diced  pulp  and  ^  the  grated  rind  of  i  orange 
11 


January 

and  I  cupful  of  water  or  stock.     Boil  until 
well  mixed  and  do  not  strain. 

26. — Orange  Tea. 
Slice  I  well-flavored,  thin-skinned  orange 
into  the  thinnest  possible  slices,   discarding 
all  seeds.     Cover  with    i    quart  of  hot   tea, 
sweeten  to  taste  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

27.— Orange  Torys. 
Grate  all  of  i  thin-skinned  orange,  reject- 
ing the  seeds;  seed  and  chop  i  cupful  of 
raisins,  add  y^  cupful  of  sugar,  i  beaten  egg 
and  I  cupful  of  cracker  crumbs.  Roll  puff- 
paste  very  thin,  spread  with  the  above  mix- 
ture, cover  with  paste,  cut  in  strips  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

28. — Maraschino. 
Dissolve  3  pounds  of  rock  candy  in  i  gal- 
lon of  gin  ;  add  the  rinds  of  12  oranges  and 
the  thin  parings  of  5  lemons  ;  steep  for  four 
days,  stirring  daily.  The  fifth  day  filter 
through  paper  and  bottle. 

29. — Rice  Fritters  With  Orange  Sauce. 
Beat  2  eggs  and  add  2  cupfuls  of  hot  boiled 
12 


January 

rice ;  add  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  enough  cold  milk  to 
make  a  drop  batter.  Fry  in  small  spoonfuls 
in  hot  fat ;  drain  and  serve  with  the  follow- 
uig  sauce.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  ^ 
cupful  of  sugar,  pour  over  it  ij^  cupfuls  of 
boiling  orange  juice  and  the  grated  peel  of  )^ 
orange;  stir  until  foamy  and  serve  at  once. 

30. — Hot  Orange  Tapioca. 

Heat  I  pint  of  strained  orange  juice,  stir 
in  i^  cupful  of  granulated  tapioca  and  j^ 
cupful  of  sugar ;  cook  until  clear,  then  add 
the  juice  of  ^  lemon  and  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs.     Serve  with  hot  custard. 

31. — Orange  Foam  Sauce. 
Cream  }{,  cupful  of  butter  with  %  cupful 
of  sugar,  add  i  egg  and  beat  well,  then  add 
the  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  ^  an  orange 
and  beat  again.  Put  this  in  the  dish  it  is  to 
be  served  from  and  just  before  using,  add  ^ 
cupful  of  boiling  water  and  stir  briskly.  Use 
with  Cottage  Pudding. 


FEBRUARY. 


I.— Gold  Bar  Cake. 

Bake  a  brick-shaped  sponge  cake,  when 
cold  remove  the  center  leaving  the  bottom 
and  sides  i  inch  thick.  Make  icing  by 
beating  the  white  of  i  egg  with  i  table- 
spoonful  of  orange  juice,  i  teaspoonful  of 
grated  orange  rind  and  confectioner's  sugar 
to  make  very  stiff.  Spread  this  on  the  out- 
side of  the  cake  and  allow  it  to  harden.  Just 
before  serving  fill  with  the  following  cream. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  the  whites  of 
3  with  y^  cupful  of  sugar ;  add  ^  cupful  of 
white  wine,  the  juice  of  i  lemon,  the  juice  of 
2  oranges  and  the  grated  rind,  i^^  cup- 
fuls  of  water  in  which  2  level  teaspoonfuls 
of  corn-starch  have  been  mixed.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  thick,  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs,  mix  thoroughly  and  allow  it 
to  become  very  cold. 

2.— Marmalade  Dumplings. 
Sift  I  quart  of  flour  with  3  teaspoonfuls  of 


February 


baking-powder  and  i  level  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  add  thick,  sweet  cream  to  roll  out. 
Roll  into  a  sheet  one-quarter  inch  thick,  cut 
into  diamond-shaped  pieces  and  in  the  center 
of  each  place  i  teaspoonful  of  orange  mar- 
malade; moisten  the  edges  with  cold  water, 
turn  two  opposite  points  together,  press  the 
edges  firmly  and  bake  forty-five  minutes. 


3-— Preserved  Orange  Peel. 
Peel  thin-skinned,  well-flavored  oranges 
and  cut  the  peel  into  straws;  boil  these  until 
tender,  changing  the  water  twice;  drain  and 
add  the  strained  juice  of  the  oranges  in  which 
has  been  dissolved  sugar  in  the  proportion  of 
I  cupful  of  sugar  to  i  pint  of  juice.  Bring 
to  a  boil  and  cook  twenty  minutes  longer. 
Put  in  small  glasses. 

4. — Orange  Snow  Pudding. 

Soak  y2  box  of  gelatine  in  ^  cupful  of 
cold  water  until  soft,  then  pour  over  it  i  pint 
of  boiling  water.  Add  i  cupful  of  sugar  and 
!}{.  cupfuls  of  Strained  orange  juice,  strain 
and  set  away  to  cool.  When  it  begins  to 
Stiffen,  add  the  whites  of  6  eggs  and  beat  all 
15 


February 

together   until   stiff   and   white.     Pour   into 
moulds  and  set  on  ice;  serve  with  custard. 

5.— Orange  Cordial. 
Steep  the  peel  of  8  oranges  in  i  gallon  of 
brandy  for  one  week;  then  boil  8  pounds  of 
sugar  with  2^^  quarts  of  water  for  twenty 
minutes,  cool  the  syrup  and  strain  the  brandy 
into  it,  mix  thoroughly  and  bottle.  Use  for 
flavoring  or  as  a  liqueur. 

6. — Wentworth  Salad. 

The  diced  pulp  of  6  oranges,  6  sour  apples, 
peeled  and  cut  in  dice,  y^  pound  blanched 
almonds  cut  fine,  2  slices  of  candied  pineap- 
ple cut  in  small  pieces.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  ;  garnish  with  candied  cherries  and 
add  mayonnaise  when  serving. 

7. — Hamburg  Steak  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Add  a  little  grated  orange  peel  to  Hamburg 
steak  when  forming  it  into  cakes  and  when 
done  serve  with  the  following  sauce:  Melt  i 
tablespoonfulof  butter,  add  i  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  I  cupful  of  water  or  stock,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  and  i  peeled  orange  cut  in 
16 


February 

very  thin  slices.  Boil  only  a  moment  after 
the  orange  is  added  and  serve  in  a  separate 
dish, 

8. — Orange  Butter. 

Cream  2  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  ]4  cupful 
of  butter ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch, 3  beaten  eggs,  the  juice  of  2  oranges 
and  the  grated  rind  of  i,  and  3  cupfuls  of 
water.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring 
constantly  until  thick  and  smooth.  Use  to 
fill  tarts  or  serve  in  custard  cups  with  lady- 
•  fingers. 

9. — California  Orange  Pudding. 

Cut  6  oranges  in  halves,  press  out  the  juice, 
remove  the  pulp  from  the  peels  and  lay  the 
latter  in  water  for  twenty-four  hours,  changing 
the  water  three  times.  After  this  boil  the 
peels  until  tender,  changing  the  water  three 
times.  To  the  fourth  water  add  i  pound  of 
sugar  and  the  orange  juice,  boil  until  the 
syrup  is  thick  and  when  the  peels  are  cold 
chop  them  very  fine,  add  i  cupful  of  macaroon 
crumbs,  }^  cupful  of  orange- flower  water,  i 
pint  of  sweet  cream  mixed  with  the  beaten 
17 


Febraaiy 

yolks  of  7  eggs  and  the  whites  of  2  ;  add 
sugar  to  taste  and  steam  in  an  open  pan  in 
the  oven  or  bake  between  crusts  of  puff-paste. 

10. — Orange  Peel  Buns. 

Cream  }i  cupful  of  butter  with  ijA  cupfuls 
of  sugar,  add  2  beaten  eggs,  i  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  3  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  i  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  and  ^  cupful 
of  candied  orange  peel  cut  into  bits.  Pour 
into  buttered  muffin  pans,  sift  a  little  sugar 
on  top  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  hot 
with  afternoon  tea. 

II.— Orange  Soup. 

Cook  I  tablespoonful  of  sago  in  i  cupful 
of  water  in  a  double  boiler  until  clear ;  add 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  i  cupful  of  raisins 
which  have  been  seeded  and  steamed  for  fif- 
teen minutes,  i  cupful  of  orange  juice  with  a 
little  grated  rind,  i  cupful  of  juice  from  cran- 
berries and  keep  warm  but  below  the  boiling 
point  for  one-quarter  hour.  Strain,  add  a 
few  bits  of  orange  pulp  and  heat  again  if  it  is 
to  be  served  warm.  Chill  on  ice  if  it  is  to 
be  served  cold. 

18 


February 

12. — Candied  Orange  Peel. 

Remove  the  peel  of  thin-skinned  oranges 
in  quarters  and  steep  over  night  in  salted 
water.  Wash  in  several  changes  of  fresh 
water,  then  boil  until  the  peel  is  tender, 
changing  the  boiling  water  if  it  tastes  sally. 
When  the  peel  is  tender  drain  it  and  cut  into 
shreds  if  desired;  or  leave  it  whole.  To 
each  pound  of  peel  use  i  pound  of  sugar  and 
I  pint  of  water ;  bring  the  syrup  to  a  boil  and 
skim ;  then  put  in  the  peel  and  simmer  until 
the  syrup  is  nearly  all  absorbed,  then  boil 
rapidly,  stirring  to  coat  the  peel  with  the 
sugar.     Dry  in  a  warm  oven  or  in  the  hot  sun. 

13. — Fish  Cakes  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Heat  2  cupfuls  of  cold  cooked  fish  in  i 
cupful  of  cream  sauce,  add  the  beaten  yolks 
of  2  eggs  and  remove  at  once  from  the  fire  ; 
mix  thoroughly  and  put  aside  to  cool.  When 
cold  form  into  cakes,  roll  in  beaten  egg  and 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  For  the 
sauce  melt  i  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  i 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  when  it  bubbles, 
add  the  juice  of  i  orange  with  water  to  make 
I  cupful,  season  with  salt  and  paprika. 
19 


February 

14. — Orange    Marmalade  Sweethearts. 

Cut  puff- paste  with  a  heart-shaped  cutter, 
place  two  hearts  together  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  When  done  split  and  place  on  half 
the  hearts  i  spoonful  of  orange  marmalade, 
cover  with  the  remaining  hearts  and  ice  the 
top  with  boiled  icing. 

15. — Louisville  Salad. 
Dice  the  pulp  of  i  orange  for  each  person 
to  be  served  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves ; 
add  to  each  portion  i  tablespoonful  of 
coarsely  chopped  pecans  and  dressing  made 
with  I  tablespoonful  of  oil  to  ^  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice  and  salt  to  taste. 

16. — Orange  Cake  With  Milk  Icing. 

Cream  ^  cupful  of  butter  with  i}^  cupfuls 
of  sugar,  add  ^  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  the 
beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  2  cupfuls  of  flour 
sifted  with  i  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Bake  in 
layers  and  put  together  with  the  following 
Orange  Milk  Icing  :  Boil  2  cupfuls  of  sugar 
with  I  cupful  of  milk  for  ten  minutes,  pour 
into  a  bowl  and  stir  until  cool  ;  have  ^2  an 
20 


February 

orange  grated,  pulp  and  peel  together,  and 
the  juice  of  i  orange;  add  this  to  the  sugar 
and  beat  until  cold. 

17. — Nut  Pudding  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Pour  2  cupfuls  of  boiling  milk  on  i  cupful 
of  soft  bread  crumbs ;  add  ^  cupful  of  sugar, 
I  cupful  of  chopped  nuts,  the  beaten  yolks 
of  2  eggs  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  i 
orange ;  when  well  mixed  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs,  and  bake  forty  minutes. 
Sauce  :  To  i  cupful  of  boiling  water  add  i 
dessertspoonful  of  corn-starch  wet  with  a 
little  milk  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Have  3^ 
cupful  of  butter  creamed  with  2^  cupfuls  of 
sugar;  pour  the  boiling  corn-starch  over  this 
and  beat  well ;  reheat  it,  add  the  juice  and 
the  grated  rind  of  j^  an  orange,  i  glassful  of 
white  wine,  and  serve. 


18. — Orange  Arrowroot  Jelly. 

Bring  to  a  boil  3  pints  of  orange  juice,  3 
pints  of  water,  i  pound  of  sugar  and  ^ 
ounce  of  stick  cinnamon  tied  in  cheese- 
cloth. Skim  and  remove  the  cinnamon ; 
then  add  to  the  boiling  syrup  i^  pounds  oi 


February 

arrowroot,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  fifteen 
minutes,  then  turn  into  small  moulds,  \\nien 
cold  and  firm  serve  with  whipped  cream  or 
with  custard  flavored  with  orange-flower 
water. 

19. — Orange  Loaves. 

Cut  round  holes  in  the  tops  of  oranges 
and  remove  all  the  pulp  and  as  much  of  the 
white  rind  as  possible  without  breaking  the 
skin  ;  boil  the  peels  in  water  until  tender, 
changing  the  water  until  it  is  not  bitter;  re- 
move the  peels  and  drain  until  dry.  Boil  i 
quart  of  water  with  i  pound  of  sugar,  skim- 
ming until  clear;  add  the  orange  peels  and 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  set  aside  for  a  day  or 
two,  then  drain  and  fill  with  the  following : 
Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  i  gill  or  more 
of  sweet  cream  and  2  cupfuls  of  lady-finger 
crumbs;  beat  well  together,  add  j^  pound 
of  butter,  melted,  and  4  tablepoonfuls  of 
Angelica  wine.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until 
done.  Serve  hot  with  wine  heated  and  mixed 
with  melted  butter. 

20. — Orange  Flummery. 

Dissolve  2  ounces  of  gelatine  in  i  pint  of 
22 


February 

water ;  add  the  juice  of  3  oranges  and  sweeten 
to  taste.  When  the  jelly  begins  to  harden 
add  I  pint  of  sweet  cream,  which  has  been 
whipped  very  stiff,  and  put  in  a  mould. 

21. — Orange  Compote. 

Boil  the  grated  rinds  of  8  oranges  for 
twenty  minutes  in  3  cupfuls  of  water  with 
I  pound  of  sugar,  skimming  carefully.  Di- 
vide the  oranges  into  sections,  removing  all 
while  skin  ;  sinuner  for  ten  minutes  in  the 
syrup,  lift  out  with  a  skimmer  and  arrange  on 
a  glass  dish.  Boil  the  syrup  until  very  thick 
and  when  cold  pour  it  over  the  orange  sec- 
tions. 

22. — Orange  Washington  Cake. 

Cream  j^  cupful  of  butter  with  2  cupfuls 
of  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  the  juice 
of  2  oranges  and  the  grated  rind  of  i,  3  cup- 
fuls of  flour,  in  which  i  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  baking-powder  has  been  sifted,  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Bake  quickly  in 
two  thick  layers  and  when  done  spread  them 
with  the  following  Filling  :  Dissolve  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn-starch  in  ^  cupful  of  cold 
23 


February 


water  and  stir  into  i)^  cupfuls  of  boiling 
water ;  add  I  cupful  of  sugar,  i  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  the  juice  of  3  oranges  and  the 
grated  rind  of  2,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  3 
eggs.  Cook  until  thick  and  put  on  the  cake 
while  warm. 


23. — Orange  Syrup. 
This  is  excellent  for  flavoring  pudding 
sauces,  custards  or  drinks.  Use  ripe,  sweet 
oranges  and  strain  the  juice  through  a  sieve. 
To  each  pint  of  juice  take  ly^  pounds  of 
sugar,  a  little  grated  orange  peel  and  the  juice 
of  I  lemon.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  strain 
again  if  not  quite  clear  after  skimming  and 
seal  in  bottles  or  fruit  cans. 

24. — Orange  Roly  Poly. 
Sift  together  i  pint  of  flour,  i  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  I  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder.  Rub  into  this 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  add  sweet  milk 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Turn  on  to  a  floured 
board,  roll  out  in  an  oblong  strip,  spread 
with  the  diced  pulp  of  4  oranges  and  the 
grated  rind  of  2  ;  sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar 
24 


February 

and  roll  up,  pinching  the  ends  so  the  juice 
will  not  run  out.  Steam  for  forty  minutes 
and  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

25. — Glazed  Orange  Wafers. 

Beat  j/^  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream  with 
I  cupful  of  sugar;  add  ^  cupful  of  milk,  2 
beaten  eggs,  the  grated  rind  of  i  orange  and 
i^  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  i  teaspoonful 
of  baking-powder.  Drop  small  spoonfuls  of 
the  batter  on  buttered  paper  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  When  cold  dip  in  the  following 
glaze  and  lay  on  waxed  paper.  Glaze  : 
Boil  I  cupful  of  sugar  with  the  juice  and  the 
grated  rind  of  i  orange  until  it  will  harden  in 
cold  water ;  use  while  kept  hot  in  a  double 
boiler. 

26. — Onions  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Boil  I  dozen  onions  in  three  changes  of 
water  until  tender  but  not  broken ;  drain 
them  and  add  ^  cupful  of  melted  butter 
mixed  with  ^  cupful  of  orange  juice  with  a 
little  grated  rind,  i  teaspoonful  of  minced 
parsley  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve 
very  hot. 

26 


February 


27. — Apple  Sherbet. 

Quarter  6  tart  apples  without  peeling  or 
coring  them;  cover  with  water  and  cook 
until  soft,  then  strain  through  a  jelly  bag. 
When  the  juice  is  cold,  add  the  juice  of  i 
lemon,  i  grape  fruit  and  6  oranges;  also  i 
cupful  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice.  Stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  strain  into  the 
freezer  and  freeze  until  thick.  Especially 
good  after  roast  goose  or  pork. 

28.— Smiley  Sorbet. 
Boil  I  i>int  of  sugar  and  i  cupful  of  water 
to  a  heavy  syrup  ;  cool  and  add  to  3  pints  of 
strained  orange  juice  undiluted  with  water. 
Place  in  freezer  can  and  surround  with  ice 
and  salt ;  let  stand  a  half  hour  then  scrape 
from  sides  of  can  ;  renew  ice  and  salt  and  let 
stand  one  hour.     Serve  in  glasses. 


MARCH. 


I.— Orange  Custard. 
Stir  the  juice  of  6  oranges  and  i  cupful  of 
sugar  over  a  slow  fire  until  dissolved,  skim- 
ming well.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  when 
nearly  cold  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs 
and  I  pint  of  milk  which  has  been  boiled. 
Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens  and  serve 
ill  glasses  with  i  spoonful  of  beaten  and 
sweetened  white  of  egg  on  each  one. 

2.— Orange  Royals. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  12  eggs  until  thick  ;  pour 
into  a  buttered  tin  and  steam  until  stiff.  Boil 
2  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  i  cupful  of  orange 
juice  and  1  teaspoonful  of  grated  rind  until 
very  thick  ;  cut  the  steamed  eggs  into  squares, 
simmer  for  ten  minutes  in  the  syrup,  add  y^ 
cupful  of  shredded,  blanched  almonds  and 
serve  cold. 

27 


March 

3. — Cabinet  Pudding. 
Cream  }^  pound  of  butter  with  lyi  pounds 
of  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  5  eggs,  ^ 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  ^  pound  of  flour  alter- 
nately with  the  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs,  the 
juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  }^  an  orange,  j^ 
pound  of  preserved  orange  peel  and  ^  pound 
of  seeded  raisins.  Sieam  in  a  buttered  mould 
for  three  hours.     Serve  hot  with  liquid  sauce. 

4. — Calf's  Liver  With  Oranges. 

Cut  I  pound  of  calf's  liver  in  slices  one-half 
inch  thick,  cover  with  boiling  water  for  a  min- 
ute, drain  and  cook  brown  in  bacon  fat.  Chop 
I  onion  and  brown  in  butter  adding  i  peeled 
and  chopped  orange  two  minutes  before  re- 
moving from  the  fire ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  place  i  spoonful  of  the  sauce  on 
each  slice  of  liver. 

5. — Orange  Potato  Pie. 

Mix  2  cupfuls  of  unseasoned,  mashed  white 
potatoes  with  %  cupful  of  sugar  creamed 
with  I  cupful  of  butter,  i  cupful  of  thick 
sweet  cream,  4  beaten  eggs,  the  juice  of  i 
large  orange  and  y^  the  grated  rind.  Bake 
^8 


March 

in  open  crusts;  cover  with  a  meringue  or 
serve  with  whipped  cream. 

6. — Rivera  Salad. 
To  I  pint  of  water,  add  the  juice  and  the 
grated  rind  of  ^2  a  sour  orange ;  bring  to  a 
boil  and  stir  in  i  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch 
mixed  with  a  httle  cold  water  and  boil  until 
thick;  add  ^  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  little 
green  coloring  paste,  remove  from  the  fire 
and  when  cold  add  an  equal  measure  of 
whipped  cream.  Have  i  cupful  of  blanched 
and  shredded  almonds  and  i  cupful  of  diced 
orange  pulp  ;  place  a  layer  of  the  dressing  in 
a  mould  that  can  be  covered  securely,  add 
the  nuts,  then  a  layer  of  dressing,  then  the 
orange  and  finish  with  a  layer  of  dressing. 
Bury  in  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours  and  serve 
on  lettuce  leaves  in  slices  or  cubes. 

7. — Orange  Jumbles. 

Cream  i  cupful  of  sugar  with  ^  cupful  of 
butter,  add  the  yolk  of  i  egg  and  beat  well ; 
add  I  tablespoonful  of  sweet  milk,  2  cujjfuls 
of  flour  sifted  with  i  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder,  the  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  ^ 
'29 


March 

a  small  orange  and  the  beaten  white  of  i  egg. 
Add  flour  if  necessary  to  niuke  stiff  enough 
to  roll  out ;  cut  in  rings  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

8. — Orange  Rice  Custard. 
Boil  ^  cujjful  of  rice  in  i  pint  of  water  until 
dry;  stir  in  y^  cupful  of  butter,  the  juice  and 
the  grated  rind  of  y^  an  orange  and  5  eggs 
which  have  been  beaten  and  mixed  with  i 
pint  of  milk.  Bake  until  the  custard  is  firm 
and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

9. — Baked  Orange  Souffle  Pudding. 

Beat  }^  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream  with  ^ 
cupful  of  powdered  sugar ;  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  3^  cupful  of  flour  sifted  with 
y>  level  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  and 
the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Bake  in  a  shal- 
low pan.  Mix  4  level  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn -starch  with  i  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  little 
salt;  add  i  cupful  of  orange  juice  and  the 
juice  of  I  lemon  ;  set  this  over  the  fire  until 
it  begins  to  boil,  then  cook  for  ten  niinutes; 
add  I  egg  beaten  light  and  when  the  egg  is 
cooked  pour  the  custard  over  the  baked  cake. 


March 

When  slightly  cool  cover  with  a  meringue  and 
brown  in  a  slow  oven. 

10. — Orange  Whips. 

Whip  to  a  stiff  froth  i  pint  of  cream  and  ^ 
cupful  of  powdered  sugar;  add  the  grated 
rind  of  ^  an  orange  and  enough  juice  to 
flavor.     Serve  very  cold  in  custard  glasses. 

II. — Orange  Croutons. 
Cut  rounds  of  puff-paste  the  size  of  a  dol- 
lar, bake  and  spread  with  Orange  Curd  : 
Melt  i^  cupful  of  butter  with  }(  cupful  of 
sugar;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  i 
orange  and  2  ounces  of  candied  peel  cut  very 
fine ;  heat,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs 
and  stir  until  thick.  After  spreading  cover 
with  the  remaining  rounds  and  ice  the  tops. 
Do  not  prepare  more  than  one  hour  before 
using. — Miss  Janet  M.  Hill. 

12.— Brain  Cutlets  With  Orange  Butter 

Sauce. 

Wash  I  jiair  of  brains,  steep  in  cold  water 

to  blanch   and  parboil   for   fifteen    minutes; 

drain,    cut   in   pieces,  dip  in   flour,  egg  and 


March 

bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.     Serve  with 
Orange  Butter  Sauce.     (See  December  i8.) 

13. — Orange  and  Bread  Omelette. 

Grate  i  tablespoon  ful  of  stale  bread  or 
cake  and  steep  in  orange  juice.  Beat  4  eggs, 
add  nutmeg,  sugar  to  taste  and  i  salt-spoon- 
ful of  grated  orange  rind  ;  have  the  omelette 
pan  ready  with  hot  butter,  add  the  crumbs 
to  the  eggs  and  pour  quickly  into  the  pan ; 
cook  until  set,  fold  and  garnish  with  shced 
oranges  or  with  marmalade. 

14. — Lamb  Chops  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Brown  the  chops  in  a  hot  oven ;  then 
cover  with  water  and  orange  juice  in  equal 
parts  and  simmer  until  done;  thicken  the 
gravy  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  serve  garnished  with  slices  of  orange  that 
have  been  sprinkled  with  minced  parsley. 
Be  sure  to  cook  in  a  granite  or  porcelain- 
lined  pan. 

15.— Green  Pease  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Slice  I  orange  without  peeling  but  reject 
the  ends  and  the  seeds ;   place  in  a  sauce- 
32 


March 

pan  with  green  pease,  add  water  to  barely 
cover  and  i  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  each 
cupful  of  pease,  boil  until  the  pease  are 
tender,  adding  water  if  necessary  to  prevent 
burning  but  no  more.  When  the  pease  are 
tender  remove  the  orange  slices,  thicken  with 
a  little  flour  and  serve  hot. 

i6. — Orange  and  Banana  Compote. 

Boil  I  cupful  of  orange  juice  with  the  juice 
of  y^  lemon  and  i  cupful  of  sugar  for  five 
minutes.  Cool  the  syrup  and  dip  in  it  one- 
inch  slices  of  banana ;  arrange  these  in  pyra- 
mid form,  pour  the  syrup  over  them  and 
sprinkle  liberally  with  chopped  pistachio  nuts 
and  candied  cherries. 

17. — Orange  Charlotte  With  Lady- 
Fingers. 

Pour  ^  cupful  of  boihng  water  over  the 
grated  rind  of  i  orange,  cover  and  steep  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Soak  J^  box  of  gelatine  in 
}^  cupful  of  cold  water;  add  i  cupful  of 
sugar  to  the  water  in  which  the  orange  rind 
is  steeping,  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point; 
pour  this  over  the  gelatine,  stir  well,  strain 
33 


March 


and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  add  the 
strained  juice  of  2  oranges.  When  it  begins 
to  thicken  stir  in  i  cupful  of  thick  cream 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  a  mould 
lined  with  lady-fingers  and  when  the  Char- 
lotte is  ahnost  stiff  pour  it  into  this  mould. 


18. — Orange  Corn-starch  Pie. 

Mix  3  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  i  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  ly^  cupfuls  of  sugar; 
add  I  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Add  the  juice  of  2  oranges  and 
the  grated  rind  of  i ;  cool  slightly  and  add 
the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  then  the  beaten 
whites.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  an 
open  shell. 


19. — Orange  and  Raisin  Jam. 
Slice  6  oranges  without  peeling  but  reject- 
ing the  end  slices  and  seeds ;  cover  with 
water  and  let  stand  all  night.  Boil  one  hour; 
add  an  equal  measure  of  seeded  raisins  and 
cook  one  hour  longer ;  add  4  cupfuls  of 
sugar;  cook  twenty  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Put  in  small  glasses. — Mrs.  Belding. 
34 


March 


20. — Orange  Biscuits. 

Cream  i^  pound  of  butter  with  y^  pound 
of  sugar;  add  the  grated  rind  of  3  oranges, 
the  beaten  yolks  of  8  eggs,  }^  pound  of  flour, 
I  cupful  of  finely  shredded  candied  orange 
peel  and  the  beaten  whites  of  8  eggs.  Fill 
buttered  moulds  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 


21.— Prepared  Orange  Juice. 

Put  ^  cupful  of  grated  orange  peel  in  a 
wide-mouthed  bottle;  add  ^  pint  of  brandy 
and  set  the  bottle  in  a  warm  place  for  three 
days,  shaking  it  up  frequently.  At  the  end 
of  this  time  squeeze  the  brandy  from  the  peel 
and  add  to  it  i  quart  of  orange  juice  which 
has  been  strained  through  flannel ;  bottle 
and  cork  tightly.     This  will  keep  for  years. 


22.— Juliet  Pudding. 
Butter  small,  thin  slices  of  bread,  spread 
with  orange  marmalade  and  lay  loosely  in  a 
pudding  dish  to  half  its  height.  Pour  over 
the  bread  i  quart  of  boiled  custard  and  cover 
with  a  meringue;  brown  the  meringue  and 
serve  cold. 

35 


March 

23. — Frozen  Maraschino  Punch. 

Boil  I  quart  of  water  and  i  pint  of  sugar 
twenty  minutes;  cool  and  add  i  pint  of 
strained  orange  juice  and  the  juice  of  2 
lemons.  Freeze  until  thick  then  add  a  me- 
ringue made  by  beating  the  white  of  i  egg 
and  stirring  into  it  y^  cupful  of  sugar  boiled 
to  a  thread  with  ^  cupful  of  water.  Flavor 
with  lyi  cupfuls  of  Maraschino  and  turn  the 
freezer  until  well  mixed ;  pack  in  ice  and  salt 
for  two  hours. 

24. — Orange  Snowballs. 

Line  buttered  cups  with  cold  boiled  rice; 
rill  the  centers  with  diced  orange  pulp, 
sweeten  to  taste,  cover  with  rice  and  steam 
for  one  hour.  Serve  hot  with  sauce,  or  cold 
with  whipped  cream. 

25. — Orange  and  Peanut  Sandwiches. 

Dilute  peanut  butter  with  orange  juice 
until  it  is  as  thick  as  mayonnaise;  add  a 
little  grated  orange  rind,  salt  to  taste  or  sugar 
if  preferred.  Use  to  spread  white  bread  or 
crackers. 


March 

26. — Carrots  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Cover  2  cupfuls  of  diced  carrots  with  boil- 
ing water,  after  five  minutes  drain  and  cook 
in  salted  water  until  done  \  drain  and  add  to 
the  following  sauce  :  Melt  3  tablespoon fuls 
of  butter  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  add 
i^  cupfuls  of  orange  juice,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Do 
not  boil  after  the  eggs  are  added. 


27. — Orange  Fool. 

Mix  the  juice  of  3  oranges,  3  beaten  eggs, 
I  pint  of  sweet  cream,  a  little  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon  and  sugar  to  taste.  Set  the  whole 
in  a  double  boiler  and  stir  until  thick ;  when 
cold  serve  in  custard  cups. 

28. — Goldenrod  Cake. 

Cream  i  pound  of  butter  with  ij^  pounds 
of  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  10  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  3  ;  beat  until  smooth  and  light  and 
add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  i  large 
orange,  i  pint  of  milk,  2  pounds  of  flour 
sifted  with  1]/^  ounces  of  baking-powder  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Bake  in  goldenrod  pans 
37 


March 

and  when  cold  ice  with  the  following  Icing  : 
Grate  the  rind  of  i  small  orange,  add  the 
yolk  of  I  Qgg  and  stir  in  confectioner's  sugar 
until  stiff;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling 
water,  the  juice  of  i  small  orange  and  ^ 
lemon  and  sugar  to  make  as  thick  as  fondant. 
Color  a  delicate  orange,  ice  the  tops  and  sides 
of  the  cakes  and  leave  them  in  a  warm  place 
to  dry. 


29.— Scalloped  Chicken. 
Cut  the  dark  meat  from  a  cold  chicken  into 
cubes  and  marinate  for  one  hour  with  sour 
orange  juice.  Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
a  baking  dish  with  filling,  adding  water  or 
stock  if  not  moist  enough,  and  bake  for  half 
an  hour. 

30. — Boiled  Orange  Pudding. 
Cream  i  cupful  of  butter  with  3  cupfuls  of 
sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs,  y^  cup- 
ful of  orange  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  ]/2 
an  orange.  Add  2  cupfuls  of  flour  and  i 
cupful  of  candied  orange  peel  cut  very  fine; 
boil  three  hours  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. 
38 


March 


31. — Pineapple  Mousse  With  Orange 
Jelly. 
Decorate  the  bottom  of  a  mould  with  can- 
died cherries,  cover  with  liquid  orange  jelly 
and  set  aside  to  become  firm.  Place  a  bowl 
of  ice  on  the  jelly  and  fill  up  the  sides  of  the 
mould  with  liquid  jelly ;  when  this  is  hard 
remove  the  bowl  and  in  the  space  which  is 
left  put  I  pint  of  cream  beaten  stiff  with  i 
cupful  of  sugar  and  flavored  with  i  cupful  of 
pineapple  juice  which  has  been  scalded  and 
cooled. 


APRIL. 


I.— Blue  Ribbon  Salad. 

Marinate  i  cupful  of  nut  meats  with  French 
dressing ;  just  before  serving  add  the  diced 
pulp  of  6  oranges  and  arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves.  Place  i  teaspoonful  of  mayonnaise 
on  each  plate. 

2. — Preserved  Orange  Flowers. 

Cut  ^  pound  of  orange  flower  petals  in 
shreds.  Boil  2  pounds  of  sugar  and  i  cup- 
ful of  water  to  a  soft  ball,  remove  from  the 
fire  and  when  it  begins  to  cool  put  in  the 
shredded  petals  and  stir  until  the  sugar  creams, 
then  drop  in  spoonfuls  on  waxed  paper. 


3.— Stewed  Kidneys  With  Oranges. 

Remove   the   skin   from   3    veal  kidneys, 

split  them  lengthwise  in  halves,  take  out  the 

white   nerve   and   cut   each   half  into  small 

slices.     Melt   3   ounces  of  butter,  brown  i 

40 


April 


small  chopped  onion,  then  add  the  sliced  kid- 
neys and  stir  until  they  are  brown ;  sprinkle 
with  flour,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  well. 
Thicken  i  cupful  of  stock  and  i  cupful  of 
orange  juice  with  roux,  add  i  level  teaspoon - 
ful  of  grated  orange  peel  and  put  with  tlie 
kidneys ;  cook  together  for  two  minutes,  add 
a  little  chopped  parsley  and  serve  on  toast. 


4. — Orange  Cream  Cake  Filling. 
Mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cold  milk;  add  this  to  y^  pint 
of  milk  that  has  just  reached  the  boiling  point 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  thick  and  smooth; 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  ^  cupful 
of  sugar;  take  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
grated  rind  and  the  juice  of  y^  an  orange. 
Cool  and  put  between  layers  of  cake. 


5. — Orange  Cracker  Pudding. 

Pour  2  cupfuls  of  hot  milk  over  i  cupful 
of  rolled  cracker  crumbs;  cream  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  with  i  cupful  of  sugar,  add 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  i  orange,  the 
beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  the  whites  of  6 
eggs  beaten  with  a  pinch  of  salt ;  mix  with 
41 


April 


the  milk  and  crackers  and  turn  into  a  pud- 
ding dish  which  has  a  layer  of  orange  mar- 
malade on  the  bottom.  Bake  twenty  minutes 
and  serve  cold  with  Cold  Orange  Cream 
Sauce. 

6. — Cold  Orange  Cream  Sauce. 

Steep  the  grated  rind  of  i  orange  for  one 
hour  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  ;  add 
the  juice  of  i  orange  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  and  strain.  Boil  the  juice  for  two 
minutes;  when  cold  stir  in  i  cupful  of  sweet 
cream  and  i  tablespoonful  of  rum;  serve  cold 
with  cold  puddings. 

7. — Kentucky  Orange  Pie. 
Boil  the  thinly  cut  rinds  of  3  oranges  until 
tender,  then  pound  them  into  a  mortar  with 
13^  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Blanch  >^  pound  of 
almonds  and  pound  very  fine,  adding  rose- 
water  to  prevent  separating.  Beat  10  whole 
eggs  and  the  yolks  of  6  more  until  very  light, 
add  the  whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  stir 
all  into  I  pound  of  creamed  butter ;  add  the 
almonds  and  orange  peel  and  bake  in  open 
shells  of  puff-paste. 

42 


April 


8. — California  Orange  Ice. 

Boil  i^  pounds  of  sugar  in  3  pints  of 
water  for  a  half  hour;  when  cold  add  the 
juice  of  18  oranges  and  2  lemons,  strain  and 
freeze. 

9. — Orange  Brandy  Shrub. 

Pare  very  thin  3  dozen  oranges  and  6 
lemons;  strain  the  juice  and  to  each  quart 
add  ij^  pounds  of  sugar  and  i  gallon  of 
brandy.  Put  in  a  cask  with  the  orange 
parings  and  bottle  when  clear. 


10. — Rice  and  Marmalade  Cream. 

Boil  I  cupful  of  rice  slowly  for  a  half  hour 
in  I  quart  of  salted  water  and  milk,  stir- 
ring frequently  ;  put  aside  until  very  cold. 
Sweeten  i  pint  of  cream,  flavor  with  vanilla, 
whip  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  gradually  to  the 
cold  rice.  Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a 
mould  with  orange  marmalade,  fill  the  center 
with  the  rice  mixture,  cover  carefully  and 
pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream  which  has  orange  mar- 
malade folded  into  it. 

43 


April 


II. — Tangerine  Jelly. 
To  the  strained  juice  of  3  oranges  and  2 
lemons,  add  enough  tangerine  juice  to  have 
I  pint  altogether;  add  i  pint  of  water  and 
i^  pound  of  sugar  and  boil  until  it  nearly 
candies.  Have  y^  box  of  gelatine  dissolved 
in  3  cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  steep  in  this 
the  grated  rind  of  2  oranges,  2  tangerines 
and  2  lemons;  add  the  orange  syrup  and 
strain  into  moulds  to  cool. 


12. — Waikiki  Shortcake. 

Rub  4  bananas  through  a  sieve,  add  the 
pulp  and  grated  rind  of  i  orange  and  i  cup- 
ful of  powdered  sugar ;  mix  well  and  stir  in 
^  cupful  of  thick  cream  beaten  stiff.  Spread 
between  two  layers  of  sponge  cake  and  serve 
with  sweetened  orange  juice. 


13. — Orange  Pickles. 

Make  deep  gashes  in  24  small,  sour  oranges, 
rub  them  with  table-salt  and  let  stand  three 
days.  Boil  enough  white-wine  vinegar  to 
cover  the  oranges  with  i  teaspoonful  of  mace 
blades,  pour  over  the  oranges  and  add  y^ 
44 


April 

cupful  of  coriander  seeds.  For  three  suc- 
cessive days  pour  off  the  vinegar,  bring  to  a 
boil  and  pour  over  the  oranges  again  ;  then 
seal  and  let  stand  for  three  months. 


14. — Peanut  Timbales  With  Orange 
Sauce. 

Grate  the  rind  of  ]^  an  orange  and  steep 
in  ^  cupful  of  orange  juice;  chop  or  grind 
I  cupful  of  shelled,  roasted  peanuts,  add  j^ 
cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  2  beaten  eggs,  y^ 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  i]4,  cupfuls  of  thin  cream 
and  the  orange  juice  squeezed  through  cheese- 
cloth. Turn  into  buttered  timbale  moulds 
and  serve  with  Orange  Sauce:  Melt  i 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  i  tablespoonful 
of  flour  and  ^  cupful  of  milk ;  stir  until 
smooth,  then  add  ^  cupful  of  strained  orange 
juice,  I  level  teaspoonful  of  grated  orange 
rind  and  salt  or  sugar  to  taste. 

15. — Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  until  thick  and 

light ;  add  gradually  i   cupful  of  powdered 

sugar  and  y^  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  continue 

45 


April 


beating  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  the 
strained  juice  of  2  sour  oranges  and  pour 
over  the  salad. 

16. — Ormond  Cake. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  with  2  cupfuls  of 
sugar;  add  y^  cupful  of  water,  the  juice  of  2 
oranges,  the  grated  rind  of  i  orange,  2  cup- 
fuls of  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder,  and  the  beaten  whites  of  4 
eggs.  Bake  in  layers  and  spread  with  the 
following  filling :  Melt  }^  cupful  of  butter 
with  I  cupful  of  sugar;  add  the  juice  of  2 
oranges  and  the  grated  rind  of  i  orange,  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs  and  the  beaten  Vv^hite  of  i  ; 
cook  to  a  thick  cream.  Cover  the  top  and 
sides  of  the  cake  with  icing  made  with  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  with  powdered  sugar 
until  thick,  and  flavor  with  orange  juice  and 
a  little  grated  rind. 

17. — Republic  Cream. 

Dissolve  I  pound  of  sugar  in  i  cupful  of 

water  and  the  juice  of  4  oranges;  beat  the 

strained  whites  of  7  eggs  and  the  yolk  of  i 

egg  to  a  slifl"  froth ;   add   to  the  syrup  and 


April 


cook  over  hot  water  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly.    Serve  cold  in  custard  cups. 

i8. — Figueroa  Tarts. 
Steep  2  cupfuls  of  seeded  and  chopped 
raisins  and  }i  pound  of  chopped  candied 
orange  peel  all  niglit  in  i  cupful  of  orange 
juice.  Add  i  cupful"  of  sugar,  cook  ten 
minutes  and  put  in  patty  tins  which  are 
lined  with  puff-paste;  cover  with  puff-paste 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


19. — Easter  Eggs. 
Cut  orange  peel  in  long  strips ;  boil  these 
until  tender  in  four  changes  of  water,  then 
drain  and  boil  in  syrup,  stirring  until  they 
candy.  When  cool  enough  to  handle  weave 
the  straws  into  a  nest;  in  this  nest  place 
egg-shaped  forms  of  blanc-mange  and  serve 
with  boiled  custard. 


20. — Orange  Ice  With  Meringue. 

Grate   the  rind  of  4  oranges  and  steep  it 

ten    minutes  in   2]^  cupfiils  of  cold  water; 

strain,  add    i  pound  of  sugar  and  i  pint  of 

orange  juice,  pour  into  a  freezer  and  when 

47 


April 

half  frozen  add  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten 
stiff;  give  the  freezer  a  few  turns  to  mix  and 
pack  for  one  hour. 

21.— Lentil  Croquettes  With  Orange 
Sauce. 
Soak  over  night  i  cupful  of  lentils  and  ^ 
cupful  of  red  beans.  Drain,  add  i  pint  of 
water,  }^  an  onion,  i  stalk  of  celery,  i  car- 
rot and  2  sprays  of  parsley.  Cook  three 
hours,  remove  seasoning  and  put  through  a 
meat  chopper.  Add  i  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs,  1  beaten  tgg,  the  juice  of  i  sour 
orange  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cream 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  add  23  cupful  of  cream,  bring 
to  a  boil  and  add  to  tlie  lentils.  Cool,  shape, 
crumb,  egg  and  fry.  Sauce  :  Melt  }^  cup- 
ful of  butter,  add  i  cupful  of  milk  or  stock 
and  boil  up  well.  Dilute  with  orange  juice, 
about  y^  cupful,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. 

22. — Montecito  Oranges. 
Fill  orange  peels  which  have  been  preserved 
whole  with  the  following :   Roll  i  pound  of 
stale  sponge  cake,  add    i    cupful  of  seeded 

48 


April 


raisins,  4  ounces  of  softened  butter,  the  beaten 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  orange-flower  water  to 
moisten,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  very 
slow  oven  until  firm  and  serve  hot  wiih 
sweetened  orange  juice  and  melted  butter,  or 
cold  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  orange- 
flower  water. 


23. — Hot  Orange  Souffle. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  i  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar,  place  in  a  double  boiler  with  the 
juice  and  pulp  of  2  oranges  and  i  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter ;  stir  until  smooth  and  thick,  add 
the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  remove  from  the  fire. 
Cover  witli  a  meringue  of  the  white  of  i  egg 
beaten  with  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  serve 
hot. 


24. — Orange  and  Lemon  Marmalade. 

Slice  4  unpeeled  oranges  very  thin,  peel  5 
lemons  and  slice  thin,  rejecting  all  seeds; 
cover  the  fruit  with  cold  water  and  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours.  Boil  until  the  orange 
peel  is  tender  and  let  stand  another  twenty- 
four  hours.  Measure,  bring  to  a  boil  an^ 
49 


April 


add  an  equal  measure  of  sugar ;  boil  about 
one-half  hour,  or  until  it  jellies. 

25.— Tutti-Frutti  Jelly. 

Soak  }i  box  of  gelatine  in  ^  cupful  of  cold 
water,  dissolve  in  i  pint  of  boiling  water,  add 
1 1^  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  3  sour 
oranges  and  strain.  When  it  begins  to  stiffen 
put  a  layer  of  jelly  to  a  mould;  when  hard, 
add  a  layer  of  sliced  bananas  which  have  been 
steeping  in  orange  juice,  and  another  layer 
of  semi-liquid  jelly.  When  this  is  hard  add 
a  layer  of  orange  pulp  cut  in  dice  and  cover 
this  with  jelly.  When  hard  add  a  layer  of 
grated  cocoanut  and  finish  with  jelly. 

26. — Golden  Cream. 

Dissolve  I  ounce  of  granulated  gelatine  in 
I  cupful  of  hot  water  ;  add  the  juice  of  3 
oranges,  the  grated  rind  of  i,  the  juice  of  i 
lemon,  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  i  cupful 
of  sugar.  Strain  into  a  double  boiler  and 
stir  until  thick,  then  turn  into  a  large  mould 
or  several  small  ones.  Serve  with  a  sauce 
made  by  stirring  into  i  cupful  of  thin  orange 
marmalade  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 
50 


April 


27. — Orange  Honey. 
Cream  ^  pound  of  butter  with  j^  pound 
of  sugar,  add  i  beaten  egg  and  stir  over  hot 
water;  add  gradually  the  grated  rind  of  i 
orange  and  ^  cupful  of  strained  orange  juice  ; 
stir  constantly  until  very  thick.  Use  for  fill- 
ing tart  shells,  or  put  between  layers  of  cake. 


28. — Orangeade. 
Peel  3  oranges  in  very  thin  slices  and  boil 
the  peel  with  ^  pound  of  sugar  in  i  pint  of 
water.  Squeeze  the  juice  from  15  oranges 
and  strain  with  3  pints  of  cold  water ;  add 
the  strained  syrup  and  keep  on  ice  for  at  least 
one  hour  before  serving.  Do  not  add  ice  to 
it  directly. 


29, — Orange  Granite. 

Melt  i^  cupfuls  of  sugar  in  i  pint  of 
water,  add  the  grated  rind  of  3  oranges  and 
boil  for  tw^enty  minutes.  AVhen  cold  add  i 
pint  of  orange  juice  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons ; 
strain  into  a  freezer  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt. 
Stir  occasionally  and  just  before  serving  add 
small  pieces  of  orange  which  have  been  sweet- 
ened and  chilled  on  ice. 
51 


April 


30. — Orange  and  Lemon  Pie. 

Mix  lYz  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  ]4  cupful  of 
sifted  flour;  add  i  cupful  of  orange  juice, 
the  grated  rind  of  i  orange  and  2  beaten 
eggs ;  beat  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and 
put  y^  the  amount  in  a  lined  pie  tin.  SUce 
2  lemons,  rejecting  the  end  slices  and  the 
seeds;  arrange  the  slices  as  a  layer  in  the  pie 
and  cover  with  the  remaining  batter.  Cover 
the  top  with  paste  and  cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  forty-five  minutes. 


62 


MAY. 


I. — Orange  and  Apple  Pie. 

Grate  the  rind  of  i  large  orange  lightly, 
then  remove  the  peel  and  chop  the  pulp  fine, 
rejecting  all  seeds.  Chop  i  pared  apple  fine, 
add  to  the  orange  with  i  cupful  of  sugar,  the 
grated  orange  peel,  i  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter  and  i  beaten  egg.  Bake  with  two 
crusts. 

2. — Veal  Cutlets  With  Orange  Sauce. 
Grate  2  young  onions  and  i  sour  orange, 
drain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a 
little  grated  horseradish  if  liked.     Serve  cold 
with  breaded  veal  cutlets. 


3 — Rhubarb  and  Orange  Sherbet. 

Cut  3  stalks  of  rhubarb  in  slices,  cover 
with  I  pint  of  boiling  water  and  simmer  for 
twenty  minutes.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve, 
add  I  pint  of  strained  orange  juice  and  sugar 
to  taste.  Serve  very  cold  with  wafers,  but 
53 


May 

do  not  add  ice  directly  to  the  sherbet. — Mrs. 
Belsliiie. 

4. — Sultana  Pudding. 
Line  a  round  mould  with  orange  marma- 
lade ice-cream  and  fill  the  center  with  whipped 
cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 
Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours  and  serve 
with  Claret  Sauce  :  Boil  3  gills  of  claret 
with  3  ounces  of  sugar  and  the  grated  rind 
of  I  orange  for  one  minute,  strain  and  serve 
ice  cold. 

5. — Frozen  Macedoine  of  Fruit. 
Shred  i  pineapple,  dice  the  pulp  of  2 
oranges  and  i  grape-fruit,  drain  the  syrup 
from  I  can  of  white  cherries;  add  water  to 
the  syrup  to  make  }^  pint,  add  i  cupful  of 
sugar  and  bring  to  a  boil ;  pour  over  the 
fruit,  add  i  cupful  of  Sauterne  and  when 
cold  pack  in  a  freezer  and  let  stand  for  three 
hours.     Serve  as  a  first  course  at  luncheon. 

6. — Orange  Baskets. 
Cut  two  pieces  from  each  orange,  leaving 
what  remains  in  shape  of  basket  with  handle; 
54 


May 


remove  pulp  from  baskets  and  pieces,  and 
keep  baskets  in  ice  water  until  ready  to  fill. 
From  orange  juice  make  orange  jelly  with 
which  to  fill  baskets.  Serve  garnished  with 
Cream  Sauce. — Miss  Fannie  M.  Farmer. 

7. — Pineapple  and  Orange  Cake  Filling. 
Grate  3  thin-skinned  oranges  and  remove 
all  seeds ;  add  i  cupful  of  grated  pineapple 
and  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Spread  between 
layers  of  cake  and  ice  the  top  and  sides  of 
the  cake. 

8. — Marmalade  Popovers. 
Beat  3  eggs  slightly,  add  i  pint  of  milk,  i 
pint  of  flour  and  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Fill 
well-buttered  cups  or  muffin  irons  ^  full  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty  minutes. 
After  taking  the  popovers  from  the  oven  open 
them  near  the  top,  put  i  spoonful  of  orange 
marmalade  in  each  one  and  serve  with  a 
creamy  sauce. 

9. — Orange  Bread-Crumb  Pudding. 
Soak   1I/3   cupfuls  of  bread   crumbs  in  i 
cupful   of  cold   water    for    twenty  minutes; 
55 


May 


add  I  cupful  of  sugar,  i  cupful  of  strained 
orange  juice,  i  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
2  whole  eggs  and  the  yolk  of  ^3  beaten 
slightly,  I  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and 
i^  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm. 
Cool  slightly,  cover  with  a  meringue  made 
of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  brown. 
Serve  hot. 

10. — San  Ysidro  Pudding. 
Cook  i^  cupful  of  instantaneous  tapioca  in 
I  pint  of  water  until  clear ;  add  i  cupful  of 
sugar,  and  the  juice  of  2  oranges,  and  re- 
move from  the  fire.  Stir  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  5  eggs  and  serve  cold  with  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  Johnston. 


II. — Orange  Curd  Pudding. 
Warm  i  quart  of  sweet  milk  to  blood  heat 
and  stir  in  2  teaspoonfuls  of  liquid  rennet  or 
2  dissolved  junket  tablets.  When  the  curd 
is  firm  cut  through  it  several  times  with  a 
spoon  and  drain  off  the  whey ;  mix  with  the 
curd  3  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  2 
56 


May 

tablespoon fuls  of  sugar  creamed  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
milk,  2  beaten  eggs  and  the  juice  and  the 
grated  rind  of  yi  an  orange.  Fill  buttered 
moulds  Yz  full  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.     Serve  with  sweet  cream. 

12. — Sliced  Orange  Tarts. 

Grate  several  oranges  lightly  and  put  tlie 
oranges  to  soak  for  three  days  in  water  to 
cover ;  change  the  water  three  times  each 
day,  then  boil  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them. 
When  cold  cut  a  thick  slice  from  each  end  of 
the  oranges  and  cut  the  rest  in  thin  slices; 
line  tart  moulds  with  puff-paste,  fill  with 
alternate  layers  of  oranges  and  sugar  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

13. — Orange  Frapp6. 

Strain  the  juice  of  6  large  oranges,  add  i 
cupful  of  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved  and  put 
on  ice  for  two  hours.  Put  2  quarts  of  thin 
cream  in  a  freezer  packed  with  ice  until  it  is 
beginning  to  freeze,  then  add  the  orange  juice 
with  more  sugar  if  required ;  renew  ice  and 
salt  around  the  can  and  freeze  quickly. 
57 


May 

14. — Marmalade  Devons. 

Cut  out  from  the  underside  of  lady-fingers 
as  much  of  the  crumb  as  possible  without 
breaking  the  outside;  fill  the  space  with 
orange  marmalade,  press  together  in  pairs 
and  serve  at  once. 

15. — Orange  Sabayon  Sauce. 

Cream  j^  cupful  of  butter  with  j^  cupful 
of  sugar,  beat  in  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  }i 
cupful  of  cream  ;  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
slightly  thick,  add  j^  cupful  of  orange  juice 
and  I  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice;  serve  hot 
with  rice  or  sago  pudding. — Miss  Janet  M. 
Hill. 

16. — Orange  Syrup  for  Drinking. 
Boil  I  pint  of  water  and  i  pound  of  sugar 
for  five  minutes  without  stirring ;  when  cool 
add  I  quart  of  strained  orange  juice  ;  use  in 
iced  seltzer  water  or  witli  the  glass  half  filled 
with  cracked  ice  and  filled  up  with  the  un- 
diluted syrup. 

17. — Orange  Float. 
To   I    quart  of  water,  add  the  juice  of  2 


May 


oranges,  the  grated  peel  of  i  orange,  i  cup- 
ful of  sugar  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch;  boil  until  clear  and  pour  over  the 
diced  pulp  of  6  oranges.  Serve  ice  cold  with 
a  meringue  or  with  whipped  cream  dropped 
in  spoonfuls  on  the  float. 

18. — Westmoreland  Pie. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  with  i  pound  of 
powdered  sugar,  add  one  at  a  time  the  un- 
beaten whites  of  4  eggs  and  beat  until  very 
light.  Cream  3  ounces  of  butter  and  add  the 
eggs  and  butter  to  it  very  slowly ;  when  well 
mixed,  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2 
large  oranges  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Bake  pie 
shells  of  puff- paste,  fill  this  with  custard  when 
it  is  cold  and  cover  with  meringue. 

19. — Sweetbreads  With  Orange. 
Boil  I  large  sweetbread  for  twenty  minutes 
in  water  to  which  has  been  added  the  juice 
of  I  sour  orange.  Remove  the  skin  and  all 
tough  portions  of  the  sweetbread,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  make  several  gashes  and 
baste  with  melted  butter  while  baking  in  a 
59 


May 


quick  oven.  When  baked  to  a  delicate 
brown  garnish  with  orange  leaves  and  slices, 
and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  slightly- 
thickened  white  stock  to  which  3  very  thin 
slices  of  I  unpeeled  orange  have  been  added. 

20. — Glasgow  Cakes. 
Cream  i  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  i 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar;  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs,  the  juice  of  3  oranges, 
and  the  grated  rind  of  y^  an  orange,  i  cupful 
of  flour  sifted  with  i^  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder;  bake  in  small  tins  and  cover  with 
fondant  icing.  Decorate  with  tiny  rounds 
cut  out  of  candied  orange  peel,  and  young 
orange  shoots  or  strips  of  angelica. — Mrs. 
Stephen. 


21. — Orange  Roll. 

Sift  I  quart  of  flour  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-pow^der,  rub  in  i  cupful  of  butter  and 
add  sweet  milk  to  roll  one-half  inch  thick.  Dice 
the  pulp  of  4  oranges  and  place  on  the  dough, 
sprinkle  with  ^  cupful  of  sugar,  cut  i  table- 
spoonful of  butter  in  bits,  roll  them  in  flour 
and  place  on  the  sugar.  Roll  up  the  dough, 
60 


May 

pinch  the  ends  together,  put  in  a  deep  baking 
dish  with  i  cupful  of  water,  }^  cupful  of 
sugar  and  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Bake  one- 
half  hour  and  serve  with  thin  cream  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  orange-flower  water. 

22. — Raymond  Salad. 

The  diced  pulp  of  5  oranges  and  3  lemons, 
I  pint  of  minced  celery,  i  pint  of  large 
halved  strawberries ;  chill,  drain  and  serve 
with  fruit  mayonnaise  which  has  a  cup  of 
crushed  strawberries  added  to  it  just  before 
serving. 

23. — Arizona  Fritters. 
Peel  6  bananas,  cut  each  in  two  and  steep 
for  one  hour  in  the  juice  of  2  oranges. 
Drain  the  bananas,  then  roll  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Sweeten  the  orange  juice  to  taste  and  serve 
hot  or  cold  with  the  fritters. 

24. — Frozen  Victoria  Punch. 

Steep  the  grated  rind  of  30  oranges  and  4 

lemons   in    i   pint  of  rum.     Boil  5   pints  of 

water  with  3j/^  pounds  of  sugar  for  ten  min- 

61 


May 


utes;  add  to  the  rum  the  juice  of  7  oranges 
and  of  14  lemons,  i^  pints  of  sherry  and  the 
boiling  syrup.  Strain  at  once  and  cool 
quickly.  Freeze  until  thick,  then  stir  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  6  eggs  and  freeze  until  stiff 
and  smooth.     Pack  for  two  hours. 

25.— Bridge  Club  Soup. 
Stem  and  wash  i  quart  of  strawberries,  re- 
serving a  few  of  the  most  perfect  ones.  Cover 
the  fruit  \vith  one  cupful  of  water,  cook  until 
soft  and  strain  through  muslin.  Measure  the 
juice  and  add  water  if  necessary  to  make  2 
cupfuls;  reheat  and  add  i  level  tahlespoonful 
of  corn-starch  moistened  with  cold  water,  the 
grated  rind  of  ]4,  an  orange  and  yi  cupful  of 
sugar;  cook  ten  minutes,  then  remove  from 
the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  i  orange  and  sugar 
if  needed.     Serve  cold  in  bouillon  cups. 

26. — Velvet  Cream. 

Soak  y^  box  of  gelatine  in  ly^  cupfuls  of 
sherry ;  when  soft  add  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  i  orange  and  i  ^  cupfuls  of  sugar ; 
heat  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  strain  and 
set  away  to  cool.  When  cold  add  1]^  pints 
62 


May 


of  cream  and  beat  until  as  stiff  as  drop  bat- 
ter; then  pour  into  moulds  and  set  on  ice. 

27. — Melton  Pudding. 

Sweeten  to  taste  fi  cupful  of  orange  juice, 
Yz  cupful  of  lemon  juice  and  i  cupful  of 
water;  bring  to  a  boil  and  add  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn-starch  which  has  been 
moistened  with  cold  water  and  cook  ten 
minutes.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs, 
cook  for  two  minutes  and  put  into  a  mould 
with  alternate  layers  of  diced  orange  pulp. 
Serve  cold  with  a  custard  made  with  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  i  pint  of  milk,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  i  orange. 

28. — Messenger's  Pudding. 
Beat  6  eggs  with  4  ounces  of  sugar ;  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  warm  butter  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  orange  paste.  Fill  a  pie  tin 
lined  with  puif-paste  and  bake  twenty  min- 
utes. 

29. — Asparagus  Tips  With  Orange 

Sauce. 
Place  boiled  asparagus  tips  on  toast  and 
cover  with  the  following  sauce  :    Soften  % 
63 


May 

cupful  of  butter,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  the  juice  of  i  lemon  and  i  cupful  of 
strained  orange  juice.  Cook  over  hot  water 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly  until  thick. 

30. — Chico  Puffs. 
Roll  puff-paste  very  thin  and  cut  in  rounds ; 
place  I  spoonful  of  stiff  orange  marmahide  on 
each  round,  wet  the  edges  with  a  little  white 
of  egg,  fold  one-half  over  and  press  closely. 
Brush  each  puff  with  white  of  egg  beaten 
with  a  little  powdered  sugar  and  bake  fifteen 
minutes. 

31. — Bombe  Malta. 

Boil  2  cupfuls  of  water  and  i  cupful  of 
sugar  for  twenty  minutes;  add  i  cupful  of 
blood-orange  juice,  the  grated  rind  of  i  yel- 
low orange,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice 
and  a  little  red  coloring  paste.  Strain  into  a 
freezer  and  freeze  until  stiff.  Line  a  mould 
with  the  orange  ice  and  fill  the  center  with 
vanilla  ice-cream ;  fasten  the  cover  securely 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours. 


64 


JUNE. 


I. — Rhubarb  and  Orange  Jam. 

Wash  I  pound  of  rhubarb  and  cut  into 
small  pieces  without  peeling.  Add  to  this 
the  juice  and  pulp  of  6  oranges,  and  3  cup- 
fuls  of  sugar.  Cook  slowly  until  quite  stiff, 
and  put  in  small  glasses. 


2. — Orange  Mint  Cup. 
Pour  I  quart  of  boiling  water  over  a  large 
bunch  of  fresh  mint,  strain  after  five  minutes 
and  when  cool,  add  the  juice  of  6  oranges  and 
2  lemons.  Steep  ^  ounce  of  powdered  gum- 
arabic  in  I  cupful  of  water  for  twenty  min- 
utes, then  dissolve  it  over  hot  water,  add  i 
cupful  of  sugar  and  boil  until  it  spins  a 
thread.  Have  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten 
very  stiff,  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  them 
and  beat  until  cold  and  smooth,  then  add 
the  strained  fruit  juice ;  add  carbonated 
water  to  taste  and  serve  very  cold,  but  not 
with  ice  added  directly. 
65 


Jane 


3.— Pink  Sherbet. 
Boil  3  quarts  of  water,  3  cupfuls  of  strained 
orange  juice,  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  3  cupfuls 
of  strawberry  juice  and  3  pounds  of  sugar  for 
twenty  minutes.  Color  a  delicate  pink,  strain 
into  a  freezer  and  freeze  until  thick  ;  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  6  eggs  and  pack  for  two 
hours. 


4. — Duarte  Salad. 
Dice  the  pulp  of  4  oranges  and  shred  a 
small  pineapple;  place  the  pineapple  in  the 
center  of  a  dish,  surround  with  the  orange  and 
garnish  with  i  box  of  bright,  red  strawberries. 
Place  on  ice  until  very  cold  and  just  before 
serving  pour  over  the  salad  ^  cupful  of 
lemon  juice  in  which  ^  cupful  of  sugar  has 
been  dissolved. 


5. — Salpicon  of  Fruit. 

Cut  the  tops  from  12  oranges  and  remove 
the  pulp  ;  free  this  from  all  pith  and  seeds  and 
add  I  box  of  strawberries,  %  pound  of  pitted 
cherries,  ^  cupful  of  soft  orange  marmalade 
and  3  sliced  bananas.  Sweeten  to  taste  and 
66 


June 


fill  the  orange  peels.     Serve  very  cold  with  i 
spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  each. 

6. — Orange  Icing. 
Beat   the  whites   of   2   eggs  with  enough 
powdered  sugar  to  thicken  ;  add  the  grated 
rind  of  i  orange  and  a  little  juice,  not  enough 
to  thin  the  icing. 

7. — Orange  Omelette. 

Cut  the  pulp  of  2  oranges  in  thin  slices, 
sprinkle  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
place  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
4  eggs  with  the  grated  rind  of  the  oranges 
and  a  pinch  of  salt,  fold  in  the  whites  beaten 
stiff  with  I  tablespoon ful  of  powdered  sugar 
and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  orange  juice.  Put  i 
teaspoon  ful  of  butter  in  a  hot  omelette  pan 
and  when  it  is  melted  pour  in  the  egg  mix- 
ture ;  when  the  omelette  begins  to  thicken 
spread  over  one-half  of  it  the  sliced  and 
drained  oranges,  fold  the  other  half  over  the 
oranges,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 
serve. 

8. — Macaroni  With  Orange  Sauce. 
Boil  i^  pound  of  macaroni  for  twenty  min- 
67 


June 

utes  with  I  onion,  i  bay-leaf,  i  blade  of  mace 
and  6  peppercorns  in  the  water ;  when  done 
drain  and  add  to  the  following  sauce,  cook- 
ing only  long  enough  to  have  it  very  hot. 
Sauce  :  Slice  3  tomatoes  and  2  peeled  oranges, 
remove  the  seeds  and  veins  from  4  green 
chilis  and  cut  fine  with  scissors,  mince  parsley 
to  make  i  tablespoonful  and  cook  all  together 
for  twenty  minutes.  Thicken  slightly  with  i 
teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  rubbed  into  ^ 
cupful  of  butter.  Salt  to  taste  after  adding 
the  macaroni. 

9. — Lucile  Shortcake. 
Bake  flat  circles  of  puff-paste  the  size  of  a 
pie  tin ;  just  before  serving  cover  each  circle 
with  diced  and  drained  orange  pulp  and  put 
together  like  layer  cake.  Ice  the  top  and 
serve  with  the  drained  orange  juice  sweetened 
to  taste. 

10. — Fiesta  Salad. 

Slice  peeled  oranges  and  place  3  slices  on 

each   plate  to  be  served,    arrange   on  these 

slices  the  reddest  strawberries  obtainable  and 

surround     with     shredded     lettuce     leaves. 

68 


June 


Serve  with  whipped  cream  mixed  with  as 
much  juice  from  orange  marmalade  as  it  will 
take  and  remain  stiff;    add  sugar  if  required. 


II. — Stewed  Cucumbers  With  Orange 
Sauce. 
Cut  cucumbers  into  quarters  and  boil  for 
twenty  minutes  in  salted  water;  drain,  lay 
on  toast  and  cover  with  the  following  sauce  : 
Melt  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  i  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  i  cupful  of  strained 
orange  juice;  stir  until  smooth  and  add  salt, 
pepper  and  i  saltspoonful  of  grated  orange 
peel. 

12. — Orange  Rice  Cups. 

Boil  ^  cupful  of  rice  in  i  quart  of  water 
until  tender,  pour  off  the  water  and  steam  the 
rice  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  it  into  small 
moulds  and  pour  over  each  mould  enough 
sweetened  orange  juice  to  thoroughly  moisten 
the  rice.  Keep  the  rice  hot  in  the  moulds 
until  ready  to  serve,  then  turn  each  form  on 
to  a  warm  plate  and  add  to  each  i  table- 
spoonful  of  orange  marmalade. 
69 


June 


13. — Ruby  Salad. 
To  the  diced  pulp  of  8  blood  oranges,  add 
the  pulp  of  I  grape-fruit  and  i  cupful  of  straw- 
berries preserved  whole.  Serve  with  the 
syrup  from  the  strawberries  diluted  with  the 
juice  of  y^  a  lemon. 

14. — Orange  and  Rhubarb  Marmalade. 
To  each  pint  of  peeled  and  sliced  rhubarb, 
allow  3  oranges  and  12  ounces  of  sugar. 
Peel  the  yellow  rind  from  the  oranges  and  cut 
it  into  straws  ;  cut  the  pulp  in  slices  and  cook 
with  the  sugar  and  rhubarb  over  a  moderate 
fire  until  it  will  jelly,  skimming  well.  Boil 
the  shredded  peel  in  plenty  of  water  for  twenty 
minutes  before  adding  to  the  marmalade. 
Cover  when  cold. 


15. — Fillet  of  Venison. 
Place  a  larded  fillet  of  venison  in  a  baking- 
pan  with  I  chopped  onion,  i  chopped  carrot, 
I  bay-leaf,  i  sprig  of  thyme  and  a  few  whole 
peppercorns.  Bake  i^.^  hours,  basting  fre- 
quently with  y:l  pound  butter  melted  in  i 
cupful  of  hot  water.  When  the  venison  is 
70 


June 


done  remove  it  from  the  pan,  add  to  the  pan 
I  cupful  of  stock,  let  boil  a  moment  and  strain 
into  a  bowl  set  in  ice.  Remove  the  fat  as 
soon  as  possible  and  return  the  sauce  to  the 
fire,  add  i  cupful  of  sour  orange  juice,  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  grated  orange  rind,  a  little  cay- 
enne pepper  and  browned  flour  to  thicken. 
Pour  a  little  sauce  over  the  venison,  garnish 
with  orange  slices  and  serve  the  rest  of  the 
sauce  in  a  separate  bowl. 


i6. — Punch  k  la  Cardinal  Richelieu. 

The  juice  of  5  oranges,  i  quart  of  water  in 
which  I  box  of  gelatine  has  been  dissolved,  3 
quarts  of  claret,  i  pint  of  port  wine,  2  gills 
of  brandy,  3  pints  of  water,  2^  pounds  of 
sugar,  I  small  tablespoonful  of  whole  cloves, 
]/2  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon.  Make  a  syrup 
of  the  sugar  and  3  pints  of  water  and  while 
boiling  pour  it  over  the  spices  and  the  grated 
rind  of  the  oranges.  Add  the  claret  and  set 
aside  to  cool ;  when  cold,  add  the  orange  juice 
and  the  unbeaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  strain  and 
freeze  until  thick ;  then,  add  the  quart  of  dis- 
solved gelatine,  the  port  wine  and  the  brandy 
and  red  color  paste  to  give  a  bright  tint. 
71 


June 

Finish  freezing  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for 
at  least  two  hours. 

17. — Granite  Camilla. 

Take  the  pulp  of  4  large  or  6  small  oranges, 
I  shredded  pineapple,  2  cupfuls  of  strawber- 
ries cut  in  quarters,  3  bananas  cut  in  quarters 
lengthwise  and  then  in  small  slices;  put  all 
into  a  large  bowl  and  add  the  juice  of  3  lemons 
in  wliich  3  cupfuls  of  sugar  have  been  dis- 
solved. Put  all  into  a  freezer,  stir  occasion- 
ally until  half  frozen,  then  remove  the  beater, 
pack  the  granite  down  well,  renew  the  ice  and 
salt  and  let  it  stand  packed  for  two  hours. 

18. — Breast  of  Lamb  With  Orange 
Stuffing. 

Remove  the  seeds  from  i  thin-skinned 
orange  and  chop,  peel  and  pulp;  chop  ^ 
cupful  of  blanched  almonds  and  add  wdth  the 
orange  to  2  cupfuls  of  fine  bread  crumbs, 
season  with  salt  and  spread  on  a  3  pound  cut 
of  breast  of  lamb ;  roll,  tie  securely  and  bake 
one  hour,  basting  the  first  one-half  hour  with 
I  cupful  of  hot  water  in  which  i  sliced  orange 
is  steeping.  For  gravy  thicken  the  drippings 
72 


Jane 

with  flour,  add  boiling  water  and  season  with 
orange  catsup. 

19. — Strawberry  Oranges. 

Cut  off  the  tops  of  large  oranges  and  re- 
move all  contents.  Cut  part  of  the  pulp  in 
dice  and  use  with  an  equal  amount  of  straw- 
berries to  fill  the  peels.  Dissolve  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar  in  i  tablespoonful  of  sherry  for 
each  orange  and  pour  over  the  fruit ;  serve 
very  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

20. — Mos61a  Pudding. 
Boil  I  pint  of  thick  cream ;  beat  the  yolks 
of  6  eggs  with  i  cupful  of  sugar,  add  to  the 
boiling  cream  and  stir  until  thick.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  i  pint  of  cold  cream  ; 
flavor  with  vanilla  to  taste  and  freeze.  Line 
a  round  mould  with  this  when  frozen,  and 
fill  the  center  with  orange  ice.  Pack  in  ice 
and  salt  for  two  hours  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

21. — Tapioca  Jelly. 
Cook   ^   cupful  of  pearl  tapioca  with  3 
cupfuls  of  water  for  one  hour,  stirring  often. 
73 


June 


When  the  tapioca  is  clear  add  i  salt-spoonful 
of  salt,  }^  cupful  of  sugar  and  ^  cupful  of 
orange  juice ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
pour  into  a  serving  dish  and  set  on  ice. 
Serve  with  sweetened  orange  juice. 

22. — Apple  and  Orange  Tarts. 
Rub  6  oranges  well  with  salt  and  put  for 
two  days  in  weak  brine  to  cover ;  then  change 
into  fresh  water  every  day  for  two  weeks. 
Boil  the  oranges  in  fresh  water  until  tender, 
then  cut  into  as  thin  slices  as  possible.  Pare, 
core  and  quarter  6  pippins  and  boil  until 
they  break  in  i  pint  of  water;  add  all  the 
liquor  and  j^  the  pulp  to  the  oranges  with  i 
pound  of  sugar  ;  boil  all  together  fifteen  min- 
utes and  use  to  fill  tart  tins  which  have  been 
lined  with  puff-paste.  Brush  over  with  melted 
butter,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes. 

23. — Sliced  Bananas  With  Orange 

Dressing. 

Slice  6  bananas  and  place  in  a  glass  dish 

with    alternate   layers   of    powdered    sugar; 

pour  over  them  2  cupfuls  of  strained  orange 

74 


June 

juice  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla  to 
taste. 

24. — Pacific  Pudding. 
Roll  12  dry  macaroons,  butter  a  pudding 
mould  and  dust  thickly  with  the  crumbs. 
Place  in  the  mould  alternate  layers  of  whole 
macaroons  dipped  in  orange -flower  water, 
and  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake  spread  with 
orange  marmalade.  Cover  each  layer  with 
custard  made  with  3  eggs,  ^  cupful  of  sugar, 
I  pint  of  milk  and  the  remaining  macaroon 
crumbs.  Steam  in  the  oven  forty-five  min- 
utes and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

25. — Genoa  Cake. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  with  2  cupfuls  of 
sugar  ;  add  the  juice  of  2  oranges  and  water, 
if  necessary,  to  make  i  cupful,  the  grated 
rind  of  2  oranges,  2  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted 
with  I  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  and 
the  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.  Bake  in  layers 
and  spread  with  the  following  jelly :  Dis- 
solve I  heaping  teaspoonful  of  granulated 
gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  to  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  oranges  and  ^ 
75 


June 

cupful  of  sugar;  boil  together  for  ten  min- 
utes and  use  while  warm. 

26. — Orange  Cream  Cups. 

Dissolve  I  cupful  of  sugar  in  i  pint  of  hot 
water,  boil  without  stirring  until  the  syrup 
spins  a  thread.  Add  i  pint  of  strained 
orange  juice  and  the  juice  of  i  lemon  ;  scald 
I  cupful  of  cream,  stir  it  into  the  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  cool  and  mix  with  the  syrup. 
When  very  cold,  add  i  cupful  of  cream 
whipped  stiff,  i^  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  a 
very  little  yellow  color  paste ;  freeze  and  serve 
in  glasses. 

27.— Orange  Cheese  Balls. 

Add  the  juice  of  i  sour  orange,  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  to  i  small  cream  cheese 
which  has  been  mashed  fine ;  sprinkle  with 
the  grated  rind  of  i  orange  and  serve  with 
crackers;  or  form  into  small  balls,  place 
halves  of  walnuts  on  each  and  serve  with 
lettuce  leaves  and  French  dressing. 


28. — Tangerines  Glacis. 

Boil  I  cupful  of  sugar  with 
76 


14^  cupful  of 


June 

water  to  tlie  crack ;  dip  in  this  syrup  sections 

of  6  tangerines  and  arrange  them  in  an  over- 
lapping pattern  around  the  outside  of  a  smooth 
mould  which  has  been  thoroughly  oiled. 
When  the  sugar  is  firm  remove  the  mould 
carefully  and  fill  the  orange  basket  with 
whipped  cream  sweetened  to  taste  and  fla- 
vored with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  apricot  brandy. 

29. — Orange  Tea  Biscuits. 

Cream  j^  cupful  of  butter  with  j/^  cupful 
of  sugar ;  add  i  beaten  egg  and  i  scant  cup- 
ful of  flour  sifted  with  i  salt-spoonful  of 
baking-powder,  i  teaspoonful  of  grated  orange 
peel  and  ^  cupful  of  orange  juice.  Roll 
thin,  cut  in  rounds,  place  on  each  4  halves 
of  blanched  almonds,  dust  with  sugar  and 
bake  to  a  light  straw  color  in  a  slow  oven. 

30. — Orange  Paste. 
Boil  the  thin  parings  of  4  oranges  in  water 
until  tender,  then  beat  fine  into  a  mortar ;  add 
the  seeded  pulp  of  6  oranges  and  i  gill  of 
orange- flower  water  and  cook  over  a  slow 
fire  until  quite  dry,  stirring  constantly.  To 
every  pound  of  pulp,  weighed  before  cook- 
77 


June 


ing,  add  4^  pounds  of  sugar  which  has  been 
heated ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is 
mehed,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  A  little 
grated  or  shredded  fresh  peel  may  be  added 
if  liked,  and  when  it  is  cold  form  it  into 
wafer-shaped  cakes  and  dry  in  a  slow  oven. 


78 


JULY. 


I. — Cherry  Cup. 
One  pint  of  cherries,  stoned  and  bruised, 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  oranges  and  i 
lemon,  i  cupful  of  sugar ;  stir  and  let  stand 
one  hour.  Add  1  quart  of  water,  pass 
through  a  vegetable  press  and  then  through 
cheese-cloth,  add  i  pint  of  claret  and  set  on 
ice.  Serve  in  punch  glasses  with  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  shaved  ice  and  a  few  cherries  cut  small 
in  each  glass. 

2. — Orange  Gelatine  Ice  Cream. 
Dissolve  i^  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  ^  cup- 
ful of  water,  add  the  juice  of  5  oranges  and 
the  grated  rind  of  2,  i  pound  of  sugar  and 
color  paste  if  needed  to  give  a  yellow  tint. 
Strain  and  freeze. 

3. — Currant  and  Orange  Jam. 
Boil  5  pounds  of  stemmed  currants  with  4 


Juh 


pounds  of  sugar  for  twenty  minutes ;  chop  2 
whole  oranges  and  the  pulp  of  a  third  one  into 
small  pieces,  add  to  the  currants  and  boil  five 
minutes;  after  boiling  begins  add  i  pound  of 
seedless  raisins  and  boil  another  five  minutes, 
put  in  small  glasses  and  seal. 


4. — American  Salad. 
Coat  the  bottoms  and  sides  of  individual 
moulds  with  orange  jelly;  use  the  jelly  as  it 
begins  to  harden  and  have  the  moulds  very 
cold.  On  the  bottoms  arrange  cherries  which 
have  had  the  stones  replaced  with  hazelnuts; 
place  orange  sections  around  the  sides.  When 
the  fruit  is  firmly  in  place  fill  up  the  moulds 
with  orange  jelly.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  orange  mayonnaise. 

5. — Germea  Mould. 

Fill  moulds  loosely  with  diced  orange 
pulp;  cook  germea  in  the  proportion  of  i 
cupful  of  germea  to  4  cupfuls  of  milk  or 
water,  sweeten  to  taste  and  pour  over  the 
diced  oranges,  stirring  if  necessary  to  mix 
thoroughly.  Serve  very  cold  with  cream  for 
breakfast  or  with  a  cold  sauce  for  dessert, 
80 


July 


6. — Barbada  Jumbles. 

Cream  2  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  i^  cupfuls 
of  butter ;  add  6  eggs  one  at  a  time,  when 
smooth,  add  the  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of 
]4  an  orange,  ^  cupful  of  corn-starch  and  3 
cupfuls  of  flour  measured  after  sifting.  Mix 
in  I  pound  of  blanched  and  ground  almonds, 
roll  thin,  cut  in  rings,  sprinkle  with  ground 
almonds  and  sugar  mixed  in  equal  propor- 
tions and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

7. — Boiled  Ham  With  Cherry  Orange 
Sauce. 
Boil  a  small  ham  in  cider  and  water  until 
tender,  then  remove  the  skin,  cover  with 
bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  brown 
in  the  oven.  Serve  hot  with  Cherry  Orange 
Sauce  :  Boil  i  pint  of  cherries  with  the  grated 
rind  of  i  orange  for  one-half  hour.  When 
soft  rub  through  a  sieve  and  put  back  on  the 
fire  with  i  cupful  of  sour  orange  juice  and  i 
tablespoonful  of  flour  which  has  been  browned 
with  I  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cook  until 
slightly  thick  and  serve  hot. 

8. — Delicate  Pudding. 
Bring  to  a  boil  ^3  cupful  of  orange  juicCj 

ai 


Juh 


y^  cupful  of  lemon  juice  and  i  cupful  of 
water;  add  3  tablespoon fuls  of  corn-starch 
mixed  wiUi  a  little  cold  water,  and  sugar  to 
taste.  Boil  slowly  ten  minutes  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  mix  well  and  turn 
into  a  mould.     Serve  cold  with  custard. 


9. — Orange  Lovewell. 

Cut  a  circle  of  puff-paste  eight  inches 
across,  and  three  rims  each  about  one  and 
a  half  inches  wide ;  bake  all  separately  in  a 
very  hot  oven,  and  when  done  fix  the  rims 
in  place  on  the  circle  with  thin  orange  mar- 
malade and  fill  the  center  with  freshly-sliced 
oranges. 


10. — Orange  Meringue  Pie. 
Cream  i  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  %  cup- 
ful of  powdered  sugar,  beat  in  the  juice  and 
the  grated  rind  of  i  orange  and  ^  a  lemon,  a 
few  gratings  of  nutmeg,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs 
and  the  white  of  i  beaten  until  light.  Bake 
in  an  open  crust  and  when  cool  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  with  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
82 


July 


II. — Cornelia  Cake. 

Weigh  3  eggs  and  take  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar,  butter  and  flour.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  add  2  eggs  and  beat  well,  add  the 
juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  ^  an  orange  and 
half  the  flour.  Beat  until  smooth,  then  add 
the  third  egg  and  the  rest  of  the  flour  sifted 
with  a  level  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  and  ice  with  orange  icing. 


12.— Mint  Sherbet. 
Strip  enough  mint  leaves  from  the  stem  to 
fill  I  cup,  chop  them,  add  the  juice  of  2 
lemons  and  steep  for  fifteen  minutes.  Boil  i 
pint  of  sugar  with  i  pint  of  water  to  a  thread, 
take  from  the  fire,  add  i  cupful  of  orange 
juice,  the  chopped  mint  and  lemon  juice; 
cool,  strain  and  freeze. 


13.— Orange  and  Gooseberry  Preserves. 

Stem  5  pounds  of  gooseberries,  seed  i^ 
pounds  of  raisins,  cut  the  yellow  peel  in  thin 
slices  for  3  oranges  and  chop  all  very  fine. 
Use  a  grinding  machine  if  preferred.  Add 
the  juice  of  3  large  oranges  and  4  pounds  of 
sugar  and  boil  gently  for  forty-five  minutes, 
83 


July 


Stirring  frequently.     Put  in  small  glasses  and 
when  cold  cover  with  paraffine. 

14. — Marseilles  Tarts. 

Scald  y2  cupful  of  milk  and  pour  it  over  8 
dry  macaroons,  beat  them  smooth  and  add  6 
eggs  beaten  with  6  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  ;  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  until  thick,  remove  from  the 
fire  and  add  }(  cupful  of  butter  and  the  juice 
of  I  orange.  Line  tart  moulds  with  puff- 
paste,  fill  with  the  mixture  and  bake  until 
firm. 

15. — Orange  Catsup. 
Slice  5  pounds  of  green  tomatoes  and  cook 
them  with  a  little  water  until  tender ;  add  5 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  12  oranges  (man- 
darins preferred)  sliced  and  seeded  but  not 
peeled,  and  i  ounce  of  green  ginger  root 
sliced  thin.  Boil  for  two  hours,  or  until  thick. 
Put  in  small  glasses  and  serve  with  game. 


16. — Engracia  Cake. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  10  eggs  with  i  pound  of 
powdered     sugar    and    the   juice   of   }^    an 
orange;   add  alternately  i  pound  of  flour  and 

84 


July 


the  beaten  whites  of  lo  eggs ;  use  no  baking- 
powder.  Bake  in  small  triangular  moulds  in 
a  moderate  oven  and  when  cold  join  5  of 
these  cakes  with  thick  orange  marmalade. 
Dip  in  fondant  icing  colored  orange,  drain  on 
a  wire  broiler  and  redip  if  necessary. 


17. — Bernard  Punch. 

Bring  to  a  boil  the  juice  of  2  oranges,  i 
cupful  of  sherry  and  2  cupfuls  of  sugar  ;  add 
the  beaten  white  of  i  (:tgQ^,  simmer  five  min- 
utes and  strain  through  fine  muslin.  When 
very  cold,  but  not  with  ice  added,  serve  in 
frap[)e  glasses ;  place  in  each  glass  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  orange  pulp,  bananas  and  Mara- 
schino cherries  cut  in  small  pieces  and 
mixed. 


18. — Renato  Syllabubs. 

Steep  the  grated  peel  of  i  orange  over 
night  in  i  pint  of  Madeira  wine;  in  tiie 
morning,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy,  3 
cui)fuls  of  rich  cream  beaten  stiff  with  the 
white  of  I  egg,  and  the  juice  of  i  orange. 
Sweeten  to  taste  and  serve  in  glasses  very 
cold. 

85 


July 

ig. — Fruit  Mayonnaise. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  the  juice  of  i 
lemon,  the  juice  of  i  orange  and  i  pint  of  oil 
as  for  any  mayonnaise  and  just  before  serving, 
add  I  tablespoonful  of  acid  white  wine.  Use 
with  any  fruit  salad. 

20.— Fillet  of  Veal  With  Oranges. 

Lard  a  3  pound  fillet  of  veal  and  put  in  a 
stew-pan  with  slices  of  bacon,  i  carrot,  i 
onion  and  i  cupful  of  water.  Cook  slowly 
until  the  meat  begins  to  brown,  add  i  cupful 
of  orange  juice  and  i  cupful  of  stock  or 
enough  to  cover  the  veal ;  cook  slowly  until 
done,  one  hour  from  the  beginning  should  be 
enough.  Remove  the  meat,  strain  the  gravy 
and  serve  in  a  separate  dish  without  thicken- 
ing. If  desired  cold,  boil  the  gravy  to  a 
glaze  and  baste  the  veal  until  well  coated. 

21 Tropical  Salad. 

Pare  i  pineapple  and  slice  both  across  and 
lengthwise  but  do  not  detach  from  the  core 
until  serving  ;  place  this  in  the  center  of  a 
mould  taller  than  the  pineapple.  Peel  and 
quarter  lengthwise  enough  bananas  to  stand 


July 


around  the  pineapple  alternated  with  slices 
of  oranges.  Have  i  quart  of  orange  jelly 
which  is  beginning  to  stiffen  and  drop  it  into 
the  dish  in  spoonfuls,  adding  grapes  and 
small  fruits  according  to  taste.  When  firm 
serve  from  the  table  with  orange  mayonnaise. 


22. — Rosal  Punch. 

Dissolve  I  pound  of  sugar  in  3  pints  of  hot 
water;  when  cold  add  i  cupful  of  orange 
juice,  ]/^  cupful  of  lemon  juice  and  i]4, 
cupfuls  of  syrup  from  any  red  fruit  crushed 
with  sugar, — cherries,  raspberries  or  cur- 
rants. Half  an  hour  before  serving  put  in 
a  punch  bowl  with  a  lump  of  ice,  ^  cupful 
of  shredded  pineapple  and  i  orange  cut  in 
thin  slices. 


23. — Sliced  Orange  Cake  Filling. 

Put  in  a  double  boiler  the  diced  pulp  of  2 
oranges  and  the  grated  rind  of  i ;  add  i  ta- 
blespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  water  and  stir  until  thick,  adding 
water  or  orange  juice  if  too  thick.  Just  before 
taking  from  the  fire  add  the  yolk  of  i  tgg 
87 


July 


beaten  with  2  lablespoonfulsof  sugar.  When 
cool  use  between  layers  of  cake  or  in  cream 
puffs. 

24. — Orange  Ice  Souffle. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  add  i  cupful 
of  strained  orange  juice.  Put  in  a  double 
boiler  and  stir  until  the  spoon  is  coated.  Put 
the  saucepan  in  cold  water  and  stir  until  the 
custard  is  cold  and  thick.  Boil  1}^  pounds 
of  sugar  and  %  cupful  of  water  to  a  soft  ball. 
Set  the  saucepan  in  water  for  three  minutes, 
then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  stir 
until  cold  and  stiff;  slir  this  into  the  custard 
with  I  pint  of  whipped  cream,  measured  after 
whipping ;  turn  into  a  mould  and  bury  in  ice 
and  salt  for  two  hours. 


25.— Florida  Trifle. 
Soak  y^  a  box  of  gelatine  in  i  cupful  ol 
water  for  one  hour,  add  i  cupful  of  boiling 
water  and  wlien  dissolved  add  i  cupful  of 
sugar,  the  juice  of  3  oranges  and  the  grated 
rind  of  i.  Put  in  a  double  boiler  and  when 
hot  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from 
88 


July 


the  fire  and  when  it  begins  to  stiffen  beat  in 
I  pint  of  whipped  cream  or  the  beaten  whites 
of  3  eggs ;  turn  into  a  mould  and  serve  very 
cold. 

26. — Wilson  Tarts. 

To  the  juice  and  ^  the  grated  rind  of  i 
orange,  add  a  few  gratings  of  nutmeg,  ^  cup- 
ful of  apricot  brandy  and  the  beaten  yolks  of 
6  eggs;  stir  carefully  into  i  cupful  of  butter 
which  has  been  creamed  with  2  cupfuls  of 
sugar;  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  6  eggs 
and  bake  quickly  in  tart  moulds  lined  with 
puff- paste. 

27. — Mallorca  Cream. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  with  i  cupful  of 
sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  i  orange;  add 
to  I  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  cook  in  a  dou- 
ble boiler  until  thick.  Take  from  the  fire, 
add  Yn  box  of  gelatine  which  has  soaked  in 
y^  cupful  of  water,  strain  and  when  cool  add 
the  juice  of  4  oranges.  When  it  begins  to 
set  stir  in  i  pint  of  cream  whipped  and 
sweeten. 

89 


July 


28. — Orange  Soda. 
To  I  quart  of  carbonated  water,  add  i  cup- 
ful of  shaved  ice,  y^  cupful  of  orange  juice, 
j^  cupful  of  brandy,  i  tablespoonful  of 
curagoa  and  i  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
sugar ;  stir  for  a  moment,  strain  and  serve. 

29.— Stoke  Pagis  Pudding. 
Boil  the  rind  of  i  orange  very  soft  and 
beat  it  in  a  mortar,  adding  the  juice  grad- 
ually ;  add  ^  pound  butter,  i^  pound  sugar, 
2  rolled  macaroons  and  the  beaten  yolks  of 
6  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  one-half 
hour  in  a  dish  with  a  rim  of  puff- paste. 


30. — Mercedes  Sherbet. 

Boil  I  quart  of  water  with  i^  pounds  of 
sugar  and  the  thinly  cut  peel  of  2  oranges  and 
2  lemons  for  five  minutes.  When  the  syrup 
is  cold,  add  the  juice  of  4  oranges  and  2 
lemons,  strain,  freeze  and  pack  in  ice  for  two 
hours. 


31. — Cold  Chicken  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Chop  fine  and  drain  slightly  equal  quanti- 
ties of  ripe  tomato  and  peeled  orange ;   add 
90 


July 


minced  onion  to  equal  one-fourth  the  amount 
and  add  salt  to  taste.  Do  not  cook,  and 
serve  very  cold ;  garnish  the  dish  of  sliced 
cold  chicken  with  orange  slices  sprinkled  with 
minced  parsley. 


AUGUST. 


I — Catawba  Punch. 
To  the  juice  of  8  oranges  add  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  3  quarts  of  Catawba 
wine,  a  glass  of  brandy  and  i  cupful  of  sugar. 
Strain  and  let  stand  on  ice  for  several  hours, 
but  do  not  add  ice  directly. 


2. — Alexandra  Salad. 

Slice  equal  amounts  of  orange  pulp  and 

bananas,  add  raspberries  to  equal  one-third 

the  total  amount,  moisten  with  orange  juice 

sweetened  to  taste  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


3. — Hayward  Jelly. 

Soak  ^2   box  of  gelatine  in  y^   cupful  of 

cold  water  and  dissolve  in  i  cupful  of  boih'ng 

water.     Add    i    cupful   of  sugar,    i    pint   of 

Strained  orange  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of 

92 


August 


2  oranges ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved 

and  strain  into  a  mould. 


4.— Gold  Thread  Cake. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  the  white  of  i 
egg  with  ji/^  cupfuls  of  sugar  ;  add  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  i  cupful  of  milk 
and  2  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking-powder.  Bake  in  layers  and 
spread  with  any  preferred  orange  icing. 

5. — Spiced  Orange  Mint. 
For  each  glass  squeeze  the  juice  of  i  large 
orange,  add  a  few  drops  each  of  essence  of 
cloves  and  essence  of  peppermint,  3  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  enough  shaved  ice  to 
fill  a  tumbler.  Cover,  shake  until  the  ice  is 
nearly  dissolved  and  serve  with  straws. 

6. — Orange  Gelatine  Sauce. 

Boil  I  cupful  of  sugar  and  i  cupful  of  water 
for  ten  minutes,  add  i  teaspoonful  of  granu- 
lated gelatine  and  when  cold  strain  into  the 
juice  and  pulp  of  4  oranges,  the  juice  of  ^ 
lemon  and  j^  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract, 
93 


August 

Serve  cold  with  cold  puddings. — Miss  Jan^t 
M.  Hill. 

7. — Messina  Sherbet. 
Boil  I  quart  of  water  with  i  pound  of 
sugar  for  five  minutes.  When  cold,  add  i 
pint  of  strained  orange  juice  and  i  quart  of 
fresh  peaches  pressed  through  a  coarse  sieve. 
Stir  all  well  together  and  half  freeze;  then 
add  the  white  of  i  egg  beaten  stiif  with  2 
tablespoon fu Is  of  powdered  sugar  and  freeze 
very  hard. 

8.— Orange  Slip. 
Boil  I  cupful  of  orange  juice  with  i  cupful 
of  sugar ;  add  i  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch 
mixed  with  the  juice  of  i  lemon  and  cook 
until  thick.  Put  in  a  serving  dish,  cover 
with  meringue,  brown  slightly  and  serve  cold 
with  boiled  custard. 

9. — Nugget  Cake. 
Cream  3^  cupful  of  butter  with  2  cupfuls 
of  sugar;  add  4  eggs  beaten  without  sepa- 
rating,   I    cupful   of  lukewarm  water  and  3 
cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
94 


August 

baking-powder;  beat  well,  add  the  grated 
rind  and  the  diced  pulp  of  i  orange  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour. 

10. — Orange  Crab  Salad. 
Mix   equal    portions   of  crab  meat,  diced 
orange  pulp  and  celery  ;  marinate  with  French 
dressing    and   serve   on  lettuce  leaves   with 
mayonnaise. 

II. — Dundee  Pancakes. 

Sift  I  cupful  of  flour  with  i  salt-spoonful  of 
salt  and  i  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder ;  add 
4  beaten  eggs,  i  pint  of  milk  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  fry  on  a  griddle 
and  spread  each  cake  when  done  with  orange 
marmalade;  roll  up,  sift  sugar  over  the  cake 
and  serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

12. — Peach  and  Orange  Jelly. 
Mash  I  juicy  peach,  add  ^2  ounce  of  sugar 
and  let  stand  one-half  hour;  add  the  juice  of 
I  orange,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  i  lemon 
and  I  small  cupful  of  water;  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve,  add  i  cupful  of  orange-flower 
95 


August 

water,  i  cupful  of  Maraschino  and  i  box  of 
gelatine  whicli  has  been  dissolved  in  i  cupful 
of  water.  Strain  into  a  mould  and  keep  on 
ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

13. — Tropico    Sandwiches. 
Cut  sponge  cake  in  thin  slices,  spread  one- 
half  the  slices  with  orange  marmalade,  sprin- 
kle with  grated  cocoanut  and  press  the  re- 
maining slices  firmly  on  top. 

14. — Lamb's  Hearts  With  Orange 
Sauce. 

Wash  3  lambs*  hearts  and  cut  in  slices, 
dredge  with  flour  and  fry  in  butter  for  ten 
minutes ;  add  hot  water  to  nearly  cover  the 
meat,  i  slice  of  onion,  i  bay-leaf,  i  sliced 
sour  orange  and  i  spray  of  parsley.  Cook 
for  forty  minutes,  adding  water  if  needed ; 
remove  the  bay-leaf  and  parsley,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  serve 
on  toast,  or  with  points  of  puff-paste. 

15. — Orange  Whey. 

Scald  I  cupful  of  milk,  add  i  cupful  of  sour 
orange  juice  and   let  stand   five  minutes  or 
96 


August 

until  the  milk  separates.     Cool  the  whey  and 
serve  without  sugar  in  fevers. 

i6. — Chipped  Beef  With  Orange  Sauce. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  i^  pound  of 
chipped  beef  and  let  stand  ten  minutes  ;  drain 
and  heat  it  in  i  tablespoonful  of  hot  butter 
until  curled,  dust  with  i  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  add  i  cupful  of  orange  juice  and  stir 
until  thick.     Serve  on  hot  buttered  toast. 

17. — Pensacola  Cake. 
Cream  y2  pound  of  butter  with  i  pound  of 
sugar;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy  and 
beat  in  the  yolks  of  8  eggs ;  add  i  pound  of 
seeded  raisins,  i  pound  of  sifted  flour,  the 
beaten  whites  of  8  eggs  and  the  juice  and  the 
grated  rind  of  }^  a  large  orange.  Add  no 
baking-powder  or  soda. 

18. — Indiana  Marmalade. 
Peel  6  oranges  and  separate  the  sections, 
cut  6  lemons  in  thin  slices  without  peeling 
but  rejecting  the  ends,  peel  12  peaches  and 
12  pears  and  divide  into  eighths  coring  the 
pears,  shred  i  pineapple,  core,  peel  and 
97 


August 


quarter  2  quarts  of  crab-apples  measuring 
after  they  are  quartered.  Weigh  all  the  fruit 
together,  add  three-fourths  the  weight  of 
sugar  and  cook  gently  for  two  hours  after 
boiling  begins.  Stir  as  little  as  possible  and 
cool  before  sealing. 


19. — Beaudry  Pudding. 

Steep  }^  box  of  gelatine  in  i4  cupful  of 
cold  water;  make  a  syrup  with  i  cupful  of 
sugar  and  i  pint  of  orange  juice;  when  this 
boils  pour  it  into  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
stir  well  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick.  Add  the  soft  gelatine  and  strain  into 
a  basin  set  in  ice  water.  Beat  occasionally 
until  it  begins  to  stiffen,  then  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  4  eggs  and  stir  until  stiff  enough  to 
drop.  Have  moulds  lined  with  lady-fingers, 
fill  with  the  pudding  and  keep  on  ice  until 
served. 


20. — Orange  Cracker  Pie. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  i  cupful  of 

sugar;  add   the  juice   of  2   oranges  and  the 

grated   rind   of   i,  i    tablespoonful  of  butter 

and    I   cupful  of  boiling  water.     Cook  in  a 

98 


August 


double  boiler  with  2  lolkd  soda  crackers  and 
I  lablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  cold 
water.  When  thick  pour  into  a  baked  pie 
shell  and  cover  with  meringue. 

21. — Pomegranate  Sherbet. 

Peel  12  blood  oranges,  cut  them  in  halves 
across  the  sections,  remove  the  seeds  and 
press  out  the  juice  with  a  fruit  press  or  a 
potato  ricer.  Add  i  quart  of  water  and  i 
pint  of  sugar;  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved 
strain  all  into  a  freezer  and  freeze  hard. 
This  will  have  no  bitter  flavor  of  the  rind,  as 
blood  orange  rinds  have  a  most  disagreeable 
flavor. 

22. — Orange  Rice  Meringue. 
Boil  j^  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  in  13^ 
cupfuls  of  milk  with  sugar  to  taste,  i  bay- leaf 
and  the  thin  peel  of  i  lemon.  If  the  milk  is 
all  absorbed  before  the  rice  is  done,  add  milk 
or  water.  When  done  fill  a  border  mould 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  Melt  ^  ounce  of 
butter,  add  i  cupful  of  orange  marmalade,  ^ 
cupful  of  sweet  cream  and  the  beaten  yolks 
of  2  eggs ;  stir  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick, 


893.'?7Q 


August 

cool  and  put  in  the  center  of  the  rice  mould 
after  it  has  been  turned  into  a  serving  dish. 
Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  with  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  heap  on  the  mould,  brown 
slightly  and  serve  very  cold. 

23. — Glendale  Salad. 

Remove  the  seeds  from  i  cupful  of  white 
grapes,  cut  the  pulp  of  4  oranges  in  bits  and 
shred  a  small  pineapple;  add  ^  cupful  of 
sugar  dissolved  in  i/^  cupful  of  freshly  pressed 
grape  juice  and  serve  very  cold  in  orange 
shells  garnished  with  grape  leaves. 

24. — Finnan- Haddie  With  Orange 
Butter. 

Soak  finnan-haddie  for  one  hour  in  two 
changes  of  warm  water,  drain  well  and  fry 
in  butter  or  broil  over  slow  coals.  Melt  y^ 
cupful  of  butter,  stir  into  it  the  diced  pulp 
and  the  grated  rind  of  ^  an  orange ;  spread 
over  the  fish  and  serve  at  once. 

25. — Frozen  Orange  Souffle. 

Steep   y^    box  of  gelatine  in  %  cupful  of 
cold  water  until  soft,  then  dissolve  over  hot 
100 


August 


water.  Bring  i  cupful  of  water  and  2  cup- 
fuls  of  sugar  to  a  boil,  add  i  pint  of  orange 
juice  and  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  4  eggs  and  the  dissolved  gelatine. 
Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  i 
quart  of  whipped  cream ;  turn  into  a  freezer 
and  freeze  to  a  mush,  then  pack  in  ice  for 
two  hours. 


26. — Orange  Custard  Cake  Filling. 

Beat  3  eggs  with  lyi  cupfuls  of  sugar ;  add 
the  juice  of  3  oranges,  i  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, I  cupful  of  hot  water  and  i  teaspoonful 
of  corn-starch  mixed  with  a  little  orange  juice. 
Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly ;  use 
when  cool  for  cake  filling. 


27. — Orange  and  Pineapple  Tapioca. 

Soak  j^  pound  of  pearl  tapioca  all  night  in 
water  to  cover.  Boil  until  clear,  adding 
water  if  necessary.  When  clear,  add  i  cupful 
of  sugar,  the  juice  of  i  large  orange  and  i 
cupful  of  chopped  pineapple ;  stir  well  and 
set  away  to  cool.  When  partly  stiff,  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

101 


August 


28.     Orange  Puree. 

Boil  the  pulp  and  the  gnited  rind  of  32  ^n 
orange;  thicken  with  i  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
add  I  pint  of  milk  and  season  with  salt  and 
butter  or  with  sugar,  according  to  taste. 
Serve  hot  or  cold  in  bouillon  cups  with  i 
spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  each  cup. 

29. — Monos. 

Cut  strips  of  puff-paste  one  inch  wide  and 
six  inches  long,  bake  and  spreaii  with  orange 
marmalade ;  place  on  a  dish  in  log  cabin 
fashion  and  till  the  center  with  whipped  cream 
sweetened  with  syrup  from  the  marmalade. 


30. — Sicilian  Punch. 
Dissolve  2  cupfuls  of  sugar  in  i  cupful  of 
boiling  water;  cool  and  add  y2  cupful  of 
lemon  juice,  i  cupful  of  orange  juice  and  i 
quart  of  peach  pulp,  using  fresh  or  canned 
peaches.  Serve  ice  cold  in  glasses  or  freeze 
as  sherbet. 

31. — Palas. 

Melt   1J2   ounces  of  butter  in  }4  cupful  of 
boiling  milk  ;  add  j^  pound  flour,  the  juice 
102 


August 

and  the  grated  rind  of  3^  an  orange  and  sugar 
to  taste ;  stir  on  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  then 
remove  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs 
and  2  heaping  tablespoon fuls  of  blanched  and 
chopped  almonds.  Put  in  a  very  thin  layer 
in  pans  and  bake ;  when  done  cut  in  narrow 
strips.     Serve  with  tea  or  chocolate. 


SEPTEMBER. 


I.— Duck  Salad. 
Cut  into  cubes  the  meat  from  a  cold  duck, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  marinate 
with  a  dressing  made  with  3  portions  of  oil 
to  2  of  sour  orange  juice.  After  standing 
some  time  cirain  and  mix  with  ^  cupful  of 
diced  orange  pulp  and  yi  cupful  of  celery  to 
each  cupful  of  duck.  Garnish  with  slices  of 
unpeeled  oranges  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

2. — Clara  Salad  Dressing. 
Strain  the  juice  of  3  oranges  and  3  lemons, 
add  I  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  3^  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper  and 
I  wineglassful  of  tart,  white  wine.  Place  on 
ice  until  ready  to  use,  then  shake  in  a  bottle 
or  fruit  jar  until  frothy. 

3. — Orange  Barley-Water. 

Wash  I  tablespoonful  of  pearl  barley,  add 
104 


September 

3  lumps  of  cube  sugar  and  i  orange  cut  in 
thin  slices  without  peeling ;  pour  on  these  i 
quart  of  boiling  water,  cover  and  stand  for 
three  hours  in  a  warm  place ;  strain  and  use 
in  fevers. 

4. — Tampa  Cake. 
Cream  i  cupful  of  butter  with  i  cupful  of 
sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  i 
cupful  of  milk,  2  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with 
2  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  the 
grated  rind  of  i  orange  and  the  beaten  whites 
of  3  eggs.  Bake  in  layers  and  while  still 
warm  spread  with  one  cupful  of  orange  mar- 
malade pressed  through  a  sieve  and  mixed 
with  sherry  to  a  consistency  to  spread.  Ice 
the  top  and  sides  with  water  icing. 

5.— Huevo  Sherbet. 

Beat  4  eggs  with  4  pounds  of  sugar ;  add 
5  pints  of  water  and  the  grated  rind  of  4 
oranges.  Freeze  soft,  then  add  the  strained 
juice  of  4  oranges  and  2  lemons  and  finish 
freezing.     Pack  in  ice  for  two  hours. 

6. — Bordeaux  Tarts. 
Boil  the  peel  of  2  oranges  until  tender,  weigh 
105 


September 


it  and  pound  or  chop  fine  with  twice  the 
weight  in  sugar;  add  the  juice  of  2  oranges, 
the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  i  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  thick 
and  fill  baked  tart  shells. 

7. — Vegetarian  Orange  Jelly. 

Steep  the  grated  rind  of  3  oranges  in  the 
juice  of  6,  add  i  pint  of  water,  the  juice  of  2 
lemons  and  yi  pound  of  sugar ;  strain,  bring 
to  a  boil  and  thicken  with  i  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  corn-starch  mixed  with  cold  orange 
juice  or  water.  Cook  until  thick  and  pour 
into  a  mould.  When  cold  turn  onto  a  flat 
dish  and  garnish  with  orange  leaves. 

8. — Orange  Moselle  Cup. 

Dissolve  4  lumps  of  sugar  in  i  tablespoonful 
of  water,  add  i  pint  of  Moselle  wine,  i  pint 
of  orange  juice,  i  liqueur  glassful  of  rum,  and 
I  lime  and  i  orange  sliced  thin ;  add  i  large 
bunch  of  mint  leaves  and  let  stand  an  hour 
or  more.  When  serving  add  i  quart  of  soda 
water  and  a  lump  of  ice. 

9.— Shredded  Wheat  Biscuits  With 

Oranges. 
Cut   3  shredded  wheat  biscuits  in  slices 
106 


September 


across  the  ends.  Have  6  oranges  sliced  and 
sweetened  over  night  and  serve  for  breakfast 
with  the  biscuit  sHces  arranged  in  points  on 
each  plate. 

10.— Cold  Orange  Tapioca. 

Boil  2  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  tapioca 
in  I  pint  of  milk  for  twenty  minutes;  add 
the  yolk  of  i  egg  and  sugar  to  taste  and  cook 
five  minutes  longer.  Pour  into  a  mould  with 
alternate  layers  of  diced  orange  pulp,  having 
tapioca  at  the  top.  When  firm  remove  from 
the  mould,  cover  with  a  meringue  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 


II. — Regal  Salad. 
Dice  the  pulp  of  2  oranges,  peel  and  seed 
24  large  white  grapes,  slice  3  bananas  and 
take  the  meat  of  12  English  walnuts.  Ar- 
range without  previous  mixing  on  lettuce 
leaves  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

12. — Pina  Sherbet. 
Boil  for  twenty  minutes  i  pint  of  sugar,  i 
quart  of  water  and  i  pint  of  chopped  pine- 
apple.    When  cold,  add  i  gill  of  lemon  juice 
107 


September 

and   I  cupful   of  orange  juice   and   freeze. 
After  freezing  pack  for  two  hours. 

13. — Ravenna  Pie. 
Boil  3  cupfuls  of  milk  and  add  to  it  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  mixed  with  a 
little  cold  milk ;  let  it  boil  one  minute  then 
remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  the  grated  rind  of  i  orange 
and  y2  cupful  of  strained  orange  juice,  and 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  with  i  cupful  of 
sugar.  Pour  into  open  shell  of  puff-paste 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

14. — Orange  Cantaloupes. 
Remove  the  seeds  from  small,  ripe  canta- 
loupes and  fill  the  centers  with  diced  orange 
pulp  which  has  been  well  sweetened  and 
chilled.  If  wanted  for  breakfast  prepare  the 
oranges  over  night  but  do  not  add  to  the 
cantaloupes  until  just  before  serving. 

15. — Orange  Sauce  for  Game. 

While  the  duck  or  other  game  is  roasting  fry 

in  a  saucepan  for  five  minutes  i  tablespoon- 

ful  each  of  finely  chopped  onion  and  bacon. 

Add  the  strained  juice  of  i  large  orange,  4 

108 


September 

tablespoonfiils  of  port  wine,  the  drippings 
from  the  duck  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Keep  hot  without  boiUng,  skim  and  serve 
with  the  duck. 

i6. — Iced  Orangeade. 

Sweeten  to  taste  i  pint  of  strained  orange 
juice  and  the  juice  of  i  lemon;  just  before 
serving,  add  i  beaten  tgg  and  2  cupfuls  of 
shaved  ice.     Serve  with  straws. 

17. — Orange  Marmalade  Omelette. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  apricot  brandy,  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs  and  cook  in  an  omelette  pan 
until  firm.  Spread  half  of  the  omelette  with 
thin  orange  marmalade,  fold  over  the  other 
half  and  serve  hot.  If  desired  blazing  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  pour  i  tablespoonful  of  brandy 
in  the  dish  and  light  just  as  the  omelette  is 
served. 

18. — Fruit  Salad  With  Mayonnaise. 

Peel    and   divide  into  sections  i  seedless 
orange   and   i  tangerine;    shell   12  walnuts, 
take  the  seeds  from  24  muscat  grapes ;  shred 
109 


September 

I  medium-sized  piiieai)ple  and  slice  2  bananas. 
Mix  together  and  marinate  with  French  dress- 
ing. Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  chill  thor- 
oughly and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

19. — Plain  Orange  Cake. 
Beat  2  eggs  with  i  cupful  of  sugar,  add  i 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  ^  cupful  of 
milk  and  i}^  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  2 
level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Beat 
until  smooth,  stir  in  the  juice  and  the  grated 
rind  of  ^^  an  orange  and  bake  in  a  loaf  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

20. — Pomona  Frapp^. 
Boil  I  quart  of  water  with  i]/^  cupfuls  of 
sugar  for  twenty  minutes;  add  i  i)int  of 
strained  orange  juice,  i  quart  of  sweet  cider, 
^  cupful  of  lemon  juice,  cool,  and  freeze  to 
a  mush. — Miss  Fannie  M.  Farmer. 

21. — Albany  Jelly. 
To  the  juice  of  4  oranges  and  the  grated 
rind  of  2,  add  3  cupfuls  of  water,  ^  pound 
of  sugar  and  2  ounces  of  gelatine  which  has 
steeped  for  one  hour  in  i  cupful  of  water. 
Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  and  gelatine 
110 


September 

are  melted  and  the  liquid  is  lukewarm  ;  strain 
through  muslin  and  when  it  begins  to  stiffen, 
beat  with  a  wire  whisk  until  light  and  frothy 
and  pour  into  a  mould.  Serve  ice  cold  with 
custard. 

22. — Orange  Cream  Sauce. 

Rub  lo  lumps  of  sugar  on  the  rind  of  i 
large  orange  and  dissolve  them  in  the  strained 
juice  of  the  orange.  Melt  i  tablespoonful  of 
unsalted  butter,  add  i  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  cook  uiihout  browning  for  one  minute; 
add  I  cupful  of  thin  cream  and  the  orange 
syrup ;  stir  well  and  serve  hot. 

23. — Imperial  Orange  Pie. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  i  cui)ful  of 
sugar;  add  i  cupful  of  sweet  milk  stirred 
smooth  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  the 
juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  ^  an  orange  and 
1/2  tablespoonful  of  butter.  When  smooth, 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  bake  in 
a  lined  pie  tin  for  forty  minutes. 

24. — Orange  Dressing  for  Fruit  Salads. 

Strain  the  juice  of  6  large  oranges  and  2 
111 


September 

lemons,  add  i  salt-spoonful  of  grated  orange 
peel,  I  teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon  peel,  and 
8  ounces  of  sugar;  boil  for  five  minutes  and 
cool ;  when  cold,  add  i  teaspoonful  of  curagoa 
and  pour  over  any  fruit  salad. 

25. — Ponce-de-Leon  Punch. 

Peel  8  oranges  and  slice  very  thin,  reject- 
ing seeds ;  cover  with  i  quart  of  Madeira 
wine,  I  pint  of  brandy,  2  sherry  glassfuls  of 
rum,  I  pint  of  port  wine  and  the  juice  of  6 
lemons.  Keep  on  ice  for  two  days  ]  when 
ready  to  serve  strain  and  pour  over  a  large 
lump  of  ice  and  add  2  quarts  of  champagne. 

26. — Semana  Souffle. 
Boil  I  cupful  of  milk  with  i  tablespoonful 
of  butter ;  mix  i  cupful  of  flour  with  i  cupful 
of  hot  milk  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk  and 
butter,  stirring  until  it  is  clear  from  the  pan. 
When  cool,  add  the  yolks  of  8  eggs  one  at  a 
time,  6  tablespoon fuls  of  sugar  and  the  juice 
and  the  grated  rind  of  ^  an  orange ;  when 
smooth,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  8  eggs,  pour 
into  the  dish  it  is  to  be  served  from  and  bake 
thirty  minutes.  Serve  immediately. 
112 


September 

27. — Ligeros. 
Heat  I  cupful  of  milk,  add  2  ounces  of 
butter  and  stir  until  dissolved ;  add  i  table- 
spoonful  of  orange-flower  water  and  flour  to 
make  a  paste.  Beat  in  3  eggs  and  bake  in 
dropped  s|)Oonfuls  in  a  slow  oven.  WMien 
done,  cool  and  fill  with  orange  marmalade 
which  has  been  pressed  through  a  sieve  and 
added  to  an  equal  amount  of  stiff  whipped 
cream. 

28. — Panada  Griddlecakes. 
Moisten  2  cupfuls  of  bread  crumbs  with  ^ 
cupful  of  orange  juice  ;  add  i  teaspoonful  of 
grated  orange  rind,  2  cupfuls  of  sour  milk,  i 
cupful  of  flour,  I  beaten  egg  and  y^  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  When  well  mixed,  add  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  i  tablespoonful 
of  cold  water  and  cook  on  a  hot  griddle. 

29. — Orange  Marmalade  Frappe. 

Boil  I  quart  of  water  with  i  pint  of  sugar 
for  twenty  minutes ;  add  i  pint  of  orange 
juice  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons.  Chill,  add 
I  cupful  of  marmalade  and  freeze  soft.  Pack 
in  ice  for  two  hours. 

113 


September 

30. — Orange  Velvet. 

Rub  I  cupful  of  orange  marmalade  through 
a  sieve  and  add  i  beaten  egg ;  mix  i  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  with  j/^  cupful  of  milk  and 
cook  a  few  minutes  with  the  marmalade. 
Use  hot  or  cold  for  filling  bouchee  cases  or 
cream  puffs. 


OCTOBER. 


I.— Oak  Glen  Tarts. 

To  the  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  y^  an 
orange,  add  i^  cupfuls  of  sugar,  2  cupfuls 
of  grated  apple,  2  beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter  and  i  cupful  of  sweet 
cream.  Line  tart  moulds  with  puff-paste,  fill 
vvitli  the  mixture  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Have  tiny  oak  leaves  cut  out  of  paste  and 
baked  separately ;  put  one  on  each  tart  when 
done. 

2. — Orange  Salad  to  Serve  With  Game. 

Peel  4  tart  oranges  and  slice  thin  ;  sprinkle 
with  a  very  little  sugar,  and  pour  over  them 
I  tablespoonful  of  sherry  mixed  with  i  table- 
spoonful  of  yellow  Chartreuse  and  the  same 
amount  of  orange  juice.  Serve  very  cold  on 
heart  leaves  of  lettuce. 

3. — Orange  Marmalade  Crullers. 

Beat  4  eggs  with  i  cupful  of  sugar.     Add 
115 


Odoh 


er 


the  grated  rind  of  i  orange,  ^  a  grated  nut- 
meg, y^  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  i  gill  of 
sweet  milk  ;  stir  in  i  quart  of  flour  in  which 
has  been  sifted  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-pow- 
der, roll  thin  and  cut  in  rounds.  On  half  the 
pieces  put  i  coffee  spoonful  of  orange  mar- 
malade, moisten  the  edges  and  cover  with  the 
remaining  pieces;  press  the  edges  firmly  to- 
gether and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


4.— Moulded  Orange  and  Fig  Salad. 

Heat  I  pint  of  canned  pineapple  juice,  add 
2  lablespoonfuls  of  granulated  gelatine,  and 
y^  a  bay-leaf,  stir  until  dissolved ;  strain 
and  set  in  cold  water  until  it  begins  to  harden. 
Have  ready  i  cupful  of  diced  orange  pulp 
and  I  cupful  of  peeled  and  sliced  fresh  figs, 
put  a  layer  of  the  fruit  and  gelatine  at  the 
bottom  of  a  mould,  sprinkle  with  chopped 
Brazil  nuts  or  English  walnuts,  and  make  al- 
ternate layers  until  the  mould  is  full.  Serve 
with  fruit  dressing  on  lettuce  leaves. 


5.— Chestnut  Souffle  With  Orange 

Sauce. 
To   I   cupful  of  mashed  chestnuts,  add  i 
116 


October 


rounding  tablespounful  of  flour,  y^  cupful  of 
sugar  and  j^^  cupful  of  thin  cream;  cook  five 
minutes,  stirring  constantly;  then  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Turn  into  indi- 
vidual moulds  which  have  been  buttered  and 
dusted  with  sugar,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
and  bake  until  firm.  Orange  Sauce:  Beat 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  ^  cupful  of  sugar, 
add  I  cupful  of  orange  juice  and  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  grated  rind ;  stir  over  hot  water  until 
thick. 


6. — Orange  Cocktail  Sauce. 
For  each  oyster  or  clam  cocktail  take  i 
tablespoonful  of  the  diced  pulp  of  i  sour 
orange,  i  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  i 
teaspoonful  of  horseradish,  i  salt-spoonful  of 
salt,  I  salt-spoonful  of  grated  orange  peel,  and 
a  few  drops  of  tobasco  sauce.  Serve  very 
cold  in  cups  made  of  the  polished  peel  of  i 
orange. 


7. — Orange  and  Cocoanut  Candy. 

To  2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  add  y^  cupful  of 
orange  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  i  orange. 
Bring  to  a  boil  and  add  ^  cupful  of  grated 
117 


October 

cocoanut.  Let  it  boil  without  stirring  until 
a  drop  put  in  cold  water  will  form  a  soft  ball. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  set  in  a  cool  place 
until  nearly  cold ;  then  beat  until  it  is  thick, 
pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  cut  in  squares. 

8.— Model  Pudding. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  i^  cupfuls 
of  sugar;  add  ^  cupful  of  orange  juice,  i 
teaspoonful  of  grated  orange  rind,  i  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  I  cupful  of  chopped  apples, 
I  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  ^^  cupful  of 
sultana  raisins,  }i  cupful  of  chopped  pre- 
served orange  peel,  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Boil  in  a  buttered  mould  for 
three  hours  or  bake  for  two  hours.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce. 

9. — Marmalade  Mousse. 

Whip  I  pint  of  thick  cream,  stir  in  care- 
fully I  cupful  of  orange  marmalade  and  add 
sugar  if  required.  Put  in  a  mould  and  pack 
in  ice  and  salt  for  three  hours. 

10. — Orange  Cheesecakes. 
Blanch  }^   pound  of  almonds  and  beat  in 
a  mortar  with  orange- flower  water,  ]4,  pound 
118 


October 

of  powdered  sugar  and  i  pound  of  butter. 
Beat  tlie  yolks  of  lo  eggs  and  the  whites  of 
4;  pound  in  a  mortar  2  candied  oranges  and 
I  fresh  one  with  the  bitterness  boiled  out. 
When  these  are  soft  mix  all  the  ingredients 
and  bake  in  small  moulds. 

II. — Sunday  Frapp^. 
Cut  off  the  top  of  I  large  pineapple  and 
remove  the  pulp ;  cut  the  pulp  from  4  oranges 
and  add  to  the  pineapple,  sweeten  to  taste, 
put  in  a  glass  fruit  jar  and  bury  in  ice  and 
salt  for  two  hours.  Have  the  pineajjple  shell 
thoroughly  chilled  and  put  the  fruit  in  it  just 
before  serving. 

12. — Lady  Lee  Cream. 
Steep  the  grated  rind  of  i  orange  in  i  pint 
of  hot  cream  for  one  hour,  strain  and  add  i 
heiiping  teaspoonful  of  corn- starch  mixed 
with  2  tablespoon fuls  of  sugar.  Boil  until 
smooth  and  when  cold  pour  into  a  dish  lined 
with  sponge  cake  steeped  in  orange  juice. 

13. — Artichokes  With  Orange 
Mayonnaise. 
Boil  artichokes  for  a   half  hour  in  salted 
119 


October 


water;    drain   and   serve    hot   or   cold  with 
Fruit  Mayonnaise.     (See  June  4.) 

14. — Ceriso  Fritters. 

Boil  I  cupful  of  water,  2  ounces  of  butter, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the  grated  rind 
of  yi  an  orange  for  ten  minutes;  add  5 
ounces  of  flour  and  stir  until  smooth,  then 
remove  from  the  fire  and  add  5  eggs,  i  at 
a  time.  Roll  out  very  thin,  cut  in  rounds 
and  put  together  in  pairs  with  a  filling  of  stiff 
orange  marmalade ;  pinch  the  edges  together 
and  fry  in  deep  fat  until  brown. 

15. — Medley  Marmalade. 
Squeeze  the  juice  from  12  large  blood 
oranges;  boil  the  peels  of  12  yellow  oranges 
in  plenty  of  water  until  a  straw  will  pierce 
them,  drain,  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle 
scrape  out  all  the  pith,  leaving  the  yellow 
outside  which  is  to  be  cut  in  shreds  with 
scissors.  Weigh  the  juice  and  add  an  equal 
weight  of  sugar,  and  the  shredded  peel;  boil 
for  two  hours  and  put  in  glasses. 

16.— Oysters  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Scald  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  arrange 
120 


October 

them  on  buttered  toast  and  cover  with  un- 
sweetened orange  sauce. 

17. — Sw^eet  Chestnut  Croquettes  W^ith 
Orange  Sauce. 
Boil  I/3  cupful  of  sugar  in  J  cupful  of 
water  to  a  rich  syrup  and  add  to  2  cupful s 
of  mashed  chestnuts;  flavor  with  vanilla, 
add  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs.  When  cool  shape  into  croquettes,  roll 
in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.  Orange  Sauce  :  Beat  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  with  y2  cupful  of  sugar,  add  the 
juice  of  I  large  orange  and  stir  over  hot  water 
until  thick,  then  pour  into  the  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs  and  use  at  once. 

18. — Mandarin  Orange  Preserves. 

Weigh  50  Mandarin  oranges  and  boil  them 
until  tender  in  three  changes  of  water.  Cool 
enough  to  handle,  cut  a  circle  at  the  stem 
end  of  each  orange  and  remove  the  seeds  but 
not  the  pulp.  Drain  the  oranges  and  add  to 
them  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  and  to  each 
pound  of  sugar,  add  i  cupful  of  strained 
orange  juice.  Boil  the  oranges  slowly  in  this 
121 


October 

syrup  for  forty  minutes,  then  take  them  out 
and  reduce  the  syrup  until  it  ahiiost  candies ; 
pour  over  the  oranges  in  glasses  and  seal. 

ig. — Nugget  Jumbles. 
Cream  i  cupful  of  butler,  add  1]^,  cupfuls 
of  sugar,  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  the  juice 
and  the  grated  rind  of  ]/2  an  orange,  i  level 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sour  milk,  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs 
and  3)4  cupfuls  of  flour.  Drop  in  spoonfuls 
on  a  buiteied  tin  ;   bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


20. — Orange  and  Almond  Sandwiches. 

Chop  I  pickled  orange  very  fine  with  i 
cupful  of  blanched  almonds ;  spread  between 
slices  of  buttered  bread. 

21. — Orange  Baby  Cream. 
Dissolve  2  cui)fuls  of  sugar  in  i^  cupful  of 
strained  orange  juice,  add  2  lablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  boil  until  a  drop  will  harden  in 
water;  pour  into  a  buttered  tin  and  com- 
mence at  once  to  fold  the  edges  into  the  cen- 
ter of  the  tin.  As  soon  as  it  can  be  handled 
pull  until  hard  and  cut  in  bars  or  in  small 
bits. 

122 


October 


22. — Orange  and  Cranberry  Ice. 

Cover  2  quarts  of  cranberries  with  water 
and  cook  twenty  minutes;  mash  and  strain 
and  add  an  equal  measure  of  strained  orange 
juice;  boil  2  pounds  of  sugar  with  i  pint  of 
water  until  dissolved,  add  to  the  fruit  juice, 
cool  and  freeze.     Pack  in  ice  for  two  hours. 

23. — Pork  Tenderloin  With  Orange 
Sauce. 

Brown  slices  of  tenderloin  in  a  hot  oven, 
then  cover  them  with  water  and  orange  juice 
in  equal  parts ;  simmer  until  done,  thicken 
the  gravy  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  serve  garnished  with  orange  slices  which 
have  been  sprinkled  with  minced  parsley  and 
paprika.  Cook  in  a  granite  or  porcelain 
lined  pan. 

24.— Orange  Jelly  Without  Gelatine. 

Peel  and  slice  a  citron  melon,  add  i  cupful 
of  water  and*  boil  until  soft ;  press  out  the 
juice  while  hot.  To  the  juice,  add  an  equal 
measure  of  orange  juice,  that  from  fruit  not 
wholly  ripe  is  preferred.  To  each  pint  of 
mixed  juice  allow  i  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  the 
123 


October 


juice  twenty  minutes,  skimming  well ;  have 
the  sugar  very  hot,  add  it  to  the  juice,  stir 
until  dissolved  and  boil  two  minutes.  Strain 
through  cheese-cloth  into  glasses  and  do  not 
cover  until  cold. 

25. — Mrs.  Black's  Orange  Cake. 

Cream  i  cupful  of  butter  with  3  cupfiils  of 
sugar;  add  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  i  cupful  of 
milk,  4  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  the  beaten 
whites  of  5  eggs.  Bake  in  layers  and  when 
done  spread  with  the  following  jelly  :  Bring 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  oranges  to  a 
boil  with  I  cui)fLil  of  sugar;  place  in  a  double 
boiler,  add  2  beaten  eggs  and  stir  until  thick 
as  custard. 


26.— Orange  Chicken  Salad. 
Mix  equal  parts  of  sliced  celery  and  cold 
cooked  chicken  ;  add  broken  English  walnut 
meats  to  equal  one-fourth  the  amount  of  cel- 
ery and  chicken,  a  few  peeled  and  seeded 
muscat  grapes  and  French  dressing  to  moisten. 
Have  ready  the  diced  pulp  of  sour  oranges; 
lay  a  few  lettuce  leaves  on  each  plate,  and  i 
124 


October 

tablespoonful  of  orange;  put  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  the  chicken  and  celery  on  the  let- 
tuce and  cover  with  mayonnaise. 

27. — Rich  Orange  Pie. 
Beat  2  eggs  with  i  tablespoonful  of  white 
sugar,  add  i  tablespoonful  of  milk,  i  table- 
spoonful of  table  syrup  (not  maple)  and  the 
juice  and  tlie  grated  rind  of  yi  an  orange. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick,  then  put 
in  a  lined  pie  tin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

28. — Orange  Figs. 
Dissolve  I  cupful  of  sugar  in  i  cupful  of 
water,  pour  over  i  pound  of  dried  figs  which 
have  been  separated  from  one  another  and 
bring  to  a  boil ;  set  aside  for  a  day  or  two, 
then  drain  from  the  syrup.  Make  a  slit  in 
each  fig  and  stuff  with  orange  marmalade; 
arrange  tiie  figs  on  a  waxed  tin,  sift  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  put  in  a  quick  oven  to  glaze. 

29. — Cocoanut  Orange  Icing. 

.Boil   I   cupful  of  sugar  with  j^  cupful  of 

water  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball;   pour  the 

boiling  syrup  over  tlie  beaten  white  of  i  egg 

125 


October 

and  stir  into  it  the  mashed  pulp  of  i  orange 
and  I  cupful  of  grated  cocoanut.  Use  be- 
tween layers  of  cake  or  for  the  top  of  a  loaf 
cake. 

30. — Hominy  Fritters  With  Orange 
Sauce. 

Beat  2  eggs  and  add  to  2  cupfuls  of  hot 
boiled  hominy;  add  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  cold  milk  to  make 
a  drop  batter.  Fry  in  small  spoonfuls  in  hot 
fat ;  drain  and  serve  with  the  following  sauce  : 
Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  }^  cupful  of 
sugar,  pour  over  it  ii4  cupfuls  of  boiling 
orange  juice  and  the  grated  peel  of  i  orange; 
stir  until  foamy  and  serve  at  once. 

31. — Spiced  Liver  With  Oranges. 

Scald  I  pound  of  sliced  liver  and  then  fry 
in  bacon  drippings.  When  brown  on  both 
sides  put  the  liver  in  a  saucepan  with  4  cloves, 
I  bay-leaf,  i  blade  of  mace,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  i  peeled  sliced  orange;  cover 
with  boiling  water  and  cook  thirty  minutes; 
when  done  remove  the  whole  spices  and  add 
corn-starch  to  thicken  the  gravy.  Serve  on 
toast  and  garnish  with  orange  slices. 
126 


NOVEMBER. 


I. — Orange  Bread  Pudding. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  ^  cupful  of 
sugar,  add  the  juice  and  the  grated  rind 
of  ^  an  orange  and  i  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs  over  which  has  been  poured  a  pint 
of  boiling  milk ;  mix  well  and  bake  until  a 
light  brown.  Cover  with  meringue  made 
with  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  ^  cupful  of 
sugar;  brown  slightly  and  serve  hot. 

2. — Frozen  Oranges  to  Serve  With 
Game. 

Select  smooth,  even-sized  oranges  and 
polish  them  well.  Cut  off  the  top  third 
of  each  one  and  remove  all  pulp  and  fibre. 
Keep  the  peels  on  ice  until  wanted.  Sepa- 
rate the  orange  pulp  from  fibre  and  seeds; 
to  each  quart  of  pulp  and  juice,  add  i  cupful 
of  water  and  sweeten  slightly.  Freeze  until 
firm   but   not   hard,   fill   the  peels  and  pack 


November 

them  in  a  can  burieci  in  ice  and  salt  until 
ready  to  serve.  They  should  be  packed  at 
least  two  hours. 

3. — Shrimp  and  Orange  Salad. 
Have   equal   measures  of   shrimps,    diced 
orange  pulp  and  sliced  celery;  marinate  with 
French   dressing,  arrange  on   lettuce  leaves 
and  mask  with  mayonnaise. 

4. — Buttered  Chestnuts  With  Orange. 

Shell,  blanch  and  boil  i  pound  of  chest- 
nuts until  soft ;  about  fifteen  minutes.  Drain 
and  pour  over  them  }^  cupful  of  melted  but- 
ter mixed  with  ^  cupful  of  orange  juice  and 
salt  to  taste. 

5. — Parliament  Pudding. 
Cream  i  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  ^ 
cup  of  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs, 
I  cupful  of  fine  bread  crumbs  which  have 
been  soaked  in  milk,  and  the  juice  and  the 
grated  rind  of  }^  an  orange;  stir  this  until 
very  smooth,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs.  Have  a  pudding  mould  thickly  but- 
tered and  dusted  with  dry  crumbs,  line  with 
macaroons  wliich  have  been  moistened  with 
128 


November 

orange  juice;  put  in  a  layer  of  the  batter, 
then  a  layer  of  sponge  cake  spread  with 
orange  marmalade  and  alternate  the  layers 
until  the  mould  is  full,  having  batter  at  the 
top.  Cover  and  steam  for  three-quarters  of 
an  hour,  unmould  carefully  and  serve  with 
hard  sauce. 

6. — Chestnut  Boulettes  With  Orange 
Sauce. 

Mix  I  cupful  of  mashed  chestnuts,  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet 
cream,  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  j^  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  I  teaspoonful  of  orange  juice  and 
a  pinch  of  grated  orange  rind.  Stir  over  the 
fire  until  well  blended ;  when  cool,  fold  in  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  form  into  small 
balls,  roll  in  crumbs,  dip  in  egg  then  roll 
again  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve 
with  Orange  Sauce  :  Have  i  cupful  of 
thick  cream  sauce  slightly  sweetened  and 
just  before  serving  stir  in  the  juice  of  i  large 
orange  and  i  teaspoonful  of  grated  rind ; 
keep  hot  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 

7. — Turkey  and  Orange  Salad. 
Mix  equal  parts  of  sliced  celery  and  cold 
129 


November 


cooked  turkey;  add  broken  English  walnut 
meats  to  equal  one-fourth  the  amount  of 
celery  and  turkey,  and  moisten  with  French 
dressing.  Have  ready  the  diced  pulp  of 
several  sour  oranges.  Lay  a  few  lettuce 
leaves  on  each  plate,  i  tablespoonful  of  the 
diced  orange,  i  tablespoonful  of  the  chicken 
and  celery,  and  cover  with  mayonnaise. 


8. — Quail  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Skin  6  quails  and  cover  the  breast  of  each 
with  thin  slices  of  bacon ;  place  in  a  pan 
with  I  cupful  of  hot  water  and  i  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove  the  quail,  add  the  diced 
pulp  of  I  orange  to  the  gravy  and  cook  two 
minutes  longer;  season  to  taste  with  salt 
and  paprika,  and  thicken  slightly  with  flour. 
Serve  the  sauce  very  hot  in  a  separate  dish. 


9. — King's  Pudding. 

Dilute  14  cupful  of  orange  marmalade  with 
the  juice  of  i  lemon  and  add  the  grated  rind 
of  the  lemon.  Chop  y^  pound  of  suet,  mix 
with  ^2  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  jA  cupful  of 
sugar,  I  salt-spoonful  of  salt  and  3  beaten 
130 


November 

eggs.  Put  this  ill  a  buttered  mould  in  alter- 
nate layers  with  the  marmalade  and  steam 
four  hours. 

10. — Orange  Celery  Salad. 

Fringe  12  two-inch  pieces  of  celery  and 
put  to  crisp  in  ice-water  to  which  lemon 
slices  have  been  added.  Have  an  equal 
measure  of  slices  of  sour  oranges,  dry  the 
celery,  add  to  the  oranges  and  season  with 
French  dressing.  Serve  with  game. — Miss 
Janet  M.  Hill. 

II. — Orange  Bouillon. 
To  I  quart  of  strained  orange  juice,  add  i 
tablespoonful  of  arrowroot  and  cook  until 
clear.  Cool  and  add  i  tablespoonful  of 
orange-flower  water  and  i  tablespoonful  of 
cura^oa.  Sweeten  slightly  if  desired  and 
serve  very  cold  in  bouillon  cups  at  luncheon. 

12.— Jelly  Salad. 
Steep   i^  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  ys  o(  a. 
cupful  of  water,  add  ^  of  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water  and  i  cup  of  sugar  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved; pour  over  i  cupful  of  diced  orange 
131 


November 

pulp  and  add  the  juice  of  i  lemon  ;  set  in  a 
pan  of  ice-water  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
then  pour  into  small  moulds  and  set  on  ice 
until  firm.  When  ready  to  serve  dip  each 
mould  into  boiling  water  and  invert  on  lettuce 
leaves.     Serve  with  jelly  salad  dressing. 

13. — Jelly  Salad  Dressing. 
Put  I  pint  of  orange  juice  in  a  saucepan, 
add  the  juice  of  i  lemon,  i  level  teaspoonful 
of  arrowroot  moistened  with  cold  water,  sugar 
to  taste  and  a  bit  of  stick  cinnamon  if  liked  ; 
cook  until  smooth  and  clear,  remove  the  cin- 
namon and  serve  cold. 

14. — Roast  Pork  With  Florida  Sauce. 

Dice  the  pulp  of  6  sour  oranges,  dust  with 
flour,  sprinkle  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes;  remove  from  the 
fire  and  when  slightly  cool  stir  in  4  beaten 
eggs;  pour  into  a  pan  where  pork  is  roasting 
and  cook  until  firm,  about  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  like  roast  beef  and  Yorkshire  Pudding. 

15. — German  Orange  Fritters. 
Cut  stale  bread   in   rounds  or  any  fancy 
shape,  fry  a  light  brown  in  hot  lard  and  pour 
132 


November 

over  theiii  liot  syrup  of  orange  juice  and  sugar 
heated  together  but  not  boiled.  Dust  with 
powdered  sugar  and  serve  immediately. 

i6. — Bahama  Sauce  for  Cold  Game. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  stir  in  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  i  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
I  salt-spoonful  of  grated  orange  peel,  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  sharp  vinegar  and  the  juice  of  i 
sour  orange.  Add  the  orange  juice  slowly, 
beating  hard.     Serve  cold. 

17. — Macaroni  and  Orange  Pudding. 

Boil  4  ounces  of  macaroni  in  i  pint  of 
orange  juice  until  tender ;  beat  6  eggs  with 
^  pound  of  sugar,  add  i  cupful  of  milk  and 
put  in  a  baking  dish  with  the  macaroni  and 
orange  juice.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 
cook  in  the  oven  to  set  the  custard.  Serve 
hot  with  Orange  Grafton  Pudding  Sauce. 
(See  December  8.) 

18. — Cabbage  and  Orange  Salad. 

Shred  4  cupfuls  of  cabbage,  dice  the  pulp 
of  2  oranges  and  grate  i  teaspoonful  of  orange 
peel ;  mix  altogether  and  serve  with  Clear 
Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

133 


November 

ig. — Winter  Fruit  Jelly. 

Cut  up  2  figs,  6  dates,  J^  cupful  of  seeded 
raisins  and  yz  cupful  of  English  walnut 
meats;  sleep  them  two  hours  in  the  juice  of 

1  orange,  drain,  add  the  diced  pulp  of  i 
orange  and  cover  with  i  pint  of  orange 
jelly.  (See  August  3.)  Serve  cold  with 
cold  boiled  custard. 

20. — Transparent  Marmalade. 

Soak  the  peel  of  unripe  oranges  all  night 
in  salted  water  to  cover,  then  boil  in  three 
changes  of  fresh  water  until  they  are  very 
tender;  cut  in  very  fine  strips  and  add  to  the 
pulp  which  has  been  freed  from  seeds.  To 
every  pound  of  fruit,  add  i)^  pounds  of  sugar 
and  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  clear ; 
stir  carefully  and  when  it  is  cold  put  in 
glasses. 

21. — Esm^  Shortcake. 

Rub  ^  cupful  of  lard,  or  lard  and  butter, 
into  I  quart  of  flour  which  has  been  sifted 
with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder ;  beat 

2  eggs,  stir  in  2  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk  and  add 
to  the  flour;  knead  well  and  roll  out  in  two 

134 


November 

portions  one-half  inch  thick.  Place  one  layer 
in  a  buttered  tin,  cover  with  diced  orange 
pulp,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  moisten  the 
edge  all  around ;  put  the  second  sheet  of 
dough  on  top  and  press  the  edges  well  to- 
gether ;  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven. 

22. — Sausages  With  Orange  Sauce. 

Prick  sausages  with  a  fork  and  boil  them 
for  twenty  minutes;  drain  and  brown  in  the 
oven  or  in  a  frying-pan.  Boil  i  cupful  of 
water  with  i  cupful  of  sugar  for  five  minutes, 
add  4  oranges  which  have  been  peeled  and 
cut  in  one-fourth  inch  slices  and  cook  them 
gently  for  fifteen  minutes  ;  arrange  the  oranges 
in  the  center  of  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  a  little 
grated  orange  peel  and  surround  with  the 
browned  sausages. 

23. — Orange  Peel  Fudge. 
Boil  the  peel  of  i  orange  in  salt  water  for 
one-half  hour,  then  in  fresh  water  until  all 
salt  and  bitterness  are  extracted ;  drain  and 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Boil  2  cupfuls  of  brown 
sugar  with  yi  cupful  of  sweet  milk  until  it 
135 


November 

will  spin  a  thread,  pour  into  a  buttered  dish, 
add  the  orange  peel  and  stir  to  a  cream. 

24. — Rice  and  Orange  Stuffing  for  Duck. 
W' ash  I  cupful  of  rice  and  boil  it  for  fifteen 
minutes  in  salted  water  ;  drain,  add  the  diced 
pulp  of  2  oranges  and  the  grated  rind  of  i, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  use  for  stuffing 
a  tame  duck. 

25. — Orange  Baba. 

Procure  a  loaf  of  Baba  (Wine  Cake)  and 
pour  over  it  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  2  cup- 
fuls  of  sugar  with  ly^  cupfuls  of  orange  juice 
and  I  teaspoonful  of  grated  orange  peel  for 
five  minutes. 

26. — Turkey  Fritters  With  Oranges. 

Cut  cold  turkey  in  thick  pieces,  marinate 
them  with  orange  juice  for  one  hour;  drain, 
dip  in  fritter  batter  to  which  i  teaspoonful  of 
grated  orange  peel  has  been  added  and  saute 
in  butter  or  turkey  drippings.  When  done 
remove  from  the  pan  and  add  butter  if  neces- 
sary to  make  j^  cui)ful  in  the  pan  ;  add  }^ 
cupful  of  flour,  I  cupful  of  turkey  gravy, 
136 


November 


stock  or  water,  and  the  juice  of  2  oranges. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  serve  in  a  sepa- 
rate dish. 

27. — Cranberry  and  Orange  Sauce. 

Cover  the  peel  of  i  orange  with  cold  water, 
heat  slowly  and  boil  until  tender ;  then  scrape 
out  the  white  part  and  cut  the  yellow  in  thin 
strips  with  scissors.  Simmer  ly^  cupfuls  of 
raisins  until  tender,  add  the  juice  of  the 
orange,  the  shredded  peel,  i  quart  of  cran- 
berries and  enough  water  or  orange  juice  to 
make  the  amount  of  liquid  equal  i  cupful. 
Cover  and  cook  ten  minutes,  or  until  the 
cranberries  are  done,  then  add  2  cupfuls  of 
sugar  and  boil  until  it  jellies. 


28. — Orange  Mince  Meat. 

Boil  3  thin-skinned  oranges  in  i  quart  of 
water  until  the  water  is  reduced  one-half, 
chop  the  cooked  oranges  very  fine,  rejecting 
all  seeds;  chop  i  pound  of  seeded  raisins, 
wash  and  dry  2  pounds  of  dried  currants, 
chop  2  pounds  of  suet  very  fine  and  mix  all 
together  with  i  ounce  of  ground  spices,  i 
cupful  of  brandy,  i  cupful  of  port  wine  and 
137 


November 


the  water  the  oranges  were  boiled  in.  Do 
not  cook  until  the  mince  meat  is  in  the  pies. 
Bake  with  two  crusts. 

29. — Brazilian  Salad. 

Marinate  i  cupful  of  shredded  Brazil  nuts 
and  I  cupful  of  peeled  and  diced  Bartlett 
pears  with  orange  juice.  At  the  end  of  one 
hour,  add  i  cupful  of  diced  orange  pulp  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise. 

30. — Quince  and  Orange  Marmalade. 
Pare,  core  and  slice  quinces,  cook  skins, 
cores  and  seeds  in  water  to  barely  cover  ; 
when  soft  strain  this  water,  add  to  the  sliced 
quinces  and  boil  until  they  can  be  mashed  to 
a  pulp.  To  every  3  pounds  of  fruit,  add  the 
juice  of  3  oranges  and  2  pounds  of  sugar; 
stir  to  a  smooth  paste  and  boil  ten  minutes 
longer,  stirring  constantly.  Put  into  small 
glasses  and  cover  when  cold. 


DECEMBER. 


I. — Orange  Fig  Pudding. 

Chop  }(  pound  dried  figs,  add  2  cupfuls 
of  bread  crumbs,  i  cupful  of  brown  sugar, 
i^  pound  chopped  suet,  2  beaten  eggs,  the 
juice  of  2  oranges  and  grated  rind  of  i,  i 
dessert-spoonful  of  molasses,  j4  a  grated  nut- 
meg, and  I  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  steam  for  three  hours. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. 


2. — Orange  Fruit  Cake. 

Cream  i  pound  of  butter  and  i  pound  of 
sugar,  add  ten  beaten  eggs,  i  pound  of  flour 
and  the  juice  of  2  oranges  and  the  grated 
peel  of  I  and  beat  all  until  very  light.  Flour 
2  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  ^  pound  of  cit- 
ron and  ^2  pound  of  candied  orange  peel 
chopped  or  cut  in  bits;  add  this  to  the  batter 
and  bake  in  two  pans  for  four  hours. 
139 


December 

3. — Punch  Jelly. 
Make  a  clear,  unseasoned  jelly  from  4 
calves'  feet ;  add  to  it  2  pounds  of  sugar,  the 
juice  of  4  oranges  and  the  rind  of  i,  the  juice 
of  6  lemons  and  the  rind  of  4,  ^  nutmeg,  12 
cloves,  I  stick  of  cinnamon,  i  small  cupful 
of  strong  green  tea,  i  pint  of  rum,  ^  pint  of 
brandy  and  i  glassful  of  arrack.  Stir  these 
well  together,  add  6  whites  of  eggs  and  2 
whole  eggs  beaten  with  a  little  sherry  and 
water  and  whisk  the  punch  until  it  begins  to 
simmer;  draw  to  the  back  of  the  stove  and 
let  stand  ten  minutes.  Strain  the  jelly  through 
flannel,  repeating  if  necessary,  and  when  it  is 
clear  pour  it  into  a  mould. 

4. — Orange  Cream  Toast. 
Beat  2  eggs,  add  j/^  cupful  of  scalded 
cream  and  return  to  the  fire ;  stir  until  thick, 
then  add  i^  cupful  of  orange  juice  with  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Mix  well  and  pour 
over  hot  toast,  which  is  buttered  or  not,  ac- 
cording to  taste. 

5. — Orange  and  Squash  Custard. 

Mix  y^  cupful  of  steamed  and  sifted  squash 
140 


December 


with  I  cupful  of  orange  juice  and  i  salt- 
spoonful  of  grated  orange  peel ;  beat  4  eggs 
with  ^  cupful  of  sugar,  or  more  if  required  ; 
add  to  the  squash  and  steam  in  one  large  or 
several  small  moulds  which  have  been  but- 
tered and  dusted  with  sugar. 

6. — Orange  Lady  Cake. 

Cream  ]4  cupful  of  butter  with  1]^  cup- 
fuls  of  sugar;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  I  orange  with  warm  water  to  make  i  cup- 
ful, 2j/^  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  twice  before 
measuring  and  then  sifted  with  2  level  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  mix  thoroughly 
and  add  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Bake 
forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
when  cool  ice  the  top  and  sides. 

7. — Orange  Raisin  Pie. 

Boil  for  twenty  minutes  i  cupful  of  seeded 
raisins,  i  cupful  of  water,  i  cupful  of  sugar 
and  I  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  water.  Just  before 
taking  from  the  fire,  add  the  juice  and  the 
grated  rind  of  y^  an  orange.  Fill  a  lined 
pie  tin  with  this,  add  cross-bars  of  paste  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

141 


December 

8. — Orange  Grafton  Pudding  Sauce. 

Beat  2  eggs  with  4  ounces  of  sugar,  add 
i^  cupful  of  sherry  and  ^  cupful  of  orange 
juice;  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  beat 
with  an  tgg  beater  until  thick  and  smooth. 

g. — Orange  Cream  Charlotte. 

Soak  Yi  box  of  gelatine  in  y^  cupful  of 
water ;  add  y^  cupful  of  boiling  water,  1  cup- 
ful of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  i  lemon  and 
strain.  When  cool,  add  i  cupful  of  orange 
juice  and  pulp  and  set  in  a  pan  of  ice- water. 
Line  a  mould  with  orange  sections  and  when 
the  jelly  begins  to  stiffen  beat  into  it  i  pint 
of  thick  cream  whipped  very  stiff;  beat  all 
together  until  it  is  hard  enough  to  hold  its 
shape  and  pour  into  the  mould.  One  hour 
will  harden  it  enough  to  serve. 

ID. — Orange  Bisque  Ice-Cream. 
Whip  2  quarts  of  rich  cream  with  ^  cup- 
ful of  sugar  until  very  stiff,  put  in  a  freezer 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  one  hour.  Steep 
12  macaroons  in  the  juice  of  3  large  oranges 
and  add  to  the  partly  frozen  cream  ;  turn  the 
dasher  to  mix  thorons:lily  and  add  sugar  if 
142 


December 

required.  If  the  ice-cream  is  not  firm  turn 
until  it  is  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  two 
hours. 

II. — Orange  and  Cheese  Salad. 
Mash  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  add 
I  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  ^  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  3^  teaspoonful  of  grated  orange  rind, 
I  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
i^  pound  grated  cheese  and  the  juice  of  i 
sour  orange.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
orange  mayonnaise.     (See  June  4.) 

12. — Boiled  Chicken  With  Chestnut  and 
Orange  Sauce. 
Boil  I  chicken  until  tender  and  while  it  is 
boiling  steam  i  pint  of  blanched  chestnuts. 
There  should  be  i  pint  of  liquor  when  the 
chicken  is  done ;  add  to  this  the  mashed 
chestnuts  and  the  diced  pulp  of  2  oranges 
with  I  teaspoonful  of  grated  orange  j)eel ; 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  boil  un- 
til the  orange  pulp  is  cooked  and  pour  over 
the  chicken. 

13. — Orange  Corn-starch  Jumbles. 
Cream  %  cupful  of  butter  with  i  cupful  of 


143 


December 

sugar ;  add  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  and  J^ 
cupful  of  corn-starch  mixed  with  ]4,  cupful 
of  orange  juice;  add  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough  and  cut  in  rings.  Sprinkle  the  tops 
with  finely  chopped  preserved  orange  peel 
mixed  with  a  little  sugar  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

14.— Marmalade  Roly  Poly. 

Sift  together  i  pint  of  flour,  i  salt-spoonful 
of  salt,  I  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder.  Rub  into  this  2 
tal)lespoonfuls  of  butter  and  add  sweet  milk 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Turn  onto  a  floured 
board,  roll  out  in  an  oblong  strip  and  spread 
with  orange  marmalade.  Roll  up,  pinching 
the  ends  well  together  and  steam  for  forty 
minutes.     Serve  with  hard  or  liquid  sauce. 

15. — Sardine  and  Orange  Sandwiches. 

Mince  i  pickled  orange  (see  April  13)  very 
fine,  rub  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs 
through  a  sieve  and  mince  the  whites,  free  i 
large  box  of  sardines  from  skin  and  bones  and 
add  to  the  orange  and  eggs  with  oil  or  melted 
butter  to  make  of  a  consistency  to  spread. 
Have  thin  slices  of  whole  wheat  bread  spread 
144 


December 

with  butter,  spread   yi  with  the  sardine  mix- 
ture and  cover  with  buttered  bread. 

i6. — Orange  and  Apple  Marmalade. 

SHce  sound  apples  without  paring  or  coring 
and  cook  in  water  to  cover  until  done  j  strain 
through  a  jelly  bag,  pressing  out  all  the  juice ; 
add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  and  cook  until 
it  jellies.  Have  an  equal  quantity  of  orange 
pulp  with  one-half  the  peel  included,  cook 
until  tender  with  as  little  water  as  possible 
and  add  to  the  apple  juice;  boil  until  it  jel- 
lies again  and  put  in  small  glasses. 

17. — Ginger  Sherbet. 
Boil  I  pound  of  sugar  and  i  cupful  of  water 
to  a  thread  ;  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  juice 
of  5  oranges  and  i  lemon,  cool,  strain  and 
freeze.  Cut  4  ounces  of  preserved  ginger  in 
small  pieces  and  add  with  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  ginger  syrup  to  the  frozen  sherbet ;  turn 
the  freezer  to  mix  thoroughly,  remove  the 
dasher  and  pack  for  2  hours. 

i8. — Orange  Butter  Sauce. 

Cream   i    tablespoonful   of  butter  with   i 

tablespoonful  of  flour ;  stir  into  i  cupful  of 

H5 


December 


boiling  water  and  wlien  thick  stir  in  ^  cup- 
ful of  butler  and  i  cupful  of  strained  orange 
juice.  Serve  at  once  with  fish  or  chicken. 
This  sauce  may  be  sweetened  and  used  with 
fritters  or  puddings. 

19.— Stewed  Pigeons  With  Oranges. 

Cut  3  pigeons  in  pieces  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes  in  butter  without  browning ;  add  i 
pint  of  stock  or  thin  gravy,  i  sliced,  sour 
orange  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook 
thirty  minutes,  thicken  the  gravy  if  necessary 
and  serve  with  a  boarder  of  toast  points  alter- 
nated with  quartered  orange  slices. 

20. — Noodles  With  Oranges. 
Beat  I  egg,  add  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough  ;  knead, 
roll  as  thin  as  possible  and  let  stand  twenty 
minutes  ;  roll  up,  cut  in  strips  and  cook  twenty 
minutes  in  boiling  salted  water.  Arrange 
one-half  the  cooked  noodles  on  a  buttered 
dish,  spread  with  diced  orange  pulj)  sweetened 
to  taste,  sprinkle  with  i  teaspoonful  of  grated 
orange  peel  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter. 
Cover  with  the  remaining  noodles,  sprinkle 
146 


December 


liberally  with  brown  sugar  and  add  bits  of 
butter.  Put  in  a  hot  oven  to  melt  the  sugar 
and  serve  hot. 

21. — Oyster  and  Orange  Salad. 

Scald  I  pint  of  oysters  and  strain  the 
liquor;  add  sour  orange  juice  to  make  i 
cupful  and  bring  to  a  boil ;  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  3  eggs  and  stir  until  thick,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  cool  quickly.  Chop 
the  oysters,  have  an  equal  amount  of  cut 
celery  and  i  tablespoonful  of  grated  orange 
peel,  mix  and  marinate  with  French  dress- 
ing. Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  mask  with 
the  cooked  dressing  and  garnish  with  slices 
of  sour  oranges. 

22. — Orange  Madeleines. 

Bake  sponge  cake  in  square  sheets  about 
two  inches  thick ;  when  cold  cut  in  squares, 
split  and  fill  with  marmalade.  Ice  the  tops 
and  sides  with  orange  icing. 

23. — Orange  Posset. 

Steep  the  grated   rind  of  1  orange  and  i 

lemon   in   the  juice  of  2   oranges;    squeeze 

through  muslin  and  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of 

147 


December 


sugar,  I  tablespoonful  of  brandy,  a  grating 
of  nutmeg,  3  cupfuls  of  boiling  milk  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  blanched  and  chopped  al- 
monds. Froth  with  an  egg  whisk  or  by  pour- 
ing from  a  height,  and  serve  hot.  This  can 
also  be  served  ice  cold  in  bouillon  cups  at 
luncheon. 

24. — Orange  Rice  Pudding. 
Boil  ^  cupful  of  rice  until  tender  in  i 
quart  of  milk,  or  use  3  cupfuls  of  cold  rice ; 
add  ^2  cupful  of  sugar,  j^  cupful  of  chopped 
suet,  the  juice  and  grated  peel  of  i  large 
orange  or  2  small  ones,  j^  pound  of  candied 
orange  peel  cut  fine,  and  3  beaten  eggs. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  boil  2  hours  in  a  tube 
mould. 

25. — Orange  Champagne  Ice. 
Boil  I  quart  of  water  for  five  minutes  with 
I  pound  sugar;  when  cold,  add  the  juice  of 
3  oranges  and  i  lemon  and  strain  into  a 
freezer.  Freeze  until  thick,  then  add  i  pint 
of  champagne  and  finish  freezing. 

26. — Quick  Orange  Marmalade. 

Grate   the  rind   of  12   oranges,   press   the 
148 


December 


pulp  through  a  coarse  sieve,  adding  i  gill  of 
water  to  4  pounds  of  fruit ;  bring  the  pulp 
and  grated  raid  to  a  boil,  add  i  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  pound  of  fiuit  weighed  whole 
and  boil  a  half  hour.     Seal  in  small  glasses. 

27. — Orange  and  Apple  Salad. 
Core,  peel  and  slice  4  large  apples,  dice 
the  pulp  of  6  oranges;  place  in  alternate 
layers  with  powdered  sugar  on  each  layer ; 
add  I  glass  of  sherry  and  the  juice  of  i 
lemon  and  serve  very  cold. 

28. — Orange  Marshmallow  Compote. 

Mix  equal  quantities  of  diced  orange  pulp 
and  marshmallovvs  cut  in  eighths.  Add 
chopped  pecans  to  equal  one-fourth  the  whole 
amount  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  orange  syrup, 
or  the  syrup  from  soft  marmalade  and  serve 
cold  with  whipped  cream. 

29. — Gasport  Custard. 

This  requires  no  milk  nor  cream.     Steep 

the  thinly  cut  peel  of  i  orange  in  i  cupful  of 

cold  water  until  the  flavor  is  extracted.     Add 

I  cupful  of  orange  juice  and   ^   cupful  of 

149 


December 


sugar,  strain  into  the  beaten  yolks  of  8  eggs 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  custard 
thickens.     Serve  cold. 

30.— Hamburg  Tart  Filling. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  j^  cupful  of 
sugar;  add  the  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of 
^  an  orange  and  cook  over  hot  water  until 
thick.  Stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs; 
cook  for  three  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire 
and  fill  tart  shells. 

31. — Harvard  Pancakes. 

Melt  }4  cupful  of  butter  in  i  pint  of  warm 
milk ;  add  i  pint  of  flour,  2  beaten  eggs,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  i 
orange.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle,  butter  and 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar ;  squeeze  a  few 
drops  of  orange  juice  on  each  pancake  when 
piling  them  up. 


150 


INDEX 


Albany  Jelly,  i  io. 
Alexandra  Salad,  92. 
American  Salad,  80. 
Apple  and  Orange  Tarts, 

74- 

Apple  Sherbet,  26. 
Arizona  Fritters,  61. 
Artichokes  With  Orange 

Mayonnaise,  1 19. 
Asparagus     Tips     With 

Orange  Sauce,  63. 

Bahama    Sauce    for 

Cold  Game,  133. 
Baked  Oranges  for  Colds, 

8. 
Baked     Orange     Souffle 

Pudding,  30. 
Barbada  Jumbles,  81. 
Beaudry  Pudding,  98. 
Bernard  Punch,  85. 
Blue  Ribbon  Salad,  40. 
Boiled     Chicken     With 

Chestnut  and  Orange 

Sauce,  143. 
Boiled  Ham  With  Cherry 

Orange  Sauce,  81. 
Boiled  Orange  Pudding, 

30- 
Bombe  Malta,  64. 
Bondeau  Custard,  7. 
Bordeaux  Tarts,  105. 


Brain  Cutlets  With  Or- 
ange Butter  Sauce,  31. 

Brazilian  Salad,  138. 

Breast  of  Lamb  With 
Orange  Stuffing,  72. 

Bridge  Club  Soup,  62. 

Buttered  Chestnuts  With 
Orange,  128. 

Cabbage  and  Orange 
Salad,  133, 

Cabinet  Pudding,  28. 

Calf's  Liver  With  Or- 
anges, 28. 

California    Orange    Ice, 

43- 

California  Orange  Pud- 
ding, 17. 

Candied  Orange  Peel,  19. 

Caramel  Salad,  3. 

Carrots  W^ith  Orange 
Sauce,  37. 

Catawba  Punch,  92. 

Ceriso  Fritters,  120. 

Cherry  Cup,  79. 

Chestnut  Boulettes  With 
Orange  Sauce,  129. 

Chicken  Souffle  With 
Orange  Sauce,  116. 

Chico  Puffs,  64. 

Chipped  Beef  With  Or- 
ange Sauce,  97. 


151 


Index 


Clara     Salad     Dressing, 

104. 
Cocoanut  Orange   Icing, 

125. 
Cold    Chicken  With  Or- 
ange Sauce,  90. 
Cold     Orange     Cream 

Sauce,  42. 
Cold     Orange    Tapioca, 

107. 
Cornelia  Cake,  2>t,. 
Cranberry    and    Orange 

Sauce,  137. 
Currant  and  Orange  Jam, 

79- 

Delicate  Pudding,  81. 
Duarte  Salad,  66, 
Duck  Salad,  104. 
Dundee  Pancakes,  95. 

Easter  Eggs,  47. 
Engracia  Cake,  84. 
Esme  Shortcake,  134. 

Fiesta  Salad,  68. 

Figueroa  Tarts,  47. 

Fillet  of  Veal  With  Or- 
anges, 86, 

Fillet  of  Venison,  70, 

Finnan-Haddie  With  Or- 
ange Butter,  100. 

Fish  Cakes  With  Orange 
Sauce,  19, 

Florida  Trifle,  88. 

Fosgate  Salad,  7, 

Frozen  Macedoine  of 
Fruit,  54. 


Frozen     Maraschino 

Punch,  36. 
Frozen  Oranges  to  Serve 

W^ith  Game,  127. 
Frozen    Orange    Souffle, 

100, 
Frozen    Victoria    Punch, 

61, 
Fruit  Mayonnaise,  86. 
Fruit  Salad  Dressing,  45. 
Fruit   Salad   With   May 

onnaise,  109, 

Gasport  Custard,  149, 
Genoa  Cake,  75. 
German  Orange  Fritters, 

132, 
Germea  Mould,  80, 
Ginger  Sherbet,  145. 
Glasgow  Cakes,  60, 
Glazed    Orange    Wafers, 

25- 

Glendale  Salad,  100. 
Gold  Bar  Cake,  14, 
Gold  Thread  Cake,  93. 
Golden  Cream,  50, 
Goldeniod  Cake,  37, 
Granite  Camilla,  72. 
Green    Pease    With    Or- 
ange Sauce,  32, 

Hamburg  Steak  With 
Orange  Sauck,  16, 

Hamburg  Tart  Filling, 
150, 

Harvard  Pancakes,  150. 

Hayvk^ard  Jelly,  92. 


152 


Index 


Hominy    Fritters    With 

Orange  Sauce,  126. 
Hot  Orange  Souflle,  49. 
Hot  Orange  Tapioca,  13. 
Huevo  Sherbet,  105. 

Iced  Orangeade,  109. 
Imperial  Orange  Pie,  1 1 1. 
Indiana  Marmalade,  97. 

Jelly  Salad,  131. 
Jelly  Salad  Dressing,  132. 
Jellied  Prunes,  4. 
Juliet  Pudding,  35. 

Kentucky  Orange  Pie, 

42. 
King's  Pudding,  130. 

Lady  Lee  Cream,  119. 

Lady  Pudding,  10. 

Lamb  Chops  With  Or- 
ange Sauce,  32. 

Lamb's  Hearts  With  Or- 
ange Sauce,  96. 

Lentil  Croquettes  With 
Orange  Sauce,  48. 

Ligeros,  113. 

Louisville  Salad,  20. 

Lucile  Short  Cake,  68, 

Macaroni  and  Orange 
Pudding,  133. 

Macaroni  With  Orange 
Sauce,  67. 

Mallorca  Cream,  89. 

Mandarin  Orange  Pre- 
serves, 121. 


Marmalade  Devons,  58. 
Marmalade     Dumplings, 

H- 

Marmalade  Mousse,  118. 
Marmalade  Popovers,  55. 
Marmalade    Roly    Poly, 

144. 
Marmalade    Without 

Water,  8. 
Maraschino,  i 
Marseilles  Tarts,  84. 
Medley  Marmalade,  1 20. 
Melton  Pudding,  63. 
Mercedes  Sherbet,  90. 
Messenger's  Pudding,  63. 
Messina  Sherbet,  94. 
Minced  Orange  Pie,  5. 
Mint  Sherbet,  83. 
Model  Pudding,  1 18. 
Monos,  102. 
Montecito  Oranges,  48. 
Mosela  Pudding,  73. 
Moulded  Orange  and  Fig 

Salad,  1 16. 
Mrs.     Black's     Orange 

Cake,   124. 

New  Year's  Pudding,  i. 

Noodles  With  Oranges, 
146. 

Nugget  Cake,  94. 

Nugget  Jumbles,  122. 

Nut  Loaf  With  Orange 
Sauce,  II. 

Nut  Pudding  With  Or- 
ange Sauce,  21. 

Oak  Glen  Tarts 


153 


Index 


Onions  With  Orange 
Sauce,  25. 

Orangeade,  51. 

Orange  and  Almond 
Sandwiches,  122. 

Orange  and  Apple  Mar- 
malade, 145. 

Orange  and  Apple  Pie,  53. 

Orange  and  Apple  Pud- 
ding, 3. 

Orange  and  Apple  Salad, 
149. 

Orange  Arrowroot  Jelly, 
21. 

Orange  and  Banana  Com- 
pote, 33. 

Orange  and  Bread  Ome- 
lette, 32. 

Orange  and  Cocoanut 
Candy,  117. 

Orange  and  Cheese 
Salad,  143. 

Orange  and  Cranberry 
Ice,  123. 

Orange  and  Gooseberry 
Preserves,  83. 

Orange  and  Lemon  Ice, 

52. 

Orange  and  Lemon  Mar- 
malade, 49. 

Orange  and  Peanut 
Sandwiches,  36. 

Orange  and  Pineapple 
Tapioca,  10 1. 

Orange  and  Raisin  Jam, 

34. 
Orange     and      Rhubarb 
Marmalade,  70. 


Orange  and  Squash  Cus- 
tard, 140. 

Orange  Baba,  136. 

Orange  Baby  Cream,  122. 

Orange  Barley  Water, 
104. 

Orange  Baskets,  54. 

Orange  Biscuits,  35, 

Orange  Bisque  Ice- 
Cream,  142. 

Orange  Bouillon,  13 1. 

Orange    Brandy    Shrub, 

43- 
Orange   Bread  Pudding, 

127. 
Orange    Bread-Crumb 

Pudding,  55. 
Orange  Butter,  17. 
Orange     Butter     Sauce, 

145- 
Orange  Cake  With  Milk 

Icing,  20, 
Orange  Cantaloupes,  108. 
Orange  Catsup,  84. 
Orange     Celery     Salad, 

131- 

Orange  Champagne  Ice, 

148. 
Orange    Charlotte    With 

Lady-Fingers,  t,^,. 
Orange  Clieese  Balls,  76. 
Orange     Cheesecakes, 

118. 
Orange    Chicken    Salad, 

124. 
Orange   Cocktail   Sauce, 

117. 
Orange  Compote,  23. 


Index 


Orange  Cordial,  1 6. 
Orange        Corn-starch 

Jumbles,  143. 
Orange  Corn-starch  Pie, 

34. 

Orange  Crab  Salad,  95. 

Orange  Cracker  Pie,  98. 

Orange  Cracker  Pud- 
ding, 41. 

Orange  Cream  Cake  Fill- 
ing, 41. 

Orange  Cream  Charlotte, 
142. 

Orange  Cream  Cups,  76. 

Orange  Cream  Sauce, 
III. 

Orange  Cream  Toast, 
140. 

Orange  Croutons,  31. 

Orange    Curd    Pudding, 

56- 
Orange  Custard,  27. 
Orange     Custard     Cake 

Filling,   loi. 
Orange      Dressing      for 

Fruit  Salads,   iii. 
Orange  Figs,  125. 
Orange      Fig     Pudding, 

139. 

Orange  Float,  58. 
Orange  Flummery,  22. 
Orange  Foam  Sauce,  13. 
Orange  Fool,  37, 
Orange  Frappe,  57. 
Orange  Fritters,  4. 
Orange  Fruit  Cake,  139. 
Orange    Gelatine    Ice- 
Cream,  79. 


Orange  Gelatine  Sauce, 

93. 

Orange  Gingerbread,  6. 

Orange  Grafton  Pudding 
Sauce,  142, 

Orange  Granite,  51. 

Orange  Honey,  51, 

Orange  Ice  Sout^e,  88. 

Orange  Ice  With  Me- 
ringue, 47. 

Orange  Icing,  67. 

Orange  Jam,  5. 

Orange  Jelly  Without 
Gelatine,  123. 

Orange  Jumbles,  29. 

Orange  Lady  Cake,  141. 

Orange  Loaves,  22. 

Orange  Lovewell,  82. 

Orange  Madeleines,  147. 

Orange  Marmalade  Crul- 
lers, 115. 

Orange  Marmalade 
Frappe,  113. 

Orange  Marmalade  Om- 
elette, 109, 

Orange  Marmalade 
Sweethearts,  20. 

Orange  Marshmallow 
Compote,  149. 

Orange  Meringue  Pie,  82. 

Orange  Mince  Meat,  137. 

Orange  Mint  Cuji,  65. 

Orange  Moselle  Cup,  106. 

Orange  Omelette,  67. 

Orange  Parfait,  5. 

Orange  Paste,  77. 

Orange  Peel  Buns,  18. 

Orange  Peel  Fudge,  135. 


Index 


Orange  Peel  Paste,  lOo 
Orange  Pickles,  44. 
Orange  Posset,  147. 
Orange  Potato  Pie,  28. 
Orange  Puree,  102. 
Orange  Raisin  Pie,  141. 
Orange  Rice  Cups,  69. 
Orange  Rice  Custard,  30. 
Orange   Rice   Meringue, 

99. 
Orange    Rice    Pudding, 

148. 
Orange  Roll,  60. 
Orange  Roly  Poly,  24. 
Orange  Royals,  27, 
Orange   Sabayon  Sauce, 

58. 
Orange    Salad   to    Serve 

Willi  Game,  115. 
Orange  Sauce  for  Game, 

108. 
Orange  Slip,  94. 
Orange  Snowballs,  36. 
Orange    Snow    Pudding, 

'5- 

Orange  Soda,  90. 

Orange  Soup,  18. 

Orange  Sponge,  6. 

Orange  Syrup,  24. 

Orange  Syrup  for  Drink- 
ing, 58. 

Orange  Tea,  12. 

Orange  Tea  Biscuits,  77. 

Orange  Torys,  12. 

Orange  Velvet,  1 14. 

Orange  Washington 
Cake,  23. 

Orange  Whey,  96. 


Orange  Whips,  31. 

Orange  Wine  With  Rai- 
sins, 8. 

Ormond  Cake,  46 

Oyster  and  Orange  Salad, 
147. 

Oysters  Willi  Orange 
Sauce,   120. 

Pacific  Pudding,  75. 

Palas,  102, 

Panada     Griddlecakes, 

Parliament  Pudding,  128. 
Parsons  Ice-Cream,  10. 
Peach  and  Orange  Jelly, 

Peanut  Timbales  With 
Orange  Sauce,  45, 

Pensacola  Cake,  97. 

Pina  Sherbet,  107, 

Pineapple  and  Orange 
Cake  Filling,  55. 

Pineapple  Mousse  With 
Orange  Jelly,  39. 

Pink  Sherbet,  66. 

Plain  Orange  Cake,  no. 

Pomegranate        Sherbet, 

99- 
Pomona  Frappe,  no. 
Ponce-de-Leon    Punch, 

n2. 
Pork    Tenderloin    With 

Orange  Sauce,  123. 
Prepared   Orange  Juice, 

35- 
Preserved  Orange  blow- 
ers, 40. 


156 


Index 


Preserved  Orange  Teel, 
15. 

Punch    ii    la    Cardinal 

Richelieu,  71. 
Punch  Jelly,  140. 


Quail  With  Orange 
Sauce,  130. 

Quick  Orange  Marma- 
lade, 148. 

Quince  and  Orange  Mar- 
malade, 138. 


Ravenna  Pie,  108. 

Raymond  Salad,  61. 

Regal  Salad,  107. 

Renato  Syllabubs,  85. 

Republic  Cream,  46. 

Rhubarb  and  Orange 
Jam,  65. 

Rhubarb  and  Orange 
Sherbet,  53. 

Rice  and  Marmalade 
Cream,  43. 

Rice  and  Orange  Stuff- 
ing for  Duck,  136. 

Rice  Fritters  AYith  Or- 
ange Sauce,  12. 

Rich  Orange  Pie,  125. 

Rivera  Salad,  29. 

Roast  Pork  With  Florida 
Sauce,  132. 

Rosal  Punch,  87. 

Ruby  Salad,  70. 

Salpicon  of  Fruit,  66. 


San  Ysidro  Pudding,  56. 
Sardine     and    Orange 

Sandwiches,   144, 
Sausages    With    Orange 

Sauce,  135. 
Scalloped  Chicken,  38. 
Scalloped  Turkey,  I. 
Semana  Souffle,  1 1 2. 
Sheraton  Cake,  3. 
Shredded  Wheat  Biscuits 

With  Oranges,  106. 
Shrimp     and    Orange 

Salad,  128. 
SiciHan  Punch,  102. 
Sliced  Bananas  With  Or- 
ange Dressing,  74. 
Sliced  Orange  Cake  Fill- 
ing, 87. 
Sliced  Orange  Tarts,  57. 
Smiley  Sorbet,  26. 
Sour  Orange   Preserves, 

2. 
Spiced    Liver  With    Or- 
anges, 126. 
Spiced  Orange  Mint,  93. 
Stewed  Cucumbers  With 

Orange  Sauce,  69. 
Stewed     Kidneys    With 

Oranges,  40. 
Stewed     Pigeons     With 

Oranges,   146. 
Stoke  Pagis  Pudding,  90. 
Strawberry  Oranges,  73. 
Sultana  Pudding,  54. 
Sunday  Frappe,  1 19. 
Sweet     Cliestnut     Cro- 
(|uettes    With    Orange 
Sauce,  12 

157 


Index 


Sweetbreads    With    Or- 
ange, 59. 

Tampa  Cake,  105. 
Tangerines  Glaces,  76. 
Tangerine  Jelly,  44. 
Tapioca  Jelly,  73. 
Tongue    Braised    in   Or- 
ange Sauce,  9, 
Transparent  Marmalade, 

134. 

Tropical  Salad,  86. 
Tropico  Sandwiches,  96, 
Turkey     and     Orange 

Salad,   129. 
Turkey    Fritters    With 

Oranges,  136. 


Tutli-Frutti  Jelly,  50. 

Veal  Cutlets  With 
Orange  Sauce,  53. 

Vegetarian  Orange  Jelly, 
106. 

Velvet  Cream,  62. 

Volusia  Cake,  9. 

Waikiki  Shortcake, 

44. 

Wentworth  Salad,  16. 
Westmoreland  Pie,  59. 
Wilson  Tarts,  89. 
Winter  Fruit  Jelly,  134. 
Winter  Salad,  1 1. 


i^AR  9        198? 


^.ffs^'fsms 


rr>S!»« 


