.0- 


«7        '^i.     .- 


>^, 


.<&> 


O'^ 


^^< 


.{5°^ 


vOvt 


O^      '^  »  ,  1  "  ^     aO 


0^    ,»' 


L'.  ^^ 


v^ 


^6' 
A  COOK  BOOK, 


EDITED  BY  THE 


Ladies  of  Plymouth  Church, 


DeS      M.OINES,    JOWA. 


\^: 


"  All  the  labor  of  man  is  for  his  mouth, 
j^  And  yet  the  appetite  is  not  filled." 


■Solomon. 


^     .       .  "  What  say  you  to  a  piece  of  beef  and  mustard?" 

/\\      I  — Shakspeare, 


DES  MOINES: 

MILLS  A  OOMPANT,   PBINTER8   AND  FtTBLIBHSRS. 
1876. 


/ 

o 


v 


K<^^ 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  eighteen  hundred  and  seventy-six, 

By    mills    &    COMPANY, 
In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington, 


PRINTED  AND  STEREOTYPEB 

BY   MILLS  &  COMPANY, 

DES  MOINES,  IOWA. 


TO  THE  MEMORY  OF 

Miss    Jennie     M..    Chase. 

THE   DEAE   GIBL  WHO  PKEPABED  A   LAKGE   PART   OF   THE  MANUSCRIPT  OF  THIS  VOLUME, 

AND   WHOSE   LAST   LIFE-WORK   WAS   FOR   IT;    WHO    WAS    EARLY   CALLED   FROM 

A  CHEERFUL,  LOVIKG,  UNSELFISH   SEHVIOF.  IN   THE   HOME,  THE  OIE- 

OLE    OF    FRIENDSHIP    AND      THE    CHURCH,     AND    WHO    NOW 

SERVES   WITH    THE    MINISTERING    HOSTS   OF   GOD  ; 

THIS  PAGE, 

LINKING   HEB   NAME   WITH   A   WORK   SO    MUCH   HEB   OWN, 

IS  AFFECTIONATELY  INSCRIBED 

BT    THOSE    WHO     HAVE      SHARED     THE     LABOR. 


?f(s^i<SCs^. 


Si 

II  ROMETHEUS  stole  fire  from  the  Celestials,  so  the  tra- 
dition tells  us,  and  brought  it  down  to  mortals.     He  has 
long  had  the  credit  of  doing  it  because  of  the  great  pity 
■'fO  he  felt  for  the  wretched  condition  of  primitive  men,  who,  in 
y;\. utter  savagery,  devoured  their  grains,  flesh  and  fish  in  the 
natural    way,   unconverted   into   grateful   dishes  by  the  pro- 
cesses of  roasting,  baking  or  boiling. 

But  it  is  time  for  this  memorable  conceit,  so  complimentary  to 
Prometheus,  and  very  likely  originated  by  him  for  the  sake  of 
effect,  to  be  thoroughly  exploded,  Jupiter  saw  through  the  trick  at 
the  time,  as  is  clear  from  the  rough  way  in  which  he  handled  the 
thief. 

The  undoubted  fact  is  that  the  sly  old  fellow  was  looking  out 
for  himself  and  his  own  enjoyment  in  the  whole  transaction,  car- 
ing no  more  for  man  than  demagogues  care  for  the  "dear  people." 
He,  like  other  inhabitants  of  Olympus,  was  much  in  the  habit  of 
walking  to  and  fro  in  the  earth  and  taking  a  place  in  human  feasts. 
At  the  festivals  of  the  gods,  which  were  very  near  together  and 
lasted  a  long  time,  there  was  always  a  grand  display  of  good  cook- 
ing. The  gods  and  goddesses  of  mythology  were  great  epicures. 
Raw  meats  were  not  in  favor  with  them,  and  the  cultivated  taste 
of  Prometheus  rebelled  when  he  had  set  before  him  in  mundane 
banquets,  joints  of  pork,  beef  and  mutton  which  had  never  pass- 
ed through  the  fire. 


VI  '  PREFACE. 

Imagine  a  dainty  feeder  from  the  higher  world,  eating  whole 
wheat  without  gravy,  or  tearing  the  uncooked  flesh  from  a  pheas- 
ant's breast  to  get  at  the  wish-bone  to  break  v/ith  some  comely 
daughter  of  Hellas!  It  was  for  the  sake  of  providing  more 
toothsome  morsels  for  himself,  when  he  should  come  down  for 
further  junketings  with  the  brave  men  and  fair  women  of  Asia 
Minor  and  the  ^gean  Islands,  that  he  stole  the  fire.  The  larceny 
was  in  the  interest  of  the  culinary  art.  Since  the  adv^ent  of  fire, 
cooking  has  been  one  of  the  industries  and  fine  arts  of  the  world. 
The  great  quest  ion,  "what  shall  we  eat?"  which  has  alvva^^s  engaged 
the  attention  and  stimulated  the  efforts  of  humanity,  has  hardly 
surpassed  in  interest  or  importance,  that  other  question,  "now 
shall  we  cook  what  we  eat?"  By  what  ingenious  manipulations 
shall  the  many  materials  which  enter  into  that  generous  compound 
known  as  "good  living,"  be  so  combined  that  the  best  ends  of 
taste  and  nourishment  may  be  secured?  It  is  not  enough  that  the 
nutritive  qualities  of  food  be  retained,  while,  in  the  cooking,  all 
that  can  please  the  taste  is  driven  off.  So  this  question  involves 
not  only  eating,  but  eating  "with  enjoyment.  Good  food  must  not 
be  repulsive  to  the  palate.  There  can  be  no  more  fruitful  source 
of  domestic  discord  than  the  perpetual  appearance  on  the  family 
table  of  unpalatable  viands.  Many  a  man  has  first  begun  to  sus- 
pect that  his  wife  was  not  his  true  affinity,  when  he  has  had  his 
taste  disgusted  by  ill-cooked  meats,  insipid  soups  and  spoiled  veg- 
etables.     Sour  bread  is  closely  related  to  sour  temper. 

A  man  of  ancient  Sybaris,  a  city  noted  for  luxury,  is  said  to 
have  once  tasted  the  black  broth  of  the  Lacedaemonians.  He  de- 
clared after  it,  that  he  could  not  wonder  the  Spartans  were  so 
brave  in  battle,  for  the  reason  that  the  pains  of  death,  however 
dreadful,  were  as  nothing  when  compared  with  the  misery  of  liv- 
ing on  such  execrable  food. 

The  economic  question,  too,  is  of  importance.  People  of  lim- 
ited means  must  cook,  and  they  must  avoid  excessive  outlay.  All 
the  income  cannot  go  to  the  filling  and  boiling  of  the  pot.  The 
burning  down  of  a  house  to  roast  a  pig,  after  the  Chinese  method, 
is  too  costly,  in  a  country  where  houses  are  expensive.    How  then 


PREFACE.  '  vn 

shall  we  cook  so  that  we  can  afford  to  eat,  becomes  a  topic  for 
careful  study.  It  is  possible  to  prepare  food  that  shall  be  like  the 
savory  meat  of  Isaac,  full  of  nutriment  and  pleasant  to  the  taste, 
from  materials  that  cost  but  little.  The  strength  of  the  ox  is  not 
all  concentrated  in  choice  roasts  nor  porter-house  steaks.  Some 
of  the  undiscovered  possibilities  of  the  culinary  art  lie  in  the  di- 
rection of  furnishing  a  good  meal  from  the  smallest  quantity  of 
inexpensive  material,  as  well  as  in  the  other  direction,  of  turning 
to  its  best  account  the  very  choicest  of  material. 

The  man  who  can  cook  well  and  economically,  and  can  teach 
the  art,  is  a  benefactor  to  his  kind,  and  deserves  a  statue  of  brass, 
if  not  a  canonization. 

The  woman  who  can  do  it,  holds  the  key  of  the  home  citadel. 
She  commands  the  situation.  Her  husband  rejoices  in  her,  and 
her  children,  rosy,  strong  and  fair,  live,  with  good  digestion,  to 
bless  her  memory  for  her  good  cooking,  as  well  as  for  her  other 
virtues. 

Good  cooking  is  a  valuable  ally  of  godliness.  Dyspepsia  is  the 
stronghold  of  depravity.  An  abused  and  impaired  stomach  is  but 
another  name  for  the  eclipse  of  faith.  Pernicious  moods,  harm- 
ful introspections  and  horrible  bug-bears  of  suspicion  and  doubt 
are  the  portion  of  him  who  has  been  so  unfortunate  as  to  damage 
his  most  important  vital  function  by  feeding  on  food  spoiled  for 
human  uses,  in  the  cooking,  and  made  fit  only  for  creatures  with 
the  digestive  apparatus  of  the  ostrich. 

This  little  book  is  an  outgrowth  from  the  experience  of  many 
who  wait  upon  the  domestic  altars  of  our  city.  It  gives  the 
results  of  countless  experiments  in  the  direction  of  prudent 
wholesome,  healthful,  enjoyable  cooking.  It  is  hoped  and  be- 
lieved that  it  will  give  help  in  many  ways  to  those  who  shall 
consult  it, — that  it  will  be  the  chart  to  guide  many  a  young 
house-keeper  serenely  through  the  most  dangerous  passages 
of  domestic  life, — that  it  will  be  the  "Open  Sesame"  to  many 
a  culinary  mystery, — that  it  will  check  the  growing  tendency 
to  seek  divorce,  by  removing  one  of  the  causes  of  matrimonial 
infelicity;  so,  in  all  ways  fulfilling  the  mission  of  a  good  book. 


VIII  PREFACE. 

Milton  well  says,  "As  good  almost  kill  a  man  as  kill  a  good 
book;  wlio  kills  a  man  kills  a  reasonable  creature,  God's  image; 
but  he  who  destroys  a  good  book,  kills  reason  itself." 

The  ladies  who  have  compiled  this  manual  have  thought  it  not 
best  to  include  alcoholic  condiments,  believing  it  better  to  lack  a 
certain  piquancy  in  a  few  articles  of  food,  than  to  bring  to  the 
home  table  anything  which  may  so  easily  work  mischief. 

The  aim  of  the  book  will  be  realized  if  it  shall  become  a  minis- 
ter of  help  to  many  known  and  unknown  patrons,  to  whom  its 
compilers  would  say  in  the  renowned  classic  of  Jefferson,  "May 
you  live  long  and  prosper." 


^oi;f>^. 


"^I^^l^  OUP  may  be  made  of  any  kind  of  fresh  meat.  Allow  a 
^^Mp  pound  of  uncooked  meat  to  a  quart  of  water.  Bones 
f|i^cy^^  boiled  with  the  meat  are  an  improvement,  as  the  marrow 
f  .^nt,  adds  to  the  richness.  The  meat  should  be  put  into  cold 
n\  '  water,  without  salt,  and  heated  gradually — never  allowing 
the  water  to  boil  hard,  nor  stop  boiling.  The  kettle  must 
be  kept  covered.  Keep  boiling  water  to  renew  with  as  it 
evaporates.  Never  fill  in  with  cold  water  and  do  not  season  till 
nearly  done.  The  bones  and  pieces  left  from  a  roast  at  dinner, 
may  be  made  into  soup  the  next  day — a  piece  of  raw  meat  may 
be  added  if  necessary.  The  vessel  in  which  the  soup  is  to  be  boiled, 
should  be  perfectly  sweet  and  clean.  As  the  scum  rises  to  the 
surface,  skim  with  care,  and,  if  it  is  slow  in  rising,  a  little  cold 
water  may  be  thrown  in,  to  bring  it  up  more  speedily.  Soup 
should  be  boiled  from  three  to  five  hours,  and  never  allowed  to  cool 
in  the  vessel  in  which  it  is  made.  If  very  rich,  the  oily  substance 
should  be  skimmed  from  the  top,  as  it  is  quite  unwholesome.  It 
is  better  to  boil  the  soup  the  day  before  using,  as  the  fat  can  be 
more  easily  removed  after  it  has  cooled. 

'  Soup  kept  on  hand  ready  made,  is  called  stock.  The  supply  may 
be  kept  good  by  saving  and  boiling  such  bones  and  pieces  as  are 
left  on  the  platter  from  every  day  cookery.  This  should  be  strained 
before  setting  away.  It  is  very  convenient  for  making  gravies,  and 
adding  to  vegetable  soups;  and  in  winter  may  be  kept  a  long  time. 
In  summer  it  needs  to  be  made  fresh  frequently. 

PLAIN  BEEF  SOUP, 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Take  a  shank  bone,  wash  nicely,  and,  after  breaking  it  in  sev- 
eral places,  put  it  into  a  pot  of  cold  water,  without  salt.     Let  it 


10  SOUPS. 

boil  slowly,  and  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  When  it  has  boiled 
half  an  hour,  add  one  cup  of  pearl  barley,  and  boil  two  and  a  half 
or  three  hours.  Half  an  hour  before  taking  it  up,  have  three  or 
four  good  sized  potatoes  pared  and  sliced  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  put  them  in  to  boil..  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
If  the  soup  is  too  rich,  skim  the  fat  from  the  top  before  putting 
on  the  table. 

COMMON  MEAT  SOUP. 

MRS.  DR.  UOFFMAN,  BEARDSTOWN,  ILL. 

Boil  four  pounds  of  beef  in  salt  water  until  it  is  soft.  Care 
must  be  taken  to  use  enough  water  in  the  beginning,  but  if  more 
is  necessary  never  add  cold,  but  boiling,  water.  (This  is  a  rule 
with  every  kind  of  soup.)  If  the  soup  is  too  weak,  take  out  the 
meat  and  boil  it  down.  If  a  few  roots,  such  as  carrots,  celeriac, 
etc.,  are  added,  it  will  make  a  very  palatable  soup. 

SAGO  SOUP. 

MRS.  DR.  HOFFMAN,  BEARDSTOAYN,    ILL. 

Take  of  the  beef  broth  as  above,  and  add  as  much  sago  as  is 
necessary,  but  do  not  make  the  soup  too  thick;  boil  it  until  the 
sago  is  done,  then  take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beat  them  up  with 
a  little  of  the  broth,  then  pour  them  into  the- soup  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil. 

EGG-BARLEY  SOUP. 

MRS.  DR.  HOFFMAN,  BEARDSTOWN,  ILL. 

Take  three  dry  rolls,  grate  them,  beat  two  eggs  into  them,  stir 
well  together,  and  pour  slowly  into  the  boiling  meat  soup,  stirring 
continually.  It  will  have  the  appearance  of  barley.  After  boil- 
ing a  short  time,  serve  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 

A  GOOD  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 
Different  kinds  of  vegetables,  such  as  carrots,  turnips,  etc.,  are 
cut  into  small  pieces  and  boiled  soft  in  meat  soup.  Then  take  a 
head  of  Savoy  cabbage;  clean,  cut  it  into  quarters,  boil  soft  in 
water,  press  it  out  or  drain  the  water  off,  then  put  into  the  soup. 
Brown  meat  soup  is  best.  When  all  is  sufficiently  soft,  pour  as 
much  soup  over  it  as  is  necessary  to  make  the  desired  quantity; 


SOUPS.  11 

toast  slices  of  fine  white  bread  or  stale  rolls,  and  put  into  it. 
Before  serving,  grate  nutmeg  over  it. 

O^ULIFLOWER  SOUR 

MRS.  DR.  HOFFMAN,  BEARDSTOWN,  ILL. 

Pick  all  the  little  green  leaves  from  the  cauliflower,  and  put  it 
into  boiling  water;  after  a  minute  or  two  the  water  should  be 
poured  off,  meat  soup  poured^n,  and  boiled  together  with  pars- 
ley and  carrots,  in  a  tightly  covered  pot,  until  nearly  soft.  Sprin- 
kle a  spoonful  of  flour  over  it,  shaking  the  pot,  but  not  stirring  it, 
as  that  will  break  the  cauliflower,  which  should  be  avoided,  Pour 
as  much  more  meat  soup  over  it  as  is  desired,  and  boil  until  all  is 
soft.  "When  ready  to  serve,  take  the  3^0] ks  of  tv/o  or  three  eggs, 
beat  them  well  in  the  soup  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  slowly  over 
them,  stirring  continually.  Small  pieces  of  white  bread,  fried  in 
butter,  may  be  added  just  before  serving. 

AN  EXCELLENT  SOUP  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

Peel  and  slice  six  onions,  six  potatoes,  six  carrots,  and  four  tur- 
nips;;  fry  them  in  a  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  pour  on  four  quarts 
of  boiling  water.  Toast  a  crust  of  bread  as  brown  and  hard  as 
possible,  but  do  not  burn  it,  and  put  it  in  with  some  celery,  sweet 
herbs,  pepper  and  salt;  stew  it  all  gently  for  four  hours,  and 
strain  through  a  coarse  cloth.  If  desired,  an  anchovy  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  catsup  may  be  used. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

MRS.  DR.  HOFFMAK,  BEARDSTOWK,  ILL. 

Take  beef  broth  and  add  tomatoes  to  suit  the  taste,  (having  pre- 
viously cooked,  mashed,  and  strained  them  very  fine),  a  little  pep- 
per, sugar,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  or  pulverized  crackers. 
Boil  ten  minutes  and  then  serve. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

MISS  LIZZIE  SMITH,   MT.   CARROLL,  ILL. 

Take  six  peeled  tomatoes  of  medium  size,  with  one  pint  of  water, 
cook  thoroughly,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  At  the 
last,  add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  take  it 
up  at  once,  or  the  milk  will  curdle. 


12  SOUPS. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

MRS.  J.  KUHN. 

Peel  four  or  five  good  sized  potatoes,  and  boil  in  two  quarts  of 
water.  When  boiled  soft,  pour  off  the  water,  mash  the  potatoes 
fine  and  return  them  to  the  water.  Take  a  piece  of  butter  about 
the  size  of  an  Qg^.,  fry  it  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  (and,  if 
desired,  an  onion),  till  brown.  Then  add  it  to  the  soup,  with  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

MISS  W.  JOHNSON. 

Peel  and  slice  three  potatoes;  boil  them  in  two  quarts  of  water 
till  nearly  done,  then  add  one  teacup  of  milk.  Pepper,  salt  and 
butter  to  taste.  Just  before  removing  from  the  fire,  pour  in  one 
cup  of  sweet  cream. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

MISS  W.  JOHNSON. 

Soak  one  pint  of  beans  in  cold  water  over  night.  Boil  till  ten- 
der, then  mash  and  strain  them  through  a  colander.  Boil  them 
up  in  two  quarts  of  meat  broth,  and  season  to  taste. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

MRS.  C.  C.  HOWELL. 

After  breakfast,  put  one  coffee-cup  of  beans  into  four  quarts  of 
water,  with  the  trimmings  from  your  breakfast  steak,  or  other  bits 
of  meat.  Let  it  boil  constantly  until  dinner,  adding  water  if  nec- 
essary. Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  done,  strain  into 
the  soup  tureen  through  a  colander,  and  you  have  a  delicious  soup 
with  very  little  expense. 

PEA  SOUP. 

MRS.  G.  F 


If  dry  peas  are  used,  soak  them  over  night  in  a  warm  place, 
using  a  quart  of  water  to  each  quart  of  the  peas.  Early  next 
morning,  boil  them  an  hour,  putting  in  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  few 
minutes  before  removing  them  from  the  fire.  Take  them  up,  put 
them  into  fresh  water,  and  boil  them  until  tender  (3  or  4  hours); 


SOUPS.  13 

boil  with  them  a  pound  of  salt  pork;  it  should  be  taken  upas  soon 
as  tender.  Other  meat  can  be  used  if  preferred,  and  the  soup 
seasoned  to  taste.  Green  peas  need  no  soaking,  and  only  an  hour's 
boiling. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Mix  two  quarts  of  green  peas  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean 
ham,  cut  into  small  dice;  put  into  a  stew  pan,  add  a  cup  of  cold 
water,  and  place  over  a  sharp  fire,  stirring  the  contents  occasionally ; 
when  very  tender,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  which  mix  well 
in,  mashing  the  peas  with  your  spoon  against  the  sides  of  your  stew 
pan.  Add  two  quarts  of  stock  (meat  broth),  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  all  well  together  five  min- 
utes.    Strain  and  serve. 

GREEN  CORN  SOUP. 

MKS.  W.  H.  CLEGHORN. 

Take  one  dozen  ears  of  green  corn,  and  shave  the  corn  from  the 
cobs.  Put  the  cobs  into  a  gallon  of  cold  water,  and  boil  30  min- 
utes, after  which  remove  them  and  skim  the  water  thoroughly. 
Chop  or  bruise  the  corn,  and  boil  it  30  minutes  in  the  same  water. 
Then  add  two  quarts  of  fresh  milk,  and  season  with  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.     Let  it  boil  up  and  serve. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 
Shell  the  peas,  and  boil  the  pods  and  peas  in  separate  vessels. 
If  you  have  no  stock  (meat  broth),  add  a  little  fresh  meat,  or  a  slice 
of  ham  to  the  water  in  which  the  pods  are  boiled.  "When  the  pods 
are  thoroughly  boiled  strain  the  water  through  a  colander;  return 
the  liquor  to  the  pot,  and  add  the  peas  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
serving.  Butter  and  season  to  suit  the  taste.  Pour  over  crackers 
if  desired.  t 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

MRS.  J.   P.  FOSTER. 

• 

To  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  add 
the  liquor  from  one  quart  of  oysters.  Boil  this  up  together,  then 
add  the  oysters  and  half  a  teacupful  of  cracker  crumbs  rolled 
fine.  Add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Much  boiling  hard- 
ens the  oysters.     Serve  with  hot  toast  and  crackers. 


14  SOUPS. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Old  fowls  are  best  for  making  soup.  Cut  up  as  for  frying;  boil 
gently  in  three  quarts  of  water  till  the  meat  is  well  cooked;  skim 
carefully.  Add  a  teacupful  of  rice,  and  season  to  taste.  Some 
prefer  to  add  sweet  milk  or  cream.  Pick  the  meat  carefully  from 
the  bones  and  serve  with  the  soup,  or  make  into  salad. 

CHICKEN  AND  OYSTER  SOUP. 

Cut  up  a  full-grown  fowl  as  for  frying.  Clean  the  giblets  nicely, 
and  put  all  in  the  soup  kettle,  with  just  enough  water  to  cover 
them;  let  it  simmer  gently;  remove  all  the  scum.  When  the 
chicken  is  tender,  take  it  up,  strain  the  liquor,  and  return  it  to  the 
kettle.  Use  a  quart  of  sweet  milk  to  a  quart  of  broth;  add  boiling 
water  if  necessary.  Add  a  quart  of  oysters  with  their  juice,  and 
two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of 
wheat  flour  rubbed  into  the  butter,  and  one  gill  of  hot  cream;  stew 
gently  five  minutes.  Cream  must  always  be  boiled  before  being 
put  into  soup  or  gravy.     Use  the  chicken  for  salad. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP. 

Take  the  head  and  two  feet,  of  a  calf,  that  have  been  carefully 
cleaned.  Separate  the  jaws  and  remove  the  brains.  Place  the 
meat  in  cold  water,  let  it  heat  slowly,  and  skim  with  care.  When  it 
is  done,  take  it  up,  and  set  it  away  until  the  next  day.  Then  skim 
off  the  fat,  pick  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  chop  fine;  put  the 
liquor  and  /jar^  of  the  meat  in  the  pot.  Tie,  in  a  thin  muslin 
cloth,  a  few  grains  of  allspice,  bruised  slightly,  and  a  dozen  cloves; 
add  to  the  soup,  also,  a  grated  nutmeg;  this  is  spice  enough  for 
half  a  gallon  of  soup.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  frequently 
to  prevent  the  meat  from  burning.  Half  an  hour  before  the  soup 
is  done,  one  tablespoonful  of  batter,  made  with  water  and  browned 
flour,  should  be  added  for  each  gallon;  force-meat  balls  may  also 
be  added,  if  desired.  Fifteen  minutes  before  sending  to  the  table, 
add  half  a  gill  of  good  catsup  to  each  quart  of  soup.  To  each 
gallon,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  The  yolks  of  eight 
hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced,  should  be  put  into  the  soup  after  it  is 
poured  into  the  tureen.  This  soup  may  be  made  equally  good 
with  a  shank  of  veal  or  beef.     A  little  butter  and  cooked  Irish 


SOUPS.  15 

potatoes  added  to  the  remaining  meat  and  laid  in  pie-crust,  make 
a  good  mock  turtle  pie. 

FORCE-MEAT  BALLS. 
Chop  half  a  pound  of  lean  veal,  or  other  meat,  fine,  together 
with  a  little  raw  salt  pork;  add  a  small  tea-cup  of  bread  crumbs, 
moistened  with  cream.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  curry  powder 
or  cloves.  Work  all  together  with  a  well-beaten  egg.  If  the 
paste  is  too  stiff,  add  another  egg.,  or  only  the  yolk,  or  a  little  more 
cream.  If  not  stiff  enough,  they  will  fall  to  pieces.  Make  into 
balls,  the  size  of  half  an  egg  and  boil  part  in  the  soup,  fifteen 
minutes.  Fry  the  remainder  in  hot  lard  and  serve  up  in  a  sepa- 
rate dish. 

NOODLE  SOUP. 

MRS.  J.  KUHN. 

Take  two  eggs  and  flour  enough  to  make  very  stiff,  and  roll  out 
as  thin  as  possible.  Let  it  dry  a  little,  then  turn  in  one  edge  and 
make  it  in  a  long  roll.  Cut  slices  across  this  as  thin  as  can  be 
done  with  a  sharp  knife.  Put  them  into  plain  beef  soup  just  long 
enough  before  serving,  to  have  them  come  to  a  boil — a  longer  time 
will  make  them  heavy. 

DUMPLINGS  FOR  SOUP. 

MRS.   J.  B.  LYMAN,  ROCKPORD,  ILL. 

One-half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  when 
scalding  hot,  stir  in  flour  until  stiff;  three  eggs. 

SCOTCH  BROTH. 

Take  the  chops  from  a  neck  of  mutton  ;  cut  the  remainder  into 
small  pieces  and  let  it  stew  gently  the  Avhole  day.  Boil  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  pearl  barley  in  a  little  water,  till  tender  ;  strain  it 
dry.  Chop  fine  two  large  onions  and  turnips  and  put  with  the 
barley  and  meat  into  a  close  stew-pan;  strain  the  broth  into  it, 
also  the  water  from  the  barley;  let  it  boil  one  hour  and  a  half  and 
skim  well.     Season  it  only  with  salt  and  pepper. 

PORTABLE  SOUP. 

Take  the  liquor  in  which  beef  or  veal,  or  any  scraps  of  fresh 
meat,  good  bones,  or  fowls,  have  been  boiled.     Remove  all  the 


16  SOUPS. 

fat  and  strain  the  liquor  into  the  stew  pan  ;  boil  briskly,  putting 
in  salt  to  taste  and  plenty  of  pepper.  Leave  the  stew-pan  un- 
covered, and  watch  closely  to  prevent  burning.  Drop  a  little 
upon  a  cold  plate  and  when  of  a  consistency  to  make  thick 
jelly,  pour  it  on  platters,  having  it  not  over  three  quarters  of 
an  inch  in  thickness.  When  cold,  cut  in  pieces  about  three  inches 
square  and  set  them  in  the  sun  to  dry,  turning  them  frequently. 
When  perfectly  dry,  put  them  in  an  earthen  vessel  with  white 
paper  between  each  layer.  If  the.  directions  are  strictly  fol- 
lowed these  cakes  will  keep  good  a  long  time. 

OCHRA,  OR  GUMBO  SOUP. 

MRS.  G.  E.  OSGOOD. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  and  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork  as  if  to  fry;  take 
two  quarts  of  young  and  tender  ochra,  slice  it,  and  put  into  a 
pot  with  the  meat,  with  just  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it, 
and  stew  for  an  hour.  Then  add  one  quart  of  ripe  tomatoes  sliced, 
and  two  or  more  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Cover  closely,  and 
skim  frequently.  Boil  till  the  meat  and  vegetables  fall  to  pieces, 
then  add  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  serve  hot.  This  is  a 
southern  dish,  but  ochra  is  raised  in  this  latitude. 


^im. 


ISH  to  be  really  good  tnust  be  fresh.      If  the  eyes  are 
bright  and  the  flesh  firm,  it  is  a  pretty  sure  indication  of 
-    their  freshness. 


TO  FRY  FISH. 

An  iron  spider  is  the  best  utensil  for  the  purpose.  The 
lard  used  for  frying  should  be  sweet  and  clean  and  free  from 
salt.  The  lard  should  be  just  the  right  heat.  If  a  small  piece  of 
bread  thrown  in  fries  crisp,  the  lard  is  ready;  if  the  bread  burns 
it  is  too  hot.  As  soon  as  the  fish  is  done,  lay  it  on  a  soft  cloth  by 
the  fire  to  absorb  the  grease. 

HOW  TO  BROIL  FISH. 

When  thoroughly  cleaned  and  washed,  dry  the  fish  with  a  towel; 
rub  it  inside  and  outside  with  a  little  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper 
it  on  both  sides.  Have  a  sharp  fire  and  the  draught  good,  set  on 
the  fish  and  turn  over  often  enough  to  prevent  it  from  charring. 
It  must  broil  quickly.  When  done,  place  the  fish  on  a  warm  plat- 
ter, the  inside  up,  and  spread  over  butter.  When  turning  the 
fish,  do  not  use  a  knife  and  fork,  but  lay  a  dish  on  it  and  hold  it 
with  one  hand,  while  you  turn  the  gridiron  over  with  the  other. 
Lay  the  skin  side  down,  first. 

TO  BOIL  FRESH  FISH. 
After  being  well  scaled  and  cleaned,  rub  salt  over  the 
inside  of  the  fish;  wrap  each  fish  in  a  cloth  and  sew  it  on,  then 
place  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water,  salt  the  water,  simmer  gently  till 
the  fish  will  separate,  but  not  fall  from  the  bone.  This  may  be 
ascertained  by  opening  the  cloth  and  trying  it  in  one  place,  but 
fasten  it  up  again  if  not  done.  Serve  with  rich  drawn  butter, 
with  eggs. 

2  17 


18  FISH. 

TO  BAKE  FISH. 

The  simplest  way  is  very  good.  Spread  little  pieces  of  bread 
with  butter;  pepper  and  salt  them  and  lay  them  inside  the  fish; 
take  a  needle  and  thread  and  sew  it  up;  lay  it  into  a  dish  and 
put  a  few  thin  slices  of  pork  on  it;  sprinkle  over  salt  and  flour 
it  well.  Baste  it  with  the  liquor  which  cooks  out  of  it.  A  fish 
weighing  four  pounds  will  cook  in  an  hour. 

BAKED  FISH. 

MRS.  A.  L.  FEISBIE. 

Open  the  fish  so  that  it  will  lie  perfectly  flat.  Rub  salt  over  it 
and  lay  it  in  a  dripping  pan,  with  a  very  little  butter  and  water. 
Put  it  in  a  very  hot  oven  and  bake  twenty  minutes  or  a  half  hour, 
according  to  thickness  of  the  fish.  When  done  it  will  be  a  deli- 
cate brown  and  will  be  cooked  through  without  the  trouble  of 
turning.  Of  course  the  skin  side  is  laid  next  the  dripping  pan. 
White  fish  cooked  in  this  way  are  especially  nice. 

FISH  CHOWDER. 

MRS.  J.    B.    STEWART. 

Take  three  or  four  pounds  of  fish  for  six  or  eight  persons;  cut 
in  sections,  crosswise.  Take  five  or  six  slices  of  salt  pork,  lay 
them  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  and  let  them  fry  slowly  until  all 
the  fat  is  fried  out;  then  remove  the  scraps  of  pork  and  lay  in 
about  one-third  of  the  fish,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  a 
sprinkling  of  chopped  onions  (chop  two  onions  for  the  whole,) 
then  pepper  and  salt  and  some  flour  dredged  in  so  as  not  to  lump. 
Place  in  layers  until  the  whole  is  used.  Cover  with  cold  water 
and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  a  half  dozen  Boston  crackers, 
split  and  wet  in  cold  water;  add  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Bdil 
five  minutes  more  and  serve. 

TO  POT  FRESH  FISH. 

Let  the  fish  lie  in  salt  and  water  several  hours.  For  five  pounds 
of  fish  take  three  ounces  of  salt,  two  ounces  of  pepper,  two  of 
cinnamon,  one  of  allspice,  and  half  an  ounce  of  cloves.  Cut  the 
fish  in  slices  and  lay  in  the  jar  in  which  it  is  to  be  cooked — a 
layer  of  fish,  then  sprinkle  spices,  with  flour  and  bits  of  butter  on 


FISH.  19 

top;  another  layer  of  fish  and  seasoning,  till  all  is  packed.  Fill 
the  jar  with  equal  proportions  of  vinegar  and  water;  lay  on  a 
cloth  pressed  down  close  to  the  sides  of  the  jar,  and  put  flour  on 
top,  so  no  steam  may  escape.  Bake  moderately  six  hours;  let  it 
remain  in  the  jar  till  cold,  when  it  can  be  sliced  for  tea. 

SHAD. 

Fresh  shad  are  good  baked  or  broiled,  but  much  the  best 
broiled.  For  broiling,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  the  inside 
when  cleaned,  and  let  it  remain  some  hours.  Salt  shad  for  broil- 
ing should  be  soaked  ten  or  twelve  hours,  in  cold  water.  For 
boiling,  they  need  be  soaked  only  long  enough  to  enable  the  scales 
to  be  easily  removed.     The  roe  is  good  either  broiled  or  fried. 

BAKED  HALIBUT. 

Lay  five  or  six  pounds  of  fresh  halibut  iu  salt  and  water  for  two 
hours,  then  wipe  dry,  score  the  skin  in  squares,  and  set  in  a 
tolerably  hot  oven;  baste  quite  often  with  butter  melted  in  hot 
water.  When  done,  a  fork  will  easily  penetrate  it.  Serve  with 
drawn  butter,  flavored  with  walnut  catsup,  or  such  sauce  as  may 
be  preferred. 

HALIBUT 
Is  nice  cut  in  slices,  well  seasoned,  then   broiled  or   fried.      The 
fins  and  thick  part  are  good  boiled. 

SMOKED  HALIBUT. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Enough  may  be  soaked  for  several  days  at  one  time,  hang  it 
up  to  dry,  and  broil  what  is  needed  on  a  gridiron;  when  done, 
butter  well,  and  serve  while  hot. 

SALMON  TROUT, 

When  thoroughly  cleaned  and  washed,  should  be  wiped  care- 
fully and  laid  into  a  dripping  pan,  with  water  enough  to  prevent 
scorching.  Bake  slowly,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water. 
W^hen  done,  have  ready  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  diluted  with  a  few- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  stir  in  carefully  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.      Heat  this  by  placing 


20  FISH. 

the  vessel  in  boiling  water;  add  the  gravy  from  the  fish  and  boil  up 
once.     Place  the  fish  in  a  hot  dish  and  pour  over  the  sauce. 
Pickerel  are  good  baked  in  the  same  way. 

HOW  TO  CHOOSE  A  SALT  MACKEREL. 

A  poor  mackerel  when  salted  has  a  heavy  dead  appearing  eye, 
but  a  fat  one  will  have  a  substance  which  resembles  white  jelly, 
sometimes  covering  the  eye  and  extending  back  from  it  on  the 
head.  All  salt  mackerel  have  it  to  some  extent,  and  the  larger 
the  accumulation  of  this  substance,  the  fatter  and  better  the  fisn. 
In  soaking  fish,  use  plenty  of  water,  and  put  the  skin  side  upper- 
most, as  the  salt  will  then  fall  to  the  bottom  and  leave  the  fish 
freshened.  If  it  is  very  salt,  the  water  may  need  to  be  changed. 
The  fish  will  broil  nicer  to  be  hung  up  an  hour  or  two  to  dry, 
before  cooking,  though  wiping  with  a  soft  dry  cloth  will  answer 
very  well. 

BOILED  MACKEREL. 

If  fresh,  simmer  them  fifteen  minutes  in  a  little  water  with 
salt.  Do  not  let  them  boil  hard.  If  salted,  let  them  lie  in  hot 
water  half  an  hour  before  boiling,  then  change  the  water. 

SOUSED  MACKEREL. 

If  fresh,  when  cleaned,  boil  them  in  salt  and  water.  If  salt, 
freshen  them  a  little  first.  When  boiled,  take  them  out  of  the 
water,  and  save  about  half  enough  to  cover  them;  mix  it  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  vinegar.  Heat  it  scalding  hot,  wit,h  a  few  pep- 
per-corns and  cloves,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  They  will  be 
sufficiently  pickled  in  the  course  of  three  days. 

CANNED  SALMON. 

MRS.  G.   E.  OSGOOD. 

Set  the  can  of  salmon  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  let  it  stand 
half  an  hour,  take  it  out,  pour  off  the  juice  or  oil  from  the  salmon 
and  pour  over  it  a  dressing  made  of  equal  quantities  of  butter  and 
vinegar,  boiled  together. 

TO  BROIL  SMOKED  SALMON. 
Wash  well  in  cold  water  and  wipe  dry;   cut    in  pieces  to  serve 


FISH.  21 

and  broil  on  a  hot  gridiron,  turning  several  times.      When  well 
heated  through,  take  up,  and  put  on  melted  butter. 

HOW  TO  COOK  COD-FISH. 

Soak  the  thickest  part  for  two  days  in  sweet  skimmed-milk, 
changing  the  milk  twice.  Roll  in  flour,  and  fry  quite  brown. 
Scald,  but  do  not  boil,  a  teacup  of  thick  sweet  cream,  and  pour 
over  the  fish. 

TO  PREPARE  COD-FISH  FOR  THE  TABLE. 

MRS.  J.  M.    OTIS. 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones.  Make  the  fish  fine  by  cutting  it 
first  in  short  pieces,  then  pick  very  fine.  Throw  into  cold  water 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  letting  it  stand  in  a  warm  place.  Pre- 
pare cream  as  for  dried-beef.  When  it  boils,  add  the  fish  skimmed 
from  the  water,  and  serve. 

BOILED  COD-FISH. 

MRS.  E.   P.   CHASE. 

Soak  over  night;  put  in  a  pan  filled  with  water,  and  simmer 
two  or  three  hours.  Serve  with  drawn  butter,  with  hard-boiled 
eggs  sliced  in  it. 

DRAWN   BUTTER. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter,  large  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  with 
the  butter.     Pour  on  one  pint  of  boiling   water.      Salt  to  taste. 

COD-FISH  BALLS. 

MES.   E.  P.  CUASE. 

Take  mashed  potatoes,  and  half  as  much  cod-fish  as  potatoes; 
add  apiece  of  butter  and  one  hard-boiled  egg.  Mash  well  together, 
and  make  in  balls.  Fry  brown  in  equal  parts  of  butter  and 
lard. 

COD-FISH  ON  TOAST. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Pull  the  fish  into  small  strips,  and  soak  about  half  an  hour  in 
luke-warm  water;   drain  ofl^  the   water,  and  pour  on   milk;  add 


22  SHELLFISH. 

butter.     Three  or  four  beateu  eggs  improve  it.     Let  it  heat,  but 
do  not  let  it  boil  or  it  will  harden.     Turn  it  on  buttered  toast. 

FRIED  FRESH  COD-FISH. 

Cut  the  fish  into  slices  about  two  inches  thick,  dip  in  egg,  then 
in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  to  a  rich  brown  in  plenty  of  fat.' 

Cod-fish  is  good  baked  after  being  boiled,  and  dressed  with  a 
rich  sauce  of  cream,  butter  and  hard-boiled  eggs;  rub  a  little 
flour  into  the  butter.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

BROILED  COD-FISH.  / 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Soak  till  freshened  enough,  which  can  be  determined  by  tast- 
ing; wipe  dr}',  and  broil  on  gridiron.  Do  not  forget  to  grease 
the  bars.     This  makes  a  nice  relish  for  tea. 


gl)ell-5^iA. 


OYSTER  PIE. 

AKE  a  nice  paste,  and  line  a  deep  dish,  turn  a  tea-cup 
down  in  the  center;  this  will  draw  the  liquor  under  it 
'1^  and  prevent  it  from  boiling  over;  it  also  keejDS  the 
upper  crust  from  falling  in  and  becoming  clammy.  Lay 
in  the  oysters,  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  flour. 
Use  but  little  of  the  liquor.  Make  a  wide  incision  in  the 
upper  crust,  so  that  when  the  pie  is  nearly  done  you  can 
pour  in  half  a  tea-cup  of  sweet  cream  or  milk.  Secure  the 
edges  by  moistening  the  under  crust,  and  sprinkling  flour  on  it 
before  pinching  down  the  top;  place  in  the  oven  immediately 
and  bake  an  hour.  If  allowed  to  stand,  the  under  crust  will  be 
clammy. 


SHELL-FISH.  23 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Take  a  pint  of  oysters,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  put 
into  a  stew  pan,  with  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fresh  butter;  set 
this  on  the  stove,  and,  as  the  butter  melts,  stir  carefully; 
scald  the  liquor  by  itself,  and  when  the  butter  is  hot,  but  not 
boiling,  pour  the  oyster  liquor  in,  stir  all  together,  and  let  it  stew 
fifteen  minutes;  set  this  aside  in  an  earthen  vessel.  Have  patty 
pans  lined  with  puif  paste;  bake  them  a  light  brown  color;  just 
before  serving,  fill  these  with  oysters.  They  should  be  eaten  imme- 
diately, as  the  gravy,  by  soaking  in,  will  render  the  pastry  heavy. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

MRS.  E.  P.   CHASE. 

Butter  your  pan  or  dish;  cover  the  bottom  with  crackers,  rolled 
fine.  Add  a  layer  of  oysters.  Alternate  the  crackers  and  oysters 
until  you  have  three  or  four  layers,  the  crackers  being  the  top 
layer.  Sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter. 
Moisten  with  a  mixture  of  the  oyster  liquor  and  milk — butter  on 
the  top.     Bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS. 

MKS.  D.  O.  FINCH. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  scald  and  skim  it  till  clear. 
Then  scald  the  oysters  in  the  liquor  till  they  begin  to  shrivel. 
Skim  them  out;  add  vinegar  and  whole  allspice  to  taste;  let  scald 
and  pour  over  the  oysters. 

TO  FRY  OYSTERS. 

MRS.  C.  W.   NELSON. 

Take  the  largest  oysters  and  spread  them  upon  a  napkin;  put 
another  over  to  dry  them;  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
have  ready  some  beaten  ^^'g^  and  crackers  rolled  fine;  prepare 
in  your  pan  some  sweet  lard  and  butter.  Dip  each  oyster  into 
the  egg,  then  roll  in  the  cracker  and  drop  into  the  boiling  fat; 
there  must  be  enough  to  allow  the  oysters  to  float.  Serve  with 
hot  cakes. 


24  SHELL-FISH. 

STEAMED  OYSTERS. 

MRS.  C.  H.  SWEENEY. 

Wash  the  oysters,  put  them  in  a  deep  dish  in  the  steamer,  and 
let  them  cook  till  they  shrivel.  In  the  meantime  have  the  liquor 
on  the  stove  in  a  half  pint  of  water;  scald  and  skim,  add  one 
quart  of  milk' and  butter;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  roll  one 
cracker  fine  and  sprinkle  in  and  let  all  scald  together;  pour  over 
the  oysters,  and  serve  immediately. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 
To  fry,  take  fresh  and  good  sized  oysters,  open  and  turn  them 
into  a  colander  for  half  an  hour,  to  drain  them.  Beat  two  or  three 
eggs  in  a  bowl.  Turn  the  oysters  into  fine  cracker  crumbs,  and 
then  shake  them  so  that  little  of  the  crumbs  shall  adhere.  Put  the 
oysters  into  the  beaten  eggs,  and  stir  them,  after  which,  take 
them  out  one  by  one;  see  that  they  have  been  well  dipped  in  the 
Q^'g.,  and  roll  them  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  As  soon  as  an 
oyster  is  well  rolled  in  crumbs,  put  it  into  the  palm  of  your 
hand,  on  its  flat  side,  and  press  gently  on  it  with  the  other  hand. 
When  thus  prepared  put  them  away  in  a  cold  place  until  they 
are  put  in  the  pan.  They  may  be  dipped  in  ^g^  and  rolled  a 
second  time,  half  an  hour  after  the  first  time.  After  being  rolled 
in  crumbs,  they  may  be  kept  in  a  cold  place  for  hours  before  being 
fried,  but  the  quicker  they  are  eaten  after  they  are  fried  the  bet- 
ter. When  fried,  turn  them  into  a  colander,  dust  fine  salt  over 
them  and  serve  hot. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

After  being  strained,  they  are  rolled  in  fine  cracker  crumbs, 
then  shaken  gently  on  a  rough  towel,  dipped  in  melted  butter, 
rolled  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  broiled  on  the  gridiron. 
Serve  hot. 

STEWED  OYSTERS. 

Put  the  oysters  on  the  fire  in  a  pan,  with  a  little  salt  and  butter; 
remove  them  at  the  first  boil,  add  pepper  and  a  little  milk  and 
cream,  and  serve. 


SHELLFISH.  35 

ROASTED  OYSTERS. 
Put  oysters,  in  the  shell,  on  the  gridiron  or   hot  coals;  when 
cooked,  the  shell  usually  opens  a  little;    remove   from  the  fire 
take  off  half  the  shell,  put  on  butter,  salt   and   pepper,  and  eat 
while  hot. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS. 
Scald  them  in  their  own  liquor,  and  wipe  dry.  Add  one  pint  of 
milk  to  the  liquor,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  five  well-beaten  eggs, 
with  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  and  drop  the  oysters  into  it. 
Take  up  each  oyster  in  a  spoonful  of  batter,  and  fry  in  boiling 
lard,  till  a  light  brown.  Lay  a  soft  napkin  on  a  flat  dish,  and  serve 
the  fritters  on  this,  that  the  grease  may  be  absorbed  by  it,  and  not 
soak  into  them. 

ANOTHER  OYSTER  PIE. 
Line  a  deep  baking  dish  with  rich  puff  paste,  as  for  any  other 
pie;  fill  with  crackers  or  crusts  of  light  bread.  Have  the  top 
crust  much  thicker  than  the  under  one,  and  butter  the  edges  so 
the  crust  will  part  easily  when  done.  Put  a  roll  of  paste  around 
the  edge  of  the  top  crust,  and  bake.  Drain  the  liquor  from  the 
oysters,  put  in  a  little  hot  water,  salt  and  pepper,  and  set  over 
the  fire;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  a  cupful  of  rich  milk  or 
cream;  when  it  boils  up  once,  put  in  the  oysters,  and  stew  five 
minutes;  add  a  piece  of  butter,  stir,  and  remove  from  the  fire 
as  soon  as  it  melts.  Time  your  work  so  that  the  crust  shall  be  ready 
just  as  soon  as  the  oysters  are.  Lift  the  top  crust,  pour  in  the 
hot  oysters,  and  serve  immediately. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 

Chop  a  dozen  clams  fine;  take  the  liquor  from  the  clams,  and 
add  one  pint  of  milk;  to  this  add  four  beaten  eggs,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.     Season  to  taste.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

LOBSTER  CROQUETTES. 

Take  boiled  lobster  and  chop  fine,  season  to  taste,  and  have  fine 
bread  crumbs  about  one-third  of  the  quantity  of  meat,  and  mix  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Make  this  into  balls,  roll  in 
beaten  q^^.^  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve 
immediately. 


?OUl<¥^Y. 


TO  SELECT  AND  PREPAEE  POULTRY. 


RY  the  wing,  and  if  it  is  easily  disjointed  or  turned  back, 
the  fowl  is  young;  if  a  turkey,  it  has  also  a  smooth  leg 
and  soft  bill,  and  if  fresh,  the  eyes  will  be  bright  and 
'  the  feet  moist.  If  the  fowls  are  dressed,  select  by  their 
'skin  and  breast  bone.  The  young  ones  have  a  thin  and  ten- 
der skin,  and  the  breast  bone  yields  readily  when  pressed  by 
the  fingers.  (They  should  be  killed  by  having  the  neck  cut,  and 
then  hung  by  the  legs  so  that  they  will  bleed  freely,  in  order  to 
make  them  white  and  healthy  to  eat.)  Scald  and  pick  off  the 
feathers,  being  careful  to  remove  all  the  pin-feathers.  A  pair  of 
tweezers  or  the  point  of  a  dull  knife  is  frequently  a  great 
help.  Cut  the  oil-bag  out  from  above  the  tail,  and  singe  off 
the  hair  by  holding  over  a  blazing  paper,  so  the  fire  may  reach 
all  parts.  Then  remove  everything  from  the  inside,  keeping 
the  gizzard,  heart  and  liver  to  stew  for  the  gravy.  Great  care 
must  be  used  in  separating  the  gall-bag  from  the  liver — if  broken 
it  renders  what  it  touches  unfit  to  eat.  Thoroughly  wash  and 
cleanse  the  fowl.  A  little  soda  may  be  thrown  into  the  water 
after  the  first  washing,  and  then  rinse  in  clear  water.  Cut  off 
the  legs  at  the  first  joint  above  the  feet,  and  if  to  be  cut  up, 
the  following  way  is  advised,  as  each  piece  has  a  good  portion 
of  meat.  Cut  it  open  right  through  the  back  and  so  clear 
through  the  breast  bone,  being  careful  to  leave  the  breast  «iqual 
on  both  halves;  then,  after  removing  the  flyer  of  the  wings  and 
the  drumsticks,  cut  each  half  crosswise  into  four,  five,  or  six 
pieces,  according  to  the  size  of  the  fowl,  being  careful  so  to  cut 
as  to  leave  good  meat  on  each  piece, 

27 


28  POULTRY. 

TO  ROAST  A  TURKEY. 

MRS.  J.  P.  POSTER, 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  above.  Make  a  dressing 
of  fine  bread  crumbs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  sage  or 
such  sweet  herbs  as  are  preferred.  Do  not  flavor  too  strongly  with 
any  one  thing;  mix  all  together  and  pour  over  melted  butter  to 
moisten  it  nearly  enough,  then  add  a  little  water.  Put  salt  on 
the  inside  of  the  turkey,  and  fill  the  crop  and  body  with  the 
dressing;  sew  it  up  with  white  woolen  yarn  (for  it  will  not  tear 
the  flesh  as  cotton  does),  tie  the  legs  and  wings  close  to  the  body, 
lay  into  a  dripping-pan,  and  rub  a  little  salt  and  butter  over  it, 
or  lay  on  two  or  three  slices  of  salt  pork;  pour  over  a  tea-cup  of 
water,  and  place  it  in  the  oven.  It  should  be  roasted  slowly  at 
first,  and  basted  frequently.  If  desired,  oysters  can  be  used  in 
the  dressing  and  sauce.  Mix  the  oysters  with  the  bread,  omitting 
the  herbs,  and  moisten  with  the  liquor  of  the  oyster  instead  of 
water. 

For  the  gravy,  boil  the  heart,  liver  and  gizzard,  till  very  tender; 
then  chop  fine  and  return  to  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled;  add  oysters  and  their  liquor,  also  some  butter  rubbed  in 
flour  to  thicken  the  gravy,  and  season  to  taste;  boil  till  oysters  and 
flour  are  cooked,  then  serve. 

BOILED  TURKEY. 

Prepare  as  for  roasting.  Half  a  ciip  of  rice  boiled  with  a  turkey 
makes  the  meat  look  white,  or  wrapping  it  closely  in  a  cloth 
dredged  with  flour  before  putting  it  to  boil  will  have  the  same 
efi"ect.  A  small  piece  of  salt  pork  improves  the  flavor.  Oyster 
sauce  is  very  nice  for  turkey  cooked  in  this  way. 

TO  WARM  OVER  TURKEY. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  chop  fine;  spread  a  layer 
of  crackers  or  bread  crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish; 
moisten  with  a  little  milk  or  water,  then  put  on  a  layer  of  turkey, 
(a  little  cooked  ham  minced  fine  and  mixed  with  it  is  an  im- 
provement,) a  few  bits  of  butter  and  the  dressing,  then  another 
layer  of  crumbs  and  so  on  till  near  the  top,  seasoning  to  taste  all 
the  way  through,  and  pouring  on  the   gravy  left   from  the    day 


POULTRY.  29 

before,  adding  water  if  necessary.  The  top  layer  should  be 
crumbs  soaked  in  warm  milk  and  beaten  up  light  with  two  eggs 
and  spread  smoothly  over,  with  bits  of  butter  on  the  top.  Turn  a 
pan  or  deep  plate  over  this  till  cooked  through,  and  then  remove 
the  cover  and  let  the  top  brown. 

OTHER  WAYS. 

Cut  the  pieces  that  are  left,  up  fine,  and  warm  with  the 
gravy,  or  make  a  turkey  pie  of  them. 

ROAST  CHICKEN. 

Having  picked  and  prepared  the  chicken  for  cooking,  make  a 
stuffing  as  for  a  turkey.  Rub  salt  over  it  and  place  in  dripping- 
pan  with  pieces  of  butter  laid  on  the  breast  ;  put  in  hot  water 
enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  baste  frequently, 
turning  the  pan  so  the  chicken  may  roast  equally  on  all  sides. 
When  done,  take  up  the  chicken  and  make  a  gravy  by  mixing 
flour  with  butter,  or,  if  preferred,  the  fat  of  the  drippings,  and 
adding  the  giblets,  pre\iously  boiled  and  chopped,  to  the  liquor 
in  the  dripping-pan.     Boil  up  and  serve. 

FRICASSEED  CHICKEN. 

MES.  J.  P.   POSTER. 

The  chickens  should  be  cut  up  according  to  previous  directions; 
wash  and  lay  in  cold  salt  water  for  half  an  hour;  put  in  a  pot  with 
the  skin  side  down,  with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork;  sprinkle  in 
pepper,  and  put  on  just  enough  water  to  cover  them  (hot,  not 
boiling  water,  is  best).  Cover  and  stew  slowly  till  tender,  then 
remove  the  chicken,  and  skim  the  oil  from  the  top  of  the  liquor,  if 
the  chickens  are  fat;  take  a  piece  of  butter  and  mix  with  flour 
enough  to  thicken  the  remainder.  Boil  till  the  flour  is  cooked. 
Have  ready  some  hot  shortcakes  or  biscuits,  split  open,  and  laid 
on  your  platter,  or  toast  if  preferred.  Lay  on  your  chicken  and 
pour  gravy  over  the  whole.  If  the  pork  does  not  salt  it  suffi- 
ciently, add  salt  before  taking  up  the  chicken.  Old  fowls  are 
best  cooked  in  this  way. 

BROILED  CHICKEN. 

MRS.  J.  M.  OTIS. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  desirable  pieces  for  the  table;   put  it  into 


30  POULTRY. 

a  stewpan  with  water  sufficient  to  keep  it  from  scorching,  and  a 
very  little  salt;  when  it  is  dry,  place  the  pieces  upon  a  hot,  but- 
tered gridiron,  over  coals;  turn  frequently  to  prevent  scorching; 
when  done  butter  and  season  to  the  taste.  Chicken  prepared  in 
this  way  is  tender  and  juicy. 

BROILED  CHICKEN. 

None  but  young  and  tender  chickens  should  be  broiled.  They 
should  be  split  down  the  back,  and,  after  a  thorough  washing,  be 
wiped  dry.  Place  the  chicken,  inside  downward,  on  a  buttered  grid- 
iron. The  fire  should  be  clear  and  bright, with  no  smoke;  cover  with 
a  deep  plate  or  pan,  and  broil  till  cooked  through,  turning  several 
times  to  prevent  charring.  When  done,  lay  on  a  heated  platter, 
put  on  plenty  of  sweet  butter,  and  season  to  taste — serving  imme- 
diately. 

TO  FRY  CHICKEN. 

MRS.  TURNER. 

Season  the  chicken  with  salt  and  pepper,  before  rolling  in  flour; 
have  hot,  equal  proportions  of  lard  and  butter,  jn  sufficient  quan- 
tity to  cover  it  well;  let  it  fry  slowly  and  be  sure  not  to  let  it  burn; 
when  done,  take  it  out,  and  if  gravy  is  desired  pour  in  a  little  water 
or  milk,  and  thicken  with  flour  or  corn  starch. 

SMOTHERED   CHICKEN. 

MRS.   E.   S.  SPEED,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Split  up  the  back,  and  wash  thoroughly  in  two  or  three  waters; 
^ut  into  a  pan  to  bake,  and  salt  it  well;  add  a  little  pepper  if 
desired;  lay  a  lump  of  butter  on  the  breast,  pour  a  little  water  in 
the  pan;  a  very  small  piece  of  red  pepper  is  an  improvement.  If 
the  chicken  is  young,  cook  in  a  very  quick  oven  till  well  browned; 
baste  often. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

MRS.  J.   P.  FOSTER. 

Clean  and  cut  the  chickens  in  pieces  ready  to  serve.  Boil  them 
in  water  barely  to  cover  them  till  cooked  nearly  enough  for  the 
table;  skim  the  water  carefully.  Some  remove  the  skin  if  it  is 
very  thick.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  a  thick  paste  made  like  soda 
or  baking  powder  biscuit,  only  a  little  richer;  place  the  pieces  of 


POULTRY.  31 

chicken  in  layers;  such  as  have  bones  in  them  should  be  laid  from 
the  center  to  the  edge,  to  make  carving  more  easy.  Put  in  the 
hearts  and  livers,  sprinkle  each  layer  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper, 
lay  over  it  a  thin  slice  of  salt  pork,  or  a  small  piece  of  butter,  put- 
ting rather  more  seasoning  on  the  top  layer,  and  pour  over  all  as 
much  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  chickens  were  boiled  as  the  dish 
will  hold  without  danger  of  boiling  over.  Roll  the  upper 
crust  twice  as  thick  as  for  fruit  pies,  make  ai]  incision  for  the  steam 
to  pass  out,  and  lay  it  over  the  dish,  first  wetting  the  under  crust 
with  water,  so  the  edge  will  be  closed  tightly.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven  till  done. 

CHICKEN  PUDDING. 
Cut  up  as  for  fricassee,  and  stew  slowly  in  a  little  water;  season 
well  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  unless  there  is  salt  pork  with  it; 
in  about  an  hour  take  out  the  chickens  to  cool;  save  the  water  in 
which  they  Avere  stewed,  for  gravy.  Take  three  cups  of  flour,  a 
little  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  four  well  beaten 
eggs  and  a  quart  of  milk;  mix  together  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
baking  powder;  put  a  layer  of  chicken  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking 
dish  and  pour  over  enough  batter  to  cover  the  meat,  alternate  the 
layers  of  chicken  and  batter  till  the  dish  is  full;  let  the  batter  be 
on  the  top  to  form  the  crust.  Bake  moderately  till  done  through, 
and  the  crust  a  light  brown. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN. 

MRS.  C.  BOWElSr. 

Boil  the  chicken,  till  thoroughly  done,  seasoning  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  Then  take  out  and  remove  all  bones  and  skin, 
leaving  nearly  one  quart  of  liquor  in  the  kettle.  For  one  chicken 
dissolve  one  half  box  of  Coxe's  gelatine  in  one  cup  of  hot  water 
and  pour  into  the  liquor  with  the  chicken;  cook  a  few  minutes, 
then  turn  into  molds  and  set  away  to  cool.  Do  not  pick  the 
chicken  into  ver^'^  fine  pieces;  it  cuts  and  looks  much  rjicer  if  left  in 
large  pieces.  Slice  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  you  have  a  handsome 
and  most  palatable  dish  for  your  table. 

TO  MAKE  AN  OLD  FOWL  TENDER. 

Put  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  into  the  water  in  which  it 
is  boiled.  Strong  vinegar  may  be  used  but  is  not  so  good.  Citric 
acid  is  a  better  substitute — a  lump  the  size  of  a  large  pea. 


32  POULTRY. 

A  DRESSING  FOR  CHICKEN. 

MRS.  E.  S.  SPEED,  RTJSHVILLE,   ILLS. 

Take  as  much  bread  as  needed,  crumb  it  very  fine,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  sage,  to  suit  the  taste;  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
and  a-  tablespoonful  of  water;  boil  two  eggs  hard,  chop  fine  and 
mix  with  bread. 

TO  DRESS  A  PRAIRIE  CHICKEN. 
Lay  the  chicken  on  its  back,  head  towards  you;  with  a  sharp 
knife  cut  the  skin  through  on  the  breast  bone;  with  the  hands  pull 
the  skin  apart  down  from  off  the  breast  and  back,  to  the  point  of 
the  breast  bone,  then  cut  the  meat  and  ribs  off  from  the  back 
bone  by  running  the  knife  from  the  point  of  the  breast  bone  for- 
ward to  the  wing  joints  on  both  sides,  and  take  off  the  entire 
breast,  then  take  out  each  leg  by  skinning  it  and  unjointing  it  from 
the  body.  The  breast  and  legs  of  a  prairie  chicken  are  all  that 
it  is  profitable  to  cook. 

TO  FRY  PRAIRIE  CHICKEN. 

MRS,  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Take  the  legs  and  breast  of  a  young  prairie  chicken,  let  them 
lie  in  cold  salt  and  water  an  hour,  or  better  still,  with  salt  and  pep- 
per sprinkled  on  them  over  night.  Slice  the  breast  in  four  pieces, 
roll  it  and  the  legs  in  flour,  and  lay  in  hot  lard,  cover  tightly  and 
set  where  it  will  steam  till  nearly  done,  then  remove  the  cover, 
and  fry  a  light  brown. 

BROILED  PRAIRIE-CHICKEN. 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  for  frying,  wipe  dry  and  broil  over 
hot  coals;  none  but  the  most  tender  should  be  broiled,  unless 
first  steamed,  or  parboiled  in  very  little  water. 

STEWED   PRAIRIE   CHICKEN. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

When  chickens  are  too  old  to  broil  or  fry,  they  are  nice  prepar- 
ed as  follows:  After  dividing  them,  put  in  a  pan  with  sufficient 
water  to  just  cover  them;  slice  in  a  good  sized  onion  to  about 
two  chickens,  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Let  them  stew  very  sloio- 
ly  for  four  hours,  never  allowing  them  to  boil.  When  done,  thick- 
en the  liquid  with  butter  rubbed  in  flour. 


POULTRY.  33 

ROASTED   QUAIL. 

MRS.    J.    PARMELEE. 

Pick  and  clean  the  quails,  then  use  dressing  as  for  turkey  with 
addition  of  onion.  Put  in  a  dripping  pan  and  bake  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour,  basting  frequently.  They  are  nice  cold,  for  tea 
or  supper. 

TO  ROAST  PIGEONS. 
Pick  out  the  pinfeathers,  or  if  too  many,  pull  oif  the  skin;  clean 
the  inside  thoroughly;  soak  half  an  hour  in  considerable  water 
to  take  out  the  blood ;  boil  half  an  hour,  with  a  little  salt  in  the 
water,  and  take  oif  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises;  take  them  out, 
fiour  well  and  place  in  a  dripping  pan;  strain  the  water  in  which 
they  were  boiled  and  put  part  of  it  in  the  pan  with  a  small  piece 
of  butter,  and  baste  the  pigeons;  add  pepper  as  you  choose. 
Roast  them  nearly  two  hours. 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Clean  and  wipe  dry  your  duck;  prepare  the  stuflBngthus:  chop 
fine  and  throw  into  cold  water  three  good  sized  onions,  cut  one 
large  spoonful  of  sage  leaves  and  mix  with  bread  crumbs  and  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  drain  the  onions,  and  add 
with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  these  together  and  stuiF  the 
duck  well;  dredge  and  baste  like  a  turkey.  Ccok  an  ordinary 
sized  duck  over  an  hour.  A  nice  gravy  is  made  by  straining  the 
drippings;  skim  off  all  the  fat,  then  stir  in  a  spoonful  of. browned 
flour  and  a  teaspoon ful  of  mixed  mustard.  Serve  hot.  Currant 
jelly  is  necessary  with  duck. 

TO  BOIL  DUCK. 

MRS.    S.  MERRILL. 

Scald  and  lay  them  in  water  a  few  minutes,  then  lay  them  in  a 
dish,  pour  boiling  milk  over  them,  and  let  them  lie  in  it  two  or 
three  minutes;  take  them  out,  dredge  with  flour  and  put  them  in 
a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  cover  close  and  boil  twenty  minutes; 
take  them  out,  cover,  and  set  where  they  will  keep  warm,  and 
make  the  sauce  as  follows  :  chop  a  large  onion  and  a  bunch  of 
parsley  fine  and  put  therein  a  gill  of  gravy;  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter; 
stew  them  half  an  hour,  then  lay  the  ducks  into  a  dish  and  pour 
the  sauce  over  them. 
3 


34  POULTRY. 

SMOTHERED  DUCK. 

MRS.  J.  ANKENEY. 

Pick  and  dress  as  turkey,  and  put  in  a  pot  with  a  pint  of  water; 
add  salt,  pepper  and  a  piece  of  butter;  tie  a  cloth  on  the  pot,  and 
cover  air  tight  as  nearly  as  possible.  Stew  slowly  for  four  or  five 
hours. 

ROAST  WILD  DUCK. 

MRS.   J.  P.  f6sTER. 

Parboil  in  water  with  a  little  salt,  placing  an  onion  in  each  duck 
to  absorb  the  fishy  taste  that  some  ducks  have;  if  onion  is  not 
agreeable,  a  carrot  is  said  to  answer  the  same  purpose.  When 
boiled,  take  the  duck  and  stuff  as  you  would  turkey,  except  that 
onion  seems  to  be  necessary.  Roast  till  brown  and  tender,  bast- 
ing with  butter  and  water  at  first,  then  with  the  drippings.  Make 
a  gravy  by  taking  off  the  superfluous  fat  and  thickening  with 
browned  flour. 


MS^S^H. 


HE  most  desirable  requisite  to  make    the  following  re- 
ceipts good  and  practical,  is  good  meat.       There  is  no 


[[^^  ^  cook  in  the  world  who  can  broil  a  "chuck  steak"  into  a 
kj^  sirloin,  or  roast  old  ox-beef  into  a  tender  "rib  roast,"  or 
Y     make  a  savory  bit  of  mutton  out  of  an  old,  tough  sheep. 

'  The  cook  may  do  much  towards  supplying  the  want  of  real 
goodness  in  the  meat,  by  skillful  labor,  but  to  place  on  the  table 
the  choicest  dishes,  the  best  of  meats  are  necessary.  Every  good 
cook  should  know  how  to  select  the  best  meats,  instead  of  de- 
pending on  the  butcher. 

Beef,  to  be  the  best,  should  be  from  a  young  steer — killed  at 
three  to  four  years  old — after  having  been  fattened  as  quickly  as 
possible,  on  good,  rich  food.  THe  quicker  beef  is  fattened,  the 
richer  and  more  tender  it  is,  and  beef  of  this  class  has  a  bright, 
rich,  red,  juicy  look,  while  poor  beef  looks  dark,  dry,  acid  a  brown- 
ish red  color. 

The  best  cuts  for  steaks  are  from  the  hind  quarter,  the  loin 
being  generally  chosen  as  the  best,  but  many  prefer  the  round, 
because,  while  not  so  tender,  it  is  more  juicy. 

For  roasting,  rib  cuts  are  the  best,  the  bone  being  removed 
from  the  meat,  it  being  skewered  so  that  it  comes  on  the  table 
rolled.  There  is,  however,  a  difference  of  taste  and  fancy  as  to 
removing  the  bones  before  cooking.  Some  real  epicures  think 
the  bones  give  the  meat  a  richness  of  flavor  not  attainable  with- 
out them. 

The  fore-shoulder  furnishes  nice  pieces  for  stewing  and  boiling, 
and  an  experienced  butcher  will  supply  a  few  very  eatable  steaks 
from  it.  Corned  beef  usually  comes  from  the  fore-quarter,  but 
butchers  generally  corn  nearly  every  part  which  they  fail  to  sell 
fresh. 

35 


36  MEATS. 


VEAL. 


The  calf  matures  much  more  rapidly  than  the  lamb  and,  if  well 
fed  and  cared  for,  may  be  killed  at  five  weeks  old,  though,  in  the 
great  majority  of  cases,  the  veal  improves  very  rapidly  during  the 
sixth  and  seventh  weeks  of  the  calf's  age,  and  it  will  pay  the 
owner  to  feed  a  calf  during  these  two  weeks.  Calves  are  some- 
times killed  at  four  weeks  old,  but  the  meat  is  soft,  and  too  tender 

to  either  cook  or  eat,  and  is  very  unwholesome. 

» 

MUTTON. 

In  selecting  mutton,  choose,  as  a  rule,  a  medium  sized  sheep,  or 
a  small  one.  The  flesh  should  have  a  clear,  fresh  hue,  and  the 
fat,  especially  around  the  kidneys,  look  fat,  rich,  and  rather  oily, 
and  a  clear  white,  not  a  dull  whitish  color,  and  not  dry.  For 
roasting,  the  loin  is  the  choice  cut;  but  the  fore-shoulder,  when 
properly  boned,  stuffed  and  basted,  is  very  nice.  The  leg  is  for 
boiling,  or  chops. 

The  age  at  which  lambs  furnish  the  best  meat,  extends  from 
three  to  ten  months,  and  at  ten,  most  lambs  become  sufficiently 
developed  to  be  called  mutton.  Like  mutton,  the  hind-quarter  is 
the  best;  but  if  the  fore-quarter  be  prepared  properly,  it  is  rich 
and  good,  and  many  prefer  it  to  the  hind- quarter. 

CARE  OF  FAT  MEAT  AND  DRIPPINGS. 

When  meat  has  more  fat  than  is  desirable  to  cook  with  it,  the 
fat  should  be  trimmed  off,  such  pieces  as  are  nice  should  be  cut 
small  and  put  in  a  vessel  with  a  little  water,  and  stewed  slowly 
till  the  fat  is  extracted  and  the  water  boiled  out,  then  strained  in 
a  dish.  Any  surplus  fat  in  the  drippings  of  a  roast  may  be  add- 
ed also,  and  when  meat  is  boiled,  the  fat  that  rises  on  the  top 
should  be  saved.  It  is  well  to  clarify  all  such  fat  by  putting  it 
into  a  kettle  to  melt  slowly,  stirring  occasionally  till  it  looks 
clear,  then  strain  and  set  away  for  use.  This  saves  butter,  for  it 
may  be  mixed  in  equal  proportions  with  that  or  lard,  for  ginger 
cakes  or  pie  crust.  By  some  it  is  considered  more  healthy  for 
frying  doughnuts  than  lard.  It  needs  careful  watching  to  see 
that  it  does  not  grow  stale;  it  is  necessary  to  clarify  it  quite  often 
in  summer,  but  it  will  keep  longer  in  winter;  keep  it  in  tin  or  good 


MEATS.  37 

solid  stone  jars  that  will  not  absorb  tlie  grease  and  grow  rancid. 
Mutton  is  not  good  to  put  with  other  fat,  being  too  hard  and  tallowy. 
All  refuse  grease  should  be  saved  for  making  soap. 

A  FRENCH  WAY  OF  COOKING  MEATS 

MRS.    HILL,  MUSCATINE,  lA. 

Any  kind  of  a  piece  of  meat,  rubbed  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  put  into  a  covered  tin  pail,  placed  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  and  cooked  till  done,  will  be  found  very  juicy  and  tender. 
The  water  must  be  kept  boiling  all  the  time.  A  delicious  gravy 
can  be  made  from  the  juice  of  the  meat. 

ROAST   BEEF. 

To  roast  in  a  cooking  stove,  the  fire  must  have  careful  attention 
lest  the  meat  should  burn.  Lay  it,  well  floured,  and  seasoned,  into  a 
dripping  pan,  with  rather  more  than  enough  water  to  cover  the 
bottom,  turn  the  pan  around  often,  that  all  parts  may  be  equally 
roasted,  and  baste  frequently.  The  oven  should  be  quite  hot  when 
the  beef  is  first  put  in  that  the  outside  may  cook  quickly  and  thus 
retain  the  juices.  A  large  roast  of  8  or  10  pounds  is  much  better 
and  more  economical  than  a  small  one,  even  in  a  small  family. 
The  first  day  it  can  be  served  rare;  that  which  is  near  the  outside 
will  be  well  enough  cooked  for  any  one.  It  can  be  re-roasted  on 
the  next  day.  If  much  remains  serve  cold  on  the  next,  or  cut  in 
very  thin  slices,  dip  each  one  in  flour,  then  chop  two  onions  fine, 
place  a  layer  of  meat  in  a  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt 
pepper  and  onions;  above  this,  place  a  layer  of  sliced  or  canned 
tomatoes;  alternate  the  layers  till  the  dish  is  nearly  full,  moisten- 
ing with  the  gravy;  place  a  layer  of  tomatoes  upon  the  top,  fill 
with  boiling  water,  cover  with  a  plate,  and  bake  two  hours. 

ROAST  BEEF. 

MRS.    M.    P.    TURNER. 

A  10  pound  roast  is  the  nicest.  Put  it  into  a  hot  oven  and  let 
it  crisp  over,  as  soon  as  possible,  to  keep  all  the  juice  inside  the 
meat.  After  the  meat  is  well  browned,  put  a  little  boiling  water 
into  the  dripping  pan,  grease  a  paper,  two  or  three  thicknesses,  and 
lay  over  the  meat,  then  turn  a  dripping  pan  over  all. 


38  MEATS, 

BEEF  A  r.A  MODE. 

MRS.  C.  P.  KEEVES. 

Take  a  tender,  fresh  round,  take  out  the  bone  and  with  a  sharp 
knife  make  many  deep  incisions,  then  wash  and  season  well  with 
pepper  and  salt.  For  the  dressing,  crumb  the  soft  part  of  a  ba- 
ker's loaf,  to  which  add  1  teaspoonful  of  sweet  marjoi'am,  1  of 
sweet  basil,  2  small  onions,  mixed  tine,  2  or  3  small  blades  of 
mace  finely  powdered;  salt  and  pepper.  Rub  well  together  with 
six  ounces  of  butter,  fill  the  incisions,  and  tie  tape  around  the  meat 
to  keep  in  place.     Bake  until  well  done. 

STEWED  BRISKET  OF  BEEF. 

Put  three  or  four  pounds  of  brisket  into  a  kettle  and  cover  it 
with  water;  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  let  it  boil  steadily 
two  hours;  take  it  from  the  kettle  and  brown  it  with  butter  in  a 
spider;  when  it  is  browned  on  every  side,  return  it  to  the  kettle 
and  stew  it  gently  five  hours  more;  add  more  water  if  it  boils 
away;  pat  in  a  few  cloves,  salt  and  pepper,  as  you'  think  neces- 
sary. Half  an  hour  before  dinner  add  tomato  or  mushroom 
catsup.     The  water  in  which  it  was  stewed  is  a  nice  soup. 

STEWED  BEEF. 

MRS.  J.   M.  OTIS. 

The  ends  of  the  slices  of  "Porterhouse"  steak  are  nice  for 
stewing.  In  this  case,  have  the  thin  part  cut  off  before  the  meat 
is  sliced.  Cover  the  piece  to  stew  with  boiling  water,  and  cook 
till  every  partis  perfectly  tender;  season  when  two-thirds  cooked. 
The  water  must  be  entirely  cooked  away  to  ratain  the  sweetness 
of  the  meat. " 

BROILED   STEAK.  ^ 

MRS.   J.  M.  OTIS. 

Select  your  steak  carefully.  The  wide  end  of  the  slice  of 
"Porterhouse"  is  nice,  or  the  "loin."  Have  the  gridiron  hot  and 
'  buttered,  and  over  hot  coals;  place  the  beef  upon  the  gridiron, 
and  cook  till  the  blood  begins  to  start  upon  the  upper  side  before 
turning,  if  the  fire  is  not  too  hot.  To  retain  the  juice,  beef 
should  be  cooked  rapidly  at   first.     Turn   frequently  rather  than 


MEATS.  39 

scorch.  When  done,  remove  to  the  platter  and  season  to  the 
taste.  Use  no  salt  while  cooking.  This  prevents  the  blood  from 
escaping. 

BEEF  STEAK  ROLL. 

MRS.   G.  A.  PRITCHARD. 

Select  a  nice,  tender,  sirloin  steak;  pound  it  well,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper;  then  make  a  nice  dressing  of  chopped  bread,  well  but- 
tered, salted  and  peppered,  with  a  little  sage,  and  mixed  together 
with  a  very  little  warm  water.  Spread  this  on  the  meat,  then 
begin  at  one  end  and  roll  it  together;  tie  with  strings.  Put  into 
a  dripping-pan  with  a  little  water.  Bake  about  tliree-quarters  of 
an  hour.     To  be  eaten  warm,  or  sliced  cold  for  tea. 

BEEF  STEAK  AND  ONIONS. 

Take  thick  beefsteak,  (that  which  is  not  so  tender  will  answer,) 
cut  it  in  pieces  ready  to  serve;  put  into  a  spider  with  a  little  hot 
water;  slice  up  three  or  four  onions,  and  stew  very  slowly  several 
hours.  Let  the  water  boil  out  and  the  meat  become  brown,  then 
stir  flour  into  the  fat  which  has  come  from  the  meat.  If  there  is 
too  much,  take  some  out  and  pour  on  boiling  water,  and  stir  till 
the  flour  is  cooked.  Pour  the  meat  and  gravy  into  a  deep  dish  or 
platter,  and  serve. 

Bay  leaves,  which  can  be  obtained  at  the  druggists,  are  a  good 
substitute  for  those  who  do  not  like  onions,  but  the  leaves  should 
be  taken  out  before  sending  to  the  table.  ^ 

TOMATO  STEAK. 

MRS.    S.  MERRILL. 

Take  two  pounds  of  beef,  cut  it  in  small  strips,  and  put  it  into 
a  pot  with  seven  medium  sized  tomatoes;  stew  it  very  slowly; 
add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  salt,  a  little  clove,  and,  ju^  be- 
fore you  take  it  up,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  butter.  If  you  have 
tomato  catsup,  add  a  little,  and,  if  you  like,  chopped  onion.  This 
is  a  good  rule  for  cooking  beef  that  is  tough,  as  it  renders  it  more 
palatable  than  most  other  ways.  Some  think  this  dish  is  better 
when  heated  over,  the  next  day. 


40  MEATS. 

BEEFSTEAK  FOR  THE  OLD. 

Take  coarse,  lean  beef,  with  a  small  quantity  of  suet;  run 
it  through  a  sausage  cutter,  or  chop  very  fine;  add  pepper 
and  salt;  make  into  cakes  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  and 
cook  as  you  would  beefsteak.  The  poor  will  find  it  cheap,  and 
the  rich,  nearly  as  good  as  the  choicest  cuts. 

BEEF  BALL. 

MISS  LIZZIE  SMITH. 

3  lbs.  choice  beef  (rare)  chopped  fine,  10  butter  crackers  crush- 
ed thoroughly,  ^  tea  cup  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste,  ^ 
cup  water.  Mix  all  well  together,  press  down  hard  in  pans,  dip 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  water  in  which  the  beef  was  boiled  over  the 
top  and  bake  1^  or  2  hours.     Slice  when  cold. 

BEEF  OMELET. 

MRS.  W.  H.  CLEGHORN. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  good  beefsteak  chopped  fine,  one 
cup  suet,  two  slices  of  wheat  bread  soaked  in  water,  two  eggs 
and  half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Mold  into  a  loaf  or  roll  and  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour,  basting 
frequently. 

SPICED  BEEF. 

Chop  tough  beefsteak,  raw,  and  a  piece  of  suet  the  size  of  an 
egg;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  summer  savory;  add 
two  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream,  a  small  piece  of  butter;  mix  and  make  into  a  roll,  with 
flour  sufficient  to  keep  together.  Put  in  a  pan  with  a  little  drip- 
pings and  water,  and  bake  as  a  roast.     Slice  thin  when  cold. 

TO  BOIL  CORNED  BEEF. 

Wash  it  thoroughly  and  put  into  a  pot  that  will  hold  plenty  of 
water;  the  water  should  be  cold;  skim  with  great  care;  allow 
forty  minutes  for  every  pound  after  it  has  begun  to  boil.  The 
goodness  depends  much  on  its  being  boiled  gently  and  long.  If 
it  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  lay  it  in  a  vessel  which  will  admit  of  its 
being  pressed  with  a  heavy  weight,  as  salt  meat  is  very  much 
improved  by  pressing. 


ME  A  TS.  41 

CORNED  BEEF. 

MRS.  M.  E.  KELLOGG. 

To  have  good  corned  beef,  select  a  good  piece  of  brisket  or 
flank,  and  put  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water;  throw  in  a  handful 
of  salt,  or  enough  to  suit  the  taste,  and  boil  till  tender;  then  add 
potatoes,  turnips  and  cabbage,  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork.  This 
makes  a  good  Yankee  dinner,  superior  to  beef  pickled  in  brine. 

TO  MAKE  TOUGH  BEEF  TENDER. 

MES.  CHAELES   SWEENEY. 

Cut  the  steak,  the  day  before  using,  into  slices  about  two 
inches  thick;  rub  over  them  a  small  quantity  of  carbonate  of  soda; 
wash  off  next  morning;  cut  into  suitable  thickness;  ccok  to 
suit  the  taste. 

BOILED  TONGUE. 

MES.   J.  B.   STEWAET. 

Boil  and  skim;  sprinkle  some  flour  over  it;  put  in  cloves,  and 
turn  a  cup  of  jelly  over  it.     Bake  moderately  fifteen  minutes. 

BAKED  TONGUE. 

MES.  M.  E.  KELLOGG. 

Season  with  common  salt,  a  very  little  salt-petre,  half  a  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  pepper,  cloves,  mace  and  allspice,  powdered  fine. 
Let  it  remain  for  a  fortnight,  then  take  out  the  tongue,  put  it  in 
a  pan;  lay  on  some  butter;  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake 
slowly  till  so  tender  that  a  straw  will  easily  go  through  it.  To  be 
eaten  cold.     Will  keep  a  long  time,  and  is  very  nice  for  tea. 

FRIED  LIVER. 

Cut  it  in  slices,  and  lay  in  cold  salt  water  to  draw  out  the  blood. 
Some  place  it  over  a  slow  fire  till  the  liver  turns  white.  Take  it 
out,  roll  each  piece  in  flour  or  bread  crumbs,  season  and  put  in 
hot  lard.  Cover,  and  cook  slowly,  till  the  liver  is  tender,  then 
uncover  and  fry  quickly  till  brown.  Another  way  is  to  pour 
boiling  water  on  the  liver  for  a  few  moments,  and  proceed  as 
above. 


42  MEATS. 

TO  FRY  TRIPE. 

MRS.  A.  Y.  EAWSON. 

Cut  in  pieces  convenient  for  serving;  beat  an  egg  lightly  and 
dip  each  piece  in  the  Qg^.  Have  your  frying-pan  hot  and  fry 
brown  in  butter.  It  will  take  a  good  deal  of  butter  to  make  it 
nice  and  keep  from  burning. 

TO  COOK  DRIED  BEEF. 

MRS.  J.   M.  OTIS. 

Chip  the  beef  as  for  the  table;  put  it  in  a  basin  of  cold  water, 
and  set  it  in  a  warm  (not  hot)  place.  Put  a  bowl  of  cream  in  a 
stew-pan  over  the  fire,  and  when  hot,  shake  in  flour  from  the 
dredging-box,  till  it  is,  on  boiling,  of  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream;  set  off  the  stew-pan,  and  add  to  the  thickened  cream  the 
beef  which  has  been  drained  from  the  water,  and  it  is  ready  for 
the  table.  The  quantity  of  water  used,  and  the  length  of  time  it 
is  allowed  to  remain  in  the  water,  will  necessarily  depend  upon 
the  saltness  of  the  beef.     Fifteen  minutes  is  usually  sufficient. 

HOW  TO  FRY  DRIED  BEEF. 

MRS.  T.  HUNT. 

It  is  nice  shaved  off  with  a  plane;  then  put  it  into  a  hot  frying- 
pan,  with  butter  to  fry  it  until  brown.  Put  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  then  pour  in  hot  water  enough  to  make  a  gravy.  Let  it 
stew  a  moment  before  taking  it  up. 

TO  WARM  OVER  COLD  MEATS. 

MRS.  S.  MACY,  NEWPORT,  R.  I. 

Take  the  pieces  of  cold  steak  or  roast  and  put  into  a  stew-pan, 
and  nearly  cover  with  water;  slice  in  two  or  three  onions;  add 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  stew  until  very  tender;  mix  a  little 
flour  in  cold  water  and  stir  in  to  thicken  the  gravy.  Tough  steak 
is  nice  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

MEAT  BALLS. 

MRS.  M.    R.  KELLOGG. 

Chop  fine  any  kind  of  cold  meat;  mix  it  with  one  or  two  eggs, 
and  some  butter;  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle 
over  flour;  roll  it  in  balls  and  fry  brown  in  hpt  lard. 


MEATS.  43 

HASH. 

MES.  ANDREWS. 

Chop  cold  beef  to  a  fine  hash,  and  season  it;  mash  and  season 
hot  boiled  potatoes,  and  place  them  around  a  flat  dish  for  a  bor- 
der, two  or  three  inches  in  width;  put  the  hash  in  the  center  and 
cover  with  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  put  into  the  oven  and  brown. 

HASH  ON  TOAST. 

MRS.  J.   B.  STEWART. 

Cold  pieces  of  beefsteak  are  nice,  chopped  fine,  cooked  in  a 
little  butter  and  water,  and  thickened  with  flour;  pour  over  pieces 
of  toast  laid  on  a  platter,  and  moistened  with  hot  water,  salted. 
Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

HASH,  WITH  POTATOES. 

MRS.   J.  P.   FOSTER. 

Cold  pieces  of  beef,  either  boiled,  broiled  or  baked,  can  be  used 
for  the  dish.  Free  the  meat  from  all  pieces  of  bone,  chop  fine, 
and  mix  with  two  parts  of  potatoes  to  one  of  beef.  Potatoes 
boiled  with  the  skins  on  are  best.  They  should  be  cold,  and 
chopped  not  quite  so  fine  as  the  meat.  Put  them  in  a  spider  with 
melted  butter  or  clarified  drippings,  and  just  enough  hot  water  to 
keep  from  burning.  Season  to  taste,  and  keep  stirring  till  the 
whole  is  cooked  together.  If  liked  crisped,  let  it  remain  still  long 
enough  to  bake  a  crust  on  the  bottom,  and  then  turn  out  on  a  flat 
dish.     Other  meats  may  be  used  instead  of  beef. 

BEEF  AND  MUTTON  PIE. 
Take  slices  of  tender  meat,  pound  thin  and  broil  ten  min- 
utes; cut  off  the  gristly  and  bony  parts;  season  it  highly  with 
salt  and  pepper;  butter,  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Line  a 
pudding-dish  with  pastry;  put  in  the  meat,  and  to  each  layer  put 
a  teaspoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  water. 
Sprinkle  flour  over  the  whole  and  cover  it  with  pie- crust,  having 
a  slit  in  the  center  of  it.  Lay  strips  of  pastry  over,  so  as  to  give 
it  a  tasteful  appearance,  and  bake  it  about  an  hour.  Cooked 
mutton,  and  roast  beef  or  broiled  beef,  can  be  made  into  a  good 
pie.  Cut  them  into  small  pieces,  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
add  gravy,  or  butter  and  water,  till  you  can  see  it  at  the  top. 


44  MEATS. 

MOCK  TERRAPIN. 

MES.   M.  R.  KELLOGG. 

Take  half  a  calf's  liver,  season,  and  fry  brown;  chop  it,  not 
very  fine,  and  dredge  thickly  with  flour;  add  two  boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine,  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  very  little  cayenne 
pepper,  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  ^^'g\  pour  on  a  teacup- 
ful  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Veal  is  very  nice  to 
use  instead  of  liver,  when  preferred.     This  is  a  good  supper  dish. 

PRESSED  MEAT. 

MISS  LIZZIE  SMITH. 

Boil  till  very  tender,  and  pick  apart  with  the  fingers,  not  using 
a  knife  at  all;  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  pour  over 
enough  of  the  liquor  the  meat  is  boiled  in  to  make  it  moist; 
press  tight  over  night  and  slice  thin.     Nice  for  chicken  or  veal. 

ROAST  VEAL. 

The  shoulder,  loin  and  fillet  are  the  best  pieces  for  roasting. 
The  loin  is  considered  the  choicest.  Veal  is  less  juicy  than  beef, 
and  requires  more  basting.  When  nearly  done,  baste  it  with 
melted  butter,  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  let  it  brown  nicely  before 
taking  up.  For  the  gravy,  mix  flour  with  the  fat  in  the  pan,  or  a 
little  butter,  and  stir  into  the  drippings.     Serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

SHOULDER  OF  VEAL.   . 

Remove  the  bone,  and  fill  the  space  it  occupied  with  a  dressing 
made  as  for  turkey  or  chicken ;  keep  well  basted  and  proceed  as 
with  the  above.  A  fillet  of  veal  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
■way,  by  removing  the  leg  bone  with  a  sharp  knife. 

.     TO  FRY  VEAL  STEAK. 

MRS.  BELLE  WARD. 

Cut  out  all  the  bone  and  fat,  putting  the  fat  into  the  frying  pan 
to  try  out  while  you  prepare  the  steak;  pound  the  steak  quite 
thin,  and  season  well  wiMi  salt  and  pepper;  then  dip  into  a 
mixture  of  Q^^  and  bread  crumbs,  and  lay  into  the  hot  fat,  frying 
thoroughly  until  brown. 


MEATS.  45 

SPICED  VEAL. 

MRS.  G.  R.  OSGOOD. 

Chop  three  pounds  of  veal  steak  and  one  thick  slice  of  salt 
pork,  as  fine  as  sa,usage  meat;  add  to  it  three  Boston  crackers, 
rolled  fine;  half  a  teacup  of  tomato  catsup,  three  well-beaten 
eggs,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  pepper, 
and  one  grated  lemon;  mould  it  in  the  form  of  a  loaf  of  bread, 
put  it  into  a  small  dripping  pan,  cover  with  one  rolled  cracker, 
and  baste  with  a  teacupful  of  hot  water  and  two  tablespoons  of 
butter.     Bake  three  hours,  basting  very  often. 

VEAL  OR  LAMB  PATTIES. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

Use  cold  veal  or  lamb;  chop  fine,  taking  equal  parts  of  meat 
and  bread  crumbs;  season  with  sage,  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten 
with  eggs  and  melted  butter,  or  gravies  from  the  meat;  make 
into  little  cakes,  and  fry  in  butter  till  well  browned. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

MRS.  F.  CORNING. 

Three  pounds  of  veal;  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork, 
three  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine;  six  crackers,  pounded  fine; 
two  teaspoons  of  pepper,  two  tablespoons  of  salt;  mix  well, 
and  make  into  two  loaves;  bake  two  hours;  baste  with  butter 
and  water. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

MRS.   R.  A.  BUNKER,  SPRINGFIELD,  ILL. 

Three  pounds  of  veal,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  salt  pork, 
both  chopped  fine;  two  pounded  crackers,  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
one  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons  of  pepper,  two  teaspoons  of 
chopped  parsley,  two  teaspoons  of  celery,  and  the  rind  and 
juice  of  one  lemon.  Put  batter  on  the  loaf  after  kneading.  Bake 
in  a  roll,  two  hours. 

VEAL  OMELET. 

MRS.  T.  E.  BROWN.  ,  t    • 

Three  pounds  of  raw  veal,  chopped  fine;  two  p©»»ds  of  boiled 
pork,  also  chopped;  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  milk,  beaten 


46  MEATS. 

with  the  eggs,  four  Boston  crackers,  pounded  fine;  two  tea- 
spoons of  pepper,  a  scant  tablespoon  of  salt— ^sage  to  taste.  Mix 
well  together  in  the  shape  of  a  loaf,  and  bake  two  hours.  Baste 
often  with  melted  butter  and  water. 

MOTTLED  VEAL. 
Boil  an  equal  number  of  pounds  of  salt  tongue  and  lean  veal 
separately;  boil  with  the  veal  half  a  cup  of  rice  to  whiten  it,  but 
separate  it  from  the  veal  afterwards;  when  the  meats  are  quite 
cold,  chop  each  very  fine;  season  the  tongue  with  pepper,  sage 
or  savory,  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cloves  and 
of  cinnamon.  The  veal  can  be  seasoned  the  same  way,  with  the 
addition  of  salt;  moisten  a  little  with  the  water  in  which  the  veal 
was  boiled,  and  have  bowls,  or  some  small  jars,  well  buttered; 
put  in  alternate  spoonfuls  of  tongue  and  veal,  so  as  to  have  the 
light  and  dark  meat  in  irregular  spots;  pack  in  tightly,  smooth 
over  the  top,  pour  on  melted  butter  and  set  away  to  cool; 
when  cool,  cover  tightly.  This  keeps  some  time,  and  when 
turned  out  and  sliced  thin,  is  a  pretty,  as  well  as  a  savory  dish. 

SCALLOPED  VEAL. 

MES.   A.  L.  TRISBIE. 

Take  cold  veal,  either  baked  or  boiled;  chop  it  fine;  put  a  layer 
in  the  bottom  of  a  bettered  pudding-dish,  and  moisten  with 
gravy;  water  in  which  the  bones  and  refuse  pieces  of  the  meat 
have  been  boiled,  answers  nicely' ;  spread  on  this  a  layer  of  cracker 
crumbs  wet  with  milk,  and  thus  alternate  until  the  dish  is  full, 
beating  an  ^g^  with  the  cracker  that  is  to  form  the  top  layer.  A 
little  ham,  chopped  with  the  veal,  greatly  improves  it. 

Remnants  of  spare-rib  or  of  ham  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

»  VEAL    POT-PIE. 

Cut  in  pieces  ready  for  serving;  add  two  or  three  slices  of 
ham  or  salt  pork;  stew  very  gently  till  nearly  done.  A  few 
moments  before  serving,  have  ready  a  crust  made  as  for  baking 
powder  biscuits  but  rather  richer;  roll  and  cut  in  small  squares, 
drop  in  the  boiling  gravy,  cover,  and  let  it  boil  till  the  crust  rises 
to  the  top  and  is  cooked.  Serve  immediately,  or  the  crust  will 
become  heavy.     Season  to  taste  before  putting  in  the  crust. 


MEATS.  47 

VEAL  SAUSAGES. 

Take  two  pounds  of  lean  veal  and  one  pound  of  salt  fat  pork; 
grind  as  for  sausage  meat,  and  season  in  the  same  way — that  is, 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  such  sweet  herbs  as  you  prefer.  Fry  a 
light  brown. 

TO  ROAST  A  SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON. 

Season  and  roast  the  same  as  beef,  basting  with  butter  and 
water  till  there  is  gravy  enough  to  use.  It  requires  to  be  cooked 
more  than  beef.     Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

TO  COOK  A  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

MRS.  BELLE  WARD. 

Put  the  mutton  into  warm  water,  with  salt  and  one  small  red 
pepper;  boil  until  tender,  allowing  the  water  to  boil  nearly  away; 
then  take  it  out,  and  if  not  seasoned  enough,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper  and  flour,  place  in  a  hot  oven  with  the  broth,  and 
bake  half  an  hour,  basting  often  until  the  meat  is  a  light  brown. 

MUTTON  CHOPS. 

Trim  off  the  superfluous  fat,  and  broil  over  a  bright  fire ;  season 
and  butter  them  when  cooked;  do  not  have  them  rare.  They 
can  also  be  fried  by  first  dredging  with  flour  or  bread  crumbs. 

FILLET  OF  MUTTON. 

Cut  a  fillet,  or  round,  from  a  leg  of  mutton;  remove  all  the 
fat  from  the  edges,  and  take  out  the  bone;  rub  it  all  over 
with  a  very  little  pepper  and  salt;  have  ready  a  stuffing  of  finely 
minced  onions,  bread  crumbs  and  butter,  well  seasoned  and 
mixed;  fill  with  this  the  place  of  the  bone;  make  deep  incisions 
or  cuts  all  over  the  surface  of  the  meat  and  fill  them  closely  with 
the  same  stuffing;  bind  a  piece  of  cloth  around  the  meat  to  keep 
it  in  shape,  and  stew  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  it;  let  it 
cook  slowly  and  steadily  from  four  to  six  hours,  in  proportion  to 
its  size  and  toughness,  skimming  frequently.  When  done,  serve 
with  its  own  gravy. 


48  MEATS. 

MUTTON  FRICASSEE. 

MRS.  J.  KUHN. 

Cut  the  meat  up  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in  boiling  butter; 
spice  with  cloves,  nutmeg,  onions,  salt  and  bay  leaf;  after  frying 
till  brown,  pour  boiling  water  over  it;  cover  and  boil  slowly 
about  an  hour. 

MUTTON  CROQUETTES, 

Remove  the  fat  and  skin  from  cold  mutton,  mince  it  fine  as 
possible,  season,  and  make  up  with  the  gravy  into  little  oval 
balls;  dip  in  o,^'^  and  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  brown. 

LAMB  WITH  RICE. 

Partly  roast  a  small  fore-quarter  of  lamb;  cut  it  in  pieces,  and 
lay  in  a  dish;  season,  and  pour  over  it  a  little  water;  boil  a  pint 
of  rice  till  dry,  salt  it,  and  stir  in  a  piece  of  butter,  also  the  yolks 
of  four  well-beaten  eggs,  only  reserving  enough  to  put  over  the 
top;  spread  the  rice  and  the  remainder  of  the  eggs  over  the  lamb, 
to  form  a  covering;  bake  a  light  brown. 

STEWED  LAMB  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

For  a  large  dish,  take  a  quarter  of  nice  lamb  and  cut  it  into 
steaks;  remove  the  skin  and  all  the  fat;  season  the  steaks  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  if  liked,  a  little  nutmeg;  lay  them  in  a 
kettle  and  pour  on  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew 
gently  for  an  hour,  skimming  when  necessary;  then  add  a  quart 
or  more  of  young  green  peas,  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar,  and  some  bits 
of  fresh  butter;  let  it  cook  slowly  till  the  peas  are  well  done. 
Take  them  up  together,  or  serve  in  separate  dishes. 

IRISH  STEW. 

Take  five  or  six  mutton  chops;  the  same  quantity  of  beef,  veal 
and  pork;  six  or  eight  Irish  potatoes,  peeled  and  quartered;  three 
or  four  onions  sliced,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  add  a  pint  of 
good  gravy,  flavored  with  catsup,  if  liked.  Cover  all  very  closely, 
and  let  it  simmer  slowly  for  two  hours  (never  allowing  it  to  stop 
simmering).  A  slice  or  two  of  ham  is  an  improvement.  Stir 
occasionally  to  prevent  burning. 


MEATS.  49 

ROAST  PIG. 
A  pig,  to  be  right  for  roasting,  should  be  from  a  month  to  six 
weeks  old.  A  very  essential  thing  is  to  see  that  your  butcher 
has  done  his  part  in  cleansing  it  thoroughly.  Examine  every 
part — the  ears,  mouth  and  Avhole  head,  also  the  fat;  if  the  hair 
should  not  all  be  removed,  immerse  it  in  hot  water  and  scrape  all 
•out.  Wash  the  whole,  inside  and  out,  wipe  dry,  and  wrap 
immediately  in  a  wet  cloth  to  keep  it  from  the  air.  For  stuffing, 
take  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  seasoned  as  you  prefer,  and  moisten 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  mix  all  together, 
with  a  half  cup  of  warm  water  or  milk  and  two  eggs  well  beaten;, 
then  stuff  the  pig  into  his  natural  size  and  shape,  sew  him  up  and 
bend  his  feet  under,  close  up  to  his  body,  and  skewer  them  there; 
dredge  with  flour,  and  put  into  a  pan  with  a  little  hot  water; 
baste  with  butter  first,  then  with  the  drippings;  when  it  begins  to 
cook,  rub  it  over  every  few  minutes  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  melted 
butter — this  makes  the  skin  soft  and  tender.  It  will  require  as 
much  as  two  hours  to  cook  well,  perhaps  more.  Send  to  the 
table  whole,  garnished  with  parsley  and  celery  tops.  Skim  the 
gravy  well  and  thicken  with  brown  flour;  add  a  little  hot  water 
if  necessary,  also  some  lemon  juice. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  PORK. 

This  should  be  from  a  young  pig.  Score  the  skin  in  lines 
across  the  leg,  as  it  is  to  be  carved,  and  put  it  into  a  pan  with  a 
little  water;  heat  slowly  at  first,  or  it  will  blister;  baste  with 
butter  till  there  is  enough  of  its  own  gravy  for  that  purpose. 
Pork  requires  to  be  thoroughly  cooked,  and  a  leg  weighing  six 
pounds  will  require  at  least  two  hours,  with  a  hot  fire.  When 
done,  take  it  up,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  add  boiling  water 
and  thicken  with  flour;  season  to  taste. 

Another  way,  is  to  remove  the  bone  with  a  sharp  l^nife,  and 
fill  the  cavity  with  a  dressing  made  of  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  to 
taste;  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  improves  it.  The  dressing  can  be 
put  in  where  the  skin  is  scored  if  the  scores  are  cut  deep.  The 
leg  must  be  tied  with  tapes  to  keep  in  shape  and  prevent  the 
escape  of  the  dressing;  make  the  gravy  as  before.  Apple  sauce 
and  pickles  are  always  an  acceptable  accompaniment  of  roast 
pork. 

4 


50  MEATS. 

ROAST  SPARE-RIB. 

Cover  with  a  greased  paper  till  it  is  half  done;  remove  the 
paper  and  dredge  with  flour;  baste  at  first  with  butter,  then  with 
its  own  gravy,  quite  often.  Just  before  taking  up,  sprinkle  bread 
crumbs  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage,  thickly  over  the 
surface;  let  it  cook  a  few  moments  and  baste  with  butter.  Make 
a  gravy  and  send  to  the  table  separately. 

PORK  STEAKS. 

Fresh  pork  steaks  should  be  in  nice  slices,  with  the  skin  taken 
off.  Season  them  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sage  if  liked;  broil  or 
fry  them  quickly,  using  no  butter.  When  fried,  and  gravy  is  de- 
sired, mix  flour  with  the  fat  and  pour  in  boiling  water,  or  milk  if 
preferred,  and  serve  separately. 

PORK  CHOPS. 

Dip  first  in  beaten  ^^^^  then  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs;  sea- 
son to  taste  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  turning  often  till  well  done. 

SOUSE. 

MRS.  E.  P.   CHASE. 

Clean  pigs'  feet  and  ears  thoroughly,  and  soak  them  a  number 
of  days  in  salt  and  water;  boil  them  very  tender  and  split  them. 
(They  are  good  fried).  To  souse  them  cold,  pour  boiling  vinegar 
over  them,  spiced  with  pepper-corns  and  a  little  salt.  They  will 
keep  good,  pickled,  for  a  month  or  two. 

PIG'S  HEAD,   (ROASTED.) 

Clean  and  split  the  head  of  a  half-grown  pig,  take  out  the 
brains  and  set  in  a  cool  place;  par-boil  the  head  in  salted  water, 
then  take  it  out  and  wipe  dry,  cover  with  beaten  ^^^^  sprinkle 
thickly  with  bread  crumbs  seasoned  to  taste,  and  roast,  basting 
with  butter  and  the  water  in  which  the  head  was  boiled,  and  in  its 
drippings.  Wash  the  brains  until  they  are  white,  beat  them  up 
with  one-fourth  part  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt,  together 
with  a  beaten  Q^^'.,  make  into  balls,  and  roll  in  flour  and   fry  in 


MEATS.  51 

hot  fat  to  a  light  brown.  Place  on  the  dish  around  the  head,  and 
pour  on  the  fat  from  the  dripping-pan;  thicken  the  remainder  with 
brown  flour  and  boil  up  once. 

PRESSED  HEAD. 

MRS.  M.   R.  KELLOGG. 

Pig's  head  is  good  baked  with  beans,  or  cured  and  smoked.  It 
is  also  good  prepared  with  spices.  Boil  the  several  parts  of  the 
entire  head,  and  the  feet,  in  the  same  way  as  for  souse.  All 
must  be  boiled  so  perfectly  tender  as  to  have  the  meat  easily 
separated  from  the  bones.  After  it  is  neatly  separated,  chop  the 
meat  while  warm  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  cloves,  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon.  Put  it  in  a  strong  bag,  and,  placing  a  weight  on 
it,  let  it  remain  until  cold;  or  put  it  in  any  convenient  dish, 
placing  a  plate  with  a  weight  on  it  to  press  the  meat.  Cut  in' 
slices  when  used. 

SCRABBLE. 

MRS.  C.  H.   SWEENEV. 

After  boiling  a  pig's  head  and  feet  for  head-cheese,  take  a 
cup  of  the  meat  and  chop  fine;  put  it  in  one  gallon  of  hot  water; 
when  it  boils  hard,  stir  in  meal  to  make  the  consistency  of  mush. 
Salt  to  taste,  pour  into  a  square  bread-pan  and,  when  cold,  cut  in 
slices  and  fry  for  breakfast. 

TO  COOK  A  HAM. 

MRS.   M.  R.  KELLOGG. 

Boil  it  three  or  four  hours,  according  to  the  size,  then  skin  it  and 
place  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour,  then  cover  with  bread  crumbs 
and  replace  in  the  oven  for  another  half  hour.  Boiled  ham  is 
alwa3-s  improved  by  heating  in  an  oven  till  much  of  the  fat  is 
cooked  out. 

TO  BOIL  HAM. 

Ham  should  be  put  into  cold  water  to  boil;  if  it  is  very  salt,  the 
water  should  be  changed  just  after  it  begins  to  boil.  A  pint  of 
good  vinegar  added  to  the  water  improves  the  ham  very  much. 
When  boiled  tender,  remove  the  skin  and,  if  desired,  cut  off  some 
of  the  fat.  It  may  be  set  in  an  oven  fdr  a  while,  or  not,  just  as 
the  taste  dictates.  If  set  on  the  table  whole,  a  few  cloves  stuck 
here  and  there,  give  it  a  pretty  appearance.  Garnish  with  celery 
tops  or  sprigs  of  parsley. 


52  MEATS. 

STEAMED  HAM. 

Lay  in  cold  water  for  twelve  hours,  scrape  and  wash  thoroughly. 
Place  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  put  in  the  ham  and 
cover  closely;  keep  the  water  boiling  all  the  time;  allow  twenty- 
five  minutes  steaming  for  each  pound  of  meat.      Skin  while  hot. 

TO  GLAZE   HAM. 

The  ham  should  be  a  cold  boiled  one,  from  which  the  skin  was 
removed  when  hot.  Cover  the  ham  all  over  with  beaten  ^-^^'t 
make  a  thick  paste  of  cream,  pounded  cracker,  salt  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  melted  butter.  Spread  this  evenly  over  the  ham 
and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BROILED  HAM. 

If  very  salt,  soak  the  slices  in  lukewarm  water  half  an  hour, 
then  take  them  out,  cut  off  the  rind  and  broil  quickly  over  hot 
coals.     If  cooked  slowly,  it  will  harden, 

FRIED  HAM. 

If  too  salt,  put  the  slices  in  cold  water  in  the  frying-pan,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  turn  it  off  and  fry  the  ham  quickly,  turning  often. 

HAM  AND  EGGS. 

Fry  the  ham  quickly; 'remove  from  the  pan  as  soon  as  done. 
Drop  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  into  the  hot  fat;  be  careful  not  to  let 
the  yolks  break  and  run,  and  keep  the  eggs  as  much  separated  as 
possible,  to  preserve  their  shape.  The  ham  should  be  cut  in 
pieces  the  right  size  to  serve  and,  when  the  eggs  are  done,  one 
should  be  laid  on  each  piece  of  ham.  If  any  eggs  remain,  they 
can  be  placed  uniformly  on  the  edge  of  the  platter. 

TO  WARM  HAM. 

MRS.   A.  L.  FEISBIE. 

Take  any  pieces  of  cold  boiled  or  fried  ham,  chop  them  with 
bread  and  put  the  mixture  into  the  stew-pan.  When  it  is  hot, 
break  into  it  one  or  two  eggs,  according  to  the  quantity;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste.  Stir  constantly  after  break- 
ing in  the  eggs,  and  serve  as  soon  as  the  eggs  are  sufficiently 
cooked. 


MEATS.  53 

HAM  TOAST. 

Chop  some  lean  boiled  ham  fine,  put  it  in  a  pan  with  a  little 
pepper  and  a  lump  of  butter;  when  quite  hot  stir  in  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  mix  quickly,  spread  on  hot  buttered  toast. 

HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  bread  in  thin  slices,  butter  them  and  lay  between  each  two 
some  nice  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham.  A  little  mustard  spread  on 
the  meat,  improves  it  for  many. 

FRIED  SALT  PORK. 

MRS.   C.    H.  RAWSON. 

Take  a  nice  piece  of  pork  with  scarcely  any  lean,  cut  in  thin 
slices;  have  the    skillet  half  full  of  either  warm  or   cold  water^ 
lay  the  pieces  in  and  let  them  remain  until  the  water  boils,  then 
take   them  out,  turn   out   the  water,  roll   the  pieces   in  flour  or 
Indian  meal  and  fry  till  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides. 

PORK  SAUSAGES. 

Take  thirty  pounds  of  pork,  mostly  lean;  chop  it  very  fine, 
season  with  eight  ounces  of  salt,  one -half  ounce  of  salt-petre,  two 
ounces  of  pepper,  and  such  sweet  herbs  as  suit  the  taste.  They 
should  be  finely  sifted;  sage,  summer  savory,  or  sweet  marjoram 
are  all  good.  To  keep  for  family  use,  the  meat  can  be  packed  in 
stone  jars  and  covered  with  a  cloth,  over  which  pour  melted  lard. 
When  used,  make  into  cakes. 

Bags  for  holding  the  meat,  may  be  made  of  old  white  muslin, 
large  enough  to  allow  a  slice  to  be  from  three  to  four  inches  in 
diameter.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

BAKED  PORK  WITH  APPLES. 

MRS.  C.  H.  SWEENEY. 

Put  the  roast  in  a  pan  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
When  about  half  done  or  more,  pour  off  the  fat,  then  surround 
your  roast  with  apples  prepared  in  the  following  way:  pare  the 
upper  part  of  the  apples  about  two  inches  wide,  and  put  a  band 
or  cap  of  dough  around  the  peeled  part;  place  in  the  pan  as 
described,  and  bake  till  done.     This  is  very  nice. 


9 


54  MEATS. 

NEW  ENGLAND  SAUSAGES. 


MRS.  A.   Y.    RAWSON. 

To  fifty  pounds  of  meat,  cut  fine,  put  seventeen  and  one-half 
ounces  of  salt,  three  and  one-half  ounces  of  pepper,  ten  ounces  of 
sage  and  savory. 

TO  PREPARE  LARD. 

MRS.   C.  D.  SPRAGUE. 

Obtain  the  "leaf"  from  a  butcher,  skin  and  scrape  till  it  is 
clean,  then  cut  it  up  in  small  pieces,  and  put  over  the  fire  in  an 
iron  kettle,  which  should  be  scrupulously  clean,  with  a  little 
water.  When  about  half  cooked,  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  dry 
soda.  As  this  makes  the  lard  foam  up,  it  is  necessary  to  have 
room  in  the  kettle,  so  it  shall  not  boil  over.  When  done,  most 
of  the  scraps  will  be  eaten  up,  and  the  lard  will  be  very  pure 
and  white.  Strain  into  a  tin  or  stone  vessel,  and  keep  in  a  cool, 
dry  place.     It  remains  hard  in  warm  weather. 

CORNED  BEEF. 

MISS    LIZZIE    SMITH,    MT.    CARROL,    ILLS. 

To  6  gallons  of  water,  add  9  lbs.  of  pure  salt,  3  lbs.  of  brown 
sugar,  1  qt.  molasses,  3  oz.  of  salt-petre,  1  oz.  pearlash.  Let 
these  ingredients  be  boiled  and  carefully  skimmed  as  long  as  im- 
purities rise  to  the  surface.  When  the  water  is  ready  to  receive 
the  rest  of  the  material,  pour  in  the  salt-petre  only,  and  when 
dissolved,  and  the  water  boiling,  dip  your  beef,  piece  by  piece, 
into  the  salt-petre  walEfer,  holding  it  in  for  a  few  seconds  only. 

When  the  beef  has  been  thus  immersed  and  become  quite  cool, 
pack  it  in  the  cask  where  it  is  to  remain;  when  the  pickle  is  per- 
fectly cold,  pour  it  on  the  meat  which '  should  be  kept  down  by 
cover  and  stone.  This  amount  of  pickle  is  intended  for  100  lbs.  of 
beef.  The  immersion  of  the  beef  in  hot  salt-petre  water  contracts 
the  surface  by  closing  the  pores  and  prevents  the  juices  of  the 
meat  from  going  out  into  the  pickle.  The  salt-petre  absorbed  by 
the  contracted  or  cooked  surfaces  will  modify  the  salt  that  passes 
through  it,  the  whole  producing  the  most  perfect  result. 


MEATS.  65 

BRINE  FOR  CURING  BEEF. 

MKS.  T.    HUNT.  ^ 

To  100  lbs.  of  beef,  take  10  lbs.  of  salt  and  2  of  salt-petre,  1 
qt.  of  molasses.     Boil  and  skim ;   when  cold,  pour  over  the  meat. 

FOR  CURING  PORK  AND  HAMS. 

MRS.    M.    R.    KELiLOGG. 

For  pork,  make  brine  enough  to  cover  the  pork  (let  it  be  as 
strong  as  possible).  For  every  layer  of  pork  put  a  layer  of  ground 
black  pepper,  say  1  lb.  to  a  barrel.  Put  in  3  or  4  oz.  of  salt-pe- 
tre; this  is  not  enough  to  make  it  taste,  yet  it  is  enough  to  keep 
the  hams  from  getting  hard.  When  used  the  second  time  do  not 
scald  the  brine.  For  hams,  to  each  100  lbs.  take  9  lbs.  of  salt, 
5  oz.  of  salt-petre,  1  qt.  of  molasses,  a  large  spoonful  of  soda  and 
4  Oz.  of  ground  black  pepper.  Let  the  hams  remain  in  brine  from  4 
to  6  da^*^  smoke  and  sack.  Care  should  be  taken  to  prevent  the 
pork  from  freezing,  or  to  be  sure  the  frost  is  all  out  vsrhen  put  in 
the  brine.     This  is  a  very  superior  receipt. 

BRINE  FOR  HAM. 

MRS.    C.    P.    HOLMES. 

12  lbs.  salt,  \  lb.  salt-petre,  3  qts.  molasses,  to  6  gals,  water. 
Boil  and  skim;  when  cool,  pour  over  the  meat.  Before  packing, 
take  salt,  salt-petre  and  molasses  and  rub  the  ends  around  the 
bone.     This  for  100  lbs. 

TO  CURE  HAMS. 

For  curing  fifty  pounds,  allow  three  quarts  of  coarse  salt,  one- 
half  pound  of  salt-petre,  and  two  quarts  good  molasses.  Add 
enough  soft  water  to  cover  the  hams.  Common  sized  hams 
should  be  kept  in  this  pickle  five  weeks,  larger  ones  six.  They 
should  all  be  taken  out  once  a  week,  and  those  which  Avere  on 
the  top  laid  in  first,  and  the  lower  ones  last.  They  should  be 
smoked  from  two  to  three  weeks  with  walnut  wood,  or  with  saw- 
dust and  corn  cobs  mixed.  Meat  smoked  with  cobs  is  very 
delicate. 

Pieces  of  beef  for  smoking  may  be  laid  in  this  pickle  after  the 
hams  are  sent  to  the  smoke-house,  but  more  salt  should  be  added. 


56  .     .  MEATS. 

HOW  TO  KEEP  HAMS  THROUGH  THE  SUMMER. 

When  removed  from  the  smoke  house,  do  not  suffer  a  fly  to 
come  near  them,  but  immediately  sew  them  in  a  coarse  cloth  or 
stiff  brown  paper  and  pack  them  in  slacked  ashes.  There  is  no 
method  so  sure  to  preserve  them  from  insects,  and  the  effect  of 
the  ashes  is  to  improve  the  meat,  but  care  should  be  taken  that 
the  hams  be  so  secured  that  the  ashes  will  not  touch  them.  The 
ashes  should  be  perfectly  cold  and  dry  and  the  barrel  be  in  a  dry, 
cool  place. 


i^aa^. 


W^  UCCESS  in  nice  cooking  greatly  depends  on  the  fresh- 
ness  of  the  eggs  used.      There  are  various  ways  of 
|t^>fi^   determining  in  regard  to  this,  but  none  appear  to  be 

infallible.       Old  stale  eggs  are  cold    all  over,  fresh  eggs 

have  a  warm  spot   on  the    big   end,   which    may  be    de. 

tected  by  applying  it  to  the  tongue.  Another  :  If  placed 
in  cold  water,  a  fresh  egg  will  go  to  the  bottom  and  lie  on  the 
side,  a  bad  egg  will  float,  a  stale  egg  may  sink  but  will  stand  on 
one  end.  When  eggs  are  plenty  it  is  a  good  plan  to  pack  them 
for  use  at  times  when  it  is  difficult  to  procure  them.  Some  of  the 
simpler  methods  of  preserving  them  are  to  pack  them  in  bran  or 
salt  with  the  small  end  down.  If  they  are  to  be  kept  some  time, 
it  is  better  to  grease  the  shells  before  packing  them.  Mix  half  a 
pint  of  unslacked  lime  with  the  same  quantity  of  salt  and  a  couple 
of  gallons  of  water.  The  water  should  be  turned  on  the  lime 
boiling  hot;  when  it  is  cold  lay  the  eggs  in  with  great  care  not  to 
crack  the  shells,  otherwise  they  will  spoil  very  soon.  The  eggs 
should  be  perfectly  fresh  when  put  in.  Do  not  make  the  lime- 
water  any  stronger,  or  the  lime  will  eat  the  shells.  They  should 
be  kept  in  a  cool  place,  but  never  allowed  to  become  chilled  or 
frozen. 

FRIED  EGGS. 

MKS.    A.  L.  FEISBIE. 

Put  a  very  little  butter  in  each  cup  of  a  gem  pan,  which  should 
be  hot  enough  to  hiss,  break  an  egg  into  each  cup  and  fry  till  the 
eggs  are  hard  as  is  desired.  This  is  a  quick  and  easy  way  of  fry- 
ing eggs;  as  they  preserve  the  shape  of  the  cup,  it  makes  a  very 
pretty  dish. 

57 


58  EGGS. 

BAKED  EGGS. 

MRS.  J.  P.  POSTER. 

Break  into  a  well  buttered,  shallow  tin  plate,  five  or  six  eggs, 
(five  is  better),  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of 
butter;  place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  till  the  whole  sets.  This 
makes  a  very  delicate  and  pretty  breakfast  dish. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Put  a  piece  of  good  butter  into  a  frying-pan  and,  when  hot, 
pour  in  the  eggs,  which  should  be  previously  broken  in  a  dish 
and  seasoned.  Stir  constantly  till  cooked  as  much  as  desired, 
and  serve  in  a  hot  dish.  Cook  them  just  as  the  meal  is  ready  to 
be  eaten,  for  they  are  not  good  if  allowed  to  stand.  Some  add  a 
little  milk  or  cream  with  the  eggs. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

Have  the  water  boiling,  and  the  toast  moistened  in  a  little  salt 
water,  and  buttered.  Break  the  eggs,  one  by  one,  carefully  into 
the  water,  let  them  boil  till  the  white  sets,  remove  with  an  eg^g 
slice,  pare  off  the  ragged  edges  and  lay  each  egg  upon  a  slice  of 
toast;  put  over  bits  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Eggs  require  to  be 
quite  fresh  to  poach  nicely. 

.BOILED  EGGS. 

The  most  delicate  way  of  preparing  eggs  is  by  pouring  over 
them  boiling  water,  and  letting  them  stand  15  minutes  closely  cov- 
ered. If  kept  hot  without  boiling,  the  white  becomes  very  ten- 
der and  delicate.  An  egg  cooked  the  day  it  is  laid  requires  a 
longer  time  to  cook  than  one  that  is  a  day  or  two  old. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Put  the  eggs  on  in  cold  water  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  or 
place  them  in  a  sauce  pan  of  boiling  water,  being  careful  not  to 
let  them  crack  or  break,  by  dropping  them  in.  Three  minutes 
will  be  enough  to  cook  them  if  desired  soft,  ten  if  hard. 

PICKLED  EGGS. 

Boil  as  many  as  you  wish  to  pickle  until  quite  hard;  when  done, 
place  in  cold  water  till  you  can  remove  the    shells,  being  careful 


EGGS.  69 

not  to  mar  the  eggs.  Lay  them  in  wide-mouthed  jars  and  pour 
over  them  scalding  vinegar  well  seasoned  with  whole  pepper, 
allspice  and  a  few  pieces  of  ginger  root,  or  such  spices  as  you  may 
prefer.  When  cold,  cover  closely  and  let  them  remain  for  a 
month,  when  they  will  be  ready  for  use.  They  make  a  nice  relish 
for  cold  meats. 

OMELET. 

MRS.    G.    M.    HIPPEE. 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  One  cup  milk, 
one  tablespoon  of  butter  melted  in  the  milk,  one  tablespoon  of 
flour;  cook  slowly  in  a  buttered  skillet,  on  top  of  the  stove, 
without  stirring. 

OMELET. 

MRS.    W.    S.    PRITCHARD. 

Eight  eggs  to  one  cup  of  cream  or  milk;  beat  them  all  together; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Pour  all  into  a  greased  pan,  and  let 
them  fry  until  they  can  be  turned  over,  but  not  till  done  too  hard. 

FRIED  OMELET. 

MRS.  C.  W.   NELSOK. 

Six  eggs;  beat  the  yolks,  and  add  one  tea  cup  of  milk;  beat 
two  tablespoons  of  flour  with  a  little  milk;  beat  the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth,  mix  all  together,  and  fry  in  a  buttered  spider. 

BAKED  OMELET. 

MRS,    F.    V.    STOWE. 

Boil  one-half  pint  of  milk;  beat  six  eggs  thoroughly,  the  yolks 
and  whites  separately;  add  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  to  the  boiling  milk;  stir  all  into  the 
beaten  eggs,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  deep  dish.  Bake  ten  min- 
utes, in  a  quick  oven,  to  a  delicate  brown. 


m\jc^^  SK®  ^si<sf)0. 


WHITE  SAUCE. 

■S:^M^|i?i  UT  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a 
..  sauce-pan,  set  over  a  good  fire,  have  a  wooden  spoon 
ready  and  move  the  butter  all  over  the  bottom  of  the 
(■jjTD  pan,  so  as  to  melt  it  as  fast  as  possible,  without  allowing  it 
Iv.  to  burn.  Then  take  the  sauce-pan  from  the  fire,  put  in  it 
about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  the  flour"  well  and 
fast,  so  as  to  mix  it  thoroughly  with  the  butter;  no  lumps  must 
be  left.  If  the  butter  cools  before  the  flour  is  mixed,  set  the  pan 
back  on  the  fire  a  inoment.  When  well  mixed,  heat  again,  stir- 
ring fast,  until  the  mixture  turns  of  a  yellowish  color,  when  the 
flour  is  cooked.  To  finish,  pour  into  the  pan  the  liquor  to  be 
used,  either  water,  milk  or  broth,  stir  and  mix  it  with  the  butter 
and  flour  over  the  fire,  then  season  and  it  is  ready. 

DRAWN  BUTTER. 

Mix  smoothly  several  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  with  cold  water,  and 
pour  into  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  briskly  un- 
til the  whole  boils  up  well;  then  remove  it  from  the  fire,  but  keep 
it  warm.  Have  ready  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  butter, 
cut  into  small  pieces,  and  stir  them  into  the  liquid.  When  the 
butter  is  melted,  the  sauce  is  ready  for  use.  It  should  be  free 
from  lumps,  but  if  not,  it  must  be  strained  through  a  small  sieve. 
If  the  butter  is  to  be  used  for  fish,  put  in  slices  of  hard  boiled 
eggs  or  capers.  It  may  be  converted  into  curry  sauce  by  sprink- 
ling in  a  little  curry  powder. 

61 


63  SAUCES  AND  SALADS. 

BURNT  BUTTER. 

Put  a  couple  of  ounces  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan.  Heat  over  a 
moderate  fire  till  of  a  dark  brown  color,  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
vinegar  and  season  to  taste.     This  is  nice  for  fish,  or  salad. 

SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  MEATS. 

MRS.  CARPENTER. 

Chop  fine  one  onion  and  a  small  quantity  of  mixed  pickles.  Put 
these  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  gill  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  all  together  five  minutes, 
then  add  one  gill  of  water  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer. 

MINT  SAUCE  FOR  LAMB. 

Wash  and  chop  fine  some  green  spearmint;  to  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  minced  leaves  put  eight  of  vinegar,  adding  a  little  brown 
sugar.     Serve  cold. 

SHIRLEY  SAUCE. 

MRS.  E.  M.  PARROTT,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Six  large,  ripe  tomatoes,  one  pepper,  one  onion,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  vinegar;  chop 
pepper  and  onion  fine;  mix  all  together  and  boil  one  hour.  Bot- 
tle while  hot.     It  is  improved  by  running  through  a  colander. 

BREAD  SAUCE. 

Slice  an  onion  and  simmer  in  a  pint  of  milk  till  tender.  Have 
a  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs  in  a  sauce-pan  and  strain  the  milk 
over  it.  Cover  and  soak  half  an  hour,  stir  till  smooth,  season  to 
taste  and  add  three  tablespoons  of  butter.  Boil  up  once  and 
serve.     Boiling  water  may  be  added  if  too  thick. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter;  mix 
together,  and  pour  over  it  boiling  water.  Boil  the  parsley  from 
three  to  five  minutes,  then  squeeze  and  chop  fine,  and  add  to  the 
butter. 


SAUCES  AND  SALADS.  63 

EGG  SAUCE. 

Boil  the  eggs  very  hard;  when  taken  up,  put  them  into  cold 
water;  shell  and  chop  the  eggs  rather  fine,  throw  them  into 
melted  or  drawn  butter,  beat  it  well  and  serve. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

MRS.  C.   E.  PARKER,  RtTSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Stew  your  berries  well,  rub  through  a  colander  or  sieve,  sweeten 
to  taste,  blanch  some  almonds  and,  when  partly  cold,  add  them 
to  the  berries  and  put  in  a  mold,  turn  out  and  serve. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Wash  and  pick  over  a  quart  of  cranberries,  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  teacup  of  water,  stew  gentl}^,  stirring  now  and  then  till 
cooked  thick.  Sweeten  to  taste  on  removing  from  the  fire. 
Mold  them,  or  put  into  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served. 
Some  persons  add  a  little  cooking  soda  to  save  sugar,  but  it 
changes  the  color,  an4  is  apt  to  affect  the  taste,  if  a  trifle  too 
much  is  used. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

MISS  WESTGATE,  JACKSONVILLE,  ILL. 

Eighteen  ripe  tomatoes,  one  onion  and  three  green  peppers 
chopped  very  fine,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  vine- 
gar, two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  allspice  (ground).  Cook  till  thick  as  catsup,  but  do 
not  strain. 

OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Separate  the  oysters  from  the  juice;  if  there  is  not  enough  of 
the  latter,  add  one-third  water,  season  it  and  set  where  it  will 
boil,  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  mixed  smoothly  with  milk.  When 
it  has  boiled  several  minutes,  add  half  a  pint  of  oysters  to  each 
pint  of  liquid;  let  them  scald  through,  and  remove  from  the  fire. 
Cut  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e^^  in  small  pieces,  and  put 
in.      Serve  immediately  with  poultry. 

Another  way  is  to  put  the  oyster  juice  in  the  gravy  of  the  fowl, 
and  thicken  with  oysters  and  a  little  flour. 


64  SAUCES  AND  SALADS. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 

Take  a  few  stalks  of  blanched  celery,  chop  them  rathev  fine 
and  add  them  to  a  white  sauce,  giving  just  one  boil  after  the 
celery  is  in. 

ESSENCE  OF  CELERY. 

Steep  an  ounce  of  celery  seed  in  half  a  pint  of  vinegar.  A 
few  drops  of  this  will  give  a  fine  flavor  to  soups,  or  sauces  for 
poultry. 

SAUCE  FOR  BROILED  FISH. 

Put  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  into  a  gill  of  cream,  keep  it  hot, 
stir  it  often,  and  when  the  fish  is  dished,  turn  the  sauce 
over  it. 

TO  MAKE  CURRY  POWDER. 

Three  ounces  each  of  coriander  seed  and  turmeric;  black  pepper, 
allspice,  mustard  and  ginger  each  one  ounce;  cardamom  seed  and 
cumin  each  one-half  ounce.  Beat  together,  sift  well,  bottle  and 
cork  tight.     To  be  used  in  seasoning  meats  and  soups. 

CURRANT  CATSUP. 

^  MISS  M.   A.  BARTHOLOMEW. 

Six  quarts  of  juice  boiled  away  half,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two 
ounces  of  cinnamon,  two  spoonfuls  pepper,  one  of  mustard  and 
cloves,  one-half  teacup  salt,  one  pint  of  vinegar.  Add  the  spices 
after  the  juice  has  boiled  away,  and  ten  minutes  before  taking  off. 

MUSTARD  SAUCE  FOR  LETTUCE  OR  CABBAGE. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  made  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-third  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  butter  the  size  of  a  black  walnut,  the  yolk  of 
one  hard-boiled  egg.  Mix  well  together,  using  as  much  vinegar 
as  is  needed  for  the  materials  used.  Put  all  together  on  the  stove 
and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  one  or  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
stirring  briskly  till  they  are  cooked.  When  ready,  pour  over  the 
cabbage  or  lettuce,  which  must  be  chopped  fine. 


SAUCES  AND  SALADS.  65 

CURRANT  SOY. 

MES.  W.  S.   PKITCHABD. 

Five  pounds  of  currant  pulp,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint 
of  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  of  black  pepper,  one-half  tablespoon 
of  cloves,  two  teaspoons  of  salt;  spice  it  more  if  you  like.  Put 
the  currants  through  a  sieve;  boil  two  hours. 

GRAPE  CATSUP. 

MRS.  C.  P.  HOLMES. 

One  quart  of  grape  juice,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  pound  of 
sugar;  spice  with  ground  cloves;  boil  until  quite  thick. 

GRAPE  CATSUP. 

MRS.  R.  T.  WELLSLAGER. 

Squeeze  the  grapes  as  for  jelly,  three-fourths  pound  of  sugar  to 
one  pint  of  juice.  Spice  to  taste  with  salt,  black  pepper,  nut- 
meg, cloves  and  cinnamon.  Boil  until  it  is  quite  thick.  To  four 
quarts,  just  before  it  is  done,  put  one  cup  of  vinegar. 

GOOSEBERRY  CATSUP. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Nine  pounds  of  gooseberries,  six  pounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce 
each  of  nutmeg,  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon  in  a  bag  together, 
one  quart  of  vinegar;  put  all  in  a  kettle  and  cook  about  three 
hours;  then  take  off  and  strain  through  a  sieve;  put  away  in  any- 
thing you  choose. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

MRS.  C.  C.  HOWELL. 

Take  one  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  pare  them  and  cook  until  soft 
enough  to  press  through  a  sieve,  thus  taking  out  seeds  and  all 
hard  parts.  Take  the  juice  and  add  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one 
pint  of  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  ground  cinnamon,  two  table- 
spoons of  allspice,  one  tablespoon  of  cloves,  one  tablespoon  of 
pepper,  and  a  little  salt.  Boil  two  hours.  When  done,  put  away 
in  bottles.     Will  keep  for  years. 

5       ' 


66  SAUCES  AND  SALADS. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

MRS.  D.  O.  FIISrCH  AND  MRS.   F.  CORNING. 

Wash  the  tomatoes,  and  slice  them;  to  every  gallon  put  four 
tablespoons  of  ground  pepper,  six  tablespoons  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoon of  allspice,  one  tablespoon  of  cloves,  eight  tablespoons  of 
mustard.  Mix  spices  well  together,  add  one  pint  of  good  vine- 
gar. Boil  slowly  four  hours  in  a  tin  vessel;  strain  through  a 
coarse  sieve.     Put  in  bottles,  cork,  and  seal. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

MRS.   J.  PARMELEE. 

Take  twelve  large  cucumbers,  grate  them  and  salt  well;  then 
grate  four  onions,  salt  also.  Let  them  stand  five  or  six  hours,  then 
strain  and  add  as  much  vinegar  to  the  mixture  as  you  obtain  of 
liquid  by  straining.     Season  with  cayenne  pepper. 

WALNUT  CATSUP. 
The  walnuts  should  be  young  and  tender  enough  to  pierce  with 
a  pin.  Prick  them  and  lay  in  an  unglazed  jar,  a  layer  of  walnuts 
and  a  light  sprinkling  of  salt,  until  all  are  used.  Pound  them 
lightly  with  a  piece  of  wood,  to  break  or  bruise  them.  Let  them 
stand  ten  days,  stirring  every  day;  then  strain  the  juice  into  a 
saucepan.  Cover  the  shells  with  boiling  vinegar  to  extract  the 
remainder  of  the  juice,  crush  to  a  pulp  and  strain  through  a  colan- 
der into  the  sauce-pan.  For  every  quart  allow  one  ounce  each 
of  black  pepper  and  ginger,  and  one-half  ounce  each  of  cloves 
and  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  thimbleful  of  celery  seed  tied 
in  a  bag,  and  an  onion  minced  fine  for  every  two  quarts.  Boil 
all  together,  an  hour  for  each  gallon.  Bottle  when  cold,  dividing 
the  spice  equally  in  the  bottles.     Cork  and  seal. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

MRS.  T.   W.  CARPENTER. 

Two  good  sized  fowls,  one  tea-cup  of  olive  oil,  one-half  jar  of 
French  mustard,  the  yolks  of  ten  hard  boiled  eggs,  one-half  pint  of 
vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  eight  heads  of  celery, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  or  more  if  required.  Boil  the  fowls  and  put 
in  salt  enough  to  make  palatable.     When  cold,  cut  the  meat  from 


SAUCES  AND  SALADS.  67 

the  bones  in  pieces  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  size.  Cut  the 
white  part  of  the  celery  in  the  same  way.  Mix  the  chicken  and 
celery  and  set  them  away.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  paste  with  oil, 
then  add  vinegar,  mustard,  pepper  and  salt,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Do  not  pour  the  dressing  over  the  salad  till  half  an  hour  before  it 
is  served,  or  it  will  wilt. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

MRS.   M.  J.  WELLSLAGER, 

Boil  three  chickens  till  tender.  Pick  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
and  chop  fine.  Use  celery  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  celery 
to  two-thirds  chicken.  Chop  it  separately,  and  not  quite  as  fine 
as  the  chicken.  For  a  dressing,  take  one  tumbler  and  a  half  of 
vinegar,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard,  half  a  cup  of  melted  but- 
ter or  oil,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  After 
beating,  heat  this  dressing  over  a  slow  fire;  then  stir  till  nearly 
cold;  then  mix  together,  adding  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped. 
This  dressing  is  also  very  nice  for  chopped  cabbage. 

DRESSING  FOR  CHICKEN  SALAD,  WITHOUT  CELERY. 

MRS.  WM.  H.  MEKRITT. 

For  one  chicken,  take  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  pepper  and 
salt,  one  tea-cup  of  rich  sour  cream,  one  tea-cup  of  vinegar,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed.  Mix  well  together,  place  on  the 
stove,  stirring  all  the  time;  when  as  thick  as  custard,  take  off  and 
set  away  till  just  before  using;  then  mix  with  chicken  and  cab- 
bage. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Take  one  can  lobster;  pick  out  the  soft  parts  and  mash  them;  chop 
the  rest  of  the  lobster  and  the  cabbage  fine,  having  a  little  more 
than  one-third  cabbage;  four  hard  boiled  eggs;  mash  yolks  and 
chop  whites.     Add  mustard  and  vinegar  to  taste. 

ASPARAGUS   SALAD. 

MRS.    DR.    HOFFMAN,    BEARDSTOWN,    ILL. 

After  having  scraped  and  washed  (not  cut)  the  asparagus,  boil 
it  soft  in  salt  and  water,  taking  care  that  the  heads  are  not  injur- 
ed; drain  off  the  water,  add  some  pepper,  salt  and  strong  vinegar 


68  SAUCES  AND  SALADS. 

and  let  it  cool.  Before  serving,  arrange  the  asparagus  so  that  the 
heads  will  all  lie  in  the  centre  of  the  dish;  mix  the  vinegar  in 
which  it  was  put  with  good  olive  oil,  and  pour  on  the  asparagus. 

BEAN  SALAD. 

MRS.  DE.  HOFFMAN,   BEAEDSTOWN,  ILL. 

String  young  beans,  cut  into  inch  pieces,  wash  and  cook  soft  in 
salt  water.  Drain  them  well,  add  five  cut  or  chopped  onions, 
pepper,  salt  and  vinegar;  let  them  cool,  and  then  add  olive  oil. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

MES.  HARRY  GLIDDEN,  IfEW  YORK. 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  enough  raw  onion  to  season 
nicely,  mince  fine,  make  a  dressing  as  for  lettuce  salad,  and  pour 
over  it.  If  preferred,  melted  butter  may  be  used  in  place  of 
the  oil. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

MES.   J.    K . 

Mix  the  yolk  of  one  fresh  q^v  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  olive 
oil  very  slowly,  a'dd  1^  spoonfuls  of  mustard,  .3  of  salt,  a  little 
pepper,  and  last  of  all,  2  spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Beat  the  white 
of  the  ^^^  to  a  stiff  froth  and  lightly  stir  in.  This  is  also  excel- 
lent over  sliced  tomatoes. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. 

MES.  E,  T.  WELLSLAGER. 

One  tumbler  and  a  half  of  vinegar,  yolks  of  five  or  six  eggs, 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  mustard;  mix  all  thoroughly  through  the  cabbage. 


V5^G(S{¥Si3l<i^0. 


FIRST  thought  may  be,  "Very  little  need  be  said  on 
that  subject;  anybody  can  cook  vegetables!"  I  beg 
leave  to  differ;  many  think  it  such  a  simple  thing  to  do, 
that  they  fail  to  give  enough  care  and  thought  to  their  pre- 
paration to  make  them  sufficiently  attractive  and  palatable. 
In  France  no  family,  in  the  middle  station  of  life,  ever  dines 
without  a  dish  of  dressed  vegetables,  upon  which  as  much  care 
has  been  bestowed  in  cooking  as  upon  the  principal  dish  of  the 
dinner,  and  which  is  often  eaten  alone. 

RULES  APPLICABLE  TO  THE  COOKING  OF  ALL  VEG- 
ETABLES. 

First.  Have  them  as  fresh  as  possible;  summer  vegetables 
should  be  cooked  on  the  same  day  they  are  gathered,  if  possible. 
Second.  Lay  them,  when  peeled,  in  cold  water  for  some  time 
before  cooking.  Third.  If  to  be  boiled,  put  a  little  salt  in  ths 
water.  Fourth.  Cook  them  steadily  after  you  put  them  on. 
Fifth.  Be  sure  they  are  thoroughly  done — rare  vegetables  are 
neither  palatable  nor  healthy.  Sixth.  Drain  well.  Seventh.  Serve 
hot. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Boil  till  tender,  drain  well,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  melt- 
ed butter.     Some  prefer  them  pickled  raw,  either  whole  or  sliced. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES. 

These  may  be  sliced  and  boiled  like  turnips,  or  cooked  in  any 
way  in  which  Irish  potatoes  are  cooked.  They  require  longer 
boiling  than  potatoes.  Boiled  and  dressed  as  a  salad,  they  are 
considered  particularly  good. 

69 


70  VEGETABLES. 


ASPARAGUS. 


If  brought  from  market,  keep  it  co6l  and  moist,  till  wanted. 
This  may  be  done  by  putting  it  in  the  cellar  with  the  cut  ends  in 
a  dish  of  water.  Let  it  lie  in  cold  water  a.  few  minutes  before 
cooking.  Cut  off  all  that  is  tough  and  tie  in  small  bundles. 
Have  the  water  boiling  hot,  and  use  just  enough  to  cover  the  as- 
paragus. Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Have  some  bread 
toasted,  dip  it  in  the  liquor,  lay  in  the  dish,  butter  it,  skim  out 
the  asparagus  and  lay  on  the  toast,  butter  and  pepper  it,  thicken 
the  liquor  a  little  and  pour  over  the  whole. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  COOK  ASPARAGUS. 

MISS  AGNES  NEWTON. 

Cook  very  much  as  you  do  green  peas.  Cat  the  asparagus  into 
small  pieces,  and  put  into  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt.  Boil 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  add  butter  and  pepper  and 
thicken  a  little  with  flour  stirred  in  milk. 

BEETS. 
Beets  must  not  be  cut  before  boiling,  as  this  causes  them  to 
lose  their  sweetness.  Salt  the  water  and,  when  done,  take  them 
out  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and  rub  the  skins  off  quickly;  slice 
them,  and  dress  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  or  vinegar  if  desired. 
Old  beets  lose  their  sweetness,  and  are  best,  served  with  hot 
spiced  vinegar,  into  which  has  been  stirred  a  little  sugar. 

BEET  GREENS. 
Take  young  beets,  boil  tops  and  bottoms  in  salt  water,  drain 
well  in  a  colander,  butter  and  eat  with  vinegar;  an  excellent  dish 
in  summer. 

STRING  BEANS. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Break  off  both  ends  and  "string"  carefully,  then  break  into  inch 
pieces.  Put  them  in  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them,  taking 
care  that  they  do  not  boil  dry;  throw  in  salt  enough  to  season 
them,  and  cook  from  two  to  three  hours.  When  done,  drain 
nearly  all  the  water  off;  add  milk,  butter  and  pepper.  Thicken  a 
little  if  desired. 


VEGETABLES.  '  71 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

String  and  boil  whole  with  a  small  piece  of  corned  beef  or 
pickled  pork,  enough  to  season  them.  Stew  nearly  dry  and 
serve  hot. 

TO  DRY  LIMA  BEANS. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Gather  the  beans  when  in  a  right  state  to  cook.  String  the 
pods  with  a  darning-needle  threaded  with  twine.  Hang  the  strings 
in  a  shady,  airy  place  till  the  pods  are  thoroughly  dried,  then 
shell  and  hang  up  the  beans  in  a  paper  bag  till  needed  for  use. 
They  require  to  be  soaked  over  night,  then  cooked  as  when 
green.     They  make  nice  winter  succotash  with  dried  sweet-corn. 

LIMA  AND  BUTTER  BEANS. 

Shell  into  cold  water,  and  let  them  lie  awhile;  boil  an  hour, 
with  a  little  salt  in  the  water;  drain  and  butter  well,  peppering 
to  taste. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Prepare  and  cook  as  above,  and  pour  a  teacup  of  sweet  cream 
over  the  beans,  and  let  it  boil  up;  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the 
taste. 

SUCCOTASH. 

MRS.  M.  N.  MILES. 

This  is  usually  made  of  green  corn  and  Lima  beans,  though  for 
the  latter,  string  or  butter  beans  may  be  substituted.  Boil  the 
beans  nearly  an  hour;  while  they  are  boiling,  prepare  the  corn, 
thus:  clean  thoroughly  from  husk  and  silk,  cut  off  the  corn  care- 
fully from  the  cob  and  with  the  back  of  the  knife  scrape  the  cob 
gently.  Add  the  corn  to  the  beans  ten  minutes  before  taking  up. 
While  boiling,  season  to  the  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Do  not  have  too  much  water  in  the  beans,  and  do  not  let  them  boil 
dry.     A  little  cream  added,  improves  it, 

BEAN  PODS  FOR  PICKLING. 

String  and  boil  till  tender,  in  salt  water;  drain  off  the  water 
and  pour  over  them  hot  spiced  vinegar.  They  are  good  for  use 
in  a  day  or  two,  and  make  a  nice  relish  with  meats. 


72  '  VEGETABLES. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

MRS.  J.  M.  LAIED. 

Take  one  quart  of  dry  beans,  parboil  them  till  they  begin  to 
burst  open,  then  drain  them  out  into  a  deep  dish  and  put  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  molasses.  Put  a  piece  of  salt  pork  the  size  of  a 
coffee-cup  into  the  centre  of  the  dish  and  cover  it  with  the  beans; 
add  salt  if  your  pork  is  fresh;  till  your  dish  with  the- water  from 
the  beans  and  keep  it  filled  until  almost  done,  then  bake  until 
dry.     They  should  bake  five  or  six  hours. 

BAKED  BEANS  WITHOUT  PORK. 

MKS.  LEWIS,  CHICAGO. 

One  quart  of  beans  soaked  over  night  and  parboiled  in  the 
morning,  changing  the  water  several  times.  Put  into  an  earthen 
crock,  with  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  water  to 
cover,  and  bake  all  day. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

The  "Household"  says:  "Many  people  do  not  understand  how 
to  have  nice  baked  beans.  Bake  the  beans  all  day,  and  if  con- 
venient, let  theln  stay  in  over  night,  baking  full  twenty-four 
hours,  and  our  word  for  it,  they  will  come  out  in  the  morning 
with  a  flavor  that  will  make  your  mouth  water  to  taste  them.  We 
sometimes  see  persons  who  only  have  a  moderate  liking  for  baked 
beans,  who  invariably  bake  them  three  or  four  hours,  and  that  is 
why  they  do  not  like  them  any  better.  A  day  and  a  night  is  none 
too  much  time  to  bake  them,  having  parboiled  them  only  until 
the  skins  will  crack,  when  the  air  comes  to  them." 

CABBAGE. 

In  preparing  the  various  dishes  from  this  excellent  vegetable, 
care  should  be  taken  in  the  choice  of  the  heads.  For  boiling  or 
for  hot  slaws,  loose  heads  may  be  used,  but  for  slicing  and  eating 
raw  with  the  different  kinds  of  dressing,  a  white^  firm  head  should 
be  selected.  Many  who  like  cabbage,  will  not  cook  it  on  account 
of  the  odor  which  it  exhales.  Harper's  Bazar  says  this  is  easily 
prevented  by  putting  in  the  pot  with  the  cabbage,  a  piece  of 
charcoal  tied  in  a  cloth,  and  simmering  instead  of  boiling. 


VEGETABLES.  73 

BOILED   CABBAGE. 

After  removing  all  the  loose,  outside  leaves,  cut  the  cabbage 
in  halves,  lay  in  a  pan  with  the  cut  sides  up  and  cover  with  salt 
water.  Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  and  turn  out  quickly.  (This 
is  done  to  remove  any  insects  that  may  be  hidden  in  the  cabbage.) 
Put  in  the  kettle  with  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it,  adding 
sufficient  salt.  When  tender,  take  up  in  a  colander  to  drain, 
then  put  in  a  hot  dish  and  cover  with  slices  of  butter.  Some  like 
cabbage  boiled  in  the  liquor  in  which  corned  beef  or  ham  has 
been  boiled.  When  coOked  in  this  way  the  meat  is  first  taken 
out,  as  the  flavor  of  the  cabbage  would  injure  it.  Skim  off  the 
grease  before  putting  the  cabbage  in;  boil  briskly;  when  done,  it 
will  sink  to  the  bottom;  drain  well. 

CABBAGE  COOKED  IN  MILK. 

MRS.   n.  C.  HARRIS. 

Chop  the  cabbage  fine,  put  in  a  stew-pan  and  cover  with  sweet 
milk;  let  it  cook  slowly,  as  the  milk  will  burn  easily,  until  ten- 
der; season  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter. 

COLD  SLAW. 

MRS.  J.  P.   POSTER. 

Slice  or  chop  the  cabbage  fine.  It  is  better  to  be  sliced.  Put 
it  in  a  vegetable  dish  in  layers,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  on 
each  layer.  Take  one  cup  of  thick  cream,  either  sweet  or  sour, 
make  quite  sweet  with  sugar  and  stir  in  briskly  half  a  cup  of 
vinegar.     Pour  the  dressing  on  just  as  you  sit  down  to  eat. 

CABBAGE  DRESSING. 

MRS.  G.   R.  OSGOOD. 

To  four  well-beaten  eggs  stir  in,  over  a  slow  fire,  one  pint  of 
vinegar  until  quite  thick  and  hot  (not  boiling),  then  mix  in  two 
teaspoonfuls  each  of  mustard,  black  pepper  and  salt,  one-half  cup 
of  oil  or  melted  butter.  Do  not  turn  it  over  the  cabbage,  or  cauli- 
flower until  quite  cold.  It  can  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  for  a 
month. 


74  VEGETABLES. 

CABBAGE  DRESSING. 

MRS.  H.  C.  HARRIS. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  salt,  a  small  lump  of  butter  rubbed 
in  flour.     Heat,  and  pour  hot  over  chopped  cabbage. 

FRIED  CABBAGE. 

.    E.  A.  C. 

The  cabbage  should  be  sliced  as  for  slaw,  only  much  coarser; 
put  it  in  a  skillet  with  water  sufficient  to  cover.  Boil  twenty 
minutes,  having  it  closely  covered,  then  pour  off  most  of  the 
water;  add  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  half  a  teacup  of  vinegar,  and 
let  it  cook  about  ten  minutes  longer. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

MRS.  E.  A.  C. 

After  taking  off  the  leaves,  boil  about  half  an  hour  in  salted 
water,  drain,  and  just  before  sending  to  the  table,  pour  on  a  little 
drawn  butter  made  with  milk. 

CREAM  CABBAGE. 

MRS.  C.  D.  SPRAGUE. 

Slice  cabbage  as  for  cold  slaw,  and  salt  it.  Pour  over  while 
hot  the  following:  one  small  cup  of  vinegar,  one  well-beaten  egg, 
and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Let  the  cabbage  stand  till  cold,  and 
pour  over  it  one-half  cup  of  sweet  cream. 

HOT  SLAW. 

MRS.  y^.  H.  SIBLEY. 

Mince  or  slice  the  cabbage,  the  finer  the  better.  Put  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  half  an  egg  into  the  spider;  when  melted, 
put  in  the  cabbage,  and  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  close,  and  cook  till  tender  and  dry.  Have  ready  an  q^^^ 
well  beaten,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  (more 
if  you  wish,)  thoroughly  mixed,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage  the 
last  thing  before  taking  up.     Stir  for  a  moment  and  serve  hot. 


VEGETABLES.  75 

TO  COOK  CAULIFLOWER. 

•  » 

Pick  off  all  the  green  leaves  and  soak  the  head  in  salt  water 
two  or  three  hours,  then  boil  20  or  30  minutes  in  milk  and  water 
(using  half  as  much  milk  as  water)  with  a  little  salt.  When  taken 
up  put  on  a  little  butter  and  eat  with  vinegar  and  pepper.  Some 
prefer  drawn  butter  poured  over  it  before  sending  to  the  table. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

MKS.  DR.  HOFFMAN,  BEARDSTOWK,  ILL. 

After  preparing  the  cauliflower,  put  it  into  equal  parts  of  boil- 
ing water  and  milk,  (the  latter  improves  the  appearance  and 
taste),  a  little  salt  and  a  piece  of  fresh  butter.  Cook  it,  but  not 
too  soft;  it  should  retain  its  form.  Stir  the  yolks  of  two  or  three 
eggs  and  a  little  flour  into  some  cold  meat  soup,  add  a  little  of 
the  water  in  which  the  cauliflower  has  been  boiled  and,  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice;  set  the  whole  into  a  pot  containing  boiling 
water  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  and  pour  it  over  the  cauliflower, 
which  has  been  previously  arranged  in  a  dish.  If  desired,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg  may  be  added. 

STEWED  CARROTS. 
Half  boil  the  carrots;  then  scrape  them  nicely,  and  cut  them 
into  thick  slices.  Put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  as  much  milk  as 
will  bajely  cover  them,  a  very  little  salt  and  pepper  and  a  sprig 
'or  two  of  chopped  parsley.  Simmer  them  till  they  are  perfectly 
tender  but  not  broken.  When  nearly  done,  add  a  piece  of  fresh 
butter  rolled  in  flour.  Send  them  to  the  table  hot.  Carrots 
require  long  cooking. 

TO  PRESERVE  CORN. 

MRS.  WYLIE  BURTON. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  and  put  down  in  an  earthen  jar,  with 
every  sixth  measure,  salt;  measure  with  a  pint  cup.  When  the  jar  is 
full,  let  the  first  covering  be  of  the  inside  leaves  of  the  husk  put 
down  on  the  corn.  For  cooking,  have  a  large  kettle  full  of  boil- 
ing water;  squeeze  the  brine  from  the  corn,  and  put  it  in  the  boil- 
ing water  without  washing;  let  it  boil  until  the  water  is*quite  salt; 
have  a  tea-kettle  of  boiling  water  ready  to  put  on  the  corn  as  soon 
as  the  salt  water  is  poured  off;  change  the  water  until  the  corn  is 
sufficiently  freshened.  Season  with  butter,  cream  and  a  little  su- 
gar and  pepper. 


76  VEGETABLES. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Boil  and  grate  six  ears  of  corn.  Add  three  eggs,  beaten,  half 
a  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  pepper,  butter  the  size  of 
a  hickory-nut,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter.  Have  a  little 
lard  or  butter  hot  in  a  spider,  drop  in  the  batter  and  turn  as  you 
do  batter  cakes.  A  nice  dish  for  breakfast,  made  from  corn 
boiled  for  dinner  the  day  before. 

CORN  PUDDING  FOR  MEATS. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Take  six  large  ears  of  corn,  boil  ten  minutes,  cut  the  corn  fine 
and  mix  with  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  pint  sweet 
milk,  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Bake  from  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.     Serve  hot. 

HULLED  CORN. 

MRS.  H.  C.   HARRIS. 

Take  two  quarts  of  dry,  rijDe  corn;  put  two  and  one-half  tea-cups 
of  hard  wood  ashes  in  a  bag  and  place  (with  the  corn)  in  warm  water 
in  a  kettle,  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  corn;  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  and  in  the  morning  (the  corn  is  to  be  fixed  at  night),  if  the 
hulls  do  not  come  ofi",  boil  again.  As  soon  as  they  will  come  ofi", 
wash  in  several  waters  with  the  hands,  and  put  into  cold  or  milk 
warm  water,  and  boil  until  tender;  be  sure  to  have  a  good  deal  of 
water,  or  the  corn  will  burn. 

GREEN  CORN  FOR  WINTER  USE. 
Parboil  it,  cut  it  from  the  cobs,  dry  in  the  sun,  put  in  a  bag 
and  hang  in  a  dry  place.     When  wanted  for  the  table,  soak  sev- 
eral hours,  and  cook  slowly  half  an  hour,  without  boiling. 

■GREEN  CORN  CAKES. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Mix  a  pint  of  grated  sweet  corn  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  a  teacup  of  flour,  a  large  spoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper 
and  one  ^g'g.  Drop  this  mixture  by  the  large  spoonful  into  a 
frying-pan,  and  fry  till  brown;  use  butter  for  frying.  These  are 
nice  served  with  meat  for  dinner. 


VEGETABLES.  77 

TO  BOIL  GREEN  CORN. 

MES.  M.  N.  MILES. 

Green  corn  should  be  boiled  only  ten  minutes,  either  on  the  cob 
or  cut  off,  to  suit  the  taste. 

CUCUMBERS. 

The  chief  desideratum  in  preparing  cucumbers  for  the  table,  is 
to  make  them  cool  and  crisp.  Many  consider  them  very  un- 
wholesome, but  if  they  are  pared  and  sliced  into  a  dish  of  cold 
salt  water,  an  hour  before  needed,  they  will  certainly  be  less  so. 
If  you  have  ice,  lay  a  piece  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  brought 
to  the  table.     Eat  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar. 

CUCUMBER  RELISH. 

MRS.  WYLIE  BURTON. 

Take  the  largest  cucumbers  that  are  not  yellow,  slice  them  a 
little  thicker  and  salt  a  little  more  than  for  the  table.  Slice  at 
night,  and  in  the  morning  squeeze  every  particle  of  fluid  from 
them.  Put  them  into  a  jar,  with  white  mustard  seed,  a  little 
mace  and  sliced  horse-radish  to  taste.  Cover  them  with  white 
wine  vinegar.  They  will  keep  good  the  year  round  if  prepared 
in  this  way. 

EGG  PLANT. 

MRS,  W.  H.  SIBLEY. 

Peel  the  ^^s,  plant,  cut  in  rather  thin  slices,  strew  salt  between 
them;  let  them  stand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  drain  the  juice  from 
them,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  them  stand  a  half  hour  long- 
er; drain  them  as  dry  as  possible,  roll  each  slice  in  flour;  have 
ready  a  hot  frying-pan  or  spider,  the  bottom  covered  with  butter; 
lay  in  the  slices,  pepper  them,  and  fry  a  rich  brown.  The  sooner 
eaten  after  cooking,  the  better. 

EGG  PLANT. 

F . 

The  purple  variety  is  best.  Peel  and  parboil;  mash  fine  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  to  taste.  Put  this  mixture  in 
a  deep  earthen  dish,  lay  over  it  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  but- 
ter, and  bake  a  light  brown  color. 


78  VEGETABLES. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 


After  peeling  the  egg  plant,  parboil  it  five  or  six  minutes,  then 
cut  the  slices  crosswise,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  dip  them 
in  beaten  ^^^  and  then  in  fine  cracker  crumbs;  fry  a  light  brown 
in  hot  lard.  Serve  with  a  folded  napkin  upon  the  bottom  of  the 
dish;  send  to  the  table  as  fast  as  cooked.  They  must  be  thor- 
oughly cooked. 

GREENS. 

The  leaves  of  white  mustard,  spinach,  water  cresses,  cowslips, 
dandelions,  and  the  roots  and  tops  of  small  beets  are  good  for 
greens.  If  not  fresh  and  plump,  soak  in  salt  water  for  half  an 
hour  previous  to  cooking.  Boil  them  with  a  little  salt  in  the  wa- 
ter, until  they  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  Drain  very  dry  in  a 
colander;  butter  and  serve. 

ONIONS. 

The  onion  is  one  of  the  most  healthful  of  all  the  vegetables, 
and  is  especially  beneficial  to  those  whose  labor  taxes  the  brain 
or  those  who  are  afflicted  with  nervous  diseases;  but  owing  to  its 
unpleasant  effects  upon  the  breath  many  persons  eschew  it  alto- 
gether. It  is  said  that  chewing  and  swallowing  a  few  grains  of 
roasted  coffee  will  remove  this  difficulty,  and  any  utensil  in  which 
onions  have  been  cooked  may  be  freed  from  their  odor  by  turning 
it  bottom  upwards,  over  a  hot  stove  after  it  has  been  washed. 

For  seasoning,  the  red  oqion  will  answer,  but  for  boiling,  stew- 
ing, etc.,  the  white  silver-skinned  and  sweet  onion  are  greatly 
preferable. 

BAKED  ONIONS. 

For  baking,  large  onions  only  should  be  used.  Wash  them 
and  boil  an  hour  with  the  skins  on,  in  slightly  salt  water;  let  the 
water  be  boiling  when  they  are  put  in;  change  the  water  once  or 
twice  during  the  hour.  Take  out  the  onions,  lay  them  on  a  cloth 
that  the  moisture  may  pass  off;  roll  each  one  in  a  round  piece  of 
buttered  tissue  paper,  twisted  at  the  top  to  keep  it  close,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  nearly  an  hour.  When  cooked  tender,  remove 
the  skin,  and  brown,  basting  with  butter;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  pour  over  the  melted  butter. 


VEGETABLES.  79 

•  ONIONS  BOILED. 

Cut  a  slice  from  both  ends,  and  skin  them.  They  are  improved 
by  laying  them  in  cold  water,  after  peeling,  for  a  half  hour  or 
more.  Cover  them  with  boiling  w^ater  and  milk;  cook  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  Change  the  water,  have  a  tea-kettle  of  boiling 
water  ready,  add  a  little  milk,  and  boil  till  tender.  Drain,  and 
season  with  rich  milk  or  cream,  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  let 
the  whole  simmer  on  the  back  of  the  stove  before  serving.  Never 
cook  in  an  iron  pot. 

YOUNG  ONIONS  STEWED. 


After  skinning,  lay  them  in  cold  water  half  an  hour  or  more. 
Put  into  a  sauce-pan  with  hot  water  enough  to  cover  them.  When 
about  half  cooked,  throw  off  nearly  all  the  water,  add  some  milk, 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  seasoning  to  taste;  stew  gently 
till  tender,  dish  up  and  serve. 

ONIONS  FRIED. 

Prepare  as  for  boiling,  slice  and  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  lit- 
tle boiling  w^ater;  cover  closely,  and  let  them  steam  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes;  remove  the  cover  that  the  water  may  all  evapo- 
rate, and,  at  the  same  time  add  a  good  sized  piece  of  butter,  salt 
and  pepper,  and  let  them  fry  brown,  stirring  often  to  prevent  their 
burning.     Serve  hot. 

PARSNIPS. 

MRS.  A.  Y.  EAWSON. 

Scrape  the  parsnips  clean  and  boil  until  tender;  if  not  very 
large  an  hour  will  be  long  enough  to  cook  them;  then  cut  in  slices 
lengthw'ise,  and  have  ready  a  hot  frying-pan  well  buttered,  and 
fry  a  light  brown.  Spread  a  little  butter  on  each  slice  after  it  is 
done,  if  desired. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

MRS.   W.  H.  SIBLEY. 

Prepare  as  above,  mash  well,  season  with  a  little  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Make  into  balls  or  cakes,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  as 
you  would  slices. 


80  VEGETABLES. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

Boil  tender,  mash  smooth  and  fine,  picking  oni  all  the  hard 
parts.  For  two  large  parsnips,  allow  one  egg,  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  rich  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  salt  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Beat  the  eggs  light,  stir  in  the  mashed 
parsnips,  beating  hard,  then  the  butter  and  salt,  lastly  the  milk. 
Fry  as  fritters,  or  as  griddle  cakes. 

MASHED  PARSNIPS. 

Boil  and  scrape  them,  mash  smooth,  picking  out  the  fibres; 
mix  in  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  large  spoonful  of  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling  in  a  sauce-pan  and 
serve,  heaping  in  a  mound  as  you  would  potatoes  cooked  in  the 
same  way. 

POTATOES. 

This  root  still  bears  its  original  American  name,  signifying 
"Earth  apple,"  and  is  divided  into  many  varieties,  the  most 
common  of  which  are  Early  and  Late  Rose,  White  Neshannock, 
Peach-Blows,  Mercer,  Peerless,  Irish  Grays  or  Jersey  Blues,  Prince 
Albert,  etc.  Next  to  bread,  there  is  no  vegetable  article,  the  prepa- 
ration of  which,  as  food,  "deserves  to  be  more  attended  to  than, 
the  potato."  "The  great  art  of  cooking  potatoes  is,  to  take  them 
up  as  soon  as  done.  When  boiled,  baked,  fried  or  steamed,  they 
are  rendered  watery  by  continuing  to  cook  after  they  reach  the 
proper  point.  For  this  reason  potatoes  to  bake  or  boil,  should  be 
of  nearly  the  same  size." 

SARATOGAS— FRIED  POTATOES. 

MES.   MARY  MYERS. 

Wash,  pare  and  slice  some  raw  potatoes;  cut  each  slice  an  inch 
and  a  half  long,  half  an  inch  wide  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 
Let  them  lie  in  cold  water  until  the  other  preparations  for  break- 
fast are  made.  Have  ready  in  a  frying-pan  some  hot  lard  or  nice 
drippings.  Take  the  potatoes  out  of  the  water  into  a  cloth,  wipe 
dry,  fry  quickly  a  light  brown.  Remove  from  the  lard  with  a 
perforated  skimmer,  into  a  deep  dish  in  which  a  napkin  has  been 
laid.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  eat  while  hot,  if  you  want  them 
crisp  and  nice.      Some  slice  them  very  thin. 


VEGETABLES.  81 

YOUNG  POTATOES. 

MRS.    HILL. 

To  cook  them  when  very  young,  wash  them,  scrape  off  the 
skin,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  cover  with  hot  water,  boil  gently 
until  tender  and  pour  off  the  water.  Add  to  a  quart  of  potatoes 
a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
rubbed  into  it,  pour  in  a  tumblerful  of  sweet  cream  or  milk,  stew, 
uncovered,  five  minutes;  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

BOILED  POTATOES. 

There  is  a  conflict  of  authorities  as  to  whether  cold,  or  boiling 
water  should  be  used  when  putting  the  potatoes  to  cook.  The 
result  of  our  experiments  stands  somewhat  thus:  Garnet,  White 
Fountain  and  Early  Rose  are  apt  to  dissolve  in  cold  water,  giving 
off  their  starch  too  readily,  perhaps;  we  boil  them  in  hot  water. 
Peach-Blows,  Prince  Alberts,  and  other  late  varieties,  are  best 
put  in  cold  water,  ahrays  pouring  off  the  water  the  instant  they 
are  done,  and  letting  the  potatoes  dry  a  few  minutes. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 
Select  medium  sized,  smooth  potatoes;  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
from    half    to  three-quarters  of   an    hour,    according   to    size  of 
potato  and  amount  of  heat.     If  eaten  as  soon  as  done,  they  are 
warranted  to  be  good. 

STEWED  POTATOES  FOR  BREAKFAST. 
Pare  and  slice  into  cold  water  enough  potatoes  for  the  family 
meal;  stew  in  enough  salted  water  to  cover  them;  watch  and 
stir  them  from  the  bottom  occasionally,  that  they  may  not  burn. 
When  tender,  add  a  cup  of  milk;  let  it  boil  up;  put  in  a  lump  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  enough  to  season  properly.  Thicken 
slightly  with  flc)ur.     Turn  into  a  covered  dish. 

POTATO  CAKES. 

MRS.  J.  P.   FOSTER. 

Take  enough  good  sized  potatoes  for  a  meal,  peel  and  grate  on 
a  coarse  grater  and   stir  in  from  three  to  five   eggs,  then   add  a 
little  flour  and  season  to  taste.     Beat  well  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
One  good  sized  spoonful  makes  a  cake. 
6 


83  VEGETABLES. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

<  L.  V.  S, 

Pare  and  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  from  five  to  fifty  minutes,  ac- 
cording to  convenience,  unless  they  are  old  potatoes,  when  they 
are  improved  by  being  longer  in  water.  "Boil  in  hot  or  cold 
water,  according  to  the  toughness  of  texture.  A  coarse,  waxy 
potato,  is  best  cooked  in  cold  water."  Throw  in  a  little  salt; 
drain  thoroughly;  when  done,  put  in  another  pinch  of  salt,  and 
mash  in  the  pot  with  a  potato  beetle  till  all  the  lumps  disappear. 
Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  milk  or  cream  to  moisten  suffi- 
ciently, and  beat  the  whole  with  a  large  spoon  till  it  is  foamy. 
Some  then  form  the  whole  into  a  mound  on  a  plate,  butter  the 
surface  and  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 

POTATO  BALLS— A  BREAKFAST  DISH. 

MRS.  "W.  H.   SIBLEY. 

Mashed  potatoes  left  from  dinner,  make  a  nice  dish  for  break- 
fast if  prepared  thus:  put  them  into  a  deep  dish,  pour  in  a  little 
rich  milk  or  cream;  beat  the  white  of  an  ^g%^  and  work  the  whole 
together  until  well  mixed.  Make  into  balls  or  cakes  three-fourths 
of  an  inch  thick,  and  roll  in  flour.  Have  ready  in  a  frying-pan  a 
little  melted  butter,  just  enough  to  keep  them  from  adhering. 
Brown  nicely  on  both  sides.     Serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

SWEET  POTATOES. 

The  best  way  to  cook  sweet  potatoes,  is  to  bake  them  with  their 
skins  on.  Some  boil  them  till  nearly  done,  then  put  in  the  oven 
and  finish.  Others  boil  them  till  done  and  serve  hot.  When 
boiled,  if  any  are  left  over,  they  are  excellent  sliced  and  fried  for 
breakfast  the  next  day.  Another  way  is  to  pare,  and  place  in  the 
dripper  in  which  you  are  roasting  beef,  basting  occasionally  till 
done.  They  are  delicious  cooked  in  this  way,  as  also  are  Irish 
potatoes. 

SUMMER  SQUASH. 

A  few  general  rules  are  applicable  for  the  cooking  of  the  differ- 
ent kinds  of  this  vegetable.  Unless  they  are  very  young  and 
tender,  pare  them,  being  careful   to  cut  away  all  the  rind;  then 


VEGETABLES.  83 

quarter  and  remove  the  seeds;  let  the  pieces  lie  in  cold  water  till 
you  are  ready  to  cook  them.  When  boiled,  drain  well,  roash  till 
smooth;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  keep  hot  till 
served.  It  improves  them  to  put  a  little  salt  in  the  water  in 
which  they  are  boiled. 

WINTER  SQUASH. 

Wash,  cut  into  medium  sized  pieces,  pare  and  remove  seeds. 
Boil  till  tender.  Drain  as  dry  as  possible,  and  before  mashing,  let 
it  stand  a  few  minutes  on  the  top  of  the  stove  that  all  the  water 
may  evaporate.  Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  It  requires 
more  time  for  cookincr  than  summer  squashes. 

BAKED  WINTER  SQUASH. 

Wash  but  do  not  pare.  Cut  into  squares,  remove  seeds  and 
bake  the  same  length  of  time  as  potatoes.  Some  consider  squash 
cooked  in  this  way  a  good  substitute  for  sweet  potatoes. 

RAW  TOMATOES. 

When  tomatoes  are  to  be.  eaten  raw,  do  not  scald  them — they 
are  better  to  have  the  ekins  removed  with  a  sharp  knife.  Slice 
them  and  lay  in  a  dish;  they  are  very  much  improved  by  standing 
on  ice  for  an  hour  or  two  before  being  eaten.  Do  not  season  be- 
fore placing  on  the  table,  as  some  prefer  salt,  while  others  like 
sugar  best. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Select  ripe  tomatoes,  pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let  them 
stand  a  few  moments;  then  remove  to  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and 
slip  off  the  skins;  cut  out  the  core  and  hard  part,  slice,  and  put 
to  cook  in  a  sauce-pan;  stir  them  occasionally;  cook  half  an  hour; 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar,  if  liked,  and  add  a  small  piece 
of  butter;  stir  ten  minutes  longer.  If  desired,  the  tomatoes  may 
be  thickened  before  being  served,  by  adding  bread  crumbs,  or,  if 
preferred,  toast  some  pieces  of  bread  and  lay  in  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served.  Some  think  a  small  onion, 
minced,  improves  the  flavor;  others  add  a  quarter  as  much  green 
corn  as  tomatoes,  and  stew  gently. 


84  VEGETABLES. 

TOMATO  FRITTERS. 

MRS.  T.  W.   CARPENTER. 

Take  one  quart  of  stewed  tomatoes,  stir  in  one  ^s^^.,  one  small 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiif  as  pancakes. 
Fry  by  dropping  in  hot  lard. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

MRS.   C.  E.  PARKER,  ILL. 

Choose  large  and  smooth  tomatoes,  cut  out  a  lid,  scoop  out  the 
seeds,  and  cook  them  with  the  juice  twenty  minutes;  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  or  partly  cooked  rice,  and  one  finely 
chopped  onion  to  a  dozen  tomatoes;  stew  ten  minutes  longer; 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  a  little  sugar,  if  you  like. 
Stuff  the  tomatoes  with  this,  replace  the  lid,  dust  with  bread 
crumbs,  season  as  for  inside  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

MRS.  MARY  ANDREWS. 

Pour  boiling  hot  water  over  the  tomatoes  and  then  peel  and 
slice  them.  Butter  a  deep  dish  and  put  a  layer  of  tomatoes  upon 
the  bottom;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  another  of  tomatoes,  seasoning  as  before,  then  another  of 
bread  crumbs,  and  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  full,  end- 
ing with  bread  crumbs,  over  which  lay  many  little  bits  of  butter; 
bake  an  hour.     Add  sugar  to  pepper  and  salt,  if  preferred. 

SALSIFY,  OR  VEGETABLE  OYSTER,  STEWED. 

Scrape  the  roots  and  drop  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  cleaned, 
as  exposure  to  the  air  causes  them  to  turn  dark.  Cut  into  inch 
pieces;  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover 
them  and  cook  until  tender.  Drain  off  nearly  all  the  water  and 
add  a  cup  of  rich  milk  or  cream.  Stew  a  few  minutes,  rub  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  in  a  lump  of  butter,  stir  it  in  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  It  will  be  found  to  have  a  good  deal  of  the 
oyster  taste. 


VEGETABLES.  85 

SALSIFY  FRIED. 

Scrape  the  roots  and  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes; 
boil  in  salt  water  till  tender;  mash  thoroughly,  picking  out  all  the 
fibres;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  an  egg  and  stir 
in,  and  if  not  moist  enough  to  work  out  into  cakes,  add  a  little 
milk.  Make  into  cakes  an  inch  thick,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  a  light 
brown. 

SALSIFY  ON  TOAST. 

Prepare  as  for  stewing.  Boil,  and  instead  of  draining  off  the 
water,  add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  flour.  Toast  some 
slices  of  bread;  lay  a  slice  of  toast  and  pover  with  salsify,  then 
another  slice  and  more  of  the  salsify  until  all  is  used.  A  covered 
dish  is  preferable. 

SPINACH. 

MRS.    DR.  HOFFMAN,  BEAKDSTOWN,  ILL. 

Wash  well;  boil  a  few  minutes  in  plenty  of  water;  then  dip 
into  cold  water,  press  well  to  free  from  water  and  chop  fine. 
Stew  it  with  plenty  of  butter  for  fifteen  minutes;  sprinkle  with 
flour  and  cook  a  few  minutes  more.  Then  add  some  strong  meat 
gravy  in  which  may  be  the  gravy  of  a  roast.  After  this,  it  must 
not  boil  any  more,  and  must  be  served  as  soon  as  possible.  The 
dish  may  be  ornamented  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

YOUNG  TURNIPS— BOILED  WHOLE. 

Pare  smoothly,  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Put  them 
in  boiling  water,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, and  stew  until  ten- 
der; drain  dry  without  breaking,  place  in  a  deep  dish  and  cover 
with  butter  drawn  in  milk.     Care  should  be  taken  to  serve  hot. 

MASHED  TURNIPS. 

c . 

Peel,  cut  in  half  inch  slices  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour; 
put  to  cook  in  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt — cook  till  tender;  if 
young,  it  will  require  thirty  minutes  to  boil  them,  and  a  longer 
time  for  older  ones.  Drain  well,  let  them  stand  over  the  fire 
a  few  moments  for  the  moisture  to  escape  and  then  mash;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  cream. 


86  VEGETABLES. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Pare  and  quarter  the  turnips;  then  dip  into  a  sauce  pan,  some  of 
the  liquor  in  which  you  are  boiling  corned  beef  or  pork;  skim  off 
the  grease  and  boil  till  tender.  Serve  hot,  with  the  rest  of  your 
boiled  dinner.  They  are  apt  to  give  the  meat  an  unpleasant  fla- 
vor if  boiled  in  the  same  vessel  with  it. 


^^%m  SK®  Ys^sg¥. 


-s^l  OOD  P^LOUR  has  a  yellowish  tinge,  and  when  pressed 
^^[i'=r  by  the  hand,  retains  the  creases.  Poor  flour  is  not  so 
r^<Sa.  adhering,  has  a  dingy  look   and   can   be   blown   about. 


Flour  made  from  sprouted  wheat  makes  a  soft,  running 
dough  which  cannot  be  easily  moulded;  it  is  an  impossibil- 
ity to  make  good  bread  from  such  flour.  The  sifting  of 
flour  before  using  makes  it  lighter. 
Good  yeast  is  as  indispensable  to  good  bread  as  is  good  flour. 
The  recipes  for  yeast  in  this  book  will  be  found  excellent  if  good 
flour  is  used.  Yeast  should  be  kept  in  a  stone  jug,  well  corked, 
or  in  a  self-sealing  glass  jar;  these  should  be  scalded  every  time 
fresh  yeast  is  made,  sweetened  with  soda  water,  and  rinsed  with 
cold  water. 

A  little  molasses  always  improves  bread  or  cakes  made  from 
unbolted  or  rye  flour.  A  little  butter  or  lard  improves  cakes  made 
of  Indian  meal,  as  it  makes  them  more  tender.  A  tablespoon 
of  lard,  and  the  same  quantity  of  white  sugar,  added  to  the  sponge 
at  night,  will  make  the  bread  more  tender  and  palatable. 

Bread  will  keep  better  in  a  covered  tin  box  than  in  anything 
else. 

CARRIE'S  JUG  YEAST. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Peel  twelve  potatoes  and  boil  in  one  gallon  of  water,  with  three 
large  handfuls  of  hops  thrown  in  loose.  When  done,  mash  pota- 
toes through  a  colander;  then  lay  a  towel  in  the  colander,  and  strain 
the  hops;  add  one-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, one-half  cup  of  salt.  When  cool  enough,  put  in  one  pint 
of  yeast,  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours  before  using;  then 
pour  into  a  jug,  cork  tight,  keep  in  a  cool  place,  and  always  shake 
well  before  using. 

87 


88  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

JUG  YEAST 

MRS.   WM.  n.  RAY,  RUSHYILLE,  ILL. 

Four  large  potatoes,  one  large  handful  of  hops,  in  a  bag,  one 
large  spoon  of  sugar,  one  large  spoon  of  flour,  one  quart  of  water. 
Boil  hops  and  potatoes  till  potatoes  are  done;  then  squeeze 
out  hop-bag,  mash  potatoes,  and  add  sugar  and  flour.  When  cool 
enough,  put  in  a  cup  of  good  yeast.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

DRY  YEAST. 

MRS.  LUCINDA  AVRIGHT,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Twelve  good  sized  potatoes,  one  pint  of  hops,  one  gallon  of 
water,  one  tea-cup  of  dry  yeast,  soaked;  stir  in  a  little  flour  and 
let  rise.  Wash  the  potatoes  clean,  and  boil  without  peeling;  boil 
the  hops  with  the  potatoes,  loose.  When  the  potatoes  are  done, 
peel  and  mash;  mix  with  a  pint  of  flour;  strain  the  water  from 
the  hops  into  it;  when  cool,  stir  in  the  yeast  and  let  rise  twenty- 
four  hours;  then  mix  with  Indian  meal,  roll  out,  and  cut  it  into 
cakes  to  dry. 

AN  UNFAILING  YEAST. 

MRS.  C.  H.  ATKINS.  • 

Put  a  handful  of  hops  into  a  bag  and  drop  it  into  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water;  while  steeping,  wash,  peel  and  grate  six  medium 
sized  potatoes;  take  out  the  hops,  put  in  the  potatoes  and  boil  a 
few  ininutes,  stirring  continually;  add  a  half  tea-cup  of  white  or 
light  brown  sugar,  the  same  of  salt.  When  cool,  stir  in  a  tea-cup 
of  yeast;  let  it  rise  till  it  becomes  a  mass  of  foam,  then  stir  down 
and  jug  it  tight. 

YEAST. 

MRS.  J,  M.  OTIS. 

One  large  handful  of  hops,  one  dozen  potatoes,  one  cup  of  su- 
gar, one-half  cup  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger.  Mash  the 
potatoes  in  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled,  and  pour  into  a 
jar;  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  ginger;  steep  the  hops  till  the  strength 
is  gone,  and  add  the  water  to  this  mixture  till  you  have  one  gal- 
lon. When  cooled  to  blood  heat,  add  one  cup  of  the  same  yeast. 
Keep  warm  from  six  to  eight  hours.  When  light,  bottle  and  set 
in  the  cellar. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  89 

YEAST. 

MRS.   W.   S.  PRITCHAKD. 

A  double  handful  of  hops  (in  a  thin  bag),  one  quart  of  boiling 
water,  one  quart  of  potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces.  Boil  the  potatoes 
with  the  hops  until  thoroughly  done,  keeping  them  covered  tight  all 
the  time.  Take  the  potatoes  out  and  mash  well,  then  pour  the 
boiling  hop  water  over  them;  add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two 
of  ginger,  one  of  salt;  let  it  stand  until  just  warm,  and  add  one  tea- 
cup of  yeast,  or  more.  It  will  keep  two  weeks  in  summer  and  two 
months  in  winter. 

BREAD. 

MRS.  W,  S.  PRITC^ARD. 

Take  one  pint  of  peeled  potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces;  boil 
them  in  one  and  one-half  pints  of  water,  skim  out,  and  mash  fine. 
Add  four  tablespoons  of  fine  flour  to  the  potatoes,  pour  over 
the  potato-water  and  stir  till  smooth.  When  cool,  add  four 
tablespoons  of  my  (Mrs.  Pritchard's)  yeast  and  a  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning,  take  the  bread- 
bowl,  filled  with  flour,  pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  in  the  cen- 
ter, and  mix;  add  enough  cold  water  to  make  lukewarm;  then 
pour  in  the  sponge  made  the  night  before,  mix  the  dough  soft  and 
knead  one-half  hour.  Put  back  in  the  bread-bowl  and  set  to  rise; 
when  light,  knead  down  and  set  to  rise  again;  then  knead  into 
loaves  and  when  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  quantity 
will  make  four  loaves. 

BREAD. 

4  MRS.  J.  M.  OTIS. 

Mix  a  batter  with  warm  water  and  a  little  salt;  to  each  quart  of 
water  use  one  teacup  of  yeast.  (If  the  weather  is  not  very  warm,  do 
this  at  night;  but  if  quite  warm,  the  bread  is  not  so  sweet  as  if 
mixed  in  the  morning.)  When  light,  add  flour  till  the  dough  is  stiff 
— knead  thoroughly,  cover  and  let  rise  again.  When  it  is  again 
light,  knead,  and  again  let  it  stand.  If  this  is  done  several  times 
the  bread  will  be  of  a  finer  texture  than  if  put  into  the  pans  with- 
out kneading.  After  the  dough  has  risen  sufficiently  knead  into 
loaves  and  let  rise  until  light,  then  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


90  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

BREAD. 

MRS.  MILES. 

In  all  cases,  have  good,  sweet  yeast.  You  will  never  fail  in 
bread-making  by  following  a  few  general  rules.  On  the  evening 
of  the  day  before  bread  is  wanted,  take  one  quart  of  water  (warm 
or  not,  according  to  the  weather),  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  yeast; 
stir  in  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter;  let  rise,  knead  it  well  at  night 
and  cover  close.  In  the  morning,  it  will  be  light;  knead  lightly, 
put  into  pans  and  bake  when  sufficiently  risen. 

SALT-RISING  BREAD. 

MRS.  W.  C.  BURTON. 

In  the  evening,  fill  a  pint  cup  half  full  of  new  milk  and  let  it 
come  almost  to  boiling  heat;  thicken  with  corn  meal  to  the  con- 
sistency of  mush,  put  a  sauce-plate  over  the  cup,  wrap  it  in  flan- 
nel and  put  it  where  it  will  keep  warm.  In  the  morning,  set  the 
salt-rising  in  the  usual  way;  then  add  the  corn  meal  preparation, 
make  rather  stiff  with  flour  and,  if  done  right,  it  will  rise  in  fifteen 
minutes.  Mix  the  bread  with  sweet  milk,  warm  and  knead  until 
it  looks  smooth.  (The  longer  it  is  kneaded  the  whiter  the  bread.) 
Add  one  spoonful  of  sugar  to  the  loaf ;  mashed  potatoes  as 
used  in  the  hop  yeast,  improve  it.  Graham  bread  can  be  made 
the  same  way  by  omitting  the  yeast. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  teacup  of  butter,  one  teacup  of  sugar, 
three  eggs,  one  teacup  of  yeast,  flour  enough  to  knead.  Set  the 
sponge  with  milk  and  yeast  and  a  little  flour.  When  light,  beat 
the  eggs,  butter  and  sugar  together  and  mix  with  the  sponge  and 

let  rise  again. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Rub  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  pound  of  flour,  adding  the 
■whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  tablespoon  of  strong 
yeast,  a  little  salt  and  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Set 
it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  It  should  be  light  in  an  hour.  When 
risen,  divide  into  rolls  and  bake  about  ten  minutes. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  91 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

MRS.   J.  P.  FOSTER. 

One  quart  of  lukewarm  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  large 
teacup  of  home-brewed  or  one-half  cup  of  baker's  yeast,  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  When  light,  add  one  %^^  and  two  table- 
spoons of  butter.  Knead  in  flour  enough  to  roll,  and  when 
light  again,  make  into  rolls.  Let  them  rise  thirty  minutes.  To 
enrich,  add  another  o.^'g  and  more  butter. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

MRS.  R.  A.   BUNKER,  SPRI:N^GFIELD,  ILL. 

At  night,  take  two  quarts  of  flour,  rub  in  two  tablespoons  of 
lard,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  put  in  one  pint  of  cold,  boiled 
milk,  one-half  cup  of  yeast,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a 
little  salt.  Let  this  stand  till  morning  without  mixing,  then  beat 
it  well,  and  let  it  stand  till  noon;  roll  out  and  cut  round.  Spread 
on  a  little  piece  of  butter,  fold  over,  put  into  a  pan  and  let  stand 
until  ready  to  bake. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

ALICE  HART  ROSCOE,  MISSOURI. 

Make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  one  quart  of  flour,  and  put  in  a 
piece  of  butter  (melted)  the  size  of  an  o.^'g.,  a  little  salt  and  a 
tablespoon  of  sugar;  pour  over  this  one  pint  of  cold,  boiled 
milk  and  one-half  teacup  of  yeast.  When  the  sponge  is  light, 
work  fifteen  minutes;  let  it  rise  again  and  cut  in  round  cakes. 
When  light,  flatten  each  cake  with  the  rolling-pin,  put  a  small 
piece  of  butter  on  the  top,  and  fold  over.  Put  in  pans,  and  when 
light,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

RUSKS. 

MRS.  J,  PARMELEE. 

Make  a  sponge  of  flour  and  three  large  tablespoons  of  yeast, 
at  noon;  the  same  evening,  take  one  quart  of  new  milk  and  warm 
sufiiciently  to  melt  one  half  cup  of  butter  with  two  cups  of  sugar; 
■when  cool,  add  two  eggs  well  beaten;  then  take  what  you  judge 
to  be  a  right  quantity  of  flour  and  pour  the  milk,  etc.,  with  the 
sponge  into  the  middle  of  it,  stir  into  a  light  dough  and  let  it  rise 
all  night;  in  the  morning,  make  up. 


9a  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

SWEET  RUSKS. 

MRS.  FENTON  SANDERS,  BEARDSTOWN,  ILL. 

Three  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  butter, 
one  pint  of  warm  sweet  milk,  one-half  pint  of  fresh  yeast,  and 
flour  sufficient  to  make  a  soft  dough.     Let  it  rise  well. 

DES  MOINES  RUSK. 

r 

MRS.  W.   A.   COLTON. 

One  quart  of  milk  thickened  with  flour  as  for  sponge,  one  cup 
of  yeast;  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  add  two 
cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  shortening  and  five  eggs  well  beaten; 
make  this  as  stiff  as  you  can  possibly  stir  it;  let  it  stand  until 
very  light,  roll  out  in  cakes,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible.  Let 
them  stand  until  very  light  again;  when  baked,  rub  a  little  sugar 
and  water  over  them. 

RUSK. 

MRS.   P.  H.  CARPENTER. 

One  pint -of  bread  dough,  one  tumbler  of  warm  milk,  butter 
the  size  of  an  Q^'g^  one  small  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
soda.  Set  to  rise;  when  light,  roll  out,  make  into  rolls,  and  let 
rise  again  until  very  light,  before  putting  in  the  oven. 

EGG  ROLL. 

MRS.  G.  COOPER. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  yeast,  one  cup  of  lard 
or  butter,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Make  sponge  at  night,  mix  in 
the  morning,  and  add  a  little  soda.  Roll  thin  as  pie  crust,  spread 
on  lard  and  roll  up. 

SWEET  BREAD. 

MRS.  E.  S.  SPEED,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

,One  tea-cup  of  yeast,  one  tea-cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  coffee 
cup  of  sugar,  one  tea-cup  of  currants  or  chopped  raisins,  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  ^^^.,  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon.  Stir  in 
flour  and  let  rise;  when  light,  work  into  a  loaf  and  put  in  a 
pan.  Spread  with  butter,  sprinkle  thickly  with  white  sugar,  and 
bake. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  93 

IMPERIAL  BISCUIT. 

MRS.  E.   P,  CHASE. 

Beat  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  to 
a  cream.  Take  light  bread  dough,  roll  thin,  and  spread  with  'the 
butter  and  sugar;  roll  a  second  layer  and  spread  like  the  first,  lay 
one  on  the  other;  then  roll  a  third  piece,  and  lay  on  top  (do 
not  spread  the  upper  layer).  Cut  in  biscuit,  and  let  stand  till  very 
light.     Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

MILK  BISCUIT. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Two  and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  one-half  pound  of  butter, 
two  gills  of  yeast  and  a  little  salt.  Rub  flour,  butter  and  salt  to- 
gether; add  the  yeast  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Knead  well  and  put  in  a  pan  to  rise;  this  must  be  done  at  night; 
the  next  morning,  knead  lightly,  make  into  small  biscuit,  place  in 
tins,  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and  as  soon  as  light,  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

FRENCH  BISCUIT. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Three  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of 
salts  of  hartshorn  sifted  through  the  flour,  ten  eggs,  ten  ounces  of 
butter,  lemon  to  taste.     Roll  thin,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

MRS.  FANNIE  OLMSTED,  LE  ROY,  N.  T. 

One  quart  of  warm  water;  make  middling  thick  batter  with 
Graham  flour;  add  one-half  cup  of  yeast.  Stir  thoroughly,  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  put  in  one-half  cup  of 
sugar.  Stir  in  as  much  flour  as  will  be  absorbed  by  the  moisture, 
but  do  not  make  too  thick.     When  risen,  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

MRS.  R.  T.  WEI.LSLAGER. 

Mix  well  together,  one  cup  warm  water,  two  tablespoons  of 
syrup,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda;  to  this  add  one  cup  of  white 
flour;  add  Graham  flour  (stirring  with  a  spoon),  till  stiff".  Let  rise 
one-half  hour  in  a  warm  place.     Bake  one  and  one-fourth  hours. 


94  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

GRAHAM  YEAST  BREAD. 

MRS.  J.  M.  OTIS. 

Prepare  a  batter  as  for  fine  flour  bread  (see  Mrs.  Otis'  rule  for 
making  bread),  using  the  same  proportion  of  yeast  to  the  water. 
When  light,  add  one  spoon  of  sugar  for  each  quart  of  water, 
and  mix  sufficiently  stiff  to  knead,  but  not  so  stiff  as  for  fine  flour 
bread;  let  it  stand  to  rise.  When  light,  knead  and  let  rise  again. 
When  again  light,  knead,  divide  and  put  into  pans  for  baking. 
Let  it  rise  again  in  the  pans.  Graham  bread  requires  to  be  baked 
a  little  longer  and  more  slowly  than  fine  flour  bread. 

INDIAN  BROWN  BREAD. 

MRS.  M.  A.  TURNER. 

One  quart  of  boiling  water,  salt  and  thicken  as  for  mush,  very 
stiff.  Cook  well;  as  soon  as  done,  add  one  pint  of  molasses;  stir 
until  cool;  then  add  one  coffee  cup  of  yeast;  mold  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise — put  it  into  a  pan  that  can  be  placed  in  a 
steamer.  Let  it  rise,  and  steam  two  hours,  and  set  in  the  oven  to 
dry.  It  may  be  baked  in  bread  pans  if  the  outside  is  greased  to 
prevent  the  crust  from  being  too  hard. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Three  cups  of  yellow  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  of  black  molasses, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  soda;  steam  five  hours. 
(Improved  by  putting  in  oven  five  or  ten  minutes.)  Mix  the  salt 
with  the  meal  and  flour,  then  add  molasses,  sweet  and  sour  milk, 
and  in  the  last  cup  of  sour  milk  put  the  soda.  A  great  deal  depends 
on  the  mixing;  the  water  must  be  boiling  before  the  mixture  (in 
the  crock)  is  put  into  the  steamer.     It  must  not  stop  boiling, 

•    BROWN  BREAD. 

MRS.   WM.   H.   RAY,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Three  cups  of  brown  flour;  mix  in  tlie  flour  two  teaspoons  of 
soda,  even  teaspoon  of  salt,  two-thirds  cup  of  molasses,  enough  but- 
termilk or  sour  milk  stirred  in  to  make  batter  like  pound  cake,  or 
to  drop  from  a  spoon  pretty  thin.  Steam  three  hours;  bake  fif- 
teen minutes.     Very  nice. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  95 

BROWN  BREAD. 

MES.  C.  B.  SMITH. 

Two  tea-cups  of  buttermilk,  two  tea-cups  of  sweet  milk,  two- 
thirds  cup  of  molasses,  one  tablespoon  of  so(Ja;  salt  and  thicken 
with  one-third  corn  meal  and  two-thirds  Graham  flour,  sufficiently 
to  drop  from  the  spoon.      Steam  three  hours.      Very  nice. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

MRS.  M.  J.  AVELLSLAdER. 

Three  cups  corn  meal,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  Graham  flour,  one 
cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  the  molasses,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder  in  the  flour,  three  cups  sweet  milk.  Steam  three 
or  four  hours. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

MRS.  J.  LAIRD. 

One  and  one-half  coffee-cups  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  corn  meal, 
one-half  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  molasses,  two  eggs,  piece  of  lard 
the  size  of  an  ^^■g.,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk. 
Pour  into  a  tin  pail  and  cover.  Place  it  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
and  cook  three  hours.     This  is  very  nice  without  eggs. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

MRS.  ROUNDS. 

Three  cups  of  rye,  three  or  four  cups  corn  meal,  two  cups  of 
Graham  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  molasses,  salt,  and  stir  quite 
thin  with  sour  milk,  and  soda  to  sweeten.  Steam  two  and  one-half 
hours,  and  bake  one  half  hour. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

MRS.   J.  B.  STEWART. 

Three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  corn  meal,  two  cups  of 
Graham  flour  or  one  cup  of  wheat  flour  and  one  cup  of  Graham, 
one  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Boil  five  hours. 

STEAMED  CORN  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  three  cups  of 
corn  meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  molasses,  large  teaspoon 
of  soda.     Steam  four  hours. 


96  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

BOILED  CORN  BREAD. 

MRS.  CURTIS  BATES. 

Three  cups  of  corn  meal  one  and  a  half  cups  of  shorts,  one-half 
cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  molasses,  three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Boil  in  a  covered  gallon 
tin  pail  four  hours;  put  it  in  the  water  when  cold  and  do  not  let 
it  stop  boiling. 

BOILED  CORN  BREAD. 

GRANDMA  FARNHAM. 

Four  cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  four  cups  of 
corn  meal,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  molasses,  ome  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one  teaspoon  of  soda.     Boil  three  hours. 

CORN  BREAD. 

MRS.  F.  M.  MILLS. 

Stir  one  pint  of  corn  meal  into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk;  beat 
three  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately,  then  put  together  and 
beat  again;  use  salt  and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Bake  one  and 
one-half  hours. 

CORN  BREAD. 

JENNIE  M.  CHASE. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspoon 
of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  melted  lard,  meal  enough  to  make  a 
batter  (not  stiif).  Add  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  the  last  thing. 
Bake  in  shallow  pans. 

CORN  BREAD. 

MRS.  CLEGHORN. 

Four  cups  of  corn  meal,  two  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of 
molasses,  one  teaspoon  of  soda.  Add  sufficient  water  or  milk  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.      Steam  three  hours.     Brown  in  the  oven. 

CORN  BREAD. 

MRS.  T.  E.    BROWN. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  pint  of  corn  meal,  two  eggs  beaten 
very  light,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  &^^.,  a  little  salt;  three 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  in  one  pint  of  flour.  Mix  well  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  97 

CORN  BREAD. 

MRS.   A.  L.  PRISBIE. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  one 
^^'^t  one  teacup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  soda,  corn  meal  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter. 
Bake  in  a  steady  oven  from  one-half  hour  to  an  hour,  according 
to  the  thickness  of  the  loaf ;  this  may  vary  from  one-half  inch  to 
two  inches. 

NICE  JOHNNY-CAKE. 

MRS.  A.  Y.  RAWSON". 

Three  teacups  corn  meal,  one  teacup  of  flour,  two  teacups 
sweet  milk,  one  teacup  sour  cream,  one  Q^^.,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
one  teaspoon  salt..  \ 

SALLY  LUNN. 

MRS.  C.  H.   SWEENEY. 

Two  well  beaten  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup 
of  melted  butter,  one-half  cup  of  yeast,  two  tablespoons  of  white 
sugar,  one  pint  of  flour,  saltspoon  of  salt.  Mix  at  night;  pour 
into  baking-pans  and  let  rise.     Bake  in  quick  oven  for  breakfast. 

SALLY  LUNN  WITHOUT  YEAST. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  new  milk,  large  spoon 
of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  three  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  Mix  baking  powder  well  with  flour;  warm  but- 
ter and  milk  together,  stir  in  flour  and  eggs,  beat  well  and  bake 
half  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

MUSH. 

E.   A.   C . 


Mix  corn  meal  with  cold  water  and  stir  into  a  pot  of  boiling 
water  till  stiff  enough  to  let  the  paddle  or  spoon  stand  in  it.  Salt 
to  your  taste,  and  boil  one  or  two  hours,  being  careful  not  to  let 
it  burn.  Pour  it  into  a  dripping-pan,  and  when  cold,  slice  thin 
and  fry  brown  on  griddles  with  a  little  lard. 

7 


98  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

FRIED  MUSH. 

MES.    BALDWIN,   STEWART,  IOWA. 

Cut  mush  into  pieces  one  inch  thick  and  three  inches  long; 
dip  in  well  beaten  egg-,  roll  in  pounded  cracker  and  fry  as 
doughnuts. 

CORN  MUFFINS. 

MRS.   GEO.  H.  LEWIS. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal  scalded  with  three  pints  of  boiling  water 
(if  possible  scald  night  before);  when  cold,  add  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  melted  butter  and  six  eggs.     Bake  in  rings. 

CORN  MUFFINS. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART, 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  one  small  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  small 
teaspoon  of  salt,  four  tablespoons  of  lard,  six  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately;  corn  meal  to  make  just  thick  enough 
to  run.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

MUFFINS. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  one  dessert  spoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda,  three  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  or  lard,  five  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  Make  a  thin  batter  and  put 
the  whites  in  last.  Butter  the  rings  or  pans  and  have  hot  before 
putting  into  the  oven. 

CAROLINA  MUFFINS. 

MRS.  J.   P.  POSTER. 

Melt  in  a  quart  of  milk  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  stir 
in  one  quart  of  meal,  one-half  gill  of  yeast,  one  tablespoon  of 
molasses.     Let  them  rise  five  hours  and  bake  in  muffin  rings. 

MUFFINS. 

MRS,  CLEGHORN. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  butter, 
one  teacup  of  yeast,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  a  little  salt. 
When  light  bake  quickly. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  99 

MUFFINS. 

MRS.  T.  E.  BROWN. 

Rub  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  two  quarts  of  flour, 
add  three  ^^^'^  well  beaten,  a  little  salt,  one  teacup  of  yeast,  one 
pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  water.  Beat  the  eggs  and  milk  together, 
then  add  the  water,  stir  in  the  flour  and  butter,  add  the  yeast 
and  let  it  stand  until  morning.  Place  rings  in  dripping-pan,  fill 
and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

*  MUFFINS. 

MRS.  BELLOWS,  PEPPERELL,  MASS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  warm  milk,  one- 
half  tea-cup  of  yeast,  .two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  saleratus.  Set  the  batter  in  a  warm  place; 
when  light,  bake  in  rings. 

MUFFINS. 

MRS.  M.  J.  WELLSLAGER. 

One  ^^^.,  well  beaten,  one  large  spoon  of  sugar,  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  melted  butter, 
a  little  salt.  Put  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  into  the  flour. 
Bake  in  rings. 

MUFFINS. 

MRS.  C.  B.  WILLIS. 

Melt  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  milk;  add  a  little  yeast 
and  two  eggs,  well  beaten;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Set  it  to  rise  and,  when  quite  light,  add  a  little  salt.  Bake 
in  rings  on  a  hot  griddle,  filling  the  rings  half  full  of  the   batter. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

MRS.  G.  M.  HIPPEE. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  warm,  one-half  tea-cup  of  yeast  and  a 
little  salt;  stir  in  flour  and  let  rise;  when  light,  add  four  well 
beaten  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  or  lard, 
let  rise  again,  and  then  bake  in  muffin  rings. 


100  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

GRAHAM.  MUFFINS. 

MES.  F.  M.  MILLS. 

Two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  tablespoon  of  molasses  or 
sugar,  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  or  one-half  pint  of  milk  and  one-half 
pint  of  cream.  ^ 

GRAHAM  CAKES. 

MRS.   G.    H.   LEWIS. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  with  a  large  spoon  of  sour  milk,  small 
lump  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  fourth  spoon  of  soda,  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter. 

RICE  TEA  CAKE. 

MRS.    C,  W.  NELSON. 

Two  cups  of  rice  flour,  two  heaping  cups  of  wheat  flour,  four 
teaspoons  of  cream  tartar,  two  teaspoons  of  soda,  two  tablespoons 
of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  milk.     Bake  thin  and  eat  while  hot. 

ECONOMY  CAKES. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER.    ' 

Bread  that  is  sour  can  be  made  into  good  breakfast  cakes.  Cut 
it  in  small  pieces,  and,  if  not  wanted  for  immediate  use,  it  can  be 
kept  a  number  of  weeks  by  drying  the  pieces  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven;  care  must  be  taken  that  it  does  not  burn.  When  you  wish 
to  make  cakes  for  breakfast,  soak  the  bread  over  night  in  cold  wa- 
ter; in  the  morning,  drain  off  all  the  water,  mash  the  bread  fine, 
and  to  every  three  pints  put  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  three  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  one  pint  of  wheat  or  rye  flour; 
add  sufficient  milk  to  enable  you  to  fry  them  as  you  would  buck- 
wheat cakes.  If  the  flour  which  is  used  is  mixed  over  night  with 
a  large  spoon  of  yeast,  the  eggs  may  be  omitted. 

SWISS  BUNNS. 

MRS.  W.   S.  PRITCHARD. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  ^^^i  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  of  butter,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  added  last.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  101 

BUNNS. 

MES.  C.  W.  NELSON. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
yeast.  Stir  these  together  in  the  evening  and  let  the  mixture 
stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  small  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  let  it  rise  again.  Mold 
and  put  into  pans,  and  let  it  rise  a  third  time. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

MRS.  C.  H.  SWEENEY. 

One  cup  of  rice  boiled  tender  in  one  quart  of  ne-w  milk,  piece 
of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt.  Make  into  a  roll 
and,  when  perfectly  cold,  cut  in  slices,  dip  in  egg^  then  in  crack- 
ers rolled  fine,  and  fry  brown  in  butter  and  lard,  mixed. 

POP-OVERS. 

MRS.  W . 

Four  eggs,  four  cups  of  flour,  four  cups  of  milk,  piece  of  butter 
size  of  a  walnut  (melted),  pinch  of  salt. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

"grandma,  smith,"    MT.  CARROLL,  ILL. 

Four  small  tea-cups  of  sour  milk,  three  tablespoons  of  shorten- 
ing, three  tablespoons  of  molasses,  salt,  two  teaspoons  of  soda, 
Graham  flour  to  make  it  just  thick  enough  to  drop  from  a  spoon. 
This  will  fill  two  sets  of  gem  pans. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

MRS.  T.  E.  BROWN. 

One  tea-cup  of  milk,  one  even  cup  of  Graham  flour,  a  little  salt, 
one  egg.     Bake  in  gem  pans. 

OAT  MEAL  GEMS. 

MRS.  F.  L.  C. 

Two  cups  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk;  stir  in  three  cups  of  oat 
meal;  then  add  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  cold  water.  Bake  in  gem  pans  or  in  a  sheet. 
The  oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  bake  in  fifteen  minutes. 


103  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

WHEAT  GEMS. 

MRS.  T.  E.  BROWN. 

One  tea-cup  of  milk,  one  full  cup  of  wheat  flour,  a  little  salt, 
one  ^^^.     Bake  in  gem  pans. 

OAT  MEAL  GEMS. 

MRS.  L.  K. 

Soak  two  cups  of  oat  meal  in  two  cups  of  cold  water  and  a  little 
salt,  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  two  cups  of  sour  milk  or  one 
cup  of  milk  and  one  of  cream,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  teaspoons 
soda,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Have  gem  pans  hot  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

PEARL  GRIT  GEMS. 

MRS.  HART. 

Stir  the  grits  into  hot  water,  and  boil  half  an  hour.  When  cold, 
take  three  cups  of  grits,  and  the  same  of  either  white  or  Graham 
flour,  one  pint  of  milk  or  water,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  into  hot 
gem  pans,  and  bake  half  an  ^our,  or  until  brown.  Baking  pow- 
der can  be  used,  though  it  is  unnecessary. 

VIRGINIA  PONE. 

MRS.  KETCH  UM,  CHICAGO. 

Twelve  tablespoons  of  corn  meal,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  Brazil  nut,  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Pour  in  a 
little  hot  water,  then  add  cold  water  enough  to  prevent  scalding 
the  eggs,  two  in  number;  these  must  be  well  beaten  before  put- 
ting in.  Beat  the  whole  together  five  minutes.  Bake  in  iron 
gem-pans  in  a  moderately  quick  oven,  thirty  minutes. 

RICE  GEMS. 

MRS.    WALLACE. 

One  teacup  of  cold,  boiled  rice,  one  pint  of  corn  meal,  scalded, 
with  sufficient  water  to  make  a  thin  batter,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  pinch  of  salt,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder.  Put  the  rice  into  the  scalded  meal,  add  the  but- 
ter, salt  and  the  baking  powder  last.  Have  the  gem-pans  hot 
and  bake  quickly. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  103 

RICE  GEMS. 

MES.   W.  S.  PEITCHARD. 

One  half  pint  of  corn  meal,  scalded,  one  cup  of  rice,  three  eggs, 
salt  to  taste;  enough  milk  to  make  a  batter  the  consistency  of 
griddle  cakes  or  gems. 

FRUIT  GEMS. 

MRS.  HART. 

Take  gem  batter  and  add  chopped  raisins,  dates  and  figs, 
together  or  separate;  roll  the  fruit  in  dry  flour.  Suit  your  taste 
as  to  proportions  of  fruit.  If  a  little  sweet  cream  is  used  in  mix- 
ing dough,  the  cakes  will  be  nice  enough  for  dessert  or  a  lunch 
for  traveling. 

APPLE  GEMS. 

MRS.  HART. 

Rich  flavored,  tart  apples,  pared,  cored  and  grated,  mixed  with 
gem  dough,  are  nice  if  one  wants  a  simple  fruit  cake.  Take  three 
good  sized  apples  to  one  mold  of  gems;  make  the  dough  nearly 
thick  enough  to  roll. 

RICE  GEMS. 

MRS.  HART. 

Put  to  soak  at  night  a  cup  of  cold,  boiled  rice,  in  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  milk  or  water.  In  the  morning,  add  Graham  flour  until  a 
moderately  stiff  batter  is  formed.  Put  into  hot  gem  pans  and 
bake  quickly. 

MUSH  BISCUIT. 

MRS.  WHITE. 

One  pint  of  well  boiled  mush,  one  pint  of  new  milk,  one-half 
pint  of  yeast,  two  tablespoons  of  lard.  Prepare  flour  with  a  little 
salt,  put  in  the  mush  and  milk  while  hot,  then  let  it  cool  before 
adding  the  yeast.  Knead  in  sufficient  flour  to  prevent  the  dough 
adhering  to  the  hands.  It  is  improved  by  being  frequently 
kneaded.  Roll,  and  cut  as  biscuit,  and  let  them  rise  one-half 
hour  before  baking. 

BEAT  BISCUIT. 

MRS.   MARY  WARREN,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  lard;  mix  with  water  very 
stiff  and  beat  well  one  hour. 


104  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

FAIRY  BISCUIT. 

LELAND  HOTEL,  SPRINGFIELD,  ILL. 

Rub  two  ounces  of  butter  with  one-half  pound  of  flour,  add 
four  ounces  of  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  almond  flavoring,  the 
white  of  an  ^^^  and  one  tablespoon  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  sweet 
almonds  well  pounded;  work  well  into  paste.  Take  up  pieces 
the  size  of  half  a  dollar  and  bake  a  few  minutes  on  buttered 
paper. 

BAKING-POWDER  BISCUIT. 

MRS.   KETCHUM,  CHICAGO. 

K  novel  way  of  baking  them  makes  a  very  pleasing  variety. 
(Use  any  baking-powder  receipt.)  Roll  the  dough  thinner  than 
ordinarily;  spread  it  well  with  butter  that  has  been  softened; 
dust  a  good  sprinkling  of  white  sugar  over  and  roll  it  up.  Cut 
slices  off  from  the  end  the  usual  thickness,  allowing  for  consid- 
erable rising.     They  ought  to  be  light  and  flaky. 

SODA  BISCUIT. 

MRS.   C.  H.  SWEENEY. 

Take  four  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar,  rub  it  well  through  two 
quarts  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  butter  the  size  of  a  goose 
0.^^  also  rubbed  in  the  flour.  Take  three  coffee-cups  of  sweet 
milk,  dissolve  two  teaspoons  of  soda  in  the  milk  and  mix  all 
together  soft.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT.     . 

E.  A.  C . 

Mix  three  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  thoroughly, 
with  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  add  one  large  spoon  of  lard, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  cold  water  or  sweet  milk  enough  to 
mix  soft.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Be  careful  not  to  work  more 
than  necessary  in  mixing  the  ingredients  together. 

«  SOUR  MILK  BISCUIT. 

E.   A.   C . 

Two  quarts  of  flour,  one  even  teaspoon  of  soda;  pulverize  it 
very  fine  with  a  knife,  and  mix  thoroughly  in  the  flour;  two  large 
spoons  of  lard  rubbed  in  the  flour,  sour  milk  to  mix  soft,  and  salt. 
Roll  thin,  and  bake  quickly. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  105 

UNLEAVENED  BISCUIT. 

MRS.  S.  P.  WISNER,  CEDAR  RAPIDS. 

Five  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  quart  of  water,  a  little  warm, 
white  of  one  ^^g-,  well  beaten.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  small 
tins. 

MRS.  HODGES'  BISCUIT. 

MRS.   W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

One  cup  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  cream  tartar  in  flour  or 
three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  lump  of  lard  the  size  of  an 
egg,  three  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  to  one  of  soda.  Dissolve  the 
soda  in  a  little  hot  water  and  stir  in  after  mixing,  using  a  spoon 
entirely. 

BROWN  BISCUITS. 

MRS.   J.  M.  SWEENEY,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Mix  together  Graham  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  pint  of 
sour  cream  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda.  Roll  out,  cut  into  biscuit 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BATTER  CAKES. 

MRS.   J.  M.  OTIS. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  tablespoon  of  salt,  whites  of 
four  eggs,  two  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Stir 
the  salt  in  the  milk,  add  the  flour  till  you  have  a  pretty  stiff  bat- 
ter, next  stir  in  the  baking  powder  and  add  the  whites,  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth  the  last  thing,  mixing  the  whole  gently. 

BATTER  CAKES. 

MRS.  PAGE,  IOWA  CITT. 

One  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  eggs,  the 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  two  tablespoons  of  butter  or 
lard  or  one  of  each,  a  little  salt.  Stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  light,  the  last  thing,  with  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  batter. 

BATTER  CAKES. 

MRS.  G.  R.   OSGOOD. 

One-half  pint  of  sour  cream,  one-half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  nearly  one  quart  of  sifted  flour. 


106  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

RYE  DROP  CAKES. 

MRS.  G.  E.  OSGOOD. 

Two  cups  of  rye,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
a  little  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one 
teaspoon  of  cream  tartar  in  flour. 

FARINA  CAKES. 

MRS.  WALLACE. 

Take  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  stir  in 
enough  farina  to  make  a  stiff  batter  and  let  it  cool,  then  stir  in 
eight  eggs,  well  beaten,  small  piece  of  butter,  salt  to  season  well. 
A  little  chopped  parsley  improves  the  taste.  Cook  as  batter 
cakes. 

AUNT  RACHEL'S  FLANNEL  CAKES. 

MRS.  A.  y.  RAWSON. 

One  quart  warm  water,  a  little  more  than  lukewarm,  one  cup 
yeast,  one  cup  corn  meal  and  flour  enough  to  make  very  stift'. 
Let  it  rise  overnight  for  breakfast,  or  mix  at  noon  for  tea.  When 
light,  or  just  before  baking,  put  in  one  Q^g.,  one  scant  cup  of 
milk  or  cream,  one  teaspoon  soda  and  one  of  salt.  The  batter 
will  be  very  thin.      Bake  on  griddles  as  pancakes. 

RICE  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

MRS.   J.   CARPENTER. 

Two  cups  of  rice  in  three  pints  of  water;  boil  until  perfectly  soft; 
mash  fine  with  a  spoon  and  add  a  little  salt.  When  cool,  add  two 
eggs  beaten  very  light,  then  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk;  beat 
in  by  degrees  six  tea  cups  of  flour.  Beat  all  thoroughly  together, 
then  stir  in  one  tablespoon  of  soda.  Bake  on  a  griddle  in  small 
cakes.     Eat  with  butter  and  sugar. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES  WITH  SOUR  MILK. 

MRS.  E.  P.   CHASE. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter,  not 
too  stiff,  one  even  tablespoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  soda 
(if  the  milk  is  very  sour,  add  more).  Bake  in  small  cakes.  They 
are  very  nice. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  107 

YEAST  BUCKWHEATS. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE, 

Take  three  pints  of  warm  water,  even  tablespoon  of  salt;  stir 
in  buckwheat  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Beat  it  thor- 
oughly, then  add  one-half  pint  of  yeast.  Set  the  batter  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  over  night.  Put  in  a  small  teaspoon  of  soda  just  be- 
fore baking. 

NICE  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

JENNIE  M.  CHASE. 

One  pint  sour  cream,  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
four  eggs,  flour  enough  lio  make  a  thin  batter,  one  teaspoon  or 
more  of  soda.     Bake  on  griddles  well  greased. 

CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES  WITH  WATER. 

MRS.  C.  H.  SWEE^TEY. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal,  one  tablespoon  of  lard.  Pour  boiling 
water  (be  sure  the  water  is  boiling),  to  make  a  stiff  mush,  then  thin 
with  cold  water,  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  a  large  pinch  of 
salt;  also  tablespoon  of  syrup. 

CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

CARRIE  BECK. 

One  pint  of  sour  milk,  three  eggs;  meal  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  small  teaspoon  of  soda,  or  less, 
according  to  the  sourness  of  the  milk. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  one  even  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  a 
little  salt  thoroughly  mixed  in  the  flour,  one-half  cup  of  but- 
ter or  lard  rubbed  in  the  flour,  one  pint  of  sour  cream,  and,  if  nee  • 
essary,  sweet  milk  sufiicient  to  mix  a  soft  dough.  Mix  the  dough 
as  lightly  as  possible,  and  avoid  kneading  more  than  necessary. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  "done,  split  the  cake  and  spread 
with  sweet  butter;  sugar  the  strawberries,  and  put  a  thick  layer 
between  the  parts.     Serve  with  sweetened  cream.  , 


108  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

RASPBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

MRS.  E.  A.  C. 

One  quart  of  flour,  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and  a 
little  salt  thoroughly  mixed  in  flour,  one  half  cup  of  butter  or  lard 
rubbed  in  the  flour.  Mix  with  water,  soft.  Roll  in  cakes  and 
score  the  top  in  squares  or  diamonds.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  done,  split  the  cake  open  and  spread  with  butter.  Mash 
and  sweeten  the  raspberries,  adding  one-half  cup  of  water  to  make 
more  juice.  Put  the  berries  between  the  two  parts  of  the  cake, 
^d  serve  with  sweetened  cream. 

SHORT  CAKE, 

MRS.  M.  A.  CARPENTER,  RYE,  N.   Y. 

One  quart  thick  sour  cream,  two  teaspoons  of  soda,  a  little  salt, 
flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

CREAM  TOAST. 

MRS.  E.  A.  C.  ♦ 

One  quart'  of  rich  milk,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  two  tablespoons  of  flour.  Mix  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
stir  in  the  boiling  milk;  add  the  butter  and  salt,  and  take  from  the 
fire.  Toast  the  bread  brown  and  dip  in  the  cream;  lay  in  a  deep 
dish  and  pour  the  remainder  of  the  cream  over  it. 

SARATOGA  TOAST. 

MRS.  E,  A.  C. 

Take  one  or  two  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  one  pint  of  milk  or 
water,  pinch  of  salt.  Slice  stale  bread,  dip  in  the  mixture  and  fry 
brown  on  griddles  well  greased  with  lard  and  butter  mixed. 

BREAKFAST  GEMS, 

DR,  W.  H.  DICKINSON. 

Beat  two  eggs  thoroughly,  and  mix  with  a  pint  of  sweet 
milk.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stifi"  batter.  Stir  into  the  batter  a  tablespoon  of  melted  lard  or 
butter,  and  bake  in  gem  pans,  first  well  heated. 

This  receipt  makes  first-rate  cakes  with  corn  meal  instead  of 
flour. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  109 

NICE  BREAKFAST  CAKES. 

MRS.  C.  C.  HOWELL. 

Three  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  three  tablespoons  of  hot 
water.  Put  these  into  a  coffee-cup,  and  fill  to  overflowing  with 
molasses;  add  two  teaspoons  soda,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  and  a 
little  cinnamon.     Mix  soft  and  roll  out. 


BREAKFAST  CAKEjS. 


MRS.  HARKNESS.  ^ 

'.C'' 

One  pint  of  meal,  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  spoon  of  soda  sift- 
ed in  the  meal,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  all  thoroughly- 
beaten.  Bake  quickly.  If  preferred,  sweet  milk  and  baking 
powder  can  be  used. 

LArt.AND  CAKES. 

MRS.   PHILLIP  SKINNER. 

Beat  very  light  five  eggs  with  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  then  beat 
in  well  one  and  one-half  pints  flour;  bake  in  tins  or  cups  in  quick 
oven. 

WAFFLES. 

MRS.  J.  G.   SPRAGUE. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  quart  of  sour 
milk  with  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  in  it,  five  well-beaten 
eggs,  saleratus  enough  to  sweeten  milk.     Bake  in  waffle  irons. 

WAFFLES. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART, 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  eggs  beaten 
separately.     Make  a  little  stiffer  than  pancakes. 
# 

RICE  WAFFLES. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

One  and  one  half  tumblers  of  boiled  rice;  warm  it  in  one  pint 
of  milk,  stir  till  smooth,  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  one  pint  of 
cold  milk,  four  eggs,  salt  and  flour  for  a  thick  batter. 


110  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

WAFFLES. 

MBS.    W.  S.   PRnCHARD. 

One  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar, 
flour  to  make  a  batter  rather  stiffer  than  pancakes. 

FRITTERS. 

MES.  WiM.    II.  EAT,  EUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  ^^^^  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  flour  to  make  batter  thick  enough  to  drop  from 
spoon.  Drop  in  hot  lard  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Eat  with  cream, 
sugar  and  nutmeg  for  sauce. 

FRITTERS. 

MES.  F.  V.   STOWE. 

One  pint  of  milk,  five  eggs  well  beaten,  pinch  of  salt,  flour 
to  make  a  thin  batter.  Drop  from  a  spoon  into  boiling  lard,  and 
fry  quickly.  -  Serve  hot,  with  melted  sugar,  flavored  with  lemon 
or  vinegar. 

RICE  FRITTERS. 

MRS.    J.   CARPENTER. 

Two  cups  of  boiled  rice,  four  eggs,  a  little  flour,  pinch  of  salt. 
Drop  the  batter  in  hot  lard,  and  keep  stirring  all  the  time.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

MRS.   C.   H.   SWEENEY. 

Twelve  ears  of  corn,  good  sized,  three  heaping  tablespoons  of 
corn  meal,  one  ^^^i  and  salt  to  taste.  Fry  brown  in  butter  or 
lard;  drop  in  medium  sized  spoonfuls  on  the  griddle. 

FRUIT  FRITTERS. 

MRS.  TIIEO.  CARPENTER. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  cream,  six  eggs,  one  and' one-half 
pints  of  flour,  a  little  salt.  Mix  with  this  any  kind  of  berries 
or  sliced  apples  or  peaches,  and  fry  in  small  cakes  in  hot  lard.  Serve 
with  sauce  or  butter  and  sugar. 


BREAD  AND  YEAST.  Ill 

PUFFETS. 

MRS.  J.  P.   FOSTER, 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  in  the  flour, 
butter  the  size  of  an  ^^^.,  whites  and  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten 
separately.  Put  all  together  and  mix  with  one  pint  of  milk;  add 
a  teaspoon  of  soda  the  last  thing.  This  makes  nice  dumplings 
for  pot-pie,  or  soup. 

WHIGS.     NO.  1. 

One  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  quarts  of  flour, 
butter  the  size  of  an  ^^^  in  the  flour,  salt.  Bake  in  cups,  three- 
fourths  full,  for  one  hour.     Nice  for  tea. 

WHIGS.     NO.  2. 

ANNA  ALLEN,   BROOKLYN. 

Three-fourths  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
milk,  three  eggs,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  salt,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  three  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar. 

CRUMPETS. 

MRS.  CLEGHORN. 

One  quart  warm  sweet  milk,  one  teacup  of  yeast,  salt,  flour  to 
make  a  batter  not  very  stifi".  When  light,  add  one-half  cup  of 
melted  butter  or  cream.  Let  stand  twenty  minutes.  Bake  as 
muffins. 

DES  MOINES  CRUMPETS. 

E.  A.  C . 


Three  cups  of  raised  dough,  one-half  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream,  three  eggs,  one  coflFeecup  of  milk.  Pour  in  buttered  pans 
and  let  rise  one-half  hour.     Bake  till  done. 

ROYAL  CRUMPETS. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Three  teacups  of  raised  dough,  four  tablespoons  of  melted  but- 
ter, three  eggs,  one  teacup  of  sugar;  knead  butter,  eggs  and 
sugar  well  into  the  dough.  Put  in  buttered  tins;  bake  twenty- 
minutes.     Serve  with  susrar. 


112  BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

BEST  MODE  OF  COOKING  OAT  ME-AL. 

MRS.  KETCHUM,  CHICAGO. 

Mush. — Put  one  pint  of  oat  meal  to  soak  in  warm  water  (just 
enough  to  cover  it),  a  few  hours  before  cooking;  then  put  this 
mixture  into  boiling  water,  salted  a  little,  and  let  it  cook 
slowly  for  half  an  hour  or  longer.  To  be  eaten  hot  or  cold  with 
butter  and  sugar  or  with  cream  and  sugar, 

A  Heartier  Dish  is  made  by  cooking  it  with  the  water  in 
which  meat  has  been  boiled,  skimming  off  the  fat  and  serving 
with  the  meat  the  same  as  a  vegetable. 

Soup. — Cook  meat  until  very  tender,  removing  it  from  the 
bones;  chop  very  fine  and  cook  with  oat  meal. 

Pudding. — Take  eggs,  milk,  sugar,  raisins  and  cinnamon,  the 
same  as  for  other  puddings. 

For  the  Invalid — have  it  thin,  like  gruel,  and  serve  with  sugar 
and  milk,  or  cream  if  it  can  be*  taken.  In  oat  meal  are  the  ma- 
terials for  growth  of  muscle  and  bones  and  substance  for  the 
brain  and  nerves. 

CRACKED  WHEAT. 

Put  in  a  tin  pail  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Cover 
closely  and  let  it  boil  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Soak  it 
previously  the  same  as  oat  meal,  stirring  the  mixture  into  boiling 
water. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Prepare  same  as  above,  and  boil  from  two  to  three  hours. 


fl^&. 


.^ 


^N  making  paste,  use  ice  water.     Have  the  lard  and  but- 
ter cold  and  hard.     Do  not  knead  the  dough,  but  mix  it 
,^4*  ^^  ^'g^tly  as  possible. 
^[p*       One  tablespoon  of  molasses  in  fruit  pies  is  a  great  im- 
provement. 

PASTE. 

MRS.  H.  D.  FOSTER. 

Two  large  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  water,  a  half  cup  of  butter, 
a  half  cup  of  lard  and  a  little  salt.  This  will  make  two  pies.  To 
make  crust  look  rich,  take  the  white  of  an  egg,  well  beaten,  and 
spread  it  upon  the  pies  lightly,  with  a  feather,  just  before  putting 
them  into  the  oven;  one  egg  to  five  pies. 

PUFF  PASTE. 

MRS.  J.  B.   STEWART. 

One  pound  of  butter,  washed  and  frozen,  and  one  pound  of  flour; 
mix  half  the  butter  with  most  of  the  flour,  and  use  as  little  (ice) 
water  to  mix  with  as  possible ;  roll  out  and  put  the  rest  of  the  but- 
ter on  in  pieces;  double  and  roll  again;  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven; 
pack  away  in  tin.     This  makes  one  hundred  tarts. 

CREAM  PASTE. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Take  one  pint  of  sour  cream,  buttermilk  or  sour  milk;  beat  into 
it  one  pint  of  flour;  then  stir  into  it  one  teaspoon  of  finely  pow- 
dered soda;  add  as  much  more  flour  as  will  be  required  to  make 
a  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll;  put  into  it,  the  last  thing,  one  even 
tablespoon  of  salt.  The  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten  very  light,  makes 
it  richer.     Good  for  chicken  pie. 

8  113 


114  PIES. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

MES.  W.  BURTON. 

Three  pounds  of  suet,  four  pounds  of  beef,  eight  pounds  of 
chopped  apples,  three  pounds  of  currants,  three  pounds  of  raisins, 
seeded,  two  pounds  of  citron,  six  pounds  of  sugar,  two  lemons,  gra- 
ted, one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  a  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  a  fourth 
of  an  ounce  of  mace,  four  nutmegs,  three  pints  of  syrup  off  sweet 
pickle  (spiced  grapes  are  good);  add  the  apple  as  you  bake.  It 
it  excellent. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

MRS.  C.   A.  PARROTT,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Three  bowls  of  beef,  three  bowls  of  apples,  one  bowl  of  citron, 
chopped  fine,  two  bowls  of  raisins,  four  bowls  of  sugar,  one  bowl 
of  molasses,  one  bowl  of  vinegar,  two  bowls  of  currants,  two  bowls 
of  suet,  one  bowl  of  syrup  off  sweet  pickles,  and  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg and  cloves  to  suit  the  taste. 

MOCK  MINCE  MEAT. 

MRS.  C.  B.  SMITH,  MT.  CARROLL,  ILL.  « 

Six  soda  crackers,  rolled  fine,  three  cups  of  cold  water,  two  cups 
of  molasses,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  cider  or  vin- 
egar, one  cup  melted  butter  or  chopped  suet,  a  half  cup  of  raisins^ 
seeded  and  chopped,  a  half  cup  of  currants,  two  eggs,  beaten  light, 
one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg; 
eight  or  nine  apples,  chopped  fine,  and  two  cups  of  beef  broth. 
I  use  this  in  preference  to  the  old  way,  and  no  one  has  detected 
the  imitation. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

MRS.  CARPENTER. 

Four  pounds  of  beef,  boiled  in  salted  water  till  very  tender, 
and,when  cold, chopped  fine, eight  pounds  of  apples,  chopped,  three 
pounds  of  suet,  three  pounds  of  currants,  three  pounds  of  raisins, 
two  pounds  of  citron,  six  pounds  of  sugar,  a  fourth  of  an  ounce  of 
cloves,  a  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon, 
nutmegs  and  orange  peel;  moisten  with  sweet  cider. 


PIES.  115 

SUMMER  MINCE  PIE. 

MRS.   F.  J.   FISHER,  BROOKLYN,  L.  I. 

Five  soda  crackers,  rolled  fine,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  water, 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  cider,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, a  third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  raisins,  cinna- 
mon, nutmeg  and  cloves,  and  two  eggs,  to  be  put  in  the  last  thing. 

MINCE  PIE. 

MRS.   E.  S.  SPEED,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Five  pounds  of  beef,  three  pounds  of  suet,  eight  pounds  of  ap- 
ples, six  pounds  of  raisins,  six  pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of 
citron,  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  orange  peel,  a  half  gallon 
of  cider,  a  quart  of  molasses,  a  pint  of  vinegar,  and  syrup  off 
sweet  pickles.     Sweeten  to  the  taste. 

POOR  MAN'S  PIE.. 

MRS.  F.  A.  PARKER,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Put  your  bottom  crust  into  the  pan;  sprinkle  over  the  crust  one 
large  teaspoon  of  flour;  add  one  large  coffee-cup  of  sugar,  one 
very  large  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  cut  in 
pieces,  two  tablespoons  of  molasses,  and  enough  water  to  wet  the 
sugar;  bake  with  or  without  top  crust  as  you  prefer. 

DELICATE  PIE. 

MRS.    HETTIE  SPRAGUE,  OSHKOSH,  WIS. 

To  one  large  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water,  add  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  and,  when  cool,  one  Q^'g., 
one  lemon  (rind  and  juice),  a  little  salt,  and  one  cup  of  sugar. 
Bake  between  two  crusts. 

CHEESE  CAKES. 

MRS.  M.  A.   RICH,  STERLING,  ILL. 

One  pound  of  curd,  (twelve  ounces  to  the  pound),  eight  ounces 
of  butter,  fourteen  ounces  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  and  seven  drops 
of  lemon.  Stir  together;  line  some  patty  pans  with  rich  paste, 
then  fill. 


116  PIES. 


CHEESE  CAKES. 

MRS.    HENKY  SCRIBNER. 


A  half  poujid  of  butter,  a  half  pound  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  and 
a  little  flavoring.  Put  a  slice  of  citron  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan, 
after  lining  it  with  good  paste. 


COCOANUT  PIE. 

MRS     THEO.    CARPENTER. 

One  cocoanut  grated,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  and  one 
quart  of  milk.     Bake  in  an  under  crust. 

VINEGAR  PIE. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

Four  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  five  tablespoons  of  water,  one  tea- 
spoon of  flour,  a  half  teacup  of  sugar,  and  butter  the  size  of  a 
hickory-nut. 

APPLE  FLORINDINES. 

MRS.  THEO.  CARPENTER. 

One  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs,  two  fall  pippins  grated,  and  one 
grated  lemon.     Sweeten  to  the  taste.     No  top  crust. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE. 

MRS.  MARY  WARREN,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Six  apples,  stewed,  sweetened  and  flavored  to  the  taste,  a 
half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  cream  and  four  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE. 

MRS.  R.   T.  WELLSLAGER. 

Grate  four  sour  apples,  beat  with  two  eggs,  grate  in  one  nut- 
meg, fill  up  with  cream;  add  raisins  and  sugar. 

WASHINGTON  PIE. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  three 
cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  two  teaspoons  of  cream 
tartar.  Bake  in  thin  cakes  and  spread  thick  layers  of  fresh 
apple-sauce  between.     Better  eaten  warm. 


PIES.  117 

WASHINGTON  PIE. 

MRS.  S.  P.  WISNEE,  CEDAR  RAPIDS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  ^^^^ 
three  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  one-fourth  of  a  tea- 
spoon of  soda;  flavor  to  the  taste.  Bake  them  in  round  tins,  and 
spread  raspberry  jam  between  the  two  layers. 

CREAM  PIE. 

Instead  of  baking  a  Washington  pie  in  two  layers,  bake  it  in 
three,  and  spread  cream  between.  The  pie  must  be  entirely  cold 
before  putting  together.  Make  the  following  cream  for  filling: 
Scald  one  pint  of  new  milk;  mix  together  and  add  two  table- 
spoons of  corn  starch,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  two  eggs; 
flavor  with  lemon.  A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  q^^  im- 
proves it.  When  nearly  cold,  spread  between  the  cakes,  using 
all  the  cream;  sift  sugar  over  the  top,  when  all  together.  To  be 
eaten  the  day  the  cream  is  put  in. 

CREAM  PIE. 

MRS.  HAKKNESS. 

One  pint  of  cream,  white  of  one  ^^^^  and  one  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  flour.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  the  taste.  >  Paste  as  for 
custard  pie. 

CREAM  PIE. 

MRS.    H.   SPRAGUE,  OSHKOSH,  WIS. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon 
of  corn  starch,  and  one  cup  of  cream.  Boil  the  milk  and  add  the 
corn  starch  until  it  thickens,  then  take  off  and  add  the  eggs  and 
sugar.     Bake  in  an  under  crust. 

CREAM   PIE. 

MRS.  P.  CORNING. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  and  a  half 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  in  two  pie- 
tins.  To  make  cr'eam  for  the  above,  take  two  eggs,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  a  half  cup  of  flour,  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  small 
piece  of  butter.     Flavor  with  vanilla,  and  put  between  the  cakes. 


118  PIES. 

CREAM  PIE, 

MRS.    WM.  CHASE,  KOSEMOND,   ILL. 

Six  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons 
of  cream  tartar  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  two  teaspoons 
of  cold  milk.  This  makes  three  pies.  When  cold,  split  them 
and  put  in  the  cream,  made  as  follows  :  One  pint  of  milk,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  flour  and  two  eggs.  Beat  all  together 
and  pour  into  the  milk,  when  boiling;  flavor  to  the  taste. 

CREAM  PIE. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Three  pints  of  rich  cream,  five  eggs,  and  One  cup  of  sugar. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  grated  rind  of  one  lemon;  cover  a  deep 
pie-tin  with  rich  paste  and  fill  with  the  cream.  This  quantity  is 
sufficient  for  two  pies. 

CREAM  PIE. 

MRS.   T.  E.  BROWX. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  milk.  Flavor  to  the  taste; 
put  the  yolks  and  whites  together,  or,  spread  the  whites  over  the 
top  of  the  pie. 

MARLBOROUGH  PIE. 

MARY  ALLEN,  RYE,  N.  Y. 

One  cup  of  stewed  apples,  sifted,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 

milk,  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter,  two   eggs,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

No  top  crust. 

CRACKER  PIE. 

MRS.  W.   S.  PRITCHARD. 

Three  crackers,  for  a  small  pie;  one  large  teacup  of  water,  one 

teacup  of  sugar,  and  one  small   teaspoon   of  tartaric   acid.     Roll 

the    crackers,   and    throw    them    into   the   water.       Flavor    with 

lemon. 

LEMON  CUSTARD. 

,  MRS.   W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

One  lemon,  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  one  quart  of  new  milk, 
and  six  eggs.      Bake  in  a  rich  crust. 


PIES.  119 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  five  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  one  small 
teacup  of  white  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together;  pour 
in  the  milk  and  flavor  with  nutmeg;  line  pie-tins  with  rich  paste 
and  fill  with  the  custard.     This  will  make  two  pies. 

LEMON  PIE,  WITH  THREE  CRUSTS. 

MRS.  PUTiSTA-M. 

Two  lemons,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs.  Grate  the  rind  of 
the  lemon;  take  off  the  white  skin  and  chop  the  inside.  Mix  all 
together;  then  put  a  layer  of  thin  paste  upon  the  plate,  then  a 
layer  of  the  lemon,  another  layer  of  paste,  another  of  lemon  and 
the  top  crust. 

LEMON  PIE. 

MISS    EMMA  HOWELL. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  tvvo  cups  of  sugar,  four 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  a  half  cup  of  water,  and  the  yolks 
of  six  eggs.  Mix  well,  and  bake  slowly;  when  done,  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
and  one  teaspoon  of  lemon;  spread  upon  the  top  of  the  pie,  return 
to  the  stove,  and  brown  quickly.  This  will  make  three  pies  on 
ordinary  sized  plates.       Very  nice. 

LEMON  PIE. 

MRS.  T.  E.  BROWN. 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  water,  one  &^^,  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  and  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  ^^^.  Boil  the  water;  then  wet  the  corn 
starch  with  a  little  cold  water  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  water; 
pour  it  upon  the  sugar  and  butter;  when  cold  add  the  lemon  and 
^SS-     This  will  make  one  pie  with  one  crust. 

LEMON  PIE  WITH  TWO  CRUSTS. 

One  lemon,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  ^^'g.,  one  cup  of  water  and 
two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch.     This  makes  one  large  pie. 


120  PIES. 

LEMON  PIE. 

MBS.  J.   CARPENTER. 

Two  lemons,  five  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  and 
eight  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  both  lemons, 
and  grate  the  rind  of  one;  stir  together  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
and  white  of  one,  with  the  sugar,  butter  and  lemon;  beat  well, 
then  add  one  coffee-cup  of  sweet  cream  and  beat  two  or  three 
minutes.  This  will  make  two  pies.  Bake  until  the  crust  is  done, 
theli  beat  the  remaining  whites  of  the  eggs  with  four  tablespoons 
of  sugar;  spread  on  the  pie,  and  return  quickly  to  the  oven  before 
the  &^^  is  set,  which  will  cause  the  pie  to  fall,  when  taken  from 

the  oven. 

LEMON  PIE. 

MRS.  G.  M.  HIPPEE. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  three  lemons,  a  half  cup  of  melted 
butter,  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  one  cup  of  water,  three 
cups  of  sugar,  and  nine  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
Stir  all  together,  beating  the  whites  in  well,  the  last  thing.  Bake 
with  one  crust.     Will  make  three  pies.     Delicious. 

LEMON  PIE. 

For  one  pie,  take  one  lemon,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 

tablespoon  of  corn  starch  and  one  cup  of  boiling  water.     Put  the 

starch  into  the  water  with  a  piece   of  butter  the  size  of  a  large 

nutmeg;  grate    the  lemon;    leave  the    whites    of  the    eggs    for 

the  top. 

LEMON  PIE. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

One  lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  teaspoons  of  corn  starch, 
three  eggs,  and  one  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Use  the  yolks  in  the 
pie;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  three  tablepoons  of 
sugar  to  each  white  and  spread  upon  the  top. 

LEMON  TARTS. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  water,  two  eggs  and 
a  little  butter. 


PIES.  ,  131 

LEMON  PIE. 

MKS.  J.  B.   STEWART. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  three- fourths  of  a  cup  of  water, 
one  lemon,  and  one  spoon  of  corn  starch.  Beat  the  sugar  and 
grated  rind  of  lemon  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  juice  of  lemon,  water 
and  corn  starch;  cook  in  hot  water  until  it  thickens;  fill  the  pie  and 
bake.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar, 
spread  over  the  pie,  when  baked,  then  bake  a  light  brown. 

LEMON  PUFFS. 

MRS.  WOOLSEY,  ROSEMOND,  ILL. 

Make  a  rich  paste;  roll  out  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter;  in  the 
center  of  every  other  one,  cut  a  hole  with  a  wineglass  and  put  it  on 
one  uncut.  Before  putting  them  into  the  oven,  brush  over  with 
the  white  of  an  i^^g\  then  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Filling  of  the  Puffs. — Six  well  beaten  eggs,  grated  rinds  of 
three  lemons,  one  pound  of  white  sugar  and  a  fourth  of  a  pound 
of  butter.  Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  juice  of  the 
lemons  and  the  other  ingredients  except  the  eggs,  and  simmer; 
when  hot,  turn  in  the  eggs,  stir  quickly  for  five  minutes,  then 
remove  the  pan  and  put  it  into  cold  water.  This  can  be  kept  in 
jars  for  months  and  used  when  desired. 

LEMON  APPLE  PIE. 

MRS.  HUDSON,  NEW  BEDFORD,  CONN. 

Three  lemons,  three  large  apples  and  three  eggs.  Squeeze  the 
juice  of  the  lemons  and  grate  the  rind  of  one  and  a  half.  Chop 
the  apples  fine  and  put  them  into  a  pan;  add  the  lemons,  and  stir  in 
two  cups  of  sugar;  beat  together  the  eggs  and  a  third  of  a  cup  of 
sugar,  till  very  light;  then  stir  all  together.  Make  a  rich  paste; 
bake  with  an  upper  and  under  crust.     This  will  make  three  pies. 

CHOPPED  APPLE  PIE. 

MRS.  HUDSON.  ' 

Fourteen  good-sized  greening  apples,  chopped  fine,  one  pound 
of  raisins,  six  eggs,  one  tumbler  of  sweet  cider,  one  cup  of  butter, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  salt,  nutmeg  and  cloves. 


122  PIES. 

PEACH  COBBLER. 

MRS.  E,  P.   CUASE. 

Make  a  rich  paste;  roll  out;  line  a  deep,  square  baking-pan, 
and  fill  the  pan  with  peeled  peaches;  sweeten  to  the  taste j*  add  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  one  tablespoon. of  syrup; 
put  on  an  upper  crust,  and  bake  a  half  hour,  or  until  done.  Very 
srood  with  or  without  cream. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

MRS.   E.  P.  CHASE. 

One  quart  of  stewed  squash,  three  pints  of  rich  milk,  six  eggs, 
three  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  a  half  nutmeg  and  Ih'ree  large 
cups  of  sugar.     Mix  the  above,  pouring  the  milk  in  last. 

NEW  ENGLAND  PUMPKIN  PIE. 

MRS.  A.  Y.    RAWSON. 

Peel  and  cut  your  pumpkin  into  small  pieces  and  put  into  a 
kettle  with  a  very  little  water;  cook  from  six  to  eight  hours,  stir- 
ring frequently  to  prevent  burning.  -  When  done,  rub  through  a 
colander.  One  quart  of  pumpkin,  tlipee  pints  of.  rich  milk,  four 
eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  scant  teaspoon  of  ginger  and 
four  teaspoons  of  cinnamon. 

SLICED  SWEET  POTATO  PIE. 

AUNT  RACHEL. 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  and  slice  into  lower  crust  like  apples;  add 
three  or  four  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  and  sugar  and  spice  to  the 
taste  (allspice  is  best);  put  in  more  butter  than  for  apple  pie, 
and  cover  the  upper  crust. 

SWEET  POTATO  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Like  squash  pie,  only  using  sweet  potatoes,  boiled  and  rubbed 
through  a  colander,  instead  of  squash.      Add  a  little  butter. 


wDDixa^. 


™'^  OIL  puddings  in  a  mold  or  bag  (a  small  tin  bucket,  set 
in  boiling  water,  answers  very  well.)  Grease  the  mold 
or  pail  with  lard.  Dip  the  bag  into  boiling  water,  and 
flour  it  well,  before  putting  the  pudding  into  it.  In  tying 
•  ^  bags,  always  leave  room  for  the  puddings  to  swell.  Have 
the  water  boiling  before  you  put  them  into  it,  and  be  sure 
to  add  boiling  water,  if  necessary  to  add  any.  Put  a  small 
plate  or  tin  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  to  prevent  sticking.  Have 
water  enough  in  the  kettle  to  float  the  pudding,  so  that  it  can  be 
turned  often.  When  the  pudding  is  done,  plunge  it  suddenly 
into  cold  water;  turn  out  quickly,  and  serve  immediately.  Never 
let  custards  bake  too  long,  or  they  will  be  watery. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  B.   STEWART. 

Two  cups  of  beef  suet,  two  cups  of  chopped  raisins,  a  half  cup 
of  citron,  one  cup  of  molasses,  a  half  cup  of  sugar,  and  spices. 
Mix  all  together  and  chop  fine;  take  two  cups  of  water;  thicken 
with  flour  enough  to  make  a  stift'  batter;  break  in  three  eggs, 
beat  well;  butter  the  tin  pudding-boiler  and  boil  three  hours. 

BOILED  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

MRS.   J.  PARMELEE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  beef  suet,  chopped  fine,  two 
pounds  of  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped,  two  pounds  of  currants,  a 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron,  chopped  fine,  eight  eggs,  one  pound 
of  brown  sugar,  one  teacup  of  molasses,  salt,  and  spice  to  the 
taste.  Boil  five  hours  and  serve  with  the  following  sauce:  One 
large  tablespoon  of  flour,  a  half  cup  of  butter  and  a  little  salt. 
Boil  a  few  minutes;  then  add  sugar  and  flavor  to  the  taste. 

123 


124:  PUDDINGS. 

BAKED  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Three  pints  of  new  milk,  one  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
cofiFee-cup  of  brown  sugar,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  suet  chopped 
fine,  six  eggs,  one  pound  of  raisins,  a  half  pound  of  dried  currants, 
a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron,  two  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoon  of  cloves,  and  the  grated  peel  of  one  lemon.  Bake 
three  hours.  This  pudding  is  better  when  cooked  the  day 
before  it  is  used  and  then  warmed  over.  Serve  with  the  follow- 
ing sauce:  Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Beat  till  very  light  and  grate  nutmeg  over 
the  top. 

BOILED  PLUx\I   PUDDING. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

One  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  a  half  pound  of 
suet,  chopped  fine,  six  eggs,  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons 
of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  and  flour  enough  to  make 
it  like  fruit  cake.     Boil  three  hours. 

CRACKER  PLUM  PUDDING. 

MRS.   J.    CARPENTER. 

Eight  Boston  crackers,  five  pints  of  milk  and  twelve  eggs. 
Make  a  very  sweet  custard;  split  the  crackers,  and  butter  them 
well;  put  a  layer  of  raisins  into  a  large  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
crackers;  pour  on  a  little  of  the  custard,  when  warm;  after  soak- 
ing a  little,  put  on  a  thick  layer  of  raisins,  pressing  them  into  the 
crackers  with  a  knife;  then  another  layer  of  crackers,  custard  and 
fruit,  till  there  are  four  layers;  then  pour  over  enough  custard  to 
rise  even  with  the  crackers.  Make  over  night  so  that  the  crack- 
ers will  soak.  Bake  one  and  a  half  hours;  add  a  little  more 
dressing  the  first  half  hour;  pour  over  a  little  custard  at  three 
different  times,  to  prevent  the  top  from  getting  too  brown,  and 
cover  with  paper. 

BOILED  FLOUR  PUDDING. 

MRS.  S.  P.  WISNER,  CEDAR    RAPIDS. 

Twelve  tablespoons  of  flour,  nine  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk,  and 
a  little  salt.     Put  into  a  bag  and  boil  one  hour.     Serve  with  sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  125 

BAKED  FLOUR  PUDDING. 

MRS.   STAPLES. 

One  quart  of  milk,  two  eo^gs,  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour. 
Wet  the  flour  with  a  little  milk,  then  add  the  eggs;  beat  all  well 
together,  adding  a  little  salt;  boil  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  pour 
over  the  flour  and  eggs;  after  it  is  in  the  oven,  stir  it  two  or 
three  times  before  it  begins  to  brown,  so  that  the  flour  will  not 
settle.     Serve  with  sauce. 

CHRISTMAS  PUDDING. 

MRS.  T.   A.  PARKER. 

One  teacup  of  molasses,  one  teacup  of  sour  milk,  one  teacup  of 
suet,  chopped  fine,  one  teacup  of  chopped  raisins,  one  teacup  of 
currants,  three  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon  of 
soda.     Steam  two  hours;  serve  with  boiled  sauce. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

MRS.  TVM.    H.   RAY,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  coffee-cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  one  coffee-cup  of  raisins, 
chopped,  one  coffee-cup  of  molasses,  one  coffee-cup  of  cold  water, 
one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda  and  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Boil,  in  a  pudding  bag,- three  hours;  serve 
with  sauce. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

MRS.   R.  T.  WELLSLAGER. 

One  coffee-cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup 
of  milk,  three  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  stoned  raisins, 
a  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
cloves  and  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  or  more.  Steam  two 
and  a  half  hours. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  B.  MILLER  AND  MRS.  S.  JOHNS. 

One  cup  of  suet,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  a 
half  teaspoon  of  soda,  or  instead,  one  cup  sweet  milk  with  one 
spoon  baking  powder,  one  ^^'^.,  three  cups  of  flour  one  cup  of 
raisins,  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  spoon  of  cinnamon  and  one 
spoon  of  cloves.     Steam  two  hours  over  a  hot  fire. 


126  PUDDINGS. 

BLACK  PUDDING. 

MRS.  C.  B.  WILLIS. 

One  cup  ot  suet,  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  nut- 
meg, one  cup  of  raisins,  and  salt.     Steam  three  hours. 

GINGER  OR  BLACK  PUDDING. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

One  tea-cup  of  molasses,  one  teacup  of  warm  water,  three  tea- 
cups of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  soda,  in  water,  one  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter,  fruit  to  the  taste  and  ginger.     Sauce. 

BLACK  PUDDING. 

MRS.    CLEGHORN". 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  warm  water,  two  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  cups  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants  and  spice  to  taste.  Steam 
three  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

PEACH  PUDDING. 

MRS.  HARRY    WEST. 

Peel  some  nice  peaches;  put  them  into  a  dish  till  half  full; 
nearly  cover  (not  quite)  with  water;  add  a  half  cup  of  sugar. 
Make  a  crust  of  one  pint  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  mix  with  water;  roll  out  the 
dough,  and  cover  the  dish;  set  it  on  the  top  of  the  stove,  and  cover 
with  another  dish  of  the  same  size.  Let  it  cook  thirty  or  forty 
minutes.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.     This  is  excellent. 

DELMONICO  PUDDING. 

MRS.   J.    B.  STEWART. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  one  stick  of 
cinnamon;  let  ttese  boil;  add  four  tablespoons  of  corn  starch 
dissolved  in  milk,  and  six  eggs,  well  beaten;    stir  till  thick  and 


PUDDINGS.  127 

boil  twenty  minutes.  Beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  six 
tablespoons  of  fine  su^jar;  put  this  over  the  pudding  and  bake  a 
light  brown;  flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla.  Serve  cold  with 
sweet  cream,  sugar  and  nutmeg. 

ICE  FARINA  PUDDING. 

MRS.   J.    CARPENTER. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk;  stir  into  it  four  large  tablespoons  of 
farina,  dissolved  in  part  of  the  milk;  boil  a  half  hour;  when  done, 
flavor,  turn  into  a  mold,  and  place  upon  ice.  Eat  with  sugar 
and  cream. 

BERRY  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  ^^^.,  a  half 
pint  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  in  the  milk,  two  teaspoons  of 
cream  tartar  in  the  flour,  three  eggs  and  one  pint  of  berries.  Make 
as  stiff  as  pound  cake  and  boil  two  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

WHORTLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.   P.  FOSTER. 

One  pint  of  whortleberries,  one  cup  of  molasses,  a  half  cup  of 
water,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  and  one  teaspoon 
of  salt.     Boil  three  hours  or  bake  one. 

PLAIN  STEAMED  PUDDING. 

MRS.  DE.  COLTON. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  raisins, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  and  spice  to  taste. 

FIG  PUDDING. 

MRS.  GEO.  BAKER. 

A  half  pound  of  figs,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  three 
eggs,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  yeast  pow- 
der, a  half  cup  of  milk;  mix  to  a  stiff  batter  with  flour.  Boil  two 
or  three  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 


128  PUDDINGS. 

GERMAN  PUDDING. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

One  pint  of  new  milk,  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  three  table- 
spoons of  sugar.  Mix  all  together;  take  one  loaf  of  baker's  bread, 
cut  in  slices,  dip  the  slices  into  the  mixture  and  fry  brown  on 
griddles,  well  greased  with  lard  and  butter  mixed.  Serve 
with  this  sauce:  Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter  and 
the  white  of  one  ^^^\  beat  all  together  till  very  light;  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla;  spread  thin  on  each  slice  of  toast,  and  set  into 
the  oven  for  five  minutes.    Serve  with  the  remainder  of  the  sauce. 

CITRON  PUDDING. 

MRS.    J.  P.   FOSTER. 

Yolks  of  sixteen  fresh  eggs,  beaten  till  very  light  and  thick, 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  stirred  and  beaten  in  and  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  with  salt  washed  out.  Line  two 
deep  pie  plates  with  puff  paste,  cover  the  bottom  with  a  layer  of 
preserved  citron,  sliced  thin;  then  fill  with  the  mixture  and  bake 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  keeping  the  temperature  about  the  same; 
when  baked,  sift  over  them  pulverized  sugar.  Good  either  hot  or 
cold.  If  a  third  of  the  quantity  is  desired,  take  six  Q^'g'^  this  will 
make  enough  for  a  small  family,  as  it  is  very  rich. 

WEDDING  CAKE  PUDDING. 

SrPvS.   F.  TALCOTT,  ROCKFOED,  ILL. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  milk,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  four 
cups  of  flour,  one  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  two  tea- 
spoons of  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  allspice,  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda 
and  a  half  teaspoon  of  rose-water.  Steam  three  hours.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

BAKED  PUDDING. 

MRS.  T.  A.  PARKER,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Take  paste  (not  too  rich),  putting  yeast  powder  into  the  flour; 
roll  the  thickness  of  quarter  of  an  inch;  take  peaches,  apples, 
blackberries,  or  any  kind  of  fruit,  sweeten,  if  you  prefer,  spread 
them  upon  the  crust;  roll  it  up;  place  in  a  pan  and   make  a  rich 


PUDDINGS.  129 

sauce  of  butter,  sugar,  flour  and  water,  and  essence  of  vanilla 
or  lemon;  pour  this  over  the  pudding  and  bake  it  till  done.  If 
the  sauce  bakes  away,  make  more  upon  the  top  of  the  stove  and 
serve  hot. 

CHERRY   PUDDING. 

MKS.  E.   P.  CHASE. 

Take  one  pint  of  pounded  crackers,  pour  hot  water  enough  over 
to  make  them  soft,  and  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  four  eggs, 
salt,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  and  one  quart 
of  stoned  cherries.     Bake  in  «i  hot  oven.      Serve  with  sauce. 

BERRY  PUDDING. 

MRS.   J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Fill  a  dish  half  full  of  berries,  cover  with  a  paste  made  of  three 
cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  ^^'g^  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda  and  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar. 

BERRY  PUDDING. 

MRS.  F.  TALCOTT,  ROCKFORD,  ILL. 

One  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  four  cups  of  flour,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  berries  and  three 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.     Put  into  a  tin  and  steam  one  hour. 

QUICK  PUDDING. 

MRS.   J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Three  eggs,  three  cups  of  milk  and  three  cups  of  flour.  Bake 
in  patty-tins  or  cups  and  serve  with  hot  sauce.  A  little  preserve 
or  jam  in  the  bottom  of  the  cup,  is  an  improvement. 

STATES  SHIP  PUDDING. 

MRS.  M.  M.  SWEENEY,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  suet,  one  cup  of  water,  three 
cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  teaspoon 
of  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  and 
nutmeg.  Scald  the  cloth  and  flour  it;  leave  a  little  room  to  swell; 
boil  or  steam  it  three  hours.  Serve  with  sauce. 
9 


130  PUDDINGS. 

SUNDERLAND  PUDDING. 

MRS.  R.  T.  WELLSLAGER. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  boiled  rice,  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  a  third  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 
Bake  it,  and  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  a 
half  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  This 
makes  an  icing  to  spread  over  the  pudding  after  it  is  baked;  then 
brown  it.     Eat  cold. 

SUNDERLAND  PUDDING. 

JNO.  W.  CHASE. 

One  pint  of  milk,  six  eggs,  six  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  salt. 
Serve  with  the  following  sauce:  One  ^^^.,  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
a  half  cup  of  butter.  Beat  all  together  fifteen  minutes  and  grate 
nutmeg  over  the  top. 

MACCARONI  PUDDING. 

MRS.  P.  H.  CARPENTER. 

Soak  two  ounces  of  maccaroni  in  cold  water  eighteen  minutes, 
then  strain  it  and  put  into  one  i3int  of  boiling  milk,  with  one 
ounce  of  butter;  when  the  maccaroni  is  tender,  add  two  eggs, 
sugar  and  flavor.      Steam  one  hour  in  a  buttered  tin  or  stewpan. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

MBS.  H.   SCRIBNER. 

Stew  tart  apples  as  for  sauce;  if  the  apples  are  not  sour  enough 

add  a  little  citric  acid;  sweeten  to  taste.     Cut  some  light  bread 

into  thin  slices  and  spread  with  butter;  cover  the  bottom  of  a 

pudding-dish  with  the  apple  sauce,  over  that  place  a  layer  of  the 

bread  and  butter,  then  another  layer  of  apple  sauce,  and  so  on  till 

he  pudding  is  of  the  desired  thickness,  having  the  apple  sauce 

on  top.     Nutmeg  or  other  spice  may  be  added  to  each  layer  if 

desired. 

BOILED  BREAD   PUDDING. 

MRS.   J.  B.  STEWART. 

Moisten  three  cups  of  grated  bread  with  milk  and  soak  till  soft; 
add  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  fruit,  and  spices.  Boil  two  or 
three  hours.     Eat  hot  with  sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  131 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

CORA  CHASE,  ROSEMOND,  ILL. 

Take  one  pint  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  pour  over  them  one  quart 
of  sweet  milk,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a 
half  teacup  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  and  one  cup  of  raisins.  Flavor 
with  lemon.  Bake  and,  when  cool,  spread  over  a  layer  of  jelly 
or  preserve.  Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  very  light;  add  five 
teaspoons  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  put  it  upon  the  pudding. 
Brown  slightly.    Serve  with  cream  sweetened  and  flavored. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  BARKER,  NEW  YORK  CITY. 

Take  one  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  cut  into  thin  slices;  line  the 
dish  with  this;  fill  with  apples,  cut  in  quarters,  if  not  too  large; 
cover  with  bread,  dipped  in  milk,  and  place  a  dish  over  all  to 
keep  it  down;  bake.  Eat  with  sauce. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 

MRS.  W.  B.  MACK,  CEDAR  RAPII>S. 

Into  one  quart  of  milk  put  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  butter 
the  size  of  an  ^^^t  and  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Sweeten  and  flavor  as  for  custard,  and  mix  well  together.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  froth  and  add  a  teacup  of  powdered  sugar. 
Spread  a  layer  of  jelly  or  preserve  over  the  pudding,  and  then 
this  frosting.      Set  into  the  oven  and  let  it  brown. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 

MRS.   C.  P.  HOLMES  AND  MRS.  J.  G.  SPRAGUE. 

One  pint  of  fine  bre'ad  crumbs,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^^^.  Bake  until  done,  but  not  watery, 
and  spread  with  a  layer  of  jelly.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a  stiff"  froth  and  beat  in  one  teacup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  then  spread  upon  the  top  and  brown.  Good  with  or  with- 
out sauce.     Very  good  to  be  eaten  cold. 


133  PUDDINGS. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 

F.  E.  HASKELL. 

A  half  pint  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  a  little  milk,  yolks  of 
six  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  quart  of  new  milk,  a  little 
lemon  and  sugar  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Beat  the 
whites  with  a  cup  of  white  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  extract. 
Spread  over  the  pudding,  when  done,  and  bake  a  light  brown.    To 

be  eaten  cold. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 

MRS.  M.  R.  KELLOGG. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
lemon,  one  cup  of  raisins  and  one  quart  of  milk.  Beat  the  whites 
of  two  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  .sugar  and  spread  over  the 
top,  then  bake  a  light  brown. 

BOILED  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

One  cup   of  molasses,  one   cup    of  water,  three    cups  of  flour, 

three  tablespoons  of  melted  bvitter,  one  small  tablespoon  of  soda, 

spice  to  taste  and  use   raisins  and  currants,  if  desired.     Boil  in 

pudding  molds,  from  two  and   a   half  to  three  hours.     Eat  with 

sauce. 

BAKED  BATTER  PUDDING. 

MRS.  C.  H.  SWEEN^EY. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  five  tablespoons  of  flour,  three  table- 
spoons of  butter,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  three  eggs. 
Scald  the  milk  and  stir  in  the  flour;  after  it  i.s  cool,  add  the  other 
ingredients,  with  spice  to  suit  the  taste.  Bake  about  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour. 

BAKED  BATTER  PUDDING. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Beat  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately,  till  very  light;  sift 
into  a  pan  oevon^  large  spoons  of  flour,  pour  over  this  enough 
milk  to  make  a  smooth  batter,  then  stir  in  the  yolks,  a  little  salt, 
and  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  which  in  all  must  be  a  quart;  then 
add  the  whites.  Butter  a  baking-dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
three  quarters  of  an  hour.     Serve  with  sauce  or  cream. 


PUDDINGS.  133 

BOILED  BATTER  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

One  quart  of  milk,  twelve  tablespoons  of  flour,  nine  eggs,  and 
a  little  salt.  Beat  the  yolks,  add  the  flour,  stir  in  the  milk 
slowly,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  the  last  thing; 
pour  into  a  floured  bag,  put  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  two 
hours.  Allow  room  in  the  bag  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

THANKSGIVING  PUDDING. 

MRS.  THEO.  CARPENTER. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  two  cups 
of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  fotir  eggs,  two  pounds  of  raisins, 
stoned  and  chopped,  one  pound  of  currants,  a  fourth  of  a  pound 
of  citron,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  pound  cake. 
Steam  six  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

PERSIAN  PUDDING. 

MRS.  THEO.  CARPENTER. 

To  the  pulp  of  six  baked  apples,  add  one  ounce  of  rice,  previ- 
ously boiled  in  milk  and  beaten  smooth,  one  ounce  of  sugar, 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  one  tablespoon  of  the  juice.  Mix 
well  together;  then  take  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  put  them  into  the  other  ingredients,  boil  up  quickly, 
and  pour  into  a  warm  mold.  Place  in  a  quick  oven  and,  when 
perfectly  set,  turn  it  out  and  pour  a  custard  over  it,  made  from 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 

STEAMED  PUDDING. 

MRS.  HUDSON,  NEW  BEDFORD,  CONN. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  rubbed  into  three  cups  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  quart  of  flour,  and  one  and  a  half 
teaspoons  of  soda  dissolved  in  another  cup  of  milk.  Steam  two 
hours,  then  set  into  the  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Make  a 
stiff  frosting,  flavored  with  lemon,  and  turn  it  over  the  pudding, 
just  before  sending  it  to  the  table.  One  cup  of  chopped  raisins 
is  an  improvement  to  the  pudding. 


134  PUDDINGS. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J,   A,  OAELISLE,  ELGIN,  ILL. 

Two  eggs,  two  cups  of  milk,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  heaping 
teaspoons  of  soda  in  the  milk,  four  even  teaspoons  of  cream  tar- 
tar in  one  quart  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt.  Bake,  as  cake,  three 
quarters  of  an  hour;  when  done,  and  cool  enough  to  cut  without 
making  heavy,  split  into  three  parts,  spread  with  any  kind  of 
tart  sauce  or  berries,  and  replace  the  layers. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

MES.  J.  B.  STEWART  AND  MRS.  J.  P.  POSTER. 

Three  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  rub- 
bed to  a  cream,  one  egg,  one  pint  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  cream 
tartar,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  milk,  and 
nutmeg.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  cup  of  melted 
butter,  one  ^^^^i  two  small  spoons  of  cream  tartar,  one  small 
spoon  of  soda,  and  one  pint  of  sifted  flour.  Bake  three  quarters 
of  an  hour.     Eat  with  sauce.      Excellent. 

FLORENTINE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  ROUNDS. 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk;  and  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  of  corn  starch  and  three  tablespoons  of  sugar.  When 
thoroughly  cooked,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  flavor  with  lemon. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Spread  this  over  the  custard,  and  brown 
slightly. 

SALLY  LUNN  PUDDING. 

MRS.  KETOUUM,  CHICAGO. 

Sift  together  one  quart  of  flour  and  three  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  rub  into  the  flour  a  piece  of  cold  butter  the  size  of  an 
^^'g^i  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  teacups  of  sweet  milk,  two 
eggs,  and  salt.     Serve  with  the  following  sauce:     Into  one  and  a 


PUDDINGS.  135 

half  cups  of  hot  \yater,  stir  a  thin  paste,  made  with  two  full 
tablespoons  of  flour,  and  boil  five  minutes;  then  add  two  cups  of 
brown  sugar  and  let  it  boil;  stir  in  two  spoons  of  butter  and  a 
glass  of  vinegar,  with  a  good  sprinkling  of  nutmeg,  and  take  it  up 
at  once. 

AN  EXCELLENT  INDIAN  PUDDING,  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

MKS,  KETCHUM,  CHICAGO. 

Take  seven  heaping  tablespoons  of  Indian  meal,  a  half  teaspoon 
of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  butter  or  sweet  lard,  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  molasses,  and  one  teaspoon  of  ginger.  Pour  into  these  one 
quart  of  milk,  boiling  hot;  mix  well,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  dish. 
Just  as  you  set  it  into  the  oven,  stir  in  a  teacup  of  cold  water, 
which  will  produce  the  same  effect  as  eggs.  Bake  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour  in  a  dish  that  will  not  spread  it  out  thin.  Stir  a 
few  times  as  it  begins  cooking,  to  prevent  the  meal  from  settling. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

MES.   C.  W.  SIBLEY. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk;  thicken  it  with  meal  and  cook  like 
mush;  thin  it  with  milk,  sweeten  to  the  taste,  add  three  eggs, 
and  fruit,  if  desired.     Bake  till  done  and  serve  with  sauce. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

PHCEBE  A.  CARPENTER. 

One  scant  pint  of  corn  meal,  two  handfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^^^^  one  cup  of  molasses^  two  table- 
spoons of  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of  milk,  not  quite  a  pint  of 
cold  water,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  raisins,  and  a  little  salt.  Bake 
three  hours.     Delicious. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

Thicken  one  quart  of  hot  milk  to  stiffness  with  meal,  take  off 
and  stir  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  two  eggs,  then  add  an- 
other quart  of  cold  milk,  then  four  well-beaten  eggs,  molasses, 
sugar,  spice,  and  raisins,  if  you  like.     Bake  three  hours. 


136  PUDDINGS. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

ANNA  SCKIPPS,  EUSUVILLE,  ILL. 

Over  two  cups  of  white  corn  meal,  sifted,  pour  slowly,  one  quart 
of  boiling  milk;  when  cool,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and,  the  last  thing,  the  beaten 
whites  of  six  eggs.  Stir  well  together  and  bake  an  hour  and  a 
half.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce:  Sugar  and  butter,  beaten 
to  a  cream,  and  flavored  with  lemon. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

MES    MILES. 

One  cup  of  sifted  meal,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  quarts  of  milk, 

two  tablespoons  of  butter  or  chopped  suet,   one  cup  of  raisins, 

one  teaspoon  of  mixed  spices,  one  egg  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Scald  the  milk  and  stir  in  the  meal,  cook  five  minutes,  then  take 

off  the  stove  and  add  the  other  ingredients.    If  this  seems  too  thin, 

add  a  little  more  meal  the  next  time,  according  to  your  judgment. 

Very  good. 

RHYME  PUDDING. 

MES.  G.  M.  HIPPEE. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour, 

Salt,  four  eggs,  and  bake  one  hour. 

Serve  with  sauce. 

BOILED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

MES.  E.  P.   CHASE. 

Use  tart,  mellow  apples,  pared,  remove  the  core  and  fill  the 
place  with  sugar;  then  take  one  quart  of  flour,  three  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  and  one  tablespoon  (small)  of  shortening.  Mix 
soft  with  sweet  milk  or  water,  and  roll  it  out;  cut  into  squares  of 
sufficient  size  to  roll  the  apples  in,  put  each  dumpling  into  a  piece 
of  old  white  muslin  and  drop  them  into  boiling  water  or  set  them 
on  a  plate  and  place  in  a  steamer. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

MES.  E.  P.  C. 

Make  a  paste  not  quite  so  rich  as  pie  paste;  pare  and  core  fine, 
ripe  cooking  apples;  roll  out  the  paste,  fill  the  apple,  where  the 


PUDDINGS.  137 

core  was  taken  out,  with  sugar,  and  enclose  it  as  in  any  other 
dumpling.  When  the  desired  number  are  made,  place  them  in 
the  baking  pan,  pour  over  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  set  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  and  cook  till  done.  Serve  with  hard  sauce 
or  sugar  and  cream. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  C.  H.  GETCHELL. 

One  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  tablespoon  of  lard,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda,  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Pare  and  cut  the  applet 
fine,  into  a  buttered  dish;  pour  on  the  batter  and  bake  until  well 
done.      Serve  with  cream  and  sugar  or  sauce. 

DELICIOUS  APPLE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  JENNIE  CARPENTER. 

Pare  and  chop  a  half  dozen  apples;  grease  a  dish,  cover  the 
bottom  half  an  inch  deep  with  bread  crumbs,  add  a  lump  of  but- 
ter, then  a  layer  of  apples  and  sugar  with  a  little  nutmeg.  Repeat 
this  until  the  dish  is  full;  then  pour  over  the  whole  one  teacup 
of  cold  water.     Bake  thirty  minutes.     No  sauce  is  needed. 

MINUTE  PUDDING. 

E.  A.  C. 

Put  some  milk  over  the  fire,  let  it  boil,  add  a  little  salt, and  stir 
in  sifted  flour  (like  meal  in  mush),  until  thick  enough.  Let  it  boil 
two  or  three  minutes,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  take  from  the  fire, 
and  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Dip  a  bowl  into  cold  water  and 
pour  the  pudding  in  when  it  is  a  little  cool.  Serve  with  pulver- 
ized sugar  and  rich  cream. 

OXFORD  PUDDING, 

MRS.  PHILIP  SKINNER. 

One-half  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one  pint  of  milk,  six  eggs,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  a  half  pint  of  cream,  a  half  pound  of  currants,  and 
sugar  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  light,  add 
them  to  the  bread,  milk  and  sugar,  then  the  cream  and  fruit;  lastly 
whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in  gradually.  Serve  with 
sauce. 


138  PUDDINGS. 

JELLY  PUDDING. 

MES.  PHILIP  SKINNER. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  six  eggs,  a  half  cup  of 
milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  and  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar. 
Bake  in  a  long  tin;  when  done,  spread  with  jelly  and  roll  up. 
Serve  with  boiled  sauce. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Pare  and  quarter,  or  slice,  enough  tart  apples  to  fill  two-thirds 
of  a  stew-pan.  ]\lake  a  crust  as  for  baking  powder  biscuit  (only 
a  little  richer);  roll  it  half  an  inch  thick  and  spread  over  the  ap- 
ples, which  should  have  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning;  then 
put  a  tin  basin  over  the  top  to  keep  in  the  steam  and  allow  the 
dough  to  rise.     When  done,  turn  out  upon  a  platter  and  eat  with 

sauce. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

MRS.   JENNIE  CARPENTER. 

Pare  and  core  six  tart  apples;  cook  them  in  a  half  teacup  of 
water  till  they  begin  to  soften;  place  them  in  a  pudding  dish, 
putting  sugar  in  the  apples  where  the  cores  were  taken  out. 
Beat  eight  eggs  with  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  add  three  pints 
of  milk,  pour  over  the  apples  and  bake  a  half  hour. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  CARPENTER. 

Rub  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  one  pound  of  flour, 
and  add  sufficient  water  to  make  a  paste.  Sprinkle  the  pudding 
bag  with  flour,  roll  out  the  paste  and  lay  inside  of  the  bag.  Fill 
the  crust  with  apples,  pared  and  cored,  draw  the  crust  together, 
cut  ofi"  any  extra  crust  about  the  folds,  tie  the  bag  tight  and  put 
into  boiling  water.     Boil  two  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

EVE'S  PUDDING. 

MRS.   JENNIE  CARPENTER. 

Six  apples  chopped  fine,  six  ounces  of  suet,  six  eggs,  six  ounces 
of  crackers,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  six  ounces  of  currants,  a  little 
salt  and  nutmeg.     Boil  three  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  139 

AMHERST  PUDDING. 

MRS.  HUDSON. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  with  soda  enough  to  ferment  it,  one  cup 
of  milk,  one  cup  of  suet,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  raisins, 
a  little  salt,  cinnamon  and  cloves.     Boil  from  two  to  three  hours. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHAED. 

Boil  a  half  pint  of  rice,  drain  off  the  water,  let  the  rice  dry  and 
cool;  then  mix  with  it  two  ounces  of  butter,  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
a  quart  of  rich  milk,  and  one  tablespoon  of  nutmeg  and  cinna- 
mon. Beat  four  or  five  eggs  very  light  and  add  to  the  mixture. 
Bake  one  hour  in  a  deep  dish.     Eat  when  cold. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

CPajlI^  ^^^'  ^'  ^'  HOLMES. 

XiBCO  very  small  cupf  of  rice,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  su- 
gar, one  cup  of  raisins,  one  quart  of  new  milk  and  a  little  nutmeg; 
put  all  together,  bake  very  slowly  three  hours  and  stir  often. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  STRICKLAND. 

Wash  one  cup  of  rice,  put  it  into  cold  water;  when  scarcely 
half  done,  stir  in  three  pints  of  milk,  two  eggs,  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut,  and  a  tea-cup  of  raisins;  flavor  with  lemon.  Pour  into 
pudding  dish  and  bake  forty-five  minutes,  or  till  it  will  not  leave 
a  knife  blade  milky. 

RICE  MORINGO  PUDDING. 

MRS.   S.  P.  WISNER,  CEDAR  RAPIDS. 

One  tea-cup  of  rice,  boiled  in  one -fett^-^ofmilk,  three  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  the  peel  of  one  lemon  grated,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  a 
small  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  salt.  Pour  the  foregoing  into 
a  dish  and  bake.  Take  the  white  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  with  nine  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  juice  of  a  lemon;  spread 
this  over  the  rice,  and  set  into  the  oven  long  enough  to  brown. 


140  PUDDINGS. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

MES.  JAMES  m'cLURE,  BEAEDSTOWN,  ILL. 

'  ■  ;r  '  * 

One  quart  of  milk;  one  tedcup  of  rice,  a  little  salt,  raisins  and 
flavor.  Stir  occasionally  (to  keep  the  rice  from  settling)  till  you 
wish  a  crust  to  form. 

RICE  CUPS. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Put  one  pint  of  rice,  swelled  till  quite  dry,  into  three  pints  of  milk, 
and  boil  till  quite  soft;  just  as  it  boils  add  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut  and  two  tablespoons  of  rose  or  peach  water. 
Wet  the  cups  and  fill  them.  When  cold,  turn  out  and  serve  with 
boiled  custard  or  sugar  and  cream. 

POOR  MAN'S  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  cup  of  melt- 
ed butter,  one  pound  of  chopped  raisins,  one  teaspoon  of  saleratus, 
a  little  salt  arid  flour  enough  to  make  it  of  the  consistency  of 
pound  cake.  Boil  four  hours,  or  steam  it.  Serve  with  the  follow- 
ing sauce:  A  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  half  tea  cup  of  butter, 
one  teacup  of  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 

PUFFS. 

MRS.  CLEGDORN. 

One  quart  of  milk,  eight  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  four  eggs; 
mix  yolks,  flour  and  milk  together,  add  a  little  salt  and  stir  in  the 
whites,  beaten  to  a  stiif  froth,  the  last  thing.  Bake  in  teacups, 
in  a  quick  oven,  and  serve  with  sauce,  as  follows:  One  cup  of 
sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  one  teaspoon 
of  corn  starch.  Beat  to  a  cream;  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling 
water,  the  beaten  white  of  the  egg  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  one  lemon. 

PUFFS. 

MRS.  M.  ANDREWS. 

Three  cups  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  and  three  eggs.  Bake 
in  cups,  in  a  hot  oven.     Serve  with  sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  141 

PUFFS. 

MRS.   C.  W.  NELSON". 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk.     Bake  in  cups  in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  with  sauce. 

SAGO  PUDDING. 

MRS.  C.  P.  HOLMES. 

Soak  one  cup  of  sago,'  in  warm  water,  two  or  three  hours;  then 
pare  and  core  eight  or  ten  tart  apples,  of  medium  size;  lay  them 
in  a  pudding-dish  and  pour  the  sago  over  them.  Steam  till  the 
apples  are  tender  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

SAGO  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Soak  six  tablespoons  of  sago  two  hours  in  cold  water,  then  boil 
soft  in  one  quart  of  milk  and  add  four  spoons  of  butter,  six  eggs, 
six  spoons  of  sugar,  currants  and  raisins.  Bake,  in  a  buttered 
dish,  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

APPLE  SAGO  PUDDING. 

MRS,  HUDSON,  NEW  BEDJFORD,  CONN. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  put  them  in  a  dish  with  sugar  and 
strew  over  them  the  rind  of  one  lemon.  Wash  six  tablespoons  of 
sago  in  cold  water,  drain  it  dry,  then  pour  on  one  quart  of  boiling 
water,  adding  a  piece  of  butter;  place  the  sago  on  the  back  part 
of  the  stove,  where  it  will  keep  a  little  warm;  let  it  stand  one 
hour,  then  pour  it  over  the  apples  and  bake  till  the  apples  are 
done.     Serve  with  sauce,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

BIRDS'  NEST  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Pare  and  core  eight  or  ten  large  apples,  fill  the  middle  with 
sugar,  and  make  a  batter  of  one  quart  of  milk,  six  eggs,  five 
spoons  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt.  Pour  it  over  the  apples  and 
bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour.     Eat  with  sauce. 


143  PUDDINGS. 

POP-OVER  PUDDING. 

S.  D.  WARING.* 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  and  five  eggs.  Bake  in 
oups.     To  be  eaten  with  sauce. 

GREEN  CORN  PUDDING. 

MRS.  H.  SPRAGUE,  OSHKOSH,  WIS. 

Three  cups  of  grated  corn,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
one  quart  of  milk,  salt  and  butter.     Bake  two  hours. 

BAKED  CORN  PUDDING. 

MRS.  ,T.  CARPENTER. 

One  dozen  ears  of  young  corn  grated,  six  eggs  and  one  quart 
of  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  then  add  the  milk;  season  the 
corn  slightly  with  salt;  mix  all  together,  with  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter; butter  the  pudding- dish,  and  pour  in  the  batter.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  and  eat  hot  with  butter  and  sugar. 

POTATO  PUDDING. 

MRS.    .lOSEPH    KUHN. 

Grate  a  large  soup-plate  of  cold,  boiled  potatoes;  beat  one  cup 
of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  together,  and  mix  with  the 
potatoes;  beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  and  stir  in  lightly;  flavor  to 
the  taste.     Bake  one  hour  or  boil  two  hours. 

BOILED  POTATO  PUDDING.  ' 

MRS.  .1.  CARPENTER, 

To  eight  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed,  add,  while  warm,  a 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  when  cool,  four  eggs,  one  gill  of 
milk,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stifi"  batter  and  a  little  salt.  This 
will  make  a  large  pudding.  Flour  the  inside  of  the  pudding-bag; 
put  in  the  pudding,  which  must  be  as  stiff"  as  soft  dough;  leave 
two  or  three  inches  at  the  toj)  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Boil  two 
hours;  dip  the  bag  into  cold  water;  turn  out  and  serve  with 
sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  143 

BAKED  POTATO  PUDDING. 

Two  pounds  of  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed,  one  pound  of 
sugar  and  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter  beaten  together, 
seven  eggs,  juice  of  one  orange  and  the  rind,  grated,  and  a  half 
pound  of  currants.      Bake  in  a  crust. 

UNION  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  milk,  three  tablespoons  of  flour, 
one  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  and  fruit  if  you 
wish.     Bake  like  tarts,  without  an  upper  crust. 

CUSTARD  TAPIOCA. 

MRS.  J.   PARMELEE. 

Soak  six  tablespoons  of  tapioca  in  one  quart  of  milk  three 
hours;  add  a  little  butter  and  four  eggs,  well  beaten;  bake  in  a 
buttered  dish  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.     Serve  with  sauce. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

MRS.  C.  H.  GETCHELL. 

Boil  one  cup  of  tapioca,  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water,  with 
one  cup  of  jelly  or  preserve,  until  thoroughly  mixed  together. 
Cool  in  molds  and  serve  with  cream. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

MISS   FANNIE  PAGE,  IOWA  CITY. 

Soak  one  cup  of  tapioca  in  one  cup  of  cold  water,  over  night; 
in  the  morning,  add  three  cups  of  cold  water;  set  it  on  the  stove 
and  soak  slowly  till  transparent;  slice  very  thin  one-half  of  a  large 
lemon;  boil  separately  in  a  little  water  till  tender;  add  this  to 
the  tapioca,  with  sugar  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste.  Beat  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  a  half  pound  of  powdered 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  half  lemon.  Spread  this  over  the  top  of 
the  pudding;  set  it  into  the  oven  to  brown  and  serve  cold  with 
cream.     Fine  for  Sunday  dinner. 


144  PUDDINGS. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

MRS.  W.  H.  SIBLEY. 

Soak  a  teacup  of  tapioca  in  one  and  a  half  pints  of  water  over 
night;  pare  six  tart  apples,  take  out  the  cores  and  fill  the  holes 
with  sugar;  flavor  with  nutmeg  and  pour  in  one  teacup  of  water; 
bake  till  soft,  then  pour  the  tapioca  over  them  and  bake  all  one 
hour.     Eat  with  hard  sauce. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

MRS.    J.   CARPENTER. 

One  cup  of  tapioca,  soaked  in  two  quarts  of  water  over  night, 
juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  raisins  and  one  quart  of 
apples.  Cook  the  apples  till  tender,  mash  them  smooth;  put  the 
raisins  in  when  nearly  done.     Eat  cold  with  sweetened  cream. 

PARADISE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Three  eggs,  three  apples,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs, 
three  ounces  of  sugar,  three  ounces  of  currants,  salt,  and  the  juice 
and  rind  of  a  half  lemon.  Pare  the  apples,  core  and  chop  them; 
beat  the  eggs,  then  beat  them  thoroughly  with  the  apples.  Mix 
all  together;  pour  the  pudding  into  a  buttered  mold;  tie  down 
with  a  cloth  and  boil  one  and  a  half  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  n.  SPRAGUE,  OSHKOSH,  WIS. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk;  add,  while  boiling,  two  ounces  of  grated 
chocolate,  stirring  a  few  minutes;  cool,  and  put  in  six  eggs,  except 
three  whites.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake 
like  a  custard.     Cool  and  frost. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

MRS.   H.  SPRAGUE,  OSHKOSH,  WIS. 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  eight  butter  crackers  rolled  fine, 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  cocoanut.     Bake  till  done. 


PUDDINGS.  145 

COCOANUT  PUDDING, 

MRS.   T.  W.  CARPENTER. 

One  cocoanut,  three  pints  of  milk,  sugar  to  the  taste,  two  soda 
crackers,  four  eggs  and  a  little  salt.  Roll  the  crackers  and  mix 
them  with  the  grated  cocoanut;  boil  the  milk  and  pour  over  the 
cocoanut  and  crackers. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

MRS.  IICrDSO>f,  NEW  BEDFORD,  CONN. 

Grate  half  a  cocoanut,  stir  it  into  a  good  custard  and  bake  in  a 
buttered  pan.  Make  the  custard  of  four  eggs  to  one  quart  of 
milk;  sweeten  to  the  taste.  Serve  with  sauce.  This  may  be 
baked  with  an  under  crust  and  requires  from  thirty  to  forty  min- 
utes in  a  quick  oven. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

MRS.  F.  A.  TALCOTT,  ROCKPORD,  ILL. 

Two  large  lemons,  one  pound  of  sugar,  four  ounces  of  butter, 
one  pint  of  milk  and  eight  eggs.  Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the 
juice  of  the  lemons;  stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add 
the  yolks  well  beaten,  part  of  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  the  milk  and,  at  last,  the  lemons.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
three-fourths  of  an  hour;  then  frost  with  the  remaining  whites, 
into  which  stir  a  little  sugar;  brown  the  whole.  Serve  cold, 
without  sauce. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

MRS.   C.    H.   SWEENEY. 

Five  eggs,  a  half  pound  of  white  sugar,  four  ounces  of  butter, 
two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  new  milk  and  the  grated  rind  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Put  paste  in  a  deep  pie-tin  and  bake  half  an 
hour. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

MRS.  J.   CARPENTER. 

A  half  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of 
stale  sponge  cake  rubbed  fine,  five  eggs,  and  grated  rind  and  the 
juice  of  one  lemon.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  then 
add  the  cake,  eggs,  and  at  last  the  lemon.  Line  your  dish  with  a 
rich  paste  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done  and  cool,  sift 
sugar  over  it. 

lO 


146  PUDDINGS. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

MRS.  F.  Y.   STOWE. 

Pare  and  cut  in  small  pieces  six  oranges;  sprinkle  over  them 
from  a  half  to  a  whole  cup  of  sugar.  Take  a  pint  of  milk  and 
let  it  come  to  a  boil;  take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  tablespoons 
of  corn  starch  and  a  half  teacup  of  sugar;  mix  together  and  pour 
into  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  until  it  is  very  smooth  and  well 
cooked.  When  cool  pour  it  over  the  oranges,  and  upon  this  put 
the  beaten  whites  with  enough  sugar  to  make  a  thick  frosting. 
Put  on  ice  until  ready  to  be  served. 

FRUIT  PUDDING,  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Take  two  pounds  of  sifted  bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoons  of 
flour,  two  teaspoons  of  ground  allspice,  two  of  cloves,  four  of  cin- 
namon and  one  pound  of  hrown  sugar;  chop  one  pound  of  suet 
very  fine  and  mix  all  thoroughly;  add  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 
nice  seeded  raisins,  also  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  well  washed 
currants;  "in'oisten  the  whole  with  a  little  milk — about  a  teacupful 
— and  mix  well.  If  desired  to  have  it  all  in  one  pudding,  butter 
a  three  quart  tin  pail  and  press  the  mixture  in  tightly,  or  it  will 
not  turn  out  again  in  good  shape;  then  spread  some  flour  over 
the  top,  lay  on  a  wet  cloth  and  put  on  a  tin  cover;  place  the  pail 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  boil  rapidly  for  four  hours, 
then  take  it  up  but  do  not  turn  it  out;  the  next  day,  or  when 
wanted,  put  the  pail  in  a  moderately  warm  oven  for  two  hours, 
then  turn  on  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  This  can  be 
divided  and  make  two  puddings.  Sauce:  One-half  pound  of  but- 
ter, one  large  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  little  salt;  boil  in  a  pint 
of  water;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  the  taste. 

WASHINGTON  PUDDING.  • 

MRS.  C.    H.  SWEENEY. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  whites  of  four  eggs,  yolks  of 
two,  and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Bake  this  in  a  shallow 
pan;  when  done  and  very  hot,  split  the  cake,  spread  with  a  hard 
sauce,  made  of  butter  and  sugar,  flavored  with  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  one  lemon;  spread  the  top  also;  put  upon  a  platter, 
set  into  the  oven   for  five  minutes  and  serve. 


PUDDINGS.  147 

CRACKER  PUDDING. 

MRS.  WM.  A.   ROLLINS. 

Six  crackers,  soaked  in  one  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  suet,  one 
cup  raisins,  one  cup  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs;  salt,  and 
flavor  with  cinnamon;  bake  an  hour  and  a  half  ;  beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  with  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  set  into  the 
oven  to  brown.  Make  the  sauce  as  follows:  Two  cups  sugar, 
melted  to  a  syrup,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  the  white  of  an  ^^^.^ 
beartento  a  froth. 

TELEGRAPH  PUDDING. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  large  spoon  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
of  sour  milk,  three  cups  of  flour  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  tin  twenty  minutes.      Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

HOME  PUDDING. 

J.  p.  F. 

Six  crackers  powdered  fine,  one  spoon  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  six  eggs,  raisins,  currants,  and  mixed  spices  to  the 
taste.     Bake,  and  serve  with  sauce. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

MARY  E.  HARRIS. 

Dissolve  three  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  water;  ^ojiir 
pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  it;  stir  in  -the  whites  of 
three  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  steam  ten  minutes.  Serve  with 
sauce  made  as  follows:  Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  su- 
gar, one  cup  of  milk  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
Boil  and  flavor. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

MISS    MINNIE  SCRIBNER, 

To  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  put  one  pint  of  cold  water  (in  cold 
weather  two  pints);  let  it  stand  till  dissolved,  with  the  juice  and 
rind  of  three  lemons  (lemons  sliced) ;  add  one  quart  of  boiling  water; 
strain  through  a  jelly  bag  and  turn  into  a  mold.  When  cold, cover 
with  very  light  frosting.  Eaten  with  or  without  cream.  One 
lemon  and  citric  acid  can  be  used  instead  of  three  lemons. 


148  SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

MRS.  COSKERY  AND  MRS.   U.  SPRAGUE. 

Soak  a  half  box  of  gelatine  in  one  cup  of  cold  water  one  hour; 
squeeze  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  grate  the  rind;  pour  one  pint 
of  boiling  water  over  the  gelatine,  stir  it  up,  then  add  the  lemons 
and  two  cups  of  sugar;  stir  it  up  again  and  strain  it  through  a 
jelly  bag  or  sieve.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  Q^^r^  lightly;  when 
the  gelatine  is  cool,  stir  them  in  and  beat  till  thick,  perhaps  one 
hour.  For  sauce,  make  a  custard  of  yolks  of  five  eggs,  the  whites 
of  two,  one  quart  of  milk,  and  one  cup  of  sugar;  flavor  with  va- 
nilla. 


^^ude^  ioi  f^uddiqg^. 


HARD  SAUCE. 

^^g^lj^NE  cup  of  very  light  brown  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  butter, 
half  the  grated  rind  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Beat 
until  very  light.  Vanilla  may  be  substituted  for  the 
lemon. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

MRS.  J.   B.  LYMAN,  ROCKFORD,  ILL. 

Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  with  a  little  corn  starch.  Pour 
boiling  water  over  and  flavor. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PEITCHARD. 

Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar  beaten  to  a 
cream,  one  cup  of  boiling  water  and  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour, 
made  into  starch.  Let  it  boil  and,  just  before  serving,  pour  slowly 
into  the  butter  and  sugar,  stirring  continually,  until  it  is  of  the 
right  consistency.     Flavor  to  the  taste. 


SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS.  149 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

MRS,  G.  R.  OSGOOD. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour, 
wet  in  cold  water.  Add  boiling  water,  set  it  on  the  stove  and 
boil.     Flavor  to  the  taste. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

MRS.  COSKERY. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  e^^.,  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one 
cup  of  milk  scalded  and  turned  over.  Put  it  upon  the  stove  and 
scald  again.     Flavor  to  the  taste. 

FOAM  SAUCE. 

MRS.  J.  B.   STEWART. 

One  and  a  fourth  cups  of  sugar,  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter,  and 
the  yolk  of  one  Q^g-  Beat  well  together,  then  add  the  white  of  the 
Qg,g.,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Flavor  to  taste.  Put  in  one  cup  of 
boiling  water  the  last  thing. 

FOAM  SAUCE. 

MRS.  E.  T.  WELLSLAGER. 

A  half  cup  of  white  sugar,  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  one 
tablespoon  of  corn  starch;  mix  together  and  beat  to  a  cream;  set 
upon  the  stove,  and  add  boiling  water  until  it  is  of  the  right  con- 
sistency.    Flavor  with  lemon  or  anything  preferred. 

HOT  SAUCE. 

V 

MRS.   E.  S.  SPEED,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  tea-cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  one  even  tablespoon 
of  flour,  and  one  egg;  beat  till  very  light;  then  add  one  pint  of  boil- 
ing water  and  let  it  scald;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Grate 
nutmeg  over  the  top. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

MRS.  M.  D.  STRICKLAND,  MT.  CARROLL,  ILL. 

One  cup  of  sugar  and  a  half  cup  of  thick  sour  cream.  Beat 
ten  minutes  and  grate  nutmeg  over  it.   Good  for  Indian  puddings. 


150  SAUCES  FOE  PUDDINGS. 

EXCELLENT  SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  RICE. 

MRS.  G.  R.  OSGOOD. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  with  sufficient  sugar  to  make  them 
quite  sweet;  add  one  teacup  of  cream,  and  the  juice  and  peel  of 
two  lemons.     If  lemons  cannot  be  had  use  tartaric  acid. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter, 
one  egg,  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Stir  a  tea- 
spoon of  flour  into  one  cup  of  boiling  water;  mix  the  egg^  butter 
and  sugar  together  thoroughly;  add  them  to  the  above  and  put 
in  the  juice  and  rind  of  the  lemon  last. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Mix  together  some  melted  butter  and  water;  add  three  ounces 
of  sugar  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  half  lemon — the  other 
half,  free  from  skin,  sliced  thin  and  cut  into  quarters.  Let  it  boil 
up;  then  serve. 


C^KS^g  SjSfiD  idiKG^^. 


^[^^WLWAYS  have  good  flour,  and  sift  it.     Be  careful  to  have 


11 


!f  fresh  eggs,  and  beat  them  light.  Use  good  sugar  and 
^^  °^  sweet  butter,  as  poor  butter  will  give  the  cake  a  bad 
flavor.  Beat  cake  in  an  earthen  bowl,  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
or  paddle.  Have  the  oven  at  the  right  heat  when  it 
1  is  ready  to  put  in — too  cold  an  oven  will-  make  cake  heavy. 
Wash  currants  (after  picking  them  over)  in  a  sieve  set  in  a  large 
pan  of  water;  rub  them  well  with  the  hands,  changing  the  water 
two  or  three  times;  drain  dry,  then  pour  them  on  a  coarse  towel, 
and  rub  well;  put  back  into  a  sieve  and  set  out  to  dry.  A  quan- 
tity of  currants  can  be  prepared  at  once,  and  used  whenever  you 
wish.  Raisins  should  be  stoned  before  using.  Citron  should  be 
sliced  very  thin  for  cake,  and  put  in  alternate  layers  with  the 
dough. 

For  fried  cakes,  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  milk,  to  prevent  the 
cakes  from  absorbing  the  fat.  In  using  baking  powder,  sift  it  in 
a  half-cup  of  flour;  mix  well  and  sprinkle  in  the  last  thing. 

ICING. 

MBS.  G.  K.  OSGOOD. 

White  of  one  egg,  nine  teaspoons  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoon 
of  corn  starch.     Beat  till  stiff. 

BOILED  ICINGS. 

MKS.  E.  S.  SPEED,  RCSHVILLE,  ILL. 

To  one  egg  well  beaten,  take  one  tumbler  of  sugar  in  lumps^ 
and  two  tablespoons  of  water.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together 
till  the  water  boils  out.  Beat  this  syrup  into  the  white  of  the 
egg.     Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon, 

151 


152 


LOAF  CAKES. 


FROSTING. 

MKS.  PARKS,  GRAND  HAVEN. 

I  have  found  an  improvement  on  the  old  method,  which  takes 
much  less  sugar  and  labor.  The  white  of  one  egg  is  sufficient  for 
a  cake.  Break  it  into  a  bowl;  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and 
beat  till  very  stiff,  then  flavor;  stir  in  a  little  corn  starch  and 
sugar  until  it  is  just  firm  enough  to  hold  its  own  and  spread  over 
Ihe  cake  quickly,  finishing  as  you  go. 

FROSTING. 

MRS.    R.  T.  AVELLSLAGER., 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  coffee  sugar  and  (M*©  tablespoon  of  cold 
water  poured  over  the  sugar;  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
froth,  mix  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  deep  bowl  and  add  the  eggs; 
beat  until  stiff. 

FROSTING. 

E.  A.  C. 

One  cup  of  sugar  and  four  tablespbons  of  water  boiled  togeth- 
er; after  taking  from  the  fire  stir  in  the  whites  of  two  well-beaten 
eggs;  beat  well  together,  then  frost  the  cakes. 


JL<Ocif   Ccike^. 


ELECTION  CAKE. 

^§1'^  OUR  pounds  of  flour  and  enough  warm  milk  to  make  a 
^  stiff  batter,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  butter  and  two  and 
^^  a  half  pounds  of  sugar.  Stir  butter  and  sugar  well  to- 
gether; take  half  the  mixture  and  beat  into  the  batter  and 
one  pint  of  good  yeast;  beat  thoroughly  and  let  it  stand 
one  night;  in  the  morning  add  the  remainder  of  the  butter 
and  sugar  and  six  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  then  a  half 
pound  of  flour,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants, 
grated  lemon  peel,  cinnamon,  mace  and  a  small  teaspoon  of  cloves. 
Let  it  rise  twice  before  putting  it  into  pans.  The  more  this  cake 
is  beaten  the  lighter  it  is. 


LOAF  CAKES.  153 

ELECTION  CAKE. 

MRS.  WM.  FINCH. 

One  cup  of  yeast,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  lard,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  egg  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Mix  these  at  night  and  in  the  morning  add  two  cups  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  mace,  one  table- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  flour  enough  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  other  cake, 
raisins  and  currants.  This  makes  three  good  sized  cakes.  Let 
it  rise  in  the  pans  an  hour  or  more;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
ice  when  done. 

MRS.  CAPENTER'S  WEDDING  CAKE. 

Fifteen  e^gs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  flour,  three  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  three  pounds  of 
currants,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  citron,  a  half  pint  of  molasses, 
one  ounce  of  ground  mace  and  one  ounce  of  cinnamon.  Very 
fine. 

WEDDING  CAKE. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound 
of  flour,  four  pounds  of  raisins  after  stoning,  four  pounds  of  cur- 
rants after  washing,  two  pounds  of  citron,  one  ounce  of  nutmeg, 
one  ounce  of  cinnamon  and  a  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  cloves. 

MRS.  DODGE'S  WEDDING  CAKE. 

MRS.  A.  Y.  KAWSON. 

Four  pounds  of  flour,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  twenty- 
seven  eggs,  five  pounds  of  stoned  raisins,  five  pounds  of  currants, 
one  pound  of  citron,  a  half  pound  of  preserved  orange  peel, 
allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  mace  and  three  teaspoons  of 
soda. 

MRS.  HARMON'S  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  coffeecup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  teacup  of  butter,  two- 
thirds  of  a  teacup  of  molasses,  one  teacup  of  buttermilk,  spice 
and  fruit  of  all  kinds,  one  ^^^  and  the  white  of  another,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 


154  LOAF  CAKES. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

MRS.  C.   A.  PAEROTT,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Two  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar, 
two  and  a  half  pounds  of  butter,  twenty-five  eggs,  three  pounds 
of  raisins,  six  pounds  of  currants,  one  pound  of  citron,  one  and  a 
half  ounces  of  nutmeg  and  three-fourths  of  an  ounce  of  mace. 
Mix  like  pound-cake;   rub  the  fruit  into  flour. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

MRS.  DR.  HAMILTON,  DARLINGTOX,  WIS. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  lard, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  four  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons 
of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one 
pound  of  raisins,  a  half  pound  of  citron,  one  tablespoon  of  cin- 
namon, a  half  teaspoon  of  cloves  and  one  nutmeg. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

MRS.  T.  A.  PARKER,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
ten  eggs,  three  pounds  of  raisins,  three  pounds  of  currants,  one 
pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  sliced  figs,  one  pound  of  blanched 
almonds  sliced,  three  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of 
cloves,  one  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  of  mace  and  three  large  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Twelve  eggs  well  beaten,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  one  pound  of  sifted  flour,  a  half  cup  of  molasses, 
three  pounds  of  stoned  raisins,  three  pounds  of  currants,  one  pound 
of  citron,  two  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  a  small  teaspoon  of  cloves, 
grated  peel  of  one  lemon,  a  half  nutmeg  and  rose  essence.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  butter  and  sugar  together  until  light;  whip 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  alternately  with  the  flour; 
add  the  spices,  currants  and  raisins;  put  a  layer  of  dough  into  the 
pan,  next  a  layer  of  citron  sliced  thin,  and  so  alternately  until  .all 
is  in.     Bake  four  hours. 


LOAF  CAKES.  155 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

MRS,  K.   T.  WELLSLAGEE. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  twelve  eggs, 
two  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one  pound  of  cit- 
ron, a  tablespoon  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  a  teaspoon  of  cloves  and 
nutmeg,  extract  of  lemon  or  rose  and  one  pound  of  flour.  Dredge 
the  fruit  in  one-half  the  flour  and  brown  the  remainder. 

CHEAP  FRUIT  CAKE. 

MKS.  F.  CORNING. 

One  ^^'g.,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  a  half 
cup  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  currants,  one  cup  of  raisins, 
a  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  tablespoons  of  sour  milk,  two  table- 
spoons of  yeast,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nut- 
meg. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

MRS.   C.  C.   HOWELL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  teaspoons  of  cream 
tartar,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  nutmeg,  and 
flour  to  make  quite  stiff".     Bake  slowly. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

MISS  KITTY  ALLEN. 

Whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  one  pound 
of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  extract  of  bitter 
almonds,  one  pound  of  blanched  almonds  (sweet),  two  ounces  of 
bitter  almonds,  one  pound  of  citron  cut  fine,  one  cocoanut  grated; 
pound  the  almonds  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  rose  Avater  to  prevent 
oiling.  Whisk  the  eggs  until  they  will  stand  alone;  cream  the 
butter,  into  which  stir  the  flour  until  quite  stiff";  then  add  alter- 
nately egg,  sugar  and  flour,  reserving  a  little  for  fruit,  till  all  are 
well  combined;  flavor  with  vanilla  or  extract  of  bitter  almonds; 
flour  the  fruit,  and  stir  it  in  last.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven,  using  great 
caution  not  to  burn  it.     Frost. 


156  LOAF  CAKES. 

BLACK  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  B.  MILLER. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  pounds 
of  sugar,  three  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  ten  eggs, 
two  nutmegs,  a  half  ounce  of  cloves,  a  half  ounce  of  mace,  three- 
fourths  of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  saleratus. 

HARRISON  CAKE. 

MRS,  C.  B.  WILLIS. 

One  coffecup  of  molasses,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  butter,  one  and 
a  half  cups  of  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  soda,  four  eggs,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron,  a  half  pound  of  raisins, 
one  spoon  of  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon and  six  cofFeecups  of  flour.  This  will  make  two  large 
loaves.     Bake  two  hours.     It  will  keep  a  year. 

HARRISON  CAKE. 

MISS  F,   E,   HASKELL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  five  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda,  spice  and  all  kinds  of  fruit. 

BRIDGEPORT  CAKE. 

MRS.  HART. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  a  fourth  cups 
of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  juice  and  rind  of 
one  lemon,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  two  cups  of 
currants. 

RAISED  CAKE. 

MRS.  A.  Y,  RAWSON, 

One  coflfeecup  of  sponge,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup 
of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  cream,  one  cup  of  raisins,  a  half  teaspoon 
soda  and  spices  to  the  taste.     Mix  quite  stiff  with  flour. 

RAISED  CAKE. 

MRS.  HUDSON,  NEW  BEDFORD. 

Five  cups  of  bread  dough,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  but- 
ter, three  eggs,  one  bowl  of  raisins  and  spice  to  taste. 


LOAF  CAKES.  157 

MRS.  SIBLEY'S  RAISED  CAKE. 

One  pint  of  new  milk,  a  half  cup  of  good  yeast,  one  cup  of 
shortening,  three  eggs,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  spices  of  all  kinds, 
and  fruit.  Stir  stiif  with  flour;  let  it  rise;  and  bake  slowly  for 
one  hour. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

MRS.  R.  T.  WELLSLAGER. 

Four  eggs,  two  coffeecups  of  sugar,  two  coffeecups  of  molasses, 
one  coffeecup  of  butter,  one  cofi"eecup  of  strong  cofi'ee,  five  coffee- 
cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  cloves,  two  teaspoons  of  nutmeg, 
two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  raisins  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  currants. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

MRS.  C.  D.  SPRAGUE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  cold  coffee,  five  cups  of  flour,  one  ^^^.,  one  teaspoon  of 
cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  and  one  pint  of  raisins. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

MRS.  E.  S.  SPEED,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  coffeecup  of  molasses,  one  coffeecup  of  coffee,  one  and  a 
half  coffeecups  of  brown  sugar,  one  coffeecup  of  butter,  five  eggs, 
four  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one 
pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  citron,  three  tablespoons  of  cin- 
namon, one  teaspoon  of  cloves  and  one  nutmeg. 

RICH  COFFEE  CAKE.       " 

MRS.  T.  A.  PARKER,  RUSUVILLE,  ILL. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  cold  coffee,  four  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  two  table- 
spoons of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  soda 
mixed  in  flour,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one 
pound  of  currants  and  one-half  pound  of  citron. 


158  LOAF  CAKES. 

PORK  CAKE.     NO.  1. 

MRS.  C.  B.  WILLIS. 

Pour  over  one  pound  of  pork  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  boiling 
water,  and  add  two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoons of  soda,  spices  to  the  taste,  one  and  a  half  or  two  pounds 
of  raisins,  one  pound  of  citron,  two  eggs  and  flour  to  make  as 
stiflP  as  pound  cake. 

PORK  FRUIT  CAKE. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Pour  over  one  pound  of  fat  pork  cut  fine,  one  pint  of  boiling 
water,  and  add  two  and  a  half  cups  of  molasses  and  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar  or  three  cups  of  molasses,  raisins,  currants  and  cit- 
ron, one  tablespoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  of  ground 
cloves,  one  small  teaspoon  of  soda  and,  if  you  use  the  cake  imme- 
diately, two  eggs. 

FRENCH  LOAF  CAKE. 

MISS  EMMA  DEPUB,  GENOA,  ILL. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  a  half  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  new  milk,  five  eggs,  one  pound  of  raisins,  and  spice  to 
the  taste. 

LEMON  CURRANT  CAKE. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour, 
nine  eggs  leaving  out  two  yolks,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  the 
grated  peel  of  two  and  two  cups  of  currants.  Rub  the  butter  and 
sugar  together  till  very  light,  then  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  a  part  of  the  flour;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiS"  froth 
and  add  them  with  the  remainder  of  the  flour;  beat  well  together; 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  white  paper  and  butter; 
bake  in  a  rather  slow  oven. 

ALMOND  CAKE. 

MRS     THEO.   CARPENTER. 

Beat  one  pound  of  sugar  with  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs;  whip 
the  whites  of  nine  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  above;  then 


LOAF  CAKES.  159 

add  one  pound  of  flour,  a  half  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  a  half 
pound  of  bitter  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  with  rose  water 
to  a  cream,  and  six  tablespoons  of  thick  cream.  Use  the  reserved 
whites  of  the  eggs  for  frosting.  This  makes  one  large  or  two  small 
cakes. 

CITRON  OR  ALMOND  CAKE. 

MRS.  K.  T.  AVEl.LSLAGER. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs  well  beaten,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup 
of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  small  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
two  cups  of  flour.  Put  citron  or  almond  in  layers  of  about  one- 
half  pound  (scant  weight), 

WALNUT  CAKE. 

MISS  EMMA  DEPUE,  GENOA,  ILL. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  stoned  raisins,  one  nut- 
meg, a  half  cup  of  milk,  six  eggs,  the  meats  from  two  quarts  of 
walnuts  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiif 
froth  and  add  them  the  last  thing.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  but 
not  too  hot. 

HICKORY-NUT  CAKE. 

Miss  EMMA  DEPUE,  GENOA,  ILL. 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
corn  starch,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  in  a  little  milk  and 
a  large  pint  of  hickory- nut  meats  stirred  in  the  last  thing. 

HICKORY-NUT  CAKE. 

MRS.  M.  m'cAIN. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  large  coffeecups  of  white  sugar, 
one  coiFeecup  of  butter,  one  coff'eecup  of  milk,  five  and  a  half 
coffeecups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  a  pint 
of  nut  meats.  Bake  in  layers  as  for  jelly  cake,  with  icing  between, 
or  in  a  large  cake.  If  baked  in  a  loaf,  the  cake  will  be  much  im- 
proved by  adding  a  pound  of  raisins. 


160  LOAF  CAKES. 

HICKORY-NUT  CAKE. 

MRS.  L.  A.  PRITCHARD. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of 
flour,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs, 
one  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  one  large  cup  of  nut 
meats. 

SHREWSBURY  CAKE. 

MRS.  S.  P.  WISNER,  CEDAR  RAPIDS. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  milk,  four 
eggs,  one-third  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda  and  three  cups  of  flour. 
Bake  in  flat  tins  and  use  frosting  flavored  with  peach  water. 

CLOVE  CAKE. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  a  half  pound  of  butter, 
four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  nutmeg  and  one  teaspoon  of  strong 
cinnamon.    • 

SPICE  CAKE. 

MRS.  HUDSON". 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup 
of  molasses,  two  eggs,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  cloves  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda.     Put  in  the  molasses  the  last  thing  before  baking. 

POUND  CAKE. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour, 
nine  eggs  leaving  out  two  yolks,  grated  peel  of  one  lemon.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  the  butter  to  a  cream;  add  the  su- 
gar and  the  yolks  and  beat  till  very  light;  then  the  flour  and  whites 
of  eggs,  alternately.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

POUND  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  PA  RM  ELBE. 

Rub  one  pound  of  sugar  and  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter 
to  a  cream;  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  often  eggs,  then  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  froth.     Stir  in  gradually  one  pound  of  flour. 


LOAF  CAKES.  161 

BOSTON  POUND  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.   CARPENTER. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one 
pound  of  flour,  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda  and  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Put  in  the  soda 
the  last  thing. 

LEMON  CAKE. 

MRS.  LANSING  MORRISON. 

Stir  to  a  cream  one  teacup  of  butter  and  three  cups  of  pulver- 
ized sugar;  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teacup  of 
sweet  milk,  one  lemon  grated,  whites  of  five  eggs,  four  and  me- 
half  cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda.  Bake  in  two  tins 
half  an  hour. 

LEMON  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  B.  MILLER. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  butter,  five 
eggs,  four  cups  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  and  the  juice 
and  grated  peel  of  one  lemon. 

LEMON  CAKE. 

MRS.  D.  O.  FINCH. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  pulverized 
sugar,  four  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  ten  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of 
cream  tartar  in  the  flour,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  and 
one  teaspoon  of  of  soda  the  last  thing. 

MARBLE   CAKE. 

MRS.  F.  M.  MILLS. 

Spice  Part. — A  half  cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  brown  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon 
each  of  allspice,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  and  a  half  teaspoon  of 
cloves. 

White  Part. — One  and  a  half  cups  of  white  sugar,  a  half  cup 
of  butter,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  light,  a  half  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  two  cups  of  flour  and  one  large  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 
II 


162  LOAF  CAKES. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

MISS    JENKIE    DICKERSON. 

One  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  five  cups  of  flour  and  the  whites  of 
eight  eggs. 

Sjyice  Part. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  of  molasses,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  white  of  one  Qg^-,  one  tea- 
spoon of  each  kind  of  spice  and  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Put  them  into  the  pan  alternately;  a  white  layer  on  the  bottom  and 
top. 

WHITE  CAKE— MARBLED. 

MRS.   F.  A.  PARKER,  RLTSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  whites 
of  eight  eggs,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  one  teaspoon 
of  yeast  powder.  After  the  cake  is  made,  take  out  one  large  tea- 
spoon of  the  mixture,  and  drop  two  drops  of  fushiene,  mixed 
with  alcohol  (four  drops  if  3'ou  like  it  darker  colored)  iuto  the 
tablespoon  of  cake;  mix  well,  and  then  put  a  layer  of  the  white 
cake  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  streak  the  red  around  in  rings; 
add  more  white,  and  more  red,  till  the  white  is  all  gone.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

MRS.  G.  R.  OSGOOD. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  previously  beaten  to  a  cream;  add  two 
cups  of  sifted  flour,  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  one-half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  and,  when  well  mixed,  bake  in  shallow  pans. 

WILLIE  C.'S  BIRTHDAY  CAKE. 

MISS  JENNIE  CHASE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  oT  water,  whites 
of  four  eggs,  yolk  of  one,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  baking  poAvder,  vanilla  flavor,  and  a  fourth  of  a  pound 
of  citron  cut  in  very  thin  slices.  Reserve  a  half  cup  of  flour  to 
mix  with  the  baking  powder,  and  put  that  in  the  last  thing. 


LOAF  CAKES,  163 

SILVER  CAKE. 

MRS.  C.  P.  HOLMES. 

Two  cups  of  fine  white  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and  flavor  to  the  taste. 

SIX  EGG  CAKE. 

MRS.   WM.  H.  RAY,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Six  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 
new  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of 
cream  tartar,  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  flavor.  This  is  as  good 
as  pound  cake. 

MRS.  MASON'S  CAKE. 

MRS.  ROUNDS. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  put  in  one  cup  of  butter  and,  while  boiling,  add  one 
teaspoon  of  soda.     Spice  and  fruit  to  taste. 

ST.  NICHOLAS  CAKE. 

MRS.   S.  P.  WISNER,  CEDAR  RAPIDS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  not  quite  two  cups  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoon 
of  cream  tartar  and  a  fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

MISS  F.  E.  HASKELL.    /  ,^- 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  '<rwo  cups  of  flour, 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  and 
flavor  to  the  taste. 

LILY  CAKE. 

MISS  EMMA  HOWELL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  water,  one 
cup  of  corn  starch,  two  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs,  one  and 
a  half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  water,  starch  and 
baking  powder  together,  and  flavor  to  the  taste. 


164  LOAF  CAKES. 

MADISON  CAKE. 

MKS.  THEO.  CAKPENTER, 

A  half  pound  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one 
pound  of  flour,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  three  fourths 
of  a  pound  of  currants,  eight  eggs  and  one  gill  of  cream. 

RAILROAD  CAKE. 

MRS.  JOY,  TRENTON    FALLS,  N.  T. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one 
teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  and  flavor.     Very  good. 

RAILROAD  CAKE. 

MRS.  C.  H.  ATKINS. 

Beat  well  one  ^^^  with  a  cup  of  sugar;  add  one  cup  of  sweet 
cream  and  e»e  nutmeg.  Mix  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
with  two  cups,  of  flour  and  add  to  the  above.     Bake  in  shallow  tins. 

UNCLE  ROBERTSON  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  G.  SPRAGUE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  four  eggf ,  a  half  pint 
of  milk  lukewarm,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  four  cups  of  flour,  and 
spice  and  raisins  to  taste. 

YANKEE  CAKE. 

MRS.  SACKETT,  STERLING,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  sour  cream,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs, 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^s,^.,  and  three  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Beat  the  eggs;  add  the  sugar,  butter  and  cream,  and 
beat  again;  then  stir  in  the  flour  and  bake  in  two  pans  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour. 

TEA  CAKE. 

MRS.   M.  A.  RICH,  STERLING,  ILL. 

One  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a 
half  cup  of  butter,  one  ^^g.,  one  teaspon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of 
spices,  and  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour. 


LOAF  CAKES,  165 

FRENCH  CAKE. 

MRS.  C.  T.  SAVERY. 

Two  cups  of'sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  a  half 
cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  one  cup  of  raisins,  two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon  and 
one  of  cloves. 

DOVER  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  M.  OTIS. 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg,  a  half  wine-glass  of  rose 
"water,  one  wine-glass  of  molasses  and  one  pound  of  flour.       nxK- 

\ 

NUMBER  CAKE. 

MISS  EMMA  L.  DEPUE,  GENOA,  ILL. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  four 
eggs,  or  whites  of  seven,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff"  froth  and 
flavor  to  the  taste. 

WHITE  CUP  CAKE.     ' 

MRS.  P.  CORNING. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  a  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  four  eggs  and  three  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder. 

CUP  CAKE. 

MISS  F.  E.  HASKELL. 

One  and  and  a  half  cups  of  butter,  three  cups  of  sugar,  five  cups 
of  flour,  five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda 
and  two  teaspoons  of  creani  tartar. 

CUP  CAKE. 

MRS.   C,   H.   SWEENEY. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  cold  water,  lemon  flavor,  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder  mixed  well  in  the  half  cup  of  flour  and 
put  in  the  last  thing.     Excellent  for  layer  cakes. 


lOZ  LOAF  CAKES. 

RICH  CAKE. 

MRS.  C,  P.  HOLMES. 

Onpi  coffeecup  of  butter,  three  coffeecups  of  sugar,  four  coffee- 
cups  of  flour,  a  half  pint  of  sweet  cream,  four  eggs,  one  nutmeg, 
one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants  and  two  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder. 

WHITE  CLOUDS. 

MRS.  BYRON  ADAMS. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  white  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  a  half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs,  a  small  half-teaspoon  of 
soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar  and  two  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour.     Flavor  with  almond  or  rose. 

BLACK  CLOUDS. 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  molasses,  a  half  cup  of 
butter,  a  half  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoon 
of  soda,  yolks'  of  five  q^^  and  white  of  one,  two  teaspoons  of  cin  • 
namon  and  a  half  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  nutmeg. 

'   WASHINGTON  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.   PAEMELEE. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  but- 
ter, seven  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  and  three- fourths  pounds 
of  flour,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  mace, 
cinnamon  and  cloves, 

COMPOSITION  CAKE. 

MRS.  THEO.  CARPENTER. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  five  eggs,  three  cups  of 
flour,  lemon  and  a  little  soda. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD  AND  MRS.  RICHMOND. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  a  half  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs,  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  flour,  and  one  pound  of  grated  cocoanut, 
put  in  just  before  baking. 


LOAF  CAKES.  167 

DOUGH  CAKE. 

MRS.   J.   CARPENTER. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  light  dough, 
a  half  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water;  raisins,  cur- 
rants and  spices  to  the  taste. 

ECONOMY  CAKE. 

MRS.  S.   P.  ATKINS. 

Make  a  sponge  with  one  pint  of  water  and  one  cup  of  yeast; 
when  light,  add  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs, 
spices,  and  flour  until  it  is  as  thick  as  you  can  well  stir  it. 

ECONOMY  CAKE. 

MRS.  P.  C.  BULKLEY. 

One  teacup  of  sugar,  one  teacup  of  milk,  three  teacups  of  flour, 
one  f'^^-)  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one 
teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  and  flavor  to  the  taste.  Bake  immedi- 
ately. 

CHERRY  VALLEY  CAKE. 

MRS.  C     H.   SWEENEY. 

Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  three  fresh  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of 
cream  tartar  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

MRS.  F.  M.  MILLS. 

Whites  of  fourteen  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  a  half  pound  of 
butter,  a  half  cup  of  milk,  one  pound  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder.     Flavor  to  the  taste. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

MRS.  M.  P.  TURNER. 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  corn  starch,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  one  cup  of  flour.  Dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  the  milk; 
beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  after  all  is  well  beaten 
mix  in  the  whites  lightly. 


168  LOAF  CAKES. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE. 

MRS.   G.   K.  OSGOOD. 

One  cup  of  sugar  and  a  half  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  a 
half  cup  of  corn  starch,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  milk  with  one -half 
teaspoon  of  soda,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one 
cup  of  flour  with  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  and  flavor  to  the 
taste. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE. 

MRS.  DR.   HAMILTON,  DARLINGTON,  WIS. 

One  cup  of  butter,  tvvo  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
one  cup  of  corn  starch,  two  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stifi"  froth,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  and  one  teaspoon  of 
soda.     Flavor  with  lemon. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE. 

MRS.  M.  A.  BOURNE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  cup  of  corn 
starch  sifted  in  flour,  one  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream  with 
sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  even  teaspoons  of  baking  pow- 
der sifted  in  flour,  and  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  added  the  last  thing.  Flavor  to  the  taste.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

MRS.  MEAD. 

Whites  of  nine  eggs,  two  cups  of  powdered  white  sugar,  a  half 
cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  pow- 
der.    Flavor  with  almond  or  rose. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

MRS.  C.  P.  HOLMES. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder  and  flavor  to  the  taste.     This  is  always  good. 


LOAF  CAKES.  169 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  MYERS. 

A  scant  half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  pulverized 
sugar,  a  half  cup  of  water,  whites  of  six  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour 
and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.     Flavor  with  bitter  almonds. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

MRS.  M.  A.   BOURNE. 

A  half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  white  sugar,  a 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  a  half  cup  of 
corn  starch,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  whites  of  six 
eggs  well  beaten  together.  Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream, 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  after  which  the  milk,  and  lastly  the 
flour.  Mix  the  corn  starch  and  baking  powder  well  in  the  flour. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  B.   STEWART. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  pulver- 
ized sugar,  five  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  teaspoons 
of  cream  tartar  and  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  M.   OTIS. 

Whites  of  eighteen  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  nine  ounces  of 
butter,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  tea- 
spoon of  cream  tartar  and  flour  enough  with  two  eggs  to  weigh 
one  pound.  Mix  butter  and  sugar  till  very  light,  add  flour,  then 
milk,  and  the  whites  the  last  thing. 

LADY  CAKE. 

MISS   CORA  CHASE,  EOSEMOND,  ILL. 

Whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon  of  extract 
of  bitter  almonds  or  vanilla.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
mix  in  flour  till  very  stifi",  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  and 
frost. 


i;0  LOAF  CAKES. 

LADY  CAKE. 

MRS.  GBISWOLD. 

One  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
whites  of  eight  eggs,  four  cups  of  flour  and  two  heaping  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder. 

FIG  CAKE. 

MRS.   T.  E.  BROWN. 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  three 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  two  pounds  of  chojDped  figs. 

MOUNTAIN  CiVKE. 

MRS.  A.   L.  FRISBIE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  milk,  two 
cups  of  flour,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 
and  flavor  to  the  taste.     This  makes  one  loaf. 

MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.   E.  STEWART. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  milk,  the 
whites  of  ten  eggs,  four  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoon 
of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar  sifted  with  the  flour  and 
flavor  to  the  taste. 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

MRS.    J,  P.   FOSTER. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs  and  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder. 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

MBS.  J.  B.   MILLER  AND  MRS.  HART. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
milk,  one  teaspoon  of  butter,  one  ^%'g.,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tar- 
tar and  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda. 


LOAF  CAKES.  171 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

MRS.   C.   P.  HOLMES. 

Whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  a 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder  and  flavor  to  the  taste. 

LINCOLN  CAKE. 

MKS.   M.   R.  KELLOGG. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
and  flavor  to  the  taste. 

SNOW  CAKE. 

MRS.   COL.  STE-SA'AET. 

Sift  flour  and  sugar  before  measuring,  then  take  one  tumbler 
of  flour,  one  and  a  half  tumblers  of  pulverized  sugar  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  cream  tartar.  Mix  the  above  thoroughly  and  sift  into  a 
bowl;  beat  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  with  one  spoonful  of  vanilla  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  pour  over  the  flour,  mixing  as  lightly  as  possible. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SNOW  CAKE. 

MRS.  G.  M.  HIPPEE. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs  whipped  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  one  and  a 
half  tumblers  of  sifted  flour,  one  and  a  half  tumblers  of  pulverized 
sugar,  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  even  teaspoon  of  cream 
tartar;  flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  almond.  Sift  the  flour,  sugar, 
cream  tartar  and  salt  into  a  bowl,  mix  thoroughly  and  add  the 
flavoring.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light  in  a  large  platter,  then  with 
one  hand  sprinkle  the  above  ingredients  into  the  eggs,  dipping 
slowly  and  lightly  with  your  egg-beater  barely  enough  to  mix; 
avoid  stirring  more  than  necessary.     Bake  as  soon  as  possible. 

CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 

»  MRS.  J.   P.  FOSTER. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  a  half  cup  of  cream  and  two 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  Flavor  with  vanilla 
and  beat  well  before  the  flour  is  put  in. 


173  LOAF  CAKES. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Take  the  weight  of  ten  eggs  in  fine,  white  sugar,  and  the  weight 
of  six  eggs  in  sifted  flour;  break  twelve  eggs,  putting  the  whites 
into  the  cake  bowl;  beat  them  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  the  sugar, 
stirring  briskly.  Have  the  yolks  beaten  v^ry  light,  and  mix  the 
whole  thoroughly,  adding  two  tablespoons  of  fresh  cold  or  ice 
water,  and  flavor  as  desired,  and,  lastly  the  flour,  working  it  as 
lightly  as  possible.  Turn  into  square  cake  pans,  lined  with  but- 
tered paper,  and  bake  immediately  in  a  moderately  hot  oven;  if 
too  hot,  a  crust  forms  on  the  top,  which  crumbles  and  disfigures 
the  cake. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

MRS.  F.  M.  MILLS. 

Four  eggs,  two  coffeecups  of  sugar,  two  coffeecups  of  flour  and 
one  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  eggs  and  su- 
gar well  together  and  stir  in  all  the  flour  they  will  take;  then  add 
a  half  cup  of  boiling  water.  Put  the  baking  powder  into  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour  and  stir  in.      Bake  quickly. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  white  sugar,  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately,  two  cups  of  flour,  three  tablespoons  of  cold 
water,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  two  teaspoons  of  baking  pow- 
der sifted  into  one-half  cup  of  the  flour  and  add  the  last  thing. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

MISS  ADDIE  V.  HAMILTON,  DARLINGTON,  WIS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  five  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of 
cream  tartar  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda.     Flavor  with  lemon. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

MRS.  C.  A.  PARROTT,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Two  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  heaping  cups  of  flour  and 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water  put  in  the  last  thing. 


LOAF  CAKES.  173 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

MRS.   M.   A.  BOURNE. 

Eight  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  two  cups  of  su- 
gar, two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  and  one 
teaspoon  of  soda.  Mix  the  cream  tartar  in  the  flour;  dissolve 
the  soda  in  a  teaspoon  of  warm  water;  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar 
together;  stir  the  whites  in  lightly,  then  the  flour  in  the  same 
way,  adding  a  little  salt.  Flavor  with  lemon  and  bake  imme- 
diately in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes.  If  made  strictly  by 
this  receipt,  it  will  be  excellent. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  LAIRD  AND  MISS  JESSIE  SWEENEY. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  water,  six  eggs,  one  and  a  half 
cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Separate  the 
eggs  and  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  put  in  the 
water;  mix  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour  and  stir  in,  a  little 
at  a  time,  until  thoroughly  mixed;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stifi"  froth 
and  mix  as  lightly  as  possible  through  the  cake,  just  before  placing 
it  in  the  oven.  The  oven  must  not  be  too  hot  when  the  cake  is 
first  put  in. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

CARRIE  BECK. 

Beat  three  eggs  well  with  one  cup  of  white  sugar  and  one  table- 
spoon of  cold  water;  add  one  cup  of  flour,  with  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  mixed  through,  and  flavor  with  lemon.  Bake  in 
a  shallow  pan. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

MRS.  G.  W.  PARROT,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  a  half  cup  of  water:  and 
one  teaspoon  of  yeast  powder.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
pour  the  water  over  the  sugar  and  stir  in  the  whites,  put  in  the 
yolks  lightly,  add  the  flour  and  yeast  powder  and  mix  just  enough 
to  make  smooth. 


174  FANCY  CAKES. 

ICE-WATER  SPONGE  CAKE. . 

MRS.  SACKETT,  STERLING,  ILL. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  three 
eggs,  one  a«d-a  half  cup^  of  ice-water  and  one  and  a  half  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  with  one  table- 
spoon of  water,  thoroughly.  Better  than  any  ten-egg  cake  I  ever 
ate. 

BERWICK  SPONGE  CAKE. 

MRS.  HART. 

Beat  three  eggs  two  minutes;  add  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar 
and  beat  five  minutes;  then  add  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  mixed  in  the  flour,  a  half  cup  of  cold  water,  another 
cup  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  and  half  the 
juice. 


^ki\dy  dake^  foi^  f^ai^tie^. 


SILVER  CAKE. 
&<?^s^^L  HITES  of  twelve  eggs,  five  cups  of  flour,  two  and  a  half 


cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  cream 
"llgRF?-^  or  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  a  half 
■M,^^         teaspoon  of  soda.     Beat  and  mix  as  the  following 


m 


p'  GOLD  CAKE. 

Yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  five  cups  of  flour,  three  cups  of  white 
sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  cream  or  milk,  a 
half  teaspoon  of  soda  and  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar.  Beat  the 
eggs  with  the  sugar,  then  stir  in  the  butter,  softened  by  the  fire; 
dissolve  the  soda,  and  sift  the  cream  tartar  with  one  cup  of  the  flour; 
mix  all  together,  then  sift  and  stir  in  the  rest  of  the  flour.  i3ake 
in  a  deep  loaf  pan.  These,  baked  as  "  Marbled  Cake,"  give 
another  variety. 


FANCY  CAKES.  175 

PINK  CAKE. 

MRS.  H.  H.  BENSON,  BELOIT,  WIS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  flour,  whites 
of  five  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  analine  the  size 
of  two  grains  of  wheat;  tie  the  last  in  a  thin  cloth  and  pour  over 
it  a  half  teaspoon  of  hot  water.  The  analine  can  be  put  in  one- 
half  the  mixture  and  dropped  into  the  pan  with  alternate  spoons 
of  the  white,  making  a  marbled  cake  which  is  very  ornamental. 
The  effect  is  better  to  have  the  mixtures  put  together  in  small 
quantities. 

ANOTHER  PRETTY  CAKE. 

Bake  white  cake  in  three  layers,  with  pink  frosting.  Cut  it  in 
small  squares  of  about  two  inches  and  alternate  it  in  the  basket 
with  chocolate  cake  made  as  follows: 

Bake  the  above  gold  cake  in  corresponding  thin  layers.  Scrape 
fine  two  tablespoons  of  chocolate;  put  it  into  a  tin  cup  and  pour 
over  it  just  enough  hot  water  to  dissolve  it  into  a  cream,  setting  it 
on  the  stove  for  a  moment.  Stir  this  into  the  frosting,  making  it 
just  a  pretty  shade  of  brown.  Cut  this  cake  into  diamonds.  I 
always  bake  my  thin  cakes  in  square  tin  pans.  Half  the  receipt 
for  gold  cake  makes  two  thin  ones.  The  white  of  one  ^^'g  is 
enough  for  one  cake.  The  amount  of  chocolate  given  is  intended 
for  two. 

LAYER  FRUIT-CAKE. 

MRS.  W.   BURTON". 

'  Whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  full  cups  of  flour,  and  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder. 

Icing. — One  pint  of  sugar  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth;  add  sufficient  water  to  the  sugar  to  melt  it,  boil  to 
a  thick  syrup,  pour  a  little  at  a  time  boiling  hot  into  the  whites, 
stirring  rapidly,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Take  a  pound  of  rais- 
ins and  a  half  pound  of  dates,  stone  the  raisins,  cut  the  dates 
into  small  pieces  and  mix  together;  spread  one  layer  of  the  cake 
with  icing  rather  thick,  cover  the  icing  with  fruit,  add  a  little 
more  icing,  then  another  layer  of  cake  and  ice  the  cake  all  over. 
This  makes  two  large  cakes. 


i 


176  LAYER  CAKES. 


NEAPOLITAN  CAKE. 

MKS.  T.  A.  PARKER,  RUSUVILLE,  ILL. 

niWiif  ^^^"^  make  the  dark  cake  after  the  following  recipe: 
i^ir    ^^®  ^"P  ^^  butter,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one   cup 
5^^=^^  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  strong  coffee,  four  and  a  half 
\i5  teacups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  soda,  two  tea- 
y  ^!^  spoons  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of 
J       mace,  one   pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants  and  a 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron  (more  fruit  makes  the  cake  hand- 
somer, but  this  quantity  will  do).     Bake  the  cake  in   round   pans 
with  straight  sides.     The  loaves  should  be  one  and  a  half  inches 
in  thickness  after  baking. 

The  white  cake  is  made  as  follows:  One  cup  of  butter,  four 
cups  of  powered  white  sugar,  two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of 
corn  starch  mixed  with  the  flour,  four  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted 
flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs  and  six  teaspoons  of  baking  powder; 
flavor  slightly  with  bitter  almonds.  Bake  in  the  pans  used  for  the 
black  cake,  making  the  light  and  dark  loaves  of  the  same  thick- 
ness. 

After  the  cake  is  all  cold,  each  black  loaf  should  be  spread  with 
a  thick  frosting:  made  as  follows:  White  of  one  egg  beaten  light, 
graced  rind  of  two  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  and  powdered 
sugar  enough  to  make  a  thick  frosting.  Lay  the  white  and  black 
loaves  alternately ;  frost  all  over  as  you  would  any  other  loaf;  be 
particular  to  use  no  other  flavoring  than  lemon  in  the  frosting. 
This  makes  an  elegant  cake,  equally  tempting  to  the  eye  and  the 
palate. 

RAISIN  CAKE. 

MRS.  M.  ETHRIDGE. 

Three  small  cups  of  sugar,  one  small  cup  of  butter,  one  small 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  corn  starch  and  two  teasx)oons  of  baking  powder; 


LAYER  CAKES.  177 

bake  in  four  cakes.  Make  an  icing  and  spread  on  the  top  and 
bottom  of  each  layer;  seed  and  chop  one  pound  of  raisins  and  put 
them  between  the  layers  after  icing. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

MRS.  G.  E.  OSGOOD. 

One  good  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  a  fourth 
cups  of  flour,  five  eggs  leaving  out  two  of  the  whites  for  icing, 
one  small  cup  of  milk  and  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  a  dripping-pan  and  leave  it  in  until  used,  as  it 
is  too  light  and  soft  to  be  removed. 

Chocolate  for  filU>%g. — To  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to 
a  froth,  add  sufficient  powdered  sugar  and  grated  chocolate  to 
make  a  light,  delicate  icing,  and  two  teaspoons  of  vanilla.  Ice 
the  cake  while  hot. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

MISS   JESSIE    SWEENEY,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  a 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in 
three  cups  of  flour. 

Icing. — A  fourth  of  a  pound  of  German  chocolate  and  a  half 
cup  of  milk;  grate  the  chocolate  and  mix  with  the  milk,  thicken 
with  sugar;  boil  the  mixture  till  it  candies,  then  spread  between 
the  layers. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.   PARMELEE  AND  MRS.   CHASE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  four  cups  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  Avater,  whites  of  eight  eggs  and  three  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.     Before  mixing  the  cake,  make  the  frosting,  as  follows: 

Pour  over  one  and  a  half  cups  of  cocoanut  sufficient  good,  sour 
cream  to' thoroughly  mix  it,  add  sugar  to  sweeten  it,  let  it  stand 
until  the  cake  is  cool,  then  put  it  between  the  layers.  The  cream 
must  be  free  from  any  bitter  taste  and  very  thick.  Blanched 
almonds  chopped  fine  are  excellent  instead  of  cocoanut. 


178  LAYER  CAKES. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

MISS  E.  M.   PAEKOTT,  KUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  three 
cups  of  flour,  whites  of  ten  eggs  and  three  teaspoons  of  yeast 
powder. 

Icing. — Twelve  teaspoons  of  pulverized  sugar  and  one  egg 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  large,  fresh  cocoanut  grated  and  sprink- 
led between  the  layers  on  the  icing. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

MKS.  HAEKNESS. 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of 
butter,  a  half  cup  of  cold  water,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour, 
a  half  cup  of  corn  starch  and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to 
each  cup  of  flour. 

Frosting. — Whites  of  three  eggs,  six  tablespoons  of  pulverized 
sugar  and  one  ctjp  of  cocoanut.     Bake  in  four  round  tins. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

MES.  J.  B,  LTMAK,  ROCKFOED,  ILL. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  three- fourths  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  one-fourth  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs;  bake  in  three  cakes;  then 
take  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stifi"  froth  with  pulver- 
ized sugar,  add  one  cocoanut  (grated)  and  spread  between  the 
layers;  frost  the  top. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

MISS  F.  E.   HASKELL. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  a  half  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs,  one  tea- 
cup of  milk,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  small  teaspoon  of  soda 
and  two  small  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar.  This  will  make  six  or 
seven  cakes. 

Frosting. — Into  one-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in  a 
teacup  of  boiling  water,  stir  two  pounds  of  sugar;  flavor  and 
spread  over  the  top  and  sides  of  each  cake. 


LAYER  CAKES.  179 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

MISS  JESSIE  SWEENEY,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  three 
cups  of  flour,  whites  of  ten  eggs  and  three  teaspoons  of  yeast  pow- 
der. 

Icing. — Six  cups  of  sugar  and  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to 
a  froth.  Boil  the  sugar  till  it  candies  in  a  half  cup  of  water,  then 
add  the  whites  of  two  beaten  eggs. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 


Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  flour,  al- 
most one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda, 
one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  and  the  whites  of  eight 
eggs  (six  will  doj;  flavor  with  lemon.  Bake  in  layers  in  square 
tin  pans.     Put  together  with  the  following 

Frosting  :  Whites  of  six  or  seven  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  nine  full  teaspoons  of  pulverized  sugar  to  one  egg,  flavor 
with  lemon  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth.  A  pleasant  change  is  made 
by  stirring  in  one  cup  of  dessicated  cocoanut. 

CUSTARD  CAKE. 

MISS   BAILEY,  ROSEMOND,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  half 
cup  of  water,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  and  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Custard.-— Tvfo  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk 
and  two  teaspoons  of  corn  starch;  flavor. 

ALMOND  CUSTARD  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  B.  LYMAN,    ROCKFORD,  ILL. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour, 
the  whites  of  twelve  eggs  and  the  yolks  of  seven. 

Custard. — One  pint  of  sweet  cream,  one  pound  of  soft  shell 
almonds  blanched,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  with 
four  spoons  of  sugar.  Beat  the  cream  to  a  froth  with  four  spoons 
of  sugar;  then  mix  cream  and  eggs;  chop  almonds  and  add  them 
the  last  thinof.       Flavor  with  almond  or  vanilla. 


180       •  LAYER  CAKES. 

MRS.  SHERMAN'S  ALMOND  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  flour,  six 
eggs,  one  cup  of  milk  and  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder; 
bake  in  layers. 

Icing, — One  coifee-cup  of  thick  sour  cream,  two  eggs,  one 
pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped,  sugar  to  taste  (make 
rather  sweet),  flavor  with  vanilla  and  spread  between  the  layers. 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 

MRS.    J.    P.    FOSTER. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
three  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  yolks  of  nine  eggs  and  three  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder. 

Cream  for  cake. — Whites  of  three  eggs  and  two  and  a  half  cups 
of  pulverized  sugar,  put  the  sugar  on  the  stove  with  a  few  drops 
of  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  get  a  little  candied;  then  re- 
move from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stifi"  froth; 
beat  thoroughly  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

ICING  CAKE. 

MISS    CORA  CHASE,  ROSEMOND,  ILL. 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  sifted  sugar  and  a  half  pound  of 
flour,  flavor  with  the  grated  rind  and  half  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Make  into  sponge  cake  batter,  bake  in  jelly  pans. 

Icing. — Whites  of  three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  pul- 
verized sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  sour  orange  and  the 
juice   of  the   half  leition  left  from   cake.     Make   into   icing  and 

spread  between  the  layers  of  cake. 

w 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

MRS.   W.   H.  MEREITT. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  better, 
one  cup  of  milk,  five  cups  of  flour,  seven  eggs,  omitting  the  yolks 
of  three,  and  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  bake  in  four  layers. 

Frostmg. — Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stifi",  add  sugar  for  a 
very  stiff  frosting  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  four  oranges; 
beat  thoroughly  and  spread  between  the  layers. 


LAYER  CAKES.  181 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

MISS  HATTIE  m'mANUS. 

One  half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  a  half  cup 
of  water,  two  heaping  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  four  eggs,  yolks  of 
three,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange,  two  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder. 

Frosting. — Whites  of  two  eggs,  sugar  sufficient  to  stiflfen  and 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange. 

ORANGE  CAKJE. 

MRS.  OAKS,  MT.  CARROLIi,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  a  half  cup  of  cold  water, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  four  eggs,  reserv- 
ing the  white  of  one  for  frosting,  and  two  oranges — the  whole  of 
one  chopped  fine  and  stirred  in  the  cake,  the  juice  of  the  other 
put  into  the  frosting.  Bake  in  three  layers.  This  is  just  as  good 
with  lemons. 

LEMON  OR  ORANGE  CAKE. 

MRS.  m'wILLIAMS. 

Eight  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of 
milk,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  four  cups  of  flour. 
Use  only  the  yolks.     Bake  in  layers. 

Icing. — Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  put  into  a  coffee 
cup  of  dry  powdered  sugar,  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and 
the  grated  rind  of  two.  For  orange  cake,  make  the  icing  with 
oranges. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 

MRS.  G.  R.  OSGOOD. 

A  half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
three  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs  and  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder. 

Jelly. — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  sugar,  one  Qgg  and  one  tablespoon  of  cold  water.  Set  on  the 
stove  and  stir  till  it  boils;  when  cool,  put  between  the  layers  of 
cake. 


183  LAYER   CAKES. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 

MISS  JENNIE  M.  CHASE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  one-half  cups 
of  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff"  froth,  two-thirds  of 
a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  one  teaspoon  of  yeast  powder.  Beat 
butter  and  sugar  together  till  very  light;  pour  in  the  water,  add 
the  flour  and  whites  of  eggs  alternately,  reserving  the  half  cup  of 
flour  to  mix  thoroughly  with  the  yeast  powder,  and  stir  in  the  last 
thing. 

Lemon  Jelly. —  Grate  t*wo  lemons,  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  two  eggs  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut.  Separate  the  eggs — beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff'  froth, 
the  yolks  till  very  light,  add  the  sugar  and  the  lemons  to  the  yolks, 
mix  the  corn  starch  with  a  little  cold  water,  pour  in  a  half  pint  of 
boiling  water,  mix  all  together,  let  it  scald,  and  stir  in  the  whites 
just  before  taking  it  from  the  stove.  Let  it  cool  before  putting 
it  between  the  layers.  This  jelly  is  very  good  between  layers  of 
sponge  cake,  leaving  out  the  eggs. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 

MRS.  C.  P.  HOLMES. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
five  eggs,  saving  two  of  the  whites  for  jelly,  and  tlwee^  cups  of 
flour.  *-  7  *^ 

Jelly. — Whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
one  lemon. 

JELLY  CAKE. 

,     MRS.  J.  B.   MILLER. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  milk, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar 
and  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda.  Bake  in  layers  and  spread  jelly  be- 
tween. 

JELLY  CAKE. 

MRS.  GEO.   COOPER. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  heaping  cup  of  flour,  one 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  sweet  milk  and 


LAYER  CAKES.  183 

one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  two  tins 
with  buttered  paper  on  the  bottom;  turn  out  when  done,  spread 
jelly  on  the  bottom  and  roll. 

ROLL  JELLY  CAKE. 

MRS.  GILL. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  flour  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder.  Do  not  beat  the  eggs  separately;  mix 
all  together  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
While  hot,  spread  on  the  jelly,  which  is  to  be  well  beaten  before 
putting  on  the  cake.     Roll  in  a  napkin. 

MRS.  SPEED'S  LAYER  CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder  and  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  till  very  light,  add  flour  and  whites  al- 
ternatel}^  and,  just  before  putting  in  the  oven,  stir  in  the  boiling 
water.  Bake  in  a  large  bread  pan;  have  the  cake  one  inch  thick 
when  done;  then  cut  into  pieces. 

Icing. — White  of  one  Qg^,  large  cup  of  sugar,  and  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Spread  between  the  layers  and  ice 
over  the  top.     This  is  excellent. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

MRS.  FRED.  GETCHELL. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  two 
tablespoons  of  cold  water  and  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Cream. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  sugar,  two  large  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  and  a  half  cup  of 
butter;  flavor  with  lemon.  Cook  the  cream  well  and  let  it  cool 
before  putting  in  the  cake. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

MRS.  GILL. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  and  one  tablespoon  of  butter.     Bake  in  layers. 

Cream. — Scald  a  half  pint  of  sweet  milk;  add  one  ^^'^  beaten 
with  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  of  corn  starch, 
and  boil  until  quite  thick.  Let  the  cream  cool  before  putting  to- 
gether. 


184  LAYER  CAKES. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

MRS.  H.  C.  DEPUE,  BUSHNELL,  ILL. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cu^d  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  mixed  in  the  flour,  and  one  tablespoon  of  water. 
Bake  the  cake  in  two  pie-tins;  while  hot  split  the  cake  and  put 
in  thi"s 

Cream:  Boil  one  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  add  three  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  one  Q^^.,  one  large  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  mixed  in  a 
little  milk,  and  when  nearly  done  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
flavor  to  the  taste. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

MRS.  STEWART,  LYONS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  four  eggs,  butter  the  size  of 
an  Q.^s^  and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  jelly-cake 
pans. 

Cream. — Scald  one  goblet  of  milk  and  add  the  whites  of  two 
eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  a  half  cup  of  sugar  and  fla- 
vor to  the  taste. 

CREAM  SPONGE   CAKE. 

MISS  JESSIE  SWEENEY,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Four  eggs,  one  coffeecup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one 
tablespoon  of  water. 

Cream. — Put  one  pint  of  cream  or  sweet  milk  on  the  stove  and 
let  it  scald;  mix  thoroughly  together  one  Q^^-,  one  tablespoon  of 
flour,  a  half  cup  of  sugar  and  a  half  cup  of  butter  and  add  to  the 
scalding  milk  or  cream;  stir  until  the  custard  is  quite  thick;  fla- 
vor to  the  taste.  Bake  the  cake  in  layers  in  mountain-cake  pans 
and  spread  the  cream  between. 

CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

Make  a  sponge  cake,  bake  it  in  three  or  four  layers,  and  have 
ready  the  following  cream  for  filling  :  Boil  one  pint  of  milk,  beat 
two  eggs,  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  half  cup  of  flour;  stir  all 
into  the  milk  and  let  it  boil  till  it  thickens,  then  flavor.  Put  this 
between  the  cakes;  ice  the  top. 


LAYER  CAKES.  185 

BOSTON  CREAM  CAKES. 

MES.  M.  E.  KETCHUM,  TOLEDO,  OHIO. 

Boil  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  one  tumbler  of  water; 
stir  in  one  and  a  half  tumblers  of  flour  while  boiling;  take  it  from 
the  fire,  and  when  cool  add  five  eggs,  then  add  a  half  teaspoon  of 
soda.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  fifteen  minutes.  When  done,  make  a  hole  in  the  side  of  the 
cakes  and  put  in  the  following 

Cream:  Two  tumblers  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  coflFeecups  of 
sugar,  a  half  coffeecup  of  flour  and  two  eggs.  Beat  the  sugar, 
eggs  and  flour  together;  add  a  little  flavor  and  stir  in  the  milk 
while  boiling;  let  it  boil  until  of  the  consistency  of  custard. 

BOSTON  CREAM  CAKES. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE, 

■  A  half  pound  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  flour,  ten 
eggs,  one  pint  of  water,  and  one  small  teaspoon  of  soda.  Boil 
butter  and  water  together,  sprinkle  in  flour  while  boiling;  let  it  boil 
for  two  or  three  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while.  When  cool,  add 
eggs  and  soda;  beat  well  together.  Drop  the  batter  on  tins,  a  ta- 
blespoon at  a  time,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cream  for  filling. — One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of 
white  sugar  and  one  cup  of  flour.  Boil  the  milk.  Beat  eggs, 
flour  and  sugar  together  and  stir  in  while  boiling.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  When  cool  open  one  side  of  the  cakes  and  fill  with  the 
cream. 


186 


SMALL  CAKES. 


^nikll  dake^. 


FRUIT  DROP  CAKES. 

MRS.   J.    CAKPENTER. 

WO  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  one  pound  of  currants  and  three  eggs;  flavor  with 
lemon.     Strew  tin  sheets  with  flour  and  powdered  sugar 
and  drop  in  small  cakes.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

LITTLE  PLUM  CAKES. 

Make  a  dough  as  for  pound  cake,  then  add  raisins  and  currants. 
Bake  in  patty  pans. 

SPICE  CAKES. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  an^-arhalf  cup|  of  butter,  a  salt-spoon 
of  cloves,  a  salt-spoon  of  cinnamon,  a  salt-spoon  of  allspice,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk  and  flour  sufficient  to  roll. 

CLOVE  CAKE. 

MISS  KATIE  B.  SPRAGUE. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  a  half  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  ^%^.,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  and  one  tablespoon  of  ground 
cloves. 

SPONGE  DROP  CAKES. 

MRS.  C.   P.   HOLMES. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  three  eggs  and  one  small 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in  the  flour.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs 
and  sugar  thoroughly  together,  then  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  sprinkle  in  the  flour  and  stir  just  enough  to  wet  it. 
Flavor  to  the  taste.     Bake  in  gem-pans  or  small  tins. 


SMALL  CAKES.  187 

BAKERS'  LEMON  SNAPS. 

W.   H.  C. 

Two  pounds  of  sugar,  twelve  ounces  of  lard,  a  fourth  of  an 
ounce  of  hartshorn,  eight  eggs  and  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour. 
Flavor  with  lemon;  roll  thin  and  cut  into  small,  round  cakes. 

LEMON  SNAPS. 

MRS.  G.  R.  OSGOOD. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  teaspoons  of  water,  A.  ^^-p^^ 
one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  rind  and  juice  of  one  /  ' 

lemon  and  flour  sufficient  to  roll.     After  they  are  cut  out  put  on 
the  white  of  an  ^^^  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

JUMBLES. 

MRS.  POST,  SPRINGFIELD,  ILL. 

Five  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  two 
eggs,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  two  teaspoons  of  baking  pow- 
der. Flavor  with  caraway  seed,  lemon  or  nutmeg.  Mix  the  in- 
gredients together  and  work  in  flour  till  it  will  roll  nicely.  Very 
fine. 

■  JUMBLES. 

MRS.  SACKETT,  STERLING,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  and  a  third  cups  of  butter, 
four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons  of  sweet  milk,  and  flour  suffi- 
cient to  roll  out  soft.  Sprinkle  white  sugar  over  them  before 
putting  them  into  the  oven. 

JUMBLES. 

MRS.  PRANK  PORTER,  CHICAGO; 

One  cup  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three 
cups  of  sugar,  four  eggs  and  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder; 
mix  very  soft,  roll  and  cut  out;  have  a  plate  of  cofi'ee  sugar  ready 
and  drop  each  cake  bottom  side  up  .on  the  sugar,  and  immedi- 
ately transfer  to  the  baking-pan.  Bake  in  a  moderately  quick 
oven. 


188  SMALL  CAKES. 

JUxMBLES. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PEITCHAED. 

Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  four  eggs,  one  nutmeg  and  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  flour. 
Roll  in*  fine  sugar  and  flour  mixed  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CAROLINA  CAKES. 

MRS.  WOOLEY,  ROSEMOND,  ILL. 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
cream,  thicken  with  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  in  flour, 
add  one  teaspoon  of  soda  the  last  thing.  Flavor  with  lemon  and 
drop  from  the  spoon. 

LADY  FINGERS. 

MRS.  R.  A.  BUNKER,  SPRINGFIELD,  ILL. 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  of  butter,  three  cups  of  flour  and  two  cups 
of  sugar;  flavor'to  the  taste.  If  made  into  a  paste  for  fingers, 
add  just  enough  flour  to  bring  it  into  a  roll  the  size  of  a  finger. 
They  are  nice  dipped  in  icing. 

SAND  TARTS. 

MRS.  M.  A.   RICH,  STERLING,  ILL. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  a  half  pound  of  butter 
and  two  eggs,  leaving  out  one  of  the  whites.  Work  the  butter  to 
a  cream,  add  the  sugar,  flour  and  eggs;  make  a  stifi"  paste,  roll 
very  thin  and  cut  in  forms.  Have  ready  some  powdered  sugar 
and  cinnamon;  wash  the  tarts  with  the  beaten  white  of  one  Qg^.^ 
sprinkle  the  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  them,  lay  a  few  blanched 
almonds  on  the  top,  and  bake. 

SCOTCH  CAKE. 

MRS.  M.  S.    BILLINGS,  JACKSONVILLE,  ILL. 

Two  and  a  half  pounds  of  butter  (salt  thoroughly  washed  out) 
and  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar;  stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  add  four  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  roll  a  fourth  of  an  inch  in 
thickness  and  cut  in  squares;  caraway  with  candy  mites  on  the 


SMALL  CAKES.  189 

top.  Turn  your  hake-pans  upside  down,  cover  with  white  paper, 
lay  the  cakes  on  with  a  knife  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  They 
will  keep  good  for  months. 

COOKIES. 

MKS.    C.    D.    SPKAGUE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  ^^'g.,  four  tablespoons  of 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  nutmeg.  Mix  soft  and  roll 
thin,  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

COOKIES. 

ALICE    HART,    EOSCOE,    MISSOURI. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  gill 
of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  and  one  teaspoon 
of  soda.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk  and  put  the  cream  tar- 
tar in  the  flour.  Mix  soft,  roll  thin  and  cut  into  strips  or  squares 
with  a  jagging  iron. 

SPICED  COOKIES. 

MRS.  E.  S.  SPEED,  EUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Three  heaping  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  lard, 
one  teacup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  tablespoons 
of  cinnamon,  even  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  add  flour 
enough  to  roll.     Bake  in  a  very  quick  oven. 

COOKIES. 

MRS.    C.    H.    GETCHELL. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  table- 
spoon of  sour  milk,  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  nutmeg,  and  flour  to 
roll  as  soft  as  possible. 

COOKIES. 

MRS.  C.  P.    HOLMES. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  small  tea- 
spoon of  soda  and  a  little  nutmeg;  mix  soft.  Put  a  cloth  lightly 
over  the  paste-board  and  rub  it  well  with  flour;  this  will  prevent 
the  dough  from  sticking. 


190  SMALL  CAKES. 

MOTHER'S  COOKIES. 

Mils.  G.  COOPER. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda  in  one  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  spice,  and  flour  enough  to 
roll  thin. 

CHRISTMAS  COOKIES. 

MRS.    A.    T.    RAWSOJSr. 

Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 
sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  half  pint  of  water 
and  one  teaspoon  of  soda.     Excellent. 

NEW  YEAR'S  COOKIES. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

Beat  three-four.ths  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  one  pound  of  su- 
gar to  a  cream  and  add  three  eggs,  one  teacup  of  sour  milk, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  half  cup  of  caraway  seeds  and  flour 
enough  to  roll  nicely.     Very  fine. 

COOKIES. 

MRS.   C.  C.  HOWELL. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  flour 
to  mix  soft.  Break  an  ^^^  before  baking  them  and  spread  them 
with  it;  then  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES. 

MRS.   EANNIE  TALCOTT,  ROCKFORD,  ILL. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  small  cup  of  butter,  a  half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  tivo  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
one  cup  of  cocoanut  and  flour  to  roll  nicely;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

FRIED  CAKES. 

MRS.  DR.  ANTHONY,  STERLING,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  sour  milk,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  lard,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  ginger,  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda  and  flour  sufiicient  to  roll.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 


SMALL  CAKES.  191 

FRIED  CAKES. 

MRS.  JULIA  SCEIPPS,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  one  egg,  one  table- 
spoon of  lard,  two  teaspoons  of  soda,  a  little  allspice,  and  flour  to 
roll  nicely.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

FRIED  CAKES. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  six  tablespoons  of  melted  lard,  a 
half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoon  of  mace,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  flour  to  mix  soft. 

RICH  CRULLERS. 

MRS.  CORNELL. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  four  and 
one-half  pounds  of  flour,  eight  eggs,  one  teacup  of  milk  and  one 
teaspoon  of  soda.  Crullers  should  be  rolled  very  thin,  cut  with  a 
jagging  iron  into  oblong  blocks  three  or  four  inches  wide,  slit 
lengthwise  two  or  three  times,  fried  in  hot  lard  a  few  minutes  only 
and  taken  out  when  a  light  brown. 

CRULLERS. 

MRS.  S.  HARTMAISr. 

Six  eggs,  twelve  tablespoons  of  sugar,  four  tablespoons  of  cream, 
a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  little  salt  and  flour  sufficient  to 
roll  out. 

CRULLERS. 

MRS.  G.  R.  OSGOOD. 

Three  eggs,  three  tablespoons  of  sour  cream,  four  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  one  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda  and  flour  to  thicken. 
Roll  thin. 

CRULLERS. 

MRS.  T.  5;.  BROWN. 

One  ^^'g.,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter,  and  flour  sufficient  to  roll.     Fry  in  hot  lard.     Fine. 


193  SMALL  CAKES. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS.  G.  R.  OSGOOD. 

Three  cups  of  unsifted  flour  (sift  after  measuring),  a  half  cup  of 
butter,  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of  lard  rubbed  into  the  flour,  a  half  cup 
of  good  yeast  and  one  cup  of  milk«  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise; 
when  light,  mix  in  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar  and  one  ^^^.,  pre- 
viously beaten  together,  and  cinnamon  to  the  taste;  add  flour 
enough  to  mold,  and  let  it  rise  again;  after  the  second  rising,  do 
not  work  the  dough.      Roll  out  and  fry. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS.  HART. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-fourth  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  butter 
or  lard,  one  cup  of  yeast,  three  eggs;  spice  to  taste.  When  the 
sponge  is  light,  add  soda  and  salt;  mold,  roll  out  and  cut;  then 
let  stand  on  the  board  till  light. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS  WITHOUT  SUGAR. 

M.  L.  R. 

One  medium  sized  bowl  of  sponge,  three  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  flour  to  mold  soft.  Let  it  stand 
till  very  light;  cut  and  twist  and  fry  brown.  They  are  very  good 
when  fresh  to  eat  with  coffee. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS.    M.  E.  KELLOGG. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  and  a  half 
cups  of  lard,  a  half  cup  of  yeast,  one  nutmeg  and  salt  to  taste. 
Set  a  sponge  at  night;  in  the  morning  add  the  other  ingredients. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS.  A.  Y.  RAWSO>i  AND  MRS.  C.  D.  SPRAGUE. 

Two  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sour  milk,  a  half  cup  of  thick 
cream  or  three  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a 
half  teaspoon  of  soda  (if  the  milk  is  very  sour  a  little  more),  and 
flour  enough  to  mix  soft.  When  butter  is  used  instead  of  cream, 
mix  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  together  first.     Good. 


SMALL  CAKES.  193 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS.   E.  S.  SPEED,  BUSHYILI^,  ILL. 

Three  large  cups  of  sugar,  a  half  teacup  of  butter,  four  eggs, 
one  pint  of  buttermilk,  two  teaspoons  of  soda,  two  tablespoons  of 
cinnamon  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  nice  dough. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS.  F.  CORNING. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  seven  ta- 
blespoons of  butter  or  lard,  a  little  salt,  three  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  and  flour  sufficient  to  mix  soft. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS.  J.  B.    STEWART. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  two  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and 
flour  enough  to  mix  soft. 

SNOW  BALLS. 

MRS.  C.  B.  WILLIS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  four  tablespoons  of  milk,  one  tea- 
spoon of  cream  tartar,  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda  if  the  milk  is 
sour,  if  not,  a  half  spoon,  spice  to  taste  and  flour  enough  to  make 
into  balls.  Fry  in  hot  lard  and  dip  them  in  the  white  of  an  Q^'g., 
then  in  powdered  sugar  until  white. 

TANGLE  BREECHES. 

MISS    CORA    CHASE,  ROSEMOND,  ILL. 

Six  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one  pound  of  sugar,  a  fourth  of  a 
pound  of  butter  and  add  enough  flour  to  roll.  Cut  in  square 
blocks,  slit  them  and  fry  in  lard.  Drain  and  sift  a  little  sugar 
over  them. 

MATRIMONY. 

•  MRS.  C.  C.  HOWELL. 

Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff"  froth  and  flour  to  knead 
a  stiff"  dough.  Roll  as  thin  as  a  wafer;  cut  into  fancy  shapes; 
drop  into  hot  lard  for  a  moment;  turn  and  take  out;  then  roll  in 
pulverized  sugar. 

13 


194 


GINGER  BREAD. 


GERMAN  CAKES. 

MBS.    THEO.    CARPENTER. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  but- 
ter, three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  one  wine  glass  of 
rose  water.  Roll  the  dough  thin;  cut  into  cakes  and  cover  with 
almonds,  blanched  and  cut  in  halves. 

ROCK  CAKE. 

MRS.    JENNIE    CARPENTER. 

Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  blanched  and  cut 
fine,  one  pound  of  pulverized  sugar  and  the  whites  of  five  eggs. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  the  sugar  then  the  almonds, 
and  drop  on  white  buttered  paper  in  small  cakes,  making  them 
cone  shaped.  Place  them  in  a  cool  oven  until  they  can  be  remov- 
ed from  the  paper  without  breaking. 

MACAROONS. 

MRS.  J.   CARPENTER. 

One  and  a  fourth  pounds  of  almonds  blanched  and  pounded 
with  a  little  rose  water,  one  pound  of  sugar  and  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  beaten  very  light.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  stirring 
all  the  time,  then  the  almonds,  and  make  them  up  with  a  teaspoon. 
Bake  gradually  a  light  brown. 


G[ii\^ei^  Sfekd. 


SOFT  GINGER  BREAD. 

I  NE  cup  of  molasses  and  one  tablespoon  of  lard,  heated 
together  until  hot;  add  half  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  a  tea- 
spoon of  ginger  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  dis- 
solve one  large  teaspoon  of  soda  in  hot  water  and  mix  in 
the  last  thing.     Bake  in  rather  a  slow  oven. 


GINGER  BREAD.  195 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD. 

MRS,   E.   T,  WELLSLAGEE. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar, 
a  half  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  egg,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
^^•g^  one  teaspoon  of  ginger,  two  large  cups  of  flour  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD. 

MES,  C.  H.  ATKINS. 

'  One  cup  of  molasses,  one  of  cream,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  teaspoon  of  ginger,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  mixed 
with  the  flour,  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda. 

SPICED  GINGER  BREAD. 

MISS  E.  E.  HASKELL. 

Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  soda,  one  table- 
spoon of  ginger,  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of 
cloves,  one  cup  of  currants  and  one  cup  of  raisins. 

GINGER  BREAD,  (PLAIN). 

MES.  A.  E.  OSGOOD. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  one 
^KSi  one  teaspoon  of  ginger,  a  little  salt,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  cream, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  and  flour  enough  to  mix  soft.  Roll  in 
sheets,  score  with  a  knife  in  squares  or  diamonds,  and  bake. 

GINGER  BREAD. 

MES.  W.  H.  BAY,  EUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  butter,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  ta- 
blespoon of  soda  and  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar.  Bake  half 
an  hour. 

GINGER  SPONGE  CAKE. 

MES.  P.  COENING. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  molasses,  a  half 
cup  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two 
eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  ginger,  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda. 


196  GINGER  BREAD. 

GINGER  CAKE. 

MRS.  HARKNESS. 

Beat  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar  and  a  half  cup  of  butter  to  a 
cream  and  add  two  eggs,  one  small  tablespoon  of  ginger,  one 
heaping  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  heap- 
ing teaspoon  of  soda  and  flour  enough  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  cup 
cake. 

DROP  GINGER  CAKES. 

MRS.   C.   H.   GETCHELL.  ^ 

One  pint  of  molasses,  a  half  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  teacup  of 
butter  and  lard,  four  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  ginger,  one  table- 
spoon of  soda  and  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop 
into  a  shallow  pan. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

One  pint  of  syrup,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  butter,  a  table- 
spoon of  lard,  a  half  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one 
tablespoon  of  ginger,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  and  flour  for  stifi" 
dough. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

MRS.   C.  D.   SPRAGUE. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  shortening,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  one  tablespoon  of  gin- 
ger, mix  stiff  and  roll  thin.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

GRANDMA  SI'EED,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Three  pints  of  molasses,  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  lard,  two-thirds 
of  a  teacup  of  ginger  and  one-third  of  a  cup  of  soda.  Mix  with 
flour  and  roll  thin. 

GRAHAM  SNAPS. 

MRS.  W.  A.  COLTON. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  a  half  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  butter 
and  one  teaspoon  of  soda.  Sift  the  Graham  flour  and  mix  them 
stiff  enough  to  roll. 


GINGER  BREAD.  197 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

MES.  J.  LAIRD  AND  MES.  C.  W.  SIBLEY. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cap  of  butter  and 
lard  mixed,  two  teaspoons  of  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  and  a 
little  salt.  Heat  sugar,  molasses,  butter  and  lard  to  boiling,  stir 
in  ginger  and  soda  while  hot,  mix  rather  stiff  and  roll  thin. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

MRS.  T.  E.  BROWNi 

A  fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  lard,  a 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  molasses,  two  tablespoons 
of  ginger,  one  wine-glass  of  milk,  one  large  teaspoon  of  soda  in  the 
milk,  and  flour  sufficient  to  roll|thin 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

MRS.  S.  JOHNS. 

Three  teaspoons  of  melted  lard  or  butter,  three  teaspoons  of 
boiling  water  in  a  teacup,  filling  the  cup  with  molasses,  one  tea- 
spoon of  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  little  cloves  and  flour  to 
roll. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

MRS.   W,  R.   STEWARD. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  melted  lard 
and  butter,  one  Q^g.,  one  tablespoon  of  ginger,  three  tablespoons 
of  water,  one  tablespoon  of  soda  and  flour  to  mix  soft. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

MRS.  E.   S.  SPEED,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  teacup  of  molasses,  one  teacup  of  butter,  a  half  teacup  of 
sugar,  a  half  teacup  of  water,  one  tablespoon  of  ginger,  one  table- 
spoon of  soda,  flour  sufficient  to  roll. 


dfJ^^M^  ^X®  ^^Kc^Y  f)igS]^0. 


TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

MRS.  KETCHUM,  CHICAGO. 

"^i^fe^  OAK  one  small  teacup  of  tapioca  in  a  pint  of  milk  over 
"lll^^r  ^^S^^'  ^^  *^^  morning  add  one  quart  of  milk.  Set  the 
Jjr^P?^^  pail  in  which  it  is  made  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water; 
/in,  beat  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  add  sugar 
'  to  the  taste  and  three  teaspoons  of  flavor.  It  is  very- 
well  to  use  one  part  lemon  and  two  parts  vanilla  (or  vice 
versa).  Cook  until  smooth,  like  a  soft  custard;  beat  the 
whites  thoroughly  and  stir  in  after  it  is  done.  Served  cold,  it 
makes  a  most  delicate  dessert. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

Soak  two  tablespoons  of  tapioca  for  two  hours;  boil  in  one  quart 
of  milk;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  with  one  cup  of 
sugar;  let  this  boil  up,  then  set  it  away  to  cool.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  add  a  little  sugar,  pour  over  the  top  and  bake  a  light 
brown.     Eat  cold. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

MRS.  C.  H.  GETCHELL. 

Four  tablespoons  of  tapioca  soaked  four  hours,  yolks  of  five 
eggs,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  raisins  and  flavor  to 
the  taste.  Boil  one  quart  of  milk  and  add  the  eggs,  sugar,  tapi- 
oca and  raisins.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  pour  into  molds,  and  put 
the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  sugar  on  the  top. 

199 


200  CREAMS  AND  FANCY  DISHES. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

MRS,  PwOUNDS. 

Four  tablespoons  of  tapioca,  one  quart  of  scalded  milk,  four 
eggs  and  eight  tablespoons  of  sugar  beaten  with  the  yolks.  Boil 
like  custard,  flavor,  frost  and  brown. 

EGG  CREAM. 

MRS.   CLEGHORN. 

Scald  three  pints  of  new  milk;  take  nine  eggs,  leaving  out  the 
whites  of  six;  sugar  the  remainder  to  the  taste  and  beat  well;  turn 
the  milk  over  them  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  when  of 
the  consistency  of  cream,  turn  into  a  dish  to  cool.  Take  the  whites, 
add  six  dessertspoons  of  fine  sugar,  three  of  currant  jelly  and  fla- 
vor to  the  taste;  beat  very  stift'  and  spread  over  the  whole. 

RICE  CREAM. 

MRS.  EVA  BRYCE. 

Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  rice,  two  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  and 
sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Cook  slowly  about  four  hours,  stir- 
ring occasionally;  then  bake.  A  good  dish  to  prepare  Saturday 
and  serve  cold  for  Sunday  dinner. 

FRUIT  CREAM. 

Take  a  half  ounce  of  isinglass  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water, 
add  one  pint  of  good  cream  sweetened  to  the  taste,  and  boil  it. 
When  nearly  cold,  lay  some  apricot  or  raspberry  jam  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  glass  dish,  and  pour  it  over.     This  is  excellent. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 

MRS.  E.  S.    SPEED,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Three  pints  of  milk  and  cream,  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  cofi'e- 
cup  of  white  sugar  and  six  sheets  of  gelatine.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla. Put  the  gelatine  in  the  milk  when  cold;  heat  slowly  and 
make  as  you  would  boiled  custard;  then  pour  into  the  molds.  It 
should  be  made  some  twelve  hours  before  wanted  for  use,  as  it 
will  not  jelly  sooner.     If  in  a  hurry,  add  more  gelatine. 


CREAMS  AND  FANCY  DISHES.  201 

LEMON  CREAM. 

MRS.  M,  J.  WELLSLAGEE. 

To  a  half  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  put  one  pint  of  cold  water;  let 
it  stand  ten  minutes;  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  one 
cup  of  sugar;  flavor  with  lemon  or  acid;  boil  it  three  or  four  min- 
utes, then  let  it  cool,  and  slowly  stir  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
well  beaten;  again  set  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil; 
then  stir  in  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  turn  into  a  mold. 

HAMBURG  CREAM. 

MRS  M.   A.  RICH,  STERLING,  ILL. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  with  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon;  stir  it  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes, 
being  careful  not  to  cook  it  too  much;  take  it  off  and  stir  in  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  froth. 

VANILLA  CREAM. 

MRS.  F.  M.  MILLS. 

To  a  half  box  of  gelatine  put  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  let  it 
stand  an  hour;  then  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  one  cup  of 
sugar;  let  it  cook  until  it  will  jelly;  then  stir  in  slowly  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  beaten  light  and  flavor  with  tartaric  acid  to  the  taste. 
Take  from  the  stove,  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  molds. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 

MISS  HATTIE  STOWE. 

Put  a  half  box  of  gelatine  into  a  half  pint  of  cold  milk;  after  it 
is  dissolved  set  it  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  beat  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  and  stir  them  in ;  when  it  comes  to  the  boiling 
point  again,  take  it  from  the  stove  and  stir  in  the  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs.  Flavor  to  the  taste  and  put  on  ice  to  cool.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar. 

THOMPSON'S  ICE  CREAM. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Boil  three  quarts  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar  and 
twelve  eggs.  Simmer  all  together,  strain  and,  when  cool,  add  three 
pints  of  well  beaten  cream  and  flavor. 


203  CREAMS  AND  FANCY  DISHES. 

ICE  CREAM. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

One  quart  of  milk,  six  eggs  and  a  half  pound  of  sugar.  Mix 
thoroughly;  and  only  heat  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Strain  well 
after  taking  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  add  the  flavor. 

ICE  CREAM. 

MRS.  SARAH  m'cLURE,  BEARDSTOWN,  ILL. 

One  gallon  of  milk,  six  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar  or  more,  and 
eight  tablespoons  of  corn  starch.  Boil  one  half  the  milk,  add  the 
corn  starch  and  boil  again,  then  the  yolks  of  eggs,  but  do  not  boil 
(only  cook),  then  strain  it  over  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  beat  thoroughly;  put  in  the  remainder  of  the  milk 
with  the  sugar  dissolved  in  it  and  when  cold  the  flavor.  Beat  fre- 
quently during  the  process  of  freezing. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Two  pounds  of  white  sugar,  two  quarts  of  water,  the  juice  of 
six  lemons.  Strain  through  a  wire  sieve  and  freeze  like  ice  cream. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 
Is  made  in  the  same  way  by  substituting  oranges. 

WHIPS. 

MRS.  A.  Y.  RAWSON. 

•  /I  - 

One  pint  of  cream,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  the  whites  of  two  or 
three  eggs,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  cream.  Beat  cream 
and  whites  separately,  then  mix,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  beat  up 
together  just  before  putting  into  glasses  for  the  table. 

SYLLABUB. 

MISS  CORA  CHASE,  ROSEMOND,  ILL. 

Whip  a  half  pint  of  rich  cream  and  two  tablespoons  of  fine 
white  sugar  to  a  froth,  remove  the  foam  and  add  the  juice  and 
half  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 


CREAMS  AND  FANCY  DISHES.  .     203 

FRENCH  CUSTARD. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHAED. 

One  quart  of  milk  and  twelve  eggs.  Beat  the  whiles  to  a  froth; 
when  the  milk  boils  lay  them  in  for  a  moment,  turn  them  over 
and  take  them  out.  Beat  with  the  yolks  sufficient  sugar  for  a 
custard,  flavor  to  the  taste,  pour  them  into  the  boiling  milk,  turn 
into  the  dish  and  lay  the  whites  over. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

MRS.  E.  A.  C. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  five  eggs  and  sugar  to  the  taste.  Put 
the  milk  into  a  tin  pail  and  set  in  boiling  water.  Beat  the  yolks, 
one  white  and  sugar  well  together;  pour  them  into  the  boiling 
milk,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  thickens;  then  take  it  from  the 
stove  and  add  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  Just 
before  tea  whip  the  other  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  large 
spoon  of  powdered  sugar  and  lay  on  the  top  of  the  custard. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

MRS.  WILLARD. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  pour  this  on  a  quart 
of  milk  previously  set  to  boil,  and  when  the  milk  boils  remove 
the  foam.  Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three 
together  with  sugar  and  salt  to  taste;  stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk. 
Let  it  boil,  then  pour  into  a  glass  dish  with  the  foam  floating. 
Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Sweeten  one  pint  of  rich  cream  with  loaf  sugar  and  stir  into  it 
sufficient  currant  jelly  to  color  it  a  fine  pink.  Put  it  in  a  glass 
bowl  and  place  in  the  center  a  pile  of  sliced  sponge  cake,  every 
slice  spread  thickly  with  jam  and  laid  evenly  one  on  another. 
Have  ready  another  pint  of  cream  flavored  with  the  juice  of  two 
lemons  and  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Heap  it  all  over  the  pile  of 
cake  so  as  to  entirely  cover  it;  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  very 
stiff'  froth  and  spread  over  the  top.  Both  creams  must  be  made 
very  sweet. 


304    .  CREAMS  AND  FANCY  DISHES. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

MES.   T.  A.  PAEKKE,  EUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Makfe  a  boiled  custard  of  a  pint  of  milk  and  four  e^gs,  flavor 
with  vanilla,  make  it  very  svpeet  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Put  half 
an  ounce  of  gelatine  into  a  gill  of  hot  milk,  when  dissolved  pour 
it  into  a  quart  of  rich  cream  and  whip  to  a  froth.  When  the  cus- 
tard is  cold  stir  in  the  cream  gently.  Line  a  mold  with  thin 
slices  of  sponge  cake  or  sponge  fingers,  pour  in  the  mixture  and 
set  in  a  cool  place. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

MES.  KETTIE  DODGE,  KOSEMOND,  ILL. 

Make  a  pint  of  rich  custard  with  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk 
and  vanilla  to  the  taste.  Dissolve  ,nearly  a  half  box  of  Cox's  gel- 
atine in  a  little  warm  water,  pour  it  into  the  custard  when  nearly 
cool  and,  while  congealing,  stir  in  a  quart  of  whipped  cream. 
Line  a  glass  bowl  with  strips  of  sponge  cake  and  pour  the  mix- 
ture over  it.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  rose  and  grate  rose  candy 
over  the  top. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

MES.  J.  PAEMELEE. 

Stir  six  eggs,  well  beaten,  into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk,  add 
one  pint  of  white  sugar,  then  dissolve  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine 
in  one  pint  of  water,  stir  this"  into  the  custard  while  hot,  strain 
through  a  sieve  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  When  thoroughly  cold 
add  three  pints  of  sweet  cream  churned  to  a  froth  and  flavor. 
Line  a  dish  with  sponge  cake,  fill  with  the  charlotte  and  cover 
with  a  piece  of  cake  if  you  like. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 

MES.  J.  CAEPENTEE. 

Mix  one  square  of  chocolate  grated  fine  with  four  large  spoons 
of  corn  starch,  make  into  a  paste  with  a  little  milk,  pour  it  into 
one  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  pour  into 
molds  and  when  cold  eat  with  cream  sweetened  and  flavored. 


CREAMS  AND  FANCY  DISHES.  205 

CORN  STARCH  BLANC  MANGE. 

MISS  JENNIE  CHASE. 

One  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  and  one  even 
tablespoon  of  sugar  mixed  well  in  a  little  extra  milk,  butter  the 
size  of  a  hickory-nut  and  a  little  salt.  When  the  milk  scalds 
stir  in  salt,  butter  and  corn  starch,  and  let  it  boil  three  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time;  then  take  it  from  the  stove  and  flavor  with 
vanilla;  pour  into  a  mold  previously  wet  with  cold  water  and  set 
away  to  cool.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  flavored. 

JELLY  BLANC  MANGE. 

MRS.   C.   P,  HOLMES. 

Take  currant,  or  any  tart  jelly,  and  dissolve  in  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  water  for  the  amount  you  wish  to  make,  enough  of  it 
to  make  it  taste  nicely;  put  it  in  a  pan  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water;  when  hot,  dissolve  corn  starch  in  cold  water  and  stir  in 
until  thick  enough  to  mold.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 


C!0XS^5<C^I0X^^Y. 


CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

^  NE  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of 
s  butter,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  chocolate,  one  cup  of 
milk;    boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time;    add 
vanilla;  spread  thin  on  buttered  tins. 

j  CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Mix  a  half  cup  of  grated  chocolate  and  one  cup  of  milk  to- 
gether until  perfectly  smooth;  put  one  cup  of  molasses  and  three 
cups  of  brown  sugar  on  the  stove  in  a  greased  pan,  stir  twenty 
minutes  (try  by  dropping  a  little  into  a  glass  of  water — ?f  it  hard- 
ens it  is  done);  then  put  in  the  chocolate  and  milk  and  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  boil  fifteen  minutes  more,  stirring  all 
the  time;  pour  into  buttered  tins,  and  when  cool  mark  with  a 
knife. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  grated  choco- 
late, one  cup  of  milk,  a  half  cup  of  butter;  use  vanilla  or  lemon 
for  flavor.  Boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  it  will  harden  in 
cold  water  or  on  snow,  and  cool  in  shallow  pans.  Syrup  should 
never  be  used  in  candy  making.  Candy  should  be  pretty  con- 
stantly stirred  to  prevent  burning  and  the  pans  always  well 
greased. 

207 


208  CONFECTIONERY. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

MISS  LIZZIE  SMITH,  MT.  CAKKOLL,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  chocolate  and  one  tablespoon  of  butter.  Boil 
until  it  becomes  brittle  in  cold  water;  pour  out  in  shallow  pans, 
and,  when  it  begins  to  harden,  cut  it  in  squares  with  a  knife. 

CARAMELS. 

MRS.  C.  C.   HOWELL, 

Two  pints  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  half  pint  of 
cold  water,  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  one  tablespoon  of  lem- 
on extract.  Boil  until  it  candies,  but  do  not  stir  it.  Pour  into 
buttered  plates,  let  it  stand  until  cool  enough  to  pull,  and  be  sure 
to  flour  the  hands.  Chocolate  or  cocoanut  may  be  mixed  with  it. 
Any  flavoring  will  do. 

HICKORY- NUT  DROPS. 

MISS    CARRIE  WEAVER. 

One  pound  of  white  sugar,  one  pound  of  nuts  chopped  fine, 
whites  of  five  eggs  and  three  tablespoons  of  flour;  beat  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stifi"  froth,  add  sugar,  nuts  and  flour  together;  drop  on 
buttered  tins,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

One  cup  of  mola&ses,  a  half  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of 
vinegar  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Boil  just  ten  minutes,  stir- 
ring all  the  time;  cool  it,  and  pull. 

• 

VINEGAR  CANDY. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  vinegar  and  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of 
butter;  boil  until  it  will  harden  in  water,  and  flavor  just  before 
removing  it  from  the  fire. 

COCOANUT  CANDY. 

MISS  CORA  CHASE,  ROSEMOND,  ILL. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  water,  one  teaspoon  of  cream 
tartar  and  one  cup  of  cocoanut. 


CONFE  CTIONER  K  209 

FRENCH  CREAM  CANDY. 

Set  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and  one  pint  of 
"water  on  the  stove  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  boil,  but  no  longer; 
after  it  boils  well  add  one- fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  pure  cream  tar- 
tar; boil  rapidly  ten  to  twenty  minutes;  try  a  little  in  a  cup  of 
cold  water  and  if  it  has  a  soft,  waxy  appearance  it  is  done.  Set 
away  to  cool,  and  when  nearly  cold  stir  it  with  a  flat  piece  of 
wood  until  it  has  a  snowy,  white  appearance. 

CREAM  CANDY. 

MKS.  JOr,  TRENTON  FALLS,  N.  T. 

One  pound  of  lump  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  tumbler  of  water,  one 
teaspoon  of  vinegar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  a 
half  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar.  Boil  twenty  minutes  without  stir- 
ring; pull  when  cgol. 

WHITE  TAFFY  CANDY. 

MISS  LIZZIE  SMITH,  MT.  CARROLL,  ILL. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  water  and  one  tablespoon  of 
vinegar;  boil  until  it  will  harden  in  cold  water,  pour  on  but- 
tered plates  and  pull  as  soon  as  it  is  cool.  It  is  better  not  to 
cook  more  than  double  this  amount  at  a  time. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  molasses. 
Boil  until  it  will  harden  in  water,  and  spread  it  thinly  in  pans. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

MRS.  C.  H.  SWEENEY. 

Three  tablespoons  of  silver  drip,  one  pound  of  sugar,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Mix  well  before  boil- 
ing; when  done  pour  on  buttered  paper  and  cut  into  squares 
before  it  cools. 

KISSES. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNEK. 

Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  with  two  pounds  of  sugar,  and  a 
little  citric  acid.     Flavor  with  lemon  and  drop  on  buttered  paper. 
14 


210  CONFECTIONERY, 

KISSES. 

MRS.   C.  B.  WILLIS. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  froth;  add  the  juice  of  one 
lemon  or  a  little  rose-water;  sift  and  roll  a  half  pound  of  white 
sugar  and  beat  with  the  eggs;  spread  white  paper  on  buttered 
tins;  drop  the  mixture  on  the  paper,  a  tablespoon  at  a  time,  and 
put  them  into  an  oven  only  moderately  hot.  When  the  tops  be- 
come hard  take  them  from  the  oven,  have  a  solution  of  gum  ara- 
ble, dip  the  lower  sides  of  the  cakes  into  it  and  join  them  to- 
gether. 

COCOANUT  KISSES. 

MRS.  J.   P.  FOSTER. 

Take  the  same  weight  of  sugar  and  of  grated  cocoanut,  being 
careful  before  grating  to  remove  the  brown  skin  inside  the  shell; 
allow  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  one  nut,  beat  them  to  a  stiff  froth, 
mix  with  the  cocoanut,  place  on  the  fire  and  stir  till  it  boils  and 
looks  clear;  then  remove  it,  wet  your  hands  in  cold  water  and 
make  little  pyraijiids.  Put  them  on  white  paper  greased  with  fresh 
lard,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  tops  are  a  little  brown. 
Take  them  from  the  paper  while  warm  to  prevent  breaking. 

COCOANUT  CAKES. 

MRS.  C.  B.  WILLIS. 

Take  equal  parts  of  grated  cocoanut  and  powdered  white  sugar; 
add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  six  to  a  pound,  or 
enough  to  wet  the  whole;  drop  the  mixture  on  buttered  tins  in 
cakes  the  size  of  a  cent,  and  several  inches  apart.  Bake  imme- 
diately in  a  moderate  oven. 

COCOANUT   CAKES. 

MRS.   J.  B.  STEWART. 

Grate  fine  one  cocoanut,  and  add  two  cups  of  sugar  and  the 

white  of  one  q^^  beaten  to  a  froth.     Drop  on  flat  buttered  tins, 

and  bake  slowly. 

COCOANUT  CAKES. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  grated  cocoanut  and  whites 
of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.     Drop  on  buttered  paper. 


f  f{l/.l¥B,  JE(I<I<I5<g  S]v[f)  f^f}S^gi^?vVS^g. 


'ill   PORCELAIN  kettle  is  the  best  to  cook  fruit  in.     Use 

~  fjr  nice  sugar  for  jellies  and  preserves.     Take  off  the  scum 

^||^^      that  rises  to  the  top  in  boiling  fruits.     In  stirring  fruit 

^  use  a  wooden  spoon  or  j^addle.      Strain  jelly  through  a  flan- 

Ij?^     nel   bag.     Marmalade  and  jam  must  be  stirred  constantly 

I     while  boiling. 

Before  tying  up  fruits,  cut  a  paper  the  size  of  the  vessel,  dip 

in  brandy  and  lay  on  the  top.     If  a  mold  forms  all  over  this  the 

fruit  will  keep  well,  but  if  in  spots,  it  must  be  scalded.     Jellies 

and  preserves  keep  better  in  -small  jars  or  glasses  than  in  large 

ones,  as  frequent  dipping  into  them  causes  them  to  ferment. 

Suggestion. — Put  up  jam  while  hot.  Fruit  and  sugar  which 
have  been  boiled  together  for  some  time,  keep  better  if  the  pots 
into  which  they  are  poured  are  tied  while  hot. 

STEWED  AND  BAKED  APPLES. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Pare  and  core  some  firm,  acid  apples,  stick  cloves  in  them,  fill 
the  vacancy  left  by  the  core  with  sugar  and  some  thin  strips  of 
lemon-peel,  if  convenient,  and  put  them  into  a  baking-pan  with 
just  water  enough  to  keep  them  from  burning.  Bake  until  ten- 
der, but  not  until  they  break.  Eat  cold,  with  whipped  cream 
heaped  over  them,  for  dinner,  or  with  plain  cream  for  tea. 

CODDLED  APPLES. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Peel  twelve  apples  and  set  them  in  a  pan,  slice  in  one  lemon, 
add  one  pint  of  wbite  sugar  and  one  quart  of  water  or  more,  cover, 
arid  boil  slowly  until  the  apples  are  clear. 

211 


212  FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES. 

BOILED  APPLES. 

V  MES.  SIBLEY,  CHICAGO. 

Take  a  number  of  large,  tart  apples;  pare  them  or  not,  as  you 
choose;  extract  the  core,  taking  care  to  keep  the  apples  whole; 
place  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish,  fill  each  cavity  with  sugar, 
and  add  enough  more  to  make  a  rich  syrup;  put  in  enough  water 
to  make  the  syrup;  cover  close  and  stew  slowly  a  couple  of  hours. 

PRESERVED  APPLES. 


Cut  vap  a  quantity  of  pippins;  take  the  parings  and  cores  and 
boil  alone  for  an  hour,  strain  off  the  water,  add  it  to  the  sliced 
fruit,  put  it  into  a  sauce-pan  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  apples  are 
done;  then  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit, 
and  boil  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  taking  care  that  it  does 
not  burn. 

CUT  APPLES. 

MRS.    C.  M.   CARPEKTEB. 

Boil  down  sweet  cider  a  little  more  than  half;  chop  the  apples 
and  two  or  three  lemons  and  put  into  the  boiling  cider;  add 
enough  sugar  to  make  palatable.     Fine. 

APPLE  SNOW. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Stew  one  quart  of  apples  with  one  lemon  till  very  tender,  press 
them  through  a  sieve  and  sweeten;  just  before  serving  stir  in  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  sweetened,  and  pile  upon  a  glass 
bowl.     Eat  with  rich  cream. 

CRYSTAL  APPLES. 

MRS.  F.  V.  STOWE. 

Pare  twelve  good  eating  apples  and  boil  them  in  a  quart  of 
water  with  a  pint  of  white  sugar  until  tender  clear  through,  taking 
care  not  to  break  them;  take  them  from  the  syrup  and  place  in 
a  dish;  boil  the  syrup  down  until  it  is  thick,  then  pour  it  over 
the  apples;  place  them  on  ice  and  eat  with  rich  cream. 


FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES.  213 

APPLE  MERINGUES. 

MRS.    J.    P.    FOSTER. 

Fill  a  small,  deep  dish  half  full  of  stewed  apples,  or  any  pre- 
served acid  fruit,  (peaches  are  very  good),  and  pour  over  an  icing 
of  the  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs  and  six  tablespoons  of  white 
sugar;  bake  slowly  from  one  to  two  hours.  It  can  be  eaten  cold 
or  hot. 

A  DELICIOUS  DISH  OF  APPLES. 

MRS.   S.  SIBLEY,  CHICAGO. 

Pare  and  core  two  pounds  of  apples,  slice  them  into  a  pan,  add 
one  jDOund  of  loaf  sugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  grated  rind 
of  one;  let  these  boil  slowly  about  two  hours;  turn  into  a  mold, 
and  serve  when  cold  with  custard  or  cream. 

APPLES  TO  BE  EATEN  WITH  MEAT. 

MRS.  W.  H.  SIBLEY. 

Take  good,  tart  apples,  slice  them  without  paring  into  a  pie-tin, 
sprinkle  sugar  over  them,  put  in  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  a 
little  water  and  bake  until  tender. 

AMBROSIA. 

MRS.   B.  S.  SPEED,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Six  sweet  oranges,  peeled  and  sliced,  one  pineapple,  peeled 
and  sliced,  and  one  large  cocoanut,  grated.  Place  alternate  lay- 
ers of  orange  and  pineapple,  with  grated  cocoanut  between,  and 
sprinkle  pulverized  sugar  over  each  layer.     This  is  delicious. 

AMBROSIA. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHABD. 

Two  cocoanuts,  six  lemons  and  six  oranges;  pare  and  slice  the 
lemons  and  oranges  and  grate  the  cocoanut;  place  layers  of  or- 
ange and  lemon  alternately  with  cocoanut,  and  sprinkle  powdered 
sugar  over  each  layer. 


214  FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES. 

AMBROSIA. 

MR.  C.   E.   CHASE. 

Peel  twelve  oranges  and  slice  them  thin;  grate  one  fine,  large 
cocoanut;  put  in  a  glass  dish  alternate  layers  of  orange  and  coca- 
nut,  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  each  layer. 

CANNED  PEACHES,  OR  OTHER  FRUIT. 

MRS.  G.  R.  OSGOOD. 

Make  a  syrup  of  two  pints  of  water  and  four  pints  of  sugar;  let 
it  boil;  put  in  the  peaches  and  cook  till  tender,  then  fill  the  can. 
Add  more  sugar  as  the  syrup  thins  by  putting  in  fruit. 

CANNING  FRUIT. 

MRS.  J.  G.  BLAKE,  MT.  CARROLL,  ILL. 


TIME  FOE  BOILING  FEUITS. 

SUGAB 

:  TO  QTTAET, 

Cherries, 

5  minutes. 

6  ounces. 

Raspberries, 

-       6 

tt            _         . 

4 

(C 

Blackberries, 

6 

ct            .              _ 

6 

(( 

Strawberries,     - 

-       8 

"    - 

8 

U 

Plums,            ... 

10 

a          .            . 

8 

(( 

Whortleberries, 

-        5 

"    .            .            - 

4 

u 

Pie  Plant,  sliced. 

-   10 

«         _ 

10 

(( 

Bartlett  Pears,  halved,    - 

20 

"    - 

6 

(C 

Quinces,  sliced. 

-      15 

u        . 

10 

u 

Ripe  Currants,     - 

6 

"  - 

8 

(( 

Peaches, 

8 

4t               _                 _ 

4 

(( 

Peaches,  whole  - 

-  15 

"    - 

4 

(( 

Siberian  Crab  Apples,     - 

25 

a         . 

-   8 

(C 

Sour  Apples,  quartered. 

-     10 

cc 

5 

(( 

SUGGESTION. 

MRS.  HOWELL. 

While  canning  fruit,  put  a  table  knife  all  around  inside  of  the 
jar,  moving  slowly,  until  the  bubbles  do  not  rise;  then  fill  again 
and  seal. 

PEACH  BUTTER. 

Peel  the  peaches,  and  boil  the  peelings  in  water  one  hour  and 
skim  out,  then  put  in  the  peaches  and  make  like  apple  butter. 


FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES.  215 

APPLE  BUTTER. 

MES.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Boil  twelve  gallons  of  cider  down  to  four;  pare,  core  and  quarter 
the  apples;  put  them  into  the  cider  and  boil  them  three  or  four 
hours.  It  is  best  to  have  two  kettles  on  the  stove  at  once  so  as  to 
keep  one  filled  up;  as  the  apples  boil  down  in  one,  fill  from  the 
other,  and  then  keep  adding  fresh  apples  to  the  one  you  fill  from, 
stirring  continually  or  it  will  burn.  To  five  gallons  of  the  butter, 
add  ten  pounds  of  sugar  and  boil  together  one  hour.  Just  before 
taking  from  the  fire,  put  in  a  little  ground  cloves  or  cinnamon  if 
you  wish.  Pour  into  gallon  jars  and  seal  with  beef  suet  tried  out 
and  poured  over  hot. 

LEMON  BUTTER. 

MRS.   HAEKNESS. 

Three  lemons,  one  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  six  eggs  and  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut.  Squeeze  the  lemons,  being  particular  to 
use  only  the  juice,  add  the  sugar,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  four;  beat  well;  add  the  butter;  let  it  boil  up  and  pour 
it  into  a  dish. 

LEMON  BUTTER. 

MISS  S.  BLANCHAED,  POET  B.,  PA. 

The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cuiD  of  water  and  two  eggs.  Stir  sugar  and  eggs  together,  put  in 
the  water  and  lemon,  let  it  get  luke  warm,  then  strain  the  whole 
and  boil  it  about  a  minute.     Good  for  pudding  sauce  or  cakes. 

CIDER  APPLE  SAUCE. 

MES.  DE.  EAWSOX. 

Take  tart  apples,  pare  and  quarter  them  and  spread  on  a  plate 
to  dry;  they  are  better  if  dried  only  a  short  time,  not  more  than 
forty- eight  hours,  and  even  less  will  do.  Take  sufficient  cider 
for  the  quantity  of  sauce  desired,  and  dilute  it  with  water  one 
half  or  more,  if  the  cider  is  very  rich  and  strong;  set  it  on  the 
stove  and  let  it  simmer  slowly,  put  in  a  few  pieces  of  the  apple 
at  a  time  and  let  them  just  cook  through  but  not  enough  to 
break,  take  them  out  carefully  and  put  them  into  a  dish;  continue 
this  until  all  are  cooked,  then  pour  the  juice  over  them. 


216  FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES. 

TOMATO  MARMALADE. 

Two  pounds  of  tomatoes,  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  the  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Take  oif  the  skins  of  the  tomatoes, 
mix  the  sugar  with  them,  boil  one  hour,  then  add  the  lemon  and 
boil  half  an  hour;  a  few  pieces  of  ginger  root  may  be  used. 

JOHN  THOMAS. 

MRS.   C.   H.  SWEENEY. 

Plunge  fine,  ripe  tomatoes  into  boiling  water,  skin  and  slice 
them  and  remove  the  seeds.  Put  wild  plums  into  a  kettle  with 
sufficient  water  to  keep  them  from  burning,  boil  until  soft,  and 
rub  through  a  colander,  then  take  an  equal  weight  of  plums  and 
tomatoes,  add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit  and  boil  twenty 
minutes,  stirring  constantly. 

RASPBERRY  JAM. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

To  one  pound*  of  currant  juice  take  five  pounds  of  raspberries 
and  five  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  and  berries  in  layers, 
mash  them  and  let  them  stand  one  hour,  then  add  the  currant 
juice  and  boil  a  half  hour.  Blackberry  jam  is  made  in  the  same 
way. 

BAKED   PEACHES. 

MRS.   E.  P.  CHASE. 

Take  twelve  pounds  of  good,  fair  cling  peaches,  scald  them 
and  remove  the  doAvn  with  a  coarse  towel;  put  them  in  a  milk 
crock  with  four  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  water,  cover  and 
bake  four  hours;  then  put  into  quart  jars.  They  will  keep  all 
winter — try  it. 

BAKED  QUINCES. 

MRS.  C.   H.  SAVEENEY. 

Pare  and  halve  equal  quantities  of  quinces  and  sound  sweet 
apples.  Place  them  in  a  milk  crock,  first  a  layer  of  quince,  then 
of  sugar,  a  layer  of  apples,  another  layer  of  sugar  and  repeat  the 
layers  as  you  wish;  nearly  cover  with  water  and  put  a  plate  on 
the  top.    Bake  thtee  hours. 


FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES.  217 

BAKED  PEARS. 

MRS.  C,  H.  SWEENEY. 

Pare,  halve  and  core  six  pounds  of  sound,  ripe  pears,  put  them 
into  a  milk  crock  and  add  three  pounds  of  fine  white  sugar,  and 
one  cup  of  water.  Bake  three  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  These  are 
excellent. 

PRESERVED  QUINCES. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

Throw  the  quinces  into  cold  water  as  you  peel  and  quarter 
them;  boil  them  gently  in  sweetened  water  until  they  are  soft; 
then  take  them  out  of  the  liquid  and  put  them  into  a  jar  with 
their  weight  of  white  sugar,  and  let  them  stand  two  days;  then 
scald  them  with  the  sugar  and  bottle  tight. 

PRESERVED  PEARS  OR  QUINCES. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

Put  the  fruit  when  prepared  into  a  steamer,  having  first  laid  a 
napkin  on  the  bottom.  Place  it  over  boiling  water  and  steam  un- 
til tender;  then  put  it  into  bottles  and  pour  over  it  a  hot  syrup, 
which  must  be  in  readiness. 

PRESERVED  QUINCES  WITH  APPLES. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  an  equal  weight  of  sweet  apples  and  of 
quinces;  put  them  into  a  kettle  and  nearly  cover  with  water; 
^  boil  them  until  they  can  be  pierced  hy  a  straw;  take  them  out, 
add  the  sugar,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  and 
boil  to  a  syrup;  then  put  the  fruit  in  and  boil  from  three  to  five 
minptes.     Put  into  jars  and  set  away  for  use. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Take  the  parings  and  cores  of  the  quinces,  put  them  into  the 
kettle  and  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  then  take  oif  and  strain  in 
a  jelly  bag;  add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  juice  and  boil 
a  few  minutes  until  it  jellies. 


218  FHUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES. 

CURRANT   PRESERVES. 

MRS.  T.  E.  BROWN. 

Put  pound  to  pound  of  sugar  and  fruit.  Let  the  sugar  stand  on 
the  fruit  over  night.  Pour  off  the  juice  and  bring  it  to  a  boiling 
heat;  then  add  raisins  in  the  proportion  of  one  pound  of  raisins 
to  four  pounds  of  fruit,  and  boil  five  minutes;  then  put  in  the 
currants,  boiling  five  minutes;  skim  out  the  fruit  and  boil  the  juice 
until  it  will  jelly. 

PEACH  PRESERVES. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Peel  the  peaches;  take  equal  weights  of  sugar  and  fruit;  sprin- 
kle the  sugar  over  the  peaches  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  In 
the  morning,  put  all  in  the  kettle  together  and  boil  until  the 
peaches  are  clear;  then  skim  out  the  fruit  and  boil  the  juice  until  it 
is  a  rich  syrup.  Put  the  fruit  in  again  and  boil  together  five  min- 
utes; then  put  up  in  small  jars. 

PRESERVED  DAMSONS. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  plums.  Put  the  su- 
gar in  a  preserving  kettle  with  water  sufficient  to  dissolve  it;  boil 
to  a  syrup,  and  pour  over  the  plums;  let  them  stand  over  night 
and  repeat  the  same  next  morning.  The  third  day,  put  all  in  the 
kettle  together  and  boil  until  the  plums  are  cooked  through;  take 
out  the  fruit  with  a  skimmer  and  boil  the  syrup  until  thick;  pour 
it  over  the  fruit  and  put  in  small  jars  for  use. 

PINE-APPLE  PRESERVE. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

Pare  the  fruit  and  slice  it  very  thin;  then  take  one  and  a  fourth 
pounds  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  apple;  place  a  single  layer  of 
the  pineapple  and  a  layer  of  sugar  in  a  dish  alternately,  and  let  it 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  drain  off  the  sugar,  which  will 
be  a  syrup,  into  a  porcelain  kettle  and  let  it  boil;  then  put  in  the 
slices  carefully  and  boil  till  clear;  skim  out  the  fruit  and  boil  the 
syrup  until  thick;  then  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 


FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES.  219 

GRAPE  PRESERVES. 

MRS.  T.  E.  BROWN. 

Take  the  grapes  between  the  thumb  and  finger,  squeeze  out  the 
pulps,  put  them  into  a  kettle  and  set  them  on  the  stove;  boil 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and  strain  through  a  colander;  put  the  skins 
with  the  juice  and  pulps,  add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit 
and  boil  ten  minutes. 

PRESERVED  WATERMELON. 

MRS.  J.   CARPENTER. 

Take  the  thick  rind  of  a  ripe  watermelon,  cut  it  into  small  strips, 
cut  oiF  all  the  red  part  and  scrape  the  outside.  Boil  the  rind  with 
peach  leaves  and  saleratus — twelve  leaves  and  one  teaspoon  of  sal- 
eratus  to  two  quarts  of  water;  this  will  turn  them  green;  when 
tender,  take  them  out  and  put  them  into  cold  water  Avith  a  half 
tablespoon  of  alum  dissolved  in  it  to  make  them  brittle.  Let 
them  soak  one  hour;  then  rinse  them  in  clear  water  and  boil  fif- 
teen or  twenty  minutes  in  a  syrup  of  equal  parts  of  sugar  and 
water,  adding  lemons  cut  into  small  pieces,  allowing  one  lemon 
to  two  pounds  of  rind.  When  cool,  add  a  little  extract  of  ginger. 
Let  them  stand  three  or  four  days;  then  pour  the  syrup  off,  boil  it 
till  very  rich,  and  just  cover  the  rinds;  pour  on  boiling  hot. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

Pare  and  core  the  quinces,  cover  with  water,  boil  until  tender, 
and  rub  through  a  colander;  then  take  equal  weights  of  the  quince 
and  sugar  and  boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  into 
cups  and  tumblers. 

,PLUM  MARMALADE. 

After  the  juice  is  taken  from  the  plums,  rub  the  pulp  through 
a  colander;  to  this  add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  and  boil  twenty 
minutes.     Put  up  like  jelly. 

GREEN  GRAPE  JELLY  AND  MARMALADE. 

Make  like  plum,  only  do  not  use  as  much  water;  one  pint  of 
water  to  a  peck  of  grapes  is  sufficient. 


220  FR  UITS,  JELLIES,  PRESE  R  VES. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

MRS.  SNYDER,  KEW  YORK. 

Buy,  in  January  or  February,  small  sour  oranges;  put  them  into 
a  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water;  when  they  begin  to  boil,  pour 
off  the  water  and  cover  again  with  cold  water,  and  when  it  boils, 
pour  off  as  before;  do  this  three  or  four  times;  the  last  time  let 
them  boil  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw;  then  put  them  on  a 
platter,  let  them  stand  over  night,  then  peel  them.  Chop  the  peel  as 
fine  as  mince  meat;  rub  the  pulp  through  a  colander  and  mix  it  with 
the  chopped  peel;  add  their  weight  in  sugar;  then  put  all  this  into  a 
kettle  and  boil  till  thick  enough. 

CRAB  MARMALADE. 

After  the  juice  is  taken  from  the  crab  apples,  add  a  quart  of 
water  to  the  pulp  and  rub  it  through  a  colander.  To  this  add 
a  half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit,  and  the  lemons  left  from 
the  jelly.     Boil  twenty  minutes,  then  put  up  like  jelly. 

PLUM  JELLY. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

To  one  peck  of  plums  add  three  pints  of  water,  boil  until  soft, 
pour  into  a  jelly  bag  and  let  it  drip,  but  do  not  squeeze.  Take 
equal  weights  of  juice  and  sugar,  and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes or  until  it  jellies. 

PIE  PLANT  JELLY. 

G.   H. 

Take  the  pie  plant  when  young  and  juicy,  cut  it  up,  add  a  lit- 
tle water  and  boil  till  tender,  being  careful  not  to  scorch  it.  Strain 
through  a  flannel  bag,  without  squeezing;  add  lemons  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  to  three  pints  of  juice  put  two  pounds  of  sugar. 
Boil  until  it  jellies  nicely. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBNER. 

Boil  down  an  equal  quantity  of  water  and  quince  to  one-half, 
then  take  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  juice  and  boil  a  few 
minutes  until  it  jellies. 


FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES.  221 

SIBERIAN  CRAB  JELLY. 

MRS.  E.   P.  CHASE. 

Put  one  peck  of  crab  apples  into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  cover 
them  with  water,  boil  till  soft,  pour  into  a  jelly  bag  and  let  them 
drip.  Take  equal  weights  of  the  juice  and  sugar,  and  into  this, 
slice  two  lemons.  Boil  ten  minutes,  and  just  before  taking  up, 
dip  out  the  slices  of  lemon  and  reserve  them  for  the  marmalade. 
If  you  wish  your  jelly  very  clear,  strain  again. 

ORANGfe  JELLY. 

MRS.  J.    CARPENTER. 

Strain  the  juice  of  seven  oranges  and  add  sugar  till  very  sweet. 
Take  four  and  a  half  pieces  of  isinglass,  break  it  into  small 
pieces,  put  into  a  kettle  with  one  and  a  half  pints  of  water,  boil 
till  half  the  quantity;  then  mix  the  juice  and  water,  pour  into 
molds,  set  in  a  cool  place  and  eat  soon. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

MRS.  E.   P.  CHASE. 

Put  the  currants  into  the  kettle  with  about  a  half  pint  of  water 
to  keep  them  from  burning;  when  they  boil,  strain  through  a  flan- 
nel bag;  take  equal  weights  of  the  juice  and  sugar  and  boil  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes  or  until  it  jellies  nicely.  Do  not  squeeze  the 
fruit  when  you  strain  it. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

MRS.  A.  Y.  EAWSON. 

Pick  the  fruit  from  the  stems  and  put  it  into  a  small  mouthed 
stone  jar,  tie  over  it  a  thick  brown  paper,  set  it  into  a  kettle  of 
water  and  let  them  cook  one  hour  after  the  water  begins  to  boil. 
Then  strain  through  a  flannel  bag;  pour  the  juice  into  a  porcelain 
kettle  and  let  it  just  come  to  a  boil,  take  it  from  the  stove  and 
stir  in  the  sugar  slowly,  that  it  may  have  time  to  dissolve.  Pour 
into  glasses  and  let  it  cool;  when  cold  cover  with  white  paper 
dipped  in  brandy  and  laid  on  the  top  of  the  jelly,  and  tie  or  seal 
over  a  larger  piece  of  paper.  This  jelly  is  of  a  beautiful  color 
and  there  is  less  danger  of  burning  than  when  the  sugar  is  cooked, 
which  pays  for  the  extra  labor  of  picking  over  the  berries. 


222  FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

Take  one  package  of  Cox's  gelatine,  six  lemons  sliced,  one  pint 
of  cold  water,  let  them  stand  one  hour,  then  add  two  pounds  of 
white  sugar  and  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  Stir  till  well  dis- 
solved and  pour  into  molds  previously  wet  with   a  little  cold 

LEMON  JELLY. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

One  quart  of  water,  one  box  of  gelatine,  three  lemons,  one 
orange  and  oile  pound  of  sugar. 

PINE-APPLE  JELLY. 

MRS.  HARRY  WEST. 

Dissolve  a  half  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  water,  put 
it  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  add  one  cup  of  sugar, 
take  off  and  put  all  the  juice  and  part  of  the  pine-apples  in 
one  can.     Pour  into  a  mold  and  set  away  to  jelly. 

SNOW  JELLY. 

MRS.  CARPENTER. 

Soak  a  half  package  of  gelatine  in  one  teacup  of  cold  water 
for  a  half  hour,  add  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  three  teacups  of 
loaf  sugar  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  When  nearly  cold,  add 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Beat  constantly  for 
three  quarters  of  an  hour;  set  on  the  ice  and  let  it  stand  till  fro- 
zen enough  to  cut  with  a  knife. 

GELATINE. 

MISS  HATTIE   ST0"\VE. 

Dissolve  a  half  box  of  gelatine  in  one  quart  of  cold  water;  place 
it  on  the  stove  and  let  it  just  boil;  strain  through  a  cloth  and  add 
a  little  vinegar  to  make  it  tart,  flavor  with  lemon.  Serve  with  su- 
gar and  cream. 

GELATINE  JELLY. 

MRS.  M.  ANDREWS. 

Four  ounces  of  Cooper's  gelatine,  three  pints  of  water,  two 
lemons,  juice  and  peel,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  cinnamon. 


FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES.  223 

LEMON  SPONGE  OR  CUSTARD. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

Take  the  lemon  jelly  after  it  is  cold  and  beat  it  thoroughly  in- 
to the  whites  of  six  well  beaten  eggs.  Be  sure  to  beat  it  until  it 
is  white  clear  through.  Turn  it  into  molds  and  serve  with  boil- 
ed custard. 

RASPBERRY  CHARLOTTE. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Beat  five  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk,  sweeten  well  and  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Put  all  in  a  tin  pail,  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  and  stir 
till  at  the  boiling  point;  when  cold,  pour  it  over  sponge  cake 
spread  with  raspberry  jam.  The  same  custard  is  good,  when  hot, 
to  pour  over  cold  boiled  rice. 

CANDIED  ORANGE  PEEL. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Cut  your  oranges  lengthwise  and  take  out  the  pulp;  put  the 
rinds  into  a  pretty  strong  solution  of  salt  and  hard  water  for  six 
days,  then  boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  water  till  tender,  take 
them  ovit  and  drain  in  a  sieve.  Make  a  thin  syrup  of  fine  loaf 
sugar,  one  pound  to  a  quart  of  water,  put  in  the  peel  and  boil  a 
half  hour,  or  until  they  look  clear.  Have  ready  a  thick  syrup 
made  of  fine  loaf  sugar  with  as  much  water  as  will  dissolve  it,  put 
in  the  rinds  and  boil  slowly  until  you  see  the  sjrup  candy  about 
the  rinds.  Take  them  out,  grate  sugar  over  them,  drain  until  well 
dried  before  the  fire,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place  for  use. 


f>ldKI<i^g. 


Is^: 


&N  order  to  have  good  pickles  you  must  use  good  vine- 
gar— pure   cider  or  white  wine   vinegar  is  considered 
•  i-vf''^*^  best.     Vinegar  should  not  be  boiled  in  metallic  vessels, 
■^lly'  as    the    salts    produced    by   such    contact    are    poisonous. 
Stone-ware  jars  (not  glazed)  should  be  used  to  keep  pickles 
in.     In  making  a  large  quantity  at  a  time  it  is  best  to  seal 
up  a  part — in  such  cases  use  green  glass  jars. 

BRINE  FOR  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

MRS.   S.  P.   WISNEE,  CKDAR  RAPIDS. 

A  half  pound  of  alum,  three  quarts  of  salt,  one  gallon  of  vine- 
gar and  three  gallons  of  water. 

BRINE  FOR  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

MRS.   C.   P.  HOLMES. 

One  pail  of  soft  water,  one  quart  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  salt- 
petre and  two  tablespoons  of  alum;  pour  over  the  pickles  boiling 
hot;  after  a  few  days  pour  off  the  brine,  scald  and  skim. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

MRS.  J.  B.  MILLER. 

To  one  gallon  of  water  put  two  cups  of  salt;  let  this  come  to  a 
scalding  heat  and  pour  over  the  cucumbers;  let  them  stand  over 
night  and  turn  off  in  the  morning;  scald  vinegar  and  pour  over 
them,  and  let  them  stand  in  this  vinegar  twenty-four  hours;  then 
take  two  teaspoons  of  pulverized  alum  to  a  gallon  of  fresh  vinegar, 
heat  it  and  pour  over  the  pickles;  add  one  tablespoon  of  sugar 
and  spices  to  your  taste.  These  pickles  will  keep  a  long  time. 
15  225 


226  PICKLES. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

MRS.  CURTIS  BATES. 

Soak  the  cucumbers  two  days  in  a  weak  solution  of  salt  and 
water,  then  cover  them  with  boiling  vinegar  and  let  it  remain  two 
days,  then  put  them  in  jars  with  whole  spices  among  them  and 
cover  with  a  nno  vinegar,  boiling  hot,  and  sweetened  in  the  pro- 
portion of  a  teacup  of  sugar  to  a  gallon  of  vinegar.  The  vinegar 
in  which  the  pickles  are  kept  one  year  will  do  for  \}a.Q  first  vinegar 
the  next.  Use  for  spices  black  pepper,  allspice,  cloves  and  cin- 
namon; but  the  pickles  are  good  and  will  keep  without  spices. 
If  the  pickles  are  to  be  kept  through  the  following  summer,  it  is 
safer  to  seal  them  up. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

MRS.  A.  Y.  RAWSOK  AND  MRS.    HOWELL. 

Put  the  cvicumbers  into  rather  strong  salt  and  water  over  night, 
then  rinse  and  lay  in  a  jar,  and  pour  over  them  scalding  vinegar 
every  day  for  three  days;  the  third  day  take  a  teacup  of  English 
mustard  seed,  a  handful  of  allspice,  half  as  much  cloves,  a  teacup 
of  broken  cinnamon  and  half  a  cup  of  whole  black  pepper;  put 
them  into  a  small,  thin  muslin  bag  and  boil  in  fresh  vinegar  an 
hour;  put  two  or  three  red  pepper-pods  and  some  strips  of  horse- 
radish among  the  pickles.  Use  vinegar  enough  to  cover  the 
pickles;  put  into  it  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  let  it  scald,  and  pour 
over  the  pickles;  let  the  bag  of  spices  remain  in  the  jar,  and  when 
ready  to  put  away  pour  over  a  coffeecup  of  molasses,  letting  it 
settle  gradually.  This  receipt  will  pickle  a  three  gallon  jar  of 
cucumbers. 

NEW  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

MRS.   W.  BURTON. 

To  one  gallon  of  water  allow  one  tumbler  of  salt,  and  soak  the 
cucumbers  twenty-four  hours;  change  this  three  times;  drain  off 
the  salt  water  and  put  them  in  a  brass  kettle  and  cover  with  good 
vinegar;  cover  the  whole  with  horseradish  leaves;  let  them  boil 
until  the  cucumbers  have  taken  the  green  from  the  leaves.  If 
you  cannot  get  horseradish  leaves  grape  leaves  will  do. 


PICKLES.     •  227 

RIPE  CUCUMBERS. 

MRS.  S.  P.  WISNER,  CEDAR  RAPIDS. 

Pare  and  core  the  cucumbers,  and  cut  them  into  any  shape  you 
like;  lay  them  in  weak  brine  over  night;  make  your  vinegar  as 
sweet  as  you  wish  and  boil  a  few  at  a  time  until  clear;  then  boil 
down  the  syrup  a  little  and  turn  over  them.  Watermelon  rinds 
are  good  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

FRENCH  PICKLES. 

MRS.  WITHROW,  CHICAGO. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes  sliced,  and  six  large  onions 
sliced;  throw  over  them  a  teacup  of  salt  and  let  them  stand 
.twenty-four  hours;  drain,  and  boil  in  two  quarts  of  water  and  one 
quart  of  vinegar  twenty  minutes,  then  drain  again  and  take  four 
quarts  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  pound  of 
white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoons  of  ground  allspice,  the  same 
of  cloves,  cinnamon,  ginger  and  mustard,  and  a  half  tablespoon 
of  Cayenne  pepper;  put  all  together  with  the  tomatoes  and  onions 
and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  tomato  looks  clear. 
Very  fine. 

FRENCH  PICKI.es. 

MRS.  C.   P.   HOLMES  AND  MRS.  CALLANAN. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  sliced,  fifty  cucumbers  sliced, 
two  quarts  of  little  onions,  two  heads  of  cauliflower  cut  in  pieces, 
one  handful  of  horseradish,  one  box  of  cinnamon,  one  box  of 
cloves,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  black  pepper,  a  half  pound  of  ground 
mustard  and  three  pounds  of  sugar;  salt  the  vegetables  twenty- 
four  hours,  then  rinse  in  cold  water  and  put  them  into  the  kettle 
with  the  spices,  cover  with  vinegar  and  cook  half  an  hour. 

HIGHDEN  PICKLES. 

MRS.  R.  T.  AND  M.  J.  WELLSAGEE. 

Chop  fine  equal  quantities  of  green  tomutoes,  cucumbers,  onions 
and  a  few  green  peppers,  and  when  mixed  sprinkle  with  salt;  let 
them  stand  S  day,  then  pour  the  water  off  and  pour  on  boiling 
vinegar,  with  mustard  and  spices. 


228  »     PICKLES. 

PICKLED  TOMATOES. 

MRS.  S.  MERRILL. 

"Wash  green  tomatoes  and  slice  them  rather  thin.  Weigh  them 
and  to  eight  pounds  of  tomatoes  allow  three  or  four  sliced  onions, 
four  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  gallon  of  cider  vinegar.  Put  the 
vinegar  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  the  sugar;  stir,  and  when  it  boils 
remove  it  and  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  until  you  can  remove  the 
scum  without  wasting  the  vinegar;  then  add  the  onions,  two  tea- 
spoons of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  powdered  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon 
of  powdered  cloves  and  one  grated  nutmeg;  then  set  it  upon  the 
fire  and  add  the  tomatoes.  When  the  vinegar  begins  to  simmer, 
press  them  gently  down;  let  them  boll  two  or  three  minutes  and 
put  them  into  covered  jars  or,  when  cool,  into  wide-necked  bottles. 

PICKLED  TOMATOES. 

MRS.  C.  B.  SMITH,  MT.  CARROLL,  ILL. 

Take  small,  smooth  tomatoes,  not  very  ripe,  scald  them  until 
the  skin  will  slip  off  easily,  and  sprinkle  salt  over  them.  After 
they  have  stood  twenty-four  hours,  drain  off  the  juice  and  pour  on 
a  boiling  hot  pickle  composed  of  one  pouad  of  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoons of  cinnamon  and  two  teaspoons  of  cloves  to  every  quart  of 
vinegar.  Drain  off  the  liquid,  scald  it  and  pour  on  them  again,  every 
other  day  for  a  week.  They  will  require  no  further  care.  This 
is  excellent. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

MRS.  A.  Y.  RAWSON. 

Slice  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes;  add  one  cup  of  salt,  and  let 
them  stand  over  night;  drain  the  water  from  them  and  add  one 
gallon  of  vinegar,  one  large  spoon  of  allspice,  one  teaspoon  of 
cloves,  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoon  of  ground 
mustard,  four  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  grated  horse-radish,  and 
simmer  together  ten  minutes. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

MRS.  J.  B.  STEWART. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes  sliced,  and  one  dozen  onions 
sliced;  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  let  them  stand  ufitil  the  next 
day;  then  drain  them  and  use  the  following  spices:     One  box  of 


PICKLES.  339 

mustard,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  unground  cloves,  one  ounce  of 
yellow  mustard  seed,  and  one  ounce  of  allspice.  Wet  the  mus; 
tard  before  adding  it.  Put  into  a  kettle  a  layer  of  spices  and  one  of 
tomatoes  and  onions  alternately,  and  cover  with  vinegar.  Boil 
the  whole  for  a  few  minutes. 

PICKLED  CABBx\GE. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Slice  white  and  red  cabbage  very  fine,  put  into  a  jar  alternately, 
sprinkle  salt  on  each  layer;  also  whole  black  pepper,  black  mus- 
tard seed,  and  cinnamon  broken  fine;  then  cover  with  cold  vine- 
gar.    It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  twenty-four  hours, 

PICKLED  CAULIFLOWER. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Take  the  whitest  full-grown  cauliflower,  cut  off  the  thick  stock 
and  split  the  flower  into  eight  or  ten  pieces,  spread  them  on  a  large 
dish  and  sprinkle  with  salt;  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours, 
then  wash  off  the  salt,  drain  them,  put  them  into  a  flat  jar,  scald 
with  salt  and  water  (allowing  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  to  a 
quart  of  water),  cover  closely  and  let  it  stand  until  next  day;  after- 
wards drain  them  in  a  hair  sieve  and  spread  in  a  warm  place  to 
dry  for  a  day  and  night.  Then  put  them  in  a  glass  jar  and  pour 
over  them  a  pickle  that  has  been  prepared  as  follows:  Mix  to- 
gether three  ounces  of  coriander  seed,  three  ounces  of  turmeric, 
one  ounce  of  mustard  seed  and  one  ounce  of  ginger.  Pound  the 
whole  to  a  fine  powder;  put  it  into  three  quarts  of  cider  vinegar, 
set  it  by  the  fire  in  a  stone  jar  and  let  it  infuse  three  days.  These 
are  the  proportions  but  the  quantity  of  pickle  must  depend  on  the 
quantity  of  cauliflower,  which  must  be  well  covered  by  the  liquid; 
pour  it  over  the  flower  and  secure  the  jar  closely  from  the  air. 

GREEN  PEPPER  MAI^GOES. 

MRS.  E.  P.  C. 

Secure  nice  large  peppers;  cut  a  slit  in  them  and  take  out  the 
seed.  Slice  a  head  of  cabbage  very  fine,  salt  it  as  for  slaw,  and 
mix  very  thick  with  black  mustard  seed;  fill  the  peppers  with  this 
dressing  and  sew  up  the  slit.  Lay  them  in  a  jar  and  pour  over 
enough  cold  vinegar  to  cover  them. 


230  PICKLES. 

MANGOES. 

;  MRS.  E.  S.  SPEED,  EUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Take  small  nutmeg  or  musk-melons,  peel  them,  cut  out  a  slice 
and  remove  the  pulp  and  seed;  take  three  heads  of  cauliflower, 
one  peck  of  small  cucumbers,  one  quart  of  small  onions,  one  quart 
of  nasturtiums,  one  quart  of  small  green  tomatoes,  one  quart  of 
green  beans,  one  pint  of  radish  pods,  six  or  eight  carrots  cut  in 
rings  and  a  half  pint  of  mustard  seed;  cut  the  cauliflower  into 
bunches,  leaving  a  small  head  on  each;  put  the  vegetables  in  a 
large  jar,  pour  over  them  a  brine  made  of  two  gallons  of  boiling 
vi^ater,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  salt  and  a  lump  of  akim  the  size  of 
a  walnut;  leave  them  in  the  brine  two  or  three  days,  then  wash 
clear  in  water,  drain,  and  fill  each  melon,  adding  a  teaspoon  of 
mustard  seed;  adjust  the  piece  taken  out  and  tie  a  cord  around; 
place  them  in  a  jar,  and  if  any  of  the  ingredients  remain  fill  the 
space  with  them.  Take  six  quarts  of  good  cider  vinegar,  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  mustard  seed,  two  ounces  of  allspice,  a  half 
ounce  of  mace,  two  or  three  roots  of  ginger,  two  or  three  red 
peppers  and  one  tablespoon  of  pulverized  alum.  Boil  all  together, 
and  pour  while  boiling  hot  over  the  pickles. 

PICCALILLI. 

MRS.  E.  M.  PARROTT,  RUSHYILLE,  ILL. 

Mix  tomatoes,  chopped  and  drained,  with  chopped  onions,  red 
and  green  peppers  and  horseradish;  add  spices,  salt,  sugar  and  a 
little  curry  powder;  cover  with  vinegar  and  boil  one  hour. 

PICCALILLI. 

MRS.  HENRY  SCRIBXER. 

Take  one  peck  of  full  grown  tomatoes,  sliced,  and  one  pint  of 
salt,  cover  them  and  let  them  stand  twelve  or  fourteen  hours, 
then  squeeze  them  out  into  a  pint  of  fresh  water  and  let  them 
stand  a  few  hours.  Take  twelve  green  peppers  and  seven  small 
onions,  put  them  with  the  tomatoes  and  chop  all  pretty  fine,  then 
put  them  into  a  brass  kettle,  cover  with  a  weak  vinegar,  let  it  re- 
main over  the  fire  till  quite  -hot,  then  strain  ofi"  the  vinegar.  Take 
some  good  old  vinegar,  add  one  pint  of  white  mustard  seed  and 
some  grated  horseradish;  scald  it,  with  one  tablespoon  of  sugar, 


PICKLES.  231 

one  tablespoon  of  mace,  one  tablespoon  of  unground  cloves  and 
a  half  cup  of  broken  cinnamon.  Pour  it  over  the  tomatoes  in  a 
stone  jar  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

PICCALILLI. 

MRS.  MILES. 

Two  dozen  green  tomatoes,  two  dozen  large  cucumbers,  one 
dozen  small  cucumbers,  one  dozen  onions,  one  cabbage,  six 
bunches  of  celery  and  six  large  green  peppers;  chop  and  mix  well, 
stir  in  one  handful  of  salt  and  let  stand  two  hours  or  more,  then 
drain  in  a  colander.  Pour  one  quart  of  water  and  two  quarts  of 
vinegar  into  a  porcelain  kettle  and,  when  boiling,  put  in  the  mix- 
ture, a  part  at  a  time,  and  scald  ten  minutes;  skim  and  drain 
again,  place  in  small  crocks  or  jars  and  pour  on  the  following,  scald- 
ing hot  :  One  gallon  of  vinegar,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  a  half 
pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard, 
one  tablespoon  of  black  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, three  tablespoons  of  cinnamon  and  one  tablespoon  of  cloves. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

MBS.  T.  A.  PARKER,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

One  pint  of  nasturtiums,  one  pint  of  small  onions,  a  half  peck 
of  small  cucumbers,  one  quart  of  string  beans,  one  quart  of  small 
green  tomatoes,  four  small  carrots  cut  into  rings,  two  heads  of 
cauliflower,  two  ounces  of  white  mustard  seed,  two  ounces  of 
black  mustard  seed,  a  half  pint  of  salt,  a  half  pound  of  ground 
mustard,  mixed  with  eight  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  a  fourth  of  an 
ounce  of  celery  seed  and  a  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  turmeric.  Mix 
well  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

MBS.   GEO.  NOLTE,   ST.  LOUIS, 

One  cauliflower  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  dozen  small  white  on- 
ions, two  dozen  small  cucumbers,  one  quart  of  string  beans,  one 
ounce  of  black  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  of  white  mustard  seed, 
one  teaspoon  of  Cayenne  pepper,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  turme- 
ric, pieces  of  horseradish  cut  fine  and  a  half  gallon  of  vinegar,  or 
more.  Scald  the  spices  and  vinegar  together  and  pour  over  the 
vegetables  boiling  hot;  after  it  is  cold  mix  one  pound  of  mustard 
in  vinegar  and  add  to  the  pickles. 


232  SWEET  PICKLES. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

MRS.  D.  O.  FINCH. 

Two  heads  of  cauliflower,  two  dozen  small  cucumbers,  a  half 
peck  of  string  beans,  *afe  roots  of  celery,  six  green  peppers,  one 
quart  of  small  white  onions  and  a  fourth  of  a  peck  of  small  green 
tomatoes,  cut  into  small  pieces;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  them 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  drain.  Take  one  gallon  or  more  of 
vinegar,  one-fourth  pound  of  mustard  seed,  two  pots  of  French 
mustard,  one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce  of 
ground  pepper,  two  ounces  of  turmeric  and  two  ounces  of  cinna- 
mon; pour  the  vinegar  and  spices  into  a  kettle  and  let  them  come 
to  a  boil,  then  add  the  vegetables,  and  let  them  scald  till  yellow 
and  a  little  tender. 


^weet  f^idkle^. 


SWEET  PICKLE. 

MRS.  C.  B.  SMITH,  MT.  CARROLL,  ILL, 

'HERE  are  many  ways  of  making  sweet  pickles  of  fruit, 
all  of  which  are  complicated  and  tedious.  The  following 
answers  equally  for  damsons,  cherries  and  peaches; 
'(sle)  serves  every  purpose  of  an  elaborate  method;  has  good 
keeping  qualities,  and  the  advantage  of  giving  little  trouble: 
Prepare  your  fruit  as  you  would  for  preserving.  To  three 
and  a  half  or  four  pounds  of  clean  brown  sugar,  allow  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  a  half  ounce  of  cinnamon  in  the  stick,  and  cloves.  Put 
the  fruit  in  a  jar;  boil  the  vinegar  and  spices  and  pour  over  it, 
letting  it  stand  for  two  days;  then  pour  the  vinegar  off,  and  boil; 
when  hot  pour  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  it  till  clear  and  transparent. 
This  does  just  as  well  as  the  repeated  scalding  usually  recom- 
mended. 


SWEET  PICKLES.  233 

SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

•     ■  MES.  C.  H.  GETCHELIi. 

Eight  pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  a  half 
ounce  of  cloves,  a  half  ounce  of  allspice  and  a  half  ounce  of  cinna- 
mon. Peel  the  fruit  and  boil  one  and  a  half  hours;  when  partly 
cold  add  a  half  pint  of  vinegar.     Put  away  in  jars. 

SPICED  CHERRIES. 

MRS.   J.  CARPENTER. 

To  seven  pounds  of  fruit  allow  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  su- 
gar; let  them  boil  fifteen  minutes  or  a  little  more,  then  skim  out 
the  fruit  and  add  to  the  syrup  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  ounce  of 
cinnamon  and  a  half  ounce  of  cloves.  Put  the  spices  into  a  bag 
and  let  them  boil  one  hour  in  the  vinegar;  then  pour  over  the 
cherries. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

MRS.  W.  H.  MERRITT. 

Five  pounds  of  fruit,  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  one 
pint  of  vinegar;  add  cinnamon  and  cloves  (unground)  to  the 
taste.     Boil  two  hours. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

MRS.  J.  M.  OTIS. 

Five  pounds  of  currants,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
of  ground  cloves,  two  tablespoons  of  ground  cinnamon  and  a  half 
pint  of  vinegar.  Scald  the  vinegar  and  spices  together  and  pour 
over  the  fruit;  the  next  day  pour  ofi"  and  scald  again;  the  third 
day  scald  together. 

SPICED  GRAPES. 

MRS.  A.   Y.  RAWSON. 

Squeeze  the  pulps  from  the  skins,  cook  them  till  tender,  put 
them  through  a  colander  to  remove  the  seeds,  then  put  pulps  and 
skins  together  and  make  according  to  the  following  receipt: 
Seven  pounds  of  grapes,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  spice  to  the  taste 
and  one  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil  till  the  grape  skins  are  tender  and 
the  compound  thick. 


234  SWEET  PICKLES. 

SPICED  APPLES. 

MRS.   M.   K.   KELLOGG. 

Five  pounds  of  sweet  apples,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart 
of  vinegar,  three  nutmegs,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  a  little  salt. 
Boil  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  until  soft. 

SPICED  PLUMS. 

MKS.  W.  COLTON. 

One  peck  of  sorted  plums,  one  quart  of  good  vinegar,  six 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  tvvo  ounces  of  cinnamon,  a  half  ounce  of 
cloves  and  a  half  ounce  of  mace.  Boil  the  sugar  with  the  vinegar 
and  spices,  then  add  the  plums  and  boil  until  they  begin  to  be 
soft. 

SPICED  PEACHES. 

MKS.  G.  M.  HIPPEE. 

Eight  and  a  half  pounds  of  peaches,  three  pounds  of  sugar, 
one  pint  of  vinQgar,  cloves,  cinnamon  stick  and  ginger  root.  Tie 
the  spices  in  a  bag  and  boil  with  the  vinegar  and  sugar,  and  pour 
over  the  fruit.     Repeat  this  six  successive  mornings. 

PICKLED  PEACHES 

MRS.  W.  COLTON. 

Seven  pounds  of  peaches,  four  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  quart 
of  vinegar  and  spices.  Boil  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  togeth- 
er; then  put  in  a  few  of  the  peaches,  if  too  many  are  put  in  at  a 
time  some  of  them  will  get  too  soft.  When  they  begin  to  be 
soft  take  them  out  and  put  more  in,  till  all  are  done;  then  pour 
the  syrup  over  the  peaches.  If  they  begin  to  be  sour,  scald  the 
vinegar  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit  for  several  successive  days. 

PICKLED  PLUMS. 

MRS.  J.    CARPENTER. 

Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  fruit  and  vin- 
egar sufBcient  to  dissolve  the  sugar.  Boil  the  vinegar  and  sugar 
together;  skim  it  and  put  in  the  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon; 
scald  the  plums  till  tender,  then  take  them  out  and  boil  down  the 
syrup  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 


SWEET  PICKLES.  235 

PICKLED  PEARS. 

MRS.  C.  D.  SPRAGUE. 

Pare  and  halve  the  pears,  put  four  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  gal- 
lon of  vinegar  and  boil  with  cloves  and  cassia  buds,  pounded  and 
tied  in  a  rag.  Scald  the  pears  a  little,  if  hard,  as  pouring  the 
vinegar  on  does  not  soften  them. 

PICKLED  GRAPES. 

MRS.   C.  D.  SPRAGUE. 

Cut  bunches  of  not  over  ripe  grapes  and  lay  in  a  jar  with  grape 
leaves  between  the  layers.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  cold  syrup 
made  as  follows:  One  quart  of  vinegar,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  and 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace  tied  in  a  bag  and  boiled  in  the  vinegar. 

PICKLED  RAISINS. 

MRS.  M.  m'cAIN. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  raisins  till  tender  in  vinegar  enough  to  cover 
them.  Skim  the  raisins  out  and  add  to  the  vinegar  one  pound 
of  sugar.  Cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Pour  the  syrup,  boiling 
hot,  over  the  raisins. 

WATERMELON  PICKLES. 

MRS.  W.  H.  SCRIPPS,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Cut  the  melon  rind  into  strips  or  whatever  shape  desired;  make 
a  weak  solution  of  alum  and  pour  over;  let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours;  then  scald  in  clear  water  and  drain.  To  seven  pounds  of 
rind,  take  one  quart  of  good  cider  vinegar,  four  pounds  of  sugar 
and  a  half  pint  of  ginger  root;  put  in  the  rind  and  boil  till  it  looks 
clear;  then  remove  the  fruit  to  a  jar  and  boil  the  liquid  until  it 
is  a  rich  syrup. 

WATERMELON  PICKLES. 

MRS.  GRISWOLD. 

Boil  the  melon  until  you  can  stick  a  fork  through  it  readily. 
To  seven  pounds  of  fruit  take  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of 
vinegar  and  one  ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice. 
Scald  the  vinegar,  put  sugar  and  spices  in,  and  pour  over  the 
melon.     Do  this  for  three  mornings. 


f)f(l]vfK^. 


COFFEE. 


'OCHA  and  Java  are  considered  the  best,  but  with  care, 
good  coffee  can  be  made  of  cheaper  kinds,  as  it  is  much 
^._  ?^  improved  by  age.  It  is  best  to  procure  a  large  quantity 
^^^^  of  that  which  you  have  proved  to  be  good.  All  coffee. 
>  needs  to  be  looked  over  before  roasting.  If  roasted  in  a 
stove  oven,  let  it  heat  gradually,  that  the  coffee  may  dry 
a  while,  but  when  it  begins  to  roast  it  should  be  browned 
quickly  and  stirred  often  to  prevent  burning.  Kernels  should  be 
brittle  and  of  a  bright  brown  color  when  <lone;  if  allowed  to  get 
black  the  coffee  will  not  be  good;  and  when  done  should  be  put  into 
a  canister  and  covered  up  close.  It  is  better  to  brown  but  two 
pounds  at  once;  never  grind  more  than  is  to  be  used  at  one  time. 
Too  great  care  cannot  be  used  in  cleansing  the  coffee-pot  in  which 
the  coffee  is  made. 

TO  MAKE  COFFEE. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  brown  coffee  and  half  a  beaten  egg;  mix 
well  together  in  a  little  cold  water,  then  pour  in  a  quart  of  boiling 
water,  or  stir  it  in  boiling  water  in  a  coffee  boiler.  Stir  from  the 
sides  as  it  boils  up.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  pour  in  a  little  cold 
water  to  settle  it,  and  set  it  where  it  will  keep  warm  and  not  boil. 

TO  MAKE  A  LARGE  QUANTITY  OF  COFFEE. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Take  one  and  one-fourth  pints  of  ground  coffee  and  one  egg 
to  a  gallon  of  water.  This  makes  strong  coffee.  Where  coffee  is 
to  be  made  in  large  quantities,  the  coffee  can  be  put  into  bags, 
allowina:  room  for  it  to  swell,  and  boiled  in  the  water. 

237 


238  DRINKS. 

SUBSTITUTE  FOR  CREAM  IN  COFFEE. 

Beat  an  egg  to  a  froth,  add  to  it  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  and  turn  the  coffee  on  it  gradually  from  the  boiling  pot 
into  the  one  for  the  table,  in  which  it  should  be  previously  put. 
It  is  diflficult  to  distinguish  the  taste  from  fresh  cream. 

COFFEE  FOR  FIFTY  CUPS. 

MRS.  W.  CARPENTER. 

Two  quarts  of  coffee,  four  eggs,  shells  and  all;  mix  this  with  two 
quarts  of  cold  water  and  pour  on  ten  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Let 
this  boil  five  minutes.  Take  off  and  pour  in  one  cup  of  cold  water 
to  settle  it. 

TEA. 

-  It  is  impossible  to  give  an  exact  recipe  for  making  tea.  It 
varies  so  in  strength  that  one  must  be  guided  by  that  as  to  the 
quantity  used.  The  common  method  of  making  green  tea  is  to 
pour  boiling  water  on  the  leaves  and  let  them  steep  without  boil- 
ing for  five  or  ten  minutes.  The  tea-pot  should  be  well  scalded 
and  the  tea  sent  to  the  table  hot.  Some  think  heating  the  tea- 
leaves  in  the  teapot  when  dry  and  then  pouring  boiling  water  on 
is  a  superior  way  of  making  tea.  It  only  needs  to  stand  a  mo- 
ment or  two  before  using.  Black  tea,  being  coarser  than  green, 
a  larger  quantity  is  required,  and  it  is  better  for  boiling  a  few 
moments.  This  is  as  much  improved  by  cream  as  coffee  is. 
Keep  your  tea  in  tin,  close,  warm  and  dry. 

CHOCOLATE. 

MRS.  M.  ANDREWS. 

Put  four  ounces  of  chocolate  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  enough  cold 
water  to  prevent  burning.  Let  it  simmer  gently  a  few  minutes. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  one 
gill  of  cream.     Let  it  boil  gently  five  minutes. 

GINGER  BEER. 

MRS.  T.  A.  PARKER,   RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Two  ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  two  pounds  of  white  sugar,  three 
quarts  of  water  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.     Boil  these  together 


DRINKS.  339 

five  minutes;  when  nearly  cold,  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  well 
beaten  with  a  half  cup  of  flour  and  a  half  ounce  of  essence  of 
wintergreen  or  of  lemon.  Bottle  and  keep  in  a  cold  place.  Take 
two  tablespoons  of  this  syrup  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda 
for  a  tumbler  of  water;  stir  violently  and  drink.  Use  any  essence 
for  flavoring  instead  of  wintergreen  that  you  may  prefer. 

GINGER  POP. 

MRS.  J.  OARPEISTTER. 

Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,,  one  ounce  of  cream 
tartar,  one  ounce  of  ginger  and  one  lemon.  Put  all  into  a  pan 
and  pour  over  it  four  quarts  of  boiling  water;  let  it  stand  until 
lukewarm,  then  add  one  tablespoon  of  yeast,  and  essence  of  win- 
tergreen or  sassafras.     Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  bottle. 

ROOT  BEER. 

MRS.  THEO.  CARPENTER. 

Mix  three  gallons  of  molasses  with  ten  gallons  of  water;  let  it 
stand  two  hours,  then  pour  into  a  barrel  and  add  a  half  pound  of 
bruised  sarsaparilla  root,  a  half  pound  of  bruised  sassafras,  a  half 
pound  of  wintergreen  bark,  one  pint  of  yeast  and  water  to  fill  the 
barrel.     Ferment  twelve  hours  and  bottle. 

EFFERVESCING  JELLY  DRINK. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

When  jellies  become  too  old  or  acid  for  the  table,  take  one 
large  spoon  of  jelly  and  two  of  vinegar  in  a  tumbler,  mix  smooth, 
and  add  two-thirds  of  a  glass  of  water  with  a  fourth  of  a  teaspoon 
of  soda  dissolved  in  it.     A  very  pleasant  drink  in  hot  weather. 

CREAM  NECTAR. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

One  pint  of  water,  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  one  ounce  of  tar- 
taric acid,  fifteen  drops  of  lemon  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs; 
beat  the  eggs  to  a  froth  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients,  then 
bottle.  Put  a  tablespoonful  into  a  tumbler  and  fill  up  with  water; 
add  a  little  soda  to  make  it  foam.  This  is  a  delightful  drink  for 
summer. 


240  DRINKS. 

CREAM  OF  NECTAR. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Two  quarts  of  water,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  citric 
acid,  two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  froth.  Mix  the  water,  sugar  and  acid  and,  when  near 
boiling,  add  the  corn  starch  made  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water; 
as  it  boils  up  have  the  eggs  ready  and  stir  in  just  after  it  is  re- 
moved from  the  fire;  when  cold,  skim  and  bottle  for  use;  it  may 
be  flavored  when  bottled.  Two  or  three  large  spoons  of  this  in  a 
glass  of  cold  water,  with  about  a  fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  bi-car- 
bonate  of  soda,  makes  a  pleasant,  cooling  drink  for  summer.  It 
will  keep  some  weeks  in  a  cool  place. 

TO  KEEP  CIDER  SWEET. 

MRS.    S.  P.  WISNER,  CEDAR  RAPIDS. 

To  one  barrel  of  cider  add  a  half  pound  of  white  mustard  seed 
and  a  half  ounce  of  oil  of  sassafras. 

•    TO  KEEP  CIDER  SWEET. 

DR.  E.  M.  m'aFEE,  MT.  CARROLL,  ILL. 

Allow  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  rock  candy  and  a  half  pound 
of  rare  beefsteak  to  one  barrel.  Put  them  in  when  it  has  reached 
the  point  at  which  you  wish  to  keep  it. 

RASPBERRY  SHRIJB. 

Put  raspberries  into  a  pan  and  scarcely  cover  them  with  strong 
vinegar,  adding  one  pint  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice.  Scald,  skim 
and  bottle  when  cool. 

RED  RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Pour  one  pint  of  white  wine  vinegar  over  two  quarts  of  rasp- 
berries; mash  the  berries  with  a  spoon;  let  stand  over  night,  then 
strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  To  each  pint  of  the  liquor  take  one 
pound  of  loaf  sugar;  boil  five  minutes,  skim  and  bottle. 


^of\  ^M^  ^idK. 


OYSTER  TOAST. 

— M|0  SIX  OYSTERS  take  a  half  teacup  of  their  own  liquor 
^jl  and  the  same  amount  of  milk,  boil  one  minute,  season 
}^\^  ^  with  butter,  pepper   and  salt,  and  pour  over  a  slice  of 
•SSc     buttered  toast. 

f  CORN  MEAL  GRUEL. 

Two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  one  cup  of  meal,  one  teaspoon  of 
flour,  and  salt  to  the  taste,  or  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Wet  the  meal 
and  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  water  and  stir  it  into  the 
water  while  it  is  boiling.  Boil  slowly  half  an  hour,  keeping  it 
well  stirred  to  prevent  burning. 

OAT  MEAL  GRUEL. 

Mix  two  tablespoons  of  oat  meal  with  a  little  cold  water,  stir  it 
into  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes;  add  a 
little  salt  and  sugar  to  the  taste. 

SAGO  GRUEL. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  water,  two  tablespoons  of  sago,  three 
teaspoons  of  white  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  or  nut- 
meg to  the  taste,  and  a  little  salt. 

WHEAT  GRUEL. 

Tie  one  teacup  of  flour  in  a  thick  cotton  cloth,  boil  it  five  hours, 
then  dry  the  lump.  Prepare  by  grating;  mix  in  a  little  cold 
water  and  pour  into  boiling  milk  or  water,  adding  salt  to  the  taste. 
This  is  excellent  for  children  with  diarrhea. 

1 6  241 


242  FOR  THE  SICK. 

MILK  PORRIDGE. 

Mix  flour  to  a  paste  in  a  little  cold  milk;  stir  it  into  boiling 
milk  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes,  adding  a  little  salt. 

RICE  JELLY. 

Boil  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  rice  flour  with  a  half  pound  of  loaf 
sugar  in  one  quart  of  water  until  it  becomes  one  mass;  strain  off 
the  jelly  and  let  it  cool. 

BEEF  TEA. 

MIJS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Take  a  lean,  juicy  steak,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  put  it  into  a 
large-mouthed  bottle  or  glass  jar,  with  two  tablespoons  of  water; 
cork,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  over  the  fire  and  boil  three 
or  four  hours.  If  in  a  hurry,  chop  the  meat  fine  and  the  juice 
will  be  sooner  extracted. 

PANADA. 

Roll  cracker  fine,  pour  over  it  boiling  water  add  a  small  piece 
of  butter,  wine  and  nutmeg,  and  sweeten  to  the  taste. 

EGG  POP. 

\ 

MES.  SETH  MACY,  NEWPORT,  R.  I. 

Beat  the  white  of  one  ^^^  to  a  stiff  froth,  put  it  into  a  bowl 
and  add  a  teaspoon  of  fine  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  wine  or  bran- 
dy and  a  half  glass  of  milk;  beat  well  together.  This  is  very 
nourishing. 

ARROWROOT. 

Mix  one  teaspoonful  in  cold  water  and  pour  into  boiling  water; 
add  a  little  salt  and  sweeten  to  the  taste.  Some  think  a  little 
lemon  juice  or  nutmeg  an  improvement. 

WINE  WHEY. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  milk  and  water,  set  on  the  stove,  add 
wine  until  it  curdles,  let  it  stand  till  it  separates,  then  strain  and 
sweeten  to  the  taste. 


FOR  THE  SICK.  243 

WINE  JELLY. 

MRS.  "W.   H.   KAY,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

Pour  one  pint  of  cold  water  over  one  box  of  gelatine;  let  it  stand 
three  or  four  houi-s,  or  over  night;  add  to  this  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  crushed  sugar,  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  two  lemons, 
one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  one  pint  of  wine  (Sherry  is  best). 
Strain  through  flannel  and  set  to  cool,  near  or  on  ice  in  warm 
weather.    If  liked  sweeter  use  a  quarter  of  a  pound  more  of  sugar. 

WINE  JELLY. 

MRS.  P.   H.  CARPENTER. 

Pour  one  pint  of  cold  water  on  one  box  of  gelatine;  let  it 
soak  twenty  minutes,  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  pint 
of  Madeira  wine,  juice  of  two  lemons  and  one  and  three-fourths 
pounds  of  powdered  sugar.  Put  it  on  the  stove  and  let  it  boil 
five  minutes,  stirring  it  occasionally;  let  it  stand  three  minutes, 
strain  through  a  thin  muslin  bag  into  molds  and  set  away  to  cool. 

WINE  JELLY. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Pour  on  one  box  of  gelatine  a  quart  of  cold  water;  let  it  stand 
until  dissolved,  then  add  one  pint  of  hot  water,  one  pint  of  wine, 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  juice  of  two  and  one  pound  of  sugar. 

TOAST  WATER. 

Toast  two  thin  slices  of  bread  a  nice  brown,  put  them  into  a 
quart  pitcher  and  fill  with  cold  water;  cover  and  let  it  stand  a  few 
miziutes  before  it  is  used. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

MRS.   F.   R.    WEST. 

To  a  half  bushel  of  blackberries  well  mashed,  add  two  ounces  of 
cinnamon,  two  ounces  of  cloves  and  one  nutmeg.  Pulverize 
well,  rnix  and  boil  slowly  about  a  half  hour;  then  strain  or  squeeze 
the  juice  through  flannel  and,  to  each  pint  of  juice,  add  one  half 
pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Boil  another  half  hour,  cool  and  add  a 
half  gallon  of  the  best  brandy.  Dose  for  an  adult,  a  half  gill; 
for  a  child,  one  teaspoon  or  more  according  to  age. 


24A  FOR  THE  SICK. 

BLACKBERRY  SYRUP. 

MRS.  W.   S.  PRITCnARD. 

Take  berries  perfectly  ripe,  set  them  over  a  moderate  fire,  let 
them  simmer  until  they  break  in  pieces,  then  strain  through  a 
flannel  cloth.  To  each  pint  of  juice  put  one  pound  of  white 
sugar,  a  half  ounce  of  powdered  cinnamon,  a  fourth  of  an  ounce 
of  powdered  mace,  two  teaspoons  of  powdered  cloves.  Boil  the 
whole  fifteen  minutes,  strain  and  cool,  then  add  to  each  pint  of 
syrup  one  wine  glass  of  brandy.  Bottle,  cork  and  seal  it,  keep 
it  in  a  cool  place. 

BADEN  BADEN  CREAM. 

MRS.  J.   CARPENTER. 

One  coffeecup  of  wine,  one  coifeecup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a 
box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  half  cup  of  water  and  a  half  pint  of 
milk;  mix  all  together  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  strain  through 
a  sieve  and  when  cool  add  one  pint  of  rich  cream;  beat  it  thor- 
oughly and  turn  into  molds. 

DRINK  FOR  THE  SICK. 

Put  one  ounce  of  gum  arabic  and  a  lump  of  ice  into  a  large  glass, 
and  fill  it  with  water. 

SHERBET. 

Mix  and  freeze  one  pint  of  new  milk  and  one  quart  of  strong 
lemonade  well  sweetened. 

TAMARIND  DRINK. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  tamarinds  and  let  it  stand  till  cold. 
This  makes  a  good  drink  for  the  sick. 

Another  is  made  by  dissolving  a  teaspoon  of  currant  or  other 
jelly  in  a  glass  of  water.     Ice  improves  it. 


>i5{!)idiKSi<  f{]^diP5{g. 


ENGLISH  CURE  FOR  DRUNKENESS. 


HIS  recipe  comes  into  notoriety  through  the  efforts  of 
John  Vine  Hall,  who  had  fallen  into  such  habitual  drunk- 
[t^2T^^  eness  that  his  most  earnest  efforts  to  reclaim  himself 
'(M^  proved  unavailing.     He  sought  the  advice  of  an  eminent 
Iv)  physician  who  gave  him  a  prescription  which  he  followed  for 
I    several  months,  and  at  the  end  of  that  time  had  lost  all  de- 
sire for  liquor. 
The  recipe  is  as  follows:     Five  grains  of  sulphate  of  iron,  ten 
grains  of  magnesia,  eleven  drachms  of  peppermint  water  and  one 
drachm  of  spirits  of  nutmeg;  to  be  taken  twice  a  day.   This  prep- 
aration acts  as  a  stimulant  and  tonic  and  partially  supplies  the 
place  of  the  accustomed  liquor,  and  prevents  that  absolute  phys- 
ical and  moral  prostration  that  follows  a  sudden  breaking  off 
from  the  use  of  stimulating  drinks. 

EYE-WATER  RECIPE. 

MES.  C.  D.  REINKJNG, 

Cut  a  fresh  hard-boiled  egg  into  halves  while  hot,  remove  the 
yolk,  fill  the  cavity  with  white  vitriol,  close  the  egg  again,  place 
in  a  vessel  and  cover  tight  to  prevent  the  steam  from  escaping. 
Let  it  stand  ten  minutes,  then  take  off  the  shell  and  strain  the 
other  part  through  a  cloth.  Add  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  a  gill  of  rain  water. 

FOR  A  FELON. 

Spread  strong  mecurial  ointment  on  a  linen  cloth  and  apply 
when  the  sore  first  appears. 

245 


246  MEDICINAL  RECIPES. 

FOR  FELONS. 

Take  a  portion  of  the  bark  of  sweet  elder,  or  hops  will  do;  then 
put  it  with  some  sweet  cream  into  a  cup,  and  boil  a  short  time; 
then  put  in  a  lump  of  saltpetre  twice  as  larg^e  as  a  pear;  let  it 
slowly  dry  away  to  the  consistency  of  a  salve,  which  apply  to  the 
felon.  The  salt  petre  is  the  cure,  but  the  elder  bark  and  sweet 
cream  aid  in  easing  the  pain.  By  putting  in  enough  saltpetre, 
any  felon  can  be  cured  in  48  hours,  and  the  pain  will  cease  al- 
most immediately. 

FOR  SORE  NIPPLES. 

MRS.  E.  A.  C. 

Put  one  teaspoon  of  quince  seed  into  a  fourth  of  a  glass  of 
brandy.  Let  it  stand  a  few  hours  till  it  forms  a  mucilage;  then 
rub  it  on.     It  is  very  soothing  and  heals  by  using  a  few  times, 

FOR  SALT-RHEUM. 

MRS.  D.  D,  B.,  CHICAGO,  ILL. 

Get  sweet  fern;  if  it  does  not  grow  in  your  locality  you  can 
procure  it  at  the  druggist's.  Steep  and  use  it  for  a  common  drink; 
also  bathe  the  parts  affected  and  it  will  cure  you.  It  is  far  better 
than  any  doctor's  medicine. 

RING  WORM. 

Put  a  penny  into  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  let  it  remain  until  it 
becomes  green,  and  wash  the  ringworm  with  this  two  or  three 
times  a  day. 

FOR  CORNS. 

The  strongest  acetic  acid  applied  night  and  morning,  will  cure 
hard  or  soft  corns  in  a  week. 

CHILBLAINS. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Place  red-hot  coals  in  a  vessel  and  throw  upon  them  a  handful 
of  corn  meal.  Hold  the  feet  in  the  dense  smoke,  renewing  the 
coals  and  meal  till  the  pain  is  relieved.  This  has  been  known  to 
make  very  marked  cures,  when  all  other  remedies  have  failed. 


MEDICINAL  RECIPES.  247 

CALENDULA  SALVE  FOR  CAKED  BREAST. 

MRS.  DR.  H . 

Two  teaspoons  of  calendula,  two  tablespoons  of  lard  and  a  piece 
of  beeswax  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut.  Melt  beeswax  and  lard  to- 
gether, remove  from  the  fire  and  put  in  the  calendula  while  hot. 
Keep  it  covered  tight.  Spread  on  a  cloth  large  enough  to  cover 
the  breast,  with  a  flannel  over  it,  cutting  a  place  in  it  just  large 
enough  for  the  nipple  to  go  through.  Keep  on  two  hours  or  more, 
then  let  the  child  nurse  before  removing  the  cloth,  and  the  swel- 
ling will  go  down. 

TONIC. 

One  drachm  of  pulverized  Colombo,  one  drachm  of  rasp.  d.  quar- 
tia,  two  drachms  of  peruvian  bark,  one  drachm  of  orange  peel, 
one  drachm  of  ginger,  two  ounces  of  loaf  sugar  and  a  half  pint  of 
liquor.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  then  add  a  half  pint 
of  water. 

ALL-HEALING  OINTMENT. 

C.  W.  SIBLEY. 

One  part  white  rosin,  one  part  beeswax,  one  part  turpentine 
and  two  parts  of  mutton  tallow. 

LINIMENT  FOR  MAN  OR  BEAST. 

MRS.  J.  CARPENTER. 

Two  ounces  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  two  ounces  of  spirits  of 
camphor,  two  ounces  of  sweet  oil  and  one  and  a  half  ounces  of 
cedar  oil.     Apply  twice  a  day;  shake  well  before  using. 

FOR  RHEUMATISM. 

Take  equal  parts  of  the  best  oil  of  Juniper  and  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine, and  rub  the  parts  afflicted  thoroughly.  Particular  care 
should  be  taken  to  use  only  the  best  oil  and  spirits. 

POTATO  POULTICE. 

MRS.  J.   P.  FOSTER. 

Peel,  boil  and  mash  the  potatoes  fine;  put  them  in  a  thin  mus- 
lin cloth  and  apply  quite  moist.  It  is  considered  better  than 
bread  as  it  will  hold  the  heat  and  retain  the  moisture  longer. 


248  MEDICINAL  RECIPES. 

COUGH  SYRUP. 

MISS  VERA  REINKING. 

One  cup  of  hops,  one  cup  of  wild  cherry  bark,  one  cup  of  hoar- 
hound,  one  and  a  half  gills  of  tar,  one  gill  of  brandy  and  a  half 
pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Soak  the  cherry  bark  in  one  pint  of  water 
twenty-eight  hours;  put  the  hops  and  hoarhound  in  two  quarts  of 
water  and  keep  at  a  temperature  below  (but  near)  boiling  for  two 
hours;  boil  tar  with  one  pint  of  water  one  hour;  strain  the  hops 
and  hoarhound;  pour  oiF  the  tar  into  the  same  vessel;  add  sugar 
and  one  pint  of  water;  boil  until  you  have>  a  rich  syrup;  then  add 
the  cherry  and  brandy,  and  make  up  for  the  water  that  has  been 
lost. 

Caution. — Do  not  boil  the  cherry. 


COUGH  REMEDY. 


MES.  C.  C.  HOWELL.   , ^  / 


Four  drams  of  syrup  of  squills,  one  ounce.of  wild  cherry,  two 
ounces  of  paregoric  and  five  ounces  of  wine  of  tar.  Take  one 
teaspoonful  three  times  a  day.     Shake  well  before  using. 

COUGH  MIXTURE. 

Two  quarts  of  rain  water,  one  pound  of  raisins,  five  cents  worth 
of  licorice,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  rock  candy.  Boil  this  to  one 
quart  and  strain  it.  Take  two  tablespoons  three  times  daily;  add- 
ing a  little  vinegar. 

FOR  HOARSENESS. 

MRS.   J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  two  spoons  of  white  sugar,  a 
little  nutmeg  and  a  cup  of  warm  water;  mix  well  and  drink  often. 

TO  PREVENT  QUINSY. 

MRS.  CURTIS  BATES. 

Drop  one  drop  of  oil  of  pennyroyal  on  a  lump  of  sugar  and 
take  it  just  before  going  to  bed,  also  rub  the  throat  with  the  oil. 
If  done  when  the  symptoms  first  appear,  it  is  very  sure  to  prevent. 
If  one  application  does  not  cure,  repeat  it  the  next  night. 


MEDICINAL  RECIPES.  249 

CROUP  LINIMENT. 

MRS.  M.   A.  RICH. 

Equal  parts  of  camphor,  olive  oil  and  tincture  of  arnica. 

SICK  HEADACHE. 

One  teaspoon  of  finely  powdered  charcoal  in  a  a  half  tumbler 
of  water. 

TOOTH  ACHE. 

Take  equal  parts  of  alum  and  salt  pulverized  together;  put  on 
a  small  piece  of  cotton  and  insert  in  the  tooth. 

LOCK  JAW. 

Apply  a  poultice  of  scraped  beet. 

DIARRHEA. 

A  teaspoon  of  flour  mixed  in  a  tumbler  of  water  and  taken  at 
intervals  of  the  day  will  cure  diarrhea. 

FOR  CANKER  SORE  MOUTH. 
Burn  a  corn  cob  and  apply  the  ashes  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

CURE  FOR  DYSPEPSIA. 

Mix  together  equal  quantities  of  bran  and  sugar,  brown  like 
coffee,  and  take  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

CURE  FOR  A  WEN. 

Wash  it  in  common  salt,  dissolved  in   water,  every  day  and  it 
will  be  removed  in  a  short  time. 

MUSTARD  PLASTER. 

Use  whites  of  eggs  to  mix  a  mustard  plaster  and  it  will  no* 
blister. 

TO  RELIEVE  FROSTED  FEF 

To  relieve  the  intense  itching  of  frosted  ff 
of  alum  in  a  little  water,  and  bathe  the  part 
before  the  fire.     One  or  two  applications  is  i 


250  MEDICINAL  RECIPES. 

FOOD  FOR  BABIES. 

MRS.  W.  CARPENTER. 

Make  a  thin  gruel  (which  can  be  thickened  as  the  child  grows 
older),  of  Graham  flour  thoroughly  cooked  and  strained  through  a 
very  fine  sieve  or  cloth.  To  one  quart  of  gruel  add  one  tablespoon 
of  lime  water;  mix  with  this,yresA  condensed  milk  in  the  propor- 
tion of  a  teaspoonful  to  one  quart  while  the  child  is  quite  young, 
which  should  be  increased  to  a  full  tablespoonful  as  early  as  four 
months  and  afterwards  as  the  child  may  require. 

LIME  WATER. 

To  a  piece  of  lime  as  large  as  a  walnut  pour  over  one  pint  of 
boiling  water;  let  it  settle  and  then  bottle.     Cork  tight. 

FOR  WORMS  FOR  LITTLE  CHILDREN. 

DR.  EVERETT. 

Stew  pumpkin  seeds,  make  a  strong  liquid,  and  give  a  table- 
spoonful  once  a  day. 

Paroxysms  of  coughing  may  be  prevented  or  cured  by  swallow- 
ing a  little  dry  salt. 

TO  CURE  A  BURN. 

MRS.  CURTIS  BATES. 

Steep  tea  leaves,  and  bind  on  cold. 

FOR  BURNS— GOOD. 
In  one  pint  of  linseed  oil  mix  as  much  lime  water  as  it  will  cut. 

SALVE  FOR  BURNS. 

MRS.   CARPENTER. 

Two  ounces  of  Burgundy  pitch,  a  half  ounce  of  bees-wax  and 
■   ons  of  lard.     Melt  all  together,   spread  on  a  cloth 
burn;  do  not  take  it  off  till  the  burn  is  well. 

^OULTICE  FOR  BOILS. 

r  beer  makes  an  excellent  poultice  for  boils. 


MEDICINAL  RECIPES.  ^u^ 

CURE  FOR  BOILS. 

MES.   C.  H.  SWEENEY. 

Isaiah,  thirty-eighth  chapter  and  twenty-first  verse.  Go  thou 
and  do  likewise. 

TO  PREVENT  STYES. 

Bathe  the  eye  every  fifteen  minutes  in  quite  warm  water;  if 
applied  when  the  soreness  first  appears,  it  is  a  sure  preventive, 
otherwise  it  will  greatly  relieve.  Also  moisten  green  tea  leaves 
and  bind  on  the  stye. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  SALVE  FOR  EVERYTHING. 

MRS.  CARPENTER. 

Two  pounds  of  rosin,  a  half  teacup  of  mutton  tallow  after  it  is 
hard,  half  as  much  bees-wax  and  a  half  ounce  of  camphor  gum. 
Put  all  together  into  an  old  kettle  and  let  it  dissolve  and  just 
come  to  a  boil,  stirring  with  a  stick;  then  take  a  half  pail  of  warm 
water  (just  the  chill  off),  pour  it  in  and  stir  carefully  until  you  can 
get  your  hands  around  it.  Two  persons  must  each  take  half  and 
pull  like  candy  until  quite  white  and  brittle;  put  a  little  grease 
on  your  hands  to  prevent  sticking  and  keep  them  wet  all  the 
time;  wet  the  table,  roll  out  the  salve  and  cut  it  with  a  knife. 
Keep  in  a  cool  place.     * 


SiK'i'^  ^Ofy  ¥fis^  i<SiJK®i^Y. 


TO  PREVENT  COLORS  FROM  FADING. 

MRS.  J.  PARMELEE. 

.« iii5f«ay:5||^  ISSOLVE  an  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  in  one  bucket  of 
ijip"  Avater.  Put  the  dress  into  the  water  and  let  it  stay 
^"^  about  a  half  hour;  then  wring  it  out  and  dry  it  before 
washing.  Hay  water  cleanses  and  stiffens  brown  or  buff 
linen.  One  large  spoon  of  beef's  gall  to  two  buckets  of 
suds,  improves  calicoes  and  prevents  their  fading.  Make 
starch  for  black  calicoes  of  coffee  water  to  prevent  any 
whitish  appearance.  Glue  is  good  for  stiffening  calicoes.  Never 
let  your  calicoes  freeze  when  drying. 

To  prevent  calico  from  fading  while  washing,  infuse  three  gills 
of  salt  into  four  quarts  of  water;  put  the  calico  in  while  hot  and 
leave  it  till  cold.  In  this  way  the  colors  are  rendered  permanent, 
and  will  not  fade  by  subsequent  washings. 

BRAN  WATER. 

This  is  excellent  for  washing  a  delicate  material  without  fading 
it;  if  not  too  much  soiled,  the  article  can  be  cleansed  without  soap. 
Prepare  it  by  boiling  bran  in  a  bag  in  the  proportion  of  one  quart 
to  a  gallon  of  water.  Let  it  cool,  and  add  another  gallon  of 
water.     This  will  answer  for  soap  and  starch. 

TO  WASH  SWISS  MUSLIN. 

Dissolve  one  teaspoon  of  gum  Arabic  in  a  half  pint  of  water  and 
add  it  to  your  starch  when  boiling.  Wash  the  Swiss,  put  it 
through  the  starch,  and  clap  it  till  dry  enough  to  iron.  It  will 
look  as  well  as  new. 

253 


354  HINTS  FOR  THE  LAUNDRY. 

CLEAR  STARCHING. 

Many  persons  clear  starch  their  clothes.  That  is,  after  starch- 
ing and  drying,  they  rinse  quickly  through  cold  water.  This  does 
not  remove  the  stiffness  of  the  starch,  but  makes  them  glossier 
and  more  pliable. 

STARCH. 

MRS.  E.  A.  C. 

Mix  with  cold  water;  pour  on  boiling  water  till  it  thickens;  then 
add  two  teaspoons  of  sugar  and  butter  the  size  of  a  nut.  This 
gives  a  good  gloss. 

STARCH  POLISH. 

MKS.  W.  S.  PEITCHART). 

Take  equal  parts  of  white  wax  and  spermaceti;  melt  them  to- 
gether and  run  into  thin  cakes  on  plates.  A  piece  of  this  the  size 
of  a  cent  added  to  a  quart  of  prepared  starch  gives  a  lustre  to  the 
clothes  and  prevents  them  from  sticking. 

TO  REMOVE  STARCH  OR  RUST  FROM  FLAT-IRONS. 

Have  a  piece  of  yellow  beeswax  tied  in  a  coarse  cloth.  When 
the  iron  is  almost  hot  enough  to  use,  but  not  quite,  rub  it  quickly 
with  the  beeswax,  and  then  witii  a  clean,  coarse  cloth.  This  will 
remove  it  entirely. 

TO  REMOVE  FRUIT  STAINS  FROM  ANY  WHITE  GOODS. 

MRS.  A.  Y.  EAWSON. 

Take  chloride  of  soda  and  rub  on  the  spots;  wash  out  with  clear 
water  as  soon  as  the  stain  disappears,  to  prevent  the  soda  from 
eating  the  fabric.  This  is  unfailing.  For  grass  stains,  rub  fresh 
lard  on  the  spots  before  washing  and  let  them  lie  a  little  while 
that  the  lard  may  penetrate  the  cloth. 

TO  REMOVE  IRON  RUST  AND  INK  FROM  WHITE 

GOODS. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Hold  the  cloth  over  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  place  on  the  spot 
two  or  three  crystals  of  oxalic  acid  and  pour  on  boiling  water. 


HINTS  FOR   THE  LAUNDRY.  255 

TO  REMOVE  GREASE  SPOTS  FROM  SILKS  OR  WOOLENS. 

MRS.  C.  P.    HOLMES. 

Scrape  French  chalk,  lay  it  on  the  spot  and  put  it  away  for 
twenty- four  hours;  then  rub  lightly  with  a  clean  cloth  and,  if  it 
still  shows,  repeat  the  process. 

TO  RAISE  THE  SURFACE  OF  VELVET. 

Warm  a  flat-iron  moderately,  cover  it  with  a  wet  cloth  and 
hold  it  under  the  velvet;  the  vapor  arising  from  the  heated  cloth 
will  raise  the  pile  of  the  velvet,  with  the  assistance  of  a  rush- 
whisk. 

TO  REMOVE  MILDEW  FROM  LINEN. 

MRS.  E.  A.  C. 

Wet  linen  with  soft  water  and  rub  it  well  with  white  soap. 
Scrape  fine  chalk  to  a  powder  and  rub  it  well  into  the  linen;  lay 
it  on  the  grass  in  the  sunshine  and  be  careful  to  keep  it  damp 
with  soft  water;  repeat  the  process  next  day  and  the  mildew  will 
entirely  disappear. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  STAINS. 

MRS.  W.  S.  PRITCHARD. 

Apply  lemon  juice  and  salt  and  lay  the  article.in  the  sun. 
LIQUID  BLUING. 

MRS.  A.   Y.  RAWSON. 

Mix  thoroughly  one  ounce  of  pulverized  Prussian  blue,  a  half 
ounce  of  pulverized  oxalic  acid  and  one  quart  of  soft  water. 

TO  COLOR  COTTON  BLUE. 

MRS.  C.  W.  SIBLEY. 

Put  into  a  tin  vessel  two  boxes  of  indigo,  let  it  dissolve,  then 
put  in  the  goods  and  boil  them;  they  will  take  all  the  color  out  of 
the  water  and  will  not  fade. 

TO  PREVENT  FLANNEL  FROM  TURNING  YELLOW. 

MRS.  CROM.  BOWEN. 

Pieces  of  white  wax  laid  in  the  folds  of  white  flannel  or  Swiss 
muslin  will  prevent  them  from  turning  yellow. 


256  HINTS  FOR  THE  LAUNDRY. 

TO  CLEAN  AND  STIFFEN  SILK. 

MRS.  E.  P.  CHASE. 

Grate  two  or  three  large  potatoes  and  add  one  pint  of  soft  wa- 
ter; let  it  stand  one  hour,  pour  off  the  liquid  and  strain  it  through 
a  sieve;  put  in  a  half  pint  of  alcohol  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 
Apply  the  liquid  with  a  clean  sponge,  rubbing  the  soiled  part  well; 
fold  and  iron.     Be  careful  not  to  have  the  irons  too  hot. 

FOR  WASHING  OIL  CLOTHS. 

Wash  them  with  soft  flannel  and  lukewarm  water,  and  wipe 
thoroughly  dry.  To  make  extra  nice,  drop  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
milk  over  them  and  rub  them  with  a  dry  cloth.  Kerosene  rubbed 
on  oil-cloth  or  zinc  with  a  dry  cloth,  after  washing,  is  also  good. 

PREPARATION  FOR  WASHING. 

One  pound  of  potash,  two  pounds  of  sal-soda  and  six  quarts  of 
boiling  water.  Take  two-thirds  of  a  quart  to  three  pails  of  water 
and  add  one  cup  of  soft  soap. 

COMPOUND  FOR  WASHING  FLUID. 

MRS.  C.  C.  HOWELL. 

One  pound  of  unslacked  lime  and  three  pounds  of  sal-soda. 
Boil  in  six  quarts  of  rain  water,  pour  the  whole  in  a  tub,  add  four- 
teen quarts  of  water,  stir  thoroughly  and  allow  it  to  settle;  then 
bottle.  For  washing,  use  one  teacup  for  the  first  boiler,  for  each 
succeeding  boiler  a  half  teacup. 

WASHING  FLUID. 

MRS.  HASKELL. 

A  half  pound  of  unslacked  lime  (or  one  teacup),  one  pound  of 
sal-soda,  one  ounce  of  borax  and  one  gallon  of  rain-water.  Use  a 
half  teacup  of  the  fluid  to  one  boiler  of  water.  Soak  the  clothes 
over  night  in  clear  water;  put  the  fluid  into  the  water  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil;  soak  the  clothes  and  pour  the  mixture  over  them; 
boil  in  clean  water  and  rinse  twice.  The  water  the  clothes  are 
boiled  in  may  be  used  for  washing  coarse  flannels,  calicoes,  etc. 


HINTS  FOR  THE  LAUNDRY.  257 

HARD  SOAP. 

MRS.  S.  JOHNS. 

Pour  four  gallons  of  boiling  water  over  six  pounds  of  washing 
soda  and  three  pounds  of  unslacked  lime;  stir  the  mixture  well 
and  let  it  settle  until  perfectly  clear,  then  drain  off  the  water, 
add  six  pounds  of  grease  and  boil  for  two  hours,  stirring  most  of 
the  time.  If  it  should  be  too  thick,  pour  more  water  over  the 
lime  and  add  it  to  the  boiling  mixture;  it  is  well  to  add  a  handful 
of  soajD.     Perfume  as  you  please. 

HARD  SOAP. 

MRS.  CARPENTER. 

To  six  pounds  of  grease  take  six  pounds  of  sal-soda,  three  pounds 
of  unslacked  lime,  four  gallons  of  water  and  a  fourth  of  a  pound 
of  borax.  Put  the  lime  and  soda  into  a  kettle,  then  add  the  wa- 
ter; as  soon  as  it  boils  take  it  off  and  let  it  settle,  then  pour  the 
lye  off.  Put  the  grease  into  an  empty  kettle  and  melt;  when  it 
is  hot  add  the  borax  and  clear  lye,  boil  it  a  half  hour,  dip  up  a 
little  and  if  it  is  as  hard  as  tallow  when  cool,  it  is  done. 

COLD  WATER  SOAP. 

MRS.   N.  BAKER. 

Fourteen  pounds  of  rosin  bar-soap,  three  pounds  of  sal-soda, 
one  pound  of  rosin  and  eight  ounces  of  salt.  Put  these  into  six 
or  seven  gallons  of  soft  water  on  the  fire  until  dissolved,  then 
pour  into  a  barrel  and  fill  it  with  soft  water,  add  two  ounces  of 
spirits  of  turpentine  and  stir  well. 

17 


Mi^Cie^i<i<S]s[^oU^  ^^e^d^etif^'i^g. 


RAG  CARPET. 

MRS.  EMMA  MICHAEL. 

^^^  EN  POUNDS  of  fine  XXX  chain  will  make  twenty-eight 


i^ 


yards  of  carpet.     Allow  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  woolen 
'^T^  rags  to  the  yard,' and,  of  cotton  rags,  one  and  a  fourth 
v^.e)"^    pounds. 

I  TO  VENTILATE  APPLES. 

Bore  holes  in  barrel  heads  to  allow  the  moisture  to  pass  off. 

TO  PRESERVE  STOVE-PIPES. 

Rub  them  well  while  warm  (not  hot)  with  linseed  oil,  before 
putting  them  away  in  the  spring. 

TO  PREVENT  FLIES  FROM  INJURING  PICTURE 
FRAMES. 

Boil  three  or  four  onions  in  one  pint  of  water;  brush  the  frames 
over  with  the  liquid  and  no  fly  will  touch  them.  It  will  not  in- 
jure the  frames. 

TO  RESTORE  GILT  FRAMES. 

Take  one  ounce  of  cooking  soda  and  beat  it  thoroughly  with 
the  whites  of  three  eggs;  brush  out  the  dust  with  a  feather  duster, 
then  dip  a  small  paint  brush  into  the  mixture  and  rub  it  all  over 
the  gilding  into  every  tiny  crevice,  and  it  will  render  it  fresh 
and  bright. 

259 


360  MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  GREASE. 

To  erase  sewing-machine  oil  from  muslins,  soap  the  spots  and 
wash  them  in  cold  water. 

TO  CLEAN  CARPETS. 

Salt,  sprinkled  upon  the  carpet  before  sweeping,  will  make  it 
look  bright  and  clean.     This  will  also  prevent  moths. 

TO  CLEAN  FLOORS  AFTER  TAKING  UP  CARPETS. 

Take  a  dust-pan  of  damp  earth  and  sprinkle  over  the  floor,  then 
use  the  broom  as  when  scrubbing,  after  which  brush  the  dirt  up 
and  very  little  dust  will  rise. 

TO  CLEANSE  A  NEW  WOODEN  PAIL. 

Fill  the  pail  with  boiling  water  and  let  it  remain  until  cold, 
then  empty  it  and  wash  the  inside  with  a  solution  of  soda  (having 
the  water  warm)  and  a  little  lime;  after  that  scald  it  well  with 
hot  water  and  rinse  with  cold. 

SEALING-WAX  FOR  FRUIT  JARS. 

Take  eight  ounces  of  rosin,  two  ounces  of  shellac  and  half  an 
ounce  of  beeswax;  melt  the  rosin,  then  add  the  shellac  slowly, 
and  afterward  the  beeswax. 

TO  KILL  COCKROACHES. 

Mix  equal  parts  of  red  lead,  Indian  meal  and  molasses  to  a  paste, 
put  it  on  iron  plates  and  set  it  where  they  congregate. 

TO  PREVENT  BEDBUGS  FROM  REMAINING  EITHER 
IN  THE  HOUSE  OR  BEDSTEAD. 

MRS.   M.   A.  TURNER. 

Take  two  tablespoons  of  lard  and  one  ounce  of  quicksil- 
ver; beat  the  white  of  an  ^^^^i  then  stir  them  all  together.  With 
a  small  brush  or  stick  put  this  mixture  in  every  crack  or  crevice 
where  vermin  can  hide;  do  this  after  cleaning  house  and  you  will 
never  be  troubled  with  vermin.  If  you  have  them  already,  use 
corrosive  sublimate  first.  Take  off  your  rings  while  applying 
this  preparation  as  it  injures  gold. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS.  261 

TO  CLEAN  BRASS  ORNAMENTS. 

Wash  them  with  alum  boiled  in  strong  lye,  one  ounce  to  a  pint, 
and  afterwards  rub  them  with  strong  tripoli. 

TO  CLEAN  BRASS  STAIR  RODS. 

MRS.   J.  P.  FOSTBR. 

First  wash  the  rods  in  strong  soapsuds,  then  rub  them  with  rot- 
ten stone  moistened  with  alcohol.  Let  the  mixture  dry  on,  and 
rub  it  off  with  a  dry  woolen  cloth. 

FOR  CLEANING  FURNITURE. 

MRS.  SNYDER,  NEW  YORK. 

One  quart  of  lard  oil  or  olive  oil,  one  pint  of  linseed  oil,  three 
quarts  of  rain- water,  one  teaspoon  of  spirits  of  ammonia  or  enough 
to  make  the  oil  and  water  unite,  and  one  ounce  of  borax  dissolved 
in  warm  water.  Apply  with  a  woolen  cloth  and  rub  the  articles 
perfectly  dry. 

A  CLEANING  POLISH  FOR  FURNITURE. 

One  pound  of  olive  oil,  one  pound  of  rectified  oil  of  amber,  one 
pound  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  one  ounce  of  oil  of  lavender  and  a 
half  ounce  of  tincture  of  alkanet  root.  Saturate  a  piece  of  cotton 
batting  with  this  and  apply  it  to  the  wood,  then  with  a  soft  rag 
rub  well  and  wipe  off  dry.  This  will  make  old  things  new.  It 
must  be  kept  tightly  corked. 

TO  TAKE  GREASE  OUT  OF  SILKS. 

MRS.  GRAHAM. 

Take  a  lump  of  magnesia  and  rub  it  (wet)  over  the  spot,  let  it 
dry;  then  brush  the  powder  off,  and  the  spot  will  disappear.  Or 
take  a  visiting  or  other  card,  separate  it,  and  rub  the  spot  with 
the  soft  internal  part,  and  it  will  disappear  without  removing  the 
gloss  from  the  silk. 

TO  CLEx\NSE  CLOTHES,  CARPETS,  ETC. 

MRS.  M.  A.  RICH,  STERLING,  ILL. 

Three  and  a  half  quarts  of  soft  water,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
salt-petre,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  barbers'  white  soap,  a  fourth  of 
a  pound  of  alcohol  and  a  half  pound  of  ammonia. 


262  MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 

TO  CLEAN  STRAW  MATTING. 

Use  a  coarse  cloth  dipped  in  salt  and  water;  wipe  dry.  The 
salt  will  keep  the  matting  from  turning  yellow. 

TO  CLEAN  ZINC. 

MRS.  D.  D.  B.,  CHICAGO. 

Wash  the  zinc  with  soap  suds  and  wipe  it  dry.  Mix  three  spoons 
of  clear  water  and  one  teaspoon  of  oil  of  vitriol.  Take  a  clean  cloth 
and  rub  it  thoroughly  with  the  vitriol  water,  being  careful  not  to 
drop  any  on  the  carpet;  then  take  clear  water,  wash  it  and  wipe 
it  dry,  and  you  will  have  not  only  a  clear  but  a  bright  zinc. 

TO  EXTRACT  STAINS  FROM  SILVER. 

Sal-ammoniac  one  part,  vinegar  sixteen  parts.  Mix  and  use 
this  liquid  with  a  piece  of  flannel,  then  wash  the  plate  in  clean 
water. 

TO  REMOVE  PIMPLES  AND  MAKE  THE  SKIN  SMOOTH. 

Make  a  tea  of  red  clover  blossoms  and  wash  the  face  with  it 
two  or  three  times  a  day. 

TO  PRESERVE  POTATOES  TILL  SPRING. 

Put  a  quantity  of  powdered  charcoal  on  the  bottom  of  the  potato 
bin;  it  will  preserve  their  flavor  and  prevent  the  sprouts  from 
shooting  out  so  early  as  they  otherwise  would. 

TO  KEEP  THE  CURCULIO  FRO.AI  PLUM  TREES. 

DR.   J.  N.  SPEED,  RUSIIVILLE,  ILL. 

Every  morning  take  wood  ashes  and  with  a  large  spoon  throw 
them  up  into  the  trees  while  the  dew  is  on.  They  make  a  lye 
that  will  destroy  the  curculio  and  secure  a  good  crop  of  plums. 
Try  it. 

COLOGNE  WATER. 

Two  drams  of  English  oil  of  lavender,  two  drams  of  oil  of 
cloves,  two  drams  of  oil  of  bergamot,  twenty  drops  of  otto  of  rose, 
twenty  drops  of  oil  of  cinnamon,  one  dram  of  essence  of  musk  and 
one  dram  of  rectified  spirits. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS.  263 

CAMPHOR  ICE. 

MRS.   C.   GETCHELL. 

A  half  ounce  each  of  gum  camphor,  white  wax,  spermaceti  and 
almond  oil.  Mix  them  together  over  a  gentle  fire  until  dissolved, 
then  pour  into  pans  to  cool. 

PRIME  VINEGAR. 

MRS.   W.  S.   PRITCHARD. 

Mix  one  quart  of  molasses,  three  gallons  of  rain  water  and  one 
pint  of  yeast.     Let  them  ferment  and  stand  four  weeks. 

DIAMOND  CEMENT. 

MR.  JOHN  SCRIPPS,  RUSHVILLE,  ILL. 

A  half  pound  of  white  glue,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  dry,  white 
lead  and  a  quart  of  rain-water.  Put  all  in  a  vessel,  set  it  in  an- 
other of  boiling  water  till  the  glue  is  dissolved,  then  add  a  half 
pint  of  alcohol  and  boil  till  all  is  well  mixed;  bottle  it  and  cork 
well.  Before  using  it  place  it  in  warm  water  to  soften,  also  warm 
your  crockery  or  glass,  and  after  affixing  it  set  away  the  articles 
affixed  for  twenty-four  hours. 

STOVE  POLISH. 

Mix  stove  lustre  with  turpentine,  apply  it  in  the  usual  manner, 
and  the  stove  will  look  like  new. 

VARNISH  FOR  GRATES. 
Asphaltum  pitch  dissolved  in  turpemtine. 

DEATH  TO  INSECTS. 

Two  pounds  of  alum  diss^jlved  in  three  or  four  quarts  of  boiling 
water  and  applied  to  all  cracks  and  crevices,  will  keep  out  ants, 
roaches,  spiders,  bedbugs,  etc.,  etc. 

UNFAILING  CURE  FOR  COLIC  IN  HORSES. 

MR.   P.  J.  M. 

Take  one  dessert-spoon  of  copperas,  put  it  in  a  piece  of  paper, 
tie  on  a  stick  and  put  down  the  horse's  throat,  punching  until  the 
paper  breaks.     It  will  give  relief  in  a  few  minutes. 


264  MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 

TO  PURIFY  CISTERN  WATER. 

MRS.  CROM.  BOWEN. 

A  small  sack  of  charcoal  dropped  into  the  cistern  every  spring, 
will  purify  it,  and  keep  the  water  sweet  and  clean. 

ORRIS  ROOT. 
Nibble  orris  root  when  going  to  singing  school. 

TO  REMOVE  GREASE  FROM  COAT  COLLARS. 
Wash  with  a  sponge  moistened  with  hartshorn  and  water. 

DIFFERENT  USES  FOR  AMMONIA. 

No  housekeeper  should  be  without  a  bottle  of  spirits  of  ammo- 
nia, for  besides  its  medical  value,  it  is  very  desirable  for  house- 
hold purposes.  It  is  nearly  as  useful  as  soap,  and  its  cheapness 
brings  it  within  the  reach  of  all.  Put  a  teaspoon  of  ammonia  into 
a  quart  of  warm  soap-suds,  dip  in  a  flannel  cloth  and  wipe  off 
the  dust  and  fly  specks,  and  see  how  much  labor  you  can  save. 
No  scrubbing  will  be  needful. 

It  will  cleanse  and  brighten  silver  wonderfully.  With  a  pint  of 
suds  mix  a  teaspoon  of  the  spirits,  dip  in  your  silver  spoons,  forks, 
etc.,  rub  them  with  a  brush,  and  polish  with  a  chamois  skin. 

For  washing  mirrors  and  windows,  put  a  few  drops  of  ammonia 
on  a  piece  of  paper  and  it  will  readily  take  off  every  spot  or  finger 
mark  on  the  glass. 

It  will  take  out  grease  spots  from  every  fabric.  Put  on  the 
ammonia  nearly  clear,  lay  a  blotting  paper  over  the  place  and 
press  a  hot  iron  over  it  a  few  minutes.  A  few  drops  in  water  will 
clean  laces  and  whiten  them,  and  muslins  also. 

Then  it  is  a  most  refreshing  agent  at  the  toilet  table.  A  few 
drops  in  a  basin  will  make  a  better  bath  than  pure  water,  and,  if 
the  skin  is  oily,  it  will  remove  its  glossiness  and  disagreeable  odors. 
Added  to  a  foot  bath,  it  entirely  absorbs  all  obnoxious  smell  so 
often  arising  from  the  feet  in  hot  weather;  nothing  is  better  for 
cleansing  the  hair  from  dandruff  and  dust. 

For  cleansing  hair  and  nail  brushes  it  is  equally  good.  Put  a 
teaspoon  of  ammonia  into  a  pint  of  warm  water  and  shake  the 
brushes  through  the  water;  when  they  look  white,  rinse  them  in 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS.  265 

cold  water  and  put  them  in  the  sunshine  or  a  warm  place  to  dry; 
the  dirtiest  brushes  will  come  out  white  and  clean. 

For  medical  purposes  it  is  unrivalled.  For  the  headache  it  is  a 
desirable  stimulant;  and  frequent  inhaling  of  its  pungent  odors 
will  often  remove  catarrhal  cold.  There  is  no  better  remedy  for 
heart-burn  and  dyspepsia,  and  the  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  is 
especially  prepared  for  these  troubles;  ten  drops  of  it  in  a  wine- 
glass of  water  is  often  a  great  relief.  The  spirits  of  ammonia  can 
be  take  in  the  same  way,  but  it  is  not  palatable. 

AMMONIA  FOR  PLANTS. 

The  eifect  of  ammonia  on  vegetation  is  beneficial.  If  you  desire 
roses,  fuschias,  geraniums,  etc.,  to  become  more  flourishing,  try  it 
upon  them  by  adding  five  or  six  drops  to  every  pint  of  water  you 
give  them,  but  do  not  repeat  the  dose  oftener  than  once  in  five  or 
six  days,  lest  you  stimulate  them  too  highly. 

TO  REMOVE  RUST  FROM  STEEL. 

MRS.  W.  . 

Cover  the  steel  with  sweet  oil  well  rubbed  on;  in  forty-eight 
hours  use  unslacked  lime  powdered  very  fine;  rub  it  till  the  rust 
disappears.  To  prevent  rust  mix  with  fat  oil  varnish  four-fifths 
of  well  rectified  spirits  of  turpentine;  apply  it  by  means  of  a 
sponge  and  the  articles  will  retain  their  brilliancy  and  never  con- 
tract any  stains  of  rust. 

CLEANING  HAIR  BRUSHES. 

MRS.  J.  P.  FOSTER. 

Take  a  cup  of  corn  meal  and  fill  the  brush,  rubbing  gently  with 
the  hand;  as  it  absorbs  the  grease  and  dirt  shake  it  out,  and  use 
fresh  meal  till  the  brush  is  thoroughly  cleaned.  This  is  better 
than  ammonia,  as  there  is  no  water  to  injure  or  loosen  the  back 
of  the  brush. 

FOR  CLEANING  HAIR. 

MRS.  MARIA  LAIRD. 

Make  a  thick  suds  with  castile  soap  and  one  pint  of  soft  water; 
add  one  'd^'g  well  beaten,  two  tablespoons  of  ammonia  and  two 
teaspoons  of  pulverized  borax.  Bottle  it;  pour  a  little  on  the 
hair  and  rinse  it  ofi"  with  clean  water. 


266  MISCELLANE  O  US  RE  CEIPTS. 

TO  PRESERVE  AND  STRENGTHEN  THE  HAIR. 

MRS.   J.  P.   FOSTER. 

One  ounce  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda,  two  drams  of  tincture  of 
cantharides,  two  ounces  of  spirits  of  rosemary,  and  a  half  pint 
of  rosewater.  Mix  the  bi-carbonate  of  soda  with  the  rosewater, 
and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Apply  it  with  a  sponge,  rubbing 
it  well  into  the  roots  of  the  hair  until  a  lather  is  produced;  then 
rinse  with  water,  and  dry  on  a  coarse  towel. 

TO  CLEAN  MARBLE. 

MRS.  W.  . 

Make  Spanish  whiting  into  a  paste  by  moistening  with  water  in 
which  a  piece  of  washing  soda  is  dissolved;  spread  in  a  piece  of 
flannel  and  rub  it  well  on  the  marble,  repeating  the  process.  It 
should  be  washed  off  with  soap  and  water  and  the  marble  after- 
wards polished  with  a  soft  duster. 

CLEANSING  VARNISHED  PAINT. 

In  cleansing  paint  which  has  been  varnished  there  is  nothing 
better  than  weak  tea.  All  the  tea  leaves  from  several  drawings 
should  be  saved  and  boiled  over  early  in  the  morning  of  the  paint 
cleansing  day;  if  boiled  in  an  old  tin  pail  or  pan,  the  tea  can  be 
easily  strained  off  for  use.  Wet  a  flannel  in  it  and  wipe  the  oak 
grained  paint  and  you  will  be  surprised  at  its  brightness.  No 
soap  is  needed  and  no  milk.  The  tea  is  the  most  capital  deter- 
gent ever  invented.  Wipe  the  paint  with  a  soft  cloth;  you  will 
find  that  very  little  elbow  grease  is  needful.  White  varnished 
paint  is  cleansed  as  rapidly  as  the  grained. 

SOLUTION  FOR  CLEANSING  SILVER. 

MRS,  W.   S.  PRITCHARD. 

Two  quarts  of  rain  water,  two  ounces  of  cyanuret  of  potash, 
one  ounce  of  alcohol,  one  half  ounce  of  Glauber's  salts,  one  half 
ounce  of  blue  stone  pulverized,  one  ounce  of  ar.  water  spirits  of 
ammonia;  shake  well  before  using.  Before  you  begin  to  clean 
3'our  silver,  have  ready  a  basin  of  hot  soap  suds  and  a  basin  of 
clean  hot  water.  Tie  a  sponge  on  the  end  of  a  stick,  then  pour  a 
small  quantity  of  the  solution  into  a  bowl,  dip  the  sponge  into  the 
mixture  and  apply  to  the  article  of  silver,  rubbing  it  over  quick- 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS.  267 

ly,  (to  avoid  streaks),  wash  the  silver  in  the  soap  suds,  then  rinse 
in  the  clear  water  and  dry  thoroughly  with  a  soft  cloth.  As  the 
solution  is  a  rank  poison,  avoid  getting  it  into  the  spouts  of  coifee 
pots  or  any  place  where  it  cannot  be  easily  removed.  It  is  best 
to  pour  out  but  a  small  quantity  of  the  mixture  at  a  time  as  it 
is  very  volatile. 

TO  MEND  CHINA. 

Take  a  very  thick  solution  of  gum  arable  in  water,  and  stir  in 
plaster  of  Paris  until  the  mixture  becomes  of  the  proper  consist- 
ency. Apply  it  with  a  brush  to  the  fractured  edges  of  the  china, 
and  stick  them  together.  In  three  days  the  article  cannot  be 
broken  in  the  same  place.  The  whiteness  of  the  cement  renders 
it  doubly  valuable. 

WASHING  WINDOWS. 

MRS.   CHAS.  H.  GETCHELL. 

Wash  the  dressing  from  a  new  chamois  skin,  it  will  then  be 
found  very  convenient  for  washing  window  and  picture  glass  and 
mirrors,  using  clean,  warm  rain-water.  Wring  out  dry  and  wipe 
the  glass  after  washing,  and  it  will  need  no  further  polishing. 
When  done  using  wash  clean  and  hang  up  to  dry.  With  care 
one  skin  will  last  a  long  time. 

PENNYROYAL  AND  POTASH. 

If  mosquitoes  or  other  bloodsuckers  infest  our  sleeping-rooms 
at  night,  and  we  uncork  a  bottle  of  the  oil  of  pennyroyal,  these 
animals  will  leave  in  great  haste,  nor  will  they  return  so  long  as 
the  air  in  the  room  is  loaded  with  the  fumes  of  tha.t  aromatic  herb. 
If  rats  enter  the  cellar,  a  little  powdered  potash,  thrown  in  their 
holes,  or  mixed  with  meal  and  scattered  in  their  runways,  never 
fails  to  drive  them  away.  Cayenne  pepper  will  keep  the  buttery 
and  storeroom  free  from  ants  and  cockroaches.  If  a  mouse  makes 
an  entrance  into  any  part  of  your  dwellings,  saturate  a  rag  with 
Cayenne,  in  solution,  and  stuff  it  into  the  hole,  which  can  then  be 
repaired  with  either  wood  or  mortar.  No  rat  or  mouse  will  eat 
that  rag  for  the  purpose  of  opening  communications  with  a  depot 
of  supplies. — Scientific  American. 


368  MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 

CHAPPED  HANDS. 

Take  common  starch  and  grind  it  with  a  knife  until  it  is  re- 
duced to  the  smoothest  powder.  Take  a  tin  box  and  fill  it  with 
starch  thus  prepared,  so  as  to  have  it  continually  at  hand  for  use. 
Then  every  time  the  hands  are  taken  from  the  suds,  or  dish-water, 
rinse  them  thoroughly  in  clean  water,  wipe  them,  and  while  they 
are  yet  damp,  rub  a  pinch  of  the  starch  thoroughly  over  them, 
covering  the  whole  surface.  We  know  many  persons  formerly 
afflicted  with  hands  that  would  chap  until  the  blood  oozed  from 
many  minute  crevices,  completely  freed  from  the  trouble  by  the 
use  of  this  simple  remedy. 

To  rub  the  hands  thoroughly,  when  damp,  with  wheat  bran 
will  have  the  same  effect  as  the  starch.  It  is  also  an  excellent 
remedy  for  tetter  on  the  hands — will  stop  the  itching  at  once  and 
effect  a  speedy  cure. 

TO  DESTROY  MOTHS  IN  CARPETS. 

MRS.  E,  P.   CHASE. 

Wring  a  coarse  towel  out  of  clean  water,  spread  it  smoothly  over 
the  carpet  and  iron  with  a  hot  iron  changing  the  iron  often;  re- 
peat on  all  parts  of  the  carpet  suspected  of  having  moths.  It  is 
not  necessary  to  press  hard.  The  color  of  the  carpet  will  not  be 
injured  and  the  moths  will  be  destroyed  by  the  steam  from  the 
hot  iron. 

GOOD  CEMENT. 

Alum  and  plaster  of  Paris  well  mixed  with  water,  and  used  in 
a  liquid  state,  will  form  a  very  useful  cement.  It  will  be  found 
quite  handy  for  many  purposes.  It  forms  a  very  hard  composi- 
tion, and  for  fixing  the  brasses,  etc.,  on  lamps,  nothing  could  be 
better. 

TO  PREVENT  A  DOOR  FROM  CREAKING. 

Rub  on  the  hinges  a  bit  of  soap,  or  two  or  three  drops  of  ma- 
chine oil. 


I^^f)•I^x. 


Page 

BREAD  AND  YEAST— 87 

Apple  gems 10.3 

An  unfailing  yeast 88 

Aunt  Rachel's  flannel  cakes   .    .  ]0G 
Another  way,  for  cracked  wheat  112 

Batter  cakes 105 

Baking  powder  biscuit 104 

Beat  biscuit 103 

Best  mode  for  cooking  oat  meal  .112 

Bread—      89,  ^0 

Drown 94,  05 

Boiled  corn 90 

Corn 96,  97 

Graham 93,94 

Sweet 92 

Salt  rising 90 

Biscuit—       .    .     .  93,  103,  104,  105 

Fairy 104 

French 93 

Imperl.tl 93 

Milk 93 

Sour  milk 104 

Soda 104 

Unleavened l05 

Breakfast  cakes 109 

Breakfast  gems l08 

Brown  bread 94,  95 

Brown  biscuit 105 

Buckwheat  cakes       ....  106,  107 

Bunns 100,  101 

Cakes—       .    .   .  105,  100,  107,  109 

Carrie's  jug  yeast 87 

Carolina  muffins 98 

Corn  bread 96,  97,  98 

Corn  muffins 98 

Corn  griddle-cakes 107 

Corn  fritters 110 

Cracked  wheat      112 

Cream  toast 108 

Croquets 101 

Crumpets Ill 

Des  Moines  crumpets Ill 

Des  Moines  rusk 92 

Dry  yeast 88 

Egg  roll -    .    92 

Fairy  biscuit 104 

Farina  cakes 106 

Flour 87 


Page 

French   biscuit 93 

French  rolls 90,  91 

Fried  mush 98 

Fruit  gems 103 

Fritters 110 

Gems 101,  102,  103 

Graham  bread 93,  94 

Graham  yeast   bread 94 

Graham    cakes 100 

Graham  gjms 101 

Graham  muffins 99,  100 

Indian  brown  bread 94 

Imperial  biscuit 93 

Johnny-cake 97 

Jug  yeast 87,  88 

Lapland   cakes 109 

Milk  biscuit 93 

Mrs.   Hodge's  biscuit 105 

Muffins       98,  99,  100 

Mush 97,  98,  112 

Mush  biscuit 103 

Nice  Johnny-cake 97 

Nice   griddle  cakes 107 

Nice  breakfast  cakes 109 

Oat  meal  gems 101,  102 

Oat  meal,  mode  of  cooking  .    .112 

Parker  House  rolls 91 

Pearl  grit  gems 102 

Pop-overs 101 

Raspberry  shortcake 108 

Rice  gems 102,  103 

Rice  griddle   cakes 106 

Rice  fritters 110 

Rice  croquets 101 

Rice  waffles 109 

Rice  tea  cake 100 

Roval  crumpets Ill 

Roils 90,  91 

Rusks 91,  92 

Des  Moines 92 

Sweet 92 

Rye  drop  cakes 106 

Salt  rising  bread 90 

Saratoga  toast 108 

Sally  Lunn 97 

Without  yeast   ....    97 

Short-cake 108 

Soda  biscuit 104 


270 


INDEX. 


Sour  milk  biscuit 104 

Steamed  corn  bread 95 

Strawberry  short-cake 107 

Sweet  bread 92 

Sweet  rusk 92 

Swiss  bunns 100 

Unleavened  biscuit 105 

Vir£;inia  pone 102 

Waffles 109,  110 

Wheat  gems 102 

Cracked*. 112 

Whigs Ill 

Yeast— 87,  88,  89 

An  unfaiUng 88 

Carrie's  jug 87 

Dry 88 

Jug 88 

Yeast  buckwheats 107 

CAKES  AND  ICINGS— 151 

Boiled  icings 151 

Frosting 152 

General  directions 151 

Icings 151 

CONFECTIONERY- 207 

Butterscotch 209 

Candy 208,  2U9 

Caramels 208 

Chocolate  caramels  ....  207,  208 

Cocoanut  candy    208 

Cocoanut  cakes 210 

Cocoanut  kisses 210 

Cream  candy 209 

French  cream    candy 209 

Hickory-nut  drops 208 

Kisses 209,210 

Molasses  candy 208 

Vinegar  candy 208 

While   taffy   candy 209 

CREAMS  AND  FANCY  DISHES— 199 

Blanc  mange 204,  205 

Boiled  custard 203 

Charlotte  russe 204 

Chocolate  blanc  mange  ....  204 
Corn  starch  bianc  mange  .    .    .  205 

Creams 199,  200,  201,  202 

Egg 200 

Fruit 200 

Ice 201,  202 

Hamburg 201 

Italian 200 

Lemon 201 

Spanish 201 

Tapioca 199 

Vanilla ,  ...  201 

Egg  cream £00 

Floating  island 203 

French  custard 203 

Fruit  cream 200 

Hamburg  cream 201 


Page 

Ice  cream 201,  202 

Italian  cream 200 

Jelly   blanc   mange 205 

Lemon   cream 201 

Lemon  sherbet 202 

Orange  sherbet 202 

Spanish    cream 201 

Svllabub  .    , 202 

Tapioca  cream 199,200 

Thompson's  icecream 201 

Vanilla  cream 201 

Whips  ..'.... 202 

DRINKS— 237 

Chocolate 238 

Coffee 237,238 

Cream  nectar 239,  240 

Effervescing  jelly  drink  ....  239 

Ginger  beer 238 

G;nger  pop 239 

Raspberry   shrub 240 

Red   raspberry  vineger   ....  240 

Root  beer 239 

Substitute  for  cream  in  coffee  .  238 

To  keep  cider  sweet 240 

To  make  coffee _.    .  237 

To   make   a   large    quantity    of 

coffee 237 

EGGS— 57 

Another  way 58 

Baked  eggs 58 

Baked  omelet 69 

Boiled  eggs        58 

Anotlier  way 58 

Fried  eggs 57 

Fried  omelet 69 

How  to  select  and  pack  eggs  .    .  57 

Omelet 69 

Baked 59 

Fried 59 

Pickled  eggs 58 

Poached  eggs 68 

Scrambled  eggs 68 

FANCY  CAKES  FOR  PARTIES—    174 

Another  pretty  cake 175 

Gold  cake 174 

Layer  fruit  cake 175 

Piiik  cake 175 

Silver  cake 174 

FISH—      17 

About  selecting  fresh 17 

Baked 18,  19 

Baked  halibut 19 

Broiled 17,  20  22 

Smoked  salmon 20 

Boiled 17,  21 

Boiled  cod-fish 21 

Boiled  mackerel 20 

Canned  salmon 20 


INDEX, 


271 


Page 

Chowder 18 

Cod-fish  balls 21 

Cod-fish  on  toast 21 

To  prepare  for   table  ...    21 

Boiled 21 

Fried "22 

Fresh,  how  to  broil 17 

Boil 17 

Bake 18 

Chowder 18 

Fry 17 

How  to  cook  cod-fish 21 

How  to  boil  fresh 17 

To  choose  a  salt  mackerel  .    20 

To  cook  cod-fish 21 

To  choose  a  fresh  fish  ...    17 

To  pot  fresh  fish 18 

To  choose  .        17,  20 

Bake  fish IS 

Boil  fresh 17,20,21 

Broil  fish 17,  22 

Smoked  salmon  ....    20 

To  fry  fresh  cod-fish 22 

To  prepare  cod-fish  for  the  table.  21 

Salmon   trout 19 

Shad 19 

Shell-fish 22 

Smoked  Halibut 19 

Soused   mackerel 20 

FOR  THE  SICK—      241 

Arrow  root 242 

Baden  Baden  cream 244 

Beef  tea 242 

Blackberry  cordial 243 

Blackberry  syrup 244 

Corn   meal  gruel 241 

Drink  for  the  sick 244 

Egg  pop 242 

Milk  porridge 242 

Oat  meal  gruel 241 

Oyster  toast 241 

Panada    242 

Rice  jelly 242 

Sago  gruel 241 

Sherbet 244 

Tamarind  drink ........  244 

Toast  water 243 

Wheat  gruel 241 

Wine  whey 242 

Wine  jelly 243 

FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES— 211 

A  delicious  dish  of  apples  .    .    .  213 

Ambrosia 213,  214 

Apples 211,  212,213,  215 

Apple  butter 215 

Apple  meringues 213 

Apple  snow 212 

Apples  to  be  eaten  with  meat .   .213 

Baked  apples 211 

Baked  peaches 216 


Page 

Baked   pears  .    .    .    .  • 217 

Baked   quinces 216 

Boiled  apples 212 

Candied  orange   peel 223 

Canning  fruit 214 

Canned  peaches,  or  other  fruit  .  214 

Cider  apple  sauce 215 

Coddled  apples 211 

Crystal  apples 212 

Crab  marmalade 220 

Cut  apples 212 

Currant  jelly 221 

Currant  preserves 218 

General   directions 211 

Gelatine 222 

Ge'.atine  jelly 222 

Green  grape  jelly  and  marmalade  219 
Jellies—      ....211,217,221,222 

John  Thomas 216 

Lemon  butter 215 

Lemon  jelly 222 

Lemon  sponge  or  custard  .    .    .    223 

Orange  jelly 221 

Peach  butter 214 

Peach  preserves 218 

Pieplant  jelly 220 

Pine-apple  preserves 218 

Plum  marmalade 219 

Preserves—  211,212,217,218,219 

Preserved  apples 212 

Preserved  damsons 218 

Preserved  pears  or  quinces  ;    .    .  217 

Preser\'ed  quinces 217 

Preserved  quinces  with  apples  .217 

Preserved  watermelon 219 

Quince  jelly 217,  220 

Quince  marmalade 219 

Raspberry  charlotte 223 

Raspberry  jam 216 

Siberian   crab  jelly 221 

Stewed  and  baked  apples  .    .    .211 

Snow  jelly 222 

Suggestions 211,  214 

Tomato  marmalade 216 

GINGER  BREAD—       ....  194,  195 

Drop  ginger  cake 196 

Ginger  bread,  plain 195 

Ginger  cake 196 

Ginger  cookies 197 

Ginger  snaps 196,197 

Ginger  sponge  cake 195 

Soft  ginger  bread 194,  195 

Spiced  ginger  bread 195 

HINTS  FOR  THE  LAUNDRY—      253 

Bran  water 253 

Clear  starching 254 

Cold  water  soap 257 

Compound  for  washing  fluid  .    .  256 

For  washing  oil  cloths 266 

Hard  soap 257 


272 


INDEX. 


Page 

Liquid  blueing 255 

Preparation  for  washing  ....  256 

Starch 254 

Starch  poMsh 254 

To  clean  and  stiffen  silk  ....  256 

To  color  cotton  blue 255 

To  prevent  colors  from  fliding  .  253 

To  remove  ink  stains 255 

To  remove  iron  rust  and  ink  from 

white  goods 254 

'  To  remove  fruit  stains  from  white 

goods 254 

To   remove   starch  or  rust  from 

flat   irons 254 

To  wash  Swiss  muslin  ....  253 
To  prevent  flannel  from  turning 

yellow 265 

To  raise  the  surf  ice  of  velvet  .  .  255 
To  remove  grease  spots  from  silks 

or  woolens 255 

Washing  fluid 256 

LAYER  CAKES— 176 

Almond  custard  cake 179 

Cake 180 

Boston  cream  cakes 185 

Chocolate  cake 177 

Coco.inut  cake 177,  178 

Cream  cake  .    .    .    .    .    .    .  133,  184 

Cream  sponge  cake 184 

Custard  cake 179 

Icing  cake 180 

Ice  cream  cake  . 180 

Jelly  cake 182,  183 

Lemon  jelly  cake 181,182 

Lemon  or  orange  cake  .  .  .  .  181 
Mrs.  Sherman's  almond  cake  .180 
Mrs.  Speed's  layer  cake  .    .    .    .183 

Neapolitan  cake 176 

Orange  cake 180,  181 

Raisin   cake 1 76 

Roll  jelly  cake 183 

White  mountain  cake  .    .    .  178,  179 

LOAF  CAKES—       152 

Almond  cake 158 

Berwick  sponge  cake 174 

Black  cake 156 

Black  clouds 166 

Boston  pound  cake 161 

Bridgeport   cake 156 

Cheap  fruit  cake 155 

Cherry  Valley  cake 167 

Citron,  or  almond  cake   ....  159 

Clove  cake 160 

Cocoanut  cake 166 

Coffee   cake 167 

Composition  cake 166 

Corn  starch  cake 168 

Cream  cake 163 

Cream  sponge  cake 171 

Cup   cake 165 


Page 

Delicate   cake 168,  169 

Dough  cake 167 

Dover   cake 165 

Economy   cake 167 

Election  cake 152,  153 

Feather  cake 170,171 

Fig  cake 170 

French   cake 165 

French  loaf  cake  .  „ 158 

Fruit  cake 153,  154,155 

Gold  cake 162 

Harrison  cake 156 

Hickory-nut  cake  .    .    .    .      159,160 

Ice-water  sponge  cake 174 

Lady  cake 169,  170 

Lincoln  cake 171 

Lemon  cake .    .  161 

Lemon    currant   cake 158 

Lilly  cake 163 

Madison  cake 164 

Marble  cake 101,  162 

Mountain  cake 170 

Mrs.  Carpenter's  wedding  cake  .  153 
Mrs.  Dodge's  wedding  cake  .  .  153 
Mrs.  Harmon's  fruit  cake  .    .    .  163 

Mrs.  Mason's  cake 163 

Mrs.   Sibley's  raised  cake  .    .    .  157 

Number  cake 165 

Pork  cake  No.  1 158 

Pork  fruit  cake 168 

Pound  cake 160,  161 

Railroad   cake 164 

Raised  cake 156,  157 

Rich  cake 166 

Rich  coffee  cake 157 

Shrewsbury  cake 160 

Snow  cake 171 

Spice  cake 160 

Sponge  cake 171,  172,  173 

St.  Nicholas  cake 163 

Washington  cake 166 

White  clouds 166 

White   cake 167 

White   cake,  marbled 162 

White  cup  cake 165 

White  fruit   cake 155 

Willie  C.'s  birth-day  cake    .    .      162 

MEATS—       35 

Balls 42 

Beef— 35 

A  la  mode 38 

Balls            40 

Baked  tongue 41 

Broiled  steak 38 

Beef-steak  roll 39 

Beef-steak  for  the  old 40 

Beef  and  mutton  pie  ...        .43 

Beef  omelet 40 

Brine  for  curing  beef 55 

Brine  for  curing  pori:  and  ham  .  55 

Brine  for  ham 55 


INDEX. 


itn 


Page 

Broiled  ham 52 

Boiled  tongue 41 

Care  of  meat  and  drippings  .    .  36 

Corned  beef 40,  54 

Fried  ham 52 

Fried  liver 41 

Fried  salt  pork 53 

Ham  and  eggs 62 

Ham  sandwiches  ......  53 

Ham  toast      53 

Hash 43 

Hash   on  toast 43 

Hash  with  potatoes 43 

How  to  fry  dried  beef      ....  42 
How  to  keep  hams  through  sum- 
mer    56 

Irish  stew 48 

Lamb  with  rice 48 

Lard 54 

New  England  sausages  ....  54 

Mutton—       36 

Chops 47 

Croquets 48 

Fillet  of 47 

Fricassee 48 

To  cook  a  leg  of 47 

To  roast  a   shoulder  of .    .  47 

Fork  steaks 50 

Baked   with   apples  ....  53 

Chops 60 

Sausages 53 

Pig's  head  roasted 50 

Pressed  head 51 

Roast  pig 49 

Roast  leg  of  pork 49 

Roast  spare-rib 50 

Scrabble 51 

Steamed  ham 52 

Stewed  lamb  with   green  peas  .  48 

Souse 60 

To   cook  ham   .    .  ...  51 

To  boil  ham 51 

To  glaze   ham 52 

To  cook  dried  beef 42 

To  cure   hams  .......  55 

To  fry   tripe 42 

To  make  tough  beef  tender  .    .  41 

Tomato  steak 39 

To  warm  over  cold  meats  ...  42 

To  warm   ham 62 

To   prepare   lard 54 

Veal— 36 

Roast 44 

Loaf 45 

Omelet 46 

Pot-pie 46 

Sausages 47 

Mottled  veal 46 

Roast  veal 44 

Spiced   veal 45 

Scalloped  veal 46 

i8 


Page 

Shoulder   of  veal 44 

To  fry  veal  steak 44 

Veal  or  lamb   patties 45 

MEDICINAL  RECIPES- 245 

All-healing   ointment 247 

,   Babes,  food  for 250 

Boils,  poultice  for 250 

Burns,    salve   for 250 

Caked  breasts,  calendula  salve  for  247 
Calendula  salve  for  caked  breasts  247 
Canker  sore  mouth,  salve  for  .    .  249 

Corns,  for 246 

Chilblains 246 

Cough  medicines 248 

Croup  liniment 249 

Cure  for  boils 251 

Cure  for  burns 250 

Cure  for   dyspepsia 249 

Cure  for  drunkenness,  English  .  245 

Cure  for  a  wen 249 

Diarrhea 249 

Dyspepsia,  cure  for 249 

English  cure  for  drunkenness  .    .  245 

Eye  water  recipe 245 

For  burns,  good 250 

For  canker  sore  mouth  ....  249 

For  corns 246 

For  felons 245,  246 

For  sore   nipples 246 

For  salt  rheum 246 

For  hoarseness 248 

For  rheumatism 247 

Frosted  feet,  to  relieve  .    ,    .    .    .  249 

Food  for  babes 260 

Grandmother's    salve    for   every- 
thing   251 

Headache,  sick 249 

Hoarseness,  for 248 

Lime  water 250 

Liniment,  croup 249 

Liniment  for  man  or  beast  .    .    .  247 

Lock-jaw 249 

Mustard  plaster 249 

Ointment,  all-healing 247 

Plaster,    mustard 249 

Potato  poultice 247 

Poultice  for  boils 250 

Quinsy,  to  prevent 248 

Relieve   frosted   feet,  to  ...    .  249 

Rheumatism 247 

Ringworm 246 

Salt  rheum,  for 246 

Salve  for  burns 250 

Salve  for  caked  breasts,  calendula  247 
Salve  for  everything,  grandmoth- 
er's     251 

Sick  headache 249 

Sore   nipples,   for 246 

Sore  mouth,  canker 249 

Styes,  to  prevent 251 

Tonic 247 


274 


INDEX. 


Page 

Toothache 249 

Worms,  for  children  for  .    .    .    .  250 

Wen,  cure  for  a 249 

Water,  lime 250 

MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS—    .  259 

After  taking  up  carpets,  to  clean 

floors 260 

Ammonia,   different  uses  for  .    .  2(54 

Ammonia  for  plants 265 

Apples,  to  ventilate 259 

Bed-bugs,  etc.,  to  prevent  .  .  .  200 
Brass  ornaments  or  stair  rods,  to 

clean 261 

Carpet,  rag 259 

Carpets,  to  destroy  moths  in   .    .  26S 

Camphor  ice 263 

Cement,  diamond 26;^ 

Cement,   good ...  26S 

Chapped  hands 268 

Clean  carpets,  to 260 

Cleaning  polish  for  furniture  .  .  261 
Cleaning  hair  brushes,  for  .    .    .  265 

Clean  marble,  to 266 

Cleansing  varnished  pain  .  .  266 
Coat   collars,  grease  from  .    .    .  264 

Colic  in  horses 26:^ 

Cologne  water 262 

Death   to  insects 263 

Diamond  cement 263 

Different  uses  for  ammonia  .  .  264 
Door  creaking,  to  prevent  .  .  .  268 
Extract  stains  from  silver  .  .  .  262 
For  cleaning  hair  brushes  .    .    .  265 

For  cleaning  furniture 261 

Good  cement 268 

Grates,    varnish    for 263 

Grease  out  of  silk,  to  take   .    .    .  261 

Grease,  to  take  out 260 

Gilt  frames,  to  restore 259 

Hair,  for  cleansing 266 

Hands,  chapped 268 

Insects,  death  to 263 

Kill  cockroaches 260 

Make   the   skin  smooth  and    re- 
move pimples 262 

Marble,  to  clean 260 

Mend  China,  to 267 

Motlis  in  carpets,  to  destroy  .  .  268 
New  wooden  pail,  to  clean  a  .    .  260 

Orris  root 264 

Pennyroyal  and  potash    ....  267 

Prime  vinegar 263 

Rag  carpet 269 

Sealing  wax  for  fruit  jars  ....  260 
Solution  for  cleaning  silver  .    .    .  266 

Stove  polish 263 

To   clean  carpets 260 

To    clean  brass   stair-rods       .    .  261 
To  clean  brass  ornaments  ,    .    .261 
To  clean  floors   after   taking  up 
carpets 260 


Page 

To  clean  furniture 261 

To  clean  marble 266 

To  clean  straw  matting  ....  262 

To  clean  zinc 262 

To  cleanse  clothes,  carpets,  act  .  261 
To  cleanse  a  new  wooden  pail  .  260 
To  destroy  moths  in  carpets  .  .  268 
To  extract  stains  from  silver  .  .  262 
To  keep  the  curculio  from  plum 

trees 262 

To  kill  cockroaches  .....  260 

To  mend  china   . 267 

To  prevent  bed-bugs  in  the  house  260 
To  prevent  flies  injuring  picture 

frames 259 

To  prevent  a  door  from  creaking  268 
To  preserve  potatoes  till  spring  .  262 
To  preserve   and  strengthen  the 

hair 266 

To  preserve  stove  pipe 259 

To  purify  cistern  water   ....  264 
To  remove  grease  from  coat  col- 
lars     264 

To  remove  pimples  and  make  the 

skin  smooth 262 

To  remove  rust  from  steel        .    .  265 

To  restore  gilt  frames 259 

To  take  out  grease 260 

To  take  grease  out  of  silk  .    .    .  261 

To  ventilate  apples 259 

Unfailing  Cure  for  colic  in  horses  263 

Varnish  for  grates 263 

Washing  windows 267 

PICKLES— 225 

Brine  for  cucumber  pickles  .    .    .  225 

Cabbage,  pickled 229 

Cauliflower,  pickled 229 

Chow-chow 231,  232 

Cucumber  pickles 225,  226 

Cucumbers,  ripe 227 

French  pickles 227 

Green  tomato  pickles 228 

Green  pepper  mangoes 229 

Highden  pickles 227 

Mangoes •    •  230 

Mangoes,  green  pepper   ....  229 

PiccahlH 230.  231 

Pickled  cabbage 229 

Cauliflower 229 

Tomatoes 228 

Ripe  cucumber  pickles 227 

Sweet  pickles 232 

Tomatoes,  pickled 228 

PIES— 113 

Apple  pie,  chopped 121 

Apple  custard  pie 116 

Apple  florindines 116 

Apple  pie,  lemon 121 

Cheesecakes 115,116 

Chopped  apple  pie 121 


INDEX. 


275 


Page 

Cobbler,  peach 122 

Cocoanut  pie ...  116 

Cracker  pie 118 

Cream  pies 117,  118 

Cream  paste Wi 

Custard  pie 110 

Custard  apple  pie 116 

Custard  lemon 118 

Custard,  sweet  potato 122 

Delicate  pie 115 

Florindines,  apple 116 

Lemon  pie 119,120,  121 

Lemon  apple 121 

Lemon  pie  with  two  crusts       .    .119 
Lemon  pie  vvilh   three  crusts  .    .  119 

Lemon  custard 118 

Lemon  puffs 121 

Lemon  tarts 120 

Marlborough  pie 118 

Mince  meat 115 

Mock  mince  meat 114 

Mince  pie 115 

New  England  pumpkin  pie  .    .    .  122 

Paste  ....." 113 

Paste,  cream       113 

Peach  cobbler ;    .  122 

Poor  man's  pie 115 

Pumpkin  pie.  New  England    .    .  122 

Puff  paste 113 

Sliced  sweet  potato  pie 122 

Sweet  potato  custard  pie  ....  122 

Squash  pie 122 

Summer  mince  pie 115 

Vinegar  pie 116 

Washington  pie 116,  117 

POULTRY—      27 

A  dressing  for  chicken  ......    32 

Boiled  turkev 28 

Broiled  chicken 29,  30 

Broiled  praire  chicken   .    .     .    .    32 

Chicken  pie 30 

Chicken  pudding 31 

Smothered 30 

Tellied 31 

Broiled 29 

Fricasseed 29 

Fried 30,  32 

Dressing  for 32 

Duck   roast 33,  34 

Boiled 33 

Smothered 34 

Fricasseed  chicken 29 

Fried  chicken 3(1,  32 

Jellied  chicken 31 

Other  ways  (to  warm  over  turkey)  29 

Roast  turkey 28 

Roast  chicken 29 

Roast  duck 33,  34 

Roast  pigeon 33 

Roast   quail 33 

Smothered  chicken 30 


I'Rge 

Smothered  duck 34 

Stewed   prairie    chicken  ....  32 

To  select  and  prepare  poultry  .  27 

To  roast  a  turkey 28 

Turkey,  how  to  select 27 

Boiled 28 

Roasted 28 

Warmed  over 28,  29 

To  warm  over  a  turkey  ....  28 

To  fry  chicken 30 

To  make  an  old  fowl  tender  .    .  31 

To  dress  a  prairie  chicken  ...  32 

To  fry  prairie  chicken 32 

To  roast  pigeons 33 

To  boil  duck 33 

PUDDINGS— 123 

Amherst  pudding ,  139 

An    e,\cellent    pudding   without 

eggs 135 

Apple  pudding 137,  138 

Apple  sago  pudding  .' 141 

Apple  dumplings 136 

Baked  batter  pudding 132 

Baked  pudding 128 

Baked  apple  dumplings  ....  136 

Baked  English  plum 124 

Baked  flour  pudding 125 

Baked  Indian  pudding    ....  136 

Baked  potato  pudding 143 

Berry  pudding 127,  129 

Birds-nest  pudding 141 

Black  pudding 126 

Boiled  pudding 132 

Boiled  batter  pudding 133 

Boiled  bread  pudding 130 

Boiled  English  plum 123 

Boiled  flour  pudding 124 

Boiled  plum  pudding 124 

Boiled  potato  pudding 142 

Bread  pudding 131 

Bread  and  butter  pudding   .    .    .  130 

Cherry  pudding 129 

Chocolate  pudding 144 

Christmas  pudding 125 

Citron  pudding 128 

Cottage  pudding 134 

Cocoanut  pudding    ....  144,  145 

Corn,  green 142 

Cracker  pudding 124,  147 

Custard  tapioca  pudding  ....  143 

Delmonico  pudding 126 

Dumplings,  apple 136 

Eve's  pudding 138 

English  plum  pudding  .    .    .  123, 124 

Baked 124 

Boiled 123 

Farina  pudding,  ice 127 

Fig  pudding 127 

Florentine  pudding 134 

Flour  baked  pudding 125 

Flour  boiled  pudding 124 


276 


INDEX. 


Page 

Fruit  pudding  without  eggs    .    .  146 

General  remarks 122 

German  pudding 128 

Ginger  or  black  pudding  .    .    .    .126 

Green  corn  pudding 112 

Home  pudding 147 

Ice  Farina  pudding 127 

Indian  puddmg 135,  136 

Indian  pudding  without  eggs  .    .  135 

Jelly  pudding 138 

Lemon  pudding 145 

Maccaroni  pudding 130 

Minute  pudding 137 

Orange  pudding 146 

Oxford  pudding 137 

Paradise  pudding 144 

Peach  pudding 126 

Persian  pudding 133 

Plain  steamed  pudding 127 

Plum  pudding  ....  123,  124,  140 

Baked 124 

Boiled 123,124 

Cracker 124 

English 123 

Poor  man's 140 

Pop-over 142 

Potato 142 

Baked      143 

Boiled .  142 

Puffs 140,  141 

Queen  of  puddings    ....  131,  132 

Quick  pudding      129 

Rice  cups '.    .    .  140 

Rice  pudding 139,  140 

Rhyme    pudding 136 

Sago  pudding 141 

Sago  apple  pudding 141 

Sally  Lunn  pudding 134 

States  ship  pudding 129 

Steamed  pudding 133 

Steamed  plain  pudding 127 

Snow  pudding 147,  148 

Suet  pudding 125 

Sunderland  pudding 130 

Tapioca  pudding  ...        .143,  144 

Tapioca  custard 143 

Telegraph  pudding 147 

Thanksgiving  pudding 133 

Union  pudding 143 

Washington  pudding 146 

Wedding  cake  pudding    ....  128 
Whortleberry  pudding 127 

SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS—       .    .  148 

Cream  sauce 14!i 

Excellent  sauce  for  boiled  rice  .  151! 

Foam  sauce 14'.' 

Hard   sauce 148 

Hot  sauce    .    .    .  ; 14'.) 

Lemon  sauce 15(i 

.   Pudding  sauce ,  148,  149 


Page 

SAUCES  AND  SALADS—      ....  61 

Asparagus  salad fi7 

Bean  salad 68 

Bread  sauce 62 

Burnt  butter 62 

Cabbage  salad 68 

Catsups 64,  65,  66 

Celery  sauce 64 

Chicken   salad 66,  67 

Chili  sauce 63 

Cranberry  sauce ,-  .  63 

Cucumber  catsup 66 

(Jiirrant  catsup 64 

Currant  soy 65 

Drawn  butter 61 

Dressing  for  chicken  salad  with- 
out celery 67 

Essence  of  celery 64 

Egg  sauce 63 

Grape  catsup 65 

Gooseberry  catsup 65 

Lobster  salad 67 

Mint   sauce  for  lamb 62 

Mustard  sauce  for  lettuce  or  cab- 
bage    64 

Oyster  sauce 63 

Parsley  sauce 62 

Potato  salad 68 

Sauce  for   boiled  meats  ....  62 

Salads 66,  67,  68 

Sauce  for  broiled  fish 64 

Sauces 61,  62,  63.  64 

Salad  dressing 68 

Shirley  sauce 62 

To  make  curry  powder  ....  64 

Tomato  catsup 65 

Walnut  catsup 66 

White  sauce 61 

SHELL-FISH— 22 

Another  oyster  pie 25 

Broiled  oysters 24 

Clam  fritters  . 25 

Fried  oysters" 24 

Lobster  croquettes 25 

Oysters  fried 24 

Escalloped 23 

Pickled 23 

Roasted 25 

Stewed 24 

Steamed 24 

Oyster   fritters 25 

Patties 23 

Pie 22,  25 

Pickled  oysters 23 

Roasted  oysters 25 

Steamed  oysters 24 

Stewed  oysters 24 

To  fry  oysters 23 


V 


INDEX. 


277 


Page 

SMALL  CAKES— 186 

Bakers' lemon  snaps 187 

Carolina  cakes 188 

Christmas  cookies 190 

Clove  cake 1S6 

Cocoanut  cookies 190 

Cookies 189,  190 

Carolina IBS 

Christmas 190 

Cocoanut 190 

Mother's 190 

New  Years 190 

Spiced 189 

Crullers 191 

Rich 191 

Doughnuts 192,  193 

Raised 192 

Without  sugar 192 

Fried  cakes 190,  191 

Fruit  drop  cakes 186 

German  cakes 194 

Jumbles 187,  188 

Lady-fingers 188 

Lemon  snaps 187 

Little  plum  cakes 186 

Maccaroons 194 

Matrimony 193 

Motlier's  cookies 190 

New  Years  cookies 190 

Raised  doughnuts 192 

Rich  crullers 191 

Rock  cake 194 

Sand  tarts 188 

Scotch  cakes 188 

Snow  balls 193 

Spiced  cookies 189 

Spice  cakes 186 

Sponge  drop-cakes 186 

Tangle-breeches 193 

SOTJPS- 9 

An  excellent,  without   meat  .    .  11 

Balls,  force-meat    ^ 15 

Barley,  egg 10 

Bean 12 

Beef,  plain 9 

Broth,    Scotch 16 

Cauliflower 11 

Chicken  ....            14 

Chicken  and   oysters 14 

Common   meat 10 

Corn,  green 13 

Dumplings  for 15 

Egg  barley 10 

Force-meat   balls 15 

Green  pea 13 

Green  corn 13 

Gumbo,  ochre  or 16 

Meat,  common 10 

Mock  turtle 14 

Noodle 15 

Ochra  or  gumbo 16 


Page 

Oyster 13 

Oyster,  chicken  and 14 

Pea 12,  13 

Portable 15 

Potato 12 

Sago 10 

Scotch  broth 15 

Tomato 11 

Without  meat,  an  excellent  .    .  11 

SWEET  PICKLES—       232 

Apples,  spiced 234 

Cherries,  spiced 233 

Currants,   spiced 233 

Directions    for    making   sweet 

pickle 232 

Grapes,  spiced 233 

Grapes,  pickled 235 

Peaches,  spiced 234 

Peaches,  pickled 234 

Pears,  pickled 235 

Pickled  grapes 235 

Peaches    234 

Pears 235 

Plums 234 

Raisins 235 

Watermelon 235 

Raisins,  pickled 235 

Sweet  tomato  pickles 233 

Spiced  apples 234 

Cherries 233 

Currants 233 

Grapes 233 

Peaches 234 

Plums 234 

Watermelon  pickles 235 

VEGETABLES—      69 

Artichokes 69 

Asparagus 70 

Another  way  to  cook    ...  70 

Another  way  to  cook  beans  ...  71 

To  cook  egg  plant 78 

To  cook  parsnips 79 

To  cook  turnips 86 

Baked  beans 72 

Without  pork 72 

Baked  onions 78 

Baked  potatoes 81 

Baked  winter  squash 83 

Beets 70 

Beet  greens 70 

Beans—      70,  71,  72 

Lima 71 

String       70 

Bean  pods  for  pickling    ....  71 

Boiled  cabbage 73 

Boiled  potatoes 81 

Cabbage—      72,  73,  74 

Boiled 73 

Cooked  in  milk 73 

Cold-slaw 73 


278 


INDEX. 


Cabbage  dressing 73,  74 

Cream 74 

Fried 74 

Hot-slaw 74 

Cauliflower 74,  75 

Corn  fritters 76 

Corn  pudding  for  meats  ....  76 

Cooking  vegetables 69 

Cucumbers 77 

Cucumber  relish 77 

Egg  plant 77 

Another  way 78 

Fried  cabbage 7-1: 

Green  corn 77 

Green  corn  for  winter  use  ...  76 

Green  corn  cakes 76 

To  boil 77 

Greens 78 

Hulled  corn 76 

Jerusalem  artichokes 69 

Lima  and  butter  beans    ....  71 

Another  way 71 

Mashed  parsnips 80 

Mashed  potatoes 80 

Mashed  turnips 85 

Another  way 86 

Onions—       78,  79 

Baked 78 

Boiled 79 

Fried 79 

Stewed 79 

Parsnips— 79,  80 

Fritters 80 

Mashed 80 

Another  way 79 


Page 

Potatoes—      80,  81,  82 

Baked 81 

Boiled 81 

Cakes 81 

Fried 80 

Mashed 82 

Stewed  for  breakfast  ....  81 

Sweet 82 

Potato  balls — a  breakfast  dish  .  .  82 

Pressed  corn 75 

Raw  tomatoes 83 

Rules   applicable  to   cooking  all 

vegetables 69 

Salsify,  or  vegetable  oyster  ...  84 

Salsify  fried 85 

On  toast 85 

Saratogas  (fried  potatoes)    ...  SO 

Scalded  tomatoes 84 

Scalloped  tomatoes 84 

String  beans 70 

Spinach        85 

Stewed  carrots    .        75 

Stewed   potatoes 82 

Stewed  tomatoes 82 

Stuffed  tomatoes 84 

Succotash 71 

Summer  squash 82 

Sweet  potatoes 82 

To  boil  green  corn 77 

To  cook  cauliflower 75 

To  dry  Lima  beans 71 

To  preserve  corn 75 

Tomatoes 83,  84 

Tomato  fritters 81 

Young  potatoes 81 

Young  turnips,  boiled  whole  .    .  85 

Winter  squash 83 


XJSE]  TiaiiB  :be]st. 


OSWEGO 


GIVES  A  PURE  WHiTE  AND  GLOSSY  FINISH  TO  LINEN. 


joldl    Tcpy    ailE    €3-iro<[3<3i:"g 


O^we^o  rufe  ^tkfcli, 


FOB  hAWEB&lEBi  MOTE%B  ANiB  MAmWFAQW^&EMB. 


Has  always  taken  the  Premium  for  Merit  over  ALL  OTHER  Manufactures, 


gold  by  kll  G^fodei^^ 


KINGSFORD'S 


For  Puddings,  Jellies,  Custards,  Blanc  Mange,  Etc.,  Etc. 


SOLD  BY  ALL   GROCERS. 


Sole  Agent 

^-vj^j^^.  ^  506  Walnut  Street,  Clapp's  Block, 


'^  ^  E  Ml  N  ^^  '^®^P  "^^  largest  Stock,  and  make  the 

Burt's  Boots  &  Shoes.  Lowest  Cash   Prices  in  the  City. 

Jfl2  WALJVUT  STREET, 

PARTIES  SUPPLIED  ON  SHORT  NOTICE. 
Orders  by  Mail  for  Cake  or  Ice  Creatn  promptly  attended  to. 

MRS.   M.   M.  CLARK'S 

210    FIFTH    STREET, 

IDES    3ynOIlsrii]S,       -      lOW-A.. 


Latest  Styles  always  to  be  found  and  every  Article  warranted  as  Represented. 


One  of  the  most  essential  points  in  making  Cakes  or  Fancy  Pastry  is  to  be  sure 
and  get  a  good  article  of  Baking  powder.  TONE  Bro.'s  BAKING  POWER  is  used  by 
all  the  Hotels  of  the  City,  and  is  pronounced  by  hundreds  of  Cooks  throughout  the 
State,  to  be  the  healthiest  and  best  in  the  market. 

It  contains  no  Hartshorn,  Ammonia,  Tartaric  Acid,  Alum,  Terra  Alba,  or  any  of 
those  adulterations  used  in  cheap  Baking  powder. 


Xj^e  ¥one  Si'o.'^  Sakir\^  f^owdei', 
THOMAS  NAYLOR, 


DEALER  IN 


AND   PROVISIONS, 

IDES    n^^OII^ES,    IO"V7"A.. 


Do  you  want  nice  sweet  Bread?     If  so,  use  the 

©^'bs'^i.l  ^@a@t  Oa^@, 


These  Cakes  are  made  from  the  finest  materials  that  can  be 
obtained,  and  are 

Wmi 


m  giw@ 


MANUFACTURED    BY    THE 


The  wants  of  the  people  demand  the  finest  and  best  goods  in  the  market;  and  to 
this  end,  I  shall  endeavor  to  furnish  Standard  Goods.  It  is  well  known  among  deal- 
ers that  in  Baking  Powder,  Canned  Fruits  and  Flavoring  Extracts,  there  are  two  or 
more  grades  manufactured  by  the  same  firm — especially  is  this  true  of  Baking  Pow- 
der— in  which  cheap  and  worthless  ingredients  are  used  in  compounding  the  lower 
grades.  I  deal  only  in  Standard  Goods,  making  a  specialty  of  Price's,  Royal,  Dool- 
ey's,  and  Tone  Brothers';  while  in 

1   handle  Curtis  Brothers'  &  Mack's  which  have  no  superior  in    the    market.       In 

Burnett's,  which  are  not  excelled  in  the  World,  constantly  on  hand. 

In  fine  drawing  Teas,  I  make  a  specialty,  buying  direct  from  importers  in  Boston 
and  New  York.  Lovers  of  this  delicious  beverage  will  find  in  this  House,  all  grades 
of  Oolong,  Young  Hyson,  Gunpowder,  Japan,  &c.,  from  the  cheapest  to  the  best 
found  in  the  market. 

St.  Louis  and  Quincy  Flour,  the  joy  and  pride  of  all  lovers  of  good  bread,  on 
hand  and  fully  warranted. 
Soliciting  a  continuance  of  patronage, 

Respectfully, 

GXJS.    SIVEITII. 

STANDARD    FLAVORING  EXTRACTS 

"Pre-eminently  superior."  -  Parker  House,  Boston. 

"The  best  in  the  World."    -  -       Fifth  Avenue  Hotel,  N.  V. 

"Exclusively  used  for  years."  -  Continental  Hotel,  Fhila, 

"We  use  them  exclusively."  -       Sherman  House  Chicago. 

"We  find  them  the  best."  -  Southern  Hotel,  St.  Louis. 

"We  find  them  excellent."  -       Occidental  Hotel.,  San  Fran- 

\cisco. 


TO    ZIOXTSEIICEISPDERS 

The  superiority  of  these  Extracts  consist  in  their 

figpl^d  f toI%  mi  ©rial  Stetiill 

These  Extracts  are  warranted  free  from  the  poisonous  oils 

and  acids  w^hich  enter  into  the  composition  of  the 

factitious  fruit  flavors  now  in  the  market. 


A  full  line  of  the  above  Extracts  to  be  found  with 

G^us.  gii]itl),  ¥l|e  G^i^odei',  30g  Walnut  gti^ 


"MONITOR  STOVE   HOUSE."    ESTABLISHED   IN    1858. 


Why  are  the  Monitor  Cook  Stoves  the  best 
Coal  Cook  Stoves  in  use? 


DEALER  IN 

Table  and  Pocket  Cutlery,  and  House  Furnishing  Goods. 

f  The  Quickest  Bakers, 
1  f  Economical, 

They  are -^  „„„„  J   Convenient, 
I  MOS'T  i  Cleanly, 
'^^  [  Durable. 

Buy  the  Monitor  Stove  and  don't  take  any  other  kind.     Every  Stove  warranted  and  sold  by 

SIO.  1.  Dllllff ,  §0^  liKeriry  St.,  opp.  Goirfe  iQise. 

BOOTS    a,r:LC^    SIEIOES- 

LARGE  STOCK    TO  SELECT  FROM. 

ALL  THE  LEADING  MAKES  AND   STYLES. 

In  Ladies'  Shoes,  Burts,  Pingree  &  Smith,  Holbrook  &  Ludlow,  Reynolds  "Bro's  and 

other  manufacturers.     In  Children's  Shoes,  Dunbars,  SoUers  &  Co., 

Pingree  &  Smith,  and  several  other  makes. 

C-A-3L.I^   ,A.mD    se:e3    tjs. 
523    Walnut    Street,    McCain^s    Block. 

IDES  nvcoin^Es,  iow^a.. 


M 

O 


H  COMPARET   &    STARK, 

0 

P,  DEALERS    IK 

g  HOUSE  FURNISHING  HARDWARE,  g 

p^  I^IiJ^TZEHD    OOOIDS,                                 ^ 

1-4  03 
<I  Ice      Ci\eam     -Freezers.    Bird     Cages^  p 

^  s 

S  And  all  kinds  of  Kitchen  Hardware.      S 

H  '^ 

^  515  TFJiiV^FT  STREET,                       § 

;>>  o 

^  IDES  nycoiisrES,  xo^w^^.           g 


KNIGHT    BROS., 


Silks,  Laces,  Cloaks,  Shawls,  Dress  Suits, 

KID  GLOVES,  4-c, 
820  Court  Avenae,  DES    MOINES,    IOWA. 

DEALER   IN 

PURE  FLAVORING  EXTRACTS,  CHOICE  PERFUMES,  HAIR 

BRUSHES,  TOOTH   BRUSHES,  COMBS,  FRENCH 

PLATE  MIRRORS  and  TOILET  ARTICLES, 

Fiftli  Street,  3iid  Door  Nortli  of  Post- Office, 

To  the  Patrons  of  the  Ladies'  Cook  Book. 


Please  remember  that  the 
Best    Place    in    the    West 

TO    BUY 


HCOTJSEHOXjD 


CARPETS,  MIRRORS,  LAMBREQUINS, 
UPHOLSTERED  FURNITURE,  BED  ROOM  SUITES, 

And,  in  fact,  everything  needful  in  furnishing  a  Home,  is  at 

g.  #  It.  MAEBJLGM'M, 


SAMUEL  MERKILL,  J.H.MERRILL,  J.  G.  ROUNDS. 

President.  Vice  President.  Cashier. 

IDES    IMIOin^ES,    lO^SAT-^^. 


Ciapital,  $150,000.      -      •      Sm^Ihs,  §50,000. 


IDII^IECTOI^S  : 


J.  H.  MERRILL.        H.  L.  WHITMAN.        J.  R.  ROLLINS.        SAMUEL  MERRILL. 
J.  M.  OWENS.  C.  D.  REINKING.  A.  LEDERER. 

Chicago  Cor reDiwndents.— Union  National  Bank.    H.  Grecnebaum  &  Co. 

N.  T.  Correspondents.— Importers  and  Traders  National  Bank.    Gilnian,  Son  &  Co.  ' 

the;  btgst  GrRA.r)KS  ow 

Pianos  and   Organs, 

Furnished  at  reasonable  prices  for  CASH,  or  on  terms  of  easy 
monthly  payments,  by 

TME  BW.  L&WM  MEMQAMTmE   ©&,, 

x)ES  ^ynoiiTES^  io"w^ft_. 


PLUMB    BROTHERS, 

DEALERS    IN 

Silverware,  Clocks,  Spectacles  and  Ornamental  Goods, 
417  WALNUT  STREET, 

3DES   IMZOinsTES. 

OSaOOD,AV^Y]V^i^N  &  HARRIS, 

313  and  315  Walnut  Street,  Des  Moines,  Iowa, 

DEA.LERS     IN 

House  Furnishing  Goods  and  White  Goods. 
MsQt  ail  kim^a  FQweigm  aaiS  OQmmtiG  Dress  Qqq^s^ 


DR.  ^BORN, 

list,  Airist,  Catarrli,  f  Iiroat  ^  Liig  Plysidain 


AND  SPECIALIST  FOR  CHRONIC  DISEASES  GENERALLY. 


Offices  and  Laboratory:  Fourth  St.,  South  of  Aborn  House,  Des  Moines,  la. 


All  who  have  been  afflicted  for  years  or  a  life-time,  are  invited  to  call  for  a  free  consul- ' 
tation. 

Dr.  Aboin  airas  to  make  his  medical  establishment  in  every  respect  worthy  of  the 
national  reputation  he  has  established  by  his  extraordinary  success.  Des  Moines  being 
centrally  located  and  very  accessible  by  railroad  to  the  five  or  six  adjoining  States,  the 
Doctor  will  establish  at  the  capital  of  Iowa  an  Institute  where  the  afflicted  can  apply 
and  receive  the  best  medical  aid  for  a  class  of  maladies  which  often  resist  the  ordinary 
routine  of  practice. 

Dr.  Aborn  has  the  pleasure  of  referring  to  some  of  the  most  prominent  men  of  the  nation. 


No.    519    V^alnut    Street, 

DEIS    3V[OIN£:S,        -        -        lOTWA.. 


Residence.  919  Third  Street. 


Mills  &  Company, 

PUBLISHERS  AND  BOOKSELLERS, 

PRINTERS  &  LITHOGRAPHERS, 
Des   Moines,  low^a. 

Visitin<^  Cards   Wedding  Cards,  Invitations,  etc..  Printed  or  Lithographed  in 
'^      style  equal  to  anything  done  in  Chicago  or  New  York. 


«v^\ 


1-  °        ■^v.-cV         o  .^lii 


^^•^^ 


A  c   °    "    <»    *  <^. 


V        1>^      ^^        \ 


.0 


