All-  Atneric 


Cook  Bo 


Featuring  the  Favorite 
Dishes  of  Famous  Americans 


UNIVERSITY  OF 

ILLINOIS  LIBRARY 

AT  URBAttA  CHAMPAIGN 

OAK  STREET 

LIBRARY  F/CILITY 


Corner  Book  Shop 

102  Fourth  Ave. 
New  York  3,  N.  Y. 


25<fe 


The 
All- American 

COOK  BOOK 

Being  a  Collection  Chiefly  of 
Recipes  of  the  Favorite  Dishes 
of  Famous  Americans. 

Compiled  by 
GERTRUDE  FRELOVE  BREBNER 


The  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  this  book  are  to  be  devoted 
to  the  relief  of  disabled,  needy  and  unemployed  ex-service  men 
and  their  dependent  families. 

As  far  as  practicable,  all  work  of  preparing  and  selling 
the  book  is  being  done  through  the  employment  of  ex-service 
men. 

Copies  may  be  purchased  at  any  book  store  or  direct  from 
the  publishers  at  the  price  of  $1.50  per  copy,  delivered  to  any 
address  in  the  United  States. 


1922 

JUDY  PUBLISHING  COMPANY 

Chicago 


Copyright,  1922 
By  Judy  Publishing  Company 


DEDICATION 
This  volume  is  dedicated  to  the  American 
principles  of  democracy  and  progress ;  to  the  ex- 
service  men  who  fought  for  these  principles  in 
the  World  War;  to  those  of  their  number  who 
gave  their  lives;  and  to  those  also  of  their  num- 
ber, wounded,  disabled  and  needy,  now  in  our 
midst. 


The  publication  of  this  book  has 
been  made  possible  through  the 
generous  aid  of 
MR.  W.  J.  KLINGENBERG 

President  of 

Sheridan  Trust  &  Savings  Bank 

Chicago 


The  ALL-AMERICAN 
COOK    BOOK 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

Chapter  Page 

I.     Griddle  Cakes    9 

II.     Breads    15 

III.  Biscuits    21 

IV.  Sea  Foods 27 

V.     Canapes    33 

VI.     Soups    35 

VII.     Meats    . 42 

VIII.     Salads    59 

IX.     Salad  Dressings   . . . 69 

X.     Vegetables   73 

XI.     Miscellaneous    83 

XII.     Puddings    95 

XIII.  Pies   107 

XIV.  Cakes    115 

XV.     Cookies 137 

XVI.     Frozen  Desserts  and  Beverages 143 

XVII.     Jams  and  Pickles 147 

XVIII.     Confectionery    153 

XIX.     Spoon  Breads  161 

Helpful  Hints 171 


GREETINGS 


EMBASSY  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 

Rome,  January  20,  1922. 

Dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

From  over  the  sea  I  send  to  you  and  to  the 
readers  of  your  proposed  book,  my  hearty  greet- 
ings. 

Sincerely  yours, 

RICHARD  WASHBURN  CHILD. 


FOREWORD 


The  object  of  the  "All- American  Cook  Book"  is  to  assist, 
through  its  sale,  the  wounded,  the  unemployed  and  needy- 
ex-service  men,  especially  those  with  dependent  families. 

All  profits  accruing  to  the  publishers  from  the  sale  of  this 
book  will  be  under  the  careful  supervision  of  a  committee  of 
prominent  citizens  of  Chicago,  and  receipts  and  expenditures 
subject  to  audit.  This  money  will  be  given  from  time  to  time 
to  the  needy  and  dependent  families  of  ex-service  men,  which 
are  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  committee  by  the  American 
Legion  Association  of  Cook  County,  Illinois. 

It  is  intended  particularly  to  relieve  suffering  and  distress 
in  a  class  of  cases  somewhat  overlooked,  namely,  the  destitute 
families  of  ex-service  men  who  are  in  hospitals,  but  who  have 
not  yet  received  compensation  from  the  Government. 

It  is  sincerely  hoped  that  every  American  Legion  Post, 
wherever  located,  will  sell  this  book  to  carry  out  in  its  par- 
ticular locality  the  object  mentioned,  and  to  this  end  a  special 
price  will  be  named  to  the  Post  upon  application  to  the  pub- 
lishers. Profits  secured  by  a  Post  from  such  sales  are  to  be 
distributed  to  dependent  families  in  its  locality,  according  to 
the  best  judgment  of  the  Post. 

Only  through  the  courtesy  of  the  wives,  mothers,  daugh- 
ters, sisters  and  friends  of  the  men  whose  names  appear  within 
this  book  have  I  been  able  to  compile  it,  for  so  great  was 
the  response  that  I  am  encouraged  to  compile  an  annual 
edition.  From  every  country  in  the  world  I  have  received 
recipes  from  famous  Americans  who  wished  to  assist  me  in 
this  undertaking.  The  letters  and  excerpts  are  placed  in  the 
book  to  show  the  spirit  of  co-operation  and  the  personal  inter- 
est of  the  donors.  The  message  from  General  Diaz  is  one 
intended  by  him  to  be  sent  to  the  wounded  boys  in  the  U.  S.  P. 
Hospitals  throughout  the  United  States,  to  be  placed  in  the  All- 
Am  eri  can  Cook  Book. 

The  All-American  Cook  Book  has  taken  one  year  to 
compile.  There  were  twenty-five  hundred  letters  written  in 
order  to  receive  these  recipes.  Needless  to  say,  it  was  only 
a  labor  of  love,  inspired  by  the  beautiful  messages  and  thoughts 


of  the  friends  who  have  made  this  book  possible. 

This  book  has  been  realized  financially  through  the  kind- 
ness of  Mr.  W.  J.  Klingenberg,  president  of  the  Sheridan 
Trust  and  Savings  Bank  of  Chicago.  I  am  deeply  indebted 
to  him,  for,  through  his  doing  so,  we  hope  to  be  able  to  relieve 
many  cases  of  suffering  and  destitution  throughout  the  United 
States.  Also  to  Mr.  James  L.  Crowder  and  Mrs.  William  G. 
Zetsche  I  owe  a  great  deal  of  thanks  as  interested  friends  and 
advisers. 

May  the  American  people  enjoy  reading  the  All-American 
Cook  Book  as  much  as  I  have  enjoyed  compiling  it. 

GERTRUDE  FRELOVE  BREBNER. 

Chicago,  June  7,  1922. 


r 


CHAPTER  I. 

GRIDDLE    CAKES 

Economy  makes  happy  homes  and  sound  nations.  Instill 
it  deep. — George  Washington. 

WARREN  G.  HARDING 
President  of  the  United  States 

(Through  courtesy  of  Mrs.  Harding) 

Waffles 

Two  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  pt.  of  milk,  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter, 
and  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat  eggs  (yolks), 
add  sugar  and  salt,  melt  butter,  add  milk  and  flour,  add  milk 
and  flour  last ;  just  before  ready  to  bake  add  beaten  whites  of 
eggs  and  baking  powder.    Bake  on  hot  waffle  iron. 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE 

Washington 

May  19,  1921. 

My  dear  Mrs.  Brebner : 

Mrs.  Harding  is  very  glad  to  comply  with 
your  request  of  May  seventeenth,  and  is  there- 
fore enclosing  her  recipe  for  "Wa^es,"  with  her 
best  wishes  for  the  success  of  the  good  cause  you 
represent. 

C.  MALTEN, 

Secretary. 


10  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

GOVERNOR  T.  C.  McRAE,  State  of  Arkansas 

Waffles 

Four  eggs,  beaten  light ;  1  qt.  of  buttermilk,  1  qt.  of  flour, 
2  handsful  of  corn  meal,  2  level  teaspoons  of  soda,  4  table- 
spoons of  melted  lard,  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  on  hot  waffle 
iron. 


CAPT.  RALPH  EARLE 

Former  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  U.  S.  Navy,  now  at 

anchor  Guantanamo  Bay,  Cuba,  U.  S.  Atlantic  Fleet, 

U.  S.  S.  Florida,  Flagship. 

(Through  courtesy  of  Capt.  Earle's  chef,  "W.  H.  Johnston) 

Raised  Waffles 

One  and  %  cups  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  14  yeast  cake,  %  cup  of  luke  warm  water,  2  cups  of 
flour,  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  whites  of  2  eggs.  Scald  milk,  add 
salt,  and  yeast  cake  in  lukewarm  water,  add  flour,  beat  thor- 
oughly, let  rise  over  night ;  in  the  morning  add  yolks  to  mixture 
and  beat  well;  add  whites  beaten  stiff  and  bake  same  as  other 
waffles.    If  whole  yeast  cake  is  used,  will  be  ready  in  1  hour. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  J.  A.  HOOGEWERF 

Commandant  U.  S.  Navy  Yard,  Puget  Sound,  Washington 

Waffles 

One  pt.  of  flour,  sifted  3  times,  1  qt.  of  milk,  1  egg,  1  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter,  %  teaspoon  of  salt ;  add  flour  to  make 
a  thin  batter.    Bake  on  hot  iron  and  serve  with  syrup. 


M.  E.  MOORHEAD 

American  Consul  to  Stuttgart,  Germany 

Flannel  Cakes 

Editor's  Note:  This  recipt  was  prepared  by  Mrs.  Moor- 
head  and  taken  from  a  cook  book  she  wrote  for  the  benefit  of 
the  Red  Cross  while  located  in  British  India. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  11 


Beat  2  eggs  into  a  bowl  and  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  table- 
spoon of  sugar  and  l1^  pts.  of  milk  with  1  teaspoon  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  %  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  it ;  add  flour  to 
make  a  thin  batter.  Bake  on  greased  griddle  or  frying  pan; 
spread  with  butter  and  send  to  table  hot.  Half  of  this  quan- 
tity is  enough  for  3  or  4  persons. 


BRIG.  GENERAL  D.  E.  AULTMAN 
Camp  Knox,  Ky.,  U.  S.  Army 

Health  Griddle  Cakes 

One  cup  of  whole-wheat  flour,  y2  cup  of  rye  meal,  ^  cup 
of  bran,  about  1^4  cups  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  ground  flax- 
seed, 1  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  eggs  and  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Separate  the  eggs,  beat  yolks,  add  milk,  salt  and  all 
the  ingredients  except  the  baking  powder.  Beat  and  let  the 
batter  rest  an  hour,  then  beat  in  baking  powder,  add  whites 
of  eggs  and  bake  on  hot  griddle.  Serve  with  maple  syrup  or 
honey. 


CHARLES  C.  McCHORD 

Chairman,  Interstate  Commerce  Commission,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Potato  Pancakes 

Five  large,  raw  potatoes,  2  onions,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  and 
4  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Grate  onions  and  potatoes  on  very 
coarse  grater;  add  eggs  and  beat  for  5  minutes.  Do  not  add 
milk  or  flour. 


W.  H.  SHOLES 

American  Consul,  Gothenburg,  Sweden 
Dixie  Rice  Batter  Cakes 
Take  1  cup  of  washed  rice,  1  pt.  of  water,  place  in  a  sauce 
pan  and  boil  with  lid  on  until  quite  dry ;  put  into  pan  and  mix 
in  1  cup  of  fresh  milk,  6  ozs.  of  flour  with  1  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder  mixed  with  it,  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  5  eggs,  pinch 
of  salt,  and  %  cup  of  best  molasses.  "Work  the  paste  well; 
form  into  cakes,  put  on  hot  griddle  and  bake  until  done.  Serve 
hot  with  butter  and  syrup. 


12  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


HANFORD    McNIDER 
National  Commander  of  the  American  Legion 

(Elected  national  commander  of  the  American  Legion  at 
the  Kansas  City  convention  on  November  2,  1921.  Under  his 
guidance  the  millions  of  devoted  Americans  who  offered  their 
lives  for  their  country  in  the  world  war  will  continue,  in  the 
days  of  peace,  to  serve  their  country  as  citizens  of  highest 
ideals.) 

THE  AMERICAN  LEGION 
National  Headquarters,  Meridian  Life  Building 
Indianapolis,  Ind. 

Office  of  the  National  Commander 

November  23,  1921. 

My  Dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

Thank  you  very  much  for  your  letter  of  No- 
vember 21st. 

I  certainly  agree  with  you  about  our  unem- 
ployed ex-service  men  and  we  want  to  do  every- 
thing we  can  to  see  that  they  get  properly  taken 
care  of. 

I  only  wish  I  had  some  recipe  for  your  cook 
book,  but  I  am  just  a  bald-headed  old  bachelor 
and  what  I  know  about  cooking  I  am  sure  would 
not  help  very  much.  I  assure  you  I  am  with 
you  in  spirit  in  the  good  work  you  are  doing. 

Very  truly  yours, 

HANFORD  MacNIDER, 
National  Commander. 

(Editor's  Note — I  selected  "buckwheat  griddlecakes"  and 
trust  that  Mr.  MacNider  and  other  "bald-headed  old  bach- 
elors" like  the  dish.) 

Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes 

Two  cups  of  buckwheat  flour,  y2  cup  of  corn  meal,  or  if 
wished,  white  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  cup  of  molasses,  ^> 
yeast  cake,  %  cup  of  lukewarm  water  and  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Mix  buckwheat,  corn  meal  and  salt ;  add  dissolved  yeast  cake, 
molasses  and  water;  beat  well.  Let  rise  over  night.  In  the 
morning  beat,  add  soda,  beat  again  and  fry. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  13 


H.  L.  WASHINGTON 

American  Consul  to  Liverpool,  England 

"May  I  also  enclose  a  small  cheque  which  I  most  heartily 
wish  it  were  possible  to  make  many  times  larger,  and  further 
extend,  on  behalf  of  my  wife  and  myself,  every  wish  for  the 
best  success  of  your  fine  enterprise. 

Faithfully  yours, 

H.  L.  WASHINGTON." 

Waffles 

One  pt.  of  sour  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  flour  to  make 
a  medium  thick  batter,  stir  well  and  set  over  night;  in  the 
morning  add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  lard 
and  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake 
on  hot  waffle  iron. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  R.  M.  KENNEDY 

Naval  Retiring  Board,  U.  S.  Navy,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Fruit  Griddle  Cakes 

Make  a  thin  batter  of  2  cups  of  fruit  (raspberries  or  straw- 
berries), 1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  or  2  cups  of 
milk,  flour  to  make  a  medium  thick  batter,  and  1  cup  of  sugar. 
Fry  like  pancakes. 


14  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


STATE  OF  MAINE 
OFFICE  OF  THE  GOVERNOR 

Augusta 

October  25,  1921. 

My  Dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

Your  letter  of  October  twentieth  addressed 
to  "Governor  and  Mrs.  Parkhurst"  was  received 
at  this  office.  Governor  Parkhurst  died  on  Jan- 
uary 31st,  last,  and  was  succeeded  by  the  Hon- 
orable Percival  P.  Baxter  of  Portland.  As  Gov- 
ernor Baxter  is  unmarried  I  am  referring  your  let- 
ter to  Miss  Susan  Ballou,  who  is  the  Governor's 
Housekeeper,  and  will  be  glad  to  send  you  a 
recipe  from  the  Executive  Mansion  that  the  State 
of  Maine  may  be  represented. 
Sincerely, 

GERTRUDE  H.  PLAISTAD, 

Assistant  Secretary  to  the  Governor. 


(Editor's  Note — Forty-five  governors  are  represented  in 
THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK.  The  following  letter 
asks  representation  for  the  Pine  Tree  State.) 


•  ,;"  '  CHAPTER  II. 

BREADS 

If  you  can't  get  cream  you  might  as  well  learn  to  love 
your  sasser  of  skim  milk. — J.  C.  Lincoln. 

HONORABLE  THOMAS  R.  MARSHALL 

£  v  Former  Vice-President  of  the  United  States 

"You  can  furnish  a  recipe  for  me,  only  remember — don't 
make  it  too  rich  for  a  poor  Hoosier. 

"That  you  know  I  approve  of  you  and  your  work,  I  en- 
close my  check  with  this  to  buy  as  many  books  as  it  will,  when 
issued,  and  give  with  your  compliments  to  some  poor  soldiers' 
wives."  Excerpt  from  letter,  February  3,  1922.  The  Editor 
selected  the  following  recipe,  in  accordance  with  the  request: 

Hoosier  Salt  Rising  Bread 

In  a  deep  vessel  make  a  sponge  by  mixing  3  cups  of 
warm  water  or  new  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  soda  and 
enough  flour  (about  2  tablespoons)  to  make  a  batter,  cover 
closely  and  set  in  a  pot  of  warm  water  in  a  warm  place.  After 
6  hours  (or  less),  add  1  qt.  of  flour  and  enough  boiling  water 
or  scalded  milk  (or  half  and  half)  to  make  a  smooth  elastic 
dough,  working  it  about  %  hour.  Form  loaves,  put  into  but- 
tered baking  pans,  filling  them  half  full,  let  rise  until  the  pans 
are  nearly  full,  and  then  bake  in  moderate  oven  from  30  to  40 
minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  loaves.  To  keep,  wrap 
in  cloth  or  place  in  stone  jars.  As  milk  bread  doesn't  keep 
well  in  hot  weather,  a  teaspoon  of  butter  or  lard  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  milk.  This  bread  may  be  eaten  as  soon  as 
baked. 


16  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

U.  S.  SENATOR  J.  £.  RANSDELL,  the  State  of  Louisiana 

Through  courtesy  of  Mrs.  Borah  of  New  Orleans 

French  Loaves 

Make  a  sponge  of  1  cup  of  compressed  yeast  and  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar  dissolved  in  %  cup  of  lukewarm  water.  To  1 
cup  of  scalded  milk  add  1  cup  of  hot  water  and  when  luke- 
warm add  to  yeast  and  2  cups  of  flour.  Beat  5  minutes.  Let 
rise  until  very  light  (takes  about  1  hour),  add  3  tablespoons 
of  melted  shortening  and  iy2  teaspoons  of  salt.  Stir  in  5  cups 
of  flour;  knead  until  dough  is  smooth  and  elastic,  using  more 
flour  if  necessary.  Cover  to  let  rise  and  when  light  (double 
its  bulk)  mold  into  French  Loaves.  Divide  the  dough  in  half 
and  each  half  into  twelve,  making  24  loaves.  Roll  each  5 
inches  long,  taper  each  end.  Lay  on  greased  pan  sufficient 
distance  apart  not  to  touch  each  other,  cover  to  let  rise  an 
hour  in  warm  place.    Bake  real  brown. 


U.  S.  SENATOR  GEORGE  W.  NORRIS,  of  Nebraska 
Chairman,  Committee  on  Agriculture  and  Forestry 

Bran  Bread 

Two  cups  of  bread  flour,  2  cups  of  bran,  %  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  1  cup  of  raisins  or  %  cup  of  chopped  nut  meats, 
Y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  cups  of  buttermilk,  and  1  level  teaspoon 
of  soda.  Dry  ingredients  in  order  given.  Stir  buttermilk  and 
soda  until  foamy.  Add  to  above  ingredients  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Let  rise  30  minutes  in  warm  place.  Bake  in  a  very 
slow  oven. 


MAJOR  GENERAL  GEORGE  0.  SQUIRES 

Chief  Signal  Officer,  U.  S.  Army,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Gluten  Bread 

Two  cups  of  boiling  water,  2  cups  of  scalded  milk,  2  tea- 
spoons of  butter,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  1  egg,  %  yeast  cake, 
*4  cup  of  warm  water  and  3  cups  of  gluten.  Mix  water,  milk, 
salt  and  butter.  When  lukewarm,  add  dissolved  yeast  cake, 
egg,  well  beatenfi  and  gluten.  Let  rise,  when  spongy  beat  well, 
add  enough  more  gluten  to  shape.  Knead,  let  rise,  shape  in 
loaves,  let  rise  and  bake  1  hour. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  17 


H.  F.  BAIN 

Director  of  Bureau  of  Mines  (Interior  Department), 
Washington,  D.  C. 

Nut  Bread 

Three  eggs,  beaten  well,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  \y2  cups  of  sweet  or 
sour  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  (or  soda  with  sour 
milk),  about  2  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough, 
about  %  cup  of  walnut  meats  (broken). 


MAJOR  GENERAL  C.  J.  BAILEY, 

U.  S.  Army,  Ft.  Howard,  Maryland 

Graham  Bread 

One  qt.  each  of  graham  and  white  flour,  1  tablespoon 
of  sugar,  1  cup  of  black  molasses,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  qt. 
of  tepid  water  in  which  1  yeast  cake  has  been  dissolved.  Beat 
well  together,  set  to  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  pour  off 
into  2  well-greased  bread  tins,  let  rise  again  for  %  of  an 
hour,  then  bake  40  minutes. 


GOVERNOR  E.  F.  MORGAN,  State  of  West  Virginia 

Note:  A  recipe  for  bread  by  Mrs.  Meig's  (Daphne 
Squires),  whose  husband  was  twice  governor  of  West  Virginia 
in  1830.  Written  as  it  was  made  in  1830  when  the  brick  oven 
was  used. 

"Mrs.  Governor  Meig's  Bread" 

Sift  about  4  qts.  of  flour  in  a  bread  bowl,  add  2  teaspoons 
of  salt,  y2  pt.  of  "Daphne's"  yeast  (which  today  would  be 
the  same  as  any  home-made  yeast),  1  qt.  of  lukewarm  milk; 
stir  in  just  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter  (do  this  the 
night  before)  ;  let  this  stand  in  brick  oven  (in  winter  time)  to 
raise  until  morning,  then  add  to  it  y2  pt.  of  warm  milk,  stir- 
ring in  gradually  the  warmed  flour,  until  the  batter  is  nearly 
thick  enough  to  knead;  then  put  in  a  warm  place  for  about 
\y2  hours,  then  knead  it  a  long  while;  then  put  it  again  in 


18  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


a  warm  place  to  raise  again.  .  Then  bake  it.  In  summer  use 
warm  water  instead  of  milk.  It  is  well  to  add  a  little  saleratus 
(dissolved  in  water)  just  before  set  to  raise  the  last  time.  A 
little  piece  of  butter  makes  bread  more  tender. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  H.  S.  KNAPP 
Through  courtesy  of  Miss  Knapp  (Admiral  Knapp's  sister) 

Coffee  Bread 

Mix  thoroughly  2  cups  of  flour,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  and  2 
tablespoons  of  shortening.  To  1  tablespoon  of  this  mixture 
add  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  To 
the  rest  of  the  mixture  add  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
1  egg  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Put  in  pan  and  spread  over  it  the 
smaller  mixture,  pressing  it  down.    Bake  25  minutes. 


H.  SHARP 

American  Consul  to  Edinburgh,  Scotland 

Potato  Raisin  Bread 

One  yeast  cake,  %  cup  of  warm  water,  1%  cups  of  sweet 
milk,  2  tablespoons  of  corn  syrup,  iy2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes, 
4*^  cups  of  wheat  or  barley  flour,  4  tablespoons  of  shortening, 
1  cup  of  raisins  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Dissolve  yeast  cake 
and  1  tablespoon  of  corn  syrup  in  lukewarm  water ;  add  1  cup 
of  flour  and  milk,  potatoes,  shortening  and  corn  syrup  well 
creamed.  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light, 
add  raisins  that  have  been  well  floured,  and  salt.  Knead 
lightly  and  let  rise  again  until  double  its  bulk.  Mold  into 
loaves  and  when  light,  glaze  with  egg  diluted  with  water  and 
bake  45  minutes. 


MAJOR  GENERAL  C.  J.  BAILEY 

U.  S.  Army,  Ft.  Howard,  Maryland 

New  England  Brown  Bread 

One  cup  each  graham  flour,  white  flour,  yellow  cornmeal, 
1  cup  of  Porto  Rico  molasses  (black),  2  cups  of  sour  milk, 
1  scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  either  brown 
or  white  sugar,  1  very  scant  teaspoon  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  19 


dissolved  in  *4  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Grease  a  mold  or  a  tightly 
closed  tin  pail,  fill  with  the  above  mixture  and  steam  con- 
tinuously for  3  hours. 


COMMANDER  M.  K,  METCALF 

Department  of  the  Navy,  General  Board,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Nut  and  Raisin  Bread 

One  cup  of  molasses,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  baking  soda  (or  2  teaspoons  baking  powder),  2  cups 
sweet  or  sour  milk,  4  cups  of  sifted  graham  flour  (or  3^ 
cups  unsifted),  1  cup  of  raisins,  y2  cup  of  chopped  walnuts. 
Stir  soda  in  molasses;  add  milk,  salt,  flour  and  raisins  and 
nuts  rolled  in  flour.    Bake  about  an  hour. 


BRIG-GENERAL  MALIN  CRAIG,  U.  S.  Army,  Ft.  Riley,  Kan. 

Nut  Bread 

One  and  %  cups  of  cornmeal,  1^  cups  of  white  flour,  2 
cups  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  coarsely  chopped  walnuts,  pinch 
of  salt,  y%  cup  of  brown  sugar  (no  lumps),  %  cup  of  molasses, 
1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  2  cups  of  sour  milk  and  2  tea- 
spoons of  soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk.  Sift  baking  powder 
with  the  white  flour.  Mix  all  ingredients  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  1  hour. 


J.  C.  GREW 

American  Minister  to  Switzerland 

Oatmeal  Bread 

Four  cups  of  water,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  cup  of  molasses, 

1  tablespoon  of  lard.  Place  on  the  fire  and  when  it  begins  to 
boil  add  2  cups  of  rolled  oats.  Boil  3  minutes;  when  cool, 
add  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  and 

2  qts.  of  flour.  Knead  thoroughly;  let  rise  over  night;  shape 
into  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake  %  hour. 


CHAPTER  III. 

BISCUITS 

A  light  supper,  a  good  night's  sleep  and  a  fine  morning 
have  often  made  a  hero  of  the  same  man  who  by  indigestion, 
a  restless  night  and  a  rainy  morning  would  have  proved  a 
coward. — Chesterfield. 


MAJOR  GENERAL  OMAR  BUNDY,  U.  S.  Army 
Rolls 

Take  1  cup  of  yeast,  3  cups  of  flour,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt, 
1  egg  and  1  tablespoon  of  lard.  Mix  lightly  and  knead  for  a 
few  minutes.  Roll  quite  thin  and  cut  into  biscuits.  Let  rise 
for  about  3  hours  and  bake  in  hot  oven  15  to  20  minutes. 

Yeast :  2  cups  of  potato  water,  1  cup  of  mashed  potatoes 
(very  fine),  when  cold  add  1  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dis- 
solved in  a  cup  of  water,  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  This  yeast  will 
keep  indefinitely  if  kept  in  a  cool  place. 


CAPT.  RALPH  EARL 

At  Anchor  Guantanamo  Bay,  Cuba,  U.  S.  S.  Florida,  Flagship 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Two  cups  scalded  milk,  3  tablespoons  butter,  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  2  teaspoons  salt,  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  % 
cup  luke  warm  water,  3  cups  flour.  Add  butter,  sugar  and 
salt  to  milk  when  luke  warm  water;  add  yeast  and  flour,  beat 
thoroughly ;  cover  and  let  rise  until  light,  cut  down  and  add 
enough  flour  to  knead  about  2y2  cups  and  let  rise  again  after 


22  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


the  second  rising;  take  and  toss  slightly  on  a  floured  board; 
knead  well  and  roll  ont  to  %  inch  thickness;  shape  with 
biscuit  cutter;  take  a  case  knife  handle  dipped  in  flour  and 
make  a  crease  through  the  middle  of  each  piece;  brush  over 
one-half  of  each  piece  with  melted  butter,  fold  and  press  the 
edges  together;  place  in  a  well-greased  pan  one  inch  apart 
and  let  rise  until  light ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  12  to  15  minutes. 


H.  M.  WOLCOTT 

American  Counsul  at  Bilbao,  Spain 

Rolls 

Beat  1  egg,  add  scant  tablespoon  of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of 
salt,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour 
and  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.    Bake  in  medium  oven. 


LT.  COMMANDER  LEE  P.  WARREN 

Aide  to  the  Assistant  Secretary,  U.  S.  Navy 
Spanish  Buns 
One  whole  egg,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  cups  of  butter,  %  cup 
of  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  of  spices,  and  enough  flour  to 
make  quite  a  thick  lather.  Bake  in  muffin  rings  or  patty  pans. 
Frost  with  whites  of  other  2  eggs,  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon. 


G.  M.  FREEMAN 

American  Counsul,  Sydney,  Nova  Scotia 

Brown  Bread 

One  cup  of  molasses,  %  tablespoon  of  soda,  2  cups  of  sour 
milk  or  cream,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  each  of  graham  flour 
and  corn  meal.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven  1  hour. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  23 

CONGRESSMAN  J.  W.  FORDNEY,  State  of  Michigan 
Chairman,  Ways  and  Means  Committee 

Graham  Loaf 

One  cup  of  buttermilk,  y2  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  3  cups  of  sifted  graham  flour. 
Steam  3  hours.    Do  not  remove  the  cover  while  steaming. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  E.  F.  McGLACHLIN 

Chief  of  Staff,  Army  "War  College,  Washington  Barracks,  D.  C. 

Biscuits 

One  qt.  of  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
1  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  lard  and  1  cup  of 
milk.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the  hands.  Bake  over  hot  open 
fire  or  in  quick  oven.    Serve  with  plenty  of  honey  or  syrup. 

JUDGE  EDWARD  K.  CAMPBELL 

Chief  Justice,  U.  S.  Court  of  Claims 

Biscuits  from  Dixie  Land 

Sift  4  cups  of  flour  into  a  basin  and  %  teaspoon  of  salt, 
rub  6  level  tablespoons  of  lard  well  in  with  the  hands,  then 
add  y2  cup  of  milk  and  1  cup  of  water,  gradually  making  a 
stiff  dough.  Knead  thoroughly  until  the  dough  is  perfectly 
smooth.  Turn  out  on  a  floured  board.  Beat  continuously  for 
30  minutes  with  the  rolling  pin,  folding  over  the  dough  as  it 
is  flattened  out.  Roll  into  a  sheet  about  y2  inch  thick,  cut 
out  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter,  prick  thoroughly  with  a  fork 
3  times  near  the  center  of  the  biscuit,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  y2  hour. 

CHARLES  M.  HATHAWAY 

American  Consul  to  Dublin,  Ireland 

Parmesan  Cheese  Biscuit 

Sift  3  ozs.  of  flour  and  1  pinch  of  red  pepper  on  a  board, 
rub  in  2  ozs.  of  Parmesan  cheese  and  2  ozs.  of  butter.    Make 


24  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


a  hollow  in  the  center,  put  into  this  2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
of  stalk  and  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice ;  work  this  mixture  to  a 
smooth,  thick  paste  (stiff).  Roll  out  very  thin,  stamp  out  in 
small  discs,  place  on  floured  baking  tin,  prick  with  a  fork  and 
bake  in  a  low  oven  a  few  minutes.  Whip  a  little  cream,  mix 
with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  pinch  of  red  pepper,  and 
put  a  small  quantity  in  the  center  of  each  biscuit  just  before 
serving. 


BRIG-GENERAL  C.  W.  KENNEDY 

U.  S.  Army,  ''Presidio,"  San  Francisco 

Cheese  Biscuit 

Two  cups  of  flour,  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  %  cup 
of  grated  cheese  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry 
ingredients;  work  in  shortening  with  finger  tips.  Add  grad- 
ually the  liquid  mixture  with  a  knife  to  a  soft  dough.  Turn 
out  on  a  floured  board  and  roll  y2  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  with 
a  small  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  12  to  15  minutes. 


W.  K.  WILLIAMS 

Former  Assistant  Secretary  of  War 

Southern  Beaten  Biscuit 

One  qt.  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  large  kitchen  spoon 
of  lard.  Make  into  a  stiff  dough  with  sweet  milk  or  milk  and 
water.  Beat  with  a  weight  or  maul  for  y2  hour.  Bake  in  hot 
over,  but  not  hot  enough  to  blister. 


U.  S.  SENATOR  L.  H.  BALL,  State  of  Delaware 

Chairman,  on  the  District  of  Columbia  Committee 

Potato  Split  Biscuit 

Bake  2  large  potatoes;  while  hot  mash  into  a  stonehead 
jar  with  a  sieve.  Stir  1  teacup  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  with 
2  beaten  eggs  and  pinch  of  salt ;  to  this  add  1  teacup  of  milk 
in  which  has  been  dissolved  %  cake  of  yeast  and  1  tablespoon 
of  sugar;  stir  in  1  qt.  of  flour.  Mix  this  at  8  o'clock;  add  1 
pt.  of  sifted  flour  to  the  dough;  let  rise  second  time.    At  4 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  25 


o  'clock  turn  out  the  dough ;  roll  and  cut ;  place  in  pan,  one  on 
top  of  the  other.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


WILLIAM  PHILLIPS 

American  Minister  to  the  Netherlands 

American  Biscuits 
Mix  and  sift  2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder.  Add  1  cup  of  shortening  and  chop 
with  a  knife  until  mealy.  Add  gradually  1  cup  of  milk  until 
a  soft,  spongy  dough.  Turn  on  to  a  floured  board;  toss  with 
a  knife  until  whole  surface  is  floured.  Roll  mixture  to  ^ 
inch;  brush  with  melted  butter;  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and 
sugar  and  chopped  raisins  and  citron.  Roll  like  jelly  roll; 
cut  in  %  mcn  pieces ;  place  on  buttered  tin ;  brush  with  melted 
butter;  sprinkle  with  brown  sugar.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

FISH 

Better  is  a  small  fish  than  an  empty  dish. — Proverb. 


U.  S.  SENATOR  J.  E.  RANSDELL,  State  of  Louisiana 
Louisiana  Baked  Fish 

Take  a  fish  weighing  between  3  and  4  lbs.  Boil  fish  in  a 
little  water,  pour  water  off  and  pour  over  it  sauce  a  la  Creole 
and  bake,  after  which  slice  several  hard-boiled  eggs  over  it. 
Serve  hot. 

Sauce:  Take  2  tablespoons  of  bacon  fat  or  lard  in  an 
iron  skillet.  "When  boiling  hot  cut  into  it  2  coarsely  chopped 
onions.  When  this  fries  to  delicate  brown  push  it  to  one  side 
and  put  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour.  Stir  this  until  it  is  a  golden 
brown,  then  add  a  little  water  and  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  clove 
of  garlic  chopped  very  fine,  a  little  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and 
black  pepper  to  taste. 


C.  M.  FREEMAN 

American  Consul  to  Sydney,  Nova  Scotia 

Savory  Shrimps 

Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  add  2  or  3  drops  of  onion 
juice ;  add  1  cup  of  cream  and  1  cup  of  boiled  rice.  Shred 
1  can  of  shrimps,  which  have  been  well  washed  in  cold  water, 
and  add  to  mixture.  When  thoroughly  heated  add  half  of  a 
cup  of  tomato  catsup.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  if  necessary 
and  serve  on  crackers  or  toast.  (Cook  in  chafing  dish  or 
double  boiler.) 


28  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


U.  S.  SENATOR  H.  S.  NEW,  State  of  Indiana 
Chairman,  Committee  on  Territories  and  Insular  Possessions 

Crab  Creole 

Meat  of  1  large  crab,  or  1  cup  flaked  crab  meat,  2 
medium  sized  tomatoes,  or  1  cup  solid  canned  tomatoes,  2 
onions,  1  green  pepper,  few  grains  soda,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
few  grains  cayenne  pepper,  %  teaspoon  salt,  y2  cup  heavy 
cream,  buttered  toast.  Chop  the  tomato,  onion,  and  pepper 
fine.  Add  the  butter  and  simmer  until  vegetables  are  soft, 
about  30  minutes.  Season,  add  the  soda  and  cream,  turn  in 
the  crab  meat,  let  stand  a  moment  to  become  very  hot,  and 
serve  on  the  toast.  This  may  be  made  in  the  chafing  dish. 
If  desired  the  mixture  may  be  put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish, 
buttered  crumbs  may  be  strewn  over  the  top,  and  it  may  be 
browned  in  a  quick  oven. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  D.  E.  NOLAN 

U.  S.  Army,  Camp  Travis,  Texas 

Fish  Rarebit 

One  teaspoon  butter,  few  drops  onion  juice,  1  tablespoon 
cornstarch,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  paprika,  1  cup  milk, 
%  cup  finely  chopped  cheese,  1  cup  cold,  flaked  cooked  fish, 
1  egg,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  crackers.  Melt  butter,  add 
onion  juice,  and  then  the  cornstarch  mixed  with  the  salt  and 
paprika.  Cook  a  few  minutes  and  then  pour  on  gradually  the 
milk,  cheese,  and  fish,  stirring  constantly.  When  the  cheese  is 
melted,  add  the  slightly  beaten  egg,  and  the  lemon  juice.  Serve 
on  crackers. 


MR.  W.  J.  CARR 

Director  of  the  Consular  Service,  Department  of  State 

Codfish  Balls 

Soak  or  parboil  boneless  codfish.  Shred  y2  cup  and  add 
to  1  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  add  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  dash 
of  red  pepper;  beat  white  and  yolk  of  1  egg  separately  until 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  29 


very  light,  add  the  white  last.    Drop  from  a  spoon  into  deep 
fat  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.    Drain  and  serve  at  once. 


GOVERNOR  H.  J.  ALLEN,  State  of  Kansas 
Baked  Salmon  Loaf 

One  can  salmon,  4  eggs  well  beaten,  y2  cup  bread  crumbs, 
salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste.  Mix  all  well  and  bake  in 
loaf  SA  of  an  hour. 


GOVERNOR  R.  D.  CARY,  State  of  Wyoming 

Mock  Fried  Oysters 

To  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice  add  1  tin  of  sardines  from 
which  the  bones  and  skin  have  been  removed.  This  will  make 
a  coarse  paste.  Roll  this  paste  into  flat,  circular  cakes  and 
fry  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  as  you  would  fried  oyesters  with 
tomato  catsup. 


MAJ.-GENERAL  R.  L.  BULLARD 

Commanding  General,  U.  S.  Army,  Governor's  Island,  N.  Y. 

Baked  Halibut  With  Nut  Sauce 

Boil  till  tender  3  lbs.  of  halibut ;  cut  fine  and  bone.  Add 
1  pt.  of  cream  and  2  cups  of  bread  crumbs  from  inside  of  bread ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika.  Bake  in  a  bread  pan 
lined  with  waxed  paper;  put  pan  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake 
1  to  %  of  an  hour.    Cut  and  serve  in  slices  with  nut  sauce. 

Sauce:  One-quarter  to  y2  lb.  of  well  chopped,  blanched 
almonds,  3  large  tablespoons  butter;  put  in  frying  pan  and 
brown  nuts  chopped  in  it.  Add  to  this  1  pt.  of  sweet  cream 
and  season. 


CAPT.  RALPH  EARLE 

Deviled  Lobster 

Two  lobsters,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  \y2  cups  white  sauce,  few 
grains  cayenne,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  y2  of  a  green  pepper, 


30  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


sprig  parsley,  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice.  Cut  meat  of  lobsters 
in  cubes;  chop  onion  and  pepper;  parsley  fine;  mix  and  saute 
in  butter;  make  white  sauce,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon 
flour  rubbed  smooth ;  add  1  cup  boiling  milk  and  stir  smooth ; 
mix  in  all  ingredients;  fill  shells;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs, 
dot  with  butter  and  bake. 


M.  B.  KIRK 

American  Consul  to  Rouen,  France 

Crabs  in  Red  Peppers 

Eight  red  peppers,  1  pt.  crab  meat,  4  tablespoons  butter, 
4  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon  onion,  salt,  pepper,  paprika, 
mustard,  cayenne,  nutmeg,  1  cup  cream.  Parboil  red  peppers. 
Make  a  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  cream  and  seasonings. 
Add  crab  meat,  fill  peppers  with  crab  mixture,  cover  with 
buttered  and  seasoned  soft  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  until 
crumbs  are  brown. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  C.  L.  McCAULEY,  U.  S.  Marine  Corps 
Mrs.  McCauley's  Jellied  Salmon 

Line  a  brick  mold  with  stock  jelly  made  rather  salty  and 
ornamented  with  whites  of  eggs  and  truffles.  Boil  a  piece  of 
salmon  nearly  the  size  of  mold,  and  when  cold  and  jelly  is 
set,  put  salmon  in  mold  and  fill  up  with  more  jelly.  Place  on 
ice  and  serve  turned  out  on  flat  dish,  garnished  with  chopped 
up  jelly  for  border.  Cut  fish  in  vertical  slices  with  very  sharp 
knife  dipped  in  hot  water. 

Sauce:  Cut  lemons  in  halves,  scoop  out  and  fill  cups  of 
lemons  with  sharp  tartar  sauce,  which  should  be  made  green 
with  spinach  juice.  Have  same  number  of  lemon  cups  as  there 
are  guests  in  order  that  each  may  have  one. 


H.  L.  WASHINGTON 

American  Consul  to  Liverpool,  England 

Baked  Fillet  of  Fish 

Two  slices  of  halibut  cut  from  middle  of  fish,  salt,  pepper, 
lemon  juice,  melted  butter,  2  cups  oyster  stuffing.    Wash  and 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  31 


wipe  fish.  Place  one  slice  on  a  buttered  fish  sheet,  brush  with 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  oyster 
stuffing.  Place  second  slice  on  top  of  oysters,  season,  and 
brush  with  butter.  Bake  40  minutes,  basting  frequently  with 
melted  butter,  turning  pan  often  in  order  that  the  fish  may  be 
uniformly  browned.  Remove  to  hot  platter;  garnish  with 
potato  balls,  parsley,  and  lemon;  Hollandaise,  tomato,  or 
Bechamel  sauce. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  R.  L.  HOWZE 

U.  S.  Army,  Ft.  Bliss,  Texas 

Scalloped  Oysters 

"Wash  oysters,  drain  and  dry  on  towl;  place  a  thin  layer 
of  stale,  but  not  dry,  bread  crumbs  in  shallow  baking  dish; 
put  in  layer  of  oysters;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  dash 
of  powdered  mace  and  dot  thick  with  bits  of  butter;  repeat; 
have  top  layer  with  bread  crumbs  with  dots  of  butter.  Do 
not  moisten  in  any  way.  Do  not  use  more  than  1  cup  of  crumbs 
to  1  qt.  of  oysters.  Bake  in  hot  oven  about  10  minutes  or  until 
the  oysters  just  begin  to  shed  juice.  Serve  very  hot.  You 
would  never  know  it  for  the  same  dish  as  the  pasty,  wet, 
tasteless  dish  usually  known  as  Scalloped  Oysters. 


CHAPTER  V. 

CANAPES 

As  is  the  cook  so  is  the  kitchen. — Old  Proverb. 


CAPT.  W.  D.  WURTZBAUGH 

Commandant  Great  Lakes  Naval  Training  Station 

Crab  Canape 

Arrange  in  center  of  toast  pieces  of  crab  meat  to  look 
like  a  flower,  using  a  piece  of  red  pimento  for  center.  Around 
this  make  a  ring  of  Neufchatel  cheese  mixed  with  chopped 
green  peppers  and  mayonnaise. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  R.  M.  KENNEDY,  U.  S.  Navy 

Peach  Canape 

Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  2  cups  of  peaches  with 
skins* and  stones  removed;  cook  10  minutes,  then  add  sugar 
and  lemon  juice.  Serve  over  slices  of  sauted  bread  or  sponge 
cake ;  garnish  with   cream. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  HUGH  RODMAN,  U.  S.  Navy 

Commandant  Fifth  Naval  District,  Hampton  Roads,  Virginia 

Nut  and  Olive  Canapes 

Cut  bread  in  crescents.  Fry  in  deep  fat.  Mix  equal  quan- 
tities of  chopped  nuts  and  olives,  with  enough  mayonnaise 
dressing  to  spread.  Spread  on  fried  bread  and  garnish  with 
small  diamond  pimentoes. 


34  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

REAR  ADMIRAL  H.  P.  HUSE 

General  Board,  U.  S.  Navy- 
Cheese  Canapes 

Cut  bread  in  ^-inch  sliees,  spread  lightly  with  French 
mustard,  sprinkle  lightly  with  grated  cheese  and  finely 
chopped  olives ;  or  brown  in  oven  before  sprinkling  with  olives. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  T.  J.  COWIE,  U.  S.  Navy 

Lobster  Canape 

Cut  bread  in  ^-inch  slices;  shape  with  doughnut  cutter. 
Cream  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  1  cup  finely  cut  lobster 
meat,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  few  drops  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  few  grains,  and  6  olives  finely  chopped.  Saute  bread 
in  butter  and  spread  with  above  mixture. 


CAPT.  W.  D.  WURTZBAUGH 

Caviare  and  Tomato  Canape 

Place  on  a  plate  1  medium  sized  leaf  of  lettuce  (white 
head) ;  on  this  lay  1  large  slice  of  tomato.  Cut  a  hole  in 
center  of  tomato  and  set  in  %  of  the  white  of  a  hard-boiled 
egg  filled  with  caviare  mixed  with  mayonnaise ;  arrange  around 
this  and  the  tomato  a  ring  of  the  yellow  of  egg  mixed  with 
mayonnaise. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

SOUPS 

A  husband's  wrath  spoils  the  best  broth. — Old  Proverb. 


NEWTON  BAKER 

Former  Secretary  of  "War 

Jellied  Bouillon  (For  Hot  Weather) 

Use  1  boullion  cube  or  a  teaspoon  of  Maggie  bouillon,  to  1 
cup  of  boiling  water.  Jelly  by  using  2  tablespoons  of  gelatine 
to  the  quart.  Flavor  as  desired.  Break  into  pieces  and  serve 
in  cups. 


ALBERT  FALL 

Secretary  of  the  Interior 

Soup  Made  With  Mexican  Frizole  Beans 

Put  1  qt.  of  well  cooked  beans  through  a  colander;  add 
iy2  qts.  of  sweet  milk,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter  (if  beans 
have  been  cooked  in  clear  water  without  seasoning,  which  is  the 
best  way),  a  little  grated  onion,  if  desired,  and  pepper  and 
salt.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  "When  served  sprinkle  a  little  grated 
hard-boiled  egg  over  each  plate,  and  2  slices  of  lemon.  It 
should  be  the  consistency  of  cream  soup,  not  too  thick.  Use 
2  or  3  eggs  for  the  measurements  given. 


36  THE  ALL  -  AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

BRIG.-GENERAL  DOUGLAS  MacARTHUR 

Commanding  General  West  Point,  U.  S.  Military  Academy 

Mulligatawny  Soup 

Six  cups  of  chicken  stock,  14  cup  of  onion,  2  tablespoons 
chopped  cooked  ham,  4  cloves,  1  tablespoon  of  carrot,  1  tea- 
spoon of  curry  powder,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  salt,  pep- 
per and  cayenne  to  taste,  y%  cooked  chicken,  2  cups  of  tomatoes, 
y2  cup  chopped  green  apple,  %  CUP  boiled  rice,  and  1  sliced 
lemon.  Melt  a  little  butter  and  cook  vegetables  in  it  for  5 
minutes.  Add  remaining  ingredients,  except  lemon,  and  cook 
Y2  hour.     Serve  garnished  with  the  sliced  lemon. 

GOVERNOR  M.  C.  MECHEM,  of  New  Mexico 

New  Mexican  Vegetable  Soup 

For  6  people  take  2  onions,  2  carrots,  2  turnips,  1  small 
parsnip,  y2  head  of  celery,  14  head  of  cabbage,  handful  of 
string  beans  and  1  of  green  peas,  1  clove  of  garlic  and  chop 
them  very  fine  and  put  to  cooking  in  1  qt.  of  hot  water;  then 
add  1  pod  of  red  chile,  whole.  When  all  have  been  cooked 
tender  they  should  be  run  through  a  coarse  sieve  back  into 
the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Add  1  pt.  of  rich  soup 
stock,  1  cup  of  canned  or  ripe  tomatoes,  run  through  a  colander, 
and  2  raw  potatoes  grated  on  a  coarse  grater.  Salt  to  taste, 
adding  a  teaspoon  of  oregano,  and  let  the  soup  cook  slowly 
for  several  hours,  adding  hot  water  occasionally  as  required 
to  keep  it  the  desired  consistency.     Serve  steaming  hot. 


THEODORE  JAECKEL 

American  Consul,  Bordeaux,  France 

Pumpkin  Soup 

One  lb.  of  pumpkin,  2  glasses  of  water,  1  pt.  of  sweet 
milk,  butter,  size  of  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  of  tapioca.  Cut  the  pumpkin  into 
small  pieces,  after  peeling  off  rind,  and  put  in  a  sauce  pan 
with  2  glasses  of  water  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cook  slowly 
over  a  slow  fire  for  1  hour ;  mash  fine  and  press  through  a 
colander;  return  the  pumpkin  to  the  fire,  adding  1  pt.  of  milk, 
butter,  sugar  and  tapioca.     Cook  for  10  minutes,  or  until  it 


THE  ALL  -  AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  37 


thickens.     Serve  with  small  pieces  of  toast  which  have  been 
fried  in  butter. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  M.  L.  BRISTOL,  U.  S.  Navy 

U.  S.  High  Commissioner  in  Turkey 

Okra  Gumbo 

One  chicken,  cut  up  and  fried,  1  qt.  of  okra  chopped  in 
small  pieces,  1  doz.  ears  of  corn,  cut  from  cob,  1  pod  of 
red  peppers,  cut  fine,  and  chopped  onion.  Put  all  in  soup  pot 
and  stir  until  nearly  done;  add  2  qts.  of  boiling  water  and 
cook  4  hours.  Before  removing  from  stove  stir  in  2  qts.  of 
ripe  stewed  and  mashed  tomatoes.    Serve  with  boiled  rice. 


J.  J.  BRITTAIN 

American  Consul-General 

Velvet  Soup 

Six  medium  sized  onions,  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  6 
coffee  cups  of  boiling  water,  6  teaspoons  of  minute  tapioca, 
y%  cup  of  cream,  and  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Slice  the  onions  and 
fry  in  butter  until  all  but  black,  add  water,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  cook  20  minutes.  Strain  through  a  hair  sieve ;  bring  to 
a  boil,  and  add  tapioca,  cooking  10  minutes  more.  Add  yolks 
beaten  in  cream  and  serve.    Do  not  boil  after  cream  is  added. 


U.  S.  SENATOR  THOMAS  STERLING,  State  of  South  Dakota 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

One  pt.  of  tomatoes  after  passing  through  sieve ;  add  pinch 
of  soda,  boil  well,  then  add  pepper  and  butter  and  1  table- 
spoon of  grated  cheese.  Before  serving,  add  1  qt.  of  sweet 
milk  and  %  teaspoon  of  salt.  If  a  thicker  soup  is  desired, 
add  1  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  milk. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  W.  0.  NEVILLE,  U.  S.  Marine  Corps 

Peanut  Soup 

Put  1  qt.  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler ;  add  y2  pt.  of  peanut 
butter,  1  small  grated  onion,  and  1  cup  of  finely  cut  celery; 


38  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


cover  and  cook  slowly  20  minutes.  Moisten  1  teaspoon  of 
cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  add  to  hot  soup,  stirring 
it  until  it  is  smooth  and  thick;  strain,  and  serve  hot,  adding 
1  teaspoon  of  paprika  last. 


CAPT.  W.  M.  CROSE 

Commandant,  U.  S.  Naval  District,  Cavite,  Philippine  Islands 

Onion  Soup 

Stew  into  a  double  boiler  for  1  hour  2  large  minced  onions, 
6  ozs.  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  1  qt.  of  soup  stock.  Into 
1%  cups  of  milk  stir  4  well  beaten  eggs  and  3  tablespoons  of 
Parnesan  cheese.  Cook  until  creamy,  but  do  not  boil;  add 
it  quickly  to  onion  and  stock  and  serve  at  once. 


C.  0.  SPAMER 
American  Consul  to  Medan,  Sumatra 

Oatmeal  Soup 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  oatmeal,  1  qt.  of 
water,  1  bay  leaf,  and  salt  and  pepper ;  meat  extract  if  desired. 
Brown  the  oatmeal  in  the  melted  butter,  stirring  it  constantly. 
Add  cold  water  gradually,  and  the  bay  leaf.  Season  to  taste. 
Boil  1  hour. 


C.  B.  HURST 

American  Consul-General,  Habana,  Cuba 

Bouille-Baisse 

Take  6  lbs.  of  fish,  such  as  whitefish,  sole,  carp,  etc.,  25 
to  30  mussels,  6  onions  cut  in  4  parts,  2  strained  tomatoes,  2 
bay  leaves,  2  slices  of  lemon,  a  drop  of  the  juice  of  orange  peel, 
4  cloves  tied  in  a  little  bag,  salt,  pepper,  saffron  and  finely 
chopped  parsley,  and  1  pt.  of  bouillon.  Cut  the  fish  in  small 
pieces  and  put  all  ingredients  together  in  a  sauce  pan,  stirring 
until  hot;  then  add  1  pt.  of  olive  oil  and  water  to  cover  the 
whole.  Cover  the  sauce  pan  tightly  and  put  it  over  a  quick 
fire  to  boil  for  40  minutes.  Place  about  3  slices  of  bread  on 
each  plate,  remove  the  bag  of  cloves,  and  pour  the  contents 
of  the  sauce  pan  over  the  pieces  of  bread,  serving  as  a  soup, 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  39 


or  a  first  course. 

To  be  really  "Southern  French"  a  little  garlic  may  be 
added.  Small  pieces  of  lobster  as  well  as  a  few  shrimps  make 
a  savory  addition. 


U.  S.  SENATOR  THOMAS  STERLING,  State  of  South  Dakota 

Corn  Soup 

One  qt.  can  of  corn  boiled  in  1  pt.  of  water;  strain,  and 
add  1  qt.  of  milk,  y2  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour  well  blended. 
Just  before  serving  add  1  well  beaten  egg  and  a  little  parsley. 


W.  W.  BRUNSWICK 

American   Consul  to   La  Rochelle,  France 

Vegetable  Bouillon 

Take  3  carrots,  4  leeks,  1  potato,  1  medium  sized  turnip, 
1  onion,  a  small  bunch  of  cherville,  and  2  cubes  of  sugar ;  place 
these  in  a  kettle  containing  2  qts.  of  boiling  water;  add  salt 
and  cook  slowly  for  2  hours,  then  strain,  removing  all  vege- 
tables, then  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of 
tapioca.  Allow  it  to  boil  10  minutes  longer,  stirring  it  con- 
stantly the  last  10  minutes.     Serve  hot. 


C.  R.  NASMITH 

American  Consul,  Ghent,  Belgium 

Calves  Liver  with  Mushrooms 

One  and  y2  lbs.  of  calves  liver,  y2  lb.  of  mushrooms,  large 
piece  of  fresh  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  1  teaspoon  of  Liebig 
or  Borril.  Put  the  meat  in  a  deep  pan  with  the  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  and  let  it  cook  until  it  is  tender,  removing  it  when 
cooked  to  the  oven  to  keep  in  a  warm  place  until  used.  Next, 
clean  and  cut  the  mushrooms  in  small  pieces  and  drop  them 
in  the  meat  juice,  to  which  you  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  When 
the  mushrooms  are  cooked,  take  them  out  and  thicken  the 
sauce  with  a  little  flour,  adding  the  Liebig  or  Borril  last  of  all. 
Slice  the  meat  and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the  mush- 
room gravy  over  it.    Serve  with  mashed  potato  croquettes. 


40  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK* 

U.  S.  SENATOR  W.  B.  McKINLEY,  State  of  Illinois 

Mushroom  Soup 

One-half  lb.  of  mushrooms,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of 
flour,  2  qts.  of  stock,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  1  pt.  of  cream. 
Cream  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  stock.  Put  the  mush- 
rooms through  the  grinder  and  add  to  the  soup.  Just  before 
serving  add  1  pt.  of  whipped  cream. 

"This  is  the  best  stuff  you  ever  put  in  your  mouth." 
(From  Senator  McKinley's  letter.) 

FRANK  BOHR 

American  Consul  to  Cienfuegos,  Cuba 

Celery  Soup 

One  cup  of  chopped  celery  (enough  for  4  persons),  1  pt. 
of  hot  water,  add  more  as  needed,  until  cooked  tender.  Boil 
down  to  about  iy2  cups  of  water  or  less,  then  add  the  milk 
to  the  desired  richness ;  salt,  butter  and  pepper  to  taste.  This 
is  a  very  nourishing  soup. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

MEATS 

The  healthiest  feast  costs  the  least. — Old  Proverb. 


WILL  R.  HAYS 

(Note:  This  recipe  was  sent  while  Mr.  Hays  was  Post- 
master-General of  the  United  States.) 

Baked  Ham 

Take  1  good  sized  cut  of  ham,  stick  cloves  over  the  top 
and  sprinkle  generously  with  brown  sugar.  Bake  slowly  in 
oven  until  done. 


J.  I.  BRITTAIN 

American  Consul-General,  Winnipeg,  Man.,  Canada 

Scallops  of  Veal 

Cut  veal  steak  into  individual  portions  and  pound  until 
tender.  Fry  in  butter  until  brown.  Remove  from  the  pan  and 
add  more  flour  and  butter,  stirring  in  enough  boiling  water 
to  cover  the  meat.  Add  a  bay  leaf,  salt  and  pepper  and  replace 
the  scallops  in  the  sauce.  Cook  for  %  hour  slowly,  keeping 
it  closely  covered.  Remove  the  scallops  and  place  each  one 
on  piece  of  buttered  toast.  Add  to  the  sauce  an  egg  yolk 
which  has  been  beaten  into  a  cup  of  cream.  Pour  over  the 
meat  immediately. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  43 


W.  S.  HOLLIS 

American  Consul-General,  Lisbon,  Portugal 

Stuffed  Suckling  Pig 

Rub  the  skin  of  the  suckling  pig  with  a  thick  cloth,  dipped 
in  boiling  water.  Then  take  the  tripe  away,  rub  the  pig  with 
butter,  fat,  pepper,  salt,  garlic,  cover  with  lemon  and  let 
remain  like  that  4  or  5  hours  before  putting  it  in  the  oven. 
Cut  the  pluck  in  pieces  (small)  and  add  potatoes,  hard-boiled 
eggs,  parsley,  onions,  pepper,  and  a  little  water,  and  put  it  on 
the  fire.  When  it  is  ready,  take  it  off  the  fire  and  add  stoned 
olives  to  it.     Stuff  pig  with  this  mixture  and  place  in  oven. 


GOVERNOR  M.  C.  MECHEM,  State  of  New  Mexico 

Pozole 

Taken  from  "New  Mexican  Cooking" 

Select  a  good  piece  of  New  Mexico  pork,  and  cut  up  into 
small  pieces  for  cooking.  Fry  2  onions  and  4  cloves  of  garlic, 
chopped  fine,  in  a  tablespoon  of  lard  or  dripping  and  add  the 
pork,  about  2  lbs.  for  average  meal,  and  let  it  blend  with 
onions  and  garlic.  Add  1  teacupful  of  hominy  or  hulled  corn 
for  each  lb.  of  meat  and  chile  pulp  (see  sauces)  in  the  propor- 
tions of  y%  teacupful  to  each  lb.  of  meat,  1  laurel  leaf  and 
1  tablespoon  of  pulverized  oregano,  salt  to  taste.  Let  this 
cook  slowly  until  meat  is  tender.  Should  be  served  piping  hot. 
Tomatoes  may  be  added,  if  desired,  but  are  not  essential. 


E.  M.  McGUIRE 

Senior  Nat'l  Representative,  Buck  Privates'  Society,  A.  E.  F. 

Chop  Suey 

One  and  %  lbs.  of  pork  and  veal  cut  up,  3  large  onions, 
2  stalks  celery,  5  tablespoons  "Fuji  Sauce,"  2  tablespoons 
molasses,  2  tablespoons  catsup,  1  small  raw  mushroom,. 2  table- 
spoons flour.  Boil  meat  until  tender.  Allow  1  pt.  of  juice,  2 
tablespoons  bacon  fat.  Have  the  pan  hot  and  fry  meat  with 
2  tablespoons  "Fuji  Sauce"  (fry  5  minutes).  Add  celery, 
onion  and  mushrooms  and  other  3  tablespoons  of  "Fuji  Sauce" 
(cook  5  minutes).  Add  1  pt.  of  meat  juice,  molasses,  catsup 
and  thickening  and  cook  15  minutes.     Serve  with  rice. 


44  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

U.  S.  SENATOR  MORRIS  SHEPPARD,  State  of  Texas 

Chile  Con  Came 

One  pt.  of  chile  beans,  1  lb.  of  round  steak,  2  onions,  1 
can  of  tomatoes,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  ^  teaspoon  of  paprika. 
Cut  the  steak  in  strips  1  inch  long,  *4  inch  wide,  let  brown 
in  frying  pan.  Skin  out  the  meat,  add  to  the  fat  the  finely 
chopped  onions  and  cook  until  soft.  Add  tomatoes  and  heat 
to  the  boiling  point.  Add  beans,  without  liquids,  the  salt,  and 
paprika  and  pour  over  the  meat.    Simmer  gently  3  hours. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  B.  C.  BRYAN 

U.  S.  Naval  Retiring  Board 

Mexican  Tongue 

One  fresh  beef  tongue,  1  cup  of  vinegar,  1  cup  brown 
sugar,  1  doz.  whole  cloves,  %  cup  raisins,  1  sliced  lemon.  Sim- 
mer tongue  for  4  hours  the  day  before  using.  Peel  and  return 
to  the  liquor  and  let  it  stand  in  it  over  night  to  get  cold.  Drain 
and  place  in  casserole  with  the  sauce  made  of  the  vinegar, 
sugar,  cloves,  raisins  and  lemon.    Bake  slowly  3  hours. 


MAJ.-GENERAL   J.   G.   HARBORD 

Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  U.  S.  Army 

Baked  Ham 

One  tablespoon  each  of  flour,  brown  sugar  and  mustard. 
Rub  and  mix  into  a  thick  slice  of  ham  on  each  side.  Cover 
with  milk  and  bake  in  oven  1  hour. 


CHARLES  HATHAWAY 

American  Consul,  Dublin,  Ireland 

Meat  a  la  Riviere 

One  lb.  of  steak,  2  medium  sized  onions,  2  ozs.  butter,  % 
lb.  can  of  tomatoes  or  1  lb.  fresh  ones,  a  little  stock  and  flour 
thickening.  Put  butter  in  saucepan,  melt  and  add  onions 
peeled  and  sliced,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  in  thickening 
and  breakfast  cup  of  stock.  Add  meat  (removing  all  bone 
and  gristle).     Cover  close  and  simmer  slowly  6  hours.     Add 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  45 


tomatos  and  little  hot  water.     Cook  20  minutes.     Serve  with 
rice  or  macaroni  and  tomato  sauce. 


S.  E.  McMILLIN 
American  Consul  to  Port  Lima,  Costa  Rica 

Spanish  Steak 

Fry  flank  steak  in  Crisco  or  butter  until  brown;  take 
out  and  put  into  baking  pan  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Slice  onions  and  fry  brown  in  frying  pan.  Spread  onions  over 
steak  and  over  it  pour  1  can  of  tomatoes  (juice  and  all).  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven  about  1  hour,  basting  often. 


DR.  L.  OFNER 

U.  S.  P.  H.  No.  30,  Drexel  Hospital,  Chicago 

Pot  Roast 

Two  and  %  lbs.  of  sirloin  beef,  1  tablespoon  drippings,  1  pt. 

boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  chopped  onion,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Wash,  season  meat,  and  sprinkle  with  flour. 
Heat  the  fat  and  fry  onion  in  it  until  light  brown.  Place 
meat  in  pot,  brown  on  all  sides,  pour  on  boiling  water  and 
simmer  slowly  until  tender.  Add  a  little  boiling  water  from 
time  to  time  to  keep  from  burning.  A  little  stewed  tomato 
placed  on  meat  %  hour  before  serving  adds  to  its  flavor. 
Thicken  gravy  with  flour. 

BRIG.-GENERAL    U.    G.   McALEXANDER 

U.  S.   Army,  Camp   Lewis,  Washington 

Through  courtesy  of  Mrs.  J.  Stuhr 

Tamale  Loaf 

One  can  strained  tomatoes,  3  cloves  of  garlic,  "Grandma's 
Spanish  Pepper,"  1%  lbs.  of  fresh  pork,  chopped  fine,  2  large 
onions,  salt  to  taste.  Add  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  yellow  corn 
meal,  3  eggs,  can  corn,  1  pt.  stoned  ripe  olives,  3  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Cook  mixture  15  minutes  and 
then  put  in  pan  and  bake  1  hour. 


46  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

U.  S.  SENATOR  F.  B.  WILLIS,  State  of  Ohio 

Roimdsteak  Breasteau 

Make  a  cream  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and 
butter  until  smooth,  add  1  pt.  of  white  stock,  or  milk;  cook 
to  smooth  gravy.  To  the  sauce  add  1  pt.  of  ground  steak,  3 
cups  of  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  At  last 
moment  add  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Bake  in  buttered  muffin 
tins  set  in  cold  water.  Cover  with  paraffin  paper.  Bake  20 
minutes.     Serve  with  more  sauce.     Makes  12  cakes. 

CONGRESSMAN  E.  0.  LEATHERWOOD,  State  of  Utah 

Beef  a  la  King 

One  lb.  of  round  steak,  1  green  and  %  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Cut  the  steak  in  small  or  large  pieces  and  put  in  frying  pan 
with  enough  fat  to  brown;  when  browned  add  enough  water 
to  let  simmer  about  %  of  an  hour.  Add  thickening  of  1  table- 
spoon of  flour  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Boil  a  few  minutes  and 
serve  hot  with  mashed  potatoes. 

J.  B.  MILNER 

American  Consul  to  Niagara  Falls,  Ont.,  Canada 

Philadelphia  Scrapple 

Take  5  lbs.  of  fresh  pork,  cover  with  water,  add  1  heaping 
tablespoon  of  salt,  and  boil  until  the  meat  separates  from  the 
bone.  Remove  the  meat  from  the  kettle,  straining  off  the 
liquor  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Then  add  to  liquor  enough 
to  make  2y2  qts.  To  this  add  1  chopped  onion  and  a  little 
sage  if  desired,  then  stir  in  enough  corn  meal  to  make  a  mush 
that  will  slice  when  cold.  When  the  meat  has  been  stirred 
in  have  meat  chopped,  not  too  fine,  put  into  kettle  and  boil  all 
together  for  an  hour  or  so  more,  being  very  careful  not  to 
scorch.  When  thoroughly  done,  turn  out  in  square  pan,  and 
when  cold  cut  in  slices  and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  T.  J.  COWIE 

Secretary  and  Treasurer,  Navy  Mutual  Aid  Association 
Pork  Chops  a  la  Mode 
Cut  chops  about  1  inch  thick,  parboil  and  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  eggs,  doing  it  twice.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  47 


lay  in  baking  pan,  place  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each  chop, 
pnt  on  cover  and  bake  until  brown.  Scald  1  pt.  of  sweet 
milk,  stir  into  a  cream  made  up  of  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  adding  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  parsley  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg.     Pour  over  chops  just  before  serving. 


U.  S.  SENATOR  R.  H.  CAMERON,  State  of  Arizona 

Tenderloin  Steak 

Cut  steak  2  inches  thick,  from  the  middle  of  a  fillet  of 
beef,  and  flatten  with  a  cleaver.  For  6  steaks,  mix  2  lbs.  of 
mashed  potatoes,  1  tablespoon  finely  grated  horseradish  and 
%  gill  of  cream  in  a  saucepan  over  an  extra  hot  fire ;  when  hot, 
work  in  2  egg  yolks,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  grated  nut- 
meg, and  remove  from  the  fire.  Make  of  this  mass  as  many 
balls  as  you  have  steaks  and  flatten  the  balls  to  the  same 
thickness  as  the  steaks,  dip  them  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry- 
to  a  golden  color  in  butter.  Drain  and  keep  hot.  Peel  and 
core  1  large  sour  apple,  cut  into  slices,  dip  in  flour  and  milk, 
fry  in  butter.  Arrange  slices  of  prepared  potato  on  hot  dish, 
put  the  steaks,  fried  rare,  on  top  of  each,  brush  over  with 
meat  glaze,  and  top  each  with  fried  apple,  1  fried  mushroom 
head  on  top.  Pour  some  hot  tomato  sauce  around  the  base. 
Serve  hot. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  H.  P.  HUSE 

General  Board,  U.  S.  Navy 

Roast  Suckling  Pig 

A  pig  from  3  to  6  weeks  old  is  best  for  roasting.  Leave 
the  pig  whole  and  wash  inside  and  out,  chop  the  liver  and 
mix  with  equal  quantities  of  bread  crumbs  and  mashed  pota- 
toes. Add  2  chopped  onions,  a  little  parsley,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste ;  mix  into  a  paste  with  2  beaten  eggs,  1  lump  of  butter 
and  1  cup  of  milk.  Stuff  the  pig  with  this  dressing.  Sew  it 
up  and  bake  about  1%  to  2  hours,  basting  frequently.  Make 
a  gravy  with  the  stuffing  and  the  drippings.  When  the  pig 
is  done,  put  on  a  platter,  put  a  lemon  or  apple  in  its  mouth; 
serve  with  the  sauce  and  lay  on  platter  sprigs  of  parsley  and 
any  attractive  garnish.  This  is  a  delicious  dish  if  properly 
prepared. 


48  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


COL.  T.  BENTLEY  MOTT 

American  Military  Attache,  Paris,  France 

How  to  Cook  a  Ham 

Soak  the  ham  in  cold  water  24  hours  then  wash  thoroughly. 
Put  it  in  a  boiler  with  skin  side  up  and  cover  it  with  cold  water. 
Put  it  on  slow  fire,  so  that  the  water  will  come  to  a  boil  very 
gradually.  Once  the  water  has  come  to  a  boil,  it  should  be 
allowed  to  simmer  slowly  for  about  2  hours,  after  which  it 
should  boil  more  quickly  for  2  or  3  hours,  according  to  size 
of  the  ham.  In  any  case,  whenever  a  fork  can  be  stuck  in 
readily  to  the  bone,  in  any  place,  or  when  the  hough  comes 
loose,  remove  the  boiler  from  the  fire,  and  let  the  ham  cool 
in  its  own  water.  When  cool,  remove,  and  take  off  skin  care- 
fully. Prepare  the  following  basting:  1  cup  of  sherry  sub- 
stitute and  Y2  cup  of  brown  sugar.  Cover  the  ham  with  stale 
bread  crumbs,  stick  in  cloves  all  over  ham.  Put  in  moderate 
oven  and  baste  with  the  mixture  until  a  brown  crust  is  formed. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Note:  The  method  above  is  used  in  Virginia  and  Mary- 
land, and  while  primarily  intended  for  Virginia  ham,  it  may 
successfully  be  used  with  any  other  variety. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  49 


GOVERNOR  S.  R.  McKELVEE,  State  of  Nebraska 

' '  I  am  giving  you  here  a  favorite  of  our  camp 
days  and  one  used  on  western  ranches  where  it 
is  necessary  to  have  substantial  foods  and  yet 
great  variety  cannot  be  served.  It  is  called  by  the 
cowboys  'Hungarian  Goulash.'  " — Mrs.  S.  R. 
McKelvie. 

Hungarian  Goulash 

One  lb.  of  chopped  meat  (coarse),  chopped  onion,  y±  lb. 
of  butter,  1  cup  of  cooked  rice,  macaroni  or  spaghetti,  and 
1  large  can  of  tomatoes.  Fry  onion  brown  in  butter,  until 
done,  adding  tomatoes,  rice  and  cooked  macaroni.  Season 
with  a  bit  of  garlic  and  red  pepper.  Set  on  back  of  stove 
to  cook  slowly. 


C.  M.  FREEMAN 

American  Consul  to  Sydney,  Nova  Scotia 

Ham  Trifle 

Chop  1  cup  of  boiled  ham,  3  hard-boiled  eggs  and  5  soda 
crackers.  Boil  2  cups  of  milk  and  add  to  this  a  large  piece 
of  butter ;  thicken  with  flour  1  teaspoon  and  1  teaspoon  of 
dry  mustard.  Stir  this  into  ham,  eggs  and  crackers,  adding 
1  teaspoon  of  minced  parsley.  Bake  ^  hour  in  baking  dish. 
Good  without  eggs. 

G.  BIE  RAVNDAL 

American  Consul-General,  Constantinople,  Turkey 

Meat  Balls 

To  2  lbs.  of  meat  add  %  lbs.  of  suet.  The  meat  and  suet 
should  first  be  cleaned  thoroughly  of  all  tough  pieces  and  skin, 
after  which  it  should  be  put  through  the  meat  grinder  6  or  7 
times.  Now  work  in  sweet  milk,  adding  a  little  at  a  time, 
until  mixture  is  quite  soft.  Form  in  soft  balls  and  boil  in 
slightly  salted  water.  Serve  in  a  brown  gravy  made  of  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  well  browned  into  which  has  been  stirred 
enough  flour  to  thicken  the  quantity  of  gravy  desired,  adding 
from  the  stock  or  water  in  which  the  balls  were  cooked  until 
the  right  consistency  is  reached.  The  meat  should  not  be  too 
fresh,  as  one  often  finds  freshly  butchered  meat  wet,  which 
will  not  mix  well  with  the  suet. 


50  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


COL.  H.  C.  SMITHER, 

Chief  Co-ordinator,  General  Supply,  U.  S.  Army 

Ham  Piquant 

One  lb.  thinly  sliced  cooked  ham,  4  teaspoons  dry  mus- 
tard, cold  milk  as  needed,  %  cupful  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
dash  cayenne,  14  teaspoonful  black  pepper.  Mix  the  mustard 
to  a  thick  paste  with  the  milk  and  the  seasoning.  Spread 
this  on  the  ham,  sprinkle  each  slice  with  cheese,  tie  with  a 
string  in  the  form  of  a  brick,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
till  the  ham-fat  is  melted,  basting  now  and  then  with  the  fat 
as  it  runs  out  into  the  pan.  When  cold,  remove  the  string 
and  cut  in  slices  downward  through  the  layers. 


H.  FOSTER  BAIN 

Director,   Bureau   of  Mines,   Interior   Department 

Spanish  Ragout 

Into  a  frying  pan  put  2  tablespoons  of  olive  oil ;  when 
hot  drop  in  2  chopped  onions,  and  boil  until  brown,  but  be 
careful  not  to  burn ;  when  brown  add  1  can  of  tomatoes ;  boil 
hot  drop  in  2  chopped  onions,  and  until  brown,  and  until 
slightly,  then  add  scraps  of  cold  boiled  or  toasted  left-over 
chicken,  beef,  or  lamb.  Season  and  thicken.  Serve  hot  with 
rice. 


COL.  P.  J.  MORROW,  U.  S.  Army 

American  Ravioli 

Two  cups  chopped  cooked  meat,  1  onion,  2  eggs,  %  cup 
of  flour,  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  salt,  pepper,  and  red  pepper 
to  taste,  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  y2 
cup  of  drippings  or  lard.  Run  meat  through  chopper,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  red  pepper,  moistened  with  1  egg  well  beaten. 
Beat  the  remaining  egg,  add  pinch  of  salt  and  as  much  flour 
as  the  egg  will  take  up,  then  toss  on  a  board  and  roll  very 
thin.  Cut  in  4-inch  squares,  place  an  equal  amount  of  meat 
and  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each  square  and  press  the 
corners  together  with  a  little  water.  Place  the  drippings  or 
lard  in  a  saucepan ;  add  the  sliced  onion  and  fry  until  a  golden 
brown;  then  add  the  tomatoes,  and  season  to  taste.  When 
the  sauce  is  boiling  drop  in  the  ravioli  quickly,  cover  lightly 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  51 


and  cook  10  minutes.    Serve  hot.    Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over 
the  top  if  desired. 


JAMES  J.  DAVIS 

Secretary  of  Labor 

Meat  Dish 

Grind  together  y2  lb.  of  round  steak,  y2  lb.  of  pork  and 
1  onion.  Season  to  taste.  Place  in  a  steamer.  Take  1  box 
of  macaroni,  cook  10  minutes,  place  on  top  of  the  meat.  Over 
this  pour  1  can  of  tomatoes.    Steam  iy2  hours. 


U.  S.  SENATOR  T.  E.  WATSON,  State  of  Georgia 

"Senator  Watson's  Meat  Pie" 

One  pound  of  best  round  steak,  ground  fine.  Mix  with  it  2 
good  dashes  tobasco  sauce,  y2  teaspoon  "Worcestershire  sauce, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  an  egg  thoroughly ;  dip  the  meat 
cakes  in  this,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  dip  in  egg  again,  and 
roll  again  in  cracker  crumbs  (to  insure  no  grease  getting  in 
cake).    Fry  brown  in  deep  fat,  drain  and  serve. 


CAPT.  RALPH  EARLE 

Guantanamo  Bay,  Cuba;  U.  S.  S.  Florida  (Flagship) 

Lamb  Chops  a  la  Marseilles 

Pan  broil  6  French  chops  on  each  side ;  cover  the  cooked 
side  in  the  mushroom  sauce  (see  sauces) ;  place  in  buttered 
baking  pan  and  bake  in  oven  8  minutes.  Remove  to  serving 
dish ;  place  frills  on  each  chop.     Garnish  with  parsley. 


H.  L.  WASHINGTON 

American  Consul  to  Liverpool,  England 

Calves  Brains  a  la  Bechamel 

Cut  2  cups  of  cooked  calves  brains  into  small  pieces. 
Marinette  with  French  dressing.  Melt  2  tablespoons  butter, 
add  4  tablespoons  chopped  pepper,  y2  cup  chopped  mushrooms, 


52  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


few  drops  onion  juice,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  1  cup  of 
chicken  stock.  Cook  5  minutes;  add  brains;  season  with  salt, 
cayenne,  tobasco  and  Worcestershire  sauce. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  D.  E.  AULTMAN 

Camp  Knox,  Kentucky 

Near  Possum 

This  is  a  Dixie  recipe  that  tastes  just  as  good  when  made 
north  of  Mason's  and  Dixon's  line.  For  this  toothsome  dish 
take  a  pound  slice  of  pork  steak  and  roll  it  about  the  follow- 
ing dressing:  Boil  and  peel  2  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes 
and  press  through  a  colander.  Season  them  with  2  tablespoons 
of  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  cane  syrup,  1  egg,  salt,  red 
pepper  and  a  pinch  of  ginger.  Tie  the  dressing  securely  in 
the  steak,  rub  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put  in  dripping  pan 
with  1  pt.  of  hot  water.  Bake  1%  hours  and  serve  garnished 
with  halved,  baked  apples. 


GEORGE  ORR 

American  Consul  to  Panama  City,  Panama 

Peas  and  Ham 

Melt  1  cup  butter,  blend  1  cup  flour,  add  seasoning,  and 
1  finely  chopped  green  pepper  (over  slow  fire) ;  add  gradu- 
ally 1  can  peas  with  liquor,  %  lb.  diced  boiled  ham  cut  thick, 
little  parsley  and  1  pt.  sweet  milk.  When  of  a  creamy  con- 
sistency, pour  over  toast.  A  delicious  luncheon  dish  if  prop- 
erly prepared. 

A  bird  in  the  pan  is  worth  two  in  the  bush. — Old  Proverb. 


GOVERNOR  J.  W.  PARKER,  State  of  Louisiana 
Chicken  a  la  King 

One  can  of  mushrooms,  %  can  of  pimentos  cut  in  small 
pieces,  3  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters,  1  large  sweet  (green) 
pepper  chopped,  chopped  meat  of  a  cooked  chicken.  Make  a 
cream  sauce,  adding  a  raw  egg ;  add  chicken  and  other  ingredi- 
ents.    Season  to  taste. 


THE  ALL  -  AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  53 


A.  J.  McCONNICO 

American  Consul  to  Guadalajara,  Mexico 

Turkey  or  Chicken  With  Mole  Poblano  Sauce 

Boil  a  fowl  in  water  properly  seasoned  with  salt,  1  onion 
and  1  head  of  garlic.  Seed  1  lb.  of  assorted  dried  red  and 
black  chile  peppers,  and  half  fry  in  lard.  To  this  add  small 
quantity  of  ground  cloves,  cinnamon,  a  small  piece  of  grated 
chocolate,  almonds  toasted  in  lard,  some  wild  majoram,  and 
toasted  sessame,  and  continue  to  fry  until  ingredients  form 
the  consistency  of  gravy.  Place  the  fowl  sprinkled  with  flour 
in  an  oven,  and  while  baking  pour  the  boiled  broth  over  the 
fowl  and  when  cooked  add  the  sauce. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  H.  T.  MAYO 

Chicken  Souffle 

To  1  pt.  of  cold  chicken  (chopped  fine)  add  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  i/2  salt  spoon  of  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  par- 
sley; cream  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour,  add  y2  pt. 
of  milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  this  to  chicken  and  add 
carefully  the  well  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Turn  into  a 
baking  dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  15  minutes. 


GOVERNOR  M.  C.  MECHEM,  State  of  New  Mexico 

New  Mexican  Turkey 

Select  fine  bronze  New  Mexican  turkey,  dressing  carefully 
without  breaking  skin  lest  juice  will  run  out.  After  dressing 
keep  in  cool  place  2  days.  Take  the  giblets  and  a  small  piece 
of  the  turkey  fat  and  boil  tender  in  about  1  qt.  of  water.  Chop 
giblets  and  fat  fine,  soak  2  loaves  of  very  stale  bread  in  the 
water  in  which  giblets  were  cooked,  mixing  thoroughly  with 
the  hands.  Chop  2  heads  best  New  Mexican  celery,  2  onions, 
3  cloves  of  garlic  together  and  add  to  mixture,  mixing  thor- 
oughly with  hands;  then  add  1  pt.  ripe  olives,  stoned,  and  if 
mixture  seems  too  dry  add  hot  water  to  soften  it  to  consistency 
of  stiff  batter,  but  not  that  of  dough.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
and  season  with  1  tablespoon  pulverized  oregano.  Do  not  put 
any  sage  in  it.  Stuff  turkey  very  full  with  this  dressing.  Tie 
legs  together  and  rub  bird  in  salt,  then  put  2  strips  of  bacon 


54  THE  ALL- AMEBIC  AN  COOK  BOOK 


around  body.     Use  covered  basting  pan  for  roasting.     Koast 
not  less  than  4  hours. 


MONTGOMERY  SCHUYLER 

American  Minister  to  Salvador,  Central  America 

Indian  Curry 

Shrimps  or  chicken,  1  large  onion,  1  carrot,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  curry  powder,  2  tablespoons  of 
flour,  1  cup  of  milk  and  2  cups  of  stock.  Chop  the  onion  and 
carrot  into  small  pieces  and  fry  in  butter  until  brown;  add 
curry  powder,  then  milk,  stirring  until  smooth;  add  stock  (if 
shrimps  the  water  in  which  they  have  been  boiled  in;  if 
chicken,  its  stock).  After  cooking  slowly  until  mixture  is 
smooth  and  consistency  of  rich  cream,  strain  out  pieces  of 
onion  and  carrot,  then  add  shrimps  or  chicken  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Pour  over  dry,  flaky,  cooked  rice.  The  rice  and  curry 
are  served  in  separate  dishes.    This  amount  will  serve  6  people. 

F.  F.  DUMONT 

American  Consul  to  Frankfort-on-the-Main,  Germany 

Chicken  Mousse 

One  cup  of  minced  chicken,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  ^4  teaspoon 
celery  salt,  l1/^  tablespoons  gelatine,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup 
heavy  cream,  paprika.  Make  a  custard  mixture  of  the  milk, 
egg  yolks,  and  seasonings.  In  the  meantime  soak  the  gelatine 
10  minutes  in  cold  water  to  cover,  and  then  stir  it  into  the 
custard  mixture;  add  the  chicken,  and  stir  over  cold  water 
until  the  mixture  begins  to  set,  then  fold  in  the  cream,  which 
should  be  beaten  stiff,  turn  into  a  ring-mold,  chill,  and  when 
firm  turn  out  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves.  Fill  the  center  in  the 
shredded  celery  and  a  few  broken  walnut  meats. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  C.  S.  BRADFORD,  U.  S.  Marine  Corps 
Roast  Turkey,  Virginia  Style 

Stuffing:  Crumb  1  loaf  bread;  take  %  cup  beef  suet 
shredded  fine,  little  sausage  meat  or  scraped  and  pounded  veal, 
nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  with  3  eggs  and  stuff.  Bake 
114  hours  in  hot  oven;  baste  frequently  with  hot  lard. 

Sauce:     Serve  with  sauce  made  of  crumbs  of  1  loaf  of 


THE  ALL  -  AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  55 


bread,  in  cold  water  with  a  little  salt,  1  onion  and  a  few  pepper- 
corns. Boil  until  bread  is  soft ;  beat  and  add  14  lb.  butter,  2 
spoonfuls  rich  cream  and  serve  piping  hot  with  the  turkey. 


THEODORE  ROOSEVELT,  JR. 

Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Navy 

Maryland  Chicken 

Cut  up  5  small  spring  chickens  of  1^4  lbs.  each  into  5 
pieces;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  roll  pieces  in  a 
little  flour  lightly.  Immerse  in  beaten  egg  and  then  roll  in 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  lard  8  minutes  on  each  side,  or  until 
a  golden  brown.  Pour  a  cream  sauce  in  the  center  of  dish; 
dress  chicken  in  crown  shape  over  the  sauce ;  roll  6  slices  of 
bacon  and  arrange  nicely,  also  6  corn  fritters  around  chicken. 
Serve  with  hot  cream  sauce  made  of  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  oz. 
of  butter,  1  cup  hot  milk,  seasoning  and  %  cup  of  cream. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  WM.  WIEGEL,  U.  S.  Army 

Wild  Duck 

Stuff  a  wild  duck  with  sage  dressing.  Cook  slowly  with 
1  cup  of  rich  stock,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  slices  of  lemon, 
1  bay  leaf,  8  juniper  berries  and  a  pinch  of  salt  in  a  closely 
covered  dish.  If  desired  duck  may  be  fried  a  few  minutes 
before  placing  in  dish.  Serve  with  its  own  gravy  with  giblets 
and  minced  onion  mixed  within  it. 


M.  B.  KIRK 
American  Consul  to  Rouen,  France 

Braised  Duck 

Prepare  as  for  roasting.  Line  bottom  of  small,  high  roast- 
ing pan  with  slices  of  bacon  and  strew  with  thyme,  lemon  peel 
and  parsley.  Put  in  the  duck,  also  1  carrot  cut  in  slices,  1 
onion  stuck  with  4  cloves;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  enough 
stock  and  1  glass  of  white  wine  substitute.  Let  simmer  for 
about  1  hour,  baste  frequently.  Just  before  the  duck  is  cooked 
enough,  fry  2  or  3  sliced  turnips  in  butter  to  a  light  brown, 
8  or  10  minutes;  drain  and  add  to  the  gravy  after  the  duck 


56  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


has  been  removed  from  the  pan.  Cook  the  gravy,  adding  stock, 
until  the  turnips  are  tender;  strain,  pour  over  the  hot  duck, 
and  use  turnips  as  garnish. 


LT.  J.  McCLOY 

Commander  U.  S.  S.  Cormorant 

Boneless  Chicken 

Hang  a  chicken  by  its  head.  Cut  down  center  of  back; 
scrape  meat  from  the  bone  on  both  sides,  disjoint  thighbones 
and  pull  through  meat;  do  same  with  wings.  Cook  1  slightly 
beaten  egg  in  skillet  and  place  inside  of  chicken.  Fill  chicken 
with  dressing  in  all  parts  where  bone  has  been  removed. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  C.  GRAYSON 

Medical  Director,  U.  S.  Naval  Dispensary 

Chicken  Loaf 

Boil  1  fowl  in  water  until  meat  falls  from  bones.  Take 
up  chicken,  chopped  not  too  fine ;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  the 
broth  in  which  chicken  has  been  boiled.  Use  %  box  Cox's 
gelatine  or  boil  1  knuckle  of  veal  with  chicken.  Boil  down  to 
iy2  pts,  season  and  taste,  add  meat  to  broth;  line  mold  or 
bread  pan  with  sliced  boiled  carrots  and  beets  and  sliced  lemon 
cut  in  fancy  shapes.  When  cold  and  congealed  turn  out  on 
patter  and  sice.    Veal  may  be  used  instead  of  chicken. 


LT.-COLONEL  E.  R.  W.  McCABE 

American  Military  Attache,  Prague,  Czecho-Slovakia 

Pigeon 

Cut  2  ozs.  of  streaky  bacon  into  dice,  and  fry  with  a  little 
butter  in  a  pan;  when  almost  done,  add  1  minced  very  small 
onion  and  fry  likewise.  Add  the  pigeon's  liver,  cleaned  and 
sliced  beforehand ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  powdered 
savory,  cook  5  minutes  over  quick  fire.  Put  all  in  a  mortar, 
pound  till  fine,  rub  through  a  fine  wire  sieve.  With  this  force- 
meat (meat  chopped  fine  and  seasoned),  fill  the  pigeon,  truss 
and  roast  it,  frequently  basting  with  melted  butter.     When 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  57 


nearly  done,  take  out  and  let  cool.  Then  brush  with  beaten 
egg  and  roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  deep  fat  10  minutes; 
drain,  untruss  and  serve  with  or  without  gravy  or  sauce. 


R.  L.  SPRAGUE 

American  Consul  to  Gibraltar 

Chicken  and  Rice 

Pick  clean  and  singe  2  fowls,  cut  in  moderate  sized  pieces. 
Put  1  tablespoon  lard  into  stewpan  and  brown  small  piece 
of  onion  (chopped).  When  browned  add  %  lb.  tomatoes, 
having  previously  peeled  them,  taken  out  the  pips  and  cut 
them  into  small  pieces.  When  these  begin  to  fry  add  the  cut 
up  chicken,  adding  pepper,  salt  and  allspice  to  taste.  Stir 
all  briskly  and  leave  all  to  simmer  for  %  0I*  an  tour,  stirring 
occasionally.  Then  add  sufficient  hot  water  to  cover  all,  and 
allow  it  to  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  (stirring  from  time  to  time) 
for  about  V/2  hours.  When  the  chicken  begins  to  get  tender 
add  %  lb.  of  rice  and  let  all  remain  on  the  fire  about  20  min- 
utes. Add  a  sprig  of  parsley,  which  should  be  taken  out  when 
the  stew  is  served.  If  it  seems  too  dry  a  little  water  may  be 
added  while  it  is  simmering.  Great  care  must  be  taken  that 
the  stew  shall  not  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  and  also 
that  the  chickens  may  be  perfectly  tender  without  falling  to 
pieces. 


LESTER  MAYNARD 
American  Consul  to  Alexandria,  Egypt 

Roast  Turkey  Stuffed  With  Oysters 

Select  a  plump  turkey,  draw  and  wash  thoroughly.  Pre- 
pare stuffing  in  the  following  manner :  Put  1  pt.  of  good,  fresh 
oysters  in  a  pan  and  stew  in  their  own  liquor,  drain  off  the 
liquor  and  cut  the  oysters  into  bits,  add  y2  cup  of  best  butter, 
a  sliced  onion  and  spoonful  of  powdered  thyme  (seasoning  for 
dressings  and  soups)  ;  let  all  simmer  together;  moisten  3  pints 
of  dry  or  stale  bread  crumbs  with  the  oyster  liquor,  add  the 
oysters  and  onion,  also  3  eggs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  mix  all  thoroughly  together;  if  the  stuffing  is  too  dry, 
add  milk;  if  otherwise,  bread  crumbs;  stuff  the  turkey,  sew 
up  the  openings,  rub  butter  over  the  outside,  dredge  with  salt, 


58  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


pepper  and  flour,  put  in  a  pan  with  1  pt.  of  water,  place  in 
the  oven.  Allow  15  minutes  to  the  pound  for  roasting  or  boil- 
ing a  young  turkey;  more  for  an  old  one.  Baste  every  10  or 
15  minutes. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  A.  A.  FRIES 

Chief  of  Chemical  Warfare  Service,  U.  S.  Army 

Economy  Fried  Chicken 

Take  a  fowl  known  to  the  poultry  people  as  "old  rooster," 
but  is  seldom  as  old  as  he  looks,  for  the  reason  that  people 
will  not  feed  roosters  for  years.  The  price  is  just  about  half 
that  of  hens.  Disjoint  as  for  ordinary  frying  chicken,  except 
to  cut  the  breast  in  2  pieces.  After  washing  and  while  still 
wet,  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  in  flour.  Fry  in  small  amount 
of  bacon  drippings  until  each  piece  is  light  brown,  but  take 
care  not  to  scorch.  Now  put  in  tightly  covered  casserole  with 
small  amount  of  water  and  bake  slowly  3  hours,  when  it  will 
be  found  very  tender  and  of  a  flavor  almost  equalling  a  spring 
frier. 


DAVID  J.  D.  MYERS 

American  Consul  to  Montevideo,  Uruguay 

Chicken  Brunswick  Stew 

Disjoint  a  large  chicken  as  for  frying.  In  a  large,  shallow 
pot  place  a  layer  of  salt  pork  diced;  over  the  pork  scatter  a 
small  onion  chopped  fine;  over  the  onion  a  layer  of  diced 
potatoes;  these  should  be  covered  with  a  layer  of  green  corn 
cut  from  the  cob.  Then  comes  a  layer  of  butter  beans  (or 
Lima),  and  last  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes.  Wipe  the  chicken 
dry,  dip  in  flour,  and  arrange  in  pot  on  top  of  the  tomatoes. 
Then  begin  with  the  diced  pork  again  and  repeat  each  layer. 
Pour  2  qts.  of  boiling  water  over  all  and  cover  pot  closely. 
Merely  simmer  for  3  hours,  then  remove  cover  and  season 
well  with  pepper,  salt,  a  dessert  spoon  of  sugar  and  a  little 
Worcestershire  sauce  or  tomato  catsup.  Cover  the  pot  again 
and  simmer  for  at  least  an  hour  longer.  Just  before  serving 
rub  3  tablespoons  butter  into  2  of  flour  and  add  to  the  stew; 
cook  gently  a  few  minutes  and  serve  hot. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

SALADS 

If  any  would  not  work,  neither  should  he  eat. 

— Old  Proverb. 


A  TALK  ON  SALADS 
By  Lady  Polly 

(Editor's  Note:  L.  P.  is  none  other  than  Mrs.  Lewis 
Clarke  Lucas  of  "Washington,  D.  C,  author  of  the  fine  little 
book  "All  About  Salads."  The  reprint  here  is  with  her  kind 
permission.) 

There  are  salads  galore.  Meat,  fowl  and  fish  salads;  egg, 
cheese  and  vegetable  salads;  nut  and  fruit  salads.  Combined 
with  lettuce,  cress,  endive,  celery;  with  a  dressing  of  salt, 
pepper,  oil  and  acids,  many  varied  dishes  may  be  made  which 
are  pleasing  to  the  eye  and  delicious  to  the  taste. 

The  salad  dressings  mostly  used  are  the  French  and  the 
mayonnaise.  The  first  is  made  by  placing  salt  and  pepper  in 
a  bowl  and  adding  oil  gradually  until  the  salt  is  dissolved, 
then  vinegar,  stirring  so  that  the  oil  may  be  thoroughly 
incorporated. 

The  mayonnaise  is  made  by  adding  oil  slowly,  drop  by 
drop,  to  the  yolks  of  eggs  until  you  have  a  mixture  about  the 
consistency  of  custard  and  with  no  sign  of  oil  or  vinegar.  It 
is  essential  that  the  best  Italian  oil  be  used. 

Condensed  cream  may  be  used  in  dressings  requiring 
cream,  although  the  fresh  is  to  be  preferred.     The  dressing 


60  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


must  not  be  mixed  with  the  salad  until  immediately  before 
serving,  and  both  the  salad  bowl  and  the  ingredients  must  be 

as  cold  as  possible.  The  rule  with  few  exceptions  is,  that  all 
meat  and  fish  salads  should  be  served  with  mayonnaise,  and 
all  vegetables  with  French  dressing. 

Many  salads  are  improved  by  marinating.  The  marinade 
should  be  mixed  with  the  ingredients  and  set  on  the  ice  for 
awhile  before  serving.  For  instance,  in  making  chicken  salad, 
the  chicken  should  be  diced,  mixed  with  the  marinade  and 
chilled.  Celery,  or  any  vegetable  that  should  be  crisp,  must 
not  be  added  until  the  salad  is  ready  to  be  served,  as  the 
marinade  would  wither  it.  All  fish  and  meat  salads,  without 
exception,  should  be  marinated,  and  all  vegetables  that  are  not 
to  be  served  crisp.  Tomatoes  are  so  much  improved  by  this 
process  that  there  is  no  comparison.  When  tomatoes  are  to  be 
served  whole  they  should  stand  in  the  marinade  at  least  one 
hour. 

Lettuce  or  endive,  with  French  dressing,  is  an  everyday, 
simple  salad ;  those  composed  of  meats  mixed  with  green  vege- 
tables, such  as  lettuce  with  mayonnaise,  are  supper  and  lunch- 
eon salads  and  should  never  follow  a  heavy  dinner.  "When 
served  with  roast,  green  salads  are  greatly  improved  by  com- 
pounding mint  or  tarragon  vinegar  with  the  French  dressing. 

For  those  who  are  unable  to  use  oil  there  are  many  dress- 
ings which  may  be  prepared  without  it.  My  advice,  however, 
to  such  persons  would  be  that  they  cultivate  a  taste  for  the  oil. 

In  many  homes  salad  is  always  a  part  of  the  luncheon 
and  dinner  menu.  Very  little  time  is  required  in  their  prepa- 
ration and  they  are  inexpensive.  All  classes  of  French  serve 
salads  daily  and  they  are  presumed  to  be  most  economical  in 
matters  pertaining  to  the  table. 

On  a  hot  summer  day,  instead  of  eating  a  heavy  dinner, 
let  the  meal  consist  of  a  light  soup,  a  vegetable  or  fish  salad, 
and  iced  cocoa,  and  see  how  much  better  you  feel.  Go  into  a 
cafe  on  a  hot  day,  observe  the  American  who  rushes  in  mopping 
his  brow  with  his  already  saturated  handkerchief,  makes  loud 
complaints  of  the  heat,  orders  a  heavy  dinner,  and  bolts  it 
while  fanning  himself  vigorously. 

Our  grandmothers  gave  much  thought  to  the  medicinal 
properties  of  the  "greens"  served  at  heir  tables.  Parsley, 
mustard,  cowslip,  horse  radish,  dock,  dandelion  and  beet  tops 
clear  the  blood  and  regulate  the  system.  Why  not  make  use 
of  the  remedies  that  nature  supplies  so  lavishly,  and  lessen  our 
druggist  bills? 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  61 


Lettuce  is  a  well-known  nerve  food,  and  should  be  seen 
on  our  tables  more  frequently.  There  is  such  a  variety  of 
ways  in  which  to  serve  it  that  one  is  not  likely  to  tire  of  it. 

Always  be  especially  careful  in  preparing  greens  for  salads 
that  they  are  thoroughly  washed,  and  have  no  gritty  substance 
clinging  to  the  leaves.  I  have  often  known  very  attractive- 
looking  salads  to  be  spoiled  completely  by  carelessness  in  this 
particular. 

Cucumbers  are  very  delicious  and  may  be  served  raw  in 
various  ways.  They  are  considered  unhealthy  by  many,  but 
unless  they  are  old  and  withered  they  are  very  digestible. 
There  is  a  prevalent  superstition  that  cucumbers  must  be 
sliced  and  laid  in  salt  water  for  hours  before  serving.  They 
are  simply  ruined  by  this  process.  Keep  them  cool,  on  the 
ice  if  possible,  and  peel  and  slice  them  just  before  serving, 
when  they  will  be  crisp  and  delightful. 

String  beans  supply  iron.  One  of  our  most  valuable  vege- 
tables, spinach,  may  be  boiled  and  served  cold  with  French 
dressing.  It  contains  iron.  Cabbage,  cauliflower  and  spinach 
are  all  good  for  impoverished  blood,  and  may  be  served  as 
salads.  Celery  finds  a  place  in  many  salads.  It  is  a  nerve 
food  and  overcomes  rheumatic  and  neuralgic  tendencies. 

The  tomato  is  not  only  a  delicious  vegetable,  but  a  valu- 
able one.  Health  authorities  tell  us  that  tomatoes  stimulate 
the  healthy  action  of  the  liver. 

Carrots  form  blood,  improve  the  complexion,  and  boiled 
in  salted  water  and  cut  into  dice  blend  very  well  with  other 
vegetables  in  a  salad.  Carrots  and  beets  may  be  grated  and 
sprinkled  over  many  salads  to  advantage,  adding  a  touch  of 
color. 

Asparagus  benefits  the  kidneys,  and  may  also  be  served 
in  various  salads. 

Fruit  salads  are  very  good  on  hot  days.  They  are  palata- 
ble and  are  very  easily  made  from  any  fruits  in  season. 

Nuts  may  be  added  to  any  salad.  They  are  nourishing, 
tissue  building,  and  by  many  are  preferred  to  meat  as  a  food. 

Pretty  effects  are  gained  by  hollowing  out  one  vegetable 
and  using  another  as  stuffing. 

"Left  overs"  come  in  very  nicely  for  a  hastily  gotten  up 
salad.  A  spoonful  of  cold  peas,  a  chopped  carrot,  a  few  string 
beans  and  a  bit  of  cauliflower  may  be  mixed,  a  French  dressing 
poured  over  it,  and  prove  a  very  delightful,  as  well  as  econom- 
ical, addition  to  the  menu. 


62  THE  ALL-AMEKICAN  COOK  BOOK 


CHARLES  S.  WILSON 

American  Ambassador  to  Bulgaria 

Hot  Fruit  Salad 

Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  4  tablespoons  of  sugar, 

1/4  cup  of  water,  and  *4  cup  of  lemon  juice ;  add  2  cups  mixed 

fruit,  apples,  bananas,  figs  and  cherries.    When  hot  serve  with 

cream  sweetened  and  beaten  until  stiff. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  H.  W.  KEYES,  State  of  New  Hampshire 

Cream  of  Cucumber  Salad 

One  cucumber  cut  in  small  pieces,  y2  pt.  of  cream  whipped, 
2  teaspoons  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  milk  and  water, 
y2  pimento  cut  in  small  pieces,  y2  teaspoon  of  tarragon  vinegar, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Mix  and  let  stand  in  mold  12  hours. 

GOVERNOR  T.  F.  KILBY,  State  of  Alabama 

Fruit  Salad 

One  can  of  sliced  pineapple,  1  stalk  of  celery,  juice  of  1 
grape  fruit,  y2  cup  of  pecan  nuts,  1  can  of  white  cherries 
(seeded),  juice  of  1  lemon.  Cut  pineapple  in  squares  with 
scissors;  dissolve  a  little  gelatine  with  juice  of  lemon  and 
grape  fruit  and  add  nuts,  celery,  pinapple,  and  grapes.  Pour 
this  mixture  into  a  mold  and  when  congealed  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  H.  L.  ROGERS 

Quartermaster-General,  U.  S.  Army 

Frozen  Salad  (A  Warm  Weather  Salad) 
One  pound  of  white  grapes  (seeded),  1  can  of  pineapple 
(cut  in  cubes),  1  cake  of  Neufchatel  cheese  or  Philadelphia 
cream  cheese,  1  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  1  pt.  of  whipped 
cream.  Stir  all  together  and  freeze.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  biscuits. 

GEORGE  E.  CHAMBERLIN 

American  Consul  to  Glasgow,  Scotland 

Apricot  Salad 

One  can  apricots,  15  chopped  marshmallows,  y2  cup  of 
chopped  pecans,  4  egg  yolks,  4  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoon sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  1  tea- 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  63 


spoon  butter,  few  grains  of  red  peper,  1  cup  of  whipped  cream, 
crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Drain  the  apricots  and  lay  them  on  the 
lettuce  leaves.  Put  the  egg  yolks  into  a  double  boiler,  add  the 
vinegar,  sugar,  salt,  mustard,  red  pepper  and  butter,  and  stir 
over  the  fire  until  they  have  cooked  5  minutes.  Allow  to  cool 
and  then  add  the  whipped  cream  and  beat  all  thoroughly 
together.  Next  add  marshmallows  and  nuts.  Place  a  spoonful 
of  the  dressing  on  each  plate  of  salad. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  G.  R.  CLARK,  U.  S.  Navy 
Cucumber  Jelly  Salad 

One  large  cucumber,  ^  finely  chopped  onion  (medium 
sized),  finely  chopped  green  pepper,  put  through  meat  grinder 
and  seasoned  highly  with  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  red  pepper, 
black  pepper,  salt  and  paprika.  Soak  1  pkg.  of  Knox's  gela- 
tine in  cold  water,  then  pour  on  1  cup  of  boiling  water  and 
stir  in  cucumber  mixture.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

GOVERNOR  C.  A.  MABEY,  State  of  Utah 
Tomato  Salad 

One  quart  of  tomatoes,  1  teaspoon  each  of  sugar,  salt, 
pepper  and  paprika,  5  cloves,  1  sliced  small  onion.  Boil  all 
for  15  minutes,  then  strain  and  add  to  juice  1  package  of 
Knox's  gelatine.  Pour  into  molds  and  allow  to  stand  24 
hours.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  Thousand  Island  dressing. 

NEWTON  BAKER 

Former  Secretary  of  War 

Jellied  Grape  Fruit  or  Orange  Salad 

To  1  pt.  of  the  juice  of  a  grape  or  orange  use  l1/^  table- 
spoons of  gelatine.  Pour  into  small  molds  with  cherry  in  the 
bottom.     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  J.  H.  McRAE,  U.  S.  Army 

Nut  Gelatine  Salad 

Soak  1  envelope  of  Knox's  gelatine  in  2  tablespoons  cold 
water,  then  pour  on  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Add  to  the  gela- 
tine 1  cup  chopped  walnut  meats,  5  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs, 
1  can  pimentos,  3  sweet  pickles,  %  cup  small  pickled  onions 
(chopped  fine),  a  little  chutney  (if  liked),  *4  cup  of  vinegar, 


64  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


salt,  paprika  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  stand  until  cold  then 
stir  in  1  cup  of  stiff,  well-seasoned  mayonnaise  and  set  on 
ice  to  harden,  and  when  cold,  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mayonnaise. 

MRS.  L.  C.  LUCAS   (Lady  Polly) 

Sweetbread  Salad 

Let  1  pair  of  sweetbreads  stand  in  cold  water  for  y%  hour. 
Take  them  out,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  for  half  an 
hour.  Take  out  the  sweetbreads  and  in  their  place  put  1  lb. 
blanched  almonds,  1  slice  of  red  onion,  2  bay  leaves  and  1  slice 
of  lemon.  Boil  for  20  minutes.  When  cold  chop  the  sweet- 
breads and  almonds  fine,  mix,  put  on  a  bed  of  cress  or  lettuce 
and  pour  over  mayonnaise. 

XT.  S.  SENATOR  J.  £.  RANSDELL,  State  of  Louisiana 

Utopian  Salad 

Take  %  doz.  oranges,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  free  from 
all  seeds  and  stringy  parts,  1  pineapple  shredded,  1/2  lb.  of 
minced  walnut  meats  and  1  bottle  of  cherries.  Serve  with  a 
dressing  made  of  4  beaten  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  2 
tablespoons  of  water.  Remove  from  the  stove  and  stir  in  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg.  When  cold  and  ready  to  serve  add  1  pt. 
of  whipped  cream. 

H.  B.  QUARTON 

American  Consul  to  Viborg,  Finland 

Dixie  Salad 

Prepare  a  head  of  lettuce  in  the  shape  of  a  basket  and  fill 
with  kernels  of  corn  mixed  with  light  Russian  dressing.  Gar- 
nish with  strips  of  red  and  green  peppers. 

HORACE  REMILLARD 

American  Consul  to  Huelva,  Spain 
Duchess  Salad 

Cut  up  celery  and  apples  into  fine  slices,  add  broken 
English  walnut  meats  and  soak  in  French  dressing  just  before 
the  meal.  Before  serving  add  a  mayonnaise  decorated  with 
grated  truffles. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  65 

COL.  J.  B.  ALLISON,  U.  S.  Army 
Tango  Salad 

Three  ripe,  juicy  pears ;  cream  or  Roquefort  cheese,  lettuce, 
y%  cup  mayonnaise,  14  cup  olive  oil,  1  teaspoonful  vinegar,  % 
teaspoon  salt,  }4  teaspoon  mustard,  %  teaspoon  paprika,  %  cup 
chili  sauce,  pimentos,  lemon.  Pare,  halve  and  core  the  pears; 
squeeze  lemon  juice  over  them  to  keep  them  from  discoloring. 
Place  a  ball  of  cream  cheese  or  a  few  cubes  of  Roquefort  cheese 
in  the  cavity  of  each  half  pear.  Set  these  on  heart  leaves  of 
lettuce  and  pour  the  dressing  over  them. 

For  Dressing:  Mix  together  the  olive  oil,  vinegar,  salt, 
mustard,  paprika  and  chili  sauce;  beat  and  blend  well,  then 
gradually  beat  this  mixture  into  the  mayonnaise.  Garnish 
the  salad  and  dressing  generously  with  juilienne  strips  of 
pimentos,  rinse  them  in  cold  water  and  dry  on  cloth,  then  cut 
with  scissors  into  strips.  Large  pears  canned  in  halves  may 
be  used  in  this  salad.    Remove  from  can  and  drain  well. 


CAPT.  W.  M.  CROSE 

Commandant  U.  S.  Naval  District,  Cavite,  Philippine  Islands 

Cheese  Salad 

One  tablespoon  gelatine,  %  cup  cold  water,  1  cup  boiling 
water,  y%  teaspon  salt,  y2  lb.  cheese  (grated),  %  can  pimentos 
(cut  in  bits),  1  cup  cream,  whipped.  Combine  first  4  ingredi- 
ents, set  aside  to  solidify.  When  mixture  has  set,  beat  until 
fluffy  with  beater.  Fold  in  grated  cheese,  pimentos  and 
whipped  cream.  Let  stand  until  set.  To  serve,  heap  lightly  on 
head  lettuce.  Place  half  a  peach  at  side  and  a  spoonful  of 
boiled  dressing  on  top. 


DAVID  B.  McGOWAN 

American  Consul  to  Vladivostok,  Siberia 

Salmagundi  Salad 

One  cup  diced  tomatoes,  1  cup  chopped  celery,  1  cup 
shredded  new  cabbage,  1  small  cucumber  diced,  3  hard-boiled 
eggs,  4  small  pickles,  ^  minced  onion,  dressing,  lettuce,  1 
minced  pimento.  Combine  the  vegetables,  chili,  and  mix  with 
dressing.    Arrange  on  a  lettuce  bed  and  garnish  with  the  dress- 


66  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


ing  and  the  hard-cooked  eggs,  cut  in  strips  lengthwise,  and  the 
pickles,  which  should  be  sliced  in  thin  rounds.  The  "sweet- 
sour"  dressing,  which  is  much  enjoyed  with  this  salad,  calls 
for  a  cup  of  vinegar,  %  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  table- 
spoon flour,  y2  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  4  egg- 
yolks.  These  should  be  cooked  like  a  custard,  cooled  and  a 
cup  of  whipped  sweet  or  slightly  sour  cream  should  be  added 
just  before  serving. 


COL.  H.  C.  SMTTHER 

Chief  Co-ordinator,  General  Supply,  U.  S.  Army 

Cascade  Salad 

Prepare  a  head  of  lettuce  in  the  shape  of  a  basket,  fill  with 
alligator  pears  scooped  out  in  the  form  of  little  balls.  Garnish 
on  the  top  with  a  nice  slice  of  goose  liver  pate  and  with  truffles. 
Pour  over  it  French  dressing  with  paprika. 


ALBERT  HALSTEAD 
American  Consul-General  to  Montreal,  Canada 

Raisin,  Chestnut  and  Apple  Salad 

One  cup  of  selected  raisins,  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  chestnuts, 
2  cups  of  apple,  y2  cup  of  French  dressing,  y2  cup  of  Malaga 
grapes,  shredded  lettuce.  Cover  the  raisins  with  half  of  the 
French  dressing.  Let  stand  for  1  hour.  Mix  the  chestnuts, 
peeled,  and  the  apples  with  the  rest  of  the  French  dressing. 
Mix  well,  and  place  on  lettuce.  Garnish  with  grapes  cut  in 
halves  and  the  seeds  removed.    Dust  with  paprika. 


CONGRESSMAN  F.  W.  MONDELL,  State  of  Wyoming 

Red  Cherry  Salad 

One  can  red  cherries  or  1  pt.  stewed,  fresh  cherries  and 
juice,  1*4  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine,  1  cup  orange  juice, 
1  cup  sugar,  shelled  pecans,  lettuce,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 
whipped  cream  mayonnaise.  Strain  the  juice  from  the  cherries 
(there  should  be  one  cup),  add  the  sugar,  and  let  come  to 
a  boil.  In  the  meantime  soak  the  gelatine  in  the  orange  and 
lemon  juice  and  pit  the  cherries,  replacing  the  stones  with 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  67 


pecan-meats.  Add  gelatine  to  sirup,  put  the  stuffed  cherries 
into  individual  molds,  pour  syrup  over  while  hot,  and  when 
stiff  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing  diluted  with 
whipped  cream. 


U.  S.  SENATOR  W.  E.  EDGE,  State  of  New  Jersey 
Oeufs  Gourmet 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs,  %  cup  grated  American  cheese,  5 
tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  few  grains  pepper,  few  grains  mace, 
few  grains  paprika,  olive  oil,  lettuce  and  stuffed  olives,  ^ 
teaspoon  salt.  Split  the  eggs  in  halves  lengthwice.  Remove 
the  yolks,  mash  them,  and  combine  with  the  cheese,  seasonings, 
and  catsup,  adding  olive  oil  to  moisten  as  necessary.  Roll  into 
oval  balls,  lay  them  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  garnish  each 
with  half  a  stuffed  olive.  Serve  in  nests  of  lettuce  with  cheese 
straws.  The  cheese  mixture  alone  or  with  the  egg-yolks  makes 
delicious  sandwiches,  or  the  whole  may  be  served  with  mayon- 
naise as  a  salad. 


COL.  PETER  MURRAY 

U.  S.  Army,  Governor's  Island,  N.  Y. 

Rice  or  Novelty  Salad 

Four  cups  of  rice,  y2  cup  of  chopped  carrots  or  beets, 
2  cups  of  watercress  or  shredded  lettuce,  6  olives,  %  cup 
of  French  dressing,  1  cupful  of  mayonnaise,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
onions.  Pile  rice  in  the  center  of  the  dish  lined  with  lettuce ; 
place  vegetables  around,  then  a  circle  of  rice,  with  watercress 
or  lettuce  around  edge.  Pour  on  French  dressing  with  grated 
onion ;  garnish.     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 


BRIG.  GENERAL  F.  J.  KERNAN 

U.  S.  Army 

Shamrock  Salad 

Fill  sweet  green  peppers  with  a  well-blended  mixture  of 
half  a  cupful  of  minced  nuts,  a  ten-cent  cream  cheese,  and  a 
tablespoon  of  butter.     Cut  with  a  sharp  knife  thin  crosswise 


68  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

slices,  resulting  in  a  green  clover-shaped  rim  with  a  cheese 
center.  Lay  these  on  a  lettuce  bed,  and  dress  with  mayonnaise 
to  which  pounded  parsley  has  been  added  to  give  a  green  color. 

BEAR  ADMIRAL  H.  P.  HUSE,  U.  S.  Navy 

Individual  Sardine  and  Tomato  Salad 

Three  sardines,  1  medium  sized  tomato,  2  olives,  y2  tea- 
spoons chopped  onion,  2  teaspoons  chopped  celery  or  cabbage, 
1  teaspoon  chopped  green  pepper  or  pimento,  %  teaspoon 
sugar,  2  teaspoons  thick  mayonnaise,  shredded  lettuce,  1  sprig 
parsley,  additional  mayonnaise.  Peel  the  tomato,  cut  off  the 
top,  scoop  out  the  inside,  and  mix  with  one  of  the  olives, 
chopped,  the  onion,  celery,  pepper,  sugar,  and  mayonnaise. 
Return  to  tomato,  and  set  it  in  a  nest  of  shredded  lettuce. 
Place  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  on  the  top,  and  sprinkle  with 
the  parsley,  minced.  Surmount  with  the  other  olive,  and 
lean  three  sardines  against  the  tomato  to  give  a  tent-like 
appearance. 

F.  M.  RYDER 

American  Consul-General  to  Vancouver,  Canada 
Stuffed  Peppers  for  a  Salad  Course  or  Garnish 
Take  the  tiny  sweet  peppers,  red  or  green,  and  with  a 
small  sharp  knife  scrape  out  all  the  seeds  and  soft  fiber,  leav- 
ing only  the  shells.  Now  chop  as  many  butternuts,  black  wal- 
nuts or  English  walnuts  as  are  desired,  salt  lightly  and  fill  the 
pepper  cases,  which  should  have  been  all  slit  on  one  side  so  as 
not  to  destroy  the  pretty  stem  end  of  the  pepper.  The  salt, 
the  pepper  and  the  nut  make  a  delicious  combination,  sure  to 
please.  These  pepper  garnishes  should  be  prepared  several 
hours  before  using. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  J.  H.  PENDLETON 

Commanding  General,  U.  S.  Marine  Corps,  2nd  Base  Force, 

San  Diego,  Calif. 

Forced  Cucumbers 

Cut  off  one  end  of  a  large  perfectly  ripe  cucumber  and 

take  out  the  seeds  with  a  vegetable  scoop ;  fill  the  cavity  with 

a  croquette  mixture  of  chicken  or  veal;  replace  the  end  and 

fasten  with  three  toothpicks.     Put  in  a  steamer  and  cook. 

Cook  till  tender;  the  water  must  not  touch  the  cucumber. 

This  may  be  served  hot  as  an  entree  with  a  Hollandaise  sauce, 

or  cold  sliced,  as  a  salad,  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  on  a 

lettuce  leaf. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

SALAD    DRESSING 

Fools  make  feasts  and  wise  men  eat  them. — Benj.  Franklin. 


U.   S.   SENATOR  0.   E.   TOWNSEND, 

State  of  Michigan 

Chairman,  Committee  on  Post  Offices 

and  Post  Roads 

Mayonnaise  for  Blue  Monday  Salad 
Cut  up  some  lively  capers,  add  to  these  a 
sauce  made  of  the  milk  of  human  kindness  and 
thickened  with  peace  oil  and  spiced  to  taste, 
when  using  this  mayonnaise  always  serve  some 
peals  of  fresh  laughter  with  the  salad.  If  you 
find  it  impossible  to  obtain  the  fresh  peals  use 
some  you  have  sundried  for  emergencies. 


GOVERNOR  A.  M.  HYDE,  State  or  Missouri 

Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Eight  ground  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  box  sliced  pimentos,  1 
cup  Ferndell  chile  sauce,  1  bottle  sliced  small  pickled  onions, 
juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  of  olive  oil,  paprika,  salt,  and  cayenne 
pepper  to  taste.  Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  olive  oil,  drop  by 
drop,  until  thickened;  add  lemon  juice;  continue  beating  and 
add  rest  of  olive  oil.    Add  above  ingredients. 


COL.  F.  J.  MORROW,  U.  S.  Army 

Roquefort  Cheese  Dressing 

One  tablespoon  of  Roquefort  cheese  creamed  with  a  fork; 


70  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


add  paprika,  salt,  mustard,  pepper,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  3  table- 
spoons olive  oil  to  6  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  ♦ 


CONGRESSMAN  D.  B.  COLTON,  State  of  Utah 

Salad  Dressing  for  Lettuce  or  Tomatoes 

One  cup  of  whipping  cream,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  y2  lemon, 
a  little  butter  coloring.  Mix  sugar  and  cream  and  lemon 
juices  and  coloring. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  E.  M.  LEWIS 

U.  S.  Army,  Camp  Travis,  Texas 

Three-Minute  Mayonnaise 

One  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  dash  of  pepper,  1 
tablespoon  lemon  juice,  1  whole  egg,  1  yolk  of  egg,  l1/^  cups 
olive  oil.  Put  the  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  and  lemon  juice  in 
a  bowl,  then  add  the  egg  and  egg  yolk,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  yolk.  Pour  in  14  of  the  oil  and  beat  with  Dover  egg 
beater  until  stiff,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  oil,  14  cup  at  a  time. 


COL.  J.  B.  ALLISON,  U.  S.  Army 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

One  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
vinegar  and  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Beat  all  thoroughly  together 
and  put  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly. 
When  cool  add  pint  of  very  stiff  whipped  cream.  This  is  the 
most  delicious  salad  dressing  for  fruit  that  can  be  made. 


LT.  J.  McCLOY 

Commander  U.  S.  S.  Cormorant 

Potato  Salad  Dressing 

Yolk  of  1  egg,  pinch  of  salt,  mustard  and  pepper.  Mix 
salad  oil  until  it  thickens,  adding  1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Gar- 
nish with  hard-boiled  eggs,  parsley,  celery  and  grated  onion. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  71 


PRESIDING  JUDGE  MARION  DE  VRIES 

U.  S.  Court  of  Appeals,  Washington 

"This  recipe  was  one  mother  used.  It  is 
probably  a  familiar  one  to  Southerners  of  years 
ago.  It  is  one  of  the  prized  ones  of  her  collec- 
tion." Marion  De  Vries. 

Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw  (Cabbage  Salad) 

One  cup  of  cream,  $4  cup  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  mixed 
mustard,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  yolks  of  4 
hard-boiled  eggs,  dash  of  pepper,  y2  cup  of  vinegar.  Have 
cream  and  butter  almost  to  boiling,  mash  yolks  of  eggs  fine, 
add  sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  mustard,  blend  thoroughly,  then 
pour  over  this  heated  cream  and  butter.  Have  cabbage  finely 
chopped;  over  this  pour  y2  cup  hot  vinegar.  When  it  cools 
stir  cream  dressing  in  thoroughly.  Garnish  top  with  white  of 
eggs.     This  is  much  better  if  made  the  day  before. 

H.  DIEDERICH 

American  Consul  to  Sarnia,  Ont.,  Canada 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 
One  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  y2  teaspoon 
salt,  iy2  teaspoons  to  1  tablespoon  dry  mustard.  Mix  these 
dry  ingredients  together.  One  or  2  eggs  well  beaten  and  add 
to  the  dry  ingredients.  One  cup  of  vinegar  (if  too  strong  add 
half  cup  each  of  vinegar  and  water).  Let  this  come  to  a  boil 
and  put  the  above  mixed  ingredients  into  this  vinegar,  boil 
until  thickened,  remove  from  fire  and  add  fairly  large  piece  of 
butter,  and  beat  well  for  5  minutes.  When  you  wish  to  use 
this  add  milk  for  thinning  or  cream,  or  sour  cream.  Season 
with  "Lea  and  Perrins"  sauce.  For  Thousand  Island  dress- 
ing add  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise,  1  tablespoon  drained  chile 
sauce,  chopped  sweet  pickles,  olives  and  green  peppers. 

COL.  I.  N.  LEWIS,  U.  S.  Army 
Russian  Salad  Dressing 

Note :  This  recipe  prepared  for  Mrs.  Lewis  by  the  chef 
at  the  Waldorf,  New  York  City. 

Two  tablespoons  of  mayonnaise,  2  tablespoons  confection- 
er's sugar,  2  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  of 
horseradish,  6  tablespoons  of  whipped  cream  and  6  tablespoons 
of  chile  sauce.  Season  with  salt,  paprika,  onion  juice  and 
pepper. 


72  THE  ALL-AMEEICAN  COOK  BOOK 


FAMOUS  SAYINGS  OF  FAMOUS  AMERICANS 

Shallow  men  believe  in  luck,  believe  in  circumstances. 
Strong  men  believe  in  cause  and  effect. — Ralph  Waldo  Emerson. 

Show  me  a  man  who  makes  no  mistakes  and  I  will  show 
you  a  man  who  doesn't  do  things. — Theodore  Roosevelt. 

Teach  economy — that  is  one  of  the  first  and  highest  virtues. 

— Abraham  Lincoln. 

Christ  furnished  us  the  highest  example  of  giving,  but 
even  the  humblest  of  us  may  take  inspiration  from  His  life 
and  make  our  own  lives  fruitful  and  full  of  satisfaction  by 
rendering  helpful  service. — W.  J.  .Bryan. 

When  you  get  into  a  tight  place,  and  everything  goes 
against  you,  till  it  seems  as  if  you  couldn't  hold  on  a  minute 
longer,  never  give  up  then,  for  that's  just  the  place  and  time 
that  the  tide '11  turn. — Harriet  B.  Stowe. 

I  want  it  to  be  said  of  me  by  those  who  know  me  best  that 
I  have  always  plucked  a  thistle  and  planted  a  flower  in  its  place 
wherever  a  flower  would  grow. — Abraham  Lincoln. 

Is  life  so  dear  or  peace  so  sweet  as  to  be  purchased  at 
the  price  of  chains  and  slavery?  Forbid  it,  Almighty  God! 
I  know  not  what  course  others  may  take ;  but  as  for  me,  give 
me  liberty,  or  give  me  death. — Patrick  Henry. 

With  malice  towards  none,  with  charity  for  all,  with  firm- 
ness in  the  right,  as  God  gives  us  to  see  the  right,  let  us  strive 
on  to  finish  the  work  we  are  in. — Lincoln. 

Let  reverence  for  our  land  be  breathed  by  every  American 
mother  to  the  lisping  babe  that  prattles  on  her  lap. — Lincoln. 

God  reigns,  and  the  government  at  Washington  still  lives. 

— James  A.  Garfield. 


CHAPTER  X. 

VEGETABLES 

Winter  has  found  out  what  summer  has  laid  up. 

— Old  Proverb. 


VILLA  SERENA 
Miami,  Florida 

June  17,  1921. 

My  dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

Your  favor  at  hand.  I  was  strongly  tempted 
to  give  you  as  my  recipe  directions  for  eating 
radishes,  of  which  I  am  very  fond.  I  eat  them 
with  salt  and  butter  and  prefer  the  White  Icicle 
variety  above  all  others.  But  lest  this  might  not 
be  regarded  as  a  full  compliance  to  your  request, 
I  beg  to  add  the  recipe  for  another  of  my  f avoriate 
dishes,  viz:  French  Fried  Onions. 

I  first  ate  these  at  the  famous  Grove  Park 
Inn,  Asheville,  N.  C,  and  since  that  time  have 
passed  the  recipe  on  to  a  number  of  friends  as 
well  as  to  dining  car  stewards.  If  you  will  take 
the  large  onion  and  cut  it  cross-wise,  so  that  each 
slice  will  be  made  up  of  a  number  of  rings,  and 
then  drop  the  rings  separately  into  a  thin  flour 
batter  and  fry  them  as  you  would  sliced  potatoes, 
you  will  find  them  very  palatable. 

I  hope  you  may  deem  the  humble  onion 
worthy  of  a  place  in  the  book  you  are  preparing. 

Very  truly  yours, 

W.  J.  BRYAN, 


74  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


A.  W.  WEDDELL 

American  Consul-General  to  Calcutta,  India 

Stuffed  Cauliflower 

Use  a  medium  sized  cauliflower,  a  teaspoon  of  capers,  1 
oz.  of  bread  crumbs,  2  medium  sized  fresh  mushrooms,  grated 
cheese,  1  gill  of  white  sauce,  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  the  cauli- 
flower in  salted  water  still  nearly  cooked ;  then  drain  carefully. 
Place  in  a  baking-dish,  in  which  it  may  be  served.  Remove 
thick  stalk,  and  fill  hole  made  with  a  mixture  of  the  bread 
crumbs,  chopped  capers,  and  mushrooms,  cheese,  salt  and 
pepper  well  blended.  Press  into  as  compact  a  shape  as  pos- 
sible. Have  white  sauce  ready,  pour  over,  and  then  scatter 
grated  cheese  on  top.    Place  in  oven  for  15  or  20  minutes. 


H.  SHARP 

American  Consul  to  Edinburgh,  Scotland 
Sweet  Potato  Fritters 
To  2  cups  of  cooked  sweet  potatoes  rubbed  through  a 
colander  allow  3  eggs  beaten  light,  2  tablespoons  of  cream, 
1  of  melted  butter  and  2  of  flour.  Beat  the  eggs  into  the 
potatoes,  then  add  butter,  cream  and  flour.  Drop  by  the  spoon- 
ful into  boiling  fat  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Drain  on 
paper  and  serve  with  lemon  sauce. 


J.  B.  STEWART 

American  Consul  to  Chihuahua,  Mexico 

Frizoles 

Soak  desired  amount  of  beans  over  night  and  in  the  morn- 
ing start  to  cooking.  Chop  1  onion  very  fine  with  bacon  and 
let  simmer  with  beans,  which  should  be  soft  and  mealy.  A  bit 
of  garlic  adds  flavor  to  this  and  is  liked  by  many. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  BENSON,  U.  S.  Navy 

Baked  Tomatoes 

Fill  a  baking  dish  with  ripe  tomatoes  cut  in  small  pieces 
(skin  removed),  canned  ones  will  do,  but  keep  all  the  juice; 
into  it  put  about  2  slices  of  bread,  add  1  level  tablespoon  of 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  75 


salt,  1  tablespoon  good  shortening,  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  dash 
of  pepper.  Cook  a  long  time  (about  2  hours  slowly,  being  care- 
ful not  to  scorch,  as  it  will  spoil  them).  Serve  in  dish  in  whieh 
it  was  baked. 

JOHN  PHILIP  SOUSA 

Sands  Point 
Port  Washington,  Long  Island 

October  31,  1921. 

My  dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

Owing  to  my  slow  convalescence  from  a  serious  horseback 
accident,  I  am  only  able  now  to  send  you  my  favorite  recipe. 
It  is  as  follows: 

Pelotas  a  la  Portugaise 

One  quart  can  of  tomatoes.  Put  in  kettle  on  top  of  stove. 
Simmer  or  let  boil  slowly  for  l1/^  hours.  Add  pepper,  salt,  2 
onions  cut  in  fine  slices,  4  allspice  and  4  cloves.  The  cloves 
and  allspice  to  be  added  after  it  starts  to  boil.  After  1^  hours 
add :  To  2  lbs.  chopped  beef  add  1  onion  chopped  fine,  2  cups 
bread  crumbs,  a  little  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Make  into 
meat  balls  about  the  size  of  a  plum.  Put  into  sauce  and  boil 
l1/^  hours  slowly.  This  makes  fully  3  hours  slow  boiling  for 
the  sauce.  Use  a  package  or  a  pound  of  spaghetti,  not  maca- 
roni. Have  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water  with  about  1  table- 
spoon of  salt.  Slide  the  spaghetti  into  the  water.  Do  not 
break  it.  Boil  exactly  20  minutes.  Must  be  tender,  not  tough, 
nor  doughy.  To  sauce  add  3  bay  leaves  1  hour  before  taking 
off  the  stove.  Serve  spaghetti  on  large  platter,  pouring  tomato 
sauce  over  it.  Serve  pelotas  on  smaller  platter,  allowing  a 
small  quantity  of  sauce  to  remain  on  them.  Serve  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese  on  side.  Use  the  piece  of  cheese  to  grate,  not 
bottled  cheese.    This  serves  from  6  to  8  persons. 

Wishing  you  every  success  in  your  enterprise, 
Very  sincerely  yours, 

John  Philip  Sousa. 

£.  L.  HARRIS 

American  Consul-General  to  Singapore,  S.  S. 

Sugared  Sweet  Potatoes 

Cut  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into  14-inch  sliees  until 


76  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


you  have  1  pt.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan 
or  baking  dish,  and  when  hot  lay  the  potatoes  in,  sprinkle  the 
top  with  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  pour  lightly  over  2  tablespoons 
of  vinegar  and  cook  until  hot  and  brown.  Sweet  potatoes  are 
always  richer  with  twice  cooking. 


THOMAS  A.  EDISON 

Cold  Slaw  (Sour  Cream) 

Chop  head  of  cabbage  for  cold  slaw.  One  bottle  of  sour 
cream  (sweet  with  more  vinegar  will  answer),  ^  cup  of 
vinegar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  salt  spoon  of  black  pepper,  about 
4  tablespoons  of  sugar  (more  if  wished  sweeter).  Beat  all 
together  until  like  whipped  cream.  Mix  well  with  slaw  and 
put  where  cold. 


COL.  I.  C.  WELBOURN 

Director  U.  S.  Tank  Corps,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Green  Corn  Pudding 
One  quart  of  milk,  12  ears  of  corn  (grated),  5  eggs,  5 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Grate  corn 
from  cob  and  beat  it  with  eggs;  add  butter,  salt,  milk  and 
sugar.  Put  in  a  covered  baking  dish  (buttered)  and  bake 
slowly  for  1  hour.  Just  before  serving  remove  cover  and 
brown.    This  recipe  can  be  halved,  using  3  eggs. 


WM.  H.  HUNT 

American  Consul  to  St.  Etienne,  Prance 

"I  know  that  there  is  a  great  deal  of  misery 
and  suffering  among  the  dependent  families  of 
our  wounded  and  unemployed  ex-service  boys, 
and  you  deserve  the  highest  credit  for  this  unique 
idea  of  coming  to  their  rescue,  as  a  cook  book  is 
something  that  every  household  that  respects 
itself  should  not  be  without."  W.  H.  H. 

Sweet  Potato  Pone 
Peel  and  grate  2  moderate  sized  raw  sweet  potatoes.    Pour 
over  them  water.    Add  4  large  spoonfuls  of  1%  cups  of  cold 
brown  sugar  and  1  of  butter.     Season  with  ginger  to  taste, 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  77 


rub  the  ingredients  well  together  and  bake  in  a  shallow  but- 
tered plate  in  a  moderate  oven  about  3  hours. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  WM.  LASSITER 
Assistant  Chief-of-Staff,  U.  S.  Army 

"I  have  tried  this  recipe  in  various  parts  of 
the  world  and  found  it  a  good  one."  W.  L. 

Baked  Egg  Plant 

Pare  a  large  *  eggplant  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  soak 
in  cold  water  1  hour,  cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water 
for  20  minutes  or  until  soft,  mash,  and  season  to  taste  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking  crock, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  butter  and  bake 
until  brown. 

*  Small  eggplants  frequently  have  a  bitter  flavor. 


SGT.  A.  W.  BOGGS 

Note:  Sgt.  Boggs  is  the  oldest  living  member  of  the 
American  Legion,  being  80  years  old.  He  was  present  in  Ford's 
Theater,  Washington,  when  President  Lincoln  was  assissinated. 
He  is  also  a  member  of  the  G.  A.  R.  and  served  in  the  Spanish- 
American  War. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Select  firm,  solid  tomatoes  of  similar  size,  cut  a  round 
place  in  the  top  of  each  and  scrape  out  the  soft  part.  Mix 
with  stale  bread  crumbs,  a  little  parsley,  and,  if  you  like,  a 
suspicion  of  onion  and  chop  very  fine.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter,  fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture,  scatter 
bits  of  butter  over  them  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting 
occasionally  with  butter.  Variation  in  seasoning  may  be  made 
by  using  buttered  bread  crumbs  with  fine  chopped  ham  sea- 
soned with  cayenne  pepper  and  a  dusting  of  Parmesan  cheese, 
or  minced  meat,  buttered  bread  crumbs,  fine  herbs  to  season, 
and  a  beaten  egg.  Another  stuffing  liked  by  many  is  made  with 
rice. 


78  THE  ALL-AMEKICAN  COOK  BOOK 


DEPARTMENT  OF  STATE 
Washington 

February  11,  1922. 

Dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

Both  my  wife  and  I  are  only  too  glad  to  aid 
our  ex-service  men  in  any  way  we  can.  Neither 
of  us,  however,  is  very  much  of  a  cook,  and  I  am 
afraid  our  recipes  would  not  go  very  much  further 
than  the  following :  First  take  a  potato,  bake  it, 
eat  it.  So  I  expect  you  will  have  to  assign  some 
delectable  recipe  to  us  and  let  us  get  by  somewhat 
in  the  fashion  of  a  camouflaged  ship. 

With  best  wishes  for  the  success  of  your  book, 
which  will  earn,  I  hope,  a  great  deal  of  money  for 
the  unemployed  ex-service  boys,  I  am, 

Yours  very  sincerely, 

FRED  M.  DEERING, 
The  Assistant  Secretary  of  State. 


MR.  DEERING 
Nut  Stuffed  Potatoes 

Six  large  potatoes,  %  cup  ground  nuts,  2  tablespoons  thick 
cream,  2  tablespoons  butter,  salt  and  white  pepper.  Wash 
and  bake  potatoes.  When  done  cut  across  evenly  %-ineh  from 
the  end.  Remove  the  insides,  being  careful  not  to  break  the 
skins.  Mash  the  potato,  add  nuts,  cream,  butter,  and  season- 
ing to  taste.  Beat  with  a  fork  until  light,  refill  potato  shells 
and  set  in  oven  until  hot. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  J.  H.  PENDLETON 

Commanding  General,  Second  Base  Force,  U.  S.  Marine  Corps, 
San  Diego,  Calif. 

Hollandaise  Sauce 
Scant  tablespoon  of  butter,  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour, 
stir  till  smooth,  adding  slowly  a  cup  of  water;  when  smooth 
and  thick,  pour  over  the  well  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  season 
with  salt  and  tobasco  sauce,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  till 
the  egg  is  cooked.  Beat  well  with  an  egg  beater  before  serv- 
ing; if  used  as  a  sauce  for  fish,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice ;  if  with  a  vegetable,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  is  better. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  79 


AMERICAN  CONSUL-GENERAL  GEORGE  H.  MURPHY 

Dean  of  the  American  Consular  Service 

Note :  This  recipe  is  dedicated  to  George  H.  Murphy  by 
Mrs.  Margherita  Dye,  wife  of  the  American  Consul  at  Ciudad 
Juarez,  Mexico. 

Baked  Eggplant,  Murphy  Style 

Four  eggplants,  3  large  onions,  6  large  tomatoes,  y2  cup 
of  oil,  salt  and  pepper,  and  2  cloves  of  garlic.  Wash  and  cut 
slits  about  2  inches  long,  lengthways  of  the  vegetable,  about  an 
inch  apart.  Into  these  slits  stuff  slices  of  onion  and  tomato. 
Season  and  put  in  a  baking  pan,  keeping  eggplants  close  to- 
gether; place  remaining  tomatoes  and  onions  on  top  of  egg- 
plants, pour  oil  over  and  cook  in  moderate  oven.  Cover  pan 
after  first  half  hour  of  cooking.  If  the  flavor  of  garlic  is  liked, 
split  2  cloves  and  put  in  pan  while  cooking.  Remove  garlic 
before  serving. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  E.  K.  COLE,  U.  S.  M.  C. 

U.  S.  Marine  Barracks,  Paris  Island,  S.  C. 

Mexican  Beans  With  Cheese 

One  quart  of  Mexican  beans,  1  can  tomatoes,  1  lb.  of  fat 
bacon  or  dried  ham,  3  large  onions,  3  bell  peppers,  2  cloves 
of  garlic  minced  fine,  red  chile  peppers,  salt,  red  pepper  and 
black  pepper  (usually  made  very  hot).  Put  all  ingredients  into 
iron  pot  together  and  fill  up  with  water,  bringing  to  a  boil, 
and  then  set  on  back  of  stove  to  simmer  slowly  and  steadily 
until  the  beans  are  tender  and  most  of  the  liquor  absorbed; 
just  before  serving  add  1  or  1^2  cups  of  grated  cheese.  This 
preparation  may  be  warmed  over  nicely.  In  case  Mexican 
beans  cannot  be  gotten,  the  dish  may  be  made  with  any  dried 
bean,  which  should  be  soaked  over  night.  Red  beans  are 
preferable. 


W.  A.  BICKERS 

American  Consul  to  Puerto  Plata,  Dominican  Republic 

Cocoanut  Sweet  Potatoes 

Boil  4  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes  until  tender,  cream  with 
them  y2  cup  of  cream,  lump  of  butter  size  of  egg,  1  tablespoon 


80  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


of  sugar,  y2  pt-  of  grated  cocoanut.    Serve  very  hot.    This  is 
a  rare  and  delicious  dish. 


LT.  PAUL  E.  KURRY 

Camp  Greenleaf,  Georgia 

Corn  and  Nut  Loaf 

Mix  2  cups  of  grated  corn  with  y2  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs, 
1  cup  of  chopped  English  walnut  meats,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  into  a  but- 
tered mold  and  steam  until  done. 


U.  S.  SENATOR  THOMAS  STERLING,  State  of  South  Dakota 
Tomato  Sauce  for  Meat  or  Fish 

Cook  1  level  tablespoon  minced  onion  in  1  tablespoon 
butter  until  a  light  brown,  add  1  tablespoon  each  of  minced 
celery  and  parsley,  add  1  rounded  tablespoon  of  flour,  well 
blended  with  %  cup  of  water,  add  %  teaspoon  salt  and  grad- 
ually \y<z  cups  hot  strained  tomato.    Stir  and  cook  until  smooth. 


R.  P.  SKINNER 

American  Consul-General,  London,  England 

Bechemel  Sauce 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  into  which 
stir  a  soup  spoon  of  flour,  then  slowly  add  %  pt.  of  milk  and 
soak  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 


CAPT.  R.  EARLE,  U.  S.  Navy 
Curry  Sauce 

One  tablespoon  of  butter  browned  in  a  frying  pan,  2 
tablespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  curry  powder,  iy2  pts.  of 
good  beef  stock,  1  cup  of  tomato  juice,  few  grains  cayenne,  1 
tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup 
cooked  to  a  smooth  sauce  is  good  for  any  curry.  If  a  table- 
spoon of  raspberry  shrub  or  walnut  catsup  is  used  it  is  greatly 
improved. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  81 


AMERICAN  CONSULAR  SERVICE 

Hull,  England 

JOHN  H.  GROUT 

American  Consul  to  Hull,  England 

April  11,  1922. 

Baked  Beans 
I  received  your  letter  of  March  28th  this 
morning  and  am  somewhat  surprised  that  out  of 
all  the  recipes  that  you  have  received  none  speak- 
ing of  baked  beans.  How  strange!  "Well,  there 
are  lots  of  things  I  do  not  know,  but  I  do  at  least 
know  "beans."  I  was  born  in*Beverley,  Mass., 
and  people  from  there  are  called  "Bevereley 
Beaners,"  because  it  is  supposed  that  that  was 
where  baked  beans  were  discovered.  Much  is 
heard  of  "Boston  beans,"  but  that  is  due  to  the 
fact  that  beans  were  first  canned  in  Boston.  They 
had  to  go  to  Beverley  to  learn  how  to  bake  them, 
however,  before  doing  so.  My  old  grandmother, 
who  taught  me  how  to  bake  beans,  used  to  execute 
the  process  in  the  following  way :  Select  a  quart 
of  white  pea  beans.  Sort  them  well  over  and 
clear  them  of  all  foreign  substance.  Then,  suppos- 
ing it  is  Friday  night,  place  them  in  a  basin  of 
hot  water,  the  water  barely  covering.  Leave  them 
there  until  the  next  morning.  Then  take  an 
earthenware  pot,  preferably  one  of  those  enameled 
inside,  but  the  then  parboiled  beans  in  the  above 
pot,  place  a  half  pound  piece  of  salt  pork  over. 
Through  the  top  of  the  pork  cut  diagonal  lines, 
just  cutting  through  the  rind.  Next  pour  in  water 
until  it  barely  covers  the  pork,  then  place  in  a 
slow  oven  at  say  8  o'clock  in  the  morning  and 
allow  to  remain  there  until  about  5  in  the  after- 
noon. Stand  guard  over  the  door  of  the  oven  and 
shoot  anybody  who  attempts  to  open  the  oven 
door  for  the  purpose  of  pouring  in  water  or  other 
objects.  When  the  beans  are  removed  they  will 
be  found  to  be  just  what  our  old  grandmothers 
used  to  bake  and  take  pride  in,  and  they  knew 
better  before  or  since  what  beans  were,  including 
your  humble  servant. 

Cordially  yours, 

JOHN  H.  GROUT, 


82  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


WM.  HOWARD  TAFT 

Ex-President  of  the  United  States  of  America 

Truffle  Sauce 

Rub  together  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  tablespoons  of 
flour.  Put  2  cups  of  brown  stock  on  the  stove,  season,  and 
when  it  is  boiling,  put  in  the  flour  and  butter.  Chop  up  the 
truffles  very  fine  and  put  them  in  the  sauce. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  C.  S.  WILLIAMS,  U.  S.  Navy 
Horse  Radish  Sauce 

Melt  4  tablespoons  of  flour  and  butter  together,  blending 
thoroughly,  then  gradually  add  2  cups  of  milk;  bring  to  boil- 
ing point  and  add  y2  teaspoon  salt,  dash  of  pepper  and  %  cup 
grated  horse  radish.  Stir  constantly.  Excellent  with  roast 
beef. 


MAJ.  BENJAMIN  CROUCH 
Sauce  Tartare 

To  1  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing  add  1  tablespoon  each 
of  finely  chopped  parsley,  olives,  pickles  and  chives.  Excellent 
for  fried  oysters. 


CAPT.  R.  EARLE,  U.  S.  Navy 

Mushroom  Sauce 

Brown  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  add  2  tablespoons  of 
flour,  stir  well  and  brown ;  add  water  or  beef  stock,  1  cup  of 
mushrooms  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


GOVERNOR  H.  J.  ALLEN,  State  of  Kansas 
Salmon  Sauce 

Liquor  off  of  salmon,  1  tablespoon  flour,  2  tablespoons 
tomato  catsup,  1  egg  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cream  all 
together.  Let  1  cup  of  milk  come  to  a  boil  and  then  partly 
cool.  Add  to  the  above  sauce.  Let  boil  again  and  pour  over 
salmon  loaf  when  ready  to  serve. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

A  good  dinner  is  better  than  a  fine  coat. — An  Ancient 
Adage. 

W.  M.  COLLIER 

American  Ambassador  to  Chile,  South  America 

Spanish  Rice 
Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  cups  of 
cooked  rice,  4  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese,  5  tablespoons  of 
tomato  pulp,  pinch  of  mustard,  1  teaspoon  of  chutney,  salt  to 
taste  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper ;  mix  and  beat  thor- 
oughly. Put  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  browned  bread 
crumbs  and  serve  very  hot. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  A.  GLEAVES 

Commandant,  First  Naval  District,  U.  S.  Navy  Yard, 
Boston,  Mass. 

Curry 

Chop  1  onion  fine  and  fry  dark  brown  in  butter,  then 
drain  from  butter  and  place  in  a  sauce  pan.  In  same  butter, 
more  added  if  necessary,  fry  y2  lb.  rich  lean  beef,  lamb,  veal, 
chicken  or  chicken  livers,  then  drain  from  butter  and  add  to 
onion.  In  the  same  butter  fry  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  "Gross 
and  Blackwell's"  curry  powder,  till  a  dark  brown  (almost 
black),  but  do  not  scorch.  Add  all  together  and  cover  with 
fresh  milk  and  let  stew  until  the  gravy  is  very  thick  (from 
%  to  %  of  an  hour).  Oysters,  clams,  lobsters,  fish  or  crabs, 
also  hard-boiled  eggs,  may  be  used  instead  of  the  meat,  but 
should  not  be  fried. 

A.  A.  WINSLOW 

American  Consul-General,  Cape  Town,  South  Africa 

Salted  Almonds 
Blanch  almonds  by  pouring  boiling  hot  water  over  them; 


84  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


then  remove  the  brown  skins;  over  each  cup  of  nuts  pour  1 
tablespoon  of  butter  or  almond  oil  and  1  even  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Spread  in  tin  pan  and  brown  in  moderate  oven;  stir  often, 
watching  closely. 

COL.  M.  B.  STEWART,  U.  S.  Army 

Asparagus  Pudding 

One  tin  of  asparagus  tips,  1  pt.  of  milk,  3  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons of  flour,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper,  and 
1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Cut  long  asparagus  in  two,  using  only 
tender  tips;  wash  it,  and  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  flour, 
sugar,  salt  and  pepper.  Fold  in  whites  of  eggs  last.  Do  not 
stir. 

LT.  COMMANDER  LEE  P.  WARREN 

Aide  to  the  Assistant  Secretary,  U.  S.  Navy 

Mushrooms  Under  Glass 

Place  some  mushrooms  on  fresh  toast  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each.  Pour  on 
each  dish  a  tablespoon  of  milk  or  cream,  add  1  clove.  Place 
glass  bell  (which  come  for  this  purpose),  or  metal  basin,  over 
the  whole.  Bake  20  minutes  and  serve  with  the  cover  on, 
removing  only  at  last  minute.  Add  milk  while  baking,  if  it 
dries  up  much.  These  should  be  arranged  in  dishes  like  small 
soup  plates.  They  are  served  in  the  same  dish  in  which  they 
are  baked. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  THOMAS  STERLING,  State  of  South  Dakota 

Chairman,  Committee  on  Civil  Service 

Souffled  Eggs 

Beat  white  of  1  egg  until  stiff,  season  with  salt,  and  put 
into  a  cup,  in  a  pan  of  warm  water,  beat  gradually  until  a 
boiling  point  is  reached.  As  egg  rises  make  a  depression  in 
it  and  drop  in  yolk  and  cook  only  a  very  little  longer. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  R.  H.  JACKSON 

General  Board,  U.  S.  Navy 

Creamed  Peanuts  and  Rice 
One  cup  uncooked  rice,  1  cup  shelled  peanuts,  1  teaspoon 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  85 


of  salt,  !/4  teaspoon  of  paprika,  V/2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1% 
tablespoons  of  fat,  and  iy2  cups  of  milk.  Boil  the  rice ;  make 
a  white  sauce  of  flour,  fat  and  milk.  Mix  boiled  rice,  chopped 
peanuts  (first  put  through  meat  grinder)  and  seasoning  to- 
gether, and  bake  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  20  minutes. 

D.  LINARD 

American  Consul  to  St.  Michael's,  Azore  Island 

Sopa  Forte  (A  Native  Azorean  Dish) 

Make  a  soup  of  2  lbs.  of  beef;  add  1  lb.  ham,  cabbage, 
turnips,  carrots,  peas,  and  season  well  with  salt;  also  add 
a  green  pepper.  When  cooked,  remove  the  vegetables  and 
ham.  Line  a  deep  roasting  pan  with  slices  of  bread,  cover 
with  a  layer  of  the  well  chopped  vegetables,  then  add  a  layer 
of  ham  finely  chopped,  and  over  that  sprinkle  a  layer  of 
grated  cheese.  Continue  these  alternate  layers  till  the  dish 
is  full,  taking  care  that  the  last  layer  is  of  bread,  and  cover 
with  grated  cheese.  Then  ladle  most  of  the  soup — or  stock — 
over  these  layers  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  10  minutes.  To 
serve,  ladle  into  soup  plates  and  pour  over  some  of  the  remain- 
ing broth  with  each  helping. 

WM.  H.  ROBERTSON 

American  Consul-General  to  Buenos  Aires,  Argentina 

Hot  Sandwiches 

Cut  12  slices  of  bread  y2  inch  thick;  butter  and  spread 
ham  between;  dip  in  milk  and  fry  in  hot  olive  oil  until  crisp 
and  brown.     Serve  immediately. 

N.  WINSHIP 

American  Consul  to  Bombay,  India 

Curry  Powder 

Eleven  ounces  of  coriander  roasted  on  an  iron  plate, 
husked,  pounded  fine,  and  sifted;  2  teaspoons  of  mustard 
seed,  1  teaspoon  of  jeera  or  cummin  seed,  1  teaspoon  of  pep- 
per, 15  dry  chillies,  2  teaspoons  of  kuskus,  each  of  these  to  be 
slightly  roasted  and  pounded  separately;  4  inches  of  turmeric 
to  be  roasted  and  pounded;  pound  also  4  cloves,  4  inches  of 
cinnamon  and  the  seeds  of  4  cardamoms.  All  to  be  mixed 
together  and  kept  dry  in  well  corked  bottles.     This  powder 


86  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


can  be  used  for  any  curry;  a  pound  of  meat  will  require  2 
teaspoons. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  A.  A.  JONES,  State  of  New  Mexico 
Chili  Con  Huevos 

Mix  2  tablespoons  of  ground  red  chili  and  1  teaspoon  of 
flour  in  a  little  water  until  smooth,  fry  for  a  few  seconds  in 
a  tablespoon  of  hot  lard;  add  to  this  plenty  of  salt  and 
enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  thick  gravy.  Beat  yolks  and 
whites  of '4  eggs  separately,  mix  lightly  together  with  y%  tea- 
spoon of  salt;  drop  this  mixture  by  tablespoonsful  into  hot 
lard  and  fry  like  doughnuts.  Lay  these  airy  cakes  in  a  deep 
dish,  pour  the  chili  sauce  over  them  at  the  moment  of  serving. 
Like  any  omelet,  they  must  be  eaten  while  light. 

STILLMAN  W.  EELLS 
American  Consul,  Punchal,  Maderia 

Spaghetti 

"I  take  pleasure  in  furnishing  the  recipe  of 
a  way  of  serving  spaghetti,  which  has  always  been 
a  favorite  of  mine. 

Sauce:  Stew  tomatoes  with  a  good  deal  of 
sugar  until  you  have  produced  a  brownish  red 
syrupy  mass.  This  should  be  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

Fry  crisp  several  slices  of  bacon,  cut  into 
small  strips  about  %  of  an  inch  long. 

Braise  in  butter  several  slices  of  boiled, 
smoked  tongue  and  cut  into  strips  of  the  same 
size. 

Just  before  serving  add  the  bacon  and  tongue 
to  tomato  sauce. 

Boil  the  spaghetti  until  it  is  thoroughly 
cooked.  Put  it  in  a  colander  and  dip  it  for  a 
moment  in  iced  water.  Put  on  a  platter,  pour  the 
sauce  over  it  and  serve  immediately." 

S.  W.  E. 

W.  S.  HOLLIS 
American  Consul-General  to  Lisbon,  Portugal 

Cabbage  Pudding 
Line  a  mold  with  boiled  cabbage.    Put  a  layer  of  minced 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  87 


meat,  boiled  eggs  cut  in  rounds,  stoned  olives  and  boiled  finely- 
cut  carrots;  then  put  a  layer  of  cabbage  and  so  on  until  dish 
is  filled,  last  layer  being  cabbage.  Bake  in  moderate  over  about 
20  minutes. 

Note:     This  is  a  Portuguese  dish. 

PAUL  H.  CRAM 

American  Consul  to  Nancy,  France 

Cuban  Cheese 

(Note:  This  is  a  very  rare  and  unusual  recipe.) 
One  pound  of  best  dried  figs,  1  teacup  of  water,  2  teacups 
of  sugar.  Wash  the  figs  in  warm  water.  Cook  sugar  and 
water  together  until  a  syrup  is  formed.  Then  add  figs,  and 
cook  slowly  until  tender;  then  take  up  figs,  and  boil  syrup 
until  thick.  Pour  over  figs,  and  set  aside  until  cold.  Cut 
Philadelphia  cream  cheese  into  2-inch  cubes,  and  pour  over 
each  cube  2  tablespoons  of  syrup  and  2  figs.  Serve  1  cube  with 
a  small  cup  of  black  coffee  after  dinner. 

J.  W.  DYE 

American  Consul,  Ciudad  Juarez,  Mexico 

Chile  Omelet 

Six  large  chiles,  3  eggs,  6  slices  of  cheese,  2  large  onions 
and  4  tomatoes.  Split  and  remove  seeds  from  chiles;  place 
inside  of  each  chile  a  piece  of  cheese ;  beat  eggs,  add  salt,  and 
dip  chiles  in  beaten  egg  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Have  a  stew 
prepared  of  the  onions  and  tomatoes  and  pour  over  the  chiles. 
Serve  hot. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  R.  E.  COONTZ 

Chief  of  Naval  Operations,  U.  S.  Navy 

Spanish  Rice 

One  cup  of  rice,  3  cups  boiling  water,  6  large  sliced  onions, 
can  of  tomatoes  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cook  the  rice  in  hot 
drippings  until  golden  brown,  stirring  frequently;  remove 
seeds  from  sliced  red  pepper  and  cook  with  onions  15  minutes 
in  boiling  water;  add  rice  and  cook  10  minutes,  then  add 
tomatoes,  which  have  been  warmed,  stirring  thoroughly.  Cover 
tightly  and  cook  until  water  is  absorbed.     Do  not  stir  again. 


88  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


L.  R.  BLOHM 

American  Consul  to  Aguascalientes,  A.  G.  S.,  Mexico 

Prunes  Stuffed  with  Dried  Apricots 

Two  cupfuls  of  large,  soft  prunes,  2  cupfuls  of  dried  apri- 
cots, 1  cupful  of  XXXX  sugar,  y2  cupful  of  fresh  grated 
cocoanut.  Soak  the  prunes  for  one  hour,  and  dry ;  with  a  sharp 
knife  remove  the  stones;  fill  with  apricot,  which  has  been 
washed,  dried  and  put  through  a  food  chopper.  Form  into  the 
natural  shape  of  fresh  prunes.  Mix  the  sugar  and  cocoanut 
together  and  roll  the  prunes  in  it.    Spread  on  a  platter  to  dry. 

W.  W.  BRUNSWICK 

American  Consul  to  La  Rochelle,  France 

Omelet  Souffle 

Beat  well  yolk  of  egg.  Then  beat  white  until  like  snow. 
To  white  then  add  2  teaspoons  of  "sucre  vanille."  Mix  the 
white  and  yolk  together,  very  gradually,  by  taking  spoonful 
of  white  and  mixing  to  yolk,  then  another  and  another  until 
all  is  mixed.  Place  in  lower  part  of  oven  a  few  minutes,  then 
in  upper  oven  until  a  little  brown.  To  serve  as  a  dessert,  if 
desired,  a  little  candied  fruit  may  be  cooked  in  the  omelet 
and  sugar  sprinkled  over  the  top. 

CAPT.  W.  M.  CROSE 

Commandant,  U.  S.  Navy  Yards,  Naval  District, 
Cavite,  Philippine  Islands 

Fish  Timbales 

Chop  fine  1  cup  of  white,  cooked  fish;  boil  iy2  cups  of 
milk  and  y2  pt.  of  bread  crumbs  together,  and  when  cool,  add 
the  fish  gradually,  and  press  through  a  sieve;  add  4  table- 
spoons of  cream,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  dash  of  pepper;  fold 
in  the  whites  of  5  eggs  (well  beaten).  Pour  mixture  into 
timbale  cups,  stand  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  in  hot  oven  15 
minutes.    Even  better  than  the  fish  is  to  use  asparagus  tips. 

J.  S.  BENEDICT 

American  Consul  to  St.  John's,  Newfoundland 

Candied   Grapefruit   Peel 
Take  skins  of  grapefruit  after  pulp  has  been  removed, 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


cut  in  quarters  with  scissors,  remove  all  membrane  without 
disturbing  white  part  of  rind;  cut  rind  into  narrow  strips, 
cover  with  water  which  has  been  added  salt  in  proportion 
to  a  scant  %  cup  to  2  qts.  of  water;  stand  over  night  and  in 
the  morning  drain  and  rinse ;  cover  with  cold  water  and  boil 
10  or  15  minutes,  drain,  rinse  and  again  put  in  cold  water 
and  boil  until  tender.  Take  weight  of  peel  in  sugar,  and  % 
weight  in  water  and  boil  to  a  syrup ;  add  peel  and  let  simmer 
until  syrup  is  almost  absorbed.  Set  aside  to  cool  in  syrup. 
Roll  in  granulated  sugar. 

ADMIRAL  H.  B.  WILSON 

Commanding  Officer,  U.   S.  Naval  Academy,  Annapolis,  Md. 

UNITED  STATES  NAVAL  ACADEMY 
Annapolis,  Maryland 

December  14,  1921. 

My  dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

Admiral  Wilson  has  asked  me,  in  accordance 
with  your  request,  to  enclose  a  recipe  for  creamed 
mushrooms,  which  he  obtained  during  his  tour  of 
duty  in  France  during  the  World  War.  It  has 
been  translated  rather  freely  into  English,  but  I 
think  will  prove  satisfactory. 
With  kindest  regards, 

Sincerely  yours, 
M.  S.  Tisdale, 
Lieut.  Comdr.,  U.  S.  Navy, 
Aid  to  Superintendent. 

Champignons 

Peel  the  mushrooms  and  cut  off  the  stems ;  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire  until  no  moisture  remains.  When  all  the 
moisture  is  gone  take  off  and  drain  well.  Then  fry  them  in 
boiling  oil,  with  chopped  onions  and  parsley.  Sift  in  the  pan 
a  pinch  of  flour  and  stir  for  a  few  seconds.  Serve  the  mush- 
rooms with  a  white  sauce,  made  preferably  with  fresh,  thick 
cream.    Add  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  C.  S.  WILLIAMS,  U.  S.  Navy 
Fried  Apples 
Select  nice,  hard,  red  apples  and  cut  in  eighths,  but  do  not 


90  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


peel.  Have  a  frying  pan  quite  hot  in  which  is  melted  1  table- 
spoon each  of  butter  and  lard  for  each  3  apples.  Lay  apples 
in  layers  (but  do  not  break)  ;  sprinkle  with  %  cup  of  sugar 
and  cook.  Do  not  have  pan  too  hot.  When  light  brown  on 
one  side  turn  until  both  are  alike. 

BRIG.  GENERAL  J.  W.  RUCKMAN 

NOTE :  This  recipe  is  placed  in  this  book  in  memory  of 
Gen.  Ruckman,  who  died  last  June,  by  his  daughter-in-law,  Mrs. 
J.  A.  Ruckman.  It  is  with  pleasure  I  place  on  this  page  a 
recipe  in  honor  and  memory  of  one  as  interested  in  the  welfare 
of  our  wounded  and  unemployed  ex-service  boys  as  was  Gen. 
Ruckman,  a  true  son  of  Illinois  and  a  100  per  cent  American.? — 
Editor. 

Apples,  Wiley  Style 

Six  apples,  ^>  cup  of  flour,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  and  y2  cup  of  water.  Pare  the  apples  and  cut 
into  quarters;  dip  them  first  in  melted  butter,  then  in  the  mix- 
ture of  flour  and  sugar.  Put  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  the  water 
over  them,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  40  minutes,  or  uutil 
slightly  brown  on  top.     Serve  hot  with  cream. 

MAJOR  GENERAL  F.  J.  MORRISON,  U.  S.  ARMY 

Cheese  Souffle 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  5  tablespoons  of  flour,  y^  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  3  eggs,  ^4  cup  of  grated  cheese,  and  y2  cup  of 
scalded  milk.  Melt  the  butter;  add  flour  and  mix  well,  then 
gradually  add  scalded  milk,  stir  salt,  bit  of  cayenne  pepper, 
and  cheese.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  yolks  of  eggs 
(beaten)  until  lemon  colored.  Cool  the  mixture  and  fold  it 
into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish 
and  bake  in  slow  oven  20  minutes. 

CAPT.  R.  E.  BAKENHUS 

Assistant  Chief,  Bureau  of  Yards  and  Docks,  U.  S.  Navy 

Cheese  Dreams 

Ingredients :  American  cheese,  bread,  bacon  grease.  Slice 
the  cheese  in  thin  pieces ;  place  between  slices  of  bread  in  sand- 
wich form.  Place  a  moderate  amount  of  bacon  grease  in  frying 
pan  and  lay  the  sandwiches  in  the  pan.  Cook  until  the  bread 
is  toasted  a  light  brown.  Add  additional  bacon  grease  as  nec- 
essary to  keep  the  sandwiches  moistened.     Serve  while  hot. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  91 


Easily  and  quickly  prepared  and  very  satisfactory  for  serving 
large  as  well  as  small  parties.  May  be  cooked  at  camping 
parties. 

ROBERT  SKINNER 

American  Consul-General,  London,  England 

Gniochi  for  Two  Persons 

Put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  y2  pint  of  milk,  a  pinch  of 
salt ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  add  two  ounces  of  flour  quickly, 
stirring  briskly  and  constantly  until  it  forms  a  mass  and  does 
not  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan ;  then  add  some  grated 
Gruyere  cheese,  dip  out  small  spoonsful,  one  after  another,  into 
a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  let  these  poach  three  minutes; 
afterwards  place  them  in  a  colander  and  drain  off  the  water 
and  place  in  a  porcelain  lined  baking  dish ;  pour  over  bechemel 
sauce  and  grate  a  cupful  of  Gruyere  cheese  and  sprinkle  over 
the  top,  and  pour  over  this  a  little  melted  butter.  Then  bake 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven;  it  should  take  about  25  minutes  to 
cook  them. 

Bechemel  Sauce 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  into  which  stir 
a  soupspoonful  of  flour;  then  slowly  add  y±  of  a  pint  of  milk 
and  cook  10  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. 

COL.  I.  C.  WELBOURN 

Director,  U.  S.  Tank  Corps,  Washington,  D.  C. 

A  Cheese  Dish 

Grate  1  cup  of  cheese;  mix  with  1  well  beaten  egg;  add 
salt  and  paprika.  Spread  on  slices  of  toast,  laying  a  slice  of 
uncooked  bacon  over  each  piece  and  put  under  toaster  in  the 
oven  until  bacon  is  crisp  and  brown.  Serve  at  once.  This  is  a 
delicious  luncheon  dish. 

LT.  EARL  SUTHARD 

Baked  Cheese  Custard 

Put  into  sauce  pan  2  ozs.  of  butter,  2  ozs.  of  flour,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  mustard,  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper;  place  over  fire  and  when  all  is  blended  together  add 
1  gill  of  sweet  milk,  then  add  y2  lb.  of  grated  cheese   (Par- 


92  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


mesan).  Do  not  let  boil  but  stir  until  a  smooth,  thick  cream; 
next  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs,  stirring  constantly,  and 
beating  for  5  minutes ;  then  add  the  well  beaten  whites,  put  in 
well  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  quick  oven  20  minutes. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  GEO.  BELL,  JR. 

Commanding  General,  VI  Corps,  U.  S.  Army 

A  Cheese  Dish 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  iy2  small  onions  and  1  lb.  of  cheese. 
Fry  onion  in  butter  until  golden  brown;  add  grated  cheese 
and  melt  well,  adding  tomato  juice  very  slowly,  salt,  pepper, 
and  paprika  to  taste.    Serve  on  toast. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  PHILLIP  ANDREWS 

Commandant,  U.  S.  Navy  Yards,  Norfolk,  Va. 

Asparagus  Timbales 

One-half  teacup  of  hot  milk  poured  over  1  pt.  of  bread 
crumbs ;  when  soaked  beat  smooth ;  add  3  eggs,  1  at  a  time, 
beating  after  each  egg;  add  3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  salt 
and  cayenne  to  taste,  and  a  little  onion  juice;  add  1  pt.  of 
asparagus  cut  in  pieces  and  beat  mixture.  Put  in  buttered 
timbale  molds  in  pan  of  hot  water,  with  buttered  paper  on 
top  to  keep  from  burning.  Cook  in  oven  20  minutes.  Serve 
with  a  rich  cream  sauce. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  S.  P.  SPENCER,  State  of  Missouri 
Chairman,  Committee  on  Indian  Affairs 

Welsh  Rarebit 

One  lb.  American  cheese,  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  y%  cup  butter, 
1  tablespoon  prepared  or  y2  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  1  pinch 
cayenne  pepper,  salt  to  taste.  Grate  or  cut  rather  fine  the 
cheese  and  place  this  with  the  butter  in  a  double  boiler  or 
chafing  dish.  Beat  the  egg  and  mix  well  into  it  the  mustard, 
pepper  and  salt.  When  cheese  and  butter  are  thoroughly 
melted,  pour  in  slowly  the  mixture  of  egg,  mustard,  pepper  and 
salt,  stirring  well  all  the  while.  Next  pour  the  milk  in  little 
by  liittle,  allowing  it  to  mix  gradually.  When  it  becomes  a 
rich  looking,  smooth  paste,  remove  from  fire  immediately  and 
serve  on  toasted  bread  or  crackers. 

(If  the  rarebit  becomes  too  heavy  or  thick,  more  milk  may 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  93 


be  added  over  the  fire,  remembering  to  stir  it  briskly.) 

REAR  ADMIRAL  H.  T.  MAYO,  U.  S.  Navy 
English  Monkey 

One  cup  of  Eastern  cheese  (grated),  1  cup  of  cream,  1 
cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  egg,  white  and  yolk  beaten  separately, 
%  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  paprika,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Melt  butter  and  cheese,  add  bread  crumbs  soaked  in 
cream,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  beaten  eggs  (together)  last.  Serve 
on  toasted  crackers. 

"I  am  enclosing  on  the  attached  sheet  a  recipe  of  a  very 
popular  dish  in  Mexico.  It  is  a  dish  that  seems  to  be  relished 
by  all  foreigners  who  come  to  Mexico." — A.  J.  McC. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  GEORGE  BARNETT,  U.  S.  M.  C. 

Commanding  General,  Department  of  the  Pacific 

Stewed  Cheese 
Six  ounces  of  cheese  (a  little  less  than  %  H>0  grated,  2 
eggs,  2  level  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  milk.     Beat 
all  together  and  bake  to  the  consistency  of  mustard.    Bake  a 
light  brown. 


94  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


"OUR  COUNTRY!" 
A  Prayer  Patriotic 

(By  Stanislav  Martin  Kolar) 
Sgt.  1st  Class,  Med.  Dept.,  108th  Engineers,  33rd  Div. 

Our  Country,  Thou  art  hallowed, 

With  reverence  we  speak  thy  name. 

Thine  is  not  a  kingdom  but  a 

Land  of  Freedom, 

Sacred  to  the  living  and  the 

Legion  of  Hosts  in  Heaven ; 

In  Thee  we  abide  in  peace  and  content, 

Patriotic  in  our  endeavors  we  inspire 

Patriotism  in  others. 

Thou  leadest  not  into  aggression  but, 

Guarding  our  Starry  Banner, 

Glorify,  peace  on  earth  and  good  will 

To  man. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

PUDDINGS 

"Your  dressing,  dancing,  gadding,  where 's  the  good  in? 
Sweet  lady,  tell  me,  can  you  make  a  pudding?" 

EDWIN  DENBY 

Secretary  of  the  Navy 

Mary  Morton  Banana 
One-half  dozen  bananas,  y2  cup  of  walnut  meats.     Grind 
the  meats  and  roll  bananas  in  them,  adding  a  little  nutmeg; 
dot  with  butter.     Bake  in  oven  until  a  golden  brown.     Serve 
with  cream. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  L.  H.  BALL,  State  of  Delaware 
Chairman,  Committee  on  District  of  Columbia 

Peach  Pudding 

Fill  a  baking  dish  with  peaches  (whole),  pour  over  same 
2  cups  of  water.  Cover  dish  and  set  in  hot  oven  until  peaches 
are  done.  Drain  off  juice  and  let  stand  until  cool,  then  add 
1  pt.  of  sweet  milk,  4  well  beaten  eggs,  1  small  cup  of  flour 
with  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  mixed  with  it,  stirred  in 
so  gradually  and  carefully  as  not  to  make  it  at  all  lumpy,  1 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  little  salt  and  1  cup  of  sugar; 
beat  them  all  together  for  3  or  4  minutes,  then  pour  over 
peaches.  Set  dish  in  moderate  oven  until  a  rich  brown. 
Canned  peaches  may  be  used. 

WM.  DAWSON 

American  Consul  to  Munich,  Germany 

Plum  Pudding  Jelly 
One-half  box  of  gelatine  soaked  %  hour  in  1  cup  of  cold 


96  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


water,  y2  oz.  of  chocolate,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1 
cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  y2  cup  of  currants.  Dis- 
solve the  sugar  in  the  milk  and  put  it  into  the  double  boiler 
to  scald.  Melt  the  chocolate,  add  a  few  teaspoons  of  milk  to 
make  it  smooth,  and  add  it  to  the  scalded  milk.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  add  the  soaked  gelatine,  stir  until  dissolved,  then 
strain  into  a  mold.  When  it  begins  to  set,  or  is  firm  enough 
to  hold  its  place,  stir  in  the  fruit,  which  should  be  cooked  for 
a  few  minutes  to  soften.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  and 
if  desired,  a  little  citron,  lemon  or  orange  peel  may  be  added. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

LT.  COL.  ARTHUR  POILLON 

American  Military  Attache,  Bucharest,  Roumania 
Date  Pudding 
One  scant  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  dates,  chopped,  %  cup 
of  chopped  walnuts,  2  eggs,  beaten  together,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  2  tablespoons 
of  milk.  Mix  in  order  given  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  40  min- 
utes.   Serve  hot  with  cream. 

GOVERNOR  D.  W.  DAVIS,  State  of  Idaho 

Idaho  Prune  Pudding 

(Editor's  Note:  Governor  Davis'  choice  is  very  appropri- 
ate, inasmuch  as  the  plum  is  the  official  fruit  of  the  State 
of  Idaho.) 

Stone  and  chop  about  22  cooked  and  sweetened  prunes. 
Add  chopped  meats  of  10  walnuts.  Beat  the  whites  of  5  eggs 
stiff  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar.  Fold  these 
into  prunes  and  bake  in  pudding  dish  over  a  shallow  pan  of 
warm  water  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  %  hour.  Do 
not  remove  pudding  dish  from  pan  of  water  until  cool. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  R.  P.  ERNST,  State  of  Kentucky 

Chairman,  Committee  on  Revision  of  the  Laws 

Glorified  Rice 

Three  tablespoons  of  rice,  1%  tablespoons  of  gelatine, 
flavored  with  vanilla,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  qt.  of  whipped  cream, 
1  scant  cup  of  sugar.  Wash  the  rice  and  put  it  in  double 
boiler  with  the  milk  and  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt ;  boil  \y%  hours ; 
let  cool,  sweeten  and  flavor.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  small 
portion  of  cold  water,  adding  a  tiny  bit  of  boiling  water. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  97 

■"-''•'■ :  S?  -  I    El     "    -  gS^ 

Let  cool ;  add  to  rice  and  watch  carefully  until  it  begins  to 
congeal,  then  whip  in  lightly  1  qt.  of  well  beaten  whipping 
cream.  Pack  in  ice,  or  set  on  ice  to  harden.  Serve  with  dash 
of  tart  jelly  or  preserves.    Best  looking  packed  in  molds. 

F.  W.  MAHIN 

American  Consul  to  Amsterdam,  Netherlands 

Prune  Souffle 

One  quart  of  prunes,  steamed,  and  mashed  through  a 
colander;  when  sweetened  to  taste,  add  2  tablespoons  of  lemon 
juice  (prunes  must  be  cold  when  mashed).  Beat  whites  of  10 
eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  then  beat  in  the  prune  pulp.  Put 
in  a  buttered  granite  saucepan  and  bake  40  minutes.  Serve 
with  sweetened  or  unsweetened  cream.  This  pudding  may  be 
turned  out  and  cut  in  slices  like  cake,  with  the  cream  as  a 
sauce. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  W.  H.  GORDON 
U.  S.  Army,  Ft.  Benning,  Georgia 

Southern  Sweet  Potato  Pudding 

Take  4  large  sweet  potatoes,  wash  and  put  in  pot  of  hot 
water  and  boil  until  thoroughly  cooked;  when  cooked  peel 
and  put  in  a  mixing  bowl;  add  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  teaspoon 
of  nutmeg,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Mix  well.  Place  the  whole 
into  a  pudding  dish,  slice  a  lemon  on  top;  place  in  oven  and 
cook  until  brown.  Remove  from  oven  and  cover  the  top  with 
Angelus  marshmallows  and  return  to  a  very  hot  oven  to  let 
brown.  Serve  at  once  (hot).  This  is  a  genuine  Southern  dish 
and  considered  delicious. 

S.  E.  McMILLIN 
American  Consul,  Port  Limon,  Costa  Rica 

Black  Pudding 

One  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1 
cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  1  teaspoon  of 
soda.  Mix  in  order  given,  adding  soda  in  a  little  of  the  boiling 
water.  Steam  3  hours  and  bake  1  hour.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. 

Sauce:  One  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter  and  2  egg 
whites.    Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.    Beat  the  eggs  until 


98  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


stiff,  and  add  slowly  to  creamed  butter  and  sugar.    Flavor  with 
vanilla. 

BRIG-GENERAL  H.  H.  BANDHOLTZ 

War  Dept.,  U.  S.  Army 

Date  Pudding 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  y2  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  1  cup  chopped  dates,  1  cup  chopped 
English  walnuts  or  butternuts.  Beat  eggs  well;  add  other 
ingredients  in  order  named;  bake  y2  hour  in  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

COL.  J.  B.  BENNETT 

U.  S.  Army,  General  Staff 

Gula  Malaca,  or  Singapore  Pudding 

One  fresh  cocoanut  grated  and  squeezed  through  a  cheese- 
cloth (the  milk  squeezed  from  cocoanut  is  used  for  the  sauce). 
Two  cups  of  brown  or  maple  sugar,  2  cups  of  sage  or  tapioca, 
washed  and  strained.  Put  the  liquor  in  natural  milk  found  in 
the  cocoanut,  into  the  sugar  and  the  squeezed  cocoanut  meat. 
Put  on  fire,  stirring  constantly  until  boiling  point  is  reached. 
Strain  through  sieve,  pour  on  tapioca  and  boil  all  together 
about  15  minutes,  stirring  as  it  thickens^  Serve  hot  with  the 
cold  sauce. 

LT.  COMMANDER  LEE  P.  WARREN 

Aide  to  the  Assistant  Secretary,  U.  S.  Navy 

Chocolate  Pudding 

One  pint  of  cake  crumbs,  5  tablespoons  grated  chocolate, 
1  pt.  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Melt 
the  chocolate  and  add  milk  and  sugar,  heat  to  the  boiling 
point  and  pour  the  mixture  over  the  well  beaten  yolks,  then 
add  the  cake  crumbs  and  bake  y2  hour.  When  done,  cover 
with  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff 
with  y2  cup  of  sugar.    Set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  JOS.  I.  FRANCE 
Diplomatic  Pudding 
Place  in  a  bowl  2  ozs.  of  bread  crumbs,  \y2  ozs.  of  sugar, 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  99 


y2  oz.  of  butter,  1  oz.  of  picked  currants,  y2  oz.  finely  hashed 
sweet  almonds,  3  egg  yolks,  1  tablespoon  of  flavoring  (Mara- 
schino juice).  Mix  all  well  together  for  2  minutes  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  then  fill  6  lightly  buttered,  individual  pudding 
molds  with  the  preparation.  Lay  molds  in  tin  pan,  pour  in 
boiling  water  up  to  y2  their  height ;  set  in  the  oven,  and  after 
30  minutes  remove;  pour  a  hot  sauce  over  the  pudding  and 
serve. 

J.  V.  A.  MacMURRAY 

Chief  of  Division  of  Far  Eastern  Affairs, 
Department  of  State 

Date  Whip 

One  cup  of  stoned  dates,  y2  cup  of  boiling  water,  1  table- 
spoon of  lemon  juice,  3  egg  whites,  i/3  cup  of  sugar,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Cook  the  dates  in  boiling  water  until  tender; 
press  through  a  sieve.  Beat  whites  until  stiff;  add  sugar, 
lemon  juice  and  salt.  Carefully  fold  in  date  pulp.  Pile  lightly 
on  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  30  minutes  in  moderate 
oven.     Serve  with  cream. 

H.  W.  DIEDERICH 
American  Consul  to  Sarnia,  Ont.,  Canada 

Caramel  Pudding 

Put  3  heaping  tablespoons  of  sugar  into  1  cup  of  water 
and  boil  until  brown,  and  line  the  inside  of  a  bowl  with  this. 
Three  eggs,  well  beaten,  3  cups  of  milk,  1  level  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  and  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Strain  before  putting  into 
the  bowl.  Steam  for  1  hour  in  water.  For  serving,  turn  out 
of  the  bowl  on  a  glass  dish. 

W.  S.  HOLLIS 
American  Consul-General,  Lisbon,  Portugal 

Celestial  Pood 

Four  ounces  of  sugar,  1  oz.  of  ground  almonds,  1  oz.  of 
bread  crumbs,  flavoring  desired  (wine  substitute),  and  10 
eggs.  Put  the  sugar  into  water  and  let  boil  for  15  minutes; 
then  add  the  ground  almonds  and  bread  crumbs,  and  lastly 
the  yolks  of  the  10  eggs.    Let  the  mixture  boil  5  minutes. 


100  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


U.  S.  SENATOR  REED  SMOOT,  State  of  Utah 
Chairman,  Committee  on  Public  Lands  and  Surveys 

Peach  Pudding 

One  can  of  peaches.  Pour  off  juice  and  add  1  cup  of 
sugar,  1*4  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  melted 
butter  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Mix  in  order  given. 
Pour  over  peaches.    Steam  1  hour.    Serve  with  cream. 


SENATOR  SMOOT'S  PRAYER 

Washington,  April  5,  1917. — Just  as  the  Sen- 
ate voted  to  pass  the  war  resolution  last  night, 
Senator  Smoot  of  Utah  delivered  the  first  prayer 
ever  delivered  by  a  Senator  on  the  Senate  floor. 
Rising  in  his  place  he  said: 

"God  bless  and  approve  the  action  to  be 
taken  by  the  Senate  this  day.  Oh,  Father,  pre- 
serve our  government  and  hasten  the  day  when 
liberty  will  be  enjoyed  by  all  the  people  of  the 
earth. " 


COL.  HAMILTON 

XL  S.  Army,  Washington  Barracks 

Peach  Pudding 

Two  cans  of  peaches,  6  large  apples,  ^  lb.  of  blanched  and 
chopped  almonds,  y2  lb.  of  stale  macaroons.  Pare  and  core 
apples,  cutting  them  in  eighths.  Make  a  syrup  of  1  cup  of 
granulated  sugar  and  1  qt.  of  water;  drop  the  apples,  a  few 
at  a  time,  and  cook  until  tender,  but  not  enough  to  allow 
apples  to  become  too  soft;  remove  to  a  platter  to  cool  as  you 
take  from  syrup.  Add  the  juice  from  the  can  of  peaches  to 
the  syrup  and  let  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  keep  warm. 
Dry  and  roll  the  macaroons  until  they  are  like  bread  crumbs. 
Put  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking  dish  a  layer  of  apples  and 
cover  with  chopped  almonds  and  macaroon  crumbs,  then  a 
layer  of  peaches,  covering  each  layer  with  the  crumbs  until 
the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  the  warm  syrup  over  all  and  cover 
with  layer  of  crumbs  and  nuts.  Serve  very  hot  with  meat 
course. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  101 


U.  S.  SENATOR  F.  E.  WARREN,  State  of  Wyoming 

Chairman,  Committee  on  Appropriations 

Pig  Pudding 

Six  ounces  of  butter,  6  ozs.  of  bread  crumbs,  6  ozs.  sugar, 
3  eggs,  y2  lb.  finely  chopped  figs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  grated  nut- 
meg, y2  wine  glass  of  brandy  substitute  flavoring,  y2  teaspoon 
soda  and  y2  teaspoon  of  cream  oi  tartar.  Put  in  a  mold  and 
cook  in  boiling  water  3  hours.  Hard  sauce  to  be  served  with 
pudding. 

P.  R.  HENRY 

American  Consul  to  Teneriffe,  Canary  Islands 

Huevo  Mole 

Materials :    Six  eggs,  y2  lb.  of  sugar,  and  almond  essence. 

Directions :  Put  y2  lb.  of  white  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  add 
a  little  water  and  boil  till  it  becomes  a  syrup.  Break  the 
yolks  of  6  eggs  into  a  double  saucepan,  taking  off  the  thick 
skin  which  encloses  the  yolk,  add  a  few  drops  of  almond 
essence  and  a  very  little  bit  of  water.  Pour  the  sugar  syrup 
on  the  yolks  of  eggs,  stirring  meanwhile  and  bring  the  mix- 
ture to  a  boil,  stirring  one  way  all  the  time.  When  boiling 
take  off  the  fire  and  beat  with  a  fork,  adding  2  drops  of  water 
every  5  minutes.  The  mixture  must  be  beaten  %  of  an  hour 
until  it  has  the  consistency  of  a  thick  mayonnaise  sauce.  Serve 
in  custard  glasses.  This  is  a  delicious  Spanish  dessert,  which 
well  repays  the  time  and  trouble  in  making  it. 

JOHN  HUDDLE 

Former  American  Consul  to  Hamburg,   Germany 

Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding,  Creamy  Sauce 

Cream  3  tablespoons  of  butter  and  add  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  %  cup  of  sugar,  then  add  1  egg,  well 
beaten.  Mix  and  sift  21/4  cups  of  flour  with  4y2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  and  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  add  alternately 
with  1  cup  of  milk  to  first  mixture;  then  add  2y2  squares  of 
unsweetened  chocolate  which  has  been  melted  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan floated  in  a  larger  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Turn  into 
a  buttered  mold,  adjust  cover,  and  steam  2  hours.  Remove 
from  mold  and  serve  with  creamy  sauce. 

Creamy  Sauce :    "Work  %  cup  of  butter  until  very  creamy, 


102  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


and  add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  1  cup  of  powdered 
sugar;  then  add  y2  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  a  few  grains  of  salt, 
and  J/4  cup  of  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  Remember  in 
filling  mold  for  steaming  never  to  allow  mixture  to  fill  mold 
more  than  %  full,  for  room  must  be  left  to  allow  for  the 
rising.  For  snow  puffs  never  let  the  mold  be  more  than  y2 
full. 

EARL  B.  SEARCY 

Former  (and  first)   State  Adjutant  of  the  American  Legion 

of  Illinois 

War  Pudding 

Two  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of 
sour  milk,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  of  melted  butter.  Mix 
and  bake  slowly.  Sauce:  One  teaspoon  of  flour  to  a  cup  of 
sugar,  butter  in  generous  quantity.  Add  boiling  water  and 
3  or  4  tablespoons  of  ground  nuts. 

(Note:     This  is  the  first  recipe  I  received. — Editor.) 

REAR  ADMIRAL  FIELD,  U.  S.  Navy 

Orange  Marmalade  Pudding 

Three-fourths  scant  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup 
of  flour,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  of  hot  water, 

1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  1  tablespoon  of  marmalade. 
Dissolve  the  lemon  juice  in  the  soda  and  hot  water.     Steam 

2  to  3  hours.    Eat  with  pudding  sauce. 

MAJ.-GENERAJ,  HUNTER  LIGGETT,  U.  S.  Army 

Plum  Pudding 

To  1  qt.  of  boiled  milk,  add  (while  milk  is  hot)  rolled 
crackers  enough  to  thicken  it.  Add  y2  lb.  of  seeded  raisins, 
y2  lb.  finely  cut  citron,  y2  lb.  currants,  %  lb.  finely  chopped, 
blanched  almonds.  Add  these  ingredients  after  milk  is  cold. 
Cream,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  of  finely  chopped  suet.  Beat  whites 
of  eggs  and  yolks  separately,  adding  beaten  yolks  to  creamed 
butter,  sugar  and  suet.  Add  this  to  the  boiled  milk  and 
crackers,  and  add  raisins,  citron,  and  nuts.  Season  with  cin- 
namon, nutmeg,  cloves  and  mace.  Add  beaten  whites  of  eggs 
last.    Bake  slowly  for  1  hour. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  103 


REAR  ADMIRAL  S.  S.  WOOD,  U.  S.  Navy 

"Such  a  worthy  object  as  you  are  working  for  deserr** 
the  support  of  all  and  I  gladly  contribute  my  mite  to  add 
to  the  general  fund." — S.  W. 

Jellied  Apples 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  tart  apples ;  cut  the  quarters  into  2 
or  3  pieces,  depending  upon  the  size  of  the  apple.  Put  these 
into  an  earthen  dish — a  new  bean  pot  or  casserole  is  suitable — 
with  layers  of  sugar  between,  using  about  1^  cups  of  sugar 
for  about  1  qt.  of  apples.  Add  %  of  a  cup  of  water,  cover 
and  cook  in  a  very  slow  oven  for  3  or  more  hours.  "When 
tender  and  very  red  and  juicy  add  to  the  hot  juice  drained 
from  the  apples  a  scant  quarter  of  a  package  of  gelatine,  soft- 
ened in  cold  water,  also  a  little  lemon  juice  if  desired.  Care- 
fully lift  a  few  pieces  of  apples  at  a  time  and  lay  in  the  earthen 
bowl,  adding  1  teaspoon  of  the  liquid,  until  all  is  used.  Let 
stand  until  cold  and  set,  then  turn  out  from  the  mold  and 
ornament  with  a  piping  of  thick  cream  beaten  solid  or  sur- 
round with  thin  cream  beaten  with  a  whip  churn  and  drained. 
Syrup  from  a  jar  of  preserved  ginger  may  be  added  to  the 
cream  before  whipping.  The  apples  are  also  particularly  good 
served  hot,  without  gelatine,  with  cream  and  preserved  ginger. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  LOGAN  FELAND,  U.  S.  Army 

Mock  Plum  Pudding 

One  pound  of  finely  chopped  cooked  carrots,  %  lb.  chopped 
suet,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  6  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon 
each  of  salt,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg,  ^  teaspoon  ground  cloves, 
and  %  lb.  currants  or  mixed  fruit.  Boil  %  of  an  hour  in 
a  pudding  mold.    Serve  hot  or  cold  with  hard  sauce. 

J.  R.  BRADLEY 

American  Consul  to  Bluefields,  Nicaragua 

Baked  Bananas  and  Cocoanut  Cream 

Take  6  bananas  or  more,  place  in  a  baking  dish  and  dot 
with  butter  and  brown  sugar  thickly.  Bake  until  nearly 
candied.  Serve  with  the  cocoanut  cream  sauce.  Sauce :  Take 
3  large  cocoanuts,  remove  the  meat  from  the  shell  and  grate 
it  into  a  cheesecloth.  Squeeze  cream  from  cocoanut  into  a 
small  jug  and  set  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 


104  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

U.  S.  SENATOR  I.  L.  LENROOT,  State  of  Wisconsin 
Graham  Pudding 

Two  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts, 
1  teaspoon  of  cloves  and  1  of  cinnamon,  2  teaspoons  of  soda 
dissolved  in  the  molasses,  pinch  of  salt,  and  dessert  spoon  of 
vanilla.    Steam  3  hours. 

Sauce:  Beat  1  cup  of  sugar  and  y2  CUP  °*  hutter  to  a 
cream;  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  then  the  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs.  Keep  it  cool ;  add  vanilla  just  before  serving 
and  beat  again. 

COL.  F.  J.  MORROW,  U.  S.  Army 

Peach  Marvels 

These  peaches,  to  be  served  with  the  turkey,  are  marvels 
of  luscious  goodness.  Place  the  halves  of  perfect  canned 
peaches  in  a  baking  dish,  and  pour  over  them  the  syrup  from 
the  can.  Fill  each  cavity  with  pecans,  place  a  marshmallow 
on  each  piece  of  fruit,  and  run  in  the  stove  to  season  and 
brown  a  tiny  bit. 

ARTHUR  COOKE 

American  Consul  to  Swansea,  Wales,  B.  I. 

Baked  Bananas 

Peel  and  slice  6  bananas  lengthwise;  line  a  baking  dish 
with  them;  dot  with  butter  and  cover  with  brown  sugar; 
continue  until  dish  is  filled.  Bake  until  candied.  A  few  drops 
of  lemon  juice  improves  the  taste.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  S.  S.  WOOD,  U.  S.  Navy 

Poor  Man's  Rice  Pudding 

One  quart  of  milk,  3  tablespoons  of  rice,  4  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  (when  pudding  is  nearly  done), 
and  raisins,  if  desired.  Wash  the  rice  well,  then  add  the  sugar 
and  raisins  and  stir  into  the  cold  milk.  Put  in  a  moderate 
oven  and  let  cook  slowly  until  the  rice  is  thoroughly  cooked 
(at  least  1^  hours,  and  probably  more,  depending  upon  the 
heat  of  the  oven).  The  pudding  should  be  stirred  every  15 
minutes  to  prevent  skin  forming  over  the  top  and  keeping  the 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  105 


rice  and  raisins  well  mixed  in  the  mixture.  When  rice  is  well 
cooked  or  nearly  done  allow  the  skin  to  form  and  brown  with- 
out stirring  it  for  the  last  half  hour.  Much  depends  upon  the 
regular  stirring. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  D.  W.  TAYLOR 

Chief,  Bureau  of  Construction  and  Repair,  U.  S.  Navy 

Virginia  Tyler  Pudding 

Line  3  pie  plates  with  a  rich  pie  pastry  and  bake  until  a 
light  brown;  then  heat  the  yolks  of  4  fresh  eggs  very  light. 
Cream  2  cups  of  sugar  and  %  cup  of  best  butter.  Add  the 
yolks  to  this  and  beat  well.  Then  stir  in  by  degrees  2  cups 
of  cream,  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly,  put  into 
the  pie  crusts  and  bake  slowly  until  done. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  J.  L.  JAYNE,  U.  S.  Navy 

Thummery 
Bake  4  medium  sized  apples,  but  do  not  remove  the  skins, 
or  sweeten.  When  cold  remove  skins  and  scrape  from  core, 
removing  all  lumps.  Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  thoroughly  (not 
with  a  Dover  beater,  but  a  whip),  then  add  apple  pulp  gradu- 
ally. Add  confectioner's  sugar  to  taste  and  enough  to  smooth 
mixture.    Flavor  with  lemon.     Serve  with  cream. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  T.  H.  CARAWAY,  State  of  Arkansas 

Queen's  Basket 
Cook  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  enough  water  to  dissolve  until  it 
spins  a  thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Set  the  dish  in 
boiling  water  to  keep  the  syrup  from  hardening.  Butter  an 
inverted  bowl,  dip  macaroons  in  the  syrup  and  arrange  edge 
to  edge  over  the  bowl.  Bend  a  stiff  piece  of  cardboard,  but- 
tered, in  the  form  of  a  handle  and  set  on  the  bowl,  then  lay 
on  it,  edge  to  edge,  macaroons  dipped  in  the  syrup.  When 
firm,  remove  the  pasteboard  and  place  the  macaroon  handle 
on  the  basket  by  dipping  each  end  into  the  syrup.  Just  before 
serving  fill  with  chestnut  cream,  which  is  made  as  follows: 
Shell  and  remove  by  boiling  the  dark  skins  from  1  lb.  Italian 
chestnuts  and  boil  again  until  tender.  Mash  and  press  through 
a  sieve,  sweeten,  flavor  with  y2  teaspoon  vanilla  extract  and 
fold  in  1  pt.  of  stiffly  whipped  cream.  Decorate  with  boiled 
chestnuts,  candied  by  dipping  them  into  a  hard  syrup. 


106  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


CHARLES  S.  WILSON 

American  Ambassador  to  Bulgaria 

Fruit  Cup 

Arrange  a  box  of  hulled  strawberries  in  a  glass  dish ;  boil 

1  cup  of  sugar,  and  %  cup  of  water  5  minutes,  then  pour  in 
a  fine  stream  onto  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  which  should  be  beaten 
until  thick.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until 
thickened.  Cool,  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  pour  over  the 
fruit.  Mix  strawberries  alternately  with  pitted  cherries  and 
shredded  pineapple.  Chill  thoroughly  before  serving.  Chopped 
nuts  and  marshmallows  may  top  the  dish. 

GOVERNOR  0.  H.  SHOUP,  State  of  Colorado 
Pineapple  Delight 

One  cup  of  chopped  pineapple,  1  tablespoon  of  gelatine, 

2  tablespoons  of  rice,  %  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  whipping  cream, 
2  cups  of  boiling  water  or  pineapple  juice,  pinch  of  salt,  a  few 
preserved  cherries.  Boil  rice  until  soft,  then  drain  it.  Dis- 
solve the  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water,  add  sugar  and  rice,  cool 
slightly,  then  add  the  salt,  pineapple  and  whipped  cream.  Cool 
and  serve  in  dainty  glasses  with  a  cherry  on  top  of  each 
portion. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  HUGH  RODMAN,  U.  S.  Navy 

Prune  Honey  Pudding 

Wash  \y%  cups  of  prunes;  then  let  them  stand  just  cov- 
ered with  warm  water  for  20  minutes.  Drain,  remove  the  pits 
and  chop  the  pulp.  To  this  add  y2  pt.  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  the  grated  rind  of  %  a  lemon,  3  tablespoons  of 
honey  and  3  tablespoons  of  melted  shortening.  Then  sift  1 
cup  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  1  teaspoon  of 
salt  together  and  add  last.  Place  the  mixture  in  a  greased 
covered  mold  (1  lb.  coffee  can  is  excellent),  and  set,  weighted, 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  that  will  come  %  to  the  top  of  the 
mold.  Cook  in  this  way  or  in  a  steamer  for  2^  hours.  Serve 
with  a  sauce  made  of  1  beaten  egg,  1  cup  of  honey  and  2  tea- 
spoons of  lemon  juice,  boiled  together.  Add  hot  water  if  a 
thinner  sauce  is  desired. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

PIES 

You  never  can  tell  what's  in  a  pie  until  it  is  opened. 

— Old  Saying. 

AMERICAN  CONSULAR  SERVICE 
Florence,  Italy 

May  4,  1922. 
Madam : 

There  is  no  Mrs.  Dorsey,  except  my  mother, 
Mrs.  Ann  Elizabeth  Dorsey,  who  is  92 — almost 
100  years  American. 

I  don't  know  much  about  cooking,  but  I  hap- 
pen to  have  with  me  a  recipe  for  Lemon  Meringue 
Pie  such  as  I  have  eaten  in  my  Maryland  home 
ever  since  I  can  remember.     It's  100  per  cent  . 
American,  alright,  and  mighty  good. 

If  this  will  be  of  use  for  your  "100%  Amer- 
ican Recipes"  you  are  quite  welcome  to  it  (as  well 
as  to  the  Pumpkin  Pie  one  which  happens  to  be 
on  the  same  sheet,  and  that  I  therefore  enclose), 
especially  if  it  can  help  a  deserving  ex-service  man 
or  his  family. 

Very  respectfully  yours, 

W.  RODERICK  DORSEY, 

American  Consul. 

Lemon  Pie 

Juice  of  2  lemons,  rind  of  1  grated,  2^  cups  sugar,  2  of 
milk,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  of  butter.  Beat 
sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  together  until  very  light,  then  stir 


108  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


in  the  butter  melted,  next  the  flour  and  milk.  This  makes  2 
nice  thick  pies.  Put  in  single  crust  in  pie  pans  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  filling  is  thick.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  with  about  2  tablespons  of  sugar  until  very  stiff.  When 
the  pies  are  sufficiently  baked  spread  the  whites  as  meringue 
on  top,  sift  granulated  sugar  over  to  make  crisp  and  set  in 
oven  just  long  enough  to  brown  the  meringue. 

Pumpkin  Pie 
Two  teacups  stewed  pumpkin,  dry  and  mash  fine,  a  heavy 
y±  lb.  (say  5  ozs.)  butter,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons, 

1  wine  glass  of  brady  substitute,  sugar  to  taste  (say  2  teacups), 
5  eggs.  Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately,  add  yolks  to  ingredi- 
ents, and  stir  in  well  beaten  whites  separately  just  before 
baking.  Put  in  single  crust  in  pie  tins  and  grate  nutmeg  on 
top  of  each  pie.    This  makes  2  pies. 

GOVERNOR  C.  H.  COX,  State  of  Massachusetts 
Lemon  Pie 

Mix  one  cup  of  sugar  with  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  add 

2  eggs,  2  lemons,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cook  above  ingredients  until 
thick  and  bake  in  1  crust. 

P.  W.  GODING 

American  Consul-General,  Guayaquil,  Ecuador 

"However,  I  am  enclosing  copy  of  a  recipe  which  she 
brought  from  Montevideo,  her  home,  that  was  a  great  favorite 
with  her  and  with  me.  When  properly  made  it  is  one  of  the 
most  wholesome  and  agreeable  pies  ever  placed  upon  my  table 
and  will  be  appreciated  by  everyone  who  prepares  it." — F. 
W.  G.  (speaking  of  his  wife's  recipe). 

Spinach  Pie 

Clean  the  spinach  well  and  seperate  the  leaves  from  the 
stems,  boiling  them  in  plenty  of  water  to  which  a  little  salt 
has  been  added;  then  drain  through  a  strainer,  and  cut  into 
fine  pieces,  squeezing  until  the  juice  is  well  out,  then  add  % 
cup  of  bread  crumbs  which  have  been  soaked  in  milk.  Beat 
slightly  3  eggs  and  mix  with  a  small  cup  of  grated  cheese, 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.    Place  the  mixture  in  pie  tin  2  or  3  inches  deep,  greased 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  109 


with  butter,  the  bottom  of  which  has  been  covered  with  dough, 
for  the  under  crust ;  then  place  the  dough  for  the  upper  crust 
on  the  top  (the  mixture  nearly  filling  the  tin).  Bake  %  of 
an  hour  when  it  is  ready  to  be  served.  May  be  eaten  hot  or 
cold. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  C.  H.  MUIR 

Commanding  General,  U.  S.  Army,  Camp  Lewis,  Washington 

Courtesy  of  Mrs.  McKenzie 

Orange  Pie 

Three  large  oranges,  1  lemon,  %  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  y2  cup 
water.  Take  juice  of  oranges  and  y2  lemon,  grated  rind  of 
1  whole  lemon  and  boil  on  stove,  add  the  beaten  yolks  (3)  and 
whites  of  2  eggs,  1  small  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  and  boil 
until  thick.  Take  from  stove  and  pour  into  a  rich  pie  crust 
which  has  been  previously  baked.  Beat  the  remaining  white 
until  stiff,  add  1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar,  put  on  top  and 
brown  slowly  for  12  minutes  in  oven.    Then  you  have  a  fine  pie. 

GOVERNOR  S.  BONE,  Territory  of  Alaska 

"My  Mother's  Cream  Pie" 

One-half  pint  of  milk,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch. 
Sweeten  and  flavor.  Stir  sugar  and  cornstarch  with  a  little 
of  the  cold  milk,  add  to  the  other  milk  when  it  comes  to  a 
boil.  Beat  the  yolk  into  the  mixture  while  hot.  When  thick 
remove  from  stove.  Beat  white  of  egg  stiff,  adding  a  little 
sugar,  and  stir  into  cream  mixture.  Bake  crusts  separately. 
Add  cream  and  return  to  oven  to  brown. 

WM.  R.  LOWRIE 

American  Consul-General  to  Athens,  Greece 

Puff  Paste,  Cream  Layer 

Make  puff  paste  in  1  large  sheet,  cut  in  half  and  put  in 
the  following  cream  between  the  layers:  Cream:  Two  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks,  beaten  separately.  To  the  2  yolks  add  4 
teaspoons  of  sugar,  4  measures  of  milk  (using  y2  egg  shell 
as  a  measure),  1  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  and  a  little  salt.  Cook 
in  boiler,  stirring  constantly.  While  cooking,  dissolve  1 
heaping  teaspoon  of  powdered  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water, 
and  add  to  the  hot  cream  when  it  is  thick.    Add  y2  teaspoon 


110  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


of  lemon  extract  last.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  add 
to  the  mixture.  Let  cook  y2  hour  and  spread  between  the 
layers  of  puff  paste.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cut  into  small 
cakes. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  J.  H.  McRAE,  U.  S.  Army 

Raspberry  Custard  Pie 

Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  a  rich  pie  dough,  scattering  a 
little  flour  and  a  handful  of  sugar  in  it.  Put  in  berries,  but 
not  as  many  as  for  a  covered  pie,  one  layer  only.  Again 
scatter  a  little  flour  and  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Over 
all  pour  5  or  6  tablespoons  of  sour  cream.  Bake  as  other 
pies.    Loganberries  are  delicious  made  in  this  pie. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  W.  C.  NEVILLE,  U.  S.  M,  G. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 

One  and  \y2  cups  of  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  add  2  cups 
of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
1  grated  nutmeg.    Bake  in  a  crust  like  pumpkin  pie. 

GOVERNOR  W.  H.  McMASTER,  State  of  South  Dakota 

Lemon  Pie 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  y2  cup 
sugar,  2  teaspoons  flour.  Cook  all  this  in  double  boiler  until 
thick,  let  stand  until  cool.  Beat  whites,  add  *4  cup  sugar,  then 
tabe  about  3  tablespoons  of  the  beaten  whites  and  beat  into 
custard.  About  half  of  the  remainder  fold  in  gently.  Fill  crust 
with  above  mixture,  then  put  remaining  whites  on  top  and 
brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 

M.  B.  KIRK 

American  Consul  to  Rouen,  Prance 

Raisin  Pie 

One  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour 
cream,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  y2  cup  of  walnut  meats,  1  tablespoon 
of  vanilla  and  pinch  of  salt.  Chop  raisins  and  nuts,  stir  to- 
gether with  sugar,  seasoning  and  sour  cream.  Put  in  unbaked 
crust  and  bake  about  20  minutes.  Cover  with  meringue  or 
whipped  cream. 


H 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  111 

MAJ. -GENERAL  M.  W.  IRELAND 

Surgeon-General,  Medical  Department,  U.  S.  Army- 
Chocolate  Cream  Pie 

Two  squares  Lowney's  Premium  Chocolate  or  ^  cup  of 
Lowney's  Cocoa,  14  cup  cornstarch,  2  cups  milk,  2  egg  whites, 
Mj  cup  sugar,  3  egg  yolks,  14  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  vanilla. 
Melt  2  squares  Lowney's  chocolate  or  ^  cup  Lowney's  cocoa, 
add  sugar,  cornstarch,  egg  yolks,  salt  and  milk.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  till  thick,  stirring  constantly ;  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Pour  into  a  baked  pie  crust  shell,  cover  with  a  meringue  made 
by  beating  egg  whites  till  stiff  and  adding  2  tablespoons 
sugar ;  brown  in  oven. 

GOVERNOR  PAT  M.  NEFF,  State  of  Texas 

"The  enclosed  directions  for  making  Pecan  Pie  I  hope 
will  prove  of  service  in  the  compilation  of  your  book.  The 
pecan,  as  you  perhaps  know,  grows  more  abundantly  in  Texas 
than  in  any  other  state,  and  for  this  reason  I  thought  a  pie 
with  pecans  as  the  principal  ingredient  would  be  particularly 
fitting  as  a  recipe  from  Texas." — Mrs.  P.  M.  N. 

Pecan  Pie 

One  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  %  cup  of  pecan 
meats,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  lemon.  Place  the  milk  and  sugar 
in  a  double  boiler  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  blend  the  cornstarch 
in  these,  adding  a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  gradually  into  the 
boiling  milk.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  lemon  and 
pecans.  Pour  into  a  previously  baked  crust.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Set  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly.  Top  with  whipped 
cream. 

C.  M.  FREEMAN 

American  Consul  to  Sydney,  Nova  Scotia 

Mince  Meat 

One  pound  of  citron,  4  lbs.  of  apples  (quartered  but  not 
pared),  2  lbs.  of  raisins,  2  lbs.  currants  or  Sultana  raisins,  % 
lb.  lemon  peel,  2  lbs.  kidney  suet,  1  cup  of  molasses,  2  lbs. 
brown  sugar,  iy2  lbs.  strawberry  jam,  2  teaspoons  each  cin- 
namon, cloves,  allspice  and  nutmeg.  Small  bottle  of  almond 
flavoring,  1  medium  sized  bottle  Maraschino  cherries.    Put  all 


112  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


fruit  and  suet  through  mincer.    Recipe  calls  for  1  qt.  of  cider, 
but  try  1  pt.  at  first.    Handful  of  salt. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  H.  A.  WILEY,  U.  S.  Navy 

"The  recipe  for  which  you  asked  is  enclosed 
herewith.  Mrs.  Wiley  fears  that  this  will  not  be 
very  popular  as  in  these  days  of  economy  it  would 
appear  to  the  casual  observer  as  a  rather  expen- 
sive way  of  making  a  very  ordinary  article  of 
of  food."— H.  A.  W. 

Rich  Lemon  Pie 

Six  eggs,  3  lemons,  3  cups  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  rich 
milk  or  cream  and  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar  together.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very 
light  and  stir  into  the  butter  and  sugar.  Grate  the  rind  of  the 
3  lemons  and  squeeze  the  juice  into  the  mixture.  Add  the 
whites  (stiffly  beaten)  and  milk.  Pour  this  mixture  into  2 
baked  crusts  and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven.  The  ingredients 
should  not  be  mixed  together  till  it  is  to  be  poured  into  crusts 
and  immediately  put  in  the  oven.    This  makes  2  pies. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  U.  G.  McALEXANDER,  U.  S.  Army 
Courtesy  of  Mrs.  J.  W.  Stuhr 

Twelve  Bridge  Pies 

One  cup  white  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  seedless  raisins 
chopped  fine,  %  cup  walnut  meats,  cut;  4  tablespoons  milk, 
2  eggs.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten,  then  the  milk.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  fold  in  and  add  the  nuts  and  raisins.  Make  pastry  and 
cover  gem  pans  with  it ;  flour  the  raisins  with  2  tablespoons  of 
flour.     Top  with  whipped  cream  just  before  serving. 

GOVERNOR  L.  M.  RUSSELL,  State  of  Mississippi 

Cream  Pie 

Cream  Filling :  One  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of 
cornstarch,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Scald  the  milk,  separate  the  eggs  and  to  the 
yolks  add  the  sugar  and  beat  well;  add  to  the  scalded  milk 
slowly,  stirring  all  the  while.  Place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook 
10  minutes.  Add  the  cornstarch  and  flour,  which  has  been  dis- 
solved in  a  little  cold  water.    Stir  constantly  to  prevent  scorch- 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  113 


ing,  cooking  until  thick,  then  add  vanilla. 

Crust:  Two  cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  shortening,  y2  tea- 
spoon each,  salt  and  baking  powder,  enough  cold  water  to 
mak  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  on  a  floured  board,  line  the  pie 
plates,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  a  light  brown.  Fill  with 
the  cream  filling. 

Meringue:  Three  egg  whites,  3  tablespoons  sifted  sugar; 
beat  sugar  and  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  spread  on  pies.  Return 
to  oven  until  meringue  is  brown  and  well  set,  so  that  it  will 
not  fall  when  cold.     This  recipe  makes  2  delicious  pies. 

CONGRESSMAN  THOMAS  M.  BELL,  State  of  Georgia 

McGinty's 

Three  cups  of  dried  apples,  cooked  and  sweetened,  1  cup 
raisins,  1  cup  currants,  y2  teaspoon  each  cloves,  cinnamon  and 
allspice.  Mix  well.  Pie  crust  for  McGinty's:  Two  cups  of 
flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoon  of  butter  or  substitute,  1 
level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  6  tablespoons  of  sweet  milk. 
Mix  well  and  roll  small  amount  thin,  cut  round  with  small 
plate  and  put  fruit  on  y2  of  dough  and  fold  over  and  fork 
around  edge.    Sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  bake. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  ROBT.  DAVIS,  U.  S.  Army 

Squash  Fanchonettes 

Line  patty  pans  with  pie  crust;  then  fill  with  a  custard 
made  of  winter  squash,  stewed  and  pressed  through  a  sieve, 
and  while  warm  add  1  rounding  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  eggs 
well  beaten  with  %  pt.  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  each  of  pulverized 
cinnamon  and  ginger  and  a  generous  pint  of  warm,  rich  milk. 
After  the  shells  have  been  placed  in  the  moderate  oven  add 
enough  more  of  the  custard  to  well  fill  the  shells,  as  the  mix- 
ture shrinks  in  baking.  When  the  custard  is  firm  in  the  center 
the  pastry  should  be  removed  from  the  tins.  Serve  when  cold, 
placing  a  bit  of  whipped  cream  onto  each  top. 

PAUL  R.  JOSSELYN 

Assistant  Chinese  Secretary,  American  Legation,  Peking,  China 

Cream  Puffs 

Put  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  of  sugar  and  1  good  pinch  of 
salt  on  fire  in  1  cup  water,  until  butter  is  melted.    Remove, 


114  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


add  \y^  cups  pastry  flour  and  work  to  smooth  cream.  Then 
return  to  fire  and  stir  rapidly  until  paste  leaves  sides  of  sauce- 
pan. Let  cool  few  minutes,  then  beat  in  3  eggs,  1  at  a  time, 
and  continue  to  beat  10  minutes  longer.     Then  stand  on  ice 

1  hour.     Form  cake   2  inches   or  less  in   diameter  in  rows 

2  inches  apart  in  tin.  The  tins  should  be  warmed,  lightly 
brushed  with  lard  or  oil,  rubbed  dry  with  clean  paper,  floured, 
and  all  superfluous  flour  shaken  out  again,  before  putting  in 
the  puffs.  The  forming  is  done  with  pastry  bag.  Brush  the 
top  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  very  moderate  heat  about  35 
minutes.  "When  cooled,  slit  open  at  1  side  and  fill  inside  with 
sweet  cream  filling  or  whipped  cream. 

F.  T.  P.  DUMONT 

American  Consul  to  Frankfort,  Germany 

Date  and  Rhubarb  Pie 

Cut  the  rhubarb  into  small  pieces  and  let  it  stand  in  boiling 
water  for  10  or  15  minutes  while  making  the  pie  crust.  Line 
a  pie  tin  with  the  pie  paste  and  fill  with  rhubarb,  placing  over 
the  top  of  the  rhubarb  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  chopped 
dates.  Bake  without  an  upper  crust.  When  ready  to  serve 
cover  with  whipped  cream  and  ornament  with  stoned  dates 
stuffed  with  blanched  almond  meats. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  J.  E.  KUHN,  U.  S.  Navy 

Mince  Meat 

Three  pounds  of  beef  or  beef  tongue  minced  fine,  1  lb. 
finely  chopped  beef  suet,  4  lbs.  finely  chopped  peeled  apples, 
2  lbs.  seeded  raisins,  1  lb.  finely  chopped  citron,  y2  lb.  grated 
lemon  peel,  2  grated  nutmegs,  1  tablespoon  ground  cloves,  1 
tablespoon  allspice,  2  tablespoons  ground  mace,  1  tablespoon  of 
salt,  2  tablespoons  ground  cinnamon,  juice  of  2  lemons,  juice  of 
2  oranges,  1  quart  of  brandy  substitute.    Makes  12  qts. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

CAKES 

Optimism — A  cheerful  frame  of  mind  that  enables  a  tea- 
kettle to  sing  though  in  hot  water  up  to  its  nose. 


F.  E.  MORALES 

American  Minister  to  the  Honduras 

Banana  Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of 
flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  pinch  of 
salt.  Mix  in  order  given,  saving  1  egg  white.  Frosting: 
Beat  the  egg  white  until  stiff;  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup 
of  mashed  bananas  beaten  until  thick;  about  20  minutes  is 
necessary.  Substitute  strawberries  for  bananas  for  strawberry- 
cake. 

GOVERNOR  L.  F.  HART,  State  of  Washington 
White  Cake 

Mix  together  l1/^  cups  of  sugar,  3  cups  pastry  flour,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  1%  cups  sweet  milk.  Mix  alter- 
nately with  other  ingredients,  flour  and  milk,  add  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff  folded  in  last.  Bake  in 
3  buttered  cake  tins.  Put  together  with  sour  cream  filling, 
made  as  follows:  One  pint  sour  cream,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  % 
teaspoon  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  %  cup  of  nut  meats, 
cut  up  slightly.  Pour  sour  cream  into  double  boiler,  stir  in 
yolks  of  eggs.  Add  cornstarch  and  cook  until  mixture  thick- 
ens. Take  from  fire,  add  chopped  nuts  and  spread  between 
layers  of  cake. 


116  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

BRIG.-GENERAL  C.  £.  SAWYER 
Personal  Physician  to  President  Harding 

Sunshine  Cake 

Whites  of  10  eggs,  iy2  cups  powdered  sugar,  yolks  of  7 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  grated  lemon  rind,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon of  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  whites  until  frothy ;  add  cream 
of  tartar  and  continue  beating  until  stiff  and  dry ;  add  grated 
lemon  rind;  add  sugar,  folding  in  lightly,  then  yolks  beaten 
until  thick  and  lemon  color,  then  flour.  Bake  in  angel  food 
pan  for  40  minutes  in  slow  oven,  allowing  first  15  minutes  for 
rising.     Cool  cakes  with  pan  reversed.     Same  as  angel  food. 

GOVERNOR  EMERY  J.  SAN  SOUCI,  State  of  Rhode  Island 

"Mrs.  San  Souci's  Fruit  Cake" 

One  pound  of  currants,  1  lb.  of  seeded  raisins,  y2  lb.  of 
citron  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  cup  of  broken  nut  meats,  juice 
of  1  lemon  and  1  orange,  1  cup  of  molasses,  2  eggs,  2  cups 
of  flour,  1  teaspoon  each  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon 
cloves,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  1  scant  cup 
of  butter,  y2  cup  of  coffee  with  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  it. 
Put  cake  in  deep  pan  and  bake  2  hours  over  slow  flame. 

E.  J.  HENNING 
Assistant  Secretary,  Department  of  Labor 

Chicago  Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar  creamed  with  ^  cup  of  butter,  1  well 
beaten  egg,  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  sour  or  buttermilk,  %  tea- 
spoon each  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  1  small  square  of  choco- 
late (bitter),  melted  over  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon 
extract,  2  cups  of  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
y2  teaspoon  soda.  Beat  well.  Frosting:  Two  cups  confec- 
tioner's sugar,  1  teaspoon  butter  mixed  into  sugar,  square  of 
melted  chocolate,  enough  cream  to  make  it  creamy  (not  too 
much).    Spread  on  cake. 

C.  M.  FREEMAN 

American  Consul  to  Sydney,  Nova  Scotia 

Sultana  Cake 
One  and  one-quarter  lbs.  white  sugar,   1%  lbs.  flour,  4 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  117 


eggs,  2  lbs.  Sultana  raisins,  %  lbs.  butter,  1  pt.  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Flavor  with  lemon  and  rose  water. 
Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  cream,  add  eggs  lightly  beaten,  then 
milk  and  flour  alternately  and  raisins.  Bake  2%  hours  in 
slow  oven. 

COL.  ALBERT  W.  SWALM 

American  Consul  to  Hamilton,  Bermuda. 

Excellent  Sponge  Cake 

Three  eggs,  the  weight  of  eggs  in  sugar,  the  weight  of  2 
eggs  in  flour,  juice  of  an  orange.  Place  sugar,  orange  juice 
and  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  basin  and  beat  well,  then  add  beaten 
whites  of  eggs  and  flour  gradually,  alternating  them.  Bake 
in  slow  oven  until  nice  brown. 

JUSTICE  WILLIS  VAN  DEVANTER 

United  States  Supreme  Court 

Cake 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  2y2 
cups  Swansdown  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of 
tartar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs 
beaten  very  light.  Beat  together.  Add  milk,  taking  out  a  little 
in  which  to  dissolve  soda ;  sift  cream  of  tartar  into  flour.  Beat 
well.     Add  milk  and  soda,  beat  thoroughly,  and  bake. 

NEWTON  BAKER 

Former  Secretary  of  War 

Mocha  Icing  (For  Cake) 

Cream  5  tablespoons  of  butter  (or  good  substitute),  2  cups 
granulated  sugar,  4  teaspoons  of  cocoa.  Cook  over  hot  water 
until  smooth.  Add  3  tablespoons  of  strong  coffee  and  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla. 

H.  C.  WALLACE 

Secretary  of  Agriculture 

Old  Time  Spice  Cake 
Melt  1  tablespoon  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  y2  cup 
dark  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  hot  water.     Stir  till  smooth  and 
keep  warm.     Put  3  cups  flour  in  sifter  and  add  1  teaspoon 


118  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  tea- 
spoon nutmeg,  pinch  of  ginger.  Cream  y%  cup  butter,  y2  cup 
brown  sugar,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  the  chocolate  preparation,  1 
cup  sour  milk.  Beat  thoroughly  and  stir  in  flour  and  1  cup 
each  floured  nuts  and  dates.  Bake  in  a  sheet  and  cover 
with  icing  made  of  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

GOVERNOR  W.  D.  DENNY,  State  of  Delaware 
"Minnie  Ha  Ha"  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  6  eggs.  Cover  with  boiled 
sugar  icing,  add  nuts  and  raisins. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  W.  M.  WRIGHT 

U.  S.  Army,  "Presidio,"  San  Francisco 

L'Africane 

One  good  cup  sugar,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  V/2  cups 
of  flour,  sifted  twice,  1  small  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  y2 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  4  tablespoons  of  milk,  flavor  with 
vanilla.  This  makes  a  3-layer  cake  with  cream  filling  between 
layers.  Cover  all  with  a  chocolate  sauce.  Make  filling  with  2 
cups  milk,  large  cup  sugar,  2  small  eggs,  2  scant  tablespoons 
cornstarch.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

GOVERNOR  J.  HARTNESS,  State  of  Vermont 

Sunshine  Sponge  Cake 

Four  eggs,  beat  the  yokes  and  whites  separately,  add  to 
the  whites  1  cup  of  sugar,  to  the  yolks  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 
drop  by  drop,  stirring  continually.  Beat  yolks  and  whites 
until  very  stiff,  lightly  mix  the  two.  Sift  flour  4  times  and 
lightly  fold  in  1  cup  of  flour.    Bake  in  medium  oven. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  C.  J.  BAILEY 

U.  S.  Army,  Ft.  Howard,  Maryland 

Sour  Cream  Cake 

Two  eggs  in  a  cup,  which  fill  with  sour  cream,  1  cup  sugar, 
1  cup  flour.  Beat  all  together  for  a  minute ;  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
1  scant  teaspoon  bi-carbonate  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  very  little 
hot  water.    Bake  in  small  tins  or  layer  cake  tins. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  119 


A.  A.  WINSLOW 

American  Consul-General,  Cape  Town,  South  Africa 

Date  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  small  y%  cup  of  butter,  y^  cup  sweet  milk, 
4  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  1%  cups  of  flour,  before  sifting ; 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Bake 
slowly.  May  be  baked  in  square  tins  or  in  layer  cake  pans, 
and  used  for  cocoanut  layer  cake. 

H.  C.  HENGSTLER 
Chief  of  Consular  Bureau,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Ohio  Cake 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  2%  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
together  until  creamy.  Beat  eggs  separately,  add  yolks  to 
creamed  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  milk,  beat  well.  Then 
add  whites  of  eggs,  then  flour.  In  the  last  half  cup  of  flour 
stir  in  the  baking  powder.  Bake  2  layers.  Then  to  the  third 
layer  add  cup  of  chopped  raisins  and  1  lb.  chopped  English 
walnuts,  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  allspice,  grated 
nutmeg  to  taste.  Put  this  layer  in  center  when  puting  together 
and  put  orange  filling  between  layers  and  ice  cake  all  over 
with  any  desired  icing. 

A.  6.  SNYDER 

American  Consul-General,  Christiania,  Norway 

"I  have  a  number  of  recipes  of  my  mother's  (Mrs.  C.  P. 
Snyder),  but  as  she  was  specially  noted  throughout  our  section 
of  "West  Virginia  for  her  cake,  I  am  sending  you,  for  Mrs. 
Snyder  and  myself,  2  of  her  old  cake  recipes,  which  I  hope 
may  be  of  some  service  to  you. 

"If  we  can  assist  you  in  this  worthy  undertaking  in  any 
other  way,  please  do  not  hesitate  to  let  us  know." — A.  G.  S. 

Date  Cake 

Twelve  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  cracker  dust,  %  cake 
chocolate  (Baker's),  y%  teaspoon  allspice,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  lb.  dates,  ^  lb. 
raisins,  almonds  and  brandy  substitute.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar 
until  light,  add  cracker  dust,  chocolate  and  spices,  lastly  beaten 
whites.    Bake  in  mold  in  moderate  oven. 


120  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

U.  S.  SENATOR  WESLEY  JONES,  State  of  Washington 

Sponge  Cake 

Four  eggs,  1  scant  cup  of  sugar,  1  scant  cup  of  sifted 
flour,  3  tablespoons  of  water  (no  baking  powder).  Cream  yolks 
of  eggs  and  sugar  until  very  light,  put  in  water,  then  add 
flour,  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  very  stiff.  Do  not  beat 
mixture.    Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  50  minutes. 

6.  H.  KEMPER 

American  Consul  to  Sofia,  Bulgaria 

Spice  Cake 

Yolks  of  10  eggs,  y2  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  Zy2  cups 
flour,  iy2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  large  tea- 
spoons cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  each  allspice  and  cloves,  4  or  5 
dried  figs,  4  or  5  dates.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  then 
butter,  then  spices,  milk,  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder. 
Batter  must  not  be  too  thick.  All  the  flour  need  not  be  used. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  a  biscuit  tin,  first  sprinkling  the 
chopped  figs  and  dates  over  the  batter.  Place  greased  paper 
in  bottom  of  pan.  Test  with  straws.  When  done  cut  in 
squares. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  THOMAS  SNOWDEN 

U.  S.  Navy,  General  Board 

Nut  Cake 

One-fourth  pound  butter  creamed  with  y2  lb.  powdered 
sugar.  Add  whites  of  6  unbeaten  eggs  (1  at  a  time),  %  CUP 
of  milk,  1%  cups  of  flour.  Beat  well  and  add  1  cut  English 
walnuts  and  y2  cup  almonds  chopped  fine,  add  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Flavor  with  almond  extract.  Bake  about  1 
hour  in  a  loaf  pan. 

FOSTER  BAIN 

Director,  Bureau  of  Mines. 

Prune  Cake 

One-half  eup  of  butter,  iy2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  sour  milk, 
y2  scant  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  each  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon,  1  cup  chopped  prunes,  1  cup  chopped  figs,  2 
eggs.    Mix  and  bake  like  other  cakes. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  121 

GOVERNOR  W.  DAVIS,  State  of  Virginia 
Chocolate  Cake 

Part  1.  One-half  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  y2  cake 
chocolate,  1  egg.  Cook  all  this  until  smooth  and  thick.  Take 
off  and  let  cool. 

Part  2.  One  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  milk,  2  eggs, 
2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda  (put  in  the  milk),  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  put  in  yolks  of 
eggs  (beat  whites  separately),  put  in  flour  and  whites.  Pour 
in  Part  1  and  add  milk.  Bake  in  3  layers.  Ice  with  following : 
Two  large  cups  white  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  y2  cake  of 
chocolate,  butter  size  of  large  egg.  Cook  until  you  can  take 
in  fingers  like  dough,  after  dropping  a  little  in  cold  water. 
Take  off  fire  and  beat ;  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla.    Spread  on  cake. 

CAPT.  N.  E.  IRWIN,  U.  S.  Navy 
Commandant,  U.  S.  Navy  Yards,  Portsmouth,  N.  H. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

One  heaping  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  fresh  sour 
apple  sauce,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1%  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  raisins, 
y2  cup  walnut  meats,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  each  kind  of  spices. 
Bake  about  2  hours  in  moderate  oven. 

GEORGE  S.  MESSERSMITH 

American  Consul  to  Antwerp,  Belgium 

Lady  Cake 

Three-fourths  cup  of  butter,  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  2^  cups 
flour,  \y2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  whites  of  6  eggs,  flavoring. 
This  may  be  baked  either  as  a  loaf  or  layer  cake  and  cocoanut 
spread  between  layers  and  on  top. 

GOVERNOR  W.  R.  FARRINGTON,  Territory  of  Hawaii 

Coffee  Spice  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs  y2  cup  of 
strong  coffee,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  % 
teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  mixed  spices.  Mix  as  usual  and  use 
coffee  instead  of  milk.  Bake  in  2  layers  in  moderate  oven  45 
minutes.  Filling:  One  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  \y2 
cups  confectioner's  sugar,  \y2  tablespoons  cocoa,  %  teaspoon 


122  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


salt,  3  tablespoons  strong  coffee.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add 
cocoa,  salt  and  coffee,  stir  until  smooth.  If  too  dry,  add  more 
coffee.    If  too  moist,  more  sugar. 

C.  M.  FREEMAN 

American  Consul  to  Sydney,  Nova  Scotia 

Scotch  Cakes 

One-half  cup  of  brown  sugar  (removing  all  lumps),  1  cup 
of  butter,  2  cups  of  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  work  in 
the  flour  and  spread  into  pan.  Bake  in  medium  oven  20 
minutes. 

GOVERNOR  N.  E.  KENDALL,  State  of  Iowa 

Pound  Cake 

One  pound  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  1  lb.  flour,  9  eggs, 
leaving  out  2  yolks,  grated  peel  of  1  lemon.  Beat  whites  to 
stiff, froth  and  the  butter  to  a  cream;  add  sugar  to  the  yolks 
and  beat  until  very  light,  then  the  flour  and  whites  of  eggs 
alternately.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

P.  R.  BEARDSLEY 

Mayor  of  Muskegon,  Michigan 

Devil's  Food 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  4  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  2  squares  melted  chocolate,  1  cup  sweet  milk  in  which 
1  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  dissolved,  1^  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  2  layers  about  20  minutes.  Icing: 
Two  tablespoons  butter,  l1/^  cups  powdered  sugar.  Cream 
thoroughly  and  add  2^>  tablespoons  sweet  cream,  2  tablespoons 
cocoa,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

DAVID  B.  MACGOWAN 

American  Consul  to  Vladivostok,  Siberia 

Nut  Cakes 

Six  egg  yolks,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  2  cups  finely  ground 
nut  meats,  almonds  or  walnuts,  1  level  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
%  teaspoon  salt,  6  egg  whites,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  egg 
yolks  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  nuts,  salt  and  baking  powder. 
When  well  mixed  add  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  vanilla.    Bake 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  123 


in  2  layers.  When  cold,  put  between  the  layers  cream  which 
has  been  beaten  stiff,  sweetened  and  flavored.  Put  cream  on 
top,  making  fancy  designs  with  pastry  bag. 

COL.  H.  J.  BISHOP 

General  Staff,  XL  S.  Army 

Angel  Food  Cake 

Whites  of  11  eggs,  1%  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup 
sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Put  cream  of  tartar  into  the  flour  and  sift  5  times;  sift  sugar 
3  or  4  times;  beat  eggs  to  very  stiff  froth;  add  sugar  and 
pinch  of  salt,  then  add  flour  gradually  and  last  vanilla,  mix 
carefully.  Turn  into  an  ungreased  tube  tin.  It  is  best  to  flour 
the  tin  well  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  1  hour.  Take  pan 
from  oven  and  turn  up  side  down  until  cake  is  cool. 

GOVERNOR  J.  J.  BLAINE,  State  of  Wisconsin 
White  Cake 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  scant  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup 
milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1%  cups 
sifted  flour.  Mix  baking  powder  and  flour  several  times. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter;  add  vanilla,  add  part  of  milk  and 
little  flour ;  beat ;  add  remainder  of  milk  and  flour ;  beat  again 
and  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  2  layers. 
Filling:  White  of  1  egg,  \y2  cups  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup 
water.  Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  bubbles  all  over  the  pan ; 
pour  2  tablespoons  syrup  on  beaten  egg  and  beat  a  little.  Boil 
remainder  to  a  hard  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Pour 
over  egg  and  beat  till  ready  for  cake. 

GOVERNOR  W.  D.  DENNY,  State  of  Delaware 
Ribbon  Cake 

One  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups 
flour,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  3  layers. 
One  layer  adding  y2  lb.  raisins,  y2  lb.  citron  and  currants,  4 
tablespoons  of  dark  molasses,  little  flour  and  spice.  After 
baking  spread  lemon  butter  between  layers.  Cover  cake  with 
boiled  sugar  icing,  made  as  follows:  Two  cups  granulated 
sugar,  y2  cup  water,  cooked  to  a  syrup  added  to  2  whites  well 
beaten. 

Lemon  Butter:    One-half  lb.  granulated  sugar,  yolks  of  3 


124  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


eggs,  2  lemons,  %  lb.  butter.     Add  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 
and  cook  in  double  boiler. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  H.  L.  MEYER,  State  of  Montana 
Buttermilk  Cake 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  2  cups  buttermilk,  1  cup  of  butter, 
2^2  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  1  lb.  each  raisins  and  English  walnuts, 
2  level  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  1  teaspoon 
each  vanilla,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  allspice.  Meas- 
ure flour  before  sifting.  Bake  in  square  tin  1  hour.  Ice  with 
chocolate  icing. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  FRANK  McINTYRE,  U.  S.  Army 
Devil's  Food  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  1*4  cups  brown  sugar,  3  thoroughly 
beaten  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  sifted  flour,  y2  cake  (large) 
Baker's  chocolate,  1  tablespoon  vaiilla,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Cream 
together  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  eggs,  then  milk,  then  flour. 
Add  melted  chocolate,  vanilla,  and  soda.  Bake  in  2  layers  and 
ice  with  icing  made  as  follows:  Boil  together  2  cups  brown 
sugar  and  y2  cup  water  until  the  syrup  forms  a  ball  between 
the  fingers  when  dropped  into  water.  Pour  into  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs  and  beat  until  of  consistency  to  spread  on  cake. 

GOVERNOR  L.  J.  FRAZIER,  State  of  North  Dakota 
Syrup  Cake 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  shortening,  1  cup  dark  Karo 
syrup,  1  cup  boiling  water,  2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  the 
water,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste,  2y2  cups  of 
flour,  lastly,  well  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Filling :  One  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  water,  y2  cup  chopped  raisins.  Boil 
sugar  and  water  till  it  threads.  Add  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs, 
then  add  raisins. 

A.  G.  SNYDER 

American  Consul-General,  Christiania,  Norway 

Creole  Cake 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk, 
yolks  of  6  eggs  in  sugar  and  butter,  3  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  125 


baking  powder,  vanilla  to  taste,  12  tablespoons  grated  chocolate 
mixed  with  enough  warm  water  to  make  smooth  and  stir  in 
cake.    Mix  and  bake  as  other  cakes. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  J.  E.  RANSDELL,  State  of  Louisiana 
"Mother's  Favorite  Cake" 

Beat  3  eggs  until  light,  add  iy2  cups  of  sugar  and  beat 
again ;  add  y2  cup  of  soft  butter  and  beat  from  3  to  5  minutes 
longer.  Add  1  cup  of  milk  and  beat  once  more.  Measure  3 
cups  of  flour,  adding  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Sift  twice  and  add  in  2  parts  to  the  mixture,  stirring  in  thor- 
oughly each  time.  Bake  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven.  A  nice 
addition  to  this  cake  is  1  cup  of  raisins,  currants  or  nut  meats. 

CONGRESSMAN  E.  0.  LEATHERWOOD,  State  of  Utah 

Strawberry  Shortcake 

Four  cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  shortening,  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  y2  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  sweet 
milk  to  make  soft  dough.  Divide  the  dough  and  roll  into  2 
layers,  butter  each,  turn  buttered  sides  together  and  bake  in 
heavy  tin  until  a  nice  brown.  Separate  the  layers  and  cover 
each  with  a  thick  layer  of  chopped  and  sweetened  straw- 
berries. Place  one  layer  on  the  other.  Serve  with  a  dip  of 
chopped  and  sweetened  berries. 

REV.  E.  A.  BLACKMAN  (the  "Fighting  Parson") 
National  Chaplain  of  the  American  Legion 

Devil's  Food 

Cream  y2  cup  of  butter  with  2  cups  of  brown  sugar;  add 
2/4  cup  of  boiling  water,  y2  cup  of  sour  cream  and  1  level  tea- 
spoon of  soda.  Mix  9  teaspoons  of  cocoa  with  y2  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Add  2  cups  of  flour,  1  table- 
spoon of  vanilla  and  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Filling:  Two  cups 
of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  water,  2  tablespoons  of  corn  syrup,  y±  tea- 
spoon of  cream  of  tartar  and  whites  of  2  eggs. 

A.  C.  FROST 

American  Consul,  Guatemala  City,  Guatamala 

Swiss  Jelly  Roll 
One  gill  of  sugar,  1  gill  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  hot  water, 


126  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


3  eggs,  y2  tablespoon  baking  powder  and  3  tablespoons  of  jam. 
Cream  egg  yolks  and  sugar.  Whip  whites.  Add  flour  and 
baking  powder  to  yolks,  add  hot  water,  fold  in  whites  (beaten). 
Bake  in  hot  oven  15  minutes.  Turn  out  on  damp  cloth,  spread- 
ing on  the  jam  and  then  rolling  up. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  PETER  NORBECK,  of  South  Dakota 

Date  Cake 

One-half  package  of  dates,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  level  tea- 
spoon soda,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  egg,  2  cups  of  flour. 
Cut  dates  in  small  pieces  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them 
(add  soda  to  water).  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg,  well 
beaten,  add  flour,  then  the  dates  and  water.  Beat  thoroughly 
and  bake  in  a  loaf  in  moderate  oven.  Add  y2  cup  of  walnuts 
if  desired. 

B.  S.  RAIRDEN 
American  Consul,  Curacao,  "West  Indies 

Coffee  Loaf  Cake 

One  third  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  molas- 
ses, y2  cup  strong  coffee,  2  eggs,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  cup  of 
walnuts,  2  cups  of  flour,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda.  Beat  the  butter 
and  sugar,  add  the  molasses,  then  the  beaten  yolks  and  coffee ; 
sift  flour  and  soda  and  add;  then  whites  of  eggs,  fruit  and 
nuts.    Bake  for  about  1  hour. 

WM.  R.  GREEN 

Congressman  of  Iowa 

Strawberry  Shortcake 

Sift  together  1  pt.  of  flour,  \y2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
i/4  teaspoon  of  salt  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar ;  work  into  this, 
as  for  biscuit,  4  tablespoons  of  butter;  stir  into  all  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk.     Pour  into  buttered  pans  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

MAJOR  HUGH  M.  CALDWELL 

Mayor  of  Seattle,  Washington 

Chocolate  Roll 

Yolks  of  5  unbeaten  eggs,  adding  y2  cup  powdered  sugar, 
2  tablespoons  cocoa,  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch.    Beat  whites 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  127 


stiff  and  stir  in  with  other  ingredients;  beat  all  this  for  10 
minutes.  Bake  for  5  minutes  in  well  greased  and  floured  pans. 
While  warm  spread  filling  on  and  roll  like  jelly  roll.  Filling : 
5  eggs,  y2  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cocoa,  1  table- 
spoon cornstarch,  y2  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Use  same  day  as 
made. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  H.  C.  HALE,  U.  S.  Army 
Lemon  Jelly  Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar,  3  cups  of  flour,  5  eggs,  %  of  a  cup  of 
milk,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda,  y2  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and 
flavor  to  taste  with  vanilla,  lemon,  or  orange.  This  cake 
requires  a  great  deal  of  beating  to  make  it  light.  Bake  in 
round  tins  and  spread  with  lemon  jelly. 

Lemon  Jelly:  Grate  2  lemons,  rind  and  pulp,  mixing  1 
coffee  cup  of  white  sugar,  lump  of  butter,  size  of  egg;  2  well 
beaten  eggs  (together).  Boil  until  smooth  and  place  between 
layers. 

H.  M.  WOLCOTT 

American  Consul  to  Bilbao,  Spain 

Quick  Cake 

One-third  cup  soft  butter,  1%  cups  brown  sugar,  2  eggs, 
y2  cup  milk,  1%  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  y2  lb.  dates,  cut 
and  stoned,  or  1  cup  raisins.  Put  ingredients  in  bowl  and  beat 
all  together  3  minutes.    Bake  35  to  40  minutes. 

BRIG.  GENERAL  E.  HINDS,  Ft.  Sill,  Oklahoma 

Angel  Food 

"Whites  of  12  eggs,  1  large  tumbler  of  flour,  measured  after 
sifting  5  times,  \y2  tumblers  of  granulated  sugar,  measured 
after  sifting  once ;  put  sugar  and  flour  together  and  sift  twice 
more ;  one  level  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla ; 
beat  the  eggs  (whites),  when  beginning  to  stiffen  add  cream  of 
tartar,  then  beat  to  stiff  froth.  Fold  in  flour  and  add  vanilla. 
Bake  about  50  minutes  in  an  unbuttered  pan.  When  cake  has 
risen  and  beginning  to  brown,  put  a  dripping  pan  of  cold  water 
on  the  grate  in  the  oven  so  it  will  not  become  too  brown  while 
being  cooked  through. 


128  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

IT.  S.  SENATOR  J.  E.  RANSDELL,  State  of  Louisiana 

Lemon  Loaf  Cake 

Cream  together  1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  drop  in  4 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  stirring  until  well  blended  each  time,  but 
do  not  beat  the  eggs.  Add  1  cup  of  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  with 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  These  should  be  added  alternately 
in  the  usual  way.  The  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  furnishes  the 
flavoring.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  %  of  an  hour.  The  tem- 
perature should  be  even  to  produce  the  close,  fine  grain  given 
by  the  unbeaten  eggs  and  the  scant  allowance  of  baking 
powder. 

JOHN  McCLOY,  Commander  of  the  U.  S.  S.  Cormorant 

(Through  courtesy  of  Mrs.  McCloy,  National  President, 
"Women  of  the  Army  and  Navy,"  and  also  "Legion  of  Valor, 
U.  S.  A.") 

Ice  Cream  Layer  Cake 

Use  white  cake  recipe.  In  one  layer  use  white  of  egg,  in 
another  add  yolk,  strawberry  filling  in  third.  Ice  2  with 
chocolate  and  1  with  white  icing. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  C.  E.  TOWNSEND,  of  Michigan 

Chairman,  Committee  on  Postoffices  and  Post  Roads 

Gold  Cake 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  1^  cups  of  sugar,  2^  cups  of  flour, 
%  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla. 

CAPT.  RALPH  EARLE,  U.  S.  Navy 

Strawberry  Shortcake 

Two  cups  of  flour,  *4  cup  of  sugar,  4  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  %  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  nutmeg,  1  egg,  Ys  cup  of 
butter,  iy2  cups  of  milk.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  twice ; 
work  in  shortening;  add  egg  well  beaten  with  milk;  mix  and 
place  on  floured  board.  Roll  out  %  inch  in  thickness.  Place 
in  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven ;  when  done  split  and  spread  with 
crushed  berries  which  have  been  well  sugared;  spread  over 
with  whipped  cream  and  cover  with  top  layer ;  spread  top  with 
whipped  cream  and  decorate  with  whole  berries. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  129 


DR.  G.  G.  SCHNEIDER,  of  Milwaukee 

Blitz  Torti 

One-fourth  sup  of  shortening,  y2  cup  sugar,  yolks  4  eggs,  4 
tablespoons  milk,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Spread  this  mixture  on  2  well  buttered  cake 
pans;  then  beat  whites  of  4  eggs  until  stiff  enough  to  stand 
alone,  then  add  1  cup  sugar.  Blend  well  with  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  spread  over  the  yellow  mixture.  Last  of  all,  cut  blanched 
almonds  over  this,  white  of  egg  top.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
15  or  20  minutes.  Put  the  layers  together  with  a  filling  made  of 
1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  1  egg,  V/2  cups 
of  milk. 

BRIG.  GENERAL  G.  V.  H.  MOSELEY,  U.  S.  Army 

Strawberry  Shortcake 

One  and  y2  pts.  of  flour,  well  sifted,  3  level  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  %  cup  butter  %  CUP  lard. 
Mix  all  these  together  until  they  feel  mealy,  then  stir  in  milk 
until  the  dough  can  be  handled  easily;  then  roll  out  on  the 
board  in  2  round  thin  layers  in  greased  pans.  Take  3  qt.  boxes 
of  strawberries,  pick  out  3  dozen  for  top.  Put  2  cups  of  what 
are  left  in  a  saucepan,  crush  them  with  little  sugar,  and  set 
them  on  stove  to  heat  slowly,  but  not  to  cook  at  all.  Put  the 
rest  in  bowl  with  sugar  and  set  in  warm  place.  "When  the  crust 
is  done,  put  it  on  a  large,  slightly  buttered  platter,  butter  the 
layers,  put  the  warmed  berries  over  both  layers,  the  large 
berries  over  the  top,  and  the  hot  juice  over  all. 

ALEXANDER  J.  GROESBECK 

Governor  of  Michigan 

Conover  Cake 

One-half  cup  sweet  milk,  yolk  of  1  egg,  4  heaping  tea- 
spoons cocoa ;  cook  until  thick,  add  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  sweet 
milk,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  sweet  milk,  4  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  iy2  cups  of  flour,  vanilla.  Filling:  1  square 
chocolate  or  tablespoon  cocoa;  melt  in  1  cup  boiling  water, 
1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  heaping  tablespoon  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  water  to  make  paste.  Cook  until  thick; 
add  salt  and  vanilla.    Spread  on  cake. 


130  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

COL.  A.  A.  STARBIRD,  U.  S.  Army 

Easy  Fruit  Cake 

Cream  together  %  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  shortening;  add 
y2  cup  molasses,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  raisins,  2  cups  of  flour.  Bake  about 
y2  to  1  hour  in  slow  oven. 

COL.  A.  A.  STARBIRD,  U.  S.  Army 

Fruit  Cake 

One  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  granulated  sugar,  10  eggs;  mix  well 
by  creaming  sugar  and  butter  then  adding  well  beaten  eggs. 
Take  1  lb.  shredded  citron,  1  lb.  seeded  raisins,  1  lb.  currants 
dredged  with  1  cup  of  flour.  Then  into  the  first  mixture  put 
y2  teacup  of  black  coffee  (cold),  y2  teacup  of  black  molasses, 
2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  all- 
spice; mix  this  into  batter,  stirring  thoroughly  until  smooth. 
Then  add  y2  lemon  and  y2  orange  chopped  fine  to  which  has 
been  added  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Add  2  cups  sifted  flour  and 
batter  will  be  quite  stiff.  Grease  pans  and  line  with  greased 
or  wax  paper.  Press  down  the  batter  with  wet  hands  until 
within  an  inch  of  the  top  of  pan.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for 
1  hour.    Let  cool  in  pan  before  removing. 

PAUL  JOSSELYN 
Assistant  Secretary,  American  Legation,  Peking,  China 

Huckleberry  Cake 

One  quart  of  huckleberries,  3  cups  of  flour,  4  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  1  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  milk,  1 
scant  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  grated  nutmeg,  2  cups 
of  sugar.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until  light 
and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  the  milk,  nutmeg, 
cinnamon  and  the  whipped  whites.  Also  add  the  flour,  into 
which  the  baking  powder  has  previously  been  sifted,  and  mix 
well.  Discard  all  berries  that  are  not  perfectly  ripe  and  fresh, 
and  dredge  the  rest  well  with  some  flour;  add  them  to  the 
dough,  but  be  careful  not  to  mash  them  in  mixing.  Pour  into 
buttered  tins  in  layers  about  an  inch  thick,  dust  the  top  with 
sugar  and  bake.  For  the  best  results  make  this  cake  twenty- 
four  hours  before  you  want  to  use  it. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  131 

REAR  ADMIRAL  H.  0.  STICKNEY,  U.  S.  Navy 

Angel  Cake 

Whites  of  9  eggs  beaten  to  very  stiff  froth,  1  cup  of  flour, 
1  cup  XXXX  sugar  (finest  confectioner's),  %  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar,  %  teaspoon  (no  more)  almond  extract.  Beat  the 
eggs  about  3  minutes,  then  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  con- 
tinue beating  until  very  stiff,  then  put  in  the  sugar  and  flavor- 
ing and  lastly  fold  in  the  flour,  very  gently.  Line  a  cake  pan 
with  buttered  paper  and  bake  in  rather  quick  oven  about  35 
minutes.  Use  great  care  not  to  jar  or  shake  oven  or  it  is  apt 
to  fall. 

COMMANDER  0.  M.  OMAN 

Medical  Director,  U.  S.  Naval  Medical  School,  "Washington 

Devil's  Food 

One  cup  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter,  ^  cup  of  boiling  water 
poured  over  2  squares  of  chocolate,  */£  cup  of  sour  cream  or 
milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  mixed  in  cream  or  milk,  1  egg,  1  large 
cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  square  or  biscuit 
pan.    Cover  with  white  or  mocha  frosting. 

GOVERNOR  W.  D.  DENNY,  of  Delaware 

Federal  Cake 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  1  lb.  sugar, 
1  lb.  flour,  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda  put  in  cream,  y% 
lb.  butter.  Mix  first  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  cream,  flour 
and  eggs,  2  lbs.  seeded  raisins,  1  nutmeg,  essence  of  lemon,  2 
tablespoons  brandy  substitute.  Bake  in  pan  1^  hours  in  mod- 
erate oven.    Cover  with  boiled  sugar  icing. 

GOVERNOR  SCOTT  C.  BONE 

Territory  of  Alaska 

Allies'  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  whites  of  four  eggs, 
one  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Beat  butter  to  cream.  Add  baking  powder  to  flour,  sift  three 
times.    Do  not  beat  eggs.    Four  layer  cake. 

"My  wedding  cakes  were  made  from  this  unfailing 
recipe." — Mrs.  Scott  C.  Bone,  Juneau,  Alaska. 


132  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

PAUL  H.  GRAM 

American  Consul  to  Nancy,  France 

NOTE :  This  is  the  only  cake  ever  been  known  to  be  made 
without  baking. 

Uncooked  Fruit  Cake 

One  and  ^  lbs.  of  seeded  raisins,  y2  lb.  of  dried  currants, 
%  lb.  of  dates,  y2  lb.  of  figs,  y2  lb.  of  candied  cherries,  V2  lb. 
of  crystallized  pineapple,  %  lb.  of  citron,  %  lb.  of  shelled 
pecans,  2  cups  of  oatmeal,  iy2  cups  of  wheat  biscuit,  1 
cup  of  grape  juice,  1  cup  of  thick  blackberry  juice,  %  cup 
of  strained  honey,  4  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  spices  to  flavor 
well. 

Combine  the  fruit  juices  and  drop  into  them  a  few  pieces 
of  cinnamon  bark,  a  few  whole  cloves,  allspice,  and  about  an 
eighth  of  a  teaspoon  of  nutmeg.  Place  the  mixture  over 
a  slow  fire  and  allow  it  to  simmer  until  it  is  well  flavored  with 
the  spices.  Do  not  let  it  boil  rapidly  at  all,  and,  when  flavored, 
remove  it  from  the  fire  and  strain  through  cheesecloth. 

Run  the  oatmeal  and  wheat  biscuit  through  a  meat  chop- 
per before  measuring.  Reheat  the  fruit  juice  to  the  boiling 
point,  and  pour  it  over  the  cereals;  then  cover  it  closely  and 
set  it  away  overnight. 

Prepare  the  fruit  and  the  nuts  as  for  the  usual  fruit  cake. 
The  currants  will  need  washing  through  half  a  dozen  waters 
and  must  dry  overnight.  If  one  prefers  they  may  be  left  out 
and  the  same  amount  of  some  other  fruit  used  instead ;  but  the 
flavor  of  the  currant  will  repay  one  for  the  extra  trouble  of 
cleansing.  The  nuts  are  best  broken  into  small  pieces;  the 
raisins,  dates,  figs,  pineapple  and  citron  cut  into  bits,  and  the 
cherries  left  whole.  When  ready  to  mix  measure  the  honey 
and  olive  oil,  and  stir  them  into  the  cereals  and  fruit  juice. 
Combine  the  nuts  and  fruits  and  work  them  into  this,  using  the 
hands.  The  mixing  must  be  done  in  a  large  pan  so  as  to  blend 
everything  thoroughly. 

Line  a  pan  with  white  paper  brushed  over  with  olive  oil. 
Pack  the  mixture  in  this,  a  little  at  a  time,  pressing  it  down 
until  it  is  perfectly  solid.  Decorate  the  top  with  nuts  and 
cherries,  and  cover  it  with  a  paper  brushed  in  oil. 

Put  the  cake  in  a  covered  bread  tin  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
place  for  several  weeks  or  longer.  Several  days  before  cutting 
it  wrap  it  in  a  cloth  wet  with  grape  juice. 


THE  ALL-AMEKICAN  COOK  BOOK  133 

HERN  ADO  DE  SOTO 
American  Consul  to  Leipzig,  Germany 

Chocolate  Marshmallow  Roll 

Melt  1  square  of  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  4  eggs  and 
y2  cup  sugar,  and  beat  over  hot  water  until  lukewarm.  The 
mixture  should  be  light  and  foamy.  Remove  from  fire,  beat 
until  cold,  add  %  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  salt  (%  teaspoon), 
cream  of  tartar  (y2  teaspoon)  and  soda  (%  teaspoon). 
Fold  over  and  over  and  turn  into  a  dripping  pan  which  has 
been  lined  with  buttered  paper.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
ten  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  sheet  of  paper  which  has  been 
sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar,  spread  with  marshmallow  fill- 
ing, roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll,  roll  paper  tightly  around  cake,  and 
leave  until  cool.  Spread  with  plain  chocolate  frosting.  Cut  in 
slices. 

Marshmallow  Filling  for  Above 
Six  oz.  marshmallows,  1  egg  (white),  \y2  cups  confec- 
tioner's sugar,  2  tablespoons  cold  water.  Put  half  of  the 
marshmallows  to  melt  over  hot  water.  When  softened  add  one 
white  of  egg,  sugar  and  water,  heat  over  boiling  water  for 
about  7  minutes.  Remove  from  stove,  add  remaining  marsh- 
mallows, cut  in  small  pieces  and  fold  over  and  over  until  mix- 
ture is  cool  and  will  hold  its  shape. 

Chocolate  Frosting  for  Above 
Melt  two  squarts  of  chocolate  over  hot  water.    Add  1  tea- 
spoon of  butter  and  3  tablespoons  boiling  water  and  stir  in 
enough   confectioner's  sugar,   gradually,  until  mixture  is   of 
right  consistency  to  spread,  then  add  %  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  L.  R.  DE  STEIGUER 
U.  S.  Navy,  Cuba 

Meringues 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  whites  until  stiff  and 
dry,  add  gradually  %  cup  of  sugar,  constantly  beating.  Fold 
in  remaining  sugar  after  adding  baking  powder,  then  vanilla. 
Drop  about  1  tablespoon  for  each  meringue  on  greased  tin  and 
bake  in  very  slow  oven  25  to  30  minutes.  When  ready  to 
serve  put  together  in  pairs  and  fill  with  whipped  cream.  This 
quantity  will  make  about  ten  meringues. 


134  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

GOVERNOR  T.  C.  McRAE,  of  Arkansas 

White  Cup  Cakes 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  whites  of  6  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  and  bake  in  3  layers. 

H.  C.  HENGSTLER 

Chief  of  Consular  Bureau,  Department  of  State 

Crullers 

Two  cups  of  soft  "A"  sugar,  2  cups  sweet  skimmed  milk, 
3  eggs  beaten  repeatedly,  6  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  12 
tablespoons  melted  lard,  pinch  of  salt.  Enough  flour  to  roll 
out.    Cook  in  deep  fat. 

CONGRESSMAN  DAN  SUTHERLAND 

Delegate  from  Alaska 

"Mother's  Doughnuts" 

One  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  1  egg,  1  cup 
of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  level  teaspoonful  ginger,  1  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg,  flour  to  roll  soft. 

FRANK  BOHR 

American  Consul  to  Cienfuegos,  Cuba 

French  Cream  Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  iy2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  2  tablespoons  water.  Bake  in  large  layer  pans, 
split  and  add  for  filling.  Custard :  2  small  teaspoons  of  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  part  of  a  small  pint  of  milk.  When  nearly 
boiling  stir  in  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  small  ^2  cup  of  butter. 
Cook  and  stir  until  you  can  drop  it  with  a  spoon ;  add  vanilla. 

REAR  ADMDfcAL  H.  0.  STICKNEY,  U.  S.  Navy 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake 

Two  cups  of  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  1 
level  teaspoon  soda,  2  level  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  cup 
of  milk  or  water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar  together.  Add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  cup  of  water  or 
milk,  flour  sifted  twice  (reserving  y2  cup  to  sift  in  the  last 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  135 


thing  with  cream  of  tartar  and  soda).  Fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  then  the  remainder 
of  the  flour,  cream  of  tartar  and  soda.  Do  not  beat  after  this. 
Use  hollow  pans  and  bake  in  4  layers,  20  to  30  minutes. 
Filling :  3  cups  of  sugar,  3  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  stiff  froth, 
8  tablespoons  of  water,  scant  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  cup  seeded 
raisins,  1  cup  dried  figs,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  %  cup  of 
citron.  Boil  the  sugar  until  it  forms  soft  ball  (about  6  min- 
utes) ;  pour  slowly  over  the  whites  of  eggs  (which  have  been 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth) ;  continue  beating  until  icing  is  thick 
enough  to  spread.  Take  out  enough  icing  for  sides  and  top 
of  cake,  and  to  the  remainder  add  the  fruit  and  flavoring  which 
is  to  be  used  as  filling.  Decorate  top  of  cake  with  walnuts 
(halves),  raisins  and  slender  slices  of  green  citron. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  JAMES  E.  WATSON,  of  Indiana 

Doughnuts 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs  (beaten  together),  1  small 
cup  of  sugar,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  flour  to  thicken  so  as  to  roll  out 
soft,  little  nutmeg  or  desired  flavoring.    Fry  in  deep  hot  fat. 


136  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


GREETINGS 

EMBASSY  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 

Paris,  May  5th,  1922. 
My  dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

I  am  very  pleased  to  send  you  my  cordial 
greetings  and  best  wishes  for  the  success  of  your 
admirable  work  in  behalf  of  our  wounded  and 
unemployed  ex-service  boys. 

Very  sincerely  yours, 

Myron  T.  Herrick. 

GREETINGS  FROM  SIAM 

AMERICAN  LEGATION 
Bangkok,  Siam 

February  27,  1922. 
Dear  Madam: 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  fifth  ultimo 
and  gladly  assure  you  of  my  warm  support  of  any 
project  intended  materially  to  assist  unemployed 
and  wounded  ex-service  men.  The  present  whole- 
hearted endeavor  should  not  fail  to  commend 
itself  to  the  American  people. 

Wtih  sincere  regards,  believe  me, 
Yours  very  truly, 

EDWARD  E.  BRODIE, 

American  Minister. 


Greetings   from   the   Commander-in-Chief   of  the   Italian 
Armies : 

SENATO  DEL  REGNO 

Roma,  li  8,  2,  1922. 

To  the  American  soldiers  wounded  in  the 
great  world  war  and  that  still  suffer  for  the  sacri- 
fice offered  by  them,  I  send  my  best  greeting, 
which  recollects  strength  of  feeling,  of  pride  and 
of  faith. 

May  the  conscience  of  having  accomplished 
bravely  their  duty,  the  sympathy  which  surrounds 
them  and  the  best  wish  of  a  comrade  be  of  com- 
fort to  them. 

F/to  GENERALE  A.  DIAZ. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

COOKIES 

Hunger  is  the  best  sauce. — Old  Proverb. 


E.  A.  DOW 

American  Consul  to  Algiers,  Algeria 

Corn  Flake  Kisses 

Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  pinch  of  salt. 
Then  take  the  following  ingredients  and  stir  them :  %  cup  of 
sugar,  2  cups  corn  flakes,  y2  cup  cocoanut,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla 
extract.  After  stirring  these  thoroughly,  drop  with  teaspoon 
on  greased  pan.    Bake  about  twenty-five  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

WILLIAM  COFFIN 

American  Consul  General,  Berlin,  Germany 

Molasses-Oatmeal  Cookies  (for  Children) 

Heat  a  half  cup  molasses  to  boiling  point,  add  y2  cup  but- 
ter, then  add  (stirring  continually),  \y2  cups  of  raw  oatmeal, 
%  cup  of  sugar,  1  scant  cup  of  flour.  Drop  portions  the  size 
of  ordinary  cookies  from  spoon  on  large  buttered  pan  several 
inches  apart. 

L.  MEMMINGER 

American  Consul,  Leghorn,  Italy 

Brownies 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  of 
flour,  1  cup  nuts,  2  squares  of  chocolate.  Cream  the  butter  and 
add  the  sugar  gradually.  Beat  the  eggs  and  then  add  the 
flour,  chocolate  and  nuts.  Drop  from  spoon  on  buttered  pans. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


138  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

GOVERNOR  J.  0.  PREUS,  of  Minnesota 

Fruit  Cookies 

One  cup  butter,  \y2  cups  brown  or  white  sugar,  3  eggs,  y2 
cup  molasses,  3  teaspoons  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  1  cup  raisins.  Mix  quite 
soft,  roll  thin,  and  bake  as  other  cookies. 

CAPT.  N.  E.  IRWIN,  U.  S.  Navy 

Commandant,  U.  S.  Navy  Yards,  Portsmouth,  N.  H. 

Brownies 

One  cup  sugar,  y2  CUP  melted  butter,  2  unbeaten  yolks  of 
eggs,  y2  cup  of  flour,  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  added  alternately, 
1  cup  walnuts,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook  in  medium  oven  25 
minutes. 

A.  A.  WINSLOW 

American  Consul-General,  Cape  Town,  South  Africa 

Cookies 

Two  cups  sugar,  %  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  butter,  2  eggs, 
y2  teaspoon  soda,  nutmeg  and  flour.  Do  not  mix  too  stiff.  Bake 
in  quick  oven. 

BRIG.  GENERAL  W.  R.  SMITH 

U.  S.  Army,  Fort  Sam  Houston,  Texas 

Cookies 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  juice  of  1  lemon, 
flour  enough  to  roll  (about  3  cups) ;  add  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder  to  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  eggs  (well 
beaten),  add  lemon  juice.  Sift  baking  powder  with  flour.  Add 
to  the  rest.  Place  on  ice  over  night.  Then  roll  as  thin  as 
possible,  cut  with  cookie  cutter  and  bake. 

C.  M.  HATHAWAY 

American  Consul  to  Dublin,  Ireland 

Cocoanut  Rocks 

Ten  oz.  flour,  y2  lb.  of  butter,  6  oz.  of  shredded  cocoanut, 
8  oz.  sugar,  4  eggs.  Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  adding 
cocoanut  and  flour  by  degrees,  then  the  eggs,  still  beating  the 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  139 


mixture,  drop  in  small  spoonfuls  on  buttered  baking  tin.  Bake 
in  quick  oven.  Takes  about  8  minutes  to  bake.  Will  make 
about  30  cakes. 

GOVERNOR  E.  J.  LAKE,  of  Connecticut 

Nut  Cakes 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  4  tablespoons  flour, 
!/4  teaspoon  baking  powder,  meats  from  1  lb.  English,  walnuts. 
Save  out  15  or  20  walnuts  for  tops  of  little  cakes  and  chop  the 
rest  and  add  to  batter.  One  teaspoon  of  batter  on  greased 
tin  for  each  cake. 

DR.  ROSE,  IT.  S.  P.  H.  Hospital  Drexel,  Chicago,  111. 

Through  courtesy  of  Asst.  Chief  Dietitian,  Mr.  F.  M.  Bumsted. 

Rich  Cookies 

One-half  cup  butter,  %  cup  sugar,  1  well  beaten  egg,  % 
cup  flour,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla,  raisins,  nuts,  citron.  Cream 
butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  eggs,  flour  and  vanilla.  Drop 
from  top  of  spoon  in  small  portions  on  buttered  sheets,  two 
inches  apart.  Spread  thinly  with  a  knife  first  dipped  in  cold 
water.  Put  four  raisins,  citron  or  almonds  on  each  cookie. 
Bake. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  E.  F.  LADD,  of  North  Dakota 

Corn  Flake  Macaroons 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  3  cups  of  corn 
flakes,  1  cup  shredded  cocoanut,  y2  cup  walnut  meats.  Beat 
the  whites  of  eggs  very  light  and  dry;  add  sugar  and  beat 
again;  then  add  other  ingredients;  drop  by  teaspoon  on  well 
greased  pans.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

CAPT  H.  E.  IRWIN,  U.  S.  Navy 
Commandant  U.  S.  Navy  Yard,  Portsmouth,  N.  H. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  %  teaspoon  salt,  y2 
teaspoon  vanilla,  2  cups  Quaker  Oats.  Beat  butter  into  a 
cream,  then  add  sugar  and  cream  together.  Add  salt,  then 
egg,  beaten  slightly.  Stir  in  oatmeal  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
Drop  from  small  teaspoon  2  inches  apart  on  baking  sheet- 


140  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


greased  slightly  with  lard.  Bake  in  moderate  oven,  watching 
constantly.  Remove  when  well  browned  and  let  cool  a  few 
minutes  before  removing  from  baking  sheet. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  B.  M.  FERNALD,  of  Maine 

Chairman  Committee  on  Public  Buildings  and  Grounds 

Walnut  Goodies 

First  part:  One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  V/2 
cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Second  part :  One  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  cup 
brown  sugar,  white  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  shorten- 
ing and  sugar;  add  eggs  beaten;  sift  and  mix  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt;  add  to  first.  Butter  tin  and  spread  mixture 
over  it,  then  beat  white  of  egg  stiff  with  brown  sugar  and 
vanilla.  Spread  over  all.  Bake  y2  hour  in  moderate  oven. 
Cut  in  squares  while  warm. 

GOVERNOR  E.  J.  LAKE,  of  Connecticut 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

One  cup  of  sugar  creamed  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  3  well 
beaten  eggs,  2  cups  rolled  oats,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  pinch  of  salt.  Butter  pan  and  drop  y2  tea- 
spoonful   of  mixture  3  inches  apart.     Will  make  about   60. 

GOVERNOR  0.  H.  SHOUP,  of  Colorado 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

One  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  melted  butter,  2  eggs,  2y2  cups 
oatmeal.  Mix  ingredients  in  order  given  and  drop  with  tea- 
spoon on  buttered  pans.    Bake  a  light  brown. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  L.  H.  BALL,  of  Delaware 

Albany  Cakes 

One  lb.  of  sugar,  y2  lb.  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  1  egg,  y2 
pint  sour  cream  with  y2  teaspoon  soda,  1%  lbs.  of  flour.  Let 
stand  in  icebox  over  night.  In  the  morning  roll  in  long  pieces 
and  twist  around  to  form  a  small  cookie.  Sprinkle  top  with 
granulated  sugar. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  141 

GOVERNOR  N.  L.  MILLER,  of  New  York 
Brownies 

'""-  3 

One  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  melted  butter,  2  eggs,  2  squares 

melted  chocolate,  1  cup  broken  walnut  meats,  y%  cup  of  flour, 

pinch  salt.     Mix  in  order  given  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

When  cool  cut  in  pieces  y2  inch  in  width. 

W.  R.  WILLIAMS 

Former  Assistant  Secretary  of  "War 

Soft  Ginger  Cakes 

One  cup  black  molasses,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup 
butter,  1  cup  sour  milk  in  which  y%  teaspoon  soda  has  been 
dissolved,  3  beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoons  ground  ginger;  cream 
butter  and  sugar,  then  add  other  items.  Add  flour  to  make 
stiff  batter.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  muffin  rings  or  pan. 

H.  S.  WATERMAN 

American  Consul,  San  Jose,  Costa  Rica 

Surprise  Cookies 

One  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  2^  cups 
grated  cocoanut,  whites  of  3  eggs  and  yolk  of  one,  2  tablespoons 
cocoa,  pinch  of  salt,  vanilla.  Mix  in  saucepan  and  put  on 
stove  to  melt  together.  Drop  from  spoon  on  buttered  pan  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven. 


142  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


UNITED  STATES  SENATE 
Committee  on  the  Library 

March  20,  1922. 

My  dear  Madam : 

I  received  your  letter  of  March  10th.  I  would 
be  very  glad  to  help  you,  but  I  don't  know  how  to 
cook  anything  in  the  world  except  hard-boiled 
eggs,  and  I  imagine  everybody  knows  that.  I  can 
also  make  a  cup  of  coffee,  but  when  I  do,  I  make  it 
so  strong  that  the  dregs  have  to  be  drained  out 
of  it  with  cheesecloth.  One  good  cup  of  it,  though, 
threatens  a  man  with  delirium  tremens.  I  don't 
think  any  of  my  recipes  would  help  your  book. 
My  recipe  for  cooking  hard-boiled  eggs  is  to  "put 
them  in  boiling  water  and  then  forget  it."  If  you 
forget  them  long  enough,  they  are  hard-boiled. 

Very  truly  yours, 
JOHN  SHARP  WILLIAMS 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

FROZEN    DESSERTS    AND 
BEVERAGES 

Where  there  is  no  peace,  there  is  no  feast. — An  Ancient 
Saying. 


CHARLES  EVANS  HUGHES 

Secretary  of  State 

Frozen  Strawberries 

Mash  1  qt.  of  strawberries,  add  %  cup  of  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  1  lemon;  stand  aside  for  1  hour,  then  add  1  pt.  of 
water;  turn  into  a  freezer  and  freeze  in  the  same  way  as 
ordinary  ice  cream.  Turn  the  dasher  slowly.  Frozen  straw- 
berries may  be  served  in  punch  glasses  plain  with  a  little 
whipped  cream  over  them. 

GOVERNOR  WM.  D.  STEPHENS,  of  California 

Orange  Ice  Cream 

One  pt.  of  California  orange  juice,  1  pt.  of  whipped  cream, 
1  pt.  of  plain  cream  and  sugar  to  taste.  Beat  orange  juice 
gradually  into  cream ;  freeze  and  pack  2  hours. 

(Editor's  Note:  The  orange  has  been  named  officially  as 
the  Golden  State's  favorite  fruit.) 

REAR  ADMIRAL  S.  S.  ROBINSON 

United  States  Military  Governor,  Dominican  Republic 

Ice  Cream  from  the  Tropics 

Grate  the  meat  from  3  medium  sized  cocoanuts  and  wrap 
in  cheesecloth;  squeeze  until  all  the  milk  is  extracted;  add  to 


144  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


the  milk  4  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar,  2  cans  of  pre- 
served jam,  peaches,  strawberries,  apricots  or  raspberries. 
Freeze.     This  will  serve  12  people. 

Note :  In  places  where  ice  cream  is  not  obtainable  it  makes 
a  good  substitute  for  ice  cream. 

G.  E.  CHAMBERLIN 
American  Consul  to  Glasgow,  Scotland 

Apricot  Sherbert 

One  qt.  of  preserved  apricots,  1  large  lemon,  4  oz.  sugar 
and  1  pt.  of  water.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar  until  they  form 
a  thick  syrup  (from  15  to  20  minutes),  press  the  apricots 
through  a  sieve  into  the  mixture,  using  only  the  juice  in  which 
they  are  preserved;  add  the  lemon  juice  and  when  cold  freeze 
as  usual. 

H.  FOSTER  BAIN 

Director,  Bureau  of  Mines 

Blackberry  Ice  Cream 

One  qt.  of  milk  thickened  to  consistency  of  cream,  with  flour 
and  water  (as  one  thickens  gravy) ;  cook  15  minutes  in  double 
boiler  to  remove  taste  of  raw  flour;  sweeten  to  taste  and  add 
\y<2  teaspoons  of  vanilla  and  about  2  cups  of  blackberry  jam 
(or  to  taste),  and  freeze. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  D.  C.  SHANKS,  U.  S.  Army 
Fruit  Acid 

Four  quarts  of  fruit  and  2  qts.  of  boiling  water.  Put  on 
the  stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Put  in  a  flannel  bag  and  let 
drip.  Add  1  cup  of  sugar  to  each  of  fruit  and  juice ;  add  6  ozs. 
of  tartaric  acid  to  the  whole,  and  serve  very  cold. 

GOVERNOR  A.  0.  BROWN,  State  of  New  Hampshire 
Uncooked  Grape  Juice 

One  quart  of  grapes  (preferably  wild),  picked  from  the 
stems,  \y<z  cups  of  sugar.  Fill  jars  with  boiling  water  and  seal. 
Leave  for  6  months.  Sterilize  the  jars  thoroughly.  After  wash- 
ing the  grapes  rinse  them  in  sterilized  water  in  the  jar.  Set 
jar  in  warm  water  while  adding  the  boiling  water. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  145 


COL.  W.  S.  McNAIR 
Chief-of-Staff,  Army  of  Occupation,  Coblenz,  Germany 

Combination  Fruit  Ice 

Three  oranges,  3  lemons,  3  ripe  bananas,  3  cups  of  water 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Squeeze  juice  from  the  lemons  and  oranges, 
mash  bananas  to  pulp  with  a  fork;  add  water  and  sweeten 
generously.     Freeze.     Pineapple  juice  may  be  added. 

GOVERNOR  B.  W.  OLOOTT,  State  of  Oregon 

Dessert 

Heat  2  cups  of  milk  to  the  boiling  point  in  double  boiler. 
Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  very  light  and  mix  with  %  cup  of  sugar ; 
add  this  to  hot  milk  and  cook  it  until  custard  coats  the  spoon ; 
remove  from  the  fire  at  this  point.  Soften  1  tablespoon  of 
gelatine  in  y2  cup  of  cold  water;  add  to  the  custard  and  let 
cool.  Stir  in  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  very 
stiff  and  fold  into  y2  pt.  or  1  cup  of  whipped  cream.  As  soon 
as  the  custard  begins  to  set  fold  it  into  the  whipped  cream  and 
eggs.    Chill  in  mold  and  serve  with  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

REAR  ADMIRAL  J.  L.  LATIMER 

Judge  Advocate-General,  U.  S.  Navy,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Frozen  Pudding 

Three  cups  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  %  teaspoon  salt,  2  eggs,  1 
cup  heavy  cream,  %  cup  rum  substitute,  1  cup  candied  fruit. 
Cut  fruit  in  small  pieces  and  soak  1  hour  in  rum  substitute 
to  cover.  Make  custard  of  milk,  sugar,  salt  and  eggs,  strain, 
cool,  add  cream  and  rum  substitute  and  then  freeze.  Pack 
in  mold  and  let  stand  1  or  2  hours.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

J.  H.  GOODIER 

Former  American  Consul  to  Palma  de  Malorca,  Spain 

Charlestown  Punch 

Juice  of  2  doz.  lemons,  2  doz.  limes,  and  1  large  diced 
pineapple,  1  qt.  of  seeded  cherries,  2  qts.  of  ginger  ale,  2  qts. 
of  Appolinaris  water,  large  piece  of  ice  and  sugar  to  taste. 
This  beverage  is  used  for  receptions  instead  of  punches  having 
wine  in  them.  A  100  per  cent  American  beverage,  being  used 
for  "D.  A.  R."  receptions. 


146  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

MAJ.-GENERAL  CLARENCE  R.  EDWARDS 

Ginger  Ale 

Put  1  qt.  of  chipped  ice  in  a  gallon  jug,  and  add  1  lb.  of 
sugar  and  1  tablespoon  strong  ginger,  and  shake  well.  Add 
1  pt.  of  best  cider  vinegar  and  fill  the  jug  with  water. 

ALBERT  OTTINGER 
Asst.  Attorney-General,  Dept.  of  Justice,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Ginger  Cream 

Soak  y2  box  of  pulverized  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  water  (cold) 
for  several  hours.  Add  1  cup  of  hot  water,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
and  some  preserved  ginger  cut  fine.  Stir  all  together  until 
it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  2  cups  of  whipped  cream  (stiff). 
Set  away  to  harden  in  mold. 

MAJOR  0.  N.  SOLBERT 

American  Military  Attache  to  London,  England 

Mint  Sherbet 

Bruise  in  a  mortar  a  bunch  of  mint  and  add  1  pt.  of 
boiling  water ;  steep  for  20  minutes  and  strain  carefully.  Boil 
the  mint  water  with  iy2  cups  of  sugar  for  10  minutes,  then 
remove  from  fire  and  add  juice  of  3  oranges,  1  cup  of  pine- 
apple juice,  and  the  milk  from  a  cocoanut.  Turn  into  the 
freezer,  and  when  half  frozen  add  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

JAMS   AND   PICKLES 

It  has  been  observed  that  "Change  is  the  sauce  that  sharp- 
ens appetite." — An  Ancient  Saying. 


FREDRICK  M.  RYDER 

American  Consul-General  to  Vancouver,  B.  C,  Canada 

Apple  Ginger 

Four  pounds  of  sour  apples,  4  lemons,  2  lbs.  of  sugar 
and  1  oz.  of  ginger  root.  Pare,  core  and  chop  apples;  wash, 
remove  seeds  and  chop  lemons;  add  sugar  and  ginger  root, 
and  cook  very  slowly  6  hours.     Pour  into  glasses  and  seal. 

GOVERNOR  M.  C.  MECHEM,  State  of  New  Mexico 
Preserved  Quince 

This  is  different  from  the  kind  that  our  mothers  used 
to  make,  but  is  very  palatable.  The  quince  flourishes  in  New 
Mexico  to  an  unusual  degree,  and  the  quality  of  the  fruit  is 
the  finest  of  any  on  the  market.  In  preparing  this  preserve 
always  ask  for  New  Mexico  quinces. 

Take  12  large,  ripe  quinces  and  peel  and  quarter  them, 
leaving  the  seeds  and  core,  and  boil  in  clear  water  slowly  until 
tender.  While  hot,  press  them  through  a  colander,  or  remove 
the  seeds  and  cores  and  run  the  fruit  through  a  meat  grinder. 

To  1  cup  of  quince  take  1  cup  of  sugar  and  mix  in  a 
graniteware  kettle,  and  cook  slowly  about  y2  an  hour,  or  until 
you  are  able  to  see  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  through  the  liquid, 
and  if  none  of  the  mixture  sticks  to  the  pan  it  has  cooked 
enough.    Take  it  from  the  stove  and  beat  it  as  you  would  beat 


148  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


an  egg,  continually,  until  it  becomes  cold,  when  it  should  be 
put  in  small  molds,  just  large  enough  for  serving  1  person.  As 
soon  as  it  has  hardened  it  is  ready  to  use. 

It  is  difficult  to  give  exact  directions  for  making  this 
preserve,  but  if  one  acquires  the  art  of  it  they  will  find  it  well 
worth  the  effort. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  MILES  POINDEXTER,  State  of  Washington 

Chairman,  Committee  on  Mines  and  Mining 

Orange  Marmalade 

One  grapefruit,  1  orange  and  1  lemon.  Slice  the  fruit 
peel  and  all;  to  1  cup  of  fruit  add  3  cups  of  cold  water,  letting 
it  stand  over  night;  next  day  boil  until  the  rind  is  tender, 
letting  it  again  stand  over  night.  To  1  cup  of  fruit  add  1  cup 
of  sugar.  Let  juice  come  to  a  boil  and  add  sugar,  letting  it 
boil  until  it  jellies. 

FRANK  W.  MAHIN 
American  Consul  to  Amsterdam,  Netherlands 

Raspberry  Jam 

One  and  %  lbs.  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  fruit.  Put  the  sugar 
in  preserving  kettle  and  allow  to  melt  slowly  on  the  back 
of  the  stove,  being  careful  it  does  not  burn ;  it  will  take  several 
hours  for  the  sugar  to  melt.  When  very  hot  add  the  rasp- 
berries and  boil  very  fast  3  minutes,  when  it  will  be  clear 
and  ready  to  put  in  glasses.  Currants  or  strawberries  may  be 
treated  in  the  same  way. 

Note :  This  method  of  making  jam  gives  all  the  flavor  of 
fresh  fruit  and  beautiful  color. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  D.  W.  FLETCHER,  State  of  Florida 

Orange  Marmalade 
One  orange,  1  lemon,  and  1  grapefruit  (thick  skinned  is 
best).  Remove  skins  in  quarters.  Boil  %  of  an  hour;  change 
water  and  boil  %  of  an  hour;  repeat  and  drain;  *4  of  peel 
strip  in  fine  pieces  and  %  of  peel  grind  coarsely  in  meat  chop- 
per. Slice  the  fruit,  remove  seeds,  core ;  mix  with  the  peel  and 
cover  with  3  times  its  weight  in  water.  Boil  1  hour.  Add  equal 
weight  in  sugar  and  boil  1  hour,  or  until  the  syrup  is  the  color 
of  amber  and  as  thick  as  honey.  Put  into  glasses ;  cover  with 
melted  paraffine  when  cold. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  149 


MAJ.-GENERAL  WILLIAM  WIEGEL,  U.  S.  Army 

Celestial  Jam 

Put  through  food  chopper  iy2  lbs.  of  raisins  (seeded), 
2~y2  lbs.  pitted  cherries,  4%  large  oranges,  pulp  and  rind,  and 
5  lbs.  of  sugar.    Boil  very  slowly  1  hour.    Seal  while  hot. 


"My  dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

"Please  pardon  by  long  delay  in  answering 
your  letter  of  March  15,  1922.  I  have  been  wait- 
ing for  my  property  to  arrive  from  Camp  Dix, 
N.  J.,  in  which  I  have  many  valuable  recipes  gath- 
ered during  my  long  service  in  the  army,  but,  at 
the  present  time,  this  property  is  still  somewhere 
en  route.  Hence,  I  will  consider  it  a  favor  if  you 
will  put  my  name  to  one  or  more  recipes  that  you 
may  furnish  to  put  in  your  book. 

"I  heartily  indorse  your  work,  and  I  believe  a 
book  of  this  kind  will  bring  in  a  good  revenue  to 
the  dependent  families  and  wounded  of  our  late 
war.  No  doubt  it  will  be  both  valuable  to  the 
people  who  buy  such  a  book  for  the  many  valuable 
recipes  contained  therein,  but,  in  addition,  it  will 
be  a  souvenir  of  this  generation  to  the  generations 
to  come  in  that  it  contains  the  names  of  the  dis- 
tinguished men  of  this  time.  I  assure  you  that 
you  have  my  hearty  support,  and  you  are  at 
liberty  to  associate  my  name  with  one  or  more 
recipes  that  you  may  select. 

"I  deem  it  an  honor  to  be  asked  to  contribute 
this  mite  to  such  a  worthy  cause.  I  trust  my 
tardiness  in  writing  may  not  have  held  up  your 
publication. 

"Sincerely  yours, 

"WILLIAM  WEIGEL, 
"Brig.-General,  U.  S.  Army." 


150  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

L.  L.  EEENA 

American  Consul-General  to  Warsaw,  Poland 

Pineapple  Conserve 

One  lb.  of  dried  apricots  which  have  been  soaked  1  hour, 
1  large  diced  pineapple,  4  oranges  and  y2  lb.  of  English 
walnut  meats.  Gently  simmer  and  add  to  each  cup  of  fruit 
1  cup  of  sugar.  When  consistency  of  marmalade  it  is  ready 
to  seal. 

MAJ.-GENERAL  JOHN  F.  MORRISON,  U.  S.  Army 

Grape  Conserve 

Five  pounds  of  grapes,  4%  lbs.  of  sugar,  1  lb.  of  raisins 
and  %  lb.  nuts.  Pulp  grapes  and  cook  until  seeds  may  be 
removed  easily;  then  strain  and  add  skins  and  other  ingredi- 
ents.    Cook  about   30   minutes. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  J.  L.  KERNAN,  U.  S.  Army 

Blackberry  Pickle 

Boil  7  lbs.  of  blackberries  with  5  lbs.  of  sugar  and  1  pt. 
of  best  cider  vinegar  until  berries  are  done.  Skim  out  the  ber- 
ries, boil  the  juice  until  thick  as  syrup,  pour  over  the  berries, 
cover  and  keep  in  cool  (not  cold)  place.  Will  keep  several 
months  without  being  sealed. 

GOVERNOR  N.  L.  MILLER,  State  of  New  York 

Pumpkin  Conserve 
Pare  and  cut  in  small  pieces  (cubes)  7  lbs.  pumpkin,  5  lbs. 
sugar,  mix  and  stand  over  night.    In  morning  slice  1  orange 
and  3  lemons.    Bring  all  to  a  boil  and  simmer  until  done. 

GOVERNOR  ROBERT  D.  CARY,  State  of  Wyoming 

Chutney 
Four  cups  of  sliced  sour  apples,  8  cups  of  chopped  green 
tomatoes,  4  cups  of  chopped  raisins,  1  shallot,  chopped,  %  cup 
of  salt,  2  onions  chopped,  6  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  qt.  of  best 
vinegar,  1  inch  of  ginger  root,  and  1  teaspoon  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Mix  all  ingredients  and  cook  all  day.  Cool,  then  boil 
hard  for  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Fill  sterilized  jars; 
seal  while  hot. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  151 


CONGRESSMAN  A.  T.  SMITH 

Chairman,  Committee  on  Alcoholic  Liquor  Traffic 

Sweet  Pickles 

Take  ordinary  sour  cucumber  pickles  and  slice  them  very 
thin.  Place  between  the  layers  of  the  sliced  pickles  sugar, 
mixed  with  pickling  spices.  Let  them  stand  for  24  hours  before 
using  and  serve  in  quantity  desired. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  F.  B.  WILLIS,  State  of  Ohio 

Corn  Salad 

Twelve  large  ears  of  corn,  13  large  onions,  large  stalk  of 
celery,  4  green  peppers,  4  red  peppers,  *4  cup  of  salt,  1  small 
cabbage,  3  pts.  of  best  cider  vinegar,  and  2  lbs.  of  brown  sugar. 
Cut  corn  from  the  cob  and  grind  with  other  ingredients.  Boil 
all  together  for  20  minutes ;  take  from  fire  and  add  3  teaspoons 
of  mustard  dissolved  in  cold  water.     Seal  while  hot. 


152  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


Mrs.  Gertruble  Stafford  Brebner, 
Chicago,  Illinois. 

''I  congratulate  you  on  your  very  laudable  'double-bar- 
reled' ambition.  It  is  certainly  a  fine  and  noble  idea  to  aim 
for  such  beneficial  and  material  assistance  for  the  Disabled 
Veterans,  and  it  is  almost  equally  praiseworthy  to  teach  the 
people  of  this  country  how  to  cook.  I  am  only  sorry  that  I 
can't  write  you  out  a  recipe,  but  you  are  quite  at  liberty  to 
tag  any  dish  south  of  the  Mason  and  Dixon  Line  with  my  mark. 
I  make  this  condition,  as  I  was  bred  in  'Old  Kentucky,'  and 
my  tastes  sorter  run  to  Southern  dishes." — General  Radford. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

CONFECTIONERY 

There  is  a  best  way  to  do  everything,  even  if  it  be  but 
to  boil  an  egg. — R.  W,  Emerson. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  J.  W.  RUCKMAN 

(Placed  in  memory   of  General  Ruckman  by  his  daughter, 
Marjorie  Campbell  Ruckman.) 

Fudge 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  y2  cake  Baker's  unsweetened  chocolate,  vanilla  ex- 
tract. Shave  the  chocolate ;  add  milk,  sugar  and  butter.  Cook 
over  gradually  increassing  fire  for  about  20  minutes,  stirring 
constantly  or  until  it  "balls"  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  stove  and  beat  hard  for  3  or  4  minutes;  then 
add  vanilla  and  pour  into  buttered  pans. 

GENERAL  6.  W.  GOETHALS 
Marchpane,  Lubeck  Style 

Blanch  and  skin  1  lb.  of  fresh  sweet  almonds.  Cut  out  all 
discolored  parts,  wash,  dry  with  a  cloth,  grate  as  fine  as  pos- 
sible or  pound  to  a  paste ;  then  put  on  slow  fire  with  1  lb.  sifted 
powdered  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  orange  blossom  water  in  a 
graniteware  saucepan,  and  stir  until  it  no  longer  sticks  to  the 
hand.  Then  pour  at  once  on  board  sprinkled  with  sugar,  roll 
out  to  desired  thickness,  using  a  little  more  sugar  if  required. 

This  paste  can  be  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  or  molded  into  pears, 
apples,  bananas,  etc.,  or  a  large  round  disc  may  be  decorated 
with  rim  of  the  same  material  and  the  center  ornamented  with 
molded  fruits,  the  rim  dented  fancifully  and  inlaid  with  candied 
orange  or  lemon  peel  cut  in  small  squares,  lozenges,  triangles, 


154  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


bars  and  circles.  When  done,  dry  in  a  cool  oven.  The  paste 
must  remain  white  and  soft.  The  fruits  may  be  colored  with 
candy  coloring. 

PAUL  JOSSELYN 

Assistant  Chinese  Secretary,  American  Legation,  Peking,  China 

Soft  Nougat 

Whip  y2  lb.  powdered  sugar  and  whites  of  3  eggs  in  gran- 
ite ware  saucepan  over  hot  fire  to  thick  batter.  Then  add  % 
lb.  blanched  and  chopped  almonds,  1  tablespoon  vanilla  sugar 
and  if  desired,  2  ozs.  candied  orange  peel  chopped.  When  well 
mixed,  spread  out  evenly  on  wax  paper,  in  a  shallow  pan, 
about  1  inch  thick,  lay  wax  paper  on  top,  put  another  pan 
on  top  as  a  weight  and  dry  5  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Then 
cut  up  quickly  or  shape  into  a  horn  of  plenty,  or  basket,  before 
it  hardens. 

W.  A.  BICKERS 

American  Consul  to  Pureto  Plata,  Dominican  Republic 

Cocoanut  Candy 

One  cocoanut  coarsely  chopped,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  %  pt.  of 
water,  1  inch  of  ginger  with  a  little  lemon  rind.  Boil  all 
ingredients  together,  being  careful  not  to  burn,  until  it  threads, 
then  drop  with  a  teaspoon  onto  buttered  plates,  and  allow 
to  cool. 

ALBERT  HALSTEAD 

American  Consul-General  to  Montreal,  Canada 

Chocolate  Loaf  Candy 

Four  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter, 
\y<z  cups  sweet  cream,  1  oz.  of  chocolate  (dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water),  1  tablespoon  glucose  (can  be  omitted).  Place 
over  fire  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  boil.  Do  not  stir  after  it 
boils.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold 
water.  Pour  on  buttered  platter  to  cool.  Do  not  scrape  kettle. 
When  cool  work  into  heap  with  wooden  spoon  or  paddle,  add 
1  tablespoon  vanilla,  stir  until  the  whole  mass  grains.  Cover 
with  damp  cloth  and  let  set  %  hour,  then  with  the  hands 
work  it  until  soft  and  smooth,  add  iy2  cups  nut  meats,  shape 
into  loaf  and  slice. 


THE  ALL  -  AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  155 

GEORGE  ORR 

American  Consul  to  Panama  City,  Panama 

Pralines 

Put  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  y2  cup  of  maple  syrup,  and 
14  cup  of  cream  in  blazer.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and  let 
boil  until  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed  in  cold  water.  Extinguish 
flame,  and  heat  mixture  until  creamy.  Add  1  cup  of  pecan  or 
walnut  meats. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  H.  S.  NEW 

Chairman,  Committee  on  Territories  and  Insular  Possessions 

Cocoanut  Steeples 

Grate  a  small  cocoanut  and  mix  it  with  %  of  a  cup  of  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Then  stir  in  the  white  of  1  egg,  beaten  stiff; 
roll  in  small  balls  and  form  a  peak  on  the  top.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven  till  the  top  of  the  peak  turns  brown. 

HUNTER  SHARP 

American  Consul  to  Edinburgh,  Scotland 

Turkish  Candy 

Two  pounds  of  sugar,  1  lb.  of  glucose,  y2  lb.  almonds  (or 
nuts  of  any  kind)  chopped,  %  cup  water,  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten,  teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil  sugar,  glucose  and  water  to- 
gether until  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  remove  from 
fire  and  add  slowly  the  whites  of  eggs,  nuts  and  vanilla.  Stir 
until  very  thick  and  white.  Pour  into  mold  and  when  cold 
cut  in  slices. 

EDWARD  E.  BRODIE 

American  Minister  to  Bangkok,  Siam 

Allegrette 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  milk,  about  y2  cake 
Baker's  bitter  chocolate.  Cook  sugar  and  milk  together  slowly 
until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Then  beat  until  hard 
enough  to  roll  in  balls  about  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Place 
these  on  a  buttered  platter  and  let  cool.  Steam  chocolate  over 
teakettle  until  soft.  Use  small  fork  for  dipping  fondant  in 
chocolate.  Then  place  each  one  on  oiled  paper.  Drop  y2 
walnut  on  top  of  each  candy  before  chocolate  dries. 


156  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

MAJ.-GENERAL  LEONARD  WOOD 

Governor-General,  Philippine  Islands 

Glazed  Fruit 

The  best  glazing  for  fruits  is  fondant,  but  a  good  glazing  is 
made  as  follows:  Boil  to  hard  ball  (247°),  without  stirring,  2 
cups  of  sugar  in  1  of  water.  Put  each  fruit  or  nut  on  new 
hat  pin  or  knitting  needle,  dip  carefully  into  hot  syrup  and 
place  on  buttered  or  waxed  paper.  For  a  heavy  coating  dip 
a  second  time  when  cold.  Pecans,  walnuts,  Brazil  nuts,  cher- 
ries, raisins,  grapes  may  be  glazed  in  this  way,  also  seedless 
oranges,  peeled  and  carefully  separated  into  sections  without 
breaking  into  the  pulp. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  ROBT.  C.  DAVIS,  U.  S.  Army 

Crystallized  Bananas 

Remove  skins  from  large  ripe  bananas,  cut  into  slives  y±- 
inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  fine  sugar,  lay  out  on  boards  and 
dry  in  the  sun,  each  day,  turning  over  several  times  as  fruit 
dries,  and  dust  with  sugar.  In  a  few  days  it  becomes  a 
delicious  and  delicately  flavored  fruit. 

CONGRESSMAN  F.  W.  MONDELL,  State  of  Wyoming 

Sugarless  Sweets 

One  cup  of  stoned  dates;  add  1  cup  of  raisins  and  1  cup 
of  nuts  (ground).  Run  all  through  food  chopper  and  roll  in 
balls.    Coat  with  chocolate  or  roll  in  cocoanut  if  desired. 

U.  S.  SENATOR  T.  H.  CARAWAY,  State  of  Arkansas 

Caramel  Almonds 

Toss  or  mix  %  lb.  of  blanched,  skinned  and  well  dried 
almonds  in  1  dessert  spoon  of  butter,  until  well  covered,  pour 
into  candy  tin  and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown  in  moderate  oven, 
stirring  frequently.  Then  stir  into  y2  cup  of  sugar  boiled  to 
the  caramel  stage,  until  well  coated,  pour  on  buttered  slab  and 
break  apart  when  cold. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  157 


GLOSSARY 

Anchovy — A  fish  caught  in  the  Mediterranean. 

Anchovy  Essence — Consists  of  pounded  anchovies  cooked  with 
water,  vinegar,  spices,  and  mushrooms. 

Angelica — A  plant,  the  stalks  of  which  are  preserved,  used  for 
decorating. 

Appetizers — Cold  hors  d'ceuvres,  side  dishes,  served  prelimi- 
nary to  the  dinner,  supposed  to  create  an  appetite  for 
something  more  substantial. 

Au,  Aux — To  or  with. 

Bain-marie — A  double  boiler. 

Bisque — A  paste  or  puree. 

Blanch — To  scald. 

Bombe — Ices  in  a  mold,  an  outside  coating  of  one  kind,  a  filling 
of  another. 

Bouchee — Mouthful. 

Bouillon — Beef  broth. 

Brioche — A  bread  made  rich  with  eggs. 

Brochette — A  skewer. 

Caviare — Salted  and  smoked  sturgeon  roe. 

Cutlets — Steaks  of  veal,  lamb,  mutton,  or  pork. 

Entree — A  made  dish  served  as  a  course  or  between  courses. 

Foie-grass — Fat  liver;  especially  the  liver  of  fat  geese. 


158  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

Fondue — Cheese  and  eggs  cooked  together. 

Fondant — Cooked  and  beaten  sugar,  ready  to  flavor  and  mold 
for  centers  of  bonbons. 

Francaise — In  French  style. 

Frappe — Half  frozen. 

Fricassee — Originally  meat  fried  and  served  with  a  sauce. 

Gherkins — Small  cucumbers. 

Giblets — The  neck,  liver,  gizzard,  and  heart  of  poultry  or  game. 

Glace — Glossed  over. 

Hors  d'ceuvres — Side  dishes. 

Italienne — In  Italian  style. 

Jardiniere — Mixed  vegetables. 

Koumiss — Fermented  milk. 

Macedoine — A  mixture  of  several  fruits  or  vegetables. 

Marrons — Chestnuts. 

Mayonnaise — Salad  sauce. 

Meringue — Mixture  of  sugar  and  white  of  egg  beaten  together. 

Mignon — Small. 

Mousse — Moss,  froth,  something  light  and  spongy. 

Mulligatawny — Curry  soup. 

Noir — Black. 

Papillote — Paper. 

Parfait — Perfect. 

Pate— Paste. 

Pilaf — Turkish  dish  of  rice  and  tomatoes. 
Potage — Soup. 

Printaniere  (a  la) — With  young  spring  vegetables. 

Puree — Ingredients  rubbed  through  a  sieve. 

Ragout — A  highly  seasoned  fish  or  meat  dish. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  159 

Rissoles — Something  crisp. 

Riz — Rice. 

Rioux — Butter  and  flour  mixed  and  used  for  thickening. 

Scones — Scotch  name  for  baking  powder  biscuit. 

Sorbet — Frozen  punch. 

Souffle* — A  puff,  something  light  and  fluffy. 

Syllabub — Old  English  name  for  whipped  and  flavored  cream. 


Canapes  are  made  from  white,  graham,  and  brown  bread, 
sliced  very  thin  and  cut  in  various  shapes.  They  may  be 
dipped  in  melted  butter,  toasted  or  fried.  The  slices  may  be 
covered  with  any  of  the  following  mixtures.  Served  hot  or 
cold. 


160  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


VEGETABLES  AS  MEDICINE 

Watercress  is  an  excellent  blood  purifier. 

Lettuce  has  a  soothing  effect  on  the  nerves  and  is  excel- 
lent for  sufferers  from  insomnia. 

Tomatoes  are  good  for  a  torpid  liver,  but  should  be 
avoided  by  gouty  people. 

Spinach  has  great  aperient  qualities,  and  is  far  better  than 
medicine  for  sufferers  from  constipation.  It  is  also  excellent 
for  kidney  troubles. 

Beet  root  is  fattening  and  food  for  people  who  want  to 
put  on  flesh.    So  are  potatoes. 

Parsnips  possess  the  same  virtues  as  sarsparilla. 

Apples,  carrots  and  Brazil  nuts  are  excellent  for  sufferers 
from  constipation. 

Raw  carrots  cure  indigestion.  When  cooked  they  will  cure 
asthma. 

Celery  contains  sulphur  and  helps  to  purify  the  blood. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

SPOON   BREADS 

Economy  is  the  household  mint. — Old  Proverb. 


COL.  GEORGE  HARVEY 

American  Ambassador  to  England 

Delicious  Ginger  Bread 

One  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  egg,  1  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  allspice,  ginger  and  cinnamon, 
y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  raisins  and  y2 
cup  of  walnut  meats  (floured).  Mix  in  order  given.  Bake  in 
medium  oven. 


REAR-ADMIRAL  J.  W.  OMAN,  U.  S.  Navy 

Thin  Ginger  Bread 

One  cup  of  sugar,  generous  y2  cup  of  butter,  %  cup  of 
milk,  \y2  scant  cups  of  flour,  1  scant  teaspoon  of  ginger  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Spread  on  tin  sheets  (very  thin).  Bake  in 
quick  oven  and  cut  in  squares  while  hot. 

J.  G.  EMERY 

Former  National  Commander  of  the  American  Legion 

Ginger  Bread 

One-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  %  cup  of  olive  oil,  y2  cup 
of  molasses,  y2  cup  of  hot  water,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved 
in  water,  1  cup  of  flour,  y2  teaspoon  of  ginger,  y2  teaspoon 
of  cinnamon,  and  1  egg,  beaten  light,  added  last.    Bake  in  a 
very  slow  oven.    Eat  while  warm. 


162  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


ALBERT  B.  FALL 

Secretary  of  the  Interior 

Soft  Ginger  Bread 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  1 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  ginger. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  add  to  the  above 
ingredients,  which  have  been  thoroughly  mixed,  then  add  3 
cups  of  cake  flour.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. 


OOL.  PETER  MURRAY,  U.  S.  Army,  Governor's  Island,  N.  Y. 

French  Ginger  Bread 

Sift  1%  lbs.  of  flour,  y2  lb-  of  rice  flour,  1  oz.  of  baking 
powder  together  6  times.  Put  1  pt.  each  of  honey  (or  molasses) 
and  butter  in  warm  jar  and  keep  warm,  until  butter  is  melted. 
Mince  the  rind  of  2  lemons,  and  mix  with  y2  pt-  of  almond 
paste,  2  ozs.  of  ground  ginger,  y2  teaspoon  ground  nutmeg  and 
pinch  of  ground  clove.  Stir  the  liquid  into  the  flour,  also 
spices,  and  beat  hard  20  minutes.  Bake  in  2  or  3  buttered  pans 
in  moderate  oven.    Cover  with  light  icing  and  cut  when  cool. 

REAR-ADMIRAL  BENSON,  U.  S.  Navy 

Spoon  Bread 

One  cup  of  cornmeal  scalded  with  almost  boiling  hot  water, 
stirring  constantly  add  2  cups  of  milk,  2  eggs,  lump  of  shorten- 
ing and  a  little  yeast  or  baking  powder.  Batter  must  be  thin 
to  be  good.    Bake  in  a  deep  dish.    Serve  hot. 

GOVERNOR  J.  B.  A.  ROBERTSON,  State  of  Oklahoma 

Southern  Spoon  Bread 

Heat  1  pt.  of  fresh  milk,  nearly  to  boiling;  gradually  stir 
in  %  cup  of  cornmeal  and  cook  until  the  consistency  of  mush, 
add  y2  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  light  j  fold  in  the  egg  whites,  beaten 
until  stiff.  Pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  y2  hour. 
Serve  at  once  with  butter  from  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 


THE  ALL  -  AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  163 


MAJOR-GENERAL  M.  M.  PATRICK,  U.  S.  Army 

Chief  of  the  Air  Service,  War  Department 

Virginia  Spoon  Bread 

One  cup  of  white  cornmeal  (water  ground  if  possible),  3^ 
cups  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  1"  tablespoon 
each  of  butter  and  lard,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Melt 
butter  and  lard  together,  put  milk  and  lard  and  butter  with 
eggs ;  put  baking  powder  and  salt  in  cornmeal ;  mix  liquids  and 
meal.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  deep  dish,  40  minutes. 


GOVERNOR  HENRY  J.  ALLEN,  State  of  Kansas 

Spoon  Corn  Bread 

Heat  1  pt.  of  milk  to  the  boiling  point  and  stir  in  ^  pt. 
of  cornmeal  and  !/2  teaspoon  of  salt,  but  do  not  work.  Sep- 
arate the  whites  and  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  stir  yolks  into  batter. 
Add  the  whites  last,  stirring  as  little  as  possible.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  J.  L.  HINES,  U.  S.  Army 

Ft.  Sam  Houston,  Texas 

Virginia  Spoon  Bread 

Heat  y<z  pt.  of  sweet  milk  to  boiling  point,  stir  in  ^  cup 
of  cornmeal,  cook  5  minutes;  then  beat  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  %  remaining  milk  (14  pt.)  into  the  mush,  add  1  beaten 
egg,  beat  vigorously  once  more.  Gradually  beat  in  remaining 
milk.  Put  mixture  into  buttered  dish  and  bake  25  minutes  in 
hot  over.    Serve  at  once. 


CAPT.  RALPH  EARLE,  U.  S.  Atlantic  Fleet 

At  Anchor,  Guantanamo  Bay,  Cuba,  U.  S.  S.  Florida,  Flagship 

Rich  Corn  Bread 

One  cup  of  cornmeal,  1  cup  of  flour,  4  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  *4  cup  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  l1/^  cups  of  milk, 
%  cup  of  butter  and  2  eggs.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  eggs 
well  beaten  with  milk  and  batter  melted ;  bake  in  shallow  pans 
well-greased  in  hot  oven  15  to  20  minutes. 


164  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

GOVERNOR  THOMAS  E.  KILBY,  State  of  Alabama 

Corn  Bread 

Beat  lightly  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  pt.  of  buttermilk  or 
clabber,  1  tablespoon  melted  lard,  add  corn  meal  to  the  con- 
sistency of  batter  bread;  last  thing  add  %  teaspoon  of  soda 
and  white  of  egg,  well  beaten.  Pour  into  hot  pan  (an  iron 
skillet  is  best).  Do  not  permit  batter  to  stand  a  minute  after 
mixing. 


BRIG.-GENERAL  H.  JERVEY 

U.  S.  Army 

Virginia  Batter  Bread 

One  cup  of  corn  meal,  1  tablespoon  of  lard  and  1  teaspoon 
of  salt;  mix  with  2  cups  of  boiling  water;  add  2  eggs  and 
beat  well,  adding  1  cup  of  milk  last.  Bake  in  pudding  dish 
and  serve  in  same,  using  spoon. 


ADMIRAL  A.  GLEAVES 

U.  S.  Navy,  Commandant  First  Naval  District,  Navy  Yard, 

Boston,  Mass. 

Virginia  Corn  Bread 

One  quart  of  white  corn  meal,  1  qt.  of  milk,  3  eggs,  pinch 
of  salt.  Boil  1  pt.  of  milk  and  pour  on  the  meal;  beat  eggs 
separately,  add  the  other  pint  of  milk  and  eggs  to  the  scalded 
meal.  Melt  butter  in  the  baking  dish  and  pour  in  the  batter 
(have  dish  hot  when  batter  is  poured  in).    Bake  20  minutes. 

BRIG.-GENERAL  C.  G.  LONG 

U.  S.  Marine  Corps 

Bannock 

One  cup  of  Baltimore  pearl  meal  scalded  with  2  cups  of 
milk;  when  cool  add  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  when  well  mixed 
add  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth.  Bake  20  minutes 
in  a  deep  pie  plate.    Serve  at  once. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  165 

HERBERT  C.  HOOVER 

Secretary  of  Commerce 

Spoon  Bread 

One  cnp  of  corn  meal  (white  or  yellow),  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  2  cups  of  boiling  water,  1  or  2  eggs,  butter  size  of  walnut, 
and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Put  the  meal  into  sauce  pan  and  pour 
boiling  water  over  it.  Add  the  salt  and  butter  while  cooking. 
Cook  this  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  the 
stove  and  add  (stirring  the  mixture)  the  milk  and  eggs  (which 
should  be  beaten  well).  Bake  in  moderate  oven  30  minutes, 
using  shallow  pans.  The  addition  of  rice,  about  2  tablespoons, 
will  greatly  improve  this  bread. 

CONGRESSMAN  T.  M.  BELL,  State  of  Georgia 

Light  Corn  Bread 

Take  1  gal.  of  corn  meal,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda,  and 
mix  with  enough  hot  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Put  in  a 
vessel  to  rise  (takes  about  7  hours)  and  stand  in  a  warm 
place.  Take  2  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  syrup  and  1  heaping 
teaspoon  of  soda,  mix  well  and  add  to  risen  dough,  which 
will  be  thin.  Put  in  a  greased  covered  pan  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  3  hours,  or  until  done.     This  makes  a  large  loaf. 

CAPT.  W.  M.  CROSE 

Commandant  U.  S.  Naval  District,  Cavite,  Philippine  Islands 

Hasty  Coffee  Cake 

Four  tablespoons  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
milk,  iy2  scant  cups  of  flour,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  egg,  and 
3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  On  top  of  batter,  in  the  baking 
pans,  put  lumps  of  butter,  cinnamon  and  nuts.  Bake  as  other 
coffee  cakes. 

KNOX  ALEXANDER 

American  Consul  to  San  Luis  Potosi,  Mexico 

"Ellen  Maria" 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  2  cups  of 
flour,  y<i  cup  of  shortening,  3  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  2  tea- 


166  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


spoons  of  cloves,  2  teaspoons  of  allspice,  1  teaspoon  of  soda, 
y%  cup  of  currants,  ^2  CUP  °f  raisins,  y2  cup  of  chopped  nut 
meats,  1  tablespoon  of  molasses  and  2  eggs.  Put  the  soda 
in  the  dry  flour,  put  all  ingredients  in  the  mixing  bowl,  and 
beat  hard  3  minutes.  Bake  in  loaf,  layers,  or  muffin  rings. 
This  recipe  makes  a  good  cake,  leaving  out  nuts,  raisins  and 
currants. 


GEORGE  ORR 

American  Consul  to  Panama  City,  Panama 

Yankee  Peach  Cake 

Stir  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt 
with  2  cups  of  flour.  Work  in  %  cup  of  butter.  Add  1  beaten 
egg  to  1  cup  of  milk  and  stir  into  flour.  Butter  pie  tin  and 
pour  in  mixture,  pressing  into  tops  of  dough,  6  peaches,  peeled, 
stoned,  and  cut  in  quarters.  Mix  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon 
and  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  sprinkle  over  the  top.  Bake 
and  serve  with  butter. 


GOVERNOR  P.  P.  BAXTER,  State  of  Maine 

Through  courtesy  of  Mrs.  Susan  Ballou 

Kaffee  Klatch 

Four  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  of  coffee  essence.  Beat  yolks 
of  eggs  with  sugar,  add  flour  and  baking  powder,  coffee 
essence,  and  last,  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  2  round 
tins.  Whip  y2  pt.  of  cream  and  place  between  the  layers 
(unsweetened).  Icing:  White  of  egg  (beaten  stiff),  with  y2 
cup  of  confectioner's  sugar  flavored  with  coffee  essence. 


COMMANDER  M.  K.  METCALF 

Department  of  the  U.  S.  Navy,  General  Board 

Coffee  Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  lard,  1 
tablespoon  of  butter.  Mix  and  take  out  a  scant  V& ;  to  what 
is  left  add  1  slightly  beaten  egg,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  flour, 
2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  pinch  of  salt.    To  what  is 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  167 


reserved  add  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  spread  over  the  top. 
Bake  25  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 


W.  M.  MOONEY 

Chief  Clerk  and  Superintendent  Post  Office,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Blackberry  Gems 

Line  small  gem  pans  with  rich  biscuit  dough;  fill  the 
center  with  blackberries,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Turn  out  with  care;  dust  with  confectioner's 
sugar  and  serve  with  cream. 


W.  K.  WILLIAMS 

Former  Assistant  Secretary  of  War 

Pop  Overs 

Four  eggs,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  pt.  of  flour,  y2  level  teaspoon 
of  salt,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Makes  thin  batter.  Bake 
in  muffin  rings  y2  full,  in  very  hot  oven.  About  20  minutes 
required. 


CONGRESSMAN  J.  W.  FORDNEY,  State  of  Michigan 
Chairman,  Ways  and  Means  Committee 

Graham  Gems 

One  egg,  y2  cup  of  brown  sugar,  3  cups  of  buttermilk,  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  3  teaspoons  of  soda  (scant),  3  cups  of  graham 
flour,  sifted  before  measuring,  and  2  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter.    Bake  in  gem  pans. 


BRIG-GENERAL  W.  S.  GRAVES 

U.  S.  Army,  Camp  Dix,  N.  J. 

Pop  Overs 

Two  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  large  coffee  cup  of  milk,  same 
cup  not  quite  full  of  flour;  beat  eggs  well  together,  add  the 
salt,  then  the  milk,  beat  all  together  with  egg  beater  (never 
use  a  spoon).  Bake  in  cold  gem  pans  in  quick  oven,  but  not 
hot  enough  to  brown  before  pop  overs  have  a  chance  to  rise. 


168  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

FRANK  0.  LOWDEN 
Former  Governor,  known  as  "Illinois'  War  Governor" 

Graham  Muffins 

One  'egg,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  cups  of  milk,  2  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter,  1*4  cups  white  flour,  V/^  cups  of  graham 
flour,  and  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  To  the  beaten  egg, 
add  the  salt  and  milk;  stir  in  the  flour  and  the  butter;  add 
the  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown  (about 
20  minutes). 


COLONEL  FRANK  WHITE 

Treasurer  of  the  United  States 

Note:  Colonel  White's  favorite  Sunday  morning  break- 
fast consists  of  bacon,  fried  apples  and  coffee. 

Date  Muffins 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter  creamed  with  %  cup  of  sugar, 
2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  Beat  thoroughly  together;  add  1  cup  of 
finely  cut  dates.  Bake  in  quick  oven  20  minutes.  Makes  1 
dozen  muffins. 


COL.  F.  W.  PHISTERER 
U.  S.  Army,  Ft.  McPherson,  Georgia 

Sally  Lunn 

Two  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour  and  2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  169 


GEORGE   WASHINGTON'S   FAVORITE   BREAKFAST 

BREAD 

Sent  through  courtesy  of  a  Rear  Admiral  in  the  U.  S.  Navy 

Sally  Lunn 

Two  cups  of  flour,  butter  size  of  egg,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of 
milk,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  a/4  yeast  cake 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Rub  the  butter  in  the  flour 
with  salt  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  beaten  separately,  yeast 
and  milk.  It  should  not  be  a  thin  batter;  some  flour  takes 
more  liquid  than  others.  Leave  out  some  milk  if  necessary. 
Set  to  rise  in  cups,  or  in  loaf  pans,  several  hours,  or  all 
night.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  as  for  rolls. 

Note:  Sally  Lunn  was  George  Washington's  housekeeper 
and  her  name  is  given  to  the  dish. 


170  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


USES  OF  LEMONS 

The  lemon  is  not  sufficiently  appreciated  from  a  hygienic 
standpoint;  for  instance: 

Lemon  juice  removes  stains  from  the  hands. 

A  dash  of  lemon  juice  in  plain  water  is  an  excellent  tooth 
wash ;  it  not  only  removes  the  tartar,  but  sweetens  the  breath. 

Lemon  juice  applications  will  allay  irritation  caused  by  the 
bites  of  insects. 

The  juice  of  a  lemon  taken  in  hot  water  on  awakening  is 
an  excellent  liver  corrective,  and  for  stout  people  is  better  than 
any  "anti-fat"  medicine  ever  invented. 

Glycerine  and  lemon  juice,  half  and  half,  on  a  bit  of 
absorbent  cotton  is  the  best  thing  in  the  world  wherewith  to 
moisten  the  lips  of  a  fever-parched  patient. 

Lemon  juice  and  salt  will  remove  rust  stains. 

For  a  manicure  aid  lemon  juice  is  all  that  is  necessary  for 
loosening  the  cuticle  and  for  brightening  and  cleansing  the 
nails. 

Save  your  lemon  rinds  and  dry  them  for  kindling ;  a  hand- 
ful will  revive  a  dying  fire. 


HELPFUL    HINTS 


COMMON  WAYS  OF  COOKING  FOOD 

Baking  is  cooking  in  confined  heat  in  the  oven.  Examples: 
Bread,  cake,  meat.  This  method  when  applied  to  meat  is 
eommonly  called  roasting.  Before  baking,  see  that  the 
oven  is  clean  and  heated  to  the  desired  temperature. 

Boiling  is  cooking  by  immersion  in  water  at  212°.  F.  Exam- 
ples:   Potatoes,  cabbage,  macaroni. 

Braising  is  a  combination  of  stewing  on  the  top  of  the  range, 
and  baking  in  the  oven,  with  or  without  vegetables.  Exam- 
ples:   Tough  meats,  fowl,  whole  liver. 

Broiling  or  Grilling  is  cooking  over  or  under  direct  heat,  as 
over  glowing  coals  or  under  a  gas  flame.  Examples: 
Steaks,  chops. 

Fricasseeing  is  commonly  a  combination  of  stewing  and  saut6- 
ing.    Examples:    Fowl,  forequarter  of  lamb  or  veal. 

Frying  is  cooking  by  immersion  in  hot,  deep  fat.  Examples: 
Doughnuts,  croquettes. 

Pan-baking  or  Pan-broiling  is  cooking  in  a  lightly  greased  or 
ungreased  hot  frying  pan  or  griddle.  Examples:  Steak, 
English  muffins,  griddle  cakes. 

Pot  Roasting  is  cooking  in  an  iron  kettle  or  earthen  pot  in  a 
small  amount  of  water,  after  meat  has  been  quickly 
browned  in  a  small  amount  of  fat  in  the  frying  pan  or 
kettle.  Cook  slowly  until  very  tender  with  or  without 
vegetables. 


172  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


Roasting  is  cooking  before  an  open  fire.  This  method  is  seldom 
used  in  small  households,  although  the  baking  of  meats  is 
commonly  called  roasting. 

Sauteing  is  cooking  in  a  small  amount  of  fat  in  a  shallow  pan 
on  top  of  range.  Examples:  Sliced  fish,  meat,  potatoes, 
eggs. 

Simmering  is  cooking  in  liquid  at  185°  F.  The  bubbles  should 
always  be  below  the  surface.  Examples:  Ham,  corned 
beef,  soups. 

Steaming.  Dry  Steaming  is  cooking  by  heat  or  steam,  as  in 
double  boiler  or  tin,  over  or  surrounded  by  boiling  water. 
Examples:    Rice,  brown  bread. 

Moist  Steaming  is  cooking  by  direct  contact  with  steam,  as  in 
a  steamer  or  colander,  over  boiling  water,  closely  covered. 
Examples:    Fowl,  puddings,  dumplings. 

Stewing  is  cooking  slowly  in  a  small  amount  of  water  (about 
160°  F.)  until  food  is  very  tender.  Examples:  Beef, 
lamb,  vegetables. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


173 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


1  teaspoon =60  drops 

3  teaspoons =1  tablespoon 

16  tablespoons =  1  cup 

1  cup =■  %  pint 

2  pints  =1  quart 

Butter,  2  tablespoons  solidly  packed =1  ounce 

Butter,  2  cups  solidly  packed =1  pound 

Chocolate,  1  square =1  ounce 

Coffee,  4!/3  cups =  1  pound 

Eggs,  9  in  shells =1  pound 

English  Walnuts,  chopped,  5  cups =1  pound 

Flour,  4  tablespoons =1  ounce 

Flour,  Pastry,  4  cups =1  pound 

Flour,  Bread,  4  cups =1  pound 

Flour,  Entire  Wheat,  3%  cups =1  pound 

Flour,  Graham,  4%  cups =1  pound 

Meat,  2  cups  finely  chopped =1  pound 

Oatmeal,  2%  cups =1  pound 

Oats,  Rolled,  5  cups =1  pound 

Rice,  1%  cups  =1  pound 

Rye  Meal,  4^  cups =1  pound 

Sugar,  Brown,  2%  cups =1  pound 

Sugar,  Confectioner's,  3%  cups =1  pound 

Sugar,  Granulated,  2  cups =1  pound 

Sugar,  Powdered,  2%  cups   =1  pound 

Sugar,  or  Salt,  2  tablespoons =-1  ounce 


174  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


WHEN  COOKING  OYSTERS 

Never  salt  soups  or  stews  until  just  before  removing 
from  the  fire. 

In  frying  oysters  a  little  baking  powder  added  to  the 
cracker  crumbs  will  greatly  improve  them. 

Escalloped  oysters  retain  their  flavor  better  if  covered 
while  cooking. 

Half  the  liquor,  heated,  or  hot  milk,  may  be  poured  over 
escalloped  oysters  when  half  baked. 

It  is  always  better  to  handle  oysters  with  a  fork,  as  con- 
tact with  the  hands  may  make  them  tough. 


DIGESTIBLE  CABBAGE 

Cabbage  is  made  digestible  by  first  slicing  and  then  putting 
in  boiling  water  with  a  pinch  of  soda  and  some  salt,  and  boil- 
ing just  15  minutes. 


PRUNE  DESSERT 

Soak  prunes  over  night.  Boil  slowly  until  very  tender. 
Sweeten  to  taste.  When  they  have  cooled  in  their  own  liquor, 
pierce  one  side  with  a  pointed  knife,  remove  the  stone  and 
fill  with  chopped  nuts  and  raisins,  mixed.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 


TENDER  PINEAPPLES 

The  toughness  of  pineapples  is  almost  entirely  eliminated 
by  slicing  the  fruit  up  and  down,  from  stem  to  blossom  end, 
instead  of  through  the  core  as  is  usually  done.  Thrust  a  fork 
into  the  blossom  end  to  hold  the  apple  steady  and  slice  until 
you  come  to  the  hard,  pithy  core,  which  can  then  be  discarded. 
This  trick  was  taught  me  by  an  old  pineapple  grower  and 
makes  all  the  difference  in  the  world  in  the  tenderness  of  this 
fruit,  which  is  usually  hard  and  chippy  when  sliced  with 
instead  of  against  the  grain. 


THE  AU- AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  175 


POULTRY 

For  market,  dry  picking  is  the  best  way — that  is,  pulling 
out  the  feathers  immediately  after  killing,  while  the  poultry 
is  still  warm,  but  for  home  consumption,  the  scalding  method 
is  quicker  and  easier.  After  killing  dip  in  scalding  hot  water 
and  move  about  for  a  few  minutes,  then  pick  as  quickly  as 
possible.  Ducks  should  be  scalded  a  little  longer  and  then 
wrapped  in  canvas  or  any  close  cloth,  to  steam  about  5  to  10 
minutes,  after  which  the  feathers  can  be  easily  pulled.  The 
hairs  should  be  singed  off  by  holding  and  turning  the  poultry 
in  the  flames  of  a  lighted  twist  of  paper,  or  some  burning 
alcohol.  Wash  thoroughly  and  dry,  and  then  lay  on  several 
folds  of  paper,  and  clean  at  once.  The  quicker  poultry  is 
cleaned,  the  better,  but  it  is  best  not  to  cook  it  until  24  hours 
after  killing. 

After  singeing,  and  before  drawing,  pull  out  all  pin 
feathers,  then  clut  off  the  head,  and  next  cut  through  the  skin 
around  each  leg,  about  1%  inches  below  the  first  leg,  being 
careful  not  to  cut  tendons.  Place  the  leg  with  the  cut  over  the 
edge  of  a  table,  press  downward  to  snap  the  bone,  then  take 
the  foot  in  the  right  hand,  holding  the  bird  firmly  in  the  left 
hand,  and  pull  off  the  foot,  and  with  it  the  tendons.  Make  a 
lengthwise  cut  through  the  skin  just  below  the  breast  bone, 
large  enough  to  admit  the  hand,  and  remove  the  entrails  entire, 
by  first  carefully  loosening  them  all  around,  and  then  bringing 
the  hand  forward,  grasping  the  entrails  firmly,  and  with  one 
pull  drawing  them  out.  The  lungs  and  kidneys,  on  either  side 
of  the  backbone,  should  next  be  removed,  and  then  the  wind- 
pipe and  crop,  close  to  the  skin  of  the  breast,  by  inserting  two 
fingers  under  the  neck  skin.  Draw  down  the  skin  and  cut  the 
neck  off  close  to  the  body,  leaving  on  enough  skin  to  close  up 
the  opening  after  the  crop  is  partly  filled  with  a  little  dressing. 
The  giblets  (gizzard,  heart  and  liver)  should  next  be  carefully 
separated  from  the  entrails,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  gall 
bag  attached  to  the  liver,  the  bile  from  which  would  impart 
an  extremely  bitter  flavor  to  any  parts  it  came  in  contact  with. 
Then  wash  the  bird  thoroughly  in  and  outside,  rub  with  salt, 
and  let  hang  in  a  cool  place  over  night. 


176  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


CANNING  PIE  PLANT 

Pick  when  it  is  long  and  good,  cut  up  and  put  in  glass 
fruit  cans,  press  down,  cover  with  cold  water,  seal  and  put 
away.  It  will  keep  fresh  until  the  new  crop  comes.  In  sections 
where  the  fruit  is  scarce,  it  can  be  easily  raised,  and  is  easily 
kept  as  described. 


PICNIC  SANDWICHES 

Bake  the  bread  in  quart  cans  and  press  the  chopped  meat 
or  chicken  in  cans  of  the  same  size.  When  both  are  cold  put 
very  thin  slices  of  meat  between  two  buttered  slices  of  the 
bread.  If  your  bread  and  meat  are  good,  you  will  be  proud 
of  your  sandwiches. 


WHEN  BAKING 

If  a  handful  of  salt  is  put  on  bottom  of  oven  under  pans 
when  baking  ginger-bread  or  any  cake  easily  burned,  it  will 
prevent  burning. 

Putting  a  pinch  of  salt  in  the  coffee  improves  the  flavor. 


TO  BOIL  VEGETABLES 

When  cooking  lima  beans,  rice,  etc.,  it  is  very  provoking 
to  have  them  foam  and  sputter  from  the  kettle  onto  one's 
clean  stove.  Drop  into  the  kettle  a  small  lump  of  butter  and 
there  will  be  no  "boiling  over." 


OLIVE  OIL  IN  BAKED  BEANS 

Use  5  full  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  to  1  qt.  of  dry  beans. 
They  are  delicious  and  more  easily  digested  than  when  pork 
is  used. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  177 

OATMEAL  PIE  CRUST 

Scald  2  parts  of  fine  oatmeal  with  1  part  of  of  hot  water; 
mix  well  and  roll  thin.  As  this  bakes  very  quickly,  fruit  which 
requires  much  cooking  must  be  cooked  first  before  making  the 
pies.  This  crust  is  very  tender,  possessing  all  the  desirable 
qualities  of  shortened  pie  crusts  without  their  injurious  effects. 


SAVE  DRY  BREAD 

If  your  bread  becomes  dry,  do  not  throw  it  away;  it  is 
a  part  of  Darby's  hard  earnings.  Dip  the  dry  loaf  quickly 
into  water,  put  in  pan,  place  in  oven  and  leave  until  crust  is 
dry.  The  steam  from  the  external  moisture  will  enter  the  loaf, 
leaving  it  fresh  as  when  newly-baked. 


TO  KEEP  TINS  PROM  RUSTDNG 

Tin  vessels  used  in  water  often  rust.  This  can  be  pre- 
vented by  greasing  well  and  heating  in  oven.  They  will  not 
rust  then,  no  matter  how  much  used  in  water.  Care  should 
be  taken  not  to  burn  the  vessel. 


SEASONING  A  FOWL 

To  improve  the  flavor  of  fowl,  when  seasoning  it,  add 
ginger  to  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  rub  this  into  flesh  well. 
For  a  change,  try  putting  an  onion  and  an  apple  in  ducks  in 
place  of  the  usual  bread-crumb  dressing. 


KEEPDNG  POTATOES  DN  WINTER 

To  keep  sweet  potatoes  through  the  winter  perfectly,  line 
a  barrel  with  warm  dry  newspapers,  side  and  bottom,  then 
wrap  each  potato  in  paper  and  pack  into  it,  till  full,  cover  well 
and  keep  in  warm,  dry  kitchen  or  any  warm,  dry  room.  A 
smaller  quantity  may  be  packed  in  a  box  in  the  same  way,  and 


178  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


kept  in  warm,  dry  atmosphere.  To  keep  Irish  potatoes  in  the 
cellar,  sprinkle  air-slacked  lime  among  them ;  it  seems  to  keep 
them  dry  and  healthy.  (As  they  are  sorted,  sprinkle  a  little 
in  every  layer.) 


VINEGAR  IN  DOUGHNUTS 

For  doughnuts  made  with  sour  milk  or  cream,  add  a  gen- 
erous half-teaspoonful  of  vinegar  to  the  batter  before  adding 
the  full  amount  of  flour. 


BOILED  LEMONADE 

In  making  lemonade,  boil  the  desired  quantity  of  sugar 
and  lemon  juice  together,  cool  and  add  as  much  cold  water  as 
needed  —  a  great  improvement  on  the  old  way. 


SUBSTITUTES  FOR  ALCOHOL  IN  MINCE  PEE 

«, 

Instead  of  cider  and  other  alcoholic  liquors,  use  fruit  juices 
for  mince  pies.  The  juice  left  from  canning  strawberries,  sour 
Cherries,  plums,  etc.,  if  sweetened,  boiled  down  and  canned, 
makes  a  rich,  delicious  moistening  for  mince  meat.  If  raisins 
and  suet  in  plenty  are  added  to  the  mixture,  it  will  be  rich 
enough  to  please  the  most  fastidious  appetite. 


A  COOKING  HINT 

Turn  the  colander  upside  down  over  the  fish  or  meat 
sauteing  in  an  iron  spider;  the  small  holes  allow  the  steam 
to  escape  and  still  prevent  the  grease  from  spattering. 


BAKING  DAY 

After  taking  bread  from  the  oven,  do  not  wrap  tightly  in 
cloth  as  many  do ;  but  rub  the  top  of  loaves  with  a  little  lard 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  179 


or  butter,  tip  on  edge  on  your  kneading  board  so  that  all 
possible  crust  is  exposed  to  the  air  and  if  possible  place  out- 
doors or  in  the  wind  to  cool  quickly  a  few  minutes,  then 
remove  to  convenient  place  and  let  stand  until  thoroughly 
cold  before  putting  away  in  box  or  can,  and  you  will  have 
delicious,  tender  crust. 


PREVENTS  SOGGY  PIE-CRUST 

Pie-crust  will  not  be  soggy  if  brushed  over  with  the  white 
of  an  egg  before  the  fruit  is  put  in. 


CARE  OF  WOODEN  BOWLS 

To  prevent  wooden  bowls  from  splitting,  take  them  when 
new,  before  they  have  been  touched  with  water,  applying  boil- 
ing hot  linseed  oil  over  the  outside  and  top  edge,  all  that  will 
penetrate. 


FRIED  SQUASH 

Cut  a  fine-grained,  dry,  sweet  squash  into  thin  slices,  pare 
and  fry  in  plenty  of  butter  and  season  well.  This  dish  will 
be  found  an  excellent  substitute  for  sweet  potatoes. 


TO  SAVE  PLANTS 

To  prevent  bugs  from  eating  your  cucumber  vines,  plant 
one  stalk  of  garlic  in  each  cucumber  hill;  nothing  will  then 
bother  the  plant. 


TESTING  FLOUR 

There  are  several  methods  of  testing  flour,  which  should 
be  known  to  every  purchaser.  If  flour  is  white  with  a  yellow- 
ish straw  tinge,  it  is  good,  while  if  it  has  a  bluish  cast,  or  has 


180  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


black  specks  in  it,  it  is  inferior. 

Wet  and  knead  a  little  of  it  between  the  fingers;  if  it 
works  soft  and  sticky,  it  is  poor ;  if  elastic  and  firm,  it  is  good. 
If  a  little  flour  is  thrown  against  a  dry,  smooth  surface  and  it 
falls  like  powder,  it  is  not  of  the  best  quality.  If  flour  squeezed 
in  the  hand  retains  the  shape  given  it  when  released,  it  is  of 
good  quality. 


USES  OF  BUTTERMILK 

Should  you  be  so  unfortunate  as  to  be  poisoned  by  poison 
ivy,  bathe  the  affected  parts  in  buttermilk  every  10  or  15 
minutes  until  the  poison  is  counteracted.  Should  the  case  be 
a  severe  one,  poultice  the  blisters  with  bread  and  buttermilk 
poultice.  It  will  give  relief  very  soon  and  will  cure  the  most 
severe  cases. 

Buttermilk  will  remove  mildew  from  cloth,  white  or  col- 
ored. Soak  the  garment  over  night,  then  lay  it  on  the  grass 
in  the  sunlight.  If  the  stain  is  set,  soak  the  cloth  for  two 
or  three  days  and  lay  it  in  the  sun. 

Buttermilk  is  excellent  for  freshening  salt  pork  for  frying. 
Slice  the  pork  and  soak  over  night,  or  set  on  stove  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  dip  in  flour  and  fry. 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  181 

TIME  TABLE  FOR  COOKING 

Baking 

Beans,  Boston  Baked 8  hours 

Biscuits,  Baking  Powder  (according  to  size) 12-15  minutes 

Raised  (acording  to  size) 12-20  minutes 

Bread  (10-cent  loaf) 50  minutes 

Breads,  Baking  Powder  Muffins 

(according  to  size) 18-30  minutes 

Corn  Bread  (shallow  pan) 15-20  minutes 

Gingerbread  (shallow  pan)    25  minutes 

Popovers  (according  to  size) 25-30  minutes 

Yeast  Muffins  (according  to  size) 20-30  minutes 

Cake,  Fruit  1V4-2  hours 

Layer 15-20  minutes 

Loaf  (shallow  pan) 30  minutes 

Sponge  (deep  pan)    40  minutes 

Cookies  and  Wafers  6-15  minutes 

Cup  Custards 25  minutes 

Fish,  whole,  4  pounds 1  hour 

Fillets,  or  whole,  small 20-30  minutes 

Meats,  Fillet  of  Beef  (medium) 45-60  minutes 

Rump  of  Beef  (medium)  per  pound 17  minutes 

Sirloin  or  Rib  of  Beef  (medium)  per  pound. .  .15  minutes 

Chicken,  per  pound 18  minutes 

Duck,  Domestic 1  to  l1/^  hours 

Duck,  Wild 15-20  minutes 

Goose,  Domestic,  per  pound 20  minutes 

Leg  of  Lamb,  per  pound 18  minutes 

Pork  Chops 30  minutes 

Loin  of  Pork,  per  pound 22  minutes 

Turkey,  per  pound 20  minutes 

Loin  of  Veal,  per  pound , 22  minutes 

Pies 35-45  minutes 

Rice  or  Tapioca  Pudding,  Cooked 45  minutes 

Rice  or  Tapioca  Pudding,  Uncooked 2y2-Sy2  hours 


182  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

Boiling 

Cereals : 

Corn  Meal    2  hours 

Hominy 2-3  hours 

Macaroni 20-30  minutes 

Oatmeal 4  hours 

Rice    20-30  minutes 

Rolled  Oats   Vi  hour 

Spaghetti   20  minutes 

Granulated  or  Rolled  Wheat %  hour 

Eggs: 

Soft-cooked   3-5  minutes 

Hard-cooked 20  minutes 

Fish: 

Bass,  per  pound 12  minutes 

Bluefish,  per  pound 12  minutes 

Cod,  per  pound 6  minutes 

Halibut,  per  pound 12  minutes 

Lobster,  whole 20  minutes 

Salmon,  per  pound 12  minutes 

Small  fish    6-10  minutes 

Meats : 

Corned  Beef   3-4  hours 

Fresh  Beef 3  hours 

Fowl,  per  pound 30  minutes 

Ham,  per  pound 25  minutes 

Mutton  (leg),  per  pound 25  minutes 

Corned  Tongue  3%  hours 

Fresh  Tongue    , 2^  hours 

Vegetables : 

Artichokes 30-45  minutes 

Asparagus    20-30  minutes 

Dried  Beans   3-4  hours 

Lima  and  other  Shell  Beans 1-1^4  hours 

String  Beans 1-2  hours 

Beets,  old 2-4  hours 

Beets,  young 45  minutes 

Brussels  Sprouts 20  minutes 

Cabbage   20-30  minutes 

Cauliflower 25  minutes 

Green  Corn 10  minutes 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  183 


Onions 1-1%  hours 

Oyster  Plant  (whole 45  minutes 

Parsnips  45-60  minutes 

Peas,  Fresh 20-60  minutes 

Peas,  Dried 3  hours 

Potatoes,  White 20-30  minutes 

Potatoes,  Sweet 20-25  minutes 

Spinach 25-30  minutes 

Tomatoes  (stewed)  20-30  minutes 

Turnips,  Yellow l%-2  hours 

Turnips,  White 1-1%  hours 


Broiling 

Bacon  and  Ham,  sliced  thin 4  minutes 

Chicken,  Spring 20  minutes 

Chops,  Lamb  or  Mutton 6-10  minutes 

Fish,  slices,  Cod,  Halibut,  Salmon,  Swordfish ....  12-15  minutes 

Fish,  whole  small,  Smelt,  Trout 8-10  minutes 

Fish,  whole  split,  Bluefish,  Scrod,  Shad, 

Whitefish   18-22  minutes 

Oysters  8  minutes 

Steak,  1-inch  thick  (medium) 10-12  minutes 

Squab 6  minutes 

Tripe  and  Liver 3-4  minutes 


Frying 

Chops  or  Cutlets,  Breaded 5-8  minutes 

Croquettes  and  Fishballs 4  minutes 

Doughnuts,  Drop  Cakes,  Fritters,  Muffins 3-5  minutes 

Fish,  rolled  fillets  and  slices 5-7  minutes 

Fish,  whole  small,  smelt,  Trout,  Whitebait 2-7  minutes 

Potatoes,  Straws,  Chips 3-4  minutes 

Potatoes,  French  Fried 6-8  minutes 


184  THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 

TEMPERATURE  TABLE 

Fahrenheit 

Freezing  point   32° 

Lukewarm  Water  or  Milk,  not  over 98° 

Albumen  begins  to  coagulate 134° 

Milk,  Pasteurized,  keep  for  y2  hour  at 145° 

Simmering  point 185° 

Boiling  point,  Water  (sea  level) 212° 

Boiling  point,  Milk  (sea  level) 214° 

Milk,  scalded  in  double  boiler 196° 

Baking,  Apples   300° 

Baking,  Bananas 400° 

Baking,  Biscuit  (yeast)    425° 

Baking,  Loaf  Bread 400° 

Baking,  Muffins 380° 

Baking,  Popovers 450° 

Baking,  Cake :  Cookies 400° 

Baking,  Cake :  Gingerbread 375° 

Baking,  Cake :  Fruit  and  Pound 300° 

Baking,  Cake :  Layer 380° 

Baking,  Cake :  Plain  (shallow  pan)   375° 

Baking,  Cake :  Sponge  (shallow  pan)  350° 

Baking,  Meats:  Beef  and  Mutton,  for  15  minutes. . .  450° 

Then  reduce  to 350° 

Baking,  Meats:  Chicken  and  Turkey,  for  %  hour. . .  400° 

Then  reduce  to 300° 

Baking,  Meats:  Goose  and  Lamb,  for  y2  hour 400° 

Then  reduce  to 300° 

Baking,  Meats :  Pork  and  Veal,  for  y2  hour 350° 

Then  reduce  to 260° 

Baking,  Pastry:  Tart  or  Patty  Shells 450° 

Baking,  Potatoes   450° 

Frying :  Breaded  Chops,  Oysters 380° 

Frying :  Croquettes,  Fishballs 390° 

Frying :  Doughnuts,  Fritters   360°-370° 

Frying :  Potatoes,  French  Fried 380° 

Frying :  Potato  Chips  or  Straws 400° 

Fruit  Jelly 222° 

Sugar  and  Water  Sirup,  large  thread 217° 

Sugar  and  Water  Sirup,  feather 232° 

Sugar  and  Water  Sirup,  soft  ball 240° 

Sugar  and  Water  Sirup,  hard  ball 250° 

Sugar  and  Water  Sirup,  for  glaced  fruits  and  nuts  310° 


THE  ALL-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK  185 


Sugar  and  Water  Sirup,  for  spun  sugar 300° 

Sugar  and  Water  Sirup,  caramel 350° 

A  very  hot  oven  450°-550° 

A  hot  oven  400°-450° 

A  moderate  oven 350°-400° 

A  slow  oven   250°-350° 

To  test  fat  without  a  thermometer,  drop  a  bit  of  white  bread 
into  hot  fat ;  it  should  brown  in 
60  seconds  for  uncooked  mixtures  (Doughnuts)  Fritters, 

etc.) ; 
40  seconds  for  cooked    mixtures    (Croquettes,    Fishballs, 

etc.) ; 
20  seconds  for  Chops,  French  Fried  Potatoes,  etc. 


REAR  ADMIRAL  WM.  S.  SIMS 

President  of  Naval  War  College,  Newport,  R.  I. 

Irish  Stew 


"Dear  Madame: 

"Referring  to  your  letter  of  August  1st,  which  reached  me 
but  a  day  or  so  ago,  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  I  am  not  able  to 
comply  with  your  request  to  furnish  you  my  favoriate  recipe, 
because  I  pay  so  little  attention  to  the  question  of  food  that 
I  eat  what  comes  to  me  and  ask  no  questions. 

"If  there  is  any  one  dish  that  I  would  specially  desire 
above  all  others,  it  would  be  an  Irish  stew." 


LEGATION  OF  THE 
UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 

Berne,  Switzerland 

March  7,  1922. 

Dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

In  reply  to  your  letter  of  January  27th,  I  beg 
to  say  that  while  Mrs.  Grew  and  I  have  no  recipe 
available  for  your  cook  book,  we  shall  be  glad  to 
be  numbered  among  the  "100%  Americans"  and 
to  be  credited  with  some  recipe  which  you  may 
furnish. 

Respectfully  yours, 


J.  C.  Grew. 
American  Minister. 


Consomme 

Eight  lbs.  of  beef,  2  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal,  1  small  fowl, 
*/4  cup  of  carrot,  %  cup  of  turnip,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  sprig 
of  majoram,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  1  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  of  parsley, 
and  6  qts.  of  cold  water.  Simmer  beef,  fowl  and  veal  in  water 
4  hours;  add  vegetables,  salt,  and  herbs  tied  in  a  bag;  cook 
slowly  1  hour.    Strain,  cool,  remove  fat,  and  serve. 

Note :  Consomme  is  the  foundation  for  all  clear  soups, 
each  soup  taking  its  name  from  the  garnishing  used. 


AMERICAN  CONSULATE 
Dairen,  Manchuria 

March  3,  1922. 

My  dear  Mrs.  Brebner: 

I  have  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  let- 
ter of  January  12,  and  hasten  to  send  a  recipe 
of  Mrs.  Kirjassoff' s,  which  is  one  of  my  favorites. 

Chicken  Pilau 

This  is  an  Indian  dish,  often  mentioned  in 
Thackeray's  novels  (Thackeray  was  born  in  Cal- 
cutta), which  is  very  popular  with  all  Americans 
and  Europeans  who  visit  India. 

I  trust  that  the  book  you  contemplate  will 
have  great  success.  My  wife  and  I  thank  you  for 
this  opportunity  to  have  even  a  small  share 
therein. 

Very  sincerely  yours, 

Max  D.  Kirjassoff. 

Chicken  Pilau 

One  medium  sized  chicken,  y±  cup  concentrated  pan  gravy, 
1^  cups  rice,  5  cloves,  1  stick  cinnamon,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
y2  cup  seedless  raisins  (boiled  for  5  minutes  and  with  water 
drained  off),  ^  cup  almonds  (blanched  and  browned),  1  onion 
cut  in  strips  and  fried  in  butter  until  crisp  and  brown,  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Bake  the  chicken  until  tender,  preserving  the 
gravy.  Boil  rice  in  salted  water  together  with  the  cloves  and 
the  stick  of  cinnamon.  When  half  cooked,  remove  spices,  drain 
off  water,  and  complete  cooking  by  steaming.  "When  finished 
the  rice  must  be  dry  with  each  kernel  separate.  Mix  butter 
with  the  rice,  together  with  the  pan  gravy  and  raisins.  Make 
a  mound  of  the  rice  in  the  center  of  a  platter.  Sprinkle  with 
almonds  and  the  fried  onion  and  garnish  with  the  hard-boiled 
eggs  cut  in  halves.  Cut  the  chicken  for  serving  and  arrange 
the  pieces  around  the  mound  of  rice. 

This  is  a  most  delicious  dish,  and  the  rice  prepared  in 
this  way  has  a  very  rich,  exotic  flavor. 


MAJOR  GENERAL  J.  A.  LEJEUNE 

Commandant  U.   S.  Marine  Corps 

"Pain  Perdue"  (Lost  Bread) 

"This  is  a  favorite  dish  in  Louisiana  where  Gen.  Lejeune 
was  born  and  reared." — Mrs.  J.  A.  Lejeune. 

One  loaf  of  bread  (a  day  or  two  old),  and  in  slices  *4  inch 
thick,  3  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  stirred  together,  and 
1  or  2  tablespoons  of  lard.  Have  the  lard  very  hot ;  dip  slices 
of  bread  in  the  egg  mixture  and  fry  brown  on  each  side. 


WILLIAM  HOWARD  TAFT 

Chief  Justice,  Supreme  Court,  former  President  of  the 
United  States 

Rolled  Chops 

Cut  egg  plant  into  rounds,  roll  them  in  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry.  Take  loin  chops,  cut  thick,  and  roll  them 
into  rounds,  putting  a  tooth  pick  into  them.  Broil  them  and 
put  them  on  the  egg  plant  and  pour  truffle  sauce  over  them. 
(See  sauces.) 


1923  IS  COMING 

This  years'  book  of  1922  is  closed  and  sealed  at  last 
Nor  would  I  alter  what  is  past. 
My  work,  my  pleasures,  thoughts  and  acts, 
Are  all  on  record  as  plain  facts. 
But  here  before  me  pure  and  white, 
Are  pages  for  recipes  of  1923  to  write. 
More  recipes  from  these  same  donors  will  I  borrow, 
And  start  the  "All- American  Cook  Book"  of  tomorrow. 

— G.  S.  B. 


The  End 


UNIVERSfTY  OF  ILLINOIS-URBANA 


