This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


THE  MAC  MILL  AN  COMPANY 

mw  VOftK  -   BOSTON  ^  CHICAGO  >  DALLAl 

ATLANTA    •  tAX  r«A(fCttOO 

MACMILLAN  k  CO..  Loijted 

LOKDOM    «   AOITBAY    ^  CAlCUTTA 
IC£L]lOt?fti4ft 

THE  MACMILLAN  CO,  OF  CANADA^  Liu, 

TOIONTO 


f 

ii 

^ 

i 

i 

r 

1 

1 

i 

f 

(_ilU 

\^ 

I 

Yf          f 

r 

■■p^^ 

r 

1 

1 

1 

r-^ 

I 


Plate  L — Diisni^txl  bouaee,  in  plastur  aud  ihiuMt^^  adnptod  for  country  hninfa. 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


OF  THB 


COMPILED  BY 

MARTHA  VAN  RENSSELAER 
FLORA  ROSE        HELEN  CANON 

DEPARTMENT  OP  HOME  ECONOMICS,  NEW  YORK  COLLEGE 
OF  AQBICULTURE  AT  CORNELL  UNIVERSITY 


N^m  fork 
THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

1919 


AU  rightt  reterxed 


COPTRIQBT,    1919 

bt  the  macmillan  company 

Set  up  and  electrotyped.    Published  February.  1919 


STATEMENT  BY  THE  EDITOR 


Herein  is  brought  together  a  collection  of  precepts  and  ad- 
vice on  the  setting  up  and  management  of  a  home.  The  book 
is  written  and  compiled  primarily  for  those  women  who  are 
managing  households,  not  for  those  who  are  teaching  or  who 
are  students  in  the  class-room.  It  has  been  the  purpose  to 
bring  together  from  many  reliable  sources  the  guiding  rules 
to  be  followed  in  making  the  home  a  place  where  the  family 
can  live  a  thrifty  and  joyous  life.  It  is  compiled  by  those 
who  understand  the  subject  and  the  situation. 

Chapters  on  hygiene  and  sanitation  were  prepared  by  the 
authors,  but  space  would  not  allow  of  their  inclusion.  This 
is  a  source  of  much  regret,  but  the  omission  allowed  a  fuller 
treatment  to  be  retained  in  the  remaining  chapters. 

The  book  is  intended  primarily  for  rural  conditions.  The 
country'  home  should  receive  as  careful  and  considerate  atten- 
tion as  the  farm  itself.  The  home  is  inseparable  from  the  farm. 
Yet,  as  the  principles  and  practices  of  home-making  are  the 
same  in  country  and  town,  the  book  should  actually  meet  the 
needs  of  a  wide  range  of  people. 

The  Editor  is  glad  to  add  a  book  in  his  series  on  the  work 
and  welfare  of  women,  and  he  hopes  it  will  not  be  the  last. 
The  woman's  work  and  the  man's  work  together  make  the 
welfare  of  any  people  secure. 

L.  H.  BAILEY. 


CONTENTS 

PART  I 
THE  HOUSE  AND  ITS  FURNISHINGS 

CHAPTER  I 

PAGB 

The  Modern  House 1 

Arrangement  of  the  house                        2 

The  farmhouse 7 

Farmhouse  pl&nnihg     ........  8 

Exterior  design 21 

Cost  of  building  .  .         .26 

Suggestions  for  making  alterations 27 

CHAPTER  n 

Home  Furnishing 29 

Structural  consideration  of  rooms  ......  30 

Color 45 

Pattern .51 

Selection  of  furnishings  .         .         .54 

Furniture 78 

Arrangement  of  furnishings   .......  92 

Character  of  rooms  expressed  by  furnishings   .         .         ...  95 

CHAPTER  III 

Pl*ANNING  THE  HOME  KiTCHEN 100 

Use  of  the  kitchen         ........  100 

Exposure 102 

Size 103 

Doors 103 

Windows 104 

Arrangement  of  equipment 105 

Discussion  of  plans 110 

vii 


viii  CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Pantries  and  closets 112 

Interior  finish 118 

PART  II 
HOUSEHOLD  MANAGEMENT 

CHAPTER  IV 

Care  op  the  House 121 

Cellar 121 

Kitchen 122 

Living-room  and  dining-room  .123 

Sleeping-rooms 123 

Bathroom 123 

Suggestions  for  sweeping  and  dusting 124 

Repair  kit 124 

Some  special  directions  for  cleaning 125 

CHAPTER  V 

Household  Measxtrements  and  their  Use          ....  129 

Measurements  for  commodities      ......  129 

Temperature        .........  131 

Time 138 

Measuring  gas      .........  143 

Measuring  electricity    .  .147 

Measuring  water. 151 

Density  of  liquids 153 

Kitchen  measures 156 

CHAPTER  VI 

Household  Records 175 

How  to  keep  household  records  .  .176 

Household  accounts 177 

CHAPTER  Vn 

Heat  and  Light 191 

Care  of  fires 191 

Radiation 191 


CONTENTS  ix 

PAGE 

Comparative  ooet  of  various  methods  of  heating  192 
Factors  governing  consumption  of  fuel  and  convenience  of  oper- 
ation          193 

Suggestions  for  firing  and  cleaning  a  furnace   .  198 

Advantages  and  disadvantages  of  various  fuels  200 

lighting ....  200 

CHAPTER  Vm 

Stoves  and  Cookers 207 

CHAPTER  IX 

Methods  of  Keeping  Foods  Cool 220 

CHAPTER  X 

Kitchen  Utensils     .........  225 

Utensils  best  adapted  to  various  cooking  processes  .         .         .  225 

Special  utensils  and  equipment       •          •.         .          •          .          •  228 

Arrangement  of  utensils         .......  230 

How  to  prepare  new  utensils  for  use  .  .  .  .231 

How  to  protect  metals  not  in  use   ......  232 

Materials  and  their  care 232 

CHAPTER  XI 

Table  Setting  and  Serving       .......  240 

Table  setting 240 

Table  service        .........  244 

Some  table  manners  and  customs            .....  247 

CHAPTER  Xn 

The  Laundry             249 

Fabrics 249 

Water 250 

Soap 253 

Starch         .         .         . 257 

Bluing 261 

Washing 261 


X  CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Bleaching 273 

Ironing 273 

Equipment  for  the  laundry 276 

CHAPTER  XIII 

Stain  Removal 282 

Methods  for  treatment  of  stains  in  general      ....  284 

Specific  methods  for  individual  stains 287 


PART  III 
CLOTfflNG 

CHAPTER  XIV 

Textiles 307 

Cotton 307 

Linen 312 

Wool 315 

Silk 321 

Artificial  silk 324 

Ramie 325 

Jute 325 

•     Tests  for  fabrics 326 

Weave 329 

CHAPTER  XV 

The  Making  of  Clothing 330 

Equipment  for  the  sewing  room     ......  334 

Preparation  of  materials        .......  336 

How  to  take  measurements  .......  338 

Kinds  of  patterns                                                        .  340 

How  to  estimate  the  amount  of  material          ....  342 

How  to  place  the  pattern  on  the  material        ....  344 

How  to  mark  a  pattern  for  basting 348 

How  to  cut  a  garment  ...             .....  352 

How  to  baste  a  simple  garment      .  353 

Kinds  of  seams  for  garments 358 


CONTENTS  Xi 

PAGE 

How  to  make  a  foundation  belt 350 

Fitting  gannents 360 

How  to  make  a  skirt  even  at  the  bottom         ....  363 

How  to  keep  bias  seams  from  sagging     .....  364 

Suggestive  finishes  to  be  used  by  the  home  worker  .  364 

Suitable  materials  for  various  types  of  dresses  and  waists.  360 

Suggestions  for  economy  in  dress 360 

Making  simple  undergarments 360 

Clothing  for  children 381 

Patching 388 

Cloth  darning 380 

Stocking  darning.                                    301 

CHAPTER  XVI 

MiLUNBRT 303 

How  to  select  a  hat 303 

Renovating  materials 400 

Simple  handmade  trimmings 404 

PART  IV 
FOODS  AND  NUTRITION 

CHAPTER  XVII 

Planning  the  Daily  Meals 407 

Good  foods  for  supplying  the  body's  needs      ....  408 

How  to  estimate  the  daily  need  of  fuel 412 

How  to  estimate  the  daily  need  of  protein  .414 

How  to  estimate  the  daily  need  of  lime,  iron  and  phosphorus    .  415 

Some  rules  for  planning  meals                  . '        .  425 

Food  for  the  prospective  mother    ......  433 

Food  for  the  nursing  mother 434 

Formulas  for  infant  feeding            ......  435 

The  part  milk  should  play  in  the  diet  during  growth  436 

CHAPTER  XVIII 

Marketing  for  the  Household 438 

Bu}ring  fresh  or  staple  foodstuffs    ......  430 

Bu}ring  canned  foods    ........  445 


xii  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  XIX 

PAGE 

Food  fob  the  Sick                                        455 

Fluid  diet 455 

Soft  or  semi-fiolid  diet 457 

Light  or  convalescent  diet 458 

Care  and  feeding  for  incipient  colds        .....  458 

Care  and  feeding  for  constipation 459 

Diet  during  a  condition  of  intestinal  putrefaction  461 

Care  and  diet  for  indigestion .         ......  461 

Diet  in  fever 462 

Modified  milk  diets  for  typhoid  fever 463 

Food  for  tuberculosis  patients        ......  463 

CHAPTER  XX 

Beverages 465 

Coffee 466 

Tea 468 

Cocoa 470 

Fruit  juices 472 

CHAPTER  XXI 

Batters  and  Doughs 473 

Classification .473 

Ingredients           .........  474 

Methods  of  mixing        ........  478 

Utensils  for  baking        ........  478 

Filling  the  pans 479 

Baking 479 

CHAPTER  XXII 

Cakes .483 

Cakes  made  with  yeast 483 

Sponge  cakes        .........  48.3 

Butter  cakes 484 

Ingredients  used  in  cakes       .......  484 

Cake  fillings 4vS6 

Cake  frostings 486 


CONTENTS  xiii 
CHAPTER  XXm 

PAQB 

Pisnr                                490 

Ingredients 490 

Characteristics  of  good  pastry 491 

Directions  for  maldng  plain  pastry 492 

Directions  for  making  flaky  pastry 403 

Directions  for  making  puff  pastry 494 

CHAPTER  XXIV 

Yeast  Bbbad 495 

Ingredients. 495 

Mixing  and  kneading    ........  498 

Fermentation 499 

Shaping  dough 499 

Proofing 499 

Baking 500 

"Rope"  in  bread 600 

Recipes        ..........  601 

Salt-rising  bread 605 

CHAPTER  XXV 

CooKiNa  OF  Cereals 506 

CHAPTER  XXVI 

Meat  and  Poultry 510 

Selection  of  meat  by  appearance    .  .         .  .510 

General  rules  for  cooking       ........  512 

General  directions  for  soup-making         .....  514 

Care  of  meat        .........  516 

Keeping  meat 519 

Use  of  market  trimmings  and  meat  fat  in  cooking    .  519 

Chickens  and  fowls 524 

CHAPTER  XXVn 

Fish  and  Oysters 527 

FiBh 527 

Oysters 532 


xiv  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  XXVni 


EOGB 

Tests  for  fresh  eggs 
Egg  cookery 


CHAPTER  XXIX 

Vegetables      M 

Care  of  vegetables  in  the  home M 

Cooking  of  vegetables Ml 

CHAPTER  XXX 

Sauces     U 

White  sauce         .........  W 

Butter  sauce         .........  W 

Brown  sauces W 

Sauces  thickened  with  egg     .......  581 

Sweet  sauces 561 

CHAPTER  XXXI 

Salads 563 

Salad  herbs 563 

Salad  dressings     .........  564 

CHAPTER  XXXII 

Desserts 570 

Fruits 570 

Gelatin  desserts   .........  570 

Whipped  cream    .  .         .         .         .         .         ,  571 

Junket         ..........  572 

Pfossen  desserts    .........  572 

CHAPTER  XXXIII 

Sugar  Cookery 576 

CHAPTER  XXXIV 

Food  Preservation 579 

Preservation  of  food  by  low  temperatures        ....  581 


CONTENTS 


XV 


PAGB 

Drying  fruits  and  vegetables 588 

Salting  vegetables 502 

Canning      ..........  509 

Preservation  of  meat 822 

Sugar-cured  hams,  baoons,  and  tongues 824 

Brine  salt  pork 626 

Dry-cured  pork 626 

Pickled  pigs' feet 626 

Head-cheese         .  - 627 

Lard 627 

Corned  beef 628 

Dried  beef 629 

Pickled  beef  tongues 629 

Hamburg  steak 630 

Mixed  sausage 630 

P6rk  sausage 690 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


FIG. 

1.  Floor  plans  of  a  small  house.         .... 

2.  The  first  floor  plan  of  a  suburban  house 

3.  A  typical  arrangement  of  all  rooms  on  one  floor 

4.  A  small  farmhouse  arranged  on  a  single  floor. 

5.  A  remodeled  farmhouse,  to  illustrate  step-saving 

6.  First  floor  plan,  showing  living  area  and  working  area, 

7.  Second  floor  plan,  showing  sleeping  area 

8.  A  farmhouse  plan,  showing  diagonal  comers  . 

9.  Plan  showing  simplicity  of  living  area    . 

10.  Plan  showing  well-organized  arrangement 

1 1 .  A  house  planned  for  farm  life  and  farm  conditions  . 

12.  A  modest  farm  cott^e  of  good  design    . 

13.  A  typical  low  room  in  an  old-fashioned  cottage 

14.  The  same  type  of  low  room  as  in  Fig.  13 

15.  A  tall  room  of  the  late  nineteenth-century  type 

16.  A  typical  modern  living-room        .... 

17.  A  study  of  windows  in  relation  to  the  adjoining  wall  space 

18.  Types  of  windows         ...... 

19.  A  method  of  hanging  two  sets  of  curtains 

20.  Four  methods  of  curtaining  a  double-hung  window . 

21.  Two  methods  of  curtaining  a  group  of  windows 

22.  Three  arrangements  of  valance  and  curtain 

23.  Three  types  of  valance  and  curtain  arranged  to  cover  the 
24-  A  group  of  typical  side  chairs        .... 

25.  Four  good  table  forms  for  use  in  dining-room  or  hbrary 

26.  Types  of  Colonial  chairs        ..... 

27.  Comfortable  arm-chairs  for  general  use  . 

28.  Three  good  forms  of  couches  .... 

29.  Typical  small  tables  of  good  form  and  finish  . 

30.  Good  typ€*s  of  lamps    ...... 

31.  Arrangc'ment  of  rugs  in  living  room 

32.  Arrangement  of  rugs  in  living  rooms 

33.  Arrangement  of  furniture  in  a  square  dining-room   . 

34.  Arrangement  of  a  large  kitchen      .... 


trun 


PAGE 

4 
5 
6 
7 
10 
12 
13 
14 
15 
17 
20 
25 
32 
32 
34 
34 
36 
38 
56 
58 
60 
64 
67 
79 
80 
82 
84 
86 
87 
91 
93 
96 
98 
101 


XVUl 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


FIG.  PAGE 

35.  Arrangement  of  a  farmhouse  kitchen  .111 

36.  Arrangement  of  a  kitchen  for  a  suburban  house  .112 

37.  Plan  showing  kitchen  arrangements  .113 

38.  A  complete  and  convenient  kitchen  for  any  house  .  .114 

39.  The  pass-pantry  or  serving-pantry 115 

40.  CJomparison  of  scales  for  measuring  temperature  .132 

41.  The  index  of  a  gas  meter 143 

42.  Gas  meter  index  reading  79,500  cubic  feet      ....     144 

43.  Dial  of  a  watthour  meter      .......     147 

44.  Dial  of  a  watthour  meter      .......     148 

45.  Ordinary  form  of  water-meter  dial  .161 

46.  Comparison  of  amount  of  light  given  by  different  gas  lamps  202 

47.  Comparison  of  amount  of  light  given  by  different  electric  lamps    203 

48.  Cost  of  producing  a  given  amount  of  light  by  various  illumi- 

nants  at  usual  prices      .......  204 

49.  Diagram  of  a  home-made  fireless  cooker  .215 

50.  An  iccless  refrigerator  ........  222 

51.  Removable  canton  flannel  cover  for  the  refrigerator  223 

52.  Methods  of  folding  underwear 275 

53.  A  method'  of  folding  sheets  and  tablecloths     ....  276 

54.  Another  method  of  folding  sheets. 277 

55.  A  method  of  folding  nightdresses  and  shirts    ....  278 

56.  A  sleeve-board 280 

57.  Cotton  fibers,  showing  the  characteristic  twist  308 

58.  Linen  fibers,  showing  the  characteristic  nodes  and  longitudinal 

striations      .........     313 

59.  Wool  fiber,  showing  the  characteristic  scales  and  the  serrated 

surface  .........     316 

60.  Silk  fiber,  showing  the  two  minute  filaments  from  the  spinnerets 

of  the  silk  worm    ........  319 

61.  Method  of  shrinking  fullness  out  of  a  garment  336 

62.  Method  of  taking  measurements   ......  338 

63.  Method  of  lengthening  shirt-waist  pattern      ....  342 

64.  Method  of  shortening  a  shirt-waist  pattern     ....  343 

65.  Cutting  and  opening  a  shirt-waist  pattern  to  throw  in  fullness  .  344 

66.  Increasing  or  decreasing  bust  measure  of  a  shirt-waist  pattern  .  345 

67.  Method  of  decreasing  the  size  of  a  shirt-waist  pattern  346 

68.  Method  of  lengthening  a  waist  pattern  for  a  very  full  bust  or 

round  shoulders    ........     347 

69.  Method  used  in  modeling  garments  over  a  flat  pattern  348 


ILLUSTRATtONS  Tax 

no.  PAGS 

70.  Adjusting  pattern  to  fit  shoulders 349 

71.  Simple  adjustment  of  sleeve  pattern 349 

72.  Method  of  cutting  collars  for  flat  or  rolling  efiFect    .  350 

73.  Changing  length  or  width  of  skirt  pattern      ....  351 

74.  Increasing  waist  or  hip  size  of  a  skirt  pattern  351 

75.  Decreasing  the  sise  of  the  hips  of  a  gored  skirt  pattern    .  352 

76.  Adjusting  a  skirt  pattern  for  a  person  who  has  a  prominent 

abdomen  or  hips   * 353 

77.  Another  method  of  adjusting  a  gored  skirt  pattern  for  a  figure 

with  prominent  abdomen    '    .  354 

78.  Method  of  adding  material  to  a  gored  skirt  pattern  .  355 

79.  Designing  narrow  or  full  circular  skirt  pattern  356 

80.  Method  of  cutting  a  pattern  for  a  circular  floimoe  .  357 

81.  Method  of  making  a  foundation  belt  for  a  skirt  or  a  dress  359 

82.  Combinations  of  simple  embroidery  stitches  ....  366 

83.  Setrin  pocket 368 

84.  Method  of  making  a  bound  buttonhole.          ....  370 

85.  Method  of  making  an  arrow 371 

86.  Plain  seam  with  edges  overcast 374 

87.  Plain  seams  374 

88.  French  seam .374 

89.  Hemmed  feU 374 

90.  Overhanded  or  French  fell 374 

91.  Flannel  feU 374 

92.  Methods  of  finishing  the  bottom  of  drawers    ....  377 

93.  Methods  of  finishing  the  bottom  of  an  underskirt    .  377 

94.  Sateen  underskirt  with  cotton-backed  satin  flounce  finished  with 

scalloped  facing 377 

95.  Bound  placket 379 

96.  Bound  and  faced  placket 379 

97.  Continuous  bound  and  faced  placket  with  fly.  379 

98.  Two  methods  of  making  a  hemmed  placket    ....  380 

99.  Methods  of  marking  positions  of  buttonholes.  380 

100.  Methods  of  stranding  buttonholes 380 

101.  Buttonhole  stitch 380 

102.  Suitable  designs  for  an  infant's  dress,  slip,  and  coat  383 

103.  Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  children  from  three  to  five  years  385 

104.  Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  children  from  six  to  ten  years  .  385 

105.  Suitable  designs   for  dresses  for  children  from  ten  to  twelve 

years  ..........  386 


XX  ILLUSTRATIONS 

Fia.  PAGE 

106.  Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  childnm  from  twelve  to  sixteen 

years   ..........  387 

107.  Correct  size  of  a  crown,  shown  by  the  heavy  hne.    .  394 

108.  Incorrect  size  of  crown.         .......  395 

109.  Correct  placing  of  a  hat,  shown  by  the  heavy  line  .                   .  395 

110.  The  prominent  lines  of  the  hat  should  harmonize  with  the  lines 

of  the  face 396 

111.  Correct  placing  of  a  turban  .         ......  396 

112.  The  outline  or  decoration  of  a  hat  should  not  repeat  or  parallel 

undesirable  lines  in  the  face    ......  397 

113.  Decoration  and  structural  lines  of  a  hat        ....  399 

114.  Simple  decorations  possible  in  straw  trimming  404 
116.  Simple  use  of  ribbon  to  decorate  or  change  a  crown  slightly  404 

116.  Stitches  for  folds,  for  sewing  down  facings,  and  for  decoration  .  405 

117.  French  fold,  used  for  decoration  around  crowns  and  brims  406 

118.  Cuts  of  beef 611 

119.  Cuts  of  mutton 611 

120.  Cuts  of  pork                                    612 

121.  Cellar  ventilation                            683 

122.  The  storage  trench 686 

123.  Sterilizer,  showing  false  bottom  as  a  rack        ....  601 

124.  Conuuercial  hot-water  canning  outfit  for  out-of-door  work  602 
126.  Steam  cooker 603 

126.  Manner  of  testing  a  jar         .  605 

127.  Position  of  clamp  during  sterilization 605 

128.  Position  of  clamp  after  sterilization 605 


PLATES 

PUTB 

I.  Dignified  houses,  in  plaster  and  shingle,  adapted  for  country 

homes  ........  Frontispiece 

FACING   PAGE 

II.  Appropriate  types  of  architecture  for  a  suburban  or  country 

home 24 

III.  A  group  of  furnishings  showing  uncrowded  arrangement  and 

unobtrusive  background.  A  similar  group  showing  how  ob- 
trusive background  and  crowded  arrangement  may  obliter- 
ate effect  of  even  well-selected  furnishings  ...       48 

IV.  Types  of  rugs  with  suitable  pattern 52 

V.  Types  of  textile  pattern  that  may  be  used  for  upholstery  or 

hangings    .........       64 

VI.  Good  types  of  desks  and  sideboards     .....       80 

VII.  Typ)es  of  furniture  ugly  in  proportion,  etc.    ....       84 

VIII.  A  few  excellent  types  of  mirrors  and  foot-stools    ...       88 
IX.  Simple  and  serviceable  types  of  bedroom  furniture  .       96 

X.  A  good  kitchen  arrangement  .104 

XI.  Shelves  for  materials  to  be  stored.     Utensils  in  which  foods 

may  be  cooked  and  served  .112 

XII.  Use  of  form  in  draping  dresses  before  and  after  fitting  .  336 

XIII.  Draping  a  waist;  a  simple  skirt  with  cascade  effect  on  sides; 

dress  form  used  in  draping       ......     344 

XIV.  Finishes  for  nightgowns 376 

XV.  Simple  and  effective  designs  in  small  hats.    Finishes  for  corset 

covers .     400 

XVI.  Showing  lOO-calorie  portions  of  some  common  foods      .         .     416 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


A  MANUAL   OF   HOME-MAKING 


PART  I 
THE  HOUSE  AND  ITS  FURNISHINGS 

CHAPTER  I 
THE  MODERK  HOUSE 

By  Helen  Binkerd  Young 

A  BOTJNP  house  plan  h  fuodamental  to  the  econooiics  of  the 
tome.    A  common  impulse  toward  rational  living  has  made  it 
necessary  to  simplify  the  paraphernalia  of  existence;  to  eliminate 
tasks  and  trappings  and  to  arrange  the  remaining  neces- 
sities into  an  orderly  scheme  of  household  Hfe.    The  arrange- 
ment of  the  modern  house  is  a  direct  expression  of  this  point  of 
view.     The  snug^  compact  dwci lings  of  the  present  day  are 
eloquent  records  of  the  scientific  trend  in  home-making. 
.         Theoretically,  the  administration  of  a  hoosehold  under  eon- 
I     sensation  methods  implies  a  perfect  dwelling — one  in  which 
Habere  is  an  exact  adjustment  between  the  worker  and  the  work- 
^B1^^^'  where  there  is  no  friction  between  the  housekeeping  anti 
the  house  structure;  where  the  interior  space  and  equipment  fit 
Urf perfectly  the  operations  of  the  home.    The  gap  that  exists  be- 
|Kweeji  an  effective  scheme  of  work  and  a  poor  arrangement  of 
^Bpace  represents  a  permanent  clement  of  inconvenience  or  waste; 
^nence  the  value  of  a  well-considered  flcror  plan . 

The  comfort  demanded  by  modern  standards  of  living  has 

^Drought  into  the  erection  of  the  house  many  new  materials, 

ay  new  trades  and  a  great  de-al  of  fixed  equipment  in  the 

'way  of  heating,  plumbing,  and   lighting  systems,  hardwood 

1 


UJ>rou( 
■ban} 

I        WftV 


i 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


floors,  and  various  types  of  built-in  closets  and  furniture.    The 
modern  liount^  is  accordingl}^  a  different  and  a  more  cofltly  prod- 
uct than  the  tlwel lings  of  our  fathers,    Thiw  increase  in  the  cost 
of  a  cul)ic  foot  of  the  house  of  to-day,  together  with  the  neceasity 
to  build,  heat,  and  maintain  the  home  economically,  has  had  a 
marked  effect  on  the  size,  shape,  and  arrangement  of  tlwellings.  ■ 
Small  housekeeping  units,  square  floor  plans,  small  halls,  con- 
densed  stair  arrangements,  compact  kitchens,  grouped  ehim- 
ne3'S,  and  groupe<l  window  treatments  are  the  natural  results  of  M 
straightforward  planning  to  oieet  modern  conditions.    Intensive  ■ 
housekeeping  and  inteosive  house-planning  are  the  tendency  of 
the  times. 


ARRANGEMENT  OF   THE   HOUSE 

The  plan  of  the  house  must  he  above  all  a  direct  and  bnsinea&- 
like  arrangement.  Every  foot  of  space  must  he  made  to  count, 
must  contrilHite  either  to  the  smocjthness  of  the  houstnvork  or 
to  the  effectiveness  of  tlie  whole  interior.  There  should  he  no 
waste  nor  stagnant  space,  no  idle  nor  undefined  areas. 

The  organization  of  the  floor  plan  should  fit  the  organization 
of  home  activities.  The  three  phases  of  daily  life— work,  play, 
and  sleep-— sugg€*st  thret*  ili visions  of  space  in  the  arrangement 
of  a  dwT^lliog,  the  living-rooms  forming  one  group,  the  working 
parts  another,  and  the  sleeping-rooms  another*  Each  of  these 
space  groups  is  distinct  in  use,  in  animgenM^nt,  and  in  the  char- 
acter of  its  furnishings. 

Conimunication  between  these  parts  is  provided  l>y  means  of 
hall  and  stairs;  in  fact  the  starting  point  of  any  plan  is  a  study 
of  its  circulation  or  passage.  The  hall  may,  therefoi-e,  be  con- 
sidered as  the  kernel  of  the  plan,  the  distriimting  center  of  space. 

The  arrangement  of  the  living-rooms  should  be  generous  in 
feeling.  To  this  end,  wide  flnorways,  groups  of  window\s,  and 
long  vistas  both  indoors  and  out  are  essentiah  One  lai-ge  unit 
for  general  family  use  and  two  or  three  smaller  ones  usually 
comprise  the  living  area  of  the  modest  house.  Some  variety 
in  the  size,  shape,  and  tlirection  of  the  nmnis  is  desirable  in  the 
design  of  the  living  space.    Combinations  of  oblong  rooms  of 


I 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


difFerent  sizes  placed  at  riglit  aiiKlos  to  each  other,  or  of  oblong 
and  square  rooms  of  different  dimensions,  make  a  more  inter- 
esting and  more  fumishable  arrangement  than  a  succession  of 
square  rooms,  which  tend  to  repeat  each  other  in  character  and 
use.  Generous  window  j^roupK  on  long  or  important  walls  and 
arrangements  of  single  windows  or  pairs  on  short  or  unimportant 
walls  fiuiiish  a  variety  of  outlook  and  hghtiiig  that  is  bound  to 
give  life  and  animation  to  the  whole  interior. 

In  general  the  living-rooms  in  temperate  climates  should 
occupy  southerly  exposures — south,  southeast,  and  south- 
wcst^ — unless  such  an  arrangement  is  contradicted  by  the  di- 
rection of  the  view,  prevailing  winds^  or  other  conditions  of 
the  site.  An  east  dining-room  is  especially  to  be  liesired,  since 
the  morning  sun  on  the  breakfast  talile  start.s  the  day  off 
cheerily.  Living-rooms  southerly  and  working  parts  northerly 
make  a  good  complementar}^  arrangement  for  using  to  advan- 
tage the  four  exposures  of  a  frcc-staiiding  Iiouse. 

Further  discussion  of  the  working  arrangements,  such  as 
kitchen,  pantry,  laundry,  and  the  like,  may  be  found  on  pages] 
90  to  119. 

The  sleeping-rooms  must  above  all  be  private  in  location* 
That  means  that  each  room  must  he  entered  directly  from  a 
hall,  not  from  another  room.  In  a  two-story  house  the  privacy 
of  the  sleeping-rooms  is  automatically  assured  by  placing 
them  on  the  second  floor.  In  a  one-story  arrangement  a  small 
lM?d  room -hall  must  be  deliberately  provided  in  addition  to 
the  entrance-hall. 

The  relative  advantages  of  a  one-floor  or  two-floor  arrange- 
ment for  a  private  dwelling  depend  on  a  number  of  factors. 
In  general,  the  two-story  house  and  the  real  l>ungaIow,  which 
has  all  the  rooms  arranged  on  a  single  floor,  are  climatic  ex- 
pressions of  housing  for  widely  diiTerent  localities.  Each  is 
m  normal  for  its  own  conditions  that  it  becomes  the  prevalent 
type  of  that  place.  The  informal  spread-out  plan  of  the  bunga- 
low is  nomiat  for  warm  climates,  where  yard  and  grounds 
forra  part  of  the  daily  life  for  a  large  part  of  the  year  and  where 
the  buildings  may  be  lightly  constructed  without  cellars  and 


4 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME~MAKL\G 


l-i*i    ar-  ^B 


without  heatinj?  pyslenis*  But  when  a  dwelliag  must  be  ar 
ranged  for  year-round  t^omfort  in  a  locality  of  extreme  heat 
and  cold,  the  supposed  economy  of  a  one-floor  arrangement, 
unless  kepi  very  small  antl  compact,  loses  all  point  and  de- 


moi !  m  ms 


^fC9JI»  f  IIOX.  nAlf 


Fio.  1. — Floor  plans  of  a  small  hous*?.     The  first  floor  plan  hHows  a  de 

spaetoiianc*90  of  living  an^a  and  adaptability  of  working  parts.    TIks  acootid 
flcpor  plan  iihuw»  an  arrttnK<"merit  of  four  U-drooina,  closeta,  and  bath  do-  \ 
veloped  from  a  central  hall. 

feat^  its  own  end.  Large  cellar  antl  roof  areas^  the  nee<l  for 
weather-tight  construction  and  for  an  efTective  heating  plant 
soon  eat  up  the  supposed  eeonomy  of  cost. 

There  is,  however,  something  to  he  said   for  the  simpler 
housekeeping  of  the  one-flnor  arrangement.     The  ease  wnth 
which  a  servant  less  household  may  he  comfortably  maintained! 
when  all  the  living  arrangements  are  on  a  single  tloor^  is  rv- 
sponsil>le  for  the  popularity  of  various  forms  of  apartmentfi,  i 
fiats,  two-family  dwellings,  and  even  rtitta^^es  wilti  l»edroomifi  i 
on  the  tii'st  tioor.     Most  of  the-se  are,  hr>wever,  rented  dwelling-  ^ 
places  and  must  not  l>e  confiisLil  witli  the  type  of  house  that , 
it  18  desirable  to  build  antl  own  as  a  permanent  home. 


THE  MODKRN  HOUSE 


Thp  \\\Tve  arraugenionts  shown  in  the  a<'rompanyinp;  illu8- 
tmtif»ns  are  typical  examples  of  hounes  planned  for  modern 
amditious. 

In  Fig,  1  ai*e  shown  both  floor  plana  of  a  small  house  26  by 


I- 

I 


Pko.  2.-^Th€  Er9t  floor  plan  of  a  Buburban  houtse  designed  for  the  accomodation 
of  ft  fttmily  mth  UttJe  children. 

30  feet.  Here  the  spaciousness  of  the  living  area  and  the  adapt- 
ability of  tiie  working  parts  may  be  instantly  noted.  The 
contrast  in  the  size  and  shape  of  living-  and  dining-rooms, 
together  with  the  long  vista  through  both  rooms  and  porch  to 
the  yard  beyond,  form  a  pleasing  development  of  the  space* 
The  stairway  is  screened  from  the  front  door  and  is  arranged 
m  a  separate  stair-hall  which  serves  also  as  passage  to  the  coat- 
room  and  the  kitchen.  Such  an  arrangement  greatly  assists 
gmooth  and  noiseless  housekeeping.  The  second-floor  plan 
fibow8  an  arrangement  of  four  rooms,  closets,  and  bath  de- 
veloped from  a  central  hall 

In  Fig.  2  Ls  shown  the  first-floor  plan  of  a  suburban  house 
designed  for  the  accommodation  of  a  family  with  little  children. 


6 


A   ^fANUAL  OF  ffOME-MAKING 


oomfM 


The  panel  of  space  across  the  front,  comprising  living-room 
hall,  and  dining-room,  is  supplemented  by  a  similar  arrange- 
ment of  rooms  in  the  rear,  in  the  fonn  of  nursery  and  kitchen. 
The  front  of   the   house  can    thim    be  kept   in  order  while 


Fia*  3. — A  typical  urangenient  nf  all  moms  on  one  floor.    The  livins^rooins  ftiid 
kitcheQ  are  fp^uped  snugly  togrtber,  and   the  bcnirooma  are  grauped  und 
to  upen  friim  a  retired  hall. 


the  rear  part  is  in  use.  The  nurseiy  is  so  located  that  it 
can  be  watched  by  the  worker  in  the  kitchen,  and  the  stairs 
are  very  acce8sil>le.  With  such  an  an'angement  properly 
equipped,  a  mother  could  do  her  own  work  without  exhaiistiouj 
or  loss  of  time.  The  children's  lunch  could  be  served  in  theV 
nurser>^  and  the  mother's  couch  and  sewing  materials  would 
always  l*e  ready.  The  nurser>^  could  later  be  transformed 
into  a  study-room  or  library,  or  in  case  of  illness  into  a  dow^l• 
stairs  bedroom,  since  toilet  facilities  are  at  hand.  The  house* 
als*J  adjusts  itself  to  hired  help. 

A  typical  arrangement  of  all  rooms  on  one  floor  is  shown 


THE  MODERN  HOVSE  7 

in  Fig*  3,  The  living-rooms  nrrd  kilrhen  are  grouped  snugly 
together,  and  the  hedroouTs  are  grouped  antl  firriinged  to  open 
a  retired  hall.  Such  a  filan  is  tfuitahle  for  a  one-fltK>r 
cottage  arrangement  in  teoiperato  climates.  Another  one- 
floor  arrangement  is  shown  in  Fig.  4* 


Pio«  4.— A  araall  fannhouBe  amiri(?ed  on  a  single  floor,  with  n  ccllur  beneath  for 
the  furnace  atiJ  fur  vi^gctable  aturagc, 

THE  FARMHOUSE  * 

No  building  can  be  discussed  intelligently  apart  from  its 
Hurroundings.  The  beyt  placing  of  the  farmhouse  depends 
on  the  location  of  the  liarns  and  other  outbuildiTigs.  The  rela- 
tion of  these  buildings  to  one  another  and  to  such  considerations 
lis  sunlight,  view^  roadways,  and  garden  should  he  carefully 
studied.  Obviously,  a  general  farm  scheme  that  imitcs  into 
ne  workable  system  lands,  bams,  and  dwelling  is  the  wisest 
ining  for  the  development  of  any  property.  Each  im- 
provement will  then  take  its  place  in  the  final  scheme,  and 

•  The  remainder  of  this  chapter  is  tnkea  from  Cornell  Rciuling-Coiirse 
for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  39. 


.4  AfANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

permanent  economy  will  rci^ult.    Owners  of  either  old  or  new 
farmsteads  will  profit  by  adhering  to  a  simple  and  direct  work- « 
inf;  plan  for  the  farm  grounds.    The  farmhouse  is  merely  onaf 
miit  of  the  whole  farmstead. 

The  practical  value  of  a  working  plan  can  hardly  be  over- 
estimated. The  haphazard  farm  groups  commonly  seen  bearJ 
eloquent  testimony  to  the  futility  of  developing  property  with- 
out plan.  Failure  to  plan  involves  waste  of  money  and  labor; 
it  means  a  continuous  process  of  tearing  dowTi,  reconstructing, 
and  makeshift.  Under  all  circumstances,  hit-and-miss  methods^ 
of  work  have  proved  unfailingly  wasteful.  Organized  farming 
and  organized  housekeeping  are  the  present  tendency,  and  to| 
this  end  an  organized  arrangement  is  necessary.  A  well-planned 
fannstead  is  more  economical,  more  orderly,  more  beautifulj 
and  more  salable  than  one  which,  like  Topsy,  '*ju8t  growed/* 

FARMHOUSE   PUIP^'INO 

A  farmhouse  is  more  difficult  to  plan  than  either  a  city  or  a 
suburban  dwelling,  because  it  must  pi-ovide  for  so  many  in 
The  city  or  the  suburban  house  is  merely  a  home;  it  is  suppl 
nientcd  L*y  an  outside  place  of  l>usiness  and  l>y  outside  markets. 
The  farmhouse,  on  the  other  hand,  must  be  not  only  a  home, 
but  alscj  the  business  center  and  to  a  limited  extent  the  sto 
and  the  market.     This  means  that,  planned  as  compactly  a$^j 
may  be,  a  fannhouse  is  necessarily  larger  in  floor  area  (lian  a 
suburban  house  for  the  same  family  nec*d  be.     Much  thought 
and  planning  are,  therefoi-e,  required  in  order  to  arrange  thidi 
larger  area  in  such  a  manner  that  wasteful  methods  of  work 
will  be  avoided. 


I 


Tradiiional  types. 

It  may  truly  be  said  that  the  problem  of  the  American  farm- 
house is  still  unsolved.     For  the  building  of  new  appropriate^ 
fann  dwellings,  there  is  almost  no  precedent  to  guide  one.^ 
Most  of  the  rural  houses  liow  standing  are  failures  as  farm- 
houses because  they  were  not  plauneil  for  farm  conditions 
In  fact,  many  of  them  were  not  planned  at  all.    They  w« 


THE  MODERN   HOUSE 


9 


merely  built,  and   built  iti  ahout    the  followmg  fashion:  an  > 

outer  shell  was  constnirtcd  and  roofed  over,  the  inside  was 

divided  into  rooms,  and  somewhere  a  kitchen  was  attached. 

If  the  house  became  too  small^  more  rooms  were  added  to  fit 

the  growing  needs  of  the  famil3^     With  each  addition  to  the 

hotise.  the  kitchen  retreated  to  tire  rear  of  tlie  structure,  where, 

Ia'  hs  verj'  distance  from  the  living-rooina,  it  confined  the 

housewife  to  her  post  of  duty.     As  the  family  decreased  in 

numbers  and  helpers  became  few,  the  front  part  of  the  house 

WES  closed  and  home  life  was  centered  within  the  radius  of 

ihct  kitchen  and  its  activities* 

Such  of  these  okl  structures  as  are  soundly  built  are  worth 
replanning  and  equipping  with  running  water,  electric  Ught^ 
sound  floors,  and  a  good  heatinp:  system.  Alteration  should 
be  undertaken  only  after  the  complete  project  has  been  worked 
out  on  paper. 

Id  Fig.  5  is  illustrated  a  rambling  plan  of  the  traditional 
farmhouse  of  the  upright-and-wing  type  previously  described. 
The  original  and  the  remodeled  arrangement  are  shown  in  A 
and  B,  respectively.  The  main  faults  of  the  old  plan,  A,  arc 
t^^o:  first,  the  plan  is  deficient  in  correctly  located  hall  space; 
second,  the  distance  fi-om  the  kitchen  to  the  front  of  the  house 
is  too  gre^t.  Since  a  person  must  pass  through  one  room  in 
order  to  reach  another,  the  whole  floor  virtually  becomes  a 
passageway.  This  condition  destroys  privacy,  interrupts  work, 
and  entails  much  extni  cleaning.  The  correct  amount  of  hall 
area  placed  in  the  heart  of  the  plan  would  give  separate  entrance 
to  each  room  and  would  save  the  wliole  house.  Hall  space 
should  be  regarded  as  tlic  developer  of  the  jilan.  If  the  plan 
is  compactly  arranged  and  the  hall  centrally  placed,  great 
service  may  he  obtained  from  even  a  small  allowance  of  hall 
Fpa(*e,  The  presence  of  five,  six,  or  seven  doors  in  a  room  in- 
dicates poor  hall-plarming,  and  therefore  poor  house-planning. 
It  is  well  to  remember  that  the  number  of  doors  in  a  room 
diminishes  in  proportion  to  the  excellence  of  the  plan. 

In  plan  B  there  is  introduced  enough  central  hall  area  to 
pve  direct  access  to  each  of  the  rooms.    The  kitchen  is  placed 


( 


"^^    C^-jD    r\JK        A 


I 
i 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


11 


Btrally  at  the  rear  of  this  liallway.  Tliis  brings  the  kitchen 
er  the  living  rooms  and  shortens  all  working  distances. 
If  the  distances  from  the  center  of  the  kitchen  to  the  center 
of  each  room  in  plans  A  and  B  are  computed,  it  is  found  that 
the  remodeled  plan  saves  an  average  dustance  of  fifteen  feet 
a  round  trip  over  the  old  plan. 

In  the  remodeled  plan,  such  modern  improvements  as  heat, 
Ught,  and  running  water  have  been  added;  closets  also  have 
been  provided.  The  wiiole  |>Uin  is  now  arranged  so  as  to  en- 
courage wholesome  hving. 

Under  the  old  plan  the  house  contained  two  cellars,  one 
under  the  square  upright  and  one  under  the  kitchen,  with  an 
unexcavated  area  under  the  dining-room.  A  long  journey 
was  thereby  involved  in  going  from  one  excavated  part  to  the 
other.  The  new  plan  simplified  this  difficulty  by  excavating 
under  the  dining-room  wing. 

A  study  of  new  types. 

Attention  must  now  be  focused  on  more  economical  arrange- 
ments. The  plan  of  any  l)uilding  is  l>ased  primarily  on  its 
needs*  Broadly  speaking,  family  life  makes  three  demands  on 
a  house  plan:  that  it  shall  provide  living  area,  working  area, 
and  sleeping  area.  The  living  area  includes  such  parts  as 
sitting-room,  dining-room,  lil)rary,  office,  and  porch;  the  work- 
ing area  includes  kitchen,  pantr>%  laundrjr,  hall^  and  stairs; 
the  sleeping  area  includes  bedrooms  and  l>ath*  It  is  tlie  func- 
tion of  a  good  plan  to  organize  these  three  elements  into  a 
compact  arrangement,  allowing  each  requireuient  an  area  to 
itself.  Spaciousness  must  l>e  expressed  in  the  living  area,  com- 
pactness in  the  working  area,  and  privacy  in  the  sleeping  area. 

The  farm  cottage  show^n  in  Figs.  6  and  7  aptly  illustrates 
these  principles.  Here  is  a  compact  plan  with  its  three  areas 
clearly  defined.  In  the  living  area  a  feeling  of  spaciousness 
is  obtained  by  the  use  of  wide  doorways  and  groups  of  w^indows 
through  which  vistas  are  seen  indoors  and  out.  No  interior, 
however  small  in  actual  dimensions,  need  appear  cramped 
if  long  vistas  are  planned  for.     Good  interior  design  is  also 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKfXO 


evident  in  Fig.  0.     It  is  irrdicatetl  [)y  the  hiiliiiiccd  arraiigemi 
of  the  structural  |iar<s  of  each  rof>in.    On  the  rear  wall  of  t 
iivinj^-rooni  is  seen  a  cenlnd  liropiacc  liaiiked  hy  broad  do< 
ways  of  equal  width,  while  the  front  wall  opposite  e^xpaq 
into  a  generous  bay  window   centrally  placed,   with   biiilt^ 


Fio.  6. — Fimt  floor  plan,  showing  living  ar»_*ii  an  J  working  area. 

bookshelves  to  right  and  left*  These  features  so  unite  as 
make  of  the  living-room  a  composition  at  once  so  dignifii 
so  orderly,  and  so  effective  that  little  furnitui-e  is  needed  J 
complete  it.  In  the  dining-room,  balanced  design  is  expresa 
by  the  long  flower-box,  the  bay  window^  and  l:>y  the  central  do 
on  the  opposite  wall,  flanked  by  diagonal  comer  features 


13 


f equal  width.     In  Kenenili  tiiagonal  corners  should  be  avoided 
'  mvpt  where  the3'  ^^e  a  practical  necessity  or  where  they  are 
deliberately  used  for  reasons  of  design,  as  in  Fig,  8. 
Of  the  working  area  (Fig.  6),  the  kitchen,  pantry,  and  stairs 


Flo.  7* — Second  floor  plan,  showiag  sleeping  area. 

ie  parts  most  conHtantty  usefl  by  the  woman  of  the  house. 
Hence  they  are  compactly  |2jonptxt  antl  are  plaeed  next  to  the 
IKing  spaee.  Wood  room  and  washroom  are  of  intemiitlent 
use  to  the  housewife  but  of  constant  use  to  the  farmer.  Conse- 
quently they  are  placed  away  from  the  living  rooms  in  the 
direction  of  driveway  and  bams. 


Fio.  8* — A  farmhouse  plan,  shomng  diiiKonal   coniera  used   delib 
purpose  *if  dcstfcn. 

The  sleeping  area  provides  one  bathroom  and  three  I 
rooms,  each  of  the  latter  with  its  closet.  Their  position 
the  second  floor  renders  tlicm  tiiiict  and  private. 

Briefly  stated^  economy  of  plan  is  expressed  in  the  grou 


Fio.  9. — Plan  showing  simplu'ity  of  living  area  and  com* 
pk'teness  of  workitig  aroti, 

thimney  arrangement,  in  the  condensed  hall  and  Rtair  arrange- 
ment, and  in  the  nnixM  kitchen.  The  kitchen  arrangement  is 
weak,  liowev^er,  in  some  respects.  It  has  only  one  outside  wall 
Bd  is  therefore  lacking  in  cross-ventilation.     Moreover,  the 


16 


.4   MAX  UAL  OF  ^OME'^fAKlNG 


position  of  the  door  hotwf»<?ii  tliiiuig-room  and  kitchen,  being 
in  line  with  the  kitchen  ranKe,  wouhl  surely  prove  a  nuisance 
frofn  fonsiderationH  of  sigljt,  8ound,  and  smelJ.  It  is  unfor- 
tunate»  too,  that  the  path  of  travel  from  the  rear  to  the  front 
of  the  house  leads  through  the  kitchen. 

In  Fig.  9  is  represented   another  well-planned   farmhouse.  J 
It  is  characterized  chiefly  by  t!ie  simplicity  of  the  living;  area 
and   by   the  roniptetenes8  of   (tic*   working  ai-ca.     Each  area 
occupies  about  one-half  of  the  floor  plan. 

The  living  area  is  unique  and  spacious.  Instead  of  two 
separate  roonis»  each  of  which  w^oitld  be  small,  living-room 
and  dining-room  are  cond>ined  into  one  large  apartment.  A 
group  of  thrLMT*  glass  thnws  connects  this  gener<ms  living-room 
with  an  unusual  porch  arrangement,  called  on  the  plan  an 
**arbored  terrace."  This  terrace,  which  is  cement-paved  under 
foot  ami  vine-covered  overhead,  is  in  reality  an  open-air  con- 
tinuation of  the  living-room,  which  adds  materially  to  tho 
comfort  of  the  family  in  summer.  Here  meals  may  be  served 
while  son  light  and  garden  are  enjoyed.  The  position  of  window  I 
groups  on  both  ends  of  the  large  room  creates  a  long,  unbroken  | 
vista,  so  that  all  the  living  space  is  appreciates!  all  the  time. 

Centrally  place^l  on  the  long  outer  wall  of  the  living-room 
is  a  fireplace  alcove,  or  inglenook.  This  feature  incre^ises  the 
actual  width  of  the  room  and  provides  two  outdoor  vistas  in 
new  directions.  Inglenooks,  however,  should  be  used  with 
great  reserve  unless  they  are  generous  in  width  and  develop 
naturally  on  the  plan.  Many  times  the  excellence  of  an  entire  | 
plan  is  sacrificed  to  the  use  of  a  feature  of  tliis  nature. 

The  completeness  of  the  working  area  is  l^est  appreciated 
by  observing  that  each  kind  of  work  has  its  allottetl  place* 
The  kitchen  is  intende<l  for  cooking;  the  pantry*  for  food 
storage;  the  pass  panfr>%  for  dishes;  the  wootlroom,  for  fuel; 
the  hall  and  staii^s,  for  passage;  the  tw^o  recessed  porches  gather 
entrance  to  the  house  m  a  common  passage  that  serves  all 
rooms. 

The  kitchen  arrangement  shown  in  Fig.  0  excels  that  in 
Fig.  6  in  at  least  three  particulars.    The  ijitrotluction  of  a 


iti 


T 


•ft 


n^' 


II 


^  II    i  I J  ■ " 


^f\^> 


]  tjiTtfm 
1.  I 


? 


c 

I 

1 
a 

I 

I 

A. 

I 

Q 

6 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINd 


L 


pantry  serves  to  seclude  the  kitchen  from   Ihe  living- 
gfxwj  cro88-ventilation  takes  place  between  the  wmdowi^ 
table  and  sink;  and  the  path  of  travel  from  the  rear  porch  to 
the  front  of  the  house  does  not  cross  the  kitchen. 

In  this  lK)ij,se  the  laundiy  is  located  in  the  bsiscnient,  which 
stands  out  of  jirroiind  on  the  kitchen  comen  An  outside  door 
enters  the  cellar  on  ^radc  leveL 

The  IxHli-ooni  plan  is  compact,  privatei  light,  and  airy- 
Other  plans  tnay  l)c  analyzeil  in  a  siniihir  manner*  the  strength 
and  the  weakness  of  various  arrangements  noted,  luul  a  sense 
of  good  planning  acquired.  The  larger  farmhoost?  shown  in 
Fig.  10  has  bet^n  inserted  for  iiei-^onal  study  on  the  part  of 
the  readers.  It  represents  a  well-organizcil  arrangement  with 
a  new  feature  intro<kiced  in  the  rear — a  hireiJ  niun*s  room 
with  separate  stairs  leading  to  it.  The  dignified,  simple,  and 
well-designed  exterior  shown  in  Plate  I,  upper  figure,  will  stim- 
ulate the  imagination  and  sen-e  to  make  the  plan  more  realistic/] 

It  must  not  l)e  supposed  that  the  plans  shown  in  Figs.  6,  8, 
and  9  are  perfect  in  e\'ejy  resi>eet.  No  business  office  is  in- 
eluded  and  they  contain  fewer  licdrooms  than  farmhouses  of 
the  past  have  provided.  It  must  be  remembered  that  each 
of  these  houses  was  designed  for  a  particular  family  and  for  a 
particular  farm  site,  as  all  successful  liouses  should  be.  Con- 
sequently they  arc  not  intendtxi  as  models  to  be  copie(i,  but 
as  illostrations  of  the  principles  of  house-planning.  If  the 
principles  of  planning  are  understood  they  may  be  applied, 
whether  to  new  work  or  to  alterations. 

In  geneml,  an  intricate  or  confused  plan  is  alwajns  a  poor 
one;  the  more  carefully  an  arrangement  is  studied,  the  simpler 
it  should  become.  Briefly  state<l,  the  final  test  of  a  gootl  plan 
is  its  extreme  simplicity.  Starting  at  the  main  entrance,  one 
should  be  afjle  to  proceed  mentally  through  tlie  plan  w*ith  ease 
and  comprehension.  For  tite  most  part  the  walls  should  be 
in  continuous,  straight  lines  and  should  show  an  absence  of 
jogs,  angles,  and  diagonal  comers.  Windows  may  be  grouped 
or  single,  but  should  l>e  disposed  iti  an  orderly  manner  with 
relation  both  to  interior  and  to  exterior  appearance. 


I 
I 


I 


I 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


19 


The  plans  shown  are  a  reasonable  protest  against  the  old 
fiystefut  types  of  farm  dwellings.  Study  of  these  plans  will 
to  show  in  what  respects  tlie  modern  rural  house  should 
differ  from  former  arrangenients.  A  living-room  now  com- 
bines the  unused  parlor  and  the  o%^erused  sitting-room  for 
^neral  family  life;  an  office  where  the  farmer's  business  is 
transacted  is  provided  in  a  place  convenient  to  roadway  and 
ham,  but  outride  the  path  of  housework  travel;  the  kiteheii 
arrangement  is  compact  and  well  organized;  the  dowTistaira 
bedrooms  open,  not  from  other  rooms,  but  from  a  private  hall, 
thus  insuring  quiet  and  privacy  (Figs,  5  and  8);  a  bathroom  is 
provided  on  eitlier  the  fii-st  or  the  second  fioor,  according  to 
water  pressure;  if  possilile  all  the  bedrooms  are  provided  with 
windows  on  two  sides;  tlie  large  hall  with  open  stall's  has  given 
way  to  a  more  condensetl  armngement;  a  generous  porch  or 
uncovered  terrace  is  placeil  where  it  either  conmiands  the 
best  view  or  is  most  useful  during  the  day;  the  family  hearth 
has  literally  n^turned  in  tlic  tivuig-room  fireplace;  and  the 
whole  plan  is  so  arranged  that  the  rooms  Mved  in  most  are  the 
sunniest. 

A  dwelling  combining  the  above  features  is  illustrated  in 
Fig.  IL  Wisely  stiidiGi!  and  frankly  arranged,  without  a  foot 
of  waste  room,  thLs  structure  represents  a  type  of  farmhouse 
that  is  economical  to  build,  to  heat,  and  to  work*  The  stairs 
for  the  whole  house  are  contained  in  one  vertical  shaft;  the 
hall  is  reduced  to  a  small  area;  an  office  is  placed  near  the 
roadway  and  away  from  the  housewife's  work,  %vhich  is  accom* 
modated  in  a  dining-room  and  kitchen  combination;  a  man's 
room  is  provided  at  the  extreme  end  of  the  plan^  a%vay  from 
the  family;  a  washroom  is  on  the  line  of  travel  between  the 
hack  porch  and  the  dining-rcKnn;  and  a  spacious  living-room, 
mth  fireplace  antl  window  groups,  is  locatwl  on  a  desirable 
comer.  On  the  second  floor,  the  stairs  land  centrally  in  a 
square  hall,  which  gives  direct  entrance  to  each  of  the  four 
bedrooms  and  to  the  bathroom;  the  bedrooms  are  provided 
with  good  closets;  hght  and  ventilation  are  everywhere  abun- 
dant, I 


20 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


LWJMWY  . 


FIP5T  rLOOR 
PLA/M. 


■*^    HALL 


JED  R<«n  If  ^^.        TlBU^f?^ 


ATTJC  .*5F^Ct 


^ 


5tccyHD  ruooR 

PLAN 

Fig.  11. — A  house  pl&aaed  for  fiimi  lifo  and  fa  mi  rondiiioiis* 

Modem  imprmemefda. 

The  class  of  conveniences  koown  as  modern  iraprovementa — \ 

meaninjr  ihtTehy  phimbing,  heatinj?,  and  lighting  systems,  the 
installation  of  nierlniniral  power  to  Ix*  ilsihI  for  pumps,  wash- 
ing machines,  mangles,  vacuum  cleanei*s,  and  the  like — may 
properly  !>e  discussed  only  hy  experts  who  have  special  knowl- 
edge of  them.    The  practical  aspect  of  most  of  thet^e  improve- J 


meots  has  been  widely  discussed  in  books  and  pamphlets,  so 
that  any  householder  may  become  informeil  Ijefore  iDatalling 
8uch  improvements  in  the  home. 

EXTERIOR  DESIGN    (PLATES  I  AND   II) 

In  order  to  be  a  success,  a  ooiiriiry  house  must  l>e  in  har- 
mony with  its  environment.  It  shouUl  appear  to  have  grown 
on  its  site,  and  to  be  a  normal  expresf^ion  of  human  life  in  nat- 
ural surroundings.  The  house  should  be  in  tutie  with  the  color 
and  the  contour  of  the  landscape.  Fanii  lands  which  are  for 
Ihe  most  part  flat  or  rolIin«r,  produce  contoui*s  which  are 
strongly  horizontal.  Architectore  that  h  aijpropriate  to  such 
landscape  should  in  general  he  low,  K>road,  and  snuj!;.  Tall 
Uttqw  structures  are  necessaiy  in  cities  where  land  is  costly 
and  are  appropriate  in  rugged,  cliffy  countries  where  nature 
k  replete  with  vertical  surfaces;  but  they  are  inappropriate 
h  when  standing  free  on  a  fiat  gite. 

Color  scheme. 

Tile  setting  of  a  rural  house  presupposes  such  natural  scenery 
as  is  composed  of  trees,  shrubs,  lawns»  gardens,  hills,  rocks^  and 
streams.  The  color  effect  of  the  house  must  l>e  in  harmony 
with  this  setting.  8ueh  colons  as  white,  cream,  grays,  soft 
greens,  and  browns  of  various  sbtnles  will  always  harmonize 
with  nature,  lied  is  bold  unless  partially  screenetl  by  planting. 
The  use  of  brick  is  about  the  only  reason  for  introducing  a  red 
scheme.  Brick  walls  are  hroken  in  mass  by  jointing  and 
od  by  contrast  at  the  openings,  whereas  a  womlen  house 
painted  red  is  distressing.  When  field  stone,  concrete,  cement, 
or  brick  is  used,  the  color  scheme  is  spontaneous,  being  pro- 
duced by  the  color  of  the  materials  selected;  when  wood  is 
employed »  however,  a  surface  color  effect  is  appli*?d  by  means 
_of  stain  or  paint.  This  color  scheme  should  be  neither  too 
iiU  nor  t.oo  bright.  Cold  grays  and  tlrabs  are  about  as  cheer- 
'Bs  red  is  aggressive.  In  general,  when  choosing  paint 
samples,  it  is  wise  to  select  a  color  that  is  somewhat 
fter  than  the  effect  desired.    A  small  piece  of  gay  color  wliich 


22 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


I 

I 
I 


looks  interestinjj^  in  tht^  hand,  appeal's  glarinR  and  t)nld 
coverinj?  an  entire  liouse.    Likewise,  a  cold,  deati  rolor  ap] 
cheerless  when  useil  in  mass. 

The  ehief  factor  to  be  avoided  in  paint injj;  hous(*s  is  an  ei- 
feet  of  patehiness.  For  exaraple,  in  the  e^ise  of  a  porch  post 
or  eolumn,  the  cap  and  the  base  should  not  be  painted  one 
color  and  the  shaft  another*  The  whole  porch  should  be  one 
idea*  Cornices,  brackc^ts,  and  moldings  should  not  lie  picked 
out  by  color,  as  light  and  shade  interpret  them  sufficiently. 
Useless  bric-a-brae  and  ornament  that  cannot  be  removed 
should  be  subdued  as  much  as  possible  in  the  color  scheme. 

Looked  at  jis  a  picture,  the  windows  and  doors  of  a  housa 
should  appear  iis  decorative  accents^  contrasting  with  the 
background  of  wall.  Windows  esj)ecially  are  the  eyes  that 
give  expression  to  tlie  architectural  face  of  the  dwelUog.  With 
walls  of  a  light  color  the  windows  naturally  form  a  dark  con- 
trfist;  but  if  the  walls  are  dark  or  dull  in  effect,  the  windows 
may  l>e  enlivened  by  painting  the  sash  a  lighter  or  brighter 
color  and  the  blinds  a  clear  shade  of  green,  yellow-brown,  or 
other  harmonious  color.  Doorways  and  entrances  should 
have  dignified  recognition  in  the  color  scheme, 

General  proportion.  ^ 

The  effectiveness  of  a  house  in  the  landscape  depends  not 
at  all  on  ornament,  but  on  its  structural  shape  and  the  color  m 
produced  through  the  use  of  liuiUling  materials*  RefiJied  f 
profXJrtions,  simple  ruof  lines,  and  interesting  l>ut  noli  violent 
contrasts  lK?tween  roof,  walls,  and  openings,  together  with 
the  character  and  arrangement  of  windows  and  doors,  are 
the  elements  that  combine  to  make  of  a  country  house  an  ex- 
ample of  true  rural  architecture* 

It  has  lieen  fireviously  stated  that  the  mass- proportion  of  a 
house  in  the  opeii  countiy  should  Lh*  low  and  broad  rather^ 
than  tall  and  narrow.    This  feeling  of  proixirtion  depends  not  fl 
so  much  on  the  actual  height  of  the  house  fmm  ground  to 
gable,  as  on  the  position  of  the  eave^s  or  the  cornice  line.    When  _ 
the  eaves  line  is  low,  the  effect  of  the  house  is  low;  hence  the  i 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


23 


value  of  long  roof  linrs  in  olitainin^  good  proportions.  If  the 
roof  rafters  air  brought  down  to  the  level  of  the  second  floor, 
a  sotin<l«  practical^  and  at  tract i\T  structure  usually  results. 
It  is  desirable  to  include  the  porch  under  such  a  roof  whenever, 
possible,  since  this  simplifies  the  roofing  system  of  the  house' 
and  unites  house  and  porch  into  one  contained  design.  While 
long  roof  lines  and  rccci^sed  porches  are  not  always  desirable, 
they  have  their  cliarm  and  place. 

Low  eaves  and  a  long  roof  lino  usually  tit  a  famihou.se  plan 
ver>'  conveniently  because  such  a  treatment  l>rings  a  smaller 
second-floor  plan  than  first -ficwr  plan.  This  is  exactly  the 
farmhouse  requirement.  The  rnonis  imder  the  roof  may  be 
lighted  and  ventilati^d  by  means  of  generous  dormers  or  gables. 

It  is  conunonly  supposed  that  iietlrooms  located  under  a 
sloping  roof  must  necessarily  lie  low  and  hot.  This  is  not 
true.  The  fact  that  some  betlroorns  so  locateil  have  been  stuffy 
does  not  argue  that  all  bedrooms  need  to  be  so;  it  implies 
rather  that  there  has  l>c*en  no  cross- ventilation  or  that  the 
windows  were  placed  so  low  as  to  leave  a  pocket  of  hot  air 
confined  near  the  ceiling.  An  outlet  for  the  hot  air  shoult!  be 
furnished  by  windows  placed  high  in  the  room.  If  the  roof 
pitch  and  dormer  wintlows  are  studied  to  fit  tlie  height  of  the 
seeond-floor  rooms,  a  full  second  stor>'  with  high  or  full-length 
I  windows  may  be  commodiously  arranged  under  a  long  roof, 
and  the  low  part^  may  be  used  for  closets. 

StniCtural  elernents. 

The  windows  of  a  dwelling,  whether  grouped  or  single, 
should  be  similar  in  style  and  should  show  some  kind  of  orderly 
arrangement.  In  general,  unity  of  tlesign  is  preserved  if  the 
>ps  of  all  windows  on  a  tioor  are  kept  on  the  safne  leveL  Vari- 
ations in  window  heights  will  thus  occur  between  the  floor 
level  and  the  sill.  Oval  windows,  diarnond-shafx^d  windows, 
and  other  fancy  forms  should  he  avoideti.  A  miscellaneous 
collection  of  windows  jotted  at  diiTerent  points  over  a  building 
robs  it  of  dignity  and  composure,  Window  blinds  and  small 
paocA  have  a  certain  decorative  value  from  the  outside. 


24 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


No  country  houst*  is  (nmiplefe  without  a  K^neroui^  porch  or 
other  feature  that  will  form  a  center  for  outdoor  family  life. 
A  vine-covered  arbor^  a  paved  spot,  or  merely  a  shaded  stretch 
of  lawn  near  the  lioiise  may  be  made  fully  as  livable  as  the 
usual  |3cjrch.  The  usual  type  of  American  porch,  a  covered 
platform  attached  to  the  house,  built  high  and  dry,  inclosed 
by  a  railing,  and  reached  by  steps,  has  artificially  confined 
outdoor  life  to  the  house  apart  from  yard  and  gfU'dt^n,  If 
comfort  and  beauty  arc  ivotli  to  be  t^erved,  neither  porch  nor 
-garden  should  be  sacrificed;  they  should  rather  be  an^anged 
I'luljacently  so  that  the  law^ti  adjoins  the  porch  and  the  vistas 
down  the  garden  paths  are  continuous  with  the  main  vdstas 
from  (he  porch,  or  are  relatiil  to  views  from  the  important 
windows  of  the  house.  In  other  words,  house  and  grounds 
should  be  planned  as  one  continuous  design,  u^ing  n^  ^^  mn-- 
necting  link  the  porch. 

The  cliief  difficulty  with  a  united  porch  and  gai'den  scijci 
arises  from  the  usual  difference  in  height  l>etween  the  pore 
floor  and  the  yard  level.     These  two  levels  may  be  brought  ne 
toget  her  either  by  stH  ting  the  house  low  on  the  ground  and  build 
ing  areas  around  the  cellar  windows  (Plate  1),  or  l\v  raising  | 
flat,  graded  terrace  to  within  a  step  or  two  of  the  porch  floorf 
Both  these  schemes  are  fretjuently  and  successfully  practiced^ 
and  in  no  w^ay  prevent  light  and  air  from  entering  the  cellar* 

In  order  to  be  commodious,  a  porch  should  h^  room-shap 
rather  than  long  amt narrow.    A  porch  10  to  12  feet  wide  and 
14  to  20  feet  long  will  give  greater  comfort  than  one  0  to  8 
feet  wide  and  extending  around  two  sides  of  the  house.    Furthe 
more,  a  rectangular  porch  will  not  darken  so  much  of  the 
tenor  as  will  one  extending  along  the  full  length  of  the  hoi 
If  the  porch  occupies  a  sunny  position,  it  niay  be  shaded  and 
embowered  by  screening  with  latticework,  over  wWch  vines 
may  be  allowed  to  grow»    A  cement  or  brick  floor  is  desirablCj 
for  porch  use.  I 

If  an  upstairs  sleeping-porch  is  planned,  the  railing  should  be 
built  sohdly  from  the  floor  for  2  or  3  feet,  and  the  open  part 
above  should  be  provided  with  window  sasli  and  awnings  in 


Jced. 

kr.l 

*pe<F 
and 
to  g 

ther- 

JUS? 


Plate    IL — Appropriate     typps    of    tirchitp^^tun?     for    a     suburban    or 
cour»tr>'  Jumn'. 


3 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


2S 


that  storms  and  early  morning  !ij;ht  may  be  excluded. 

I  awangement  can  be  made  comfortable  for  year-round  use. 

Outside  entrance  doors  should  be  sheltered  by  a  hood  on 

brackets,  by  a  (lortico,  or  by  a  porch  (Fig*  12).    It  is  usually  de- 

I  arable  to  separate  the  living-porch  from  the  main  entrance. 


1^ 


Fig,  12. — A  modcat  farm  nottagc  of  go<xl  dcsigii. 

Here,  if  anywhere,  a  little  genuine  design  should  be  afforded, 
portal  is  an  intimate  feature  and  should  express  dignity ,  hos- 
tality,  and  l)eauty  to  all  who  enter.  A  natural-finish  oak 
door  with  plate  gla^ss  panel  can  hardly  be  considered  appro- 
priate for  a  decorative  doorway,  because  it  i^  out  of  keeping, 
both  in  material  and  color,  with  the  remainder  of  the  exterior. 


COST  OP  BUILDINO 

The  actual  cost  of  building  a  given  house  is  determine  fi 
largely  by  local  conditions,    llie  cost  of  labor,  the  cost  of  ma- 


20 


MAXUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


terials  used,  the  distance  of  the  new  building  from  the  base 
of  supplies,  and  the  amount  of  hauJing  involved,  are  it^ms 
that  vary  with  every  enterprise.  Thus  no  fixed  price  may  be 
quoted  as  to  the  cost  of  a  given  building,  the  year  round  and 
in  all  localities.  The  reading  public  should,  therefore,  place 
no  faith  in  the  Iniiiding  figures  riuotcd  in  popular  magazines. 
The}'  are  lUL^ileading  in  the  extreme;  for  tliey  usually  represent 
either  a  set  of  conditions  which  have  not  been  fully  told  or 
which  are  so  unusual  that  they  may  not  be  duplicated.  In 
general  it  may  safety  i>e  said  that  a  modest  house  of  usual 
construction  may  l>e  built  for  considerably  less  money  by  rural 
than  by  (^ity  lafior. 

One  wa}^  of  estimating  the  probable  cost  of  a  new  house  ia 
to  compare  it  with  another  tlwelling  recently  built  in  the  local- 
ity. If  the  size  and  cost  of  the  house  already  built  are  known, 
one  may  compute  the  average  cost  a  cubic  foot  by  dividing 
the  total  cost  by  Ihe  number  of  cubic  fec»t  that  the  house  con- 
tains.  If  the  house  that  is  planned  is  to  be  of  better  grade 
than  tlie  one  figureil  on,  it  will  cost  more  a  cubic  foot;  if  it  is 
simpler,  it  will  cost  less,  A  rough  estimate  may  thus  l)c  reached 
l>efore  the  work  is  undertaken  or  is  figural  out  by  the  con- 
tractor. 

With  present  standardB  of  building  it  is  Ukely  that  in  no 
locality  can  a  house  witli  modern  improvements  l>e  erected  for 
less  itian  sixtt^^n  cents  a  cubic  fcKJt,  and  that  a  modest  house 
need  not  exceed  twenty-four  cents  a  cubic  foot  unless  fireproof 
construction  is  used.  An  average  cost  of  about  eighteen  centa 
a  cubic  foot  is  probably  fair  for  most  count  r>'  tlistricts. 

Much  has  l)een  said  and  written  about  the  present  high  cost 
of  tiuilding.  It  is  true  that  a  house  of  a  given  size  to-day  often 
costs  twice  as  much  as  one  of  the  same  size  would  have  cost 
twenty-five  years  ago;  but  this  advance  is  due  not  alone  to 
the  increas<*d  cost  of  lalxjr  and  material,  but  also  to  similar 
t^'pes  of  dwellings  not  Imnn  comparetL  A  house  equipped  with 
heat,  running  water»  hardwood  floors,  many  closets,  and  fre- 
quently with  electric  light  and  built-in  furniture  Is  com* 
pared  with  a  mere  weather-proof  structure  built  with  single 


I 
I 


THE  aMODERN  house 


27 


floors,  no  closets,  and  few  or  no  niOLlern  improvements.  Many. 
more  trades  and  much  more  equit>fnenl  than  formerly  now 
go  into  the  building:  of  a  comfortable  house.  It  is  the  amomifc 
and  the  kind  of  equipment  that  increases  the  cost;  a  house 
30  by  40  feet  may  be  made  to  cost  S3,(KK)  or  510,000,  according 
to  the  beauty  and  finish  of  interior  woodwork,  floors,  and 
walls,  the  amount  of  plumljing,  the  number  and  kind  of  fixtures 
selected,  or  the  kind  of  heating  plant  installed, 

SUGGESTIONS   POK  MAKING   ALTERATIONS 

Any  person  who  expects  to  make  alterations  in  a  liouse 
should  begin  to  ponder  improvements  a  !ong  time  in  advance- 
The  first  step  should  l>e  an  accurately  measured  reconl  of  the 
present  floor  plans,  drawn  at  a  scale  of  one-c]uarter  inch  to  the 
foot.  The  exact  size  and  position  of  walls,  openings,  closets, 
chinxne>*H,  or  other  existing  features  should  be  located  on  these 
drawings,  which  may  then  be  studied  by  comparing  them 
with  other  good  plans  found  in  books  antl  magasiines.  Tissue 
paper  or  tracing  paper  may  then  be  placed  over  the  drawings 
and  alteration  sketches  freely  made.  A  tlozen  arrangements 
may  thus  be  tried  on  paper,  hung  on  the  wall,  and  considered 
at  leisure.  These  plans  sliould  be  supplemented  by  a  building- 
book  in  which  one  may  keep  measurements,  written  data,  and 
new  ideas  as  they  occur.  In  this  book,  clippings  may  be  [tasted 
and  sketches  may  be  freely  made.  These  plans  and  this  book 
correspond  in  a  rude  way  to  the  architect's  drawings  and 
specifications,  and  will  serve  to  crystallize  the  alterations  into 
definite  form. 

Generations  of  l>uilding  experience  have  shown  that  suc- 
cessful results  must  be  based  on  definite  instructions.  No 
man's  memory  should  Ije  trusted  for  measurements  or  other 
information,  and  verbal  directions  should  not  be  given  to 
workmen.  Building  operations  are  exceedingly  definite;  walls 
and  opc*nings  when  in  place  cannot  be  moved  one  inch  in  order 
to  suit  a  piece  of  furniture  or  to  make  way  for  an  altered  notion* 
All  these  experimental  ideas  should  be  worked  out  on  paper. 

As  the  owner  studies  over  alteration  problems,  the  best 


28 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


/»■ 


arrangeiiient  will  at  lenpt^i  tako  sfmpe  in  his  own  minti. 
intelligible  home-made  drawitijj;  and  an  explieit  written  list  of 
ht8  requirements  may  then  l>e  put  in  shape,  so  that  tlie  ear- 
penter  or  eontmeror  can  make  a  fairfy  accurate  estimate  of  I 
the  cost  before  work  Ls  l>eg;un.     In  order  to  obtain  the  Ixist  ■ 
results,  the  owner  should  read  up,  in  reliable  books^  such  sub- 
jeets  as  waterworks  and  heating  systems  and  should  freely  M 
investigate  eafitlogues  of  equipment,  | 

When  the  contemplated  alterations  arc  extensive  and  there- 
fore costly,  or  when  a  new  lioiise  nmst  be  built,  the  work  should 
by  all  means  l>e  turned  over  to  a  good  iirehiteet.  Forceful 
arrangement  and  good  design  require  trained  experience;  an 
attempt  to  get  along  without  such  professional  help  is  false 
economy.  It  is  the  architect's  daily  business  to  put  building  ■ 
requirements  into  buiklable  shape.  Practical  construction 
is  the  basis  of  his  doiign.  Moreover,  he  is  acquainted  with 
all  the  Bhort  cuts  wliereby  efficient  results  may  be  obtatDed 
quickly  and  permanently. 

Referexcks 

King,  F.  H.    Ventilation  for  Eh*'ellin(?:s,  Rural  Schools,  and  Stables. 

Lynde,  Carieton.    Home  Waterworks. 

Putnaii^  X.  W.    The  GaiMjline  Enpjine  on  the  Farm, 

Rol>erl8,  Isjmc  Philli|)a,    The  FarmsUyid, 

SchneidtT,  N.  H.    Electric  Light  for  the  Farm, 

Jr^tifkley,  Ciustav.    Craftsman  Ilotnc?!, 

\\lute,  Charles  K.,  Jr.    Succetssful  Uousea  and  How  to  Build  Them. 


CHAPTER  II 
HOME  FURNISHING 

By  Annette  J.  Warner 

The  home  represents  the  most  intimate  environment  of 
the  indivkiuaL  No  mattnr  how  iiriconseious  of  their  sarround- 
injps  persons  may  seisin,  their  tastes  ami  ideas  arc  affected  by 
the  things  with  \^'hich  they  live  eontinually.  Such  being  the 
caae,  the  woman  who  makes  it  her  task  to  provide  for  her 
fanailj'  signifieant  surroyndiri|i;s,  tliereby  adds  to  the  ordinary 
experiences  of  hfe  a  real  factor  of  education  and  enjoyment. 

Any  rules  or  discussion  on  furnishing  the  home  must  neces- 
sarily be  very  general,  and  cannot  be  conclusiv^e  in  deciding 
individual  problems.  The  most  that  can  be  done  is  to  review 
such  fc^atures  and  considerations  as  enter  into  all  questions 
of  home  furnishing,  hoping  therelvy  to  point  the  way  to  the 
solution  of  the  individual  problem. 

Even  in  the  hands  of  an  experienced  person,  matters  of  home 
furnishing  and  of  rlcroration  require  a  slow  and  thoughtful 
study*  There  are  no  shortcuts.  No  matter  how  long  it  takes 
to  make  a  decision  in  furnishing,  the  time  spent  in  so  doing 
is  insignificant  when  compared  to  the  duration  of  the  result. 
On  account  of  this  pernmnenco  of  furnishings,  also,  an  in- 
terior cannot  afford  to  record  passing  fads,  shams  and  imi- 
tations, Init  should  rather  express  lasting,  aincerc,  and  dignified 
ideals. 

The  furnishings  of  the  house  should  be  consistent  in  character 
with  the  structural  interior.  Beamed  ceilings,  rough  plaster 
walls,  and  sturdy  woodwork  are  appropriate  in  a  home  of  the 
CVaftsman  style.  Such  an  interior  would  be  a  suitable  back- 
ground for  mission  furniture;  it  would  be  incongruous  in  a  hoa«M2 
of  Colonial  style,  or  as  a  setting  for  mahogany  furniture, 

29 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

The  house  should  appear  as  though  it  were  planned  through- 
out by  one  pei^son  for  one  lcK*aiity»  one  family,  one  pui-se.  If 
the  house  is  in  a  southern  latitude,  ronifort  h  expressed  by 
large  spaces,  long  vistas,  shadows,  cool  colors,  light  drapery, 
few  and  light-weight  rugs  and  hght  furniture.  If  the  house 
is  in  a  northern  eliniatc  or  is  used  chiefly  in  winter,  comfort  is 
expressed  l^y  a  large  fireplace,  wanu  colorings,  large  rugs, 
heavier  and  richer  drai>er>%  and  some  uphoLsterefl  furnitun*. 
In  the  ciiy  house,  space  aral  hght  are  luxuries  that  must  bo 
conserved  by  ever^--  possii>le  means.  In  the  country  there  are 
fewer  limitations  of  tliis  sort,  !>ut  there  are  varying  conditiona 
in  the  environment  of  country'  houses  that  should  influence  their 
treatment. 

In  general,  simphcity  of  treatment  in  finish  and  furnishing 
preserves  t  lie  dignity  of  the  house  and  is  always  in  good  tast^e* 
An  interior  should  also  l>e  fitted  to  its  use  in  every  part,  should 
appear  consistent,  genuine,  and  hannonious  throughout.  The 
environment  can  thus  be  made  to  t>T>ify  the  qualities  to  which 
a  family  aspires* 


I 
I 


4 


STBUCTUBAl.  CONSIDERATION   OF  ROOMS 

Size 

The  o!d  ideal  for  a  room  was  the  largest,  **squarest"  room 
possible  for  every  use — for  a  family  room,  bedroom,  or  kitchen.  ■ 

Changed  conditions  of  living  nnrf  t  he  increased  cost  of  labor  and 
Imilding  material  have  reduced  the  size  of  tlie  modern  house. 
According  to  the  varie*:!  nature  of  their  use,  it  is  evident  that 
rooms  should  var^'  in  size  and  in  shape. 


tiving-room. 

The  hving-room  for  the  family  should  be  the  largest  room  in 
the  house,  since  it  serves  a  greater  variety  of  purposes  and  a 
larger  number  of  persons  than  any  other  j-oom.  The  restful 
effect  of  an  appearance  of  ample  space  is  one  of  its  charms. 
Sacrifice  of  spaciousness  in  other  parts  of  the  house  may  w^ell 
be  made  in  order  to  provide  a  spacious  living-room.  The  actual 
size  for  a  Hving-room  is  a  matter  allowing  great  variationj  but 


HOME  FURNISHING 


31 


I 


rooms  var>4ng  from  14  to  16  feet  in  width  and  from  18  to  24 
feet  in  length  suggest  good  sizes. 

Dtning-rooni, 

The  dining-room  ia  also  a  gathering  place  for  all  the  members 
of  the  family.  It,  however,  has  but  one  center  and  serves  only 
one  funetion.  It  may,  therefore,  well  be  consideralfly  wraallcr 
than  the  living-room.  For  the  eomfortahle  ^erv^ing  of  the 
meals,  at  least  three  feet  should  be  allowed  betwet^n  the  edge  of 
the  table  aad  the  sideboard  or  any  other  furniture  in  the  room. 

Kitchen, 

The  kitchen  should  be  small  and  compact  in  arrangement 
and  should  not  contain  a  foot  of  unnecessary  space.  A  good 
•02e  for  a  kitchen  in  which  the  work  is  doue  by  one  person  is 
''estimated  to  be  from  100  to  150  square  feet  of  space  (page  102). 

Bedrooms, 

The  bedroom  of  the  modern  house  may  be  relatively  small 
because  the  convenience  of  built-in  closets^  of  lighter  types  of 
furniture,  and  of  l>athroom8  makes  a  large  size  unnecessary. 
In  a  bedroom,  after  sufhcient  space  has  }>een  allowed  for  pur- 
poses of  ventilation,  sleeping,  dressing,  and  storage  of  clothes, 
convenience  is  better  served  by  compactness  than  by  size. 

Halh. 

Halls  are  used  to  give  direct  access  to  all  parts  of  tlie  house. 
After  this  purpose  ha,s  been  accomplislKHl,  space  may  appro- 
priately be  economized  here  in  a  home  of  moderate  size. 

Shape  and  proportitm 
Simple  rectangular  shapes  for  rooms  are  the  natural  outcome 
of  building  conditions.  Any  extension  or  projection  should  be  a 
coherent  structural  feature  and  should  be  used  only  to  satisfy 
a  need  in  the  function  of  the  room,  A  chiinney  seat,  a  recess 
necessitated  by  a  dormer  window,  an  ingle  nook  when  it  works 
out  naturally  on  p!an,  are  often  i-easonabte  features,  A  bay- 
window  built  to  add  space  or  to  improve  the  ligliting  conditions 
erf  a  room,  if  well  designed  may  furnish  an  interesting  decorative 


32 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME~MAKIXG 


Fig.  13,— a  typical  low  room  in  an  oUl-fueliioniHl  rr,M*ijf**,  fcihowing  hnw  cvea  » 
good  horisrmtal  arrariKonieut  o!  liiips  and  /urniahiugtt  dooreaaca  the  ap- 
paront  hdsht  of  the  ruom. 


Flo.  14. — ^The  game  type  of  low  room  m  in  Fi«*  13.  Bb<y«^Mi!  how  a  wrtkol  «jv 
rangt-mcnt  of  litiea  and  fumkhinga  tends  to  increiise  the  apparent  heifttttj 


HOME  FURNISHING 


33 


feature  both  inside  and  outside  the  house.  No  excrescences  or 
protuberances  should  be  built  merely  for  the  sake  of  original 
or  ornate  effect. 

An  oblong  is  in  general  a  more  pleasing  shape  for  a  room  than 
IF  a  square.  A  plea^sing  relation  between  the  three  dimensions — 
]enj?th,  breadth,  and  heij^ht — t^liould  if  pos^silile  be  maintained. 
A  room  that  is  very  long  is  not  easily  adapted  to  general  use:^ 
ajkI  is  lacking  in  an  effect  of  intimacy.  A  room  that  is  too  high 
is  wasteful  of  unused  space,  is  hard  to  heat,  and  is  unfriendly 
in  appearance.  In  a  room  iu  which  all  the  iJiniensions  are  equal 
or  nearly  equal,  the  shape  is  obvious  at  once;  nothing  is  left 
to  the  imagination,  and  the  result  is  stupid  and  uninteresting; 
However,  a  square  may  sometimes  be  the  most  convenient  and 
economical  shape  for  a  room.  For  a  small  tUning-ro<:>m  with  a 
square  or  round  dining  table,  a  square  may  be  both  a  eonven* 
lent  *uid  fi  fitting  shape.  An  oblong  in  which  one  dimension  m 
perceptibly  longer  Is  much  more  pleasing  than  one  in  which 
there  is  a  doubt  as  to  comparative  dimensions.  An  excellent 
proportion  for  an  average  room  is  one  in  which  the  width  is 
more  than  half  and  less  than  two-thirds  the  length. 

In  a  house  of  moderate  cost  and  size,  it  is  not  always  possible 
to  plan  so  that  eacli  room  is  of  id**al  proportion.  Persons  mast 
often  live  in  homes  wliicfi  tliey  themselves  have  not  Iniilt.  In 
such  causes  there  are  many  devices  by  which  the  apparent  pro- 
portion may  be  improved, 

DetTicesfor  changing  apparent  proportion  (Figs.  13-16). 

The  eye  naturally  tends  to  follow  any  continuous  line.  By 
establishing  linejs  in  any  particular  direction,  therefore,  that 
direction  is  emphasized  at  the  expense  of  the  others. 

Rooms  that  are  too  high  may  l)e  made  to  appear  lower  by 
introducing  strong  honzontal  lines,  for  example: 

L  By  bringing  the  ceiling  color  down  on  the  side  wall.  This 
is  successful  only  when  the  ceiling  color  is  Imppily  related  in  hue 
and  value  to  the  side  walL  and  w^hen  its  wiilth  corresponds  to 
the  width  of  a  moderate  border  10  in  Acs  or  12  inches,  in  a 
nxim  of  ordinary  dijnensions,  say  14  feet  by  16  feet  by  9  feet. 


34 


A  MAWAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


1 


Fio.  15.— A  taJl  mom  of  tho  Ititr  niaetc<?nth  c'pntur>'  type  showinir  o  plncitm  of 
picturo  nioidtJiK  *4r>iJ  a  selection  and  arningfraeril  ui  fiiri)i£ihirif(»  Uml  trnd 
to  decmist'  the  tifumfT'tit  height  rif  the  nwrn.  Witll  eoverinifM  of  such  dit-, 
nififHl  pattern  mid  htLniitJiiiuuA  color  skA  are  ahowii  in  Ptnte  V«  may  intni 
limo«  be  uaed  above  the  Dioldins  with  decorative  effect.  Notc»  the  rt^latioil^ 
ol  the  ahapes  of  the  pictures  to  the  spacxs. 


1 


F\Q,  10. — A  typical  modern  tivmg-room  In  which  a  group  of  casements  ftod 
built-in  neat  dominate  the  fumiahiiig  effect. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


36 


2.  By  using  a  molding  at  the  intersection  of  side  wall  and 
ceiling,  and  by  making  the  picture-molding  continuous  with  the 
top  of  doors  or  windows. 

3.  By  a  wainscot  or  dado^  the  top  of  which  is  on  a  level  with 
the  window-sills. 

4.  By  using  a  valance  in  the  window  drapery,  if  this  is  con- 
sistent with  the  style  of  the  room  and  the  othcB  furnishings, 
and  by  hanging  all  draperies  so  that  the  width  of  the  opening 
is  emphasized. 

5.  By  using  furniture  in  which  the  horizontal  lines  dom- 
inate, such  as  long  low  bookcases,  davenports,  sideboards,  or 
tables. 

6*  By  using  pictures  which  are  horiisontal  oblongs  in  shape, 
or  by  grouping  several  smaller  pictures  so  that  either  the  lower 
or  uppt»r  edges  of  their  frames  will  estai>lish  cotitinuous  horizon- 
tal lines. 

Rooms  that  are  too  low  may  Im  made  to  appear  higher  by 
emphasinng  the  vertical  lines,  for  example: 

1.  By  placing  the  picture-molding  at  the  ceiling,  lea\dng  the 
sidewall  undivided, 

2.  By  using  vertically  striped  wall  paper.  Stripes  should 
always  be  of  nearly  the  same  color  or  value  in  order  to  be  un- 
obtrusive. 

3.  By  using  as  long  draperies  as  are  consistent  with  the  use 
and  structure  of  tlie  room,  and  by  hanging  these  in  straight 
folds  and  so  arranging  them  as  to  make  the  openings  high  and 
narrow  in  effect. 

4.  By  the  use  of  tall  and  narrow  bookshelves,  cabinets,  and 
other  furniture. 

5.  By  the  use  of  pictures  that  are  vertical  oblongs,  or  by 
grouping  the  pictures  with  each  other  or  with  pieces  of  furniture 
so  that  the  vertical  is  emphasized. 

In  a  room  that  is  square  or  is  too  short  an  oblong,  emphasis 
may  be  given  to  one  dini(^nsion,  for  example: 

1.  By  ofx'ning  up  a  vista  through  a  door  or  wimlow,  or  by 
planning  interesting  features  in  tlie  fornishings  in  order  to 
emphasis^e  the  long  axis  of  the  room.    A  mirror  may  perform 


Irrrl    lilt    TT 

pCMfflttri 


ppor  Bfr 


liowrs  i»  rt'Iali^jn  io  the  isdjomiciji:  wall  npftce.    First  n>onp:  A  dn^le 

■lU}  of  B  abort  wttl]:  a  Amoil  dotjbli>»huiiR  witiduv  ol  twld  de«i£&;  a 

!  winr|i-r«'  wt^h  j,»li"x^in»r  w:ifl  spnrr.  jirrMiTid  it;  nn  intereatliu:  vul 

■      .  .     :   r    ,iv  wallr— 

rth 
I   foi 
irit«refltiti 

iifNsfTit  Mf  I'riTii'h  Miruioirit.     Th 
ir-  pru|iurlu>ti  of   the  room  and  th 


HOME  FURNISHING 


87 


a  valuable  office  in  adding  to  the  appai-ent  k'ngth  of  a  room. 
Tbc  French  have  understood  this  and  have  iiKTCiu^ed  the  ap- 
parent size  of  dance-hall  and  dining-room  i>y  the  skillful  use 
of  many  mirrors. 

2.  By  pliacing  the  long  dimension  of  a  rug  in  the  direction 
to  be  emphasized.  If  the  room  is  sufficiently  large  and  the 
o(her  conditions  warrant  it,  two  narrow  rugs  so  placed  as  to 
emphasize  the  length  of  the  room  may  be  UBcd. 

3,  By  placing  the  long  pieces  of  furniture  in  the  direc- 
tion to  be  emphasised*  Seats  or  slielves  may  sometimes  be 
built  in. 

In  rooms  that  are  too  long,  the  apparent  width  should  be 
increased  and  the  apparent  length  diminishctl  by  every  ileviee 
posHble,  for  example: 

1.  By  placing  openings  or  important  structural  fratiu'es 
centrally  on  the  long  sides,  thus  breaking  the  length  of  tlie 
room  into  two  or  more  furnisliing  centei's. 

2.  By  using  more*  than  one  rug,  placed  with  the  long  edges 
parallel  to  the  short  side  of  the  room,  in  order  to  break  up  the 
epaee  and  establish  lines  across  the  room. 

3.  By  placiiig  the  long  pieces  of  furniture  or  by  grouping 
furniture  so  that  the  width  rather  than  the  length  of  the  room 
is  emphasized. 

Loc^ilion  of  tmndoum  and  doors  (Figs.  17,  18), 

The  location,  style,  and  proportion  of  windows  and  doors 
are  slnictiiral  considerations  that  affect  eveiy  interior.  The 
amount  and  shapes  of  the  remaining  wall  spaces  after  windows 
and  doors  have  been  placed  define  the  possil)ilitics  of  the  fur- 
ri  -^lienie.     It  is,  therefore,  important  U>  arrange  windows 

;  .  .  -  in  such  a  way  as  to  leave  usaltle  wall  spaces.  Tht^e 
spaces  should  be  so  pleamng  in  sliape  and  i>roportion  that 
the  bare  room  is  in  itself  a  design.  Many  <loors  in  a  room 
an  evidence  of  poor  planning.  While  there  is  no  rule 
about  windows,  an  amount  of  window  area  equal  to  about 
one-fourth  the  Hoor  area  will  in  general  be  found  a  reasonable 
guide. 


^ 


I 


38 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


f 

IW 

-L   ^. 

"  r  Ir " 

;           r 

-iir III — 

1 

_1|! 

«' 

1 

m  ri— i— 1 

MINI 
M    M    M 

M  1  1  1  1 
11  II  1  1 

1  1  1   II   1 

f 1 r— T 1— ^ 

I 


E 


m 


Fio.  18, — A-B:  Two  types  of  bay  windows.  C:  A  wf*ll-plaeed  group  of  high 
casements.  D-I :  A  study  of  six  windows  ahowing  how  the  uppeanuice  of 
the  window  is  affected  by  the  diviaion  of  the  gla 


HOME  FURNISHING 


m 


Struclu  rat  surfaces , 
The  structural  surfaces  of  the  room  are  walls,  ceiliiig>  and 

QOOT, 

Walk  include  plaster  walls,  windows,  doors,  and  trim,  i 

Plaster  walls. 

The  usual  finish  for  the  walls  of  a  dwelling  is  plaster.  Plaster 
may  be  rough  or  smooth.  It  may  l>e  left  in  the  natural  color, 
painted,  or  papered 

L  Rough  plaster:  The  irregularities  in  rough,  or  sand-finished, 
plaster  produce  an  effect  of  texture  that  makes  such  a  wall 
an  attractive  background.  The  natural  color  of  rougli  plaster 
varies  according  to  the  color  of  the  sand  used  in  mixing  it. 
Sometimes  it  is  a  pm*e  gray,  sometimes  it  is  tinged  with  soft 
tones  of  warm  color.  Powdered  color  may  be  mixed  with  the 
plaster  when  it  is  wet,  if  the  mason  Ls  sufficic^ntly  experienced 
to  handle  it.  Rough  plaster  should  he  applied  by  a  skillful 
workman  in  order  to  produce  a  imifonn  effect.  Rough  plaster 
is  rather  harsh  in  texture  and  is  not  suitable  in  all  rooms  or 
with  all  woods.  It  is  more  akin  to  har-d  woods  like  oak,  waxed 
or  stained,  than  to  mahogany  or  satinwood  or  pairitetl  wooits. 
It  is  incongruous  with  delicate  or  ver>^  luxurious  hangings. 
It  is  better  in  family  rooms  than  in  lied  rooms  or  small  rooms 
in  which  hands  come  often  in  contact  with  the  walk  If  rough 
plaster  is  spotted  or  tliscolored;  it  is  not  so  easy  to  clean  as 
smooth  plaster.  If  the  discoloration  is  only  on  the  suiface, 
it  may  be  removed  by  pumice  stone. 

If  it  is  desired  to  cliange  the  color  of  rough  plastered  walls, 
oil  paint  is  a  ver>'  good  merlium;  a  coat  of  gkie-size  applied 
hefort*  the  paint  will  facilitate  the  work  anil  will  economize 
the  amount  of  paint. 

2.  Smooth  plaster:  Walls  finisbed  in  smooth  plaster  present 
an  even  flat  surface,  not  so  interesting  iis  the  rough  plaster, 
but  with  many  advantages.  It  is  easier  to  apply  and  is  easily 
cleaned.  Sniooth  plaster  should  be  painted  or  papered,  since 
its  glaring  white  surface  is  a  trj'ing  element  in  almost  any 
color  scheme. 


40 


.1    MAXIWL  OF  HOME-^fAKING 


3.  Smooth  phii^tor  paint  pel  (oil  rolor  or  water  tH>lor):  Paitu 
ha8  an  advaiUage  uvrr  ijapor  in  that  any  subtiety  of  tint  or 
tone  may  hi*  olitiiiiit'*!  ihnmgfi  skillful  mixing.  In  ^«*ni'rtil,  in 
the  use  of  house  paint,  wliite  will  lighten  any  eolor  and  black 
will  darken  any  color;  ijut  in  the  cajse  of  the  yellows,  8in<!e  blaek 
paint  tends  to  develop  green  .shades  in  them,  dark  brown  paint 
should  be  sul)8tituted  for  the  black.  Oil  color  is  more  durable 
than  water  cokir.  A!thoU|i;h  oil  paint  is  niore  expensive  in  the 
lieginning  than  water  color,  it  is  more  economical  in  the  end 
for  use  in  rooms  that  are  constantly  occapie«I,  or  on  parts  of 
walls  that  are  Hubject  to  the  frequent  contact  of  hands  or  fur- 
niture, such  a8  schoolrooms,  nurseries,  kitchens,  or  corridors. 

Oil  color  sometimes  has  a  disagreeai>le  shine.  This  may  bo 
avoi(ied  by  addini?  torpentine  or  by  flat  finishing  (|)ouncinK 
with  a  tiroad  flat  bristle  Ivrush).  Oil  colors  may  Ik*  obtained 
alieady  mixcH:!,  but  they  frequently  var>"  frejm  sample.  A 
better  plan  is  to  buy  the  inp:redien(s  and  have  them  mbcccl 
only  a  short  time  before  using.  DilTcreni  surfaces  require 
different  proportions  of  paint,  oil,  turpentine,  and  the  like. 
An  even  tone  throughout  the  room  is  always  safe,  but  a  very 
attractive  effect  may  l>e  olitaineil  Ijy  an  uneven  tone.  For 
example,  the  walls  might  l>e  painteii  a  gray  l»lue  and  stippleii 
with  a  gray  green.  Such  treatment  jjroiluc^t^s  an  effect  of  at- 
mospiiere  suggesting  space*  It  should  never  be  attempted 
except  b}'  an  experienced  painter*  Oil  color  is  easily  cleaned 
by  washing  with  S(«ap  and  water. 

Water  color,  or  calcimine,  has  the  advantage  of  being  in- 
expensive, and  less  skill  is  required  in  applying  it.  Water 
color  may  be  applied  over  other  surfaces,  such  a-s  paper,  beaver- 
board,  or  calchnine,  1>ut  wall  paper  should  not  be  put  on  over 
calcimine  as  it  i.s  likely  to  strip  t^ff.  Water  color  walls  carmot 
be  washe^l  but  can  be  easily  freshenetl  by  the  application  of  a 
set^ond  coat.  Water  color  is  the  most  common  treatment  for 
ceilings  even  though  the  side  walls  may  Ije  painteit  or  papea^d. 

4.  PapiT  or  textilt»s;  ^Smooth  ptasten^  walls  are  often  cov- 
ered with  pajx'r  or  a  textile;  this  treatment  is  effective  in  mai^ 
funiishing  schemes  and  is  especially  adaptable  in  old  houses. 


I 


nO.\fE  FURNISHING 


Wainscats, 

Wainscoting  treatments  former!  hy  chair-rail  or  paneling 
of  various  heighti=!  suggest  a  variety  of  decorative  effects  which 
are  appropriate  for  important  roorns^  «uch  as  living-room, 
dining-room,  and  halK  A  paneltKl  treatment  of  wood  or  of 
moldings  and  plaster  is  dignified  and  effective,  provided  the 
wall  and  window  spaces  will  accommodate  themselves  to  such 
an  arrangement.  Obviously,  panelled  treatments  can  be 
studied  only  in  relation  to  the  individual  room. 

Trim  of  walls. 

The  trim  of  the  room  may  be  thought  of  as  part  of  the  wall 
or  as  a  frame  for  an  opening.  If  the  room  is  small  or  the  open- 
ings many  and  not  well  place^d,  the  trim  should  he  siil>ordinated 
to  the  wall  treatment.  But  if  the  room  is  of  good  size  and  the 
windows  and  doors  are  well  proportioned  and  well  plaeetli 
the  trim  will  bear  more  emphasis. 

Except  in  fireproof  houses,  a  certain  amount  of  wooilwork 
is  needed  to  cover  the  bony  joints  of  const  ruction  and  to  com- 
plete the  finish  of  the  room.  The  same  kind  of  woo^l  and  thf3 
game  finish  should  be  used  throughout  the  room,  with  the 
possible  exception  of  the  floor.  Since  the  woodwork  furnishes 
both  a  structural  and  a  decorative  clement  in  the  nmrn^  its 
choice  should  be  consider<:M:l  from  both  standpoints.  The  trim 
covering  the  joints  and  framing  doors  and  windows,  should 
h^  wide  enough  to  look  adequate  for  this  service,  but  not  so 
heavy  nor  so  ornate  as  to  be  obtrusive  in  the  part  it  plays  in 
the  Imckground  of  the  room.  A  good  witlth  for  the  trim  for 
the  openings  in  average  rooms  is  l>etween  33  2  ^rid  5  incln^. 
Hard  woods  finished  to  show  their  character  are  excellent  if 
the  grain  is  not  too  conspicuous].  Quartered  oak  with  its  modest 
grain  and  possibihtiesof  finish  is  very  fitting  for  the  woodwork 
of  a  room  in  which  oak  furniture  is  to  be  used. 

Other  woods,  such  as  hard  pine  and  cypress,  are  sitsceptible 
to  treatment  that  makes  them  veiy  efTective.  Woods  of  an 
inconspicuous  gmin,  or  cut  so  that  tlie  grain  does  not  obtrude 
it.si»lf^  should  be  chosen  for  trim.    A  wood  with  a  bold  swirling 


ttj^mt 


42 


A   MANUAL  OF  FIOME-MAKING 


^ain  or  with  strong  contrasts  of  li^ht  and  dark  i»  a  poor  choice 
for  interior  work,  for  it  is  too  restless  and  insistent  to  take  its 
place  quietly  in  any  det"0i'ati%'e  scheme.  Fortunately,  the  item 
of  expense  is  a  protection  against  the  use  of  woods  so  aggres- 
sive in  color  as  niahogany,  curly  birch,  and  the  like.  Such 
woods  should  l>e  reserved  for  furnitore. 

The  woodwork  should  play  a  definite  part  in  the  decorative 
scheme  of  the  room,  hanntjnizinp;  with  the  walls  Ixith  in  char- 
acter and  color.  If  the  harmony  cannot  l>e  secured  by  tran?*- 
parent  stains,  the  woodwork  should  be  painted.  In  fact^  in 
many  old  or  ready-ni:wle  houses,  paint  for  wootlwork  is  the 
only  means  of  seeurinp;  a  hnrnionious  inttTior. 

Filler,  stain,  tiun  shellac,  and  wax  ;ire  eommonly  used  to  se- 
cure the  transparent  finish  desirable  for  hard  woods,  Wood« 
with  large  or  open  grain,  sueh  as  oak,  chestnut,  c>7>rcss,  and 
pine,  require  a  tiller  to  make  a  smooth  even  surface.  This  flllir 
may  l)e  kept  the  same  color  n.-^  ttie  wcmj^I,  or  it  may  be  stained 
darker^  or  a  very  light  whitish  tiller  may  Ix?  used.  The  effect 
of  this  filler  is  to  tone,  to  modify,  or  io  emphasize  the  natural 
markings  of  the  woml.  Woods  with  a  close  inconspicuous  grain, 
such  as  maple  and  fjirch,  do  not  rcrpiire  a  filler,  but  can  \ye 
toned  by  staining.  Wax  is  a  more?  pleasing  finish  for  hardwoods 
than  is  varnish,  which  should  be  usetl  only  on  bathroom  floors 
or  other  places  where  durability  is  pcrhaj^  more  important 
than  appearance.  The  soft  dull  finish  of  a  waxed  surface  is  more 
appropriate  to  wood  than  the  glaring  shiny  finish  of  varnish. 

Paint  is  an  opaque  finish  used  to  cover  w(XKk  having  an  im- 
pleasant  or  no  visible  grain.  Such  woods  as  soft  pine,  white 
wood,  and  cypress  are  gooci  foundations  for  painted  woodwork. 
By  means  of  paint,  any  woodwork  can  l)e  adjusted  in  color  to 
its  surroundings.  This  liexibihty  of  paint  in  relation  to  color 
schemes  is  a  strong  reeommendat  ion  in  its  favor  for  both  old  and 
new  work  and  for  all  t^^ies  of  rooms. 

Doors. 

Doors  of  good  pattern  in  various  wootls  may  l)e  obtained 
ready-made  in  standard  sizes.    They  should  be  of  the  same  gen- 


I 

I 


HOME  FURNISHING 


'ta\  finish  as  the  trim  and  other  woodwork.  Doors  of  uniforn 
liright,  on  each  floor  contribute  to  unity  of  effect.  The  widtt 
may  be  varied  far  eonvenieoce. 

Mantelpieces i  cornices ^  and  picture-moldings. 

Any  wood  used  in  connect  ion  with  such  features  as  fireplaces 
should  l>e  conHiatcnt  in  etiaracter  and  finish  with  the  other 
trim  of  the  room.  The  mantel  should  be  planned  with  and  for 
the  room,  not  purehiist^d  ready-made  and  graftcil  upon  it*  Ltke- 
\y\se  any  tile  or  brick  farinas  used  in  tlie  fireplace  should  bar- 
nM>nize  in  texture  and  <'o!or  witb  the  entire  decorative  Mchenie. 

A  cornice  of  wood  like  the  trim  may  mark  the  intersection 
of  ceiling  and  side  w^all  and  shoukl  of  course  be  finished  like  the 
other  woodwork.  A  picture-molding  marking:  this  intersection 
is  an  effective  finish  for  low  rooms  or  those  of  ordinary  height. 
A  picture-molding  so  placed  should  be  heavier  than  one  loweiJ 
on  the  wall  In  some  cases,  a  second  molding  may  !ie  used  on' 
the  wall  some  distance  lielow  t!ie  one  at  the  ceiling.  Tliis  second 
molding  then  become*s  the  picture-rail. 


Ceiling. 

The  treatment  of  the  ceilinp?  should  harmonize  with  the 
finifih  of  the  walls  and  woodwork,  Ordinarily  the  ceilings  in 
dwellinja:s  are  finished  with  plaster.  This  lends  itself  through 
the  use  of  calcimine  (water  color  paints),  to  any  color  scheme. 
Paper  is  a  leas  desirable  finish  for  eeilings.  If  it  must  be  used,  as 
sometimes  happens  in  old  houses  where  the  ceiling  has  cracked 
or  become  discolor€*d,  a  phiin  tone  slioukl  be  chosen.  If  a 
ceiling  is  cracked,  canvas  or  burlap  may  be  put  over  the  ol 
plaster  and  then  paint  or  calcimine  applied  to  it. 

Beamed  ceilings  produce  an  interesting  structural  and  dec- 
orative effect.  The  lieams  should  preferafily  be  finished  like 
the  other  w^oodwork  in  the  rm>m.  If  peculiar  problems  are 
presented  by  the  WTiodwork,  the  finish  of  the  beams  may  Ijc 
considered  only  in  relation  to  the  ceihng.  Beamed  ceilings  are 
often  found  in  houses  of  early  colonial  architecture.  They  are 
also  a  feature  of  the  new  Craftsman  houses.    In  the  first  case 


a 

1 


44 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


I 
I 


they  would  usually  \yQ  painted^  nineo  most  of  the  woodwork  Is 
painted;  in  the  latter,  they  would  be  finished  like  the  oak  or 
similar  woods  gemerally  used. 

C'eilinj^s  of  wood,  except  in  stieathed  or  paneled  rooiQs^ 
are  likely  to  look  heavy  and  oppressive.  In  summer  cotta|i^ 
aiid  in  some  parts  of  the  country,  rooms  sheathed  and  ceiled 
in  yellow  pine  or  cypress  are  often  finishtHl  in  the  natural  color 
and  varnished.  Paint  is  the  only  antidote  and  should  be  usi**! 
on  the  ceiling  at  least,  after  '"cutting"  the  varnish.  Wliito 
metal  ceilings  are  in  line  with  the  progress  toward  fireproof 
construction.  They  cannot  as  yet  be  obtained  in  pleasing  pat- 
tern except  for  very  large  rooms,  and  even  here  their  construc- 
tion is  unpleasantly  oljinisive. 

Floors, 

Floors  are  made  to  l)e  walked  upon  and  are  subject  to  hard  I 
usjige.  They  should,  therefore,  he  durable.  Floors  cannot  l>e 
easily  rlianged;  therefore  they  should  be  permanent  in  material 
and  finish.  Since  they  contribute  to  the  color  scheme  of  thofl 
room*  they  should  be  finished  accordingly.  Floors  continuous 
in  ctjlor  as  far  a,s  the  eye  can  »ee  have  a  unifying  eilect.  WcmxI 
is  the  material  most  used  for  tlooi*s*  WtX)d  that  is  hard,  of  in- 
conspicuous grain,  and  resf>onsive  to  color  treatment  should  be 
chost^n.  Well  selected  oak  is  prol>al>ly  the  best.  Maple  and 
birdi  are  very  duralile,  but  light  in  color;  hard  pine  Is  also 
possible  and  relaf  ively  inexpenhive.  The  matter  of  color  and 
finish  can  l>e  rc^guluted  to  some  extent  to  suit  the  character  of 
wood  sclccteti  ajjd  the  color  scheme  of  the  room* 

Hardwootl  floors  should  in  general  l>e  finished  like  hardwood 
trim,  except  t hat  caution  sliould  be  ol>servc<l  in  attempting  dark  M 
stains,  Ijecau.^e  all  lioors  through  usage  tend  to  wear  back  to  fl 
the  natural  color  of  the  wood.    Since  all  wood  floors  t^nd  to 
darken  in  time,  the  rather  light  appearance  of  a  new^  floor  should 
l)e  endured  with  patience.    If  after  a  period  of  thne  the  tone 
of  the  floor  still  apix^ars  too  light,  it  is  easier  to  darken  it  sUghtly  M 
than  to  remove  a  dark  mussy  stain.    Furthermore,  rugs  can  m 
always  be  relied  on  to  remedy  the  color  effect  of  the  bare  floor. 


1 


HOME  FURNISHING 


45' 


Softwood  floors  of  pine*  sut'h  as  are  often  fonnrl  in  old  houses, 
can  be  tinished  by  filling  the  spaces  between  the  Ixjards  with 
either  a  standard  or  home-maile  crack-filler  and  then  applying; 
two  or  more  coats  of  good  liard  paint,  such  as  the  ordinar>^  deck 
paint.  Some  hoiLsekeepers  have  had  success  with  a  crack-filler 
made  of  flour  paste  intcj  whicli  a  pulp  of  damp  newspaper  ifiii 

iten.  Under  all  conditions,  however,  a  painted  floor  is  a 
ompromise  and  will  recjuire  frequent  renewals. 

COLOR 

Color  is  more  potent  in  ereatijig  the  atmosphere  of  a  house  or 
3m  than  is  any  other  influence.  IlarrnonioyH  coloi  wilt  cover 
a  multitude  of  sins  in  tlesi^n,  while  no  amount  of  good  design 
will  atone  for  discordant  color. 

Color  produces  a  distinct  reaction  on  the  human  system; 
is  cheering,  depressing,  irritating^  or  restful^  as  the  case  may 
It  is,  therefore,  of  primary  importance  to  understand  the , 
right  use  of  color  in  the  home.  Since  the  question  of  color  is 
ivolved  in  the  finish  of  walls  and  of  woodwork,  it  is  the  first 
etor  to  l>e  considered  in  the  treatment  of  an  interior. 
Color  has  tlirce  generally  recognizable  charact-eristics:  First, 
^at  quality  that  gives  it  its  general  or  popular  name  and  dis- 
ngui^hes  it  from  other  colors — as  red  from  green,  or  yellow- 
reds  from  purple-reds,  yellow-greens  from  l)lue-grt»ens,  and  the 
like.  This  quality  is  named  by  the  scientists,  hue.  Hues,  or 
colors^  may  in  general  be  classed  as  w^arra  or  cool.  Yellow, 
range,  red,  and  colors  strongly  tinged  with  the^e,  coonerted 
they  are  with  ideas  of  sun  anrl  fire  and  blood,  are  the  warm " 
colors.  Blue,  green,  and  violet,  and  eolcjrs  strongly  tinged  with 
these,  associated  in  thought  with  cold  and  distant  things  like 
ice,  the  sky,  the  wfKxls,  and  purple  hills,  are  the  coT>l  colors. 
A  second  characteristic  or  quahty  of  color  is  the  strength 
brilliancy,  termed  l>y  the  scientists,  chroma  or  intensity. 
By  this  quality,  a  strong  or  bright  color  is  distinguished  from 
soft,  dulled,  or  grayed  color,  as  the  red  in  the  upper  from 

red  in  the  under  side  of  an  autumn  leaf. 
The  third  characteristic  t)r  quality  is  that  which  distinguishes 


46  A   MANUAL  OF  IfOME-MAKlNG 


light,  from  dark  colors^  tcirnifd  by  the*  scientists,  value* 
popular  term  for  light  colors  is  tint;  for  dark  colors,  shade. 

Recognized  Influences  of  color 

Hue. 

Colors  in  which  there  is  a  suggestion  of  yellow  or  orange  or 
red,  the  wann  enlors,  such  as  tones  of  tan  or  bufif  or  old  gold 
or  lirown  or  yellow-green,  or  the  "warm  grays,"  such  as  taupe 
or  **sand'*  or  **mode'*  colors,  are  likely  to  produce  a  warmth 
of  atmosphere  that  makes  tlieni  in  general  agreeable  to  live 
with.  These  colors  are  lik(*ly  also  to  liarmonize  with  tlie  wood- 
work in  the  average  house  and  to  furnish  a  l>ccoming  back- 
ground for  the  usual  wood  and  willow  furniture. 

Red  or  reddish  colors  are  too  aggressive  and  insistent  to  be 
useil  in  large  quantities.  Red  also  tends  to  diminish  the  ap- 
parent size  of  a  room. 

Yelluw  and  yellowish  colors  are  in  general  Ught,  bright,  and 
cheerful  in  efTect. 

Blue  or  bluish  colors,  while  they  tend  to  increase  the  ap- 
parent size  of  a  room,  are  inrluied  to  absorb  the  light  and  to 
be  fori  adding  if  used  in  larg**  quantities. 

Green,  which  is  a  mixture  uf  yellow  and  bine,  and  greenish 
colors  are  in  general  quiet  an^l  restful  in  effect  without  being  ^ 
depressing.  H 

Violet  is  the  color  characteristic  of  rnyster}^  and  shadow 
and  royalty,  and  sliuuld  be  avoideil  or  used  with  great  dis- 
crimination in  a  home. 

In  general,  colors  composed  of  two  or  more  colors,  whether 
of  paint,  of  dye»  or  the  interweaving  of  colored  threads  in  a 
fabric,  are  more  interesting,  more  refined,  and  more  atmos- 
pheric in  effect  than  the  verj^  evident  reds  and  yellows 
blues. 


I 

I 


I 


hUcnsittj  or  chrmna. 

Strong  or  bright  colors  are  not  appropriate  for  use  in  lai^ 
masses,  such  as  wall  or  tioor  coverings,  because  they  are  too 
insistent  and  aggressive  and  they  do  not  easily  hanuoniie 


I 


HOMK  FURNISHING 


47^ 


jwith  the  furnif^hings  in  the  average  home.  These  strong  colors 
f  may  be  lised  in  small  masses,  such  as  a  bouquet  of  flowei-s,  books, 
f  ora  textile,  to  add  a  note  of  interest  or  to  accent  a  eolor  scheme. 
Dulled  or  grayed  colors  are  in  general  appropriate  to  use 
in  large  masses,  such  as  wall  or  fi<x>r  coverings,  because  they 
are  restful  in  effect  and  keep  their  place  as  background*  A 
greater  variety  of  these  grayeil  eoloi*s  may  l>e  usetl  harmo- 
niously in  the  same  room  than  would  be  possible  with  a  com- 
bination  of  bright  colors. 

Value. 

Light  colors  in  general  tend  to  increase  the  apparent  size 
of  a  room,  to  make  a  room  seem  lighter,  and  to  produce  an 
effect  of  daintiness,  of  cleanliness,  and  of  cheer;  the^^  also  are 
more  luminous  and,  therefore,  verv'  effective  in  artificial  light. 
Used  to  excess,  or  inapprojiriately,  light  color  may  produce 
an  effen-t  of  bareness  or  aloofness. 

Dark  colors  in  general  tend  to  diminish  the  apparent  size 
of  a  room,  to  produce  an  effect  of  dignity  or  richness.  Color 
that  are  too  dark  are  likely  to  l:>e  oppressive  or  to  produce  an^ 
effect  of  gloom  or  dinginess,  and  are  very  difficult  to  illuminate 
by  night.  Middle  values,  that  is,  colors  that  are  about  half- 
way l>etween  the  extremes  of  light  and  dark,  are  in  general 
more  appropriate  for  the  furnishings  in  living-rooms,  Strong 
eontrast^  in  light  and  dark,  such  as  light  woodwork  with  dark 
waHst  or  dark  vvowJwork  with  light  walls,  dark  figures  on  a 
light  ground,  or  the  opposite,  produce  a  distracting  and  unrest- 
ful  effect, 

Conmderation^  governing  color  seledian 
From  the  foregoing  discussion  if  follows  that: 

1.  Southerly  i*ooms  with  a  superalmndanceof  light  and  sun- 
shine need  in  general  cool  and  dark  colors  to  temper  the  fight. 

2.  Northerly  rooms  wntli  no  sunshine  and  too  Uttle  light 
need  in  general  light,  yellowish  colors  to  introduce  a  feefing 
of  cheer  and  simshine. 

3.  Rooms  that  are  comfortably  lighted  and  sufficiently 
aunny  are  oj>en  to  a  variety  of  color  treatments. 


r 


48 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-hfAKlNQ 


4,  Rooms  that  are  over-large  and  yet  are  comfortably  light 
may  be  given  a  more  friendly  aspect  by  the  use  of  warm  colon 
that  are  metliiim  dark, 

5.  In  rooms  that  are  too  Rmall  and  yet  are  eomfort,abls 
lij^hted,  a  feeling  of  spare  ran  be  suggest^  by  I  he  Ui*e  of  ligh 
or  bluish  colons. 

(i.  In  rooms  in  which  I  he  woodwork  is  already  finfsbed  tmi 
cannot  be  changed,  the  color  scheme  is  within  limits  prede 
termined.    From  it  walls  and  furnishings  must  take  their  cy«»  j 

7.  Rooms  that  are  comfortably  large  and  light  and  ' 
hampering  conditions  are  open  to  a  variety  of  color  trc: 

8.  The  living-rf>om  adapted  to  many  uses  and  many  pen^oiu 
should  be  more  dignified  and  impersonal  in  color  scheme  tha 
the  other  rooms  of  the  house.  It  should  be  more  neiitml  in  iti 
general  scheme  in  order  to  he  adaptable  to  a  greater  variety 
of  coloring  in  the  smaller  areas.  Books,  pictures,  an  opt*! 
fire,  flower  arrangements,  and  other  changing  and  accident 
conditions  inevitably  bring  many  touches  of  brilUant  and 
var>'iiig  color  into  the  living-room. 

9.  A  dining-room  devoted  to  good  cheer  and  use<l  only  fo 
short  periods  admits  a  livelier  treatment.     Sometimes  dishe 
that  have  a  decided  color  may  well  give  the  kejTiote  to 
color  scheme. 

10.  Since  the  bedroom  is  for  sleep  and  rest,  even  though 
is  for  personal  use  and  allows  a  larger  margin  for  in 
preference  than  do  other  rooins^  nothing  should  take  pii 
over  those  qualifications  that  fit  it  for  its  purpose.    The  wt 
bed*   white  towels,  and  light  furniture  characteristic  of 
daintiness  desiral>le  in  liedrooms,  call  for  lighter  colorings  th 
do  the  family  rooms.    For  l)ed rooms  usetJ  also  for  both  stud 
and  sitting-room,   compromises  must   be  made.     The  whit^ 
bed  is  no  longer  suitable;  the  bedroom  takes  on  the  functk 
and,  therefore,  should  assume  the  appearance  of  a  living-r 
as  far  as  possible. 

IL  Since  the  bathroom  should  appear,  as  well  as  be, 
maculate,  all  white  or  white  with  other  light  colors  is  rac 
suitable.    White  with  yellow  for  a  batJiroom  on  the  north  sid 


J 


HO^fE  FURNISHINO  4d 


f     '^f  a  hou«e^  wKitc  and  !>liio  or  white  and  p:roen  for  a  sunny 
»      'bathroom,  are  good. 

■  12.  For  the  kitchen,  light  colors  are  cheerful  and  cleanly  in 
^m  appearance.  They  have  the  adtlcd  value  of  so  diffusing  the 
^M  light  both  by  day  and  by  night  that  there  need  be  no  dark 
^BtiDrners  to  work  in. 

■  It  foUo^^  from  all  these  manifest  influences  of  color,  that 
the  rooms  to  be  treated  should  be  examined  els  to  exposure, 
lighting,  size,  proportion,  and  use  Ijefore  determining  the 
color  scheme. 

Color  for  the  whole  inierior 
A  uniform  coloring  for  the  walls  of  a  series  of  connecting 
rooms  contributes  to  unity  of  effect.     A  sufficient  variety  in 
effect  may  be  secured  Ijy  var>'ing  the  color  or  pattern  of  dra- 
peries^ and  other  furnishings  in  the  dilTerent  rooms. 

It  seldom  happens  that  all  the  rooms  on  a  tloor  have  the 
atunc  exposure,  or  the  same  amount  of  liglit  or  the  same  use. 
Every  need  may  be  considered  and  yet  a  friendly  harmony 
obtained  by  the  use  of  closely  related  colors  that  may  range 
from  light  to  dark  in  value  and  through  a  series  of  related  hues. 

The  parL'i  of  the  room  as  a  background 

The  ceiling,  the  side  wall,  and  the  floor  form  the  backgi'ound 
of  the  room  against  which  all  the  furnishings  and  the  occupants 
of  the  room  are  seen.  Like  the  frame  of  a  picture,  the  back- 
ground should  Ix?  subordinate  in  cohjr  as  well  as  in  amount  of 
detaih  This  limitation,  far  from  niinimizing  the  importance 
of  the  backgromid,  gives  it  an  added  distinction,  and  demands 
for  it  t  he  most  careful  consideration.  The  function  of  the  back- 
ground is  to  serve.  While  not  obtruding  itself,  it  should  through 
its  color  supply  a  pervading  influence  that  may  be  felt  hke  an  | 
atmosphere.  This  province  of  the  background  is  best  filled,  as  ' 
has  been  said  m  the  tUscossion  of  color^  by  subdued  warm 
colors,  not  too  dark,  that  harmonize  with  the  more  usual  types  j 
of  furnishings  and  methods  of  lighting.    (See  Plate  III.) 

Ceiling,  side  walls,  and  floor  are  parts  of  one  whole.  They 
should,  therefore,  be  keyed  to  the  same  color.    This  important 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


point  has  often  been  disregarded.    The  ceilings  have  t»een  made 
wliite,  the  Hooi*s  con^irucled  of  any  eouvonicnt  wood  without^ 
reference  to  its  color;  the  color  of  the  walls  lias  been  chosen  witlwfl 
out  reference  to  either  floor  or  ceiling.     In  the  distribution  of 
color  valui*s  in  the  background,  the  old  analogy,  often  repeat^!, 
holds  g0(xl:  the  side  walls  of  a  room  correspond  in  value  to  thoJ 
middle  distance  in  a  landscape;  the  ceiling  corre,sponds  to  the] 
sky  which  is  lightest  of  the  three;  the  floor  to  the  ground,  wliichj 
IB  the  darkest.    This  is  not  a  mere  fancy.    A  very  dark  ccnling 
or  sky  is  threatening  and  oppressive  in  effect.    The  dark  tones 
of  the  ground  contribute  to  an  effect  of  stabihty  and  support 
that  are  fundamental  in  a  serviceable  floor. 


oi 

hafl 

AM 


Walls  and  trim. 

The  wall  color,  being  most  in  evidence  as  a  background,  co^?^ 
ing  a  greater  area  than  either  ceiling  or  fl<x>r  and  serving  as  th( 
connecting  hnk  iK^tween  tliei^e,  should  lie  the  determining  factor  j 
in  the  selection  of  the  color  sehcnie  and  naturally  would  h 
decided  first.  The  color  of  the  wall  should  l>c  selected  aft^r 
diagnosis  of  such  consitlerations  as  location,  size^  hghting  and 
u-st*  of  the  room,  and  the  recognizetl  inliuence  of  color  already 
discussed  (pagen  46  and  47).  The  color  of  ceiling,  floor,  and 
wooflwork  would  then  l>e  chosen  in  relation  to  it. 

If  the  color  of  the  trim,  which  is  really  a  part  of  the  wall, 
has  been  determined  first,  the  color  of  the  wall  should  I:>e  related 
to  it.  Golden  oak,  cypress,  and  mahogany  furniture  limit  the 
choice  of  the  wall  color  to  tones  closely  related  to  that  of  the  | 
wood.  If  a  householder  Is  already  suppliefi  with  furniture  of  a 
decided  character  or  color,  the  choice  of  color  scheme  is  limited 
in  t  he  same  way.  The  furniture  in  such  a  case  will  determine  the 
color  of  the  walls. 

Woodwork  painted  to  match  the  wall  color  increases  the 
apparent  size  of  the  room;  it  also  renders  less  conspicuous  ir- 
regularities and  poor  design  in  doors  and  windows.  Usually 
the  woodwork  may  well  l>e  made  a  tone  lighter  or  a  tone 
darker  than  the  wall.  Paint  for  the  woodwork  in  bedroonia 
or  any  room  with  a  light  coloi   scheme  should  be  toned;  a 


HOME  FURNISHING 

c^ream  or  ivor>^  tone  is  usually  more  gracious  than  a  dead 
white. 

If  it  is  necessary  to  finish  the  woodwork  before  the  wall  color 
can  be  known,  a  neutral  color  is  the  only  safe  choice. 

Ceiling. 

While  the  ceiling  should  be  keyed  to  the  color  of  the  side  wall, 
this  should  he  done  very  carefully^  since  any  light  ceiling  will 
abeorb  some  color  from  the  side  wall.  The  ordinary  method  of 
lighting  a  room  by  windows  placed  in  the  side  wall  obviates  to 
a  considerable  degree  the  effect  of  a  white  ceiling.  The  ligfit 
strikes  the  side  wall  directly,  leaving  the  ceiling  inc\itai>l  j  much 
darker  than  white.  This  should  be  kept  in  mind  in  selecting 
the  lint  for  the  ceiling,  lest  it  l>e  too  dark  for  the  effective  light- 
ing of  the  nx)m;  and  it  should  not  he  forgotten  when  a  ceiling 
color  is  extended  to  the  side  walL  In  such  a  ca,se  the  color  that 
comes  on  a  .side  wall  should  Ijc  several  tones  tiarker  in  order  to 
appear  of  the  same  tone  as  the  ceiling  color. 

Floors. 

It  is  more  difficult  to  regulate  the  color  of  wood  floors  than 
that  of  ceiling  or  side  wall,  becau.se  winle  it  is  desirable  to  re- 
late the  color  of  the  floor  to  the  side  wall,  there  is  a  distinct 
limit  to  the  range  of  color  in  wood  floors.  Floors  are  often  too 
light  in  value,  but  for  practical  reasons  this  cannot  always  be 
avoided.  Whatever  has  to  be  accepted  in  the  color  of  the  floor, 
however,  may  fortunately  lie  corrected  by  a  good  choice  of  rugs* 

PATTERN    (plates  IV,   v) 

An  exhaustive  discussion  of  pattern  would  involve  the  whole 
theor>*  and  practice  of  design,  but  the  usual  mistakes  of  the 
home-maker  in  choosing  wall  paper,  drapen%  iipholsier>^  and 
rtigs  may  be  avoided  by  an  understanding  of  what  constitutes 
good  pattern  and  the  kind  of  pattern  appropriate  for  different 
Usesi.  On  account  of  the  constant  influx  of  novelty  goods  that 
tend  to  V>ewilder  and  i*onfys<?  the  purcha.ser,  a  fund  of  common 
sens^ie  and  a  determination  not  to  be  sidetracked  by  passing 
fads  are  necessary  in  order  to  make  a  wise  selection. 


52 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Characierhtics  of  good  pattern 

The  nTotifs  employed  for  patterns  are  of  two  kinds:  (1)  tib- , 
stract  or  geometric  forms  which  are  simply  harmonious  ahapes 
so  repeate<l  as  to  make  a  pleasing  pattern;  for  exaiupU%  the 
Greek  key  pattern;  (2)  concrete  or  nature  fonns  ** convention- 
alized/' or  adiipted  to  their  use  as  pattern;  for  example,  tho^ 
French  fleor-de-lis. 

The  distinction  of  a  desifirn  dej>ends  not  on  the  orifdn  of  ih&\ 
motif,  but  on  its  tk-corative  treatment  and  color.    The  e^ 
ness  of  a  pattern  iis  an  eleuient  in  house  furnishing  n 
on  its  adapt aljility  in  cok»r  and  design  to  the  sei'vice  it  b  toj 
render  in  tlie  room  for  which  it  is  selected.    A  fabric  with  less] 
intrinsic  merit  than  another  in  pattern  and  color  may  l>e  thol 
lietter  choice  in  some  inslanres,  hy  rea>on  of  its  happier  n*hi^j 
tioo  to  the  other  furnishings  in  the  room.    By  far  the  greater] 
number  of  motifs  are  taken  from  nature.    Any  nature  raotll 
must  t)e  conventionalized,  or  adapted  to  its  use  as  pattern,  b}i 
chanj^in^  its  form,  size,  or  color,  and  arranging  it  in  an  orderly 
way,  keeping  in  mind  not  its  origin  from  nature,  hut  its  purposa^ 
Hs  de<*oraliun.     Any  pretense  at  naturalistic  modeling  or  shmK 
ing  should  be  very  formal  in  character.    That  it  i^  pattern  and 
not  picture  should  never  he  lost  sight  of  in  judging  a  design  for  i 
flat  surface.      Medal hons,   scrolls  without   beginning  or  end, 
baskets  of  flowers  or  fruits,  fluttering  ril>lx)ns  and  bow*knot;i, 
are  all  absurd  substitutes  for  real  design. 

The  figures  in  a  design  are  parts  of  one  whole  and  should 
connected  or  related  in  some  way.  Widely  separated  motifs 
tempt  the  eye  to  jiunp  from  one  spot  to  another  and  provoki 
one  to  count  rows,  and  mentally  rearrange  the  pattern*  Al 
effect  of  restfulness  is  thereby  lost.  Patterns  that  cover  th^ 
ground  well  are  in  general  better  for  furnishings  than  scattered 
spots.  Some  patterns  that  would  l>e  olijectionable  on  a  flat 
wall,  however,  may  be  used  acceptably  in  drapery,  since  the 
fulhiess  of  tlie  folds  rearranges  the  design.- 

One  of  thi*  characteristics  of  a  good  design  is  its  appropriate-^ 
nesH  to  the  material  in  which  it  is  developcnt.    Patterns  may  be 


L 


Plate  IV, — Types  of  furb  with  suitable  pattern,  developed  in  line  and  in 
in  self  tones  and  in  contraslmfi  ^^d  vari-colored  eBecta. 


1 


HOME  FUltXIsmXG 


53 


woveUf  em\}rokleredj  or  prinled — steiK^iled,  sttinippti,  or  staiiied 
—on  a  fabric.  Tlie  puttern  may  appropriately  declare  the 
tnaleriftl  in  wliieh  it  is  dc^velopod.  Woven  patterns  should  pref- 
erMy  suggest  warp  and  woof.  The*  de:>tgn  in  a  raja;  carpet, 
for  example,  naturally  appears  in  stripes  made  by  the  woof, 
which  is  much  more  prominent  than  the  finer  tlireads  of  the 
warp.  There  is  a  great  variety  of  patterns  appropriate  to  printed 
wall  papers  that  may  be  selected  in  preference  to  those  that 
imitate  leather  or  burlap  or  silk  or  oilcloth. 

A  pattern  may  be  cxpresi^cd  in  Htic^  alone  on  a  background 
of  another  color,  or  it  may  be  in  masses  or  s[mls  tliat  are  iigliter 
or  darker  or  different  in  color  from  the  background.  In  such 
patterns  the  shapes  ratfier  than  the  details  are  important* 
Sometunes  the  pattern  is  of  masses  that  are  broken  up  by  a 
variety  of  detail  and  color. 

Pattern  as  used  for  walls  ami  floors 

Walls  and  floors  are  flat  solid  surfaces.  Their  effectiveness 
&ml  comeliness  depend  on  this  striietural  fact  and  this  must  be 
borne  in  nuod  in  the  selection  of  [Kit tern  for  tlieiu.  Any  varia- 
tion of  surface  would  impair  the  function  of  wall  or  floor.  Any 
suggestion  by  the  pattern  of  sucli  ilefects  is  manifestly  out  of 
place.  Wall  patterns  of  trellises  and  vines,  of  realistic  flowers 
or  fruit  or  landscape,  of  simulated  columns,  or  of  panels  made 
of  pictured  moldings  shoulil,  therefore,  ix^  avoided.  For  the 
same  reasons^  realistic  flowcj*s  and  animals  are  out  of  place  in 
Item*  The  more  realistic  these  motifs  are,  the  pooj-er  is  the 
lign.  Because  the  effect  of  solidify  in  wails  and  Hoor  must 
'  maintaincH.!,  the  pattern  should  seem  very  flat. 
Since  both  walls  and  floor  arc  backgrounds,  the  pattern 
5uld  be  unobtrusive  in  color  and  design.  Fantastic  ornament, 
nolent  color,  or  strong  contrasts  of  any  sort  are  out  of  place 
in  a  background. 
Since  walls  are  upright  surfaces,  stripes,  if  inconspicuous, 
ires  in  which  the  vertical  dominates  or  that  are  so  arranged 
.  to  give  an  up-and-down  rather  than  a  crosswise  or  diagonal 
ovement,  are  good  types  for  wall  pattern. 


54 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME  MAKING 


Floors  are  horizontal  syrfaces  that  are  viewed  from  ever; 
direction.    The  pattern  on  the  Boor  s^hould,  therefore,  1>e  eflfe<'t 
ive  from  any  angle.    Goenietn't*  or  wry  eonventional  patter 
etiiiaily  good  from  every  point  of  view  are  the  best  choice  fo 

floor  coverings. 

SELECTION^   OF   FURNISHINGS 

Wall  coverings 

A  textile  may  he  used  to  cover  s^mooth  plastered  walls* 
sorts  of  materials  that  i^ive  the  desired  effect,  from  the  chca|>^ 
est  to  the  most  expensive,  have  been  employed  for  tliis  purpose. 
Canvas,  burlap,  grasscloth,  and  other  weaves  of  pleajsing  tes 
ure  are  efFet'tive  when  approfjriately  used.     None  of  the 
however,  compares  with  paper  in  {x*pularily  as  a  wall  covering 
Paper  is  comparatively  inexpensive,  is  easily  hung,  is  made 
an  inmiense  variety  of  colorings  and  pattern  and  a  wide  varietal 
of  textures.    Wall  paper  has  an  advantage  over  paint  in  tha 
the  exac^  effect  may  be  known  before  it  is  purchased,  by 
perimenting  with  a  roll  of  it  in  the  very  room  and  light  in  whicll 
it  is  to  he  used.    If  there  is  cause  for  doubt,  a  plain  paper  should 
be  select (*d  for  walls.    There  are  many  plain  papers  of  good  cole 
from  which  to  chfK)se,      The  oatmeal  textures  probably  offe 
the  most  desiralile  and  satisfactory  coloring  among  the  ineX'^ 
pensive  papers.    The  silk-fil>ered  papers,  while  more  expensive 
compensate  in  color  and  quality  for  the  greater  investment  of 
money. 

Another  safe  choice  in  paper  is  one  nearly  plain  in  effect  bulifl 
the  surface  of  which  is  liroken  by  dots  or  dashes  or  spla*shes  or™ 
other  slight  variations  that  give  a  little  ** bloom"  or  vibration 
of  color.     Paper  with  stripes  that  are  not  too  wifle  or  of  too 

conspicuous  contnist   are  gCKMl,  especially  in   low  rooms,     A 

plain  paper  sometimes   sliows   up  loo  conspicuously  the  un 
evenness  in  old  walls»    In  such  a  case  a  paper  with  a  small  con- 
ventional figure,  or  one  with  a  self-toned  foliage  pattern 
better,    A  paper  with  a  good  pattern  may  be  very  effective 
a  hall  or  corridor  or  a  room  with  few  or  no  pictures  and  plaii 
draperies.    It  hel[>s  to*  furnish  the  room.    A  large-figured  pdi 


HOME  FURNISHING 


55 


in  a  small  room  is  out  of  scale  and  makes  the  room  look 
smallen 

A  figured  wall-paper  may  be  used  as  a  frieze  in  a  large  room. 
Such  a  frieze  is  generally  more  effective  tlian  one  of  the  stock 
border  patterns,  and  is  more  easily  adapted  in  width  to  varied 
requirements.  A  figui-etl  frieze  is  often  a  decorative  finisii 
above  a  high  paneled  wainscot, 

A  border  of  unobtrusive  pattern  and  color  may  serve  on  oc- 
casion to  define  an  edg^e  or  emphasize  a  direction.  But  the  idea 
that  every  room  must  have  a  border  because  fasMon  so  decrees 
is  absurd  and  unreasonable.  Festoons  of  llowei^  and  conspicu- 
ous ornament  of  any  sort  that  tend  to  draw  the  eyes  uf)ward 
unpleasantly  is  out  of  place.  In  rooms  of  ordinary  height, 
borders  should  generally  be  omitted.  The}^  are  the  ofTspring  of 
the  traditional  cornice  whose  original  office  was  to  make  the 
division  between  ceiling  and  side  wall.  A  picture-molding 
placed  at  this  intersection  is  an  excellent  finish  in  a  low  room 
or  one  of  ordinary  height.  If  the  room  is  too  high,  the  ceil- 
ing color  may  be  brought  down  on  the  side  wall  and  the 
picture-molding  placed  at  the  intersection  of  ceiling  and  wall 
colors. 


Hangings  for  windows  and  doors  (Figs.  19-23) 
Hangings  are  useful  to  temper  the  light,  to  obstruct  an  un- 
pleasing  view,  to  preserve  privacy,  and  to  furnish  a  decora- 
tive efTect.    Door  draperies  are  iiseil  for  the  temporary  separa- 
tion of  rooms  or  for  tlecorative  ofTect. 

The  types  of  window  hangings  are  shades,  curtains^  and  val- 
ances- 

The  purpose  of  a  shade  is  to  regulate  light  and  to  secure 
privacy;  therefore,  a  shade  should  always  l>e  opaque.  A  glare 
of  color  in  a  room  through  a  shade  of  intense  hue  is  sometimes 
more  tr>'ing  than  a  flood  of  sunshine*  Shades,  being  next  to  the 
window,  affect  the  exterior  color  scheme  of  tlie  house  and  should 
be  chosen  with  this  in  mind.  Shades  need  not  on  that  account 
be  at  variance  with  the  interior  coloring  of  the  house,  for  a 
neutral  tone  may  be  chosen  that  will  not  violate  any  color 


Fio.  19.^ — A  nit'thud  oi  Imugiii^  two  »«?U  oi  vxiriuiuA  in  recesaM  windows 


HOME  FURNISHING 


57 


scheme,  or  double-faced  shades  may  be  used.  These  are  only  a 
little  more  expensive  and  may,  if  necessary,  be  colored  to  order. 
In  buyinj^  for  a  pennanent  home,  it  is  economy  to  selei-t  shades 
of  a  good  quality. 

Shades  should  be  hung  inside  the  trim  as  near  the  glass  as 
possible  without  interfering  with  the  operation  of  the  window. 
If  this  is  not  possibloi  the  shatles  should  be  himp;  near  the  inner 
edge  of  the  easing  or  window  trim,  Shatles  may  be  hung  so  as 
to  pull  up  from  the  IjoHom  insteail  of  down  from  the  top.  Thei*e 
are  also  fixtures  which  make  it  possible  to  adjust  the  shade  so 
that  it  may  cover  any  portion  of  the  window  at  any  time.  These 
adjust-able  shades  are  particularly  desirable  for  schoolroom  win- 
dows exposed  to  direct  sunlight  for  a  large  part  of  the  day, 
for  kitehen  windows  on  the  south  side  of  the  house,  and  for 
windows  in  any  sunny  workroom. 

Besides  shades  and  1  ilinds  that  shut  out  the  light,  the  windows 
of  most  rooms  need  drajK^ies  to  soften  the  hard  lines  of  glass 
and  wood,  to  temper  the  light,  to  veil  a  view,  to  complete  t!ie 
background  of  the  room,  and  to  add  a  decorative  note  in  color 
or  pattern. 

Elaeh  room  presents  an  individual  problem  in  curtains. 
Harmony,  simplicity ^  and  suitability  are  the  guiding  thoughts 
in  the  soUition.  Taste  is  more  efifeetive  than  money.  With  the 
modem  ideas  of  the  home  as  a  place  in  which  lives  are  to  be 
lived,  of  rooms  rationally  furnished  for  everyday  use,  windows 
gwathe<l  in  festoons  of  ilraperies,  sweeping  the  floor,  harboring 
dust,  inviting  germs,  and  excluding  the  air,  have  no  place.  The 
much  trimmed,  fcstooncil  and  lambreciuincd  draperies  are  not 
now  much  in  use;  their  return  should  never  be  allowc<l.  How- 
ever rich  the  material  use*:!  for  draperies  may  be,  they  should 
be  simply  made  and  so  hung  as  to  fall  in  straight  folds.  In  a 
case  of  doubt,  the  simplest  solution  of  the  prol>leni  of  window 
draperies  should  be  accepted. 

The  choice  in  material  ranges  from  filmy  nets,  transparent 
gauzes,  scrim,  and  nuislin  through  soft  silk  and  cotton  fabrics, 
Unens  and  coarse  canvas  weaves,  brocades,  damask,  and  tapes- 
try, velvets  and  velours;  in  color  and  design  from  one  un- 


Mi 


I 
I 


D 


I 


Fio*  20. — Four  rnethrxia  of  curtainiiiK  a  doubJe-hung  window:  A*  stmisht 
curtains  huoK  within  thu  windnw  trim.  B,  a  half,  or  sa^,  rtirtain 
often  used  for  priviwy.  C.  tiji  iiic^msistrnt  way  of  hanidtifr  drttprr>% 
which  could  l)e  renu'iJii'd  by  rabdii«  thi'  rod,  and  exU'ndiijg  it  to  the 
length  of  the  top  molHiag.  D,  a  tnrthod  of  hanging  eurtatua  to  cover 
an  ugly  trim  or  to  widen  Ibc  window  in  effect. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


59 


broken  neutral  tone  to  the  most  complex  variation  of  hues 
and  patterns;  in  price  from  a  few  cents  to  many  dollai^s  a  yard- 
Any  fabric  may  be  used,  provide^d  it  is  suitable.  KtTects  iii 
design,  color,  texture,  and  pattern  that  harmonize  witJi  the 
room  and  its  furnishings  are  the  distinpiuishing  characteristics 
of  the  most  tasteful  selections  of  hangings,  ratlier  than  rich 
and  costly  materials. 

Scrim,  colored  chintzes,  cretonnes  or  any  other  dainty  wash- 
able material  is  appropriate  for  a  1>edroom.  Bright  or  gaily- 
figured  hangings  may  Ix?  used  in  rooms  devoted  to  good  cheer 
and  occupied  for  only  short  periods,  such  as  a  dining-room  or  a 
porch  sitting-room.  Patterns  and  colors  that  are  entertaining 
in  a  tea-room  might  l>e  unbearable  in  a  living-room.  For 
rooms  in  constant  use,  or  for  rooms  that  should  be  rejx^seful 
in  their  influence,  such  as  a  lil>rary,  a  living-room,  or  a  study ^ 
near-neutral  colors  and  unobtrusive  patterns  are  essential 

A  city  dwelling,  close  to  the  street  and  overshadowed  by  other 
buildings*  a  country^  house  situated  on  a  hilltop,  t)r  in  a  valley, 
or  by  the  sea,  or  in  a  setting  of  open  fields  or  gardens  sur- 
rounded V)y  trees  and  shnihben^  present  different  problems 
in  window  treatment.  Velvets,  damasks,  and  hanrlsome  linen 
are  appropriate  for  the  city  house,  and  the  greater  formality 
and  reserv^e  which  are  its  natural  characteristics.  Mi  effect 
of  freshness  is  in  keeping  with  the  environment  of  the  country 
home.  Cretonnes,  chintzes,  and  printed  linen  with  brighter 
coloring  than  would  be  appropriate  in  thv  city  home,  are  in 
hannony  with  the  birds  and  flowei-s  and  outdoor  country. 
Simple  curtains  of  unbleached  cotton  for  the  small-paned 
cottage  window  with  its  ledge  of  flowering  i:>lants  suggest  the 
charm  of  the  little  house  across  the  st^a.  Fur  the  house  used 
only  in  summer,  curtains  should  of  course  be  of  washable 
materials. 

The  hghting  of  the  room  is  an  important  consideration  in 
selection  of  window  draperies,  If  the  room  is  poorly  lighted, 
thin  draperies  light  in  value,  tending  toward  yellow — the  most 
luminous  color — will  be  the  most  effective  choice,  provided  it  is 
consistent  with  the  color  of  the  walls.    If  the  room  is  too  Ught 


i 


Ito.  21. — Two  metbodi  of  curtaining  a  croup  of  winduirs. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


61 


and  siinBy,  darker  and  cooler  colors  and  hc^avier  fabrics  should 
be  used.  Curtain  material  should  jiever  be  chosen  without 
hanging  a  lai^e  sample  in  the  window  of  the  room  in  which  it 
is  to  be  used,  Ix^cause  the  color  effect  is  frequently  quite  dif- 
ferent under  transmitted  light.  Material  with  a  black  thread 
is  likely  to  look  dull  and  dingy;  a  fabric  woven  with  blue  and 
yellow  threads  l>ecomes  green  when  ^een  against  the  light* 
The  effect  of  artificial  Bght  on  the  draperies  should  also  be 
considered,  since  colors  change  surprisingly  from  their  day- 
time effects. 

Valance  is  the  tenn  used  for  a  short  drapery  hung  at  the 
top  of  the  window.  It  shoidd  preferably  extend  across  the  en- 
tire curtain  space,  or  in  emei*gcncy  cover  only  that  space  be- 
tween the  curtains.  Valances  are  dccoratively  useful  in  fur- 
nishing a  continuation  in  color  and  line  between  curtains  that 
hang  too  far  apart,  or  in  enipha^sizing  the  shape  of  tiie  window. 
They  may  sei*ve  as  a  decorative  connecting  hnk  between  the 
outside  curtains  at  a  group  of  windows,  nrnking  it  possible  to 
dispense  with  other  drapery  in  the  group.  Valances  emphasize 
the  horizontal  in  a  room. 

Portiferes,  or  door  draperies,  sometimes  serve  in  place  of 
doors  in  the  openings  between  rooms  where  only  a  temporary 
separation  is  required.  They  may  serve  also  to  soften  the 
lines  of  the  trim,  to  cover  an  expanse  of  objectionable  wtKid  in 
the  doors,  or  to  add  a  decorative  note  of  color  or  pattern. 
There  is  a  wide  variety  of  fabrics  to  choose  from.  CJenerally 
a  hea\'y  fabric  hangs  lietter  and  seems  more  appropriate  in  a 
doorway  than  a  light  one^  and  a  doul)le-fac€*d  material  is  simpler 
to  make  up.  Manifestly,  skeleton  draperies  composed  of  cords 
and  tassels,  strings  of  beads  and  shells,  are  an  absurd  substi- 
tute for  a  useful  draperv^ .  Door  draperies  may  continue  the 
color  of  the  walls,  or,  like  the  window  itrapery,  may  be  of  a 
contrasting  color.  If  the  rooms  connected  by  the  opening 
require  difYerent  color  treatment,  the  portidre  may  be  made 
double.  The  same  considerations  regarding  pattern  that 
guide  the  selection  of  window  hangings  are  applicable  to  door 
drapery. 


I 


62 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


I 


Color  and  pattern, 

Coloi  is  of  fiYHi  importaoce  in  the  decomtivf  pffrct  of  window- 
hangings.  While  curtains  may  he  appropriate  in  a  room  with 
white  woodwork,  white  ceiling,  and  light  walh,  for  they  arc 
in  sueh  ca.'^e  in  luinnony  with  the  general  color  scheme,  but 
they  arc  not  appi-opriate  for  rooms  oi  darker  color.  Window- 
hangings  should  gcncraliy  harmonize  in  hue  with  the  walls  of 
the  room*  If  tlic  hangings  are  of  exactly  the  same  color  aa 
the  side  wall,  the  result  is  likely  to  be  monotonous.  But  if 
the  room  is  small,  the  of>t*ntngs  many,  and  the  other  furnishings 
in  strong  color  contrast  to  t-be  walls,  a  close  match  in  color 
between  walls  and  draperies  may  produce  a  most  restful  effect. 
If  the  walls  are  plain  and  not  covered  with  pictures  and  other 
olijects  that  attract  undue  attention,  the  drap<'ries  may  be 
stronger  in  color  and  more  pn>nounced  in  pattern,  constituting 
the  strong  decorative  note  in  the  room.  In  general,  providcfj 
the  colors  are  hannonious  and  the  pattern  not  too  pronounced, 
it  is  safe  to  use  striped  or  figured  drapc*ries  with  plain  walls, 
and  plain  drapc^ries  with  walls  that  have  a  pattern.  Figured 
draperie^s  may  l^e  used  elTectively  with  striix^d  wall  covering. 
The  best  designs  for  drapery^  as  for  wall  covering;  are  those 
that  cover  the  ground  and  pre^sent  no  violent  contrast  in  color 
or  pattern. 

Window  draperies  may  contribute  largely  to  the  color  efTecta 
deseribetl  in  rooms  of  difTen^nt  exposum,  or  of  difTerent  locali- 
ties. The  warmth  and  Ught  contained  iu  soft  tones  of  yellow 
and  orange  can  be  counted  on  to  counteract  a  feeling  of  cold 
and  gloom.  Darker  and  cooler  colors  may  l>e  used  when  there 
is  much  sun  or  heat. 

Texture. 

Texture  affects  the  adaptabiUty  of  the  hangings.  Texture 
is  the  quality  of  material  made  known  to  us  originally,  as  its 
name  signifies,  through  I  ouch,  l)Ut  by  experience  is  equally 
recognizable  through  siglit.  Words  used  to  descrilve  textures 
are  accordingly  descriptive  of  feeling,  such  as  mugh,  smooth, 
hard,  soft,  velvety,  silky,  crfipy,  coarse,  fine,  firm^  loase.    Burlap, 


HOME  FURNISHING 


63 


for  example,  is  rough  and  coarse  compared  with  India  silk. 
Tightly  woven  linen  is  firm  and  hard  in  effect.  Velvets  and 
velours  are  soft.  Burlap^  monk's  cloth,  canvas,  and  similar 
textures  are  appropriate  in  rooms  finished  in  rough  plaster 
with  oak  woodwork  and  mission  furniture.  Silk  and  satin  or 
raercOTzed  fabrics  are  more  appropriately  used  with  wood  of 
such  grain  or  texture  as  mahoj^any  or  sat  in  wood  or  with  painted 
wood.  Variations  in  texture  producctl  by  different  ^veaves, 
patterns,  or  colorings  rnay  give  even  inexpc^nsive  malerialaj 
so  distinjoiished  a  quality  as  to  make  them  appropriate  for 
use  in  very  dignified  surrounthnps.  Some  of  the  de^signs  from 
priceless  tapestries  in  European  musenms  have  been  printetl 
on  linen  and  may  thus  be  enjoyed  at  moderate  cost* 

TVeaiment  as  to  number  in  one  window. 

Ordinarily  one  pair  of  curtains  is  sufficient  to  answer  the 
purpose  of  a  window  drapery.  Especially  in  rooms  with  few 
or  vcr>*  small  windows,  swathing  with  drajiery  should  be  avoided 
since  it  produces  a  stuffy  effect.  Casement  cloth,  many  of 
the  hea\y  nets,  and  sunfa.st  materials,  cretonnes,  chintzes, 
and  printed  Unens  are  very  effective  when  used  as  single  hang- 
ing. It  is  sometimes  necessar>'  to  think  of  curtains  ^is  screena 
to  shut  out  the  public  or  a  disagreeable  view.  Curtains  may! 
be  so  chosen  as  to  perform  this  service  and  yet  admit  light. 
Sash  curtains  hung  across  the  lower  haff  of  the  window  are 
the  most  natural  answer  to  this  problem.  They  arc  often  use- 
ful in  a  bathroom  or  kitchen. 

Two  sets  of  curtains  are  sometimes  required  for  practical , 
or  decorative  reasons.  For  example,  in  windows  near  a  street,! 
one  set  of  curtains  may  shut  out  the  gaze  of  passei-s-by  while 
admitting  the  light,  and  the  otIuT  serve  as  a  screen  in  tlie  even- 
ing and  a  decorative  note  at  all  times.  In  recessed  windows, 
such  as  are  found  in  brick  pr  stone  houses,  or  in  a  bay  window 
or  a  group  of  windows,  thin  curtains  may  be  used  next  the 
glass,  and  heavier  draperies  harmoniously  related  to  the  side^ 
WTill  may  be  hung  on  the  trim  and  drawn  to  shut  off  the  rece 
or  the  whole  window  group  when  desired. 


kittfiifa 


i 

^^■^^r^H^'  ^f  • 

I 


HOME  FURNISHING 


65 


If  two  seta  of  curiaiiLS  are  usect  one  pair  is  hung  next  the 
glass.  The-se  are  called  glass,  or  sonietioies  satsh,  curtains. 
As  the  function  of  these  is  to  cut  out  the  view  but  admit  the 
light,  they  should  l>c  of  thin  material,  such  as  net,  plain  lace, 
scrim,  gauze,  thin  silk,  mercerized  cotton,  sunfast  fabric,  or 
casement  cloth.  Such  an  inner  curtain  should  be  consistent 
in  texture  with  the  outer  dra{)ery;  for  example,  with  velvet  or 
silk  or  any  ricli  material,  net  of  good  quality  or  po.ssibly  mar- 
quisetCe  is  a  good  choice.  With  linen  or  cretonne,  scrim  is 
better.  With  cretonne  or  similar  patterned  liangings,  the 
inner  curtains  should  match  the  ground  in  tone;  white,  if  the 
ground  is  white,  cream  or  ecru  if  the  ground  is  of  that  color; 
otherv^ise,  one  is  likely  to  look  faded  or  discolored.  In  thin 
materials,  too  coarse  a  mesh  should  be  avoided  on  account 
of  shrinking;  an  even  weave  is  more  easily  made  up  and  hangs 
better.  These  glass  curtains  soften  the  glare  and  are  a  pro- 
tection for  the  heavier  window  draperies.  They  are  always 
in  evidence  on  the  outside  of  a  house  and  should  l>e  selected 
with  this  in  mind.  If  all  tlie  glass  curtains  in  the  house  are 
ahke,  or  if  in  the  city  those  in  the  front  of  the  house  are  alike, 
a  pleasing  unity  of  effect  from  the  outside  is  con^served. 

The  over,  or  outer,  pair  of  curtains  which  is  in  more  direct 
relation  with  the  walls  of  the  room  may  be  made  of  any  of  th€ 
heavy  materials  alrcad^^  mentioned.  This  over-iirapery  maj 
l>c  used  to  regulate  the  light  during  the  day,  and,  by  shutting 
out  the  outside  world,  to  give  an  effect  of  intimacy  at  night.1 
At  any  time  it  may  furnish  a  decorative  note  in  the  room. 

Hanging  of  draperies. 

If  the  woodwork  of  tlie  room  has  been  so  selected  ami  finished 
as  to  make  of  it  a  structural  decorative  feature,  it  should  bear 
somewhat  the  same  relation  to  the  draperies  as  a  picture-frame 
tn  u  picture,  outlining  and  defining  that  which  is  inclosed.  In 
this  case  the  draperies,  if  there  is  only  one  set,  should  preferably 
be  hung  inside  the  trim;  if  there  are  two  sets,  the  outside  one 
would  probably  need  to  be  hung  on  the  trim,  but  should  be 
kepi  as  near  the  inner  edge  as  possible. 


m 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Varying  types  of  window  ronstruction  require  difTerent 
methods  of  hariginjc  dniperics.  Often  in  t!ie  eaise  of  ready* 
made  dwellings,  the  wood  is  t^o  disturbing  m  color  or  finish, 
or  the  size  and  placing  of  the  various  openings  in  the  room 
are  so  unfortunate  that  it  is  necessar>^  to  cover  the  trim  in 
order  to  produce  a  good  resuh.  It*  all  the  windows  in  the  room 
arc  of  the  same  size  and  the  siime  kind  and  placed  on  the  same 
level,  the  problem  is  simple. 

If  there  are  two  sets  of  curtains,  the  problem  is  varied  only 
by  the  sort  of  fixtures  usc^d.  The  tiucstion  is  more  complex 
when  then^  are  several  varieties  of  windows  in  the  room,  with 
doors  requiring  draperies  besides.  The  most  important  or 
dominant  opening  should  in  general  indicate  the  treatment. 

Casement  or  French  windows  that  f>pen  out  are  compliant 
to  the  same  treatment  and  arrangement  of  draperies  as  double- 
hmig  windows.  If  caseiiient  windows  o|X!n  in,  only  one  set 
of  curtains  can  be  managed  easily.  These  may  be  hung  di- 
rectly on  the  windows,  and  be  confined  by  rods  with  rings 
at  both  toj)  and  1  jo t torn.  If  a  second  set  of  draperies  is  used 
with  such  winilows,  the  rod  from  which  they  are  suspended 
must  reach  from  the  outer  edge  of  the  trim  or  even  l:)eyond 
this  edge  so  as  to  free  the  curtains  when  the  window  is  opened. 

Draperies  shoukl  always  hang  straight;  fashion  should  never 
be  allowetl  to  l>e  a  deteiinining  factor.  When  curtains  are 
looped  back^  disturbing  lines  at  variance  with  the  structural 
features  of  the  room  are  protluced  and  simplicity  is  lost.  If 
it  is  desirable  to  draw  curtains  back,  the  folds  may  still  hang 
straight. 

Curtains  just  long  enough  to  escajie  the  sill  are  appropriate 
in  most  cases  but  if  for  any  reason  they  must  be  hung  to  cover 
the  trim,  they  should  cover  sill  and  apron  as  well.  Sometimes 
when  the  design  of  the  window  contains  a  paneled  space  below, 
long  curtaias  just  escaping  the  floor  are  more  cooBistent  with 
the  type  of  window  than  those  of  sill  length, 

Vdances  hung  between  curtains  are  appropriate  only  when 
these  curtains  are  not  to  be  <irawn;  in  such  cases  they  should 
be  of  the  same  fullness  and  should  hang  in  the  same  sort  of 


I 


HOME  FURXlSHiNG 
A 


io 


T 


TT 


WnJU 


67 


jLJ^ 


Pla.  23. — Three  typtiA  of  vziLiijce  and  rurtiiin  arranged  to  cover  the  trim, 
A,  a  flimplc  gathered  valance;  B,  a  vMinipte  type  of  formal  fitted  valance; 
C,  R  type  of  valance  in  which  the  figure  governs  the  method  of  liangmg. 


I 


68  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

folds  ns  the  curtain.  Valances  should  preferably  lie  extended 
across  the  whole  window  and  shook!  hang  on  a  separate  rod 
in  order  not  to  inlerfere  with  the  indefx^ndent  adjuHtment  of 
the  eortains.  The  valance  usually  hanj^  from  (he  same  height 
as  the  curtain;  hut  in  the  ca.^e  of  a  window  with  a  transom, 
the  valance  may,  if  the  construction  of  the  window  allows, 
hang  from  the  top  of  the  transom  and  fall  only  far  enough  to 
cover  comfortably  the  top  of  the  curtains. 

Portidrc^s  are  hung  in  tlie  same  general  way  as  curtain.^; 
sometimes  on  the  trim  but  more  often  between  the  door  jambs.  _ 

Measurhtg  draperies  for  windouys  and  doors. 

The  space  to  be  covercd  by  the  drai>ery  should  be  measured 
accurately.  Kvery  mea,suremont  should  l»e  taken  with  a 
yardstick  or  foin-fo^vt  rule.  A  ta[K*-n^easure  is  liable  to  stretch. 
A  diagram  of  the  window  should  be  made  and  the  measure- 
ments indicateii  upon  this. 

Lexigth. 

The  space  that  the  curtain  i^  to  cover  fram  the  top  of 
heading  to  the  Ixjttom  of  the  hem  when  finished  should 
determined.     An  allowance  of  5  or  6  inches  should  be  left  for 
''crawl'*  and  for  the  making  up  of  any  unlincd  curtain  that  is 
to  have  a  shirred  hearling,  a  run  for  the  rod»  and  a  2*inch  hem 
at  the  bottom.     If  the  curtains  are  to  l>e  washed  frequently, 
and  especially  if  they  are  of  material  with  a  coarse  mesh,  more 
should  be  al lower  1  for  shrinkage.     This  extra  length  may  \ie 
disposed  of  by  making  three  thicknesses  in  the  hem.    If  sewed 
by  hand,  the  hem  can  be  ripped  easily  and  rehemmed  aft^r 
washing.    If  there  is  no  heachng,  only  4  inches  need  be  allowed 
for  making.    In  estimating  the  quantity  of  materiub  allowance 
must  be  made  for  the  ** repeat'*  of  the  pattern  in  matching 
the  dci^ign.    Sometimes  when  there  is  a  large  design  and  con-  m 
siderable  waste,  the  parts  ctit  out  can  be  used  in  the  valance,  | 
If  the  pattern  has  a  figure  conspicuous  in  size  or  shape  or  color, 
the  drapery  should  t>e  planned  so  that  this  figure  comes  at  the 
same  distance  from  the  top  in  both  curtains  of  one  window  and 


I 

I 


HOME  FURMSllIXG 


60 


> 


preferably  in  all  the  windows  in  the  room.  The  drop  in  differ- 
ent patterns  varies  from  a  few  inches  to  several  feet  and  is  an 
iinportarit  cx)nsideration  in  measuring  anrl  cutting  figured 
materiais. 

Materialp^  suit able  for  window  di"ai>er>'^  eonie  in  many  widths, 
from  31  indicts  to  52  inches  or  even  72  inches.  For  windows 
of  average  witttli,  50-inch  materia!  may  bo  used  to  good  ad- 
vantage  if  pattern  and  texture  permit,  by  cutting  it  in  two 
lengthwise  and  making  both  curtains  in  the  pair  from  one  length 
of  drapery. 

Width. 

Window  drapery  should,  theoretically,  be  sufficiently  wide 
to  cover  comfortably  the  whole  window  even  if  it  is  seldom 
necessary  to  do  this.  The  width  of  the  w^hole  space  plus  from 
one-third  to  onc-haff  tlie  space  to  be  covered,  according  to  the 
thickness  of  the  material,  furnishes  an  agreeable  fullness. 
When  the  curtains  arc  purely  decorative,  us  is  sijmetijiies  the 
ciise  with  the  outer  drapery,  or  when  only  one  pair  is  used  ' 
with  a  valance  in  a  group  of  windows,  less  fullness  may  be 
^sufficient. 

Lining. 

If  the  curtains  are  to  be  lined,  allowance  should  be  made 
for  the  heading  at  the  top  and,  ordinarily,  for  2  inches  to  bo 
turned  up  at  the  bottom,  that  is,  as  nmch  for  making  as  in 
the  unlined  curtain. 

If  the  curtains  are  to  be  finished  with  a  gimp  or  fringe,  1 
inch  is  enough  to  allow  for  making,  since  in  this  case  the  Uning 
should  come  nearly  to  the  edge. 

For  the  lining,  the  same  length  should  be  allowed  as  for  the 
ettrtain,  minus  the  width  of  the  heading.  If  the  material  is 
liea\nt%  more  must  be  allowed  for  the  hniog,  since  the  outside 
b  likely  to  sag*  If  the  outside  is  considerably  heavier  than 
the  lining,  or  if  there  is  a  ilifTerence  in  the  elasticity  of  the  two 
materials,  the  curtains  should  be  sewed  only  at  the  top  and 
aUowed  to  hang  for  two  or  three  weeks  before  finishing.    Fifty- 


mm 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKIXG 


inch  sateen  suitable  for  lining  curtaijis  is  to  be  found  in  the 
upholstery  departments. 


Valances. 

The  ordinary  valance  of  cretonne  or  thin  material  is  gathel 
or  plaited  and  made  with  a  hoiiding,  t^ueh  valances  vary  from 
12  to  18  inches  in  vertical  Icnj^h,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
window  and  the  type  of  room,  whether  a  Ijedroom  or  a  U\'ing- 
room.  For  short  casement  windows  or  for  a  bedroom,  a  valance 
not  more  Uian  8  inches  wide  is  sometimes  very  effective.  The 
width  of  the  window  space  to  Ik*  covered  plus  from  one-third 
to  one-hatf  its  width  sliould  allow  sufficient  fullne^ss  for  the 
valance.  If  the  valance  is  to  be  plaited,  the  length  necessary 
for  each  plait  should  l>e  niulfiplied  by  the  number  of  plait.s 
and  added  to  the  length  of  the  rucl,  phis  2  inches  for  making. 
For  the  heading,  to  the  length  of  the  finished  valance  should 
l>e  added  the  same  allowance  as  for  curtains,  4  inches  for  the 
heading  and  run  at  the  top,  IJ2  inches  for  the  hem  at  the 
Ijoiioni.  For  a  gatheretl  valance  in  a  window  3  feet  wide, 
one  width  of  52-inch  material  will  allow  sufficient  fullness. 
For  a  flat  valance,  the  vertical  width  of  the  valance  is  measured 
at  the  widest  part,  and  2  inches  added  for  making.  For  the 
horizontal  length  of  such  a  valance,  the  width  of  the  window 
space  to  lie  covered  is  measured,  or,  in  ttie  case  of  a  curved 
rod,  the  length  of  the  rod,  and  2  inches  added  for  making. 
If  there  are  plaits  or  pipes  in  such  a  valance,  the  amount  re- 
quircfl  for  each  one  must  be  calculated,  and  this  added  to  the 
length  of  the  valance. 

Portifems. 

For  portieres  hung  from  a  pole  by  rings,  the  space  to  be 
covered  by  the  hanging  finished  is  that,  from  the  l:K)ttom  of  th(» 
pole  to  within  2  inches  of  the  floor.  This  space  is  refjuired  in 
the  interest  l>oth  of  cleanliness  and  apj>earance.  For  portieres 
with  a  run  for  the  rod,  with  or  without  heading,  allowance 
must  l>e  matle  as  for  curtains,  Portidn^  often  require  lining, 
in  which  case  3  inches  in  addition  to  the  length  when  finished 


^ra^^ 


I 
I 


I 
I 


HOME  FURNISHiNG 


71 


should  be  allowRcl    Some  materials  "crawl"  in  use,  but  most 
fabrics  that   are  used   for  portieres  are  heavy  and  tend 
sag. 

Making  draperies. 

Curtains. 

Before  cutting,  the  material  shouUI  be  studied  carefully  to 
see  whether  there  is  any  up  and  down,  right  and  wrong  side, 
or  matching  of  figures  to  be  considered. 

When  possiiilc  one  should  cut  hy  tliread.  In  the  case  of  some 
ebeap  printed  goods^  this  is  not  practicable^  but  such  curtains 
are  likely  to  hang  askew  after  they  liave  been  laundered. 

In  making  curtains^  a  large  table  that  one  can  walk  around 
should  be  used. 

Glass  curtains  and  any  curtains  made  of  thin  textiles  or 
unlined  may  be  finished  at  the  top  (!)  with  a  hem  or  cavsing  for 
the  rod,  (2)  with  a  heading  and  a  run  for  the  rod  below  the 
hem,  (3)  with  a  hem  and  rings  sewed  on  to  the  ed^e  of  the  cur- 
tain i)r  with  rings  sewed  on  to  tlie  h*ne  of  the  hetn  so  that  they 
are  invisible.  Curtains  that  are  hung  on  rings  are  more  easily 
moved  back  and  forth;  but  if  the  curtains  need  frequent  laun- 
dering, the  rings  may  be  troublesome. 

Twice  the  diameter  of  the  rod,  or  more,  should  be  allowed 
for  the  width  of  the  run  or  casing,  to  provide  for  shrinking  and 
the  easy  adjustment  of  the  cmtains. 

Thin  curtains  are  better  gathered  or  shirred. 

Ample  width  for  a  heading  in  limp  material  is  Iji  inches; 
if  the  hea^ling  is  wider,  the  fokJs  lop  over  in  an  uutidy  way. 
Two  inches  is  not  ttw  wide  a  heading  if  the  curtains  are  of  a  firm 
material  that  stands  up  well. 

For  full  length  curtains  for  large  windows,  3  inches  is  a  good 
width  for  the  hem  at  the  bottom.  For  glass  curtains  or  curtains 
of  thin  material,  2  inches  is  sufficient.  The  hem  may  be  turned 
in  its  full  width,  thus  making  three  thicknesses  of  material. 
In  any  case  this  gives  firmness  and  w^eight  that  makes  the  cur- 
tain bang  ivell,  and  in  the  case  of  washable  curtains  furnishes 
an  opportunity  to  counteract  the  effect  of  shrinkage.     Hem- 


^mmaL 


72 


1    MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


gtitehing  or  fagoting  is  an  excellent  finish  for  scrim  or  marquis- 
ette, and  it  gives  n  touch  of  distioetion  to  the  curtain. 

Curtains  of  chintz  and  mm^  nth<T  materials  niny  he  turned 
up  on  the  right  side,  and  an  etlge  of  gimp  or  a  narrow  fringe 
may  be  i^ewed  on.  Attractive  etlgiiigs  for  cliintz  are  obtainable, 
and  when  chintz  curtains  arc?  aserl  in  living  or  other  family 
rooms,  these  gimps  make  an  effective  finish.  In  this  case,  the 
width  of  the  gimp  is  enough  to  allow  at  the  bottom  for  making. 
In  general,  the  hemstitching  or  other  finish  of  a  curtain  begina 
at  the  top  of  the  inside  of  the  curtain  and  continues  across  the 
lower  edge.  There  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not  l:>e  continued 
up  the  outside  edge,  thus  making  the  edges  reversible. 

Lined  curtains. 

Many  materials  used  for  the  outer  window  draper>^  should  l>e 
lined,  t^specialIy  for  windows  subjected  to  the  heat  and  glare  of 
the  sun.  Lining  is  often  desirable  even  when  there  are  glass 
curtains,  l>oth  for  the  protection  of  the  material,  if  this  is  expen- 
sive or  likely  to  fade,  and  for  the  effect  in  the  room.  Some  fab- 
rics are  much  more  efTective  when  lined;  others  are  much  haml* 
somer  un lined.  The  pattern  in  cretonne,  for  example,  comes  out 
much  better  when  there  is  no  lining,  while  in  printed  linens 
the  pattern  is  often  almost  ol)litcrat<^d  and  the  ground  looks 
dense  and  dull  if  made  up  without  a  lining. 

If  ihe  curtain  to  l)e  lined  hivs  a  heading,  this  should  generally 
be  made  by  turning  over  the  outside  material  at  the  top»  es- 
pecially if  the  heading  is  likely  to  fall  over,  or  is  of  plaita  which 
are  m tended  to  turn  over. 

When  curtains  are  to  be  lined,  they  should  be  placed  face 
down  on  the  table.  After  cutting  olT  the  selvage^  which  is 
otherwise  likely  to  draw,  the  e<lges  are  turned  in  and  l>asted 
down.  The  lining  should  be  basted  on  to  the  outside  first  at 
the  top,  then  across  the  curtain  at  frequent  inter\'als  throughout 
the  length  of  the  curtain.  The  edges  of  the  lining  are  then 
tiu*ned  in  and  basted  to  the  outside,  letting  the  edge  of  the  lining 
come  to  about  */io  ^^^  from  the  etlge  of  the  outi?ide.  The 
curtain  is  finished  at  the  top,  and  if  it  is  of  heavy  material^ 


uLs-   ■ 


I 


HOME  FURAISHIXG 


73 


allowed  to  han^i:  for  thrive  weeks  or  more  lief  ore  finishing  either 
the  sides  or  the  bottom. 

Valances. 

The  ordinanr^  valance  of  cretonne  oi-  thin  material  is  gathered 
or  plaited  and  made  with  a  headinp;.  Gathered  valances  are 
made  in  the  same  way  i\s  gathered  curtains.  For  plaited  val- 
ances, the  br»x  plait  is  generally  used.  The  plaits  may  be  very 
near  together  or  at  some  distance  apart.  The  width  of  plaits 
and  spa(*es  must  be  carefully  estimated,  and  if  the  plaits  are  a 
wide  distance  apart,  this  spacing  must  be  determined  with 
great  accuracy.  In  figurcil  material,fthe  figure  often  indicates 
the  best  spacing.  The  plaits  may  he  taken  up  like  a  tuck, 
basted  carefully,  presstHl  to  produce  the  boxplait,  the  basting 
ripped  out,  and  the  valance  allowed  to  hang  free  from  the  rod. 
The  easing  for  the  rod  is  stitched  to  the  iiack  at  the  base  of  the 
healing.  The  casing  should  l>e  so  wide  that  the  outline  of  the 
rod  is  not  visible  on  the  right  side;  or  a  flat  tape  may  be  sewed 
on  at  the  base  of  the  heading  and  hooks  attached  to  this, 
Plaitcil  valances  are  moi*e  formal  and  finished  in  appearance 
than  gathered  or  shirred  valances.  They  should  Ijc  measured 
accurately,  sewerl  firmly,  pressed  well,  and  hung  straight. 

The  shaped  valance  made  over  buckram  and  with  interlining 
is  suitable  for  the  richest  material,  such  as  velvet,  velour,  or 
damask,  and  for  the  most  stately  rooms.  When  such  materials 
art*  use<b  a  professional  can  generally  l>e  employetl  to  make  them 
up;  therefore,  only  the  simplest  type  of  tlat  valance  will  be  de- 
scribed here.  A  simple  sliape  shoukl  be  chosen  with  few  or  no 
cun^es.  A  pattern  Ls  cut  from  heavy  paper  and  fitted  carefully 
to  the  window  over  the  rod  or  other  fixture  to  which  it  is  to  be 
fastened*  The  heavy  cotton  or  canvas  lining  is  then  cut.  Can- 
vas 18  better  than  buckram,  }>ecause  the  latter  is  likely  to  crack 
or  l)ecorne  limp  in  damp  weatlier.  The  canvas  form  is  laid  on 
the  table  and  the  lining  basted  carefully  on  it,  a  little  tighter 
from  left  to  right  than  the  canvas,  if  the  valance  is  to  go  on  a 
curved  rod.  The  lining  is  laiil  on  the  gootls  on  a  table.  If  the 
lobrtc  18  figured,  the  pattern  should  be  studied  carefully,  to  be 


74 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


sure  that  the  figuj^es  come  in  the  right  plarp.  The  goods  shouM 
be  cut  1  inch  larger  all  around  than  the  lining.  In  basting 
the  oiilsidf'  to  the  stifTciied  linirig,  it  should  he  as  much  looser 
than  the  (^anvtks  as  tli(*  lining  is  tighter^  in  order  that  the  valance 
may  fit  well  around  the  curve  of  the  rod. 

Such  a  valance  may  be  finisheti  by  a  gimp  or  cord  or  other 
slight  finish »  It  may  be  hung  from  a  ? 4 -inch  l>oard  fastenetl  to 
the  top  of  the  trim,  and  projecting  3  or  4  inehei;  from  the  wall. 
The  shaped  valance  is  seldom  retiuired  for  home-made  curtains. 

Portieres. 

Draperies  for  doors  are  made  in  the  same  general  way  aa 
those  for  windows*  They  are  often  of  heavy  material  and  are 
sometimes  lined.  The  puri>ose  of  the  lining  is  often  to  furnish 
a  contrasting  hanging  for  the  rwmi  on  the  other  side.  When  the 
rod  is  fastened  to  the  door  jamb  as  high  as  |x>ssible,  the  run  for 
the  hanging  may  convejdcntly  l*e  made  at  the  top.  If  a  heiiding 
is  desired,  the  rod  shoukl  be  placed  lower.  When  portieres  are 
hung  on  the  outside  of  the  trim,  a  heading  may  be  used  or 
not. 

Portieres  may  be  hung  by  rings,  or  by  hooks.  A  French 
heading,  with  French  hooks,  may  be  used  on  a  portiere  that  13 
to  be  hung  on  the  trim.  The  French  heading  is  made  by  taking 
up  three  tucks  or  plaits  which  may  be  '7*  inch  in  depth,  or  more 
if  the  material  is  heavy.  The  plaits  should  be  stitched  across 
214  01*  3  inches  from  the  top.  The  French  hook  is  attached  at 
the  bottom  of  the  heading.  The  hook  then  fastens  into  the  ring 
which  fits  the  rod. 

Floor  coverings  fl 

Only  modem  rugs  of  domestic  or  foreign  manufacture  will 
he  considered  here,  as  the  choice  Oriental  rugs  are  not  within 
the  compass  of  the  average  purse  and  the* ability  to  select  these 
wisely  i^  acquired  onlj-  by  k>ng  study  and  ex|x*rience. 

The  functions  of  eil  her  a  carpet  or  rug  are  to  protect  the  floor, 
to  obviate  noise,  to  give  warmth  in  !>oth  fact  and  efTect^  and  to 
add  a  decorative  note  to  the  rcjom.  To  protect  tlie  floor  in 
much-used  rooms,  ruga  should  cover  the  larger  part  of  the  floor. 


I 
I 


HOME  FURNISHING  75 

If  a  number  of  small  nips  are  itsed,  they  should  ho  placed  where 
the  we^r  is  greatest — on  lines  of  travel,  before  a  fireplace,  a 
lounge,  a  l>ed,  or  a  dresser.  The  term  carpet  will  be  used  in 
this  connection  to  deal j^n ate  a  fabric  that  covers  the  floor  com- 
pletely; the  term  rug,  for  a  fabric  not  completely  covering  the 
floon 

Carpets. 

Carpets  are  not  i^  popular  at  the  present  time  as  rugs;  but ' 
with  the  home-maker,  fashion  should  not>  enter  into  the  con- 
sideration. A  carpet  with  small  iigurea  or  none,  covering  the 
entire  floor,  tends  to  make  a  room  look  larger,  and  to  unify  the 
color  scheme;  it  contributes  to  the  warmth  and  quiet  of  a  room, 
and  in  an  old  or  cold  house  may  serve  to  offset  a  poor  floor. 
A  perfectly  plain  carpet  usually  called  ''filling'^  may  l)e  ol> 
tained  in  ingrain  and  other  weaves  to  cover  the  entire  floor  and 
serve  as  a  background  for  rugs.  With  a  vacuum  cleaner  it 
should  be  entirely  possible  to  use  carpets  and  be  hygienic. 

Rugs. 

Rug3  serv'e  all  the  piuposes  of  a  carpet  and  are  in  general 
much  more  easily  cared  for  and  more  adaptalile  decoratively. 
Even  a  large  rug,  when  rolled  on  a  pole,  can  be  easily  moved  in 
and  out  for  cleaning.  For  temporary  homes,  rugs  are  a  wiser 
investment  than  carpets  because  they  are  more  easily  adjusted 
to  different  floor  spaces. 

Color,  as  in  other  fiunishings,  is  the  first  point  to  consider 
in  the  selection  of  a  rug.  The  rug  preferably  should  be  of 
about  the  same  value  as  the  floor,  so  that  it  may  tone  with  it, 
making  no  sevei'e  or  obtrusive  contrast.  In  the  case  of  a  floor 
that  is  too  light  but  that  may  not  l>c  darkened,  the  lesser  of 
tw^o  evils  is  to  compromise  by  choosing  a  rug  considerably 
darker  than  the  floor.  The  floor  is  the  base  of  the  room,  the 
foundation  on  which  the  furnituie  rests,  the  background 
against  which  it  is  seen.  Colors  relatively  dark  contribute  to 
an  effect  of  solidity.  In  must  be  continually  repeated  that  neu- 
tral effects  serve  best  as  backgrounds.    The  safest  coloring  per- 


76  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKfXG 

hape  is  the  one  similar  or  analogotLs  to  the  prtn^ailing  colcir  of  the 
walb;  but  a  complementary  or  contrasting  colou  if  Hy 

neutralized  and  if  repeated  elsewhere  in  tije  r*»om,  tn.v/  __  ^  j^ 
with  excellent  effect.  A  plain  rug  with  a  self-toned  bolder  is  in 
general  a  good  choice. 

If  the  rug  is  to  be  subjected  to  very  hard  wcar^  a  pattern  will 
make  the  wear  less  evident.  A  rup^  with  an  unobtruj^ive  pattern, 
preferaljly  with  small  geometric  figures  that  "read**  from  every 
direction,  or  a  very  conventional  nature  motif  with  no  strong 
contrasts  in  value,  i*  likely  to  ki*ep  its     *  a  background 

better  than  a  rug  with  large  pattern,  ii  is^  or  intricate 

ostentatious  bonier.  Such  rugs  assert  themselves  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  other  furnishings  and  tend  to  make  the  room  seem 
crowded.  Healiistic  flowers  or  animals,  trees  or  houses,  are  out 
of  place  in  patte^m. 

The  best  size  and  proportion  for  rugs  is  determined  by  the 
room  and  its  furnishings.  In  the  average  room,  a  relatively 
large  rug  proportioned  to  the  size  and  shape  of  the  room  is  a 
satisfactory  choice.  Between  two  and  three  feet,  or  in  a  very 
large  room  even  a  wider  nmririn,  of  bare  tttmr  may  be  left  on 
e^ch  edge;  tlie  rug  thus  answers  every  purpose  of  a  rug,  clears 
the  furniture,  and  is  ea^sily  cared  for.  Tlie  size,  number,  and 
placing  of  rugs  should  be  studied  in  relation  to  the  other  fur^ 
nishings  of  the  room,  since  they  play  an  important  part  in  the 
whole  design. 

There  is  a  wide  variety  of  textures  and  weaves  on  the  market. 
It  is  imix>ssible  to  suggest  with  any  defmiteness,  the  weave  or 
manufacture  to  bu.v.  The  texture  or  quality  should  above  all 
Ije  appropriate  to  the  room  in  which  it  is  to  be  used;  a  rag  rug 
may  be  the  licst  choice  for  a  IxKlroom  or  even  for  a  living-room 
in  a  simply  furnished  country  house.  He4ivy  Wilton  or  Ax* 
minsters  or  velvets  with  deep  pile  are  too  suggestive  of  luxury 
to  be  used  in  modern  simple  homes.  Since  rugs  are  always  t<» 
be  walked  upon,  they  should  above  all  l>e  dural»le,  A  reliable 
dealer  who  handles  standard  makes  of  rugs  should  be  selected, 
and  his  judgment  trusted  as  to  the  wearing  qualities  of  his 
goods. 


I 
I 

I 


HOME  FUHMSflLW 


Linoleum, 

For  hard  and  continuous  wear,  such  as  on  the  floors  of  kitch- 
ens, passages,  and  dining-rooms,  on  (arms  or  for  large  families, 
linoleum  makej^  a  very  satisfactory  covering.  A  good  quality 
of  linoleum  is  about  as  durable  as  wood*  Its  pliability,  elastic- 
ity, and  quietness  especially  recommend  it  for  rooms  in  which 
there  is  much  walking:  or  standing.  Since  it  comes  in  wide 
lengths,  a  linoleum  door  ha^  practically  no  seams  or  joints  to 
catch  the  dirt  and  can,  therefore,  l>e  considered  a  very  sanitary 
material  Battleship  linoleum,  plain  brown  in  color,  often 
.tones  in  acceptably  with  woodwork  and  furniture,  A  few  other 
good  plain  colors  are  procurable.  For  the  kitchen,  a  modest 
inlaid  or  a  granite  pattern  is  by  many  considered  more  cleanly 
in  appearance,  A  similar  choice  of  pattern  in  light  colors  is 
alao  appropriate  for  l)athrooms. 

A  good  grade  of  linoleum  is  not  cheap^  but  its  lasting  qualities 
repay  the  initial  expense.  Cheap  grades  are  not  in  the  long  run 
a  good  investment, 

A  linoleum  floor  should  be  laid  by  the  firm  from  whom  it  is 
purchased.  The  inconvenience  attendant  on  the  proper  laving 
of  a  linoleum  floor  most  1^  l>orne  patiently,  bet^ause  it  must  be 
kept  in  the  form  of  loose  pieces  until  it  has  adjusted  itself  to  the 
fiatJiess  of  the  floor,  tfip  temperature  of  the  rooni^  and  the  space 
which  it  is  to  fill 

Since  the  marks  made  by  furniture  show  up  badly  on 
a  new  linoleum,  the  pressure  of  heavy  pieces  should  be  re- 
lieved by  little  blocks  under  the  legs  while  the  lifinleum 
is  new;  but  as  the  surface  becomes  harder  through  care 
and  axposure,  it  will  be  found  to  stand  Ijetter  the  necessary 
wear. 

Cork  carpet 

Cork  carpet,  a  floor  covering  similar  to  linoleum  in  wearing 
qualities,  but  with  more  of  a  surface  texture,  can  be  ob- 
tained in  a  nuralx^r  of  plain  tones.  Like  linoleum  it  can  be 
iL^HJ  pleasingly  even  in  living-rooms  as  a  background  for 
rugs. 


78  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

Wood^feneer  carpel, 

A  wood-veneer  carpet  of  inconspinuoLis  patt^Tn  laid  over  an 
old  floor  is  also  a  very  durable  and  satisfat^tory  baekgroimd 
for  mp?,  Japanese  matting  of  fine  weave,  thoiipjh  liM:ht  io  eolor 
can  be  made  to  take  the  place  of  a  liare  wood  floor  e^^fjeoially 
in  bedrooms  or  rooms  where  white  or  light  painted  wood  is 
used. 

Ingrain  filling. 

Ingrain  filling  or  other  plain  carpets  may  also  Ix;  used  as  a 
background  for  rugs  in  the  absence  of  a  good  wood  floor. 

FURNITCRK  (Plates  VI-IX  and  Figs.  24-29). 

Furniture  is  perhaps  the  most  distinctive  of  all  the  movable 
furnishings  of  the  home.  Well-made  furniture  is  very  duralile 
and  should,  therefore,  be  Beleuted  with  the  care  which  perma- 
nence calls  for.  Furniture  of  relial.jle  workmanship  and  made 
from  choice  material  is  rarely  cheap,  I  nit  is  the  best  investment 
in  the  end.  If  the  family  purse  is  limited,  it  is  better  to  buy  at 
the  start  the  few  essential  pieces  and  to  add  to  these  from  time 
to  time.  No  article  of  furniture  should  be  purchased  unless 
a  need  for  it  exists^  and  then  the  one  that  will  best  fill  that  need 
should  be  sought  for  until  it  is  found.  At  the  time  uf  purchasci 
each  article  should  be  judged  on  its  intrinsic  merits  and  its 
adaptabihty  to  the  neeil  and  place  t  !iat  it  is  to  fill. 

The  fimdamental  considerations  in  the  selection  of  furniture 
are  three:  the  function  or  use  of  the  article  selected;  its  construc- 
tion and  design;  and  its  relation  to  the  room  and  other  furnish- 
ings. 

Function, 

The  usefulness  of  a  piece  of  furniture  is  paramount  to  every 
other  consideration.  For  example*  a  chair  of  whatever  materials 
constructed,  Is  made  to  sit  in.  If  it  does  not  answer  this  use 
comfortably,  it  is  utterly  unworthy  a«  a  seat.  In  it^  simplest 
form  a  chair  has  a  seat,  legs,  and  back,  but  it  is  often  developed 
into  forms  with  arms,  rungs,  rockers,  and  upholstery  as  well 


d 


Fio.  24.— A  group  of  typical  side  chairs  of  Bubstantial  and  plraning  form*  and 
of  varied  finiab.  From  thciiG,  fleiectionis  might  \w  umde  for  dining-room, 
UvinR-room,  or  hall. 


80  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


H 


FtCi.  25.— Four  good  tabic  forms  for  uBts  la  dmiug-ruom  or  Ubraiy. 

Eveti  tlu*  most  elementary  t^^ie  should  afTon!  a  seat  wide  enough 
to  aeconimoclate  the  lx»dy  comfortably,  should  have  legs  of  a 
height  that  allow  the  feet  of  the  occupant  to  rest  easily  upon  the 
floor,  and  a  back  that  accords  with  the  curve  of  the  spine.  These 
requirements  wotild  seem  so  obvious  as  not  to  netnl  mention, 
were  it  not  so  rare  to  find  them  all  combint»<l  in  one  chair.  Since 
the  adult  members  of  a  mkgle  family  may  vary  greatly  in  height, 


Plate  VI, — Good  typ&*  of  desks  and  sideboards. 


HOME  FimmSBING 


81 


size,  and  proporlion,  no  exact  rule  as  to  the  measoremeiits  of 
chairs  can  be  formulated.  In  general,  however,  the  seat  of  an 
ordinary  straight  chair  should  measure  from  15  to  20  inches 
across  the  front  and  may  be  usually  2  or  3  inches  narrower  at 
the  back.  In  heis^ht  the  seat  may  be  from  lo  fo  20  inches  from 
the  floor,  inclining  slightly  backwards.  The  lower  the  seat,  the 
greater  should  be  its  deptli;  and  conversely,  the  higher  the 
seat,  the  more  shallow  its  deptlu  The  height  of  tlie  I  tack 
from  the  seat  may  vary  from  12  to  30  inches.  Arms  should  be 
of  a  hei^id  to  support  the  arm  of  the  occupant  comfortably — 
alx>ut  10  inches  usuall^^  from  the  seat.  Rails  or  slats  or  ban- 
uisters  in  the  chair-back  should  iie  tested  with  reference  to  the 
ribs  and  shoulder-bkitles  of  the  user.  Rungs  are  usually  added 
for  strengtli,  but  a  well-made  chair  may  Ije  quite  adequate  to 
its  purpose  without  them. 

The  varying  purposes  for  wliicli  chairs  are  used  are  another 
element  in  the  decision,  A  sewing  chair,  a  slipper  chair,  and 
a  nursery  rocker  are  preferably  low.  A  short-backeil  chair  is 
convenient  for  a  dressing-table  or  for  the  kitchen,  A  chair  for 
lounging  may  i>e  as  deep  and  higli-!)aeke<l  and  as  luxuriously 
upholstered  as  the  user  fancies .  No  chair  is  good  that  is  not 
comfortable  in  service. 

With  a  table  also,  the  first  thought  of  the  buyer  should  be 
its  use,  A  dining-table,  a  tatile  for  the  lilirary,  a  sewing-tal>le, 
a  table  for  bedroom,  hall,  or  kitchen,  each  has  a  special  service 
to  render  and  shoultl  be  chosen  with  that  service  in  mind.  Every 
table,  however,  should  be  stable. 

A  bureau,  a  chest,  a  sideboard,  or  any  container  should  be 
thought  of  in  terms  of  the  storage  space  afforded  anti  facility  of 
access  to  that  space;  doors  should  open  and  shut  easily;  drawers 
should  run  smoothly. 

ConMr^uction  and  demgn. 

The  first  requirements  in  construction  are  strength  and  du- 
rability* These  are  essential  elements  also  for  efficient  service. 
Good  furniture  must  be  sincerely  l>yi!t  from  honest  material, 
should  be  designed  for  a  definite  purpose,  and  should  avoid 


A 


82 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Fio.  2(1. — Types  of  Colonial  chairs,  usually  developed  ia  mahogany  or  cherry, 
which  may  be  found  iu  gorxl  rrproduoUoDA.  1,  4  and  0»  Chippendale;  2 
and  3»  Sheraton;  5,  Hepplewhite, 


superfluous  ornament  and  shiny  varnished  finishes.  The  con- 
struction of  fumityre  should  l>e  evident;  that  is,  the  necessary 
upright  and  horizontal  elements  should  not  l>e  distorted  by 
cun^es  and  ornament  that  impair  the  function  of  the  members. 
Variations  in  contour,  such  as  low  flowing  curves,  should  accord 
with  the  main  outlines.  Of  all  the  necessary  pieces  of  furniture, 
chairs  and  seats  are  the  freest  in  form  and  may  deviate  farthest 


HOME  FURXISHING 


8S 


froin  straight-line  dasign.  Curved  lines  and  rolling  contours 
adjust  tlienLselvcs  easily  to  the  human  form  and  are  usually 
more  comfortable  than  the  ri^id  lines  of  straight  chairs.  This 
does  not  imply,  however,  that  fantastic  shapes  are  justifiable. 

Since  no  piece  of  furniture  is  stronger  than  its  weakest  joint, 
it  is  important  to  observe  that  a!l  joints  be  .strong  and  genuine 
evTii  though  hidden.  The  legitimate  use  of  screws,  wedges, 
antt  glue  has  brought  aliout  such  sound  and  inconspicuous  join- 
er}^ that  tliere  is  no  longer  any  excuse  for  wobbly,  insecure  furni- 
ture. In  general,  the  tendency  of  modern  furniture  design  is 
toward  easily  movable  forms  such  as  metal  beds,  closets  instead 
of  wardrobes,  and  varioiis  types  of  reeil  and  willow  furniture* 

The  parts  of  whicii  furniture  is  composed  should  seem  reason- 
able for  the  function  which  they  are  to  perform.  The  legs  of 
chairs  and  tables  shouki  not  !je  heavy  enough  for  porch  posts 
like  those  in  some  piece:^  of  mission  furniture,  nor  should  they 
be  frail  and  ** ladylike"  as  in  the  case  of  the  little  gilt  parlor 
chair. 

The  w^oods  most  used  in  modern  furniture  are  ash,  oak,  ma- 
hogany, walnut,  and  other  woods  finisheil  to  imitate  these, 
also  pine  and  whitewooil  for  painted  pieces.  Bird's-eye  maple 
and  curly  birch,  being  sport  growths,  shouki  not  be  used  as  a 
structural  furniture  wood,  t)f  these  woofts,  oak  is  heavy,  durable, 
susceptible  to  color  modifications,  easily  kept  in  good  condition, 
of  a  sturdy  character,  appropriate  to  everyday  conditions,  and 
not  too  expensi%^e.  Maliogany  is  tlurable,  but  needs  much  care, 
is  too  '^dressy*'  in  appearance  for  the  stress  of  modern  daily 
life,  and  is  not  so  adaptable,  except  in  its  browner  tones,  to  usual 
color  schemes.  Contrary  to  the  usual  belief t  there  is  oo  intrin- 
sic merit  in  the  fact  that  a  piece  of  modern  furniture  is  called 
mahogany.  Many  of  the  best  looking  pieces  are  only  birch 
stained  red,  or  if  made  of  the  genuine  wood  are  often  less  at- 
tractive than  their  birch  substitutes.  Only  in  antique  pieces, 
valuable  because  they  are  good  and  not  because  they  are  old, 
and  in  modern  copies  or  adaptations  of  Ene  design  and  finish, 
is  the  real  sentiment  anri  beauty  of  mahogany  pres^i^rvcnl.  In 
general,  oak  is  the  most  representative  wood  for  modern  furni- 


84 


A   MANUAL  OF  IIOME-MAKIMG 


■V 


Fig.  27. —Com  for  table  arm-chairs  for  i?cncnil  use. 

ture,  just  as  black  walnut  was  the  typical  woofi  in  our  mothers* 
day  and  mahopany  in  the  day  of  our  grandmothers. 

The  finish  of  all  woods  should  Im  soft  and  ihlll,  ruhlied,  not 
varnished,  A  shiny  polish  is  often  u^ed  to  hide  blemishes  in  the 
wood  and  is  of  a  nature  pertaining  more  to  metals  and  to  glass 
than  fo  wood. 


Plate    VIL— T>T>ea  of   furniture  ugly   in   proportion  ^  erratic   in   line,  over- 
decorated  in  finish,  that  should  be  avoided. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


There  is  much  good  painted  or  enameled  furnitiire.  It  lends 
itself  to  charming  and  unusual  color  schemes.  This  finish 
is  especially  appropriate  with  the  light  clean  effects  so  suitable 
in  bedrooms  in  country  homesi  and  in  rooms  with  painted 
trim. 

Willow,  because  of  its  elasticity,  is  an  excellent  material 
for  seats,  but  not  appropriate  for  tables,  desks,  beds  and  other 
furniture  forms  in  wltich  firntness  and  smoothness  are  essential 
qualities.  Though  not  so  dural>Ie  as  wood,  willow  is  light  in 
weight,  has  unlimited  color  possibilities,  and  fits  satisfactorily 
into  many  var>'ing  types  of  furnishings.  The  simple  designaj 
are  always  the  best. 

Uphohtery, 

Well-disposed  springs  and  padding  add  much  to  the  comfort 
of  a  lounge  or  chair,  and  a  textile  covering  may  contribute  most 
attractive  notes  to  the  color  scheme  of  a  room.  Upholstered 
chairs  with  a  well-built  frame  that  is  frankly  evident,  are  the 
best  choice.  Fat-looking,  dimpled,  padded,  buttoned,  and 
fringed  upholstery  should  be  avoided.  Too  often  it  covers  weak 
construction.  Upholstery  furnishes  a  gornj  opportunity  to 
amalgnmate  the  various  colors  in  a  room,  such  as  the  contrasting 
coloJ's  of  walls  and  hangings,  or  to  emphasize  one  of  these,  or  to 
introduce  new  colors  that  will  enliven  an  otherwise  monotonous 
room-,  or  to  distriliute  the  color  interests  when  there  is  too  much 
color  miisscd  on  one  ?side  of  a  room,  as  sometimes  results  from  a 
series  of  door  and  window  draperies. 

For  ordinary  home  use,  plain,  striped,  or  figured  fabrics  are 
more  appropriate  than  leather,  which  finds  it.s  best  use  in  offices ] 
and  men^s  louni^fing  rooms. 

A  sicmderly  built  chair  should  not  be  upholstered  in  a  large 
figuj*ed,  strong-colored  fabric.  A  chair  or  any  other  furni- 
ture may  be  excellent  in  design  with  no  decoration.  Any 
decoration  should  Ive  an  integral  part  of  the  whole  design,  an 
outgrowth  of  tlie  construction,  a  refinement  of  the  propor- 
tions, or  an  emphasis  of  an  essential  element  by  a  bit  of 
enrichment,         • 


"Il'lllllll 


Fio.  28, — Three  eood  forms  of  ccmrht«.  Top.  a  willow  davenport,  comfortable, 
reasoQubtc  in  prictv  and  f*iusily  moved.  tVnti-T,  a  type  of  uphoUtcred 
dftv<^nport  excceditjjily  contfortabln  hut  likely  to  be  rostiy.  Bottom,  an 
itiexpensivr  box-couch  iirr»Tni«_'mrnt  thiit  may  be  mmle  both  eomfortablc 
and  attractive  by  the  use  of  good  ^pnags,  upholstery,  and  cuiihioiis. 


I 


I 


i 


HOME  FURNISHING 


Flo.  29. — Typirnl  siimll  Inbles  of  gfxj«i  fomi  and  finish  from  which  n  suitab 
splwtion  ntight  lie  made  for  varioua  typia  of  living-room,   bedrooin,  or 
porch. 


^^ 


88 


.1    MA.WUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Relation  to  other  furntHkings, 

To  secure  a  honiogeneouH  result  in  house  furnishing,  the  fit- 
nesii  of  each  purchase  should  Ik»  thought  of  in  relation  to  the  room 
in  wliich  it  is  to  p;o  anil  in  relation  to  the  other  furnishings  of 
that  room.  As  has  l^een  pr(^viously  pointed  out,  tlie  proportion 
of  furoiture  hiis  a  notable  elTect  on  the  apparent  proportion  of 
the  room:  vcr>'  large  pieces  of  furniture  seem  to  crowd  a  small 
room;  vory  small  pieces,  unles8  groupcnJ,  appear  dwarfed  in  a 
large  r<»om» 

Fiuiiiturc*  slioulil  he  seleeted  of  a  material  that  will  harmonize 
with  the  woodwork.  Oak  is  the  best  choice  for  a  room  fmished 
in  oak  or  in  the  woods  hnished  in  a  color  similar  to  oak,  asftsh, 
chestnut,  or  even  cypress.  The  modern  market  produces  such 
a  wide  range  of  design  in  oak  furniture  of  difl'erent  finishes  and 
prices  as  to  make  an  appropriate  choice  for  such  a  room  com- 
paratively simple. 

Mahogany  or  painted  or  willow  furniture  afhliates  better 
than  does  oak  with  painted  woodwork,  especially  if  painted  in 
ivory  or  white  or  light  toners.  Oak  aiul  mahogany  are  so  at  vari- 
ance in  character  and  texture  that  they  will  not  mix.  Willow 
and  paintcil  furniture  afTording  great  variety  in  form  and  color 
will  hi  well  together. 

Pictures 

Contrary'  to  the  usual  belief,  pictures  ai-e  not  indii^pensable 
in  a  well-furnished  room.  1  f  (hi*  wall  spaces  are  not  too  large  and 
bare»  if  the  walls  are  paneled  or  have  an  interesting  covering, 
or  if  the  draperies  in  ihe  room  are  noticeably  decorative  in  color 
or  pattern,  pictures  ntay  be  superiluous. 

However,  if,  as  often  hapix?ns  in  i*ooms  with  plain  walls,  a 
problem  is  presented  l>y  targe  empty  spaces,  a  wise  use  of  gtxnl 
pictures  presents  a  solution.  Such  pictui^s  Ix^ing  steady  com- 
panions should  be  selcctcfl  for  their  intrinsic*  worth  of  subject, 
color,  and  composition.  Good  photographs  in  brown  or  gray 
tones  of  most  of  the  world's  masterpieces  may  l>e  obtained  for  a 
reasonable  price.  Some  good  color  prints  from  both  old  and 
new  masters  ai'e  also  available.     Even  a  groi^p  of  magazine 


I 


I 

I 
I 


Platk  VIIL— a  few  excellent  types  of  mirrore  and  footr«tool»  that  Are  botJi 

serviceable  and  d[K»>rative. 


I 


HOME  FURNISHING 


89 


prints,  similar  in  size  and  tiarnionious  in  color,  may  l>e  a  worthy 
contribution  to  the  decorative  scheme  of  the  room.  These  are 
far  better  than  amateur  efTorts  with  paints  or  crayon. 

A  gtxjti  pie  to  re  deserv^&s  a  gow!  frame.  The  frame  serves 
to  protect  the  picture  and  to  enhance  its  appearance,  but  should 
never  be  so  large^  ornate  or  obtrusive  as  to  assert  itself  at  the 
expense  of  the  (licture.  A  frame  for  a  mirror  may  appropriately 
be  more  decorative;  the  eontrollinp:  thought  in  selecting  such  a 
frame  is  its  fitness  to  the  wall  and  other  fyrnishings.  The  width, 
style^  and  color  of  the  frame  must  be  suited  to  the  picture. 
Light  picture.s,  like  etchings  and  many  water  colors,  look  best 
framed  in  iigld,  delicate  moldings,  with  or  without  a  mat,  as 
the  case  may  ret^iiiire.  Photograi>h.s  in  gray  or  brown  tones 
stand  a  heavier,  darker  frame  tooed  to  accord  with  the  picture. 
Colored  pictures  often  look  well  in  gilt  frames,  but  the  gilt 
should  be  dulled  and,  hkc  the  frame  of  wood,  should  be  toned 
to  harmonize  with  the  picture.  If  the  frame  aloiie  floes  not 
eufficiently  isolate  the  picture,  a  mat  of  !iarmonizing  color  may 
be  used.  Strong  contracts  between  frame,  mat,  and  picture, 
such  as  is  frequently  seen  in  photograph  or  engraving  surrounded 
bj^  a  white  mat  and  black  frame,  should  he  avoided;  they  are  too 
assertive  to  take  a  place  in  any  color  scheme. 

The  size  and  proportion  of  pictures  should  be  adjusted  to 
the  wall  spaces;  a  tall  picture  in  a  vertical  space,  a  broad  pic- 
ture in  a  horizontal  space,  or  a  coml>ination  of  these  so  ar- 
ranged as  to  form  groups  of  pleasing  proportions.  Pictures  rec- 
tangular in  shape  hannonize  better  with  the  structiind  masses 
than  round  or  oval  ]>ictures.  Strong  contrasts  of  color  and  value 
between  wall  and  picture  tend  to  destroy  tlie  liarmony  between 
the  picture  and  its  setting.  Dark  pictures  on  a  light  wall,  light 
pictures  on  a  dark  wall,  assert  themselves  unduly.  The  general 
tone  of  the  picture  shoultl  l>e  related  to  that  of  the  w^atl 

A  few  general  points  should  be  remembered  in  the  hanging 
of  pictures.  They  should  Im^  hung  flat  against  the  wall,  not 
tilted  out  from  it;  they  should  be  fastened  securely  to  ttie  wall 
or  suspended  from  the  picture-molding  by  two  parallel  vertical 
wires.     The  height  of  the  pictures  should  be  related  to  the 


I 
I 


90  A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


level  of  the  e^'e^  unrl  in  f^enera!  either  the  tops  or  bottoms  of 
the  franic»s  should  he  at  the  same  distance  from  the  floor,  unless 
a  pirture  appeal's  l>etter  hung  in  relation  to  some  piece  of 
furniture,  such  sa^  a  desk  or  bookcase.  Pictures  are  often  hung 
too  high. 


i 


Oilier  fumir&hing  accessama 

Wiilc  some  small  furnislungK  have  a  distinct  use  and  may 
introduce  tfie  one  dccorati\'e  note  needed  to  complete  the 
scheme,  safety  lies  in  restraint.  These  small  things  should 
be  selected  with  as  nuich  care  as  the  larger  furnishings.  The 
lesson  of  sacrificing  lieirlooms,  mistaken  purchases,  and  even 
misfit  gifts  for  tho  sake  of  tlic  unity  of  the  whole  scheme  should 
be  early  learned.  Constructive  forms  with  lines  that  are 
slightly  curvetl  for  the  sake  of  grace  while  the  general  direction 
of  suppfjft  or  econonne  outline  is  kept,  are  pleasing.  Wliatever 
is  addeit  \)y  way  of  ornanxent  must  follow  or  fit,  not  conceal, 
this  structural  shape.  Miisses  of  decoration  applied  without  re- 
gard to  the  form,  cheapen  the  appearance  and  coafiL^  the 
intent  of  the  object. 

In  the  choosing  of  a  clock,  a  clearly  marked  rlial  and  a  support- 
ing case  of  pleasing  contour  and  form  are  the  essential  considera- 
tions. The  general  design  will  vao'  according  as  the  clock  is 
intended  to  stand  on  the  mantel  or  the  HfK>r  or  to  be  affixed 
to  the  wall. 

The  real  function  of  a  vase  is  to  serve  iis  a  container  for 
flowers.  The  design  of  the  vase  should,  therefore,  anticipate 
the  flower,  though  it  may  l>e  so  distinguished  in  color  and  form 
m  to  be  by  itself  a  decorative  note  in  a  room.  The  color  or 
decoration  on  the  vase  should  not  attempt  to  compete  with 
the  flower. 

Lamps  are  indispensable  to  comfort,  whether  oil,  gas,  or 
electricity  is  used  for  illumination,  and  are  one  of  the  most 
decorative  am!  intimate  features  in  a  furnishing  scheme.  Throe 
elements  enter  into  the  design  of  lamps;  the  light,  its  shade, 
and  its  support.  The  support  should  fjoth  be  and  appear 
adequate  for  its  use  and  should  harmonize  both  in  size  and 


4 

lay   ■ 
the    ■ 


HO^fE  FURXISHING 


dl 


shape  with  the  shade.  Broad  ba.sc,s  or  lieavy  bowU  give  stability 
to  the  design  of  a  lamp.  Metal  and  pottery  are  eminently  suit* 
able  materiuls  for  lamp  standards.  The  height  of  the  lamp  and 
the  flare  of  the  shade  should  Ix*  related  to  the  space  that  is  to 
be  lighted.  Tall  lamps  with  !>road  flaring  shades  illuminate 
a  large  circle,  while  low  lamps  and  snug  shades  confine  the 
Ught  to  small  are^is  (Fig.  30), 

In  general,  warm  or  yellowish  tones  for  shades  are  more 
genial  and  more  in  keeping  with  the  idea  of  lij^ht  than  are  cool 
colors;  they  are  also  more  becoming.    Paper  or  parchment  and 


Fio.  30.— <jood  types  of  lamps  witli  subdia^tml  ba^iefl  and  attractive  shadea 
that  &re  serviceable  m  use. 

fabrics  are  leas  stiff  in  material  and  more  flexible  in  color  scheme 
than  are  glass  and  metal  for  shades.  C'omplex  shapes  and 
milhnery  treatment  for  shades  should  be  avoided. 

The  waste-basket  serves  a  humble  but  important  use*  It 
should  be  so  made  as  to  stand  hnnly,  conceal  its  contents,  and 
be  unobtrusive  in  color  and  design. 

Sofa  pillows  are  valuable  if  they  are  useful.  Plain  or  figured 
materials  of  agreeable  texture,  harmonizing  with  the  general 
coloring  of  the  room^  arc  more  decorative  than  those  elaborately 
made. 

The  much -abused  tidy  has  in  a  few  cases  a  real  use  in  pro- 
tecting the  backs  of  upholstered  chairs  from  the  hair;  it  should 
be  trim  in  outline,  of  washable  material,  of  inconspicuous  color, 
and  fastened  securely  in  place. 


92 


^t   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Merc  curiasities  giiould  be  kept  in  a  closed  cabinet  or 
museum. 

ARRANGEMENT  OP   FURNISHINGS   (FIOS.    31-33) 

The  character  of  every  room  should  be  obvious  at  the  momenF 
of  entrance.  It  shouJd  be  ininiediately  evident  whether  the 
rmim  in  question  is  used  for  a  family  gathering  room,  for  literary" 
or  social  pursuits,  a  playroom,  or  a  workroom.  All  parts  of 
the  room  should  contribute  to  this  simpkj  and  sustained  im- 
pression. It  is  for  the  moment  a  complete  picture  in  which  no 
one  object  comjx'ls  undue  attention  because  of  conspicuous 
size,  color,  or  decoration.    Unity  is  the  whole  idea. 

The  contents  of  the  room  should  show  first  of  all,  orderliness 
of  arrangement.  The  distribution  of  the  furnishings  should 
be  adjusted  to  the  struct  oral  lines  of  the  room;  rugs  parallel 
with  the  walls  of  the  room,  dra|)eries  hanging  in  straight  folds 
in  rectangular  openings,  tablea,  couches,  bookcases,  beds, 
bureaus,  and  dressers  following  and  fitting  the  available  wall 
spaces.  Pictures,  sinfi;Ie  or  ^ouped,  arranged  with  threct 
relation  to  the  furniture  and  to  a  conlinuous  line  of  a  given 
height,  table  runners  and  books  straight  with  the  library  table, 
square  lunch  cloths  and  doilies  straight  with  the  edges  of  the 
dining*tal>le, — all  are  manife^stations  of  order  in  arrangement* 
Diagonal  lines  iiitroiluced  l>y  curtains  loo]>ed  l>ack,  rugs  askew 
on  the  Boor,  furniture  placed  across  the  corners,  or  at  oblique 
angles  to  the  wall,  pictures  hanging  in  steps,  set  at  defiance  the 
rectangular  lines  of  the  room  and  disturb  tlie  sense  of  order. 

The  furnishings  of  the  room  should  Ix*  so  arranged  as  not 
to  crowd  all  the  intc*ii:'st  on  one  or  two  walls,  leaving  the  other 
parts  of  the  room  empty  and  dead.  Instead,  the  interest  should 
be  distributed  throughout  the  room  by  a  balanced  arrangement. 
For  example,  heavy  features,  such  as  a  fireplace  on  one  side 
of  the  room,  may  l>e  balanced  by  a  long  davenfxirt  on  the  oppo- 
site side,  with  bookcase,  table,  and  desk  occupying  end  positions. 

The  next  step  is  to  consider  the  arrangement  of  furnishings 
from  the  standpoint  of  convenience  and  use.  The  comfort  of  a 
room  depends  on  the  grouping  of  the  pieces  that  ai-e  to  be  used 


I 
I 


I 


94 


.1    MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


together.  Thiiii  a  generoiLs  liWng-room  may  provide  a  hearth 
center,  a  reading  center,  a  music  center,  and  a  sewing  center  if 
the  furnishings  are  properly  grouped"  or,  in  the  case  of  a  bed- 
room, a  bed,  night  table,  and  lamp  might  form  one  group,  with 
dresser,  chair,  and  closet  in  another. 

The  arrangement  of  the  furnishings  depends  very  greatly 
on  the  location  of  windows  antl  doors.  The  good  light  necessary 
for  reading,  writing,  or  sewing  puts  a  premium  on  the  positions 
near  the  windows,  for,  while  thcMjretically  it  is  possilile  to  see 
in  all  parts  of  a  comfortalily  lighted  room,  the  direct  hght  from 
a  window  is  the  best  for  all  kinds  of  close  work.  The  furniture 
grouping  must,  therefore,  acijiist  itself  to  this  requirement. 
Desks  arranged  with  a  good  light  from  the  left  sirie,  the  prin- 
cipal reading  seats  within  comfortalile  distance  from  the  win- 
dows, and  adeciuate  lanij^s  or  lighting  fixtures  provided  where 
most  needed,  insure  satisfaction  in  this  respect. 

Care  should  also  be  taken  to  arrange' furniture  groups  away 
from  drafts  and  paths  of  travel  Bookcases^  cabinets,  and  the 
hke,  may  occupy  odd  bits  of  wall  in  locations  where  it  is  not 
comfortable  to  sit. 

Just  as  the  form  of  a  chair  may  be  less  rectangular  than 
other  pieces  of  furniture,  so  its  position  in  the  furnishing  scheme 
is  more  frw*  l^he  veiy  use  of  cfiairs  implies  tfiat  they  cannot 
in  general  occupy  fixed  positions,  with  the  exception  perhaps 
of  an  occasional  upholstered  or  straight -backed  chair,  Thia 
flexibility  of  chair  arrangements  introduces  enough  variety  to 
keep  the  room  from  looking  stiff.  Nothing  in  the  room  is  so 
insignificant  as  to  escajx?  the  ncHnl  of  thoughtful  placing;  vases, 
clocks,  lamps,  and  pictures,  all  are  elements  in  the  scheme. 

Arrangement,  however,  is  as  much  concerned  with  the  elimi- 
nation of  superfluous  features  as  with  the  proper  disposal  of 
the  essentials.  Souvenirs,  trinkets,  :md  family  photographs,  no 
matter  what  their  personal  significance,  cheapen  the  effect 
and  lessen  the  dignity  of  rooms  intended  for  general  use. 
A  room  is  a  good  de^sign  only  when  nothing  can  be  added 
and  nothing  can  l>e  taken  away  without  marring  its  com- 
pleteness. 


I 


HOME  FURNISHING 


95 


CHARACTER  OP  BOOMS  EXPRESSED  BY  FURNISHINGS 

The  hail,  living-room,  dining-room,  and  Ubrary,  if  there  is  one, 
represent  one  group  of  interests,  and  may  be  considered  to  form 
the  soeia!,  recreative,  or  living  area  of  the  house.  The  general 
character  of  these  rooms  should  be  spaciotts  and  decorative  in 
j&ffect.  Though  each  unit  of  this  i^roup  should  have  its  own  dis- 
tinctive character,  tliese  living-room^^,  on  account  of  their  inter- 
relation and  common  use,  should  show  some  harmony  in  color 
and  treatment. 

The  hall  is  the  threshold  of  the  house.  It  serves  as  an  intro- 
duction. This  first  impression  should  be  one  of  welcome  and 
dignity  and,  above  all,  of  order.  Good  light,  genial  colors  on 
the  walls  and  floor,  a  sense  of  free  space  for  the  passage  of  per- 
sons, an  aniple  provision  for  the  necessary  wraps  and  umbrellais 
in  a  tidy  and  concealed  form,  are  the  essential  characteristics 
of  a  well-coasidered  hall^  regardless  of  its  size.  If  a  regular 
coat  closet  is  not  provided  in  the  hall,  a  generous  rod  with  coat 
hangers  arranged  in  an  angle  behind  curtain  or  screen  ls  far 
neater  and  more  satisfactory  than  some  form  of  mongrel  hat 
rack  eA^pose<:l  to  vicw\ 

The  moval)le  furnishings  necessary  to  equip  the  hall  of  a 
dw^elling  for  its  use  are  very  few,  a  rug  on  the  floor,  carpet  on  the 
stairs,  a  chair  or  seat,  a  well-liglittHJ  mirror,  a  clock  perhaps, 
and  a  small  stand  with  drawers  for  gloves,  time-tables,  pad  and 
pencil,  and  other  incidentals.  Decorative  touches  may  Ije  intro- 
duced by  a  figured  wall  paper,  a  potted  plant,  or  a  spray  of 
flowers. 

The  character  of  the  modern  living-room  should  unite  the 
dignity  of  the  old-fashioned  parlor  and  the  genuine  homely 
quaUtie^s  of  the  old-time  sitting-room.  The  lai^ge  living-room 
of  the  modern  house  is  an  attempt  to  amalgamate  into  a  single 
space  the  interests  formerly  representerj  by  separate  rooms, 
such  as  reception-room,  music-room,  parlor,  sitting-room,  and 
library.  Its  character  should  accordingly  repi-et^ent  dignity, 
hospitality,  comfort,  and  recreation.  This  room  must  be  gen- 
eral not  personal,  in  its  decoration  and  furnishing.     Walls  and 


Fio.  32- — Top.  a  room  ahowijift  the  effect  in  furnishing  of  one  larnc  rug,  a 
ftreplfice  in  the  center  of  ono  Joiik  inside  watl,  und  ihv  other  furnUh* 
ing»  wpU  related  to  these.  Bottom*  a  room  abowing  a  good  urrangie* 
nictit  of  two  niBs:  o  fircpliice  io  tlie  »horl  injido  wall,  and  tlic  furniture 
weiJ  orrangeil  in  occti(>ational  venters. 


nrpfn 


V 


.Jl I 


li 


Plate  IX  — Sinirjl^-  nnd  aerv^c^aliJc  typpa  of  bedroom  furniture  that  may  be 
developeti  iu  ditlpreDt  woods  suitable  for  TOtmis  with  varying  finish.. 


HO^fE  FURNISHING 


97 


rugs  sufficiently  neutral  in  color  to  form  a  good  background, 
hamionioys  furnishings  adjusted  to  the  spacn  and  sixitalily 
arranged  for  the  interests  to  be  at'commodated,  and  a  method 
of  comfortal>le  lighting  both  by  day  and  by  night  are  the  essen- 
tial consideratioa.s.  The  position  of  such  struetoral  pieces  as 
the  fireplace  and  the  locatioo  of  the  windows  give  the  cue  to  the 
general  arrangement  for  the  room. 

The  selection  of  the  furnishings  in  each  case  will  depend  on 
%vhether  the  main  interests  of  the  household  are  youthful  or 
oiaturcj  studious  or  musical,  intkistrial  or  social. 

One  or  two  large  rugs  are  more  appropriate  for  tlie  living- 
room  than  a  number  of  small  ones.  Small  rugs  in  a  living- 
room  are  an  aggravation,  I>ecaujse  of  the  tendency  to  slip  about, 
turn  up  at  the  cornei*s,  and  give  a  scrappy  appearance  to  a  floor. 

In  general,  a  typical  living-room  for  general  family  use  should 
include  a  fireplace^  some  form  of  lounge,  Ixjokshelves,  a  generous 
table  with  lamp,  a  place  to  write,  and  plenty  of  comfortable 
chairs.  A  piano  or  victrola,  a  sewing-table,  small  or  folding 
tables  that  can  be  moved  around  to  serve  a  cup  of  tea  or  for 
games  and  the  likt%  rnay  also  be  needed.  Added  to  these  are  a 
number  of  small  furnishings  that  should  iie  thoughtfully  selected 
to  complete  the  comfort  of  the  occupants  as  the  room  is  used. 
Footstools  or  hassocks,  a  dictionary-stand,  lamps  and  candle- 
sticks, a  waste-l>asket,  a  neat  wooci-box  or  Ijasket,  a  few  pillows, 
a  vavse  or  two  for  fiowers^  a  clocks  are  all  wort  liy  adjuncts  to  the 
family  room.  A  place  should  also  be  provided  for  the  quick  dis- 
posal of  transient  paraphernalia,  such  as  father's  newspaper, 
mother's  mending,  and  the  children-s  toys. 

The  artificial  lighting  of  the  room  should  be  adjusted  to  the 
spaces  that  are  used  at  night.  A  general  diffitsion  of  light  over 
the  whole  space  can  be  provided  most  simply  by  some  central 
form  of  ceiling  hght.  In  addition  to  this,  lamps  will  be  needed 
for  reading  or  close  w^ork.  The  soft  light  of  candles  or  the  open 
fire  are  sufficient  when  t  he  room  is  used  only  for  conversation. 

The  character  of  a  dining-room  should  al>ove  all  be  cheerful. 
Eastern  windows  admitting  the  morning  sun,  light  colors  on 
the  walls,  plants  or  flowers,  arc  a  real  aid  to  good  digestion. 


98 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


lUWIH 


Iwiitw**  tiOt  roR.  t'lAHT*  in 

1 

<::^ 

i 

a 

TABl.ti' 

D 

J 

u 

1 

!— .   I 

1  All>t  BOA^ 

"1 1 

Kali. 


BU 


^n 


CHur«i 


MIM 


HAU* 


Fia.  33, — Top,  an  effective  ai>«3  logical  an-anicoment 
of  furniture  in  a  square  dioing-room*  Bottum* 
a  well-planBed  bedroom  showinK  a  acr\'ici*jible 
arrangement  of  dresidng  and  sleeping  equipment, 
with  plenty  of  free  apaee  for  passage. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


99 


In  contrast  to  the  living-room,  the  dining-room  has  but  one 
functioD  and  therefore  hut  one  center  of  interest.  The  dec- 
oration and  furnishinp;  of  thi.s  room  should  focus  on  the  idea 
of  the  table  in  use.  A  dining-tahle  capable  of  enlargement, 
a  ryg  perhaps,  chairs,  a  serviog-table,  and  a  place  to  keep  the 
dishes,  against  an  inteiestiugly  papered  or  paneled  back- 
ground, constitute  the  real  requirernents  of  the  dining-rooni. 
Anything  provided  in  addition  to  tliis  h  purely  by  way  of  decora- 
tion which  implie?^  that  the  added  features  must  enhance  the 
general  appearance.  Clean  linen — white,  cream,  or  gray — 
simple  forms  of  knives,  forks,  and  spoons,  china  with  refined 
outhne.s  and  restrained  decorations,  furnish  a  dining-room  with 
more  distinction  than  an  ahundance  of  ornate  furnishing. 

Unhke  the  living  area,  the  rooms  of  the  sleeping  area  stand 
each  one  bj^  itself,  a  complete  unit,  both  in  furnisliing  and  in 
decoration.  A  sleeping-room  slioiild  above  all  be  personal  in 
its  use,  light,  airy,  and  intimate  in  character.  Sufficient  window 
space,  light  colored  walls  and  woodwork,  fresh  looking  curtains, 
furniture  stained  or  painted  to  accord  with  these,  carry  out  this 
idea.  A  clean  comfortable  bed,  conveniences  for  dressing  and 
storage  of  clothes  provided  hy  dressing-table,  bureau,  chiffonier 
and  closet,  a  well-lighted  mirror,  a  comfortable  chair  or  two, 
a  bedside  table,  and  rugs  in  the  open  spaces  are  the  essentials. 
Facilities  for  writing  or  sewing  may  also  l>e  needed.  Whatever 
accessories^  are  introduceci  are  of  a  personal  nature. 

Bed  and  dressing  arraDgements  should  Ix^  located  with  special 
reference  to  good  lighting  both  by  day  and  by  night.  Tlie  bed 
should  be  so  placed  as  not  to  face  the  light,  while  the  mirror 
aliould  be  so  placed  that  the  person  dressing  is  in  full  light. 
Side  lights  are  a  part  icularly  appropriate  type  for  bedroom  use. 

The  character,  equipment,  and  use  of  the  kitchen  are  discussed 
ill  connection  with  its  planning  on  pages  100  to  120. 


CHAPTER   III 

PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN* 

By  Helen  Binkerd  Young 

Any  home-maker  .should  Ix?  able  to  plan  a  kitchen  intelli- 
geiitiy.  This  means  a  kitchen  that  measures  up  to  some  stand- 
ard tests  on  general  essential  points.  The  details  are  of  small 
moment  when  compared  to  such  fundamental  considerations 
as  the  size  of  the  kitchen,  the  amount  of  Hght  and  air,  and  the 
j^cneral  organization  of  the  work.  Too  miich  or  too  little  floor 
space,  too  many  doors,  too  few  windows,  and  too  httle  wall 
space  are  basic  matters  that  may  brexik  up  the  entire  conven- 
ience of  the  place,  no  matter  how  perfect  the  details  of  etiuip- 
ment  may  be.  Naturally,  it  is  too  late  to  bepn  to  plan  a  kitchen 
after  it  is  buiit,  for  the  structural  contlitions  are  then  fixed 
and  the  possibilitie^s  of  arrangement  are  aeeordinj^ly  limited. 
This  is  not  meant  to  disconrajre  the  remodeling  of  old  kitchens, 
but  merely  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  planning  the  kitchen 
correctly  at  the  start, 

USE   OF  THE    KITCHEN 

Properly  8peaking,  the  kitchen  is  a  Bcrupulously  clean  room 
intended  for  o|>erahVins  conneetc<l  with  food  niaterials,  and  for 
this  purpose  only.  It  is  not  the  province  of  the  kitchen  to  pro- 
vide space  for  eating^  for  washing  and  ironing  clothes  f32  lava- 
tory purposes,  for  removing  Ijoot-s,  wraps,  and  overalls,  or  for 
passageway  from  the  Ijack  of  tlie  house  to  the  front.  For  the 
sake  of  cleanliness  and  speed,  such  activities  should  be  provided 
for  elsewhere.  It  is  poor  logic  and  poor  economy  to  plan  for 
such  featui-es  lus  laundry  tul>s  anr I  cleariing  closets  in  the  kitchen, 
for  they  are  too  unsanitary  and  too  unrelated  to  food  work  to 

*Conjeil  Rcading-Ciiur^c  fnr  llip  Fnnn  rinrne,  Bull  108. 
100 


I 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


101 


have  a  place  there.  Moreover,  in  order  to  inclucle  the  laundry 
work,  the  kitchen  must  be  made  larger  than  it  woolil  otherwise 
need  to  be.  A  separate  room  for  laundry  purposes  should  be 
provided,  either  in  the  ba^sement  or,  as  in  the  case  of  the  farm- 
house, on  the  same  floor  as  the  kitchen  ami  adjacent  to  it. 


MOM 


Fui,  34.— A  tarjte  kitchen,  14  by  IB  fcet^  sa  rear- 
niuf^t'di  tlmt  hind  iind  Itiuiirlry  work  are  aepn* 
ratt'iy  grouped,  whil*>  the  »tA>ve  w  cummou  to 
both. 

This  room  can  rdso  be  used  for  the  storage  of  cleaning  mater- 
ials  anil  as  a  direct  entranci?  into  the  main  )}art  of  the  house, 
thereby  eliminating  constant  passage  through  the  kitchen. 
Therefore,  by  taking  out  of  the  kitchen  proper  all  operations 
foreign  to  foods,  a  smaller  and  more  convenient  room  may 
be  planned. 

Even  in  alterinjj;  an  old  house,  this  idea  of  planning  the  kitchen 
proper  for  food  work  only,  should  l)e  t  he  guiding  thought.  Thus, 
u  large  kitchen  in  which    tlie    family  wa^shing  has  been  done 


L 


102  .1    MAXrAL  or  imMK-MAKLXG 


J 


should  be  rcmocleled  in  siicli  a  way  tliat  all  food  work  is  jcrouped 
at  oru'  oixd  and  laundry  work  and  jmssage  at  thf^  other  end,  with 
tht*  stnve  as  the  common  piQce  of  equipment  between.  If  the 
room  iH  Iarj?e  enough  for  it,  a  thin  partition  wall  may  be  uswi 
to  eompletc  the  division*  This  makes  a  more  cleanly  and  more 
eeononiieal  arrangement  than  ilocs  the  single  large  rcMjni  with 
the  two  kinds  of  w^ork  erosaing  each  other.  Such  a  kitchen  al- 
tera! ion  is  shown  in  Fig.  34, 

The  same  idea  of  grouping  the  food  work  in  an  alcove  and 
using  the  Remainder  of  the  space  for  another  purpose?  can  \>e 
applic^d  to  a  combination  kitchen  and  dining-room,  such  as  is 
shown  in  Fig.  14.  Thc^  compact  kitchen  end  could  be  made  light 
and  washable  in  character,  antl  the  dining-room  end  more  like  a 
sitting-room,  with  passage  through  the  room  halfway  between, 
thus  disturbing  the  comfort  of  neither  part. 

It  is  evident  from  the  foregoing  explanation  that  the  intelligent 
planning  of  a  kitchen  involves  a  number  of  side  issues,  w^iich, 
in  the  case  of  the  farmhouse,  unite  to  make  of  it  a  vcr>^  complex 
problem.  If  the  kitchen  is  to  become  a  compact,  businesslike 
compartment  f«>r  one  use  only,  the  entire  working  aiTangenjents 
of  the  house  must  i>e  thoroughly  studied  in  order  to  make  sure 
that  there  is  a  definite  place  allotted  to  every  need  (Fig.  37). 

EXPOSURE 

The  location  of  the  kitchen  will  of  coui-se  depend  on  the  re- 
mainder of  the  house  plan  and  on  the  location  of  the  other  rooms* 
Theorelically^  the  best  exposure  and  location  for  a  kitchen  is 
tow*ard  the  north,  the  northeast,  or  the  northwest,  w^ith  at 
least  two  outer  walls  for  light  and  air.  This  implies  either  a 
corner  locat  ion  or  a  separate  wing.  South,  southeast,  and  south- 
west  are  less  desiraljlc  exposures  for  a  kitchen,  because  they  are 
likely  to  be  hot  and  glaring  and  are  usually  hfird  to  ventilate. 
Furthennore,  siouthern  exposures  are  usually  at  a  premium  for 
the  more  important  living-rooms.  If  the  arrangement  is  such 
that  the  kitchen  can  have  but  a  single  exposure,  it  can  still  be 
made  a  ver}'  comfortable 4>ne  as  rt^grirds  light*  air,  and  coolness, 
if  it  faces  north  and  is  prt»vided  with  plenty  of  windows;  whereas^ 


I 


I 

I 

I 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


a  kitchen  having  but  one  outside  wall,  and  that  facing  directly 
south,  is  in  the  very  worst  situation  from  every  viewpoint. 

SIZE 

The  size  of  the  kitchen  h  determined  chiefly  by  the  number 
of  workers  and  by  the  kind  of  fuel  to  be  u-sed  for  cooking.  In 
general  it  should  always  be  large  enough  to  accommodate 
two  workers  in  emergency,  and  yet  at  the  same  time  as  small 
as  convenience  will  allow. 

A  kitchen  in  which  coal  is  to  be  used  for  fuel  is  normally 
larger  than  one  in  which  gas  is  to  be  used,  because  of  the  larger 
size  of  the  ran^c,  the  need  for  a  convenient  supply  of  fuel,  and 
the  fact  that  for  reasons  of  comfoit  the  other  pieces  of  furniture 
cannot  be  placed  too  near  t!ie  stove.  Years  of  experience  in 
planning,  equipping,  and  using  kitchens  under  conservational 
methods,  show  that  a  gas-fuel  kitchen  with  a  pass  pantry  need 
not  exceed  150  square  feet  of  floor  space,  ant!  that  a  coal-fuel 
kitchen,  together  with  a  pass  and  food  pantry,  ordinarily  need 
not  exceed  an  area  of  200  square  feet  of  lloor  space.  This  area 
may  be  arranged  in  such  shapes  as  9  by  12  feet,  10  Ivy  12  feet, 
10  by  13  or  14  feet,  1 1  by  1 1  feet,  11  by  12  or  13  feet,  or  12  by  12 
feet,  for  the  kitchen  proper,  and  5  by  7,  S,  0,  or  10  feet,  or  6 
by  6,  7,  or  8  feet,  for  the  pantr>%  according  as  these  measure- 
ments best  fit  into  the  plan  for  the  remainder  of  the  house.  In 
general,  approximately  sf4uare  shaf>cs  for  kitc!iens  and  pantries 
am  more  convenient  than  are  long,  narrow  ones.  Eight  feet 
should  be  the  minimum  width  for  a  kitchen. 

Of  course  the  areas  given  are  merely  guides  to  help  determine 
the  probable  amount  of  space  needed  for  kitchen  developments 
and  to  serve  as  a  sort  of  check  on  w^istcful  or  crow^fled  planning. 
It  is  very  easy  to  plan  a  kitchen  that  is  too  large;  it  is  also  pos- 
sible to  plan  a  kitchen  that  is  too  small,  where  freedom  of  motion 
is  crampetl  aiitl  where  one  tires  of  standing  always  in  one  place 
or  position. 

DtJORS 

After  the  size  and  the  location  of  the  kitchen  have  been  de- 
termined, the  placing  nf  the  openings  is  the  next  step  to  be  con* 


104 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


sitlL*n*d.    Tlip  Bubje^t  of  doors  especially  should  he  ^iven 
mofcsl  delibontte  atientirni,  for  the  inconvptiioncc  of  many  kitrh 
ens  can  In*  tl■acc^d  luiek  to  the  prescnt'o  of  too  many  or  wrongly 
placed  doors. 

It  is  evident  that  a  kitchen  should  have  as  few  doors  as  pos- 
sible in  order  to  avoid  breaking  up  the  wall  space  and  to  avoid 
pasmige  through  the  kitchen  to  different  parts  of  the  house. 
Ordinarily,  five  or  six  doors  are  needed  in  connection  with  the 
kitchen  work:  an  outside  door,  a  pantry  door,  a  cellar  door,  a 
door  to  the  dining-room,  and  perhaps  one  leading  to  a  rear  stair- 
way or  halL  Fortunately,  all  these  dcM^rs  need  not  be  located 
in  the  kitchen  proper.  Different  com  In  nations  can  be  arrangeil 
whereby  one  dof^r  can  be  made  to  serve  two  or  tliree  purposes. 
Thujs,  the  cellar  or  the  rear-stair  door  might  open  from  a  pantiy 
or  fmni  an  outside  entry,  which  might  also  contain  the  outside 
door.  Two  or  three  doors  of  pa'^sage  are  all  that  are  needcfl  in 
a  wi»ll-planned  kitehen.  These  should,  as  nearly  as  possible,  be 
arrangtHl  at  one  side,  corner,  or  end,  thus  leaving  a  continuous 
wall  space  in  an  alcove  form  for  the  arrangement  of  eciuipment. 

TVINDOWS 

The  function  of  a  window  is  essentially  twofold^to  admit 

light  and  air.  Naturally  that  arrangement  of  windows  will  be 
most  reasonable  which  provides  for  the  best  diffusion  of  light 
and  the  best  ventilation  with  the  least  amount  of  ghiss  space. 
For,  while  it  is  poor  economy  to  have  too  few  windows,  it  is  also 
poor  economy  to  have  too  many. 

It  has  been  found  that  for  efTeclive  results,  a  son  ai  tlexible 
relation  exists  l>etween  tlie  amount  of  window  space  to  be  used 
and  the  size  of  the  room  to  Ix*  hghted.  Accordingly,  the  total 
window  area  for  a  kitchen  should  in  general  l>e  about  25  per 
cent  of  the  floor  area.  For  example,  a  kitchen  11  by  11  feet, 
having  121  square  fcH?t  of  floor  area*  should  be  provided  with 
about  30  square  feet  of  window  space,  arranged  on  the  two 
outer  walls.  This  space  may  be  divided  iiito  two  windows  3  by 
5  feet  each,  or  thrt*e  windows  2^/2  by  4  feet  each,  or  three 
windows  2  by  4}^  feet  each,  as  the  case  may  recjuire.    The 


the  \ 


I 


I 


PLAS'NISG  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


105 


necessary  window  space  for  any  given  kitchen  may  thus  he 
approximated. 

Ordinarily,  kitchen  windows  should  be  located  as  far  apart  as 
possible.  In  the  case  of  a  rnrner  exposure,  they  should  be  placed 
near  the  partition  walLs  rathei  than  near  the  corner  of  the  hoiLse, 
This  arrangement  insures  a  stroni^  diagonal  sweep  of  air  and 
an  even  distribution  of  light.  The  tops  of  the  windows  should 
be  not  more  than  a  foot  from  the  ceiling,  so  that  the  rising  heat  ^ 
and  odors  can  easily  escape.  Broad,  short  i;^indows,  built  high 
from  the  floor,  arc  an  excellent  type  for  kitchen  ase.  The  dis- 
tance from  the  floor  to  the  sill  should  be  from  three  to  four  feet, 
in  order  to  allow  for  table  space  l:>eneath  the  windo^-s.  While 
Dot  so  picturesque  as  casements,  double-hung  windows  are 
usually  the  easier  tv-pe  to  operate  in  a  kitchen* 

ARRAJJGEMENT  OF  EQUIPMENT 

Having  planned  the  kitchen  that  is  structurally  suited  to  its 
use,  further  convenience  depends  on  the  selection  and  arrange- 
ment of  the  furniture,  or  equipment.  In  this,  as  in  the  case  of 
any  industry^  the  aim  should  be  to  do  the  most  work  in  the 
leAst  time  without  friction  and  with  the  fewest  workers. 

The  equipment  should  line  the  walls,  leaving  a  free  central 
space  for  working.  Theoretically,  every  change  in  working 
levels  whether  of  floor  or  table,  and  ever>'  gap  between  two 
pieces  of  equipment,  cause  loss  of  efliiciency;  that  is  to  say,  the 
more  continuous  the  armngement  of  eciuipnierit,  the  more  con- 
venient will  be  the  work.  Having  dispensed  with  all  imneees- 
sar>"  doors  and  deliberately  preserved  one  or  two  continuous 
wall  spaces,  the  disposition  of  the  equipment  becomes  an  easy 
matter.  Indeed,  it  would  }>e  difficult  to  make  a  really  incon- 
venient work-place  of  a  compact,  well-lighted  kitchen  of  limited 
sise,  having  few  doors  and  generous  wall  spaces,  such  as  has 
beeo  previously  described.  But  in  order  to  reach  a  standard 
of  maadmum  convenience,  the  work  and  the  equipment  should 
be  organized  so  that  all  things  pertaining  to  a  given  operation 
are  grouped  together. 

The  table,  thi*  stove,  and  the  sink  represent  the  tluee  < 


106 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-AfAK!NG 


tial  operations  carried  on  iti  a  kitchen:  the  preparation  of  the 
food,  the  cooking  of  the  food,  and  liie  cleaning-ap  process  that 
follows.  This  equipment  and  this  work  form  the  nucleus  of 
three  oi>eration  centers:  (1)  the  food  center,  (2)  the  heat  center, 
and  (3)  the  water  center.  This  orji^anization  is  the  basis  of 
convenient  arrangement  for  every  home  kitchen,  large  or  small, 
whether  it  belongs  to  apartment,  suburban  home,  or  farmhouse. 


1. 


The  food  ncntcr  reqiiirea  the  fallowing?  equipment: 

a.  Table  space,  from  8  to  12  square  feet  excluaivc  of  aink-fxjarda 

b.  Storage  space 


(l)  For  coltl  foods, 


(2) 


Diiinli-waiter 

Frwid  ptmtry 

(Any  or  all  of  these) 


Drawers  and  shelves 

(la  form  of  closet  or  cahtnef 


b,  Stoni^c  s[)iirc\ 


For  dry  suppUea  imd 
utenaib  needed  in  foud 
preparation 

2.  The  heat  rrntrr  rer|uires  the  fallowing  equipment : 

a.  tjtove  or  rungr,  frnm  2  by  3  feet  to  2H  hy  5  feet 

Fnel  liox  or  tiin,  if  vmd  or  woc»d  is  to  be  userl 
Pan  vUm^t  for  utensils 
Water  l)oiler 

The  water  center  requires  the  foilowinK  equipment: 

a.  Sink,  2  by  3  fci^t,  njore  nr  li'ss 

b.  Drain-lxiani,  H  square  fei^t  or  more— part  to  right  and  part 
to  left  of  sink 

I  Shelves  and  drawers 
(In  form  of  china  closet  and   pan 
eloaet) 


The  food  center  should^  if  possible,  be  located  on  an  outer 
wall,  with  the  sink  and  range  centers  on  inside  walls  and  with 
Yighi  comin^^  from  the  side.  OrdinarilVt  tfie  position  of  the 
dinini^-rooni  and  the  fooation  of  the  main  chimneys  of  the  house 
determine  tlie  general  location  of  the  sink  and  the  range,  re- 
spectively. The  sink  shotild  be  near  or  next  the  tlining-room 
walh  so  that  meal  service  involves  a  short  path  of  travel  imd 
but  one  handling  of  dishes. 


PLANKING   THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


w 


If  possible,  the  food  and  water  centers  should  l>e  combined 
into  one  arran^ienient,  so  that  all  the  table  space,  such  as  the 
table  top,  the  cabinet  shelf,  and  the  drain-board ,  forms  a  con- 
tinuous work  shelf  on  the  same  level. 

Ordinarily  the  stove  or  the  range  is  the  one  piece  of  equip- 
ment that  should  i)e  set  somewFiat  apart.  It  may  even  be 
conveniently  i>laced  in  a  detached  fiosition  on  a  st*parate  wall 
space,  partly  because  the  other  work  is  more  comfortable  if 
the  stove  is  not  too  near,  and  partly  because  the  design  of 
stoves  is  such  that  two  or  three  sides  must  l>e  accessible  to  the 
worker 

The  question  is  often  «asked  whether  movalile  or  built-in 
equipment  is  preferalile.  While  the  use  of  either  sort  can  be 
made  entirely  convenient  in  arrangement,  there  is  much  to 
be  said  in  favor  of  built-in  equipment  as  far  as  cleanliness  and 
appearance  are  concerned.  In  the  latter  case,  there  are  no 
cracks  behind  or  under  the  furniture,  and,  consequently,  the 
moving  of  heavy  articles  is  unnecessary  in  cleaning.  A  table, 
a  stove,  and  a  cabinet,  all  separate  and  standing  on  legs  or 
casters,  make  the  problem  of  a  clean  floor  more  difficult  than 
if  the  cabinet  and  the  range  were  set  directly  on  the  floor  and 
the  table  space  was  supplied  by  drain-boards  or  a  shelf.  Also, 
the  appearance  is  simpler  and  more  restful  with  the  built-in 
pieces.  However,  a  satisfactory  kitchen  can  be  made  by  the  use 
of  separate  pieces. 

T(AIe  space. 

Extensive  tal>le  space  may  be  gained  by  providing  generous 
drain-boards  to  right  and  left  of  the  sink,  continuous  with  the 
cabinet  shelf.  A  movable  table  of  the  siime  height,  mounted  on 
casters  or,  preferal>ly,  on  small  wheels,  wilt  prove  a  great  step- 
saver  and  will  simplify  the  serving  of  meals.  A  double-deck 
wheel  tray  would  serve  this  purpose  even  better  since  it  is 
lighter  to  push  about.  All  floors  on  a  level  and  all  table  tops 
on  a  level  save  many  an  accident  in  the  kitchen.  A  work  table 
covered  with  zinc  will  give  satisfaction  for  it  is  nonabsorbent 
and  is  easilv  cleaned. 


108 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Range. 

The  newer  pattern?;  of  reliable  ranges  are  simpler  and  le 
ornate  than  those  of  tlie  older  stoves  and  require  le^s  care* 

If  a  new  kitchen  is  to  be  built,  a  separate  ventilating  tlue  may 
be  provided  in  addition  to  the  smoke  floe.  Tbis  ventiiatinR 
flue,  provided  with  a  register  inlet  about  four  feet  above  the 
stove  t^p,  will  relieve  the  kitchen  of  odors  and  of  excessive 
heat,  especially  if  a  projecting  metal  hood  Is  fastened  over  the 
range  for  collecting  the  risijig  air 

The  stove  or  ranjr;e  requires  more  care  and  makes  more  dirt 
than  any  other  feature  in  live  kitcJien.  Fuel  must  Ik*  brought  in 
and  ashes  must  be  removed.  Whatever  can  be  done  to  simplify 
the  incoming  and  the  outgoing  of  fuel  will  make  for  cleanliness 
and  for  economy  of  lal»or,  A  generous  temporary  supply  may 
be  stored  either  in  a  separate  fuel  compartment  next  to  the 
kitchen,  or  in  a  fuel  box  fitted  with  a  double-hinged  cover  and 
built  into  the  wall  in  such  a  way  that  it  may  be  filled  from 
without  and  emptied  from  within.  The  actual  arrangement  in 
any  case  will  liefiend  on  whether  wooil  or  coal  is  burned  and 
wliether  the  main  supply  may  lie  stored  in  or  near  the  house. 

A.shes  may  be  emptied  directly  into  an  air-tight  metal  can  in 
the  cellar.  This  is  an  easier  and  cleaner  method  than  removing 
them  Vjy  hantL  A  can  of  a  size  that  one  man  can  handle  easily 
will  probably  not  ne<*d  to  l>e  emptied  oftener  than  once  a  week. 
Many  of  the  newer  ranges  are  already  equipped  for  this  method 
of  aslwlisposal,  l>yt  any  stove  may  be  so  arranged  if  tliere  is  a 
caieful  workman  at  hand*  The  a.sli  pan  should  first  be  removed 
from  the  stove  and  a  rotmd  hole  cut  through  the  bottom  of  the 
ash  compartment  and  through  the  floor  lx*low;  a  stovepipe  is 
then  pa«*sed  through  these  holes  and  is  flanged  over  the  bottom 
of  the  ash  pit  of  the  stove.  Two  precautions  must  Ije  observed 
in  this  piece  of  work:  firsts  the  stovepipe  which  is  to  lead  the 
ashes  into  the  cellar  can  must  tie  provided  with  a  damper 
near  the  stove,  in  order  to  prevent  an  upward  draught  of  air 
from  burning  out  the  fire;  second,  a  free  air  space  of  at  least  two 
inches  mui^t  l>e  allowed  all  around  the  pipe  where  it  passes 
tlu*uugb  the  floor,  consequently  the  floor  hole  must  be  cut  at 


I 


I 
I 

I 
I 


PLANMNG  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


109 


least  four  inches  larger  than  the  pipe.  This  open  space  may  be 
filled  with  concrete  or  covered  with  an  ordinary  metal  collar. 
Measures  should  also  be  taken  to  make  the  ash  can  perfectly 
safe.  A  container  of  hot  a^hes  in  a  place  not  frequently  visitedj 
such  a.s  the  cellar^  may  prove  a  source  of  fianger  unless  it  is 
surrotmded  by  a  wire  cage  or  in  soTue  way  protected  so  that  rub- 
bishy paper,  kindling,  or  other  combustible  material  can  never 
be  thrown  directly  against  it. 


Sink  and  drain-boards, 

A  one-piece  enameled  iron  sink,  with  high  back,  will  prove 
a  satisfactory  appliance.  This  sink  should  be  large  enough 
to  hold  a  dishpan  conveniently.  Dishwashing  will  be  more 
'quickly  accomphshed  with  the  double  drain-lx>ard  before 
mentioned  than  if  a  single  drain-board  is  used.  Enameled 
iron  drain-l>oards  arc  not  advisable.  They  are  more  showy 
thap  serviceable^  for;  l}esides  being  noisy,  they  are  too  small 
to  be  useful  and  too  hard  to  be  safe  for  dishes.  Suitable 
drain-boards  may  be  made  of  ash  or  of  maple,  or  they  may 
be  made  of  some  other  wood  and  covered  w^ith  zinc.  For 
the  purpose  of  shedding  w^ater,  w^ooden  drain-l)oards  should  be 
grooved  and  zinc-covered  boards  should  tje  provided  with  a 
curbed  or  raised  edge.  Furthermore,  a  drain-board  should 
slope  slightly  toward  the  sink,  on  I  lie  rini  of  wliich  it  rests. 
The  resulting  board  level  is  about  1  inch  above  the  sink  level. 

The  construction  of  sink-boards  requires  the  most  careful 
workmanship.  The  use  of  wood  for  draining  purposes  subjects 
it  to  the  severe  test  of  being  continually  wet  on  one  side  only. 
In  order  to  avoid  warping  and  splitting,  therefore,  a  sink-board 
should  \ye  thick,  heavy,  and  wx^U  cleated  on  the  underside.  A 
surface  finish  that  will  render  the  l>oards  water-resisting  should 
be  applied  before  they  are  put  into  use.  Usually  sink-boards 
are  varnished,  but  this  finish  water-marks,  weai^  off,  and  on  the 
whole  is  less  serviceable  than  a  surface  finished  with  wood  filler, 
followed  with  hnsc^ed  oil. 

The  sink  should  be  supported  from  the  wall,  rather  than  on 

5^  and  should  be  piped,  if  possible,  through  a  partition  wail 


L 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


rather  than  through  the  floor.  A  sink  should  be  set  at  a  height 
conv^cnierit  for  the  worker — 'M  inches  from  the  floor  is  a  good 
averaice  height,  The  usual  height  of  30  inches  to  the  top  of  the 
rim  is  too  low  for  most  persons. 


d 


I 


DISCUSSION  OF  PliANS  (figs.  35-38) 
The  plan  of  a  farmhouse  kitchen  that  has  been  developed  in 
accordance  with  the  principles  of  kitchen  planning  previously 
described  is  shown  in  Fig.  35.  It  will  be  found  to  work  out  satis- 
factorily on  each  of  the  essential  matters  of  use,  location,  size, 
nunil>er  and  location  of  doors,  number  and  location  of  windows, 
and  organization  of  work.  In  this  kitchen,  coal  or  wood  is 
used  for  fuel,  and  the  cfiuipnient  is  moval>le. 

In  Fig.  36  is  sliown  the  arrangement  of  a  kitchen  in  a  suburban 
house.  In  this  case,  gas  is  used  for  fuel,  and  the  equijiment 
is  built  in.  This  arrangement  also  will  be  found  to  stand  the 
tost  on  the  points  essential  to  good  planning. 

Tile  working  area  of  a  farmhouse  is  represented  in  Fig.  37 »  in 
which  the  principles  of  kitchen  planning  are  clearly  expressed. 
The  relation  of  the  kitchen  to  the  dining-rooni»  llie  porch, 
the  pantry,  and  the  washroom,  should  first  lie  noted,  after  which 
size,  location,  openings,  and  general  equipment  may  he  studied.  ■ 
This  kitchen  has  a  corner  location  on  the  plan,  with  the  food 
pantr}""  and  one  wall  exposed  in  a  northerly  direction.  The 
kitchen  proper  represents  an  area  of  130  scjoare  feet  and  the 
pantry  an  area  of  45  square  feet.  The  number  of  doors  has  been 
reduced  to  two,  which  are  placed  adjacent  so  that  travel  from 
the  porch  occurs  around  a  corner  and  not  across  the  working 
center.  The  most  fhrect  passage  from  the  barns  he.s  through 
the  washroom,  as  should  be  the  case.  The  windows  of  the  kit- 
chen, which  are  placed  high,  light  the  working  area  sufficiently 
and  provide  good  ventilation.  Moreover,  if  it  is  nec^ded,  a  com- 
plete sweep  of  air  may  be  ol>tained  from  end  to  end  by  opening 
the  two  pantry  doors,  over  either  of  which  a  transom  may  be 
built.  Both  these  doors  are  glazed,  in  order  to  afford  light  and 
view*  A  fuel  compartment  is  conveniently  located  for  either 
kitchen  or  washroom.     An  eating  porch,  looking  toward  the 


I 


I 


d 


PLANNING   THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


111 


garden  and  the  sunset,  occupies  the  corner  angle  between  the 
kitchen  and  the  clininjtc-room.  The  kitchen  and  the  porch  con- 
nect with  a  Dutch  door,  so  that  outdoor  meals  are  easily  served. 
Extra  food  and  extra  fuel  are  stored  in  the  cellar,  whence  they 
are  delivered  by  a  dumb-waiter,  or  lift. 


lAVMDU 


V*' rl 


Fig.  35* — A   farmhouse  kitt-lu-n   thitt  demoDstmtea 
tho  priDciplcs  of  Bound  pLuniiiiig. 


The  purpose  of  a  washroom  is  to  save  the  other  parts  of  the 
house.  Here  all  dirty  and  occasional  forms  of  work  may  be  done. 
The  room  is  equipped  for  tlie  family  washing  and  ironing,  and 
stores  such  general  cleaning  apparatus  as  brooms,  pails^  and 
vacuum  cleaner.  Here,  also,  men  coming  from  the  barn  may 
remove  muddy  boots  and  overalls,  and  may  clean  up  before 
going  to  the  table.  Such  feeding  pails  for  stock  as  are  brought 
to  the  house  should  be  deposited  here,  not  taken  into  the  kitchen* 


MANUAL  OF  m)Mi:-MAK!NG 


Considering  the  nature  of  this  room  and  its  many  uses,  it  shouldi 
be  made  as  lar^e  as  can  be  alTorded,  and  should  be  provided,] 
if  possible,  with  a  cement  rtoor  and  a  painted  waJl  so  that  splash- 
ing will  not  injure  it.    The  room  shown  in  Fig.  37  is  in  reality] 


Fig.  30. — A  kitchen  fc>r  u  guhurbfin  houa*'.  dcvoloped  in  arcord- 
ance  with  thcs  principles  of  good  arrange ttietit. 

the  old  washliousc  and  woodshed,  fitted  more  completely  than 
formerly^  and  is  an  important  part  of  the  plan. 

PANTRIES    AND    CLOSETS 

No  part  of  the  kitchen  equipment  ha-s  been  so  evaded  in 
planning  as  has  accurate  and  systematic  storage  space.  The 
habil  has  lx}en  acqiiired  of  using  evTr>^  corner  and  tuck-away 
place  for  n  closet,  the  idea  being  that  tlie  more  clos<^ts,  the  greater 
would  be  the  convenience.  Too  much  or  inaccessible  storage 
space  invites  slack  housekeeping  and  is,  therefore,  more  de- 
structive to  the  general  scheme  than  is  too  little  closet  room. 


'LATE  XI. — (Above)  Shelves  of  ftuitable  siie  for  the  materials  to  be  stor^. 
(Below)  t'tensiliii  in  which  foods  may  be  both  cooked  and  aerved — 
eaneroles  aud  meat  plank. 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


113 


Limited  storage  space  compels  one  to  organize,  to  eliminate, 
and  to  arrange  connpacfly,  the  genera!  result  thereby  favoring 
conservation.     Only  such  storage  space  should  be  planned  as 


7d«^i 


^^i^BC 


PORCH 


to  '  to" 


rirEi- 


UtegJ 


KITCHEW 


^^^4  4m* 


-  To  barns-- 


-^tb^afdfti  Vf 


rLJ2L 


U    U 

IS  M3' 


LIVIMC    ROOn 


2>Z 


\/AbH  ROOM 


^fUBml 


Fio.  37. — PUin  in  whieli  principles  of  kitchen  arrangcraf  nt  nrc  clearly  cxpr 


is  really  needetl  to  complete  and  a^^sist  the  operation  of  the 
kitehen. 

There  are  three  general  types  of  storage  space  that  may  be 
used  in  connection  with  the  kitchen  arrangements:  (1)  the 
pantry,  (2)  tlie  cupboard  filled  with  shefves,  and  (Z)  the  cabinet, 
or  dresser.  t)f  these  tiiree,  the  pantry  is  l>y  nature  the  most 
capacious,  the  cuplxDard  next,  and  the  cabinet  least.  An  analy* 
sis  of  these  three  forms  should  enable  one  to  plan  intelligently 
the  storage  space  for  an  individual  kitchen. 

The  pantry  may  be  defined  uis  an  enlarged  closet  through 


114 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


which  one  passes  or  into  which  one  steps  instead  of  merely 
reaching.  Its  pyi'j>ose  is  primarily  to  furnish  more  generous 
storage  space  than  is  provided  by  the  ordinary  cupboard »  There 
are  in  general  two  types  of  pantries,  the  food  pantry  and  the 
pass  pantry.  The  food  pantry  is  intendeil  priinaiily  for  the 
storage  of  food  supplies  that  must  be  kept  cooler  than  the  tem- 


•i 


won 


\ 

Fio.  38. — A  complete  and  convenient  kitchen  for  any  hottie. 


perature  of  the  kitchen.  The  pass  or  botler^s  pantry  is  used  for 
the  storing  of  china  and  for  the  serving  of  meals.  Often  these 
two  pantries  can  be  combined  into  one  without  breaking  up  the 
organization  of  the  work. 

Whether  a  food  pantry,  or  a  pass  pantry,  or  both^  or  a  com- 
bination of  the  two  shall  be  planned  for  any  given  house,  de- 
pends on  the  conditions  of  that  special  case,    In  general,  a  food 


d 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


115 


servinR-pantry,    shown    nti 
plan  in  Fig.  38, 


pantry  is  always  needed  when  coal  is  used  for  cooking,  because 
the  temfK^rature  of  the  kitchen  then  becomes  so  wami  that 
certain  foods  will  not  keep;  whereas,  when  gas  is  used,  the 
temperature  is  likely  to  be  fairly 
cool  and  e%^en,  which  often  allows 
for  the  food  pantry  to  be  replaced 
by  an  ice-box,  a  dumb-waiter^  or 
both,  placed  directly  in  the  kitchen. 
If  the  ventilation  of  the  room  is 
good,  such  an  arrangement  will  re- 
quire very  little  niore  ice  a  year 
than  the  amount  needed  if  the  re- 
frigerator were  placed  in  a  separate 

entr>'   or   panti^^   or   on   an   outer  Fta,  39,— The  pns^  mntry  or 
porch. 

If  the  family  is  large,  however, 
or  the  house  located  at  a  distance  from  the  markets,  a  food 
pantry  is  ahnost  necessary  to  store  sufficient  supplies.  Often 
one  tier  of  shelves  in  the  food  pantrj^  is  reserved  for  utensils, 
which  makes  a  separate  cupboard  mmecessary.  Owing  to  the 
nature  of  its  use,  the  food  pantry  should  preferably  be  located 
on  a  northerly  outside  w^all  and  should  be  provided  with  a 
window. 

The  pass  pantry  (Fig.  39)  is  for  several  reasons  an  almost 
invaluable  adjunct  to  the  kitchen*  Not  only  does  it  provide 
closet  space  for  eliina  and  aid  the  smooth  serving  of  meals,  but 
it  also  shuts  ofT  the  noise  and  the  odors  of  the  kitchen  from  the 
remainder  of  the  house.  Owing  to  the  nature  of  its  use,  the 
pass  pantry  should  be  located  on  the  partition  wall  betw^een 
the  dining-room  and  the  kitchen.  It  is  of  course  desirable, 
but  not  really  necessarj',  to  arrange  the  pass  pantr>^  so  that  it 
touches  the  outer  w^all  and  is  provided  with  a  window.  WTiere 
this  is  impossible,  an  inside  sening-pantrv^  painted  wiiite  and 
lighttxl  through  a  glass  panel  in  the  doc>r  leading  to  the 
kitchen,  will  be  found  to  he  light  and  satisfactory  (Figs.  35 
and  36). 

Sometimes  in  place  of,  or  in  addition  to,  the  pass  pantry,  a 


116 


.4    MANUsiL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


china  closet  opening  both  ways  is  built  into  the  wall  between 

the  dining-room  and  the  kitchen  (Fig,  37).  Although  con- 
venient, this  destroj's  the  quieting  effect  of  the  pass  paritr>% 
as  it  provitles  direct  communication  between  the  dining-room 
and  the  kitchen,  and  danger  of  noise  and  odors.  A  simple  and 
dirc^ct  arrangement  for  meal  service  is  shown  in  Figs.  35  and  36, 
where  the  pass  pantry  is  used  and  there  is  a  sHde  through  to 
the  sink  drain-board.  In  neither  case  are  the  dishes  carried 
across  the  kitchen;  they  are  deliveretl,  washed,  antl  returned 
within  the  shortest  possible  line  of  service* 

Glass  china  closets  and  plate  rails  should  be  used  sparingly 
in  the  design  of  the  dining-room.  The  cupboard — a  closet 
filled  with  shelves — is  a  valuatile  place  of  storage  for  pans, 
china,  or  supplies.  If  intelligently  slielved,  it  can  be  made 
almost  as  capacious  as  a  small  pantry. 

The  arrangement  of  shelving  is  perhaps  the  most  iinj^ortant 
feature  in  the  phuming  of  storage  space.  For  the  best  results, 
shelves  should  be  dt^slgned  only  wide  enough  to  hold  com- 
fortably one  row  of  supplies,  of  whatever  kind  considered. 
An  arrangement  of  narrow  shelves  spaced  close  together  wnll 
prove  to  be  more  capacious,  accessible,  and  easy  to  clean  than 
wide  shelves  spaced  far  apart.  From  every  standpoint,  deep 
shelves  are  a  great  mistake,  t^ecause  one  must  then  arrange 
for  two  or  three  rows  of  materials  in  ortler  to  use  the  space. 
It  will  be  found  that  the  area  of  comfortatile  reach  is  between 
one  and  six  feet  from  tlie  floor^  leaving  alMnit  five  feet  of  quickly 
available  space.  For  the  sake  of  efficiency,  this  space  should 
l>e  as  compactly  shelved  as  is  ft^asiblc  for  the  use  intended.  A 
cupboard  provided  witli  one  or  two  broad  slielves  below  and  a 
series  of  narrower  shelves  above,  will  hold  a  large  number  of 
articles,  both  effectively  and  accessilily  dispIayetL  A  cupl>oard 
with  doors  for  pans,  china,  or  supplies  is  ample  if  mafle  from 
10  to  15  inches  deep;  a  serit\s  of  open  shelves,  if  made  from  8 
to  10  inches  deep.  Shelves  as  narrow  as  6  inches  are  ginwl  for 
single  rows  of  dry  supplies.  From  7  to  10  inches  bet  w(H?n  shelves 
is  a  safe  average  distnnce  for  spacing;  but  in  urder  to  make 
the  most  out  of  a  given  space,  it  is  l>est  to  think  out 


I 
I 


'r  to  make     M 
it  carefully     ■ 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


the  materials  that  are  to  be  store<l,  and  to  space  the  shelves 
accordingly. 

The  kitchen  cabinet,  or  dresser,  l)rings  a  new  element  into 
the  storage  arrangement.  It  introduces  a  work  shelf  at  table 
height,  thereby  dividing  the  storage  into  an  upper  and  a  lower 
part.  The  deep  under  part  may  be  arrangt^:!  for  either  closet 
or  drawer  space;  the  upper  part  may  be  arranged  as  a  shallow 
cupboard  for  supplies.  The  most  valuabk^  fomi  of  storage  for 
the  lower  section  of  a  caliinet  is  an  arrangement  of  drawers, 
for  these  pull  out  and  expose  their  contents  from  the  top  so 
that  one  need  not  stoop  to  reach  them.  From  foiu*  to  six  well- 
planned  drawers  will  be  adequate  for  the  ordinary  kitchen:  a 
broad,  shallow  drawer  subdivided  for  small  utensils^  such  as 
knives,  forks,  spoons,  egg-beaters,  and  the  like;  a  dec^per 
drawer  for  kitchen  linen,  such  as  towels,  clean  cloths  and 
aprons;  and  two  or  thi^ee  deep,  naiTow  drawers,  or  l>ins, 
for  storing  flour,  sugars,  and  other  dry  supplies  of  a  bulky 
nature. 

Appropriate  drawer  space  for  the  pass  pantiy  is  about  as 
follows:  a  Ivroatl,  shallow  drawer  with  subdivisions  for  the 
different  kinds  of  taljle  silver;  one,  two,  or  three  broad,  shallow 
drawei-s  for  table  linen;  and  a  deep  drawer  for  miscellaneous 
neenb,  containing  perhaps  a  compartment  for  string,  one  for 
wrapping  paper,  and  so  on. 

It  should  tie  realized  from  the  foregoing  discussion  that  the 
cabinet,  or  dresser »  is  an  appropriate  form  of  storage  only  when 
table  space  is  needed  also;  that  is,  the  emphasis  is  here  placed 
on  the  work  shelf  rather  than  on  the  storage  capacity.  To  equip 
a  pantiy,  whose  function  is  to  furnish  maxinmm  storage  space, 
with  closets  of  the  dresser  type  is  therefore  a  mistake,  since 
it  furnishes  an  excess  of  table  space  at  the  expense  of  cupboard 
roorji.  An  ordinary  cupboard  or  a  series  of  open  shelves,  sup- 
plemented f>y  a  small  table  or  work  shelf  with  drawers  below; 
is  a  much  more  appropriate  arrangement  than  to  break  up  the 
most  valuable  part  of  the  storage  space  by  the  intrusion  of  a 
work  shelf.  The  cabinet  form  is  chiefly  valuable  in  the  kitchen 
proper. 


I 
I 


1 

I 


I 


d 


118 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  subject  of  kitchen  storage  should  not  be  dismissed  with- 
out emphasizing  the  usefuhiess  of  the  dumlMvaiter  This  is 
an  almost  inrlispensal>le  convenience  when  a  portion  of  the 
cellar  is  usetl  for  ffxjfl  supplies.  The  dumb-waiter  will  carry 
wood,  eoal,  and  fot^l  lietween  Hoors,  and  is  a  i^reat  labor-saver. 
With  such  an  arranjiement,  a  cold  part  of  the  cellar  may  be 
substituted  for  the  food  puniry,  even  taking  the  place  of  an 
ice-t>ox  satisfactorily.  One  trip  a  day  to  the  cellar  is  enough 
to  kec*p  the  lift  supplied. 

INTERIOR   FINISH 

Any  kitchen  that  is  to  give  full  satisfaclion  must  be  sound 
in  arrangement,  sightly  in  appearance,  and  smooth  in  opera- 
tion. Within  reasonable  limits^  anything  that  can  be  devised 
to  enforce  this  triple  standard,  must  hv  considerefi  worthy  of 
triaL  The  demands  of  convenience  will  of  course  always  come 
first*  theretty  deciding  matters  of  arrangement  and  of  manage- 
uient;  Ijut  the  less  insistent  needs  for  a  work  place  that  shall 
be  a  fit  and  lovel}^  sp<»t,  must  also  be  met.  A  eleai»,  level  floor, 
walls  and  furniture  wiih  smooth  washable  svu'faces,  and  a  pleas- 
ing color  scheme  arc  elcuients  that  eliminate  lueiital  friction 
and  that  add  the  toucli  of  refinement  which  makes  of  any  work 
a  joy. 

Up  to  the  present  time,  no  ixTfeet  flooring  that  is  cheap 
enough  for  use  in  private  homes  has  lieen  evolved.  The  ma- 
terials most  available  are  wood  and  linoleum.  Uf  the  two, 
linoleum  is  thought  to  be  preferable,  because  it  can  be  cementetl 
tight  to  the  unrier  floor,  it  is  practically  crackless,  anrl  it  is 
quiet  and  easy  to  walk  on.  Plain  brown  *' battleship''  linoleum 
is  a  reliable,  standard  product,  or  a  modest  inlaid  pattern  may 
be  used  instead.  Inexperienced  houseket^pers  claim  that  linoleum 
with  a  pattern  is  both  more  attractive  and  easier  to  keep  clean 
than  is  the  plain  color.  Although  good  linoleum  is  not  a  cheap 
floor  covering,  its  satisfactory  and  lasting  nature  commends 
it  in  spite  of  its  cost. 

A  maple  or  a  beech  floor  of  narrow  boards  is  the  next  best 
material.    Yellow  pine  and  oak  are  too  open  graineil  to  make  a 


I 


d 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


satisfactory  floor  for  kitchen  use.  Maple  and  beei'h  are  both 
light  in  color  and  do  not  make  a  very  attractive  floor  under 
hard  use,  but  they  can  be  scrulibed  and  kept  clean.  A  maple 
floor  should  l>e  finished  l>y  saturating  it  with  hot  linseed  oi! 
for  a  number  of  hours;  then  all  the  extra  oil  should  be  thoroughly 
wiped  up.  In  this  w^ay,  the  wood  is  practically  impregnated 
against  the  al^sorptioii  of  grease- 
Kitchen  w^ootlwork  shotdd  be  plain,  with  as  few  grooves  and 
moldings  as  possible.  Wooden  wainscotings  in  kitchen  and 
bathroom  should  never  be  used* 

For  the  int^?rior  finisli  of  the  kitchen,  nothing  is  comparable 
to  clean,  hght-colored  paint  for  walls  and  woodwork.  Warm 
grays,  buffs,  and  other  soft,  neutral  tints  may  be  used.  Some- 
times walls,  woodwork,  and  furniture  are  all  painted  the  sauie 
color,  thereby  imitiog  the  whole  effect.  Even  ready-made 
cabinets,  tables,  and  refrigerator's  are  far  more  attractive  if 
painted  a  light  color. 

A  kitchen  finished  in  stained  oak  or  varnished  pine,  like  the 
remainder  of  the  liouse,  is  unnecessarily  monotonous.  It 
should  be  differentiatLnl  from  the  other  rooms  in  color  scheme 
and  general  atnuospliere.  Liglii  colors,  mixed  on  a  basis  of 
white,  are  not  only  cheering  and  restful  to  look  at,  but  have 
the  further  advantage  of  reflecting  and  distributing  the  light 
so  that  there  are  no  dark  corncLs. 

Such  a  room  becomes  also  an  easy  and  economical  one  to 
light  well  at  night.  When  gas  or  oil  lamps  are  used,  light 
colors  are  positively  invaluable  in  the  kitchen.  Each  w^all 
then  becomes  in  reality  a  huge  reflecting  surface,  so  that  a  given 
amount  of  light  is  virtually  used  several  times  over.  If  an  elec- 
tric fixture  for  indirect  lighting^ — an  inverte<l  metal  bowl — is 
placed  centrally  on  a  white  ceiling,  the  entire  kitchen  is  evenly 
lighted  so  that  there  are  neither  heavy  shadows  nor  dark  cor- 
ners to  imptKle  the  work.  Naturally,  the  lighter  the  general 
color  scheme,  the  less  the  current  that  will  be  nt^ded.  Light 
colors  may,  therefore,  be  considered  as  having  a  practical,  as 
well  as  an  aesthetic,  value. 


I 
I 

I 


120 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


References 
Child,  Georgie  Boynton.    The  Efficient  Kitchen.    1914. 
Frederick,  Christine.    The  New  Housekeeping.    1913. 
Goodnow,  Ruby  Ross,  and  Adams,  Rayne.    The  Honest  House.    1914. 
White,  Charles  E.,  Jr.   Successful  Houses  and  How  to  Build  Them.    1912. 


PART  II 
HOUSEHOLD  MANAGEMENT 


CHAPTER  IV 

GAME  OF  THE  HOUSE 
By  Helen  Knowlton 

For  convenience  m  well  as  efficient  work  in  housekeeping, 
a  schedule  of  regular  daily,  weekly^  monthly,  and  yearly  proc- 
esses should  be  made  out.  Time  eau  then  be  well  planned,  and 
a  routioc  estal>lished  that  simpUfies  the  machinery  of  houi?e- 
keeping. 

CELLAR 

To  keep  the  cellar  in  a  sanitary  condition,  as  much  sunlight 
as  possible  should  be  admitted.  The  windows  should  l>e  made 
as  large  as  possifjle  and  be  on  opjKJsiie  sides  to  insure  eross- 
ventilation.  If  the  house  is  banked  for  the  winter,  dry  clean 
material  should  be  used  and  the  windows  sliould  not  l>e  covered. 
If  the  ct^llar  floor  is  of  concrete  and  is  proof  against  dampness, 
it  can  be  washed.  The  cellar  walls  should  be  whitewashed  once 
or  twice  a  year.  Whitewash  is  a  disinfectant.  If  the  cellar 
walla  admit  moisture,  it  is  recommended  to  wash  them  with  a 
dilute  solution  of  hydrochloric  acid  (I  part  acid  and  5  parts 
water),  and  then  apply  a  plaster  of  oil-mixed  mortar. 

A  cellar  containing  a  heatin|2j  plant  should  be  di%^ided  into 
compartments.  By  constructing;  one  of  these  compartments 
with  an  insulating  wall  of  hollow  tile,  a  cool  room  for  vegetables 
may  l>e  secured.  It  is  sometimes  l>est  to  construct  an  outside 
cellar  for  such  storage  (page  584). 

121 


1 


122  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

KITCHEN 

Sink. 

A  sink  without  mnniiig  waier  is  unjustifiable  for  the  busy 
housewife.  A  drain  coonection  with  a  trap  and  a  sanitary  dis- 
persal outside  for  wastes*  should  lie  provided.  Tlie  l>est  kind  of 
sink  and  the  proper  height  for  placing  it  are  discussed  on  page 
108. 

After  each  dishwashing,  the  sink  should  be  washed  with  hot 
soapy  water,  and  the  sink-trap  tioshed  with  a  generous  supply 
of  hot  water.  This  trap  must  l>o  cleaned  occasionally  wit  li  kero- 
sene.  At  least  one  gallon  of  hot  \vater  should  l)e  poured  down 
and  while  the  pipe  is  still  warm,  one-half  cup  of  kerosene  poured 
in.  This  should  stand  for  at  least  five  minutes  and  then  tfie 
trap  may  be  flushed  with  a  second  gallon  of  hot  water.  A  solu- 
tion of  washing-soda  should  not  be  used  since  it  tends  to  form 
a  hard  soap  with  the  grease  and  to  stop  up  the  pipe.  Kerosene 
forms  no  soap,  but  simply  an  emulsion. 

The  sink  should  l)e  kept  so  far  as  possible  for  purposes  con 
nected  only  with  the  preparation  of  food  and  the  cleaning  of 
dishes. 

Walls  and  woodwork. 

Painted  walls  and  woodwork  are  most  easily  cleaneil.  They 
may  be  wiped  with  a  broom  covered  with  a  soft  cloth  for  fre- 
quent cleaning.  A  long-handled  brush  is  better  than  a  broom. 
Occasionally  they  ma^^  be  scrubljed  with  a  soft  brush,  warm 
water  and  lx)rax,  and  rinsed  before  being  dried. 

Floors, 

Floor  finishes  best  adapted  for  the  kitchen  are  discussed  on 
page  117.  A  mop-wringer  is  a  great  convenience  in  the  work  of 
mopping  the  kitchen  floor. 

Dishwaj^hing. 

Since  t  he  aim  of  dishwosliing  is  to  clean  the  dishes  and  to  kill 
the  bacteria  that  may  l3(;  present  by  the  iLse  of  soapsuds  and 
scalding  water*  special  care  sitoutd  be  taken  in  case  of  ton- 
silitisi  colds,  and  other  infectious  diseases.     Unless  the  dishes 


i 


1 


I 


CARE  OF  THE  HOUSE 


of   the   patient  are  lx>iled,  the  germs  may  infect  the  whole 
family. 

'  Kikhen  towels  and  cupH, 
The  roller  towel  for  family  use  as  well  as  the  common  drink- 
ing-cup  must  be  discarded,  if  the  health  of  the  family  is  to  be 
safeguarded. 

Kitchen  dresses. 

Washable  work  dresses  are  the  only  kind  suitable  for  wearing 
in  a  kitchen.  They  have  been  proved  to  be  economical  of 
both  money  and  time.  They  may  be  made  of  various  inexpen- 
sive and  satisfactory  materials  (page  358).  Short  sleeves  and 
turndown  collars  or  no  collars  at  all  iidd  to  tlie  comfort  of  the 
worker.    The  design  should  be  the  simplest  possible, 

LlVlNG-ROOM   AND    DINING-ROOM 

The  window  shades  of  the  living-room  and  the  dining-room 
should  l>e  raised  more  than  halfway  to  let  in  the  sunshine, 
and  the  windows  should  be  opened  frequently  to  air  out  and 
to  keep  the  temperature  Ijelow  70^  F. 


I 
I 


SLEEPLVO-ROOMS 

The  ideal  sleeping-room  is  the  outdoor  porch  with  only  cur- 
tains for  protection.     An  indoor  sleeping-room  should  have 
simple  furnishings.     Unnecessary  draperies  collect  dust  and     _ 
exclude  air  and  sunshine.    The  floor  should  be  bare  save  for  a    ■ 
few  small,  easily  cleancn]  mgs.    The  wall  paper  should  L>e  of  a 
soft  restful  color,  either  plain  or  with  small  inconspicuous  figures. 

An  iron  bed  is  better  than  a  wooden  one  because  it  can  be 
more  easily  cleaned.  A  mattress  is  more  healthful  than  a 
feather  bed,  because  the  body  is  not  so  enveloped  as  to  liiiider 
the  escape  of  waste  matter  from  the  skin*  The  bed  covering 
should  be  warm  but  light.  Several  light-weight  blankets  or 
comforts  are  better  than  fewer  heavy  ones. 


BATHROOM 

Absolute  cleanliness  and  abundant  ventilation  are  essential 
in  a  sanitary  bathroom.    Kerosene  applied  with  a  special  brush 


I 


I 


J 


124 


A  MANUAL  OP  BOMB-MAKINO 


or  cloth  to  the  bathtub,  Ixjwl,  and  tnilet  and  washed  off  with 
a  (^ood  soap  *sohitioo  will  solve  most  of  the  difficyltie.s  of  cU^ning. 
All  brushes  or  i^Ioths  used  in  cleaning  the  bathroom  should  be 
thoroug^hly  wa^shed  in  eleiin  8oai>-suds,  rinsed  in  hot  water, 
and  dried  in  the  sunlight  each  time  after  being  used.  Occasional 
flushing  of  the  toilet  with  a  strong  solution  of  washing-soda  L^ 
desirable. 

Faucets,  door  knobs,  and  all  parts  of  the  toilet  ever  touched 
by  the  hands,  as  well  as  the  usually  cleaned  parts,  should  Ije 
washed  occasionally  with  a  solution  of  some  good  cUsinfectant^ 
such  as  creolin,  lysol,  or  alcohol. 

SUGGESTIONS    FOR  SWEEPING   AND    DUSTING 

Dust  should  be  avoided,  since  it  irritates  the  throat  and  may 
carr>'  germs.  If  jXKssible  a  vacuum  sweeper  should  Ix^  usec1»  If  a 
broom  is  used  it  should  be  dampened,  or  bits  of  moist  paper 
or  some  commercial  substance  for  sweeping  should  be  sprinkled 
over  the  floor.  In  sweeping,  short  strokes  should  be  taken 
away  from  the  person,  Rugs  which  can  be  cleaned  outdoors 
are  generally  preferable  to  carpets. 

Dustless  mops  and  dustless  dusters  are  sanitary'  labor-savers. 
They  can  be  made  at  home  by  flipping  the  mop  or  the  duster  in 
a  solution  of  some  vegetable  oil,  such  as  linseed  or  cottonseed 
oil,  in  gasoline  or  other  solvent,  about  one  tablespoon  of  oil  to 
one  pint  of  gasoline  being  used.  There  should  Iw  no  fire  in  the 
room  where  the  gasoline  is  used.  The  mop  or  duster  should  l>e 
hung  outdoors  until  the  gasoline  has  evaixjrated.  The  oil  will 
be  evenly  distributed  in  this  way.  The  duster  may  be  washe<i 
once  or  twice  l>efore  it  is  necessary  to  redip  it  in  the  oil 
solution. 

REPAIR   KIT 

A  well-stocked  repair  kit  should  be  a  part  of  the  equipment 
of  every  household.  It  should  be  placed  in  a  convenient  loca- 
tion and  should  contain:  hammer,  screwdriver,  plane,  phcrs, 


CAME  OF  THE  HOUSE 

awl,  oil-can,  saw,  soldering  outfit,  knife  sharpener,  twine,  shears, 
and  such  tacks,  nails,  sci*ews,  hooks,  and  w^ire  as  are  most  often 
in  demand, 

SOME   SPECIAL    DIRECTIONS   FOR   CLEANING* 

Ckuning  closet 

In  every  house  there  should  be  a  cupboard  or  a  closet  set 
aside  for  deaiiing  purposes,  *' with  a  place  for  everything  and 
everjiiiitig  in  its  place/ ^  The  cleaning  materials  and  apparatus 
listed  under  the  following  directions  are  not  expensive  and 
greatly  simplify  the  cleaning  pro!>lem.  Shelves  and  racks  should 
be  provided  for  holding  all  apparatus  and  materials  needed, 
and  as  far  as  possible  labels  should  show  where  each  brush, 
broom,  pail,  or  bottle  is  to  be  returned. 

The  following  list  of  materials  and  utensils  should  be  included 
in  the  housekeeper's  cleaning  kit: 


Cleaning  material 

Alcohol 

Paraffin 

Alum 

Rottenstone                                                 ' 

Ammonia 

Salt 

Bath  hnck 

Soap 

Black  lead 

Turpentine 

Borax 

Vinegar 

Furniture  polish 

Washing-soda 

KpTOsene 

Wax  (floor) 

Light  oil 

Whiting 

Olive  oil 

« 

Cleaning  artidea 

Apron,  stove 

Flannel,  heavy 

Carpet,  piece  old  hrussels 

Flannel,  waxing 

Chamois  skin  or  leather 

Flannelette  for  du5tera 

Cbeese-cloth 

Gloves,  rubber 

Cloth,  scrub 

Mittf  for  kerosene 

Cloth,  soft 

Waste,  cotton  (cotton  waste  may  he  boyght 

Flannel,  canton 

at  any  liardware  store) 

•Mary  Uric  Watson,     llule^  for  cleaning. 
the  Fann  Home,  Bull.  2J, 


Cornell  Reading-Course  for 


■■■i 


126 


.1   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Cleaning  ulenaila 
Irons 

Monkey  wrench 
Mop,  doth 
Mop,  at  ring 
Sftucepajis  (old) 
Scissors  (for  lamp) 
Step  ladder 
Tub 

Tub,  fibt^r 
Waalilioard 
Whisk-broom 
Wringer 


Boiler,  for  clothes 
Brush,  closet 
Brush,  cornice 
Brush,  sMTub 
Bruah,  soft 
Bruj^h,  trap 
Bruah,  weighted 
Brush,  wire  (for  sink) 
Carpet  sw'ecper 
Dauber 
Difih-pun;3 
Funnelfl 
Ironing  tablea 

To  clmn  lamps. 

The  apparatus  necessaiy  for  flcaniog  lamp  is  an  old  news- 
paper, the  kerosene  can,  a  damp  flannelette  duster » lamp  scissors, 
and  a  dry  towel. 

I,  Carr>^  the  lamps  to  a  sink,  or  to  a  table  convenient  to  the  sink. 
2.  Spread  the  paj>i'r  and  place  evt»rything  on  it.  ij.  Wash  and  dry  the 
lamp  chimneys  as  if  they  were  tuiiihlers.  4.  Open  up  the  knip  burner, 
screw  up  the  wick,  trim  off  all  the  char  with  the  scissors,  and  acrew^  down 
the  wick  %  inch  below  the  brass.  Round  wicks  munt  have  the  cliar  rubbed 
off  with  the  duster,  5,  Soap  one  corner  of  the  ditstrr  and  rub  carefully 
every  part  of  the  bra^  burner;  if  necessary,  polish  (see  copper,  page  232). 
6,  Fill  each  lamp  nearly  full  of  kerosene.  iSee  that  the  burner  is  properly 
screwed  on,  and  wiiK*  the  Uxly  of  the  lanip  carefully.  7.  Put  on  the  chim- 
neys and  sot  the  lamps  in  thc^ir  placei^.  8.  Wa^sh  the  m-issors  and  duster 
and  hang  the  dii*?ter  to  dry.  Gather  all  trimmings  in  the  paper  and  bum 
both  trimmings  aiitl  papii-r.    They  are  not  safe  to  leave  around. 

To  oil  a  kitchen  stave. 

L  Put  a  lit tk*  light  oil  on  a  wad  of  cotton  waste  and  rub  it  on  all  the 
iron  parts  of  the  stove,  2.  Rub  it  off  with  fresh  wai«te,  an  aM  cltith,  or 
dome  crumpled  paper.  3.  Polijih  it  with  a  dry  ilannelette  or  w<iolen  cloth 
until  all  oiltness  is  gtme.  4,  Burn  the  waste,  old  cloth,  or  paper  because 
oily  waste  and  oily  cloths  are  a  frequent  cause  of  fire  through  spontaneoua 
combustion.     5.  Wavsh  out  the  polishing  cloth. 

To  clmn  a  gas  &iom  thoroughhj. 
This  process  requiras  the  following  apparatus :    .\  stove  aproii7 
a  few  old  newspapers,  a  wire  sink-brush,  a  monkey  wrench^ 


d 


CARE  OF  THE  HOUSE 


whisk,  dustpan  and  brush,  a  sink  towel,  several  pieces  of  old 
cloth,  soap  and  washing-soda,  and  the  oil  bottle. 

L  Put  on  the  apron  imd  sproad  the  papers  on  the  table,  2,  T^im  off 
the  gas  at  the  main  supply  pipe  with  the  monkey  wrench,  3.  FiU  a  large 
disb-pan  with  Rtrong,  hot  Boapvsud;^,  put  into  it  to  soak  the  dripping-pan 
and  rack  and  any  movable  nickel  pieces  of  the  atuvo.  4.  Fill  a  tub  half 
full  of  strong,  hot  sodu-water.  Put  the  drop  tmy  in  the  bottom  to  soak, 
and  on  t*ip  of  it  put  the  top  i^ates,  doors,  and  all  movable  black  parts  of 
the  stove.  5.  Brush  out  both  ovens  and  all  p.irts  of  the  stove  frame, 
6,  Wet  one  of  the  old  cloths  in  hot  water^  rub  it  on  the  soap,  and  wa^nh  off 
the  stove.  Dry  it,  if  necessary^  with  an  old  cloth.  Then  oil  the  black  parts 
very  tightly  with  the  oil  and  polish  it  off  thoroughly  with  another  old  dry 
cloth-  7.  Remove  the  pieces  from  the  soda-water,  rinse  thera  in  the  sink 
in  frc^h  warm  water,  and  scrub  the  doors  and  other  black  piecra  with  the 
wire  brush.  Dry  them  otT,  oil  and  polish  them,  and  pot  them  back  on  the 
atove.  8.  Let  the  dirty  water  out  of  the  sink,  tran.sfer  the  nickel  pieces, 
dripping-pan,  and  rack  to  the  aink^  pour  in  the  soapy  water,  scrub  the 
pieces  thoroughly,  dry  tlieni  with  the  sink  towel,  and  return  them  to  place. 
9.  Scrub,  rinse,  dry,  and  return  to  place  the  drop  tray.  10.  Oil  the  stove 
after  all  the  parts  are  put  together,  11.  Burn  tlie  old  cloths  and  wash 
the  sink  out  carefully.  It  is  especially  necessary  to  be  careful  about  burn- 
ing oily  cloths  that  are  not  washed  after  using,  because  they  have  l>een 
known  to  take  fire  s|>ontaneoi2sly  and  are  therefore  dangerous  when  tucked 
into  corners  out  of  sight. 

To  clean  windows. 

A  high  stf^pkiclder,  fiber  tub^  damp  flannelette  duster,  scrub 
cloth,  soft  linen  towtd,  chamois  leather^  ammonia,  and  warm 
water  are  nece^ssary  to  clean  windows. 

1.  Fill  the  tub  half  full  of  warm  w^ater  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  am- 
nionia  or  a  few  drops  of  kerosene.  2.  Carr>'  the  ladder  to  the  Tvindow,  roll 
up  the  shade,  and  lake  it  down.  Unroll  it  on  the  floor  or  over  a  table, 
then  roll  it  up,  du.sting  both  sides  as  it  rolb,  8tand  it  aside,  marking  to 
which  window  it  belongs  if  more  than  one  is  being  cleantxi.  3.  Dust  the 
window,  especially  the  surrounding  woodwork,  with  the  damp  flannelette 
duster.  4.  Wai^h  the  ghiss,  especially  corners,  and  dry  with  the  linen  toweL 
5.  Polish  with  the  chamois  leather.  0.  Replace  the  shade,  t(*sting  carefully^ 
find  make  sure  the  spring  works  properly.  7.  Wash  out  the  tub^  towel, 
cloth^  and  duster.  Hang  the  cloths  to  dry  and  put  everything  else  away. 
8.  If  chamois  leather  is  not  available,  use  crumpled  newspaper.  9.  The 
following  mixture  may  be  used  instead  of  ammonia  and  water,  but  the 
resulting  white  dust  must  be  carefully  wiped  up:  1  tablespoonful  pre- 
cipitated whiting;  2  tablcspoonfuls  household  ammonia* 


I 


I 


d 


128 


A   M AXIAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


L 


To  dean  a  piano  co^c. 

A  bottle  of  olive  oil,  a  liottle  of  alcohol,  some  new  or  perfectly 
clean  canton  tiannel,  a  perfectly  clean  chamois  leather,  and  a 
basin  of  water  will  l>e  needed  to  clean  a  piano. 

1.  Wet  a  small  piece  of  the  flannel  and  drop  on  it  a  few  drops  of  oil, 
2,  Rub,  with  the  wet  flannel,  a  siiuiil  section  of  the  casa  at  a  time,  and 
immfxiiately  rub  it  thoroughly  witb  a  dry  pitTC  of  the  Il:inneh  Ix'fore 
proceeding  to  a  fresh  stHition.  3.  Polish  it  finatly  with  ttie  chanKMH  or  a  fresh 
piece  of  the  flannel.  Hub  with  the  grain  of  the  wocwl,  and  breathe  on  it 
occasionally  to  help  reniove  any  oilincss  that  may  remain.  A  verj-^  little 
flour  rul>bed  with  the  grain  of  the  wood  will  also  help  lo  remove  oilineaa, 
but  iia  use  should  not  be  necessary.  4.  Wa*h  the  ptano  kcya  with  a  comer 
of  the  flannel  wet  with  alcohoL  lio  careful,  iKnvcver^  to  avoid  touching 
the  wood  with  the  alcohol,  oa  it  will  ruin  the  varnish. 

To  wax  a  floor. 

In  waxinp^  floors,  the  following  apparatus  is  necessary:  a 
can  of  floor  wax,  a  waxing  flannel,  a  half  yard  of  heavy  flannel 
or  a  piece  of  old  briLssels  carpet,  and  a  weighted  bnisli. 

L  The  floor  must  l>e  clean  and  frt?e  from  duBt,  2.  If  neceasary,  stand 
the  wax  can  in  a  dish  c)f  hot  water  in  order  to  soften  the  wax-  3.  Rub 
the  waxing  flannel  on  the  wax  and  put  a  very  thin,  even  layer  of  wax  on 
the  floor.  It  is  !>etter  to  rub  along  the  lioards  Ihan  across*  Start  at  the 
corner  farthest  from  the  door,  and  do  not  t^tep  on  the  waxed  part.  4.  Put 
away  the  wax  and  flannel,  ar*d  keep  off  the  floor  for  at  least  three  hours. 
The  polishing  can  be  done  after  standing  an  hour,  hut  is  more  work. 
5.  Fold  the  piece  of  heavy  flannel  twice,  making  Umr  layere,  put  it  down 
on  the  floor^  put  the  weighted  brush  on  it,  and  rub  each  hoard,  with  the 
grain,  until  it  shines.  The  piece  of  carpet  makes  an  excellent  sukstitute 
for  the  flanneb  The  jxilishing  can  be  done  on  the  hands  and  knees  without 
a  weighted  brush,  but  is  much  harder  work* 


CHAPTER  V 

HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE 

The  modern  Ijousehold  should  be  etiuippod  with  well-selected 
measuring  appliances  which  can  be  intelligently  iised  not  only 
to  help  standardize  the  daily  housework  and  living  conditions 
in  the  home  but  also  to  insure  and  promote  just  dealing  in  the 
community.  The  exact  v:due  of  units  used  nuist  be  clearly 
known.  Since  tlic  use  of  the  metric  system  (page  167)  is  for- 
tunately becoming  more  widespread,  future  generations  may 
escape  the  problems  arising  from  the  viigueness  and  ambiguity 
of  the  systems  now  in  common  use  in  this  country.* 

MEASUREMENTS    FOR   COMMODITIES 

Measuring  apparatus  for  household  commodities  should  be 
tested  and  seuletl  by  the  local  sealer  of  weights  and  measures, 
at  the  time  of  purchase. 

Weighing  scale. 

A  weighing  scale  should  have  a  capacity  of  10  t^  30  pounds 
or  more,  and  shooltl  1h*  graduated  to  1  ounce  or  lei^s.  Among 
good  types  on  the  market  are  the  hanging-pan  spring  scale, 
the  counter  beam  scale,  and  the  beam  scale  of  tlie  steelyard 
type  designed  to  hang  from  a  bracket.  The  cheap  scale  in 
which  the  connuodit}^  pan  stands  aljove  the  spring,  is  likely 
to  be  inaccurate. 

To  use  the  scale  properly,  the  following  precautions  should 
l>e  observed:  (1)  Handle  it  carefully,  and  keep  it  clean  and  dry. 
(2)  Keep  it  in  balance.  A  properly  constructed  scale  will  rarely 
get  out  of  balance,  Imt  the  proper  way  of  adjusting  a  particular 

*Tho  following  iniiUTial  in  tliin  chiqHiT.  with  the  rxcoption  nf  (he  tables 
indicated,  Ls  c<)nderisp<l  from  Mca.sLiremen(3  far  the  Household,  Circ.  5o, 
publbhed  by  the  Bur,  of  Standards,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Commerce. 

129 


I 


130  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


kind  of  scale  should  Ix?  Icamecl.    (3)  Keop  the  eye  squarely 
front  of  the  point  of  the  scab  that  is  lieing  read.     (4)  Do  not 
weigh  a  fornmoility  in  rardi>oartl  or  other  heavy  covering  with- 
out weighing  the  covering  separately  and  deducting  its  weight 
from  the  total  weight* 

Liquid  mecmures. 

The  supply  of  liquid  measures  should  include  a  quart,  a  pint, 
and  a  half-pint  nieasurc,  and  a  i-ounce  glass  graduate  subdivide! 
to  1  dram  or  less  for  measuring  small  quantities  of  liquids  and 
determining  the  errors  in  larger  quantities.  The  measures 
should  be  eyhndrical  or  conical  with  the  top  diameter  smaller 
than  the  bottom,  and  made  of  metal,  enamehvare,  comiKPsition, 
or  similar  and  suiiaiilc  material.  They  should  be  strong  and 
rigid  enough  to  withstand  ordinary  usage. 

To  te:st  the  quantity  of  a  liquid  as  delivered,  the  following 
directions  will  be  useful:  Pour  the  liquicj  into  the  measure. 
If  it  docs  not  fill  the  measure,  pour  it  out  and  fill  the  measure 
with  water  to  the  same  ptJint  that  the  purchased  liquid  rea(*hed. 
This  can  he  done  by  observing  the  wet  ring  left  ai'ound  the 
measure.  Then  put  a  dclinite  cpiantity  of  water  into  the  gradu- 
ate, and  complete  the  filling  of  the  measure.  The  difference 
between  the  quantity  of  liquid  remaining  in  the  graduate  and 
the  original  quantity  put  in  is  the  shortage.  If  the  quantity 
of  liquid  ordered  more  than  fills  the  test  measure,  the  check  for 
error  is  made  on  the  last  portion  poured  into  the  measure. 

To  avoid  mistakes  in  reading  cone  graduates,  it  should  he 
noted  that  these  are  sometimes  more  finely  subdivided  at  the 
base  than  at  the  top. 

A  graduate  should  Ive  held  level  in  filling  it  or  reading  it. 
It  should  l>e  read  at  the  main  surface  of  the  liquid,  not  at  the 
point  to  which  the  small  amount  of  liquid  creeps  on  the  sides 
of  the  glass. 

Dry  measures, 

A  nest  of  dry  measures  holding  from  J  2  bushel  to  1  quart 
may  be  necessary",  although  the  growing  tendency  is  to  sell  dry 
commodities  by  weight.     The   weight  of  a  bushel  of  certain 


H 

m    ^ 

I 


I 
I 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE     131 

common  dry  commodities,  as  fixed  by  law  in  certain  states,  is 
given  on  page  162.  Dry  measures  should  be  of  metal,  or  of 
well-varnished  wood  with  a  metal  band  around  the  top,  or  of 
some  similar  and  suitable  material.  They  should  preferably 
be  cylindrical.  If  they  are  conical,  the  top  dianieter  should 
exceed  the  l>ottom  diameter  by  an  amount  not  greater  than 
10  per  cent  of  the  lx)ttom  diatneten  The  diameters  should  in 
no  case  be  less  than  the  following: 

For  li  bu^el .  .    13V4  inches 

For  1  r>wk ICVb  inches 

For  ?  2  l>eck  8V2  inches 

For  two  quart:.  f>fr/jj  inchea 

For  1  quart    .                                                           .,  SVe  int-hcs 
For  1  pint 4      inches 

Length  measure. 
For  measuring  length,  a  yardstick  and  a  tape  3  or  G  feet  in 
length  aie  recommended. 

TEMPERATURE 

The  following  thermometers  should  be  a  part  of  the  equip- 
ment of  every  household: 

R 00m -4cfnpe ra I urc  th enimmHtr, 

To  ij^ivc  a  fair  measure  of  the  temperature  of  a  room,  a  ther- 
mometer should  l)e  plaeed  about  four  feet  from  the  floor,  away 
from  a  stove,  nuliator,  or  ventihition  Hue  and  not  on  an  out- 
side wall.  Under  certain  conditions  fifteen  nunutes  or  more  may 
be  required  to  show  the  correct  temperature  if  a  thermometer 
is  moved. 

Outdoor  thermometer. 

To  indicate  the  real  temperature  of  outdoor  air  as  given  in 
the  weather  reports,  a  thermometer  must  I>e  mounted  in  a 
specially  well  ventilated  house  or  box  four  feet  from  the  ground 
and  so  built  as  to  shield  tlie  thermometer  entirely  from  direct 
f?unlight.  Nearl}'  the  same  results  may  be  secured  Ijy  placing 
a  thentiometer  in  an  open  shady  place,  possibly  at  the  north  of 
a  building,  several  feet  away  from  the  walls  and  four  feet  from 
the  ground. 


I 


^ 


132 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


itj^ 


*!>' 


105- 


t6' 


-«jr 


-lir 


2J- 


y=n  tr  r-^ 


"5^ 


-1^ 


CHnicd  tliermomekr. 

The  usyal  cliiijcal  thermometer  is  a  '*ma: 
mum  *'  thermometer,  that  Is,  the  mercury  in 
the  stem  registers  the  highest  temperature 
reaehed  and  does  not  return  when  the  ther- 
mometer is  cooled,  hut  nmst  be  shaken  back 
before  another  temperature  can  be  measured. 
For  this  rea.s€>n  tlie  thermometer  may  be 
removed  from  the  mouth  and  read  later. 

The  usual  type^  of  'Mens4ront*'  thermome- 
ter is  so  made  that  the  front  of  the  glass  tute 
acts  as  a  lens  mai^nifying  the  width  of  the 
mercur>^  thread.  To  read  such  a  tliermome- 
ter,  it  should  lie  held  in  the  hand  and  turned 
until  the  increuiy  column  suddenly  appears 
magnified  to  eonsideraijle  width.  This  will 
occur  when  the  clear  corner  of  the  triangular 
tube  is  directly  in  front.  The  reading  can 
then  be  made,  remembering  that  the  smallest 
th visions  of  the  scale  are  usually  0°.2.  The 
mercury  should  then  be  shaken  back  into  the 
bulb  by  holding  the  thermometer  firmly  l>e- 
tween  thmnb  and  forefinger,  Imlb  outward, 
and  giving  a  few  wry  brisk  shakes  from  the 
wrist,  or  with  the  ann,  and  then  seeing  that 
the*  thermometer  reads  as  low  as  OG^  F.  or 
35^.5  C.  The  thermometer  should  never  be 
tapped  against  a  hard  sul>stance,  as  this  is 
almost  certain  to  break  the  bulb. 

Bath  thermometers. 

Bath  thermometers  usually  have  their 
scales  printed  on  paiyvr  or  milk  glass  contained 
in  a  large  glass  tube  which  inc]os4\s  the  ther- 
mometer capillar>\  They  are  often  protected 
by  a  wooden  cage  to  prevent  breakage.  When 
thus  protected,  it  may  take  some  time  to  ol>- 

Flo.  40.-^Com(>arisoo  of  CcntigrBde  and  Fahrenheit  scaler  for  m«'ti8uritifs  tem- 
perature. 


-"> 


^-U 


=;r--4 


I 

I 
I 


-i> 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    133 

tain  the  real  temperatui'e  of  the  xvatrr  unless  the  thermometer 
is  kept  movinR.  The  temf>eraturas  in  dilTerent  parts  of  a  tub  of 
water  may  ciiiTer  iiiiiQy  degrees  ualcss  tlie  water  has  been  well 
mixed. 

A  bath  thermometer  should  be  read  while  it  is  in  the  water 
because  the  reatlings  will  ehaopje  veiy  rapidly  when  the  ther- 
mometer is  taken  out  of  wai*m  water. 

Milk  thcrtnom^krs. 

Milk  thermometers  are  useful  in  meawuring  the  temperature 
of  milk  or  eroaiii,  for  the  control  of  pasteurizing  milk,  churning 
cream,  whipping  cream »  and  the  like.  These  processes  are  best 
earned  out  at  definite  temperatures.  Some  of  these  milk  ther- 
mometers are  purposely  made  large  and  light  bo  that  they  will 
float,  making  their  use  more  convenient. 

Candy-nmking  thennmnekrs. 

These  thermometers  are  for  use  in  making  candies,  boiling 
sirups,  and  the  like.  The  thermometer  should  not  be  too  near 
the  bottom  or  the  sides  of  the  kettle,  nor  yet  should  it  be  at 
the  point  where  Ijoiling  is  most  violent.  Some  of  the  tempera* 
tures  at  which  boiling  simps  should  be  removed  from  the  hrc 
to  make  dilTerent  kinds  of  candies,  as  well  as  other  iLseful  in- 
formation  as  to  temperature,  are  given  in  Table  II. 

A  candy-making  tliermorneter  may  be  tested  for  accuracy 
as  follows:  First  find  the  boiling  |>oint  for  any  altitude  from 
Table  I  (thus  at.  2,tMX)  feet  elevation  the  avenige  temperature  is 
208'*  F.  or  OS"'  il);  then  hold  the  thermometer  with  its  bulb  well 
inmiersed  in  a  dish  of  Ijriskly  boiling  ptire  water,  and  read  the 
highest  temperatmc  reached.  If  this  differs  from  that  found  in 
the  table,  the  thermometer  is  too  high  or  too  low  by  this  dif- 
ference. 

Oven  thermmmters. 

Various  kinds  of  thermometers  are  tised  for  reading  oven 
temperatures.  One  kind  is  placed  in  the  oven  door  and  has  a 
dial  with  a  hand  for  indicating  the  teoiperatures.  These  ther- 
mometers may  not  indicate  the  true  temperature  of  the  oven 
because  the  door  never  Ijecomes  as  hot  as  the  remainder  of  the 


^m 


134  A  AfANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


i 


oven,  and  often  takes  much  longer  in  heating  uj).  However 
since  temperatures  sornetiirips  neeti  not  he  known  more  accu 
rately  than  witliin  10  or  20  dei^rties,  sueh  thermometers  are  \ise- 
ful  and  are  more  convenient  than  those  wiiich  have  to  be  hung 
inside  the  oven.  One  kind  of  tliermomcter  which  reads  up  to 
550"*  F.,  is  made  to  screw  into  a  special  opening  in  the  range* 
It  may  be  hung  inside  the  oven,  but  in  thLs  case  the  door  must  be 
opened  or  a  window  provided  m  order  to  read  it. 

Tests  for  ihermometers, 

Househokl  thermometers  from  reliable  makers  are  usually 
correct  to  witliin  1  or  2  degrees  at  room  temperature  and  below, 
although  sometimes  tliey  are  several  degrees  in  error* 

Any  thermometer  which  has  32°  F,  or  0°  C.  on  its  scale  may  be 
easily  testetl  at  this  point  by  scraping  a  tumbler  full  of  clear  ice, 
saturating  this  with  ice-cold,  pure  water,  and  placing  thr  ther- 
mometer bulb  in  this  mixture  until  it  reads  as  low  as  it  will 
go.  Clean  snow  saturated  with  water  may  also  be  used,  but 
if  the  snow  is  left  drj^  it  may  be  much  colder  than  32^  F.  If  the 
thermometer  tested  mads  32°  F.  or  0^  C,  it  is  correct  at  thb 
point.  If  higher  or  lower  than  this,  it  is  too  high  or  too  low  by 
the  amount  of  the  difTerence  observed.  Such  a  test  is  reliable 
to  a  tenth  of  a  degree  if  earefully  made,  _ 

For  other  temperatures  there  are  no  tests  whicli  are  quite  as  ■ 
convenient  or  relialjle  as  for  the  ice  point.  The  st^am  point, 
212^  F.  or  100°  C\,  is  used  in  the  testing  of  thermometei-s  in  the 
laboratory,  but  the  steam  temperature  depends  on  the  liaru- 
metric  reading,  wliich  varies  with  the  weather,  and  with  the 
altitude  of  the  place  whei*e  the  water  is  boiled.  For  places 
within  500  feet  of  sea  level,  the  temperature  shown  by  a  ther- 
mometer immersed  in  a  steam  l>ath  over  briskly  boiling  water^ 
or  in  the  water  itself  if  the  same  is  pure,  should  Ije  between 
210*"  and  21 2"*  F.,  or  l>etween  09°,  and  lOO*"  C.  For  higher  alti- 
tudes the  temperature  will  be  lower,  as  may  be  seen  from 
Table  L  The  temperatures  given  in  this  table  are  averages  only 
and  variations  of  1°  F,  or  0°.6.  C.  may  take  place  from  day  to 
day  because  of  changes  in  the  barometric  pressure. 


I 


1 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    135 

If  a  tested  rlinieal  thermomcLer  is  at  liand,  it  fairly  acTurate 
test  at  aljout  100"^  F,  may  be  niade.  A  thermoiiieter  which  is 
correct  at  the  ice  point  and  at  about  100^  F.  will  probably  be 
correct  at  other  teniiJcraturoR.  Clinical  fhemiometers  should 
}>e  tested  by  a  competent  testing  laboratory,  such  as  that  at  the 
United  States  Bureau  of  Standards. 

TABLE  I. — BoiuNo  Foist  or  Water  and  Average  Bahometer 
Readings  foh  Different  Altitdbes 


AUitude 

Temperature  of  slmm 

C&rreckd  baromeler 
A  i^Tiige  reudings 

De^eeit  F. 

Degmca  C, 

Ifichv^ 

MiUimetens 

212.0 
208,3 
204.6 
201.1 
197.0 
1 94.0 

100.0 
97.9 
95.9     . 
93.9 
92.0 
90  0 

29.9 
27.8 
25.8 
24.0 
22.3 
20  7 

760 

III 

706 
655 

610 

8000  feet 

566 

10.000  feet 

526 

'IWBT.E    IL  — I'sKPrL     rUMPEHATLTUEH 


Mercury  freezes 

Freesdag  cold  stomge 

Water  freezes 

Danger  of  frost . . 

Household  refrigerator^  proper  temperature .    ,  .  _ 

Churning 

Gymmksium,  or  rooms  whore  a<reiipuiiLs  iire  adivr^h' 
engaged  in  physical  work  or  exerci^p    


I 


Ripening  of  crenin    ... 

Rooms  where  occupants  are  not  exercising 

Normal  temperature  of  the  human  body  determined  by 

thermoifiettr  under  the  toni?uo, .  ,  .    

Incubator  tenjp<*rature  .  , 


Degrees 
Centin 
^rode 


—m 

—IS 

0 

0 

+  1 

7 

m 
n 

17 

13 
18 
21 
20 
21 

37 

39 


Degrees 

Fahren^ 

heil 


-38 

0 

+32 

32 

39 

45 

55 

52 

62 

55 
65 
70 

68      ; 
70 

08.6 
103 


136 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  U.—CofUinueft 


l^i^A  ™ 


High  ftrver,  icitjperature  njeasured  as  above , 
Paat^urizing  milk ....        ...__.._.,. 

Paaipurizing  milk  (flash  process) .  .  , 
Water  boils  at  normal  pressure ...... 

Plain  sugar  siniija: 

For  airupp  11  pounds  to  the  gallon 

For  fondant  candies 


For  fudge  and  other  candii^  of  like  nat  uro  . 

For  taffy  and  like  hard  candicH  to  l>e  pulleti 

For  clear  brittle  randies,  peanut  brittle,  etc 

For  almond  and  walnut  brittle.  .  . 
Melting  pciint  of  (*oinrnfm  soft  solder 
Oven  temperatures  for  baking: 

Custards,  meringues^  pies,  puddings,  etc. 

Sponge  cake,  bread,  gingerbread,  plain  cake,  and 
cookies , 


Parker  House  rolls,  popovcrs,  and  biscuits 

Biscuit  and  pastry .  . 

Melting  point  of  lead 

Melting  jioint  of  aluminum 


Degrees 

Degrees      * 

Cenii' 

Fahretp- 

grade 

heii 

U)  0 

105 

m 

145 

71 

IGO 

IfM) 

212 

l(M 

219 

j  n:i 

230 

240 

115 

240 

149 

300 

Ifj4 

310 

157 

315 

185 

305 

121 

250 

177 

350 

177 

a,v» 

mi 

400 

204 

400 

232 

45(J 

232 

450 

2K7 

550 

.'i27 

021      m 

t>5f) 

121S        1 

TABLE  III.— A  Tadlk  of  Tempkraturks  • 


ProeeiiH 

lh(free.\ 
VitUigrnde 

Dcgreex 
Fahrenheit 

Freesing  of  fruit  ices  (tempcraturt*  o! 

medium) 

Freezing  of  water ... 
Whipping  of  cream  ,  , 
6utier>making .  ,  , . , 

-5  to —8 
0 
3  to  10 
15  to  16 

20  to  40 

23  to  IS 

32 
37  to  50 

GO 

Haaang   of   bread    (temperature    of 
room)    .                   ,  . 

79  to  104 

•  Williams,  Anna  W.,  and  Gray,  Cora  E,,  Cooking  Temperatures^  Bull 
47.  Univ,  of  111, 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    137 


TABLE  111. —Cmlinued 


Degrees 

Dtgrees     | 

f^rocess 

Cenligrade 

FahrenheU 

Cheese-nmkini? . 

37  to  60              1 
(Depi-nds  upon  aridity) 

98  6  to  140 

Coagulation  of  albumin 

Begins  56;  completes  71 

133  to  100 

Simmering  of  water.  .  . 

82  to  m 

180  to  210 

Soft  custards 

82  to  84 

179  to  183 

Dfjuble  boilpr,  top  part 

89  to  94 

192  to  201 

Bfjiling  water  at  8i>a  levri . 

I()0 

212 

Jellips  (boiling  point  of  water  10()°  C.) 

103 

185 

Sugar  cw>kerv  (boiling  point  of  water 

100°  C.) 

Fondaat 

113 

235 

Fudge  frosting,  boiled. 

111 

232 

I  egg  white  to  1  cup  sugar 

113  to  115 

235  to  239 

2  egg  whites  to  1  cup  .sugjir 

117 

243 

1  egg  white  to  1  cup  of  dark 

brown  i<ugar* 

125 

257 

1  tgg  wbit-e  to  J4  cup  of  dark 

brown   sugar,    li   cup 

white .    , 

122 

252 

*  Roasting  of  meat 

Temperature  of  oven 

First  15  minutes  .  .    

250 

450 

Renminder  of  time ,  .    . 

175 

347 

Temperature  of  meat  interior 

Rare  done 

4ri.5to60 

115  7  to  140 

Mefiium 

60  to  70 

140  to  158 

Well  done 

70  to  80 

ISH  to  176 

Deep-fat  fr>'ing.  Temperature  of  fat 

for 

Uncooked  foods 

175  to  190 

347  to  374 

Cooked  foods 

185  to  205 

365  to  401 

Cold,  wet,  uncooked  foods,  r. 

im  to  195 

374  to  383 

Baking.     Temperature  of  center  of 

oven  for 

Sponge  cakes 

175  to  1!K1 

347  to  374 

Angel  ffMHl  cakee .,,,,, 

IM  to  170 

302  to  338 

Souffl^i?  (surrounded  hy  water) 

200 

392 

Bread . 

180  to  220 

356  to  428 

*  Spraguo,  ElizaljM^fh,  and  Grindley,  H.  C,  "A  Precise  Method  of  Roaflt- 
ingBeef/'  Univ.  of  IIL  Bull,  Vol  IV,  Nn.  19. 


d 


138 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 
TABLE  II I. —Con/mfierf 


ProcesJi 


Butter  cakos 

Loaf, 

Layer 

Muffiiia 

ParkiT house  rolls.  .... 

Baked  potatr>e8 

Baking  powder  biacuit , 

Popovers 

*  Pastry 


Degrees 

Degrees 

Centigrade 

Fahrenheit 

190 

374 

210 

410 

220  to  235 

428  to  455 

235                  1 

455 

235 

455 

235  to  240 

455  to  404 

235  to  200 

4.55  to  392 

240                 1 

404 

I 


^Sprague,  EUzahelh,  *'8tudiert  tif  MetluKb  in  Food  FrcparatioD,'* 
Journal  of  Home  Economics,  Vol,  III,  No.  6,  p*  440, 

TLME 

The  usual  docks  found  in  the  home  may  be  divided  into 
two  classes,  the  niantet  or  wall  clock  tyf>o,  which  has  a  pendu- 
lum, and  the  common  alaiTn-elock  tyiK\  in  which  the  movement 
is  controlled  by  the  ^dl^rations  of  a  balance  wheel,  as  in  a  watch. 
The  second  variety  is  quite  portable  and  will  asually  run  in  any 
pasition^  but  the  pendulum  clock  must  1>e  kept  fixed  In  an  up- 
right position  and  miLst  Ix^  adjusted  every  time  it  is  moved. 

Moving  a  pendtdum  dock. 

The  pendulum  clock  usually  has  its  pendulum  siLspended  by 
thin  Hat  spring,  and  to  avoid  breaking  this  spring  wlien  the 
clock  is  to  be  moved  from  one  place  to  another,  it  is  \>est  either 
to  unhook  the  bol>  froni  the  pendulum  rod  or  to  secure  the 
pendulum  tightly  to  the  clock  works  or  case  so  that  it  cannot 
swing.  In  setting  up  such  a  clock  after  removal,  it  is  necessary 
to  put  the  clock  *'in  beat**;  that  is,  to  make  the  successive  vi- 
brations of  the  penduhmi,  or  the  time  l)etwe(?n  successive  ticks 
of  the  clock,  of  equal  length.  This  must  \wt  done  by  carefully 
leveling  the  clock  on  its  support,  unless  the  clock  is  provided 
with  adjusting  thumbscrew!5  at  the  top  of  the  pendulum  by  the 
movement  of  which  one  way  or  the  other  it  can  be  made  to 
beat  uniformly. 


I 


m 

bya  ■ 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASURE^MENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    139 


Selling  a  clock. 

The  setting  of  a  pendulum  clock  is  usually  'jest  done  by  turn- 
ing the  minute  hand  forward,  several  revolutions  if  necessary, 
t«  bring  the  hour  hand  U*  the  correct  hour.  If  the  clock  does 
not  have  a  striking  mechanism,  the  hour  hand,  which  is  usually 
held  on  its  slightly  conical  shaft  by  friction,  may  bo  moved 
fonvard  a  sufficient  nmnber  of  hours,  and  tlic  minute  hand  ad- 
justed to  the  correct  minute.  As  the  hour  hand  may  have  be- 
come loosened  on  its  shaft  !iy  tliis  procedure,  however,  it  should 
be  pressed  tightly  into  place  after  it  is  set  correctly.  In  some 
clocks  with  a  striking  mechanism,  the  minute  hand  should  not 
be  moved  backward  across  a  striking  point,  although  it  can, 
without  injury,  be  moved  back  short  distances  in  other  parts 
of  the  dial  to  set  it  correctly. 

Regulaling  a  clock. 

Few  clocks  of  either  the  pendulum  or  the  alarm-clock  type 

are  made  with  devices  to  compensate  for  changes  in  temperature, 
and  as  these  changes  will  alter  the  rate,  it  is  desirable  to  keep 
the  clock  in  the  part  of  a  rooiu  wlierc  its  temperature  will  be 
most  constant.  Even  with  the  Ix^st  conditions  in  this  respect, 
it  will  Ix?  necessary  to  regulate  the  clock's  rate  freciucntly  on 
account  of  the  changes  of  tenifx^rature  w^th  season  oi  with  the 
conditions  of  heating  or  cooling  of  the  room.  A  rise  of  tempera- 
ture will  lengthen  the  pendulum  rod  and  make  the  clock  nm 
more  slowly.  It  will  be  necessary,  therefore,  to  raise  the  pendu- 
lum  bob  by  turning  tfie  supporting  nut,  unless  an  adjustment 
device  is  provided  by  which  a  contact  point  on  the  suspension 
spring  at  the  top  of  the  pendulum  can  be  changed.  This  is 
done  by  turning  a  key  to  right  or  left  in  a  small  keyhole 
in  the  face  of  the  clock,  usually  near  the  upper  part  of  the 
dial.  This  has  Jhe  effect  of  shortening  or  lengthening  the 
pendulum. 

In  the  alarm-clock  type^  the  regulatioo  is  done  by  moving 
a  small  lever,  usually  at  the  back  of  the  clock,  which  engages 
with  the  hairspring  on  the  balance  wheel,  and  so  decreases  or 
increases  the  effective  length  of  the  spring,  thus  controlling 


I 
I 


140  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


the  time  of  a  vibmtion  of  the  balance.    The  lever  should 

moved  toward  the  letter  '*S**  when  one  wishe.^  to  make  the 
clock  run  more  i?!owly  and  toward  *'  V '-  wlieri  it  shoiikl  run 
faster.    The  same  rule  applies  in  the  rej^ulation  of  a  watch. 

When  rej^ulatin^  a  pendulum  clock  by  the  key  device,  the 
key  should  be  turned  overhand  toward  the  letter  **S"  or  **F," 
according  as  one  wishes  to  make  the  clock  run  more  slowly  or 
faster.  If  there  are  no  indicating  letters  (*'F'*  and  **S*')  pro- 
vided, the  usual  rule  is  to  turn  the  key  in  the  direction  the 
hands  move  to  make  it  go  faster  or  counterclockwise  to  make 
it  run  more  tilo^vly. 

The  amount  of  movement  required  to  correct  the  rate  must 
generally  be  found  by  trial  Thus,  if  the  clock  gains  five  min- 
utes a  day,  and  one  turns  the  key  of  the  regulator  two  revolu- 
tions toward  ''8/'  or  moves  the  lever  of  an  alarm  clock  two 
divisions  toward  '*S/'  and  the  clock  then  lostvs  three  minutes 
a  day,  one  can  obtain  nearly  zero  rate  by  turning  the  key 
three-fiiiarl.ers  of  a  revolution  back  toward  *'F''  or  by  mov* 
ing  the  lever  three-C|uarters  of  a  division  back  toward  **F-** 
In  some  pendulum  clocks  there  may  l»e  some  motion  lost  in 
reversing  the  regulation,  and  this  should  l>e  taken  into  account 
in  estimating  the  amount  to  move  the  regulator. 

To  correct  the  strikiiig  of  a  dock. 

While  some  clocks  of  a  more  recent  type  have  the  hour  and 
minute  pinions  and  the  striking  mechanism  so  geared  together 
that  it  is  almost  impossible  for  the  clock  to  strike  wrongly,  this 
frequently  happens  with  other  types  of  clocks.  This  difficulty 
can  be  remedied  easily  in  the  latt^T  case  by  several  methods. 
One  method,  which  can  be  used  in  case  the  hour  hand  is  held 
in  position  on  its  shaft  by  friction  only,  is  to  move  the  hour 
hand  backward  or  forward  an  hour  or  more  vus  may  be  neces- 
sarj^  to  make  the  hour  indicated  by  the  clock-face  agree  with 
the  striking  mechanism,  pressing  the  hour  hand  tight  on  its 
shaft  aft^erwards,  as  described  above*  Then  the  clock  should 
be  set  to  correct  time  by  moving  the  minute  hand  around  the 
dial  the  necessary  number  of  times^  allowing  the  clock  to  strike 


;be| 


I 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE     141 

the  full  amount  each  time  the  hiiiMl  passes  the  XII  point  before 
approaching  that  point  again.  This  method  is  especially  con- 
venient when  the  clock  strikes  one  or  two  strokes  less  than  it 
should.  When  it  strikes  more  strokes  than  it  shouldi  the 
same  method  may  be  used,  or  tbi}  minute  hand  may  be 
turned  ahead  rapidly  so  that  it  will  again  pass  through  the  XII 
point  while  the  clock  is  still  strildng  for  the  previous  hour.  By 
so  doing  the  striking  mechanism  is  not  reletise<l  to  strike  the 
following  hour,  and  thus  an  hour  is  gainetl  in  the  face  indica- 
tion of  the  clock  compared  with  the  striking.  This  may  be 
repeated  as  many  times  as  the  number  of  strokes  by  which  the 
striking  meclianism  was  in  error.  The  clock  may  then  be  set  to 
correct  time  in  the  usual  way,  allowing  it  to  strike  the  full 
amount  on  each  passage  of  the  XII  jwint,  or  the  clock  may 
be  stopped  for  as  many  hours  as  it  is  fast,  until  again  it  indi- 
cates the  correct  hour,  wdien  it  can  be  started  and  set  correct 
without  the  necessity  of  striking  all  the  ninei  ten,  or  eleven 
hours  that  may  have  intervened* 

Some  clocks  have  a  lever  in  the  movement — an  extension  of 
the  striking  mechanism  release  arm  or  shaft — which  can  be 
moved  up  or  down  to  release  the  striking  mechanism  and  al- 
low it  to  strike  as  many  hours  as  are  necessaiy  to  bring 
it  into  agreement  with  the  indication  of  the  hands.  Or,  if  a 
special  lever  for  tlic  piwposc  is  not  providedj  it  is  sometimes 
easy,  on  opening  the  door  to  the  works  of  the  clock,  to  find 
the  release  arm  itself  and  by  raising  it  accomplish  the  same 
result. 


Care  of  timepieces. 

Precautions  should  be  taken  not  only  with  clocks  but  also 
with  watches  to  keep  them  at  a  constant  temperature  if  one 
wishes  to  obtain  the  best  results  with  them.  If  possible  a  watch 
should  be  kept  at  nearly  the  same  temperature  at  night  as 
during  the  day.  The  variations  with  the  drop  in  temperature 
at  night  will  alTect  the  rate  of  the  alarm  clock  uncompensated 
for  temperature  much  more  than  that  of  a  watch,  which  is  usu- 
ally compensated  for  Iiigh  and  low  temperatures. 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

The  careful  handling  of  a  timepiece  of  i\m  balanee-wheel 
type — clock  or  watch— is  ako  important,  because  of  the  effect 
on  the  adjiiistment  and  rate.  All  sodden  changes  of  motion 
should  Ix^  avoided,  and  a  fall  in  liable  to  bend  some  of  the  pivots 
and  seriously  change  the  rate.  The  position  in  which  it  ii* 
kept  also  makes  a  large  difference  in  its  rate,  especially  with 
the  uoadjuHtt*d  cheaj>er  types.  Both  the  watcli  and  the  clock 
should  best  l>e  kept  in  an  upright  position,  both  day  and  night, 
as  uniformity  of  practice  is  the  chief  essential.  All  tioicpieces 
should,  of  course,  be  kept  protected  from  du.st  and  dirt.  They 
should  l>e  wound  regularly.  It  is  perhaps  better  to  wind  a 
watch  twice  a  day  than  once  a  day>  if  it  is  done  regularly,  and 
the  last  part  of  the  winding  should  be  done  slowly  to  avoid  in- 
jury to  the  mechanism. 

An  alarm  clock. 

An  alarm  clock  may  he  made  very  useful  in  giving  a  warn* 
ing  of  the  necessity  of  inspecting  a  given  process  which  other- 
wise might  be  overlooked,  and  when  food  materials  are  fre- 
quently spoiled  in  preparation  from  lack  of  attention,  the  use 
of  an  alarm  clock  will  soon  save  its  cost. 

In  using  the  alarm  feature  of  an  alarm  clock,  the  setting 
mechanism  should  be  turned  in  one  direction  only,  for  the 
same  reason  as  in  the  case  of  setting  a  clock  with  striking  mech- 
anism to  correct  time,  to  avoid  locking  or  breaking  the  setting 
device.  Occasionally  the  indicating  hand  of  the  alarm  will 
not  Ix-  placed  correctly  on  its  pinion  and  the  alarm  will  sound 
at  a  different  time  from  tliat  expected.  This  error  will  be  a 
constant  one,  however,  and  its  amount  having  l>een  once 
leanie<l,  allowance  may  l>e  matle  for  it  in  setting  the  hand;  or 
a  watch  repairer  can  correct  the  fault  very  quickly.  Many 
alann  clocks  have  the  dial  for  setting  the  alarm  of  very  small 
diameter,  making  it  difficult  accurately  to  set  the  hand.  For 
this  use  it  is  desirable  to  secure  a  clock  with  as  large  an  alarm- 
hand  dial  as  possible^  preferably  one  having  the  alarm  hand 
set  on  the  central  pinion  with  the  hour  and  minute  hands. 
With  such  a  clock  the  alarm   can   be  set  quite  accurately 


J 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    143 


for  giving  a  signal  at  short  intervals  anti  can  \>e  used  to 
give  warnings  of  the  time  to  inspect  certain  processes  of  the 
kitchen,  for  the  taking  of  medicine  at  regular  intervals,  and  the 
like. 

BfEASUBING  GAS 

How  to  read  a  gas  meter. 

The  index  of  an  ordinary  gas  meter,  which  is  similar  to  that 
of  an  electric  or  a  water  meter,  h  shown  in  Fig.  41.    The  smal- 


CU5IC 


Flo.  41. — The  index  of  a  gas  meter.  Each  dial 
is  nitirked  with  tho  volume  of  gas  passed  a 
revolution.  The  amaller  top  diiil,  which  ia 
marked  ''Two  Fc*et**  itmide  of  the  circle,  \& 
gent?rally  ciillcii  the  "  testing  circle  '^  or  '*  prov* 
•  ing  hezid*'  and  is  used  principally  in  testing 

the  miter. 

ler  top  dialj  which  is  marked  **  Two  feet "  inside  of  the  circie,  is 
generally  called  the  '* testing  circle"  or  '* proving  head,"  and 
is  used  principtilly  in  testing  the  meter.  One  revolution  of 
the  hand  of  the  ie^sting  circle  indicates  that  2  cubic  feet  of  gas 
have  passed  through  the  meter*  In  some  meters  one  revolu- 
tion of  the  hand  of  the  testing  circle  represents  more  or  less 
than  2  cubic  feet  of  gas  and  the  testing  circles  are  correspond- 
ingly market!.  The  indication  of  the  hand  of  the  testing  circle 
is  ignored  in  the  ordinary  readincc  of  the  meter. 

Of  the  large  dials  the  first  one  at  the  right  is  usually  marked 
'*1  thousand/'  This  means  that  during  one  complete  revolu- 
tion of  the  hand,  1000  cubic  feet  of  gas  has  passecl  through  the 


I 


144  A  AfANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

meter.  This  dial  i^  divided  into  ten  equal  parts  so  that  the  pas- 
sage of  the  hand  over  each  part  indicates  the  passage  of  one- 
ten  ih  of  lOOO  cubic-  feet,  or  lOi)  cubic  feet.  For  most  meters, 
it  may  be  said  of  the  other  dials  that  the  complete  revolution 
of  each  hand  indicates  the  piissage  of  ten  times  as  niuch  gas  as 
one  revolution  of  the  hand  of  the  dial  of  next  lower  denomina- 
tion {usually  the  one  to  the  right).  The  fij^ure  representing 
the  numi)er  of  cubic  feet  discharged  during  one  revolution  of 
the  hand  is  written  over  e^ch  dial.    Thus  if  the  first  dial  is 


(T) 


CUDIC  (>)  petT 

13^ii^^  ol^iSti^rt  J^^^^^^^ 


Fio.  42. — Gas  meter  index  readiDR  79»500  cubic 
*  feet, 

marked  '*  1   thousand/*  the  second  dial  will  Ik>  marked  "  10 
thousand/*  the  third  *'  1(X)  thousand,"  and  so  on, 
The  reading  of  the  index,  as  illustrated  in  Fig,  41  is  as  follows: 

ReadiriR  of  *'l  thousand'*  dial. 204)  tnhit*  feet 

Rcaditig  of  **  10  thousand ' '  dial .  5  f)0O       **      " 

Heading  of  "  100  thousand''  dial  30  000      "      " 


Com  plot  e  reading  of  the  meter  ;i5  200      **      ** 

It  is  not  necessary  to  write  down  separately  the  reading  of 
each  dial,  but  it  is  much  sliorter  to  set  down  from  ri^ht  to  left 
the  figure  last  passed  by  the  hand  of  each  dial,  eomniencinpf 
w^ith  the  dial  of  lowest  denomination  and  then — if  the  dial  of 
lowest  denomination  is  marked  *' I  thousand'* ^appending 
two  zeros  to  the  resulting  figures. 

If  a  hand  is  very  nearly  over  one  of  the  figureis  on  a  dial  it 
is  impossible  to  tell  without  consulting  the  dial  of  next  lower 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE 


denomination  whether  the  figure  under  llie  hand  or  that  just 
previously  passed  by  the  hand  should  be  read.  For  example, 
in  Fip:,  42  the  hand  of  the  ''100  thousand'*  dial  is  over  S,  and 
considering  this  dial  alone  the  reading  might  l)e  taken  as  8;  but 
it  is  seen  that  the  reading  of  the  *'100  thoosarHr'  dial  cannot 
have  reached  8,  since  the  hand  of  the  dial  to  the  right  (the 
"10  thousand''  dial)  has  not  reached  zero.  The  reailing  of 
the  *'  100  thousand''  dial  is  therefore  7,  and  the  correct  reading 
of  the  entire  index  is  70  500  enbie  feet. 

To  satisfy  one's  self  that  tlie  gas  company  does  not  make 
a  mistake  in  reading  the  meter,  it  is  well  for  the  consumer,  oc- 
casionally at  leasts  to  read  his  meter  at  as  nearly  as  possible 
the  same  time  that  the  gas  company  reads  it.  Usually  the  gas 
company's  bill  will  state  the  meter  readings  on  the  dates  be- 
tween which  the  bill  applies,  so  that  checking  meter  readings 
will  be  easy.  If  the  meter  readings  are  not  given  on  the  bill,  the 
consumer  can  determine  what  the  amount  of  hLs  bill  should  be 
if  he  knows  the  meter  readings  and  the  price  of  gas  a  thousand 
cubic  feet.  Should  the  consumer  take  one  meter  reading  at 
the  proper  time  and  then  miss  the  next  one  or  two,  it  is  obvious 
that  he  can  still  cheek  up  the  gas  bills  by  taking  a  reading  at 
the  next  convenient  time  when  the  company's  reader  calls,  cal- 
culating the  cost  of  gas  used  between  the  dates  of  his  readings 
and  comparing  this  cost  with  the  sum  of  the  amounts  of  the 
bills  rendered  for  gas  between  the  same  dates. 

Cost  of  gas  conminied  an  hour  in  appliances. 

With  only  a  Uttle  trouble  one  can  determine  the  cost  an  hour 
of  operating  a  gas  light,  heater,  or  other  giis-consuming  ap- 
pliance. To  do  this,  one  should  have  in  ofjeration  the  appli- 
ance in  question  and  all  other  gas  appliances  supplied  through 
this  metier  shut  off.  Then,  by  observing  the  "testing  circle'* 
of  the  meter,  the  time  in  seconds  required  for  1,  2,  or  more 
cubic  feet  of  gas  to  pass  should  be  determined.  The  number 
of  cubic  feet  of  gas  used  an  liour  is  then  determined  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner:  (1)  Divide  the  numljer  of  cubic  feet  burned 
during  the  test  by  the  number  of  seconds,  thus  determining  the 


I 


146 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


number  of  cubic  feet  of  gas  used  a  second^  and  (2)  niiiltiply 
the  result  by  3600  {the  number  of  seconds  in  an  hour). 

Examph:  It  is  observed  that  with  a  fp%A  watcT-lu'riUT  in  operatioD,  the 
mcttT  indicates  the  paasagc  of  2  cubic  fcc't  of  ga^s  in  \  minute  and  40 seconds. 
Applying  the  above  rule,  2  (cubic  feet)  is  divided  by  100  (seconds)  (the 
equivalent  of  1  minute  and  40  seconda),  which  gives  jl^\  jfj  is  multiphed 
by  3600,  giving  Vrfif ,  or  T2.  The  water-heater  is,  therefore,  using  72  cubic 
feet  of  gtts  an  hour. 

Knowing  the  coat  of  1000  cubic  feet  of  gas,  one  can  easily  calculat'C  the 
CQist  an  hour  for  gas  uei.'^l  in  the  heater;  for  example,  if  gas  were  |1  for 
1000  cubic  feet,  the  72  cubic  feet  would  cost  72  times  yi^  of  $1,  or  7.2 
cents,  which  is  the  cost  an  hour  for  gas. 

Cansea  of  high  hills  for  gas. 

If  a  consumer's  gas  bill  for  a  certain  perioil  greatly  exc^ds 
that  of  the  previous  period,  it  b  due  to  one  or  more  of  the  fol- 
lowing causes: 

L  An  increased  consumption  of  gas.  A  careful  considera- 
tion of  the  use  made  of  gas  during  the  period  covered  by  the 
bill  will  very  often  reveal  the  fact  that  an  unusual  amount  of 
gas  has  1>een  consumed.  Bakings  ranuing  of  fruit,  entertain- 
ing, the  coming  of  long  winter  evenings,  and  the  like  aie  a 
common  cause  of  increased  gas  consumption  resulting  in 
larger  bills  than  usual  Leaks  in  the  gas  pipes  of  the  house 
may  produce  the-  same  i*esults. 

2.  An  error  of  the  gas  company  in  rearJing  the  meter  or  in 
office  work.  If  the  consumer  reads  his  own  meter  and  checks 
the  bill,  the  f|uestion  as  to  whether  tliis  cause  is  operative  can 
be  quickly  ascertained, 

3.  A  fa^t  meter.  If  the  two  above  causes  apparently  do 
not  exist,  the  consumer  will  naturally  consider  that  his  meter 
is  fast. 

The  best  procedure  for  the  consumer  who  thinks  his  meter 
incorrect  varies  with  tlie  locality.  Many  of  the  larger  cities 
are  provided  with  meter-inspection  departments,  under  the 
supervision  of  the  city  or  state,  and  the  consumer  can  have 
hifl  meter  tested  by  this  department.  If  his  meter  is  found  to 
be  fa^t  in  excess  of  the  established  tolerance,  the 


s  round  to       m 
I  company      I 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    147 


usually  pays  the  fee  for  the  test  and  refunds  to  the  consumer 
a  certain  amount,  depending  on  the  magnitude  of  the  error  of 
the  meter  and  the  probable  length  of  time  that  the  consumer 
has  been  thereby  overcharged.  If  the  meter  is  found  to  be 
within  the  tolerance^  or  '\slow/'*  the  consumer  usually  pays 
the  fee  (about  ^1),  and  may  have  to  pay  the  gas  company  for 
the  probable  amount  he  has  been  undercharged. 

MEASURIKQ  ELECTRICITY 

How  to  read  an  electric  meter, 

A  view  of  the  dials  of  a  modern  electric  meter  is  given  in 

Fig,  43.    The  method  of  reaifing  Is  similar  to  that  for  the  dials 


MLOWATT    MOUR5 

Pto.  43. — Dial  of  a  watthuur  meter.     In  this  dial  the  hands  are  eoirectiy 
set  OD  their  shafts.    The  reading  is  5llB4dlowatt  hours* 

of  a  gas  meter  as  exphiined  on  page  144.  The  reading  in  Fig,  43 
is  538  kilowatt  hours.  In  taking  down  these  figures  one  should 
re^  the  dials  from  right  to  left;  that  is^  in  the  reverse  of  the 
usual  order  of  writing  numbei-s.  The  pointer  on  the  dial  at 
the  extreme  right  points  to  8;  the  number  S  is  written  down  as 
the  figure  in  the  units  place-  The  index  of  the  next  dial  to  the 
left  has  passed  the  3,  but  has  not  reached  tlie  4,  as  shown  by 
the  fact  that  the  units'  dial  reads  8;  the  figure  3  is  accordingly 
written  in  the  tens^  place.  The  index  of  the  third  dial  has  passed 
the  5,  and  this  figure  is  to  l)e  written  in  llie  hundreds^  place, 
giving  538  kilowatt  hours  as  the  reading  of  the  meter,  since  the 
index  of  the  dial  at  the  extreme  left  has  not  reached  the  figure  1. 
If  the  index  hand  of  the  second  dial  in  Fig.  43  be  turned 
slightly  so  as  f  n  point  to,  or  even  sHghtly  past,  the  figure  4,  it 
becomes^  more  dilficult  to  read  the  meter  correctly,  bb  a  hasty 


I 


d 


148  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

iaspection  may  result  in  the  reading  l^eing  made  as  548  kilo- 
watt hours.  However,  the  index  of  the  units'  dial  standing  on 
the  figure  8  -sliows  that  it  has  not  quite  completed  a  revolution, 
and  honre  that  tlie  index  of  the  fsecond  dial  (if  it  is  properly 
set  on  its  shaft)  ssliould  I>e  rlo.se  to  a  ihvision  and  al>otit  to  reach 
it.  Hence,  it  should  be  reatl  lus  having  passetl  the  3  anil  nut 
having  reached  the  4,    A  view  of  a  meter  dial  face  having  the 


KILOWATT  MOUR5 

Flo.  44.— Dm!  of  u  wntthour  meter.  In  tfib  dial  the  Jiinid  on  tbi^  second 
rirrk*  from  ibv  riiilit  ts  tiUghtly  in  iidvarire  of  ha  proper  position  on 
its  t^hnfi.  The  rending  is  thcfuiitic  as  in  Fi^.  43,  niimely,  538  kilowatt 
hours,  although  at  u  glance  it  might  lie  iiicorrt'ttly  rcjuJ  oh  548  kilo- 
watt houra« 

Fserond  index  to  the  left  slightly  displaced  in  this  way  m  shown' 
in  Fig.  41. 

When  one  that  hand  jwints  to  9,  special  care  must  he  taken 
that  the  dial  hand  of  the  next  hip;her  dial  is  not  read  too  high, 
as  it  may  appear  to  have  reaehetl  the  next  nuoilxT»  but  will 
not  have  done  so  until  the  dial  hantl  at  9  has  come  it)  0.  A  sim- 
pie  illostratiou  will  make  1  his  clear.  If  the  hour  liand  of  a  rlock 
points  to  10,  as  closely  sm  can  be  read,  and  if  the  clock  had  no 
minute  handj  the  time  would  be  read  us  10  o'clock.  If  the  niin* 
ute  hand,  however,  is  pointing  to  the  figure  11,  the  time  Is 
read  as  9.55*  Ten  minutes  later  the  hour  lumd  may  not  have 
moved  perceptibly,  hot  the  time  is  now  read  as  10.05.  Sim- 
ilarly, in  the  electric  meter,  the  reading  of  each  dial  must  l>e 
interpreted  by  noting  the  reading  of  the  next  dial  to  the  right. 

The  dial  hands  on  adjacent  dials  revolve  in  opposite  direc- 
tions; therefore,  a  reading  .should  always  Ix^  checked  iifter  being- 
written  down,  as  it  is  easy  to  mistake  tlic  direction  of  rotation. 


I 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    149 

Checking  Oie  wailhour  meter. 

The  eler-tric  mvAar  may  be  checked  approximately  by  the 
hotLsehoIdtT  witiiout  the  use  of  electrical  instrument's.  For  this 
purpose  it  is  only  necessary  to  note  the  reading  of  the  meter, 
then  turn  on  a  number  of  lamps  azid  note  ilie  time  in  hours  re- 
quired to  cause  the  index  of  the  dial  farthest  to  the  right  to  ad- 
vance one  division.  It  Is  necessary  to  use  lamps  which  are  rated 
in  watts,  as  is  done  with  most  incandescent  lamps  now  made. 
If  the  meter  is  niotlern,  it  will  have  a  dial  marked  "kilowatt 
hours,"  and  one  division  on  the  dial  farthest  to  tlie  right  is 
a  kilowatt  hour,  which  means  1000  watt  hours.  For  example,  if 
10  lamps,  each  marked  25  w^atts,  are  lighted  at  a  given  time, 
the  rate  of  using  electrical  energy  is  10x25  =250  watts.  In  4 
hours  these  lamps  will  use  4x250=11300  watt  hours,  and  this 
should  cause  the  index  of  the  dial  farthest  to  the  right  to  ad- 
vance one  division.  As  it  is  not  possible  to  read  a  single  (;h\ision 
aecuratel3^  the  lamps  may  Ix*  allowed  to  run  until  the  index  has 
moved  over  several  divisions.  If  more  lam|)s  can  be  turned  on, 
or  larger  lamps  used,  the  time  required  for  the  test  will  be  re- 
duced. 

The  preceding  test  is  approximate  but  will  settle  the  question 
of  whether  any  large  error  exists  in  the  meter.  To  make  an  ac- 
curate test  requires  portable  watt  hour  meters  or  other  electrical 
apparatus  which  is  suitable  for  use  only  Ijy  uieter  inspectors. 

It  is  desirable  for  the  housetiolder  to  read  the  aieter  at  the 
time  it  is  read  l)y  the  meter  man,  and  to  keep  a  record  of  the 
readings  and  the  dates,  in  order  to  have  the  means  of  checking 
the  bill  rendered  l>y  the  company. 

When  the  bill  for  electric  current  seems  unduly  high,  the  meter 
is  often  first  suspected;  in  reality"  it  is  usuall^^  the/last  thing  to 
blame.    Some  of  the  reasons  for  higher  bills  are  as  follows: 

1.  Cloudy  or  rainy  weather,  requiring  use  of  light  in  daylight 
hours. 

2*  Additional  lamps  may  have  been  installed,  or  small  lamps 
may  have  been  replaced  by  larger  ones. 

3,  Old  dim  lamps  may  be  in  use;  in  order  to  secure  sufficient 
iMiunination  more  of  them  must  be  lighted  than  would  be  nee- 


150 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


L 


essary  if  lamps  in  good  rontlition  were  iisetl.  A  dim  lamp 
takes  practically  as  much  current  as  a  new  one,  and  m  very 
wasteful  to  use.  Willi  lamps  in  gtx^d  condition,  the  light  will 
not  be  efhciently  produced  if  the  electric  company  allows  the  vol- 
tage to  he  low.  Ill  thi.s  connect  ion  if  may  Ijc  well  to  state  that 
the  tungsten  lamp  has  been  improved  in  quality  and  reduced  in 
price  to  such  an  extent  that  no  customer  can  afford  to  use  carbon 
lamps.  Many  hous(4ioIdei*s  cling  to  the  use  of  carbon  lami>3 
because  they  are  usually  supplied  frc^.  The  folly  of  this  course 
may  be  realized  from  the  following  statement:  The  cost  of  a 
lamp  is  reckoned  in  cents,  but  the  cost  of  the  energy  t^  operate 
it  during  its  life  is  a  matter  of  dollars.  The  energy  cost  for  a 
tungsten  lamp  is  only  about  one-third  tliat  of  the  carbon  lamp, 

4.  Lamps  are  sometimes  loft  burning  for  days  in  attics, 
closets,  and  other  out-of-the-way  places. 

5.  Electric  laundry  irons,  toasters,  or  other  heating  devica*? 
may  have  been  placed  in  service  or  us<h1  more  than  in  former 
months.  Motor-tlriven  devices  may  have  been  installed.  Many 
devices  which  are  operated  through  Hexilile  corti  from  a  lamp 
socket  take  very  much  more  power  than  any  lamp  which  would 
be  used  in  the  household.  If  is  often  erroneously  believed  that 
because  sucli  devices  can  t>e  operateii  from  a  socket  they  require 
no  more  power  tlian  a  lamp.  The  extent  of  this  error  may  lie 
realized  from  the  statement  that  a  six-pound  laundry  iron  takes 
as  much  i>ower  as  twenty  tungsten  lamps  of  about  20  candle* 
power  each. 

6.  Defective  wiring  may  allow  current  to  flow  when  no  lights 
or  other  devices  are  in  use, 

?•  When  electric  elevators  or  electrically  driven  machinery  13 
used  and  not  properly  oiled  and  cared  for»  excessive  friction 
may  result,  with  a  correspondiog  waste  of  power  and  increase 
in  the  bill  for  electric  current, 

8.  An  error  may  be  made  by  the  conipany's  meter  reader,  so 
that  the  bill  rendered  is  too  high  or  too  low\  If  it  is  too  high,  the 
bill  for  the  following  month  will  be  low  by  the  same  amount,  if 
the  meter  is  then  read  correctly,  so  that  the  consumer  will  not 
usually  lose  anything  in  the  end.    When  a  minimum  monthly 


I 
I 


I 


I 
I 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    15 1 

charge  h  matle  by  the  company,  the  consumer  may  losf\  Hence, 
if  an  error  has  apparently  been  matie  by  the  meter  reader,  the 
company  should  be  reiiucstcd  to  investigate  the  matter  aod  to 
render  a  corrected  bill  if  an  error  is  found* 

MEIABURING   WATER 

Hou^  to  read  a  water  jnekr. 

Meters  for  measuring  water  for  domestic  use  are  usually 

graduated  in  cubic  feet — sometimes  in  gallons.    One  cubic  foot 


Pio.  45. — OpdiDftrj"^  form  of  water-meter  dJal.    Reading 
lt,hti7  cubic  feet. 

is  taken  commercially  as  equal  to  7)^  gallons.  Hence,  to  re- 
duce a  meter  reading  in  cu1>ic  feet  to  gallons,  the  number  of 
cubic  feet  should  l>e  multiplieil  by  7J^. 

The  ordinary  form  of  dial  is  shown  in  Fig.  45.  A  special  form 
of  register  which  if^  more  convenient  to  read,  is  known  as  a 
straight-line  register  and  gives  cubic  feet  or  gallons  directly. 


^ 


152 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


In  Fig.  45  the  unit  is  cubic  feet  and  is  plainly  marked  on  the  dial. 

If  the  unit  were  gallons,  the  method  of  reading  would  l>e  the 
same.  I'he  hands  revolve  around  circles,  each  divided  into  ten 
numbered  divisions.  The  numl»er  on  the  outside  of  each  circle  ■ 
indicates  I  lie  ninnl>er  of  cubic  feet  for  one  complete  revolution 
of  tlic  hand.  The  divisions  of  the  circles  are  numbered  alter- 
natcly  in  Ihe  counter  clockwise  and  clockwise  direction.  Thus, 
the  fii*st  dial  fat  the  bottom)  is  markeil  10  and  one  division  _ 
measures  1  cubic  foot,  the  second  KM)  and  one  division  measures  fl 
10  culiic  feet,  the  next  is  marked  1000  anil  one  division  measures 
100  cubic  feet,  and  similarly  for  the  remainder.  The  small  dial 
at  the  left  measuring  1  cubic  foot  for  a  complete  revolution  is 
disregarded  in  reading  the  meter,  being  used  for  test  purposes. 
One  division  of  a  circle  is  equal  to  a  complete  revolution  of  the 
hand  on  the  next  lower  circle.  When  a  hand  is  between  two 
figures,  the  lesser  is  to  be  taken.  If  a  hand  is  very  near  a  figure, 
whether  that  figure  or  the  next  lower  is  to  l>e  taken  can  be  de- 
termined by  observing  the  liand  in  the  next  lower  circle.  Unless 
the  hand  on  this  circle  has  reached  or  just  passtKl  0,  the  lesser  fig- 
ure is  to  l>e  taken.  The  best  oielhod  of  reading  is  from  low  to 
high,  that  is,  from  right  to  left.  For  example,  reading  the  dial 
shown  in  Fig,  45  and  setting  down  the  figure^s  successively  from  m 
right  to  left»  there  are  7  for  units'  place,  6  for  tens*  place,  8  for 
huTHJreds'  place,  and  1  for  thousands*  place  and  for  ten- 
thousands'  place,  or  11,807  cubic  ftn^t. 

The  circles  on  ditTcrent  makes  of  dials  may  be  differently  lo- 
catetl  on  the  dial,  but  the  method  of  reatling  is  the  same  as  given. 

In  meters  larger  than  those  ordinarily  used  for  household 
measurement,  the  lowest  graduate<l  circle,  the  one  marked  10, 
corresponding  to  units'  place  in  the  reading,  is  sometimes  omit- 
ted, the  lowest  circle  ijeing  tlien  the  one  marked  100.  In  this 
case  the  meter  is  read  exactly  as  described  above,  and  a  zero 
added  in  the  units'  place. 

The  dial  after  reading  cannot  be  set  back  to  zero.  The  record 
is  continuous.  The  amount  of  w^ater  which  has  passed  through 
the  meter  in  a  given  time  is,  therefore,  obtained  by  subtracting 
the  first  reading  from  the  last*    For  example,  if  the  meter  were 


I 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    153 

read  the  30th  day  of  June  and  again  the  30bh  day  of  July,  the 
June  reading  is  to  be  subtracted  from  that  taken  in  July. 

Using  the  water  meter  as  a  measuring  appliance. 

The  amount  of  wattT  required  for  a  particular  use — for  ex- 
amplci  in  wateriiip;  a  lawn — may  be  determined  by  first  turning 
off  all  other  outlets  and  allowing  tlie  hose  to  run,  readinp;  the 
meter  at  the  bot!;inning  anrl  end  of  the  period  and  subtraciing 
the  first  reading  from  the  second. 

Since  the  meter  can  only  register  when  water  is  passing 
through,  should  the  hands  move  wlien  all  outlets  are  closed, 
water  is  l>einR  wasted  tbrough  some  leak.  This  can  be  most 
easily  detected  by  oliserving  the  cirele  marked  **one  foot/*  re- 
ferred to  above  as  being  provided  for  purposes  of  test. 

DENSITY   OP   LIQUIDS 

A  knowicdge  of  the  density  or  specific  gravity  of  a  liquid  is 
usually  of  vahie  in  the  household  only  as  an  index  of  some  other 
physical  property  or  quality  of  the  liquid.  For  example,  in  the 
preparation  of  sirups,  jellies,  and  other  food  products  of  similar 
nature^  a  measurement  of  specific  gravity  is  a  eonveiiicnt  means 
of  determining  when  the  process  of  evaporation  or  **  boiling 
down'*  has  been  carried  far  enough.  Also,  the  quality  or  fat- 
content  of  milk  may  be  detennined  by  measuring  its  specific 
gravity. 

Specific  gravity  is  the  ratio  of  the  weight  of  any  volume  of  a 
substance  to  the  weight  of  an  equal  volume  of  w^atcr.  Milk  has 
a  specific  gravity  of  1.03,  since  the  weight  of  any  volume  of 
milk  is  3  per  cent  more  than  that  of  an  equal  volume  of  water. 
The  densities  given  in  Table  IV  are  stated  in  grams  to  the  cubic 
centimeter,  and  are  numerically  the  same  as  specific  gravity  in 
terms  of  water  at  4°  C.  as  unity. 

Determination  of  speeific  grainty. 

The  specific  gravity  of  a  hquitl  may  be  most  readily  deter- 
mined l)y  means  of  a  small  glass  instrument  known  as  the  hy- 
drometer. This  instrument  floats  in  the  liquid  to  be  examined 
and  the  specific  gravity  of  the  liquid  is  determined  by  noting  the 


154 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


point  on  the  stem  to  which  the  instrument  sinks  in  the  liquid. ! 
Since  a  floating  body  ^^i^k8  in  a  liquid  to  such  a  point  that  the 
weight  of  the  liquid  displaced  by  the  body  is  equal  to  the  weight 
of  the  body,  the  hydrometer,  when  provided  with  a  suitable 
8cale»  indicates  directly  the  specific  giavity  of  the  liquid. 

Classes  of  hydrometers, 

Hydrometei-s  in  general  use  may  be  divided  into  three  claasea 
with  reference  to  their  indication:  1.  Specific  gravity  hydrom-* 
eters;  2.  per  cent  hydrometers;  3.  arbitrary'  scale  hydrometers. 

Specific  gravity  hydrometers  indicate  the  ratio  of  the  weight 
of  a  given  volume  of  the  substance  to  the  weight  of  the  same  vol- 
ume of  some  standaici  substance.  The  standard  sii  Instance  is 
umjally  water  at  a  tiefiuite  temperatute. 

Per  cent  hydroiiiefcrs  indicate  the  percentage  of  a  substance, 
either  by  weight,  or  Ijv  vohitne,  in  a  mixture  or  solution  of  the 
substance  in  water. 

Arbitrary  scale  h^Tlrometers  indicate  the  concentration  or 
strength  of  a  substance  in  tenns  of  some  arbitrarily  defined  scale. 
Lactometers  and  Baum^5  hydrometers  are  examples  of  this  class. 

TABLE  IV. — DENfliTiEs  op  Somk  Household  Materials 


I 


Sub$iance 


Air,  dry . 

Air  (of  50  per  cfint  humidity) 

Brine  (5  parts  by  weight  of  salt  m  100  parts  of 

of  brine)  ......,* _  . .  _  , 

Brinr-  {25  parts  by  weight  of  salt  in  100  part? 

brine) 

Butter 

CiiJfT  vinegar 

Cream  *  (18  per  cent  butter  fat) 
Cream  (40  per  cent  butter  fat) 
riasnliiio 


Tempera- 
ture in 
degrees 

centigrade 


20  m* 


20 
15 
15 


20 
20 
20 


Denjfity  in        h 
Qrams  U^  the      H 

o.ooiaoifl 


o.ooi: 
o.oouds 

1.035 

1.191 

0  86    to    0,87 

1  0!3  to  1,015 

1  01 

0  99 

n  70  to  0,74 


*  Minimum  buttx^fat  content  for  cream  (defitiition  of  Bureau 
ietry). 


hoVSEHOLb  ^tSASVRE^fENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    155 


TABLE  IV.— Coii/inuerf 


Tevipera- 

Deji&ity  in 

ture  in 

grams  to  the 

Sid)ntame 

degrees 

cubic  centv-  | 

cenligrade 

nuUer        ^ 

Ice         , 

0,92 

Kerosc'tic.  .  . 

2(1 

0  78  to  0.82 

Lard..... 

0,92 

Linseed  oil . 

20 

0,92  to  0,93 

Milk 

20 

1.028  to  1.032 

Olive  oil 

20 

0  91 

Sea  water . 

15 

1  023  to  1.025 

Sirup,  maplt* 

17.5 

1  32    to    1.34 

Tiillow. 

0.91    to    0.97 

TurpentiDe . 

20 

0  86    to    0.87 

*  The  deneity  of  maple  sirup  varies  from  L32  with  35  per  cent  of  writer 
to  1.34  with  32  per  cent  of  A'ater. 

The  hydrometer  to  be  chosen  for  household  use  will  depend 
on  the  purpose  for  w^hich  it  is  intended,  the  degree  of  accuracy 
required,  and  to  some  extent  on  the  personal  preference  of  the 
user.  The  specific  gravity  hydrometer  is  recommended  for 
most  purposes. 

For  use  in  making  simps,  preserves,  and  the  like,  an  instru- 
ment indicating  specific  gravity  in  tenns  of  water  at  60°  F.,  or 
one  reading  in  Baom^  degrees  will  lie  fo«nd  convenient.  The 
hydrometer  should  have  a  range  of  about  1.00  to  1.50  in  specific 
gravity  or  1  to  50  in  Baum^  degrees,  and  should  be  so  graduated 
that  the  readings  can  be  conveniently  made. 

Use  of  the  kijdromeier. 

In  using  the  hydrometer,  a  portion  of  the  liquid  whose  specific 
gravity  is  to  be  measured  should  be  placed  in  a  glass  cylinder  of 
such  a  size  that  the  hydrometer  when  placed  in  the  cylinder  will 
be  free  to  move  up  and  down  without  coming  in  contact  with  the 
walls  of  the  vessel. 

The  liquid  should  be  well  stirred.  For  specially  accurate 
work,  the  temperature  of  the  liquid  should  be  observ^ed  by  means 
of  a  thermometer  placed  directly  io  the  hquid ;  when  the  temper- 


mm 


J 


ise 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


4 


ature  has  become  fairly  constant,  the  readnigs  on  the  hydrom- 
eter may  be  taken. 

The  eye  should  be  placed  on  a  level  with  the  surface  of  the 
liquid  and  the  line  where  this  surface  appears  to  cut  the  stem 
of  the  hydrometer  should  1x3  taken  a-s  the  i-eading  of  the  hy- 
drometer. 

In  ca*se  the  liquid  is  not  sufficiently  transparent  to  allow  the 
scale  of  file  hydrometer  to  i>e  read  through  tlie  liquid,  the  read- 
ing cannot  be  made  as  indicated  almve.  It  is  then  necessary 
to  read  as  accurately  as  possible  a!>ove  the  surface  of  the  liquid. 
If  the  readiop:8  in  a  dark-colored  liquid  are  always  marie  in  the 
same  way,  the  resulting  error  will  not  be  great,  and  successive 
readings  will  be  comparable. 

Influence  of  tempe}'Qture. 

When  the  temperature  of  a  liquid  changes^  its  specific  gravity 
also  changes  and  the  indication  of  a  hydrometer  in  the  liquid  will, 
therefore,  differ  at  different  temf^erat  ures.  All  hydrometers 
should  \m  marked  with  the  temperature  at  wiiich  they  are 
intended  to  lie  correct. 

In  actual  practice,  however,  it  is  not  always  necessary  that 
the  hydrometer  be  used  at  its  standard  temperature,  but  if 
readings  are  to  be  compared,  they  must  all  Ije  made  at  the  same 
temperature.  For  example,  it  may  be  found  by  exiwrience  that 
a  certain  sirup  has  the  proper  consistency  wlien  cool,  if  the  read- 
ing on  the  hydrometer  is  1 .36  at  WP  F.  The  standaril  tempera* 
ture  of  the  instrument  may  be  GO^  F.,  but  if  experience  has 
shown  that  a  certain  reading  of  the  hydrometer  at  some  other 
temperature  gives  satisfactory  results,  it  is  not  necessary  to 
wait  for  the  liquid  to  cool  to  the  standard  temperature  of  the 
instrument. 

KITCHEN  MEAStHES 

In  the  kitchen  more  accurate  weights  and  measures  are  grad- 
ually coming  into  common  use,  as  the  units  used  are  becoming 
better  defined*  Domestic  science  department's  of  schools  and 
colleges  are  krgely  resporusible  for  this  advance. 


I 


I 
I 


I 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    157 

The  basis  of  the  kitchen  system  of  weights  and  measures  is 
the  standard  cup,  a  measure  holding  8  fluid  ounces — ^that  is, 
one-half  liquid  pint — ^and  used  to  measure  either  dry  or  liquid 
commodities.  One  of  these  cups,  subdivided  into  thirds,  fourths, 
or  both,  should  be  procured,  since  the  ordinary  china  cups  vary 
greatly  in  size.  A  special  set  of  spoon  measures  (from  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  up)  will  be  found  convenient,  since  ordinary 
spoons  also  vary  in  size.  Moreover,  neither  the  ordinary  cup  or 
spoon  is  adapted  to  measuring  of  fractions  of  their  capacity. 

The  measures  of  capacity  used  in  the  kitchen  are  based  on 
the  standard  cup,  as  follows: 

3  tcaspoonfuls      =    1  tablespoonful  =  4  drams 

4  tablespoonf uls  =  14  cupful  =  2  fluid  ounces 


J^  cupful 

=    1  gill  =  4  fluid  ounces 

2  gills 

=    1  cupful  =  8  fluid  ounces 

1  cupful 

=    8  fluid  ounces  =  H  pint 

2  cupfuls 

=  16  fluid  ounces  =  1  pint 

16  fluid  ounces 

=    1  pint 

4  cupfuls 

=    1  quart 

In  the  above  all  measures  are  level  full.  The  equivalents 
given  will  permit  the  use  of  the  large  glass  graduate  for  measur- 
ing liquids  in  cooking. 

In  Tables  V  to  VIII  are  given  equivalents  of  units  commonly 
used  in  cooking  and  for  other  household  purposes. 


158 


A  MANUAL  OF  UOME-MAKING 


'If  ^•He-TJ-c^ 

S:5^  3=  &=  ^  6 
,  «^  ^  4J     ^  t ^  ^  _ 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    159 


TABLE  VI  —Equivalent  Weights  and  Measures  op  Certain  Foods  * 


Fooil 


Beverages: 

Chocolate 

Cocoa 

Coffee 

Tea 

Water.. 

Bread  stuffs: 

Bread,  whit^ 

Bread  crumbs  .... 

Crackers,  graham  . 

Crackers,  oystpr  .  . 

Crackers,  soda ... 

Saltines. 

Cereals: 

Barley,  pearl 

Corn-meal,  granu- 
lated   

Corn-starch 

Flour,  graham.  ,  ,  , 

Flour,  entire  wheat 

Flour,  white 

Hominy,  or  samp  . 

Hominy  grits .  .  ,  .  . 

Macaroni 

Oatmeal 

Oats,  rolled 

Rice .  ,  . . , 

Whole  wheat 

Dairy  products: 

Cheese     ( Ameri  can  1 
A.  P , 

Cream,  40% 

Milk 

Eggs  (whole)  A.  P.*. 
Fats: 

Butter 

Lard 


Measure  af  t  pouiid 

Measure  of  1  ounce 

5  1/3  cups^  grated 

1    square    or    1/3    cup, 

grated 

4  cups 

H  cup 

5  1/3  cups 

5  1/3  tablespoons 

6M  cups                           ' 

6^^  tabJespoons            | 

2  cups 

2  tablespoons                 ^ 

16  slices,  }4  inch  thick  , 

1  slice,  H  inch  thick 

4  cups 

Kcup 

57  crackers 

3H  crackers 

9  2/3  cups 

2/3  cup 

49  crackers 

3+  crackers 

124  crackers 

7  crackers 

2  1/8  cups 

2  tiiblespoons 

2Kcupa 

2^  tablespoons 

3  cups 

3  tablespoons 

4  cups 

Kcup 

AM  cups 

1/3  cup 

4  cups 

}<cup 

2?Scupa 

2H  tablespoons 

2^-f  cups 

2i4+  tablespoons 

4^^i  cups 

K+eup 

3+  cups 

3-h  tablespoons 

51^2  cups 

hM  tablespoons 

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

2  1/3  cups 

2  1/3  tablespoons 

4  cups  grated 

Ji  oitp  grated               1 

2  cups 

2  tableapoons 

2  cupa 

2  tabieapoona                \ 

9 

Hegg 

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

2    cups    and    2    table- 

spoons 

2+  tablespoons 

*  A.  P,  nic^ns  as  purchased;  E.  P,  means  edible  portion. 


160 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 
TABLE  VI.— CoiXtniied 


Pood 

Measure  of  1  pound 

Measure  of  1  ounce 

Crisco 

2    cups    and    2    table- 
spoons 

0 

2  tablespoons 

Oil,  olive 

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

Oil,  Weason 

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

Suet,  beef 

4  cups.  flTOund 

Ji  cup 

Fruits,  dried: 

Apples,  A.  P 

7  cups 

2/5  cup 

Apricots 

50  halves 

4  halves 

Currants,  A.  P 

3}^  cups 

Jicup 

Dates,  A.  P 

68 

4Ji 

Figs 

24 

1J4 

Prunes  , 

40  to  60 
3  cups 

3to4 

Rftisinff 

3    tablespoons    or    18 

raisins 

Fruits,  fresh: 

Apples,  A.  P 

3  apples,  or  4  cups 

Ji   apple,   or   1/3   cup 

diced 

diced 

Bananas,  A.  P 

3  medium  bananas 

1/6  (scant)  banana 

Cranberries 

4Hcups 

1/3  cup 

Grapes,  maliiRa .... 

120  grapes 

714  grapes 

Grapefruit 

1 

Lemon  juice 

1  1/3  to  2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

2to3 

Gelatin 

334  cups 

3H  tablespoons 

Meat: 

Bacon,  A.  P 

30  slices 

2  slices 

Bacon,  E.  P 

40  slices 

2J4  slices 

Nuts: 

Almonds,  A.  P 

6  cups  or  254  nuts 

2/5  cup  or  16  nuts 

Almonds,  E.  P 

3+  cups  or  385  nuts 

1/5  cup  or  24  nuts 

Peanuts,  A.  P 

6  cups  or  220  nuts 

34  cup  or  15  nuts 

Peanuts,  E.  P 

2  1/8  cups 

1/8  cup  or  40  nuts 

Peanuts,  butter .... 

iHcupp 

1  \^  tablespoons 

Walnuts,  A.  P 

5H  cups  or  56  nuts 

3J4nuts 

Walnuts,  E.  P 

4-f  cups  or  240  average 

meats 

15  halves  or  J^  cup 

Sugars: 

Molasses 

1  3/5  cups 

1}^  table8pK)ons 

Sugar,  granulated. . . 

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

Sugar,  powdered .  .  . 

3  cups 

3  tablespoons 

Sugar,  brown 

3  cups 

3  tables()oons 

HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE 


TABLE  Vl.—Cmlinuett 


Food 

Measure  of  1  pound 

Measure  of  1  ounce 

Tapioca,  pearl    ...... 

2H  cups 

1/8+  cup 

Minute 

2K  cups 

2^  tablespoons 

Vegetabk's,  dried : 

Beanj?,  navy,  A.  P. . 

2+  cups 

2  tablespoons,  or  1/8  cup 

Beans,  lima 

2  1/3  cups 

2+  tablespoons  or  1/8 -f- 
cup 

lentils,  A.  F. 

2  l/5cupa 

2+  tablespoons              1 

Vegetables,  frt^h: 

^ 

Beets.  A,  P 

2  medium  Un^ts 

1/8  l>eet                     ^1 

Cabbage,  A.  P 

1/3  to  3^^  medium  head 

n 

or  5H  cui>s  shredded 

H  cup  shredded 

Carrots,  A.  P 

5H  t^arroU 

1/3  carrot                   ^J 

Celery,  A.  P 

4  byiiches 

1  gtalk                       ^B 

Onions,  A.  P.    . . 

6  to  8  medium 

3/2  medium                  ^* 

Parsnips,  A.  P,  .  .  . 

6  medium 

1/3  parsnip 

Potatoes,  A.  P,  .  . . 

2%  medium 

2J^  tablespoons,  dried 

PoUtoes,  sweet, 

A.  P 

3  medium 

1/5  potato 

Water. 

2  cup3 

2  table*tp<jon9 

I 


TABLE  Vn. — Approximate  Measure  of  t  Ounce  or  Certain  Spices, 
Leaveninq  Agents,  and  Flavoiung  SuBrtTANCEs  (Mary  F.  Henry) 


Substarice 


Mmswe  of  1  ounce 


Alkpice  (whole) .  . 
AUspice  (ground) 
Baking  powder 
Celery  seed ... 
Cinnamon. 
Cloves  (whnlr-) 
Cloves  (grountl) 
Cream  of  tjirtar 
Mustard  see<i    . 
Mustard.  .  . 
Pepper  (whole)    . 
Pepper  (ground) 
Salt. 
Soda 
Vanilla         . .    , 


^cup 

H  cup 

3  tablespoons 

'Mi  tiiblr^poona 

Z%  tablespoons     | 

4+  tablespoons 

3%  tablespoons 

3  tables poong 
2H  tablespoons 

4  5/8  tablespoons 
4  tablespoons 

4  1/3  tabiespoona 

1  '^t'  tablespoons 
J  ^  2  tablespoons 

2  lablespoons 


162 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-AfAKlNO 


I 


m 

i 

o 

£ 


i 

o 


< 


ntom  JO 

:  :  :  :3  SSS  :  :     :SSS 

'a 

:]  : 

■8  : :  :    : 

,—  .-^ 

^    Sgg  ^  ^   S   !!5S  ? 

p*M  dut*!^ 

:   '  ': 

;  :   ?  ,5?;   s?5  ;  ;   ?   5S?   3 

ip*MUtJ} 

?i:« 

i     :^ 

:  :   S  :S8 

.   888  ;  :  838  :8   S 

M4^mrL>nj 

.  .     . ,  -« 

:    $: 

• ; : : :  « 

t^LLO<(UVJJ 

: :     :  i   "S     i  : 

:aSg       : 

||WM    HfttJOJ 

■^i 

■     :5 

.  :S   S  ;   S  :     :  : 

K  in»m  ujoj 

$..? 

:   3*5  :?   S  :  :«?   5  ;S?   S  tSSg  ;;   8 

tijoj  ptjfi^s    1 

;S  :S 

■  :8   8  :8SS    SSS  :  .    SSsSSS   S 
:  :          :                     :  .      t 

tUJOj 

?   5: 

; ;  i  i  i ; : :  ?  ; :««  ; : ; ; ;  : 

p^nJMOJJ 

; :  ;s 

:  ss 

.  ;.    g  :ggg    ggg  :  :   igigS   3 

m^oj 

:     ;8 

;  :     :  ;Sg  :   SS  :  ;S5  S2  :3  :   S 

ii»Y«!r->»»tf    ^  :  :^^    ^* 

:    S  :SS8   SSS  :?   5$$S$   S 

pMi  ntu3-*niQ 

:  1  !* 

■^    . 

^    '^^^      v^w    ■          ^      ■^■^fw     ■* 

WI*Jff 

:  ;! 

;  :     .  :SS  .   88  :  .g      g    8  :     • 

t»«wff    1 

:SSS 

:    gS 

g   g  :gg8   ggg    g   ggggS   S 

/r^/joff 

?!;5$S   5$ 

$    :;«*x^    ^Sf:;¥3£    52g$$^    Sg 

njdtttf  pjtiQ 

:3   S 

;     .S 

s;  ;;  :;5«^  5;;:^  :  ;  s^?JiSS  s 

,  w^WK 

:      55 

:     :5 

:^      :  ;^g 

.   5^ 

lllli 

III 

fit*,   oac^sJ 

iiJl 

: ;  :  :    h 

•     *     t     ■            4. 

: : : :  t!^ 
::::  1' 

!ii 

HOUSEHOLD  MEASVUEMKNTS  AND  THEIR  USE 


163 


ggST^ 


S 


z    zz 


S^ifso      tQ ^ ti:)  tiT) u;      »Cii^ 


S5S??S 


£§SS 


:S 


S37g 


«s«s  ■* 


S  :   Sg   S?g' 


S   S 


^   S 


S 


S^   $ 


tgg  gs?:g 


s? 


J>    Ss   '«S     ^ 


SSSS   SSS38   SSSi   S   iS   S 


S.^33   ^§g 


iO>Q    -ira      vS     'iIliuS 


ci  =  c  30      Q  C'i  0*;.  e  CI      o  e^  csi  ao     »    ■  w  Q 


SSs^S    oS 


9     a  = 


c     -40 


QQaoaeoe     QOooa6«qe     acx'^i^     ac     or; 'j?     «: 


Qaeoe     oooO" 


'esil^cl     ff*«ei 


^s? 


SSi 


«j;.  3      eo  S  I? 


QCCM       MM 


MM  Q 


^   15^^ 


o  e  «  « 


.B5 


O  O  e  O  Q       JSM 


S     _ 


111 

^  o  c  ^      (L'  ^  V'!: 


.'I 


Ills 


i]"3   .     O   ^ 


;b« 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    165 


^S*  W  '^  ^^  '^  ^7  C'  V  v"  €*  ^r  C>  ^?  i^ 


^iqtS  *4 


S3§g 


SsS    SiD  •»    s 


io«r     S     S 


*c§ 


iS^    3j 


to  ^  M3  lO      iCO  f^  lO  ^       to  tiO       w?       *0       k^l  *0       *0 


SSSo     SSK«S     uaSawSs     S 


S^S    ^^iS^lfl    ^*Q   '4^    iS 


SS^g  SiSiS   SiiS   3 


ggiS    SSSiS    S8  .2   2 


.3S   ^ 


PO  -gC  *   Q  * 


S8S:^  :^ 


^ 


S   S 


ISSStSSI    IS^SKSi    Sslo  ^    g 


g  s 


£«  C^  n  «     o  c»  C"!  C4  c'i 

TO  W  rt  to       Ci  »•!  W  OO  P3 


iS 


Uti      '  klS  lH        ^  to     '  14       u3 


i«55 


?§ 


Si 


Si8 


SI 


S£g    g 


^S 


IT 


WW       09 


Sg       g 


§s    sSS 


SI  : 


5§ 


ss     ^ 


IS^ 


gg 


t 


«»  V  O  O  o 


£  D  S'  c 


3^_ 

M    *}    J-    ^ 


^^1 


*    « 

It  11 


lid  III  ll 

e  °1  ^  e  5  S  o  a  3A 


o  o  p  **^  O  o  C  < 


166 


.1   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLES  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


ApothecaritJi*  Ftuul  iVm4ltr«,' 


ApolkecarUt*  Weight: 


Awairdupou  Wri^Kt: 

2711  cnuDt 

16cniiic«a 
25  pcHimli 
38  pound* 


00  tnjnimw  «  1  fluid  dniin 

H  fluid  drama    <=  1  fluid  ounce 

Iti  fluid  ouDces  ~  1  liauid  pint 
8  Liquid  piaU   *  1  gvlbii 

(Bfitiah  measuresfl  differ  trom  abovi) 


20  craiiui 
3  Mcruple* 
B  dmnui 

11  o  usees 


-  1  Acraple 
=-  1  drmin 
B  1  ounce 
»  1  pound 


~  1  ilr&m 

=5  t  ounce 

»  1  pound 

m  1  4bon  quarter 

—  1  long  quarter 

-ibu»d»j«irf,t{g?«li:;;j2jS}-i«j;» 


CSreutar  Mmnm: 


Otbie  Mmtnn: 


4  i]tiarter» 

OA  t...n,i.«i»«i»k«    _  I  »««   f  short  ton  «  3()bQ  (xiufids 
20  hundrediretf  bt  '^^^  \u,^u,a    -  ZMO  pounds 


100  pounda 
112  pound* 


60aecond« 
60  miautea 
00  degrees 
4  quidranta 

172^ 


»  1  mtaute 

—  I  di^gree 

"  I  quJMdrmot 

-  1  circle  or  clrcumfereace 


14}        ■ 

1231  cubic  tiHit 


"  1  cubi<?  foot 
=  1  Pubic  yanl 
<■  1  board  fool 
»  I  cord 


Dry  Meotir*: 

2  pinti  —  I  quart 
8  quart*  -  1  peck 
4  peckA    =•  I  buAht'l 

1  barrel  ffor  truit.  vcsetabU-s,  and  otl*er  dry  commoditie*) 
105  dry  quart* 
KUcken  mtaturrMr    See  pAigefl  157  and  15S 
Lintar  MecMure: 

12  int'Hca      »  1  foot 
.1  feet  -  1  ynnl 

5H  yard*   «  1  rod  or  pnli 
"  rod* 


70S0  cubU*  ineliefl  ' 


40 
8  furloQst  *• 
3  milea       » 
Linear  MmmBt«$  (tpecin/); 

1000  mitb 
72  point* 
4  inebe* 
7  »2incb«i 
0  Incfae* 
flfeet 
40  yard* 
10  chain* 
50B0  20reet 
Li0iuf  Mtature: 

4silb 
2  pint* 
4  quart* 
31  H  Kfillon* 
2  barrel* 


1  furlong 

I  fttatuLc  mile  (1700  yaid*.  or  52S0  feet) 

1  leaiBue 


1  inch 

1  inrh 

1  hAod 

1  Burvei'or'*  link 

1  apan 

1  fathom 

1  bolt  {cloth) 

1  furloDE 

1  nautical  mile  « 


M51fl  Btatulc  milea 


fiTmnatl 


—  1  pint 

—  1  quart 

—  1  fl^llon 

—  1  barrel 

—  1  bafshawl 


paper*  the  otd  m*a*ure  ia  *tilt  in  uae: 

24  sheets  »  1  quire 

20  quire*  *  1  ream  (480  •!»««*) 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    U 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES — ConHniAed 

For  papers  put  up  ia  c&af'»,  bundles,  nr  frames  tho  fallowiac  mvoaure  ift  now  used: 
25  EiheL'tA  -  1  quire 
20  guiroii  -  1  sliuidftrd  ream  (fiOO  ahieeto) 


Sqitan  Mmturt: 


8vrwytfr*M  Mtanire,' 


144  square  ipchcs  »  1  squaiv  foot 


9  square  feel 

30^  Kiuiiira  yarda 

ItiO  squAre  roda 

640  meres 

39  iquaro  milea 


■quaro  yard 
=*  I  tiquttro  itxl  or  perch 
"  1  ttcrt? 

—  1  t^jwDship  (li  niiic*  fiquare) 


625  9quan!<  Unkv 


7,fl3mchea   •*  I  link  (Cun tor's  or  survey or'aj 
100  linkii     -  1  chain  (  =  Qti  fc-et) 
80  chiunji  =  1  milu 


Timu  MfOMun: 


Trou  WHffht: 


10  (sRiuarw)  poles 
10  MquEire  chaina  or  100  square  rod* 
040  acres 
30  square  miles 


^1  (square)  poto  or  iquare  rod 
-1  square  obain  (survey or's) 

*  1  acre 

—  1  square  mile 

»  I  t4)wnj9ltip 


00  seconds 

60  minutes 

24  hours 

7  days 

365  days 

360  days 

24  gnloA 

20  p«nny  vreiffhta 

12  OUI1CC4 


Carat  (for  prwiousi  stones)  ^  200  niillicfaius. 
term  having  mauv  vutaes  in  vapou^t  cuuntries. 

Karat  (fineaeas  of  gold)   «=  l/2t  (by  weight)  goJd. 
gold:  IS  karats  tao  >  18/24  pure  gold. 


1  minute 
1  hour 
=  I  day 

—  1  w&iik 

—  1  year 

■  1  leap  year 

"=  1  p«niiyweighl 

—  1  ounce 

1  pound  (Troy) 


The  carat  was  formerly  un  ambiguous 
For  example,  24  kamta  fine  -  pure 


INTERNATIONAL  METRIC  SYSTEM 

In.  the  iotcniBtJoiial  metric  sysiem  the  fundament  at  unit  Is  the  meter — the  unit  of  length. 
From  this  tlie  unitJ*  of  ciipariiy  iUu^r]  ftud  td  woigbt  (^rum}  wt^ro  derive<i  All  other  units 
are  the  decirtud  a ubtii visions  or  mtiliipli^  of  ihe^se.  Thcitc  thn?e  tinits  are  simply  relalud; 
e.  g.,  for  all  practical  piirpo^es  1  Pubic  deeimetor  cqimU  1  liter  and  i  littjr  of  w»ter  weighs 
1  kttogram.  The  metric  tahle«  are  ioTmeti  by  combniiiie  the  words  "  meter."  "gram,*'  and 
"liter"  with  the  aii:  stumericfd  prefijcc»t  as  in  the  following  tables- 


i*ft/tx€t 

Meaninif 

Unitt 

milli- 

- 

one  thousandth 

1 

1000 

1 

O.OOl 

"meter'*  '  for  length 

centi- 

** 

one  hundredth 

,01 

M 

100 

1 

■ 

deci- 

_ 

one  tenth 

1 

10 

Uait 

_ 

one 

I 

"gram**  <  for  weight  or  mass 

deka- 

■• 

too 

10 

becto- 

■ 

one  hundred 

100 

"lit«t"  "tor  capacity 

kib- 

" 

otie  thousand 

1000 

I  One  meter  —  39.3?  inches;  1  liter  *  I.O.'^?  liqutd  quarts;  1  gram  •■  0.035  aTolrdupois 
ounce. 


i 

I 


d 


168 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


INTERNATIONAL  METRIC  STSTEM-ConfmiMeT 


UniiM  of  Length 


milUmeter  « 
ewiti  mater  « 
deoimster  * 
METER  - 
dekuMter  » 
heetomeCer 


0.001 
.01 
.1 
1 

10 
100 


kUometer  -  1000 


Umtt  of  CapaeUy 


milliliter  - 

oeotiliter  ■* 

deciliter  « 

LITER  - 

dekaliter  - 

hectoliter  « 

kiloliter  - 


0.001   titer 
.01 
.1 
1 
10 
100 
1000 


UniU  of  ir«t0Al  (or  Mom) 


milUgnm  ■* 
centigram  « 

deciffram  « 

GRAM  - 

dekagram  « 

hectogram  « 

kikigram  « 


0.001 
.01 
.1 
1 

10 

100 

1000 


UNITS  OP  AREA 


The  table  of  areas  b  formed  by  aquariiut  the  length  measures,  as  in  our  common  ayptem. 
J'or  land  measure  10  meters  square  b  cafled  an  "ARE"  (meaning  "area").  The  side  of 
one  an  b  about  33  feet.    The  hectare  b  100  meten  iquace,  and,  as  ite  name  indicates,  b 


100  avBs,  or  about  2\i  acres. 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    169 


o 


ai 
o 

6 

J 


o 


8  ^ 


f 


a 

m 


n^^t4«» 


OS  •*"  OC'  ??  X  M 

«  r*  Q  ■*■  r-  — 

"4*  O  tC  PI  00  ^ 


Ml   n       l»  M   II  II 


I  ir 


?  s 

<3i     go 

n  I   N  I 


ro     h-     oi         So         W3     p 

^    •»    IN       00    o       r;    *" 


^         rs     w 


It  n  II  n  I     M  n  A  11 


I   U    I    N    I 


i  P 


goo  OQ       r^  tt?       tD 


«   S8   S 


M  S^0a> 


POQ     Q     op 

G5  -1*  06       PO       «  CO 
C44C0O       4^       TH- 


II  I  II  M      <l  N  II  u  n 


II  I  A  n 

3^; 


II  I  U  M  II 

^  3  »  M  iC 


8 


I  tt  1 1  I 


o5     Wi- 


nds'    00 


3      S 


K  I   If  II   I 


I  II  I  It  H 


1/^'  Q  O  ^ 
C|*l>.  G 

II  N  II  I 


1^  ^-^00 
O  OQ  00  <^ 


K,  I  dodd     ddddd    p^^n^    to«r*qD«» 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    171 


1 


I 


o 


< 


It 


•Jit 

^1 


-I 


si  3  s  iiS 


R  n  I  I     I  I  I  I  I 


I  I  I  I      I  I  fl  I  I 


I    §      i 


I    I    I    I 


I    I    I    I    I 

a»        el 


S    2      SS 
SS   ^      SS 

I    I    I    I        I   fl    fl    I   fl 


dddd     ddddd 
U  II  I  R       H  H  H  H  R 


p^eiM^     M»wi«aDfi 


RUHR      R  I  R  R  R 


u  H  n  u     n  R  D  R  n 

CO  — ^      —  —  C^NN 

5  — —  N 


dddd     ddddd 


de^d«o     rj9P•♦ri^• 
R  H  H  H       R  R  R  R  R 


^•«M«     M»«i«aDfi 


R   fl   n   U       R  R   H   H  R 


285S    SS2?3^' 


OOOO      COOOO      P4«9ff9«      l««l««fl 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE    173 


^1^ 


|2 


o  S. 


Q3 


:J^ 


:^* 


eo»>.     ^     tcos     wr*  •:?     o 

«i^     o     •«<«r>.     •^•<*  CO     -^ 

anil     I  n  I  I  I  i  i  i  n  n  o  i  i  i 

'^            00  CO    »^  •^•«fii!a 

^-                »ft  CO     Q  oocaj^s 

to  *a     c6  i-*o«K.«5 


o     o 


I  s 


S    8 


*4^etci     •oco^'^ie     tQWot*    »^aD*a»o 


n  n  n  H     d  i  i  i  i 

O  O  9       O  O) 

^  CI  ?l       CO  'f 

00  o  T     c*«  o 


n  n  I  I     I  I  I  I  I 


O)  O  O  9       90CCQQC0O 

Q        ^Nco     iiJoSr** 

00  O^OI       O00«^C4 

II  n  n  n     n  n  o  n  u     u  n  n  n     i  i  i  i  b 

SoSo       »00«CQ  »0 

eob-O'f  r>.«— rt*  ^ 
^c^.*»S  <OQod»o  £3 
i-iCieO'^      «5»r>.*         O 


OOOO       0000*4       -letM^       l««Dl«OC« 


•1       C«  CO       'T  « 


I  I  I  I      I  n  H  I  B      Bill      B  I  B  I  B 


-^     c^        c^ 

S    2      S 


^    S    S      5     , 


CHAPTER  VI 
HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 

BY  Edith  Fleming  Br.idford 

The  business  of  housekeeping  needs  its  recordn,  not  only  those 
dealing  directly  with  finances — the  whence  anti  whither  of  the 
income — ,  but  those  showing  such  facts  im  the  quantities  of 
staple  supplies  bought  each  season  and  the  amounts  i*eniaining 
on  hand.  These  reeortls  should  include  tested  recipes,  varying 
in  quantity  or  cost  from  the  originals^  anri  such  data  as  the 
comparative  cost  of  supphesj  and  the  time  required  to  carry  on 
different  kinds  of  work  in  the  routine  of  housekeeping.  The 
filing  of  correspondence  helps  to  prevent  the  aeeumulation  of 
unimportant  letters  and  acts  as  a  reminder  that  replies  are  due. 
It  also  gives  latest  addresses^  thus  replacing  the  addrass-book 
which,  of  necessit3%  shows  many  alterations  and  is  frequently 
not  up  to  date.  Magazine  and  new^spaper  clippings  become  of 
greater  value  when  systematically  arranged  than  when  allowed 
to  accumulate  in  a  desk  <l rawer  or  when  pasted  in  a  scrapbook. 
Many  housekeepers  try  to  preserve  data  of  this  nature  by  mem- 
ory', dreading  the  thought  of  systematizing  records  to  so  great  an 
extent.  Such  organization,  however,  may  l>e  carried  out  graxlu- 
ally,  beginning  with  the  tlata  most  frc^cjuently  used  and  extend- 
ing to  oilier  subjects  of  interest. 

The  following  hst  of  subjects  may  suggest  a  clasflifi cation  of 
household  records;  (1)  accounts;  (2)  tinancial  papers,  such  as 
insurance  policies;  (3)  inventories  of  furniture,  hnen,  and  the 
like,  mth  a  separate  card  for  each  type  of  equipment,  such  as 
chairs,  sheets  single,  sheets  double;  (4)  comparative  cost  of 
foods  having  approximately  the  same  value  in  the  diet;  (5) 
stock  of  staple  food  supplias;  (6)  tested  recipes;  (7)  dishes 
suitable  for  each  of  the  three  meals,  those  quickly  prepared  being 

175 


I 


M 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


listed  separately;  (8)  household  hints  on  laundry,  dyeing,  and 
the  like;  (9)  storage  record;  (10)  time  record  for  eerttiin  kindn  of 
household  work,  when  no  interruptions  occur,  valuable  not  only 
to  the  woman  who  supervises  the  work  of  others,  but  to  the 
one  who  does  her  own  housework;  (11)  medical  and  dental 
record;  (12)  eorresp>ondence ;  (13)  gift  record,  of  special  value 
to  those  who  send  many  gifts  at  Christmas;  (14)  plans  for  the 
future,  such  as  making  gardens;  (15)  amateur  photography. 
Films  may  be  classified  according  to  place  or  subject.  Prints 
may  be  placed  with  films  or  separately  under  a  similar  classifi- 
cation. 


HOW  TO    KEEP  HOUSEHOLD    RECORDS 

A  small  filing  cabinet  of  pasteboard  or  wood,  in  which  the 
information  is  recorded  on  cards  arranged  according  to  the 
classification  chosen,  may  !x?  used.  The  general  headings 
jshould  be  written  or  printed  on  cards  known  as  guides,  w^hich  are 
of  heavier  paper  than  are  those  for  the  records  and  which  have 
on  their  upper  eilge  a  projection  which  serves  to  call  attention 
to  the  name  of  the  subdivision  written  upon  it.  Both  classes 
of  cards  should  be  arranged  alphabetically. 

Cards  3  by  5  inches  may  be  used  for  all  records,  although 
they  are  rather  small  for  recipes  and  accounts.  Many  house- 
keepers use  a  card  4  by  6  inches  for  reci|>es  and  one  that  is 
6  by  8  inches  for  accounts;  but  as  far  as  possible  the  same  size 
should  be  used  in  order  to  avoid  having  many  filing  cases. 

One  cabinet  of  wood  that  will  harmonize  witli  the  study  desk 
or  table  will  be  found  very  convenient.  Such  a  cabinet  of  one 
drawer,  will  accommodate  several  hundred  cards.  A  desk,  with 
a  drawer  adapted  to  the  purpose  may  be  bought,  or  a  drawer 
of  suitable  depth  may  be  sulKlivided  so  that  the  cards  will  fit  it. 
In  l)uying  a  desk  it  is  wtII  to  choose  one  in  which  the  drawers 
may  be  so  subdivided  as  to  conform  to  the  standard  sizes  of  cards 
and  pajjers.  These  sizes  are  3  by  5  inches,  4  !>y  6  inches,  5 
by  8  inches,  and  8J^  by  11  inches.  The  last  size  permits  the 
filing  of  papers  such  as  clippings,  receipted  bills,  and  correspond- 
ence in  the  manila  folders  generally  used  in  offices.     These 


I 
I 

I 
I 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


177 


manila  folders  may  be  classified  in  the  same  way  as  are  the  cards, 
the  topics  treated  being  noted  on  the  upper  left-hand  edge  of 
€*ach«  The  ikames  of  the  cla^ssifications,  if  there  are  several, 
may  be  written  or  printed  on  lai^e  guides  placed  in  front  of 
each  section  of  folders. 

HOUSEHOLD   ACCOUNTS 

The  advantages  of  keeping  household  accounts  include:  (1) 
an  accurate  knowledge  of  the  use  of  the  family  income;  (2)  a 
check  on  wasteful  expenditures;  (3)  an  encouragement  to  form 
a  proper  relationship  between  the  various  claj^^ses  of  expendi- 
tures; (4)  an  encouragement  to  save;  (5)  a  protection  against 
paying  a  bill  twice;  (6)  a  settlement  of  disputes. 

Equlp7ti€7it. 

Equipment  for  keeping  accounts  may  be  of  the  most  simple 
kind.  In  the  kitchen  there  should  be  a  hanging  hook  file  on 
which  to  place  delivery  slips  and  bills  to  await  entr>^  in  the  ac- 
counts, A  small  pad  for  memoranda^  to  which  is  attached  a 
pencil,  is  found  to  be  a  timesaver.  Either  a  desk  or  a  small  table 
with  a  drawer  shouki  be  provided  in  the  stuily  or  in  the  liviog- 
room  for  keeping  the  necessary  records,  whicli  include  an  ac- 
count book  and  a  check  book.  A  filing  case,  with  compart- 
ments indexed  alphabetically,  serves  to  keep  bills  in  order.  If 
it  is  possible  to  liave  the  best  equipment,  a  desk  with  a  drawer 
sufficiently  large  for  the  fihng  of  papei's,  including*  not  only 
bills  but  correspondence,  is  desirable. 

At  least  some  eciuipnient  is  necessary  in  order  that  there  may 
be  a  place  for  everything,  a  factor  which  contributes  greatly 
to  the  satisfaction  J  as  well  as  to  the  pmfit  derived. 

Forma  of  keeping  accourUs. 

Accounts  may  be  kept  in  book  form,  either  bound  or  loose 
leaf,  or  on  cards.  The  simplest  method  of  keeping  accounts 
is  one  that  records  merely  receipts  and  exi>enditures,  each  in  its 
owm  column,  no  entiy  being  made  for  chargcfl  items  until  pay- 
ment is  made,  For  this  purpose  pages  like  form  1  (page  183) 
are  good,  receipts  being  kept  on  the  left-hand  page  and  ex- 


I 
I 


178 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


penditurew  on  the  lii^hl-hand  page.  A  book  in  which  the  re- 
ceipts are  kept  on  the  left  half  of  tlie  page  and  the  expenditures 
on  the  right  half  of  the  same  page  may  be  iised^  fjut  such  a  book 
generally  does  nob  allow  sufficient  space  for  all  details  of  itemi- 
zation*  Some  persons  like  to  use  a  book  with  two  columns  at 
the  right-hand  side  of  the  page,  one  column  for  receipts  and  one 
for  expenditures,  lj»ut  with  this  fomi  more  c:are  must  be  taken 
to  enter  the  figures  in  the  proper  coluom. 

Such  a  record,  however,  gives  merely  the  total  income  and 
expense  for  any  period  of  time  without  answering  such  questions 
as  the  anioimt  of  l)aiik  l>alanee,  of  cash  balance,  how  much  has 
been  paid  for  food  during  a  certain  period,  how  I  he  exp<mditure 
for  food  compares  with  that  for  rent,  how  much  has  been  spent 
for  medical  service,  for  wages,  for  recreation,  for  education,  the 
amount  owed^  to  what  extent  the  family  has  laeen  supplied 
with  produce  from  the  home  farm  or  garden;  or  a  question 
of  dietetic  significance,  such  as  how  the  expense  for  meat  and 
similar  foods  compares  with  that  for  fruit  and  vegetables. 

In  order  to  answer  such  questions,  the  expenditures  must  be 
analyzed.  In  the  type  of  account  shoT;\Ti  in  fonn  1  (page  183), 
such  an  analysis  is  difficult,  and  in  a  liusy  household  the  time 
is  lacking  to  aceonii>lish  it  at  the  end  of  a  month  or  a  year, 
If,  therefore,  it  is  agrcwi  that  httle  satisfaction  is  to  be  de- 
rived from  a  mere  list  of  daily  expenditures,  a  type  of  account 
that  readily  gives  the  desired  information  must  be  considered 
(form  2,  pages  18-1  and  185). 

Expenditures  may  be  divided  under  the  headings  shelter, 
food,  clothing,  and  miscellaoeous,  and  as  many  suMivisions  as 
dei^ired  may  l)e  used  under  these  headings.  Under  shelter,  for 
example,  there  may  be  rent,  heat,  light,  wages  and  laundiy^ 
furniture  and  furnishings*  In  case  the  house  is  occupied  by  the 
owner,  the  rent  column  may  \m  replaced  by  one  in  which  are 
recorded  such  items  as  repaii's,  taxes,  and  insurance.  The  head- 
ing food  may  be  sulxiividefl  into  meat  and  eggs,  milk  and  cream, 
fruits  and  vegetables,  groceries  and  miscellaneous  items.  Under 
the  heading  clothing  may  be  entered  all  tlie  exp<*nses  for  such 
supplies  for  the  family,  or  an  account  may  l>e  opened  for  each 


I 


I 
I 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


individual    Miscellaneous  will  include  such  items  as  education, 

traveling  expenses,  medical  services,  allowances  to  children, 
recreation,  and  l)enevolcnce. 

In  the  foregoing  types  of  accounts  all  cash  is  entered  in  the 
recx^ipts  column;  therefore,  in  order  to  prove  the  accuracy  of  the 
record,  the  ditlerence  tjetween  receipts  and  ex|>enditures  must 
agree  with  the  sum  of  the  bank  balance^  as  shown  by  the  check- 
book, and  the  cash  on  hand.  In  the  plan  outhned  in  form  2 
(pages  184:  and  185),  the  totals  of  the  columns  showing  the  sub- 
division of  exixmditurea  must  agree  with  the  total  of  the  ex- 
penditures column. 

If  the  number  of  columns  is  too  large  to  be  accommodated  oii 
one  page,  a  separate  page  of  columns  may  be  'uled  for  each  of 
the  divisions:  cash  account,  charge  account,  produce,  shelter, 
food,  clothing,  and  miscellaneous  (form  3,  |>agt\s  186  to  189). 
Ttiis  necessitates  tiie  entering  of  dates  on  the  proper  page  of 
subdivisions,  as  well  as  in  the  cash  account,  the  charge  account, 
or  the  produce  account.  The  ruling  of  pages  in  fonn  3  (pages 
186  to  180)  will  explain  this  matter  more  fully. 

As  much  detail  as  is  desired  may  be  given  in  the  itemization 
columns.  More  than  one  item  may  be  written  on  each  line, 
if  dates  are  inserted  where  there  is  a  change.  The  charge  ac- 
counts of  a  Iiousehold  are  generally  with  so  few  firms  that  either 
of  the  fonns  shown  on  pages  184  and  187  may  be  used  satis- 
factorily. If  the  firms  with  whom  charge  accounts  are  kept  are 
numerous,  however,  it  may  be  well  to  devote  a  separate  page 
to  each  firm* 

If  it  is  considered  desirable  to  keep  a  separate  record  of  the 
bank  account  and  the  cash  account,  another  subdivision  may 
be  made  as  shown  in  form  3  (page  186),  The  advantage  of 
this  method  is  that  it  serves  as  a  test  of  the  aocuracj^  of  the  bank 
book  and  the  check  book,  and  it  also  shows  the  state  of  the  bank 
account  without  reference  to  any  other  record. 

The  opening  entrv^  of  a  cash  account  must  be  '*  balance  on 
hand,''  the  bank  balance  Ix^ing  shown  in  the  deposits  column, 
and  the  cash  balance  in  the  receipts  column.  Later  entries  will 
be  as  follows: 


I 


I 


180 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Bonk  depoBita  in  the  depoaits  oolnmn. 

Withdrawals  from  the  bank  in  l>oth  the  wtthdmwala  and  the  receipts 
columns, 

Receipts  for  cuiront  i\jm^  m  the  recf?iptH  cohimn. 

Expenditures,  whether  by  r-hi^k  or  in  ciksh,  in  the  expenditures  column, 
as  well  as  in  the  pniptT  colunin  on  the  page  of  the  sulxlivision  iif  exfieridi tares. 

Goods  for  which  payment  is  not  rniide,  in  the  right-hand  coUinm  of  the 
charge  acc*iunt  and  abo  on  the  pro|>tT  pagi*  uf  Huhdivisinn:^. 

Payment  of  a  chargwl  item  or  it+^ms  in  the  expenditures  column,  and  in 
the  left-hand  eohimn  of  the  charge*  actNJunt.  In  entering  such  itema,  rcf* 
erence  **houId  \yc  made  to  the  name  of  the  firm  and  the  datje  on  which  the 
l>ill  W£us  rendered. 

R<XHMpt  of  produce,  valued  at  current  market  rates,  in  the  produce 
account  and  on  the  proper  page  of  subdivisions. 

If  an  account  such  as  that  indirattxl  in  form  3  (pa^es  186  to 
189)  is  to  he  kept,  a  loowcvleaf  account  book  may  bo  iinetl  »o 
that  atidiiioiial  shet^ts  may  l>o  iosertctl  where  they  are  neetled, 
If  a  bound  book  is  preferred  and  it  is  necessary  to  rule  all  the 
sheets  used,  the  liook  may  be  divided  into  portions,  each  of 
which  consists  of  a  sufficient  number  of  pages  to  accommodate 
a  year's  records. 

To  balance  accounts 

It  is  desirable  that  accounts  be  balanced  at  least  once  each 
week  in  order  that  errors  and  oriiissioos  may  be  avoided.  In 
balancing  accounts,  totals  of  all  columns  may  l)e  inserted  in 
small  pencil  figures,  which,  if  not  erased »  make  it  unnecessary  to 
repeat  the  addition  at  the  end  of  the  accounting  period,  A  test 
of  the  accuracy  of  such  records  Ls  as  follows: 

Deposits  minus  withdniwals  =         bank  balance 

(This  must  agree  with  the  check  book  and  with  the  bank-book  balance 

minus  the  checks  not  yet  presented.) 
Receipts  minus  expenditures  =         cash  on  hand 

Dalance  in  the  charge  accounts       =         amount  owing 
Total  of  all  sulxiivisions  of  expenditures  =*  total  of  expenditures  in  the 

cash  account,  plus  produce,  pJus  balance  in  the  charge  account. 

To  pass  to  a  new  page,  the  totals  are  entered  at  the  foot  of 
the  completed  page  and  again  at  the  top  of  the  new  page  in  the 
corresponding  columns,  the  word  fonmrd  being  written  in  the 
itemization  column  on  each  page. 


I 
I 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


181 


To  close  Qccotinh. 

Accounts  may  be  closed  monthly  or  yearly  according  to 
whether  it  is  desired  to  compare  the  records  of:  (1)  different 
months  of  the  ^ame  year;  (2)  corresponding  months  of  different 
yeai-s;  or  (3)  yearly  totals.  At  the  end  of  each  accounting  period, 
however,  the  old  account  should  l>e  closed  by  entering,  preferably 
in  red  ink,  the  bank  balance  io  the  withdrawals  column  and  the 
cash  balance  in  tlie  expenditures  column  of  the  cash  account, 
and  by  then  obtaining  the  totals  of  all  the  columns.  The  same 
balances  should  be  carried  forward  to  the  detK:>sits  and  the  re- 
ceipts columns,  respectively,  of  the  new  account,  as  shown  in 
form  3. 

Summaries  for  companson. 

Monthly  or  annual  summaries  may  be  arranged  in  the  fol- 
lowing form: 

Income S 

Expenditures: 

Food >; 

Shelter 

Clothing. 

Misoellant'ous  ^ 

Total $ 

Bftlazuse. $ , 

Produce  account. .  %.    

As  an  example,  on  pages  183  to  189  are  found  entries  neces- 
sary to  record  the  following  facts  in  the  three  types  of  accounts: 

On  May  1,  1916,  the  hank  halance  was  S285.46  and  the  cawh  baltince 
$17.64.  Bought  from  A.  B.  Joni»s  on  account  6  poundi?  of  butter  at  $.35  a 
pound,  12 JO;  2  bushels  of  potatoes  at  $1.00  a  bushel,  $2.00;  10  (xiunds  of 
sugar  at  $.08  a  pound,  $.80. 

May  2,  paid  rent  by  check,  $30.00;  bought  for  cash  from  L.  K.  Harvey, 
3  dozen  eggs  at  $.22  a  dozen,  $.66;  received  check  for  $50,00  from  F.  A, 
BrovvTi  for  board  and  deposited  it;  received  from  J.  WiiliamSj  salary,  $30*00, 
of  which  $20. (M)  was  deposited  and  $10.00  retiiine^l  in  cash. 

May  3,  paid  account  of  May  I  with  A.  B.  Jones,  $4.90. 

May  5,  bought  9  yards  of  dress  goods  at  $L25  a  yard,  $11.25;  gathered 
garden  vegetables  worth  $.20  for  home  use;  jxiid  $2.00  for  magazine  sub- 
arriptioQ  to  May  1,  1D17. 


182  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 

By  checking  these  accounts  according  to  form  3,  the  following 
results  are  obtained: 

Bank  Account: 

DepoBits $355.46 

Withdrawals 30.00 

Balance 1325.46 

Cash  Account: 

Reoeipte $57.64 

Expenditures 48.81 

Balance $    8.83 

Total  Balance $334.29 

Amount  Owing 0.00 

Produce $      .20 

ExPENDrruREs: 

Shelter $  30.00 

Food 5.76 

Clothing 11.25 

MiscellancoiLs: 

Education 2.00 

Total $  49.01 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


183 


2882 


lS8i 


fa-^ 


5| 


03 

S 


CO    o 

Is 

s-g 


.S  8 


09 


:  S  o 
■'  o 


■♦I*  ^ 


is 


Cm 


£ 


8  S  8  w  8  * 


g     ^3«S8 


^5 


^ 


184 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


s 


s 


SS       SS5    8s 


S 


'5 


I 


88 


SS 


3 

I 


::s 


« *> 


5l 


PS  W  fc*  ^ri  <  Q  lC' 


O   d    fl 

all 


^'k 


iil 


noVSEHOU)  RK(  'OUDS 


I 


I 


9 


88 


8 
I 
a 

g 


8    S 


2§ 


3 

GQ 


P. 


_8_ 


_8_ 


1 
3 

o 

PE4 


186 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


< 


1 

T 

8S       SS    S    3 

^ 

g           -=     "     s 

1 

1 

ft 

SS       S               3 

^ 

t«  O             O                              h: 

V 

^M              ^                                « 

OS 

? 

1 

8                       S 

S                             8 

i 

i 

■3 

1:1 

1 

€       88               s 

i     ss            S 

If  :   l   :   -   -  : 

■m  :   ■  ^   ■  ^ 

„M    .  ^    ^  w 

:«|:|;| 

*" 

.  ^^-0    '  fi    . 

5 

■■3*1  i  '■    •: 

1. 

g    £>MPQ|^t-3    M-|-    >,  G  m 

■^^ 

2q 

k^ 

F^ 

1 

K 

S 

I 


it 
s.a 
:Sa 

•si 

o  S 
8-t! 

a,  « 
es 

a 

.29 

o 

9 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


187 


O 

o 
o 


S    s 

-^        "♦ 

88 

-^f  "♦ 

1 

A.  B.  Jones 

6  lbs.  butter  at  .35;  2  bu.  potatoes  at  1.00;  10  lbs.  sugar  at  .0^ 
A.  R.  Jnnp«.  flrroiint  Mav  1     .          

(SubtoUb)                                                                                 1 

1 

/a/6 

DaU 

^          CO 

ii 
il 

H 


S  8 

11 


3| 

.s  a 
.2  a 


O 
Q 

0. 


8 


I 


II 


ji 

11 

:&! 

-I 

c  o 

M 

l§ 

^s 
If  a 

§a 

%a 

I  "3 

S3  o 

•Si  . 

«    fl    § 

CO  E  8 


r 


a 


m 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOMB-MAKINO 


i1:§ 


s 


I 


8 


5l 


<n   c   0) 

■p  >^ 

111 
ill 

«M   o 

a?  o  o 

.'Is 
I 


a  Z 

o  a 


Is: 

\n 

-I  I 
§11 

3   5*^ 

^     BJ    *     P 

I       ^*? 

a  6  3.2 

a; 

.2 


s 


II 

s 

g 

« 

J? 

s 

>l 

o 

5 


.S 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


189 


o 

55 


S 


s 

^ 

»o 

^ 

s 

J 


C   M 

88 


o 


u 

CO 


^^   s 


§ 

8 

W 

5C.    » 

W5 

3 

I 

I 
f 


100 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


References 

Frederick,  ChriBtine.   The  New  Housekeeping.    1913. 
P^ttiaoii,  Mary.    Principles  of  Domestic  Engineering.    1015. 
Sheaffer,  William  Adam.    Household  Accounting  and  Economics.    1016. 
Bradford,  Edith  Fleming.    Housdidd  Accounts.     Cornell  Reading  Course 
for  the  Fum  Home,  Bull.  110.    1016. 


CHAPTER   VII 

HBAT  AND  LIGHT 

The  enormous  wa.ste  of  fuel  in  the  homes  of  this  country  m 
coriiinf?  to  claim  the  attention  of  thoup;htful  householders.  In 
both  the  heating  of  dwellings  and  the  eookinp;  of  food^  rareful 
choice  of  equipment,  intelhgent  o|x^rat4on,  and  forethoug:ht  in 
planning  will  go  far  toward  saving  one  of  the  world's  most 
valuable  coomiodities. 


CARE    OP  FIRES 

A  few  general  rules  for  controlling  heating  and  cooking  fires 
are  as  follows: 

1.  To  inereaso  the  amount  of  heat,  oimti  <lmft8  whlrh  \vi  air  into  the 
ash  pit,  and  with  soft  coiil  and  \vo<xi  when  fresh  fuel  hits  l>ix'n  add<xl  admit 
some  air  by  draft  immctliat'ely  over  the  fire  to  helfi  l>iirn  the  combuatilile 
gases  coming  from  the  fresh  fuel.  For  all  Rrm  burning  without  flatiie  keep 
this  draft  ck>setl. 

2.  To  deerease  the  amount  of  heat,  close  all  drafts  tight,  beinj?  sure  that 
ash-pit  door  and  dnifts  partif^iilarly  are  ti^ht  and  that  the  n-sh  pit  it^^lf  is 
free  from  air  leaks;  if  thi^  is  not  sufficient,  open  a  cheek  draft  in  the  smoke 
pipe — never  the  onr  in  the  fire  door  or  the  door  itself,  m  this  practice  is  ex- 
tremely wastefid  of  fuc  1. 

3.  To  insure  economy  of  fuel,  sec  that  all  flueg  and  surfaces  which  the 
hot  gases  pass  on  their  way  to  the  chimney  are  cleaned  every  two  or  three 
weeks, 

4.  Be  very  careful  in  the  use  of  the  damper  which  closes  off  the  smoke 
pipe,  as  such  a  dam[>er  is  dangerous  if  closed  too  tight  and  can  be  left 
wide  open  or  taken  out  cnlirt^ly  provided  the  ash  pit  is  light  and  the  above 
directions  are  followed. 

5.  Keep  the  direct  draft  in  a  cooking  stove  or  range  closed  except  in  hot 
weather^  or  when  starting  a  fire. 

RADIATION  * 

Hot  objects,  like  stoves  and  steam  pipes,  lose  much  of  their 
heat  by  radiation,  and  the  blacker  the  object  the  more  it  will 

•  I'Tom  l^  S.  Bnr.  Standards,  Circ.  65. 
191 


I 

I 

i 


m 


192 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


lose;  hence,  stoves  and  ste^im  pipes  shoukl  be  black  if  they  are 
intended  to  pive  out  Iwnt,  l>ut  hot-air  pipes  :iiid  rooking  uten- 
Kils  should  be  bright,  for  exiiiiiple  (inned  or  nirkek^d,  in  order  to 
lose  as  littk*  heat  as  pOHHif>le.  A  stove  nirkel  pkited  till  over  will 
give  out  only  about  half  a,s  much  Jicat  as  th(^  same  stove  at  tlie 
same  tetTif}erature  if  black. 

A  bright  luekel  or  aluminum  kettle  will  cool  very  much  more 
slowly  than  a  black  kettle.  On  a  eoaf  or  wood  stove  or  directly 
over  a  eoal  or  wood  fire,  a  kettle  is  heated  largely  by  heat  radi- 
ated from  the  stove  or  fire*;  therefore,  if  the  bottom  is  black  the 
kettle  will  heat  more  rapidly  than  if  bright.  Over  a  gas,  gaso- 
line, or  similar  blue  flame  the  condition  of  the  bottom  will  not 
make  so  mueii  dilTerenee,  since  here  most  of  the  heat  is  received 
by  contact  with  the  hot  gases,  Tlie  best  kettle  for  general 
iise  is,  therefore,  one  with  the  bottom  black  and  the  remainder 
polished,  but  for  use  on  a  gii8  stove  it  makes  little  difference 
whether  the  bottom  is  black  or  not, 

COMPARATIVE   COST  OF  VARIOUS   METHODS   OP  HEATING 

The  ideal  heating  system  is  one  that  will  give  a  uniform  tem- 
perature throughout  tiic  house,  if  desireth  Furnacas  are  more 
likely  to  produce  this  re.sult  than  are  stoves, 

A  stove  sehlom  heats  more  than  two  rooms  and  often  only 
one.  A  **drum,"  or  radiator,  for  utilizing  otherwise  wasted 
heat,  will  remove  the  ehill  from  an  upstairs  room  but  generally 
will  not  give  warmth  enough  for  a  sitting-room.  The  care  of 
several  stoves  is  greater  than  that  of  one  central  plant. 

TABLE  X. — CxjMrARisijN  rU:T\VKEN  Stov^ks  and  ITot-air  Furnace 


Method  0/ 
healing 

Initial  eont 

including  in- 

Atallaliofi 

Coftl  used  duT' 
ing  one  year 

Nundicr  of 
rooms  healed 

Two  attjv<*M 

Hot^ir 
fumacf* 

f90,  and 
drums  for 
upper  rooms, 

m 

$!00  to  115(1 

12  t<*  14  tons 
of  more  ox- 
pen.-^ive  von\ 

8  to  12  tons 

5 
StolO 

Uneven 
Fairly  evi»n 

I 
I 

I 

1 


NEAT  AND  LIGHT 


A  hot-air  system  is  the  cheapest  system  to  install  but  the 
most  expensive  in  the  amount  of  fuel  used. 

A  steam  system  costb  about  twice  as  much  as  hot-air  but  it 
requires  less  fuel. 

A  hot-water  system  costs  about  three  times  as  much  as  hot- 
air  but  requires  less  fuel  than  docs  either  a  hot-air  or  a  steam 
system. 

FACTORS  GOVERNING  CONSUMPTION  OP  FUEL  AND  CONVENIENCE 
OP  OPERATION* 

Climate, 

Variable  w^cather  and  high  winds  make  difficult  the  economi- 
cal use  of  fuel  and  coovenient  operation. 

Size  and  type  of  dweUing. 

Fuel  consumption  varies  with  the  size  of  the  house,  the  number 
of  rooms  heated,  the  thoroughness  of  construction,  to  a  eertaiii 
extent  the  building  material,  and  the  distribution  of  the  radia- 
tors. 

Location  of  dweUing, 
A  house  standing  alone  on  a  hill  requires  much  more  heat  than 
one  in  a  closely  built  row^  standing  in  a  hollow. 

HecUing  and  venliluling  system  used. 

Convenience  of  operation  of  any  house-heating  apparatus  is 
largely  dependent  on  the  systeni  of  heating  and  ventilation  em- 
ployed. The  cost  of  heating  will  also  depend,  but  to  a  less  de- 
gree, on  the  type  of  equipment.  Fuel  economy  and  convenience 
are  against  a  separate  fire  in  each  room  unless  the  house  is  small 
or  only  a  small  part  of  it  is  to  }w  warmed,  except  in  those  locali- 
ties where  natural  gas  is  available  at  low  rates  or  tlie  duration 
of  cold  weather  is  brief.  In  comparatively  few  homes  is  any 
special  provision  made  for  removing  the  foul  air,  leakage  from 
windows  and  doors  beinp;  the  usual  reliance,  particularly  in  a 
house  heated  by  a  hot-air  furnace.    If  an  indirect  steam  or  hot- 

•  Condcnsf*d  from  Saving  Fuel  in  Heating  a  House.  L.  P.  Brcclvcnridge 
and  S.  B.  Fiagg.   Bur.  of  Mii]£s,  U.  iS.  DapU  of  the  Interior,  Tech.  Paper  97. 


I 


194 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


water  system  is  installed  means  of  removing  foul  air  are  more 
frequently  provided,  dther  l>y  vent  starks  leading  into  the  attic 
or  through  the  roof,  with  register  openings  in  different  rooms,  or 
by  open  grates,  the  floes  for  which  can  be  equipped  with  damp- 
ers to  regulate  the  removal  of  fou!  air.  The  sytitem  some- 
times fails  to  work  satisfactorily  if  provii^ion  is  not  made  for  the 
escape  of  foul  air  from  a  room,  as  the  fresh  warm  air  will  not  con- 
tinue to  flow  in  unless  an  equal  amount  escapes.  The  first  cost 
of  heating  liy  the  hot-air  furnace  is  less  than  that  of  either  the 
steam  or  the  hot-water  system,  but  to  maintain  e<:iual  tempera- 
ture conditions  may  require  the  burning  of  more  fuel,  whether 
the  furnace  heats  air  taken  from  outdooi's  or  reheats  air  al- 
ready in  the  house.  Evidently,  reheating  air  will  require  less 
fuel,  and  eonse<|uently  less  attention  to  the  furnace,  tlian  Ideat- 
ing fresh  air,  but  the  ventilation  will  not  In*  gmuL  In  hcjuies 
heated  by  steam  or  hot  water,  the  method  of  heating,  whether 
direct  or  indirect,  and  the  provision,  if  any,  for  removing  foul 
air  will  affect  the  consumption  of  fuel,  which  will  vaiy  with  the 
percentage  of  tin*  total  radiation  that  is  indirect  and  with  the 
amount  of  warm  air  removed  througli  vent  stacks  or  grates. 
A  furnace-heating  system  maintains  a  less  even  temperature 
because  less  heat  is  stored  in  it.  In  this  rci^pect,  hot-water 
heating  has  a  distinct  advantage  over  l>oth  steam  and  hot  air 
because  the  large  quantity  of  water  in  the  boiler,  pipes,  and 
radiators  can  maintain  the  temperature  throughout  the  house 
for  a  considerafjle  time  after  the  fire  dies  down.  In  addition, 
the  maintenance  of  an  even  temperature  in  mild  weather  is 
easier  with  the  hot-water  system  because  the  temperature  of 
the  water  in  the  radiators,  hence  the  amount  of  heat  given  off, 
can  be  controlled  within  wide  limits. 


Size  of  bailer  and  furnace* 

If  to  supply  the  necessar>^  heat  requires  the  consumption 
20  pounds  of  fuel  an  hour  and  the  boiler  or  funiace  is  to  keep 
this  up  for  eight  hours  without  attention,  it  is  evident  that  the 
fire  pot  must  be  large  enough  to  hold  160  pounds  of  fuel,  and 
in  addition  tlie  quantity  necesi>ary  to  rekindle  a  fresh  charge, 


4 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


this  qoantity  being:  ordinarily  assumed  to  be  20  per  cent  of  the 
quantity  of  fuel  in  the  fire  pot  after  the  firing,  or  in  this  case 
40  pounds,  Henee  the  fire  pot  must  hold  200  pounds  of  fuel 
and  still  leave  space  for  combustion. 

If  anthracite  coaL  bituminous  coal,  and  coke  are  available 
and  each  ha^s  such  heatinp;  value  that  20  pounds  of  it  will  be 
required  an  hour  to  supply  heal,  the  tire-pot  space  occupied 
by  an  eight-hour  charge  of  each  fuel  may  be  figured  by  dividing 
200  by  the  weight  a  cubic  foot  of  each  fuel  the  space  thus  cal- 
culated being  approximately  3,6  cubic  feet  for  anthracite, 
4.0  cubic  feet  for  bituminous  coal»  and  5.7  cubic  feet  for  coke. 
Therefore,  if  the  fire  pot  were  designed  for  anthracite,  it  would 
hold  coke  enough  for  a  firing  period  of  ai>proximatcly  five  hours 
instead  of  eight. 

Not  only  is  the  capacity  of  the  fire  pot  important,  but  its 
depth  should  receive  con.sjdemtiorK  If  the  full-rateil  load  is 
to  be  carried  without  attention  to  the  hiv  for  a  Oiininium  period 
of  eight  hours,  the  depth  of  the  fuel-lied  should  be  at  least 
12  inches.  A  heater  that  is  to  burn  coke  should  i:*^*  designed 
for  a  greater  depth — probabty  24  inches — on  account  of  the 
bulkiness  of  the  fuel  and  the  tlififerent  combustion  conditions 
required  for  burning  it  satisfactorily.  In  fact,  one  of  the  largest 
manufacturers  of  boilers  for  heating  houses  by  steam  or  hot 
water  now  designs  such  f^HLiipment  for  a  fuel-bed  18  inches 
deep  when  anthracite  is  to  be  used. 

Regarding  the  necessary  size  of  fire  pot,  another  detail  that 
affects  both  economy  and  convenience  of  operation  is  the  com- 
bustion space  above  the  fuel-bed.  Any  unlmrnefl  combustible 
gases  that  leave  the  fire  pot  are  rapidly  cooled  in  passing  over 
the  heat-absort]irig  surfaces  between  the  fire  pot  and  the  smoke 
pipe,  and  their  temperature  is  quickly  brought  below  that  nec- 
essary for  ignition.  If  either  anthracite  coal  or  coke  is  to  be 
burned,  a  relatively  small  coml)Ustion  space  above  the  fuel- 
bed  will  be  required  because  combustion  takes  place  in  or  close 
to  the  fuel-befi  If  bituminous  coal  is  to  be  used,  however, 
more  space  should  be  provided  for  burning  the  combustible 
gases  rising  from  the  fuel-bed,  or  a  considerable  part  of  these 


I 


I 


19(1  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-AfAKlNG 

gases  will  escape  unburned,  the  flue  surfaces  will  become  coated 
with  soot,  and  the  lieat  losses  will  be  large. 

Another  important  detail,  if  bituminous  coal  is  to  be  used, 
is  the  cross  section  for  the  gas  passages  between  the  fire  pot 
and  the  smoke  pipe.  If  the  passages  are  not  large  enough,  the 
draft  may  be  cut  down  by  the  aceumulation  of  soot  in  the  fines, 
possibly  to  siieh  an  extent  that  the  fire  will  go  out.  Also,  if 
bituriiinous  coal  is  to  l^e  used,  the  flues  should  l>e  of  such  size 
and  so  arranged  as  to  invite  frcs:itient  anfl  eas}^  cleaning. 

Obviously^  if  the  heater  is  sniollor  than  the  proper  size,  fire 
at  shorter  intervals  will  be  necessary,  drafts  will  have  to  be 
kept  open,  and  the  temperature  of  the  escaping  gases  will  be 
higher  than  if  a  heater  of  proper  size  is  installed — between 
375*^  and  475*"  F.  in  ordinary  winter  weather.  The  inconven- 
ience resulting  from  too  h  ili-r  or  fnmace  is  less  than 
frani  one  under  size,  but  *  i  idling  will  be  necessary  to 
control  tlie  fire  satisfactorily  in  iiuld  weather. 

Each  heater  IniB  a  particular  capacity  at.  which  its  efficiency 
is  highest »  but  if  the  heater  be  properly  designed,  within  a  cer- 
tain ra!;ge  of  capacity  the  efficiency  will  he  practically  eciual  to 
the  maximum.  The  equipment  selected  should  be  one  that  dur- 
ing most  of  the  heating  season  will  be  operated  within  these  hni- 
its,  but  will  take  care  of  maximum  demands  for  a  short  time. 

Kind  ofjud  used. 

The  most  desirable  fuels  are,  as  a  rule,  the  most  expensive. 
It  may  be  possible  to  burn  some  of  the  smaller  siz(»s  of  anthra- 
cite with  the  furnace  or  egg  size  and  thus  elTect  a  saving.  The 
price  a  ton  of  these  smaller  sizes  is  less  in  prf>portion  to  their 
calorific  value  because  they  are  in  less  demand  and  they  can 
be  need  to  advantage  in  banking  the  fire  overnight  or  in  e^rrj'- 
ing  a  slow  fire  in  moderate*  weather.  Pea  coal  is  proljably  the 
best  size  for  such  use,  but  unfortunately  it  and  the  smaller 
sizes  are  obtained  with  difficulty  in  many  of  the  markets  where 
the  larger,  or  domestic,  sizes  are  sold. 

Among  the  various  kinds  and  grades  of  bituminous  coal^ 
the  differences  in  fuel  value  and  in  their  physical  e:haracter- 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


istics  are  much  greater  thau  among  anthracites,  and  for  that 
reason  sliould  recoive  esi>eiial  attention.  In  every  locality  a 
number  of  coals  will  be  available  and  tlie  most  satisfactory 
one  in  any  parlicuiar  cime  will  usually  have  to  be  determined 
by  trial,  unless  the  characteristics  of  each  and  the  effects  of 
these  are  known. 

Uniformity  of  size  is  a  desirable  eharaeteristic,  as  it  permits 
easier  control  of  the  fire.  This  is  particularly  true  of  anthracite, 
a  mixture  of  sizes  often  accounting  for  poor  results  from  a  cer- 
tain lot  of  coah  Sized  or  screened  Ijituminous  coal  may  be 
bought  for  its  greater  cooveiueoce,  even  though  its  cost  may 
exceed  that  of  lump  coal  or  run-of-niine.  In  some  localities 
alack  coal  has  been  burned  successful ly,  althou|0;h  it  is  liclicved 
that  this  would  not  ordinarily  be  possible  because  of  the  strong 
draft  required. 

Care  offurnuce. 

The  heater  should  receive  regular  attention^  and  if  the  de- 
mands for  heat  are  intelligently  anticipated,  as  they  ordinarily 
can  be,  the  house  can  be  warmed  with  minimum  trouble  and 
fuel.  When  the  rooms  become  too  warm,  the  fire  should  be 
checked  by  stopping  the  admission  of  air  under  the  grate  and 
decreasing  the  draft  by  opening  the  ** cheek  damper.''  If,  as 
often  is  done,  the  ash-pit  damj>er  or  the  ash-pit  door  be  allowed 
to  remain  opeo»  and  the  draft  n^Juced  by  opening  the  fire  door, 
the  combustion  of  the  fuel  continues,  although  at  a  slower  rate, 
but  the  cold  air  entering  the  fire  door  chills  the  heater  so  that 
little  heat  is  realize*!  from  the  coal. 

Sometimes  the  ihaft  is  so  strong  that  the  difficulty  of  con- 
trolling the  fire  is  increased,  especially  when  the  demand  for 
heat  is  small  or  the  fire  is  to  be  banked.  To  facihtate  control 
under  such  conditions,  it  is  usually  advisable  to  have^  besides 
the  check  damper,  a  plain  damper  in  the  smoke  pipe.  This 
damper  should  tit  the  smoke  pipe  loosely  and  must  never  be  en- 
tirely closed :  during  most  of  t!ie  heating  season  it  can  be  kept 
partly  closed,  but  during  severe  weather,  when  more  heat  is 
required,  it  can  be  opened  wide.    Sometimes  the  draft  may  be 


i 


A 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

insufficient  to  hum  Ihe  neeensary  quantity  of  the  particular 
fuel  used.  If  such  a  condition  is  always  noticed  in  severe 
weather,  the  heater  may  be  too  small,  the  smoke  pipe  may  be 
choked  or  be  poorly  fitted  to  the  heater  or  to  the  chimney,  or 
the  chimney  may  be  tpo  small  or  be  olistructed  by  soot  or  debris. 

If  the  draft  trouble  proves  to  be  due  to  leaky  connections  or 
to  oI>st ructions,  it  can  readily  be  corrected.  If  the  heater  or  the 
chimney  is  too  small,  the  difficulties  may  be  lasyoned  cither  by 
firing  more  frequently  and  keeping  the  fyel-l>ed  thinner,  or  by 
using  larger  coal,  or  fairly  uniform  size,  in  order  that  the  air 
may  more  easily  flow  through  the  fuel-bed.  Conven^ly  if  the 
draft  is  very  strong,  a  smaller  size  of  coal  may  possibly  be  used 
to  good  advantage,  lender  no  circmnstances  should  the  top  of 
the  chimney  be  lower  than  the  highest  part  of  the  roof,  or  a 
current  of  air  may  Ije  forced  down  the  chimney  and  the  base- 
ment be  filled  with  smoke  when  the  wind  blows  in  certain 
directions.  Similar  trouble  may  be  experienced  if  the  chimney 
is  not  as  high  as  an  adjoining  building. 

If  thi*  bottom  of  the  tush  pit  is  on  a  level  with  the  floor,  or 
only  a  shfvrt  distance  l>elow  the  grates,  £us  is  orrlinarily  the  case, 
ashes  cannot  l)e  allowed  to  accunmlatc  under  the  grates  for 
more  than  two  days,  or  possibly  more  than  one  day,  except  in 
moderat  e  w^eat her. 

Brightly  tinned  hot-air  furnace  pipes  oft^n  lose  less  heat 
when  bare  than  they  do  when  covered  with  one  or  two  layers  of 
asbestos  papier,  since  the  latter  riuliate^s  heat  so  much  more 
readily  than  the  bright  tin  as  more  than  to  balance  the  insulat- 
ing effect  of  the  thin  asbestos  covering.  Of  course  if  the  pipes 
were  originally  black,  the  covering  would  lie  useful,  and  if 
the  insulating  material  were  thick  enough  {^/%  inch  or  more) 
it  would  save  heat  even  on  bright  tin  pipes.* 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  FIRING  AND  CLEANINO  A  FUBNACE  t 

Suggestions  for  firing  and  cleaning  a  furnace  that  apply  re- 
gardless of  the  fuel  used  may  be  given  as  follows: 

•  l\  S,  Hur.  Stiindards,  Cirr.  55. 

t  L.  P.  Breckenridge  and  S.  B.  I'lagg.    U.  S.  Bur.  Mines,  Tech.  Paper  07, 


I 


I 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


199 


The  fire  should  be  attended  to  regularly,  and  not  left  until 
it  has  burne<.l  low  aruj  heat  is  needed  throughout,  the  house. 
Often  the  need  {*an  f)e  arititipated  and  by  attention  at  tlie  proper 
time  trouble  can  be  avoiited.  la  addition,  economy  of  fuel 
is  more  likely  to  lje  obtained  by  fairly  uniform  rates  of  burning 
than  by  attempting  to  supply  a  large  amount  of  heat  in  a  short 
period  and  then  suddenly  cliecking  the  &re. 

The  size  of  the  coal  fired  should  be  as  nearly  uniform  as  pos- 
sible. Using  eoal  of  uneven  size  prevents  an  even  flow  of  air 
through  the  fuel-bed  and  increases  the  tendency  of  the  fire 
to  burn  through  in  spots. 

One  should  tr>'  to  keep  the  fuel-bed  free  from  air  boles,  as 
they  cause  waste  of  fuel  and  may  prevent  the  heater  from  main- 
taining the  desired  temperature. 

Excessive  shaking  of  the  grates  should  be  avoided  and  thus 
the  amount  of  coal  lost  by  falling  into  the  ash  pit  reduced. 
Ordinarily,  the  shaking  of  the  grate^s  should  be  stopped  as  soon  as 
bright  particles  begin  to  drop  through  or,  under  some  conditions, 
as  soon  as  hght  from  the  fuel-bed  l>egins  to  show  in  the  ash  pit. 

When  the  demand  for  heat  is  urgent  or  the  fire  must  be  built 
up  quickly,  the  fuel-[3ed  nmst  be  kept  uniformly  thick,  but  not 
too  tliick,  using  the  coarser  part  of  the  coal  and  all  the  draft 
available.  Air  will  then  flow  freely  through  the  entire  fuel-bed 
and  bum  the  coal  at  a  maximum  rate.  Under  such  conditions, 
the  firings  should  be  made  at  frequent  intervals  and  small 
charges  used,  so  that  the  fresh  fuel  will  only  for  a  short  time 
chill  the  temi>eraturc  of  the  fire  pot.  When  heavy  firings  are 
made  the  fresh  fuel  not  only  increiises  the  resistance  to  flow  of 
air  through  the  fuel-bed,  so  that  the  rate  of  combustion  is  low- 
ercfl,  but  it  acts  as  a  cold  blanket  to  screen  the  heating  surfaces 
from  the  radiant  heat  of  the  fucl-iieth 

In  mild  weather  it  is  well  to  leave  on  the  grates  a  layer  of 
ashes  under  the  active  fyel4>etL  This  layer  will  increase  the 
resistance  to  the  flow  of  air  through  the  fuel-lied  and  facilitate 
the  maintenance  of  the  low  rate  of  combustion  required  in  such 
weather;  also,  it  will  cut  off  some  of  the  grate  surface. 

Clinkers  should  be  kept  worked  out  of  the  fuel-bed,  for  they 


itt 


200 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


obstruct  t  he  flow  of  air  through  it^  clog  iho  grates,  and  may  break 
the  parts  tif  sliaking  gratt?s. 

Heating  surfaces,  or  Oues  as  they  are  sometimes  called  if  the 
heater  be  a  l:>oilcr,  must  be  swept  clean  so  that  they  will  readily 
absorb  heat.  Soot  cuts  down  the  heat-absorbing  power  of  any 
heating  surface  veiy  rapidly,  and,  t  herefoitv,  should  not  be  al- 
lowed to  accumulate.  Ashes  should  iifit  Ix*  allowcxi  to  pile 
up  under  the  grates  in  the  ash  pit,  for  they  will  seal  off  the  air 
from  part,  of  the  grate  surface  and  may  cause  tlie  grate-bars 
to  be  burned  and  warped. 

Coal  as  free  from  slate  and  ash  as  possible  should  be  pur- 
chased. 


ADVANTAGES  AND   DISADVANTAGES   OF  VARIOUS    FtrELS 

Some  of  the  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  various  fuels 
for  re^sidenee  heating  have  l>een  mentioned.  Tlie*se  and  some 
others  are  summarized  in  the  table  on  page  201: 

LIGHTING 

Although  electricity  is  in  many  ways  the  most  desirable  form 
of  artificial  light,  other  lights  may  still  have  certain  advantages. 
The  most  effective  use  of  any  type  of  light  should  be  studied  for 
both  economic  and  hygienic  rea^sons. 


Types  of  lights  and  their  care. 


Candles. 


The  use  of  candles  is  now  limited  almost  entirely  to  decora- 
tive lighting.  Candle  hght  is  expensive  in  compariiKjn  with 
other  lights. 

Kerosene, 

Kerosene  gives  a  soft  light  that  is  easy  on  the  eyes  if  it  m 
properly  shaded  by  a  slightly  liluish  chimney.  The  disadvan- 
tages of  kerosene  lighting  are  tfic  labor  of  cleaning  and  tilling 
the  lamps^  the  odor  and  the  vitiation  of  the  air,  and  the  danger 
of  explosion.  Following  are  some  suggestions  for  the  care  of 
Jrerotsane  lamps: 


I 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


201 


TABLE    Xr*-ADVAMTAOW  AWD  DmADVANTAOEfl  OF  VaJOIOCS  FuBUI  ANt>  Of  ELKCnttCITT  » 


Fud 


Wood. 


Asibracite 

Bituminous  con] 


SubbiiuraiDous  coal 
and  kigmte. 


Peat.. 
Coke. 

Oil 


Gas 

Electricity. 


AdtatdageM 


(o)  Cteauliiicss.  ifA  cheerful  fire, 
(c)  quit^k  ttiicruase  of  heat,  (d> 
cheap  in  some  localities. 


(ti)  Clean linciw,  {h)  wwy  control 
of  fin*.  {0  eiisier  to  realise  beui 
iQ  cTial  than  im  the  case  with 
oLh«?r  rrmb,  (</)  «t<eady  ht"«L 

(it)  Low  nripe,  {h)  &va\XvAn\i\y, 
<c}  high  beat  value  (in  tho  b(»t 
($ruic^),  id)  low  pc'rroiittt^p  d 

inert  mat  l«r  (in  the  be»t  gradcfl). 

<a)  Rclft  lively  low  prip«,  (A) 
availability  (in  Aome  regiotu»)t 
(c)  resprmd^  cfwckly  to  opeDlQii 
of  dratta. 


{a)  tn  ^n«?rat,  the  aamo  aa  for 

wood. 
(a>    CI<«anlin<w9,    (it>)    resiipond*! 

qiiipklvto  opening  of  drafts,  {i) 

fairly  high  heat  vuluo. 

(a)  HiKh  heat  value,  (ft)  imrm-' 
dirtt**  ifirrwi-'W'  nf  ht^iW,  (r)  rlenii- 
jinrtiwii,  {d)  smull  BtoraKC  apace 
necessary. 

(a)  EaMe  of  control,  (b)  clcanli- 
rieiWj  (c)  eonveni»>n(*e.  id)  im- 
mediate inoreaw  of  h«at« 

(n)  Even,'  advanta^f! 


BtandtanUigeiK 


id)  LoM-  fuel  value,  {h}  \Atjst  stor* 
Jiijt)  japaee  □eceasary.  (r)  labor  in 
preparation,  (r/)  dcarrity,  (e)  do«t 
not  bold  fipc  bnjs,  [/)  unsteady 
heat.  ^m 

in)  Iliisb  prjfc,  (ft)  difficulty  of  ob-  fl 
taining,  (c^  Blower  response  to  ^| 
»  bitnge  of  drafts.  ^ 

(<j)  Dirty,  (M  inuike  produnsd,  (ej 
more  atteotion  to  fire  and  furttace 
nvoosaaiy  than  with  anthradie. 

(rt)  Slakes  and  deteriorat«s  on  ex- 
posure to  air,  ih}  iukea  fire  spoil* 
lancously  in  piles,  (r)  heat  value 
generally  trjw.  (d)  heat  in  fuel  dif* 
ficult  to  realise,  («)  firoa  do  cot 
keep  well,  \f\  gaaea  genera t«d 
over  lire  pot  itomctime»  bum  in 
smiiik<;  pipe.  rauMUg  cxcoMive 
he^tms. 

(a)  Low  beat  value,  (6)  bulkiiieia. 

(«)  Bulkineaa.  (6)  Uabllitv  of  fire 
gniogout  if  not  prupt-rly  handled, 
k)    hre   rcMmire*  nit  her  frequent;  | 
attention  unleaa  fire  pot  is  deep. 

(o)  High  price,  {h)  difficulty  of  safe 
Atonige. 


{(i)  High  priee  in  many  place-a. 
{tt)  High  price. 


•  L.  P.  BreckcnridRe  and  S.  B.  Fliigg.    U.  8.  Bur,  Mines,  Tech.  Paper  97, 

1,  FiJl  lamps  daily  if  they  are  in  use.  Do  not  fill  them  too  full.  2.  Keep 
the  wicks  low  when  lamps  are  nf>t  lii^htod,  3.  Do  tit^t  turn  the  wicks  low 
when  the  lamps  are  lighted,  befaii.s*:'  t(X>  little  air  h  allowed  for  burninja:,  and 
ill-smelling  ^uses  are  given  off.  4.  Blow  ont  a  lamp  by  a  erosa-wise  motion 
at  the  top.  I>>  not  blow  into  the  chimney.  A  paper  may  l>e  held  at  the 
t'op  i>n  ».ine  side  and  a  enrrent  of  air  direetixl  aguin-st  it.  5.  Oecasionally  boil 
the  burners  in  tt  solution  of  washing-soda  or  in  strong  soapsuds. 

Aceiylene,  air  gm^  and  Blau  gas. 

Lighting  by  acetylene,  air  gas,  or  Blau  gas  is  fairly  common 
in  village  ant:J  country  homers*  It  is,  however,  in  general  more 
expensive  than  the  gas  or  electric  light  available  in  larger  towns. 
Acetylene  gives  a  t>rilliant  wliitt*  light.  Itn  greatest  ilisadvan- 
t^e  is  the  danger  of  explosion  from  careless  handling*  The 
products  of  combustion  are  not  given  off  in  great  amounts. 


1 


202 


.4   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Gas. 

Manilas  should  always  he  used  on  gas  burners,  since  they 
give  much  more  and  a  steadier  Jight  for  a  given  amount  of  gas 
than  does  an  open  flame  (Fipc*  46).  The  saving  in  gas  will  more 
than  pay  for  the  lamp  and  iimntle8.  The  tubes  of  drop  lights 
and  stoves  should  he  handled  carefully  in  order  to  prevent  their 
cracking  and  allowing  gas  to  escape. 

Ekdricity* 

Of  electric  lamps  three  kinds  are  common   in   household 


Inverted  manflt 


Open  fjame  Uprigf?!    mantle 


-^*  20   CANDLEPOWfeR 


Fio.  46.* — Compariflon  of  amount  of  liRht  given  by  different  gas  lamps.  Each 
lamp  is  suppD5(Hl  to  bum  5  cubic  io^t  an  hour,  coatins  H  '^^^^  *^  Bi^  ^ 
fLOO  a  1000  cubic  feet.  Note  that  the  mantle  lamp  gives  four  or  five  timea 
aa  mueb  light  as  the  open  flame.  The  inverted  mantle  gives  more  bght 
downward!  and  Icn  upward  than  the  upright  tnaaUe. 

use.  These  are  the  ortiinarj^  carbon,  the  metallized  earlion 
or  "Gem/*  and  the  tungsten  lamp.  Nearly  all  of  the  last 
kind  sold  in  this  country  hear  the  trade  name  '* Mazda.** 
All  three  kind8  are  commonly  marked  with  the  number  of  watt^ 
(power)  they  take  when  used  at  the  number  of  volts  (electiieal 
pressure)  also  marked  on  the  lamp.  When  electricity  is  paid 
for  at  a  certain  rate  a  kilowatt  Iiour,  the  cost  of  current  for  any 
lamp  is  easily  calculated.  The  kilowatt  hour  is  1000  watt  hours, 
and  the  number  of  watt  hours  used  by  any  electrical  device  is 
simply  the  watts  tinier  the  number  of  hours  burned.  For  ex- 
ample, a  .30-watt  lamp  in  twenty  houi-s  use^s  I, (MM)  watt  hours 
or  1  kilowatt  hour;  at  10  cents  a  kilowatt  hour  current  for  such  J 
•  U.  S.  Bur.  Standards,  Circ.  55. 


k 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


203 


L 


laoip  eoHis  one-half  cent  an  hour.  This  is  true  of  any  50-watt' 
lamp  without  regard  to  the  kind  of  filament  it  has.  The  amounts 
of  light  produced  hy  ililTerent  kinds  of  filaineiitB  are,  however, 
decidedly  different  (Fijj;.  47),  If  the  voltage  nupphed  in  lower  than 
the  lamps  are  intended  for,  the  watts  taken  by  the  lamps  are 
reduced  somewhat,  but  the  light  is  reduced  a  great  deal  more. 
The  amount  of  hght  obtained  from  a  given  amount  of  electric 


Gem  lamp 


lannp 


Carbon    lamp 


»  20    CAHPL6 POWER 


Fio.  47,^ — Comp^son  of  amount  of  light  given  by  diflereDt  electric  lamps. 
For  fompanf»tm  a  consumption  of  50  watts  m  assumed,  Although  tungsten 
lurnpfli  tire  not  usually  made  in  thm  dxe.  Fifty  watts  at  10  cents  n  kilo- 
watt hour  coatit  U^  rent  an  hour,  and  givea  12  to  16  candled  in  a  carbon  lamp 
and  40  to  45  in  a  tungsten  lamp-  Ml  lamps  give  different  candle-power  at 
different  anjudicH,  Each  arrow  in  the  figure  ia  proportional  to  th6  candle^ 
power  in  its  direction. 

energy  depends,  therefore,  on  the  voltage.  Under  fsdr  conditions 
the  amount  of  light  and  the  corresponding  cost  for  current  (at 
10  cents  a  kilowatt  hour)  would  be  alxjitt  a^  follows: 

TABLE  Xll 


Kiftd  of  lamp 

Candles  per  waii 

Cosi/ar  1,000 

candle  hours 

in  cents 

Carbon * 

0.25  too  33 

About  0,40 
0,80  to  1.00 

30  to  40 

Gem . , .  . , 

25 

Tungsten   

10  to  12.5 

I 


I 


Prom  a  60-watt  lamp,  for  examplej  the  c-andle  power  obtained^ 
is  15  to  20  for  a  carbon  lamp,  24  for  the  Gem,  and  56  for  the 

tungateu. 


304 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Comparaiive  cost  of  various  common  lights  *  (Fig.  48). 

For  the  production  of  light  a  great  variety  of  laraps  are 
available,  aiiil  in  some  kinds  remarkable  inprovements  have 
been  oiade  in  the  last  few  years.  These  improvements  have 
made  it  possible  in  many  eases  either  to  improve  the  hghting 
of  the  home  without  iiiLTeasing  the  eost  or  to  reduee  the  cost. 


Kerosene  Mame  -  -  -  ^ 
Kerosene  Mantle— -1^ 
Gas    Open   flamc'--^ 

Gas      Mantle -^ 

Carbon    Electric --•■ 

'Gem*     Electric  - ^ 

Towten  tkctrit- 


a 


k 


^        io       »9       £«     «9       50     3»      M 
Cost   ^1000  candle 'hour*  In  cenU, 


Flo.  48. — Relative  cost  of  i^rodudns  a  Riven  nmount  of 
light  by  various  illutiunuBtji  at  tuual  pricoe.  Costs 
lire  bajN^  od  the  following  prices:  Candles,  12  cents  a 
pound;  kcrow^net  15  cents  a  gallon;  eaa.  $1  for  1000 
cubic  fc«t;  electricity  10  cents  a  kilowutt  hour,  Tho 
soUd  linca  represent  coat  of  fufl  or  of  eurrent,  the 
shaded  parts  the  cost  of  the  mantlea  and  bull^M*.  Where 
prices  are  different  from  thoao  gi%'cn  above*  costs  will 
be  correapoDdingly  different. 

The  total  economic  gain  which  is  made  possible  by  doubling 
the  efficiency  of  produrtion  of  light  is  almost  incalculable.  To 
consider  only  one  item,  it  has  l^een  estimated  by  gwjd  author- 
ities that  the  liberal  use  of  the  newer  lamps  might  reduce  the 
yearly  consumption  of  coal  in  the  United  States  by  $8,000,()0(X 
The  general  tendency  has  been,  however,  not  to  reduce  the 
amount  of  powder  used,  but  rather  to  use  more  light.  The  abil- 
ity to  produce  so  much  more  hght  without  increasing  the  eost 
has  encouraged  the  development  of  methods  of  lighting  in 
which  attention  is  given  primarily  to  artistic  appearance  and 

•  U.  S.  Bur,  Standards,  Circ.  55. 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


205 


to  the  comfort  of  the  user  rather  than  to  getting  m  much  light 
as  possible  out  of  a  fixture. 

The  cost  of  Ugh  ting  by  any  method  depends  to  some  extent 
on  local  conditions^  and  the  statements  of  cost  given  below  will 
apply  only  approximately  in  any  particular  case.  The  cost 
will  naturally  depend  on  the  candle  power  of  lamps  used  and 
the  time  the  lamps  liurn.  In  order  to  make  comparisons  bcv 
twec^o  difTerent  kinds  of  lamps,  it  is  convenient  to  consider  a 
definite  amount  of  lightin|ij,  which  is  obtainetl  by  multiplying 
the  candle  power  of  tlie  lamps  burnefl  by  the  number  of  horn's 
they  Inirn.  For  exaniple,  1,000  candle-hours  of  lighting  may 
be  obtained  by  lairning  a  10-eaodle  lamp  100  hours  or  a  50- 
candle  lamp  20  hours,  Init  if  the  lamps  are  of  the  same  kind 
the  cost  will  l)e  about  the  same.  Calculations  of  the  cost  of 
producing  1,000  candle-hours  by  different  lamps  arc  sometimes 
useful  in  choosing  between  lamps,  but  of  coui*se  it  does  not 
necessarily  follow  that  the  lamp  for  which  this  cost  is  lowest  is 
most  economical  for  household  use. 


I 
I 


Methods  of  distrifniHng  light 

The  three  methods  of  lighting,  direct,  indirect,  and  semP 
indirect,  are  dei>endent  for  their  efficiency  on  the  type  of  shade 
or  reflector  eniployed.  By  means  of  reflectors,  light  may  be 
concentrated  on  a  small  spot  or  spread  out  over  a  large  area. 

In  the  direct  method  of  lighting,  the  light  falls  or  is  rcflectetl 
directly  on  the  objects  to  be  lighted.  Although  the  maximum 
amount  of  light  is  furnished  by  this  method,  the  disadvantages 
of  a  fight  that  is  too  brilfiant  and  concejitrated  are  now  recog- 
niKed.  If  a  drop  light  is  used  for  close  work,  it  is  advisable  at 
the  same  time  to  have  another  light  for  the  general  illumina- 
tion of  the  room  in  order  to  prevent  a  strain  on  the  eyes  pro- 
duced l)y  the  contrast  of  a  small  briifiantly  lighted  area  in  a 
practically  dark  room. 

In  indirect  lighting  all  the  light  is  reflected  upward  by  an 
opaque  reflector  and  returned  to  the  room  diffused  generally 
from  the  ceiling.  This  metho^i  is  the  most  comfortable  for  the 
eyes,  but  the  most  expensive. 


4 


I 
I 


^ 


206 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME'-MAKING 


In  semi-indirect  lighting  a  diffuaing  bowl  allows  some  of  the 
light  to  pass  through  the  bowl  to  the  room  and  the  remainder 
to  be  thrown  up  to  the  ceiling.  This  is  a  good  method  for  the 
general  illumination  of  a  room. 


CHAPTER  VIII 
STOVES  AND  COOKERS 


Every  kitchen  should  bo  eciuippcid  witli  a  good  range  and 
a  fireless  cooker.  If  a  coal  or  a  woo<:l  range  is  used  in  comlji- 
nation  with  a  fireleas  cooker,  the  two  should  l>e  near  enough 
together  to  prevent  much  loss  of  heat  in  transfening  the  food 
from  the  range  to  the  cooker,  Soniefinies  the  two  pieces  of 
equipment  are  combinecl  in  gas  or  eltxlric  stoves,  the  oven 
being  insulated  so  that  after  it  l)ecomes  thoroughly  heated  the 
heat  may  be  retained  long  enough  to  cook  food  without  the 
use  of  more  fuel.  Buch  stoves  are  more  expensive  tlmn  the  or- 
dinary type,  but  the  saving  of  fuel  thnjughont  the  hfetinie  of 
the  range  woukl  doubtless  justify  the  increaseti  cost  in  the  be- 
ginning. 

A  coal  or  wood  stove  which  is  uswl  in  winter  for  tieating  as 
well  as  cooking  should  be  supplemented  by  a  kerosene  stove 
or  some  other  kind  that  will  help  to  keep  the  kitchen  cool  in 
hot  weather.  With  a  kerosene  stove  and  a  fireless  cooker,  the 
di&comfort  of  a  hot  kitchen  in  summer  and  the  waste  of  un- 
necessary heat  may  be  avoided. 

Any  kintl  of  kitchen  range  should  l;>e  as  free  from  flirt-collect- 
ing crevices  and  grooves  a.s  possible.  In  selecting,  attention 
should  be  paid  to  the  possibilities  of  convenient  imd  thorough 
cleaning. 

Kerosene,  gas,  and  electric  stoves  are  often  built  with  the 
oven  at  such  a  height  that  stooping  is  unnecessar>%  There  is 
no  reason  why  such  a  location  should  not  he  l>etter  in  every 
way  than  the  customary  one  which  has  l)cen  l>orrow*Nl  from 
coal  stoves.  Ovens  higher  tlian  the  working  surface  of  the 
stove  can  be  heated  quite  as  efficiently  with  these  fuels  as  wlien 
placed  below  the  main  surface  of  the  range.    A  good  height  for 

207 


I 


MANUAL 


HOME- 


ve- 


working  surfaces  in  a  kitchen  is  34  inches  (pa^e  1 10).  This  a^" 
plies  to  cook  stoves  iis  well  as  to  tables  and  sinks.  It  ma^^  ho 
necessary  to  raise  the  stove  on  blocks  to  bring  it  to  this  leveK 
If  a  range  is  raised  on  feet,  it  should  be  at  such  a  height  that 
the  floor  underneath  can  be  reaeht*tl  ea,sily  for  cleaning.  It  may 
Ije  set  flat  on  the  floor.  Zinc  or  tiling  is  geoerally  placed  nn(!er 
the  stove,  extending  for  8  or  12  inches  beyond  the  edge  for 
protection. 

DraflB  in  kilchen  stoves. 

As  soon  as  the  fire  has  warmed  the  air  in  the  stove,  sto 
pipe,  and  chimney,  the  heated  an-  rist^s,  forretl  up  l>y  the  cooler 
air  from  the  rtK»m  and  from  outside.  Admitting  air  below  the 
tire  l>ox  gives  a  ch'aft  and  helps  the  tire  to  bom,  Admitting 
air  through  the  opening  in  the  stovepipe  checks  the  draft  by  ad- 
mi*  ting  cold  air  and  by  causing  les8  air  to  pass  through  the  stove. 

The  oven  and  tlie  hot- water  reserv'oir^  if  there  is  one,  are 
heated  l>y  opening  a  damper  which  allows  the  hot  smoke  from 
tlie  tire  box  to  pass  over  the  oven^  under  the  hot- water  reser- 
voir, under  the  oven^  then  up  behind  the  oven  and  into  the 
stovepipe. 

Utensils  for  JuelsaviTig, 

Special  utensils  are  made  for  use  on  kenxsene,  gas,  and  elec- 
tric stoves,  which  are  so  shaped  as  to  make  it  possible  to  cook 
two  or  three  foods  in  as  many  utensils  at  one  time  over  one 
burner. 

A  pressure  cooker  cooks  foot!  in  from  one-third  to  one- 
fourth  the  usual  length  of  time.  Although  its  iuitial  cost  is  some- 
what high,  the  amount  of  fuel  that  may  be  saved  by  its  us*i 
during  a  year  grc-atly  decreases  this  cost. 

A  steamer  in  which  several  kinds  of  food  can  be  cooked  at 
the  same  time  over  one  burner  saves  fuel  if  the  meal  is  planned 
to  that  end. 

Selection  of  wood. 

In  general,  the  greater  the  drj'  weight  of  a  non-resinous  wood, 
the  more  heat  it  will  give  out  when  burned.     Woods  having 


I 
I 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS  209 

high  fuel  values  are  osage  orange,  lonist,  hiekory,  oak,  apple; 
black  birch,  yellow  liireh,  hard  maple,  lj(x^*h,  long-leaf  pine,  and 
cherr}%  One  cord  of  wood  such  as  the  aljove,  weighing  when  dry 
about  3, .500  to  4,000  pounds^  is  required  to  e<:|ual  the  heating 
value  of  one  ton  of  coah  Of  other  woods,  such  as  ash,  black  wal- 
iiut»  short-leaf  pine,  hemlock,  red  gum,  sycamore,  or  soft  maple, 
which  weigh  about  2,5fX)  to  3,400  pounds  a  cord,  it  requires 
about  a  cord  and  a  half  to  ecjual  one  ton  of  coal,  while  of  wood 
guch  as  Norway  pine,  cypress,  basswoocl,  spruce  and  w^iite  pine, 
two  cords  weighing  when  air  dry  2,000  to  2,500  pounds  each 
are  required. 

The  available  heat  value  of  a  cord  of  wooti  depends  upon 
the  extent  to  which  it  has  been  dritd.  If  the  wood  is  green 
part  of  the  heat  is  taken  up  in  evaporating  the  water. 
Therefore  the  drier  the  wood,  the  greater  is  the  available 
heat* 

A  cord  of  wood  occupies  128  cubic  feet  of  space.  If  air  spaces 
between  the  sticks  are  large,  if  the  sticks  are  of  small  diameter, 
finely  split,  or  twisted  and  knotty ,  or  if  the  wood  is  loosely 
stacked,  less  wood  is  secured  in  a  cord.  If  necessary  to  burn 
w^ood  in  a  stove  or  furnace  intendefl  for  coal,  it  may  f>e  done 
by  covering  the  grate  partly  with  sheet  iron  in  which  holes 
have  been  punchetl,  or  with  fire  bricks  in  order  to  rethice  the 
draft.  It  this  is  not  tlone  the  wood  is  wasted  by  being  con- 
sumed too  fast,  producing  a  hot  fire  which  may  damage  the 
fire-l>ox. 

Hickory  is  generally  first  choice  among  the  non-resinous 
woods,  liecause  of  the  high  fuel  value  to  a  unit  volume  of  wood, 
even  burning,  and  lasting  quality.  White  oak  is  next,  followed 
by  black  locust,  luiri!  maple,  beech,  l>irch,  and  '*  white  ash." 
The  white  pines  have  a  relatively  low  heat  value,  but  ignite 
readily  and  give  out  a  quick  hot  Same. 

Kerosene  stove. 

Kerosene  h  obtained  by  distilling  crude  petroleum  which  con- 
sists of  a  variety  of  infiammable  liquids.  The  more  volatile  it 
is,  the  more  brilliant  the  hght.    Kerosene  which  can  be  heated 


Mi 


210 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


to  140°  I'\  witiioyt  yielding  a  vapor,  will  not  take  fire  even 
the  container  is  l>roken  and  oil  spilled. 

The  following  riil&s  for  ojx^rating  a  kerosene  stove  should  lx» 
obaervcHh  Seieet  the  best  Iturnei's  |>ossible;  do  not  blow  directly 
down  on  the  flame  but  blow  across  it;  wash  burners  occasionally 
in  a  little  washing-soda  and  if  wicks  are  kept  clean ^  smoke  may 
be  avoided;  do  not  leave  the  biirnerj  with  the  flame  turned 
down:  change  the  wicks  wlicn  they  become  clogged  with  im- 
purities; do  not  fill  the  kerosene  lamp  or  stove  near  a  fire  or 
Inirning  lamp;  burners  should  allow  air  to  gain  access  to  the 
wicks  to  create  a  current  to  carry  off  products;  aii*  holea  and 
tutx»s  should  be  free  from  dust  and  dirt;  containers  should  be 
kept  nearly  full  but  if  too  full  the  oil  expands  with  the  heat  and 
oozes  out. 

Cool  range. 

A  coal  range  which  has  as  much  insulation  as  possible  should 
be  selected  to  avoid  waste  of  heat.  Over  90  per  cent  of  the  heat 
generated  in  the  ordinary  kitchen  range  is  usually  lost. 

Ashe^s  should  lie  shaken  down  gently,  leaving  a  thin  layer  of 
half-burned  coal  in  the  bottoiii  of  the  grate,  or  if  the  coal  is 
burned  out,  a  tliin  layer  of  fresh  coal  may  be  placed  upon  the 
hwDltom  of  the  grate.  Usually  a  half  turn  of  the  grate  is  suffi- 
cient to  shake  down  the  ashes  without  shaking  out  any  half- 
burnefl  coal 

In  keeping  a  fire  in  a  range,  it  is  better  to  add  a  small  amount 
of  coal  each  time  and  fire  often.  The  lied  of  live  coals  should  not 
be  entirely  covered  with  coal  but  spaces  should  Ik?  left  through 
which  enough  heat  can  pass  to  fire  the  gases  as  they  distill  off 
from  the  new  coal;  gases  that  go  up  the  chimney  are  lost. 

The  grates  should  be  kept  clean  and  clear  of  clinkers,  and 
caking  of  ashes  and  cinders  at  the  bottom  of  the  fire  should  be 
avoided. 

In  kindling  a  fire,  crumpled  paper  or  shavings  may  he  used, 
across  which  kindling  is  laid  in  a  way  to  provide  air  spaces; 
a  few  pieces  of  hard  wood  are  added  to  the  kindling  and  a  little 
coal,  followed  by  more  later. 


I 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS 

etas  range. 

rj as-stove  humors  should  lie  adjustod  so  tiiat  the  blue- 
in"een  cent  rat  part  of  tJie  tkumi  is  about  half  the  height  of  the 
entire  flame.  If  the  flame  is  very  long  and  is  bright  yellow  in 
parta,  too  little  air  is  lx?ing  admitte<:l;  if  short  and  inclined  to 
make  a  sUght  roaring  noise,  there  is  too  mucli  air.  In  the  lattei 
case  the  flame  is  liable  to  *' strike  back;'^  under  which  coodition 
much  carbon  monoxide  is  formed.  In  all  gas  burners  the  vari- 
ous openings  should  be  kept  elean.  The  amount  of  air  supplictl 
to  gas  burners  is  usually  adjusted  by  means  of  a  small  damper 
or  shde  to  be  found  at  the  base  of  the  burner. 

Inmdaied  ovens. 

It  is  estimated  that  90  per  cent  of  hent  supphtxl  for  baking 
in  ovens  is  lost  through  the  sides  of  the  oven.  A  considerabU* 
saving  of  heat  can  lie  etlected  by  insulating  the  oven,  as  is  done 
in  the  case  of  mast  electric  and  some  g:is  ovens.  An  ordinary 
gas  oven  may  be  fairly  well  insulated  iry  m<'ans  of  sheet  as- 
bestos cut  to  fit  all  the  sides  with  the  possible  exception  of  the 
one  occupied  liy  the  door,  and  attached  by  wires  to  the  corners 
of  the  oven. 

The  so-called  automatic  cfwkstove,  or  insulated  oven,  has  i\w 
advantage  over  the  ordinary  tireless  cooker  of  being  still  more  eco- 
nomical in  legard  to  fieat  and  labor  am!  of  eliminating  an  addi- 
tional piece  of  equipment  in  tlie  kitchen »  I>ccanse,  as  orilinarily 
made,  it  has  top  burners  also,  and  hence  takes  the  place  of  the 
usual  range.  In  the  cynunercial  insulated  oven,  both  the  pre- 
liminary heating  of  tlu*  food  and  the  complete  cooking  process  are 
accomplished;  conscKiuenily,  botli  the  loss  of  heat  oeciLsioncd  by 
transferring  the  food  container  from  the  stove  to  the  cooker  ant! 
the  labor  of  this  motion  are  eliminate^J.  Moreover,  the  walls  of 
the  oven  itself  are  heated  and  do  not  draw  the  heat  from  the 
food.  There  are  now  on  the  market  insulated  ovens  adapted  to 
the  use  of  giis,  electricity,  arul  kerosene.  Tl»e  heat  supply  in 
some  of  these  ovens  is  {controlled  V>y  a  dial  liantl  that  may  be 
adjusted  for  the  nyml>er  of  minute?*  for  which  the  heat  is  it?- 
quired^  at  the  end  of  which  time  the  heat  is  cut  off  without 


Wk 


212 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  XIII, — Gkxkral  Cookixo  PnncsiinKii  * 


(I)  l>ry  hrat 
Bmitiog 


(2)  RoiuCltiiE 


(3)  Bi 


(4)  ToaaliiUE 


(5)  Bn>woing 


(H)  Atnint  hmt 
BchUh^ 


(7)  SitntDeiicuE 


(8)  Btefriog 


(0)  {Stc&mitig 


(10)  Po(u?hiQg 


(11)  Braittiog 


(12J  in 


Frying 


(13)  8»ut^itiK 


(U)  FricM- 


ttfftnition 


Cooking  bH«»  or  amaU  pifM^ea 
of  mt-al  or  fowl  by  hoi  liir 
frorn  n.Kl-hoi  coola  or  flame. 

Tun     hmilinit:    cookiog     ou 


Coiikiug:  lurgo  pie<>fji  or  wliolf? 
ciireartH  of  nn'-jit  *tr  fuwl  tiy  hiji 
nir  from  op«;n  fire  or  in  hot 
ovpn.     No  wal<?r  aiiilwL 


Cooking  iiMsatt  vegwUblw,  or 
hatti-ra  »ad  dJOUghi  by  hut  uir 
of  ovciu 

Baking  of  battera  on  hot  ptka 
or  fftom*. 


nrowninjc    «iirf»f«    of    Hour 
ttiixturea  over  fire. 


tffntLiiK  f^i  flour  to  hrowu  iii 
iho  first  or  IttHt  ppriod  of  cook- 
ing of  drvtlgcd  meat  or 
rrumbed  di»h. 


Cooking    by    imni«<minK    In 
iprnt**r  which  i*  bubbhng  well 


Co«jking  in  hot  wtiter  ihut 
aUlEhtIv  bubblcit  but  doca  nut 
Ih>jI. 


tiong,   alow 
lueriofc  of  to 


rooking  or  «m- 
SAt.  fi*h,  poultry. 


Cotjking  in  fit«ain  above  Ixiil- 
tog  WAter. 


Cooking  of  eggs  or  c|k  mix- 
tures tn  hot  wait!f-;-boiniag  na 
tlicy  an?  droppod  into  it  thud 
wimmrring  to  r«M>k^ 


C«Hikiftg  of  tni'at  by  u  rom- 
bin&tiun  of  baking  and  slew- 
ing. Rako  in  hot  oved  15 
niiuutriv.  Olid  wat^T  and  coo- 
tinu*'  cooking. 


Cooking  by  Inutieraing  id  hot 
fat. 


Cooking  in  frying  pan  in 
small  amount  of  fat,  aearing 
rtful  turning  oftgn. 


Cofikiitg    of    flc*h    fowJ    by 
•aut^ifiK  and  then  *te»*'inir. 


Frifri^«*MinK  in  f»vi;n.  Ilrtiwn 
iti  fat  in  fryinu  pnti,  plucf  in 
(^ovcn«il  carthenwarv  or  glaan 
'ItMh  and  ^uok  acvrmi  bouts 
in  iivrn. 


Coat  ttr  wood 


Over  bed  of  hot 
eoals. 

In  heated  frying 
pan  on  stove. 


In  v^ery  hot  oven. 


fJvon  of  ruiigi\ 
Griddle  on  top  of 
stove* 


Ovor  b<Hi  of  luii 
roaU  or  ovi-r  heat 
from  mr^tal  top- 


In  hoi  ovin. 


In  kettle  on  top 
of  fltove. 


In  k«»tt|(»  or  prtn 
i»n  Ktttvf  ur  id 
iluublT!  iMjiilrr. 


In  partly  ckxted 
kettle  on  buck  of 
atove. 


In  »lcann'r  over 
kettle  on  stove. 


In  aaurepan  or 
iron  frying  pan  on 
ningw. 


OvcD. 


tn  fmng  kettle 
on  atove. 

tn  frying  p^t}  on 
atove. 

In  frying  t^^n  on 
utove* 

Top  of  atovo  And 
in  ftlow  oven. 


Git»  »tnikt< 


Under  broiler  o 
ga*  oven. 

In  heated  fryin 
pan. 


Under    broiler   or 
in  very  bol  oven. 


Hub  oven  or  grid- 
dlf  on  top  of  burn* 
cr. 


t)n  htfAted  luetal 
nUnd  over  burner 
or  under  o\Tn 
broth'r 


In    hot    oven     or 
under  broiler. 


I 


In      kettle 
burner. 


In  ketth>  or  pan 
over  »nml]  btirn- 
er.  In  double 
boiler. 


III  partly  eloaod 
kettle  over  low  bur- 
ner. 


In    ateaujer    over 
kettle  on  burner. 


I  n     aauccp^n 
iron      frying      j 
over  burtwr. 


ChriMtt 


I 


In  frying  kctile 
over  burner. 

In  frying  pan  over 
burner* 

In  frying  pan 
ovfr  burner. 

Tf)p  of  atove  and 
in  *low  oven. 


*  Anna  M.  East 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS  213 

TABLE  XIII. — Ge.vkral  Cooking  Pm^rjmEn^Continued 


Oilitote 

Open  fire 

Firclesa  cooker 

Pre*»ure  cooker 

In    heated    fryinK 
pan. 

Before  open   fire 
in  fireplace. 

Over  open  camp 
fire. 

(1) 

In  very  hot  oven. 

On  spits  or  crane 
over  open  fire. 

12) 

Oven    or    griddic 
over  burner. 

Dutch  oven  or  on 
ipiddle  over  fire. 

By  means  of  heat- 
ed stones. 

(3) 

On    heated    metal 
sUnd  over  burner. 

Held  in  wire  rack 
before  open  fire. 

(4) 

In  hot  oven. 

(6) 

In      kettle      over 
burner. 

In     kettle       sus- 
pended over  firo. 

In  kettle  set  on 
heated  stone. 

(6) 

In  kettle   or  pan. 
In  double  boiler. 

In     kettle   or  in 
double  b<jiler  over 
fire. 

In  kettle  of  cook- 
er. 

(7) 

In    partly    closed 
kettle   over   low 
burner. 

In    closed    kettle 
on     heated     racks 
in  open  fire. 

Best  use  of  fire- 
less  cooker. 

(8) 

In    steamer    over 
kettle  on  burner. 

In    8t earner   over 
kettle  on  open  fire. 

Pudding  can.  set 
in  boiling  water. 

Set  in  rack   above  (9) 
water     in     pressure 
cooker. 

In     saucepan     or 
iron   frying  pan 
over  burner. 

(10) 

Oven. 

Dutch  oven. 

Brown   first   and 
put  in  cooker. 

Brown  first  and  put(ll) 
in  cooker. 

In     frying    kettle 
over  burner. 

In  suspended  fr>'- 
ing  kettle. 

(12) 

In  frying  pan  over 
burner. 

In      frying     pan 
over  fire. 

(13) 

In  frying  pan  over 
burner. 

Brown  in  fat  and 
put  in  cooker. 

Brown  in  fat  and  (14) 
put  in  cooker. 

Top  of  stove  and 
oven. 

(16) 

214 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


furtlicr  attention.  A  large  iasulatcd  oven,  modeled  somewhat 
like  an  ordinary  gas  stove,  is  more  expensive  than  is  a  firelesH 
cooker;  but  the  cost  of  a  moileratc-sized  range  with  an  inwu- 
kited  oven  is  praet  ically  1  he  same  as  that  of  both  a  gas  range  and 
a  firek\ss  cooker.  This  is  a  subject  worthy  of  investigation  by 
one  who  is  purehiising  new  kitchen  equipment. 

Firekss  cooken^* 

The  comm(*rcial  fii*eless  cooker  costs  more  than  does  the 
home-made  one;  ou  the  other  hand,  it  is  hkely  to  Ik*  more 
durafile,  it  seldom  lias  any  absorbent  material  exposed  to  tho 
odor  and  the  steam  from  food,  the  cooking  compartment  can 
l>e  kept  clean  more  easily,  and  it  is  frequently  provdtled  with  a 
ventilating  valve  or  some  such  device  that  makes  Iniking  and 
roast inic  fK>ssib!<\  However,  the  hom£»-made  fircless  cooker  has 
proved  to  be  wholly  satisfactory  for  such  foods  as  cereals,  vcge* 
tables,  dried  fruit^i,  custards,  fowls,  and  certain  cuts  of  meat. 

There  is  practically  no  danger  of  fire  from  a  home-mado 
cooker  unless  veiy  hot  radiators  are  used.  Since  thermometers 
are  not  used  in  the  average  home,  and  the  radiators  may  be 
heated  to  an  unnecessarily  hiKh  temperature,  it  seems  safe^ 
to  advise  a.^ain  t  the  use  of  radiators  unless  the  insulator  is  not 
innammalile.  Under  no  conditions  can  a  very  hot  rathator 
al>ove  the  food  be  safe,  l)c*cause  it  is  too  near  the  muslin  of  the 
cushion.  While  baking  is  impossible  without  the  use  of  radia- 
tors, there  are  sufficient  ottier  processes  for  wliich  the  home* 
made  cooker  may  )>*>  used,  t-o  warrant  the  trouble  and  the  small 
cost  of  making  one. 

The  cost  of  a  home-made  fireless  cooker  may  range  from 
about  8L50  to  $8,00  or  more,  depending  on  the  materials  used. 
If  several  sizes  of  aluminum  pails  with  clamps  are  iiought  for 
food  containers^  the  cost  may  equal  that  of  a  small  commercial 
cooker.  In  buying  a  firelass  cooker  the  following  points  should 
be  considered:  insulation,  exterior  case,  interior  lining,  cooking 
utensils,  vent  valve,  hot  plates,  locks  and  hinges,  size,  and  cost* 

*  Canon,  He  len,  and  Bnnver,  Ludle.  The  Fireless  Cooker  and  lU  Uses. 
Cornell  Readiag-CourBe  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  95, 


I 


I 

I 


I 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS 


215 


The  following  nmterials  and  utensils  are  needed  for  mLLkmg 
a  fireJess  cooker  (Fig.  49): 

For  tho  rase,  fir  c^bmol :  A  wooden  \iox,  a  trunk,  an  ice  Iwx,  a  Riilvanized 
inm  ash-can,  a  wtxKl(*n  candy-burkrt,  or  the  like.  Any  kind  <»f  ca«e  that  is 
used  should  be  provided  with  a  tighl>fitting  covvr.    If  an  ordinary  box  is 


Fia»  49. — pia^aoi  of  a  home-made  fireless  cooker. 
A,  outer  case;  B,  cuahion;  C,  uuukiDg  fom- 
purtmeiit;  D^  food  container;  E,  packing 
mtkteriah 

used,  it  should  bo  of  ^sufficiently  heavy  material  to  permit  the  use  of  good 
hinj^ea  ant!  fastenings. 

For  the  lining  of  the  case:  Sheet  asbestos  1/8  inch  thick,  or  heavy  wrapping 
pap<'r. 

For  packing  material:  CI  round  cork,  sawdusti  excelsior,  mineral  vvoc»!, 
paper  torn  in  small  pieces  and  crumpled,  powdered  a'^lx'stos,  ahavinj?^,  straw, 
imy,  wtM>J^  cotton  batting,  or  some  such  iit)n-condu('tin>^  material.  Miiieml 
wool  and  powdercxl  aslx*stos  are  Ijoth  pood  non-condoctors  of  heat,  and 
they  have  the  atlditional  mrrit  4*f  not  being  intlammable;  but  they  are 
harder  to  w*ork  with  than  are  tho  other  materials.  Gloves  should  be  worn 
by  the  perstjn  doing  the  packing,  and  care  should  be  taken  not  to  allow^  the 
material  to  enter  the  nose  and  the  mouth. 

For  the  eookiiig  compartment:  A  deep  bucket  or  kettle  of  agate,  galvanized 
iron,  or  tin,  of  such  a  size  that  tlic^e  may  be  a  sfmee  of  at  least  thrf?<»  inelies 
between  the  case  and  the  top,  the  bi>tt4>m^  and  the  sides  of  the  bucket 
This  bucket  or  kettle  should  have  a  tijjht-fittingj  flat  cover.  In  place  of  a 
bucket,  two  thicknesses  of  l/lO-ineh  sheet  asbes^tos  or  heavy  ivrapping  paper 


21G 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


may  be  shaped  to  form  the  cooking  romiuirtment ;  bul  ii  l^ueket  is  more 
darabli'  aad  can  be  kept  in  a  more  HJinitiiry  i-ondition. 

For  the  eookiiig  iitertiil:  A  covenxl  kvU\p  or  burket  of  agate  or  aluminum, 
of  a  siae  siiituble  fi>r  tin*  arTUMinl  of  fcioti  cir<linnriiy  to  lie  rookf^d  in  it,  Thi* 
utt*nsil  should  be  diirahle,  and  fn^e  fmm  iTeviri-s  and  seams  in  whirh  particles 
of  food  and  harmful  mirn>-cirpamsrns  may  JfMljaje,  nm\  it  should  Ije  supplied 
with  a  tight-fitting  eover  that  can  Ik»  elamiMnl  ddwn.  S<'am|ess  aluminum 
18  perhaps  mr)«t  commonly  iisixl  for  this  pur^xise,  Sfx^'ial  firelesa-cooker 
utensils  can  generally  lie  obtained  froni  a  loeal  hardware  dealer  or  a  firm 
that  manufaetures  tireless  cookers. 

For  the  collar  to  c^over  the  pat^king  material:  A  piece  of  ^inc^  cardboard, 
sheet  ast>estofi,  or  muslin^  of  nueh  a  sltafx*  aa  to  fit  the  gpaee  In-tween  the 
case  and  the  bucket  that  serves  as  the  ecxjking  compartment.  Zinc  is  good 
for  this  puqxjfle  because  it  doea  not  tejir  witli  constant  uav  ils  do  the  other 
mat4*rial«,  it  cnn  be  waaheti,  it  doc^  not  ru>tt,  and  it  is  not  inflammable. 

For  the  cushion:  Heavy  drilliniCj  denim,  or  muslin. 

For  the  hot  j>lat^*Sp  if  deiiirp<l :  Flat  stones,  stove  lids,  nr  speeial  iwiap^tone  or 
metal  radiators.  Most  focxbcan  l>o  cookinl  without  the  use  of  hot  plates  or 
radiators,  but  a  higher  temperature  can  Ije  rrarhcd  and  a  ccK)kin«  trmiK^rar 
ture  prolouRf^  l>y  their  use.  Hot  plat*^  should  never  Ijc  uivmI  nnh's^  the 
cooker  is  packed  with  non-inflammable  material,  such  as  tninejul  wool  or 
aebealoB. 

Diredtwn*  for  making  a  firdotg  cooker  are  as  foUnws: 

(1)  Line  the  cajse  and  its  cover  with  sheet  asbestos  of  l/S  inch  thicknon; 
(2)  Pack  into  the  Ixittom  of  the  oebefltofl-lined  case' a  layer  at  least  3  inches 
deep  of  whatever  ^lacking  material  is  to  be  used,  (3)  Place  the  bucket 
that  is  to  form  the  tH>okinK  eomimrtment  on  the  lajrer  of  pai^'Jiing  material 
in  the  Itottom  of  1  he  case.  Pack  the  aptice  Ix^twwn  the  ca»e  and  the  cooking 
compartment  closely  with  mon»  of  this  material,  filling  the  space  to  within 
l^  inch  from  the  top  of  the  bucket,  (4)  Make  a  collar  of  imy  of  the  ma- 
terials suggested,  tf)  eover  the  exposed  surface?  of  thf  jmeking  material  Ije- 
tween  the  caAi»  and  the  cooking  compartment.  (5)  Make  a  cushion  of  some 
of  the  materials  suggested,  which  when  filled  with  the  packing  material 
will  be  at  leiist  three  inches  thick,  and  will,  i\s  exactly  as  poesible,  fit  into 
the  space  l*etween  the  top  <if  the  ecH^king  com[>artment  and  the  top  of  the 
case.  Cut  from  the  material  txvo  pit^oes  of  the  desired  slia|ie  tmd  size,  and 
put  them  together  with  a  straight  strip  of  the  desinnl  width,  with  extra 
allowance  for  seams. 

The  interior  of  the  fireless  cooker  should  ho  kept  absolutely 
clean.  It  sliouid  be  washed,  driinJ,  and  sunned,  if  ix>ssible,  each 
time  after  l>cing  usett  It  should  remain  open  for  several  hours 
after  use,  and  it  should  never  be  tightly  closed  when  not  in  use. 
The  observance  of  these  precautions  prevents  the  food  from 


I 


I 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS  217 


I 


acquirinK  ao  unpleasant  taste  from  odavH  or  remnants  of  food 
previously  eooked. 

For  convenience,  all  equipment  to  i>e  iis(k1  in  connection  with 
the  cooker,  sucli  lis  hot  plates,  hooks^  racks,  and  cooking  uten- 
sils, should  he  kept  near  ttio  cooker.  A  shelf,  a  cupboard,  or  an 
iniproviseti  cal>inet  made  from  a  box  may  serve  as  a  convenient 
storage  place. 

The  cooker  itself  should  Ik*:  placed  near  the  stove,  both  to 
prevent  unneccssury  loss  of  heat  in  transferring  the  food  from 
the  stove  to  the  cooker  and  to  save  labor  on  the  part  of  the 
worker. 

The  Roapstone  radiators,  when  not  in  use,  nmy  be  kept  warm 
on  the  Ijack  of  tlic  stove  or  in  the  sun  in  order  to  reduce  the 
length  of  time  required  to  bring  tliem  to  the  dtjsired  temperature    ^ 
when  they  are  needed.  ■ 

The  fireless  cooker,  like  any  other  piece  of  equipment,  should 
be  used  intelligently  in  order  that  the  best  results  may  be  oI> 
tained.  As  previously  stated,  for  certain  cooking  processes 
and  under  certain  conditions,  it  may  be  no  more  economical  ^ 
in  fuei,  time,  or  lal)or,  than  is  tlic  ordinary  range;  therefore,  ■ 
firelcss  cookeiy  should  l)c  studied  carefully  liy  the  housewife 
in  order  that  she  may  tlLscover  its  best  applications.  A  few 
experiments  with  various  kintls  of  foods,  based  on  recipes 
adapted  to  the  use  of  a  fireless  cooker,  are  necessary  in  order 
to  p:ive  one  the  desired  mastery. 

The  efficiency  of  insulation,  the  quantity  of  food,  and  the 
rapidity  of  the  transfer  from  the  stove  to  the  cooker,  influence 
the  length  of  tune  required  for  the  cooking.  The  tem]x*raturc  ■ 
to  which  the  radiator  is  heated  also  determines  to  a  certain  " 
extent  the  length  of  time  the  food  shouUl  remain  in  the  cooker. 
The  period  that  j^ives  the  bc^st  rc^sults  is  more  or  less  definite 
for  ench  focMl.  However,  since  individual  tastes  differ,  definite 
statements  in  rt»gard  t-o  the  requireil  time  should  be  verified  for 
each  household. 

Care  should  be  given  to  correct  proportions^  because  there  in 
no  opportunity  for  the  evaporation  of  excess  moisture  in  the 
cooker. 


I 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Foods,  surli  as  pan'bakes,  that  roquirR  rapid  cooking  over 
a  hof  fire,  are  not  well  suited  to  the  firelcHs-oooker  method* 
Biscuits  may  he  fiaked  sucrossfully  in  the  cooker^  but  since  the 
heat  roquirefl  to  raiso  the  radiators  to  the  proper  temperature 
will  bake  the  bis(*uit8  in  an  ordinary  oven,  there  seems  to  Ik*  no 
jusfi  Beat  ion  for  its  use  in  this  ease.  However,  for  fomls  that 
require  long  cooking  in  order  to  lie  ina<le  more  palatable  and 
digestible,  tlie  tireless  cooker  is  admirably  suited.  Cereals 
such  its  rolled  oats,  cracked  wheat,  atid  hominy,  give  excel- 
lent results  when  cooketl  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  in 
a  fireless  cooker  (page  .^<3).  The  tough  cuts  of  meM,  which 
require  long  cooking  at  a  low  temperature  in  order  to  be  made 
palatable  are  good  when  properly  cooked  in  a  fireless  cooker. 
Steamed  brcjids  and  puddings  aiv  welt  adapted  to  this  method. 

Hot  beverages  and  saucers  nuty  Ix?  .set  aside  in  the  c<x»ker  to  be 
kept  hot  for  serving. 

The  use  of  the  fireless  cooker  for  canning  fruits  is  recom- 
mended by  some.  The  juices  of  fruits  may  l>e  satisfactorily 
extracted  for  jelly-making.  Varif>us  iMjndittons,  however,  do- 
termiiie  the  practicaiiih ty  of  its  use  for  tliis  purpose. 

As  a  means  of  enaljling  one  to  have  warm  water  at  hand 
without  keeping  a  fire,  the  firelens  cooker  is  of  use  in  homei* 
where  there  is  no  boiler  connected  with  the  range,  and  especi* 
ally  when  the  fuel  used  is  coal  or  wood,  which  necessitates 
building  a  fire. 

Tables  of  pmportions  and  hme  of  cooking  fooils  in  a  fireless 
cooker  are  given  in  Table  XIV  on  page  219. 


Thermos  boiiJes, 

Thernios  in>ttlcs  may  be  used  iis  miniature  fireless  cookers 
for  a  small  aniouiit  of  cereal  or  other  food  requiring  long,  slow 
(cooking. 


I 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS 


219 


TABLE  XIV. — Time-Table  for  Use  with  a  Fireless  Cooker 


Food 


Cereals: 

Corn-meal 

Cracked  wheat 

Cream-of-wheat 

Farina 

Hominy  grits 

Macaroni 

Rice 

Rolled  oats 

Vegetables: 

Beans,   dried   (soaked  and 
cooked  in  the  same  waU*r) 

Beans,  string 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Onions 

Potatoes 

Dried  fruits: 

Apples 

Apricots 

Peaches 

Prunes  (soaked  and  cookcnJ 

in  the  same  water) 

Meats: 

Beef,  boiled 

Beef,  pot  roast 

Chicken,  stewed 

Ham,  !x)iled 

Mutton,  leg  or  shoulder, 
boiled 

Mutton  stew 

Breads  and  puddings: 

Brown  bread 

Cup  custard,  steamed 

Suet  pudding 


Propor- 
tion of 
food  to 
looter 


1  to  6 
1  to  5 
1  to6 
1  to7 
1  to  5 
1  to4 
1  to  4 
1  to  3 


1  to  4 
1  to  1 
1  to  1 
1  to  1 
1  to  1 
1  to  1 

1  to2 
1  to  2 
I  to  2 

1  to  2 


Minutes 
for  boiling 
on  iheaUwe 


10 
25 
5 
5 
15 
5 
5 
5 


15 
30 
30 
20 

20 
10 

30 

30 


Hours 
in  the 
cooker 


6  or  all  night 
8  or  all  night 
2  or  all  night 

2  or  all  night 
8  or  all  night 
2 

2 

3  or  all  night 


6  or  more 
2 

IH 
2 
2 
2 

4  or  all  night 
4  or  all  night 
4  or  all  night 

4  or  all  night 

3 
5 
3 
7 

6 
4 

5 
I 
5 


CHAPTER  IX 


METHODS  OF  KEEPING  FOODS  COOL 

Some  of  the  niethocls  of  keepirig  foods  eool  that  were  used  by 
primitive  people  are  still  resorted  to,  sometimes  with  certain 
modifications.  The  use  of  vessels  f>ermittio^  evaixinition,  (he 
running  water  of  .streams,  eaves  or  holes  in  the  ground,  packing 
with  grasses,  all  have  lent  their  principles  to  more  elaborate 
eooling  methods  and  refrigerating  systems  of  to-day* 

Hefrigcrators. 

Ordinary  household  refrigerators,  even  of  the  best  make  with 
the  best  insulated  walls,  are  by  no  means  as  effective  in  saving 
ice  as  might  be  desired.  Three  points  to  consider  in  purchasing 
a  refrigerator  are  low  temperature^  dryness,  and  sanitation.  The 
low  temperature  is  ol>tained  by  ice  and  proper  insnhition*  The 
ice  eompartmcDt  shouJd  be  large  enough  to  hold  at  least  50 
or  75  pounds  of  ice  and  should  lie  kept  tilled  in  order  to  avoiti 
a  fluctuation  in  temyKTature  whicli  is  favorable  to  the  growth 
of  micro-orgahisios  that  cause  fowl  to  spoih  The  location  of 
the  ice  compartment  at  the  side  is  thought  to  Ix?  LK^tter  than 
across  the  entire  top.  The  dfxir  for  icing  is  perhaps  more  con- 
veuiect  at  the  side  than  on  the  top.  A  rear  icing-<loor  can  be 
made  at  a  very  smal!  additional  cost;  if  the  refrigerator  is  to  be 
placed  where  rear  icing  would  eliminate  much  tracking  across 
floors,  it  is  worth  considering. 

Insulation  is  accomplished  by  a  de^d  air  space  between  the 
outside  ca^  and  mineral  felt,  cork,  aslK?stos,  or  whatever 
insulating  material  is  used.  The  wood  should  Ije  of  such  a  kind 
that  it  will  not  warp.  There  should  be  no  wtxjd  where  water 
can  come  in  contact  with  it,  since  damp  wood  is  an  excellent 
place  for  micro-oi^anisms  to  lurk. 

There  should  be  a  gocxl  circulation  of  air  in  order  to  keep  the 

220 


I 


METHODS  OF  KEEPING  FOODS  COOL  221 

atmosphere  dry.  The  eold  air  from  around  the  ice  should  go  U 
the  bottom  of  the  refrigerator  aiul  then  travel  to  the  top  before 
it  a^ain  goe.s  over  the  ice:  the  inside  opeoings,  therefore,  should 
be  large  enough  at  the  bottom  and  the  top  to  permit  the  free 
passage  of  air. 

To  insure  good  sanitary^  conditions,  the  hning  must  be  of  such 
material  that  the  daily  cleaning  wilJ  lye  ea^sy^  and  there  must  be  fl 
as  few  seams  a«  possible  to  harljor  germs.  The  material  may  ™ 
be  galvanized  iron,  enamt^h  or  porcelain.  There  is  little  differ- 
ence in  cost  between  galvanized  iron  and  enamel;  the  enamet 
is  somewhat  easier  to  clean  that  the  galvanizeii  iron  and  wifch 
proper  care  we^ra  verj"  8atisfactorily.  Porcelain  is  perhaps  in 
many  w^ays  the  most  desirable  but  it  is  also  the  most  expensive. 
The  drainpipe  anil  shelves  should  be  easily  removable  in  order 
that  the}'  may  be  cleaned  frequently. 

To  make  the  best  use  of  a  refrigerator,*  such  foods  as  milk 
and  meat  should  be  placed  where  they  will  be  kept  coldest; 
generally  near  the  phice  the  air  leaves  the  iee-eharaber,  or 
directly  under  the  ice.  The  doors  shoulil  l)e  opened  seldom  and 
for  as  short,  a  time  as  possible.  The  ice  should  not  be  coveretl 
to  prevent  ita  melting,  since  only  by  melting  can  it  keep  food 
cool. 


Icdess  refrigerator. 

An  iccless  rcfngerator  depends  for  its  eflRcienry  on  the  cooling 
effect  of  evaporating  water.  An  ofien  framework  of  shelves 
is  surrounded  by  a  cloth  kept  moist  by  means  of  a  large  pan  of 
water  on  the  top.  A  good  ciuTent  of  air  to  evaporate  the  waiter 
is  essential.  The  refrigerator  will  work  wherever  the  cloth  will 
dry  readily^  but  it  must  Ix^  kept  in  a  shady  place  since  a  low 
temperature  is  the  main  object.  A  temperature  of  about  55°  F. 
can  be  maintaiiiefl. 

Directions  for  making  an  icelet^  refrigerator  are  as  follows 
(Fi^.  50,  51): 

Make  a  strong  set  of  shelvea  open  on  four  sides  with  a  solid  top  and 
bottom.     Raise  tt  on  short  legs.     Screen  this  on  three  sides,  and  fit  a 

♦  U.  S.  Bur.  Standards,  Circ.  65. 


I 


I 


I 

I 


I 


222 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


screen  docir  to  the  fourth  side.  The  efficiency  will  l3<?  laEreater  if  the  ghelvii 
and  the  bottom  are  made  of  reinforced  screening  to  allow  freer  circulation 
of  air. 

Cover  the  four  sidea  entirely  with  cnnton  flannel,  smooth  side  out,  but- 
toning it  closely  t^j  the  fraine.  This  may  Ik-  done  easily  by  aewinf^  buttons 
on  tape  and  tacking  thin  tn|>e  firmly  around  the  npiJer  edge  of  the  ease  on 
three  sides,  also  down  each  side  of  the  framework  next  the  d»xjr  and  cm  the 
upper  and  outer  edges  of  t!»e  door.    Allow  a  flap  of  flannel  to  extend  past 


FlQ.  50. — An  icelcss  rofrigcrator, 

the  outer  edge  of  the  itoor  to  l>e  buttone<l  over  on  the  framework.  It 
will  be  neeessary  to  unbutton  and  button  this  flap  when  opening  the  case. 
Make  buttonholes  in  the  flanne!  covering  etjr responding  to  the  buU-ona  on 
the  ease,  Around  the  Inp  of  the  eovering  aew  four  flaps  of  canton  flannel 
a  httle  narrower  than  eu(  h  nide  of  tbe  ra,sc  antl  large  criougli  to  exl(*nd  up 
over  the  top  and  dip  int4>  the  pnn  <jf  wat^T.  These*  wdl  serve  m  wiekf*  to 
keep  the  entire  surfart*  of  tlie  flatmel  moist.  If  tfa*  refrigerator  Lh  to  lio 
set  on  the  porch,  a  pan  must  l>e  [jlac^isJ  imderneath  the  rofrigemtiir  to 
cateh  the  water  that  drijjs  down. 

An  extra  flannel  eovering  ghould  tie  made  for  the  case  so  that  one  may 
Ije  washed  each  week. 


METHODS  OF  KEEPING  FOODS  COOL 


223 


It  is  desirable,  but  not  essential,  to  paint  the  case  with  enamel  paint.  A 
non-rusting  wire  must  be  used  for  the  screening. 

The  following  dimensions  are  suggested,  and  the  amount  of  material 
required  is  indicated. 

Height:  4  feet,  8  inches. 

Base:  24  inches  square. 

Space  between  shelves:  11  inches. 


Fig.  51. — Removable  canton  flannel  cover  for  the  refrigerator. 
The  buttonholes  are  placed  to  correspond  with  the  buttons 
on  the  framework. 

Materials:  3  yards  of  24-inch  opal  zinc  screen  wire,  1  pint  of  flat  coat 
white  paint  for  first  coat,  1  pint  of  white  enamel  paint  for  second  coat, 
50  feet  of  board  5^  x  3  inches  for  frame  and  door,  16  feet  of  board  1  x  12 
inches  for  4  shelves,  4  feet  of  l)oard  1  x  24  inches  for  top  and  bottom,  46 
feet  of  screen  molding,  2  hinges,  1  cabinet  catch,  2Ji  dozen  white  china 
buttons,  10  yards  of  white  cotton  tape,  nails,  tacks,  13  yards  of  30-inch 
canton  flannel  (two  covers). 


Unglazed  earthen  vessels* 

If  the  air  is  dr>%  evaporation  is  quite  rapid  even  when  wat«r 
is  cool.  Thus,  when  water  is  placed  in  a  slightly  porous  un- 
glazed earthen  vessel,  a  small  amount  constantly  filters  to  the 
outside  and  evaporates,  keeping  the  contents  several  degrees 

*  U.  S.  Bur.  Standards,  Circ.  55. 


224 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOMB-MAKINO 


cooler  than  the  surrounding  air.   This  device  in  various  forms 
has  been  used  for  hundreds  and  perhaps  thousands  of  years. 

Firdess  cooker. 

A  firdess  codcer  (page  214)  may  be  used  for  keeping  foods 
cod  as  well  as  hot,  since  proper  insulation  will  keep  the  heat 
out  as  well  as  in. 

Thermos  hctiU. 

A  thermos  bottle  is  a  conveni^it  way  of  keeping  a  small 
amount  of  food  cold.  A  wide-mouthed  bottle  can  be  used  for 
other  foods  than  liquids. 


CHAPTER  X 
KITCHEN  UTENSILS* 

While  wailing  for  the  clay  when  labor-savinp;  machinery  will 
be  the  rule  instead  of  the  exception,  nioch  can  be  done  by  selee- 
tion,  arrangement,  and  care  of  kitchen  t*tiuipnient  to  make 
work  easier  and  working  hours  shorter. 

Kitchen  iitenyiii*  should  not  be  selected  at  random  to  clutter 
.storage  space.  Only  those  articles  that  are  usetl  daily  or  at 
least  weekly  sliould  be  given  a  place  in  the  kitchen  i'Upboards. 
A  housekeeper  should  weigh  well  the  usefulnes^s  and  the  cost 
of  any  article  that  is  only  sekioni  to  be  taken  from  the  shelf. 
The  following  considerations  should  be  kept  in  mind  m  choosing 
kitchen  utensils:  Whether  the  utensil  is  all  that  it  is  adver- 
tise^Ll  to  lie;  whether  it  is  durable,  convenient  to  handle,  well 
balancerb  of  good  weight  for  its  purpose;  whether  a  handle  or  ■ 
a  bail  is  desirable;  whether  the  cover  is  good  for  the  purpose;  " 
whether  the  hp  of  the  utensil  is  on  the  proper  side  for  use; 
whether  the  utensil  is  ea^y  to  clean,  free  from  seams  and  cor- 
ners, free  from  rolled  runs,  rough  edges,  and  grooves;  whether 
the  utensil  is  of  the  proper  size  and  shape  for  the  amount  and 
kind  of  cooking  to  be  done;  whether  it  is  a  safe  receptacle  for 
food, 

UTENSILS  BEST  ADAPTED  TO  VARIOUS  COOKING  PROCESSES 

Baking. 

Cake. — Tin,  if  well  cared  for  (page  237) j  is  the  metal  best 
adapted  for  cake-making.  It  does  not  scorch,  heats  quickly 
to  the  point  at  which  the  leavening  agent  in  the  cake  becomes 
effective,  and  responds  rapidly  to  necessaiy'  regulation  of  tern- 

*  Adapto-r!  frfim  *"  Choice  and  Care  of  Utensiis  "  by  Ida  H.  llarriiigtsjii, 
Cornell  Reading  Cotir^e  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bulb  27. 

225 


MM 


226 


.4    MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKIXG 


|K*ratiiiT*  diiriiip  hakinj^,  Thr*  rniinf!  (in  wiMi  ji  hiho  in  the  ren- 
ter, known  1L8  :in  aiijcel-eake  tin,  prn( hires  tlie  most  level  and 
evenly  haked  cake,  owing  to  the  heat  reaehiii|^  tlie  eenter  of  the 
cake  as  soon  as  any  other  part,  and  the  *"puir'  hetwecn  nietul 
and  l>atter  hdng  more  even  at  every^  point  than  in  tins  of 
other  eonstmction.  A  plain  ronnd  tin,  not  too  deep,  gives 
the  next  hest  resuU;  a  square  tin  is  next,  while  an  oblong  tin 
reqyire8  very  earcful  regulation  of  heat  in  order  to  produce  a 
well-haked  cake. 

HremL — The  choice  of  utensils  for  bread  baking  lies  between 
tin  and  russia  iron  (a  sheet  iron  treated!  Iiy  a  [iroces^  that  orig- 
inated in  Russia,  having  a  tx>lished  blue-black  surfactO.  Since 
l)read  requires  a  hotter  oven  than  does  eake»  the  russia  iron 
pan  should  have  first  choice;  it  absorbs  more  heat  than  iIoe« 
tin»  is  less  afTcctc^J  by  high  temperature,  and  is  more  durable. 

Pie. — ExjM'riments  have  shown  that  in  liaking  the  lower 
crust  of  juicy  pies,  the  liest  results  are  obtaineti  !>y  the  use  of 
granite-ware  plates,  that  oltl  tin  plates  tire  next  in  order,  while 
perforated  and  wire  plates  come  tliird. 

Cookus. ^Cookies  are  l>est  leaked  on  russia  iron  sheets  cut 
to  fit  the  oven,  with  heavy  tin  sheets  as  second  choice.  The 
sheets  are  kept  in  better  condition  and  produce  more  delicate 
ix?«ults  if,  instead  of  lieing  greaseil  with  laitter  or  lard,  they 
are  warmed  and  rubiied  very  lightly  with  paraffin.  If  kept 
Bcmpulously  eleaii,  they  require  no  greasing. 

Cooking  of  meals. 

Roasia, — Roasts  require  a  high  temperature  at  the  start  in 
order  to  sear  the  surface;  for  this  rciison  I  lie  best  choice  is  a  pan 
of  iron  or  lugh-grade  granite  ware.  An  oval  pan  can  Ue  more 
carefully  eleanetl  than  one  with  sharp  corners.  There  is  leaa 
danger,  therefore,  if  this  shape  is  chosen,  that  parHcles  of  fat 
will  adhere  to  the  pan,  grow  rancid,  and  give  an  unpleasant 
odor  to  the  utensil  and  a  taint  to  the  food. 

Poi  roasts, — The  iron  kettle  with  light-fitting  cover,  called 
also  the  **  Dutch  oven/*  Ijest  supplies  the  stea<Iy  heat  that  a 


I 


I 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


227 


pot  roast  needs.  Althougii  a  casserole  may  he  iisetl,  or  a  bean 
pot  with  waxed  paper  tietl  tightly  over  the  top,  in  either  of 
these  there  i^s  more  evaiKjration  than  in  the  iron  kettle  and  the 
roast  is,  therefore,  drier,  although  jn.st  as  tender. 

Meat  Jitews. — Since  in  stews  more  lir|ui<t  is  aftded  than  in  pot 
roasts,  the  casserole  may  well  be  used,  or  a  shallow  aluminum 
or  graniteware  stewpan  with  close-fitting  eover,  straight  sides, 
and  ver\'  short  or  loop-shajwd  handles.  The  long,  slow  cook- 
ing may  thus  be  done  either  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove. 
In  hrowii  stews,  the  meat  is  first  sauteed  in  an  iron  pan  in  order 
to  give  the  desired  color  and  flavor, 

Stemifiij  ffuils  or  vegetable  a. 

Aluminum,  granite,  and  enamelware  are  equally  good  for 
stewing  fruits  and  vegetal »lcs.  A  wide,  shallow  type  of  sauce- 
pan, with  a  well-tit  ting  cover,  shouUI  be  selected  for  fruits  and 
for  such  vegetables  as  must  be  cooked  in  a  small  amount  of 
water:  while  a  deep  saucepan,  without  a  cover,  is  l>est  for  the 
cooking  of  strong-juiced  vegetables  that  need  a  large  amount  of 
water. 

SmtUing. 

A  rather  heavy  iron  or  steel  frying  pan  is  best  adapted  for 
this  purpose.  In  a  thin  pan,  or  in  one  of  grariiteware,  the  fat 
passes  too  soon  from  the  temperature  at  which  it  fonns  the  de- 
sired golden-brown  crust  on  the  food  to  be  (*ooke<l,  to  the  point 
where  it  begins  to  decompose  and  becomes  irritating  to  the  di- 
gestive tract. 

For  frying  in  deep  fat  an  iron  or  steel  frj'ing  kettle  is  best. 
It  may  be  bowl-shaf>ed,  or  it  may  have  straiglit  sides.  The 
latter  sha|ie  accc«nmodates  a  greater  numlier  of  articles  at  a 
time,  and  is  nu)re  convenient  for  use  with  a  wire  frying  basket. 
In  using  the  bowl-shapeil  kettle,  a  long-handled  skinuner  may 
be  more  convenient  for  removing  the  food.  Tlie  kettle  should 
be  deep^  so  that  when  it  is  two-thirds  full  of  fat  the  food  to  be 
cooked  will  be  entirely  iiruixersed. 


I 


I 
I 


I 


228  .1  MA^yUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

Candy-making, 

Profesi!iioniil  eon  feet  ioners  use  a  copper  kettle  conoected  with 
an  appanitua  that  niakra  a  partial  varuuni  in  the  kettle  and 
allows  the  8Uf(ar  to  Ijoil  at  a  lower  temperature  than  the  ordi- 
nary boihnj?  point,  thus  lessening  the  danger  of  scorehing  tlie 
sugar.  For  the  home  c*an*ly*rnakcr,  altmiinuni  is  the  liest  suIj- 
Rtitute  for  copper  as  a  ("onflurtor  of  lieat.  8irup  boiled  in  an 
aluminum  kettle  rarely  scorches,  and  the  srnf>oth  surface  makes 
it  easy  to  keep  the  sides  wiped  free  from  sugar  crystals  as  they 
form, 

JeUy^making, 

Enamel  or  granitcware — unless  there  is  a  defwt  in  the  enamel 
finish — makes  the  best  utensil  for  jelly-making,  l>t^.*ause  of  the 
ease  with  which  it  may  be  cleanetl  and  the  certainty  that  it 
will  not  be  affected  l>y  the  acid  of  fruit  juices. 

SPECIAL  UTENSILS  AND  EQUIPMENT 

Knives, 

The  assortment  of  knives  should  include  a  bread  knife, 
butcher's  knife,  vegetable  knife,  a  knife  with  a  waved  edge 
for  cutting  fresh  bread  and  cake,  and  a  spatula.  The  mo«t  dur- 
al>le  knife  is  a  haml-forged  one  in  which  the  steel  extends,  tlat 
and  unnarrowed,  to  the  end  of  the  handle,  and  is  fastened  to 
it  by  rivets  of  steel,  copptT,  or  brass.  Strength  is  lost  if  the 
steel  extends  only  half  the  length  of  the  handle.  In  the  cheapest 
setting,  known  as  the  '*  twang/'  the  steel  is  narrowctl  to  a  point, 
pushed  into  the  handle,  and  fiustencil  liv  adliesion.  Tliis  Ls  the 
kind  of  handle  that  is  surt*  to  come  off  at  the  most  inconvenient 
time,  Handles  of  Ijeech  or  birch  wootl  wear  best.  Rubber 
handles  are  unpractical  because  they  shrink,  swell,  and  burn. 
Ivory»  fx»arl,  or  I  tone  handles  are  likely  to  blacken  or  l>ecome 
loosenetl  if  they  are  put  in  water. 

Egg-bcakrs, 

Different  types  of  egg-l»eatei-s  are  uctM^letb  according  to  the 
consistency  desired  in  the  lH?aten  whites.     For  all-round  use, 


I 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS  229 

the  dover  egg-beater  is  a  good  choice  because  it  works  most 
quickly.  It  is  operated  liy  tiiniing  a  wheel,  without  being 
lifted  from  the  eggs  to  bo  beaten,  and  hence  Ijcata  in  compara- 
tively little  air  and  gives  a  fine,  close  texture,  (-)ne  should  bo 
selected  in  which  the  cogs  do  not  ''interfere."  The  balloon- 
shaped  egg-whisk  made  of  piano  wire  carries  more  air  into 
the  moisture,  and  the  flat  wire  beater  gives  the  airiest  texture 
of  all.  Either  of  the  latter  types  is  preferable  to  the  dover  egg- 
heater  for  angel  cake,  sponge  cake,  or  meringues  where  Ught- 
ness  is  more  desirable  than  fineness  of  grain. 

Sjjoons, 

Spfjona  of  hard  wood  should  be  used  whenever  possible; 
they  are  lighter  than  metal  ones,  do  not  discolor  the  hand,  make 
less  noise,  and  lIo  not  scratch  metal  surfaces.  For  basting 
roasts,  or  whenever  a  specially  strong  spot^n  is  iieeiled^  a  tinned 
iron  spoon  is  good.  Enamel  spoons  are  not  practical,  as  they 
are  Ukely  to  bend  and  crack  the  enaiueL 

Brushes. 

If  brushes  are  used  in  connection  with  food— that  is,  for 
greasing  pans  or  for  brushing  rolls  or  pastry  with  butter,  egg, 
or  milk— they  must  be  of  a  kind  that  can  be  cleaned  with  boil- 
ing water.  This  is  impossible  if  the  liristles  are  glued  in.  The 
bristles  should  he  strong  ami  pliable  (Russia  or  Chinese  bristles 
are  best)  and  should  bo  bound  to  the  handle  with  twine  rather 
than  with  metal.  A  shaving  brush  of  badger  hair  is  really  better 
adapteti  to  the  purpose  than  any  l>rush    s{)ecially  designed. 

Small  wooden-backed  brushes  are  indispensable  for  the  proper 
cleaning  of  vegetables,  for  brushing  grated  lemon  rind  from  the 
grater,  and  for  many  other  purposes.  A  small  poker  heateti  red 
hot  can  be  usxxl  to  mark  on  the  backs  of  the  brushes  the  pur- 
poses for  which  they  are  to  be  liscmJ.  A  round  pitcher-  or  bottle- 
brush,  and  a  long  wire-handled  trap-brush  for  the  refrigerator, 
are  sanitary  necessities. 

DQuble  boilers, 

A  double  Ijoiler  should  be  selected  with  a  lower  part  suffi- 


I 


I 


230 


A  MANUAL  or  HOME-MAKING 


4 


I 


ciently  large  to  hold  a  quantity  of  water  that  will  not  mon  boil 
away. 

Paper. 

Heavy  absorl)ent  lirowii  paper,  on  a  roller,  such  as  is  usetl  in., 
meal  oiarkcts,  is  a  great  kiti'heo  help.  In  breading  eutlets  or\ 
making  erotpiettes,  ff>r  example,  the  table  or  the  rolling  bourd 
may  be  revered  with  ]>a|jer  and  the  l>rea<I  crumbs  empticHl  on  it 
After  the  crtxiuettes  are  breaded,  the  crumbs  may  be  remov(*d 
and  the  same  paper  used  for  draining  the  croquettes  when  they 
are  fricHh  It  may  afterwards  he  folded  up  antl  hnrneil,  or  givea 
a8  a  titiiit  to  the  cliickens,  in  either  ease  saving  tlie  washing  of  a. 
mixture  of  egg  and  bread  emmbs  from  the  rolling  l>oard. 

Waxed  paper,  so  essential  for  putting  up  lunches,  lining  cake 
tins,  and  covering  food  in  the  refrigerator,  may  also  be  obtained 
on  rollers  or  in  sheets. 

Covered  papt^r  pails^  lined  with  waxed  paper,  are  useful  for 
storing  diy  left-overs.     Paper  cups,  plates,  and  napkins  are  a — 
welcome  help  in  the  picnic  lunch  or  the  grange  supper.    The! 
plates  may  be  bought  with  linings,  or  *' insets/'  which  may  be 
replaces  I  by  clean  ones  for  a  second  course.    Folding  paper  cups 
should  be  a  part  of  every  scht>ol  lunch  or  traveler's  out  lit.         ■ 

Fiber  pails,  washbowls,  and  tubs  are  useful  because  of  their  ■ 
lightness,  and  with  careful  handling  they  will  last  a  long  time. 
Breaks  in  the  finish  may  be  mended  l>y  filling  with  a  little  putty, 
covering  this  with  a  piece  of  sttait  cotton  doth,  and  holding  the 
whole  together  with  oil  paint  to  match  the  finish. 

Wooden  skcii>€rs  and  iooihpi(Jcs. 

For  testing  cake,  wooden  toothpicks  are  as  good  as  broom 
8tra%V8  and  much  cleaner.  Skewers  are  helpful  in  cleaning 
corners,  or,  covertKl  with  S€'veral  thicknesses  of  cheet^^'loth^ 
in  keeping  free  from  crystals  the  sides  of  the  saucepan  in  w^hich 
sugar  is  being  boiletl  down. 


I 


ARRANGEMENT   OF   UTENSILS 

The  best -selected!  utensils  may  fail  in  usefulness  if  arranged 
awkwardly.    Although  '*  stacking"  Is  not  the  menace  to  kitchen 


I 


d 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


utensils  that  it  is  to  tahlpware,  it  calls  for  many  unnecessary 
motions,  esperialiy  if  the  utensil  sought  Is  the  lowest  one  in  the 
slurk.  Utensils  in  remilur  use  are  best  hung  on  laniaLl  brass 
hooks  in  the  wall^  eaeh  article  havinisf  a  separate  hook*  They 
should  hanjBf  bottom  side  out,  so  as  to  protect  the  inside  from 
(lust^  and  should  be  within  easy  reach  of  the  Imnd.  If  there 
is  sufficient  space  for  some  definite  system  of  arrangement — 
whereby,  for  example,  the  largest  utensils  hang  at  tlie  left  and 
the  utensils  decrease  in  size  toward  the  right— it  will  improve 
the  appearance  of  the  kitchen  and  make  it  possible  to  reach 
mechanically  the  tool  needed,  without  expending  thought  on 
its  whereabouts. 

Whatever  is  kept  in  storage  cupboards  should  be  so  arranged 
as  to  be  easy  of  access^  easy  to  keep  acconnt  of,  easy  to  keep  in 
order,  and  easy  to  note  the  condition  of.  The  average  cupboard 
shelves  are  too  far  apart.  Shallow  shelves  that  accommodate 
only  one  or  two  rows  of  utensils,  easily  seen  and  reached,  will 
save  many  searehingg  (Plate  XI).  Covers  are  conveniently 
stored  behirifl  ril)s  of  wood  nailed  to  avail al)le  wall  space  or  to 
a  cupboard  door.  Arrangement  according  to  size  will  again  be 
found  a  great  saving  of  time.  A  canvas  or  leather  pocket, 
divided  off  in  a  way  similar  to  a  traveler's  case  or  shoe-bag,  is 
a  convenient  place  for  the  cook's  knives,  each  one  slipping  into 
its  own  division  and  being  safer  and  easier  to  lind  than  when 
in  a  kitchen  drawer  filled  with  misceUaneous  articles. 

HOW  TO  PREPARE  NEW  UTENSILS  FOR  USE 

Iron  J  tin,  and  enamelware, — It  is  a  general  custom  to  prepar^ 
a  new  iron  utensil  for  use,  after  thorough  cleaning,  by  Ril>bing 
unsalted  fat  over  it  and  baking  the  fat  in.  The  same  treatment 
is  adapted  to  tin,  for,  while  it  destroys  its  shiny  new  appearance, 
it  protects  the  tin  from  rust  antl  increases  its  capacity  for  liold- 
ing  heat.  Another  way  is  to  eoat  the  kettle  witii  fat  outside 
and  inside  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  two  days.  It  should  then 
be  cleaned  in  a  solution  of  washing-soda  (page  235).  Enamel- 
ware  is  said  to  be  protected  from  cracking  and  chipping  if  it 
16  well  rubbed  with  fat  before  being  used  for  the  hrst  time;  the 


I 


A   MAiWAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Uii,  however^  cannot  be  baked  in  as  with  tin  and  iron,  since  it 
would  not  be  absorbed  but  only  burned  fast  to  the  glaze, 

Gla^s. — ^Tumblers,  jai-s,  and  lamp  chimneys  may  be  tough- 
ened i>y  being  placed  in  a  kettle  of  cold  %vater  which  ia  brought 
gradually  to  the  Ijoiling  poiot.  After  being  lioiled  for  a  few 
iiiinntes  they  should  l)e  allowed  to  cool  gradually  in  the  water. 

Machinenj, — Egg-beaters,  ice  cream  freezers,  and  other 
utensils  in  which  there  is  friction  between  two  parts,  should  be 
carefully  oiled  before  being  used,  the  wheels  tunRni  until  the 
oil  has  reached  everv^  pti rt,  and  all  surplus  oil  wiped  off  before 
the  utensil  ia  used  for  footL 

HOW   TO   PROTECT  METALS   NOT  IN    USE 

If  the  house  is  to  be  closefl  for  a  time,  or  if  for  any  other 
reason  utensils  are  to  Im?  set  aside,  all  metals  should  l*e  pro- 
tect c*tl  from  dampness  by  a  coating  of  vaseHne,  paraffin,  or  nn- 
salted  fat  of  some  kind* 


MATERIALS  AND   THEIR   CARE 

The  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  various  materials 
used  in  kitchen  utensils,  together  with  their  care,  may  be 
suoimed  up  as  follows: 

Aluminum 
Advantages: 

1.  The  utensils  arc  JiKht. 

2.  They  are  generally  seamless. 

3,  They  hold  the  heat  lonRer  than  do  some  of  the  other  materials,  evea 
thou|;h  they  are  somewlmt  fIow  in  heating* 

4,  They  are  durable. 

5,  ¥imt\  IS  less  likely  to  burn  in  utensils  of  aluminum  than  in  those  of  aome 
other  metals,  and  if  it  does  Ijurn,  the  kettle  is  generally  more  easily  cleaned. 

6.  Aluminum  uU-nsik  are  generally  made  in  good  shapeSt 
1,  AJaminum  does  not  rust* 

8,  It  does  not  chip.  

DisadvaniaQt&: 

1.  Aluminum  discolors  eaaiij* 

2.  It  is  expensive* 

3.  Acid  foods  should  not  1m?  allowed  to  remain  for  any  great  length  of 
time  in  aluminum,    8o  little  aluminum  is  dissolved  in  oouking  the  ordinary 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


acid  foods,  that  its  use  for  this  purpose  is  no  longer  conaidered  a  bad  prac- 
tice. 

General  care: 

L  Scour  alumimim  with  on!y  mild  abrasives,  mich  as  whiting  or  lx>n 
ami,  since  it  is  a  soil  metal  and  scratches  easily.    Steel  wool  may  be  used, 

2.  Wash  alumimmi  with  neutral  soap  jjnd  water,  since  an  fJkaline  soap 
or  cleansing  substance  will  tit  tack  the  metab  Add  a  small  amount  of 
ammonia  water,  and  polish  the  utensil  with  wliiting  occasionally. 

3.  Remove  dents  with  a  wooden  mallet. 

4-  Cook  foods  containing  weak  acids,  such  as  sour  milk,  tart  applet, 
iomatoes»  or  weak  vinegar  in  alumiaum  utensila  to  remove  the  tarnish  tliat 
appears  with  common  use. 

Special  care: 

1.  To  remove  burnt  food^  soak  the  kettle  in  hot  water,  use  a  wooden 
spoon  instead  of  metal  to  scrape  it  off,  or  if  necessarj*  boil  water  m  the  kettle. 

2.  The  c<jar»cr  abriisivea  may  l>c  used  on  bad  stains,  but  the  aluminum 
will  be  scratched. 

3.  For  a  kettle  in  very  bad  condition,  use  an  oxalic  acid  soJution  in  the 
pruiKirtion  of  4  tablespoon!?  of  oxalic  acid  crj'staLs  (poison)  to  1  gallon  of 
water.  Allow  the  cold  solution  to  tstund  in  tlje  kettle  overnight,  or  boil 
it  in  the  kettle  for  not  more  than  five  minutes.  W'a^h  the  kettle  thoroughly 
wilh  .soap  and  water  before  using  it.  Care  must  Ijc  exercised  in  hand- 
ling the  solution  since  it  is  a  very  poisonous  substance. 

Cftpper 
Adixinlngcs: 

1.  Cop[>cr  utensils  are  durable. 

2.  They  are  attracti%^e  in  appearance. 

3.  Copper  is  an  excellent  conductor  of  heat, 

DisadvarUageic 

1.  Copper  utensils  are  heavy. 

2.  They  are  expeni^ive.  

3.  They  are  dangerous  to  uae  for  cooking  unless  they  are  kept  scrupu- 
lously clean. 

4.  They  rcfpiire  much  cleaning. 

5.  Acid  foods  must  not  l^  allowed  to  stand  in  copper. 

General  cure: 

1.  Copper  utensils  should  be  kept  clean  by  thoroygh  washing  in  hot 
BOapsuds. 

2.  They  must  be  kept  bright,  l>ocause  the  tarnish  is  easily  soluble  in 
weak  acid.s  and  forms  a  poisonous  compound. 

3.  If  not  stainedj  cfip[>er  is  best  brightened  witli  rottenstone  or  tripolt 
mod  sweet  oil 


I 
I 


I 


234 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Speciai  care: 

1.  Wush  the  utensil  with  a  Boluiion  of  washing;  snda  In  frmove  |trrri«i*» 

2.  Remove  the  tfirnish  from  c<)pfx.*r  with  a  weak  mkl,  such  its  ox«li*% 
cre-am  of  tartar,  vinegar,  lemon  juice^  or  tlie  arid  of  8«jur  milk.  Tlic  ncHl 
should  be  completely  rinsed  off  with  water,  and  the  utensil  ruljl>CHl  wilh 
whiting,  i^inre  any  acid  remiiining  on  it  wiU  cause  it  to  tarnish  the  more 
quickly. 

3.  Scour  the  utcnsiJ  with  vinegar  and  salt.  Wash  it  at  onoe  and  poU^h 
it  with  trijKjli  and  sweet  oil. 

4.  Use  rottenetone  and  oili  and  foUow  this  with  dry  whiting,  rottenstone^ 
or  trifjoU. 

5.  Use  ammonia  water ^  and  wash  it  off  thoroughly,  since  the  compound 
formed  is  poi^nous. 

Enamelware 
Admr^OQeB: 

1.  Enaniclware  its  light. 

2.  It  is  ciisily  cleaned. 

3.  It  rudiittes  heat  readily, 

4.  It  is  fdirly  dunihle, 

5.  It  is  rH»t  afTertrd  |>y  fofnl  arids. 

6.  It  has  a  clean,  attractive  appearance. 
Diwitlm  fittiJQes: 

1.  Enamclwaro  must  l>e  handled  almost  as  carefully  »«  ghiss  to  prevent 
chipping,  Ciranite  and  enamel  ware  are  made  by  coating  sheet  ir<jn  tir 
steel  Mtenaib  with  an  eminiel  or  gla^e, 

2.  It  do(>8  not  withstand  smldeu  changes  of  temperature,  audi  a«  being 
placed  over  a  direct  flame  that  gives  intense  hejit. 

3.  It  rannot  \^  u.sihI  for  stnmg  alkaliK. 

4»  Home  cheap  enamels  eontaiii  lead  eomfjounds  which  are  sohjhle  in 
vinegar  and  fruit  acid.^  and  give  rise  to  the  danger  of  lend  jK>iHonitig.  A 
simple  tefst  is  lo  let  a  l>catcn  egg  st^ind  in  the  utensil  for  a  few  minutes. 
If  it  tjeconie.^  di^^olored,  lead  is  probably  present. 

General  care: 

1.  Wash  eiiamelware  in  hot  soapsuds.  Clean  any  seanis  with  a  wooden 
toothpick  or  skewer. 

2.  Remove  ordinary  8t4iin8  with  sapolio  or  Dutch  cleanser. 

3.  To  remuve  food  that  Iuuh  lieen  burnt  on,  place  a  small  amount  of 
fat  in  the  dish,  warm  it  gently,  and  scrape  off  the  burned  particles. 

Special  atrr": 

If  greasy  fixxl  is  so  k'ully  burned  on  an  enamelware  utensil  that  none  of 
the  general  melhc^lH  of  cleiiriing  has  any  cfTn-t,  strt^ng  acida  may  lie  XM^'^i, 
althoiiglj  emimelwnre  shcnild  not  Iw  e\jM*cttM|  tr*  U*  \mnti  against  them. 
Place  a  few  drops  of  25  f>er  cent  sulphuric  acid  in  the  pan  atid  add  a  few 
drops  of  25  per  cent  hydrochloric  acid.     Bo  exceedingly  careful  not  to 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


allow  f  hf  acids  to  Kt't  on  the  haini«  or  dotliing.  An  tmoii  ns  Ifjo  iiciils  begin 
t<>  fume,  neutralize  them  by  uddinR  ammonia  water,  iJour  them  off,  wash 
tln'  ijtrnsil  tliorouKlilVp  and  flush  tlic  drampijx!  weil,  rinsing  it  at  liLst  with 
boiling  water. 

Iron  ami  aUd 
AdvaTUagen: 
t.  Iron  utensils  aro  strong  and  durable. 

2.  Thciy  hold  heat  welL 

3.  They  endure  intense  heat. 

4.  They  are  relatively  inexpensive. 

5.  Tljcy  iKH'omo  s^mooth  with  lon^  use  and  are  then  not  hard  to  clean 
fi.  They  make  an  even  heat  ijoswihli?  and  are  consequently  excellent  for 

frying.    Russia  iron  is  u  good  sheet  iron  for  roasting  and  baking. 

DuadiHintngea : 

L  Iron  utensils  should  not  be  used  for  cooking  acid  foods, 

2.  They  art*  heavy. 

3.  They  mat  readily. 

(kntftd  care: 

1.  Iron  uteiisilK  nuist  be  kept  smooth  and  free  from  rust,  whirh  means 
that  they  must  be  ki'pt  tiry. 

2.  Wai*h  them  thnruu^hly  in  hot  soapsuds. 

3.  Use  a  wire  dish  t,'lt>{h  to  reinuve  fo<jd  that  has  been  burnt  on. 

4.  To  prei^'r\'e  the  temper  of  sfeel  knives,  avoid  tin*  praelir*'  nf  beating 
\\w  blade  on  top  of  the  stuve  in  order  to  facihtale  eiitting  fre*<h  !)r<*ad  cjr 
cuke.  Allowing  hot  water  to  run  over  the  blade  aeeompbshea  the  same 
purpose  without  injury  to  the  knife. 

5.  Never  allow  the  eoRs  of  an  egg-beater  or  ice  erejun  fr<H*^er  to  Ix?  eov- 
ered  with  water,  jsinn*  thej^  eanntit  l>e  perfectly  dried  and  therefore  they 
become  roughened  and  clogged  with  rust. 

Special  dtaning: 

1.  To  clean  iron  nten.*<ib  thoroughly,  boil  them  occasionally  in  a  solution 
of  waahing-stKla  made  in  the  proportion  of  6  qniirt.s  of  cold  water  to  1  pound 
of  WBBhing'^K)da,  rin.se  then>  with  i>oiling  water,  and  dry  them  thoroughly 
over  heat  Ix^fore  putting  them  away.  Use  some  8<_^ouriug  powder  after 
rinsing  them,  if  necessary. 

2.  If  iron  utensils  are  to  be  put  away  for  some  time  they  ahonid  be  m 
coate<l  with  panifhn  or  unsalted  fat.  ■ 

3.  If  rust  i«  not  too  thick  it  may  be  removed  by  scouring  the  utensil,  " 
iron  or  steel,  with  tiath  brink  or  hue  emery  and  rubbing  it  with  kerosi^nc  or 
by  allowing  kerosene  to  remain  on  it  for  some  time  to  soften  the  rust  and  h 
then  scouring  it  with  bath  brick.  fl 

4.  If  a  utensil  ia  badly  riLsted^  apply  dilute  hydrochloric  acid,  add  am*  " 
moDia  water  to  neutralixe  the  acid^  wash  the  utensil,  dr>'  it,  and  oil  it. 


I 


236 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


5.  Sftour  stcci  knives  with  hath  hrirk  or  sorrio  girnilar  material  aftor 
ibey  have  bepji  wiu^hr<l  iind  rinstxl  but  not  wiimhJ.  R*^t  the  knife  l>ladc 
on  a  board,  dip  a  inoixlrncd  t-ork  into  the  acoyring  powder^  and  apply  it 
to  the  blade,  riiljttinf?  it  until  the  atain  has  disappeared.  Rinse  the  knife 
thoroughly  and  wipe  it  dry. 

Adminlagen: 

1.  Nickel-plated  utensils  are  durable. 

2.  They  are  easily  kept  clean  and  bri^t. 

3.  They  do  not  ruat. 

tHsadvafUoQes: 

L  Niekel-plated  utensils  are  heavy. 

2.  They  are  e.\i>ensive. 

Genera!  care: 

Wjish  nii'kel  utenails  in  hot  soapsuds  and  rinse  them  in  very  hot  water. 

Special  care: 

1.  Polish  nickel  with  a  paste  made  of -lard  and  whiting. 

2,  Apply  whiting  nioist^'ned  with  ammonia  or  alcijhol,  and  polish  the 
utenail  with  wjft  cotton  waste. 

PoUeru 
Porerlain,  stoneware,  antl  earthenware  have  eliiy  for  n  foundation,  hut 
differ  in  appearance  and  ijuality  acr(>r*iinK  to  the  tinent^s  *if  the  elay  used, 
the  kind  of  gla^e  applied,  and  the  length  of  time  taken  for  tiring, 

AtimnktifeH: 

L  Pottery  uteniiila  are  excellent  for  slow,  even  c?ooking  in  even  heat, 
such  sks  alow  baking, 

2.  They  can  be  used  for  both  oookiiig  and  serving  fcMxl  and  therefore  save 
dishwashing. 

3.  The  good  grades  arc  nonabsorbent, 

4.  Pottery  utensils  are  comparatively  cheap. 

5.  They  are  relatively  durable. 

6.  They  arc  easy  to  clean  unlcsa  they  are  cracked, 

D%mdt^ni4iffes: 

Pottery  utensils  are  not  good  for  use  over  direct  heat  that  is  unateady 
or  intense,  such  as  on  top  of  a  stove. 

General  cart: 

i.  Pottery  utensilK  should  be  kept  exee«'dingly  clean, 

2.  If  they  are  allowetl  to  dry  without  being  wiped,  they  should  be 
rinscfl  in  very  hot,  clean  water  to  prevent  their  iMM-ouung  covered  with  a 
thin  film  which  in  time  spoils  the  glaze. 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


Siiver  or  plated  silver 
Advaniagcft: 

1,  Silver  is  an  excellent  conductor  of  heat. 

2.  It  do^  not  tarulBh  readily. 
Disadvantages: 

1.  Stiver  is  too  costly  for  ordinary  U8<?,  although  plated  silver  is  used  to 
a  limited  extent  in  baking  dishes  and  the  likc. 

2.  It  becomes  tarnished  if  sulphur  is  aUowed  to  touch  it. 
General  care: 
Wash  silver  in  hot  soapy  water,  rinse  it  thoroughly  in  clear  hot  water, 

and  wipe  it  with  a  clean  dry  cloth. 
Special  care: 

1.  lTr*e  a  brush  in  cleaning  raised  patterns. 

2.  To  rt'tiiove  tarnish,  \\m  silver  polish  according  to  directions  given 
on  the  package,  or  use  whiting  moistened  with  ivkohol^  ammonia  water,  or 
Waaler.  Rul>  in  the  paste^  allow  it  to  dry,  and  rul>  it  off  with  a  soft  eloth, 
chamois  skin,  or  tissue  paper.  Scald  the  silver.  Tins  method  gives  a  bur- 
nishes! apjHnirance.  fl 

3.  Boil  the  silver  unli!  the  tarnish  is  removed,  in  an  enamelware  kettle  f 
contiiining  a  pieee  of  aluminum  and  a  solution  made  of  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  teaspfion  of  cither  washing  or  baking  soda,  and  1  cjuart  of  water.  Alum- 
inum kettles  of  any  value  for  cooking  should  not  be  usrd^  since  ttie  process 
corrodes  them  cjuit^kly,  A  f>ircc  of  zine  is  sooH'times  ust^d  in  place  of 
aluminum,  but  it  heeomejs  corroded  and  inactive  in  a  much  shorter  time. 
This  method  given  a  satin  finish  rather  than  the  burnished  appearance 
obtained  by  an  alirasive  silver  polish.  This  elect  roly tie  method,  however^ 
cau8i:!fl  no  loss  of  tiietal  and  requires  lei«  time.  It  may  be  desirable,  there- 
fore, to  use  the  sohition  with  alum i mi m  as  frequently  as  it  is  necessary  to 
remove  tarnish,  and  the  abrasive  poli^sh  occasionally  to  restore  the  bur- 
nished appearance. 

Soapdane 

Advaniagea: 

8oapst'One  gives  a  good  even  heat  for  cake  griddles. 

Disadmi  niage^ : 

Unless  it  m  of  excellent  quahtj  and  ia  well  cared  for,  it  is  likely  to  be  too 
absHJrlK^nt  to  be  sjinilary. 

General  care: 

Soapetone  should  be  cleaned  oecai?ionally  with  soap  and  water^  and 
thoroughly  dried.    The  pores  should  always  be  kept  well  filled  with  oil. 

Till 
AdttafUagcs: 

L  The  utensils  are  light. 
2.  They  arc  comparatively  inexpensive. 


I 


238 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


3.  They  are  attractive  in  sppearanc<?  when  new, 

4.  They  art*  good  ponductora  of  heat;  this  allows  f6t>d  cooked  in  them 
to  become  evenly  heated. 

5*  The  beat  grades  of  tinware  are  not  corroded  by  water* 

DUadmnlagea: 

1.  Tin  does  not  endure  intense  heat,  which  makes  it  unsuitable  for 
frying  and  makes  dryiriK  it  by  setting  it  «n  the  stove  n  Imd  pruetic^. 

2.  Scratches  eocpoee  the  stCM^l  and  make  mat  poasihle.  Therefore,  metal 
8fK>OQS  and  scrapers  should  not  l^e  Ui^ed  on  tin. 

3.  Tin  utensils  are  in  genenil  not  gtKid  for  ccKiking  acid  foods  bccftuae 
even  the  best  tin  is  hkely  to  Ixi  acted  on  by  hot  acid. 

General  care: 

1.  Wash  tinware  in  hot  suds  made  with  neutral  snap. 

2.  Use  scouring  fHJwders  if  ni?cc*88ary  to  remove  ftKMl  that  has  hv^m 
bimied  on. 

3.  Do  not  scour  tin  tci  restore  its  brightness  because  the  tamiab  acU 
as  a  protective  coat  and  makes  the  utensil  wear  longer. 

Spvcuil  care:  

Boil  tin  utensil*?  for  two  or  three  mi  mites  in  a  solution  of  washin^^odi 
made  in  the  pn>portion  of  6  quarts  of  cold  water  to  1  pound  of  washing*«OflA^ 

Wood 

Aikantagea: 

Wooden  spoons  are  lighter  than  metal  spoons  and  not  so  noisy,  they  do 
not  scratch  saucepans,  they  do  not  discolor  the  hand,  they  are  non- 
conductors of  heat. 

DimdvarUugm: 

1.  Wooden  utensils  may  become  dented,  rough,  or  darkened^ 

2.  They  are  likely  to  he  tmsanitary  and  to  lake  up  odors  because  of 
improper  cleaning. 

3.  If  wood  is  not  well  seasoned,  it  cracks  and  splinters  easily. 

• 

General  care: 

1.  Fine  sand  is  lietU-r  thim  soap  for  scrubbing  wood  because  the  aUciiIi 
in  soap  combines  with  wood  to  form  a  dark  stain, 

2.  Never  use  hot  water  on  wtMHl. 

3.  Scrub  wikkI  with  a  circubr  motion*  but  rinse  it  and  dry  it  with  the 
grain  in  order  to  leave  the  tilwrs  Hat. 

4.  Rub  steak  phnbi  thoroughly  with  some  food  oil,  until  the  wood 
has  aljsorbed  all  it  will. 

Special  care: 

1 .  To  remove  dents,  put  a  wet  pad  of  several  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth 

or  musUn  on  the  dent  and  cover  if  with  Ji  hot  iron.    The  steam  will  niise 
the  fibers  of  the  wood  much  as  it  raises  the  pile  of  velvet. 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS  239 

2.  To  smooth  away  a  rough  place,  rub  it  with  steel  wool,  following  the 
grain  of  the  wood. 

3.  To  restore  the  color  of  wood  that  has  become  darkened,  use  steel 
wool  and  weak  hydrochloric  acid. 

Zinc  or  gcUvanized  iron 
Advantages: 

1.  Zinc  makes  a  good  sanitary  covering  for  table  tops. 

2.  It  does  not  become  tarnished  readily  by  action  of  the  air. 

3.  It  is  rust-proof. 

Disadvantages: 

1.  Zinc  becomes  tarnished  by  the  action  of  damp  air  and  is  affected  by 
salt,  which  prevents  its  lasting  well  on  the  seashore. 

2.  It  is  acted  on  by  acids. 

3.  It  cannot  be  used  for  cooking  utensils  because  it  is  affected  by  both 
acids  and  alkalis. 

General  care: 

Wash  zinc  with  hot  suds  made  of  mild  soap. 

Special  care: 

1.  Kerosene  dissolves  a  film  of  grease  and  helps  to  remove  inclosed  dirt. 

2.  Bath  brick  may  be  used  for  food  bins,  in  which  case  it  would  not  l)e 
desirable  to  use  kerosene. 

3.  Scour  zinc  with  a  paste  made  of  kerosene  and  baking  soda,  and  rinse 
it  thoroughly  with  hot  water. 

4.  Acids,  such  as  vinegar,  sulphuric  acid  in  the  proportion  of  one  part  of 
acid  to  twelve  parts  of  water,  or  alum  and  acetic  acid  may  be  used  to 
remove  tarnish,  but  they  eat  into  the  zinc.  The  metal  should  be  rinsed 
thoroughly  with  hot  water.    The  tarnish  is  likely  to  appear  soon  again. 


CHAPTER  XI 

TABLE  SETTING  AHD  SERVING 

BY  Flora  Rose 


"WTien  an  attempt  is  made  to  formalize  any  household  prae- 
f  ice,  there  is  always  the  danger  of  rcnl  tape.  Yet  some  formalin 
ties,  if  based  on  a  strong  foundation  of  eomiiiuii  wiise,  make  h'fe 
more  unselfish  and  de light fuL  A  safeguard  agahist  iiselet^  for- 
mality is  to  keep  constantly  in  mind  this  fac! — every'  good  rule 
should  have  a  good  reason.  When  the  role  is  being  applifn], 
the  reason  should  be  niatle  to  appear.  If  in  any  household  no 
good  reason  is  forthcoming  for  the  formal  rule  imposed,  the 
rule  should  be  discarded.  This  is  particularly  true  in  table 
setting  and  sei'^ing  where  mere  formality  may  have  tleveloped 
to  sueli  an  extent  as  to  obs<*ure  origuial  gootl  reasons  for  doing 
things.  Yet  most  of  the  fondamental  rules  in  good  table  set- 
ting are  built  on  a  sound  foundation  of  reason. 

TABLE   SETTING 

The  tal>Ie  itself  may  !>e  Imre  wood  or  it  may  be  clothed  in 
finest  linen  or  oileloth.    It  should  he  clean. 

For  each  jx^rson,  20  to  30  inches  of  lengthwise  space  should 
l>e  allowed,  unless  the  table  is  round  or  s€|uare  and  seats  only 
four  or  eight  jiersons.  Less  than  20  inches  means  uncomfort- 
able crowding;  more  than  30  inches  means  difficulty  in  talking 
across  the  distance. 

Covering  far  the  table 
The  reasons  for  covering    a   table  with  tablecloth,  table- 
square,  runners,  doilies,  or  napkins  are:  (1)  to  prot**ct  the  sur- 
face of  the  table;  (2)  to  hide  the  surface  of  the  table;  (3)  to  in- 
sure quieter  service;  (4)  to  reflect  the  light;  (5)  to  improve  the 

2IQ 


I 


I 

I 

I 


TABLE  SETTING  AND  SERVING 

appearance  of  the  tal:^Ie.  If  any  covering  is  use*l»  it  should  l^e 
clean,  A  mugh,  hure,  clean  table  is  lietter  than  soikxl,  rumpled 
lijien,  no  matter  how  hue  and  expensive. 

A  tablecloth  may  make  a  more  honiogent*oiis  picture  than 
either  doihes  or  runners,  and  ii«  unljruken  wliile  surface  re- 
flects more  light  than  a  partly  bare,  dark  table.  There  is  no 
other  gooc!  reason,  however,  why  doihc*s  or  runners  may  not 
always  be  used  in  phiee  of  the  larger  cioth  to  protect  the  table. 
Any  rule  such  as  using  only  a  tablecloth  at  a  formal  dinner  is 
pure  form.  Doilies  and  runners  have  some  great  advantages. 
Small  pieces  of  linen  are  easy  to  w*ash,  and  if  one  is  spottc^d  it 
alone  nuiy  be  washt^d,  Furthemiore,  the  table  is  easier  to  set 
with  doilies,  particularly  for  a  small  family. 

To  8€i  the  table 

If  a  tabledoth  is  to  be  used, 

A  tablecloth  keeps  clean  and  immussed  longer  if  a  heai? 
cotton  or  padded  cloth,  callt*d  a  silencer  or  protection  cloth  of' 
"huaher,"  is  useil  under  it,  than  if  it  is  placed  next  to  the  table* 
An  old  clean  sheet  may  serve  this  purpose  if  no  other  cloth  is 
available.  The  tal>le  should  first  be  covered  with  the  silence 
cloth,  care  being  taken  to  arrange  it  so  that  it  will  not  hang 
below  the  tablecloth,  The  tiiblecloth  is  then  stretched  on  the 
table  so  that  tlie  center  fold  is  uppermost  and  so  that  the  cloth 
hangs  evenly  on  both  sides  and  at  Ivoth  ends  of  the  table.  Care 
should  be  taken  to  see  that  the  cloth  is  straight.  If  possible  to 
prevent  it,  a  cloth  should  not  hang  over  the  sides  and  ends  much 
more  than  12  or  14  inches,  since  otherwise  it  will  not  clear  the 
sejits  of  the  chairs  and  will  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  t^ble. 
Furthermore,  it  is  in  the  way  at  mealtime, 

//  doilies  are  used. 

Doilies  that  are  rectangular  are  better  than  round  or  squaf 
ones,  since  they  give  a  wider  f^pace  for  the  arrangement  of 
silver  antl  glasses  on  the  table  and  are  a  better  protection  to  it. 
The  doilies  should  Urst  be  arraDgc*d  at  one  end  and  on  one  side 
of  the  tal>le.    On  tlie  side  one  should  try  to  space  the  doilies 


A 


242 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


m  that,  they  are  equally  distant  from  earh  other.    Then,  ex- 
actly opposite  these  doilies,  thowse  to  he  uwd  at  the  other  end 
and  on  iht*  other  aide  of  the  table  stiould  he  placed.     Doihes 
ahould  be  placed  so  that  one  edge  is  about  at  the  edge  of  the  \ 
table. 

The  indimdual  cover. 

The  place  aiTanged  for  each  individual  at  the  table  is  called 
the  cover.  After  the  cloth  or  doilies  have  been  placed,  each 
individual  cover  should  be  arranged.  It  is  dcsiralile,  as  a  rule, 
to  place  at  the  iiuiividual  cover  as  much  of  the  silver  and  china 
as  may  add  to  the  convenience  of  the  meal.  If,  for  example, 
spoons  are  plaeeil  at  the  individual  covers  inst-ead  of  in  a  holder, 
considerable  confusion  may  be  prevented  at  mealtune. 

Knives  are  placed  at  the  right  of  the  cover  with  the  sharp 
eilge  of  the  blade  toward  the  j>latt\  Tiiis  is  l>ecause  the  knife 
18  usually  hfted  with  the  right  hand. 

Forks  are  placed  at  the  left  of  the  cover  with  the  tines  up. 
This  is  because  the  fork  is  lifted  in  the  left  hand  when  something 
is  beiug  cut  with  the  knife  and  fork.  If  only  a  fork  is  to  Ix?  use<l, 
a  very  good  reason  may  be  found  for  placing  it  at  tlie  right  of  the 
plate.  It  i»  in  general  a  good  rule  to  try  to  keep  a  l>alance  be- 
tween the  silver  on  each  side  of  the  cover,  since  all  the  silver  on 
one  bide  makes  a  heavy-kwking  design. 

Spoons  may  be  placeil  at  tlie  right  of  the  knife  or  in  front  of 
the  plate  with  handles  toward  the  right  hand.    Tlie  knife  and  ^ 
fork  neareist  the  plate  should  be  far  enough  apart  to  permit  the  ■ 
largest  plate  used  at  the  meal  to  be  set  tetween  them  without 
pushing  them  out  of  place.    They  should  not  be  spread  unneces- 
sarily far  apart.    All  the  silver  in  one  group  should  Ix^  compactly  M 
placed.  " 

The  glass  may  be  placed  at  the  tip  of  the  knife  and  slightly 
to  the  right.  There  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not  be  placed 
at  the  tip  of  the  fork  and  slightly  to  the  left  if  preferred  in  that 
place.  The  butter-plate  may  be  placet!  at  the  tip  of  the  fork 
and  slightly  to  the  left.  Butter-plate  and  glass  may  be  made 
to  change  phices  if  preferred. 


I 


TABLE  SETTING  AND  SERVING 


243 


The  napkin  may  be  placed  at  the  left  of  the  forks,  at  the  right 
of  the  knives,  in  the  center  of  the  cover,  or  in  front  of  tlie  cover, 
according  to  convenience.  The  napkins  should  Ik?  so  placed 
that  the  corners  of  each  face  the  same  way,  if  they  have  been 
so  ironed  that  this  is  possible. 

The  pUite. — If  m  plate  is  set  at  the  individual  cover  before  the 
meal  begins,  it  sliould  l)e  phccd  J^  to  1  inch  from  the  edge  of 
the  table.  This  is  to  prevent  danger  of  tipping  through  any 
thoughtless  movement  of  the  individual 

Relalion  of  covers. — All  the  glasses  on  one  side  of  the  table 
should  be  in  a  straight  line.  The  same  is  true  for  butter-plates, 
silver,  and  napkins  or  other  utensils.  On  looking  down  the 
table,  a  straight  hue  running  from  the  center  of  one  utensil 
fihoukl  strike  the  center  of  tlie  next  utensil  of  the  same  kind. 
This  makes  a  well-ortlered,  trim  table.  If  each  side  of  the  table 
has  the  same  number  of  covers,  the  center  of  each  cover  on  ouc 
side  should  be  exactly  opposite  the  center  of  the  cover  on  the 
other  side.  The  ends  of  the  handles  of  all  the  silver  used  at  the 
covers  shoukl  be  J  2  t^  ?4  ^^^^  from  the  edge  of  the  table  and 
should  be  in  a  straight  Une.  This  is  a  basic  principle  of  good 
design. 

General  equipmenL 

There  is  a  certain  amount  of  general  equipment  which  must 
go  on  each  table.  This  varies  with  the  simplicity  of  the  meal 
and  with  the  formality  of  the  service.  As  fonuality  decreases, 
food  is  left  to  be  served  on  the  table. 

If  possible,  salt-contaioers  should  be  allowed  for  each  two 
persons  and  shoukl  be  placed  inconspicuously  and  within 
reach  of  each. 

If  jelly  or  pickles  are  placed  on  the  table*  a  dish  of  jelly  at 
one  end  and  at  one  side  of  the  table  may  balance  a  dish  of  pickles 
at  the  ofhcT  end  and  on  the  other  side  of  the  table.  If  spoons 
or  forks  are  placctl  for  starving  thcvse,  they  should  be  i>lar(Hl 
straight  aotl  parallel  with  the  silver  at  the  sides  or  ends  of  the 
tablci  not  on  the  bias. 

A  good  general  rule  is  not  to  cross  any  of  the  extra  silver  to 


^ 


244 


A   MANUAL  OF  UOME-MAKING 


he  used  for  servinjcj;  and  never  to  place  it  on  a  bias  line.    If^  1 
exariiple,  a  .small  butter-spreader  is  u.sed,  it  should  be  placed  < 
the  butter-plate  parallel  to  all  the  other  silver,  or  placed  next^ 
to  f  he  other  knives.    The  reason  for  straipjhtness  is  f^otjd  dcj^ign. 

As  far  as  possible,  silver  for  service  should  l>e  arranged  on  the 
main  table  or  on  a  side  table  liefore  the  meal  liegins.    This  silver, 
may  be  placed  on  the  right  and  left  of  the  cover  of  the^scrv^t 
and  in  the  same  way  and  line  as  tlie  remainder  of  the  silver 
that  cover* 

If  cups  antJ  saocers  are  pyt  on  the  table  before  the  nieal»  they| 
should  ije  arranged  in  such  a  way  as  to  faeihtate  the  pouring  of 
the  beverage  and  the  paKsing  of  the  cups.  The  handles  of  the 
cups  should  all  be  in  line  and  in  a  position  for  the  server  to  take 
hf)Id  of  them  most  conveniently.  Place  slit ju Id  be  left  for  the 
pot  and  for  cream  and  sugar  8ervei*s,  and  these  sliould  l)e  placecl| 
in  such  a  way  as  to  facilitate  ser\iee.  The  handle  of  the  pot 
should  be  toward  the  hand  of  the  server. 

Aft(*r  (he  table  is  set,  the  chaii-s  may  l)e  arranged.  Thejf 
should  be  in  straight  rows  and  sufficiently  far  from  the  table 
to  ref|uire  but  slight  moving  when  the  jx'rsons  are  seated. 

Just  before  the  meal,  the  glasse.s  should  Ix^  filled  with  cold" 
water,  the  l>utter  may  be  placed  on  the  plates,  and  the  bread 
may  be  cut. 

TABLE  SERVICE 

A  few  simple  nile-s  will  greatly  facilitate  attractive  and  con-^ 

venicnt   serving.     No  attempt  will   Ijq  made  here  to  diacua 
service  of  the  extremely  formal  type. 

To  pass  food 

Food  sliould  l>e  passed  at  the  left  of  the  pen^n  sitting  at 
the  table.  This  is  liecausc  it  is  ea^sier  to  reiurh  across  than  around 
with  the  right  hanrL  The  opposite  procedure  is  more  conven- 
ient for  left-handed  persons. 

Wlien  food  is  pas.-:e<b  the  dish  should  Iw  held  close  to  the  tabh 
with  the  fxlge  of  the  dish  slightly  over  the  edge  of  the  plate  ol 
the  p(«rson  fo  \h^  served.  This  prevents  accidents  and  is  con^J 
venient  for  the  person  served. 


TABLE  SETTING  AND  SERVING 


245 


A  tray  is  not  necc*ssary  for  passing  single  vegetable  dishes, 
salad  bowls,  or  platters.  In  fact,  safer  service  rei^ults  if  the 
serving  dish  reikis  on  tlie  palm  and  spreiid  hngers  of  the  left 
hand.  The  hand  should  be  protected  with  a  folded  napkin. 
This  leaves  the  right  hand  free  to  rearrange  the  spoon  between 
sellings  and  to  guard  against  possible  movements  of  persons 
at  the  table. 

To  place  food 

In  general  it  may  be  more  convenient  to  place  food  from 
the  right  of  tlie  person  served,  Tliis  is  because  it  can  be 
placed  by  the  right  hand.  If  it  is  more  convenient  to  place  from 
the  left,  there  is  no  rea^son  against  so  doing.  When  a  cup  and 
saucer  are  placed,  the  handles  of  the  cup  and  the  spoon  should 
be  in  a  position  most  convenient  for  the  user. 

To  remotfe  dishes 
In  general  it  may  be  more  convenient  to  remove  dishes  from 
the  right  tlian  from  the  left  of  the  person  served.    They  may 
be  removed  from  either  side. 

To  serve  food  carved  or  served  at  the  table 

Semi-format  methods 

It  is  more  convenient  for  the  carver  if  only  one  plate  is  placed 
in  front  of  him  at  a  time.  Hot  plates  should  l>e  kept  on  the  side 
tal>le,  one  set  in  front  of  the  carver,  and  a  sec^md  held  in  the 
left  hand.  The  waitress  should  stand  at  the  left  of  the  carver, 
unless  he  prefers  the  opposite  side.  When  the  plate  in  front  of 
the  carver  is  filled,  it  is  removed  from  the  left  with  the  right 
hand,  and  a  hot  plate  put  in  place  with  the  left  hand  in  order 
to  reduce  interference  with  the  carver.  After  placing  tlie  filletl 
plat^B,  the  waitress  should  secure  a  fresh  plate  from  the  side 
table  and  return  to  the  same  position  hy  the  carver. 

Tliis  metho<l  means  slow  service  and  should  not  be  followed 
unless  the  imndjer  to  be  sej'ved  iis  few  or  there  is  niore  than  one 
waitress.  It  may  be  hurried  by  ha\ing  the  vegetables  sensed 
at  the  other  end  of  the  table.  In  this  case,  the  plate  must  be 
carried  from  the  cancer  to  the  server  and  then  placed  at  the 


246 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


I  uugc 


inteiidcKj  cover.  If  tiic  ve^c'tables,  Rra\y,  and  bread  am  to 
be  piissecl,  the  following  order  may  l)e  observed:  potatoes, 
^ravy,  bread,  other  vegetablen,  eondiriicnt,  niieh  as  jolly  of] 
pickles. 

Infontuil  nietkod. 

For  the  informal  method,  all  the  i>lates  are  placed  in  front 
of  the  carver.  It  is  wisritiai  on  tlie  part  of  tht*  carver,  with  this 
type  of  service,  to  cut  the  entire  number  of  portions  l>efore: 
Ix^ginniii^  to  serve. 

After  the  plate  Lh  filled,  the  carver  may  pass  it  with  his  ri^ht 
hand  to  the  person  at  his  left,  or  with  his  left  hand  to  the  |K'r* 
son  at  his  right.  In  this  order  it  i;^  passed  from  one  to  the  other 
until  it  reat!hes  its  destination.  The  veKetahles  may  be  served 
by  the  carver  or  by  someone  at  the  opposite  end  of  the  table. 

Clearing  the  table  for  dessert 

Semi-formal  method. 

The  large  general  dishes  should  be  removed  first.  The  platca' 
are  taken  from  the  inthvidua!  cover,  and  carrietl  from  the  room, 
one  in  each  hand.  Smaller  equipment,  such  as  salt  and  f>c*fjper 
dishes^  should  Ite  removed  on  a  small  tray.  Nothing  should  In* 
left  on  the  tal)le  which  is  not  to  be  used  for  the  remainder  of 
the  meal.  Glasses  may  be  left,  since  many  individuals  prefer 
water  toward  the  close  of  a  meah  The  table  is  crumbed  with 
a  clean  folded  napkin  and  plate,  or  with  a  crunilj  brush  or  knife 
and  tray.  One  should  replace  in  an  orderly  way  any  silver  oi 
glassware  left  for  the  last  course. 

Infomia!  method. 

The  large  general  dishes  should  Ik?  removed  first.  The  platea] 
are  then  taken  fnjiu  the  individual  covers,  and  one  placed 
carefully  and  quietly  on  top  of  the  other.  One  should  not  at- 
tempt to  pile  more  than  can  l>e  safely  and  quietly  handled. 
It  saves  time  and  effort  to  have  a  wheeled  tray  or  a  large  tray 
on  the  side  table.  Platens  may  then  be  carried  two  at  a  time 
to  this  table,  carefully  stacked  njmn  it,  and  all  removed  at 
oucc.    The  dining  table  should  then  k?  crumbed. 


I 


I 


262 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


until  Tuesday.    Before  washing  day,  clothing  shoiild  be 
oughly  gone  over  to  discover  rents  and  stains,  carefully  i 
and  the  white  clothes  put  to  soak.  This  preliminary  worl^ 
qnires  time  which  it  may  be  inconvenient  to  give  on  Sat" 
and  which  may  not  be  justified  on  Sunday, 

The  following  outEne  is  suggested  for  the  preparat« 
clothes  for  washing: 

1.  Sort  the  clothea  iiccordmg  to  kind: 

a.  White  cotton  and  liDea  clothing 
Table  linen  and  clean  towels 
Bed  and  body  linen 
Handkercliiefs 
Soiled  towdB  and  dotbs. 

b.  Colored  do  thing, 

c.  Flannels. 

2.  Mend  rents,  except  in  stockings. 
a.  Remove  stains  (pages  282  to  306). 
4.  Put  as  many  white  dothes  to  m&k  Ba  is  practicable.    Some 

dothea  having  fast  colors  may  be  soaked  if  very  much  soiled. 

The  purpose  of  soaking  soUed  clothes  before  washing, 
is  to  soften  and  separate  the  fibers  of  cloth  in  order  to  L 
dirt*  Water  alone  accomplishes  this  purpose  to  a  great  ex 
but  the  use  of  a  soap  solution^  or  a  soap  solution  to  whicl 
been  added  borax,  ammonia,  or  other  alkali^  and  turpe* 
kerosene,  or  benzine,  makes  the  washing  process  both 
and  quicker. 

It  is  well  before  be^ning  the  washing  to  make  a  bo&^ 
tion,  ad  it  gives  a  quick  suds  and  is  moie  eaaOy  handl*^ 
its  use  willj  therefore,  save  time. 

All  the  clothing  should  not  be  put  to  soak  in  the  SEi- 
If  three  tuba  are  available,  table  linen  and  clean  towels 
be  soaked  in  one,  bed  Hnen  and  body  linen  in  a  second^ 
towels  and  cloths  in  a  third.  If  only  two  tubs  are  avf 
table  linen  and  clean  towels  may  be  washed  without  i 
inary  soaking.  Soiled  towels  and  cloths  ^ould  alw^ 
soaked  before  washing. 

If  colds  have  prevailed  in  a  family,  the  handkerchiefb 
be  put  to  Boak  in  a  solution  of  boric  add  in  a  basin  by 


THE  LAUNDRY  261 

I  ith  aitd  iitm  od  m>mng  board  covered  with  bl^ok  clotli.     Any  glue  left 
uver  roay  be  saved  and  used  agaia* 

f  ,j  increase  stiffnexn: 

1    Partly  dry  garmeDt  before  starching* 

J.  Add  1  tablespoon  powdered  gum  arable  reduced  to  liquid  in  M  cup 
iiuiling  water,  to  the  stiff  atarch  mixture. 

3.  Use  borax. 

i  Add  a  smaU  amount  of  glue  to  starch  mixture^ 

5.  Drj'  quickly. 

(;iim  arMc  at  a  Miarch  mibsiUuU: 

4  tablespoons  pulverized  gum  arable 

I  pint  cold  water 

:J  tablespoons  alcohol. 

Put  water  and  gum  arable  in  saucepan  and  set  into  aaucepan  oontaining 
iKHling  water, 

VVIiciL  dissolved,  strain  through  cheese-cloth,  cool,  add  alcohol,  pour  into 
a  bottle,  cork,  set  away  for  use.  The  alcohol  acts  aa  a  preservative  and 
\be  mixture  may  be  kept  for  any  length  of  time. 

BLUTNG 

VHnie  fabrics  have  naturally  a  creamy  tint,  wMch  may  be 
fleepened  to  an  unpleasant  pale  yellow  by  careless  washing, 
Uy  insufficient  rinsing,  or  by  lack  of  exposure  to  the  bleaching 
influence  of  sunlight  and  fresh  air.  Bluing  is  used  to  hide  the 
ycilow  color,  because  blue  and  yeUow  are  complementary  colors 
and  when  used  together  in  proper  proportions  give  the  effect  of 
whiteness.  Bluing  is  unwarrantably  used  to  hide  a  yeUownesa 
which  comes  from  careless  washing, 

Xo  one  kind  of  bluing  may  be  recommended  to  the  house- 
keeper. She  must  experiment  for  herself,  choose  one  good 
variety,  and  leara  to  use  that  one  properly^ 

Sufficient  bluing  should  be  used  to  make  a  little  of  the  bluing 
water  taken  up  in  the  cup  of  the  band  show  a  pale  sky-blue  color. 
More  than  that  amount  of  bluing  should  not  be  needed.  It  is 
always  best  to  make  a  small  amount  of  strong  bluing  in  a  bowl 
of  water,  then  draw  from  it  to  color  the  water  in  the  tub. 

WASHIKO 

^Vhile  Monday  has  long  been  chosen  as  the  home  day  for 
washing,  there  may  be  good  reason  to  postpone  the  process 


260 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Thick  siarch: 

H  cup  starch,  mixed  with  H  ctip  oold  water 
I  quart  boUing  water 
H  to  1  level  tablespoon  borax 

H  level  tablespoon  lard  or  butter  or  kerosene  or  turpentine;  or  U. 
incb-eqiiare  wax  or  paraffia 

Mix,  and  cook  according  to  directiona  for  csooking  starch. 

Thinttareh: 

J4  cup  starch,  mixed  with  H  cup  cold  water 

3  quarts  boiling  water 

Other  ingredients,  same  as  for  thick  starch 

Bfiz,  Dook  according  to  directioDS  for  cooking  starch. 

CZeor  niarch: 

Dilute  H  cup  thick  starch  with  1  quart  hot  water. 

Qear  starch  is  used  for  thin  muslinSp  infantfl'  dresses^  and  the  Uke.  <^  ^ 


i 


Baw  starch: 

Same  proportiona  as  for  thick  starch. 

Uee  borax  but  omit  fatty  substances. 

Stir  thoroughly  before  using, 

Baw  starch  is  often  used  with  rery  thick  or  veiy  thin  goods^  to  in 
their  stiffness.  A  fabric  will  take  up  a  greater  amount  of  starch  m  tb 
raw  than  m  the  cooked  form.  The  desired  stiS'ness  m  produced  by  Hw 
cooking  given  the  raw  starch  by  the  heat  of  the  iron.  The  difficulty  li 
troning  is  increased  by  using  raw  starch,  for  unless  the  ironer  is  akillfdi 
the  starch  cooks  on  the  iron  and  starch  specks  are  the^  produced  on  & 
clothes.  Moreover,  raw  starch  gives  a  less  durable  finish  than  does  cooVej 
starch. 


Bice  Biarck: 

Ji  cup  rice 

1  quart  boiling  water 

Wsah  rice,  cook  in  water  until  very  soft. 

As  water  evaporates,  add  more  to  keep  quantity  up  to  1  quart. 

When  cooked  add  another  quart  boiling  water. 

Strain,  withoat  squeezing,  through  double  thickneaa  of  cheese-clol 
through  flannel .    Use  while  hot.    The  most  satisfactory  starch  for  ^* 
fabrics  is  rice  starch,  and  it  may  be  used  in  place  of  dear  starch. 

Glut /or  sHffening  dark  doihu: 

12  ounces  dark  glue 

1  quart  water 

Boil  together  until  glue  is  dissolved,  cool  somewhat.  Dip  the  gu.. 
to  be  stiffened  into  glue  and  wipe  off  excess  of  glue  with  piece  of  t 
eheeee^oth^  s&teen,  or  calico.    Alter  epnnklin^,  toU  ^tm^^^  m' 


I 


THE  LAUNDEY 


City  subetaneesp  such  as  wax,  paraffin,  turpentine,  I&rd,  or 
Imttcr,  are  used  to  add  a  amoothnessj  gloss,  and  finish,  to  pre- 
vent the  starch  from  sticking  to  the  iron,  and  to  aid  in  prevent- 
ing; the  absorption  of  moisture. 

Substances  resettibling  glue,  such  as  gum  arabic  and  dextrin, 
an?  u^ed  with  starch  to  increase  its  stiffening  power.  They  are 
H)metimes  used  alone  when  the  white  color  of  starch  is  con- 
sidered a  disadvantage  in  stiffening  colored  fabrics, 

Diredians  for  imng  sU^ch,  starch  mibsHtuies,  and  ^arch  ao- 
casories: 

In  making  starch,  a  naturaUy  soft  water  is  greatly  to  be  de- 
*:irrdp  but  if  the  water  furnished  is  hard  it  should  be  softened 
with  borax,  not  with  washing-soda  or  lye,  since  these  tend  to 
produce  a  yellow  color  with  starch; 

1.  )^  cup  wheat  starch  to  1  quart  water  givea  flexible,  light ^  durable  fimsh. 

2.  H  cup  coroatarch  to  1  quart  water  gtves  moderate  body  atiffuess. 

3.  H  cup  wheat  Btarch  to  I  quart  water  gives  flexible,  firm  flniah. 

4.  H  cup  comatarch  to  1  quart  watei-  givea  a  tiff  body  finish, 

A  mixture  of  the  two  starches  may  be  varied,  to  produce  any 

desired  result. 

DiredioTis  for  cookinQ  starch: 

Starch  should  first  be  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water  and  then 
htirred  slowly  into  boiling  water  and  cooked  in  accordance  with 
the  following  directions: 

t.  If  wheat  starch  is  used,  cook  alowly  at  least  25  or  30  minutes. 

2,  If  oomstarch  is  used,  cook  slowly  15  to  20  minutes. 

3>  If  a  mixture  of  wheat  starch  and  cornstarch  is  used,  the  wheat  starch 
ibould  be  added  first  and  cooked  15  minutes.  The  cornstarch  should  thea 
be  added  and  the  mixture  cooked  15  minutes  longer,  Btir  the  mixture  fre- 
quently, to  preyect  sticking  and  formation  of  a  film. 

Thorough  cooking  of  starch  is  very  desirable  in  laundry  prac- 
tice, for  it  increases  the  penetrability  of  the  starch  and  deciBases 
its  tendency  to  stick  to  the  iron.  If  borax,  lard,  butter,  kerosene, 
or  other  like  substance  is  used,  it  should  be  cooked  with  the 
starch,  to  insure  thorough  mixing. 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

Rice  starch  gives  a  natural,  pttre  white  color  to  fabrics^ 
cornstarch  gives  a  yellow  color^  and  wheat  starch  a  color ) 
tween  the  two.  Since  wheat  starch  and  cornstarch  are  tte 
practical  possibihties  in  the  American  household,  further  cb£j 
parisoD  will  be  between  these  two*  When  good  color,  amodtt 
oess  of  surface,  phability,  and  fine  finish  are  deslredp  wheat 
starch  gives  the  better  results;  moreover,  it  is  said  to  hoM^ 
better  in  damp  climates.  Cornstarch  gives  the  greater  stiffneaa^ 
or  body,  to  a  fabric*  y^- 

According  to  the  finish  desired,  advantage  is  taken  of  lie 
different  characteristics  of  wheat  starch  and  cornstarch.  When 
flexibihty  and  finish  are  the  main  objects^  wheat  starch  is  lised 
alone;  if  stiffness  ia  the  chief  consideration  and  finish  may  be 
overlooked,  cornstarch  is  used  alone;  when  it  is  d^irable  |o 
combine  stiffness  with  flexibility  and  good  finish,  a  mixture  of 
cornstarch  and  wheat  starch  is  used.  There  is  no  reason  wSy 
the  use  of  wheat  starch  should  not  extend  to  the  home  laundry. 

Various  substances  ar&  used  with  starch  to  increase  its  pene* 
trability  and  prevent  it  from  sticking  to  the  iron,  as  well  as  to 
give  pliability  to  the  cloth,  increa^  its  body,  and  improve'^ito 
color.  Of  these  substances  may  be  mentioned  borax,  alumj^ 
paraffin,  wax,  turpentine,  kerosene,  gum  arable,  glue,  and  dei- 
trin. 

Borax  increases  the  penetrability  of  st^ch  and  aids  in  pre- 
venting it  from  sticking  to  the  iron.    Moreover,  starch  contain- 
ing borax  adds  gloss  to  a  garment,  increases  its  whiteness,  and     i 
gives  it  greater  body,  together  with  more  lasting  stiffness,  ^^ 
it  would  otherwise  have.  h 

Alum  is  used  alone,  or  with  borax,  in  starch  to  improve  %,      S 
to  increase  penetrability  and  pliability,  and  to  thin  the  st-.^     I 
mixture.    When  alum  is  cooked  with  a  starch  paste  it  causes  the 
paste  to  become  thinner.     ^*  Cooking  thin  "  with  alum  does  not 
affect  the  strength  of  the  starch  mixtm-e  and  is  an  advantage 
when  a  stiff  starch  is  desirable  and  the  thick  mixture  would  ^'^ 
inconvenient  to  handle.      By  the  use  of  alvKa,  %\.%jd&.TS»»:i 
nmde  thin  without  dilution .    Alum  has  been  o\>\eJcA^  Ui\s^ 
persons  as  being  somewlmt  injurious  to  iabnca. 


ntage 


THE  LAUNDRY 

^<^i(ip  sdutum  for  tmshing  mtteh^soiled  woolens  tmd  ddicaU  colors: 
I ,  |x>und  very  mild  or  neutral  aoap 
i^'  iKjund  borax 
3  qyafts  water- 

StHip  jcilu  mih  iurpeniine  incorp&mted: 

{  bar  sioap 

[  quart  water 

1  teaspoon  tutpeatLQe  or  kerosene. 

A  liquid  for  washing  delicate  fabrics  and  mlom  may  be 
umle  from  laundry  starch,  grated  potatoes,  rice,  flour,  and  the 
lil;e.  The  water  in  which  rice  has  boiled  may  be  saved  and 
utilized  for  the  same  purpose.  The  cleansing  liquid  after  cook- 
ing should  be  as  thick  as  cream  aiid  should  be  diluted  from  one 
to  four  times,  according  to  the  amount  of  dirt  in  the  clothing. 
tlothing  should  be  rinsed  in  a  more  dilute  solution,  which 
may  be  blued  for  white  clothes. 

6TABCH 

There  is  a  twofold  reason  for  the  use  of  starch  in  laundry 
operations:  (1)  the  glared  surface  of  a  starched  garment  keeps 
vkan  longer  than  an  unglazed,  or  unstarched,  surface;  (2)  the 
increase  in  body  of  the  starched  garment  gives  it  increased  re- 
sistance to  moisture  and  some  garments  are  considered  corre- 
spondingly  more  attractive  in  appearance.  In  the  commercial 
laundry  and  in  those  industries  in  which  the  finishing  of  fabrics 
k  a  consideration,  use  is  made,  not  of  one  kind  of  starch,  but  of 
several,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  work  to  be  donST 

The  American  housekeeper  uses,  as  a  rule,  only  cornstarch, 
because  of  its  cheapness  and  a  lack  of  knowledge  of  the  char- 
acteristics of  the  other  starches*  The  several  varieti^  of  starch 
vary  considerably  in  their  ability  to  penetrate  fabrics.  The 
reason  for  the  use  of  rice  starch  with  finer  fabrics  by  those  con- 
sidered to  do  a  superior  grade  of  laundry  work,  is  t^ause  of  its 
penetrative  quality.  It  is  said  to  penetrate  the  pores  of  a  fabric 
more  completely  than  does  any  other  starch  and  to  give  a  finer, 
smoother  finish.  Next  to  rice  starch  in  penetrability  comes 
wheat  starch.  Cornstarch  is  the  poorest  of  the  three  starches; 
it  has  a  tendency  to  lump  and  show  starch  spots  after  ironing. 


i 


"M 


256 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


turpentine,  paraffin,  fuller's  earth.  In  the  caee  of  the  ^^ 
powders  a  ^'filler"  is  used,  that  is,  a  substance  giving 
to  the  powder  and  very  properly  considered  an  adulterant, 
best  powders  contain  large  amounts  of  soap  and  only 
amounts  of  alkali.  A  report  is  made  of  one  of  the  poorer ' 
ties  of  washing  powder  containing  only  10  per  cent  of  T 
Enough  has  been  said  in  connection  with  the  effect  of  aD 
and  their  use  to  guide  the  housekeeper  in  her  purchase  and 
of  these  powders.  There  may  be  occasions  when  a 
powder  is  desirable,  but  indiscriminate  use  of  th^e  strong  ( 
ing  agents  is  inadvisable  and  should  not  be  generally  indi] 

Directions  and  formvXas, 

Home-made  aoap: 

1  pound  can  lye  dissolved  in  3  pints  cold  water 

5  pounds  fat  melted,  1)4  tablespoons  borax,  14  cup  ammonift 

When  lye  mi^cture  h&a  cooled  add  it  to  fat^  stii-  until  aa  thick  ] 

pour  into  wooden  or  pasteboard  boxes  lined  with  oiled  or 

eet  away  to  harden. 

Soap-bark: 

1  pound  Boap-bark  equals  2  pounds  soft  aoap.    Use  in  place  of  i 
Bran: 
1  cup  bran 
1  quart  water 

BoO  M  hour.    Btrain,  boil  bran  in  a  second  quart  water  H  hour 
needed,  reduce  with  warm  water. 

PokUo  water: 

Grate  two  Isjge'-sized  potatoes  into  1  pint  clean,   eleaff  soli 
fittain  into  1  gaOon  water,  let  liquid  settle.    Poor  o£f  and  use. 

Soap  eeiidion  for  iDOBkmQ  colored  go<xU: 

yi  pound  mild  or  medium  soap  to  1  gallon  water* 

Soap  soluiion  for  ordinary  purposes: 

1  bar  ordinary  washing  soap 

2  to  3  quarts  water 
Bhave  eoap  and  put  into  saucepan  with  cold  water.    Heat 

until  soap  Ib  dissolved  (about  1  hour). 

Soap  soltUion  for  soaking  dothes: 
1  bar  ordinary  soap 

3  gallons  water 
}4to  1  tablespoon  turpentivud 

J  io  S  tMblespoons  amrnoma. 


^ 


THE  LAUNDRY 


Alkalis  are  often  used  in  connection  with  soap,  in  excess  of 
the  amount  needed  to  soften  hard  water,  to  facilitate  the  re- 
moval of  dirt  by  their  direct  action  on  it.  In  many  cases  it 
{<  a  mistake  to  pursue  such  a  course  if  the  alkali  used  is  lye.  The 
sinie  objections  may  hold  with  washing-soda,  but  in  lesser 
(Ic^ee.  li  the  fabric  is  of  such  natui^  that  limited  amounts 
of  lye  or  washing-soda  will  not  seriously  injure  it,  a  strong  soap 
will  contain  all  the  free  lye  that  is  safe  to  use-  Borax  and  am- 
monia are  mild  alkalis  and  may  be  very  useful  when  the  pres- 
cnre  of  some  free  alkali  is  needed  and  the  effect  of  a  strong  soap 
tt-ould  be  injurious.  They  are  often  utilized  in  connection  with 
a  neutral  or  mild  soap  for  washing  flannels  and  delicately 
colored  fabrics. 

Turpentine,  paraffin,  kerosene,  and  benzine  are  all  valuable 
aids  to  the  laundress^  for  they  exert  a  solvent  action  on  matter 
of  a  fatty  nature  and  thus  soften  and  loosen  dirt,  materially 
facilitating  the  washing  process*  The  disadvantage  in  the  use  of 
tliese  substances  is,  that  clothing  in  the  washing  of  which  they 
have  been  imed  may  be  insufficiently  rinsed  afterward  and  retain 
the  odor  of  them.  Benzine  is  dangerous  to  handle  because  of  its 
inflammability,  and  cannot  be  used  with  very  hot  water  because 
it  evaporatea. 

FuUer's  earth  is  a  valuable  adjunct  in  cleaning^  and  is  some- 
times used  partly  to  replace  soap  in  the  washing  process  when 
the  articles  to  be  washed  are  in  a  very  greasy  condition  and  the 
use  of  a  strong  soap  is  not  sufficient,  and  when  the  use  of  a 
strong  alkali  is  not  advisable, 

Manufacturers  have  put  on  the  market  various  soaps  and 
powders  that  have  incorporated  with  them  some  one  or  more  of 
the  above  substances.  Naphtha  and  borax  soaps  and  soaps  con* 
taining  fuller's  earth  give  satisfaction.  Good  results  may  be 
obtained  at  less  cost  by  the  use  of  soap  and  the  accessory  ma- 
terial uncombined,  though  it  may  often  be  more  convenient 
to  use  the  manufactured  article  that  is  a  combination  of  the  two. 

Washing  powdera  are  mixtures  of  soap  and  some  alkali  such 
a<?  lye,  washing-soda,  and  borax,  and  may  have  incorporated 
with  them  some  one  or  more  of  the  substance  of  the  nature  of 


I 


L 


THE  LAUNDRY  253 

.o^+^Tir.^  Qf  thuf.  time  nreveiita  thp  flTitJan  nf  tJlfi  lllBfl 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

home-made  Boaps  are  generally  poorly  made  and  of  inferior 
quality.  The  inferiority  of  home-made  soaps  may  have  several 
causes.  The  so-called  cold  process  is  usually  followed  in  making 
these  soaps,  and  rarely  is  the  union  of  the  fat  with  the  lye  com. 
plete.  The  fat  used  in  home-made  soap  m  often  filled  with 
impurities  and  they  are  not  always  removed  before  the  soap  is 
made.  As  the  fat  in  kitchen  waste  varies  greatly  in  composition, 
it  is  impossible  to  give  the  exact  amount  of  alkaE  required  for 
home-made  soap.  It  is  evident,  then,  that  home-niade  soap 
is  likely  to  be  filled  with  impurities  and  to  be  both  greasy  and 
excessively  caustic,  "eating,"  because  of  the  presence  of  free 
fat  and  an  undue  amount  of  free  alkali*  For  the  benefit  of 
those  housekeepers  who  wish  to  try  its  manufacture,  however, 
a  formula  is  given  on  page  256- 

Soap  sfubsiiixdeB  and  accessories. 

Soap  is  the  best  all-round  cleansing  agent  to  use  in  the  laun- 
dry, but  there  are  other  substances  with, similar  cleansing  prof> 
erties  that  may  be  used  with  good  results  in  its  place: 

In  the  leaves,  stems,  roots,  or  bark  of  some  plants  occurs  a 
Boap-hke  substance  that  is  closely  allied  to  soap  in  its  power  tn 
remove  dirt.  Soap-bark  ( quill aia  bark)  is  a  familiar  example  of 
this  kind  of  cleansing  agent.  When  powdered  soap-bark  i> 
put  into  water  it  ^v^  a  good  lather,  and  it  acts  quickly  and 
effectively  to  remove  dirt  and  stains. 

Another  substance  with  soap-like  characteristics,  but  of 
aninaal  origin,  is  known  as  ox-bile,  or  ox-gall.  Soap-bark  and 
ox-gall  are  doubtless  well  known  to  the  housekeeper,  for  the}' 
are  often  used  to  wash  garments  easily  injured  by  the  strong  al- 
kalis, for  example,  woolens,  and  fabrics  printed  in  delicate  coloi^. 

Bran,  rice,  potatoes,  and  starch  are  frequently  recommendf<i 
as  good  substitutes  for  soaps  in  washing  delicate  fabrics  and 
colors* 

Van'ous  substBncea  are  used  witb  soap  to  la;caa^ja*\fc^^^^^ 
ate  the   washing  process.    Among  theoi  laa.^  >o«j 


THE  LAUNDRY 


253 


I 
I 


I 


*\^Q<e  substances  at  that  time  prevetits  the  action  of  the  lime 
m  the  soap.  A  good  suds  may  thus  quickly  be  obtained,  but 
,t  iloe^  not  rid  the  water  of  the  lime-soap  curd  which  forms  and 
wfik'lip  i»  P*^  ^^  least,  becomes  entangled  in  the  pores  of  the 
cloth*  The  entangled  curd  has  a  weakening  action  on  the  fabric 
mi  pves  it  a  close,  filled-in  appearance. 

The  only  satisfactory  method  of  getting  rid  of  iron  is  to  add 
w:is!iing-soda  to  the  water,  then  allowing  the  water  to  settle 
fi>r  five  or  six  days  before  using  it.  The  top  water  is  afterward 
drawn  off. 

Water  may  be  softened  by  any  of  the  following  methods: 

1.  For  each  gallon  of  water,  use  2  tablespoons  of  a  solution 
made  by  dissolving  1  pound  of  washing-soda  in  1  quart  of  boiling 
water.  The  solution  should  be  bottled  and  kept  on  hand,  as 
it  is  a  useful  cleansing  agent,  or  detergent. 

2.  For  each  gallon  of  water  use  7*  tablespoon  of  lye  dissolved 
in  1  cup  of  water. 

3.  For  each  gallon  of  water  use  1  tablespoon  of  borax  dis* 
Kjjved  in  1  cup  of  water. 

If  water  is  very  hard,  increase  the  amount  of  alkali  used. 

Organic  maUer: 

Organic  material  may  be  precipitated  by  the  use  of  alum  in 
the  form  of  an  alum-borax  mixturep  The  sediment  should  be 
allowed  to  settle  and  the  water  may  then  be  drawn  from  the 
lap. 

To  remove  organic  matter,  for  each  gallon  of  water  1  table- 
Fpoon  of  a  mixture  made  up  of  two-thirds  borax  and  one-third 
alum  should  be  used.  If  the  water  is  rich  in  organic  matter, 
more  than  1  tablespoon  of  the  mijcture  must  be  used.  When 
water  is  ve^  scarce,  alum  is  sometimes  used  to  separate  the 
dirt  from  the  water  and  the  water  is  then  filtered  and  used 
again. 

SOAP 

A  question  often  arises  as  to  t^  advisability  of  using  kitchen- 
J^aste  fats  in  making  soap  at  home.  While  some  house- 
keepers may  find  such  use  an  economy,  the  fact  remains  that 


L 


J 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


some  instatices  it  is  greatly  to  be  preferred.  Washing-soda 
and  lye,  unless  thoroughly  linsed  from  clothing,  have  a  tend- 
ency to  cause  yellowing,  particularly  when  starch  is  used  after- 
ward- BorBJLj  on  the  other  hand,  has  a  tendency  to  whiten 
fabrics  and  is  added  directly  to  starch,  in  order  to  give  it  good 
color  and  to  increase  its  clearness.  When  colored  fabrics  or 
wools  are  to  be  washed  in  hard  water,  borax  is  one  of  the  best 
alkalis  to  use  for  softening  the  water. 

Ammonia  {ammmdum  hydroxide)  is  another  good  alkali  for 
softening  water  when  it  is  not  advisable  to  use  stronger  alkalis. 
Ammonia  is  a  very  volatile  substance,  consequently  it  should 
be  used  only  when  the  laundiy  process  is  to  be  conducted 
quickly.  It  is  better  and  cheaper  to  purchase  the  full-strengUi 
ammonia  from  a  druggist  and  then  dilute  it,  than  to  buy  the 
article  known  as  household  ammonia,  which  is  of  unknown 
strength* 

How  to  soften  tiJoter. 

Both  permanently  and  temporarily  hard  water  may  l>e 
softened  by  distillation,  but  that  method  involves  apparatus 
not  practicable  for  the  average  home. 

If  water  is  temporarOy  hard,  however^  it  may  be  softened 
by  being  boiled,  then  ^owed  to  stand  until  the  lime  settlai. 
The  top  water  is  afterward  drawn  off*  Boiling  water  to  softrn 
it  is  without  doubt  the  best  method  if  it  softens  the  water  ^w^- 
ficiently,  since  no  harmful  chemicals  are  left  in  the  water  to 
injure  fabrics. 

Either  temporarily  or  permanently  hard  water  may  he* 
softened  by  adding  lime  or  washing-soda  to  the  water,  tli(*ii 
blowing  it  to  stand  in  open  kegs  for  several  days  before  its  u^t^ 
The  water  should  then  be  drawn  from  the  top.  If  the  water 
is  boiled  after  the  addition  of  the  softening  agent,  the  time  fi>^ 
standing  may  be  considerably  1^3ened,  Neither  of  the  tu'i* 
processes  just  described  is  much  in  use  in  the  household,  ij^i^*''^' 
the  time  consumed  by  them  is  often  considered  unwarranted 
The  more  common  method  is  to  add  washing-soda^  lye,  bonix, 
or  ammonia  at  the  time  of  washing.    The  addition  of  one  t>f 


[ill 


THE  LAUNDRY 


251 


/^pt  to  clothing,  owing  to  the  deposit  of  mmute  particles  of 
^,ri-nist  in  the  pores  of  the  fabric. 

( irgiinic  matter  may  be  present  in  the  water  used  for  laundry 
,.;irj>oscs,  which  causes  clothing  washed  in  it  to  become  dan- 
[^  mi»i5  to  the  wearer.  It  is  very  desirable  in  all  the  cited  caaes 
-tj  eliminate  mischievous  substances. 

Maknolsfor  Bofiening  water. 

\  number  of  materials  for  softening  water  are  on  the  market. 
j\w  cheapest  and  best  of  them  are  alkalis,  known  as  washing- 
^nb,  lye,  borax,  and  ammonia.  In  softening  water,  the  objec- 
rttin  to  the  use  of  any  chemical  is  the  injury  it  may  do  to  the 
fabric. 

Washing-soda  (sodium  carbonate)  is  the  best  alkali  to  soften 
water  for  geneml  household  use,  for,  while  effective  in  its  action, 
it  is  not  so  corrosive  as  to  render  its  handling  difficult  or  its 
u<e  unduly  harmful,  nor  is  it  expensive.  It  should  never  be 
used  in  its  dry  form,  however,  for  it  is  an  alkaH  sufficiently 
strong  to  eat  holes  in  a  fabric  if  it  is  used  in  full  strength,  and 
wherever  a  particle  of  the  dry  substance  falls,  a  strong  solution 
Ls  formed*  Carelessness  causes  many  of  the  complaints  against 
present-day  laundry  methods. 

Lye  (sodium  kydroridef  orcatisUc  soda)  is  an  alkali  of  far  pieater 
strength  than  washing-soda;  one  pound  of  lye  being  equal  to 
about  twelve  pounds  of  washing-soda,  it  should  be  used  with 
jast  so  much  the  greater  caution.  It  should  never  be  used  save 
in  solution  and,  as  the  solution  deteriorates  very  rapidly  on 
exposure  to  air,  if  any  quantity  is  made  it  should  be  kept  in 
bottles  or  jars  tightly  stoppered  with  rubber  stoppers.  The 
compound  formed  by  exposing  lye  to  the  action  of  air  and  water, 
is  washing-soda,  so  there  is  no  advantage  in  using  it.  Lye  is 
much  more  difficult  to  handle^  and  its  action  is  so  much  more 
corrosive  than  is  that  of  other  alkalis  that  it  is  not  ad* 
visable  to  use  it  in  the  home  laundry. 

Borax  (sodium  biboraJte)  is  one  of  the  mildest  alkalis  to  use 
in  the  laundiy.  This  alkali  is  more  expensive  than  either  lye 
or  washing-soda  and  is  not  so  vigorous  in  its  action;  but  in 


263 

nd  boiled  for  twenty 

vvRfc,  the  more  soiJed 

irt  folded  in.    Each 

•arately  and  pai*ked 

l^^olding  and  rolling 

om  spreading.     The 

.  water,  to  which  may 

iix  or  ammonia,  and 

•Tosene,  or  benzine, 

given  on  page  256. 

the  clothing  allowed 

•  ernight.     If  colored 

"  covered  with  warm 

No  alkaii  should  be 

t  for  washing  clothes, 

ids  should  be  washed 

tiewhat  for  each  case, 

houskeeper  in  solving 

id  the  threads  of 

'ving  dirt  caught  be- 

i  during  the  washing 

t  is  again  entangled; 

Mccn  warmed^  one  of 

'  maintain  an  even  or 

uU  laundry,  an  even 

amount  of  steam 

mdn'',  boiling  water 

:^  an  even  tempera- 

1-1  ling  process.    Aa 

nng  with  dirt,  more 

-p  or  soap  solution. 

-peeks  are  often  left 


tJiouId  be  immacu- 


^ 


f 


248  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

between  the^humb  on  the  body  side  and  the  forefinger  away 
from  the  body.  Food  is  scooped  up  by  this  shovel  aod  trans^ 
ferred  by  rotary  motion  of  the  wrist  to  the  mouth. 

The  knife  was  first  used  to  cut  food  and  to  transfer  it  to  the 
mouth.  When  the  fork  was  intioduced,  the  knife  lost  caste 
as  an  implement  for  traQsporting  food*  Its  only  acceptable 
use  at  present  is  to  cut  and  spread.  The  knife  is  held  in  tlie 
right  hand  in  the  same  way  as  the  fork  in  the  left  one. 

Knife  and  fork. — When  the  plate  is  passed  back  to  the  csarver 
for  a  second  serving,  the  knife  and  fork  should  be  placed  to- 
gether and  sent  along  with  the  plate*  This  is  because  no  other 
place  is  so  safe  for  them.  At  the  close  of  a  meal  the  knife  and 
fork  should  be  placed  close  together  on  the  plate,  the  knife  at 
the  right,  the  fork  at  the  leftj  and  the  handles  facing  the  sanic 
direction  in  which  they  were  originally  placed  on  the  table. 

The  spoon  is  useful  for  mixing  liquids  and  for  transferrin;: 
soft  foods  from  the  plate  to  the  mouth.  The  spoon  shQuU 
never  be  left  in  a  cup  or  high  glass  dish  after  its  use  as  a  stirrc  r 
or  feeding  implement  has  ceased,  since  it  gives  a  loose  handli^ 
which  endangers  the  safety  of  the  dish.  With  beverage*  ihf 
function  of  the  spoon  is  as  a  stirrer  and  taster,  and  not  a^  a 
vehicle.  This  is  because  it  is  easier  to  sip  a  beverage  quictl}' 
from  the  cup  than  from  the  spoon. 

Soup  should  be  sipped  from  the  side  of  the  spoon.  Whcrii. 
however,  a  soup  is  full  of  solid  substances,  and  if  the  spoon  i- 
a  soupspoon  and  not  a  tablespoon,  it  may  be  necessary  to  v^- 
the  solid  part  of  the  soup  from  the  tip  of  the  spoon  instead  ui 
sipping  it  from  the  side. 

Fork  and  spoon. — With  many  desserts  it  is  desirable  to  iri^** 
both  a  spoon  and  a  fork*  For  sample,  if  pie  is  served  ^viu" 
cream,  both  are  needed.  If  baked  apple  or  prun^  are  servcvl^ 
the  fork  helps  to  steady  the  food  on  the  plate  while  the  siii^ 
flesh  is  being  removed  from  the  core  or  seeds.  This  avoids  W 
removal  of  prune  seeds  from  the  mouth* 

The  glass, — Before  drinldag,  the  lips  should  be  wiped  ^vjt  * 
a  napkin.  Otherwise  the  number  of  sipe  may  register  theJ"* 
selv^  on  the  side  of  the  glass* 


I 


CHAPTER  XII 

THE  LAUirDRY* 

By  Flora  Rose 

Washing  has  a  threefold  purpose:  to  remove  dirt  and  thus 
it'open  the  pores  of  the  cloth,  to  dry  the  cloth  so  as  to  renew 
its  power  of  absorption;  aod  to  destroy  any  bacteria  that  may 
be  in  it. 

PABBIC3 

A  first  step  toward  gaining  necessary  knowledge  of  laundry 
methods  is  to  learn  something  of  the  nature  of  the  fabrics  to  be 
thundered  and  how  they  respond  to  the  cleansing  agents  or 
solvents  generally  used  in  the  laundry  (p,  305).  The  common 
fiiiers  used  for  clothing  are  of  vegetable  and  animal  origin.  The 
rhtef  vegetable  fibers  are  cotton  and  linen;  the  animal  fibers, 
wool  and  silk.  Among  the  common  laundry  cleansing  agents, 
railed  reagents,  are  two  claases  of  chemicals  known  as  acids  and 
bases^  or  alkalis. 

Even  cold  dilute  mineral  adds  may  seriously  injure  cotton 
and  linen  if  allowed  to  dry  on  the  materiaL  Fruit  acids  have 
no  action  on  cotton  and  linen  unless  allowed  to  dry  and  then 
moistened  and  ironed  diy.  Dilute  acid  does  not  affect  wool, 
but  it  weakens  silk. 

Weak  alkalis,  such  as  dilute  washing-soda  solution,  borax, 
and  soap,  have  little  or  no  harmful  action  on  cotton  and  linen, 
but  lye  is  more  destructive.  Dilute  solutions  of  borax  or  a 
tnild  soap,  if  only  lukewarm,  have  but  a  slightly  injurious  ao 
tioQ  on  wool,  but  they  weaken  silk  and  des/roy  its  luster. 


k 


♦Prom  Cbmell  Eesdiog^CoiirBe  far  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  11 

249 


k 


THE  LAUNDRY 


263 


selves,  and  should  be  separately  washed  and  boiled  for  twenty 
minutes. 

The  garment  to  be  soaked  should  be  wet^  the  more  soiled 
part  rubbed  with  soap  solution,  and  that  part  folded  in.  Each 
garment  should  be  folded  and  rolled  separately  and  packed 
into  the  tub  with  the  other  garments.  Folding  and  rolling 
prevents  the  dirt  in  the  soiled  parts  from  spreading.  The 
clothejs  are  then  covered  with  warm  soapy  water,  to  which  may 
have  been  addeci  an  alkali  such  as  borax  or  ammonia,  and 
an  oily  substance,  perhaps  turpentine,  kerosene,  or  benzine. 
Directions  for  making  soap  solutions  are  given  on  page  256. 
The  tub  should  lie  covered,  and  if  possible  the  clothing  allowed 
to  soak  in  it  during  several  houi"s  or  overnight.  If  colored 
clothes  are  to  be  soaked,  they  should  be  covered  with  warm 
water  or  with  water  verj'  slightly  soapy.  No  alkali  should  be 
used  with  the  colored  clothing. 

No  arbitrary  order  can  l>e  recommended  for  washing  clothes, 
but  fiamiels,  wliite  goods,  and  colored  goods  should  be  washed 
separately  as  the  washing  process  differs  somewhat  for  each  ca,se. 

A  few  simple  explanations  may  aid  the  houskeeper  in  solving 
some  of  her  problems.  Heat  tends  to  expand  the  threads  of 
the  cloth,  and  the  expansion  aids  in  removing  dirt  caught  be- 
tween the  threads.  If  the  cloth  is  cooled  during  the  washing 
process,  the  thread  contracts  and  the  dirt  is  again  entangled; 
consequently,  after  the  cloth  has  once  been  warmed,  one  of 
the  oljjects  of  the  launderer  should  be  to  maintain  an  even  or 
a  rising  temperature.  In  ttie  conmiercial  laundry,  an  even 
temperature  is  kept  by  turning  the  correct  amount  of  steam 
into  the  washing-machine.  In  the  home  laundrj^  boihng  water 
added  from  time  to  time  will  aid  in  keeping  an  even  tempera- 
ture. A  good  suds  is  necessary  in  the  washing  process.  As 
the  suds  falls,  that  is,  as  it  is  used  up  by  uniting  with  dirt,  more 
suds  should  be  supplied  by  adding  more  soap  or  soap  solution. 
If  insufficient  soap  is  used,  insoluble  black  specks  are  often  left 
on  the  clothing. 

All  uttuisils,  receptacles,  and  apparatus  should  be  immacu- 
lately clean. 


I 

J 


264 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOMK-MAKiNG 


Order  of  washing  while  Unen  and  colion  dothes : 

L  Put  wiitpr  nn  to  heat. 

2.  M  a  k  c»  sc mp  sol  ii  t  it  in . 

3*  Rinsci  (.'lothcis  fruin  wat^r  in  which  they  have  soaked* 

I.  Wash  clolht's  in  warm  sudn  in  following  order: 
a*  Table  linen  and  clean  towels 

b.  Bed  linen 

c.  Boily  linen 

d.  Handkerchiefs 

c.  Soiled  towels  and  clotha 
f.  StcM^kiDgs 
6,  Waah  again  in  clean  suds.    Wring. 

6.  Boil  in  clean,  BliRhtly  soapy  wat^r, 

7.  Rinse  in  clean,  clear  water.    Wring, 

8.  Rinse  in  bluing  water.    Wring. 

9.  Starch. 

1(K  Hang  t^  dry, 

II.  Remove  from  line,  dampen^  and  fold. 


Directions  for  washing: 

1.  Have  plenty  of  hot  water  before  beginning  the  washing.  If  possible 
t.be  water  abuuld  be  soft;  if  it  ia  not^  soften  it  oa  directed  on  pages  252 
and  253. 

2.  Make  a  soap  solution;  use  one  cake  of  soap  to  two  or  throe  quarta 
of  water, 

3.  Rinse  the  clothes  from  water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  removing 
as  much  of  the  dirt  as  possible.  Parts  of  the  clothing  that  are  very  much 
sailed  should  be  rubtxHl  a  little  and  rinsed  in  fresh  wat<T  befort^  the  gar- 
mentH  are  put  into  a  tub  or  a  wa^^hing-machinc.  The  precjiution  of  rinijing 
savee  wear  and  tear  on  the  whole  garment* 

4.  Pour  warm  water  into  tub  or  waHliing-machine ;  if  the  water  is  hard^ 
soften  it  with  washing-soda  solution  or  Ixjrax.  Add  enough  soap  solution 
or  aoap  to  make  a  good  suds.  A  tAV>leapaon  of  t  urpen!  ine,  kernswne,  «>r 
benaine  may  be  added  to  the  washing  water  us  well  as  to  the  water  in  which 
clothing  has  soaked.  Put  in  clothes  to  be  washed.  Rubbing  is  estsential 
for  soiled  garments.  It  may  be  aeeouiplisheil  in  one  of  two  ways:  by 
using  the  washboard  and  old-fashioned  tub,  or  by  using  a  wiLshing-marhine, 
It  is  well  to  have  a  l>oard  for  very  soiled  parts,  such  as  henw  and  edges, 
but  the  washing-machine  is  a  great  improvement  on  the  older  method, 

Wlienever  the  w^ter  becomes  dirty,  use  fresh  suds.  Clothes  cannot 
be  made  clean  without  the  use  of  plenty  of  water.  Keep  up  a  good  suds 
while  washing,  and  add  hot  water  from  time  to  time.  If  a  washing-machine 
is  ustxl,  do  not  put  enough  water  in  the  machine  to  tlofit  the  rlothfs;  if 
this  is  done,  they  will  csc^ipe  the  mcchunical  action  of  the  dasher  and  wili 


I 


THE  LAUNDRY  265 

not  hp  Riifficiontly  nihbctl.  Clothea  should  be  wrung  from  the  wash  %vater 
through  the  wringer.  The  screws  of  tlie  ^Tingi^r  shouTd  he  a<^ljusted  to 
lmni<  iUs  rolls  close  together  and  cJolhing  should  he  folded  so  ad  to  give 
it  aa  even  thieknetts  in  passing  thr<)Ugh  the  wringer;  for  heavier  gnrmenta 
loosen  the  screws  of  the  WTinger,  Fold  In  buttons  and  hooka  imd  turn  the 
wringer  slowl3\ 

5.  A  seeond  suds  k  generally  necessary,  though  it  may  l>e  omitted  if 
the  elothini;  has  been  only  slightly  siiiled.  Shake  out  clothes  wrung  from 
the  first  vsuds,  look  theiii  over  for  sotted  parts,  turn  theui  wrong  aide  out, 
and  drop  \  hem  into  a  second  suda.    Wash  find  wring  them  ready  for  boiling, 

6.  Cloth r^  should  be  clean  before  they  are  Hf>iletij  iis  the  Iwiling  process 
is  intf^nded  not  so  much  to  remove  visible  dirt  tm  to  df?i;5troy  germs  and 
purify  the  clothing  as  well  i\s  to  whiten  it.  Boiling  is  omitted  when  a 
naphtha  s^iap  is  um\\,  because  the  suap  loses  its  eflfect  in  very  hot  ^vater;  it  is 
livsserteil  that  boiling  is  not  needed  bcejiusii  naphtha  its^elf  is  a  purifier, 
Neverthr^es^,  at  Iciist  once  a  month,  the  clothing  washed  at  other  timca 
with  naphtha  soap  should  be  hoi  ted. 

Fill  the  boiler  half  full  of  cold  water;  if  the  water  is  hard,  soften  it* 
Add  enough  soap  solntion  to  make  a  light  suds.  Half  fill  the  boiler  with 
clothes,  wrung  and  shaken  out  from  the  List  suds.  Use  plenty  of  water 
and  do  not  put  too  many  clothes  irdo  tlie  Ixjiler,  Bring  the  water  very 
gradually  to  the  boding  point,  and  boil  it  ftir  tea  minutes. 

Kerosene  or  turpentine  is  sometimes  addrd  to  the  hoiliT  water  to  counter- 
act the  yellow  color  given  clothing  by  the  UfM*  of  the  dark  rt^in  soaps. 
It  lA  l>etter  to  avoid  kerosene  and  turpentine  at  this  point  if  possible,  because 
clothing  treated  by  them  requires  very  thorough  rinsing  to  remove  the 
odor.  Each  t)oilerful  of  clothes  should  be  started  with  t;lean  cold  water. 
Cloths  or  clothes  containing  lampblack  or  machine  oil  may  tie  placed 
in  the  hot  water  left  in  the  boder  after  the  last  clothes  have  l*een  wnmg 
fmm  it.  Kerosene  or  turpentine  should  then  be  addeti,  since  they  are  the 
Sfd vents  for  such  dirt. 

7*  Rinsing  is  an  important  part  of  the  washing  process,  for  if  soap  or 
Bf»me  of  the  strong  alkalis  an?  li^ft  in  the  doth,  they  may  be  very  detri- 
mental in  the  bluing  or  starching  process. 

If  water  is  hard,  it  should  be  softenwl  for  rinsing  with  either  borax  or 
ammonia  and  not  with  washing-scHJa.  The  rinsing  water  should  l>e  hot. 
The  clothes  should  be  slowly  lifted  with  a  clean  stick  from  the  lx)iler  into 
a  dishpan,  and  drained  or  wrmjg  and  shaken  before  Iwing  put  into  the  rinse 
water.  It  is  not  always  practicul>le  to  use  more  than  one  rinse  water 
Itefore  bluing  the  clothes,  but  better  residts  are  obtained  wlien  the  clothes 
are  rinsed  mnrf  than  once.  With  some  kinds  of  bluing,  the  presence  of 
Roap  or  an  alkali  precipitates  tlie  blue  as  iron-rust.  If  the  starch  used  is 
not  pure,  and  atiy  lye  or  W5ishing-.st)d!i  or  soap  has  betm  left  in  the  rloth, 
a  yellow  color  is  producetl  from  the  stareh  impurities  liy  the  action  of  those 
alkalia*    Wring  the  clothes  from  the  rinsing  water,  and  shake  them  out. 


I 
I 


A 


266  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

8,  It  is  !mpo6sib]6  to  give  any  rule  for  the  amount  of  bluing  to 
or  the  depth  of  color  to  be  decided  on.    Some  fabrics,  such  as  soft,  looeely- 
woven  ones,  absorb  more  bhiing  thim  others.    The  amount  of  bluing  to  he 
used  is  a  matter  for  expc*rimentation  by  the  launderer.     Clothes  should 
not  be  allowed  to  stand  in  the  billing  water^  a«  they  might  l>ecome  streaked. 

If  a  ball  bluing  is  used,  tie  it  in  a  thick  cloth,  wet,  and  wnj«}exe  it  into 
a  bowlful  of  hot  water.  Use  a  part  of  the  resiulting  flolulion  for  bluing 
the  water.  More  of  the  bluing  in  the  bowl  should  Ik*  added  to  the  bluing 
in  the  tub  from  time  to  time  as  the  clothing  takes  it  up.  As  Bome  kinds 
of  bluing  are  in  the  form  of  minute  particles,  the  bluing  water  should  be 
stirred  each  time  before  adding  clothes  to  it.  After  they  arc  wrung, 
unstarched  clothes  will  then  be  ready  for  drying. 

9,  Make  the  starch  according  to  directions  on  pages  25%  to  28L  Starch 
thof*e  garments  requiring  thick  Btnrch  first,  lieeause  moisture  from  the 
clothing  gradually  thins  the  starch,  and  a  medium  stiff,  medium  thin, 
and  tliin  starch  ^^aduatly  result. 

Stiff  sUirch:  Collars,  cufTn,  Mhirt  bosoDiK. 

Mrdium  ntiff  starch:  Shirt  waists^  eollara  and  cuffs,  coarse  Iat5e  cnirtailiaw 

Medium  tkin  /starch :  White  petticoat-s,  duck  skirts,  and  some  drcsBes. 

Thin  Blardk:  Skirts  and  dresses  when  a  stiff  finish  is  not  desired;  shirt 
watstB, 

Clear  «larch:  Infants*  dresses,  fine  kces,  curtains,  light-weight  table  linen 
when  it  is  demrable  to  give  it  some  body. 

Raw  starch:  Collars,  cuffs,  shirt  bosoms  when  an  extra  stiffness  is  desired; 
some  light  curtains , 

The  starch  shotild  Ix*  thoroughly  worked  into  the  cloth  so  as  to  distribute 
it  evenly  tlirough  the  threads  of  the  fabric.  Such  working  insures  a  smooth, 
even  st^ness  and  prevents  starch  spots  in  ironing.  All  garmentjs  starched  fl 
with  boiled  starch  should  be  dried  thonmghly  l>efore  Ix^ing  dampened,  ■ 
They  should  be  dampi^nt'd  several  hours  before  being  ironed.  If  articlf?a 
are  t«  be  raw-starched,  they  should  be  thoroughly  dried  first.  They  are 
then  dipped  into  the  raw  starch  and  niblx'd  as  for  washing,  squeezed  dry, 
and  spread  out  on  a  clean  sheet  or  cloth,  but  not  one  over  the  other.  They 
should  cover  only  half  the  sheet.  The  other  half  of  the  sheet  should 
be  folded  over  them.  Then  the  sheet  with  its  contents  should  be  rolled 
tightly  and  allowed  to  stand  for  two  or  three  hours  to  insure  even  distri- 
bution of  moisture. 

10,  When  possible  the  process  of  drying  should  accomplisih  more  than 
the  mere  removal  of  moisture.  Clothing  should  be  bung  where  it  will  be 
freely  exposed  to  the  action  of  fresh  air  and  sunshine.  Such  exposure  puri- 
fies and  bleaches  at  the  same  time. 

The  blunderer  should  be  provided  with  a  clothes-pin  bag  or,  better  nhll, 
with  a  clothesKpin  apron  having  a  deep  wide  pocket. 

When  possible,  linm  should  be  taken  down  each  week^  but  wht^n  tliey 
cannot  be,  they  should  be  well  wiped  with  a  damp  doth  before  hanging 


I 


THE  LAUNDRY 

up  cIothc«,  The  clothes-pina  should  b©  dean.  Each  article  abould  be 
turned  wrong  aide*  out  and  hung  with  the  threads  of  the  material  straight; 
the  gannetit  shoiild  tie  shaped  as  nearly  as  possible  in  its  natural  shape. 
Avoid  han^ng  piticts4  by  eornersi,  for  thus  hung  they  would  Ik*  pulled  out 
of  shape.  Fasten  garnieuts  by  their  bands  when  possible.  Table  linen, 
bed  linen,  and  towels  should  h^  well  stretched  and  hung  very  straight; 
the  larger  fiieces  should  be  pinned  in  at  least  four  placf!s,  as  it  ia  nearly 
impossible  to  iron  properly  a  piece  that  huMS  been  improperly  hung.  Careful 
hanging  greatly  rcducee  the  labor  of  ironing.  When  the  clothes  are  brought 
in  from  the  line»  the  clothes-pins  shc>uld  Ix;  put  into  the  apron  or  baaket 
kept  for  that  purpose  and  placed  where  they  will  be  clean. 

Starched  pieces  should  not  l>e  allowed  to  freeze  and  should  be  removed 
from  the  line  aa  soon  as  dry»  Long  hanging  reduces  their  BtilTneaa.  If 
flannel  undenvear  is  properly  stretched  and  hung,  it  may  be  folded  and  put 
away  without  further  treatment- 

11.  Clothes  should  be  dampened  some  hours  before  l^ing  ironed, 
because  during  the  interval  between  moistening  and  ironing  tlic  moisture 
becomes  distributed  evenly  and  does  away  with  the  necessity  of  using  a 
superfluous  amount  of  water.  The  dampening  is  best  done  at  night,  but 
onJy  as  many  articles  should  be  sprinkled  as  can  be  ironed  next  day,  for 
damp  fabric  mil  mildew  if  left  wet  for  a  few  days,  especially  in  hot  weather. 
Although  clothes  should  be  well  dampened,  they  should  not  be  drenched* 
Very  often,  trouble  in  ironing  starched  pieces  is  owing  to  overwetting. 
The  starched  part  is  soaked  and  made  limp  and  sticky.  A  clean  whisk- 
broom  kept  for  the  purpose  is  the  best  thing  to  um^  for  sprinkling  clothes. 
Some  persons  have  used  a  toy  sprinkling  pot.  There  ia,  however,  a  danger 
in  its  use,  for  it  may  rust  and  give  rise  to  rust  stK)t«  on  clothing.  Large 
pieces  should  be  sprinkled  and  folded  separately.  Small  pieces  may  be 
sprinkJed  and  Itiid  together  l>efore  folding.  Care  ahoukl  be  taken  to  fold 
and  roll  giirments  smoothly,  since  this  aids  in  their  ironing.  The  rolls  of 
dampened  pieces  should  be  packed  closely  in  a  basket  lined  with  a  cleaa 
cloth  and  covered  with  a  clean  cloth. 

Table  linen  and  other  linen  should  be  made  very  damp,  not  wet.  If 
table  hnen  in  sprinkled  with  a  mixture  of  one  part  alcohol  and  four  part« 
water,  the  result  after  ironiDg  will  be  a  shght  stiffness  resembling  that  erf 
new  linen. 

If  an  ironing  machine  is  used,  uni!tarch^  pieces  may  be  removed  from 
the  line  while  still  damp  and  ironed  immediately  without  the  preJiminaiy 
gprinkling. 

Washing  colored  clothing* 

Colored  goods  requii'e  more  careful  treatment  than  do  white 
goods.  The  conditions  that  most  affect  the  stability  of  colors 
in  fabrics  are:  long-cootinued  action  of  water  and  ^ap;  strong 


I 


I 


d 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


alkalis  or  acids;  strong  sunLight^  which  is  a  powerful  bleiiching 
agent  and  is  used  frequently  for  bleaching. 

In  wai^hing  colored  clothing,  the  factors  just  enumerated 
ehould  \ye  kept  in  mind.  Colored  clothing  should  not  be  soaked 
for  any  length  of  time  unless  its  color  is  known  to  be  veiy 
stable.  Any  soap  used  in  the  washing  process  should  be  a  mild 
soap  in  solution,  or  if  the  color  of  the  goods  to  be  washed  is 
very  delicate  the  soap  solution  should  be  replaced  by  soaji- 
bark,  liran,  rice  water,  potato  water,  or  cooked-starch  water. 
The  washing  process  should  Ix*  conducted  quirkl}^  and  in  water 
not  very  hot.  After  washing,  colored  garments  fihould  be 
turned  inside  out  and  hung  in  a  very  shady  or  dark  place,  and 
should  be  taken  in  as  t^oon  as  dr>\  Fading  is  more  often  due 
to  careless  drying  than  to  any  fault  in  washing.  Washing 
powders  and  strong  alkalis  should  never  Ix*  used  with  coloi-ed 
clothing.  If  the  water  nee<ls  softening,  borax  should  be  used* 
If  starch,  bran,  rice  water,  and  tlie  like,  are  5ul>stituLed  for 
soap,  the  mixture  should  l>c  employed  as  if  it  were  soai)- 
suds. 

In  starching  colored  clothes,  the  starch  should  be  rubbed 
in  thoroughly,  and  any  excess  of  it  wijjed  oti;  no  difficulty  will 
then  l>e  experienced  with  white  starch  spots. 

Sometimes  a  fabric  shows  a  decided  tendency  to  fade  even 
under  the  best  washing  conditions.  It  is  alwa3^s  well  if  them 
is  any  doubt  aliout  fading,  to  test  a  small  piece  of  the  cloth 
before  washing  it.  If  the  color  fades,  an  attempt  should 
be  made  to  set  it.  With  most  colors,  the  dyer  uses  chemical 
substances  which  cause  a  firmer  union  Ix'twecn  the  color  and 
the  cloth.  Such  substances  arc  called  intjrdanls.  The  process 
of  making  a  color  fast  may  sometimes  satisfactorily  be  used  by 
the  housekeeper  to  strengthen  weak  colors.  The  household 
mordants  are  vinegar,  brine,  and  sugar  of  lead,  used  in  the  fol- 
lowing proportions: 

To  1  gidlon  water  add: 

H  cup  mild  vinegar;  most  effective  for  blues 

2  cups  salt;  mcwt  effective  for  hmwrna,  blacks,  and  pinks 

1  tftbleapoon  «igar  of  kad  (poison);  most  effective  for  lavenders. 


THE  LAUNDRY 

Small  pieeas  of  cloth  siiould  be  tasted  in  e-ach  of  the  above  ■ 
solutionis  and  a  choi(*e  made  after  the  te.st.  The  cloth  of  which 
the  color  h  to  be  made  fast  should  Ix^  k-ft  in  tlie  mordant  solu- 
tion overnight  and  may  be  left  in  for  several  days  with  good 
results.  It  should  be  thoroughly  chied  before  lieing  washe^l 
Even  with  relatively  strong  coloi-s,  soakinLC  a  fabric  overnight 
in  a  brine  sohition  before  washing  it  for  the  first  time  may 
render  it  far  less  susceptible  to  fading  infiuences  than  it  other- 
wise would  be.  The  effect  of  brine,  however,  is  said  not  to  be 
lasting,  Coloreti  goods  are  often  rinsed  in  a  dilute  salt  solu 
tion  just  before  being  dried. 


I 


I 


Washing  woolens. 

Strong  soaps  should  never  be  used  in  washing  woolens,  nor 
should  soap  be  applied  directly  to  the  garment.  The  soap 
should  be  used  in  solution.  A  great  d<*al  of  stress  is  laid  on 
having  the  water  used  in  wasliing  flannels  not  much  more  than 
lukewarm,  for  at  a  lukewarm  temperature  soap  ami  water 
have  a  less  detrimental  action  on  wool.  It  is  even  more  im- 
portant tha!i  the  lukewarm  water  to  have  all  the  waters  used 
of  the  same  temperature^  in  order  to  avoid  changes  from  hot 
t-o  cold  water,  or  vice  versa,  as  sudden  changes  in  temperature 
cause  shrinkage. 

To  wa^sh  flannels,  two  receptacles  should  be  used.  Into  one 
of  them  water  tint  too  hot  for  the  hand  to  bear  comfortably 
should  be  pourefl  and  enough  soap  solution  made  from  a  neu- 
tral or  mild  soap  or  a  wool  soap  added  to  make  a  good  suds.  If 
the  water  is  hard,  or  the  clothing  is  very  much  soiled*  a  table- 
spoon of  borax  or  anuiionia  should  be  addeil  for  eacli  gallon 
of  water  used,  the  garment  shaken  or  bnished  free  from 
dust,  and  put  into  the  water  to  soak  for  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes.  Before  t>eginning  to  wash  the  flannels,  a  second  tub  of  ■ 
water  should  lie  prepared  having  the  same  or  a  slightly  higher 
temperature  than  tliat  of  the  tirst.  One  garment  should  be 
washed  at  a  time  by  firawing  it  thmugh  tlie  hands  anfl  wash 
ing  it  up  and  down  in  the  water;  rubbing  should  be  avoided 
if  possible  since  this  mats  the  fibers.    The  garments  are  passed 


270 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


from  the  first  to  the  second  water;  the  second  water  should  be  a 
suds  if  the  first  suds  has  oat  removed  all  the  aoiL  7'hey  should 
be  rinsed  free  of  soap  in  several  waters,  the  temperature  being 
kept  constant.  They  are  then  wrung  through  a  loosely  set 
wringer.  They  should  l)e  turned  wrong  side  out  and  hung 
in  a  warm  place,  but  not  near  a  tire  an  heat  will  cause  shrinkage. 
When  nearly  dry,  they  should  be  turned.  When  dridng  they 
must  he  shaped  by  pulling  and  stretching. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  ascribe  all  the  shrinkage  in  woolen  garments 
to  washing.  The  moisture,  heat,  and  movements  of  the  body 
may  cause  a  marked  shrinkage. 

If  flannels  are  to  be  pressed^  they  should  l>e  allowed  to  dry 
first  and  should  then  Ik?  covered  witli  a  slightly  dampened 
piece  of  cheese-cloth  and  ironed  with  a  moderately  hot  iron. 
The  cheese-cloth  draws  up  the  fibers  of  the  flannel,  giving  it 
the  fluffy  appearance  of  a  ne%v  garment.  Underwear  and  woolen 
stockings  should  be  tst retched  into  shape  and  should  not  be 
ironed.  For  very  soiled  garments  the  soap  formula  given  on 
pai^  256  will  be  useful. 

Blankets  are  washed  in  the  same  way  as  other  woolen  articles, 
except  that,  because  of  their  size,  only  two  blankets  or  only 
one  pair  of  them  is  wa8hed  at  a  time,  and  frc^h  water  is  tised 
for  each  pair.  After  wringing,  they  may  lye  stretched  and  dried 
on  curtain  stretchers.  If  strt^tchers  are  not  available,  blankets 
should  hang  on  the  line  until  perfectly  dry»  and  occasionally 
the  water  shoukl  be  squeeaed  from  the  hanging  ends.  To  press 
them,  they  should  \ye  folded  evenly  and  carefully  and  wrapped 
in  a  sheet.  They  should  Ix?  kept  smooth  and  unwrinkiedi  a 
fiat  board  placed  over  them,  weighted  heavily  and  allowed  to 
remain  thus  for  several  days. 

An  excellent  blanket  wash  may  be  made  according  to  tha 
follomrig  formula:  * 

1  large  cake  neutral  swap 
8  quarts  cold  water 

2  tahlapooBB  tx>m}c 
H  oyp  wood  alcohol 

*  lAuadering.    L,  Ray  Balderatoo. 


THE  LAUNDRY 


In  using  the  above  wash,  the  soap  should  be  shaved  into 
the  cold  water,  and  heated  at  a  low  temperatim:'  until  it  is  di«5- 
solved*  It  is  Hum  cooled  and  the  Ix^rax  adcknl^  mixe^l  with  the 
alcohol.  The  mixture  should  be  poured  into  ^ide-mouthed 
jars,  and  kept  air-tight.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  washing 
two  pairs  of  blankets. 

Sweaters  or  loosely  woven  or  knitted  garments  should  be 
washed  as  follows: 

1.  If  the  garment  is  silk,  wool  or  cotton^  follow  the  general  directions 
for  the  laundering  of  gj^rmenta  made  of  theee  fabrics.  A  woven  garment 
should  be  squeezed  with  the  hands  and  lifted  up  and  down  in  the  water 
rather  than  rubbed  on  a  board. 

2»  Measure  the  length  and  width  of  the  different  parts  of  the  garment 
before  wettinR  it.  For  example^  in  thf*  casc^  of  a  swohter,  measure  the 
length  of  the  front,  the  width  of  the  front,  the  length  of  the  back,  and  the 
width  of  the  back  in  several  places,  the  length  of  the  sleeve  along  the  seam^ 
and  the  length  of  the  shoulder. 

3.  Spread  one  or  more  clean  sheets,  folded  several  times,  on  a  fiat  surface 
such  as  a  table,  and  place  it  whore  there  is  a  gmicl  draft.  Outdoors  in 
the  sunshine  is  a  gooct  plare,  if  the  garment  to  be  dried  is  not  too  delicate 
in  color.  After  the  garment  has  !>ei*n  rinsed,  plac^  it  with  the  back  next 
to  the  folded  sht?et.  Bring  the  fronta  together,  and  place  the  sleeves  in  a 
nearly  outstretched  position. 

4.  After  the  garment  has  been  placed  a-s  suggested,  test  the  measure- 
ments with  those  taken  hcforc  it  w^aa  wet.  Htreieh  it  until  it  gives  the 
correct  measurements.    If  necessary^  pin  it  into  place. 

5.  WTien  the  garment  is  practically  dry  on  the  aide  exposed,  turn  it  and 
let  it  dry  on  the  other  aide.  It  may  be  uecossary  to  turn  the  aweaier  eeveral 
times. 

This  method  is  much  better  than  hanging  the  garment  on  a  coat^hanger 
after  washing,  because  the  size  may  be  kept  the  same  as  before  washing. 

Washing  silk. 

Silk  should  be  washed  in  much  the  same  way  as  wool.  While 
it  is  not  so  strongly  affected  by  soaps  and  alkalis  as  is  wool,  its 
gloss  is  destroyed  by  the  use  of  strong  cleansing  agents.  The 
deUcacy  of  the  fiber  makes  hard  rubbing  impossible,  for  it 
breaks  the  fibers  and  destroys  not  only  their  durability  but 
also  their  silkiness.  In  wringing  silk,  it  should  lie  placed  be- 
tween dry  towels  or  hea\^  cloths  and  put  through  a  loosely  ad- 
justed wringer.     It  slioidd  be  ironed  on  tlie  wrong  aide  while 


I 

I 

I 


272 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


still  damp,  witli  a  rnofJerately  hot  iron.     Silk  is  very  easUy 

scorched  and,  if  \hv  iron  is  too  hot,  ilm  silk  will  bo  stiff.  The 
iron  should  l»e  pushed  baek  anti  forth  wiili  a  wriggling  niotion 
to  give  softness  and  plial)ility  to  the  silk.  It  is  often  l)est  to  iron 
silk  under  a  cloth;  to  do  so  gives  le^ss  body  and  a  softer  finish. 
Ribbons,  if  of  good  quality,  may  be  very  Huccessfully  washed. 
To  iron  them  they  should  be  eovereil  witii  a  dry  cloth  and  the 
iron  moved  frequently  back  aod  forth  over  the  surface  of  the 
cloth  above  them. 

Wdshing  laces. 

It  is  often  best  to  dr^'-clean  fine  laee^i,  as  they  thicken  slightly 
in  waiihing.  To  wa^^h  them,  a  warm  neutral  poap-solution 
should  be  used  to  which  has  been  added  ammonia  or  borax. 
The  dirt  is  squer^ze*!  out  ljy  pressing  the  lace  in  the  hands  Init 
shoultl  not  be  rubbed;  riiljbing  lireaks  tlie  deheate  threatls.  A 
gootl  way  to  wash  fine  lace  is  to  baste  it  io  strips  of  chtx^se-i'loth, 
being  careful  to  catch  down  all  its  points.  It  should  then  liH? 
put  to  soak  overnight  in  warm  soapy  water  containing  a  little 
borax  or  ammonia.  It  should  lie  washcNl  liy  squeezing,  then 
rinsed  free  of  soap.  Old  yelluw  lace  may  be  hleachi*ii  by  stretch- 
ing it,  while  wet,  around  a  bottle,  and  standing  it  in  the  sun, 
rewetting  the  lace  occasionally.  Javelle  water  may  Iw*  used  to 
bleach  lace.  Lace  may  be  stifTened  by  rinsing  in  a  mixture  of 
two  tablespoons  of  alcolio!  to  one  cup  of  water;  ly  rinsing  in 
borax  water,  two  tablespoons  to  a  cup;  or  by  using  gum  arable, 
onf*-eighth  teaspoon  to  a  cup  of  water.  If  a  yellow  color  is 
desireri  the  lace  may  be  dipped  in  coffee  or  tea. 

Black  lace  should  be  cleaned  l>y  .stpieezing  it  repeatedly  in  a 
mixture  of  one  cup  of  strong  coffee  and  one  tablespoon  of 
ammonia.  It  should  be  rinsed  in  gum  arabic  water  made  with 
colTee,  to  give  natural  si ItlneHS. 

Lace  curtains  should  be  washed  with  as  near  an  approach  to 
the  can*  given  to  lace  as  is  practica!>Ie.  They  shoul<l  l)e  clear- 
starched, stretched,  and  pinner!  <Mit  on  sheets,  one  curtain  over 
another.  If  available,  it  is  better  to  ust*  curtain-stretchers 
than  sheets,  but  if  care  is  taken  to  square  off  the  first  curtjiia 


THE  LAUNDRY 


and  stretch  it  £?traight  and  even,  good  results  may  he  obt^ained 
by  piBning  the  curtains  to  sheets. 

BLEACHING 

Occasionally,  even  in  the  Iiouaehold,  it  may  be  necessary  to 
supplement  the  natural  bleaching  process  aeeouiplis^heil  by 
sunshine,  fresh  air,  and  green  grass,  by  the  use  of  ehemicals. 
If  a  garment  lias  yellovve<l  by  age  or  l>y  lieing  packed  away 
with  starch  in  it,  it  may  be  ex|}edient  to  use  a  ebeniica!  bleach. 

The  best  bleach  to  use  is  Javelle  water,  which  should  be  made 
as  follows : 

1  pound  waahing-aocia 

1  quart  boiling  water 
1^2  rwiumt  chit  I  ride  of  lime 

2  quarL-^  cmjIJ  water. 
Put  sndu  in  granite  pan;  add  boiling  water  and  stir  until  dissolved ;  let 

cool. 

DL^ssoIve  chloride  of  lime  in  cold  water;  let  settle  and  pour  the  clear  liquid 
intf>  the  soda;  let  settle.  Pour  off  clear  hquid,  bottle,  and  put  away  in 
dark  place. 

Use,  mixed  mith  equal  parts  or  more  of  water^  and  do  not  let  the  garment*? 
stay  in  over  }  i  hour.  Rinse  thoroughly  in  several  waters  and  I:istly  in  dilute 
amaionia  water. 

Moisture  i.s  necGSRar>^  if  clothos  are  to  be  blcaeheil  by  the 
action  of  the  son.  After  a  garment  dries,  it  shoultl  be  made  wet 
again  and  hun^  out.  It  may  be  necessary  to  repeat  the  wetting 
operatitjn  a  number  of  times  before  the  yellow  tiiip;e  yieldB.  It 
is  siiid  that  elothca  are  whitent^d  if  they  are  allowed  to  freeze 
out  of  dooi-y  on  the  fine.  The  reason  given  for  the  bleaching 
action  is  that  frei^zing  causes  the  clothes  to  retain  moisture, 
hence  the  time  of  their  bleaching  is  prolonged. 


IRONING 

For  ironing,  the  following  equipitient  should  be  provided: 
flat,  firm,  unwaiped  ironing-lxjard  or  talile,  tightly  covered  with 
a  blanket  and  clean  sheet,  securely  fastentKl  underneath;  clean 
irons;  an  iron  stand,  which  may  w^ell  be  a  clean  brick;  two  pieces 
of  old  cloth  for  cleaning  irons;  a  piece  of  paper  folded  several 


h     I 


276 


.1   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


in  a  poorly  ventilated  room,  the  clothes  will  have  a  bad  odor. 

Sprinkling  may  not  be  necessar>'  when  an  ironing-machine 
is  used  for  ironing,  if  the  operator  will  remove  the  clothes  from 
the  line  just  at  the  riglil  time,  that  is,  while  they  are  still  damp* 
The  process  can  l)e  carrie*!  through  so  quickly  that  it  is  unneces- 
sary to  keep  one  garment  damp  while  the  other  is  being  ironed. 

EQUIPMENT  FOR  THE  lAirNDRY 

It  is  always  best,  when  possible,  to  have  a  separate  room  for 
laundry  putposes.    Much  of  the  apparatus  can  then  be  made 


i 


Fio.  53. — A  metbod  of  folding  sheets  and  tablceloth^ 

stationar>^  and  iimny  little  labor-oaving  conveniences  devised. 
Some  dairj'  farms  have  running  water,  drains,  power,  steam, 
and  cement  Hoors.  It  would  l>e  a  simple  matter  on  such  a  faim 
to  equip  a  small  room  in  the  bam  with  the  necessao'  laundry 
apparatus.  Good  lighting  (page  201}  and  good  ventilation 
are  quite  as  nc^cessary  in  the  laundry  as  in  other  parts  of  the 
house.  The  floor  and  walls  should  l>c  of  such  a  nature  that 
they  can  be  kept  dry  and  ck^n  with  the  legist  labor.  Many 
of  the  suggestions  for  the  arrangement  of  kitchen  equipment 
(pages  lOl  to  109)  are  efjuaily  app!ical>le  to  the  laundry. 

Hantl-driven  machines  are  effective  la!>or-savers  even  though 
to  a  somewhat  smaller  dc^gree  than  those  run  l)y  other  power. 
Washing-machines  are  now  on  the  nuirket  with  wringer  at- 
tache<l,  which  run  by  power,  (hi  many  farms  the  gasoline  en- 
gine  has  already  become  a  fixture  for  grinding  corn,  separating 


I 
I 

I 


THE  LAUNDRY 

milkf  and  the  like.  The  same  source  of  [jower  might  also  he 
useil  to  run  the  wti.shiiig-mauhine  and  turn  the  wriiijj;er.  If 
riiTiniji^  wtiter  is  t-rouf^ht  to  the  liarii,  it  should  1>e  eontinued  to 
the  house,  anil,  if  tlie  water-power  is  sufficient,  a  water  motor 
may  he  purchased  that  can  be  used  for  runiiuig  the  washing- 
machine, 

Wasking-m  achine. 

The  home  laundry  should  t)e  equipped  with  a 
chine  and  at  least  one  stationary  tub,  if  running  w 
yefc  been  introduced  into  tiic 
house  and  the  banij  at  least  it 
is  possible  to  provi<le  a  drain  for 
the  kitchen  sink  and  the  launtlry 
tub.  This  makes  easier  the 
problem  of  getting  rid  of  dirty 
water. 

Washing-machines  in  c  I  ii  d  e  Fm.  54.— AnothiT  methud  of  fuiding 
five  types:  (1)  The  Dolly  type,  «*^^^«' 

which  cleans  the  clothes  l>y  agitation,  (2)  the  friction  type, 
somewhat  like  doyl)le  washboards;  (3)  the  tw^o-eylinder  type, 
which  cleans  the  clot  lies  liy  agitation;  ( t)  tile  suction  washers, 
including  tlie  simple  hand  machines;  (5)  the  eradie  type  which 
rocks  and  throws  the  clothes  from  side  to  side.  A  washing- 
raachine  should  never  be  overloaded  if  it  is  to  do  good  work; 
and  the  process  should  not  he  unduly  hurried.  Clothes  should 
be  removed  earefully  from  the  machine  to  prevent  tearing, 
Cheese-c*loth  or  net  bags  for  small  pieces  and  fine  materials  save 
trouble^ 

Ironing-machine. 

The  ironing-machine,  or,  as  it  is  often  called,  the  mangle,  is 
another  device  for  making  laundiy  work  easier.  It  may  suc- 
cessfully take  the  place  of  the  Imnd  iron  for  a  larger  part  of  the 
family  ironing.  There  are  tw^o  types  of  ironing-machines  on  the 
market:  (I)  cold-roll  ironing-machint/s,  in  which  the  jxtllers  be- 
tween wliich  the  garment  passes  are  made  of  wood  and  are  un- 


278 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


4 


heated,  depending  on  their  weight  and  pressure  to  remove 
wrinkles;  (2)  hot -roll  ironing-machines,  in  which  one  roll  is 
cold  and  is  covered  with  a  blanket  and  cloth,  just  as  for  an 
ironing-hoard,  and  the  other  roll  or  concave  plate  is  made  of 
smooth  iron  and  is  heatecL  The  cold  roll  revolves  against  the 
heated  metal  plate.  This  is  the  more  economical  and  satisfac- 
tory ironing-machine,  although  its  original  cost  is  greater.    The 


Fia.  55, — A  method  uf  folding  oiK^tdressefl  and  abirta. 

hot-roll  machine  may  be  heated  by  gas,  or  gasoline  by  a  slight 
change  involving  a  small  expense.  If  power  is  available,  the 
machine  may  be  run  by  power.  The  use  of  one  of  these  macliines 
reduces  greatly  the  time  required  to  iron  in  the  usual  way. 
Garments  with  gathers  and  sleeves  cannot  be  thus  ironed  to 
look  perfectly  smooth  and  well  shaped,  l>ut  all  bed  and  t^Ie 
lineo,  towels,  handken^iiefs,  stockings,  such  underwear  as  may 
not  require  perfect  smoothness,  kitchen  aprons  and  the  like, 
may  be  done  successfully  and  satisfactorily. 

Irons, 

A  number  of  irons  are  now  on  the  market  for  summer  use 
when  it  is  not  desirable  to  have  suflicieat  fire  in  the  raugje  to 


I 


I 


THE  LAUNDRY 

heat  the  irons.    Some  of  these  are  electric  irons,  gas  irons,  and 

deiiatiired-alcohol  irons. 

For  general  laundry  porposcs,  one  size  of  the  ordinary  sadiron 
is  sufficient,  hut  it  is  advisable  to  put  scverai  irons  into  a  well- 
equipped  laondiy,  to  use  for  the  various  kinds  of  work 
to  be  done.  Among  them  should  be  hea\y,  mediiun  heiiv>% 
and  small-pointeil  irons,  the  last  for  ironing  ruffles  and 
laces. 

A  frequent  cause  of  poor  ironing  is  the  condition  of  the  irons. 
They  must  be  kept  clean  and  free  from  rust  to  do  good  work. 
New  irons  should  be  heated  thoroughly  and  rubbed  with  w^ax 
or  grease  before  using.  If  irons  are  to  be  put  away  for  any 
length  of  time,  they  should  be  covered  with  a  thin  coating  of 
vaseline,  clean  grease,  or  paraffin,  or  wrapped  in  waxed  paper. 
If  starch  cooks  on,  it  should  be  removed  immediately  with  a 
dull  knife.  If  irons  become  dirty  from  careless  use,  or  from  being 
left  on  the  stove  during  the  preparation  of  the  meals,  they 
should  be  thoroughly  washed  with  soap  and  water  and  care- 
fully dried.  To  keep  irons  smooth  while  using  them,  they 
should  be  rubbed  with  w^ax  or  paraffin  and  wiped  immediately 
with  a  clean  cloth.  They  improve  with  wear,  if  they  have  good 
treatment.  _^ 

Tubs.  ' 

Although  a  w^ashing-machine  may  be  used,  there  should  be  one 
or  more  tubs  in  a  laundrj^  Stationary  tubs  are  best,  even 
though  running  water  is  not  available,  for  some  simple  method  ^ 
of  draining  them  can  be  devised.  The  tubs  are  b^t  made  of  ■ 
porcelain,  enamelcHi  iron,  or  alberine  stone.  White  tubs  are  a 
good  backgroimd  for  bluing  clothes.  WomleJi  tuba  may  l>e 
more  cheaply  constructed;  but  there  is  danger  of  the  wooden 
tub  becoming  unsanitarj''  from  careless  handling. 

A  stationary  tub  should  tJways  be  set  with  regard  to  the 
height  of  the  person  who  is  to  use  it  most.  Many  tubs  are 
set  far  too  low  and  necessitate  too  much  back  bending  on  the 
part,  of  the  operator. 

If  stationary  tubs  are  not  availablei  fiber  tubs  are  the  best 


I 


280 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-^fAKiXa 


to  buy  for  tlie  laundry,  as  they  are  light  and  easy  to  care  for* 
Galvanized  iron  and  ivooden  tubs  are  rheaper* 

Laundry  bench. 

The  laundr>^  lienrh  for  holding  tubs  should  be  of  the  proper 
height.  Most  beiu'hes  arc  far  too  low,  involving  effort  out  of 
proportion  to  the  task  to  be  accomplished. 

Wringer, 

A  wringer  should  be  a  part  of  the  laundry  equipment,  and  the 
best  on  the  market  k  always  the  cheapest.  After  a  wringer  is 
used,  it  should  l»e  carefully  dried  and  the  screws  pressing  the  roll- 
ers should  be  loosened.     When  not  in  use,  it  should  be  kept  cov- 


L 


Fio.  56. — A  sleev^board. 

ered  with  a  cloth  to  protect  it  from  dust  and  dirt.  The  Kiearings 
should  be  oiled  occasionally.  Oil  dissolves  rubber,  and  that 
property  of  oil  is  taken  advantage  of  in  cleaning  the  rubber 
rollers.  They  are  carefully  wiped  with  a  little  kerosene  which 
eats  away  a  thin  film  of  the  rubber,  exposing  a  fresh  surface. 
The  operation  shoukl  not  be  performed  frequently,  however, 
and  the  oil  should  he  carefully  and  completely  removed  im- 
tnciiiutely  after  its  use. 

Ironing-board. 

An  ironing-board  that  has  its  broader  end  attached  by  hinges 
to  the  w^all  is  a  great  convenience,  for  then  it  is  always  in  place 
and  can  be  put  out  of  the  way  by  folding  op  against  the  w^alb 

Ironing-blanket. 

The  ironing-1  banket  and  sheet  should  l>e  put  on  smoothly 
and  tacked  secui-ely  under  tfie  board,  using  short  brass-headed 


d 


THE  LAUNDRY 


tacks.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  a  separate  blanket  and  sheet 
also»  whieh  fit  the  tal>le  used  in  the  lanndiy,  because  a  taljle 
is  a  convenient  place  for  ironing  kirgc  pieces.  The  ironing 
sheet  should  be  kept-  clean. 

Slmm-hoard,  ■ 

A  sleeve-board  (Fig.  56)  is  good  not  only  for  sleeves,  hut 
for  gathers  and  for  small  dresses.  It  is  not  difficult  to  manu- 
facture at  home. 


t^^ 


Charader  of  tUensih, 

As  far  as  possible,  all  utensils  that  are  to  come  in  cont^ 
with  clothinp;  or  to  contain  material  to  be  used  on  the  clothing, 
should  be  non-rustable.  Tinware  is  not  good  for  lauiKir>"  use 
because  of  the  ease  with  which  it  rusts.  The  boiler  sliould 
have  a  copper  bottom  at  least,  and  is  best  made  entirely  of 
copper.    It  then  conducts  heat  better  and  does  not  rust,  , 

Other  equipment  and  suppli^s^ 

The  miscellaneous  equipment  necessary  for  efficient  laundry 
work  is  given  in  the  following  list: 


Rubbing-lwarJ 

Dipper 

DLshpan,  cnamd 
Tm  kettle 
Measuring  cop 
Quart  measure 
Iron  Iiolder 
Tefispoon 
Clothes  basket 
Strainer  for  stareli 
Beft^wax  or  paraffin  wrapped  in 
dotha  to  keep  irons  amooth 

Clotl 


Laundry  hag^ 

Cbthea  stick 

PaH,  enamel  or  filier,  for  emptying  J 

water  and  carrying  elothes 
2  BaucepauH,  etmuK^l*  on(>  for  starch  J 

and  one  for  soap  solution 
Iron  stand 
Tablespoon  . 
Caaa  knifo 
Clothea-liorse 
8erubt)ing  brtJshes 
Clot  lies-pin  aprons,  best  made  of  J 

tieking 
les-pius 


BaMerston,  L.  Ray. 
Chambers,  Mary  D, 


Refer  ENC68 

Laundering. 

A  Guide  to  liaundry  Work. 


CHAPTER  XIII 
STAIN  REMOVAL* 

With  some  stains  prompt  treatment  is  necessary  in  order  to 
save  the  article  in  question  from  beinj^  ruinedt  and  in  most  cases 
It  is  desirable,  since  all  stains  are  rcinoved  more  easily  when 
fresh.  Changes  in  the  character  of  the  stain,  brought  about 
by  dr>ing,  exposure  to  air,  washing,  ironing,  or  in  other  ways, 
often  make  it  necessary  to  use  eheroieals  in  removing  old  stains, 
whereas  in  many  cases  much  simpler  methods  are  successful 
if  the  stains  are  treatt^  when  fresh. 

The  nature  of  a  stain  should  he  known,  if  possible,  before 
it^  removal  is  attempted,  since  this  deteiTQines  the  treatment 
to  be  adopted.  Moreover,  if  an  unsuitable  stain-remover  is 
used,  the  stain  may  he  ''set^*  so  that  its  removal  becomes  dif- 
ficult or  even  impossible.  For  example,  if  hot  water,  which 
easily  removes  most  fresh  fruit  stains^  is  applied  to  stains  con- 
taining protein,  such  as  stains  of  milk,  blood,  eggs,  or  meat 
juice,  it  coagulates  the  albumin  in  the  fibers  of  the  cloth 
and  makes  it  extremely  difficult  to  remove.  Similarly,  soap, 
which  aids  in  the  removal  of  grease  spots,  sets  many  fruit 
stains. 

The  kind  of  fabric  upon  which  the  stain  occurs  also  should 
be  known.  The  method  of  treatment  adopted  depends  as  much 
on  flic  nature,  <;oIor,  weave,  finish,  and  weight  of  the  fabric  as 
on  the  kind  of  stain.    Cotton  and  linen  are  destroyed  by  strong 

•  Tliia  rhaptpr  contains  almost  the  whole  of  Farmors*  Bull.  861,  Removal 
of  Still nK  from  Clothing  and  Other  Textiles,  by  Hari^ld  L.  Lang  and  Anna 
H,  WhittdHt-y  fit  rhe  U.  H.  Dr»pt.  of  Afrr.  Since  this  by  lie  tin  i^  tlie  report 
of  the  mo«t  ext4^nsive  and  earrfal  work  on  stain  rcniovul  that  has  lx»eii 
done  for  the  bonefit  of  housekeepers,  it  has  been  only  slightly  adapted  for 
reprinting  here. 

282 


STAIN  REMOVAL  283 

acids  and  attacked  to  some  extent  even  by  weaker  ones.    Con-  m 
cent  ratal  acids,  thorc^fore,  should  never  be  used  ia  removing 
st'iins  from  these  fabries^  and  when  tttlute  aeids  are  used  they  ■ 
should    be    nt'iilralized    afterwards  with  a  suitable  alkali   or^ 
removed  by  thorough  rinsing;  otherwise  the  acid  may  become 
concentrated   on   drying   and   destroy   the  fibers.     Generally 
speaking,  alkalis  do  not  attack  cotton  or  linen  fabrics  to  the 
extent  that  acids  do.     However,   long-continued  or  repeated 
exposure  to  alkalis,  especially  in  hot  solution,  weakens  the  fi- 
bers.   The  damage  to  fabrics  resulting  from  the  careless  use  of 
strongly  atkaline  soaps,  washing  powders,  w^ashing-soda,  or 
Iye»  is  well  known  to  the  housekeeper.  ■ 

Wool  and  silk,  being  more  delicate  than  cotton  and  linen ^  re- 
quire more  careful  treatment.    The  use  of  ver>^  hot  water  must 
be  avoided,  since  it  turns  both  woo!  an{l  silk  yellow,  shrinks 
wool  J  and  weakens  silk  and  injures  its  finish.    These  materials  _ 
also  w^ill  not  stand  much  rubbing,  as  this  felts  together  the  ■ 
wool  fil>ers  and  results  in  a  shrinking  or  thickening  of  the  ma- 
terial, while  the  silk  fabrics,  as  a  rule,  are  too  delicate  to  stand 
much  rubbing  without  breaking  or  sepai*ating  the  fibers.    Both 
wool  and  silk  are  dissolved  by  strong  alkalis  and  are  injured 
even  by  washing-soda  or  strongly  alkaline  soap.     The  only 
alkalis  which  should  be  used  in  laundering  or  removing  stains 
from  wool  and  silk  are  the  milder  ones  like  borax  or  dilute  solu- 
tions of  ammonia.    Acids,  with  the  exception  of  nitric  which 
weakens  and  turns  the  fibers  yellow,  do  not  attack  wool  and  ■ 
silk  readily,  | 

In  general  it  is  more  difficult  to  remove  stains  from  wool  and 
silk  than  from  cotton  or  linen.  In  removing  stains  from  ma- 
terials made  from  tw^o  or  more  kinds  of  fibers,  such  as  silk  and 
cotton  mixtures,  the  effects  of  the  stain-removers  on  all  of  the 
fibers  should  be  considered.  No  chemical  should  be  used  which 
w^ould  injure  the  most  dehcate  of  the  fibers  present. 

It  is  also  much  more  difficult  to  remove  stains  from  colored 
than  from  white  materials,  for  the  reason  that  most  of  the 
blear-hing  agents  which  must  be  us(xl  to  remove  persistent  stains 
are  likely  to  destroy  the  color  of  the  material  aa  well. 


284  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

METHODS  FOR  TREATMENT  OF  STAINS  IN  GENERAL 

The  following  paragraphs  deal  with  methods  and  reagents 
commonly  used  in  the  removal  of  a  mim!>er  of  8 tain 8,  To  save 
repetition,  these  are  given  hero  in  detail  and  reference  b  made 
to  them  in  dealing  with  the  particular  stains  in  later  pages. 

Laundering. 

Ordinary'  laundering,  mentioned  frequently  as  a  method  for 
removing  stains,  should  be  done  aa  follows:  First,  soak  the 
stained  portion  in  cold  or  lukewarm  water,  rubbing  the  stain 
with  a  neutral  soap  if  necessary.  Follow  this  \ry  thorough 
rinsing  in  clean  water,  after  wliicli  the  article  may  be  laundered 
as  usual.  This  method  should  be  used  only  for  cotton  and  Hnen 
(white  or  fast  colors)  and  the  so-called  wash  silks  and  washable 
woolens.  If  the  materials  arc  delicate,  they  should  be  sponged 
according  to  the  following  directions. 

Sponging, 

Sponging  is  applicable  to  all  fabrics,  but  especially  to  deli- 
cate materials  or  colors  which  ordinary  laundering  might  in- 
jure. The  stained  article  should  l>e  spreafi  on  a  flat  surfa(*e  in 
a  good  light,  and  beneatli  the  stain  a  cloth  foklcd  into  several 
tiiicknesses  or  clean  wlijle  blotting  pai>er  shouki  be  placet!  to 
absorb  the  sufx^rfluous  lifjuid.  The  pad  must  lie  changed  for  a 
fresh  one  as  soon  as  it  Ijecomes  soilwL  The  sponging  should  be 
done  with  a  clean,  soft  lint  less  cloth  (preferal)ly  of  the  same 
material  as  that  stained)  and  renewed  as  frequently  as  may  bo 
necessarJ^  The  stained  material  should  be  laiti  with  the  wrong 
side  up  and  the  water  applied  to  the  back,  so  that  the  foreign 
sulistances  can  l)e  washe<l  from  the  fibers  onto  the  pad  without 
having  to  pa^s  through  the  material 

Applicntion  of  chetniails. 

Chemicals  should  not  l>e  used  until  water  or  laundering  has 
been  tried,  for  they  attack  the  filwjrs  of  the  cloth  as  well  as  the 
stain. 

There  are  a  few  common  chemicals  which  are  necessary  in 
removing  some  stains,  and  these  should  be  kept  in  ever>^  huuse- 


I 


I 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


I 


hold.  A  j]?ood  plan  is  to  have  a  small  copboard  in  the  laundry 
whore  these  ehemieals  may  be  kept  together  with  the  utensils 
used  in  applying  them.  As  some  of  these  eheraieals  are  poison- 
ouSj  they  should  not  be  kept  in  the  family  medicine  cabinet  or  M 
pantry.  Chemicals  most  eommonly  used  in  removing  stains  " 
are  Javelle  water  (p.  273),  potassiiun  permanganate  (solu- 
tion), oxalie  acid,  aumionia  water,  hytlrogen  peroxide,  French 
chalk,  and  eream  of  tartar.  These  chemieals  may  be  bougiit 
at  any  drug  store. 

With  these  chemicals  sliould  be  kept  some  of  the  utensils 
used  in  applying  them;  siuh  as  a  medium-sized  liowl,  a  med- 
ieine-tlropper,  a  glass  rod  wilh  rounded  ends,  sev^exal  pads  of 
cheese-cloth  or  old  muslin,  and  a  small  sponge. 

If  the  effect  of  the  stain-remover  on  the  fiber  or  color  is  not 
known,  it  should  be  trietl  Ijy  applying  a  little  to  a  sample  or 
to  an  unexposed  portion  of  the  goods.  Sometimes  it  is  best 
to  remove  the  stain  even  if  some  of  the  color  is  removed  also, 
for  the  color  often  may  he  restorcxl  by  careful  tinting.  ^ 

One  should  work  rapidly  when  using  chemicals  to  remove  I 
stains,  so  a.s  to  give  them  as  little  time  as  possible  to  act  on 
the  textile  fibers.  Many  brief  ai^plications  of  the  chemicals, 
with  rinsing  or  neutralization  after  each  apphcatton,  are  pref* 
erable  to  the  practice  of  allowing  them  to  remain  on  the  stain 
for  a  long  time.  The  stained  portion  of  the  garment  should  be 
stretched  over  a  bowl  of  clean  water  and  the  chemical  applied 
with  a  medicine-dropper.  The  chemicals  may  be  rinsed  out 
quickly  by  dipping  m  the  clean  water.  Another  method  ia  ■ 
to  place  the  stained  portion  over  a  pad  of  foldetl  cloth  and  ap- 
ply  the  chemical  with  a  glass  rod.  The  rinsing  or  ncutrahziog 
always  mnai  be  thorough.  M 

Javelle  water  may  be  uscil  successfully  in  removing  a  num-  ■ 
ber  of  stains,  but  should  be  applied  only  to  uncolored  cotton 
or  linen  materials,  since  it  bleaches  colors  and  rots  sitk  or  wool. 
In  treating  stains  with  Javelle  water,  the  stainetl  portion  should 
bestrelclu'<l  over  a  howl  fillt^l  with  water  and  the  Javelle  water  M 
applied  to  the  stain  w^ith  a  meciicine-th-opper.    The  Javelk*  water  ■ 
should  not  be  allowed  to  remain  in  contact  with  the  stain  for 


286 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


more  than  one  minute  and  then  oxalic-aeid  solution  should  be 
applietl  to  neutraKze  the  Javelle  water  and  the  stain  rinsed  by 
dipping  in  the  bowl  of  water, 

Comniereial  ink-removers  are  similar  in  action  to  Javelle 
water  and  are  veiy  convenient  for  removing  many  ataina  be- 
sides ink  spots. 

Potassium  permanganate  can  be  used  in  removing  stains 
from  all  wliite  fabrics*  It  also  may  be  usetl  surre^sfully  ufxin 
many  coloretl  materials,  but  should  always  Ix*  tried  first  on 
an  unexpo^^d  portion  of  the  goods,  to  determine  it^  effect  on 
the  dye.  It  does  not  hami  delicate  fil>ers,  provided  it  is  used 
with  reasonable  care.  One  should  first  remove  as  much  of  the 
stain  as  jxjssible  by  spon|2;ing  or  washing  with  cold  water.  The 
permanganate  should  be  prepared  and  used  as  follows;  Dis- 
solve 1  teaspoonful  of  (he  crj^stals  in  a  pint  of  water  and  apply 
a  little  of  this  to  the  stain  with  a  medicine-ilropper,  a  glass  rod, 
or  a  clean  cork,  and  allow  it  to  renuiin  for  about  five  minutes* 
Remove  any  pink  or  brown  stain  left  by  the  {x*nnanganaie, 
by  applying  one  of  the  following  chemicals:  L  Hydrogen  per- 
oxide, made  slightly  acid  (if  not  alreiidy  so)  with  oxalic  acid. 
One  drop  of  the  acid  usually  is  enough  to  acidify  3  teaspoons 
of  the  peroxide,  2.  Oxafic  acid  in  saturated  solution  or  lemon 
juice  for  cotton,  linen,  or  silk.  Hydrogen  peroxide  is  more  sat- 
isfactory for  wool.  The  treatment  should  be  followed  by  thor- 
ough rinsing.  One  or  more  repetitions  of  tliis  treatment  may 
be  necessary  in  the  ciise  of  persistent  stains. 

Oxalic  acid  is  poisonous  and  should  be  use<:l  carefully;  the 
bottle  in  w^hich  it  is  kept  must  be  marked  "Poison*'  and  kept 
out  of  the  reach  of  children.  To  prepare  a  solution  of  oxalic 
acid  for  use,  as  many  of  the  crystals  of  the  acid  as  possiljle 
should  be  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  lukewarm  w^ater.  This  should 
be  put  into  a  bottle,  stoppered  tightly,  and  used  as  needed.  This 
solution  may  be  applied  to  the  stain  with  a  medicine-dropper 
or  glass  rod  and  after  allowing  it  to  remain  for  a  few  minutes 
the  garment  should  be  rinsed  thoroughly  in  clean  water. 

Hydrogen  peroxide,  as  obtained  for  medicinal  puiposes,  usu- 
ally ifl  made  aUghtly  acidi  to  give  it  better  keeping  quality. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


For  use  in  removing  stains  a  srnaJl  amount  of  the  pemxide  should 
be  made  slightly  alkaline  with  ammonia.  Sinee  hydrogen  per- 
oxide affects  the  fiber  also,  in  the  ease  of  cotton  and  Hnen  ma- 
terials, it  must  be  followed  by  very  careful  rinsing.  It  may  be 
applied  to  the  slain  with  a  medicine-dropper,  a  glass  rod,  or 
a  clean  cork,  or  the  stain  sponged  with  it*  The  methcxl  of 
using  it  in  neutralizing  potassium  permanganate  is  described 
above. 

SPECIFIC   METHODS   FOR   INDIVIDUAL  STAINS 

In  case^  in  which  the  nature  of  the  stain  is  not  known,  it 
should  be  attacked  first  by  sponging  with  cold  watex,  prowded, 
however,  that  the  fabric  would  not  l>c  injured  by  water*  If  the 
stain  is  not  removed  by  cold  or  w^arm  water,  chemicals  should 
then  be  apphed*  Often  the  beha\ior  of  a  stain,  when  treatefl 
with  cold  w^ater,  w^ill  give  some  indication  of  its  nature;  for 
ejtaraple,  a  grease  spot  will  not  absorb  water.  Hot  water  should 
be  avoided  in  treating  unknown  stains  until  after  other  sub- 
stances have  been  tried,  since  hot  water  will  set  many  stains 
and  make  their  removal  more  diflScuIt, 

Arifh. 

With  the  exception  of  nitric  acid^  acids  do  not  generally  produce  stains 
upoEL  whit*!  falmca  but  often  change  or  destroy  the  color  of  dyed  mat^riala* 
However;  cotton  uml  linen  fihera  are  destroyed  readily  liy  some  acids, 
especially  by  those  of  pjreater  concentration  or  strength.  Dijute  acids 
do  not  att4ick  wool  and  silk  fibers  to  any  great  extent  unless  they  are 
allowed  to  dry  on  the  cloth  and  b(*eorae  ooncentrated,  but  they  do  some* 
timea  affect  the  color  of  the  fibers.  It  is  essential,  therefore,  that  acid 
0|}OU  on  textiles  be  neutnilizcd  at  once  by  some  alkaline  solution.  For 
thi«  p«rf>*'«**  ^^y  ^^^^  *'f  t^"'  following  should  give  good  results: 

L  Water,  liinse  the  spot  several  times  in  a  large  volume  of  water. 
This  treatment  Sierves  to  stop  any  further  action  of  the  acid  on  the  fabric, 
but  usually  has  no  effect  on  any  discoloration  due  to  the  acid. 

2.  An  alkaline  aubstance,  such  as  washing-^mla,  ammonia,  or  borax. 
Apply  an  alkali  to  the  acid  epot.  The  alkali  forms  a  salt  with  the  acid 
and  this  must  IjKi  rt^moved  later  liy  rinsing  or  .sponging  with  water.  The 
add  should  l>e  neutrali/-<>d  completely  with  the  alkali  or  the  di^scolo ration 
may  reappear  after  a  while.  Either  of  the  following  alkalis  may  be  used: 
(a)  Ammonia.  If  the  sixit  is  slight,  neutraliase  it  by  hiilcimK  it  in  the  fumea 
from  an  open  Iwttlc  of  strong  ammonia.  (5)  Sodium  bicarbonate  (baking 
8oda}.    Sprmkle  this  on  the  stain — on  both  sides,  if  poeaible^ — ^molsten 


I 


288 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


4 


mill  water^  antl  allow  to  stand  until  the  acid  is  neutralized  (shown  ia 
tUm  case  by  the  ceasing  of  the  effervescence) ;  and  remove  the  exoew  by 
rinsing  with  water. 

Alkalis^ 

Dikite  alkalis  have  lit  tin  ctfert  on  cotton  and  linen,  but  strong  alkalis 
cause  tho  fil>fira  to  swrll  and  bi^comt-  yellow,  and  the  rloth  to  contract. 
The  fiber^  however,  is  not  weakencMJ  unless  the  alkali  in  aUowc<i  Ui  remain 
a  long  time  upon  the  cloth  or  to  boeonie  very  coneentnited  through  C'vaf> 
oration.  Wool  and  silk,  on  the  other  tuiiid,  are  yellowed  or  destroyed  by 
strong  alkalis  even  in  dilute  solutions.  Even  if  the  fiber  is  not  afTet!ted 
by  the  alkali,  the  color  may  be  changed  or  destroyed.  It  is  imyxirtant, 
therefore,  to  Deutralixe  alkali  spots  at  once.  Any  <:if  tbc  following  agents 
may  be  u»ed: 

L  Water.  Rinse  thoroughly.  Frequently  this  is  sufficient  in  the  esse 
of  such  alkalis  as  washing-ftoda  and  ammonia. 

2.  A  mild  acid.  Apply  the  aciJ  with  a  doth  imtil  the  fabric  changes 
back  t<)  its  original  color,  or  tintil  the  stain  is  slightly  acid  as  shown  by 
the  odor  or  sour  ta^te.  Then  rirLHc  the  fabric  thorr^ughly  in  water.  In 
the  case  of  coloretl  goods  it  is  helpful  to  rub  the  stain  dry,  using  a  piece 
of  the  same  materia!  as  the  stxiined  fabric,  if  possible.  Use  either  of  the 
following  mild  acids: 

(a)  Lemon  juice.  8qtieeze  the  juice  on  the  stain.  As  long  aa  the  spot 
remains  alkaline  the  juice  is  a  bright  yellow  in  color,  hut  when  the  spot 
beconjes  aeid  the  cnlor  disappears  almost  entirely.  Apply  the  lemon  juice 
until  this  color  change  tnk*^  p]Q,ce. 

(b)  Vinegar.  If  the  vinegar  itself  leaves  a  sjiot,  remove  it  by  sponging 
with  water. 

Stood, 

Any  of  the  following  agents  may  be  used: 

1.  Cold  or  lukewarm  water.  Either  soak  the  blood  stains  or  rub  them 
in  the  water  until  they  turn  hght  brown  in  color;  that  is,  until  most  of  the 
coloring  matter  is  dissolved.  Then  wash  the  material  in  hot  water,  as 
in  the  ordinary  proci^ss  of  liiundering.  For  stains  on  silk  or  wool,  sponge  in 
cold  or  lukewarm  wat^^'r. 

2.  Soap  (for  washable  materials).  Rub  the  stained  portions  with  soap 
and  place  in  cold  water,  either  allouHng  them  to  stand  in  it  until  the  stains 
are  l<M>sened  or  bringing  the  water  very  slowly  to  the  Ixiiling  point. 

3.  Ammonia  (for  wa*^hatjle  materials).  Use  about  1  ounce  (2  tables|30on- 
fuk)  of  household  ammonia  to  I  gallon  of  water.  Soak  the  stains  in  this 
until  ttjey  are  loosened  and  thpn  wash  in  the  usual  manner.  For  old 
stains  ammonia  is  somewhat  more  switiKfactory  than  soap. 

4.  Hydrogen  perojdde.  Sponging  with  a  little  hydrogen  peroxide  often 
will  remove  the  last  traces  of  blood  st^ns  after  the  main  part  has  beea 


I 
I 


I 


k 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


removfil  as  closcrihcd  in  No,  1  above.    This  ai^ont  can  be  used  on  wtx>l 
and  silk,  provided  it  does  not  injure  the  color  uf  the  niEitcrial. 

5.  liaw  starch  mixc'ii  \vi(h  cold  water  to  a  pa>;te  is  rfhcicnl  for  stains  on 
thick  materials,  such  us  Hiinrn^I  und  blanket h,  vvliich  cannot  conveniently 
be  i^ak(>d  in  water.  Apply  the  paste  thickly  to  the  sUnn  and  brush  it 
away  when  it  becomes  dry.  Repeat  the  application  until  the  stain  ia 
removed. 

Biuirtg. 

ThrtH^'  types  of  laundry  bluing  are  in  common  use,  namely,  ultramarine^ 
Fru:^«iian,  and  aniline  blues.  Since  they  differ  chemically,  spotii  due  to  them 
retjuire  different  treatinent.  It  is  not  difficult  to  tlctcrminc  to  whit-h  type 
a  lilue  helonps,  and  methods  for  doing  this  are  suggested  in  the  following 
param-aphs : 

The  comniercial  blues  which  come  in  balls  or  blocks  with  directions  to 
i^Tap  them  in  a  piece  of  flannel  or  other  cloth  and  shake  them  about  in 
the  water  to  l>e  blued  are  genendly  ultramarine.  To  remove  such  staina, 
the  following  prrnx-dure  may  he  folio wt^: 

L  Cold  water,  ♦Soak  fresh  stains  or  rinse  them  in  an  abundance  of 
cold  water. 

2.  Stiap  and  water.  Wash  the  stains  as  in  ordinary''  laundering,  with 
nn  abundance  of  s<mp,  and  rub  thoronghly.  This  treiitmeni  will  remove 
flt4iins  which  are  not  removed  by  soaking. 

Liquid  bluing,  which  is  used  connnonly  in  the  home  laundr>%  usually  is 
tt  PnuHsian  blu(\  It  is  j^reeninh-blue  in  c<*lor  and  8nlublc  in  watiT.  ChHhcs 
are  occasionally  overbhied  with  Prussian,  bs  with  other  bluings,  or  may 
beci>me  streaketl  with  the  l>luing  if  it  has  not  liecn  mixed  evenly  with  the 
wat-er*  To  overcome  this  condition  the  following  treatment  is  recom- 
mended : 

L  Cold  water.  Rinse  the  stains  in  an  abundance  of  cold  water.  This 
is  effective  only  for  very  fresh  stains. 

2,  Boiling  water.  Boil  the  stained  material  for  about  half  an  hour, 
or  until  the  stains  disappear. 

Prussian  blue  is  sometimes  the  cause  of  yellow  diseolorations  or  spot-8 
upon  wliite  clothes.  If  the  clothes  are  not  rinsed  free  from  strong  soap, 
washing-sfjda,  or  other  alkali  used  in  \va.shing,  before  tliey  are  Idued  with 
Prussian  blue,  the  alkali  remaining  on  the  clothea  precipitates  ferric  hy- 
droxide from  the  bluing  whieh  i*  dop>sittMl  upon  the  clothes.  This  is  set 
by  subsequent  drying  and  ironing,  and  is  identical,  chemically,  with  iron- 
rust.  For  methotls  of  removing  these  stains,  see  **  iron  rust "  staina, 
page  297. 

The  aniline  or  coal-tar  blues  probably  are  iise*i  less  commonly  in  the 
household  than  the  other  blues,  but  are  employed  frequently  in  commercial 
laundriei?.  They  are  sfild  usually  in  t!m  form  of  small  crv'stals  or  of  a 
powder  having  a  dark  blue  or  iridescent  color  and  are  8iihible  in  water. 
To  remove  aniline  blues,  one  of  the  following  methods  should  be  used: 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


\.  Cold  water.    *Soak  the  stained  material  for  sovpiuI  houni  or  ovemiglit. 
2,  Ikiiling  water.    Boll  the  staiDs  for  15  minutes  or  until  they  disappear* 

StAins  due  to  butter  ore  esBentiiilly  grease  spots  and  should  receive  the 
same  treatment. 

Candle  wax  (colored),  H 

Thi^e  stains  coiusist  of  paraffin  in  whirh  an  organic  dye  is  dissolved 
lt*'m<iv«?  the  paraffin  as  completvly  as  poHniblp  (page  IMM)},  and  then  dissolve 
the  ttjlfiring  matter  rrmaining  in  the  fiber  by  8fx>nging  it  with  alcohol. 
If  a  aligiit  grease  spot  still  remains,  remove  it  by  gix>nging  with  soap  and 
water.  h 

Chocolate  and  cocoa.  ^1 

For  removing  chocolate  and  cocoa  stains  the  following  agents  are  satis- 
factory: 

L  Soap  and  hoi  water  (ordinary  laundering;  see  page  284). 

2.  liorax  and  cold  water.  Sprinkle  the  stains  with  borax  and  soak 
them  in  f^ild  water,  then  rinse  them  thoroughly  in  boiling  water.  This 
method  in  applicatjle  oidy  t*)  stains  on  washable  materials, 

3.  Lukewarm  water.  For  stains  on  delicate  fabrics,  sponge  with  luke* 
wann  watex. 


Coffee. 

Cream  in  the  coffee  sometimed  necessitates  the  use  of  gi^aae  solventa  in 

addition  to  other  reagents. 

One  of  thc^  following  a^^ents  should  be  employed: 

1.  Soap  and  water.  Fresh  stains  and  most  old  ones  on  washable  ma- 
terials can  lie  removiHJ  liy  ordinary  laundering,  A  slight  trace  of  the 
slAin  sometimes  remains  in  the  casp  of  v^ery  heavy  or  old  stains,  Drj^ing 
the  material  in  the  nun  frequently  helps  to  remove  the  last  traces. 

2.  Poti^ssium  permanganat*',  Slight  stains  remaining  after  treatment 
with  soap  and  water  can  be  removed  with  this  agent. 

3.  Bi-iiling  water,  poured  on  the  stain  from  a  height  of  2  or  3  feet.  This 
is  effective  on  stains  whieh  are  not  more  than  a  few  hours  old. 

4.  Cold  or  lukewarm  water.  Sfxjnge  the  stains  from  wool  or  silk  ma- 
terials. If  a  grease  siMjt  from  crfrnm  remains  after  the  spot  has  dried, 
reuiove  it  by  the  use  of  greiise  solvents. 

5.  Damp  cloths  and  a  hot  iron.  Fairly  good  results  are  obtained  in 
removing  small  coffn:*  staim  from  light^Nilored  silk  material  by  plaeing 
the  stain  l>etween  clean,  damp  cloths  and  pressing  the  whole  with  a  hot 
iron. 

Djfe  and  running  colon. 

As  the  dyes  of  textiles  differ  greatly  in  chemical  composition^  differeot 
methods  must  be  tried,  begin tiing  with   the  simplest,  until  the 
difiappear.    For  washable  materials,  No.  I  may  be  tried. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


291 


1.  Cold  or  warm  water  and  sunligliti  for  stams  on  washable  materials. 
Rinse  the  stains  in  water,  or  soak  thRm  (for  10  or  12  hours,  if  neceaaary), 
and  then  drj^  thern  in  tho  sun.  Repeat  the  trcjituicnt  if  the  stains  arc  not 
removed  entirely  by  the  tirst  treatment.  Spots  on  wo<ilen  and  silk  ma- 
terials sometimes  may  Ijg  removed  by  soaking  or  wasliing  in  cold  water. 

2.  Jftvelle  water. 

3.  Potassium  permanganate, 

4.  Hydrogen  peroidde  made  dightly  alkaline  with  ammonia,  for  stains 
OD  white  silk  or  wool.  Soak  the  staiiis  in  tliia  solution  until  they  disappear, 
and  then  rinse  thoroughly. 

Egg. 

Egg  stains  should  l>e  washed  or  sponged  with  cold  or  lukewarm  water 
before  any  hot  water  is  applied.  S-ometimes  a  largo  part  of  the  stain 
hardens  on  the  surface  of  the  materia!  and  may  Ije  scraped  off  with  a  blunt 
knife. 

One  of  the  following  agent.s  should  be  used  to  remove  egg  stains: 

L  Cold  water  followed  by  hot  water  and  soap,  as  in  ordinary  laun- 
dering, 

2.  Ojld  water  followed  by  a  grease  solvent.  Allow  the  stained  place  to 
dry  afU*r  l>eing  B]K)ngtHl  with  cold  water.  Then  apply  the  grease  solvent 
(pages  292  to  293). 

Fly  paper  {Micky). 
See  "reamous  substances," 
especially  effective. 

Fruits  and  berries  (fresh). 

Practically  all  fruit  stains,  when  they  are  fresh  and  still  moist,  can  be 
removed  with  lioiling  or  even  warra  water.  After  they  have  dried,  they 
become  much  more  difficult  to  remove.  The  color  of  some  materials  may 
be  affet^ted  by  the  organic  acids  present  in  certain  fruit^g  like  the  grajK^fruit 
and  lemon.  In  such  cases  the  color  can  generally  be  restored  by  the  methods 
used  for  acid  stains. 

The  following  agents  are  satisfactory  for  fruit  or  berry  stains: 

1.  Boiling  water,  for  white  or  fastHXJlonxl  washable  matenala.  Stretch 
the  staincKl  material  over  a  bowl  or  other  vessel,  holding  it  by  a  string  or 
an  elastic  band,  if  necessary,  and  p<jur  boiling  water  up^jri  it  from  a  tea- 
kettle held  at  a  height  of  3  or  4  feet  so  that  the  water  strikers  the  stain  with 
some  force.  With  some  stains,  especially  those  in  which  fruit  pulp  was 
pn^sent*  a  little  rubbing  nlternatcd  with  tipplications  of  l>oiling  water  in 
helpful.  A  stain  remaining  after  this  t  reatment  frecjuently  can  bf  bleached 
by  hanging  the  wet  mat < 'rial  in  the  sun  to  dry. 

2.  Warm  water,  for  silk,  wool,  and  other  delicate  materials.  Hptjnge  the 
etains. 

3.  Lemon  juice  and  sunlight.    Stains  remaining  after  treatment  with 


page  30  L      Turpentine  and  kerosene  are 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


boiling  water  can  often  be  bleached  by  moistening  with  icmon  juioe  and 
exposing  to  the  bnght  aimlight. 

4.  Lemon  juico  or  oxalic  acid.  A  stain  which  turns  blue  at  pray  and 
cannot  be  removed  readily  by  boihng  water  »ometimef^  can  be  loosimed 
by  moistening  wif  h  a  Uf  tie  acid,  which  restores  its  original  color  and  rc^ndcri 
it  more  easily  soluble  in  the  boiling  water.  If  necessary,  apply  the  acid 
several  times,  alternating  with  l>oiling  water, 

5.  Potassium  ix^rmanganate  (p.  286).  Treat  the  stains  first  with  boiling 
water  (see  No.  1). 

6.  Javelle  water  (p.  285). 

7.  Hydrogen  peroxide  made  slightly  alkaline  with  ammonia.    Stains  re- 
maining on  Kilk  or  wool  (white  or  fast  color)  after  sponging  with  wan 
water  frequently  can  be  removed  with  a  little  hydrogen  peroxide. 

8.  Warm  water  as  in  No.  2,  followed  by  alcohol  Sponge  the  spota 
(p.  284), 

FruiU  and  berries  (cooM). 

In  many  cases  changes  in  cwiking  render  the  atains  from  rooked  fruit  j 
much  easier  to  remove  fhun  Ihos*?  of  fresh  fruit.  In  fact,  they  often  uroj 
removed  from  a  fabric  by  ortlinary  launderuig.  Stums  from  gome  cooked! 
fruits,  however,  t^|>ccially  the  dark  red  nnd  luirple  fruits  and  berries,  suchj 
as  cranlwrries  and  black  ra,spl>errie8,  are  simdar  to  the  fresh  fniit  stain 
in  being  set  by  alkaline  gul)stanee«. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  Im?  employed: 

1.  Boiling  water  (see  No.  1,  under  '*fre?^h  fniit  stains'*), 

2.  Warm  water.    Sponge  delicate  fubrics. 

3.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering;).  This  does  not  apply  ijo  tbo 
dark-<x)lor(*d  (rc*d  or  purple)  fruits  and  berries.  Treat  theru  in  the  same 
way  as  fresh  fruit. 

Glue. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  glue  spots: 

1 .  Water.  Either  soak  the  spot  in  warm  water  or,  if  small,  sponge  it 
Oecaaionally  it  is  necessary  to  IkjiI  the  stained  material 

2.  Vinegar.    Sponge  the  spot  or  soak  It  in  vinegar. 

Orwts  and  other  fresh  green  fdinge. 

One  of  the  following  agenU  should  be  used  in  removing  stains  of 
character: 

i.  Hot  water  and  soap,  as  in  ordinary  laundering.    Remove  the  st 
mechanically,  by  thorough  rubt)ing. 

2.  Grain  or  wood  alcohol  Apply  hy  aiwnging.  This  is  C8[>ecially  useful 
upon  mat-erials  which  laundering  might  injure. 

GreoBe, 

Sometimes  it  is  possible  to  scrape  or  wipe  much  of  the  adhering  | 
trom  a  stained  material. 


I 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


293 


One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  grease  spots: 

L  Wtirin  watnr  and  soap,  as  in  ordinary  laundering.  Grease  spoln  iiHUidJy 
can  Ix-  rrrnovrd  from  washable  roateriab  in  thm  way,  provided  cure  is 
taken  to  rub  the  partieular  sjxjt  thorouglily.  Suap^  containing  naphtha 
or  kerosene  are  efhcjenL 

2.  Absorbent  substancea — l)lottinK  fWAJMir,  ftjller*?*  earth,  brown  paper, 
French  ctialk,  powdered  magnesia,  or  white  talcum  powder,  for  fine  ma- 
teriala;  (tommeal  or  salt,  for  carpets,  rugs,  and  other  coarse  materials. 
The  use  of  absorbent.^  generally  is  efTective  only  on  spots  of  grease  or  oil 
ufimixctl  with  particles  of  dirt  or  metal.  The  advantages  of  using  them 
are  that  the  fabric  is  not  wet  and  there  is  no  danger  of  leaving  a  ring,  as 
in  the  case  of  grease  solvents.  In  utsirig  an  absorbent,  such  txs  u  clean  blotter 
or  a  piece  of  unglazed  brown  paper,  lay  it  on  each  side  of  the  stain  and 
apply  a  warm  iron.  The  grease  is  melted  and  is  absorbed  by  the  paper. 
To  use  the  absfjrbent  powders,  la^""  the  stained  fabric  upon  a  fiat  surface 
and  spread  a  layer  of  the  alisorbent  over  the  8tain  and  work  it  around 
gently  bo  as  not  to  pull  the  fit>er8»  As  soon  as  it  become^s  gummy,  shake 
or  brush  it  off  and  repeat  the  process  until  the  bulk  of  the  stain  is  removed. 
Then  apply  another  layer  of  the  al>sor^J<*.nt  and  allow  it  to  remain  over- 
night, or  longer  if  necessary.  This  removes  all  tnices  t»f  the  stain,  and 
in  the  case  of  slight  stains  the  preliminary  treatment  is  unnect^sary.  Then 
dust  or  bnjiih  otf  the  absorbent  thorougldy.  If  it  is  not  convenient  to  let 
the  stain  stand  overnight,  place  a  layer  of  cloth  or  brown  paper  over  the 
ab8C»rbent  and  ap|>Iy  a  wartn  (not  hot)  iron  for  several  minutes.  In  the 
case  of  stains  made  by  solid  fata,  which  must  be  melted  before  tbey  can  be 
absorbed,  the  use  of  the  warm  iron  is  necessary. 

3.  Organic  solvents.  Chloroform,  ether,  and  gasoline  or  naphtha.  The 
first  is  the  safest  to  um},  wince  it  is  not  inflammable.  It  is  a  bt?tter  solvent 
of  tarry  Bubstances  tlrnn  is  ether  or  gasoline,  and  therefore  more  satisfactory 
for  general  use.  Gasoline  and  naphtha  are  otit4iin<'<l  (rusily  and  are  com- 
paratively inexperLHive,  but  the}'^  are  very  inflammable  and  likely  to  con- 
tain impurities  and  to  leave  an  odor  in  the  cleaned  fabric.  Ether  is  ex- 
pensive and  inflamma1>ie,  but  it  is  clean,  and  usually  it  leavt^s  no  otior* 
The  gre^itest  care  should  l>e  taken  in  using  inflammable  solvents.  It  is 
best  to  use  them  in  a  shady  place  out  of  doore,  and  if  in  the  house  by  an 
open  window*  and  away  from  all  flatncs.  Place  a  pad  of  clean  *rloth  or  a 
white  Ijlotter  Ivcneath  the  stain  and  change  it  aa  soon  as  it  becomes  soiled. 
Sponge  the  stain  with  a  clean  cloth,  preferably  a  piece  like  the  stiiined 
material,  moistened  with  the  t^olvent.  To  prevent  the  spreading  of  the 
grease  and  solvent,  it  is  best  to  use  small  amounts  of  the  solvent  at  a  time 
and  to  work  from  the  outside  of  the  spot  toward  the  center.  It  is  well  also 
to  surround  the  stain  with  a  ring  of  French  chalk  or  any  of  the  absorbents 
Dientione<i  in  No.  2,  and  to  rub  the  stain  with  a  clean  cloth  until  it  is 
thoroughly  dry. 

In  removing  grease  spots  which  contain  dirt  or  fine  particles  of  metal. 


1 


I 

I 
I 


294 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


more  rulibing;  and  a  frtn^r  use  of  the  eolvent  arc  neoeaaary.  It  is  best  to  | 
apply  fbe  solvent  horn  the  wroDg  side  of  the  material,  flo  that  the  partides 
will  \ye  washed  tntHjhanic-ally  from  the  fibers  onto  the  pad  of  cloth  placed  i 
underfK^ath.  If  the  sfxit  (ltK*st  not  yield  to  this  treatment,  immerse  it  in 
a  stnall  bowl  of  the  solvent  and  brush  it  gently  with  a  smalls  soft  bnish*  ' 
The  lirusking  serves  to  loosen  the  insoluble  particles,  which  then  fall  to  * 
the  Ixjttom  of  the  IkjwL 

In  jTonpral,  when  the  stained  place  must  be  dippe<l  in  the  solvent,  it  ia  I 
more  satisfactory  to  immerse  the  whole  article  filially  in  clean  salvcDt*  I 
which  prevents  the  formation  of  rings.  If  sufficient  solvent  jjb  not  at  hand  I 
for  this,  the  ring  usually  can  Ij*?  removed  by  ciireful  and  patient  sponging  ] 
with  small  quantities  of  fresh  solvent,  taking  rleun  clotha,  pads,  or  blotters,, 
as  sugtcested  above?,  and  working  fnjin  the  wrong  side  of  the  material. 

4.  An  absorbent  (sec  No.  2)  mixe<l  with  a  solvent  (see  No.  3)  in  the  form 
of  a  thick  paste.    The  white  al)»orlx^nts  (French  chalk  or  magnf'^ia)  are  ^ 
most  satisfactory.    Spread  the  pa^te  over  the  spot,  leave  it  until  thoroughly  ■ 
dry,  and  brush  it  off.    Repeat  this  treatment  if  necessary.    The  spreading  ™ 
of  the  solvent  and  the  formation  of  a  ring  will  l>e  avoided  to  a  considerable 
extent  in  thL^  way.    The  method  is  especially  usefid  for  cleaaing  light- 
colored  unwashable  materials,  laces^  and  the  like. 


See  "resinous  substances, "  page  30L 


4 


leg  cream.  ^^ 

One  of  the  following  agenta  may  be  employed  in  removing  ieen^resiii 
ti  tains: 

1^  Soap  and  water  as  in  ordinary  laundering.  Use  this  for  wash  ma- 
terials in  the  case  of  stains  in  w  hich  no  chocolate  or  highly  colored  fruit  or 
other  substance  is  present. 

2.  Cool  or  lukewarm  water,  followed  by  agents  used  in  removing  grease 
spotwS.  Hponge  the  stains  thoroughly  with  water.  If,  on  drying,  a  greaee 
spot  from  the  cream  remains,  remove  it  by  any  of  the  methods  suggested 
for  ''grease  spots,"  (page  292). 

3.  Agents  suggested  under  ''fruit  and  berries  (fresh),"  "fruit  and  berries 
(rooked),"  ''coffee,"  "chocolate  and  cocqa,"  and  the  like,  according  to  a 
the  stain  Ln  question.  ^ 

Indelible  (copying)  pencil  marka. 

The  dye  and  the  reagents  used  to  remove  such  stains  may  vary  with 
different  makes  of  pencils,  but  for  those  used  in  these  experiments  the 
following  rc-agents  are  satisfactory: 

1.  Alcohol  (grain  or  wood).  Soak  the  stains  for  a  few  minutes  or  tmtil 
they  are  dissolved.  The  graphite  nmrka  then  remnin,  but  can  be  removed 
by  washing  with  soap  and  water.  The  alcohol  is  effective  also  after  tlieae 
stains  have  been  washed  and  ironed. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


2.  Javelle  watfT.  TlaH  destroys  the  dye»  Reniovi!  the  graphite  i-ither 
bi'fore  or  ;ifter  applying  this  agent  by  washing  with  soap  and  water. 

ffik  {Jntiia). 

Tht  treatnii nt  for  ri'muving  India  ink  from  textiles  is  the  aanie  as  for 
^*ink  (printing J  '■  (p.  2U5J. 

Ink  (tnarking). 

So-called  "indeliljle"  or  '^marking'*  inks  are  of  two  common  types, 
namely,  that  containing  ijilver  nitrate  or  olher  silvrr  (^omixjund  and  that 
with  an  orpjanic  dye,  usually  "aniline  black,"  aa  ita  basis, 

►Silver  nitrate  ink  may  be  known  generally  from  the  directiona  for  ita 
use,  whieh  atato  that  nrtieles  marked  with  it  must  be  laid  in  the  sun  or 
pressed  with  a  warm  iron  before  they  are  wa^^hed.  This*  Ls  ti>  bring  alxiut 
the  preeipit^tkin  of  metallic  silver,  which  gives  the  black  or  brr>wn  color 
to  the  marks,  Javelle  water  may  l>e  used  to  remove  stains  from  silver 
nitrate  inks  (p.  28o).  Apply  thin  repi-atedly  until  the  color  of  tliL-  spot 
disaji pears.  Then  soak  the  stained  place  in  ammonia  to  remove  the  silver 
ehloridt*  foriw^d. 

Aniline  blaek  ink  may  Ik?  known  also  from  the  directions  for  itj*  ixae, 
which  generally  state  that  the  articloii  marked  with  it  must  not  be  ironed 
until  after  tliey  have  Ix^en  warthrtl.  Aniline  black  inks  are  remarkably 
fast  and  it  m  practically  impossible  to  remove  them  after  they  have  once 
become  dry.  The  method  given  above  for  the  removal  of  silver  nitrate 
ink  stains  is  not  effect ive  in  removing  aniline  black  ink  stains;  neither 
are  satisfactory  n -suits  olitnined  by  trying  most  of  the  methods  used  for 
ordinary  writing  ink  stains*. 

Inkf  Mack  (priutiiiQ). 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  for  removing  printing-ink 
stains: 

T.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  Remove  frei^h  stmns  by 
applying  an  almndanrc  of  soap  and  rubbini^  thoroughly. 

2.  Ljtrd,  followetl  by  soap  and  water,  as  in  No.  1.  Rub  the  stained  place 
with  lard,  and  work  it  well  into  the  fibers  to  loosen  the  stain. 

Ink  {uniting). 

For  an  ink  spot  of  imknown  compoRttion,  it  h  necessary  to  try  various 
agents,  l^cginniBg  alwayn  with  the  simpk^at  and  that  leji.st  likely  to  injure 
the  fabric.    One  of  the  follnwing  agent*?  may  1m^  utilisied: 

I.  Absorbents:  Corntnenl,  salt,  French  chalk,  fuller's  earth,  magm^ia, 
talcum  powder,  and  the  like.  The  apf>lieation  of  such  substjinces  serves 
ti>  remove  any  ink  not  al)sorlM>d  by  the  fxlx^rs  and  keeps  the  ink  from 
spreading.  For  a  larj^e  ink  sjMit,  upply  one  of  t hesti  substanei^  l>efore  trying 
other  agents.  Work  the  al)sorlient  around  with  sonve  blunt  instrumetit 
and  renew  it  when  it  l>eeome«  soili^l.  A\'^hen  dry  aljsorbent  fails  to  take 
up  more  ink^  make  it  into  a  paste  with  water  and  continue  the  application. 


I 

I 
I 

I 
I 


296 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKiNG 


'  ^^^  V 


I 


2*  Soap  and  water  iw  in  ordinary  laijiKlering,    This  la  satwrfactory 
some  ty|>psi  i)f  pwhf)ol  inks,  which  can  l)c»  washml  from  fahrirs;  for  carl  win 
inkjSj  wliich  are  unaffecti^l  l>y  chcniicaln  imd  run  l«»  r4'rnovpd  only  mechan* 
ically;  and  Bometimcs  for  the  fresh  HtairiH  of  othrr  irik.s. 

3.  Milk.  8oak  the  stairts  for  a  diiy  or  two,  if  niH^'Hsary,  in  milk,  changing 
the  inilk  as  ofton  an  it  lioi'onit'w  dmctilorotl.    This  ia  effective  for  some  st^inA, 

Th*'  foregoing  methods  nmy  Ijc  used  safely  on  all  washahle  fahrit^. 
If  they  fail  to  remove  the  ef>ot,  apply  one  of  the  chemicala  mentioned 
Ik4ow: 

4.  Oxalie  aeid,  Raturatefl  solutinn.  S<iak  the  stain  for  a  few  sc^conda, 
then  rinse  in  clear  water,  and  finally  in  water  to  which  a  few  drops  of 
ammonia  Imvo  \»h'u  iMtnl. 

5.  PotasBium  permunKannti-.  This  is  satisfactory  for  stains  upon  many 
delicate  faliries  as  well  a5  on  ordinary  njaierialH, 

tk  Javelin*  water. 

7.  Commercial  ink-removers  (generally  are  satisfactory  if  the  directions 
furnished  with  them  are  followiHi  and  the  exeoiw  of  the  mil)stanc<3  is  re^ 
moved  by  tIiorou|j!li  rinsing  in  rleari  water. 

8.  Lemon  jiiieo.    Kct^p  the  slain  moistened  and  exposed  to  the  sun. 
?'or  ink  on  carpet,  first  apply  ah«3orl«'nt.s,  iis  in  No.  1 ;  follow  by  repeatml 

apphrations  of  oxalic  aciij,  tun  in  Xo.  2,  or  ji^'ta&sium  permanganate,  as  in 
No.  5,  or  liy  nihbing  with  the  cut  .surf an*  of  a  lemon,  w]uef>aing  on  the 
juice  and  rinsing  Irt'twivn  applipatiouH  with  a  riean,  wet  cloth  until  no 
more  ink  can  be  removixl.  Hub  the  spot  then  with  a  rleaa,  dry  cloth. 
After  the  carpet  is  dry,  brtiah  up  the  nap  with  a  stiff  brusli  or  a 
cloth.  . 

Iodine. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  used  in  removing  iodine  stains  from 
unstarcbeil  materials: 

1 .  Water.  Wash  the  .stain  in  an  abundancf^  of  waitT  or  soak  it  for  a 
number  of  hovirs  in  cfild  water.  These  staiuj^  can  be  removed  also  by 
wetting  with  water  and  drying  in  a  warm  place,  such  as  over  a  radiator^  | 
repeating  this  if  ntH-t-sHary. 

2.  Ammonia.    Sponge  the  stain  with  dilute  ammonia. 

3.  AlcohoL  Sponge  the  stjiin.  Thb  agent  frcijuently  can  be  usod  on 
materials  which  water  would  injure. 

4.  Starch,  prepared  as  for  laundry  purposes;  for  washable  materials. 
Inunerse  the  stained  place  in  the  starch  and  lx>il;  it  first  turns  blue  and 
then  disapiM'ars. 

5.  Flour,  u.*«e<l  in  the  sjime  manner  as  starch. 

For  removing  iodine  stains  from  starchtxi  materials  one  of  the  following 
agents  may  be  empltjyetl: 

L  Ammonia,     Soak   the   stains   in   dilute   ammonia   until   they    dia- , 
appear. 

2.  Water.    Boil  thi*  Htaininl  material  for  5  or  10  minutes. 


1 
I 


STAIN  REMOVAL 

For  irofi-rust  stains  on  white  wfLshaltle  rnatc»rials  one  of  the  agent,s  given 
below  ahould  be  «sed.  In  the  case  of  colored  materials,  the  effeet  of  the 
agent  should  Ix*  tried  first  on  a  sample  or  m  an  in  conspicuous  place. 

1.  Hydrochloric  acid,  m&de  by  diiutjiig  the  strong  acid  with  ?m  equal 
Vfjlume  of  water.  Spread  the  Btained  place  over  a  bowl  of  hot  water  and 
apply  the  acid  drop  by  drop  until  the  stain  turns  bright  yellow;  then  im- 
merse at  once  in  hot  water  and  rinse  thtiroughly,  Repe^it  the  treatment, 
if  necessary.  Add  a  little  anunonia  or  l»orax  to  the  tast  rinsing  water  to 
neutralize  any  acid  which  may  remain  in  the  goods. 

2.  Oxalic  acid»  in  saturated  solution,  asf^d  in  the  same  way  as  hydrochloric 
acid  in  No.  1.    Or  apply  the  ery.stals  directly  to  the  stain  and  moisten. 

3.  Cream  of  tartar.  Boil  the  stained  place  in  a  stjlution  of  4  teaspoon- 
fuls  to  1  pint  of  water,  until  the  stale  disappears.  This  agent,  owing  to 
i\s  cost,  is  practicable  only  for  stains  upon  small  artielm  which  can  be 
tmmefsed  and  ImikMi  in  a  cup  or  two  of  fiolution,  though  it  may  be  used 
in  the  case  of  larger  articles  by  holding  them  alwjve  the  solution  in  such  a 
way  that  only  the  stainefl  portion  is  immerse<b 

4.  Lemon  juice.  Hprcad  the  stained  place  over  a  vessel  of  actively 
boUing  water,  and  then  squeeze  lemon  juice  on  tlie  stain.  Aftc»r  a  few 
miiiutes  rinse  the  stain  and  repeat  the  process.  Tliia  method  is  rather 
slow  but  does  not  injure  delicate  wliite  cotton  or  hnen  fabrics. 

5.  Lemon  juice  and  salt.  Sprinlde  the  stain  with  salt,  moisten  with  leraon 
juice,  and  place  in  the  sun,  adding  more  lemon  juice  if  necessary. 

6.  AeitJ  fruits  or  vegetal jIi^,  Thosi*  mentioned  l>elow  are  satisfactory 
and  have  the  advantage  of  l>eing  found  in  the  home  garden  or  easily  pur- 
chased. Others  carmot  be  usctl  tiecause  their  juices  arc  so  highly  colored 
as  to  If^ave  stains  thcmBelves  on  the  fabric.  Tlie  use  of  lemon  juioe  has 
been  descril>i^<l  above. 

{(i)  Hhubarl)  Htalks.  One  stalk,  cut  up  and  b«>ilef!  in  one  cup  of  water, 
givoa  a  solution  strong  enough  to  dissolve  iron-rust.  If  the  stalks  have 
highly  eolorctt  skius  [leel  them  before  using.  Ikiil  the  stain  in  the  sohition 
for  15  minutes  or  longer,  if  necessary. 

(5)  Begonia.  Place  sevf^al  leaves,  together  with  the  stems»  in  a  saucepan 
with  only  enough  water  to  ktvp  them  from  burning.  B^jil  ttie  stain  in  the 
infusion  until  it  disiippears. 

{t)  Pineapple.  Cut  up  a  round  alieej  aljout  one-half  inch  in  thickness, 
and  l)oil  with  enough  water  to  ke«*iJ  it  from  burning.  Boil  the  stains  for 
five  minuti'H  or  until  they  disappear. 

id)  Ornppfruit.  Vn^v  tltc  pulp  atul  jtiice  from  one-fourth  of  a  fresh 
grapefruit  iu  the  siime  way  as  the  pineappl(\ 

Lroil  fait. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  employed  for  this  |)ur|X)se: 

L  Soap  and  water,  for  washnljle  materiiils.  Usi*  the  8<jap  freely  and 
rub  the  stuin  thoroughly.    Sjionge  woolen  miLterials. 


298 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


2,  Chloroform  or  other  clean  organic  solvent.  Immcrnc  the  stainrHj 
jibce  in  a  smiill  vesfM^l  of  the  solvent  and  bntsh  gently  with  a  small  soft 
brush  or  nib  mill  a  cloth. 

Lemi  pencU. 

The  marks  from  lead  pencils  contain  graphitr,  which  is  insoluble.  The 
methmli5  of  removing  |>eneil  marks  from  textiles  are  the  ajime  as  for  re- 
moving [end  foil  mtu-ks.  A  soft,  eraser  sometimes  can  Im^  used  atiecNsesfuJly 
in  effacing  the  marks,  especially  upon  stiff  or  i?tArehi>d  materials. 

Leather. 

The  following  agents  are  satisfactory  in  some  eaacs: 

1.  aSoap  and  water,  as  in  ordinary  lauDdering.  Use  an  abundance  of 
soup,  with  thorough  rtibbing. 

2.  PotaHsium  permanganate  (p.  286). 
Liim'  {lilackr^l). 

To  remove  hme  stains,  allow  the  8p<)ts  t-o  dry,  brush  carefully,  and  treat 
in  the  same  way  as  alkali  stjiins  (p.  288). 

Mtat  juiai  or  grof^  stairis. 

8tairj8  from  meat  juice  arc  similar  to  blo^xl  stuins  (pago  288).  Hot 
water  sets  the  stains  and  should  not  be  uaetl  until  the  protein  material 
has  h>een  removetl  Ijy  cold  water.  Clrc^se  »pi>t,s,  which  sometimes  remain 
after  the  renminder  of  the  stain  i«  removi*d,  esjiecially  in  the  ejLrtc*  of  stains 
from  cooked  meat,  can  be*  removetl  by  the  methods  tisetl  U*r  grease  (p.  292). 
In  the  case  of  gravies  thickenixl  with  flour,,  it  soinftime??  is  necessary  to 
follow*  this  treatment  by  one  of  the  treatments  recommeodwl  for  "w^hite 
sauce"  (p,  306). 

Meclidnes, 

If  the  nature  of  the  medicine  is  known,  lire  remover  can  be  chosen 
accordingly.  If  the  nature  of  the  mHirine  st^^in  is  not  known*  it  ia  neec»- 
awy  to  try  variiius  agents  until  one  is  found  which  siTves  the  purpose. 

Each  of  the  following  agents  Ia  satiafaciory  in  removing  some  medieino 
stains: 

1.  Boiling  wat<*r»  poured  on  the  stain  from  a  conaiderable  height,  as  for 
fruit  stains  <p,  291). 

2.  Hoap  and  w*aU*r»  ivs  in  ordinary  launderirjg. 

3.  Aeids,  such  as  hydrot'hlorie  or  oxnlic  Dilute  solutiona  of  thews  acida 
aometimc^  are  tiseful  for  stains  containing  metallic  salts. 

4.  Aleohol.    Spiiuge  the  stain  with  :ileoht»l  or  .soak  it  in  alei>hol, 

o,  Javelle  wuter.  This  agent  wurietimes  will  bleach  a  stain  that  rcsiatfi 
treatment  by  oth(*r  means. 

MihlniK 

One  of  !he  following  agents  may  l»o  usefl  for  the  removal  of  mildew  staioA: 

L  S«»ap  and  water,  as  m  imliuary  laTindering.     Verj*  fresh  stains  oaii 

be  washed  out.    Drying  in  the  sun  hel^M  to  bleueh  the  spot^. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


2.  8onr  milk.  Soak  diP  stains  overnight  in  swiiir  milk  and  then  plarfr'  in 
the  sun  without  rinsings.  lii')H>Ht  \lw  trojitim-nt  8*»vera]  tiini's  if  n<*ri^sury. 
Lij^hi  wtiiiiiH  i'lxn  \h'  r(*iiiovi*<l  in  this  way. 

H.  L»;mi>n  jwirc  Mointcu  fhs*  stiiinn  willi  Irrnnn  jnii^i*  and  allnw  ihfni 
to  ri*niain  in  the  mm.    I'His  is  rffff^livr  in  riTiiovinK  sli(?ht  ^*lains. 

4.  Javi'lle  wut(^r.    Use  this  agent  for  hk*:i('hiu)i;  tild  stains. 

5.  Potassiium  pcrmatjgaiiate.  Use  this  agent  upon  old  and  persistent 
stains. 

Milk  and  cream. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  sjwta  from  milk 
and  cream; 

1.  Cold  or  lukewarm  watrr,  followctl  hy  hot  water  find  sotip  (ordinary 
hunKh'fiiijf),  for  stiiins  on  wjwlmhle  materials.  For  spots  on  other  fabrics, 
fs(Mjnp;«  with  Hitapy  water  and  then  vvif  li  eieaii  water. 

2.  Cold  or  hike  warm  water,  followf*d  hy  <'hl*iroform,  gasoline,  or  aome 
other  greiise  solvent.  For  fahries  wliieli  ordinary  hiunderinK  woidd  iniiin\ 
first  ajxjnge  carefully  with  water,  allow  to  dry,  and  then  .sponge  with  a 
greeioe  solvent. 

Mucus. 

To  remove  nmcus  stains,  soak  in  ammonia  water  or  in  salt  and  water, 
then  wash  with  soap  and  eo!d  wat<;r. 

Mud, 

Allow^  mud  stains  to  dr>'  and  bnish  carefully  before  any  other  treatment 
Ia  ustMl.    8oinetimc8  no  other  treatment  is  neee«sary. 
The  followinjc  agents  are  satisfactory: 

1.  8oap  and  water,  as  in  ordinan,"  laundering,  for  washable  materiala*^ 

2.  Alcohol.    Sponge  the  stains  with  alcohoL 

3.  Water.    iSjMjnge  the  stains.  

4.  Cut  nuv  fHJtato.  P'or  blaek  silkf?  of  firm  weave,  after  bnjshing,  rub 
the  spot  witli  the  potato.  This  leaves  a  thin  film  of  starch  on  the  surface 
of  the  e!oth,  which  can  be  Ijruslicxl  off  wh<'n  dry.  This  treatment  is  too 
harsh  for  any  but  rather  smooth,  firm  goodis*  and  leaves  a  spot  on  all  hut 
black  materials, 

Ptiinta  and  itintishes* 

Before  using  any  agent  ujjon  paint  or  varnish  stains,  it  is  heat  to  scrape 
off  lis  much  of  ihe  stain  as  ptjssihle  from  the  surface  of  the  material. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  ustxl  for  the  removal  of  paint  and 
varnish  stains,  not  including  *'ale«ihol  stain,'*  which  is  discussed  separately: 

1.  Soap  and  water.  Frc?«h  stains,  espwially  on  washable  materials,  are 
removed  easily  by  carcfylly  washing  with  plenty  of  st^ap.  Older  stains 
Bometimes  can  be  removetl  in  this  way  if  they  are  first  softened  by  rnhbing 
od,  lard,  or  bntter  into  them  thoroughly. 

2,  Turpentine,     Sponge  the  stains  with  pure  turpentine,  or  wash  the 


I 
I 


300 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


wbolt*  urtidt*  in  il,  if  iho  HfM)t8  are  largo  nr  BcaUen^l,  iind  tlicn  riniie  it. 
nevcral  times  in  frf^^h  quant iiie«  of  the  8c*lv(*nt* 

3.  Tyrpcntinr  nnt\  smirnoma.  Stnins  wliirh  art*  not  fresh  and  yet  liavo 
not  (nitirt'ly  liardc^ntMl  van  Im*  softencil  liy  tiioii>ttrnin|c  thcin  wiih  fitnmonia 
anil  sprinkling  thc*in  with  a  littU*  turpentine.  Roll  the  article  ap  for  15 
or  20  mintites,  ur  t^mk  it  for  sevefiU  hours,  if  necessary,  and  then  wash  it 
with  warm  water  anrl  soap.  , 

4.  Oil  solvents,  such  as  chloroform,  applies!  in  the  same  way  as  the  tur- 
pentine, are  satisfactory  (No.  2),  Ga.wline,  kerosene,  and  alcohol  are 
less  satiKfactory, 

5.  Sodium  carbonate  or  wa8hinp-«oda  (3  tahle^^poona  to  each  gallon  of 
water).  Boil  the  ntains  in  this  solution.  The  method  id  successful  for 
mieh  materials  a«  will  .stand  thi»  rreatnn*nt. 

Nom*  of  these  methods  will  n'movr  extremely  old  stains. 

In  paint  cau»;ing:  an  aleohol  stain,  a  pif^iient  is  suspended  in  alcohol 
with  «mall  aniount.M  tjf  nhelliie  and  other  resinous  material,  The  method* 
of  renioving  it  from  fabrics  differ  wmiewhat  from  thow**  for  ordinary  paint 
stiiina.  Treatment  with  tiirfx'ntine  alone  or  with  other  oil  8<jlvents,  which 
usually  will  remove  ordinary  paint  stains,  i«  ineffective.  One  of  the  fol- 
lowing jigent,H  i^howld  \h:  employed; 

L  Soap  and  water  for  very  fresh  stains  on  washable  material:^. 

2.  Alcohol.    If  the  stains  are  frt^^h^  sjxinge  them  freely  with  alcohol, 

3.  Tiirpeatine  and  anuuonia  for  idd  stains. 

4.  Strong  ammonia  for  old  staina.  Soak  the  stain  for  half  an  hour  in 
stiting  atumoDJa  and  then  wash. 

Pdtrt/x,  water  color. 

The  following  agent  will  be  found  flatiRfiuctorj*  for  removing  stains  made 
by  water  color  paints  on  materials  not  injured  by  water: 

1.  Soap  and  water  Wanh  the  material  in  lukewarm  or  cold  water  with 
soap,  the  8taiiic*:l  fKjrtiops  Innng  rubbiMl  if  necessary.  Both  frc*sh  and  old 
stains  can  l>e  removed  in  this  way.  This  methcKi  \s^  siiti.sfaetory  in  the  ease 
of  wjuslialile  silk.s  and  w<xilens,  n»  well  as  cotton  or  linen  material*. 

The  following  agents  are  fairly  Ruce<^sful  in  removing  thcMt>  wtuins  from 
materials  like  hnishf^l  silk.*;,  which  Wimld  W  injured  by  washing.  Although 
it  is  almost  imj>oKsil)le  \o  remove  all  traces  of  the  stains,  the  appearance 
of  the  spots  may  \ie  improvt^J  greatly. 

2.  Gaa*>line.     Dip  the  stained  portion  in  gasohne  and  rub  vigorously, 

3.  Glycerin  and  water.  S|X)nge  the  stain  with  glycerin  untd  the  water 
color  is  removed  and  then  with  lukew^arm  water  to  remove  the  glycerin.  In 
caae  a  water  ring  is  left,  treat  this  as  described  under  "water  spots** 
(pag»306). 

Paraffin  or  paraffin  wax. 

For  removing  the  part  of  the  stain  which  has  penetrated  the  filjer, 
use  one  of  the  following  agents: 


I 
I 


I 
I 


STALX  REMOVAL 


I  BbttirvR  paper  or  an  absorbent  jxnvdcr  ami  a  wann  iron  (No.  2 
under  **i^rease"). 

2.  Grea.s<*  solvents.  If  a  trace  of  the  stain  reinainjs  after  treatment ,  :»« 
in  No.  1,  sponge  the  stain  carefully  with  a  grease  solvent  (see  No,  3  under 
**  grease  *  *) . 

For  colored  paraffin  see  "candle  wax  (colored)"  page  290, 

Perspiration. 

While  the  perspiration  from  most  of  the  body  is  arid,  that,  from  the 
armpit-a  is  alkaline.  For  trpatinjr  fokirs  dmnj^ini  by  thii*,  see  *'alkah/" 
page  288.  The  yellow  stains  sometimes  eaused  upt>n  wlnte  material  by 
penpiration  are  removed  by  the  following  agents: 

1.  Soap  and  wtiter.  Exposure  to  the  auo  helps  to  bleaii-h  the  stained 
material. 

2.  JavcUe  water, 

3.  Potassium  permanganate. 
Pitch. 
Sec  *' resinous  substaoces/*  below. 

fiimuM  and  remnou^  ^fubfikniceji. 

One  of  the  following  solvents  may  be  U9*h1:  Turpentine,  rhlfirtjform, 
alcohol  (grain  or  wood),  ether,  keron^'ne^  gasoline,  iind  water  fc^r  water- 
soluble  giimK,  »ueh  as  gum  arable.  In  each  case  sponge  the  stain  or  im- 
merse it  in  the  solvent  and  rub. 

Salad-drcHsirigs  usually  contain  oil,  vinegar  (or  lemon  juice),  and  condi- 
ments, and  limy  eon  tain  egg  or  creann  also.  If  egg  or  cream  is  present,  hot 
water  mufit  not  be  UMt*d.  For  discoloration  due  to  the  ?iicid  of  the  vinegar 
or  lemon  juicep  treat  in  the  same  way  aj<  acid  stains  (p.  287). 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  fie  used  for  siil ad-dressing  stains: 

1 .  Soap  and  water  (ordinflry  liiundfTing),  for  washable  materials.  Sponge 
delicate  materials  with  lukewarm  water,  using  soap  if  the  material  is  not 
harnii»d  by  it. 

2.  C«reasf^  scjlvent^. 
Scorch, 

Hcoreh  uixin  cotton  and  linen  sometimes  cj*n  be  removed,  if  the  fitwrs 
are  not  actually  bunntl.  Wool  and  silk  are  disintegrabHl  at  a  lower  tem- 
I>erature  than  cotton  and  linen  and  cannot  l>e  restored  to  their  original 
condition  after  l>eing  scorch*^]. 

For  removing  slight  scorch  stains  from  cotton  and  linen,  use  one  of  the 
following  agents: 

1.  Boup  aiKl  watf-r  fordinary  laundering).  This  is  sufficient  to  remove 
very  slight  Ht;tins. 

2.  Water  anri  sunlight.  Wet  the  ^^|M)t  with  water,  or  sf»ap  and  water» 
and  expose  to  the  sun  for  a  day,  or  longer,  if  neei^ssiiry.  The  scorcth  tlis- 
ap(x^ars  much  more  slowly  il  the  tiaatcriai  is  not  moistened  before  exposure. 


1 


I 


d 


302 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


3.  Bread  crust.  Very  dight  scomh  an  the  «virfaci>  oi  tuateriAlB  which 
are  not  eapecially  dplk'titc  somptiniea  can  be  nibljed  away  with  a  brrad 
cnifit. 

Shoe-dressings. 

One  of  the  foUowing  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  stains  from  the 
l>lark  shoe  poliyhes: 

1 .  8<nip  und  water  for  the  pajsto8.  If  the  stains  are  fresh,  sponge  or  wash 
them  thoroughly  with  an  abundance  of  soap  (p.  284), 

2.  Turpentine  only  for  the  pastes  containinj?  tun>entine — this  may  be 
detected  by  the  odor.  Irnmerse  the  stained  plat^ef?  and  rub  gently  in  tur- 
pentine. 

3.  Potassium  permanganate  or  javelle  water  for  stains  from  the  black 
ijijuici  dressing.  First  remove  as  much  of  the  stain  as  possible  by  sfjijnging 
or  wft«hing  ast  in  No.  L 

The  common  Ian  leather  drewinga  consist  either  of  a  liquid  cleaninis 
sohitirm  or  n  Iwx  of  polmhing  wax,  or  l>oth.  The  cleaning  solution  some- 
times contains  n  ct)tiHiderable  amount  of  free  oxiilic  acid,  which  may  weaken 
a  faliric  seriously  if  allowed  to  remain  long  in  contact  with  iL  S*iraetimc« 
also  water-soluble  dyes  are  present  jmd  these  make  a  much  more  jier- 
sistent  stain  on  woo!  than  on  cotton.    Use  one  of  the  follnwing  ageat«: 

1.  8oap  and  water,  for  stains  u(wm  cotton  and  linen  (p.  2S4>, 

2.  Alcohf)L  The  staias  on  wool  arc  removed  more  successfully  by  spong- 
ing (p,  284)  with  alcohol ,  than  with  soap  and  water. 

The  staias  prfKlured  by  the  poHsiihtng  waxes  usually  may  be  removed  by 
one  of  ihc  w:ix  solvents  fp/i^c  3<K)). 

For  removing  spots  caused  by  white  shoe  pastes  or  liquids,  use  the 
following  agent : 

Water.  Firsit  sponge  the  Kpfit  (p.  2S4),  and  when  dry,  brush  thoroughly 
or  rub  in  the  direction  of  the  weave  with  a  piece  of  the  same  material. 

SiU^r  nitrale, 

See '4nk  (marking),*' page  295. 

*Si>ap. 

When  a  material  has  not  been  rinsed  sufficiently  and  is  ironed  with  soap 
still  present  in  the  liber,  stains  sometimes  appear  which  resemble  iron-rust 
stains,  but  usually  arc  lighter  yellow  in  color.  Use  the  following  tor  such 
stains: 

8oap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  Bleaching  in  the  fiun  bel|iB  to 
remove  stains  which  are  eafK?cially  fiersisU^nt. 

Swd, 

&Jot  spots,  being  conipcised  of  due  particles  of  carbon,  are  in>«rilubte 
atid  mtist.  be  removed  from  a  fabric  miH!hani(»ally,  l^sc  one  of  the  following 
ii|SL*liU: 

!.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering)-  First  brush  the  stain,  then 
place  on  the  grta^in  alisorlK^nt  powders,  such  as  fullers  earth,  French  chalk, 


I 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


cornstarch,  commwil,  or  siilt,  work  them  around  until  they  become  soiled, 
and  brush  them  aw:iy.    TUpu  wash  or  sponge  the  stain* 

2,  Chloroform,  ^Ji-^^ohnc,  or  othpr  organic  jmjI vents,  for  materials  injured 
by  wa^hinK.  First  brush  the  .shiin  lijfhtly  or  treat  it  with  absorbent 
powder,  iis  in  No.  1,  then  inuuernr  il  In  llie  solvent  and  ruli  gently^  or 
brush  with  a  small,  aofi  brush.  Far  the  treatment  of  rings  caused  by 
organic  s^jI vents,  see  ** grease,"  page  2i>2. 

Smtp. 

Stains  from  soup  should  be  tfcated  in  the  same  way  as  those  from  white 
sauces  (page  306), 

The  fcjllfnving  agents?  are  fairly  satisfactory: 

1,  Soap  and  wat^er  (ordinary  laundering).  Hub  the  soap  thoroughly 
on  the  st>aiti. 

2,  Chloroform,  gasoline,  or  other  organic  solvent,  for  materials  injured 
by  washing.  Imnierse  the  stain  in  the  solvent  and  while  immerscHl  rub 
it  gently  or  brush  it  with  a  small  soft  brush. 

Sugar  drtips. 

One  of  the  following  agents  nhould  be  used  in  removing  sugar  simp 
stains: 

1,  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  launderinf;).  for  wiu^hablc  materials. 

2.  Sponging  with  clear  water  is  sali.sfactui  y  for  other  niateriali*. 

Tar,  roml  tnl,  creosote  ml^  mphttU^  ruphait  pnint,  and  ihe  like. 

The  stains  from  these  substances  are  grouped  together  l>cpause  they 
are  s«imewhat  similar  in  their  ehemiral  c^omfjosition.  In  gem^ral,  the  same 
9olvent.s  are  ustnl  for  all.  The  stains  are  rather  difficult  to  remove  from 
textik^,  especially  from  eotton,  aufl  after  the  oily  or  tarr^^  part  of  the 
spot  has  l>i^n  removed,  dark-eolore<l  organic  or  mineral  impurities  arc 
likely  to  r^'main. 

One  of  th("  following  agents  may  be  used: 

1.  Turpentine.  Spimge  the  stains  or  immerse  them  in  turpentine,  and 
rub.  The  latter  tn^atment  is  l)est.  if  the  fabric  is  not  too  flelicate.  For 
stains  on  t  arpet,  scnil>  with  a  (*loth  soaked  in  turpentine,  changmg  to  a 
fresh  c*loth  as  soon  as  it  becomes  discolored,  and  continuing  as  long  as 
any  color  comes  off. 

2.  Turpf-ntine,  m  in  No,  1,  followed  by  thorough  washing  in  soap  and 
hot  water  (p.  2H4). 

3.  Chloroform,  api^hi^l  in  the  same  way  as  turpfmtine  in  No.  1  and  No,  2. 

4.  Lard,  liiib  tlton Highly  intt>  the  stiiin,  then  wash  in  hot  water  and 
fWiap.    RejRUit  the  trejitmeJit  if  necessary. 

Tea. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  employed  in  remtiving  tea  stain.s: 
L  liorax,  boiling  water.     If  stains  are  on  cotton  or  linen  and  not  more 


I 


304 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOAfE  MAKING 


than  a  few  days  old,  soak  them  tn  a  borax  solution  (}{  to  1  t4?!aflpo(m  to 
1  cup  of  wati^r)  and  then  rinsr  in  boiliDK  wat<*r, 

2.  A  strong  sou|)  solution,  coniaininK  a  Imlf-inch  cube  of  soap  to  each 
cup  of  water.  Boil  the  «tiiined  material  in  thia  solution.  Stains  2  or  3 
weeks  old  are  removed  successfully  if  they  are  on  small  articles  of  white 
waah  material  which  can  be  boiled  in  a  small  quantity  of  liquid. 

3.  Potassium  pcTmatigafiate,  for  stains  which  resist  other  reagents. 

4.  JavcUo  water  for  persistent  sta.ins.  This  is  slightly  less  satisfactory 
than  tho  pc^ttissium  permanganate. 

5.  Lemon  jtjiee  and  sunlight.  Keep  the  stains  moist  with  lemon  juice 
and  cjqxwo  them  to  the  sun  for  a  day  or  two.  They  will  Ik:  i>nictically 
rernovod, 

Toharco. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  utilized  in  removing  tobac*co-jaioe 
stains: 

1-  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  Sponge  materials  which 
cannot  l>c  wanhcd.  If  a  stnin  on  washable  materials  canncit  Ih«  roinplpt<?ly 
removed  by  wa^^hing,  bleach  it  in  the  wun.  Moistening  it  with  lemon  juice 
makes  it  disapppar  mon*  quickly. 

2.  Wood  or  grain  alcohol.  Trarea  of  color  remaining  upon  wiwjI  fabrics 
after  sponging  with  wat^r  can  be  removed  sometimes  by  »|K3nging  with 
alcohol. 

3.  Potassium  permanganat-e,  for  stains  which  washing  will  not  remove 
(p.  286). 

4.  Javelle  watej,  for  st^ns  which  washing  will  not  remove, 
Tofrialo  ntw. 

One  of  the  following  agents  sh*)uld  Iw  uspfi  in  removing  such  staina: 

1.  Lemon  juice  and  8un!ight.  First  wai^h  the  .stains  C4irefully»  then 
moisten  them  with  lemon  juice  and  expose  them  to  the  sun  f«»r  several 
days  if  necessary.  This  is  satisfactory  for  stains  on  whit^?  witHhabb  ma- 
terials. 

2.  Alcohol  (wood  or  grain).  Sponge  the  stains  with  alco!iril,  which 
removes  the  green  part  of  the  stain,  Stains  on  wool  or  silk  are  practically 
removed  by  this  treatment. 

3.  Potassium  permanganate.  First  w^h  the  stains  with  soap  and 
water  or  sponge  with  alcfihol, 

4.  Javelle  water.  First  wash  the  stains  with  soap  and  water  or  spouse 
with  alcohol. 

Turtueric. 

Turmeric  is  a  constituent  of  many  pickles  and  of  curry  powder,  to  which 
It  is  added  for  it^  yellow  color  and  aromatir  flavor.  To  remove  such  stains, 
one  of  the  following  agent j$  may  Ix'  Killed: 

I .  Dilute  ammonia.    Remove  frv^h  stJiins  on  white  materials  by  i 
in  this  reagent. 


I 
I 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


2.  Alcohr>l  (grain  or  wood).  Apply  in  the  same  way  as  No.  L  These 
agents  art*  vpo'  Hwtisffu"tt»ry  on  old  Blains. 

3.  Javello  watxT, 

4.  Pofikssium  iRTiimnganiUL'. 

VantiAh . 

See  ** paint  and  varnish/'  page  299. 

VajietiTir. 

Dne  of  the  following  reagents  may  he  employed  in  removing  vaseline 
<itains: 

1.  Turpentine'.  Sponge  fresh  stains  with  this  og^^nt.  Old  atains,  even 
those  which  have  hwn  wajshed  an<l  ironed,  TiKiially  (*an  \h^  removed  hy 
Boaking  ill  tiiqientine,  if  rtire  is  taken  ttt  inimers^e  them  eomplelely, 

2.  AgenU  iiH*'tl  in  Noa.  2,  3,  and  4,  tinder  "grc^nH**/' page  2112,  for  fresh 
stains.  Ordinary  wa-shing  (No,  1,  under  "grease/')  is  not  usually  sufficient 
to  remove  the  stains, 

Wn/tV/m. 

Thf  liltK^grtx-n  tarnish  on  copper,  brass,  and  bronze,  consisting  of  liasic 
copper  carbonate,  m  known  coinmonly  as  verdigris.  In  n'inoving  it  from 
textilen  use  the  following  agents: 

1.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  Stains  thai  are  mert-ly  on 
the  Kurfane  of  the  nmterial  can  sometimea  be  removeil  in  this  way, 

2.  Dilute  acids,  such  aa  vinegar,  or  lemon  juiee.  Apply  one  of  these  to 
the  stain  and  rinse  off  as  aoon  as  it  has  dissolved  the  verdigris. 

Vinegar, 

See  *'acid/*  page  287. 

Wnhutl,  hincL 

Fre.Hh  stains^  whieh  are  still  moist,  usually  can  l:w^  removed,  provided 
the  material  is  strtuig  enough  to  stand  the  treatment,  but  old  stains  or 
stain«  on  delicate  fabrics  hi  many  cases  cannot  be  removed  by  any  of  the 
reagents  tried. 

The  following  reagents  are  Hatisfactory  in  some  cases: 

1.  Concentrated  soap  solution,  prepared  by  shaving  about  1  cubic  inch 
of  laundry  soaji  into  1  pint  of  hot  water  and  stirring  until  dissolvi-d.  Boil 
the  stain  in  this  solution.  This  treatment  is  svtecejwful  only  with  fresh 
ataiBs  upon  cotton  or  linen.  In  the  case  of  weck-okl  stains,  a  gray  color 
penaista. 

2.  Soap  solution  ns  in  No.  Ij  followed  by  bleaching  with  Javelle  water. 
This  treatment  is  effective  in  removing  the  gray  stains  mentioned  in  No,  1, 
in  many  instances. 

3.  Javelle  water,  diluted  with  an  equal  volume  of  hot  water,  S<^ak 
the  stained  place  for  IJo  hours  in  this  solution,  then  rinse  thoroughly, 
treat  mth  dilute  oxalic  acid,  and  rinne  again.  This  is  effective  in  removing 
a  week-old  stain  and  the  hl>ers  of  the  inulerial  are  not  serioualy  injunjd. 


I 


J 


30G 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


BoaklagE  the  stain  in  Javr*lle  watcT  of  full  strength,  howpvor,  rol^  thf* 
material. 

Wat4r  ifpois, 

S(ifni'  Htlks  and  wools  aro  spot  tod  by  water,  ThLn  proUnlily  ilissolvea 
some  of  the  timsJiing  or  weiKlitinp  aubstjincps  present  and  on  cvafKimting 
thesi'  Htjl>8tances  arc  dofwij^itcHl  irn-Kularly  or  in  rings.  A  sjitisfHi^tory 
metbtMl  for  removing  Burh  sixjLs  is  to  darnp(*n  the  entire  raaU'rial  evenly 
and  press  it  whiJe  still  damp.  Either  sponge  the  material  carefully  with 
clean  water  or  shakp  it  in  the  steam  from  a  briskly  Iwiling  teakettle  until 
it  18  thoroughly  damp,  then  press  it. 

White  !ftitic€-fi,  cream  souffs,  grutl,  nnd  the  Hki^. 

These  usually  consist  chiefly  of  milk  and  butter,  thickened  with  flour. 
Flavoring  nmteriids  and  vegctablf^,  which  may  U»  addtxi,  do  not  as  a  rule 
affect  the  character  of  the  Htain,  The  presence  of  the  wlarch  and  gluten 
of  the  flour  makes  it  particularly  hard  to  remove  such  stains  from  materials 
that  cannot  be  washed.  Use  on**  of  the  following  agents  for  treating  thi^se 
stainfli 

1,  8oap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering). 

2,  Hot  water.  Sponge  the  stains.  Follow  this  Ijy  a  grease  solvent 
when  necessary. 

WhtlettHish, 

Whitewash  staioa  should  be  treated  in  the  same  way  as  alkali  bUmos 
(page  288). 

WiriC. 

See  *' fruit  and  l>erriea  (fresh)/*  page  291.  When  the  atain  m  fifiit  mtidt 
s»prinkJe  salt  on  it  to  keep  it  from  spreading. 


I 


PART  III 
CLOTHING 


CHAPTER  XIV 
TEXTILES  • 

By  Beulah  Blackmore 

The  word  textile  tis  used  in  this  chapter  is  applied  to  th# 
common  fibers  and  the  woven  gootls  protluced  from  them.  iSinee 
the  makinp(  of  fabrics  has  been  taken  out  of  the  home,  the  house- 
wife's knowledge  of  materials  ha.s  become  very  limited,  while 
the  industry  has  betai  steadily  ativaneinf!^.  In  fart,  the  manu- 
facturer can  so  disguise,  substitute,  and  adulterate  a  textile 
that  even  the  expert  may  be  deceive*!  by  the  appearance.  No 
objection  should  be  raised  to  aay  fiber  that  is  suited  to  its  par- 
pose;  the  point  for  contention  is  that  the  buyer  frequently  pays 
for  one  kind  of  material  and  receives  another.  Textiles  cannot 
be  standardized  untii  the  consiuner  is  ready  to  train  himself 
through  study,  experience,  and  observation,  to  recognize  good 
materials  and  to  demand  a  fair  return  for  his  money. 

COTTON 

Cotton  has  short,  flat  fibers  with  a  spiral  twist,  charaeter- 
istics  that  give  elasticity  and  the  ixissibility  of  being  spun  into 

•In  this  discussiem  are  frequent  qiioUitiom*^  iia  indiciitetl,  fixim  Soino 
points  in  C'htM>Hirij2  TrxtilfSj  Uy  Vhnrhittx^  M,  (liljbs?  (Bakor),  Univ.  of  Ill.» 
liull,  1'),  Af-knovvli'dgmiiit  is  itls<i  mado  Utr  Viihiabie  pyKgestioiis  fnjm 
The  .Study  of  'I'cxiiips,  l)y  Nt*l!it^  Cnioks  in  ttu*  Pron^ijugs  of  the  Lake 
Plai'id  Qinfercnce  on  Honie  Eeonon^it'fi,  190H,  and  from  Hint^on  Choosing 
Textiles,  hy  Bertha  E.  Tit^worlh,  Bull.  45,  in  the  Cornell  Reading-Course 
for  the  Farm  Home, 

207 


308 


.1   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


fine  threaci  (Fig.  57).  The  quality  of  cotton  materials  depends 
on  the  stren^h  of  the  fibers,  the  fineness  or  coarseness  of  the 
material,  the  weave,  the  color  and  dasign,  and  the  adultera- 
tions,* 

Aduliercdion. 

Cotton,  being  the  cheapest  filxjr,  is  not  aduUeratetl  with 
any  other  fiber  when  the  material  is  to  be  sold  iis  e(jttori  *'loth, 

but  it  can  l>e  made  to  apf>ear  heavier 
by  the  atldition  of  mixtures  called  siz- 
ing. Starches,  jfihiis,  dextrin,  glue, 
china  clay,  as  well  a.s  other  ingreilients 
in  varying  proportions,  constitute  tfiis 
sizing  which  may  add  a  large  |)er- 
centage  to  the  weight  of  the  cloth. 
The  spaces  between  the  threads  are 
filled  up,  and  a  good  finish  is  given  to 
the  clot  h.  although  the  wearing  quality 
is  not  iniprovcHl  If  present  in  large 
quantities,  the  cloth  is  greatly  riHluced 
in  weight  and  firmncs*?  after  the  first 
washing.  Adulterations  of  this  kind  can  l>e  detected  by  the  feel- 
ing, a  large  quantity  imparting  a  harshness  to  the  material.* 

If  material  susjif^cted  of  l)eing  heavily  weighted  or  sized  is 
rublxnl  vigorously  Ix^tween  the  hands,  the  white  chalky  sp(»eks 
of  sizing  may  Ik*  seen  on  the  hands.  If  the  material  is  held  up 
and  torn  quickly,  a  small  clout  1  of  starch  or  sizing  may  Ik;  seen. 
If  very  heavily  starched  material  is  touchetl  by  the  tongue, 
the  starch  may  Ix*  tasted  or  a  sticky  spot  left  on  the  material. 
In  very  thin  fal>rics  the  sizing  may  often  l>e  detected  by  hold- 
ing the  cloth  up  to  the  light,  when  tfie  starch  shows  between 
the  threads.  Wiishing  or  thoroughly  lK*iling  a  sample  in  soda 
wat^r  will  show  the  amount  of  sizing  present. 

Another  methtnt  of  a*lylterating  cotton  is  ^'hown  in  certain 
kinds  of  dotteil  swiss,    A  gofxl  swiss  lias  thread  <lots  woven  or 
eml)roidere<l  in   the   cloth.     These  dots  are   generally  woven 
•  Univ.  uf  111.,  Bull  iri. 


Ffo.  67. — Ccittoti  fibers,  ahow- 
I  ti  ff    the   charRct«tistio 

twist. 


TEXTILES  309 

with  continuous  tiireads  on  t.lit?  back  of  the  rlotli;  and  in  a  later 
process  of  finishing,  tlu*  threads  between  tfie  dots  on  t[ie  wrong 
side  of  the  material  are  sheared  off,  leiivin^  only  the  threads 
which  catch  through  to  make  the  dots  on  the  right  wide.  Oc- 
casionally one  fi ntis  a  piece  of  kwIss  selling  at  the  regular  price, 
on  which  tlie  dots  instead  of  being  woven  as  just  described 
ai^  mei'ely  dots  of  very  stiff  paste.  In  washing,  these  dots  dis- 
appt^ar;  or  if  they  do  not  clisappe^r  entirely,  they  are  made 
brown  from  the  heat  of  the  iron. 

Occtisionally  (*otton  cloth  wliich  has  been  on  the  market  for 
some  time  is  weakened  Ijy  the  action  of  the  chemicals  useii  in 
bleaching,  dyeing,  or  in  the  sizing.  This  may  i>e  easily  detected 
by  tearing  the  cloth.* 

MiTcerimtion, 

AftTcorized  cotton  is  cloth  produced  by  the  action  of  a  strong 
alkali  on  cotton  fiber  rinsed  under  tension.  The  process  of 
mercerization  is  generally  carried  on  while  the  fiber  is  still  in 
the  yarn.  Mercerized  cotton  is  actually  stronger  than  cotton 
which  lias  not  been  so  treateti.  The  c:haract eristic  twist  of  the 
cotton  fiber  is  taken  out,  and  t.hc  cell-wall  is  thickened  by  eon- 
traction.  The  result  is  a  stronger  fiber,  a  long  slender  cylinder 
which  reflects  the  light,  rather  than  a  flat  twisted,  riblK>n-like 
filanient.  The  cellulose  of  the  fiber  is  changed  into  another 
kind  of  chemical  substance  wliich  has  a  much  greater  affinity 
for  dye  substances;  therefore,  beautiful  colorings  may  be  found 
in  mercerized  cotton  materials. 

Tlie  cost  of  producing  a  high  grade  of  mercerized  cotton,  it 
has  been  stated,  is  about  three  times  that  of  immercerized  cot- 
ton; cons{*quently  if  a  piece  of  this  material  is  offered  at  a  very 
low  price,  it  is  well  to  test  it  for  true  mercerization  before  buy- 
ing. This  may  l:>e  done  l>y  tiioroughly  washing  a  sample  or  ex- 
posing it  to  friction  and  the  weather.  The  gloss  of  properly 
mercerized  material  will  not  disappear  on  hard  wear  or  launder- 
ing. 

An  im  if  at  ion  of  mercerized  cotton  may  be  made  by  the  action 


I 

I 

I 
I 


310  A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINC 

of  very  heavy  and  very  hot  cylinders  on  ordinary  cotton  cloth. 
This  imitation  will  not  withstand  friction  or  laimdcriog. 

SUmdarfl  ajU4tn  materials* 

Standard  cotton  nintcritds  such  as  niiLstin.s,  orj<unclic\s,  per- 
cales, calicoes,  and  sheetings  differ  only  in  the  wei|i?lit  of  the 
material,  fineness  of  thready  hardness  nf  (wist,  and  method  of 
finish,  (linKhams  have  the  thread  dyed  before  weaving  and 
fancy  weavers  are  frequently  used-  Dock,  denim,  and  sonie 
other  heavy  materials  have  very  hard  twisted  threads  and  are 
frequently  woven  with  a  twill.  Silkolene  is  a  trade  name  for  a 
fine  cotton  cloth  with  a  silky  finish  given  after  the  cloth  is 
woven.  Mercerized  cottons  make  lustrous  materials,  such  as 
poplin,  imitation  |x>nKee,  and  numerous  attractive  house-fur- 
nisJiing  materials,  India  linon  is  entirely  cotton,  as  are  outing 
flannel  and  canton  flanneL  Miiny  tussjihs,  voiles/ and  economy 
linens  and  other  materials  with  rather  deceptive  names  are  cot- 
ton materials  made  to  imitate  silk,  wool,  or  Iiul'M. 

Uses  of  coUon  materiah. 

Cotton  filler  is  covered  by  cotton  wax,  which  serves  as  a  pro- 
tective coat  and  renders  cotton  material  very  slow  in  absorb- 
ing water.  For  this  rea^son,  cotton  dish-towels  are  unsatis- 
factory. If  a  cloth  to  absorb  moisture  is  desired^  it  must  l>e 
made  of  a  filx^r  that  is  not  water-repellent.  In  absorl)ent  cotton 
the  wax  has  been  removed. 

Cotton  is  light  in  weight  anfl  inexpensive  and  affords  a  muM 
desirable  fabric  for  general  wear.  It  is  esj>eciallv  desirable  for 
undergarments  an*l  house  dress<^,  since  it  is  not  impairfxl  by 
frequent  laundering.  Starch  is  absorbe<^l  by  the  cotton  filx^rs 
as  readily  in  the  process  of  laundering  as  at  the  time  of  manu- 
facture. It  is,  therefore,  possible  to  keep  the  garments  as  fresh 
as  when  new.  Cotton  fabrics  shrink  for  the  first  few  times  that 
they  are  laundered.  The  jx^rcenlage  of  shrinkage  varit>s  with 
tlie  tyiK*  of  liber  and  tlie  method  tjf  manufacture  of  tlie  niaterial. 
A  loosely  woven  matexial  will  often  shrink  more  than  a  closely 
woven  piece. 

•  Opm  cU. 


TEXTILES 


311 


Some  of  tlie  more  common  cotton  materials  are  as  follows: 


Sh€r4mo  shfiuld  have  rcMmd  firm  Ihrrad'i  dosely  parkwl  together  with 
the  warp  and  fillitig  threads  oqiudly  iKiLinrtxl.  Little  sizing  should  U* 
iLHixl.  UiibleachiMi  sheeting  wili  givt;  bctttT  wt'ur  than  fhi*  Iplrachpil,  bo 
cuiuse  fcw€T  chemicals  are  used  in  liniidiing  it.  li  will  become  white  in 
time.    It  i»  nmd  for  bctl  coverings. 

Long  cloth  is  a  soft,  firm  faViric  with  a  close  weave  made  of  t\  fine  grade 
of  cotton  yarn  of  raeditirn  twisL  The  material  is  dull  in  fininh  and  ha.s  a 
rather  fujtzy  nurface,  making  it  undoflirable  for  outer  garments.  It  in 
UiMul  for  undergarments  and  aprons. 

Gambnc  in  a  plain  weave  with  a  smooth  surface  on  one  side.  Tliere 
are  many  grades  of  this  material.  Because  of  it>3  smooth  surface  it  shinhi 
the  dust.  It  is  a  most  desirable  material  for  undergarments,  aprons,  waists, 
and  baby  clothing, 

Naifisook  is  a  ver>^  soft,  light  cotton  fal>ric  with  one  surface  .nlightly 
calendercni,  or  pressed  with  heavy  hot  cylinders  to  give  a  gloss.  It  may  be 
distinguishixi  from  camhrie,  long  cloth,  or  batiste,  Ix^'ause  it*^  con-^t ruction 
is  not  so  firm  nor  its  finish  so  smooth.  It  is  used  for  infants'  clotlies,  lingerie, 
and  vmdergarments. 

Bntide  is  a  sheer,  lustrous  cloth  in  white  and  dainty  colors.  Then-  is 
often  a  mercerizeil  thread  introduced,  in  the  better  grades.  It  is  used  for 
waissts,  dr(*s.ses^  and  baby  clothes. 

Canton  fhtnnel  is  a  heavy  i-loth  with  twilled  surface  on  one  aide  and  a 
soft  nap  <  >n  the  other.  It  is  used  for  children 's  underwear  lx?cause  of  warmt  h 
and  durability,  and  for  linings  in  order  to  add  warmth  to  (jther  garments. 

FlanfU'U'ttc  is  a  soft  cloth  with  a  nap  on  both  sides  of  the  weave  and  with 
figures  printed  on  plain  baekgrounds.  It  is  low  in  t  ost  and  launders  easily. 
It  is  used  for  nightgown.'*,  underwear,  and  eluldren'ts  clothing.  IkHmuse 
flannelette  is  so  popular  for  children's  garments  and  because  it  is  so  in- 
flammal>le,  manufacturers  have  been  working  for  a  long  time  to  find  a 
procc»ss  wherehy  they  may  rc^nder  this  material  permanent !>'  fire-proof 
without  injtiring  the  feel  or  durability  of  the  cloth  or  causing  it  to  appear 
damp  or  making  it  dusty.  The  process  must  not  affect  the  colors  or  the 
design  that  are  woven  into  the  cloth  or  dytd  or  printed  upon  it.  After 
many  investigations,  this  permanent  firc^-proofing  has  l>een  accomplished. 

Calico  is  a  cotton  cloth  with  a  design  print<xl  on  one  side.  Calicoes 
may  be  seen  in  almost  any  color.  The  colors  are  generally  not  fast  and 
will  often  run  or  fade  when  subjected  to  water.  This  material  is  uHuaily 
heavily  sized.  It  is  ustxl  for  inexpensive  dres-ses^  aprons,  and  wrap|x^rs 
because  of  its  low  cost,  its  durability,  and  the  ease  with  which  it  is  laundered. 
Percale  is  much  like  calico^  but  much  su[>erior  in  quality* 

Gingham  has  a  plain  weave  with  warp  and  woof  of  variously  colored 
threads  that  form  plaids,  checks,  and  stripes.  It  is  used  for  dresaej*,  aprons, 
andflliijld. 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Chambray  Ua  stjipio  fabric  of  many  y<^ar8*  sUridirjK.  It  i»  ii  tijcht-weiglii 
Binglr?  doth  tlmt  is  alwayn  woven  with  a  plalu  we4ivo  aitd  alwayii  htu^  s^ 
whjte  srlvag*',  Iuh  efft'ct  is  thut.  of  a  cloth  wovf-n  with  one  rcihir  in  tharl 
warp  and  a  white;  filUng.    It  it*  usch:1  for  drfs-sc-w,  men's  shirts,  and  aprons. 

Gaiaka  is  a  heavy  firm  satix^n  weave  witli  demgn  printed  on  one  Hide. 
It  id  a'^xl  for  children's  clothes^  outing  suita,  and  the  like,  when  a  cloth  of 
stren^h  and  durability  is  desired. 

Cotton  daTmiifh  has  very  much  the  same  appearance  i\a  Unen  datna^k 
Ix^fore  it  i»  waahod.  This  exeelieiit  finish  ih  broyRht  about  both  by  iner- 
cerijiatjon  and  cloth  finisJi.  However,  one  who  buys  cotton  damask  dc^ 
feats  his  own  purpose  in  getting  n  nmt^Tial  that  will  lake  a  gcMxl  polijsh 
and  rc't4iin  its  amootfiness,  fnjm  the  very  fact  that  the  cotton  fiber  is  short 
and  the  ends  of  the  (ilx^r^  earmot  l»e  held  m  place  as  ean  the  fewer  enda  of 
the  hnen  iiberH.  Thert^fore,  after  a  few  washings  the  ctJtton  damafik  has 
a  fii22y  surface,  it  refuses  to  take  or  hold  a  polish,  and  it  h  very  lijup  and 
easily  soiled.    Cotton  damask  is  uaed  for  tiibleclottis  and  doilies. 

Velveteen  is  a  material  woven  in  imitation  of  velvet,  but  it  ia 
wholly  of  cotton.    It  is  uschI  for  tln^^ssos  mid  6Uit«. 

Other  cotton  materials  are: 


I 


For  dreMCA 

Far  househtM  purpatteM 

AlWtniKs 

Lawn 

Awning 

Bi^ft^rd  cord 

Linon 

Chinu                    1 

Biii'krain 

Mull 

(^ash                     J 

Canvas 

Mu>ilin 

Cretonne         ^H 

Chrese^loih 

Organdie^ 

L>enim              ^H 

Cl^fK* 

Peri^ale 

Diapf^r             ^H 

Crinohne 

Perealino 

Mummy          ^H 

Dimity 

Pic,u«:* 

Hep                  H 

Drdl 

Poplin 

8erim              ^H 

Duck 

Batoea 

■ 

Gauze 

Silesia 

■ 

Khaki 

Tarlatan 

■ 

LINEN 

I^inen  was  formerly  the  most   important  vegetable  fiber, 

and  was  cotiiiiionly  u^^^ed  for  all  housohold  purposes.  Of  late 
years  it  has  l>een  largely  replaced  hy  cotton,  with  which  it  may 
be  compared,  although  there  are  still  uses  for  which  linen  is 
demandtni,  and  ot Iters  for  which  linen  is  prefernNJ  to  cotton* 
The  linen  fiber  is  lotig,  srntx>tb,  and  quitf  lustrous  {Fig.  58) 
when  spun  into  a  thread.  It  is  very  strong  arnl  there  are  not  so  j 
many  fuzzy  ends  as  are  found  in  cotton,  (loth  made  from  it  is 
not  only  lustrouii  and  rieh-looking,  but  lx3cause  of  it«  smooth- 


TEXTILES 


nesB  stiays  clean  longer  than  cotton.  The  snowy  whiteness 
of  linen,  obt/uned  wth  some  difficdty  in  bleacliing,  is  quite  per- 
manent, mid  since  the  fiber  takes  dyes  with  difficulty  and  parts 
wHth  them  quite  readily,  it  also  does  not  retain  stains  as  per- 
sistently as  does  cotton.* 

A  dutteralion. 

Linen  is  much  more  expensive  than  cotton,  and  when  linen 
prices  are  paid,  linen  should  be  receivetl.  Since  the  two  fibers 
are  rather  hard  to  distinguish,  espe- 
cially when  heavily  starched  and  given 
a  good  finish,  it  is  easy  to  deceive  the 
buyer.  ' *  Linen ' *  collars  are  frequently 
largely  cotton,  '' linen"  handkerchiefs 
may  not  have  a  thread  of  linen,  as  is 
apt  to  !w  the  ease  with  rather  inex- 
pensive embroidered  handkerchiefs, 
and  table  "linen''  may  be  mercerized 
cotton,  cotton  and  linen,  or  even  or- 
dinary cotton.  To  distinguish  hnen 
from  cotton^  the  threads  should  be  ex- 
aniined  carefully;  cotton  is  made  up  of 
short  fibers  which  project  from  the 
surface  of  the  thread,  and  become  fuzz^"  when  the  thread  is 
rubbed  l>etween  the  fingers;  when  broken,  cotton  has  a 
tufted  end,  white  the  linen  fibers  break  more  unevenlj'  and 
Iea\'e  a  more  pointed  end*  The  linen  thread  should  be  stronger 
than  the  cotton;  it  has  more  luster,  and  is  usually  more  uneven. 
Some  kinds  of  linen  have  flat  threads,  but  cotton  is  frequently 
finished  in  imitation  of  flat-thread  hnen.f 

Cofor, 

Linen  is  more  easily  disintegrated  than  cotton,  and  therefore 
does  nut  withstand  ifje  action  of  boihng  alkali  solutions,  bleach- 
ing jMiwder,  anfl  nxidi/Jng  agents.  This  rliaraet eristic  together 
with  its  sUnv  reactit>n  to  dyestulT,  makes  it  difficult  to  obtain 


Flo.  58. — Linen  filjcrs,  ahonr- 
irig  the  characteriiitic 
nodes  and  longitudinal 
Hiriationfl. 


I 

I 


•  Uiiiv;  yf  111,  BiiU.  15, 


t  Opus  cil. 


314 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME  MAKING 


a  fa^t  color  that  will  take  hold  of  the  fiber.  Natural  color  and 
white  are,  therefore,  more  likely  to  give  complete  satisfaction 
than  any  applied  color  in  linen  fabrics*^ 

Sizing. 

Linen  always  contain«  a  certain  amount  of  8izing,  for  the 
yarn  would  l)rcome  rou^h  in  the  weaving  if  it  were  not  so 
treated.  Often  sizing  is  used  to  conceal  imperfei'tion,  coarso 
weaving;  or  the  use  of  cotton  or  merceri2ed  cotton  fibers. 

Selection. 

GcKxI  linen  yarn  m  round  and  twisted;  if  the  yarn  is  loosely 
twisted  and  flat,  fhe  material  viiW  not  wear  sio  well. 

Linen  fiber  absoH>s  moisture  readily;  it  L**,  therefore,  very 
Miital>le  for  tnwelings  and  for  other  materials  that  are  used  to 
remove  moisture  from  sui faces,  Huck,  an  uneven  weave  giving 
u  gfKjd  surface  for  the  abnorption  of  water,  makes  good  towels, 
and,  decorated  with  do^igiis  in  damask  weave,  may  Ije  very 
tiand*<nme. 

Many  linens  in  plain  weaves  are  available  for  clothing,  or 
embroidery,  while  the  coarse  Russian  crashes  are  becoming 
popular  for  decorative  purposes.  The  texture  of  linen  is  such 
rha!  the  header  kinds  hang  well  in  folds,  lie  flat  on  a  table, 
and  are  very  artistic  for  many  purposes.  The  old  test  for  iden- 
tifying linen  by  moistening  the  finger  and  putting  it  under  the 
cloth  is  not  always  a  sure  one,  since  the  moisture  will  not  come 
through  a  heavy  Uuen,  or  one  with  much  starch  in  it,  and  it 
will  come  through  a  sheer,  tightly  twisted  cotton*  A  better 
tesi  is  to  put  a  drop  of  olive  oil  on  the  cloth  and  pre.ss  it  l>etweeji 
blotting  papers*  The  linen  becomes  more  transparent  than  the 
cotton.  There  is  a  peculiar  leathery  feeling  alx>ut  good  table 
linen,  which  cotton  will  not  give,  and  the  luster  is  different, 
nlthtnigh  this  is  diHirult  to  describe^t 

It  is  more  tliflirult  to  choose  me<lium-pnced  linen  wisely  than 
t4>  chcK>si»  I  he  finer  and  more  exixvisivc*  grades,  iKH-atise  suKstitu- 
tion  for  stn>rig  filler  antl  vaiious  finishes  may  l>e  used  to  lower 

•  C ornrll  Riadiug-Coursi?  for  tlic  Fiurm  Home,  Bull.  45. 
t  I  niv.  of  III,  Bull.  15. 


I 


TEXTILES 


315 


the  priee  whilo  they  rnaiiitfiiii  iUv  appearance*  Shoppers  fejr 
instituiiooM  ;ls  wel!  its  (or  the  Fiuirio  are  uften  laekin^  in  alnlity 
to  jinl|;;e  und  rcinsequejitl}'  liiiy  towels  and  table  linen  whieh 
will  not  give  satisfat'tory^  wear.  Without  training^  the  only 
safe  procedure  is5  to  kec*p  strietly  to  relialile  finns  rather  tlian 
to  be  attraete*)  l>y  what  seeni  to  be  l^etter  values  at.  lower 
priees  elsewhere.  Many  housekeepers  prefer  to  buy  the  un- 
bleached tablecloths  and  bleach  them  for  themselves.  There 
18  economy  in  this,  heeause  the  ehemieal  bleaching  used  almost 
exclusively  for  methum  graders,  weakens  the  fiber.  The  quality 
to  be  avoided  is  poorly  spiuij  Hat,  rather  thin  yarn,  heavily 
sized,  the  cloth  loosely  woven  and  light  in  weight,  sized  and 
beetled  so  that  it  looks  substantial  and  glistening.* 

Characteristics  and  uses  of  some  common  lifwn  fabrics. 

[iHtcher'M  linen  m  a  heavy,  coarse  weave.  It  is  used  for  skirts,  waint^, 
and  aprons. 

Candmr  is  a  fine,  sheer  matcriaL  It  is  used  for  dresaea  and  Ijandkerchiefs 
beeimse  ol  it«  sheer  texture. 

Cra.nh  is  a  coarse  material^  the  yarns  being  irregular  in  size  and  slightly 
flattened.    It  in  ustnl  for  tfiweling,  skirta,  runners,  and  uphoLHtery. 

Daniask  m  a  tine  satin  weave  with  figured  designs.  It  is  used  for  table- 
cloths, napkin.s,  and  ttnvely. 

Huckaback  is  an  uneven  weave  with  much  of  the  filling  showing.  It  iii 
used  for  toweling  berause  of  liii  rough  surface  whieh  ea^iily  absorbs  moisture 
and  causes  a  glow  to  the  skin. 

Handkercfiief  linen  i«  a  firm,  even  weAve  but  a  sheer  material.  It  is  used 
for  waists,  handkercliiefs,  and  baby  dresses. 


I 
I 


WOOL 

In  point  of  quality  wool  belong;H  next  to  cotton,  although  In 
price  there  is  a  long  distance  between  them.  A  scaly  ntructyre 
on  the  Hurface  of  wool  (Fip;.  59),  espeeialb'  marked  in  slieefi's 
wool,  gives  it  virtues  jx>ssessed  by  no  other  tibei%  It  is  by  reii- 
son  of  these  scales  that  wool  mats  together,  that  air  is  held  in  the 
spaces  of  a  woolen  garnientj  that  it  absorlxs  a  great  amount  of 
moisture  without  seeming  wet — eharacteriatics  which  all  have 


•  Medium   priced   linens   for  institution    and    home. 
Woolman.    Journal  of  llorne  Economics,  9:10:447-451. 


Marv   Schenek 


MANUAL 

their  vakio  hi  clothinj^.  Elasticity,  strength,  and  lusior  also 
are  attrihut(»s  of  wcmjK  nwl  thu  kink,  iiinre  nr  le«s  conspicuous, 
aids  in  spiniiinj^  and  also  in  nlentifyin^  the  til>pr.  The  fininh 
given  to  the  Ijcst  grades  of  wooltin  cloth  niiikcs  them  stand  the 
weather  Iwtter  than  do  other  materials.  There  are  a  number  of 
fibers  commonly  ehisst*il  as  wools  which  vary  somewhat  from 
cheep's  w^OfiL  The  more  hair-like  filxTs  from  diJferent  goata 
and  the  camel  do  not  pas^sess  the  felting  qiiality  of  wool,  but  on 
the  other  hand  are  more  lustrous.    Very  attractive  upholstery 

fabricTS  are  made  of  goats '  hair.     An- 
gom  goat  liair  is  many f act  uretl  into 
mohair  as  well  as  the  various  angora 
knitted  fabrics.    CaraeFs  hair  has  a 
numt»er  of  uses,  and  the  public  is  more 
or  less  familiar  with  alpaca  from  the 
animal   of   that    name.      Wool    fiber 
alooe  may    be  spun  a  second    time. 
Loosely  twisted  threads,  sucKas  those 
Fi«.  59.-wwfiiK.r..howmg  ^^  knitted  fabrics  or  worsted  goods, 
the*  rlitirRcteri»tic  srnles  may  be  pulle<]  to  pieces  and  the  filjer 
and  the  aerrated  fiurfftcf^    ^pun   again   either  alone  or  in  com- 
bination with  new  wool  or  cotton,  the  pitnluet  being  known 
as  shoddy.* 

As  compared  with  other  textile  fillers,  wool  is  light  in  weight 
in  proportion  to  its  warmth.  Wool  absorbs  moisture  very 
8lowly.  It  retains  drops  of  moisture  on  the  outside  fil>ers,  and 
the  lustrous  surface  of  these  fibers  often  causes  the  drops  to 
slide  off.  Thu8  it  actually  sheds  moisture.  The  durability  of 
materials  made  from  wool  is  due  to  the  elflistic  nature  of  the 
fiber.  Wools  absorb  dyc»stufTs  rf»adily  and  ordinarily  retain 
them  in  their  original  color  during  tlac  full  life  of  the  fiber. 
The  felting,  or  matting^  quahty  of  wool  is  much  increased  by 
treating  the  wool  with  acid  or  alkaline  solutions  or  even  with 
boiling  wat^^r.  Such  treatment  softtms  the  fiber  and  opens  up 
the  scales  to  such  an  extent  that,  when  the  fabric  is  cooled  or 


I 


•Charlotte   Gibbs   Baker. 
EconoDiics,  8;3:144-147, 


Seven  Textile  FiUuis.     Joumid  of  Home 


TEXTILES 


dried,  the  fibers  interlock  more  firmly  ttiiiii  under  ordinary 
conditions.* 

Adidteration. 

Since  the  demand  for  woolen  cloth  far  exceeds  the  ?*upply  of 
new  wool,  there  are  man}^  devices  for  making  the  supply  go  a 
long  way,  am!  consequently  many  metiiods  for  deceiving  the 
byyer.  The  manufacturer  seeks  a  material  cheaper  tJian  the 
fil>er  he  wishes  to  adulterate,  one  which  can  be  concealed  readily. 
Wool  when  combined  with  the  cheaj>er  cotton  fiber  makes  a 
material  which  wears  welt,  but  does  not  keep  its  shape  as  well 
as  all-wool  cloth,  is  less  warm,  and  should  of  course  demand  a 
lower  price  than  all-wool.  Because  of  the  felting  property  of 
wool,  it  is  quite  possible  to  conceal  a  good  deal  of  cotton  under 
the  surface  of  the  woolen  clotli,  and  when  t!ie  fibers  are  mixed 
hK^fore  the  threads  are  spun,  the  task  of  detecting  them  becomes 
doubly  difficult. t 

By  the  modern  methods  of  manufacturing,  cotton  and  wool 
mixtures  are  becoming  much  more  satisfactory,  and  for  certain 
types  of  garments,  such  as  ih'esses  and  caps,  where  there  is  no 
particular  strain  on  any  part,  the  mixture  has  proved  satis- 
factory. Only  by  comiiioing  filx*rs  is  the  manufacturer  able  to 
meet  the  great  demand  for  material.  For  an  outer  suit  and  an 
overcoat,  nothing  has  been  found  more  satisfactory'  than  the 
all-wool  materiah 

The  most  rehal>le  tests  for  a  mixture  of  cotton  and  wool  are 
chemical  or  microscopic,  but  as  these  are  not  practicalJe  for  the 
average  buyer,  othem  must  l>e  sought.  Wool  has  luster  and  kinks; 
the  ends  of  the  threads  are  stiff  and  look  rather  wiry.  When  a 
sample  is  cairitxl  home,  burning  will  serve  to  distinguish  l)e- 
tween  the  two.  Wool  burns  slowly,  chars,  has  an  odor  of  burnt 
feather,  goes  out  easily,  and  leaves  a  crisp  ash;  cotton  burns 
quickly  with  a  flame,  with  little  odor,  and  leavas  no  ash.  A 
little  practice  in  breaking  the  threads  will  help  one  to  distin- 
guish between  the  two;  the  difference  is  not  one  that  can  l>e 
easily  explained,  but  the  experienced  hou.sewife  knows  it  wellt 

•  Univ.  of  111,  Bull.  15.  t  Opua  cU.  t  Opus  cU, 


I 


318 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Woolens  and  worsteds. 

Two  classes  pf  cloth  are  manJifactorod  from  wool:  wool 
and  worsteds,  Wooleas  are  made  generally  of  short  w« 
carded  and  spun  into  yarn  in  whkh  the  fibers  lie  in  all  direc- 
tions. This  is  woven  into  cloth,  the  surface  of  which  usually  is 
heavily  feltc^d,  a.s  in  flannel  blankets,  s<>  tliat  all  of  the  inter- 
sections of  threads  in  weaving  are  covered.  In  materials  of 
this  class  the  manufacturer  has  great  opixjrtunity  to  introduce 
either  shoddy  or  cotton,  for  the  fil>ers  may  easily  be  covered  by 
surface  felting. 

Worsteds  are  made  from  longer  staple  wool,  combed  and 
drawn  until  the  filjcrs  are  parallel,  then  hard  twisted.  When 
woven,  the  ends  of  the  fibers  Ho  not  project  on  the  surface,  and 
the  finish  is  not  intended  to  cover  the  weave;  hence  it  is  more 
difficult  to  adulterate  unless  entire  cotton  threads  are  woven 
with  the  worsted,  and  these  are  more  easily  detected  than  either 
a  mixture  of  cotton  and  wool,  or  shoddy  in  woolen  cloth.  Com- 
mon examples  of  woolens  are  flannel,  broadcloth,  and  Venetian 
cloth;  of  worsteds,  serge,  challie,  men's  suitings,  and  voile. 
Mohair  is  a  worstetl  cloth  woven  of  the  wool  of  the  Angora  goat, 
with  a  warp  usually  of  cotton  or  silk.* 

It  is  economical  to  buy  good  worsted  fabrics  for  the  following 
reasons:  They  are  made  from  new,  long,  wool  fibers  and  there- 
fore make  a  strong  fabric;  they  seldom  contain  shoddy;  they 
hold  in  place  well  when  pressetl;  they  are  finnly  woven  and  are 
not  easily  frayed;  they  will  endure  constant  wear  for  more  than 
one  season  and,  if  cared  for,  will  look  well  as  long  as  they  last* 

Shoddy,* 

As  has  been  pointed  out,  the  flemand  for  woolen  good^s  is  so 
much  greater  than  the  supply  that  it  is  necesjsary  to  resort  to 
various  measures  to  increase  the  supply  of  cloth.  One  method 
is  to  use  the  wckiI  over  and  ovct  again.  Hags  are  Iwrnght  up  by 
the  rag-man,  sold  to  the  larger  dealer,  again  to  the  "shoddy 
manufactujvr,  who  clciuis  them,  Mirts  them,  tears  thejn 
pieces*,  and  use;*  the  be^st  all-wool  rags  to  produce  tibers, 

*OpU4  cii. 


I 


up  iiy  H 

xldy"  ■ 

mi  to  ■ 

which  I 


1 


TEXTILES 

are  re-«pun  and  ai^ain  wcjven,  either  separately,  if  of  very  goodf 
quality,  or  mixed  with  new  wool  or  cotton.  Siirh  a  material 
is  waiTii,  looks  well  for  a  time,  and  has  its  place,  but  must  not 
be  bought  for  new  wool  or  demand  the  price  of  good  woolen 
doth.  This  industry  is  enormous  and  shoddy  is  often  found  in 
expensive  novelty  materials  as  well  a,s  in  cheap  ''all-wool'* 
cloth.  Because  of  the  shortness  of  the  filKTs,  it  may  be  detected 
readil}^  when  used  alone,  but  in  combination  with  good  wool  it 
is  more  difficult  to  detect. 

One  class  of  shoddy  consists  of  very  short  fibers,  chppinga 
from  the  mills,  which  are  worked  into  the  surface  of  a  felted 
cloth  after  it  is  woven.  These  short  fibers  after  a  time  work  out, 
and  are  found  in  the  bottoms  of  coats  and  inside  the  linings, 
leaving  the  surface  of  the  cloth  threadbare, 

Ckaraderutics  and  usea  of  some  common  woolen  mukrials.         H 

Aibatrnss. — A  material  of  plain  weave*  iind  rather  open  tc.vtyre.  On  the 
surface  18  a  print eti  or  i[nprfsscd  design  giving  a  cr^pe  effect.  It  is  used 
for  dresses, 

Alpnca. — ^A  tbin  fabric  of  close  texture  made  from  the  fibers  of  an  animal 
of  the  llama  six^cie^.  Since  this  fil>er  in  hard  to  spin,  it  is  gcneraUy  combini?d 
with  a  cotton  or  a  pilk  warp.    It  is  used  for  linings  and  dresses* 

AstrakkarL — A  fal>ric  with  a  ciirlj,  wavy  surface  resembling  astrakhan 
fleece*    It  is  used  for  dnws  antl  eoat  trimming,  sut*h  a.s  collar  and  muff  sets, 

Bedford  Cfmf.^A  fine  woolen  cloth  with  ril>8  of  different  widths  running 
with  the  length.  It  is  often  all*w<x)h  but  the  raised  ribs  are  sometimes 
padded  with  cotton.    It  i;*  used  for  dresses,  M 

Boiima  cloth, — A  close  felted  materiab  very  thick  but  Ught  in  weight.  ^ 
The  surface  Is  often  w^avy.    It  is  um'tl  for  suits  and  coats. 

BrUlinfUin€.^X  clotli  ri'st'mbling  mohair,  generally  a  plain  weave  with 
a  cotton  or  silk  warp.  It  has  a  hard  wir>^  feeL  It  is  used  for  dresses  and 
linings  for  hcfivy  coats  and  suits. 

Broadckith.^A  soft,  cU>sc'ly  woven  material  with  a  satin  finish.  The 
surface  is  napped  in  the  finishing  process  and  then  pressed  down.  The 
best  qualities  are  cidled  sjitiu  broatlcloth.    It  is  used  for  dress*3s  and  suits. 

Bunting. — A  plain^  even  thread  weave  of  mohair,  wool,  or  worsted. 
It  18  used  for  flags. 

Caahmere. — Mad*'  from  the  haip  of  the  cashmere  goat.  The  surface*  is 
twilled  but  rathrT  unevf-n,  since  the  yarn  \s  very  difficult  to  spin.  It  i» 
used  for  dR'Ssc^s  and  wraps. 

ChiiUiii. — A  plain,  even  weave  of  soft  texture.  A  cliallis  design  is  always 
printed.    It  is  used  for  dresses,  kimonos^  and  children's  dresses. 


I 


320 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


Ch«mol. — A  stout  woolen  cloth  woven  with  a  rather  shaggy  eurface.  It 
is  used  for  dresses,  suits,  and  wraps. 

Chinchilla. — Heavy  coating  mateiml  with  rough  wavy  surfaoc. 

Covert.— Heavy  twilled  cloth  generally  in  natun^l  undycd  shades.  It 
is  used  for  suits  and  coat«» 

Fell. — Fuljrtr  made  by  pressing  a  maas  of  wool  fiber  together.  It  is 
used  for  paddiog,  banners^  and  table-covers. 

FlanneL — Coarse-threacied,  loosely  woven,  light-weight  fabric  mort*  nr 
lesB  apongy  and  elastic.    It  is  U8ed  for  baby  dresses  and  garrneritfi. 

French  fiunncL — A  fine  soft  twill-woven  variety  dyed  in  sohd  eolof«, 
also  printffl.    It  is  it«ed  for  dri^sses  and  waists. 

Shaker  Jlfimirt. — A  varit^ty  of  whiti*  flaiinol  finished  with  a  nap.  Cotton 
warp  and  woolen  fdling.    It  is  uj^cd  for  baby  dressca. 

Machinmv, — A  very  heav>'  I>larikpt-like  material  used  by  lumbennen 
and  outdoor  workerR  for  overshirts  and  jackets. 

Silk-imrp  flannel.^ A  high-grade,  pure  variety  of  flannel  woven  with  a 
eilk  warp.    It  in  usf-d  for  infants'  wear,  shawls,  and  nmlergarmenle. 

Baby  flannd. — A  light-weight  variety  of  flannei  It  is  used  for  children's 
and  infant*!*  wear. 

f/lomi.— Plain  weave  of  silk  and  wool,  or  silk  and  cotton.  It  is  used  for 
umbrt41a  coveringB. 

Grmmiine. — An  openwork  net-like  fEibric  in  fancy  designs,  \Vovf*n  of 
tdlk  wool,  mohair,  or  cotton.    It  is  usetl  for  drc88C»> 

Hcnridta. — A  twille<J  ciLshniere  of  light  weight.    It  is  used  for  drf^sses, 

HontcHpttH, — A  rcjiigh,  loosely  wov^'fi  material-  The  yarns  are  often 
quite  uneven.    It  is  uwd  for  men's  and  women *s  suitings  and  coatings. 

Kersey. — A  felted  satin-finish  woolen  fabric  with  a  satin  weave  on  the 
back.    It  is  used  for  overcoats. 

lAwiey  woohey.^A  coarse  cloth  of  hnen  and  wooL  It  ia  used  for  inex- 
pensive skirts  and  dresses. 

Meliim.^X  thick  heavy  woolen  fabric  with  a  short  nap.  It  generally 
cjomes  in  black  or  dark  bhie.    It  is  ixstnl  for  coats  and  suits, 

Panama  cloth. — Woven  of  worsted  yarn  in  a  plain  weave.  A  solid  color 
usually  piece-dyed,  or  dyed  after  it  is  wov^-n.  It  is  used  for  dreaiea  and 
.  miite. 

Prunella. — A  rich,  satin-facetl  worsted  fabric,  usually  in  plain  colors. 
It  is  used  for  suits  and  dresses. 

S^ffe, — Worst chI  material  with  twill  weave,  Thi,s  matej-ial  comes  in 
many  weights  and  qualities.  It  may  bo  obtained  in  any  color.  It  is  used 
for  auita  and  dn.'sses. 

Sidiian. — Heavy-weight  cotton  war|)|  mohair  filled  cbth.  It  is  used 
for  dresses  and  linings, 

rar(<»nA.— Fluids  of  various  Scottish  clans.  They  are  worn  as  diaicutial 
floarfs* 

TtMed. — A  soft,  woolly  I  rough-fimahed  woolen  material,     II  is  uau 


TEXTILES 


wcjvori  of  yiirns  of  two  or  more  shades  or  t.*olors.    It  is  yiaod  for  suits  and 

Vehur,^\  Oiirk,  suft,  ff^ltetl  tnutenal.    It  is  used  for  Buite  lind  coata, 

Vicufiit, — A  soft  wool  rioth  with  a  Icasled  surface,  rcst^mbiing  cheviot,  fl 
It  is  uaed  for  waiHfs.  ^ 

Vmh. — Mati'Hfil  woven  witli  a  plain,  even  weave  and  a  hard  twisted 
yariL    li  is  ilj^ed  in  plriin  colors.     It  is  UR(*d  for  dresses. 

WkifKord. — ^W'hipcord  is  much  hke  serge  with  a  pronounced  diagonal  f 
linp.    It  is  used  for  suit.s  and  drcH.sips.  H 

Diurnal, — A  material  with  a  serge  we-ave»  The  diajjonal  effect  is  tnada 
very  prominent.    It  i^  usihI  for  sviita^  dresses  and  separate  skirls. 

UnfiniHft4^ti  worakH, — A  fabric  woven  with  yarn  of  little  twist.  The 
twill  effc'ci  of  the  weave  is  covered  with  loose  fibers*  This  material  m 
very  deniw.    It  is  used  for  suits  and  coats. 

FinMrii  iwr#t/<vi, — Woven  in  nuirti  tlie  same  way  aa  unfinished  worsted 
hut  with  a  much  tiKhtcr  twisted  yarn.  The  weave  may  t>e  distinctly  seen. 
It  in  not  so  dense  aa  the  unfinished  worsted.    It  is  used  for  suits  and  coats. 

Zihelitie. — The  Iwiter  gnidcft  are  woven  with  a  wi>rsted  warp  and  eameTs 
luur  iilling.  These  long  hairs  from  the  filling  spread  over  the  surface. 
It  is  used  for  suits.  ^ 


SILK 
Silk  is  commonly  known  as  the  fiber  of  luxury.    It  is  the  most 
expensive  to  cultivate,  the  most  !x*atitifult  and  the  strongest 
fiber.    Since  it  is  the  most  expensive  to 
l>iiy,  and  the  deoian*!  for  it  Ls  so  larfte, 
the  temptations  tt>  tidnlterate  are  also 
naturally     veiy     ^reat.       The    long, 
strong,     lustrous    silk    fiber    vvhicli 
bleaches  and  dyes  beautifully,  and  is 
fine  as  a  spider's  web  is  not  to  be  dti* 
phcated  (Fig.  60).    The  I  test  grade,  or 
** reeled  silk/'  is  taken  from  the  cocoon 
in  one  continuous  thread  which  oiay 
be  several    hundred   yards   long.     In 
manufacturing  reelwJ    silk,  many   de- 
fective  cocoons   are   founfi   in   which 
the  fibers  are  not  perfect  or  are  broken. 
The  silk  from  these  (*ocoons  may  be 
treated  like  a  sliort  filjer  and  spun  into  threads  varying  in 
strength  according  to  the  length  of  the  fibers.     This  so-called 


Fio, 


60.— Silk  fiber,  showing 
the  two  minute  ft1ami?[it« 
from  the  epinnereta  of 
the  31  Ik  wrfrm  and  the 
giirn  which  at  first  holds 
these  two  htkmcxita  to- 
gether, j 


322 


.4   MANUAL  OF  UOME-MAKJNCf 


"spun"  .silk  has  nor,  the  high  luster  nor  strength  of  *'rcekHl" 
silk,  but  is  often  used  as  warp  willi  reeled  silk  filling,  or  in 
iniitatiori  jxjnget^  and  bat^k  uf  satins,  velvets^  and  in  niaiiy  ntlier 
ways.* 

In  the  raw  state,  uXk  is  soUI  hy  the  i>ound.  Thref*  thoiisanil 
silkworms  are  rcMTiuirtKi  to  spin  one  pound  of  silk,  and  one  to 
two  pounds  are  reciuireti  for  a  dres8.  When  these  figures  are 
considered,  it  will  l)e  seen  why  good  silk  must  neeessarily  U> 
expensive.  There  is,  however,  a  demand  for  a  product  at  a 
nuKlerate  pnce,  and  in  order  to  satisfy  it,  the  manufacturer 
rci^iorts  to  methods  of  adult  era tion.f 

Adidieration.X 

In  olden  times  the  price  of  silk  was  much  greater  than  now, 
but  the  material  was  much  more  duralile.  Silks  which  have  Jjcea 
laid  away  for  a  hundred  ^^eai-s  are  still  in  fairly  good  condition. 
At  present  silks  are  much  cheaper,  but  the  result  is  that  when 
they  are  put  away,  even  for  only  a  few  months  they  may  fall 
into  l)its,  and  their  wearing  quality  cannot  l»e  compared  with 
old  silks.  The  reason  for  this  change  is  not  hard  to  find*  The 
cost  of  raw  silk  is  about  tliirt^^  times  that  of  raw  cotttjn  and  the 
waste  at  least  five  times  thai  of  cotton.  Ttie  manufacturer 
must  make  up  in  s«mie  way  if  he  is  to  sell  silk  at  the  pricas  de- 
manded by  the  public. 

Silk  has  a  very-  great  ability  to  absorb  dyes  and  metallic 
salts  without  apparently  changing  the  quality  of  the  material, 
and  since  dyes  and  metallic  salts  are  mnch  cheaper  than  pure 
silk,  the  manufacturer  maki»s  great  use  of  the^^e  materials. 
Loading  is  the  conunon  name  for  this  process  of  treating  silki 
and  it  is  common  practice  to  add  30  {H*r  cent  of  foreign  material, 
just  the  percentage  lost  by  the  silk  when  the  gum  is  removed, 
while  it  Is  ix)ssible  to  add  250  or  even  3()0  per  cent. 

When  one  buys  novelties  and  does  not  care  how  short  their 
life  is  to  be,  these  heavily  weighted  silks  answer  the  purpose  very 

•Univ.  of  Hi,  Bull  15. 

t  Cornell  RoiMiinK-Coureo  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull,  45, 

}  Univ.  iif  111.,  BiiH.  15, 


TEXTILES  323 

well,  but  they  are  not  durabfe.  Practically  no  »ilk  can  be  found 
on  the  itiarket  entirely  free  from  loading,  but  there  m  a  great 
difference  in  the  amount  present. 

Another  method  of  adulterating  silk  is  with  cotton  and  mer- 
cerized cotton.  The  fibers  are  not  spun  tof^ether  here  iis  the 
cotton  and  wool,  hut  the  threads  of  the  two  materials  are  woven 
together.  In  satins,  velvets,  and  brocades  the  cotton  is  entirely 
covered  by  the  silk  threatjs  on  the  surface,  and  appears  as  the 
back  of  the  cloth.  In  cheap  silks  a  fine  cotton  thread  sometimes 
forms  either  wiirp  or  filling. 

Pong£H?  is  a  material  made  from  the  cocoon  of  the  unculti- 
vated silkwonn;  rajah,  lussah,  and  other  uneven,  coarse  mate- 
rials are  from  the  same  source.  These  silks  are  very  strong,  but 
do  not  have  a  high  hister*  Mercerized  cotton  looks  quite  silky 
and  is  sometimes  mixed  with  these  silks,  or  a  material  of  mer- 
cerized cotton  and  spun  silk  may  be  sold  for  pongee,  or  even  a 
niaterial  entirely  of  mercerized  cotton. 

Ckaracieristics  and  uses  of  some  common  silk  fabrics. 

Bcngaline. —Yvxy  mnihr  to  cotton  rej>.  Woven  entirely  of  siik  hut  often 
padded  with  wool  or  cotton.    It  h  iisod  ffir  waiJ^ts  und  drci!«ea. 

Brticwh. — A  fiibric  woven  with  niiiied  figures  on  a  pUtin  ground.  Oftc^n 
a  combined  ion  of  pltmh  antl  Rjitin  wr'twT.    It  is  ijse<l  for  coats  and  dre.**se8, 

BroaiicL — A  kiml  of  brocade  often  having  wool  fi|^irca  on  a  silk  back- 
ground.   It  Ih  used  for  draperies  and  upholstering. 

Chcnilk. — Cloth  woven  with  a  sijft  fuzzy  face.     It  is  used  for  curtains. 

Chiffon.— 'A  thin,  transparent  silk  mat^?ria!  with  plain  weave.  It  i»  used 
for  dress  trinimingSt  fancy  work,  and  millinery. 

China  silk. — A  plain  woven,  linht-weiKht  silk.  The  warp  and  ^Uing 
are  evenly  balanced.  This  silk  may  be  obtain od  in  any  color.  It  is  used 
for  gowns,  waints,  and  imderclothinj^. 

Cripe  de  chine. — A  soft  lustrous  ailk  woven  with  tightly  twisted  threads. 
The  threafLs  are  so  tmsted  and  wovm  as  to  make  a  cr^pe.  It  may  be  ob- 
tttinetl  in  printed  designs  or  plain.  It  i«  used  for  dresses,  waists,  and  nmler- 
gtirtnt'TiiH. 

Fouturd. — A  plain  silk  cloth,  very  bo(1  and  highly  finisher  J.  This  .silk 
wears  excellently.    It  is  usihI  for  dresses. 

India  mlk. — ^Very  similar  to  China  silk.    Originally  woven  in  f  odiu. 

Japancae  /n^/c. ^Similar  to  China  and  India  silk. 

Jersey  doth.—Thm  material  is  a  soft  knitted  fabric  in  plain  colors.  It 
is  used  for  dresses,  suits,  and  gloves. 


I 

I 

I 


I 


324 


A   MANUAL  OF  UOME-MAKINQ 


Meteor. — Crdpe  de  meteor  b  similar  to  cr6pc  de  cliino  in  texture.  lu 
face  is  more  satiny.    It  ia  ui^  for  wai^tM  and  drcnst^s. 

Mmri. — A  waved  or  watertxl  cfTert  prfxiuc€d  on  plain  or  ribbed  silk* 
It  is  used  for  drosscB,  trimmirigK,  and  linings. 

Panne,— A  name  appUod  to  velvets  when  tho  pile  is  presHod  down  giving 
n  higb  lustex.    It  ia  u«ed  for  coats,  evening  dreasi-s,  and  n^illinf*ry. 

Pmn  de  sde, — A  heavy,  soft-finished  silk  inateriaL  It  is  8o  woven  that 
line  close  ril>8  m&y  b<*  acH'n  niniung  with  the  filling.  Better  grmleH  urc  tho 
same  on  both  ^ides.    It  is  iisetl  for  dreflSCB  and  coats. 

PiiMf/*,— Iviing-piled  fal>ric  resembling  velvet.  It  is  used  for  H'mpfl  wid 
dreases. 

PtmQte. — ^A  soft  plain  unblcaehed  waahable  silk.  It  \a  used  for  waists, 
dreases,  and  coats. 

Poplin. — A  ribU'cl  mati^rial  resembling  cotton  poplin.  It  w  used  for 
dreaseSf  waists,  and  i}uit>i. 

^arcenH. — An  ojjen,  plain,  rather  stiff  silk  resembling  cotton  nuill.  It 
ifl  used  for  hjii  linings. 

Saiin. — A  silk  material  with  a  very  high  finish  caused  by  the  Roating 
of  silk  threads  over  t  he  surfare.  There  are  many  qualiti€*9  and  variations 
of  this  material.    It  is  mcd  for  drewwcs,  linings,  and  trimmings. 

Taffeta. — TafFrta  is  either  plain  or  wfiven  in  lint^  so  fine  as  to  appear 
IK»rf(>ctly  plain.  It  may  be  (>i4ainc*d  in  a  gn^at  nnmlwr  of  ornamental 
patterns  sueh  a.H  fancy  eurds,  piaidi*,  and  stripei^,  both  printed  and  wnven. 
It  is  used  for  dresses,  suits,  and  trimmrngs, 

Tulte. — Oijenwork  silk  net.  It  is  uf*e<i  for  draperies  and  evening 
dreases. 

Veitfet. — Material  so  woven  that  the  surface  is  covered  with  projecting 
fibeni.  The  better  quali  ties  arc  made  entirt^y  of  silk.  It  ia  used  for  dresses, 
coata,  and  suits. 

Vebeteen. — A  material  woven  in  imitation  of  velvet,  but  made  wholly 
of  ootloti.    It  is  used  for  dresses  and  suits. 

ARTIFICIAL  SILK 

For  years  cheniists  of  Ainerira  and  Europe  have  endeavored 
to  make  a  filler  which  would  compare  favorably  with  silk.  A 
number  of  so^cralh'd  artificial  silks  have  been  made  sy^ithetieally^ 
but  each  has  lackecl  some  desired  eharacteristie.  One  has  not 
withstood  moisture,  another  lacked  strenjictht  it  third  was  not 
suffieiently  pliable,  and  so  on.  It  is  only  recently  that  a  satis- 
factory filxiT,  which  can  be  manufactured  at  a  reasonable  price, 
ha«  lieen  developcHl.  The  artificial  silk  now  commonly  found  on 
the  market  is  a  eollodian-likc  sulistance,  made  from  cotton  or 
wool  filjer,  put  tbroygli  capillary  tul3c«,  hanlened  in  the  air  and 


TEXTILES  325 


I 


so  treated  that  it  will  withstand  rnoisturcv  This  fiber  may  be 
nianufaeturpd  at  a  cost  below  that  of  pure  silk,  and  has  the 
promise  of  u  great  future.*  m 

The  artificial,  or  filu^r,  silk  is  used  in  many  knitted  sweaters,  f 
scarfs,  dress  braids ^  fancy  ribbons  and  is  combined  with  both 
pure  silk  and  cotton.  It  may  always  lie  detected  by  its  bril- 
h'aney  and  stiffness.  If  the  burning  te^t  is  used,  artificial  silk 
is  found  to  burn  with  ahiiost  explosive  rapidity.  It  also  dis- 
inteia:rates  if  it  comes  in  contact  with  water;  but  this  deficiency 
is  being  gradually  overcome  by  science. 


RAMIE 

Ramie,  a  vegetable  fiber  of  anticjuityi  has  until  very  re- 
cently been  used  ahiiost  exchisively  in  China  and  Japan.  A 
highly  lustrous  fiber,  in  this  respect  surpassing  linen,  and  very 
white,  its  use  has  been  limited  by  the  difficulty  with  which  the 
fiber  is  removed  from  the  surrounding  woody  tissue.  Ramie  haa 
been  used  in  combination  witb  silk  and  cotton,  its  luster  making 
it  hard  to  distinguish  when  woven  with  silk,  and  adding  rich- 
ness when  combined  with  cotton.  Japanese  and  Chinese  em- 
broideries on  this  material  have  lieen  common  in  the  markets  for 
some  years,  but  only  recently  has  ramie  linen,  by  the  piece, 
been  solti  in  this  coimtry.  As  methods  for  producing  the  fiber 
are  improved,  more  of  it  may  Vjc  expected  to  appear  on  the 
market,  and  the  shortage  of  European  linen  due  to  the  war  may 
give  an  impetus  to  the  importation  of  ramie  from  the  Orient.f 

At  present,  ramie  Is  comliined  with  cotton  or  linen  or  used 
alone  in  making  dress  materials. 

JUTE 

Jute,  another  vegetable  fil>er,  is  familiar  in  sacking,  twine, 
and  door-mats,  but  it  is  not  expected  in  finer  materials.  The 
natural  color  of  this  fii>er  is  somewhat  darker  than  linen  color, 
it  is  harsh  and  coarse,  yet  it  has  considerable  lustier.  In  burlap 
the  fiber  is  used  alone,  while  in  monk's  cloth  it  is  combined  with 

*  Baker,  Charlotte  Gibbs.  Seven  Textile  Fibers.  Journal  of  Home 
Eponomii-s,  S:3:144-l  17. 

t  Journal  of  Home  Economics,  8:3: 144-147. 


1 


326 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKIXO 


cotton  in  a  hcai-^'  materiaK  In  its  natural  color  it  adds  a  pleai*- 
ing  tone  in  a  more  denim-like  cotton  and  jute  fabric,  particu- 
larly when  the  cotton  is  in  soft  tones.* 

TESTS    FOR    FABRICS  t 

A  general  comparison  of  fabrics  may  fx?  made,  but  this  will 
mean  httle  even  to  tlio  expert,  since  each  cla,s.s  inchides  so  great 
a  variety  of  fabrics  which  differ  widely  in  appearance,  feel,  and 
strength. 

Feel 

The  feel  of  many  fabrics  verj"  closely  resemble  that  of  the 
raw  fiber* 

Cotton  materia!:  Unrcsqxjnsive,  soft,  and  inelaatic*  Cotton  bcM?AU9c  of 
its  inelasticity  crushes  ejisily.  It  may  tx*  made  to  took  and  feol  somcw^hat 
like  wool,  but  it  always  Tf tains  its  infiai*tie  ehuractmstic. 

Wool  material:  Springy,  harsh,  and  rliLHttc,  The  elasticity  of  wool  is 
one  of  its  most  drsirahtc  qualitifn*.  If  a  woolen  garment  iMH'umes  wrinkled, 
many  of  the  ereiua^s  fall  out  if  the  garment  is  merely  hung  away,  Thia 
reaponsivenesa  ia  caused  by  ita  elasticity.  If  wtxilen  materia]  ia  combined 
with  much  cotton  or  shoddy  in  either  spinning  or  weaving,  it  lo^es  much 
of  its  elasticity. 

Silk  material:  Smooth,  cool,  and  very  ela.*?tie.  If  silk  ia  of  go<Ki  quality, 
it  is  the  mo8t  elastic  materia!.  For  thi^  reason,  Bilk  Kurnjcnl^  hunjf  away 
will  look  very  smooth  and  fresh  in  a  short  time.  Silk  \o»ea  this  quality 
when  adulterated  with  mercerised  cotton  or  he^ivily  weighted. 

Linen  material:  Firm,  stiff,  smtx>th,  coldt  very  ttiflastic,  and  leathery 
if  woven  with  a  firm  weave.  The  yctj  iiielastie  quahty  of  linen  causes  it  to 
entsh  readily  and  thus  to  require  continual  tinnssing.  If  adultca^ted  with 
cotton,  it  loses  somewhat  its  firmness  and  smoothness. 

Artificial  silk  material:  Very  smooth,  wiry,  and  cold.  Artificial  silk 
tnAt«rift]  is  very  unyielding.  If  combined  with  another  fiber,  it  is  much 
more  aatiafactory. 

i^amie:  Firm  and  stiff.  It  resembleis  both  linen  and  cotton.  It  does  not 
crush  quite  so  easily  as  linen. 

Strength. 

No  satisfactory  comparison  of  the  Rtrenp;t.h  of  different  fabrics 
can  be  made,  sinee  this  depends  on  the  size  and  quality  of  the 

*  Journal  of  Home  Economies,  8:3:144-147. 

tThis  material  is  condensed  tnnn  Test^  for  Fabrics  as  diaeuned  nn 
i3!rB«niaking«  by  Jane  Fales^  published  by  Charles  8cribner%  Sons, 


ai*-      ■ 


TEXTILES 


yam  and  the  kind  and  quality  of  the  weave.  The  strength 
of  a  fabric  has  much  to  do  with  its  wearing  finality,  but  there  can 
be  no  fixetl  standard.  Each  fabric  should  Im^  sufficiently  strong 
for  the  purpose  for  which  it  is  intended. 

The  warp  and  tilling  threads  should  be  equally  tmlanced 
either  in  numbers  or  size  of  yarn.  Dimity  is  an  example  of 
unbalanced  war[)  and  filling;  it  is  well  known  that  after  a  few 
washings,  dimity  Ijreaks  along  t he  heavy  tln'eads.  The  weaving 
should  tie  well  doru^  with  the  threads  closely  enough  woven  to 
give  firnmc*ss  and  body  to  the  cloth  without  any  adulteration 
and  sizing. 

The  strength  of  the  %varp  and  tlie  filling  threatis  may  lie 
tested  by  breaking  the  threads  after  raveling.  The  size  and 
twist  of  the  yarns  should  also  be  observed* 

The  threads  should  not  slip  out  of  place  with  a  slight  strain. 
To  test  durability  in  this  respect,  two  edges  may  be  pinned  to- 
gether as  for  a  common  seam,  and  the  material  opened  apart 
and  pulled  on  both  sitles  of  the  pin.  If  the  pin  makes  conspicu- 
ous holes  in  the  material,  one  may  l>e  sore  the  cloth  cannot  Ix* 
satisfactorily  used  for  a  garment  that  would  have  strain  at  the 
seiuns. 


Color, 

Color  is  affected  by  various  factors,  ehiefly  by  washing,  boil- 
ings soap^  hot  irons,  wear,  friction,  and  exposure  to  suo  and 
air. 

Cotton  and  Imens  must  generally  be  tested  for  launtlering. 
A  sample  should  be  cut  in  two,  and  one-half  kept  fresh.  The 
other  lialf  sliouid  be  subjected  to  vigorous  soap  and  water 
washing,  dried,  presserl,  and  then  compared  with  the  original 
sample.  The  samiile  may  l)e  ex^wsed  to  strong  sunlight  f>y 
placing  it  outdoors  for  a  few  horn's  or  days.  Half  of  the  sample 
should  be  kept  covered  so  that  the  degree  of  fading  may  be 
observed. 

Materials  worn  next  to  the  skin  should  have  sufficiently  fast 
color  to  withstand  friction.  They  may  be  tested  by  vigorous 
rubbing  with  a  piece  of  clean  whit<2  cloth. 


328  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

Burning. 

Burning  a  Bmall  sample  of  cloth  gives  about  the  same  resul 
as  burning  the  fiber.    The  closeness  of  the  weave  may  somewhat 
retard  the  rapidity  of  the  buniinjK.    This  is  one  of  the  best  and 

most  rchable  tests  for  the  housewife. 

Cotton;  Since  cotton  is  celIulo»c,  it  bunis  like  paper  or  wood.  Cotton 
material  burns  nipidly  and  with  a  steady  yellow  flame  leaving  a  gray  iish 
without  retjidue. 

Wool:  Wool  burns  much  like  hair,  smouklering  iind  becoming  extin- 
guiahrd  often.    Woolen  material  leaven  oiJy»  gummy  globules  as  a  residue. 

Silk:  *Sinc€*  silk  m  an  animal  fiber,  it  burn.^^  much  like  wool»  altlnrngh 
more  rapidly,  with  a  blue  leanitig  flame,  h  leaves  an  oily,  gummy  globule. 
Unless  silk  material  is  weigh  tcnl,  when  burned  it  is  .^^irnilaj*  lo  the  ftilk  fiber. 
If  the  silk  niaterial  is  heavily  weighted,  the  bump*!  fiibric  leaves  a  Hhell-like 
residue  slightly  smaller  than  the  f^ample.  This  remaining  shell  is  the 
weighting  which  does  not  bum  easily;  it  crumbles  at  the  aligbtcst  touch. 
More  satisfactory  than  lighting  a  silk  sample  is  to  place  the  sample  on  a 
tin  dish  and  set  it  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Tlie  Bilk  will  burn  away  leaving  the 
weighting  in  the  ahape  of  the  original  sample. 

Linen:  Since  hnen  i^  a  vegetable  fiber,  it  bums  in  much  the  same  way 
as  cotton.  It  is  slightly  \v^  inflammable  than  cotton,  beeause  it  has  more 
oil;  it  leaves  al>out  the  sfmie  {xAi. 

Union  goodie :  In  testing  union  goods,  or  materinls  mjidc  of  several  dif- 
ferent filH'ra,  the  problem  ii?  more  diflicult.  In  this  ease  the  material  is 
frayed  and  b*>th  the  wiirp  and  the  tilling  tested  separately.  To  carry  the 
test  shll  further,  Ijoth  the  warp  and  the  filling  threads  may  be  untwisted 
and  the  various  fibers  in  each  yarn  tested. 

Tearing, 

The  tearing  of  material  will  help  to  determine  in  a  general 
way  the  kind  of  filler  as  well  as  the  strength  of  the  material. 

Cotton  material:  Cotton  material  tears  c^isily  with  a  shrill  sound.  Tlic 
torn  edges  are  fuzzy  and  have  a  tendency  to  curt. 

Wool  material:  Wool  material  tears  with  a  dull  or  muffled  sound.  The 
ease  with  which  the  cloth  tears  depends  on  the  weight  of  tlie  yam  and  the 
weave.  If  cotton  and  Wixil  are  woven  together,  the  kinds  of  fibere  may 
often  he  distinguiKht^d  along  the  tear* 

Plain  silks:  Plain  silks  tear  with  a  ratlier  clean  edge  and  give  a  shrill 
sound.    If  corded,  the  ^ilk  tears  with  diflicidty  if  at  all. 

Linen:  Linen  tears  with  difhciilty,  leaving  the  ends  of  the  broken  threads 
with  long  straight  smooth  fibera  projecting.  If  cotton  is  present  in  a  hnen 
fabric,  it  may  often  be  distlngui^ed  along  the  torn  edges. 


I 

I 

I 


TEXTILES 


WEAVE  ' 

The  weave  affects  the  appearance  and  often  the  wearing 
quality  of  cloth.  A  close  twill  weave  makes  a  fimi,  (Uirable  ma- 
terial, while  the  loose  ha^^ket  weave  give.s  quite  a  different  effect 
and  is  frequently  lacking  in  firmness.  The  satin  or  sateen 
weave  makes  a  beautiful  surface  especially  in  linens  or  silks, 
but  may  cover  up  defects  in  the  hidden  tlireads.  Fancy  weaves 
in  cotton  novelties,  in  shirt-waist  materials,  and  in  fancy  mulls, 
often  leave  loose  threads  which  become  soiled  easily  antl  may  not 
be  as  attractive  after  washing.  A  cloth  with  a  verj-^  heaiy  cross 
thread  or  filling,  and  a  very  fine  warp,  or  vice  versa,  may  split 
because  of  the  great  dtfTcrence  in  tlie  strength  of  the  threads. 

Sometimes  figures  are  woven  in  such  a  way  that  wlien  the 
cloth  is  finished  each  figure  has  short  ends  of  thread  For  ex- 
ample, in  weaving  madras  curtain  material,  the  filling  thread 
which  makes  the  figure,  jumpH  from  one  figure  to  another,  and 
after  the  material  leaves  the  looni»  the  loose  threads  on  the  back 
of  the  material  are  cut  off.  Often  these  short  pieces  wash  out, 
or  the  ends  become  rough  and  fuzzy  looking. 

♦  Univ.  of  m.,  Bull  15. 


CHAPTER  XV 

THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 

By  Beulah  Blackmore 

To  the  woman  goiierally  hi\h  the  r<?sjK>n.sibility  of  the 
or  unwiso  expenditure  of  thzit  part  of  the  family  income 
poilioiied  to  elotliing.     Whether  sUe  sjxhkIs  wisely  depends  on 
her  knowledge  of  all  phases  of  the  clothing  prol>lem,  ^ 

One  of  tht;  hr^t  quest ioos  that  arises  is  whether  she  shall  buy  H 
ready-made  garments  or  l>iiy  the  materials  and  make  similar 
garments  at  home.  The  eondit  ions  surrounding  eaeh  individual 
or  family  are  so  difTerent  iii*  to  make  impossible  an  answer  tci  ■ 
this  question  which  will  suit  all  cases.  Probably  skill,  time,  and 
the  limitation  of  one\s  purse  are  the  most  influential  factors  in 
such  a  choice. 

When  selecting  materials  or  garments,  one  should  be  able  to  ^ 
judge  the  durability,  including  the  quality  of  the  material, jl 
their  suitability  to  the  occasion  for  which  the  garments  are  to  be 
worn  and  to  the  wearer,  the  Ijecomingness  of  color  and  line,  and 
the  price  in  relation  to  the  clothing  allowance  from  the  income. 

Clothes  have  the  |>ower  to  make  persons  feel  comfortable  and  ^ 
at  ease  or  to  make  them  conspicuous  and  unhappy.  This  does  | 
not  mean  fhat  the  costume  need  be  new  or  old;  it  means  that 
it  should  \yc  appropriate  and  becoiuing.  It  means  adapting 
the  prevailing  style  to  one's  own  type  of  figure  and  personatity. 
A  person  may  be  just  as  conspicuous  in  an  ultra-fashionable 
costume  as  in  one  that  is  very  out-of-ilate;  but  either  may  be 
adapted  to  conform  with  good  taste»  without  a  great  expendi- 
ture of  time  or  money. 

To  Im*  well  dressed  the  woman  who  makes  her  own  garments 
must  depend  largely  on  familiarity  witli  the  principles  of  design, 
a  critical,  discriminating,  and  thoughtful  attitude  toward  clotli- 

330 


I 


A 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


331 


ing,  common  sen.se,  skill  in  the  manipulation  of  fabrics^  in 
draping,  or  in  cutting  cloth  l>y  a  pattern  and  knowledge  of  the 
best  eq u i p m e n t  to  1m*  iisc^d .  ' *  1{ i gl 1 1  d re.ss  is,  t he rt3 f o re ,  that 
which  is  lit  for  the  s^tation  in  life,  and  the  work  to  l>e  flone  in  it, 
and  wliich  i.s  otherwise  graceful,  becoming,  histing,  healthful  and 
easy;  on  occasion  splendid;  always  as  beautiful  as  possible/'* 

Dictates  of  fashion  too  often  outweigh  one's  goo<:l  Judgment, 
w^hich  in  this  case  should  have  as  a  background  the  principles  of 
design.  Clothing  should  interpret  the  personality  of  the  wearer 
and  emphasize  pleasing  elements  of  face  or  figure  rather  than 
exhibit  the  prevailing  fashion,  which  often  exaggerates  defi- 
ciencies instead  of  concealing  them. 

No  costume  can  be  artistic  or  picturesque,  although  it  may 
l>e  considered  fashionabk*,  if  it  perverts  the  natural  lines  of  the 
figure.  In  good  design  it  is  generally  possible  to  emphasize 
the  good  points  or  lines  of  the  figure  and  to  make  the  less  de- 
sirable lines  inconspicuous.  This  necessitates  careful  considera- 
tion of  the  silhouette.  Simplicity  in  silhouette,  in  line,  in  the 
divisions  of  the  costume  made  t>y  line  or  dark  and  light,  and  in 
decoration,  cannot  be  overestimated.  The  .search  for  greater 
simphcity  and  for  original  detail  arc  the  two  principles  followed 
by  the  greatest  liesigners* 

Of  equal  imjiortancM*  with  line  and  tiie  spaces  formed  by  these 
lines  is  the  study  of  color,  texture- — ^an  extremely  subtle  surface 
quality  of  a  fabric  often  eonfased  with  color^ — and  dark  and  hght 
values  (pages  45  to  47).  This  is  a  problem  for  each  individ- 
ual; it  can  not  be  studied  too  much.  After  deciding,  then,  on 
the  ty|>e  of  gown  necessary  for  the  occasion  for  whicli  it  is  to  be 
worn,  the  following  pliases  of  costume  design  must  be  considered, 
if  the  result  is  to  l>e  harmonious  and  beautiful:  silhouette;  line, 
incluiling  space  division  and  balance;  dark  and  light  spacing; 
color;  texture. 

It  is  unwise  to  lay  down  hard  and  fast  rules  for  the  use  of 
suitable  color  in  costumes  for  different  types  of  persons,  be- 
cause general  rules  may  have  many  exceptions,  TIic  following 
table,  however,  may  be  suggestive, 

♦  John  Raskin.    Airowa  of  the  Chace* 


332 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


h 


.1       Jt 


ill 

O'iS 


f 

H 

|J 


;^^^ 


Is 


.9 


O.Q 


4 


^■2 
SL8 


1!»    I 

J  ?    ? 


-1»^ 
"*l> 

>> 

^:S 

<a 

P. 

|f 

^~-b 

c  ^ 

11 

Ji 

2f 

J 

ii 


n  >^  b 

111! 


ill 

If 

c  a  K 


^^^^^^mM 

.riM^-        ^^^H 

THE  MAKING  OF  CWTHING 

333    1 

3 

J3 

1 

I 

iE 

■ 

•ill  illl 

III 

1 

1 

lis 

1 

6 

a        w 

»33 

-C  0 

<1 

Sl1 

1-5 

•:if 

ni 

c 

f 

.2 

1 

1 

.a 

1 

1 

1 

it 

.5 

1 
i 

a 

1                         < 
< 

j^  i^i 

If 

1 

-  p 

1 

i: 

Jl; 

i        ».l 

0  III 

. 

iiJ  ill 

.3 

g 
1 

1 

a 

[I 

11 

lis 

'lili 

If   i 

Iff 
111 

1 

Ii 
1 

1^  i 

If 

>  U  *j 

1 

^ 

^ 

e 

1 

' 

^^^^B 

334  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


EQUIPMENT   FOR   THE   SEWING    ROOM 

Good  equipniont  is  necessary  if  the  home  worker  is  to  turn 
out  j^ootl  work  with  the  lefisi  rlraifi  or  her  own  strength.  In 
addition  to  the  cosioniary  iiieccs  of  equipment,  a  floor  ehith,  a 
dress  form,  a  sleeve  form,  and  pn^ssiug  boards  arc  almost  necet*- 
sary  eonvenience^. 

A  tlt>rii-  eloth  is  a  large  square  of  cloth  or  a  sheet  which  may  lye 
placed  on  the  floor  under  the  machine  to  catch  ravelings  and 
cnttin>i:s.  This  cloth  may  tlien  be  fokled  around  the  base  of  the 
machine  at  night  and  opened  when  work  is  redumed^  or  it  may 
be  shaken, 

A  dress-form  is  almost  indL^pensable,  when  good  work  and 
time  are  considered.  This  may  be  oblainiHl  at  a  department 
store,  or  ordered  directly  from  a  manufaeturer,  A  dress-form 
ig  bought  hy  size,  thenumlxT  corres{x>nding  to  ready-made  gar- 
ments. A  form  one  or  two  sizes  too  small  should  bo  seleeted 
and  padded  out  to  the  correct  size.  Only  in  this  way  is  one 
able  to  make  a  form  showing  individual  mea.^urements.  A  tight- 
fitting  lining  must  be  made  of  some  very  heavy  material,  sueh 
a.s  unl>leached  muslin  or  drilling,  and  fittefl  on  the  i>erson.  The 
normal  armhole,  nock,  f)ust,  waist  and  hip-line  should  lie 
marked.  The  hning  should  be  made  to  extend  afjout  10  itjelK« 
below  the  waist-line  or  to  fit  well  down  over  the  fullest  part  of 
the  body.  This  lining  should  then  lx^  placed  on  the  form  and 
padded  out  with  tissue  paper,  hair,  or  excelsior.  The  hning 
should  be  overhanded  firmly  together  in  the  back,  from  the  top 
of  the  collar  to  the  bottom  of  the  pc^plum.  It  is  also  desirable  to 
make  a  skirt  for  the  figure  which  will  fit  tightly  around  the  hips* 

A  sleeve  lx>ard  and  a  skirt  hoard,  well  padded,  are  very  use- 
ful. It  is  also  convenient  to  have  a  padded  bi-oom  handle  over 
which  seams  may  be  pressed  without  marking  the  remainder  of 
the  garment* 

Sewing  machine* 

There  are  two  t>T)es  of  sewing  maehine  in  use — the 
matic,  or  single-threatl,   and  the   lock  stitch,  or  two-thread 

•  Ext   Circ.  14,  ColL  of  Agr.,  Univ,  of  IJL 


i 


I 


I 


aut^)-  I 
bread  I 


1 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING  335 

machine.     The  single-thread  machine  makes  a  chain  stitch, 
which   reciuires  about  a  half  more  threat!  than   the  double- 
thread  machine.    The  stitch  on  the  former  is  a  very  fine,  pretty 
one,  and  for  tiiin  cotton  and  linen  materials  it  cannot  be  ex- 
celled.   The  ends  of  the  tliread  must  }>e  fa,*<t(*ned  to  prevent 
the  stitching  from  ripping  out.    The  two-thicad  machine,  which 
makes  a  lock  stitch,  has  a  greater  variety  of  uses,  as  the  tension 
is  adjustable  to  the  material  which  in  being  used.    The  thread- 
ing,  operating,  and  oiling  of  the  machine,  and  the  use  of  the  at- 
tachments are  all  described  in  the  instruction  l>ook  which  ac-  fl 
companies  the  machine.    The  following  suggestions  will  be  of  " 
assistance  to  those  who  arc  unfamiliar  with  the  operation  of  the 
lock  stitch  machine:  (1)  Practice  treading  until  it  can  be  done 
easily  and  evenly;  (2)  practice  stitching,  first  on  paper  before 
the  machine  is  threaded^  then  on  material,  either  plain  or  striped; 
(3)  be  able  to   remove   the  bobbin,  thread  it,  and  rephice  it,  — 
and  always  draw  up  the  boljbin  thread  l>efore  beginning  to  ■ 
stitch;   (4)  practice  threading  the  machine,  and  then  stitch 
until  good  straight  lines  can  be  made;  (5)  to  turn  a  corner, 
have  the  needle  at  its  lowest  point  and  use  it  as  a  pivot;  (6) 
in  removing  the  work  from  the  machine,  have  the  needle  at 
its  highest  point,  raise  the  presser  foot,  and  draw  the  material 
back  and  to  the  left,  cut  the  threads  with  the  tliread -cutter  or 
with  scissors;    (7)    where  there  is  no  cmss  stitching,    always 
draw  the  ends  of  the  threads  to  the  wrong  side  and  tie  them;  (8)  ■ 
good  stitching  depends  on  several  factors:  (a)  Correct  length  " 
of  stitch:  Tlu*  longtli  should  i-onfonn  to  the  material.     Heavy 
cloth  rt^^yircs  a  longer  stitch  than  does  a  thin  material,    Tho 
length  is  regulated  by  a  screw,    (b)  Tlie  tension:    The  tension 
is  also  governed  by  the  material    In  a  perfect  tension  the  bobbin 
and  the  spool  threads  lock  in  the  center  of  the  thickness  of  the 
cloth.    If  the  bobbin  thread  is  drawn  to  the  upper  side  of  the 
cloth  as  it  lies  in  the  machine,  the  tension  is  too  tight;  and  if  the  M 
spool  thread  is  drawn  to  the  lower  side,  the  tension  is  too  loose.  ■ 
The  tension  is  regulated  by  a  screw  which  turns  either  from 
right  to  left,  or  fi-om  front  to  back,    (c)  The  ticedle:    The  needle 
should  l>e  the  correct  size  to  carry  the  thread  wliich  is  being  used* 


L 


d 


Be  sure  that  the  point  is  goutl,  and  that  the  nee<.ile  is  set  cor*i 
rectly. 

PREPARATION   OF  MATERIALS 

Shrinking 

Nearly  all  cottons  and  linens  should  be  shrunken  before  being 
made  ui>.    Probably  the  most  satisfactory  way  is  to  place  the 

folded  piece  of  material  in  a  tub 
of  lukewarm  water  and  to  allow  it 
to  remain  in  the  water  for  about 
one  hour.  The  material  must  Iks 
thoroughly  wet,  even  to  the  inner- 
most fold.  The  material  should 
then  be  removed  from  the  water, 
but  not  wrung,  l>ecausc  wrinkles 
will  appear  which  will  be  difficult 
to  press  out.  The  greater  the  care 
taken  in  hanging  the  material  ta 
ing  threads  the  matcriui  is  dry^  the  easier  it  IS  to  press  later, 
fdZroMht St";  The  material  should  be  hung  with 
the  material,  which  is  then  the  selvage  as  straight  as  possible- 
pf*«ed  with  a  hot  irrjD.  It  It  should  be  ironed  just  l>efore  it 
thi«  *^!Jo^»r^rd  7i^os,  becomes  dr>%  great  care  being  taken 
If  the  mat^-rial  i»  to  fit  over  to  iron  it  With  the  warp  and  filling 
»  curved  surface  surh  as  tho  threads,  Of  With  strokes  both  par- 
bip  or  the  Ahoulder,  acuijhioti       i»  i  i  i  i      .      •    i 

should  bo  used  id  pressing,       allel   to  the  selvage  and  at  right 
angle.s  to  it.     It  is  most  important 
to  keep  the  warp  and  filling  Btraight,  to  prevent  difficulty  itt 
placing  a  pattern  on  the  grain  of  the  material. 


I 


Fio.  6!.— Method  of  Bhrinkinic 
f  ut  liiesa  ou  t  of  a  Kami  en  t .  By 
means  of  two  or  thref?  gather- 


I 


I 


Spcnging. 

All  woolen  fabrirs  should  be  sponged  to  prevent  shrinking 
and  water  spotting.  This  is  often  done  cither  in  the  store,  at  a 
small  cost  a  yard,  or  at  the  factory*  In  case  it  is  necessary  to 
do  the  sponging  at  home,  a  large  table  covered  with  a  soft  ■ 
padding,  over  which  is  placed  unbleached  muslin^  is  better ^ 
than  an  ironing-lward,  as  more  surface  may  be  covered  at  one 
tmie.    The  covering  must  be  held  firmly  in  place  to  prevent 


J 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


337 


wrinkles  from  marring  the  surface  of  the  material.  The  material 
is  placed  face  down  on  the  pressing  table,  a  wet  cloth  is  laid  over 
it,  and  a  fairly  hot  iron  is  used.  After  enough  pressing  hjxs  been 
done  to  make  the  material  nearly  dry,  the  cloth  is  removed  and 
a  final  pressing  given  directly  on  the  wrong  side  of  tJic  material. 
In  double-width  material  tlie  same  plan  may  l)e  followed  if  the 
face  of  the  cloth  is  folded  in.  The  steam  from  the  wet  cloth 
is  generally  sufficient  to  wet  all  the  material  unless  it  is  very 
heavy.  Both  sides  of  the  double-width  material  should  have  a 
final  pressing.  Only  a  small  fKjrtion  of  the  material  should  l>e 
sponged  and  pressed  at  a  time.  If  tlicre  Ls  a  nap,  care  nmst  be 
taken  to  press  the  material  with  the  nap.  The  motion  of  the 
imn  is  not  a  long  sweep,  but  rather  a  slow  motion  of  lifting  and 
placing  the  iron. 

Occasionally  material  may  be  sponged  on  the  wrong  siile  with 
a  damp  cloth,  then  hung  over  a  door  to  dry.  This  is  a  more 
simple  process  but  often  destroys  the  finish  of  the  material, 
giving  it  a  slightly  cr^py  appearance. 

Pressing, 

Pressing  may  be  done  in  much  the  same  way  as  sponging, 
care  being  taken  to  lift  antl  place  the  iron  ralher  than  to  drag 
it  along.  The  iron  will  often  leave  a  shiny  mark  if*  placed  di- 
rectly oo  the  material;  therefore,  if  it  is  necessary  to  press  a 
garment  on  the  right  sside  when  it  is  being  made,  a  cloth  should 
always  be  placed  between  the  garment  and  the  iron* 

A  sample  of  the  material  shoukl  always  be  tested  for  the 
changing  of  color,  when  it  is  to  be  j^ressed. 

A  hot  iron  should  never  be  used  on  silk,  liecause  it  takes  the 
life  out  of  the  silk;  a  warm  iron  is  l^etter.  It  is  often  a  good  prac- 
tice in  pressing  seams  of  silk  garments,  to  invert  the  iron  and 
draw  the  seams  over  the  iron.  Velvets  are  very  difiicult  to  press 
and  are  more  satisfactory  if  steamed  (page  402) . 

When  it  is  necessaiy  to  shrink  out  fullness  at  the  top  of  a 
sleeve  or  around  the  waist,  an  oval  cushion  is  essential  (Fig,  61). 
A  gathering  thread  mnst  be  run  in  the  full  part  of  the  gar- 
ment to  hold  the  fullness  in  place.    The  cloth  must  then  be 


I 


d 


338 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


dampened,  pressed,  and  dampened  again  until  the  fullness 

disappeared. 

HOW   TO   TAKE   MEASUREMENTS    (PIG.    62) 

Before  usin^  a  conirjiernial  paMern  it  is  best  to  test  it  to  s< 
whether  it  18  approxiniutely  the  correet  siae.     The  following 


Flo.  02, — Method  of  tnking  in(^aflut>?mentai. 

measurements  should  be  taken  and  the  pattern  tested  by  jteveral 
of  them.  It  is  not  necessary  to  test  the  pattern  by  all  these 
measurements,  however,  unless  the  fij^ure  is  quite  abnormal. 
The  commereial  patterns  are  very  well  proportioned;  tfierefore, 
if  the  pattern  is  correct  in  the  length  of  the  waist  and  tlie  bust 
measure,  it  will  generally  prove  satisfactory.     In  the  skirt  the 


d 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING  339. 

test  measurementa  u^^  are  the  waist,  the  lii|>line  6  inches  below 
the  waist,  and  the  length  of  the  skirt  in  fmnt. 

Waist  measurements: 

Place  a  tapeline  around  the  waist,  and  pin  it  securely.  Adjust  thr  inpe^ 
lifie  until  it  in  an  m^arly  pamllel  to  the  floor  as  possible,  and  at  the  norinal 
waiHt-hne. 

Bust  measuremetit:  Place  the  tapeJine  around  the  fi^ire  over  tho  fulle.st 
|mrt  af  the  bust.  An  easy  measurement  is  taken  ft>r  a  shirt-waisl;  and  i\ 
eloBe  measurement  for  a  tiiilit-riltini^  waist.  Keep  the  tapellne  rather  high 
under  the  armi<  and  straight  aeross  the  back. 

Width  of  I  jack;  Me^-isure  the  width  of  the  back  from  armholc  to  armholi?. 
Divide  the  npaee  between  the  liasc-  of  the  neek  and  tho  waist  into  fourths. 
Measure  the  width  uf  the  back  at  approximately  the  first  quarter  diviston 
bduw  the  base  of  the  neek. 

Width  of  front:  Measure  the  width  of  the  front  Hi  to  2  inches  below 
the  hoUuw  at  the  l)asc  of  the  nock  across  the  widest  part  of  the  cheat  from 
arrnhole  to  artrdiole.  U 

W'aist:  Take  the  measurement  around  the  waist,  keeping  the  tapelinel 
as  nearly  parallel  to  the  floor  as  iK>9sibie» 

Length  of  back:  From  the  Lxme  at  the  base  of  the  neck  in  the  back 
straiglil  d^jwn  to  the  lower  etlge  of  the  ttifwline  around  the  waist. 

Lenp^th  of  front:  p>om  the  center  of  the  hollow  al  the  Uhm)  of  the  neek 
straight  down  to  the  base  of  the  tapeline  placed  around  the  waiat.  This 
is  a  rather  loose  measure. 

Depth  of  dart:  This  measure  is  not  often  im^il  except  when  tt'sting  or 
drafting  a  tight-fittinj^  lining.  It  is  taken  from  the  bjise  of  the  neck  at  the 
center  front  in  a  slanting  line  down  to  the  point  of  the  l>ust.  It  averages 
from  8  to  9  inches. 

Length  of  under-arni:  Take  this  measure  carefully.  For  the  shirt-waitt 
one-half  the  length  of  the  back  may  lie  ust^fl;  but  when  a  more  careful 
measurement  i«  necessary,  the  tapeline  is  folded  ovvr  a  pencil  and  the  pencil 
slipped  in  under  the  arm  and  the  measurement  then  taken  to  the  Itottom 
of  a  tapeline  which  is  aroimd  the  waist.  The  shoulder  muat  be  in  a  normal 
poeition  with  the  arm  lowered. 

Neck  or  cfdlar  mcasuremenln: 

Base  of  neck:  This  is  a  close  measurement  taken  around  the  base  of  the 
neck.  It  is  better  to  have  this  ineasuretnent  taken  too  small  than  too 
large,  because  in  the  fitting  of  the  waist  the  neck-line  aia  easily  be  made 
hirger. 

Top  of  neck:  This  is  a  close  meaaurenieDt  around  the  top  of  the  neck 
}U^\  under  the  chin. 

Heij^ht  at  back:  From  the  l>ase  of  the  neck  to  the  height  required. 

Height  at  front:  Fronj  the  ba,se  of  the  neck  in  front  to  the  height  re- 
quired. 


I 
I 


I 


d 


340  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

Height  at  side:  Take  this  measurement  just  back  of  the  ear  from  the 
base  of  the  neck  to  the  height  requirtnl. 

Armhole  measurement:  Take  the  measurement  of  the  armhole  where 
the  arm  joins  the  body.  The  curve  of  the  line  ia  rather  deep  at  the  lower 
fronti  and  is  a  practiciitly  straight  line  in  the  back. 

Slemm  measurements: 

Lenfi;th  inside:  Take  thia  meaatirement  alonj;  the  inside  of  the  arm 
from  the  litUo  mu^t^le  where  the  arm  joins  the  body  to  the  bone  in  the 
wrist. 

Li-n^th  outside:  From  the  point  where  the  width  of  the  back  mcttsurc 
ended,  over  the  outside  of  the  arm  lo  the  elbow.  Then  bend  the  elbow 
and  take  the  measure*  down  to  the  bjne  in  the  wrif*t. 

Size  at  elbow:  Place  the  tape-meajsurc  around  the  ellww;  l>end  the  elbow, 
and  take  the  measurement  ratJjer  clowly  over  the  |X)int  of  the  ellmw. 

Wrist  1*1  ze:  Close  the  hand  ha  though  it  were  to  slip  through  a  a  mall  hole 
with  the  thumb  held  in  the  palm.  Take  the  measure  then,  very  cloaely 
over  the  knuckles  and  thumb. 

Skirt  jneasurancfUs: 

Waiat:  Take  this  measurement  in  the  same  way  as  for  the  waist. 

Hip:  The  firwt  hip  measurement  is  generally  taken  6  inches  below  the 
waist-line.  The*  stH-ond  hip  measurement  is  generally  taken  about  10 
inches  below  the  waiHt-line,  or  ovc*r  the  fullest  psirt  of  the  thigh.  Thc^se 
two  mejisurements  are  panilh*!  to  each  other  and  pamllel  to  the  floor. 
There  in  gc'nerally  a  difTerenee  of  4  lo  0  inches  between  them. 

Length  of  front :  From  the  wtiist-line  to  the  floor,  exactly  at  the  center 
front. 

Length  of  side:  From  the  waist-line  to  the  floor,  directly  over  the  fullest 
I»art  of  the  hip.    The  tapeline  should  fall  at  right  angles  to  the  waist^hnix 

Length  of  back:  From  the  waist-line  to  the  floor,  exactly  at  the  cent«f 
back. 

KINB6  OF  PATTERNS 

Patterns  may  he  made  in  two  ways:  by  drafting  and  by 
niodeling.  Drafting  is  impracticable  for  the  average  housewife 
but  invaluable  for  the  professional  worker,  in  that  it  develops 
a  fine  feeling  for  line.  Modeling  is  the  ide^l  way  in  which  to 
obtain  a  pattern,  since  the  lines  can  be  adapted  to  each  figure; 
but  ability  to  make  patterns  in  this  way  comes  only  with  long 
experience  in  working  with  patterns  and  materials.  The  most 
practical  pattern  for  the  average  worker  is  the  commercial 
one.  These  patterns  are  beir»g  jxTfected  frorn  ye^ir  to  yean 
It  id  now  possible  to  obtain  a  pattern  of  almost  any  size  to  fit 


^ 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


341 


the  normal  figure.    Generally  only  slight  alterations  are  neces- 
sary. 

How  to  buy  a  commercial  pattern. 

Only  patteras  of  standard  makes  which  contain  very  explicit 
guide  charts  should  be  purchased.  A  waist  pattern  for  a  normal 
figure  should  he  bought  by  the  bust  size.  If  the  biist  should 
be  abnormally  full,  it  is  still  necessar>^  to  buy  the  pattern  by 
the  bust  size  and  then  make  the  required  adjustments.  A  skirt 
pattern  should  be  purchased  by  the  hip  size,  unless  the  waist 
is  large  in  proportion  to  the  hips,  in  which  ease  it  shodd  be 
bought  by  the  waist  size. 

Before  opening  a  pattern,  the  directions  on  the  outside  of  the 
envelope  should  be  read  ver>'  carefully,  seam  allowances  being 
noted  and  also  the  marks  that  are  used  to  indicate  the  correct 
placing  of  the  pattern.  On  opening  the  envelope^  the  pieces  of 
the  pattern  should  Ix^  looke<l  over  and  compared  wdth  the 
guide  chart.  The  pieces  of  the  pattern  to  be  used  are  then 
selected,  any  others  returned  to  the  envelope. 

How  to  test  a  commercial  paUern. 

Using  the  individual  measurements,  the  pattern  may  be  tested 
for  the  size  before  placing  it  on  the  material.  If  it  is  necessary  to 
make  many  changes,  it  is  best  to  alter  the  pattern,  cut  it  in  cam- 
bric or  unbleached  muslin,  and  then  try  it  on  to  see  that  all 
the  lines  are  right  before  cutting  it  in  the  material  for  the 
garment. 

To  test  the  pattern,  the  back  and  front  should  be  pinned 
together  along  the  Hue  of  the  shoulder  seams. 

Using  the  individual  mea>suremeiits,  the  neck-line  is  then 
tested.  If  it  is  large,  it  may  be  adjusted  by  raising  the  neck- 
line slightly. 

With  the  shoulder  seam  still  pinned,  the  armhole  is  tested 
and  made  approximately  the  correct  size  by  raising  or  lowering 
the  wai;  t  under  ihe  arm  and  tapering  the  line  to  the  normal  arm- 
hole.  If  this  does  not  correct  the  fault,  the  under-arm  seam  may 
be  matle  deej^er. 


I 


I 


342 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


i 


Simple  adjusifmnts  in  comjnercial  paUerns, 

The  accompanying  illustrations  (Figs.  63-80)  will  make  clear 
the  ordinar}^  adjustrneDts  necessiiry  in  commereial  patterns* 
For  the  aboomial  figure,  tJie  gannent  must  be  modeled  on  the 
figure  after  it  is  basted, 

HOW   TO   ESTIMATE  THE   AMOUNT   OF  MATERIAL 

No  definite  rules  can  \ye  given  for  estimating  the  necessary 
amount  of  material  for  a  garment  l>ecause  of  the  many  influenc- 


L 


Fio.  63. — Method  of  lengthening  »hirt*wai8t  pattern.  The  fmnt  and  hiM*k  of 
the  waist  pattern  an*  generally  cut  aLK>ut  2  inrheu  aliave  the  waiitt'line  for 
lengthening.  For  a  figure  that  is  very  long  from  the  ahoulcjer  to  the  lower 
eurve  of  the  armhole,  the  pattern  may  bi*  lengthened  hy  cutting  it  from 
the  amihole  to  the  center  front.  The  shirt-wai^t^  slewvo  may  bo  leiucth* 
cned  in  two  plaees  if  neeessary,  depending  on  whether  the  arm  b  lonft 
from  the  shoulder  to  the  ellx>w  or  from  the  ellww  to  the  wrist.  The  flleevc 
pattern  is  generally  cut  about  2  inches  above  or  below  the  elbow  line. 

ing  factors,  such  as  fashion,  finish,  width,  and  design  of  the  ma- 
terial. 

Pieces  left  from  the  cutting  of  the  skirt  and  waist  may  gener- 
ally be  used  for  cutting  the  cullarSp  cuffs,  or  any  small  decora- 
tions. In  buying  expetisive  materiaL  it  is  always  peniussible 
to  take  the  pattern  to  the  store  and  quickly  place  it  on  the 
material  to  get  an  estimate  of  the  amount  necessary.    If  com- 


I 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


34S 


mereial  patlerns  are  used,  the  amount  of  material  necessary 
for  the  making  of  the  garment  is  generally  stated  on  the  out* 
8ide  of  the  envelope.  This  amount  i.s  often  over-generous. 
Experieiiee  soon  ieaehe-s  one  the  minimum  amount  of  material 
to  buy  for  a  garment. 

For  a  sJcirt. 

In  estimating  the  amount  of  material  necessary  for  a  skirt, 
one  must  first  decide  on  the  witlth  of  the  bottom  of  the  skiH* 


Fio*  64. — Method  of  shortciiinK  a  ahirt-WRist  pattern.  To 
flhorten  the  pattt-rn  a  fold  nmy  be  taken  lilwiit  2 
inches  abovt'  the  wuist-line.  To  shurten  the  alt»ove  a 
fold  muy  Ik?  taken  abuut  2  inclie«i  atwrivi?  or  bc^ow  the 
line  of  the  clb«jw  dependinK  nn  the  pnjportion  ^tf  tho 
arm. 

In  plain  material,  as  many  full  lengtlis  of  the  material  will  be 
required  as  the  number  of  times  the  measm-e  of  the  width  of 
the  eloth  is  containtKl  in  the  meajsure  of  the  width  of  the  bottom 
of  the  skirt.  This  is  a  very  generous  allowance,  because  often 
in  placing  gores,  e.specially  on  plain  material  with  no  up  or 
down,  they  may  l)e  fitted  in  so  that  much  le^s  material  need 
be  useil.  It  is  often  helpful  in  e.stimating  the  amount  of  ma- 
terial needefl,  to  plaee  the  pattern  on  a  table  in  the  position 
for  cutting  material  of  a  definite  width. 

For  a  waist. 

In  general,  once  the  length  of  the  front,  measured  from  the 
point  of  the  shoulder  nearest  the  base  of  the  neck,  to  the  w^aist- 
lino,  and  once  the  length  of  the  back  from  the  same  point  on 


344 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKfNG 


^cloH 


the  shoulder  to  the  waist-line,  plus  once  or  twice  the  outsidi 
length  of  the  sleeve,  will  give  an  idea  of  the  amount  of  material 

required. 


HOW^    TO    PLACE   THE   PATTERN    ON   THE   MATEHIAL 

After  the  pattern  has  been  altered  and  tested,  or  after  it 
been  cut  in  inexpensive  material  and  modeled  to  the  figure,! 


Fm.  6.5. — Motlifid  of  <*uttijiipr  and  orH^nifiir  !t  «h»rl-wuls<  »»>»- 
tern  to  Ihruw  in  fuUtn^ss.  TliLs  nit'lliutt  t»f  pu 
tncjn'  futlnfitf«  into  »  uhirt-waUt  pattern  nlso  incr* 
the  IcufTth  id  the  shoulder.  The  Unt*  of  opetuuK 
should  i*xtL*i»i  thniUKh  abtiut  the  center  of  the  shoulder. 
It  18  often  fitHH*«8ary  to  inrrea^ie  the  ai»e  of  the  iirm- 
hole  to  make  it  eorreapondingty  larffrr.  The  stecw! 
miiy  be  opened  along  the  ci'Uter. 

it  is  ready  to  be  placed  for  cutting  on  the  material.    A  H 
general  rules  are  here  given  but  there  are  many  execptions  to| 
them. 

1,  Observe  on  tlie  outside  of  the  pattern  envelope  or  on  the  giiidr  « fi^rt  \ 
coutttiriod  in  the  envdo|>e,  the  allowuric*e  for  seams.     In  the  ea«e  of  (bit I 
mmldwi  pattern  allow  for  seamSt  since  the  pattern  has  lxH?n  cut  nimrt  I 
exantly  on  the  line  of  halting.    In  rase  the  neatn  allowances  have  not  l)«*o  I 
made,  allow  at  least  3/S  inch  on  material  which  does  not  fray,  and  man;] 
on  njatcrial  that  frays  badly.     If  the  pattern  hii.s  not  Ihhl'h  uschI  Iw^forr^  j 
it  is  a  wise  precaution  to  make  an  allovvane«*  of  at  least  1  incii  on  all  fitting  j 
aeani8,  fiuch  as  the  shoulder  seam  and  the  undef-arm  seam  uf  the  waist. 
and  the  seams  of  the  skirt  which  ^'11  over  the  fidkvt  part  of  the  Ixxly,    In 
making  the  extra  allowance  on  the  skirt  8eams,  Ix'^in  at  the  waisst-linD  anil  j 
taper  down  to  the  nrigtnal  allowance  at  a  point  from  12  to  H  inches  bdow 
the  hip-line. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CWTHING 


345 


I 


2.  Spread  the  material  oyt  as  much  as  possible,  and  place  the  entire 
pattern  on  itj  in  orrU'r  to  determine  the  most  economical  way  of  cutting. 
This  is  always  advisable  for  economy  in  cutting,  and  if  it  is  Beoeasary  to 
piece  the  garment,  the  piecing  may  be  planned  to  come  in  the  least  con- 
spicuous place. 

3.  If  the  material  is  eiisily  cut  and  does  not  slip  when  several  thicknesses 
are  cut  at  one  time,  it  may  be  foldtnl  end  to  end  and  most  of  the  pieces 
may  be  cut  double.    Care  roust 

always  lie  taken  not  to  cut  two 
pieces  for  tlie  same  side.  This 
difficulty  may  be  obviated  by 
placing  the  two  right  sides  or 
the  two  wrong  sidci^  of  the  ma- 
terial tot^ether  when  entting  it. 
Then,  when  the  two  pieces  of 
material  are  taken  aiMirf ,  one  in 
for  the  right  side  and  the  other 
for  the  left .  Folding  the  ma- 
terial together  is  not  always  the 
most  economical  scheme,  for 
often  the  part8  of  the  patlerii 
may  be  titte<l  into  irregular 
places  if  cut  singly. 

4.  Always  place  the  Inrgest 
pieces  of  the  pattern  finst  with 
the  largest  end  of  the  pattern 
toward  the  cut,  end  of  the 
goods.  ThLs  is  economical  l>e- 
cause  it  leaves  the  irregularly 
shaped  pieces  attachetl  to  the 
large  piece  of  the  goods.    Often 

the  smaller  pieces  of  the  pattern  itiay  tlien  Ije  fitted  into  these  irregular  j 
pieces,  which  would  1m»  useless  if  detached. 

5.  Obscr\^e  carefully  the  nap  or  design  of  the  material,  placing  the 
pattern  so  that  the  design  nms  in  the  same  direction,  on  all  the  pieces. 
The  nap  genemlly  runs  down,  but  velvet  and  velveteen  are  exceptions  to 
this  rule.  Different  color  efTects  are  produced  if  the  surface  of  the  material 
does  not  reflect  the  hght  in  the  same  way. 

6.  A  consi>icuous  design  in  t  he  nmterial,  such  as  a  plaid,  must  be  identical 
on  the  two  sides  of  the  garment  to  prevent  destroying  the  balance  or  in- 
tro<lucing  undesirable  lines.  Mast  iin[Kjrtant  of  all  is  keeping  the  grain  of 
the  material  identical  on  Ixith  sides  of  the  garment;  otherwise  the  flet  of 
the  garment  will  not  be  l>i-syin metric. 

7.  After  the  pattern  has  Irt'cn  placed  in  the  most  economical  manner, 
pin  it  carefully,  trying  not  to  lift  the  material  and  the  pattern  from  thij 


Fio.  (Hi. — Method  of  increasing  or  decreas- 
iiiK  thp  bust  measure  of  a  shirt-waist 
pattern  without  iacreasioK  thelon^h  of 
the  shoulder.  The  openiog  should  ex- 
tend from  the  Ixtltoni  of  ttie  wuist  ia  a 
straight  line  to  the  deepest  curve  of  the 
arrahole.  In  the  front  it  k  often  better 
to  make  two  slashes  than  to  spread  one 
slaah  too  far.  This  method  of  adjuat- 
tnent  necejssitatcii  lowering  the  armhole 
and.  if  the  second  slash  is  made,  aligbtly 
lowt^riog  the  tip  of  the  shoulder  near 
the  arm  bote. 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


table  when  pinning  thcnn,  I>o  no!  ujsi^  ioci  nmny  pins;  tbey  not  only  Ukke 
time  to  plafM*,  but  they  often  make  noticeable  holes  in  the  matcml,  e»- 
pecially  in  silks. 

8.  The  ftclual  positiim  of  thp  p^*tU'rn  on  the  Roods  depends  largely  on 
the  puttfTn.  Whf-n  xmnji:,  a  noriinicrrial  pattern,  reiid  th<'  din'rticinjt 
carefully,  and  then  loeate  the  indieatinK  murks  which  Mhovv  thf  len^Ethwsi^, 
the  crosswise,  and  the  fold  of  the  muteriaL  These  indicating  marks  shuuld 
he  followed  carefully. 

For  usinK  a  riiodeled  pattern,  or  a  paitera  without  indicating 
marks^  the  following  guides  are  offered: 


Pro.  67. — Method  of  deereaain^  the  si»<^  of  h  shirt'waiat 
pattern.  Inetcad  of  cuttiiiir  i>vnd  siircadinft  a  pftttem 
118  in  Fig.  65,  tht^  mtv  should  Ikj  decro«3i?d  by  j 
a  fold  in  the  pattern. 


1.  Lines  of  a  simple  patt«»rii  pi'nnndly  plared  on  the  j^tndght  length^ 
grain,  or  the  lengthwise  fold,  of  Ihf  mal^i'rial; 
In  a  waist: 

a.  Center  front 

b.  Center  Imck 
In  a  sleeve: 
Along  the  outer  fold  wht'n  the  jicam  edj^es  arc  brought  together*    Any  ' 

eleeve  after  tx-ing  lifi^ted  should  lie  perfectly  flat  when  folded. 
In  a  yoke  or  ctillar: 

a.  Center  front  or  center  back  of  yoke  or  collar.  The  center  back  of  a 
waist  yoke  or  collar  is  generally  cut  on  the  lengthwise  fold,  although  oft4>n 
the  lower  front  edges  are  cut  on  the  f^traight  grain,  causing  a  bijm  M>am  iti 
the  center  back. 

b.  In  a  Bkirt  yoke  there  may  bo  all  sortjs  of  eombmatinns  in  cutting, 
Probably  the  moet  «uc*cc«sful  way  im  to  cut  the  material  with  the  stmiglit 
grain  in  the  ecnUT  back  and  the  wiitur  frnn^ .  giving  a  bi:is  seiini  over  the 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


iiip.  Sagging  may  hv  disguised  by  making  the  yoke?  longer  over  the  hip, 
if  this  gives  a  hecaining  line.  The  bottom  line  of  a  skirt  yoke  iiitist  be 
cnrofiilly  conaidpred  with  rfferpuce  to  the  figure.  Avoid  allowing  the 
lower  edge  to  fall  in  a  wtrriight  lint-  uroumi  the  fullest  part  of  the  Ixidy. 
EithcT  an  irregular  yoke-line  or  the  line  joining  a  front  or  back  panel  is 
generally  more  becoming. 

In  a  cuff: 

The  direction  of  the  grain  of  the  material  in  the  cuff  depends  greatly 
on  the  deijign  of  the  waist  and  of  the  material.  For  beauty  of  design,  the 
cuff  is  gencrjill)^  cut  with 
the  lengthwise  grain  running 
with  the  depth  of  the  cuff; 
for  greater  Htrength,  how- 
ever, the  euff  is  cut  with 
the  lengthwise  grain  running 
from  fo^itening  to  fastening. 

In  a  skirt: 

a.  Center  of  front  panel. 
Generally  the  front  edge  of 
each  succeeding  gore,  in  order 
that  a  straight  edge  may  be 
sewed  to  a  bian  etlge.  Tliis 
method  will  help  to  keep  a 
skirt  from  sagging.  In  skirta 
of  two  gores  the  center  of 
e4inh  gore  m  oftcMi  plafcnl  on 
the  straight  lengthwise  fold. 

b.  If  a  rounding  or  tul)e- 
like  ettect  is  desired  in  a  skirt 
of  many  gores,  the  center  of 
each  gore  Ls  placed  on  the 
straight  lengthwuse  grain  of 
the  material . 

When  great  strength  is  desiretl,  the  lengthwise  grain  of  the  material  is 
always  usetl.  Skirt-bands,  ai:trt)ii-band8,  neck-bands,  bands  in  all  under- 
garment.Sp  and  etilTs,  iire  cut  with  their  longest  measurement  on  the  length- 
wise grain  of  the  rnateriah 

2.  Lines  of  a  simple  pattern  placed  on  the  straight  crosswise  grain  of 
the  material: 

In  a  shirt-waist: 

a.  Width  of  the  chest 

b.  Width  at  the  Vmck 

c.  Waist-line  of  the  under-ann  piece  of  a  tight-fitting  waist 
In  a  sleeve : 
Generally  around  the  fullest  part  of  the  arm. 


I 


Fio.  68, — Method  of  lengthening  a  waist  pat- 
tern for  a  very  full  bust  or  round  should- 
ers. This  method  may  Im'  us^td  on  a  ehirt* 
waist,  idsOf  with  slight  alteration  of  tho 
under-arm  scam. 


I 


348 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKIXG 


In  etifiTs: 

Etepth  of  the  ciilTp  when  the  design  of  tiie  wnist  requires  it. 

In  yokes: 

Depth  of  the  yoke,  when  the  design  of  the  waist  requires  it. 

In  skirts: 

Skirta  are  seldom  made  with  a  construction  line  falling  on  the 
grain  of  the  materitil.  For  children *8  drci5^\s  and  for  fancy  silk  dreaHcs,  a 
skirt  is  occasionally  made  on  the  crosswise  grain  of  the  nmtertal.  ChifTotw, 
georgette  crdpe,  net,  or  voile,  on  which  there  is  a  beautiful  sc^lvage  edgie, 
is  often  draped  on  the  crosswise  grain,  and  thus  the  making  of  a  hem  flniahy 
which  is  often  cumber^jome  on  very  lightrweight  materials,  is  avoided, 

HOW   TO   xMATiK    A    GARMENT   FOR   BASTING 

After  the  pattern  is  placed,  the  seam  allowance  and  other 
necessary  points  should  be  marked  by  one  of  the  suggested 

methodjs.  The  points  or 
lines  generally  marked  are: 
(1)  waist  line;  (2)  seams 
along  the  edge  of  a  modeled 
pattern,  or  along  the  iiidi* 
cated  line  on  a  coranjereial 
skirt,  or  waist  pattern;  (3) 
neck-Unc;  (4)  amihole;  (5) 
eeDt4?r  front  of  waist  and 
skirt;  (6)  center  hack  of 
wjiist  and  skirt;  (7)  waist* 
line  of  i^kirt;  (8)  iiii>-line; 
(9)  hem-line;  (10)  length- 
wise center  of  sleeve;  (11) 
points  indicating  decora- 
tions^ plaits,  tucks,  and 
gathers;  and  (12)  notcha^. 

The  notches  for  the  join- 
ing of  seatus  should  be  indi- 
cated by  a  tack  of  thre^id 
or  a  chalk  mark,  never  by 
cutting  the  noteh^  "^ince  this 
often  niins  the  final  finish  of  a  seam  and  does  not  allow  for 
an  increase  in  the  size  of  the  garment^  if  thia  h  necessary. 


I 


Flo.  CO. — Method  used  in  modeliug  gar- 
menu  over  a  flat  paitom.  A,  the 
paper  pattern  is  piniu'd  toKcthL-r  at  the 
ahcmlder  seam  und  the  lines  mtirktHl 
•howHig  the  dc^gn  to  bfi  followed;  B, 
the  rt'sutting  waist  dcsisoed  on  tlie 
originiil  pattern. 


I 


Fio.  70,*— AdjiistiriK  pnttern  to  fit  shoulders.  A,  Altera- 
tion necessary  for  very  square  shoulders.  It  is  often 
necesaary  to  fit  in  the  shoulder  i»eiim  at  the  Ijaac  of 
the  tierk-  This  seam  aliould  slope  very  gradually 
into  the  old  shoulder  seam  at  the  tip  of  the  shoulder. 
Thi^  adjusitment  often  neeoaaitates  the  lowering  of  tlie 
ncck-Iine  in  l>c>th  the  back  and  the  fnint,  B»  Altera- 
tion neeessnry  for  very  fllopinp;  shoulder.  It  \»  nec- 
essiirj'  to  take  in  the  shoulder  scara  slightly  at  the 
tip  rtf  the  shoulder  near  the  arm  hole.  Tht'  new  aearo 
should  slope  'i'ery  gradually  to  the  old  shoulder  seam 
at  the  t>a.'se  of  the  neck.  This  alteration  necessitates 
lowering  the  armholo* 


.  71. — Simple  adjustment  of  eleeve  pattern.  ^4*  Method  of  increasing  a 
Blceve  pattern  at  the  bottom.  B,  Method  of  adjusting  a  shirt-waist  sleeve 
pattern  trj  mstke  a  closofitting  sleeve  at  the  Ixittom  without  ehiinging  the 
else  at  the  top.  A  dart  may  lie  folded  in  the  under  aide  of  the  sleeve,  taking 
out  the  excess  fullness,  Thia  dart  ahould  extend  from  the  bottom  of  the 
alocve  about  to  t!ie  elUvw.  The  diirt  should  fall  nearer  to  the  outside  line  of 
the  sleeve  than  to  the  seam.  C,  Method  of  decreasing  the  fullness  in  a 
eieeve.  To  take  fallni^flM  nut  of  the  top  of  a  sjleevet  fold  a  plait  at  the  top 
along  the  eenter  line,  and  let  this  plait  decrease  to  nothing  as  it  approaches 
the  Kw^ittoni  of  the  3le<.';\'e. " 


L 


350 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


4 


The  tracing  wheel  marks  two  thicknesses  of  material  at  once 
and  is,  therefore,  a  great  convenience.  It  cannot  be  used  on  all 
kinds  of  material,  however,  for  on  very  thick  material  the  per- 


Fio.  72. — Mothod  of  cutting  coUarfl  for  flat  or  rolling  ef- 
fect. The  more  nearly  the  neck-line  of  a  oollaf  ap- 
proaches a  circle,  the  flatter  tht^  rnllar  tvtll  lie.  The 
ctirvc  for  a  collar  Bhould  always  Ijc  atmightencd 
slightly  to  fit  the  back  of  the  ucck. 

forations  do  not  show,  and  on  very  soft  material  the  markings 
destroy  the  surface  finish  or  threads. 

Tailor's  chalk  may  l>e  bought  at  the  notion  counter  of  any- 
dry  goods  store.  The  chalk  nmrks  only  one  surface  at  a  time, 
and  the  marks  may  l>ecome  obliterated  before  tiihe  to  use  thein. 
On  some  materials  they  are  very'  difficult  to  erase. 

Tailor's  basting  is  a  very  satisfactory  way  of  marking  mata- 
rials.  It  rei|uire5  more  time  than  the  other  methods,  but  is 
more  lasting  and  may  be  done  through  two  thicknesses. 


I 


Flo.  73. — Changing  length  or  width  of  skirt  pattern.  A,  Method  of  iengthemng. 
The  pat  torn  may  l)e  mil  at  a  point  ah*  nit  opposite  the  kn<M^  and  spread 
as  desitxi'd.  B,  Method  of  ehort^ning.  The  tuck  may  t>e  taken  in  a  pattern 
about  opposite  the  knet!.  If  the  i>attvrn  ia  flimply  folded  up  at  the  bottom 
to  ahortcD  it,  a  great  deal  of  fuUnetts  la  removed.  C»  Method  of  inereamtig 
the  width  of  a  skirt  pattern. 


I 


Flo,  74. — Increasing  waist  or  hip  aiae  of  u  skirt  pattern.  A.  Method  of  m- 
ereaaing  the  ai«e  of  the  waiat  njid  the  hipa  of  a  gored  akirt  pattern,  B, 
Method  of  tncreasing  the  aize  of  the  waist  without  inereasing  the  site  of 
the  hips.  C,  Method  of  increasing  the  mjee  of  the  hips  without  increawB 
the  waiat  sixe. 


352 


.1   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


long  double  thread  is  taken  to  make  this  tacking.  Along  the  line 
wliich  is  to  be  marked^  even  basting  stitche»*!  should  be  taken, 
leaving  a  gcneroiLs  loop  of  thread  betwt^^ti  each  8titch.  The 
pattern  should  l)C  folded  back  when  one  h  marking  lines  in- 
dicated by  perfomtinns  in  the  pattern.  The  twr>  niges  of  the 
material  should  l)e  separated  and  the  threads  cut  halfway  be- 
tween the  e<Iges.  Tliis  le^ives 
a  marking  line  of  stitches  and 
ends  along  l>oth  edges  of  the 
material. 

Tailor*s  tacks  are  made  in 
much  the  same  way  as  tailor's 
basting.  At  a  point  where  a 
mark  is  desired,  a  sfitch  al)OUt 
14  iiich  long  is  taken  leaving 
an  end  of  thread.  Over  this 
stitch  another  stitch  should  be 
taken  leaving  a  loop  uf  thread. 
The  thread  k  then  cut  from 
the  material  leaving  another 
end*  The  two  pieces  of  ma- 
terial are  separated,  and  the 
joining  threads  cut,  leaving  a 
mark  on  each  piece* 


Flo,  75. — McthcnJ  of  dorrf^iftinn  tht» 
iiiic  of  thf  hip*'^  of  a  gx^rcHJ  skirt 
pattern  without  decreasing  the  ai«e 
of  the  wiuBt. 


IIOW^  TO   CUT  A   GARMENT 

In  using  a  standard  com- 
mercial pattern  on  which  the 
seam  allowance  i«  made,  the 
material  should  be  cut  close  to 
the  edge  of  the  pattern.  In  using  a  modeled  pattern,  the  mater- 
ial may  be  cut  at  the  correct  distance  from  the  seam  markings^ 
a  tapehne  or  cardboard  measure  being  used  to  indicate  the 
distance  until  the  eye  becomes  trained.  If  tailor  tacking  has 
been  used,  the  two  pieces  of  the  pattern  should  be  pulled  apart, 
and  the  threads  cut,  care  being  taken  not  to  shake  the  parts  of 
the  ganiient  and  thus  lose  the  marking  threads.    As  soon  as  the 


I 


J 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


various  parts  are  cut,  they 
are  folded  carefully  to  prevent 
stretching  the  very  bias  edges. 
When  working  on  material  that 
stretches  badly^  it  is  often  a 
good  plan  to  Ijaste  a  piece  of 
selvage  or  tai>e  along  the  more 
bias  edges,  until  that  part  is 
pemianently  sewed.  This  is 
true  of  the  neck-line  and  arm- 
hole  of  the  waist,  and  also  of 
the  center  1  jack  and  the  waist- 
Une  of  the  skirt. 

HOW    TO    BASTE    A     SIMPLE 
GARMENT 

Too  much  basting  is  ahnost 
worse  than  too  little.  It  not 
only  pulls  the  material  and 
makes  it  unyielding,  but  it  is 
very  time-consunung.  If  pins 
are  skillfully  placed,  much  of 
the  tiresome  l)asting  may  be 
omitted. 

Holding  the  material  with 
seam-marking  on  seam-mark- 
ing, the  pins  should  be  placed 
at  right  angles  to  the  line  to  be 
made  by  the  stitching.  If  pins 
are  so  placed,  the  baiting  tlwead 
will  not  tangle  around  them, 
and  they  are  easily  removed  if  the  seam  is  to  be  stitched 
on  the  machine  without  being  basted* 


Fig.  7tl.— Method  of  iulj noting  a  skirt 
pntt^^ni  fur  n  prnjon  wha  has  a 
pmniinent  ijlxlomen  or  hips.  For 
the  fornitT,  the  adiusttiient  is  made 
on  the  gores  towurd  the  fro  ill;  for 
the  latter,  on  the  gores  toward  the 
bark,  A  email  tuek  of  not  mom 
than  [4  itioh  h  taken  at  the  back 
of  the  gf>rG  a  few  inehf^t?  below  the 
hip-line  and  allowc?d  to  nm  to 
nothiuK  at  the  front  of  the  gore. 
It  IS  neeeaaary  to  straighten  the 
haek  edge  of  the  gore  after  mak* 
ing  this  adjustment.  As  thia  is 
some  what  difficult,  it  is  better  if 
modo  OQ  the  fiifurt?, 


General  rules  for  badijig, 

1.  In  })asting  garments  of  any  sijre,  k*H*p  thr  work  on  a  table  or  a  lap- 
board  luj  rniieh  as  possible ,    For  very  long  aeimis,  sueh  as  are  in  a  skirt,  the 


A 


354 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


baated  edgei  will  Ik*  much  flriiter  if  they  ore  pimped  perfectly  flat  oq  i 
table  and  kept  so  while  \mng  l>asted. 

2.  Wheti  basting  two  ecl|^  together,  the  worker  should  always  keep 
the  more  huts  edge  towards  her, 

3.  When  bji^ting  a  Kathertxl  r>art  to  a  straight  edge,  the  worker  should 
aiwajrs  hold  the  gathered  part  towards  her.  If  an  C8p)ecialiy  good  Une  oii 
the  straight  edge  is  deair<^,  the  work  may  he  held  with  the  straight  pieoa 
toward  one,  as  is  often  done  when  basting  in  a  aleeve. 

4.  In  baating  bias  edges,  such  as  the  edge  of  a  gore,  start  the  basting 
opposite  the  widest  end  of  the  gore,  if  possible.  In  this  way,  the  hand  will 
not  ravel  or  push  off  the  warp  threiids. 

To  bmtc  a  shirt-waist  or  other  simple  waist, 

I*  Baste  and  stitch  all  flat  decora tiona,  such  as  tucks^  pUiU,  and  set-in 

Iftoe,  before  basting  the  m»ams. 
%  Pin  the  scarns  before  basting  them^  bringing  together  the  correspond- 
ing points,  such  aa  the  waist- 
lines and  armholea  of  each, 
WTiether  the  wabt  is  baited  with 
the  scanw  on  the  riglit  or  viTong 
side  depends  on  the  kind  of  fin- 
ished seam  to  \ye  iised.  In  the 
case  of  a  tight-fitting  wai^t,  the 
seams  are  basted  on  the  wrong 
side  in  order  that  the  hnea  in 
the  waist  may  be  carefully  ob- 
servHnJ  when  the  gannent  is  tried 
on. 

3.  In  basting  togetlicr  parta 
of  a  simple  waist,  begin  with  the 
nnder-arm  seam.  I'm  the  parts 
together  at  the  wai«t-Iine,  keep 
the  tracing  or  tailor  tacking  of 
the  front  and  the  back  together, 
and  pin  the  seam  to  the  armhole 
and  down  to  the  bottom  of  the 
peplum.    Baste  the  sejim  from 

the  waist-line  up  to  the  armhole  and  from  the  waist-line  down  to  the  bottom 

of  the  |x?pliim,  using  an  even  bastmg  stitch. 

If  a  yoke  is  to  be  used,  read  the  directions  under  section  4.     Baste  the 

shoulder  seams  first  and  spread  the  garment  out  perfeetly  Hal  on  the  table* 

Pin  the  yoke  into  plaec^  and  baste  it.    Then  baste  the  under-ann  seam  M 

already  directed. 

For  a  light-fitting  waist,  pin  the  side-front  seam  from  tlu?  waiat^Une  up 

toward  the  point  of  the  bust,  and  from  the  shoulder  seam  down  toward 


Fio.  77* — ^Anothcr  molhod  of  odjustiDR  a 
gored  akirt  pattern  for  a  %urc  with 
prooiineat  abdomen. 


I 


I 
I 

I 


A 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


the  same  point.  This  brings  a  slight  fullnesa  at  the  corn-ct  pliice  over  the 
fullest  part  of  the  buHt,  Divide  thi8  fullness  through  a  space  of  about 
2  inches.    Adjust  the  shoulder  seanm  hv^t  in  this  tj'pe  of  wnist. 

4,  Pin  the  shoulder  seams  together,  first  matching  the  markings  of  the 
neck-line  and  then  the  armhole.  Buste  the  seams,  holding  the  back  of  the 
waist  toward  yoU.    It  is  often  nece.sytiiry  to  stretch  the  front  slightly  to  fit 


Fio.  78* — Method  of  adding  matr^rii*!  in  n  K*»rrd  skirt 
pattern  Ui  form  a  tuck  at  tho  senni. 

the  back.    This  is  desirable,  since  the  waist  will  then  naturally  spring  down 
to  fit  the  curve  of  the  shoulder. 

To  baste  sleeves. 

For  a  shirt-waist  sleeve,  make  the  placket  and  apply  it  before  bjisting 
the  sleeve.  The  placket  is  generally  |ilaced  alwjut  I  ini'h  back  of  the  center 
fold,  made  by  folding  the  sleeve  along  the  seam.  After  the  placket  h:is 
been  placed  and  stitched,  tlic  seam  of  tire  sleeve  is  l:>astetl  and  stitched, 
&nd  the  cnfT  is  sewe<l  on.  In  a«i justing  the  gathers  at  the  liottom  of  the 
sleeve,  leave  the  siefn''e  without  gathers  for  a  space  nf  about  1  inch  on  each 
side  of  the  seam,    (jiither  the  sltK*ve  to  ht  the  cuff. 

For  a  simple  culT  or  a  French  cnff,  place  tlie  two  right  sidrs  of  the  cuff 


356 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


togetiie?r,  and  stitch  the  cuff  arrays  the  two  ends  aod  the  bottom.  Thuti 
miter  the  corners  to  remove  the  excpss  matt^rial.  Turn  the  cult  ri^ht  side 
out,  creoHi*  it  very  sharply  arovmd  the  edj^e,  and  basi«  it  peifectly  flat. 
kjcxosA  the  top  turn  in  %  inch  toward  the  wrong;  side  alonjt  Iw-ith  the  riRht 
and  the  wrong  side  of  the  cuff,  and  baste  down  this  alluwanee.  Fold  the 
cuff  from  end  to  end,  and  locate  the  center.  One  inch  toward  the  end  of 
the  cuff  which  ih  to  be  aewed  to  the  back  of  the  sleeve,  place  the  m*aui  of 


Flo,  79. — Designing  narrow  or  full  rimilaf  i*kirt  put  tern.  A»  ^Tt'thr1d  nf  plac 
a  six-gore  pattern  for  a  slightly  circular  skirt  with  gatherB  iit  the  waist-lm«^* 
In  cutting  a  »kirt  of  this  kind,  a  w»ani  may  l>c  plnci<<l  in  thr  center  front* 
rscnter  back,  or  over  the  hips,  119  desiniMl.  il,  Alrihod  of  ptitcirtg  tt  stTC-gon* 
pattern  to  makf*  u  rirrular  skirt,  full  at  the  Imttoni  and  fitting  »tno<_»lhly 
fit  the  waist-line  and  hips.  The  gore«  may  he  spread  apart  and  uneiroii 
aniottnts  of  fullness  tlius  tlirown  iti.  * 

the  Hli*eve.  Insert  the  pjathered  sleeve  between  the  upper  edges  of  the  cuff, 
pinning  the  indicateti  iwintfi  together.  Pin  the  gnthers  toward  the  front 
and  the  bark  of  the  euff^  adjusting  them  aa  suggested,  and  allowing  ti>e 
placket  of  the  sleeve  to  remain  perf€H*tly  smooth.  Baste  the  right  side  of 
the  cuff  to  the  sleeve,  Tuni  the  slei'Ve  to  the  wrong  side,  and  histe  the 
inner  side  of  the  cuff  in  i»lace  1/1  tl  inch  al>ove  the  out^nide  l>aating  in  order 
that  the  inside  will  Ik*  caught  by  the  stitching  from  the  right  iside,  8litch 
entirely  around  the  cuff  1/10  inch  from  the  edge.  Htitch  again  across  Uw 
top  3 4  inch  Ih'Iow  l!ie  fir^t  row  of  j^titehing. 

For  a  close-fitting  sleeve  finistied  with  a  facing,  boale  the  slet»vi*  and  try 
it  on  before  stitching  and  finishing  the  Uittom, 

For  a  shirt  sleeve,  one  similar  to  the  sleeve  of  a  man  '**  ahirt  witltout  gathers 


A 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


357 


at  tiie  toj>,  baste  the  sleeve  into  the  waist  before  either  the  seam  of  the 
sleeve  or  the  under-jjnn  s«*arn  *^r  I  he  waist  is  joiiK*d.  In  this  case  the 
placket  may  lie  applif^l  before  (h**  sleeve  ifl  Bet  in,  but  the  cuff  cannot  be 
placed, 

7^0  baste  in  a  shirt-waist  or  a  coat  sleeve. 

The  fallowing  scheme  of  Ificating  the  sleeve  proves  satisfactory  for 
almost  any  typc^  of  wloeve.  This  is  of  courw  only  a  general  rule,  since  ali 
sleeves  most  finally  be  adjusted. to  the  i>eraon  if  they  ivre  to  be  truly  artistic. 


Flo.  80* — Method  of  cuttins  a  pattern  for  &  circular  flounce.  Fit  together  the 
gores  of  a  six-gort?  skirt  on  top  of  a  patx*r;  trace  around  the  lower  edge  of 
lh«  nkirt,  thf  et'iitcr  inmt,  the  center  hack,  and  acmss  the  wkirt  where  the 
ilouDcn  is  to  l>c  attsichcd;  ri'inove  the  pattern  and  cut  aloog  the  tn&ciQg; 
from  tlic  l>ott*>tn  slabh  the  flouucc  to  withia  yj  inch  f}f  the  top  of  the  floiinci% 
and  spread  it  apart  as  dcHinnJ.  This  flounce  ia  very  circular  unless  it  ia 
dividffi  into  sectioncSp  arvd  if  this  is  done*  they  should  be  so  placed  that  a 
straight  edge  fails  on  a  hitis  edge  as  in  a  skirt. 

1.  Measure  1  inch  hock  of  the  shoulder  seani  at  the  armhole.  Using 
this  Its  the  dividing  [Xiint,  fuld  the  arm  hole  in  half.  The  piiint  opposite 
tljjM  first  |K)int  is  thi'  ixjint  at  which  to  place  the  seam  of  the  sleeve. 

2,  Pin  the  se^m  of  the  sleeve  in  place. 

3,  Bring  the  shoulder  seam  of  the  waist  down  tu  the  under-arm  seam 
of  the  waist,  ami  foJd  the  armhole  flat.  The  two  j>oiiit*!  thus  locate<l  on 
the  sides  of  the  armhoie  are  the  jxjints  between  wliich  the  gathers  of  the 
sleeve  sliould  be  atljusted. 

4.  Pin  the  sleeve  in  |>liie(%  working  from  the  sc*am  towards  each  of  the 
pointH  located.  Then  pin  the  remainder  of  t!ie  sleeve,  holding  the  fnllneHS 
eaiuly  between  thesc^  two  jw^inls.     If  there  is  too  much  fullness  to  pin  in 


358  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

pkoe,  gather  it  with  onv  thrc^ad  on  the  Iriicing,  lUid  u  aet'ond  *hrc«tJ  slighUy 
bHoWi  or  toward  the  ruff  of  the  sleeve. 

5.  Adjust  ttie  gathers  to  fit  the  armholPj  nmkiiiK  the  center  of  the  sleeve 
fall  in  a  pi'rfeetly  straight  line  frniu  the  highest  point  of  the  shouldex. 
If  the  gathers  arc  allowed  to  fall  forward  tath*T  than  backward^  a  dight  cup 
is  formed  in  the  front  of  the  sleeve  to  tit  over  the  point  of  the  shoulder. 

6.  Pin  and  baste  the  entire  sleeve  ia  place. 

To  baste  a  collar  or  other  deccratuma. 

Baste  all  parts  *if  the  wtust  as  far  iis  possible,  in  order  that  !he>'  may  be 
reuUy  tn  iry  on  after  tliis  fir»t  basting^  and  tbu8  avoid  re|>ei&ted  fitting;}. 

To  bask  a  skirL 

Pin  the  hit>-line«,  watst-liaes^  and  hem-lines  of  the  gores  together,  Place 
as  many  pins  as  necessary  betwt'en  thc*Hi*  points.  If  it  is  nt»eefisary  to  boale 
the  skirt  before  trying  it  on,  oIj«<tvo  the  general  rulet*  (page  353).  If  ttus 
skirt  is  simple,  it  may  be  turnetj  at  thin  time  on  the  line  of  the  hem,  and 
the  hem  may  be  basted  into  place.  This  will  give  a  better  feeling  when  the 
skirt  in  first  tried  on,  At  the  placket  extend  the  basting  of  the  M^m  on  each 
side,  in  order  that  a  good  line  for  the  fitting  may  be  otjser\*ed.  The  placket 
is  generally  about  12  inches  deep. 

If  a  tuck  opening  i^  desired  or  a  seam  stiteh&d  on  the  outside,  tho  gore 
edge  or  (nniter  front  of  the  skirt  is  generally  turned  toward  the  ^Tong  side 
on  the  line  of  marking,  l>asted  if  neecasary,  and  then  pressed.  The  gore 
Ut  whieh  this  edge  is  to  l*e  sewed  is  then  pliu'ed  jiorfpctly  flat  on  the  table 
antl  the  pressed  edgp  of  the  first  gore  plaeed  juiit  to  the  line  of  marking  on 
the  second  gorp.  The  waist-line,  the  hip-lines,  and  the  hem-hnes  of  the 
gores  must  be  made  to  coincide.  Pin  the  gores  carvfully  in  place^  and  baste 
them. 

In  basting  darts  in  a  skirt,  begin  at  the  point  of  the  dart  and  work 
toward  the  waist.  Care  must  Ims  taken  to  keep  l>oth  md^  of  the  dart 
smooth.  Wlien  oljserved  on  the  right  wide,  the  tlart  shuuld  form  a  line  at 
right  angles  to  the  waist-line  or  a  line  with  a  slightly  outward  curve  like 
the  curve  of  tlie  body.    Darts  should  not  lie  cut  open  until  after  the  fitting. 

KINDS  OP  &£1AMS   FOR  GAHMENTS 

Many  kinds  of  seams  are  possible  in  the  various  types  of  gar- 
rnents^  some  practical  and  some  decorative  as  well.  In  this 
short.  discus.sion  of  the  processes  in  drassmaking  it  will  be  im- 
possible to  explain  how  each  kind  of  seam  is  made.  In  order 
to  recall  the  different  t>^>as  of  seams  the  following  outUne  is 
made.    The  kind  of  seajn  to  lie  used  in  making  a  gannent  should 


I 

■ 
I 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


be  decided  before  the  garment  is  basted  together,  in  order  to 
avoid  unnecessary  basting. 

Far  ufvficrwear  ami  ftlmn  drui.Hes:  Plain  seam;  French  seam;  stitcher!  fell; 
hemmed  fell;  overhand  felL 

Far  Hngfrie  dresses  and  u^fiLitn:  French  seam;  hemmed  fell;  seam  made 
with  entre-deux;  standing  fell;  rolled  «ram. 

For  tniiored  wmi  or  tsiik  garm^rfU^:  French  seam;  stitched  fell;  welt  seam; 
do ubh>-st itched  welt;  cord  sejim;  plain  seam;  slot  seam;  strapped  seam; 
lapped  seam. 

For  h'Uk  and  fine  wool  drasHea:  Plain  seam;  plain  seam  bound;  plain  seam 
made,  edges  turned  to  wTong  side  and  sewed  tvogether  with  running  stitch; 
piquot  edge, 

HOW   TO   MAKE   A    FOUNDATION   BELT 

For  a  dress  or  a  skirt  with  a  raised  waist-line,  a  ribbeil  belting 
or  a  cambric  belting  stiffened  with  stays  of  featherbone  .should 


Fio,  81. — Method  of  maldnx  a  foundation  belt  for  a  skirt  or  a  dress.     Two 
end  finisthea  are  shown. 

be  used.  This  belting  should  be  as  wide  as  the  distance  alx>ve 
the  waist-line  at  which  the  line  of  the  skirt  is  desked  to  appear. 
If  the  belt  is  wide,  it  may  l>e  fitted  with  darts  (Fig.  81).  The 
darts  may  extend  from  one  edge  of  the  belting  to  the  other^ 
the  greater  depth,  about  I4  inch,  being  in  the  center  of  the  belt* 
ing,  if  one  wishes  the  t>elt  to  extend  slightly  l>clow  the  waist- 
line. Or  the  dart  may  be  taken  deep  at  the  top  anti  allowed  to 
taper  to  nothing  at  the  bottom,  if  the  entire  l>elt  is  to  drop  below 
the  waist-line.  These  darts  shouki  be  on  the  side  of  the  l>elt 
placed  next  to  tiie  body.  The  ends  of  the  belting  are  then 
turned  in  and  a  sntficient  numl)er  of  hooks  and  €*3^es  sewed  on  to 


360  A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


hold  the  bdt  in  good  i)osition.    The  hooks  should  Ix?  sewed 

the  riKht-liand  end  of  the  Mi  and  on  <he  vvroncr  side,  the  bill 
of  the  hook  l»f^irig  set  7tn  inch  bark  from  the  end  of  the  Inciting. 
Tlie  eyes  shoukl  extend  beyonti  the  etlge  of  the  Ix^hing  at  the 
left-hand  end  the  same  di.stiinfe  that  the  hooks  are  slipped 
back.  The  two  ends  of  the  lx*lt  will  exactly  meet  when  it  is 
hooked.  The  unfinished  ends  of  the  belting  and  the  stitehinc; 
holding  the  hooks  and  eyes  in  place  is  covered  with  a  piece  of 
tafTeta  seam-binding  (Fig,  81);  or  if  there  Is  any  excess  material 
on  each  end  it  may  be  foldetl  back  }4  inch  on  the  outside; 
then  the  folded  edge  should  Iw  brought  up  under  the  bill  of  the 
h(M>k  on  one  end  and  over  ihe  loop  of  t!ie  vyi*s  on  the  oth<'r  eml 
and  hemmed  into  place.  This  last  method  of  finishing  the  Ix^lt 
is  very  substantial  but  makes  a  much  thicker  tiniah.  The  center 
front,  the  center  back,  and  the  sides  of  the  belt  should  then  l)e 
marked  with  colored  thread  in  order  to  facilitate  adjusting  the 
^rment  on  the  figure. 

FTTTtNG    GARMENTS    (PLATBS   XII  AND   XIII) 

Two  fittings  for  a  simple  garment,  sufh  as  a  house-dn>?«, 
plain  shirt-waist,  or  a  skirt,  should  lie  sufficient,  if  tlu*  garment 
has  l>een  properly  prepared  and  the  fitting  is  carefully  done. 
Generally  it  is  not  necessary  to  fit  more  than  the  right  side  of  a 
simple  garment  unless  there  is  a  great  dilTeiTnce  lx?tween  the 
right  and  left  sides  of  the  figure.  Too  much  fitting  destroys  the 
crisp  freshness  of  new  materiaL 

To  l>e  properly  prepared  for  the  first  fitting,  a  dress  should 
have  the  scams  basted,  the  sleeves  basted  into  place,  and  the 
following  markings  or  bastings,  placed: 

On  the  »kirt:  (1)  Placket;  (2)  hcm-linc  of  the  skirt,  if  possible;  (3)  ocnUr 

front;  (4)  center  Inick;  (3)  hip-line,  6  inches  below  the  wiUet-line;  (0)  wtiist- 
line,  either  niised  or  noririal. 

On  the  lielt:  (1)  Center  front;  (2)  center  back. 

On  the  waist:  (1)  Center  front;  (2)  center  back;  (3)  neckline;  (4)  arro- 
hole  line,  if  the  slreve  is  not  Ijasted  in;  (5)  waist-lino;  (6)  two  gathering 
threaiLn  at  the  waist-line,  one  J^  inch  below  the  other. 

On  tlie  sleevp:  (I)  Finished  leng^th;  (2)  two  i^nthtTini?  thmwli*  in  the 
tiottom  of  the  alt'evc,  iinc  on  tht*  tracing  and  one  Ji  incti  below  the?  tmcing; 


t^    f 


I 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING  361 

and  gfttherinK  threads  should  also  uppf'ar  in  the  t«p  of  the  sle<?ve  betifreen 
the  indiriited  places;  (3)  line  nf  finishini^  at  the  arm-hole  of  the  lis^istj 
(4)  the  point  of  fhc  ollww  in  a  tight-fitting  sleeve. 

With  these  marks  it  should  be  very  easy  to  adjust  the  waist 
anrl  tlie  skirt  to  the  figure. 

Diredions  for  fiUing  a  shiri-waist  or  a  house'dress. 

Place  the  fitted  or  made  lielt  on  the  figure,  being  sure  that  the  center 
back  is  at  the  center  bfiek  of  the  frjcure. 

Settle  the  waist  well  to  the  figiir<;,  and  pin  it  at  the  eent'Cr  front  exactly 
on  the  imlieating:  linen. 

Turn  the  ahoidder  itnd  under-arm  seams  toward  the  front. 

Make  ii  petieml  survey  of  the  waist  lu'fnre  proecfMling  further. 

If  the  .shoulders  of  the  figure  are  ver>^  j*f|uare  or  very  slopinj^,  alterations 
will  probably  Ije  necessary  (Fig.  70).  If  tlie  t^houlders  are  very  square, 
the  waist  is  likely  to  be  lifted  too  much  at  the  point  of  the  shoulder,  causing 
wrinkles  ac^roBs  the  waist.  To  eorrect  this  def(^'t,  take  the  shoulder  seam 
diX'[irT  near  the  nt^k  (Fi^.  70),  and  cut  away  tlie  surplan  material  This 
may  make  the  neck  ton  sinall.  If  so,  cut  the  neck-line  larger  by  slashing 
it  .shj^htly  until  the  correct  sixe  is  obtained. 

If  the  shoulders  are  very  sloping,  the  waist  drops  at  the  end  of  the 
ehoidder  eausinj^  wTinkles  from  the  neck  to  the  armhole.  To  eorrect  this 
defect,  take  up  the  shoulder  seain  at  the  jKiint  of  the  shoulder  (Fig.  70), 
Then  enlarise  the  annhole  by  cutting  away  thf^  material  under  the  arm. 
Tap4T  it  Ijoth  in  the  front  and  back  to  the  normal  armhole.  The  shoulder 
seam  should  be  about  I  inch  tnick  t»f  the*  hij^hest  point  of  the  .Hhottlder.  If 
this  M'ani  Ls  tiKj  far  back,  it  will  narrow  tlu*  back  of  the  waLst;  if  ttm  far 
forward,  it  will  give  the  shoulders  a  rounditl  ap^Myi  ranee.  A  yoke-line 
ehould  drop  well  forward  frotu  the  normal  shouldcT-line.  This  adjustment 
depends  entirely  on  the  figiire  fitted. 

In  general,  the  collar-liup  sliouki  run  in  a  gn<Kl  curve  from  the  Ixine  at 
the  base  of  the  neck  in  the  back  to  abovf^  the  two  small  lw»nes  at  the  front 
of  the  neck.  Keep  the  neck-line  close  to  the  neek  and  rather  high  at  the 
side  just  under  the  ear,  unless  the  nrrk  is  very  short,  in  which  case,  the 
aide  of  the  neck-line  may  be  lowc^ffnl  slij^htly  to  give  more  length. 

If  the  nei:k-line  is  too  lar^e,  take  up  the  shouUl«.'r  seam.  The  fullness 
muBt  never  he  taken  out  in  the  center  front  by  lapping.  This  w^ould  cause 
the  grain  of  the  material  to  iilo[>e  downward  toward  the  center  front. 
In  a  ti^ht-fitting  lining  a  dart  is  siwimetimei^  taken  in  the  center  fronts  to 
make  the  neck-line  smaller  aad  to  take  out  extra  fullnes.^  over  the  chest. 
Taking  up  the  shouldiT  seams  may  nen^essitjite  loweriiiK  the  armhole. 

The  under-arm  seam  should  appciir  to  be  a  eontinuatitin  of  the  shoulder 
Beam  and  sh^iuld  hill  frf*m  the  center  under-arm  straight  down  to  the  waist- 
line.    If  it  is  (It^ircnl  to  narrow  the  appeanvnet"  of  the  back  width  at  the 


I 

I 
I 


362 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


WAis^lino,   iUv    iintU'r-:irtn    m^m    rimy    Ik*   »tiiDte<i   ultghUy    towBrd 
hack. 

Adjust  the  fuilti€Hs  around  the  waiist-Uo^  next.  Pin  the  wftkt  to  ii  stif- 
fened l>elt  if  it  is  to  t>e  a  pari  of  ti  dnm,  or  to  »  non-elaittie  tape,  if  it  i»  to 
U^  a  JHt'jmrat^  gannent.  In  either  cam  the  a^ljusting  id  nhont  the  aaini^. 
Pin  the  renter  btu-k  of  the  wuisi  to  tUe  c [it*T  Iwu'k  *}{  the  Mtin^;;  at  eithi^r 
the  normiil  waii^t-linc  or  the  miseci  wiiust-hnf,  dependinjc  on  whether  a 
skirt  in  to  Im?  made  or  not,  LfK*ate  the  under-arm  seany*,  and  pin  them  to 
the  belting.  I*in  the  center  front  of  the  waist  tcj  the  centeT  front  uf  the 
belt.  Draw  the  gathering  threads  ti^t,  and  adjust  tlic  ftiUneas.  To  okmI 
Bgures  a  shght  bloiisiog  ik  be<x>niing.  A;s  far  as  poswtile^  keep  the  liiif« 
made  by  the  gathering  at  right  angles  to  the  wai0t4ine.  Thia  gives  the 
figure  u  straight  appearance. 

If  the  waittt  in  too  tight  over  the  bust»  it  may  l»e  made  shijhtly  larger  by 
letting  out  the  under-arm  scam;  or  in  ease  the  waist  ia  toeing  fitted  in 
praetiee  material,  fuUnen  at  the  bust  may  be  allowed  as  shown  in  Figs. 
65  and  B6. 

The  armhole  Une  is  one  nf  the  rawt  imtKirtani  lines  in  the  waist.  From 
the  point  of  the  shoulder,  the  line  f^hould  drop  alrncjst  straight  to  the  front 
maM!le  of  the  arm.  The  line  then  curves  to  fit  the  underarm  as  cloeely  as  is 
comfortable  and  furins  a  nearly  ^traiglit  Une  along  the  armhole  at  the  liack. 

The  grf«.ter  amount  of  fullness  in  the  sleeve  should  fall  over  the  nhouhler 
bone  which  in  most  caaes  is  from  ?f  to  l}4  inches  in  front  of  the  slioulder 
seam,  llie  stniight  lengthii-ist^  grain  of  the  material  should  fall  stmight 
down  fnMU  the  highest  |Kiint  of  the  shoulder.  If  the  sleeve  is  too  large  or 
Um  Kmall,  it  f^hijiild  U"  changed  at  the  scam.  Observe  the  length  of  the 
sleeve^  and  try  on  the  cuff.  If  the  sleeve  puffs  slightly  at  tlie  liack  even 
when  the  ell>ow  IS  bcnt»  take  the  seam  in  the  sleeve  dieeper,  but  not  the  mmm 
of  the  walHt. 

If  a  eollur-band  is  to  W  uswl,  it  Hhould  lie  tried  on  at  this  Lime. 

A  sbirt'-waifit  should  fit  loosely  but  smoothly.  Overfitting  takra  away 
from  the  iid'ormal  graces  and  style  of  the  wai«t.  After  a  plain  )>ihirt-wuist 
has  been  sntisfnctorily  adjusted,  an  excellent  plan  is  to  rip  it  opart  and 
either  cut  a  new  pattern  or  correct  the  old  one  from  it.  If  this  is  done^ 
much  difficult  fitting  rnay  l:>e  avoided  at  another  time. 

After  the  waint  ha*«  Ixt^n  fitted  and  bt-fore  the  sleeve  has  been  n^moved, 
mark  Ixith  the  sleeve  and  the  waist  so  that  they  will  go  together  again 
without  diificulty.  Mark  on  the  U'lt  the  iNiints  at  which  the  under-ann 
seams  fall,  and  also  the  line  of  the  waist. 

RfwttjiMte  the  .nleeve.  finish  the  waist  as  nearly  as  po«sililc  at  the  bottom, 
and  again  \nifiie  it  into  the  waist.  Bjixte  the  ctillar-band  into  place,  or  if 
a  fancy  ccjllar  is  to  be  used,  baste  it  together,  and  try  it  on  at  the  next 
fitting     Pin  the  W!iij«t  again  to  the  foundation  t>elt. 

Place  tlie  waist  on  llie  figure,  and  make  any  titial  adjustments. 

Try  the  nktrt  on  at  this  time.    Phiee  it  on  the  figure  right  side  out,  and 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING  363 

adjust  it  to  the  fifcure.  Pin  the  center  front  af  the  skirt  to  the  center  front 
of  the  lichinK,  slikI  tho  renter  l>ack  of  tlie  skirt  to  the  center  back  of  the  m 
iM'ltinjt.  Tht^  nnr\H  of  ntl  tlarts  iiriti  ^on'H  may  be  more  easily  obtterv(Hl  if  I 
the  skirt  is  rijtht  side  ont,  iilthcni|Th  the  tilting  is  madt  more  difficult, 
Piii  up  the  rtkirt  exactly  on  the  indicated  hncs  of  the  placket.  Only  the 
right  t^ido  of  I  lie  skirt,  neeil  be  fitted,  IjuI  the  whole  skirt  should  be  pinned 
to  the  foundation  brlt. 

After  adjusting  I  he  skirt  to  the  foundation  V>elt,  take  a  general  survey 
of  the  skirt,  noting  the  lint^H  of  the  gores.  The  skirt  »hotdd  fit  smoorhly 
from  the  waist-line  to  the  hip-line,  and  below  the  hip  it  should  fall  in  m 
stnught  lines.  All  dart  and  seam  lines  should  tie  at  right  angles  to  the  H 
line  of  the  waist.  The  skirt  should  not  strmd  out  fnim  the  figtjre  in  one 
place  more  thaa  in  another.  If  this  should  l>e  the  ease,  turn  to  the  illuH- 
t rations  t^f  pattern  lidjustiag  (Figs.  74-77),  and  alter  the  skirt  as  there 
suggest  (h1. 

The  ln]>line  and  the  line  at  the  bottom  of  th*'  skirt  should  be  parallel 
to  each  other  and  to  the  floor.    In  the  crise  of  a  figure  with  prominent  hips, 
the  skirt  may  stand  out  at  the  sid(\H.     This  may  often  be  remedied  by    m 
dropping  the  skirt  slightly  from  the  waist-hne  over  the  hip.  H 

Simple  fitting  may  l)e  done  by  increasing  or  decreasing  the  depth  of  the   " 
seams;  however,  care  must  l»e  taken  to  keep  all  lines  of  folds,  plaeketj  sc»ams, 
or  darts  at  right  angles  to  the  waist-line.  ■ 

After  tlie  skirt  has  btnai  fittetl  siitisfaetorily,  always  straighten  both  the  H 
hip-line  and  the  finishing  line  at  the  bottom  of  the  skirt. 

Observe  the  waist-line  very  carefully  to  see  that  the  waist  blouBCS  suffi- 
ciently for  the  arms  to  be  raised  easily,  and  also  that  the  line  made  by    m 
the  joining  of  the  waist  and  the  skirt  is  iH'eoming.    The  waist-line  should   H 
either  be  parallel  to  the  floor  or  dip  slightly  in  front. 

Remove  the  gannent  from  the  figure,  and  mark  all  alterations  and  lines 
neceasary  for  the  second  adjustment  of  the  garment.  Finish  the  waist 
€3E0Gpt  perhaps  the  final  adjust nieot  of  some  deeon\tion»  and  fiisten  it  to 
the  foundation  belt.  Rebiiste  the  skirt  and  finish  the  pJaeket,  and  again 
baste  it  to  the  foundation  Mt, 

Try  on  the  garment  for  the  final  fitting.  Adjust  any  decoration,  such 
as  colhir,  lx4t,  or  pockets.  Note  all  lines,  and  turn  the  garment  at  the 
bottom.    Finish  the  garment,  without  further  fitting. 


HOW   TO    MAKK  A    SKIRT   E\^EN   AT  THE   BOTTOM 

The  following  ways  of  making  a  skirt  even  at  the  l>ottom  are 
suggested : 

1.  Put  the  skirt  on,  find  plaee  a  yardstick  perpendicular  to  the  floor 
and  close  to  the  body.  Mark  the  .»?kirt  at  the  top  of  the  yardstick.  Turn 
around,  keeping  the  yardstick  at  the  same  distance  from  the  body,  and 
mark  i)oint;s  around  the  skirt  at  the  top  of  the  yardstick.     ITiis  gives  a 


I 
I 


d 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


line  parallel  to  the  floor,  Bprmd  the  ftkirt  out  on  m  tnhle,  luid  mc&aiire 
down  at  right  ttnglm  to  this  line  the  coirpct  number  of  inches  to  make 
the  skirt  the  desirtni  k«ngth. 

2.  Chalk  the  end  of  a  yardstick  or  niler.  Open  the  lower  drawer  of  a 
dresser  far  enough  to  hold  the  stick,  and  kei'p  the  stick  iis  nearly  parallel 
to  the  floor  aa  possible.  Walk  up  to  the  end  of  the  slick,  and  turn  slowly 
letting  the  chalked  end  of  the  stick  mark  the  skirt.  Spread  the  skirt  on  a 
tAble,  and  mea^urp  down  from  this  chalked  line  the  correct  number  of 
niches  to  make  the  skirt  the  desired  length, 

HOW   TO   KEEP   BIAS  SEAMS   FROM   SAaoma 

After  a  skirt  has  bet*n  Ija^sted  and  stitched,  it  is  well  to  allow  it 
to  liaiig  for  a  number  of  days  in  onler  to  sag  as  much  a^*  it  will. 
It  may  then  Ik'  hemrnefl,  and  it  will  stay  even  for  some  time* 
If  seams  are  stayed  with  a  very  firm  piece  of  material,  such  as 
tape  nr  selvage,  they  may  cret^p  up»  ur  the  hia.^  material  at 
each  side  of  the  f*eam  may  sajc  down.  Better  than  t^  \m^  a 
straiglit  edge,  is  to  ust*  a  binding  on  a  different  bias  from  that 
of  the  Beam,  This  will  keep  the  .seam  fi-om  sagging,  but  it  will 
be  sufficiently  elastic  to  make  a  graceful  seam. 

SUGGESTIVE  FINISHES  TO   BE   USED   BY  THE  HOME  WORKER 

Cuffi^  and  coUai's. 

The  material  in  the  cuffs  and  the  collar  should  be  the  same, 
and  l3oth  the  cuffs  and  the  collar  should  have  the  same  general 
shape.  For  example,  if  the  corners  are  rounded  on  the  collar 
the  same  type  of  corner  should  appear  on  the  cuffs.  The  Ixist 
shape  for  the  opening  of  the  collar  and  the  best  outline  depend 
entirely  on  the  figure  and  the  sliape  of  the  face. 

The  cuffs  and  collar  may  Ix?  made  of  a  texture  contrasting 
witli  that  of  tlie  drei^a  but  of  a  color  liarmonizing  with  it.  A 
garment  is  always  more  intcrej^ting  if  some  contrast  is  intro- 
duced. The  possible  combinations  of  textures  and  colors  with 
a  gown  depend  to  a  great  extent  on  the  personality  of  the  wearer. 
For  example,  one  person  may  look  well  in  white  linen  collars 
and  cuffs  on  a  blue  serge  dress,  while  another  person  who  may 
be  less  tailored  in  appearance  or  whose  complexion  may  bo  lesa 
clear,  finds  it  neces,sary  to  wear  georgette  collars  and  cuffa 
to  prevent  the  transition  from  the  dress  to  the  collar  to  the  com- 


I 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING  365 

plejdoo  from  being  too  pronounced.     Therefore,  the  .smallest  ^ 
part  of  decoration  must  be  studied  in  relation  to  the  i>erson  who 
is  to  wear  the  garment. 

Some  suggestive  combinations  of  materials  are  as  follows: 


7^0  be  u^ed  uyith  imol: 

L  Ci^irgi»tt«  er^pe  wUl  keep  the  gown  all  in  a  t^uixk'-Jike  tpxture  if 
roiiibineti  with  a  dull  material  such  iis  Bcrge,  It  is  a  most  hceominR  texture, 
hecatJse  the  li^lvt  <if  its  surface  in  l)r(>kea  up,  ami  iJ  la  thin  enough  to  allow 
the  rolor  of  a  dark  Rown  to  Ije  seen  through  it,  thus  producing  a  gradual 
transition  from  the  gown  to  the  complexion.  This  is  true  of  any  of  the 
thin  niateriaK 

2.  Chiffon  is  more  appropriate  than  Georgette  cr^pe,  for  formal  ma- 
terials sueh  as  broadcloth;  it  is  more  formal  but  not  bo  universally 
becoming. 

3.  Wa^h  satin.  The  texture  of  wash  satin  causes  it  to  reflect  the  light 
in  large  masses,  and  in  itself  it  is  very  attractive.  Since  it  is  of  a  rather 
heavy  texture,  it  makes  a  harsh  contmst  between  the  dress,  the  collar, 
and  the  complexion.  It  should  be  studied  carefully  with  the  gown  and 
the  ix?r«on  who  i.s  to  wear  it^  bc^foro  being  c^hosen. 

4.  Organdie  or  swiss  is  a  little  more  criap  than  Georgette  crdi>e  and  not 
BO  universally  becoming.  It  gives  a  very  fresh  appearance  to  almost  any 
wool  gown  excepting  those  made  of  the  more  forma!  materials,  such  as 
broadcloth. 

5.  Voi!e  or  handkerchief  linen. 

f3.  Linen  or  piqu<5.  Either  linen  or  piqu^  is  verj"  becoming  to  some 
persons  but  makes  so  harsh  a  contrast  with  the  complexion  that  it  jjs  not 
becoming  to  all. 

7.  Novelty  materials  such  as  cretonne  and  auede,  should  be  situdied 
carefully  before  Ijeiiig  cand>ine<l  with  the  average  dress. 

S.  Broadclijth  and  serge.  Woolen  materials  such  as  broadcloth  and 
serge  make  interesting  collars  but  add  to  the  warmth  of  the  garment. 


I 

I 
I 


To  be-  used  uyiih  »ilks: 
L  Georgette  ergpe.     2. 
.  Organdie.    6.  Net. 


Chiffon.     3.  Panne  velvet.     4.  Bolting  cloth. 


5.  Plain  gingham  or  chambray^ 


7^0  be  used  unlh  mttonfi  anfl  Unerut: 
1.  Linen.    2.  Piqud.    3.  Pophn.    4.  Voile, 
with  plaid  material. 

Sn^gesHve  edge  finishes  for  cuffs  and  collars: 

I.  Alachine  hemstitching  or  piquot.     2.  Bias  binding,    3.  Hem  turned 
to  right  side  and  held  in  place  by  a  simple  emliroidery  stitch  (Fig,  82)* 
4,  Hand  scalloping.     5.  Scallopetl  hem.     B.  Scalloped  facing.     7.  RollM 
Jicm  made  with  colored  threads.    8,  Very  small  crocheted  edge.    9.  Footing. 


366 


A  MAXUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


10.  Bennuda  fagoting.     11,  Hnmatitching.     12.  Wide  facing  of  cofit lusting 
material.    13.  Deooralive  machine  stitdiing. 

Waist-line  finishes. 

The  following  waist-line  finishers  may  be  used  for  the  top  of 
the  skirt  when  it  is  sewed  over  the  wabt  on  the  foundation  belt. 


M^ytxnn%yiiiyM 


^^^tmji   ^1^  ^^ 


iJ5JSl£i5i2l=i»Jf^| 


Fto.  82. — Combine ttoae  of  nmple  embroidery  stitches  to 
be  U9ed  ia  deconittug  collars,  culfa,  aprons,  and  droiea. 

1.  The  skirt  may  be  turned  H  inch  to  the  wronir  side  and  basted  along 
the  waist4ine.    It  is  then  stitched  1/H  inch  below  the  edge. 

2.  If  tin  outj*ide  Mt  is  to  be  used  with  the  dress,  the  unfinished  edge  of 
thr  skirt  umy  l)e  placed  on  the  wuist-Une  ofid  stitched  into  place.    Taffeta 

fkCfwri-lnndim:  i<  thc*n  sfitchcHl  over  the  !infinish**<i  r<lgirs. 


d 


THE  MAKING  OF  CWTHING 

3.  The  skirt  may  be  finished  with  an  ins^rtpfi  cord  or  piping  of  the  i 
or  a  contrasting  texture.  In  using  piping  or  cord  finishes,  care  must  lie 
taken  not  to  create  an  unlx^ponung  line  or  introduce  too  nmny  definite  lines. 
Color  and  texture  must  be  considejped, 

Finhhesfor  the  bottom  of  the  skirt. 

The  followiiip;  finishes  may  be  usetl  for  the  bottom  of  skirtSi 
overskirt.s,  or  floaiiees: 

1.  Hera-  The  skirt  may  be  hemmed  by  hand  or  on  the  machine.  In 
wool  or  silk  it  is  generally  preferable  to  have  the  hem  slip-stitched  into 
place, 

2.  Hem  with  one  tiiminii;.  The  row  edge  of  the  material  may  be  catch- 
stitched  into  place  and  covered  with  Prussian  Ijinding.  Any  surplus  full- 
ness may  Ije  shrunken  out,  gathered,  or  placwl  in  dnrt?^  which  muwt  fall 
at  right  angles  to  the  line  of  stitching.  Thij^  kind  of  hem  is  often  used  in 
material  which  does  not  fray  easily. 

3.  Fancy  hem.  The  hem  may  be  turned  to  the  right  side  and  finished 
with  a  cord  or  piping;  it  may  be  held  in  place  by  decorative  machine 
stitching;  or  it  may  be  scalloped, 

4.  Facing?  or  false  hem. 

5.  Bindings  of  various  widths, 

6.  Machine  hemstitching. 

7.  Piping  or  cording. 

Simple  desigjis  in  embroidery. 

Simple  designs  Is  embroidery  stiitahle  for  finishing:  cuffs  and 
collar?^,  holding  hems  in  place,  and  decorating  belts  and  packets 
are  t^hown  in  Fig.  82. 

Set-in  pocket. 

The  set-in  pockety  suitable  for  shirt-waists,  sport  skirts, 
and  middy  blouses,  is  shown  in  Fig.  83. 

Bound  buttonholes. 

Bound  buttonholes  also  have  their  decorative  value  and  are 
shown  in  Fig.  84. 

Arrows. 

If  it  is  de^iired  to  use  arrows,  the  making  may  be  seen  from 
Fig.  85. 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


i 


Pio.  83. — Sct*iu  poekc'l.  The  bindiDg  piwc  fnu»t  be  madr  tw»p<?  tkB  long  us  t\w 
iJc^r^  '  '  :  'H  of  tht*  jKJckct,  plu5  the  amount  of  nmtcriiil  U$  bt^  iasimI  In  the* 
bif!  H  may  bo  of  a  contrasting  (*ok»r  ur  ttiHt<'naJ,  or  a  amtill  piece 

of  L  :  .,  .  liih  to  bind  the  cut,  may  be  ptftced  Jx-twoen  the  garment  and 
lh<?  IKJckot  lining.  Btitehrd  into  plarv,  and  later  f^i^ti^ned  to  the  lining. 
ii.  Marking  the  ganucnt  for  the  poeket,    B,  Mtukiug.  bitj$ting»  and  stttclt* 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


369 


SUITABLE  MATERIALS  FOR  VARIOUS  TYPES  OF  DRESSES  AND  WAISTS 

For  h(}U9e^reii.Heji:  Gingham,  (^hambray,  \itwu,  nopliti,  crfipe. 

For  bu^ine,sH  i>r  xtreH  dr^i^ses:  Serge,  poplin,  gitljardine^  finfi  twilled  ma- 
terial, dull  satin. 

For  forvial  drc^se^:  Brondcloth,  velvet,  cr^pe  de  chine,  flatin,  messaline^ 
taffeta,  charnieuHe,  chiffon,  ^f>r»rgett4^  rrdpe,  cr^pe  rnptet>r. 

For  afierfumn  dre^'ises:  Batiste,  swiss,  voile,  dimity,  novelty  maternal ^ 
linen,  crfipe  de  ehine,  pussy  willow  taffeta,  cr^pe  meteor,  challia,  nun's 
vcihng,  wool  crfiipe»  benriotta. 

.    For  Mrt-waisls:  Tub  silk,  hea\^^  china  silk,  habutaj^  madras,  flannel, 
linen. 

For  fancy  tmiats:  Handkerchief  linen,  voile,  batiste,  georgette  cr^pe, 
Boft  taffeta,  chifiTon.  • 


SUOGESTIONS    FOR   ECONOMY   IN   DRESS 

It  will  he  found  economical  to  select  one  color  for  a  season 
and  choose  ^aiiTipnts?  that  will  harmonize,  A  definite  portion 
of  the  ineoine  shtnild  be  set  aside  for  etothing  and  this  amount 
should  not  be  exceeded. 

It  is  economy  to  buy  the  very  best  possible  material.  Fewer 
clothes  may  l^e  bought  if  necessary,  but  the  material  and  texture 
should  be  good.  Well-made  garments  that  are  Lmught  are 
expensive;  gai'ments  of  equal  quahty  can  be  made  at  home 
more  cheaply,  if  a  woman  is  skillful  and  if  her  time  ia  not  more 
valuable  spent  in  some  other  way. 

MAKING   SIMPLE    I-NDERGARMENTS     (jULL^.   OLE^^SOn) 

When  making  or  buying  undergarments,  the  |x>ints  to  con- 
sider are  simplicity  and  durabihty  of  materials  and  ilesign, 

log  the  lining  into  [jhue.  The  right  sidt?  of  the  liaiiiK  \a  phivtM  to  tho  nght 
side  of  the  giinrit'iit,  then  hastcid  and  atitehc^d.  It  ir*  otton  ItotteT  to  t^iper 
the  comers  in  stttehini!:.  if  the  material  is  at  all  heavy,  C,  Right  side  of 
garment.  The  liaiajr  is  pulled  thrniigh  to  the  wmtig  wide  and  adjusted  aa 
in  the  IxiUntJ  huttonholc.  The  upper  and  lower  edgea  of  thf?  porket  should 
be  bunted  to  hold  the  material  in  place,  D,  The  poeket  m  stitched  on  the 
machine  elose  U\  the  edge  of  the  Kannerit  along  the  two  ends  and  ucroaa 
the  lower  side.  fc\  The  lower  end  of  the  pocket  ia  l.irought  to  the  upper  end 
on  the  wrong  side  of  the  garment  and  the  two  sides  and  ends  atitehed 
t^igether  and  overcasted.  F,  The  garment  ia  turned  to  ihe  right  side,  and 
the  top  of  the  pocket  stitched  across  to  correspond  with  the  other  stitching. 
Arrows  may  be  Uised  at  the  ends  of  the  pocketa  to  cover  any  fulling  of  the 


oioth. 


A 


84. — Method  of  making  a  bound 
buttonhole,  which  may  he  iiaed 
also  for  decoration.  A,  Markinit 
the  line  for  the  buttonhole.  B^ 
Basting  the  biadinft  dirtH^tly  over 
the  mark  for  the  hole.  The  Tight 
side  of  the  biDding  is  placed  to  the 
right  aide  of  the  material.  This 
binding  may  be  cut  on  the  biaa 
or  straight,  about  1  inch  loti^r 
than  the  hole  and  about  1  inch 
widi*,    C\  8titrhing  fimily  artmnd 

mark  for  the  hok\  about 
inch  above  and  below  thf*  line  of 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


with  special   reference  to  their  laundering  qualities.     Cheap 
trimming  is  not  in  good  ta^te^  nor  does  it  wear  welL    Trimmings 


85. — Method  of  making  an  arrow,  a  suitable  finiah  for  the  ends  of  aeama 
darts,  plaitd,  bound  biittoahoLcs  and  aet-in  pockets. 

of  the  same  materifil  as  the  undergarment  save  expense  and 
produce  attractive  results. 

Materials  suitable  for  undergarments 

Miishn:  Heavy ,  firm  cotton  material  of  plain  weave;  vpr>'  durable. 

Lortgctoth:  f'irm,  closeJy-woven  cotton  material  with  slig^iUy  fyz^y  sur- 
face; filler  than  muslin,  very  dunible,  but  difficult  to  work  on  by 
band. 

Cambric:  Light-weight,  plain  cotton  material  of  varying  degrees  of  fine- 
ness; soft,  smooth  finish;  wears  and  launders  well. 

Nains(H>k:  Sheer,  lipht-weisht  cotton  material  loosely  woven,  of  varying 
dcKre^s  of  fineness;  plain  weave  or  crossbar;  suitable  for  fine  underwear. 

Cr^lic:  Hohf  crinkled  cotton  material;  ironing  unnecessary, 

RippleeUe:  Soft  cotton  material  with  plain  and  crinkled  stripes;  ironing 
ijniiccessar>'. 

Ginghfim:  Colored  cotton  materiaJ^  striped,  checked^  or  plain;  suit-able 
for  underskirt.^  to  wear  with  dark  dresses. 

8aicen:  Soft,  smooth-finished  cotton  material,  white  or  colored^  with 
twill  weave;  kw^ks  somewhat  like  satin. 

Silk:  Skinner's  satin  (Kilk  or  cotton  back),  lining  satins,  taffeta,  cr^pe-de- 
chinr,  and  the  like;  used  chiefly  for  underskirts  to  be  worn  with  wool  and 
silk  drt»8ses. 

Flanml:  Cott'On  or  wool;  used  for  warm  underskirts  and  nightgowns. 

Linen:  Handkerchief  Itnon  or  linen  lawn;  shrer,  cool  material;  makes 
dainty  gamients  but  creases  and  wTinkles  easily. 

marking.  Dn  The  buttonhole  is  cut  along  the  line  of  marking  through 
the  facing  and  the  garment.  At  the  ends  the  material  is  cut  diagonally 
towards  €?ach  wrner.  a-s  rliise  Uj  the  Btitcliing  as  possible*  /?,  Wrong  aide 
of  garment.  Pull  the  biridififr  throiiKh.  the  ends  first*  letting  them  form 
an  inverted  plait  juKt  oppr>aitf"  thr  rnt,  leavint^  only  a  mil  at  the  enda  on 
the  right  Hide.  Adjust  th«'  sides  of  the  hindiriR  htj  that  the  two  etlges  just 
fill  the  buttojihnlc.  F^  Turn  in  the  binding  and  hem  or  slipatitch  it  into 
plaee.  taking  ureitt  rare  not  to  cateh  through  to  the  right  ^ide,  G,  Finiahtvl 
l>utU>nho]e.    Careful  pressing  ia  neceaaary  after  each  stept 


372 


.1   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Trimifigs  suitable  for  midergannenis 
TriminmgH  should  correspond  in  fineness  with  the  material 

on  which  they  arc  place<I;  they  shoulil  l>e  simple  in  design  and 

sparingly  used.    A  very  httle  good  laee  is  far  better  than  a  great 

deal  of  cheap  lace. 

Laces  (edges^  insertions^  headings), — The  following  laces  are 

satisfactory  for  undergamients: 

1.  Valenciennes,  or  ^' Val/*  a  fine  cotton  lace  made  by  hand  and  iDijUU*d 
by  tnucliine.  It  may  bo  made  with  a  round  mesh,  German  V*al;  a  diamond 
mcyh,  French  Val;  or  a  square  mesh,  FiHel  Val.  Valcnciennra  bees  arc> 
suitable  for  nainaook  or  fine  linen  iinderjjarment-s,  Vuit  thi»y  do  ni>t  w*^ar 
very  well  when  used  with  heavier  materials.  In  g:enerat,  round  and  diamond 
mesh  lac<^  wear  better  than  do  srjuiire  nieHb  hiw^. 

2.  Cluny»  a  Unc^n  hvee  made  by  hand  and  imitated  by  machine,  varying; 
in  fineness  of  thread  and  design.  Cluny  hu-es  are  suitable  for  nainauok, 
linpn^  and  cambric  underRarment^;  the  heaviiT  qualities  may  be  um?d  on 
heavier  material^i.    They  are  very  durable, 

3.  Torchon,  a  linen  lace  made  by  hand  and  machine,  suiiuble  for  aU 
kinds  of  undergarments  and  verj'  durable, 

4-  Crochet,  a  handmade  lace  of  cotton  or  linen  thread  of  varying  d<*- 
grees  of  fincncaa.  Certain  typical  patterns  made  in  Ireland  are  called  Irish 
crochet.  Crocheted  laces  are  suitable  for  fine  undergannents  when  made 
of  fine  thread  and  in  dainty  design.  Clumsy,  coarse  ynkes  and  edges  of 
fKKir  design  are  unattnictivr%  particularly  when  f?een  through  sheer  outer 
garment*!;  they  are  too  rough  to  tie  comfortable  when  used  (m  a  nightgown. 

5.  Fillet,  a  squar*^m»»sh,  linen,  handmade  lace,  imitated  by  machine. 
It  is  suitable  for  fine  underjcanncnts. 

fi.  Footing,  a  net  trimming  with  finished  edges  like  insertion.  It  is 
BUitablo  for  casings  on  fine  underwear. 

Tatting  h  a  hand  triniming  made  with  a  .shuttle  from  thread 
of  varying  degrees  of  fineness.  It  is  an  attractive  trimming  for 
simple  undergarments. 

Embroideries  (edges,  ifhsertioJiff,  headings), — Embroideries  of 
various  kinds  are  suitable  for  any  tyije  of  undergarment.  Entre- 
deux  is  a  f?eam  l>eading. 

Bias  hands,  bindings,  and  faeings, — Plain,  inexf>ensivc«  dur- 
able trimnung  may  he  made  of  bias  bands,  bindings  antt  faeing!^ 

Braj'd.— Feathers* itfljed  finishing  braid  or  seallrjj>ed  bniid 
makes  a  simple,  eflfeetive  trimming  for  plain  utulergarmcnti^. 


I 


THE  MAKING  OF  CWTHING 


373 


Hand  tnihroiflenj, — French  embroidery,  or  satin  stitch,  and 
dpporLLtive  .stitrhes,  such  tis  featherstitchiiig,  chainstitehifi|):. 
and  the  likc%  may  iw  used  on  fine  hneii  or  nainsook  undergar- 
ments when  time  is  not  an  object. 

Machine  hemMitching, — Maeliine  hem.stiteliing  Ls  effective 
for  sewing  in  yokes,  holding  gathei-s  in  place,  and  the  hke»  It 
is  done  at  most  sew^ing  machine  agencies  for  a  small  price  a 
yai'd. 

Construction  of  undergarments 

Before  making  undergarments,  a  gootl  commercial  pattern 
of  the  correct  size  should  be  bought,  and  the  amount  of  material 
that  the  pattern  directs  purchased.  The  directions  should  be 
read  carefully,  and  the  garment  cut  accordingly.  The  gar- 
ment must  be  basted  and  fitted  carefully,  liecause  patterns  are 
not  exactly  correct  for  every  type  of  figure. 

Seams  suitable  for  undergarments. 

The  following  kinds  of  seams  are  suitable  for  undergarments: 

1.  Pkiiti  »('ani  (FigHi.  86,  87 )j  tho  joining  of  two  efl^es  with  one  row 
of  Hlitchinji^.  The  edges  may  be  firiishc*(i  by  overcaslin^  Omhtj  loKcHher  or 
aeiiiirate,  Ijy  binding  them  together  or  se{mnitOj  or  by  turnmg  them  under 
uml  stitching  tlicm. 

2.  French  seam  (FiR.  88) »  a  seam  within  a  seam.  A  narrow  «eam  is 
sewed  on  ttie  right-side  of  Ihe  guniient,  then  turned  to  the  wrong  side, 
and  a  seeond  ntif  ehin^  made  jui^t  far  enough  from  the  edge  to  conceal  the 
raw  edges  nf  the  first  s*mm. 

3.  Fell  or  felled  Beam,  a  flat,  smooth  seam.  There  are  various  kinds  of 
fells: 

A  hemmed  fell  (Fig.  89)  may  be  ui^ed  in  handmade  garments.  A  plain 
seam  is  made  on  the  wnmg  side,  One  edge  is  trimmed  narrower  than 
the  other,  and  the  wider  edge  is  ere^is^-d  over  the  narrower.  The  seam  is 
then  laid  f!at  and  the  folded  edge  hemmed  down  to  the  material. 

A  glitched  fell  is  a  tjiilorf^d  seam.  A  plain  «eam  ih  mwt^l  on  the  right  sitle. 
One  edge  is  trimmed  narrower  than  the  other.  The  seam  is  laid  flat  and 
basted  and  stiteht'd  down  to  the  materiaL 

A  flannel  fell  (Fig.  91)  i.s  Ui^ed  in  flannel  garments.  A  plain  seam  is 
sewed  on  the  wrong  side.  One  edge  m  trimmed  narro\teT  than  the  other. 
The  seam  is  laid  fiat  and  the  n\w  edge  eateh-stitehed  down  to  the  materiaL 

A  standing  fell  is  us^hI  to  rt(nv  a  gutheretl  edge  to  a  plain  c?flge.  The 
gathered  edge  is  first  sewed  to  t  he  plain  edge  in  a  plain  seam  on  the  wrong 


374 


A  MANUAL  or  HOMEMAKlNa 


m 


no.  M^FUa  Mua  with 


Ffeo.  87.— Plain 


Left,  pinked 


1 


Fio.  88.— French  seam. 


Fio.  80.— Hemmed  fell. 


Fio.  90. — Overhandcd  or  French  fell. 


Fio.  91.— Flannel  fell. 


side  of  the  material,  the  plain  edge  extending  beyond  the  gathered  edge 
and  the  line  of  stitching  coming  on  the  line  of  gathering.  A  narrow  fold 
is  made  on  the  plain  edge  and  folded  a  second  time  so  that  the  first  folded 
edge  just  covers  the  line  of  stitching.  It  is  then  basted  and  hemmed  or 
ititched  into  place. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CWTHING 


Uses  of  seams  on  undergarmerUs, 

Undergamients  ma}^  be  made  with  varioys  kinds  of  seams: 
For  a  cor.set-covcr  or  combination,  the  uiider-arm  and  shoulder 
searas  may  be  hemmed  fells,  stitched  fells,  or  French  seams; 
for  drawers  and  bloomers,  the  seams  of  the  leg:  and  crotch  may 
be  hemmed  fells,  stitched  fells,  or  I'Vench  seams;  for  a  night- 
gown, the  imder'arm  seam  and  the  seatn  of  the  sleeve  may  be 
henmied  fells,  stitched  fells,  or  French  seams,  the  armhole 
seam  may  be  a  plain  8eam  bound,  or  seam  beading  may  be 
used  with  a  standing  fell  and  French  seam,  or  a  stitched  fell 
may  be  used  in  men's  nightshirts;  for  a  white  cotton  undei'^kiii:., 
a  stitched  fell  or  a  French  seam  may  be  used;  for  a  sateen  or 
silk  underskirt,  a  stitched  fell,  or  a  French  seam  may  be  used, 
or  the  edges  of  a  plain  seam  may  be  overcast,  bound,  or  opened, 
turned  under,  and  stitched;  for  a  flannel  underskirt.,  a  flannel 
fell  may  be  used,  or  a  plain  seam  may  be  opened  and  each 
edge  catch-stitched  down  to  the  garment. 

Top  finishes  for  carset^oper^  combinationj  or  gown.  (Platea 
XIV  and  XV). 

The  fullness  at  the  top  of  corset-covers,  combinations,  or 
gowDfi  may  be  arranged  by : 

L  Gathering,  (a).  The  neck  may  be  fin!fihc!d  with  embroidcTy  ribbon 
beading,  and  lace  edge,  the  gathers  set  into  the  Iwading  with  n  standing 
fell  (page  H7li),  and  the  lace  whipped  to  the  tieailirig  by  hand,  (b)  The 
edge  may  be  gathered  twiee,  and  finished  with  feat  herst itched  finLshing 
braid  and  laec  tnlge  or  tatting,  or  with  bias  fa('ing  or  binding  which  may 
be  featheratitched  by  hand.  (c)  The  neck  may  be  fini.shed  in  either  of 
the  ways  jyst  suggested  without  l>eijig  gathered.  It  rnay  be  drawn  up 
with  tape  or  ribl)orL  (d)  The  tnlgc^  of  the  garment  may  be  rolled  and 
gathere<l  and  wliipped  to  lace  txeading  and  edge,  (e)  Wide  lace  *^lge 
may  In*  appliquM  to  the  ganneiit  on  the  line  of  the  gathering,  and  fin* 
ished  with  seam  beading  and  a  casing  of  either  batisU*  or  footing  for 
ribboD. 

2.  Hand  tucks.  Hand  tucks  1/16  inch  wide  and  2}^  to  3  inches  long 
may  he  used  in  t<cveral  groups  or  in  one  large  group.  Feathershtching, 
ehainsti telling,  and  lazy  daisii'^  may  be  used  in  simple  designs  betw^een 
the  groups  of  tucb?.  The  neck  may  be  finished  with:  (a)  a  French  hem, 
embroidery,  leading,  and  lace  edge,  (h)  embroidery*  edging  uaeti  as  a 
facing  and  edge,  (c)  lact!  beading  an<i  eiige,  and  laix?  inaertioo  appliquM 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

in  %  sitfipb  design,  (d)  a  bias  fold  or  fidtshing  braid,  (e)  a  widi*  Imie  i 
appliqued  to  give  a  yoke  effect,  with  a  easing  of  footing  or  liditiate,  »ad 
cnlrc'-dfux  um<xI  lictwcfn  the  casing  and  the  lace. 

3.  Miieliine  tuckii.  The  name  finiiihcs  muy  Ix^  used  with  maehine  tucka 
flji  with  hand  tucbi,  Diachine  stitching  taking  the  place  of  Imnd  work 
whert^ver  poj^ible,  h 

4.  Sninckinf^.    Hcvcral  rowa  of  smoeking  may  be  tuned  around  the  neck^  H 
or  the  smocking  rnay  1>e  made  in  groups.    The  garment  may  be  finished 

at  the  net-k  a«  for  ipithering. 

5.  Shirring,     Several  rows  of  gatberinR  may  be  put  in  about  %  inch 
apart  and  the  lines*  of  gathering   featherNtilched  or  chainKtiteh*xl  with  ] 
crochet  cott<)n.     Machine  hem^tttehing  may  l^e  used  to  make  the  gaUiera 
secure.    The  garment  may  be  finished  at  the  top  as  for  giithcring. 

ft.  Eyelets.  Kyelets  may  lie  embroidered  at  intervals  about  l^i  or  *4  i 
inch  Itelow  the  neck  line,  and  the  fullness  drawn  up  by  a  riblx»n.  The  I 
ganncnt  may  be  finished  at  the  top  with  scalloping  and  French  embrtwdery,  ( 
or  it  may  lie  mlle<i  and  have  lace  whipp«^  to  the  inlge. 

7,  Yokes,  Fullness  mtiy  be  set  into  yukes  with  entrt»-deux,  maclumsl 
hemstitching,  insert ion^  or  beading.  The  neek  of  the  yoke  may  be  !iniBhed| 
in  any  of  the  ways  sugges^tcMj^  without  fiillness. 

Finishes  for  mghigown  vnth  high  neck  and  long  sleeves. 

A  ni^blgo\\Ti  with  a  higb  neck  tmd  long  sleeves  may  have' 
fullness  set  into  a  yoke,  whi<*h  may  be  decorated  with  tuck^J 
feathei'stitehinp:!  and  the  like.  The  neck  may  Ijc  finished  with  I 
a  small  collar  havinj^:  a  feat hcrst itched  hem.  The  placket  orj 
front  closing  should  be  about  12  inches  long.  The  slec^ves  rnayi 
Ik*  gathered  into  a  band  at  the  wrist, 

A  sliaped  band  may  Ik*  used  around  the  neck  and  down  the 
fnuit  ('losing,  and  the  sle<*ves  may  be  gathered  into  a  band.    Afl 
small  collar  may  be  finished  with  a  narrow  ruffle  of  embroidery  " 
and  cuffn  made  to  correspond. 


Finishes  for  lov>er  edge^  of  drawers  (Fig.  92). 

The  lower  edges  of  drawers  may  be  finished  with  a  narro^ 
hem  and  lace  edge;  a  narrow  hem»  insertion,  and  edge;  a  wide 
hem,  with  lace  insertion  set  in  above  the  hem;  a  feat herst itched 
or  fagot (*d  hem,  shaped  or  plain;  a  sc^11o|xhI  finishing  braid; 
tucks  and  lace  or  a  hem;  a  shaped  facing;  a  casing  for  ribboa 
to  l^e  tlrawn  up  like  bloomers;  nilfles  of  embroidery  eilge 


erfl 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


Fig,  02.^Mctht>ds  of  finishiDg  the  bottom  of 
drawi*rs.  Left,  sinipic  embroidery  rufflo  act 
on  with  seam  bitiding:  riKlit,  ruffle  with 
featherst Itched  hem  and  hicc  cdg:o. 


PtG*  93. — Methoda  of  finisliiiiK  the  bottom  of 
iiri  iJiideri<kirt.  Li^ft.  tucki-d  Itomif'o;  rigfit^ 
tucked  fiuuiiee  with  embrtjiUt-ry  t^dgt*. 


the  material  fitiishecl  in  any  of  the  ways  just  suggested,  applied 
with  seam  beading  or  a  tuck  finish. 

Finishes  for  bottom  of  urukrskirt  (Figs.  93,  94), 
For  the  bottom  of  a  white  cotton  or  gingliara  undoi-skirt 
without  XI  flounce  or  a  dust  rufHe,  the  following  finishes  may  be 
used:  a  plain  hern,  a  shaix^d  hem  or  facing;  tucks  and  a  hem, 
scalloi)ed  finishing  brai<l,  a  hem  and  rickrack  trimming,  a  hem 
and  heavy  lace  edge,  hand  scalloping. 


under- 
ccttUm- 
i.;ii Mil  natiti  flountHJ 
fiDLMhed  with  scal- 
loped faring. 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


For  the  bottom  of  a  silk  or  sateen  underskirt  without  a  flounce 
or  a  dust  ruffle,  the  following  fini.she8  may  he  used :  a  plain  hera, 
a  shaped  hem  or  faeing*  tuck.s  and  a  hem,  hand  scalloping. 

For  a  flannel  tauierskirt  without  a  flounce  or  a  dust  ruffle, 
feathers! itched  heni  or  hand  scalloping  may  be  use*i. 

An  underskirt  with  a  fl(»unce  nhould  have  the  flounce  set  on 
the  tskirt  with  beading  or  a  tuck  or  a  felled  seam. 

A  white  cotton  underskirt  with  a  straight  gathered  flounce 
may  be  finished  with  an  insertion  and  hem,  a  scalloped  hem  with 
feather^t itching,  a  shaped  facing,  insertion  and  edge,  rows  of 
lace  edge  sewed  together,  tucb*  and  a  hem,  embroidery  flounc- 
ing, tucks  and  embroidery  edging,  hand  scalloping,  a  net  flounce 
with  bias  bands  of  gingham. 

A  white  cotton  underskirt  with  a  circular  flounce  may  be 
finished  ^ith  a  j)Iain  circular  flounce  finished  at  the  bottom 
with  lace  edge  and  insertion,  or  with  sections  or  panels  joined 
with  insertion  or  entre-deux,  scalJoped  or  straight  at  the  bottom. 

A  silk  or  sateen  underskirt  with  a  straight  gathered  flounce 
may  be  finish€*d  with  a  plain  hem,  tucks  and  a  hem,  a  scalloped 
hem  or  facing*  hand  scalloping,  or  an  accordion-  or  knife^plaitetl 
flounce  with  a  hem, 

A  silk  or  sateen  underskirt  with  a  bias  flounce  may  be  finished 
with  a  bias  strip  which  is  finished  with  a  hem,  with  one  bia^s 
ruffle  sewed  to  another,  or  with  one  bias  ruffle  trimmed  with 
several  small  ruffles  or  i>uflings. 

An  underskirt  may  l>e  finished  with  lx:^th  a  flounce  and  a  dust 
rtiffle.  A  dust  ruffle  3  or  4  itiches  wide  may  be  ust*d  on  a  whitrC 
cotton  skirt  or  a  silk  or  sateen  skirt;  or  if  desire<l»  the  bottom 
of  the  skirt  may  be  finushed  with  a  hem  instead  of  a  dust  ruffle. 
The  dust  ruffle  may  be  finished  at  the  lx>ttom  with  a  narrow 
hem  or  with  rickrack  or  finishing  braid,  and  the  bottom  of  the 
flounce  finishetl  to  correspond  with  it* 

Finuhes  for  leaid-Une. 

A  corset-cover  may  be  gathered  into  a  straight  band  cut 
lengthwise  of  the  materiaK  A  circular  pepluin  may  be  set  into 
the  lower  edge  of  the  bantl 


I 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


379 


For  a  combination,  the  corset-cover  may  be  gathered  into  a 
straight  band  cut  lengthwise  of  the  material,  and  the  drawers 
set  into  the  lower  edge  of  the  band. 

Drawers  may  be  finished  with  a  straight  band  cut  length- 
wise of  the  material,  with  a  bias  facing  for  a  flat,  smooth  finish, 
or  with  a  yoke. 


FiQ.  95. — Bound  placket. 


Fio. 


96. — Bound   and   faced 
placket. 


Fio.    97. — Continuous    bound 
and  faced  placket  with  fly. 

An  underskirt  may  be  finished  with  a  straight  band  cut  length- 
wise of  the  material,  with  a  bias  facing  for  a  flat,  smooth  finish, 
or  with  a  yoke. 

Plackets  and  closings  for  undergarments. 
A  corset-cover  may  have  a  plait  ^/a  to  Vs  inch  wide  on  the 
right  side  for  buttonholes,  and  a  hem  ^/s  to  '/i  inch  wide  on  the 


380 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Flo.  9b, — ^Two  met  bods  of  makiu^  a  benixij«xl  pluckct. 


FkO.  90.— Methods  of 
marking  i>ositkns  of 
tNiUonholea. 


iii£  a  buttonhole. 


Fiu.  100.— .A  nnd  B,  Mf«tb- 

ijdti  of  «tratidiii4i   but- 

tonliuim;  C.  oveiviist-  Fia.  101. — A,  Button- 
hot**  «titrh;  B.  bat- 
tonholp  with  fun 
and  hiLr;  t\  double*- 
bar  buttonhole. 


L 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 

left  side  for  buttoas;  or  it  nmy  liavc  ll  plait  and  fly  for  button- 
holes on  tlie  right  side  and  a  hem  for  buttons  on  the  left  side. 

Open  drawer's  may  be  finished  with  bias  facings.  Closed  or 
circular  drawers  may  be  finished  with  a  continuous  bound 
placket  (Fig.  95),  a  continuous  bound  and  faced  placket  (Fig. 
96),  or  a  continuous  bound  and  faced  placket  with  a  tly  (Fig.  97). 

An  underskirt  may  be  tinished  with  a  continuous;  bound 
placket,  a  continuous  Ejound  and  faced  placket,  a  continuous 
bjund  and  faced  placket  with  a  fly  or  a  henmied  placket  (Fig.  98). 

Fasknings  for  tindergarments  (Figs.  99-101). 

Buttonholes  and  buttons  are  the  best  fastenings  for  most 
undergarments  because  they  hiundcr  well,  wear  well,  and  may 
be  an  interesting  part  of  the  design  of  the  closing  of  a  garment. 

Single-bar  buttonholes  are  fan-shaped  at  one  end  and  have  a 
bar  finish  at  the  other.  They  are  generally  used  wliere  there  Ls 
a  strain;  the  button  rests  in  the  fan-shaped,  or  rounded,  end  of 
the  l>uttonhole. 

Doul»le-l>ar  buttonholes  have  the  bar  finish  at  both  ends. 
They  are  generally  placed  vertically  in  the  gannent  and  are 
used  where  there  is  not  much  strain  and  where  the  button  slips 
up  and  down  in  the  buttonhole, 

To  sew  on  liuttons,  the  stitches  should  be  taken  over  a  pin 
placed  on  the  top  of  the  button.  The  pin  should  then  be  re- 
moved and  the  thread  wound  several  times  around  the  stitches 
between  the  l>utton  and  the  gaiTnent  to  make  a  thread  neck  or 
shank  which  liolds  tiie  button  up  from  the  material,  making  raom 
for  the  buttonhole  and  giving  the  faistening  greater  strength. 

CLOTHING    FOR   CHILDREN    (bY   JULIA    GLEASOn) 

The  children's  garments  described  in  this  chapter  are  chosen 
f>ecause  of  simplicity  and  durability  of  design  and  material, 
and  economy  of  time  and  money  in  making  them. 

In  making  or  selecting  garments  for  children  of  any  age  the 
following  points  should  be  considered: 

1.  Hygiene.  The  garment  should  be  such  that  it  can  be 
easily  cleansed,  it  should  not  restrict  body  development  in  any 


I 


L 


I 
I 


382 


.4   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


d 


way,  aod  it  Bhould  be  light  in  weight  in  order  not  to  lire  the 
child.  If  it  is  an  undergarment,  it  should  be  knitted  or  loosely 
woven  to  allow  for  evaporation  of  I  he  body  moisture  and  thus 
keep  tlie  »kin  dry  and  clean,  H  it  in  an  ouUido  garment,  it 
should  f)e  Huch  that  it  will  kce[)  out  the  cold  air  and  hold  in  the 
body  warmth. 

2.  Suitability  of  design  and  material.  Gannents  for  children 
should  be  easily  made,  easily  laundered,  attractive  in  line  ami 
color,  durable,  and  suitable  to  the  child's  environment  and  ac- 
tivities* 

3.  Economy.  The  gannent  should  be  the  most  satisfactory 
one  that  can  be  obtained  for  the  expenditure  of  the  given  amount 
of  time,  energy,  and  money. 

Materials  mtitablefor  infanLs*  closing. 

Materials  that  are  suitable  for  infants^  clothing  are  as  follows: 

VoT  It  nifchtgiowti:  tiaiiisouk,  cotton  flannel^  wtMil  fljinncl,  and  wixil  and 
c*vttiifi  fljiimel. 

Fur  a  pt<itiooat:  aaiiisook,  batisU;,  handkerohief  linen,  cotton  0aimelf 
woo!  flannf^K  and  cotton  and  wool  flannel . 

For  a  nhp:  nairuiook,  batiste,  handk<*rchicf  linen. 

For  a  drt'!^:  nainsfxik,  batiste,  handkerchief  linen,  and  fine  dimity. 

I'or  a  wick:  flannel,  eliallis,  cashmere,  henrietta  cloth.  A  nack  ma^ 
alao  lio  knitted  or  crocheted. 

For  a  coat;  challis,  caahmere,  henrietta  cloth,  or  corded  silk;  china  aillc 
for  hninf^A. 

Fur  a  tjonnet:  batiste,  handkerchief  linen,  and  silk  tDaterialB  of  various 
kiada. 

For  ft  kimono:  flannel  and  challis. 


SiiggesHons  far  making  and  decorating  infants'  clothing, 
Infants'  RartuentJi  are  most  suitable  and  appropriate  when 
made  of  fine  materials  by  hand  and  with  very  little  trimming;. 
The  very  narrow  laoes — }4  to  H  "it^h  ^'ide — fine  tatting,  tiny 
embroidery  bcadin^^,  fcathcrstitching,  fagoting,  hemstitching, 
and  simple  French  embroidery  may  l>e  used  for  decoration* 

A  nightgown  may  l>e  made  kimono  style  or  with  set-in  sleeves. 
The  8oamH  fthoutd  Iw  hemmed  fells;  and  the  hem  should  b© 
made  by  hand.    The  neck  and  ^sleeves  should  be  finished  wii 


len    ■ 


I  wit^^ 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


383 


bia-s  faring  for  tape,  and  they  may  be  featherstitched,  A 
hemmed  placket  may  be  used. 

Petticoats  are  generally  made  on  an  imdenvaist.  the  neck  and 
armhole  of  which  may  be  finished  ineonspieoously  with  a  tiny 
hem  or  narrow  lace  edge.  TIic  seams  on  the  white  petticoat 
may  Ix*  hemmed  fells  or  Frencli  seams;  on  the  flannel  petticoat, 
flannel  fells.  The  bottom  of  the  white  petticoat  may  be  fin- 
ished with  lace  insertion  and  edge,  laee  edge  alone,  a  ruffle  of 
fine  embroidery  of  dainty  desipi,  or  a  feathorstitched  or  hem- 
stitched hem.  The  bottom  of  the  flannel  petticoat  may  be 
finished  with  a  featherstitched  hem,  hand  scalloping,  or  cro- 
cheting. 

A  simple  slip  (Fi^.  102)  Is  most  serviceable  for  constant 
wear.    It  may  be  made  kimono  style  or  with  set-in  sleeves.    The 


I 


I 


Fig.  t02. — Suitable  deslgna  for  an  infantas  dress,  slip, 
and  coat. 

seams  may  be  hemmed  fells  or  French  seams.  The  hem  may  be 
plain,  hemstitched,  or  featherstitched,  and  the  placket  hemmed. 
Tiny  embroidery  beading  and  tatting  or  fine  linen  lace  may 
be  used  for  neck  and  sleeves.  A  few  tiny  tucks,  shirring,  or 
smocking  may  be  used  if  fullness  is  desired. 

A  few  dresses  a  little  more  elaborate  (Fig.  102)  than  the  slip 
may  be  made  for  occasional  wear.  The  seams  may  be  hemmed 
fells,  or  French  seams,  or  they  may  be  joined  with  seam  beading. 
The  hem  may  be  hemstitched,  featherstitched,  or  fagoted  in 


d 


4   UAXUAL  OF  HOMB-MAKISG 


m  0lnigbt  line;  or  it  may  be  featfaenHitdxd,  diai»lJtcbedy  or 
fji^otod  to  Malloped  or  Gr^k  key  deedigD;  a  kuce  eds^  or  him  uk 
•ertioo  atid  ec||[)e  amy  be  used*  The  eoliie  ekiit  may  be  made 
of  fine  anbroidefy  of  daiaty  deugn.  The  pbcket  may  be 
hwnmwL  Tbeoedcaoddeeresmaybefiiushodwttlilaeeoroa^ 
faraideiy  boadiiiiE;  aod  boe  a^  or  tattiiig.  The  sleev'eB  may  be 
iet  in  with  aeam  beading.  A  rcMiod,  square,  or  shaped  yoke 
may  be  liet  io  with  Beam  beadiiig  and  decorated  with  feather- 
utitchjng,  fagoting,  or  French  embroidaFy  in  ample  deajga.  A 
yoke  effect  may  be  secured  by  means  of  groups  of  band  tudca 
altemating  with  a  utmple  embroidery  stitch  such  as  feather- 
ititchingf  or  by  8inocking  or  !>hirTiiig- 

The  sack  may  be  made  kimono  style,  and  the  edgios  finished 
with  hand  scalloping,  crochet,  or  ribbon  binding. 

The  coat  (Fig.  102)  may  \ye  cut  with  a  large  cape  ooDar  and 
may  be  very  plain  or  decorated  with  simple  embroider^'  or 
featberstitching. 

The  bonnet  may  \h*  mt  wrh  n  flnnffe  to  turn  from  the  face, 
and  deromtc*d  with  tiny  ruifl  -  >i  Ji  «  ,  rows  of  feat  hci>t  itching 
and  hand  tuckn,  or  a  lace  edge  whipped  to  a  scalloped  edge. 
The  same  f!*Mr»ration  may  be  used  on  a  bonnet  without  a 
flangeu 

A  kimoiir»  may  lie  made  with  hemmed  fell  or  French  seams, 
and  finished  around  the  neck  and  down  the  front  with  a  shaped 
facing  which  may  Ik?  Hecured  with  featherstitching  or  chain* 
stitching  in  one  of  the  dainty  shades  of  blue  or  jiink;  oi  it  may 
be  bound  with  ribbon  which  may  be  secured  with  feather- 
stitching  or  chainKtitching. 

Demgm  ami  material$  far  garmenis  suitable  for  girts  from  Arce 
to  five  years  of  age. 

The  one-piece  dress  hanging  free  from  a  j'oke  or  very  short 
waist,  or  Ix'lted  ifi  with  a  loose  belt  in  a  long-w*aistc<I  effect  is, 
a  good  style  for  the  child  from  three  to  five  years  of  age  (Fig. 
103)*    The  following  materials  are  suitable: 


I 


I 


For  < 

For 


'-n  cloth,  chiimhniy,  ipnKhaiii,  K-ilatca,  prrcale, 
icre  to  match:  kiiiJrr^rlcn  cioth»  cbambmY, 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


385 


L 


f^inis^harn,  galaiivi.,  tJ^ipHn,  nimlnLs,  percak-,  diiiiily,  Swiss,  batiste,  voile, 
India  linon,  arul  tlu-  likr. 

Designs  and  maieriah  for  garntenlH  s^uiiabh  for  girh  from  six 
to  ten  years  of  age. 


FiQ.  103.- 


-Suitttbli.^  designa  for  dresaea  fur  children  from 
three  to  five  ycara. 


The  simple  one-piece  dress  with  a  belt  Is  a  satisfactory  style 
for  children  from  sLk  to  ten  yeai-s  cjf  age  (Fig.  104).  The  wool 
dress  may  be  worn  with  a  washable  guimpe  in  order  to  keep  it 


ML  .^^^Vr^ 


Fi*3.  104. — Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  children  from  sue 
to  ti'n  yf-^ttrs. 

fresh  and  clean  (Fig.  104).    The  following  materials  are  suit- 

able: 


For  dresses:  Id nderi^iirt en   cloth,    galaiou,    piqu6,    percale,    chambray, 
gingham,  poplin,  inaflms,  Indian  head,  dimity,  voile,  India  linon,  batiste, 


J 


386 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


4 


and  the  like.  Wool  rhallie,  hcjirietta  cloth,  albatrogis,  and  caAtimere  am 
serviceable  light-wi'iglit  wfXklen  materials  suitable  for  winter  wear  when 
the  laundry  prohtem  makes  the  wearing  of  wash  dresses  throughout  the 
year  impracticable. 

For  blocimers;  If  possible,  the  bloomerB  should  be  of  the  same  mAterUl 
aa  the  dress.    Satcnvn  may  be  uaed  for  bloomera  with  wool  dresses. 

Demgna  and  materials  for  garments  Buitabh  for  girh  from  ten 
to  twelve  years  of  age. 

The  washable  middy  blouse  with  the  cloth  skirt  (Fig.  105) 


I 


FlQ*     105.^ — Suitabli?    defllgns    for    dresiefl    for 
chUdren  from  ten  to  twelve  yoati. 

and  Sftteen  bloomers  is  a  satisfactory  combination  for  the  school 
frock;  or  the  middy,  skirt,  and  bloomers  may  be  made  of  the 
same  cotton  material.  The  straight  plaited  skirt  is  a  good 
design.  The  one-piece  dress  in  gingham  or  gaiatea  is  also  satis* 
factoiy  (Fig.  105). 

Knit  undorwaist  and  drawers  or  knit  union  suits  have  been 
foimd  by  many  to  be  the  most  satbfaetory  undergarmejits  for 
children  from  three  to  twelve  years  of  age.    The  bloomers  jskay 


A 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 

be  made  on  a  waist  or  may  fasten  on  the  underwaist. 
lowing  materials  are  suitable: 


The 


For  11  middy  blouse:  middy  twill,  galatea,  poplin,  Indian  head,  khaki, 
lioen,  serRo, 

For  a  skirt:  Any  of  the  materials  suggested  for  a  middy  bloiiBei  or 
gabardine,  rep,  or  wool  aiiitinp^s  of  vanoua  kinds. 

For  a  dress:  Gingham,  chnmbray»  percale,  galatea,  piqu6,  poplin,  cotton 
gabardine,  voile,  batiste,  and  the  like. 

For  IjlfMjmers:  Any  of  the  matcriala  sugg^ted  for  a  dress  or  skirt,  or 
sateen — black,  white,  or  colored. 


Fio,  lOCh— Suitable  dcdgnj^  for  dressea  for  children 
from  twclvti  to  sixt-ecD  years. 


L 


Designs  and  materials  for  garments  .viitablefor  girhfrom  twelve 
to  sixteen  years  of  age. 

A  middy  blouse  and  skirt  or  a  middy  dres^s  may  be  made  of 
any  of  the  materials  suggested  for  younger  girls.  The  same  ma- 
terial may  also  be  iisnd  for  a  wash  dress.  Suggestive  desij^ns 
ai'e  shown  in  Fig.  106, 

A  school  dress  or  a  street  dress  of  serge,  wool  poplin,  gabar- 


L 


388 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME  MAKfiYG 


1 

I 


dine,  whipcord,  tweed,  or  homespun  is  suitable  and  practical 
for  a  girl  of  this  age. 

PATCHING  ♦ 

Patching  is  the  art  of  repairing  or  restoring  worn  places  in' 

garments  and  household  articles.  In  order  to  make  the  pateh 
as  inconspicuous  and  as  strong  as  possible,  several  Hiinga  should 
be  ol>servetL  All  of  the  worn  or  t<jrn  part  should  f>c  cmt  away, 
making  the  hole  either  square  or  oblong.  Suineliine^s  round 
patches  arc  made,  hut  they  are  more  difficult.  If  jjossible,  a 
piece  of  the  material  which  is  as  worn  or  as  faded  as  the  gar-  fl 
ment  should  lie  used,  thus  making  it  less  conspicuous.  To  fade  a 
piece  of  new  cloth,  it  should  be  ilanipcncd  and  laid  in  the  sun. 
Wlien  the  material  is  figtired,  the  pattern  ii^  the  patch  should 
match  that  in  the  garment.  If  there  i.s  a  nap,  it  should  run  in 
the  same  direction  on  L>oth  patch  and  garment.  Warp  and  woof 
threads  should  match  also. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  patches,  hemmed  and  overhand,  and 
one  must  use  judgment  as  to  which  to  u^  in  repairing  articles. 


Hemmedf  or  set-on,  paich. 

The  hemmed  patch  is  the  stronger  and  is  usecj  on  garmetita 
articles  which  are  often  laundered  or  are  subjected  to  hard 
Hence  it  is  used  on    household    linens,   undergarments,  and 
aprons.   The  directions  for  making  it  follow: 

(\)  Cut  ft  square  or  oblong  patch  large  rnoiiKh  to  cover  romplctcly  (at 
lenst  1  inch  l)oyond)  the  worn  place  in  the  garment.  If  a  Ham  pier  is  used 
for  prar{ice»  mako'  a  tear  8uch  as  might  be  tr3rn  in  a  garmr'nl,  (2)  Miet 
matching  the  figures,  crease  from  diagonally  opposit4»  <^»niers  on  bot-li 
garment  and  jmtch  to  obtain  the  eentcre.  (3)  Turn  in  tho  e<lg€*  of  the 
patch  to  the  right  side  slightly  less  than  yi  inch.  Crease  or  baste  down. 
(4)  Place  the  right  side  of  the  patch  to  the  under  side  of  the  opening  with  ' 
the  centers  over  one  another,  and  the  figures  in  the  liurch  and  tlie  garment 
exactly  matched.  (5)  Bn»\x*  into  |io*iitirin  (6)  Hem  with  fine  hemming  i 
stitches.  (7)  Cut  away  all  the  torn  portion  of  the  garment,  making  th^ 
flhapc  of  this  opening  conform  to  the  shape  of  the  patch,  and  aJkiwing  at 
least  5/8  inch  l>etween  the  fH^lges  of  the  patch  and  Ihe  oiR»ning.  (8)  Make 
CUta  on  the  diagonal  creases  I4  inch  deep.    (1»)  Turn  in  the  edges  i^lighdy 

•  Ext.  Circ.  14.  Ck>ll.  of  Agr .,  Uoiv.  of  lU. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 

Item  than  %  inrh,  followinR  a  tliread  of  tfio  iiuitorisil  If  (hr  material  is  a 
plaic!  or  a  Ftri|H',  turn  on  the  edge  of  a  strijK^,  nevor  through  the  midrJIr*  of 
one.  AUo  tlie  patch  will  be  leas  conspicuous  if  the  turning  is  on  a  dark 
rather  than  on  a  Ught  stripe.  (10)  Baste  into  position,  usinjc  great  care 
to  have  stri|>cs  or  figures  match  exactly.  (11)  Hera  with  fine  henuning 
Stitches,    (12)  Remove  the  bastings,  dampen  and  press. 

Overhand,  oi^  set-in^  patch. 

The  overhand  patch  is  less  conspicuous,  so  it  is  used  more 
often  for  outer  clothing.  It  is  less  serviceable,  for  it  is  joined 
to  the  opening  with  only  one  seam,  and  the  corners  are  held  by 
a  single  thread.    It  is  made  iu  the  following  way: 

(1)  Cut  a  square  or  oblong  piece  large  enough  to  cover  completely  the 
worn  place.  (2 )  After  matching  tlie  pat  tern,  crease  from  diiigonally  opposite 
corners  in  both  garment  and  patch  to  obtain  the  centers.  (3)  Turn  in 
the  edges  of  the  patch  }4  inch,  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  material,  turning 
on  the  warp  and  woof  threads.  (4)  Lay  the  wrong  side  of  the  patch  to  the 
right  aide  of  the  garment  with  centers  and  figure.^  matched.  (5)  Bmte 
with  short  stitches  very  c^Ioae  to  the  turned  e^lges.  (6)  Beginning  a  little 
distance  from  one  corner,  overliand  the  (?dge  of  the  patch  to  the  garment 
with  eli>se,  shallow  overhanding  stitches.  Be  very  careful  at  the  corners 
not  to  take  the  stitches  too  deep,  as  thia  will  cause  the  cornera  to  be  puck- 
ered, or  to  catch  in  the  two  middle  thicknesses*  (7)  Continue  overhanding 
around  the  four  sides.  (8)  Remove  the  hasting.  (9)  On  the  wrong  side, 
cut  diagonally  from  the  center  of  the  hole  in  the  garment  to  the  four  ex- 
treme corners  of  the  patch,  (10)  Crease  the  seam.s  open  on  the  overhand' 
ing.  (11)  Trim  Ihe  edges  until  they  are  parallel  to  the  edges  of  the  patch 
and  K  inch  wide.  (Ti)  Cut  off  tlie  cornera  of  the  patch  diagonally,  so 
that  tht^y  do  not  overlap.  (13)  Overcast  separately,  with  short  over- 
casting stitches,  the  edges  of  the  seams. 

CLOTH   DARNING  "^ 

Darninp;  is  the  repairing  of  cloth  by  the  weaving  in  of  threads 
to  replace  torn  or  worn  warp  and  woof  threads.  Knitted  fabrics, 
also,  are  mcntleti  in  this  way.  Dar-ning  is  a  less  conspicuous 
method  of  repairing  than  patching,  although  on  garments  which 
are  subjected  to  very  hard  wear  or  to  much  laundering,  it  is  not 
so  satisfactory.  In  woolen  garments  darning  is  usually  pref- 
erable to  patching,  since  it  is  less  bulky  and  woolen  clothes  are 
not  so  often  laundered. 

*  Ext.  Circ.  14,  Coll  of  A-r.,  Univ.  of  111. 


390  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKISG 

To  make  the  dam  as  inconspicuoui^  as  poesible,  a  raveling  of 
the  matmal  is  u^ccl,  or  if  this  is  not  .strong  enough,  a  silk  thread 
18  tipiit  into  thirdi*,  and  one  of  the^  strands  is  use<l.  When  only 
one  set  of  threads  has  l)een  severed,  whether  it  U*  warp  or  woof, 
this  set  alone  needs  to  be  suppEed,  If  both  warp  and  woof  are 
broken,  they  must  both  l>e  woven  in.  The  stitch  which  is  used 
ifi  a  shorty  loose  running  si  itch,  and,  a^  far  as  possible,  the  darn- 
ing h  done  on  the  wrong  side.  The  edges  of  the  tear  must  be 
neiitly  joined  together  by  passing  over  and  under  them  in  the 
alternate  rows  of  sewing.  The  distance  which  the  stitches  are 
carried  outside  the  tear  depends  on  the  strength  of  the  surround- 
ing material.  If  it  is  very  much  worn,  the  darning  must  be 
made  to  cover  the  thin  places.  To  form  a  guide  for  the  darning 
stitches,  a  basting  thread  should  be  nm  just  outside  the  area 
to  be  darned. 

Tlie  three  forms  of  tears  which  most  often  occur  are  straight, 
diagonal,  and  three-cornered,  vr  hedge.  Sometimes  there  is  a 
hole  which  is  too  large  for  ordinary'  darning,  and  it  can  be  re- 
paired best  by  placing  a  patch  underneath  and  darning  the  edges 
down  over  it.    The  method  of  repairing  these  tears  follows: 

Sirai^hl  (ear. — The  tmr  rnay  he  acroes  either  warp  or  woof  tbreftdB,  so 
the  tniasing  ones  t^hould  Im  woven  in.  Start  the  nmniJig  stitehcs  ba  tmr 
Above  the  cut,  and  carry  them  as  far  beyond,  as  it  is  neceaaary,  in  order 
to  reinforee  the  worn  part.  When  the  te4vr  is  reached,  pass  over  and  under 
the  two  edgi'is  in  alternating  rows,  «o  that  they  are  firmly  held  logiethisr* 
lie  very  eArefvil  not  to  draw  the  threads  too  tightly  aa  this  will  cftuae  a 
puekenM^l  »ppe&maoc. 

Bias  or  diagonal  Uar. — la  n  bins  or  diagonal  tear  lx>th  ttic  warp  and  woof 
threadrt  are  Hcvcrcxl,  and  so  they  must  be  supplic*d.  The  runnini^  stitchos 
iihotild  follow  the  warp  and  wr^jf  thn*a<l;4  of  the  eloth,  not  pl?ie<Hl  at  right 
angles  to  the  cut.  The  wnrp  threads  shrmltl  be  put  in  iirst  as  far  lieyond 
the  t-ear  as  ne<i.»8Hjtry,  and  the  woof  threads  then  woven  in.  llic  woof 
threiidfl  may  be  hiid  faritHT  apart  than  the  warp.  As  this  tear  is  oa  the 
bias,  ca.re  nmst  Im^  lustxl  not  to  stretch  it. 

Thrce-cfnyitrfxi  or  hedge  (fOf. — In  the  threenximcred  tear,  also,  both  the 
warji  and  the  woof  threads  are  severed,  but  not  often  on  the  bias.  The 
daminic  is  tirsit  done  following  the  wartJ  threads  fn>m  one  end  to  the  eomer^ 
then  the  woof  ihreada  are  replaced  in  the  «ame  manner.  At  the  eiirner^ 
there  wdl  be  a  sqtuut»  dam  where  the  supplied  warp  and  wtxif  threads  riiottld 
ix?  intirrlaced. 


I 
I 


L 


A 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


391 


Large  hole  or  nfnm  plaee. — Cut  a  piece  of  the  chth  large  enough  to  cover 
the  hole  or  vv<irn  place,  and  tci  ext(*nd  far  enough  l^eyond  to  reinforce  it. 
If  the  material  is  fifnir«'*l  ur  hiw  i\  imp,  it  ahould  be  matcheci,  Ba8te  the 
right  fside  of  this  patch  to  the  v\roug  side  of  the  garment  with  the  warp 
Hnd  the  woof  thnrndn  inatehioK*  On  ttie  rigtit  side  clarn  over  the  raw 
edges,  without  turning  tliem  uoiler.  If  the  ragged  cdgeft  are  not  entirely 
trimmed  away,  the  uneven nes8  uf  the  edges  will  make  the  darned  place 
less  conspicuous,  I>o  not  carry  the  running  8titche«  acrosH  the  patch  if  it 
is  a  large  one,  l^he  edges  of  the  patch  on  the  wrong  side  may  be  sewed 
dowa  with  long  bctnming  stitches. 

STOCKmG    DARNING* 

A  hole  in  a  stocking  Ls  repaired  by  a  woven  darn.  lo  place 
of  being  woven  in  a  loom  as  cloth  is,  st^^ckinet  Ls  made  on  a 
knitting  machine  and  consists  of  a  series  of  interlocked  loops  of 
a  continuous  thread  or  yarn.  In  darning,  the  loose  loops  should 
be  caught  to  prevent  further  raveling. 

Method  of  stocking  darning. 

Guide  timfor  the  stitches, — As  a  guide  line  for  the  work,  outline  with  baffl- 
ing the  space  to  be  danic<L  Make  the  darn  diamond-shaped^  large  enough 
to  reinforce  all  the  weakened  part  surrounding  the  hole. 

Materials  to  he  u»td, — Use  darning  cotton  to  match  the  color  and  the 
size  of  the  yarn  in  the  stocking.  Fur  the  average  weight  stocking^  except 
thin  lisle  and  silk,  two  strands  of  the  ordinary  four-ply  darning  cotton  Is 
used.  Use  a  needle  which  is  just  large  enough  to  carr>'  the  threa^d,  and 
do  not  knot  the  thread.  If  the  hule  is  too  large  to  hold  over  the  first  two 
fingers  of  the  left  hand,  a  daming-ball  may  be  placed  inside  of  the  stocking. 
Be  very  careful  in  using  a  darner,  however,  not  to  stretch  the  edges  of  the 
hole, 

IjtnglhtiHse  doming  slitrhn. — Darning  is  done  on  the  right  side  of  the 
stocking.  Start  at  the  right  side  of  the  hole  Just  iniiide  the  basting  which 
serves  as  a  guide  hne,  I*ut  in  first  the  lengthwise  stitches  (those  parallel 
to  the  ritj8  in  the  stocking),  using  short,  running  Htitch(*s.  In  turning 
from  one  row  of  stitches  to  the  next,  loops  must  Iw  left  in  the  darning 
cotton  to  allow  for  the  |>uasible  stretching  of  the  stocking  and  the  shrinkage 
due  to  washing.  When  the  hole  is  reiiched^  take  up  on  the  needle  the 
loose  loop  at  the  edge  to  strengthen  the  darn  and  carry  the  thread  across 
the  hole,  taking  up  the  loop  opposite.  Continue  until  the  incloeed  area 
is  filled  with  these  lengthwise  stitches. 

Crosmsiae  darning  utitchen^ — Start  in  the  same  manner  from  the  top 
putting  in  crosswise  stitches.    Interweave  these  stitcbe.^  with  the  length- 

•  Ext,  Circ.  14,  CdlL  of  Agr,.  Univ,  of  111. 


MANUAL  OF  ffOME-MAKlNG 


md  mhm  tbi*  hole  is  reached  wf&rc  Ihe  woof  threads  over  and 
nail!  warp  Uireadt*  la  the  next  tqw^  pnas  under  thc!  tbr^a^da 
►  pamed  over  iji  the  pree^iiiig  row.    Continuf?  unfil  the  space 

f  BU«d.    Hie  htUHlitd  liani  »hmild  be  UDOotb  lo  that  It  will 

)k*  tin  Ihe  kmi. 


ml.  Gblfaii«forWbaMB.    J.  P.  Lippineoit  CSo. 
Gbarioi  Soribiiarli  Sons. 


^     f 


CHAPTER  XVI 

MILLINERY 

By  Beulah  Blackmoee 

Hats  should  be  analyzed,  and  the  peculiar  defects  of  every 

unsatisfactorj''  hat  Hhould  be  exactly  noted.  In  this  way  a 
group  of  principles  may  l>e  mastered,  which  should  be  followed 
regardless  of  the  season's  vagaries  in  shape  and  triraming. 


HOW   TO   SELECT   A    HAT 

No  definite  statement  can  be  made  as  to  what  should  or 
should  not  be  worn.  In  selecting  a  hat,  the  arrangement  of  the 
hair,  the  shape  of  the  face  and  its  coloring,  the  relation  of  the 
hat  to  the  head  and  of  the  head  to  the  whole  figure  must  be 
considered. 

Proportion  and  balance. 

Of  first  consideration  in  the  study  of  hats  is  the  relation  both 
of  the  hat  to  the  head  and  of  the  head^  including  the  hat,  to  the 
entire  figure.  Since  the  figure  may  be  seen  from  all  sides,  the 
hat  shouki  look  well,  not  only  from  the  direct  front  view,  but 
from  every  possible  point  of  view.  In  general,  the  crown  and 
the  brim  should  be  in  good  proportion  to  each  other,  and 
the  hat  should  be  in  proportion  to  the  head  and  to  the  whole 
figure. 

To  make  broad  shoulders  appear  less  broad,  the  crown  of 
the  hat  should  be  fairly  high,  while  the  brim  should  be  fairly 
wide  in  order  to  balance  the  hips.  This  is  liiit  a  single  example  of 
the  relation  t>f  the  hat  to  the  figure.  A  hat  that  is  tofj  large 
gives  a  tnp-lieavy  ap[xmrance  and  thus  disturbs  the  proportions 
of  the  human  figure,  A  sufficient  sense  of  balance  is  inherent 
in  the  average  person  to  guide  her  judgment  in  selecting  a  hat, 

393 


4 


I 
I 


d 


A  MAWUAL  or  bomemakim: 


Mi-fei«ai^ 


dmdd  be  cmefnlly 
niitod  to  the  hernia  sad  IhodSorc,  ael  meamfy  ^nd  aqoai^r 
on  Ibe  be^i  NoUittag  ban  m  more  misfit  appmnact  than  m 
taqne  la  biipe  thsl  ai  wmum  to  be  bowiffiMpme,  or  so  mall 
that  it  mmum  to  be  iiittMW.Ij  penJmd  cm  flie  head.  The  toque 
pmerally  iibotdd  not  be  worn  bjr  a  penoo  witk  a  lari^  face  or 
wttb  hif^  eolor^  became  it  leods  to  enpluKtse  both  feature  and 
eolorp    I  tiideiigiied  for  a  perioa  of  delicate  features  aodinoder^ 


^'*^*^*"'<i/itr   ^w 


Flo.  107.— *C<irfw*t  msit  uf  a  rniwn.  shown  by  the  hea\'y  Uni?. 
litcly  prtllitl  f*om|ilrxiorL    Tlic  luiir  should  show  slightly  around 

A  haf  with  n  Imm  »<rls  tin'  fnvv  stnnowlmt  m  the  shadow  and 
ri^i iri^N  any  iin*luly  prnminfrit  tVatures.  If  it  is  desired  to  tesscn 
ihf  |>rorniiH»ri('i«  of  ii  Hiiiglc?  ftmture,  an  iriteit*stiiijt  color  or  line 
cif  n»tiHtnit'ti«>ii  may  Ik*  mi  arrangocl  lus  to  divirle  the  attention 
vnlU^il  U)  \hv  f(*nluro.  Ah  an  vxaniplc,  for  a  face  with  a  prorni- 
netM  n«wr,  tniiiTiiin^c  Hint  triids  tu  lengthen  the  line  from  the  nose 
to  the  Imek  of  the*  hat  nhoultl  l>e  avoided.  Instead,  the  interest- 
ing Mfmt  <m  thi*  hat  nlKUiId  U*  plaeed  at  the  front  or  the  side 
front  in  order  t(>  hreak  the  line  and  divide  the  eenter  of  intercut* 

1'he  tewt  for  the  erirnn't  i^izo  of  the  erown  h  that  it  shall  W 
neither  leH*^  than  the  width  of  the  face,  nor  greater  than  the  coti- 
four  <»f  the  hiiir  (Fig.  107).     If  the  hair  18  puffeil  considerably 


I 
I 


MILLINERY 


396 


at  the  sidpi^,  an  elongated  erown  placed  (^rosswise  on  the  hat 
iTiay  be  ust^L 

llie  crown  ,slioiild  not  be  set  so  low  on  the  heat!  that  the  eye- 
brows, which  give  the  dark  contrast  to 
the  face,  are  covered.  The  hat  should 
be  large  enough  and  low  enough,  to  give 
the  appearance  of  being  finnly  placed 
on  the  head,  not  perched  on  the  hair 
(Figs.  108,  109).  The  crown  should  be 
placed  squarely  on  the  head;  if  a  tilted 
effect  h  desired,  it  may  be  accomplislied 
by  tilting  the  bnni  only  (Fig.  110), 

In  general,  the  front  line  of  the  crown 
should  continue  the  Une  of  the  forehead 
(Figs.  107-109).    At  the  back,  the  line 
should  not  extend  beyond  tlie  hair.     If 
the  hair  extends  far  beyond  the  head, 
the  back  line  of  the  crown  should  fall 
between   the  contour  of  the  hair  and 
the  head.    In  no  case  should  the  back  Mna  of  the  crown  fall  in- 
side the  line  of  the  head.  The  tarn  o'shanter  crown  should  lx*ar  at 
its  base  the  same  relation  to  the  hea<l  as  should  any  other  crown. 
_,__.^  A  turban  should   he  placed  well  on 

the  head,  not  allowed  to  hang  off  at 
the  back  (Fig,  111),  and  thus  destroy 
the  balance  of  the  %vhole  figure. 

Brims  are  intended  as  a  protection  for 
the  eyes,  but  they  are  usually  extended 
at  the  sides  and  the  back  for  balance. 
The  brim  of  a  hat  should  not  unrler 
Fio.  109,— Correct  piarinK  j^^jy  circum^stances  extend  beyond  the 
hL^.i'lb^^^^^  shoulders.    A  brim   may  }ye  tilted   in 

any  becoming  way  if  the  balance  of  the 
hat  is  not  destroyed  or  if  the  balance  is  restored  by  the  use  of 
trimming.  A  brim  should  not  be  so  drooping  that  the  eye- 
brows are  covered,  or  so  upturned  that  a  becoming  shadow  for 
the  face  m  lost* 


Fkk  108. — lomrrwt  site  of 
crown.  T  h  e  crown 
should  be  sufficiently 
large  to  be  aet  well 
down  on  t  h  e  bead; 
otherwiae.  the  hat  may 
ap|>ear  to  be  inseciijiely 
placed  as  here  shown. 


I 


396 


A   UANVAh  OF  HOME-MAKING 


mm 


Hat«  of  fftraw  and  other  light*weight  textures  may  be  larger 
than  ttiose  of  velvet  and  other  heav>'  materials,  A  hat  that  is 
li^t  in  color  always  haa  the  effect  of  being  larger  than  a  dark 
_  one  of  the  same  ose.    If  a  dark  hat  b 

desired  and  dark  colojis  are  unbecoming, 
the  hat  may  be  faced  with  a  light  color. 

Line  and  form. 

Already  exaggerated  features  or  un* 
desirable  lines  of  the  face  should  not 
be  accented  by  a  pronounced  repetition 
^  of  the  direction  of  these  lines  in  the 

Pio.  iJO,^Th<«  prominf'fit  hat.    For  example,  if  there  are  heavy 


hJ^'^utllt  downward  lines  atout  the  mouth.  Uie 
UiMM  of  Oie  f»rc.  If  it  brim  of  the  hat  should  not  repeat  these 
il  H!!'™^*?.  ^ .  *^''*'  ^^  (Fig-  112).  Again,  if  the  eyes  slant 
be  bant  an  dwirt^d,  ^P  toward  the  outer  comer,  a  hat  with 
but  tlM  crown  should  an  abrupt  upward  curve  of  the  brim 
Sbc  1^.  '****'^'^  ""  should  not  l>e  worn.  The  effect  may 
be  neutralized  by  the  use  of  opposing 

lines.    The  opposition,  however,  must  not  be  carried  too  far, 

because  entire  lack  of  hamiony  in  line  wiU  produce  the  same 

effect  as  does  strong  parallelLsni  of  line.  _ 

A  person  with  a  square  face  needs  an 

irregular  brim,  liecaui^  a  straight  brim 

only  emphasizes  by  contrast  the  angles 

of  the  face.    A  round  face  or  one  of 

regular  features  requires  the  opposite 

treatment   from   the   square    face.     A 

severe,    straight    lirim   or    upstanding 

crown  may  be  worn  in  this  case.    An 

oval  face  needs  a  curved,  irregular  line* 

Rather  long  curves  are  most  suitable. 
In  order   to   be  practicable,    these 

auggestions   necessitate  that   the  hair 

be  arranged  to  suit  the  face.    Moreover,  when  buying  a  hat, 

one  should  be  sure  that  it  does  not  require  a  special  arrange- 


Fro.  111. — Correct  placinc 
of  9.  tiirban  abowa  by 
th<?  hcmvy  Urn?. 


MILUNBHY 


397 


ment  of  the  hair  to  suit  it;  the  hat  should  suit  the  customary 
arraogement  of  the  hair,  A  softening  line  of  hair  shouUI 
always  come  between  the  harsh  edpe  of  the  hat  and  the  fore- 
head. From  time  to  time  extreme  forms  of  hair-drassing  come 
into  vogue.  A  beautiful  face  may  or  may  not  l>e  affected  by 
them,  but  the  peculiar  types  must  avoid  extremes  in  shape, 
whether  in  area  or  contour.    Neither  the  round  nor  the  narrow 


Fro.  1 12.^ — The?  outline  or  decoration  of  a  liat  should 
not  re jieutt  or  parallel  iindesirttble  lines  in  th<*  fiife. 
vSimilarity  t»f  line  may  ftccetituatc  cither  good  or 
bad  lines. 

face  should  have  the  hair  drawn  back  from  the  temples.  The 
long  oval  he^d  needs  to  have  the  hair  done  low  in  the  back, 
while  the  person  with  a  round  face  may  wear  the  hair  liigh. 

At  its  best,  the  hair  grows  around  the  face  in  a  graceful  line; 
but  when  this  line  is  not  attractive,  the  hair  may  be  arranged  t^ 
supply  the  deficiency.  There  is  a  legitimate  use  for  false  hair, 
if  it  serves  to  l>eautify  the  proportions  and  the  contour  of  the 
head  or  to  create  fine  surfaces,  such  as  soft  waving  effect*;.  Any 
arrangement  of  the  hair  that  does  not  tend  to  augment  the  at- 
tractiveness of  the  face,  such  as  extreme  changes  of  contour^ 
or  fussy,  kinky  eflfecte,  Is  poor  design  and  is  in  bad  taste.  For 
short,  broad  facets,  Ijoth  round  and  square,  the  form  as  a  whole 
should  be  built  high,  as  against  wide,  in  shape.    The  hair  should 


308  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


not  be  pressed  close  to  the  temples.  The  hair  should  not 
brought  low  but  should  be  kept  away  from  the  forehea^l  except  at 
the  corners  where  the  short  olilique  lines  suggest  softness  of  con- 
tour against  the  face.  The  square-faced  person  needs  rounding 
contours  in  the  hair-di'esaing;  the  round  face  nc<*ds  crisp  reverse 
curves  in  contour  to  coonteract  the  round  suggestions  elsewhere. 

For  long,  thin  faces »  the  hair  should  Ije  arranged  to  make  the 
head  appear  as  broad  as  possible,  care  being  taken  not  to  create 
too  great  a  contrast,  however,  between  the  width  of  the  hair 
and  of  the  face,  lest  the  hair  serve  merely  as  a  frame  to  em- 
phasize, rather  than  correct »  the  narrowness.  The  hair  should 
be  broyght  low  \yoth  horizontally  and  obliquely.  The  space  left 
between  the  oblique  side  lines^  however,  should  not  l>e  too  nar- 
row. This  would  only  emphasize  the  length  of  the  face  by  in- 
troducing a  long  vertical  line.  The  hair  should  never  be  piled 
liigh  over  a  long,  thin  face. 

The  face  that  is  more  or  less  triangular  needs  the  same  treat- 
ment as  the  square  face.  This  type  should  avoid  oblique  lines 
that  are  produced  l>y  parting  the  hair  in  the  middle,  Ijecause 
this  repeats  in  exaggerated  form  the  lower  shape  of  the  face* 
The  head  should  not  be  unduly  broadened  in  such  a  way  as  to 
create  an  extreme  triangular  shape. 

Color. 

Color  is  discussed  on  pages  45  to  47.  It  may  be  said  here> 
however,  that  in  selecting  a  hat  one  should  l>e  sure  that  it  is  in 
harmony  with  the  other  outer  gamients  with  which  it  is  to  he 
worn,  In  general,  if  the  costume  is  striking  in  color,  a  hat  of 
neutral  tone,  especially  white  or  black,  furnishes  a  desirable 
contrast;  while  if  the  costume  is  somt»er,  a  bright  touch  of 
color  in  the  hat  is  most  interesting.  A  hat  is  s<»ldom  satisfac- 
iiiry  when  it  is  of  the  same  color,  value,  and  texture  as  the  cos- 
tume.  A  contrast  in  value^  if  not  in  color,  is  always  to  be  desired. 

Tnmming. 

The  foregoing  discussion  of  the  principles  of  design  applies 
also  to  the  trimming  of  hats.    The  following  sugg^tiuns  apply 


be  I 


I 


I 


A 


MILLINERY 

to  that  considered  in  relfition  tu  th(?  entire  costume  and  the 
wearer,  not  as  an  isolated  article  of  clothing. 

The  function  of  trimming,  in  addition  to  its  decorative  value, 
is  to  effect  sHght  changes  that  may  add  to  the  beconiingDess 
of  hats,    Triinining  should 
aid    in    emphasizing    the        ^* 
gCMxl    points  of   the  face 
and    hair    of   the   wearer 
and  should   mitigate  any 
unfortunate  elements.    By 
the  addition  of  a  bow,  a 
feather,    or    other    orna- 
ment, the  hnes  of  a  hat 
may     Ixi     cliangal     and 
adapted  to  the  wearer. 

Trimming  should  be  so 
placed  that  it  gives  the 
impression  of  being  rightly 
distributed.  Color  must 
be  reckoned  with  when 
balance  is  being  con- 
sidered: a  small  bit  of  in- 
tense color  may  balance  a 
larger  mass  of  a  more 
Bubdued  color.  The  pre- 
vailing fashion  may  pre- 
sent difficulties,  but  no 
fashion  should  undermine 
good  jutigment. 

There  should  be  one 
general  direction  of  line 
and  a  center  of  interest  to  which  all  trimming  should  appear  to 
converge  or  to  Ire  suliordinatc  (Fig.  113).  Cross  Hues  in  trim- 
ming should  i>e  avoided.  More  than  one  [joint  of  interest,  unless 
these  points  are  perfectly  balanced »  produces  a  confused  appear- 
ance and  causes  the  eye  to  jump  from  one  spot  to  another.  The 
center  of  interest  in  the  trimming  should  not  be  so  conspicuous 


Fig.  113. — The  decoration  Bhoiiid  atrenffthen 
the  Btmctuml  Jinra  of  tht?  hat.  There 
should  be  but  one  cPutfT  of  iuterr^st  aod 
all  decomtioii  should  tippear  to  <!onvergo 
t«  that  poiot  (A  and  /?).  Somp  win- 
trast  in  line  is  always  interestinR  (B). 
Thtt  rin^iportion  of  space  covered  by  the 
decoration  should  have  an  interpisting 
relfttioD  to  the  uncovered  surface  {B 
and  C). 


400  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKISG 

m  color  or  mwt  as  to  detract  from  the  face,  which  alto*  all  is  the 
picture  for  which  the  hat  serv^es  as  the  frame. 

If  the  hat  m  too  heavily  tnmmed  in  the  back,  there  is  a  tend- 
ency \jo  fiend  the  head  and  shoulders  forward  in  an  effort  to 
balance  the  trunming.  If  it  Ls  too  heavily  trimmed  in  front, 
it  gives  the  undesirable  appearance  of  pitching  forward,  or 
creates  a  tendency  to  place  the  hat  too  far  back  on  the  head. 
This  lit  likely  to  make  the  most  graceful  line  unbecoming  and 
db(turf)«  the  balance  of  the  figure.  Hati^  with  the  bulk  of  the 
trimming  at  one  side  may  appear  to  be  burdensome. 

RENOVATING   HATEEUALS 

When  looking  over  an  old  stockof  hats,  the  home  worker  6nd0 
that  briniH  change  in  shape  more  slowly  than  do  crowns.  Crowoa 
may  often  he  remodeled,  however,  by  the  use  of  ribbon  or  silk. 
Trimming  may  j^ometime-s  Ix*  so  placed  that  it  changes  the  line 
of  the  crown  and  gives  the  effect  of  a  different  shape.  Good  mi^ 
teriald  should  never  be  thrown  away. 

Storing, 

At  the  end  of  each  season  when  hats  are  to  be  stored  for  an- 
other season,  they  should  be  examined  carefully.  Hats  to  b© 
used  in  the  same  way  at  another  time  should  be  well  dusted  and 
s(x>ts  that  might  tempt  moths  should  be  removed  (page  283)* 
The  hats  should  be  wrapped  carefully. 

If  the  hflt  is  act  to  l>e  used  in  its  original  shape  again,  it 
8hf>ij!tl  1h»  ripped  apart.  Any  wire  should  be  rolled  and  ribbons 
and  velvet  cleant^.  All  rovered  wire  should  ije  saved,  since 
it  is  not  always  easy  to  obtain  a  piece  of  wire  when  needed* 
If  millinery  material  is  cleaned  and  rolled  instead  of  folded  it 
may  offer  a  much  greater  suggestion  for  remodeling  than  when 
it  is  soiled  and  crushed. 

The  frame  nuiterial  is  not  often  good  enough  to  be  used  agaiiit 
but  if  it  is  in  fair  condition  it  may  be  improved  by  dampen- 
ing and  it^pressing.  Good  pieces  may  Ije  saved  for  making 
buckles,  backs  for  ribbon  decorations,  or  for  piecing  out  another 
frame. 


I 

I 
I 


MILLINERY 


401 


good'^ 


^B    Staws, 

If  straw  braid  on  a  hat  is  fatle^l,  the  hat  may  be  ripped  ap 
and  the  braid  dyed  and  sewed  into  a  new  sliape.  Several 
eolor  hquids  that  dye  the  straw  instantly  and  finish  it  in  one 
operation  are  now  on  the  market.  Sometimes  an  old  hat  that 
has  faded  and  lost  its  stiffnes^s  may  be  freshened  for  another 
sea'ion  with  a  coating  of  color  liquid.  Brushing  with  alcohol 
will  oft^n  brighten  a  black  straw  hat. 

A  straw  hat  may  be  bleached  by  being  exposed  in  a  clased 
rhamber  to  the  fumes  of  burning  sulfur.  An  old  flour  barrel 
is  often  used  for  this  purpose  by  milh'ners.  The  sulfur  is 
ignited  on  a  fire  shovel  or  a  metal  dish  placed  on  the  grountL 
The  hat,  which  has  Ixnini  sponged  well  in  water,  is  hung  in  the 
barrel,  and  the  barrel  is  turned  over  the  burning  sulfm*  for 
a  few  hours. 

To  clean  leghorns,  panama^,  iiiilans,  an*!  other  lin(^  straws^ 
a  solution  of  oxalic  acid  may  Ix^  used  in  the  prtjportion  of  one 
teaspoon  of  oxalic  acid  to  one  pint  of  water.  The  straw  should  be 
brushed  thoroughly  and  rinsed  immediately  in  clear  hot  water. 
As  much  moisture  as  possible  should  be  wiped  off,  and  the  hat 
hung  to  dry  in  the  heat  or  fresh  air.  When  it  is  nearly  dr>'', 
it  should  be  pressed  in  shape  with  a  hot  iron,  muslin  lieing  placed 
l>etw^een  the  iron  and  the  hat.  If  a  mushroom  shajx^  is  desired, 
the  hat  should  be  held  with  the  erown  up  during  the  pressing, 
and  the  brim  should  be  stretched  slightly  while  being  pressed, 
bit  by  bit.  If  a  flat  brim  is  desired,  the  hat  should  be  pressed 
flat  on  the  edge  of  a  table^  the  crown  being  allowed  to  come 
below  the  table  top.  Afterwards  it  should  be  laid  flat  on  the 
table,  weights  should  be  place*!  on  the  brim,  and  it  should  be  left 
until  it  is  ixirfectly  dry.  Crowns  should  l.>e  presstKl  with  a  small 
iron  on  the  inside.  A  sleeve-board  Ls  very  convenient  for  thLs 
pressing.  A  white  straw^  that  has  been  sun-burned  may  be 
made  yellow  by  being  placed  for  a  few^  moments  in  a  strong  solu- 
tion of  soda  and  water.  The  hat  should  then  l>e  shaken  to 
remove  the  water  and  pressed  under  a  thin  cloth  until  it  in 
dry. 


402 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Flawer$. 

Ftowcni  may  be  trimmed  along  the  edges  and  retouched  witT 
water  color  paints  or  oil  paints  mixed  with  gar^litie.  Flowers 
made  of  silkr  muslin,  sateen,  or  velvet  can  be  freshened  by  being 
shaken  gently  over  a  steaming  cloth. 


Ribbons, 

Ribbons  may  be  cleaned  with  gasoline  or  washed  with  soap 
and  water.  If  they  are  to  be  washed,  they  should  be  stretched 
cm  a  clean  table,  scrubbed  with  a  soft  brush  dipped  in  neutrid 
soapsuds  and  rinsed  in  clear  water.  In  the  rinsing,  the  ribbon 
should  be  kept  smooth  and  straight,  and  the  water  should  be 
pressed  out  by  running  tlic  hand  down  the  ribbon.  The  ribbon 
should  then  h>e  stretched  on  the  table  again  and  allowed  to  dr>% 
RibbouH  washed  in  this  way  need  only  a  slight  pressing  with 
warm  irom 


Velvet. 

Velvet  may  be  cleaned  by  being  sprinkled  thoroughly  with 
magnesia  or  commeal  and  allowed  to  stand  for  twenty-four 
lioLirs,  It  should  then  be  brushed  with  a  soft  brush.  A  second 
application  of  the  cleaning  agent  may  be  necessary. 

Another  way  of  cleaning  velvet  is  to  steam  it.  This  also  re- 
moves any  folds.  A  hot  iron  is  plaet^d  so  that  it  rests  on  the 
handle,  and  live  base  is  covered  with  a  wet  cloth.  The  velvet 
is  then  pfissed  over  the  iron^  the  wrong  side  of  it  being  held  nesct 
the  wet  clotli.  In  this  way  the  steam  is  forced  up  through  the 
pile.  As  the  steam  is  passing  through,  the  velvet  should  be 
brushed  gently  with  a  soft  brush. 

Laces. 

Laces  should  be  washed  according  to  the  directions  given  on 
page  272.  Ecru  hire  may  be  washed  in  the  same  way  as  white 
lace,  but  it  should  be  rinsed  in  a  weak  infusion  of  tea  or  coffee, 
(lold  or  silver  lace  may  be  freshened  by  brushing  it  with  alco- 
hol or  gasoline. 


be 
on    H 

J 


MILLINERY 


403 


Feathers, 

Feathers  may  be  washed  satisfactorily  in  a  good  suds  of 
white  soap  and  water.  The  feather  should  l?e  drawn  through  the 
hand  from  the  stem  to  the  tip  with  a  regular  stroke.  It  should 
then  be  tlried  by  shaking  it  in  tlie  air.  Before  being  curled,  it 
should  be  steamed  by  being  hekl  with  the  back  toward  the 
steam  from  the  spout  of  a  teakettle.  The  feather  should  not 
be  allowed  to  become  wet.  While  it  is  damp,  the  stem  may  te 
shaped  in  any  desired  way.  The  feather  should  be  held  with  the 
right  side  up.  It  is  then  curled  by  having  three  or  four  fibers 
at  a  time  drawn  over  a  dull  knife,  with  a  cpiick  downward  and 
inward  curving  stroke.  Work  should  progress  from  the  large 
end  toward  the  tip. 

Veils, 

Veils  may  be  washed  in  wann  soapsuds  in  the  same  way  as 
laces  are  washed.  Black  veils  should  be  rinsed  finally  in  a  strong 
infusion  of  black  tea  to  which  gum  arabic  luts  been  ailded  in  the 
prt)portiou  of  two  teaspoons  of  powdereil  gum  arabic  to  one 
pint  of  water.  Veils  should  be  stretched  in  shape,  pinned,  and 
dried. 


Chiffon. 

Chiffon  shoukl  be  washed  in  a  light  suds  in  lukewarm  water. 
It  should  not  be  rul>l)€^d,  but  shaken  and  squeezed  lightly  in  the 
suds.  It  should  be  stretched  to  dry,  and  when  nearly  dry  should 
be  pressed  with  a  warm  iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

Chiffon  may  also  be  washed  in  pure  alcohol  and  stretched  to 
dry. 

White  felL 

A  white  felt  hat  can  be  cleaned  satisfactorily  with  cornmeal 
or  magnesia.  The  liat  is  covercnl  with  the  suVistance,  and  left 
for  two  days.  The  meal  or  powder  is  then  l)rushed  off.  It 
may  l>e  necessarj^  to  re|xy^ifc  this  process. 

Art  gum  removes  spots  that  are  not  of  long  standing. 


4(M 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


i 


SIMPLE   HANDMADE  TRLMMINOS 

The  ability  to  trim  a  hat  artistically  is  a  gift.  The  placing  of 
trimming  should  be  practiced  before  a  mirror  and  the  general 
principies  of  dc^sign  thus  studied.  Ideas  may  always  be  ob- 
tainetl  from  magazines.  Pleasing  color  combinations  in  pic- 
tures and  in  nature  are  often  the  origin  of  good  effects  ini 


Fio.  114, — Hjmple  deocmitiotui  poaaiblc  in 
»trtiw  trimming. 


Flo.  116, — Simple  use  of  ribbon  to 
derontto  or  chanjcv  a  omwQ 
sUithtb'.  Thr  ribbon  m^  b© 
held  in  plac©  by  a  ba«ttiiK  vtilch 
of  wonrtod  or  silk  thread  id  a 
cootrasting  color.  j 


hat^  and  costumes*    Examples  of  simple  hats  are  shown  in 
Plate  XV, 

Trimming  should  always  be  sewed  with  as  few  stitches  as 
possible  in  order  to  avoid  a  stiff  appearance.  Large  pins  can 
often  l>e  used  to  ^Ivantage.  Milliners'  glue  may  be  used  in- 
st/cad  of  stitches  for  holding  the  fabrics  of  trimmings  in 
place. 


vet .  I 


Buckles, 

Effective  linckles  can  \w  made  by  first  cutting  a  shape^ 
buckram  and  c(>vering  it  with  shirred  ribbon,  silk,  or  velv 
T'hi^  huckles  nuiy  l>o  padded  slightly  with  sheet  wadding 
and  wound  with  a  lacquered  braid.  Two  such  buckles  may 
be  placed  back  to  back,  inclosing  the  edge  of  a  plaited 
ribbon. 


MILLINERY 


40$^ 


Lace  straw. 

Lace  straw  may  Ik*  plaited  and  hcwckI  to  the  edge  of  a  .straip;ht 
strip  for  trimming  {Fig,  114).  The  edge  of  lace  straw  may  tx? 
drawn  up  to  make  a  series  of  loops  (Fig.  114). 

Ribbons, 

There  is  a  wide  range  in  the  variety  of  ribbons.  Vegetable 
silk  ribbons  are  very  natisfactory,  because  they  hold  their  color 
better  than  do  those  made  of  real  silk,  and  they  keep  their  shai>e 

A 


L 


XJ 


Fio.  116.— Stitchea  for  folds»  for  sciwinj? 
down  fftcinga,  a  oil  for  deouratioiK 
A,  catch  stitch;  J9,  lacing  stitch' 
^,  Baddler'ti  slitcli. 

better.    They  are  woven  as  a  heavy  grosgi'ain  ribbon  or  with 
long,  overshot  threads. 

The  whole  ci"own  may  bfe  covered  with  horizontal  rows  of 
ribbon,  or  vertical  rows  may  axtend  from  the  tip  of  the  crown 
to  the  brhii  (Fig.  115). 

Folds. 

Folds  made  of  velvet  have  many  uses.  They  are  more  easily 
manipulated  if  made  on  the  true  bias  than  with  the  grain  of  the 
material  For  the  simple  milliner's  fold  (Fiiaj.  116),  the  velvet 
is  cut  twice  the  desired  width  of  the  finished  fold.  The  raw 
edges  are  brought  together  and  held  with  a  saddler^s  stitch  or 


406 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


a  catch-stitch.     The  stitches  should  not  be  drawn  so  tight  that 
they  will  show  on  the  riRht  side. 

The  French  fold  (Fig,  117)  is  slightly  more  decorative  than 
the  milliner'8  fold.  A  strip  b  cut  three  times  as  wide  as  the 
finished  width.    One-third  of  the  strip  is  folded  up  to  the  wrong 


Fio,  117. — Frenrh  fold,  used  for  decoration 
around  crawns  tuid  brims 

mde.  The  other  edp;e  is  folded  in  and  brought  down  to  meet 
first  edge.  The  strip  is  then  folded  once  more  on  the  hne  where 
the  two  edges  meet.  It  is  sewed  in  place  with  a  slip-stiteh. 
Care  must  be  taken  not  to  pull  the  thread  so  close  that  a  dent 
is  made  in  the  edge  of  the  velvet. 

The  fold  must  l>e  kept  even.  A  stitch  taken  through  the  fold 
will  cause  it  to  twist.  MeawurcH  for  tlie  length  of  folds  are  taken 
in  the  same  way  as  for  bindings,  in  order  that  the  joining  may 
be  made  first* 

Bows, 

In  general  a  bow  is  much  more  effective  when  tied  than  when 
cut  and  sewed.  In  making  bows,  one  should  alwa>^  work  from 
side  to  side,  and  should  always  liring  the  end  of  the  ribbon 
through  the  knot  in  the  dii-eetion  in  which  the  end  was  1; 
before  the  knot  was  made. 


I 


Referexces 
Hammond,  Edith  Gary.    IndualriaJ  DrawinR  for  Girls. 
Y(k9uf,  Anna  Ben.    The  Art  of  Maline^>^    1909. 


iai2. 


L 


PART  IV 
FOODS  AND  NUTRITION 

CHAPTER  XVII 

PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 

By  Flora  Rose 

Any  person  who  has  to  choose  the  food  that  he  is  to  eat  him- 
self or  that  is  to  nourish  others  should  know  at  lea,st  a  few  ssimple 
principles  of  food  setection.  Food  i,s  to<j  important  in  hmiian 
welfare  to  be  chosen  in  a  hapha^ai-d  way.  Fortunately,  recent 
scientific  work  on  foods  has  done  much  to  make  it  comparatively 
eas>^  to  acqiiirc  at  least  a  practical  simple  working  knowledge 
of  food  values* 

The  daily  meals  must  supply  three  things: 

1.  Fuel.  The  body  must  be  kept  warm,  and  it  must  have 
some  source  of  energ^^  for  the  work  which  it  must  do.  The 
greater  the  amount  of  work  which  the  body  has  to  tlo,  the  greater 
is  its  need  for  fuel  If  the  food  does  not  supply  sufficient  fuel 
to  do  the  work  of  the  body,  some  of  the  body's  tissue  will  be 
burned  as  fuel  If  too  much  fuel  food  is  eaten ^  the  body  may 
store  some  as  fat  or  it  may  become  upset  hy  it. 

2.  Building  materials.  All  the  tissues  of  the  body — muscles, 
nerves,  bones^  blood-cells— must  receive  a  constant  supply  of 
those  substances  from  which  they  ai'e  built.  Children  cannot 
grow  without  a  liberal  supply  of  building  materials,  and  the 
tissues  of  grown  persons  will  deteriorate  if  they  are  not  furnished 
with  sufficient  building  material  to  keep  them  in  good  repair » 

3*  Body  regulating  substances.  The  body  not  only  needs 
fuel  and  building:  material,  but  it  must  also  be  supplied  with 
substances  which  regulate  its  various  activities  and  keep  its 

407 


I 

I 


L 


MANUAL 


HOME-MAKING 


W 


niaehinery  ld  good  running  order.  These  regulating  substances 
are  ueros^ary  to  make  the  fuel  burn  normally,  to  help  set  the 
building  n^aterials  in  plaee,  to  aid  in  elinunating  the  wastes  of 
the  Ijody,  to  enalile  the  iMirly  to  grow,  and  to  keep  its  machinery 
running  at  all.  If  no  foods  were  inchuhHl  to  supply  hody- 
regulating  substances  in  the  daily  meals,  the  body  would  ^oon 
become  damaged. 


GOOD    FOODS   FOR   SUPPLTOSTG    THK   BODY  S  NEEDS 

To  supply  these  three  needs  of  the  body,,  diiferenl  foods  a™ 
necessaiy.  The  housewife  should  know  the  function  of  the 
various  food  materials  in  order  to  make  up  a  balanced  and 
healthful  ration. 

Fuel  foods 
Foods  rich  in  starch. 

These  foods  should  supply  most  of  the  body^s  energy,  becauw 
starch  is  the  cheapest  and  most  abundant  of  all  fuel  foods,  and 
furthermore  the  botly  can  use  more  of  this  fuel  than  any  other 
without  danger  of  injury.  All  the  starch  eut-en  is  changed  to  a 
form  of  sugar  called  glucose,  before  it  reaches  the  blood  stream. 
This  change  occurs  slowly,  and  under  normal  condition  the 
^^  machinery  of  the  Imdy  is  amply  al>le  to  liandle  and  transport  to 
^m  the  tissues  the  small  amounts  of  sugar  produced  at  any  one  time. 
^M  The  starch-rich  foods  are:  Cereals  and  cereal  foods  of  various 
^P  kinds,  such  as  breakfast  foods — oatmeal,  cornmeal,  wheat*  rice, 
p  rye,  barley — and  breads;  macaroni,  tapioca,  and  otfier  manu- 

^^     factured  foods;  legumes,  such  as  dried  peas,  l)eans»  and  lentils; 
^m     vegetables  rich  in  starchy  such  as  the  potato  and  the  dasheen. 

^H        Foods  rich  in  fat. 

^Bl^  Thi^e  foods  should  supply  a  part  of  the  day's  energy.  Fat 
^^■^fcenis  to  be  necessary  for  two  reasons:  because  it  helps  to  regu- 
late the  rate  at  which  food  passes  along  the  digestive  tract; 
and  because  certain  fats  are  carriers  of  a  body-regulating  sub- 
stance necessar}^  for  growth.  Children  particularly  need  this 
type  of  fat. 
Fat-rich  foods  which  carry  growth-promoting  substances  are: 


he  ■ 


I 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


409 


milk,  crenm,  butter,  eggs,  cod-liver  oil,  meat  fat,  to  a  certain 
extent,  and  fat  in  soybeans. 

Other  fat-rieh  foods  are:  bacon,  lard,  drippings,  fat  meats, 
vegetable  oils  or  food  rich  in  oils. 

Foofh  tick  in  migar. 

Foods  containing  much  sugar  may  furnish  a  part  of  the  day^s 
energ}'.  Sugar  as  such  is  not  an  altogether  necessary  food, 
though  it  is  very  desirable  because  it  adds  palatability  to  the 
day's  meals  and  it  is  a  quick  fuel.  It  is  not  entirely  necessary, 
since  all  the  starch  eaten  is  gradually  changed  to  a  form  of 
sugar,  glucose,  before  it  reaches  the  blood.  Large  quantities 
of  sugar  eaten  at  one  time  may  seriously  damage  the  body, 
since  its  machiner>'  is  not  adequate  to  care  for  large  amounts 
at  one  time.  Little  children  receive  all  the  sugar  that  is  neces- 
saiy  for  them  if  tli(*y  have  a  quart  of  milk  a  day.  If  more 
sugar  than  is  contained  in  one  quart  of  milk  is  used,  it  should 
be  diluted  with  other  foods  and  should  not  he  used  as  candy 
except  oc(^Msionally  as  a  dessert.  Large  ciuantities  of  sugar  may 
be  injmious  botli  to  adults  and  to  children.  Foods  containing 
sugar  are  more  wholesome  than  sugar  eis  such. 

Foods  rich  in  sugar  are:  milk,  sweet  fruits  and  vegetables, 
honey,  molasses,  sirups,  sugar  as  such,  preserves,  desserts,  candy. 

Foods  rich  in  protein. 

Protein  foods  must  alwa>^  furnLsh  a  part  of  the  day's  energy, 
from  10  to  15  i>er  cent,  not  because  the  protein  is  needed  for  the 
energ>^  which  it  furnishes  but  because  it  has  value  as  building 
material  for  the  body.  The  energy  which  it  gives  is  a  by- 
product. Although  protein  gives  energy,  it  should  not  lie  used 
as  a  main  source  of  fuel,  since  it  is  more  scarce  and^  therefore, 
more  expensive  than  other  fuels,  and  large  amounts  may  over- 
tax the  powers  of  t he  Itody  to  care  for  it. 

BuihUng  fifods 
There  are  many  building  materials  needed  by  the  body. 
Four  of  these*  play  most  conspicuous  parts  and  should  l>e  con- 
sidered in  planning  the  day's  meals. 


I 


410  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

Protein, 

Protein  is  a  name  given  to  a  large  variety  of  substances  in 
foods.  Casein  in  milk,  albumin  in  egg,  milk,  and  meat,  ^uten 
in  wheat,  are  illui^tratiotiy  of  types  of  protein.  Protein  is  a  sub- 
stance necessary  to  tJie  building  of  all  jiving  parts  of  the  body, 

AH  proteins  have  not  the  same  value.  Some  are  much  in- 
ferior to  others  as  tissue  builderj^,  and  in  some  foods  the  pro- 
teiuH  are  of  such  jwor  quality  that  they  cannot  build  tissue  until 
a  food  containing  a  better  quality  of  protein  is  combined  with 
them. 

Some  of  the  day's  protein  should  ^k*  supplied  by  animal  foods^ 
an  thes(*  contain  1  he  Ix'-st  quality  of  protein.  Animal  foods  used 
for  their  protein  may  replace  one  another  and  will  supplement 
the  poor  quality  of  less  valual>le  protein  foods.  Animal  foods 
that  are  valuable  sources  of  protein  are  milk,  eggs,  cheese,  and 
meat. 

Much  of  the  remainder  of  the  protein  may  be  supphed  by  cer- 
tain plant  foods-  None  of  the  foods  here  listed,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  soyl>ean  and  the  peanut »  may  be  regarded  as  com- 
plete substitutes  for  an  animal  food,  since  they  contain  an 
inferior  ciiiality  of  protein.  Some  animal  food  should  be  used 
with  them  to  improve  the  quality  of  their  protein.  Plant 
foods  that  may  be  used  to  supply  part,  of  the  day's  protein  arc: 
cereals  of  various  kinds,  such  as  breakfast  foods,  breads,  mac- 
aroni; legumes,  such  as  dricnj  jx^as^  beans,  and  lentils j  and 
nuts, 

A  part  of  the  day's  protein  should  Ije  supplied  l>y' fruits  an  J 
vegetaliles.  The  quantity  of  the  protein  supplied  by  vegetables 
is  small,  but  it  helps  to  improve  the  quality  of  proteins  from 
plant  foods  mentioned  above. 

Lime. 

Lime  is  a  necessary  building  material.    Many  dietaries  are 

low  in  this  substance.  If  i(  is  not  supplicnl  in  sufficient  amounts^ 
the  tK>ny  si  met  ores  of  the  body  sufTer  and  llit»  welfai-e  of  other 
tissue*  is  also  interfered  with.  It  is  [xissible  that  the  ban! 
wiUiT  of  many  localities  helps  to  protect  the  body  against 


I 


1 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


nutritive  disaster  of  a  lime-poor  tliot»  TJiis  hhouki  not  iw. 
depended  on,  however^  Many  children,  and  adults  also^  suffer 
from  poor  teeth  lH»eause  of  ti  lack  of  lime  in  the  diet. 

Tlie  most  valuable  lime  foods  are:  milk,  the  cheapest  lime 
food  (a  ghtss  of  milk  contains  more  lime  than  a  glas«  of  saturated 
solution  of  lime);  cheese;  and  eggs. 

Next  in  hme  value  are  leaves  and  stems  of  plants,  such  as 
spinach,  Swiss  chard,  lettuce,  celery,  onions,  cabbage.  The  dis- 
advantage of  using  these  latter  foods  as  a  main  source  of  lime 
is  that  they  are  loo  bulky  to  be  eaten  in  the  needed  amounts. 

Iron. 

Iron  is  a  necessary  building  materiah  An  iron-poor  diet 
means  a  poor  quality  of  blood,  weakened  tissues,  and  a  run- 
down body.     Many  tlietarics  are  poor  in  iron. 

The  most  valuable  iron  foods  are:  green  vegetables,  the  most 
valuable  .source;  fruits  and  vegetables  in  general;  breakfast 
foods  and  breads  made  from  meals  whicii  include  the  whole 
cereal  grain,  the  cheapest  source;  eggs»  which  are  excellent  but 
expensive;  meat,  ricli  in  iron,  but  the  value  of  its  iron  has  !>een 
questioned. 

Phoj^phorus, 

Phosphorus  is  a  neceasary  building  materia!.  If  enough 
animal  food,  whole  cereal  grains,  and  legumes  are  used  in  the 
dietary,  it  will  not  lack  phosphorus. 

Foods  that  are  best  to  supply  phosphorus  are:  milk,  eggs, 
meatj  breakfast  foods  and  bread  made  from  the  whole  grain, 
dried  peas,  beans,  and  lentils. 

Regulating  foods 

Just  as  much  attention  shoiUd  be  paid  to  selecting  body- 
regulating  foods  as  to  fuel  antl  building  foinis.  Fortunately 
there  is  an  overlapping  of  all  three  of  these  necnls,  and  a  single 
food  often  supphes  several. 

Regulating  foods  should  he  selected  from  each  of  the  follow- 
ing groups:  Foods  containing  laxative  substances,  as  fruits  antl 
vegetables,  breakfast  foods  and  breads  made  from  the  whole 


I 


I 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKLVG 


412 


grain;  foods  containing  neecle<]  salt^,  acids  or  flavors,  as  (jvitn 
and  vegetables;  CockKh  contairiinK  two  unknown  fju'tors^  whiiTh 
have  l>een  <*ulled  vitmuiijes  tuul  grimtli-finnnuliNg  factors, 
l>oth  of  which  are  nccesHiiry  for  hettllh  and  for  growth, 

Gfowih-pronioiing  factors 

The  first  unknown  factor,  or  \itaniine,  essential  for  growfl 
and  health,  often  called  the  fat-soluble  growth-promoting  sul>- 
stancei  is  found,  in  amounts  sufficient  for  human  needs,  dis- 
solved in  the  fat  of  certain  foods  such  oh  milk,  flutter,  cream, 
eggs,  meat  (if  enough  of  it  is  eaten),  cod-liver  oil,  8oyt>eans,  The 
following  foods  contain  this  unknown  substance,  or  vitamine, 
in  amounts  which  will  help;  they  are  too  bulky  to  be  used  a^  it^ 
main  source  by  the  human  being,  but  as  a  class  they  are  the 
main  source  of  this  important  substance  in  tlie  diet  of  mont  of 
the  flomestic  animals:  leaves  and  stems  of  plants,  such  as  spin- 
ach, Swiss  chard,  dandelion  greens,  calilmge,  onion,  celery. 

The  second  unknown  factor,  or  vitamine,  e.ssential  for  health 
and  growth  is  soluble  irj  water  and  is  found  in  amountj^  suJficient 
for  human  needs  in  milk,  eggs,  breakfast  foods  and  breads  made 
from  the  whole  cereal  grain,  pea^s,  Ix^ans,  und  lentils.  In  fact, 
this  sufjstance  is  fourul  in  practically  all  naturally  occurring 
foods.  It  is  often  called  the  water-i^loble  growth-promoting 
substance. 


HOW  TO   ESTIMATE  THE   DAILY   NEED   OF  FUEL 

It  is  not  possible  in  any  simple  way  to  estimate  the  tlaily  fuel 
need  with  entire  accuracy.  The  approximate  fuel  need  may  be 
easily  estimated,  however,  T«>  do  tliis,  it  Is  necessary'  to  have 
some  understanding  of  the  unit  w^iicli  mea.sures  the  energy 
value  of  foods.  Many  miits  of  measure  ate  familiar  to  the 
average  person:  the  ounce  and  pound  a^  units  of  weight,  th« 
pint  and  quart  as  units  of  volume,  the  inch  and  foot  and  yard 
as  units  of  distance,  the  degree  as  a  unit  of  temperature.  Tbe^e 
units  are  used  again  and  again  until  the  mind  rememlx^rs  the 
approximate  amount^?!  they  measure.  The  same  must  be  true 
of  the  unit  of  measure  for  the  fuel  value  of  foo<ls.    It  is  a  ba^is 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS  413 

by  whicli  one  may  compare  oiu*  food  with  another  and  with 
which  one  may  measure  the  inilividual  fuel  needs. 

The  imit  of  measure  for  the  fuel  vahje  of  fowls  is  the  calorie. 
If  a  given  portion  of  fcxxl  hjLs  a  fuel  vahie  of  1(K)  ealories  and  in  a 
day  2,tX)0  calories  are  needrNl,  one  immeriiately  begins  to  ap- 
praise the  fuel  value  of  that  food.  For  all  praetieal  purposes  the 
following  tal)les  are  very  serviceable  in  giving  an  approximate 
estimate  of  daily  fuel  needs. 

The  average  adult  person  sfx^nds  a!x)ut  the  following  amounts 
of  energy  under  stated  conditions: 

Aslee;! .  J  2   falorio   an   hour  for  each 

,  pound  of  horjy  woiRhl 

Sitting  (reacUtig,  sewing,  kuitllug) ,  ,   3/5  cnloric  an  hour  fur  each 

pound  of  tiody  woight 

Standing. %   calorir*  an   hour  for   each 

jwund  of  Ijody  weight 
Light  exercise   (dish-wasliiii^,   cooking  for 
small  family,  !>i'<l-making,  sewing  t>3'  foot 
power,  walking  at  moderate  pace  on  level 

roacl)  ..*..,..... 1    calorie    im    hour    for    each 

pound  of  body  weight 
Moderate  exerciH©  (cooking  for  large  family, 
sweeping,    ironing^    scnibbing   by    hand, 
work  of  earpentiTH,  meat  riirverM,  house 

workers) _  .    n<4  to  1  '2  calories  an  hour  for 

each  pound  of  body  weight 
Active  exercise  (cooking  for  large  grtMif>s, 
ironing  and  8cruhl>iiiR  witfi  heavy  imple^ 
ments,  work  of  farmers,  masons,  black- 

Hinitlis) , , .,  ...  15^  to  2  calories  an  hour  for 

each  pound  of  tiody  weight, 
Beven!  exerctHt;   fh<^ivy   muscular  exercise, 
such  as  that  done  ljy  lumbermen,  ex- 

cavatoi-s,  and  atcvedorcs) , .    .  ,   3   or   more    calories   an    hour 

for  each  pound  of  body  weight 


A   MANUAL  OF  HO^fE-^fAK!^G 


The  average  child  spends  ahout  the  following  amounts  of 
energy: 

CakricB  a 
pound  eaeii  d«if 

For  finit  3  months -   45-SO 

For  Bwond  3  months  Mh4S 

For  third  3  months  .40 

For  fourrh  li  months  35-40 

For  2d  ywir.    .40 

For  3rd  and  4t  Ij  yrjir-  .  35—40 

For  5th  yoBr  ,  .35-37 

For  6th  year  34-35 

For  7th  yrar .  .32->1t4 

30-35 
28-32 
25-:^0 
20-25 


For  8th  year 

For  10th  t^j  12th  years.  . 
For  12th  to  14th  years,  . 
For  14th  to  17t,h  years 

A  simple  way  of  estimating  a<luli  needs  is  as  follows; 

Tht*  average  adult  spends: 


At  complete  rest , 
Light  f^xfTcisp. 
MwJerate  excrri,-^ 
ilard  exercise . 


Calmies  a 

funiml  fioch  day 

,14-16 

J6-18 

18-20 

20-23 


The  100H?alorip  portion  is  the  short,  cut  in  dietar>'  calculations. 
With  the  knowledge  of  l()0-calorie  jwrtions  of  common  ftiods, 
it  i8  very  simple  to  estimate  the  fuel  value  of  a  given  meal  or  of 
a  day*s  meals,  Plate  XM  and  Tahlas  XVI  to  XXI  will  be  of 
service  in  learning  to  make  this  estimate. 


HOW   TO    EST1&L\TE    THE    DAILY   liEEO   OF   PROTEIN 

The  average  daily  allowance  of  protein  may  he  cstimatec!  in 
two  ways.    Bot  h  have  disadvantages  as  well  as  good  points. 

One  way  of  estimating  the  protein  allowance  is  on  the  baais 
of  the  actual  amoiunt  of  protein  needed  in  a  day.  The  average 
adult  probably  needs  daily  about  2  or  3  ounces  of  proteiiL  Or 
to  state  the  matter  in  a  more  accurate  way,  the  protein  in  the 
day*s  meals  should  furnish  daily  2  to  2 j.^  calories  for  euch  pound 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


415 


of  body  weight.  If  animal  proteins  are  generously  represented, 
the  lesser  amount  may  l>e  adequate.  For  economy  not  more  than 
one-thii'd  of  the  total  protein  in  tlie  adult  diet  should  he  furnished 
by  animal  foods.  Less  than  this  may  be  used.  One  egg*  one  glass 
of  milk,  and  an  ounce  of  cheese  or  a  small  piece  of  meat,  give 
a  liberal  amount  of  animal  protein  in  a  day.  Less  than  this 
may  be  sufficient.  If  plant  proteins  predominate  largely,  the 
greater  amount  may  t>e  needed.  About  one-third  of  the  daily 
protein  sliould  be  taken  from  the  eerc^al  grains — -wheat,  corn, 
r>^e,  oats,  rice,  barley.  After  the  allowances  for  animal  and 
cereal  proteins  have  been  made,  the  remainder  of  tlie  protein 
may  come  from  nuts,  legumes,  and  fruits  and  vegetables.  If 
wise  combinations  of  animal  and  plant  proteins  arc  made,  the 
amount  needed  will  prol)al>ly  lie  Ijetween  the  two  extremes. 

Another  way  of  estimating  the  protein  allowance  is  on  the 
basis  of  the  proportion  of  total  calories  which  protein  should 
furnish.  The  average  at^lult  should  receive  daily  from  protein 
10  to  15  ]>er  cent  of  the  total  calories  in  his  food.  If  plant  pro- 
teins predominate,  L5  per  cent  of  the  total  calorics  should  be 
furnisht^d  by  protein.  If  the  number  of  calories  needed  is  great 
Ix'cause  of  much  exercise,  only  10  per  cent,  or  even  less,  of  the 
total  calories  need  ho  furnished  by  protein. 

The  tallies  of  l(K)-calorie  portions  (Tables  X\T-XXI)  may  be 
used  in  estimating  the  amount  of  protein  food  that  is  retiuire^I 
to  meet  the  needs  of  the  body,  since  one  column  states  the 
nuniter  of  calories  a  given  food  supplies  in  the  form  of  prot^^io. 


I 


liow   TO   estimate:   the   daily   need    of   lime,    iron   and 

PHOSPHORUS 

It  is  more  difficult  to  estimate  the  daily  need  for  lime,  iran, 
and  phosphorus  than  for  energy  and  protein.  Yet  these  are  no 
less  imfmrtant  than  energy  antl  protein,  and  some  quantita- 
tive estimates  liave  been  made. 

In  general,  however,  if  liberal  am*Hints  of  foods  that  contain 
lime,  iron,  and  phosphorus  are  included  in  the  daily  meals,  it  m 
unnecessary  to  make  any  quantitative  estimates.  The  following 
figures  are  given  as  a  matter  of  interest  and  general  information : 


410 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


AveraKi*  faiikily  per  capita  allowance  of  lime  a  day  .  0.70  to  LO  | 
Avttmge  family  per  capita  allowaace  of  iron  a  day.  .  .  0 JS  to ,  15 1 
Average  family  per  capita  allowance  of  phosphonia  a  day  2,75  to  3.0  f^nyatf  1 


TABLE  XVI.— 100-Caujiiie  Portion  of  Fooo«  Riot  m 

Starch  ' 

Nmrther 

Approxinude 

^ 

Wmifhl 

Food  maieriala 

mewmreoj 
ICO^calorie 

in 
atmetig 

portiofi 

proinn 

bought 

■ 

BeaxiN,  dried .  . 

2  ttd)k«pooiifiils 

20  1 

>o     1 

Hfisad 

Average  while 

Slice  1x3x3  inches 

14  0 

13 

Whole  wheat 

Slice  1x3x3  inches 

15.8      1 

1   i 

Com 

Starch 

:{ tahk-spfxjn fills 

0  0 

10 

Meid. 

3  tablr^p^Kirifuls, 

10  4 

10 

Flakes 

1  ):-4  eiipfiila    ,......, 

6  1 

I/O 

Homitjy 

3t»bli«i»«xjnfuls 

9  4 

10 

Puffed 

I  "4  c*apf  ub 

6  0 

10 

Macaroni 

*4'  cupful 

14  8 

10 

Oati,  rollrd 

1/3  cupful,  scant. 

16  1 

9 

Pteaft,  dried 

2  tablespoonf  ula . . 

27  7 

10 

PotatiM-* 

VVhiit* 

I  mediym 

10,  li 

5  3 

Swwt, 

1  tsiimll                    . 

5  8 

3.6 

Ric* 

PolisbtHl 

2  table«poonfula 

0  1 

10 

PufFofl 

I  1/3  cupful* 

0  I 

I  0 

Wheat 

CmrkiHi 

2!»i  tahkwpoiinruls 

12  3 

10 

ShriMlded 

I  biscuit. 

14  0 

10 

Fuffi'd 

1  2/3  cupful^ 

15  0 

10 

Wheat  fliMjr 

Patent 

\i  rupful    .  . 

12  7 

1.0 

Entire 

^i  vupful,  ........ 

15-4 

10 

Craliani 

34  fuiiful,  sejtnl 

12. 7 

1.0 

*  Some  of  the  mea»urt»mpntH  in  Tables  XVI  to  XX  wen*  made  by  Miriam 
BirdHcye,  while  ntherw  wore  eanipiliHl  frrjiu  v:iriiiui4  ."sourcH-a  including  Feed- 
ing th«»  Family^  by  Mary  Swartx  Roet^    The  other  dat^  in  the»4»  tabled. j 
are  bawvl  on  the  table  of  lOO-calorie  (jortiona  in  Food  Producta,  by  Hetuy  | 
C*  Sherman, 


,PiJiTK  XVI . — SbowiziK  100>«iiloiie  portioiiB  of  somie  comnioci  f ooda.  Top.  readini^  from 
l^t  to  risht:  1  and  2,  wbey^;  3,  eTBpo«mt«d  mUk;  4.  eondeiiBed  milk  riweetcfied) ;  5  and  A, 
■kimmeMi-cailk :  7.  wboJe  miJk:  S.  IS^per-cent  craam;  0,  40-pQf-ceiit  cream.  C«al«r.  reading 
JfroED  back  to  froal:  MpUmch,  cnenn,  olive  oil.  peanut  butter;  butter,  Urd,  roroa.  ehoeolate, 
potato,  ■luaddMl  ooafiih«  egs,  celatiii,  Che<Jd&r  rhe«9e.  navy  beaxM.  rolled  oau,  bread, 
cracken»  duadded  wbeai,  tnacarooi,  wheat  flour,  rhubarb.  molasMa.  rranberriea.  oraiiceat 
ooioiia.  caoota.  Irttuea.  banana*.  pruiLe*,  datea,  raktoa.  sugar.  Bottom.  lOO-eaJorie  por^ 
tiooi  0f  looda,  raw  and  cooked.  Sugar  baa  oo«  been  added  u>  the  foodi  ordinafily  requtriiui 
it.  Pooda  In  rQan  I  and  3  are  cooked ;  tboM  in  rowa  2  and  4  are  raw.  Rwading  from  baek 
to  froot:  platin.  commeal.  tapioca,  macarooi.  rolled  oata,  cfcam  of  wheat,  oavy  T 
aptnacb,  rbubarb,  rranberrtefl.  ooioiui,  applea,  prunea,  lima  beans. 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


417 


TABLE  XVll. — KKKCALORns  Portions  of  Foods  Rich  in  Sugar 


Food  materials 


Apples,  fresh . 

Bananas 

Dates 

Figs,  dried  . . 

Grapes 

Honey 

Lemons 

Molasses.  .  .  . 

Oranges 

Peaches 

Prunes 

Raisins 

Strawberries. 
Sugar 

Granulated 

Lump 


Approximate 

meastare  of 

lOO^alarie 

portion 


1  large 

1  medium 

4  large 

IH  large 

Medium  bunch 

1  tablespoonful 

3  large 

1 H  tablespoonf  uls . . . 
1  very  large 

3  large 

4  large 

Ji  cupful 

1  1/3  cupfuls 

2  tablespoonf  uls 
scant 

3}4  lumps 


Number 

of 

calories 

furnished 

hy 

protein 


2.6 
5.3 
2.4 
5.4 
5.4 
.5 
9.0 
3.3 
6.2 
6.8 
2.8 
3.0 
10.2 


0.0 
0.0 


Weight 

in 
ounces 

as 
bought 


7.5 
5.5 
1.1 
1.1 
4.9 
1.1 

11.4 
1.2 
9.5 

10.5 
1.4 
11 
9.5 


.9 

0 


418 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


TABLE  XVIII. — 100-Calorie  Pobtionb  op  Suoculbmt  Vbgbtablbb 


Pood  materiaU 


Beets 

Cabbaflf^ 

Carrots 

Celery 

Chard,  Swiss 

CucuinlH»rH 

Lettuce 

Onions 

ParsnipR 

Peas 

Fresh  shelled 

Canned 

Rhubarb 

Spinach,  edible  portion 

Squash 

Tomatoes 

Fresh 

Canned 

Turnips 


ApproxUnale 

nwature  qf 

100<alorie 

portions 


3  medium 

}i  medium  head  . . 

3  medium 

4  cupfuls  of  ^-inch 
pieces 

2  large 

2  large  heads 

3  medium 

1 H  medium 

Ji  cupful 

^  cupful,  drained . .  . 

4  cupfuls    of    1-inch 
pieces 

2  quarts,     approxi- 
mately  

4  small 

1  Ji  cupfuls 

2  cupfuls  of   K-inch 
cubes 


Number 

qf 

caloriea 

furnished 

by 
protein 


13.9 

20.3 

9.7 

23.7 
:J3.5 
18.4 
25.1 
1:5.2 
9.9 

28.0 
26.1 

10.4 

35  2 
12.2 

15.8 
21.2 

13.2 


Weight 

m 
ounces 

as 
bought 


0.6 
13.3 
10. 1 


23 

9 

23 

22 

8 
0 


6.4 
6  4 

25  2 

14  8 

15  6 

15  5 
15  6 

12  9 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


419 


TABLE  XIX. — IOO-Calorie  Portions  of  Foods  Rich  in  Fat 


Food  materials 

Approximate 

measure  of 

lOO-calorie 

portions 

Number 

of 

calories 

furnished 

hy 

protein 

Weight 

in 
ounces 

as 
bought 

Bacon 

Raw 

2  thin  slices 

4  thin  slices 

1  tablespoonful 

^  sQuare 

6.7 

.5 
8.4 
17.4 
5.1 
2.3 
0.0 

0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
1.5 
19.4 
10.4 

.6 

Cooked 

Butter 

.5 

Chocolate,  unsweetened  . 

.6 

Cocoa .  .  . ; 

3  tablespoonfuls 

Ji  cupful 

.7 

Cream,  18.5  per  cent 

1.8 

Cream,  40  per  cent 

Lard 

11/3  tablespoonfuls. . 
1  tablespoonful,  scant 

1  tablespoonful,  scant 
1  tablespoonful,  scant 
1  tablespoonful,  scant 
1  tablespoonful,  scant 
6  to  8 

.9 
.4 

Olive 

.4 

Cottonseed 

.4 

Corn 

.4 

Peanut 

.4 

Olives 

1.6 

Peanut  butter 

11/5  tablespoonfuls  . 
8  to  16  nuts 

.6 

Walnuts,  shelled  California 

.5 

TABLE  XX.— 100-Calorib  Pobtionb  of  Foodb  Rich  in  Protbin 


Food  matariak 


Beef,  kftn  round. . 
Cbeeso 

Dttiiy  (Cheddar). 

Cottage 

ChiekeDs,  broilerB 
•Codfish 

Salted 

Dressed  fresh .  .  . 
Eggs  in  sheU 


Fowls 

Ham 

Smoked 

Fresh  lean .  .  . 
Lamb 

Fore  quarter . 

Hind  quarter . 
Milk 

Whole 

Skimmed.  .  .  . 
Salmon 

Canned 

Fresh 

Veal,  lean 


Apprwcimaie 
meatwreof 

poHiatiB 


iHDchoube. 
1/3  cupful. . 


1  very  large  or  11/3 
average 


2/3  cupful,  scant . 
1  1/8  cupfub 


}/i  cupful,  scant. 


Number 

of 

ealoriea 

ftamMed 

by 
protein 


54.5 

24.2 
76.2 
79.6 

97.3 
96.0 

36.2 
34.5 

29.7 
44.0 

24.2 
31.4 

19.0 
37.0 

44.5 
43  3 
54  1 


Weight 
In 


2.5 

.8 
3.2 
5.5 

4.4 
7.6 

2.7 
2.1 

1.5 
1.6 

1.4 
1.7 

5.1 
9.6 

2.4 
2.5 
3.0 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


421 


TABLE  XXI.—Table  of  100  Food  Units  * 


Nam€  Iff  food 


"  i^ortion"  contain- 
ing  too  ftMHi  unitn 


Wt.  of  liiO 
caloriea  («f,) 


hg  pmUin  ' 


Bocf ,  round,  bulled  (fut)  . . 
Bct'f,  round,  twiled  (lean)  . 
Bef^F.  roynd,  boiled  (mcd.> 

Bcp^f,  r>th  rib,  rDftvted 

Bet'f.  bth  rib.  ruttited, 

Beof.  5ih  rib.  ro««ted, , 

Beef.  ribs,  boiled, <. 

B««f,  riba,  boiled 

Cft]ve«**foot  j«lly ,..►..,. 

Clucketi,  caaoad , .    - ,  .    .  , , , 

Lamb  chops,  boiled  av 

Lamb,  lea,  rousted . 

Mutton.  Teg*  boili!d, 

pork,  liam,  boilod  (fat),  ....,•..,.. 

Pork,  ham,  boilod, ♦♦.,».,.. 

Porkf  lfiani»  r(»a?«tcd  (Tat), 

Pork^  imni,  ro»i«t(«d  ilcaa), 
Turkvy  a*  purctiiisea  canntnJ 

Veal,  k'g,  boilfd,  ....    

I'nrwikfHt  Moiita,  Edible  FoitioD 

Bwf.  loin.  »v,  (Ic^mi) , 

B©of,  loin,  aw  (fat) , . , , . 

Beef,  loin,  porterhouse  tdenk,  Air.  .... . 

BmI ,  Join.  Hirloin  flto&k,  av , .  ^ . . . « 

Beef,  ribit,  Ituin,  «.v , , *,►..,. 

B**ef.  round,  kian.  av 

Beef,  topKije,  nv , «..*.».., 

Beef,  juice ...... 

Chkckewm  (bTodfera)  av 

Cl&oui.  r^odl  ia  ftbell,  av . , , . . 

Cod  (vrholp) , 

Gi»otic  (youiitt)  »¥..,,♦,»♦,«,♦.•*,♦- 

Halibut  Hteoks,  »v ..♦,,  +  .***♦* 

Liver  (veal) ,  nv. ,..,,.,,., 

Lobster  (whole) ^^  «v 

Maokerel  (Span.),  whole,  my .,...,,. . 

Mutton  IpRf  hindt  lean,  av ,  .  , 

Oyotere  in  abidl.  av 

Pork,  loin,  ehops,  av.  , 

Pork,  baui,  lean,  av . ,_..,.., 

Pork,  bacon^  mrd.  fat,  »V» . « ^ .  ^ « .  i . .  * 

Salmon  (Cal.),  av *....«  i. ^ n . i* 

8ltad,  whole,  av 

Trout,  brook,  whole,  av ..-...«,..,.. , 

Turkey,  av ....,.,,.,«.*..,>♦ 

Vegjelabloa 

Artiohokc<»,  av..  canned 

AspaniKua,  av.,  canned «  . ., . . 

Aqmraff UR,  av.,  cooked , 

Bcttna*  baked,  canned , . 

Beans,  lima,  nanned ...,,..., 

BeanA,  string,  cooked 

Be«t«,  edibli>  portion,  rookecJ        

Cabbaccr,  edible  portion    .  .  ..  , 

CarfotB,  edible  portion,  fresh . 

Canote,  cooked ,  , 

Cauliflower,  a^  purcliaaed  ..,,...      ... 

Celeiy,  edible  portion 

Com,  mtmi,  (»ooked 


Hitiall  eiervinit 
LurKe  RervinK 
Hmall  jfcrving 
Hall  aervioiE 
Small  aervinc 
Very  «inJill  eervin* 
^Tnatl  lervinc 
Very  amall  aervin* 

ijtnti  tbin  alico 
One  amall  chop 
ChtJ,  aervinjE 
Lafgv  trying 
^mall  *RT\'iiii5 
Ord»  serving 
8  Dial  I  »£?rvin« 
8mall  Borvinjc 
^mall  serving 
].,ar^  aervinif 

Ord.  serving 
SDiall  serv'iuf 
Hmall  steak 
Hriiall  steak 
Ord,  aprving 
Ord.  serving 
Old,  »er\'ing 

Large  aervinji 
12  to  16 
Two  aervinga 
Half  serving 
Old*  aerving 
Two  sm.  servings 
Twoaervlnga 
Ofd-  tervinR 
Ord.  serving 
One  do»en 
Very  amall  serving 
Kmall  serving 
Small  serving 
Small  lerving 
Ord.  ■erving 
Two  amall  servings 
Two  amaU  servings 


Small  aide  dinb 
Large  aide  dish 
Fivf*  serviBgM 
Three  servings 


Twoaervii^pi 
One  side  diab 


1  :W) 

2  20 
1  00 

1  20 

m 

1  10 
•4  0(} 

mt 

1  80 
1  2(J 

73 
1   10 

Wl 
I  20 

99 
3.40 

1  80 
1  10 
1  30 
1   40 

1  SO 

2  2f  ) 
2  20 

14.00 
3.20 
7  40 
4  90 
88 
2  80 
2  80 
4  10 
2  00 
1.80 

6  80 
97 

1  30 
63 

1  50 

2  10 

3  60 
1  20 

15  00 
19  00 

7  10 
2.6« 

4  44 

16  06 

8  70 
11  00 

7  GO 
.5.8) 
11   00 

19  no 

3  fiO 


40 
WO 
GO 
12 
26 
18 
27 
21 
19 
23 
24 
40 
3A 
14 
28 
19 
33 
23 
73 

40 
22 
32 

31 
42 
54 

47 
78 
79 
56 
95 
Itt 
61 
01 
78 
50 
41 
49 
18 
29 
6 
30 
46 
80 
20 

14 
33 

18 
21 
21 

15 
2 
20 
10 
10 
23 
24 
13 


t  Irving  Futher,  The  Joiinuil  of  the  American  Medical  Asaoeiation,  48:10. 


422 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  XXL— Table  of  100  Fooo  VmTl^-^Qnt*d, 


Nam*  ^fitod 


Cuounibon,  edibb  portion 
Egxpliuii,  ftdible  portion 

[jcntilA.  cooked 

Lettuw,  edible  portiuD 

Mujihrrxinui,  sji  purrhaaod 
Otuotu,  ffeah.  cdjble  portion 

Onion*,  coc>kod 

Puranips.  edibl«  portion. 
Paremps,  oook«d. ,.,.,.. 
Piou,  Krecn,  cansed .... 
P«u,  gre«ii,  cookdd ,  _ 

Potatowi,  bitked 

PotttliK*M,  boiled « 

Potatoes,  tiuuibtHl.  (ereamuJ) 
Potatoes^  9t^»tm«<l ... 
Polatoea.  rhtpa ......... 

Potatoe*^  »w«t*l»  cooktst 
Pumpkifui,  edible  portioti 
Radtahes.  ai  purohaMMi 
Rhubarb,  edible  purtiou 

Spinach,  cooked  _ 

Squaah*  edible  portion 
8u(«otaiih,  canoed ... 
Tomatooa.  fraah  aa  piirebasei 

Tomatoe*,  cannod 

Tumipt.  edible  portion . .  . , . 


Fhiito  (Dried) 
Api>le«  aa  purehaaed . , ,  , 
Aprtcota  aa  purchaeed . 
Dniea*  i»dible  portion . . 
Dat«a  aa  piirohaMd .... 

Fliai  edib1<?  portioti 

PrUDea,  edible  port  ion 

PrtuieB  aa  ptircbaacd 

Raiflina,  cmble  portion ,._..,... 

Raiaina  ae  purcnaflHl 

Fniita  (Freeh  or  Cooked) 


Applei  aa  pyrcl 
ApplM.bJnd. 

Apploe,  iauoe 

Apriooia,  edible  portion . 

Apttrnt^,  cooked .  . 

Ranaiuw,  edible  portion 

HlacWherriee 

Blurberriea 

FiliK'^M  rrU*i.  eaooed.  .  , 


<  fie  portion 

<  ;  «H  purchaMMJ 
Gniix:^  its  purcn*K?d^  av 

Gmpr  fruit 

drape  juioe«  amaU  staae 

GouBpbenica 

Lemon*      ...•••«»..... 
Lemon  juioe .  .  ^  ^  #  • . . » . 

Nectarijx*« 

Olivea,  ripe 

Orancea  as  purchaeed,  av 

Orancea.,  iuice . 

Peat'bM  aa  purchaeed.  av 


"Por*w«**  amtain- 
ing  too  fwtd  wn^ 

(e|r|»r«xj 


nslertet  <o#.) 


Two  Ijinje  (KTvinii;* 
One  oni*-half  M*rvin|pi 

Two  aervinjta 
One  serving 
Une  Kood  aiBod 
i  }di;  larie  eiaed 
One  setving 
t  In**  (WTving 
OuL^-half  eirrviaK 
\\\Ai  av.  potato 


Two  ord.  Nervin«« 

Ord.  serving 
Four  av.  M*rviDfls 

Two  Large  aervings 


Three  larKe 
Tbrre  large 


Two  applm 

Ord.  si*r\inje 

Lurgt"  servinic 
One  Lnrgt? 

HnlJ'  ord,  i«rving 


Abo«lt  eeven 
One  venr  lar^e 
Large  gLuB 
rhfiN»  fmtinary 


m  on 

U  00 

3.15 

18.00 

7,m 

7  10 

8.40 
6.30 
fi.84 

0  30 
3  00 

a.oA 

3,14 

3.A7 

m 

1  70 
13  00 
17  01 J 

\h.m 
0  10 
7.40 

a.fio 

15  00 

15  ao 

».70 

0.02 


I  20 
1  24 

1  10 
I  10 
1    14 

1  afi 
I  Ofl 
I    10 


7.30 
3.30 

3  90 
5  92 

4  01 

3  50 

5  00 

4  00 
A  60 

8  60 
4.40 
7  SO 

4  «n 
7  67 
4.20 

9  2U 
7  57 
«  77 
A.  18 
13) 
9.40 
0  113 

10  00 


6v  prtUim 


18 
17 
27 
2S 
31 
13 
11 
10 
10 
3S 
23 
II 
11 
10 
11 
4 
O 
1& 
IH 
10 
IS 
12 
lA 
M 
21 
13 
10 

1 

7 
% 
2 
A 
2 
3 
3 
3 

3 

a 

2 

% 
0 

A 
9 
3 
4 

0 
A 
2 
5 
7 
0 
5 
9 
0 
4 
3 

0 


A 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


423 


TABLE  XXI.— Table  of  100  Food  Unitb— Cont'd. 


Name  of  food 


"Portion"  contain- 
ing 100  food  unUs 
iapprox.) 


Wt.  of  100 
calories  (o«.) 


Calories 
fumiahed 
by  protein 


Peaches,  sauce 

Peaches,  juice 

Pears 

Pears,  sauce 

Pineapples,  edible  portion,  av 

Raspberries,  black 

Raspberries,  red 

Strawberries,  av 

Watermelon,  av 

Dairy  Products 

Butter,  ordinary  pat 

Buttermilk 

Cheese,  Am.  pale 

Cheese,  cottage 

Cheese,  full  cream 

Cheese,  Neufchatel 

Cheese,  Swiss 

Cheese,  pineapple 

Cream 

Kumyss 

Milk,  condensed,  sweetened 

Milk,  condensed,  unsweetened 

Milk,  skimmed 

Milk,  whole 

Whey 

Cakes,  Pa-stry,  Puddings,  and  Desserts 

Cake,  chocolate  layer 

Cake,  gingerbread 

Cake,  sponge 

Custard,  caramel 

Custard,  milk 

Custard,  tapioca 

Doughnuts 

Lady  fingers 

Macaroons 

Pie,  apple 

Pie,  cream 

Pie,  custard 

Pie,  lemon 

Pie,  mince 

Pie,  squash 

Pudding,  apple  sage 

Pudding,  brown  betty 

Pudding,  cream  rice 

Pudding.  Indian  meal 

Pudding,  apple  tapioca 

Tapioca,  cooked 

Sweets  and  Pickles 

Catchup,  tomato,  av 

Honey 

Marmalade,  orange 

Molasses,  cane . 

Olives,  green,  edible  portion 

Olives,  ripe,  edible  portion 

Jrtckles,  mixed 

Sugar,  granulated 

Sugar,  maple 

Sirup,  maple 

Nuts,  Edible  Portion 
Almonds,  av 


Ord.  serving 
Ord.  glass 
One  large 


Two  servings 


IH  glass 
Small  glass 
Two  glasses 

H  ord.  sq.  piece 
H  ord.  sq.  piece 
Small  piece 

Ord.  cup 
Two-thirds  ord. 
Half  a  doughnut 

One-third  piece 
One-fourth  piece 
One-third  piece 
One-third  piece 
One-fourth  piece 
One-third  piece 

Half  ord.  serving 
Very  small  serving 
Half  ord.  serving 
Small  serving 
Ord.  serving 


Four  teaspoons 


5-7  olives 
5-7  olives 

Three    heaping   tea- 
spoons or  IV^  lumps 
Four  teaspoons 
Four  teaspoons 

Eight  to  fifteen 


4.78 
4.80 
5.40 
3.98 
8.00 
5.18 
6.29 
9.10 
27.00 

.44 
9.70 

.77 
3.12 

.82 
1.05 

.80 

.72 
1.70 
6.70 
1.06 
2.05 
9.40 
4.90 
13.00 


.96 

.89 

2.51 

4.29 

2.45 

.80 

.95 

.82 

1.30 

1.10 

1.90 

1.35 

1.20 

1.90 

3.02 

2.00 

2.65 

2.00 

2.80 

3.85 

6.00 
1.05 
1.00 
1.20 
1.10 
1.30 
14.60 


.86 
.03 
.20 


.53 


4 

0 

4 

3 

4 
10 

8 
10 

6 

0.5 
34 
25 
76 
25 
22 
25 
25 

5 
21 
10 
24 
37 
19 
15 

7 

6 

7 
19 
26 

9 

6 
10 

6 

5 

5 

9 

6 

8 
10 

6 

7 

8 
12 

1 

1 

10 

1 

0.6 

0.6 

1  ' 

2 
18 

0 
0 
0 

13 


424 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


TABLE  XXI— Txulk  or  100  Fooo  UHiTd— Cdu'lrf. 


Name  of  fmMl 

"  Pifrt^un*'  cunkitn- 
tno  ttKJ  food  untU 

* 

'' 

BeetthnuU 

&2 

t:t 

Biusil'RuM 

Throe  orti.  man 

.40 

m 

Butt4?niiiLfl 

,fiO 

» 

Coroaimtn 

.67 

4 

CbesUiyU,  fresh.  a\ 

1.40 

10 

Filbcrt4,  »v 

Ten  ntiia 

,48 

9 

Hickory-ntiU 

47 

0 

PuanulR 

Yhirteeo,  double 

JV2 

» 

Pecttftn,  (wtli^lHxl 

Abcmi  t'inhi 

.4rt 

0 

r'inc  nut^  (pinTTioliaj*! 

Al^wiiit  <piithty 

Jiti 

23 

WttliiUlf*.  Cttlifiironi 

AtHJUt  niJL 

,48 

10 

C«?real*, 

firead,  brown,  av 

Ord.  thlrk  bU<^ 

1  m 

» 

Bmad.  com  (jotinny  rake),  av 

Small  square 

I  ,1<l 

12 

Bread,  whit<^,  homc'iiiade 

Ord.  think  filire 

1  :jo 

13 

Com  flnkai.  tooKtod 

Ord.  eereal  dkh 

97 

11 

Commfrftl  gr&nulftr.  iiv 

jm 

10 

Cnrnniml.  unbolted,  av 

«2 

0 

Crackcnt,  graham.  , 

Two  eracker* 

82 

9.JI 

Cmokerw^  oatmval                                   *       .  . 

Two  rrnckeni 

SI 

tl 

fiotntny,  cookvd                                            .    . 

Ljuve  wsrvinc 

4  20 

11 

Marnmm,  av 

WJ 

lA 

M&f'aroni,  eooktxl 

Ord*  aDrvinc 

3.86 

It 

Oatmeal,  boilwl 

IHMrviiit 

J5  flO 

V% 

Popporn                                                  

.8*4 

11 

Rkt',  ubfoukcd 

08 

11 

Kirf ,  l>cnlod . 

Ord,  wreal  dish 

3  iO 

10 

Hm-.  tliikw. 

Ord.  cereal  diiih 

tW 

8 

Hnlh.  Vienna,  av                                        .        , 

One  tarce  mil 

1   2tt 

13 

Shn'UdwJ  whvikl    .    *  .    ,,..,.    ...    ... 

Ot»  biacuii 

M 

13 

8t>a4tli(*tti,  HV      ,,.*,.,«.    . 

Wheat  flour,  eaU  wheat,  av 

»7 

12 

Mil 

lA 

Whoat  flour,  fmhajn,  av 

WJ 

Id 

Whaat  flour,  pat«Qt.  faniUy.  and  •Umtght, 

crade.  •piixic  wheat  av     ......,..-    . 

Four  tab[(*«poana 
%»e   of    thiek   aJke 

,ttr 

12 

zwSSiv  "^ 

of  bread 

,81 

» 

MWc'LUneouA 

EkB».  ben'«,  WnlM 

One  lar««  en 

2  It) 

32 

EltCB.  hen's,  wiui<  ^ 

Hixwhitra 

8  40 

100 

£«•,  henV,  y\k^ 

Two  yolka 

M 

17 

Ometet 

a  % 

34 

Soup,  t)^^  »v 

laoo 

m 

Soi>p,  hviiu.  av 

Vi*ry  lance  platis 

A. 4(1 

m 

S-      f  Malory 

TwoplaU« 

rt.io 

lit 

i                      

2e  00 

85 

Vl.r                 .    l-t     ., 

Two  platw 

8  25 

17 

Choc^»bkt4i,  bitter 

Half  a  Mquarc 

.56 

K 

Cocoa 

(H) 

17 

Iw>  priMim  fPhila.)                                          . , 

1  00 

5 

I 
I 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


425 


L 


SOME    RULES   FOR   PLANNING  MEAX.8 

The  halancM  dietary. 

To  balance  the  dietary  means  to  i^upply  in  the  meals  of  each 
day,  in  a  form  Imst  suited  to  the  individual,  enough  energy  for 
the  day^s  activities,  all  the  substances  needed  to  build  the  tissoes 
— ^hone,  muscle,  nerve,  blood — and  those  substances  which  keepy 
the  body  in  good  working  order » 

The  choice  of  foods. 

The  main  part  of  the  meals  of  each  day  should  consist  of 
simply  prepared,  mild-flavortM!,  noo-stimulating,  and  easily 
dige^sted  foods.  Well-cooked  cereals,  thoroughly  baked,  sweet- 
flavored  f>read|  potatoes,  milk,  eggs,  fresh,  succulent  vegetables 
and  fruits  should  constitute  the  background  of  the  dietary. 
Meats  and  meat  soupsi  candies,  preserves,  desserts,  cakes  and 
other  sweets,  rich  sauces^  picklest  and  condiments  should  l>e 
used  in  mwJeration  to  give  color  and  interest  to  the  dietarv^  ; 
they  should  not  furnish  the  bulk  of  the  food  at  any  one  meal 

Milk  should  be  used  liberally  in  order  to  replace  a  part  of  the 
meat  in  the  average  dietary,  and  Ijccause,  of  all  fcKxls,  it  is 
richest  in  lime.  Milk  is  the  cheapest  animal  food;  and  since 
some  animal  food  is  necessary,  milk  should  l>e  the  first  to  be 
considered.  It  has  building  materials  w^hich  are  of  sj>ecial 
value  for  constructing  young  human  tissue.  No  other  food  con- 
tains as  much  lime.  It  is  also  tho  most  important  source  of  two 
necessary  growth-promoting  factors  (page  412).  It  tends  to 
hold  in  check  abnormal  changet^  in  the  intestine.  It  is  mild 
in  flavor  and  lends  itself  to  a  variety  of  uses.  When  it  under- 
goes normal  souring,  it  still  is  of  value  and  may  be  used  in  many 
ways. 

If  possible,  provision  should  be  ma<le  to  supply  each  child  in 
the  family  with  a  (juart  of  clr!iii,  wliolesome  milk  every  day. 
A  pint  of  inilk  for  each  adult  is  desiralile  if  tlie  meat  cousum|> 
tinu  is  low.  If  it  is  imf)ossib!e  to  supply  tv^  much  milk  iis  this 
for  butii  children  and  adults,  tlie  children  shouhl  recciv^<^  a  pint 
of  milk  each,  while  the  amount  for  the  adults  may  be  reduced 
to  a  cupful  apiece.    If  the  milk  supply  for  the  family  must  be 


426 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Ik 
he 

i 

a 

I 


reduced  still  furtJier»  the  milk  should  be  given  to  the  children, 
since  the  adults  can  eat  tToarner  foods.  Less  than  a  pint  of  milk 
a  day  for  each  child  is  a  very  iimalJ  allowance  and  is  likely  t^ 
result  in  some  fomi  of  malnutrition.  No  milk  at  all  for  the 
child  means,  without  doubts  malnutrition,  unless  knowledge 
and  skill  are  combined  in  planning  a  correct  and  much  moi 
expensive  dietary. 

If  it  is  impossible  to  obtain  whole-milk,  skim-milk  is  better 
than  no  milk,  even  for  little  children,  although  the  child  on  a 
skim-milk  diet  will  not  grow  so  normally  as  one  fe<l  on  w*holi 
milk.    The  milk  may  l>e  used  as  a  beverage,  or  it  may  l>e  cookei 
in  various  ways.    The  correct  amount,  not  the  form  in  which  ii 
is  used,  is  the  important  |X)iiit,    If  the  family  must  oe*onomi«e,1 
the  amount  of  butter  may  lie  reduced,  but  tlie  amount  of  milt 
should  at  the  same  time  l>e  increiksed  to  insure  the  correct  total 
of  the  fat-soluble  growth-promoting  factor. 

Clean,  sweet,  skim-milk  is  as  valuable  as  whole-milk  for  t 
supply  of  lime,  its  good  type  of  prot-eiii,  it.s  water-soluble  growt 
promoting  factor  and  for  a  part  of  its  fat-soluble  growth-pn 
mottng  factor.  Skim-milk  has  a  lower  ejierK>'  value  than  doe 
whole-milk  because  of  the  loss  of  its  fat.  Half  of  its  fat-solubl 
growth-promoting  factor  is  lost  with  the  fat;  therefore,  skim 
milk  has  not  the  same  growt h-j)romoting  p^iwer  ils  whole-milk] 
although  it  still  contains  gn3v\i:h-promoting  properties.  For 
this  reason,  children  should  have  whole-milk  instead  of  skim 
milk. 

Buttermilk  has  the  same  food  value  as  skim-milk.  iSomi 
persons  digest  buttermilk  more  easily  than  skim-milk  becausa 
the  casein  is  clotted  by  the  acid  in  the  milk-  It  is  believed  that. 
when  the  casein  of  milk  is  clottp<I  before  it  reaches  the  stomacbi 
either  by  natural  souring  or  by  the  ad<lition  of  orange,  lemon 
or  other  fruit  juici^  or  jiniket,  it  (loes  not  form  the  large  finn 
clots  sometimes  f*»rmi*d  in  the  cane  of  swt^t  milk.  The  nutri- 
tive value  of  the  tnilk  is  urichungtxK  and  the  clotting  may  make 
the  milk  more  easily  digested  by  some  jx^rsons. 

Cottage  cheese,  itiade  of  the  curd  of  milk,  is  a  valuable 
It  contains  most  of  the  pit)tein  of  the  whole-milk  and  is  a 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


427 


source  of  this  important  building  material.  It  contains  a  part 
of  I  he  Hiiie  ami  the  pho^^phoruH  of  the  whole-milk,  and  part  of 
tht^  gifiwth-promoliiit;  fafitors,  though  htlle  ctm  he  said  as  yet 
cofieerning  the  comparative  amounts  of  these  substance^s  pre-*^eat 
in  it.    As  a  protein  food,  it  is  u  v^al Liable  meat  substitute. 

Whey  also  ha.<  nutritive  value  aiul  .should  never  be  <lisearded. 
It  contains  the  water-.sohible,  and  a  small  part  of  the  fat-soluble, 
growth-proiooting  factors,  much  of  the  lime,  part  of  the  phos- 
phorus, and  it  may  contain  most  of  the  carbohydrate  of  the 
original  milk.  It  should  find  many  use^s  in  the  dietary'  in  the 
form  of  brea<ls  and  cake^i,  gelatin  desserts,  frozen  desserts,  and 
pudding  Hauees. 

The  Ameriean  Cheddar,  or  cream,  cheese  made  from  whole- 
niilk  contains  both  the  protein  and  the  fat  of  the  milk.  Pound 
for  pound,  cheese  is  eonsiderably  richer  than  meat  in  both  pro- 
tein and  fat.  Cheese  is  rich  not  only  in  protein  mn\  fat  but  also 
in  lime,  phosphorus,  and  growth -promoting  substances.  When 
ehee^se  is  served  as  a  meat-saver,  that  is,  cooked  in  combination 
with  other  foods,  it  is  generally  caj^ily  digestecl;  it  is  prol>ably 
the  serving  of  chc^oe  with  j>ie  at  the  en<l  of  a  hearty  meiil  that 
has  given  it  liie  undeserved  name  of  being  difficult  to  digest. 

Cream,  as  well  as  the  butter  and  ice  cream  made  from  it, 
has  a  definite  place  in  the  daily  food  because  of  growlh-proraot- 
ing  substances  and  the  high  energj^  value  of  the  fat.  The  sour- 
ing of  cream  does  not  change  its  nutritive  value  any  more  than 
does  the  souring  of  milk.  One  pound  of  butter  is  equivalent 
to  five  quarts  of  milk  in  energ>'  value:  but  counting  the  proteins, 
lime,  and  growth-promoting  factors  that  milk  contains,  three 
quarts  of  milk  will  give  as  much  total  food  as  a  pound  of  butter. 
It  is  said  that  not  only  shouhl  three  quarts  of  milk  be  usefl  in 
place  of  every  pomid  of  butter  given  up,  but  w^hen  a  pound  of 
butter  costs  more  than  the  three  quarts  of  milk,  it  is  wise 
economy  to  use  the  milk  instead  of  the  butter.  In  a  family 
where  there  are  three  or  more  little  children,  no  money  should 
I>e  spent  for  a  (K>und  of  butter  or  of  meat  until  after  an  allow- 
ance has  been  made  for  three  quarts  of  milk. 

Butter  substitutes  are  made  up  more  or  less  of  vegetable 


428  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

oils,  which  give  energ>'  but  which  do  not  contain  the  necessary* 

growth-prcmiotini^  faelors  of  butter-fat.  Beef-fat  containii  a 
small  amount  of  the  fat-8olut>le  grovvth-promotinp;  factor;  hut 
even  when  heef-fut  is  uwtl  in  the  making  of  butUT  substitiit.e«, 
the  riuantity  of  it  and  of  tlit^  .small  amount  of  butter  added, 
varie^^  Sit  greatly  tliat  the  Ijutter  sobstifute  should  not  l>e  al- 
lowetl  wholly  to  replace  butter  in  children's  ftxKJ.  Butter  sub- 
stitutes in  which  vegetable  oils  are  the  only  fat,  are  entirely 
lacking  in  this  growth-promoting  factor.  If  butter  substitutes 
are  Ui*ed,  extra  milk  is  necessary  in  order  to  keep  up  the  supply 
of  these  esseJitial  growth-proiiioting  factors. 

Boiling  is  Iwlieved  to  increase  the  ease  of  digestion  of  milk  by 
preventing  the  formation  of  large  firm  curds  in  the  stomach. 
Brief  lioiling  is  thought  not  to  injure  seriously  the  vaUie  of  i 
either  of  the  growth-promoting  factors.  Boiled  milk  seerns  in 
the  case  of  many  persons  to  have  a  constipating  etTect,  which 
may  he  offset  by  the  use  of  fruit  Juices.  This  may  be  found  to 
explain  the  cause  and  cure  of  scurvy.  Boiler!  milk  has  nU 
the  energy  vahie  of  fresh  milk.  Boiling  does  not  seera  t^i  affect 
the  value  of  the  proteiji  sufheiently  to  be  of  any  serious  dis- 
advantage. Any  injury  to  the  value  of  the  protein  by  boihng 
is  probably  due,  in  part  at  least,  to  the  coagulation  of  the  iJ- 
bunicn  of  the  milk.  Increasing  the  amount  of  milk  fed,  if  milk 
is  the  only  food,  seems  to  correct  any  damage  which  might  lie 
produced  by  boiling,  either  on  the  protein  or  on  the  growth- 
promoting  factors. 

If,  aa  occagionaUy  happens,  milk  reacts  on  the  individual  as  a 
poison*  a  special  study  should  Ix?  made  in  order  to  include  in 
the  dietary  foods  other  than  niilk  that  are  rich  in  lune.  Many 
times,  however,  a  tiislike  for  milk  may  be  confusetl  with  inabil- 
ity to  use  it.  If  it  is  merely  distaste  that  prevents  its  use,  miUc 
may  be  inctudtni  in  the  dietary  by  Ixnng  cooked  with  other 
foods.  Eggs  will  replace  milk,  if  it  is  impossible  to  itse  the  latter. 
Milk  is  a  valuable  substitute  fur  meat. 

Eggs  should  l>e  used  as  long  as  they  can  be  afforded.  When 
possible,  one  egg  a  day  should  l>e  used  for  each  qjiild  in  the  family, 
and,  if  available,  one  or  two  for  each  adult.    The  children  and 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


429 


women  of  the  family  should  have  the  egg^  first,  wince  they  need 
the  most  iron.  If  the  a^t  of  eggs  makes  their  use  imjx)ssible, 
thought  should  be  given  to  increasing  the  use  of  other  foods 
that  are  rich  in  iron.  The  cheapest  of  these  are  breakfast 
f(K>ds  or  threads  made  from  the  whole  cereal  grain.  Frequently 
it  is  objected  that  milk  and  eggs  caase  biliousness.  If  this  hap- 
pens, it  is  in  most  cases  due  not  to  the  use  of  milk  and  eggs, 
but  rather  to  the  absence  of  fruits  and  vegetables  io  the  dietary. 
Eggs  are  not  only  valuable  sources  of  iron,  they  are  also  rich  in 
lime,  rich  in  both  of  the  unknown  substances  (so-callefl  vita- 
mines)  necessary^  for  growth  and  health,  and  the  protein  of  eggs 
is  of  the  efficient  type.  Eggs  may  be  used  to  replace  meat  or 
milk. 

Meat  is  not  a  necea^iary  food  if  other  animal  foods  are  used 
in  the  dietary.  Its  greate.st  advantage  over  other  animal  foods 
is  its  palatability.  Meat  in  the  diet  of  Uttle  children  is  always 
questional>Ie.  The  protein  of  meat  is  very  subject  Uy  putre- 
faction, and  the  digestive  tract  of  the  child  is  particularly  sus- 
ceptible to  this  comiition.  The  protein  of  meat  is  a  valuable  type 
but  not  necessary  if  milk,  cheese,  or  eggs  replace  it.  Meat  con- 
tains stimulating  substances  not  desirable  for  the  normal  child. 
It  has  a  high  iron  content,  but  the  susceptlljility  of  meat  to 
putrefaction  may  often  destroy  its  value  jis  a  carrier  of  iron. 
Iron  may  often  be  introduced  better  in  the  diet  through  other 
foods.  Meat  lacks  lime  and  has  a  much  more  limited  quantity 
of  the  growth-promoting  substance  that  is  carried  l)y  certain 
fats  than  has  eiOier  milk  or  eggs,  ll  contains  the  secon<l  growth- 
promoting  substance  (page  412).  The  protein  substitutes  for 
meat  are  milk,  cheese,  eggs,  and  to  a  lesser  extent  soybeans 
and  peanuts.  Other  legumes  are  not  good  meat  substitutes 
miless  used  with  milk,  cheese,  or  eggs. 

Fruits  and  vegetables  should  lie  used  liberally  in  the  dietary, 
for  they  are  among  nature's  best  lx)dy-cleansing  and  regulating 
agents.  They  furnish  sul>stances  which  stimulate  the  activity 
of  the  intestine,  neutrahzc  the  harmful  acids  produced  hy  the 
tissues,  and  keep  both  intt»stine  and  blood  in  good  condition. 
Fruits  stimulate  digestion  and  are  appetizing  additions  to  the 


430 


A  MANUAL  OF  nOME-MAKING 


day's  focMi  Complamt  is  oftoi  made  that  at  certaia 
fruit  and  vop;t*tal>les  are  tot)  expensive  to  Im*  used  llberaUy. 
However,  tlieir  value  Ls  not  romparal»le  to  the  lo.ss  of  efficiency 
resulting  fixiiii  a  diet  that  lacks  natural  laxatives  anti  iron. 
When  apples  are  ehea[j  they  should  Ije  baker!  or  made  into  apple- 
sauce and  Hhould  he  canned  for  use  ihiring  a  season  of  seareity. 
CarrotSi  beets,  turnips,  cabbage,  onions,  and  pai-snips  art*  cheap 
at  a  time  when  other  vejz:etableH  are  expensive,  and  if  carefully 
prepared  they  arc  easily  digested;  they  not  only  give  variety 
to  the  dietary,  but  also  furuish  the  much-needed  vegetable 
material. 


I 


A  diet  enriched  liy  fruits  and  vegetables  has  a  tendency  to  fl 
revent  or  correct  anapuiia,   to  prevent  constipation  and   its  ^ 


prevent  or  correct  anapuna,  to  prevent  const ipati 
attendant  ills,  ami  to  iinj>rnve  general  health  eonditiuns  in  that 
it  increases  the  amount  of  iron  furnished  to  the  bUxxl  and  heJps 
to  prevent  a  putrefactivT  condition  in  the  intestine.  The 
leaves  and  sterna  of  plant.s  are  particularly  valuable  additiona 
to  the  dietary  in  that  they  supply  lime  and  fat-soluble  growth- 
promoting  substances. 

Those  cereals  an^l  cereal  foods  that  contain  tlie  hirger  part 
of  the  grain  should  be  given  preference  in  the  dietary.  While 
such  a  cereal  food  as  wliite  flour  retains  all  the  original  energy- 
yielding  ingredients  and  most  of  the  protein,  it  has  lost  in  the 
milling  process  the  sul)stance8  occurring  in  the  outer  layers, 
which  stimulate  the  aetix^ity  of  the  intestines,  which  help  in 
such  body  functions  as  bone-building  and  the  foniiation  of  red 
blood  (Hjrpuscles,  and  one  of  which  promotes  growth. 

White  liread  is  entirely  w4iolesome  if  thought  is  given  to  in- 
cluding in  the  meals,  in  fonns  other  than  bread,  the  substances 
lost  by  the  flour  during  the  milling  process.  This  may  be  ac- 
complished by  using  fruits  atul  vegetables  for  their  laxative 
profKTties,  milk  for  its  Hme  and  gnjwth'pmmoting  substanee^^ 
and  eggs  for  their  iron.  The  proteins  in  the  cereal  grains  arc 
not  of  the  efficient  type  and  must  l»e  supjjiemenletl  in  the  diet 
with  animal  proteins.  Cereal  gmins  also  lack  both  lime  and 
(hi*  growth-promoting  substance  soluble  in  fat. 

Sweets  in  the  dietar>^  are  unquestionably  desirable,  but  they 


1 


PLANNLW  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


4:ii 


should  he  served  in  such  a  manner  as  not  to  reduce  the  appetite 
for  other  foods  and  not  to  satisfy  thc^  appetite  with  sweet  foods 
only.  Fruits  and  vegetables,  simple  desserts  of  various  kinds, 
jam  with  l>read  at  the  close  of  the  meal,  and  candy  occasionally 
in  placr*  of  otlier  desserts,  are  the  best  ways  of  using  sugar. 
The  craving  for  sugar  betwe<:*n  meals  generally  indicates  a 
badly  controlled  appetite  or  a  poorly  fed  individual;  or  it  may 
be  the  outcome  of  some  diseased  condition  of  the  body. 

Candy  or  other  sweet  foods  eaten  Ijetween  meals  result  in 
jH)or  appetite*  Sugar  is  an  almndant  source  of  energy,  is  easily 
tligested  and  alisorbed,  and  rightly  used  it  has  its  place  in  the 
dietary.  It  hicks  altogether  any  building  foods,  and,  if  used 
in  large  quantities,  is  very  irritating  to  the  mucous  membrane. 
Therefore,  it  shoul<l  not  be  eaten  to  the  exclusion  of  other  foods. 
The  candy-fed  chiki,  refusing  as  it  does  other  foods  at  meal- 
times, is  very  likely  to  liave  poor,  decayed  teeth,  weak  bones, 
flabby  muscles,  and  a  disordered  stomach.  The  rule  should  be 
to  use  sugar  wit  h  ot  her  foods  and  at  the  close  of  the  meal. 

Enough  water  shouhl  l;)e  consumed  each  day  to  maintain  the 
body  in  a  clean,  wliolesome  condition.  It  is  just  as  necessary 
to  bathe  the  body  inside  as  outside.  Many  cases  of  serious 
bodily  disorder  are  directly  traceable  to  neglect  of  the  ncM^ds 
of  the  body  for  water.  Constipation  is  frequently  the  result 
of  insufficient  water  in  the  dietary. 

The  dietary  should  be  planned  to  meet  the  needs  of  all  mem- 
liers  of  the  family.  The  main  part  of  the  meal  may  be  made  suit- 
able for  all,  arnt  to  this  the  footls  especially  neeiletl  by  each  in- 
diviihial  may  t>e  added.  Little  children  should  not  eat  all  foods 
that  are  atlowalile  for  adults,  nor  should  the  grow^n  members  of 
the  family  be  limited  to  the  same  simplicity  of  diet  as  the  chil- 
dren, for  children  have  undeveloped  digestive  organs  that  will 
Ix?  o%*{Ttax[^d  by  heavy  foods,  Tlie  strength  of  fuotl  in  the  tliet 
of  the  chihl  should  bt*  increasecl  only  as  the  moscles  of  digestion 
strengthen  and  develop.  Fooils  that  are  too  strong  overtax 
the  immature  digestive  tract,  and  footls  that  are  too  weak  fail 
to  develop  it. 

Persona  working  hard  outdoors  eat  more  food  than  those 


I 


432  .1   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


whose  work  L^i  of  a  lighl ,  iiidtRir  character.  Not  only  are  they 
able  to  digest  easily  footls  that  are  rated  as  difficult  to  dtgestp 
but  they  may  actually  need  foixi  that  will  recjuire  at  least  mod- 
erate work  on  tlie  part  of  ihp  rlij2;estive  tract.  They  may  have  a 
disagreeable  feeling  of  hunger,  even  when  suffieicntly  fed,  if  the 
food  consunied  doe^  not  'stay  by  *^  them  for  a  certain  period 
of  time.  Just  the  reverse  is  true  of  the  indoor  worker  who  uses 
his  mu8clos  but  little.  These  factn  are  often  overlmiktid^  and 
fref|nently  the  entire  dietar>'  is  shaped  to  (he  nt»eds  of  one 
mein!K*r  of  the  family.  Hard  muscular  work  in(»rease4  the  neeil 
for  energj^-prochicing  foods  but  does  not  materially  affect  the 
need  for  other  tyix*s  of  food. 

Examples  of  desirable  food  combinations 
Some  simple  coml>i nations  will  serve  to  show  how  few  foods 
may  be  put  together  and  yet  answer  all  requinanents. 

Menu  I 

l^Tiolfvwhf'iit  hnuid 

Whole-milk 

Prunes 

A  dietary^  must  be  built  on  broad  lines  even  if  it  ks  Minple, 
and  care  must  t>e  taken  not  to  err  l>y  a  simplicity  which  excludes 
any  needed  food  constituent. 

There  are  ma[iy  persons  who  have  acquired  a  distaste  for 
milk  unless  it  is  serv^ed  in  some  c(Kiked  form.  When  this  ifi  the 
case  and  when  warm  food  is  dcj^ired,  a  meal  but  little  Ies»  simple 
than  the  one  just  sujigested  may  1k^  [>rcparcd  by  makiuf;  the 
"hearty  dLsli**  a  veKeta!>le  cream  soup.  Such  hou|:»8,  which  are 
easy  to  make,  nutritious,  and  very  delicious  if  well  cooked  and 
seasoned;  are  too  little  used  in  the  family  dietary. 

Menu  II 

Cream  of  |xi(atii  srnip,  or  any  vcgctAhlc  soup  having  i^  milk 

(onndtkiion 
Brend  and  butttT 
Pruii  or  a  sueculcnt  vcRetabU* 

Any  one  of  the  following  combinations  makes  a  well-balanc 
tneal  if  sufheient  amounts  of  the  food  ar^  consumed.    Thi8  does» 


ey    ■ 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


433 


not  indicate  that  they  aro  ideal  for  all  conditions.  Babies, 
8mall  children,  and  persons  who  have  a  weakened  digestive 
system  would  not  he  given  liaked  beans  and  firown  liread,  or 
bread  and  cheese. 


Mcnvi  IV 

Oatmeal,  with  sugar  and  thin 
crpafii  or  w!K)l«>-iiuik 

Fnili 
M(»mi  VI 

rirt*a<l  unci  cheese 

Onions 


Menu  III 

Breiid  and  butler 
Fniit  or  8omt*  vegetable 
Mrnn  V 

Baked  soybeans 
Brown  breud 
Cabbage  aalad  with 
egg  dressing 

Mc^nu  VII 
Meat 

Bresid  and  butter 
Green  vegetables 

Wnle  the  foo<I  combinations  just  given  theoretically  answer 
all  dietaiy  requirements,  they  miiy  not  be  practical  in  tho.se  ease.s 
in  which  food  hal>its  of  long  standing  lead  the  individual  to 
demand  a  greater  variety.  The  appt*tite  accustomed  to  stronger 
fare  might  pall  if  stimtdated  only  with  such  wimple  mbcturea, 

A  l>asis  for  mare  elaborate  menus  is  as  follows: 

Menu  VIII 

Cream  soup 

Bread  nnd  butter 

Meat 

Potatoea 

Cabbages 

Baked  apples  and  cream 

FOOD  FOR  THE  PROSPECTIVE  MOTHEB 

The  woman's  food  needs  are  very  little  increased  during  the" 
first  montlis  of  the  growth  of  the  chiltL  Even  if  the  appetite 
is  small  and  troui>le  is  experienced  with  nausea,  the  actual 
growth  of  the  child  is  so  little  as  not  to  be  seriously  efTective 
at  this  time,  in  most  case^.  During  the  later  months  of  preg- 
nancy the  incretise  in  food  needs  of  the  mother  are  still  compar- 
atively small;  probal>ly  not  more  than  15  to  20  per  cent  above 


434 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-AfAKlNG 


normal.  This  does  not  mean  that  the  food  for  the  prospective 
mother  is  uiiinifK>rtiint.  It  is  liiKlily  important  that  she  should 
have  an  ade<iuate  and  weU-bahinciHi  dietary.  She  needs  it  to 
kf^ep  her  eflieiericy  anil  to  [jroduee  an  elfieient  child.  It  Khouhl 
be  her  prol>lein  to  maintain  a  normally  efficient  diet»  increasuig 
it  toward  the  close*  of  the  period. 

Foods  needed  by  the  prospect ive  mother  arc:  (1)  Milk.  From 
a  pint  to  a  quart  of  milk  a  day  should  l>e  used  to  supply  lime, 
efficient  protein^  and  the  two  growth-essi^ntial  sulislaiiccs. 
(2)  Cereals  made  from  the  whole  ^rain  should  be  used  to  supply 
enerpry,  protein,  and  iron,  and  to  increiise  the  laxative  sub^l^nces 
in  the  diet.  (3)  Fruits  and  ve^etableH.  To  idve  flavor,  needed 
salts,  lime,  iron,  and  laxative  sulistanees,  fruits  and  vegetableis 
an*  essential.  CJreen  vegetables  are  esiK^ciall}'  valuable  for  the 
iron  that  they  supply.  (4)  Meat  or  ej^s  or  cheese.  Once  a 
day  meat»  ej^gs,  and  ehee^se  may  be  u.se<l,  altliough  they  art*  not 
needed  if  the  mother  reeeives  fully  a  quart  of  milk.  (5)  Bread 
and  buttpr.  The  dietary  may  be  eonipleted  with  liread  and 
f>utter.  It  is  of  t'speeial  importance  that  the  diet  of  the  pro- 
spective mother  should  be  laxative  if  she  has  any  tendency  to 
constipation. 


FOOD    FOR   TTTE   NITll.SrNG   MOTHER 

The  food  need  of  the  nursing  mother  is  increased  in  proportion 
to  the  amount  of  milk  she  produces  and  the  child  eon^iumes.  It 
has  b<'en  estimated  that  her  food  n«*<*ds  are  incrfasinl  iis  followit: 
For  the  first  3  months  alxmt  90  calories  for  each  ij<jund  of  tlio 

bal)y*s  weight 
For  the  st»cond  3  months  about  85  calories  for  each  pound  of  tho 

baby's  weight 
For  the  third  3  months;  about  80  calories  for  eiieJi  pound  of  the 

l»aby*s  weight 
For  the  fourth  3  months  about  70  calories  for  each  pound  of  the 

baby's  weight. 
This  means  a  marketi  increase  in  the  mother's  energy  needs* 
For  exatuple,  if  the  baby  weighs  10  pounds  when  it  is  a  month 
old,  the  mother  must  increase  the  calorie  value  of  her  diet  10 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS  435 

times  90  calories,  or  about  900  calorief^,  A  (juart  of  milk,  an 
eg^*  two  pieces  of  bread,  and  an  extira  allowance  of  vegetables 
will  iR'eornpIish  thin. 

The  mot  heii's  iliet,  must  supply  not  only  more  energy  but  also 
more  protein  of  good  quality,  more  lime,  more  phosphorus^ 
more  iron,  and  more  of  the  two  essential  unknown  growth- 
promoting  substanecis,  or  so-c^alled  vitamine^.  If  the  diet  of 
llie  mother  dcK^s  not  supply  efficient  food,  slie  cannot  manufac- 
ture sufficient  milk  of  good  quality  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  baby. 

Two  of  the  best  foorLs  to  increasi^  the  amount  of  protein,  lime, 
phosphorus,  and  growth-promoting  substances  in  the  diet  are 
milk  and  eggs.    Eggs  give  in  arldition  eonsiderable  iron. 

The  diet  of  the  nursing  mother  should  be  laxative,  and  con- 
sequently fruits,  miJti-flavored  vegetables,  and  breakfast  foods 
and  breads  made  from  the  whole  cereal  grain  should  play  an 
important  part.  There  is  no  troth  in  the  old  Huperstition  that 
fruits  in  the  diet  of  the  mother  produce  cohc  in  the  baby. 

FORMlTLu-VS   FOR   INFANT   FEEDING 

If  a  baby  cannot  l>e  fed  by  its  own  mother,  the  next  best 
thing  is  the  milk  of  some  other  animal  A  study  of  the  food 
needs  (page8  407  to  412)  will  soon  show  why  milk  is  practi- 
cally an  essential  food  for  little  children*  The  following  sim- 
ple formulas  may  be  of  service  to  mothers  who  are  unable  to 
nurse  their  own  babies, 

FirM  week 

First  day:  1  to  2  oimrcs  of  water  evoy  4  houre. 

Second  to  fourlli  days:  Mix  15  ounces  of  milk,  7  oimccs  of  wut4?r,  fttid  2 
teaspoons  of  milk-sufjnr,  and  di%ide  the  mixture  into  Heven  feedinj?s. 

Fifth  to  se%'<mth  days:  Mix  4  oiinecs  of  (tiilk,  7  ounces  of  water,  and  3 
teaapoons  of  ttiilk-8ugar,  and  divide  the  mixture  ioto  s^even  feedings. 

Fvrx/  it>eek  to  third  month 

Mix  5  ouncm  of  milk,  9  to  1 1  ounces  of  water,  and  3  tablespjoons  of  milk* 
sugar,  anil  diviile  the  juixtnre  into  six  or  wven  fcetiings,  Gradually  increa»*e 
the  amounts  tmtil  at  the  end  of  the  |>eriiKl  the  mixture  pontaiurt  about  \i\ 
ouni'c^s  of  milk,  H  to  18  ounces  of  Witter,  and  4  •  'j  tidilespoona  of  milk-sugar. 

Third  tmttdh  to  mxth  mottth 

Mix  m  <Kinee<s  ai  roilk,  H  to  18  tmncei?  of  water,- and  4!^  tablcsporinB  of 
milk-sutsar,  and  divide  ttie  mixture  into  five  or  six  feedings.    Gnuimdly 


I 


I 


L 


436 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


incrntaei  the  amounts  until  at  thu  rlotac  of  the  period  the  mixture  oofttaiiia 
about  24  ounces  of  mitk«  9  to  13  ouoces  of  water,  and  4JkJ  tji^iliaspocMin  of 
Ji]ilk«fiugar, 

Sixth  month  to  ninth  ffionih 

Mix  24  ounces  of  milk,  9  to  13  ounces  of  water,  and  A}i  tablespoons  of 
tnilk-^^jgiir.  Divide  this  mixture  into  five  fcM^dings,  Gradually  increase 
the  amountH  until  at  the  end  of  thin  period  the  tiiixttire  containa  30  ouneea 
of  niilkp  H  ounces  of  water,  and  3  tahlespo^^ina  of  milkH>iugar.  Cook  2  or 
3  tttl»le«iK>on8  of  barley  flour  with  the  water  used  in  the  mixture- 
Midway  betwwn  the  two  nuirning  fcedinj^  give  I  to  2  tablespoons  of 
strained,  chtuted  orange  juice. 

Ninth  month  to  twrtfth  morUh 

Mix  30  uuncca  of  milk,  t»  to  H  ounces  of  barley  gniel,  and  3  tnVile^poona 
of  milk-eugnr.  Divide  this  amount  into  five  fcH»din|cs.  Give  1  to  2  tabJiv 
spoons  of  straincHl  oriinge  or  prune  juice  betwix'ti  thn  two  morning  fecnlinf^^ 
Gradually  increase  the  milk  until  at  the  close  of  the  yx^riod  tho  child  m  re- 
ceiving a  quart  of  milk  and  a  pint  of  barley  i^ruel.  Increaw^  tlie  amount  of 
orange  juice  to  3  tabl<*«fK>onrt.  Half  of  a  t^oft-cooked  egg  may  {yo  fed  at  thin 
time.   A  piece  of  stale  or  twice^baked  bread  may  Y>e  given  the  child  to  chew, 

THE  PART  MILK  SHOrLD  PU\Y  IN  THE  DIET  DURING  GROWTH 

Food  for  a  child  iJ  lit  }S  mouth j<  old 

Breakfiv<t :  <i  to  S  ounces  of  warm  milk;  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  thoroughly 
cooked,  strained  cereal  with  top  milk. 

Mid-morning  lunch:  6  to  8  ounce-a  of  warm  milk;  piece  of  twio^tuiktxl 
bread. 

Dinner:  t3  to  8  ounces  of  warm  milk;  thin  piece  of  eri^p  toast  or  twice- 
baked  bread;  slightly  cooked  egg. 

Mid-afte^moon  lunch:  2  or  3  tablcftiioons  of  orange  juice  or  oiheT  mild 
fruit  juire* 

Supper:  6  to  8  ounces  of  milk;  1  oi  2  tablespoons  of  thoroughly  cooked, 
strained  ceriml  with  top  milk. 

Type  of  meals  for  children  18  fmmlhs  to  $  ifmrn  M 

Breakfast  (6:30-7::i0  A.  M-):  Warm  milk  with  lightly  buttered  bread;  or 
cereal  with  thin  cream,  glass  of  warm  milk;  or  lightly  cooked  egg,  lightly 
buttered  brcAd,  gla^s  of  warm  milk, 

Mid-mnniing  meal  (10  A.  M.):  tMaj?8  of  milk  with  slice  of  brrail* 

Dinner  (1-2  V,  M.):  Ma.slad  |M»tnto  with  fli^h  gravy,  bread  and  milk, 
very  liniall  w^rving  baked  apple*  or  prune  pulfi;  or  lighlly  rHw»kiM|  egg.  bread 
and  milk,  .small  w^rving  l)ak*'d  apple  or  prune »  or  tmisluHl  npinach,  rarrt>t«i, 
or  similar  vpgi»tablc%  liread  and  milk,  small  serving  very  simple  jimket  ur 
rice  pudiling  or  similar  j^imph*  d<*ssi'rt . 

Mid-aftemotin  mpul:  tablespoon  of  orange  juice  or  scraped  apple* 

Supper  (5-6  P.  M,):  Bread  mid  milk  or  milk  toaat. 


1 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


437 


Although  the  child  may  be  at  the  faiiiUy  table  from  about  the 
third  year,  he  .shouid  not  l>e  allowed  the  freetJoin  of  the  family 
dietary.  It  Is  far  better  for  the  child  to  Icara  that  eeilain  foods 
are  not  for  his  consumption.  There  is  no  better  lesson  in  self- 
control  or  temperance  than  the  one  that  may  be  taught  in  this 
simple  way. 

Typa  qJ  tneois  Jot  children  2  to  4  years  old 

Breakfast  (7-8  A,  M.):  Ccrea!  with  thin  cream,  milk  to  drink,  or  lightJy 
cxiokrHl  CKg  wiili  tuvuAi  x\m\  rnilk. 

Mid-rnorniiiK  meal  (H)-ll  A.  M,)*  Hrt-ad  and  milk- 
Dinner:  Lightly  rtioktxl  f*gg,  buttenxl  baked  potato,  bread,  milk,  stewnl 
fmit;  m  niashfd  vc*g< 'table??,  snch  a.H  Hpinnch^  j>ur6e  of  j)ea«,  or  earrots, 
breitd,  milk,  light  pudding,  such  as  riee  or  l»rcad  pudthng  or  junket,  or 
occ^onally  n  simjile  iee  ereiim;  or  bread  and  nulk^  baked  ptitato  and  one 
other  veget4il>h%  small  nerving  of  i)itdding. 

Supper  (5-G  P,  M.):  Bre-ad  and  butter,  milk;  or  cereal  mush  and  mUk;  or 
bread  and  milk,  and  stjewed  prunes  or  apple-sauce. 

Type  of  nteoh  for  children  4  (o  S  years  old 

BrciikfaMt  (7-S  A.  M.)r  Stew(Hi  fruit;  cereal  with  whole  milk  or  thin 
cream,  brcatl  and  milk;  an  egg  may  Ix*  addinl  to  iJiis  mf^al. 

Mid-moming  meal:  Milk  with  thin  slice  of  bread  and  butter. 

Dintier  (12-1  P.  M.):  Lightly  otKjketl  egg,  spinuch  or  peas  or  l>eans  well 
mashetlp  baked  potato  or  Ixjiled  rice,  stowed  fruit  or  light  pudding. 

Supper:  Wcll-ew>kf^  cereal  \dth  thin  cream,  milk  to  drink,  stewed  fruit; 
or  lightly  cookwl  egg,  bread  and  butter,  milk  to  drink,  bake<l  apple. 

Tyf}e  of  mfJdfe  for  chiMren  from  8  to  12  years  old 

Breakfast:  Cereal  with  tliin  cream;  eggs,  poached,  boile<l,  or  scram  bled  j 
milk  with  bread  und  butter;  fruit  may  bo  eaten  at  this  meal. 

Mid-mf>rning  meal:  Gkiss  of  milk  and  a  cracker. 

Dinner:  Smidl  ]iiee(*  *)f  .steak  or  roiist,  fish  or  chicken;  potato,  rightly 
cooked  cabbage  or  other  vi»getablej  bread  and  butter  and  mdk;  some  simple 
dessert,  sueh  as  custard,  bread  and  jelly,  or  fruit. 

Supper:  Eggs  or  cream  soup  or  milk  toast,  bread  and  butter,  milk, 
stewed  fruit  or  liread  and  jelly. 

Ty})e  of  m^alji  for  Imy^'i  and  girls  12  to  16  years  old 

Brcakfa.st:  Stewfxl  or  fresh  fruit;  well-cooked  cereal  with  thin  cream  or 
whole  milk;  bread  and  Ijutter;  milk  or  cocoa;  eggs,  if  available. 

Luncheon  or  supper:  .Scalloi>cd  hominy  and  cheese;  bread  and  butter; 
milk  or  cocoa;  fruit,  raw  or  ettoked. 

Dinner:  SmalJ  serving  of  meat  (a  meat  subatitute  may  be  UBed);  maahed, 
baked,  boiled  tjr  creamed  ]X)tatoes;  a  liberal  serving  of  some  succulent 
vegetable;  bread  and  butter;  milk;  a  simple  de««ert. 


(HAPTEU   XVIII 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 
By  Anna  Httnn 

The  housewife  has  the  duty  and  privilege  of  spending  for  U 
on  an  average  of  at)out  30  or  40  per  cent  of  the  family  irteome, 
HerH  18  the  tremendous  re^sponsibility  of  S4:*eiug  that  the  family 
in  supphed  with  Umd  neees^sary  for  its  growth  and  maint^^uarice 
at  it?*  highest  efficiency,  (lood  buying  is  liaaetl  ofi  knowledge. 
This  knowledge  nuiy  lie  obtained  only  through  praetic»«*  m\d 
8tudy,  The  houst*wife  should ,  therefore,  l>e  alert  nn<l  ([uiek  to 
seize  every  opportunity  to  know  more  of  the  pnxluetion,  the 
marketing,  the  nutritive  valuiN  and  the  eost  of  the  Vii;*t  number 
of  articles  which  she  h:is  to  buy.  She  is  expected  to  Ijc  exi>ert 
in  the  buying  of  not  only  one  article,  but  hundreds.  She  haa 
an  unlimited  field  for  study. 

A  good  buyer  plans  for  the  present  and  for  the  future.  She 
carefully  considers  the  material  in  the  storeroonis,  ice-boxe^, 
and  gardens,  and  plans  to  buy  only  that  which  will  supplement 
or  enable  her  to  ust*  the  ftMKl  ulrejuly  on  hatid.  The  next  step 
is  to  visit  the  markets.  The  good  buyer  rarely  t^jlephonesc 
The  exceptions  to  this  rule  would  be  an  emergency  call  or  the 
bu>'Tng  of  standard  jiroducts,  such  a.s  sugar,  cereals,  spices,  or 
known  brands  of  gen  ids. 

The  housewife  uses  the  senses  of  sight,  touch,  taste,  and  smell 
in  her  final  judgment  of  food.  It  is  quit«  as  esst»ntial  that  she 
should  use  the  same  senses  in  buying  food.  To  do  thii§  it  is 
necessar>^  that  she  shfiuld  go  to  market.  For  bu>ang  commodi- 
ties it  might  be  well  to  have  the  followng  |x>ints  in  mind:  A 
definite  amount  should  be  onlered  in  pounds  or  definite  meas- 
ure; the  unit  price  of  the  commodity  should  l>e  a^scertained ; 
correct  scales  and  me^isures  should  be  used  and  the  full  amount 

438 


I 
I 
I 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


43d 


paid  for  delivered-  To  check  the  measures  and  weights,  cor- 
rect scales  and  measures  should  be  a  part,  of  eveiy  kitchen 
equipment  (page  129). 

BUYING   FRESH   OR   STAPLE    FOODSTUFFS 

Kind  of  food. 

The  kind  of  food  which  the  buyer  seeks  is  based  on  the  family's 
standard  of  li\'ing.  Such  as  may  quite  properly  be  l)OUght  by 
those  who  can  afford  it,  may  not  be  at  all  suitable  for  those  with 
a  smaller  income. 

In  order  to  choose  wisely  l>etween  two  or  more  foods,  the 
housewife  should  know  the  nutritive  value,  the  proportion  of 
etlible  and  non-edible  material,  and  the  cost.  This  knowledge 
eomes  only  through  study  and  comparison. 

Grade  of  food. 

After  the  buyer  has  decidetl  on  the  kind  of  food  to  buy,  tlic 
next  step  is  to  select  the  grade  best  suited  to  individual  neeiis. 
To  be  able  to  judge  of  grades,  it  is  necessary  to  know  the  stand- 
ard products,  or  to  know  the  qualities  that  enhance  and  the 
qualities  that  decrease  the  value  of  the  food. 

In  the  case  of  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables,  the  stantlard  prod- 
uct should  l>e  well-matured,  sound,  free  from  blemish,  uniform 
in  size  and  shape,  of  good  color,  fresh,  dean,  and  well  packcMJ. 
Most  of  these  qualities  may  be  determined  by  the  eye,  some  by 
the  touchy  and  others  l>y  the  odor  and  the  taste.  Among  grades, 
as  among  foods  themselves,  there  are  differences  in  nutritive 
value,  in  proportion  of  edible  and  non-ediljle  material,  and  in 
cost.  These  differences  may  be  deternnnetl  only  by  .^tudy  and 
comparison.  Selection  of  meat  is  discussed  on  page  510,  and 
canned  foods  on  page  445. 

Up  to  the  present  time,  most  food  has  been  graded  from  the 
point  of  view  of  the  producer  rather  than  of  the  consumer. 
Few  foods  have  been  graded  and  laiieled  so  that  the  consumer 
and  the  merchant  can  talk  on  the  same  basis,  l^ntil  this  is 
done,  it  will  be  difficult  for  the  housewife  to  buy  intelUgently. 
She  should,  however,  read  carefully  the  labels  on  all  packages 


L 


440 

showiug  the 
tent^. 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


net   weights    and    the  composition   of    fhe   cnn- 


AmoufU  to  be  bought 

After  the  kind  and  grade  of  food  have  been  decided  on,  it' 
next  necessary  to  determine  the  definite  amount  to  buy,  which 
depends  primarily  on  such  factors  as  the  following:  The  aniount 
allowed  for  one  person  (this  amount  in  the  basis  of  |i;)ood  buyini? 
and  if  pro|x^rly  estimated  insures  enough  food  for  all  and  elimi- 
nate^s  to  a  great  tlegrec*  the  problem  of  left-over  food  [see  Tabl^" 
XXII] );  the  numljer  to  !>e  fed;  the  numlx^r  of  time^  the  food  b* 
to  be  served;  the  keeping  qualities  of  the  food  (the  amount 
bought  should  be  small  enough  to  prevent  depreciation);  the 
available  storage  facilities;  the  amount  of  money  available  to  in- 
vest (interest  on  the  money  invt^te<i  in  food  should  l>e  abided  to 
the  cost  of  the  food) ;  the  terms  of  contract;  the  relative  ad  van- 


TABLE  XXIL— Servinqs  or  Vegbtablrs  in 

One  PouKt> 

Appro;rim(Ue  sUe 

Nun^itr  aervinfft 

VegetMe 

of  Hcrvinq 

inannpofmd 

Asparagus 

H  cup 

4 

Beans,  dr>' 

H  cup 

^^ 

B(*an3^  Btring .  . 

Hc»ip 

■ 

Beets 

Hcup 

4^   m 

Cabbage   . 

%  cup 

3 

CaitoU 

H  cup 

4-« 

Cauliflower 

?4CUp 

M 

Cdery. 

M  cup 

m 

Onions .                                           .... 

H  cup 

m 

Parsnips    .                                      , . . . 

H  cup 

m 

PoUtoea. 

%  cup 

m 

Subify..,. 

H  cup 

m 

BrtisBcla  sprouts 

3  tJ  cup 

5-6 

Spinach 

H  cup 

4 

Squash,  summer 

'  J  <'«lp 

1-2 

Squash,  winter . 

'-  Clip 

2-8 

Sweet  potatoes . 

1    lM)t4l!u 

3-4 

Swiss  chard 

'2  <^^ip 

3-4 

Tomatoes 

'  2  fUp 

3-1 

Tumir>« 

H  ^*up 

4-5 

I 


MARKETING'FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


ta^es  of  buying  in  large  quantities;  the  season  of  the  yeai  (it  is 
l>est  to  buy  large  amounts  of  kmd  for  storage  when  the  new  crops 
eome  in ;  this  is  esi>eeially  trm^  of  drieii  fruits  and  many  grain 
products,  which  come  on  the  market  but  once  a  year) ;  the  cost. 

Bulk  or  unit  package. 

W\ien  the  amount  to  be  bought  has  been  deteJinined^  the 
housewife  must  iJeiide  whether  to  buy  in  bulk  or  package,  and, 
if  in  package,  the  size  of  the  unit.  It  is  generally  cheaper  to  buy 
in  bulk  than  in  package.  (Sec  Table  XXIII,)  The  package 
costs  more  because  of  the  container  and  the  labor  involved  in 
packing  and  handling.  The  package^  on  the  other  hand,  lias 
the  merit  of  being  air-tight  and  dirt-prooL  For  these  and  of lier 
reasons  it  is  preferred  by  some  persons.  It  is  possible,  however, 
for  the  gi'ocer  to  keep  food  in  bulk  in  a  satisfactory  and  sanitary 
condition.    Buying  in  bulk  usually  necessitates  storage  in  moist* 


TABLE  XXIII  -  ( TjMpAaisoN  or  Cost  of  Food  Bought  in  Packarb 

AND    IN 

Bulk 

Food 

CoMtof 
package 

Weight  or  tnetuiure 
of  cofUetUii  nf 

Amount  obtainable 
in  hfdh  for  the 

package 

same  mcmfiy 

Bacon , . .  , 

.38 

9  ounces 
16  ounces 

13.3  ounces 

Cocoa 

30.4  ounces 

Cocoanut 

.04 

3.5  ounces 

5 .  75  ounces 

CtxIUsh 

24 
.35 

.05 

16  ounces 
16  ounces 
24  crackers 

20  nunc^pfl 

CotTce 

17,5  ounces 

Crackers  (soda) 

35  rrackera 

Crackers  (pxabiun). 

10 

33  crat^kprj* 

48  crackers 

Gmf^r  snaps . 

.05 

5  ounces 

8  ounces 

Gmger.  .    .      ,    _  . 

.075 

4  ounces 

6  ounces 

Macaroni 

JO 

12.5  ounces 

16  ounces         * 

Peanut  butter 

.30 

20  ounces 

27  ounces 

Peas  (a  can) ,  , 

.18 

2  cups 

4  cups  cooked 

Raisins. 

135 

15  ounces 

16  ounces 

Rolled  oiilH. 

13 

20  ounces 

23  ounces 

Sill  tines.  _  . 

15 

45  crackers 

IMi  crackers 

Sturch . 

(>9 

1 6  ounces 

l9.5onnrc8       J 

Tapiapii 

.25 

16  ounces 

19  ounces          1 

Vint^giir 

24 

1  quart 

2  quarts 

L 

■^^^^^^H 

^^^ 

^            ~  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^1 

442 

A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING                   ^fl 

urc  and  vermin-proof  receptacles.     iSurh  recepiaclw  ai^ntmu* 

late  in  every  household  and  should  be  saved  for  this  purpooe« 

Units  of  sale.                                                                                    h 

Most  coniniDdities  are  «old  by  the  pound.    The  tendency  tiM 

t<J  increase  the  number  thus  sold,  since  the  pound  is  an  exacts 

TABLE  XXIV.— Units  in  which  Vegetables  are  Sold  in  Ninv  Yohk 

State 

VeffetabU 

Unii                          M 

A«pamgii8.  -. 

Hiinth  varii'B  from  Hf  to  2H  pounds ■ 

Beans,  string. . 

P«iinfl;  25-tKnjnd  hamper                    fl 

Be&ns,  lima , ,  . 

Piiiinil  in  jmh\;  quarts  when  ahelled    ■ 

Beeta.. 

Pound;  bunch                                       ^| 

BniMclit  sprouts 

Quart                                                     a 

Cabbage 

Puund                                            .^^^1 

CttbbiMce,  Chitu  s 

Pound                                             ^^^H 

(Cauliflower 

Pound;  crati^;  hamprr                  ^^^H 

Carrots  _ 

Pound;  bunch                                 ^^H 

Cillery 

Bunch,  12  stalks  in  a  bunch         ^^^| 

(I'om 

Di>sen  ^t^                                    ^^H 

Crf«8 

Pound                                           ^^M 

CucumbcrH 

Piece;  dozen;  hamper                   ^^^H 

ERKplant. 

Piix-r;  crate;  hamper                    ^^^H 

Hf>rsi*-ra<lish  riwH 

^^^H 

Kale 

^^^H 

Kohlrabi 

Pound                                           ^^^1 

Leek* 

^^^H 

Lottuce 

Ib^;  dozen  heads                       ^^^H 

MuflbrtMurj- 

^^^H 

( >nions 

Pound                                            ^^^1 

Pnndry 

liunch;  dozen  bunchcn                 ^^^H 

l\ir8iiif»K 

^^^H 

I'ocis 

liiLsht*!  mcasurL'                            ^^^H 

IVppi^rH 

Piece;  dozen;  barrel                     ^^^H 

HotakK*** 

^^^H 

I'ufn|»kin 

^^M 

Hnclif*h»-,H 

Bunch;  dnsen  bunchm                ^^^| 

Hdtncitru* 

Pound                                         ^^H 

SqiiJi,«ih 

Pound                                          ^^^B 

'I'iltllHto*"' 

Pound;  Hiandard  ^  bushel  emte      S 

1  urnij»8 

Pound                                                  H 

»^kify  (vf^K»*tubU'  c»\>,trr) 

Bunch;  dozen  bunch*^                           H 

^             ^ 

MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


443 


TABLE  XXV.—Units  in  whicb  Fruits  ahe  hold  in  New  York  Statb 


fruit 

Unit 

Appl«.    . 

Pound;  standard  barrel  (3  btisbds) 

Apricots 

C'alifornia  crate*,  22  potnids 

BaoAoafi 

Pound 

Berries 

Qiiiirt;  crate  ttf  32  quarts                         M 

Cantaloupes 

Pound;  crate  act^ordinK  to  size               ^ 

Cnin  berries . 

Pound;  100  pounds  in  a  barrel 

Gmpe  fruit 

Piece;  box  of  from  4^  to  9Q  gnipefruit 

Crapes. 

Pound 

Lemons 

Dozen;  box  of  from  300  to  300  lemona 

C)ranjst',s 

Dozen;  Imjx  of  from  [M]  to  250  orangi.^ 

I^caches 

Pound;  standard  ji  bushel  peach  basket 

Peurs.  . 

Pound 

Pini'appli's 

Pi<K*e;  case 

Plunis 

Standard  H  bushel  basket                     M 

Qyinees 

Bv  measure                                           1 

Rlmbftrb ...... 

Pound                                                  I 

WuterTJielon . 

Pieee                                                            | 

measure^  whereas  tlie  hunch  or  basket  or  other  eoiitamer  is  tc 
often  unstandarciiaetL    (See  Tables  XXIV  and  XXV.) 

Price, 

The  price  to  pay  depeods  on  market  conditions.  The  market 
and  crop  conditions  nuiy  be  k^arned  by  a  stiifty  of  the  inaiket 
reports  in  the  daily  newspaper's.  The«e  prices,  however,  are 
generally  wholesale  prices,  and  since  the  latter  are  not  always 
reflected  in  the  retail  market,  they  serve  only  as  a  guide.  Local 
crop  and  local  market  conditions  may  be  such  as  either  to  lower 
or  raise  the  retail  [jrice.  In  order  to  obtain  the  lj€st  price,  it  is 
necessary  for  the  houstnvife  to  study  the  prices  at  the  local  stores 
and  then,  if  possible,  compare  them  with  prices  of  some  out-of- 
town  firm. 

Where  to  buy. 

The  question  of  where  to  buy  may  be  settled  by  buyinp;  where 
the  maximum  value  can  be  obtained  for  the  minimum  price. 
This  place  can  be  determined  by  a  study  of  markets.  It  is  al- 
ways advisable  to  know  the  sanitary  conditions  surroimding  the 


k 


AAA 

MM  X 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME'iMAKmO 


prodyction  and  marketing  of  the  prociucts.  There  is  also  to  be 
considered  the  fa<*ror  of  (liscounts,  generally  basc^d  on  the  amount 
Ijougtit,  the  tinie  and  place  of  delivery,  and  the  deliver>*  charges^ 
When  buying  from  out  of  town,  it  is  necessur>'  to  consider  the 
cost  of  freight  and  cartage.  C'heapne^s  does  not  always  mean 
good  quality  or  full  weight.  Every  food  at  a  reduced  pri<^  is 
offered  for  one  of  two  reasons:  Ijecause  the  market  is  over- 
supplied  ;  or  because  the  owner  Is  af raitl  to  rii^k  further  deprecia- 
tion. In  mo.st  cases  tliis  depreciation  has  ah*eady  set  in,  and  it  13 
unwise  to  buy  8uch  food  unless  it  can  be  used  immediately.  If 
the  dealer  is  selling  goods  Ijelow  the  market  price,  the  goods  are 
generally  below  the  market  standards.  Only  an  expert  can 
know  a  bargain. 

Inspection  of  goods  on  delivery. 

On  arrival  at  the  house^  goo<^ls  should  im  opened  and  examined 
as  to  grade  and  condition.  If  not  acceptable,  they  .should  be 
returned  at  onc*e.  The  goods  should  be  checked  with  the  in- 
voice for  quantity  and  weight,  price  of  units,  and  total  coats.  The 
invoice  should  \ye  filed  to  check  with  the  weekly  or  monthly  bill. 

Record^s. 

In  the  case  of  staples,  it  is  often  desirable  to  keep  a  stock 

Stock  Record^ — Suuak 


I  tu>  V 


1 


I 


Price  a 

ToUU 

Yearly  can- 

Dale 

,4  fflaUfU 

pound 

cmi 

hit*enl4j/ry 

sumpHtm 

{Pounds) 

{D<illar$) 

{DoUars) 

iPouTuU) 

iPoufuU) 

191G 

8/17 

5 

m 

45 

8/28 

10 

m 

,80 

9/5 

25 

m 

I  25 

9/20 

15 

07  ij 

I   14 

1917 

2/10 

m 

05 

2  50 

4/15 

25 
130 

05 

I  25 
7  39 

9/7 

18 

112 

9/21 

im 

09 

9  00 

A 


J 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


445  I 

enables  fl 


record.  The  form  of  record  as  here  suggested  for  sugar 
one  to  tell  at  a  glance  the  date,  the  amoimt  bought,  and  the 
price  paid  for  the  article  in  cjuewtion.  The  housekeeiwr  has  in 
these  stock  cards  a  basis  on  which  to  buy  for  the  coming  ye^r. 
In  case  no  other  records  (page  177)  are  kept,  it  is  desirable  to 
include  the  name  of  the  firm  from  whom  the  goods  were  bought. 

StoToge, 

The  proper  storing  of  food  is  very  impoj-tant,  liecause  only 
by  having  good  storage  conditions  can  there  be  profit  in  bti^ang 
in  large  quantities.  It  is  dej^iirable  to  have  cool,  dry,  and  well- 
ventilated  store-rooms  (page  583),  Fresh  vegetables,  fresh 
fruits,  and  dried  vegetables  and  fruits  should  Ix^  kept  in  such  a 
stomroora,  and  should  be  so  packed  as  to  allow  free  circulation 
of  air.  The  exceptions  to  this  rule  are  sweet  potatoes,  which 
should  l>e  stored  in  a  dry,  warm  place,  and  banana.H,  which 
should  never  be  allowed  to  chill  since  this  causes  them  to 
blacken.  Staples,  such  as  cereals,  flours,  sugars,  and  other  dry 
products  should  be  kept  in  diy%  moderately  cool,  well-ventilat«d 
storage.  Meat,  fish,  butter,  and  milk  may  be  kept  at  a  lower 
temperature,  36°  F.,  or  lower. 

Low  temperature  and  lack  of  moisture  lx)th  tend  to  retard 
the  growth  of  micro-organisms  that  cause  spoilage.  Most 
storage  foods  should  be  well  matured  before  being  stored  and 
should  Ix^  looketl  over  at  certain  intervals  for  the  removal  of 
any  decayed  or  spoiled  portions* 


BUYING   CANNED    FOODS* 

Grading  fruiis  and  vegetablen  for  cannuig. 

Before  one  can  distinguiah  the  relative  values  of  market 
grades  of  canned  goods,  it  is  iiecess-ary  to  know  how  these  are 
determinetl  by  the  packer.  For  fruits  and  vegetables  the  lines 
of  quality  tletermination  are  much  the  same  and  as  follows: 

*  The  ffilluwinj?  diseussiijn  of  canned  fcxxls  is  comien-spd  from  Catine<! 
Foods,  Fruits  and  Ve|?etebi**s,  l>y  Florence  R.  Corbiftt,  Todi.  Education 
Bull.  18,  Teachers  College,  Caiambia  University. 


I 
I 

I 

I 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKISQ 


IjocalUy  in  which  the  fruit  or  tegHatle  m  grtntn, — ^Naturmtly 
the  fniiU  and  veis^UiUei  prodtaeed  in  seciioos  iriiere  isxpeft 
tfirdemng  or  fmit^rawiiK  prevaib  and  which  natnniOy  favor 
fluch  cropn,  will  lie  superior  in  quality.  Of  the  most  commoa  and 
widely  med^  those  growD  in  the  northern  states  are  superior  in 
Usxture  and  flavor  to  thoHe  grown  in  the  Souths  and  becauae  of 
tlic  firmer  texture  ** stand  up"  better  in  packing. 

Siu  of  the  fruit  or  vegetable, — The  larger  the  fniit,  provided  it 
in  iinifonn  and  go<xi  in  other  re*^pect.s,  the  higher  it  will  be  graded* 
The  Hmalier  vegetabfe  are  graded  highest^  since  they  are  gen- 
erally younger  and  t^^nderer,  juicier,  and  sweeter. 

Flavor  w  an  irnp^jrtiint  factor  to  the  consumer,  but  does  not 
take  prf*cc»clence  of  hizc,  texture,  and  color  in  grading  either 
fruiu  or  vegctabkvH,  becaOKc  the  buyer  Ls  generally  influenced 
by  the  handsome  appearance  of  fruits  or  the  delicate  appear- 
ance of  immature  vegetables  which  may  be  quite  la<"king  in 
flavor  The  public \h  preference  l^  taken  into  coa^ideration, 
and  fine-flavonxl  prfxlucts,  not  notable  for  nzQ  or  color,  may 
be  grafled  lower  than  thowe  of  pleasing  appearance  and  infer- 
ior flavor,  A  striking  illastralion  of  thi«  is  found  in  the  pref- 
erence for  very  small  pean  which  consist  principally  of  skins, 
water,  and  a  little  sugar.  Because  of  pubUc  prefcrtrnce,  these 
are  grafted  higher  than  the  larger  peas  of  rich  flavor  and 
nutritive  value. 

Trxlun.    -Viw^  texture  is  a  characterLstic  of  high-grade  fmi 
ufid  vegetahlcH.     Tough  peas  and  Ix^ans,  tibrous  okra  and  as^ 
f)anigu?<  arc  gntd(*ci  lc»\v% 

Color.  —The  natural  color  of  the  product  when  at  its  best 
is  the  standard  of  the  high-grade  pack.  Unfortunately,  tho 
attempt  to  ernuhite  nature  hiis  lxM>n  overdone  by  some  packers 
to  thi»  I  mint  where  most  of  the  public  havit  come  to  regard  cop- 
per-gret*ned  |kvis  and  t>eans  as  sufierior  to  those  of  nature^a 
green.  Now  that  the  law  requires  that  the  facts  rogarfling  tho 
use  of  coloring  matter  be  stated  on  the  package,  the  public  is  in  a 
poHition  to  choose  f>et ween  the  natuml  and  the  artificial,  the  safe 
and  the  possibly  hannfuh  Fortunately,  it  is  the  fancy  gnidcs 
of  vegetables  which  receive  the  copper  treatment,  such  as  the 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD  447 

ver^'^  8mall  peas  ami  beans  in  which  the  nutritive  value  is  low  and 
the  price  prohibitively  high  to  the  average  buyer.  Even  when 
the  natural  color  of  the  vegetable  after  cooking  is  the  standanl 
sought,  gratling  of  the  prothict  is  still  done  on  co!or  lines.  Peas 
that  have  an  occasional  yellow  one  in  the  lot  are  graded  lower 
than  those  uniformly  green,  while  if  many  are  yellowish  the  lot 
is  gradeil  low^r  still.  String  beans  containing  an  occasional 
brown  or  rusty  pod  are  graded  lower  than  those  uniforraly 
green. 

Form,  whole  or  ciiL — The  fruit  or  vegetable  of  suitable  size 
wliieh  is  sufficiently  perfect — free  from  bruise  and  spots  of  de- 
cay—to can  wiiole  is  of  tlie  highest  grade,  provided  it  grades 
high  on  other  points.  Those  cot  in  halves  grade  next  highest, 
such  as  peaches,  apricots,'pears,  and  ajjples,  and  those  in  slices 
next,  Buch  a.s  sliced  peache.s.  Smaller  pieces,  sometimes  re- 
ferred to  as  chips,  grade  low^er  yet.  Pineapple  sUce^^  afford  the 
highest  gi'ade  in  that  fruit,  the  chunks  and  cubes  grading  next 
and  the  chipped,  grated,  and  crushed  pineapple  respectively 
lower. 

Preparation,  peeled^  unpeeled^  pitted ^  cored, — ^Those  fruits 
which  are  improved  by  peehng  are  left  unpeeled  only  in  the 
lowest  grades.  The  same  is  true  of  pitting  and  coring,  except 
when  the  fruit  is  handsome  in  appesu^ance  but  unsound  at  the 
pit  or  core. 

Medium  of  packing. — Fruits  packed  in  water  are  of  the  lowest 
grade  and  generally  known  as  **pie"  fruit.  Those  packed  in 
sirups  are  graded  according  to  the  density  of  the  sirup,  35*^  to 
40**  sirup  being  used  for  preserves,  such  as  strawberries,  30°  to 
34°  for  fancy  peaches,  plums  and  other  fruit  for  table  sauce; 
25"  to  28''  for  high-grade  fruits  for  table  sauce;  20''  to  23°  for  a 
still  les8  rich  grade  of  table  sauce,  and  lO'^  to  20**  for  ver>"^  light 
sirup  suitable  only  on  sweet  fruits  or  those  to  which  more  sugar 
will  be  added  in  preparation  for  the  table.  J oicy  vegetables  such 
as  tomatoes  are  now  by  law  required  to  be  packed  in  their  own 
juice.  Other  vegetables  nmst  be  packed  in  as  little  water  as  is 
neccssiiry  to  immerse  them  completely.  A  httle  ,salt  and  sugar 
are  allowed  in  the  hquid. 


I 

I 
I 

I 


448  A  MANUAL  OF  BOMB-MAKING 


Trade  terms. 

''Pie  fruit''  is  the  lowest  class  of  fruit.  In  peaches  there  s^ 
two  grades,  the  uopeeled  and  the  peeM,  the  latter  bnnging  the 
higher  price. 

The '' standard  "  grade  of  fruit  rank^  next.  It  ha^  the  tightest 
mnip  aad  consists  of  the  relatively  inferior  fruits  in  siae,  eokkr, 
flavor,  and  texture. 

'* Extra  standard,"  ^' extra,"  and  ''fancy"  are  terms  applied 
to  grades  increasingly  gqod*  If  fruits  grade  high  as  to  variGly^ 
color,  size,  flavor,  texture,  and  are  packed  in  bca\*3'  !$irup,  they 
will  be  graded  as  Fancy,  and  fruits  less  good  will  fail  into  the 
other  group  grades  according  to  the  degree  in  which  ihcy  ap- 
proximate the  grade  called  Fancy,  and  according  to  the  weight 
of  sirup  used.  That  it  is  quite  impossible  under  this  S3rstein  to 
depend  on  the  tenn  Fancy  representing  the  same  quality  of 
fruit  year  after  year  is  easily  seen,  for  the  crops  yielded  of  various 
fruits  are  seldom  of  the  same  standard  in  successive  yeare.  The 
same  is  true  of  any  grade*  In  a  good  year  the  trade  known  as 
Standard  may  prove  l)ctter  than  the  Extra  Standard  in  a  poor 
year.  This  makes  for  uncertainty  on  the  part  of  the  purchaser, 
and  amy  buyer  of  large  quantities  of  canned  goods  finds  it  nee- 
essarj^  to  see  the  contents  of  tins  selected  as  samples  and  to  order 
according  to  sample  as  well  as  by  grade  and  trade  name.  The 
small  buyer  is  at  a  great  disadvantage  in  being  unable  to  do 
this. 

The  trade  terms  for  grades  of  vegetables  are  in  g^eneral  the 
same  as  for  fruits*  The  poorest  of  southern-grown  produce  and 
the  trimmings  of  northern-grown  are  graded  below  standard. 
In  tomatoes  these  gut)*standard  grades  are  sometimes  known  as 
"pulp*  and  ''pur^^Z'  In  peas  they  are  known  as  ''seconds" 
and  "soaked/*  This  last  term  refers  to  peaa  that  have  grown 
too  hard  for  canning  purposes,  but  have  l>oen  soaked  in  water 
from  twelve  to  thirty-six  hours  and  then  canned. 

Quality  of  mnnml  goods. 

On  opc*ning  the  can  the  vnhitne  of  the  contents  in  relation 
to  the  capacity  of  the  can  should  be  noted.    The  contents  should 


I 

1 


I 


I 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


449 


fill  the  can;  any  considerable  space  between  the  top  of  the  can 
and  the  surface  of  tlie  contents  sFioiihl  count  a^^ainst  the  grade 
of  the  product. 

Any  excei58  of  ht|uid,  that  is,  more  tlian  is  necessary  to  im- 
merse the  8ohds,  lowern  the  p:radc  of  the  paekaRe. 

The  presence  of  any  foreign  materia!  such  an  drops  of  solder 
or  bits  of  paper,  which  indicate  carelesH  methods  in  packing, 
should  be  looked  for, 

Peas^ — In  canned  peas,  a  very  cloudy  or  starchy  liquid  prob- 
ably indicates  that  the  pea^s  have  l>een  *' soaked/^  This  would 
be  confirmed  by  the  peas  being  mealy,  large,  and  with  skins 
easily  loosc^ned  in  the  can.  Since  peas  are  graded  according  to 
size,  those  known  as  ** sifted/'  whatever  the  size,  are  higher  in 
price  tlian  the  unsifted,  sometimes  known  as  **the  run  of  the 
garden/^  A  large  nundjer  of  yellowish  peas  in  a  can  indicates 
inferior  quality  and  flavor. 

String  beans. — The  smaller  string  beans,  less  than  two  inches 
in  length,  are  high  priced  and  more  decorative  than  nutritious. 
Those  over  three  inches  in  length  are  coarse.  Those  between 
two  and  tliree  inches  are  generally  satisfactory'.  The  ''cut" 
beans  are  cheaper  l)ut  not  unifonnly  gooiJ  in  flavor  and  texture. 

Lima  beans. — ^The  smaller  lima  beans,  bush  Umas,  are  higher 
in  price  and  generally  of  a  better  color  than  the  large  beans, 
pole  linias. 

Corn, — C^anned  com  that  is  verj^  milky  or  full  of  hquid  may 
be  sweety  but  it  does  not  grade  so  high  as  the  dry  packs  ajid 
does  not  keep  so  welb 

Okra, — Young  okra  is  tender  and  the  pods  are  canned  whole. 
This  !>rings  a  better  price  than  the  older  pods  which  are  cut 
before  being  packed. 

Spinark. — Clood  spinach  is  packed  whole,  that  is,  the  leaves 
are  not  cut.  The  chopped  packs  lack  the  fresh  flavor  of  the 
other  and  their  quality  is  less  certain. 

Tomatoes. — Tomatoes  "hand  packed*'  and  "cold  packed" 
are  put  whole  into  the  cans  while  raw  and  steamed,  so  that  they 
are  cooketl  in  their  own  juice.  If  any  additional  juice  is  re- 
quired to  till  the  crevices,  it  is  supposed  to  be  tomato  juice 


I 


J 


450 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKJNO 


Tomatoes  so  packed  are  sufjcrinr  to  those  eookecl  before  the 
cans  are  filled,  ami  will  he  foiind  praetii-aliy  whole  when  the  caii 
is  opeaed. 

Fntita, — All  larj^e  fniits  are  more  expensive  in  tins  than  are 
small  fruits,  tierause  the  tias  are  more  solidly  filled  with  the 
latter  and  more  portifrns  c*an  l>e  w^rved  from  a  tin  of  j^iven  sixe. 
Of  the  large  fruits  canned  wiiole  or  in  lialves,  neither  the  largest 
nor  the  smallest  are  the  most  economical  investment,  but  rather 
the  medium  mze.  This  is  l)ecaiLse  portions  are  made  by  the 
piece  rather  than  the  spoonful  and  the  very  large  pieees  are  few 
to  the  tin,  while  the  very  small  necessitate  two  or  more  pieces 
l>cing  served  to  the  portion.  Large  fruits  l)OUght  in  the  cut 
form,  for  example,  pc;ach  slices,  peach  chips,  and  pineapple 
chips,  are  most  economical  of  all,  for  the  same  reason  that  small 
fniits  are  economical. 

Safe  and  unmje  tin  cans, 

**Sanitanj**  cans, — Until  the  last  few  years  it  was  the  general 
custom  to  seal  tin  cans  hy  soldering.  It  was  inevitable  that 
some  small  portion  of  the  solder  should  be  exposed  to  the  action 
of  the  contents  of  the  can»  ami  frtKiuently  drops  of  solder  were 
lost  among  the  con  tenths  of  the  can.  The  *'  sanitary*'  can  is  now 
used  by  the  test  packei-s.  In  this  can  the  foo<l  Is  hermetically 
sealeil  w^ithout  the  use  of  solder  by  a  clever  mechanical  device 
which  folds  and  compresses  the  overlapping  edges  of  the  top  and 
sides  of  the  can.  Such  cans  are  stamped  ** Sanitary'*  on  one 
end,  and  the  consumer  should  discriminate  in  their  favor  for 
his  own  safety  and  to  encourage  the  ase  of  the  best  methods  in 
packing. 

Lacqtier-lined  cans, — ^To  prevent  the  tmdesirable  reaction  be- 
tween acid  fniits  and  vegetables  and  the  metal  of  the  cans,  all 
tins  employed  for  packing  foods  of  strongly  acid  character 
shoulfl  Ik?  lacquer-linwl  l\v  a  heat-resisting  varnisli.  This  is 
especially  imjwrtant  since  the  cost  of  tin  has  advance*!  and  the 
tin  covering  of  sheet  met4tl  used  for  the  manufacture  of  cans  has 
become  v^vy  thin. 

Ruskd  mns. — Cans  rust^  on  the  exterior  are  not  evidence 


MARKETING  FOB  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


of  deterioration  contents,  but  cans  rusted  on  the  interior  may 
have  an  undesirablf!  effect  on  the  food.  Experience  shows  that 
soldered  cans  are  often  so  rusted  at  the  sf>ldered  end. 

''Swells.'' — ^Imperfectly  sterilized  foods  often  produce  gas, 
which  bulge-s  the  ends  of  cans  and  sometirae^s  causes  the  can  to 
burst.  This  is  more  Ukely  to  occur  in  the  case  of  those  foods 
that  contain  the  least  acid  and  are  most  difficult  to  sterilize, 
such  as  corn.  Reputable  distributors  will  accept  such  ^oods, 
known  as  '* swells/'  if  the  swelling  has  occurred  within  a  time 
limit  set  at  the  date  of  sale,  and  will  reimburse  the  buyer  to  the 
amount  of  the  bill.  It  is  difficult  for  the  small  buyer  to  return 
such  packapjes  to  the  retail  dealer  for  credit  unless  he  can  prove 
that  he  has  had  the  j^oods  but  a  short  time  and  has  kept  thera  in 
a  cool  place.  Quantities  of  swelled  cans  are  returned  constantly 
to  packers  and  tlistributoi*s,  and  unscrupulous  handlers  of  such 
goods  are  known  to  have  returnetl  them  to  the  market  by  the 
proc&ss  of  puncturing  the  can  along  tlic  side  to  allow  the  escape 
of  gas,  then  re-heatinp;,  re-sealing,  and  re-labeling,  Such  prac- 
tice may  be  detected  on  opc^ning  the  can  by  the  presence  of  the 
punctured  and  soldereil  spot.  Needless  to  say  the  use  of  food 
80  processed  is  most  unsafe* 

Labels  and  trade  names  or  brands. 

The  Interests  of  the  consumer  necessitate  that  the  label 
shall  declare  the  name  of  the  packing  company,  the  place  of 
packing,  the  weight  of  contents,  the  amount  of  liquid,  the  me- 
dium of  the  pack  (water  or  sirup),  the  grade  of  the  product, 
and  the  name  and  address  of  the  distributors  or  jobbers.  All 
this  should  appear  whether  the  goods  are  packed  in  the  state 
where  they  are  sokl  or  in  another  state.  The  date  wlien  packed 
should  be  stamped  in  the  tin,  as  the  word  *' sanitary"  now  is  in 
some  cans. 

In  order  that  the  statement  regarding  gra^le  of  gootls  may  not 
lie  misleading,  it  is  ne(!essary  that  ti-ad**  names  of  grades  have 
uniform  significance  for  packers  and  tliat  the  use  of  the  uni-' 
form  grading  methods  and  nomenclature  1ji*  required  by  law. 
At  present  only  experience  enables  one  to  know  just  how  good 


I 


1 


I 


d 


452  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

is  the  ^'best"  grade  of  any  given  packer'8  product.  All  ''best*' 
grades  are  not  now  by  any  means  equal  If  the  definitionfs  of  the 
grades  are  printed  in  fine  type  on  the  label,  it  18  helpful  to  the 
buyer.  The  consumer  niim;lit  te  aided  further  by  the  color  of 
the  label  declaring  the  grade  of  the  package  contents.  Thus  a 
white  laljel  might  bo  u.sed  for  products  of  the  highe^st  grade,  and 
red,  blue*  green,  yellow  in  the  order  of  decreasing  quality.  Tlie 
business  of  determining  grades  would  necessarily  be  an  annual 
.matter^  and  eouM  prolmbly  best  Ije  done  by  a  jointH*omiiiittee 
representing  the  producers,  the  packing  interests,  and  the 
fWeral  govermnent. 

Qimntity  mlue. 

Among  dealers  the  size^  of  packages  of  canned  good^  are 
designated  by  t^mis  that  refer  to  weight  expressed  in  pounds. 
The  common  sizes  or  capacities  are  1,  2,  2J^^  3,  and  10  pounds, 
and  are  briefly  designated  as  Is,  2s,  2}/2S,  'As,  and  10s,  Doubtless 
at  some  time  in  the  past  the  packages  conttiined  the  weight  of 
food  indicated  by  the  numerals  assigned  to  the  cans.  But  keen 
competition  and  the  demanci  for  low-priced  articles  have  gradu- 
ally shrunk  the  rapacity  of  the  cans,  wiiile  the  descriptive  nu- 
merals have  remained  unehangetl.  Thus  a  can  known  as  No.  2 
size  may  actually  weigh  1  f)ound  and  G  f)unces.  A  No,  3  can 
generally  weighs  about  2  jMJundH  antl  8  ounces,  A  No  *  10  can 
is  above  the  average  if  it,  weighs  8  pounds. 

It  may  be  that  no  hann  is  done  to  distributors  and  largie 
buyers  when  every  one  understands  the  situation  and  no  one 
is  deceived.  But  the  average  retail  buyer  not  only  has  not  this 
knowledge  of  conditions  but  does  not  even  know  w^hether  he  is 
buying  by  weight  or  measure.  To  him  caimed  peas  are  graded 
as  25-cent  cans,  22-cent  cans,  20-cent  cans  and  18-eent  cans. 
When  he  choosers  the  larger  of  two  cans  at  the  same  price,  he 
does  not  know  whether  it  is  the  heavier  can.  If  it  is  the  heavier, 
he  does  not  know  until  h«^  *»p?Ms  it  whether  the  extra  w*eight  bi 
due  to  an  excess  of  htjuitl,  or  solidity  of  pack,  or  excc^ssive  weight 
of  tin  can  and  solder.  Such  buying  is  of  course  absurdly  ex* 
travagant. 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


453 


I 


8    S 


I- 


S     S     3 


i    s 

3     » 


n 


s    £    li    e 


i    8 
CO    :<; 


o       o 

2    a 


2    :« 

o 


®      •      8      ° 
^^     J      «^^      ^ 

i  i  i  i 


s 


i    i    8 


8      8 


00 


:*:    :*; 


i  i  I  i     d  i 

C<  M  M  Ol '■^  C< 


e 

i 

E 


9  N 

-I 


2 


o  8 


•8=2 

If 


|H   SS  |£   |» 


•8 


454 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Suggestion  for  the  consumer. 

In  buying  canned  goodsy  one  should  not  choose  the  cans  be- 
cause of  the  pictures  on  the  labels. 

One  should  not  hesitate  to  require  of  the  dealer  as  much  in- 
formation regarding  the  quantity  and  quahty  of  canned  food 
as  regarding  a  purchase  of  food  in  any  other  form. 

Influence  should  be  u.scd  to  obtain  legislation  that  will  re- 
quire uniform  standards  for  all  packers  in  all  states;  uniform 
laws  regarding  laljeling  for  all  packera  in  all  states;  and  lal^ek 
declaring  accurately  the  quality  and  quantity  of  the  content^s 
of  the  can,  and  giving  the  weight  of  solid  materiaU  and  tlie 
measure  of  liquid. 

References 
U.  8.  Dept,  of  Agr.,  Fannors'  Bull.,  203. 
V,  S.  Dcpt.  of  Agr.,  Bur,  of  Chem,,  Cirt!,  54,  Analysts  of  Caimed  Praa  and 

Beonii. 
U.  8.  Dept.  of  Commerce  and  Lubor:  Onstis  Bull,  on  Mimufiictunas,  1902. 

BuU,  61,  Census  of  Monufacturea,  1905. 


i 


CHAPTER   XIX 
FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 


By  Flora  Rose 


Only  such  directioni^  for  feeding  the  sick  will  !>e  given  as  may 
be  of  service  in  minor  illnesses  treated  witliout  tlie  advice  of  a 
physician  or  a.s  may  aid  in  carrj^ing  out  the  directions  of  a  phy- 
sician in  more  serious  illnesses. 

In  all  sickness  the  diet  should  be  a  matter  of  some  considera- 
tion. A  change  from  the  comparative  activity  of  health  to  the 
comparative  passivity  of  most  cases  of  sickness  means  in  itself 
a  readjustment  of  dietary  habits*  Many. disorders  are  caused 
partly  l>y  diet  and  are  in  turn  niuch  affected  by  dietarj-  changes. 
Colds,  constipation,  indigcjition,  and  some  case-s  of  fever  are  of 
tills  nature. 

Sick  persons  need  as  much  energy  as  well  ones  who  live  under 
the  same  conditions.  Moreover,  fever  patients  are  using  up 
considerably  more  encrg\"  than  well  persons.  Nevertheless,^ 
at  the  lieginning  of  any  illness  which  may  have  been  affected 
by  food  eaten,  it  is  generally  desirable  to  rest  the  digestive 
tract  by  a  day  or  more  of  fasting  and  by  several  days  of  moder- 
ate diet.  If  there  is  prospect  of  a  protrac^ted  illness,  a  fasting 
period  is  ysually  limited  to  one  day.  If  tbe  illness  is  brief  and 
particularly  if  food  aggravates  it ,  the  fasting  period  may  be  ex- 
tended over  two  or  even  three  day^,  depending  on  the  response 
and  vigor  of  the  patient. 


I 
I 


FLUID   DIET 

Generally  illness  means  that  the  body  is  below  par  and  cannot 
stanti  the  strain  of  even  normal  conditions.  This  necessitates 
reducing  all  kinds  of  work  which  the  individual  would  normally 


455 


A 


456 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


do.  The  digestive  orgaa^i,  as  well  m  other  parts  of  the  body^ 
must  have  rest.  The  food  should  therefore  be  reduc^ed  in  total 
amount  and  should  Ix*  of  a  kinti  that  is  readily  digested  aiid 
absorl H'd.  Foods  in  a  fluid  or  soft  condition  meet  this  require- 
ment most  satisfactorily.  They  are  dilute  and  have  as  a  rule  a 
rather  low  focnJ  vah^f^  A  fltiid  diet  ha**  in  ^t^neral  a  food  value 
lower  than  actual  body  nee<ls.  This  is  dcj^irable  in  mwt  cases 
in  which  rent  for  the  digc*stive  organs  is  of  prime  importance. 
A  fluid  diet  may  Ixt  m  constitutt»d,  however,  a»  to  meet  actual 
food  needs.  The  food  value  of  the  fluid  diet  must  depend  oq 
the  condition  and  needs  of  the  patient. 

TABLE  XXVII.— Foods  fob  a  Ftrii>  Dtar 


1 
I 


K*nd  af/ovd 


Bfoihs,  cl««r  aoupn,  b<teJ  ttiit 


Beef  Juiof^ 


C«K!&1  gmc'U . 


Quaiificati/mB  a*  food 


Acrveable  to  XjuH*, 
»tti»ulaliJiR,  com- 
forting^  Oood  u 
c&rrifm  of  citru  nu"^ 
triljon,  »url:i  u  c>«- 
rtsab  and  esKa^  Lour 
Id  foot!  vaftte. 

l-IiuiiLv  iliffostcd  pro- 
tein ftjOil.     Eipcn- 

Wtisi  vnkmhle  sick'* 
room  food.  Kan  ntl- 
round  Qutniivo 
valttiv      T?*   a   iKtKid 

Ciirr:.      ■  "        '     '-  u\i- 

iri.  u". 

iin*!  'I     I'. .i;  > 
pi>iir.       \:    ,  ■  .1 . 

Itt^i.-.  I  .,.-  i 

octryA  •:<  ■ 
caf  y  ^'.  ■ '.  ■  i 
init  r       , 

of    «T«/ai 

cui  be  incnteapd. 


•1.     If 


in    (frijri 


VlUunbtc  to  inrrfft** 
milr:'  'of 

oth^  Ii  na 

fmit  ]>\i^-\  -  k!y[  vnih 
brtjih  or  itniHi  A 
viU  untile  All-round 
food. 


Proportiitn* 

for  wiakimg 


!•  jnotand   meftt 


1    ouncf  cf^rcftl   lo 

1  -|t.  ifirni.jr 
_'  inaiiotrj  rt'ivjil  to 

I  rjr,  wati«f 

I  qt,  nulk 

r  ,^1    ,,.,'k 

'•    • I"  -    »!f\'hit- 

itr^i    crrriil    ta     1 

qt.  urnlcr 
0  onnrf«  d«*3itiift- 

if«d   c^'ftNd   to    I 

(|t.  milk 


C««ii 


JtJmiiaf 


1    cup   giva 
25  <    • 


#«■■ 


FOOD  FOR  THK  SICK 


457 


l.Ht  meal: 

cup  milk. 

2rui  meal 

1  c^g  white 

3rd  meal. 

4th  meal: 

5th  meal: 

Cth  meal- 

7th  moal: 

8th  meal: 

sugar. 

mh  meal: 

A  lijpimi  7ncal  plan  for  a  tefnporary  fluid  diet  hatritig  low  food 
vulue. 

The  following  diet  is  low  in  calorie  value  and  must  I>c^  in- 
creased as  800U  as  possible.  Food  should  be  given  every  two 
hours. 

1  cup  ccrciil  gruel  made  \nth  milk  or  J^  cup  coffee  with  l^ 

Fniii  juice  with  egg  (}i  cup  fruit  julee,  I  to  4  tcasfx>ODS  sugar, 

li.  f^Np  water). 

1  cup  broth  *jr  beef  ten. 

I  cutj  cereal  f^niH  made  wiih  milk. 

14  t*u[>  fruit  juice  dilutetl  wilh  '2  ^'wp  water. 

1  cup  cereal  )a;ruel  made  with  milk, 

1  euji  broth, 

H  cup  milk  mixed  with  1  egg  and  swc?ctcned  with  1  teaspoon 

1  cup  broth  or  beef  ten, 

A  typical  meal  plan  for  a  fluid  diet  for  a  tasting  lUness, 
The  followin^j  diet  may  be  planned  approximately  Ui  meet  the 
food  needs  of  lite  patient.    If  tlie  illness  is  to  l>e  of  lonK  dyrationi 
this  is  necessary.    Food  should  he  given  every  two  hours. 

1st  mexxl:  1  cup  cereal  gruel  made  with  milk, 
2Bd  meal:  1  cup  coeaa  or  milk  flavoreil  with  coffee, 
3rd  meid:  Alhuminizefl  fruit  juice  (J^  cup  fruit  juice,  1  to  3  te«spoong 
BUgar,  1  egg,  l^  mp  water), 

4th  meal:  Creatu  soup,  with  egg  otMod, 

5th  meal:  I  cup  eerrjl  gruel  flavored  with  beef  extract. 

6th  meal:  I  eup  milk  flavon^d  with  orange  juice. 

7th  meal:  1  cup  albuminized  fruit  juice, 

8th  meal;  1  cup  cereal  grucL 

9th  meal:  1  egguog. 

SOFT  OR   SEM[-30Ln)   DIET 

Many  sick  per>?ons  thrive  better  on  a  soft  diet  than  on  a 
fluid  one.  This  is  particularly  true  for  those*  persons  who  dis- 
Hke  milk.  \  soft  diet  is  tlie  first  step  after  the  fluid  diet  arjd 
may,  if  necessary,  replace  it. 

Foods  for  a  soft  or  semi-solid  diet  are:  Toast  made  with  miUc, 
cream,  water,  or  beef  juice;  custards,  whips,  Junket,  gelatins, 


458 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


soft  puddings;  omelets,  soft-cooked  eggs;  thoroughly 
strained  cereals. 


LIGHT  OR  CONVAJ.ESCENT  DIET 

Light  diet  should  be  given  in  convalescenre  following 
fluid  and  soft  diets,  and  in  tho.'^  cases  not  needing  s] 
dietary  consideration.  It  i.s  the  normal  diet  for  the  passi 
condition  of  the  resting  or  inactive  person.  The  nature  of  the' 
light  diet  mast  depcmd  on  the  nature  of  the  disease  and  the 
vigor  of  the  patient.  In  general  the  following  food  would  bo 
included.    Thrcx?  meals  a  day  are  given  in  a  light  diet. 

Foods  for  light  diet  are:  Fruits:  fruit  juices  or  cooked  fruits^ 
Cereal  foods:  well-cooked  cereals,  strained  if  necessary;  rice  am 
macaroni;  thin  dry  toawt.     Vegetables:  fresh  spinach;  celery 
strained  peas;  potatoes?,  baked,  lx)iled,  or  masheii     In  somi 
cases  vegetables  must  be  omitted  altogether,  a^*  in  acute  i 
digestion;  in  others  they  should  be  included.     Fats:  butter, 
thin  cream.    Meats:  not  more  than  one  small  serving  a  day 
broiled  chop  or  steak;  meat  broths.      Milk:  plain,  in  eggnog, 
m  cream  soups^  in  simple  d(»Hserts.    Eggs:  soft-cooked,  omelets^ 
souffle,  custards.     Hiniple  desserts;  custards,  junket,  ice  cream,, 
gelatin  de^sserts,  cooked  fruits  or  cereal  puddings. 


CAKE  ANT}   FEEDING    FOR  INCIPIENT  COLDS 

If  colds  are  recognized  and  treated  at  the  very  beginning, 
they  may  generally  l>e  controlled  soon.    They  are  most  oftea 
the  result  of  fatigue,  overeating,  and  a  run-down  conditio] 
and  can  Ix*  suppressed  by  rest  and  careful  diet.    As  soon  as 
person  feels  any  symptoms  of  cold,  the  following  treatment 
recommended;  ^ 

1.  A  mild  cathartic.    An  effective  cathATtic  if  taken  on  an  empty  stoi 
18  oocnpoeed  of  1  Hltghtly  rounding  t4>aspoon  of  rmH  (7  grams),  to  1  qi 
of  WfttcT.    The  entire  amount  sJioiild  he  taken.    On  mmg;  in  the  morniiig 
in  the  bent  time,  wfice  the  stomach  is  then  normally  empty. 

2.  A  prriod  of  foAting.    Ejit  no  fcxxl  exf^ept  watex  and  a  httJe  fruit  jiiii 
for  24  hours,  or  until  the  eolci  ha»  b<^en  broken. 

3.  WuUt     Drink  t-J  ghiss  «>f  water  eviry  hour  or  half  hour  during 
day.    A  little  lemon  juice  may  make  tliia  eaater  to  drink. 


1 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 


450 


4.  Rest.    Stay  at  home  for  at  least  24  hours,  and  rest  and  sleep  as  much 

OH  ptiKsible  during  tfiiit  tinio  in  a  well-vc*iitihited  but  comfortably  warm 
nHiui,    Avoid  drafts  and  duingeH  in  tenjjM^rature. 

5.  Fooft.  Whrn  the  r<ild  bt^gins  to  yii'ld»  as  it  will  in  most  cases  in  12  to 
24  hours,  break  the  fant  with  m  lipht  iiic^al  of  milk  toast.  Bo^n  thon  with 
a  light  laxative  diet  of  Inw  fuel  value.  Fruits  and  mild  vegetables,  fruit 
juices,  crisp  toast »  and  woll-euoked  ttire^iLi,  lightly  cooked  eggs^  milk,  milk 
soups  or  gruels, 

CARE  AND   FEEDING   FOR   CONSTIPATION 

Many  serious  illnesses  may  \ye  caused  by  chronic  constipa- 
tion. Liver,  kidneys,  pancreas,  and  even  the  heart  may  be- 
come (ianiaged  }>y  continiieil  absorption  of  the  poisonous  prod- 
ucts of  a  clogged  intestine.  It  is  always  dangerous  to  allow 
a  chronic  condition  to  become  established  in  which  day  after 
day  intestinal  wiistcs  accumulate.  They  may  ferment  or  putrefy 
and  produce  poisons  wliich  damage  the  body  seriously. 

Use  of  drug^. 

Whereas  it  is  probably  better  to  empty  the  inte^stines  with 
some  medicine  rather  than  to  retain  the  waste  material,  this  is 
nevertheless  a  poor  makeshift.  The  continued  yse  of  laxative 
drugs  is  certainly  not  advisaljle.  If  a  pei'son  suffers  from  chronic 
constipation,  every  effort  should  be  made  to  locate  the  cause  and 
to  correct  the  difficulty.  The  cathartic  should  be  used  as  an 
emergency  measure  only. 

Use  of  saH  water. 

Perhaps  the  simplest  and  least  harmful  way  of  cleaning  out 
the  intestine  of  an  adult  is  by  the  use  of  what  is  known  as  a 
physiological  salt  solution^ — 1  slightly  rounding  teaspoon  of 
salt  (7  grams)  to  1  quart  of  w^arm  water.  The  entire  quart 
may  be  necessary,  and  it  should  l>e  taken  on  an  empty  stomach. 
One-half  honr  or  more  t>efore  breakfast  satisfies  this  condition. 
Slightly  more  or  less  salt  may  be  needed  in  some  cases  to  make 
this  solution  effective. 

Causes  of  constipation. 

Constipation  is  in  many  cases  due  to  the  following  conditions: 


460 


A  MASVAL  OF  HOME-MAKIXG 


L_^V 


faillire  to  «labtMi  regularin^  in  empuini;  the  inU^tiifis;  lade 
of  proper  exercise;  wrong  diet ;  and  insufficient  water.  Its  em^ 
in  time  eoMi,  mmi  be:  taking  time  to  coltiVBla  llie  ImbH  of 
cmptyiiig  tbe  intastfaie  at  a  rc^^ar  liour  each  day;  caieneMiiig 
in  «uch  a  way  a^  to  strengthen  the  abdominal  mtiadcs  (rmpid 
waQdog  is  ^ood  for  this);  following  a  laative  diet;  drinking 
more  water. 

LaxaiimfoodM, 

I.axativc  foocJ;^  include  most  fruit.s  and  vei^etables,  and 
fooda  and  bremLn  containiofc  the  whole  of  the  cereal  grain. 
i»  inadvijiiable  if  a  finer  meal  will  accomplish  the  result* 
tinoed  uae  of  over-coarse  foods  i»  unwiise. 

Hyffienic  ireaimefU  arui  dki  for  eonstijniiwn, 
Tho  following  treatment  is  recommended  for  persona 
ing  fnjm  coru^tipution : 


licfoTt  IrreaMfaM:  Oo  rbitipt  drink  two  glaaies  o/  imler,  or  lake  Hw  nit 
anhition  MUggimicd  on  pngc  4.59,  Ttikc  tight  cXffdse  for  6c*vrnil  minutiv  to 
§trpn|£thf*n  the  alxlominjil  mti^ics* 

Brrakfatft:  SUm^wJ  pruiiMi»  or  fiiotj  or  other  fniit;  oatmeal,  or  nlbcr  whole 
ocroal,  tiud  milk;  egg^,  if  desired;  graham^  or  whole  whmt,  or  oatnitml 
bread;  water  to  driiik^  if  di'sirod, 

ftetwrrn  brtuk/oMl  and  hiuth  or  dinneri  S*j<in  after  hreakfaet  make  ihm 
\M%irmufi  of  eftahlishing  the  habit  of  omptyini^  the  intestitus  datly  ail 
thiM  hoiir.    Allow  20  to  30  numittti  for  this  purpose,  if  necessary.    Drink  j 
orir*  or  two  gloMca  of  wattT,    Take  a  brLnk  walk, 

IHnntn  Memtf  or  meat  sidistituto;  fxitat^^K's;  a  liberal  ^rving  of  twnled  | 
onioai  or  oabbftfe  or  Horne  HUc«njleTit  veKetabte;  htvtul  jmidr  iumi  whole 
cwreal  mfn.!;  two  gltyaca  of  water  to  driuk;  slewed  fruit  or  gmham  pudding  ^ 
or  BOfTie  fruit  di*«>iert. 

Beltvtfn  dinntt  and  tnipper:  I>rink  one  or  two  gla^cA«^  of  water;  take  somo^ 
liriwk  exercim;;  if  hungrj',  cut  some  fruit  but  not  hint;  vha^. 

Lunch  or  nuppeti  ^lacilrt>ni  and  ehecsto  or  a  crt-aim  aoiip  or  suniW  duihH 
ftimo  coarno  bread;  fniit  naiad;  oatmeal  cookies;  two  gUmoa  of  water  to  J 
drink. 

After  Mvppcr:  Allow  ei  short  period  of  brisk  exercise;  eat  an  apple»  onuige* 
or  other  fruity  if  hungry,  but  no  other  food;  dhtik  oai;  glass  of  water  during 
the  evemafc. 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 


461 


DIET  DtTRING  A  CONDITION  OP  INTESTINAL  PUTREFACTION 

A  number  of  causes  may  contribute  to  a  condition  of  inte 
final  putrefaction.     It  is  generally,  though  not  always,  associ-' 
atcd  with  constipation.    Hincc  putrefaction  means  decomposi- 
tion of  the  proteins  and  the  consequent  production  of  abnormal, 
eaj^ily  absori>ed,  but  detrimental,  products,  efforts  should  be 
made  to  conquer  the  condition  as  soon  as  possible. 

The  diet  must  be  regulated  to  eliminate  a  part  of  the  total 
protein  but  particularly  to  re^luce  those  proteins  most  subject 
to  putrefation,  namely,  meat  and  eggs.  The  animal  protein 
included  may  be  in  the  form  of  milk  or  mild  American  (Cheddar) 
cheese.  Foods  that  check  putrefaction  l>y  fermenting  slightly 
should  be  given.  These  are  in  general,  fruits  and  vegetables. 
If  constipation  exists,  it  imist  be  corrected.  Drinking  water 
liberally  helps  to  reduce  intestinal  putrefaction.  If  the  condi- 
tion is  acute,  a  day  of  fasting,  with  salt  solution  (page  459) 
to  cleanse  the  intestine,  followed  by  a  hght  la.xative  diet  with 
eggs  or  meat  eliminated,  ma^^  be  advisable. 

CARE   AND    DIET   FOR   INDIGESTION 

By  indigestion  is  meant  a  more  or  less  acute  irritation  of  the 
digestive  tract.  It  may  be  caused  by  fatigue,  worry,  rapid  eat- 
ing, WTong  foods,  too  mucli  food,  l>adly  prepar-ed  foods,  too  little 
exercise,  overwork,  eating  when  weary,  or  a  run-dowii  condition. 
Its  treatment  consists  in  eliminating  the  cause  and  relieving 
the  difficulty. 

Rest  of  body,  mind,  and  digestive  tract  are  often  necessary. 
A  moderate  amount  of  outdoor  exercise,  com  I  fined  with  changes 
in  diet,  improvement  in  sleeping  hours,  and  proper  regulation  of 
all  habits  is  important  in  helping  to  overcome  indigestion. 

If  indigestion  is  chronic,  the  meals  should  be  limited  to  three 
pimple,  easily  digest>ed  meals  daily  {see  light  diet,  page  458),  and 
nothing  eaten  Iwtw^een  meals.  Any  habit  of  constipation  must 
be  corrected  by  right  regulation  of  diet.  Fatty  and  over-sweet 
foods  must  be  avoided  and  one  should  determine  whether  any 
special  foods  are  causes  of  the  difficulty,  and  avoid  them.  If 
indigestion  is  acute,  to  fast  with  complete  rest  for  a  day  or  two 


462  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


d 


k  the  best  pitK:«dure.  If  thin  feemA  a  severe  pragrao^  small 
BsmunU  of  fruit  juice  or  clejir  meat  l>roth  may  be  used  several 
ttiiies  a  day  during  this  time,  WlieD  food  is  resumed^  ft  limited 
fluid  diet  should  be  followed  for  two  or  three  day»  (see  fluid 
diet,  page  455)  and  (gradually  changed  int^  a  light  diet.  Under- 
feeding f<ihould  be  the  rule  until  the  digestive  organs  have  re-j 
BUitied  their  balance, 

DIET  IN   FEVER 

The  old  adage,  "stuff  a  cold  and  starve  a  fever"  has  been 
completely  reversed.  Colds  are  now  star\'ed,  while  fevers  are 
Btarved  only  long  enough  to  re.st  the  digestive  organs.  Thenw 
after  effort  is  made  to  supply  sufficient  food  t-o  keep  the  body 
from  any  eonniderable  loss  of  tissue.  This  is  particularly  well 
ilhjstrated  in  the  modem  treatment  for  tj'phoid  fever. 


i 


Generai  direcUant  for  feeding  f ever  patients. 

1.  R<«t  the  fligentive  tract  for  a  day  or  longer  by  a  reduction  of  to 
food.    Cinultiatly  iticreaso  the  amount  of  food. 

2,  At  all  times  give  only  those  foods  which  are  reaclily  digested  and  alv 
lorbed.    A  fluid  dift  may  be  best. 

3,  (live  a  anmll  qyantity  of  liquid  very  frequently  since  ihlfst  ia  Stisat 
at  this  time  and  ahould  be  relievetl. 

4.  Give  food  in  HmaJl  quantitjc«  at  fn^quent  intervak,  from  IH  t4i  2  ^ 
hourH.  Tlie  otiiline  of  a  fluid  diet  of  high  fuel  value  (page  456)  will  gjvi!  H 
some  idea  of  the  needs  of  fever  patienta  and  ways  of  meeting  these  xiceds. 

FoodB  wh  kh  may  be  used  in  fever, 

1 .  Milk  may  bt-  uhixI  up  to  1 H  to  2  quarts  a  day.  It  may  be  modifkd 
by  dihilinn  it  with  wit^^r,  or  by  adding  cooked  cereal,  creain,  milk-sugar, 
egg,  or  malted  milk*  Ita  taste  may  he  modified  by  adding  beet  cxireet, 
ooooa»  oolf  ee,  or  tes. 

2.  n«ar  ntmpif  sueh  as  broths,  bcTcf  te^,  and  beef  jui6e  may  be  used. 

3.  Kggt*, — Frofth  eggs  may  lie  used  up  to  4  or  aometimes  6  a  day.  They 
may  \ic  fed  mw,  in  milk  or  fruit  juice,  or  they  may  be  very  slightly  eookecL 

4.  Crtmm  nmy  Ijc  Uiiwd  in  moderate  quantities,  and  must  be  used  with 
caution  since  fat  in  likely  to  overtax  the  digestive  organs. 

5.  Sugar, — ^The  beeit  nugnr  18  milk-sugar,  since  it  is  only  slightly  sweet.  H 
Up  to  6  or  8  ounces  may  be  UBed  daily.  V 

6.  CertaU, — W^-oooked  eereals  may  be  steftoed  and  given  in  milk  as 


A 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK  463 

7.  Soft  toast  may  be  used  in  those  cases  in  which  difficulty  is  experienced 
with  a  fluid  diet. 

Diet  for  typhoid  fever. 

A  diet  high  in  fuel  value  is  now  used  for  typhoid  patients, 
the  condition  of  the  patient  governing  the  amount  of  food  given. 
The  following  modified  milk  diets  illustrate  high  calorie  pos- 
sibilities of  a  simple  fluid  diet. 

0 

Modified  Milk  Diets  for  Typhoid  Fever* 

Calories 

For  1000  calorics  a  day: 

Milk,  1000  c.  c.  (1  quart) 700 

Cream,  50  c.  c.  (1-2/3  oz.) 100 

Lactose,  50  gm.  (1-2/3  oz.) 200 

This  furnishes  eight  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,  120  c.  c.  (4  oz.) 80 

Cream,  8  gm.  (2  dr.) 15 

Lrfictose,  6  gm.  (13/^  dr.) 24 

For  2000  calorics  a  day: 

Milk,  1500  c.  c.  {VA  quarts) 1000 

Cream,  240  c.  c.  (8  oz.) 500 

lactose,  125  gm.  (4  oz.) 500 

This  furnishes  seven  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,  210  c.  c.  (7  oz.) 140 

Cream,  30  c.  c.  (1  oz.) 60 

Lactose,  18  gm.  {\M  dr.) 72 

For  3000  calorics  a  day: 

Milk,  1500  c.  c.  (IH  quarts) 1000 

Cream,  480  c.  c.  (1  pint) 1000 

lactose,  250  gm.  (8  oz.) 1000 

This  furnishes  eight  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,  180  c.  c.  (6  oz.) 120 

Cream,  60  c.  c.  (2  oz.) 120 

Lactose,  30  gm.  (1  oz.) 120 

FOOD   FOR  TUBERCULOSIS  PATIENTS 

Tuberculosis  is  almost  always  accompanied  by  fever.  Un- 
fortunately lack  of  appetite  may  be  associated  with  the  in- 
creased food  need  that  is  due  to  fever  and  wasting  tissue.  The 
problem  is,  therefore,   threefold:   (1)  to  increase  the  appetite 

*  Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,  January,  1912. 


464 


A  MANUAL  OF  UOHB-MAKtSG 


4 


by  fi^ah  air  and  mild  exercise;  (2}  to  plan  a  diet  whidi  is  ^aOy 
dig^bed  and  which  mil  maet  the  incF^^ed  food  Deeds  at  tbe 
aame  time;  and  (3)  to  build  the  body  by  rest.  laber^  use  of 
mflkr  q^f  cream,  butter,  green  vegetables,  fruits,  and  whole 
cereal  grairiB  is  desirable,  Fat^  are  especially  needed,  since 
tlicy  have  a  high  fuel  value  for  a  limited  bulk*  Cream*  butter^ 
whole-milk  rhce^,  vegetable  oil^^  cod-liver  oil,  bacon,  and  meat- 
fatH  uf  various  kinds  are  usefiiL  The  real  problem  is  to  provide 
a  templing,  well-balanced,  high  calorie,  easily  digested  diet. 


CHAPTER  XX 

BEVEMAGES 

By  Frances  Vinton  Ward 


n  the  cream  ■ 


Coffee  and  tea  have  no  nutritive  value  a^side  from 
and  sugar  that  may  he  served  in  them  as  beverages.  Cocoa 
and  chocolate  contain  starch  and  fat  and  conseciuently  am  real 
foods;  moreover,  they  are  generally  made  with  milk,  which 
gives  them  added  nutritive  value. 

COFFEE 

The  standard  kinds  of  coffee  hiclude  Mocha,  Java,  Mara- 
caibo,  Santos,  Rio,  and  Bogota. 

Adulteration. 

Adulterants  are  seldom  found  in  coffee  that  is  unbound,  or  in 
the  whole  berry.  Ground  coffee  is  soraetimes  athdtcrated  with 
cereal  or  chicory  root.  A  mild  coffee  is  improved  by  the  addi- 
tion of  tlric^l  chicory  root,  roaisted.  Unadulterated  ground 
coffee  should  be  free  from  dust  and  chaff.  When  a  teaspoon 
of  ground  coffee  is  stirred  into  a  half  glass  of  cold  water,  there 
should  be  little  discoloration  of  the  water  and  few  grains  should 
sink  to  the  bottom. 

Care, 

Coffee  gives  best  results  when  bought  in  the  whole  grain  and 
ground  just  before  using.  If  bought  ground,  it  must  be  kept 
in  an  air-tight  container  which  is  never  leFt  with  the  cover  off. 
To  freshen  a  stale  or  weak  coffee,  the  grounds  shouki  he  stirred 
in  a  hot  frying  pan  until  they  are  well  dried  but  not  scorched. 

Compo»ition. 

The  substances  found  in  coffee  include:  caffein,  a  mild  stimu- 
lant; volatile  oils,  which  give  flavor  and  odor;  coloring  matter, 

465 


I 


466 


.4  MANUAL  OF  HOaME-MAKING 


developed  in  roasting;  and  tannin,  present  only  in  very  small 
quantities,  except  in  the  chaff. 

I}evehpfn4*Tii  of  Jhwors. 

Bitif^rnesH  is  brought  out  by  boilinp:.  It  is  also  dependent  on 
the  prop4jrtion  of  cofftt*  uhccI.  The  roast  eel  flavor  is  brought 
out  iiy  frash  roajstiiiR  aiui  quick  making.  The  an>ina  from  the 
volatile  oils  is  brought  out  by  islow  heating  without  boiling  or 
the  escape  of  steam. 

Directions  for  making. 
Weak,  inpdium,  or  s-^trong  coffee  may  be  made  according  t^ 
the  following  pro{)ortions: 

Weak  ct>fft*e:  1  Ivvv]  tablespoon  of  ground  coffoo  to  1  meMiiring-rup  of 
water  (H  pint). 

Medium  coflfee:  1  rounding  or  2  level  tablespoons  of  grounil  ooHee  to 
1  mcnsuring-cup  of  water, 

Htrong  cofFw:  3  level  tablespoons  of  grounci  coffee  to  1  nie!isuriiig<<u|> 
of  water. 

Some  of  the  more  common  methods  of  making  coffee  are  &s 

follows: 

1.  Oild-water  process.  Use  coffee  ground  medium  fine.  Pour  the  cold 
w^attT  over  the  coffee^  oover  it  carefully,  and  pluff  the  spout.  Hent  tW 
coffee  very  slowly  to  the  boiliuR  |Kiiut,  and  Ixnl  it  gently  for  not  more  ihsm 
3  minutes.  Settle  it  by  jiouring  in  a  little  cold  water  slowly.  Si*t  the  p«>t 
In  a  warm  place  for  8  minut-evi  to  allnw  the  gr^Tunds  to  settle  and  the  flavor 
to  ripen.    Serve  the  coffee  without  further  delay. 

2.  Hot- water  process.  Use  coffee  ground  medium  fine.  Pour  boiliiig 
water  over  the  coffee  and  proceed  as  in  the  cfild  water  process. 

3.  Quick  coif  I -water  pnj«*ess.  l^se  eciffee  gjrotmd  medium  fine.  Pour 
about  one-fourth  of  the  cold  water  over  the  cofftH%  heat  it  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point;  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  water  boiling  hot,  set  the  ix>t 
in  a  warm  place  for  the  flavor  Ui  rijien,  and  serve  the  cHjffce  promptly  afteir 
8  minute. 

4.  LariQPK|uaDtity  process*  Tie  t  he  coffee,  ground  fine,  loost^ly  in  a  musUa 
bag,  allowing  space  equal  to  the  bulk  of  the  coffei*  fi>r  swelluig.  Drop  the 
bag  in  the  kettle  of  cold  water,  heat  the  water  to  the  Ixjiling  point,  and 
boil  it  for  not  more  than  3  minutes.  Hemove  the  Img,  allow  the  coffee  to 
stand  for  8  minutes,  and  serve  it  when  neetled.  Be  sure  that  the  coffee 
does  not  boil  while  it  is  being  kept  hot,  and  that  it  is  (*ovcred, 

5.  Percolator  process.    Use  powdered  coffee.    Heat  the  water,  pour  it 


BEVERAGES 


through  th^  lacrounds  in  thi*  pi^rcolaiur,  and  continue  heating  it  for  alxiut 
5  minutes.    8c*rvc  it  at  onco. 

ij,  French  drip  cofTee.  Use  powdered  coffee.  Pour  the  boiling  water 
through  tiie  grounds,  relicat  the  liquid^  and  pour  it  through  a  second  time* 
If  a  very  i^trong  eoffee  is  desired,  thia  process  may  be  repeated. 

7.  Cafd  au  kit  (coffee  with  milk).  Two  methods  are  commonly  used: 
(a)  Vse  coffee  ground  very  fine.  Add  cold  milk  iimtead  of  water.  Heat  it 
filowly  to  a  temperature  just  under  the  boiling  pijmt>  .strain  it,  and  Hrrv<* 
it  at  once.  Another  method  ii4:  (b)  Use  coffee  protHid  medium  fine.  Add 
one-fourth  the  usuid  amount  of  water.  Heat  this  slowly  to  the  Ixtiling 
point,  strain  it,  and  add  hot  milk  to  make  up  the  other  three-fourths  of 
liquid, 

8.  Iced  coffee.  Make  coffee  by  any  of  the  methods  suggested,  piiur  it 
off  the  grouncis  at  onee,  chill  it,  and  serve  it  when  desired.  The  best  results 
will  be  obtahii*d  from  eaf6  uu  lait  poured  over  ehopped  ice. 

Clearing  the  UquifL 

It  is  iicrcssary  to  clear  tfie  liquid  only  when  the  grounds  are 
steeped  in  the  water  loose,  not  inclorfed  in  a  bag.  The  following 
methods  may  be  mmli 

L  Egg-white:  (a)  Add  an  egg-white  to  the  drj"  grounds;  stir  the  mixture 
we!L  Use  the  cold-water  or  the  quick  cold-water  method  of  brewing.  Add 
a  beaten  egg-whit  e  to  a  pound  of  freshly  pp^und  coffee,  mix  it  well,  .spread  it 
out  to  tlry;  then  put  it  in  a  tight  container  till  it  in  u.sed.  This  treatment 
will  also  aid  in  preserving  the  strength  of  the  coffee.  IFse  the  straight  cold- 
water  prt>cess  for  this  €ofTtH\  and  soak  the  gr<ninci.'i  for  a  f<^w  minutijis  ia 
the  water  first  if  possible.  Coffee  ««  prc|)ar«xl  should  never  l>e  put  in  a 
percolator,  since  it  ekigs  the  nieve.  Strength  of  Havor  eannot  be  obtained 
if  the  hot-wat(>r  mettioti  is  used,  (e)  Add  1  raw  eggshill  to  each  pint  of 
water,  and  make  coffin  by  the  cold-water  ]>rueesis. 

2.  *Sifling.  A  cofffK^  which  givea  iniieh  trouble  from  muddinesa  may  be 
fliftcHi  dry  through  a  strainer,  the  eLKirni-'  part  u.sed  for  laoiled  coffee  and 
the  fine  part  for  drip  or  percolator  coffee. 

3.  Olid  water.  Remove  f  he  coffee  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  it  is  cooked; 
pour  slowly  into  it  a  small  quantity  of  cuUl  water,  not  more  tlmn  J^  cup  to 
2  cups  of  the  beverage,  anci  set  it  iLside  to  -*W'ttle, 

4.  Hot  coffee.  Pour  ont  a  httle  of  the  coffee  into  a  cup;  return  the  clear 
part  of  this  to  the  pot  through  the  sfxait.  Keix'at  this  proei?as  two  or 
three  times  till  no  grounds  appear  in  the  cup.  Allow  it  to  stand  for  a  few 
minuti^  to  settle. 

Coffee-poi^  and  their  care. 

Pots  for  hoilpd  roflee  are  best  made  of  agate  or  aluminum. 
Till  pot:5  of  good  quality  give  satLsfactioo  until  the  tin  wears 


I 
1 


I 

I 


468 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


off  on  the  inside.  An  aluminum  pot  is  the  most  durable.  Agate 
pofs  should  be  boiled  in  a  soda  solution  once  a  week  and  tin 
or  aluminum  pot.s  in  mild  soapydds;  any  seamy  or  grooves 
should  bc5  carefully  wiped  afterward^  and  a  rag  string  run  through 
the  spout. 

TEA 

Teas  may  be  claflsified  as  follows:  I.  Black  tea:  tea  that  has 
been  fermented  in  the  proeexs  of  drybig;  it  is  supposed  to  con- 
tain less  active  tannin  than  grwrn  tea.  2.  Oolong:  tea  that 
has  l:>een  partly  fermented  in  drying  and  Is  midway  in  color  and 
quality  iK'tweeo  black  and  green  lea.  3.  Green  tea:  tea  that 
has  been  pramptly  dried  with  caiT  taken  to  preser\'e  the  natural 
green  color.  This  tea  is  supposed  to  contain  more  active  tannin 
than  do  the  other  varieties.  Formerly  it  was  sometimes  colored 
with  cfiptxT. 

The  Ix^t  known  kinds  of  tea  arc  given  in  the  following  classic 
fication : 


I 


Frew*  China 

From  India 

From  Japans 

1.  Green 

L  Black 

Green 

a,  Gunpfiwdcr 

a.  Assam 

a.  Pftn-lirod 

b.  IrniM'rial 

b.  Darjiling 

b.  Baaket-fired 

r.  Younf5  hyson 

2.  Grwn 

d.  Hy»on 

Frorn  Ctnjlon 

Ffwn  Fornwm 

2.  Bbrk 

\,  filaek 

Oolong 

a.  Congou 

2.  GfWQ 

b,  Soiji'hrmg 

c.  Scented 

3.  Oalong 

Grades. 

There  are  six  grades  of  tea,  standardized  as  follows: 

L  Flowery  pekoe:  tip  of  the  stem  and  buds.     This 

seldom  reaches  this  country.    2,  Orange  pekoe:  first  open  leaf. 

3.  Pekoe :  second  leaf .    4,  First  souchong:  third  leaf.    5,  Second 

Souchong:  fourth  leaf.     6.  Congou:  fillh  leaf. 

How  to  judge  tea  lem^s. 

Dry  fresh  tea  leaves  should  be  free  from  dust,  broken  bitSt 


k 


BEVERAGES 


46? 


and  stems.  When  the  leaves  are  steeped,  they  may  be  judged 
by  theii:  size;  the  smaller  leave-s  are  best.  Tea  that  consists  of 
leaver  that  are  very  [injt*h  broken,  or  that  has  many  stems  or 
midribs  in  proportion  to  the  remainder  of  the  leaf,  is  of  low 
grade.  However,  tea  containing  many  midribs  may  be  satis- 
factory and  inexpensive. 

Storage, 

The  container  used  for  tea  should  be  of  metal  or  ghiss,  and 
should  be  air  and  water-tight. 

C&mpomtion. 

Tea  contains:  tannin,  a  bitter  astringent  substance;  aromatic 
oils,  substances  that  furnish  the  spicy  taste  and  odor;  and  thein, 
(caffein),  a  mild  stimulant. 

Direct ioTW  for  brewing. 

The  aims  in  properly  brewing  tea  are:  L  To  extract  the  aro- 
matic oils  but  to  prevent  their  escape  from  the  liquicL  The  Ijcst 
temperature  for  this  result  is  just  under  the  boiling  point;  the 
best  time,  3  minutes.  2.  To  extract  the  thein.  The  best  tem- 
perature is  just  under  the  boiling  point.  3.  To  prevent  the  ex- 
traction of  tannin.  Tannin  is  extracted  by  boiling  or  by  con- 
tinued steeping  (over  3  minutes). 

One  level  teaspoon  of  tea  s!iould  be  used  for  each  cup  of 
water.    Any  of  the  following  methods  may  be  used : 

1.  Heat  the  teafjot,  drop  into  it  the  tea,  and  i>fiur  the  freshly  btiilinK 
water  over  this.  Ste^^p  the  tea  in  a  warm  plaee  for  just  S  miniitt^:  du  not 
allow  it  to  twil.  Pour  the  WvtTago  off  the  ground.^  iiniur^liately,  and  serve 
it  hot.  A  tea-€osy,  or  i|uilted  cover  whieh  fits  the  teapot,  helps  to  keep 
the  tea  hot. 

2.  Place  the  tea  in  a  large  tea-btdl  or  tic  it  in  a  muslin  htig.  Put  this 
in  the  pot,  and  proct»ed  according  to  Method  L  Remove  the  ball  at  the 
end  of  3  minutes, 

3.  Place  ?  2  teaspoon  of  tea  in  a  silver  tea-ball,  previously  heated.  Lay 
this  in  a  serving  cup,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it.  8tecp  it  for  juKt  3 
minutes;  then  remove  the  ball,  Ite]iiaei>  the  leaves  with  fresh  onea  before 
brewing  a  second  cup.  This  method  is  generally  unsatisfactory  from  the 
atandpoint  of  quality. 


470 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


\.  Russian  tea,  for  sonnnp  a  large  quantity.  Measure  out  the  tea  m 
the  y>n)p<>rti«3n  of  1  cup  to  sixty  wervinjp?.  Pour  over  this  in  a  hot  covered 
kettle  3  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  steep  the  tea  for  3  rninyte«.  Four  the 
liquid  oft  the  leaves,  net  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  diluJe  it  as  needed,  using 
one  part  of  tea  to  three  parts  of  hot  water. 

5.  Iced  tea.  Any  of  the  following  methods  may  be  ufi/ed:  (a)  Brew  freflli 
tea  using  more  tea  in  profjortion  to  water  than  for  hot  tea.  Fill  t\imhlcf« 
half  fuH  of  cracked  ico,  place  a  slice  of  letnon  and  2  teaspoons  of  sugar  on 
top,  and  pour  the  hot  tea  over  thb^.  Serve  the  tea  as  soon  as  it  is  chiUed. 
(h)  <  %M>1  tea,  and  chill  it  eitluT  liy  the  addition  of  cracked  ice  or  by  placing 
it  whiTe  it  will  bc^  eoliL  Dissolve  the  sttgar  in  the  tea  before  cooUng  it, 
or  add  a  sirup,  tc}  Four  cold  water  over  the  tea  leaves,  and  let  tbcm  acMik 
for  several  hours. 

(I  IVa  fiunch.  Tea  that  is  to  be  used  as  a  foundation  for  fnu>.  punch 
should  be  made  in  the  proportion  of  1 1^  teiiHjxjons  of  tea  to  1  cup  of  wat^r. 
To  make  the  punch,  use  cold  tea  in  place  of  onofourth  to  one-half  of  th<» 
water,  according  to  thr*  fl:iv*ir  di^ired.  The  ust^  of  tea  of  appruxirnately 
the  ft[ime  color  as  the  fruit  juice  is  Ix-st;  a  dark  tea  may  be  used  to  color 
the  liquid.    Test  the  tea  for  cloudicig  before  using  it. 

Clouding, 

Some  teas,  expecially  some  black  kind.'^,  cloud  on  cooling 
and  standing*  Re-heating  will  clear  them  tem|x>rarily,  but  these 
teas  are  not  suited  for  serving  as  iced  teas  or  in  punches.  To 
test  a  tea  for  clouding,  it  should  Ix?  brewed  and  the  liquid  allowed 
to  stanfl  overnight  at  room  temperature.  Clouding  is  not  au 
indication  of  inferior  quality. 

Points  in  judging  the  beverage. 
In  judging  tea,  the  color,  the  taste,  the  flavor,  the  pungen^T 
and  the  l>ody  must  be  consideretl, 

Sennng. 

Black  tea  is  generally  i>est  suited  for  serving  with  cream  and 
sugar  iK^cause  of  its  color  and  flavor.    Green  teas  are  generally 

served  plain  or  with  lemon  and  sugar. 

COCOA 

Cocoa  is  found  on  the  market  in  the  following  forms:  1.  Cocoa 
nibe:  chocolate  beans,  cracked.    2.  Chocolate  cake:  chocolate 


I 


1 


d 


E 


BEVERAGES 


471 


beans  groiind  fine  and  pressed.  3.  Cocoa-shellw:  the  tJiin 
inner  shells  of  the  coeoa  bean,  cracked  off.  Ver>^  httle  outri- 
iiiprit  is  eonlained  in  them.  4.  Cocoa:  ehor^ohite  from  wliich 
some  of  the  fat  {cocoa  butter)  has  been  removctJ. 

Cffmpomiian. 

Chocolate  and  cocoa  ocmtaiii  fat,  starch,  tannin  and  theo-" 
bromine,  which  is  similar  to  caffein  but  much  milder  in  its  effects. 
The  fat-content  uf  chocolate  is  much   liigher  than   that  of 
cocoa. 

r>irfCtion.'i  for  making, 

L  Cliocolutc  nih.H:  I' so  ^%  cup  of  nibs  to  3  ctipa  of  water.  Pour  the 
Ijoilinic  water  over  the  nibs,  stet*p  therii  (it'otly,  without  boiling,  for  2  hours. 
Strain  the  bcvemge,  and  stTVe  it  with  iTesim  and  sugar. 

2,  Cocoa-Hh<"lls:  l^se  from  H  to  I  cup  of  shells  to  4  cupn  of  wat<^r.  Sim- 
mer the  mixture  for  2  hours,  stmia  it,  and  serve  it  with  erearn  and  Bugar. 

3,  Chocolate*:  U^e  H  ounce  of  chocolate,  h^  cup  of  water,  H  fup  of  rnilk, 
2  teaspoons  of  sugar,  and  salt.  Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  add 
the  sugar,  the  salt  and  the  water.  Heat  the  mixture  to  the  boiling  point, 
letting  it  bubble  well.  Add  the  milk*  and  set  it  in  the  double  Ixiiler  to 
heat.  When  it  is  hot,  V>eat  it  with  an  egg-tjeater  till  the  top  ia  eovered  with 
a  fine  froth.  This  will  prevent  the  formation  of  a  film.  To  make  a  some- 
what heavier  beverag(%  add  from  H  to  1  te^aspoon  of  rornstarch  mixed 
with  the  sugar. 

4,  Cocoa,  (a)  Thin  cocoa.  Mix  2  teaspoons  of  cocoa.  2  teaspoons  of 
sugar,  salt,  auil  adtl  '  ^  cup  of  hot  water,  stirring  the  mixture  to  a  smooth 
t)aste.  Boil  the  mixture  at  leiist  two  minutes.  Add  }<i  cup  of  mitk,  and 
heat  the  mixture  in  a  doul>le  boiler.  Beat  it  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  tiE 
the  top  is  covertxl  with  tine  bubbles^  to  prevent  the  formation  of  a  film. 
(i>)  Thickened  cocoa.  Mix  2  teaspoons  of  cocoa,  2  teasjxwns  of  sugar, 
salt,  li  tcaspo<3n  of  cornstarch,  a  little  cinnamon,  and  !'^i  cup  of  water, 
wtirring  the  mixture  to  a  «mooth  pa^ste.  Boil  it  till  it  thjekenn.  add  J^cup 
milk,  and  place  the  mixture  in  a  double  Ixuler  to  heat.  Beat  it  with  an 
egg-beater  to  prevent  the  formation  of  a  tihiL  (c)  Co«ia  paste  {prepared 
cocoa.)  Mix  2  cups  of  cocoa,  3  eufMS  of  sugar,  and  3  cupe  of  hot  water, 
and  .**tir  this  to  a  smooth  paste.  Place  the  mixture  in  a  double  Iwiler,  and 
simmer  it  for  2  hours.  Keep  the  paste  in  a  cool  place  and  use  it  as  needed. 
To  use  the  pa«tc,  heat  1  cup  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  stir  into  it  1 
tablespoon  of  the  paste,  (d)  Iced  chocolate  and  cocoa.  Chill  cocoa,  and 
pour  it  over  cracked  ice  in  tumblers.  Serve  it  wtth  whipped  cream  on 
top. 


I 


I 


472 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


fruit  juices 
By  Miriam  Birdskye 

The  principal  charm  of  a  fruit  drink  lies  in  the  smooth  blend 

ing  of  the  various  fluvors.  Unless  the  fruit  jujee^s  have  Ikn 
well  sweeleoed  liefure  botdiii^  ([lu^e  (ill)),  llie  ueedixl  fitigai 
should  be  supplied  in  the  fnnn  of  a  sugar  sirup;  otheiwse  the 
juices  and  tlie  sugar  must  l>e  niLxed  and  allowinl  to  stand  to- 
gether for  several  lioui^  before  being  served.  For  the  sirup, 
1  cufiful  of  sugar  should  lie  allowed  for  each  cupful  of  water, 
and  the  mixture  boiled  for  al>out  10  minutes.  It  saves  time  luid 
fuel  to  make  a  cpiart  or  so  of  tills  sirup  at  a  time  and  bottle  it 
b<jiling  hot  in  sterilized  pint  jai^s  for  sul>s(Hiuent  use. 

A  small  amount  of  some  strongly  acid  juice  should  always  li 
added  to  the  fruit  drink  to  give  it  the  proper  degree  of  acidity 
The  juice  of  rhubarli  or  l)arlierries  is  suflficiently  sour  to  ink 
the  place  of  lemon  juice  for  this  purpose.  Orange  juiee  may 
8ubstitutt*d  for  lemon  juice  l)y  adding  to  it  a  small  quantit 
of  cider  vinegar. 

Enough  of  the  sugar  sirup  should  Ix^  added  to  the  fruit  juier 
to  sweeten  them,  enough  acid  juice  to  contribute  the  de*sire 
»est,  and  the  whole  diluted  to  taste  w^th  shaved  ice  or  with  i 
water* 

Green  te^  makes  a  good  foundation  for  a  fruit  punch, 

Well-scrubbe<l  skins  of  pineapples,  oranges*  and  lemons  may 
be  covered  with  water»  a  little  sugar  added,  antl  the  mixtun 
allowed  to  stand  for  several  hours  to  draw  out  the  flavoring, 
matter.    This  thin  juice  may  \ye  used  immediately  to  mafc 
fruit  drinks. 


I 


CHAPTER  XXI 
BATTERS  ANB  DOUGHS 

By  Mary  F.  Henhy 


When  flour  and  liquid  are  mixed  in  such  proportions  that  the 
resiihinjii:  mixture  van  hv  lieatcn,  it  is  calleti  a  batter.  When  the 
mixture  is  so  thick  that  it  cannot  be  beaten,  but  must  be  made 
smooth  liy  kneading,  it  is  called  a  dough.  The  essential  in- 
gredients of  Imtters  and  doughs  are  flour,  liquid,  and  leavening. 
Shortening^  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt  are  not  essential  hut  they  eon- 
tribute  to  flavor  and  texture.  "Light  breads"  can  be  made 
from  wheat  flour  because  it  contains  certain  materials  whieh 
when  moistened  fonn  a  sticky  elastic  substance  called  gluten. 
When  a  mixture  containing  gluten  is  heated,  the  moisture  and 
the  air  which  may  lie  incorpoialedt  expand  and  stretch  the 
gluten.  If  the  terai>erature  is  sufheiently  high,  the  gluten 
hardens  and  forms  a  framework  surrounding  whatever  other 
ingredients  are  contained  in  the  loaf.  However,  it  is  not  safe 
to  rely  solely  on  the  expansion  of  the  moisture  or  whatever  air 
happens  to  be  present  in  the  mixture,  either  as  the  result  of 
beating  a  plain  batter  or  of  adding  wefl-beaten  eggs.  In  most 
batters  and  doughs  a  gas  wdiieh  expands  on  heating  is  intro- 
duced by  means  of  the  growth  of  yeasts  or  !iy  chemical  leaven- 
ing agents.  This  gas  acts  more  powerfully  than  does  air  or 
steam  because  it  is  more  abmidant.  Yeast  doughs  are  discussed 
in  Chapter  XXIV, 

CLASSIFICATION 

Pour  6aifer«.— Mixtures  of  about  equal  parts  of  flour  and 
Hquid,  such  as  those  used  in  making  popovers  and  pancakes^ 
are  called  pour  batters  because  they  can  be  poured. 

Drop  baUers. — ^Mixtures  of  about  two  parts  of  flour  to  one 

473 


I 
I 

I 
I 
I 


474 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


part  of  liquid,  sucli  its  those  usihI  for  nuitiin«  and  cakes, 
callefl  drop  battern,  because  they  drop  from  a  spoou, 

Soft  fhughs. — Mixtures  of  about  three  parts  of  Hour  to  oni 
part  of  liquid,  such  as  Inscuits,  are  called  soft  doughs. 

Stiff  doughs, — Mixtures  of  about  four  parts  of  flour  to  one* 
part  of  Uc|uifi,  such  as  yeast  bread,  are  called  stiff  doughs.    (Seo-i 
C;iiapter  XXIV.) 


INGREDIENTS 


Flmir, 


A  good  grade  of  flour  should  be  used  for  all  douRhs  and  batt 
(p.  495).     Pastry  flour  is  better  than  bread  flour  for  quirks 
bread  mixtiires  and  cake,  since  it  p:ives  a  more  tender  prcKluei| 
than  does  bread  flour.    Pastry  flour  may  bo  nia<le  at  hfitiie  aiN 
coriliu^  to  the  supp:estions  on  pa^e  41R).     When  other  flours  aro| 
substituted   for  wlieat  flour  in  a  recipe,  it  should  Ik?  on  the 
baais  of  weight,  since  there  is  much  variation  in  measure. 

Liquid. 

Sweet  or  sour  milk,  sweet  or  sour  buttermilk,  sweet  or  sour^ 
cream,  whey,  molasses,  water,  potato  water,  rice  water,  and 
various  other  liriuids  may  be  used  in  doughs  and  batters.    Sour 
milk,  sour  cream,  sour  buttermilk,  whey;  and  molasses  rf*quino  i 
iibda  to  neut ralize  tlieir  aciii  (p!  475).    8our  milk  gives  a  texture  1 
that  is  slightly  more  tender  than  that  produced  with  sweet 
milk.    Both  eggs  and  fat  serve  as  par!  of  the  Ucjuid*    An  average-  ] 
gized  e^  may  he  reganied  as  supplying  two  tablespoons  of 
liquid;  fat  may  be  regarded  as  entirely  liquid.    This  fact  must  { 
be  taken  into  consideration  if  changes  are  made  in  a  standard 
recipe.    If  cream  k  used,  its  fat-content  must  be  considered 
(P*  477). 

Soda, 

When  baking  soda  comes  in  contact  with  an  acid  in  the  prcs^-l 
ence  of  moisture,  it  lil>erLitcs  a  gas  called  carbon  dioxide.     The  ' 
acid  may  Ix*  cream  of  tartar,  or  such  acids  as  are  containiHJ  in 
sour  milk  or  molasses.    The  amount  of  soda  to  lie  used  is  ile* 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


termlned  by  the  amount  of  sour  milk  Ufsed  and  its  degree  of 
acidity,  and  nni  by  the  nniooiit  of  Hour  its  is  the  case  when 
baking  powder  is  used.  SocIm  luny  be  added  in  two  ways:  (1) 
It  rna}^  be  stirred  into  the  mitk,  in  which  case  it  does  not  act  so 
decidedly  as  a  leaveniujE:  ap;cnt,  l>ut  serves  to  sweeten  the  milk. 
In  the  process  some  of  tfie  gas  is  lil>era1ed  and  the  leavening 
powder  is  lost  to  such  an  extent  that  it  generally  l>eeomes  neees- 
eary  to  use  baking  powder  as  aciditional  leavening  agent, 
(2)  The  soda  may  be  sifted  with  the  flour^  in  w^hich  ciise  the 
gas  is  lil aerated  ehieHy  during  the  baking  process.  When  it  is 
addetl  in  Uuj?  way,  no  additional  baking  powder  is  useii  if  the 
milk  is  sufficiently  sour  to  rec|uire  soda  in  »uch  aniotmt  as  to 
give  a  proportion  of  li  teaspoon  of  soda  to  1  eup  of  Hour, 

No  absolute  statement  can  l>e  mjide,  however,  as  to  the  cor- 
rect amounts  of  soda  to  use,  since  sour  milk  and  molasses  differ 
greatly  in  their  degree  of  acidity.  In  general  it  may  be  said  that 
from  I'i  to  }4  teaspoon  of  soda  should  be  used  for  eaeh  cup  of 
sour  milk,  and  more  nearly  3^  teaspoon  should  be  used  for  each 
cup  of  molasses.  Experience  in  cooking  with  sour  miJk  and  soda 
W'ill  Ijcst  teach  correct  amounts  to  use.  If  soda  is  added  to  the 
milk^  the  taste  may  serve  as  a  guide  for  determining  eorrect 
amounts,  a  brackish  taste  indicating  that  too  much  soda  has 
been  iLsed,  a  sour  taste  indicating  that  too  little  has  been  used. 
Tests  may  be  made  with  red  and  blue  litmus  paper:  if,  after 
the  soda  has  Ijeen  added,  blue  litmus  paptT  tmns  re<l,  the 
amount  of  soda  has  been  insufficient  to  neutraUze  the  add ;  if 
red  litmus  paper  turns  blue,  too  much  has  been  abided.  If 
neither  red  nor  l>lue  litmus  paper  changes  color,  the  ac^id  of  the 
milk  has  been  just  neutralized. 

Instead  of  using  soda  alone  as  a  leavening  agent  when  sour 
milk  or  molasses  is  used  as  the  hciuid,  some  persons  choose  to 
use  baking  powder  also  in  the  proportion  of  1  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing powder  to  1  cup  of  flour.  This  is  advisable  i^specially  if  the 
milk  is  only  slightly  sour,  and  the  amount  of  soda  requii-ed  to 
neutralize  the  acid  is  not  sufficient  to  furnish  enough  gas  to 
make  the  mixture  light*  If  eggs  are  used  in  the  mixture,  baking 
powder  is  not  so  necessary. 


476  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

Baking  pmvder. 

Bakinjx  |xiwder  in  a  mixture  of  soda  and  an  acid  which  wi 

yield  u  gas  when  fiqiiid  is  added.  The  acid  constituent  varies 
with  the  type  of  the  baking  jrowder.  It  may  be  an  acid  tar- 
trate, a  phospliale,  or  an  almnrniim  salt.  Most  commercial 
baking  powders  contain  a  third  ingredient,  starch,  wliieh  ab- 
sorbs moisture  and  so  prevents  any  premature  reaction  between 
tlie  soda  and  the  acicL  All  fjaking  powders,  whether  home- 
made or  commercial,  Mhonld  iie  kept  in  a  closely  covered 
jar. 

Baking  powder  is  generally  used  in  a  mixture  in  which  siweet 
milk  is  used  a8  the  liquid.  Tv  a  tea«^|x>onH  of  baking  fjowdef 
mil  leaven  one  cup  of  flotir  if  no  eggs  are  used.  If  «*ggs  are  us€?d| 
the  total  amount  of  ilie  baking  powder  may  be  tiecreased  34 
teaspoon  for  each  rgg  used. 

It  is  possible  to  make  baking  powder  at  home  by  combining 
cream  of  tartar  and  .soda  in  the  correct  proportions.  It  is  not, 
however*  entirely  practicalile.  because  of  the  difficulty  in  lieing 
accurate  in  measuring  and  tliorough  in  mixing.  The  correct 
proportion,  by  mc^asure,  to  combine  is  2}  2  parts  of  cream 
tartar  to  1  part  of  baking  soda  anti  }i  part  of  cornstarch; 
by  weight,  2^/io  parts  of  cream  of  tartar,  lo  1  part  of  soda  and 
J^2  P^i**  f^f  cornstarch.  The  ingredients  should  be  very  care* 
fully  measured  and  thoroughly  mixed  by  sifting. 


YemL 

Yeast  is  discussed  under  yeast  breads,  page  497. 


i 


Eggs. 

Eggs  give  firmness  of  texture,  lightness,  and  richness  to  bat- 
ters and  doughs.  Also  they  act  as  a  leavening  agent  by  entrap* 
ping  air  as  they  are  beaten.  When  heated,  the  albumen,  hke  the 
gluten  of  wlieat  Hour,  liardefis  and  helps  to  form  a  framew*ork 
to  hold  up  the  other  ingredients.  The  tendency  is  opposite 
to  that  of  fat»  since  eggs  tend  to  bind  together  the  ingrediexits, 
and  fat  tends  to  separate  them.  Preserved  eggs  that  have  a 
good  flavor  and  odor  may  be  used.    One  egg  may  be  consideredi 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


All 


the  equivalent  of  J-^  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in  leavening 
power. 

Shoriemng. 

Fats,  such  as  butter,  butter  8ubBtitutes>  knl,  lard  mibstitutes, 
tried-out  meat  fats,  f*hickerj  fjit,  aud  olive  und  cut  torij^eed  oils, 
are  used  for  shurteniniij.  YvlI  iuakp8  the  texture  of  battel's  and 
doughs  tnore  .eiose-grained  and  more  tender  than  they  would 
otherwise  iie.  It  also  improves  the  flavor  in  mo8t  cases.  Mut- 
ton fat  may  l>e  used  satisfactorily  under  certain  conditions 
(page  521).  Fat  necessitates  the  use  of  more  leavening,  since 
it  oils  the  particles  of  flour  anrl  makes  it  easy  for  the  gas  to 
escape.  A  cake  rnatle  with  a  small  amount  of  fat  will  l>e  porous 
and  will  dry  out  quickly.  Too  much  fat  will  make  the  cak©J 
heavy  and  cause  it  to  crund>le*  If  nielttnl  fat  is  added  to  a  cak€ 
batter,  it  should  not  be  hot,  since  hot  fat  is  likely  to  make  a  cake 
tough,  coarse-grained,  and  heavy. 

Since  fats  vaiy  in  their  water-content,  proper  substitution 
cannot  be  made  by  using  ef|ui\'alent  amounts. 

One  cup  of  butter  is  equivalent  to:  1  cup  of  lard  or  lard  sulw 
stitute  miims  2  tablespoons;  1  cup  of  chicken  fat;  1  cup  of 
cottonseed  or  olive  oil  minus  2  tablesptmns. 

If  cream  is  usefl  in  place  of  milk,  the  fat-content  must  be 
allowetl  for  in  metLsuring  the  shfirtenitig.  One  cup  of  18  per  cent 
cream  is  equivalent  to  %  euf>  t)f  milk  plus  3I2  tablespoons  of 
fat.  One  cup  of  40  per  cent  cream  is  equivalent  to  ^2  ^^P  o^ 
milk  plus  7H  tablespoons  of  fat. 

Sugar, 

Sugar  giv(^s  flavor  to  a  mixture.  It  also  acts  as  a  liquid.  A 
fine  granulated  sugar  gives  a  l>etter  texture  than  does  a  coarse 
sugai'.  Powdered  sugar  is  sometimes  useil  for  a  very  close- 
grained  cake.  If  either  powdered  or  brown  sugar  is  used  in 
place  of  granulated,  the  substitut  ion  should  l>e  made  by  weight, 
not  measure.  Molasses  is  used  in  some  recipes  for  part  of  the 
sugar  as  well  as  part  of  the  liquid.  Corn  sirup  may  be  used  in 
the  same  way;  however,  to  give  sufficient  sweetness  it  should 


478  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

generally  be  combined  with  some  sugar  or  molasses.  Too 
much  su^ar  results  in  a  heavy,  coarse-f^Ded  texture,  or  a 
gun:imy  product. 

METHODS   OF  MfXINO 

The  jiiethod  of  eonilnniiiK  the  ingredients  in  flour  mixtures  ml 
determined  8f>niewh:it  l>y  the  ingredient8|  and  there  is  no  hard 
and  fast  rule  to  be  (o11ow(k1.     However,  experience  lias  shown  I 
that  tlu*  following  methods  give  good  r(*8ults: 

Method  Iff  mixing  butlers. 

The  following  method  may  he  used  in  making  griddle  eakesJ 
popovers,  and  muffins.    Even  eake  may  he  mixed  \n  this  way 
with  excellent  results.      1.  Mix  and  sift   the  dry  ingredients, 
2,  Add  the  milk  to  the  beaten  egg,  and  stir  this  mixture  iuta  j 
the  dry  ingredients.    3.  Add  the  melted  butter  and  beat  the 
mixture  welh 

Method  of  mixing  doughs, 

Bisetiits  and  pie  eruat  are  best  made  by  the  following  methotl : 

1.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.    2.  Cut  the  shortening 

into  the  dry  materials  with  two  knives,  or  mix  it  lightly  with 

the  finger  tips,    3.  Add  the  liquid,  mbdiig  it  in  witli  the  knives 

and  Btirring  the  mixture  as  little  as  possible. 

Method  of  mixing  mkes. 

Cake  is  generally  mLxed  by  the  following  metho<^l»  if  a 
mixer  is  not  used. 

1,  Sift  togt*lhcr  the  flour,  the  baking  powiler,  and  the  salt. 
2.  Work  the  Ijutter  with  a  spoon  until  it  IxK'omejs  soft  and 
creamy.  3.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  creaming  it  with  the 
butter.  4.  Arid  the  welMwaten  egg-yolks.  5.  Add  the  milk 
and  the  flour  in  thirds  or  fourths,  alternately.  »>.  Fold  in  the 
well-beaten  egg-whites. 


UTENSILS   FOE  BAKINO 

Kinds. 

Popovers  are  best  if  baked  in  iron  or  pottery.  Tin  may  be 
used,  but  it  is  not  so  satisfactory.  Iron  baking  pans  should  !>© 
heated  before  the  batter  is  poured  into  them. 


4 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Muffins  may  be  baked  in  either  iron  or  tin  baking  pans. 

Cake  is  best  l>aketl  in  tins.  The  tube  pan  allows  a  current 
of  hot  air  to  rise  through  the  center  of  the  cake,  and  hence  pro- 
mott^  even  baking.  A  broad,  shallow  pan  generally  gives  a 
lighter,  drier  cake  than  does  a  deep  narrow  pan. 

Biscuits  may  be  baked  on  tin  or  on  llussia  iron  sheets. 

Preparation* 

The  l^akinjc  pans  should  be  grcfu*^efl  before  the  ingreciicnts  are 
combined.  The  fat  should  be  melted,  and  applied  to  the  pans 
with  a  soft  piece  of  paper,  a  swab,  or  a  brush  kept  for  the  pur- 
pose. The  product  may  often  l)e  prevented  from  sticking  by 
hgiitly  sprinkling  the  greased  pan  with  flour,  inverting  it,  and 
tapping  it  to  remove  any  excess. 

FILLING    THE    PANS 

A  pan  should  never  he  filknl  more  than  two-thirds  full  of 
batter.  When  a  cake  1  fitter  is  put  into  the  pan,  it  should  be 
brought  up  against  the  ^idcs  1  >y  using  a  spoon  or  spatola,  so  that 
before  baking  the  center  of  the  cake  may  be  lower  than  the 
sides. 

BAKING 

The  pan  should  be  placed  on  the  lower  grate  of  the  gas-oven 
and  on  the  floor  of  the  oven  of  a  coal  range  so  that  the  greatest 
amoimt  of  heat  will  reacli  it  from  unflerneath  and  force  it  to 
rise  to  its  fullest  capacity  before  the  crust  is  formed  on  top. 

The  oven  door  should  not  be  opened  during  the  first  ten 
minutes  of  the  baking  process.  When  it  is  opened,  it  should  be 
closed  gently,  since  a  sufklen  jar  or  draft  may  cait^e  the  mixture, 
to  fall.  If  a  mixture  is  baking  unevenly,  it  may  be  turnwl  in 
the  oven  before  the  top  crust  bt*gins  to  harden;  if  it  is  turned 
after  the  crust  is  formed,  the  cake  may  fall  and  will  not  rise 
again. 

The  stages  in  baking  arc  as  follows:  The  mixture  begins  to 
rise;  it  continues  to  rise  and  begins  to  brown  in  spots;  it  rises 
in  the  center  and  Ijrowns  over  the  top;  it  settles  to  a  level  and 
shrinks  from  the  sides  of  the  pan. 


I 


480 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOMEMAKING 


oikn 


(ken  temperalure^. 

A  correct  oven  tempcratarp  fa  very  iraportant  in  haldng*  The 
correct  temperature  depencb  on  the  size  of  the  loaf  and  tJie  OOQ- 
stituente  used  in  the  mixture. 

The  foUowing  classification  of  temperatures  for  baking 
ous  mi3cture6  is  suggested:  * 

1.  Slow  oven  i2Sff  to  350°  F.\  for  custards  and  metiofiKa. 

a.  Modmte  oycr  (Wi""  to  400^  F),  for  bread,  ^nweibtmd, 
awfciesy  bQ  tnobses  mixiurEs. 

3.  Hot  oven  (40(f  to  450^  FJ,  for  FaHccrfwuse  roll^  and  popovet&.  In 
baking  popoven,  tbe  oven  should  be  cooled  to  nxKlerate  beat  after  Ibe  int 
td)  niinittes. 

4    Very  hot  oven  (450°  to  550^  R),  for  pasUy.    After  the  first  six 
utes  tbc  tevuperature  should  be  lowered  to  '*hot." 

Sponge  cake  should  be  baked  in  an  oven  with  a  temperatnre 
between  ''slow*'  and  ** moderate/* 

Baking  powder  biscuits  should  be  baked  in  an  oven  with  a 
(empeniture  between  "hot"  and  "very  hot" 

The  following  tests  for  oven  temperatures  may  be  used: 
1.  When   glazed   white   paper  placed   in  an   oven    beoomoi 


TABLE  XXVIIl  -Ti 

MB-TABLE 

FOR  Barino  Batters  axd  Doughs 

MijUure 

Time  rtqvir^ 

{minute*) 

BmcalU^t  bakiniE  powcicr  or  stKia 

10  to  15 

liolln,  nuMsd... 

I0lo20 

BiTsid.  ywwrt,- 

45  to  60 

Cake^  layer 

15  to  30 

Cake,  loaf 

35to60 

Cookiw 

5  to  10 

Com  i3ake,  Ihiek 

30  to  40 

Muf&tui,  tiakiiiK  pirndf  r 

20  to  25 

40  to  50 

TtaU 

10  to  12 

Pir* 

30  to  60 

•  May  B.  Van  ArBdalc^.  Some  At  tempt*  to  Standardise  Oven  Tempera- 
fttureri  for  Cookery  Pn»c*«M«,  Tech.  Education  Bull*  22,  pubtiBhcd  by 
Tmeheni  College,  c3olumbia  Univ, 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS  481 

brown  in  five  minutes,  the  oven  is  moderate  (350°  to  400°  F.) ; 
2.  when  glazed  white  paper  placed  in  an  oven  becomes  dark 
brown  in  five  minutes,  the  oven  is  hot;  3.  experience  will  make 
the  hand  a  fairly  reliable  tester  for  oven  temperatures;  4.  an 
oven  thermometer  is  essential  in  learning  to  bake  with  the  mini- 
mum  of  failures. 

Tests  for  determining  when  breads  and  cakes  are  done. 

Any  of  the  following  tests  may  be  used  to  determine  when  a 
mixture  is  done:  1.  When  the  color  is  a  rich  golden  brown;  2. 
when  the  mixture  shrinks  away  from  the  sides  of  the  pan;  3. 
when  the  sides  of  the  pan  sizzle  when  touched  with  a  damp 
finger;  4.  when  a  clean  toothpick  inserted  comes  out  free  from 
any  particles  of  the  mixture;  5.  when  a  cake  springs  back  if 
pressed  gently  on  top. 


482 


A  MANUAL  OP  HOME-MAKtSG 


E 

1 


III 


a  a;  «  * 

»  »  ar  »  ^  ■£ 


i 

J4r 

1 

St                  M 

S    -    2 

^    S     B 

"*    ^    -*■ 

II 


B 

^ 


**    2    «    t*    «_« 


s  2  5   e  ar  £-  -1.1 

«3?       ^       «Q         P4 


5  k 


1 

g  1 1 1 1 

&    O    m    m    ^    1^    ^ 


11 
II 

i! 


3^ 


CHAPTER  XXII 


CAKES 

Cakes  maybe  divided  into  tlirne  classes:  cakes  made  wil 
yeast,  sponge  eakes^  and  butter  cakesj  or  eakcs  made  with 
shortening. 

CAKES   RLIDE    WITH   VEAST 

The  points  wliich  are  essential  for  success  in  bread -making 
(page  405)  should  he  observed  in  mixing  cakes  hgh tenec I  with 
yea«t«  Since  sugar^  butter,  and  eggs  hav<'  a  tendency  to  retard 
fermentation,  they  shoukl  tie  added  either  to  the  light  8j>onge 
or  to  the  Hght  dough.  Brioche  and  raiscil  doughnuts  arc  ex- 
amples of  cakes  made  with  yeast* 

SPONGE    CAKES 

Sponge  cakes  are  reall}^  a  variation  of  a  soufH(?  or  puffy  ome- 
let. They  are  made  without  fat.  They  may  he  leavened  with 
eggs  alone,  or  with  baking  powder  and  eggs.  Plain  sponge 
cakes,  choux  paste,  lady-fingers,  macaroons  and  meringues  are 
examples  of  this  type  of  cake.  Sponge  cakes  shouki  never  be 
cut  with  a  knife.  They  should  be  broken  or  separated  with 
two  forks  by  placing  the  backs  of  the  tines  together  and  gently 
pulling  the  cake  apart. 

Method  of  fnixing. 

(1)  Separate  ilio  whites  of  the  ^^g»  from  the  yolks;  (2)  beat  the  yolks 
until  they  iirv  thick  antl  It^mon-f'olored,  j^iTapirig  {hvni  flown  from  the  sides 
with  a  ^JifiiiUila  to  prcvi^Bt  thfir  drj'ing  on  the  bowl;  {'A)  add  the;  sifted  sugar 
gradyally,  boating  tho  mixture*  constantly;  (4)  ad(J  the  Havciring,  if  it  ii*  to 
he  used:  (5)  lieat  the  whites  until  they  will  ntay  in  the  Ixiwl  when  it  is 
iDVertetl,  that  is,  until  ttiey  ar*^  stiff  but  not  dry;  (0)  fold  the  whit^^a  quickly 
into  the  firstt  mixture,  urilil  they  arc  «ot  viHtblo  in  Uvrgt*  amounts;  (7)  aift 
the  sak  and  the  Hour  several  times.  If  baking  powder  is  used,  sift  it  with 
the  flour  aud  the  salt;  (8)  fold  the  dr>'  ingredients  uart^fuUy  into  the  mix- 


1 


I 


I 


48a 


A 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

ture.    It  should  not  be  l3ealen,  becatiBe  the  tiir  bubbles  that  make  the  < 
light  may  thiia  be  broken,  but  it  shaiild  fw  «^ut  and  folded  until  no  dry 
flour  ia  visible. 

Method  of  baking.  ^1 

The  pans  for  sponge  piikc  should  lie  perfectly  clerui.  They 
should  not  be  greaswl.  The  pans  shoultl  hv  filled  aecordinR  to 
the  directions  on  page  479,  8pon|ti;e  rakes  ,shon!d  l:»e  fvnketl  in  a 
slow  oven  from  1  to  Ijy^  hours.  When  the  cake  is  done  it  will 
begin  to  shrink  from  the  sides  of  the  pan,  and  it  will  rel>outul  ^ 
wlien  presswl  lightly  on  top  with  the  finger.  Sponge  cukea  H 
should  not  l.)C  renioveil  from  the  pan  until  cold.  The  pan  should 
he  inverttHl  on  a  cake-rack  and  ihe  cake  should  be  allowtnl  to 
cool  gradually  in  a  place  that  m  free  from  a  draft. 


d 


I 


BUTTER  CAKES 

Recipes  for  butter  cakes  call  for  various  proportions  of  ma* 
terials.  Results  produced  by  such  variations  are  discussed 
l>rieHy  on  pages  474  to  477.  With  a  fair  understanding  of  the 
fMissiliilities  of  substituting  one  material  for  another,  cake  re- 
cipvs  may  be  varied  to  make  the  best  use  of  the  materials  on 
liand  or  to  proihice  the  desired  result  in  lightness  or  richness. 
Formulas  that  are  good  to  usci  as  a  basis  for  substitution  ajTe  — 
given  on  page  482.  Because  of  the  difference  in  grades  of  flour,  H 
it  is  difficult  to  give  the  exact  amount  of  flour  required  to  pro- 
duce the  best  rc^sylt.  Butter  cakes  include  cup  cakes,  pound 
cakes,  cooki(?s,  and  wafers.  They  may  be  plain  or  may  contain 
fruit  or  nuts.  DirtH'tions  for  mixing  and  baking  liutt^r  cakes 
are  given  on  pages  478  and  479-  Directions  for  filling  the  pans 
are  given  on  page  479. 

IKGREDIENTS    USED   IN   CAKES 

A  discussion  of  the  essential  mat<*rials  used  in  cakes  is  given 
on  pages  474  to  477.  Following  are  suggestions  on  certain  ac- 
cesftory  materials.^ 

♦  Mills,  Kfithmm  H  Making  Cake,  P»rt  I.  CorneU  Reading-Gbune 
for  the  Farm  Homt»,  Bulb  73, 


CAKES 


485 


Several  types  of  fruit  are  eomnionly  used  in  making  cake; 
first,  driwi  fruits  and  candied  fruits,  such  iis  currants,  raisins, 
citron,  cherries,  pineapple;  second,  fresh  raw  fruits,  such  as 
blueberries,  and  cherries;  third,  cooked  fruit  pulp,  such  as  apple- 
sauce and  Ijlackberry  jam.  As  a  p^encral  raile  it  may  \ye  said  that 
when  fruit  is  used  in  making  cake,  the  batter  will  need  to  be 
stiller  than  for  ordinary  cake^  the  stitTuess  depeutiing  on  the 
weight  of  the  pieces  of  the  fruit  to  be  held  in  place.  A 
cake  dough  {Containing  raisins  will  neecl  to  be  stiffer  than  one 
containing  bluel>erries,  and  a  cake  dougli  containing  l>hiebeiTiesJ 
wilt  need  to  be  stiffer  than  one  made  with  appk^sauce  or  jam.* 
Thii  presence  of  [larticles  of  dried  fruit  increases  the  difficultit^s 
in  baking  cake,  as  fruit  scorches  easily  and  some  of  the  fruit 
will  he  at  the  surface  of  the  cake.  Rich  fruit  cakes  should, 
therefore,  be  baked  in  a  very  slow  oven.  This  not  only  prevents 
scorching,  but  also  improves  the  flavor^  since  the  fruit  flavor 
blends  with  that  of  the  other  ingredients. 

Chocolate  contains  a  hard  fat  which  adds  richness  to  cake, 
but  which  tends  to  make  it  stiff  as  it  dries  out  or  if  the  cake  is 
kept  in  a  very  cold  place.  Chocolate  cake  that  is  made  wiHi 
sour  milk  and  soda  is  usually  softer  and  darker  in  color  than 
that  made  with  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder.  Chocolate 
contains  starch  which  thickens  the  batter,  so  that  less  flour  is 
needed  for  chocolate  cake  than  for  white  cake,  AlkaH  darkens  a 
chocolate  mixture,  and  a  little  soda  adiled  to  the  meltetl  choco- 
late Ix^fore  putting  it  into  the  batter  will  not  only  darken  the 
cake,  but  also  neutralize  any  free  fatty  acid  in  the  chocolate 
and  help  to  make  the  cake  light.  The  large  amoimt  of  soda  in 
eome  recipes  for  cSiocolate  cake  sei'ves  the  same  purpose. 

Cocoa  should  be  substituted  for  chocolate  by  weight  instead 
of  by  measure.  In  manufacturing  cocoa  nearly  all  of  the  fat 
has  teen  removed  from  it,  so  that  cakes  made  by  substituting 
cocoa  in  a  recipe  calling  for  chocolate  are  likely  to  be  bready 
unless  a  small  quantity  of  additional  fat  is  addtnl  (the  equivalent 
of  about  14  tablespoonfui  of  butter  for  each  ounce,  or  14  cup- 
ful, of  cocoa  used). 

NutB  are  lighter  than  fruit  and  are  not  likely  to  settle  to  the 


486  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


nXf 


iiottom  of  the  Mn;  thcTofore  they  do  ik^i  npecl  In  be  floured 
They  contain  fat,  and,  when  arlded  to  rieli  eake,  the  amount 
of  fat  in  the  recijK?  slioukJ  I>e  *ieere!i.stHi  in  projiortion  to  the 
rirhness  added  by  the  nuts.  J^Yoin  1  to  1}2  tablespoon fuls  Jess 
of  fat  to  each  eopful  of  nut.^i  is  usually  sufficient.  A  good  method 
of  preparing  nuts  for  cake  l.s  to  grind  (hern  ihnmgh  the  coarse 
knife  of  the  footi  chopper.  When  Enghsh  wahiuts  or  other 
nut  meats  are  I  nought  already  shelled,  they  hhould  tie  washed  and 
drieil  in  the  oven  before  beinjs^  uaed. 

Cakes  made  of  gotwl  materials  require  no  additional  flavoring. 
If  flavoring  is  desired,  fresh  fruit  juices  or  other  fr€*sh  flavors  arc 
preferable  to  conimereial  extracts. 


I 


CAKE    FILLINGS 

A  layer  cake  should  be  arranged  if  possible  in  such  a  way  tl 
the  bottom  of  the  layers  will  receive  tfie  filling,  beeaum- 
bottom  is  more  porous  than  the  top  and  cons<*quently  takes  the 
filling  l>etter.  Fillings  may  fje  classified  a8  cream  fillings, 
fruit  fillings,  and  pastes* 

CAKE   FR08TING8  I 

A  cake  may  be  merely  (histed  over  the  top  with  powdered 
sugar  and  the  layers  put  together  with  a  cream  filling.  The 
BUgar  will  stick  to  the  cake  l>etter  if  the  white  of  an  egg  or  fruit 
jelly  has  been  brushed  over  the  top  fii-st.  Fruit  or  nuts,  and 
sugar  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  of  a  cuke  before  it  is  baked. 

Frostings  which  are  made  of  sugar  and  liquid  and  which  com-  ] 
pletely  cover  the  surface  of  a  cake,  may  he  eitlier  cooked  or 
uneooke<l.  Various  kinds  of  sugar  may  Ik?  uscnlL  and  nutH  or 
fruit  if  clesirt>d.  Uncooked  frost  ings  should  be  niaile  of  eonfee- 
tioner*s  sugar.  The  sugar  should  always  be  sifte<l.  The  rules 
for  sugar  cookery  (page  57GJ  should  be  followed  in  making 
eookixl  frosting. 

For  cutting  a  frosted  c^ke,  a  knife  dipped  in  boiling  water 
stiould  l>e  used  in  order  to  pre\^ent  breaking  the  frosting. 

In  frosting  a  layer  cake,  it  has  been  founfl  helpful  to  pin  a 
strip  of  glazed  paper  about  an  inch  higher  than  the  cake  around 


CAKES 


487 


it.  This  will  serve  as  a  retainer  when  the  frosting  is  poured  on 
the  cake.  After  the  frosting  has  set,  the  strip  of  paper  should 
be  removed,  using  a  thin-bladed  knife  that  has  been  wet  in 
hot  water. 

Boiled  frosiings* 

In  making  boiled  frosting,  just  as  in  making  cake,  it  is 
possible  to  vary  the  amounts  of  ingredients  iiseil  in  propor- 
tion to  the  time  of  cooking.  There  are  three  ingredients 
essential  to  the  making  of  any  ^o-called  boiled  frosting,  water, 
sugar,  and  white  of  egg.  Cream  of  tartar  may  l>e  used 
with  good  effect,  for  it  gives  the  frosting  a  creamy  eonsist- 
eney,  but  if  none  is  at  hand  the  same  effect  may  be  produced 
by  substituting  vinegar  or  by  increasing  the  amount  of  water 
and  thus  prolonging  the  time  of  cooking.  When  the  amount 
of  white  of  egg  used  in  a  recipe  is  increased,  the  temperature 
to  which  the  sugar  solution  is  eooked  should  be  increased. 


Hecipe 


I  cup  sugar 
i4  cup  water 


1/16  teaspoon  rrenm  of  tartar 
White  ol  1  o|5g 


This  is  the  old  standard  recipe  and  it  makes  a  rather  dense, 
sweet  frosting.  The  addition  of  anotlior  cgg-white  will  make  a 
more  Huffy  frosting.  Since  eggs  vary  in  she,  Vs  ^'^P  c*f  white  of 
egg  may  be  useil  to  give  a  definite  result..  This  recipe  will  make 
sufficient  frosting  for  the  top  of  a  cake  about  nine  inches  in 
diameter. 

Method  L 

Dissolve  the  auKar  and  cream  of  tartar  in  the  water  over  the  heat, 
Btirring  the  mixture  only  imtil  the  sugar  is  cliKsn:)lv«Hi,  If  one  egg  is  to  tie 
usihIj  h't  tiie  sugar  mixture  ImiiI  until  it  renelu^  the  soft-ball  stage  (2!i8*'  F), 
or  until  it  forms  threads  when  8onie  of  it  is  ilropj>ed  from  the  tinc^  of  a 
fork.  If  two  eggs  are  to  Ik*  used,  boil  the  ttugiir  mixture  until  ii  reaches 
a  higher  temperature^  about  244°  F.,  the  hard-ball  stage.  Do  not  movgy 
the  dish  or  stir  the  sirup  during  the  remainder  of  the  i>priod  of  cooking*! 
Cover  the  pan  during  the  first  few  minutes  that  the  sugar  solution  is 

•  Mills,  Katherine  H.  Making  Cake.  Part  11.  Cornell  Reading-Co urae 
for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull  75.) 


488  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING  H 

boiling,  BO  that  iite&m  may  collect  on  the  sides  of  the  pan.  This  will  help 
to  prevent  the  format  ion  of  large  crystals  that  would  rause  the  simp  to 
crysUdlize  Ui  cfmrse  graias  and  that  would  spoil  the  Jexture  of  the  fronting. 
After  removing  the  eover  of  the  pan,  insert  the  cjindy  thermomel**r  and 
waflh  from  the  sldt^s  of  the  pan  any  crystals  that  may  form,  UHing  a  brush 
or  eloth  that  liaa  tieen  wet  with  eold  water.  When  the  s^inip  is  eooked, 
pour  it  Hlowly  on  the  i>cateii  white  of  the  e|Kg»  uaing  a  Dover  ej^-tx^atcr 
and  beating  continually  while  pouring.  Continue  beatini^  until  the  fmgt^ 
iDg  ijB  cooled  and  is  stiff  enough  to  spread  on  the  eake  and  r^-main  in  place. 
II  the  mixture  does  not  thicken  properly^  it  may  be  cooked  again  by 
Method  II,  twioe>oooked  frosting. 

Method  IL 

Distfiolve  the  sugar  in  the  water  and  boil  the  mixture  without  stirring 
until  it  reaches  the  hard-bait  stage  (246^  F.),  or  until  thn  sinip  whcfi 
dropped  from  a  sfxjon  will  form  a  Icmg  thremt  with  whort  thrt*adft  branching 
from  the  main  one.  Remove  the  ^irup  rarefully  from  the  fire»  and  allow 
it  to  eool  while  the  whites  of  the  eggs  are  being  beaten  until  they  are  utiff 
and  dry.  They  should  be  lx»aten  in  the  upper  part  of  the  double  txiiler, 
us  this  will  Rave  utem^ils,  materials,  and  time.  Pour  the  girup  slowly 
over  the  beaten  white;?*  of  the  eggs,  lieating  the  mi3cture  a^  long  as  possible 
with  a  Dover  egg-beater  and  after  that  with  a  sjKJon,  until  the  mixture  is 
h|?ht  and  stiff.  Set  the  dish  containing  the  frosting  over  hot  water,  and 
allow  the  mixture  to  cook.  Beat  it  eonntantly  until  it  is  light  and  fluffy, 
rises  slightly  in  the  pan^  and  as  it  is  stirrwl  begins  to  give  a  slight  scraping 
sound  against  the  sides  of  the  dish.  This  scraping  sijund  may  tie  learned 
only  through  exi>erience,  l)ut  it  is  easily  deteet*Ht  Remove  the  dish  of 
frosting  at  once  from  the  hot  wat^r.  If  the  frosting  is  cooked  too  long 
over  the  hot  water  it  will  be  granular.  The  frosting  will  probably  l>c  stiff 
enough  to  spread  at  once;  if  it  is  not,  stir  it  until  it  has  n*ached  the  proper 
consistency.  Thi.H  frosting  may  be  piled  on  a  cake  to  any  desiretl  thickness, 
or  it  may  be  used  in  a  tul^e  to  make  ornamental  frosting.  When  it  is 
properly  made  this  frosting  will  be  ver>'  light,  tine  grained,  soft  and  springy. 
AfteT  it  has  been  spread  on  a  cake,  it  will  form  a  thin  enist  on  top  and  will 
keep  moist  and  soft  underneath  for  several  days.  This  method  makes  a 
frosting  known  as  twicer-cooked. 

VariaHons, 

L  Allow  a  thin  layer  of  mplted  sweet  chr>ct:>late  to  flow  over  the  top  «jf 
the  frosting  aft<T  it  ha^*  bwn  spread  on  the  i^ake  and  a  thin  cnist  has 
formed  on  the  top. 

2.  Brown  or  maple  sugar  may  be  atibstituted  for  whit^o  sugar.  The  sirup 
must  be  boiled  to  a  higher  temperature  (2^0^  Fj  before  the  mixture  will 
Tench  the  soft-ball  stage. 

3.  Use  H  cup  of  dark-colored  strained  honey  and  %  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  or  use  H  cup  light-colored  strained  honey  and  Vi  cup  granulated 


I 


I 
I 


A 


CAKES 


489 


sugar.  Add  3  tablespoons  of  water,  and  boil  the  mixture  until  it  reaches 
the  soft-ball  stage  (240**  F.),  or  until  it  begins  to  form  threads  when  some 
of  it  is  dropped  from  the  tines  of  a  fork.  Add  the  sirup  to  the  white  of 
egg  in  the  manner  described  in  Method  I.  This  frosting  stiffens  but  does 
not  grain,  and  should  be  spread  on  the  cake  immediately  before  using. 

4.  Freshly  grated  cocoanut  may  be  Uberally  sprinkled  on  the  top  of  a 
cake  immediately  after  the  frosting  has  been  spread  on  it. 

5.  Chocolate  frosting  may  be  made  by  Recipe  I  for  boiled  frosting  by 
adding  2  squares  (2  ounces)  of  chocolate  to  the  sugar  and  water  mixture 
before  it  has  been  cooked.  The  directions  given  under  Method  I  may  be 
followed.  Another  method  is  to  add  melted  chocolate  to  the  white  frosting 
after  it  has  been  beaten  and  is  stiff  enough  to  spread.  The  amount  of 
chocolate  may  be  varied  to  suit  the  individual  taste. 

6.  One-half  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  figs,  raisins,  dates,  or  any  combination 
of  nuts  and  these  fruits,  may  be  added  to  the  frosting  just  bdtore  spreading 
it  on  the  cake. 


CHAPTER  XXm 

PASTRY 

By  Winifred  Moses  and  Lucile  Brewer 


Pastry  is  a  shortened  dou^h,  a  mixture  of  flour,  ahortening, 
and  liquid  put  together  in  different  waj's,  according  to  the  pur- 
pose for  which  it  is  to  be  used.  Three  kinds  are  in  conimoo 
use:  (1)  Plain  paiitr>%  in  which  the  shortening  is  worked  into 
the  (lour  by  cutting  or  chopping;  (2)  pufT  pii8tr>%  in  which  the 
shortening  is  workcnl  into  the  paste  by  folding  and  mlling; 
(3)  flaky  pastr>%  in  which  the  shortening  is  worked  into  the 
flour  by  a  combination  of  these  two  methmls. 


INGREDIENTS 


FUmr. 


Pa8tr>'  flour^  made  from  winter  wheat,  makes  the  best  pastry. 
It  differs  from  ordinar}'  bread  flour  made  from  spring  wheat 
in  (bat  it  contains  less  ghitcn  and  more  starch;  it  is  softer,  whiter, 
and  more  velvety.  One  4>f  the  In^st  tests  for  winter  wheat  tlour 
is  that  it  easily  retains  the  impress  of  the  fingers,  while  spring 
wheat  flour  tends  to  fall  apart  as  quickly  as  the  pressure  id 
removed. 

Bread  Hour  may  l>e  made  to  approximate  pastry  flour  in 
effect  by  substituting  two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  for  two 
tablespoons  of  Hour  in  each  cup. 

Liquid, 

Water  is  used  as  the  liquid  in  making  pastry.  It  should  be  j 
nearly  ice  cold  as  possil>le,  except  wlien  beef  drippings  and  wa 
water  are  used*  To  make  ptustry  ten<ler,  the  sniallejst  possible 
amount  of  water  that  will  hold  the  ingredients  together  is  u8o<l. 
The  actual  amount  depends  on  the  water-absorbing  quality  of 

49(1 


PASTRY 


the  flour,  and  on  the  amount  of  fat  usee! — the  more  fat,  the  less 
moist u re  required , 

FaL 

The  following  kinds  of  fat  may  be  used :  butter,  oleomargar- 
ine, vegetalUe  fat,  lard,  lani  mil^stitutes,  beef  drippings,  chicken 
fat,  and  suet.  When  suet  is  use<l,  it  is  tneltetl  over  boiling  water 
aofl  stirred  while  hot  into  the  flour.  The  paste  is  then  kneaded 
and  rolled  into  a  rather  thirk  shc^et  and  shapeil  in  a  mold.  The 
effa^ts  of  the  various  fats  are  as  follows:  lard:  a  soft,  tender 
crust;  eottolene:  a  soft,  tentier  crust,  slightly  ilarker  in  ci>lor 
than  if  lard  is  useti;  vegetalile  oils:  a  less  Haky  erust  and  darker 
in  color  than  if  lard  is  used;  suet:  a  more  compact  and  firm 
crust  than  if  lard  is  used.  It  has  been  fonnd  by  experiment 
that  more  butter  than  lard  is  reiiuired  and  more  lard  than  lard 
substitute,  and  that  le.ss  shortening  is  neeiled  when  pastry  flour 
is  used  than  when  bread  flour  hi  employed. 

For  1  cup  of  bread  flour  one  should  use:  Vs  cup  of  lard;  V? 
cup  plus  1  tal>les|K>on  of  butter;  Va  cup  minus  1  tablespr>on  of 
lard  sulistitute* 

For  I  cup  of  pastry  flour  one  should  use:  }4  cup  of  lard;  i4 
cup  plus  Vs  tablespoon  of  butter;  }4  ^W  minus  %  tablespoon 
of  lard  substitute. 

LanJ  makes  the  tenderer  crust,  but  butter  gives  the  l>ett^r 
flavor.    For  et|uivalent  measures  of  various  fats  see  page  477. 

Baking  poivder. 

Baking  powder  may  be  used  to  help  leaven  the  crust,  in  the 
proportion  of  i  j  teaspoon  to  1  cup  of  flour.  Usually  the  only 
leavening  agents  usetl  in  pastr}'  are  the  air  and  water  which  ex- 
pand w^hen  heated. 

Salt 

If  an  unsalted  fat  is  used,  salt  should  l>e  luided  in  the  pro- 
portion of  14  teaspoon  of  salt  to  1  cup  of  flour. 

CH.*LRAC"rERISTICS    OF   GOOD   PASTRY 

Lightness  depends  on  the  ainouiit  of  air  incorporated,  on  the 
expansion  of  that  aii*,  and  on  the  presence  of  baking  powder. 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


If  the  materials  used  are  cold  and  the  manipulation  is  carried  on 
in  a  cold  room,  or  if  the  paste  is  rhilled  by  being  plaeed  in  a  re- 
frigerator, the  expansion  of  the  inclostxl  air  is  greater  during  the 
Ijaking  process. 

FUikiness  results  when  the  ingredients  are  so  mixed  as  to  make 
layers.  To  aceompliah  this,  fat  is  not  thoroughly  mixed  into 
the  drj^  ingredients,  but  is  left  in  pieces  by  being  cut  in  with  ft 
knife  or  rubbed  in  with  a  spoon. 

Tenderness  depends  on  the  relative  amounts  of  fat  and  water 
used  and  on  the  inanipulation*  The  more  fat  and  the  less  water 
used,  within  limits,  the  tenderer  will  be  the  crust.  Handling 
the  paste  develops  elasticity  by  developing  gluten,  and  so  makes 
a  tough  crust.  If  the  fingers  are  used  to  mix  the  fat  with  the 
flour ^  the  heat  of  the  fingers  melts  the  fat  and  causes  it  to  act  aa 
hquid;  thus  more  flour  is  required,  which  tends  to  make  a  tough 
paste. 

DmECTIONS   FOR  MAKINQ    PLAIN   PASTRY 

Recipe  for  ptain  paltry. 

I  cup  flour  ii  teaspoon  salt 

ii-l/3  cup  shortening  Water 

(1)  Mix  the  flour  and  suit;  (2)  cut  in  the  fat^  and  add  only  pnouRh  water 
to  hold  the  inj^nxJieuts  together;  (3)  turn  the  mixture  onto  a  slightly  floured 
boaRi  and  turn  it  with  a  spatula  to  eover  it  evenly  with  flour;  (4)  if  two 
enist^  are  U*  1>e  itimle^  eut  the  paste  in  two  portifms  and  roll  them  ac^ 
arately  and  lightly  with  a  rolJing-pin,  timng  motions  outward  from  the  cen- 
ter; (5)  keep  the  douph  as  nearly  the  desired  shape  and  as  unifonn  in 
thickness  as  possibJe,  roll  it  until  the  paste  is  very  thin;  (6)  after  each  few 
rolling  motions,  loosen  the  dough  from  the  board  to  prevent  sticking. 

On$<ru^pU. 

Place  the  crufst  in  the  pie  pan,  being  careful  that  it  is  smooth,  but  not 
ftt  all  stretched.  A  perforated  pan  of  tin  or  agate  ware  is  best.  The  pan 
should  never  be  greased.  With  scissors  cut  around  the  edges,  leaving  n 
margin  of  about  H  inch.  Turn  this  slightly  under,  and  press  it  into  fancy 
ed^ei  with  the  fingers.  Fill  the  crust,  and  bake  it  in  a  roodemte  oven  for 
40  minutes.  Filliniips  for  one-crust  pies  are  made  with  milk  and  egg  founda- 
tions, such  as  custardf  cream,  and  pumpkin,  or  from  cooked  fruit,  such 
as  apple-sauce.  These  liquid  filhngs  are  likely  to  soak  into  the  pic  cniat 
during  the  process  of  baking,  making  a  soggy  crust.  This  may  be  avoided 
by  bruBhing  over  the  crust  with  w hite  uf  egg  and  placing  the  unfilled  cfusl 


I 
1 


1 


PASTRY 


493 


in  a  hot  oven  long  enough  to  coagulate  the  egg-white,  thus  forming  a 
coating  to  prevent  the  Ming  from  soaking  into  the  crust.  Or  instead  of 
heating  the  crust  in  the  oven,  the  filling  may  l>e  heated  separately  to  such 
a  temperature  that  on  adding  it  to  the  cnist  it  will  coaguliate  the  white  of 
egg. 

Cru.Ht  baked  wUhottt  fiUing, 

The  crust  is  sometimes  baked  first  and  then  filled  with  a  cooked  filling. 
Many  pernoas  prefer  this  kind  of  pie  since  the  crust  is  crisp  and  well  baked. 
Invert  a  pie  palate,  cover  the  outside  with  pu«try,  fit  it  carefully  to  the 
^>late,  and  press  the  edge  well  to  the  edge  of  the  plate.  Trim  the  edge 
if  nccessar^^  set  the  pie  plate  on  a  tin  sheet  to  prevent  the  edge  of  tlie 
pjuste  from  touching  the  floor  of  the  oven.  Prick  the  crust  well  with  a 
fork,  and  bake  it  from  12  to  15  minutes,  or  until  it  is  thoroughly  baked. 
Slip  the  crust  from  the  outside  of  the  pan^  and  put  it  in  place  a«  an  under 
crust.  Use  any  cooked  filling,  and  place  over  the  top  strips  or  figures  of 
baked  pastry,  or  a  meringue. 

Tifx>-cnM  pie. 

The  lower  crust  is  placed  in  the  pie  pan  aa  for  a  one-crust  pie,  but  in 
thi^  c^i»e  the  txigf\s  should  be  cut  close  and  evenly  with  a  knife.  The 
flavored  filling  is  then  added.  The  upper  cnist  should  be  rolled  rather 
thick,  bnished  with  butter,  and  lightly  sprinkled  with  fluur,  SliLn  should 
be  cut  in  the  crust  to  allow  for  the  escape  of  Bteam.  The  edges  of  the 
lower  crust  are  then  moistened  with  water  and  the  upper  crust  laid  over 
the  pie,  care  again  being  taken  not  to  stretch  the  crust.  The  edges  then 
are  cut  and  iirctised  firmly  together  into  a  fancy  shape  with  the  fingers  or 
ft  fork.  Allow  water  to  run  o%''er  the  top  of  the  crust  to  make  a  flaky  finish. 
If  a  shiny  finish  is  prefcrreil,  brush  over  the  top  with  a  mixture  of  slightly 
beaten  white  of  egg  and  water,  without  buttering  and  flouring  the  top. 
If  the  filling  is  of  a  juicy  type,  a  pap>er  tube  inserted  in  one  of  the  sHt^  in 
the  crust  will  allovv  tlic  steam  to  escape  readily  and  prevent  the  juice  from 
running  out.    Bake  the  pie  in  a  nioderate  oven  (page  480)  for  40  minutes* 

DIHECTIONS  FOR   MAKING   FLAKY   PASTRT 

Flaky  pastry  made  half  of  washed  butter  and  half  of  other 
shortening  is  used  for  pie  crusts,  turnovers,  cheese  straws,  and 
tJirts. 


Recipe  for  flaky  pastry, 

3  cupB  flour 
J^  teaspoon  salt 


H  cup  Bhortemng 
K  cup  washed  butter 

3/8  to  %  cup  water 


I 


(1)  Wash  the  butter  until  it  is  creamy  and  free  from  milk;  (2)  sift  the 
flour  and  salt  twice;  (3)  eut  the  !^  cup  Bbortcning  into  the  flour  with  a 


494  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


knife;  (4)  add  cold  witter  fp-adtialty,  niixing  it  with  a  knife  to  a  pasle  wm 
for  pbtin  pastry;  if  iniiM  not  l>o  sticky;  (5)  kiiead  it  slightly;  (5)  cscfver  it, 
and  set  it  in  a  cool  plaint?  tar  5  niiiiytes;  (7)  pat  it  with  a  rolling-pin,  and 
roll  it  out  into  a  rectangular  sheet;  (S)  fipread  half  the  butter  on  half 
the  surface  and  fr>Id,  pre«a  down  the  edgefl  ao  that  no  air  nor  butt4*r  can 
escape,  then  spretid  the  remainder  of  the  hutter  on  half  again  and  fold. 
pinching  the  ed^i^  tightly  t<}gether;  (9)  set  it  m  a  cool  place  again  for  3 
minutt^;  (10)  roll  the  pastry  two  or  three  times,  allowing  it  to  oool  be^ 
tween  each  turn;  (11)  rull  it  out  to  1/8  inch  thickness,  and  bake  it  in  a  hot 
oven  (page  4S0), 


1 


DIRECTIONS   FOR  >L\KING    PUFF  PASTRY 

Puflf  paste  is  iiserl  when  pastiy  of  great  flakiiie^  and  lightnes 
is  desired,  as  in  putty  shells,  tarts,  fruit  rolls,  tea  cakes,  Floren* 
tine  meringues,  and  the  iilte. 

Redpe  Jar  puff  pastry, 

1  pound  waahed  butter 
1J4  pounds  paatry  flour 
1  eup  ice  water 

(1)  Wash  the  butter  until  it  m  creamy  and  squeeze  out  all  the  liquid; 
(2)  separate  the  butter  into  mx  |Mrts;  (3)  take  out  >^  f)i>und  of  the  flour; 
(4)  cut  one  piece  of  butter  into  the  f>ountl  of  flour,  add  ice  water,  and 
mix  the  ingredients  lEito  a  paf^te  with  as  little  handling  aa  possible;  (5) 
knead  the  dough  until  it  is  smooth  atid  elastic,  cover  it,  set  it  in  a  cool 
place  for  5  miuuti^;  (6)  roll  the  paste,  outward  from  the  center,  into  a  r«N 
tangular  pie**e;  (7)  place  one  pit^e  of  the  butter  on  one-lialf  the  surfaoe, 
fold  the  pastry  over,  and  pinch  down  the  edges  to  keep  in  the  air;  (8)  fold 
the  right  tnlge  two-thirda  of  the  way  hack»  fold  the  left  edge  back  over 
this,  pinch  down  the  edges  again  so  that  no  air  or  butter  can  e^cajK?,  cover 
the  pti-stc,  and  let  it  f^and  in  a  cool  place  for  5  minutes;  (9)  roll  it  out  into 
another  rectangle,  and  repeat  the  former  proeem  with  the  next  pat  of 
butter,  being  sure  to  press  the  edges  each  time  to  keep  in  lx)th  the  air  and 
the  butter;  (10)  rejx'at  this  process  imtil  all  pats  of  butter  have  been 
us(h1;  each  time  Ix^fnre  rolling  the  fi^iHte,  turn  it  halfway  round  in  order 
to  roll  from  another  side,  and  always  roll  from  you;  (11)  after  the 
final  rolling,  the  paste  must  be  chillctl  on  ice  or  in  a  ver>'  cool  place  for 
an  hour  or  two;  {12)  bzike  it  in  a  hot  oven  (page  4tS0)  with  the  heat  coming 
from  bdow,  and  set  it  on  the  floor  of  even  a  gas  oven  for  the  first  5  minutott. 

Puff  pastiy  when  baked  should  be  eight  tinier  as  thick  ad 
when  put  into  the  oven.  It  ia  very  rich  and  has  a  surface  that  is 
lights  llaky,  and  rather  shiny. 


CHAPTER   XXIV 
YEAST  BREAD 

By  CluIRibel  Nye 

The  making  of  yea^t  bread  has  a  rertain  fascination  because 
siiwesa  defK'nds  largely  on  the  ]>roper  eon t  ml  of  living  organ- 
isms, or  yeiist^s.  If  tiough  is  left  for  too  long  or  is  kept  too  warm, 
the  yeast  plants  become  weakened;  then  the  bacteria  that  may 
be  present  grow  and  produce  an  acid,  making  the  bread  sour. 
The  milk  is  scalded  in  order  to  kill  any  bacteria  pres^ent.  Proper 
baking  of  bread  kills  all  bacteria,  yeasts,  and  molds,  and  insures 
its  keeping,  if  it  is  carefully  handled  and  stored  afterwards, 

INGREDIENTS 

The  essential  ingredients  for  yeast  bread  arc  flour,  yeast, 
liquid,  and  salt.  Other  ingredients  often  added  for  flavor, 
texture,  or  ktn^'ping  quality  arc  sugar,  shortening,  and  potatoes. 
In  place  of  the  custonxary  wheat,  corn,  barley,  oats,  rice,  po- 
tatoes, peanuts,  or  breadcnunbs  may  be  used. 
In  place  of  some  of  the  wheat  ordinarily  used,  corn,  liarley, 
oats,  riee,  potatoes,  peanuts,  or  breadcrurnljs  may  be  used. 

The  cereals  may  be  ground  and  added  witli  the  Hour,  or  they 
may  be  cookeil  to  a  mush  before  they  are  added  to  the  batter, 

Fhmr. 

The  l>est  bread  flour  is  called  strong  floiu*  and  is  made  from 
hard  spring  wheat.  This  wheat  is  grown  in  the  Dakotas,  Min- 
nesota, a  part  of  Iowa,  Nebraska,  northern  Kansas,  northern 
Colorado,  Wyoming,  and  Montana.  A  strong  winter  wheat 
is  grown  in  a  limited  number  of  states,  notably  Kansas.  A 
strong  Ijread  flour  is  slightly  granular,  has  a  creamy  color,  and 
gives  bread  of  maximum  volume. 

495 


496 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


i-m3^ 


WTieat  and  rye  flours  are  particularly  adapted  to  bread 
ing  because  they  contain  materials  which,  when  mrn  '   form 

an  elastic  substuiH'c,  called  gUitetK     The  gluten  »  ^  wi 

the  pressure  of  heated  gases  in  baking  and  fonns  a  franiew 
surroimding  the  other  ingredients,    A  good  yea^st  I jreiwl  general 
contains  some  wheat  or  rye  Hour,  although  other  cereals  can  wdl 
be  used  to  a  certain  extent. 

The  present  complex  standardized  process  of  mxlljnfc  whi 
18  the  result  of  a  gradual  remarkable  development  which 
in  the  daj^  when  women  %vere  millers,  the  mill  consisting 
two  stones  between  which  the  grain  wa,s  grountK    The  pateni 
or  roller,  process  now  used  produces  a  flour  tlilTerent  in  col 
composition,   and   bread-making   qualities.     Although    whe 
milled  by  the  roller  process  fields  a  flour  that  gives  a  white  I 
and  consequently  makes  its  appeal  to  the  eye,  the  flour  con 
less  of  the  entire  wheat  kernel  than  that  produced  by  the  01 
method. 

The  patent  reduction,  or  roller,  process  is  so  named  becaujie 
the  wheat  is  reduced  to  flour  hy  being  put  through  a  series  of 
^ie^A  rollei's.     The  wheat  is  first  cleaned,  and  then  gradual 
reduced  to  flnyr  as  it  passe.*^  through  a  series  of  steel  rollei 
e^ch  pair  adjusted  to  give  a  finer  jiroiluct  than  the  preeetlinj 
As  tlie  wheat  passes  through  each  set  of  if»llei*s,  a  little  of  it  i 
reduced  to  flour  anrl  the  remainder  is  called  middlings, 
middlings  are  then  carrifxl  through  the  next  roller;  each 
the  result  i*s  flour  and  middlings.    The  bran  cannot  be  redii^ 
to  flour  but  is  flattened  by  the  steel  rollers  and  separatcnl  froi 
the  Hour,    The  quality  of  the  flour  that  results  from  the  blen 
ing  of  tlie  flours  oljtained  from  the  diJTerent  rollers  depends 
the  skill  of  the  miller. 

Flour  is  sometimes  said  to  be  80  per  cent  patent.  Thi 
usually  means  that  80  per  cent  of  the  flour  obtained  from  t 
wheat  in  the  diflFerent  stages  of  milling  has  been  blended  fi 
market.  The  term  "  patent*'  flour  came  into  use  when  the  rt>ller| 
or  patent,  milling  process  was  introducetl;  its  nieaiiing  at 
present  time  is  not  uniform  throughout  the  country. 

Graham^  from  whom  graham  flour  received  its  name,  believ^ 


YEAST  BREAD 


497 


that  the  entire  wheat  kernc4  should  be  used  for  food  and  de- 
veloped a  milling  process  hy  which  all  the  kernel,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  outer  inetliljte  coats,  was  usetL  At  the  present  time, 
most  graham  flour  is  made  by  comljining  i^ran  and  white  flour. 

Whole-wheat  flour  does  not  contain  so  \iu%e  a  percentage  of 
the  entire  wheat  kernel  as  does  K^'^ham,  However,  graham, 
Ijecaose  of  its  coarseness,  may  be  irritating  to  the  digestive  tract 
of  some  pei^ons. 

White  flour  contains  less  of  the  wheat  kernel  than  does  either 
w^hole-wheat  or  graham. 

Yeasts  are  very  small  plants,  having  a  diameter  of  al»out 
3/1000  inch.  In  bread-making»  yeast  serves  two  functions: 
(1)  hy  its  action  on  the  sugar  of  the  flour  it  forms  carbon  di- 
oxide gas,  which  makes  the  dough  light;  (2)  it  gives  the  char- 
acteristic flavor  which  is  found  in  bread  only  when  yeast  is 
used. 

Before  yeast  was  sold  commercially,  women  used  to  obtain 
it  by  exposing  batter  to  the  air  for  several  hours.  The  difficult}'' 
with  this  method  was  that  various  yeast  i)lantH,  fis  well  us  other 
organisms  present  in  the  air,  might  enter^  whereas  only  one 
type  of  yeast  Is  best  for  bread-making.  Thus  the  flavor  of  the 
bread  was  not  always  desirable.  Old-fa^^hioned  litjuid  yeast, 
or  potato  yeast,  represents  the  housekeeper's  metliod.  The 
yeasts  grow  and  umlUply  rapidly  in  potato  water  to  which 
ealt  and  sugar  have  been  added.  This  mixture  is  then  kept  in 
a  cool  place  until  needed  1  for  bread-making;  The  disadvan- 
tage of  liquid  yeast  is  that  other  yeasts  and  organisms  find 
their  way  into  the  mixture  and  may  give  the  bread  a  peculiar 
flavor. 

For  the  commercial  producti  one  form  of  yeast  is  grown  under 
ver>'  carefully  standardized  conditions.  The  yeasts  are  mixed 
with  cornmcal  and  the  mixture  pressed  into  cakes  and  dried; 
or  the  yeasts  are  mixed  with  starch  or  tapioca  flour,  pressed 
into  cakes,  and  sold  in  the  form  of  compressed  3^east.  In  the 
dried  form  they  will  keep  in  fairly  good  condition  for  months; 


498 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


cornpresBed  yea«t  keeps  for  only  a  few  days,  but  the  yessi 
mnvli  more  active  than  it  is  in  the  dry  cakes  and,  therefor 
bread  can  l>e  made  more  quickly  from  it. 


Lu/uid. 

The  liquid  used  in  bread-making  may  be  water,  whole  milk, 
Hkimmcil  milk,  whey,  potato  water,  rice  water,  or  the  like. 
Incrciised  nutritive  value,  as  well  m  lx?ttcr  flavor  and  textu 
are  points  in  favor  of  using  milk  in  »ume  of  it^  forums  inn 
of  water. 


tureuj 
tea4| 


MIXING   \ND    KNRADIN«J 

Milk  for  making  breail  is  scaldetl  in  order  to  kill  any  organ- 
isms that  might  develop  under  the  favorable  conditions  offered 
and  thus  give  the  bread  a  bad  flavor. 

The  ix^st  tcmperalure  for  the  growth  of  yeast  is  75**  to  90* 
F.  Below  40°  to  tK)"*  F,  yeast  will  not  grow.  It  i^  kilkxl  at  140** 
F.  Therefore,  the  liquid  is  cooled  until  it  is  lukewann  befordj 
the  yeast  Is  added, 

Sp&nge  method. 

For  the  sponge  method  of  mixing  bread,  sufficient  flour 

used  to  make  a  batter.    This  is  IJ2  cups  of  flour  to  1  cup 
liquid,    The  mixture  is  set  aside  until  the  surface  is  coverefl  with 
l)ul>l)l(*s.    Sufficient  Hour  to  make  a  dough  is  then  addetl.    Th 
sponge  method  is  followed  frequently  when  dry  yeast  is 
Yeast  plants  grow  rapidly  in  a  thin  batter,  and  as  they  are  nc 
in  an  active  state  in  dry  yeast  rakes,  the  batter  makes  possible" 
a  quick  growtli  of  yea^t.    With  compre.88ed  yeiist  the  sponge 
method  is  unnecessary. 

Straighl-dough  method. 

For  the  straight-dough  method,  sufficient  flour  to  make 
dough  is  added  as  soon  as  the  yeast  has  been  added  to  the 
liquid.    The  dough  is  removed  to  a  floured  board  and  is  kneade 
until  it  is  smooth  and  elastic,  and  until  it  will  not  stick  to  ao^ 
untlouriKl  board.     Iviieadiug  is  for  the  purpose  of  thorou 


YEAST  BREAD 


499 


mixing  all  the  ingredients,  developing?  the  elasticity  of  the  gluten, 
and  incorporating  air  into  the  dough. 

Mixing  bread  by  a  nmchinc. 

If  three  or  more  loaves  of  hreatJ  are  being  made,  a  bread- 
mLxer  saves  time  and  labor.  If  '^he  correct  proportion  of  flour 
to  liquid  is  used,  and  the  mixing  is  continued  until  the  dough 
smooth  and  elastic,  the  same  result  will  be  obtained  by  machine- 
mixing  as  with  equal  care  by  hand-mixing.  Frequently  too 
much  flour  is  used.  This  causes  slow  rising,  and  if  the  dough 
is  made  into  loaves  before  the  rising  is  coniplcte,  the  resulting 
bread  will  be  compact  and  inferior  in  other  respects. 

FERMENTATION 

The  rising  of  dough  until  it  goes  into  the  pan  is  called  fer- 
mentation* The  best  temjierature  for  the  growth  of  yeast  is 
80°  to  87''  F. 

If  a  strong  or  good  gmcle  of  bread  flour  is  use<I»  the  dough 
should  treble  its  original  size  in  the  first  rising.  If  a  weak  or 
poor  grade  of  flour  is  used,  the  dough  will  only  double  its  original 
size. 

The  texture  and  the  flavor  of  bread  is  improved  by  a  second 
rising  of  the  dough.  The  dough  should  increase  its  original  size 
by  only  one-half  during  the  second  rising. 

SFIAPING    DOUGH 

No  flour  should  be  used  in  molding  loaves.  The  dough  is 
molded  by  folding  the  sides  under  several  times.  It  is  ptaeed 
in  a  greased  tin  with  the  crease  on  the  bottom.  The  tins 
should  be  only  half  filled  with  the  dough. 


PROOFING 

The  rising  in  the  pan  is  called  '*  proofing." 

This  rising  can  be  more  rapid  than  in  fermentation.  Com- 
mercially, loaves  are  proofed  at  a  temperature  about  10°  above 
that  of  fermentation. 


fiOO 


A  MAS  UAL  OF  ffOME-MAKISG 


LoaTes  are  ready  to  be  baked  when  they  have  doubled 
origiiialsbie. 

The  bakmg  tcimperature  dependi  eomewhat  on  the  amount  of 
and  sbortenmg  iLsed  id  the  dough.    With  an  increase  i^ 
'  and  shortening,  there  should  be  a  deereaji^  in  tcmperatiUM 
The  best  temperature  for  plain  bread  dough  is  froui  380*  la| 
400^  F.     Loaveg  weighing  13^  pounds  should  be  baked  frain 
SO  to  00  minuter  at  from  380**  to  400**  F. 

A  unifunn  temperature  during  the  entire  baking  period  gives 
good  results,  although  many  authorities  beUeve  tlie  temfiera- 
ture  should  l>e  inereased  after  the  first  15  nunutes.  Dou^ 
should  rise,  or  f^pring,  during  the  first  5  minutes  it  is  in  the  i 
At  the  end  of  15  minutes  it  should  begin  to  brown,  and  aa  1 
continues  the  bread  should  draw  away  from  the  sides  of  the 
and  hvQwn  on  all  sides. 

If  a  soft,  fihiny  crust  is  desired,  the  loaves  should  bo  \ 
5  minutes  Ijcfore  baking  is  completed. 

Bread  should  be  removed  from  the  pans  as  soon  as  it  is  taken 
from  the  oven*  The  loaves  should  be  cooled  quickly,  in  cir- 
eulating  air  and  not  covered. 

"rope"  in  bread 

A  condition  in  bread  that  causes  considerable  trouble 
financial  loss  in  bakeries  and  occasionally  in  home  baking 
ad  led  ^^ropiness,"  and  the  bread  is  known  as  ^*ropy  bread" 
Such  bread  for  several  hours  after  baking  looks,  smells, 
tfustes  like  any  well-made  bread;  then  there  quickly  clevelo] 
a  most  diaagr©eal>lc  odor.    When  the  loaf  Is  broken^  the  interi< 
is  slimy,  sticky,  and  stringy.    Such  breads  of  course,  is  not 
for  food. 

**  Rope'*  IS  the  result  of  the  action  of  a  form  of  bacteria  which, 
if  present,  is  found  in  the  flour    It  rlovelops  only  in  ver>' 
weather*    The  organism  chiofly  responsible  for  ropiness  is 
t-o  lie  geJierally  distributed  in  the  soil,  The  hest  flours  may 
Infected,  and  it  is  impossible  in  buying  flour  to  know  whetht»r 
the  organism  is  present. 


ucn, 

saiifl 

'tht»r 


YEAST  BREAD 


501 


When  the  difficulty  is  found,  all  utensils  and  containers  used 
for  flour  ^  bread -making,  or  storing;  bread  sliould  b(?  sterilized 
by  boiling.  In  making  bread  from  the  remainder  of  the  flour 
on  hand  or  from  additional  flour  of  the  same  brand  bought 
during  the  hot  weather,  vinegar  shoukl  be  added  to  the  hquid 
in  the  proportion  of  two  per  cent  of  the  amount  of  flour,  or ' 
about  1  tal)lespoon  to  each  pound  of  flour.  In  all  other  respects 
the  bread  should  be  made  in  the  usual  way.  The  bread  will 
not  have  as  good  a  bloom  as  under  normal  conditions,  but 
otherwise  it  is  not  inferior. 


RECIPES 

White  bread  (2  loams) 

2  tablespoons  sugar — brown  or  granulated — honey,  molasses,  or 
sirup,    (The  «iigar  may  be  oimtt<?d,) 

2  tablespooas  any  kiml  of  ahortening.    (The  shortening  may  be  omitted.) 

2}  2  t^ivsptxias  salt 

2H  t'upa  liquid — ^^water,  scalded  milk,  rice  water,  or  whey 

M  to  2  cakps  dry  ot  compressed  yeaiit,  or  2/3  to  2  cups  potato  yeast 

6  to  8  Clips  white  bread  flour 

Tlie  amoimt  ot  flour  varies  slightly.  A  smafler  quantity  of  good  bread 
flour  than  of  poor,  i;^  requirwl.  If  the  flour  is  ilariip,  more  must  \w  used 
than  if  it  is  dr>\  The  shortening  anti  tht*  Bugitr  may  he  ornittecb  If  the 
bread  is  to  l>e  made  in  8  hours,  only  H  cake  of  dry  or  compressetl  yeast 
or  2/3  cup  of  liquid  3'east  need  he  used.  If  the  bread  is  lo  he  made  in  4 
Iwmrs  or  less,  2  cakes  of  dry  or  compressed  yeast  or  2  eupa  of  liquid  yeast 
are  needed. 

General  direciians  for  mixing  and  baking  brmd 

(1)  Add  the  hot  scalded  milk  or  other  liquid  to  the  sugar,  the  saJt^  and 
the  shortening;  (2)  when  this  is  lukewarm,  add  the  j'east,  which  has  been 
softened  in  a  smafl  amount  of  lukewarm  water  (tluH  water  in  included  m 
the  amomit  of  liquid  given  in  the  rt'cipe);  (3)  add  one-half  the  amount  of 
flour  ealknl  for  in  the  reri[M>;  beat  the  mixture  well  and  tidd  the  remainder 
of  the  flour  slowly  until  the  dough  ins  stiff  enough  lo  knead;  (4)  knead  the 
dough,  u.sing  as  little  flour  as  possible  on  the  board,  and  adding  only 
enough  fl<*ur  to  keefi  the  dough  from  sticking;  continue  kueading  until 
the  dough  is  f^mrKjth  and  will  forn>  a  hall  that  does  not  flatten  out  when 
it  stands  on  the  board;  when  the  dough  does  not  stick  to  the  board, 
on  which  there  is  no  flnur,  it  has  been  suthciently  kneaded;  £5)  moisten 
the  top  of  the  doush  \vith  watt^r  or  fat  to  prevnt  a  cruj<t  forming  on  it^ 
cover  the  dough  with  a  towel,  and  set  it  aside  to  rise  in  a  wann  place  at  a 
temperature  of  about  S5^  to  9CJ°  F,;  (G)  when  the  dough  has  ri.sen  until  it  is 


A  MANUAL  OP  HOMEMAKtSG 


ssa 


Vmvst  ite  origliMJ  aise,  woric  il  down  b^  foldaiif  tht 
iDoonrcrihc  doiisb  acMO,  ftod  alUiw  it  U»  rte  imlll  il  bfti 
bf  ow^lalf;  (8)  timpe  tbrn  dcMigJi  into  IcMire^  ami  plm 
fMiM,  filUng  the  pum  about  half  full;  (9)  alkm  tlw  loaw  to 
mm  double  in  bulk  when  the  dough  will  bepn  to  fottow  the 
pBDi;  (10)  bake  the  loaveB  for  50  to  60  roinutee  in  a 
a  lemptTsture  from  3W  to  400°  V.;  the  bread  ahouU 
at  tht»  f^d  of  15  tmnui««;  (11)  remove  the  bread  from  the 


fcMir 


m 

tifitiltlifx 
of  Cha 

to 
nil 


and  place  the  loavm  where  they  will  cool  quickly;  do  not  eoircr  Hm  Uiad 
while  it  ia  hot;  ( 12)  if  a  aoft,  afainy  eruat  ta  desired,  greaae  the  mil 6  n» 
otci  before  the  baking  ia  completed. 


rS9 

betwdT 


For  VBiiation  in  kind  of  hreodf  uae  the  recipes  and  dircctiona  lor  \ 
wlutc  bread,  sulMtitutitig*  according  to  the  following  wa^gm 
flour  or  oensala  for  part  of  the  white  flour.    The  ^uhntitutea  may  be  * 
ID  llfgar  pfoportionn  than  are  hrre  indioited,  but  the  loavw  will  not  be  m 
tight  or  BO  fliinilar  to  white  bread. 

Entire  whvat  brt^:  6  cupa  entire  wheat  flour,  2  cupa  white  bread  fiour. 
Follow  the  gemaiil  diraclions, 

C^rahain  bmd:  6  eupe  graham  ilour,  2  cups  white  bread  flour.  Fotiow 
the  gmerat  diroetionn,  ~ 

Rolled  ohU  bread  (not  kneaded):  IH  cups  roUed  oata,  5% 
bread  flcmr,    J'uur  IxiUing  milk  or  othiT  liquid  over  the  oata,  tlie  aalt,  i 
the  augar.    When  thr  mixture  is  lukr^warm,  add  the  yeasit.    Add  tlu!^  f 
and  beat  the  dough  woU.    Wlxm  if  Uns  ihmUM  in  l»ulk»  l>cftt  it  welL 
if  into  grcaaed  brfod  tiitn.     When  it  Um  doubltxi  in  bulk,  Lmki?  it  for  ! 
hour.    Generally  mol oases  or  brown  sugar  is  used  instead  o(  granu 
sugar, 

Hfjllivi  rmU  hrciid  {knviuhK\):2  cufw  rolled  oats,  6  cupe  white  bma4J 
Arid  iUv  tmilini;^  litjuid  to  the  rolled  oatd.  the  salt,  thesugiir,  and  thai 
mtc;  whrn  i\w  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast.    I'hcn  add  the1 
km  lid  th<^  duuKh^  and  proceed  according  to  the  general  dirvctiona. 

Rii-e  brt^nil:  'J  inj|»«  cooked  rice,  rice  watt^r  for  liquid,  3  cufia  graham  floor,' 
5*4  cufM  wluie  hrrwl  flour.     Boil  ^  cup  of  rice  in  2  quarta  ol  unaallel 
wnUT  for  from  15  tn  20  minutes.    Drain  the  nee,  and  dry  it  aofncwliaL 
Follow  tho  general  dirc»ctions. 

Whrat  bread  fbrtiadcruiiilm):  2  cups  breadcrumbs,  &H  <*upa  whil« 
bread  flour.  Add  thi'  ^Milling  liquid  to  the  breadcrumbs,  sugar,  shortcnini; 
and  •uilt.    \Vlicn  th<»  mivtiin*  is  luki^warm,  follow  the  genrral  directjocia, 

Wheiit  hn*iid  (homt»-groijnd  wlieat):  4  cups  home-ground  wheat,  4  to 
4)4  cup«  white  hn*nd  flour.    Follow  the  general  directions, 

l^tato  flour  l»re!ul:  2  rap*  potato  flour,  5H  cups  white  bread  floor. 
Follow  the  genemi  directions, 

Hyc  bread:  3  cupa  r>'e  flour,  4}4  cupa  white  bread  tlour.     Follow  tbo 


d 


YEAST  BREAD 


general  dirpftions.  Since  the  dough  is  soft  and  aticky,  it  is  difficult  to 
knead;  but  do  not  let  this  tempt  you  to  add  more  white  flour. 

Barley  bread:  414  cups  homisground  l)ariey  meal,  4^2  cnip^  white  l:)read 
flour.  Follow  the  general  directions.  One  cup  of  barley  makes  l^i  cups 
of  barley  meal. 

Com  brcMid:  2  cups  cornflour,  7  cupa  wiiite  bread  dour.  Follow  the 
general  directions, 

Cmnbination  yeast  breads  (3  loaves)* 

Directions  for  making  these  combination  breadii  follow  the  recipes* 

Potato  Bread 


White  Breai>  (Baaic  recipe) 
13  cups  flour 
2  tablespoons  com  sirup 
5  teaspoons  salt 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 

1  quart  water 

Corn  Bread 
8  cups  flour 

1 J4  Clips  commealj  uncooked 
5  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  com  sirup 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
5  cups  water 

Rolled  Oats  Bread 
8  cups  flour 

2^4  cups  roUcil  oats,  uncooked 
2  tablc?spoons  niokisses 
6.  teaspoons  salt 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
5  cups  water 

Rice  Buead 
8  cups  flour 

1  cup  rice,  uncooked 

2  tablespoons  corn  sirup 
5  teafipoons  ^t 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
5  cups  water 


8  cups  flour 

2  pound.s,  or  1  hi  quarts  potatoes, 
uncooked,  diced 

7  teaspoons  salt 
2  tablespoons  corn  sirup 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 

4  cu|js  water 

Bean  Bread 

8  cups  flour 

1  cup  beans,  uncwjked 

2  tablesiX)ons  rorn  sirup 

5  teavSfKJons  salt 
2  cakc%H  compressed  yeaat 

6  cups  water 

Barley  Bread 

7  cups  flour 

1  cup  barle.v,  uncooked 

2  tablespoons  molasses 
5  teaspoons  salt 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
5  cups  water 

BnEADCRttMB  Bread 

8  cups  flour 

4  cups  breudcrtjmba 
2  tablespoons  molasses 

5  te^Lspoons  salt 
♦2  cakes  compresstHl  yeast 

4  cups  water  (or  milk  and  water) 

(1)  To  prepare  the  substitute,  soak  beans  or  barley  overnight,  drain  off 
the  water,  measure  if,  anti  add  sufficient  water  to  make  1  quart,  then  cook 
the  beans  or  barley  in  this  until  they  are  s*:ift;  c<iok  the  cereiU  in  1  quart  of 
*  Charles  Taylor. 


504 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


the  water  called  for  in  the  rc^cipe  and  the  potato  in  3  cups  until  it  i»  oolt; 
madh  the  poUito;  grind  the  broad  in  a  chopper,  adding  li  cups  t>f  lukewarm 
water;  (2)  combine  the  hot  mush  or  mashed  potato  or  breAdcninihg,  tho 
salt,  and  the  ?^\vrM>tpnmg,  stirring  the  tiuxtiire  often  enough  to  ?ivoid  Qmi 
formation  of  uny  fiUn^  until  it  Iulh  cooled  to  blocKi  heat;  (3)  when  it  is  Iiike*! 
wann,  add  the  yeast  which  has  lM?en  softened  in  1  cup  of  water,  reducing } 
the  yeast  one-half,  and  increasing  the  salt  oni'-fowrth  if  the  bread  is  set  ( 
overnight;  (4)  add  the  flour,  and  kneiid  flic  dough  thoroughly^  using  ad 
little  flour  on  the  l>i>ard  a.s  ^>o8siljle;  (5)  let  the  dough  ri.se  for  3^  hooTB, 
or  until  it  has  doublcti  in  Imlk  at  the  approxinitite  temp<»rature  of  75*  F,;  ] 
(6)  wt>rk  it  down,  and  let  it  riw  again  fur  IJi  hours,  or  until  it  has  in»| 
creikscd  Hs  size  by  one-half;  (7)  mold  it,  place  it  in  pans,  and  let  tt 
until  it  has  almost  doubled  in  bulk;  (8)  bake  the  loaves  for  60  to  60  tmn*  \ 
utea  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  or  at  a  tefnperature  of  atW*  to  400"  F. 
(9)  remove  the  bread  from  the  pana  at  once,  and  cool  it  quickly. 

On  account  of  the  reduced  amount  of  gluten  in  theae  breads,  they  must ' 
be  molded  and  handled  with  great  care. 

Wheatless  yeast  breads,  * 

Quick  rifting  neeim  to  give  best  result"?  with  wheatless  y«a«t  breadL 
Therefore,  a  hyger  pnijKjrtion  of  yeast  is  usmhI  tlian  is  Decenary  whon  lllft 
dough  is  allowed  to  rine  overnight. 

The  best  loaf  is  nia^lc  from  dough  whicli  is  »o  soft  that  it  inuei  be  atirml^ 
not  kncnided. 

Only  [)art  of  the  flour  should  tie  added  at  the  beginning.     WTien  tfao 
sjxmge  has  risen  for  alxjut  20  minutes,  it  should  Ih>  Ijeaten  or  stirred  tbor-  ^ 
oughlv;  then  the  rtHiiainitig  flour  nhould  lie  added  and  the  dough  turned  B 
into  the  pan.    It  should  l)e  allowed  to  rise  in  the  pan  for  al>out  ^10  minutes^  ^1 
or  until  it  rounds  \%\\  slightly.    Thi^se  doughs  never  double  in  bulk  ia  the 
rising  as  do  wheat  doughs. 

iSmall  loav<^  made  from  these  heavy  cereals  are  likely  to  have  a  better 
ftha|je  and  texture  than  large  ones,  although  one  hmf  may  h^  made  from 
the  recir)es  given. 

Slow  baking  gives  the  bi^st  results.  From  \%  to  IH  houra  in  a  laitty 
alow  oven  is  the  time  recommended. 

Barky,  oat  and  rice  flour  brecul  (2  &nall  totwea)^ 

2H  "^^P^  barley  flour  2  teaspoons  aalt 

J4  eup  ric**  flour  1  tablespoon  com  sirup 

1 1-2  cujM  ground  rolled  oats  1  cake  cfimpressed  yi-asl. 

1  cup  milk  H  cup  lukewann  water 

Soften  the  yeast  in  the  fukewama  water.  Scald  the  milk,  and  add  the 
Halt  and  sirup.  When  the  mixture  is  lukewann,  add  the  yr  *  'the 
bfu-ley  flour  and  rice  flour,  sifte<L     Beat  the  dough  well,  an  r  to 

llae  until  it  is  hght.    Add  the  sifted  oat  ilour,  and  turn  the  ..».v,,,iv  oilo 

*  Lueile  Brewer. 


i 


YEAST  BREAD 


505 


list 


greased  pans.    Allow  it  to  rise  for  20  or  30  minutes,  and  bake  It  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  from  1  to  1}^  hours* 

Barley  and  rice  bread  (2  snmU  loaves). 

4  cups  barley  fiour  1  tablespoon  t-orii  sirup 

1  cup  Ixiilecl  rice  I  cfike  comprf^stnl  yeiisi 

1  cup  milk  }.{  (Mxp  liikrwariti  water 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Soften  the  yea^t  in  the  lukewarm  water.  Beakl  the  milk,  and  add  the 
sirup  and  salt.    When  the  mixture  in  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast. 

SALT-RISING   BREAD 

All  olcl-faahioned  hread,  the  making  of  whii*h  is  almost  a  lost 
art  to-<lay,  is  called  salt-risiiij^  hread.  No  yeast  la  used*  Gas 
from  a  certain  type  of  bacteria  found  in  coromcal  is  the  leaven- 
ing  agent.  Dough  niatle  from  freshly  Ri'otmd  commeal  rises 
much  more  rapidly  than  that  from  old  eorumeal;  in  fact,  failure 
'generally  results  unlo.^s  fresh  eorimieal  is  used. 

The  bread  is  handled  in  the  same  way  as  3^east-raised  bread, 
except  that  the  entire  process  can  be  earrietl  on  at  a  somewhat 
higher  tem{>erature  than  h  |>os.Hib!e  with  yeast  lu^ead. 

The  odor  of  salt-rising  iiread  during  fermentation  and  proofing 
is  characteristic.    No  other  dough  is  like  it. 

Salt-rising  bread  is  finer  in  texture  than  yeast  bread,  and  some 
persons  believe  it  is  more  easily^  digested. 

Recipe  for  saltrrisitig  bread  {S  loaves). 

(1)  In  the  evening  make  a  mush  of  2  tablespoons  of  eornmeal  and  about  H 
ctip  of  scalded  milk*  KtH^p  it  in  a  warm  place  overnij^ht.  (2)  In  the  morning 
mix  together  1  cup  lukew^arm  water,  ?  2  teaii|X)on  imlt,  }2  teaajxjon  aoda»  1}^ 
cups  flour,  eornmeal  mush,  (3)  Cover  the  mixture,  and  place  the  dish  in 
warm  water  until  the  mixture  is  light.  (4)  To  2  cups  lukewarm  water  add 
2  teaspoorL^  of  n^dt  and  3  cujm  of  flour.  Add  to  this  the  cornme:\l  leavening 
mixture.  .Ulow  the  mixture  to  ri.se  until  it  is  light.  Then  adtl  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  it  until  it  is  smooth,  make  it  into  loaves, 
place  it  in  tins,  and  allow  it  to  rise  until  it  is  double  in  bulk.  Bake  it 
according  to  the  general  directions. 


CHAPTER   XXV 


9 


COOKING  OF  CEREALS 

By  Mabt  F.  Henby 

Ckreau5  in  jt€*ri<^ral  are  a  cheap  soiiree  of  energy  but  then*  am 
wide*  (HfTerencPi*  in  tlu*  cost  of  the  various  oereab  thpinselvesL 
Rolled  oats,  the  whole-whe^t  grain,  aud  LX}rnmefi]  are,  under 
ordinary  coarlitionSf  the  cheapest  enerKy-yieldin(?  foods.  The 
ready4o-eat  and  the  partly  cooked  cereab  are  from  two  to  t^i 
timeH  a«  expensive  aj4  the  raw  cereals.  Attention  given  to  th© 
proper  cooking  of  the  raw  cereals  and  to  simple  varintionfi  in 
serving  them  will,  therefore,  help  to  keep  the  food  bills  low, 
while  at  the  same  time  the  family  is  provided  with  a  nutritiotM 
and  appetizing  food. 

Proportion  of  cererd  and  water. 

No  nile  for  the  proportion  of  cereal  and  water  can  be  given 
that  will  apply  to  all  kinds  of  cereals,  or  that  will  give  a  con- 
aJBteney  which  will  satisfy  every  t.a^te.  The  kind  of  cereal^ 
the  method  of  manufacture,  and  the  method  of  cooking  affeei 
the  amount  of  water  that  should  be  us«K  Oreal  cooked  in  a 
fireles-s  cookt*r  requires  le-ss  water  than  that  cfxiked  in  a  double 
boiler  lKH:*aus€*  there  Ls  Ie>is  evap«3ration.  Cereal  cooked  in  a 
double  boiler  requires  less  water  than  that  cookc<l  directly  over 
the  fire,  for  the  same  reason.  The  table  here  given  suggests 
proportions  of  water  and  cereal  that  may  be  used.  Modifiea- 
tinn  may  be  made  to  suit  tlie  taste. 

The  proportion  of  salt  should  be  3>^  to  1  teaspoOQ  for  every 
cup  of  water. 

Timt  required  for  cooking  cereals, 

Cercak  retpiire  long»  slow  cooking  to  make  them  palataf>1 
and  digestible.     Just  as  the  various  cereals  call  for  diff< 


oua  V 


COOKING  OF  CEREALS 


m 


proportions  of  water,  so  they  require  tiifFerent  lengths  of  tinie 
for  cooking.  The  whole  j(raiiis  unci  the  ^roiimi  grains  contaio- 
ing  large  amounts  of  rellulose,  sucli  as  whole-wheal,  oatmeal, 
or  Ralst Oil's  brc^akfast  fooil,  require  a  longer  time  for  cooking 
than  the  grains  that  naturally  or  l>ecause  of  the  process  of  manu- 
facture contain  less  cellulose,  such  as  rice  or  cream  of  wheat. 
The  time  of  cooking  may  Ijc  refluccft  consideralfly  by  soaking 
the  cereal  for  several  hours,  or  even  as  long  as  overnight,  to 
soften  the  cellulose.  This  soaking  may  be  esf)€'cially  desirable 
in  the  case  of  whole  cereals.  Since  the  cereal  in  this  way  absorbs 
a  considerable  amoimt  of  water,  an  equal  amount  should  be 
deducted  from  that  used  in  t^ooking  the  cereal. 

lliens^ils  for  cooking  cereah, 

A  firelcss  cooker  is  particularly  well  adapted  for  cooking 
cerealSi  since  it  gives  the  desirable  long,  slow  cooking  and  makes 
possible  a  saving  in  attention  and  fuel  A  double  boiler  is  the 
next  most  convenient  utensil.  Cereals  may  be  cooked  directly 
over  the  fire  if  the  temperature  is  kept  low,  but  since  there  is  a 
tendency  to  shorten  the  time  of  cooking  because  of  the  attention 
rectuired  to  prevent  Imniijig,  this  method  is  in  general  not 
recommended.  Even  jf  stirred,  cereal  cooked  in  this  way  is 
likely  to  stick  to  the  kettle  and  make  it  difficult  to  wash. 

Diredions  for  cooking  cereals  in  a  double  boiler. 

(1)  Mea^urt'  the  water,  and  bring  it  to  the  twiling  point  in  the  upper 
part  of  a  double  boiler j  (2)  when  the  water  w  boiling  vigorouidy,  sprinkle 
the  dry  cereAl  into  it  slowly  in  order  not  to  stop  the  Ixjiling,  as  thii?  will , 
prevent  lumping;  (3)  stir  the  eert*al  only  wlightly  to  prevr'tit  sticking  and 
allow  it  to  boil  from  5  to  10  minutes,  or  uiiHl  it  thickens;  (4)  cover  the 
container,  and  phuM*  it  over  the  lower  part  of  the  dotilile  boiler,  which  is 
filled  line-third  full  with  boiling  water;  (5)  cook  the  cereiil  for  the  required 
length  of  time,  kwping  the  water  in  the  lower  piirt  of  the  double  boiler 
constantly  lx)iling, 

Diredions  for  cooking  cereals  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

(1)  Cook  the  cereal  in  the  fireless  cooker  container  over  direct  heat  for 
5  or  10  minutet?  according  to  the  directions  jiL<?t  given  for  the  use  of  a 
double  bfiiler;  (2)  when  the  eerefil  has  boilni  5  or  10  minutes,  cover  the 
container  and  place  it  tis  quickly  aa  possible  in  the  fireless  cooker  and 


I 


d 


A  MANUAL  OP  HOME-MAKING 


allow  it  to  rcmaio  ovemiglht.  If  a  hot  aoapstane  ia  uaed,  4  or  5  bmirv' 
cooking  may  be  giifficiont.  If  neoesMuy,  refi^it  Uie  cereal  oiror  cUrpot 
beat  or  in  a  container  of  boiling  wat«r  before  nerving  it. 


TABLE  XXX.— Co3ifr>ro  or  C««ka(j9 

M«i*«irt 
(cup.) 

TwmM^C9okum 

Kimdoftmml 

kmi 

Atmrntrnt 

I^iiUolin*t 

Cmiiii  of  whe»t , 

FAfinA 

Cominettl   . . ,  , 
Entirt'  train  wbcftt. 
RaIsIod'a   ...,-,.. 

3to2it 

2to2H 
4(o5 
4  to£ 

3V^  l4jfi 

5U>  10 

r*ut  10 

dto5 
3  to& 

5U»  10 
5  to  10 
5  to  10 
5Lo  10 
f.  to  10 
^  In  10 
5  to  10 
5  to  10 

3 

;t 

1 
1 

2u>2 

3 
0 

fttoR 

3 

DvsnuKbt 

Ovrmieht 
Ov*«Ttii«ht 
Ovrrni«ht 

Ovvraicbt 
Ovcmicbl 

Overnicbt   ' 

Oreniacbt 

Overuicbt 

2 

4  ftmttt 

4«r»tti 

4  w«ai 

an 

4  Must 

OftimeiU 

3*^ 

4Kmiift 

4H 

I  If  tbe  EnlMf  e6Cikif  fi  ommI,  from  H  ^^  H  cap  Ifiv  w%Ut  ■h<yuld  be  ftdd«d  tbaa  k 
giveo  in  tbi»  toble. 

yarta£um«  in  coai:t>i(7  and  Berving  hrrnkfa^i  cereuU. 

Cereals  may  be  cookwl  in  milk,  or  in  a  combination  of  milk 
and  water.  Slightly  more  milk  is  neceesary  than  when  wat4*r 
alone  is  used.  The  use  of  milk  in  cooking  cereals  offers  a  way 
of  increiksinK  the  milk-content  of  a  meal  and  makes  the  diah 
more  nutritious.  Figs  or  raisins  may  he  choppKxl  fine  and  stirriHl 
in  a  few  minutes  before  starving.  Bananas,  berries,  or  other 
fnjit  may  be  served  with  the  eereal.  Combinations  of  two  or 
more  kinds  of  cereals  are  good  for  variety. 

Uses  for  kft-oif€r  cereals. 

Left-over  cereak  may  be  8er\*ed  in  various  ways.  The  cereal 
may  be  pourcHl  into  individual  molds  and  8er\'ed  as  pudding 
with  fruit  sauce  or  cream.  Dates,  figs,  or  other  fruit  may  be 
added  lH*f(»re  it  is  molde<.l.  If  the  cereal  is  suffirienth'  stiff, 
it  may  be  molded  in  a  loaf,  sliced,  browned  in  a  small  amount  of 
fat,  and  served  with  sirup  or  tomato  sauce.  Left-over  cereal 
may  be  userl  for  a  part  of  the  flour  in  muffins,  pancakeSi  or  other 
brands,  and  in  scalloped  dishes  or  croquettes. 


I 
I 


A 


COOKING  OF  CEREALS 


How  to  pop  corn,* 

For  good  rpsolts  in  popping,  t  he  main  rcquif^itcs  are  good  vom 
and  a  good  hot  fire.  In  popping?,  certain  precautions  may  be 
observed  to  good  advantage.  Too  much  pop-eom  should  not 
be  taken  at  one  \um%  not  more  than  enough  hai'ely  to  ^ovev  the 
bottoiu  of  the  popper  one  kernel  deep.  The  popper  should  be 
held  high  enougJi  al>o%^e  the  fire  or  heat  to  keep  from  hurnirig 
the  kernels  or  scorching  them  too  quickly.  The  right  degree 
of  heat  for  best  results  in  popping  should  make  good  corn  (M^gin 
to  pop  in  13  2  minutes.  This  should  give  tlie  maximum  volume 
increase  in  popping.  If  it  begins  to  pop  in  less  time  or  if  a  large 
quantity  of  corn  is  put  into  the  popper,  it  will  not  pop  yp  so 
crisp  and  flaky.  If  it  takes  much  longer  for  the  popping  to  be- 
gin»  the  heat  is  probably  not  great  enough  or  the  pop-corn  is 
of  poor  quality,  or  there  may  be  other  mterfering  causes,  such 
as  drafts  of  cold  air. 

To  preserv^e  the  snow}^  whiteness  of  the  popped  kernels,  the 
flame  must  be  kept  from  striking  them.  This  can  be  done  by 
placing  a  plate  of  iron  or  a  stove  lid  between  the  com  and 
the  fire  if  a  wire  fjopper  is  used  or  by  using  a  pan  popper  if 
popping  directly  over  a  flame. 

If  the  pop-corn  is  in  first-class  condition  and  the  heat  properly 
applied,  1  pint  of  mipopped  com  should  give  15  to  20  pints  of 
popped  corn. 


I 


•  Hartley,  C.  P.,  and  Willier,  J.  G, 
Agr. 


Farmej3*  Ball.  553»    U.  S.  Dept.  of 


CHAPTER  XXVI 

MEAT  AND  POULTRY 

By  LuciLE  Brewer 

Although  meat  is  not  a  necessity  in  the  diet  (page  410), 

the  estimate  is  thut  in  the  United  States  about  one-third  of  the 
total  expcnciiture  of  money  for  food  is  for  meat.  This  countr>' 
8how8  the  highest  per  capita  consnmptitm.  Douhdess  one  of  tho 
reasons  for  this  large  eonsiuiiption  is  that  meat  has  an  appetij^- 
ing  flavor  and  is  ejisily  cooked,  esijceialiy  tlie  tender  cuts.  Amer- 
ican cooks  have  not  yet  acquired  the  skill  of  European  and 
Oriental  cooks  in  flavoring  foods,  nor  do  they,  under  ordinary 
conditions,  devote  sufficient  time  and  t!iou(?ht  to  the  prepara- 
tion of  meat-suhstiiute  dishes.  However,  with  the  rising  cast 
of  meat,  more  attention  is  Ijeinf^  paid  tn  the  totigh,  and  cooae- 
quently,  cheaper,  cuts  and  to  the  complete  utihzation  of  all 
meat  bought* 

SELECTION   OP  MEAT   BY   APPEARANCE 

Beef  should  Ik?  6rm  and  fine-grained  in  texture.  It  should 
have  a  bright  red  color  and  be  well  mottled  with  fat.  The 
fat  of  beef  should  be  hnn  an<l  of  a  yellowish  color.  Suet 
should  be  dry  and  should  crumble  reathly.  For  cuts  of  beef,  see 
Fig.  118. 

Veal  should  be  of  a  pinkish  color.  The  fat  should  he  firm  and 
white. 

MuHon  should  be  a  bright  pink  color  and  fine-grained.  The 
fat  of  mutton  should  be  hard  and  flaky.  The  outside  akin 
ahould  come  off  easily.   For  cuts  of  nmtton,  see  Fig.  119. 

Lamb, — The  bones  of  lamb  are  reddish  in  color  while  thoae 
of  mutton  are  white. 

610 


I 

I 

I 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


511 


Pork. — The  skin  of  pork  should  lje  white  and  clear.    The 
flesh  should  be  of  a  pinkish  tint.    For  cuts  of  pork  see  Fig.  120. 


WKl 


^ 


\     ^^'^■ 

p  1 

/  LOU 

■A 

1   R^IIA 

Nil 

ibnouLDtF 


NwK 


Fio.  118.-— Cuto  of  beef. 


Fio.  119. — CiiU  of  mutton. 


Pm//fr?/.— Chickens  should  have  soft  feet,  a  smooth  skin,  and 
soft  cartilage  at  the  eml  of  the  breast  bone.  An  al>untjajice  of 
pin  feathers  indicates  a  young  bird.     Long  hairs  indicate  age. 


512 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKJNO 


ontfl 


The  feet  of  fowls  are  hard  and  dry,  witli  coarse  scales.     The 
cartilage  at  the  end  of  the  breast  bone  has  become  ossified* 

good   turkey   should    be   plump; 
legs  sfiould  be  smooth,  and   the  e^ 
tilage  at  the  end  of  the  breast  boi 
should  be  soft  and  pliable.     (Page 
524). 

GENERAL  RULES   FOR   COOKING 

Meat  is  cooked  to  soften  cotmect 

ive  tissue,  to  develop  flavor,  fo  rrir 
prove   appearance^    and    to   destr 
Imeteria  or  other  orj^nisms. 

The  cuts  of  meat  may  lie  divW 
into  two  classes,  the  tough   and 
tender.      Although   the   tough    cuta 
are  as  nutritious  as  the  tender  and. 
are  cheaper,  more  skill  and  ingenuitj 
are  required  to  make  them  pulatablcwl 

Both  nutritive  material  and  flavor! 
are  retained  in  meat  by  searing  ove 
the  surface  at  the  begiiuiing  of  tl 
cooking  period.     This  may  be  dou€ 
by  plunging  it  into  boiling  water 
hot  fat,  or  by  placing  it  in  a  hot  ovenl 
or  over  an  open  fire  as  in  broiling^] 
thus  using  direct  heat. 

Tendir  cuts. 

Only  the  tender  cuts  should 
cooked  with  dry  heat.  After  thfl 
meat  has  been  quickly  seared  witt 
intense  heat  to  retain  the  juices,  th< 
temperature  should  be  lowered  di 
Pio.  m-Cutaofpork       j^^   ^1^^   remainder  of  the  cooking 

Even  thetender^t  cuts  of  meat  may  be  toughene<I  by  cookini 
at  too  high  a  temperature.     The  tender  cuts  are  fine  grain 
and  require  le^s  time  for  cooking  than  do  the  tough  cuts* 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


613 


Broiling  and  roasting,  which  develop  a  fine  flavor,  can  be 
used  only  for  tender  €Uts.  The  l>est  cuts  for  broiling  are  porter- 
house, sirloin  J  cross  cut  of  rnmp  steak,  and  tlie  soeond  and  third] 
cuts  from  the  top  of  the  rounil.  Pcnterhouse  and  sirloin  st€ 
are  the  most  expensive  because  of  the  loss  of  bone  and  fat* 
Round  steaks  are  juicy,  but  they  have  a  coarser  fiber  and  are 
not  so  tender  as  porterhouse  and  sirloin. 

Steaks  should  be  cut  at  least  one  inch  thick;  they  may  be  as^ 
thick  as  two  or  three  inches. 

Most  of  the  fat  on  steaks  should  be  tried  out,  clarified,  and 
used  for  shortening. 

The  best  cuts  for  roasting  are  the  middle  of  the  sirloin,  the 
back  of  the  rump,  and  the  first  three  ribs.  The  tip  of  the  sir- 
loin and  the  back  of  the  rump  make  large  roasts  that  are  more 
economical  than  the  sirloin.  Rib  roasts  contain  more  fat 
and  are  somewhat  cheaper  than  other  roasts* 

Tmi^h  Oils, 

The  tough  cuts  are  the  ones  containing  muscles  which  the 
animal  has  used  most  actively  and  include  the  shin,  knuckle, 
ami  round  of  the  leg,  the  neck,  and  the  sltoulder. 

Methods  of  making  tough  meats  tender  are  chopping,  adding 
fat,  marinating  with  oil  antl  vinegar,  long  slow  cooking  in  moist 
heat  at  a  low  temperature,  and  breaking  the  fibem  by  pounding 
them  with  a  sharp  instrument.  Tough  cuts  of  meat  require, 
long,  slow  cooking  to  be  made  tender  and  palatable.  Tough ^ 
ends  of  the  temler  cuts,  such  as  |X)rterhouse  steak,  should  be 
cut  off  and  specially  cooked  in  such  a  way  that  they  can  be 
utilized,  instead  of  being  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  the  tender 
part  antl  then  discarded  because  of  their  toughness.  If  it  is 
desired  to  extract  some  of  the  imtritive  material  and  flavor  for 
8ouj>,  sauce,  or  gravy,  the  meat  should  be  put  into  cold  water  and 
heate^I  slowly.  Tough  cuts  that  are  to  be  used  for  stew  may  be 
cut  in  small  pieces  and  browmed  before  the  long,  slow  cooking, 
if  this  Ijrowned  flavor  is  hked.  Meat  cooked  for  a  stew  may  be 
drained,  rolled  in  egg  and  buttered  crambs,  and  brow^ned  for 
variety*   The  broth  may  be  thickened  and  served  as  gravy. 


614  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 

Swiss  itieak 

1)4  pountlH  rouiid  i^teiik,  ^y^-l  €up  flour 

1 14  to  2  inches  Ikirk  li  rUccs  liarott 

1  small  union  Halt  and  popper 

Pound  Uw.  firmr  into  both  sides  of  the  piece  of  steak.  Cook  the  barcm 
and  fllieed  oniun  until  brown.  Add  the  jiieat,  brown  each  side,  nnd  ndtl 
wiiter  or  t.i>m«to  juice  hardy  to  cover  the  steak.  Cover  and  Eumiiier  it 
im  thi^  stove  or  place  it  in  the  oven.  When  it  is  half  done,  aeason  with  sail 
and  jKipper. 


*1 

mpsB 


GENEliAL   DIRECTIONS   FOR  SOUP-MAKINQ 

Soups  may  he  ekissified  as  follows:  Soups  with  stocky  as  bouil*^ 
lon^  brown  stock,  white  stock,  eonsoraoi^,  laiiib  stock;  soups 
without  stock,  as  cream  soups,  purees,  bisques;  and  chowders* 
Only  soups  with  stock  will  he  considered  here.  Cream  soups 
have  white  sauce  as  a  basis  (page  552).  Since  the  purpose  in 
makitig  soup  is  to  draw  out  as  much  food  substance  and  flavor- 
ing material  m  possible,  the  hones  or  meat  should  be  placed  id 
cold  water  and  should  be  heated  slowly. 

Bones  are  hkely  to  be  better  utilized  if  a  receptacle  is  kept  for 
Boup  materials  only;  then  ev^er>'  few  days  the  soup  kettle  may 
be  placed  on  the  stove,  if  the  soup  kettle  is  always  kept  ou 
the  stove  and  especially  if  the  amount  of  material  is  large,  as  in 
the  case  of  hotel  soup  kettles,  there  is  danger  of  food  poisoning 
because  the  repeated  heating  and  cooling  of  the  meat  and  broth 
furnishes  excellent  conditions  for  the  growth  of  certain  harmful 
microorganisms.  If  sparingly  used,  fresh  pork  and  ham  bones 
make  good  additions  to  soup.  If  thei*e  is  a  small  amount  of 
soup  stock  on  hand,  it  may  he  used  with  the  water  from  boiled 
potatoes,  rice,  celery,  and  the  like,  to  make  a  delicious  soofiw 
Soup  stock  may  be  used  in  white  sauce  or  brown  sauce  to  im- 
prove the  flavor. 

If  clear  soup  is  wished,  only  bones  should  be  used,  because 
meat  would  have  to  be  strained  out  and  would  probably  be 
wasted.  Meat  that  has  been  used  for  making  soup  has  lost  its 
flavor  but  not  its  nutritive  qualities;  consequently,  if  a  house- 
keeper wishes  to  be  thrifty,  she  will  boil  the  soup  meat  for  a 
shorter  time,  or  imtil  it  is  tender,  and  serve  it  with  the  soup.. 


I 


MEAT  AND  POULTEY 


515 


A  soup  made  in  this  way  with  the  addition  of  rice,  pearl  bar- 
ley, macaroni,  or  vegetables  makes  an  appetizing  luncheon 
dish. 


BouMfin 

4  pounds  of  mexit  without  bone 

4  pints  CO  id  water 

1 1^  teaspoons  salt 

1(K12  peppercorns 

4  cloven 

1  cup  canned  tomato,  if  desired 


\i  teaspoon  pepper 
^^  teaspoon    sweet    herbs 
Bay  leaf 

VW  tablespoons  eaeh  of  earrot, 
onion,  celery 


To  make  bouillon :  (I )  f  lae  a  kettle  with  a  tight-fitting  cover  to  keep  in  the 
flavors;  (2)  wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth;  (3)  trim  off  undesirable  por- 
tions; (4)  cut  in  small  piect^;  (5)  plare  the  meat  in  the  kettle;  (ji)  cover  it 
with  eold  water  and  allow  it  to  stand  I'i  hour;  (7)  brinj^  it  to  the  Himmering 
point,  180"  F.p  and  cook  it  For  5  or  6  hours,  never  allowing  the  soup  to 
boil;  (8)  add  the  vegetables  and  aeai^onings  1  hour  before  serving;  (9) 
strain  off  the  liquid  and  set  it  away  uncovered  to  cooL 


Drmtm  mup  Jdodo 

6  |>ounds  shin  of  beef 

3  quarts  cold  water 

K  teaspoon  peppcrconiB 

6  cloves 

H  bay  leaf 

3  sprigH  thyme 


1  spng  marjoram 
3  sprigs  i>ar8ley 
Carrots 


Turnips 

Onion 

Celery 

1  tablespoon  salt 


}4  cup  of  each  cut 
in  dice 


To  make  brown  soup  stock:  (1)  Wipe  the  bee^f ;  (2)  cut  the  lean  meat  in 
cubes;  (3)  bmwn  one-third  of  it  in  a  frying  pan  in  marrow  from  the  marrow 
bones;  (4)  put  the  remaining  two-thirds  with  the  bone  and  fat  in  the  soup 
kettle;  {5)  let  it  stand  for  30  niinutc!s;  (6)  add  the  browned  meat,  and  heat 
it  gradually  to  the  boihng  point;  (7)  remove  the  scum;  (8)  cover  the 
kettle  and  cook  the  meat  slowly  for  6  hours;  (9)  add  the  vegetables  1  hour 
bf*fore  it  is  done;  (10)  strain  the  stock;  (11)  cool  it  as  quickly  as  possible; 
(12)  clarify  it. 


White  ]foiip  fitovk 

4  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal 

1  pound  lean  Ijeef 

2  quarts  boiiing  water 
6  slices  carrot 

1  onion 


1  large  stalk  celery 

J^  texiapoon  peppercorns 
H  bay  leaf 

2  sprigs  thyme 
2  cloves 


Follow  the  directions  for  l>ouillon* 


616  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKIXG 

TABLE  XXXI, — Me^ts  for  Soup  axd  Brottb 
Meal 

Shin  soup  bi>nc«. 

Hind  shiink  bo  up  bones . 
Knuckle  stmp  bone .  .  ,  , 

OxUil . 

lieef  neck 

Beef  flhotilder  clod . 

Beef  round 

Shoulder  of  mutton 
Neck  of  mutton  .  . 
Shanks  of  mutton      ,      .  .  ,  


CABE    OF  MEAT 

Meat  should  he  remov'ed  from  the  wrapping  paper 
as  it  comes  from  the  market,  since  the  paix?r  absorhs  some  of 
juices. 

Before  meat  is  rooked,  it  should  1h>  wiped  with  a  eloth  wning 
out  of  cold  water.  It  yhould  never  be  allowed  to  stand  in  a  paxi 
of  cold  water,  since  tlie  juices  are  in  this  way  drawn  out 

Meat  must  be  kept  cool  in  a  refrigerator,  a  eool  cellar^ 
spring-house  or  a  well.  It  must  also  Ikj  carefully  prt>tect 
from  flies. 

Since  broth  offers  excellent  conditions  for  the  growth  of  l>ae- 
teria,  it  should  I>e  draineil  ofT  meat  that  is  to  be  kept  for  any 
length  of  (inn*  I>efore being  s<»rved* 

If  conditions  for  keeping  meat  are  very  unfavorable,  it  ma; 
be  di|>ped  into  a  large  quantity  of  Ijoiling  w^ater.    This  does  n 
seriously  affef't  its  flavor,  and  it  tends  to  prevent  the  meat  frmi 
8jK>iling.    Veal  and  pork  may  be  partly  cooked  before  being 
stored. 

When  canned  meats  are  opened,  they  spoil  more  quickl; 
perhaps  than  fresh  tucats;  therefore^  they  should  b«.*  eonsum 
with  iis  little  delay  as  possible.    Under  no  circumstances  shi 
they  he  left  in  a  tin  can  after  it  is  opened. 


Dfl9 

an 

i 

ny 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


517 


11 

e<9  Pt  c^  CO  e*! 

Zl 

U2m 

J 

1 

1 

CO 

1 

1 
> 

1 

< 

1 

lili 

•3 

2 

,F^         1 

> 
1 

1 

n 

7?377 

c^  s^ 

5J 

& 

^ 

w 

g 

fa 

M 

a 

1 

J 

1 

??1 

T 

3 

-& 

egg 

IS 

"3 

M 

0 

1 

liiL 

1 

0: 

^ 

O    0}  3  ^    & 
1  1   g   1   1 

II 

■§•3 

11 

H    D 

< 

££  ^6  ji 

^■^ 

^^ 

rl 

pni 

u 

w 

iM           1^ 

1 

1 

B 

3 

§ 

lull 

1 

1 

^ 

n 

111 

1  £a-i5i2 

I'd 

Sou 

111 

>  >  >          • 

518 


A  UANVAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


^1 

*1 


^  —  ee  06  «f  B 
CO  «  M  «^  -^  : 


I  «  M 


n 


I* 


1 


It 


ti 


I 


Si   H  MP  , 


n 


s 

■s  -  -    -  _ 

St 


:  £  fi  t  t 
i  -D  ^  -^  ^ 


^  PQ  0 


S^X^^^im   |2^|S3 


Ja 


&:S| 


S^  ^  m 


£15:33 


=»     O     3     - 


ill 


^  ^'^  A  <t  ^  J» 


i 
4 


1*,      .■^       —       :«     _^    .. 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


619 


KEEPING  MEAT* 

After  slaughterings  the  rncat  iiridergoe.H  several  changes. 
Immediately  after  l)eiog  killed,  the  fiesh,  especially  in  young 
and  well-nourishefl  animals,  is  juicy  and  tender.  On  account 
of  the  elotting  of  the  myosin,  after  a  short  time  rigor  fnortis 
ensues  and  the  meat  becomes  stiff  and  hard.  In  the  third  stage 
to  whieh  the  nieat  soon  passes,  it  becomes  again  soft  and  tender, 
owing  in  part  to  the  action  of  lactic  acid  on  the  sarcolemma  and 
connective  tissue.  This  process  should  not,  however^  be  al- 
lowed to  go  too  far^  or  the  meat  will  become  "  high  "  and  have 
a  disagreeable  odor  and  flavor. 

This  development  of  the  lactic  acid  rendering  the  meat  tender, 
is  caUed  "rijxining"  of  the  meM.  Refrigeration  retards  tiiis 
process,  hence  meats  can  be  kept  fresh  for  a  considerable  time 
at  a  low  temperature  (below  40°  F,),  The  experiments  by  P,  F. 
Trowbridge,!  show  that  as  long  as  the  amount  of  lactic  acid 
continues  to  increase,  the  meat  appears  to  be  improving  in 
quality.  At  a  certain  stage,  however,  basic  bodies  begin  to 
separate,  which  neutrahze  the  lactic  acid  and  thus  cause  a  de- 
crease in  the  amount  of  this  free  acid.  The  meat  is  still  edible 
after  this  decrease  has  begun,  but  whenever  enough  basic 
bodies  are  hberated  to  neutralize  the  lactic  acid,  the  meat  has 
then  reached  a  stage  of  incipient  putrefaction  and  is  no  long^ 
fit  for  food. 

Game  is  often  allowed  to  *'hang*'  until  the  changes  of  de- 
composition are  we[l  marked  and  in  this  condition  it  is  highly 
rehshed  by  epicures. 

USE  OP  MARKET  TRIMMINQS  ANT>  MEAT   FAT  IN  COOKING  J 

Market  trimmings  vary  with  the  customs  of  the  locality  and 
the  character  of  the  cuts  bought,  but  it  is  certain  that  a  saving 
can  be  made  if  the  trinunings  are  brought  home  and  used  in 
cooking  or  for  other  purposes, 

•  Bailey,  E.  H.  8,    The  Source,  Chemistry  and  Use  of  Food  Products. 
t  Misi4ouri  A^.  Exp.  Sta. 

t  IFsher.  Susannab.  Waste  nf  Mi'at  m  the  Home*  Part  11.  Cornell 
Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Hume,  BuU.  109. 


I 
I 

I 
I 


I 


820  A  MASVAL  OF  BOMB-MAKINO 


imfaA 


After  bdDi  IrM  oulaiid  cbrified,  wUmmsiimBitnm  i 

and  boixie  trinuntop  of  beef  and  mottoo,  dnppa^  from 
bMson  fai,  fiwh  pork  ffti,  and  mmt^  ba  eaa  be  eombined  or 
lifted  nngljr  in  oooidn^  For  fiTiEis  croqqeltes,  bfcaJed  diope» 
Ffcacfa  fried  potatoeiy  and  the  like,  s  mixttoe  of  nnmm  GiUb» 
Meh  as  beef,  miilloo,  and  bacon,  is  exeeDeiii.  The  craeUfaigi 
from  tried^oui  suet  are  ^ood  far  ahorlefiing  in  com  eakas  anil 
auel  piiddioffi* 

In  baymg  met  aeparately,  it  fibocdd  be  remcmbcued  Uiat 
falii  from  aU  parta  of  the  aniinal  do  not  melt  at  the  same  tam- 
pcruture.  For  example,  cod  suet  melts  at  a  lowar  teinperattira 
and  ii,  therefore,  a  softer  fat  than  is  kidn^  suet.  For  some 
kinds  of  cocikiriK  the  softer  fat  m  much  to  lie  preferred. 

In  f^eneral,  faU  are  abnoHt  completely  digested,  althoufdi  ex- 
p**rioic*ri»H  in<lir4tte  tlial  fats  with  low  melting  points,  such  as 
butter  and  olive  oil,  are  digested  more  completely  than  those 
with  high  melting  points,  such  as  mutton  fat  and  beef  fat. 


Teniperalure  of  cooking. 

More  iinfK)rtant,  however,  than  the  kind  of  fat  eatecii 
method  of  treatment  of  fat  in  the  process  of  cooking.  Fat  food^ 
that  arif  ba«lly  cooked  or  other  foocis  that  are  poorly  cooked  in 
fat  (ire  often  un«u«pected  sources  of  digestive  troubles*  Over- 
heating fat)  that  l*^)  heating;  it  to  the  point  where  bltie  smoke 
is  vi«il>le,  cau^ci*  dcK^ompositiou  witJi  the  formation  of  substaooos 
that  are  irritating  to  the  digestive  tract.  It  is  suggested  that 
the  ahs^orpt ion  of  ci^r tmn  of  thesie  materials  into  the  blood  stream 
may  cauwr  di«tur})ances  more  far-reaching  than  is  yet  known. 

On  the  other  hand,  cooking  food  in  fat  at  too  low  a  tempera* 
ture  in  not  without  ill  effects,  as  it  causes  the  fat  to  be  soaked 
up  and  the  food  to  be  covered  with  layers  of  fat;  this  retards 
the  action  of  (he  digestive  jui<!es  and  causes  delay  in  the 
ably  prompt  passage  of  food  from  the  stomach. 


Flamr  and  hardness. 

Two  objectionn  an^  ii.^ually  offered  to  the  lUilization  in  cool 
ityj  processes  of  the  ban  lor  fats,  such  as  fjeef  and   mutton^ 


d 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


521 


namely,  the  flavor  and  the  Itardnefls,  The  iiartlnet^^  may  be 
overcome  by  mLxing  them  with  softer  fat^,  such  a>s  lard  ami  cot- 
tooseetl  oil.  The  flavor  may  }>e  modified  by  careful  rendering 
and  by  disRuisinK  it  as  in  savory  fat. 

Various  coinljinations  of  fats  may  he  used;  for  example,  one 
part  of  bacon  fat  and  two  part.s  of  mutton  fat,  one  part  of  lard 
or  fresh  pork  drippings  and  two  partvS  of  mutton  fat,  one  part 
of  sausage  fat  and  two  parts  of  mutton  fat*  Many  IiouHokeepers 
say  that  they  do  not  have  time  to  mix  the  fats  together  in  ac- 
eurate  proportions;  they  therefore  mix  their  hard  and  soft 
fats  in  any  amounts  that  happen  to  fje  at  hand,  generally  with 
good  results.  Of  course,  sueh  a  mixture  is  isofter  than  either 
mutton  or  beef  fat  alone. 

If  the  harder  fats  are  used  for  shortening,  they  raust  be  kept 
in  a  warm  plaee  for  some  time  before  tbey  are  used,  in  order 
that  thej-^  may  become  soft;  otherwise,  extra  time  and  strength 
are  expended  in  order  to  work  them  into  the  flour  for  biscuits 
and  pastry  and  to  cream  the  shortening  and  sugar  for  cake. 
Under  any  circ  urn  stances,  it  seeras  a  little  more  difficult  to  work 
them  into  the  flour  than  is  the  case  with  butter.  In  ginger 
cookies  and  gingerbread,  where  the  shortening  is  melted  before 
it  is  added,  this  tiifBeulty  is  not  apparent. 

If  other  fats  are  substituteti  for  butter,  salt  must  be  added  to 
take  the  place  of  the  salt  in  the  butter. 

Midion  fat. 

Mutton  fat  combined  with  the  softer  fata  is  most  satisfactoiy 
for  all  kinds  of  l>iscuits,  muffins,  and  cakes  that  are  to  be  served 
hot,  or  at  least  on  the  same  flay  on  which  they  are  baked. 
The  '* furry**  feeling  in  the  mouth  that  comes  from  eating 
hard  fats  is  less  notieeat>k^  if  the  (iroducts  aro  eaten  with  hot 
drinks  or  fruit  sauees.  Lemon  juice  added  for  part  of  the  li<iuid 
in  cakes  also  lessens  this  '* furry"  feeling. 

Mutton  fat  is  excellent  in  all  cases  in  which  a  small  amount 
of  shortening  is  used  ant  I  when  spices  and  mokusses  Ir'Iji  (o 
niiisk  the  mutton  flavor.  In  cakes  made  with  mutton  fat, 
vanilla  and  chocolate  are  Buccesfiful  flavoi's.    Cakes  do  not  havQ 


d 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKISG 

so  fine  a  ju;ram  and  do  not  keep  so  well  when  t  hey  are  made  wiib 
mutton  fat  as  when  they  are  niade  with  butter. 

Certainly  nuitton  fat  can  be  titihzed  to  a  preator  extent  tliAQ 

18  generally  tboup;lit.  If  handled  skillfully  in  the  preparai 
the  product*?  are  not  only  satisfactory  but  excellent. 
Tests  for  the  use  of  mutton  fat  gave  the  following  results 
*'  It  would  make  for  ec*onomy  if  mutton  fat  were  more 
monly  used  in  the  kitchen.  For  this  reason,  te^sts  were  made  of 
difTerent  ways  of  nKxlifying  the  flavor  so  that  the  mutton  fai, 
might  be  more  generally  used  in  cooking.  The  most  satisfy 
tor>^  method  foimd  was  to  nnx  some  leaf  lard  wnth  the  suet  ani 
render  with  milk*  The  sunt  and  leaf  lard  mixture  was  fin* 
divided  l*y  passing  it  ihrougli  a  meat  grinder,  and  Wfis  hentod  in 
a  double  toiler  with  almut  one-half  of  its  weight  of  whole  mlLk, 
The  fat  was  quickly  released  from  the  tissues,  and,  when  &] 
lowed  to  cool,  formed  a  cake  on  the  surface  of  the  liquid,  whirl 
wiis  easily  removed.  Mutton  suet  and  leaf  lard,  fresli  nnd 
good  quality,  'tried  out'  in  this  way,  posscsseil  little,  if  any, 
of  the  charact eristic  mutton  odor  antl  flavor.  The  best  results 
were  obtaine<l  with  a  mixture  of  two  parts  of  mutton  suet  and 
one  of  leaf  lard,  finely  ground,  rendered  with  whole  milk  in  pro- 
portion of  ono-half  pint  to  two  pounds  of  the  mbcetl  mutton  and 
lard.  This  fat  had  an  exceptionally  good  odor  and  flavor,  which 
it  retained  when  kept  for  weeks  in  an  ordinary  refrigerator. 
It  w^as  also  of  gmxl  color  and  texture,  being  softer  than  the  mut 
ton  fat  alone,  owing  to  the  milk  fat  and  lard  which  it  contait»e<K 
If  such  fats  are  rendered  in  an  open  kettle,  a  inoiieratc  hea 
is  desirable,  since  they  'bum  out '  very  readily.  Rendering  in 
double  boiler  is  much  more  convenient.  In  numerous  test 
such  fat  proved  satisfactory  either  alone  or  with  a  little  but 
for  use  in  cooking  vegetables  and  for  other  purposes." 

Clarified  fat 

Various  methods  are  used  to  clarify  fat.    A  pinch  of  bakinit^ 
80<la  whitens  the  fat  and  also  helps  to  keep  it  swt^t.    Baking 

*  LttogwortUy,  C.  F.,  mid  Hunt,  Curoline  L.    Mutton  and  its  Value  im 
tbr  Dirt.    Farmers'  Bull  52C,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agr, 


?  of 
fa|_ 

b 
Uc. 

::| 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


523 


80(la  is  used  to  wluteii  lard  in  the  proportion  of  about  IH  ounces 
to  100  pounds  of  lard.  It  is  stirred  into  the  hot  lard  after  the 
crai'klinj^s  are  strained  out. 

The  following  direi'tiona  may  be  founti  useful  in  clarifying  fat:* 
''Excepting  when  the  purpose  of  clarif>ing  fat  is  to  remove 
flavors,  a  good  melhod  to  follow  is  to  pour  boiling  water  over  the 
fat,  to  l>oil  tiiorougldy,  and  then  to  set  it  away  to  cool.  The 
cold  fat  may  be  removed  in  a  solid  cake  antl  any  impurities 
clinging  to  it  may  be  scraped  off,  as  they  will  l>e  found  at  the 
bottom  of  the  layer.  By  repeating  this  process  two  or  three 
times  a  cake  of  clean,  white  fat  may  be  ol>tained/' 

"A  slight  burned  taste  or  similar  objectionable  flavors  often 
can  be  removed  from  fat  by  means  of  potatoes.  After  melting 
the  fat,  put  into  it  thick  shces  of  raw  potatoes;  heat  gradually. 
When  the  fat  ceases  to  bubble  and  the  potatoes  are  brown ^ 
strain  through  a  cloth  placed  in  a  wire  strainer/' 

Savory  fat,1i 

"Savory  fat  may  be  easily  prepared*  For  each  pound  of  the 
carefully  rendered  mutton  fat,  allow  an  onion,  a  sour  apple, 
and  a  teaspoon ful  of  ground  thyme  or  mixed  herbs  tied  up  in  a 
small  piece  of  cloth.  Cook  these  in  the  fat,  at  a  low  temperature 
in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove,  until  the  onion  and  apple 
are  thoroughly  Ijrowned.  Then  strain  off  the  fat,  which  will  be 
found  wefl  seasoned  and  may  be  used  in  place  of  butter  or  other 
savorj^  fat  for  seasoning  or  for  warming  of  potatoes^  cooking 
vegetables,  and  in  other  ways.  Winter  or  Hubbard  squash 
cooked  in  the  mutton  fat  until  it  is  brown  was  also  found  in  this 
laboratory  to  impart  a  savory  flavor.  The  savoriness  produced 
by  the  use  of  fruits  and  vegetables  in  this  way  seems  to  be  due 
to  the  solution  in  the  fat  of  specific  flavoring  boclies  present  in 
the  fruits,  vegetables,  or  herlis,  and  to  the  fat  taking  up  some 
of  the  caramelized  carbohydrate  formed  when  the  fruit  or  vege- 
table browns." 

*  Langworthy,  C,  P.,  and  Hunt,  CaroHne  L.    Economical  Uae  of  Meat 
in  the  Home.    Farmers*  Bull.  391,  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr, 
t  Farmers'  Bull,  52(3. 


524 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


CHICKENS  AND   FOWLS  (FRANCES   VINTON  WARD) 

Chickens  have  soft,  snim>th   lejajs  and   feet,  a  soft   flaxihl 
lin^iiHt  l>oiit*,  pin  feathers,  few  hairs,  a  tender  ^kin,  ami  lliey 
k'an. 

Fowls  have  hard  scaly  feet,  a  hard  breast  lK>ne,  long  haire, 
a  tough,  thick  skin,  and  the  intestines  are  surrouiideti  by  fat* 

Dressing  and  cleaning  poultry. 

Poultry'  must  be  prepared  for  cooking  by  careful  clc 
and  dressing.    The  following  directions  may  be  carried  out; 

Pick  out  all  8tmy  pin  fenthers.  Singe  tlie  bird  by  holding  it  over 
flume  yntil  the?  haira  are  burned  off.  Slip  the  point  of  the  win|j;s  bfhi 
the  shoulder  bhidf^,  to  p^vty  steadiness  to  the  body  while  working  with  l 
Cut  off  thf*  head,  push  hack  tht!  skin,  and  cut  the  neck  elasr*  to  the  Ijody. 
Through  thf^  niH'k  openings  loosien  the  crop  from  the  «kin  which  amrcHiiiiii 
it.  If  the  tToy>  is  full,  lift  it  and  cut  the  tube  connecting  it  with  the  gi^ 
zanl,  reuchinK  down  betwt^^n  the  brea*<t  bones  as  far  fis  possible.  An  empty 
crop,  loosencfl  from  the  brt^ast  ekin,  uiiiy  be  dniwn  out  with  the  intestin€)i» 
If  dressing  a  f^wl,  cut  a  lengthwii^e  slit  alxjut  one  inch  lon|<  in  the  skin  of 
the  leg  juRt  Ik*1ow  the  leg  joint,  IiLsert  a.  skewer,  and  pick  up  the  white 
tendons,  one  at  a  time,  pulling  each  away  from  the  hip  toward  the  foot 
until  it  breaks  loose.  When  all  are  loortencni,  cut  around  the  leg  throu^ 
the  skin  juiit  below  the  joint,  bend  the  joint  ba<^kvvard  tilt  it  breakj»,  and 
cut  through  the  cords  to  remove  the  leg.  Cut  a  lengthwise  slit  thrmi^ 
the  skin  and  fat  at  the  rear  just  below  the  breiwl  bone  and  toi»*ard  the 
vent.  Cut  aniund  the  vent.  With  the  fowl  lying  on  its  Imck,  insert  tht 
hand  in  this  opc^ning,  pacing  it  over  the  intestines,  l>etween  them  oxid 
the  breafit  lione.  Press  the  liand  forward  until  the  heart  can  be  felt, 
cur\*ing  the  fingers  around  the  internal  organs  including  the  heart;  pull 
strongly,  holding  the  fowl  in  pbce  with  the  other  hand,  until  the  orgmifl 
are  drawn  out.  Slip  the  heart  from  ita  Back,  and  cut  it  free  from  it«  bkiod 
VGBiclfl.  Cut  the  intestine  close  to  the  gizzard.  Cut  acroAi)  the  white 
tendon  on  one  side  of  this,  being  very  careful  not  to  cut  tlie  inner  lining, 
and  turn  the  outer  niuiicular  ami  inside  out,  away  from  the  inner  coat  wUh 
its  contents  intact.  With  a  sharp  knife  jx!el  off  the  interlining,  and  cut 
away  the  outer  tendons.  Cut  away  the  hver  in  two  lobes,  discarding  tine 
part  discH)lored  by  the  gall  bladder.  Be  careful  not  to  cut  the  Utter. 
Should  this  occur,  every  part  of  tht*  m(*M  which  has  Ijeen  touched  by  it 
must  l>e  cut  away,  after  carefully  washing  the  knife  wliich  cut  it.  The 
bitter  ta^te  is  very  persistent.  Find  the  lungs,  attachtsl  to  the  ribs  on  the 
upi>er  Mc  of  the  body  near  the  hi>acl,  and  remove  them  carefully*  A  aiuall 
amaunl  left  will  cause  disioloratiou  and  give  an  unpleasant  davcxr.    B9» 


\ 
I 


L 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY  525 

move  the  very  dark  glands  lying  in  hollows  rlose  to  the  backbone  near 
the  tail.    Wipe  the  bird  thoroughly,  inside  and  out. 

Cooking  pmtUry, 

Chicken  may  be  stuffed  and  roasted,  but  fowl  should  be 
stewed  slowly  for  a  long  time,  preferably  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

To  roaifl  chicken. — Make  ii  siuffinpt  of  driod  l>r<*»dcrartibs»  moistened 
with  as  miit^h  milk  as  it  will  absorb  and  sejisoncd  an  dt^ired  with  I  table- 
spoon of  butter,  }/i  teaspcwn  of  ^ilt,  a  little  pepper,  and  saj;e  or  poultry 
seasoning  to  each  cup  of  crumbs.  Fill  the  crop  region  alwut  two-thirda 
full  J  and  tic  the  end  of  the  akin  of  the  neck.  Fill  the  body  region  about 
twfj-thirda  full,  und  fiisteu  the  opening  liy  stickiug  tooth  picks  across  it 
through  both  flaps  of  the  nkin,  then  lacing  ntring  across  the  tooth  picks, 
IiLsert  two  long  Hkowers  through  the  chicken^  one  just  l>rneath  tlie  legi?, 
the  other  through  the  wings  (dow  released  from  their  position  l>ehind  the 
shoulder  blrules)  and  the  breast.  Tie  the  legs  together^  and  draw  them 
down  by  means  of  the  string  to  the  tail,  continuing  the  string  to  fasten 
around  the  skewers  and  the  legs.  Cross  the  strings  over  the  t^aek^  and 
wind  them  around  the  skewers  under  the  wings,  tying  them  together  over 
the  back.  Note  that  there  is  no  string  across  the  tjre;ist,  and  a  fowl  served 
breast  side  up,  with  the  string  removi'd,  shosvs  no  murk  of  the  string. 
Place  the  chicken  in  a  covered  roasting  pan  with  a  little  water  in  the  hot- 
torn.  If  the  chicken  is  not  very  fat,  butter  or  oil  the  skin,  sprinkle  it  with 
siilt,  pepper,  and  flour,  and  l>ake  it  from  1  to  1  }4  hours  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven.  Wash  the  bre^ist,  gizzard,  neck,  and  liver.  Stew  them  in.  suffi* 
cient  water  to  cover  them,  adding  the  liver  after  cooking  tlic  others  an 
hour. 

To  ntem  chicken.— If  chicken  ig  to  be  cut  up  before  being  cfKjke<l,  as  in 
stewing,  the  dressing  Is  much  simplified.  After  cutting  the  lengthwise 
sht  into  the  abdominal  wivity;  bi'ud  out  the  leg  and  cut  the  skin  between 
it  and  the  liody,  following  the  outline  of  the  thigh  up  to  the  hip  bone. 
The  leg  will  separate  from  the  body  and  when  Lient  far  enough  hack,  th»y 
hip  joint  will  break  and  the  leg  may  Ix?  cut  free.  When  both  leg;s  have 
l>ecn  removtxlj  hiy  tliem  akin  down  and  feel  for  the  joint  brtwe<>n  the  thigh 
and  ^'drum  stic|i.**  Cut  across  this  through  the  tendon  and  break  the 
joint,  separating  the  two  parts  by  cutting  through  the  flesh.  Cut  from  the 
mid  point  of  the  slit  in  the  abdomen  through  the  thin  muscle  whit'h  under* 
lay  the  hip  straight  to  the  hip  joint.  Bend  back  the  back  of  the  chicken, 
breaking  the  liackbone  near  this  jxiint.  The  organs  may  now  easily  be 
renio%'e<J  a.^  lief  ore.  Lift  the  wing,  and  cut  from  the  under  side  up,  dis- 
locating the  hone  to  find  f  he  joint.  Note  the  ciirtdaginous  joints*  in  the 
ribe  at  eat*h  side,  and  cut  tti rough  these  regions  to  the  shoulder,  to  sep>arate 
the  back  from  the  breast,  dislocating  the  shoulder  blade  from  the  breast 
bone  at  the  forward  end  and  cutting  the  two  apart.     Remove  the  lungd 


I 


I 


L 


d 


526 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKISG 


J 


and  glfiJidA,    Wipe  the  fowl  as  before.    Cook  the  gibleU  sepamtely.    Add 

enough  boUing  water  just  to  cover  the  fowl,  siinincr  it  15  tniniita»,  ttdd  I 
tablespoon  of  salt,  and  place  it  in  a  firelesss  cooW  for  5  or  6  hours.  Eiw 
move  it  aad  if  not  yet  t^'nder,  rc*hcat  it  aud  cotik  it  again.  To  serve  meat 
cooked  in  this  way,  thicken  the  gravy  and  make  dunipliogg,  &erviiig  the 
meat  in  the  gravy;  or  remove  the  meat,  aaut^  it,  and  eerve  the  thickened 
p-avy  separately.  The  meat  may  be  removed  from  the  boci«^  jitid  ddn 
aod  ground.  The  liquor  may  be  nlcared*  well  reasoned,  and  thickened 
with  gelatin,  using  1  tablespoon  of  gelatin  to  1  pint  of  Uquor.  Htir  in  Ibe 
meat  aa  the  gelatin  begins  to  thicken,  and  serve  it  in  aUces,  i3old» 


^ 


CHAPTER  XXVII 


FISH  AlfD*  OYSTERS 
By  Winifred  Moses 


Fish  is  an  excellent  animal  food.  Many  kinds  of  sea  fish 
that  have  heretofore  not  l>een  used  are,  through  the  efforts  of 
the  United  Btates  Bureau  of  Fisheries,  coming  into  the  markets. 
This  is  an  economic  pohcy,  since  lish  is  one  tiiiimal  food  in  tiie 
production  of  wliich  food  that  miglit  otlierwise  be  used  for 
human  beings  is  not  neetled.  Facilities  for  packing  and  shipping 
fish  have  been  &t>  improved  within  the  last  few  years  that  it  is 
now  possible  for  almost  all  iidand  conuiiunitics  to  obtain  good 
sea  fish,  Borne  kind  of  fresh  water  fish  is  almost  always  avail- 
able inland. 

FISH 

Fkh  may  be  divided  into  two  classes  according  to  the 
amount  of  fat  contained  in  their  fiesh ;  (1)  white  fish,  or  fish  with 
flesh  that  contains  little  oil,  the  fat  being  secreted  in  the  liver 
— to  thin  class  belong  cotl,  haddock,  halibut,  turbot,  flounder, 
trout,  whitefishj  smelts,  perch;  (2)  oily  fish,  or  fish  in  which 
the  fat  is  distributtHl  throughout  the  flesh — to  this  class  l>eIong 
salmon^  eels,  mackerel,  bluefish,  sm'ordfish,  shad,  herring,  cusk. 


I 


Sekctimi  and  care  offish 
The  freshness  of  fish  may  be  determined  as  foUaws:  (1)  Tlie 
flesh  should  be  firm ;  (2)  the  eyes  should  l)e  bright  and  bulging ; 
(S)  the  gills  sliould  l>e  red;  (4)  when  plac<?fl  in  fresh  water  the 
fish  should  sink,  not  float. 

To  care  for  fish  properly*  it  should  l)e  cleaneil  and  drawn  im- 
mediately, wiped  dry,  and  kept  on  ice  with  the  skin  down, 
avoiding  contact  with  other  foods.    Frozen  fish  may  be  thawed 

527 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


}jy  piacirij;;  it  in  coki  water, 
ill  cold  water,  skin  side  up. 


Salt  fish  should  always  be  aoaked 


Preparation  of  fii^hjor  cocking 

To  prepare  a  fish  for  cooking  it  muat  be  cleaned,  skinned  ; 
honed. 

To  clean  a  fish  the  seales  should  he  removed  by  scraping  the 
fish  from  the  tail  to  the  head  with  a  small  sharp  knife,  and  the 
fins  removed  by  making  an  iiieision  as  elose  as  possible  to  each 
side  of  the  fin.  The  tail  should  then  l>e  cut  off.  If  the  fiafa  is  to 
he  hakefl»  the  head  and  tail  are  left  on,  but  the  eyes  removed. 
The  body  is  opened  hy  eutting  from  the  gills  along  the  front  Uy 
the  tail,  the  entrails  removed,  the  inside  eleuned,  seraped»  and 
washed  out  with  t'oltl  water^  and  the  fish  then  w^iiied  dry. 

To  skin  a  fish  the  fins  should  ite  removed  and  the  skin  slit 
along  the  bank  and  around  the  head  and  tail.  The  hand  should 
l3e  dipped  in  salt  to  keep  it  from  slipping.  The  skin  is  then  looe- 
enefl  below  the  head  and  drawn  from  the  head  down  to  the  tail 
on  one  side  of  the  l)mly  and  then  drawn  from  the  other  side  of 
the  t>ody. 

To  bone  a  fish  it  should  first  be  cleaned  and  skinned  ba  di- 
rected. One  should  then  lieghi  at  the  tail  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
under  the  flesh  close  to  the  backbone  follow  the  bone  its  entire 
length,  making  as  clean  a  cut  as  possible.  This  removes  the 
fle,sh  from  one  side  of  the  fish.  The  fish  may  then  l»e  turned  and 
the  fU*sh  removed  from  the  other  aide,  and  any  small  bones  that 
rf*main  may  be  picked  out. 

Methods  of  cooking  fish 

To  boit  muUl  whole  JUh:  (1)  Clean  the  fish,  leaving  the  head,  tail,  and  fiiw, 
but  removing  the  i»yi»«;  (2)  wcnuth  it;  (3)  plmt»  it  on  a  rack  in  ft  fish  kettlci 
or  coil  it  in  a  frying  baftkct,  and  pkce  it  in  an  iron  kettle;  (4)  eovpr  it  with 
irarm  water  (Bailing  water  eaiises  the  flesh  to  contract  and  eraek;  c?«oid 
wfttex  dniws  out  the  juiees.  Salmon,  however,  must  Ije  plunKi*d  in  botlinn 
water  to  preserve  the  eolor);  (5)  for  each  2  quartj^  of  water  ntid  1  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  1  table?<poon  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice;  (6)  bring  the  wnier 
quickly  to  the  boihng  point;  (7)  mmnier  the  fish  until  it  is  done,  uUowing 
from  5  to  8  minutes  to  the  pound  according  to  tiie  thicknoss  of  tht  f 


FISH  AND  OYSTEHS 


529 


Of  GObk  it  until  th(»  flenH  will  8Pparate  from  the  lionps;  (S)  drain  it;  (9)  rt>- 
move  it  to  a  folded  napkin  on  a  hot  platter;  (10)  garnish  it  with  parsley 
and  lemon. 

To  boil  piec£S  oj  fmh  cut  Jmm  a  largr  fitth:  (1)  Clean  thi*  fish;  (2)  wrap  it 
in  a  piece  of  cheeie-clolh  and  tie  it;  t3)  i>roc(^  as  in  l>fnhnj5  whuk-  fi.sh. 

Cimrt  houiUon  is  used  for  boihng  fresh  water  !isti  I  hat  have  httle  flavor. 
Brown  in  1  tablespoon  of  fat>  1  ehopped  eiirrot,  1  ehopptxl  onion,  1  stalk 
of  eelery;  add  2  quarts  of  hot  w^ater,  1  cup  vinegar,  3  i>eppercQrns,  3  cloves, 
1  bay  leaf,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  any  fish  trimmings;  strain  the  liquid  before 
putting  the  fish  into  it. 

TABLE  XXXrV. — Fiae  that  may  he  Boiled,  and  Saoces,  GaUnishrh, 

AND   VEaKTABLES  SUITABLE   FOK   EacH 


Fuh 

Sauce 

Gwmuh 

Fe^^e^^ 

Haddock,.  .  .  . 

Egi 

Parsley,  creas 

Potato  balls 

Salmon 

Tartar 

Cress 

Asfjaragus,  carrr»ti! 

HoUandaise 

Lemon 

French  beans               , 

Egg 

Parsley 

Rice                             ^ 

Halibut 

B6chamel 

Crc«s 

Potato  cnx^uettea 

Hollandaise 

Parsley 

Toniatoen,  grt^n  aalad 

Cod. 

Butter 

Mashed  potatoes 

Caper 

Carrots 

Shrimp 

Turnips 

Oyster 

Beets,  greens 

Mackerel,  _  . . 

Caper              , 
Parf^ley 

Flounder, .  .  .  . 

B^haind 

Chopped  parsley 

Carmts,  turnips 

Trout 

Horse-radish 

Siile 

B^hamel 

Carrots,  spinaeh 

Bokedfiah. 

To  hake  whole  drit  fish:  (1)  Clean  the  fi«h.  leaving  the  head  and  t^iil  on, 
bnt  removitig  the  eyes;  (2J  stufT  the  fish  with  any  fish  stuffing  desired; 
(3)  sew  up  the  fish;  (4)  plaee  the  fi^h  on  a  gretised  rack  or  fish  sheet  in  a 
fish  pan  or  if  these  are  not  obtainable,  plaee  buttered  fltri|>8  of  cheese-eloth 
under  the  fish^  by  means  of  w^hich  the  fish  may  be  lifted  from  the  pan  with- 
out being  broken;  (5)  truss  the  fish  in  the  Hha|>e  tif  the  letter  8,  doing 
this  by  ft  means  of  a  long  skewer  thrust  through  it  from  head  to  tail; 
(ti)  out  three  gashes  on  each  side  of  the  fish;  (7)  insert  a  thin  f*!ice  of  salt 
pork  in  each  gash;  (8)  dust  the  fiwh  with  salt  and  pepper;  (9)  sprinkle  it 
with  flour;  (10)  put  it  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  it,  allowing  15  minittcs  for 
each  jjound;  (11)  baste  it  frequently;  (12J  remove  the  fish  to  a  hot  platter; 
(13)  remove  the  slices  of  pork;  (14)  fill  the  gashes  with  parsley;  (15)  gar- 


530 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


iiiah  the  fish  with  lemon;  (lli)  strain  the  fat  to  be  used  as  a  fouadatioQ  for 
wiucr. 

To  hake  Jot  ji»h:  l'rt>c«tHl  iis  for  dry  fish^  but  omit  the  \yotk, 

TABLl*]  XXXV.— Fish    that    may    be    Baked    Whoi.e,    and    SAt»c 

GaRXIBJIKS,    and    V'E0ETAULE8   tSuiTABLE    FtfR    EaCM 


FUh 

5auoc 

Ganii^h 

Veifet4ible 

Haddock 

DrawTi  butter 

Lemon 

Mashed  poUtoQA 

Egg 

Parsley 

s 

HoUandaiae 

■ 

BluefiBb 

Shrimp 

Potato  bsdl 
LiTnon 
Parsl(?y 
Cucumber 

1 

CJod,, , , 

Oyster 

■ 

Macket^l  ..,..,..,.* 

Lemon  juire 

LfiTion 
Tomatoe?* 

( 

Shad 

Ma^heil  potatooT 

Lemun 

Seabass 

Tonmt« 

Parsloy 

TimuitoeB          J 

Tilefiah 

Maltro  d'bot^4 

Parsley 

1 

Weak  fish... 

Ijemon  juioe 

^ 

To  bake  culUU  and  fiikUt  (1)  Wipe  the  lish  dry;  (2)  dii*t  it  with  salt 
and  pepper;  (3)  season  it  with  lenian  juire,  if  desired;  (4)  sprinkle  it  vrixh 
bits  of  butter;  (5)  add  J*i  cup  of  water  or  other  liquid;  (6)  plare  the  fish  in 
a  hot  oven  allowiriji;  from  5  to  8  minutea  for  eac^h  pouod,  according  to  iImp 
thickness  of  the  fish. 

TABLE  XXXVL— Fish  that  may  be  Baked  in  Steaks,  Ctrruym,  ok 
Fiu^rrs,  with  Sauces,  Garnibhes  and  Vbgetables  Buitajilr  mn 

EACH 


I 


Euh 


Halibut. 


Haddock. 
Balmijn . . 


Fkrunder   .  _ 

Cuak 

Horse  niackerd . 
Tile 


Satict 


HoUandaise 

Tomato 
Brown 
0>'at<»r 
Bemaisc 

Be-rcy 

Lonon  juice 
Lemon  juice 
Tomato 


Garnish 


Purdeof  peiia 

Tomatoes 

Oysters 

Lemon 

Parrioy 

Shrimps 

Sifted  egg  yolk 


Ve^feiable* 


Potato  balk 


Onions 


Green  pena^  ] 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


531 


BwUed  fish. 

To  hroilfish  ivhole:  ft)  Cloan  the  (ish;  (2)  split  Iar(a;e  fiah  down  itio  twiclc, 
but  do  not  sptit  small  fish;  (3)  if  desired,  remove  the  heiid  and  the  tail; 

(4)  brush  the  fish  with  melted  butter  or  oil  sefLsonod  with  stilt  and  pepper; 

(5)  plare  the  fish,  flesh  side  down  on  a  well-ja:re4ksefJ  tiroiler;  ((i)  ccKjk  it  for 
from  10  to  20  minutes  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  fish,  luminff  it  nften; 
(7)  if  the  fish  is  thick,  place  the  dripping  pan  under  the  hroiler,  and  bastx? 
the  fiah  with  butter  oneti  or  twice  during  the  cooking  and  finish  the  cooking 
in  the  oven ;  (8)  carefully  separate  the  fish  from  the  liroiler,  and  slide  it  on 
to  a  hot  platter;  (9)  spread  it  v^ith  mattre  dlidtel  butter. 

To  br&U  slices  of  Jbih:  (1)  Cut  thf^  fish  into  slie(?i*  1  inch  thick;  (2)  wipe 
it  dry;  (3)  season  itj  and  proceed  as  in  the  caae  of  broiled  whole  Esb. 

TABLE  XXXVIL — ^Fise  that  may  be  Broiled,  w^ith  Sauceb,  Car- 

NlftHES,  AND   VeQZTABIMB   BtTITABLE    FOR   EACH 


Fish 

Sau€€ 

Garniah 

Vegetuhiejf 

Cuak 

Blueash........ 

Horse  mackerel. 

Trout 

Lenum 

French  fried  po- 
tatoes 

Cod 

Melted  butter 

Parsley,  lemon 

Boiled    potatoes, 

Tomato 

carrots,  green 
peas,  beans, 
beets,    spinach 

Halibut 

Butter 

Parsley 

Peaa^  beans, 
beets,      spinach 

Tile  fah 

Mackerel 

Maitrc  d'hotd 

Lemon,  cucumber 

Mashed  potato 

Scrcxl 

Shiui 

Mattre  d'botel 

Radishes,  paisley 

Duchess  potato 

Smelts 

B^^hamel 

J 

Swonl  fish ,  , 

1  Cueymber, 
hor84vra^iLsh 

Shad  roe 

Mattre  d'hot<H 

Lemon  quarters 

J 

Pompano .  .  . 

Fricafisee  of 

1 

clams 

Potato                ^ 

Smdiflfij(k. 

TomHiifu%h  akaka:  (1)  Clean  r he  .steaks;  (2)  wiiM»  them  dry;  (3)  season 
them  with  j>t:'pt>fT  nnd  stdt;  (4)  dip  tbetn  in  granulat^xl  eormneal;  (ii)  try 
out  slioes  of  salt  pork;  (0)  remove  tht*  senilis  of  pork;  (7)  saut^  the  steiiks 
in  the  fat,  until  they  are  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides* 


532  .1  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

Fried  fi^. 

To  fry  wmaH  wMt  fiMh  afid  filUU  ofJUh:  (1)  dcAii  the  fish;  (2)  WMh  H; 
(3|  dry  it;  (4)  shuoo  it  with  pe^jpej-  nod  ealt;  (5)  roU  tt  tn  flour;  (6)  mfl 
it  in  egg;  (7j  roll  it  in  brniuicrumlis;  (8)  put  in  a  fiyiog  basket;  (9)  dip  if 
in  deep  hot  fat  (175"  C),  and  cook  it  for  &)  seconds  or  imtH  tlie  Mi  is  a 
dHic^t^  lirown  color;  (10)  drain  it;  (11)  remove  it  to  soft  paper  for  liirtlier 
draimng;  (12)  serve  it  on  a  folded  napkin. 


CNlUl 


Cannrtg  JUh 
To  carve  a  baked  or  t)oiled  fifih,  a  silver  knife  and  fork  should' 
Ik*  u«ofl.  The  head  of  the  fLsh  should  first  t)e  removal  and  then 
the  length  of  the  back  cut  down  as  close  as  passible  to  the  bonat 
the  nearer  half  of  the  fish  being  cut  in  thick  slices.  When  aU  the 
flesli  18  removed  from  one  side,  the  platter  or  the  fish  shotild  be 
turned  and  the  flesh  removed  from  the  other  side, 

OT8TERS 

Oy»ters  arc  among  the  most  commonly  used  of  the  sheD 
fifth.  The  hivalvcft^  including  oysters,  mussels,  clams,  and  scal- 
lops, liave  white  flesh  and  are  easily  digested*  The  cnistaceaafly 
inehifliti^  lolisters,  crabs,  and  shrimps,  have  re<l  flesh  and  are 
uion*  difiieylt  to  digest  than  are  the  fi.sh  of  white  flesh. 

Oysters  are  in  season  from  September  to  Ms^y.  They  ait! 
wholesome  Init  not  so  palatalile  during  the  other  months.  AV* 
thoygli  (lysters  are  not  ver>^  nxitritious,  they  have  a  place  in  the 
diet  since  they  serve  as  appetizers.  The  tough  muscle  and  gilla 
are  not  iis  easily  digested  as  the  remainder  of  the  Ixnly.  When 
these  are  removed,  as  they  often  are  before  cookings  the  oyster 
is  said  to  l)e  l>ear€led. 


Selection  and  preparaiion  of  oy«ters 
Only  fresh  oysters  should  l)e  selected.    Oysters  are  now 
ported  in  containers  surrounded  by  ice.     Preservatives  are 
used.    Wlu'U  |KKssibh%  oysters  should  be  bought  in  the  shell 

To  open  an  oyster  shell  one  should  first  wash  the  shells  thcir- 
oughly  with  u  ImusIi  aitd  pl(*nt3'  *if  wahT.  A  thin  fiat  knife 
may  tlien  be  pushed  under  tlie  uppt^r  valvc^  th**  musette  thai 
holds  if  lit  the  shel]  cut,  and  the  upper  shell  or  valve,  raiaod  aiul 
lifted  off. 


i 


I 


M 

re  nolH 

d 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


53? 


To  clean  the  oysters  after  they  have  l^een  opened,  they  should 
be  placed  in  a  colaiirler,  the  colander  placed  over  a  bowl  and 
coltl  water  poured  over  the  oysters,  using  32  ''^P  ^^  water  to  1 
quart  of  oysters.  Esch  oyster  should  be  examined  carefully, 
and  any  bits  of  shell  removeiL  The  hquor  is  then  poui'ed  off 
carefully,  and  reserved  for  use  in  sauces. 

Methods  of  serving  oysters 
Oysters  may  be  serv^ed  either  raw  or  eooketL  When  raw  they 
are  served  generally  on  the  half  shell,  in  cocktails,  or  with 
vinegar  sauce.  When  eookwl,  they  may  be  roa^sted,  panned, 
broiled,  sauted,  fried,  served  in  sauces,  scalloped,  served  in 
stews,  in  pastry  cups^  in  croustades,  or  bread  cases. 

To  serve  opaters  on  the  half  shell. 

(I)  Use  small  varieties*  such  as  blue  points j  (2)  sprve  the  osrst^^re  raw 
only  when  they  are  perfectly  fresh;  {.'i)  o|M?ti  the  oysters;  (4)  eloari  them; 
(J>)  chill  them;  (G)  arrange  a  h(*d  of  craeketl  ice  on  each  plate;  (7)  arrange 
friHu  four  to  six  of  the  deeper  valves  on  this  ice  ImxI  having  the  valve  j^ide 
toward  the  center  c>f  the  plate;  (8)  place  a  chilled  oyster  on  each  shell; 
(9)  in  the  center  of  the  plate,  place  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  on  a  sprig  of  pars- 
ley; (10)  serve  the  oysters  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  horse-radish,  taliaaoOj 
Biiyce,  or  tomato  catsup. 

Oyster  cocklail. 

(1)  Clean  and  chill  oysterSp  allowing  five  oysters  for  each  person  to  be 
served;  (2)  use  tomato  catsup  or  mix  the  following  ingredients  for  sauce 
(to  serve  twelve  persons) : 


5  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
3  tablespoons  tomato  catsup 
1  %  teaspoon  salt 


1  tablespoon  horse-radish 
J4  teaspoon  tabasco 

2  tablespoons  vinegar 

3  tJiblespoons  Worcestershire* 

(3)  Place  five  oysters  in  a  sherbet  cup  or  sherry  glass;  grapefruit  shells, 
lemon  shells,  tomato  cuimj,  green  j>epper  cups,  or  cufis  of  tomato  jelly  set 
in  beds  of  ice  may  be  used  instefMi  of  Bherbet  cups;  (4)  add  I  tablespoon  of 
the  sauce. 

Cooking  of  oysters, 

(1)  Oysters  require  very  little  e^>okjng;  (2)  put  tliem  over  the  fire  in 
their  own  Uquor;  (3)  remove  them  as  Sroon  as  they  are  plump,  or  the  gills 
bc»coine  curled,  for  longer  cooking  makes  them  though;  (4)  cracker  cruinl>8 
are  better  than  breadcrumbs  ff)r  mixing  with  oysters. 


CHAPTER  XXViri 


EGGS 
By  Winifred  Moses 


Eggs  are  one  of  the  best  meat  substitutes,  sinee  they  furnish 
animal  protein  and  are  easily  prepared  for  the  t^ble.    Aloreover,,— 
they  are  especially  valuable  in  the  diet  because  of  their  higd 
iron-content.     Methods  of  preparing  eggs  are  practically  un- 
liniitt^I  for  almost  any  coui'se  in  a  menu* 

In  keeping  eggs  and  in  using  them  economically,  the  followiug 
suggestions  may  be  useful: 

Eggs  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  dry  place;  they  should  always 
be  waslied  just  before  being  used;  left-over  egg-whites  shouldl 
l)e  kept  in  a  cool  place  in  a  coverc*<l  dish;  left-over  egg-yolks 
may  be  beaten  anct  kept  in  a  covered  dish;  left-over  eg;g-yolks 
may  he  dropped  whole  into  hot  water,  cooketl  until  they  are^ 
solid,  and  set  aside  to  serve  in  soup;  cooked  egg-yolk  may  befl 
rubbed  through  a  sieve  as  a  garnish  for  a  salad,  or  for  the  t43p     '^ 
of  a  dish  of  vvvtun  toast  or  of  meat  warmed  in  a  sauce;  the 
clean  sliells  from  uncooked  eggs  may  be  used  to  settle  coffee, 
or  to  aid  in  clarifying  fat  or  soups. 

All  egg  dishes  should  be  rinsed  with  cold  water  before  they 
are  washed.     Hot  water  hardens  albumen. 


tldl 
ksl 


TESTS  FOR  FRESH  EGGS 

The  following  tests  may  be  used  to  determine  whether 
are  fresh:   (1)  The  shell  of  a  fresh  egg  is  roughs  not  smooth  I 
and  shiny;  (2)  a  I'Ciisonably  fresh  egg  will  sink  in  salt  water 
made  by  dissolving  ^'^  cup  of  salt  in  1  quart  of  water  while  a' 
stale  egg  will  float;  (3)  when  an  egg  is  candled,  that  is,  held 
against  an  opening  in  a  shield  around  a  bright  light,  a  fresh , 
egg  will  appear  clear  inside  and  the  air  cell  will  not  be  larger] 

534 


mem 


EGOS 


635 


than  a  nickel;   (4)  a  fresh  egg  makes  no  sound  when  it  is 

shaken, 

EGG   CCM5KERY 

Be(ding  eggs. 

To  beat  well,  egp^s  shonlcl  be  cold  and  fresh.  A  few  grains 
of  salt  added  to  the  whites  may  hjisten  the  process.  In  pre- 
paring egg-white  for  beating,  one  should  be  careful  to  have  it 
free  from  every  partide  of  yolk-  If  a  close  texture  is  desired, 
the  Dover  egg-beater  should  be  usetl;  it  shoukl  re.st  lightly  on 
the  bottom  of  the  bowl  and  the  beating  should  be  slow  at 
first.  If  a  loose  texture  is  desired,  a  confectioner's  whisk 
should  be  used;  or,  for  a  still  looser  texture,  a  flat  egg-beater. 
Egg-whites  are  beaten  stiff  when  the  impression  made  by  the 
beater  is  retained;  they  are  beaten  dr>^  when  the  gloss  has  dis- 
appeared and  flaky  l>its  fiy  off  as  the  egg  is  beaten. 

For  ihickef}ing,^\Vhen  eggs  are  added  to  thicken  a  mixture, 
they  should  be  beaten  only  until  the  whites  and  the  yolk.s  are 
well  mixed,  or  until  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  can  be  taken  up 
and  held  in  the  spoon. 

For  leuvenimj. — When  eggs  are  adtled  to  insure  lightness, 
the  yolks  and  whites  should  bo  beaten  separately;  the  yolks 
tmtit  thick  and  lemon  colored,  and  the  whites  until  stiff,  that  is, 
until  the  dish  containing  the  l>eaten  egg  can  be  tipped  upside 
down  without  losing  the  egg  white. 

Eggn  cooked  in  the  shdl. 

(1)  Covrr  the  o^Ks  with  IwHlinjc  water,  and  cover  the  kettle;  (2)  remove 
the  kettle  from  clireet  heiit;  (li)  for  a  soft-cooked  egg,  allow  the  egg  to 
stand  in  the  hot  wnivt  for  4  to  7  minutes;  for  a  medium-cooked  egg,  7  to 
10  minutes;  for  a  hnrd-cooked  egg,  from  45  to  50  minutes. 

Poached  eggn. 

Methml  I:  (1)  Place  in  a  shallow  pun  as  many  muffin  rings  as  there  are 
eitgs  to  poaeh;  (2)  turn  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  the  riiign;  (3)  when 
the  wnter  hoiis  hreitk  an  egg  into  each  ring;  (4)  remove  the  pan  from  direct 
heat,  and  let  the  eggs  remain  in  the  water  until  the  whites  are  jetly-like  and 
tmnslurent  (from  10  to  15  minutes);  (5)  remove  the  eggs  in  the  rings  to  a 
serving  dish^  with  a  nkinitner  or  pancake  turner;  (6)  remove  the  muffin 
rinijs;  (7)  seosron  the  eggs  with  salt  and  pepper;  (8)  garnish  them  with 
parsley,  if  desired* 


636 


.1  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


MtthiHi  II:  (1)  Atlil  n  dush  of  suit  to  the  white  of  an  c«g;  (2)  lieat 
whit<'  to  u  froth;  (!))  put  ri  in  a  shiiUovv  dish  or  in  a  KbL»8;  (I)  dmp  iKo  tin 
hroki'ii  yolk  in  fht"  cvfitiTj  (5)  nrt  thr  dish  in  n  \\i\u  of  Innlini^  watrr;  (fij 
foviT  \\w  dish,  iiricj  It't  ih«'  nm?  nx»k  for  2  rTiintil*»s, 

McthfMl  in  (Fniicli  jjoacht**!  i%}£,-^t  us^hI  for  jciirmnhns) :  (I)  Kill  j*  dr 
saucepan  nearly  full  of  water;  (2)  iidd  1  tetij^fxion  of  stvit  and  I  talilei^fKMiQ 
of  vinegar  to  I  quart  of  wat^r;  (*^)  when  the  wat^^r  w  lioiliriK  violent lyj 
crack  the  shell  of  the  egg,  and  holding  it  riose  to  the  watcr»  drop  the  cfm 
k'ntsi  Cjuickly  where  the  water  iw  boiling  hardest;  (4)  when  the  egg  is  Itru 
remove  it  with  a  akimmer,  draining  off  the  w*ater 

Shirred  eggn. 

(1)  Butter  individual  baking  dishes;  (2)  break  an  egg  into  cnich  iIm 
(3)  sprinkle  salt  on  the  whites  but  not  on  Ihe  yolks;  (4)  plan*  the  dii^hcii  id 
a  shallow  pun  of  hot  wnter,  and  plaee  the  pun  on  the  shi»l!f  in  a  wlow  ttveii^ 
(5)  baste  the  yolkss  with  a  little  melted  butter^  while  they  are  cHiakiii| 
(tJ)  cixik  the  egga  until  the  white  is  set. 

YnHalionii:  (1)  Phiee  ehopped   i-tiirken,  ham»  mushrooms,  or  tomatil 
pur6e  in  the  iKjttom  of  the  tlish^  before  the  egg  is  nddtxl;  (2)  servt?  thr  < 
im  t^»a»t,  broiled  ham,  minced  meat,  or  stewed  kidneys;  (3)  pour  oviCT  ite ' 
top  cream,  B6ehaniel  or  tomato  sauce.    (See  Sauces^  page  552). 

FriiA  tggn, 

(I)  Place  a  little  fat  in  a  very  clean  frying  pan;  (2)  when  M  liubhl«^ 
crack  the  nhells,  and  drop  in  the  eggs;  (li)  cot)k  the  egg?»  at  a  mmliT^t^ 
temperature  until  the  white  ia  set.    If  hard-cooked  eggs  ar*';  dc«in^, 
th€!m  and  cook  them  on  the  other  aide. 

Scrambled  eggs. 

(1)  Beat  the  eggii  lightly  with  a  fork,  just  enough  to  break  them;  (2)  i 
4  eggs,  add  2  tableBpootu^  of  milk,  ]^i  teaspoon  <>f  salt,  and  a  daah  of  pi<^pcr^ 
(3)  put  H  tablesjxion  of  fat  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler;  (4)  turn  in  \\ 
egfss;  (5)  cook  them,  over  hot  water,  stirring  them  eonsiitantly  until  thfi 
begin  to  thicken;  (6)  remove  the  double  li*jiler  from  the  lire,  and  coittitiui 
to  stir  ihe  eggs  until  they  are  of  the  projier  consistency. 

Variations:  (I)  When  the  double  Ixiiler  is  removed  from  the  fire,  add  \ 
t€as|x>on  of  ehoppeii  imrsley,  or  a  Uttle  tc^mato  »auce  or  pulp,  or  miii 
rbieken,  ham,  bacon,  or  mushrootns;  (2)  garnish  the  eggB  with  croutoimj 
or  parsley. 

OmeleU. 

French  omelet:  (1)  Scour  the  omelet  pan  with  buH  and  vinegar,  i 
it;  (2)  just  t»efore  using  the  pan,  scour  it  with  sidi ;  Hi)  U'rtt  the  ^ 
enough  to  break  them  (12  revolutioni*  with  a  Dover  lH»ater);  H)  to  3  ^ 
add  H  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  .!^^i  teai^xK^n  of  butter  1 
into  snnall  bits,  adding  a  tea^x»on  of  milk  or  not  a8  desired;  (5) 
pan;  (6)  grease  the  pan  with  H  l*'assxx»n  of  fat;  (7)  turn  in  the  < 


EGGS  537 

with  a  fork  break  the  cooked  surface  quickly,  in  several  places  around  tho 
edgo^  or  prens  the  rj^K  away  frnm  (ho  sidf'S,  letting  tho  uncooktii  part  run 
under;  (9)  when  the  egi?  is  cot^ked.  but  still  quite  soft  on  tup,  lift  the  pan 
on  one  side,  slip  a  knife  under  the  nrnelet,  atid  carefully  fold  it  through  the 
ecnter;  (10)  let  it  cook  a  moment  to  thicken  any  of  the  e^  that  has  nin 
out;  (11)  place  a  hot  dish  over  the  pan,  and  invert  the  two  in  such  a  way 
that  the  omelet  will  fall  in  the  proper  place;  (12)  press  it  into  good  shape; 
(13)  gamisJi  it  with  parsley  and  serve  at  onc^e. 

Variations:  (1)  Sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopjied  parsley  over  the  top; 
(2)  turn  tiimato,  H^c-hitmel,  c>r  mushrfH>m  sauce  on  the  dinh  around  the 
nmelet;  sprinkle!  the  top  with  chopped  mushrooms^  if  mushroom  sauee  is 
used;  (3)  spread  the  omelet  with  chopped  ham,  oysters,  or  ehicken  l^eforo 
folding  it,  imti  starve  it  with  a  sauce;  (4)  spread  the  onielet  with  creamed 
peas  or  other  vcKetahle  licfore  turning  it,  and  serve  it  with  white  sauce; 
(5)  spread  the  omelet  with  jelly  or  jam  l>efore  folding  it. 

Ptijfij  omdd:  (1 )  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  they  are  dr>'  (pajife  535) ; 
(2)  heat  the  yolks  until  thc^y  are  thick  and  lemon-colored;  (3)  add  3  table* 
spoonK  of  water,  !;4  teiL^^poon  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper  for  cacli  ',\  yolks, 
and  mix  the  ingretlients  thon^ughly;  (4)  turn  the  mixture  over  the  beaten 
whitt^;  (ii)  cut  and  fold  the  whites  into  the  yolk  mixture;  (6)  turn  the 
mixture  into  a  hot  bulterefl  pan;  (7)  cook  it  for  2  minutes  over  moderate 
heat;  (8)  set  it  in  the  oven  to  cook  the  top  slij^htly ;  (9)  when  a  knife  thrust 
into  the  center  cornea  out  nearly  cleiin,  remove  the  omelet  from  the  ovrn, 
cut  it  across  the  center  of  the  top  at  right  angles  to  the  handle,  fold  the  part 
nearest  the  handle  over  the  othc>r  part,  and  turn  it  on  to  a  hot  platter. 

Varififimts:  (1)  To  ^  egg-yolLs,  add  the  grated  rind  of  I  orange,  3  table- 
spoons of  orange  juice,  and  3  tablei^fxiona  of  powder(Ml  sugar,  garnishing 
tlin  omelet  with  s^IjcihI  orangfH  and  powdewKl  sugar  (this  is  a  good  ehafing- 
di^h  recipe);  (2)  add  2  tabk^poons  of  maraschino  juice  and  Va  *^''P  of 
chopped  maraschino  cherries  tu  the  beaten  yolks^  and  garnish  the  omelet 
with  strawberry  jatn  and  cherries. 

Ofiiekt  imtk  a  slorcht/ftmndatkm:  (1)  Make  1  eup  of  medium  white  sauce 
(pagp  552);  (2)  stir  into  this  the  yolks  of  5  eggs;  (H)  fold  in  the  .stifHy 
l>eaten  whit(*8  of  the  eggs;  (4)  melt  L  tablesjioon  of  butter  in  an  omelet  pan; 
(5)  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  cook  it  in  the  same  way  as  a  puffy  omelet. 

Variatitms:  (1)  Finely  chopped  ham,  chicken*  parboiled  oysters,  or 
mushrooms^  may  Ix*  added  with  the  white  sauce  to  the  yolks  of  eggs;  (2)  I 
eup  of  grated  pineapple,  I  teafipoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  K  cup  of  sugar, 
may  be  addetl  to  the  yolks;  (3)  oranges  or  strawberrie?;*  may  take  the  plnee 
of  pineapple,  the  antoiini  of  sugar  defjcnding  on  the  acidity  of  the  fruit. 

Firm  eu.stnrtls. 

Baked  cu.^i(ird:  { 1 )  Allow  from  4  to  6  eggs  or  i»  igg-ytilks^  '  ^  eu[>  of  .su^ar, 
J4  teaspoon  of  siilt,  and  it  few  gratings  of  nutmeg,  in  I  tjuart  oi  milk; 
(2)  scald  the  mUk;  (3)  beat  the  eggs  slightly^  and  add  the  salt  and  the 


A 


588  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


4 


sugar;  (4)  stir  the  scaldixl  milk  slowl}'  into  the  mixture;  f5)  turn  the  mix* 
tyre  into  a  pudding  dif^b  or  individual  cu|>»;  (6)  grate  a  little  nutnM^  ovir 
the  top;  (7)  set  the  di^h  m  a  j)an  of  hot  water,  and  bake  it  in  a  modemle 
oven;  (8)  test  it  by  running  a  knife  into  the  center.  If  the  knife  oomoi  oui 
clean,  the  cuatard  is  donr. 

VarioHam:  (1)  To  each  qua.rt  uf  milk,  add  }i  cup  of  caninid;  (2) 
lo/t-over  r;ocoa  instead  of  mitk;  (3)  to  each  quart  of  milkf  add  3  otiocQi  i 
melted  f^hocokte, 

Mdikd  eu.sfurtl:  For  a  custard  firm  enough  to  turn  from  a  moid, 
e^s  to  earh  cup  of  milk. 

Royal  custard:  For  a  custard  that  ia  cut  in  slices  aod  aenrod  as  a  j 
use  1  egg  to  1  tablespoon  of  milk. 

Liquid  cuMfirdit. 

Soft  cmtard:  (I)  Allow  4  whole  eggs  or  the  yolka  of  6  eg9^   Vi  fiip  uf 
Bugar,  Ji  t**ajspoon  of  salt,  and  ]^  t<»iks[>oon  of  vnnilhi  to  e^cJi  qimrt  of  mj    ' 
(if  eggs  arc  Rcarce,  sulnstitutje  H  tablaspoim  of  rornslarch  for  1  egg*ynDc); 
(2)  acald  the  milk;  (3)  bt^at  tho  e|?gH  slightly  and  add  the  augar  and  ll 
salt;  (4)  stir  the  scalded  miik  slowly  into  the  mixture*;  (o)  cook  the  cusUuni 
(slowly  in  a  dtiuble  boiler,  stirring  it  constantly,  until  it  thickens  and  n»tjt 
the  spoon;  (5)  if  the  custard  ctirdlca,  lM*;it  it  with  a  Dover  cgg-(jeatcr; 
(7)  add  the  flavoring;  (8)  cover  I  ho  i-u^tjird  with  a  ])erf orated  tin  uat^ 
is  served,  to  jirevont  a  fihn  from  forming, 

VamUi/mec  (1)  Just  before  removing  the  ciistard  from  thr  heal,  foJi 
in  the  whites  of  the  e|?gs  Iw^aten  until  they  are  foamy;  (2)  rarameJp  cofr< 
or  chocolate  may  l>e  addcxi  to  the  milk  before  it  is  atkled  to  the  v^g^. 

Uses  of  iiquiA  cuMiard:  [l)  Pour  the  custard  over  alternate  layorsi  of  etida 
cake  and  alieed  peaches^  pears,  l>ananu<8,  or  oranges;  (2)  pour  the  citatard 
over  shced  fruit.    Garnish  the  dish  with  slictxl  bananaa,  datc«»  or  nut  moalii^ 

Engliah  cmUtrd  (for  filling  crram  puffs  and  Eclairs):  (1)  Allow  fur  eadi 
pint  of  milk,  2  eggs  or  4  egg-yotks,  H  f'up  of  flour,  %  cup  of  sugar«  J^  tM^ 
Wpoon  of  vanilla,  and  Ji  tea8|K)on  of  salt;  (2)  mix  and  wft  ilw  dry 
dient*;  (3)  slowly  add  the  hot  milk  to  th**m,  stirring  the  mixture  cnnsi     __ 
(4)  cook  the  mixture  until  it  lioils;  (5)  t*ool  it,  stirring  it  constantly  for  I 
minutes;  (6)  add  the  egg-yolks,  or  eggs,  and  stir  it  until  the  csgg  ia 
It  may  Ije  neocss&ry  to  return  it  to  the  heat. 

Variuiions:  (1)  Ji  cup  of  black  coffee  may  be  substituted  for  J^  ctj|» 
milk ;  (2)  1  ounce  of  chocolate  cooked  with  2  tableapoona  each  of  augar*aod^^ 
water  may  be  addetl  to  the  milk. 

Soufflls, 

Plain  Himffli:  For  4  eggs,  allow  1  rtip  of  Fnuriir  and  the  juiee  and 
1  lemon,  or  it«  c^iuivalent  in  licpiid  joul  other  flavoring;  (2)  lx\at  thr  i 
until  they  an^  thick;  i'A)  add  ttir  nugar  gradually,  and  continue  1ii«t 
(4)  add  the  lemon  rind  and  juice;  (5)  cut  atid  fold  in  the  stitfty  lientei 
whites;  (6)  turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  set  ia  m  paa 


tlOCflSQ^ 

d,  use  iH 
uf 

I 
i 

oJffl 

1 

ala'V 


EGGS 


539 


"^  ^       *rt  —  n  —■^ 


6  o 


"o  D 
ail 


O  Q  0 
0   6^  (3 

0.2  a 


» 


^      if 

3        C 


B     :=r3 


^  a  3  *'5 


i         3  3 

o  1,  c  d 


n 

a   . 

II 


£21 


6  iiJC—  t 


&s 


hi 


11 


a 


i5 


■£|l 

^3  » 


^   -^    -  - 


i    tag-     &     S         %i     i     ''JJ|J»P. 


Ji  -S^^  :i;  :5 


:3?;i! 


.-*   =^ 


3 


^ 
^      -S 


t     ^    f    t 


:3r  ^ 


:sf  :f 


p  a     *3      3 

^  U         fj         t^ 


^  -   I     ll  1?l 

EQ     ^     ^     U^        OU     M     M 


1  I  5 


t 

o 

U 


540 


A  MANUAL  OF  IIOME-MAKINO 


lti>l  water,  and  l>ake  it  from  35  to  40  minutes;  (7)  sprvc  the  souffle  at  one^ 
with  or  without  sauce. 

Fruit  sotifflS:  (1 )  For  the  wliit-ce  uf  3  egjp*,  allow  5i  of  a  cup  of  fniit  fmtp 
ti rained  iind  passed  through  a  sieve,  supper  aa  needed,  and  a  few  gjninti  ( 
fiiilt;  (2)  heat  the  fruit  pulp,  and  sweeten  it;-(:5)  beat  the  egg  whiu^  until 
they  arc  stlfT;  (4)  suM  the  fruit  pulp,  sugar,  and  salt  to  them,  and  ronl 
Ijeating;  (5)  turn  the  mixture  into  buttered  molds,  tilling  them  thre«*-fo 
full;  (6)  »qX  the  mokln  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  the  Roufil^ 
moderate  oven  until  it  is  firm;  (7)  serve  it  with  or  without  aauoe 
whipfx^d  cream, 

VegtUible  souffli:  (t)  Allow  3  eggs  and  1  cup  of  vegetable  pulp,  ruhtm 
through  a  sieve  to  1  cup  of  thick  whit^  mvuce;  (2)  l)e*t  the  yulks  nrt*-'  ** 
are  thick;  (3)  add  them  to  the  thick  white  tiwiuce;  (4)  add  the  v*  i 
(5)  iK'at  the  whit**!*  until  they  arr^  stiff;  (6)  fold  them  into  the  otini  mi 
lure;  (7)  add  the  sca^sruiinj^;  (tS)  turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttiu^  tiakinic*] 
dish  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  rook  it  in  a  nuKlcrate  oven  until  it  ta  *?*,  J 

Custard  soufflt  (for  the  main  dish  nr  dcissert):  (l)  Allow  4  egjcs,  \£  eu|i| 
of  sugar  if  the  soufftd  is  to  l)e  ustnl  for  di-a^^Tt^  and  Vi  tcnisjKKJu  uf  gadt,  to  ll 
cup  of  thick  white  sauce;  (2)  beat  the  yolka  until  they  are  thick;  {3>  add] 
the  beaten  yolks  and  the  sugar  to  the  w^hite  stiuee;  (4)  beat  the  whiteiv  untiti 
they  are  stiff;  (5)  fold  them  into  tlie  othiT  mijcture;  (6)  turn  the  mixturel 
into  a  buttered  l>aking<lish.  and  set  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water;  (7)  bake  it  fori 
about  35  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven;  (8)  serve  it  at  once  ivith  er#iamy  or  J 
foamy  sauce  (see  Sauce n,  ^mge  560). 

Fondtiea  are  made  in  the  same  manner  as  soufTlds,  milk  with  breiidcnimltt  | 
being  uaed  inatead  of  a  whi  te  kiiuc^c.    They  are  not  so  light  as  souffle.    Both 
fondues  and  souffles  shnukl  be  haki^  by  being  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 
placed  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Meringues. 

Meringut»  for  pies  and  garnishee  far  deuerU:  (1)  Allow  1  tabkspoao  of 
sugar  to  1  egg-white;  (2)  chill  the  egg-whites;  (3)  add  a  pinch  of  salt  tft 
them;  (4)  beat  them  with  an  egg-whisk  until  they  are  stiff;  (5)  add  Xhm 
sugar  gmdually^  and  continue  iK'ating  until  the  »ugar  i^  thortiughly  clin- 
Bolve*!;  (ti)  add  flav^oriiig  as  desired;  (7)  cook  the  meringue  in  a  very  Hltnr 
oven  for  alnjut  15  minutes,  incre:using  the  heat  somewhat  toward  tiie  «id 
of  the  (K«riod,  if  uect^ssary,  to  brown  the  meringue. 

Sn4}W€ggti:  {})  Allow  I  ounce  of  sugar  (2  tablespooas)  lo  I  ounce  of  cug- 
wliite  (2  tablespoons);  (2)  lieat  the  whiter  until  they  are  oejirly  dr>*;  (3) 
cxintinue  beating,  and  add  half  i>f  the  sugar  gradtially;  (4)  when  the  mix- 
ture is  very  firm,  fold  in  the  other  half  of  the  sugar;  (5)  dip  a  tablesfKjt^n  in 
bijiling  water,  fill  it  with  meringue,  and  8tia|je  the  meringue  in  the  form  of 
an  egg;  (6)  remove  the  HfXKinfula  of  meringue  to  a  pan  of  gently  simnientii; 
water,  and  let  it  stand  where  the  water  will  keep  liot;  (7)  poach  the  mt> 
lingue  until  it  is  firm  throughout;  this  requires  from  10  b>  H  mimitei^ 


1 
I 


EGGS 


541 


1 

h 

J3  flS 

S 
S\a     a 

5. 

j! 

|al 

:S 

2° 

t^ 

III  1 

«   O   <B 

s. 

JQ, 

3 

^1 

1 

|l\  1S| 

1 

•^■5 

X 

f  Ip  e     5.fl 

_  c8 

u* 

1 

1 

1| 

6 
1 

•1 

S 

vH 

if 

1 

ll 

3 

3 

^ 

,§ 

a 

ilfl 

^1 

*"2 

u 

t 

dS 

-S2. 

g 

ii 

R 

•^ 

X 

X 

M 

;a 

1 

d 

dd 

mJ 

3 

« 

52 

pq 

5 

00 

5 

:^:i: 

1. 

a 

1 

a 

a 

3 

CO 

r- 

:?t 

1 

'f 

4 

n    « 

<*<* 

:  3 

<« 

1"^ 

1 

a 

1 

3«    « 

pu 

b 

>    O 

o  u 

542 


^1  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Snow  egf^i  may  be  poached  in  milk,  and  the  milk  may  bo  used  o/ier 
in  making  custards. 

Mirinffues  Jor  dcssrrts:  (1)  AUow  1  pound  (2  en  pa)  of  mifcai*  and 
teaspoon  of  salt  to  H  ix^und  (1  cu|»)  of  fresh  e|tg-whik^;  (2)  chiU  the  og;^^ 
whites;  (3)  add  the  salt;  (4)  beat  them  nlowiy  at  firwl,  but  futft^r  as  they  j 
grow  stiff;  (5)  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  ami  beat  it  in  Ihnroughly ;  (6)  add  1 
2  tableapoon^  of  sugar  twice  again,  and  eontinuc  bt?atinf{  unlit  the  mixture  I 
can  be  cut  ck^an  with  a  knife;  (7)  add  the  remainder  of  the  sugar ,  folding 
it  into  the  it\a^  lightly  and  smoothly;  (8)  taiik  a  |»iiH'e  of  diunp  paper  on 
a  hf>ard  I  inch  thick;  (9)  drop  the  mixttirt*  in  npoonfulrt  on  the  papi'r,  giving 
each  spiKmful  an  oval,  or  egg  shape;  (10)  dust  tliem  with  gninulat>«l  sugair; ' 
(II)  set  them  in  a  vpr>^  slow  oven  to  dr>';  (12)  at  the  end  increa**!'  the  heat 
to  brown  them  delicately,  the  baking  requiring  from  %  to  I  hour;  (t3) 
when  they  are  baked,  lift  them  from  the  paper,  and  take  out  t lie  uncooked 
centers,  returning  the  shells  to  the  oven  to  dr>'  out;  (14)  when  the  aheOs 
are  cold,  fill  them  with  whipped  cream,  ice  creaJn,  or  water  icsej  (15)  flcrro 
t  he  menngues  at  once. 

Italian  meringue. — Italian  meringue  is  uftwl  for  icing  oJcgb  and  on  a 
sauce.    Directions  for  making  it  are  given  on  page  4S8. 

VarialioTitL:  (1)  Subi*titu(e  ^  cup  of  grat^  pinea|>ple  juice  and  pulp  for  | 
the  water;  (2)  to  2  egg-whites,  allow  1  pound  of  maple  »ugar  cut  int*i  bits, 
and  }^  cup  of  water  in  place  of  the  granulate<1  f»ugar  ami  the  water;  (3)  aild 
2  ounces  of  melted  chocolate  to  the  sirup  when  it  reaches  the  thnsttd  st 


CHAPTER  XXIX 

VEGETABLES 
By  LuciLE  Brewee 

Although  by  means  of  proper  stora^^e,  vegetables  can 
kept  beyotKl  their  season,  the  priee  of  protlucts  held  in  this  way 
is  necessarily  higher  than  of  those  boufi:ht  in  season.  Therefore, 
the  general  rule  should  lie  to  use  vegetables  when  they  are  in 
season  (page  550) » 

Vegetables  may  l)e  classified  as  follows  according  to  the  parts 
of  the  plants  used : 

Tubers, — Potatoes,  Jerusalem  artichokes. 

Roots. — Beets,   earrots,   pai^snipsj   radishes^  sweet   potatoes, 
salsify,  and  turnips. 

Bu/6s.— <iar!ic.  onions,  shallots. 

Stems, — Asparagus^  eelery,  chives. 

Learns, — Brussels  sprouts^  beet  greens,  cabbage,  dandelion, 
lettuce,  sorrel,  spinach,  water  cress. 

Flowers, — Cauliflower 

Fni/i.^Beans,  corn,  cucumbers,  okra,  qggplant,  peao,  lentils, 
squash,  tomatoes. 


CAKE   OF   VEGETABLES   IN    THE    HOME 

Sunmier,  or  green,  vegetables  should  be  cooked  as  soon  as 
possible  after  being  gatheretL  If  they  most  be  kept,  they  should 
be  spread  oa  the  floor  of  a  cool,  dry,  well-ventilated  cellar,  or 
placed  in  the  ice  chest.  Lettuce  should  l>e  sprinkled  with  cold 
water,  antl  wrappefl  in  heavy  paper  or  cloth.  If  vegetables  are 
wilted,  they  may  be  freshencHl  by  standing  in  cold  water.  Vege- 
talik^s  containing  sugar  lose  some  of  the  sweetness  by  standing. 
Corn  and  peas  lose  their  flavor  more  quickly  in  this  way  than 
any  others. 

543 


I 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Winter  vegetables  should  be  stored  in  a  cool  dry  place.    Po 

tatoes,  carrots,  and  furiiips  should  be  kept  in  Imrrels  or  birii 
in  order  that  as  much  air  as  possil>le  may  be  excluded.  Squashc 
should  be  spread  apart  in  such  a  way  that  they  will  not  tourti 
one  another.  They  should  he  watched  carefully  and  when 
dark  spots  appear,  should  l>e  cooked  at  once.  Further  direction 
are  given  on  page  584. 

Canned  vegetaljlcs  should  Ije  emptied  from  tlie  caii  as  soon^ 
as  they  are  opened,  turned  into  a  lx>wl,  and  allowed  to  stand  for 
at  least  one  hour  lief  ore  being  used,  in  order  that  the  flavor  mayj 
be  improved  by  contact  with  the  air. 

Dried  vegetable's  should  be  soaked  in  cold  wat^r  overnight^ 
and  cooked  in  the  same  water,  more  being  added,  if  necessary. 

COOKING    OF   VEGETABLES 

Vegetables  may  be  classifie<^l  acconling  tx>  flavor  into  the 

with  strong  juices,  and  those  with  mild  juices. 

Slrong-^juiced  vcgekihlcs. 

Strong-juiced  vegetables,  such  as  cauUflower,  Bruasels  sprout^  1 
W)age,  onions,  and  turnips,  should  be  washetl  in  cold  water] 
knd  cooked  until  they  are  just  tender,  in  boiling  wat^r  in  an 
uncovered  kettle  to  allow  the  vnkitile  ckIs   to  pa'^s  off   in   th«i  | 
steam.     In  this  way  the  flavor  is  made  more  delicate,  and  the 
color  is  kept  bett er.    I f  st rong-j uicci!  veget  ables  are  over-cook€*d, 
they  become  dark  in  color,  strong  in  flavor^  and  may  produce 
digestive  ciisturbancea. 

Milti'juiced  vegetubles. 

Vegetabk^  with  niikl  juices,  which  include  the  greater  number^ 
should  l)e  washed  in  cold  water  anil  cooked  in  boiling  water  in  a  j 
kettle  with  the  cover  ajar  until  they  are  soft, 

SaU, 

If  salt  is  addet^l  to  the  wat(*r  in  which  vegetables  are  eookefl, 
the  flavor  ami  color  will  be  irnprove<L  Lt'ss  mineral  matter  is 
dissolved  out  in  cooking  wlien  smU  is  added  at  the  Ijegirmitig 
of  the  peritMl  than  at  the  end.     If  the  vegetables  are  wilted  aiMl 


VEGETABLES  545 

likely  to  be  tough,  it  may  be  better  to  add  the  salt  just  as  they 
ure  done, 

Thi"  1180  of  soda  in  cooking  vojB^etables  is  a  questionable  prac- 
tice if  it  is  employed  in  a  lai-ger  amount  than  is  necessaiy  just 
to  neutralizt^  any  at;id  of  the  vegetable  and  thus  prevent  loss 
of  color  in  cooking.  If  used  in  this  small  amount,  it  accomplishes 
the  purpose  ami  does  not  make  tlie  vegetable  water  unfit  for 
use  in  soups  and  sauces.  It  is  thoup;ht  that  the  vitamines  of 
vcKctables  may  lie  destroyed  if  heated  in  an  alkaline  solution; 
therefore,  only  a  very  small  amount  of  soda  should  lie  used.  For 
soaking  and  cooking  ilried  legumes,  however,  >^  teaspoon  of 
soda  is  recommended  for  each  quart  of  water,  to  soften  the 
water  and  the  skins. 

Blunching, 

Vegetables  may  be  made  more  delicate  in  flavor  if  they  are 
blanched.  To  blanch  vegeta!>les,  they  should  be  covered  with 
fjoiling  water  and  alloweil  to  boil  for  i5  minutes.  They  may  then 
be  drain(»<b  rinsed  in  cold  water,  and  cooked  as  usual  Since 
blanching  causes  a  loss  of  a  certain  amount  of  the  foot!  suIh 
stance,  it  is  not  recommended. 

Losses  in  cooking  vegetables. 

Boiling  vegetables  Ls  a  wiisteful  method  of  cooking  them  unless 
all  the  wate*r  is  used  in  some  way,  such  as  in  soups  or  sauces. 
Much  of  the  nutrutive  value,  esjx*cially  the  mineral  substances, 
is  dissolved  out  l)y  the  water.  In  the  average  well -planned 
dietary,  vegetables  and  fruits  are  flepe^nded  on  to  furnish  much 
of  the  mineral  needed  by  the  body;  even  though  they  may 
seem  lugh  in  price  compared  with  certain  other  foods,  an  effort 
is  made  to  procure  them.  Therefore,  a  loss  of  the^e  important 
mineral  substances — iron,  phosphorus,  calcium,  and  mag- 
nesium— through  careless  cooking  should  be  avoided.  The  loss 
of  iron  in  boiling  spinach,  ftjr  example,  has  l)een  found  to  be  as 
great  as  b(}  per  cent  imder  certain  conditions.  The  per- 
centage of  loss  is  increased  by  paring  the  vegetables  or  cutting 


I!      ! 


Stciiinin^  vcp'tahlcs  cfTcct? 
However,  tlie  most  eeonoinic 
tables  that  allow  it,  ia  to  bake 


VEGETABLES 


547 


t^**i 


^1^1  §1111 


■S5 

H 

iii 


J^S5  . 
I  -  a  s - 

I  mi 


is 
is 


.III 

l>    h    b 


CO 


41? 

•ill 


^ 

a 


I 


M 


as  IS  I 


ti 


E 

o4. 


E  a 


.6    «6 


il 


9.SS: 


illH] 


^^-  O  g£  g  «—  rt£  a^  P'3  SS  n'^^  *—  O  O  P'5  S  «  S^'3  ?  « 

3^irj^  i'^/i;  if -^-SQ  E-^^  g  Sao  £  <  «  ifs  3  i^  g  i  >-d^  1^  ^ 


life 


Id  (o  n 


I? 


II 

a5 


11 
'J 


1^ 

11 


If 

15 


3 
a 


S 


0  0 


!  ^  I 


|i1 


l^^flS^  I  111 

fc  Si  F  oJ  *  t;     ^  *°-S 

£  £  «  ^  "-3     a  o  9-5 


1.1  .-l-s  I  si  lis 


I 


s 


VEGETABLES 


549 


m 


III 


^^ 


2 


te.fi  «'  «j  -  c  >  "-c  «  ** 


I  S  ^'^^  g 


Lp^g3^|JSaii 


*S  5-9 


312= 


2 
PS 


III! 


ll 

•ssl 


III 


I 


I 


h 


! 


550 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Q 

^ 
>. 

1 

1 

1 

a 

1 

O 

1 

w 

1 

t 

1 

1 

1. 

1 

1 

1 1  1 

1 

o 

50 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

f 

!■ 

< 

1 

1 

1 

1 

'A 

< 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

* 

1 

I 

3 

\ 

[ 

' 

1 

( 

1 

53 

■^  1   1   1   !   :  1   1   ' 

1 

1 

1 

V 

^1 

' 

ill 

1      I      1 

1 

III' 

W 

1 

1 

< 
■J. 

£ 
^ 

!  '  i 

1 

1     \    - 

1    1 
1    ' 

1 

H 

*- 

.1 

:    !         1    1     ,     1    ■'         !    '              1     i" 

1                 1                 ,                  1                ^                                   ,                                                    1                                                                                         1                    1 

7     , 

tC 

I         ''III' 

'    1        1    ' 

1 

.1     1 
■^  1     1 

1 
1 

1  .  M  1      ' 
1     1 

1 

h 

^ 
A 

1 

1 

Si 

X 

i 

2 

c 

1 

1 

i 

1^ 

i 

1 

<2 

1 

1 

1 

♦; 

i 
u; 

1 

:    3 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

c 

±£ 

VEGETABLES 


651 


Dec. 

1              1 

1 

Nor. 

1       1              1 

1 

Oct. 

1              II              II              1 

1       1 

Stpl. 

1       1       1       1              1       1       1       1 

1       1       1 

Aue. 

1                     1              1              1       1 

1       1 

■t          1          1 

1                    II                    II 

June 

1       1                           1 

1              1 

1       ' 

1              1 
1       1                           1 

Apr. 

• 

i        ' 

1 

Feb. 

1 

Jan. 

1 

Vegetabie 

Onion,  mature 

Parsley 

Parsnips 

Peas,  green 

Peas,  sugar 

PoUtoes 

PoUtoes.  sweet 

Pumpkin 

Radish 

Rhubarb 

Rutabaga  turnip 

Salsify 

Squash 

Sninach 

Swiss  chard 

Tomato 

Turnip 

CHAPTER  XXX 


SAUCES 


By  Winifred  Moses 


Sauces  aro  reliecl  on  in  cookery  as  a  basis  for  soups,  cr 
quettes,  souffle,  eertiiiii  dess€^rt^,  such  a«  coriLstarrh  puddiu 
and  a,s  a  means  of  making  other  fooils  more*  palatable  or  mc 
nutritious.  The  few  ty[K\s  of  ^simple  sauces  can  be  varied  aliOG 
without  limit  by  the  imaginative  cook. 

WHITE  SAUCE 

Thin  sauce 

Up  to  ?4  or  I  tablespoon  fat 

J4  or  1  lablesporm  flour  i 

1  cup  milk 

Seasoning 

Medium  thick  «ai*c« 
Up  to  2  tablespoons  fat 

IfS  ^  2J^  rablespoona  flour 

1  cup  milk 

Bcsasoniai; 

Thick  muce 

Up  to  3  or  4  tablespoons  fat 

3  or  4  tabteapoonB  flour 

1  cup  milk 

Seasoning 

Mtihf^U. 

(1}  Melt  tlie  fat  in  the  lop  of  a  double  lioiler;  (2)  when  the?  fat  bubblifl^ 
remove  tbc  kettle  from  the  heatp  add  the  tliickening  agent,  stimtig  tlit 
mixture  unril  it  is  smooth;  (3)  tit  Id  the  eoM  Liquid,  return  the  mixturt  to 
the  fire,  and  «tir  it  oonatanlly  until  it  boili?;  (4)  add  the  aeftaoning. 

In  this  method  nearly  as  much  fat  as  flour  t^hould  b<*  ujsed, 

(1)  Scald  the  liquid  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler;  (2)  mix  the  t  hirkenm 
agefkt  with  a  small  amount  of  cold  Uquid,  be^it  it  fn^?  frt>ni  all  luiuj] 

«8 


SAUCES 


and  thin  it  to  the  consbtency  of  thin  cream;  (3)  add  thu*  paste  gradually 
to  the  Bcalded  liquid,  stirring  the  sauce  confitantly  until  it  boilsj  (4)  add  j 
the  fat  and  the  f*ea.soning. 
Fat  may  be  omitted  in  this  method,  or  varying  amounts  may  be  used. 

If  a  large  quantity  of  sauce  is  to  he  made,  Method  II  is  recom- 
mended because  of  the  shorter  time  reciuired.  If  the  sauce 
is  not  to  Ije  used  immediately,  it  may  hm  kept  hot  over  hot  water. 
It  should  be  kept  covered  to  prevent  a  film  fonning  on  the  sur- 
face. If  lumps  appear,  due  to  a  faulty  method  of  making,  they 
may  Ije  removed  by  beating  the  sauce  with  an  egg-beater  or  by 
strainmg  it. 

BUTTER  SAUCE 

Mdkod  of  making:  (1)  Melt  half  of  the  butter;  (2)  a<Id  the  flour  and 
seaaoninga;  (3)  stir  the  mbtturc  over  the  fire  until  it  bubblr-i^;  (4)  remove 
it  from  the  fire;  (5)  adil  the  hot  water  gradtjaii^^;  (fi)  return  the  mixture  lo 
the  fire  and  boil  it^  stirring  it  con5tantl3%  (7)  add  the  remaining  butter  in 
email  pieces. 

BROWN  SAUCES 
Method  of  making:  (1)  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan;  (2)  add  the  flour 
and  Btir  the  mbcture  until  it  bubblea;  (3)  remove  the  mixture  from  the 
fire,  and  add  the  liquid  Kradiially,  stirring  constantly  t/O  prevent  lumps 
from  forming;  (4)  return  the  eatiee  to  the  firt*,  and  8tir  it  until  it  boils; 
(5)  browTi  stock,  brownetl  flour,  kitehen  bouquet,  Worcestershire  sauce, 
or  caramel  may  be  uned  to  give  a  brown  color;  (<j)  when  vegetabl*^  and 
herbs  are  UBcd  as  flavoring,  mil  tbem  very  fine,  cook  them  in  the  biil  ter 
until  they  are  a  russet  brown,  strain  the  sauce  before  using  it;  (7)  when 
raw  rnushroom^s  are  used,  peel  them  and  clean  tliem,  simmer  them  in 
water  until  they  are  tender,  or  sautd  them  in  butter;  (8)  when  olives  are 
u«ed,  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  let  them  simmer  for  an  hour,  cut 
them  from  the  seeds. 


SAUCES  THICKENED  WITH  EGG 

MHhoti  of  mnfcing:  (I)  Wajsh  J^  cup  of  butter  and  put  in  a  bowl;  to  wa^h 
butter,  cover  it  with  cold  water  and  wash  it  with  a  woi^den  wpoiin  until  il  is 
free  from  water  and  f^alt;  (2)  cliviiie  the  liutler  into  thrt«  parts;  (3)  put  one 
piece  ia  a  saucepan  with  the  unbeaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  lemon  juice; 
(4)  place  the  saucepan  in  hot  water;  (5)  stir  the  mixture  in  ttie  t<uueepun 
couBtantly  until  the  butter  is  n>elted;  (B)  add  the  second  i>iece  of  butter 
and  continue  the  stirring;  (7)  aild  the  thinl  piece  of  butter  and  continue 
the  stirring;  (8)  aild  the  liquid  and  the  other  ingredienta  graduallyi  stirring 
the  aauce  constantly  until  it  thickens. 


SAUCES 


555 


1 


I 


I  ll 

„       -       =      •38  «S 
3     3   ll  3|  i}  3-sill 


Is 


.el  2 


I  11   I  I  I 

.1  if     ^  J  J 

,D  £2    ^  ^  !5 

5  53    5  5 


I 


Sja-g  :i      3  0 


d       '^     d 


1 


bM     ti 


■g 


SAUCES 


657 


il 

So 

$  «  c 


I  -^eisii  -- 


Mill  liiifi  tm  '(i\\$ 


..JlUlMfllllffi 


m 


Il     llllll 

■S3     "S  s-^^  S"^  3 


5^    5 
«    tj    M 


^1 


A     I  I II 


2   s 

a     a 


g     g     g 

£     S     S 


a 
I 

s  S 


I 
i 


I 

a 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


l| 

III 


I 

1 
t 


1!  SI        a 

I      S    I 


? 

J3 

S 

& 

S  ^ 

^ 

£ 

I 

s.  a 

9 

9 

1 

9  9 

h. 

w 

e* 

« 

«««     w 

s 

s 

S 

5  s 

t; 

i 

i 

s 

1  i 

Bk. 

t 

t 

1 

1 1 

x 

X 

X 

X   T 

Is    fi.S'    d&    IgS*: 


i^:s!  -:f 


% 


tlliidi|giii 


J  u 


SAUCES 


559 


ii 

s 

■M 
J 


I  I  I 

I     I   3 

II  1 1 


Pi    H 


560 


.4   MAWAL  OF  HOMB-MAKISG 


fiii 


3? 


1 
1 


3 


»      »    ? 


if 


Ihir 


e  *_;  >►        * 


SAUCES 

In  all  flweet  sauces  excppt  hard  Bauce,  corn  sirup,  maple  sirup,  or  honey 
raay  be  aubstitutr^l  for  all  or  part  of  the  sugar  with  slight  adjustment. 


SWEET  SAUCES 

Siveei  saitces  thickened  unth  Htmrhj  mnienaL 

Mtthmi  of  making:  (1)  Mix  thf*  wugar  tmd  the  i"t>m.Hf:irch;  (2)  add  the 
hot  hquid  gradually;  (3)  cook  Ihe  luixturp,  stirring  it  consttiiitly  until  it 
thickens;  (4)  continue  the  cooking  over  hot  water  until  the  uncfM>ked 
flavor  of  the  thickening  agent  can  no  longcT  be  delt^cteil;  (5)  add  any 
flavoring  material  that  is  to  be  used. 

Stveet  sauces  thickefwd  with  egg. 

Method  of  nmking:  Forsauec«  in  which  butter  and  sugar  do  not  form  th(* 
basis:  (1)  Beat  the  egg  slightly;  (2)  add  the  milk,  hoi  or  cold;  (3)  add  the 
sugar  and  the  salt;  (4)  mix  the  ingrcdientH  thortjughiy;  (5)  c(x>k  the  mix- 
ture over  hot  water,  stirring  it  constantly  untU  it  eoats  the  Hpoon;  (0)  add 
any  flavoring  material  that  is  to  be  U8e<J;  (7)  if  the  sauce  curdles,  beat  it 
thomughly  with  a  Dover  egg-bealer. 

For  sauces  in  which  butler  and  sugar  form  the  basis:  (1)  Cream  the 
butler;  (2)  atld  the  migar;  (3)  add  the  egg,  well-beaten;  (4)  add  the  liquid 
gradually;  (5)  ct>ok  the  mixture  ovir  hot  water  until  it  in  crcairiyj  stirring 
it  constantly;  (<])  add  any  flavoring  material  that  in  to  be  used. 

For  sauces  thiekent^l  with  beatc*ii  egg  whites:  Add  the  egg  whites  to 
the  other  ingredients,  which  are  cooked  or  uncooked  as  necessan'',  and 
beat  the  sauce  until  the  ingreclients  are  well  combiii©Ll. 


I 


,  Sirup  sauces. 

Meiho*i  of  making:  Combine  the  sugar  and  the  water,  and  put  the  mix- 
ture over  the  heat;  stir  it  until  the  sugar  is  dissolvetl;  boil  it  without  stirring 
it  until  it  fonns  a  gootl  thread  when  droppetl  from  a  t^poon;  add  the  flavor- 
ing or  crushed  fruit. 


TABLE  L,— Smtrp  Sauces  • 


Saiwe 

IngredietiU 

U^ 

Simp 

Strawberry .    . 

3  tbap.  boding  water,  2  cups 
sugar*  1  t.*^p.  butter,  fruit 
juicp  for  de>*inxl  flavor 

J^  cup  boiling  water,  J^  cup 
sugar^  1  quart  Btrawberries 
put  through  a  sieve               ' 

Plain   puddings^    pan- 
cakes 

Bljinc  mange,    cottage 
pudding 

MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


rntum. 


mi  of  making:  (l)  Cramn  llw  tnitU*r;  (2)  mid  ihi^  8ti|^ar  gmdiuilly; 
J  tbe  other  ingriMiJents,  working  ihv-in  weM  into  the  tiiixturr;  (4) 
the  sauce  on  ice  to  harden. 


TABLE  LL— SoLiB  BAVcm 


SaxtCG 

j                   Ingredienls 

Vne 

t. 

3^  cQp  butter,  I  cup  sugar, 
vanilla 

Puddings 

a: 

H^P  bytter,  1  egg  yolk,  1 
cup  sugar,  vanlUa 

Pudding 

L. 

a  cup  butter,  1  ^:g  white,  I 
cup  migar,  vanitla 

Puddingii 

wry 

1/3  cup  butter,  1  egg  while, 
1  cup  i>owdered  Biijijar.  2fS 
cup  Btmwberry  pulp 

Bulled  rice 

Ck)ooanut  , 

H  cup  butter,  2  €gg  yolks, 

Buet     puddinic,     pbte 

2  egg  whites,  1  cup  grat^l 

pudding,      BtefMan*^! 

oocoauut,  1  cup  sugar 

puilding,  hot  rice  puil- 
ding,  hot  tapioea  jnni- 

ding 

CHAPTER  XXXI 

SALADS 

By  MmiAM  Birdseye 


The  wort]  salad  ii?  derived  from  the  Latin  salattts,  meaning 
salted.  The  original  ^iilad  probably  consietetl  of  crisp  leaf  or 
stem  vegetables  dreBsetl  with  salt.  With  the  passage  of  years, 
the  meaning  of  the  term  has  been  expanded  to  include  any 
fowl  or  combination  of  foods  served  with  an  acid-bearing 
dressing,  provided  it  is  accompanied  by  some  crisp  salad-green 
as  an  important  part  of  the  dish  itself  or  as  a  conspicuous 
gamLsh.  The  tj'pical  salad,  however,  remains  a  dish  of  crisp 
salad  greens  with  some  very  simple  dressing,  sometimes  only 
oil  and  salt. 

SalMis  offer  a  palatable  anfl  attractive  way  of  disposing  of 
small  quanlities  of  choice  leit-over  vegetables,  fruits,  or  meatus, 
and  of  introducing  fruits  and  vegetables  into  the  daily  meals, 
especially  green  leaf-vegetables,  which  are  know^n  to  be  excel- 
lent sources  of  food-iron.  Salads  lend  a  strong  color  note, 
pleasantly  acid  flavor,  and  succulence  to  the  menu.  Probably 
no  other  iype  of  dish  solves  as  many  of  the  menu-maker's 
problems  as  does  salad;  and  this  is  the  real  secret  of  its  popu- 
larity. 

8ALAD    HERBS 

To  season  salads  and  dressings. 

The  following  herbs,  except  capers,  may  easily  be  grown  in 
the  home  garden.  For  directions  for  cultivating  them,  see 
Bailey's  **  Standartl  Cyelopcniia  of  Hortit^ulture/' 

Captr.'i:  Used  aa  a  garnish  for  meat  and  fish  ajila<ls,  mixed  wilh  the  salad 
itself,  or  chopped  and  adder!  with  other  choppM  seasonings  1^  itiayiirinaisv 
dressing.    Capers  arc  the  buds  of  a  shrub  whMi  is  cultivattKi  in  European 

56a 


I 


564 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKLWG 


coiinirieB  bordering  the  Meditctranean;  they  are  generally  pickled  in  vinv- 
gar  and  sold  in  small  bottletii. 

Chervil:  Choprwxl  like  parsley,  sprinkled  over  encUve  or  fish  »«*^«^  or 
UJWid  to  make  cheml  vinegar. 

Chices:  ChopptiJ  and  sprinkkxl  over  potato  or  meat  salads,  or  added 
salaiJ  dressings.  They  are  a  small  plant  of  the  onion  family  and  grow  wild 
in  many  parLs  of  the  count ^>^  C^ultiviiteci  eliivea  may  8ometinif59  bw  lx>uKhl 
growing  in  flat  wooden  boxes;  they  art?  slender  onion-like  leaves. 

Garlic:  The  bulb  or  "elov^"  is  somelimej*  uned  to  rub  the  bottoRi  of  i 
salad-bowl,  but  morn  frcniuently  io  prepare  a  rhajxm  for  gre^n  salada.    Al 
chaiK)n  is  a  thin  piere  of  bread  crust,  jibrmt  1  inch  wide  and  2  inclics  1 
sprinkled  with  salt  and  rubbed  with  a  rnished  clove  of  garUc,     It  i 
in  the  1  lot  torn  of  the  .salad  Iwwl  before  the  salad  is  put  in,  and 
during  the  mixing,  but  is  rtimovtil  bc^forc  the  saliid  is  served. 

Nanlurtium:  The  flowers  are  Ui^efi  as  a  garnish;  the  leaves  and  youilg 
budfl  are  ehopptni  to  give  flavor.    8omet  trnes  yoimg  seeds  are  chopped  and  j 
added  to  muyonnaise  dressing  with  other  ehoppwl  se^isoning?^. 

Onimi:  The  cut  side  of  an  onion  may  be  rubbed  over  the  bowl  hcrforaJ 
the  salad  is  put  in  to  give  a  slight  onion  flavor  to  a  green  saliid.  <>d  for] 
dressings  to  be  used  with  ve^etubk^.  trieat,  or  tkh  is  sometimes  llAvioirei] 
by  allowing  a  slice  of  onion  or  a  litt  le  onion  pulp  to  lie  in  it  far  a  few  tioofv;  j 
onion  juice  may  be  added  to  ihe  dre^^ing  itself  if  diisired. 

Pardry:  Chopped  fine  and  tistnl  with  other  chopped  seaflomn^  in  batJ 
French  and  Mayonnaise  dressings. 

*Sin^c:  Choppe<i  and  use* I  with  meat  salads. 

SjMnrrnini:  Chojjpc*!  and  sprinklt^l  over  cold  lamb  salad;  or  used  for 
flavoring  vinegar  to  be  serveii  with  (amb  .salad. 

SufH  basil:  Vt^Oi]  with  fish  and  shell-fish. 

Tarragon:  Cho[>iKHl  und  sprinklwl  over  salads^  or  use<l  to  make  1 
vinegar.    Tarragon  has  a  delicate  flavor  resembling  that  of  i 


tm*  oreML  V 


ScxuHon^  for  mlad  greens. 

Spring:  Lettuce  (curly,  Boston  hcivl,  or  Romaine  varieties),  water  * 
upland  or  winter  crtsw  (charlock),  black  or  white  mustard,  peppei]gf«M, 
wild  chives*  young  radish  and  turnip  tops,  i^rrel,  blanched  dandetiom^ 
Oom-sala«l  (lamb's  salad  or  fetticus),  blanched  wild  chicory  (succory). 

Sumnirr:  IjCttucOi  water  cre^^^  sorrel,  cabbage,  nasturtium  atexna  and 
young  ijuds,  endive  (late  sunmier).  i 

Autumn:  Lettuce,  siirrel,  endive,  cabbogiv  Cvelery,  1 

WitUcr:   Lettuce,    French   endive    (witloof  clueoiy),   endivep   cahbagr, 
celery. 

SAL.iD   DREaSlNOS 

The  apparently  infinite  ni»mber  of  saIft(J  dre^ssing^  may  read-j 
ily  be  reduced  to  a  few  well-rccognused  types.    These  types  with 


k 


SALADS 


565 


their  best-known  modifications  are  listed  below  in  the  order 
of  their  simijlicity.  It  is  believetl  that  this  clas^ilicatiori  will 
prove  more  aoggestive  than  a  large  number  of  specific  recipes. 

SaU. 

Suitable  for  a  green  sakd.  * 

Salt  and  mL 

Suitable  for  a  green  &alad  or  for  tomatoes. 

Vinegar,  sitgar,  and  toaier. 

Suitable  for  a  green  sabd  or  for  tomatoes. 

Lemon  juice,  ^tgar^  nnd  water. 
Suitable  for  a  grw^n  salad,  for  tornat+Mirf,  or  for  fruit.    Children  are  likely 
to  t*njoy  this  dressing. 

Recipe. 

Stramr*fl  juine  of  1  lemon,  1  tcjispoon  powdereti  sugar 

An  equal  quantity  of  cold  water     Salt 

French  dressing. 

The  most  extensively  used  dressing;  suitable  for  green  salads,  vegetable 
salads j  fruit  salads,  egg,  Bsh,  or  meat  salads,  although  ua  a  rule  a  thicker 
dressing  is  preferred  for  the  last  three. 

Recipe. 

3  tables^ poons  oil  .  34  to  fj  teasiKKm  salt 

1  lal>lesi>oon  vinegar  1/8  te4ispoon  pepper 

or  lemon  juice  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Mix  the  ingredit^nts  thoroughly,  either  by  beating  them  with  a  fork  till 
w*ell  Ihiekenwl,  or  by  shaking  them  in  a  jar  or  gkiHs-stoppered  bottle.  If 
French  dn^ssing  is  made  in  qtiaiitity  in  a  bottle,  the  amount  needtHl  may 
be  t>*>'J*'*-'^^  *^ut f  ''■"^1  *h(^  remainder  may  be  stored  in  a  cold  place  for  sub- 
ec<iuent  use.  The  dressing  wlnmld  be  thoroughly  shaken  before  it  is  used 
a  second  tinie.    Spcx'ial  bottles  for  French  dressing  are  now  on  the  market. 

Variafion.^  of  French  dressing. 

1.  Add  54  teaspoon  of  onion  juice.  2.  Add  1  teaspoon  made  mustard  or 
J4  tea.^poon  ground  mustan!.  3.  Use  }4  teaspoon  paprika  (Hungarian  red 
pepper)  instead!  of  black  pepper.  4.  Add  from  li  to  34  teaspoon  of  pow- 
dered i^ugar.  5.  For  fruit  saiiuls,  use  lemon  juice,  omnge  juice,  or  grape- 
fruit juice  in  place  of  the  vinegar,  and  add  yi  teas(X)on  or  more  of  powdered 
sugar,  6.  To  make  a  sharjier  ttisting  dressing,  use  a  larger  proportion  of 
vinegar  and  more  salt.  7.  I'se  vint^ar  flavoreti  with  tarragon  or  with 
chenil,  S.  To  secure  a  slight  flavor  of  c^trong  herbs,  eniHlt  a  few  of  the 
fresh  leaves  in  a  mortar,  and  soak  them  in  a  little  oil,  which  may  then 
be  pressed  out  and  added  to  tlve  dresaing.    Herba  may  be  used  as  follows: 


666 


A  MANUAL  OF  UOME-MAKISG 


I 


Hummer  savory  or  thyme  in  a  green  salati  to  Im^  Hervwl  with  poulciy;  \ 
in  a  saiEui  to  be  served  with  Iamb  fir  mutton  or  on  a  larnh  rtr  muiloa  alai; 
sweet  marjoram  or  saffe  in  u  ^ula^J  servo<l  with  gceec  or  diickt$;  swnei  b^ 
in  a  Huhpi  of  fi.nh  or  I'larnii;  carawjiy,  bulrn,  or  cher\nl  muy  aJbmv  fw  uand 
9.  Add  €ho|j[M*tl  parHley,  chives,  cjiprrs,  or  j^reen  pep|x*r?».  H),  Add  U»*^ 
finely  chopped  white  of  a  hanl-cooke<l  egg,  or  the  yolk  put  t  hrouich  a  ivrxf. 
11.  Add  chutney  sauce,  catchup,  or  Chile  sauce.  12,  Add  Uibaj»ci>  or  Wiir- 
cesterahire  sauce,  Ki.  Add  ehet^f^%  sucli  n^  grated  Cheddar,  mmAiM 
Roquefort,  or  grated  Panutssan.    14,  Add  ciirr>'  jMiwder. 

Cream  dresHng, 

Two  dtandard  reci}>e8  for  cream  dressings  an-  ii»  foiiowii: 
Sour  cream  dressing  (for  cold  bfjiled  vegetables  and  tomi&toes) 

1  cup  thick  Hour  cream  (not  too  old) 

2  teaspoons  vinegar  1  teaspoon  su^ar 
1  teaspoon  salt                                   Daflh  of  cayenne  or  J^ 
Juice  J^  lemon  paprika 

Beat  the  ingredi(»nt-s  together  thoroughly. 
Sweet  cream  dressing  (for  vegetabk  or  fruit  salads) 

Pi  cup  heavy  cream  J 4  teaspoon  salt 

ij  tablespoons  vinegar  Cayenne  pepper  or  J^ 

paprika 

Beat  the  cream  until  it  m  stiff;  add  the  deaaomng^:  add  the; 
slowly,  and  continue  to  beat  until  the  ingredients  are  well  htmidcvi,     Fm 
tomato  salads  and  meat^,  fold  in  2  tabk^|>oonM  of  grat^l  horse^rmdjah  n>o<l. 

Mayannaiae  dressing. 

Suitable  for  egg  salad,  fish  or  meat  salad,  and  for  fruit  or  vegetable  1 
although  French  dressing  is  often  preferred  for  the  last  two* 

Recipe. 

1  cup  oil 
Yolk  of  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  vinegar 

or  lemon  juice 
Few  grains  cayenne 

If  onion  flavor  is  desired,  rub  a  bowl  with  a  freshly  cut  oniao  ar  a  * 
of  garlic.     Put  in  the  seasonings;,  and  mix  them  well.     Add  the 
amount  of  acid,  then  add  the  egg  yolk  antl  bt'at  the  mixture  well,     Adkl 
the  oil,  at  first  by  tablespoons  and  later  in  larger  quantities,  bfratioit  tlte_ 
mixture  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  after  each  addition,     When  all  tfc 
has  been  used^  arid  any  further  nectw.^ar>'  HoaiS^jnings,  an<l  In^ai  the  mixtu 
thomughly.    Cover  the  bowl  with  an  earthen  di^,  and  kee|i  it  ia  a  < 
place  until  it  is  needed. 


teMiMSV 


2/3  teaspoon  powdered  «ugar. 

if  desired 
2/3  teaspoon  salt 
2/3  teaspoon  mustard 


SALADS 


S67 


By  otldipg  the  acid  before  the  oil,  iho  egg  is  pnrtrally  curtUed  or  thick- 
ened, and  the  oil  may  be  lyJded  more  rapidly  thiin  by  ihe  older  method. 

MaynrmiiiHe  may  be  prcveiitefl  I  nun  st*paralinp^  anil  Tln'  i|uan(ily  may 
be  irirrrxs^Hl  willRiut  niattTuilly  iiltmiig  Iht*  flavor,  1)V  Ktirring  into  ii, 
after  it  is  rnixecl,  from  Ij'.i  to  J^  il8  bulk  of  tiot  conwfarrh  paste,  made  in 
the  following  way: 

2  tabk'SfXMin*  eomfltarch  1/3  cup  boiling  water 

1/3  cup  vinegar 

Add  the  vinegar  to  the  comstareh  in  an  enimjel  flaueepan,  stirring  the 
mixture  until  it  i«  Hmooth,  Add  the  boiling  water,  bring  the  mixture  to 
the  Ijoihug  point,  and  aimmer  it  gently  for  5  minutes,  OkjI  it  slightly,  and 
beat  the  degire<l  quantity  into  the  inayonnaiHe^  which  will  become  thicker 
and  hghter  in  color.    Chill  the  dressing  before  using  it. 

This  Ht^rch-pajBte  binding  is  g(XKl  for  iriodifying  the  execMssive  oily  flavor, 
to  which  some  persona  object.  It  may  also  be  usetl  to  conceal  the  flavor 
of  cottonseed,  com,  or  peanut  oil  for  f>erson8  who  have  become  accustomed 
to  oUve  oiL 

Varmtiofui  in  mayonnaiae  dressing, 

1.  The  number  of  m\v  egg-yolk«  in  the  original  dressing  may  be  in- 
creased, or  part  of  the  ^^olki*  iu*e<l  may  bo  raw  and  the  other  part,  hanl- 
cooketl  and  preased  thrfitigh  a  sieve.  When  several  egg-yolkn  are  used, 
somewhat  less  oil  will  l>e  rc^iuired,  antl  the  dri'i^.sing  will  Ik?  stiff  enough 
for  whipped  cream  or  the  t^tiJTly  beaten  white  of  egg  to  be  addetl  to  it  ju^t 
before  it  is  uswl.  Kxtm  salt  and  t>ther  8ea»s<jniug  should  Im*  addtnj  im 
required.  Wheii  harti-ct>oke<l  yolks  are  substituted  entirely  for  raw  yolk^s, 
the  result  [a  called  Ueinoulade  Hauce.  2.  For  Potato  Mayonnaise  use  the 
inside  of  a  small  freshly  baked  potato  in  place  of  egg-yolks.  Remove  it, 
mash  it,  and  add: 

1  teaspfion  mustard  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

I  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  powdered 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper  sugar,  if  dcdred 

Force  the  mixture  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  1  ttiblespoon  of  vinegar 
and  2/3  cup  of  oil  by  tjiblespoons,  iis  in  standanl  inayonfiaise,  3.  Use  thiek, 
alight ly  stmred  cream  in  place  of  a  part  of  the  oU.  4.  l^se  meltotl  butler 
in  place  of  a  part  of  the  oil  5.  For  fruit  salads,  use  powderetl  sugar,  ornit 
the  mustard  and  pepper,  and  use  lemon  juice  in  place  of  vinegar*  <3,  For 
White  Mayonnaise,  uae  a  smaller  quantity  of  egg-yolk;  substitute  lemon 
juice — w^hich  whitens  the  drt\^sing"for  vinegar.  Beat  id  whipi>eil  cream 
or  stiffly  beaten  egg-whites  just  before  using  the  dressing.  7,  Ffjr  Green 
Mayonnaii*e,  aiid  juice  pressed  from  fresh  leaves  of  spinach,  piu^ley, 
tamtgon*  or  other  sahul  herbs.  A  eombi nation  of  two  parts  of  water 
crt*s.s  and  one  part  of  parsley  is  parti eularly  goo*!,  Brctd<  the  grec^ns  in 
Iiieet?s,  pound  them  in  a  mortar  untd  they  are  thon>ughly  maeerat<vl;  then 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


tHiuwzi^  out  \hv  juice  IbiYuiKb  f"hpf»M<>-clo1h.  Artifieiul  vefrptAblo  enloiai 
muy  iilwo  bo  u««hL  8.  For  Ht^l  Mayoimabw*,  color  ihe  cJres^sing  wilU  Id 
(►r  pim<'nf4>s  rubbtMl  thmuKli  a  ^ne  siovi%  or  with  cooker  1  beef  jmn%  Kigfcly 
rfrlorod  fniil  juiclv  or  jLrlilii-ial  vc'getablo  tfiloringB.  il.  For  Horso-ndi^ 
Miiyoniiai>*i%  io  he  us<xl  with  meat  an^!  fish  sulaiKs,  add  about  3  t^kspOOtf 
of  grated  horse-radLnh,  or  the  same  amomil  of  prepared  horBo-rttdiah.  li 
the  latNT  <'aK(^,  Mqiiet'zo  out  the  vinegar  in  which  the  liorse-nwdiflli  w 
packetl,  ant!  uso  ir  instead  of  the^  plain  vinegar  in  the  dre^eing.  10.  Tv 
meat,  fish,  or  8l)cll-fish  salads,  to  1  cup  of  mayonnaise  add  2  table^icxiB 
each  of  olivf^  and  finely  choppef]  pickles.  11.  For  Mayonnaise  Taxtilt 
or  Sauce  Tartare^  U*  be  \m**l  whh  fish  and  ^hell-fish  salads,  friiri  frk 
seallope,  and  s^jft-sbeli  erabs,  add  onion  juiee  or  finely  chopped  onjomasd 
finely  chopped  cucumber  pickles,  cajwrs,  parsley,  and  olives,  12,  To  1  nip 
of  mayoBuaiiie,  atld  1 3^2  talileHixMjns  of  chutjicy  and  stir  the  mixture  ufilii 
it  ia  thoroughly  blended. 

Cooked  Bolad  dresmngs. 

Boiled  dreflsing  (for  vegetable  and  fruit  salads,  and  for  salmon  mbi] 


Recipe  I 
Yolks  of  3  i 
1/Ii  cup  sugar 
1  teaspoon  mustard 


K  ieaspoon  paprika 
ii  teaiq^oon  i<alt 
1  cup  vinegar 

Wiipped  cream 


Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  an<l  ii<l<l  to  them  the  other  ingredients  in 
order  given.  C^ook  the  nvixture  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  it  conjttand 
until  it,  is  smooth  and  thick.  This  dresvsing  will  keep  for  a  long  time  in  * 
cold  piace.  When  rea*ly  to  use  ihe  dressing,  mix  it  with  equal  part*  erf 
vvhippe<]  cream.  A  variation  pineapple  dressing  for  fruit  m^acto  may  be 
made  as  follows:  


P 


2eggs 

6  tablespoons  pineapple  juice 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

Recipe  IL 

4  tablespoons  sugar 
2H  teaspoons  mustard 
2  teaspoons  salt 
1 J4  tablespoons  flour 


1  ^  tablespoons  butter 

Salt 

Whipi>ed  cream 


1  }^  cups  milk 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter 
Pi  cup  vinegar 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 
Cayenne  pepper 


Mix  the  dry  ingre(,iienls  and  blend  with  them  Ji  ^^P  of  milk.  Heat  U 
remainder  of  the  milk  to  (he  boiling  point  ^  add  the  butler,  thicken  it  wrti 
the  tirst  mixture,  and  tioil  this  for  2  niinutes,  Cmil  the  mixture  slightly, 
adil  the  vinegar  graduallvt  and  pour  this  hot  hquid  cautioujaly  over  the 
Hlightly  beaten  egg,  stirring  it  constantly.     Cook  the  dressing  over  bol 


SALADS 


569 


water  until  it  thickens.  Cool  it  immediately  in  order  to  prevent  curdling, 
and  pour  it  into  a  scalded  glass  jar.  This  recipe  makes  more  than  a  pint 
of  rather  mild  dressing,  which  will  keep  for  a  long  time  in  a  cold  place. 

No  whipped  cream  need  be  added  to  the  dressing. 

For  lobster,  tuna-fish,  or  meat  salad,  omit  the  sugar  and  reduce 
the  milk  to  1  cup;  add  2  extra  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  a  little  more 
vinegar.  Thus  modified  the  dressing  haa  somewhat  the  consistency  of 
real  mayonnaise,  and  is  more  palatable  with  meat  salads  and  with  lobster 
and  tuna-fish  salads  than  is  the  sweetened  form.  For  fruit  salads,  omit 
the  mustard  and  the  butter,  and  replace  the  milk  with  thin  cream. 

Bacon  dressing. 

Use  the  fat  left  from  cooking  bacon  or  smoked  ham.  Heat  it,  and  strain 
it  through  fine  cheesecloth,  if  there  is  much  sediment.  Use  two  parts 
of  fat  to  one  part  of  vinegar,  thicken  it  slightly  with  flour  and  water  well 
blended,  and  cook  the  mixture  for  a  few  minutes  to  remove  the  raw  taste 
of  the  flour.  This  dressing  is  generally  served  hot  on  dandelion,  cabbage, 
and  other  green  salads.   It  is  a  good  salad  dressing  for  use  on  camping  trips. 


CHAFfEU  XXXIl 


DESSERTS 


By  Wixifred  Moses 


i 


In  planning  a  well-balanced  men!  the  dessert  must  }ye 
sideredf  f)ecMiLse  if  it  is  lUHed  at  all  it  plays  a  part  in  the  nutritr 
scheme  of  the  mea!.     It  may  be  iis  simple  as  fresh  fruit  or 
complex  its  phmi  jHidding,  and  the  correet  choice  determines 
siiecess  of  the  meal  l>oth  in  nutritive  vakie  and  in  palatability. 
If  the  main  part  of  the  meal  is  made  up  of  less  hearty  foods,  t 
dessert  may  well  be  a  heavy  one,  sneh  as  steamed  pudding  wii 
hard  saiieci  or  pie.    If  the  other  eoiirses  are  heavy,  however, 
lif2:ht  deBHert  Hueli  as  fruit  or  fruit  sherbet  may  he  the  best  choii 

Battel's  and  doughs  and  e^gs  mixtures  arc  discussed  elsewhere. 
Other  desserts  will  be  briefly  considered  in  this  chapter. 

FRUITS 

FruitB  may  l>e  serv^etl  alone  aa  dessert,  fresh  or  cooked » 
or  cold.    A  combination  of  fntits  may  be  used  for  variety 
flavor  or  color. 

GELATIN   DESSERTS 

General  directions  for  making  gelatin  desserts  are  as  foUov 

(I)  Soak  the  gelatin  in  about  four  limos  its  meafnire  of  c?ald  liquid 
from  3  to  5  minutes*^  or  until  it  l»  softencid;  (2)  dissolve  it  hv  pourinR  the  I 
ing  liquid  ovt-r  it;  or  in  hiis\(>n  the  pmccsa  set  tke  geUitiu  und  cold  liqu 
over  boiling  water  to  diss(^ive:  (3)  iwld  t Ik* sugar  to  (be  lint  nuxture,  stir 
it  until  it  is  dlsHokeii;  (4)  add  the  fniit  jui{'e  or  other  flnvormg;  (5)  turn] 
immediately  into  a  wet  niulil,  .an<»w  it  to  eiM*!  und  plm-e  ii  near  iee  to  stiffs 
((■))  if  a  foamy  jelly  Ia  desirotl,  before  fHiurinj^  (he  mixture  into  the  mn 
allow  it  to  rool  anfl  begin  to  stiiTen,  then  beat  it  well  with  a  wire  whieS 
before  pniiring  it  inio  tluMvct  nmld;  (7)  if  fruit  Ls  lo  he  u.s*mI,  allow  the  jelly 
to  begin  to  stiffen  before  addiiig  it  in  order  that  tt  may  be  misceii  ever' 
thrtiughout  the  jelly,  or  it  may  be  addeii  in  layt-^rs  by  uUowing  one 

£70 


DESSERTS 


571 


of  jelly  to  Btiffen,  adding  a  layer  of  fruit,  pouring  over  tlib  morn*  of  the 
jelly  mixture  that  has  \n^n  kept  wano^  and  allowiaj?  this  layer  to  slifTen 
before  addinR  more  fruity  (S)  1  tablespoon  of  gelatin  will  sHfTi'U  about  I 
pint  of  liquid. 

Sponge<^  and  Bamnan  creams. 

To  make  sfKjnges  antl  Bavarian  creiims,  when  the  jelly  has 
hegun  to  stiffen,  beaten  whites  of  eggs  or  whipped  t-rc-am  should 
be  added,  and  the  mixture  beaten  to  a  froth.  For  a  slightly  dif- 
ferent texture,  the  jelly  should  he  I)eiite!i  to  a  froth,  and  the 
beaten  cgg-whrte.s  or  the  wlvipped  eream  lightly  folthxl  in. 
The  mixture  should  then  be  turned  into  a  wet  mold  and 
chilled. 

Charlottes, 

Charlottes  are  combinations  of  cake  with  wiiipped  cream  or 
Bavarian  creams  or  sponges.  Tims  the  sugi^estions  for  making 
sponges  and  Bavarian  creams  apply  to  charlottes  also.  Bread 
dipped  in  melted  butter  may  be  siii>stituled  for  the  cake.  Fruit 
sauces  may  be  used  instead  of  the  whipped  cream  or  the  gelatin 
filling;  the  dish  may  be  garnished  with  jelly,  jam,  or  nuts,  and 
served  with  a  hard  sauce. 


W^HIPPED   CREAM 

In  whipping  cream,  only  cream  containing  at  least  20  per 
cent  of  butter-fat  should  be  used,  and  25  to  40  per  cent  is  better* 
Cream  from  twelve  to  twenty-four  houm  old  is  best  to  use  in 
order  that  a  small  amount  of  lactic  acid  may  have  developed. 
The  cre^m  should  be  held  at  as  low  a  t(*mperature  as  possible, 
35**  to  45°  F.,  for  two  hom-s  before  whipping  and  should  be 
whipptKl  in  a  cool  room,  and  cold  utensils  used. 

The  use  of  viscogen  makes  it  possible  to  whip  fresher,  thin- 
ner, or  warmer  cream  than  ia  otherwise  advisable.  It  is  made  of 
25-2  parts  of  sugar,  5  parts  of  water,  and  ^/lo  part  of  milk  of  lime. 
The  ingretlients  are  mixed  thoroughly  and  allowed  to  stand  24 
hours  lief  ore  being  used.  The  mixture  is  use<J  in  the  pjx> 
portion  of  1  tcaspoonful  to  2  cups  of  cream.  It  is  in  no  wise 
harmful. 


572 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Syllabubs,  or  whips. 

For  8yllal>u1j8,  or  whips,  whippod  cream  should  be 
as  desired,  and  sweetened  by  adding  j^ifted  powdered 
gradually  in  the  proportion  of  about  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  to  1 
pint  of  cream.  It  is  then  drainef!  and  put  near  the  ice  until  tinif 
to  serve.  It  should  l>e  piled  lightly  in  a  gla^  dish,  and  gamisbed 
with  fryits,  nuts,  or  colored  sugars. 

Cold  steamed  rice  or  dr>'  cake  or  cookie  crumbs  may  be  beai 
Hghtly  into  tlve  whipped  cream,  and  the  dish  may  be  gamisl 
with  a  reil  cherry  or  red  jelly. 


1 


JUNKET 

One  junket  tablet  will  slilTeii  abrmt  I  quiirt  of  milk.  (1)  Crush  ' 
tablet  and  dinsolve  it  in  cold  miik;  (2)  heat  the  remaining  milk^  etirnniel 
oonKtimtly,  to  atjout  100*^  F.;  a  simple  ti«t  for  this  teinperature,  whicJil 
about  that  of  the  body,  l»  to  let  a  drop  of  milk  fall  on  the  inside  of  t 
wmt  and  if  there  is  no  sensation  of  heat  or  cold,  the  temperature  of  l 
milk  about  corn^i^punds  with  that  of  the  IxKly;  (3)  add  the  sugar, 
flavoring,  and  the  dii'solved  junket  tablet,  stirring  the  mixture 
(4)  turn  the  mixture  into  wei  ntoUts,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  worm  phiceiiQ 
it  atifTens,  then  chill  it.  Junket  may  be  Mcrved  with  whipped  crtsam,  fn 
or  fruit  sauceSp  nutSp  or  preaerved  ginger. 

FROZEN    DESSERTS 

Water  ices. 

Water  ices  are  fruit  juices  sweetened,  diluted  with 

and  frozen. 

FrappSs, 

Frapp^s  are  iees  made  of  fruit  juiee,  water,  and  sugar,  Ir 
to  the  consistency  of  mush. 

Sherbets, 

Sherbets  are  water  ices  to  which  have  been  added  a  smalt 
quantity  of  dissolved  gelatin  or  beaten  whiter  of  eggs.  They 
may  be  made  of  one  fruit  juice  or  a  combination.  The  juice 
of  one  lemon  18  generally  added  to  each  quart  of  the  mixture 
in  order  to  accentuate  the  flavor  of  the  other  fruit.  Sometime 
no  water  is  addfid  to  the  fruit  juice. 


DESSERTS 


573 


Sorbets. 

Sorbets  nre  a  kind  of  frozen  pimch  or  water  ice  to  which 
various  kinds  of  fruit  are  added. 

Granites, 

Granites  are  water  ices  to  which  fruit  is  addol  after  the  freez- 
ing. 

Ice  crea7ms* 

Plain  ice  cream  is  generally  made  of  thin  cream,  scalded  or 
not,  as  desired,  sweetened,  flavored,  and  frozen.  Whole  eggs 
or  yolk.s  of  eggs  may  be  used  to  make  a  custard  which  is  then 
frozen.  When  cream  is  not  plentiful,  four  part«  of  milk  and  one 
part  of  double  cream  may  Ijc  jclhcil  with  junket  tablets  (page  572) 
and  used.  Eggs  may  be  used  with  skim-milk  in  place  of  cream. 
Arrowroot,  cornstarch,  or  flour  is  sometimes  used  in  place  of 
some  of  the  eggs.  It  should  be  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk  or 
cream,  and  cooked  for  10  mirmtes,  being  stirred  constantly, 
before  lieing  addeil  to  the  eggs  and  sugar.  If  fruit  is  used,  it 
should  be  crushed,  mixed  with  the  necessary  amount  of  sugar, 
preferably  in  the  form  of  sirup,  and  allowed  to  stand  for  1  hour. 
It  is  then  added  to  the  partly  frozen  cream.  Strawberries  and 
peaches  may  l)e  put  through  a  potato  ricer.  Berries,  like  rasp- 
berries, should  be  passed  through  a  fine  sieve.  Fruit  flavors 
are  consitlered  by  some  persons  not  to  harmonize  well  with 
eggs,  and  are  therefore  not  used  in  custard  creams. 

F'or  each  quart  of  the  mixture  to  be  frozen,  any  of  the  fol- 
lowing flavorings  may  be  used:  IH  squares  Baker's  chocolate; 
14  f^up  pi-epared  cocoa;  1  tablespoon  vanilla;  2  cups  orange 
juice ;  Va  quart  can  of  pineapple. 

A  smooth,  velvety  texture  is  desired  in  ice  creams,  rather 
than  a  coarse-grained  mass  of  crystals.  Texture  is  influenced 
by:  (1)  The  amount  of  butter-fat  present.  The  richer  the 
cream,  the  smoother  is  the  product,  (2)  The  rapidity  of  freez- 
ing.   If  frozen  rapidly,  the  cream  %vill  be  coarse  and  full  of  large 

♦  For  further  infonnutioti  on  expcTmient^  in  freezinpj  ice  cream,  ^ee 
Bull  155,  Vt.  Exp.  Sta. 


574  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

water  crj-'stals.  (3)  Tho  amount  of  whipping  rtitrinj^  fi 
The  air  thus  incorporated  produces  a  tight,  smooth,  ci 
consistency.  In  properly  made  ice  cream,  the  water  fi 
in  very  fine  crystals  interspei*st»d  with  minute  })ubbl6e  of 
It  should  contain  from  33  to  40  per  cent  of  air.  (4)  This  igecf 
the  cream.  Cream  fresh  from  the  Hcparator  or  pasteuiilff 
produces  a  coarse-grained  ice  cream.  Cream  that  is  12 
hours  old,  held  at  32-35*^  F.,  makes  a  sraootli  mixture  iri» 
frozen. 

Frozen  puddings. 

Frozen  pudtfings  are  ice  ci'eams  made  of  thin  eream  or  tlun 
cream  and  e^g-yolks^  highly  flavored  and  eon  twining  manj 
preserved  fruits  and  nuts.    They  are  generally  molded  in  mdm 

molds,  lined  with  lady-fi^ngers. 


enoM 


A  mousse  may  be  made  in  either  of  two  ways:  (1)  heavy  < 

may  be  beaten  until  stifT,  drained,  sweetenetl.  and  flavored; 
or  (2)  the  whip  from  thin  cream  may  be  folded  into  a  mixture 
stiffened  with  gelatin.  Mousses  are  placet!  in  molds,  and  packed 
for  3  hours  In  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt.  Sherbets  are  frr* 
quently  combined  with  them  either  as  the  lining  of  the 
or  as  a  layer  of  filling* 


Par f aits  ^  biscuits,  and  souffles. 

For  a  parfait,  biscuit,  or  souffle,  yolks  of  eji;p:s  are  cooked 
sirup  to  a  thick  smooth  cream »    The  mixture  is  then  fla>j 
and  l>eaten  until  it  is  cold  and  h^^ht,  and  mixed  with  dratfied 
whipped  cream.    It  is  then  poured  into  a  mold  and  packed  m 
ice  and  salt  for  3  or  4  hours  according  to  the  size  of  the  makL 
Parfaits  are  not   sohd  like  cnistard  ice  creams;   they   hav^  <fl 
spongy  texture.    They  should  not  be  frozen  Ukj  hard.  ■ 

Biscuits  take  their  name  from  their  siz&f  lieing  in   reality 
parfaits  frrizen  in  individual  forms. 

Soufflfe  are  parfaits  reinforced  with  gelatin  and  a  larger  i 
portion  of  liquid  and  frozen  in  80uifl6  dishes. 


DESSERTS 


Freezing, 

(U  Put  tht*  ire*  in  a  strong  cloth  or  bag,  and  with  n  wooden  mallet  pound 
it  fairly  fine.    The  finer  the  ice,  the  more  qyiekly  will  Ihe  mixture  fretVie. 
Snow  may  l>e  usi^l  insteful  of  ice.    (2)  Usi?  coiuse  salt  and  ire  in  the  pni- 
portion  of:  1  part  of  salt  U\  1  part  of  iee,  for  moxLHse  and  parfait;  1  part  of 
salt  to  from  1  to  3  parts  of  ice  for  f rap|>^  and  ice;  I  part  of  salt  to  from  1  ia . 
15  part^^  of  ice  for  ice  cream.    The  larger  the  proportion  of  ice  to  salt,  the ' 
Blower  will  be  the  freexing  and  the  finer  the  grain.    Fine  salt  dis-solves  more 
readily  than  coarse,  and  consequently  pmducew  a  lower  temperature  more 
fiuickly;  but  it  tcntb  to  fonn  crusts?  an<l  bridges  which  prevent  the  ice 
from  Mottling  in  place  and  fitting  amund  the  freezer.    (3)  Fill  the  can  two- 
thirdn  full.     (4)   Place  the  can,  which  hiis  been  washed  with  m>ap  and 
wahr  sc>ttltlecl,  and  cajoled,  in  the  freezer,  and  adjust  the  crank.    Turn  the 
crank  to  see  that  it  is  in  place,     (o)  Place  the  freezer  in  a  dishpan,  and  i 
(H»t  the  dishpan  ort  a  towe!  to  keep  it  from  slipping  and  to  deaden  the  sound. 
Sprr*ad  piifiers  on  the  fl*xjr  to  protect  it  frtnn  ice  anfl  aalt  that  may  be 
droppe<l.     (ti)  Fill  the  freezer  half  full  of  ice,  and  add  a  layer  of  salt,  using 
a  long-handlcfl  sfxion.    Add  more  ice  and  more  salt  in  layer??,  placing  salt, 
near  the  top  so  that  on  disjudving  it  may  trickle  over  the  ice.     If  «now^ 
m  use<i,  pour  in  1  cup  of  water  after  the  freezer  is  packed.    (7)  Turn  the 
crank  until  the  mixture  is  stiff.    In  fri^eging  water  ices  it  is  considcrcil  w\- 
visable  by  some  persons  to  turn  the  crank  for  5  minutes,  to  stop  for  5 
ndnut*^,  to  turn  it  tigain  for  5  minutes,  and  Ui  continue  in  this  way  until 
the  freezing  is  completed.    Do  not  draw  off  the  salt  water  while  freezing 
the  mixture  uxdess  the  t^alt  water  ijtaiids  so  high  that  there  is  danger  of 
ita  getting  in  the  can. 

Packing. 

(1)  When  the  mixture  i.?  frozen,  take  off  the  crank;  (2)  wipe  the  lid  of 
the  can  (*ar(*full>',  and  make  -surt^  that  the  ice  and  salt  are  well  below  tho 
lid;  (3)  lift  off  the  lid  antl  take  out  the  patldle;  (4)  fruit  or  whipped  cream 
should  be  addeti  at  this  time  if  they  are  t43  be  used;  (5)  with  a  sfKH>ii  i>rJ 
spatula,  pack  tlown  the  cr<^anj,  a  potato-masher  being  used  to  make  the 
maaa  compact;  (())  replace  the  lid  and  put  a  cork  in  the  hole;  (7)  draw  <ifF 
the  water;  (H)  pack  the  can  as  de^crilxnl  for  freesiing;  (9)  cover  the  free/iT 
with  a  heavy  cloth,  and  let  it  stand  from  1  to  3  ho^irs  before  using  if  ptw!- 
«ible,  to  develop  the  flavor;  (10)  look  at  it  occasionally  to  see  that  the 
water  does  not  rise  above  the  opening.  If  properly  watched  and  repacked, 
tlie  cream  can  be  kept  for  any  reasonable  length  of  time* 


CHAPTER  XXXIII 

SUGAR  COOKERY  • 

By  Mary  F.  Henry 

Success  in  suRar  ef>nkor>%  as  in  all  other  eooker>% 
intelligent  work  and  to  work  intelligently  means  that  one  musi 
understand  the  nature  of  the  materials  used,  the  changes  (hai 
occur  during  the  process  of  cooking^  and  the  comliiions 
bring  about  desiralile,  and  prevent  undesii-able,  ehanKes. 
behavior  of  sugar  under  different  conditions  largely  det 
the  quality  of  the  product. 

Kinds  of  sugar. 

While  there  are  many  diffei-ent  kinds  of  sngar»  thrive  of  in* 
teretst  to  the  housekeeper  are  of  two  cUisses:  iti  the  one  g^roufi 
the  familiar  granulated  cane  or  beet  sugar,  maple  atif^r^  am 
brown  sugar;  in  the  other  is  ghicose»  commonly  known  in  th 
form  of  a  clear,  sticky  sirup,  f 'orn  sirup  consists  of  a  niixtun^ 
glucose  with  dext fines  and  other  substances.  IVfoIassi^  oon 
tains  large  amounts  of  cane  sugar.  These  two  cliisses  of  sugf^ 
differ  greatly  in  characteristics.  Sugars  belonging  to  the  Sfst 
class  are  very  sweet  and  crystallize  in  large  crystals,  with  which 
all  are  familiar;  glucose  is  less  sweet,  and  either  cr>*stalii2es  less 
easily  in  much  finer  crystals  or  remains  as  a  hea\^  sirup 
creamy  consistency.  In  certain  kinds  of  candy,  this  cream 
texture  is  one  of  the  requisites.  The  fact  that  in  the  process 
cooking  it  is  [jossible  to  change  a  part  of  the  crystalline  &n^^ 
into  glucose  with  its  finer  texture  is  one  of  the  chief  f;u^tors 
making  candy*  The  whole  problem  of  preventing  the  forniati 
of  the  undesirable  granules,  or  ciystals,  is  simply  to  conv 
some  of  the  crystalline  sugar  to  glucose  and  to  avoid  contlitiotid 
tlmt  may  cause  candy  to  grain. 

•KoL'ping  ChristmiLs.    Cornell  Hi*ailiiiK-Cmii8e  far  the  Fann   Ifomr 
UuU.  97. 


i 


576 


^ 


SUGAR  COOKERY 

How  to  mak^  camiy  fitic-g rained. 

Whiln  tho  simple  boiling  of  su^ar  l)rings  almut  to  some  extent 
this  desired  change  of  nysialliiie  sugar  to  ghn'ose,  the  addition 
of  a  hUle  acid,  such  as  cream-tjMartar,  greatly  hastens  tJie  proc- 
ess. It  is  possible  to  get  the  same  result  by  substituting  glucose 
for  a  part  of  the  sugar  in  the  fii'st  place. 

Overcooking,  that  is,  cooking  J>eyond  the  correct  temperature, 
causes  graininp:,  for  ghicose  contains  more  water  than  does 
crystalline  sugar,  and  overcooking  drives  off  the  water  and  forces 
the  glucose  to  go  buck  to  sugar. 

A  crystal  of  sugar  falling  into  the  solution  may  cause  the  whole 
mass  to  crystallize.  Hence  care  must  be  taken  not  to  allow 
crystals  to  be  carried  up  to  the  sitle  of  the  pan  and  fall  back  into 
the  mixture.  Washing  down  these  crystals  carefully  with  a 
swab  prevents  trouble  from  this  source. 

Stirring  the  mixture  while  it  is  cooking  may  cause  crystalliza- 
tion,  especially  in  the  case  of  fondant,  which  contains  only  sugar 
and  water*  When  milk  is  used,  it  is  necessary  to  stir  the  mix- 
ture o(*casionally  to  prevent  itii  sticking  to  the  pan.  There  is  not 
the  danger,  however,  of  graining  in  this  case,  for  milk  and  erofim 
both  tend  to  prevent  crystallization.  Stirring  the  mixture  while 
it  is  hot  or  cooling  it  too  suddenly  may  cause  crystallization. 

Temperature. 

Another  prol>lem  is  one  that  concerns  the  length  of  time  for 
cooking  sugar  mixtures.  It  is  well  known  that  when  sugar  la 
heated  with  water  a  sirup  is  formed.  If  the  lieating  process  is 
continued,  water  is  driven  off  as  steam,  and  the  sirup  becomes 
thicker,  or  more  concentrated.  As  the  concentration  increases, 
the  temperature  rises. 

The  stage  of  concentration  to  which  the  solution  ie  to  be 
boiled  depends  on  tlie  kind  of  prcxiuct  that  is  to  be  made.  The 
terms  thread,  soft  ball,  hard  liall,  crack,  hard  crack,  and  caramel 
are  used  to  distinguish  the  different  stages.  While  the  orduiary 
method  used  by  amateurs  for  testing  candy  consists  in  dropping 
a  little  of  tlie  solution  into  cold  water,  more  uniform  and  accurate 
results  may  be  obtained  by  the  use  of  a  thermometer.    A  glass 


L 


578 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


thermonieter  may  be  bought  at  a  drug  store  for  nbout  tl 
In  using  a  t  liermonaeter,  rare  should  b(»  taken  t  hat  the  bttib  » 
entirely  covored  by  the  sirup  and  that  it  does  ii€3t  nsadi  ihr 
bottom  of  the  kettle;  if  the  bulb  h  exposed  to  the  air  or  toiidis 
the  metal  of  the  pan,  the  reg:istered  temperature  is  lower  tn  thf 
one  case  and  higher  in  the  other  than  is  the  actual  tempemtunr 
of  the  sirup. 

In  the  absence  of  a  thermometer,  however,  the  test  alreKhr 
mentioned,  dropping  a  little  of  the  )>oihng  simp  into  cold  water, 
may  be  used  with  comparatively  gmxl  results.  The  faUofrtni 
table  gives  the  different  stages  of  concent mtion,  the  eorrespoml- 
ing  temfx^ratures,  and  the  tests  that  may  l>e  used  to  detc 
the  condition  of  (he  sirup.  The  temperatures  refer  to  a 
made  from  cane  sugar.  When  glucose  or  com  sirup  m  used 
part,  the  same  consistencies  are  reached  at  lower  tempemti 

TABLE  LIL— Determination  or  Stages  m  StrcAa  Cook^rt 


Stage 

TempemlMr^ 

Tc^i                                   1 

Threati 

230° 

F. 

Simp  forms  a  thread  when  dn>|]peil  fran 

110** 

(J. 

a  spoon 

Softball 

2^"" 

F. 

Sirup  fonns  a  eoft  hall  wh<m  dfoppod  bio 

v\r 

C. 

cold  water 

Hard  baU  . 

252** 

F. 

Sirup  fomi.^  a  bard  ball  when  drtjfyped  inl* 

122** 

C. 

oold  waiCT 

Crack  ..... 

270"* 

F. 

Sirup  b<?comc»  britUe  when  drupp^  «&*« 

132^ 

C. 

cold  water 

Hard  crack 

293** 

F. 

Simp  I>ecomc«  very  britUe  wbeii  choppod 

145** 

C. 

into  cold  wat<?r 

Caramel 

310"  4- 

F. 

Sirup  chanicGi^  color  and  becomes  very  haitt 

154"  + 

C. 

and  brittle  when  cool 

Vtenmls, 

Granite  utensils  usually  give  better  result,*!  than  do  tho^e 
aluminum  or  tin,  because  granite  ware  is  not  so  good  a  coriduetc 
of  heat,  and  hence  the  temperature  is  more  ea.siiy  reguIateU. 

Wooden  spoons  are  pi*oferal>!e  to  metal  onet^,  for  wood  dc 
not  conduct  heat  a«  does  metal.    Moreover,  the  sirup  does  not^ 
tend  to  stick  to  wood  as  much  as  to  met44L 


CHAPTER  XXXIV 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 

If  foods  are  to  be  kept  successfully  f  mm  one  season  to  another, 
it  is  necessary  to  have  as  nearly  aa  possilile  exact  knowledge  of 
the  conditions  that  interfere  witii  their  preservation.  This 
statement  refers  not  ordy  to  fruits  and  vegetables  that  are 
pickled^  preservtHl  with  sujijar,  or  put  up  in.  cans,  but  to  other 
foods,  such  as  apples,  winter  ve|?etables,  and  eggs — foods  that 
do  not  need  to  be  kept  indefinitely  but  that  should  f>e  given  a 
longer  season  of  usefulness. 

There  are  two  main  causes  for  the  spoiling  of  foods:  first,  the 
presence  of  small  living  organisms  that  feed  on  the  foods  and 
change  them  so  that  they  may  cease  to  be  desirable  and  may 
even  l>ecome  harmful;  second,  the  normal  occurrence  in  such 
foods  as  fruits,  vegetables,  eggs,  meat,  and  seeds  of  all  plants, 
of  certain  substances  which,  although  not  alive,  are  the  prmlucts 
of  living  things  and  have  the  power  of  causing  fruit  to  ripen, 
seeds  to  start  growing,  meat  to  soften,  antl  all  finally  to  decay. 

Any  food  in  which  the  life  processes  are  still  going  on  is  sub- 
ject to  either  of  the  types  of  changes  just  described.  Yeast 
plants  or  bacteria  may  live  on  foods  and  cause  them  to  spoil. 
Bacteria,  yeasts,  and  molds  grow  ever>^where — on  the  ground,  in 
w^ater,  and  in  air.  All  micro-organisms  need  warmth,  moisture, 
food,  and  oxygen  for  growth.  Warmth,  moisture,  light,  and 
oxygen  also  favor  the  maturing,  ripening,  and  decay  changes 
occurring  in  eggs,  meat,  fresh  fruits,  and  vegetables. 

If  food  is  to  l>e  kept  for  any  length  of  time,  it  is  necassary  to 
retard  or  prevent  natural  ripening  or  <leveloping  processes  and 
to  protect  tfie  foo<l  from  invasion  i>y  invisible  as  well  as  visible 
enemies.  Metliods  of  foo<l  preservation  may  be  groupi?il  as 
follow^sr  (1)  By  means  of  low  temperature;  (2)  the  removal  of 
moisture;  (3)  preservatives;  (4)  iiigh  temperature* 

679 


680 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


A  temperature  even  as  low  as  the  freezinp;  jK>jnt  of  water  mty 

not  kill  micro-organisms  nor  destroy  in  suvh  foods  as  fruiu  axii) 
vegetables  the  mibstancci^  that  ripen  and  mature  them*  Such 
a  temperature  does,  however^  retard  or  check  all  life  prcxcBtnK 
and  therefore  it-s  use  is  a  highly  efficient  methocJ  of  k-  '  un%\^ 
during  limit tM:l  periods  of  time.    Refrigeration  anil  •  ^rsp 

on  a  commercial  scale  are  not  discussed  hen:%  hut  storage  it 
moderately  low  temperatures  that  is  practicaljle  for  the  aveni^ 
home  is  descrit>ed. 

When  foods  are  dried  until  their  water-content  is  r^ui 
below  20  per  cent,  micro-organisms  are  not  likely  to  develop  i 
them.     When  foods  are  drit^cl,  the  micro-organiams  orifcina 
present  are  not  destroyt^l,  hut  their  growth  and  muUiplic^atj' 
are  checked.    If  nioLsture  is  supplied,  active  life  quickly  lic^nt! 
again. 

The  word  preserv^ative  eovers  a  wide  range  of  substances  thai^ 
are  used  in  food  preservation  to  retard  or  prevent  the  rto^ 
of  micro-organisms.    Foods  con  tain  ing  any  sul >stance  siifBciitutl; 
active  to  destroy  or  check  the  growth  of  micro-organisms  sh 
be  at  least  thoroyghly  questioned  lief  ore  being  used.     Pre^^^ 
ative  substances  may  be  divided  into  three  classes;  (1)  th< 
known  to  be  harmless,  sueli  a.s  sugar,  salt,  vinegar,  and  spv 
(2)  those  about  which  there  is  doubt,  6u<'h  as  saltpeter,  8nioki 
and  liquid  smoke;  (3)  those  known  (o  be  hannfiib  sueh  ag  Ih>i 
acid  and  the  l>orates,  salicylic  arid  and  the  salieylati?®,  ben 
acid  and   the  benzoates,  sulfunjus  acid  and  the  sulfites,  and 
fonnaldehyde. 

The  IJiitH  States  Department  of  Agriculture  ha«  i8BUcci  the 
following  statement  concerning  the  use  of  canning  powficr^ 
The  pansibility  of  harmful  effects  from  these  suhstanceB  is  still 
not  fully  recognizetl  by  many  housekeepers. 

**Thc  att<?ntioti  of  the  DepiirtTneni  of  Agriculture  has  reoeiitljr  hmm 
called  tfi  the  widespread  u«c,  oRpccinlly  \n  rur^  communities,  of  aiiSosrlb 
ftcid  in  putting  up  preserves.  Th»*  Df^purtmrnt  i»  aware  tliat.  this  prMrtiBiy 
i»  not  confinefi  to  salicylic  acid  under  it.>^  own  name  alone,  tiiii  lliai  Iduv** 
quantities  of  this  licid,  ami  uf  U»rir,  acid  ai«  vvi*ll,  are  sold  under  fjinaCtal 
lliitnc«  iis  prtftw^nnnjt  powders  or  naaning  compound*  at  prices  whieli 
tDUch  in  excess  of  iheir  real  value.    In  the  directions  for  use,  the 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


581 


is  ti^lfl  to  fill  thi»  Jar  with  the  fmit  or  vej^etables,  cover  wiih  water,  and 
tuid  a  teiLsiHwinfiil  of  the  p<jwiler.  It  ih  tnie  that,  thwo  powders  may  pre- 
vi'iit  the  th't-ay  of  tht'  fniii  nr  vcj^tMablf,  hut  they  also  €*ruxnirage  uncleanly 
orcareleB8  work,  and  their  exces^sive  use  may  he  attendee!  with  very  serious 
effects  on  the  health.  Salicyiic  acid  is  a  ine<licirie  of  the  greatest  value  in 
acute  articular  rheuraatism  and  certain  othtT  diiic^ades-  It  is  well  known 
aii  a  poisonous  subfltance,  and  one  of  the  evils  which  may  accompany  its 
use  is  deratif^ement  of  the  digestion.  It  m  therefore  plain  that  it«  extensive 
UHv  in  fiMHi  may  leatl  to  disturbance  of  digest  ion  and  of  health.  It  Is  entirely 
pniclicable  to  put  tip  both  fruitj^  and  vegetables  in  such  a  manner  that 
Ihey  will  keep  indefinitely  by  sterilizing  the  productJi  by  means  of  heat, 
and  there  is  no  excuse  for  running  any  risk  by  the  use  of  preserving 
powders." 

A  temperature  as  high  as  that  of  boiling  water  is  destructive 
to  the  vitality  of  both  micro-orgiuiisins  and  the  foods  on  which 
they  may  occur.    This  fact  is  the  corner  stone  of  canning. 

PRESERVATION  OF  FOOD  BY  LOW  TEMPERATtJRES 

Preservation  of  eggs* 

Eggs  should  lit?  preserved  daring  March^  April,  May,  and 
June,  when  the  production  is  greatest  and  the  price  lowest. 
Spring  eggs  will  keep  better  than  summer  or  fall  eggs*  Only 
aljsolutely  fresh  eggs  shoukl  lie  preserved  (see  page  534).  In- 
fertile eggs  are  better  than  fertile  ones  for  preser\ing.  Dirty 
eggs  or  eggs  that  have  l>een  washttl  shoukl  not  l>e  preserved. 

Of  the  many  ways  of  preserving  eggs  in  the  household,  a 
water-glass  solution  seems  to  give  the  best  results.  Earthen- 
ware jars  are  the  most  suitable  vessels  to  use.  Danger  of  loss 
through  the  presence  of  one  Imd  egg  is  reduced  by  using  several 
small  instea<l  of  one  large  vessel  Eggs  should  not  be  left  in 
the  presen-'ative  longer  tlian  one  year.  The  sfimc  liquid  pre- 
servative shoukl  not  Ijc  u^ed  more  than  one  year.  If  the  solu- 
tion eva^iorates  and  becomes  thick  and  jel!y-hke,  water  should 
be  fukletL  Eggs  shoidd  l>e  rinseil  in  clear  water  when  they  are 
taken  from  the  water-glass  soKition.  They  will  generally  re- 
main good  for  about  two  weeks  after  l>eing  removed  from  the 

•  C*<»fidc»Tised  fmm  Pre^ervaHoTi  of  K^s^,  by  Earl  W.  Benjamin  in  Cornell 
Rea<ling-(k»urse  for  the  Fanu  Home,  BulL  21 


682  A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


pr^ervative,  but  the  sooner  they  are  usedi  the  l>ett€sr. 
is  tlesircHl  to  boil  thorn,  a  sTii:ilI  bole  should  he  pricked  tl 
the  luirgc  end  of  tlie  .sliell  befoii*  they  arc  placr<^f  n»  the 
in  order  to  prevent  their  breaking  when  heated . 

To  use  underclass  sduthn  (for  tliirty  dozen  egg^) : 
(1)  Mix  thoroughly  IH  quart*  of  oommercial  water-glaaei 
IS  c|unrtfi  of  (Kjiiinl  water;  (2)  pack  clean  eg^  into  clean 
or  tight  odorless  tubs,  two  G-gallon,  or  three  4-^aIloEi  jarn  betn^ 
for  preserving  thirty  ^lozen  eggs;  (3)  cover  the  f-gga  with  the  wl 
mixture,  and  if  the  solution  rlm^  not  covrr  the  e^^s^  at  leaact  3  ii 
much  as  5  adtUtional  quart.-*  of  water  may  be  abided  for  eftch  l)f 
of  commprrial  water-glass  sokition  used;  (4)  cover  the  jars  to 
evaporation:  (5)  keep  the  c-ggs  in  a  cool  dark  place. 

Presermiion  of  butter  (E.  8.  Guthrie). 

Butter  ran  be  laid  down  during  the  sumnaer  season  t4)  gmi 
eatisfaetory  supply  for  winter  use.  Sweet  cream  of  good  qtmliqr 
should  be  useib  It  shoultl  lie  pasteurised  by  keeping  the  cok 
tainer  in  hot  water  for  30miiuUesat  a  temperature  of  145* F. 
The  cream  should  be  stirretJ  fretjuently  during  the  proc«B.  b 
should  then  be  eooleti  to  approximately  .50*^  F,  It  i^  importiuit 
that  the  Initter  should  he  nuuli*  from  sweet  cream  rather  tbin 
from  sour  eream,  since  the  keeping  quality  of  sweet-cream  butter 
is  lietter.  This  cream  shoo  hi  be  chiu'ned  in  the  usual  way,  and 
the  butter  should  contain  the  tisual  amount  of  salt.  It  tn^j  bt 
packed  solid  in  stone  jars,  or  it  may  be  made  into  pound  pri« 
and  packed  in  jai-s,  either  with  or  without  the  reguhir 
ment  pajjcr  wrappers.  The  jars  should  he  thorougldy  i«i*aklfd 
and  free  from  taint  or  odors.  The  butter  should  then  lie  com- 
pletely covered  with  a  salt  solution  in  which  the  amount  of  foli 
used  is  al)oot  one-fourth  the  weight  of  the  water.  A  larf^ 
plate  or  a  header  made  of  some  odorless  wood  should  l>e  pUral 
on  the  butter.  Cle^n  stones  or  bricks  may  \ye  used  to  wetgbt 
it.  The  butter  must  be  kept  covere<l  with  the  brine  solutiocu 
Butter  packet!  in  this  way  and  stored  in  a  cool  celhir  should 
all  winter. 

Persons  who  are  not  making;  their  own  butter  can  secure 
factory  results  by  getting  fresh  butter  made  from  sweot 


L 


r 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


583 


Wm 


m 


and  packinpj  it  as  (ies€riljpcl.    Such  butter  may  l)o  obtained  of 

I      iiear-l)y  creameries  in  wholesale  lots.    The  best  time  to  buy  is 

from  the  middle  of  May  to  the  middle  of  July. 

Siorage  of  fruit* 

Fruit  should  be  picked  carefully  and  without  braising,  and 
should  be  i^laeeil  in  storage  as  soon  as  possilile.  It  may  be 
packed  in  l)arrels  or  boxes  or 
placed  in  open  trays.  When 
the  latter  method  is  used  and  it 
is  de?ired  to  keep  the  fruit  in 
particularly  fine  eonditioUp  the 
specimens  should  not  be  allowed 
to  touch  one  another.  Apples 
that  are  to  be  kept  for  a  con- 
{?iderable  time^  whether  ex- 
posed or  in  ]>aekages,  should 
be  wrapped  separately.  Light 
manila  wrappers,  10  by  10 
inches,  may  be  used. 

Fruit  stored  in  the  cellar  fre- 
quently does  not  keep  well; 
it  either  shrivels  or  liecomes 
spongj'  and  decays.  This  fault, 
w^hich  often  lie8  in  the  storage 
room,  may  be  corrected  wholJy 
or  in  part-  A  fruit  cellar  should 
be  well  ventilateiL  The  prin- 
ciple of  physics  that  warm  air 

rises  and  cool  air  settles,  is  applicable  Iiere.  Warm  air  should 
be  pennitted  to  pass  nyr  at  the  top  of  the  room  through  vent- 
ilatoi-s,  and  cool  air  from  outside  should  be  admitted  to  the 
room  at  the  bottom  (Fig.  121).  In  a  cellar  this  can  be  accom- 
plishetl  by  means  of  a  shaft  leading  down  the  wall  from  a 
window  and  opening  near  the  floor.  A  few  windo^vs  at  the 
top  of  the  wall  constitute  the  system  of  ventilation  for  most 
*  C,  S.  Wilfton,  Comt'll  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull,  31. 


rn 


•^'S. 


Fta.  121. — Cellar  ventilation. 


584 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


farm  cellars.     Although  this  arrangement  is  ufceptad  as  m 
ficient  and  in  many  rases  gives  fairly  gocw!   siitisfartifm. 
tempera tiiro  eannot  be  kept  sq  nearly  uniform  and  correct 
when  intake  shafts  are  used. 

A  uniform  temptTatore  of  50"^  F,  in  the  eellar  will  keep  fruit  i 
good  condition  for  months.     The  ideal  temperature  is  alioii 
31*^  or  32'^  v.,  but  this  eannot  ysually  l>e  maintained  in  a  cell 
The  temperature  shoufti  not  be  ijermitted  to  Huctuate,     Fruil 
that  is  kept  at  34°  F,  during  the  night  and  at  60°  F.  duricg 
day  will  soon  decay.    In  the  farm  cellar,  uniforndty  of  lenii 
atiire  is  maintained  by  means  of  the  ventilation,  which  mhc 
be  watehefl  very  closely.    In  (hilars  where  it  is  impossible  toj 
trol  the  temperature  and  humidity  as  demK'tl,  the  fruit  ir 
WTappetl  in  pajK^  antl  packed  in  hardwood  sawdust. 

Fruit  may  also  be  stored  in  pits.    This  method  is  described  1 
L.  H.  Bailey  as  follows:  "Many  apples,  particularly  russets i 
other  firm  varieties,  keep  well  when  buried  after  the  nuuuier' 
of  pitting  potatoes,     »Sometimes»  however,  they  taste  of  ti 
earth.    This  may  be  preventetl  by  setting  a  ridge-pole  over  tl 
pile  of  apples  in  forked  stick,s,  and  making  a  roof  of  Ijoards 
such  a  way  that  there  will  l)e  an  air  space  over  the  fruit.    Then 
cover  the  boards  witli  straw  and  earth.     Apples  seldom  kc 
well  after  removal  from  a  pit  in  spring." 

Storage  of  vegtiabies.* 

Storage  requirements  for  diflFerent  vegetables  vary  wide}} 
Some  vegetables  are  easily  kept.  If  the  parsnip  is  meR^Iy  lefl 
in  the  ground,  oncoming  spring  wull  find  it  not  only  well  pn 
served  but  actually  improved  in  quality.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  sw^eet  potato  and  the  squash  are  kept  successfully  onl; 
when  the  temperature  is  high  and  uniform  and  the  humidity 
low. 

Certain  fundamental  principles  apply  to  the  storage  of  wM, 
sorts  of  vegetables  under  all  conditions.  The  important  faciore 
to  consider  are  temperature,  moisture,  and  ventilation.  A 
temperature  that  is  too  high  favors  decomposition;  a  tetnpefa* 

*  Paul  Work.    Cornell  Ecading-CouTBe  fur  the  Farm  Home,  BuU, 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


685 


ture  that  is  too  low  causes  freezing,  with  the  subsequent  break- 
ing down  of  vegetalile  tissue.  A  dr>^  atmosphere  causes  fruits 
and  vegetables  to  dry  out  and  shrivel;  while  undue  moisture, 
especially  when  combined  with  high  temperature,  favot^  the 
growth  of  dcv^itructive  fungous  and  mokl  organis^ms.  Ventila- 
tion is  not  only  a  means  of  regulating  these  condiLionSp  but  it  is 
also  important  in  itself  in  removing  gaseous  products  that  may  ] 
be  more  or  less  injurioui?. 

Proper  condition  of  the  produce  is  essential  for  successful 
storage.  Vegetables  should  !)e  nearly  mature  when  storefl,  but 
over-ripeness  is  to  be  avoideil,  as  it  favors  early  decay.  liipen- 
ing  processes  continue,  though  slowly,  after  storage,  and  due 
allowances  must  be  made  for  these  in  determining  the  maturity 
of  the  vegctalile  to  l>e  stored.  Ordy  the  vc^y  finest  specimens 
should  Ije  selected — those  that  are  firm  and  of  good  size  and 
shape.  It  is  at  injured  spots  that  decay  begins^  and  even  bruises 
that  can  !>e  found  only  by  careful  examination  are  serious;  hence 
the  necessit}^  for  the  greatest  t^are. 

There  are  wide  differences  among  varieties  of  vegetables  in 
their  adaptability^  to  storage.  In  general,  the  late-maturing 
sorts  are  the  most  suitable. 

Many  methorls  of  providing  the  conditions  necessary  for  suc- 
cessful storage  have  bt*en  devise*  1.  The  firat  place  to  suggest 
itself  is  the  l)aseraent  of  house,  bam,  or  outbuilding.  The  house 
cellar,  however,  is  likely  to  l>e  too  warm  and  dry»  particularly 
if  there  is  a  furnace  in  it.  It  is  likewise  undesiral>!e  to  have  a 
large  amount  of  vegetable  matter  beneath  the  dwelling.  How- 
ever, these  objections  may  I>e  overcome  partly.  Small  quanti- 
ties of  fruits  or  vegetaljies  may  be  stored  in  a  corner  of  the  cellar 
away  from  the  furnace,  and  may  he  protected  from  drying  out 
by  moss  or  by  soil,  preferably  of  sandy  type.  If  a  large  quantity 
is  to  ]>e  kept,  a  separate  compartment  may  be  boarded  off  by  a 
doul>le  partition  filkxl  with  some  nonconductor  of  heat,  such  as 
dr^'  sawdust.  This  compartmcjit  .should  Ijc  ceiled,  and  should 
be  providetl  with  ventilating  openings  or  flues  so  that  it  may  be 
quite  independent  of  the  remainder  of  the  house.  Vents  should 
be  arrangeil  at  lioth  ceiling  and  floor.    Since  warm  air  rises  and 


586 


.4  MANUAL  OF  HOMK-MAKING 


cold  air  falls,  it  is  possible  to  control  the  temperature  by 
of  these  vents.  While  t  hp  weather  remains  warm  in  the  fill, 
fltie^s  arc  closed  during  the  day  and  opened  at  rji^ht,  Wbentke 
weather  beeornes  luon*  s(*ver(*,  the  plan  is  rf^versed,  and  tin 
warmer  air  of  midday  is  admitted. 

Special  cellars  and  pita  for  storage  of  ve|retabl€*8  may  be  eoih 
structed  at  small  cost  and  are  very  satisfactory.  A  simple  tyjR 
is  shown  in  Fif2?.  122,  A  pit  I  or  2  feet  deep  is  dug  in  a  woB» 
drained  spot,  and  a  foundation  wall  of  stakes  and  IxMifflitv  or, 
better,  of  concrete,  is  Iniilt  around  it.  On  this  iii*aU»  nifl«f 
are  erected  for  the  support  of  roof  boards.    The  roof  is  ecweml 


Flo.  122, — The  storugn  treneh, 

with  soil  and  sod,  or  with  straw  and  a  light  covering  of  Mrtlk 
or  with  manure.    Such  a  pit  will  last  several  years,  espaeialtf 

if  a  rot-resistant  wood,  as  the  so-called  **  pecky '*  cypress,  is  ti.^fl 
With  the  specific  directions  that  are  furnished  by  cement  manti*_ 
facturens,  concrete  work  is  withm  the  range  of  any  handy  ma 
and  a  permanent  concrete  cave  or  pit  may  be  built  with  UttI 
expense  and  trouble.    No  matter  what  the  form  of  conslructic 
one  or  two  small  ventilators  should  be  provided  at  the  top 
the  cave,  an<l  one  at  the  liottom  of  the  door*    These  shou 
arranged  to  oi>en  and  dose. 

Burying  vegerable^s  is  one  of  the  easiest,  as  well  as  one 
most  successful,  methods  of  storing  them.    It  keef>s  tbcvn^ 
good  condition  and  involves  no  expense.    One  objei*tion  to  this" 
method  is  that  it  is  often  difficult  or  impossible  to  get  at  the 
vegetables  at  certain  times  during  the  winter.    However, 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


siderable  quantity  may  be  taken  out  at  one  time  and  kept  in  the 
house  cellar  for  a  week  or  two.  A  .nile,  prcferabl}^  on  sandy  soil, 
well  drained  and  well  proteeteil  from  surface  w^asli,  should  be 
cliosen.  An  ohlonir  pit  of  the  required  size  and  about  a  foot  deep 
should  he  made.  The  Ijottoni  of  the  pit  should  be  lined  with 
straw,  and  the  %^egetablea  earefully  heaped  on  it*  Th€*y  should 
then  be  covered  with  a  layer  of  lea%^es  and  straw  for  proteetion 
and  to  make  their  removal  easier.  Lastly,  soil  should  be  added 
to  a  depth  from  4  to  8  inches.  Wisps  of  straw  may  be  set  at 
intervals  in  the  peak  for  ventilatioiL  Oreat  care  must  be  taken 
early  in  the  season  not  to  cover  the  vegetable's  too  closely,  aa 
speedy  decay  w411  result  from  heating  and  sweating.  As  the 
weather  (jecomes  severe,  manure  may  be  piled  on  to  give  ad- 
ditional proteetion. 

When  several  vegetables  are  to  Ije  stored,  or  when  they  are  to 
be  removetl  at  different  times  during  the  winter,  it  is  well  to 
make  the  pit  ver>'  long  and  narrow.  Earth  partitions  may  then 
be  built  in  as  the  work  progre.sses.  The  diiTerent  compart- 
nients  may  be  marked  with  stakes.  One  compartment  can  be 
opened  without  disturbing  the  othei-s. 

The  root  crops  require  very  simple  treatment  for  storage. 
The  tops  should  be  removeii,  and  the  r<x)tg  may  be  kept  by  any 
of  the  general  methods  desc^ritied, 

Cabbage  also  may  be  stored  in  any  of  the  ways  given.  Heads 
should  not  be  over-mature  and  should  remain  in  the  garden  as 
long  as  there  is  no  danger  of  severe  freezing.  They  should  he 
cut  near  the  ground,  with  most  of  the  leaves  aliout  them.  When 
a  quantity  is  to  be  stored,  the  trench  may  he  made  by  throwing 
furrows  on  both  sides  and  finishing  with  the  shovel.  The  heads 
are  then  laid  in  order,  perhaps  two  oi"  three  wide  and  two  deep. 
The  plow  may  be  usetl  to  begin  the  covering,  but  the  work  should 
be  completed  by  hand.  If  the  heads  are  not  mature  at  storing 
time,  the}'  should  lie  lifted  with  the  roots  and  plaeefl  in  a  trench, 
roots  down,  as  close  as  they  will  stantl.  A  little  sand  should  be 
packed  about  the  roots  as  the  work  go^  on.  In  this  way  the  heads 
will  continue  growth  and  become  thoroughly  solid.  Danish  Ball 
Head  is  beat  for  winter  storage  uiuler  most  New  York  conditions. 


688  .4  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

Celery  should  he  UHvaI  entire  and  set  erect  in  trenebeaorpiti 
with  loose  soil  about  the  rcjots.  In  storing  this  crop,  jcrutt 
care  must  he  taken  to  avoi<l  covering  too  heavily  at  first..  Giwt 
Pascal  aod  Winter  Queen  are  good  sorts  for  winter  use. 

Squash  requires  a  warm  place  for  storage.  A  tonipctmtis? 
of  50*^  F.  or  more  is  good.  Shelves  or  bifis  in  a  house  or  a  irf 
cellar  are  preferable  to  burjijig. 

DRYING    FRUITS    ANB   VEGETABLES 

Dried  products  do  not  require  expensive  containers,  and 
can  be  stored  almost  indefinitely  under  proper  eoniJifioQg 
relatively  small  space.    One  huntlrerl  jiounds  of  frt*8h  vcgetabl 
may  l>e  reducetl  to  an  averaf2;e  of  ten  pounds  hy  drying.    \ 
tables  ami  fruits,  if  properly  dried,  retain  much  of  thtnr  nutu 
flavor  and  food  value;  io  some  cases  they  are  more  piala' 
than  when  canned,  in  others  they  are  less  fmlatable.     Dni 
does  not  seem  to  injure  the  nutritive  value  of  fcxKls. 

Early  apples,  sweet  corn,  carrots,  partly  ripened  lima  beatis, 
string  l>eans,  weli-matured  peas,  sweet  jiotatoes,  certain  typeiof 
squash,  pumpkins,  anil  some  of  the  berries  lend  thcinsdvoi 
particularly  well  to  drying,  either  in  small  quantities  for  haoMi 
consmnption  or  in  larger  qoantities  for  sale,  Blaekcap,  purpio* 
cane,  and  in  some  cases  red  rasplxTries  make  good  ihied  prod* 
ucts.  Blackl)erries  also  may  be  dri€*d,  but  the  results  are 
80  good  as  with  raspberries.  Prunes,  apricots,  penchee,  any 
the  sweet  varieties  of  pears,  strawberrit^,  sweet  cherries, 
in  some  cases  sour,  are  also  sm'cessfully  drie<l,  though  thi>^ 
fruits  may  usually  be  sold  in  the  fresh  state  to  commercial  finna 
at  a  reasonable  profit. 

Proper  ventilation  that  allows  for  a  free  circulation  of  dry  aar 
is  more  important  than  heat  in  drying  foo<ls.  For  example» 
an  electric  fan  placed  before  a  drier  may  accomplish  excellent 
results  without  the  aid  of  heat.  How*ever,  the  use  of  heat  is  marc 
practicable  in  most  homes. 

The  temperature  for  drying  sliould  be  rather  low  to  prevent 
scorching,  but  the  more  quickly  the  food  is  dried,  the  better 
will  be  the  color  and  the  flavor.    The  temperature  of  the  drier 


rod^ 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


589 


cannot  be  detemiined  very  accurately  except  by  using  a  ther- 
mometer. An  oven  thermometer  or  a  chemical  thermometer 
may  be  suspended  in  the  oven  or  the  drier.  The  greatest  care 
should  be  given  to  the  regulation  of  the  heat,  because  the 
temperature  in  the  drier  may  rise  rather  quickly,  arid  the 
product  may  scorch.  The  food  should  be  stirred  from  time 
to  time  both  to  prevent  Bcorching  and  to  obtain  a  uniform 
product. 

In  climates  where  successive  sunny  days  may  be  counted  on, 
certain  foods  may  fic  dried  outdoors.  If  food  is  to  l>e  dried  over 
a  kitchen  stove  or  outdoors,  it  should  be  carefully  protected 
from  dust  and  from  flies.  Coarse  cheese-cloth  may  l)e  laid  over 
the  fooil  in  the  house.  If  the  fcKxl  is  outtloom,  the  covering  of 
cheese-clolh  should  he  raised  by  means  of  supports  or  racks  so 
that  it  will  not  rest  directly  on  the  food  and  thus  allow  possible 
contamination  from  flies.  Especially  in  the  case  of  fooii  that 
is  entirely  or  partly  dried  outdoom  and  that  is  to  be  used  without 
being  cooket.1,  every  precaution  should  be  taken  to  prevent 
the  spreading  of  certain  intestinal  diseases  that  may  be  carried 
by  flies. 

Equipment  for  drtfing, 

A  very  slow  oven  may  he  used  for  drying  fruits  and  vegetables 
spread  on  papers,  large  platters,  sheets  of  metal,  or  pieces  of 
heavy  screening  with  an  inch  or  two  turned  down  at  opposite 
ends  for  supports.  The  heat  must  l>e  carefully  controlled  to 
prevent  scorching.  The  oven  door  should  be  left  slightly  open 
to  allow  a  circulation  of  air  to  carry  off  the  moisture  set  free  by 
evaporation. 

Barrel  hoops  or  frames  made  of  laths  may  be  covered  with 
galvanized  iron  netting  or  with  cheese-cloth  and  suspended 
above  the  stove  by  a  rope  with  a  pulley  arrangement,  which 
makes  it  easy  to  adjust  the  trays  at  the  proper  height.  Some 
housekeepers  use  window  screens  on  bricks  as  supports.  A 
piece  of  heavy  galvanize*!  iron  screening  with  4  or  5  inches  on 
two  opposite  sides  bent  down  to  form  supjiorts  is  both  simple 
and  elTective^    A  sheet  of  tin  laid  over  a  dripping  pan  containing 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKLVO 


a  small  amount  of  hot  water  makoft  a  good  sut^isiituta  far  i 
certain  type  of  conunerfial  drier. 

There  aw  se%Hn*al  shkiU  driers  on  the  market  that  i^ive  sati»- 
faetorv'  results.    They  are  of  such  size  that  tliey  can  be  placed 
the  top  of  a  kitehen  stove.    Portable  outdoor  drierH  aiv  t*onv 
lent  if  much  food  is  to  be  dried.    Home-made  dr>'  kilnn  are  uwd 
in  some  sections  of  the  coimtr>\ 

Any  pie<*e  of  home-made  apparatus  that  provides  means  far 
free  rireuhition  of  air  and  for  feguhitinj;^  the  temperature  B 
likely  to  prove  natisfactory*  A  device  with  metal  tude^  that  wBI 
confine  the  heattn:!  air  in  a  given  channel  during  its  upwafd 
course  through  the  trays  of  food,  uses  heat  economically. 

Drying  fruits. 

All  fruits  that  are  to  l)e  dried  should  be  well  ripenixl  but  Dot 
over-ripe. 

Fruits  that  are  dricHl  with  the  skins  on  should  Ik*  dippiflri 
quickly,  by  m(*ans  of  a  wire  ba.sket  or  a  piece  of  ch<N?s<>-cloth,  uilP^ 
a  boiling  solution  of  lye  made  in  the  proportion  of  )^  pound  of 
concentrated  lye  to  8  gallons  of  w^ater.  They  should  then  be 
rinsed  two  or  three  times  in  clear  water.  The  lye  |>erfanitcs 
the  skin  and  thus  facihtatcs  evaporation,  Morijover,  it  dc^ 
stroys  micro*organisms  that  might  cause  spoilage. 

Mast  fruits  are  improved  by  being  dipped  into  a  thin  sirup 
before  being  dried.    If  the  fruit  is  to  be  used  in  puddin^^ 
breads,  brc^iikfast  cereals,  or  as  a  confection,  it  may  l>e  sprii 
with  sugar  before  being  dried ;  if  it  is  to  be  cooked  for  satice^  littfe 
or  no  sugar  should  be  addend. 

Metal  trays  for  drying  fruits  should  be  covered  with  chi 
cloth  to  prevent  acid  action.    Wrapping  paper  may  be  uaed 
tra}^  in  an  oven. 

Juicy  fruits  require  more  ventilation  in  drying  than  do  wich 
fruits  as  apples. 

Wlien  fmit  is  suflficiently  dry,  it  should  be  impossible  to  preas 
vrater  out  of  the  freshly  cut  ends  of  the  pieces.  The  natuml 
grain  of  the  fruit  should  not  be  apparent  on  cut  surfaces.  The 
fruit  should  be  leathery  or  pliable,  and  not  so  dry  that  il  will 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


591 


snap  or  crackle.  In  general,  the  tlrier  the  fruit  is,  the  less  ehanue 
there  is  for  spoilap:e;  but  sweet  fruits  can  safely  contain  more 
moisture  than  those  with  a  low  sugar-eon  lent. 

Fruit  should  he  rooted  quickly  after  hein^  dried  in  order  to 
prevent  a  shrivclwl  and  unattractive  appearance. 

Fruit  juiees  or  fruit  pulps  may  be  concentrated  by  being 
iKJiled  over  direct  heat  and  then  dne<l  in  the  lop  of  a  double 
boiler,  or  in  platters  or  enamel  pans  sel  in  a  mo<lerate  oven,  or 
in  the  sunshine.  The  juice  or  pulp  is  sufficiently  eoneentratetl 
when  on  cooling  it  makes  a  highly  glazed,  tough,  dry,  leatheiy 
jelly.  The  leather  may  then  be  tlried  in 'thin  sheets,  sprinkled 
with  granulated  sufj;ar,  rolled  like  a  jelly-roll,  anil  then  cut 
across  in  pieces,  or  it  may  be  dried  in  a  sheet  %  inch  thick  and 
cut  in  cubes. 


be  given  to  the  selection  and 
drying  as  for  caiuiing.     (Sood 


Drying  vegetables. 

Equally  as  great  eare  should 
preparation  of  vegetabk\s  for 
results  depc*nd  largely  on  the  use  of  vegetables  that  are  abso- 
lutely fresh,  young,  tender,  and  perfectly  clean.  All  vegetatiles 
ehoold  iic  washed  and  cleaneii  thoroughly  liefore  being  dried.  If 
steel  knives  are  used  for  paring  and  cutting  the  vegetables,  they 
should  be  kept  clean  and  Ijright  in  order  to  prevent  discoloration. 

After  being  cleaned  and  prepared,  the  vegetables  should  be 
blancheil  as  for  canning  (pages  005  and  612  to  614)  but  not  dipped 
in  cold  water.  Tliis  removes  t  he  strong  odor  and  flavor  from  cer- 
tain kinds  of  vegetaliles,  and  softens  and  loosens  the  fiber,  which 
allows  the  moisture  in  the  vegetables  to  evaporate  more  quickly 
and  unifonnly.  Moreover,  it  quickly  coagulates  the  {protein  and 
thus  helps  to  ret^an  the  natural  flavors.  After  being  blanched 
for  the  required  number  of  minutes,  the  vegetables  should  be 
drained  and  either  placed  between  two  towels  or  exposed  to  the 
san  and  air  for  a  short  time  to  remove  the  surface  moistiu^e. 


Slorage  of  dried  foods, 

Dric*l  foods  should  always  be  stored  in  containers  that  will 
exclude  hght  and  iii;sects  and  in  a  warm  dry  place,  such  as  an 


592  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

airy  attic.  The  \w^\  container  is  a  tin  box,  bucket,  or 
with  a  reasonably  tight  cover.  Perhaps  the  most  con  veoiefit  wbA 
cheapest  container  is  the  small  paper  bag.  Stuall  amotnits  4 
food  should  l>e  put  in  each  ha^.  This  will  prev^ont  tiie 
of  any  dried  product  that  cannot  be  consumed  in  a  short 
The  up|>er  |3art  of  the  bag  is  twisted  to  fomi  a  nc^ck,  TV 
neck  is  Ix^nt  over  and  tied  with  a  string.  The  entire  bog  ■ 
then  paintc*d  with  a  coat  of  melted  paraffin  by  means  of  a  0iill 
linish  or  a  frazzled  end  of  a  piece  of  rojie.  This  makes  llmbii 
practically  prrK)f  against  insects.  To  pnitect  tfiem  furthur  Crooi 
insect  ravai^es,  the  ba|^  should  lie  labeled  and  paekcxl  in  % 
tin  container  with  a  tisht-fitting  cover,  A  lar^Kc  number  erf 
bags  can  be  stored  in  an  ordinary  lartl  can.  ParaiTifi-roatcii 
paper  containers  of  various  sizes  can  lie  found  on  the  tnarioili 
If  such  containers  are  used,  they  should  \yQ  stored  aa  are  thft 
paper  bags. 

Whtai  vegetables  are  first  taken  from  the  drier,  if  compleldT 
dried  they  are  very  brittle.  They  are  more  easily  handled  and 
are  in  better  condition  for  storing  if  allowed  to  stand  frtmi  <xm 
to  three  houi-s  to  absorb  enough  moisture  to  make  them  pliahk 
before  they  are  put  into  bags  or  stored  otherwise.  If  it  ift  imh 
convenient  to  store  products  inmiediately  and  they  are  allowed 
to  stand  for  several  days,  they  should  be  heated  to  180*  F.  to 
destroy  any  insect  eggs  that  may  l>e  on  them,  Care  ahoiUd  be 
taken  not  to  heat  the  vegetables  higlier  than  180*^  F. 

Apples,  which  absorb  moisture  Rnidily,  should  \m  stored 
tight  box  or  barrel  lined  with  paper  in  preference  to  cloth  fl«cka. 


SALTING  ^^GETABLES* 

Equipmefd, 

A  supply  of  clean  wooden  kegs  or  stone  crocks  is  the 
requisite.  For  home  use  the  smaller  sizes  are  preferable  M  a 
rule,  because  the  contents  will  then  be  used  up  more  quicU3r 
anti  there  will  be  less  chance  of  molding  from  standing  too  Icxng 
after  the  kegs  or  crocks  are  opened.    Wooden  kegs  holdiiig  & 

•  Hnund,  L.  A.,  and  Xmxx^,  II.  L.    Prcson'ation  of  vti^tiibleB  by 
Uua  and  B&ltiug.    Farmers^  Bull.  8Sb  U-  B.  Dept.  of  Agr. 


I 


FOOD  PRESERVATION. 


or  10  gallons  are  a  convenient  size.  New  kegs  are  preferable, 
but  old  ones,  such  as  beer  or  cider  kegs,  may  l>e  used  if  they  are 
thoroughly  wa.shed  and  steamerl  to  remove  any  undesirable 
odor  or  flavor  which  might  be  imparted  to  the  foods  packed  in 
them.  Wooden  vessels  of  yellow  or  pitch  pine  are  undesirable, 
since  they  are  apt  to  give  a  disagreeable  taste  to  the  foods. 
Stone  crocks  or  jars  holding  from  1  to  5  gallons  are  convenient. 
Stoneware  is  less  likely  to  absorb  flavors  than  wood,  and  stone 
jars  nia}^  fje  obtained  in  smaller  sizc^s  than  wooden  kegs.  Wide- 
mouthed  bottles  or  glass  jars,  wiiich  arc  not  suitalile  for  canning, 
niay  also  be  used  for  salting  or  fermenting  small  quantities  of 
foods. 

A  supply  of  ordinary  fine  salt,  which  can  be  purchased  in  bulk 
for  about  2  cents  a  pound,  m  most  satisfactory  for  general  use. 
Table  salt  will  do  ver>^  well,  but  is  rather  expensive  if  large 
quantities  of  vegetables  are  to  be  preser\'ed.  The  rather  coarse 
salt  (known  in  the  trade  as  **  ground  alum  salt'^i  which  is  used 
in  freezing  ice  cream,  can  he  used.  Rock  salt  should  not  be  used 
because  it  is  too  coarse  and  is  likely  to  contain  impurities* 

Clean  white  cloth  (cheese-cloth  or  muslin)  is  nt^*essar>^  for 
covering  the  material  after  it  is  packed  into  the  container.  It 
will  be  convenient  to  cot  this  into  circular  pieces  about  6 
inches  larger  in  diameter  than  the  stone  crock  or  keg.  Two 
or  three  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth  or  one  thickness  of  muslin 
or  heavier  cloth  should  be  spread  over  the  top  of  the  vege- 
tables. 

Hound  pieces  of  l>oard  about  1  inch  or  more  in  thickness  will 
be  neetlttl  to  put  on  top  of  tlie  chcestM^^loth.  The  boards  should 
be  a  httle  smaller  in  diameter  than  the  inside  of  the  crock  or  the 
head  of  tlie  keg  or  tub,  so  that  they  will  slip  in  and  out  easily* 
The  pieces  may  be  sawed  out  at  a  lumber  mill,  or  may  be  made 
at  home  by  fastening  together  several  boartis  with  cleats  and 
rounding  them  with  a  small  saw^  and  a  carpenter's  shave.  Al- 
most any  wood  may  be  used  except  yellow  or  pitch  pine,  which 
is  likely  to  impart  an  undesirable  flavor  to  the  vegetables.  For 
small  containers,  if  preferred,  heavy  plates  of  suitable  size 
can  be  used  instead  of  boards. 


'694 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


I 


One  or  imnv  clean  1  *ricks  or  some  clean  stom*^  lu^y  be  t 
weights  to  \m\{\  down  the  mass  in  the  ke^  or  crock. 

Paraffin  is  needetl  to  |>oiir  ovpr  the  liquid  in  the  contiUiKn 
(after  fermejitalion  has  eeiised)  (o  prevent  mold. 

A  pair  of  kitchen  scales  or  steelyards  and  n,  quart  €ir  gaOoii 
liquid  measure  complete  the  necessary  equipment. 

Fermetitatian  wUh  dry  salting. 

Aft  ha^  already  !>ccn  stated,  fermentation  with  dry  saltisig 
eonsists  in  packing  the  material  with  a  HinM  atnoiint  of  miU 
No  water  is  addeil,  for  the  salt  extracts  the  water  from  the  vege- 
tables and  forms  the  l>rine*  The  metlioii,  in  general,  i^  h»  fol- 
lows: 

Wash  the  vegetables,  drahi  off  the  surplus  water,  and  weigll 
them.  For  each  100  tKiunds  of  the  vegetables  weigh  out  3 
pounds  of  salt;  for  smaller  quantities  use  the  saine  proportion 
(3  per  cent  by  weight)  of  8a! t.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the 
crock,  or  otiier  container  with  a  la^'er  of  the  vegetable» 
1  inch  thick  and  sprinkle  over  this  a  little  of  the  salt*  Do  nol 
atld  too  much  of  the  salt  to  the  first  layers  packeil,  but  try  to 
distribute  it  ecjually  among  the  different  layers  so  that  the 
quantity  which  has  bn/n  weigher!  i>ut  will  l>e  sufficient  for 
given  quantity  of  vegetal>les  packed.  If  a  Uttle  of  the  «alt ; 
left  over»  it  can  be  added  to  tlie  top  layer,  but  if  more  has  to 
be  atlded  than  has  lH»en  weighed  out,  the  finished  product  will 
tiiste  too  salty.  Continue  adding  layers  of  the  materinl  apciii* 
kkxl  with  salt  until  the  container  is  aliout  thrn    "  ^  fuH, 

Sprinkle  the  last  of  the  salt  on  the  top  layer  and  -^  iver  fl 

one  or  two  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth,  tucking  them  down  il 
the  sides.  On  the  cloth  place  one  of  the  round  pieces  of  bcjAitl 
or  a  plate,  and  on  tliis  put  a  clean  stone  or  one  or  two  cleni 
bricks.  The  size  of  the  weight  depends  on  the  quantity  of] 
terial  being  preservecL  For  a  5-gallon  keg  a  weight  of  10  fiouc 
will  be  sufficient,  but  if  a  larger  barrel  is  used,  a  heavier 
will  be  neetlecK  The  weight  added  should  l)e  sufficient  to 
tract  the  juices  to  fonn  a  brine,  whicli  will  cover  the  top  to 
about  twenty-four  hours  and  sometimes  it  may  be 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


595 


to  add  more  stones  after  the  material  has  stood  a  while,  if  a 
brine  does  not  form. 

After  it  is  packed,  allow  the  container  to  stand  in  a  moderately 
warm  room  to  ferment.  The  salt  and  pressure  of  the  weight 
8oon  extract  water  from  the  vegetables  and  form  a  brine  which 
.soon  rovers  the  whole  mass.  The  stone  and  board  serve  to 
keep  the  vegetables  beneath  the  surface  of  the  liquid.  If  the 
weight  is  not  sufficient  for  this  purpose,  a  larger  stone  or  more 
bricks  should  be  added.  As  the  fermentation  goe,s  on,  Imbbles 
iirise  to  the  surface  of  the  liquid.  The  rati*  of  fermentation  de- 
pends principally  on  the  temperature.  In  warm  weather  it 
retiuires  only  eight  to  ten  days;  in  cool  weather  two  to  four  week 
may  be  necessary.  When  bul>bling  stops,  fermentation  is  com- 
plete. A  good  way  to  deteiniine  this  is  to  tap  the  receptacle 
gently;  if  no  huljl>les  arise,  fermentation  is  finished. 

The  containers  should  then  be  placed  in  a  cellar  or  other  cool 
storeroom  and  the  surface  of  the  liquid  treatetl  to  prevent  the 
development  of  a  stnim  of  mold.  If  this  is  not  clone,  a  thin  fihii 
will  appear  on  the  surface  of  the  brine  soon  after  fermentation 
ceases,  which  will  spread  rapidly  and  develop  into  a  heavy 
folded  membrane.  This  scorn  is  a  growth  of  micro-organisms 
which  fecxl  upon  the  acid  formed  by  fermentation.  If  allowed 
to  grow  yndisturbcnh  all  tlie  acid  will  eventually  l>e  destroyed 
and  the  fermented  material  will  spoiL  This  scum  must  be 
prevented  from  forming  if  the  product  is  to  l>e  kept  for  a  con- 
siderable time.  Exclusion  of  air  from  the  surface  of  the  brine 
will  entirely  prevent  its  formation.  There  arc  three  feasiljle 
methods  of  accomplisliing  this. 

The  first  method  is  to  cover  the  surface  with  very  hot  melted 
paraffin.  If  the  paraffin  is  sufficiently  hot  to  make  the  brine 
boil  when  poured  upon  it,  a  smooth,  even  layer  will  he  formed 
before  hardening,  making  a  p<H'fectly  air-tight  seal.  Before 
adding  paraffin  the  ftmtainei's  should  be  set  wiiere  tliey  will 
not  he  disturlicd  until  reatly  for  use,  tis  any  attempt  to  move 
them  afterw^ards  may  break  the  sea!  and  necessitate  reseaUng. 
Paraffin  has  the  advantage  of  ease  in  hamlling,  and  of  being 
eiL^ily  separated  from  the  fermented  vegetables  when  they  are 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


removed.  Further,  it  can  be  used  over  again  and  thus  the  ex- 
pense is  small  in  the  long  run, ,  If  it  becomes  dirt^y  it  ciO  be 
purified  by  licating  very  hot  and  straining  through  severat  tltjek* 
nesses  of  cheese-cloth.  One  disadvantage  in  the  use  of  paraffin 
is  that  the  formation  of  gas  l>elow  the  layer  ^n\\  break  tbe  mal\ 
therefort%  it  should  not  he  used  until  fermentation  has  oettWfL  If 
the  paraffin  breaks,  it  should  be  removed^  reraelted,  and  repbi«fi 

The  second  method  is  to  pack  a  Imrrel  or  keg  full  and  lh<^  r^ 
place  the  head.  Fill  the  barrel  or  keg  as  full  as  possible  with  tlie 
fresh  material  to  l)e  fermente<l  and  then  adcl  the  round  board 
and  weights  exactly  as  described  on  page  594.  Let  the  ImutvI 
stand  for  48  hours  to  allow  part  of  the  gas  to  escape*  Then 
remove  the  l>oard  and  weight  and  head  the  barrel  or  kc^  tifi 
tight*  Bore  a  small  hole  (aljout  3  2  i>i«^h)  in  the  hoj^l  and  fill  tbc^ 
barrel  full  with  brine  {niacle  by  dissolving  %  cup  salt  in  I  f^ 
Ion  water)  so  that  there  is  no  air  space.  Allow  the  barrel  to 
stand  until  the  fermentation  has  atoppe<l,  adding  more  brine 
at  intervals  to  keep  the  container  full.  When  bubbliog  hm 
stoppt^i,  plus  the  vent  tight.  If  the  barrel  does  not  leakt  fe^ 
mented  products  put  up  in  thi.s  manner  will  keep  indefinitely. 

The  third  method  is  to  use  an  f>il,  like  cottonseed  oil,  whieli 
floats  on  the  surface  and  effectively  prevents  air  from  reaching 
the  brine.  Brine  covered  with  a  layer  of  cottonseed  oil  or  aome 
other  wholesome  oil  aljout  J 4  inch  thick  will  ket*p  indefinitely. 
The  only  objection  to  liquid  oils  is  the  difficulty  of  getting  at  the 
preserved  vegetables  without  getting  them  covered  with  the 
oil,  which  is  difficult  to  remove.  Before  the  vegetables  are  to 
be  removed  the  oil  should  be  skimmed  or  siphoned  off  from  iha 
surface  of  the  brine. 

If  oil  or  paraffin  is  used  to  cover  the  brine,  it  is  advisable, 
after  fermentation  is  finishecb  to  adjust  the  amount  of  brine 
used  and  weights  on  the  cover  so  that  the  brine  comes  up  to  but 
not  over  the  cover.  In  thin  casi*  only  the  lirine  expoee<l  between 
the  cover  and  sides  need  be  oiled  or  paraffincHl,  thus  invi 
covering  material. 

Experiments  have  shown  that  the  following  vegetables 
be  preserved  sruccessfully  under  home  conditions  by  the 


I 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


597 


method  of  fermentation  by  dry  salting:  cabbage  (sauerkraut), 
string  beans,  beet  tops,  and  turnip  tops,  and  it  is  probalile  that 
others  may  be  added  to  this  list  as  a  result  of  further  experiments. 

Femmitation  in  acid  brine. 

Some  vegetables  which  do  not  contain  sufficient  water  are 
better  fermented  by  coveriog  them  with  a  weak  brine.  This 
may  be  done  as  follows;  Wash  the  ve|i;etables,  drain  off  the 
surplus  water,  and  pack  them  in  a  keg,  cmck,  or  other  utensil 
until  it  is  nearly  full  (within  about  3  inches  of  the  top  of  the 
vessel) .  Prepare  a  weak  brine  as  follows :  To  each  gallon  of  water 
used  add  Jo  pint  of  vinegar  and  ?4  cup  of  salt  and  stir  until  the 
salt  is  entirely  dissolved.  The  amount  of  brine  necessary^  to 
cover  the  vegetables  will  l>e  about  equal  to  one-half  the  volume 
of  the  material  to  be  fermented*  This  is  very  easily  calculatc<i 
by  knowing  the  contents  of  the  container  used.  For  example^  if 
a*5-gaIlon  keg  is  to  be  packed,  2X4  gallons  will  be  needed.  It  is 
best  to  make  up  at  one  time  all  the  brine  needed  on  one  day. 
A  clean  tub  or  barrel  can  be  used  for  mixing  the  brine.  Pour  the 
brine  over  the  vegetables  and  cover  as  descril^cd  on  page  594. 
Set  the  vessel  and  its  contents  away  in  a  moderately  warm  room 
to  ferment.  When  fermentation  has  stopped,  the  container 
should  be  placed  in  a  cool  cellar  or  storeroom  and  the  surface 
of  the  liquid  treated  to  prevent  mold  by  one  of  the  methods  de- 
scribed above.  Before  adding  the  paraffin  or  cottonseed  oil, 
any  scum  or  mold  which  may  ha%^c  formed  on  the  surface  of  the 
liquid  should  be  removed  by  skimming. 

Experience  has  shown  that  the  following  vegetables  may  be 
presented  satisfactorily  l>y  fermenting  in  brine:  cucumbers, 
string  beans,  grtM^n  tomatoes,  Ijeets,  beet  tops,  tui'nip  tops,  corn, 
and  green  peas.  The  general  directions  given  above  should  be 
followed,  but  some  mollifications  are  desirable  in  the  preserving 
of  individual  vegetables  by  this  method. 

Sailing  without  ferme^ilaliorL 

In  this  method  the  vegctal>les  are  packed  with  enough  salt  to 

prevent  fermentation  or  the  growth  of  yeasts  or  molds.     The 


598 


A  MANUAL  OF  TtOME-MAKINO 


following  direetioos  should  tw  foUowcxl  in  Milting  v 
\Va.sh  the  vegetaliloii,  drain  off  the  water,  and  then  we^ 
them.  For  each  KX)  pounds  of  vegetal>le!8  weigh  out  25  (lOUDili 
of  salt.  For  .smaller  qoaatities  use  the  same  proportion  d 
salt  (one-fourtli  of  the  weight  of  the  vegetables)*  S] 
a  layer  of  tiie  vf^getal)les  alxiut  1  inch  deep  on  the  bot! 
of  a  clean  keg,  tub,  or  crock,  and  sprinkle  heavily  with 
of  the  salt.  Try  to  distriljute  ilie  salt  evenly  among  tht 
different  layers  packed  so  that  the  quantity  weighed  out  wiD 
be  ju8t  enough  to  pack  the  vegetables.  Continue  adding  lajfcn 
of  vegetal>les  and  salt  until  the  container  is  nearly  full  and  iheo 
cover  with  the  clean  cloth,  board,  and  weight,  a^*  in  the  caw  of 
fiTnientation  by  tiry  salting.  The  keg  or  other  coiit^iiner  abonU 
then  be  set  aside  in  a  cool  place.  If  the  salt  and  prensure  of  tile 
weight  have  not  extracted  sufficient  brine  to  cover  the  vugt* 
tables,  after  24  hours,  prepare  a  strong  brine  by  dissolving  1 
pound  of  salt  in  2  quarts  of  water  and  pour  enough  of  thij  Wif 
the  vegetables  tti  come  up  to  the  round  wcKxien  cover.  Tbere 
will  be  a  small  amount  of  bubbling  at  the  start,  as  in  the 
of  the  fernienteil  vegctalilcs,  but  Hris  will  not  continue  bos. 
Just  as  soon  :is  the  bubbling  hai<  stoppeti,  the  surface  of  the  Iiqiliii 
should  be  jirotected  by  one  of  the  methods  described  on 
page  505. 

Experiments  have  shown  that  the  following  vegetables  may  btj 
satisfactorily  prescrv(^i  l>y  the  above  methocl:  dandelions,  beei' 
tops,  turnip  tops,  spinach,  chard,  kale,  cabbage,  striJig  J 
green  peas,  and  com. 

Care  and  stomge. 

If  properly  prepared  and  stored,  fermented  and  sfilrinl  prS? 
ucts  will  keep  for  a  long  time.  It  is  absolutely  nece>.s:in  lo 
prevent  rnoltl  from  growing  on  the  surface  of  the  brim*  ii(  fer- 
mented vegetaljles  by  the  addition  of  paraffin  or  in  some  oUier 
way.  Protection  of  the  surface  of  salted  vegetables  is  deedmbfe, 
but  not  necessary  if  the  containers  are  coverwl  to  ^  *  the 

evaporation  of  the  brine.    Practically  all  of  the  trout  ^  the 

fermented  or  salted  producta  may  lie  ti*aced  to  carelessnces  m 


DerB^ 

ongM 
quid  f 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


S99 


protecting  the  surface  of  the  hv'uw.  In  rase  mold  should  de- 
velop upon  the  surface  or  the  brine  should  become  evaporated 
so  that  the  upper  layers  of  the  toad  spoil,  this  does  not  mean 
necessarily  that  the  entire  contents  of  the  vessel  have  spoiled, 
even  though  the  upper  layers  may  have  a  very  disagreeable 
odor.  The  molds  and  olher  organisnis  which  cause  the  spoil- 
ing do  not  penetrate  rapidly  lo  the  lower  layers,  and  by  care- 
fully removing  the  spoiled  material  from  the  top,  adding  a 
little  fresh  brine  and  pouriiif^  hot  paraffin  on  the  top,  the  re- 
mainder of  the  contents  of  the  vessel  may  be  saved.  After 
fermentation  lias  ceased,  the  containers  of  salted  and  fermented 
vegetables  should  be  stored  in  a  cool  place.  They  should  be 
protected  from  rats,  mice,  and  vermin,  which  might  eat  through 
the  paraffin  layer  and  get  at  the  contents. 

Preparation  offerfnented  and  salted  pegetabks  for  the  table. 

Some  fermented  and  salted  vegetables,  like  cucumberc,  are 
e^ten  raw;  others,  like  cabbage  (sauerkraut),  are  usually  cooked. 
In  general  the  fermc*nted  and  salted  products  may  be  prepared 
for  the  table  in  much  the  same  manner  as  the  fresh  vegetables, 
except  that  l>efore  being  cooked  they  should  Ije  soaked  in  fresh 
water  for  several  hoyi-s  or  longer,  if  necessar>%  to  remove  the 
salt,  the  water  being  change<i  several  times.  In  some  cases  it 
may  be  necessary  also  to  change  the  water  once  or  twice  during 
the  boiling  of  the  salttKl  vegetables.  In  this,  one  should  be 
guided  i>y  taste. 

Fermented  vegetables,  after  being  removed  from  the  con- 
tainer, should  lie  rinsed  thoroughly  in  frej^h  water  and  then 
cookecl  without  soaking  if  a  prodiiet  having  a  decidedly  acid 
flavor  is  desired.  If  one  does  not  dtssire  the  acid  flavor,  it  may, 
be  modifitnl  to  any  extent  or  removed  almost  entirely  by  soak- 
ing the  fermented  vegetables  as  directed  above  for  the  salted 
proiluet. 

CANNING 

Successful  preservation  of  food  by  carming  depends  on  two 
things:  first,  the  sterilization  of  the  food  and  the  can,  that  is, 
the  complete  destruction  by  heat  of  all  life  in  or  on  the  food, 


600 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKIXG 


I 


I 


uiid  on  all  {mvls  of  the  can  that  are  to  come  in  contiiri  «i* 
food;  second,  Hul>scquent  care  to  prevent  further  on 
micro-organisms. 

The  prcsc^nce  of  air  in  a  can  will  not  clause  (ntnl  to  spoil, 
vided  the  air  is  sterile,  that  is,  freetl  from  all  living  organi 
A  half-filletl  can  of  fruit  will  keep  perfectly  if  fruit,  riin.  rubber^^ 
and  cover  are  sterile,  if  the  air  space  alx)ve  the  fruit  is  stmfe, 
and  if  niicro-orgaiiiams  cannot  ent^jr  the  can.  The  precaulioQ 
soRietinies  taken  to  run  a  knife  or  a  spcKHi  down  the?  mli^  of  i< 
can  in  order  to  remove  the  few  buhliles  that  may  1h*  there,  is 
consequently  unnecessary.  Unless  the  s.[K)on  or  knife  has  been 
boiled,  its  use  in  removing  air  may  even  endanger  the  kt?cptng 
qualities  of  a  can  of  food,  for  it  may  hold  organisms  tlmt  thus 
find  their  way  into  the  can. 

It  is  now  known  that  some  micro-organisms  that  causae  foocb 
to  spoil  may  assume  two  forms,  the  spore  and  the  vcgetatiTe 
fonn.  When  conditions  are  unfavorable  to  their  grrowth.  they 
go  into  the  spore  form,  cease  growitig  and  repnxlucinK,  and  tie- 
come  inactive  and  ver>^  resistant  to  the  influence  of  heat.  1%  » 
their  methoii  of  tiding  over  a  hard  time. 

In' the  sjM>re  fonn  micro-organisms  are  much  more  diiBcult  to 
destroy  than  in  the  vegetative  form,  and  some  of  tin  dJe 

to  resist  for  many  hours  a  temperature  even  us  IukIi  oil- 

ing point  of  water.  During  a  dry  season  s|)orei*  occur  much 
more  frequently  than  usunl  on  fruits  and  vegetables,  and  the 
difliculties  of  successful  canning  may,  therefore,  be  po^^^tly 
increased.    As  soon  as  growth  conditions  become  f  '• — 

when  warmth,  moisture,  and  food  are  suppliixl — ^=]f  ;^ii 

changing  over  to  the  active,  growing,  vegetative  fomi,  and  in 
their  gieater  liveliness  they  lose  much  of  their  jjower  to  resist 
heat,  cold,  and  other  unfavorable  influenc<?s.  These  fact« 
explain  why  canned  focxls  sometimes  spoil  evt»n  after  loiip^  boil- 
ing and  careful  and  complete  sealing;  the  boiling  tempemtare 
may  not  have  been  sufficient  to  destroy  the  spores,  which  Hxm 
change  over  to  the  active  grow ing  state.  The  problem  ol  suc- 
cessful canning  is,  therefore*,  how  even  the  most  resistant  miotH 
organisms  may  lie  killed. 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


601 


The  coniniereial  canner  has  salved  the  problem  of  steriliza- 
tion by  the  use  of  steam  under  pressure.  In  this  way  a  tempera- 
ture higher  than  the  boiling  point  of  water,  and  hence  nnore  de- 
struetive,  is  olvtained.  With  a  sufficiently  high  temperature,  a 
relatively  short  time  of  cooking  is  required  to  steriUze  food. 

Equipfnerit  for  canning. 

If  canning  is  to  be  done  successfully,  even  on  a  small  scale, 
it  is  necessary  to  have  some  equipment  that  will  lighten  labor 
and  save  time.    Such  equipment  may  be  bought  especially  for 


Fio.  123, — Steriliaer.  showing  false  bottom  aa  a  rack. 

the  purpose,  or  it  may  be  made  from  something  already  on 
hand.  If  possible,  a  canner  should  be  seen  in  operation  before 
it  is  bought. 

If  the  so-called  cold-paek  method  (page  606)  is  used,  the  first 
and  most  essential  part  of  the  canning  equipment  i^  a  recep- 
tacle in  which  the  cans  of  food  may  l>e  steamed  or  boileij.  This 
receptacle  and  its  parts  are  generally  spoken  of  as  tlie  canner  or 
the  canning  outfit.  Caniiers  suitable  for  home  use  are  of  four 
general  types:  (I)  hot-water  outfits;  (2)  steam  cookers;  (3) 
water-seal  outfits;  (4)  steam-pressure  outfits. 

While  a  small  hot-water  canner  may  easily  be  devised  at 


602 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


i  i* 


home,  as  suggeBted  Ln  the  following  paragraph,  ita 
is  limited  by  its  small  capacity  and  the  amount  f»r 
recjtiires.    Commercial  outfits  capable  of  accomim  >  'Gi- 

paratively  lar^e  quantities  with  convenience  are   briedf  dB*- 
cussed  in  succeed inijj  paragraphs, 

A  home-made  hot-water  caiiner  may  be  canstnictecl  Oill  of 
any  utensil  that  is  large  enough  to  hold  a  number  of  cans,  ifaal 


Fio.     124*— C^omrnerciAl    hot-water   CAtmifiC 
outfit  for  out-of-door  work, 

is  deep  enough  to  allow  the  cans  to  be  completely  covi*rpd  witli  j 
lx>iling  water,  and  that  is  capable  of  l)ejjig  fitted  with  a  rac*k,| 
or  false  bottom,  to  pn^vent  the  cans  from  resting  on  the  iKittotdl 
of  the  receptacle,  and  to  insure  the  free  cin*ulation  of  wat4?f  ^ 
in  I  lie  boiler  (Fig.  123)*  A  tight-fitting  cover  that  utI!  rrtain 
as  much  heat  as  possible  will  help  to  siive  fuel  A  i  in  sap-bucket, 
a  large  tin  oyster^pail,  or  a  clothes  boiler  may  be  eoovert^d  mtQ 


A 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


a  hot-water  canner  to  meet  the  ri?quirements  of  the  individual 
housekeeper. 

A  numtrjcr  of  simple  hot-water  outfits  are  now  on  the  market. 
The  main  advantages  that  they  have  over  those  adapted  at 
home  from  some  other  equipment  are  that  they  will  hold  more 
cans  at  one  time,  and  that  they  have  perforated  trays,  with 


Fio*  125.-  Stt-^vni  cooker. 

handles,  on  which  a  number  of  cans  may  be  lowered  into  and 
lifted  from  the  canner  at  one  time.  Such  trays  may  and  should 
be  made  for  the  home-made  outfit.  The  commercial  hot-water 
outfits  are  often  equipped  with  a  lire-box,  which  makes  it  pos- 
sihlc  to  use  them  outdooi-s  if  desired  (Fig.  124), 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKIXG 


604 


The  steam  cooker  (Fig.  125)  is  light  iti  weight  and 
hiiiKlkxI.    It  is  a  better  shape  than  the  boiler  for  use  on  n 
and  is  far  more  economical  in  the  amount  uf  fuel  required. 
may  be  used  throughout  the  year,  since  it  is  adu 
dinar>^  cooking  as  well  as  for  canning.    Food  that  » 
a  steamer  retains  its  shape  well.    The  time  of  cooking 
in  the  time-table  must  be  somewhat  increased  becauj=ie 
peratnrc  is  likely  to  be  i^lightly  lower  than  the  boilixi^ 
water.    Steamers  are  matle  in  copper  and  in  tin. 

The  cover  of  the  water-,seal  outtit  is  so  devised  t  hat  :i 
water  holds  it  down  tight,  and  thus  the  steam  in  tlie  tspsur 
above  the  cans  is  held  under  slight  pressure.  The  teniperatuji? 
of  steam  under  pressure  is  above  that  of  boiling  water.  Hence 
with  the  water-seal  outfit  the  time  needed  for  sterilizatioti  may 
be  somewhat  nxluced.  The  efficiency  of  such  an  nut  fit  dnnoiKb 
on  the  amount  of  pressure  produced. 

When  steam  is  held  under  considerable  pr^eure,  i<  urei 

much  higher  than  that  of  boiling  water  may  be  ol>  ,md 

the  rise  in  temperature  is  in  direct  proportion  to  the  nse 
pressure.    A  numlier  of  good  portable  curmers  in  which  a  pre** 
sure  from  five  to  fifteen  pounds  may  be  obtained  are  now  on 
market. 

Steam-pressure  canners  are  the  most  succe^ssful  for  almost  oB 
kinds  of  vegetables  and  meats,  l>ecause  the  greater  heat  ob- 
tained in  them  effects  complete  sterilization  in  a  eompanitiveb' 
short  time  and  during  one  cooking.  Hence  tune,  hilKjr,  and  beat 
are  saved. 

The  equipment  is  the  same  as  for  hot-water  outfits,  with  the 
a<idition  of  a  steam  gauge,  a  pet  cock,  and  a  thermometer*  In 
some  cases  when  canning  is  done  in  tin  cans^  a  blaj^t  furnace  m 
supplied,  together  with  the  soldering  ixnAs,  Some  outfits  in 
chide  a  boiler,  a  crate^  a  soldering  outfit^  and  arrangemeDta  for 
a  fire  pot. 

There  are  many  kinds  of  jars  on  the  market.  Th^  best  jar 
is  one  tJmt  is  simple  in  construction,  that  can  be  sealed  per- 
fectly and  washed  ciisily,  that  protects  the  contained  food 
against  contact  with  metahf^  that  has  the  fewest  parts  to  tie  kol 


Old 

I 
I 

I 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


605 


or  misplaced,  and  that  fits  the  shelves  and  receptacles  planned 
to  hold  it.  The  glass  should  be  clear  with  no  bubbles,  and  the 
jar  should  be  smooth  both  inside  and  outside.  The  color  of  the 
glass,  whether  white  or  green,  has  no  effect  on  retaining  the 
color  of  the  food.    The  type  of  jar  that  seems  to  give  most 


12f3. — Mnaapr 
t<;sting  a  jar. 


Fro.  127.— Poaition 
of  rlamp  during 
stenlization. 


Fio.  128.— FoaitJoti 
of  r[;imp  after 
sterilization. 


general  satisfaction  is  one  with  a  wide  mouth  and  straight  side 
and  with  a  glass  cover  clamped  on  with  some  metal  device. 

A  glaas  jar  should  be  testeil  before  it  is  used  (Fig.  126).  The 
finger  should  be  run  around  the  e<ige  of  the  jar  as  well  as  the  lid 
wiiere  the  rubber  rests,  to  determine  whether  the  glass  is  smooth. 
Filing  may  be  necessarj\ 

A  jar  with  a  wire  clamp  should  have  the  lid  plaeetl  on  it,  and 
the  lid  should  be  tapped.  If  it  rocks,  the  jar  is  imperfect. 
When  t!ie  rubber  is  adjusted  and  the  lid  is  placed  on  the  jar, 
the  wire  damp  should  snap  oo.  It  may  be  necessary  to  remove 
tlie  bail  and  either  to  straighten  it  or  to  bend  it  more  in  order 


600  A   MANUAL  (IF  HOME-MAKING 

to  tighten  or  loosen  the  M  iis  the  case  may  require, 
of  the  ry]jl>er  may  be  caused  liy  too  tight  a  clamp. 

A  mason  jar  may  be  tested  by  placing  the  lid  on  it  wiUunit  & 
rubber  and  attempting  to  insert  the  thumb  nail  betweeo  the 
lid  and  the  jar.  If  this  can  be  done,  the  jar  is  dcfc^ctive.  Ad* 
other  test  h  to  at  1  just  the  rubl>er  and  the  lid  am  J  to  pull  out  tfce 
rubber  in  one  place.  If  the  rubber  stays  out,  the  jar  i» 
if  it  sijriiijj^  back,  the  jar  is  defective. 

The  teMing  of  any  ty|x^  of  jar  may  be  accomplishecl  hy  fii 
the  jar  partly  with  Imiling  water,  fidjusting  the  rover  and 
nibber,  an* I  sealing  and  invert i Jig  the  jar.  If  it  leaku,  it  sbtmld 
be  examined  to  determine  whether  the  leakage  is  clue  to  mn 
iniperft^ct  jar,  a  poor  rubfjer.  or  to  imjiroper  adjustment  of  the 
wire  clamp,  in  case  a  wire  clamp  is  used.  If  any  defe^^i  nottoed 
cannot  be  remedietl»  the  jar  should  l)e  reserved  for  pickles  or 
some  food  that  does  not  require  sealing. 

New  rubbers  should  be  used  each  year.  Old  rublier  loee^  ttt 
elasticity,  anil  may  cause  iiufK^fect  sealing  and  thus  endanger 
the  kee|>iog  of  the  food.  A  good  rubber  is  elastic,  not  britllt, 
and  will  not  break  easily  w^hen  stretched.  Care  should  be  given 
to  the  selection  of  good  rubbers,  for  even  new  ones  may  l^e  stifTt 
inelastic,  and  liard,  or  may  contain  no  rubber  at  all  Somd 
rul>bers  on  the  markt^t  impart  sti  dis^agreeable  a  flavor  and  odw 
to  the  canned  food  that  it  must  be  discarded.  Good  rubber* 
are  liard  to  procure^  but  nothing  less  than  the  best  should  ho 
accepted.  They  are  more  expensive  than  poor  rubbers^  but  in 
the  end  they  cost  less. 


tftthe 
dttel 

I 
I 


BlaricMng. 

Blanching  is  an  important  preUminar>'  step  in  the  cold-paek 
tnethcMl  of  canning.  It  is  used  for  s<jme  fruits  and  may  bi!  uaed 
for  all  vegetables.  Blanching  may  be  done  with  either  boiliag 
water  or  steam. 

When  boiling  water  is  used,  the  fruit  or  the  vegdelable  tt 
placed  in  a  piece  of  cheeseK'loth  or  a  crate,  lowered  eotindy 
under  the  water,  and  heated  for  the  required  numlx*r  of  miuutis 
(pages  GI2  to  614).     Only  a  small  quantity  of  the  produel 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


should  bo  blanched  at  a  time  in  order  that  the  water  may  be 
kept  tis  near  the  boiling  point  aa  possil>le* 

Delicately  fiavorwi  greens  are  generally  blanched  by  steam 
in  order  to  avoid  the  loss  of  iron  and  other  nutrients  that  oc- 
curs when  they  are  inimemed  in  boiling  water.  For  hlancliing 
in  steam,  the  food  is  placed  in  some  perforateil  utensil  or  a 
piece  of  cheese-eloth  and  suspended  in  a  tightly  closed  steamer. 
The  food  should  be  lilanched  until  no  further  shrinkage  will 
occur;  Blanching  in  steam  generally  requir-es  n  longer  time 
than  blanching  in  boiling  water.  The  Hteani  nmsfr  penetrate 
to  all  parts  of  the  mass,  and  for  this  reason  the  fruits  or  vege- 
tables should  not  be  crowded  together.  Blanching  in  steam 
is  not  recommend tH I  for  strong-flavorefl  greens. 

Blanching  may  accomplish  one  or  more  rc^sults:  (1)  it  helps 
to  insure  a  ck>se  pack  either  by  contracting  the  tissue  and 
making  the  product  flexible,  as  in  the  case  of  string  beans 
and  asparagus,  or  by  causing  a  decided  shrinkage,  rui  with 
greens;  (2)  it  may  partly  eliminate  strong  acids  or  i utter  flavors; 
(3)  it  may  set  the  color;  (4)  it  ]>egins  the  sterilization  of  the  food ; 
(5)  it  loosens  the  skins  of  ceriain  fruits  and  vegetables  from 
the  pulp  so  that  they  may  lie  slitiped  or  scrapetl  off  easily,  as 
in  the  case  of  peaches,  tomatocvs,  or  carrots.  When  blanching 
serv^es  this  last  purpose,  it  is  frequently  calletl  scalding.  Blanch- 
ing may  not  be  necessary  but  it  is  believed  to  give  a  superior 
product  in  many  cases. 

The  cold  tlip  is  the  rapid  chilling  of  the  outside  of  the  blanched 
fruit  or  vegetable  by  plunging  it  into  cold  wiiter.  While  the 
food  may  neeil  to  be  cold  dipped  in  order  to  be  c€H:>led  sufBciently 
to  make  it  easily  handled  and  to  insure  the  cooling  of  the  center 
of  the  mass,  it  should  not  he  allow^ed  to  remain  long  in  the 
cold  water. 


Sirups* 

The  thickness  of  sirup  for  canning  fruits  depends  on  the  kind 
of  fruit  w^ith  which  it  is  to  be  used  and  the  richnass  of  the 
prmluct  desired. 

In  order  to  obtain  three  grades  of  sirup  for  ordinary  use  in 


608 


A   MAX  UAL  OF  UOMK-MAKINO 


airining,  r.ugar  and  water  may  be  combined  in    '  ^ri 

proportions  and  heated  only  until  the  sugar  is  dis-  Yu^ 

quantity  of  water  is  kept  constant  in  order  to  show  the  vanstiai| 
in  the  quantity  of  sugar  used. 

Thin  sirup  (about  a  SOper-cent  solution):  15^  cupfiaf  i 
and  4  eups  of  water.    This  sirup  may  be  used  for  such  fruitj i 
apples,  pears,  raspberries,  and  other  swrn^t  bf^rru^^^,  when  a  nrfc  I 
prcxluct  is  not  desirtxL 

Mt*diuni  sirup  (alx)ut  a  40-perHTMjt   suiutrori,!:  2*4  cupi  «tj 
sugar  and  4  cups  of  water.     This  sirup  may  be  UfseiJ  for  3 
fruits  as  swei^t  phmis,  blacklx'rries.  and  sweot  chcrriea 

Thick  sirup  (about  a  5.5-per-cent  solution):  5  eup9  of  i 
and  4  cups  of  water.    This  sirup  may  be  uswJ  for  such  fr 
as  peaches,  cherries,  or  pineapples  when  a  sweet  product  ii^ 
desired. 

A  still  tlucker  sirup  may  be  de.siml)Ie  for  rhubarb*  Roooe^ 
berries,  currants,  sour  cherries,  and  other  verj'  Soiir  fruits. 
Such  a  sirup  may  he  made  ljy  boiling  the  thick  sirup  until  it 
bt^gins  to  spin  a  thread  instead  of  using  it  when  the  sugar  hii 
Just  dissolved. 

Methods  of  cannififf. 

Two  methods  of  canning  are  commonly  used  both  in  tlit 
household  and  in  the  canning  factory,  the  open-kettle  method 
and  the  cold-pack  method. 

The  open-kettle  method  is  so  called  because  the  food  to  bt 
canned  is  completely  cooked  in  a  kettle  and  then  poured  loto 
the  jar.  llnless  the  jar,  the  cover,  the  rublier^  and  iH 
ufetisils  that  come  in  contact  with  tlie  fwKl  have  becfi 
boiled  for  twenty  minutes  before  the  jars  are  fiUetl,  and  unli!a» 
the  work  is  carefully  done,  there  is  alwaj's  the  risk  that  the 
food  will  be  reinfected  anfi  that  it  may  spoil  after  the  jar  has 
been  sealed.  For  some  praiucts,  such  as  preserves,  consenroi, 
jams,  and  marmalades,  for  which  condensiition  and  heat  more 
intense  than  that  of  boiling  water  ure  needed,  the  (>pim*kettlf 
method  must  still  Ije  used.  For  beet«,  the  open-kettle  method 
18  recommended,  because  the  skins  can  be  removed  after  the 


FOOD  PRESERVATION^ 


m 


cooking,  and  thus  less  color  is  lost.    Many  persons  prefer  the 
open-kettle  method  for  rannin^  strawl)erties  and  tomatoes. 

In  the  SQ  culled  cokl-pack  method,  the  unrt)oke<l  or  partly 
cooked  fruit,  vegetable,  or  other  food  Ls  packeil  in  a  can;  the 
food  is  eovcred  with  some  liquid,  such  as  water,  sirup,  or  juire; 
and  both  the  jar  and  its  contents  are  heated  simultaneously 
in  boiling  water  or  steam.  This  method  may  be  useil  for  most 
fruits  and  all  vegetables.  It  is  reeommeuded  for  meats^  be- 
cause it  conserves  the  flavor  and  because  meat  may  thus  be 
canned  under  steam  pressui^e.  It  is  useil  by  all  canning  fac- 
tories for  simple  canned  vegetables,  fruits^  and  meats.  It  is  also  ' 
being  adopted  gratlually  by  huusekt^'pers,  sinre  in  genera!  li  is  a 
safer,  easier  way  of  camiing  most  foods  tlian  the  old  open-kettle 
method,  and  since  the  product  keeps  much  of  its  natural  flavor. 

Heat  may  be  applied  in  the  eold-pack  method  in  one  of  two 
ways: 

1,  Contiimously.  (a)  The  cans  may  be  coveixnl  with  boiling 
water  and  may  be  cooked  continuously  for  a  given  length  of 
time  and  seale<t.  (b)  The  cans  may  l»e  placed  in  a  pressure 
canner  and  cooked  under  steam  pressure  for  a  given  length  of 
time  and  sealeil. 

2.  Intermittently,  The  cans  may  be  covered  with  boiling 
water  anti  may  be*  cooked  for  a  stated  length  of  time  on  each  of 
three  succc^ssive  days^  being  sealeil  at  tlie  close  of  each  period 
of  heating. 

When  food  is  cooked  in  the  can  for  a  given  period  on  each  of 
three  successive  days,  the  process  is  calleti  intermittent  heating. 

Acid  or  sweet  foods  may  l>e  canned  safely  by  one  period  of 
heating.  It  is  not  always  safe  to  can  certain  non-acid  vege- 
tables by  a  single  perioit  unless  steam  pressure  is  used.  They 
may  keep  if  cooked  long  enough  Ijut  there  is  always  a  risk. 
This  is  !>ecause  of  the  possible  presence  on  them  of  resistant] 
spores  which  are  sometimes  able  to  survive  even  twelve  hours 
of  continuous  boiUng;  The  intermittent  method  seems  to 
be  safer  for  these  vegetables,  but  only  the  steam  pressure 
method  can  be  considered  wholly  safe.  Many  vegetabl€?s  ac- 
cepted by  the  housekeeper  as  having  kept  are  poor  in  both  flavor 


610 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


and  odor,  and  this  is  tlue  to  spoilage.    Foot!  that,  lias  kept  \ 
not  have  either  a  flat  or  a  sour  taste. 

Experiments  in  canning  seem  to  indicate  that  the  orgaaim 
kTio^;iii  as  botulinus  may  not  be  ilestroyed  either  by  the  ci»* 
tinuous  or  the  intcrnuttcnt  metho<ls  of  canning  in  hot  water. 
When  foods  are  catmerl  at  honie^  unless  the  presmire  codker  hiw 
been  nscd»  it  is  urpcefl  that  when  the  contents  are  removed  fwui 
the  can  fhey  )>e  fjoileil  for  several  minutes  lx?fore  besng  eftkst 
If,  for  example,  l>cans  are  to  lie  used  as  a  salad,  they  i^houJd  he 
boiled  first  and  then  cooled.     Such  a  procedure  makc^  for  isftf<^. 

For  peas,  beans,  corn,  asparaf^us,  greens,  pumpkmt  *id 
squash,  the  intermittent  method  of  canning  is  strongly  retool- 
mended,  unless  steam  pre,<siu"i*  is  used.  Many  canned  foocb» 
even  non-acid  ones,  may  keep  without  intermittent  heating 
if  the  time  of  boiling  is  long  enough,  but  there  scorns  to  l^e 
no  certainly  about  it.  Variations  in  soil,  moisture^  and  climatic 
conditions  from  year  to  yciir  may  causr?  a  failun*  one  yaaf 
whe!i  success  has  ahvays  before  attcndeil  the  one-pericx! 
of  cooking.  Even  with  the  three  jieriods  of  heating,  tht 
risk  of  spoilage,  if  the  first  perifwi  has  not  l>eeii  long 
or  if  too  long  a  time  elapses  between  the  first  and  seeonil  pieric 

The  intermittent  method  is  as  follows:  After  a  fotKl  U  canned, 
boiled,  and  sealed,  it  Ls  allowe<i  to  stand  for  twenty-four  hours 
at  room  temperature.  This  gives  time  for  sporen  to  ehait|?r 
to  the  vegetative  form  which  they  will  do  when  warmth  and 
food  are  supplietl.  The  canned  food  is  then  cooked  a  ^tcond 
time  in  order  to  destroy  the  vegetative  forms,  and,  ^till  8i*alcdr 
is  allowetl  to  stand  for  twenty-four  hours  at  room  tcmperatti 
Since  all  spores  may  not  have  changeil  during  the  first  twt^ti 
four  hours,  it  is  safer  to  allow  a  second  twenty-four  houis 
standing  and  a  third  period  of  cooking. 

The  high  temperatures  or  repeated  heatings   used  in 
canning  of  vegetables  are  not  only  troublesome  and  expeE 
but  often  injurious  to  the  fiavor  and  t^sCture.     Experimc 
the  University  of  California  *  have  developed  a  ver>^  simple  i 
certain  way  of  sterilizing  vegetables  as  easily  as  fruit.    This  i 
•  Crue^,  W.  V.    Circ.  158,  Agr.  Exp.  Sta.,  Univ.  of  Calif. 


FOOD  PRESEBVATION 


611 


sists  in  the  addition  of  a  little  acid  to  the  liquid  in  which  they 
are  canned.  It  was  found  that  peas  heated  to  212°  F.  in  a  brine 
acidified  by  the  addition  of  5  ounces  of  lemon  juice  to  every 
gallon,  kept  perfectly,  while  peas  heated  in  the  same  brine  with- 
out iemon  juice  spoiled*  The  same  results  were  obtained  wth 
beans,  pumpkins,  beets,  turnipB,  artichokes,  and  asparagus* 
Lai^e  ciuaotitic8  of  these  vegetables  are  lost  by  '* spoilage*'  in 
the  eommercial  canneries.  The  flavor  of  the  vegetables  steril- 
ized at  the  low  temperature  was  ranch  superior  to  that  of  those 
sterihzed  under  pressure. 

The  common  household  practice  of  canning  com  and  tomatoes 
together  owes  its  efficacy  to  the  same  principle.  Corn  alone  is 
very  difficult  to  sterilize^  owing  to  its  lack  of  acidity.  This  lack 
is  supplied  by  the  tomatoes  and  the  mixture  is  easily  preserved 
by  ordinary  heating.  Doobtless  other  wholesome  acids,  such  as 
vinegar,  citric,  or  tartaric  acid,  could  be  used  for  the  same  por- 
jxjse.  The  amount  of  acid  used  is  small  and  improves  rather 
than  injures  the  flavor. 

The  new  method  avoitls  both  the  ejcpense  of  a  pressure  cooker 
and  the  trouble  of  repe^ited  heatings,  and  can  l>e  highly  rec- 
omriiended  at  least  for  home  use.  It  consists  essentially  of 
making  the  vegetables  slightly  acid,  thus  rendering  them  as 
easy  to  sterilize  as  fruits.  Lemon  juice  or  vinegar  may  he  used 
to  acidify  brines.  If  ordinary  cider  vinegar  is  used,  twice  the 
amounts  given  for  lemon  juice  are  needed  (pEige  615). 

Directions  for  canning  fruit  by  the  cold-pack  m£thod.  * 

(1)  Sek^ct  wdl-gniwn,  limi,  arid  not  ovcrript'  fruit;  (2)  if  pos^sible,  CAn 
fnjit  on  the  day  that  it  ia  picketl;  (3)  wa**h,  prirr%  nr  othcn\'i»o  prepjiro  the 
fruit,  removing  all  bruised  or  decayed  part.^;  f  (f)  if  there  Is  nmcb  variatioa 
in  ake,  grade  the  fruit  so  that  the  content.^  of  each  jar  will  be  aa  nearly 

•The  open-kettle  method  is  preferred  !iy  niany  persons  for  canning 
fruitSj  especially  strawberries ^  pineappler^j  and  cnunces. 

t  Skins  of  peaches,  pUim^j  and  pears  may  be  removed  by  the  following 
method*  Brinp;  2  gallons  of  water  ft*  the  boiling  point.  Add  to  it  1  pound 
of  concentratiMl  ly*:'.  Lower  the  fruit  inlo  the  boiling  solution  in  ti  wire  ^ 
basket  or  a  thin  cloth.  Let  it  remain  fi*r  from  20  \o  30  sBOonds.  Remove 
ihc  fruit  fjuickly,  and  immerse  it  in  cold  water*  Then  wa'^h  the  peeling 
fn>m  the  fruit. 


,1    MAX  UAL  OF  UOME-MAKiSO 


uniform  as  ptKswiblo;  i,5}  if  food  '\s  to  be  blaiirhcHl,  hlanrh  oroeald  lll| 

watiT  a  smalt  quanlity  at  a  lime  (page  606),  the  numbfr  of 

quirc<]  for  bb\nchinn  being  given  in  Table  LllI ;  do  nal  blaocli  < 

berries,  or  plums;  (0)  if  blanched  food  is  to  be  cooled,  chill  thu  i 

ihe  blanched  fniit  by  immersing  it  for  a  brief  fK^riod  in  a  large  yimd4 

cold  water  (page  607),  and  do  not  attempt  to  ctx>l  the  fruit  ihoirotiid^^  ^ 

this  cold  dip;  (7)  pack  the  fruit  firmly  in  clean,  tested  jars  to  withta  H'aA 

of  the  t^>p;  (8)  fill  the  jai^  to  within  K  i^ich  of  the  top* with  bcMbag  im^ 

or  hot  water  (see  dinjctions  for  preparing  mnipa  on  pag«  €M)7);  (9)  fdw 

a  new  rubber  on  each  jar,  adjust  the  co\'er  of  the*  jar,  i*nd  ikArrb.  **al  r, 

and   if  using  the  hot-water  bath,   wann  the  c<iver  b 

(10)  wterilize  the  jars  for  the  recjuircd  lenj^th  of  time  (  i 

hot^water  bath  is  uschI,  immerse  the  jars  in  sufficicnf    r 

cover  the  lops  to  the  depth  of  about  1  inch,  and  do  not   I  i 

sterilizing  uutil  the  water  boib  over  the  jars;   kec-p    the 

during  the  Bterilizing  period;  (11)  remove  the  jara  fn>m  tin- 

them,  and  invert  them  to  cool,  avoiding  a  dnift  on  thr;  jarti,  ti 

them  as  rapidly  as  jMissitde;  (12)  v^mh  the  jam  thorvURhly,  b*    . 

aad  set  them  away,  storing  red  fruiU  In  a  dark  place  to  prcvtQC  horn  d 

color. 

Diredionsfor  canning  mgetahk^  by  the  cM^pack  nuikod, 

(1)  Choose  vegetaljlcs  that  are  young  and  have  m»cle  a  qtti<?k  gyovik 

(2)  Do  not  use  very  dirty  Vi^getablcs.    (3)  Can  vegetables  i 
sible  after  they  have  been  picked.     This  ia  particularly   n« 
af^p^ragUH,  pean,  beaas^  and  corn.     (4)  Clean  the  vt^'lables,  atsd 
them  as  for  cuoking.    (5)  Grade  the  vegetables,  if  thc?n?  is  mticb 
in  size,  so  that  the  cont^^nti^  of  each  jar  will  be  aa  nearl-    «.»»;>-. rm  in  isir 
as  poBsible.    (^)  Do  not  attempt  to  handle  (ot^i  targe  a  c)u;  .<gruh)ai 

at  onee,  especially  in  hot  weather.  The  varioiw  atept*  in  t L^  .  .«*».»j,g  pcoona 
must  be  folluwc<l  in  rapid  succession  to  prevent  loss  of  Qavor  fitita  what 
tx>mmereial  canners  know  as  flat  sour.  (7)  Blanch  or  Bcald  tli^  irr^eiMm 
by  plunging  them  int<>  a  large  quantity  of  boiUng  water  ipaec  006)*  The 
blanching  or  scalding  should  be  continued  just  long  enough  to  iiuikit  tll# 
vegetables  sufficient ly  flexible  to  pack  ea.'^ily,  or  to  loosen  tli0  skins  wff* 
ciently  to  allotv  them  t<>  be  quickly  scraped  ofT  (Tables  LIU  to  LV).  $|sili* 
nch  and  certain  other  delicately  flavored  greens  fthould  be  blanched  in  tUtm 
instead  of  in  boiling  wat<*r,  until  they  are  tliorought'  -LmhVofi  ,^\  r|i|j| 
tht*  outside  of  the  vegetable?*  by,  immersing  them  «;  ^md 

of  cold  water.    Do  not  att^^mpt  to  ei>*il  the  vr^eLJ.  Ly  tliii 

fold  dip.    This  st*'p  may  be  omitted*     (9)  Pack  the  v.  finalf  IB 

dean,  iest<Hl  jars  h)  within  J^  inch  of  the  top.  (10)  Add  j^  ,  ■  ^i^fpooafal 
of  salt  to  each  pint  jar,  8f>nie  vc^Mubles  are  imprnvt-d  by  the*  adilttaoo  id 
a  ftniall  amount  of  sugar  tt3  well  (11)  Fill  the  jare  with  boilm^  watir  to 
within  Ji  inch  of  the  top,    (12)  Place  a  new  rubber  oo  each  jar,  i  ^ 


FOOD  PREfiERVATION 


613 


cover,  and  partly  seal  it.  Place  the  jarB  in  a  hot-water  hath  or  & 
pressure  cooker.  (13)  Sl^-rilixt^  the  jiirs  for  the  requirefl  len^h  of  time 
(Tahiti  LXIII-LXV).  Aeid  vepetabk?^,  sueh  as  tomntoe?:,  mny  usually 
be  BuccessfuUy  sterilized  by  Ike  oneKlay,  or  continuous^  methoti  It  Ls 
recommended  that  peas,  beans,  corn,  succot4ii*h,  greens ^  asparagua, 
pumpkin,  and  .*«qna*?h  hv.  sterilixtHl  by  the  thrrnvday,  or  intennitlentj 
method,  unless  a  steam  pressure  canner  is  used.  If  the  liot -water 
bath  hi  u.se<J,  the  l>i>iling  water  should  cover  the  t^ps  of  the  Jars  to 
the  cU^pth  of  about  1  inch.  Do  not  begin  t<i  time  the  sterihzing 
until  the  w^ater  boils  over  the  jara.  Keep  the  water  boihng  during  the 
sterilizing  period.  (It)  Hcmove  the  jars  from  the  sterilizer,  seal  them, 
and  invert  them  to  cool  Avoid  a  dnd't  on  the  jars,  but  cool  them  as 
quickly  a,s  possible,. especially  in  canninp;!;  i*eas,  beans,  tK*rn,  asparagus,  and 
greens.  (15)  If  the  enntinuous  method  of  sterilization  him  btn^n  used,  the 
canning  is  now  coniplete*h  Wiv^h  the  jars,  hd)e!  them,  and  srt  them  away. 
If  the  intermittent  method  is  being  ustxl,  Ifl  the  cans  stand  for  24  hours 
at  room  temperature,  and  sterilize  them  for  1  hour  on  the  seciond  day. 
Remove  the  jars  from  the  Bterilister,  cool  them,  and  let  them  stand  for 
24  hours  at  room  temperature.  Sterilize  them  for  1  hour  on  the  thini  da^'. 
It  is  safer  to  loosen  the  wire  clamps  e^ch  time  bcfon^  returning  the  jars 
to  the  hot-water  bath,  OjoI  the  jars,  wash  them,  label  Ihem,  and  set 
them  away.  Red  vegetables  should  be  stored  in  a  dark  place  to  prevent 
loss  of  color. 

Diredionsfor  canning  meed  by  Uie  cold-pack  method. 
Continuous  sterilization  is  necessary  for  meats  canned  by 
tbe  eold-pack  method.  A  fowl  weighing  2  pounds  when  dressed 
should  make  a  pint  ean  of  solid  meat  and  a  pint  of  stock  thick 
enoogh  to  jeUy,  A  fowl  weighing  3  pounds  should  fill  IJ/q  pii^t 
cans, 

(!)  Select  meat  in  perfect  condition.  Sterilizing  will  not  render  spoiled 
meat  hixnnless.  Tough  cuts  lend  themselves  well  to  canning,  (2)  Trim 
oft  dark-colore<i  or  strong-smelling  portions,  and  surplus  fat.  Wij>e  the 
meat  well  with  a  damp  cloth.  Save  the  bonea  for  soup  stoek.  (H)  Free 
the  meat  from  bone^,  and  cut  it  in  pie*M:«  .suitable  for  packing  in  the  jars. 
Touf^h  eut^  of  beef  are  sometimes  passes  I  thrtiugh  a  meat-ch  upper  befoi^ 
they  are  eanne<L  (4)  If  addiiional  flavor  is  de^-^ircsl,  partly  bnjwn  the  meat 
in  a  heav>'  frying  pan,  using  a  small  quantity  of  fat.  (5)  Pack  the  raw 
meat  solidly  into  tc?sted  clean  glass  jars,  filling  them  to  within  %  inch  of 
the  top-  (6)  Add  l^^  Uy  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  for  each  pint  nf  meat,  and 
other  seasoning,  such  as  choppetl  onion^  celen^  leaves,  or  bay  leaf,  if  de- 
sirc^d.  Add  no  water.  (7)  Arljust  the  rubbers  and  the  t^jvers,  and  paxtiy 
seal  the  jars,     (8)  Sterilize  the  jars  in  the  pressure  rooker. 


B^I^^^V 

614                 A   MANUAL  OF  HOME  MAKING              ^H 

For  soup  stock  all  hones  and  triinniiiigs  of  the  canoed  mtf^ 

should  he  eovert^l  with  cold  water,  ftalt(*<i»  and  ftlowfy  8iniiii0el 

until  the  flesh  dro|>s  in  shreds  from  the  bone&«»  mid  the  liquidL 

or  stock,  is  concent rateil.    i^iisoning,  such  as  onion  and  %  hii 

of  celery  leaf,  may  be  added.    The  ntock  may  be  s'      '      !  if  \^ 

sired,  rehcattHi,  and  boiled   for  10  minutes.     It  feb             imht 

poured  into  scalded  jars,  and  sterilized  for  1  hour  ou  each  of  two 

successive  days.                                                                         ^^^ 

TABLE  LIIL— A  ri\u>TABr.K  for  Caxntno  Fiterm,  ArtD  V'KOTralH 

AND  Meats  by  the  .Sincjle,  or  t'oNTiNuors,  PfcntoD  or  Hi^TlKO        ^ 

Food 

Timf  of 
blanching 

Time  of  cookinff  in  pitU  jan 

1/ ihe  fmi-mtkr 
balh  iM  tutrd 

^mktr  iff  mmi 

Miimten 

Mmut(«      1 

Apple  Ciller 
Apples.  , 

20 

13 

1-2 

20-:jo 

10 

ApriwiU*  -  . 

1-2 

Hi 

10 

Blarkbprriea,  clewtwrriw 

irt 

0 

C*hcrries 

16 

10 

Fruit  jiiier«.  , 

'20 

10 

Gravies 

10 

10 

Hucklehorrit^ 

10 

s 

Pejijches. 

i-2 

IW 

10 

Pears 

1-2 

20 

10 

PirieftppU's 
Pluma    . 

00 

40 

_. . 

la 

10 

Quinces 

1-2 

00 

4a 

Kaspbcrri<»s 

10 

8 

KbuhaH»      

1  -2 

10 

10 

8  tra  wherries* 

10 

10 

S(iuerkr:iut,  ,  , 

120 

60 

TrmiftUM^ 

1-1! 

22 

10 

IVimutoi*  ami  <^»>rn 

9t] 

fiO 

Toriittto  Juiee 

20 

15 

Mc^t         .  . , 

lino 

180 

M 

FOOD  PRESERVATION 


615 


TABLE  LIV. — ^A  Timb-Tablb  for  Canning  Vegetables  by  Three 
Periods  of  Heating,  or  the  bo-caixed  iNTBRMnrBNT  Method 


Food 

Time  of 
blanching 

Time  of  cooking  in  pint  jar  f 

First  day 

Second  and  third  days 

Asparagus 

Beans 

Minutes 
5 
5 

6-10 
6-10 
5 
5-10 

6-10 
5 

"*5  ' 

Minutes 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60-75 

60 
60 
75 
75-90 

75 
60 

Minutes 
60 
60 

•Beets 

Carrots 

60 
60 

Cauliflower 

Com 

60 

60-75  (depending  on  closeness 

of  pack) 
60 
60 

Parsnips 

PpfVf, 

Pumpkin 

Spinach  and 
other  greens 

Squash  . .  . : 

Succotash 

75 

75-90  (depending  on  closeness 

of  pack) 
75 
60 

*  A  good  method  for  canning  beets  is  to  cook  them  in  the  open  kettle 
before  they  are  pared  until  they  are  almost  done,  and  then  pare  them  and 
sterilize  them  for  1  hour  in  the  jars. 

t  For  quart  jars  10  to  15  minutes  additional  time  should  be  allowed 
each  day;  for  2-quart  jars  30  minutes  should  be  added. 


616 


A  MAaNUAL  of  HOME-MAKLVa 


TABLE   LV. — A   Time-Table   pdr   Can^jing    Vegktabljs   wiTii 
pREBHURK  Cooker  or  nr  the  Single  Pekiod   op   HEATf?fo  f*  wi 
Wateh  Bath 


Food 


*Aspa,TupiS . .  . 
•Beans  ,♦.*♦.. 

Beets ,  ., 

Carrots. ..,.,, 
Cauliflower  , . . 
•Com,.,. .,. . 
Parsnips ...... 

•Peas 

Pumpkin  . . . .. 
*Spinach  mid 

othef  greeaa, 
SquBsh  .,..»,. 
*Succotash . , .  ♦ 
Meat *  * 


Time  of 
blanching 


Minutes 
B 
5 

(I- 10 

6-10 

5 

6-10 

5-10 

5 


Time  of  cookinffin  pini /arm 


When  the  hoi  water 
hiih  i*  Hjfcd  (a 
Hnk^  mtlhod  f&t 
the  vegetable n 
starred) 


Minute 
ISO  ifwt  odeiMcil 
180  iua  adt^^ed) 
120-180 

120-180 

180 

180  (nM  adtined) 

ISO 

180  (wii  adinjitd) 

200 

200  (not  adt%sed} 

200 

180  (not  OilmJte^D 

300 


oooi^r 


ike 


W  pt>umtM 


40 
OSO 
40 
40 
40 
GO 
40 
30 
40 

40 
40 

40 
60 


FOOD  PRESERVATION  617 

TABLE  LVl, — Use  or  Acm  in  Cajmninq  Vegetabi*b8  (Page  610)  * 


Ve{f€tabk 

Projiorlion  0/  acid 

Period  of 
sterilimtum 
at  f /r  F. 

Asptiraf^iB 

Groeri  beanH 

5  ounces  lemon  juice  to  I  gaUon  brine  t 

r;        n             it          it      ((    1         41          ii 

A           i*                it             14        ij     1           it             n 

7      '*          *'        **     "   1       "     Kirup. 

made  of  i4  pound  sugar  and  ]  J^ 

ounce  salt,  to  tlie  gallon,  usc^d  (0 

cover  (5orn 
Equal  quantity  of  tomatoes 
7  ouncc^a  lemon  juice  to  1  gallon  brine, 

made  of  2-1/3  ounces  salt  and  SJ^ 

ouncetj  sugar  to  the  gallon 
4  ounces  lemon  juice  and  2-2/3  ouneei* 

salt  to  the  gallon 

1  hour 
1 J4  hours 
1 1'^  hours 

Carrots 

1  j^  hours 

Sweet  corn 

Peas 

1 14  houm 
1  hour 
I  hour 

Pumpkin 

1  J'i  hours 

*  Dat^  from  Circ.  158,  by  W.  V.  Cruess,  Agr.  Exp.  Sta.,  Univ,  of  Calif, 
f  Two-per  cent  brine:  about  6  tablespoons  salt  to  1  gallon  water. 

StoriTig  canned  foods. 

Canned  food  sltoidd  be  set  aside  for  two  or  three  days  before 
being  storefl^  ami  then  as  a  means  of  special  precaution,  it 
should  bc^  teste<I  a.s  follows:  Loosen  the  clamp  and  j^rasp  the  jar 
by  the  cilgen  of  the  glass  top.  If  the  cati  leaks  or  if  decomposi- 
tion has  set  in^  the  top  will  eome  otL  If  the  top  stays  on,  tighten 
the  damp  a^ain  and  the  food  is  ready  for  storage.  If  the  top 
comes  off,  reject  that  can  of  foml. 

lied  fruits  and  vegetables  should  be  stored  in  a  dark  place, 
as  Hght  tJestroys  the  color ^  leaving  the  foml  unattractive  in  ap- 
pearance. If  the  jar  and  its  contents  have  l>een  made  abso- 
lutely sterile,  and  the  Jar  is  entirely  air-tight,  the  food  will  not 
spoil  if  held  in  a  wann  place.  If  spoihog  does  occur;  it  will  be 
due  to  one  of  the  following  causes:  (1)  some  flaw  in  the  can, 
wdiich  makes  it  a  so-called  'Vslow-le-aker'';  (2)  the  presence  of 
8ome  micro-organisms  that  have  survived  the  cooking  process,  in 
gpif  e  of  all  care;  (3)  a  drying-out  of  the  rubber,  and  hence  the 
breaking  of  the  seal 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


H       Iji  some  factorie«§  wliere  fowis  are  canned  in  f^Ia^s  jara^ 

are  made  for  holding  the  jars  iipsick^  down  in  an  inclineil  poeitimi, 
thus  keeping  the  liquid  constantly  in  the  top  of  the  can  and  ptt- 
venting  the  rapid  drying  of  the  rubber, 

Scor€<urds  for  jydginij  foods  cnnn^d  in  ^lasB. 

The  following  seonxr^mi  may  be  used  whcm  it  is  not  feaaiUe 
to  open  the  jars: 

Quality  of  fruit,  judged  by  appeiuunce  (SO)  ^^ 

Uniformily  of  ahape^  size,  rjpcni?(ss.  .  3rt 

Ri^tcntion  of  shape,  sute.    ,,,..,  3B 

CiAor,  .......,.._. 10 

Quality  of  liquid  (40) 

Clearness. J| 

Color. . .    ,  3J 

Appearance  of  Jar  (10) 
Cleaiinesc? 
Label:  size,  color,  position,  legend 5 

100 

The  following  score-card  may  be  used  when  it  is  feasible  to 
open  the  jars: 

Appearance  of  jar  (10) 

Cleanness 5 

Label:  size,  color,  iK>8ition,  legend 5 

Quality  of  fruit  (60) 

Uniformity  of  shape,  size,  ripeness 10 

Retention  of  shape  and  size,  due  to  selection  and  proper  cooking  10 

Color 5 

Flavor 20 

Texture:  suitability  of  variety  for  canning,  overripeness,  under- 

ripeness,  density  of  sirup 15 

Quality  of  liquid  (30) 

Flavor:  richness,  lack  of  fermentation 20 

Color 5 

Clearness 5 

100 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


6isr 


Frvii  jukes. 

Properly  extracted  fruit  juices  conlaiu  uuK-li  of  tlie  HUj^ar 
and  the  body-building  and  l>ody-reKiilating  (constituents  of  the 
whole  fruit,  as  well  as  much  of  its  Havor  and  its  peetin  (jelly- 
making  substanee).  Hence  fruit  juices  imve  a  real  food  value. 
They  also  furnish  an  easy  and  often  inexpensive  means  of 
variety  in  the  daily  meals,  in  both  wami  and  cold  weather. 
Fruit  drinks  (pa^e  471),  jellied  dessertjs,  pudding  sauces,  ice 
ereanis,  and  ices  are  easily  made  from  l)ottlc<i  fruit  juices,  which 
may  often  be  extractetl  from  parts  of  the  fruits  that  would  other- 
wise be  discarded.  Juices  from  pineapples,  rhubarb,  straw- 
ben'ics,  blackberries,  raspherriesj  blueberries,  currants,  cherries, 
peaches,  plums,  apples,  pears,  quinces,  grapC43  (red,  white,  and 
black),  are  especially  gooi!  for  these  purpos€\s. 

Juice  may  l:)e  extracted  from  discarded  parts  of  fruit;  from 
left-over  portions  of  fruit  prepared  for  the  table;  from  skins 
and  pits  of  peaches;  from  skins,  cores,  and  seeds  of  apples;  from 
pulp  discarded  after  niaking  jelly  and  marmalade;  from  well- 
scrubbed  skins  of  oranges  and  lemons  used  in  making  lemon- 
ade; from  cores,  skins,  and  eyes  of  well-scrul)bed  pineapples. 

The  following  procedure  may  then  be  carried  out : 

Cover  the  pulp  or  parings  with  cold  wafer,  bring  the  mixture 
slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  sinmier  it  until  the  juice  is  extracted 
(15  or  20  minutes),  and  strain  it.  Boil  the  strained  juice  for 
5  minutes,  and  pour  it  into  jars  or  glavss  bottles  that  have  been 
sterilized  by  boihng  for  20  mirmtes,  filling  the  jars  to  over- 
flowing. Seal  the  jai-s  immwliately.  Stopper  the  bottles  with 
corks  sterihzed  and  dried  for  shrinktige,  and  make  an  air-tight 
seal  by  dipping  the  cork  and  the  lip  of  the  bottle  into  hot  paraf- 
fin. If  desired,  add  1  cupful  of  sugar  for  each  6  cupfuls  of  fruit 
juice  before  boiling  the  juice.  In  this  case,  be  sore  to  note  on 
the  label  the  proportion  of  sugar  used. 

A  rich  clear  juice  may  be  olitained  by  allowing  well-washed 
juicy  fruits  to  stand  overnight  with  alternate  layers  of  sugar. 
If  enough  sugar  is  added  the  next  moriung  (a  little  more  than 
pound  for  pound)  the  straineii  juice  may  be  sealed,  without 
cooking,  in  sterilized  bottles,  stoppereil  with  sterilized  corks. 


620 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  nKiking  of  jelly  * 

Curraiils,  sour  apples,  crab-apples,  raspljerries,  blackberrit^ 
blueberries,  partly  ripened  grapes,  and  quinces 
jelly;  but  peaches,  peam,  strawberrieii,  and  cherries  am  de- 
ficient in  certain  substaDces  necessary  to  produce  a  jelly  of  good 
consistenry  aiitl  flavor.  ThiH  deficiency  may  be  oireroonv 
by  coiiibinioi^  these  juices  with  those  that  make  ficood  joHlr. 

A  fruit  juice  that  is  grxjti  for  making  jelly  is  one  that  contaia^ 
pectin,  the  essential  jelly-making  substance.  Juices  extimctod 
by  cooking  are  apparently  far  richer  in  this  suhstaoee  Ikn 
juices  extracted  from  the  raw  fruits.  To  dctemiine  whellMr 
a  juice  contains  pectin,  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  i>f  the  bcrt  ji 
should  Ije.  mixed  thoroughly  with  an  p<iual  volume  of 
alcohol  (90  to  95  per  cent),  and  the  mixture  should  be  eodid. 
If  pectin  is  present,  a  gelatinous  mass,  which  can  be  gathemi 
on  a  spoon,  will  appear  in  the  liquid. 

Acid  is  another  requisite  for  juices  that  make  gocxl  jelly. 

To  extract  juice  from  a  very  juicy  fruit,  such  as  cumuita  m 
raspberries,  place  the  clean  fruity  washed  if  neeeaaar>',  ia  am 
enameled  preserv^ing  kettle,  add  just  enough  wati*r  to  preveol 
burning— perha|>s  1  cup  to  4  or  5  quarts  of  fruits-rover  the 
kettle,  and  place  it  where  the  fruit  will  cook  nither  alow^, 
stirring  it  occasionally  with  a  wooden  or  a  silver  spoon«     Wfa^o 
the  simmering  point  is  reached,  crush  the  fruit  further  wi 
wcll'Soaked  wooden  masher,  and  continue  heating  it  until ^ 
whole  mass  is  cooke*t  through.    Allow  the  juice  to  drain  throu^  ^ 
a  jelly  bag  or  a  double  piece  of  clioesi*-cloth  into  tui  eattlum^i 
ware  or  enameled  receptacle  for  half  an  hour  or  more.     It  iij 
better  not  to  combine  the  first  extraction  with  the  later.     Ifi 
later  extractions  are  to  lie  marie,  it  is  well  to  re«en*e  a  peciti 
test  of  firet  extraction  as  a  standard  for  concentrating  ones  later^ 

When  the  first  extraction  is  fairly  w^ell  drained  out,  genemUjf  | 
within  half  an  hour,  transfer  the  pulp  to  the  pr^ervitig  kettl^j 
cover  it  with  water,  stir  it  well,  and  cover  the  kettle.  Bring ; 
the  Juice  slowly  to  the  l)oillng  point,  and  simmer  it  for  15  or  M  J 

•Condensed  from  Principles  of  Jelly  Making,  by  N,  E,  GoMthwAiK^ [ 
Univ,  uf  lU.,  Bull.  15. 


L 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


621 


iinutes.  Strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag  as  for  the  first  axtraction. 
If  the  alcohol  test  imlieates  much  pectin,  make  a  third  extrac- 
tion. Gcmerally  only  three  extractions  can  be  madep  but  some 
fruits  will  allow  five.  The  second  aed  later  extractions  may  be 
cornltined.  The  boiling  juice  may  be  sealed  in  sterilized  bottles 
and  made  into  jelly  in  the  winter. 

If  a  less  juicy  fniit,  such  as  apples  or  quinces,  is  used,  wash 
the  fruit,  discard  any  unsound  parts^  cut  it  into  small  pieces, 
incluiling  the  skins  and  the  seeds,  cover  it  with  water,  and  ex* 
tract  the  juice  according  to  the  directions  for  juicy  fruits,  mak- 
ing more  tlian  one  extraction  if  possible. 

For  currants  antl  partly  ripened  grapes,  the  correct  propor- 
tion of  sugar  for  the  fiist  extraction  is  likely  to  be  eciual  volumes 
of  sugar  and  juice.  For  rcil  rasplierriea,  blueberries,  and  black- 
berries, and  for  fruits  to  which  much  water  must  be  added, 
such  as  sour  apples,  cra!>applcs,  and  cranberries,  the  correct 
proportion  l>y  volume  for  the  first  extraction  is  likely  to  be 
three- fourths  as  much  sugar  as  juice.  The  quantity  of  sugar 
required  is  detemiinetl  by  the  quantity  of  pectin  present  in 
the  juice.  If  too  little  sugar  in  proportion  to  pectin  is  used,  the 
jelly  is  likely  to  be  tough;  if  too  much  sugar  is  useil,  the  jelly 
is  soft  and  does  not  hokl  its  shape.  The  remtxly  for  having 
used  too  much  sugar  is  to  add  more  juice  and  thus  supply  more 
pectin.  It  is  better  to  err  on  the  side  of  too  little  rather  than 
too  much  sugar.  The  second  and  third  extractions  may  be 
mixed.  The  mixture  should  be  boiled  down  until  the  juice 
approximates  in  pectin-content  the  riclmcss  of  the  first  ex- 
traction, as  shown  by  the  pectin  test.  The  juice  should  then 
be  measurwl,  and  the  sugar  should  l>e  added  in  the  proportion 
BUggested  for  the  first  extraction. 

The  proportion  of  sugar  to  juice,  the  proportion  of  pectin 
in  the  juice,  and  possii>ly  the  proportion  of  acid  in  the  juice, 
govern  the  length  of  time  for  boiling  the  juice  to  produce  good 
jelly.  Boiling  from  8  to  10  minutes  may  be  sufficient  for  currant 
juice,  while  from  20  to  30  minutes  may  l>e  required  for  juice 
from  raspberries,  blackberries,  a[>])lcs,  and  the  like.  The  juice 
in  any  case  should  be  boiled  rapidly. 


622 


A   MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  sugar  should  he  added  to  the  juice  when  the  junr*]  >f 
boiling  is  about  half  eompleteii.  If  the  sugar  is  hot,  the  mr^ki  * 
process  is  not  delayed.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  ^(f  r  r 
the  sugar,  however.  The  juice  should  be  stirred  fmrly  i\i> 
stantly,  after  the  sugar  is  added,  in  order  to  prevent  buminic. 

A  giKnl  jelly  test  m  to  allow  juice  to  drop  from  the  skleafa 
spoon  and  when  it  sheets  off,  or  breiiksoff^  to  stop  the  cooking. 

If  jellies  are  to  stand  any  length  of  time  before  tising^  ihef 
sliould  be  scaled  properly  from  the  air»  After  the 
been  filled  completely  with  the  hot  jelhes,  they  should 
in  a  cool  place  for  the  contents  to  harden.  Jellies  slightly 
cooked  may  lie  covered  with  panes  of  gla^s  and  allowied 
harden  in  the  sun.  In  either  case,  when  the  jelliejj  are  weU  flei« 
the  glasses  should  l>e  filled  wnth  hot  paraffin — the  jelly  will  haft 
shrunken,  leaving  space  for  this — not  merely  melt^l  p&nlEsi^ 
l>ut  hot  paraffin  so  that  all  gemis  that  may  have  fallen  on  tliB 
surface  of  the  jelly  may  be  killed  and  future  trouble  with  tliflB 
obviated.  The  glasses  should  be  closed  with  hot,  clean  tifl 
covers,  and  kept  in  a  dry,  cool  place* 


lould  bmM 

ghtlytioSS 

allowied  ImM 


Jams. 

The  methotf  of  making  jams  is  to  cook  the  fruit  until  tender, 

add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  equal  quantities  or  thnee-fouftke 
as  much  as  fruit,  an*!  cook  the  mixture  until  a  drop  will  jeBf 
on  a  cold  dish.  It  shoultl  then  l>e  poun-d  into  aterilijed 
and  seale<J. 

PRESERVATION   OF   MEAT* 

Directions  for  canning  meat  are  given  on  page  613. 

Keeping  fresh  meai 

All  meat  to  be  preserved,  either  fresh  or  cured,  should  be 
thoroughly  cooUh]  after  the  animal  is  slaughtered,  for  tml^ 
this  is  done  the  meat  will  not  cure  well  mir  will  it  be  poasi 
keep  it  in  a  fresh  state  for  any  length  of  time. 


I 


•  Seulke,  K.  J.    The  Curing  of  Meat  and  MvM  Pmducts  on  tlie  I 
Oimell  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm,  Bull  1 19» 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


623 


In  cold  weather  meat  may  he  kept  by  hanging  it  in  a  dark, 
cool  place,  where  dogs,  cats,  and  rwlents  cannot  reach  it.  If  a 
temperature  below  40°  F,  is  mairitiLiiKHl,  meat  may  be  kept  for 
weeks;  but  with  the  temperature  alternating  between  low  and 
high,  it  will  not  keep  well.  Meat  that  is  frozen  will  keep  in-* 
definitely  so  long  as  it  remains  frozen.  Alternate  freezing  and 
thawing  will  spoil  the  flavor  anil  cause  early  decomposition. 
It  is  impoHant  that  tlie  meat  Ijc  kept  in  a  place  where  the  air  is 
dry.  A  darkt  cool  cellar,  or  an  attic  that  is  dry  and  free  from 
odors,  is  the  profx^r  place  for  keeping  meat  on  the  faiTU. 

Meat  packed  in  snow  may  l>e  kept  for  a  eonsiderai)le  length 
of  time.  The  meat  should  fii-st  l>e  frozen  hard.  After  it  is 
frozen^  an  earthen  jar  or  a  barrel  should  be  provided,  and  a 
thick  layer  of  snow  should  be  tamped  tightly  in  the  bottom  of 
this.  On  the  snow  a  layer  of  meat  is  packed,  and  coveretl  with 
another  layer  of  snow.  Care  must  be  taken  to  have  a  thick 
layer  of  snow  between  the  meat  and  the  inner  surface  of  the 
receptacle.  Another  layer  of  meat  is  then  put  on,  and  another 
layer  of  snow,  and  so  on  until  all  the  meat  is  packed  or  the  jar  is 
almost  full,  when  a  heavy  covering  of  snow  should  l)e  put  on 
top  and  covered  with  a  filock  or  some  other  ol>ject  in  order  to 
keep  out  rats  anti  mice.  The  meat  may  be  taken  out  as  needed, 
and  the  snow  should  be  repacketl  on  top  each  time. 

Another  method  conunonly  used  with  pork  and  sausage  la 
partly  to  cook  the  meat  by  frj'ing  it  on  l>oth  sides,  pack  it  in  a 
jar,  and  i>our  hot  Ian!  over  it  in  ortler  to  seal  the  whole  and  keep 
out  air.  The  meat  may  be  taken  out  as  needed.  Care  should 
be  taken  each  time  to  melt  the  lard  that  is  taken  ofT,  and  to  pour 
it  back. 


Curing  meuLs 

As  has  already  been  stated,  meiit  should  be  thoroughly  cooled 
before  it  is  cured.  It  is  equally  important ,  however,  that  the 
meat  shall  not  be  in  a  frozen  condition,  for  if  it  is  frozen  the 
tirine  or  pickling  solution  cannot  penetrate  freely  and  the  meat 
wilt  not  he  of  even  flavor  throughout. 

The  vessels  use<J  for  curing  meats  are  of  various  sorts  and 


624 


A   MANUAL  OF  ffOME-MAKiNG 


sizes,  r1e|>emling  on  tho  mnoiint  of  meat  to  \ye  i?uiied 
expense  to  whidi  the  owner  cnvGS  to  go.     L#arig)e 
or  crocks  give  tlie  Ijest  resulU^  but  these  am  .somewhat  i 
sive — 8  to  10  cents  a  gallon  of  ra[)ai'ity^ — ancl  they 
easily  l>roken  if  not  carefully  handled.    Tight  hanlwood  I 
may  fie  iiseiL     New  barrels  or  Ijarrels   tliat    have 
iiiolasse8  should  l)e  use<:l,  never  vinegar  or  kercusetie  hanrlii 
less  they  have  been  burned  out  on  the  inside.     If 
barrels  are  usetl  they  shoukl  Ix^  thorouglily  j^raJdod* 

The  principal  preser\'a lives  used  are  salt,  sugar,  and } 
and  their  eombinations.  Chemicals  forbichlen  by  law  aim!  tllfliK 
known  to  have  a  bad  effect  on  health  should  not  Im?  tiaed*  SA 
preserves  meat  through  its  astringent  and  slightly  genxiiddii 
action.  It  hardens  the  muscle  fiJiers  and  draws  the  oifwtilff 
from  the  meat.  Sugar  and  molasses  have  aii  afanost  oppoati 
effect*  They  cause  the  retention  of  the  moist urf!  of  the  rocai. 
and  keep  the  muscle  fibers  soft  and  tender.  Therefore,  SEalt  aoi 
sugar  are  commonly  used  together,  as  the  sugar  gives  a  daa^ 
able  flavor  and  prevents  the  hardening  action  of  the  salt*  fkh- 
peter  is  often  used  to  retain  the  liatural  reddish  color  of  tl^ 
meat.  It  is  detrimental  to  health  and  sliould  be  used  spmm^ 
if  at  alb 

Curing  pork, 

BUilAR-ClTUEO   TIAMS^   BACOIVS,   ANP  IXlXOraS 

Metbtwl  I,  After  the  meat  has  been  thoroughly  roolrd,  tlie  i 
be  cut  up  and  ruroti.    SuKiir-cur<xl  |x»rk  is  preferable  to  dr>*-cun*d  or  1 
salt  pi>rk  liecrtuse  of  its  pleasant  flavor  an<l  l>ecauw  the  meat  i.^  not  m  drj" 
and  har^k    Bttf  lt>ugu«»s  may  t>e  cured  in  thp  same  pirkU*  with  thi?  porL 
All  the  pork  earcass  may  be  cured  cxeept  the  loin.^,  which  arr  usisil  iwak 
for  chops  and  roasts,  the  gpare-ribs,  which  are  uhi^I  frtv^h,  nM  tfwt  fron- 
inings,  which  are  u^tfl  for  lanl  and  f«ausagt?.    The  ham*<, 
bacons  are  sugar-cured,  and  the  fat  barics  arc  dr>'-eiuwl  « 
plain  salt  pickle. 

Before  the  meat  Is  placed  in  pickle  or  s^t^  all  comera  and  rniegied  edgiii 
should  be  eut  off  and  used  for  saiL^afice  and  lank  If  they  nrt*  lefl  on  thej 
will  be  waHte<I,  for  they  will  he  thoroughly  soaked  by  the  picklo  and  wiB 
be  of  no  use* 

Rub  the  pork  thorouKhly  with  salt  and  pack  it  id  a  eool  Tplbkomwvw9i0i/L 
The  next  day  pack  it  in  a  barrel  or  on  earthen  jar,  with  the  lioavi«^  }agm 


FOOD  PHESERVATION 


and  ahoulclQi^  at  tlie  bf>tiom»  the  lighter  hams  and  shoulders  next,  and  the 
bacons  and  ttmgucs  at  llie  U)p. 

For  cver>^  1(X)  ]X)unds  *if  nu>al  wt-igh  out  10  pounds  of  Kah^  2j^  ptmnds 
of  hnnvn  sugar,  ami  2  ounce's  of  saltpelf^r.  Fiuh  tho^si*  together  IhoriHiKhly, 
taking  rare  that  the  saltpeter  i^  finely  jwwdertHl,  Dissolve  the  whole  by 
stirring  it  into  4  gallons  of  hx)iling  water.  Allow  this  brine  to  cool  thor- 
oughly, and  then  pour  it  over  the  me^it.  If  it  does  not  entirely  eover  the 
iTieat,  iwld  more  water.  The  brine  should  cover  the  meiit  at  all  times. 
The  meat  niuy  be  \\eightcHl  down  with  a  blork  if  necessary,  for  if  it  is 
not  c(>V(^rixi  the  projecting  meat  will  decompost^  in  a  short  time. 

If  the  brine  show:^  si^a  of  fermenting  during  the  curing  procesB,  it 
should  be  dra^Mioff,  boUt^l,  and  coole<l,  and  then  poureti  back  on  the 
meat. 

The  bacons  and  tongues  may  he  taken  from  the  pickle  after  four  to  six 
ww»ks^  and  after  being  wa.shed  in  warrn  water  they  may  be  hung  in  the 
fimoke-house  and  srnttked.  The  hgliter  hams  and  shouldcj-s  w4ll  be  ready 
to  take  out  of  the  pickle  in  six  to  eiglit  weeks,  and  the  heavier  one«  at  the 
end  of  the  eighth  wt^^k, 

Method  II,  Another  recipe  for  frugar-cured  hams,  bacons,  and  tongues' 
that  has  given  gof»d  results  ia  as  follows:  ^ 

Pack  the  thoroughly  cooletl  meat  in  a  cfK>l,  dry  place,  on  a  table  that 
has  previou^sly  been  covered  with  a  layer  of  salt.  Sprinkle  salt  over  each 
piece  I  if  meat,  and  add  alternate  layers  of  meat  and  layers  of  salt  until  all 
bi  puckHl. 

Allow  the  meat  to  remain  in  the  salt  for  eight  to  ten  da>'8,  and  then 
wa;<h  off  the  salt  with  lukewarm  water.  The  meat  is  now^  ready  to  go 
into  the  pickle,  which  U  jiuxcmI  as  folluws:  To  18  gallons  of  water  add  5 
pounds  of  browTi  sugar,  a  small  handful  of  saltpeter,  and  1  tablesixn^nful 
of  ginger.  Stir  the  inixture  until  the  solitls  are  all  dissolved,  and  then  stir 
in  12  potmds  of  sidt.  Stir  until  all  the  ssilt  is  dissolve*!.  This  amount 
can  be  increas^rnl  or  decreased  according  to  the  amount  of  meat  to  be 
pickkxh  Ordinarily  ono-fourth  of  this  mixturij  w^ill  be  enough  for  ICM) 
pounds  of  pt)rk. 

The  pickle  should  test  75**  with  the  hydrometer  test.  If  a  hydrometer 
is  not  at  hand,  di-op  a  fresh  egg  into  the  pickle;  if  the  egg  floats  almost 
submerged,  the  brine  is  of  the  piroper  strength. 

Pack  the  meat  in  a  barrtd  or  a  jar,  with  hams  and  shoulders  weighing 
over  10  pf Minds  on  the  bottom,  those  weighing  less  than  10  jwunds  next, 
and  tlie  bacon  strti)s  and  tongues  on  U^i.  Pour  th(^  V>rinc^  over  the  meat 
so  that  it  is  all  covered,  and  weight  it  with  a  block  so  that  none  of  the 
meat  projects  from  the  brine. 

The  bacons  and  tongues  may  be  remoTe<i  from  the  brine  at  the  end  of 
three  weeks,  the  hghter  hams  and  ?<huulders  at  the  end  of  five  weeks,  and 
the  heavi(^t  ones  after  six  to  seven  weeks.  After  the  meat  is  n/moved 
from  the  brine,  it  should  be  washed  in  warm  water  in  order  to  remove  the 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 


626 


r.niHt  iif  brino  and  any  ftr«um  that  mnv  have?  fnrmiMl,  iwd  lifter  i 
an  hour  or  tnoro  it  may  bt>  \mn%  in  ttio  »Tnokc)-4iou9e  ami ; 

BHI.\B  HALT  POKlt 

Pw!k  thimiLiKhly  wK»ln«l  jwirk  in  ;i  ImrH  or  ii  j:tr  MUt-r 
Goeh  pioce  wth  salt.    The  fol lowing  iluy  weiRh  out  for  r     ,  i    '  ' 
of  mciat   10  ptiunds  of  salt  unci  2  «junnf?<  of  «alt peter.      M*\ 
ilissolve  tho  mixture  in  4  ^'illons  of  boiling  w^lor      Allow  i 
WK>1  thoroughly,  anil  thou  jwur  it  over  tlie  meat  in  tho  barrm 
block  on  top  in  onler  to  kotrp  the  mejvt  ftubmeiiped. 

Fat  biicksi  ar^  oniinarily  ii»*il  for  mXt  pork  curwl  in  brrae,  fatti 
of  the  carcass  may  be  cure*  i  in  thia  way.    The  mt5at  cured 
tn  strips  or  in  6-inch  wquans*. 

The  meat  should  be  left  in  the  brine  and  be  takeo  out  mm 


DRT-CTJREO   PORK 

To  drT,'-rure  meal  involves*  morp  urirk  than  to  hrinn-f-tirp  li, 
it  is  a  httle  less  expensive  in  ^mio  civm:«.  It  im  Ii-w*  <lifBrult 
9alt  the  mt^t,  pack  in  a  jar,  and  pour  the  brine  over  it,  thiui  Ui  r^  tb» 
ineat  several  time^  with  the  dry  mixture,  Ah^o*  the  bHnt^^uml  &al 
is  not  so  dry  and  is  a  Uttb  more  palatable.  Brin^n^unnl  uw^i  laa  U 
kept  anywhere  as  long  as  it  is  kept  cool;  dr>'*<;urcd  nTcat»  oo  ilae  ^nJbM 
hanfl,  should  be  kept  in  a  cckiI,  moist  place,  in  onJer  to  tri»urp  erm 
With  hrine-curtHi  meat  there  is  no  danger  from  rat»  an^l  othnr 
but  flics  must  be  kept  away  from  meat  cure<l  in  either  way. 

In  drTp'-curing  pf»rk»  weigh  out  for  every  KM)  jM»tinds  of  pork  A 
.  of  saltf  2}^  txmndB  of  gmnulatetl  sugar,  and  2  ounctitf  €if  «Altpel«r#  WoA 
mix  thoroughly.  Divide  the  mixture  into  three  portions.  Riib  one  portaot 
on  the  meat  the  first  itay,  and  pack  the  meat  in  a  bamiL  Lfmirv  tt  fnr 
three  da>TJ.  At  the  end  of  three  days  take  the  meat  out  of  the  bami 
rub  it  with  a  second  portion  of  the  mixture,  anti  repack  it.  Three  ^k^ 
later  rub  the  meat  with  the  tliint  and  la^^t  t)ortion  of  the  nuxtnie;  aiiA 
repack  it.  Let  it  stay  in  thf*  hiirrel  for  ten  to  fourteen  d^iya.  Than  ] 
it,  wash  it  in  warm  water,  and  smoke  it. 


ittSP 


picKixn  pigs'  fkbt 

Take  well-scraped  pigijs'  fc*et,  with  the  toes  rcmoireil, 
in  cold  water  ovemiglit.  The  next  morning  put  llMm  in 
mid  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  let  tb€m  cook  until  aoli.  l%m 
will  require  about  five  hour^.  Salt  i^hould  be  added  to  the  ^rmlor  <ftar» 
ing  the  cooking.  When  the  pigcs'  feet  are  wft,  remove  tbcoi  tram  tilt 
water,  split  them,  pack  them  in  an  earthen  jar,  and  potir  but  Ttn^pr 
over  them.  Spices  of  various  kinds  xntiy  be  added  to  tlie  viMsir  9 
deaired. 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


Head-cheese  is  made  from  tJw  part,  of  the  head  of  the  hog  that  would 
othenviKc  be  wasted.  Whr'ii  proporly  jjn\pnn»d  it  i«  a  delicacy*  The 
feet,  Its  well  as  the  head,  may  be  ii,swl  for  this  [lurfKjse. 

Bkin  the  hog's  heart,  remove  the  eyc^  and  the  brain,  and  apht  the  head 
Ihrrjugh  tlic  midline,  or  flown  the  center  of  th(*  forehead  and  the  nose. 
Usually  the  jowk  arc  removed  ami  salted.  Put  the  head  pieces  int/O  a 
cooker^  a^ld  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat,  and  Ixiil  the  whole  until 
the  mejit  parts  ctnne  rt>adily  frcim  ttic  hone.  lieuKive  the  meat,  separate 
it  from  the  bone.H,  and  chop  it  finely.  Remove  the  liquid  from  the  keltic 
and  save  it  for  further  x\m\  After  the  meat  is  choppe<l,  return  it  to  the 
kettle,  pour  on  enoui^h  of  the  htjuid  to  rover  the  meat,  and  allow  it  t-o 
cook  for  ten  or  fifteen  nunutes.  While  this  final  crniking  is  taking  plaoe, 
sca^^n  the  mixture  witii  siitlt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste* 

Put  the  cooked  meat  ami  the  liquid  that  remainn  int^  jan»,  PADB,  or 
a  eold-meat  press,  place  a  meight  on  top,  and  allow  the  meat  to  coo!. 
It  wdl  then  be  solid  and  can  be  sBcofl  and  eaten  immefdiately. 


Lard  Is  made  from  the  fat  of  the  ho^  carcass.  Tliree  g;rftdes  of  lard 
are  obtainetl  from  three  parts  of  the  body:  the  be«t  grade,  leaf  lard,  is 
made  from  the  leaf,  or  layer  of  fat  lying  inside  the  abdonunal  wail;  the 
seoond  grade  is  made  from  tlie  buckH,  the  sides,  and  the  pieces  trimmed 
from  the  various  cuts;  the  third  and  pvxjre;<t  grade  is  made  from  the  in- 
testinal, stomach,  anrl  pluck  fats.  The  last  is  much  strf^nger  than  the 
other  two  and  t^hould  not  be  mixetl  with  them.  On  the  farm  the  first 
two  gratles  are  usually  made  tfygether^  anti  sometime**  all  three  are  niMle 
t47gether. 

Cut  the  fat  into  bit.^  about  I  inch  square,  and  trim  out  all  particles 
of  meat  as  they  give  an  unpleasant  bumcil  flavor  to  the  lard  and  are 
the  first  to  scorch  if  the  kettle  beoomes  U^o  hot.  Put  the  pieces  of  fat 
inio  a  kettle,  antl  atld  a  little  water,  not  more  than  a  quart,  to  keep  the 
fat  from  burning  until  some  of  the  lard  lias  melted. 

Keep  the  kettle  hot  until  the  cracklings  are  brown  and  rise  to  the  top. 
Skim  off  the  emcklings,  an<l  prexs  out  the  lard  that  remains  in  them. 
Draw  otT  the  melted  lanl,  and  add  a  httle  baking-8oda  to  help  whiten 
it.  The  lard  should  be  stirred  w^hile  it  is  cooling,  in  onlcr  to  make  it  aa 
white  as  possible. 

Curing  hcef. 

Beef  is  not  so  commonly  riirod  as  pork;  hut  when  eomed  it 
takes  the  p!are  of  fresh  beef  tluring  periods  of  the  year  when 
fresh  lieef  does  not  keep  well,  anfl  also  offers  a  method  of  pre* 
serving  part  of  the  meat  until  it  is  needed  and  thus  saving  a 


628  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 

waste  or  loss  of  meat,  since  it  is  impossible  for  one  fmaa^  to 
use  an  entire  beef  carcass  in  the  fnssh  state.  Dried  beef  < 
mands  a  high  price  on  the  market.  It  also  offers  a  meCliol  of 
pi^e^ervinp;  ineal  for  future  use.  Jerkeil  beef  is  niade  in  tlu!  dwr 
regions  of  i  he  Wctst.  The  climate  of  the  eastern  states  mi  I 
dry  enough  nor  warm  enough  to  cure  it  successfully,  aad 
not  so  palatable  us  dried  beef. 

CORNED    BEEF 

Method  I.  Since  corned  beef  is  u;*e<!  for  practicmlly  the 
on  fresh  bcH^f,  oiib'  wholcsimK'  untainleil  meat  should  he  UMd  fior  llii 
purpose.  Nutu rally,  the  choicer  the  meat  that  b  put  tnto  thm  pmkki 
the  bolter  will  Up  the  meat  thut  Ofjrnij^  <iiit.  The  cbc^aper  attm  ot  fcrtl 
are  (irilinarily  um^'A  for  ci^rning,  heruuse  the  choicer  cuts  on;  more  pclalaUi 
in  a  fresh  eonditinfi.  PLafe,  flank,  .shoulder,  chuck,  oraos  ribe^  mud  Paa$ 
are  mrxst  commonly  iisr*«l  for  coming, 

Fro9i(^n  meat  shotild  nrit  be  put  into  the  brine;  acitber  should  Ult  briv 
be  frozen  while  the  meat  is  in  it. 

Weigh  the  meat.  Cut  it  in  pieci^i*  ab<»ut  6  inches  aqoans*  PbfV  s 
layer  of  AJilt  on  the  bottom  of  the  vessel  in  which  the  meat  in  ta  be  pflyiit 
eover  this  with  a  layer  of  meat,  and  spruikle  a  layer  of  saJt  over  llir  Bust, 
Add  alternate  layers  of  meat  and  of  salt  until  the  meat  b  puckoL  Serm 
to  f)  pounds  of  8iilt  will  u.sually  be  enough  for  UK)  pounds  of  iii«sal.  Alkif 
the  meat  to  Htand  in  the  salt  ovemii^ht.  On  (he  fullowiDii;  morniiig  nidbi 
a  brine,  using  5  ijounds  of  i^ugar,  2 J^  ounces  of  l)akinje;-ttfM:iH,  and  3  ounem 
of  *ial(  peter  for  every  100  pounds  of  me^t.  Dissolve  flicsN?  injcrcdksUj  in 
4  i^allons  of  bolting  water.  Allow  the  brine  to  cool  thomiif^hly  hr^oi^ 
pouring  it  over  the  meat.  If  more  or  lea«  than  100  p(^iun<i»  ii|  ttiiMi  m 
to  be  cured,  use  thc^s»e  proportion!*  for  the  brine.  If  4  ^dion«  o^  briaetlaii 
not  entirely  cover  KM)  |)ounds  of  meat,  water  imiy  L»e  tuldcd.  The  i 
ahoujd  be  weighted  down  with  a  block  or  a  vXeim  atone^  mnoai  any 
that  is  not  covere*!  with  the  brine  will  deeomp«j«e  v»^ry  quickly. 

If  the  brine  shows  signs  of  fermentation  m  warm  weather^  it  nboiild  I 
drawTi  off,  boiled,  8traine<i  through  a  cleim  cloth,  and,  after  it  \a  I 
cooleti,  pounxl  hack  on  the  meat. 

The  meat  whoiUd  be  kept  in  a  eooU  dark  plaee,  Al  the  tynd  of  t^ifty 
days  the  meat  will  be  ready  for  use.  If  the  pieces  are  larger  than  fi  tneiif^ 
square,  a  louger  time  may  Ik*  nllowcd,  aectiniing  to  the  si«e  of  the  pieeB* 

MvthfKl  IL  Thi*  fomuda  givi'n  under  Method  11  ^pajce  625)  (or  wog^ 
curcrl  hams  and  baecms  may  be  used  for  eomecl  b<?ef  abo. 

Pres»e<l  c«>med  |>cef«  After  the  eomi?il  tw^ef,  prepan^il  aa  ilcBiiribQl 
ttbcive,  ha**  Iktu  in  the  piekle  for  the  re<iyire<l  length  of  tinin,  it  nms  ^ 
tiiken  out,  and,  after  the  brine  ta  washed  off,  may  be  itsctl  ia  i|m* 


FOOD  PRESERVATION  65 

way  im  fresh  bt'ef.  If  tiesireil,  it  nmy  bt*  nm<lo  inio  pre^siR*  1  roniLxl  beef, 
Thia  is  prpparecl  ;is  folk^vvs:  Remove  fhe  beef  from  the  pickling  .4<>luri<pn, 
wawh  it  with  wami  water,  ntid  [Uari*  it  in  a  keltlt.  Kee|>  it  barely  coveretl 
with  wtitiT  at  all  t iiniiw,  ami  Initl  it  fur  two  hours.  Halt  ancl  pe[>[>er  may  bo 
atidiHi  while  the  meat  la  ccKtkiriji,  Imi  us^aiily  therr  is  en«iugh  salt  in  the 
nieai  from  the  brine.  Take  the  meat  fnjni  the  kettU*  ami  t>af'k  it,  in  pans 
or  in  a  rold-meat  pn^^.  Strain  the  broth  thrt^Dgh  chet^oclot  h  or  mtislin 
several  time**,  rf*plaee  it  on  the  strive,  br^il  it  tlown  to  one*half  iLn  original 
volume,  jKJur  it  over  the  meat  in  the  puns,  and  allow  the  whole  to  hanlen 
in  a  c^mil  place.  After  the  meal  hits  hanlened  it  may  be  sliced  and  eaten 
without  further  preparation. 

DRIED   BEEP 

Dried  beef  is  usually  made  fron\  the  mund,  although  any  heavily  muscled 
part  may  be  u^^l  for  fliin  purpose.  The  inside  of  the  round  makes  the 
tenderest.  meat.  In  cutting  meat  for  dried  beef,  tlie  muscles  should  be 
separated  into  their  natural  divisions.  When  curtnl  and  smoke<l  in  this 
way  thc*y  can  be  sliccid  acrofii^  the  grain,  and  the  meat  is  much  tendert^r 
than  would  otkenvise  be  the  case. 

A  jar  or  a  barrel  is  the  best  receptaele  m  which  to  pack  the  meat  when 
curing  it.  To  each  \00  fKJunds  of  well-co<iled  beef  weigh  out  r»  jxmnds  of 
fine  salt,  3  pounds  of  graiiulatetl  or  bnnrn  sugar,  and  2  (niiieei^  of  saltpeter. 
Mix  these  thoroughly,  without  wettings  and  divide  thc^  mixture  into  thrt^c 
pf^rtions.  Set  two  jiortions  away  for  future  use,  anc!  rub  the  other  j>ortion 
iiitfj  the  meat.  Pack  the  meat  in  the  jar  and  leave  it  for  three  clay.^.  At 
the  end  of  the  three  days  take  the  meat  from  the  jar,  but  leave  in  the 
jar  the  sirup  that  ha.s  fonnetl  Hub  the  meat  with  another  portion  of  the 
mixture,  ret^aek  it,  and  leave  it  for  three  days.  Remove  it  fmm  the  f^irup, 
rub  it  vs'ith  the  last  portion  of  the  mixture,  and  n^jiack  it  in  the  sirup  in 
thi*  jar.  After  three  <lays  remove  the  meat  and  hang  it  in  the  smoke-house, 
wliere  it  should  be  smoktHl  until  it  is  dr>\  It  should  then  be  kept  in  a 
dry  place  until  it  is  useiL  The  lunger  it  ia  amokeil  and  the  drier  it  b  kept^ 
the  longer  it  witl  ri'mitiii  gtiod. 

PICKLED    BEEF  TONOXJES 

The  reeipe  given  on  page  625  for  «5Ugar-cur»'d  hams  and  baconi^  may  be 
usetl  also  for  i>ickling  beef  Umgues. 


Cwing  million  and  lamb. 

Mutton  and  lamb  are  seldom,  if  evec  cured  on  the  farm.  In 
the  larger  packing  houses,  inuttoii  is  sometimes  partly  cured  in 
a  plain  salt  pickle,  and  then  cooked  and  packed  in  cans,  which 
are  soldered  shut  while  the  meat  is  still  hot. 


630  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKINO 

SouBoges. 

Very  gocKl  sausages  can  be  made  fnnn  the  scraps  tlimt 
otherwise  )ye  wasted  in  the  butcher  shop  and  on  the  faniL 
pieces  as  cheeks,  trimmings,  jowls,  pork  hearts  and 
mutton  hearts  and  tongues,  and  many  other  scraps  thai  m 
seldom  used  frcsli,  will  make  a  very  pahitable  sausage  and  vil 
sei'\  e  for  tliis  purpose  as  well  as  any  other  meat. 

aAMfiCRQ   STEAK 

This  b  the  simplest  fonn  of  »au.sage  made,  and  oooaiaia  etrnply  nf  foA 
bwf  run  twice  through  a  grinder.  It  may  be  seaaaned  after  the  first  psi^ 
ing,  or  left  uni}eBJ9oned.  It  Is  never  stufTpcl  into  gn*ing;w  Any  part  ct  tW 
beef  carcaxi^  may  be  used  for  ham  burg  steak,  but  the  boat  qttaMly  h  ma^ 

frt»m  t  lie  round. 

MTXED  8AU8AGB 

This  18  made  by  mixing  bec-r  and  pork  in  such  proporikms  m  tn  ai^ 
the  tiiste  of  the  eoiuiumer.  This  kind  nf  sausage  is  usuaJly  mmle  if  dv 
comiumer  dislikes  the  extremely  fat  undtlutcni  jxirk  eauaa^.  It 
etuffed  into  casings,  but  is  usually  kft  lou«e  ami  made  into  psiU 
fried.  The  fcillowitig  proportions  of  beef  and  pork  give  eaccellesit 
2  parts  lean  pork;  3  parts  lean  beef;  1  part  fat  pork. 


m 


PORK   BACSAGG 

Fork  sausage  should  be  made  from  clean,  frr^h  pork  acfapi^  cr  iW 
cheaper  parts  of  the  meat.  The  meat  should  be  in  the  iirLipaiticni  of 
three  part«  of  lean  fjork  to  one  of  fat  pork.  This  shoiiJtl  be  run  tj&roi^ 
the  grinder^  Bpread  out  and  seasoned  with  Kalt«  fiepper,  and  iMigii^  aad 
regrtiund .  Usually  1 3^  ouriees  of  fine  salt,  J4  ounce  of  ground  black 
and  a  ounce  or  less  of  ground  sage^  for  ^  pounds  of  meat,  juaJbos 
factory  seasoning. 

Pork  5iauAage  either  id  used  lootp^},  being  maile  into  pats  and  fried,  ot 
is  HiutTed  into  pork  casings  and  double-linked.  If  left  loueie  it  can  bf 
packe<J  in  jars  until  uBed.  If  it  is  to  be  kept  for  a  long  pmcid,  it  mmf 
be  nin  into  cloth  bags  and  smoked  for  a  short  time.  The  lixtkcd  saMii^ 
may  also  be  nmoked  for  a  short  time  in  onlcr  to  preserve  it.  If  it  it  to  bt 
kept  until  summer,  it  may  be  partially  cookeil,  packed  in  a  jar,  and 
ered  with  hot  lard. 


Smoking  meats  on  the  farm 
The  smoking  of  cured  meats  aids  in  their  preservation      .„_ 
the  smoking  process  closes  the  pores  of  the  meat  or  cwng?,  and 
the  creosote  is  objectional)le  to  some  insects* 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


Smoking  gives  a  desirable  flavor  to  the  meat  if  the  proper 
kind  of  fuel  is  used.  Green  hickory  is  best,  but  other  hard- 
woods or  corn-cobs  may  be  used  if  hickory  b  not  available. 
Resinous  woods  should  never  be  ujsed^  as  they  give  an  objection- 
able flavor  to  the  meat.  Corn-cobs  are  commonly  used,  but 
are  not  so  satisfactory  as  hickory  because  of  the  fine  ash  that 
is  forced  upward  by  the  heat  and  settles  on  the  meat,  giving  it  a 
dirty  appearance.  Juniper  berries  and  fragrant  woods  are  some- 
times added  to  the  fire,  to  give  desired  flavors. 

Proprietary  smoking  preparations  are  not  to  be  recommended, 
as  a  whole,  because  the^y  hasten  the  curing  process  and  do  not 
give  as  desirable  a  flavor  as  does  the  ordinary  smokiiig  process. 
Some  of  these  preparations  also  contain  substances  that  cause 
digestive  disorders  when  the  meat  is  eaten.  This  is  especially 
true  of  the  various  dips  used  to  take  the  place  of  smoking. 

The  smoke-kause. 

The  smoke-house  may  be  of  any  size  or  construction,  to  suit 
the  needs  of  the  owner.  If  the  house  is  to  be  used  only  once  and 
only  a  small  amount  of  meat  is  to  l>e  smoked,  a  large  l>arrel 
or  a  diy  goods  box  may  be  used.  If  the  house  is  to  be  penna- 
nent,  it  is  often  worth  while  to  build  it  of  brick,  concrete,  or 
stone,  in  onler  to  avoifl  a!l  risk  of  loss  by  fire.  A  frame  house 
may  be  used,  provided  that  care  is  taken  to  confine  the  fire  to 
the  center  of  the  floor,  or  to  build  it  in  a  large  iron  kettle,  so 
that  it  will  not  spread  to  the  house.  The  safest  method  of 
smokmg  meat,  and  at  the  same  time  of  preventing  the  smoke- 
house from  getting  too  hot,  is  to  chg  a  small  furnace  pit  in  the 
ground  about  10  or  12  fe€*t  from  the  smoke-house,  and  have  the 
smoke  carried  from  this  to  the  house  through  a  galvanizetl  pipe 
laid  on  top  of  the  ground  and  covered  so  that  it  will  not  be 
crushed. 

The  method  of  construction  of  the  smoke-house  should  allow 
ample  ventilation,  and  there  should  l>e  some  means  of  regulating 
the  draft.  This  can  be  done  by  having  the  outlet  for  the  smoke 
under  the  eaves  and  the  intake  for  the  air  at  the  furnace,  if  this 
is  used;  or,  if  the  furnace  or  outdoor  fire  method  is  not  used, 


632  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

an  adjustal)le  air  intake  may  be  attached  to  the  rloor  and  i 
ered  witb  a  heavy  screen  to  keep  out  flies  and  rut». 

For  ordinary  farm  u^e^  the  house  should   be  about  8 
square  and  S  to  10  feet  high,  so  that  the  meat  will  hung  titoT' 
feet  above  the  fire  and  near  enough  to  the  roof  to  get  the  licnrtit 
of  the  thick  smoke  and  yet  be  below  the  level  of  the  veniikiof 

The  smoking  process. 

Meat  that  has  been  piekled  .shonld  be  rcmov^ed  from  tk 
brine  at  kmst  a  day  before  it  is  to  be  smoked,  ai id  after  bdof 
washed  in  warm  water  it  should  be  hung  up  to  dry  until  it  m 
ready  to  smoke.  The  meat  should  be  hun;^  in  the  smoke-hoiiK* 
with  no  two  pieces  touching  each  other,  and  then  a  fine  shooli 
be  started^  heating  the  house  gi-adual!y.  The  meat  should  he 
kept  warm,  but  not  hot  enough  to  dry  the  outside  too  muefa  lad 
prevent  the  smoke  from  penetrating-  There  should  be  as  miick 
smoke  *ds  possible,  l>ut  no  more  licat  thiui  in  necessary. 

In  winter  the  fire  sliould  be  kept  burning  const^uitly  until  the 
smoking  is  con)i>Ieted,  for  if  the  meat  is  allowed  to  cool  ton 
much  the  snioke  will  not  penetrate?  it.  Meat  lliat  has  hea 
froz^en  should  not  be  put  into  the  smoke-house  until  it  is  tbawvL 

In  warm  weather  there  is  danger  of  getting  the  me^it  too  holi 
and  for  this  reason  it  is  good  practice  to  let  the  fire  die  dotrn 
every  other  day  until  the  meat  has  I  >eeome  properly  ^uokcd. 

After  the  meat  has  liecorae  properly  coloi-ed,  it  tsbould  be 
cooled  (hut  not  allowed  to  freeze)  by  opening  the  ventilator  m 
the  door,  k»aving  it  open  until  the  meat  hardens.  It  ina^  1 
be  packed  away  for  future  use.  If  warm  hams  are  piled 
upon  another  before  they  are  cooled,  sweating  occurs  wbem  the 
two  touch,  and  decomposition  soon  set^  in. 

The  mi^at  may  be  kept  in  the  smoke-house  for  a  time  if  the 
weather  is  not  too  warm,  but  the  house  should  be  kept  free  trom 
flies. 

If  the  smoked  meat  is  to  be  used  immediat^y,  no  further 
care  is  needeil;  but  if  it  is  to  be  heW  until  summer  it  shotiM  be 
wrappc*d  in  clean,  white  paper,  and  a  covering  of  muslin  aewfd 
on  to  protect  it  from  insects.     It  should  be  kept  whi9i»  it  vil 


FOOD  PRESERVATION  633 

not  be  subject  to  extreme  change  of  temperature  or  to  damp- 
ness. 

If  the  meat  is  to  be  kept  for  a  considerable  length  of  time  and 
absolute  safe-keeping  is  desired,  the  following  directions,*  should 
be  followed :  "  For  absolute  safe-keeping  for  an  indefinite  period 
of  time,  it  is  essential  that  the  meat  be  thoroughly  cured.  After 
it  is  smoked  and  has  become  dry  on  the  surface  it  should  be 
wrapped  in  parchment  paper;  or  old  newspapers  will  do  where 
parchment  cannot  be  had.  Then  inclose  in  heavy  muslin  or 
canvas,  and  cover  with  yellow  wash  or  ordinary  lime  white- 
wash, glue  being  added.  Hang  each  piece  out  so  that  it  does 
not  come  in  contact  with  other  pieces.    Do  nob  stack  in  piles. 

"Recipe  for  yellow  wash. — For  100  pounds  hams  or  bacon 
take:  3  pounds,  barytes  (barium  sulphate;  0.06  pound  glue; 
0.08  pound  chrome  yellow  (lead  chromate) ;  0.40  pound  flour. 

"  Half  fill  a  pail  with  water  and  mix  in  the  flour,  dissolving 
all  lumps  thoroughly.  Dissolve  the  chrome  in  a  quart  of  water 
in  a  separate  vessel  and  add  the  solution  and  the  glue  to  the 
flour;  bring  the  whole  to  a  boil  and  add  the  barytes  slowly, 
stirring  constantly.  Make  the  wash  the  day  before  it  is  re- 
quired.   Stir  it  frequently  when  using,  and  apply  with  a  brush.*' 

•  Farmers'  BuU.  183,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agr. 


INDEX 


Accounts,  household,  177 

balancing,  180 

closing,  181 

equipment  for,  177 

forms  of,  177-180,  183-189 

siunmaries  of,  181 
Acetylene,  201 
Acids, 

effect  on  textiles,  249,  283 

in  canning  vegetables,  610,  617 

stains  from,  287 
Adulteration, 

cotton,  308 

linen,  313 

sUk,  322 

wool,  317 
Air  ga.",  201 
Albatross,  312,  319 
Albumin,  410 
Alkalis, 

effect  on  textiles,  249,  283 

in  laundering,  255,  256 

stains  from,  288 
Allspice,  161 
Almonds.  160,  421 
Alpaca,  316,  319 
Alum,  in  laundering,  258 
Aluminum  utensils,  232 
Ammonia, 

for  softening  water,  252 

in  laundering,  254 
Aniline  blue  stain,  289 
Ansmia.  430 
Apples,  160,  417,  422 

in  fireless  cookers,  219 

storage  of,  584 
Apricots,  160.  422 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 
Architecture, 

elements  of  rural,  22 

relation  to  landscape,  21 
Armhole  measurements,  339 


Arrangement, 

of  furnishings.  90 

of  kitchen  utensils,  230 
Arrows,  as  finishes,  369 
Artichokes,  421 
Asphalt  stain  (see  tar),  303 
Asparagus,  421 
Astrakhan,  319 
Awning,  312 

Bacon,  160,  419 

sugar-cured,  624 
Bacteria.  579 
Baking  batters  and  doughs,  479 

utensils  for,  225 

yeast  bread,  495 
Baking  powder,  161 

composition,  476 

homemade,  476 

in  batters  and  doughs,  476 

in  pastry,  491 

proportion  to  be  used,  476 

storage,  476 
Bananas,  160,  417,  422 
Barley  and  rice  bread,  504 
Barley  bread,  503 

Barley,  oat,  and  rice  flour  bread,  504 
Barley,  pearl,  159 
Basting, 

collar,  358 

rules  for,  353 

skirt,  358 

sleeves,  355-358 

tailor's,  350 

waist,  354 
Bathroom, 

care  of,  123,  124 
Batiste,  311 
Batters  and  doughs,  473 

leaking,  479 

baking  powder,  476 

classification,  473 


635 


INDEX 


Batten,  rirop  iMiit«»is,  473 

egE»,  476 

filling  pafii<,  17(1 

flour,  474 

formulas,  482 

ijign^dieritfl.  474 

Mfjuid,  474 

TTibciiiS.  478 

r»our  battrrf,  473 

sborteainn:,,  477 

md&t  474 

Boft  dough  9,  474 

BttIT  douj^hs,  474 

BUgar.  477 

ut^nAila  for  biikin^r,  47S 
HnvHiriftii  on^aR)^,  571 
Bay-window,  31 

Beanfl.  161,416.421 

m  firdeatt  emAvr,  219 
Bedford  cord.  312,319 
BedroomFj 

ehuacter  of«  99 

size  of,  31 
Beds,  123 
Beechnuts,  424 
Beef,  420,  421 

corned,  628 

cuts  of,  511,  517 

dried,  629 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

pickled  tongue,  629 

selection  of,  510 
Beets,  161,  418,  421 
Belt,  foundation,  359 
Bench,  for  laundry,  280 
Bengaline,  323 
Benzine,  in  laundeiing,  255 
Berry  stain,  cooked,  292 

fresh,  291 
Beverages,  465-472 

cocoa,  470 

coffee,  465 

fruit  juices,  472 

tea,  468 
Bins  bands,  for  undergarments. 
Biliousness,  429 
Biscuits,  baking  powder,  480 

frozen  dessert,  574 
Blackberries,  42? 
Blanching,  607 


372 


BUnkt^iM,  watfthiait  oL  270 
HlatiktTl^wiuih.  270 

m%n  gna,  Jul 

Bluriif^rrir^,  422 

in  tmundcrins,  261^  2M 

9tmn,  2hl» 
BoiUng  point  of  walf^,  1^ 
Bf>ll via  doth,  319 
Bc»T&K, 

ior  aoflentrtg  wBtct,  t^t 

111  laundmng,  255,  25^ 

Botulmufi  in  caEmrd  fcMxiw,  <K|0 
]lpiUl)t>fi,  51S 
hnwa.  Mm 
Bmid, 

for  undrfRiinntfnia,  Wf2 
Utiiu,  hit  luutifltAHnir*  254.  25S 
IkniciUtiutA,  424 
Br^*jwJ,  yoasl,  41fi.  434,  496 

Imkinj^,  501 

bariey,  603 

barley  and  rice,  505 

barley,  oat,  and  rice  flour.  504 

bean,  503 

breadcrumb,  503 

brown,  in  fireless  cooker,  219 

corn,  503 

fermentation,  499 

flour,  495 

ingredients,  495 

liquid,  498 

mixer,  499 

mixing  and  kneading.  498 

pans  for  baking,  225 

potato,  503 

proofing,  499 

recipes,  501 

rice,  503 

rolled  oats,  503 

"rope,"  500 

salt-rising.  505 

shaping,  499 

sponge  method.  498 

straight-dough  method.  498 

whratlcss,  504 

white,  159,  430,  50l,  503 

yeast,  497 
Brilliantine.  317 


/  f 


INDEX 


637 


Brioche,  483 
Broadcloth.  319 
Brocade.  323 
Brocatel,  323 
Bniahes, 

care  of,  124 

for  kitchen  use,  228 
Buckles  for  hats.  404 
Buckram.  320 

Building  materiab  for  body,  407,  409 
Bunting,  319 
Burlap  for  ceilings,  43 
Burying, 

method  of  storing  vegetables,  586 
Butcher's  linen,  315 
Butter,  159,  419,  423 

as  growth  promoter,  408 

as     source     of     growth-promoting 
factor,  412 

cakes,  484 

food  value  compared  with  milk,  427 

in  batters  and  doughs,  477 

in  pastry,  491 

place  in  meals,  427 

preservation  of,  582 

stain.  289 
Buttermilk.  423.  426 

in  batters  and  doughs,  474 
Butternuts,  424 

Butter  plate,  placing  on  table,  242 
Butter  substitutes,  427.  428,  477 
Buttonholes,  bound,  370 

Cabbage,  101,  418,  421 

as     source     of     growth-promoting 
factor,  412 

as  source  of  lime,  411 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

storage  of,  587 
Cabinet,  kitchen,  117 
Cakes,  423.  483-489 

butter,  484 

chocolate  in.  485 

classification,  483 

cocoa  in,  485 

fillings.  486 

flavoring,  486 

frostings,  486 

fruits  in,  485 

ingredients,  484 

light,  482 


Cakes,  nuts  in,  485 

pans  for  baking,  225 

rich,  482 

sponge,  482,  4^3 

yeast,  483 
Calcimine, 

for  ceilings,  43 

for  walls,  40 
Calico,  311 
Calories, 

measure  for  fuel  value  of  foods,  412 

portions  of  foods  furnishing,  416- 
424 
Calves-foot  jelly,  421 
Cambric,  311,  315,  371 
Candles,  200 

Candle  wax,  colored,  stain,  290 
Candy, 

in  diet,  431 

stages  in  cooking,  578 

temperature  for  cooking,  677 

to  make  fine-grained,  578 

utensils  for  cooking,  227.  578 
Canned  foods,  buying  of,  445-454 

cans,  450 

color,  446 

com,  449 

extra,  448 

extra  standard,  448 

fancy,  448 

flavor,  446 

form,  447 

fruits,  450 

grading,  445 

labels,  451 

lima  beans,  449 

locality  where  grown,  446 

medium  of  packing,  447 

okra.  449 

peas,  449 

pie  fruit,  447 

preparation,  447 

pulp.  448 

pur6e,  448 

quality,  448 

quantity  value,  452 

seconds,  448 

sirups,  447 

size  of  fruit  or  vegetable,  446 

soaked.  448 

spinach,  449 


INDEX 


Csamtid  foods,  etand&rd  $^»4t^,  447 

string  betmn,  440 

fluggvfitioiis  for  eanimnieri  452 

ffwella*  451 

texture,  445 

tOTimtooB.  449 

trade  (lame*,  151 

tmdtj  turttia^  44B 
rttnm?™,  501 
Vrnmius, 

add    in    rnnuinff    vi?Kctablcs.   611* 

air  in  f?n!i,  fino 

botulinufl,  rtlO 

^Id  dip.  (U)7 

nquipttietit .  (M}1 

fniit  tiy  <?£ild-piipk,  ttO0»  61 1 

fniit  iuieea,  (117 

jgrowth  of  mirrtxiritJitiiauiH,  Aflfli 

hot-wiit^:fr  ^4mic^rB,  flOi 

i<?Uy ,  020 

lyp  for  rt'mo\'ing  fikins.  Oil 

meat  by  cold-pack,  613 

methods,  608 

principles  of,  599 

rubbers.  606 

safety  in  use  of  canned  foods,  609 

score  cards,  618 

sirup,  607 

soup  stock,  614 

standards  for,  608 

steam  cookers,  601 

steam-prcsaure  canners,  601,  602 

storing.  617 

testing  jars,  605 

time-tables,  614-617 

vegetables  by  cold-pack,  612,  613 

water-seal  canners,  601,  602 
Cans,  450 
Cantaloupe,  422 
Canvas.  312 

for  ceilings,  43 
Capers.  563 

Carbon  dioxide,  leavening,  474 
Carpets,  75 
Carrots.  161,  418,  421 

in  fireless  cociker,  219 
Carving  fish,  532 


Cwin,4l0.42iS 
Cmhmi^\  3 JO 
Culchiiit.  423 
Ciiuliflcwer*  421 
C«iliuB, 

nolor  r'it4*nd^  to  mde  wall,  ^ 

metal.  44 

tr»'Atn***tjt  tif,  4**4 

woficlt  44 
Ct4fry,  161,418.  421 

lui    9own?c    of     croi 
fiirt^jn4l2 

Mfd,  161 

aDiifrc  of  limi?.  411 

♦•l^innri'  id*  5*iH 
CdUr,  II 

floor,  121 

for  fruit  istonMcc.  5B3 

fi>f  fft<inii;*%  121 

for  vt*gietAl)lt!  Biomiee.  5JH 

saitit^Lry  ocilldatao&  of«  121 

wuUn.  121 
Ct'iitSjfrnjit*  ?f*ftl#*.  !^2 
Crrpflls, 

as  regulating  food,  411 

as     source     of     growth-promotmc 
factor,  412 

as  source  of  iron,  411 

as  source  of  phosphorus,  411 

as  source  of  protein,  410 

cooking  of,  506-509 

food  value  of.  430 

in  diet  of  nursing  mother.  435 

in  double  boiler.  507 

in  fireless  cooker,  507 

place  in  meals,  430 

starch-rich  food,  408 

time  of  cooking,  506 

to  pop  com,  509 

uses  for  left-over,  508 

utensils  for  cooking,  507 

variations  in  cooking,  508 
Chairs,  measurements  of,  80 
Chalk.  taUor's,  350 
Challis,  319 
Chambray,  312 
Chard,  Swiss,  418 

as     source     of     growth-promotinff 
factor,  412 

as  source  of  lime,  411 


^^ 

639       1 

INDEX 

BcbariottCT.  571 

C1o«)Ct,                                                          i^J 

BCheese,  159.  420.  423 

cleaning,  125                                        ^^^_ 

^B     source  of  liino,  411 

kitchen.  112-118                                  ^H 

^m      source  of  protein,  410 

Closinpi  for  underii;arment«,  379          ^^H 

^r      use  ill  meab,  427 

Cloth  darning.  389                                   ^^M 

'        Cheffle-cltjth,  312 

Clothes  lilies,  care  of,  26«                     ^^M 

Chemirals,  for  stain  removal,  2S5 

Clothes-pins,  care  of,  267                        ^^H 

Chenille,  323 

Clothing.  307-406                                    ^H 

Cherries.  422 

anion  nt  of  material,  342                     ^^^| 

Cher\'il,  564 

basting  garracntt^,  353                         1^^| 

Cheat  nuts.  424 

l>elt,  fonndntion,  359                           _^^| 

^   Cheviot,  320 

cloth  darning,  3S9                                ^^^M 

K  Chicken,  420,  421,  src  poultr>^ 

color,  331-333                                      ^H 

^P       fat  iti  Imtterei  and  doughs,  477 

cutting  garn>ents,  352                         ^^^| 

^        in  firrlcaa  cooker.  219 

design.  330.  331                                    ^H 

ChifToii.  323 

economy  in.  369                                  ^^H 

renovation,  403 

equipment  for  sewinR  room,  334        '       | 

Childrf-n, 

finishes  for  gftrmenta,  364                           J 

adapting  meals  for,  431 

fitting  garments.  360                           ^^^M 

need  for  fine  foods,  412 

for  chiyren.  381-388                          ^^M 

Chimney  seat,  31 

for  mh,  384-388                                ^^H 

China  cloBPts.  116 

makins  of,  330-390                           ^H 

Chiaa  ailk,  323 

makiDS  ol  infant's,  382                     ^^M 

Chinchilla,  320 

making  skirts  ev(;n.  363                   ^^1 

Chintx.  312 

materials  for  infants',  382                 ^^^| 

Chives,  564 

patching.  388                                         ^^M 

Chocolate,  159,  419,  424,  470,  471 

pattcmt».  .340                                               ■ 

tn  cakes,  485 

placing  pattern  on  material .  344               1 

iiib«,  471 

prep?iration  of  materials.  336                     1 

stain,  290 

preventing  seams  from  sagging,  364         1 

Choui  paste,  4R3 

readymade  vs*  home-made,  330               1 

Chroma,  45.  46,  47 

Beama.  368                                                1 

Cinnamon,  161 

aelection  for  children.  381                  ^^^M 

Clara  rhowder,  424 

stocking  darning,  391                         ^^H 

Clams,  421 

taking  of  oieasiirementa,  338             ^^H 

Cleaning.  121-128 

textiles.  307-327                                             ■ 

appftratu,^,  126 

Cloves,  161                                               ^J 

rlo«et.  125 

dujjy  lace,  372                                        ^^H 

lamps.  120 

Coal  range,  210                                      ^^H 

matcriftla  for,  125 

firing,  210                                            ^^H 

piano  eaee.  128 

insnlation,  210                                       ^^^| 

«to\e8.  126 

ki  ndl  i  ng  fi  re,  2 1 0                                        V 

windows.  127 

Cocoa.  159.  4m.  424.  470                              M 

Clocks. 

chocolate,  471                                     ^^H 

alarm.  142 

chocolate  nibs,  471                            ^^H 

care  of,  HI 

composition,  471                                 ^^^H 

moving  of  pendulum.  138 

directions  for  making,  471                ^^H 

regulating,  139 

forms,  470,471                                    ^^M 

setting.  139 

in  eak(^,  485                                       '^^M 

to  eorre<*t  striking  of,  140 

eheUs,  471                                            ^H 

types,  13S 

BtaiD.  290                                            ^H 

ixmx 


if  mi. 

Coffee.  159^465 

GQl6  &u  iait^  467 
r«rep4d5 

deKriog  ib^  lifiuid*  4€^7 
QompOAtion.  4ii5 
devdopmeut  of  Hftvcini,  4(&6 
dtrectioTia  kn  nmklujgt  4IMI 
egg-white  for  cl^eLnng*  46? 
Frc^»cli  drip,  467 
iewlp  4fi7 

pnrotftkir.  466,  467 
pots,  euro  of,  4  67,  46i 
sUiiu  2t>0 

iColdiL.  458 

Color, 

as  background,  49 

characteristics  of,  45 

chroma,  45,  46,  47 

cool,  use  of,  46 

for  farmhouse,  21 

for  interiors,  49 

hue,  45.  46 

importance  of,  45 

in  clothing.  331-333 

influences  of,  46 

in  hat9.  399 

in  kitchens,  118,  119 

in  linen  fabrics.  313 

intensity,  45,  46,  47 

of  ceiling,  51 

of  floors,  51 

of  furnishings,  47-51 

of  walln,  50 

reaction  to,  45 

running,  stain  from,  290 

setting  of.  268 

value.  45,  47 

warm,  use  of.  46 
Colored  clothing. 

ironing  of,  275 

washing  of,  267-269 


C4nuiu»fii4  4:»i 

meM  itir.  430 

ilntg^^  4«31i 

Urk  cif  wat^r^  431 

lumtivp  ffK>djf»  4  Ml 

a«lt  welter,  4ij7 

iri^Ainit^nt  M^  dj*4k  4M 
Cookies,  shi?el«  for  '^^IrfnCj  * 
CookJMp 

PTOM— qf,  3tt 

mgar,  670 

utensjb  ftir,  22S 

i-'cg^tahlra,  543 
Copper  ulcimifl^  233 
Cork  CTu-pfM,  77 
CoRi,  421 

bffotd,  SOI 

flAkM,  4I«.  424 

mcml.  159.  319.  410.  4M 

pujfcd.  416 

sifup,  in  txikirsK,  477 

starch,  159.  257,  416 

to  pop.  509 
Cornices.  43 
Cottage  cheese,  426 
Cottolene  in  pastr>',  491 
Cotton. 

adulteration,  308 

fiber,  307 

mercerisatioD,  309 

quality  of  materials.  307 

standard  materials.  310-312 

tests  for,  326-329 

uses  of  materials,  310 
Cottonseed  oil  in  baking.  477 
Court  bouillon.  529 
Cover,  individual,  at  table,  242 
Covert.  320 
Crackere,  159.  424 
Crack-filler  for  floors.  45 
Cracklings,  520 
Cranberries,  160,  422 
Crash.  312.  313 
Cream.  159.  419.  423 

as  growth  promoter,  409,  412 

in  baking.  477 

place  in  meals,  427 


INDEX 


641 


Cream,  sour,  in  baking,  47^ 

stain,  299 

whipped,  571 
Cream  of  wheat,  in  firelejss  cooker,  219 
Cream  of  tartar.  161 
Creosote  oil  stain  {avc  tar),  303 
Crepe,  312,  371 
Crepe  de  chine,  323 
Cretonne,  312 
Crinoline,  312 
Crochet  lace,  372 
Cross-ventilation  in  house,  15,  23 
Cucumbers,  418,  422 
Cuffs,  364 

Cups,  common  drinking,  123 
Curing  meat,  623 
Currants.  160 
Curtains  {see  draperies) 

lace,  washing  of,  272 
Custard,  423.  537 

baked,  537 

English,  538 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

molded.  538 

royal,  538 

soft,  538 

Dado,  35 
Damask,  315 

cotton,  312 
Dampers  in  stoves,  208 
Darning,  cloth,  389 

bias  tear,  390 

large  hole,  391 

straight  tear.  390 

three-cornered  tear,  390 
Darning,  stocking.  391 
Dates,  160,  417,  422 
Denim,  312 
Density,  153 

influence  of  temperature  on,  156 
Design, 

in  clothing,  330,  331 

of  farmhouse  exterior,  21 
Desserts,  570-575 

Bavarian  creams,  571 

biscuits,  574 

charlottes,  571 

frappfe,  572 

freesing,  575 

froien.  572-574 


Desserts,  frozen  puddings,  574 

fruits,  570 

gelatin.  570 

granites,  573 

ice  creams,  573 

junket,  572 

mousses,  574 

packing  frozen,  575 

parfaits,  574 

sherbets,  572 

sorbets,  573 

8ouffl6s,  frozen,  574 

sponges,  571 

syllabubs,  572 

water  ices,  572 

whipped  cream,  571 

whips,  572 
Dextrin,  in  laundering,  259 
Diagonal.  321 
Diaper,  312 
Dietary,  balanced,  425 
Diet,  for  the  sick  {aee  food  for  the  sick) 
Dimensions,  of  rooms,  33 
Dimity,  312 
Dining  room, 

care  of,  123 

character  of,  99 

size  of,  31 
Dishwashing,  122 
Doilies, 

placing  on  table,  241 

shape  for  table,  241 
Doors, 

as  part  of  wall,  37 

in  exterior  design,  25 

location  in  kitchen,  103 

number  in  kitchen,  104 

number  in  plan,  9 

number  of,  37 

position  of,  16 

relation  to  furnishing,  37,  42 
Dormer  window,  31 
Double  boiler 

for  cereals,  507 

selection  of,  229 
Doughs  and  batters,  473 
Doughnuts,  423 
Drafts  in  stoves,  208 
Draperies,  57-74 

color  of,  61,  62 

for  bedroom,  123 


b 


INDEX 


Snrpsie*,  for  cuscmptit  wind  owe,.  66 

hMki^  oU  m,  m,  m 

lengtli  or,  66 

liouiS.  m,  71 

nuOdnflr,  71-74 

itiAterial  for.  57,  03*  65 

mcBjriLriuic  '>r  flHi  -70 

number  iti  W(ridow>  fiS 

puttcTTi  of,  fil,  K2 

■election  t>r  57*  59,  01*  fl2 

textun?  of,  fJ2,  m 

to  itici^fiAi'  hdgkt  i>f  rt^>tiift.  3^ 

to  rpducc  hcnteht  of  monw,  36 

irfJiiiriK  of,  274 
Drtii¥<?r  fipuci?.  in  kitdie^mt  117 
Dread, 

f^ttiiiitp  361 

fomi.  334 

tuitat^if^  niAteriata  for,  371 
DressimRii  for  p&Uida  (jipf  sftlAcJi*) 
DriU,  312 
Drugs, 

for  constipation,  459 
Drying  fruits  and  vegetables,  588-590 

circulation  of  air,  688 

equipment,  589 

fruits.  588.  590 

outdoors,  589 

storage,  591 

temperature,  588 
Dry  measures,  130 
Duck,  312 
Duml>-waiter,  118 
Dusting.  124 
Dustless  dusters,  124 
Dye  stain,  290 

Egg-beaters, 

preparation  of  new,  232 

types  of,  228 
Eggplant.  422 
Eggs,  159.  420.  424.  534-542 

as  growth  promoters,  409,  412 

as  liquid,  in  batters  and  doughs,  474 

as  source  of  iron.  411 

as  source  of  lime,  410 

as  source  of  phosphorus,  411 

as  source  of  protein,  410 

beating,  535 


,<7« 


eookpd  in  sheU.  53S 
eookiaif.  53-V340 

fiU9lard«,  537 

fd«d,53a 

in  bftit^rs  fuid  dxMtcliPi 

in  dJel  of  nuriuiis  i 

in  s«ucT«,  S53 

koeping,  534 

Itrnvenlnii  power,  -4711,  417 

Ipft-owr  whites,  A34 

left-over  ytilksp  534 

ni«Al  itubetltut4*«  S^% 

m<5rintu^  540,  542 

pUee  la  mm^  429 

pgqwnrmtlwi  oli  Ml 

■cminfalcci,  836 

shirred,  536 

m>uffl6s.  538 

•tain.  291 

tests  for  freshnesB,  534 
BUectricity, 

for  lighting,  202 

high  bills  for,  149 

measurement  of,  147 
Elmbroidery, 

for  under  garments,  372,  373 

ironing  of,  274 

stitch.  366 
Enamelware, 

preparation  for  cooking,  231 

utensils,  234 
Environment,  home,  29,  30 
Equipment, 

arrangement  of  kitchen,  105-110 

for  canning,  601 

for  drying,  589 

for  kitchen,  115-118 

for  laundry,  276-281 

for  salting  vegetables,  592 

for  sewing  room,  334 

for  stain  removal,  285 
Exercise,  relation  to  food  needs,  413, 
431 

Fabrics,  tests  for,  326 
Fahrenheit  scale,  132 
Farina,  in  fireleas  cooker.  219 


INDEX 


643 


Farmhouse, 

alterations  of,  9,  27 

analysis  of  plans  for,  9-19 

architecture  of,  21,  22 

arrangement  of  structural  parts  of, 
11.  12 

cellars  in,  1 1 

color  of,  21 

comers  in,  diagonal,  13,  18 

cross-ventilation  in,  15,  23 

design  of  exterior,  21 

difficulties  in  planning,  8 

doors  in,  9,  16,  25 

hall,  9,  19 

hired  man's  room  in,  18 

improvements,  modem,  20 

in^ework,  use  of,  16 

kitchen  arrangement  in,  17,  18 

living  area  of,  11,  16 

location  of,  7,  8 

modem  m.  old  types,  19 

new  types  of,  11 

office  in,  19 

path  of  travel  in,  16 

plan  for,  1 1 

porches  of,  23,  24 

portals,  25 

proportion,  general,  22 

roof  lines  of,  22,  23 

sleeping  area  of,  11,  14,  23 

structural  elements  of,  23 

terrace,  use  of,  16 

test  of  plan  for,  18 

traditional  types  of,  8 

vistas  in,  value  of.  11,  16 

washroom,  in  location  of,  13 

woodroom,  in  location  of,  13 

working  area  of,  11,  13,  16 

working  distances,  shortening  of,  1 1 
Farmstead,  7,  8 

Fastenings  for  undergarments,  379 
Fat, 

as  liquid,  in  batters  and  doughs,  474 

clarification,  522 

combinations  of,  520 

digestibility,  520 

flavor,  520 

foods  rich  in,  408 

growth-promoting  substance  in,  412 

hardness,  520 

in  batters  and  doughs,  477 


Fat,  in  cooking,  620 
in  pastry,  491 
mutton,  521 

savory,  523 

temperature  of  cooking,  520 

trying  out,  522 
Feathers, 

renovation,  403 
Felt,  320 

renovation  of  white,  403 
Fermentation, 

method  of  preservation,  698 

of  bread,  499 

of  vegetables,  599 
Fever,  diet  in,  462 
Fiber  utensils,  230 
Figs,  160,  417,  422 
Filberts,  424 
Filing,  of  records,  176 
Fillet  lace,  372 
Fillings  for  cakes,  486 
Finishes, 

arrows,  369 

bound  buttonholes,  370 

collars,  364 

cuffs,  364 

embroidery  stitches,  367 

for  bottom  of  skirt,  367 

for  drawers,  376 

for  garments,  364 

for  nightgown,  376 

for  underskirt,  377 

for  waist-line,  378 

set-in  pocket,  368 

waist-line,  366 
Firejess  cooker,  207,  214 

care  of,  216 

commercial  oa.  home-made,  214 

cost  of  home-made,  214 

directions  for  making,  216 

for  cereals,  507 

for  keeping  foods  cool,  224 

intelligent  use  of,  217 

materials  for  making,  216 

selection,  214 

time  of  rooking,  217 

time-table  for.  219 

use  of,  218 

use  of  radiators,  214 
Fires, 

care  of,  191 


Fires,  kindliTks  af,  310 

Fiah,  527-530 

boiliiiSt  528 

broiluig.  531 
care*  527 

elaieificatiooi  ri27 
cloaning,  528 
A  cooltirjj^  52^-530 
flying,  £82 
prapviitioD.  598 
,531 


flkmuiiiCi  63o 
FlttiiiscumMiti.3Q0 

houae-drMi.  361 

diirt-miit.  361 
Flannel,  371 

lMifcy.820 

canton,  811 

IVenoh,320 

uoning  of,  276 

Shaker.  320 

silk-warp,  320 

washing  of.  269 
Flannelette.  311 
Flavoring  in  cakes,  486 
Floors. 

bedroom,  123 

care  of  sewing  room,  334 

carpets,  74 

color  of,  44 

cork  carpet,  77 

coverings,  74-77 

finish  of,  44.  45.  118 

functions  of,  74 

ingrain  filling,  78 

kitchen,  118 

linoleum,  77 

number  in  house  plan,  3 

permanency  of,  44 

rugs,  74,  75,  76 

to  wax,  128 

wood- veneer  carpet,  78 
Flour, 

bread.  474,  490,  495 

graham,  159,  496 

manufacture  of,  496 

pastry,  474,  490 


Wkm,  ivbite,  im,  4WT 
whctl^whcai,  IS0.  107 

renovatioD  for  hmt  \ 
Flf-fiaper  oCaIii,  201 

fortwU,  405 

Ftm^,  406 
roiMttiM,  IMO.  &41 
Foodn,  407-633 
of,  426 

oontainiQi 
fa0ton,412 

for  difldrMi,  407 

foriniaiili,4S5 

for  nuning  i 

fomnMi* 

foctheiiBk.46g  Hi 

fad,  408 

lasalhre,400 

metlioda  of  kMpias  eool,  288 

pivaarvatkm  of  .  £7^-883 

lecnlatine.  408 

lioli  in  f at,  408.  418 

rich  in  iron,  411 

rich  in  lime,  410 

rich  in  phosphorus,  411 

rich  in  protein,  409,  420 

rich  in  starch,  408.  419 

rich  in  sugar.  409,  417 

serving  of,  244-246 

to  supply  needs  of  body,  408 

weights  and  measures  of,  159-167 
Footing,  for  undergarments,  372 
Forks, 

handling  at  table,  247 

placing  on  table.  242 
Formulas. 

for  batters  and  doughs,  482 
Foulard.  323 

Fowls,  420.    See  pouitr>'. 
Frapp68,  572 

Freesers,  preparation  of  new,  232 
Freezing  desserts,  574 
French  dressing,  565 
Frostings  for  cakes,  486-^489 
Frosen  desserts,  572 
Frosen  puddings,  574 
Fruit  juices, 

as  beverages,  472 

canning.  619 


INDEX 


645 


Fruit  juices,  extraction,  619 
Fruits, 

as  dcsacrts.  570 

as  regulating  food,  411 

as  source  of  iron,  411 

as  source  of  protein,  410 

canned.  448 

canning  by  cold-pack,  609,  611,  612 

drying.  588.  590 

in  cakes,  485 

in  diet  of  nursing  mother,  435 

place  in  meals,  427 

stain,  291.  292 

storage  of.  583,  584 

utensils  for  stewing.  227 
Frying,  utensils  for,  227 
Fuel, 

advantages  and  disadvantages,  200 

consumption  of.  193 

kinds  for  heating,  196 
Fuel  foods,  408 

estimating  needs  of  body  for,  412- 
415 

need  of  nursing  mother  for,  434 
Fuller's  earth, 

in  laundering,  254 

soaps  containing,  255 
F^imishing,  home,  29-99 

adaptation  to  locality,  30 

arrangements    of    furnishings,    92, 
94 

ceiling.  43 

color.  45-51 

consistency  in,  29,  30 

cornices,  43 

doors,  37,  42 

fitness  to  use,  30 

floors.  44 

floor  coverings,  74-77 

furniture,  78-86 

hangings,  55-74 

individual  problem,  29 

mantelpieces.  43 

pattern,  51-53 

permanence  of,  29 

picture  moldings,  43 

pictures,  8S-89 

plaster  walls,  finish  of,  39,  40 

selection  of  furnishings,  54-91 

shape  and  proportion  of  rooms,  31, 
37 


Furnishing,  simplicity  in,  30 

size  of  rooms,  30,  31 

small  furnishings,  90-91 

structural  consideration  of  rooms, 
30-45 

structural  surfaces,  37-45 

trim  of  walls,  41,  42 

wainscots,  40 

wall  coverings,  54,  55 

windows,  relation  to,  37 
Furnace, 

care  of,  197,  198 

pipes.  198 

size  of,  194 
Furniture.  78-86 

construction  of,  81-84 

design  of,  81-84 

function  of,  78,  80,  81 

relation  to  other  furnishings,  88 

selection  of,  78 

to  diminish  height  of  rooms,  35 

to  diminish  length  of  rooms,  37 

to  increase  height  of  rooms,  35 

to  increase  length  of  rooms,  37 

upholstery,  85 

Galatea.  312 
Garlic,  564 
Gas, 

cost  an  hour,  145 

in  batters  and  doughs,  473 

for  lighting,  201 

high  bills  for,  146 

measurement  of,  143 
Gas  range.  211 

adjustment  of  burners,  211 

to  clean,  126 
Gauze,  312 
Gelatin,  160 
Gelatin  desserts,  570 
Gingham,  311,  371 
Glass, 

curtains,  63,  65  • 

placing  on  table,  242 

preparation  of  new,  232 
Gloria,  320 
Glucose,  in  body,  408 
Glue. 

in  laundering.  259,  260 

stain,  292 
Gluten.  473.  496 


646 


INDEX 


Goats*  hnir,  316 

Gooee.  421 

Gooseberries,  422 

Graham  flour.  496 

Grains  (see  cereals.) 

Granites  (desserts).  573 

Grape  fruit,  160,  422 

Grape  juice,  422 

Grapes.  160.  417.  422 

Grass  stain.  292 

Gravy  stain.  298 

Grease  stain.  292 

Green  foliage,  stain.  292 

Greens,  as  source  of  growth-promoting 

factor.  412 
Grenadine.  320 
Griddle  cakes.  482 
Growth-promoting  factors.  412 
needs  of  nursing  mother.  434 
Gruel  stain  {see  white  sauces).  306 
Gum  arabic,  in  laundering.  258,  259, 

261 
Gums,  stain  (see  resinous  substances), 

301 

Ilalihut.  421 
Hall. 

renter  of  plan.  9 

for  (I()\vn>>tair.-J  IxMlroonis,  19 

funii«<hinjjs  of,  9.') 

pas.sinif  of,  large,  19 

>\z('  (»f.  -M 
Ham.  420 

in  finl.'vs  rook<T.  219 

simar-curc*!.  024 
llanil.iiru  >t<  :ik.  iVM) 
Ilandkrrcliicf  linen.  'MT) 
llandkcrfliicf'^.  ironini^  of,  27r) 
llanuin^js,  for  window.s  and  doors,  55- 
74 

purpdvc  of.  .V) 

type.  ..f.  55 
Hats  (sti  millinery) 
Head-cheese.  027 
He.-it.  1<M 

care  of  fires,  191 

eost  of.   192 

r;idi:ili..ri.  191 
He.atinj.'  .-y>teni.   19.'^ 
Henistifeliini;.     in.aehine     for     under- 
Kannent.s,  .'^73 


Henrietta.  320 

Herbs,  for  salads.  563 

Home  furnishing  (see  fumMhiiic) 

HomeqNin.  320 

Hominy,  159.  416.  424 

in  fiielesB  cooker,  219 
Honey,  417.  427 
Hot-water  canners,  601 
House, 

care  of,  121-128 

cost  of.  2,  25,  26 

estimating  cost  of.  26 

modem  compared  with  old  typo. 
26,27 
House  furnishing  (see  fumiahing) 
Household  administration,  rriatkn  tu 

arrangement  of  8i>aoe.  1 
Household  records.  175 

accounts,  177 

classification  of,  175 
House  plan, 

economy  of.  4.  11.  14.  15 

exposure  of  rooms.  3 

floors,  number  of.  3 

floor  spare  in.  onjanixation  nf.  2 

for  family  of  little  ehil<ln*n.  5 

living  area  of,  arrangement  <>f.  2 

one-floor,  simple  houst'ki-i'piiij;  t.f.  4 

shape  of  rooms  in,  :i 

sleeping  rooms,  privacy  of,  3 

starting  jx)int  of.  2 

value  of  sound.  1,  2 

windows  in.  'A,  Ih,  22,  23 
Huckaback.  315 
Hue.  45.  40 
Hydrogen  peroxide,  for  stain  removal. 

2H6 
IIydn)met<'rs.  154 

classes.  1.54 

use  of.  l.')5 

Ice  cream.- 424.  573 

flavorins^s.  57^} 

freezing.  575 

packing.  575 

stain.  294 

texture.  573 
Iceless  refrigerator.  221 
Ices.  572 

Improv<'ments.  modem,  in  hous«^.  20 
Indelible  pencil  stain.  294 


INDEX 


647 


India  silk.  323 
Indigestion,  '461 
Infants,  feeding  of,  435 
Inglenook,  16,  31 
Ingrain  filling,  78 
Ink-removere,  286 
Ink  stain,  marking,  295 

printing,  295 

writing,  295 
Intensity,  relation  to  color,  45,  46,  47 
Interior  finish  of  kitchen,  118-119 
Iodine  stain,  296 
Iron, 

foods  rich  in,  411 

needs  of  nursing  mother,  434 

preparation  of  new,  for  cooking,  231 

utensils,  235 
Ironing,  273-276 

colored  garments,  275 

covering  of  board,  274 

drawers,  274 

embroideries,  274 

equipment  for,  273 

flannels,  275 

handkerchiefs,  275 

laces,  274 

napkins,  275 

night  dresses,  274 

order  of,  274 

pillow  cases,  275 

sheets.  275 

shirt-waists,  274 

silk  garments,  275 

skirts,  274 

tablecloths,  274 

towels,  275 

waists,  silk,  274 
Ironing-blanket,  280 
Ironing-board,  280 
Ironing  machines.  277 
Iron-rust  stain,  297 
Irons,  278 

Jams.  622 
Japanese  silk,  323 
Jars,  for  canning.  604 

testing,  605 

types,  604 
Javelle  water, 

for  bleaching.  272 

formula,  273 


Javelle  water,  for  stain  removal,  285 
Jelly,  620 

dishes,  on  table,  243 

extractions  of  juice,  619 

pectin  test,  620 

proportion  of  sugar,  621 

requisites,  620 

sealing,  622 

test  when  done,  622 

time  of  boiling,  621 

utensils  for  cooking,  228 
Jersey  cloth,  323 
Junket,  572 
Jute,  325 

Kerosene,  209 

for  bathroom.  123 

for  lighting,  200 

for  sinks,  122 

in  laundering,  254,  255,  258,  265 
Kerosene  stove,  209 

operation  of,  210 
Kersey,  320 
Khaki.  312 
Kitchen,  122 

alcove  in,  101 

arrangement,  17,  18 

color  scheme  of,  118.  119 

combined  with  dining-room,  102 

doors,  103 

equipment,    arrangement   of,    105- 
110 

exposure,  102 

flooring,  118 

interior  finish,  118-119 

lighting,  119 

measurements,  156-161 

paint  in,  119 

pantries,  112 

planning  of,  100-119 

plans,  discussion  of,  110-112 

range,  108,  109 

remodeling  of,  101 

shape  of.  102 

sink,  109 

size  of,  31,  103 

storage  space,  112-118 

table  space  in,  107 

use  of,  100-102 

utt»nsila,  225-239 

waUs.  119 


INDEX 


KitdbiD,  wiadowfl,  104^105 
[    woodfTotic,  118 
'Knitted  e&rmefitc. 

wf^hiijg  of*  271 
Kjiivi?Sp 

for  kitf^ben  uae,  228 

handling  at  t&bk,  Zi% 

pladof  on  tablCf  242 
KumyiM,  423 

L&bdji  on  canned  foods,  451 

bleoehiiye  of,  272 

iit>mnK  of*  !I74 

for  cmd(»igarm<mtii,  ^72 

iTtiovfttion*  402 

wafihmg  of,  272 
LA{^e  atfiiwr,  405 
LadyfiUKPra,  423.  4ft:* 
h&tiiK  420.  421 

flelpctinn  of,  510 
LaiiiMKi,  202.  '2tm 

cikn*  of  kt>ro«i^nf%  201 

dccmiii|£  of,  1^ 

selection  of,  90,  91 
Lard,  159.  419,  627 

in  baking.  477 

in  pastry,  491 

substitutes,  in  baking,  477 
Laundering.  249-281 

acids,  effect  on  fabrics,  249 

alkalis,  effect  on  fabrics,  249 

bleaching,  273 

bluing.  261,  266 

equipment  for,  276-281 

for  stain  removal,  283 

ironing.  273-276 

purposes  of,  249 

room  for,  276 

soap,  253-257 

soap    substitutes    and    accessories, 
254-257 

softening  water  for,  250-253 

starch,  257-261,  266 

supplies  for,  281 

washing.  261-272 

water  for,  250-253 
Lawn,  312 
I^Axative  foods,  460 
Lead-foil  stain,  298 
Lead-pencil  stain.  296 


411 


4.14 


LiBth«7.  finiit,  501 
Leather  slalii,  2m 

Lffpimc!^, 

as     idUinec     of 
fikcior«410 

ajH  source  of  plio^^borus^  • 

ua  Boyrcv  of  pratdti^  4 10 

Ata^eh-ric^  food,  408 
Lemon  jtiic<p,  lOl,  422 
LemooB,  417,  422 
Length  mcin^ure*  131 
LontiL%  161,  422 
Li^ttucc.  418,422 

Hourre  of  lime,  411 
LifthtiiJic.  I  fit  201 

i%mt  ni.  201 

diiftfibiitinii  o(,  20& 

kitehi^ij.  im 

t>  T«*,  201 
Iimt'v410 

foodfl  rich  In,  410 

mJllE  as  Bimrfv  i>f,  411 

ne^s  of  rjiiminK  maihi^ir, 

staiit  from  slAckwl.  "2Wf< 
Linen,  371 

adulteration,  313 

color.  313 

fabrics.  315 

fiber.  312 

selection.  314 

sizing.  314 

tests  for,  326-328 
Linoleum,  77 

for  kitchen  floors,  118 
Linon,  312 
Linsey  woolsey,  320 
Liquid  measures,  130 

testing.  130 
Liquids,  density  of,  153 
Liver,  421 

Living  area,  in  house  plana,  2,  II,  U 
Living-room,  30 

character  of,  95,  97 

siseof,  30 
Lobster,  421 
Longcloth,  311.  371 
Lye, 

for  softening  water,  251 

in  laundering,  255 
Macaroni,  159,  416,  424 

in  fireleas  cooker,  219 


INDEX 


649 


Macaroons.  423,  483 
Mackerel.  421 
Mackinaw.  320 
Malnutrition,  426 
Mantelpieces.  43 
Mantles,  gas,  201 
Marketing,  438-454 

amount  to  buy,  440 

bulk  V8.  package,  441 

canned  foods,  445-454 

discounts,  444 

good  buying,  438 

grade  of  food,  439 

inspection  on  delivery,  444 

kind  of  food,  439 

labeb,  439,  451 

package  vs.  bulk,  441 

price,  443 

records,  444 

servings  of  vegetables,   in  pound, 
440 

storage,  445  • 

units  of  sale,  442 

where  to  buy,  443 
Marmalade,  423 
Mayonnaise  dressing,  566 
Meals,  planning  of,  407-437 

balance  in,  425 

food  combinations,  432 

foods  for  supplying  needs  of  body, 
408 

food  needs  of  body,  407 

for      all      members      of      family. 
431 

fuel  requirement,  412 

iron  requirement,  415 

lime  requirement,  415 

phosphorus  requirement,  415 

protein  requirement,  414 

rules  for,  425 
Measurements,  129-174 

for  commodities,  129 

for  electricity,  147 

for  gas,  143 

for  temperature,  131 

for  time,  138 

for  water,  151 

in  garment  making,  338 

kitchen,  166-161 

sealing  of,  129 

testing  of,  129.  130,  134 


Measures,  439 

and  weights,  equivalent,  of  foods, 
159 
Meat,  510-526 

as  growth  promoter,  409,  412 

as  source  of  iron,  411 

as  source  of  phosphorus,  411 

as  source  of  protein,  410 

canning,  613 

care,  516 

cooking  of,  512 

cooling,  622 

curing,  623 

curing  beef,  627-629 

curing  mutton  and  lamb,  629 

curing  pork,  624-627 

fats  in  baking,  477 

fat  in  cooking,  519 

keeping,  519 

market  trimmings,  519 

packing  in  fat,  623 

packing  in  snow,  623 

place  in  meals,  429 

preservation  of,  622-633 

preservatives  for  curing,  624 

putrefaction  in  digestive  tract,  429 

sausages,  630 

selection  of,  510 

smoke-house  for,  631 

smoking,  631 

soucHmaking.  514,  516 

temperature  for  keeping,  623 

tender  cuts,  512 

tough  cuts,  513 

utensils  for  cooking,  226 
Meat-juice  stain,  298 
Meat  substitutes,  427 
Medicine  stain,  298 
Melton,  320 
Mending,  388-392 
Menus,  432.  433,  436,  437 
Mercerization,  cotton,  309 
Meringues,  483,  540 

for  desserts,  540 

for  garnishes,  540 

for  pics,  540 

Italian,  542 

snow  eggs,  540 
Metals, 

protection  of,  231 
Meteor,  324 


650 


INDEX 


wiit«r,  Ifit 
M^trk  iq^bU^q,  I«T-I74 
Ml£n)«owiil«mA,  fcrmii^  900 

in  Miilioii  If  J  t|MiiU|pe,  570 

Milrfrw  Mjiwi.  29K 
Milk,  I5y.  1:^0,  42S 

m  rnmir**  of  Uinr*,  4  JO 

I Ai  iKiurci?  c*/  p|]Da|>hc»niH,  €U 

^^K  »di  •auff^  fpf  prt}U4n<  410 

^^H.  «ffi*ct  of  hf>JHnK  on,  42H 

^^K  food  value  c'otnpELft'cl  with  hutter, 

^H       42? 

^^"    for<^yMrv*n,  436 

V         for  mfnotni  4^ 

■  in  dift  of  niiriiifiiE  motKcr^  434 

■  riKirllflf^Jf  St)f  tyi»tHiid  fi»vf^«  4^3 
P  pltit't'  In  mfrtij^,  427 

flour,  in  baking,  474 

stain,  299 

value  of,  425 

ways  of  including  in  meals,  432 
Millinery.  393-406 

brims,  396 

color.  399 

for  round  face,  397 

for  square  face.  398 

hair  in  relation  to,  397 

line  and  form.  396 

placing  on  head.  394,  395 

proportion  and  balance,  393 

renovating  materials.  400 

selection  of  hat«,  393 

size  of  crown.  394 

size  of  hat«.  396 

storing  old  hats,  400 

trimming.  399,  404 
Mineral   substancc^s,   loss  in   cooking 

vegetables,  545 
Mirror,  to  increase  length  of  rooms,  35 
Mohair.  318 
Moir6.  324 
Moisture,    in    relation    to    vegetable 

storage,  584 
Mola8s<»s.  160,  417,  423 

in  baking,  474,  477 


MArfU&tn  in 


MillSMk  483 
Mult  312 

littiiil>rc«iciM,  420 

MuaUrd,  Ifll 
Miittmi,  421 

inirinii*  i'i3?* 
cnt3  of,  511,  dt^ 
fAt  iu  ctitAkitii,  521 

fldeoHoii  of,  &I0 

K«lt>»c>k,  SU,  S7t 

KflpkitLt. 

^\. ,,  .',<•■■  . .'     ■'  't 

placing  on  taUe.  243 
Nasturtium,  564 
Nectannes,  422 
Nickel  utensils.  236 
Night  dresses,  ironing  of,  274 
Nutrition,  and  foods,  407-633 
Nuts, 
^  in  cakes,  485 

source  of  protein,  410 

Oatmeal.  159,  424 
Oats,  rolled,  159,  416 

bread.  503 

in  fireless  cooker,  218 
Office  in  farmhouse,  19 
Oil,  160,  419 

stain,  (road),  302.    (See  tAr) 
Olive  oil  in  baking.  477 
OUves,  419,  422,  423 
Omelets,  424,  536-537 

French,  536 

puffy,  537 

starchy  foundation,  537 
One-hundred-caloric  portions, 

cakes,  423 

cereals,  424 

dairy  products,  423 

desserts,  423 


r  ^ 


INDEX 


051 


One-hundred-calorie  portions, 

foods  rich  in  fat,  419 

foods  rich  in  protein,  420 

foods  rich  in  starch.  416 

foods  rich  in  sugar,  417 

fruits,  422 

meats,  421 

miscellaneous,  424 

nuts,  423  ^ 

pastry,  423 

pickles,  423 

puddings,  423 

succulent  vegetables,  418 

sweets,  423 

vegetables,  421 
Onions,  161,  418,  422.  564 

as     source     of     growth-promoting 
factor.- 412 

as  source  of  lime.  410 

in  fireless  cooker.  219 
Oranges.  160.  417.  422 
Organdie,  312 
Organic  matter,  removal  from  water, 

253 
Ovens, 

height  of.  207 

insulated.  207,  211 

temperature  of,  479 
Oxalic  acid,  for  stain  removal,  285 
Ox-bile.  253 
Oysters,  421.  532-533 

cleaning.  532 

cocktail.  533 

cooking.  533 

on  half  shell.  532 

opening,  532 

preparation.  532. 

season,  532 

selection,  532 

serving,  533 

Packing  frozen  desserts,  574 
Paint, 

for  floors,  44,  45 

for  plaster  walls,  39,  40 

for  woodwork,  42 

in  kitchen.  119 

stain,  298,  299 
Panama  cloth,  320 
Panne,  324 
Pans,  filling  for  baking,  479 


Pantries,  112-116 

food  pantry,  114,  115 

pass  pantry,  114.  115 

purpose  of,  114 
Paper, 

for  ceilings,  43 

for  kitchen  use,  230 

for  walls,  40 

utensils,  230 
Paraffin, 

in  laundering,  254,  255.  258 

stain,  300 
Parfaits,  574 
Parsley,  564 
Parsnips.  161,  418,  422 
Paste,  fruit.  591 
Pastry.  490-494 

baking  powder,  491 

characteristics  of  good,  491 

classification,  490 

fat,  491 

flakiness,  492 

flaky,  493 

flour,  490 

ingredients,  490 

lightness,  491 

liquid.  490 

plain,  492 

puff,  494 

salt,  491 

tenderness.  492 

to  make  tender,  490 
Patching, 

hemmed.  388 

overhand,  389 
Pattern,  51-53 

characteristics  of  good,  51-53 

for  floors,  53 

for  walls,  53 

kinds  of  motifs,  52,  53 
Patterns  for  clothing, 

adjustments  in,  342 

marking  for  basting.  348 

placing  on  material,  344 

to  buy  commercial.  341 

to  test  commercial,  341 
Peaches,  417,  422 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 
Peanut  butter,  419 
Peanuts,  160,  424 

substitute  for  animal  food,  410 


PcttTB,  423 
Peas,  4 IB,  4 IS*  422 
JNau  dc  scjif*.  324 
PecMti.^,  424 
Pe«^in,  620 

mdoUKle.  2M 

Wd.  208 
Peppc^f,  161 
Percidcs  312 
PerapiratioQ  st«iii|  301 
PhoiSp horns.  411 

foods  rieb  ii^t  411 

aeedii  of  nunstng  niother.  434, 
Piano  C!aae»  cljcanki^  of«  V2H 
Piekl€«.  4Sa  ^^^B 

diahee  on  tahks  243  ^^^^m 

Mt&iii,  303-    jScc  turmmc     ^B^Hs 
Picture  moldiiici,  48 

to  inoreaae  bdcht  of  nxnii,  86 

to  reduce  heii^t  of  roomflk  8Sw 
Pictures  35.  88-00 

frames  for,  89 

hanging  of,  89,  90 

to  increase  height  of  rooms,  35 

to  reduce  height  of  rooms,  35 
Pie,  423  (see  pastry) 

crust  baked  without  filling,  493 

pans  for  baking,  226 

two-crust,  493 
Pigs'  feet,  pickled,  626 
Pillowcases,  ironing  of,  275 
Pineapples,  423 
Pine-nuts,  424 
Pipes,  furnace,  198 
Piqu6,  312 
Pitch  stain,  301 
Pits, 

for  fruit  storage,  584 

for  vegetable  storage,  586 
Plackets  for  undergarments,  379 
Plans  for  house  (ace  house  plan,  and 

farmhouse) 
Plaster  walls, 

rough,  30 

smooth,  39 

smooth,    covered    with    paper    or 
textiles.  40 

smooth,  painted,  40 
Plate,  placing  on  table,  243 


Plush.  324 
Pm^kct.  set-m.  36S 
Pongprs  324 
Pojjc<ini,  424 
Poplin.  312,  3S4 
Popovtrs.  482 
Pon^bcs.  24*  2a 
Poric,  421 

brijie  «iilt,  9M 

cuts  of.  512.  518 

dry-etireil,  0(36 

sausage.  630 

eelnetioii  of,  511 
PortjUs,  25 

Portieres,  51^  m,  60«  73.  74 
Potttsatum    p^^MiipuiAt*.    Sm 

remavol,  2Sfi 
Pf*tAt«,  IBl,  416,  422 

braKl,503 

in  firelea  ooolnr,  219 

■tardi  for  iMUMkflBS.  SB7 

Witter  for  iMinderii^.  264.  257 
Pottery  utensila,  286 
Pot  roasts,  pans  for  cookins.  226 
Poultry,  511,  524-526 

canning.  613 

cleaning,  524 

cooking,  525 

dressing,  524 

selection  of,  511,  524 

to  roast  chicken,  525 
'  to  stew  chicken,  525 
Preservation  of  food,  579-d33 

butter,  582 

canning,  599-620 

causes  for  spoiling,  579 

drying,  580 

drying  fruits  and  vegetablea,  588- 
592 

eggs,  581 

high  temperature,  581 

low  temperature,  580,  581 

meat,  622-631 

methods,  579 

preservatives,  580,  624 

salting  vegetables,  502-597 

storage  of  fniit,  583 

storage  of  vegetables,  584 
Pressing,  337 
Pressing  boards,  334 
Pressure  cooker  as  f  uel-aaver,  206 


ii 


INDEX 


653 


Proportion, 

changing  apparent,  33 

in  farmhouse,  22 
Protein, 

as  source  of  energy,  409 

comparative  value  of  various  pro- 
teins, 410 

estimating  daily  allowance  of,  414 

foods  rich  in,  410 

in  stains,  283 

needs  of  nursing  mother,  434 

proportion  of  animal  and  plant  in 
meals,  415 
Prunella,  320 
Prunes,  160,  417,  422 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 
Prussian  blue  stain,  289 
Pudding.  423 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

frozen,  574 
Pumpkins,  422 

Putrefaction  in  digestive  tract,  429, 
430 

Radiation,  191 
Radishes,  422 
Raisins,  160,  417,  422 
Ramie,  325 

tests  for,  326 
Ranges  (see  stoves) 

ash  removal,  108,  109 

location  in  kitchen,  107 

ventilating  flue  for,  108 
Raspberries,  423 
Ration,  balanced,  425 
Records,  household,  175 

accounts,  177 

classification  of,  175 

keeping  of,  176 
Refrigerators,  220 

best  use  of,  221 

current  of  air,  221 

iccless,  221 

insulation,  220 

location  of  ice  compartment,  220 

location  of  icing-door,  220 

sanitary  construction,  221 

selection  of,  220 

size  of  ice  compartment,  220 
Regulating  substances,  407 

in  fats,  408 


Renovating  materials,  for  hats,  400 

Rep,  312 

Repair  kit.  124 

Resin  stain,  301 

Rhubarb.  418,  422 

Ribbons, 

for  hats,  405 

renovation,  402 

washing  of,  272 
Rice,  159,  416,  424 

bread,  503 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

starch  for  laundering.  258,  260 

water  for  laundering,  254 
Rippleette,  371 
Roasts,  pans  for  cooking,  226 
Rolls.  424 
Roof  lines,  22,  23 
Rooms, 

exposure  of,  3 

relation  between  three  dimensions 
of.  33 

shape  of,  2 

shape  and  proportion  of,  31-37 

size  of,  30 

sleeping,  privacy  of,  3 

structural  consideration  of,  30-45 

treatment  of  high,  33 

treatment  of  low,  35 

treatment  of  short,  35 

treatment  of  square,  35 
Root  crops. 

storage  of.  587 
"Ropiness"  in  bread,  500 
Rubbers,  606 
Rugs.  74-76 

color  of.  75 

pattern  of.  76 

size  and  proportion  of,  76 

to  diminish  length  of  rooms,  37 

to  increase  length  of  rooms,  37 

to  remedy  color  effect,  44 

Sage.  564 

Salad  dressings,  564 

bacon.  569 

cooked.  568 

cream.  566 

French.  565 

mayonnaise,  566 

stain,  301 


Be54 

Ji^fM^X                                            H 

■       EdndM,  im^m^ 

Scwmir  iii»^bbi«.  :S34                         ^H 

hf^rhri,  f^i 

MtitAfufiU^,  334                                 ^^M 

MNiKTiiH  tar  jin^rui,  5414 

loek  «lit^h.  334                                   ^ 

Sttliflyiic  ticick 

op^Btion  of  lof  k  at|l£b«  3:94 

Sr-winn-rncifD, 

i            Halioim,  42U,  42! 

*'«jiiijitn*»ot  f€>r*  334 

^    Sili,  mi 

Bhftd.  421 

^^       oot^tAinm,  on  Ubtc.  L*43 

8h>idf^  for  wtodavm,  fifii,  M 

^V       Iq  cooklniE  voinlAblfHi,  5'14 

Htii^ttiliK.  ^io 

^H        ptwk.  tiKms  f)2fl 

Hbeeif,  inxitB^  ol»  37£ 

^H        -Hflitig  bfC'odk  505 

Oiclvks.  ftifuisemeei  tiT,  110 

^"         water,  ftif  *?onBtipotioii,  45il 

ilMcbiU,  6T2 

aiJtijiK  vi*tn^t(ii«ii«»».  iisn-mi 

SbiiVwuitA.  b^tdm  ^t  274 

cwv,  mn 

Bto^.ZlS 

cqutpuii^Dt,  5i92 

Sb06Hit<Q«iAR  mtMAn,  302 

^^         fprnmrvtHtioii  iti  add  brino,  fi07 

fllkOtittiiJlit.  ifi  b^kibc.  477 

^f         ml  on  tfurfnoe,  59U 

gj^'iimn,  320 

^^         pftTuflflo  on  aurfucc\  ^i>5 

SUenoe  dQih,  far  laUe,  Sil 

pTi^ptittiUan  fof  tuMis  J!)WI 

8il««J«,  312 

'                preventing  iwttin,  &'3S 

mk,'^7l 

0tora8«,  5&g 

ftdukerAtion,  322 

wtthoui  fi*mt{^nttitb(if  J>07 

ftrtiBdal.  324,  SM 

Burocnet.  324 

fnKncfi,  323 

Siiteen,  312,  371 
Batin,  324 
Sauces,  552-560 

brown,  553,  557 

butter,  553,  556 

sirup,  561 

solid.  562 

sweet,  559-561 

thickened  with  egg,  553,  558 

white,  552,  554,  555 
Sausages,  630 
Saut^ing. 

utensils  for,  227 
Scales,  weighing,  129 

capacity,  129 

use,  129 
Scorch  stain,  301 
Score  cards  for  canned  food,  618 
Scrim,  312 
Seams.  358 

fell,  373 

for  undergnrmentw,  373,  375 

French.  373 

plain.  373 

to  prevent  sagging,  364 
Serge,  320 


fil»er.  321 

iitmioK  of,  273 

tctttft  for.  326-320 

washing  of,  271 
Silver  nitrate  stain  (set  ink,  maridng). 

295 
Silver  utensils.  237 
Sinks.  109 

care  of,  122 

use  of,  122 
Sirup,  423 

for  canning  fruit,  608 
Sizing, 

cotton,  308 

linen,  314 
Skewers,  for  kitchen  use.  230 
Skins  of  fruits,  removal  in  ra^wwiwg^ 

611 
Skirts, 

amount  of  material  for,  343 

basting,  358 

ironing  of,  274 

making  even  at  bottom,  363 

mc^asurements,  340 

to  make  even  at  bottom,  363 
Sleeping  area  in  houae  plans,  11,  14, 

23 


INDEX 


655 


Sleeping-rooms,  123 
Sleeve, 

basting.  355,  357 

board.  280 

form.  334 

measurements,  340 
Smoking  meats,  630-633 
Soap,  253-256 

accessories,  254-256 

bark.  254 

borax,  255 

homemade,  254,  256 

jelly,  257 

naptha,  255,  265 

solutions,  256 

stain,  302 

substitutes,  254-257 
Soapstone. 

utensils.  237 
Soda,  161 

in  baking.  474 

in  cooking  vegetables,  545 

proportion  to  be  used,  474 

ways  of  adding,  475 

with  baking  powder.  475 
Sofa  pillows.  91 
Soot  stain,  302 
Sorbets.  573 
Souffles.  538-539 

custard,  540 

frozen.  574 

fruit.  540 

plain,  538 

vegetable,  540 
Soup.  424 

brown  stock.  515 

bouillon,  515 

canning  of.  613 

classification.  514 

meats  for.  516 

stain.  303.  306  {see  white  sauces) 

use  in  meals.  432 

white  stock,  515 
Soy  beans, 

as  growth  promoter,  409,  412 

substitute  for  animal  food.  410 
Spaghetti.  442 
Spearmint.  564 
Specific  gravity.  153 

influence  of  temperature  on,  156 
Spinach.  418.  422 


Spinach,  as  source  of  growth-promot- 
ing factor.  412 

as  source  of  lime,  411 
Sponge  cakes. 

baking.  484 

mixing,  483 
Sponges  (desserts),  571 
Sponging  materials,  336 

for  stain  removal,  284 
Spoons, 

for  kitchen  use,  229 

handling  at  table,  248 

placing  on  table,  242 
Spores,  600 
Squash,  418.  422 

storage  of.  588 
Stain  removal,  282-306 

acids.  283.  287 

alkalis,  283,  288 

aniline  blue,  289 

asphalt  {see  tar),  303 
paint,  303 

berries,  cooked,  292 
fresh.  291 

blood.  288 

bluing.  289 

butter.  290 

candle  wax,  colored.  290 

chemicals,  use  of,  285 

chocolate.  290 

cocoa.  290 

coflfec,  290 

cream,  299 

creosote  oil  {see  tar),  303 

dye,  290 

egg.  291 

equipment  for.  286 

fly  paper,  sticky,  291 

fruits,  cooked,  292 
fresh.  291 

glue,  292 

grass.  292 

gravy.  298 

grease.  292 

green  foliage,  292 

gruel  {see  white  sauces),  306 

gums  {see  resinous  substances).  301 

hydrogen  peroxide,  286 

ice-cream,  294 

indelible  pencil,  294 

ink,  295 


I^I^^H 

^^^^^^1 

656 

INDEX                                       ^ 

Btmn,  tnk-rcsnoTen.  commcmal^ 

^te         gUiii,  iroJmif.  Maofc^  .VIS           ^H 

jodioc.  296 

WKt<^r,  :i41fi                                     ^H 

iron-mat*  297 

w»t«r  arilor  pAii4t4«  3130           ^^1 

Jbveliti  water,  285 

ir«Ji,  imm^n,  .tOO                     ^^H 

laimdeHog,  284 

wy  Ir  «u».  306                       ^^ 

lead  foil.  297 

«M(ew9^  (m  ttlkftlii»>,  38S            J 

lead  p«ncU.  298 

vlD«(««b^t,  frali)«2Slt              1 

Ufttbcr,  298 

Btanii.                                                 1 

lime,  elA^ked,  298 

fbodi  rich  in,  406                         ^1 

nie&t  juice,  296 

in  lfiuxjdFrin«c,  257-261               ^H 

nifxlicvties^  298 

wmi^^  for  rlc^tinsmx.  2^7          ^^H 

mildew,  29g 

Steiim  oookpT^,  BOl,  mia               ^^| 

miJk,  299 

SC«am  pT^Hun*.  601                        ^^H 

njucxis^H  299 

omaeR.  601,  602                        ^^% 

mud,  299 

Btcd  utonsiU.  235                                      1 

oiaUc  acid,  2>U* 

Stew,  utc^naila  fur  enakias*  337            1 

paioUi,  299,  300 

Stflck.  iK>up,                                               1 

parafliti,  300 

brown.  514                                            J 

p<mdl,  indelible,  294 

wUlt,  514                                     ^M 

l«ftd.  298 

Stocking  d&minK,  301                     ^^H 

perapiration,  «'KM 

Bt^mg^,                                            ^^ 

pickles  (fff  turmprir) ,  ^(H 

cArin^  foods,  617                               I 

pitch,  301 

dfi«d  fcKxiB.  591                                     ^ 

potoamum  t>f<nnKnjturui1r ,  2M5 

pfnt/'^irt  ir>  ^t.'iiTi'^    !J*Sli 

Prussian  blue.  288 

resins,  301 

road  oil  («ec  tar),  303 

running  colors,  290 

salad  dressing,  301 

scorch,  301 

shoe-dressings,  302 

silver  nitrate  {see  ink,  marking),  295 

soap.  302 

soot,  302 

soup,  303 

cream  (see  white  sauces),  306 
sponging,  284 
stove-polish,  303 
sugar  sirups,  303 
tar.  303 
tea,  303 
tobacco,  304 
tomato  vine,  304 
turmeric,  304 
ultramarine,  289 
unknown  stains,  287 
varnishes,  299 
vaseline,  305 
verdigris,  305 
vinegar  (tee  add),  287 


epact.*  in  kitchen,  112- 1  IIS 
StMVi-^  1411 J  r.Hikrra,  207-21!! 

coal,  210 

dampers,  208 

drafts.  208 

fireless  cookers,  214 

gas,  211 

height,  207.  208 

kerosene.  209 

selection  of,  207 

to  clean.  126 

to  oU,  126 

utensils  for  fuel-saving,  208 

wood  for  fuel,  208 
Straws,  bleaching,  401 

cleaning,  401 

for  hats,  401 

renovating,  400 
Strawberries,  417,  423 
Structural  features,  to  rfitwitiiaK  length 

of  rooms,  37 
Structural  surfaces,  37-45 
Succotash,  422 
Suet,  160,  520 

in  pastry,  491 
Sugar,  160.  417,  423 

cooking,  576-578 

craving  for,  431 


INDEX 


657 


Sugar,  foods  rich  in,  409 

food  value  of,  431 

in  baking,  477 

kinds  of,  576 

place  in  meals,  431 

produced  in  body,  409 

sirup  stain,  303 

stages  in  cooking,  578 

temperature  for  cooking,  578 

use  by  body,  409 

utensils  for  cooking,  678 
Supplies  for  laundry,  281 
Sweaters,  washing  of,  271 
Sweeping,  124 
Sweet  basil,  564 
Sweets, 

place  in  meals,  430 
Swiss,  dotted, 

adulteration,  308 
SyUabubs,  572 

Tapioca,  161,  423 
Tables,  kitchen,  106,  107 
Tablecloths,  ironing  of,  274 

placing  on  table,  241 
Table  manners  and  customs,  247,  248 

handling  table  equipment,  247 

serving  children,  247 

serving  guests,  247 

serving  men  and  women,  247 
Table  service,  244-246 

clearing  the  table,  246 

informal,  246 

order  of  serving,  247 

passing  food,  244,  245 

placing  food,  245 

removing  dishes,  245 

semi-formal,  245,  246 
Table  setting,  240-244 

butter-plate,  242 

chairs,  244 

covering  for  table,  240 

cream  and  sugar  servers,  244 

cups  and  saucers,  244 

forks,  242 

glass,  242 

individual  cover,  242 

jelly  dishes,  243 

knives,  242 

napkin,  243 

pickle  dishes,  243 


Table  setting,  plate,  243 

pot  for  beverage,  244 

relation  of  covers,  243 

salt-containers,  243 

silence  cloth,  241 

silver  for  service,  244 

space  for  cover,  240 

spoons,  242 

with  doilies,  241 

with  tablecloth,  241 
Table  space, 

in  kitchen,  107 
Taffeta,  324 
Tailor's  basting,  350 
Tailor's  chalk,  350 
Tailor's  tacks,  352 
Tariatan,  312 
Tarragon,  564 
Tar  stain,  303 
Tartans,  320 
Tatting, 

for  undergarments,  372 
Tea,  159,  468 

classification,  468 

clouding,  470 

composition,  408 

directions  for  brewing,  469 

grades,  468 

how  to  judge,  468,  470 

iced,  470 

punch,  470 

Russian,  470 

serving,  470 

stain,  303 

storage,  469 
Temperature, 

for  baking  yeast  bread,  500 

for  cooking  sugar,  577 

for  drying,  588 

for  fruit  storage,  584 

for  preserving  meat,  623 

for  vegetable  storage,  582 

measurement  of,  131 

table  of,  135,  136 
Terrace,  use  of,  16 
Tests  for  fabrics,  326 

burning,  328 

color,  327 

feel,  326 

strength,  326 

tearing,  328 


658 


INDEX 


Textiles.  307-329 

artificial  silk.  324 

cotton.  307 

jute,  325 

linen,  312 

ramie,  325 

silk.  321 

tests  for,  326 

weave.  329 

wool.  315 
Thermometer, 

bath.  132 

candy. 133 

clinical.  132 

mUk.  133 

outdoor.  131 

oven.  133 

room-temperature,  131 

tests  for,  134 
Thermos  bottles,  218.  224 
Time,  measurement  of.  138 
Tinware.  237 

preparation  of  new,  for  cooking,  231 
Tobacco  stain.  304 
Tomatoes,  41.S.  422 
Toniato-vinc  stain,  30-1 
Tonpuc, 

pickled  }>ecf.  f)29 

Migar-curcd.  ('»J4 
Toothpicks  for  kitchen  use.  230 
Toques.  .'ilM 
Torchon  lace.  .'^72 
Towels. 

iroiiiii^^  of.  27.J 

kitchen.  12:j 
TraciriK  wheel,  .'US 
Travel,  path  ..f.   Hi 
Tnnch.  for  ve^retable  storage.  oSO 
Trim  of  walls,  liT,  41,  42 
TrimmiiiL'  of  hats,  .'i'JS.  404 

Im.ws.  4(I<; 

buckh's  404 

folds  10."> 

lace  straw.  405 

ribb«.n-.   10.'> 
Trimminu'>  for  undfTnarnw^nts.  .'^72 

bias  b.ands,  bindinirs.  facings,  372 

braid.  ;i72 

embroideries,  1^72 

hand  enihroidery,  ',i7'.i 

laces,  .'^72 


Trimmings,    machine    hemftitdunc 

373 
tatting,  372 
Tiout,  421 

Tuberculosis,  diet  in,  463 
Tubs,  laundry.  279 
TuUe.  324 

Tumbler,  placing  on  table,  242 
Turbans,  394,  395 
Turkey,  421 
Turmeric  stain,  304 
Turnips.  418,  422 
Turpentine,  in  laundering,  255.  256. 

259.265 
Tweed,  320 
Typhoid  fever,  diet  in,  463 

Undergarments. 

construction  of,  373 

fastenings  for,  379 

finishes  for.  376,  377 

making  of.  369-381 

materials  for,  371 

plackets  and  closings,  379 

seams  for.  373 

selection  of,  371 

top  finishes  for.  375 

trinmiings,  371.  372 

uses  of  seams  on.  373 
Ultramarine  stain,  289 
rpholstery.  So 
Utensils. 

advantages    and    disiidvantag^'^   -f 
materials.  232 -'239 

arrangement,  231 

brushes,  22*J 

care  of.  232 

double  l>oilers,  229 

rgg-lx-aters,  228 

fiber.  2;iO 

for  baking.  22.').  47s.  479 

for  candy-making.  22S 

for  cooking  meats,  220 

for  frying.  227 

for  fuel-s^iving.  208 

for  jelly-making.  228 

for  laundering.  281 

for  s.auteing.  227 

for  stewing.  227 

for  sugar  c(K)king.  578 

for  various  cooking  process*^.  22»S 


INDEX 


659 


Utexurils,  kitchen.  225-239 
knives,  228 
paper,  230 

preparation  of  new,  231 
protection  of  metals,  232 
selection,  225 
skewers,  230 
spoons,  229 
toothpicks,  230 

Valances,  61.  66,  69,  72 

to  reduce  height  of  room,  36 
Valenciennes  lace,  372 
Value,  in  relation  to  color,  45,  47 
Vanilla,  161 
Vaseline  stain,  305 
Vases,  selection  of,  90 
Veal,  420,  421 

selection  of,  610,  616 
Vegetables,  543-549 

as  regulating  food,  411 

as  source  of  iron,  411 

as  source  of  protein.  410 

blanching,  545 

boiling,  546 

canned.  449 

canning  by  cold-pack.  612.  614,  616 

care,  543 

classification.  543 

cooking,  544 

drying,  588-592 

in  diet  of  nursing  mother,  434 

in  season,  550,  551 

losses  in  cooking,  545 

mild-juiced,  544 

one-hundred-calorie  portions  of,  418 

place  in  meals,  429 

rich  in  starch,  408 

salt  in  cooking,  544 

salting,  592-597 

soda  in  cooking,  545 

steaming,  546 

strong-juiced,  544 

storage  of.  584-586 

utensils  for  stewing,  227 
Vegetable  oils,  in  pastry,  491 
Vegetable  oysters,  422 
Veils,  renovation,  403 
Velour,  321 
Velvet,  324 

renovation,  402 


Velveteen,  312,  324 

Ventilation, 

cellar,  for  fruit  storage,  583 

in  relation  to  storage  of  vegetables, 

584 
system,  193 

Verdigris  stain,  305 

Vessels,  unglazed  earthen  for  keeping 
foods  cool.  223 

Vicufia,  321 

Vinegar  stain,  {see  acid),  287 

Vista, 

to  increase  length  of  rooms,  35 
value  in  house  plans,  11,  16 

Vitamines,  412 

needs  of  nursing  mother,  435 

Voile,  321 

Wainscots,  40,  41 

to  reduce  height  of  rooms,  35 
Waist-line  finish,  366 
Waists, 

amount  of  material  for,  34 

basting,  354 

fitting,  361 

measurements,  338 

silk,  ironing  of,  273 

suitable  materials  for,  369 
Wall  coverings,  64,  65 
Wall  paper, 

borders  in,  55 

selection  of,  54,  55 

striped,  to  increase  height  of  rooms, 
35 
Walls, 

as  structural  surfaces,  37 

bedroom,  123 

cellar,  121 

kitchen,  119 

plaster,  39,  40 
Wall  spaces,  relation  to  furnishing.  37 
Walnuts.  160.  419,  424 

stain,  black,  305 
Washing-soda, 

for  softening  water,  251 

for  toilet,  125 

in  laundering,  255 
Washroom,  13,  110 
Washing,  262-273 

boiling,  265 

blankets,  270 


^EZ^^^^^^^V 

mo                                     INDEX                                      ^1 

B        WBahiiie.  billing.  265 

Weightmg.  ailk,  322                      ^^ 

K            colons  «cM>ds.  2fi2.  207-2ft« 

Weights,  438                                       ^H 

^k          dHinpcning,  207«  274 

Weighu  and  memmavm^                 ^^| 

^1          day  for,  201 

uf  foods^  ISl^ltiB                        ^H 

^1           directions  for.  :iG4-267 

tabli^A  of.  106-174                         ^H 

^1          doing.  266 

Wheat,  416,  424                                  ^H 

H           aalI^Jel^t,  263,  209 

cracked,  in  firrleas  ooolus;  211^^1 

^H           froesing,  267 

for  flour.  4D5                                  ^^H 

^B          handkcfrehiefs  um^  for  ctj!d«,  262 

miUtng  of,  496                                 ^H 

^H           han^Tif^.  266 

starrh  for  Inuiidericig.  257          ^^M 

^^^^  knitted  garmenti},  271 

Wheat  6our.  416                               ^H 

^^^H  iMes.  272 

Wheatlcsd  yeast  bmds,  501          ^H 

^^^V  li^oe  curtaiDfl,  272 

Whey,  423,  427                                   ^H 

^          tnarhin^,  277 

in  baking.  474                                      V 

H^           powdors.  255 

Whipcord.  321                                          M 

^m          pmimmliou  of  clotlu'«  for,  262 

Whipi]  (dej»iTU).  572                        ^^M 

■           ribhoti^,  272 

White  bnsid.  501.  5l>3                      ^H 

^^^  rinaiiig.  265 

\\lijte  floiir.  4tl6                                 ^H 

^^m  Bilk,  271 

^liittMiaiirc  flt'iin.  306                      ^^H 

^^K  0CMUdtJg.  262 

Whole  whrnt,  159                                ^H 

^^^■■■tftrchinfc,  266 

Wholt^wheat  flour.  406                     ^H 

^^H  BWMUTa.  271 

Windowi9.                                            ^^H 

^^^B  teinp4?mture  of  water.  263 

anNi,  37                                       ^M 

^^^  mrbito  eoi^dn.  262 

area  of.  in  kitchen*  104               ^^H 

^^^    woaieoB.  269-270 

arrangement  of,  3.  18.  23            ^^H 

■        WaBte-boakete.  91 

aa  part  of  wall.  37                        ^^H 

■        Water.  159 

cleaning  of,  127                             ^^| 

H             {>rjiling  point  of,  13d 

function  of.  in  doeiicn,  22             ^^H 

H            for  Laundering.  250-253 

in  roomA  undeT  sloping  roof,  21  ^^M 

■           bard.  250 

location  in  kitchen,  104                ^^H 

H           need  of  body  for,  431 

painting  of,  22                               ^^| 

H           organic  matter,  removal  of.  253 

relation  to  fumishmg.  37             ^^H 

■           «*r>ft.  250 

t>Ted  in  kitchen,  104                   ^^1 

■            softening  of,  261-253 

Wood.                                                 ^^1 

■             atmn,  .'^00 

compaiattvc  heat  value,  208      ^^H 

■        VVatc?r-et4or  paint,  etain.  <ilX> 

fiuishi>»  for,  42                                ^^H 

H        Water-glasi*.      for     prcetTving     (^gga. 

for  floors,  44                                   ^^^| 

■                581 

for  furniture,  83,  83,  »v^              ^^1 

■        Watermelon,  423 

for  kitchen  floors,  1 1  ^                    ^H 

■        Water-aeal  canneps,  601,  HiH 

for  trim,  41                                       ^^M 

H        Water-soluble  growth-promoting  auh- 

painted  for  harmony,  A^             ^^H 

H                stance,  412 

selection  for  fuel,  208                     ^^H 

■       Wax, 

ut/>n8il»,  2.^H                                      ^^1 

H           for  hard  wrK)ds,  42 

wt^ight  of  cord,  209                      ^^| 

■          for  laundering.  258 

Woodroom,  location  of.  IS              ^^H 

■          fltoin.  pamfBn,  300 

Wood-veiiPer  carpet,  7H                  ^^H 

■      Wazmg  of  fli>or.  128 

Woodwork.  41,  119.  122                  ^H 

■      Weave.  328 

^H 

■      Weighing  scale.  120 

aduJt«-rmtioo,  317                           ^H 

■      Weighting. 

fiUT,  315                                          ^H 

■          cotton,  308 

matvhahi,  319                               ^^H 

INDEX 


661 


Wool,  fthoddy,  318 

iLsts  for,  326,  328 
Woolens,  3  IS 

wajthing  of,  269-271 
Working  area  in  houBC  ptaiiB,  II.  13, 

10 
Working  distances,  flhorietutig  of,  in 

house  pJttJW,  1 1 
Worsteds,  31H 

iinfintshed,  321 

finished,  321 
Wrinjier,  280 


Yeaat,  497 

bread  {see  bread) 

compressed.  497 

diy,  497 

funetiou  in  bread-makinir,  497 

in  relation  to  spoil atgC'f  579 

liquid.  497 
Yellow  wash,  for  smoked  meats,  633 

Zibdine,  321 

Ztnc.  for  kitchen  use,  239 

Zweibii€h«  424 


Friuted  la  tha  United  SHrnVm  of  Am«rie« 


I 


T 


HE  following  pages  contain  advertise mems  of  a  few 
of  the  Macmillan  books  on  kindred  subjects. 


Two  Textbooks  of  the  House- 
hold Arts 

BY  HELEN  EINXE,  Professor,  and  ANNA  M.  COOLEY, 

AspKtate  Professor  of  Household  Arts  Education ^  Teachers  CoUegt^ 
Columbia  University 

Cloikt  i2mo,  HI.  $1.10 

Foods  and  Household  Management 

Treats  specifically  of  foods,  their  prtduction,  sanitation,  cost,  nu- 
triti\'c  value,  preparation,  and  sening,  these  topics  being  closely  in- 
terwoven with  the  practical  aspects  oi  household  management;  and 
they  are  followed  by  a  study  of  the  household  budget  and  accounts, 
methods  of  buying,  housewifen',  and  laundering.  It  includes  about 
1 60  carefully  selected  and  tested  recipes,  together  with  a  large  num- 
ber of  cooking  exercises  of  a  more  experimental  nature  designed  to 
ievelop  initiative  and  resourcefulness. 

The  book  is  new,  practical,  and  economical.  It  is  well  iKustratcd 
and  attractively  bound. 


Shelter  and  Clothing 


This  book  takes  up  fully,  but  with  careful  balaiw^,  every  phase  of 
home-making:  location,  structure,  plan*  sanitation,  heatiDg,  lighting, 
decorating,  and  furnishing.  The  second  part  is  devoted  to  textilci* 
sewingf  [and  dressmaking.  Sewing,  drafting,  designing,  fitting*  and 
cutting  are  treated  in  considerable  detail  as  is  also  the  making  of  the 
personal  budget  for  clothing. 

The  authors  hold  that  harmony  will  be  the  keynote  of  the  home  in 
proportion  as  the  makers  of  the  home  regard  the  plan,  the  sanitation^ 
the  decoration  of  the  house  itself,  and  as  they  exercise  economy  and 
wisdom  in  the  provision  of  clothing. 


THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

PubUsben        64HS6  Fifth  Avenue        New  York 


Some  Aspects  of  Food  Elconomy 

By  MARY  S.  ROSE 
Everyday  Foods  in  War  Time 

This  little  book  was  written  in  response  to  a  n^ 
quest  for  *'a  war  message  about  food/'     It  gives  ft^ 
simple  explanation  of  the  part  which  some  of  oii 
common  foods  play  in  our  diet,  and  points  out  how^ 
the  necessary  saving  of  fat,  fuel,  sugar,  and  meat  can 
be  made  without  a  loss  of  health  or  strength. 

There  are  chapters  on  the  Milk  Pitcher  in  the 
Home;  Cereals  We  Ought  to  Eat;  Meats  We  Ought ^ 
to  Save;  The  Potato  and  Its  Substitutes;  Are  Fruits 
and  Vegetables  Luxuries?  Sugar  and  Spice  and 
Everj^hing  Nice;  On  Being  Economical  and  Pa- 
triotic at  the  Same  Time.    . 

Feedings  the  FamOy  ^"^ 

This  is  a  clear  concise  account  in  simple  everyday 
terms  of  the  ways  in  which  modem  knowledge  of  the 
science  of  nutrition  may  be  applied  in  ordinar>'  life. 
The  food  needs  of  the  members  of  the  t>pical  family 
group — men,  women,  infants,  children  of  variot 
ages — are  discussed  in  separate  chapters,  and  man) 
illustrations  in  the  form  of  food  plans  and  dietaries^ 
are  included.  The  problems  of  the  housewife  in 
tr>ing  to  reconcile  the  needs  of  different  ages  and 
tastes  at  the  same  table  are  also  taken  up,  as  are  the^ 
cost  of  food  and  the  construction  of  menus.  A 
chapter  deals  with  feeding  the  sick. 

THE   MACMILLAN   COMPANY 

PublMiers         64-66  Fifth  Aireoue         New  Yock 


The  Food  Problem 

By  VERNON  KELLOGG  and  ALONZO  E.  TAYLOR 

"  Food  is  always  more  or  less  of  a  problem  in  every  phase  of  its  production, 
handling,  and  consumption.  It  is  a  problem  with  every  farmer,  every  trans- 
porter and  seller,  every  householder.  It  is  a  problem  with  every  town,  state, 
and  nation.  And  now  very  conspicuously,  it  is  a  problem  with  three  great 
groups ;  namely,  the  Allies,  the  Central  Empires  and  the  Neutrals ;  in  a  word, 
it  is  a  great  international  problem." 

These  sentences  from  the  introduction  indicate  the  scope  of  "The  Food 
Problem  "  by  Vernon  Kellogg  and  Alonzo  E.  Taylor. 

Both  authors  are  members  of  the  United  States  Food  Administration.  Dr. 
Kellogg  is  also  connected  with  the  Commission  for  relief  in  Belgium  and  pro- 
fessor in  Stanford  University.  Mr.  Taylor  is  a  member  of  the  Exports  Admin- 
istrative Board  and  professor  in  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  The  preface 
is  by  Herbert  Hoover,  United  States  Food  Administrator  and  Chairman  for  the 
Commission  of  Relief  in  Belgium. 

The  food  problem  of  to-day  of  our  nation,  therefore,  has  as  its  most  con- 
spicuous phase  an  international  character.  Some  of  the  questions  which  the 
book  considers  are : 

What  is  the  problem  in  detail  ? 

What  are  the  general  conditions  of  its  solution  ? 

What  are  the  immediate  problems  and  particulars  which  concern  us,  and 
are  within  our  power  to  affect  ? 

And  finally,  what  are  we  actually  doing  to  meet  our  problem  ? 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 
Introduction :  The  International  Problem. 
/^ari  /.     TA€  Problem  and  the  Solution. 

Chapter  I.    The  Food  Situation  of  the  Western  Allies  and  the  United  States. 
II.     Food  Administration. 

III.  How  England,  France,  and  Italy  Are  Controlling  and  Saving  Food. 

IV.  Food  Control  in  Germany  and  Its  Lessons. 
Part  II.     The  Technology  of  Food  Use. 

V.    The  Physiology  of  Nutrition. 
VI.    The  Sociology  of  Nutrition. 
VI I .    The  Sociology  of  Nutrition  f  Continued) . 
VIII.    Grain  and  Alcohol. 
Conclusion :  Patriotism  and  Food. 


THE   MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

Pnblidien  64-66  ntth  ATora*  Hew  Tork 


Interior  Decoration  for  the  Small  Home 

By  amy  L.  ROLFE,  U,A. 

Instead  of  describing  in  great  detail  the  very  expensive 
furniture  and  rugs  which  can  be  purchased  only  by  the 
few,  the  autlior  dwells  rather  upon  the  general  priodplcs 
which  apply  in  all  cases  and  treats  specifically  of  such 
furnishings  as  are  suitable  in  the  homes  of  people  of  mod- 
erate means.  Among  the  topics  included  are  walls  and 
ceilings,  windows,  floors,  rugs  and  carpets,  furniture,  fire- 
places^ lamps,  and  lighting  fixtures.  A  chapter  on  cabinet 
woods  is  a  special  feature.  The  material  is  organized  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  make  it  useful  both  as  a  text-book  and 
as  a  practical  guide  in  the  furnishing  of  a  home.  The  book 
is  fully  illustrated  and  shows  in  an  unusually  practical 
manner  how  the  rules  of  art  may  be  applied  in  the  decora* 
tion  and  furnishing  of  ail  homes. 


THE   MACMILLAN   COMPANY 

Publishers         64-66  Fifth  Avenue         New  Yock 


Domestic  Architecture 

By  LAWRENCE  E.  ROBINSON 

Assistant  Professor  of  Architecture  in  Oregon  Agricultural  College 

Illustrated^  $i.jo 

A  clear,  concise,  and  practical  treatment  of  the  general 
subject  of  the  house,  including  the  history  of  domestic 
architecture  and  the  development  of  the  typical  styles 
found  in  the  United  States,  building  sites,  exterior  and 
interior  house  design,  character  and  mouldings,  building 
materials,  finish  materials,  house  construction  and  interior 
treatment,  heating,  lighting,  plumbing,  and  other  equip- 
ment, cost  of  dwellings,  and  the  relations  of  owner,  archi- 
tect, and  contractor.  The  work  is  illustrated  by  numerous 
plans  and  includes  directions  for  making  drawings,  and  a 
series  of  sketch  problems  and  problems  in  design.  No 
technical  preparation  is  assumed.  While  it  is  especially 
adapted  for  use  as  a  text  in  courses  on  The  House,  it  will 
be  found  both  interesting  and  practical  for  all  those  who 
are  privileged  to  plan  or  remodel  the  houses  in  which 
they  live. 


THE   MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

PttbUibMn  64-66  Fifth  Atmiim  H«w  Toik 


STANFORD  UNIVERSITY  LIBRARIES 

CECIL  H.  GREEN  LIBRARY 

STANFORD,  CALIFORNIA  94305-6004 

(415)  723-1493 

Cc 

All  books  moy^^fe  recalled  after  7  days 

^     ^'DATE  DUE 


