THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


' 


n 


Fr« 


MRS.   HARRIET   ALMARIA    KAKER    SUDDOTH. 


THE 

JMI 

OR 

Housekeeper's  Encyclopedia, 

CONTAINING  MORE   THAN  22.OOO  VALUABLE    AND    PRACTICAL 
RECIPES,  CONTRIBUTED  BY  HOUSEKEEPERS  FROM  EVERY 
PART     OF    THE    CIVILIZED    WORLD,   ALL   PRACTI- 
CAL AND  TESTED;  WITH  MANY  THOU- 
SANDS  BY  THE   AUTHORESS. 

FOR  THE  SPECIAL  USE  OF  FAMILIES  AND  NURSES, 

IN  CITY  AND  COUNTRY;   RESTAURANTS, 

BOARDING  HOUSES  AND  HOTELS. 

BY 

MRS.  HARRIET  ALMARIA  BAKER  SUDDOTH. 

INTRODUCTION  BY  REV.   WM.  A.  SCOTT,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  PRESIDENT  AND  FOUNDER 

OF  THE  SAN  FRANCISCO  THEOLOGICAL  SCHOOL,    AND    ALSO    FOUNDER 

OF    THE    SAN    FRANCISCO    COLLEGIATE    UNIVERSITY,    AND 

SAN    FRANCISCO    MEDICAL    COI  LEGE,    CAL. 


fllust'd  with  Eight  Colored  Plates  and  Portrait  of  the  Authoress. 


SAN    FRANCISCO,    CAL.  : 

A.  L.  BANCROFT  &  CO., 

No.  721   Market  Stieet, 
I883. 


Copyright,  1883,  by  MRS.  H.  A.  B.  SUDDOTH. 
rights  reserved.-^* 


THE  AMERICAN  PICTORIAL  HOME  BOOK, 

OR 

HOUSEKEEPER'S  ENCYCLOPEDIA, 

Is  the  result  of  many  years  of  earnest  effort  and  practical  study. 
It  is  a  work  that  may  be  studied  with  pleasure  and  profit  during 
the  hours  of  ease  and  leisure,  and  in  cases  of  emergency  it  can  be 
referred  to  as  a  judicious  friend  and  adviser  in  a  remedial  point 
of  view. 

It  is  unsurpassed  as  a  valuable  Reference  Book  for  young 
housekeepers,  and  a  prompt  and  ready  guide  in  all  household 
matters ;  in  caring  for  the  Sick  and  directing  Servants ;  in  the 
Nursery,  Laundry,  Dairy,  Poultry  and  Farm  Yards,  the  Garden, 
Etiquette,  etc.  Its  recipes  and  suggestions  are  applicable  to  all 
climates  and  all  conditions  of  life. 


INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS. 


INTRODUCTORY  ESSAY 9 

PREFACE 14 

A  CHRISTMAS  DINNER 38 

BATTER  CAKES 214 

BEERS,  ALE  AND  CIDER 429 

BEES, 500 

BISCUITS  AND  ROLLS 206 

BREAD  MAKING 199 

BREAKFAST,  LUNCH  AND  TEA 343 

BOILING 83 

BROILING 84 

CANARY  BIRDS 502 

CANDIKS 332 

CAN  VEGETABLES,  ETC 336 

CARVING 120 

CARVING  FISH,  DIRECTIONS  FOR 57 

CARVING  FOWLS,  DIRECTIONS  FOR 122 

CARVING  JOINTS,  DIRECTIONS  FOR 121 

CHOWDERS : 70 

COFFEE 341 

COMFORTABLE  COOKING 36 

CONFECTIONS  AND  CONSERVES  FOR  THE  SICK 375 

COOKING  FOR  THE  NEEDY  AND  INVALIDS 363 

CORNS,  BUNIONS  AND  WARTS 535 

CORDIALS,  BRANDIES,  ETC 437 

CRABS 75 

CREAMS 328 

CROQUETS 116 

CURRIES 338 

CUSTARDS 282 

DAIRY,  THE 458 

DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT 90 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  CARVING  JOINTS 121 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  CARVING  FOWLS  AND  GAME 122 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  CARVING  FISH 57 

DISHES  MADE  FROM  A  CHRISTMAS  DINNER 40 

DISHES  OK  ROYALTY 518 

DRIED  FRUITS 475 

5 


6  INDEX  OK  SUBJECTS. 

DUCHESS  OF  SUNDERLAND  RECIPES 377 

DUMPLINGS 230 

EELS 70 

FEATHERS 536 

FIGS,  How  CULTIVATED 475 

FLOWNS  OR  FLOATS 361 

FORCEMEATS  OR  STUFFING 504 

FOREIGN  DISHES 385 

FOWLS 133 

FRICASSES 152 

FROGS 70 

FRUIT  ICES  AND  SYRUP 442 

FRUITS 475 

FRYING 82 

GAME,  EDIBLE  BIR'DS,  ETC 141 

GAME  OF  CROQUET 521 

GARDENING 492 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS  ON  EGGS 124 

GENERAL  REMARKS  ON  PICKLES 490 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS  ON  FISHES 55 

GLYCERINE 534 

GOOD  WORDS 21 

GRAVIF.S 77 

HASHES 113 

HEALTH  NOTES  AND  MAXIMS "551 

HINTS  FOR  WIVES 32 

HOGS  AND  THEIR  DISEASES 471 

HONEY 329 

HORSES  AND  THEIR  DISEASES 467 

How  FIGS  ARE  CULTIVATED 475 

How  TO  COOK  FISH 60 

How  TO  PREPARE  CASKS,  ETC 433 

ICING  AND  FROSTING 280 

ICE,  FREEZERS,  ETC 444 

JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES 285 

LADIES'  TOILET 537 

LAUNDRY  THE 579 

LOBSTERS 76 

LOCATION  OF  A  HOUSE 27 

MEAT,  DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK 90 

MINCED  MEATS 294 

MUFFINS 212 

NEEDY  AND  INVALIDS,  COOKING  FOR 363 

OLD  BUT  VALUABLE  STYLE  OF  COOKING 516 


INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS.  7 

OMELETS 126 

OUR  PARLORS  AND  OUR  CHILDREN 24 

OAT  MEAL  AND  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES 225 

OYSTERS 73 

PANCAKES 232 

PASTRY  FOR  PIES 296 

PATTIES 317 

PICKLES 188 

PIES,  MEAT  AND  SAVORY 299 

PORK  AND  BACON 105 

POULTRY 507 

PUDDINGS,  MEAT  AND  SAVORY 235 

PUFFS  AND  TARTS 3l8 

RATS  AND  MICE 5O1 

REMARKS  ON  DINNER  PARTIES 37 

REFRESHING  DRINKS 4^6 

ROASTING , 86 

ROLLS 288 

SALADS 182 

SANDWICHES 131 

SAUCES  AND  CATSUPS 185 

SAUSAGES 119 

SCALLOPS  OR  Co i  LOPS 117 

SHEEP  AND  THH.IR,  DISEASES 47° 

SIMPLICITY  OF  THE  PRIMITIVE  AGES 22 

SOUPS  AND  BROTHS , 43 

SPICES 33s 

STRWING 88 

SWRKT  CAKES , 275 

SWKET  BREADS , 112 

SWEET  AND  DELICATE  DISHES , 322 

SWEET  PUDDINGS 240 

SWEET  SAUCES 357 

TEA — CHOCOLATE 341 

THE  BEAUTY  OF  A  WELL-ORDERED  HOME 23 

THE  FARM 448 

THE  HUSBAND 32 

THE  HAIR 523 

THE  MISTRESS 33 

THE  NURSERY 575 

THE  VINEYARD 484 

TREES  AND  SHRUDS 478 

TURTLES 80 

VARIOUS  REMARKS  ON  FISH 58 


8  INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS. 

VEGETABLES 156 

VINEGARS 485 

WAFERS 212 

WAFFLES 209 

WATER 513 

WINES 419 

YEAST 232 


INTRODUCTORY  ESSAY. 


"  OF  making  many  books,"  says  Solomon,  "  there  is  no  end." 
But  this  was  said  long  ago.  What  the  wise  king  would  say  in  such 
a  publishing  age  as  this,  with  all  its  societies  and  newspaper  men,  is 
beyond  our  comprehension.  Have  we  too  many  books  ?  Yes,  the 
number  of  worthless,  bad  books  is  legion.  But  how  is  it  to  be 
helped  ?  The  demand  calls  for  the  supply  and  the  supply  increases 
the  demand.  The  monster  grows  upon  what  feeds  it.  The  age  of 
sumptuary  laws  and  of  fetters  for  the  press  has  passed  and  is  never 
to  return.  A  fair  field  and  a  free  fight  is  all  we  can  ask,  nor  do  we 
.fear.  Light  puts  darkness  to  flight;  Truth  must  prevail  at  last.  It 
is  not  to  be  supposed  that  Solomon  meant  there  should  be  an  end  to 
book  making.  The  writer  of  this  introductory  notice  is  constrained 
at  least  to  recommend  another  book.  Not  a  volume  upon  war  or 
politics,  but  "  THE  HOUSEKEEPER'S  ENCYCLOPEDIA,"  of  twenty  thou- 
sand practical  receipts.  This  work  has  been  carefully  prepared  by  a 
Christian  lady  who  has  had  ample  experience.  She  is  practically 
acquainted  with  good  housekeeping,  and  labored  for  a  number  of 
years  as  a  missionary  in  a  distant  land.  Among  all  the  works  that 
have  fallen  under  our  observation,  Mrs.  Suddoth's  seems  to  us  de- 
cidedly the  best.  It  is  practical,  easily  understood  and  calculated  to 
do  much  good.  The  style  is  not  ambitious,  there  is  no  attempt  to 
walk  on  stilts,  nor  to  conceal  thought,  or  the  want  of  it,  by  fine  writ- 
ing. The  aim  throughout  is  to  do  good,  such  good  as  a  mature,  in- 
telligent and  pious  lady  would  desire  to  do.  The  volume  treats  of 
"  The  beauties  of  a  well-ordered  home,  its  influence. — The  family 
relation. — The  Christian  mother's  influence. — The  Bible,  the  fireside 
pleasure. — Comforts  of  home. — Table  conversation. — The  mother 
and  the  wife,  her  sphere,  duty  to  servants,  neighbors  and  church. — 
Her  influence  not  reckoned  in  time. — Her  compensation  in  eter- 
nity." 

The  writer  gives  this  introductory  notice  as  a  labor  of  love,  be- 
cause of  his  esteem  for  the  Christian  character  of  the  author,  and  be- 
cause of  the  noble  purpose  for  which  the  volume  is  offered  to  the 
public,  hoping  that  it  will  find  a  place  in  thousands  of  families,  es- 
pecially on  this  side  of  oar  continent,  in  the  homes  of  our  mountains 
and  valleys,  where  everything  is  yet  in  a  fonning  state,  and  where 
the  foundations  of  future  greatness  should  be  wisely  laid  and  firmly 


10  INTRODUCTORY   ESSAY. 

established  in  good  family  government  and  on  sound  principles,  so 
that  we  may  hope  for  the  virtue  and  high  culture  of  the  generations 
to  come. 

The  subject  treated  of  is  indeed  an  old  one,  but  never  more  im- 
portant than  in  our  day.  It  is  an  old  but  still  a  sweet  saying  that 
awakens  a  response  in  many  hearts,  "  There  is  no  place  like  home." 
However  far  our  prodigal  sons  may  wander,  their  hearts  "  untrav- 
elled  "'  always  turn  to  the  home  of  the  days  of  childhood's  inno- 
cence with  a  warmth  that  nothing  can  altogether  chill.  There  they 
feel  sure  of  a  welcome  if  all  the  world  frowns  upon  them.  They  will 
not  believe  that  the  door  of  the  home  of  their  early  childhood's  holy 
hours  can  ever  be  shut  against  them.  It  is  simply  impossible  to 
overstate  the  influence  of  a  well-regulated  home,  nor  is  it  easy  to 
overestimate  the  influence  of  order,  neatness  and  good  cooking  in 
making  a  happy  home.  Not  a  few  of  the  ills  that  afflict  both  the 
body  and  the  mind  of  mankind,  and  I  must  say  also  not  a  few  of  the 
sins  and  crimes  of  man,  are  fairly  to  be  attributed  to  a  disorderly,  un- 
tidy home — to  bad  cooking  and  slovenly  housekeeping.  The  good 
God  does  indeed  give  us  plenty  of  food,  but  alas !  many  of  our  cooks 
are  sent  by  the  devil.  It  is  marvellous  that  so  simple  an  art  as  that 
of  really  good  cooking  and  clean  housekeeping  is  so  little  under- 
stood and  practiced  among  us.  We  live  by  bread,  but  most  usu- 
ally upon  bread  not  half  baked — just  such  as  the  prophet  called 
Ephraim's  cake — a  cake  not  turned,  burnt  on  one  side  and  raw  on 
the  other,  and  the  end  thereof  is  moroseness — dyspepsia.  If  I  were 
a  Lycurgus  I  should  not  be  content  with  compulsory  education  in 
letters,  but  should  require  our  girls  to  take  lessons  in  cooking  and 
housekeeping  before  they  graduate  from  our  schools  to  become 
wives  and  mothers. 

The  world-famed  Humboldt  said,  "  The  finest  fruit  earth  holds 
up  to  its  Maker  is  a  finished  man."  The  great  Napoleon  once  said, 
"  What  France  most  needs  is  mothers."  Every  state  wants  real, 
true,  honest,  honorable,  finished  men,  and  the  first  requisite  for  such 
men  is  healthy,  well-finished  wives — intelligent  Christian  mothers. 
France  did  need  and  does  now  need  the  right  sort  of  mothers,  but  it 
is  equally  true  of  every  other  nation,  and  most  of  all  is  it  true  of  Re- 
publican America,  whose  sovereign  is  the  people  themselves,  and 
in  our  new  states  most  of  all,  where  society  is  in  a  forming  condi- 
tion, and  where  the  foundation-stone  of  the  Church  and  State  is  the 
family.  It  is  the  Divine  plan  that  society  should  grow  out  of  the 
family.  Every  age  and  country  is  in  proof  that  the  home  fireside  is 
the  greatest  educational  institution  on  earth.  Its  influence,  more 
than  any  other,  gives  shape  and  coloring  to  the  earthly  and  eternal 
destinies  of  mankind.  In  the  nursery  "  the  black  spot "  is  to  be 
wrung  out  of  the  human  heart.  At  the  family  altar,  hard  by  the 


INTRODUCTORY  ESSAY.  It 

hearthstone,  the  evil  one  is  to  be  burned  and  cast  out     "  They  that 
rock  the  cradle  rule  the  world." 

The  mind  of  human  beings  at  birth  is  not  a  blank  sheet  of  pa- 
per. Somehow  or  other  there  is  something  on  it  as  if  written  with 
invisible  ink,  that  the  least  exposure  to  the  heat  of  external  life  is 
sure  to  develop.  This  something  may  be  called  by  the  ugly  name 
of  original  sin,  or  any  other  name  you  please.  You  may  account  for 
it  by  creationism,  or  traducianism,  or  any  other  theory,  but  still  it  is 
there.  And  hence,  "  'Tis  education  makes  the  man."  For  what- 
ever may  be  said  of  the  hereditary  principle,  it  is  founded  on  fact 
and  nature.  Every  other  part  and  faculty  of  man,  even  if  the 
mind  is  a  blank  paper  at  our  birth,  is  stamped  with  hereditary  ten- 
dencies and  peculiarities  ;  and  these  tendencies  are  transmitted  ca- 
pabilities for  good  and  for  evil.  Is  the  offspring  of  a  good  horse  or 
dog  likely  to  be  good  ?  Why  is  it  not  equally  true  of  the  child  of  a 
good  man,  and  still  more  of  a  good  woman  ?  And  if  the  parents  are 
distinguished  for  any  special  ability,  there  is  a  strong  probability  that 
their  children  will  inherit  something  of  it,  or  at  least  that  it  will  be 
called  out  by  their  education,  if  they  receive  one  worthy  of  the  chil- 
dren of  such  parents.  Folly  and  crime  are  sure,  however,  to  weaken 
the  powers  of  any  race  or  nation,  or  of  any  part  of  it.  This  illustra- 
tion is  beautifully  and  truly  applied  somewhere  in  Kingsley's  "  An- 
cient Regime." 

The  first  paths  trodden  by  the  child  may  be  scratched  and 
crooked,  or  plain  and  smooth,  but  certainly  in  most  cases  his  aged 
steps  will  be  taken  in  seeking  a  return  to  them.  An  eccentric  cler- 
gyman and  wit  of  England,  who  lived  about  one  hundred  years  ago, 
that  I  would  rather  not  name  lest  some  one  should  go  to  reading  his 
works  and  get  from  them  more  poison  than  honey,  says  in  his  own 
way,  "  I  dare  say,  good  folks,  you  have  all  heard  of  animal  spirits, 
as  how  they  are  transfused  from  father  to  son.  Now  this  is  not  so 
inconsiderable  a  thing  as  many  of  you  may  think  it.  Take  my  word 
for  it,  that  nine  parts  in  ten  of  a  man's  sense  or  of  his  nonsense,  his 
successes  and  miscarriages  in  this  world,  depend  upon  the  motions 
and  activity,  and  the  different  tracks  and  trains  you  put  them  into ; 
so  that  when  they  are  once  set  agoing,  whether  right  or  wrong,  'tis 
not  a  half-penny  matter — away  they  go  cluttering  like  hey-go  mad  ; 
and  by  treading  the  same  steps  over  and  over  again,  they  presently 
make  a  road  of  it  as  plain  and  as  smooth  as  a  garden  walk,  which, 
when  they  are  once  used  to,  the  devil  himself,  if  he  should  wish 
sometimes  to  do  it,  shall  not  be  able  to  drive  them  off  it." 

Men  may  complain  (for  the  most  part  unjustly}  as  much  as  they 
judge  comports  with  their  dignity,  about  mothers-in-law  and  the  ex- 
pense and  trouble  of  housekeeping,  as  if  they  knew  anything  about 
it,  but  it  is  the  will  of  heaven  that  the  society  of  women  is  a  necessity 


12  INTRODUCTORY  ESSAY. 

of  national  as  well  as  of  personal  existence,  both  physically  and  mor- 
ally. It 's  an  ancient  Hebrew  proverb  that  "  God  always  blesses  a 
family  or  household  through  its  women."  If  man  fell  from  his  high 
estate  by  a  woman,  it  is  through  the  same  woman  he  is  raised  to  a 
higher  one.  If  a  man  discovered  America,  it  was  a  woman  that  in- 
spired him  and  equipped  the  voyage.  No  matter  who  it  is  that  ex- 
ecutes a  great  purpose,  he  was  born,  nursed  and  trained  by  a  wo- 
man. The  family  is  an  institution  founded  by  the  Creator,  and  by 
Him  constituted  the  greatest  university  on  earth  for  molding  human 
destinies.  Nor  can  the  divine  laws  be  improved.  It  is  His  will  that 
the  wedded  lamp  be  lighted  at  his  altar  and  burn  brightly  and  cheer- 
fully, and  that  children  should  come  and  grow  up  under  its  benign 
beams — that  our  sons  may  be  trees  of  righteousness,  well  grown  in 
their  youth,  and  our  daughters  be  as  corner-stones  polished  after  the 
similitude  of  a  palace.  He  is  then  an  enemy  to  God  and  man  who 
discourages  marriage,  or  seeks  to  corrupt  society  by  weakening  the 
bonds  of  the  family  which  God  has  joined  together.  As  the  child  is 
father  to  the  man,  a  first  question  is,  what  then  shall  be  the  manner 
of  the  child  ?  And  the  answer  depends  on  the  place,  circumstances 
and  earliest  training  of  the  child.  Plato,  in  his  book  of  the  laws,  says 
that  he  who  is  about  to  be  a  good  man  in  anything  whatever,  ought 
immediately  from  childhood  to  begin  to  practice,  even  when  engaged 
in  playful  as  well  as  serious  pursuits,  the  very  things  suited  to  the 
particular  object  he  has  in  view.  That  is,  the  child  should  be  taught 
what  he  is  to  do  when  he  becomes  a  man.  And  there  is  great  wis- 
dom in  the  Hebrew  custom  and  of  other  people  also,  in  teaching 
every  boy  some  trade,  no  matter  how  rich  the  parents  may  be,  by 
which  in  case  of  need  he  could  make  an  honest  living. 

The  home,  the  school-room  and  the  house  of  worship,  and  alas ! 
the  streets,  with  all  their  sounds  and  sights,  make  our  children  what 
they  are.  The  home,  however  humble,  is  the  root  that  feeds  the 
whole  life.  The  education  of  children  is  like  the  nurture  of  trees. 
It  begins  with  feebleness,  its  growth  is  gradual  and  slow,  but  is  al- 
ways going  on.  Frosts  may  nip  the  sprout,  and  snow-storms  come 
on  the  sapling,  sunshine  and  tempests  rock  the  growing  oak,  but 
from  the  acorn  comes  the  monarch  of  the  forest.  The  growth  or 
education  of  children,  physically,  mentally  and  religiously,  is  always 
by  degrees,  and  everything  around  them  is  an  educator.  The  tidi- 
ness or  sloven  linen  of  the  room  where  they  are  born,  the  landscape 
from  the  window  on  which  they  first  gaze,  and  the  pictures  on  the 
walls,  and  the  hooks  whose  pictures  and  letters  their  eyes  first  trace 
out,  men,  animals  and  things — the  whole  world  of  nature  and  art  is 
concerned  in  and  actually  engaged  to  give  them  lessons.  They  may 
not  all  receive  the  honors  of  graduation  at  the  high  school  or  univer- 
sity, but  they  all  graduate  from  the  parental  hearth  and  nursery.  It 


INTRODUCTORY   ESSAY.  13 

is  there  the  precious  metal  is  first  molded  into  the  shape  which  may 
afterwards  be  rasped  and  polished,  but  cannot  be  recast.  There  the 
lines  are  traced  on  a  pliable  nature  that  will  become  more  enduring 
than  if  sculptured  on  marble.  The  lessons  of  our  earliest  home  are 
wrought  into  the  very  structure  of  the  immortal  mind.  The  heart  of 
the  little  one  nestled  in  a  mother's  arms  is  a  daguerreotype  plate  that 
receives  whatever  image  is  first  cast  upon  it,  but  unlike  the  picture 
on  the  artist's  plate,  the  living  heart  grows  larger  and  stronger,  but 
always  carries  on  it  the  first  impressions.  They  are  the  most  dis- 
tinct and  lasting.  The  tiniest  leaves  of  the  forest,  of  ages  so  long 
ago  that  we  know  not  their  date,  have  left  their  impressions  upon  the 
granite  rocks.  So  with  smiles  or  frowns,  or  vows  that  may  have  been 
carelessly  uttered,  and  with  the  scenes  enacted  in  the  family  circle — 
they  sink  into  the  soul  of  childhood,  though  apparently  at  the  time 
taking  no  notice  of  them,  and  yet  their  influence  may  be  traced  upon 
its  every  fibre  forever  afterwards,  as  if  written  with  a  pen  of  iron  or 
the  point  of  a  diamond.* 

It  was  the  mother's  example  and  lessons  of  social  philosophy, 
and  experimental  divinity  that  molded  the  character  of  George 
Washington.  And  John  Quincy  Adams  says :  "  It  is  due  to  grati- 
tude and  nature  that  I  should  acknowledge  and  avow  that  such  as  I 
have  been,  whatever  it  was,  such  as  I  am,  whatever  it  is,  and  such 
as  I  hope  to  be  in  all  futurity,  must  be  ascribed  under  providence  tc 
the  precepts,  prayers  and  example  of  my  mother."  Similar,  strong 
and  beautiful,  are  the  tributes  of  John  Randolph,  of  Roanoke,  and  of 
Andrew  Jackson,  to  the  influence  of  their  mothers.  "  God  bless 
mothers." 

W.  A.  SCOTT. 

SAN  FRANCISCO,  CAL. 


*See  "  The  Giant  Judge,"  Samson,  by  the  -writer  of  this  Introduction. 


PREFACE 


IN  the  preparation  of  the  ILLUSTRATED  AMERICAN  HOME  BOOK,  OR 
HOUSEKEEPER'S  ENCYCLOPEDIA  of  more  than  20,000  receipts  (all  prac- 
tical and  tested),  no  expense,  no  labor,  no  research,  or  investigation 
of  the  culinary  archives  (both  foreign  and  domestic)  has  been  spared, 
while  the  arena  of  successful  housekeeping  has  been  quietly  and 
thoroughly  looked  into  from  the  standpoint  of  many  years'  practical 
experience,  from  closely  observing  the  management  of  model  house- 
keepers, both  on  this  continent  and  abroad,  many  of  whom  have 
kindly  contributed  a  number  of  original,  invaluable  receipts,  thus 
augmenting  those  of  the  indefatigable  author,  not  only  from 
Europe  and  Australia,  but  from  intelligent  foreign  residents  in  Africa, 
Turkey,  Asia  Minor,  India,  China,  Arabia,  Brazil,  Columbia,  Peru, 
Chili,  Mexico,  Sandwich  Islands,  the  East  and  West  Indies,  all 
the  South  and  Central  Americas,  and  other  portions  of  the  world, 
which,  in  a  culinary  and  remedial  point  of  view,  are  above  price. 
I  (the  author)  have  lived  in  several  portions  of  China,  have  been 
in  both  the  Indies,  and  have  been  in  nearly  every  portion  of  the 
Union,  canvassing  for  these  receipts,  but  from  whatever  standpoint 
I  have  looked  upon  life  and  from  many  years'  practical  experience, 
my  scope  has  been  that  of  a  philosophical,  quiet- thinking,  utilitarian 
woman  ;  believing  that  by  this  mode  only  the  true  alchemy  of  good 
housekeeping  could  be  found,  the  genuine  domestic  philosopher's 
stone  discovered. 

I  have  added  many  simple,  yet  valuable  domestic  receipts,  for 
whose  remedial,  utilitarian  value  I  can  vouch  and  which  can  be  used 
with  impunity  until  medical  advice  can  or  cannot  be  obtained. 
These  receipts  are  adapted  to  all  climates  and  latitudes,  to  hotels  as 
well  as  restaurant  keepers.  In  families  it  directs  in  sickness,  the 
nursery,  diseases  of  children,  etc.,  while  the  orchard,  garden,  the 
dairy,  the  poultry  and  farm  yards,  the  laundry,  toilet,  etc.,  have  not 
been  overlooked,  besides  thousands  of  other  practical  receipts,  which 
are  above  price  to  housekeepers,  which  can  be  referred  to  at  any 
time,  consulted  at  once  as  a  judicious  friend,  an  able  counsellor  in 
cases  of  emergency.  It  is  a  work  well  worth  the  comprehensive 
name  it  bears — THE  ILLUSTRATED  AMERICAN  HOME  BOOK,  OR 
HOUSEKEEPER'S  ENCYCLOPEDIA. 


PREFACE.  15 

The  introduction  to  the  work  is  written  by  Rev.  W.  A.  Scott,  D. 
D.,  L.  L.  D.,  whose  experience  and  well-known  views  on  the  subject 
of  home  and  its  various  influences  are  too  well  known  to  need  repe- 
tition here. 

In  the  preparation  of  this  useful  and  valuable  book,  my  interest 
has  never  for  a  moment  flagged.  It  has  been  indeed  to  me  a  labor 
of  love,  for  my  thoughts  have  rapidly  pressed  forward  to  the  time 
when  the  book  will  not  only  be  hailed  and  welcomed  as  a  friend  and 
able  counsellor  and  adviser  in  the  many  cases  of  emergency  and 
doubt  in  households,  when  dishes  or  meals  must  be  prepared  at 
once,  or  remedies  applied  as  with  telegraph  quickness  until  the  medi- 
cal healing  man  is  sent  for  and  arrives,  which  in  many  sparsely  pop- 
ulated and  newly  settled  portions  of  the  country  is  hard  to  be  ob- 
tained and  often  impossible,  for  the  medical  profession  must  have 
something  to  support  it;  it  cannot  subsist  on  stones,  nor  exist  by 
breathing  the  air,  no  matter  how  exhilarating  or  wholesome ;  unless 
there  is  constant  fuel  applied  to  the  fires  of  vitality,  it  will  soon  be  re- 
duced to  ashes,  the  hearthstone  grow  cold,  domestic  cheer  be 
silenced,  and  the  voices  of  song  be  heard  no  more  as  in  many  other 
important  professions. 

The  receipts  and  suggestions  for  housekeeping  are  suited  to 
the  cottage  as  well  as  to  the  palace.  The  wife  of  the  poor  man 
working  for  his  daily  bread,  will  find  many  directions  for  preparing 
cheap  and  savory  dishes  for  her  family,  as  well  as  simple  directions 
for  taking  care  of  them  when  sick  and  out  of  the  reach  of  medical 
advice.  The  rich,  with  unlimited  means,  will  find  directions  for  pre- 
paring the  most  luxurious  dishes,  and  many  valuable  suggestions  for 
getting  up  dishes  for  the  sick  and  helpless  invalid,  which  of  all  luxu- 
ries I  consider  the  greatest — a  happiness  so  closely  allied  to  heaven 
that  it  seems  scarcely  to  find  a  lodgment  on  earth,  and  surely  none 
but  the  pure  in  heart  can  testify  to  what  it  is  ;  for  it  descended  from 
regions  of  love,  and  dwells  in  the  bosom  of  those  who  are  closely 
allied  to  Him  (who  was  self-annihilation)  who  has  pronounced  them 
blessed,  who  aided  the  helpless  poor,  visited  the  sick,  clothed  the 
destitute,  took  care  of  the  stranger,  fed  the  hungry,  etc.,  as  doing 
these  to  Him  in  person.  Because  they  can  do  no  more,  even  a  cup 
of  cold  water  given  in  His  name  does  not  go  unrewarded,  and  even 
a  willing  mind  is  accepted  of  Him  who  is  a  discerner  of  the  thoughts 
and  intents  of  the  heart 

I  do  not  believe  that  it  was  the  design  of  an  always  benefi- 
cent Providence  that  there  should  be  so  much  suffering  in  the  world, 
but  He  has  made  man  a  free  agent,  endowed  him  with  reason  and 
not  without  some  foresight  into  worldly  matters,  for  the  wise  man 
tells  us  that  the  "  prudent  man  forseeth  the  evil  and  hideth  himself." 
But  good  men  often  fall  into  the  hands  of  wicked,  deceitful  men,  as 


l6  PREFACE. 

treacherous  as  the  ocean  wave,  believing  that  all  is  well,  and  they  sink 
with  the  first  billow  that  surges  them.   When  these  misfortunes  come 
there  is  always  treachery,  or  extravagance,  or  indolence,  want  of  en- 
ergy somewhere,  and  these  misfortunes  are  then  entailed  often  on 
several  generations,  till  some  one  among  them  throws  off  the  fetters 
that  bind  him  or  her  and  rises  superior  to  circumstances,  which 
often  causes  a  shaking  among  the  dry  bones  of  the  whole  family 
compact ;  each  rises  in  full  armor  to  contend  with  stern  fortune  and 
overcomes,  yet  not  without  many  noble  and  honorable  scars,  of 
which  they  are  not  ashamed,  standing  on  the  pinacle  of  worldly  wealth. 
Yet  this  remains  seldom  longer  than  with  the  third  generation.     But 
this  will  be  discussed  in   another  and   proper  place.     To   return 
again  to  the  culinary  receipts.     I  know  that  it  is  hard  to  prevail  on 
cooks  to  follow  the  written  directions  of  a  receipt,  and  think  that  by 
simply  using   the    ingredients    without    any    proper    proportions, 
that  is  all  that  is  requisite,  and  hence  the  many  failures  in  good 
cooking.     For  bad  cooking  is  the  most  extravagant  thing  in  the 
world,  you  lose  your  material,  your  fuel,  the  hire  and  sustenance  of 
your  cook,  and  then  there  is  great  outlay  of  bad  temper  on  the  part 
of  the  mistress,  unless  exceedingly  good  and  amiable,  and  possess- 
ing a  large  share  of  that  important,  cardinal  Christian  virtue  which 
"suffereth  long  and  is  kind."     Bad  temper  makes  inroads  on  health. 
The  husband  is  disappointed  in  his  meal  and  leaves,  if  in  a  city,  for 
some  place  in  which  he  can  get  something  to  suit  his  appetite,  then 
the  cigar  and  social  glass  must  needs  follow,  his  home  in  a  measure 
given  up,  the  spirit  of  himself  and  wife  both  wounded,  which  the 
wise  man  asks  "  who  can  bear?  "     Now  this  is  extravagance  again, 
but  his  forsaking  his  home  may  not  stop  here,  it  may  lead  to  the 
gambling  table,  and  other  vices  which  will  surely  follow  in  its  train. 
For  extravagance  opens  the  door  for  every  evil,  whether  social, 
moral  or  intellectual,  and  which  is  so  often  entailed  on  his  helpless 
ones.     But  there  is  a  remedy  for  many  of  these  ills.     So,  my  sisters, 
let  you  and  inexperienced  housekeepers  come,  let  us  reason  together 
for  a  while  on  this  subject.     Should  you   be   a   novice   in  house- 
keeping, and  the  important  matter  of  conferring  and  retaining  the  hap- 
piness of  your  household,  just  take  your  cooking  book,  commit  the 
receipt  to  memory  if  not  too  long,  get  all  the  proportions  in  your 
head  and  adjust  everything  in  your  mind  as  you  wish  it  to  be,  then 
make  up  the  dish  in  your  pantry  or  kitchen  yourself  before  your  girl 
or  Johnny  (for  all  cooks  in  this  country  are  either  colored  girls,  or 
girls  from  the  "  Emerald  Isle,"  or  "Johnnies"  from  the  Celestial 
country,  no  matter  how  long  in  service),  let  them  see  how  easy  it  is 
to  be  done,  go  at  it  "  right  manfully,"  for  the  moment  your  cook 
sees  that  he  or  she  knows  more  than  you  do,  you  cease  to  be  mistress. 
If  you  do  not  succeed  entirely  to  your  satisfaction,  prepare  the  dish 


PREFACE.  17 

another  day,  do  it  with  your  own  hands,  or  direct,  and  it  will  be  bet- 
ter ;  then  another  the  next  day,  and  thus  continue  daily,  you  will 
soon  gain  confidence  in  yourself,  as  well  as  your  cook,  your  culinary 
lore  will  soon  be  greatly  enlarged,  and  in  a  few  years  will  be  a  walking 
encyclopedia  of  culinary  knowledge,  a  living  magazine,  which  may  be 
consulted  at  all  times.  Never  suffer  your  husband  to  be  dissatisfied 
even  with  the  first  meal,  or  even  a  dish,  without  conferring  with  him 
directly,  watch  his  likes,  and  prepare  by  varying  the  dishes  of  which  he 
seems  most  fond.  Let  him  never  have  a  dish  before  him  that  will 
offend  his  eye,  olfactories,  or  palate.  Pleasantly,  but  without  seem- 
ing to,  watch  the  expression  of  his  face  while  partaking  of  his  food. 
On  the  subject  of  bread  making,  butter  making,  and  coffee,  and  in- 
numerable subjects,  I  have  treated  in  their  proper  place,  which  may 
be  consulted  at  pleasure. 

Let  the  approbation  of  your  husband  be  the  great  design  of 
your  life,  to  keep  it,  for  with  your  maiden  simplicity  you  gained  it,  let 
him  not  realize,  when  brought  in  direct  contact  with  your  disposition 
and  principles  (after  the  man  of  God  pronounced  you  one)  the  senti- 
ment of  the  poet,  "  'Tis  distance  lends  enchantment  to  the  view." 
Let  these  be  to  him  like  pure  untried  gold,  that  they  become  purer, 
more  refined,  when  tried  in  the  crucible  of  domestic  life,  and  brighter 
from  the  abrasion  of  the  household  duties ;  though  it  has  been  a 
yoke,  yet  was  easy  and  the  burden  light,  and  you  have  not  been  all 
the  day  idle.  I  know  that  your  husband  will  think  that  he  has  the 
best  wife  and  sweetest  home  on  earth. 

Dr.  Johnson  says,  to  be  happy  at  home  is  the  ultimate  result 
of  all  ambition,  the  end  to  which  every  enterprise  and  labor  tends, 
and  of  which  every  desire  prompts  the  prosecution.  Though  man 
governs,  yet  woman  reigns,  her  throne  is  at  the  fireside,  her  seat  in 
the  heart,  her  empire  the  world,  her  household  is  her  sanctuary,  her 
place  of  worship  and  service.  Her  silver-toned  voice,  so  full  of  gen- 
tleness, tenderness,  and  sensibility  will  send  back  the  furious  tide 
that  boils  and  surges  in  the  veins  of  her  liege  lord  and  master, 
soothe  and  calm  down  his  passion,  and  stifle  and  assuage  his  rage, 
by  reasoning  and  prayerful  suasion,  reduce  the  crimson  tide  back 
to  its  natural  channel. 

Though  a  man's  motto  may  be  "excelsior"  yet  he  may  never  be  able 
to  go  up  higher  on  account  of  the  domestic  clogs  that  may  hang  to 
him  in  the  way  of  a  thriftless  wife.  Whenever  he  attempts  to  rise  he 
falls  back  on  account  of  their  weight. 

If  woman  has  truly  learned  to  keep  house  (for  it  is  the  "house- 
hold surroundings  which  affect  most  largely  the  happiness  or  the 
misery  of  domestic  life),  how  to  repair  clothing,  which  can  be  altered, 
renovated  or  modernized,  learns  how  to  turn  everything  to  the  best 
advantage,  and  to  make  her  supplies  go  farthest  and  longest,  to 


1 8  PREFACE. 

manage  her  children  and  servants  quietly,  appreciates  the  impor- 
tance of  system,  order  and  tidiness,  then  her  home  will  be  what  it 
ought  to  be,  her  husband  will  not  go  to  the  club-house,  gaming-table, 
nor  quaff  the  wine  cup,  nor  her  children  wander  in  the  streets,  for 
their  training  is  one  of  social  respectability  and  earnest  for  business 
success,  and  in  whatever  positions  may  be  allotted  to  them,  one  of 
efficiency  and  usefulness. 

The  time  has  come  when  all  girls  and  boys  should  have  some 
business  habits,  for  the  wheel  of  fortune  is  ever  revolving,  and  no 
one  knows  at  what  turn  he  or  she  may  go  down.  It  may  be  by  fire, 
extravagance,  speculation,  or  through  the  treachery  of  a  partner,  and 
no  one  can  tell  in  what  form  misfortunes  may  come. 

No  girl  should  think  of  throwing  herself  on  the  world  for  a  sup- 
port nor  quartering  herself  upon  relatives,  and  no  parent  knows  or 
can  tell  at  what  straits  a  daughter  may  arrive  in  the  course  of  a 
lifetime.  I  once  saw  a  lady,  who  my  mother  told  me  had  at  her 
father's  table  a  gold  coffee  and  tea  service,  was  educated  at  the  first 
female  school  in  the  land,  her  father  owned  leagues  of  land  on  one 
of  our  famous  rivers,  had  her  French  governess  with  her  at  home, 
the  house  and  grounds  superb  (for  I  have  often  been  in  them),  and 
everything  that  makes  a  home  desirable  was  hers.  She  married 
wealthy,  and  in  addition  to  her  own  grand  estate  her  husband  left  her  a 
large  fortune,  for  he  lived  but  a  short  time  after  their  marriage  ;  her  son 
was  also  left  with  princely  possessions ;  in  a  few  years  the  widow  mar- 
ried well  again,  a  few  years  rolled  on,  when  her  husband,  through  the 
treachery  of  his  partner,  lost  all,  died  of  a  broken  heart,  leaving 
her  six  little  children  to  support.  She  did  not  even  know  how  to  do 
the  simplest  things.  Her  neighbors  helped  and  encouraged  her, 
still  it  amounted  to  nothing,  when  the  mother  and  daughter  were 
both  lost  to  society,  her  thousand  pounds  of  fine  money  went  with 
the  general  wreck,  her  eldest  son  died  a  pauper.  Alas !  I  could  fill 
a  volume  of  similar  cases  if  need  be,  that  have  come  under  my  im- 
mediate observation,  all  for  want  of  the  proper  domestic  training,  to 
learn  to  know  how  to  do  everything,  for  whether  married  or  single, 
we  know  not  what  a  day  may  bring  forth. 

A  great  deal  is  said  and  written  about  not  being  able  to  get  em- 
ployment, which  is  true,  but  why  are  persons  notable  to  get  work? 
Simply  because  they  are  not  competent  to  fill  the  places  for  which 
there  is  a  constant  demand.  Thousands  could  get  places,  with  good 
salaries  in  elegant  houses  with  board  and  lodgings,  and  with  the 
thanks  of  their  employers,  were  it  known  that  their  characters  were 
good  and  they  competent  for  their  business,  in  the  way  of  house 
girls,  cooks,  chambermaids,  nurses  and  seamstresses.  How  many 
thousands  of  some  persons'  daughters  for  want  of  the  means  to 
house  and  feed  and  clothe  them,  sink  prematurely  into  their  graves 


PREFACE.  19 

through  the  wiles  of  seducers — fiends  in  human  shape,  that  walk  the 
earth,  and  whose  very  breath  contaminates  the  air  of  heaven.  Girls 
that  would  never  have  done  wrong,  had  they  not  been  driven  to  in- 
famy by  the  stress  of  poverty  which  would  not  have  been,  had  they 
possessed  knowledge  enough  of  some  calling  to  have  saved  them 
from  such  a  dire  calamity.  Let  every  mother  make  note  of  this, 
for  this  great  evil  must  alone  be  remedied  by  mothers,  for  it  is  a  duty 
they  owe  to  their  own  children,  to  society,  to  a  common  humanity, 
to  bring  up  their  daughters  to  be  competent  to  do  anything,  whether 
in  the  capacity  of  chambermaids,  dressmakers,  washerwomen,  as 
nurses  or  cooks.  A  good  nurse  will  command  from  two  to  six  or 
eight  dollars  a  day  for  the  sick  when  it  is  known  that  they  are  fully 
competent,  faithful,  trustworthy,  conscientious,  with  the  necessary 
tact  and  intelligence. 

If  girls  were  taught  how  to  gain  a  living,  our  large  asylums  if 
not  entirely  closed,  would  be  greatly  contracted,  vice,  crime  and  dis- 
ease, which  seem  to  come  together  as  by  inheritance,  would  in  a 
great  degree,  cease.  Immense  sums  of  money  which  go  to  support 
institutions  for  foundlings  and  paupers,  would  or  might  be  appropri- 
ated to  better  purposes,  and  for  the  general  good  of  the  country. 
Let  every  girl  learn  some  trade  or  housework,  as  though  she  might 
soon  become  poor,  then  she  will  have  a  life  insurance  in  fulf,  that 
she  will  never  come  to  want  unless  through  sickness.  Then  will  the 
moral  desolation  of  our  large  cities  cease,  their  waste  places  be  built 
up,  and  the  wilderness  of  sin,  misery  and  sorrow,  no  longer  blos- 
som as  the  rose. 

Let  the  great,  noble-minded,  large-hearted,  benevolent,  intel- 
lectual women  of  our  thrice  blessed  and  happy  country,  with  their 
example,  and  open  purses,- step  forward  and  dignify  labor,  raise  as  best 
they  can  the  fallen,  and  stay  the  wavering,  tottering  steps  of  those 
ready  to  fall  into  the  vortex  of  infamy  Let  the  wealthy  show  by 
their  own  household  and  daughters  that  labor  is  no  disgrace,  for  by 
it  they  will  be  much  more  likely  to  keep  their  wealth.  For  they  will 
know  how  to  keep  who  have  kept  their  homes.  What  a  blessed 
guarantee  knowledge  would  be  in  such  cases. 

Young  men  and  women  would  marry,  for  then  they  would  not 
be  afraid  to  do  so,  lest  one  should  hang  as  a  dead  weight  and  con- 
sume his  hard  earnings  in  doing  nothing,  or  in  hired  wasteful  help — 
nor  the  wife  on  the  other  hand  of  her  husband  being  a  spendthrift 
and  bringing  her  to  want. 

I  once  knew  an  old  lady  who  had  been  immensely  wealthy  and 
was  then  in  comfortable  circumstances,  but  she  often  said  that  her 
grand-children  would  serve  the  grand-children  of  those  in  her  em- 
ployment, and  which  did  come  to  pass. 

The  husband  should  find  in  his  wife  and  home  a  friend  and  sweet 
retreat,  where  he  should  find  a  gentle  welcome,  soothing  sympathy, 


2O  PREFACE. 

by  whose  sweet  converse  his  cares  will  be  beguiled  and  form  a 
striking  contrast  to  the  scenes  which  he  has  just  left  behind,  the  air 
of  peace,  love  and  order  towards  him.  Who  can  fix  a  bound  to 
woman's  influence  and  responsibility  ?  When  we  are  poor,  a  little 
kindness,  even  in  the  way  of  recognition  by  a  noble  woman,  goes  a 
long  way,  when  we  have  been  forgotten  and  passed  over  by  so 
many. 

In  referring  to  knowing  how  to  wait  on  the  sick,  I  once  visited  a 
sick  lady,  a  neighbor,  who  was  suffering  very  much  from  a  blister. 
1  asked  the  cause.  She  told  me  that  the  "  doctor  had  told  her 
daughter  that  as  soon  as  the  blister  was  taken  off  to  apply  a  warm 
poultice,  which  we  did,  and  which  was  to  be  renewed  once  in  so 
many  hours,  until  his  return,  but  it  stuck  so  fast  that  her  daughter 
could  not  get  it  off,  and  was  waiting  for  the  physician  to  come  tq 
show  her  how  to  remove  it."  I  at  once  asked  to  see  it,  but  to  my 
great  astonishment,  I  could  not  even  raise  the  edges.  I  quickly 
asked  the  daughter  of  what  she  made  the  poultice,  to  which  she 
replied  that  her  "  mother  told  her  how,  that  it  was  made  of  flour  and 
boiling  water."  I  then  called  for  some  milk,  which  I  warmed  and 
applied  to  the  horny  edges  of  the  plaster,  which  by  much  trouble 
and  care  I  softened  and  removed  from  the  suffering  patient.  Then 
1  had*  to  pick  out  the  pieces  of  paste  that  remained  on  the  blister, 
and  made  one  of  a  soothing  nature,  oiled  the  edges  and  applied, 
permitting  the  daughter  to  see  me  make  and  apply  it.  The  poor 
patient  was  soon  asleep,  for  she  had  been  suffering  for  hours.  Now 
the  mother  and  daughter  were  both  intelligent  persons,  in  the  com- 
mon acceptation  of  the  term,  but  neither  knew  anything  about  sick- 
ness. The  mother  had  never  been  sick  before,  but  died  from  this 
illness,  and  many  of  this  large  family  died  in  a  few  years,  as  well  as 
the  daughter  referred  to. 

I  shall  ever  remember  the  expression  of  the  face  of  a  sick  officer 
of  the  Union  army  (a  West  Pointer),  when  he  turned  almost  implor- 
ingly to  his  elegant  wife  and  asked  her  to  make  a  powder  he  had  pro- 
cured into  such  a  number  of  pills,  her  reply  was  that  she  had  never 
made  a  pill  and  did  not  know  how  to  do  it,  and  that  he  ought  to 
have  got  the  druggist  to  make  them  for  him  ;  he  said  that  he  was  so 
sick  that  he  forgot  it.  "  Take  the  powder  back  and  get  him  to  do 
it."  He  said,  beseechingly,  that  he  was  too  sick  to  go  out  on  the 
street,  and  might  fall.  I  replied  that  I  would  make  them  for  him,  for 
which  he  seemed  so  thankful. 

The  great  way  to  supereminent  success  in  housekeeping  can  be 
summed  up  in  two  words,  indomitable  perseverance,  which  means 
accurate  critical  observation,  persistent  action,  and  a  comprehensive 
judgment,  and  with  God's  blessing  no  one  need  fear  a  failure  in  the 
housekeeping  enterprise. 


GOOD  WORDS. 

HEALTH  IN  YOUTH — Late  hours,  irregular  habits,  want  of  attention 
to  diet,  are  common  causes  with  most  young  men,  and  these  gradu- 
ally, but  at  first  imperceptably,  undermine  the  health  and  lay  the 
foundation  for  various  forms  of  disease  in  after  life.  It  is  a  very  dif- 
ficult thing  to  make  young  persons  comprehend  this.  They  fre- 
quently sit  up  late  as  twelve,  one  or  two  o'clock  without  experien- 
cing any  ill  effects ;  they  go  without  a  meal  to-day,  and  to-morrow 
eat  to  repletion,  with  only  temporary  inconvenience.  One  night 
they  will  sleep  three  or  four  hours,  the  next  nine  or  ten  ;  or  one 
night,  in  their  eagerness  to  get  into  some  agreeable  company,  they 
will  take  no  food  at  all ;  and  the  next  will  perhaps  eat  a  hearty  sup- 
per and  perhaps  go  to  bed  upon  it.  These,  with  various  other  irreg- 
ularities are  common  to  the  majority  of  young  men,  and  are,  as  just 
stated  the  cause  of  much  bad  health  in  mature  life.  Indeed,  nearly 
all  the  shattered  constitutions  with  which  too  many  are  cursed,  are 
the  result  of  a  disregard  to  the  plainest  precepts  of  health  in  early 
life. 

WORDS. — Soft  words  soften  the  soul.  Angry  words  are  fuel  to 
the  flames  of  wrath  and  make  it  blaze  more  fiercely.  Kind  words 
make  other  people  good  natured.  Cold  words  freeze  people,  and 
hot  words  scorch  them,  and  bitter  words  make  them  bitter,  and 
wrathful  words  make  them  wrathful.  There  is  such  a  rush  of  all 
other  kinds  of  words  in  our  days  that  it  seems  desirable  to  give  kind 
words  a  chance  among  them.  There  are  vain  words,_  and  idle 
words,  and  hasty  words,  and  spiteful  words,  and  silly  words,  and 
empty  words,  and  profane  words,  and  boisterous  words,  and  warlike 
words.  Kind  words  produce  their  own  image  in  men's  souls  and  a 
beautiful  image  it  is.  They  smooth  and  quiet  the  hearer.  They 
shame  him  out  of  his  sour  and  morose,  and  unkind  feelings.  We 
have  not  yet  begun  to  use  kind  words  in  such  an  abundance  as  they 
ought  to  be  used. 

A  WIFE'S  POWER. — The  power  of  a  wife  for  good  or  evil  is  irre- 
sistible. Home  must  be  the  seat  of  happiness,  and  must  it  be  forever 
unknown?  A  good  wife  is  to  a  man  wisdom,  and  courage,  and 
strength  and  endurance.  A  bad  one  is  confusion,  weakness,  discom- 
fiture and  despair.  No  condition  is  seldom  hopeless  when  the 
wife  possesses  firmness,  discipline  and  economy.  There  is  no  out- 
ward prosperity  which  can  counteract  indolence,  extravagance  and 
folly  at  home.  No  spirit  can  long  endure  bad  domestic  influence. 


22  GOOD    WORDS. 

Man  is  strong,  but  his  heart  is  not  adamant.  He  delights  in  enterprise 
and  action ;  but  to  sustain  him  he  needs  a  tranquil  mind  and  a 
whole  heart.  He  needs  his  moral  force  in  the  conflicts  of  the 
world.  To  recover  his  equanimity  and  composure,  home  must  be  to 
him  a  place  of  repose,  of  peace,  of  cheerfulness,  of  comfort;  and 
his  soul  renews  its  strength  again,  and  goes  forth  with  fresh  vigor  to 
encounter  the  labor  and  troubles  of  life.  But  if  at  home  he  finds  no 
rest,  and  is  there  met  with  a  bad  temper,  sullenness,  or  gloom,  or  is 
assailed  by  discontent  or  complaint,  hope  vanishes  and  he  sinks  into 
despair. 

OUR  CHILDREN. 

MENTAL  EDUCATION. — It  is  far  better  in  an  excitable  child  with  a 
large  brain  and  a  healthy  body,  to  keep  it  back  in  its  education  than 
to  encourage  the  exercise  of  its  memory  in  learning  verses  and  other 
showy  feats  of  memory.  A  dull  child  may  of  course  be  allowed  to 
go  as  far  as  it  will,- and  may  even  be  encouraged  in  every  possible 
way,  but  many  brains  are  not  so  early  developed,  that  the  contrary 
system  is  necessary,  and  all  books  and  even  music  lessons  must  be 
postponed,  until  the  strength  of  the  body  is  confirmed  by  constant 
exercise  and  fresh  air.  It  is  the  vice  of  the  present  day  to  attempt 
to  force  the  intellect  by  early  cultivation,  and  hundreds  of  children 
are  yearly  made  more  mediocre  in  their  mind  than  they  otherwise 
would  be  by  overstraining  the  infantile  faculties.  For  knowledge  to 
be  profitable,  must  be  assimilated  with  the  developing  mind,  and 
this  may  be  one  cause  of  our  not  having  the  great  calibre  of  intellect 
that  was  found  among  our  revolutionary  ancestors,  for  the  mind,  like 
every  other  living  thing,  becomes  dwarfed  by  the  forcing  process.  In 
most  cases  a  child  ought  to  know  his  letters  at  five,  but  beyond  this 
everything  else  may  be  safely  left  to  a  future  day;  and  many  first 
rate  characters,  endowed  with  the  highest  attainments  are  formed 
upon  a  foundation  much  later  than  this. 

SIMPLICITY  OF  THE  PRIMITIVE  AGES. 

The  simplicity  of  the  primitive  ages  has  been  an  object  of  par- 
ticular admiration,  and  it  delights  the  imagination  to  picture  men 
living  upon  such  fruits  as  spring  spontaneously  from  the  earth,  and 
desiring  no  other  beverages  to  slake  their  thirst,  but  such  as  foun- 
tains and  rivers  supply.  Thus  we  are  told  that  the  ancient  inhabi- 
tants of  Argus  lived  on  pears  principally  ;  that  the  Arcadians  revelled 
on  acorns  ;  and  the  Athenians  on  figs.  This  of  course  was  the  Gold- 
en Age,  before  ploughing  began,  and  when  mankind  enjoyed  all 


SIMPLICITY  OF  THE   PRIMITIVE  AGES.  23 

kinds  of  plenty  without  having  to  earn  their  bread  by  the  sweat  of 
their  brow.  This  delightful  period,  however,  could  not  last  forever, 
and  the  earth  became  barren,  and  continued  unfruitful  until  Ceres 
came,  and  taught  the  art  of  sewing,  with  several  other  useful  inven- 
tions. The  first  she  taught  was  Triptolemus,  who  communicated  his 
instructions  to  his  countrymen,  the  Athenians,  whence  the  art  was 
carried  into  Achia,  and  thence  into  Arcadia.  Barley  was  the  first 
grain  that  was  used,  and  the  invention  of  bread  making  is  ascribed 
to  Pann.  The  use  of  fire  as  an  instrument  of  cooking  must  have 
been  coeval  with  this  invention  of  bread,  which  being  the  most  nec- 
essary of  all  kinds  of  food,  was  frequently  used  in  a  sense  so  com- 
prehensive as  to  include  both  meat  and  bread.  It  was  by  the  Greeks 
baked  under  the  ashes.  In  the  primitive  ages  it  was  deemed  unlaw- 
ful to  eat  flesh.  When  men  began  to  depart  from  their  primitive 
habits,  the  flesh  of  swine  was  the  first  that  was  eaten.  For  several 
ages  it  was  pronounced  unlawful  to  kill  or  slaughter  an  ox,  from  an 
estimate  of  their  great  value  in  assisting  men  to  cultivate  the 
ground ;  nor  was  it  usual  to  kill  young  animals  from  a  sentiment 
which  considered  it  cruel  to  take  away  the  life  of  those  that  had 
scarcely  tasted  the  joys  of  existence.  At  this  period  no  cooks  were 
kept,  and  we  learn  from  Homer  that  his  ancient  heroes  prepared 
and  dressed  their  own  victuals.  Ulysses  excelled  in  lighting  a  fire, 
and  Achilles  was  an  adept  in  turning  the  spit.  Art  of  living  in  every 
civilized  country  is  pretty  much  the  same.  The  instruments  of  cook- 
ing must,  in  a  great  degree,  bear  a  striking  resemblance  to  each 
other. 

THE  BEAUTY  OF  A  ^'ELL-ORDERED  HOME. 

In  training  the  young,  the  beauty  of  a  well-ordered  home  is  be- 
yond computation,  for  the  mother  presides  over  it.  The  first  step 
that  offers  the  sweet  incense  in  domestic  bliss  on  the  domestic  altar, 
for  the  happiness  of  those  called  her  family,  and  kept  perpetually 
burning  from  the  fervent  emanations  of  her  unselfish,  self-immolat- 
ing heart,  or  if  her  heart  be  wrung  with  anguish,  she  is  still  the  same 
faithful  being,  knows  no  weariness  nor  abatement  of  interest  in  the 
welfare  of  her  loved  ones.  It  is  in  this  home  that  parents  can  hold 
counsel  and  consider  what  measures  are  best  for  the  government  of 
their  posterity.  In  this  domain  children  can  gather  and  gambol  in  the 
very  exuberance  of  their  young  life  in  unmolested  joyousness.  It  is 
here,  after  toiling  through  the  day,  the  husband  finds  rest  for  his 
wearied  frame,  with  his  little  ones  full  of  frolic  and  glee  around  him. 
He  feels  that  it  is  a  sacred  retreat,  is  thankful  for  his  exemplary  and 
affectionate  wife,  and  bows  his  head  in  gratitude  for  his  blessings. 
For  there  is  nothing  like  a  cheerful,  happy  home. 


24  THE  BEAUTY  OF  A  WELL-ORDERED  HOME. 

The  mother  teaches  her  children  that  employment  is  dignified,  and 
should  be  sought,  as  it  strengthens  the  mind  and  body,  and  matures 
the  character  that  will  shine  bright  and  lovely  in  moral  excellence 
and  active  beauty.  "The  Author  of  every  good  and  perfect  gift  " 
gave  us  six  days  to  perform  our  own  work,  and  the  seventh  day  for 
rest.  He  whose  tender  mercies  are  over  all  His  works  would  not 
have  so  ordained,  had  He  not  known  that  labor  was  best  for  us,  as  it 
would  enable  us  to  resist  the  temptations  of  our  great  adversary, 
who  ever  finds  mischief  for  idle  hands  to  perform.  Teach  your 
children  to  work  for  some  good,  let  it  be  ever  so  lowly,  cherish  some 
flower,  that  labor  is  noble  and  holy,  that  there  is  a  dread  responsi- 
bility hanging  over  their  existence,  that  God  created  them  in  His  own 
image,  and  stamped  on  both  their  soul  and  body  the  sense  of 
duty. 

We,  as  mothers,  should  teach  our  daughters  the  duty  and  practice 
of  self-denial  in  some  little  things,  in  order  to  give  to  the  poor  around 
them,  to  administer  a  little  to  their  comfort  and  happiness  in  sick- 
ness and  in  health.  Should  bring  before  them  and  the  other  child- 
ren the  sin  of  being  wasteful,  that  such  and  such  things  will  make  a 
nice  soup  or  pudding  for  such  a  one  who  is  sick,  and  that  they  may 
assist  in  making  the  dish  and  you  will  go  with  them  to  take  it,  and 
that  the  poor  on  their  beds  of  sickness,  often  crave  things  which 
they  are  unable  to  get.  I  have  seen  the  face  of  little  ones  lighted 
up  with  joy,  and  their  eyes  sparkle  with  gladness  at  such  teaching, 
and  these  instructions  will  be  more  prized  than  if  you  had  given 
an  empire  of  wealth  while  the  mantle  of  a  mother's  virtues 
have  fallen  on  them,  "  for  blessed  is  he  that  considereth  the  poor." 
The  duty  to  the  poor  should  be  one  of  the  first  lessons  to  the  young. 
We  should  teach  them  never  to  deny  bread  or  charity  at  our  own  door, 
that  their  means,  be  it  ever  so  small  can  do  some  good,  we  should 
instill  in  their  young  hearts  the  love  of  good  deeds,  the  love  of  hap- 
piness arising  from  having  done  a  good  action,  of  their  duty  to  God, 
their  neighbor  and  all  mankind.  Every  person  whose  wants  are 
brought  to  our  knowledge  is  our  neighbor. 

OUR  PARLORS  AND  OUR  CHILDREN. 

OUR  PARLORS  are  designed  and  expected  to  be  always  in  readiness 
to  receive  visitors,  where  the  dim  of  domestic  matters  will  not 
reach  their  ears  while  the  pleasure  of  entertainment  goes  on.  The 
present  mode  of  keeping  the  parlors  dark  in  small  country  towns 
plays  well  into  the  hands  of  housekeepers,  who  perform  the  work  of 
cleaning  once  a  week.  Where  no  child  is  admitted,  but  by  a  chance 
call,  and  to  the  children  of  the  family  it  is  almost  a  ("terra  incogni- 


OUR  PARLORS  AND  OUR  CHILDREN.  25 

ta")  land  unknown  to  them.  But  I  do  not  think  that  this  should  be 
the  case.  How  often  do  mothers  or  an  older  sister  lead  out  of  this 
consecrated  place  the  unfortunate  little  or  larger  member  of  the 
household,  who  had  seized  the  opportunity  of  going  to  see  the  pic- 
tures, works  of  art,  and  to  smell  the  sweet  flowers  from  beautiful 
vases  brought  from  distant  lands,  and  to  handle  the  curiosities  on 
the  etagere.  All  of  this  is  perfectly  natural  to  them,  and  even  to 
grown  people,  and  handle  the  large  and  elegantly  gilt  bible,  with  its 
gay  bindings,  and  other  books  on  the  centre  table,  to  trace  out  the 
beautiful  figures  of  the  rich  parlor  carpets,  and  the  handsome  de- 
signs of  the  albumens  embroidered  by  their  mother,  and  sometimes 
they  may  mount  the  piano  stool  and  begin  to  thump  on  the  keys  of 
the  piano,  or  to  pull  the  harp  strings.  Now  all  of  this  could  be 
prevented  by  not  making  these  things  strange  to  them,  by  letting 
them  go  in  with  the  older  members  of  the  family  at  pleasure.  It 
would  be  no  more  a  treat  for  them  to  enter  it  than  any  other  room 
of  the  house.  In  doing  this  their  manners  would  become  more 
refined  and  easy,  and  there  would  not  be  that  shyness  and  awk- 
wardness that  we  often  see  in  mothers.  Entering  the  parlor  with  care 
and  grace  speaks  volumes  in  the  mother's  praise.  Mothers  or  the 
older  members  of  the  family  should  explain  all  the  family  or  histori- 
cal pictures,  and  where  everything  in  the  parlor  is  made,  if  at  home  or 
in  foreign  lands,  to  their  eager  minds,  listening  ears,  and  bright, 
sparkling,  and  soul-drinking  eyes.  Let  them  see  and  feel  that  noth- 
ing is  too  good  for  them,  a  spirit  of  enquiry  is  created,  and  they  are 
consequently  fitted  to  fill  any  place  in  society.  For  the  hearts  of 
children  are  pliant  and  tender  as  wax  to  receive  the  impressions  made 
on  them.  In  the  beginning  God  designed  woman  as  a  help  meet 
for  man,  to  divide  his  cares  and  to  lighten  his  toils,  and  not  as  a 
glittering  toy  or  an  expensive  luxury,  or  a  mere  appendage  to  his 
household,  or  to  add  a  long  list  to  his  expenses.  No ;  the  whole 
domestic  economy,  as  it  existed  in  the  divine  mind,  goes  to  show 
that  the  only  true  happiness  realized  in  this  relation  is  a  mutual  de- 
pendence on  each  other,  a  love  unknown  but  to  the  pure  in  heart,  a 
union  of  kindred  spirits  where  each  strives  to  lighten  the  burden  and 
heat  of  each  day  for  the  other.  Yet  the  entire  happiness  of  the 
home  circle,  as  well  as  the  present  and  future  welfare  of  the  "little 
ones"  is  totally  dependent  upon  the  management  of  the  woman,  the 
mother.  How  very  careful  ought  she  to  be  in  dealing  out  to  them 
the  good  things  of  her  house  in  the  way  of  brandied  fruits,  wines, 
juleps,  cordials,  brandied  and  wine  sauces,  etc.  Drunkards  have 
been  heard  to  say  that  their  taste  for  strong  drink  was  excited  by 
these  things,  the  flame  of  desire  kindled  by  her  own  hands  which 
often  leads  and  entails  misery  on  her  sons  and  others  in  this  world 


26  OUR  PARLORS  AND    OUR  CHILDREN. 

and  eternal  condemnation  for  them  in  that  to  come.  Child- 
Ten  have  been  known  to  break  the  eighth  section  of  the  decalogue 
to  obtain  the  wherewith  to  appease  the  demands  of  the  appetite 
thus  engendered  and  cultivated,  and  that  even  from  the  mother's 
purse,  which  leads  her  to  break  another  commandment  by  thinking 
hardly  or  openly  accusing  her  innocent  servant  of  the  crime  ;  how 
could  she  think  that  the  vice — the  sin — was  committed  by  the  children 
she  had  so  carefully  trained,  by  the  blood  which  flowed  from  her 
own.  No ;  this  dishonest  act  could  not  lie  at  their  door.  It  was 
done  by  her  faithless  domestic,  who  in  all  probability  is  dismissed  in 
disgrace,  and  sent  to  seek  a  home  and  employment  where  she  could 
find  it,  and  where  this  accusation  is  not  known,  yet  she  appeals  to 
her  Maker  with  all  the  satisfaction  of  an  approving  innocent  con- 
science, "Thou  God,  seest  me  !"  Where  does  this  fault  lie?"  No 
•  where  but  with  the  mother.  For  to  her  is  given  to  sow  the  seed  in 
the  child's  mind,  which  springs  forth,  first  the  "  blade,  then  the  corn, 
and  then  the  full  corn  in  the  ear,"  her  example  determines  the  steps 
of  her  child  towards  virtue  or  vice,  his  reeling  footsteps,  his  frenzied 
brain,  his  oath-emitting  lips,  his  treatment  to  her,  to  his  family,  and  his 
equalizing  himself  with  the  brutes  or  even  below  them,  or  she  may 
by  her  example,  elevate  him  to  the  highest  standard  of 
moral  excellence,  as  a  dutiful  son,  a  worthy  citizen,  a  kind  husband 
and  father,  a  noble  patriot,  an  honor  to  his  country  and  a  blessing 
to  himself  and  to  the  world.  This  has  been  done,  and  mothers  can 
perform  the  glorious  work  again,  and  continue  to  repeat  it  till  time 
shall  be  no  more.  But  mothers  often  leave  their  children  to  the  care 
and  guidance,  and  at  the  mercy  of  the  nurse,  who  may  teach  them 
many  things  which  they  should  not  know.  And  why  do  they  do 
this?  That  they  may  attend  the  theatre  or  other  places  of  amuse- 
ment with  certain  friends  who  are  going,  or  to  mingle  in  the  pleasure 
of  the  ball  room  for  a  few  hours  at  most,  her  face  blooming  with  ar- 
tificial roses,  her  hair  resplendent  with  gems,  her  garments  radiant 
with  real  or  false  diamonds,  and  decked  with  jewelry  flashing  with 
stones,  brought  from  the  most  distant  countries,  from  the  bottom  of 
the  ocean,  or  from  the  lowest  explored  stratum  of  earth's  bosom ; 
leaving  her  little  ones  in  piteous  sobs,  which  perhaps  to  soothe,  the 
nurse  who  feels  no  other  interest  in  them  than  the  amount  and  pay- 
ment of  her  wages,  gives  them  drugs,  thus  relieves  herself  of  what 
she  considers  a  bore,  or  looks  upon  them  with  a  threat  of  vengeance  if 
a  hint  of  what  she  has  done  is  breathed  by  them.  Yet  while  this  is 
going  on,  the  mother's  influence  is  weakened,  the  ground  into  which 
good  seed  should  be  sown  is  preoccupied  by  the  tares  of  wicked  ex,- 
ample  sown  by  .a  hireling  and  an  enemy. 


LOCATION  OF  A  HOUSE.  27 


LOCATION  OF  A  HOUSE. 

• 

LOCALITY,  ASPECT,  AND  PLAN. — In  choosing  a  situation  for  a  house, 
the  builder  ought  to  consider  very  carefully,  all  the  objections  and 
advantages  that  may  be  urged  for  or  against  each  spot  proposed  to 
him.  To  those  who  have  lived  in  richly  wooded  districts,  the  sea  air 
is  a  complete  panacea  for  all  their  ills,  not  only  because  it  is  bracing 
from  its  saline  particles,  which  are  chiefly  useful  to  the  citizen,  but 
because  its  air  is  free  from  the  emanations  of  vegetation.  But  to  thff 
dweller  in  exposed  situations,  sea  air  is  often  prejudicial,  and  instead 
of  affording  the  relief  to  the  ailments  to  which  it  is  obnoxious,  it  ag- 
gravates them  tenfold,  unless  he  can  find  a  warm  and  protected  spot, 
somewhat  like  the  one  to  which  they  are  acustomed,  and  some  of  the 
secluded  nooks  in  the  interior. 

With  regard  to  situation,  then,  it  should  be  repeated,  that  a  dry 
soil  is  always  to  be  desired,  and  according  to  the  nature  of  the  dis- 
trict, either  a  high  one,  or  else  a  moderately  sheltered  one.  Gravel 
is  desirable  as  a  subsoil  in  all  but  very  few  situations,  and  even  then, 
if  it  is  very  well  drained,  but  nothing  can  be  worse  than  a  gravel  bed 
which  is  locked  in  by  a  surrounding  basin  of  clay,  without  any  outlet 
for  its  rainfall.  Such  a  spot  is  a  sponge,  constantly  accumulating  the 
elements  of  disease  which  are  prejudicial,  both  to  man  and  to  some 
of  the  domestic  animals,  for  it  is  notorious  that  such  a  kind  of  land 
is  peculiarly  fatal  to  sheep.  It  is  not,  therefore,  the  mere  existance 
of  a  gravel  bed  which  makes  a  spot  suited  to  the  habitation  of  man, 
but  it  also  must  be  well  drained,  both  superficially  and  in  its  subsoil, 
in  order  to  be  fit  for  his  residence.  It  is  astonishing  what  effect  a 
small  difference  in  the  elevation  has  upon  the  salubrity  of  a  particu- 
lar spot,  A  nse  of  sixteen  feet  within  three  hundred  yards  has  been 
known  to  produce  an  entire  change  from  a  relaxing  to  a  bracing  air; 
this  was  partly  caused  by  the  lower  spot  being  the  bottom  of  a  basin 
and  completely  enveloped  in  foliage,  while  the  higher  was  compara- 
tively free  from  trees  and  had  a  tolerable  fall  for  its  surface  water  and 
for  its  drainage.  Whenever  there  is  a  fall  of  ten  feet  to  a  running 
stream,  the  drainage  in  country  houses  may  always  be  efficiently 
carried  out,  as  far  as  the  individual  house  is  concerned,  but  this  is 
not  the  only  consideration,  for  the  surrounding  fields  should  always 
be  well  drained,  or  they  will  be  constantly  enveloped  in  fogs  and  be- 


28  LOCATION  OF  A  HOUSE. 

come  fertile  sources  of  evil.  The  side  of  a  hill  is  not  always  a  heal- 
thy spot,  unless  the  herbage  is  scanty  and  is  free  from  woods,  or 
unless  the  surface  water  is  uninterrupted  by  a  break  or  drain  con- 
siderably above  the  level  of  the  proposed  site  and  carried  off  in  a 
different  direction.  No  spot,  in  most  cases,  is  more  suited  for  a 
house  than  a  slight  rise  or  knoll  which  looks  down  on  all  the  sur- 
rounding land,  for  here  there  is  no  chance  for  any  annoyance  from 
water  courses  belonging  to  other  parties ;  and  malaria  arising  from 
stagnant  water.  Quickly  running  streams,  so  long  as  they  are  not 
subject  to  extensive  floods,  are  never  in  any  way  injurious  and  may 
be  made  the  means  of  carrying  off  all  the  unhealthy  accumulations 
of  a  country  residence.  But  dammed  waters  of  all  kinds,  unless 
there  is  a  good  stream  through  them,  especially  stagnant  ponds, 
should  be  carefully  avoided  near  a  house,  however  ornamental  they 
may  be. 

It  may  be  gathered  from  what  has  been  remarked,  that  the 
writer  has  a  horror  of  water,  and  so  she  has,  if  in  the  wrong  place. 
Water,  like  fire,  is  a  good  friend  but  a  fatal  enemy,  and  should 
be  as  carefully  sought  for  in  the  one  capacity,  as  it  should  be  es- 
chewed in  the  other.  It  has  already  been  said  that  gravel  or  sand 
in  certain  situations  is  highly  desirable,  that  is,  when  well  drained, 
and  with  these  may  be  coupled  sand-stone  or  lime-stone  subsoils, 
chalk' and  also  primary  rocks,  these  all  give  good  air  and  some  of 
them  good  water  ;  on  the  other  hand,  are  high,  dry  and  bracing.  In 
the  high-lands,  health  beams  in  every  eye,  and  the  step  is  elastic  and 
firmer,  if  not  always  graceful.  But  in  low  districts  the  cheeks  are 
pallid,  the  eye  sunken  and  dull,  and  the  step  is  inelastic,  while  the 
real  heighth  is  apparently  reduced  to  a  stoop  which  amounts  in  many 
cases  to  a  crouch.  Spirits  are  drank  in  incredible  quantities  without 
those  ill  effects  which  follow  their  use  in  more  healthfull  districts. 
Though  we  have  hitherto  discussed  the  presence  of  water  as  a  foe,  it 
must  now  be  looked  upon  as  a  friend  which  cannot  well  be  dispensed 
with,  and  whose  place,  when  absent,  cannot  be  supplied  by  any  other 
substitute.  In  some  of  the  most  healthy  districts  in  other  respects, 
water  is  a  desideratum  which  can  scarcely  be  obtained  on  any  terms 
in  dry  summers,  and  the  want  of  it  is  felt  as  a  sore  evil  by  its  inhab- 
itants, and  severe  losses  often  are  sustained  by  them  in  sheep  and 
cattle  for  want  of  this  fluid.  Much  here  will  depend  upon  the  pecul- 
iar circumstances  of  the  individual,  as  for  instance,  his  occupation  or 
pursuits,  his  family  or  professional  connections  ;  the  facility  of  ac- 
cess or  the  susceptibility  of  the  neighborhood  to  his  position  in 
society.  The  district  which  will  suit  one  man,  may  be  either  too  aris- 
tocratic or  too  low  for  another.  The  frequent  passing  of  omnibuses 
or  street  cars  would  be  an  annoyance  to  many  individuals,  while 


LOCATION  OP  A  HOUSE.  29 

others  would  not  mind  it.  The  same  may  be  said  in  reference  to 
railway  stations,  to  which  the  daily  traveler  would  gladly  be  near  on 
account  of  the  mode  of  conveyance,  whilst  the  bulk  of  mankind  would 
dislike  its  noise  and  tumult.  Neighborhood  of  manufactories  and 
mills  will  be  avoided  except  by  those  employed  about  them.  If  tall 
chimneys  are  seen  near  the  spot  which  is  in  contemplation,  it  is  well 
to  ascertain  exactly  what  they  are  used  for,  and  whether  any  noxious 
or  offensive  trades  are  carried  on.  In  every  case  the  drainage 
should  be  attended  to,  and  it  should  be  ascertained,  either  that  there 
is  a  sufficient  culvert  near,  capable  of  conveying  off  the  house  drain- 
age, or  that  facilities  exist  for  a  cess-pool ;  where  the  habitations  are 
not  too  high,  it  is  thought  that  cess-pools  are  by  no  means  objec- 
tionable, that  is,  provided  they  can  be  made  at  a  sufficient  distance 
from  the  house,  but  nevertheless,  a  well-arranged  culvert  is  always  to 
be  preferred.  In  those  cases,  where  large  culverts  are  so  built  that 
they  have  little  or  no  fall,  and  are  never  flushed  except  by  storm 
water,  they  are  far  inferior  to  a  well-built  cess-pool ;  for  as  they  ac- 
cumulate their  contents  in  enormous  quantities,  and  daily  receive 
fresh  additions  without  passing^  them  on,  their  gaseous  emanations 
are  bound  to  return  through  the  traps  in  spite  of  all  the  care  in  the 
world  in  their  construction.  There  is  no  Alteration  to  any  extent, 
(or  if  any,  it  is  in  that  way  highly  injurious  to  the  basement  floors  of 
those  houses  which  are  next  to  the  leakage)  and  consequently  the 
bulk  is  not  diminished  sometimes  for  weeks  or  even  months  together, 
that  is,  as  long  as  there  is  no  rain.  In  a  cess-pool,  on  the  other 
hand,  a  man  has  the  control  of  his  own  and  is  not  annoyed  by  that 
of  his  neighbor,  unless  the  neighborhood  is  very  close,  in  which  case, 
as  before  remarked,  these  receptacles  should  be  avoided.  Recently 
made  ground  should  always  be  suspicious,  as  it  is  generally  the  seat 
of  a  reclaimed  marsh,  and  as  such  takes  many  years  to  be  made  fit 
for  human  habitation.  All  filled  up  ponds  are  still  worse  where 
their  vegetable  matter  has  been  burried  beneath  the  surface.  Water 
comes  very  high  in  the  list  of  requisites  in  all  suburban,  as  in  fact  in 
every  other  kind  of  residence.  A  good  well  of  spring  water  can  sel- 
dom be  reckoned  on,  but  it  should  be  obtained  if  possible,  but  now 
companies  supply  a  perfectly  pure  and  wholesome  water,  which  is  as 
refreshing  as  it  is  most  agreeable  to  the  palate. 

Supposing  a  plat  of  ground  is  offered  for  sale  in  a  neighborhood 
only  partly  covered ;  it  will  be  desirable  to  ascertain  what  proba- 
bility there  is  of  the  remainder  being  turned  into  an  annoyance, 
either  in  the  shape  of  a  factory,  a  public  house,  or  even  in  that  of  a 
place  of  worship,  neither  of  which  is  a  desirable  building  to  have 
located  in  front  of  one's  drawing-room  windows.  When  a  garden, 
either  for  flowers  or  vegetables,  is  desired,  of  course  the  nature  of 


3O  LOCATION    OF    A    HOUSE. 

the  soil  will  form  an  object  of  inquiry.  Lastly,  the  soil  must  be  ex- 
amined in  reference  to  the  foundations,  which  are* sometimes  a  con- 
siderable source  of  expenditure  when  the  building  has  commenced. 
Good  rocks  and  chalk  are  excellent  for  this  purpose,  especially  if  the 
whole  site  to  be  occupied  by  the  house  is  composed  of  the  same.  A 
good  foundation,  therefore,  renders  a  spot  so  much  cheaper  than  a 
bad  one. 

THE  ASPECT. — To  a  certain  extent,  the  choice  of  aspect  is  left  to 
be  decided  after  the  purchase  of  a  site  ;  but  not  entirely  so,  because 
in  many  cases  of  suburban  residences  the  owner  is  compelled  to  build 
his  house  in  conformity  with  existing  arrangements,  if  not  in  a  partic- 
ular plan,  yet  with  a  settled  aspect.     Here,  therefore,  he  should  pause 
and  consider  whether  the  aspect  is  a  good  one;  but,  for  this  purpose, 
it  is  right  to  know  what  is  really  good  and  the  reverse.     In  this  way 
we  have  two  things  to  consider :  the  prevailing  objectionable  wind 
and  the  sun.     In  this  climate,  the  wind  which  we  desire  most  to 
avoid  is  that  from  the  east  or  north — sometimes  one  and  sometimes 
the  other  being  the  worst,  according  to  the  protection  afforded  by 
the  nearest  mountains  or  hills;  whichever,  therefore,  is  the  worst, 
neither  the  back  nor  the  front  should  be  turned  that  way,  but  one  of 
the  sides,  in  which  there  need  be  few  openings.     Again,  it  is  of  great 
importance  to  health,  especially  to  that  of  young  children,  that  they 
should  have  a  plenty  of  sun,  especially  morning  sun  ;  and,  therefore, 
a  north  aspect  is  not  good  or  cheerful,  inasmuch  as  little  sun  can  be 
obtained  on  that  side.     Neither  is  a  full  south  or  southwest  aspect 
very  much  to  be  sought  after,  because  here  we  have  too  much  of  a 
good  thing,  and  are  scorched  by  the  sun's  rays  ;  but  a  southeastern 
view  of  this  luminary  is  the  one  which  commands  all  the  advantages, 
without  any  drawbacks,  and  is  that  which  most  people  would  choose, 
if  they  could.     In  this  aspect  we  have  the  sun  upon  the  breakfast 
table,  which  is  the  time  when  children  are  benefited  most  by  its  rays, 
and  are  rendered  happy  and  cheerful  for  the  rest  of  the  day.     The 
nursery,  therefore,  should  be  turned  to  this  point,  if  possible ;  when 
the  heat  of  the  summer  comes 'there  is  all  the  cheerfulness  and  health 
which  it  affords  in  the  morning,  without  the  sultry  heat  of  the  after- 
noon.    In  town  this  is  of  a  still  greater   importance  than  in  the 
country.     This  fact  has  often  been  proved  by  comparing  a  number 
of  young  families  on  the  two  sides. 

I  again  repeat,  in  choosing  a  house,  that  the  health  and  comfort 
of  a  family  should  be  of  the  highest  importance  ;  that  the  neighbor- 
hood of  all  factories  of  any  kind,  producing  unwholesome  effluvia 
and  smells,  should  be  strictly  avoided.  Nither  is  it  well  to  take  a 
house  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  where  a  noisy  trade  is  carried  on, 
as  it  is  unpleasant  to  the  feelings,  and  tends  to  increase  any  existing 
irritation  of  the  system. 


LOCATION    OF   A    HOUSE.  31 

The  aspect  of  the  house  should  be  well  considered,  and  it  should 
be  borne  in  mind  that  the  more  sunlight  that  comes  into  the  house 
with  a  south  and  southeast  aspect,  is  lighter,  warmer,  dryer,  and 
consequently  more  healthy,  than  one  facing  the  north  or  northeast. 
The  close,  fetid  air  which  assails  us  is  assigned  to  the  want  of  light, 
and  consequently  more  unhealthy  than  one  facing  the  north  or  north- 
east. One  of  the  most  essential  points  to  be  observed  in  reference 
to  a  house  is  its  "drainage."  Bad  or  defective  drainage,  as  it  has 
been  proved  in  an  endless  number  of  cases,  is  certain  to  destroy 
health,  as  the  taking  of  poison.  This  arises  from  its  injuriously 
affecting  the  atmosphere,  thus  rendering  the  air  we  breathe  un- 
wholesome and  deleterious.  Let  it  be  borne  in  mind  that,  unless  a 
house  is  effectually  drained,  the  health  of  its  inhabitants  is  sure  to 
suffer,  and  they  will  be  susceptible  of  ague,  rheumatism,  diarrhoea, 
fevers  and  cholera.  An  all-important  point,  that  of  the  water  sup- 
ply. The  value  of  this  necessary  article  has  also  been  lately  more 
and  more  recognized  in  connection  with  the  question  of  life  and 
health,  and  most  houses  are  well  supplied  with  every  convenience 
connected  with  water.  Let  it,  however,  be  well  understood  that  no 
house,  however  suitable  in  other  respects,  can  be  desirable  if  this 
grand  means  of  health  and  comfort  are  in  the  slightest  degree  scarce 
or  impure.  No  caution  in  that  can  be  too  great  to  see  that  it  is 
pure  and  good,  as  well  as  plentiful ;  for,  knowing  as  we  do,  that  not 
a  single  dish  of  our  daily  food  is  prepared  without  it,  the  importance 
of  its  influence  on  the  health  of  the  inmates  of  a  house  cannot  be 
over-rated. 

VENTILATION  is  another  matter  which  must  not  be  overlooked.  In 
a  general  way,  enough  air  is  admitted  by  the  cracks  around  the  doors 
and  windows  ;  but  if  this  is  not  the  case,  the  chimneys  will  smoke, 
and  other  plans,  such  as  the  placing  of  a  plate  of  finely  perforated 
zinc  or  wire  gauze  in  the  uppermost  part  of  the  window,  must  be 
used.  Cold  air  should  never  be  admitted  under  the  doors,  at  the 
.bottom  of  a  bed-room,  unless  it  be  close  to  the  fire  or  stove,  for  it 
will  flow  along  the  floor  toward  the  fire-place,  and  thus  leaving  the 
foul  air  in  the  upper  part  of  the  room  unpurified,  cooling  at  the  same 
time,  unpleasantly  and  injuriously,  the  feet  and  legs  of  the  inmates. 
The*  rent  of  a  house,  it  has  been  said,  should  not  exceed  one-eighth 
of  the  whole  income  of  its  occupants,  and  we  are  disposed  to  assent 
to  this  estimate  as  a  general  rule. 

EVERY  HOUSE  SHOULD  HAVE  A  BATH-ROOM. — What  luxury  is 
superior  to  a  good  bath  !  Immersing,  showering  or  throwing  the 
water  over  the  body  with  the  hand,  it  cheers,  soothes,  refines  and 
elevates  both  soul  and  body.  Keeping  the  body  clean  is  only  dis- 
charging our  first  duty  to  ourself.  It  produces  such  a  happy  feeling, 


THE    HUSBAND. 


THE  HUSBAND. 

Custom  entitles  you  to  be  considered  the  "  lord  and  master  " 
over  your  household ;  but  do  not  assume  the  master  and  sink  the 
lord.  Remember  that  noble  generosity,  forbearance,  amiability  and 
integrity  are  among  the  more  lordly  attributes  of  man.  As  a  hus- 
band, therefore,  exhibit  the  true  nobility  of  man,  and  seek  to  govern 
your  own  household  by  the  standard  of  high  moral  excellence.  A 
domineering  spirit,  a  fault-finding  petulance,  impatience  at  triflng 
delays  and  the  exhibition  of  unworthy  passions  at  the  slightest  prov- 
ocation can  add  no  laurels  to  your  own  lordly  brow,  impart  no  sweet- 
ness to  home  and  call  forth  no  respect  from  those  by  whom  you  may 
be  surrounded.  It  is  one  tiling  to  be  a  master — another  thing  to  be 
a  man.  The  latter  should  be  the  husband's  aspiration,  for  he  who 
cannot  govern  himself  is  illy  qualified  to  govern  another. 

When  once  a  man  has  established  a  home  his  most  important 
duties  have  fairly  begun.  The  errors  of  youth  may  be  overlooked; 
want  of  purpose,  and  even  of  honor,  in  his  earlier  days,  may  be  for- 
gotten ;  but  from  the  moment  of  his  marriage  he  begins  to  write  his 
mdellible  history  ;  not  with  pen  and  ink,  but  by  actions  by  which  he 
must  ever  afterwards  be  reported  and  judged.  His  conduct  at 
home;  his  solicitude  for  his  family;  the  training  of  his  children; 
his  devotion  to  his  wife  ;  his  regard  for  the  great  interests  of  eter- 
nity—  these  are  the  tests  by  which  his  worth  will  ever  afterwards  be 
estimated  by  all  who  think  or  care  about  him.  These  will  determine 
his  position  while  living  and  preserve  his  memory  when  dead.  He 
uses  well  or  ill  the  brief  space  allotted  to  him,  out  of  alt  eternity,  to 
build  up  a  fame  founded  on  the  most  solid  of  foundations — private 
worth — and  God  and  man  will  judge  him  accordingly. 

HINTS  FOR  WIVES. 

Don't  imagine  when  you  have  obtained  a  husband  that  your  per- 
sonal neatness  and  deportment  may  be  relaxed.  Then,  in  reality, 
is  the  time  for  you  to  exhibit  superior  taste  and  excellence  in  the 
cultivation  of  your  dress  and  the  becoming  elegance  of  your  ap- 
pearance. If  it  required  some  little  care  to  foster  the  admiration  of 

lover,  how  much  more  requisite  it  is  to  keep  yourself  lovely  in  the 
eyes  of  him  to  whom  there  is  no  privacy  or  disguise  —  your  hourly 
companion  !  And  as  it  was  due  to  your  lover  that  you  should  al- 
ways present  to  him  who  proposed  to  wed  and  cherish  you  a  neat 

nd  ladylike  appearance,  how  much  more  is  he  entitled  to  a  similar 
f  respect,  who  has  kept  his  promise  with  honorable  fidelity 


I 
HINTS   FOR   WIVES.  33 

and  linked  all  his  hopes  of  future  happiness  with  yours !  If  you 
manage  these  matters  without  appearing  to  study  them,  so  much 
the  better.  Some  husbands  are  impatient  of  the  routine  of  the 
toilet,  and  not  unreasonably  so.  They  possess  activity  and  energetic 
spirits  which  are  sorely  disturbed  by  the  waste  of  time.  Some  wives 
have  discovered  an  admirable  facility  in  dealing  with  this  difficulty ; 
and  it  is  a  secret  which,  having  been  discovered  by  some,  may  be 
known  to  all,  and  it  is  well  worth  the  finding  out. 

It  is  astonishing  how  much  the  cheerfulness  of  a  wife  contributes 
to  the  happiness  of  home.  She  is  the  sun,  the  center  of  a  domestic 
system,  and  her  children  are  like  planets  around  her,  reflecting  her 
rays.  How  merry  the  little  ones  look  when  the  mother  is  joyous  and 
good  tempered,  and  how  easily  and  pleasantly  her  household  labors 
are  overcome !  Her  cheerfulness  is  reflected  everywhere.  It  is 
seen  in  t^ie  neatness  of  her  toilet,  in  the  order  of  her  table,  and  even 
in  the  seasoning  of  the  dishes.  We  remember  hearing  a  husband 
say  that  he  could  always  gauge  the  temper  of  his  wife  by  the  quality 
of  her  soups  and  the  lightness  and  delicacy  of  her  pastry.  When  ill- 
temper  pervades,  the  pepper  is  dashed  in  a  cloud,  perchance  the 
pepper  box  is  included  as  a  kind  of  diminutive  thunderbolt.  The 
salt  is  all  in  heaps,  and  the  spices  seem  to  betake  themselves  to  one 
spot  in  a  pudding,  as  if  dreading  the  frowning  face  above  them.  If 
there  be  a  husband  who  could  abuse  the  smiles  of  a  really  good- 
tempered  wife,  we  should  like  to  look  at  him  !  No,  no ;  such  a 
phenomenon  does  not  exist  (?).  Among  the  elements  of  domestic 
happiness  the  amiability  of  the  wife  and  mother  is  of  the  utmost 
importance;  it  is  one  of  the  best  securities  for  the  happiness  of 
home. 

THE  MISTRESS. 

A  house-keeping  account  book  should  invariably  be  kept,  and 
kept  punctually  and  precisely— to  write  or  make  an  entry  of  the 
amount  spent  each  day,  let  it  be  ever  so  small,  arranged  under  their 
specific  heads,  of  butcher,  baker,  grocer,  sundries,  etc. ;  and  thus  it 
will  be  seen  how  much  was  paid  for  each  article,  and  one  month's 
expenses  can  be  compared  with  another,  and  thus  you  can  judge 
how  much  you  can  afford  to  spend  by  comparing  it  with  what  you 
have  in  hand.  Truer  words  were  never  written  than  "  No  man  is 
rich  whose  expenditures  exceed  his  means,  and  no  man  is  poor  whose 
incomings  exceed  his  outgoings."  If  the  establishment  be  large,  it 
is  advisable  for  the  mistress  to  examine  her  accounts  regularly  even  if  a 
house-keeper  is  kept ;  then  any  increase  of  expenditure  may  be  ex- 
plained which  may  be  apparent,  and  the  house-keeper  have  the  sat- 


I 

34  THE.  MISTRESS. 

isfaction  of  knowing  whether  her  efforts  to  manage  her  department 
economically  have  been  successful.  It  is  one  of  the  mistress'  duties  to 
exercise  her  judgment  and  discrimination  in  engaging  servants.  It  is 
best  for  her  to  know  something  of  the  servant  she  engages ;  and 
when  engaging  a  servant  it  is  best  to  make  her  understand  before- 
hand what  is  expected  of  her  and  committing  it  to  writing,  giving 
the  servant  a  copy  of  the  agreement  and  keeping  one  herself,  every- 
thing being  plainly  stated  and  understood  by  both.  By  pursuing 
this  course  there  will  not  be  so  much  contention  in  domestic  matters, 
which  should  be  deprecated,  as  well  as  a  constant  change  of  ser- 
vants. Among  the  great  masses  of  society,  there  being  exceptional 
cases,  it  is  best  not  to  choose  a  servant  from  the  lower  class. 

In  obtaining  a  servant's  character,  it  is  best  to  have  an  interview 
with  her  former  mistress,  and  then  you  will  be  assisted  in  your  decis- 
ions of  the  faithfulness  of  the  servant,  whether  she  is  honest  and  her 
moral  character  good.  The  proper  observance  of  courtesy 
being  character,  in  order  to  prevent  any  unreasonable  intrusion  on 
the  part  of  a  stranger,  your  inquiries  should  be  very  minute,  so  that 
you  may  avoid  disappointments  and  trouble  by  knowing  the  weak 
points  of  your  domestics.  This  is  no  unreasonable  requisition,  for 
in  traveling  it  is  expected  that  persons  will  carry  letters  of  introduc- 
tion or  commendation.  In  all  kinds  of  business  it  is  expected;  and 
no  one  will  for  a  moment  employ  a  person  that  is  the  least  light- 
fingered,  tardy,  or  unfit  for  business;  and  he  must  bring  letters  from 
business  places  in  which  he  has  been  engaged,  or  from  competent 
and  reliable  persons,  setting  forth  what  they  are,  etc.  How  much 
more  important  in  a  domestic,  who  is  in  your  bed-rooms,  among 
your  children,  in  your  kitchen,  etc.  When  this  is  done  there  will  be 
less  domestic  discontent,  both  on  the  part  of  the  employer  and  em- 
ployed. 

The  treatment  of  servants  is  of  the  highest  possible  moment,  as 
well  to  the  mistress  as  to  the  domestics  themselves.  On  the  head 
of  the  house  the  servants  will  naturally  fix  their  attention,  and  if  they 
perceive  that  the  mistress'  conduct  is  regulated  by  high  and  correct 
principles,  they  will  not  fail  to  respect  her.  If,  also,  a  benevolent 
desire  is  shown  to  promote  their  comfort,  at  the  same  time  that  a 
steady  performance  of  their  duty  is  exacted,  then  their  respect  will 
not  be  unmingled  with  affection,  and  they  will  still  be  more  solicitous 
to  continue  to  deserve  their  favor. 

The  mistress  should  think  of  the  late  hours,  and  often  of  those  of 
incessant  toil,  that  her  domestics  are  required  to  keep,  and  never 
withhold  from  them  their  full  wages  a  single  day,  for  they  may  be 
needed  by  their  dependent  family,  or  a  sick  mother  and  father.  Even 
the  perquisites  they  may  get  from  visitors  and  others  will  be  poor 


THE  MISTRESS.  35 

compensation  for  the  constant  wear  and  tear  of  health  and  the  use 
of  clothing,  for  they  are  compelled  to  appear  genteel  while  in  service. 
When  these  matters  are  duly  considered  there  will  be  found  useful 
and  attached  servants.  The  sensible  master  and  kind  mistress  know 
that  if  servants  depend  on  them  for  the  means  of  living,  in  their  turn 
they  are  dependent  on  their  servants  for  many  of  the  comforts  of 
life,  and  that  in  using  a  proper  amount  of  care  in  choosing  servants, 
and  making  slight  excuses  for  the  short-comings  and  imperfections 
ot  human  nature,  they  will,  except  in  some  cases,  be  tolerably  well 
served,  and  in  a  large  majority  of  cases  surround  themselves  with 
attached  and  faithful  domestics. 

Servants  should  look  forward  only  to  obtain  the  good  will  of  their 
employers.  By  so  doing  they  will  be  much  happier,  and  find  that  it 
is  much  better  for  them,  and  "ye  masters  give  unto  your  servants 
that  which  is  just  and  equal,  knowing  that  ye  also  have  a  master  in 
heaven." 

Neither  in  the  kitchen  nor  in  any  other  part  of  the  household 
should  the  authority  of  the  mistress  be  disputed.  The  mistress, 
amid  all  her  temptations  to  use  angry  or  cutting  words,  should  not 
for  a  moment  yield  to  them,  but  remember  that  she  is  superior,  and 
that  pleasant  words  and  respectful  language  to  an  inferior,  or  to  one  in 
a  subordinate  position,  with  a  polite  and  dignified  bearing,  will  exert 
a  most  happy  influence,  securing  her  respect  and  a  guarantee  that 
she  will  not  have  to  repeat  her  polite  requests  often ;  her  lady- 
hood will  be  elevated  in  the  eyes  of  her  servants,  while  a  corre- 
sponding sympathetic  refinement  will  be  exerted  on  them. 
A  mistress  should  never  give  her  orders  in  a  haughty,  chilling  manner, 
which  her  subordinate  cannot  return  without  a  loss  of  her  place. 
Perhaps  she  may  have  an  aged  mother  or  other  dear  ones  looking 
to  her  for  the  bread  which  her  hard  earnings  furnish  them,  for  ser- 
vants are  not  solely  machines, or  automatons,  without  feelings;  yet  at 
the  same  time  they  should  feel  and  know  that  they  are  hired  to  do 
work,  and  should  endeavor  to  perform  their  tasks  to  the  best  of  their 
ability,  and  as  nearly  in  the  manner  they  are  required  to  do  them ; 
and  they  should  never  be  wasteful  in  anything,  and  should  always 
give  the  mistress  a  cheerful  reception  whenever  she  comes  into  the 
kitchen,  and  be  allowed  to  direct  new  dishes,  and  even  to  share  the 
labors  of  their  preparation. 

The  time,  number  and  manner  of  receiving  visits  by  servants  had 
better  be  decided  by  arrangements  between  the  employer  and  em- 
ployed. The  mistress  should  teach  and  see  that  her  children  are 
polite  and  kind  in  their  manner  and  speech  to  her  servants,  and  not 
unreasonable  in  their  demands  upon  their  time  and  labor,  and  that 
they  play  no  tricks  upon  them,  and  do  nothing  to  impede  their  work, 


36  THE    MISTRESS. 

so  that  the  meals  may  always  be  ready  for  papa  when  he  comes 
home,  and  that  the  performance  of  the  duties  of  one  hour  may  not 
be  crowded  into  that  of  another.  This  will  enhance  the  esteem  of 
her  domestics  for  herself  and  family,  and  make  them  more  faithful 
and  happier  in  her  service,  while  her  children  will  learn  the 
golden  rule,  from  practice  as  well  as  from  precept,  for  the  good  that 
is  learned  in  the  domestic  circle  is  never  forgotten ;  neither  can 
scores  of  years,  nor  the  circle  of  the  globe,  obliterate  it ;  and  thus 
the  comfort  and  happiness  of  children  and  domestics  will  be  aug- 
mented. » 

COMFORTABLE  COOKING. 

Strive  mightily,  but  eat  and  drink  as  friends. — [SHAKESPEARE. 

It  is  not  everybody  in  the  world  who  knows  what  a  good  dinner 
is  or  deserves  to  have  one.  Sonre  people  talk  about  cooking  as  if 
it  degraded  them  and  seem  to  think  that  no  part  of  them  is  worth 
nourishment  but  what  they  have  the  impudence  to  call  their  minds. 
I  don't  want  them  to  read  my  book,  because  I  know  that  there's  a 
great  connection  between  beef  and  bones,  but  the  man  who  dislikes 
the  one,  really  has  a  very  small  share  of  the  other.  Almost  all  peo- 
ple whose  work  makes  the  world  happier  or  better  are  fond  of  good 
living.  The  church,  the  bar,  the  stage,  the  sculptor's  atelier  and 
painter's  studio,  all  send  forth  their  vivants  of  the  first  water.  It  is 
for  dear  little  brisk  women  who  I  want  to  make  happy  that  I  write  ; 
for  generous,  hospitable,  kindly,  home-loving  fellows  that  I  am  going 
to  cater,  and  I  should  not  wonder  if  we  find  ourselves  very  good 
friends  in  a  little  while  by  the  aid  of  the  ^printing  press.  It  is  more  de- 
rogatory to  the  dignity  of  human  nature  to  convert  bad  material  into 
good  food  than  it  is  to  convert  clay  into  bricks,  and  iron  into  bridges. 
On  the  contrary,  if  the  choice  has  to  be  made 'between  the  brick 
and  the  beef,  I  know  well  enough  which  most  decisions  would  se- 
lect. A  young  wife  cannot  do  better  than  devise  the  daintiest  little 
dishes  her  means  will  buy  for  her  husband.  A  young  mother  cannot 
do  better  than  concoct  the  most  health-giving  food  for  her  child,  and 
the  matron  of  any  age  should  feel  proud  and  happy  when  men  sit 
around  her  table  visibly  refreshed  and  invigorated  by  the  food  she 
gives  them. 

Good  cooking  is  a  much  more  common  accomplishment  among 
rich  people  than  poor  ones.  If  a  man  goes  to  India,  to  Norway  or 
to  our  Western  prairies  for  sport,  he  must  needs  cook  his  own  din- 
ner or  do  without  it,  and  the  gourmand  who  desires  a  new  flavor 
often  tries  his  hand  at  creating  it.  Stewed  pigeons  was  a  favorite 
dish  with  Louis  XVIII.,  of  France,  before  the  Commune.  You 


COMFORTABLE    COOKING.  37 

might  see  any  day  in  the  Tuilleries  the  gold  stew-pans  he  used  in 
the  preparation.  George  IV.,  of  England,  invented  the  best  punch 
know  to  mankind.  The  famous  Prince  Talleyrand  left  in  print  the 
finest  mode  of  cooking  a  pheasant,  and  the  "Omelette  au  Thea" 
owes  its  origin  to  no  less  a  person  than  Cardinal  Richelieu. 

The  way  to  a  man's  heart  is  through  his  stomach  or  palate.  Give 
him  nice  things  that  agree  with  him  and  he  will  be  as  good  as  gold. 
Real  Christianity  and  a  good,  healthy  appetite  are  usually  found  to- 
gether. If  you  want  to  cook  well  and  make  people  comfortable  by 
your  cooking,  you  must  remember  that  three  things  are  absolutely 
necessary  before  you  can  turn  out  the  simplest  dish.  Those  three 
things  are  perfect  cleanliness,  a  careful  measurement  of  everything 
you  use  and  a  strict  attention  to  time ;  therefore,  buy  a  cheap  clock 
tor  the  kitchen,  a  common  pair  ot  scales  and  two  or  three  simple 
measures — quart,  pint  and  half-pint  measure — and  a  graduated  glass 
for  tablespoon  and  teaspoonfuls.  I  will  use  no  vague  terms,  and  if 
you  do  exactly  as  I  tell  you  the  thing  will  turn  out  so  well  that  all 
your  friends  will  compete  for  invitations  for  dinner. 

REMARKS  ON  DINNER  PARTIES. 

As  this  is  to  be  a  very  economical  chapter,  devoted  to  cheap 
dishes  and  savings  of  all  kinds,  I  hope  that  no  person  will  read  it 
who  thinks  wastefulness  and  generosity  mean  the  same  thing.  You 
will  be  shown  the  great  value  in  a  housekeeping  sense  of  the  re- 
mains of  your  dinner,  and  be  told  what  to  do  with  everything  that 
was  left  from  the  bills  of  fare  for  eight  persons.  By  that  time  you 
will  find  that  it  is  true  economy  to  give  a  little  dinner  party  now  and 
then,  because  you  will  have  as  many  nice  things  afterwards,  which 
would  not  have  occurred  to  you  to  make  for  yourself.  In  fact,  a 
young  couple  could  do  no  better  so  soon  as  they  have  fairly  settled 
down  to  housekeeping  than  to  invite  a  few  friends  to  dinner  as  often 
as  they  conveniently  can.  The  return  invitations  will  enable  them 
to  show  their  accomplishments  in  society  and  to  keep  them  au  cou- 
rant  with  the  world.  The  friendship  that  springs  from  the  mutual 
interchange  of  courtesies  and  hospitalities  rapidly  developes  into  a 
warm  feeling,  and  in  a  pecuniary  sense  it  will  "be  found  that  -the  lib- 
eral hand  maketh  rich. 

There  is  no  reason  why  a  young  wife  who  lives  in  three  or  four 
rooms  and  has  only  one  servant  and  a  limited  income  should  hesi- 
tate to  give  a  little  dinner,  such  as  has  been  described  in  the  first 
chapter.  One-half  the  things  can  be  rooked  the  day  before  and 
will  be  the  better  for  it.  The  soup,  entrees,  custards,  pudding  and 
tarts  may  be  so  served,  leaving  only  the  venison,  the  chickens,  the 


38  REMARKS   ON    DINNER    PARTIES. 

fish,  sauces  and  fondue  for  the  day  itself.  Of  these,  nearly  all  can 
be  cooking  while  the  hostess  dresses  to  receive  her  guests.  Any  sauces 
that  are  not  immediately  wanted  can  be  kept  in  perfect  condition  by 
standing  in  stew-pans  in  which  they  have  been  made,  in  sauce-pans 
of  boiling  water,  or  better  still,  in  a  Bain  Marie,  which  is  a  shallow 
bin  or  copper  trough  made  to  stand  at  the  back  of  the  stove  and 
holding  boiling  water.  In  this  receptacle  for  hot  water  everything 
may  be  safely  placed  until  it  is  required,  for  the  simple  reason  that 
as  the  water  can  never  get  hotter  than  the  boiling  point  (212  degrees 
Fahrenheit),  and  as  the  contents  of  every  sauce-pan  will  always  be 
40  degrees  cooler  than  the  boiling  water  by  which  they  are  sur- 
rounded, no  chemical  changes  can  take  place. 

A  neat,  careful  housekeeper  who  will  take  the  trouble  to  read  care- 
fully the  directions  given  for  each  dish,  and  use  her  wits,  will  easily  see 
how  to  manage  her  time  and  her  dishes  so  as  to  serve  her  dinner 
easily  with  the  assistance  of  one  servant  only,  and  tolerably  well 
without  any  servant  at  all.  However,  before  showing  what  to  do 
with  the  remainder  of  the  dinner,  a  word  or  two  may  be  said  about 
the  vegetables  proper  to  be  served  with  it  and  the  directions  for 
cooking  them.  See  recipes  for  potatoes,  mashed  and  brown  mashed, 
asparagus  and  green  peas. 

A  CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 

Christmas  has  ever  been  held  a  fitting  season  for  creature  comforts 
of  all  kinds.  In  cozy,  good  old-fashioned  houses  the* prudent  matron 
makes  bountiful  preparation  for  half  the  year  through.  The  pickles 
and  preserves  are  made  in  the  summer  time,  and  are  all  carefully 
planned  to  be  in  good  condition  by  Christmas.  The  home-made 
wine  and  beer  are  racked  and  fined  and  got  ready  for  use  on  the 
same  festive  time,  and  for  weeks  before  the  day  there  is  an  air  of 
pleasant  anticipation  of  the  occasion.  It  is  indeed  a  time  when 
extra  care  and  extra  plenty  are  truly  desirable  ;  it  is  the  one  period 
in  the  year  when  people  in  middle  life,  long  parted  from  friends  of 
their  youth  by  the  world's  accidents,  make  sure  of  seeing  some  of 
them  again.  The  children  are  home  from  distant  schools ;  those 
who  are  married  must  needs  eat  their  Christmas  dinner  under  the 
old  roof — at  least  until  their  own  covers  too  many  olive  branches  to 
be  hastily  forsaken ;  and  hospitality  on  that  day  generally  includes 
two  or  three  of  the  lonely  ones  of  earth,  who,  but  for  the  fore- 
thought of  friends,  would  have  their  sad  recollections  for  company. 
So  the  kind  housewife,  on  "  hospitality  intent,"  has  much  to  per- 
form, to  do  the  honors  of  her  home,  as  everybody  has  some  little 
individual  taste  she  can  gratify,  and  the  more  thoroughly  she  tries  to 
do  this  the  happier  she  will  be. 


A   CHRISTMAS    DINNER.  39 

There  is  no  reason  why  very  much  should  be  left  to  be  done  on 
the  day  itself.  Mince-meat  for  pies  may  be  made  months  before 
and  kept  in  a  good  stone  jar  witn  a  closely  fitting  stone  cover.  The 
plum  pudding  may  also  have  been  made  and  boiled  at  least  a  week 
previously.  The  mince  pies  should  be  made  the  day  before;  so 
should  the  force  meats  for  stuffing  turkeys,  and  all  the  gravies  and 
many  of  the  sauces.  The  roasting  of  meat  must,  of  course,  be  done 
on  the  day,  and  the  pudding  will  want  an  hour's  hard  boiling,  the 
gravies  warming  up,  and  so  on ;  but  there  is  no  reason  why  the 
work  of  entertaining  a  large  party  should  not  be  spread  out  over 
several  previous  days,  not  one  of  which  will  be  over-burthened. 
Now  for  the  Christmas  dinner,  from  which,  if  you  are  wise,  you 
will  omit  both  soup  and  fish,  for  two  reasons  (both  are  excellent 
ones) :  the  first  is  that  the  children,  young  and  old,  should  all  be  at 
table  if  possible,  and  they  do  not  care  for  or  know  how  to  manage 
soup ;  and  the  second  is  the  comfort  of  the  servants.  If,  according 
to  the  old  homely  fashion — never  so  good  a  fashion  as  on  this,  the 
best  of  all  days, — they  eat  at  your  table,  and  do  not  change  about ; 
if  you  are  able  to  have  a  number  of  them  and  they  dine  away,  which 
in  that  case  is  of  course  only  proper,  then  it  will  be  well  to  give 
them  as  little  trouble  as  you  can.  However,  the  dinner  to  be  de- 
scribed is  a  wholesome,  plentiful  family  meal,  to  which  father  and 
mother  and  children,  friends  and  relatives,  may  all  sit  down  together, 
and  so  may  the  servants  if  only  one  or  two.  The  table,  when  spread 
for  a  large  dinner  party,  such  as  will  be  described,  shall  have  at  the 
top  a  large  roast  turkey,  stuffed  with  fine  force-meats  and  garnished 
with  sausages — what  our  English  ancestors  called  "  an  alderman  in 
chains,"  and  flanked  by  a  tureen  of  delicate  snow-white  bread  sauce 
on  the  left  side  and  another  of  brown  gravy  on  the  right.  At  the 
bottom  a  fine  piece  of  roast  beef  done  to  a  turn,  smoking 
hot,  on  a  hot  dish,  with  a  well  to  it  to  hold  the  gravy,  and  supported 
on  the  right  side  by  a  tureen  of  hot  horse-raddish  sauce,  on  the 
other  by  a  dish  of  light  Yorkshire  pudding.  On  the  right  side  of 
the  table  should  be  a  couple  of  boiled  fowls  with  a  tureen  of  parsley 
sauce  behind  them,  and  on  the  left  side  a  boiled  ham,  or  better  still, 
a  leg  of  pickled  pork.  With  this  course  of  savory  dishes,  mealy, 
boiled  potatoes,  two  delicately  brown  ones,  which  have  been  baked 
with  the  beef  for  half  an  hour  or  so  ;  one  of  nicely  mashed  potatoes 
and  of  potatoes  in  their  jackets,  which  old-fashioned  folks  always 
like  ;  in  addition,  there  must  be  boiled  cabbage,  cauliflower,  aspara- 
gus, peas  and  mashed  turnips,  beets,  salsify  and  carrots.  So  equip- 
ped, you  are  abundantly  prepared  to  entertain  twenty  or  more  guests, 
but  if  your  party  be  very  large  have  a  second  turkey  ready  to  be 
brought  on  the  table  when  the  first  is  used,  You  may  not  want  it, 


4-O  A    CHRISTMAS    DINNER. 

but  no  matter ;  it  is  just  as  good  cold.  If  all  these  things  are  hot 
and  well-served,  your  guests  will  be  delightfully  comfortable,  and 
your  first  course  will  last  along  time,  plain  though  your  fare  may  be. 
When  this  course  is  over,  all  the  dishes  must  be  removed,  the  cloth 
brushed  and  the  table  laid  with — at  the  top — a  large,  handsome 
Christmas  plum  pudding,  with  a  tureen  of  nice  wine  sauce.  At  the 
bottom,  two  dishes  of  minced  pies,  one  warmed  over  and  one  cold, 
on  one  side,  a  dish  of  fritters.  In  the  center  of  the  table  set  cheese, 
celery  and  salad,  and  the  dinner  will  go  delightfully  till  the  cloth  is 
removed  and  dessert  comes  in.  This  may  be  turned  into  a  set  of 
three  courses  by  prefixing  here  soup,  boiled  turbot  or  salmon  and 
two  or  three  side  dishes. 

DISHES  MADE  FROM  THE  REMAINS  OF  A  CHRIST- 
MAS DINNER. 

The  cold  venison  will  make  hashed  venison,  steaks,  venison  cut- 
lets, minced  venison,  stewed  venison,  venison  patties,  and  help  to 
make  a  nice  game  pie.  Lastly,  the  merest  scraps  of  each  of  the 
foregoing  viands  will  make  the  most  delicious  risoles. 

The  cold  plum  pudding  may  be  warmed,  but  will  be  better  served 
cold  on  a  glass  dish  in  neat  pieces  about  the  size  of  two  fingers,  or 
it  may  be  broiled,  fried,  baked  and  treated  in  several  ways  here- 
after to  be  described.  It  will  keep  a  long  time  in  a  dry,  cold  place. 

The  apple  tarts  and  custards  will  give  no  trouble  at  all,  being  a 
great  deal  more  dainty  than  when  hot.  The  plain  cold  potatoes 
will  make  "pomme  de  terre  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,"  and  form"  the  body 
of  the  mayonaise  or  salad  dressing,  and  the  cold  mashed  are  invalu- 
able for  risoles  or  for  serving  with  entrees. 

SALADS. — To  use  the  cold  smelts  or  cold  fish  of  any  kind,  take 
the  heads  and  tails  off  the  fish,  split  thefti  open,  take  out  the  bones 
and  divide  the  flesh  into  small  pieces  or  flakes ;  then  take  one  large 
lettuce  head  or  two  small  ones,  about  twenty  raddishes,  one  head 
of  endive,  one  small  head  of  watercress,  a  handful  of  any  small 
salad  and  four  large  slices  of  boiled  beet-root,  wash  the  green  vege- 
tables in  lukewarm  salt  water  for  half  an  hour.  Take  off  the  large 
outer  leaves  of  the  lettuce  and  the  coarse  stalks  of  the  watercress; 
chop  the  whole  into  small  pieces,  adding  the  beet-root,  and  put 
them  into  a  clean  cloth  to  drain.  When  quite  dry  add  the  cold 
fish,  arrange  neatly  on  a  dish  or  in  a  salad  bowl  and  pour  over  it 
following  salad  dressing  :  Take  two  large  potatoes  or  four  small  cold 
ones,  beat  them  to  a  paste  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  add  to  them  the 
yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 


A   CHRISTMAS    DINNER.  4! 

two  heaped  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  finely-mixed 
onions,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  the  finest  olive  oil,  and  beat  all  to  a 
paste  with  the  spoon.  When  quite  smooth  add  gradually  eight  ta- 
blespoonfuls of  vinegar,  stirring  constantly  all  the  time,  which  will 
make  your  salad  dressing  rather  thicker  than  cream.  If  not  thin 
enough,  a  little  more  vinegar  may  be  added  Last  of  all,  to  this 
quantity  put  one  tablespoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  and  when  the 
mixture  is  poured  over  your  salad  you  may  have  no  fear  of  the  re- 
sult. 

To  CURRY  THE  COLD  RABBIT. — Take  one  large  onion,  chop  it 
small ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  two  ounces  of  butter ;  let  it  stew 
gently  until  it  assumes  a  gold  color  ;  then  add  the  pieces  of  rabbit 
that  were  left,  just  as  they  are,  and  let  them  get  quite  hot  through ; 
next  mix  one  tablespoonful  of  the  curry  powder  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour,  with  enough  of  the  gravy  left  the  day  before  to  make 
them  into  a  smooth  paste  ;  add  this  to  the  rabbit  and  the  onion ;  stir 
all  well  over  the  above  for  five  minutes ;  pour  in  the  remainder  of 
the  gravy ;  let  the  whole  simmer  for  five  minutes  more,  and  it  is 
ready.  Arrange  some  plain  boiled  rice  around  the  edge  of  a  dish — 
pour  the  curry,  which  will  be  a  good  gold  color,  into  the  center  and 
at  once. 

To  ragout  the  cold  chicken,  carve  the  chicken  into  neat  joints, 
reserving  all  the  scraps,  bones  and  trimmings  for  after-use ;  make 
2  ounces  of  butter  hot  in  a  frying-pan  ;  fry  the  pieces  of  chicken 
over  a  sharp  fire  for  five  minutes  till  they  are  a  light  brown ;  lay 
them  on  a  napkin  to  drain.  Take  enough  of  your  strained  soup  to 
cover  them  ;  thicken  it  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  i  of  mushroom 
catsup  and  i  of  port  wine  ;  boil  it ;  arrange  the  pieces  of  chicken  in 
a  dish ;  pour  the  gravy  over  them  and  place  around  a  few  small 
sippets  of  crisp  dry  bread. 

For  the  hashed  venison,  place  the  jar  containing  the  slices  of  ven- 
ison and  the  gravy  (as  directed  for  ragout  of  chicken),  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour;  take  the  venison 
out  and  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish  ;  put  the  hot  gravy  into  a  small  enameled 
sauce-pan  ;  add  i  tablespoonful  currant  jelly  and  i  of  port  wine  to 
it ;  give  it  one  boil,  stirring  all  the  time  to  melt  the  jelly ;  pour  the 
gravy  boiling  hot  over  the  venison  and  serve  at  once.  The  cold 
mashed  potatoes  of  the  day  before  maybe  arranged  like  a  wall 
around  the  dish  and  baked  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour. 


Note. — If  the  rabbit  had  not  been  already  stewed  a  very  different 
process  would  be  followed.  The  flavors  acquired  in  stewing  render 
nothing  necessary  for  the  curry  but  the  above. 


42  A   CHRISTMAS   DINNER. 

Either  the  chicken  ragout  or  the  hashed  venison  may  be  poured  into 
the  center,  to  the  exceeding  gratification  of  both  the  sight  and  the 
palate. 

To  dress  cold  boiled  potatoes  a  la  moitie  d'hotel,  put  2  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  deep  frying-pan  or  a  stew-pan  and  add  to  it  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  gravy,  i  of  minced  parsley,  i  teaspoonful  of  minced  lemon 
peeling  and  i  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  ;  stir  over  the  fire  till 
the  butter  is  melted.  Take  the  cold  potatoes  (about  i  pound  all 
together),  cut  them  into  slices  about  one-third  of  an  inch  thick,  lay 
them  in  this  mixture,  cover  the  pan  and  let  them  stew  gently  for  one- 
quarter  of  an  hour. 

Now,  having  got  through  our  bill  of  fare,  we  will  just  follow  its 
various  items  to  the  end  of  their  career:  In  the  first  place  you  made 
3  quarts  of  soirb  stock,  of  which  2  quarts  were  served  in  the  shape 
of  Julienne  soup  and  the  third  used  for  gravies  and  sauces.  Of 
the  2  quarts  sent  to  the  table  you  will  probably  find  quite  i  pint  left 
in  the  tureen,  for,  as  ordinary  soup  plates  hold  only  half  a  pint,  it 
follows  that  if  your  tureen  be  empty,  you  must  have  committed  the 
mistake  of  filling  them  too  full,  or  your  guests  must  have  been 
gouche  enough  to  require  helping  twice,  neither  of  which  occasions 
was  likely  to  have  happened  in  these  days  of  refinement.  This 
shall  be  strained  away  from  the  vegetables  as  soon  as  it  comes  from 
the  table  and  put  in  a  clean  jar  in  the  safe.  It  will  make  a  capital 
gravy  for  your  rechoufees.  Of  the  smelts  you  will  have  at  least  four 
remaining.  These  must  be  laid  aside  on  a  clean  plate.  Of  the 
side-dishes  or  entrees  there  will  probably  be  one-half  of  each  left. 
These  should  be  lifted  on  to  separate  plates,  and  the  gravy  belonging 
to  each  strained  and  set  aside  in  clean  jars.  There  will  also  be  at 
least  one  fowl  untouched  and  most  likely  a  part  of  another,  about  8 
pounds  of  venison  and  a  bone  or  two  and  a  quantity  of  the  sauces 
belonging  to  each.  Don't  be  alarmed  at  the  apparent  waste:  don't 
throw  anything  away  ;  put  each  sauce  separately  in  a  jar  ;  the  fowls, 
duck  and  pudding  on  clean  plates,  and  let  the  whole  remain  till  they 
are  wanted.  For  the  venison  you  must  pursue  another  rule.  Decide 
how  many  people  you  will  have  to  dinner  on  the  morrow ;  cut  a 
handsome  slice  for  each,  just  as  it  comes  warm  from  the  table ;  lay 
the  cut  slices  in  a  jar  that  has  a  close-fitting  lid  ;  pour  in  enough  of 
the  warm  gravy  to  cover  them,  and  put  the  jar  away.  The  rest  of 
the  joint  must  be  put  on  a  dry  dish,  and  the  remaining  gravy,  if 
any,  set  aside  by  itself.  The  cold  fish  will  make  a  capital  salad  or 
mayonaise.  The  cold  rabbit  will  make  a  delightful  fricasee,  a  curry 
or  a  pie.  The  cold  pigeons  may  just  be  warmed  up  by  placing 
them  in  a  jar  and  boiling  the  jar  in  water  for  twenty  minutes,  boiling 
the  gravy  separately  and  pouring  it  over  them, 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS.  43 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

The  chief  cook  in  the  Pliny  days  of  Roman  voluptuousness  had 
a  salary  of  about  $4,000  a  year,  and  Mark  Antony  made  a  pres- 
ent of  a  city  to  the  cook  who  prepared  a  supper  that  pleased 
Cleopatra.  It  will  always  occur,  particularly  in  large  families, 
that  either  on  the  dish  or  on  the  plates  the  refuse  bones  and 
fragments  of  meat  are  left.  Every  fragment  of  these  should  be 
gathered  up.  Nothing  in  the  way  of  animal  food  should  be  thrown 
away — such  as  heads,  necks  and  feet  of  poultry,  trimmings  of  nice 
meat,  etc. ;  vegetables,  slices  of  stale  bread,  etc.  If  these  are  not 
called  for  in  the  household,  they  can  be  used  in  making  soup 
for  the  sick  and  poor,  who  will,  in  the  majority  of  cases,  be 
thankful  for  this  token  of  thoughtfulness  on  the  part  of  the  propri- 
etress of  the  house.  Beside  this,  the  skimmings  of  meat  should  be 
saved,  and  sometimes  the  boilings,  which  should  be  well  seasoned; 
may  prove  very  grateful  to  the  family,  and  the  bones,  scraps,  vegeta- 
bles can  be  added  to  it.  This  liquor,  when  boiled  down  to  a  proper 
consistency,  will  form  a  good  foundation  for  many  kinds  of  gravies, 
as  well  as  soups.  In  order  to  extract  all  the  juices  from  the  bones, 
it  is  best  to  boil  them  first,  then  strain  off  into  a  soup  kettle,  and  if 
any  portion  of  meat  remains  on  the  bones  cut  off  the  bits  and 
add  whatever  else  you  have  with  them  into  the  kettle.  Then  stew  or 
boil  slowly  from  3  to  4,  or  even  6  hours.  It  is  best  to  do  this  the 
day  before  you  wish  to  use  it.  It  can  be  easily  warmed  over,  or 
brought  to  a  boil,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  the  table. 

Cloves  were  but  little  known  to  the  ancients.  Pliny  appears  to 
be  the  only  writer  who  mentions  them  ;  and  he  says  vaguely  that 
some  were  brought  to  Rome  very  similar  to  grains  of  pepper,  but 
somewhat  larger;  that  they  were  only  to  be  found  in  India,  in  a 
wood  consecrated  to  the  gods,  and  that  they  served  in  the  manufac- 
ture of  perfumes.  The  clove  is  the  unexpanded  flower  of  the 
coryophillus  aromaticus,  a  handsome  branching  tree,  a  native  of  the 
Malacca  Islands.  The  clove  has  a  considerable  resemblance  to  a 
nail,  whence  they  take  their  name  from  the  Latin  clovus,  or  the 
French  clou,  both  meaning  a  nail.  As  in  the  case  of  the  nutmeg, 
to  secure  a  monopoly  of  the  cloves  and  that  the  cultivation  of  them 
might  be  confined  to  Amboya,  their  chief  island,  the  Dutch  bribed 
the  surrounding  chiefs  to  cut  down  all  the  trees  found  elsewhere,  and 
thus  keep  the  means  of  supply  wholly  to  themselves,  by  eradicating 
it  from  every  other  island;  but  it  has  now  become  naturalized  in 
both  the  Indies,  as  well  as  in  many  of  the  South  Sea  Islands  and  all 
warm  countries. 


44  SOUPS  AND  BROTH&. 

Basil  is  a  native  of  the  East  Indies.  It  now  grows  well  in  temper- 
ate climates  as  an  annual,  as  well  as  in  warm  countries.  It  is  highly 
aromatic,  having  a  perfume  greatly  resembling  cloves.  Its  leaves 
are  used  in  soups  and  salads  by  French  cooks,  with  whom  it  is  a  great 
favorite. 

Coriander  enters  largely  into  the  composition  of  curry  powder  with 
temeric.  It  came  originally  from  hot  countries.  But  it  will  grow 
luxuriantly  in  moderate  climates,  and  is  a  valuable  commodity  for 
the  use  of  confectioners  and  druggists,  and  is  a  most  valuable  car- 
minative. Its  tender  leaves  are  highly  aromatic,  and  are  employed 
as  a  seasoning  for  soups  and  salads.  Its  seeds  are  used  in  large 
quantities  for  the  purposes  of  distillation,  and  also  as  seasoning  for 
.pies,  cakes,  sauces,  etc.  It  grows  well  in  Virginia. 

Chevil. — Although  the  roots  of  this  plant  are  poisonous,  its 
leaves  are  tender  and  are  used  as  salads.  Among  the  ancients 
it  was  made  a  relishing  dish,  when  prepared  with  oil,  wine  and 
gravy.  It  has  beautiful  frizzled  leaves,  and  is  cultivated  in  Savoy, 
is  a  close  headed,  wrinkled  leaved  cabbage,  sweet  and  tender, 
especially  in  the  middle  leaves. 

Vegetables  add  much  to  the  flavor  of  soups  and  broth.  All  fat 
should  be  removed  while  cooking.  Vegetables  should  be  taken  out 
of  the  soup,  that  is,  if  preferred. 

SOUP  STOCKS. — Allow  i  Ib.  of  beef  for  2  quarts  of  water.  Who- 
ever is  engaged  in  the  important  task  of  cooking  or  preparing  a  din- 
ner, it  is  highly  necessary  to  place  all  the  ingredients  to  be  used 
on  the  table  before  commencing  the  operation,  so  that  no  timewill  be 
lost  after  using  one  article  to  look  out  for  another. 

THE  MEDIUM  STOCK. — Four  Ibs.  knuckles  of  veal  or  beef  or  two 
Ibs.  of  each ;  any  bones  or  trimmings  of  poultry,  or  fresh  meat,  1-4 
Ib.  of  lean  bacon  or  ham,  2  ozs.  of  butter,  2  large  onions  each  stuck 
with  3  cloves,  i  turnip,  3  carrots,  i  head  of  celery,  3  lumps  of  sugar, 
2  ozs.  of  salt,  1-2  teaspoonful  of  whole  pepper,  i  large  blade  of  mace, 
i  bunch  of  savory  herbs,  4  quarts  and  1-2  pint  of  cold  water.  Cut 
up  the  meat  and  bacon  or  ham  into  pieces  of  about  3  inches  square, 
rub  them  on  the  bottom  of  the  stew  pan,  put  in  1-2  pint  of  water,  the 
meat  and  all  the  other  ingredients.  Cover  the  stew  pan  and  place 
it  on  a  sharp  fire,  occasionally  stirring  its  contents ;  when  the  bottom 
of  the  pan  becomes  covered  with  a  pale  jelly-like  substance  add  the 
4  quarts  of  cold  water  and  simmer  very  gently  for  5  hours.  As  we 
have  said  before,  do  not  let  it  boil  quickly. 

This  (medium)  stock  is  the  basis  of  many  of  the  soups  after- 
wards mentioned  and  will  be  found  quite  strong  enough  for  ordinary 
purposes.  Boil  5  1-2  hours. 

WHITE  STOCK,  to  be  used  in  the  preparation  of  white  soups. — 4 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS.  45 

knuckles  of  veal,  any  poultry  trimmings,  4  slices  of  lean  ham,  three 
carrots,  3  onions,  i  head  of  celery,  12  pepper  corns,  2  02.  of  salt,  i 
blade  of  mace,  i  bunch  of  herbs,  i  oz.  of  butter,  4  quarts  of  water. 
Cut  the  veal  up  and  put  it  with  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the 
poultry  and  the  ham  into  the  -stew  pan,  which  has  been  rubbed  with 
the  butter.  Moisten  with  1-2  pint  of  water  and  simmer  till  the  gravy 
begins  to  flow,  then  add  the  4  quarts  of  water  and  the  remainder  of 
the  ingredients.  Simmer  for  5  hours.  After  skimming  and  strain- 
ing it  carefully  through  a  very  fine  hair  sieve  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 
Boil  5  1-2  hours. 

N.  B.  When  stronger  stock  is  desired  double  the  quantity  of  veal, 
or  put  an  old  fowl  in.  The  liquor  in  which  a  young  turkey,  goose 
or  any  other  fowl  has  been  boiled  is  an  excellent  addition  to  all  white 
stock  or  soup. 

RICH  STRONG  STOCK. — Four  Ibs.  of  shin  of  beef,  4  Ibs,  of  knuckle 
of  veal,  1-2  Ib.  of  good  lean  ham,  any  poultry  trimmings,  2  ounces 
of  butter,  3  onions,  3  carrots,  3  turnips,  (if  the  weather  is  hot  the 
turnips  should  be  omitted  lest  they  ferment),  i  head  of  celery,  a  few 
chopped  mushrooms  when  obtainable,  i  tomato,  i  bunch  of  savory 
herbs,  not  forgetting  the  parsley,  i  1-2  ounce  of  salt,  3  lumps  of  su- 
gar, 12  white  pepper  corns,  6  cloves,  3  small  pieces  of  mace,  four 
quarts  of  water.  Line  a  delicately  clean  stew  pan  with  the  ham  cut 
in  thin,  broad  slices,  carefully  trimming  off  all  its  rusty  fat,  cut  up  the 
beef  and  veal  in  pieces  about  3  inches  square  and  lay  them  on  the 
ham,  set  it  on  the  stove  and  draw  it  down  and  stir  frequently  ;  when 
the  meat  is  equally  browned  put  in  the  beef  and  veal  bones,  the  poul- 
try trimmings  and  pour  in  the  cold  water.  Skim  well  and  occasion- 
ally add  a  little  cold  water  to  stop  its  boiling  until  it  becomes  quite 
clear,  then  put  in  all  the  other  ingredients  and  simmer  very  slowly 
for  5  hours ;  do  not  let  it  come  to  a  brisk  boil,  that  the  stock  be  not 
wasted,  that  the  color  may  be  preserved.  Strain  through  a  very  fine 
hair  sieve  or  cloth,  and  the  stock  will  be  fit  for  use.  Boil  5  hours. 

BROWNING  FOR  STOCK. — Two  oz.  powdered  sugar  and  1-2  pint 
water.  Place  the  sugar  in  a  stewpan  until  it  becomes  black,  then 
add  the  water  and  let  it  dissolve.  Cook  closely  and  use  a  few  drops 
when  required.  N.  B. — In  France  onions  burnt  are  made  use  of 
for  the  purpose  of  browning.  As  a  general  rule  the  process  of 
browning  is  to  be  discouraged,  as  it  is  apt  to  impart  a  slightly  unpleas- 
ant flavor  to  the  stock,  and,  consequently,  to  the  soups  made  from  it. 

To  CLARIFY  STOCK. — The  whites  of  2  eggs,  1-2  pint  water,  2 
quarts  stock.  Supposing  that,  by  accident,  the  soup  is  not  quite  clear 
and  that  its  quantity  is  2  quarts,  take  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  carefully 
Separated  from  the  yolks,  whisk  them  well  together  with  the  water 
and  add  gradually  the  2  quarts  of  boiling  stock,  still  skimming.  Place 


4o  SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

the  soup  on  the  fire,  and  when  boiling  and  well  skimmed,  whisk  the 
eggs  with  it  till  nearly  boiling  again ;  then  draw  it  from  the  fire 
and  let  it  settle  until  the  whites  of  the  eggs  become  separated.  Pass 
through  a  fine  cloth,  and  the  soup  should  be  clear.  N.  B. — The 
rule  is,  that  all  soups  should  be  of  a  light  straw  color,  and  should 
not  savor  too  strongly  of  the  meat,  and  that  all  white  or  brown  thin 
soups  should  have  no  more  consistency  than  will  enable  them  to 
adhere  slightly  to  the  spoon  when  hot.  All  juices  should  be  some- 
what thicker. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. — Cut  a  chicken  into  small  pieces,  remove  the 
skin  and  any  fat  that  is  visible  ;  boil  it  for  20  minutes  in  a  quart  of 
water  with  a  blade  of  mace,  a  slice  of  onion  and  10  grains  of  white 
pepper.  Simmer  slowly  till  flavor  is  good;  beat  i  oz.  sweet  almonds 
with  a  little  water  and  add  it  to  the  broth  ;  strain  it,  and  when  cold 
take  off  the  fat. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. — Skin  the  body  and  legs  of  a  chicken  and  put 
all  into  water  and  boil  with  i  blade  of  mace,  a  small  onion  and  12 
grains  of  black  pepper.  Simmer  till  the  broth  acquires  a  pleasant 
flavor. 

EEL  BROTH. —Set  on  with  i  1-2  quarts  of  water,  i  Ib.  of  well 
cleaned  eels,  some  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  a  small  onion,  a  few  grains 
of  black  pepper ;  let  them  boil  slowly  till  the  eels  come  to  pieces 
and  the  broth  good.  Add  salt  and  strain  it.  When  done  the  whole 
should  make  i  1-2  quarts. 

FISH  BROTH  is  very  nutricious  and  light  of  digestion.  It  may  be 
made  of  almost  any  kind  of  fish,  the  more  thick-skinned  and  glutin- 
ous the  better.  The  following  are  the  directions:  Take  1-2  Ib.  of 
any  kind  of  fish,  set  them  on  with  3  pints  of  water,  an  onion,  a  few 
pepper  corns  and  some  parsley  ;  let  it  simmer  till  the  fish  is  broken 
and  the  liquor  reduced  1-2  ;  then  add  salt  and  strain  it.  Some  peo- 
ple like  the  addition  of  a  spoonful  of  vinegar  or  catsup,  and  if  the 
bowels  be  in  a  healthy  condition  there  is  no  objection  to  it. 

A  BROTH  MADE  QUICKLY. — Take  off  the  fat  and  skin  of  a  bone  or 
two  of  a  neck  or  loin  of  mutton,  set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  that 
has  a  cover,  with  3-4  of  a  pint  of  water.  Trie  meat  should  first  be 
beaten  and  cut  in  small,  thin  bits  ;  add  a  bit  of  thyme  or  parsely, 
and,  if  desired,  a  part  of  an  onion.  Let  it  boil  quickly ;  skim  it 
closely  ;  take  off  the  cover,  if  likely  to  be  too  thin,  else  cover  it ;  1-2 
an  hour  is  sufficient  to  cook  it. 

BROTH  OF  MUTTON,  VKAL  OR  BEEF. — Broth  and  soup  made  of 
different  meats  are  more  nourishing,  as  well  as  better  flavored.  To 
remove  the  fat,  take  it  off  when  cold  as  clean  as  possible.  If  there 
be  any  remaining,  lay  a  bit  of  blotting  paper  or  cap  paper  on  the 
broth  when  in  the  basin,  and  it  will  take  up  every  particle.  Take  i 


SOUPS  AND  feROTHS.  47 

lb.  of  backbone  of  veal,  i  Ib.  of  backbone  of  mutton,  2  Ibs.  of  lean 
beef,  sweet  herbs,  12  pepper  corns,  put  into  a  clean  saucepan  with 
5  quarts  of  water,  boil  gently  to  3  quarts.  When  cold  remove  the 
fat.  If  desired,  add  an  onion. 

For  thick  mutton  broth,  proceed  as  for  thick  beef  tea,  omitting 
the  rice.  A  tablespoonful  of  burnt  sugar  and  water  will  give  a  rich 
color  to  the  broth. 

MOTHER'S  VEAL  SOUP. — Boil  a  small  piece  of  veal  in  2  quarts  of 
water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  when  the 
veal  is  done  remove  it  from  the  water  and  put  in  the  water  4  or  5 
onions  sliced,  boil  1-2  hour,  then  stir  into  this,  sifting  through  the 
fingers,  some  corn  meal  while  it  is  boiling  ;  stir  it  constantly.  Pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.  It  should  not  be  thicker  than  rich  cream. 

CALVES'  FEET  BROTH. — Take  2  calf  s  feet,  2  oz.  of  veal  and  2  oz. 
of  beef,  the  bottom  of  a  small  loaf,  2  or  3  blades  of  mace,  1-2  nut- 
meg braised,  a  little  salt,  in  3  quarts  of  water,  boil  3  pints  ;  strain 
and  remove  the  fat. 

BEEF  TEA. — Take  i  1-2  Ibs.  of  the  best  beefsteak  and  cut  it  into 
very  small  pieces,  then  put  them  into  an  earthern  jar  without  any 
water,  or  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  the  meat,  or  a  wide- mouthed 
glass  bottle  set  in  a  vessel  of  cold  water  and  brought  to  a  boil ;  place 
the  stone  jar  on  a  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil  for  3  hours,  when 
all  the  nutriment  of  the  meat  will  have  been  extracted ;  or  let  the 
glass  bottle  in  the  vessel  remain  on  the  stove  and  used  when  required 
by  the  patient.  Both  jar  and  bottle  should  be  covered  with  a  cloth 
tied  over  them,  or  with  their  tops  fastened  closely.  Season,  if  ap- 
proved, but  it  is  frequently  only  salted.  It  is  best  to  make  the  plain 
jelly  the  day  before  wanted. 

SCOTCH  BROTH. — This  favorite  Scotch  dish  is  generally  made  with 
the  liquor  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled.  Put  1-2  pint  or  i  cup  of 
oat  meal  into  a  porringer  with  a  little  salt,  if  there  be  not  enough  in 
the  broth,  of  which  add  as  much  as  will  mix  it  to  the  consistency  of 
harty  pudding  or  a  little  thicker;  lastly  take  a  little  of  the  fat  that 
swims  on  the  broth  and  put  it  on  the  crowdie  and  eat  in  the  same 
way  as  you  would  hasty  pudding. 

CLAM  SOUP. — Lay  out  1-2  lb.  of  pork ;  to  this  add  2  Ibs  of  potatoes 
and  2  onions,  and  boil  together.  When  the  potatoes  are  done  open 
and  add  one  can  of  clams,  five  crackers  and  one  pint  of  milk.  Let 
it  simmer  five  minutes  and  serve. 

MRS.  MINER'S  CLAM  SOUP. — Take  30  good-sized  clams,  boil  in  as 
little  water  as  will  open  the  shells,  strain  the  liquor  and  add  equal 
quantity  of  sweet  milk ;  boil  together.  Season  with  pepper  and 
whole  cloves,  rubbed  together  after  adding  butter  and  flour  to 
thicken  the  milk  ;  chop  the  clams  fine,  and  just  before  serving  add 
them  to  the  boiling  liquor. 


48  SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

CLAM  SOUP — (Mrs.  Carpenter). — Cut  salt  pork  in  very  small  squares 
and  fry  them  a  light  brown  ;  add  i  large  or  2  small  onions  cut  very 
fine  and  cook  about  10  minutes  ;  add  2  quarts  of  water  and  i  of 
raw  potatoes  sliced ;  let  it  boil.  Then  add  i  can  of  clams ;  mix  i 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  water,  put  it  with  i  pint  of  milk  and  pour 
into  the  soup,  and  let  it  boil  5  minutes.  Beef,  pepper,  salt  and 
Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste. 

VIRGINIA  OYSTER  SOUP. — Take  2  quarts  of  strong,  clear  broth, 
whether  of  fish  or  meat;  add  to  it  the  hard  part  of  a  quart  of  fresh, 
juicy  oysters,  previously  well  pounded  in  a  mortar  and  the  hard 
boiled  yolks  of  6  eggs  ;  simmer  for  half  an  hour  and  strain  into  a 
fresh  stewpan,  in  which  have  the  oysters  cleared  of  the  beards  and 
very  nicely  washed  from  shells  and  sands.  Season  with  mace  and 
cayenne  and  let  the  oysters  simmer  for  8  minutes,  when  the  yolks  of 
3  eggs  well  beaten  may  be  stirred  into  a  little  soup  and  gradually 
mix  with  the  whole  quantity,  throwing  aside  the  stewpan  and  con- 
stantly stirring  lest  they  curdle.  When  smooth  and  thick  serve  in  a 
tureen  and  stir  the  soup  for  a  few  minutes  to  prevent  curdling.  Any 
other  flavor  that  is  wished  may  be  given  to  the  luscious  soup. 

OYSTER  SOUP. — Strain  the  liquor  from  100  oysters  and  carefully 
remove  any  bits  of  shell  or  particle  of  seaweed.  To  every  pint  of 
oyster  liquor  allow  an  equal  quantity  of  rich  milk.  Season  it  with 
white  pepper  and  some  blades  of  mace.  Add  a  head  of  celery 
washed,  scraped  and  minced  small.  Put  the  whole  into  a  soup  pot 
and  boil  and  skim  it  well.  When  it  boils  put  in  the  oysters.  Also 
1-4  of  a  Ib.  of  fresh  butter;  divide  into  4  pieces  each  piece  rolled  in 
flour.  Boil  6  eggs  hard  and  crumble  the  yolks  into  the  soup.  After 
the  oysters  are  in  give  them  but  one  boil  up,  just  sufficient  to  plump 
them.  If  boiled  longer  they  will  shrink  and  shrivel  and. lose  their 
taste.  Take  them  all  out  and  set  them  away  to  cool.  When  the 
soup  is  done  place  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen  some  square  pieces 
of  nicely  toasted  bread  cut  into  dice,  and  pour  on  the  soup  ;  grate  in 
a  nutmeg  and  then  add  the  oysters.  Serve  it  up  very  hot. 

OYSTER  SOUP. — Put  into  some  good  mutton  broth  2  large  onions, 
3  blades  of  mace  and  some  black  pepper.  When  strained  pour  it 
on  150  oysters  cleaned  from  the  shell  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour.  Simmer  gently  for  1-4  of  an  hour  and  it  will  be  done. 

LOBSTER  SOUP. — Take  out  the  meat  from  the  claws,  bodies  and 
tails  of  6  small  lobsters  ;  remove  the  brown  and  bag  in  the  head  ; 
beat  the  fins,  chine  and  small  claws  in  a  mortar ;  boil  it  gently  in  2 
quarts  of  water,  with  the  crumbs  of  a  French  roll,  some  white  pep- 
pers, salt,  2  herrings  or  a  small  portion  of  bloater  paste,  a  large 
onion,  some  sweet  herbs  and  a  little  piece  of  lemon  peel  grated  will 
add  to  the  goodness  of  the  whole.  Then  strain  it  off,  beat  the  spawn 


SOUPS  AND   BROTHS.  49 

in  a  mortar  with  a  little  butter,  1-4  of  a  nutmeg  grated  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour,  to  which  add  a  quart  of  cream.  Cut  the  tails  in 
pieces  and  boil  them  with  the  cream  and  soup.  Serve  it  with  force 
meat  balls  made  of  the  residue  of  the  lobsters,  mace,  pepper,  salt, 
some  bread  crumbs  and  i  or  2  eggs ;  the  balls  should  be  made  of 
flour  and  heated  in  the  soup. 

CRAB  SOUP — (Creole). — Take  12  or  more  young,  raw  and  fat  crabs, 
open  and  clean  them  and  cut  them  in  two.  Parboil  and  pick  the 
meat  from  the  claws  and  the  fat  from  the  top  shell;  scald  1 8  ripe 
tomatoes  ;  skin  and  squeeze  the  pulp  from  the  seed  and  chop  it  fine, 
scald  the  seeds  and  juice;  use  it  for  making  the  soup.  Put  3  or  4 
large  onions  into  the  soup  pot  for  a  short  time,  i  clove  of  garlic  in 
i  spoonful  of  butter,  2  spoonfuls  of  lard.  After  stewing  a  few  min- 
utes add  the  meat  from  the  crab  claws,  then  the  crabs,  and  last  the 
fat  from  the  back  shell  of  the  crab,  sift  over  it  grated  bread  crumbs 
or  cracker  dust.  Season  with  salt,  black  pepper,  parsley,  sweet  mar- 
joram, thyme,  1-2  teaspoonful  each  of  lemon  juice  and  the  peel  of  a 
lemon,  put  in  the  water  with  which  the  seed  were  scalded  and  boil  it 
moderately  i  hour.  The  onions  should  be  boiled  a  little  before 
used.  Any  fish  of  firm  flesh  can  be  used  instead  of  the  crab. 

SHRIMP  SOUP. — Two  quarts  of  fish  stock,  2  pints  of  shrimps,  the 
crumbs  of  a  french  roll.  Tomato  or  mushroom  catsup,  to  taste, 
i  blade  of  mace,  1-4  pint  vinegar,  a  little  lemon  peel,  pick  out 
the  tails  of  the  shrimps  or  not,  put  the  bodies  in  a  stew  pan 
with  i  blade  of  mace.  1-4  pint  vinegar  and  the  same  quantity  of 
water;  stew  them  for  10  minutes  and  strain  off  the  liquor.  Put 
the  fish  stock  into  a  stew  pan,  add  the  strained  liquor,  pound  the 
shrimps  with  the  crumbs  of  a  roll  moistened  with  a  little  of  .the 
soup,  rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve  and  mix  them  by  degrees 
with  the  soup,  add  catsup  to  taste  with  a  little  lemon  sauce  ;  when 
it  is  well  cooked  put  in  some  picked  shrimps,  let  them  get  thor- 
oughly hot  and  serve.  If  not  thick  enough  put  in  a  little  butter 
and  flour.  Cook  i  hour.  Seasonable  at  any  time.  Sufficient  for 
8  persons. 

FISH  Sxock  (for  Fish  Soups.) — Twolbs.  of  veal  (these  can  be  omit- 
ted), any  kind  of  white  fish,  trimmings  of  fish  which  are  to  be 
dressed  for  table,  2  ounces,  the  rind  of  1-4  lemon,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  2  carrots,  2  quarts  of  water.  Cut  the  fish  up  and  put  it  with 
the  other  ingredients  into  water,  simmer  for  2  hours,  skim  the  liquor 
carefully  and  strain  it ;  when  a  richer  stock  is  wanted  fry  the  vege- 
tables and  fish  before  adding  the  water.  Simmer  2  hours. 

N.  B.  Do  not  make  fish  stock  long  before  it  is  wanted,  as  it 
spoils. 

EEL  SOUP. — To  2  quarts  of  water  put  3  Ibs.  of  small  eels,  a  crust 


5O  SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

of  bread,  3  blades  of  mace,  some  whole  peppers,  i  onion,  a  piece 
of  carrot,  some  parsley  ;  cover  the  whole  close  and  stew  it  till  the 
fish  is  broken,  and  then  strain  off.  Toast  some  bread,  cut  it  into 
small  pieces  and  pour  the  soup  on  it  in  a  boiling  state;  1-4  pint  of 
rich  cream  may  be  added  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth 
in  it. 

GOOSE  SOUP. — In  France,  where  soups  form  a  considerable  portion 
of  the  diet,  goose  soup  is  much  appreciated,  and  if  carefully  prepared 
is  excellent.  The  goose  must  not  be  too  fat.  Truss  it  if  for  roast- 
ingvand  put  it  into  a  stew  pan  with  3  quarts  beef  stock,  the  gib- 
lets or  a  slice  of  lean  ham,  a  leek,  an  onion,  a  carrot  and  a  head 
of  celery  ;  simmer  very  gently,  removing  the  scum  for  4  hours, 
then  take  out  the  goose  and  keep  it  hot,  and  the  giblets,  which 
may  be  stirred,  can  be  used  for  potting,  strain  the  soup,  season  it 
with  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  salt;  simmer  one-half  hour,  line  the 
bottom  of  the  tureen  with  hard  toasted  bread,  then  add  2  glasses 
of  Madeira  to  the  soup ;  pour  it  over  the  toast  in  the  tureen. 
The  goose  may  be  served  with  onion  sauce  or  any  of  the  sauces  for 
boiled  goose. 

TURKEY  BONE  SOUP. — Take  the  turkey  bones  and  stew  for  one 
hour  in  enough  water  to  cover  them,  then  stir  in  a  little  dressing  and 
beaten  eggs  ;  take  from  the  fire,  and  when  the  water  has  ceased  boil- 
ing add  some  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  thicken  with  a  very  little  flour 
or  corn  starch  stirred  in  sweet  milk. 

A  LARGER  .QUANTITY  OF  INGREDIENTS  AND  FOR  SEVERAL  PERSONS. 
Three  Ibs.  of  beef,  i  bone,  51-2  quarts  water,  2  ozs.  salt,  2  carrots, 
10  ozs. ;  2  large  onions,  10  ozs. 

*NOTE — Should  any  remain  after  serving  this  soup  it  could  be  saved 
to  add  to  the  sauce  when  the  beef  is  warmed  up.  Break  the  bones 
when  the  soup  is  made  and  put  the  marrow  with  the  fat  skimmed 
from  the  soup — all  of  it ;  then  stew  it  down  ;  all  the  sediments  will 
go  to  the  bottom  and  the  grease  will  cease  to  crack  when  all  the  wa- 
ter is  out  and  the  grease  clarified;  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve 
and  put  away  for  frying. 

Ox  TAIL  SOUP. — Take  2  ox  tails,  cut  them  at  the  Joints,  and 
then  cut  them  in  small  pieces  as  near  of  a  size  as  possible;  blanch, 
dra>n  and  put  them  in  a  stew  pan  with  i  gallon  of  rich  broth,  one 
onion,  with  2  cloves  stuck  in  it ;  i  fagot;  boil,  then  simmer  till  the 
tails  are  cooked,  turn  20  small  carrots  into  a  pan  shape,  boil  them  in 
the  soup  and  glaze  them.  Boil  and  glaze  20  small  button  onions; 
when  the  tails  are  cooked  drain  in  a  collander,  clean  each  piece,  put 
them  in  a  soup  tureen  together  with  the  carrots  and  onions,  pour 
over  2  quarts  of  boiling  veal  soup  and  serve. 

SOUP  WITH  MARROW  DUMPLINGS. — Beat  together  1-2  Ib.  pure 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS.  51 

melted  beef  marrow,  3  eggs  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth  ;  add  to  this  3  pints  of  milk  bread,  of  which  the  crust  has  been 
removed  and  have  soaked  in  water  and  then  pressed  out  together 
with  some  nutmeg  and  salt.  Out  of  this  composition  make  with 
the  hands  small,  round  dumplings  about  the  size  of  hazel  nuts,  put 
them  in  i  1-2  gallons  liquid  from  soup  stock,  boil  the  whole 
slowly  for  1-4  hour,  when  the  soup  can  be  dished  up. 

CLEAR  MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP. — Prepare  as  above,  omitting  the 
flour ;  strain  the  broth  and  clarify  it  with  i  Ib.  of  veal  pounded  in  a 
mortar,  with  2  whites  of  eggs ;  finish  the  soup  as  in  the  preceding 
lecipe. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP  (the  Slock.) — One  calf  s  head,  2  gallons  water, 
2  ounces  butter,  2  onions,  2  turnips,  2  carrots,  2  heads  celery,  bunch  of 
herbs,  7  Ibs.  beef,  8  cloves,  2  shallots,  i  teaspoonful  black  pepper,  i 
teaspoonful  allspice  For  this  rich  and  useful  soup  always  required 
at  a  handsome  dinner,  several  tried  and  approved  receipts  are  given- 
Take  a  calf's  head  with  the  skin  on,  remove  the  brains  and  lay  them 
aside  ;  wash  the  head  in  cold  water,  in  which  it  may  be  for  i  hour ; 
then  put  it  into  a  stew  parf  with  2  gallons  of  cold  water  and  let  it 
boil  gently  for  i  hour,  removing  the  scum  gradually;  then  take  it  out 
of  the  broth  and  let  it  remain  to  be  1-2  cold,  when  the  meat  must  be 
cut  from  the  bones  into  square  pieces  of  about  an  inch ;  the  skin, 
which  is  the  prime  part,  should  have  the  fat  left  adhering  to  it;  the 
tongue  must  be  cut  up  in  the  same  way. 

Put  into  a  stock  pot  2  ounces  of  butter,  and  2  good  sized  onions 
sliced  ;  shake  them  over  the  fire  till  brown,  then  place  over  them  5 
Ibs.  of  coarse,  lean  beef  and  pour  over  1-2  of  the  broth  in  which 
the  head  has  been  boiled.  Let  it  boil  till  all  the  scum  be  removed, 
then  add  2  carrots,  2  turnips,  2  heads  of  celery,  8  cloves,  2  shallots 
and  a  bunch  of  savory,  thyme,  marjoram  and  basil,  with  3  sprigs  of 
fresh  parsley  and  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  i  teaspoonful 
allspice.  Add  the  bones  and  the  trimmings  of  the  head,  and  the 
remainder  of  the  broth,  and  let  all  stew  gently  for  4  hours,  then  strain 
off.  This  is  the  stock. 

THICKENING. — Six  ounces  butter,  6  ounces  flour,  1-4  lemon  peel, 
1-4  ounce  shallois,  1-4  ounce  sage,  1-4  ounce  savory.  Put  6  ounces 
of  butter  into  a  clean  stew  pan  and  gradually  blend  with  it  6  ounces 
of  flour;  smooth  it  by  adding  1-2  pint  of  the  stock.  In  another  pan 
put  1-2  pint  of  stock  with  1-4  ounce  each  of  grated  lemon  peel, 
shallots,  sage  and  savory.  Boil  for  1-2  hour,  strain,  and  rub  the  herbs 
through  a  tammy  cloth;  then  blend  the  liquor  with  the  thickening 
and  strain  all  into  the  stock.  Let  it  simmer  over  the  fire  for  an  hour 
with  the  squares  of  meat  added,  and  then  make  ready  the  seasoning, 
as  below. 


52  SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

SEASONING. — Two  teaspoonfuls  lemon  juice,  2  teaspoonfuls  mush- 
room catsup,  i  teaspoonful  essence  of  anchovy,  a  pinch  of  cayenne, 
thin  peel  of  i  lemon,  i  pint  of  Madeira.  The  seasoning  to  be  added 
must  be  2  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  2  of  mushroom  catsup  and 

1  of  anchovies ;  the  thin  peel  of  a  lemon  and  a  pint  of  Madeira  or 
sherry.     Simmer  5  minutes,  take  out  the  lemon  peel,  then  add  the 
quenelles  as  for  turtle  soup,  and  if  required  brain  balls  and  egg  balls, 
as  in  the  following  receipts  and  the  soup  is  ready  for  the  tureen.     It 
can  be  reduced  by  boiling  to  4  or  5  quarts. 

MULLAGATAWNY  SOUP,  or  MuLLAQHEE  TAWNiE  SOUP. — This  cel- 
ebrated soup,  in  such  great  favor  with  all  who  have  resided  long  in 
India,  owes  its  peculiar  flavor  to  the  currie  powder  with  which  it  is 
invariably  seasoned,  .though  it  may  be  varied  by  attention  to  the 
following  tried  receipts:  Ingredients — veal,  4  Ibs. ;  black  pepper,  12 
corns;  allspice,  12  corns;  water,  2  quarts,  4  onions,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  currie  powder,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  i  teaspoonful  salt.  This 
is  Dr.  Kitchmier's  good  though  old  fashioned  receipt.  Cut  4  Ibs. 
of  a  breast  of  veal  into  pieces  about  2  inches  by  i,  put  the  trimmings 
into  a  stew  pan  with  12  corns  of  black  pepper,  12  corns  allspice  and 

2  quarts  water ;  when  it  boils  skim  it  and  let  it  continue  to  boil  i  1-2 
hours,  then  strain  it  off.     In  the  meantime  fry  the  squares  of  veal 
and  4  onions  in  butter  till  they  are  nicely  browned,  put  the  broth  to 
them,  put  it  on  the  fire,  skim  it  clean,  let  it  simmer  1-2  hour,  then 
mix  2  tablespoonfuls  currie  powder,  2  spoonfuls  flour  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  with  as  much  cold  water  as  will  make  a  baiter ;  stir  this  into 
the  soup  and  let  it  simmer  another  1-2  hour,  then  serve  with  boiled 
rice. 

MULLAGATAWNY  SOUP  FOR  FAMILTRS. — Veal  3  Ibs.,  3  quarts  of 
water,  i  carrot,  i  turnip,  i  bunch  herbs,  2  onions,  10  white  pepper 
corns,  i  fowl  or  rabbit,  2  spoonfuls  currie  powder,  2  spoonfuls  brown 
flour,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  i  teaspoonful  salt,  i  spoonful  lemon  juice, 
2  spoonfuls  cream.  Take  a  knuckle  of  veal,  about  3  or  4  Ibs.  in 
weight,  break  the  bones  and  put  it  in  a  stew  pan  with  three  quarts  of 
water,  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  2  onions  and  10  or 
12  pepper  corns  ;  stew  for  3  hours,  then  strain  off  the  broth  ;  take  a 
fowl  or  a  rabbit,  skin  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  These  must  be 
fried  in  butter  till  brown  and  put  into  the  broth,  which  must  stew  for 
another  hour,  then  mix  in  a  basin  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  browned 
before  the  fire,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  good  cream. 
Rub  it  quite  smooth  and  mix  by  degrees  with  the  soup,  which  must 
simmer  1-2  hour  longer  and  then  rubbed  through  a  sieve  and  served 
with  boiled  rice. 

GAME  SOUP. — A  very  good  soup  may  be  made  in  the  season  by 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS.  53 

taking  all  the  breasts  of  any  cold  birds  which  have  been  left  pre- 
ceding day.  First  pound  the  meat  in  a  marble  mortar ;  then  break 
the  legs  and  other  bones  in  pieces,  and  boil  them  in  some  broth  for 
an  hour;  do  the  same  with  6  turnips,  mash  them  and  strain  them 
through  a  hair  sieve  with  the  meat  that  has  been  pounded  ;  strain  off 
the  broth  in  the  same  manner ;  then  put  it  into  the  soup  kettle  near 
the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  add  thereto  the  prepared  eggs  and 
cream,  stirring  the  same  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Be  careful  not 
to  let  it  boil,  otherwise  it  will  curdle. 

PIGKON  SOUP. — Take  8  pigeons,  cut  down  2  of  the  oldest  and  put 
them  with  the  necks,  pinions,  livers  and  gizzards  of  the  others  into 
4  quarts  of  water  ;  let  it  boil  till  the  substance  is  extracted,  and  strain 
it;  season  the  pigeons  with  mixed  spices  and  salt;  and  truss  them 
as  for  stewing  ;  pick  and  wash  clean  a  handful  of  parsley,  cloves, 
young  onions  and  a  good  deal  of  spinach  ;  chop  them  ;  put  'these 
in  a  frying  pan  with  1-4  ib.  butter,  and  when  it  boils  mix  in  a  hand- 
ful of  bread  crumbs  ;  keep  stirring  them  with  a  knife  till  of  a  fine 
brown ;  boil  the  whole  pigeons  till  they  become  tender  in  the  soup, 
with  the  herbs  and  fried  bread.  If  the  soup  be  not  sufficiently 
highly  seasoned  add  mixed  spices  and  salt. 

PEPPER  For — (West  Indian). — This  should  be  made  in  an  earthen 
pot,  which  always  remains  by  the  side  of  the  fire ;  have  the  contents 
simmer,  but  do  not  boil.  These  should  consist  of  an  equal  admix- 
ture of  fish,  flesh  and  vegetables  seasoned  with  chilis  or  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt;  the  only  attention  it  requires  being  occasional 
skimming  and  the  addition  of  a  little  water  when  it  gets  too  dry. 
Anything  and  everything  may  be  put  into  it ;  and  as  it  should  at  all 
times  be  simmering  by  the  fire,  a  good  meal  is  always  ready  for  any 
guest  that  may  chance  to  come  uninvited. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. — Beat  up  an  egg  and  add  to  it  as  much  flour 
as  will  make  a  very  stiff  dough.  Roll  it  out  in  a  very  thin  sheet, 
flour  it  and  roll  it  up  closely,  as  you  would  do  a  sheet  of  paper  ; 
then,  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  it  off  with  short  rings  about  like  cab- 
bage for  slaw.  Flour  these  cuttings  to  prevent  them  from  adhering 
to  each  other,  and  then  add  them  to  your  soup  while  it  is  boiling. 
Boil  10  minutes. 

BEEF  NOODLE  SOUP. — To  i  slightly  beaten  egg,  i  dessert  spoon- 
ful water,  a  little  salt,  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Work 
it  thoroughly  for  10  or  12  minutes;  add  flour  when  necessary.  When 
soft  cut  off  as  much  as  is  necessary  at  a  time  ;  roll  as  thin  as  possi- 
ble, sprinkle  with  flour,  and  beginning  at  one  side,  roll  it  into  a  rather 
light  roll ;  then,  with  a  sharp  knife,  begin  at  one  end  and  cut  it  into 
very  thin  slices,  forming  little  wheels  or  curls.  Lay  them  on  the 
paste-board,  and  let  them  remain  one  hour  to  dry;  then  drop  them 
into  one  quart  of  boiling  stock  and  cook  20  minutes. 


54  SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

GERMAN  NOODT.KS  —  (Mrs.  Heil  Ross). — Make  up  the  desired 
quantity  of  flour  with  beaten  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt ;  then  work  until 
perfectly  smooth;  roil,  then  cut  through  in  sheets  with  a  knife  and 
boil  until  done,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  add  some  butter  and 
cream.  Serve  hot  for  dinner. 

BEEF  SOUP. — Three  Ibs.  of  beef,  3  carrots,  i  turnip,  i  bunch  cel- 
lery,  4  onions.  2  bunches  leeks,  tablespoonful  salt,  pepper  to  taste ; 
cut  the  meat  into  pieces  the  size  of  an  egg,  vegetables  washed  and 
scraped  and  cut  in  small  pieces;  put  all  into  a  large  stewpan  with  4 
or  5  quarts  of  water.  Boil  gently  for  a  whole  day.  Let  it  stand  all 
night ;  carefully  remove  the  fat  next  day  and  add  a  pinch  of  cay- 
enne pepper;  make  boiling  hot. 

SOUP — (Mrs.  Pr.ce,  Virginia). — Always  observe  in  making  soup  to 
lay  your  meat  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  a  lump  of  butter ;  cut 
the  herbs  and  roots  small  and  lay  them  over  the  meat ;  cover  it 
closely  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire..  This  will  draw  out  the  flavor  of 
the  herbs  and  roots  and  make  the  soup  much  better.  When  your 
meat  is  almost  dried  up  fill  your  pan  with  water.  When  done  take 
it  off  and  skim  it.  Set  it  in  a  warm  place  just  before  you  dish  up 
your  dinner.  N.  B. — Ochre,  nutmeg,  cymblings  (squash),  Irish  po- 
tatoes, cut  up  very  small,  put  them  in  an  earthern  pot  with  water, 
some  slices  of  lean,  sweet  bacon,  sojne  green  corn,  a  few  onions, 
parsley,  leeks  chopped  fine,  Lima  beans,  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut 
up,  a  small  bunch  of  thyme,  a  chicken,  thicken  with  flour  and'but- 
ter,  wet  up  with  rich  cream'.  Add  salt  and  pepper. 

COLORING  FOR  SOUPS — (West  Indian  mode). — Pare  3  medium- 
sized  onions  or  2  large  ones  and  brown  them  well  in  an  oven,  then 
chop  them  fine.  This  will  give  a  nice  color  as  well  as  flavor  to  bruwn 
soup.  Shells  of  green  peas  dried  in  the  oven  till  brown,  not  black, 
will  color  and  flavor  soup  nicely.  The  shells,  if  hung  in  a  dry  place, 
will  keep  all  winter. 

COLORING  SOUPS. — Some  prefer  it  because  the  soup  looks  better 
to  the  eye. 

SOUP — GOOD  INGREDIENT  FOR. —  i  1-2  Ibs.  beef,  shoulder  part,  1-4 
Ib.  bone,  31-4  quarts  water,  i  oz.  salt,  a  common-sized  carrot,  5  oz. ; 
i  large  onion,  5  oz.  with  a  clove  stuck  in  it ;  3  leeks,  7  oz. ;  i 
head  celery,  1-2  oz. ;  middle-sized  turnip,  5  oz. ;  parsley,  i  oz.  This 
will  make  enough. 

SOUP — (Mrs.  Upshur,  Virginia). — i  quart  clams,  i  pint  of  their 
liquor,  3  pints  of  water,  1-2  slice  of  bread,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  nutmeg,  3  blades  of  mace,  a  few  whole  pepptrs  and  one 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Cover  it  closely  and  stew  45  minutes.  Strain 
it  and  add  a  cup  of  cream,  which  scald  a  little,  before  serving  up  the 
soup. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  FISHES.  55 

ASPARAGUS  SOUPS. — One  quart  can  of  asparagus  in  1-2  gallon 
boiling  milk,  4  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  i  of  butter;  nutmeg,  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  the  asparagus  and  strain  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  thicken  the  boiling  milk  with  the  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a 
little  cold  milk,  add  asparagus,  salt,  butter,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Let 
all  come  to  a  boil.  If  the  soup  is  too  thick  add  more  milk  and  serve 
very  hot. 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS  ON  FISHES. 

"The  great  deep"  is  crowded  with  inhabitants  of  various  sizes 
and  of  vastly  different  constructions,  with  modes  of  life  entirely 
distinct  from  those  which  belong  to  the  animals  of  the  land,  and 
with  peculiarities  of  design  equally  wonderful  with  those  of  any 
works  which  have  come  from  the  hands  of  the  Creator.  Experi- 
ence has  taught  us  these  facts.  However,  the  history  of  these 
races,  more  or  less,  must  remain  forever  in  a  state  of  darkness, 
since  it  is  beyond  the  power  of  man  to  explore  the  depths  in 
which  they  live,  and  since  the  illimitable  expansion  of  their  do- 
main places  them  almost  entirely  out  of  the  reach  of  human  ac- 
cessibility. 

The  formation  of  fishes  shows  that  they  are  in  every  respect 
adapted  to  the  element  in  which  they  live,  and  there  is  no  doubt  that 
the  form  of  the  fish  originally  suggested  the  shape  of  the  ship.  But 
the  velocity  of  the  ship  sailing  before  the  wind  is  by  no  means  to  be 
compared  to  that  of  the  fish.  The  largest  fishes  will  with  the  great- 
est ease  overtake  a  ship,  play  around  it  without  any  effort,  and  shoot 
ahead  of  it  at  pleasure.  This  arises  from  that  flexibility  which  to 
compete  with  mocks  the  labors  of  art  and  enables  them  to  migrate 
thousands  of  miles  in  a  season  without  the  slightest  indications  of 
fatigue.  How  wonderful.  How  adorably  simple  has  the  Supreme 
Being  adapted  certain  means  to  the  attainment  of  certain  ends  ! 

The  principal  instruments  employed  by  fishes. to  accelerate  their 
motion  are  their  air  bladder,  fins  and  tail.  By  means  of  the  air  blad- 
der they  enlarge  or  diminish  their  specific  gravity.  In  swimming 
the  fins  enable  fishes  to  preserve  their  upright  position,  which  act 
like  two  feet.  The  tail  is  an  instrument  of  great  muscular  force, 
and  largely  assists  the  fish  in  all  its  motions,  and  in  some  instances 
acts  like  the  rudder  of  a  ship. 

WITH  RKSPECT  TO  THI-;  FOOD  OF  FISHKS. — They  are  mostly  car- 
nivorous and  find  their  food  almost  universally  in  their  own  element. 
They  even  devour  their  own  offsprings,  seize  upon  almost  everything 
that  comes  in  their  way,  and  manifest  a  particular  predeliction  for 
living  creatures.  They  frequently  engage  in  fierce  conflict  with  their 


56  OBSERVATIONS  ON  FISHES. 

prey.  The  animal  with  the  largest  mouth  is  usually  the  victor, 
and  he  no  sooner  has  conquered  his  foe  than  he  devours  him. 
Innumerable  shoals  or  armies  of  one  species  pursue  those  of 
another  species,  and  with  a  ferocity  that  drives  them  from  the 
frozen  zones  of  the  poles  to  the  burning  regions  of  the  equator. 
In  these  antagonistic  pursuits  and  hostile  combats,  fierce  as  fatal, 
many  species  must  have  become  extinct,  had  not  Nature,  whose 
tender  mercies  are  over  all  its  works,  provided  means  of  escape 
in  proportion  to  the  extent  and  variety  of  the  danger  to  which 
they  are  exposed.  Hence  the  smaller  species  are  not  only  more 
numerous,  but  more  productive  than  the  larger.  From  instinct 
they  go  in  search  of  food  and  safety  near  shores  and  in  shallow 
waters,  where  many  of  their  foes  are  unable  to  follow  them. 

The  fecundity  of  fishes  has  been  the  wonder  of  those  whose 
attention  has  been  drawn  to  it.  The  greater  number  deposit  their 
spawn  in  the  sand  or  gravel  and  some  on  seaweed.  It  has  been 
estimated  that  the  flounder  produces  millions  annually ;  the  cod 
spawns  upwards  of  nine  million  eggs  in  one  single  roe ;  the  mack- 
erel five  hundred  thousand,  a  herring  ten  thousand,  a  carp  two 
hundred  and  sixty-two  thousand  two  hundred  and  twenty-four,  a 
perch  deposited  three  hundred  and  eighty  thousand  six  hundred  and 
forty,  a  female  sturgeon  seven  million  six  hundred  and  fifty-three 
thousand  two  hundred.  Many  of  the  biviporous  'species  bring 
forth  two  or  three  hundred  at  a  time,  and  their  young,  at  the  moment 
they  come  into  existence,  commence  sporting  around  their  parent. 

IN  REFERENCE  TO  THE  LONGEVITY  OF  FISHES. — It  is  affirmed  that 
they  surpass  that  of  all  other  created  beings,  and  it  is  supposed  that 
they  are,  to  a  great  extent,  exempt  from  the  diseases  which  the 
flesh  of  other  animals  is  heir  to.  It  is  believed  that  the  most  minute 
species  has  a  longer  lease  of  life  than  human  beings,  though  the 
ages  of  fishes  has  not  properly  been  ascertained.  In  what  light  so- 
ever we  look  at  the  habits  of  the  finny  tribe  that  migrate  through 
the  different  tracks  of  the  ocean  and  have  their  homes  in  the 
watery  realm,  in  a  solitary  capacity  or  in  multitudes  which  would 
baffle  the  skill  of  the  greatest  mathematician  to  number,  they  are 
alike  wonderful  to  those  who  look  from  the  thing  created  to  the 
benign  Creator,  who  is  as  infinite  as  immeasurable  in  wisdom, 
and  consider  with  exalted  admiration  the  sublime  beauty,  vari- 
ety, power  and  grandeur  of  his  productions,  as  manifested  in  the 
handiwork  of  his  boundless  creation,  and  yet  with  due  humility  and 
profound  adoration  call  him  our  Father. 

Fish  as  an  article  of  human  food  in  its  nutritive  capacity  is  infe- 
rior to  animal,  or  what  is  called  butcher's  meat,  and  has  ever  held  a 
secondary  place  in  the  science  of  gastronomy  as  a  large  element  in 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  CARVING  FISH.  57 

the  happiness  of  mankind,  and  here  I  will  give  an  extract  from 
Beeton's  remarks  on  fish.  "  Among  the  Jews  of  old  it  was  very  little 
used,  a!though  it  seems  not  to  have  been  exactly  interdicted,  as 
Moses  prohibited  only  the  use  of  such  as  had  neither  scales  nor 
fins.  The  Egyptians,  however,  made  fish  an  article  of  diet,  not- 
withstanding it  was  rejected  by  their  priests.  Egypt,  however,  is 
not  a  country  favorable  to  the  production  of  fish,  though  we  read 
of  the  people  when  hungry  eating  it  raw,  and  of  epicures  among  them, 
having  it  dried." 

FISH,  AND  How  SPREAD  OVER  THE  COUNTRY. — The  spawn  is  put 
into  balls  of  mud,  which  can  be  transported  to  any  part  of  the 
country  and  put  in  pools  or  lakes,  either  large  or  small,  but  the 
small  ones  are  the  better.  (This  is  a  Chinese  custom.)  The  fish 
are  fed  on  a  very  singular  vegetable  which  grows  on  the  surface 
of  the  water  and  multiplies  during  the  night  time  with  almost  in- 
credible rapidity. 

The  larger  fish  consume  in  immense  quantities  a  certain  long 
coarse  grass  which  grows  wild  in  hot  places  or  by  the  margins  of 
ponds.  This  is  thrown  into  the  ponds,  when  the  fish  eat  it  at  pleas- 
ure. Artificial  ponds  can  be  made  almost  anywhere  in  China. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  CARVING  FISH. 

In  carving  fish  the  following  directions  apply  : 

IN  CARVING  SALMON. — It  is  only  necessary  to  take  care  to  avoid 
breaking  the  flakes  unnecessarily  by  attempting  to  divide  them  at 
right  angles  with  the  long  axis  of  the  fish.  There  is  a  great  differ- 
ence in  the  flavor  of  the  back  or  thick  part,  and  the  thin  part. 

A  cod's  head  and  shoulders  is  a  most  troublesome  dish  to  carve, 
because  if  well  boiled  it  looks  whole  until  touched,  and  then  it  crum- 
bles to  pieces  in  the  most  trying  way  to  the  inexperienced  carver. 
As  in  the  salmon,  so  here,  the  thick  and  thin  parts  are  not  equally 
prized  by  all,  and  should  be  served  according  to  choice,  togeth- 
er with  many  other  titbits  about  the  head.  Close  to  the  back 
bone  is  the  sound,  the  flavor  of  which  is  patronized  by  most  peop'e, 
though  not  by  all,  as  is  the  case  with  the  liver  also,  each  of  whi-  h 
should  be  divided  into  portions  suited  to  the  size  of  the  party  ana 
their  respective  wishes  onj.he  subject. 

Soles  are  carved  much  in  the  same  way  as  Salmon,  when  they 
are  of  any  size,  but  small  soles  are  completely  divided  into  two 
or  three  pieces  by  the  knife,  which  requires  a  slight  twist  in  order  to  do 
this  with  ease;  ladies  with  weak  wrists  have  great  difficulty  in 
effecting  this  seemingly  simple  operation,  but  some  strength  will  en- 
able any  bungler  to  do  it ;  yet  a  little  knack  will  make  up  for  the 


5$  REMARKS  ON  FISH. 

deficiency  in  this  regard,  and  place  the  delicate  lady's  hand  on  a 
level  with  that  of  the  most  powerful  man.  The  exact  method,  how- 
ever, can  scarcely  be  described,  and  must  be  watched  and  imitated 
in  order  to  insure  its  being  caught  by  the  learner.  Some  people  pre- 
fer to  remove  the  whole  of  the  flesh  in  the  same  way  as  in  carving 
turbot,  but  this  only  answers  for  the  large  soles. 

Turbot  requires  peculiar  carving,  because  unlike  other  fish  its  skin 
and  fins  are  thought  a  great  delicacy.  It  is  only  necessary  to  carry 
the  blade  of  the  knife  down  to  the  bone  along  the  middle,  and  then 
to  make  similar  deep  and  clean  cuts  at  right  angles  to  this  each  way 
to  the  fins,  a  portion  of  which  should  be  separated  and  kept  with 
each  square  of  fish,  so  as  to  avoid  that  hacking  of  the  fins  in  pieces 
afterwards,  which  is  by  no  means  slight.  When  this  part  is  not  ap- 
proved of,  it  is  very  easy  to  leave  the  fin  attached  to  the  bones  be- 
low. 

Mackerels  are  split  at  the  tail  and  the  upper  half  raised  at  that 
part  from  the  bones,  after  which  the  bone  is  removed  from  the  lower 
half  of  the  fish,  and  that  in  its  turn  is  served  either  in  one  piece  or 
divided  into  two,  according  to  its  size. 

Many  other  small  fish  are  carved  much  in  the  same  way  ;  that  is, 
either  serve  them  whole  or  divide  them  wilh  the  knife  into  sections, 
according  to  size,  the  thick  and  thin  part  of  the  fish,  and  there- 
fore most  people  like  to  be  asked  which  part  they  prefer.  This  being 
done,  the  knife  is  carried  down  the  bone  longitudinally  and  removes 
a  thick  slice  of  either  or  both,  according  to  choice. 

VARIOUS  REMARKS  ON  FISH. 

If  lemon  juice  can  be  had  fish  cooked  in  almost  any  fashion 
should  b'e  served  with  it.  It  promotes  health. 

NOTE — Tomato  or  Worcester  catsup  is  a  substitute, but  not  a  very 
good  one. 

Fish  affords  phosphorous  for  the  brain,  which  it  needs. 

FISH,  THE  FLESH. — -Is  refreshing  and  often  exciting,  and  as  an 
article  of  diet  it  should  be  more  common  than  it  is,  as  it  tends  to 
purify  the  blood  from  the  impurities  it  receives  from  partaking  of 
animal  food.  If  taken  at  the  commencement  of  a  meal  it  tends  to 
promote  digestion  of  those  articles  of  food  which  form  the  more 
solid  portion  of  the  meal. 

RE-COOKING  BOILED  FISH. — Cut  into  small  pieces  2  Ibs.  of  cold 
codfish,  scald  in  2  cups  of  sweet  milk,  then  stir  together  4  ozs. 
of  sweet  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  the  b'eaten 
yolks  of  3  eggs ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Butter  a  dish,  then 
put  in  first  a  layer  of  fish,  then  one  of  the  starch  mixture,  and 


REMARKS  ON  FISH.  59 

thus  continue,  leaving  the  paste  on  the  top.  Bake  45  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

TOM  CODS. — Are  cooked  very  much  as  the  smelts,  not  carved,  and 
are  considered  the  most  delicious  fish  in  the  market. 

FLAVORING  FOR  FISH  SAUCE. — Take  walnuts  fit  for  pickling,  pound 
them,  let  them  stand  for  24  hours,  then  press  the  juice  from  them, 
pour  off  the  clear;  to  every  pint  of  juice  put  i  round  of  anchovies, 
set  it  over  the  fire  till  the  anchovies  are  dissolved,  strain  it  and 
add  i  ounce  of  shallots,  1-4  ounce  of  mace,  1-4  ounce  of  cloves 
and  of  Jamaica  pepper  with  1-2  pint  of  the  best  pure  fruit  vinegar; 
boil  it  1-4  hour;  when  cold  bottle  for  use.  A  large  tablespoon- 
ful  is  enough  for  nearly  1-2  pint  of  butter.  It  will  keep  good  for 
3  or  4  years.  It  is  very  good  to  put  in  brown  gravies  and  hashes, 
One  hundred  walnuts  will  make  about  i  pint. 

MODE  OF  COOKING  FISH  AT  SEA,  by  French  and  Ilalian  fishermen 
on  the  Mediterranean. — The  fish  is  knocked  in  the  head,  and  with- 
out scaling  or  opening  it  the  fisherman  puts  it  over  a  clear  charcoal 
fire  or  upon  a  gridiron,  where  it  remains  till  cooked,  basting  it  with 
sweet  or  olive  oil.  When  sufficiently  done,  as  soon  as  opened  a 
flood  of  its  own  juice  gushes  forth,  and  the  entrails  having  become 
hard,  are  taken  out  cleanly  and  thrown  overboard. 

CODFISH. — Should  not  be  allowed  to  boil,  as  that  hardens  it ; 
remove  the  skin  and  place  the  fish  in  water,  then  cut  it  up  and 
simmer  till  tender. 

To  PRESERVE  FISH  FOR  TRANSPORTATION. — Take  the  fish  fresh 
from  the  water  and  fill  the  mouth  with  bread  crumbs  saturated  with 
brandy  ;  pour  a  little  in  the  stomach  ;  pack  in  straw  a  short  time  af- 
ter and  it  will  keep  for  10  days.  When  wanted  for  use  put  the  fish 
in  fresh  water.  In  a  few  hours  they  are  ready. 

To  REMOVE  THE  SCALES  FROM  FISH. — Lay  the  fish  in  a  deep  dish 
or  in  the  sink  and  pour  souie  scalding  water  over  it,  then  take  a  knife 
and  remove  the  scales  at  pleasure;  then  clean  and  wash  your  fish. 
Then  cut  up  and  put  the  pieces  in  the  coldest  water  to  harden  them. 
Then  boil  or  fry  them  for  20  minutes,  then  season  them  with  pep- 
per, salt  (oil  if  fried),  lemon  juice,  chopped  parsley  and  some  grated 
nutmeg.  Turn  the  fish  over  several  times  in  the  seasoning,  so  that 
it  may  be  penetrated  by  it. 

FISH  AS  A  DIET. — Dr.  Merryweather  says:  A  fish  diet  is  a  great 
humanizer  of  the  tempers  of  mankind.  Its  consumption  tends  won- 
derfully to  render  them  more  kindly  to  one  another,  and  consequently 
'tames  the  passionate  disposition  to  crime.  As  carnivorous  animals 
are  always  the  most  fierce  and  violent,  so  become  human  beings  who 
have  carnivorous  stomachs.  Could  such  stomachs  have  an  occa- 
sional respite  by  the  consumption  of  fish,  the  world  would  be  the 


60  TO  COOK  FISH. 

better  for  it.  I  speak  as  a  medical  man,  and  firmly  assert  that  many 
maladies  would  be  mitigated,  and  perhaps  annihilated  by  such  a  pro- 
cess. 

HABITATION  OF  THE  SALMON. — Walton  has  styled  the  salmon  the 
"king  of  fresh  water  fish."  It  has  never  been  found  in  warm  lati- 
tudes ;  it  lives  in  both  .fresh  and  salt  water. 

PRESERVE  THE  SPAWN  OF  FISHES  FOR  TABLE  USE. — (Miss  Hap- 
per.) — Pack  them  as  fish  in  rock  salt. 

HOW  TO  COOK  FISH. 

CALADONIAN  RECIPE  FOR  DRESSING  FISH. — Boil  the  livers  of 
the  fish  and  make  them  into  forcemeat  as  stuffing  balls,  without 
meal,  onions,  pepper  and  salt ;  put  the  water  on  with  some  cold 
butter  and  whole  onions,  and  when  the  onions  are  sufficiently 
boiled  put  in  the  fish  and  stew  them  with  their  heads  on,  season- 
ing with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper ;  add  the  balls  also. 

BAKED  FISH. — After  the  fish  is  thoroughly  cleaned,  salt  and  pepper 
well,  then  dredge  thickly  with  flour  or  corn  meal  by  turning  the  fish 
in  it ;  cover  the  whole  with  lard  by  rubbing  on  with  a  spoon ;  pour 
water  over  the  whole,  say  about  i  pint.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until 
a  nice,  rich  brown ;  to  be  eaten  with  melted  or  drawn  butter. 

BROWN  STEWED  FISH  AND  SAUCE. — Boil  the  frsh  in  an  ordinary 
fish  pan,  then  make  a  sauce  of  18  ginger  crackers,  i  cup  of  molasses, 
1-2  cup  of  good  cider  vinegar.  Moisten  plentifully  with  the  boiled 
fish  water,  throwing  away  the  balance;  boil  till  the  crackers  are  soft, 
then  pour  it  over  the  fish  in  the  pan  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then 
serve.  Season  to  taste  while  cooking. 

To  STEW  FISH.  —  (Maison  Dore.)  —  Put  into  a  sauce  par)  either 
cold  or  hot  water  with  a  few  slices  of  onions,  carrots  and  a  couple  of 
bay  leaves  or  more,  according  to  the  size  of  your  fish.  Thyme, 
cloves,  whole  peppers,  some  celery,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  chopped, 
salt  and  vinegar.  Let  cook  gently  until  the  flesh  comes  easily  from 
the  bones.  To  test  it,  have  a  thick  needle,  pass  it  through  your  fish, 
let  it  remain  just  a  few  seconds.  If  warmed  thoroughly  when  you  take 
it  out  the  fish  is  done. 

BOSTON  FISH  BALLS. — Eight  ounces  codfish,  3  ounces  chopped 
suet,  a  small  lump  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  bread  crumbs,  pepper, 
salt  and  nutmeg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  sauce.  Pound  all 
together  in  a  mortar  with  an  egg,  divide  into  small  cakes  and  fry 
them. 

YOUNG  CODFISH  ROASTED.  Get  the  fish  vender  to  dress  -your 
fish,  salt  and  pepper  it,  spread  flat  on  a  board  and  confine  it  with 
cords  and  stand  the  board  up  before  a  brisk  fire  to  toast  the  fish; 


TO  COOK  FISH.  6l 

when  sufficiently  brown  on  one  side  untie  it,  and  by  means  of  a  tin 
sheet  or  dish  turn  it  on  a  gridiron,  that  the  other  side  may  brown. 
Do  not  break  it  in  turning  it  over.  Take  up  and  pour  hot  melted 
butter  over  it  and  serve  hot.  Other  fish  can  be  cooked  in  the  same 
way. 

To  BOIL  COD. — Cut  off  the  tail,  which  should  be  useless  before 
the  other  part  is  done  enough;  rub  well  the  inside,  without 
washing  ;  let  it  lie  from  one  to  two  days  and  boil  in  plenty  of  water, 
with  a  handful  of  salt;  garnish  with  the  boiled  roe  and  liver,  small 
flounders,  king  or  pan-fish  nicely  fried.  The  tail  cut  may  lay  in  salt 
for  a  few  days  and  be  boiled  and  served  with  egg  sauce  or  parsnips 
mashed  with  cream  and  butter,  or  may  be  broiled  fresh  or  fried  in 
fillets  or  slices  and  served  with  oyster  sauce,  or  a  sauce  made  of  1-2 
a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  a  glass  of  red  wine,  2  king  fish  chopped,  white 
pepper,  salt  and  a  few  pickled  oysters  and  thickened  with  a  little 
flour  worked  in  butter.  Boil  up  and  skim  the  sauce ,  place  the 
slices  neatly  on  a  dish  and  pour  it  around  them  ;  garnish  with  slices 
of  lemon. 

COD'S  SOUNDS  BOILED. — Soak  them  1-2  hour  in  water  and  vine- 
gar with  some  lemon  peel  or  two  bay  leaves,  pepper  and  salt ;  when 
done  cover  it  with  a  sauce  made  of  melted  butter,  oysters,  capers, 
a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 

COD  SOUNDS. — They  should  be  well  soaked  in  salt  and  water  and 
thoroughly  washed  before  dressing  them.  They  are  considered  a 
great  delicacy,  and  may  either  be  broiled,  fried  or  boiled  ;  if  boiled, 
mix  a  little  milk  with  the  water. 

FRESH  CODFISH. — Lay  it  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  with  salt  and  a 
bit  of  saltpetre,  and  boil  it  till  thoroughly  done  or  breaks  in  flakes. 
Serve  with  melted  butter  and  any  sauce  you  may  prefer. 

MY  WAY  TO  COOK  CODFISH. — To  i  bowl  (i  pint)  of  codfish 
picked  fine,  add  3  pints  of  cold  water,  put  over  the  fire  and  heat  or 
boil  five  minutes,  pour  off  the  water  and  add  to  the  fish  while  it  is 
hot  i  tablespoonful  butter  and  3  eggs,  stir  very  quickly,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste  Serve  hot. 

COD  A  LA  MAITRE  DE  HOTEL. — Two  slices  of  cod,  1-4  Ib.  of  butter, 
a  little  chopped  shallot  and  parsley  ;  pepper  to  taste  ;  1-4  teaspoonful 
grated  nutmeg  or  rather  less,  when  the  flavor  is  not  liked;  the  juice 
of  4  lemons.  Boil  the  cod,  and  either  leave  it  whole,  or  what  is 
better,  flake  it  from  the  bone  and  take  off  the  skin ;  put  it  into  a 
stew-pan  with  the  butter,  parsley,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Melt 
the  butter  gradually,  and  be  yery  careful  that  it  does  not  become 
like  oil;  when  all  is  well  mixed  and  thoroughly  hot  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  serve.  Use  the  remains  of  cold  fish;  cook  1-2  hour. 
The  employment  of  catching  codfish  is  exceedingly  fatiguing,  owing 
to  the  weight  of  the  fish. 


62  TO  COOK  FISH. 

CODFISH  FOR  FRIDAY  DINNER. — One  quart  of  picked  codfish,  i 
pint  of  bread  crumbs,  i  cup  of  cream,  1-4  Ib.  butter,  i  teaspoonful 
black  pepper ;  wash  the  fish  thoroughly  and  soak  over  night  in  cold 
water ;  when  ready  to  use  pick  it  fine,  put  it  in  a  baking-dish  in  layers 
with  the  crumbs  and  pepper,  adding  a  little  mustard,  if  you  like  it, 
over  the  top  layer,  which  must  be  crumbed ;  spread  with  softened 
butter  and  pour  the  cream  or  new  sweet  milk  over  the  whole  and 
bake  30  minutes. 

FRIED  COD. — Flour  the  pieces  and  sprinkle  cayenne  pepper  on 
them  and  fry  brown.  Cotton  seed  oil  is  excellent  to  fry  fish  in. 

To  STEW  COD. — Season  it  high  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  a 
little  wine  and  lemon  juice,  or  some  nice  sauce  with  butter  rolled  in 
flour. 

To  CRIMP  COD. — Lay  small  pieces  in  half  vinegar  and  salt  for  4 
hours,  then  cook  them  in  any  way  you  may  prefer — boiled,  fried  or 
broiledT 

CODFISH  BALLS.  —Boil  3  Ibs.  of  codfish  slowly,  after  soaking  it  in 
cold  water  the  night  before ;  boil  some  large  potatoes  and 
.mash  them  fine;  while  warm,  add  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  in  the 
'proportion  of  1-3  codfish  and  2-3  mashed  potatoes,  make  it  up  with 
4  eggs  and  a  cup  of  milk,  then  make  it  with  your  hand  as  you  would 
a  biscuit,  about  i  inch  thick,  and  fry  brown  in  hot  lard  or  salt  pork. 
Boil  some  eggs  hard  and  cut  them  in  halves  and  put  a  piece  in  the 
center  of  each  ball  and  send  to  table  in  a  flat  dish. 

COD'S  HEAD  was  stuffed  with  a  quart  of  oysters,  onions  and  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  the  mouth  firmly  closed. — From  Crom- 
well's Cook  Book. 

THE  SAUCE  FOR  IT. — Oyster  liquor,  4  anchovies,  sliced  onion, 
melted  together  in  a  pint  of  white  wine!  This  was  poured  over  the 
cod's  head  ;  a  little  nutmeg  was  then  grated  over  the  fish,  when  it 
was  served  up,  and  the  edges  of  the  dish  being  garnished  with  slices 
of  lemon. — Cromwell's  Cook  Book. 

CODFISH  PUFFS. — (Mrs.  B. — Receipt  the  same  as  for  codfish  balls 
put  in  an  earthen  baking  dish  ;  smooth  over  the  top  and  put  on 
some  butter,  then  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake 

FLAKED  FISH. — Make  a  sauce  by  dredging  some  flout  into  2  ozs. 
of  hot  butter  in  a  stew  pan;  add  1-2  Ib.  of  codfish  nicely  flaked,  2 
spoonfuls  of  cold  butter,  a  spoonful  each  of  anchovy  sauce  and  mixed 
mustard,  i  teacupful  of  cream,  some  pepper,  salt  and  a  few  bread 
crumbs,  make  hot  and  serve  as  it  is,  or  you  may  pour  it  into  a  but- 
tered dish  with  the  addition  of  a  few  bread  crumbs  and  brown  the 
top  in  an  oven. 

SALT  CODFISH.  — Sufficient  water  to  cover  the  fish ;  wash  the  nsn 
and  lay  it  all  night  in  water  with  1-4  pint  of  vinegar ;  when  thor- 


TO  COOK  FISH.  63 

oughly  soaked  take  it  out,  see  that  it  is  perfectly  clean  and  put  in 
the  kettle  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  it.  Heat  it  gradually, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil  much,  or  the  fish  will  be  hard.  Skim  well,  and 
when  done  drain  the  fish  and  put  it  in  a  napkin  garnished  with  hard 
boiled  eggs ;  cut  in  rings. 

SALT  FOR  BOILING  FISH. — Allow  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  to  every 
quart  of  water;  allow  15  or  20  minutes  for  boiling  every  pound  of 
fish. 

In  boiling  fish  it  will  sink  to  the  bottom,  and  does  not  rise  to 
the  surface  till  done.  When  it  does  so  it  is  a  sure  sign  that  it  is 
sufficiently  cooked. 

SOAP  ROOT  AND  FISH. — The  Indians  use  this  bulb  to  catch  fish 
in  very  large  quantities,  finding  the  place  where  the  trout  collect 
together  in  a  hole  in  some  stream.  They  beat  up  the  soap  root 
and  throw  it  in  the  water,  which  stupefies  the  fish  and  causes 
them  to  float  to  the  surface  of  the  stream,  when  they  may  be 
taken. 

Flying  fish  come  in  the  spring  and  leave  in  the  fall ;  abound  in 
the  waters  of  the  Santa  Cruz  coast.  Cooked  as  herring. 

HERRINGS  BOILED. — Boil  very  slowly  6  herrings  20  minutes  in 
plenty  of  salt  and  water,  then  make  a  sauce  of  1-2  cup  of  sweet  cream 
in  a  sauce  pan  on  the  fire  ;  when  it  boils  add  a  small  cupful  of  new 
milk  and  a  spoonful  of  fresh  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  the 
juice  of  1-2  a  lemon  ;  place  upon  a  dish,  pour  the  boiling  hot  sauce 
over  and  serve  at  once. 

FRESH  HERRINGS  BROILED  WITH  DIJON  SAUCE. — Herrings  can  be 
bread  crumbed  and  fried,  but  they  are  better  dressed  in  the  follow- 
ing fashion  :  Wipe  them  well  with  a  clean  cloth  and  cut  three 
incisions  slantingly  upon  each  side,  then  dip  them  in  flour  and 
broil  very  slowly,  when  done  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over,  place 
them  on  a  napkin  on  a  dish,  then  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 
with  salad,  or  the  following  sauce  in  a  boat,  made  in  a  stew-pan  : 
8  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  2  tablepoonfuls  of  French 
mustard,  or  i  of  American  or  English,  a  tablespoonful  of  fresh 
butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt  ;  when  about  to  boil,  serve. 

BAKED  HERRING. — Scale,  wash  and  dry  them  well  in  a  cloth, 
lay  them  on  a  board,  pound  some  black  pepper  and  cloves  to- 
gether, and  mix  them  with  4  times  the  quantity  of  salt,  and  rub 
the  fish  all  over.  Lay  them  straight  in  an  earthen  dish  (a  deep 
dish  is  best) ;  cover  them  with  vinegar  and  a  fe\v  bay  leaves. 
Tie  strong  paper  over  the  top  of  the  dish  and  bake  them  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  1-2  an  hour  or  longer.  They  are  good  eaten 
either  hot  or  cold,  and  will  keep  a  long  time  if  well  covered. 
Mackerel  and  trout  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  way. 


64  TO  COOK  FISH. 

To  FRY  HERRING. — If  fresh,  scale  and  dry  them  well,  dredge 
them  with  flour  and  fry  them  in  butter  or  bacon  grease;  when  done, 
set  their  tails  one  against  the  other  in  the  middle  of  the  dish.  Fry 
crisp  a  handful  of  parsley,  take  it  out  before  the  color  changes,  lay 
it  around  the  herrings  and  serve  them  up  with  melted  butter,  parsley 
and  mustard.  If  the  herrings  are  salt,  soak  them  24  hours,  hang 
them  up  to  dry  and  fry  them  in  lard. 

To  BROIL  FRESH  HERRINGS. — Scale  and  wipe  them  perfectly 
clean ;  rub  the  bars  of  the  gridiron  with  mutton  suet  or  fat  bacon  ; 
have  a  clear  fire,  lay  them  on,  and  when  nicely  browned  turn  them. 
Serve  very  hot,  with  cold  butter. 

To  BROIL  SALT  HERRINGS,  MACKEUEL,  ETC. — When  taken  from 
the  brine  wash  them  in  two  waters,  and  lay  them  in  plenty  of  water 
and  let  them  soak  for  6  hours.  If  very  salt,  which  can  be  known  by 
tasting  one  of  the  fins,  change  the  water.  It  is  better  to  add  2  or  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar.  But  if  the  fish  are  hard  and  dry,  use  a 
tablespoonful  of  soda  instead  of  the  vinegar.  When  sufficiently 
fresh,  take  them  irom  the  water  and  wipe  them  well  and  dry.  Have 
your  gridiron  very  clean  by  rubbing  the  bars  bright,  grease  them 
with  suet  or  lard,  but  not  too  much,  otherwise  the  grease  wil  drip  on 
the  coals  and  impart  a  disagreeable  odor  and  taste  to  the  fish.  The 
gridiron  should  be  hot,  but  not  enough  so  as  to  scorch  them  ;  there 
should  be  no  smoke  or  blaze  about  it.  Lay  the  fish  open,  the  skin 
sides  down  ;  turn  ft  once  ;  when  done,  place  over  it  a  hot  dish  ;  re- 
verse the  gridiron  ;  pour  1-2  a  cup  of  water  over  the  fish.  Let  it 
remain  5  minutes;  pour  off  the  water ;' butter  and  pepper  it  well; 
garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced,  or  use  egg  sauce  or  season 
with  lemon  juice  or  any  flavored  vinegar.  The  dish  should  be 
served  hot  and  sent  to  the  table  without  delay.  Worcestershire 
sauce  is  an  excellent  seasoning. 

FISH  STOCK  WITH  HERRINGS  CUT  UP. — Put  the  fish  on  in  cold 
water;  when  done,  pour  the  water  off,  put  butter  on  a  tin  plate, 
then  a  layer  of  sliced  Irish  potatoes,  chopped  parsley  and  onions ; 
then  put  on  a  layer  of  stock  fish  and  the  herrings,  then  a  layer  of 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  potatoes,  onions  and  parsley,  and  continue  till 
the  tin  plate  is  full,  and  let  the  last  layer  be  of  the  vegetables  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Set  in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly. 

To  STEW  MACKEREL. — After  removing  the  head,  the  fins  and  the 
tail,  open  the  fish  and  take  out  the  hard  roes  and  dry  them  with  a 
cloth,  then  dredge  them  lightly  with  flour,  place  three  of  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  black  walnut  to  each 
fish  ;  put  into  a  small  basin  a  teaspoonful  of  water,  a  tablespoonful 
each  of  finely  chopped  onions  and  parsley,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  Anchovy  essence,  a  small 


TO  COOK  FISH.  65 

teacupful  of  ale  or  porter  (if  not  bitter) ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
grated  bread  crust  toasted  a  light  brown  ;  pour  all  these  ingredients 
over  the  fish,  and  let  them  stew  gently  for  20  minutes;  have  ready 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten.  When  the  fish  is  sufficiently  done, 
take  up  some  of  the  gravy  and  mix  gradually  with  the  eggs,  pouring 
them  on  the  fish  ;  shake  the  stew-pan  a  little  over  the  fire  to  thicken 
the  whole,  but  not  to  curdle  the  eggs  ;  the  soft  roes  added  are  an 
improvement.  Have  ready  more  grated  crust,  and  having  placed 
the  fish  whole  in  the  dish,  shake  a  little  of  the  grated  crust  over  the 
whole,  so  as  to  make  it  of  a  handsome  brown.  If  the  gravy  is  too 
thick,  more  water  may  be  added,  also  a  glass  of  sherry ^if  liked.  The 
recipe  should  be  carefully  followed. 

SOUSED  MACKEUEL. — Wash  the  mackerel  clean,  boil  in  salt  and 
water,  then  take  it  up ;  take  some  of  the  boiled  water  and  the  same 
quantity  of  vinegar,  heat  very  hot  with  some  whole  peppers  and 
cloves,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish  in  an  earthen  or  wooden  vessel.  In 
three  days  it  can  be  used. 

FENNEL  BUTTER  OR  SAUCE  ESPECIALLY  FOR  MACKEREL. — Mix  a 
good  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
so  as  to  form  a  paste,  before  putting  it  on  the  fire,  then  add  to  it  a 
cupful  of  water,  with  an  even  teaspoon ful  of  salt,  a  good  pinch  of 
black  pepper ;  set  on  the  fire ;  stir  it  constantly  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  then  add  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  fennel  chopped  fine,  stir  it 
and  set  to  boil  a  moment,  then  add  a  spoonful  of  butter.  Serve  hot 
in  a  boat.  If  desired  a  spoonful  of  vinegar  may  be  added. 

BOILED  MACKEREL. — Boil  in  salt  and  water  with  fennel,  parsley 
or  any  piquant  seasoning. 

BAKED  MACKEREL. — 4  middling-sized  mackerel,  a  nice,  delicate 
forcemeat,  2  spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Clean 
the  fish ;  take  out  the  roes  and  fill  up  with  forcemeat  and  sew  up 
the  slit,  flour,  put  them  on  a  dish,  heads  and  tails  alternately,  with 
the  roes  between  each  layer,  and  put  on  some  little  pieces  of  but- 
ter. Sufficient  for  6  persons.  Mackerel  die  as  soon  as  taken  from 
the  water. 

To  BOIL  HERRINGS. — Having  scaled  and  cleaned  the  fish,  dry 
them  well  and  rub  them  over  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar.  Fasten 
the  tails  in  their  mouths  and  lay  them  in  a  fish  plate.  Put  them  in 
the  water  as  soon  as  it  boils  at.d  let  them  remain  1 2  minutes.  On 
taking  them  up,  let  them  drain,  and  then  turn  the  heads  into  the 
middle  of  the  dish.  Serve  with  butter  and  parsley  and  garnish  with 
scraped  horseradish. 

To  FRY  PIKE. — Bone  the  Pike,  cut  the  fillets  in  thin  pieces, 
dip  them  in  egg  and  crumbs  of  bread,  fry  in  hot  fat. 

BAKED  PIKE.— Scale  the  fish,  take  out  the  gills,  wash  and  wipe 


66  .  TO  COOK  FISH. 

it  thoroughly  dry,  stuff  it  with  force  meat,  sew  it  up,  and  fasten 
the  tail  in  the  mouth  by  means  of  a  skewer,  brush  it  over  with 
egg,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  baste  with  butter  before  put- 
ting it  in  the  oven,  which  must  be  well  heated.  When  the  pike 
is  of  a  nice  brown  color  cover  it  with  buttered  paper,  as  the  out- 
side would  become  too  dry.  If  2  are  dressed  a  little  variety  may 
be  made  by  making  one  of  them  green  with  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley mixed  with  the  bread  crumbs.  Serve  with  melted  butter.  Baked 
more  or  less  than  i  hour. 

To  STEW  PIKE. — Make  a  browning  with  butter  and  flour  and 
put  it  into  tlje  pan  with  a  pint  of  red  wine,  4  cloves,  12  small 
onions  parboiled  and  some  pepper  and  salt ;  cut  the  fish  in  pieces 
and  stew  the  whole  gently.  When  done  take  it  out  and  add  to  it  a 
spoonful  of  capers  chopped  small  and  some  walnut  or  tomato  cat- 
sup. Boil  it  a  few  minutes  and  pour  it  over  the  pike.  Garnish  with 
fried  bread. 

CREAM  SAUCE  FOR  BAKED  PIKE. — A  couple  slices  of  onion,  salt, 
2  ounces  of  butter  and  i  pint  of  sour  cream  for  3  Ibs.  of  pike;  bake 
it  in  a  hot  oven  for  20  minutes  ;  during  the  time  baste  several  times 
with  its  own  broth ;  stewed  with  bread  crumbs  and  Parmesian 
cheese.  When  done  mix  the  sauce  with  a  little  vinegar  and  lemon 
juice,  pour  it  over  the  fish,  taking  out  the  bay  leaf  and  slices  of 
onion. 

To  BOIL  PIKE  IN  ITS  OWN  JUICE. — It  is  better  to  dress  it  as  soon 
as  taken  from  the  water ;  the  pike  are  scalded,  drawn  and  cut  in 
pieces  or  slices,  then  washed  in  cold  water  and  put  into  a  stew  pan. 
Then  pour  over  a  glass  of  white  wine,  add  a  few  onions,  some  bay 
leaves,  salt,  mace,  some  finely  chopped  anchovies ;  cover  it  and 
boil  it  together  for  1-2  hour.  When  you  dish  it  up  take  out  the  on- 
ions and  bay  leaves.  Put  the  fish  on  the  dish  and  pour  the  gravy 
over  it. 

CRIMPED  SALMON. — Salmon  is  frequently  dressed  in  this  way  at 
many  fashionable  tables,  but  must  be  very  fresh  and  cut  into  slices 
2  or  3  inches  thick.  Lay  these  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  i  hour  ; 
have  ready  some  boiling  water  (6  ounces  of  salt  to  each  gallon  of 
water)  and  well  skimmed;  put  in  the  fish  and  simmer  gently  for  1-4 
hour,  or  rather  longer  should  it  be  very  thick,  garnish  the  same  as 
boiled  salmon  and  serve  with  the  same  sauce.  Cook  1-4  hour,  more 
or  less,  according  to  size. 

N.  B.  Never  use  vinegar  with  salmon,  as  it  spoils  the  color  and 
taste  of  the  fish. 

SALMON  CUTLET  WITH  CAPER  SAUCE. —  Carefully  remove  the  bones 
and  skin  of  a  piece  of  salmon,  then  cut  it  into  slices  1-2  inch  thick 
and  flatten  it  on  the  chopping  board  with  a  cutlet  but  dipped  in 


TO  COOK  FISH.  67 

water.  Then  cut  these  slices  into  uniform  size,  place  them  in  a  flat, 
well  buttered  baking  pan,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and 
10  or  12  minutes  before  wanted  put  them  into  the  oven  with  a  sheet 
of  buttered  white  paper  over  them.  Put  all  the  trimmings  of  the 
salmon  into  a  sauce  pan  with  chopped  carrots,  onions,  thyme,  pars- 
ley, a  bay  leaf,  a  few  cloves,  some  whole  pepper :  salt  to  taste  and  a 
little  more  than  a  pint  of  good  stock.  Leave  this  to  boil  gently  till 
reduced  1-2.  then  strain  the  liquor  into  a  basin  and  remove  any  fat 
that  may  be.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  guinea's  egg,  add 
to  it  a  teaspoonlul  ot  flour  and  stir  it  on  the  fire  till  it  is  well  colored, 
Add  the  liquor  to  this  and  continue  to  stir  until  the  sauce  boils,  then 
add  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  capers ;  pour  the  same  over  the  capers 
and  serve. 

To  BOIL  SALMON. — Clean  it  carefully,  boil  it  gently  and  take  it 
out  of  the  water  as  soon  as  done.  Let  the  water  be  warn)  if  the  fish 
be  split.  If  under  done  it  is  very  unwholesome.  Shrimp  or  lob- 
ster sauce. 

IRISH  PICKLE  FOR  SALMON. — Equal  parts  of  vinegar,  white  wine 
and  water.  Boil  it  with  white  ginger,  mace,  cloves,  pepper  and  horse- 
radish. Take  out  the  latter  when  sufficiently  boiied  arid  pour  the 
pickle  over  the  salmon  previously  boiled  in  strong  salt  and  water. 

YORKSHIUE  RECIP;-:  TO  DRESS  DKIKD  SALMON.— Pull  some  dried 
salmon  into  flakes,  have  ready  some  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  large, 
put  both  into  a  pint  of  cream  with  2  ounces  of  butter  rubbed  up 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour ;  skim  it  and  stir  till  it  boils,  make  a  wall 
of  mashed  potatoes  round  the  dish  and  put  the  fish  in  the  center. 

To  STEW  SALMON. — Half  fry  them  in  butter  after  cutting  it  in 
nice  pieces,  then  take  them  out  and  put  into  the  pan  a  quart  of  wa- 
ter and  a  sliced  onion,  replace  the  fish  in  the  pan  and  let  them  stew 
gently  for  20  minutes  or  1-2  hour,  according  to  size.  When  taken 
out  squeeze  a  lemon  over  the  pan  and  thicken  the  liquor  with  but- 
ter and  flour.  Having  given  it  a  boil,  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve 
over  the  fish  and  serve  with  oyster  and  shrimp  sauce.  Several 
kinds  of  fish  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner.  Scraped  horse- 
radish, sippets  of  bread  and  fine  parsley  may  be  served  with  it. 

SALMON  CREAM. — When  you  open  your  can  pour  off  all  the  liquid, 
fill  it  with  boiling  water,  seasoned  with  1-2  a  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
then  set  the  can  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  heat  through ; 
shred  the  fish,  allowing  i  Ib.  of  fish  to  each  pint  of  milk  and  2  ozs. 
butter  stirred  into  i  spoonful  of  flour;  boil  the  milk,  rub  the  flour 
and  butter  together.  If  liked,  boil  an  onion  in  the  milk,  then  strain 
it  out,  then  stir  the  flour  and  butter  into  the  hot  milk,  boil  till  thick, 
season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt ;  pour  into  a  pudding  dish,  then 
some  white  sauce,  sprinkle  over  some  bread  crumbs  and  thus  con- 


68  TO  COOK  FISH. 

tinue  till  the  dish  is  full.     Let  the  last  layer  be  of  crumbs,  then  bake 
a  nice  brown  on  the  top. 

To  DRESS  SHAD. — One  shad,  oil,  pepper  and  salt;  scale,  empty 
and  wash  the  fish  carefully  and  make  2  or  3  incisions  up  the  back  ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  let  it  remain  in  oil  1-2  an  hour; 
broil  it  on  both  sides  over  a  clear  fire  and  serve-with  caper  sauce. 

BAKED  SHAD — (M.  H.'s  Recipe). — Clean,  wash  and  wipe  the  fish, 
which  should  be  a  large  one;  make  a  stufl&ng-of  bread  crumbs 
steeped  in  sweet  milk,  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  sweet  herbs  moistened 
with  beaten  eggs  ;  stuff  the  shad  and  sew  it  up.  Lay  it  in  the  bak- 
ing-pan with  a  cupful  of  water  to  keep  it  from  burning  and  bake  an 
hour,  basting  with  butter  and  water  until  it  is  tender  throughout  and 
well  browned.  Take  it  up,  put  it  in  a  hot  dish  and  cover  tightly, 
while  you  boil  the  gravy  with  a  great  spoonful  of  catsup,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour,  which  has  been  wet  with  cold  water,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  if  you  wish  to  have  it  very  fine,  a  glass  of  sherry 
or  madeira,  garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  water  cresses.  You  may 
put  the  gravy  around  the  fish  or  serve  in  a  sauce-boat.  Of  course 
you  take  out  the  thread  with  which  it  has  been  sewed  up  before  serv- 
ing the  fish. 

MRS.  HALE'S  RECIPE  FOR  BROILINU  SHAD. — Empty  and  wash 
the  fish  with  care.  Do  not  open  it  more  than  necessary  to  do 
this  ;  fill  it  with  forcemeat  and  its  own  roe.  Oysters  are  good 
when  in  season  ;  sew  it  up  ;  fasten  it  with  fine  skewers  securely : 
wrap  it  thickly  with  buttered  paper;  broil  gently  over  solid  coals, 
without  the  least  smoke,  for  one  hour  Or  one  of  medium  size  may 
be  broiled  on  a  gridiron  in  20  minutes.  Serve  upon  a  hot  dish,  and 
lay  a  good  piece  of  butter  upon  the  dish. 

BOILED  FRESH  SHAD. — Clean,  wash  and  wipe  the  best  roe  shad, 
cleanse  the  roes  thoroughly,  and,  after  sailing  both  fish  and  roes, 
wrap  them  in  separate  cloths  and  lay  them  side  by  side  in  the  fish 
kettle,  covered  with  salt  and  water,  and  in  proportion  to  their  sizo, 
boil  them  for  1-2  or  3-4  of  an  hour.  Serve  upon  a  hot  dish.  Lay 
the  roes  around  the  fish  and  pour  over  drawn  butter  mingled  with 
chopped  eggs  and  parsley,  or  e_;g  sauce.  Garnish  with  capers,  or 
'nasturtium  flowers,  or  p  >d<,  and  s:!ces  of  hard  boile  1  eggs. 

To  FRY  SHAD. — Clean  them  ihorougtyy  ;  cut  in  slices  of  the  proper 
size  to  help  at  the  table;  wipe  them  dry.  Beat  one  or  two  eggs 
well  together,  and  with  an  egg-brush  put  the  egg  evenly  over  the  fish, 
or  the  pieces  may  be  dipped  in  the  egg.  Be  sure  that  every  part  is 
covered  with  the  beaten  egg.  Roll  them  in  bread  crumbs.  Shak  • 
off  the  loose  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Fry  the  thick  parts  a  feu 
minutes  before  putting  on  the  thin.  Have  plenty  of  lard  to  cover 
the  fish.  Do  not  put  in  till  the  lard  boils,  or  the  fish  will  not  be  firm 


TO  COOK  FISH.  69 

and  crisp.  If  there  are  eggs  or  roe,  fry  them.  Shad  and  other  fish 
may  be  rolled  in  corn  meal,  sifted  fine,  or  in  flour,  before  being  fried. 
Either  way  is  good.  This  recipe  will  do  for  frying  any  kind  of  fish. 

SHAD  AXD  ROCK  ROES. — These  may  be  fried  in  hot  lard,  or  beaten 
up  with  eggs  and  fried  in  small  cakes.  If  boiled,  wrap  them  up  in  a 
cloth  and  throw  th^in  in  boiling,  and  dress  with  butter  sauce. 

BAKBECUED  SHAD. — Take  a  fine,  large  shad,  put  it  in  a  pan  and 
season  with  cayenne  pepper  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  sugar  ;  put 
one  large  spoonful  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  on  it,  and  a  little  salt. 
Mix  vinegar  and  water,  equal  parts;  and  pour  on  enough  to  cover  it. 
ilake  slowly  for  one  hour. 

PICKLED  SHAD. — Two  gallons  of  rock  salt,  1-2  gallon  alum  salt,  i 
Ib.  of  brown  sugar  and  4  oz.  saltpetre.  This  is  sufficient  for  two 
dozen  shad,  if  large ;  then  commence  by  putting  first  a  layer  of  the 
salt,  powdered  and  well  mixed,  at  the  bottom  of  the  barrel,  then  the 
well-cleaned  shad,  the  skin  side  downward,  then  another  layer  of 
salt,  and  thus  continue  till  you  have  used  all  the  ingredients,  then  put 
the  salt  last,  and  press  the  whole  down  with  a  board  and  weight  on 
the  top.  Look  at  it  in  a  week;  if  there  is  not  brine,  make  some 
more  and  put  it  over  the  shad.  N.  B. — If  the  fish  is  not  clean  it 
will  draw  flies. 

CORNED  SHAD. — Clean,  wash  well  and  split  open  a  fresh  shad  ; 
mix  i  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper  and  i  of  brown  sugar;  lay  the 
shad  upon  a  flat  dish  and  rub  it  gently  on  the  inside  with  pepper  and 
sugar.  Next  morning  broil  nicely,  and  put  bits  of  butter  on  it,  and 
you  will  find  it  superior  to  salt  corned  shad. 

BAKED  TURBOT  OR  SHEEP'S  HEAD. — Prepare  a  stuffing  of  pepper, 
salt,  butter,  a  bit  of  fat  sweet  bacon,  mince  fine  an  onion,  shallot, 
bread  crumbs  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  After  rubbing  the  fish  with 
butter,  and  sprinkled  pepper  and  salt  on  it,  place  it  in  the 
stew-pan  or  a  long  tin  pan,  bake  it  until  it  is  thoroughly  done. 

To  BOIL  TUKBOT. — Must  be  for  boiling  in  the  nicest  order  and  of 
the  proper  size;  the  fish  must  be  set  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover 
it  all  over  completely ;  throw  a  handful  of  salt  and  a  glass  of  vinegar 
into  it,  and  let  it  gradually  boil;  be  very  careful  to  skim  it  thoroughly, 
so  that  nothing  remains  to  mar  the  beauty  of  the  color.  Serve  it 
garnished  with  a  complete  fringe 'of  curled  parsley,  lemon  and  horse- 
radish. The  sauce  must  be  of  the  finest  lobster,  bloater  butter  and 
plain  butter,  served  in  separate  tureens. 

TUKBUT  A  LA  CkEME— (Mrs.  F.  B.  L.). — Add  by  degrees  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  stirred  up  with  a  small  portion  of  milk  till  perfectly 
smooth,  then  gradually  stir  it  into  a  quart  of  milk  in  a  stew-pan  on 
the  fire,  then  put  in  a  teaspoonful  each  of  chopped  onion,  parsley, 
salt,  some  red  pepper.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  becomes  a  little 


7O  STEWS,  ETC. 

thick,  then  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Lay  a  little  of  this 
sauce  on  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  then  a  layer  of  fish,  picked  free  from 
the  bones,  alternately,  until  all  your  material  is  used  up  Sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  over  the  top  and  bake  1-2  hour.  Any  kind  of  cold  fish 
will  do. 

FttOGS. 

STEWED  FROGS. — After  skinning  the  hind  legs,  parboil  them  a  few 
minutes,  then  fry  them  a  light  brown  in  butter,  after  dipping  them 
in  flour.  Chop  a  little  thyme,  parsley,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  an 
onion  or  garlic  sliced  fine,  mix  the  whole  in  a  little  wine  vinegar  and 
water  and  pour  it  on  the  frogs  and  stew  till  tender;  add  the  yolk  of 
one  beaten  eg-;  to  each  frog  and  serve  them  hot.  It  is  equal  to  or 
better  than  chicken,  fur  I  ate  them  several  times  without  knowing  it, 
believing  that  it  was  the  best  prepared  chicken  I  had  ever  eaten, 
while  a  passenger  on  an  Oriental  and  Peninsular  steamer. 

FRIED  FROGS. — Wash' the  hind  legs  of  some  frogs,  clean  and  dry 
them.  Mix  together  some  salt,  pepper  and  finely-chopped  parsley 
and  strew  the  mixture  over  the  frogs.  Let  them  stand  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  turn  them  in  flour,  beaten  up  egg  and  finely-grated 
bread  crumbs  in  the  same  manner  as  calves'  brains,  and  finish  in  the 
same  way. 

EELS. 

STEWED  EELS. — Cut  2  Ibs.  of  eels  4  inches  long,  put  in  a  stew  pan 
with  one  large  onion,  some  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  mace  and  all- 
spice together,  1-2  pint  of  port  wine  and  1-2  pint  of  gravy;  a  small 
portion  of  bloater  paste,  2  spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup  ;  let  them 
stew  3-4  of  an  hour,  strain  the  gravy,  thicken  it,  add  salt  and  pep- 
per with  the  juice  of  1-2  lemon,  boil  it  5  minutes,  add  the  eel  and  12 
buttons  of  onions,  boil  till  tender.  Trout  and  salmon  may  be  dressed 
in  the  same  way. 

To  FRY  EELS. — Clean  them  thoroughly,  cut  them  in  pieces,  sea- 
son them  with,  pepper  and  salt,  beat  up  an  egg  and  dip  the-eels 
therein,  after  which  strew  some  crumbs  over  them,  then  fl<  ur  and  fry 
them  in  butler  or  lard;  strain  them  when  done  and  serve  them 
with  plain  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  parsley  and  butter;  gar- 
nish with  crisped  parsley. 

CHOWDERS. 

CHOWDER  No.  i — (Common  sense.) — Take  i  pound  of  salt  pork, 
cut  it  into  strips  and  soak  in  hot  water  6  minutes,  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  pot  with  a  layer  of  this ;  cut  4  Ibs.  of  cod  or  sea  bass  into 


OYSTERS.  71 

pieces  2  inches  square  and  lay  enough  of  these  on  the  pork  to  cover 
it,  follow  with  a  layer  of  chopped  onions,  a  little  parsley,  summer 
savory  and  pepper,  either  black  or  cayenne,  then  a  layer  of  but- 
ter crackers,  or  whole  cream  crackers  which  have  been  soaked 
in  warm  water  until  moist  through,  but  not  ready  to  break.  Above 
this  lay  a  stratum  of  pork  and  repeat  in  the  order  as  above  :  onions, 
seasoning  (not  too  much),  crackers  and  pork  until  your  materials 
are  exhausted.  Let  the  topmost  layer  be  butter  crackers  well 
soaked.  Pour  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  all  barely  ;  cover  the 
pot,  stew  gently  for  i  hour,  watching  that  the  water  does  not  sink 
too  low.  Should  it  leave  the  upper  layer  exposed  replenish  cau- 
tiously from  the  boiling  tea  kettle  ;  when  the  chowder  is  thoroughly 
done  take  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  put  into  a  tureen. 
Thicken  the  gravy  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  about  the  same 
quantity  of  butter.  Boil  up  and  pour  over  the  chowder.  Send 
sliced  lemon,  pickles  and  stewed  tomatoes  to  table  with  it,  which  the 
guests  may  add  if  they  like. 

CATFISH  CHOWDER  (common  sense.) — Skin,  clean  and  cut  off  the 
heads.  Cut  the  fish  into  pieces  2  inches  long  and  put  into  a  pot 
with  some  fat  pork  cut  into  shreds  ;'  a  pound  to  a  dozen  medium 
sized  fish,  2  chopped  onions,  or  1-2  dozen  shallots,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs  and  pepper.  The  pork  will  salt  it  sufficiedtly ;  ste\v  slowly 
for  3-4  hour,  then  stir  in  a  cup  of  milk  thickened  with  a  tablespoon- 
Jill  of  flour ;  take  up  a  cupful  of  the  hot  liquor  and  stir  a  little  at  a 
time,  into  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Return  thh  to  the  pot,  throw  in  1-2 
dozen  soda  or  butter  crackers  split  in  half,  let  all  boil  up  once  and 
turn  into  a  tureen.  Pass  sliced  lemon  or  cucumber  pickles,  also 
sliced,  with  it.  Take  out  the  backbones  before  serving. 

CHOWDER  (Southern.) — Fry  in  a  large  pot  some  pieces  of  fat  pork 
well  seasoned  with  pepper;  when  done  remove  the  pork  and  put  in 
some  siices  peeled  onions,  then  some  fresh  fish,  catfish,  rock  sea  bass, 
codfish,  pike  or  halibut,  with  a  layer  of  sliced  Irish  potatoes ;  add 
i  pint  of  milk  thickened  with  a  little  flour. 

OYSTERS. 

OYSTER  CULTIVATION. — Interior  salt  lakes  are  favorable  to  the  cul- 
tivation of  the  oyster,  and  for  this  purpose  the  ancients  resorted 
to  them.  To  arrest  the  drifting  ova,  hurdles  of  brush,  turf,  walls 
of  stone  and  enclosures  of  posts  were  used,  as  the  ova  will  attach 
itself  to  anything  by  a  calculus  growth  emanating  from  the  shell 
itself.  Tranquil  waters  are  best.  The  French  use  sluices  covered 
with  a  cement  stuck  in  the  oyster  beds.  They  thrive  better  in  a 
semi-tropical  climate.  The  Lynn  Haven  bay  oysters  and  Ceylon  oys- 


72  OYSTERS. 

ters  are  the  largest  and  best  known,  and  might  be  cultivated  with  suc- 
cess in  the  salt  marshes  and  peaceful  coves,  and  salt  inlets  of  the 
Pacific  coast,  as  it  is  done  on  the  Atlantic. 

To  STEW  OYSTERS. — Plump,  juicy  oysters  alone  will  stew  to  ad- 
vantage. When  opened  pick  them  out,  beard  and  wash  them  in 
their  own  liquor  and  strain  repeatedly.  Put  them  into  an  enamelled 
sauce  pan  or  one  of  bell-metal,  with  a  little  mace  and  lemon 
peel  and  a  few  pepper  corns,  a  little  butter  kneaded  in  flour  and 
a  glass  'of  cream  or  Champagne  if  for  a  high  relish,  in  which 
case  a  very  little  parsley  or  onion,  and  cayenne  may  be  added. 
Cover  and  simmer  the  oysters  very  gently  for  5  minutes,  lift  them 
up  with  a  silver,  wooden  or  porcelain  ladle  into  a  deep  hot  dish  with 
toasted  slices  of  bread  in  it  and  strain  the  sauce  over  them. 

To  STEW  OYSTERS  IN  FRENCH  ROLLS. — Wash  the  oysters  in  their 
own  liquor,  then  strain  and  put  them  in  again  with  salt,  ground  pep- 
per, beaten  mace  and  grated  nutmeg  ;  stew  these  together  for  a 
short  time  and  thicken  the  whole  with  butter.  Cut  off  the  tops  of  a 
few  French  rolls  and  take  out  as  much  of  the  crumb  as  to  admit 
some  of  the  oysters,  filling  them  in  boiling  hot.  Then  set  them  ove-. 
a  stove  or  chafing  dish  till  they  are  heated  through,  filling  them  up 
with  more  liquor  or  gravy  as  the  fish  is  absorbed.  Serve  them  up  as 
puddings. 

OYSTERS  STEWED  (home  fashion.) — Take  i  dozen  large  oysters  in 
their  liquor,  bring  them  to  a  boil,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  a  piece 
of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  add  1-2  teaspoonful  of  spiced 
vinegar  and  serve  with  cracker  and  biscuit. 

STEAK  WITH  OYSTEUS. — Cut  the  steak  rather  thick,  brown  it  in  a 
frying  pan  with  butter,  add  1-2  pint  of  water,  an  onion  sliced,  pep- 
per and  salt,  cover  the  pan  close  and  let  it  stew  very  slowly  for  one 
hour,  then  add  a  glass  of  port  wine,  a  little  flour  and  a  dozen  or  two 
of  oysters,  their  liquor  having  been  previously  strained  and  put  into 
the  stew  pan. 

To  STEW  OYSTERS. — Open  the  can  at  the  bottom,  take  the  oys- 
ters out  carefully,  separate  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  and  put  it  in  a 
stew  pan  ;  then  adding  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  milk,  a  lump  of 
butter  and  a  little  black  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  the  mixture  well  and 
let  it  boil,  then  put  the  oysters  in  the  pan  until  thoroughly  heated  ; 
then  serve  them  up. 

CREAM  OYSTER  PIE. — (B.  S.  T.) — Line  a  pie  plate  with  good  puff 
paste,  fill  it  with  slices  of  stale  bread  laid  evenly  within  it,  butter  that 
part  of  the  crust  lining  the  rim  of  the  dish  and  cover  with  atop  crust. 
Bake  quickly  in  a  brisk  oven  while  still  hot,  dexterously  and  carefully 
lift  the  upper  crust,  and  the  buttered  rim  will  cause  it  to  separate  easily 
from  the  lower.  Have  ready  a  mixture  of  minced  oysters  and  thick 


OYSTERS.  73 

ened  cream  prepared  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  and  having 
taken  out  the  stale  bread  (put  there  to  keep  the  top  crust  in  shape,) 
fill  the  pie  with  the  oyster  cream,  replace  the  cover  and  set  in  the 
oven  a  few  minutes  or  until  hot,  and  serve.  This  is  a  nice  luncheon 
dish  and  not  amiss  for  supper. 

OYSTERS  ESCOLOPED. — Put  24  oysters  in  a  stew  pan  with  their 
liquor,  set  on  the  stove  ;  when  a  little  firm  put  them  to  drain  upon 
a  sieve,  catching  the  liquor  in  another  stew  pan.  Remove  the  beards 
from  the  oysters  and  throw  them  again  into  their  liquor;  add  one  half 
blade  of  mace,  place  again  upon  the  fire,  and  when  boiling  add  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  with  which  you  have  mixed  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour;  shake  over  the  fire  until  it  becomes  thick,  season 
with  a  little  cayenne  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  if  liked,  have  an  escalop 
shell  well  buttered  and  bread-crumbed,  place  the  oysters  in,  sprinkle 
over  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  powder,  set  in  the  stove  1-4  hour,  pass 
the  salamander  over  and  serve.  The  yolks  of  eggs  may  be  added 
and  less  flour. 

To  STEW  OYSTERS  (A  Maryland  receipt.) — Use  no  water,  but 
cook  gently  ;  stew  in  their  own  juice  in  a  sauce  pan.  Allow  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  to  every  dozen  oysters,  pepper  and 
salt,  2  bay  leaves,  a  blade  or  more  of  mace  ;  simmer  for  five  min- 
utes, add  a  gill  of  cream,  shake  them  well  together,  turn  them  out, 
and  as  they  lie  in  the  saucer  grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  each  oyster. 

STEWED  OYSTERS — (Mrs.  Andrews.) — Mix  1-2  cup  of  butter  and 
i  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  put  the  oysters  in  a  porcelain  kettle, 
stir  until  they  boil  and  add  2  cups  of  cream  or  milk ;  salt  to  taste. 
In  stewing  do  not  use  the  oyster  liquor. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. — (Mrs.  Orton.) — Stew  the  oysters,  take  the  broth 
and  allow  the  yolk  of  i  egg  to  every  dozen  oysters,  turn  off  the  broth 
and  add  the  eggs  ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  turn  back  the  oysters 

ROASTED  OYSTERS — (Mexican  receipt.) — Collect  your  oysters  from 
the  bed  and  roast  them  over  a  quick  fire  till  they  become  dry  but  not 
parched,  turn  them  out  on  a  metalic  piate  without  any  liquor,  use 
no  salt,  add  heaped  tablespoonful  of  butter,  set  the  plate  over  a  bra- 
zier of  coals  or  spirit  lamp.  When  the  butter  is  melted  add  a  gill  of 
Madeira  wine  and  pepper  to  taste. 

ROAST  LYNN  HAVEN  OYSTERS. — While  alive  place  the  oysters  in  a 
shell  upon  a  good  fire  (of  coals  is  the  best)  let  them  remain  till 
the  shells  begin  to  open,  then  take  them  off,  open  them  on  a  plate. 
For  seasoning  use  only  pepper  and  salt.  Prepared  thus  they  are  ex- 
cellent for  delicate  stomachs. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. — Wipe  them  dry,  dip  each  one  in  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg,  roll  in  very  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  first  sea- 
soning them  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready  pieces  of  well  but- 


74  OYSTERS. 

tered  foolscap  paper,  cut  large  enough  to  roll  each  oyster  in  a  separ- 
ate piece,  twist  the  ends  securely  and  lay  them  on  a  gridiron  suffi- 
ciently elevated  to  secure  them  from  scorching  till  hot.  Have  ready 
the  dish  upon  which  they  are  to  be  served  hot  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter;  turn  upon  it  the  oysters,  roll  them  in  the  butter  and  serve 
immediately.  Use  an  extempore  seasoning  of  cider  vinegar, 
lemon  juice,  or  celery  vinegar,  as  may  be  preferred. 

NORFOLK  RECIPK  FOR  FRYING  OYSTERS. — Dip  the  oysters  into  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  and  afterwards  roU  them  in  bread  crumbs  or  corn 
meal  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard.  Each  oyster  should  be  wiped  dry 
before  dipping  it  into  the  egg  or  bread  crumbs.  If  gravy  should  be 
liked,  pour  a  little  of  the  oyster  liquor  in,  just  let  it  come  to  a  boil 
and  serve  at  once  in  a  sauce  boat.  Gravy  should  never  be  poured 
over  anything  fried  in  bufter.  It  injures  its  appearance.  Always 
choose  the  largest  oysters  for  frying. 

SPICED  OYSTERS. — One  hundred  oysters,  i  dozen  cloves,  2  dozen 
allspice,  mace,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Strain  the  liquor 
through  a  sieve,  put  it  into  a  sauce-pan,  add  the  oysters,  spice,  pep- 
per, salt  and  1-2  pint  of  good  cider  vinegar.  Place  them  over  a 
slow  fire,  and  as  soon  as  they  boil  take  them  up  and  pour  them  into  a 
large  bowl  and  set  to  cool.  When  cold,  cover  close. 

To  PICKLE  OYSTERS. — Drain  off  the  liquor  from  too  oysters, 
wash  them  and  put  to  them  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  cider  vinegar.  Let  them  simmer  over  the  fire  for  10  minutes, 
taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  then  take  out  the  oysters  and  put  to 
their  own  liquor  a  tablespoonful  of  whole  black  pepper,  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  mace  and  cloves.  Let  it  boil  5  minutes,  skim  and  pour  over 
the  oysters  in  a  jar. 

OYSTERS  A  LA  CREME — (Mrs.  Legeon)  — One  quart  of  oysters,  i 
pint  of  cream,  put  the  oysters  in  a  double  kettle,  cook  until  the  milky 
juice  begins  to  flow  out;  drain  the  oysters  in  a  colander ;  put  the 
cream  on  in  the  same  way ;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  thicken  with 
flour  wet  with  milk,  as  thick  as  corn  starch  ready  to  mould;  then 
put  in  the  oysters  and  cook  5  minutes/  Serve  hot  on  toast. 

OYSTERS  BOILED  IN  THE  SH^LL. — Take  large,  unopened  shell  oys- 
ters, scrape  and  wash  very  clean.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  on  the  fire;  then,  in  a- dish  have  melted  butter,  with  minced 
parsley,  a  lemon  cut  in  two  on  a  small  flat  dish  ;  carefully  put  the 
oysters,  one  by  one,  into  the  hard  boiling  water.  Let  them  remain 
4  or  5  minutes,  then  pour  off  all  the  water  by  inverting  the  kettle 
over  a  large  colander,  then  wipe  the  shells  dry  and  send  them  to  the 
table  on  a  hot  dish  ;  put  a  little  hot  liquid  butter  over  each,  with 
pepper ;  squeeze  over  a  little  lemon  juice  before  eating  it  from  the 
shell. 


CRABS,  ETC.  75 

BROILED  OYSTERS. — One  quart  of  the  finest  and  largest  oysters 
that  you  can  obtain,  1-2  cup  of  bread  dust  or  cracker  powder,  sifted, 
i  1-2  heaped  tablespoonfuis  of  melted  butter,  pepper  to  suit.  Lay 
the  oysters  on  a  clean  cloth  and  cover  with  another  to  dry  them  ;  dip 
one  at  a  time  in  the  melted  and  peppered  butter,  turn  them  over  and 
over  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  broil  upon  an  oyster  wire  gridiron 
over  a  clear  fire.  The  oysters  can  be  turned  when  one  side  is  done. 
They  \vi.i  be  done  in  5  or  6  minutes,  then,  in  a  hot  dish  containing 
the  peppered  butter,  lay  the  oysters  and  send  them  to  table  hot. 

DEVILED  OYSTERS. — Half  gallon  oysters,  some  cayenne  pepper, 
lemon  juice,  and  enough  melted  butter  to  suit,  2  eggs  beaten  very 
light,  i  cup  of  cracker  powder;  wipe  the  oysters  dry  and  lay  them 
on  a  flat  dish.  Then  mix  the  melted  butter,  cayenne  pepper  and 
lemon  juice,  and  pour  over  the  oysters,  turn  them  irequently  in  the 
preparation,  rolled  first  in  the  beaten  eggs,  and  then  in  the  bread  pow- 
der; put  in  your  frying-pan  an  equal  proportion  of  lard  and  butter 
made  very  hot,  then  dip  in  your  oysters.  In  the  mixture  pepper- 
sauce  may  be  substituted  for  cayenne  pepper. 

OYS  i  ;;R  PATTIKS. — Mince,  with  a  very  sharp,  thin-bladed  knife,  a 
quart  of  oysters  very  fine,  a  large  spoonful  of  melted  butter  in  a  cup- 
tul  of  new  cream  or  milk,  and  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  rice 
flour  made  into  a  paste  with  cold  milk ;  salt  and  pepper  to  relish. 
When  the  oysters  are  thoroughly  drained,  mince  them  as  directed. 
In  the  boiled  and  thickened  milk,  and  the  butter  well  pervading  it, 
add  and  stir  in  the  minced  oysters,  stirring  constantly,  and  let  them 
stew  for  five  minutes.  Having  filled  your  shapes  with  a  nicely- 
baked  pastry  crust,  pour  in  your  oyster  mixture  and  set  in  the  stove 
for  2  or  3  minutes  to  heat  thoroughly  and  send  to  the  table  immedi- 
ately. 

CEABS,  Etc, 

To  BOIL  CRABS. — Boil  them  a  moment;  pick  out  all  the  meat, 
and,  mixing  it  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salad  oil,  French  mustard,  cay- 
enne, white  or  black  pepper  and  salt,  serve  it  in  the  shell  or  on  a 
plate. 

BOILKD  CRABS. — Take  thirty  of  the  largest  crabs  you  can  procure, 
wash  them  and  put  them  into  a  suitable  pan  with  2  oz  butter,  a 
handful  of  whole  parsley ;  now  pour  over  them  a  ladleful  of  boiling 
vinegar  or  wine ;  cover  the  pan,  boil  the  crabs  10  minutes,  when 
they  will  have  acquired  a  pretty  red  color;  dish  them  on  a  napkin, 
ornament  them  with  fresh  parsley  and  send  them  to  the  table  as  hot- 
as  possible. 

STEAMED   CRABS. — Cut   up  crabs.     Have   a  pot  ready  with  2  or 


76  LOBSTERS. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  lard;  stir  in  a  handful  oi  onions  cut  fine  ; 
when  brown,  stir  in  a  couple  of  tablespoonfuls  flour,  then  throw  in 
the  crabs  and  stir  until  almost  dry.  Then  add  enough  boiling  water 
to  cover  up  to  steam.  Keep  the  cover  on  tightly  until  done. 

How  TO  COOK  CRABS. — Pick  the  flesh  from  the  crabs,  then  make 
a  forcemeat  of  3  or  4  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  very  finely,  with  some  red 
pepper  (the  inside),  that  has  been  boiled  and  chopped,  some  salt,  on- 
ions minced  and  half-cooked,  then  add  the  boiled  and  minced  crab, 
the  eggs,  a  little  butter  or  sweet  lard.  Mix  well  and  stuff  the  well 
washed  shells  of  the  crabs  and  bake  it. 

To  STEW  MUSCLES. — Wash  in  several  waters,  put  them  into,  a  stew 
pan  and  cover  them  closely.  Let  them  stew  till  the  shells  open,  then 
pick  out  the  fish  and  examine  under  the  tongue  of  each  to  see  if  there 
be  a  small  crab,  and  if  there  is,  throw  it  away.  Pick  out  likewise  the 
tough  membrane  under  the  tongue.  Then  put  the  muscles  into  a 
stew-pan,  adding  to  every  quart  of  fish  1-2  pint  of  the  liquor  strained 
through  a  sieve.  Put  in  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  stew  them  gently.  Lay  some  toasted  bread  in 
the  dish,  pour  the  muscles  on  it  and  serve  them  up. 

LOBSTERS. 

When  this  dish  was  to  be  served  for. the  table  among  the  ancients 
it  was  spread  lengthwise  and  filled  with  a  gravy  composed  of  corian- 
der and  pepper.  It  was  then  put  on  the  gridiron  and  slowly  cooked, 
while  it  was  being  basted  with  the  same  kind  of  gravy  with  which  the 
flesh  was  being  impregnated. 

To  STEW  LOBSTKRS. — Pick  out  the  meat  and  put  it  into  a  dish; 
add  a  little  butter,  2  spoonfuls  of  gravy,  i  spoonful  of 
cayenne  pepper  or  walnut  catsup  some  salt,  black  pepper  and  a 
spoonful  of  port  wine.  Stew  the  lobster  with  the  gravy. 

LOBSTER  BOILED — Boil  it  plain,  then  secure  the  crustacea,  put  in 
a  dish  or  bowl  and  serve  with  a  dressing  of  olive  oil,  vinegar  or  lem- 
on juice,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  stir  well,  and  a  little  chopped  head 
of  lettuce  may  be  added. 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS. — Cut  the  lobster  in  slices,  letting  the  flesh  weigh 
about  1-2  lb.,  when  done  put  in  a  pan  2  oz.  butter,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  chopped  onions ;  put  all  on  the  fire,  fry  for  2  minutes,  add 
1-2  pint  of  milk;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  i  salt-spoonful  of 
cayenne,  2  teaspoonfuls  chopped  parsley ;  let  it  boil  for  a  minute 
or  two,  stirring  all  the  time  ;  add  your  lobster  and  give  it  a  boil ; 
•add  2  yolks  of  eggs  ;  mix  quickly,  put  on  a  dish  to  cool ;  when 
quite  cool  and  firm,  divide  in  6  parts,  give  each  the  shape  of  a 
small  cutlet ;  egg  and  bread  crumb  twice.  Put  a  piece  of  the 


GRAVIES.  77 

very  small  claw  to  the  end  of  each  cutlet,  so  as  to  form  a  bone; 
fry  for  a  few  minutes,  like  you  would  a  sole,  in  plenty  of  fat; 
lay  on  a  cloth  and  serve  on  a  napkin  with  plenty  of  fried  pars- 
ley. You  may  adopt  any  shape  you  choose,  if  cutlets  are  too 
troublesome,  as  you  would  croquettes.  No  sauce  is  requisite.  The 
lobster,  in  the  preceding  recipe,  may  be  prepared,  shaped  and 
bread  crumbed  hours  before  wanted. 

LOBSTKR  BOILKD. — Allow  r-2  a  Ib.  of  salt  to  every  gallon  of 
water,  and  t^en  put  a  number  of  the  lobsters  in  one  basket  and  put 
a  weight  on  it  to  keep  them  down.  Do  not  cook  them  too  much  or 
they  may  become  tough. 

To  BOIL  LOBSTERS. — As  the  dealers  often  starve  them,  by  which 
means  they  are  very  unsavory,  consequently,  it  is  advisable  to  pur- 
chase them  alive.  Choose  the  most  active,  and  of  a  middling  size, 
but  avoid  such  as  have  their  shell  incrusted,  for  it  is  a  sign  that  they 
are  old.  The  male  is  best  to  eat,  and  the  female  for  sauce.  Set  on 
a  pot  with  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  \\akr,  and  when  it 
boils,  put  in  the  lobster  and  keep  it  boiling  briskly  for  i-?  an  hour  or 
i  hour,  according  to  size.  Wipe  off  the  scum  and  rub  the  shell  with 
oil  or  buttter,  break  off  the  great  claws,  crack  them  at  the  joints,  so 
as  not  to  shatter  them,  cut  the  tail  down  the  middle  and  send  up  the 
body  entire.  N.  B. — Lobsters  are  not  good  in  spawning  season. 

GRAVIES. 

To  DRAW  BEF.F  GRAVY. — Cup  up  any  coarse  beef  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible, put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  cover  it,  put  no  water  or  butter  in 
it,  but  throw  over  it  a  few  grains  of  salt,  put  it  at  the  side  of 
the  fire  till  the  gravy  oozes  from  the  meat  and  -glazes  on  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  ;  then  pour  in  as  much  hot  broth  as  will  cover 
the  meat,  and  let  it  stew  until  all  the  juice  is  extracted.  This 
juice  gravy  may  afterwards  be  enriched  by  seasoning,  or  flavored 
with  herbs,  but  if  not  wanted  immediately  it  should  be  set  aside 
to  cool,  and  the  fat  which  may  collect  over  it  should  not  be  re- 
moved until  the  gravy  is  wanted. 

ECONOMICAL  GRAVY  FOR  POULTKY. — Wash  the  feet  nicely  and  cut 
them  and  the  neck  small ;  simmer  them  with  a  little  bread  browned, 
a  slice  of  onion,  a  bit  of  parsley  and  thyme,  some  pepper  and 
salt  and  the  liver  and  gizzard  in  i  gill  of  water,  until  1-2  reduced  ; 
take  out  the  liver,  bruise  and  strain  the  liquor  from  it,  then  thicken 
it  with  flour  and  butter;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  mushroom  catsup 
and  it  will  be  very  good. 

VEAL  GRAVY  is  made  like  brown  gravy,  leaving  out  the  spices, 
herbs  and  flour. 


78  GRAVIES. 

GRAVY  WHICH  GIVES  VENISON  FLAVOR  TO  MUTTON. — Pick  a  stale 
wild  fowl,  cut  it  to  pieces,  after  cleansing  it,  and  simmer  with  as 
much  unseasoned  meat  gravy  as  is  necessary.  Strain  it  and  serve 
it  in  the  dish  with  the  mutton. 

GRAVY  for  fried  chicken  is  made  in  the  same  may,  only  adding 
pinched  parsley  leaves,  then  pour  over  the  chicken  in  a  dish.  It  is 
very  nice. 

GUAVY  FOR  WILD  FOWL. — To  i  wineglass  of  port  wine  add  a  ta- 
blespoonful  of  walnut  catsup,  mushroom  catsup,  tomato  catsup  and 
lemon  juice,  i  shallot  or  onion,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel  and  a  blade  of 
mace  ;  these  should  be  scalded,  strained  and  added  to  the  pure 
gravy  that  comes  from  the  fowl  in  roasting.  The  breast  of  the  fowl 
should  be  scored  in  3  or  4  places,  and  the  gravy  poured  boiling  hot 
over  it  before  it  is  sent  to  the  table. 

STRONG  FISH  GRAVY. — After  cleaning  2  or  3  fish,  gut  and  wash 
them  very  clean,  cut  them  into  small  pieces  and  put  them  into  a 
sauce-pan ;  cover  them  with  water  and  add  a  little  crust  of  bread 
toasted  brown,  2  blades  of  mace,  some  whole  peppers,  parsley, 
thyme  and  sage,  apiece  of  lemon  peel,  2  smelts  chopped  fine  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  rasped  horseradish.  Cover  closely  and  simmer ;  add 
a  bit  of  butter  and  flour  and  boil  with  the  above. 

BROWN  GRAVY? — Lay  over  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan  as  much  lean 
veal  as  will  cover  it  an  inch  thick,  then  cover  the  veal  with  thin  slices 
of  undressed  gammon,  2  or  3  onions,  2- or  3  bay  leaves  or  a  sprig  of 
sw..tt  myrtle,  some  parsley,  thyme,  sage,  mint,  2  or  3  blades  of  mace 
and  3  cloves ;  cover  the  stew-pan  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  but 
when  the  juices  come  out,  let  the  fire  be  a  little  quicker ;  when  the 
meat  is  of  a  fine  brown,  fill  the  pan  with  good  beef  broth,  boil  and 
skim  it,  then  simmer  an  hour  and  add  a  little  water  mixed  with  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  it  properly  thick;  boil  it  1-2  an  hour  and 
strain  it. 

CARUIKL  OR  BURNED  SUGAR. — The  utensils  used  can  be  of  no 
service  afterwards.  Any  old  tin  cup  or  ladle  is  good  for  this  pur- 
pose. White  is  better  than  brown  sugar,  having  a  finer  flavor.  Put 
2  oz.  sugar  over  a  rather  sharp  fire ;  stir  with  a  stick  till  it  is  black 
and  begins  to  send  forth  a  burning  smell.  Add  a  gill  or  so  of  cold 
water,  stir  and  boil  gently  4  or  5  minutes,  take  off,  cool  and  bottle 
for  use.  It  will  keep  for  weeks,  and  may  be  used  hot  or  cold. 

BROWMNG  FOR  GRAVIES,  SOUPS,  ETC. — Lump  sugar  dissolved, 
2  1-2  Ibs. ;  solid  oil,  1-2  Ib. ;  heat  in  an  iron  vessel  until  quite  brown, 
then  add  California  port  wine,  4  cupfuls  ;  Cape  wine,  3  quarts  ;  shal- 
lot, 6  oz.  ;  mixed  spices,  4  oz  ;  black  pepper,  3  oz. ;  salt,  3-4  Ib.  ; 
mace,  i  oz. ;  lemon  juice,  1-2  pint;  catsup,  i  quart.  This  can  be 
kept  in  closely  covered  jars  or  bottles  to  be  used  when  wanted. 


GRAVIES.  79 

To  CLARIFY  DRIPPING. — Put  the  dripping  into  a  basin,  pour  over 
it  the  boiling  water,  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  has  been  dissolved, 
and  keep  stirring  the  whole  to  wash  away  impurities.  Let  it  stand 
to  cool,  when  the  water  and  dirty  sediment  will  settle  at  the  bottom, 
and  the  grease  rise  to  the  top.  Repeat  this  operation  at  least  twice 
with  fresh  water.  When  cold  remove  the  dripping  from  the  water 
and  melt  it  into  jars. 

OSMAZOME  is  the  essence  or  gravy  of  meat  when  cooked. 

To  MAKE  chestnut  or  almond  gravy  for  any  kind  of  fowl,  allow  1-2 
Ib.  of  the  nuts,  blanched  and  peeled,  to  2  coffee  cups  of  rich  veal 
soup,  i  cupful  of  new  milk,  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per, 1-2  peel  of  a  good  lemon  cut  in  thin  shreds,  and  then  chopped 
fine.  Put  all  together  and  boil  very  slowly  and  gently  until  the  nut 
kernels  are  soft;  then  force  it  through  a  sieve  and  pour  in  milk  or 
cream,  with  spice,  nutmeg  and  one  beaten  clove  ;  then  let  it  warm 
slowly  again  when  coming  to  a  boil,  stirring  it  all  the  time. 

GENERAL  STOCK  FOR  GRAVIES. — The  recipes  for  custard  sauce. 
Dutch  sauce  for  fish  or  for  pickling  eggs,  will  answer  very  well  for 
the  basis  of  many  gravies,  unless  they  are  required  to  be  very  rich. 
The  stocks  referred  to  may  be  made  into  very  good  gravies  by  add- 
ing various  store  sauces,  thickening  and  flavoring.  Spices,  wines 
and  flavorings  should  not  be  added  until  they  are  wanted,  as  their 
goodness,  strength  and  a  great  deal  of  their  fragrance  evaporates  if 
used  long  before  wanted,  as  with  long  boiling  the  flavoring  must  al- 
most entirely  pass  away.  A  great  deal  is  thus  saved  if  this  point  is 
attended  to.  Shank  bones  of  mutton  previously  soaked  will  aid 
very  materially  in  enriching  gravies.  Trimmings  of  meat,  beef  skin, 
a  smelt  or  kidney,  etc.,  will  answer  very  well  when  only  a  small  quantity 
is  required.  A  good  gravy  need  not  necessarily  be  so  expensive,  for 
economically  prepared  dishes  are  often  found  as  savory,  palatable 
and  wholesome  as  more  expensive  ones.  The  cook  should  bear  in 
mind  that  the  fragrance  of  spices  should  not  prevail  over  the  gravies. 
The  remains  of  most  meat  gravy  should  always  be  saved,  as,  when 
no  gravy  is  at  hand,  a  very  nice  gravy  in  haste  may  be  made  from 
it,  and  when  added  to  hashes,  ragouts,  etc.,  is  a  great  improvement. 

GRAVY  FOR  ROAST  MEAT. — Put  a  common  dish  with  a  small  quan- 
tity of  salt  in  it  under  the  meat,  about  1-4  hour  before  it  is  removed 
from  the  fire ;  when  the  dish  is  full  take  it  away,  baste  the  meat  and 
pour  the  gravy  into  the  dish  in  which  the  joint  is  to  be  served. 

HAM  GRAVY. — When  a  ham  is  almost  done  with,  pick  all  the  meat 
clean  from  the  bone,  leaving  out  any  rusty  part;  beat  the  meat  and 
the  bone  to  a  mash  with  a  chopper  and  rollingpin  ;  put  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  3  spoonfuls  of  gravy ;  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  and  stir  it  all 
the  time,  or  it  will  stick  to  the  bottom  ;  when  it  has  been  on  for  some 


8O  TURTLES. 

time,  put  in  some  parsley,  thyme,  celery,  some  pepper  and  1-2  pint 
of  beef  gravy  ;  cover  it  up  and  let  it  stew  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  when 
it  has  a  good  flavor  of  the  bacon  strain  off  the  gravy.  A  little  of 
this  is  an  improvement  to  all  gravies. 

GRAVY  FOR  FRIED  HAM. — After  frying  the  bacon  slices,  take  them 
up  and  have  some  new  milk  or  cream  to  stir  in  the  grease  while  hot, 
or  it  is  best  to  stir  in  i  teaspoonful  of  dry  flour  before  adding  the 
milk  with  a  small  portion  of  black  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Four 
this  over  the  ham.  Some  like  a  little  minced  tops  of  green  shallots 
added  to  the  gravy. 

CLEAR  GRAVY. — Slice  beef  thin  ;  broil  a  part  of  it  over  a  a  very 
clear,  quick  fire,  just  enough  to  give  color  to  the  gravy,  but  not  to 
dress  it ;  put  that  and  the  raw  part  into  a  very  nicely  tinned  stew- 
pan  with  2  onions,  a  clove  or  two,  whole  black  peppers,  berries  of 
allspice,  parsley,  thyme  and  a  small  bit  of  sage  ;  cover  it  with  hot 
water,  give  it  one  boil  and  skim  it  well  two  or  three  times  ;  cover  it  and 
simmer  till  quite  strong. 

TURTLES. 

The  mud  tortoise  and  terrapins  lay  a  great  many  eggs.  Their 
flesh  is  often  eaten. 

The  river  tortoise  has  a  soft  shell.  Their  flesh  is  much  esteemed. 
They  deposit  from  50  to  60  eggs  in  one  night  on  the  shores  of 
the  Amazon.  They  dig  with  their  paws  a  hole  3  feet  deep  in  the 
sand  to  deposit  their  eggs,  about  120  in  number,  cover  them  over 
with  the  sand,  a  second  deposit,  and  so  on,  till  the  hole  or  pit  is  full, 
which  contains  300  to  400  eggs,  which  takes  14  days.  The  turtle  eggs 
are  much  esteemed  for  their  richness  and  flavor.  The  soft  flesh  of 
the  sea  turtle  is  healthy  and  nourishing.  The  fat  of  many  species, 
when  fresh,  is  used  as  a  substitute  for  oil  or  butter. 

The  green  turtle  is  celebrated  for  the  excellency  of  its  fat,  from 
which  turtle  soup  is  made,  which  is  only  of  recent  invention. 

There  are  many  other  turtles  whose  flesh  is  tender,  palatable  and 
wholesome. 

SANDERSON'S  RECEIPT  FOR  COOKING  TERRAPINS. — Put  them  into 
a  pot  of  boiling  water,  let  them  remain  until  dead,  take  them  up,  re- 
move the  outer  skin  and  toe  nails,  wash  the  terrapins  in  warm  wa- 
ter, boil  in  water  enough  to  cover  them  till  tender,  adding  salt 
to  suit  the  taste ;  while  boiling  take  off  the  shells,  remove  the 
sand  bag  and  gall  without  breaking,  add  any  juice  that  may  run 
out  while  cutting  up,  but  no  water;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  1-4 
Ib.  of  fresh  butter  to  each  terrapin  ;  rub  into  the  butter  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  for  the  thickening;  put  these  into  a  stew  pan 


TURTLES.  8 1 

and  stir  well  while  the  butter  is  melting ;  add  4  tablespoonful  s  of 
rich,  sweet  cream,  stir  this  in  well,  add  enough  good  wine  (M  uleira) 
to  give  a  delicious  vinous  taste  to  the  whole.  Stir  frequj.uiy  and 
thoroughly  and  serve  very  hot. 

TURTLE  STEAK — KEY  WEST  WAY  TO  COOK. — (Mrs.  S.M.  Kellogg. 
Fry  in  plenty  of  sweet  butter  a  whole  or  cut  up  turtle  sieak,  season- 
ing with  black  and  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  when  thoroughly 
done  make  a  sauce  of  peeled  ripe  tomatoes  cut  up  fine,  put  into  a 
porcelain  stew  pan  or  one  of  granite  and  stewed  down  rich  and 
thick,  seasoning  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  then  pour  over 
the  steak  and  serve  very  hot. 

NOTE — If  persons  like  it,  some  chopped  onion  or  a  little  garlic 
may  be  added.  When  frying  the  steak  and  tomatoes  are  not  in  season, 
a  rich  cream  gravy  may  be  used  instead. 

TERRAPINS — How  TO  COOK  THEM. — (Mrs.  D.  Thornton,  Cal.) — 
Put  the  terrapins  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  let  them  remain  16 
or  15  minutes,  take  them  out  and  rub  with  a  warm  cloth  all  the  skin 
from  the  head,  neck  and  claws,  also  the  thin  shell  as  it  becomes 
loose.  Wash  them  in  warm  water  and  put  in  a  pot  of  clear  water. 
Add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  boil  them  again  till  thoroughly  done  and 
the  paws  perfectly  soft.  This  will  take  about  3-4  of  an  hour,  and  if 
very  large  i  hour.  Open  them  carefully,  remove  the  sand  bag,  galls 
and  entrails,  but  be  very  careful  not  to  break  the  gall,  as  a  few  drops 
of  it  will  spoil  the  whole,  and  as  it  is  concealed  inside  it  requires 
great  care  to  avoid  breaking  it.  Cut  the  meat  of  the  terrapins  very 
fine,  put  it  into  a  sauce  pan  with  the  juice  they  have  yielded  in  cut- 
ting them  up,  but  no  water ;  season  with  cayenne  or  black  pepper  to 
suit  the  taste.  For  each  terrapin  allow  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter  cut  in  small  pieces  and  dredged  with  flour.  Put  the  butter 
into  a  sauce  pan  with  the  meat ;  add  a  pint  of  sherry  or  Madeira 
wine  to  every  4  terrapins,  let  it  cook  15  minutes;  serve  it  hot ;  3  or 
4  eggs  boiled  hard  and  chopped  fine  may  be  added  when  there  are 
no  eggs  in  the  terrapins.  Four  good  terrapins  of  the  usual  size 
ought  to  make  2  quarts. 

NOTE — The  French  use  the  female  terrapins  only. 

TERRAPINS. — Boil  them  until  the  bones  can  be  easily  removed, 
carefully  take  out  the  sand  bag,  chop  the  meat  very  fine  and  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  i  pint  of  tomato  catsup,  i  gill  of  sherry  or 
Madeira  wine,  i  tablespoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  2  onions  boiled 
and  chopped  fine  ;  salt,  black  and  red  pepper  to  taste  ;  allspice  and 
nutmeg  may  be  used  if  "liked.  Stir  the  mixture  well,  scrape  and 
clean  2  of  the  backs,  line  them  with  puff  paste,  fill  with  the  mix- 
ture, cover  over  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  until  of  a  light 
brown. 


2  PRYING, 

To  COOK  TERRAPINS. — (Arganaut.) — Take  4  female  terrapins, 
throw  them  into  boiling  water,  boil  till  the"  toe  nails  will  remove 
easily,  take  them  up,  and  when  cold  enough  to  handle,  remove 
the  shells,  sand  bag,  the  portion  of  the  liver  that  contains  the 
gall  and  cut  them  in  quarters,  or  smaller,  if  desired.  Take  1-2 
pint  of  soup  stock,  melt  it  and  have  ready  the  hard  boiled  yolks 
of  8  eggs,  pound  them  fine,  let  them  boil  a  few  minutes  in  the 
stock,  then  strain  over  the  terrapins.  Simmer  18  minutes,  add 
i  teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  powdered  mace,  cin- 
namon, allspice,  1-2  Ib.  of  sweet  butter,  1-2  pint  of  sherry,  1-2 
spoonful  of  cloves,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  If  not  thick  enough 
add  more  flour ;  if  too  thick,  thin  with  sherry.  Cook  till  suffi- 
ciently tender.  Add  one  pint  more  of  sherrv  and  set  away  till 
next  day.  When  wanted  heat  in  a  stew  pan 

FKYING. 

Frying  is,  sometimes,  a  very  convenient  mode  of  cooking  if  done 
well;  very  agreeable  as  a  change  ;  but,  if  badly-done,  is  one  of  the 
most  offensive  ways  in  which  good  victuals  can  be  spoiled.  It  may 
be  smoked  for  want  of  attention  to  the  fire  ;  it  may  be  .strong  from 
the  use  of  offensive  dripping ;  it  may  be  sodden  in  fat  from  want  of 
sufficient  briskness  of  fire  to  do  it  properly,  or  it  may  be  scorched 
and  dried  outside  and  slack  in  the  middle,  if  the  fire  is  too  fierce. 
All  these  errors  are  to  be  avoided. 

The  fire  should  be  clear  and  brisk,  and  rather  stronger  than  for 
broiling.  The  frying-pan  should  be  thick  in  the  bottom,  that  it  may 
be  less  liable  to  burn.  The  fat  should  be  sweet  and  fresh  and  clear ; 
free  from  salt ;  either  good  lard  or  dripping,  or,  for  somethings,  oil 
or  butter ;  these  latter,  though  very  delicious,  are  very  extravagant ; 
and  there  is  scarcely  any  purpose  for  which  good  lard  or  dripping,  if 
properly  managed,  will  not  answer  equally  well.  If  butter  is  used 
for  frying,  when  the  steaks  are  finely  browned  on  one  side,  turn  them 
and  cover  the  pan,  which  will  render  them  more  juicy;  pepper  and 
salt  as  for  broiling ;  when  done,  place  them  on  a  hot  dish  by  the 
fire  or  in  a  corner  of  the  stove,  and  add  what  remains  in  the  pan, 
a  little  catsup  and  a  little  good  gravy,  which  boil  up  for  a  moment  or 
two,  and  pour  over  the  steaks.  This  is  the  usual  mode  for  lamb  or 
mutton  chops.  Garnish  with  green  pickles  or  scraped  horseradish. 

Lamb  and  mutton  chops  are  sometimes  egged  and  rolled  in  bread 
crumbs  and  parsley  before  frying. 

Pork  chops  may  be  fried  in  the  same  manner,  dipping  them,  after 
they  are  egged,  in  a  mixture  of  chopped  sage,  onions  and  crumbs  of 
bread,  with  pepper  and  salt. 


BOILING.  83 

Veal  cutlets  may  be  dipped  in  egg  and  seasoned  with  a  mixture  of 
bread  crumbs,  parsley,  lemon  peel  chopped  or  rasped  very  fine,  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  a  sprig  of  lemon,  thyme  or  sweet 
myrtle,  chopped  very  fine. 

When  bacon  is  served  with  liver,  let  either  be  served  in  a  separate 
pan,  or  simmered  until  the  liver  is  nearly  done,  then  put  in  the  fry- 
ing pan  a  minute  or  two  to  brown.  Each  slice  of  bacon  may  be 
laid  on  a  slice  of  liver,  or  around  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

Eggs  and  bacon  are  a  handy  dish  when  a  hasty  meal  is  required. 
A  little  attention  will  render  it  a*  nice  dish. 

The  details  of  frying  fish,  chickens,  etc.,  and  other  modes  of  pre- 
paring dishes,  will  be  specified  in  each  recipe  contained  in  the  sec- 
tions into  which  they  are  divided. 

Cotton  seed  oil  is  excellent  for  frying  purposes 

BOILING. 

REMARKS  ON  BOILING  AND  REDUCTION. — To  cook  satisfactorily 
by  boiling,  a  slow  and  steady  fire  should  be  kept  up.  All  meats 
should  be  put  into  a  vessel  on  the  fire  as  soon  as  the  chill  is  off  the 
water.  Do  not  hasten  the  cooking  by  indiscriminately  heaping  up 
the  fuel.  Once  the  boiling  point  is  reached,  all  excess  of  heat  is 
wasted.  Meat  should  not  be  suffered  to  boil  fast,  as  that  hardens  it.  Be 
careful  that  it  does  not  stop  boiling,  otherwise  you  deceive  yourself, 
and  find  the  meat  at  the  expiration  of  the  time  underdone.  The 
liquor  boils  away  more  rapidly  with  the  lid  off  than  on  ;  consequently, 
for  producing  quick  evaporation,  a  brisk  fire  is  indispensable.  Im- 
mediately on  boiling  up,  the  pot  must  be  well  skimmed,  or  the  scum 
breaks  and  settles  at  the  bottom.  A  glaze  or  sauce,  reduced  too 
slowly,  will  lose  at  once  in  appearance  and  flavor. 

Vegetables  should  not  be  dressed  with  the  meat,  except  carrots, 
parsnips  or  turnips,  with  beef,  mutton  or  pork.  As  to  time,  every 
solid  joint  will  require  1-4  hour  to  a  pound  ;  a  leg  of  pork  or  lamb 
will  require  20  minutes  to  the  pound. 

Families  in  which  these  savings  are  not  necessary  will  do  well, 
nevertheless,  to  practice  saving  the  bones,  coarse  pieces  of  meat, 
vegetables,  gravies,  soups  and  cold  bread  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor 
neighbors,  and  who  can  tell  in  these  times  of  fluctuation  and  uncer- 
tainty how  valuable  habits  of  economy  may  prove  to  themselves  ? 

To  preserve  the  color  of  meat,  blanch  or  scald  it  in  warm  water  a 
few  minutes  before  putting  it  on  the  fire  ;  or,  2d,  shaking  on  a  small 
dust  of  flour;  3d,  very  carefully  skimming  the  pot.  None  of  these 
methods  should  be  avoided,  even  at  a  sacrifice  of  the  juice  of  the 
meat,  which  is  of  far  less  importance  than  its  color. 


84  BROILING. 

A-leg  of  mutton  boils  whitest  when  quite  fresh.  Allow  time  enough 
for  the  water  to  come  slowly  to  a  boil;  if  it  is  made  hastily  the  meat 
is  thereby  hardened.  Be  careful  never  to  run  a  fork  or  anything 
sharp  into  the  meat,  which  drains  its  juice.  When  it  is  to  be  taken 
up  have  a  very  large,  strong  fork,  of  which  set  one  prong  into  the 
shank  bone,  and  slipping  another  urfder  the  end  of  the  joint,  take 
it  up,  pour  a  teacupful  of  the  liquor  over  the  meat,  garnish  with 
slices  of  carrot  and  serve  with  caper  sauce. 

Sheep's  head  may  be  either  plainly  boiled  and  served  with  parsley 
and  butter  or  caper  sauce,  or  a  little  finely  minced  sage  beaten  up 
with  brains. 

Bacon  boiled  requires  20  minutes  to  the  pound,  but  the  time  va- 
ries according  to  the  age  of  the  animal  and  the  manner  of  salting. 
Some  people  like  greens,  cabbages,  etc.,  boiled  with  bacon.  In  that 
case  the  pot  should  be  carefully  skimmed  before  they  are  put  in. 

Ham  is  best  boiled  in  copper;  it  requires  plenty  of  room  and 
slow  and  regular  boiling.  If  it  has  been  long  dried  it  should  be 
soaked  a  night  in  soft  water.  When  done,  remove  the  skin  neatly. 
But  experience  has  taught  me  that  to  keep  a  boiled  ham  several 
days  for  luncheon  or  other  purposes,  it  is  best  not  to  remove  the  skin, 
as  that  serves  to  prevent  it  drying  and  keeps  it  fresher.  Garnish 
with  nasturtium  leaves,  flowers  or  pods.  No  salt  is  added.  If  kept, 
put  in  a  bag  of  thin  muslin  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Black  or  white 
pepper  beaten  fine  should  be  boiled  with  it. 

BROILING. 

BROILING  is  the  most  important  part  of  the  cook's  office.  Meat 
thus  prepared,  if  well  done,  is  the  most  wholesome  and  generally 
the  most  acceptable  to  delicate  or  sickly  stomachs.  It  is  also  in 
frequent  request  in  preparing  a  hasty  meal,  or  for  a  single  indi- 
vidual, and  yet  it  is  an  art  in  which  few  cooks  excell.  The  first 
thing  required  is  attention  to  the  state  of  the  fire,  which  should  be 
clear,  bright  and  perfectly  free  from  smoke.  The  bars  of  the  grid- 
iron or  broiler  should  be  perfectly  clean  and  hot  before  the  meat 
is  put  on ;  let  the  bars  be  wiped  with  a  piece  of  clean  paper  and 
rubbed  with  a  piece  of  fresh  suet  to  prevent  the  meat  from  stick- 
ing or  being  marked  by  the  bars ;  then  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  the 
fire  and  lay  the  meat  on. 

A  broiling  fire  should  be  very  equal,  with  the  fuel  equally  lighted 
in  all  parts. 

All  kinds  of  kidneys  are  good  broiled;  they  must  be  skinned, 
split  and  all  pipe  removed.  When  done,  pepper  and  salt  each  side. 
Save  the  gravy  when  it  rises,  put  catsup  in  the  dish,  and  when  taken 


BROILING.  85 

up  rub  in  a  piece  of  fresh  butter.  Mustard  is  required  with  all  kinds 
of  steaks.  The  rule  given  by  an  epicure  to  his  cook  in  general  ap- 
plies particularly  to  steaks  :  "No  matter  how  much  or  how  little  they 
are  done,  provided  that  all  the  blood  is  out  and  all  the  gravy 
on." 

BROILED  Ox  TAIL. — Two  tails,  11-2  pint  of  stock;  salt  and  cay- 
enne to  taste ;  bread  crumbs,  i  egg.  Joint  and  cut  up  the  tails  into 
convenient  sized  pieces  and  put  them  into  a  stew  pan  with  the  s-tock, 
'  cayenne  and  salt,  and  if  liked,  very  little  savory,  and  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs.  Let  them  stew  gently  for  2  1-2  hours,  then  take  them  out, 
drain  them  and  let  them  cool.  Beat  an  egg  upon  a  plate,  dip  in 
each  piece  of  tail  and  afterwards  throw  them  into  a  dish  of  bread 
crumbs  ;  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire  until  of  a  brownish  color  on  both 
sides  and  serve  with  a  good  gravy  or  any  other  sauce  that  may  be 
preferred ;  about  2  1-2  hours  to  cook ;  seasonable  at  any  time. 

N.  B.  These  may  be  more  easily  prepared  by  putting  the  tails  in 
a  brisk  oven  after  they  have  been  dipped  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs, 
and  when  brown  they  are  done.  They  must  be  boiled  the  same  time 
as  for  broiling. 

BEEF  STEAK  AND  OYSTER  SAUCE. — Three  dozen  oysters,  2  pounds 
of  rump  steak;  season, to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt.  Make  the  oys- 
ter sauce  by  given  receipt,  and  when  hot  it  is  ready  ;  put  it  by  the  side 
of  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  keep  boiling.  Have  the  steak  cut  of 
equal  thickness,  broil  them  in  the  steak  broiler  over  a  very  clear  fire, 
turning  them  often  that  the  gravy  may  not  escape  ;  in  about  eight 
minutes  they  will  be  done ;  put  them  on  a  very  hot  dish,  smother 
with  the  oyster  sauce  and  send  them  to  the  table  in  a  tureen. 
Serve  quickly ;  cook  8  or  10  minutes,  according  to  the  thickness  of 
the  steak. 

To  BROIL  STEAK — (Mrs.  H.'s  receipt. — The  meat  should  be  hung 
several  days  before  using  it,  if  the  weather  is  cool.  Having  hung 
long  enough,  cut  the  steaks  1-2  inch  thick,  3  inches  wide  and  5 
inches  long.  Thus  divided,  it  is  a  good  size  for  managing  on  the 
gridiron,  and  as  much  as  a  person  would  care  to  have  on  their  plate 
at  once.  Should  any  part  be  thicker  than  the  rest,  roll  it  with  a  roll- 
ing pin  or  very  gently  beat  it  out  to  the  same  thickness.  The  prac- 
tice of  beating  steak  is  very  injudicious  ;  "it  breaks  the  cells  which 
contain  the  juices."  Thus  escaping,  the  meat  becomes  dry  and 
tasteless — better  always  to  give  the  meat  time  to  become  tender  and 
ripe  for  the  gridiron.  Sweep  the  hearth  clean,  give  the  dust  a  few 
minutes  to  settle,  prepare  a  bed  of  brisk,  solid  coals,  having  the  grid- 
iron looking  as  bright  as  a  mirror,  rub  the  bars  well  with  brown  pa- 
per or  grease  them  slightly  with  suet  or  lard,  not  enough  to  drip,  for 
this  falling  on  the  coals  would  produce  smoke.  Place  the  gridiron 


86  ROASTING. 

on  the  coals,  and  as  soon  as  hot  (not  enough  to  scorch),  lay  on  the 
steak  and  turn  frequently  with  meat  tongs  or  a  knife.  A  fork,  if  in- 
serted in  the  steak,  will  injure  its  condition  by  -making  "taps  to  let 
out  the  juice."  I  am  conscious  of  repeating  this  caution  often;  I 
have  done  so  because  of  the  carelessness  of  the  cooks  in  this  mat- 
ter. To  have  the  most  simple  duties  performed  satisfactorily  re- 
quires line  upon  line  and  precept  upon  precept.  The  dish  upon 
which  the  steak  is  to  be  placed  must  be  «hot;  put  in  the  dish  a  large  • 
slice  of  good  sweet  butter  and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  or 
mushroom  catsup,  stir  together ;  as  the  butter  warms,  lay  in  the 
slices  and  turn  over  each  slice,  so  that  all  may  be  covered  alike  with 
the  gravy.  This  should  be  done  very  hastily  and  the  steak  sent  im- 
mediately to  the  table.  A  small  space  of  time  should  be  allowed 
between  the  broil  and  the  eating,  to  have  it  in  perfection.  With  a 
well  prepared  sauce  and  proper  accompaniments  there  is  not  a  more 
elegant  breakfast  dish,  and  when  the  meat  is  juicy  and  tender,  and 
the  broiling  performed  with  skill  and  dispatch,  there  is  not  a  more 
delicate  way  of  preparing  this  popular  dish.  The  steak  is  underdone 
if,  upon  cutting,  the  red  gravy  flows;  a  few  more  moments  should 
be  allowed  for  dressing,  as  the  rare  appearance  of  the  meat  of  any 
kind  is  disgusting  to  persons  of  good  taste". 

ROASTING. 

ROASTING  FIRE. — A  light,  steady  fire,  and  should  never  be  allowed 
to  get  low. 

ROASTING. — The  usual  rule  for  time  allowed  is  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  a  pound  and  a  few  minutes  over  the  joint,  but  this  is  not 
a  positive  rule,  as  much  depends  on  the  shape  of  the  joint  as 
well  as  the  size,  and  in  the  strength  of  the  fire  and  the  nearness 
of  the  meat  to  it. 

Meat  should  be  carefully  wiped  before  washing.  It  is  best  not 
to  salt  meat  before  roasting,  as  it  draws  out  the  juices;  it  should 
therefore,  if  possible,  be  avoided.  Pork  is  less  injured  than  any  other 
meat  by  it.  The  vegetables  usually  eaten  with  mutton  roast  are 
potatoes  stewed  or  boiled,  mashed,  or  browned  under  the  meat; 
mashed  turnips,  French  beans,  cabbages,  sea  kale,  turnip  greens, 
cauliflower,  spinach  and  onion  sauce. 

BEEF. — The  roasting  parts  are  the  ribs,  sirloin  and  rump.  The 
rump  must  be  slowly  done  at  first ;  that  is,  great  thickness  of  solid 
meat  may  not  be  heated  through  before  it  begins  to  brown. 

BEEF  HEART. — Must  be  soaked  in  cold  water  till  perfectly  clear 
of  the  coagulated  blood,  then  wiped  thoroughly  dry,  stuffed  as  a  hare 
and  roasted  or  baked.  Of  the  two,  baking,  if  properly  done,  is 


ROASTING.  87 

preferable.  It  will  require  a  great  deal  of  basting,  and  will  take  2 
hours  or  more,  if  large,  for  cooking.  Eaten  very  hot. 

VEAL. — Requires  a  quick  fire  and  should  be  more  thoroughly 
done  than  other  mutton  or  beef;  indeed  all  young  meats  require  this, 
as  they  are  both  unpleasant  and  unwholesome  if  at  all  rare.  Veal 
requires  frequent  basting ;  also  rather  more  flour  to  brown  it  than 
mutton  or  beef.  When  first  put  down  a  greased  paper  should  be 
fixed  on  the  rind  of  the  neck  or  loin.  The  kidney,  which  is  much 
esteemed,  should  be  roasted  in  the  loin ;  or  if  it  be  desired,  to 
have  it  browned,  let  it  lie  in  the  dripping  pan.  All  roast  veal 
should  be  served  with  a  little  good  gravy  and  plenty  of  melted 
butter  and  garnished  with  slices  of  lemon.  The  vegetables  that 
should  accompany  veal  are  potatoes  either  plain  boiled,  mashed  or 
browned,  and  greens  of  every  kind,  but  cauliflower,  asparagus,  sea 
kale  and  green  peas  are  especially  esteemed  with  roast  veal. 

Lamb  requires  a  brisk  fire ;  it  should  be  quickly  and  thoroughly 
done. 

ROAST  RIBS  OF  BEEF  STUFFED, — Make  a  stuffing  as  for  fillet 
of  veal,  bone  the  beef,  put  the  stuffing  into  the  middle  of  it,  roll  it 
up  and  bind  it  very  tight ;  let  it  roast  gently  for  about  2  hours  and  a 
half,  'or  if  very  thick,  3  hours  will  do  it  sufficiently.  Serve  it  up  with 
a  brown  sauce  of  either  celery,  onions  or  oysters. 

To  ROAST  A  ROUND  OF  BEEF  (fresh.) — Salt  it,  and  then  paste  the 
outside  (often  rubbing  it  in)  with  hog's  lard.  This  will  cause  it  to 
brown  nicely  as  well  as  to  keep  the  juice  in.  Steak  may  be  larded 
in  the  same  way. 

A  SUBSTITUTE  for  meat  (Hebrew.) — Stir  thoroughly  i  spoonful  of 
flour  into  2  eggs.  Fry  with  beef  drippings  (suet)  or  butter. 

ROAST  FILLET  OF  BEEF. — Turn  and  lard  a  fillet  of  beef  with  small 
shreds  of  fat  bacon  and  soak  it  in  2  gills  of  cider  vinegar,  some  oil, 
salt,  pepper,  sliced  onions  and  some  sprigs  of  parsley.  The  meat  is 
generally  allowed  to  soak  for  24  hours.  Clear  the  fillet  of  onions 
and  parsley,  put  it  on  the  spit,  wrap  it  in  buttered  paper  and  put 
it  to  roast  before  an  even  fire  or  in  a  stove ;  5  minutes  before 
serving  take  off  the  paper  and  glaze  the  fillet  with  meat  glaze ; 
take  it  off  the  spit  and  put  it  on  a  dish;  pour  some  meat  gravy 
under  it  and  serve  with  piquant  sauce  in  a  bowl.  Fillet^of  beef 
is  sometimes  roasted  without  being  soaked  in  spiced  liquors ;  in  that 
case  serve  it  with  the  gravy  only,  without  the  sauce. 


88  STEWING. 


STEWING. 

A  GOOD  AND  CHEAP  DINNER. — Get  what  butchers  call  a  soup- 
bone  from  a  nice,  tender  b,eef  and  salt  it  over  night.  Put  it  on  in 
time,  so  that  it  will  be  cooked  tender  about  1-2  an  hour  before  din- 
ner. Put  in  potatoes  enough  for  your  family,  and  make  it  boil  brisk- 
ly for  15  minutes.  If  the  potatoes  are  large,  put  it  on  sooner.  About 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before  dinner,  lift  meat  and  potatoes  into  a 
pan  with  a  little  of  the  top  of  the  broth,  and  if  you  have  sweet  po- 
tatoes, have  them  boiled  sufficiently,  so  that  a  fork  will  enter,  and 
put  them,  too,  in  the  pan.  Now,  after  the  pan  of  meat  has  been 
placed  in  the  oven,  have  a  batter  made  ready,  as  stiff  as  it  can 
be  stirred.  This  batter  should  be  made  with  an  egir,  a  cup  of  sour 
milk,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  flour  to  thicken 
it.  Into  the  soup  (there  should  be  plenty  of  it),  seasoned  to  the 
taste  and  boiling,  drop  the  batter,  a  small  teaspoonful  at  a  time, 
dipping  the  spoon  into  the  soup  between  spoonfuls.  Keep  the  pot 
boiling  briskly,  and  stir  gently,  so  that  the  separate  spoonfuls  of  bat- 
ter will  not  run  together.  As  soon  as  done  they  should  be  lifted  at 
once,  or  they  will  get  heavy.  Such  dumplings  and  soup,  with  good 
bread  and  butter,  and  a  cup  of  nice  coffee,  or  anything  else  that  can 
be  afforded  for  dessert,  makes  a  good  and  cheap  dinner  at  any  time. 

STEWED  Ox  HEART. — Cut  it  up  lengthwise  into  long,  thin  pieces, 
put  them  into  a  stew-pot  of  cold  water  or  pot-liquor,  with  salt ;  let 
it  simmer,  and  carefully  skim  away  the  blood,  which  may  be  thrown 
up  in  large  quantities ;  when  nearly  tender,  take  out  the  pieces  of 
meat  and  carve  them  neatly  into  mouthfuls,  dredge  a  little  flour  over 
them,  season  with  a  little  pepper  and  allspice,  and  return  to  the 
strained  liquor  with  six  or  eight  small  onions  chopped  fine,  a  stick 
or  two  of  celery  cut  up,  a  dozen  parboiled  potatoes  and  a  little  cat- 
sup or  walnut  pickle,  and  let  all  simmer  together  until  the  meat  and 
vegetables  are  perfectly  tender  and  the  gravy  rich  and  well  mingled. 

STEWED  Ox  TAIL  AND  POTATOES. — The  tails  should  be  divided 
at  the  joints.  Put  the  tails  and  potatoes  in  as  much  water  or  broth 
as  will  cover  them  ;  simmer  the  tails  one  hour  and  the  potatoes  until 
the  skin  will  easily  peel  off;  let  the  liquor  cool  to  remove  the  fat. 
The  tails  may  be  either  whole  or  cut  in  slices,  and  the  gravy,  which 
thicken  and  season  with  butter  rolled  in  brown  flour  (which  is  done 
by  spreading  a  thin  surface  of  it  on  a  plate  or  tin  and  drying  it 
in  the  oven),  cayenne  pepper,  shallot  or  onions,  catsup  or  walnut 
pickle  and  a  little  mustard,  and  stew  very  slowly  until  perfectly 
tender.  Serve  with  toasted  slices  of  bread  and  pickled  onions, 
cucumbers  or  walnuts. 


STEWING.  89 

Ox  CHEEK  STEW. — Stew  it  down  in  a  large  quantity  of  water — 4 
gallons  will  not  be  too  much.  Having  done  this,  remove  the 
cheek  and  leave  liquor  to  cool,  when  a  large  quantity  of  excel- 
lent fat  will  be  found  to  have  risen  on  the  top  ;  remove  this,  and  do 
cheek  and  liquor  again  with  any  herbs  desired,  or  thickening. 
Let  it  boil  until  the  meat  is  perfectly  tender  and  the  liquor  has 
boiled  away  about  one-half.  This  is  one  of  the  cheapest  and 
most  nourishing  dishes  that  can  be  prepared  for  a  poor  family. 

STEWED  Ox  CHEEK. — One  cheek,  salt  and  water,  4  or  5  onions, 
butter  and  flour,  6  cloves,  3  turnips,  2  carrots,  i  bay  leaf,  i  head 
of  celery,  i  bunch  of  savory  herbs,  cayenne,  black  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  i  oz.  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  mushroom  catsup,  2  tablespoonfuls  port  wine,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls tomato  sauce.  Have  the  cheek  boned,  and  prepare  it  the 
day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  by  cleaning  and  putting  it  to  soak 
all  night  in  salt  and  water.  The  next  day  wipe  it  dry  and  clean 
and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan.  Just  cover  it  with  water,  skim  well 
when  it  boils  and  let  it  gently  simmer  until  the  meat  is  quite 
tender.  Slice  and  fry  3  onions  in  a  little  butter  and  flour,  and 
put  them  into  the  gravy  ;  add  2  whole  onions,  each  stuck  with 
3  cloves,  3  turnips  quartered,  2  carrots  stuck,  a  bay  leaf,  i  head  of 
celery,  a  bunch  of  herbs  and  seasoning  to  taste,  of  cayenne,  black 
pepper  and  salt.  Let  these  stew  until  perfectly  tender ;  then  take 
out  the  cheek,  divide  into  pieces  fit  to  help  at  table,  thin  and  strain 
the  gravy,  and  thicken  i  1-2  pint  of  it  with  butter  and  flour  in  the 
above  proportions  ;  add  the  vinegar,  catsup  and  port  wine ;  put  in  the 
pieces  of  cheek  ;  let  the  whole  boil  up,  and  serve  quite  hot ;  send  it 
to  table  in  a  ragout  dish.  If  the  color  of  the  gravy  should  not  be 
very  good,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  the  browning.  Cook  4.  hours. 
Seasonable  at  any  time 

STEWED  TRIPE. — Select  2  Ibs.  of  double  tripe,  cut  it  in  strips 
of  1-4  Ib  each,  put  in  a  clean  stew  pan,  add  a  pint  each  of  wa- 
ter and  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  i  spoonful  of  pepper,  eight 
middling  sized  onions  carefully  peeled,  which  put  in,  set  to  boil 
rather  fast,  then  simmer  till  done,  which  will  be  1-4  hour  or  more. 
Turn  out  into  a  deep  dish  or  tureen  and  serve. 

STEWED  BEEF'S  TONGUE. — Salt  a  tongue  with  saltpetre  and  com- 
mon salt  for  a  week,  turning  it  every  day.  Boil  it  till  tender  enough 
to  peel;  when  done  stew  it  in  a  moderately  strong  gravy ;  season 
with  sage,  mushroom  catsup,  cayenne,  pounded  cloves,  and  salt  if 
necessary.  Serve  with  mushrooms.  The  roots  must  be  taken  off 
the  tongue  before  salting,  but  some  fat  left. 

CALF'S  HEAD  STEW. — Take  the  pieces  of  meat  from  the  soup  pot, 
chip  them  fine,  put  them  into  a  sauce  pan  with  some  of  the  gravy, 


9O  DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT. 

and  stew.  Pick  the  brains  and  mix  them  with  grated  bread,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  work  them  into  small  cakes  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  fry 
them  and  put  them  in  the  soup  after  it  is  placed  in  the  tureen ;  put 
paste  that  is^baked  separately,  around  the  stew,  then  put  them  in  a 
dish  and  add  catsup  and  a  few  hard  boiled  eggs. 

STEWED  SHIN  OF  BEEF. — A  shin  of  beef,  i  head  of  celery,  i  onion, 
a  faggot  of  savory  herbs,  1-2  teaspoonful  allspice,  1-2  teaspooful  of 
whole  black  pepper",  4  carrots,  1 2  button  onions,  2  turnips,  thicken- 
ing of  butter  and  flour,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroon  catsup,  2  of 
port  wine,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Have  the  bone  sawed  into 
4  or  5  pieces,  cover  with  hot  water,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  remove  any 
scum  that  may  rise  to  the  surface.  Put  in  the  celery,  onion,  herbs, 
spice,  seasoning,  and  simmer  very  gently  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
Put  in  the  vegetables,  cut  them  into  any  shape  fancy  may  dictate 
and  boil  them  with  the  onions  till  tender ;  lift  out  the  beef,  put  it  on 
a  dish,  which  keep  hot,  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  in  as  much 
of  the  liquor  as  will  be  wanted  for  the  gravy.  Keep  stirring  until  it 
boils,  then  strain  and  thin  it.  Put  the  gravy  back  in  the  stewpan, 
add  the  seasoning,  put  in  the  wine  and  catsup,  give  it  one  boil,  and 
pour  over  the  beef.  Garnish  with  the  boiled  carrots,  turnips  and 
onions.  The  meat  may  be  stewed  4  hours.  Seasonable  at  any 
time. 

To  STEW  A  BRISKET  OF  BEEF. — Put  the  part  which  has  the  hard 
fat  into  a  stew-pot  with  a  small  quantity  of  water ;  let  it  boil  up  and 
skim  it  thoroughly ;  then  add  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  celery  and  a 
few  pepper  corns.  Stew  until  extremely  tender ;  then  take  out  the 
flat  bones  and  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  soup.  Either  serve  that 
and  the  meat  in  a  tureen,  or  the  soup  alone  and  the  meat  on  a  dish 
garnished  with  some  vegetables.  The  following  sauce  is  much  ad- 
mired served  with  beef:  Take  1-2  pint  of  soup  and  mix  it  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  little  flour,  a  bit  of  butter  and  salt ; 
boil  all  together  a  few  minutes  and  then  pour  it  around  the  meat. 
Chop  capers,  walnuts,  red  cabbage,  pickled  cucumbers,  cloves  or 
parsley  small,  and  put  in  separate  heaps  over  it. 

DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT. 

STEAK  A  LA  MODE — (Mrs.  H.'s  receipt.)  —After  cutting  the  steak 
in  thin  slices,  pound  it  lightly.  The  beef  should  hang  till  tender. 
Lay  the  slices  in  an  earthen  baking  dish  and  between  each  layer  put 
a  seasoning  of  a  mixture  of  bread  crumbs,  1-2  teaspoonful  each  of 
mace,  cloves,  allspice,  ginger,  red  pepper ;  salt  to  taste,  a  cupful  of 
tomato  catsup,  i  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Bake  1-2  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Veal,  pork,  mutton  and  venison  are  good  prepared  in. 


DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT.  9! 

this  way.  When  spices  are  not  relished  with  meat,  always  omit  them 
and  use  any  seasoning  preferred. 

VEAL  A  LA  MODE  (baked.) — This  should  be  prepared  2  days  be- 
fore cooking.  Remove  the  skin  and  rancid  parts  of  1-2  Ib.  of  bacon, 
cut  it  in  thin  strips  2  inches  long  and  1-4  thick,  make  incisions  all 
over  the  meat  near  each  other  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  take  1-4  Ib. 
of  kidney  suet  and  i  tablespoonful  each  of  thyme,  parsley  chopped 
fine,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  onion  shreded  fine,  a  teaspoonful  of  mace, 
cloves,  allspice,  i  nutmeg  pounded  and  sifted ;  put  in  the  parsley 
and  onions  and  mix  the  whole.  Mix  an  even  tablespoonful  of  salt 
and  season  high  with  black  and  red  pepper  mixed.  Into  each  incis- 
ion put  a  little  seasoning,  then  roll  each  slice  of  bacon  into  it  and 
press  them  down  into  the  slits  and  cover  the  top  of  the  meat  with 
the  seasoning.  Lay  it  in  a  deep  earthen  pan  large  enough  to  hold 
it  without  cramping ;  cover  it  close  and  keep  it  2  days  after  it  is  pre- 
pared in  this  way.  When  ready  for  the  oven  pour  a  cupful  of  water 
in  the  dish  and  bake  4  hours  if  the  piece  weighs  10  Ibs.  Baste  it 
well  with  sweet  lard.  This  is  good  when  cold,  and  is  best  in  cold 
weather. 

A  LA  MODE  BEKF — (Miss  Page.) — Take  a  piece  of  beef  4  or  5 
inches  thick,  and  with  a  small  knife  make  small  incisions  entirely 
through  it  at  small  distances  apart,  then  take  strips  of  fat  salt  pork, 
roll  them  in  pepper  and  cloves,  lay  on  a  pan,  cover  closely  and  put 
over  a  steamer  and  steam  for  3  hours.  When  done  thicken  the  gravy 
in -the  pan  with  a  little  flour.  This  is  excellent  when  eaten  with  cold 
meat. 

MARINADE. — Take  i  Ib.  of  raw  ham,  1-2  lean,  1-2  fat,  cut  it  in 
pieces,  put  these  in  a  stew  pan  with  4  bay  leaves,  i  sprig  of  thyme, 
6  ounces  of  onion,  6  ounces  of  carrots,  2  ounces  of  parsley,  two  un- 
picked cloves  of  garlic,  6  shallots,  6  ounces  butter.  Fry  the  whole 
together,  then  moisten  with  2  quarts  of  water  and  2  quarts  of  pure 
vinegar ;  boil  for  2  minutes,  add  3  ounces  of  salt  and  one  ounce  of 
pepper. 

MARINADED  LAMB'S  FEET  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. — Cook  the  feet 
with  some  fat  bacon  fried  from  the  rind  and  gristle  of  some  veal, 
chop  and  pound  the  veal  and  bacon  together ;  while  pounding  add  i 
gill  of  tomato  sauce  for  each  Ib.  of  forcemeat  of  bacon  and  veal ; 
drain  the  feet  and  bones  and  cut  them  in  two  lengthwise  ;  spread  out 
some  pig's  caul  on  a  cloth,  place  on  it  a  layer  of  the  forcemeat  the 
same  length  as  that  of  the  lamb's  foot,  put  2  slices  of  trouffle  on  the 
force  meat  and  1-2  a  lamb's  foot  on  these;  then  2  more  slices  of 
truffle  and  cover  the  whole  with  a  layer  of  forcemeat ;  roll  it  in  the 
caul  to  an  oval  shape  ;  and  when  all  the  feet  are  stuffed  in  this  way 
dip  them  in  butter,  bread  crumbs  and  broil  them  over  a  slow  fire  for 
15  minutes  with  some  nice  sauce  in  a  boat. 


92  DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT. 

HOT  BEEF  A  LA  MODE. — Take  41-2  Ibs.  of  flank  steak  and  10 
ounces  of  fat  bacon,  (cut  off  the  rind  and  put  it  aside  to  blanch,) 
cut  the  bacon  into  strips  1-2  inch  thick  and  sprinkle  them  with 
pepper.  Lard  the  beef  in  the  grain  of  the  meat  and  tie  it  up 
with  strings ;  put  into  a  stew  pan  with  i  pint  of  French  white  wine 
or  good  vinegar,  i  gill  of  brandy,  i  1-2  pint  of  broth,  2  calves' 
feet  which  have  been  blanched  and  boned  ;  also  the  blanched  rind 
of  bacon  ;  put  on  the  fire  and  add  i  ounce  of  salt ;  boil  and  skim, 
then  add  3  carrots,  i  onion,  2  small  pinches  of  pepper,  3  cloves 
and  parsley,  thyme  and  a  little  sage.  Put  to  simmer  in  a  closed 
stew  pan  for  4  hours  and  a  half  on  the  stove  corner ;  try  the  beef, 
and  when  done  take  it  out  together  with  the  calf's  feet  and  carrots ; 
keep  hot  till  serving ;  strain  the  gravy  through  a  pointed  gravy 
strainer,  take  off  all  the  fat  and  reduce  it  1-4;  untie  the  beef,  put  it 
on  a  dish  and  garnish  it  around  with  calf's  feet,  each  cut  into  eight 
pieces,  with  the  carrots  cut  to  the  shape  of  corks  and  10  glazed  on- 
ions. Pour  the  gravy  over  all,  and  should  there  be  too  much  reserve 
it  for  the  next  day.  Taste  for  seasoning — a  la  mode  beef  should  be 
full  flavored  ;  a  clove  of  garlic  is  sometimes  added.  This  is  not  es- 
sential, for  the  taste  of  the  mistress  must  be  consulted. 

COLD  BEKF  A  LA  MODE. — Cold  beef  a  la  mode  should  be  prepared 
as  directed  for  hot  beef  a  la  mode.  Put  in  a  basin  together  with  the 
calf's  feet  vegetables  and  the  gravy,  which  will  be  set  to  a  jelly ; 
when  ready  to  serve  turn  out  of  the  basin  on  to  a  dish ;  the  beef  a  la 
mode  will  then  present  its  proper  appearance. 

N.  B.  The  main  points  in  the  preparation  of  so  popular  a  dish  as 
beef  a  la  mode  are  as  follows  :  After  the  selection  of  the  meat,  the  • 
great  secret  of  success  is  to  cook  it  very  slowly.  When  cooked  hurriedly 
it  invariably  produces  white,  watery  and  insipid  gravy.  Slow  cook- 
ing produces  red,  rather  thick  gravy  of  a  gelatinous  consistency,  full 
of  nourishing  flavor  of  the  vegetables  stewed  in  the  gravy,  which 
is  one  of  the  characteristics  of  a  la  mode  beef.  The  carrots  and 
spices  should  be  cooked  with  the  meat,  by  which  they  add  a  savory 
flavor  which  is  so  much  prized  by  connoiseusrs.  I  would  recommend 
that  the  pieces  of  meat  should  be  chosen  rather  too  large  than 
small. 

RIB  OF  BEEF  BONES — (A  Pretty  dish). — Rib  of  beef  bones,  one 
onion  chopped  fine,  a  few  slices  of  carrot  and  turnips,  and  1-2  pint 
of  gravy.  The  bones  for  this  dish  should  have  left  on  them  a  slight 
covering  of  meat.  Saw  them  into  pieces  3  inches  long;  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  the  re- 
maining ingredients.  Stew  gently  until  the  vegetables  are  tender, 
and  serve  on  a  flat  dish  within  walls  of  mashed  potatoes.  Cook  3-4 
of  an  hour.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 


DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT.  93 

BOILLI  BEEF. — Take  5  or  6  Ibs.  of  good,  tender  beef  from  the 
rump,  brisket  or  long  ribs ;  the  rump  or  round  is  the  best.  Put  it  in 
a  pot  of  cold  water,  enough  to  cover  the  beef  well ;  let  it  boil  until 
the  scum  rises,  and  skim  it  nicely ;  add  2  carrots,  2  turnips  cut  in 
shape,  and  stick  one  onion  full  of  cloves.  Let  this  simmer  3  hours, 
and  then  add  i  tablespoonful  of  red  wine,  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
parsley  and  thyme  chopped  fine,  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard  and 

1  tablespoonful  of  catsup.     Simmer  i   hour  and  take  the  beef  out 
and  stir. 

SMOTHERED  BEEFSTEAK. — After  pounding  your  steak  well  on  both 
sides,  broil  it  on  a  clean  and  well-greased  griddle  over  a  clear  fire. 
Turn  it  frequently. 

To  ROAST  A  BREAST  OF  VEAL. — Before  roasted,  if  large,  the 
two  ends  may  be  taken  off  and  fried  to  a  stew,  or  the  whole  may  be 
roasted.  Butter  should  be  poured  over  it.  If  any  be  left,  cut  the 
pieces  into  handsome  sizes,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  and  pour  some 
broth  over  them,  or,  if  you  have  no  broth,  a  little  water  will  do ;  add 
some  parsley,  thyme,  a  blade  of  mace  and  some  pepper.  Stew  until 
tender.  Thicken  with  butter  and  flour  and  add  a  little  tomato,  wal- 
nut or  cucumber  catsup  ;  or  the  whole  breast  may  be  stewed.  After 
cutting  off  the  two  ends,  serve  the  sweetbread  whole  upon  it,  which 
may  be  either  stewed  or  parboiled,  and  then  cover  with  crumbs, 
herbs,  pepper  and  salt  and  browned  in  a  Dutch  oven.  If  you  have 
mushrooms,  truffles  and  muscles,  stew  them  with  it,  and  serve.  A 
roasted  breast  of  veal  smothered  with  onion  sauce  is  an  excellent 
dish  if  not  old  or  too  fat. 

VEAL  STUFFING. — Take  1-2  Ib.  finely  chopped  suet  with  1-2  Ib. 
of  bread  crumbs,  4  oz.  chopped  parsley,  a  bay  leaf,  a  tablespoonful 
of  equal  quantities  of  powdered  thyme  and  marjoram  and  2  bay 
leaves,  the  rind  of  a  lemon^.  grated  and  the  juice  of  1-2  a  one. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  1-4  of  a  nutmeg.  Mix  the  whole  with 
3  eggs.  By  adding  some  more  chopped  parsley  this  will  do  to  stuff 
a  turkey  or  bake  a  fish  with. 

Note. — A  nice  garnish  may  be  made  of  beet  root,  cut  gherkins, 
cucumbers  and  olives. 

To  FRY  VEAL — (Mrs.  Baringer). — Cut  the  meat  in  'thin  slices, 
rub  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  in  flour  and  drop  it  into  a  pan  of  hot 
lard.  When  of  a  fine  brown,  take  it  up  and  make  a  gravy  with 
cream  or  milk  poured  into  the  skillet  and  pour  over  the  veal.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley. 

BAKED  VEAL. — One-half  Ib.  cold  roast  veal,  a  few  slices  of  bacon, 

2  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  i  cup  of  good  veal  gravy,   1-2  teaspoonful 
minced  lemon  peel,  i  blade  of  pounded  mace,  cayenne  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  4  eggs.     Mince  finely  the  veal  and  bacon ;  add 


94  DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT. 

the  bread  crumbs,  gravy  and  seasoning,  stir  these  ingredients  well 
together.  Beat  up  the  eggs  thoroughly ;  add  these,  mix  the  whole 
well  together,  put  into  a  dish  and  bake  from  3-4  to  i  hour.  Ifliked, 
a  little  good  gravy  may  be  served  in  a  tureen  as  an  accompaniment. 
For  3  or  4  persons. 

To  BAKE  A  FILLET  OF  VEAL. — Let  it  hang  until  tender,  wiping  it 
every  day  with  a  dry  cloth.  Should  not  lay  it  upon  wood,  as  that 
keeps  the  meat  damp.  When  prepared,  for  baking,  with  a  sharp 
knife  separate  the  fillet  or  thigh  from  the  loin  and  shank  and  remove 
the  bone,  fill  the  space  with  a  rich  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  chopped 
onion,  parsley  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Beat  in  2  eggs  and  fry  the  mixture,  stirring  constantly  10  minutes  ; 
wrap  the  flap  around.  It  should  be  as  before  the  bone  was  removed, 
after  being  stuffed  and  wrapped,  tie  a  tape  or  cord  around  it  and 
insert  a  skewer;  put  it  in  the  oven  with  something  under  to  elevate 
it  an  inch  at  least,  and  pour  in  2  cupfuls  of  warm  water.  Bake 
slowly  and  baste  often.  If  the  gravy  is  not  rich  enough  rub  an  even 
teaspoonful  of  flour  into  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  add  to  the 
gravy.  Tomato  catsup,  with  the  gravy,  is  an  improvement.  To  2 
cupfuls  of  gravy  add  1-2  cupful  of  catsup,  or  stew  a  few  tomatoes 
and  a  little  spice  with  the  gravy.  A  fillet  of  beef  resembles  the 
round  of  a  beef  that  is  covered  in  the  same  way.  Cut  off  the  top 
outside  piece,  then  cut  round,  thin  slices  and  send  some  of  the  stuff- 
ing upon  each  plate.  Serve  with  pickles,  catsup  or  French  mus- 
tard. 

BEEF'S  LIVER — (LIVERS  TO  COOK) — Cut  the  liver  in  scores 
and  salt  it  with  2  Ibs.  of  salt  for  a  fortnight,  then  let  it  drain  for  3 
days,  then  rub  in  2  ounces  of  several  kinds  of  spice,  according  to 
your  judgment,  and  all  sorts  of  sweet  herbs  chopped  very  fine  ;  also 
a  good  seasoning  of  onions  and  shallots ;  then  hang  in  a  dry,  cool 
place  for  a-  time,  then  put  in  a  bag  for  use.  A  small  piece  is  suffi- 
cient to  make  gravy  for  ducks,  hares,  &c.  It  will  keep  many  months 
and  be  useful  in  this  manner. 

To  FRY  LIVER,  SMELTS,  SWEET  BREADS,  &c. — Parboil  them  till 
2-3  done,  take  the  liver  out  and  cut  it  in  thin  slices.  It  should  not 
be  boiled  in  much  water  ;  then  put  it  back  into  the  frying  pan  with 
the  sweet  breads,  &c.,  chopped  onions,  pepper,  cayenne  and  salt,  and 
fry  slowly  till  done,  then  take  it  up  and  make  a  nice  gravy  of  milk 
thickened  with  a  small  portion  of  flour,  then  serve  ;  or  fry  the  liver  as 
beefsteak  and  eat  it  rather  rare  after  salting  and  peppering  it. 

PIG'S  HEARTLET — (Mrs.  H.'s  receipt.) — Clean  the  liver  and  sweet 
breads  and  put  to  them  the  fat  and  lean  bits  of  pork,  with  which 
mix  pepper,  salt,  sage  and  onion  shred  fine;  put  all  into  a  caul,  tie 
up  and  roast  on  a  hanging  Jack,  or  put  into  a  dish  and  bake ;  or 


DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT.  95 

slice  the  liver  and  sweet  breads  and  fry  them  with  pieces  of  bacon ; 
garnish  with  fried  parsley. 

CALF'S  OR  LAMB'S  LIVER. — Should  be  cut  in  long,  thin  slices 
soaked  in  water,  wiped  thoroughly  dry  and  floured  on  each  side  ;  fry 
of  a  fine  nut  brown ;  when  nearly  done  sprinkle  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  some  shallots  or  young  onion  finely  sliced,  a  little  gravy  thick- 
ened with  flour  and  butter,  to  which  may  be  added  a  squeeze  of 
lemon.  Serve  with  stewed  or  pickled  cucumbers  and  fried  parsley. 

To  FRY  LIVER. — Cut  your  liver  in  nice  pieces,  put  in  cold  water, 
and  let  it  boil  until  it  looks  nearly  done,  take  it  out  and  drip  into  hot 
lard.  Season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  as  you  take  it  up. 

To  BAKE  A  FRESH  BEEF  TONGUE. — Take  just  enough  water  to 
cover  it  and  parboil  for  2  hours ;  take  it  up  and  dip  it  in  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  then  sift  over  it  dusted  breadcrumbs,  lay  it  in  a  baking  pan 
and  pour  over  it  a  cupful  of  the  broth  in  which  it  was  boiled ;  bake, 
basting  well  with  butter. 

.  To  BOIL  A  SALT  TONGUE. — Soak  it  over  night  in  plenty  of  water, 
put  it  to  boil  in  more  water  than  to  cover  it ;  while  boiling,  if  it 
is  too  salt  change  the  water ;  it  requires  long  boiling.  Ascertain 
when  it  is  done  by  running  a  small  skewer  in  the  skin,  carefully 
remove  the  rough  part  of  the  root  and  garnish  the  dish  with  pars- 
ley. Slice  round.  This  may  be  eaten  hot  at  dinner  or  cold  for  supper. 

Smoked  tongue  is  prepared  in  the  same  way.  Be  sure  to  boil 
till  tender.  Fresh  tongue  must  be  first  boiled,  then  dipped  in 
beaten  egg,  rolled  in  bread  crumbs  and  baked  in  a  pan.  Pour 
in  a  cupful  of  the  broth  it  was  boiled  in,  baste  it  well  with  butter; 
1-2  hour  will  be  sufficient  time  for  baking.  Season  the  gravy  with 
any  good  catsup. 

To  BOIL  A  CALF'S  HEAD. — After  being  well  cleaned  it  is  best  to 
keep  the  skin  on ;  it  will  require  an  hour  longer  in  cooking  when  the 
skin  is  retained.  The  head  should  be  fat.  Cut  apart  the  upper 
and  lower  jaws,  remove  the  eyes  ;  they  are  never  used.  Take  out 
the  bone  containing  the  teeth  ;  also  the  nose. and  ears;  cut  out  the 
tongue,  remove  the  brains,  put  the  head  and  tongue  to  boil  in  enough 
warm  water  to  cover  them,  tie  the  brains  in  a  cloth,  boil  all  until  ten- 
der ;  vegetables  may  be  boiled  with  the  head  ;  if  liked,  onions,  car- 
rots, parsley  and  thyme.  Serve  the  head  upon  i  dish ;  upon  an- 
other place  the  tongue  and  brains,  or  make  sauce  of  the  brains ; 
take  a  pint  of  the  broth,  put  it  in  a  stew  pan,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
parsley  chopped  fine ;  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Let  these 
stew  1-4  hour;  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  which  has 
been  rubbed  a  dessert  spoonful  of  flour ;  stew  this  5  minutes  and 
serve  with  the  head  ;  use  the  remainder  of  the  broth  for  soup.  It  is 


96  DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT. 

the  basis  or  stock  of  mock  turtle  soup.  Season  the  brains  with  sage 
if  the  flavor  is  liked.  Garnish  with  lemon. 

COLLARED  CALF'S  HEAD. — A  calf's  head,  4  tablespoonfuls  minced 
parsley,  4  blades  of  pounded  mace,  1-2  teaspoonful  of  grated  nut- 
meg ;  white  pepper  to  taste,  a  few  thick  slices  of  ham  ;  the  yolks  of  6 
eggs  boiled  hard.  Scald  the  head  for  a  few  minutes,  take  it  out  of 
the  water,  and  with  a  blunt  knife  scrape  off  all  the  hair,  clean  it  nicely, 
divide  the  head  and  remove  the  brains ;  boil  till  tender  e.nough  to 
take  out  the  bones,  which  will  be  about  2  hours.  When  the  head  is 
boned  flatten  it  on  the  table,  sprinkle  over  it  a  layer  of  parsley,  then 
a  layer  of  ham,  and  then  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  cut  into  thin  rings  and 
put  a  seasoning  of  mace,  nutmeg  and  white  pepper  between  each 
layer ;  roll  the  head  in  a  cloth  and  tie  it  up  as  tightly  as  possible. 
Boil  it  for  4  hours,  and  when  it  is  taken  out  of  the  pot  place  a  heavy, 
weight  on  the  top,  the  same  as  for  other  collars.  Let  it  remain  till 
cold,  then  remove  the  cloth  and  binding,  and  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 
Altogether  6  hours. 

SALT  BEEF. — If  it  be  required  to  get  a  piece  of  salt  beef  for  im- 
mediate use,  the  moment  it  comes  into  the  house  rub  in  1-2  the  usual 
quantity  of  salt  and  let  it  lie  for  awhile  till  time  to  put  it  into  the 
pot  when  boiling.  When  it  has  boiled  an  hour  take  it  out,  rub  in 
some  salt,  flour  the  cloth  again  and  return  it  in  the  same  manner. 
Allow  it  the  usual  time  for  boiling.  By  this  method  it  will  be  found 
salt  enough.  Mustard  is  always  eaten  with  boiled  beef.  Those  who 
do  not  choose  anything  so  plain  for  their  own  eating  may  do  a  good 
action  by  boiling  a  little  for  some  poor  family  in  the  neighborhood. 
Meat  that  has  necessarily  lain  in  salt  may  be  freshened  up  by  soaking 
it  in  one  or  more  waters.  In  boiling  be  very  careful  to  remove  the 
scum  till  no  more  rises,  and  even  then  it  may  be  necessary  to  throw 
in  a  little  cold  water  to  refine  the  liquor.  The  pot  shoufd  be  kept 
covered  and  the  meat  turned  once  or  twice  while  boiling. 

TRIPE — LYONNAISE  FASHION. — When  any  cold  tripe  remains,  cut 
in  thin  slices  about  the  thickness  of  an  inch  square,  mince  2  onions, 
put  some  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  in  the  onions,  fry  till  they  are 
partly  done,  add  the  tripe,  let  them  fry  10  minutes,  tossing  them, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  3  spoonfuls  of  vinegar  to  each  i  Ib. 
and  serve.  Well  dry  the  tripe  on  a  dish  before  frying.  It  will  take 
3  ounces  of  butter  to  the  Ib. 

BOILED  TRIPE. — After  the  animal  is  killed,  as  soon  as  possible 
have  the  stomach  emptied,  and  well  washed  in  cold  water;  sprinkle 
lime  or  ashes  over  the  inside,  fold  it  carefully  and  lay  it  in  a  vessel ; 
cover  it  with  warm  water  for  6  hours  and  then  scrape  off  the 
dark,  part.  When  this  is  removed  wash  it  in  several  waters  and  place 
it  in  another  vessel  filled  with  salt  and  water.  The  first  jar  should 


DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT.  97 

be  scalded  and  cleaned  well.  Boil  the  tripe,  putting  it  in  cold 
water  until  a  straw  will  easily  pierce  it  and  the  edges  look  trans- 
parent ;  skim  closely,  and  when  the  tripe  is  tender  take  it  up  and 
cut  it  in  uniform  sizes  convenient  for  serving ;  pour  over  milk  or 
milk  and  water  and  keep  it  closely  covered.  Should  the  milk 
turn  sour  a  little  it  will  not  injure  the  tripe,  as  it  is  usual  to  add  vine- 
gar in  cooking  it.  It  should  not  be  kept  long ;  either  fry,  stew  or 
hash  it ;  •  when  made  into  a  hash  use  onions  freely  and  cover  with 
pickle. 

FRICASSEE  ROUND  OF  BEEF. — From  5  to  10  Ibs.  of  rib  of  beef, 
sufficient  brine  to  cover  the  meat.  Choose  a  fine  rib,  have  the  bones 
removed,  rub  some  salt  over  the  inside  and  skewer  the  meat  up  into 
a  nice  round  form  and  bind  it  with  tape.  Put  it  in  sufficient  brine 
to  cover  it,  and  then  let  it  remain  for  six  days,  turning  the  meat 
every  day.  When  required  to  be  dressed  drain  from  the  pickle 
and  put  the  meat  into  very  hot  water ;  let  it  boil  rapidly  for  a 
few  minutes,  then  draw  the  pot  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let  it 
simmer  very  gently  till  done.  Remove  the  skewer  and  replace 
by  a  plated  or  silver  one.  Carrots  and  turnips  should  be  serv- 
ed with  this  dish.  There  may  be  boiled  with  the  meat  a  small 
round  of  8  Ibs.  about  2  hours  after  the  water  boils;  i  of  12  Ibs. 
3  hours.  Seasonable  at  any  time.  Should  the  joints  be  small,  4 
or  5  days  will  be  sufficient  time  to  salt  it.  - 

To  BOIL  CORN  BEEF. — Let  the  beef  soak  in  a  full  supply  of 
water  to  cover  it.  In  the  morning  after  breakfast  hour  wash  the 
meat  well,  put  it  in  a  cooking  vessel  and  cover  it  over  with  cold 
water ;  boil  slowly  and  skim  frequently.  If  it  is  to  be  sewed  cold 
let  it  remain  in  the  pot  till  it  becomes  so.  To  prepare  it  for  a 
Supper  dish  or  luncheon  take  out  all  the  bones  ;  when  thoroughly 
done  prick  the  meat  and  put  it  into  a  deep  dish,  putting  alter- 
nately fat  and  lean  ;  remove  all  the  fat  by  skimming.  Reduce 
this  to  1-2  by  boiling,  then  pour  over  the  meat  enough  to  fill  up  the 
cracks  left  in  filling  up  the  meat,  then  lay  over  this  a  flat  cover  that 
will  just  fit  it,  and  upon  this  place  a  heavy  weight.  This  dish  is  best 
prepared  in  cold  weather  and  put  ice  on  the  dish  in  which  it  is. 
Serve  it  upon  a  round  dish  and  garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley  or 
tops  of  celery,  or  any  good  pickle.  French  mustard  is  good  eaten 
with  it. 

BAKED  BEEF. — Two  Ibs.  of  cold  roast  beef,  2  small  onions,  i  large 
carrot  or  2  small  ones,  i  turnip,  parsley,  sage,  thyme,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste;  12  tablespoonfuls  of  gravy,  3'spoonfuls  of  vinegar  or 
ale,  and  mashed  potatoes.  Cut  the  beef  in  slices,  allowing  a 
small  amount  of  fat  to  each  slice;  place  a  layer  of  this  in  the  battom 
of  the  pie  dish  with  a  portion  of  the  onions,  carrots  and  turnips, 


98  DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT. 

which  must  be  sliced ;  mince  the  herbs,  strew  them  over  the  meat 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Then  put  in  another  layer  of  meat, 
vegetables  and  seasoning ;  proceed  in  this  manner  until  all  the  in- 
gredients are  used.  Pour  in  the  gravy,  vinegar  or  ale  (water  may  be 
substituted  for  the  gravy,  but  it  is  not  so  nice.)  Cover  with  a  crust 
of  mashed  potatoes  and  bake  for  1-2  hour,  or  rather  longer.  It  is 
sufficient  for  5  or  6  persons. 

N.  B.  It  is  better  to  parboil  the  carrots  and  turnips  before  adding 
them  to  the  meat,  and  to  use  some  of  the  liquor  in  which  they  are 
boiled  as  a  substitute  for  gravy  ;  that  is  to  say,  when  there  is  no  gravy 
at  hand.  Be  particular  to  cut  the  onions  in  very  thin  slices. 

BAKED  SPICED  BEEF. — (Mrs.  B.'s  Receipt.) — Make  a  brine  of  1-2 
Ib.  of  salt,  the  same  of  sugar,  1-2  ounce  of  saltpetre,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  allspice,  whole  grains,  measure  and  bruise  them,  half 
as  many  cloves,  a  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper  ground  coarse, 
1-2  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper  pulverized.  Boil  these  in  three 
coffee  cups  of  water.  Take  a  piece  of  the  round  weighing  8  Ibs., 
pour  this  spiced  water  over  it  and  turn  it  once  or  twice  a  day 
for  10  days,  then  salt  it  sufficiently  and  put  it  to  bake  in  an 
earthen  dish ;  pour  the  brine  over  it,  cover  with  a  dough  made 
of  coarse  flour  and  water,  lay  pieces  of  suet  over  the  meat  thick 
before  putting  on  the  sheet  of  dough.  Bake  slowly  and  let  the 
meat  become  cold  in  the  pan.  To  be  eaten  cold  with  French 
mustard.  This  keeps  well;  fresh  beef  tongues  are  good  prepared  in 
this  way. 

MRS.  RANDOLPH'S  RECEIPT  FOR  HUNTER'S  BAKED  BEEF. — Select 
a  fat  round  weighing  25  Ibs.  take  3  ounces  of  saltpetre,  i  ounce 
of  cloves,  1-2  ounce  of  allspice,  i  large  nutmeg,  i  quart  of  salt,  i 
cup  of  syrup ;  rub  it  well  on  both  sides  with  the  mixture  ;  first  take 
out  the  bone. 

POTTED  COOKED  BEEF. — The  remains  of  cold  roast  or  boiled  beet, 
1-4  Ib.  of  butter,  cayenne  to  taste  ;  2  blades  of  pounded  mace;  the 
outside  slices  of  beef  may,  with  a  little  trouble,  be  converted  into  a 
very  nice  addition  to  the  breakfast  table.  Cut  off  the  meat  into  small 
pieces  and  pound  it  well  with  a  little  butter  in  a  mortar ;  add  a  seas- 
oning of  mace  and  cayenne  and  be  very  particular  that  the  mace  is 
reduced  to  the  finest  powder.  When  all  the  ingredients  are  thor- 
oughly mixed  put  it  into  glass  or  earthen  pots  and  pour  on  the  top  a 
coating  of  clarified  butter.  Seasonable  at  any  time.  When  an  or- 
ganic substance  like  the  flesh  of  animals  is  heated  to  the  boiling 
point  it  loses  the  property  of  passing  into  a  state  of  fermentation 
and  decay.  After  being  kept  for  2  or  3  days,  fresh  animal  milk,  as 
is  well  known,  coagulates  into  a  gelatinous  mass,  and  if  it  be  heated 
up  to*  the  boiling  point  it  may  be  preserved  for  an  indefinite  pe- 


DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT.  99 

riod  as  a  perfectly  sweet  liquid.  The  knowledge  of  this  effect  of  an 
elevated  temperature  has  given  rise  to  a  most  important  branch  of 
industry,  namely,  the  preparation  of  prepared  meats,  vegetables, 
fruits,  soups  and  milk  for  the  navy,  army  and  merchant  service,  and 
for  domestic  use,  when  they  are  prepared  in  such  a  manner  that  they 
retain  their  freshness  for  years.  These  prepared  aliments  are  en- 
closed in  canisters  of  tinned  plate,  the  covers  are  soldered  air  tight, 
and  the  canisters  exposed  to  the  temperature  of  boiling  water  for  3 
or  4  hours.  When  a  canister  is  opened  after  a  lapse  of  years  its 
contents  are  found  to  be  unaltered  in  taste,  color  and  smell.  They 
then  acquire  a  stability  which  may  almost  be  deemed  eternal.  For 
this  beautiful  practical  application  of  the  discovery  that  boiling  checks 
fermentation,  we  are  indebted  to  the  French  philosopher,  Gay  Sus- 
sac. 

To  POT  BEEF  OR  MUTTON. — Take  2  pounds  of  lean  beef,  rub  it 
with  saltpetre  and  let  it  lie  i  night,  then  salt  it  with  common  salt 
and  cover  it  with  water  4  days  in  a  small  pan.  Dry  it  with  a  cloth 
and  season  it  with  black  pepper ;  lay  it  in  as  small  a  pan  as  will  hold 
it,  cover  it  with  coarse  paste  and  bake  5  hours  in  a  cool  oven.  Put 
no  liquor  in  :  when  cold  pick  out  the  strings  and  fat,  beat  the  meat 
very  fine,  with  1-4  Ib.  of  fine  fresh  butter  just  warm  but  not  oiled,  and 
as  much  gravy  as  will  make  it  into  a  paste.  Put  it  into  very  small 
pots  and  cover  with  melted  butter. 

MOULDED  MINCED  VEAL. — 3-4  Ib.  cold  veal,  a  small  slice  of  ba- 
con, 1-3  teaspoonful  of  minced  lemon  peel,  1-2  onion  chopped  fine, 
salt,  pepper  and  pounded  mace  to  taste,  a  slice  of  toast  soaked  in 
milk  and  i  egg.  Mince  the  meat  very  fine  after  removing  from  it 
all  skin  and  outside  pieces  and  chop  the  bacon ;  mix  these  well  to- 
gether, adding  the  lemon  peel,  onion,  seasoning,  mace  and  toast. 
When  all  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed,  beat  up  an  egg,  with 
which  bind  the  mixture.  Butter  a  shape,  put  in  the  meat  and  bake 
for  3-4  of  an  hour  ;  turn  it  out  of  the  mould  carefully  and  pour  round 
it  good  bacon  gravy.  A  sheep's  head  dressed  in  the  same  manner 
is  an  economical  and  savory  dish.  Cook  3-4  of  an  hour. 

MINCED  VEAL — (More  economical). — The  remains  of  cold  roast 
fillet  or  loin  of  veal,  rather  more  than  i  pint  of  water,  i  onion, 
1-2  teaspoonful  of  minced  lemon  peel,  salt  and  white  pepper  to 
taste,  i  blade  of  pounded  mace,  2  or  3  young  carrots,  a  faggot 
of  sweet  herbs,  thickening  of  butter  and  flour,  i  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  new  milk.  Take 
about  i  Ib.  of  veal,  and  should  there  be  any  bones,  dredge  them 
with  flour  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  brown  outside 
and  a  few  meat  trimmings ;  add  rather  more  than  i  pint  of  water, 
the  onions  cut  in  slices,  lemon  peel,  seasoning,  mace,  carrots 


IOO  DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT. 

and  herbs ;  simmer  these  for  i  hour,  and  strain  the  liquor.  Rub 
a  little  flour  into  some  butter,  add  this  to  the  gravy,  set  it  on 
the  fire,  and,  when  it  boils,  skim  it  well.  Mince  the  meat  finely 
by  cutting  and  not  chopping  it ;  put  it  in  the  gravy  and  let  it 
get  warmed  through  gradually;  add  the  lemon  juice  and  cream, 
and,  when  it  is  on  the  point  of  boiling,  serve.  Garnish  the  dish 
with  sippets  of  toasted  bread  and  slices  of  bacon  rolled  and  toasted. 
Forcemeat  balls  may  also  be  added.  If  more  lemon  juice  is 
liked  than  is  stated  above,  put  a  little  very  finely  minced  to  the 
veal,  after  it  is  warmed  in  the  gravy.  One  hour  to  make  the 
gravy. 

FRICANDEAU  OF  BEEF. — Three  Ibs.  of  the  inside  fillet  of  the 
sirloin  (a  piece  of  the  rump  may  be  substituted  for  this),  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  3  cloves,  2  blades  of  mace,  6  whole  allspice 
berries,  i  pint  of  stock  or  water,  i  glass  of  sherry,  i  bunch  of 
savory  herbs,  2  shallots  and  bacon.  Cut  some  bacon  into  thin 
strips  and  sprinkle  over  them  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper 
mixed  with  cloves,  mace  and  allspice  well  pounded.  Lard  the  beef 
with  these,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  stock  or  water,  sherry, 
herbs,  shallots,  2  cloves,  and  some  pepper  and  salt.  Stew  the  meat 
gently  until  tender,  then  take  it  out,  cover  it  closely,  skim  off  the  fat 
from  the  gravy,  and  strain  it.  Set  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  till  it 
becomes  glaze.  Glaze  the  larded  side  with  this  and  serve  on  sorrel 
sauce,  which  is  made  as  follows :  Wash  and  pick  some  sorrel,  put  it 
into  a  stewpan  with  only  the  water  that  hangs  about  it ;  keep  stirring 
to  prevent  it  burning,  and  when  done,  lay  it  on  a  sieve  to  dry.  Chip 
and  stew  it  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  4  or  5  tablespoonfuls  of 
good  gravy  for  i  hour,  and  rub  it  through  a  tammy.  '  If  too  acrid, 
add  a  little  sugar,  and  a  little  cabbage,  lettuce  boiled  with  the  sorrel 
will  be  found  to  be  an  improvement.  Two  hours  to  gently  stew  the 
meat.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

FRICANDEAU  OF  VEAL. — A  piece  of  the  fat  side  of  a  leg  of  mut- 
on  (about  3  Ibs.),  lardones,  2  carrots,  2  large  onions,  a  faggot  of 
savory  herbs,  2  blades  of  pounded  mace,  6  whole  allspice,  2  bay 
leaves,  pepper  to  taste,  a  few  slices  of  fat  bacon  and  i  pint  of  stock. 
The  veal  for  a  fricandeau  should  be  of  the  best  quality,  or  it  will  not 
be  good.  It  may  be  known  by  the  meat  being  white  and  not  thready. 
Take  off  the  skin,  flatten  the  veal  on  the  table,  then  at  one  stroke  of 
the  knife  cut  off  as  much  as  is  required,  for  a  fricandeau  with  an  un- 
even surface  never  looks  well.  Trim  it,  with  a  sharp  knife  make  2 
or  3  slits  in  the  middle,  that  it  may  taste  more  of  the  seasoning. 
Now  lard  it  thickly  with  the  fat  bacon,  as  lean  bacon  gives  a  red 
color  to  the  fricandeau.  Slice  the  vegetables  and  put  these  with  the 
spices  and  herbs  in  the  middle  of  a  stew-pan,  with  a  few  slices  of 


DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT.  IOI 

bacon  on  the  top.  These  should  form  a  sort  of  mound  in  the  center 
for  the  veal  to  rest  upon.  Lay  the  fricandeau  over  the  bacon,  sprinkle 
over  it  a  little  salt  and  pour  in  just  sufficient  stock  to  cover  the  ba- 
con,'etc.,  without  touching  the  veal.  Let  it  gradually  come  to  a  boil, 
then  put  it  over  a  slow  and  equal  fire  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently 
for  about  2  1-2  hours,  or  longer,  should  it  be  very  large.  Baste  it 
frequently  with  the  liquor,  and  a  short  time  before  serving  put  it  into 
a  brisk  oven  to  make  the  bacon  firm,  which,  otherwise  would  break 
when  it  was  glazed.  Dish  the  fricandeau  and  serve  with  a  puree  of 
whatever  vegetable  happens  to  be  in  season — spinach,  sorrel,  aspar- 
agus, cucumbers,  peas,  etc.  Cook  21-2  hours.  If  very  large, 
allow  more  time. 

VKAL  CUTLETS. — Three  Ibs.  of  the  prime  part  of  the  leg  of  veal, 
egg  and  bread  crumbs,  3  tablespoon fuls  of  minced  savory  herbs, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Have  the 
veal  cut  in  slices  about  3-4  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and,  if  not  cut 
perfectly  even,  level  the  meat  with  a  cutlet  bat  or  rollingpin.  Shape- 
and  trim  the  cutlets  and  brush  them  over  with  egg.  Sprinkle  with 
breadcrumbs,  with  which  have  been  mixed  some  minced  herbs  and 
a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  press  down  the  crumbs.  Fry 
them  a  delicate  brown  in  fresh  lard  or  butter,  and  be  careful  not  to 
burn  them.  They  should  be  very  thoroughly  done,  but  not  dry.  If 
the  cutlets  are  thick,  keep  the  pan  covered  for  a  few  minutes  at  a 
good  distance  from  the  fire  after  they  have  acquired  a  good  color. 
By  this  means  the  meat  will  be  done  through.  Lay  the  cutlets  in  a 
dish,  keep  them  hot  and  make  a  gravy  in  the  pan  as  follows:  Dredge 
in  a  little  flour,  add  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut,  and  then 
pour  as  much  boiling  water  over  it  as  is  required.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  add  a  little  lemon  juice,  give  one  boil  and  pour  it 
over  the  cutlets.  They  should  be  garnished  with  slices  of  broiled 
bacon,  and  a  few  forcemeat  balls  will  be  found  a  very  excellent 
addition  to  the  dish.  For  cutlets  of  a  moderate  thickness  about 
12  minutes;  if  very  thick,  allow  more  time.  Veal  cutlets  maybe 
nicely  flavored  and  fried  a  nice  brown. 

VEAL — when  eaten — should  have  the  juice  of  an  orange  squeezed 
over  it.— C.  C.  B. 

VEAL  LOAF. — Three  Ibs.  of  veal  cutlets,  1-2  Ib.  of  fat  pork, 
ail  chopped  fine,  i  cup  of  powdered  crackers,  i  cup  of  cold  wa- 
ter, salt,  pepper,  sage,  etc.,  and  i  egg.  Bake  2  1-2  hours. 

CALF'S  HEAD,  ONE-HALF  BOILED  AND  THE  OTHER  BAKED. — 
Cleause  the  head,  parboil  1-2  and  rub  it  over  with  a  feather 
dipped  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Strew  over  it  a  seasoning 
of  pepper,  salt,  thyme,  parsley  chopped  small,  cayenne  pepper,  a 
spoonful  of  powdered  sage,  a  little  nutmeg,  stick  bits  of  butter 


IO2  DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT. 

over  it,  and  then  sprinkle  over  it  thickly  a  teaspoonful  of  grated 
bread  crumbs.  Put  it  in  the  stove,  and  when  it  begins  to  brown 
immediately  baste  it  over  with  melted  butter;  a  very 
few  minutes  will  be  required  to  baste  it.  A  portion  of  the  brains 
may  be  mashed  and  added  to  the  gravy.  Celery  and  vinegar  will 
season  the  gravy  well.  The  housekeeper,  who  directs  in  such  mat- 
ters, should  give  particular  instructions  as  to  the  sauce  to  be  used  in 
each  dish,  adding  ingredients  to  suit  the  tastes  of  those  who  are  to 
be  served.  There  is  but  one  style  of  gravy  or  sauce,  or  not  more 
than  two,  in  the  majority  of  families,  and  these  never  vary.  Nothing 
easier  than  to  give  a  pleasing  variety  when  a  good  supply  of  vinegars 
and  catsups  are  kept  on  hand.  Then  boil  the  other  half  of  the 
head  in  a  white  cloth  and  serve  them  both  in  one  dish.  Boil  the 
other  half  of  the  brains  in  a  piece  of  clean  cloth,  with  a  very  little 
parsley  and  a  leaf  or  two  of  sage.  When  they  are  boiled,  chop 
them  small  and  warm  them  up  in  a  saucepan  with  a  bit  of  butter 
and  a  bit  of  pepper  and  salt.  Lay  the  tongue,  boiled  and  peeled, 
in  the  middle  of  a  small  dish  and  the  brains  around  it.  Have  in 
another  dish  bacon  and  pickled  pork,  and  in  a  third,  greens  and 
carrots. 

LAMB'S  HEAD. — Wash  the  head  very  clean,  take  the  back  part 
from  the  eyes  and  the  gail  from  the  liver.  Lay  the  head  in  warm 
water ;  boil  the  lights,  heart  and  part  of  the  liver,  chop  and  flour 
them,  and  toss  them  up  in  a  saucepan  with  some  gravy,  catsup  and 
a  little  pepper,  salt,  lemon  juice  and  a  spoonful  of  cream.  Boilthe 
head  very  white,  lay  it  in  the  middle  of  the  dish  and  the  minced  meat 
around  it ;  place  the  other  parts  of  the  fried  liver,  with  some  very 
small  bits  of  butter,  on  the  minced  meat,  and  the  brains  fried  in  little 
cakes,  laid  on  the  rim  of  the  dish,  with  some  crisped  parsley  put  be- 
tween. Pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  the  head  and  garnish  with 
lemon. 

LAMB'S  HEAD  MINCED. — Chop  the  head  in  halves  and  blanch  it 
with  the  liver,  heart  and  lights ;  clean  the  brains  in  warm  water,  dip 
them  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  grated  bread  and  chopped  parsley, 
seasoned  with  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  while  the  head  is  blanching, 
fry  them  in  boiling  lard,  and  drain.  Chop  the  heart,  etc.,  and  add  a 
little  parsley  and  lemon  peel  chopped  very  fine,  seasoned  with  white 
pepper  and  salt ;  stew  in  some  cauls  until  tender.  Wash  the  bread 
over  with  yolk  of  egg,  strew  over  grated  bread  seasoned  with  white 
pepper  and  salt,  and  bake  until  tender.  Serve  up,  having  browned 
the  head  with  a  salamander  ;  put  the  mince  under  it  and  the  brains 
around  it  with  slices  of  broiled  bacon. 

COUSIN  GERMAN — (From  a  Chicago  housekeeper). — Take  4  calf's 
feet  thoroughly  cleaned  and  boil  in  3  quarts  of  water  until  done 


DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT.  IO3 

enough  to  fall  to  pieces,  then  strain  off  the  water ;  now  put  the  goose 
into  a  pot,  pour  over  it  the  broth  of  the  calf's  feet  and  enough  water 
to  cover  the  goose  well ;  add  some  vinegar,  spices,  salt,  onions  and 
a  half  peel  of  a  lemon ;  cover  it  and  boil  slowly  until  the  goose  is 
soft.  Let  it  cool  off  in  the  broth,  and  take  out  the  goose  after  it  is 
cold.  Cut  all  the  meat  off  the  bones  and  lay  it  in  a  deep  earthern 
dish.  Take  all  the  fat  off  the  broth,  taste  it,  add  more  vinegar  and 
salt  if  necessary,  let  it  run  through  a  cloth  and  pour  it  over  the 
meat.  It  will  be  nice  and  stiff  after  24  hours,  and  you  can  eat 
it  cold  with  bread  or  cream.  If  you  can  get  gellatine  it  will 
be  so  much  simpler  to  prepare  it.  Boil  the  goose  in  water  and 
spiced  just  as  before.  The  toughest  meat  will  get  tender  if 
boiled  with  vinegar.  The  American  cooks  always  steam  the  goose 
before  roasting.  Try  it  once  without  steaming.  Rub  it  with  salt, 
both  inside  and  outside ;  put  a  little  water  in  your  frying  pan 
and  roast  it  in  a  hot  oven  two  or  three  hours,  according  to  size, 
and  if  it  is  a  young  goose  you  will  find  it  superb. 

PIG'S  PETTITOES. — A  thin  slice  of  bacon,  i  onion,  i  blade  of  mace, 
6  peppercorns,  3  or  4  sprigs  of  thyme,  i  pint  of  gravy,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste — thickening  of  butter  and  flour.  Put  the  liver,  heart  and 
pettitoes  into  a  stewpan  with  the  bacon,  mace,  peppercorns,  thyme, 
onion  and  gravy,  and  simmer  these  gently  for  1-4  of  an  hour ;  then 
take  out  the  heart  and  liver  and  mince  them  very  fine.  Keep  stew- 
ing the  feet  until  quite  tender,  which  will  be  from  20  to  30  minutes, 
reckoning  from  the  time  that  they  boil  up  first ;  then  put  back  the 
minced  liver,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  butter  and  flour,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  simmer  over  a  gentle  fire  for  five  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring  the  contents.  Dish  the-mince,  split  the  feet  and 
arrange  them  around  alternately  with  sippets  of  toasted  bread  and 
pour  the  gravy  in  the  middle.  Altogether  40  minutes. 

SHEEP'S  FEET  OR  TROTTERS. — 12  feet,  1-4  Ib.  of  beef  or  mutton 
suet,  2  onions,  i  carrot,  2  bay  leaves,  2  sprigs  of  thyme,  i  oz.  salt, 
1-4  oz.  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  2  1-2  quarts  of  water,  1-4  Ib. 
fresh  butter,  i  teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  flour  and  pepper,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  the  juice  of  i  lemon,  i  gill  of  milk  and  the  yolks  of 
2  eggs.  Have  the  feet  cleaned  and  the  long  bone  extracted  from 
them,  put  the  suet  into  a  stewpan,  with  the  onions  and  carrot  sliced, 
the  bay  leaves,  thyme,  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  these  simmer  for  five 
minutes ;  add  2  tablespoonfus  of  flour  and  the  water,  and  keep  stir- 
ring till  it  boils,  then  put  in  the  feet.  Let  these  simmer  for  3  hours, 
or  until  perfectly  tender,  take  them  and  lay  them  on  a  sieve,  mix  to- 
gether on  a  plate  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  butter,  salt,  flour  (2  tea- 
spoonfuls),  pepper,  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice,  as  above,  and  put  the 
feet,  with  a  gill  of  milk,  into  a  stewpan  ;  when  very  hot,  add  the 


104  DIFFERENT  WAYS  TO  COOK  MEAT. 

butter,  etc.,  and  stir  continually  until  melted.     Now  mix  the  yolks  of 

2  eggs  with  5  tablespoonfuls  of  milk ;  stir  this  into  the  other  ingre- 
dients, keep  moving  the  pan  over  the  fire  continually  for  a  minute  or 
two,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil  after  the  eggs  are  added.     Serve  in  a 
hot  dish  and  garnish  with  croutons  or  sippets  of  toasted  bread.  Cook 

3  hours.     Seasonable  at  any  time. 

To  FRY  KIDNEYS. — Chop  veal,  mutton,  beef  or  hog's  kidneys  and 
some  of  the  fat,  likewise  a  little  leek  or  onion  (or  not),  cayenne 
pepper  (a  little),  and  salt.  Wet  it  with  an  egg  or  two,  roll  it  up  into 
balls  and  fry  them,  or  they  may  be  parboiled  and  simply  fried  with 
sweet  breads. 

STEWED  Ox  KIDNEYS. — Cut  a  kidney  or  two  into  thin  pieces,  soak 
the  slices  in  water  and  dry  them  well ;  dust  them  with  flour,  pepper 
and  salt,  put  them  into  the  stew  pan  with  a  little  fresh  butter  and 
shake  them  about  over  the  fire  till  brown,  then  pour  some  hot  water, 
broth  or  pot  liquor  into  the  pan  ;  a  shallot  or  two  chopped  fine,  some 
young  onions,  a  little  parsley  and  a  spoonful  of  shallot  vinegar,  on- 
ion or  walnut  pickle  or  catsup.  Cover  the  stewpan  close  and  simmer 
slowly  'till  done. 

LAMB  TO  KEEP  IN  SUMMER. — In  a  few  hours  after  the  lamb  is 
slaughtered  take  all  four  quarters  and  cook  them  well ;  each  subse- 
quent day  afterwards,  as  you  prepare  your  dinner,  place  the  remain- 
ing quarters  back  in  the  stove  and  thoroughly  heat  them.  Pepper 
well ;  add  a  little  salt.  In  this  way  they  will  keep  sweet  for  a  week 
in  the  hottest  weather. 

A  VERY  NICE  DISH. — Take  the  but  end  of  a  neck  of  lamb,  cut  it 
into  steaks  and  chop  each  bone  so  short  as  to  make  the  steaks  al- 
most round.  Egg  and  strew  over  with  crumbs,  herbs  and  seasoning;  fry 
them  of  the  finest  brown,  mash  some  potatoes  with  a  little  butter  and 
cream  and  put  them  into  the  middle  of  the  dish  raised  high.  Then 
place  the  edge  of  one  steak  on  another  with  the  small  bone  upward 
all  around  the  potatoes. 

HODGE  PODGE. — One  pound  of  under-done  cold  mutton,  2  let- 
tuces, i  pint  of  green  peas,  5  or  6  green  onions,  2  ounces  of  butter; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  1-2  teacupful  of  water;  mince  the  mutton 
and  cut  up  the  lettuces  and  onions  in  slices.  Put  these  into  a  stew 
pan  with  all  the  ingredients  except  the  peas,  let  these  simmer  very 
gently  for  3-4  of  an  hour,  keeping  them  well  stirred.  Boil  the  peas 
separately ;  mix  these  with  the  mutton  and  serve  very  hot ;  stew  3-4 
hour. 

A  LAMB'S  HAGGIS. — Slit  up  all  the  little  fat  strips  with  scissors 
and  clean  them  ;  clean  the  kernels  also  and  parboil  the  whole  and 
cut  them  into  little  bits.  Clean  and  shred  the  web  ^.nd  kidney  fat 
and  mix  it  with  the  tripe ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  grated  nut- 


PORK  AND  BACON.  IO5 

meg.  Make  a  thin  batter  with  2  eggs,  1-2  pint  of  milk  and  the 
necessary  quantity  of  flour.  Season  with  chopped  cloves  or  young 
onions ;  mix  the  whole  together,  sew  up  the  bag,  which  must  be  clean, 
and  boil  for  1-2  hour. 

PORK  AND  BACON. 

OLIVE  OIL  is  superior  to  butter,  lard  or  dripping  for  basting  a  pig 
or  fowl ;  it  gives  it  an  evener  and  a  finer  color,  and  more  crispness 
to  the  skin. 

OLIVE  OIL  FOR  COOKING. — Almost  every  kind  of  dish  is  cooked 
in  olive  oil  by  the  inhabitants  of  Syria,  Arabia  and  a  portion  of 
Africa. 

To  BOIL  A  LEG  OF  PORK — (Mrs.  H.'s  recipe). — Pork  requires  longer 
boiling  than  any  other  meat.  If  it  has  befen  salted  6  or  8  days  soak 
it  an  hour  before  cooking.  Scrape  and  wash  it  carefully,  singe  off  any 
hairs  with  a  piece  of  burning  paper  or  corn  husk,  and  avoid  making 
incisions  about  the  knuckle,  as  this  lets  out  the  juice.  Put  it  to  boil 
in  lukewarm  water,  and  boil  slowly  and  steadily,  skimming  carefully ; 
keep  the  cover  on ;  this  will  not  only  keep  out  the  smoke,  but  will 
retain  much  of  the  nutritive  properties  of  the  meat.  Should  the 
least  dross  remain  upon  the  meat  when  done,  scrape  it  off  again.  It 
should  go  to  the  table  white,  clean  and  thoroughly  done,  and  yet 
not  boiled  until  the  meat  drops  from  the  bone ;  it  should  be  rather 
underdone.  This  is  good  cold  or  slightly  heated  and  buttered.  A 
pea  pudding,  from  time  immemorial,  has  been  considered  the  proper 
accompaniment  for  this  dish.  Boiled  turnips,  with  or  without  butter, 
cream  and  pepper,  are  excellent.  When  cold,  nothing  can  be  better 
than  chow-chow  or  French  mustard  as  an  accompaniment. 

To  BOIL  PICKLED  PORK. — Should  the  pork  be  very  salt,  let  it  re- 
main in  water  about  2  hours  before  it  is  dressed.  Put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  it,  let  it  gradually  come  to  a 
boil  and  then  gently  simmer  until  tender.  Allow  ample  time  for  it 
to  cook,  as  nothing  is  more  disagreeable  than  underdone  pork,  and 
when  boiled  fast  the  meat  becomes  hard.  This  is  sometimes  served 
with  boiled  poultry  and  roast  veal,  instead  of  bacon.  When  tender, 
and  not  over  salt,  it  will  be  found  equally  good,  A  piece  of  pickled 
pork  weighing  2  Ibs.,  i  1-2  hours  to  boil.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

BAKING  PORK. — Rub  over  its  surface  some  melted  butter,  strew  it 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  it  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  of  a  brown 
golden  yellow  color.  •  You  can  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper.  It 
is  better  to  roast  it  rather  too  much  than  too  little.  Roast  leg  of 
pork  3  hours,  or. until  tender. 

To  ROAST  A  LEG  OF  PORK. — Cut  the  skins  in  squares,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  baste  with  salt  and  water  while  baking. 


IO6  PORK  AND  BACON. 

SPRING  OR  FOREHAND  OF  PORK. — Cut  out  the  bone,  sprinkle  salt, 
pepper  and  dried  sage  over  the  inside  ;  but  first  warm  a  little  butter 
to  baste  it  with  and  then  flavor  it ;  roll  the  pork  tight  and  tie  it, 
then  roast  it  by  hanging  before  the  fire.  About  2  hours  will  do  it. 

To  ROAST  A  COLLARED  NECK  OF  PORK. — Let  the  meat  be  boned, 
then  strew  the  inside  pretty  well  with  bread  crumbs,  chopped  sage,  a 
very  little  beaten  allspice,  some  salt  and  pepper,  all  mixed  together. 
Roll  it  up  very  close,  bind  it  tightly  and  roast  gently  i  1-2  hours  or 
more,  according  to  the  thickness.  A  loin  of  pork  with  the  fat  and 
kidney  taken  out  and  boned,  and  a  spring  of  pork  boned  are  very 
nice  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

To  FRY  PORK  CHOPS. — Parboil  them  and  then  flour  them  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  fry  them  with  chopped  onions  in  lard. 

PORK  CHOPS  may  be  fried  in  the  same  manner,  dipping  them,  after 
they  are  egged,  in  a  mixture  of  chopped  sage,  onions  and  crumbs  of 
bread  with  pepper  and  salt. 

PORK  CUTLETS  OR  CHOPS. — Loin  of  pork,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Cut  the  cutlets  from  a  delicate  loin  of  pork,  bone  and  brown 
them  nicely  and  cut  away  the  greater  portion  of  the  fat.  Season 
them  with  pepper  and  place  the  gridiron  on  the  fire ;  when  quite  hot 
lay  on  the  chops  and  broil  them  for  1-4  of  an  hour,  turning  them  3 
or  4  times,  and  be  particular  that  they  are  thoroughly  done,  but  not 
dry.  Dish  them,  sprinkle  over  a  little  fine  salt  and  serve  plain  or 
with  tomato  catsup,  some  piquant  sauce,  or  pickled  gherkins,  a  few 
of  which  should  be  laid  around  the  dish  as  a  garnish.  One-quarter 
of  an  hour. 

ROAST  P;G. — Stuff  with  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  sifted  sage,  salt, 
pepper  and  nutmeg,  and  sew  it  up,  lay  it  on  a  brisk  fire  until 
done  thoroughly,  then  have  ready  some  butter  in  a  dry  cloth  and 
rub  the  pig  with  it  in  every  part.  (The  legs  must  be  skewered 
back  or  the  under  part  will  not  crisp.)  Dredge  as  much  flour 
over  it  as  will  probably  lie,  and  do  not  touch  it  again  till  ready  to 
serve;  then  scrape  off  the  flour  very  carefully  with  a  blunt  knife, 
rub  the  pig  well  with  the  buttered  cloth,  and  take  off  the  head 
while  at  the  fire ;  take  ouf  the  brains  and  mix  them  with  the 
gravy  that  comes  from  the  pig.  Then  take  it  up,  and,  without 
draining  the  spit,  cut  it  down  the  back  and  belly  and  lay  it  into 
the  dish  and  chop  the  sage  and  bread  quickly  and  as  fine  as 
you  can,  and  mix  them  with  a  large  quantity  of  fine,  melted  but- 
ter that  has  very  little  flavor.  Put  the  sauce  into  the  dish  after 
the  pig  has  been  split  down  the  back,  and  garnish  with  the  ears 
and  the  two  jaws  ;  take  off  the  upper  part  of  the  head  down  to 
the  neck.  Some  add  to  the  above  stuffing  a  couple  of  onions, 
parboiled,  2  spoonfuls  of  butter  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Apple 


PORK  AND  BACON  IO7 

sauce,  carrot  sauce,  bread  sauce  and  tomato  sauce  are  occasion- 
ally used.  A  pig  will  take  about  2  hours  to  roast.  When  the 
eyes  start  from  the  head  it  is  done  enough.  The  pig  may  be 
roasted  in  a  paper  bag  that  has  been  well  greased  with  beef 
drippings.  Before  roasting,  meat  that  has  been  frozen  should  be 
soaked  2  or  3  hours  or  longer  ia  cold  water,  and  will  require  a 
longer  time  to  roast. 

N.  B. — Do  not  attempt  to  thaw  it  before  the  fire,  or  you  will 
never  be  able  to  roast  it  perfectly  afterward.  Squeeze  in  it  a  lit- 
tle lemon  juice,  and  put  in  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  a  Httle  cayenne 
pepper,  which  should  be  on  the  table.  Roasting  was  the  ancient 
manner  of  dressing  meat. 

ROAST  PIG. — Kill  your  pig  the  evening  previous  or  very  early  in 
the  morning  of  your  wanting  it  to  cook.  Scrape,  singe  and  wash  it 
several  times  in  cold  water,  changing  it  as  often  ;  then  cut  the  feet 
off  at  the  first  joint.  The  heart,  liver  and  feet  should  be  put  in  a  pot 
or  a  pan  to  stew.  Fill  the  body  with  a  rich  stuffing,  as  for  turkey  or 
goose,  or  with  Irish  potatoes  mashed  fine  while  hot,  after  boiling  or 
steaming  them,  which  should  be  highly  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
lard  or  butter  (i  spoonful  each).  After  fastening  the  legs  together, 
sew  the  body  up  and  rub  it  well  with  salt  and  pepper  all  over.  Put 
it  in  a  tin  roaster  before  a  hot  fire,  turn  it  frequently,  and  now  and 
then  rub  it  with  lard  or  butter  tied  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin,  in  order 
to  make  the  skin  crisp  all  over.  If  you  wish  you  can  suspend  it  be- 
fore the  fire  with  a  string  tied  to  a  strong  nail,  and  under  it  place  a 
stew-pan  or  skillet  to  catch  the  gravy.  The  feet  cut  up  and  the 
heart  and  liver  chopped  very  fine,  should  be  boiled  in  clear  water 
with  a  few  sage  leaves.  Take  them  up  and  lay  them  on  a  sieve  and 
season  highly ;  form  a  paste  of  butter  and  flour  and  stir  it  in,  and 
cook  until  tender,  then  take  the  dripping  in  the  pan  or  skillet  and 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  give  it  a  boil  up.  Serve  for  gravy  in  a  sauce 
tureen. 

ROAST  HAM  — Soak  in  lukewarm  water  a  ham,  the  night  before 
you  bake  it.  Four  or  six  hours  before  you  wish  to  serve  it  set  it  in  an 
oven  or  before  a  moderate  fire  in  a  tin  kitchen  or  roasting-pan,  turn  the 
spit  frequently  and  let  it  roast  2  hours.  Then  take  it  up  on  a  dish 
or  pan  and  remove  the  skin  nicely.  Scrape  all  the  fat  off  the  baking 
pan  and  let  it  bake  2  or  3  hours  longer,  basting  it  often  with  the 
gravy  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  When  it  is  done,  take  the  ham  up 
on  a  dish.  It  should  be  brown.  Put  the  gravy  in  a  saucepan,  stir  i 
tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a  teacup  of  water,  pour  it  in  the  same  and 
boil  up.  Serve  this  in  a  sauce  tureen.  This  is  excellent  for  cold 
lunch,  well  peppered,  with  cider. 

FRIED  EGGS  AND  BACON. — This  is  an  old-fashioned  and  handy 


108  PORK  AND  BACON. 

dish  when  a  hasty  meal  is  called  for.  By  a  little  attention  it  can  be 
made  a  nice  dish,  and  for  want  of  it,  will  be  spoiled.  The  bacon 
to  be  fried  should  be  scalded  a  minute  or  two  in  a  fryingpan  on  each 
side  ;  then  pour  off  the  water  before  the  fat  begins  to  run  ;  then  fry 
it  a  moment  until  it  acquires  a 'pale  brown  ;  then  remove  it  on  to  a 
fish  strainer,  break  the  eggs  carefully  into  separate  cups,  so  that  the 
yolks  be  not  broken,  and  slide  them  gently  into  the  pan.  When  the 
whole  of  the  white  is  set,  and  the  under  part  of  a  pale  brown,  take 
each  up  with  a  knife,  and  hold  them  a  moment  over  the  panto  drain 
the  fat  from  them.  Some  persons  turn  them  all  over,  but  if  the  eggs 
are  nicely  done,  the  curled  edges  are  rather  an  improvement  than 
otherwise.  Each  egg  may  be  laid  on  a  slice  of  bacon,  or  laid  sepa- 
rately on  the  fish  plate  with  the  bacon  around  and  garnished  with 
paisley. 

To  ROAST  A  LOIN  OF  PORK. — Cut  the  skin  lengthwise  and  cross- 
wise so  as  to  form  small  squares  and  rub  it  all  over  with  pepper,  salt 
and  finely  powdered  dry  sage  leaves  ;  make  an  incision  between  the 
ribs  and  stuff  it  with  dressing  made  of  bread  crumbs,  chopped  on- 
ions, pepper  and  salt,  mixed  up  with  the  yolk  of  i  or  2  eggs  well 
beaten.  Bake  it  in  a  stove  or  oven,  or  before  the  fire  on  a  spit  and 
baste  it  often  with  lard.  It  may  be  baked  after  it  is  dressed;  fat 
roast  is  the  sweetest. 

COLLARED  PIG'S  FACE. — One  pig's  face  and  salt.  For  brine,  i 
gallon  of  water,  i  pound  of  common  salt,  1-2  handful  of  chopped 
juniper  berries,  6  bruised  cloves,  2  bay  leaves,  a  few  sprigs  of  thyme, 
basil,  sage,  1-4  ounce  saltpetre.  For  force  meat,  1-2  pound  of  ham, 
1-2  pound  of  bacon,  i  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spices;  pepper  to  taste; 
1-4  Ib.  of  lard,  i  tablespoonful  of  mixed  parsley,  6  young  onions  ; 
singe  the  head  carefully,  bone  it  without  breaking  the  skin  and  rub 
it  well  with  salt.  Make  the  brine  by  boiling  the  above  ingredients 
for  1-4  hour  and  letting  it  stand  to  cool.  When  cold,  pour  it  over 
the  head  and  let  it  steep  in  this  for  10  days,  turning  and  rubbing  it 
often,  then  wipe,  drain  and  dry  it.  For  the  force  meat,  pound  the 
ham  and  bacon  very  finely  and  mix  with  them  the  remaining  in- 
gredients, taking  care  that  the  whole  is  thoroughly  incorporated. 
Spread  this  equally  over  the  head,  roll  it  lightly  in  cloth  and  bind 
it  securely  with  broad  tape  ;  put  it  into  a  sauce  pan  with  a  few 
meat  trimmings  and  cover  it  over  with  stock;  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  4  hours  and  be  particular  that  it  does  not  stop  boiling  the 
whole  time.  When  quite  tender  take  it  up,  put  it  between  two 
dishes  with  a  heavy  weight  on  the  top,  and  when  cold  remove 
the  cloth  and  tape.  It  should  be  sent  to  the  table  on  a  napkin 
or  garnished  with  a  piece  of  deep  white  paper  with  a  ruche  on 
the  top.  Four  hours  for  preparing  it. 


PORK  AND  BACON.  ICX) 

To  BAKE  QUARTERS  OF  PIG. — Wash  the  meat  nicely,  cut  the  skin 
lengthwise  and  crosswise  into  small  squares  and  rub  it  with  pep- 
per and  salt.  If  approved  a  little  dust  of  dried  sage ;  put  it  in  the 
oven  with  a  little  water  and  lard  and  bake  it  brown. 

ROAST  SUCKING  PIG. — Put  a  sucking  pig,  as  soon  as  it  is  killed, 
in  a  basin  of  hot,  but  not  boiling  water  for  2  minutes,  then  rub  off 
the  hairs  with  a  cloth ;  if  they  do  not  come  off  easily  put  the  pig 
in  the  water  for  i  minute  more  ;  make  a  slit  down  the  belly,  take  out 
the  entrails,  clean  and  singe  the  pig  and  steep  it  in  cold  water  for  24 
hours ;  after  which  drain  and  dry  it  thoroughly  with  a  cloth.  Make 
stuffing  as  follows :  Chop  a  large  onion  together  with  about  a  dozen 
sage  leaves,  blanch  the  whole  in  boiling  water  for  5  minutes,  drain 
and  put  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  good  spoonful  of  butter,  stir  over  the 
fire  and  simmer  for  10  minutes,  then  add  a  cupful  or  more  of  bread 
crumbs ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  mix  thoroughly  and  fill  the 
inside  of  the  pig  with  the  stuffing,  sew  it  up  with  fine  twine,  truss  the 
legs  and  back  and  put  the  pig  in  the  spit  to  roast  before  a  clear  fire, 
basting  it  with  butter  or  salad  oil.  When  the  pig  is  done  take  it  off 
the  spit,  put  it  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  approved  sauce  in  a 
boat. 

To  DRESS  PIG'S  FRY. — One  and  one-half  pound  of  pig's  fry,  2 
onions,  a  few  sage  Ieaves2,  2  pounds  of  potatoes  ;  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Put  the  lean  fry  at  the  bottom  of  a  pie  dish,  sprinkle  over  it 
some  minced  sage  and  onion  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt ; 
sliced  potatoes ;  put  a  layer  of  these  in  the  seasoning,  then  the  fat 
fry,  then  more  seasoning  and  a  layer  of  potatoes  at  the  top ;  fill  the 
dish  with  boiling  water  and  bake  for  2  hours,  or  rather  longer ;  cook 
rather  more  than  2  hours. 

To  BOIL  A  GAMMON,  OR  BOILING  HAM,  or  any  Salted  or  Smoked 
Meat,  as  Neat's  Tongue,  Hog's  Cheeks,  &c — Set  on  a  kettle  of 
water,  put  in  3  or  4  handfuls  of  hay  flowers,  cloves,  or  any  sweet 
grass  green  leaves  of  Indian  corn,  or  the  husks  ;  or  if  you  cannot  get 
them  green,  hay  tied  up  in  a  coarse  bag  or  cloth  will  do.  By  this 
means  the  meats  will  be  of  a  much  finer  color,  more  tender,  short 
and  mellow. 

An  old  ham  should  be*  soaked  several  hours  before  boiling,  and 
after  being  skimmed  paint  the  top  with  yolks  of  well  beaten  eggs  ; 
sift  over  finely  pulverized  cracker  and  bread  crumbs  evenly,  or  cover 
over  a  thin  coat  of  Irish  potatoes,  straining  through  a  colander ;  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  1-2  hour ;  skin  the  ham  or  not,  as  you  may  fancy. 
If  the  skin  remains,  with  a  sharp  knife  you  can  cut  the  skin  in  dia- 
mond shapes,  then  fill  it  with  grated  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  or 
grated  beets  or  carrots ;  trim  the  dish  with  parsley  or  the  tops  of  eel-, 
ery.  If  the  ham  be  skinned  stick  it  with  cloves  in  diamond  shapes, 


I IO  PORK  AND  BACON. 

fill  up  the  places  with  a  layer  of  grated  yolks  and  i  white  of  hard 
boiled  eggs.  Be  careful  not  to  blend  them.  Garnish  the  dish  with 
sprigs  of  green  double  parsley  interspersed  with  pretty  flowers  cut 
from  vegetables  ;  make  red,  pink,  cream  colored  and  white  roses  of 
beets;  purple  and  yellow  roses  of  carrots,  and  pearl  white  with 
turnips  ;  for  leaves  use  mustard  or  curled  parsley.  Ornament  the 
knuckle  with  letter  paper  of  different  colors,  or  white ;  cut  with  letter 
paper. 

Miss  F.'s  RECIPE  for  preparing  whole  hams  for  parties. — Boil 
them  till  very  done  and  skin  them  ;  when  cold  cut  through  the  ham 
in  slices  to  the  bone,  but  do  not  cut  the  slices  from  the  bone.  Be- 
tween each  slice,  put  thin  pieces  of  pickle  and  detach  the  slices  as 
needed.  The  ham  dressed  by  either  of  these  receipts  will  show  to 
better  advantage  by  being  slightly  elevated  above  the  dish.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley  or  something  green.  Save  the  essence  or  gravy  for 
boiling  cabbage,  beans,  peas,  or  Irish  potatoes,  and  soups,  &c. 

GLAZE  FOR  COVERING  COLD  HAMS,  TONGUES,  &c. — Use  either 
rich  stock  or  white  stock,  denoting  the  quantity  of  meat  in  each. 
It  may  be  remarked  at  the  outset  that  unless  glaze  is  wanted  in  very 
large  quantities  it  is  seldom  made  expressly  ;  either  of  the  stocks 
above  mentioned  boiled  down  and  realtered  considerably,  will  be 
found  to  produce  a  very  goed  glaze.  Put  the  stock  into  a  stew  pan 
over  a  nice  clear  fire,  let  it  boil  till  it  becomes  somewhat  stiff,  when 
keep  stirring  to  prevent  its  burning.  The  moment  it  is  sufficiently 
reduced  and  comes  to  a  glaze  turn  it  out  into  the  glazing  pot  or 
white  earthenware  jar  to  melt  the  glaze  when  required.  It  should 
never  be  warmed  in  a  sauce  pan,  lest  it  should  reduce  too  much 
and  become  black  and  bitter.  If  the  glaze  is  wanted  of  a  pale  color 
more  veal  than  beef  should  be  mixed  in  making  the  stock ;  and  it  is 
as  well  to  omit  turnips  and  celery,  as  thev  impart  a  disagreeable  bit- 
ter flavor. 

To  GLAZE  HAM  (boiling). -^Brush  over  the  ham  (using  a  feather 
or  brush)  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  cover  thickly  with  bread  crumbs 
and  go  over  it  with  thick  cream  ;  put  it  in  the  stove  or  oven  to  brown, 
put  the  glaze  on  1-2  inch  thick  and  if  necessary  put  it  on  a  second 
time. 

How  TO  BOIL  HAM  to  give  it  an  excellent  flavor. — Vinegar  and 
water,  2  heads  of  celery,  2  turnips,  3  onions,  a  large  bunch  of 
savory  herbs.  Let  the  ham  soak  from  8  to  12  hours,  wash  it 
thoroughly  clean,  and  trim  away  from  the  under  sides  all  the  rusty 
and  smoked  parts,  which  would  spoil  the  appearance,  and  let  it 
soak  for  a  few  hours  in  vinegar  and  water ;  put  it  on  in  cold  wa- 
ter, and  when  it  boils  add  the  vegetables  and  herbs;  simmer  very 
gently  until  tender,  take  it  out,  strip  off  the  skin,  cover  with  bread 
raspings  and  put  a  paper  ruche  around  the  knuckle. 


PORK  AND  BACON.  Ill 

A  VALUABLE  SUGGESTION. — Cut  ham  or  salt  pork  in  slices  for 
frying  or  broiling,  put  to  soak  over  night  in  equal  proportions  of 
sweet  or  sour  milk  and  water,  for  breakfast,  and  several  hours 
before  any  other  meal. 

To  SWEETEN  SALT  PORK. — Cut  as  many  slices  as  will  be  re- 
quired for  breakfast  the  evening  previous  and  soak  till  morning 
in  sweet  milk  and  water,  then  rinse  clean  in  clear  water  and  fry. 
The  pork  will  be  found  nearly  as  good  as  when  fresh. 

To  BAKE  A  HAM. — Many  people  think  a  ham  is  never  so  thor- 
oughly well  cooked  as  in  the  oven.  It  should  first  lie  in  cold  water 
for  12  hours,  then  in  warm  milk  and  water  for  6  hours.  Cover  it  en- 
tirely with  a  coarse  paste  or  put  it  into  an  oiled  paper  bag,  so  that 
.none  of  the  gravy  may  escape,  and  place  it  on  a  baking  dish  and 
bake  it  in  a  well  heated  oven  for  4  or  5  hours,  according  to  size  ; 
when  taken  from  the  oven  remove  the  paste  or  bag  and  the  skin. 
Brush  it  over  with  white  of  egg,  cover  it  with  raspings  of  bread,  and 
brown  for  a  few  minutes  before  the  fire  or  stove. 

BAKED  HAM — (Mrs.  Denny,  San  Jose,  Cal ) — Wash  your  ham 
clean,  wipe  it  dry,  then  boil  it  for  2  hours  in  clear  water,  then  take 
off,  carefully  remove  the  skin,  then  put  it  into  a  clean  oven ;  mix 
together  i  pound  each  of  nice  sugar  and  finely  powdered  bread 
crumbs  and  put  them  evenly  over  the  ham  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 
It  is  just  as  nice  as  can  be.  The  ham  should  be  new  and  sweet. 
Begin  at  the  hock  bone  to  cut. 

TOAST  HAM. — Chop  some  lean  ham,  put  in  a  pan  with  a  little 
pepper,  a  lump  of  butter  and  2  eggs  beaten.  When  beaten  thor- 
oughly, spread  it  on  buttered  toasts  and  serve  hot. 

To  ROAST  A  HAM. — Trim  the  ham  and  soak  it  for  24  hours  to  re- 
move the  salt,  then  put  it  into  a  deep  earthen  pan  with  3  onions  and 
3  carrots  sliced,  and  1-2  ounce  of  black  pepper.  Pour  over  a  bot- 
tle of  light  French  wine,  cover  it  closely  up,  and  let  it  remain  in  this 
marinade  24  hours,  then  roast  |it  before  the  fire,  basting  it  with 
the  marinade.  It  will  require  from  4  to  5  hours  to  be  well  cooked. 
Skin  it  and  braise  the  ham  over,  and  in  the  meantime  reduce  the 
marinade  and  gravy  over  the  fire  to  a  sauce  and  pour  it  around 
the  ham  when  served.  It  may  be  eaten  hot  or  cold ;  excellent 
when  cold  for  lunch. 

STUFFED  HAM. — After  boiling  the  ham  skin  it,  and  have  ready 
a  dressing  made  of  corn  meal  muffins  or  grated  biscuits,  add  i 
moderate  sized  onion  chopped  very  fine,  2  leaves  of  sage,  pepper, 
sugar  and  salt  to  taste,  a  few  celey  sticks  ;  with  a  large  knife  make 
incisions  all  over  the  ham  and  press  the  dressing  in. — Mrs. 
Rogers. 

ROAST  HAM. — Soak  a  ham  in  tepid  water  the  night  before  you 


112  SWEET  BREADS. 

wish  to  roast  it.  Four  hours  before  you  wish  to  serve  it  set  it 
before  a  moderate  fire,  turn  the  spit  and  let  it  roast  two  hours, 
then  bake  it  upon  a  dish  or  pan  and  take  the  skin  off  nicely  :  scrape 
all  the  fat  out  of  the  roaster,  put  in  the  ham  and  let  it  roast  2  hours 
more ;  baste  it  often  with  the  drippings  in  a  sauce  pan,  stir  i  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  a  teacupful  of  water,  pour  it  in  the  sauce  and 
boil  up.  Serve  in  a  tureen. 

SWEET  BREADS: 

BAKED  SWEET  BREADS. — Let  them  lay  in  water  i  hour  before 
using,  parboil  them,  cut  slits  over  them  and  lay  in  strips  of  bacon  ; 
put  the  sweet  breads  in  a  hollow  baking  dish,  pour  in  a  tumbler  of 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  rub  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste, 
and  serve  as  soon  as  done  ;  i  pint  of  oysters  added  to  the  gravy  will 
improve  it. 

LAMB'S  SWEET  BREADS. — Blanch  them  and  put  them  a  little  while 
into  cold  water,  then  put  them  into  a  stew  pan  with  a  teacupful  of 
broth  ;  some  pepper,  salt,  a  small  bunch  of  onions  and  a  blade  ot 
mace ;  stir  in  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour  and  stew  1-2  hour.  Have 
ready  2  or  three  eggs  well  beaten  in  cream  with  a  little  minced  pars- 
ley and  a  few  grates  of  nutmeg.  Put  in  some  boiled  asparagus  tops 
to  the  other  things;  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  cream  is  in,  but  make 
it  hot,  and  stir  it  well  all  the  time.  Take  care  that  it  does  not  cur- 
dle. Young  French  beans  or  peas  may  be  added,  first  boiled  of  a 
beautiful  color. 

SWEET  BREADS  SAUTE. — Soak  your  sweet  breads  in  tepid  water 
several  hours  to  free  them  from  blood,  then  pour  boiling  water  over 
them  and  let  stand  for  3  minutes,  then  melt  some  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  and  put  in  the  sweet  breads ;  season  over  with  salt,  pepper, 
juice  of  lemon,  parsley  and  bay  leaf ;  turnover  till  done  and  serve 
hot  with  maitre  d'hotel  sauce  over. 

SWRET  BREADS  BOILED — (Mrs.  Bates'.) — Parboil,  rub  them  well 
with  butter  and  broil  on  a  clean  gridiron  ;  turn  them  often,  and  now 
and  then  roll  them  over  in  a  plate  containing  hot  melted  butter  to 
prevent  them  from  getting  hard  and  dry. 

To  BROIL  A  SWEET  BREAD. — Parboil  it,  rub  it  with  butter  and 
broil  it  over  a  slow  fire ;  turn  it  frequently  and  baste  it  now  and 
then  by  putting  it  upon  a  plate  kept  warm  by  the  fire  with  butter  in 
it, 


HASHES. 


BKAINS. 

To  COOK  BRAINS. — They  may  be  fried  in  butter,  boiled  in  milk, 
and  then  placed  in  vinegar  or  boiled  in  water  2  or  3  minutes,  then 
beaten  fine,  mingled  with  sage,  salt,  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  gill  of  cream, 
fried  in  the  form  of  drop  cakes  in  butter.  They  should  be  carefully 
washed  before  cooking.  When  well  cooked  nothing  is  more  deli- 
cious. 

LAMB'S  BRAINS — How  TO  PREPARE  THEM. — One-half  pint  of  pure 
vinegar  and  tne  same  of  water,  salt,  and  1-2  lemon  or  a  whole 
lime  and  a  heap  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Previously 
boil  the  brains  in  some  vinegar  diluted  with  water,  and  some  salt ; 
mince  them  and  add  to  them  the  yolk  of  a  beaten  egg  with  a 
spoonful  of  milk  or  cream  and  the  lemon  juice.  Liver  plack  may 
be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  but  should  first  be  parboiled,  then 
stewing  down  with  onions,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  sage  and 
parsley  and  thyme  till  the  gravy  is  clear. 

BRAINS. — Steep  them  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  then  pick  out 
all  the  skinny  particles  from  the  surface,  being  careful  not  to  bruise 
the  brains ;  when  very  clean  and  white  put  them  into  a  stew  pan  with 
i  quart  of  water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  boil 
gently  for  28  minutes. 

LANFI  means  anything  cooked  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  oil, 
lard,  or  fat  i  side  at  a  time.  Serve  hot  with  sugar  sifted  over.  Ris- 
sole flazzie  must  be  sauted  till  of  a  golden  yellow,  being  egged 
over. 

HASHES. 

Hashes,  by  the  manner  in  which  they  are  prepared,  are  frequently 
impoverished,  hardened  and  rendered  indigestible.  It  is  no  uncom- 
mon thing  to  see  a  hash  stewed  away  for  an  hour  or  more,  or  hear  a 
cook  say  she  must  set  the  hash  on  in  good  time  to  make  the  gravy 
rich.  It  is  no  wonder  that  there  are  so  many  persons  t©  be  met  with 
whom  hash  constantly  disagrees.  This  would  not  be  the  case  were 
the  preparing  carried  on  in  a  proper  manner.  Let  these  two  obser- 
vations be  borne  in  mind  for  hashes  in  general :  First,  that  the  gravy 
should  bring  richness  to  the  meat,  not  enriched  by  it.  Second,  that 
instead  of  stewing  on  the  hob  or  corner  of  the  stove,  the  fewer  min- 
utes the  hash  is  in  the  stewpan  the  better ;  even  the  meat,  when  un- 
derdone, when  cut  in  thin  slices,  a  minute  or  two  will  sufficiently  do 
it.  Cold  beef,  mutton  or  fowls  of  any  kind  will  make  a  most  excel- 
lent hash  as  well  as  beefs  heart. 


114  HASHES. 

MRS.  H.'s  RECIPE  FOR  BEEF  HASH. — Two  tumblers  of  hot  water, 
a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  3  tablespoonfuls  each  of  grated  cheese 
and  bread  crumbs,  season  highly  with  cayenne  pepper,  and  add  3 
tumblerfuls  of  minced  beef.  Serve  as  soon  as  hot.  Stir  all  well  to- 
gether. This  is  from  a  very  accomplished  housekeeper. 

MRS.  J.'s  BAKED  HASH. — Take  cold  round  of  good  beef  or  mut- 
ton and  mince  it  fine,  seasoned  with  a  little  minced  onion,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Chop  green  pickle  (onion  is  the  best),  add  a  little 
vinegar.  Put  into  a  deep  dish  a  layer  of  meat,  then  one  of 
pickle,  sliced  thin,  one  of  bread  crumbs  over  that,  butter  and 
gravy.  Repeat  this  until  all  is  in,  putting  bread  crumbs  and 
butter  last ;  let  it  bake  a  few  moments  until  a  nice  crust  is  formed, 
and  serve  hot.  Should  there  be  but  little  gravy,  moisten  with  a 
little  ssveet  milk  and  water  mixed  in  equal  proportions.  Very 
little  is  necessary. 

IRISH  POTATO  HASH — (A  Michigan  recipe). — Peel  and  wash 
Irish  potatoes,  slice  thin  and  put  to  stew  in  a  very  little  water ; 
when  nearly  done,  add  as  much  pickled  beef,  minced  very  fine, 
or  cold  salt  mackerel  if  liked,  (a  little  onion  and  minced  parsley 
may  be  put  in  with  the  Irish  potatoes),  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Serve  hot.  This  should  just  be 
moist.  Mash  the  potatoes  and  mix  them  well  with  the  meat, 
This  Is  a  favorite  dish. 

To  HASH  DUCKS. — Cut  them  into  pieces,  as  in  carving  at  table, 
and  soak  them  by  the  side  of  the  fire  in  boiling  gravy,  until  they 
are  thoroughly  hot.  Add  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  minced  spices  to  give  the  sauce  a  high  relish,  or  cut  up  the 
ducks  and  make  a  gravy  of  the  trimmings,  and  some  onions. 
Thicken  it,  when  strained,  with  butter  browned  with  flour;  stew 
the  cut  ducks  gently  until  ready,  and  having  seasoned  with  sauce. 
Serve  the  hash  on  small  slices  of  fried  bread. 

To  HASH  A  DRESSED  GOOSE. — Cut  up  a  large  onion  and  put  it 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  butter ;  fry  it,  but  without  letting  it 
become  brown;  add  thereto  as  much  boiling  water  as  will  make 
sauce  for  the  hash,  thicken  it  with  flour,  cut  up  the  goose  and  put 
it  into  the  sauce,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Season  with  pepper, 
salt  and  catsup. 

The  legs  of  geese  broiled  and  served  with  apple  sauce  form  a 
good  supper,  luncheon  or  tiffin. 

To  HASH  TURKEY. — Cut  the  flesh  into  pieces  and  take  off  the 
skin,  otherwise  it  will  give  the  gravy  a  greasy,  disagreeable  taste. 
Put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
pickle,  a  slice  of  the  end  of  lemon  and  a  little  beaten  mace.  Let 
it  boil  6  or  7  minutes,  and  then  put  it  into  your  dish.  Thicken  your 


HASHES.  115 

gravy  with  flour  and  butter,  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  a  spoonful 
of  thick,  new  cream,  put  it  into  your  gravy  and  shake  it  over  the  fire 
till  it  is  quite  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  then  strain  it  and  pour  it  over 
your  turkey.  Lay  slices  of  fried  bread  around  and  serve  it,  and 
garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. 

EXCELLENT  TURKEY  HASH. — Chop  2  large  or  4  medium-sized 
onions,  put  in  a  frying-pan  with  enough  beef  dripping  and  butter  to 
fry  the  onions  tender,  then  add  3  cups  of  chopped  turkey,  with  salt, 
black  pepper,  a  little  thyme  or  nutmeg  ;  add  boiling  water  enough 
to  moisten  without  making  much  gravy,  dredge  in  some  flour  and 
stir  it.  Boil  and  serve  it,  or  turn  it  over  half  slices  of  well-buttered 
toast. 

To  HASH  A  CALF'S  HEAD. — Clean  and  parboil  the  head,  or  take 
what  is  left  of  a  plainly-boiled  cold  head,  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces 
or  slugs.  Peel  and  slice  the  tongue.  Take  upwards  of  a  quart  of 
liquor  in  which  the  head  was  boiled,  with  the  bones  and  trimmings, 
and  a  shank  of  veal  or  mutton,  and  boil  these  for  the  hash  stock 
with  sage,  thyme,  parsley,  white  pepper,  onions  and  a  little  grated 
lemon  peel ;  boil  this  gravy  until  it  is  good  and  well  flavored,  then 
thicken  it  with  flour  kneaded  in  butter  and  strain  it  into  a  saucepan. 
Season  with  pounded  mace,  catsup  or  lemon  pickle,  or  a  little  piquant 
sauce,  and  warm  up  the  hash  without  boiling,  though  boiling  does 
not  harden  calf's  head  as  it  does  meat.  Garnish  with  forcemeat  balls 
fried,  and  fried  bread,  which  form  a  suitable  accompaniment  to  all 
hashes.  Pickled  oysters  added  make  a  great  improvement. 

To  HASH  MUTTON. — Cut  thin  slices  of  dressed  mutton,  fat  and 
lean,  and  flour  them.  Have  ready  an  onion  boiled  in  2  or  3  spoon- 
fuls of  water ;  add  to  it  a  little  gravy  and  the  meat  seasoned. 

To  HASH  VENISON. — Slice  the  meat  and  warm  it  through  without 
boiling,  in  its  own  gravy,  or  in  any  other  that  is  unseasoned.  If 
there  is  no  fat  left  from  the  preceding  dinner,  that  of  mutton  may 
be  substituted,  by  setting  it  over  the  fire  with  a  little  California  wine 
and  sugar,  and  letting  it  simmer  until  dry;  then  put  it  to  the  hash, 
and  it  will  not  be  distinguishable  from  the  fat  of  venison.  Onions 
are  a  decided  improvement. 

To  HASH  COLD  FOWL  OF  ANY  KIND,  AND  ALSO  BEEF  OR  MUTTON. 
— Cut  cold  fowls  to  pieces,  and  if  you  have  no  gravy  put  in  some 
water  or  milk  or  an  equal  portion  of  both  (the  milk  must  be  sweet 
and  new),  boil  until  the  bones,  if  there  be  any,  can  be  taken  up  on  a 
dish  and  removed,  while  the  gravy  and  meat  can  be  poured  with  the 
true  gravy  in  the  saucepan ;  then  put  in  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
When  it  boils,  stir  up  new  cream  with  a  little  flour  and  thicken  it, 
and  a  well  beaten  egg  can  be  added,  and  chopped  pickled  cucum- 
bers. As  soon  as  thoroughly  hot,  if  approved,  squeeze  in  a  little 


Il6  CROQUETS. 

lemon  juice,  grated  nutmeg  and  lemon  peel.  Pour  the  whole  into  a 
dish,  strew  over  it  some  crumbs  of  bread  browned,  and  then  serve  it 
hot  on  the  table. 

CROQUETS. 

CROQUETS  OF  TURKEY. — The  remains  of  cold  turkey ;  to  each 
1-2  pound  of  meat  allow  2  ounces  of  ham  or  bacon,  2  shallots,  i 
ounce  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
and  bread  crumbs.  The  smaller  pieces  that  will  not  do  for  a  fricassee 
or  hash  will  answer  very  well  for  this  dish.  Mince  the  meat  finely 
with  the  ham  or  bacon  in  the  above  proportions,  make  a  gravy  of  the 
bones  and  trimmings,  well  seasoning  it,  mince  the  shallots,  put  them 
into  a  stew  pan  with  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  mix  well,  then  put  in 
the  mince  and  about  1-2  pint  of  gravy  made  from  the  bones.  (The 
proportion  of  the  butter  must  be  increased  or  diminished  according 
to  the  quantity  of  mince.)  When  just  boiled  add  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  put  the  mixture  out  to  cool,  and  then  shape  it  in  a  wineglass, 
cover  the  croquets  with  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  them  a  deli- 
cate brown.  Put  small  pieces  of  parsley  stems  for  stalks  and  serve 
with  salted  bacon  cut  very  thin.  Eight  minutes  to  fry  the  croquets. 

SWEET  BREAD  CROQUETS. — Take  some  blanched  throat  of  sweet 
breads,  trim  and  cut  them  in  1-4  inch  slices;  cut  an  equal  quantity  of 
mushrooms  in  the  same  way  and  mix  both  together  in  some  stiffly 
reduced  German  sauce  ;  make  it  fry  the  croquets  as  above. 

POTATO  CROQUETS. — Roast  12  large  Irish  potatoes ;  when  done, 
with  a  spoon  or  fork  take  out  the  inside  and  form  into  a  ball ;  when 
cold  put  them  into  a  mortar  with  a  piece  of  butter  about  1-2  the 
size  of  the  ball  of  potatoes  and  pound  them  well  together  or  work 
them  well  with  the  hands ;  season  with  a  little  pepper,  salt,  chopped 
shallot,  chopped  parsley  and  grated  nutmeg;  mix  with  the  beaten 
yolks  of  6  eggs  and  2  whole  eggs,  then  form  them  into  croquets 
about  the  size  of  beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  2  whole  eggs,  or  a 
small  one;  bread-crumb  them  twice  over,  fry  them  a  light  brown 
color  in  hot  lard  and  serve  with  a  garnature  of  cresses  or  parsley  or 
chopped  cabbage  lettuce. 

CROQUETS  can  be  made  of  rice  and  potato  or  lobster,  salmon, 
cod,  crab,  halibut  chicken,  turkey,  duck,  goose,  game,  veal,  beef, 
lamb  or  mutton ;  all  kinds  of  fowl,  flesh,  fish  and  vegetables. 
When  croquets  are  small  they  are  called  in  cookery  books  "olives" 
of  meat,  vegetables,  game,  veal,  poultry,  &c.  When  these  little 
popular  roulettes  are  larger  they  are  called  risoles  or  croquettes, 
the  larger  size  miratons. 

NOTE — In  the  preparation  of  these  little  balls  or  cakes  any  kind 


SCALLOPS.  117 

of  cold  meat,  &c.,  can  be  used,  and  the  housekeeper  can  carry 
out  the  Divine  command  to  "gather  up  the  fragments  that  nothing 
remains." 

RICE  CROQUETS. — (Mrs.  H.'s) — Two  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice,  2 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  3  eggs  beaten  light,  a  little  flour,  i  raw 
egg  and  1-2  cup  of  powdered  cracker;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
sugar,  a  large  pinch  of  finely  grated  lemon  peel,  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat 
eggs  and  sugar  together  until  light,  and  work  the  butter  well  into 
the  rice  ;  next  stir  up  with  this  the  beaten  eggs ;  Season  and  make 
into  croquets  of  whatever  shape  you  fancy.  They  are  pretty  moulded 
into  the  form  of  pears  with  a  clove  blossom,  and  cut  at  the 
large  end  and  the  stalk  of  another  projecting  from  the  small  to  rep- 
resent the  pear  stem.  You  may  find  it  advisable  to  use  a  little 
flour  in  working  the  rice  paste,  but  be  careful  not  to  get  it  too  stiff, 
in  which  event  the  croquet,  of  whatever  composed,  ceases  it  to  be  a 
delicacy.  Roll  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  eggs  ;  lastly  in  the  pow- 
dered cracker,  and  fry  a  few  at  a  time  in  sweet  lard  or  butter. 

Rice  croquets  are  sometimes  eaten  with  powdered  sugar  sprinkled 
thickly  over  them  as  a  dessert  or  sweet  sauce  served  with  them.  They 
are  delicious  when  properly  mixed  and  cooked. 

CROQUETS  of  field  peas,  salsify,  turnips,  beans  and  parsnips  may 
be  made  in  the  same  way,  using  any  kind  of  meat,  leaving  out  the 
sweetening,  adding  a  little  chopped  onion,  shallot  or  cloves. 

SCALLOPS  OR  COLLOPS. 

To  DRESS  COLLOPS  QUICK. — Cut  them  as  thin  as  paper  with  a 
very  sharp  knife  in  small  bits,  throw  the  skin  and  any  odd  bits  of  the 
veal  into  a  little  water  with  a  dust  of  pepper  and  salt ;  set  them  on 
the  fire  while  you  beat  the  collops  and  dip  them  into  a  seasoning  of 
herbs,  bread,  pepper,  salt  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  but  first  wet 
them  in  egg,  then  put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan  and  give  the 
collops  a  very  quick  fry,  for  as  they  are  so  thin  2  minutes  will  do 
them  on  both  sides ;  then  put  them  into  a  hot  dish  before  the  fire, 
then  strain  and  thicken  the  gravy,  give  it  a  boil  in  the  frying  pan  and 
pour  it  over  the  collops.  A  little  catsup  is  an  improvement ;  or  fry 
them  in  butter  only  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  simmer  them 
in  the  gravy,  either  white  or  brown,  with  bits  of  bacon  served  with 
them.  If  white,  add  lemon  peel  and  mace  and  some  sweet  cream. 

To  DRESS  SCOTCH  COLLOPS  BROWN. — Cut  your  collops  the  same 
way  as  the  white  ones,  but  brown  your  butter  befoie  you  lay  in  your 
collops  ;  fry  them  over  a  quick  fire,  shake  and  turn  them,  and  keep 
on  them  a  fine  froth  ;  when  they  are  a  light  brown  put  them  into  a 
pot  and  fry  them  as  the  white  ones ;  when  you  have  fried  them  all 


Jl8  SCALLOPS. 

brown  pour  all  the  gravy  from  them  into  a  clean  tossing  pan  with  1-2 
pint  of  the  gravy  made  of  the  bones  and  bits  you  cut  the  collops  off ;  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  pickle,  a  large  one  of  catsup,  the  same  of 
browning,  1-2  ounce  of  morels,pi-2  lemon,  a  little  cayenne,  and  salt 
to  your  taste.  Thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter  and  let  it  boil  5  or 
6  minutes,  then  put  in  your  collops  and  shake  them  over  the  fire  ; 
if  they  boil  it  will  make  them  hard  ;  when  they  have  simmered  a  lit- 
tle take  them  out  with  an  egg  spoon  and  lay  them  on  your  dish  ; 
strain  your  gravy  and  pour  it  hot  over  them  ;  lay  over  the  forcemeat 
balls  and  little  slices  of  bacon  curled  round  with  a  skewer  and  boiled. 
Strew  a  few  mushrooms  over ;  garnish  with  lemon  and  barberries  and 
serve  them  up. 

MINCED  COLLOPS — (Mrs.  Chevallie,  Va.) — Take  any  under  part 
of  the  beef,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  season  it  with  nutmeg,  pepper  and 
salt,  put  it  into  a  pan  with  an  onion  sliced  fine  and  fry  a  light  brown, 
then  put  to  it  a  gill  of  gravy,  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  a  few  capers  or 
mushrooms,  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  butter. 

FILLET  OF  VEAL  WITH  COLLOPS. — Take  a  small  fillet  of  veal  and 
cut  up  what  collops  you  want,  then  take  the  udder  and  fill  it  with 
force  meat,  roll  it  round,  tie  it  with  pack  thread  across  the  middle. 
Garnish  with  lemon. 

TURKEY  SCALLOP— (Mother's.) — Cut  up  the  cold  fowl  very  small, 
removing  the  bones  and  skins,  then  put  on  the  bottom  of  a  well  but- 
tered dish  a  layer  of  fine  stale  bread  crumbs  moistened  slightly  with 
new  milk,  that  it  may  not  absorb  all  the  gravy,  spread  over  this  a 
layer  of  the  minced  turkey  with  bits  of  cold  stuffing,  pepper,  salt,  bits 
of  butter,  then  another  layer  of  crumbs,  then  of  the  fowl,  and  thus 
continue  to  repeat  till  the  dish  is  nearly  full.  Before  putting  on  the 
upper  crust  pour  in  the  gravy  left  from  the  cold  turkey,  add  some 
Worcester  sauce,  catsup  and  butter.  Have  ready  some  crumbs, 
seasoned  with  salt  and  beaten  up  light  with  2  eggs,  then  spread  it 
smoothly  over  the  dish,  put  lumps  of  butter  plentifully  upon  it  and 
bake.  Turn  a  deep  plate  over  the  dish  until  its  contents  begin  to 
bubble  at  the  sides,  showing  that  it  is  thoroughly  cooked,  which  will 
take  4  5  minutes. 

SCALLOPED  OVSTERS. — Use  a  pan  or  an  earthen  dish,  such  as  is 
adapted  for  puddings,  say  about  3  inches  in  depth,  commence  by 
placing  stale  bread  crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan  or  dish,  then  a 
layer  of  oysters  with  a  little  liquor  of  the  oysters  over  them,  drop  in 
some  lumps  of  butter  on  the  oysters,  continue  making  layers  of  bread 
crumbs  and  layers  of  (collops)  oysters  alternately  till  the  dish  is  filled. 
Cook  in  a  heated  oven  till  thoroughly  browned.  On  each  layer  of 
oysters  season  with  pepper,  salt,  mace,  parsley ;  allspice  to  taste. 


SAUSAGES. 


SAUSAGES. 

SAUSAGES. — A  well-known,  seasoned  minced  meat  of  celebrity 
requires  much  care  in  mingling  the  seasoning  and  ingredients  in  due 
proportion  to  produce  that  desired  harmony  of  materials  that  may 
defy  the  critical  to  discover  what  they  are  composed  of. 

FISH  SAUSAGES. — Remove  the  bones  and  mince  any  kind  of  fish 
that  has  been  left,  then  add  equal  quantities  of  bread  crumbs  and 
mashed  potatoes,  with  2  eggs  well  beaten  to  bind  it ;  then  add  some 
cream  to  make  of  the  proper  consistency,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  then,  with  the  hands,  make  into  little  balls  and  flatten,  and 
fry  in  boiling  fat. 

SPICED  SAUSAGE — (French). — Black  pepper,  5  Ibs. ;  cloves  and 
nutmeg,  i  1-2  Ibs.  each;  ginger,  2  1-2  Ibs.;  annise  and  coriander 
seeds,  3-4  lb.  each.  Mix. 

SMOKED  SCOTCH  SAUSAGES — To  KEEP  AND  EAT  COLD. — Salt  a 
piece  of  beef  for  2  days  and  mince  it  with  suet  and  season  highly 
with  pepper,  salt,  onion  or  shallot.  Fill  the  large  and  perfectly  cleaned 
ox  entrail,  plait  it  in  links  and  hang  it  up  to  dry.  Boil  it  as  wanted, 
either  a  single  link  or  all  together. 

.  BOLOGNA  SAUSAGES. — To  serve  these  sausages  is  to  slice  them  in 
rounds  about  i-S  of  an  inch  thick,  remove  the  skins,  boil  them  for  a 
moment,  if  preferred,  and  dish  them  up  with  melted  butter  and  pars- 
ley, or  they  can  simply  be  cut  up  and  placed  in  a  dish  to  be  eaten. 

ROYAL  SAUSAGES. — Chop  the  flesh  of  quails  and  of  a  pullet,  with 
bacon,  a  piece  of  a  leg  of  raw  veal,  onions  or  shallots,  parsley,  mush- 
rooms, and  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  beaten  spice  and  a  clove  or 
two  of  garlic ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  a  little  cream  ;  mix 
these  well  together;  roll  it  in  thick  pieces  and  wrap  them  up  in  very 
thin  slices  cut  out  of  fillet  of  a  veal  beaten  flat,  so  that  the  sausages 
may  be  about  the  thickness  of  2  inches  and  5  inches  in  length ;  then 
garnish  an  oval  stewpan  with  slices  of  bacon  and  beefsteaks,  and 
put  in  your  sausages,  cover  them  with  beefsteaks  and  lay  slices  of 
bacon  over  the  beef;  cover  the  stewpan  very  close  and  set  it  between 
two  gentle  fires,  the  one  under  and  the  other  over  it,  or  in  a  moderate 
stove ;  let  them  stew  for  8  or  10  hours  ;  then  take  them  from  the  fire 
and  set  them  by  in  the  stewpan  to  cool ;  then  take  them  out  gently, 
being  careful  not  to  break  them,  and  all  the  fat;  then  cut  the  sau- 
sages into  slices  with  a  sharp  knife,  dish  them  neatly  and  serve  them 
up  cold. 

PORK  SAUSAGES. — Chop  fat  and  lean  pork  together,  season  to 
taste  with  sage,  pepper  and  salt,  and  you  may  add  2  or  3  berries  of 
allspice.  Half-fill  the  small  entrails  of  hogs  that  have  been  thor- 


I2O  CARVING. 

oughly  cleaned  and  soak  in  salt  water,  or  the  meat  can  be  kept  in  a 
very  small  pan  closely  covered,  and  so  rolled  and  dusted  with  very 
little  flour  before  it  is  fried.  Serve  on  stewed  red  cabbage,  poached 
eggs,  rice  or  mashed  potatoes  ;  put  in  a  form,  brown  with  salaman- 
der and  garnish  with  the  above.  They  must  be  pricked  with  a  fork 
before  they  are  cooked  or  they  will  burst. 

SAUSAGE  MEAT. — Take  the  fat  and  lean  of  the  shin  of  pork,  2 
parts  lean,  i  part  fat,  chop  or  grind  it  fine,  and  to  12  Ibs.  of  sausage 
meat  take  3  spoonfuls  allspice  ground,  a  spoonful  each  of  powdered 
sage,  thyme,  pepper  and  8  spoonfuls  of  salt.  Mix  it  all  well  together 
and  fill  the  skins  and  hang  them  in  a  dry  place.  The  skins  of  the 
entrails  are  turned  on  a  stick  and  well  scraped  and  washed  in  several 
waters  and  kept  in  salt  and  water  two  hours  before  filling. 

To  MAKE  SAUSAGES. — Forty  pounds  of  meat,  i  Ib.  of  salt,  3  oz. 
pepper,  1-2  pint  of  pulverized  sage  and  i  teacup  of  molasses  or  su- 
gar. Beat  or  grind  the  meat  and  mix  thoroughly. 

SAUSAGE  THAT  WILL  KEEP  GOOD  A  YEAR.— To  10  Ibs.  of  meat 
add  3  oz.  salt,  i  oz.  of  ground  pepper,  8  tablespoonfuls  of  sage 
leaves  (after  being  measured,  should  be  powdered),  and  i  spoonful 
powdered  ginger. 

CAKVTNG. 

This  is  very  plain  and  simple.  Practice  is  necessary  to  enable  the 
carver  to  hit  the  joints,  either  between  the  several  bones  on  any 
of  the  various  joints  of  poultry  or  game,  or  a  piece  of  mutton  or 
veal.  In  this  necessity  (practice)  the  only  real  difficulty  consists. 
Each  principle  must  be  considered  separately.  The  first  principle 
or  rule  may  be  laid  down  (with  one  exception)  with  regard  to  butch- 
er's meat ;  that  is,  always  cut  across  the  grain  or  fibre  of  the  meat, 
and  not  uniformly  with  it.  This  insures  a  short  fibre  and  avoids 
those  long  strings  in  the  mouth,  which  are  as  unpleasant  as  they  are 
difficult  to  masticate.  Therefore  the  first  glance  at  the  meat  will  de- 
termine the  carver  what  to  do.  The  one  exception  to  this  rule  is  this, 
that  the  under  sirloin  of  a  beef  should  always  be  cut  in  the  direction 
of  the  fibre,  while  the  upper  side  is  cut  across  the  grain,  but  this  is 
not  an  easy  task  to  perform,  however,  with  a  bad  knife,  as  the  meat 
is  apt  to  slip  from  the  bone.  The  2d  rule  to  be  observed  is  to  see 
that  the  fork  should  steady  the  joint  for  the  knife,  or  when  the  fork 
is  used  as  a  means  of  removing  the  leg  of  the  fowl  or  carving  a  hare, 
rabbit,  or  any  other  poultry  or  game  the  knife  must  take  the  office  of 
steadying  the  bird.  The  3d  rule  to  be  observed  is,  it  is  important  to 
cut  slices  either  of  game,  meat  or  poultry  (in  an  economical  point 
of  view)  down  to  the  line  so  as  to  leave  no  rough  or  ragged  portions 


CARVING.  121 

behind.  In  small,  quiet  parties  in  the  home  circle  the  carving  should 
be  done  by  the  mother  or  mistress  of  the  house,  but  in  parties  of 
any  size  or  pretensions  it  is  now  the  fashion  for  the  father  to  carve 
all  the  dishes  on  the  side  table,  but  this  requires  a  servant  equal  to 
the  task,  with  assistants  in  proportion,  and  also  a  dining  room  large 
enough  to  admit  of  a  side  board  devoted  solely  to  this  purpose. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR   CARVING  JOINTS. 

THE  SADDLE  OF  MUTTON  is  carved  in  three  different  ways,  ist, 
by  longitudinal  slices  along  each  side  of  the  bone,  by  which  the  lean 
and  fat  do  not  come  in  the  same  slice ;  2d,  by  transverse  slices,  tak- 
ing in  the  bone,  and  which,  consequently,  must  be  thick  and  clumsy  ; 
3d,  by  oblong  slices,  slightly  curved,  which  is  by  far  the  best  plan,  in 
which  the  knife  begins  at  the  bone  near  the  tail,  and  after  cutting  off 
the  outside  takes  a  series  of  parallel  slices  through  the  joint.  In 
carving  a  leg  of  mutton  there  can  be  two  modes,  the  choice  of  which 
must  depend  greatly  upon  the  number  to  be  served.  For  a  small 
number,  it  is  better  to  cut  the  leg  directly  across  the  middle  about 
half  way  between  first  and  second  joints,  but  this  admits  only  of  a 
few  good  slices,  while  the  other  portions  are  of  loose  and  of  coarse 
fibre.  But  by  turning  up  the  leg  and  cutting  it  exactly  on  the  plan 
of  the  haunch,  a  much  greater  proportion  of  nice  and  handsome 
slices  may  be  obtained,  and,  consequently,  a  larger  party  may  all  be 
equally  gratified. 

The  haunch  of  mutton  or  venison  is  carved  very  differently  by 
different  people.  The  common  plan  is  to  cut  through  the  flesh  be- 
tween the  leg  and  loin,  and  then  to  run  the  knife  from  this  to  the 
lower  end  of  the  loin,  cutting  parallel  slices  in  that  direction.  A 
much  better  plan,  however,  consists  of  making  these  cuts  in  one 
sweep,  carrying  the  knife  directly  from  the  outside  of  the  leg  to  the 
end  of  the  loin,  and  thus  getting  a  beautiful,  long  slice  of  lean  with 
the  fat  at  the  end.  There  is  also  a  delicious  mine  of  kidney  fat  in 
the  loin  of  mutton  under  the  flank,  which  is  often  too  high  in  veni- 
son, but  if  fresh  enough  it  is  even  richer  and  more  palatable  in  that 
meat  than  in  mutton. 

The  fore  quarter  of  lamb  must  be  commenced  by  separating  the 
shoulder  blade,  carrying  the  knife  all  round  it,  and  in  raising  it  with 
the  fork  ;  after  which  a  lemon  should  be  squeezed  into  the  cut  sur- 
face, and  a  little  pepper  and  salt  then  sprinkled  over  it ;  but  this  may 
be  much  better  done  in  the  kitchen  than  on  the  dining  table.  In 
order  to  carve  this  part  the  same  directions  will  apply  that  are  given 
in  the  last  paragraph  ;  and  for  the  remaining  portion  it  is  only  neces- 
sary to  separate  the  thin  part  called  the  brisket  from  the  ribs,  then 


122  CARVING. 

divide  each  into  transverse  sections.  One  rib  is  usually  served  to 
each  plate,  and  with  this  many  people  like  a  small  division  of  the 
brisket,  but  the  question  ought  always  to  be  asked  before  giving 
either  or  both. 

In  carving  a  shoulder  of  mutton  or  lamb  the  young  housekeeper 
should  first  ascertain  the  true  position  of  the  bone,  which  is  near  the 
edge  on  one  side.  Here  the  knife  must  not  be  inserted,  because  it 
would  be  stopped  at  once ;  but  by  trying  the  opposite  side  a  deep  cut 
may  be  made,  and  from  it  two  surface  slices  are  readily  obtained. 
When  this  part  is  exhausted  slices  may  be  procured  along  the  sides 
of  the  blade  bone,  and  again  on  the  outside  some  few  good  cuts  will 
be  met  with. 

The  chump  end  has  the  tail  attached  to  its  upper  side,  and  this 
must  be  taken  off  horizontally,  after  which  successive  slices  of 
meat  are  served  without  any  bone,  which  is  all  in  one  piece,  and, 
therefore,  not  capable  of  being  divided. 

Breast  of  veal  is  carved  in  the  same  way  as  the  best  of  the  fore 
quarter  of  lamb  after  the  shoulder  is  removed. 

A  loin  of  veal  is  usually  divided  into  two  portions,  the  chump  end 
and  the  kidney  end.  The  latter  merely  requires  to  be  divided  into 
portions  ab  right  angles  with  its  length,  every  other  one  of  which 
contains  a  bone,  and  the  intermediate  one  is  of  meat  only.  Most 
persons  like  some  of  the  fat  on  the  underside,  around  the  kidney, 
soread  on  bread  and  seasoned,  when  it  eais  like  marrow. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR   CARVING  FOWLS  AND  GAME. 

The  roast  or  boiled  chicken,  when  carved  hot,  is  generally  cut  into 
separate  joints,  consisting  of,  ist,  the  wings;  2d,  the  legs;  3d,  the 
merry-thought;  4th,  the  neck  bones  ;  5th,  the  breast;  6th, the  back 
and  its  side  bones ;  yth,  the  neck.  But,  excepting  for  family  use,  it 
is  seldom  customary  to  use  more  than  the  wings,  merry-thought  and 
breast,  or,  sometimes  in  addition,  the  legs.  The  plan  of  proceeding 
is  to  stick  the  fork  in  the  breast  firmly,  then  draw  the  knife  steadily 
along  the  line  between  the  leg  and  the  body,  continuing  it  forward 
until  it  has  separated  a  slice  of  the  breast  with  the  wing  bone.  If 
the  carver  is  dexterous,  he  hits  the  joint  at  once,  and  some  can  re- 
move a  wing  as  if  there  were  no  bone  at  all,  the  art  consisting  of 
guessing  at  the  exact  situation  of  the  joint.  As  soon  as  the  two 
wings  are  removed,  the  knife  is  carried  down  in  front  of  the  breast- 
bone, scooping  out  the  "merry  thought"  and  readily  separating  it 
from  its  bony  attachments.  If  the  legs  are  now  to  be  removed  the 
fork  is  taken  out  of  the  breast,  and  by  sticking  the  prongs  in  the  leg, 
with  the  knife  laid  against  the  flat  side,  they  are  readily  lifted  out  of 


CARVINO.  123 

the  sockets,  and  torn,  as  it  were,  from  the  body.  The  neck-bones 
are  now  twisted  off  with  the  fork,  after  which  the  breast  is  removed 
whole  by  cutting  through  the  ribs  with  the  knife,  and  then  a  separa- 
ration  of  the  backbone  in  the  middle  divides  the  remaining  part  of 
the  body  into  the  back  and  neck.  The  former  of  these  may  again 
have  its  side-bones  easily  removed  with  the  knife,  each  containing  a 
delicious  morsel  in  a  sort  of  spoon-shaped  cavity,  which  is  much 
prized  by  epicures. 

When  a  cold  roast  fowl  is  to  be  served  at  a  breakfast  or  supper 
party,  it  is  often  the  custom  to  carve  it  up  completely  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  then  put  the  joints  together  again,  keeping  them  in  their 
places  by  means  of  white  ribbon  tied  in  bows.  This  is  a  very  good 
expedient  in  such  a  case,  as  it  prevents  the  exhibition  of  bad  carving, 
and  facilitates  the  rapid  serving  of  the  guests,  which  is  essential  to 
success  in  such  matters. 

Geese  and  ducks  are  carved  very  much  on  the  same  principle  as 
the  turkey  and  fowl,  excepting  that  there  is  very  little  meat  on  the 
"merry  thought,"  which  is  also  more  difficult  to  cut  off.  In  the  goose 
the  best  parts  will  be  found  in  the  breast,  which  is,  however,  not  so 
meaty  as  that  of  the  turkey,  and  the  slices  are  much  more  shallow. 
Ducks  are  cut  in  slices  when  large,  or,  if  small,  are  disjointed  like 
fowls.  If  these  are  dressed  with  seasoning,  it  should  not  be  dis- 
tributed on  the  plates  without  ascertaining  that  it  is  agreeable  to  the 
tastes  of  the  party  to  be  served. 

The  grouse  is  usually  separated  at  once  into  the  breast  portion, 
the  back  and  the  legs,  which  may  readily  be  done  without  cutting, 
by  inserting  the  fork  in  the  former  and  raising  it  without  depressing 
the  latter.  When  this  is  done  the  knife  may  be  carried  longitudinally 
through  the  breast,  so  as  to  divide  it  into  two  equal  portions,  after 
which  the  back  and  legs  may  be  halved  in  the  same  way.  Some  peo- 
ple, however,  divide  the  grouse  differently,  by  cutting  off  a  leg  and 
a  wing  together,  and  leaving  a  small  breast*  so  as  to  make  either 
three  or  five  portions  out  of  the  bird. 

The  guinea  chicken  is  carved  in  the  same  way  as  the  grouse,  and 
so  is  the  quail. 

A  pheasant  may  be  sliced  on  the  breast  like  a  turkey,  after  which, 
if  the  party  requires  it,  the  plan  of  carving  for  the  roast  fowl  must 
be  adopted. 

The  woodcock  is  carved  like  the  grouse,  distributing  it  into  four, 
or  sometimes  two  portions  only,  and  giving  out  the  toast  in  the  same 
way,  equally  to  each  plate.  The  thigh  is  usually  considered  the  most 
delicate  part  of  the  bird. 

The  snipe  is  only  large  enough  to  divide  into  a  breast  and  back, 
with  the  legs.  The  toast  is  the  same  as  for  the  woodcock. 


124  OBSERVATIONS  ON  EGGS. 

Pigeons,  larks,  etc,,  are  divided  into  two  portions  as  the  quail  or 
snipe. 

The  hare  or  rabbit  is  rather  difficult  to  manage  nicely,  especially  if 
it  is  an  old  one.  When  the  carver  has  a  strong  wrist,  the  most  ad- 
vantageous way  is  to  carry  the  knife  along  on  each  side  of  the  back 
bone,  all  the  way  from  the  shoulder  to  the  tail,  and  leaving  a  useless 
piece  of  back  in  the  middle  about  one-half  an  inch  wide,  with  a  good 
fleshy  fillet  on  each  side,  and  the  legs  ready  for  subdivision.  After 
this  primary  division  the  side  slices  are  readily  served  in  separate 
portions  by  cutting  them  across.  In  default  of  this  strong-armed 
method,  some  carvers  cut  fillets  off  the  back  and  serve  them,  proceed- 
ing to  do  the  same  with  the  legs,  which  may  or  may  not  be  previ- 
ously raised  out  of  their  sockets.  A  third  plan  consists  of  removing 
the  legs  and  serving  them  in  two  portions  each,  then  dividing 
the  back  into  sections  of  about  two  or  three  inches  in  length,  and 
finally  removing  the  shoulders  and  serving  them  also.  If  this 
plan  is  preferred,  and  the  hare  is  to  be  carved  by  a  person  de- 
ficient in  strength  of  wrist,  the  prominent  part  of  the  backbone 
should  be  removed  by  the  cook  from  the  inside  before  roasting. 
A  portion  of  the  forcemeat  or  stuffing  must  of  course  accompany 
each  plate.  The  back  is  considered  the  best,  then  the  legs,  and 
lastly  the  shoulders,  which,  however,  some  people  prefer  to  any 
other  part. 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS  ON  EGGS. 

To  PRESERVE  EGGS. — Put  into  a  tub  a  basket  of  quick  lime 
mixed  with  i  pound  of  cream  of  tartar  and  2  Ibs  of  salt,  fill  up 
the  tub  with  water,  stirring  it  till  the  whole  seems  dissolved,  then 
procure  fresh  eggs  and  put  them  as  you  collect  them  into  the 
mixture,  in  which  they  will  swim,  and  be  preserved  for  every  pur- 
pose except  the  breakfast  table  for  10  or  12  months. 

SUBSTITUTE  FOR  EGGS. — One  ounce  each  of  carbonate  of  ammo- 
nia and  carbonate  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  water  and  kept 
closely  corked.  A  dessert  spoonful  of  the  fluid  is  sufficient  for  a 
pint  basin  of  plain  pudding  or  cake,  &c. 

EGGS. — The  most  delicious  are  those  of  the  plover. 

SEA  GULLS  EGGS. — Boiled  hard  and  eaten  with  salt,  pepper,  vin- 
egar and  mustard  are  considered  excellent. 

EGGS  A  LA  TRIPE. — Eight  eggs,  3-4  pint  of  good  spiced  gravy, 
i  dessert  spoonful  of  finely  minced  parsley ;  boil  the  eggs  hard, 
put  them  in  cold  water,  peel  them,  take  out  the  yolks  whole  and 
shred  the  whites,  make  3-4  pint  of  bechamel  sauce,  add  the  parsley, 
and  when  the  sauce  is  quite  hot  put  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  into  the 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  EGGS.  125 

middle  of  the  dish  and  the  shred  whites  around  them ;  pour  over 
the  sauce  and  garnish  with  leaves  of  puff  paste  or  fried  croutons. 
There  is  no  necessity  for  putting  the  eggs  into  the  sauce  pan  with 
the  bechamel  sauce.  The  sauce  being  quite  hot  will  warm  the  eggs 
sufficiently.  Ten  minutes  to  boil  the  eggs.  Sufficient  for  5  or  6  per- 
sons. Seasonable  at  all  times. 

EGGS  A  LA  MAITRE  D'HOTEL. — One-fourth  Ib.  of  fresh  butter,  i 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  i  cup  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  i  ta- 
blespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  the  juice  of  1-2  lemon,  6  eggs.  Put 
the  flour  and  1-2  the  butter  in  a  stew  pan,  stir  them  over  the  fire  un- 
til the  mixture  thickens,  pour  in  the  milk,  which  should  be  boiling, 
add  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt  and  simmer  the  whole  for  five 
minutes.  Put  the  remainder  of  the  butter  into  the  sauce  and  add 
the  minced  parsley,  then  boil  the  eggs  hard,  strip  off  the  shells,  cut 
the  eggs  into  quarters  and  put  them  on  a  dish,  bring  the  sauce  to  the 
boiling  point,  add  the  lemon  juice,  pour  over  the  eggs  and  serve  ;  5 
minutes  to  boil  the  sauce,  the  eggs  10  to  15  minutes.  Sufficient  for 
4  or  5  persons  ;  always  seasonable. 

A  PRETTY  DISH  OF  EGGS. — Break  some  eggs  into  a  tart  dish  with- 
out breaking  the  yolks,  or  laying  one  over  the  other,  drop  on  them 
some  warm  water  and  strew  lightly  some  crumbs  of  bread,  put  it  into 
the  oven  till  the  whites  are  set ;  serve  with  a  wreath  of  parsley  or 
nasturtium  flowers  around  the  dish. 

BOILED  EGGS. — To  boil  eggs  lightly  for  children  or  invalids,  3 
minutes ;  3  3-4  to  4  minutes  to  suit  the  generality  of  tastes ;  from 
6  to  7  minutes  to  boil  them  hard,  and  from  10  to  15  minutes 
for  salads.  Eggs  for  boiling  cannot  be  too  fresh  or  boiled  too 
soon  after  they  are  laid.  A  new-laid  egg  requires  longer  to  boil 
than  one  that  is  3  or  4  days  old.  The  eggs  should  be  put  into 
a  sauce  pan  of  boiling  water  very  gently  with  a  spoon,  letting  the 
spoon  touch  the  bottom  of  the  sauce  pan  before  it  is  withdrawn, 
that  the  egg  may  not  fall,  and  consequently  crack.  Should  the  eggs 
be  unusually  large,  allow  an  extra  1-2  minute.  Eggs  for  salads  should 
be  placed  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes  as  soon  as  taken 
up,  and  then  rolled  on  the  table  with  the  hand,  and  the  shell  will  peel 
off  nicely. 

To  BOIL  FRESH  EGGS — (Mrs.  H.'s  receipt,) — Tepid  water  4  min- 
utes will  set  the  whites,  5  minutes  will  set  the  yolks,  10  minutes  will 
boil  them  hard.  When  put  in  boiling  water  the  whites  harden  too 
fast  for  the  yolk  ;  tepid  water  is  the  best ;  or  place  the  eggs  in  cold 
water  ;  when  the  water  begins  to  bubble  the  whites  will  be  well  set. 

HARD  BOILED  EGGS  WITH  ONIONS. — Pick  3  good  sized  sound 
(white)  onions  (the  best);  cut  them  in  two,  then  lay  each  1-2  on  the 
board  and  cut  in  slices  1-8  inch  thick;  blanch  in  boiling  water  for 


126  OMELETS. 

5  minutes  and  drain  the  onion  on  a  cloth  ;  put  i  1-2  ounce  of  butter 
in  a  2  quart  stew  pan,  put  the  onion  in,  stir  over  the  fire  till  they  are 
brown,  add  i   ounce  of  flour,  1-2  pint  of  broth,  i  pinch  of  salt,  i 
small  pinch   of  pepper ;  stir  ever  a  slow  fire  for  20  minutes,  take 

6  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut   them  in    thin  shoes,  mix  them    with  the 
onion ;  taste  for  seasoning.  Garnish  with  nasturtium  leaves,  flowers 
and  buds. 

HARD  BOILED  EGGS  WITH  SORREL. — Put  6  eggs  in  boiling  water 
and  boil  for  10  minutes.  This  time  should  not  be  exceeded,  oth- 
erwise the  yolks  would  become  of  a  bad  color.  Put  the  eggs  in 
cold  water,  take  them  up  and  roll  them  on  the  table  when  cold, 
or  remove  the  shell  with  the  hand,  wash  them  clean  and  cut  each 
in  two  lengthwise;  put  i  1-2  pint  of  sorrel  prepared  for  garnish 
on  a  dish,  lay  the  pieces  of  eggs  on  it  and  serve. 

-EGGS. — After  boiling,  to  prevent  them  cooking  more  after  taking 
them  up,  break  the  small  end. 

OMELETS. 

BEEF  OMELETS. — (Mrs.  Adams.) — Four  pounds  of  round  beef 
uncooked  chopped  fine,  6  eggs  beaten  together,  5  or  6  soda  crack- 
ers rolled  fine,  a  little  butter,  suet,  pepper,  salt  and  sage ;  make  2 
loaves,  roll  in  cracker,  bake  i  hour,  slice  cold. 

OMELET,  VEAL — (Mrs.  F.  B.  B.) — Three  Ibs.  raw  veal  chopped 
fine,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  3  spoonfuls  of  salt,  i  of  pepper,  6  or  7 
crackers  grated  fine  ;  mix  well  together,  make  into  a  loaf  put  in  a 
stew  pan,  bake  with  butter  and  water  and  a  spoonful  of  cream. 

KIDNEY  OMELET — (A  favorite  French  dish.) — Six  eggs,  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  i  pinch  of  pepper,  2  sheep's  kidneys  or  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  minced  veal  kidney,  5  ounces  of  butter.  Skin  the  kidneys,  cut 
them  into  small  dice  and  toss  them  into  a  frying  pan  in  i  ounce  of 
butter  over  the  fire  for  2  or  3  minutes;  mix  the  ingredients  for  the 
omelet  as  for  plain  omelet,  and  when  the  eggs  are  well  whisked  stir 
in  the  pieces  of  kidney.  Make  the  butter  hot  in  the  frying  pan,  and 
when  it  bubbles  pour  in  the  omelet  and  fry  it  over  a  gentle  fire  from 
4  to  6  minutes ;  when  the  eggs  are  set  fold  the  edges  over,  so  that 
the  omelet  assumes  an  oval  form,  and  be  careful  that  it  is  not  too 
much  done ;  to  brown  the  top  hold  the  pan  before  the  fire  for  a  min- 
ute or  two,  or  use  a  salamander  until  the  desired  color  is  obtained  ; 
but  never  turn  the  omelet  in  the  pan ;  slip  it  carefully  on  to  a  dish 
very  hot,  or  what  is  a  much  safer  method,  put  a  dish  on  the  omelet 
and  turn  the  pan  quickly  over.  It  should  be  served  the  instant  it 
comes  from  the  fire;  4  to  5  minutes.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

OMELETS  WITH  CHEESE. — For  cheese  omelets  put  into  your  eggs 
a  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  California  cheese  and  proceed  as  above. 


OMELETS. 

MRS.  F.'s  OMELETS. — Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  i  cup  of  milk,  i 
cup  of  flour,  i  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder ;  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
3  eggs  to  a  froth. 

To  MAKE  A  FISH  OMELET. — There  are  two  ways  of  making  these, 
one  is  merely  to  flake  some  ready  cooked  fish  ;  salt  cod  is  very  suit- 
able; season  with  cayenne  pepper,  nutmeg  and  white  pepper;  mix 
it  with  6  beaten  eggs  and  one  dessert  spoonful  of  cream  or  milk,  fry 
it  on  one  side  only,  fold  it  and  serve.  Salt  shad  makes  a  nice  ome- 
let. 

OMELET  WITH  SHRIMPS. — Fry  an  omelet,  put  the  shrimps  (which 
have  been  cooked  and  buttered)  in  it  before  folding  it,  turn  the  ome- 
let in  a  dish,  pour  some  sauce  around  it  and  serve. 

EGG  AND  OYSTER  OMELET. — Beat  up  4  eggs  and  season  to  taste, 
chop  up  6  large  oysters,  make  a  batter  of  a  half  cupful  of  flour  and 
a  cup  of  milk.  Mix  and  stir  the  whole  well  together  and  fry  very 
slowly. 

OYSTER  OMELET. — Chop  i  1-2  dozen  oysters  very  fine  and  mix 
them  with  8  well  beaten  eggs  and  3  spoonfuls  of  flour  thoroughly. 
Fry  them  as  directed  for  tomato  omelet. 

FRIED  EGGS. — Four  eggs,  1-4  Ib.  of  lard,  butter  or  clarified 
drippings.  Place  a  delicately  clean  frying  pan  over  a  gentle  fire, 
put  in  the  fat  and  allow  it  to  come  to  the  boiling  point,  break 
the  eggs  into  cups  and  slip  them  into  the  boiling  fat  and  let  them 
remain  until  the  whites  are  delicately  set ;  and  whilst  they  are  fry- 
ing ladle  a  little  of  the  fat  over  them.  Take  them  up  with  a  knife, 
drain  them  for  a  minute  from  their  greasy  moisture,  trim  them 
neatly  and  serve  on  slices  of  nice  ham  or  bacon,  or  the  eggs  may 
be  placed  in  the  middle  of  the  dish  with  bacon  put  around  as  a 
garnish.  Sufficient  for  2  persons.  Cook  2  to  3  minutes ;  seasona- 
ble always. 

FRIED  EGGS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. — Put  3  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  in 
a  saute  pan,  tilt  it  up  on  the  corner  of  the  stove  to  collect  all  the  oil 
in  one  place,  and  hold  the  pan  over  a  sharp  fire  ;  when  the  oil  is 
hot  break  one  egg  in  it ;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  with  2 
onions,  gather  the  white  of  the  egg  over  the  yolk  so  as  to  form  a 
ball,  turn  it  over  and  drain  it  immediately ;  fry  separately  in  the  same 
way  as  many  eggs  as  may  be  required  ;  the  yolks  should  not  be  set. 
Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  put  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  2  gills  of 
tomato  sauce,  and  garnish  with  the  green  leaves  and  the  flowers  of 
nasturtium. 

EGGS  ON  THE  DISH. — Spread  i  ounce  of  butter  on  a  round  trim- 
med iron  dish,  sprinkle  with  1-2  pinch  of  salt  and  a  small  pinch  of 
pepper;  break  6  new  laid  eggs  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  over  another  half 
pinch  of  salt  and  2  small  pinches  of  pepper ;  put  on  the  stove  with 


I28  OMELETS. 

live  coals  on  the  glazing  cover;  cook  for  4  minutes;  when  the 
whites  are  set  the  eggs  are  done ;  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they 
have  been  cooked. 

ROASTED  EGGS. — Covered  in  hot  ashes  for  1-2  hour  are  excel- 
lent ;  they  should  be  wrapped  in  paper  and  dipped  in  water,  and 
then  covered  with  hot  ashes,  or  the  small  end  may  simply  be 
cracked  or  wet  in  cold  water,  then  put  over  them  a  layer  of  cold 
ashes,  and  then  covered  with  hot  ashes ;  eaten  with  pepper,  salt  and 
butter,  or  with  salt  only. 

THE  CURE'S  OMELET. — For  6  persons.  Take  the  roes  of  any  2 
fish,  bleach  them  by  putting  them  5  minutes  in  boiling  water 
slightly  salted ;  take  a  piece  of  mackerel  or  sea  bass  about  the 
size  of  a  hen's  egg,  to  which  add  a  shallot  already  chopped, hack 
up  together  the  roe  and  the  mackerel  or  bass,  so  as  to  mix  them 
well,  and  throw  the  whole  into  a  sauce  pan  with  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  very  good  fresh  butter  ;  whip  it  until  the  butter  is  melted.  This 
constitutes  the  specialty  of  the  omelet.  Take  a  second  piece  of 
butter,  as  much  as  you  like,  mix  it  with  parsley  and  herbs,  place  it  in 
a  long  shaped  dish  destined  to  receive  the  omelet,  squeeze  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  over  it  and  place  it  on  hot  embers;  beat  up  12  eggs  (the 
fresher  the  better),  throw  up  the  saute  of  roe  and  mackerel,  stirring 
it  so  as  to  mix  all  well  together,  then  make  your  omelet  in  the  usual 
manner,  endeavoring  to  turn  it  out  long,  thick  and  soft.  Spread  it 
carefully  on  the  dish  prepared  for  it  and  serve  at  once.  This  dish 
should  be  reserved  for  assemblies  when  connoisseurs  meet,  who  know 
how  to  eat  well. 

The  roe  and  mackerel  must  be  beaten  up  (saute)  without  allow- 
ing them  to  boil,  to  prevent  their  hardening,  which  would  prevent 
their  mixing  well  with  the  eggs.  Your  dish  must  be  hollowed 
toward  the  center  to  allow  the  gravy  to  concentrate,  that  it  may 
be  helped  with  a  spoon.  The  dish  ought  to  be  slightly  heated, 
otherwise  it  would  extract  the  heat  from  the  omelet.  As  soon  as 
the  spoon  enters  the  omelet  a  thick,  rich  juice  ought  to  flow,  pleas- 
ant to  the  eye  as  well  as  grateful  to  the  smell. 

OMELET  AU  RHEIMS  (French.) — Beat  well  4  eggs,  add  2  ounces 
sifted  sugar,  2  ozs.  currants  washed  and  dried  in  a  cloth  and  plumped 
in  brandy.  Fry  in  a  pan  with  boiling  lard,  serve  with  a  glass  of 
rum  poured  over  it ;  send  it  burning  hot  to  the  table. 

FRENCH  PROMISES  OR  OMELET.— Mix  together  1-2  pint  of  milk,  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  French  brandy,  i  egg  and  a  little  grated  ginger ; 
mix  it  with  flour  to  a  proper  thickness  for  pancakes  and  drop  into  a 
frying  pan  with  the  lard  very  hot. 

OMELET  WITH  HERBS.— Six  eggs  will  make  a  nice  omelet  for  2 
rsons  for  supper ;  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  salt  spoonful   of  pep- 
per; break  them  carefully  in  a  basin,  (one  tainted  egg  will  spoil  all 


OMELETS.  129 

the  rest;)  add  3-4  of  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  salt  spoonful  of 
pepper,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  1-2  a  one  of  fine  chop- 
ped onions  ;  beat  them  well,  add  i  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  a  nice 
clean  and  dry  frying  pan,  place  it  then  on  the  fire,  and  when  the  but- 
ter is  hot  pour  in  your  eggs,  which  keep  mixing  quick  with  a  spoon 
until  all  is  delicately  set,  then  let  it  slip  to  the  edge  of  the  pan  en 
mass  ;  lay  hold  of  the  handle,  raising  it  slantwise,  which  will  give  an 
elongated  form  to  the  omelet ;  turning  the  edges  let  it  set  a  minute, 
turn  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

OMELETS  WITH  MUSHROOMS. — Add  a  couple  of  middling  sized 
mushrooms  cut  very  thin  and  proceed  as  for  herb  omelet. 

OMELET  WITH  ASPARAGUS  PEAS. — Make  an  omelet  with  8  eggs 
very  slightly  salted,  garnish  it  before  folding  with  asparagus  peas 
mixed  with  German  sauce.  When  colored  turn  the  omelet  on  a 
dish,  poursorne  German  sauce  around  it  and  serve. 

GREEN  CORN  OMELET. — Grate  6  or  7  ears  of  boiled  green  corn, 
stir  in  with  it  3  well  beaten  eggs,  some  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  fry 
in  a  well  buttered  skillet  as  other  omelets.  When  done  set  in  a  stove 
to  brown  a  little. 

OMELET  WITH  PEPPER  GRASS  OR  NASTURTIUM. — Cut  the  pepper 
grass  1-2  inch  in  length,  plain  boil  them  in  salt  and  water  till  done, 
add  2  spoonfuls  of  your  egg,  and  proceed  as  for  herb  omelet.  The 
water  cress  can  be  used  instead  of  the  pepper  grass. 

TOMATO  OMELET.— Beat  up  6  eggs  and  mix  them  with  six  large 
tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  very  fine  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
Stir  well  together  and  fry  on  a  well  cleaned  griddle. 

SAN  FRANCISCO  OMELET. — Take  a  dozen  large  sound  apples  and 
boil  them  as  for  sauce,  stir  to  this  pulp  4  ounces  each  of  butter  and 
sugar  to  taste ;  when  cold  add  4  well  beaten  eggs,  then  butter  well  a 
deep  baking  dish,  both  sides  and  bottom,  thickly  strew  crumbs  of 
bread  so  as  to  stick  all  over  the  bottom,  put  in  the  apples  and  egg 
mixture  and  strew  crumbs  plentifully  over  the  top ;  when  baked  pour 
it  into  another  dish  and  grate  sugar  over  it. 

To  MAKE  A  PLAIN  SWEET  OMELET. — Six  eggs,  4  ounces  of  but- 
ter, i  ounce  of  sifted  sugar;  break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  omitting 
the  whites  of  3,  whisk  them  well,  adding  the  sugar  and  4  ounces  of 
the  butter,  which  should  be  broken  into  small  pieces  and  stir  all 
these  ingredients  well  together.  Make  the  remainder  of  the  butter 
quite  hot  in  a  small  frying  pan,  and  when  it  commences  to  bubble 
pour  in  the  eggs,  &c.  Keep  stirring  them  until  they  begin  to 
set,  then  turn  the  edges  of  the  omelet  over  to  make  it  an  oval 
shape  and  finish  cooking  it.  To  brown  the  top  hold  the  pan  be- 
fore the  fire  or  on  a  salver  under,  and  turn  it  very  carefully  on 
to  a  very  hot  dish ;  sprinkle  sifted  sugar  over  and  serve ;  cook 
from  4  to  5  minutes.  Always  seasonable. 


OMELETS. 

A  MATCHLESS  OMELET. — Break  10  eggs  in  a  basin,  beat  up 
with  them  i  spoonful  of  powdered  white  sugar  and  a  small  pinch 
of  salt;  butter  a  small  pancake  pan,  pour  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  egg,  letting  it  spread  in  the  pan  like  a  pancake;  fry  it  for  a 
few  minutes  and  fold  one  side  to  the  center,  put  a  little  apricot 
jam  on  the  centre,  fold  the  2  ends  to  the  middle  over  the  jam, 
and  roll  the  omelet  round.  Make  6  of  these  small  omelets,  put 
them  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  over  some  fine  sugar,  glaze  them  with 
a  hot  salamander  and  serve.  This  omelet  is  nothing  more  than  egg 
pancakes,  and  should  always  be  made  very  light  and  thin. 

OUR  FAVORITE  OMELET. — Scald  a  pint  of  milk,  into  which  stir  the 
yolks  of  5  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  each  of  sugar  and  flour,  and  lastly 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

To  MAKE  A  PLAIN  OMELET. — Six  eggs,  i  pinch  of  salt,  1-4  Ib.  of 
butter;  pepper.  Break  the  eggs  in  a  basin,  omitting  the  whites  of 
3  and  beat  them  all  up  with  the  salt  and  pepper  until  extremely 
light,  then  add  2  ounces  of  butter  broken  into  small  pieces,  and  stir 
this  into  the  mixture.  Put  the  2  ounces  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan, 
make  it  quite  hot,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  bubble,  whisk  the  eggs, 
&c..  very  briskly  for  a  minute  or  two  and  pour  them  into  the  pan  ; 
stir  the  omelet  with  a  spoon  one  way  until  the  mixture  thickens  and 
becomes  firm,  and  when  the  whole  is  set  fold  the  edges  over  so  that 
the  omelet  assumes  an  oval  form,  and  when  it  is  nicely  brown  on  one 
side  and  quite  firm  it  is  done.  To  take  off  the  roughness  on  the  up- 
per side  hold  the  pan  before  the  fire  for  a  minute  or  two  and  brown 
it  with  a  salamander  or  hot  shovel.  Serve  very  expeditiously  on  a 
very  hot  dish,  and  never  cook  it  until  it  is  just  wanted.  The  flavor 
of  this  omelet  may  be  very  much  enhanced  by  adding  minced  pars- 
ley, minced  onion  or  shallot,  or  grated  cheese,  allowing  i  tablespoon- 
ful of  the  former  and  1-2  the  quantity  of  the  latter  to  the  above  pro- 
portion of  eggs.  Shrimps  or  oysters  may  also  be  added  ;  the  latter 
should  be  scalded  in  their  liquor  and  then  bearded  and  cut  into 
small  pieces.  In  making  an  omelet  be  particularly  careful  that 
it  is  not  too  thin,  and  to  avoid  this  do  not  make  it  in  too  large  a  fry- 
ing pan,  as  the  mixture  would  then  spread  too  much  and  taste  of  the 
outside.  It  should  also  not  be  greasy,  burnt  or  too  much  done,  and 
should  be  cooked  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  the  whole  of  the  substance 
may  be  heated  without  drying  up  the  outsides.  Omelets  are  some- 
times served  with  gravy,  but  this  should  never  be  poured  over  them, 
but  served  in  a  tureen,  as  the  liquid  causes  the  omelet  to  become 
icavy  and  flat  instead  of  eating  light  and  soft.  In  making  the  gravy 
flavor  should  not  overpower  that  of  the  omelet,  and  should  be 
:ened  with  arrow  root  or  rice  flour.  Cook  with  6  eggs  in  a  fry- 
ing pan  1 8  to  20  inches  round  2  to  6  minutes.  Seasonable  always. 


SANDWICHES 


SANDWICHES. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES, — Slices  brown  bread  and  butter,  and  thin 
slices  of  cheese.  Cut  from  any  good,  rich  cheese,  some  slices  about 
1-2  an  inch  thick  and  place  them  between  some  slices  of  brown 
bread  and  butter,  like  sandwiches,  place  them  on  a  plate  in  the 
oven,  and  when  the  bread  is  toasted  serve  on  a  napkin  very  hot, 
quickly.  Ten  minutes  in  a  brisk  oven.  One  sandwich  to  each 
person.  Always  seasonable. 

SANDWICH  CREAM  CHEESE. — Put  a  small  quantity  of  very  fresh 
cream  cheese  in  a  basin  or  marble  mortar,  season  with  some  pep- 
per and  salt,  a  little  powdered  mustard  and  beat  well  together  till 
of  thickness  of  batter.  If  too  hard  add  a  little  butter  and  use  it  as 
butter  on  the  bread  with  slices  of  meat  between, 

CHICKEN  SANDWICHES. — Cut  some  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  as 
described  in  ham  sandwiches.  Sprinkle  over  some  salt  and  garnish 
the  sandwiches  with  fillets  of  cold  roast  chicken,  cut  very  thin,  press 
and  cut  the  sandwiches  as  ham  sandwiches.  Dish  them  on  a  nap- 
kin. 

SUMMER  SANDWICHES. — Make  the  sandwiches  in  the  ordinary  way 
by  buttering  both  sides  of  the  slices  of  bread  and  putting  thin  slices 
of  tongue,  roast  mutton,  or  beef,  or  boiled  ham,  poultry,  or  game, 
with  a  slight  seasoning  of  pepper,  mustard,  salt,  and  some  add 
shreded  lettuce,  cress,  or  any  of  the  salad  vegetables,  over  the  meat. 
Herring  is  also  very  nice  to  use ;  when  cooked,  then  press  the  sand- 
wiches and  cut  and  serve  them  as  cheese  sandwiches.  Lobsters  and 
other  fish  are  nice,  and  also  oysters  are  delicious. 

SANDWICH  DRESSING. — Chop  fine  and  mix  thoroughly  tongue, 
ham,  veal,  mutton  or  beef,  tender  and  well  cooked,  the  white 
meat  from  a  roasted  or  boiled  fowl  or  game,  some  nasturtium 
pods  or  flowers,  all  in  equal  portions,  and  also  hard-boiled  eggs 
chopped  to  mince,  some  piquant  vegetable  or  sauce,  a  little  cream 
and  butter,  and  some  mustard  beaten  fine.  Mix  all  thoroughly, 
then  spread  evenly  on  buttered  slices  of  bread  and  form  the 
sandwiches.  Fish  or  any  of'  the  Crustacea  may  be  used. 

VINEGAR  SANDWICHES — (Mrs.  Scott). — Grate  or  chop  very  fine, 
old  ham,  beat  an  egg  thoroughly  and  mix  with  some  ground 
mustard ;  let  boil  i  cup  of  wine  vinegar,  stir  in  the  egg  and  mus- 
tard and  mix  with  the  ham.  After  buttering  well  some  bread, 
spread  on  this  the  prepared  mixture. 

SANDWICH  SALAD. — Cover  the  bread  as  before,  and  have  ready 
some  mustard,  cress  and  water-cresses  well  washed  and  dried, 
put  into  a  bowl  with  mayonnaise  sauce.  When  ready  place  it 
neatly  between  the  bread. 


1^2  SANDWICHES. 

HERRING  TOAST  SANDWICH. — Choose  a  North  Carolina  herring 
for  this  purpose,  but  not  too  dry,  which  should  be  divided  by 
cutting  down  the  back;  lay  them  upon  a  dish  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  them.  Let  them  remain  for  five  minutes,  then  lay 
them  on  a  cloth  to  dry;  then  broil  them  slowly  for  four  or  five 
minutes  on  a  gridiron  until  done ;  then  have  ready  some  crisp  toast 
in  thin  slices,  butter  them  slightly,  take  out  the  bones  of  the 
fish,  lay  the  fleshy  parts  equally  upon  one  piece  of  toast  and 
cover  over  with  the  other;  then  put  one  upon  the  other  sand- 
wich. Serve  very  hot.  Dried  haddock  and  sardines  laid  over  cold 
may  be  served  in  the  same  way. 

SANDWICH  PASTRY. — Roll  out  two  pieces  of  paste  very  thin  and 
of  equal  size.  Spread  any  kind  of  jam  over  one  of  them  and  cover 
with  the  other.  Bake  it,  cut  it  in  slices  or  rounds  and  glaze  it  with 
French  mustard. 

HAM  SANDWICHES. — Remove  all  the  crust  from  a  loaf  of  bread 
baked  in  a  tin,  butter  and  cut  up  the  bread  into  slices  1-8  of  an  inch 
thick,  cover  one  slice  of  bread  very  evenly  with  thin  slices  of  boiled 
ham  laid  on  the  buttered  side  ;  spread  a  little  mustard  on  the  top  ; 
proceed  in  the  same  way  until  all  the  bread  is  used ;  press  the  slices 
tightly  together  and  cut  them  through  into  pieces  2  1-2  inches  by 
i  1-2.  Dish  the  sandwiches  on  a  napkin  and  serve. 

VEAL  AND  HAM  SANDWICHES. — Simmer  veal  and  ham  knuckle  a 
long  time  in  very  little  water  until  perfectly  tender,  then  take  out  the 
bones  and  gristles  and  chop  the  meat  together  to  a  pulp,  then  spread 
it  over  bread  as  you  would  butter,  and  add  mixed  mustard  over  it, 
then  butter  another  slice  of  bread  rather  lightly  and  put  over  the 
other  slice  of  bread,  as  for  common  sandwiches. 

BEEF  AH  MODE.— Take  the  tenderest  part  of  a  round  of  beef 
and  lard  it  with  bacon,  season  with  onions  and  parsley  cut  fine,  a 
little  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Put  it  on  the  fire  with  slices  of  fat  and 
lean  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  cover  it  with  the  same  ; 
put  in  chopped  carrots  and  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  let  it  boil 
gently  for  3  hours,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  stick  to  the  pan. 
Strain  the  gravy.  Skim  off  the  grease  and  serve  up  very  hot. — Con- 
tributed by  Mrs.  Mary  Upshur  Sturgis;  New  York  City. 

BEEF  LOAF.— 3  1-2  Ibs.  of  round  of  steak  chopped  very  fine,  i 
cup  of  crumbled  or  powdered  crackers,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  i  cup 
>!  new  milk,  i  tablespoonful  salt,  i  teaspoonful  pepper  and  i  spoon- 
lul  butter.  Mix  well,  then  put  into  a  deep  pudding  dish  in  the  form 
of  a  loaf.  Bake  31-2  hours. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN.-Boil  a  chicken  until  tender;  chop  fine,  seas- 
11  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter,  put  into  a  cloth  or  flat  bottomed 

eep  dish  or  bowl,  and  put  a  heavy  weight  on  it.  It  is  delicious  to 
cat  cola  for  lunch  or  tea. 


FOWLS.  133 

A  SIMPLE  WAY  TO  BAKE  HAM. — Wash  your  ham  over  night  with 
homemade  soap,  rubbing  it  with  a  cloth,  then  scrape  it  well  and  rinse 
it  well  in  several  waters  with  a  clean  rag,  wipe  it  dry  and  put  it  into 
clean  water  and  let  it  remain  untill  next  morning,  then  wipe  it  per- 
fectly dry.  Make  a  dough  of  flour  and  water,  roll  out  1-2  an  inch 
thick,  then  wrap  your  ham  closely  in  it,  so  the  juice  cannot  escape 
and  bake  until  done,  then  take  off  the  crust  and  serve  either  cold  or 
hot  for  lunch  or  tea.  Cut  in  thin  slices.  The  skin  may  be  taken  off 
or  not,  as  one  fancies. 

A  DRY  DEVIL. — Take  the  liver,  gizzard  and  drumsticks  of  a  turkey, 
and  score  them  ;  lay  on  made  mustard  very  thickly,  and  add  a  quan- 
tity of  cayenne  pepper  and  broil  them. 

FOWLS. 

REMEMBER  that  practice  makes  perfect,  and  that  "little  by  little  " 
we  accomplish  great  things. 

How  TO  PREPARE  FOWLS  FOR  COOKING. — Turkey,  for  instance: 
Pick  your  turkey  well,  pick  out  all  the  pin-feathers,  singe  it  over  a 
clear  blaze,  pull  out  all  the  shreds  of  fat,  bloody  bits,  lungs,  ^..leav- 
ing the  inside  perfectly  clean.  Be  careful  and  not  break  the  gall  in 
taking  out  the  liver — it  almost  spoils  your  stuffing,  as  no  amount  of 
washing  can  remove  it  from  the  inside  of  the  turkey.  Boil  the  heart, 
gizzard  and  liver  until  tender,  chop  very  fine  and  add  to  the  stuf- 
fing, which  should  be  made  of  stale  bread,  if  you  have  it,  if  not, 
crackers  pounded  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage  and  butter 
to  your  taste.  Mix  with  boiling  water,  being  very  careful  not  to  put 
too  much,  as  the  beauty  of  the  stuffing  is  to  be  dry.  When  light 
add  i  or  2  beaten  eggs.  Now  the  turkey  being  made  ready  one  day 
before,  is  stuffed,  rub  it  all  over  thoroughly  with  salt  under  the  wings 
and  thighs,  that  it  may  be  well  seasoned  when  cooked,  as  many  are  ex- 
ceedingly fond  of  the  brown,  crisp  skin  which  is  much  nicer  to  be  salted 
before  cooking.  Bind  the  wings  down  with  wrapping  cord,  tie  the 
legs  together  and  tie  them  to  the  body  of  the  bird.  It  is  a  good  plan 
to  cut  all  the  trussing  strings  1-2  hour  before  taking  the  turkey  from 
the  oven,  that  the  heat  may  reach  under  the  wings  and  thighs  ;  lay 
the  turkey  upon  a  cricket  in  the  dripping  pan,  never  upon  the  pan, 
as  the  oily  water  soaks  in  and  injures  the  flavor.  If  no  cricket  comes 
with  your  dripping  pan  you  can  have  one  made  of  hard  wood  strips 
1-2  inch  square,  two  i  foot  long  and  four  8  inches  long  for  cross 
pieces  nailed  together  an  inch  from  end  to  end,  to  be  used  in  cook- 
ing or  roasting  all  kinds  of  meats  ;  must  be  thoroughly  and  care- 
fully washed  every  time  and  dried,  or  you  can  have  a  tin  cricket  made. 

Put  no  water  into  the  dripping  pan  until  the  turkey  has  cooked 


134  FOWLS. 

long  enough  to  allow  the  fat  to  drip  down  and  brown  at  the  bottom 
of  the  pan.  By  this  means  you  obtain  the  much  prized  gravy  with 
less  trouble  than  the  usual  way  of  toasting  flour  for  the  thickening. 
After  you  have  put  water  into  the  pan  baste  the  fowl  frequently  by 
dipping  it  over  it.  Dust  flour  over  the  turkey  and  lay  on  all  the  fat 
that  has  been  taken  from  the  inside.  It  melts  and  runs  down,  and 
thus  keeps  the  skin  from  drying  too  much.  Put  a  turkey  weighing 
10  or  12  Ibs.  into  the  oven  at  8  o'clock  in  the  morning  if  you  dine  at 
12.  It  should  be  baked  for  4  hours.  In  winter  the  stuffing  should 
be  prepared  the  day  before,  as  the  mornings  are  short ;  when  you 
remove  the  turkey  to  the  platter  or  dish  remember  to  take  out  the 
shreds  used  to  sew  up  the  bird  before  roasting,  as  it  may  inconven- 
ience the  carver^by  getting  his  knife  entangled  in  it.  After  the  gravy 
is  thickened  and  cooked  pour  it  into  a  bowl  or  tureen  and  let  the  fat 
rise,  and  remove  every  spoonful  of  it.  Then  if  you  choose  you  can 
put  it  back  into  the  dripping  pan  and  add,  after  removing  the  fat,  a 
portion  of  butter,  and  then  pour  it  into  the  gravy  tureen  for  the 
table. 

To  BOIL  CHICKENS. — After  you  have  drawn  them,  lay  them  in 
skimmed  milk  for  2  hours  and  truss  them.  When  you  have  prop- 
erly  singed  and  dusted  them  with  flour  cover  them  closely  in  cold 
water  and  set  them  over  a  slow  fire.  Having  taken  off  the  scum 
and  boiled  them  slowly  5  or  6  minutes,  take  them  off  the  fire  and 
keep  them  closely  covered  for  1-2  hour  in  the  water,  which  will  do 
them  sufficiently  and  make  them  plump  and  white.  Before  you  dish 
them  set  them  on  the  fire  to  heat ;  then  drain  them  and  pour  over 
them  white  sauce,  which  you  have  just  made  ready  in  the  following 
manner:  Take  the  heads  of  th^  chickens  with  a  small  piece  of  scrag 
veal,  or  any  scraps  of  mutton  you  may  have  by  you,  and  put  them 
in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  few  black  pepper- 
corns, a  head  of  celery,  a  slice  of  the  end  of  a  lemon  and  a  bunch 
of  parsley  and  thyme.  Put  to  these  a  quart  of  water,  cover  it  closely 
and  let  it  boil  until  it  is  reduced  to  1-2  pint ;  then  strain  and  thicken 
it  with  a  cup  of  butter  mixed  with  flour  and  boil  5  or  6  minutes; 
then  put  in  2  spoonfuls  of  mushroom,  walnut  or  tomato  catsup  and 
mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  a  teacupful  of  cream  and  a  little  nut- 
meg grated.  Put  in  your  sauce  and  keep  shaking  over  the  fire  till 
it  is  near  boiling ;  then  pour  it  into  your  boat  and  serve  it  up  with 
your  chicken. 

BOILED  FOWL  with  oysters  is  excellent.  One  young  fowl,  3  dozen 
oysters,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  1-4  pint  of  cream.  Truss  a  young 
fowl  as  for  boiling,  fill  the  inside  with  oysters  which  have  been  bearded 
and  washed  in  their  own  liquor ;  secure  the  ends  of  the  fowl,  put  it 
into  a  jar  and  plunge  the  jar  into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water. 


FOWLS.  135 

Keep  it  boiling  i  1-2  hours,  or  rather  longer;  then  take  the  gravy 
that  has  flowed  from  the  oysters  and  fowl,  of  which  there  will  be  a 
good  quantity,  stir  in  the  cream  and  yolks  of  eggs  ;  add  a  few  oys- 
ters scalded  in  their  liquor;  let  the  sauce  get  quite  hot,  but  do  not 
allow  it  to  boil ;  pour  some  of  it  over  the  fowl  and  the  remainder 
send  to  the  table  in  a  tureen.  A  blade  of  pounded  mace  added  to 
the  sauce  with  the  cream  and  eggs  will  be  found  an  improvement. 

FOWLS  BOILED  WITH  RICE. — Stew  the  fowl  very  slowly  in  some 
clean  mutton  broth  well  skimmed,  and  season  with  onion,  mace, 
pepper  and  salt.  About  1-2  hour  before  it  is  ready,  put  in  1-4  Ib. 
of  rice  well  washed  and  soaked ;  simmer  until  done,  then  strain  it 
from  the  broth,  and  put  the  rice  in  a  sieve  before  the  fire.  Keep 
the  fowl  hot,  lay  il  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  the  rice  around  it, 
without  the  broth.  The  broth  will  be  very  nice  to  eat  as  such,  but 
the  less  liquor  the  fowl  is  done  with,  the  better.  Gravy,  or  parsley 
and  butter  for  sauce. 

To  BROIL  FOWLS. — Pick  and  truss  your  fowl  the  same  as  for  boil- 
ing; cut  it  open  on  the  back,  wipe  the  inside  clean  with  a  cloth, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt;  have  a  clear  fire  and  set  on  the  grid- 
iron at  a  good  distance  from  it ;  lay  the  chicken  on  with  the  inside 
toward  the  fire  (you  may  egg  it  and  strew  some  grated  bread  over  it) 
and  broil  it  till  it  is  of  a  fine  brown  color ;  take  care  the  fleshly  side 
is  not  burned.  Lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pickled  mushrooms  or  mush- 
room sauce  to  be  thrown  over  it,  or  parsley  and  butter,  or  melted 
butter  flavored  with  mushroom  catsup.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon 
and  the  liver  and  gizzard  slit  and  notched,  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  broiled  nicely  brown,  and  some  slices  of  lemon. 

To  BROIL  CHICKENS  WHOLE. — Split  your  chickens  down  the  back, 
or  underside  through  the  breast-bone,  season  them  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  lay  them  on  the  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire  and  at  a  great 
distance.  Let  the  inside  continue  next  to  the  fire  until  they  are 
nearly  half-done;  then  turn  them,  taking  care  that  the  fleshy  sides 
do  not  burn,  and  let  them  broil  until  they  are  of  a  fine  brown.  Have 
ready  good  gravy  sauce  with  some  mushrooms,  and  garnish  them 
with  lemon  and  the  livers  broiled,  the  gizzards  cut,  slashed  and 
broiled,  with  pepper  and  salt. 

SMALL  CHICKENS  may  be  broiled  in  the  same  way  as  well  as  ducks 
and  young  turkeys. 

BROILED  CHICKENS — Split  your  chickens  down  the  back  or  stom- 
ach. If  you  wish  them  for  breakfast,  let  them  remain  over  night  in 
salt  and  water.  Then  put  them  in  a  boiler  or  gridiron  over  bright 
coals,  free  from  smoke ;  put  a  cover  over  them  to  make  them  cook 
faster.  Baste  frequently  with  pepper,  salt,  butter  and  a  little  vinegar 
(if  liked).  In  the  meantime  boil  your  giblets  in  water,  chop  and. 


136  FOWLS. 

make  them  fine.  Make  a  gravy  of  some  of  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled,  some  butter  and  minced  parsley,  and  pour  it  over  the 
chicken,  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

To  FRY  CHICKENS. — Cut  your  chickens  into  quarters  or  every 
limb  separate,  and  rub  them  with  flour,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  or  dip 
them  in  a  thin  batter,  then  strew  on  them  some  crumbs  of  stale 
bread,  with  pepper  and  salt  and  chopped  parsley.  Fry  them  in  sweet 
bacon  grease,  butter  or  lard.  Bacon  grease  is  the  best,  and  when 
done,  put  them  into  your  dish  on  a  hot  stove  ;  then  pour  some  cream 
into  the  pan,  or  fresh  sweet  milk,  a  small  portion  thickened  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  poured  in  and  stirred  and  poured  over  the 
chicken,  and  serve  hot.  Or,  if  preferred,  grated  nutmeg,  lemon 
peel,  a  small  quantity  of  cayenne  pepper,  some  mushroom  pow- 
der, or  catsup,  and  a  little  lemon  juice  may  be  added  to  the 
gravy. 

FRIED  CHICKENS — (Mrs.  E.  A.  B.  Upshur,  Virginia). — When  the 
chickens  are  cleaned  and  cut  up,  dip  the  pieces  in  beaten  yolks  of 
eggs,  then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs  and  sprinkle  with  black  pep- 
per and  salt.  While  they  are  frying,  make  a  gravy  of  rich  cream 
seasoned  with  a  little  nutmeg  and  chopped  parsley  stewed  together. 
Pour  the  gravy  into  the  dish  and  lay  the  chicken  on  it. 

FRIED  CHICKEN  WITH  LEMON  PEEL. — The  remains  of  roasted 
fowl,  vinegar,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste,  4  minced  shallots, 
yolk  of  egg ;  to  every  teaspoonful  of  bread  crumbs  allow  i  blade  of 
pounded  mace,  1-2  teaspoonful  of  minced  lemon  peel,  2  pinches  of 
salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper.  Steep  the  pieces  of  fowl 
as  in  the  preceding  recipe ;  then  dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  egg  or  clar- 
ified butter,  sprinkle  over  bread  crumbs,  with  which  have  mixed 
salt,  mace,  cayenne  pepper-antf  lemon  p. el  in  the  above  proportions. 
Fry  of  a  light  brown  and  serve  with  or  without  gravy,  as  may  be  pre- 
ferred. Ten  minutes  to  fry  the  fowl. 

To  FRY  CHICKEN — (Georgia  Cook). — After  cutting  up  the  chick- 
ens, salt  and  pepper,  flour  and  fry  them  in  boiling  lard  or  oil;  when 
the  whole  are  fried,  drain  off  the  lard  and  add  a  good  spoonful  of 
sweet  butter,  a  little  flour  stirred  into  a  teacupful  of  sweet  cream, 
and  some  scalded  parsley  minced  fine  for  the  gravy. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. — Take  nice,  fat,  young  chickens  about  half-grown, 
cut  into  nice  pieces  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Roll  or  dredge 
thickly  with  flour  or  corn  meal,  and  stir  in  boiling  lard.  They  will 
be  more  tender  by  covering  while  cooking  (even  a  rather  hot  lid 
with  some  hot  embers  on  it),  When  a  nice  brown,  take  it  up,  and 
to  make  a  nice  gravy  add  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  to  the  lard, 
in  which  the  chicken  has  been  fried.  Stir  well  and  add  water  or 
sweet  milk  to  make  of  the  proper  consistency,  stirring  all  the  while. 
Season  to  taste. 


FOWLS.  137 

CHICKENS  FRIED  IN  BATTER. — Prepare  your  chickens  as  for  fry-  • 
ing,  then  make  a  batter  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,   i   teacup  of  milk, 
some  salt,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  thin  batter.     Then  dip  each 
piece  of  chicken  into  the  batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  the  essence  of 
sweet  fat  bacon. 

FRIED  FOWLS. — The  remains  of  cold  roast  fowls,  vinegar,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper  to  taste,  and  3  or  4  minced  shallots.  For  the  bat- 
ter, 1-2  Ib.  of  flour,  1-2  pint  of  hot  water,  2  oz.  of  butter,  and  the 
whites  of  2  eggs.  Cut  the  fowls  into  nice  joints,  steep  them  for  an 
hour  in  a  little  vinegar,  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  minced  shal- 
lots. Make  the  batter  by  mixing  the  flour  and  water  smoothly  together  ; 
melt  it  in  the  batter,  and  add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth, 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard  a  nice  brown.  Pile  them  high  in  the  dish  and 
garnish  with  fried  parsley  or  rolled  bacon.  When  approved  a  sauce 
or  gravy  may  be  served  with  them.  Ten  minutes  to  fry  the  fowl. 
Seasonable  at  any  time. 

FRIED  CHICKEN — GRANGER  METHOD. — Two  young  chickens  cut 
up  at  the  joints,  3  eggs  beaten  light,  i  cup  of  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  sweet  lard,  dripping  or  olive  oil  (commonly  known  as  sweet 
or  salad  oil).  After  preparing  the  chickens,  let  them  remain  1-4 
of  an  hour  in  salt  and  water,  wipe  the  pieces  dry,  pepper  and 
salt  them,  dip  them  into  the  well  beaten  eggs,  then  into  meal, 
flour  or  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  slowly  in  hot  lard,  dripping  or 
olive  oil.  Pile  on  a  hot  dish  and  lay  over  sprigs  or  parsley. 

CHICKEN  CUTLETS. — Two  chickens  seasoned  to  taste  with  salt, 
white  and  cayenne  pepper,  2  blades  of  pounded  mace,  egg  and 
bread  crumbs,  clarified  butter,  i  strip  of  lemon  rind,  2  carrots,  i 
onion,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup,  thickening  of  butter, 
fk  ur  and  i  egg.  Remove  the  breasfrand  leg  bones  of  the  chickens, 
cut  the  meat  into  neat  pieces  after  having  skinned  it,  and  season 
the  cutlets  with  pepper,  salt,  pounded  mace  and  cayenne.  Put 
the  bones,  trimmings,  etc.,  into  a  stewpan  with  i  pint  of  water, 
adding  carrots,  onions  and  lemon  peel  in  the  above  proportion. 
Stew  gently  for  i  1-2  hour  and  strain  the  gravy.  Thicken  it  with 
butter  and  flour,  add  the  catsup  and  i  egg  well  beaten  ;  stir  it 
over  the  fire  and  bring  it  to  the  simmering  point,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil.  In  the  meantime  egg  and  crumb  the  cutlets,  and  give 
them  a  few  dips  of  clarified  butter ;  fry  them  a  delicate  brown, 
occasionally  turning  them.  Arrange  them  pyramidically  on  the  dish 
and  pour  over  them  the  sauce.  Ten  minutes  to  fry  cutlets. 

THE  DUCK. — This  bird  belongs  to  the  order  called  swimmers  or 
natatores.  It  lives  mostly  (when  it  can)  in  water,  feeding  on  fish, 
worms  and  aquatic  plants,  and  makes  its  nest  in  a  moist  place.  Its 
flesh  is  savory,  not  being  as  gross  as  that  of  the  goose  and  easier  of 


138  FOWLS. 

digestion,  though  the  flesh  of  many  is  not  eatable,  being  extremely 
rank  and  oily.  It  requires  a  mixture  of  vegetable  and  animal  food, 
for  it  is  by  no  means  a  nice  feeder,  and  is  excessively  greedy.  Its 
proper  food  is  corn,  aquatic  insects  and  vegetables.  There  are  nearly 
a  hundred  different  species  of  ducks,  so  naturalists  say.  Light-col- 
ored ducks  are  always  of  a  milder  flavor  than  the  dark-colored  ones, 
and  consequently  are  more  valuable  for  table  use.  The  flesh  of 
ducks  and  all  fowls  fed  on  animal  food  will  be  firmer  than  that  fed 
on  vegetable  food,  but  when  fed  on  the  latter  it  is  much  whiter  and 
more  delicious.  Ducks  are  generally  served  with  apple  sauce. 

To  STEW  A  DUCK  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. — Parboil  a  duck,  then 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  gravy,  some  mint  and  3  or 
4  leaves  of  sage  cut  small.  Cover  the  pan  and  stew  for  1-2  an 
hour.  Thicken  the  gravy  and  put  in  1-2  pint  of  green  peas 
ready  boiled ;  dish  up  the  duck  and  peas  together.  Garnish  with 
boiled  mint  chopped  very  fine. 

STEWED  DCCKS. — Half-roast  a  duck;  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with 
a  pint  of  gravy,  a  few  leaves  of  sage  and  mint  cut  small,  pepper, 
salt  and  a  small  bit  of  onion  chopped  as  fine  as  possible.  Sim- 
mer 1-4  of  an  hour  and  skim  clean,  then  add  nearly  a  quart  of 
green  peas.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  nearly  1-2  an  hour.  Put 
in  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  flour,  and  give  it  one  boil ;  then 
serve  it  in  one  dish. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW. — Put  into  your  soup  kettle  a  nice,  fat,  young 
chicken  or  more,  or  a  hen  or  two  half-grown  chickens,  then  pour 
in  water  enough  to  cover  it,  salt  to  taste,  and  let  it  stew  until 
tender.  If  a  hen,  it  should  cook  longer  than  young  chickens ; 
cut  i  gallon  of  thoroughly  riye  tomatoes  and  season  them  with 
butter,  an  onion,  i  teacup  of  sugar,  2  or  3  slices  of  bacon,  pep- 
per and  salt,  as  you  would  to  stew,  put  them  in  the  kettle  with 
the  chicken,  and  i  hour  before  you  serve  it,  cut  the  grains  off 
12  large  ears  of  corn  and  add  to  it.  The  chicken  should  be 
cooked  so  tender  that  it  will  fall  to  pieces,  and  when  taking  it 
up  remove  the  bones.  Young  ducks,  guinea  chickens,  squabs, 
or  young  rabbits  make  a  fine  substitute  for  young  chickens. 
Young  turkeys  will  do. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW. — Two  squirrels  or  small  chickens,  i  quart  of 
peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes,  6  parboiled  potatoes  sliced,  6  or  7 
ears  of  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  i  cup  of  butter,  8  oz.  fat  pork, 
a  pepper-box  top  full  of  ground  black  pepper,  a  large  pinch  of  cay- 
enne pepper,  4  quarts  of  water,  i  tablespoonful  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls 
white  sugar,  and  i  onion  minced  small.  Let  the  water  boil,  then 
put  in  the  vegetables,  the  pork  or  bacon  cut  into  shreds,  potatoes, 
and  pepper.  The  squirrels  or  chicken  must  be  cut  into  joints  and. 


FOWLS.  139 

laid  in  cold  salt  and  water  to  draw  out  the  blood  Cover  closely  and 
stew  slowly  2  1-2  hours,  frequently  stirring  from  the  bottom.  Then 
add  the  tomatoes  and  the  sugar,  and  stew  another  1-2  hour  longer. 
Ten  minutes  before  you  take  it  up  from  the  fire  add  the  butter,  give 
it  a  final  boil,  taste  to  see  that  it  is  seasoned  to  your  liking  and  turn 
it  into  a  deep  dish  or  tureen.  It  should  be  eaten  from  soup  plates. 
This  stew  is  named  from  Brunswick  county,  Virginia,  where  the 
large  gray  squirrel  is  abundant,  as  in  all  parts  of  that  State. 

NOTE. — Chickens  or  fowls  are  improved  in  flavor  if,  before  cook- 
ing, they  be  rubbed  inside  and  outside  with  lemon  juice  or  a  weak 
solution  of  pure  fruit  vinegar  and  water.  This  will  also  improve  the 
flavor  of  pork,  though  the  lemon  juice  is  used  after  being  served  on 
the  table. 

ROASTED  DUCK. — A  particularly  tender  duck  should  be  procured 
for  roasting.  Stuff  the  duck  with  stuffing  prepared  as  follows:  Take 
4  onions  cut  in  slices,  with  24  sage  leaves,  blanch  both  for  5  min- 
utes, drain  and  chop  fine  ;  put  in  a  stewpan  with  i  spoonful  of  but- 
ter, 2  pinches  of  salt  and  2  small  pinches  of  pepper ;  simmer  gently 
for  10  minutes,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon;  add  a  handful  of 
bread  crumbs  and  stir  for  2  minutes  more  ;  the  stuffing  is  then  ready 
for  use  ;  truss  the  duck  and  put  it  to  roast  before  a  brisk  fire  for  16 
minutes.  Roasted  duck  should  be  sent  to  the  table  rather  under- 
done. Remove  the  string,  pour  the  gravy  under  the  duck  and  serve. 
If  not  stuffed,  a  garnish  of  water-cresses  is  sometimes  served  around 
roasted  ducks. 

To  BOIL  DUCKS. — Choose  a  fine,  fat  duck,  salt  it  2  days,  and  then 
boil  it  in  a  cloth.  Serve  with  onion  sauce,  but  melt  the  butter  with 
milk  instead  of  water. 

BOILED  GOOSE — (Mrs.  D.  H.  H.). — Dress  and  singe  your  goose, 
put  it  into  a  deep  dish,  cover  with  boiling  milk  and  leave  over  night. 
'Next  morning  wash  off  the  milk  and  put  the  fowl  into  cold  water  on 
the  fire  ;  when  boiling  hot,  take  it  off  and  wash  it  in  warm  water  and 
dry  with  a  cloth.  This  process  takes  out  the  oil.  Fill  the  body  with 
a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  butter  and 
'  chopped  onions,  if  relished,  and  a  little  sage.  Put  the  goose  into 
cold  water  and  boil  gently  until  tender.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made 
of  giblets,  liver,  with  pickles  or  sour  jellies. 

To  DRESS  A  GREEN  GOOSE. — A  goose,  3  oz.  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Geese  are  called  green  until  they  are  about  4  months 
old,  and  should  be  stuffed.  After  it  has  been  singed  and  trussed  as 
roasted  goose,  put  into  the  body  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt  and 
the  butter  to  moisten  it  inside.  Roast  in  a  stove  or  before  a  clear 
fire  for  3-4  of  an  hour,  froth  and  brown  it  nicely,  and  serve  with 
brown  gravy)  and  when  liked,  gooseberry  sauce.  This  dish  should 


T4O  FOWLS. 

be  garnished -with  water-cresses,  or  nasturtium  flowers,  leaves  and 
buds.  This  will  do  for  5  or  6  persons. 

A  GOOD  STUFFING  FOR  DUCK  OR  GOOSE. — Take  4  apples  peeled 
and  cored,  4  onions,  4  leaves  of  sage,  4  leaves  of  lemon  thyme  not 
broken  and  4  leaves  of  sweet  myrtle,  and  boil  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  sufficient  water  to  cover  them  ;  when  done,  pulp  them  through 
a  sieve,  removing  the  sage  and  thyme ;  then  add  sufficient  pulp  of 
mealy  potatoes  to  cause  it  to  be  sufficiently  dry  without  sucking  to 
the  hand  ;  add  pepper  and  salt  and  stuff  the  fowl. 

ROASTED  GOOSE — (Mrs.  E.'s  recipe). — Wash  it  thoroughly  with 
salt  and  water.  Prepare  some  Irish  potatoes  by  boiling  them  nicely 
and  mashing  smoothly  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard ;  chop 
2  onions  that  have  been  parboiled  and  add  them  to  the  potato  ; 
then  season  highly  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  powdered  sage. 
Roast  it  slowly  at  first,  and  baste  it  with  butter  or  lard ;  dredge  it 
with  flour  just  before  you  bake  it,  to  make  it  brown  nicely.  It 
will  answer  to  bake  dressed  in  the  same  way,  but  will  require  a  pint 
of  water  in  the  oven  or  stewpan.  When  done,  thicken  the  gravy 
with  i  spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  with  water  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Apple  jelly  is  nice  to  eat  with  it. 

BOILED  TURKEY—  (Forcemeat  as  for  Roasted  Turkey). — Hen  tur- 
keys are  preferable  for  boiling,  on  account  of  their  whiteness  and 
tenderness,  and  one  of  moderate  size  should  be  selected,  as  a  large 
one  is  not  so  suitable  for  this  mode  of  cooking.  They  should  not 
be  dressed  until  they  have  been  killed  2  or  3  days  or  longer,  it  the 
weather  is  cold,  or  they  will  neither  look  white  nor  will  they  be  tender. 
Pluck  the  bird,  carefully  draw  and  singe  it  with  a  piece  of  white 
paper.  Wash  it  inside  and  outside  and  wipe  it  thoroughly  dry  with 
a  cloth.  Cut  off  the  head  and  neck,  draw  the  strings  or  sinews  of 
the  thighs  and  cut  off  the  legs  at  the  first  joint ;  draw  the  legs  quite 
into  the  body,  fill  the  breast  with  forcemeat,  run  a  skewer  through 
the  wing  and  the  middle  joint  of  the  leg,  quite  into  the  leg  and  wing 
on  the  opposite  side  ;  break  the  breast-bone  and  make  the  bird 
look  as  round  and  as  compact  as  possible.  Then  put  the  turkey 
into  sufficient  hot  water  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  then 
carefully  remove  all  the  scum.  If  this  is  attended  to  there  is  no 
occasion  to  boil  the  bird  in  a  floured  cloth  ;  but  it  should  be  well 
covered  with  the  water.  Let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  about  i  1-2 
to  i  3-4  hours,  according  to  the  size,  and  serve  with  either  white 
celery,  oysters  or  mushroom  sauce,  or  parsley  and  butter,  a  little  of 
which  should  be  poured  over  the  turkey.  Boiled  ham,  bacon, tongue 
or  pickled  pork  should  always  accompany  this  dish  ;  and  when  oys- 
ter sauce  is  served,  the  turkey  should  be  stuffed  with  oyster  force- 
meat. A  small  turkey  i  1-2  and  a  large  one  i  3-4  hours.  Poultry 


GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  ETC.  1^1 

for  boiling  should  always  be  very  fat.  When  the  fowl  or  rabbit  is 
old,  rub  the  inside  with  soda  instead  of  salt  as  soon  as  it  is  killed  ; 
wash  it  off  before  cooking.  A  small  portion  of  soda  put  into  the  water 
will  make  meat  or  vegetables  more  tender,  better,  and  cook  in  a  much 
shorter  time.  The  flavor  is  greatly  improved  by  it. 

TURKEY  FOR  CHRISTMAS  DINNER — (Soyer). — Into  i  gallon  of 
water  put  i  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper  and  3  of  salt.  When  the 
water  boils,  put  on  your  turkey  stuffed  to  your  taste,  2  Ibs.  salt  ba- 
con cut  in  slices,  1-2  dozen  onions,  i  Ib.  of  celery  and  i  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs.  Boil  slowly  i  1-2  hours.  Mix  3  oz.  flour  with  2  oz. 
butter;  add  i  pint  of  liquor  from  the  pot  and  1-2  pint  of  milk,  take 
out  the  onions  and  celery,  chop  fine  and  add  to  the  mixture  and  boil 
for  20  minutes  ;  then  serve  up  your  turkey  and  you  have  a  delicious 
dish. 

TURKEY  STUFFED  WITH  CHESTNUTS. — Trim  free  from 
gristle  10  oz  of  fillet  of  veal  and  i  Ib.  of  fat  bacon,  season  with  i 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  sage,  parsley  and  celery.  While  chopping  mois- 
ten with  t  gill  of  broth ;  put  the  forcemeat  in  a  mortar  and  pound 
it  for  10  minutes ;  put  it  in  a  basin  and  add  40  chestnuts  previously 
slowly  roasted  and  peeled ;  draw  and  truss  the  turkey  as  in  the 
recipe  for  roasted  turkey.  When  cutting  off  the  neck  leave  as  much 
of  the  crop-skin  as  possible  ;  stuff  the  turkey  with  the  forcemeat 
and  chestnuts  ;  roast  it  before  an  even,  but  moderate  fire  for  i  hour 
and  40  minutes;  take  it  off  the  spit,  untie  and  put  it  on  a  dish. 
Free  the  gravy  from  all  grease,  pour  it  under  the  turkey  and  serve. 

ROASTED  TURKEY  WITH  OYSTERS. — Take  the  cooked  turkey,  cut 
up  very  fine,  then  lay  the  oysters  and  turkey  alternately,  then  put 
between  each  layer  a  seasoning  of  cream  and  butter,  pepper,  salt, 
a  little  nutmeg,  chopped  onion,  and  finish  on  the  top  with  bread 
crumbs  sprinkled  and  bits  of  butter.  Bake  it,  and  when  the  oysters 
are  done,  serve  it. 

GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  &c. 

To  ROAST  A  HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. — Choose  a  haunch  of  veni- 
son with  clear,  bright  and  thick  fat  and  the  cleft  of  the  hoof  smooth 
and  close ;  the  greater  the  quantity  of  fat  there  is  the  better  qual- 
ity will  the  meat  be,  as  many  people  object  to  venison  when  it 
has  been  kept  too  long.  You  can  ascertain  its  soundness  by  run- 
ning a  skewer  into  the  meat  near  the  bone ;  when  withdrawn  its 
sweetness  can  be  judged  of.  With  care  and  attention  it  will  keep 
two  weeks,  unless  the  weather  is  too  mild.  Keep  it  perfectly  dry 
by  wiping  it  with  clean  cloths  till  not  the  least  damp  remains;  sprin- 
kle over  ginger  and  pepper  (powdered)  as  a  preventive  against  the 


142  GAME,  EDIBLE   BIRDS,  ETC. 

fly.  When  required  for  use  wash  it  in  warm  water  and  dry  it  well 
with  a  cloth ;  butter  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  put  it  over  the  fat,  lay  a 
coarse  paste  about  1-2  inch  in  thickness  over  this  and  then  a  sheet 
or  two  of  strong  paper.  Tie  the  whole  firmly  on  to  the  haunch  with 
twine  and  put  the  joint  down  to  a  strong,  close  fire,  baste  the  veni- 
son immediately  to  prevent  the  paper  and  string  from  burning;  con- 
tinue this  operation  without  interruption  the  whole  of  the  time  it  is 
cooking — about  20  minutes  before  it  is  done  carefully  remove  the 
paste  and  paper,  dredge  the  joint  with  flour  and  baste  well  with  but- 
ter until  frothed  and  of  a  nice  pale  brown  color ;  garnish  the 
knuckle  bone  with  a  frill  of  white  paper  and  serve  with  a  strong, 
good  and  unflavored  gravy  in  a  tureen  and  currant  jelly,  or  melt  the 
jelly  with  a  little  port  wine,  and  serve  that  also  in  a  tureen.  As  the 
principal  object  in  roasting  venison  is  to  preserve  the  fat,  the  above 
is  the  best  mode  of  doing  so  when  expense  is  not  objected  to,  but 
in  ordinary  cases  the  paste  may  be  dispensed  with,  and  a  double 
paper  placed  over  the  roast  instead.  It  will  not  require  so  long  a 
cooking  without  the  paste.  Do  not  omit  to  send  very  hot  plates  to 
the  table,  as  the  vennon  so  soon  freezes  ;  to  be  thoroughly  injoyed 
by  epicures,  it  should  be  eaten  on  hot  water  plates.  The  neck 
should  be  roasted  in  the  same  manner.  To  cook  with  the  paste  re- 
quires from  4  to  5  hours,  haunch  of  doe  venison  from  3  1-4  to  3  3-4 
hours. 

To  BAKE  FRESH  VENISON  HAM. — Cut  incisions  lengthwise  on 
the  top  if  the  ham  is  not  very  fat,  insert  narrow  strips  of  i.am  or 
pickled  pork  into  these,  press  them  below  the  surface  and  between 
the  shank  bone  and  meat,  run  a  sharp,  narrow  bladed  knife  and 
insert  the  stuffing,  tie  it  around  well  to  prevent  the  stuffing  from 
falling  out.  Spread  over  the  surface  of  the  meat  a  thick  coating 
of  butter,  make  a  thin  crust  of  coarse  flour  and  water  and  lay 
over  it;  bake  in  a  pan,  pour  in  a  cupful  of  water;  when  1-2  done 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  take  off  the  crust,  bake  it  well  and 
dredge  with  flour  and  bake  till  ot  a  light  brown  ;  carve  as  directed 
and  serve  with  the  accompaniments  of  roasted  haunch  of  veni- 
son. 

To  BOIL  A  HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. — Let  it  lie  in  salt,  then  boil 
it  in  a  floured  cloth,  allowing  1-4  hour  for  every  Ib.  For  sauce 
boil  in  milk  and  water  and  some  cauliflowers  pulled  into  sprigs  with 
white  cabbage  and  turnips  cut  into  dice  and  beet  root  sliced.  First 
lay  a  sprig  of 'cauliflower  and  some  of  the  turnips  mashed  with  cream 
and  butter ;  next  the  cabbage  that  has  been  beaten  in  a  sauce  pan 
with  a  little  butter  and  salt,  then  cauliflower,  and  so  on  until  the  dish 
is  full.  Intermix  the  beet  here  and  there  to  variagate  the  appear- 
ance ;  serve  with  melted  butter.  A  neck  of  venison  may  be  done  in  the 


GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  ETC  143 

same  manner,  and  both  will  eat  well  the  next  day;  hashed  with  gravy 
and  tomato  or  mushroom  sauce  or  catsup. 

To  FRY  VENISON. — If  it  is  the  neck  or  breast  of  venison,  bone 
it,  but  if  it  be  a  shoulder  cut  off  the  meat  in  slices,  make  some  gravy 
with  the  bones,  then  fry  the  meat  brown ;  take  it  up  and  keep  it  hot 
before  the  fire,  put  butter  and  flour  in  the  pan  and  keep  the  whole 
stirring  till  thick  and  brown,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn.  If 
approved,  stir  in  1-2  pound  of  fine  sugar,  powdered,  and  put  in  the 
gravy  produced  by  the  bones  with  some  port  wine ;  give  the  whole 
the  consistency  of  cream,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  to  these  and 
turn  the  venison  in  it,  put  it  in  a  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

To  DUESS  PLOVERS. — Three  plovers,  butter,  flour,  toast  bread. 
In  cleaning  and  trussing,  choose  those  that  are  hard  at  the  vent,  as 
that  shows  their  fatness.  There  are  three  sorts  of  plover  -  the  gray, 
the  green  and  the  lopwing.  They  will  keep  good  for  some  time,  but 
if  very  stale  the  feet  will  become  dry.  Plovers  are  scarcely  fit  for 
anything  but  toasting;  they  are,  however,  sometimes  stewed  or  made 
into  a  ragout,  but  this  mode  of  cooking  is  not  to  be  recommended. 
Pluck  off  the  feathers,  wipe  the  outside  of  the  bird  with  a  damp 
cloth,  and  do  not  draw  them  ;  truss  with  the  head  under  the  wings, 
put  them  down  to  a  clear  fire  and  lay  slices  of  moistened  toast  in 
the  dripping  pan  to  catch  the  trail ;  keep  them  well  basted,  dredge 
them  lightly  with  flour  a  few  minutes  before  they  are  done,  let  them 
be  nicely  basted  with  a  feather,  dish  them  in  toasts,  over  which  the 
trail  should  be  equally  spread,  pour  around  the  toast  a  little  good 
gravy  and  send  some  to  table  in  a  tureen.  Cook  from  10  to  16  min- 
utes. Sufficient  for  2  persons. 

To  DRESS  THE  PTARMIGAN  OR  WHITE  GROUSE. — Two  or  3  birds ; 
butter,  flour,  fried  bread  crumbs  ;  the  ptarmigan  or  white  grouse, 
when  young  and  tender  are  exceedingly  fine  eating,  and  should 
be  kept  as  long  as  possible  to  be  good.  Draw,  pluck  and  truss  them 
before  a  brisk  fire,  flour  and  butter  them  nicely  and  serve  on  but- 
tered toasts  with  a  tureen  of  brown  gravy.  Bread  sauce,  when  liked, 
may  be  sent  to  the  table  with  them,  and  fried  bread  crumbs  substi- 
tuted for  the  bread  toast.  Sufficient  for  i  dish.  Cook  1-2  hour. 

IMITATION  of  BONED  TURKEY. — Three  and  one-half  Ibs.  of  veal 
chopped  fine,  1-4  Ib.  of  fat  salt  pork,  two  eggs  beaten,  a  little  salt, 
nutmeg  and  parsley;  mix  and  make  in  a  roll;  bake  3  hours  in  a 
moderate  oven.  To  be  eaten  cold;  a  nice  lunch. 

To  SEMI-STEW  BIRDS. —  Prepare  them  as  for  broiling,  heat  the 
gridiron  and  lay  the  birds  flat  upon  it,  the  inside  first;  when  1-2 
done  and  of  a  bright  color  (but  they  must  not  be  scorched)  take 
them  from  the  gridiron  and  lay  them  in  a  stew  pan,  pour  over  a 
tumbler  of  hot  water,  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  rub  a  teaspoon^ 


144  GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  ETC. 

ful  of  flour  into  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  put  this  in  slices  over 
the  birds,  cover  the  dish  and  set  it  on  the  stove.  When  tender  serve 
with  tomato  sauce. 

N.  B.  In  roasting  or  baking  game  of  any  kind  put  them  all  in 
a  paper  bag  greased  inside  and  out  with  leaf  drippings,  butter  or 
lard,  lay  the  bag  in  the  stove  pan  without  water  and  cook  till  done, 
then  take  them  out  and  brown  them  a  little.  The  paper  keeps  the 
flavor  from  escaping  while  cooking.  The  game  can  be  stuffed  be- 
fore cooking. 

To  ROAST  A  FAWN. — A  fawn  must  not  be  kept  like  venison,  but 
dressed  soon  after  it  is  killed.  If  it  is  not  too  large  it  is  generally 
trussed  for  roasting  like  a  hare,  filled  with  hare  stuffing,  rubbed  over 
with  butter,  larded  with  fat  bacon  and  covered  with  buttered  paper. 
It  must  be  spitted  like  a  hare  and  basted  continually.  It  will  take 
i  1-2  hour  to  roast  it,  but  when  1-2  done  the  paper  and  larding  must 
be  removed,  the  fawn  dredged  with  flour  and  a  little  salt,  and  basted 
till  quUe  ready.  It  may  be  served  with  good  gravy  and  currant 
jelly,  or  still  better,  with  venison  sauce.  A  young  fawn  is  delicious 
dressed  in  this  way  whole,  but  when  older  must  be  roasted  in  quar- 
ters and  cut  like  lamb.  The  hind  quarter  is  the  choice  part,  and 
ought  to  be  roasted  with  a  covering  of  bacon  and  paper  like  the 
whole  fawn,  and  served  with  the  same  sauce. 

To  HASH  FAWN. — Put  into  a  stew  pan  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  1-2 
dozen  mushrooms,  a  shallot  and  a  spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
pepper  and  salt;  simmer  1-2  hour,  strain  the  gravy,  have  the  meat 
cut  in  neat  slices  and  put  in.  Keep  the  stew  pan  at  the  side  of  the 
fire  that  it  may  not  boil,  add  a  glass  of  port  wine,  a  teaspobnful  of 
lemon  juice  and  the  same  of  sugar.  Shake  all  together  for  5  min- 
utes, then  serve. 

Though  the  flesh  of  the  goat  is  eaten  in  this  country,  that  of  the  kid 
is  more  delicate,  and  when  carefully  prepared  and  cooked,  resembles 
game,  and  is  a  useful  resource  for  making  out  a  dinner.  If  very 
young  it  is  best  to  dress  it  whole,  and  it  should  be  soaked  for  twelve 
hours  in  a  marinade  of  a  pint  of  vinegar,  a  pint  of  cold  water,  1-2 
pint  of  port  wine,  3  ounces  of  salt  and  i  ounce  of  brown  sugar. 
When  taken  out  it  should  be  hung  up  for  a  day  or  two,  washing  sev- 
eral times  with  the  marinade. 

To  ROAST  KID. — After  the  kid  has  been  marinaded  as  directed, 
either  whole  or  in  joints,  it  must  be  rubbed  over  with  butter,  if 
whole,  stuffed  like  a  hare  and  roasted  in  nice  buttered  paper  (a 
light  brown  paper),  as  directed  for  the  fawn,  about  the  same  time. 
Any  sauce  for  hare  or  venison  may  be  served  with  it. 

To  HASH  KID. — Make  a  good  gravy  as  for  fawn  and  slice  the 
kid  into  it,  add  port  wine,  lemon,  and  sugar,  and  serve  with  French 
beans  or  spinach. 


GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  ETC.  145 

KID  A  LA  POULETTE. — Instead  of  the  marinade  the  kid  must 
be  prepared  by  soaking  in  milk  and  water,  and  in  which  a  spoon- 
ful of  salt  has  been  dissolved  for  6  hours.  It  must  be  larded  and 
1-2  roasted,  and  when  cold  cut  a  neat  piece  from  the  joint,  leaving 
the  rest  to  hash.  Put  the  pieces  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  pint  of  good 
veal  stock,  2  ounces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  shallot,  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  6  mushrooms,  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
salt,  a  blade  of  mace  pounded.  Stew  all  gently  for  i  hour,  then 
take  out  the  meat,  strain  the  sauce,  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
beaten  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  pour  over  the  kid ;  line 
with  sliced  lemon. 

ROAST  TEAL. — Teal,  butter,  a  little  flour.  Choose  fat,  plump  birds, 
after  the  frost  has  set  in,  as  they  are  then  better  flavored,  truss  them 
before  a  brisk  fire  and  keep  them  well  basted.  Serve  with  brown 
gravy  or  onion  gravy,  water  cresses  and  a  cut  of  lemon.  The  re- 
mains of  the  teal  make  excellent  hash.  Roast  from  10  to  15  min- 
utes ;  2  sufficient  for  a  dish, 

ROAST  WIDGEON. — Widgeons,  a  little  flour  and  butter.  These 
are  trussed  in  the  same  manner  as  wild  duck,  but  not  kept  so  long 
before  they  are  dressed ;  put  them  down  to  a  brisk  fire,  flour  and 
baste  them  continually  with  butter,  and  when  browned  and  nicely 
frothed  send  them  to  the  table  hot  and  quickly;  serve  with  brown 
gravy  or  orange  gravy  and  a  cut  lemon,  1-4  hour,  if  liked  well  done, 
20  minutes ;  2  sufficient  for  a  dish. 

ROAST  LARKS. — Larks,  eggs  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fresh  butter. 
These  birds  are  esteemed  a  great  delicacy  and  may  either  be  toasted 
or  broiled.  Pick  and  clean  them  well,  when  trussed  brush  them  over 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  roast  before 
a  quick  fire  ;  baste  them  continually  with  fresh  butter  and  keep 
sprinkling  with  bread  crumbs  until  the  birds  are  well  covered.  Dish 
them  in  bread  crumbs  fried  in  butter  and  garnish  the  dish  with  slices 
of  lemon.  Broiled  larks  are  excellent;  they  should  be  cooked  over 
a  clear  fire,  and  would  take  about  10  or  15  minutes. 

IF  YOUNG  PRAIRIE  CHICKENS. — Dress,  singe  them,  cut  them  up, 
dredge  with  corn  meal  or  flour  and  fry  them  in  nice  sweet  lard  a  nice 
brown  ;  prepare  a  cream  gravy  if  you  like,  and  pour  over  them  in 
the  dish ;  serve  hot.  They  are  delicious. 

IF  the  chicken  is  old  take  some  slices  of  sweet  fat  bacon  or  pork, 
a  large  pinch  of  powdered  cloves,  2  or  3  onions  cut  up,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  stew  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bones,  then  thicken 
with  new  milk  or  cream  and  a  very  little  flour,  and  you  have  almost 
a  royal  dish. 

PRAIRIE  CHICKEN  STEAK. — Cut  in  slices  from  the  chicken,  then 
broil;  butter,  pepper  and  salt  them  and  serve  on  hot  plates  as  lecf- 


146  GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  ETC. 

steak.     They  can  also  be  fried  in  drippings,  butter,  lard,  dipped  in 
egg  and  crumbs  or  in  batter. 

N.  B.  A  stew  can  be  made  of  the  remainder  of  the  chicken. 

ROASTED  TURKEY  A  LA  CHIPOLATA. — Prepare  your  turkey  for 
stuffing,  then  make  a  stuffing  of  veal  and  chestnuts,  or  pork  sausage 
meat  may  be  used ;  then  prepare  the  chestnuts — taking  4  dozen 
and  splitting  them  across — fry  them  in  a  little  butter  or  sweet  oil  in  a 
frying-pan,  when  the  shells  will  come  off  without  trouble  ;  then  boil 
them  in  good  broth  or  soup  until  soft  enough  to  mash ;  save  2  dozen 
to  put  in  the  sauce,  and  the  others  to  put  in  the  filling,  then  stuff  the 
fowl  and  lay  in  the  baking-pan,  then  cover  it  with  thin  slices  of  ba- 
con, secured  by  tying  a  string  over  to  keep  the  bacon  slices  in  place  ; 
then  put  it  into  an  oiled  paper  bag.  When  nearly  done,  remove 
from  the  paper  bag  and  put  it  back  and  roast  a  nice  brown.  Dish 
and  garnish  to  suit  the  taste. 

WASHING  FOWLS  OF  ANY  KIND. — After  dressing  them  wash  them 
in  a  little  soda  water.  Others  say  it  takes  away  the  juices  of  the 
flesh  and  spoils  the  flavor. 

Tun  KEY  GRAVY — (A  Good  Housekeeper). — Heart,  liver,  gizzard 
and  neck  cut  up  thin  and  dredged  thickly  with  flour.  Put  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  little  salt,  a  few  pepper  corns,  allspice  and  a  little  mace,  out- 
side skin — not  the  husk — of  3  onions,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
large  walnut ;  stew  or  fry  until  well  browned  ;  add  boiling  water  till 
of  proper  thickness,  and  let  it  cook  all  the  morning  on  the  corner  of 
the  stove.  After  removing  the  turkey  from  the  dripping-pan  and 
pouring  off  any  grease,  put  the  prepared  gravy  into  the  dripping-pan 
and  make  as  any  other  gravy.  r 

^  To  ROAST  A  BONED  TURKEY. — Lay  it  in  a  deep  baking-tin  and 
cover  it  with  slices  of  fat  salt  pork ;  put  it  into  a  moderately  hot 
oven  and  let  it  roast  very  slowly  for  3  hours,  with  the  door  partly 
open.  If  the  oven  be  too  hot,  or  the  pork  not  fat  enough  to 
keep  the  bird  moist,  it  will  brown.  It  is  much  better  to  stew  it,  as 
in  the  preceding  recipe,  or  roast  in  a  paper  bag  greased  with  fresh 
drippings.  When  done,  remove  the  bag,  and  set  to  brown  a  few 
minutes,  and  serve. 

NOTE. — A  glaze  or  jelly  for  covering  or  garnishing  the  roasted 
turkey  may  be  made  by  putting  the  bones  of  the  bird  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  all  the  herbs  and  vegetables  mentioned  for  stewed  turkey, 
and  adding  i  quart  of  water.  .This,  when  gently  stewed  for  2 
hours,  strained  and  set  aside  to  cool,  will  give  at  least  i  pint  of 
strong  jelly.  If  the  jelly  be  not  solid  when  cold,  it  may  be  re- 
duced in  quantity  by  boiling  it  1-2  an  hour  longer  over  a  brisk 
fire,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn,  and  stirring  frequently. 

To  STEW  TURKEY. — Take  a  fine  turkey  and  bone  it,  and  put  into 


GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  ETC.  147 

the  carcas  a  stuffing  composed  of  large  livers,  mushrooms,  smoked 
bacon,  all  cut  in  small  dice  and  mingled  with  salt,  fine  spices,  chopped 
parsley  and  oniony.  Sew  the  turkey  up,  and  take  care  to  shape  it 
nicely  ;  then  put  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  on  the  breast  and  wrap  it  in  a 
cloth.  Stew  it  in  a  pot,  but  not  too  large  a  one,  with  good 
broth,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  parsley,  thyme,  and  celery.  When 
it  is  done,  strain  the  liquor  in  which  the  turkey  was  stewed,  into  a 
stew  pan,  after  having  taken  off  the  pot ;  reduce  it  to  sauce, 
adding  a  spoonful  of  caulis  or  oysters.  Then  unwrap  your  turkey, 
take  off  the  bacon,  dry  away  the  grease  and  serve  with  sauce. 

WOODCOCK  THE  SPORTSMAN'S  FASHION — English  style. — Roast  2 
of  the  birds  rather  underdone,  catching  their  trails  upon  a  large  piece 
of  toasted  bread ;  when  done  cut  each  bird  into  quarters,  which 
place  in  a  stew  pan  with  the  remainder  of  the  trail  cut  small,  a  little 
pepper,  salt,  a  glass  of  sherry,  a  little  chopped  shallot,  the  juice  of 
1-2  a  lemon,  1-2  a  gill  of  broth;  let  the  whole  simmer  very  gently 
for  a  few  minutes,  dress  the  pieces  of  woodcock  rather  high  upon 
the  toast,  pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

PARTRIDGES  STEWED  WITH  CABBAGE. — Have  your  birds  nicely 
trussed  and  cleaned,  then  run  5  or  6  slices  of  fat  bacon  about  1-2  as 
thick  as  your  hand  and  1-2  as  long,  through  the  breast,  so  as  not 
to  stick  out,  then  roast  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  then  divide  a  cab- 
bage head  in  4  pieces  after  washing  it  well  in  salt  and  water,  then 
boil  it  in  simple  water,  drain  it  dry,  season  highly  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, then  some  chopped  onion,  1-2  pound  of  fat  and  lean  bacon  and 
put  them  in  a  stew  pan,  then  cover  the  whole  with  some  good  butter 
and  let  simmer  3-4  of  an  hour  till  nearly  dry  before  putting  in  the 
partridges,  keeping  the  whole  hot,  but  not  boiling,  for  about  i  hour ; 
have  ready  2  nicely  broiled  pork  sausages,  dress  the  cabbage,  which 
should  be  quite  dry,  upon  your  dish  in  a  mound  with  the  birds  at  the 
top,  but  half  buried  in  the  mound,  cut  the  bacon  in  halves,  placing 
a  piece  at  each  end  with  a  sausage  at  each  side,  pour  a  cupful  of 
game  sauce  around  and  serve.  It  is  very  nice  served  with  good  plain 
gravy. 

PARTRIDGES  TO  BROIL. — Divide  them  in  two,  dip  them  in  melted 
butter  in- which  a  mite  of  corn  starch  has  been  stirred,  cover  thickly 
with  bread  crumbs  ;  boil  1-4  hour.     Young  rabbits,  hares  and  birds  . 
can  be  broiled  in  the  same  way. 

To  BOIL  GROUSE. — These  must  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water ; 
1-2  or  3-4  hour  will  be  sufficient  to  cook  them.  For  sauce  stew  some 
heads  of  celery  cut  very  fine  and  thickened  with  cream  and  a  small 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  and  seasoned  with  salt  to  your  palate. 
When  your  bird  is  done  pour  the  sauce  over  it  and  garnish  the  dish 
with  thin  slices  of  lemon. 


148  GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  ETC- 

ANOTHER  WAY. — Truss  the  grouse  the  same  way  as  turkey,  stuff 
the  breast  with  veal  stuffing,  put  it  in  hot  water  with  2  spoonfuls  of 
chopped  and  boiled  mutton  suet;  serve  celery  or  oyster  sauce  over 
it.  Snipes  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

To  BOIL  QUAILS. — Doves,  larks,  prairie  hens,  pigeons  and  rob- 
bins  are  all  cooked  alike,  after  they  are  picked,  singed,  the  insides 
taken  out  as  clean  as  possible,  and  then  washed  in  several  waters. 
Having  cut  off  the  pinions  turn  their  legs  under  their  wings,  let  them 
boil  slowly  1-4  hour  and  they  will  be  sufficiently  done.  Dish  them 
up  and  pour  over  them  good  melted  butter,  lay  around  the  dish  a 
little  brocoli  and  serve  them  up  with  melted  butter  and  parsley  in 
boats.  They  should  be  broiled  by  themselves,  and  may  be  eaten 
with  bacon,  greens,  spinach  or  asparagus. 

To  COOK  PIGKONS— (Petersburg,  Va,) — Mince  cold  veal  and  the 
fat  of  bacon,  mix  them  with  the  crumbs  of  bread  soaked  in  milk  and 
well  seasoned,  with  this  forcemeat  stuff  the  pigeons  nicely,  having 
them  fresh  and  well  cleaned;  bake  slowly  till  done, basting  frequently 
with  butter.  Serve  hot ;  garnished  with  parsley. 

N.  B.  Wild  pigeons  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

NOTE — Some  housekeepers  never  use  onions  and  sage  together  to 
season  stuffing. 

To  BROIL  PIGEONS  — When  the  pigeons  are  trussed  as  for  boiling 
flatten  them  with  a  cleaver,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  skin  of  the 
backs  or  breasts;  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  bit  of 
butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  water,  and  tie  them  close  at  both  ends; 
so  that  when  they  are  brought  to  the  table  they  bring  their  sauce  with 
them.  Egg  and  dredge  them  with  grated  bread  or  cracker  dust ;  if 
you  please  mix  with  spices,  parsley  and  thyme,  then  lay  them  on  the 
gridiron  and  turn  them  frequently ;  if  your  fire  is  not  very  clear  lay 
them  on  a  sheet  of  paper  well  buttered  to  keep  them  from  getting 
smoked.  They  are  much  better  broiled  whole  ;  when  they  are  done 
pour  over  them  either  stewed  or  pickled  mushrooms,  tomato,  or 
walnut  catsup,  or  a  squeeze  of  lemon.  Garnish  with  fried  bread 
crumbs  or  sippets  of  bread. 

ROAST  PIG  RONS. — Pigeons,  2  spoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Pigeons,  to  be  good,  should  be  eaten  fresh  ;  if  kept  a  lit- 
tle the  flavor  goes  off.  They  should  be  drawn  as  soon  as  killed. 
Cut  off  the  heads  and  necks,  truss  the  wings  over  the  backs  and 
cut  off  the  toes  at  the  first  joint  previous  to  trussing ;  they  should 
be  carefully  cleaned,  as  no  bird  requires  so  much  washing;  wipe 
the  birds  very  dry,  season  them  inside  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
put  about  3-4  of  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  into  the  body  of  each. 
This  makes  them  moist.  Put  them  down  to  a  bright  fire  and 
baste  them  well  the  whole  time  they  are  cooking.  In  20  or  30 


GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  ETC.  149 

minutes  they  will  be  done  ;  garnish  with  fried  parsley ;  bread  sauce 
and  gravy,  the  same  as  for  roast  fowl,  are  an  exceedingly  nice  accom- 
paniment to  roast  pigeon,  and  also  egg  sauce  ;  serve  in  a  tureen  of 
parsley  and  butter. 

To  STEW  PIGEONS. — See  that  they  are  quite  fresh  and  care- 
fully cleaned,  drawn  and  washed;  then  soak  them  1-2  hour.  In 
the  meantime  cut  a  hard  white  cabbage  in  slices  into  water,  drain  it, 
and  then  boil  it  in  milk  and  water;  drain  it  again,  and  lay  some  of 
it  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew  pan,  put  the  pigeons  upon  it,  but  first 
season  them  well  with  pepper  and  salt  and  cover  them  with  the  re- 
mainder of  the  cabbage,  add  a  little  broth  and  stew  gently  till  the 
pigeons  are  tender,  then  put  among  them  2  or  3  spoonfuls  of  cream 
and  a  piece  of  butter  and  flour  for  thickening.  After  a  boil  or  two 
serve  the  birds  in  the  middle  of  the  dish  and  the  cabbage  placed 
around  them. 

A  GOOD  WAY  TO  CATCH  WOOD  PIGEONS. — Take  corn  or  horse 
beans  with  3  or  4  holes  punched  in  them  with  an  iron  bodkin,  then 
boil  the  same  in  gin ;  many  will  be  so  drunk  they  cannot  fly  up ;  oth- 
ers will  perch  in  the  adjacent  trees;  watch  them,  and  you  will  see 
them  tumble  down. 

WOODCOCKS  A  LA  LUCULLUS. — Roast  the  birds  plainly,  catching 
the  trails  upon  slices  of  toast,  upon  which,  when  done,  dress 
them  on  a  dish  ;  have  ready  a  little  fresh  melted  butter,  with  which 
mix  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  a  little  cream ;  pour  this  over  the  wood- 
cocks, sprinkle  lightly  with  bread  crumbs,  salamander  of  a  light 
brown  color  and  serve  with  a  little  gravy  around. 

ROASTED  OR  BAKKD  RABBIT. — Have  the  same  stuffing  as  for  veal 
and  turkey.  Skin,  empty,  and  thoroughly  wash  the  rabbit,  wipe  it 
dry,  line  the  inside  with  the  forcemeat  as  for  turkey,  &c.,  mince  and 
add  the  liver,  sew  the  stuffing  inside,  skewer  back  the  head  be- 
tween the  shoulders,  cut  off  the  fore  joints  of  the  shoulders  and  legs, 
bring  them  close  to  the  body  and  secure  them  by  means  of  a  skewer. 
Wrap  the  rabbit  in  buttered  paper  and  put  down  to  a  clear  fire, 
keep  it  well  basted,  and  a  few  minutes  before  it  is  done  remove  the 
paper"  flour  and  froth  it,  and  let  it  acquire  a  nice  brown  color,  take 
out  the  skewers  and  serve  with  brown  gravy  and  red  currant  jelly. 
To  bake  the  rabbit  proceed  in  the  manner  as  above  in  a  good 
oven.  It  will  take  the  same  time  as  roasting,  young  rabbit  35  min- 
utes, a  large  one  3-4  hour.  Sufficient  for  4  persons. 

ROAST  HARK. — Choose  a  young  hare,  which  may  be  known  by 
its  smooth  and  sharp  claws  and  by  the  cleft  in  the  lip  not  being  much 
spread.  To  be  eaten  in  perfection  it  must  hang  for  some  time,  and 
if  properly  taken  care  of  it  may  be  kept  for  several  days.  It  is  bet- 
ter to  hang  without  being  paunched;  but  should  it  be  previously 


I5O  GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  ETC. 

emptied  wipe  the  inside  every  day  and  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  pep- 
per and  ginger  to  prevent  the  musty  taste,  which  long  keeping  in  the 
damp  occasions,  and  which  also  affects  the  stuffing.  After  it  is  skin- 
ned wash  it  well  and  soak  for  an  hour  in  warm  water  to  draw  out 
the  blood  ;  if  old,  let  it  lie  in  vinegar  for  a  short  time,  but  wash  it 
well  afterwards  in  several  waters.  Make  a  stuffing  as  for  veal  and 
.turkey.  Wipe  the  hare  dry,  fill  it  up  with  the  stuffing  and  sew  it  up, 
bring  the  hind  and  fore  legs  close  to  the  body,  towards  the  head,  run 
a  skewer  through  each,  fix  the  head  between  the  shoulders  by  means 
of  another  skewer,  and  be  careful  to  leave  the  ears  on,  put  a  string 
round  the  body  from  skewer  to  skewer  and  tie  it  above  the  back. 
The  hare  should  be  kept  at  a  distance  from  the  fire  when  it  is  first 
laid  down,  or  the  outside  will  become  dry  and  hard  before  the  inside 
is  done.  Baste  it  well  with  milk  for  a  short  time  and  afterwards  with 
butter  ;  and  particular  attention  must  be  paid  to  basting,  so  as  to  pre- 
serve the  meat  on  the  back  juicy  and  nutritive.  When  it  is  almost 
roasted  enough  flour  the  hare  and  baste  well  with  butter ;  when  nicely 
frothed  dish  it,  remove  the  skewers  and  send  it  to  table  with  a  little 
gravy  in  the  dish  and  a  tureen  of  the  same.  Red  currant  jelly  must 
not  be  forgotten,  as  this  is  an  indispensable  accompaniment  to  roast 
hare.  For  economy  good  beef  drippings  may  be  substituted  for  the 
milk  and  butter  to  baste  with  but  the  basting,  as  we  have  before 
stated,  must  be  continued  without  intermission.  If  the  liver  is  good 
it  may  be  parboiled,  minced  and  mixed  with  the  stuffing,  but  should 
not  be  used  unless  quite  fresh.  A  middling-sized  hare  cooks  i  1-2 
hours  ;  a  large  hare  from  i  1-2  to  2  hours. 

N.  B.  In  roasting  large  and  small  birds  put  them  in  a  buttered 
paper  bag,  all  together  in  a  stew  pan  and  roast  them  ;  the  buttered 
paper  prevents  the  steam  from  escaping,  and  they  are  much  better 
by  it  when  done.  Take  them  out,  season  and  serve  to  taste. 

FRENCH  RABBIT,  How  TO  COOK— (Ma'm  V.) — Take  a  rabbit. and 
skin  it,  commencing  at  the  head ;  with  a  damp  cloth  wipe  the  rabbit 
clean,  do  not  wash  it ;  then  simmer  in  a  pan  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  then  cut  the  rabbit  up  and  lay  in  the  pan  containing 
the  hot  butter,  adding  some  salt  and  a  pinch  of  beaten  pepper,  a  few 
whole  cloves,  allspice  and  peppers,  some  thyme  and  parsley,  all  to 
taste.  When  ready  to  serve,  after  laying  the  rabbit  on  a  hot  dish, 
stir  by  degrees  a  little  flour  into  the  gravy  to  thicken  it,  adding  1-2  pint 
of  claret  wine.  * 

BOILED  RABBIT. — For  boiling  choose  rabbits  with  smooth  and 
sharp  claws,  as  that  denotes  they  are  young.  Should  these  be  blunt 
and  rugged,  the  ears  long  and  rough,  the  animal  is  old.  After  empty- 
ing and  skinning  it  wash  it  well  in  cold  water  and  let  it  soak  for 
about  1-4  hour  in  warm  water,  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Bring  the 


GAME,  EDIBLE  BIRDS,  ETC.  15! 

head  around  to  the  side  and  fasten  it  there  by  means  of  a  skewer 
run  through  that  and  the  body.  Put  the  rabbit  into  sufficient  hot 
water  to  cover  it,  let  it  boil  gently  till  tender,  which  will  be  in  from 
1-2  to  3-4  hour,  according  to  its  size  and  age.  Dish  it  and  smother 
it  either  with  onions,  liver  or  mushrooms,  sauce  or  parsley  and  but- 
ter. The  former  is,  however,  generally  preferred  to  any  of  the  last- 
named  sauces.  When  liver  sauce  is  preferred  the  liver  should  be 
boiled  for  a  few  minutes  and  minced  finely  or  rubbed  through  a  sieve 
before  it  is  added  to  the  sauce.  A  young  rabbit  or  hare  should  cook 
1-2  hour, a  larger  one  3-4  hour,  an  old  one  i  hour  or  longer;  squir- 
rels may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

STEWED  RABBIT — (Pacific  Slope.) — Skin  the  rabbit,  then  wash  and 
soak  thoroughly,  then  with  a  clean  cloth  wipe  it  as  dry  as  possible, 
cut  it  up  and  roll  the  pieces  in  flour  and  slightly  brown  it  in  1-4  Ib. 
of  sweet  butter,  adding  some  lean  bits  of  ham,  then  gradually  add  3 
cups  of  gravy  and  stew  the  meat  very  gently  for  nearly  2  hours,  or 
less  time  ;  add  salt  to  taste  and  half  the  rind  of  lemon  cut  very  thin. 
Mix  an  even  tablespoonful  of  rice  flour  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mush- 
room catsup,  a  large  pinch  of  powdered  mace  and  a  small  pinch  of 
cayenne.  Stir  well,  pour  in  the  stew,  cook  10  minutes,  then  serve 
hot. 

To  BROIL  RABBIT  OR  HARE. — Season  them  first  and  broil  them 
on  a  gridiron,  rub  them  with  cold  butter  and  serve  them  hot. 
The  other  pieces  warmed  with  gravy  and  a  little  stuffing  may  be 
sent  up  separately  ;  or  the  hare  may  be  split  open,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  broiled  on  the  griddle,  the  body  slit  and 
gashed  neatly  across  and  lengthwise  and  basted  with  cider  vine- 
gar; butter,  pepper  and  salt  frequently. 

SQUIRRKL  STEW. — After  the  squirrels  are  properly  cleaned  and 
lain  in  salt  and  water  for  a  time,  then  cut  up  and  boil  2  hours 
for  young  squirrels  and  3  hours  for  old  ones  in  just  enough  water 
to  cover  them.  Never  season  them  till  done  tender,  and  then  you 
will  add  salt  and  cream  or  nice  fresh  butter  to  your  judgment. 
Make  a  thickening  of  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  stirred  in  1-2  cup 
of  milk  or  water,  then  add  this  while  the  pot  is  boiling,  making 
a  nice  gravy.  Pour  the  whole  over  slices  of  bread  or  split  butter 
crackers,  or  biscuit,  and  serve. 

NOTE  — As  the  strong  flavor  comes  from  the  fat  this  should  be  cut 
away  before  cooking. 

FRIED  SQUIRREL — (Mrs.  Baringer.) — Cut  them  up  and  parboil  in 
water  with  a  little  salt,  if  old.  If  young,  this  is  not  needed;  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt  and  dip  each  piece  in  beaten  yolk  of  egg 
and  grated  cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  of  a  nice  brown. 

BROILED  SQUIRREL. — Parboil  the  squirrel  whole  for  a  few  minutes, 


152  FRICASSEES. 

grease  the  broiler  or  gridiron,  put  it  on  and  turn  it  often  over  a.clear 
fire,  season  with  drawn  or  melted  butter,  peeper,  salt,  and  moisten 
the  squirrels  with  it. 

SQUIRREL  PIE. — Parboil  the  squirrel  in  salt  and  water,  line  a  bak- 
ing dish  with  nice  pastry,  cut  the  squirrels  in  pieces  in  the  pan  with 
a  slice  of  bacon  and  2  hard  boiled  eggs ;  fill  the  pan  with  cream 
and  season  with  black  pepper  and  cover  it  with  a  crust  and  bake. 

FRICASSEES. 

To  FRICASSEE  CHICKENS. — Boil  1-4  hour  in  a  small  quantity  of 
water ;  let  them  cool ;  cut  up  and  put  to  simmer  in  a  little  gravy 
made  of  the  liquor  they  are  boiled  in  and  a  bit  of  veal  or  mutton, 
onion,  mace  and  lemon  peel,  some  white  pepper,  parsley  and  thyme. 
When  quite  tender,  keep  them  hot  while  you  thicken  the  sauce  in 
the  following  manner:  Strain  it  off  and  put  it  back  into  the  sauce- 
pan with  a  little  salt,  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  and  a  bit  of  flour  and 
butter;  give  it  one  boil,  and  when  you  are  going  to  serve  it,  beat  up 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  add  1-2  pint  of  cream,  and  stir  them  over  the 
fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  It  is  often  done  without  the  egg.  The 
gravy  may  be  made  (without  any  other  meat)  of  the  necks,  feet, 
small  wing-bones,  gizzards  and  livers,  which  are  called  the  trimmings 
of  the  fowls. 

To  FRICASSEE  CHICKENS  WHITE. — Cut  up  each  chicken  into  eight 
pieces,  as  in  carving  them  at  table.  Wash,  dry,  flatten  and  season 
them  with  mixed  spices,  using  only  white  pepper.  Dip  the  pieces 
in  egg,  and  brown  them  lightly  in  fresh  butter.  Take  a  pint  of 
clear  veal  or  mutton  gravy,  and  put  to  it  a  roll  of  lemon  peel,  2 
onions,  3  blades  of  mace,  a  little  parsley  and  lemon  thyme.  Stew 
the  browned  chicken  in  this  very  slowly  for  1-2  hour,  keeping 
the  stew-pan  covered.  Strain  the  sauce  and  thicken  it  with  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour,  salt  and  a  rasp  of  nutmeg.  When  ready  to 
be  served,  add  1-4  pint  of  cream,  the  yolk  of  i  or  2  eggs  well 
beaten.  Do  not  have  it  too  hot,  but  mix  this  very  carefully,  lest 
it  curdle,  and  be  sure  it  does  not  boil.  A  glass  of  white  wine 
and  a  squeeze  of  lemon  may  be  put  to  the  fricassee. 

FRICASSEE  OF  CHICKEN  A  LA  ST.  LAMBERT. — Prepare  and  cut  two 
chickens  as  directed  for  fricassee  of  chicken.  Steep  the  pieces  in 
cold  water  for  1-2  hour;  drain  and  put  them  in  a  sauce-pan  with 
some  gravy,  i  carrot,  i  onion  and  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  drain 
the  pieces  of  chicken  when  they  are  done.  Strain  the  gravy 
or  broth  through  a  broth-napkin;  reduce  it  to  1-2;  add  i  1-2 
pint  of  nice  sauce  to  it,  and  reduce  both  together  until  the  sauce 
coats  the  spoon.  Thicken  it  with  egg  and  strain  through  a  tam- 


FRICASSEES.  153 

my-cloth  into  a  pan.  Wipe  and  trim  the  pieces  of  chicken,  put 
them  in  a  stew-pan,  pour  in  enough  sauce  to  cover  them,  and 
warm  them  without  boiling ;  dress  them  on  a  dish,  pour  over  some 
of  the  sauce  out  of  the  pan,  garnish  round  with  small  portions  of 
carrots  cut  to  an  olive  shape,  butter,  onions  previously  boiled  in  white 
broth,  and  asparagus,  peas,  and  serve  with  the  remainder  of  the 
sauce  in  a  boat. 

To  FRICASSEE  CHICKENS. — Prepare  your  chickens  as  for  frying, 
then  let  them  remain  i  hour  in  cold  water  in  a  cool  place;  change 
the  water,  then  add  some  salt  and  let  them  remain  in  this  i  hour. 
Put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  some 
salt,  pepper  and  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk.  Mix  a  large  spoonful  of 
butter  and  flour  together,  and  add  to  the  stew  or  fricassee,  and  cook 
all  together  for  i  hour.  Before  serving,  add  some  minced  parsley  or 
celery  and  2  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly. 

CHICKEN  FRICASSEED — {Mrs.  T.  B.  S.). — For  a  two-o'clock  dinner. 
At  12  o'clock  kill,  clean  and  cut  up  2  chickens,  then  into  a  skillet  put 
2  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  then  stir  into  it  gradually  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  until  of  a  nice  brown;  ir.to  the  lard  put  small 
onions  chopped.  Lay  in  the  chicken  and  fry  of  a  good  brown. 
Pour  in  3  pints  of  boiling  water.  Flavor  with  minced  parsley,  black 
pepper  and  2  cloves.  Cover  it  up  and  boil  until  reduced  one-half; 
then  in  a  small  bowl  put  the  yolks  of  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  vinegar  and  wine,  a  little  Worcester  sauce,  and 
stir  well  together.  Then  into  the  mixture  stir  4  spoonfuls  of  hot 
gravy,  then  pour  into  the  gravy  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  a  moment, 
and  pour  it  over  the  chicken,  which  has  been'laid  in  a  hot  dish,  and 
serve  at  once. 

FRICASSEE  OF  CHICKENS  THICKENED  WITH  MILK  OF  ALMONDS. — 
Cut  up  2  chickens  as  directed  for  fricassee  of  chickens  a  la  St.  Lam- 
bert. Blanch,  drain,  wipe  and  trim  the  pieces  ;  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  i  quart  of  nice  sauce  and  i  pint  of  chicken  broth.  When 
the  chicken  is  done,  pour  the  liquor  out  of  the  stew-pan  into  an- 
other;  skim  off  the  fat  and  reduce  the  sauce  until  it  coats  the  spoon  ; 
then  strain  it  on  the  pieces  of  chicken  in  the  stew-pan ;  boil  up  to- 
gether and  thicken  the  sauce  with  some  milk  of  almonds,  prepared 
as  follows :  First  blanch  and  peel  2  oz.  of  sweet  almonds,  wash  and 
pound  them  in  a  mortar,  moistening  them  with  1-2  pint  of  milk; 
when  well  pounded,  press  them  through  a  broth-napkin  into  a  basin. 
Take  the  fricassee  off  the  fire,  let  it  cool  for  a  minute  and  pour  the 
mik  of  almonds  with  one  hand,  while  tossing  the  contents  of  a  stew- 
pan  with  the  other,  so  as  to  mix  and  thicken  the  sauce.  Dress  the 
fricassee  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

FRICASSEED  TURKEY. — Cut  up  a  small,  young  turkey  and  rinse  it 


154  FRICASSEES. 

in  cold  water ;  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  water  to  cover  it ;  cover  the 
stew-pan  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  remove  the  froth  as  it  rises ; 
when  tender  add  salt  to  taste,  a  heaped  spoonful  of  pepper,  4  oz. 
sweet  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  stir  well  with  a  s'poon. 
Scald  some  parsley,  chop  it  small,  put  it  into  the  turkey  stew  and 
cover  it  closely.  Simmer  for  20  minutes.  Serve  hot  for  breakfast 
with  rice,  hominy  or  potatoes. 

To  FRICASSEE  PIGEONS. — Cut  them  in  pieces  and  fry  brown ;  lay 
them  in  a  stew-pan  with  gravy  and  let  them  remain  an  hour,  at  the  end 
of  which  time  put  in  a  slice  of  lemon,  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  cat- 
sup and  a  little  browning.  Let  them  stew  5  minutes  longer,  take 
them  up,  thicken  the  gravy  with  butter  and  flour  and  strain  over  the 
birds.  Lay  forcemeat  balls  around  the  dish  and  garnish  with  pickles. 

To  FRICASSEE  EGGS. — Boil  your  eggs  10  minutes,  or  until  entirely 
hard.  Take  them  up  and  drop  them  into  a  vessel  of  cold  water 
until  cold  enough  to  remove  the  shells  smoothly.  •  Beat  up  one  or 
more  raw  eggs,  according  to  what  is  required.  Roll  the  hard-boiled 
eggs  in  the  beaten  egg ;  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs  and  let  them  dry, 
turning  them.  Fry  in  hot  lard  or  oil.  Use  as  an  accompaniment  roasted 
or  baked  meat,  with  a  rich  gravy.  They  may  be  cut  in  two,  if  de- 
sired ;  take  out  the  yolk  and  fill  each  end  with  nice  stuffing ;  unite 
them  or  not,  as  preferred ;  roll  in  raw  beaten  eggs,  then  in  powdered 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry. 

To  FRICASSEE  RABBITS  WHITE. — To  fricassee  rabbits  white,  you 
must  cut  them  up  as  for  eating,  and  then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
with  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  a  little  beaten  mace,  a  slice  of  lemon,  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Let 
them  stew  over  a  gentle  fire  until  done  enough ;  then  take  them  out 
and  lay  them  in  your  dish.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  butter  and  flour ; 
then  strain  it  and  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  mixed  with  a  gill  of  thick 
cream  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  stir  these  well  together,  and  when 
it  begins  to  simmer  pour  it  quite  hot  over  your  rabbits,  and  serve 
them  hot. 

To  FRICASSEE  RABBITS  BROWN. — Cut  them  into  pieces  as  before 
directed  and  fry  them  in  butter  of  a  light  brown  ;  then  put  them  in 
a  stew-pan  with  a  pint  of  water,  a  slice  of  lemon,  a  large  spoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Stew  them  over 
a  slow  fire  until  enough  done ;  then  thicken  your  gravy  with  butter 
and  flour,  and  strain  it.  Dish  up  your  rabbits  and  pour  your  gravy 
over  them.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

FRICASSEED  LAMB'S  FRIRS. — Skin  and  wash  them,  dry  and  flour 
them,  and  fry  of  a  beautiful  brown  in  fresh  hog's  lard ;  lay  them  on  a 
sieve  before  the  fire  until  you  have  made  the  following  sauce  : 
Thicken  almost  1-2  pint  of  veal  gravy  with  a  bit  of  flour  and 


FRICASSEES.  155 

butter,  and  then  add  to  it  a  slice  of  lemon,  a  large  spoonful  of 
mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  grate  of  nut- 
meg and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  well  in  2  large  spoonfuls  of 
thick  cream.  Put  this  over  the  fire  and  stir  it  well  until  it  is  hot 
and  looks  white ;  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle ;  then 
put  in  the  fry  and  shake  it  about  near  the  fire  for  a  moment  or 
two.  Serve  in  a  very  hot  covered  dish.  Those  of  hogs  may  be 
cooked  in  the  same  way,  or  simply  slightly  salted  and  fried  in 
new  hog's  lard. 

AN  EXCELLENT  FRENCH  FRICASSEE  OF  BEANS  so  AS  TO  RESEMBLE 
THE  TASTE  OF  MEAT. — Take  Lima,  butter  or  sugar  beans,  and  alter 
boiling  them  sufficiently  to  eat,  brown  some  butter,  taking  ca-re  to 
season  well  with  salt,  in  an  iron  bake-pan  or  spider  previously  warmed 
or  heated.  Put  into  it  your  beans,  after  letting  them  drain  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  fry  them  until  they  begin  to  turn  brown,  then  mix  with 
the'm  a  few  onions  finely  chopped,  and  continue  the  frying  for  a  short 
time  longer,  adding  some  parsley.  When  the  beans  appear  to  be 
nearly  done,  add  a  little  water  to  them,  some  salt,  black  pepper  to 
taste,  and  dredge  well  with  flour.  When  done,  stir  into  them  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  spoonful  of  water  and  add  a  small 
portion  of  vinegar.  A  spoonful  of  catsup  should  be  put  in  with  the 
flour. 

FRICASSEE  OF  PARSNIPS. — Boil  in  milk  until  they  are  soft ;  then  cut 
them  lengthwise  into  bits  2  or  3  inches  long,  and  simmer  in  a  white 
sauce  made  of  2  spoonfnls  of  broth,  a  bit  of  mace,  1-2  cupful  of 
cream,  a  bit  of  butter  and  some  flour,  pepper  and  salt. 

To  FRICASSEE  SALMON. — Cut  a  piece  of  salmon  into  small  slices, 
mince  some  parsley  and  thyme,  season  the  fish  with  salt,  mace,  cloves, 
ginger,  nutmeg  powdered  small  and  well  mixed.  Put  into  a  pan 
some  clarified  butter  or  lard  ;  make  it  very  hot,  then  lay  in  the  salmon 
and  fry  it  quickly,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn.  When  3-4 
done,  pour  off  the  fat  and  supply  its  place  with  white  wine,  oys- 
ters and  their  liquor,  a  large  onion,  some  minced  thyme  and  a  little 
nutmeg,  to  which  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  up  with  the  liquor. 
Dish  the  fricassee  with  sippets,  pour  the  sauce  thereon  and  garnish 
with  oysters. 

To  FRICASSEE  EELS. — Skin  3  or  4  large  eels,  notch  them  from  the 
head  to  the  tail,  cut  each  eel  into  4  or  5  pieces  and  lay  them  in  cleat 
water  for  1-2  an  hour;  dry  them  in  a  cloth  and  put  them  into  the 
pan  with  fresh  butter,  i  or  2  onions  and  some  chopped  parsley.  Set 
the  pan  on  the  fire  and  shake  it  for  a  few  minutes,  then  put  in  a  pint 
of  white  wine  and  the  same  quantity  of  gravy,  with  pepper,  salt  and 
a  blade  of  mace.  Stew  the  whole  together  1-2  an  hour,  and  then 
add  the  yolks  of  4  or  5  eggs,  some  grated  nutmeg  and  chopped 


156  VEGETABLES. 

parsley.  Stir  these  well  together  and  let  them  simmer  4  or  5  min- 
utes, after  which  put  in  the  juice  of  an  orange  or  lemon.  Garnish 
with  lemon  in  slices. 

To  FRICASSEE  LOBSTERS. — When  skinned  and  cleaned  cut  off  the 
heads  of  the  fish  and  dry  them  on  a  cloth.  Separate  the  flesh  from 
the  bones  and  the  fins,  cut  it  first  lengthwise  and  then  across,  so  that 
each  fish  may  be  divided  into  8  parts ;  put  the  heads  and  bones  in  a 
pan  with  a  pint  of  water,  sage,  parsley  and  thyme,  an  onion  shreded, 
whole  pepper,  2  or  3  blades  of  mace,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  a  little 
salt  and  a  crust  of  bread.  Cover  the  whole  closely  and  let  it  boil 
until  reduced  to  1-2  ;  strain  through  a  sieve  and  put  the  liquor  into 
a  stew-pan  with  the  fish,  adding  1-2  pint  of  white  wine,  some  chopped 
parsley,  a  few  mushrooms  cut  small,  grated  nutmeg  and  a  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour.  Keep  the  pan  shaking  over  a  slow  fire  until 
the  fish  are  done,  then  serve  them  up  with  the  gravy  and  garnish 
with  lemon. 

To  FRICASSEE  OYSTERS. — Put  into  the  pan  a  slice  of  ham,  a  bunch 
of  parsley,  thyme  and  an  onion,  with  cloves;  stew  these  over  a 
gentle  fire  for  a  few  minutes  and  add  thereto  a  little  flour,  some  good 
butter  and  a  piece  of  lemon  peel ;  then  put  in  the  oysters  and  let 
the  whole  simmer  until  thoroughly  hot.  Thicken  with  the  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  a  little  cream  and  a  piece  of  butter;  but  take  out  the  ham, 
herbs,  onion  and  peel,  adding,  instead  of  the  last,  some  of  the  juice, 
Shake  the  pan  well,  and  when  it  simmers  pour  the  whole  into  the 
dish. 

VEGETABLES. 

ASPARAGUS — (To  be  Served  with  Entrees). — For  8  people,  take 
100  sticks  of  asparagus,  scrape  the  white  part  of  the  stem  from  the 
head  downward  ;  cut  off  so  much  of  the  base  as  shall  leave  each 
stick  the  same  length  and  throw  them  as  fast  as  they  are  done  into 
cold  water.  When  all  are  prepared  tie  them  in  bundles  of  20,  diop 
them  into  1-2  gallon  of  fast  boiling  water,  in  which  i  heaped  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  has  been  dissolved.  In  about  10  minutes  they  will 
be  done,  if  small.  They  must  be  watched  until  the  moment  they 
are  tender.  They  should  then  be  taken  out  of  the  water  at  once, 
drained  dry  and  laid  upon  hot  buttered  toast  in  a  round  or  oval  dish 
and  the  stems  outward.  The  toast  should  be  dipped  for  a  moment 
into  the  asparagus  water.  No  sauce  should  be  served  with  the 
asparagus,  as  that  would  interfere  with  the  flavor  of  those  in  the 
entrees. 

ASPARAGUS  ROLL — (Mrs.  N.'s) — Boil  the  asparagus  in  salt  and 
water,  as  for  dinner ;  when  tender  cut  up  all  the  eatable  part  and 


VEGETABLES.  157 

warm  it  again  in  sweet  milk  that  is  thickened  with  butter  rubbed  in 
flour,  the  yolks  of  well  beaten  raw  eggs,  a  rasp  or  two  of  nutmeg,  a 
small  pinch  of  mace,  being  governed  by  the  quantity  of  asparagus. 
Then,  having  the  top  crust  taken  off  of  some  rolls,  and  the  crumbs 
scooped  out,  fill  up  the  hollow  with  the  boiling  asparagus  mixture, 
which  should  not  be  very  moist.  Place  the  upper  crust  on  and  serve 
at  once  very  hot. 

BOILED  ASPARAGUS. — To  each  1-2  gallon  of  water  allow  i  heaped 
tablespoonful  of  salt.  In  order  to  have  the  asparagus  white,  it  should 
be  cut  before  sunrise,  as  the  action  of  the  sun  turns  it  green,  and  it 
should  be  put  in  a  cool,  damp  place,  and  then  dressed  as  soon  as 
practicable.  Like  all  vegetables,  it  cannot  be  cooked  too  fresh ; 
then  scrape  the  outer  skin  off  beginning  at  the  head,  and  throw  them 
into  cold  water,  then  tie  them  in  bundles  of  about  20  in  each,  keep 
the  heads  all  one  way,  then,  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  stalks  evenly 
and  put  them  into  boiling  water  with  the  above  proportion  of  salt. 
Keep  them  boiling  quickly  until  tender,  with  the  saucepan  uncov- 
ered. When  the  asparagus  is  done,  dish  it  upon  toast,  which  should 
be  dipped  in  the  water  in  which  the  asparagus  has  been  boiled,  then 
turn  the  white  ends  toward  the  middle  each  way,  pour  over  them 
melted  butter  and  pepper,  15  to  18  minutes  from  the  time  the  water 
boils. 

ASPARAGUS  AND  BEANS. — Cut  the  tender  parts  of  the  asparagus 
into  1-4  inch  lengths,  boil  in  an  equal  quantity  of  water,  adding  about 
an  equal  amount  of  well-cooked  Linja  beans.  Cook  until  the  aspar- 
agus is  tender,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  butter  or  cream,  and  serve 
hot.  Instead  of  the  beans  the  asparagus  may  be  thickened  with 
flour  and  cream,  or  with  cracker  crumbs  and  milk. 

ASPARAGUS  OMELET. — Boil  the  required  quantity  of  asparagus  and 
cut  the  tops  and  tender  part  into  1-2  inch  lengths,  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  aside  on  the  stove  to  keep  warm  while 
you  make  your  omelet.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  6  eggs  to- 
gether, with  a  teaspoonful  of  milk  for  each  egg,  a  salt  spoonful  of 
salt  and  a  pinch  of  white  pepper;  brown  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  pour  your  eggs  in,  and  as  soon  as 
it  begins  to  set  at  the  edges  turn  them  up  and  shake  your  pan 
to  keep  the  omelet  from  sticking.  It  will  be  sufficiently  cooked 
in  five  minutes ;  put  your  asparagus  in,  turn  your  omelet  over  it 
as  you  would  a  turn-over  pie,  and  serve  at  once  on  a  hot  dish. 

BOILED  ARTICHOKES. — To  each  1-2  gallon  of  water  allow  one 
heaped  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  piece  of  soda  as  large  as  a  25- 
cent  piece.  Wash  the  archichokes  well  in  several  waters,  and  see 
that  no  insects  remain  in  them,  and  trim  away  the  leaves  at  the 
bottom,  cut  off  the  stems  and  put  them  into  boiling  water,  to 


158  VEGETABLES. 

which  has  been  added  salt,  and  soda  in  the  above  proportion. 
Keep  the  sauce-pan  covered  and  let  them  boil  quickly  until  ten- 
der, ascertain  when  they  are  done  by  pushing  a  fork  into  them,  or 
by  trying  if  the  leaves  can  be  easily  removed.  Take  them  out, 
let  them  drain  for  a  minute  or  two  and  serve  on  a  napkin  with 
a  little  pepper,  salt  and  melted* butter.  This  vegetable,  unlike 
any  other,  is  considered  better  for  being  gathered  two  or  three 
days ;  but  they  must  be  soaked  and  washed  previous  to  dressing 
— 20  to  25  minutes  after  the  water  boils. 

ARTICHOKES,  ITALIAN  WAY. — Four  or  five  artichokes,  salt  and 
butter;  about;  1-2  pint  of  gravy.  Trim  and  cut  the  archichokes  in 
quarters,  boil  them  until  tender  in  water  mixed  with  a  little  salt 
and  butter.  When  done,  drain  them  well,  and  lay  them  all  around 
the  dish  with  the  leaves  outside.  Have  ready  some  good  gravy 
highly  flavored  with  mushrooms  ;  reduce  it  until  quite  thick  and 
pour  it  around  the  artichokes  and  serve.  Twenty  to  twenty-five 
minutes  to  boil  the  archichokes. 

FRIED  ARTICHOKES. — Five  or  six  artichokes,  salt  and  water ; 
for  the  batter  1-2  lb.  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  the  yolk  of  i  egg  and 
milk.  Trim  and  boil  the  artichokes  and  rub  them  over  with 
lemon  juice  to  keep  them  white.  When  they  are  quite  tender, 
take  them  up  remove  the  chokes  and  divide  the  bottoms ; 
dip  each  piece  into  the  batter,  fry  them  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  and 
garnish  with  crisp  parsley  or  the  leaves,  flowers  and  buds  of  nas- 
turtium. Serve  with  plain  melted  butter ;  20  minutes  to  boil,  5  to 
7  minutes  to  fry  the  artichokes. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES — May  be  sliced  and  boiled  like  turnips, 
or  washed  and  cooked  in  any  way  that  Irish  potatoes  are,  but  they 
require  longer  cooking  and  are  deemed  excellent  when  boiled  or 
dressed  as  a  salad  when  mashed  and  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt 
and  butter  or  cream.  They  may  be  cut  in  the  shape  of  a  pear ; 
cut  off  a  piece  at  the  bottom  of  each,  that  they  may  stand  up- 
right in  the  dish,  and  pour  over  them  some  nice  sauce.  Twenty 
minutes  to  boil.  They  are  also  good  roasted  as  potatoes. 

STEWKD  CARROTS. — Seven  or  8  large  carrots,  i  teaspoonful  broth, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  1-2  teaspoonful  cream  or  milk,  thickening 
of  butter  and  flour.  Scrape  the  carrots  nicely  ;  half-boil,  and  slice 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  add  the  broth,  pepper,  salt  and  cream  and 
simmer  until  tender  and  be  careful  that  the  carrots  be  not  broken. 
A  few  minutes  before  serving  mix  a  little  flour  with  about  i  oz.  of 
butter,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  this ;  let  it  just  boil  up,  and  then 
serve.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  parboil  the  carrots ;  20  min- 
utes to  cook  them  after  they  are  boiled. 

To  DRESS  CARROTS  IN  THE   GERMAN   WAY. — Eight  large  car- 


VEGETABLES.  159 

rots,  3  oz.  butter,  salt  to  taste,  a  very  little  grated  nutmeg,  i  table- 
spoontul  finely-minced  parsley,  i  dessert-spoonful  minced  onion, 
rather  more  than  i  pint  of  weak  stock  or  broth,  and  i  tablespoonful 
flour.  Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots  and  cut  them  into  rings  about 
1-2  an  inch  in  thickness.  Put  the  butter  in  a  stew-pan;  when  it  is 
melted  lay  in  the  carrots  with  salt,  nutmeg,  parsley  and  onions  in  the 
above  proportions.  Toss  the  stew-pan  over  the  fire  for  a  few  min- 
utes, and  when  the  carrots  are  well  saturated  with  the  butter,  pour 
in  the  stock  and  simmer  until  they  are  nearly  tender.  Then  put  into 
another  stewpan  a  small  piece  of  butter,  dredge  in  about  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour,  stir  this  over  the  fire,  and  when  of  a  nice  brown 
color  add  the  liquor  that  the  carrots  have  been  boiling  in  ;  let  this 
just  boil  up,  pour  it  over  the  carrots  in  the  other  stew-pan  and  let 
them  finish  simmering  until  quite  tender.  Serve  very  hot.  This 
vegetable,  dressed  as  above,  is  a  favorite  accompaniment  of  roasted 
pork,  sausages,  beef,  etc.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  stew. 

BOILED  CARROTS. — To  each  1-2  gallon  of  water  allow  i  heaped 
tablespoonful  of  salt.  Cut  off  the  green  tops  and  wash  and  scrape 
the  carrots,  and  should  there  be  any  black  specks,  remove  them.  If 
large,  cut  them  in  halves,  divide  them  lengthwise  into  4  pieces  and 
put  them  in  boiling  water,  salted  in  the  above  proportion.  Let  them 
boil  until  tender,  which  may  be  ascertained  by  thrusting  a  fork  into 
them ;  dish  and  serve  very  hot.  This  vegetable  is  an  indispensable 
accompaniment  to  boiled  beef.  When  thus  served  it  is  usually  boiled 
with  the  beef.  A  few  carrots  are  placed  around  the  dish,  as  a  gar- 
nish, and  the  remainder  sent  to  table  in  a  vegetable  dish.  Young 
carrots  do  not  require  so  much  boiling,  nor  should  they  be  divided. 
These  are  a  nice  addition  to  stewed  veal,  etc.  Large  carrots,  i  3-4 
to  2  1-4  hours;  young  ones,  1-2  hour. 

SLICED  CARROTS. — Five  or  six  large  carrots,  a  large  lump  of  sugar, 
i  pint  of  weak  stock,  3  oz.  fresh  butter,  and  salt  to  taste.  Scrape 
and  wash  the  carrots,  cut  them  into  slices  of  an  equal  size,  and  boil 
them  in  salt  and  water  until  half-done,  drain  them  well,  put  them  in 
a  stew-pan  with  sage  and  stock,  and  let  them  boil  over  a" brisk  fire. 
When  reduced  to  a  glaze,  add  the  fresh  butler  and  a  seasoning  of 
salt ;  -shake  the  stew-pan  about  well,  and  when  the  butter  is  well- 
mixed  with  the  carrots,  serve.  There  should  be  no  sauce  in  the 
dish  when  sent  to  table,  but  it  should  all  adhere  to  the  carrots.  Al- 
together, 3-4  of  an  hour.  Always  in  season. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS  AND  BANANAS. — Boil  your  parsnips  and  let  them 
get  cold,  then  slice  and  flour  them  slightly  and  they  will  resemble  in 
flavor  and  appearance  fried  bananas. 

To  COOK  EGG  PLANT. — After  cutting  the  slices  1-2  inch  thick,  lay 
them  one  upon  the  other  in  salt  water  to  extract  the  bitter  principle, 
and  also  a  part  of  the  juice.  Then  fry  in  the  usual  way. 


l6o  VEGETABLES. 

EGG  PLANT  BAKED. — Peel  and  parboil  them,  then  squeeze  them 
between  two  plates  to  dry  them  ;  then  season  with  a  little  onion, 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  the  mixture  in  a  baking-dish,  grate 
over  some  bread  crumbs  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT. — Cut  off  the  stem-end  of  the  plant  and  scoop 
out  the  inside  with  the  handle  of  a  spoon.  Parboil  the  shell  for  5 
minutes  in  water  a  little  salted  ;  take  it  out,  and  at  once  plunge  it 
into  cold  water ;  then  stew  the  flesh  of  the  plant  with  pepper,  salt 
and  a  little  finely  chopped  onion,  until  done.  Add  to  the  stew,  with 
butter  to  season  it,  i  or  more  well-beaten  eggs,  (i  heaped  tea- 
spoonful,  and  i  egg  will  be  sufficient  for  i  plant) ;  mix  well  and 
stew  until  dry;  put  in  1-2  as  ,much  bread  crumbs  as  egg  plant; 
fill  the  plant  shell  with  this ;  a  little  minced  veal,  ham,  tongue  or 
poultry  may  be  added  to  the  forcemeat  by  way  of  improvement ; 
then  tie  on  the  piece  which  was  cut  off;  put  the  stuffed  eggs  to  bake 
in  a  dish,  the  bottom  covered  with  slices  of  sweet  bacon,  and  bake 
i  hour.  Serve  on  a  flat  dish.  Remove  the  string  and  top-piece. 
The  egg  plant  is  often  cut  in  two  lengthwise,  the  contents  removed 
and  stewed  as  above,  the  1-2  rind  parboiled  in  salt  and  water  until 
tender,  then  filled  with  a  rich  stuffing,  a  coating  of  egg  poured  over 
the  open  side,  and  bread  crumbs  sprinkled  over ;  put  in  a  dish  with 
slices  of  cold  ham  and  bake  until  tender ;  either  way  is  good. 

EGG  PLANTS  SIUFFED. — The  pulp  taken  carefully  out,  then  fill  with 
savory  meats.  Tie  a  string  around  it  and  boil  in  salt  and  water. 
You  may  stuff  them  with  any  forcemeat  you  like. 

EGG  PLANT  FRIED. — Boil  the  eggplant,  and  when  cold  slice,  flour, 
and  fry  in  butter  or  lard. 

BANANAS  are  fried  in  the  same  way,  but  they  are  not  previously 
cooked. 

BOILED  MUSHROOMS. — Mushroom  flaps,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
butter  and  lemon  juice.  Clean  the  mushrooms  by  wiping  them  with 
a  piece  of  flannel  and  a  little  salt;  cut  off  a  portion  of  the  stalk  and 
peel  the  tops  ;  boil  them  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  them  once,  and 
arrange  them  in  a  very  hot  dish.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on 
each  mushroom  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  squeeze  over  them 
a  lew  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Place  the  dish  before  the  fire,  and  when 
the  butter  is  melted,  serve  very  hot  and  quickly.  Moderate-sized 
flaps  are  better  suited  to  this  mode  of  cooking  than  the  buttons ;  the 
latter  are  better  in  stews.  Ten  minutes  to  cook  medium-sized  mush- 
rooms. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS. — 16  or  20  mushroom  flaps,  butter,  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  For  this  mode  of  cooking,  the  mushroom  flaps  are  bet- 
ter than  buttons,  and  should  not  be  too  large.  Cut  off  a  portion  of 
the  stalks,  peel  the  top  and  wipe  the  mushrooms  carefully  with  a 


VEGETABLES.  l6l 

piece  of  flannel  and  a  little  fine  salt.  Put  them  in  a  tin  baking-dish 
with  a  very  small  piece  of  butter  placed  on  each  mushroom  ;  sprinkle 
over  a  little  pepper  and  bake  for  20  minutes  or  longer,  should  the 
mushrooms  be  very  large.  Have  ready  a  very  hot  dish,  and  pile  the 
mushrooms  high  in  the  center,  pour  the  gravy  around  and  send  them 
to  table  quickly  with  very  hot  plates.  Twenty  minutes ;  large  mush- 
rooms 1-2  hour.  Mushrooms  are  difficult  of  digestion,  and  by  no 
means  nourishing.  The  best  are  those  found  in  pasture  grounds. 
Gardeners  raise  them  in  beds  of  old  manure.  The  most  of  them 
are  of  suspicious  qualities. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS. — One  pint  of  mushroom  buttons,  i  oz.  fresh 
butter,  white  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  lemon  juice,  i  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  cream  or  milk,  and  1-4  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg. 

How  TO  COOK  CELERY. — Trim  the  roots  and  cut  to  about  6 
inches,  three  heads  of  celery.  Wash  them  carefully,  tie  them  to- 
gether with  a  string,  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  an  onion,  a 
blade  of  mace,  some  whole  pepper,  salt,  and  enough  boiling  wa- 
ter to  cover  them.  Let  them  boil  until  tender,  then  drain  them, 
remove  the  string  and  serve  hot  with  white  sauce  over  them. 

CELERY  SUCKS  WITH  CREAM. — Previous  to  cooking  them,  they 
must  be  washed  well  and  properly  trimmed  ;  this  done,  and  the  sterns 
cut  to  the  requisite  length,  then  boil  in  plenty  water  for  10  minutes, 
then  put  them  in  some  liquor  in  which  bacon  has  been  boiled,  salt 
them,  then  take  them  up  and  moisten  them  with  the  liquor  from 
which  the  fat  has  been  skimmed  ;  then  pour  over  some  wine  or  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  cover  them  well,  trim  and  dish  them  up,  mash 
them  in  caramel  sauce,  reduced  with  cream.  Celery  stewed  and 
covered  simply  with  a  little  gravy  and  brown  sauce  is  very  nice. 

RADISHES  should  be  gathered  early  in  the  morning  ;  wash  them 
well  and  keep  them  in  ice-cold  water  until  time  to  serve  them  ;  then 
break  off  the  long  tap  root,  and  cut  off  all  the  top  except  an  inch  or 
two  ;  put  them  upon  a  salad  bowl  with  lettuces,  cresses,  etc.,  or  in 
glass  stands,  or  on  small  dishes.  The  crimson  ones  are  highly  orna- 
mental. Radishes  are  more  digestible,  if  grated  and  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  used  as  a  salad,  and  are  often  served  raw.  There 
are  many  varieties  of  the  radish,  and  possess  nearly  the  same  prop- 
erties of  the  turnip. 

HORSE  RADISH. — This  root,  scraped,  is  always  served  with  hot  roast 
beef,  mutton,  veal,  fowl,  roast  pork  or  any  kind  of  meat  cooked  in 
any  way,  and  also  with  fish  and  for  garnishing.  Gather  the  horse- 
radish, wash  it  well  and  let  it  remain  in  cold  water  for  i  hour  before 
using  it,  then  with  a  sharp  knife  scrape  it  into  shreds,  beginning  with 
the  upper  part  or  large  end  of  the  root ;  add  a  little  salt,  and  ar- 
range it  in  a  small  dish,  and  the  remainder  for  garnishing  the  joint. 


162  VEGETABLES. 

It  should  be  placed  in  tufts  around  the  border  of  the  dish,  with  one 
or  two  bunches  on  the  meat.  The  horse-radish  is  highly  stimulat- 
ing and  exciting  to  the  stomach,  and  is  recommended  in  chronic 
rheumatism,  palsy,  dropsical  complaints,  diseases  of  the  kidneys 
(made  into  tea  with  cold  water),  and  in  cases  of  enfeebled  digestion. 
It  is  used  principally  as  a  condiment  to  promote  appetite  and  excite 
the  digestive  organs,  and  is  highly  anti-scorbutic. 

BOILED  CABBAGE. — Choose  the  dark  green,  crumpled  cabbage, 
known  as  the  Savoy.  Take  off  the  coarse  outer  leaves  ;  cut  each 
cabbage  in  4 ;  remove  a  portion  of  the  stalk  ;  wash  them  in  warm 
salt  and  water,  then  throw  them  into  cold  salt  and  water  for  i  hour. 
For  4  large  cabbages  or  S  small  ones,  have  ready  a  vessel  with  i  1-2 
gallons  of  part  boiling  water,  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  common 
baking  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Press  the  cabbage  down  in  the 
water ;  let  it  boil  slowly  for  about  one  hour.  When  quite  tender 
take  it  up  and  lay  it  in  a  colander  to  drain.  Press  every  drop  of 
water  out  of  the  cabbage,  chop  it  finely  with  a  knife,  sprinkle  it  with 
pepper  each  time  you  turn  it;  add  to  it  i  oz.  butter,  i  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice  ;  put  it  into  a  clean  sauce-pan  and  stir  it  over  the  fire 
while  it  is  quite  hot  again ;  then  put  it  into  a  vegetable  dish,  and 
press  it  gently  until  it  is  smooth ;  score  it  a  little  on  the  top  with  a 
knife  and  serve  at  once. 

MEPHISTOPHELEAN  TOMATOES. — Just  to  think  of  it !  One  pint  of 
tomatoes  peeled,  i  hard-boiled  egg,  the  yolk  only,  2  large  spoon- 
fuls of  melted  butter,  i  1-2  spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  i  raw  egg  whip- 
ped very  light;  rub  in  the  butter  and  seasoning,  beat  till  perfectly 
smooth,  i  teaspoonful  each  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper;  pound  the 
boiled  yolk,  rub  that  in  and  beat  again,  stir  in  the  vinegar  boil- 
ing hot,  then  raw  egg  beaten,  keep  it  hot  (the  vessel  set  in  boil- 
ing water),  while  you  prepare  your  tomatoes,  cut  in  thin  slices 
and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  lay  on  a  chafing  dish  and  pour  the 
hot  sauce  over  them  and  serve. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. — Eight  or  ten  tomatoes,  pepper  and  salt,  2 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  bread  crumbs.  Take  off  the  stems  from  the 
tomatoes,  cut  them  into  thick  slices  and  put  them  in  a  deep  bak- 
ing dish,  add  a  plentiful  seasoning  of  pepper  salt  and  butter 
in  the  above  proportion,  cover  the  whole  with  bread  crumbs,  drop 
over  a  little  clarified  butter,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  20  min- 
utes to  1-2  hour,  and  serve  very  hot.  This  vegetable,  dressed  as 
above,  is  an  exceedingly  nice  accompaniment  to  all  kinds  of  roast 
meat.  The  tomatoes,  instead  of  being  cut  in  slices,  may  be  baked 
whole,  but  they  will  take  rather  longer  time  to  cook ;  20  minutes  to 
1-2  hour. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. — One  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs,  i  table- 


VEGETABLES.  163 

spoonful  of  good  brown  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  a  heaped 
tablespoonful  of  fresh  butter,  i  dozen  large  tomatoes,  a  good  sized 
onion  minced.  Put  in  a  covered  stew  pan  and  cook  i  hour ;  shake 
the  pan  frequently  to  keep  from  burning.  Just  before  serving  beat 
up  the  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs,  stir  them  rapidly  to  the  tomatoes,  let 
them  stay  a  few  minutes  and  serve  in  a  covered  dish  or  tureen.  To- 
matoes are  best  cooked  slowly  and  a  long  time,  and  make  a  fine  ac- 
companiment for  all  kinds  of  roast  or  baked  meats  or  fowls. 

STEWED  TOMATOES — (English  mode.) — Eight  or  10  tomatoes,  1-2 
pint  of  good  gravy,  thickening  of  butter  and  flour,  cayenne  and  salt 
to  taste.  Take  out  the  stalks  of  the  tomatoes,  put  them  into  a  wide 
stew  pan,  pour  over  them  the  above  proportions  of  good  brown 
gravy  and  stew  gently  until  they  are  tender,  occasionally  carefully 
turning  them  that  they  may  be  equally  done.  Thicken  the  gravy 
with  a  little  butter  and  flour  worked  together  in  a  plate ;  let  it  just 
boil  up  after  the  thickening  is  added  and  serve.  Stew  very  gently 
for  20  to  25  minutes. 

To  DRESS  TRUFFLES  WITH  CHAMPAGNE. — Twelve  fine  black  truf- 
fles, a  few  slices  of  fat  bacon,  i  carrot,  i  turnip,  2  onions,  i  bunch  of 
savory  herbs,  including  parsley  ;  i  bay  leaf,  mint  and  thyme,  2  cloves, 
i  blade  of  pounded  mace,  2  glasses  of  champagne,  1-2  pint  of  stock. 
Carefully  select  the  truffles,  reject  those  that  have  a  musty  smell,  and 
wash  them  well  with  a  brush  in  cold  water  only  until  perfectly  clean, 
put  the  bacon  into  a  stew  pan  with  the  truffles  and  remaining  ingre- 
dients. Simmer  these  gently  for  i  hour  and  let  the  whole  cool  in  a 
stew  pan.  When  to  be  served  re-warm  them  and  drain  them  in  a 
clean  cloth,  then  arrange  them  on  a  delicate  white  napkin  that  it 
may  contrast  as  strongly  as  possible  with  the  truffles,  and  serve. 
The  trimmings  of  the  truffles  are  used  to  flavor  the  gravies,  stock, 
sauces,  &c.,  and  are  an  excellent  addition  to  ragouts,  made  dishes 
of  fowl,  &c.  One  hour  for  cooking. 

The  wholesomeness  of  the  truffles  is  questionable.  Truffles  are 
of  different  kinds  and  grow  in  clusters,  and  at  a  considerable  depth 
under  the  earth,  and  never  upon  the  surface.  There  is  nothing  to 
indicate  wJiere  they  are,  but  hogs,  attracted  by  their  scent,  root  them 
upto*eat,  as  they  are  fond  of  them.  Truffles  are  unsuitable  for 
weak  stomachs.  They  have  a  pleasant  aroma.  Their  chief  use 
as  seasoning,  when  dried  and  reduced  tp  powder,  form  a  useful 
culinary  ingredient.  They  belong  to  the  mushroom  family. 

ITALIAN  MODE  OF  DRESSING  TRUFFLES. — Ten  truffles,  1-4  pint  of 
salad  oil,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  i  tablespoonful  of  minced  pars- 
ley, a  very  little  finely  minced  garlic,  2  blades  of  powdered  mace,  i 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  After  cleaning  and  brushing  the  truf- 
fles cut  them  into  thin  slices  and  put  them  in  a  baking  dish  with  a 


164  VEGETABLES. 

seasoning  of  oil,  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  garlic  and  mace  in  the  above 
proportions.  Bake  them  for  nearly  an  hour,  and  just  before  serving 
add  the  lemon  juice  and  send  them  to  the  table  very  hot.  Nearly  i 
hour  to  cook.. 

TRUFFLES  AU  NATURAL. — Truffles,  buttered  paper.  Select  some 
fine  truffles,  cleanse  them  by  washing  them  in  separate  waters 
with  a  brush  until  not  a  particle  of  sand  or  grit  remains  on  them, 
wrap  each  truffle  in  a  buttered  paper  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  or 
stew  pan  for  i  hour ;  take  off  the  paper,  wipe  the  truffles  and  serve 
them  hot  on  a  napkin ;  i  hour. 

SQUASHES. — Gather  them  when  the  rind  can  be  entered  by  the 
finger  nail,  then  boil  them  either  whole  or  sliced;  if  old,  they 
should  be  peeled;  keep  them  in  water  until  the  time  for  cooking 
them.  If  young  and  tender  they  will  cook  in  1-2  to  3-4  of  an 
hour,  depending  on  the  size  and  age.  Add  salt  to  the  water  when 
boiling.  Put  them  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  cover  the  vessel  closely. 
When  tender  take  them  up  and  press  them  between  2  plates  or 
in  a  colander  to  remove  the  water,  then  mash  them,  and  if  there 
are  any  hard  pieces  take  them  out,  wipe  the  stew  pan  dry  and  re- 
turn the  squash,  and  season  with  cream,  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  They  can  be  parboiled  and  stewed  to  a  beautiful  brown  with 
slices  of  fat,  sweet  bacon,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  good  spice  of  on- 
ions, or  after  squeezing  them  dry  dip  the  slices  in  thin  batter  and  fry 
them  in  fresh  lard.  Serve  as  fast  as  fried  ;  they  should  not  be 
piled. 

DRYING  COOKED  PUMPKINS. — After  cutting  the  pumpkin  in  small 
pieces,  stew  till  soft,  then  thoroughly  mash  and  strain  them  through 
a  colander;  place  the  slrained  pulp  in  thin  layers  in  dishes  or  plates 
not  quite  an  inch  thick,  dry  in  a  moderate  stove  or  oven,  tak- 
ing care  not  to  scorch  it.  It  will  dry  in  a  day.  Then  store  the 
sheets  away  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  when  they  are  always  ready  for 
pies  or  sauce.  When  used,  soak  them  in  sweet  milk  over  night. 

GREEN  TURNIPS  TO  COOK. — Remove  the  tops,  wash,  peel  and  cut 
them  into  little  billets,  stew  in  not  too  much  water ;  when  done  dress 
them  with  cream,  butter,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg  and  salt  to  taste. 
Serve  hot ;  very  nice. 

BOILED  TURNIPS. — Turnips;  to  each  1-2  gallon  of  water  allow  i 
heaped  tablespoonful  oi  salt ;  pare  the  turnips,  and  should  they  be 
large,  divide  them  into  quarters,  but  unless  this  is  the  case  let  them 
be  cooked  whole.  After  peeling  them  they  should  be  washed  in 
several  waters,  and  then  divide  them  and  put  them  into  a  sauce  pan 
of  boiling  water  salted  in  the  above  proportion,  and  let  them  boil 
gently  till  tender.  Fry  them  with  pork,  and  when  done  take  them 
in  a  colander  or  between  two  plates  and  let  them  drain  thoroughly 


VEGETABLES.  l6$ 

and  serve.  Turnips  are  usually  boiled  with  mutton  or  pork,  or 
pork  shins,  which  gives  the  turnips  a  better  flavor,  while  the  meat  is 
greatly  improved  in  taste  by  being  cooked  with  them.  They  are 
infinitely  better  mashed  than  served  whole,  but  some  prefer  them 
whole.  Old  turnips  from  3-4  to  i  1-4  hours,  young  ones  28  or  30 
minutes  for  boiling. 

MASHKD  TURNIPS. — Tenor  12 large  turnips;  to  each  1-2  gallon  of 
water  allow  i  heaped  tablespoonful  of  salt,  2  ounces  of  butter,  cay- 
enne or  white  pepper  to  taste.  Peel,  wash  and  quarter  the  turnips 
and  put  them  into  boiling  water,  salted  in  the  above  proportion,  boil 
them  till  tender,  then  drain  them  in  a  colander  or  between  2  plates. 
Squeeze  them  as  dry  as  possible,  pressing  them  with  the  back  of  a 
large  plate.  When  quite  free  from  water  put  them  into  a  very  clean 
sauce  pan,  add  the  butter,  white  pepper  or  cayenne,  or  if  necessary 
a  little  salt.  Keep  stirring  them  over  the  fire  until  the  butter  is  well 
mixed  with  them  and  the  turnips  are  thoroughly  hot ;  dish  and  serve. 
A  little  cream  or  milk  added  after  the  turnips  are  pressed  is  an  im- 
provement to  both  the  color  and  flavor  of  this  vegetable,  and  also 
pounded  allspice  or  cloves,  a  very  little.  From  1-2  to  3-4  hour  to 
boil  the  turnips.  10  minutes  to  warm  them  through. 

FRIED  TURNIPS. --Peel,  wash  and  slice  them,  put  them  in  a  stew 
pan  with  a  small  portion  of  water  and  let  simmer  rather  quickly  with 
a  few  slices  of  fat  pork,  pepper,  pounded  allspice,  a  bit  of  butter  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  When  the  liquor  has  become  nearly  boiled  away 
thicken  the  gravy  with  a  small  portion  of  cream  or  milk  and  flour, 
and  boiling  hot  pour  it  over  the  dish  of  turnips,  which  should  be 
eaten  hot. 

BACON  AND  CABBAGE. — The  cabbages  in  this  favorite  winter  dish 
in  the  Southern  States  should  be  boiled  in  two  waters  with  a  little 
red  pepper  in  them,  which  gives  a  pleasant  flavor  to  the  cabbages, 
as  well  as  the  pot-liquor,  which  arises  from  the  boiling  of  the  cab- 
bages and  bacon  together.  The  liquor  should  be  thoroughly  drained 
from  the  cabbages  ;  then  take  up  the  meat  and  lay  the  cabbages 
neatly  around  it.  Some  garnish  it  with  hard-boiled  eggs.  You  can 
season,  when  you  eat  it,  with  pepper,  vinegar  and  salt. 

To -STUFF  CABBAGES. — Examine  it  well  after  cutting  off  the  green 
leaves,  wash  it  well  and  lay  it  in  cold,  clear  water  until  ready  for  use. 
Take  out  the  heart  or  center,  leaving  2  or  3  rows  of  leaves.  Scald 
the  cabbage  well,  and  when  the  leaves  become  soft  there  will  be  no 
danger  of  their  breaking.  Chop  the  heart  or  bud  very 
fine ;  then  take  scraps  of  meat,  fowl,  a  few  bread  crumbs,  an 
onion  (if  approved)  chopped  fine,  season  high  with  pepper,  salt 
and  a  raw  egg  beaten  ;  work  all  together.  Then  make  one  large  or 
several  small  balls  and  put  into  the  center  of  the  cabbage ;  then  fold 


1 66  "VEGETABLES. 

the  leaves  over  very  carefully,  wrap  well  with  threads,  tie  it  up  in  thin 
muslin  securely  and  boil  until  tender,  or  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw. 
Drain  it  from  the  water,  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  melted 
butter  after  the  strings  and  cloth  are  removed. 

COLD  SLAW. — Shave  a  hard,  white  cabbage  head  to  the  finest  pos- 
sible threads  with  a  very  sharp  knife  or  by  machine.  To  every  quart 
of  cabbage  take  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  beat  them  well  and  mix  with 
t  1-2  cupfuls  of  good  cider  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  i 
tablespoonful  of  loaf  sugar,  i  of  thick,  new  cream,  a  heaped  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  mustard,  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  stir  them  together  and  put  this  into  a 
sauce-pan ;  when  hot,  add  the  cabbage,  and  stew  for  4  or  5  minutes 
until  thoroughly  hot.  Then  raise  it  up  with  a  wooden,  silver  or  white 
metal  fork.  Take  it  up  and  set  it  away  until  perfectly  cold,  or  on  ice. 
The  vinegar  should  be  strong  and  pure,  or  more  will  be  required. 

HOT  SLAW. — When  the  cabbages  are  tender,  cook  i  hour ;  add 
vinegar  to  taste.  Parboil  the  cabbages  for  10  minutes  after  quarter- 
ing and  washing  them  carefully  and  shreding  them  finely,  put  them 
into  a  stew-pan,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  add  1-2 
cup  of  water  and  an  even  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  cover  the  pan  and 
stew  until  tender;  stir  frequently  from  the  bottom. 

STEWED  RED  CABBAGES. — One  red  cabbage,  a  small  slice  of  ham, 

1  spoonful  of  fresh  butter,  t  pint  of  weak  stock  or  broth,   i  gill  of 
cider   vinegar,   and   i   tablespoonful  of  pounded  sugar.     Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  ccok  rather  more  than  i  hour. 

FRIED  CABBAGES. — Boil  and  chop  them  up,  then  fry  them  in  but- 
ter or  bacon  grease,  adding  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  cream  or  new 
milk  to  the  gravy.  Cold  cabbage  can  be  fried  over  for  breakfast  in 
the  same  way. 

CABBAGE  STALKS. — Scrape  them  and  leave  them  in  water  all  night, 
and  the  next  day  cook  them  like  vegetable  marrow.  They  will  be 
found  delicious.  Season  with  cream  or  butter  and  pepper. 

HARICOT  BEANS  AND  MINCED  ONIONS — One  quart  of  haricot  beans, 
4  middling-sized  onions,  1-4  pint  of  good  brown  .gravy,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  flour.  Peel  and  mince  the  onions,  but  not 
too  finely,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown  color  in  butter ;  dredge  them 
over  with  a  little  flour  and  add  the  gravy  and  a  seasoning  of 
pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  minced  haricot  beans 
well  boiled  and  drained;  put  them  with  the  onions  and  gravy 
mixed  all  well  together,  and  serve  very  hot.  Boil  the  beans  for 

2  or  2  1-2  hours;  5  minutes  to  fry  the  onions. 

DRIED  WHITE  BEANS. — Wash  i  quart  of  dried  white  beans,  and 
put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  3  quarts  of  cold  water,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt;  set  on  the  fire,  and  when  boiling  put  them  to 


VEGETABLES.  167 

simmer  in  the  closed  stew-pan  on  the  stove  corner  until  tender ; 
drain  and  put  them  back  in  the  stew-pan  with  i  oz.  butter,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  2  pinches  of  salt,  i  small  pinch  of 
pepper,  1-2  gill  of  the  liquor  of  the  beans;  toss  the  beans  until  the 
butter  is  melted,  and  serve.  Haricot  or  French  beans  are  also  served 
as  a  salad.  Let  them  get  cold,  put  them  in  a  salad  bowl,  season  with 
oil  or  butter,  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  celery 
chopped  fine. 

BOILED  CAULIFLOWER. — To  each  1-2  gallon  of  water  allow  one 
heaped  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Choose  cauliflowers  that  are  close 
and  white,  trim  off  the  decayed  outside  leaves  and  cut  the  stalk 
flat  at  the  bottom,  open  the  flower  a  little  in  places  to  remove 
the  insects,  which  generally  are  found  about  the  stalk,  and  let 
the  cauliflowers  lie  in  salt  and  water  for  an  hour  previous  to 
dressing  them,  with  their  heads  downward ;  this  will  effectually 
draw  out  all  the  vermin ;  then  put  them  in  fast-boiling  water,  with 
the  addition  of  salt  in  the  above  proportion,  and  let  them  boil  briskly 
on  a  good  fire,  keeping  the  sauce-pan  uncovered.  The  water  should 
be  well  skimmed,  and  when  the  cauliflowers  are  tender  take  them 
up  with  a  slice  or  perforated  ladle,  and  let  them  drain,  and,  if  large 
enough,  place  them  upright  in  the  dish.  Serve  with  plain,  melted 
butter,  a  little  of  which  may  be  poured  over  the  flower.  Small  caul- 
iflower, 12  to  15  minutes;  large  one,  20  to  25  minutes  after  the 
water  boils. 

CAULIFLOWERS  WITH  CHEESE — 2  or  3  cauliflowers,  rather  more  than 
1-2  pint  of  broth  or  white  sauce,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese, 
i  spoonful  of  fresh  butter,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs  — 
clean  and  boil  the  cauliflowers  (as  in  recipe  for  boiled  artichokes), 
drain  and  dish  them  with  the  flowers  standing  upright ;  have  ready 
the  above  proportion  of  white  sauce  ;  pour  sufficient  of  it  over  the 
cauliflower  to  just  cover  the  top;  sprinkle  over  this  some  rasped 
cheese  and  bread  crumbs,  and  drop  on  these  the  butter,  which  should 
be  melted,  but  not  oiled.  Brown  with  a  salamander  or  before  the 
fire,  and  pour  not  over,  but  around  the  flowers  the  remainder  of  the 
sauce,  with  which  should  be  mixed  a  small  quantity  of  grated  cheese. 
Cook  1-2  hour.  Cauliflower  is  cooked  in  every  way,  like  cabbage. 

To  BOIL  CAULIFLOWER — (Mrs.  Sicklan). — If  the  flower  is  small 
and  tender,  put  it  in  boiling  water  and  boil  20  minutes  or  a  shorter 
time.  If  the  head  is  large,  old  and  tough,  boil  for  30  minutes  or  a 
little  longer,  putting  it  at  first  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Serve 
hot,  with  butter  or  Tillie's  sauce  for  cauliflowers.  The  water  should 
be  salted.  Some  boil  it  in  a  bag  to  prevent  it  breaking  off  the  small 
sprigs. 

BOILED  ONIONS. — In  clear  water  and  salt  until  tender,  then  take 


l68  VEGETABLES. 

them  up  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish  with  melted  butter,  pepper  and 
salt. 

RAW  ONIONS — Cut  up  in  vinegar,  pepper,  salt  and  sugar,  make  a  fine 
relish  for  any  kind  of  meat. 

BAKED  ONIONS. — 4  or  5  onions,  salt  and  water.  Put  the  onions 
with  their  skins  on  into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water  slightly  salted, 
and  let  them  boil  quickly  for  i  hour.  Take  them  out,  wipe  them 
thoroughly,  wrap  each  one  in  a  piece  of  paper  separately,  and  bake 
them  in  a  moderate  oven  for  2  hours,  or  longer,  should  the  onions 
be  very  large.  They  may  be  served  in  their  skins  and  eaten  with  a 
piece  of  cold  butter  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt,  or  they 
may  be  peeled  and  a  good  brown  gravy  poured  over  them.  Boil  i 
hour ;  bake  2  hours. 

STEWED  ONIONS. — 5  or  6  onions,  i  pint  of  brolh  or  gravy.  Peel 
the  onions,  taking  care  not  to  cut  away  too  much  of  the  tops  or  tails, 
or  they  would  then  fall  to  pieces ;  put  them  into  a  ste\v-pan  capable 
of  holding  them  at  the  bottom  without  piling  one  on  the  top  of  the 
other;  add  the  brother  gravy  and  simmer  very  gently  until  the 
onions  are  perfectly  tender,  dish  them  and  pour  the  gravy  around, 
and  serve.  Instead  of  using  broth,  onions  may  be  stewed  with  a 
large  piece  of  butter.  They  must  be  done  very  gradually  over  a 
slow  fire  or  hot  plate,  and  will  produce  plenty  of  gravy.  To  stew  in 
gravy,  2  hours,  or  longer,  if  very  large. 

BURNT  ONIONS  FOR  GRAVIES. — 1-2  Ib.  onion,  1-2  pint  water,  1-2 
Ib.  moist  sugar,  1-3  pint  cider  vinegar.  Peel  and  chop  the  onions 
fine  and  put  them  into  a  (not  tinned)  stew-pan  with  the  water;  let 
them  boil  for  5  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar  and  simmer  gently  until 
the  mixture  becomes  nearly  black  and  throws  out  bubbles  of  smoke. 
Have  ready  the  above  proportion  of  boiling  vinegar,  strain  the  liquor 
gradually  to  it,  and  keep  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  is  well 
incorporated,  and  when  cold,  bottle  for  use.  With  many  the  onion 
is  a  very  great  favorite,  and  is  considered  highly  nutritive.  It  is 
thought  to  have  come  originally  from  India,  through  Egypt,  where 
it  became  an'  object  of  worship,  and  thence  transmitted  over  the 
world. 

ONIONS  ARE  FRIED  in  butter  or  bacon  grease  after  chopping  them 
up. 

ONIONS  IN  CELLARS — (Dr.  Goot's  Monthly). — Half  dozen  onions 
planted  in  the  cellar,  where  they  get  even  a  little  light,  will  do  much 
toward  absorbing  and  correcting  the  atmospheric  impurities  that  are 
apt  to  lurk  in  such  places. 

A  GOOD  WAY  TO  COOK  ONIONS. — Peel  i  dozen  onions,  put  them 
in  a  kettle  with  water  enough  to  cover  them  ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  put  them  on  the  fire  and  boil  until  well  done,  but  so  you  can 


VEGETABLES.  169 

take  them  up  whole  with  a  fork,  pour  off  the  water,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  1-2  cup  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

To  STEW  GREEN  CORN. — After  the  corn  has  been  cut  from  the 
cobs  with  a  sharp  knife,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  then  with  the  back 
of  the  knife  run  over  the  cob,  to  obtain  the  remaining  juice,  hold- 
ing it  over  the  pan  ;  to  each  quart  of  corn,  add  1-2  cup  of  water. 
Stew  from  1-2  to  3-4  hour,  or  until  done,  governed  by  the  age 
and  kind  of  corn.  When  done,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Another  way:  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  grains  of  corn 
from  the  cob,  into  a  frying-pan,  allowing  i  cup  of  water  to  i 
quart  of  corn.  It  should  be  stirred  frequently.  Cook  1-2  hour. 
Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter  or 
sweet  lard,  and  fry  a  light  brown  color. 

To  DRESS  CORN. — When  the  silks  or  beards  of  the  corn  become 
of  almost  a  black  brown,  the  grains  are  perfect  and  full  of  milk, 
and  not  too  hard.  Commence  by  pulling  off  the  silk  and  then 
the  husks  (or  shucks),  then  carefully  pick  off  all  the  silks  that 
remain,  after  rubbing  the  ear  of  corn  (or  roasting  ear)  round  in 
a  cloth  held  in  the  hand.  Then  put  the  corn  in  boiling  water 
with  a  little  salt  in  it.  If  the  corn  is  young,  cook  1-2  hour.  Cut 
the  corn  from  the  cobs  with  a  sharp  knife ;  put  it  into  a  covered 
deep  dish.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter,  or  serve  the 
ears  hot  as  they  are  boiled.  Sugar  corn  is  best  for  table  use. 

GREEN  CORN  PUDDING. — Three  well  beaten  eggs,  3  cups  of 
green  corn,  i  cup  of  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Bake. 

GRKEN  CORN  PUDDING  WITH  TOMATOES. — Leave  the  grains  as 
whole  as  possible  when  trimming  them  down  with  a  knife  from  the 
ear,  then  scrape  the  cob  to  get  all  the  milk.  Then  beat  up  4  eggs 
wiih  a  quart  of  milk,  i  quart  of  the  rasped  corn,  and  then  add  i  pint 
of  tomatoes  that  have  been  stewed  with  sugar.  Season  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  Stir  it  well  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  smooth. 
Boil  it  in  a  pudding  cloth.  It  is  best  to  rasp  the  corn  on  a  regular  tin 
corn-grater  for  puddings,  etc. 

BAKED  CORN. — Take  6  large  ears  of  green  corn  or  12  ears  of  su- 
gar corn,  cut  the  grains  off  and  scrape  the  cob;  add  1-2  cupful  of 
butter,  i  tablespoonful  nice  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Rub 
these  well  together  and  add  2  cups  of  new  sweet  milk.  Bake  in  a 
dish  that  you  may  set  on  the  table  without  disturbing  it 

BOILED  PEAS. — Put  2  quarts  of  water  with  1-4  oz.  of  salt  into 
a  3-quart  stew-pan  on  the  fire  ;  when  it  boils  pour  in  a  quart  of  fresh 
shelled  peas,  boil  quickly,  and  when  done  drain  and  put  them  in  a 
sauce  pan  with  3  oz.  of  butter ;  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt ;  toss  them 
untill  the  butter  is  melted,  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES, 

N.  P. — One  oz.  of  green  mints  may  be  added  to  the  water  in 
which  the  peas  are  bo 

STKVTKD  PEAS  WITH  BACON. — Take  1-4  Ib.  of  streaky  bacon,  re- 
move the  rind  and  cut  the  bacon  in  pieces  i  inch  long  and  1-4 
inch  thick ;  blanch  tor  5  minutes  in  boiling  water,  drain  and  put 
them  in  a  t-quart  stew-pan  with  i  oz.  butter;  fry  tor  5  minutes,  add 
i--  oa.  flour,  and  stir  for  4  minutes;  then  add  i  pint  of  water,  i 
quart  of  fine  peas  and  a  green  onion;  when  boiling  cover  the  s 
pan  and  simmer  for  1-2  hour.  Taste  for  seasoning;  take  out  the 
and  skim  the  pot. 

I  WITH  BACON— (Managero). — Put  2  pints  of  well- 
boiled  shelled  peas  into  a  stew-pan  with  5  spoonfuls  of  brown  sauce, 
a  of  brown  gravy,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  ;  button  onions  and  a 
bunch  of  parsley ;  let  it  boil  5  minutes  ;  have  ready-braised  4  OK,  of 
lean  bacon,  cut  it  in  very  small  slices,  add  it  to  the  peas,  take  out 
the  onions  and  parsley,  season  with  i  02.  of  butter  and  a  large  pinch 
MA  wo',1  to-other  and  stew  -o  minutes,  and  serve. 

SihwbD  PKAS. — Take   i  quart  of  tine   peas  freshly   shelled,  put 
them  in  a  quart   stew-pan  with   4   oz.    of  butter,   i  gill  of    water,  j; 
t  onions,  i  pinch  of  salt  and   i  oz,  butter.     Some  add  pat- 
not  advise  it,  as  its  strong  flavor  destroys  the  taste  of  the  [ 
Close  the  stew-pan  and  boil  the  peas  on  a  slow  fire  for  30  mini: 
when  done,  add  3-4   oz.  of  Hour  m\  .   smooth   paste  with  4 

ox.  butter  ;  toss  the  sauce-pan  until  the  butter  is  melted  and  the  | 
properly  thickened;  taste,  and  if  wanted,  add  a  little  salt  or  sugar, 
and  serve.     When  preserved  peas  are  used,  open    the  and 

throw  the  peas  into  boiling  water,  drain  and  season  as  you  would 
fresh  ; 

PAKSXIPS. — Clean  the  parsnips,  put  them  on  the  fire  with  soup 
stock  and  let  them  boil  till  done,  then  mix  some  pounded  crao\ 
and  -  I       with  the  broth  in  which  the  parsnips  h. 

Boiled  and  let  them  boil  a  few  minutes  longer. 

BOILKD  PARSNIPS. — To  each  1-2  gallon  of  water  allow  i  he 
teaspoonful    of    salt.      Wash    the     parsnips.  them    thor- 

oughly, and  with  the  point  of  the  knife  remove  any  blac'x 
about  them,  and  should  they  be  ve:  at  the  thick  part  into 

quarters,  put  them  into  a  sauce  pan  of  boiling  water  salted  the  a! 
proportion;  boil  them  rapidly  till  tender,  which  may  be  ascertained 
by  thrusting  a  fork  in  them;  take  them  up,  drain  them  and  serve  in 
a  vegetable   d;sh.     Ti  i^le   is  usually  served  with  salt  fish, 

boiled  pork  or  boiled  beef;  when  sent  to  the  table  with  the  latter  a 
few  should  be  placed  alternately  with  carrots  around  the  dish  as  a 
garnish.  Large  parsnips  i  to  i  1-2  hours;  small  ones  1-2  to  i 
hour.  This  vegetable  is  found  wild  all  over  Europe  and  England, 


VEGKTAKJ.KS. 

and  an  excellent  wine  is  made  from  it     By  some  the  parsnip  is  con- 

•<:d  unwholesome. 

li'jii.i'jj  BKKT  ROOT. — Beet  root,  boiling  water;  when  young  and 
juicy  this  vegetable  makes  a  most  excellent  dish,  and  may  be  easily 
converted  into  pickle  by  dropping  them  into  spiced  vinegar.  They 
are  eaten  hot  or  cold ;  if  eaten  hot  melted  butter  should  be  poured 
over  them.  They  may  be  stewed  with  button  onions  or  boiled,  and 
served  with  roasted  onions.  Wash  the  beets  thoroughly,  but  do  not 
break  the  skin,  as  the  juice  will  run  out  and  spoil  their  beautiful  color 
in  boiling.  Then  put  them  into  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt  in  it 
.uul  boil  till  tender,  keeping  them  well  covered.  If  to  be  served  hot, 
remove  the  peel  quickly,  cut  the  beet  in  thick  slices  and  send  to 
table  with  melted  butter.  By.  putting  the  beet  in  cold  water  the 
skins  slip  off  easily.  For  salad,  pickles,  &c.,  let  the  root  cool,  then 
peel  and  cut  into  slices.  The  turnip  and  sugar  beet  are  of  all  col- 
ors, are  always  sweet  and  delicious,  no  matter  how  large.  They  grow 
wild  in  temperate  and  semi-tropical  climates.  Boil  small  beet  root 

1  1-2  hours;  large  2  1-2  to  3  hours. 

BOM.KU  TUHNJP  GREENS. — To  each  1-2  gallon  of  water  allow 
one  heaped  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Wash  the  greens  well  in 

2  or   3  waters,   pick  off  all  the  decayed  and  dead  leaves,  tie  them 
in  .Mi.ul  bunches  or  simply  put  them  into  plenty  of  boiling  water 
suited  in  the  above  proportion,  keep  th  -m  boiling  quick  with  the  lid 
of  the  vessels  removed,  and  when  tender  dip  them  up    with    a  per- 
forated ladle  and  then  remove  the  strings  with  which  they  are  tied 
and  serve.     Boil  for  15  minutes  or  longer.     It  is  very  good  boiled 
with  fresh  corned  pork. 

To  BOIL  YOUNG  GREENS  OR  SPROUTS. — To  each  1-2  gallon  of 
water  allow  i  heaped  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  very  small  piece  of 
soda.  Pick  away  all  the  dead  leaves  and  wash  the  greens  well 
in  cold  water,  drain  them  in  a  colander  and  put  them  into  fast 
boiling  water  with  salt  and  soda  in  the  above  proportion ;  keep 
them  boiling  quickly  with  the  lid  removed  till  tender,  and  the 
moment  they  are  done  take  them  up,  or  their  color  will  be  spoiled. 
When  well  drained,  serve.  The  great  art  in  cooking  greens  prop- 
erly, and  to  have  a  good  color,  is  to  put  them  in  plenty  of  fast- 
boiling  water  to  let  them  boil  very  quickly,  and  to  take  them  up 
the  moment  they  become  tender.  Broccoli  sprouts  from  ten  to  12 
minutes;  young  greens  10  to  12  minutes  after  they  boil. 

NASTURTIUMS. — The  bright  glowing  flowers  which  seem  to  turn  as 
they  glow  with  beauty,  while  hanging  over  the  partly  colored  rotund 
leaves  of  dapple  green  and  white,  the  pride  of  the  California  gar- 
dens, make  a  fine  relish  of  delicate  mustard  flavor  when  eaten  with 
any  kind  of  cold  meat,  and  with  loaf  bread  and  butter.  They  make 


172  VEGETABLES. 

a  handsome  garnish  and  a  beautiful  breakfast  dish.  They  should  be 
washed  before  using,  but  handled  delicately.  The  pods  also  are 
good  and  make  excellent  pickle,  and  are  a  fine  substitute  for  capers 
in  making  sauce. 

BOILED  SEA  KALE — To  each  1-2  gallon  of  water  allow  i  table- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  wash  the  kale  well  and  cut  away  the  worm-eaten 
pieces  and  tie  it  into  small  bunches,  or  throw  it  loosely  into  boiling 
water  salted  in  the  above  proportion  ;  take  it  out,  drain,  untie  the 
bunches,  or  dip  it  up  with  a  perforated  ladle  and  serve  with  plain 
butter  or  cream,  which  should  be  hot,  and  poured  over.  Sea  kale 
may  be  parboiled  and  stewed  in  brown  gravy.  It  will  then  take  about 
1-2  hour  altogether.  Boil  15  or  20  minutes.  Different  kinds  of  salads 
may  be  boiled  together. 

To  DRESS  CUCUMBKRS, — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  4  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  good  cider  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let 
the  cucumbers  be  gathered  early  in  the  morning  while  the  dew  is  on 
them,  and  then  drop  them  into  cold  water  and  kept  in  a  cool,  damp 
place,  then  have  ready  a  bowl  of  cool,  clean  water,  pare  the  cucum- 
bers and  drop  them  in  the  water ;  when  done,  draw  the  water  off 
and  put  in  a  supply  of  fresh,  then  cut  the  cucumbers  up  in  thin,  round 
slices  until  reaching  the  bitter  end,  which  should  be  rejected ;  then 
pour  cold' water  on  the  cucumbers  several  times,  then  put  them  in 
a  cold  dish,  then  pour  the  vinegar  over  them  first,  then  the  oil,  then 
pepper  and  salt  and  put  them  in  the  refrigerator  or  in  a  cool  vessel 
with  water  in  it.  This  can  be  eaten  with  anything  and  at  any  meal. 
If  the  salt  is  added  before  the  vinegar  it  will  cause  the  fruit  to  wilt. 
Cucumbers  should  have  1-3  onions  cut  up  with  them  to  have  them 
in  perfection,  and  if  they  can  be  set  on  ice  it  is  best  to  cut  them  up 
in  the  morning  in  a  bowl  of  water  and  set  them  on  the  ice  until 
about  to  be  used,  then  pour  the  water  off  and  season  with  vinegar, 
&c  The  oil  can  be  left  out  if  desired. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS. — Three  large  cucumbers,  flour,  butter,  rather 
more  than  i  pint  of  good  gravy  ;  cut  the  cucumbers  lengthwise  the 
size  of  the  dish  they  are  to  be  served  in ;  empty  them  of  their  seeds 
and  put  them  into  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt  and  let  them  sim- 
mer for  5  minutes,  then  take  them  out,  place  them  in  another  stew 
pan  with  the  gravy  and  let  them  boil  over  a  brisk  fire  until  they 
are  done.  Should  these  be  bitter  add  a  lump  of  sugar,  carefully 
dish  them,  skim  the  sauce,  pour  over  the  cucumbers  and  serve ;  cook 
20  minutes. 

CUCUMBKRS  A  LA  POULETTE. — Take  2  or  3  middle-sized  cucum- 
bers, salt,  vinegar,  i  spoonful  of  butter,  flour,  1-2  pint  of  broth,  i 
teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley,  a  lump  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Pare  and  cut  the  cucumbers  into  slices  of 


VEGETABLES.  173 

an  equal  thickness,  2  inches  in  length,  i  inch  thick,  and  let  them  re- 
main in  the  salt  and  vinegar  for  1-2  hour,  then  drain  them  in  a  cloth 
and  put  them  in  the  stew  pan  with  the  butter;  fry  them  over  a  brisk 
fire  but  do  not  brown  them,  and  then  dredge  over  them  a  little  flour. 
Add  the  broth,  skim  off  all  the  fat,  which  will  rise  to  the  surface,  and 
boil  gently  until  the  gravy  is  somewhat  reduced  ;  stir  in  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  add  the  parsley,  sugar  and  the  seasoning  of  pepper  and 
salt,  and  bring  the  whole  to  a  boiling  point  and  serve.  Or,  the  cu- 
cumber can  be  stewed  in  2  quarts  of  water  with  i  oz.  of  butter,  2 
pinches  of  salt.  Simmer  till  tender,  which  can  be  ascertained  by 
pressing  them  ;  if  done  it  will  enter  easily.  Drain  on  a  cloth,  make 
a  pint  of  poulette  sauce,  put  the  cucumber  in  it  and  serve. 

OKRA  AND  TOMATOES. — Take  an  equal  quantity  of  each,  slice  the 
okra  and  skin  the  tomatoes,  add  a  little  chopped  onion  and  a  little 
sugar,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Use  no  water,  but  stew  for 
45  minutes ;  to  each  quart  of  the  mixture  add  a  piece  of  butter  as 
large  as  a  walnut ;  and  then  put  in  the  stew  pan.  Take  care  that  it 
does  not  burn. 

STEWED  ENDIVES. — Six  heads  of  endives,  salt  and  water,  i  pint 
of  broth,  thickening  of  butter  and  flour,  i  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  a  small  lump  of  sugar.  Wash  and  free  the  endive  thor- 
oughly from  insects,  remove  the  green  part  of  the  leaves  and  put 
i:  into  boiling  water  slightly  salted.  Let  it  remain  for  10  minutes, 
take  it  out,  drain  it  till  there  is  no  water  remaining,  and  chop  it  very 
fine.  Put  it  into  the  stew  pan  with  the  broth,  add  a  little  salt  and  a 
lump  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  the  endive  is  perfectly  tender.  When 
done,  which  may  be  ascertained  by  squeezing  a  piece  between  the 
thumb  and  finger,  add  a  thickening  of  butter  and  flour,  and  lemon 
juice  ;  let  the  sauce  boil  up  and  serve. 

ENDIVE  A  LA  FRANCAISK. — Six  heads  of  endive,  i  pint  of  broth,  3 
ounces  of  fresh  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Wash  and  boil  the  endive  as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  chop  it  rather 
fine  and  put  it  into  a  stew  pan  with  the  broth ;  boil  over  a  brisk  fire 
until  the  sauce  is  all  reduced,  then  put  in  the  butter,  pepper,  salt  and 
grated  nutmeg  (the  last  must  be  very  sparingly  used);  mix  all  to- 
gether, bring  it  to  the  boiling  point  and  serve  very  hot;  10  minutes 
to  boil,  5  to  simmer  in  the  broth. 

SHALLOTS. — Remove  the  outside  skin  and  cut  off  the  green  part, 
unless  very  tender,  then  chop  up  the  root  and  a  little  of  the  green 
part,  joining  the  root,  then  put  them  in  a  frying  pan  in  cold  water  ; 
when  the  water  is  on  the  eve  of  boiling  pour  it  off,  add  a  few  slices 
of  sweet  bacon  or  pork  and  fry  them,  turning  them  often  ;  or  boil 
the  bulbs  in  salted  water  and  serve  with  melted  butter,  pepper  and  a 
little  salt.  Some  persons  eat  them  raw  with  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt, 


174  VEGETABLES. 

or  serve  with  lettuce,  radishes  and  water  cresses,  and  are  often  used 
in  the  place  of  onions. 

This  plant,  it  is  supposed,  was  brought  from  Ascalon  by  the  cru- 
saders, who  found  it  growing  wild  in  the  vicinity  of  that  ancient  and 
renowned  city.  It  is  an  excellent  condiment  in  pickles,  sauces,  soups, 
&c.,  &c.,  called  by  old  authors  the  "barren  onion." 

THE  LEEK  is  the  national  badge  of  the  Welsh,  and  is  widely  dif- 
fused over  the  earth  as  an  edible,  and  was  bewailed  with  the  cucum- 
ber in  the  journey  through  the  desert.  It  is  the  most  delicate  of  the 
onion  tribe. 

THE  LEEK. — When  used  the  skin  should  be  removed,  then  lay 
them  in  cold  water  an  hour  ;  boil  in  salted  water  until  tender ;  serve 
them  in  a  hot  covered  dish  with  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

HULLED  CORN — (F.  S.  P.) — Take  3  quarts  corn,  3  quarts  un- 
leached  wood  ashes  or  1-4  pound  potash ;  to  ashes  or  potash  add  6 
quarts  of  water,  which  boil,  then  strain  into  kettle,  put  in  the 
corn,  boil  until  skins  break  from  kernels  easily,  stirring  frequently; 
skim  out  the  corn,  rinse  it  several  times,  rubbing  thoroughly  the  last 
time;  leave  it  to  soak  in  clear  water  10  minutes,  when  rub  off  black 
chits  ;  rinse  again,  put  back  into  kettle,  cover  with  water,  boil  slowly 
till  soft;  keep  hot  water  to  add  until  boiled  tender.  When  cold  eat 
with  plain  cream  or  milk,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

BOILED  HOMINY. — (E.  L.  M.) — Boiled;  soak  i  cup  of  hominy  in 
3  cups  of  water  with  salt  to  taste.  In  the  morning  turn  it  into  a  tin 
quart  pail,  then  put  the  pail  or  tin  bucket  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
cover  tightly  and  steam  i  hour,  then  add  i  teacup  of  sweet  milk  and 
boil  15  minutes  after  stirring  the  milk  in. 

LYK  HOMINY. — To  i  gallon  of  shelled  Indian  corn  add  i  quart  of 
strong  lye  of  wood  ashes.  Boil  until  the  grains  begin  to  swell  and 
the  husks  begin  to  come  off  the  corn.  Rub  until  the  husk  is  entirely- 
removed  with  the  hands,  wash  it  well  and  boil  in  plenty  of  water  un- 
til the  grains  are  soft.  It  requires  long  boiling,  and  should  be  re- 
plenished with  hot  water  instead  of  cold.  When  nearly  done,  boil ; 
add  salt  sufficiently  to  season.  To  prevent  its  burning  when  nearly 
done  stir  it  from  the  bottom.  It  may  be  beaten  slightly  with  a 
wooden  mallet  before  using  it,  and  fry  in  a  small  quantity  of  sweet 
lard  or  butter.  Take  up  in  a  wooden  bowl  or  earthen  jar.  Both 
should  be  covered.  In  cold  weather  it  will  keep  several  days.  It  is 
one  of  the  best  of  Southern  dishes. 

FRIED  MUSH. — Make  a  moderately  thin  mush,  pour  it  thinly  over 
a  large,  flat  dish.  When  perfectly  cold  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the 
top ;  slice  it  with  a  knife  as  for  a  pie.  Have  a  pan  of  hot  lard  and 
lay  it  in  carefully,  and  when  perfectly  brown  turn  it  over  and  brown  the 
other  side.  This  excellent  dish,  or  the  mush,  may  be  poured  in  a 
pan  to  mould  it 


VEGETABLES.  175 

To  BOIL  LETTUCE. — Wash  clean,  boil  it  in  soft  salt  and  water,  then 
put  it  into  cold  water  to  cool.  Chop  it  in  the  same  manner  as  spin- 
ach, and  finish  as  spinach  with  this  exception  :  you  bind  it  with  the 
yolks  of  a  few  eggs  stirred  into  some  cream.  Endives  can  be  pre- 
pared in  the  same  way. 

CABBAGE  LETTUCE  WITH  GRAVY. — Take  8  sound  and  full  cabbage 
lettuce,  trim  off  all  the  outside  leaves,  wash  and  blanch  for  10  min- 
utes, cool  them  well,  squeeze  the  water  out,  cut  them  in  two,  lay 
them  open  on  a  dish,  and  season  them  with  3  pinches  of  salt,  tie  the 
halves  together  and  put  in  a  2-quart  stew  pan,  cover  them  with  broth 
and  add  2  gills  of  fat  pot  stock,  parsley,  thyme  and  mint  and  i  on- 
ion with  2  cloves  stuck  in  it;  place  a  round  of  paper  on  the  top  and 
simmer  for  2  hours  When  cooked  drain  on  a  cloth,  untie  and  open 
the  lettuce  again,  cut  the  stalks  out  and  fold  the  leaves  round,  giv- 
ing to  each  piece  an  oval  shape  about  3  inches  by  2,  and  dish  them 
up  in  a  circle;  reduce  to  i  1-2  pint  of  household  gravy  to  1-2  the 
quantity,  and  pour  over  the  lettuce  and  serve.  Thin  slices  of 
crumbed  bread  cut  to  the  shape  of  lettuces  and  fried  in  butter  can 
be  put  between  each  slice. 

BOILED  VEGETABLE  MARROW. — To  each  1-2  gallon  of  water  allow 
i  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  vegetable  marrow.  Have  ready  a  sauce 
pan  of  boiling  water  salted  in  the  above  proportions,  put  in  the 
marrows  after  peeling  them,  and  boil  them  until  tender,  take  them 
up  with  a  slice  and  halve,  and  should  they  be  very  large  quarter 
them  ;  dish  them  on  toast  and  send  to  table  with  them  a  tureen 
of  melted  butter,  or  in  the  place  of  this  a  small  ball  of  salt  but- 
ter. Vegetable  marrows  are  very  delicious  mashed  ;  they  should 
be  boiled,  then  drained  and  mashed  smoothly  with  a  wooden  spoon. 
Heat  them  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  and 
a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  dish  with  a  few  sippets  of  toasted  bread 
placed  around  as  a  garnish.  Young  vegetable  marrows  10  to  20 
minutes;  old  ones  1-2  to  3-4  hour  for  cooking. 

VEGETABLE  MARROWS  IN  WHITE  SAUCE. — Four  or  5  moderate- 
sized  marrows,  1-4  pint  of  white  sauce.  Pare  the  marrows,  cut  them 
into  halves  and  shape  each  half  at  the  top  in  a  point,  leaving  the 
bottom  end  flat  for  it  to  stand  upright  in  the  dish.  Boil  the  marrows 
in  salt  and  water  until  tender,  take  them  away  very  carefully  and  ar- 
range them  on  a  hot  dish;  have  ready  1-2  pint  of  white  sauce,  pour 
this  over  the  marrows  and  serve.  This  vegetable  cooks  from  15 
to  20  minutes,  and  belongs  to  the  cucumber  or  melon  tribe. 

PUMPKIN. — Open  the  pumpkin,  take  out  the  seeds,  slice  and  peel 
the  rind  off,  or  peel  before  slicing ;  do  not  scrape  the  inside,  cut  it 
in  small  pieces,  put  them  to  stew  in  a  covered  vessel  with  very  little 
water.  To  prevent  their  burning  stir  them  often  from  the  bottom. 


176  VEGETABLES. 

In  cool  weather  a  good  deal  may  be  cooked  at  a  time  and  kept  in  a 
cool,  dry  place  in  a  tin  or  an  earthen  vessel.  Fry  with  a  little  sweet 
lard  or  dress  with  butter,  a  little  sugar  and  ginger,  or  mix  with  milk  or 
cream,  eggs,  and  spices  for  making  puddings  or  custards.  They  can 
be  dried  aiso  as  apples  for  any  of  the  above  purposes,  and  are  found 
excellent.  This  will  do  in  very  cold  winters,  where  the  pumpkin 
cannot  be  kept  from  freezing. 

CASHEW  AND  DAINTY  SQUASH — Cut  them  in  two,  remove  the  seed, 
and  bake  them  with  the  rind  on.  Scrape  out  the  inside  or  eat  the 
flesh  on  the  rind ;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  or  a  little  mace,  or 
it  may  be  eaten  with  cream  or  milk  as  a  dessert. 

BAKED  PUMPKINS. — Take  a  hard-shelled  or  potato  pumpkin,  slice 
or  divide  them  in  2  or  4  pieces.  Serve  with  butter  and  salt  in  a  dish. 
Eaten  hot  or  cold. 

VERY  THIN  MASHED  POTATOES. — To  every  Ib.  of  mashed  pota- 
toes allow  1-2  pint  of  good  broth  or  stock  and  a  large  spoonful  of 
fresh  butter.  Boil  the  potatoes,  drain  them  well  and  mash  them 
smoothly  with  a  fork ;  add  the  stock  or  broth  and  rub  the  potatoes 
through  a  sieve,  put  the  mixture  into  a  sauce-pan  with  the  butter, 
stir  it  over  the  fire  until  thoroughly  hot,  and  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 
This  mixture  should  be  rather  thinner  than  mashed  potatoes,  and  is 
a  delicious  accompaniment  to  delicately  broiled  mutton  cutlets. 
Cream  or  milk  may  be  substituted  for  the  broth  when  it  is  not  at  hand. 
A  casserole  of  potatoes,  which  is  often  used  for  ragouts  instead  of 
rice,  is  made  by  mashing  potatoes  rather  thickly,  placing  them  on  a 
dish  and  making  an  opening  in  the  center.  After  having  browned 
the  potatoes  in  the  oven,  the  dish  should  be  wiped  clean  and  the 
ragout  or  fricassee  poured  in.  Half  hour  to  boil  the  potatoes ;  6  or 
7  minutes  to  warm  the  puree. 

POTATO  RISSOLE. — Mashed  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ; 
when  liked,  a  very  little  minced  parsley,  eggs  and  bread  crumbs. 
Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes  as  in  recipe  for  mashed  potatoes  ; 
add  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  when  liked  a  little 
minced  parsley.  Roll  the  potatoes  into  small  balls,  cover  them 
with  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard  for  10 
minutes ;  let  them  drain  before  the  fire,  dish  plain  and  serve. 
Ten  minutes  to  fry  rissoles. 

N.  B. — The  flavor  of  these  rissoles  may  be  very  much  in- 
creased by  adding  finely-minced  tongue  or  ham,  or  chopped  on- 
ions, when  liked,  or  minced  codfish  is  good. 

POTATOES,  as  an  esculent  for  the  human  family,  rank  next  in 
value  to  wheat,  and  it  has  been  demonstrated  that  an  acre  of 
potatoes  will  feed  double  the  number  of  persons  that  an  acre  of 
wheat  will. 


VEGETABLES. 

POTATO  SNOW. — Potatoes,  salt  and  water.  Choose  large,  white 
potatoes,  as  free  from  spots  as  possible  ;  boil  them  in  their  skins 
in  salt  and  water  until  perfectly  tender;  drain  and  dry  them 
thoroughly  by  the  fire,  and  peel  them.  Put  a  hot  dish  before 
the  fire,  rub  ihe  potatoes  through  a  coarse  sieve  on  to  this  dish. 
Do  not  touch  them  afterwards,  or  the  flakes  will  fall,  and  serve 
as  hot  as  possible.  Half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  boil 
the  potatoes. 

COLCANNON — (An  Irish  dish). — Boil  in  vessels  equal  quanti- 
ties of  potatoes  and  cabbages:  when  the  former  are  fit  to  peel  take 
off  the  j  ickets  and  mix  the  two  together  in  a  sauce-pan,  after  pour- 
ing off  the  cabbage  liquor,  then  beat  them  up  together  and  add  an 
oz.  of  lard  or  drippings  to  each  pound  of  potatoes.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  add  to  the  cabbage  an  onion  or  two. 

BAKED  POTATOES. — Choose  large  potatoes,  as  much  of  a  size  as 
possible ;  wash  them  in  lukewarm  water,  scrub  them  well,  for  the 
browned  skin  of  a  baked  potato  by  many  persons  is  considered  the 
better  part  of  it,  as  it  contains  more  of  the  genuine  flour.  Put  them 
in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  them  tor  2  hours,  turning  them  3  or  4 
times  whilst  they  are  baking.  Serve  on  a  napkin  immediately  after 
they  are  dune,  for,  if  they  are  kept  a  long  time  in  the  oven  or  stove, 
they  will  have  a  shriveled  appearance.  Potatoes  may  be  roasted 
before  the  fire  or  in  the  ashes.  Eat  them  with  cold  butter.  Large 
potatoes  in  a  hot  oven,  i  1-4  hours  to  2  hours  or  2  1-2  hours. 

How  TO  USE  COLD  POTATOES. — To  every  pound  of  cold  potatoes 
allow  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  2  of  onion  chopped  fine,  i  spoonful 
of  butter,  milk  or  cream.  Mash  the  potatoes  with  a  kitchen  fork 
until  perfectly  free  from  lumps :  stir  in  the  other  ingredients,  add 
sufficient  milk  to  moisten  them  well,  press  the  potatoes  in  a  mould 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  nicely  brown,  which  will  be 
from  20  to  30  minutes.  Bread  may  be  made  of  the  potato  by  mix- 
ing a  small  portion  of  flour  with  it.  In  Scotland,  cold  potatoes  are 
often  squeezed  up  and  mixed  with  flour  or  oat  meal,  and  an  excellent 
cake  or  sconce  obtained. 

MASHED  POTATOES. — To  every  pound  of  mashed  potatoes  allow 
i  oz.  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk  or  cream,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  the  potatoes  in  their  skins;  when  done, 
drain  them,  and  let  them  get  thoroughly  dry  before  the  fire,  by  the 
side  of  the  fire  or  in  a  cold  stove;  then  peel  them,  and  as  they  are 
peeled,  put  them  into  a  clean  sauce-pan,  and  with  a  large  fork  beat 
them  to  a  light  paste  ;  add  butter,  milk  and  salt  in  the  above  pn- 
portion,  and  stir  all  the  ingredients  well  over  the  fire  ;  when  thoroughly 
hot,  dish  them  lightly,  and  draw  the  fork  backwards  over  the  pota- 
toes to  make  the  surface  rough,  and  serve.  When  dressed  in  this 


178  VEGETABLES. 

manner,  they  may  be  browned  on  top  with  a  salamander  or  before 
the  fire.  Some  cooks  press  the  potatoes  into  moulds,  then  turn 
them  out  and  brown  them  in  the  oven  ;  this  is  a  pretty  mode  of 
serving,  but  it  makes  them  heavy.  In  whatever  way  they  are  sent 
to  table  care  must  be  taken  to  have  them  free  from  lumps.  From 
1-2  to  3-4  hour  to  boil  the  potatoes. 

MOCK  POTATOES. — Boil  a  number  of  small  potatoes,  squeeze 
them  in  a  cloth  to  dry  them,  then  peel  and  mash  them  while 
hot  to  free  them  from  lumps;  then  press  them  with  the  hands  into 
the  form  of  potatoes,  put  a  cloth  over  them  to  keep  them  from 
browning,  and  put  them  a  moment  in  a  stove  before  serving,  then 
send  them  hot — pouring  melted  butter  over  them — to  table.  No  one 
could  detect  them  from  the  true  potato ;  so  you  can  have  them  as 
large  or  as  small  and  as  uniform  as  you  may  wish.  They  are  beau- 
tiful when  served. 

CHINESE  WAY  OF  COOKING  RICE. — Take  a  clean  stew-pan  with  a 
closely-fitting  top,  then  take  a  clean  piece  of  white  muslin  large 
enough  to  cover  over  the  top  of  the  pan  and  hang  down  inside  nearly 
to,  but  not  in  contact,  with  the  bottom.  Into  the  sack  so  formed 
place  the  rice,  pour  over  2  cupfuls  water,  and  put  over  the  top  of  the 
stew-pan,  so  as  to  hold  up  the  muslin  inside,  and  fit  tightly  all  around. 
Place  the  pan  over  a  slow  fire,  and  the  steam  generated  from  the 
water  will  cook  the  rice.  Each  grain,  it  is  stated,  will  come  out  ol 
the  boiler  as  dry  and  distinct  as  if  just  taken  from  the  hull.  More 
water  may  be  poured  into  the  pan  if  necessary,  but  only  sufficient  to 
keep  up  the  steam  until  the  rice  is  cooked.  The  pan  must  not  be  so 
hot  as  to  cause  the  steam  to  throw  off  the  lid. 

SPINACH. — Pick,  wash,  blanch  and  chop  2  Ibs.  of  spinach ; 
put  in  a  3-quart  stew-pan  i  oz.  of  butter,  3-4  oz.  of  flour  and  i 
pinch  of  salt;  stir  over  the  fire  for  3  minutes;  put  in  the  spinach 
and  stir  well  for  5  minutes ;  moisten  with  i  gill  of  broth  and  stir 
2  minutes ;  then  add  2  more  gills  of  broth,  stirring  for  five  min- 
utes more.  Take  the  spinach  from  the  fire,  add  i  oz.  butter ;  stir 
until  it  is  well  melted  and  mixed  ;  put  the  spinach  on  a  dish ; 
then  take  a  slice  of  bread  1-2  inch  thick,  cut  in  i  1-2  inch  triangu- 
lar pieces;  melt  i  oz.  of  butter  in  a  small  stew-pan;  skirn  it  when 
melted;  put  in  the  pieces  of  bread,  fry  and  toss  them  until  of 
alight  brown  color;  drain  and  place  them  around  the  spinach, 
and  serve.  Milk  may  be  used  instead  of  broth,  in  the  proportion 
of  spinach.  Garnish  with  nasturtium  leaves,  flowers  and  buds. 

SPINACH  WITH  SUGAR. — The  spinach  is  prepared  as  above,  using 
milk  instead  of  broth,  and  adding  1-2  oz.  of  pounded  sugar. 

SPINACH  PLAINLY  DRESSED. — Boil  for  1-2  hour  in  clear  water ;  put 
a  small  lump  of  soda  or  saleratus  in  the  water  if  you  wish  it  a  beau- 


VEGETABLES.  I 79 

tiful  green.  Drain  it  well,  dish  and  place  on  the  top  of  it  pepper, 
butter  and  poached  eggs.  It  can  be  boiled  with  bacon. 

SPINACH. — Boil  in  the  above  manner  and  fry  toast  in  three-cor- 
nered pieces.  Stick  over  it  and  lay  poached  eggs  thereon. 

STEWED  OKRA. — Wash  according  to  the  directions  given,  cut  them 
in  round  slices  and  put  them  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  into  which  has  been  rubbed  a  teaspoonful  of  fine  flour ; 
to  each  quart  of  okra  add  1-2  cup  of  water ;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Cover  the  stew  pan  and  shake  it  now  and  then,  and  stew 
till  tender.  Serve  hot  in  a  covered  dish.  A  few  tomatoes  and  a 
little  onion  to  okra  make  a  great  improvement.  It  is  an  excellent 
sauce  for  boiled  rice. 

BAKED  SWEET  OR  IRISH  POTATOES  WHOLE. — Put  some  sticks 
across  the  bottom  of  your  oven  or  baking  pan,  wash  your  pota- 
toes thoroughly  and  lay  them  on  the  sticks,  pour  in  1-2  cup  of 
water  or  more,  then  bake  until  done. 

BAKED  IRISH  POTATOES.— Take  your  potatoes,  after  they  are 
boiled,  and  mash  them  while  hot,  then  put  sweet  cream  or  new 
milk,  pepper  and  salt,  and  some  butter  with  them,  and  an  egg  ; 
knead  the  mixture  thoroughly,  and  then  put  it  in  a  pan  with  a  piece 
of  butter  on  the  top  and  bake.  It  is  a  nice  dish.  Sweet  potatoes 
can  be  treated  in  the  same  way. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES. — Boil  them  till  1-2  done,  take  them  up 
and  let  them  cool,  then  slice  and  flour  the  pieces  both  sides  and 
drop  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  sweet  bacon  fat  and  fry  till  of  a  light 
brown,  when  dish  and  serve  hot. 

FRIED  POTATOES  WITH  BUTTER. — While  in  the  colander,  and 
just  having  been  fried,  add  to  a  portion  of  potatoes  about  i  spoon- 
ful of  butter ;  toast  till  melted  and  serve  plain  as  round  steak. 

FRIED  POTATOES  WITH  CAYENNB  PEPPER. — When  just  done  throw 
1-2  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  over  them ;  toast  and  serve  them. 

FRIED  CHIPPED  OR  RIBBONED  POTATOES. — Cut  some  potatoes 
crosswise  about  the  thickness  of  an  inch,  then  peel  them  thinly  in 
ribbons  and  fry  as  above.  They  will  require  a  little  longer  doing. 
When  they  are  crisp  take  them  out,  place  them  on  a  clean  cloth, 
and  sprinkle  them  over  with  salt,  cayenne  and  black  pepper  to  taste, 
and  serve. 

To  FRY  SWEET  POTATOES. — Wash  and  slice  them  very  thick,  put 
into  a  frying  pan,  put  butter  and  sugar  between  each  layer,  then  pour 
or  cover  with  water  and  set  on  the  fire  to  fry,  turning  them  the  usual 
way. 

NOTE — Put  butter  in  the  pan  and  let  it  get  hot  before  adding  the 
potatoes,  with  the  pan  off  the  fire. 

To  BOIL  POTATOES. — Boil  10  or  any  number  of  potatoes,  to  each 


l8o  VEGETABLES. 

1-2  gallon  of  water  allow  i  heaped  tablespoonful  of  salt.  GVOM: 
potatoes  of  equal  size  for  this:  the  Utah  potatoes  are  the  best ;  peel 
them,  take  out  ail  the  eyes  and  specks,  and  as  they  are  peeled  throw 
them  into  cold  water,  just  enough  to  cover  them,  with  salt  in  the 
above  proportion,  and  let  them  boil  gently  till  tender;  ascertain 
when  they  are  done  by  thrusting  a  fork  in  them,  and  take  up  the 
moment  they  feel  soft  through,  for  if  they  are  left  in  the  water  after- 
wards they  become  waxy  or  watery.  Drain  away  the  water,  put  the 
sauce  pan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  with  the  lid  partially  uncovered  to 
allow  the  steam  to  escape,  and  let  the  potatoes  get  thoroughly  dry, 
and  do  not  allow  them  to  get  burnt.  Their  superfluous  moisture  will 
evaporate,  and  the  potatoes,  if  of  a  good  sort,  should  be  perfectly 
mealy  and  dry.  Potatoes  vary  so  much  in  quality  and  size  that  it  is 
difficult  to  give  the  exact  time  for  boiling;  they  should  be  atten 
lively  watched  and  probed  with  a  fork  to  ascertain  when  they  are 
cooked.  Send  them  to  the  table  quickly  and  very  hot,  and  with  an 
opening  in  the  cover  of  the  dish,  that  a  portion  of  the  steam  may 
evaporate,  and  not  fall  back  on  the  potatoes.  Utah  and  moderate- 
sized  old  potatoes  15  to  20  minutes  after  the  water  boils;  large  ones 
from  1-2  hour  to  35  minutes.  Seasonable  all  the  year  round,  but  the 
new  potatoes  are  the  best.  To  keep  them  hot  after  draining  them, 
have  cloth  for  the  purpose  (either  flannel  or  cotton),  fold  it  and  put 
it  on  the  top  of  them,  keep  the  sauce  pan  lid  partially  uncovered. 
This  will  absorb  the  moisture  and  keep  them  hot  without  spoiling. 
In  Ireland  they  are  boiled  with  the  skins  on  them,  and  are  best  sent 
to  the  table  so  ;  but  they  should  be  thoroughly  washed  and  rubbed 
with  a  brush  or  coarse  cloth  before  you  cook  them. 

To  STEAM  POTATOES. — Pare  them  and  throw  them  into  cold  wa- 
ter as  they  are  peeled,  then  put  them  into  a  steamer,  place  the  steamer 
over  a  sauce  pan  of  boiling  water  and  steam  the  potatoes  from  20 
to  40  minutes,  according  to  the  size  and  sort ;  when  a  fork  goes 
easily  through  them  they  are  done,  then  take  them  up,  dish,  and 
serve  very  quickly;  20  to  40  minutes;  2  large  potatoes  to  each  per- 
son. 

To  Boiu  OLD  POTATOES. — Small  and  large  potatoes  should  not  be 
put  to  cook  at  the  same  time;  common  sense  would  suggest  this. 
Boil  old  potatoes  by  the  foregoing  receipt;  Have  a  coarse  cloth 
ready,  and  as  each  potato  is  lifted  from  the  kettle  squeeze  it  in  a  cor- 
ner of  the  cloth,  slip  the  skin  off,  and  they  will  be  dry  and  beauti- 
fully mealy.  Serve  with  melted  butter  on  a  hot  dish.  Old  pota- 
toes are  good  baked  with  their  skin  on  and  served  with  cold  but- 
ter. 

SWEET  POTATO  BALLS. — First  boil  the  potatoes,  then  carefully 
mash  the  farinaceous  part.  Boil  in  the  meantime  2  cups  of  milk, 


•     VEGETABLES.  l8l 

put  in  some  lemon  peel,  a  couple  of  lumps  of  sugar  and  a  little 
salt.  When  the  milk  boils  take  it  off  the  fire  and  add  the  pota- 
toes, so  as  to  form  a  paste,  or  rather  a  tolerably  thick  mush. 
When  cool  make  it  into  balls,  cover  these  with  crumbs  of  bread 
and  yolk  of  egg ;  fry  to  a  nice  brown  color  and  serve  up  with 
sugar  thrown  over  them. 

To  COOK  SWKET  POTATOES  OF  IRISH  POTATOES. — Steam  them 
well  and  mash  till  no  lumps  are  left  and  sweeten  with  common 
brown  sugar ;  then  bake  or  fry,  or  make  into  a  pudding. 

To  FRY  Swh.ET  POTATOES. — Pare,  slice  them,  fry  them  in  hot 
lard  like  fritters  and  sprinkle  them  with  fine  salt  as  they  are  taken 
from  the  lard 

To  BAKE  SWEET  POTATOES. — Wash  them  clean  and  wipe  them 
with  a  clean  cloth,  then  cut  off  the  ends,  put  them  in  an  oven 
or  stove  pan,  bake  slowly,  put  a  cupful  of  hot  water  over  every 
peck  of  potatoes  before  cooking  them,  put  some  cabbage  leaves 
over  the  potatoes  before  putting  on  the  lid,  if  baked  in  an  oven. 
This  will  prevent  their  burning,  then  put  fire  on  the  lid  ;  when 
done  serve  with  their  peels  on,  or  if  peeled  and  sliced  put  a  layer 
on  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  some  bits  of  butter,  a  little  sugar, 
a  little  grated  nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  then  another  layer  of  pota- 
toes, and  seasoning  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Set  it  in  the  oven  or 
stove  until  hot  and  serve.  This  is  excellent  for  a  tea  dish. 

To  ROAST  SWKKT  POTATOES. — Open  the  ashes  on  a  hot  hearth, 
sweep  it  and  put  in  the  potatoes,  then  put  on  some  cold,  then  hot 
ashes,  let  them  remain  till  done.  It  is  best  to  turn  them  over  and  re- 
cover them  for  a  moment  in  order  to  cook  them  thoroughly,  and  Irish 
potatoes  should  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

T»  STEW  SWEET  POTATOES. — Slice  them  or  cut  in  rings  1-2  inch 
thick,  then  put  in  pieces  of  tender  liver  or  pork  chops.  When 
done  take  them  all  up  together,  season  the  gravy  with  milk  or  cream, 
a  little  finely  minced  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Potatoes  are 
liked  peeled  and  roasted  under  meat.  They  should  be  cut  under 
medium  size  for  this  purpose. _ 

POTATOES  A  LA  MAITRE  DE  HOTEL, —  Potatoes,  salt  and  water;  to 
every  6  potatoes  allow  i  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  2  ounces 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  4  tablespoonfuls  of  gravy,  2 
tablespounfuls  of  lemon  juice.  Wash  the  potatoes  clean  and  boil 
them  in  salt  and  water  wiih  their  skins  on,  allowing  i  tablespoonful 
of  salt  to  every  gallon  of  water;  when  they  are  done  drain  them, 
let  them  cool,  then  peel  jand  cut  the  potatoes  into  thin  slices  ;  if 
these  are  too  thin  they  would  break  in  the  sauce.  Put  the  butter 
into  a  stew  pan  with  the  pepper,  salt,  gravy  and  parsley,  mix 
these  ingredients  well  together,  put  in  the  potatoes,  shake  them  2  or 


I 82  SALADS. 

three  times  that  they  may  be  well  covered  with  the  sauce,  and  when 
quite  hot  through  squeeze  the  lemon  juice  and  serve  ;  1-2  to  3-4  hour 
to  boil  the  potatoes;  10  minutes  to  heat  them. 

SALADS. 

CHICKEN  SALAD — (Ella). — Take  the  breasts  of  2  chickens,  2  large 
bunches  of  celery  and  4  hard-boiled  eggs,  chop  these  separately  and 
fine;  put  together  and  mix  thoroughly;  then  make  a  gravy  of  one 
tablespoonful  of  fine  beaten  mustard,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  i 
cup  of  cider  or  grape  vinegar  and  1-2  cup  of  butter,  and  pour  hot 
over  the  salad. 

LOBSTEH  AND  FISH  SALADS. — A  very  nice  and  elegant  dish  may 
be  made  with  all  kinds  of  cold  fish  and  some  kinds  of  shell  fish. 
The  following  is  for  a  small  lobster  salad,  and  will  do  for  all  fish  sal- 
ads :  Have  the  bowl  half-filled  with  any  kind  of  salad  herbs  you 
like.  Then  break  a  lobster  in  two,  open  the  tail,  extract  the  meat 
in  one  piece,  break  the  claws,  cut  the  meat  of  both  in  small 
slices  about  1-4  of  an  inch  thick;  arrange  these  tastefully  on  the 
salad  ;  take  out  all  the  soft  part  of  the  belly,  mix  it  in  a  basin 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1-2  a  one  of  pepper,  4  of  vinegar  and 
4  of  oil ;  stir  it  well  together  and  pour  on  the  salad  ;  then  cover  it 
with  hard  eggs  cut  in  slices,  a  few  slices  of  cucumber,  and,  to 
vary,  a  few  capers  and  some  fillets  of  anchovy. 

SWEET  BREAD  SALAD — (Mrs.  D.  C.  B.). — Four  hard-boiled  and 
one  raw  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i 
of  pepper,  2  of  sugar,  2  of  mixed  mustard,  1-2  teacupful  of  vin- 
egar, i  calf's  sweet  bread  and  2  heads  of  lettuce.  For  dressing 
mash  the  yolks  and  mix  the  oils  thoroughly,  adding  the  vinegar 
last.  Boil  the  sweet  bread  thoroughly  until  tender,  pick  it  up  in 
small  pieces;  break  the  lettuce  also  in  small  pieces,  and  then 
put  in  a  dish  alternate  layers  of  lettuce,  sweet  bread  and  dress- 
ing. Use  the  whites  of  the  eggs  sliced  over  the  top. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. — One  well  beaten  egg,  i  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  sugar,  1-2  teaspoonful  mustard,  1-4  of  a  teaspoonful  pep- 
per, and  2-3  of  a  cup  of  vinegar.  Beat  all  well  together,  boil  in 
a  bowl  over  the  steam  of  a  teakettle  until  quite  thick,  then  pour 
the  mixture  over  a  small  head  of  cabbage  chopped  fine.  If  too 
thick,  add  cold  vinegar.  To  be  eaten  cold. 

NOTE. — If  liked,  chopped  lettuce  can  be  used  instead  of  cabbage, 
only  the  vinegar  should  be  perfectly  cold  when  poured  over  the  let- 
tuce, which  should  be  setting  in  a  vessel  of  cold  water  to  keep  it 
crisp. 

RUSSIAN  SALAD. — Cook  some  fillets  of  quails  and  chickens  in  a 


SALADS.  183 

frying-pan  with  a  little  butter;  drain  and  put  them  on  a  plate  to  cool. 
Cook  some  thin  slices  salmon  in  the  same  way.  Wash  and  trim  8 
very  small  king  fish  and  cut  them  into  small  slices  together  with  the 
quails,  chickens  and  salmon.  Cut  some  carrots  and  turnips  with  a 
small,  round  vegetable  scoop ;  blanch  and  cook  them  in  water  with 
a  little  salt  added  ;  boil  some  asparagus  peas  and  some  French  beans 
cut  in  diamond-shaped  pieces  ;  drain  all  above  the  vegetables,  and 
when  cold,  put  them  in  a  basin  with  the  fish,  chicken  and  quail, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  oil,  vinegar,  a  little  cayenne  and  some 
chopped  rovicote  or  celery.  Prepare  a^Dorder  of  white  jelly,  gar- 
rash  with  olives  and  small  Indian  pickles ;  when  set,  turn  the  bor- 
der out  on  a  dish ;  add  some  partly-melted  aspic  jelly  to  the 
salad  in  the  basin;  mix  and  dish  it  up  in  layers  inside  the  bor- 
der; pour  a  little  jelly  over  each  layer,  and  let  it  set  completely 
before  adding  another;  continue  the  layers,  diminishing  each  one 
until  the  whole  comes  to  a  point,  and  serve. 

IRISH  POTATO  SALAD — (Mrs.  E.'s  recipe). — Take  cold  Irish  po- 
tatoes that  were  peeled  hot,  cut  them  in  thin,  round  slices,  boil  some 
eggs  hard,  mash  the  yolks  hot  in  vinegar  and  season  it  with  mustard 
or  celery  seed  and  rolled  with  a  pinch  of  sugar ;  put  them  in  a  salad 
dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  them  and  garnish  with  the  white  of  an 
egg  cut  in  rings.  It  is  excellent  for  a  Sunday  dinner,  particularly 
with  cold  roast  beef. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD. — To  100  cucumbers  put  a  quarter  of  a  peck 
of  small  onions,  pare  the  cucumbers  and  slice  them  thin,  also  the 
onions.  Cover  with  salt  and  set  in  the  sun  for  6  hours,  then  rinse 
clean  with  water  several  times,  letting  them  remain  in  the  last 
water  an  hour.  For  the  dressing  take  a  box  of  the  best  mustard, 
put  into  it  a  little  salt  and  pour  olive  oil  enough  to  stir  it  well, 
then  vinegar  enough  to  moisten  and  more  oil,  and  then  vinegar 
until  it  is  thin  enough  to  pour  smoothly.  Fill  the  jars  with  cucum- 
bers and  pour  on  dressing  enough  to  completely  cover  them  ;  seal 
the  jars  tight. 

MIXTURE  FOR  SALAD — (Mrs  Randolph.) — Take  a  large  mealy 
Irish  potato  that  has  been  boiled,  squeeze  it  through  a  cloth,  and 
while  hot  mash  it  fine,  then  add  it  to  the  mixture  already  prepared 
of  the  raw  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  pre- 
pared mustard,  4  or  5  spoonfuls  of  sweet  oil,  the  same  of  vinegar, 
some  pepper  and  salt,  adding  a  little  sugar.  Stir  all  to  a  perfect 
cream,  then  pour  over  lettuce  cabbage  or  any  of  the  salad  vegeta- 
bles, cut  very  fine,  or  rather  coarse,  if  liked.  Shrimps,  herring,  fish, 
chicken  or  veal  may  be  chopped  and  added.  Then  with  a  wooden 
fork  stir  up  all  lightly  and  serve.  If  liked,  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  up 
coarsely  may  be  added  as  garnish  on  the  top. 


I 84  SALADS. 

LFMON  SAUCE. — Cut  thin  slices  of  lemon  into  very  small  dice  and 
put  them  in  melted  butter ;  give  it  one  boil,  and  pour  it  over  boiled 
fowls. 

CALIFORNIA  SALAD  DRESSING. — To  every  2  hard-boiled  eggs  take 
the  yolk  of  i  raw,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  i  of  cider  vinegar,  salt 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  i  teaspoonful  of  white 
ground  mustard,  white  hard  lettuce  or  cabbage,  a  little  sugar,  2 
or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  ;  mash  the  eggs  and  rub  with  the  raw 
yolk,  then  add  oil  and  beat  up  till  it  is  like  smooth  cream ;  beat 
while  each  ingredient  is  carefully  added  i  at  a  time. 

SALAD,  RED  HERRING  (Polish.) — Take  potatoes  boiled  and  peeled, 
pickled  cucumbers,  peeled  apples,  roast  veal  and  salt  herrings  that 
have  been  soaked  in  water,  from  which  the  skin  and  bones  have 
been  taken,  some  French  mustard,  a  little  sugar,  ground  white  pep- 
per, plenty  of  sweet  oil  and  best  white  vinegar.  Cut  into  thin  slices 
(or  dice  or  cube  shaped),  mix  the  whole  together.  If  sour  enough 
and  too  dry  thin  with  a  little  water,  boiled,  or  wine,  and  a  more  deli- 
cious salad  can  not  be  prepared,  if  the  required  amount  of  oil  \viih 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  is  made  into  a  sauce  mayonaise.  It  is  not  easy  to 
give  the  exact  quantity  of  each  ingredient,  but  the  mixture  will  be 
very  near  right  by  taking  the  proportion  of  10  herrings  to  30  pota- 
toes, and  of  each  of  the  other  ingredients  a  quantity  equal  to  that 
of  the  herrings,  and  on  each  a  quantity  of  salad  it  would  take  nearly 
a  pint  of  sweet  oil.  Finely  sliced  onions  and  beets  may  be  added, 
so  also  the  potatoes  may  be  left  out  and  substituted  by  roast  veal. 
Fill  in  dishes  and  dress  with  thin  slices  of  smoked  salmon,  parsley, 
beets,  pickles,  &c. 

SALMON  SALAD. — Cut  some  salmon  into  scallops  i  1-2  inch  in  di- 
ameter and  1-2  inch  thick,  put  them  in  a  buttered  frying  pan,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  them  ;  when  done  drain  the  scallops 
and  put  them  in  a  dish  to  cool ;  then  season  them  slightly  with  salt, 
pepper,  oil  and  vinegar;  pour  a  1-4  inch  layer  of  white  aspic  jelly 
in  a  plain  bordered  mould  with  some  olives,  cabbage  lettuces  cut  in 
quarters,  and  hard  boiled  eggs,  arranging  the  whole  tastefully ;  fill  up 
the  mould  with  aspic  jelly,  and  when  the  latter  is  set  turn  the  border 
out  on  to  a  dish.  Dish  the  salmon  over  some  partly  melted  aspic 
jelly  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  vinegar  and  chopped  parsley  or  cel- 
ery, and  when  this  first  row  is  set  fill  up  the  center  with  some  of  the 
unshapely  pieces,  and  dish  another  and  reversed  circle  of  salmon 
scollops  on  the  fish  ;  pour  over  some  more  seasoned  jelly,  and  con- 
tinue reversing  and  diminishing  the  circles  until  they  come  to  a 
point;  pour  over  some  more  jelly;  put  i  hard-boiled  egg  with  a 
cabbage  lettuce  heart  stuck  in  it  on  the  top  and  serve. 


SAUCES  AND  CATSUP.  185 


SAUCES  AND  CATSUP. 

BLACK  BUTTER. — Put  2  spoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  stew  pan,  set  it 
on  the  fire  till  it  acquires  a  brownish  color,  throw  in  about  20  pars- 
ley leaves,  i  gill  of  vinegar,  1-2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  large  pinch  of 
pepper;  boil  together  i  minute.  It  is  excellent  with  boiled  fish. 

MAITRE  D' HOTEL  BUTTER. — Mix  well  together  upon  a  plate  four 
ounces  of  fresh  sweet  butter,  i  good  tablespoonful  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, the  juice  of  2  lemons,  a  large  pinch  of  salt,  a  small  pinch  of  pep- 
per ;  set  in  a  cool  place  for  use. 

WINE  SAUCE. — One-fourth  pint  of  claret  or  port  wine,  the  same 
quantity  of  plain  unflavored  mutton  gravy,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
currant  jelly  ;  let  it  just  boil  up  and  send  it  to  the  table  in  a  sauce 
pan. 

SAUCE  FOR  SALAD  DRESSING. — The  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4  oz.  brown 
sugar ;  beat  well  together,  add  gradually  2  ounces  salad  oil,  beating 
until  well  mixed,  then  add  2  ounces  salt,  2  ounces  mustard,  1-2  oz. 
black  pepper  and  1-2  pint  of  strong  cider  vinegar.  This  mixture 
surpasses  all  others  by  adding  to  salad,  and  will  keep  good  fora  long 
time. 

OUDE  SAUCE  (Kennicut.) —  One  pint  green  tomatoes,  6  peppers, 
not  large,  4  onions,  chop  together,  add  i  cup  of  salt  and  let  it  stand 
over  night ;  in  the  morning  drain  off  the  water  and  add  i  cup  of  su- 
gar, i  cup  of  horseradish,  i  tablespoonful  of  ground  cloves,  the  same 
of  ground  cinnamon  ;  cover  with  vinegar  and  then  stew  all  gently. 

CAPKR  SAUCE  WITH  VINEGAR. — Take  2  spoonfuls  of  capers  and 
a  little  vinegar,  mince  the  1-2  and  stir  the  whole  of  them  into  1-2 
pint  of  melted  butter  or  strong  thickened  gravy.  To  prevent  the 
butter  from  oiling  stir  the  sauce  for  some  time.  When  wanted  very 
poignant,  lemon  juice  may  be  added  to  this  simple  and  tasteful 
sauce. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  FOR  HOT  OR  COLD  MEATS. — Put  tomatoes,  when 
perfectly  ripe,  into  an  earthen  jar,  set  it  in  an  oven;  when  the  juice 
is  drawn  till  they  are  perfectly  soft,  then  separate  the  skins  from  the 
pulp  and  mix  these  with  Chili  vinegar  and  a  few  cloves  of  garlic 
pounded,  which  must  both  be  proportioned  to  the  quantity  of  fruit. 
Add  powdered  ginger  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Some  white  wine  vin- 
egar and  cayenne  may  be  used  instead  of  the  Chili  vinegar.  Keep 
the  mixture  in  small  wide-mouthed  bottles  well  corked  and  in  a  dry 
place. 

SAUCE  FOR  A  TURKEY  OR  ANY  FOWL. — Boil  some  veal  gravy, 
pepper  and  salt,  the  juice  of  an  orange  and  lemon,  and  a  quarter 
as  much  port  wine  as  gravy.  Pour  it  on  a  dish. 


l86  SAUCES.    • 

GOOSEBERRY  SAUCE. — Clip  away  the  tops  and  tails  of  a  break- 
fast cupful  of  small  green  gooseberries,  scald,  drain  and  stir  into 
melted  butter  with  a  little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar;  a  little  ginger  may 
be  added,  or  the  scalded  gooseberries  may  be  served  mashed  with 
sugar  and  seasoning. 

SAUCE  OF  CHERRIES  OR  DAMSONS  FOR  MEATS. — To  every  Ib.  of 
fruit  allow  1-2  Ib  of  brown  sugar  and  i  pint  of  strong  vinegar  to 
every  7  Ibs.  of  fruit.  Put  all  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  simmer 
slowly  until  done.  Take  the  fruit  up  and  lay  it  on  a  large  dish.  Let 
the  syrup  continue  to  boil  until  thick,  adding  some  cloves  and  cin- 
namon. Put  the  fruit  in  stone  jars  and  pour  it  over  the  jars  while 
hot. 

EGO  SAUCE. — Boil  a  couple  of  eggs  for  1-4  of  an  hour.  Dip  them 
in  cold  water  and  roll  them  quickly  under  your  hand  to  make  the 
shells  come  off  easily.  Cut  the  yolks  by  themselves  into  little  1-2 
inch  cubes,  cut  the  white  of  i  egg  in  the  same  manner.  Stir  first 
the  white  and  the  yolk  into  thinnish  butter  in  the  tureen ;  or  boil 
the  eggs  hard  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  then  put  them  into 
melted  uutter. 

LIVER  AND  LEMON  SAUCE. — Wash  the  liver  of  the  fowl  quite 
clean  and  boil  it  for  5  minutes,  then  pound  it  ui  a  mortar  with  a 
spoonful  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  has  been  boiled  and  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Take  the  thin  outer  rind  of  a  lemon  and  mince  1-2  tea- 
spoonful  very  fine  ;  remove  the  white  inner  skin  of  the  lemon  ;  cut 
it  into  thin  slices,  take  out  the  seed,  and  then  cut  the  whole  into 
small  squares  ;  mix  the  lemon,  the  rind  and  the  pounded  liver  into 
1-2  pint  of  good  melted  butter  or  white  sauce,  and  serve  with  the 
fowl. 

FISH  SAUCE  WITHOUT  BUTTER. — Simmer  very  gently  t  gill  of 
cider  vinegar  and  i  cupful  of  water  (which  must  be  soft),  with  i  on- 
ion, 1-2  handful  of  horseradish,  4  cloves,  2  blades  of  mace  and  1-2 
teaspoonful  of  black  pepper.  When  the  onion  is  quite  tender,  chip 
it  with  2  small  fish  and  set  the  whole  on  the  fire  to  boil  for  a  few 
minutes  with  a  spoonful  of  catsup.  In  the  meantime  have  ready 
and  well  beaten  the  yolks  of  3  fresh  eggs;  strain  them,  mix  the 
liquor  by  degrees  with  them,  and  when  all  are  mixed  set  the  sauce- 
pan over  a  gentle  fire,  keep  a  basin  in  one  hand,  into  which  toss  the 
sauce  to  and  fro  and  shake  the  sauce-pan  over  the  fire  that  the  eggs 
may  not  curdle.  Don't  boil  them,  only  let  the  sauce  be  hot  enough 
to  give  it  the  thickness  of  melted  butter. 

OLD  CURRANT  SAUCE  FOR  VENISON. — Boil  an  ounce  of  dried  cur- 
rants in  1-2  pint  of  water  for  a  few  minutes;  then  add  a  small  tea- 
cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  6  cloves,  a  glass  of  port  wine  and  a  bit  of 
butter.  Stir  it  until  the  whole  is  smooth. 


SAUCES.  187 

APPLE  SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  GOOSE. — Pare,  core  and  slice  three 
large,  sound  apples,  put  them  into  an  earthenware  jar  with  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  water,  cover  the  jar  and  put  it  into  a  slow  oven 
for  3-4  of  an  hour,  then  add  1-2  teaspoonful  sugar  and  1-2  oz. 
butter;  beat  with  a  fork  to  a  light  pulp.  Serve  in  a  tureen. 

TOMATO  CATSUP — (Aunt  H.'s  recipe). — Take  a  peck  ot  ripe  to- 
matoes; cut  them  up  tolerably  fine,  put  them  in  a  preserving 
kettle  and  boil  them  very  soft;  then  mash  them  well  and  strain 
through  a  sieve.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  black 
pepper,  pounded  cloves  and  mustard  seed  to  suit  the  taste.  Let 
it  boil  until  1-2  has  boiled  away.  When  cold,  add  a  teacupful 
of  cider  vinegar  to  each  bottle  before  sealing  it  up,  as  you  would 
canned  fruit. 

A  VERY  CHOICE  CATSUP. — Take  1-2  Ib.  of  anchovies  or  very 
small  fish,  wash  them  in  1-2  pint  of  the  purest  cider  or  wine 
vinegar;  mash  them,  bones  and  all,  put  them  into  a  1-2  pint  of 
of  the  best  vinegar  and  8  tablespoonfuls  of  claret,  and  let  it  boil 
for  15  minutes.  Then  strain  the  vinegar  to  it  and  put  in  1-2  a 
pint  more  of  pure  vinegar  or  white  wine  ;  5  or  6  cloves  of  shal- 
lots, i  tablespoonful  of  powdered  white  ginger,  1-2  a  one  of  com- 
mon pepper,  1-2  one  of  California  pepper — all  crushed — i  nut- 
meg bruised,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  few  blades  of  mace ; 
put  the  whole  into  a  stew-pan  and  let  it  boil  1-2  an  hour,  then 
pour  it  off.  When  perfectly  cold  bottle  it.  The  bottles  should 
be  entirely  dry.  Cork  well  and  tie  them  down  closely. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE. — Wash  and  pick  a  large  breakfast  cupful  of 
small  button  mushrooms ;  take  off  the  leathery  skin  ;  stew  them  in 
vea!  gravy  with  pepper,  cayenne,  mace,  nutmeg,  salt  and  a  piece  of 
butter  roiled  in  a  good  deal  of  flour  or  arrowroot  to  thicken,  as  the 
abounding  gravy  of  the  mushrooms  makes  them  take  a  good  deal  of 
thickening.  Stew  until  tender,  stirring  them  now  and  then,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  the  fowls.  Those  who  like  a  high  relish  of 
mushrooms  may  have  a  spoonful  of  gravy  drawn  by  salting  a  few 
for  a  night,  or  a  little  mushroom  powder. 

ORANGE  SAUCE  FOR  GAME. — Peel  1-2  an  orange,  removing  the 
pith,  cut  it  into  slices,  then  into  pellets,  put  them  on  in  a  gill  of  wa- 
ter and  boil  for  two  minutes,  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  throwing  away 
the  watt r,  place  in  a  stew-pan  two  spoonfuls  of  broth,  when  boiling 
add  the  orange,  and  a  little  sugar.  Simmer  ten  minutes,  skim  and 
serve;  the  juice  of  1-2  orange,  is  a  great  improvement.  Also  a  little 
cinnamon  may  be  added. 


1 88  PICKLES. 


PICKLES. 

Small  cabbages  should  be  cut  in  2  or  4  parts  and  larger  ones 
into  more  divisions.  Boil  them  in  salt  and  water  until  they  be- 
come soft  enough  to  be  penetrated  with  a  straw,  lay  them  on  a 
cloth  to  drain,  then  lay  them  on  a  flat,  wide  dish  and  let  them 
dry,  then  lay  them  in  clear  water  for  24  hours,  then  put  them  in 
the  prepared  liquid,  cut  in  the  branches  of  cauliflower  and  pre- 
pare them  in  the  same  way.  Cucumbers  and  other  vegetables 
may  be  pickled  in  the  manner  given  in  recipes. 

Pickles  may  be  purchased  at  as  low  rates  as  they  can  usually 
be  made  at  home,  and  even  less,  perhaps,  yet  all  housekeepers 
who  have  time  and  the  usual  conveniences  had  better  prepare 
them  for  their  own  domestic  use,  as  they  can  select  and  know 
that  they  have  the  purest  vinegars,  which  should  always  be  used, 
as  it  does  not  injure  the  stomach  nor  impede  digestion,  as  patent 
vinegars  do.  The  fruit  and  vegetables  selected  should  be  firm, 
sound  and  not  over-ripe.  Many  of  the  spices  should  be  used  spar- 
ingly, as  they  stimulate  the  appetite  and  by  insensible  degrees  de- 
stroy the  tone  of  the  stomach.  Red  peppers  are  opposite  in  their 
qualities  to  black  and  white  peppers.  The  two  last  are  powerful 
astringents,  and  consequently  impede  digestion.  The  white  pepper 
is  the  best  quality  of  black  pepper,  and  is  prepared  by  soaking  it  in 
lime  and  water  and  rubbing  it  between  the  hands  until  the  dark  coats 
come  off.  It  is  less  acrid  than  the  black,  and  more  highly  prized  as 
a  seasoning.  It  is  better  to  buy  the  grains  whole  and  pound  them 
at  home,  and  both  kinds  are  often  adulterated.  Black  pepper  of  a 
good  quality  can  be  tested  by  rubbing  the  corns  between  the  hands. 
If  they  are  good  they  will  not  be  crushed.  Dyspeptics  should  not 
use  black  pepper;  it  may  afford  a  temporary  relief  at  the  expense 
of  permanent  mischief.  It  is  good  as  a  condiment  in  malarious  dis- 
tricts, which  engender  endermic  diseases,  and  serves  as  an  antidote. 
Nutmeg  should  be  used  cautiously  by  persons  of  a  paralytic  or  ap- 
oplectic predispositions.  They  are  astringent  in  their  properties. 
The  superior  quality  is  firm,  hard,  and  has  a  strong  aromatic  odor 
with  a  pungent  and  acrid  flavor.  Ginger  as  a  condiment  is  more 
wholesome;  is  anti-spasmodic  and  carminative  in  its  properties,  and 
is  excellent  in  allaying  thirst.  Allspice  is  a  mild  and  innocent  spice, 
combining  an  agreeable  variety  of  flavors. 

Horseradish  should  be  fresh  when  used,  as  its  volatile  oil  escapes 
so  rapidly.  It  can  be  preserved  by  burying  it  in  sand.  By  leaving 
with  the  top  about  i  or  2  inches  of  the  .root  it  will  grow  by  planting 


PICKLES.  .  189 

it  in  a  moist  place,  and  should  be  planted  on  small  or  large  streams 
where  the  moisture  will  cause  it  to  grow  and  be  always  ready  for 
use. 

Mustard,  either  powdered  or  not,  is  good  for  the  digestive  or- 
gans. 

Lemon  rind  or  peel,  when  dried,  used  moderately,  is  a  good 
digestive  for  weak  and  delicate  persons.  Lemon  juice  was  con- 
sidered by  the  ancients  as  an  antidote  for  poison,  even  of  the  bite  of 
serpents,  and  is  now  essential  for  culinary  purposes,  but  as  antiscor- 
butic for  seafaring  persons  it  is  invaluable.  It  can  be  preserved  in 
bottles  for  a  long  time  by  covering  it  with  a  thin  stratum  of  oil.  It 
is  sometimes  crystallized  and  called  salts  of  lemon  or  citric  acid 
crystallized.  A  delightful  syrup  can  be  made  of  it  with  water,  rum 
and  sugar  to  taste,  or  lemonade  by  adding  it  to  water  and  sugar. 
No  one  should  go  to  sea  without  it.  It  is  cooling,  grateful  and  a 
sovereign  remedy  in  kidney  diseases. 

Pickles  of  flowers,  herbs,  roots  and  vegetables  in  vinegar  were 
held  in  high  estimation  by  the  ancient  Greeks  and  Romans,  and  pre- 
served by  them  with  the  greatest  care. 

Every  housekeeper  should  have  all  of  her  jars  labelled  and  a 
wooden  spoon  always  at  hand. 

A  good  housekeeper  will  know  how  and  when  to  utilize  and  econ- 
omize in  the  preparation  of  every  dish. 

PICKLED  PEARS. — Twenty  pounds  of  peeled  fruit,  7  Ibs.  of  sugar, 
i  quart  of  vinegar ;  boil  the  sugar  and  vinegar  together,  put  a  cou- 
ple of  cloves  in  each  pear  and  put  them  into  the  sugar  and  vinegar 
with  water  enough  to  nearly  cover  them.  When  cooked  enough  re- 
uiove  the  pears  to  stone  jars,  and  after  boiling  the  pickle  for  15  min- 
utes longer  pour  it  over  them.  Examine  in  a  week,  and  if  the  pickle 
is  not  sufficiently  concentrated  remove  and  boil  down  again. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES. — Make  a  paste  of  pounded  white  mustard, 
some  salad  oil  and  some  vinegar ;  then  add  to  these  some  powdered 
cinnamon,  white  and  cayenne  pepper,  white  ginger,  celery  seed  and 
horse  radish,  all  fine,  i  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar,  and  put  them 
all  into  a  stone  jar  2-3  full  of  vinegar,  then  set  the  jar  into  a  kettle 
of  cold  water  on  the  fire,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  continue  it  for  2  or 
three  hours,  skimming  it  now  and  then.  As  soon  as  removed  from 
the  fire  stir  in  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  fork  some  tameric  and  white 
mustard.  Fill  the  jars  with  small  cucumbers,  gherkins,  onions,  caul- 
iflower, hard  white  cabbage  tops,  small,  sliced  cucumbers,  young 
parsnips  and  tender  corn.  The  cinnamon  can  be  omitted  if  liked,  as  it 
makes  the  color  darker. 

NOTE — When  the  vegetables  are  used  others  can  be  added,  or  you 
may  take  dwarf  cabbages,  quarter  them,  then  simmer  them  in  brine 


190  .  PICKLES. 

till  you  can  pierce  them  with  a  straw,  then  dry  them  on  a  cloth  for 
twenty-four  hours  to  absorb  the  moisture,  then  drop  them  into  the 
liquid. 

RKD  CURKANT  PICKLES. — Pick  them  before  they  are  quite  ripe 
and  put  them  in  a  well  covered  jar  filled  with  a  brine  of  salt  and 
water.  When  the  pickles  begin  to  ferment  change  the  brine ; 
then  lay  them  for  a  night  in  clear  water,  then  make  a  spiced  liquor 
with  sugar  and  spices  boiled  in  the  vinegar,  as  in  cherry  pickles  ; 
when  cold  pour  over  your  currants  and  close  tightly. 

BAKBERRY  PICKLES. — Gather  full,  fine  clusters  of  the  berries  be- 
'fore  ripe,  pick  away  the  dead  leaves  and  detective  berries  and  pre- 
serve them  as  red  currants. 

SWEKT  PICKLE — (Peaches,  Damsons  or  Tomatoes.) — Mrs.  W., 
Va. — Peel  your  tomatoes  or  peaches,  take  the  stones  from  them  or 
not,  cut  off  the  stem  end  (a  very  little  of  which  will  make  the  pickle 
bitter;  even  one  will  spoil  ajar  of  pickles),  if  damsons,  or  plums  or. 
grapes,  prick  them  with  a  fine  needle  and  allow  to  each  pound  of 
fruit  a  cupful  (1-2  pint)  of  vinegar,  1-2  pound  of  sugar,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cloves,  a  few  blades  of  mace  and  cinnamon.  J'ut  your  fruit 
in  a  jar  which  can  be  covered  closely,  then  put  the  vinegar,  sugar 
and  spices  on  to  boil,  then  pour  all  over  the  fruit  and  cover  closely. 
Let  remain  24  hours  ;  repeat  the  scalding  in  the  same  vinegar  and 
let  it  remain  on  the  fruit  another  24  hours,  then  put  the  whole  on  to- 
gether and  boil  until  the  damsons,  plums  or  grapes  burst  open,  or 
the  peaches  or  tomatoes  are  easily  pierced  with  a  straw  and  the 
syrup  thickens  a  little. 

OLD  DOMINION  CHOW  CHOW. — Take  2  gallons  of  nice  green  to- 
matoes, add  4  good  sized  onions,  6  or  7  peppers  with  the  seeds  taken 
out,  chop  together  and  boil  3  minutes  in  5  quarts  of  good  cider  vin- 
egar, throw  this  vinegar  away  after  straining,  then  to  i  gallon  of  cider 
vinegar  when  scalding  hot  add  3  cups  sugar,  one  of  mixed  mus- 
tard, one  table-spoonful  of  cloves,  i  of  allspice,  2  of  cinnamon,  3 
or  4  blades*  of  mace,  i  cupful  of  chopped  horseradish,  and  3 
spoonfuls  of  salad  oil ;  pour  hot  over  the  tomatoes. 

CHOW  CHOW  (splendid.) — One-half  gallon  sliced  green  tomatoes, 
3  cups  of  chopped  onions,  i  pint  of  chopped  green  peppers,  i  cup 
of  white  mustard  seeds,  i  cup  of  coriander  seeds,  all  chopped  fine, 
2-3  cup  of  salt.  Cover  over  in  a  jar  with  cold  fruit  vinegar.  The 
longer  you  keep  it  the  better  it  is. 

PICKLED  EGGS. — Boil  a  dozen  eggs  until  done  and  quite  hard, 
then  put  them  in  a  vessel  of  cold  water  in  order  to  remove  the  shells 
with  ease  and  prevent  them  being  broken ;  then  have  a  stone  or 
earthen  jar  just  large  enough  to  hold  them  within  an  inch  or  two 
of  the  top.  Put  them  in  the  jar  carefully,  prepare  a  liquor  of 


PICKLES. 

the  purest  and  best  vinegar  (white  wine),  say  a  quart  or  more, 
by  boiling  gently,  spice  with  4  blades  of  mace,  3-4  of  an  ounce 
of  black  or  white  pepper,  3-4  of  an  oz.  of  allspice,  i  oz.  of  white 
ginger,  3-4  oz.  mustard  (white)  seed,  and  4  cloves  of  garlic. 
When  the  spiced  liquor  has  simmered  for  3  minutes,  take  it  up 
and  pour  slowly  into  the  jar,  observing  that  the  eggs  are  fully 
covered  with  the  liquor.  When  cold,  stop  it  tightly  for  use ; 
which  will  be  in  the  course  of  a  month,  or  five  weeks.  When 
traveling,  they  are  nice  with  cold  viands  as  a  lunch,  affording  a 
fine  relish ;  when  quartered  they  are  a  nice  garnish  to  dishes  of  cold 
meats  of  any  kind. 

SWEET  PICKLED  CABBAGE. — Cut  the  cabbage  fine  and  scald  it  in  a 
brine  made  of  i  cup  of  salt  and  j  quart  of  water;  let  it  remain  a 
day  and  night ;  squeeze  it  out  and  put  in  good  cider  vinegar  with 

1  oz.  of  cinnamon,  i  oz.  of  mace,  i  oz.  nutmeg,  i  1-2  Ibs.  sugar  and 
1-2  gallon  cider  vinegar. 

ONION  PICKLES. — Take  1-2  Ib.  of  crushed  ginger,  1-2  of  white 
mustard,  1-2  Ib.  salt,  4  oz.  white  mustard  seed,  whole,  2  oz.  black  or 
white  pepper  ground,  1-2  oz.  cayenne  pepper,  1-4  Ib.  of  tameric  to 

2  gallons  of  good  cider  or  pear  vinegar.     Then  have  ready  a  large 
jar  with  a  tightly  fitted  top,  put  in  your  onions,  sliced  cucumbers  (or 
cut  an  inch  and  a   half  long),  cauliflowers,   celery  seeds,  gherkins, 
green   tomatoes,  green  radish  pods,  nasturtiums,  martinas  and  small 
green  chilis.     Reserve  enough  vinegar  to   mix  the  various  powders 
to  a  well-worked  paste,  so  that  no  lumps  remain,  then  pour  the  vin- 
egar into  the  jar  over  the  fruit,  then    add  the  thoroughly  prepared 
spice  mixture.     Keep  the  jar  in  a  warm  place  and  stir  up  well  every 
morning  tor    a  month  with   a    wooden   spoon ;  or  the  liquor  can  be 
prepared  and  kept  as  directed,  and  the  different  vegetables  can  be 
added  at  pleasure,  as  they  come  in  season,  gathered  on  a  dry  morn- 
ing, wiping  them  with  a  dry  cloth  to   remove  the  dust  and  moisture. 
The  cauliflower  must  be  divided  into  small  bunches.     When  the  jars 
are  full,  and  it  is  no  longer  needful  to  stir  them,  close  the   jar  firmly 
with  a  bladder  or  waxed  cloth,  over   the   mouth.     Pickles    prepared 
in  this  way  will  be  good  at  the  end  of  the  year.     While  it  is  im- 
portant to  stir  the  pickles  every  morning,  it  is  best  to  keep  a  wooden 
spoon  always  convenient. 

SWEET  PICKLED  RIPE  CUCUMBERS. — Take  ripe  cucumbers  before 
they  grow  soft  or  have  an  unpleasant  smell,  slice  lengthwise,  so  as 
to  be  clear  of  seeds ;  scald  for  half  a  day  in  salt  water ;  pour  that 
off  and  rinse  in  warm  water.  Take  a  pint  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of 
good  cider  vinegar,  flavored  with  spice,  clove,  cinnamon,  ginger  and 
allspice  to  the  taste ;  scald  the  fruit  once  a  day  for  several  consecu- 
tive days  by  pouring  the  boiling  liquor  over  it.  Be  careful  not  to  put 
them  in  an  iron  vessel,  which  will  turn  them  dark. 


192  PICKLES. 

GREEN  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. — Make  a  brine  by  putting  2  pints  of 
rock  salt  into  2  gallons  of  boiling  water  and  pour  it  over  the  cucum- 
bers ;  cover  tight  to  keep  in  the  steam,  and  let  them  remain  all  night 
and  part  of  a  day ;  make  a  second  brine  as  above,  and  let  them  re- 
main the  same  length  of  time  ;  then  scald  and  skim  the  brine,  as  it 
will  answer  for  the  third  time,  and  let  them  remain  in  it,  as  above  ; 
then  rinse  and  wipe  them  dry,  and  add  boiling  hot  vinegar;  throw 
in  a  lump  of  alum  as  large  as  a  nutmeg  to  every  two  gallons  of 
pickles,  and  you  will  have  a  fine,  hard  and  green  pickle.  Add  spices 
if  you  like  and  keep  the  pickles  under  the  vinegar.  A  weight  on  the 
top  of  the  cover,  which  keeps  the  pickles  under,  has  a  tendency  to 
collect  the  scum,  which  may  rise. 

SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLES. — Take  5  onions,  5  green  peppers  or 
chilis,  sprinkle  them  over  with  a  teacup  of  salt  and  let  them  stand 
during  a  night,  then  drain  the  water  from  them,  adding  to  them  one 
cup  or  more  of  sugar  (if  desired),  i  cup  of  grated  horseradish,  i  1-2 
tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  i  spoonful  of  cloves,  3-4  of  allspice,  i 
tablespoonful  of  white  ginger ;  more  than  cover  with  strong  cider 
vinegar  and  cook  until  tender,  with  2  gallons  of  sliced  green  toma- 
toes. Put  in  bottles. 

SWEET  GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES  — Peel  and  slice  2  gallons  of 
green  tomatoes,  3  gallons  of  whole  mustard  seed,  5  tablespoonfuls 
black  pepper,  2  of  ground  cinnamon,  i  spoonful  whole  cloves,  i  of 
brown  sugar  and  3  gills  of  good  vinegar.  Boil  until  quite  tender. 

PICKLED  CABBAGE. — Chop  up,  as  for  slaw,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
let  stand  for  a  day  and  night ;  drain  on  a  cloth  to  absorb  the  moisture. 
Put  it  into  a  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  white  mustard  between  and 
fill  with  cold  vinegar. 

FAVORITE  PICKLES. — One  quart  raw  cabbage  chopped  fine,  i  of 
boiled  beets  chopped  fine,  2  cups  sugar,  tablespoonful  salt,  i  tea- 
spoonful  black  pepper,  1-4  teaspoonful  red  pepper  and  teacup  of 
grated  horseradish ;  cover  with  cold  vinegar — cover  very  closely,  to 
exclude  the  air  entirely. 

CAULIFLOWER  PICKLES. — Take  firm  cauliflowers  before  they  are 
quite  ripe  and  cutaway  the  bark  of  the  stems  and  all  the  green  leaves. 
Scald  them  for  four  minutes  in  a  pan  of  boiling  salt  brine,  and  then 
drain  and  dry  thoroughly,  which  will  require  at  least  24  hours  ;  when 
dry  pull  them  into  perfectly-sized  branches,  cutting  the  stalks  smoothly 
and  pack  them  in  jars  with  some  pickle  liquor,  as  directed  for  yel- 
low pickled  cabbage,  or  color  them  with  red  beets  in  the  liquor. 


YEAST.  193 


YEAST. 

YEAST  POWDERS,  OUR  MOTHER'S. — Baking  soda  6  ounces,  cream 
of  tartar  8  ounces ;  be  particular  that  the  materials  are  perfectly 
pure  and  dry.  Then  mix  thoroughly  and  keep  dry  in  a  well  corked 
bottle  or  tightly  covered  box.  You  need  nothing  further. 

YEAST  WITHOUT  HOPS. — Boil  i  pound  of  flour,  4  ounces  brown 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  in  2  gallons  of  water  for  one  hour.  When 
lukewarm  bottle  and  cork  closely.  In  24  hours  you  can  use  it ; 
wetting  your  flour  with  it. 

To  REMOVE  THE  BITTER  QUALITY  FROM  YEAST. — Bake  a  small 
piece  of  bread  quite  black  and  drop  into  the  yeast ;  or,  if  it  is 
very  bitter  put  a  small  quantity  of  bran  into  a  sieve  (small)  and 
strain  the  yeast  through  ;  or  pour  some  cold  water  over  the  yeast 
some  time  before  you  require  it ;  the  yeast  will  sink  and  the  bitter 
remain  in  the  water,  which  pour  off.  This  will  apply  to  both  leav- 
en and  liquid  yeast.  These  remedies  have  never  been  known  to 
fail. 

To  CHOOSE  HOPS. — Put  them  between  your  fingers ;  good  hops 
will  feel  gelatinous  and  have  a  fragrant  smell  and  develop  a  fine  yel- 
low dust. 

YEAST  THAT  WILL  NOT  SOUR. — (Mrs.  Adams.) — Boil  2  ounces  of 
hops  in  2  quarts  of  water,  put  in  a  jar  i  cup  of  brown  sugar,  strain 
the  hops  into  the  jar,  add  i  cup  of  flour  stirred  smooth,  let  it  stand 
in  a  warm  place  till  it  ferments,  stir  in  6  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes 
and  i  cup  of  salt. 

To  MAKE  YEAST  FOR  BREAD. — One  and  one-half  ounces  of  hops, 
3  quarts  of  water,  i  pound  of  bruised  malt,  1-2  pint  of  yeast.  Boil 
the  hops  in  the  water  for  20  minutes,  let  it  stand  for  about  5  min- 
utes, then  add  it  to  i  pound  of  bruised  malt  prepared  as  for  brewing. 
LeUhe  mixture  stand  covered  till  about  lukewarm,  then  put  in  not 
quite  1-2  pint  of  yeast;  keep  it  warm  and  let  it  work  3  or  4  hours, 
then  put  it  into  small  1-2  pint  bottles  (ginger  beer  bottles  are  the 
best  for  the  purpose),  cork  them  well  and  tie  them  down.  The 
yeast  is  now  ready  for  use ;  it  will  keep  good  for  a  few  weeks, 
and  one  bottle  will  be  found  sufficient  for  18  pounds  of  flour. 
When  required  for  use  boil  3  pounds  of  potatoes  with  salt,  mash 
them  in  the  same  water  (they  should  have  been  peeled)  in  which 
they  were  boiled,  and  rub  them  through  a  colander;  stir  in  about 
1-2  Ib.  of  flour,  then  put  in  the  yeast,  pour  it  into  a  hole  in  the  middle 
of  the  flour  and  let  it  stand  warm  on  the  hearth  all  night,  and  in  the 
morning  let  it  be  quite  warm  when  kneaded.  The  bottles  of  yeast 
require  very  careful  opening,  as  it  is  generally  exceedingly  ripe ;  20 


194  YEAST. 

minutes  to  boil  the  hops  and  water,  the  yeast  to  work  4  or  5  hours; 
1-2  pint  sufficient  for  18  pounds  of  flour. 

KIRKKESTHAM  YEAST. — Two  ounces  of  hops,  4  quarts  of  water, 
1-2  pound  of  flour,  1-2  pint  of  yeast.  Boil  the  hops  and  water  for 
20  minutes,  strain  and  mix  with  the  liquid  1-2  pound  of  flour  and 
not  quite  1-2  pint  of  yeast.  Bottle  it  up  and  tie  the  corks  down. 
When  wanted  for  use  boil  potatoes  according  to  the  quantity  of  bread 
to  be  made  (about  3  pounds  are  sufficient  for  about  a  peck  of  flour) ; 
wash  them  and  add  to  them  1-2  pound  of  flour  and  mix  about  1-2 
pint  of  the  yeast  with  them ;  let  the  mixture  stand  all  day  and  lay 
the  bread  to  rise  the  night  before  it  is  wanted.  Twenty  minutes  to 
boil  the  hops  and  water ;  1-2  pint  of  this  yeast  is  sufficient  for  a  peck 
of  flour  or  rather  more. 

To  EXTRACT  BITTER  FROM  YEAST. — Beat  it  up  with  a  white  of  an 
egg,  add  a  double  quantity  of  water,  beat  all  well  together,  cover  it, 
let  it  stand  all  night  and  pour  off  the  water,  when  it  will  be  sweet. 
One  egg  is  sufficient  for  a  quart  of  yeast. 

Miss  BETSY'S  YEAST. — At  4  o'clock  a.  m.  stir  a  cup  of  flour  in  i 
pint  of  water  luke  warm ;  a  little  salt ;  set  it  by  the  fire  to  rise  and 
stir  it  often ;  when  it  is  very  light  it  is  ready  for  use,  and  will  make 
2  loaves  of  bread  very  light  for  tea. 

BAKER'S  YEAST. — Put  i  dozen  large  potatoes  and  a  large  handful 
of  hops  in  a  pan  to  boil ;  don't  peal  the  potatoes ;  wash  them  clean ; 
when  they  are  soft  put  i  pint  of  flour  in  a  jar,  put  the  potatoes  in 
the  flour,  and  then  the  hops  boiling  hot,  mash  them  all  together  and 
roll  in  a  ball.  Put  aside  until  cold,  and  the  water  the  potatoes  were 
boiled  in.  When  both  are  cold  work  them  together  and  let  it 
rise  to  the  top  and  then  fall.  After  it  falls  it  is  ready  for  use  ;  stir  it 
well  and  strain  it.  Does  not  increase  by  rising. 

To  MAKE  GOOD  YEAST. — Four  good-sized  potatoes,  and  boil  in  i 
gallon  of  water  together  with  as  much  hops  as  you  can  grasp  in  your 
hand,  placing  the  hops  in  a  thin  cloth  and  tie  them  up.  When  boiled 
take  the  potatoes  and  mash  them ;  add  i  cup  salt,  i  cup  sugar;  mix 
thoroughly,  adding  the  hot  water  in  which  the  potatoes  and  hops  were 
boiled ;  let  it  stand  until  cool,  then  add  i  pint  of  baker's  yeast,  let 
it  stand  until  fermented.  Put  in  a  jug  and  cork  tight  and  keep  cool, 
When  the  jug  is  nearly  empty  it  can  be  filled  again  by  this  process, 
thus  keeping  a  constant  supply.  One  pint  of  the  yeast  is  sufficient 
for  a  baking  for  a  moderate  sized  family. 

BAKING  POWDERS. — Tartaric  acid  4  1-2  ounces,  arrow  root  or  nee 
flour  5  ounces  ;  mix. 

FAMILY  YEAST. — Thicken  2  quarts  of  water  with  fine  flour  (three 
teaspoonfuls),boil  1-2  hour,  sweeten  with  1-2  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
when  near  cold  put  into  it  4  spoonfuls  of  fresh  yeast  in  a  jug,  shake 


YKAST.  195 

it  well  together  and  let  it  stand  i  day  to  ferment  near  the  fire  with- 
out being  covered.  There  will  be  a  thin  liquor  on  the  top,  which 
must  be  poured  off.  Shake  the  remainder  and  cork  it  up  for  use. 
Take  always  4  spoonfuls  of  the  old  to  ferment  the  next  quantity, 
keeping  it  always  in  succession ;  2  pounds  loaf  will  require  about 
a  gill. 

ANOTHER  WAY. — Boil  i  pound  of  potatoes  to  a  mash;  when  1-2 
cold  add  i  cup  of  yeast  and  mix  it  well.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in 
2  or  3  hours  and  keep  well.  Use  double  the  quantity  of  this  to  what 
you  do  of  beer  yeast.  To  take  off  the  bitter  of  yeast  put  beer  into 
a  sieve  and  pour  it  through,  having  first  mixed  a  little  warm  water 
with  it. 

DOMESTIC  YEAST. — Have  ready  in  a  kettle  over  a  fire  2  quarts 
of  boiling  water,  throw  in  a  large  handful  of  hops  as  fresh  as  possi- 
ble, either  ripe  or  green,  (or  even  the  green  leaves  will  do,)  and  let 
the  water  continue  to  boil  with  the  hops  in  it  for  25  minutes  or  more, 
then  have  in  a  bowl  or  pan  6  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Strain  the  liquor 
through  a  cloth  from  the  hops  into  another  bowl  and  pour  it  hot  over 
the  flour  (about  1-2  of  it.)  Squeeze  the  bag  well,  stir  the  hop  liquor 
and  the  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  or  batter,  let  the  other  half  of  the 
liquor  remain  till  cool,  then  pour  it  gradually  to  the  rest,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Then  take  1-2  pint  of  baker's  or  brewer's  yeast,  let  it  be 
fresh  and  strong,  stir  this  yeast  into  the  hop  water  and  flour,  pour  it 
directly  into  your  jug  slightly  corked  till  it  ceases  to  ferment,  which 
should  be  i  hour,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  Cork  tightly  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place.  If  kept  in  a  bottle  it  will  improve  by  adding  a  raisin 
into  each  bottle  before  you  pour  in  your  yeast.  Into  a  stone  jug 
put  6  or  7.  In  preparing  new  yeast,  if  sour,  old  yeast  should  never 
be  used.  All  yeast  is  better  and  more  powerful  for  being  fresh.  In 
the  country  yeast  should  be  made  often.  In  towns  and  cities  it 
can  be  obtained  every  day.  Sweet  cakes,  rusks,  &c.,  require  stronger 
and  fresher  yeast  than  bread,  otherwise  the  sugar  will  impede  their 
rising.  The  foregoing  recipe  is  invaluable  in  the  making  of  home- 
made bread.  Before  making  new  yeast  the  old  should  be  removed, 
and  the  bottles  and  jugs  purified  by  washing  and  leaving  a  little  earth 
or  salsoda  in  them  for  a  while,  and  then  thoroughly  rinsed. 

PEACH  LEAF  YEAST. — Take  3  large  leaves  and  3  medium  sized 
Irish  potatoes,  boil  them  in  2  quarts  of  water ;  when  the  potatoes  are 
done  take  out  the  leaves  and  throw  them  away ;  peel  the  potatoes 
and  mash  them  up  while  hot  in  i  pint  of  flour,  adding  sufficient  water 
to  make  it  a  paste,  then  pour  on  the  hot  peach  leaf  tea  and  scald  for 
5  minutes ;  add  1-2  cupful  of  old  yeast  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in 
a  few  hours. 

YEAST  MADE  Of  THE  LEAVES  OF  THE  BASKET  WILLOW. — In  the 
same  way  that  hops  is  made;  is  better  than  when  made  of  hops. 


196  YEAST. 

BREAD,  WILLOW. — The  leaves  of  our  common  basket  willow  makes 
an  excellent  yeast  or  leaven  for  light  bread  when  treated  as  hops. 
It  mixes  much  quicker  than  hops  ;  in  1-2  the  time  ;  imparts  none  of 
that  disagreeable  hop  flavor  which  is  so  objectionable  to  many.  In- 
deed, it  makes  better  bread  every  way.  The  willow  is  a  most  health- 
ful tonic.  Is  used  as  potent  against  ague  in  malarious  districts. 
Simply  use  a  very  weak  tea  made  of  these  leaves  to  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water. 

YEAST  THAT  WILL  KEEP  3  MONTHS. — (N.  Y.  T.) — In  the  hottest 
weather  and  much  longer  in  cold,  and  never  become  sour.  The 
flour  should  be  thoroughly  dried  by  the  fire  ;  stirred  up  often  before 
made  into  a  sponge,  an  important  item  of  which  ma^ny  farmer's 
wives  are  ignorant.  The  sponge  or  dough  should  be  set  at  noon, 
mixed  at  night  and  moulded  next  morning  ;  stirring  the  sponge  after 
it  begins  to  ferment  makes  it  white. 

RECIPE. — One  quart  of  hops  put  lightly  in  a  cup,  i  quart  of  pota- 
toes peeled  and  sliced,  i  pint  of  corn  browned  like  coffee ;  put  the 
hops  in  the  small  bag,  add  3  quarts  of  boiling  water,  boil  2  hours. 
Strain  through  a  colander,  add  i  cup  of  white  sugar,  1-2  cup  of  salt 
and  water  to  make  5  quarts  of  the  mixture.  When  luke  warm  add 
i  pint  of  the  same  kind  of  yeast  to  ferment  it.  If  that  is  not  at  hand, 
use  potato  yeast  without  meal  or  flour,  as  that  might  sour  after  a 
while;  1-2  a  cup  is  enough  for  a  baking,  large  and  small.  The  yeast 
must  be  made  in  tin  or  porcelain.  Set  it  about  24  hours  in  a  warm 
room,  then  bottle  or  cork  tightly  and  keep  in  a  cool  room;  1-2  the 
ingredients  will  do  for  a  small  family. 

MRS.  GEN.  R.  E.  LEE'S  YEAST. — Boil  6  Irish  potatoes  and  ahand- 
fbl  of  hops  in  2  quarts  of  water,  when  cooked  wash  the  potatoes, 
strain  the  hop  tea  and  mix  with  the  potatoes,  thicken  with  1-2  pint 
of  flour,  return  all  to  the  kettle  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point ;  add  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  set  the  proportion  with  1-2  pint  of 
yeast.  This  will  keep  good  one  week  in  a  cool  place. 

BUTTERMILK  YEAST. — One  quart  of  buttermilk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
sugar,  i  quart  of  meal,  1-2  cupful  of  hop  yeast,  set  to  rise  8  hours, 
then  stir  in  i  quart  of  corn  meal,  make  it  out  in  thin  cakes  and  dry 
them  in  a  cool,  airy  place.  Use  one  quart  of  flour  to  each  cake. 

MRS.  JANSON'S  YEAST. — Mash  3  moderate  sized  Irish  potatoes, 
boiled  with  the  skins  on  with  a  good  pinch  of  hops,  when  done 
mash  with  the  skins  on,  then  put  back  into  the  liquid  in  which 
they  were  boiled  with  2  cups  of  flour,  then  pour  it  through  a 
sieve,  still  stirring  it  over  the  flour,  and  let  it  stand  till  luke  warm, 
then  stir  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar,  i  heaped  tablespoon- 
ful of  salt,  add  a  little  brewer's  or  domestic  yeast,  as  convenient. 
Let  stand  over  night  to  ferment,  place  in  a  jar  kept  closely  cov- 
ered ;  allow  4  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast  to  one  pound  of  flour. 


YKAST.  I 97 

IRISH  POTATO  YEAST. — (Mrs.  R.  S.  Robertson.) — Grate  a  well 
mashed,  peeled  and  large  Irish  potato  or  2  medium  sized  ones, 
put  the  grated  potato  into  a  tin  or  porcelain  pan,  pour  over  boil- 
ing water,  stirring  while  doing  so  till  it  becomes  a  thick  starch, 
and  also  adding  at  the  same  time  more  than  half  a  cupful  of  loaf 
or  white  sugar,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt ;  boil  it  till  done  like 
starch.  When  cold  bottle  and  stop  it  well.  In  making  up  the  bread 
allow  i  cup  of  yeast  to  every  4  cups  of  flour ;  work  the  dough  well, 
set  to  rise  the  same  night  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morning  work  it 
well  and  put  it  in  a  slightly  greased  pan  to  rise  again  in  an  oven  just 
warm,  not  hot,  as  that  would  ruin  the  bread  and  make  it  sour,  then 
bake  it  slowly.  If  you  make  up  the  bread  with  milk  instead  of  wa- 
ter and  with  a  little  butter  or  sweet  lard,  it  makes  it  much  better. 
Either  way  it  is  sweet  and  wholesome. 

N.  B.  If  the  yeast  sours  sweeten  it  with  sugar  and  never  with 
soda,  as  that  spoils  the  bread,  Always  save  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
the  old  yeast  to  put  into  the  new.  It  is  better  to  make  the  yeast  of- 
ten, and  not  use  it  when  it  gets  too  stale. 

POTATO  YEAST  — (Contributed  in  the  great  American  Dessert  by 
Mrs.  Belle  Greg'g,  Cole  County,  111.) — Six  common  sized  Irish  pota- 
toes peeled  and  boiled  till  quite  soft,  leave  water  enough  to  cover 
them,  mash  very  fine  while  hot,  then  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make 
a  batter,  set  off  to  cool,  till  just  blood  warm,  then  add  i  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  then  add  i  cup  of  hop 
yeast.  Set  in  a  cool  place;  for  4  loaves  use  i  spoonful. 

MILK  YEAST. — To  i  pint  of  milk  allow  i  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mix  well,  keep  it  luke-warm  by  a  fire  ;  in  i 
hour  it  will  be  fit  for  use ;  rise  twice  as  much  as  common  yeast.  If 
sour  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  pint  of  yeast  when  used.  If  it 
foams  lively  it  will  raise  the  bread,  if  not,  throw  it  away.  Never  keep 
yeast  in  tin.  This  is  made  for  immediate  use.  It  is  convenient  for 
loaf  bread  or  biscuits  when  one  wishes  to  make  them  up  in  haste. 

QUICK  YEAST  MADE  WITH  MILK. — Take  a  cupful  of  milk  and  2 
large  spoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  them  together;  set  it  near  the  fire 
and  let  it  rise  i  hour.  This  quantity  will  make  t  gallon  of  flour  in 
good  bread. 

MAGIC  YEAST. — Twelve  hours  before  you  wish  to  use  it  stir  one 
tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar,  2  of  flour  and  3  of  water  together 
and  add  a  small  piece  of  leaven  or  i  spoonful  of  hop  yeast  to  make 
it  rise.  Use  2  tablespoonfuls  of  this  to  i  quart  of  flour,  let  the  yeast 
remain  in  a  jar,  and  before  it  is  all  used  add  the  flour,  sugar  and  wa- 
ter, as  at  first,  and  you  will  always  have  nice,  fresh  yeast  that  makes 
beautiful  bread.  Keep  2  jars,  and  occasionally  change  them,  so  you 
can  have  it  sweet  and  fresh. 


198  YEAST. 

FLOUR  YEAST. — Mix  1-2  pint  of  flour  with  i  pint  of  cold  water, 
put  it  into  a  sauce  pan  and  make  it  into  a  thick  paste,  stirring  it  all 
the  time,  then  pour  it  into  a  bowl  and  stir  in  i  cup  of  hop  yeast, 
dessert  spoonful  of  sugar  and  i  of  salt,  and  set  it  to  rise. 

MRS.  S.'s  YEAST. — Monday  a.  m.  boil  2  ounces  of  good  hops 
.in  a  gallon  of  water  for  1-2  hour.  Strain  it  and  let  the  liquor 
cool  down  to  the  warmth  of  new  milk,  then  put  in  a  handful  of 
salt  and  1-2  Ib.  of  sugar,  stir  i  Ib  of  family  flour  with  a  little  of 
the  hop  tea  and  let  it  stand  till  Wednesday,  boil  3  Ibs.  of  Irish 
potatoes,  mash  them  fine  and  stir  in.  The  next  day  strain  it  and 
put  it  in  jugs  or  bottles,  keep  in  a  cool  place  and  it  will  be  good  for 
2  months.  The  last  is  generally  the  best.  Always  keep  in  a  warm 
place.  When  it  is  made  stir  often. 

HOP  YEAST. — The  night  before  boil  a  large  handful  of  hops  in  2 
quarts  of  water  until  it  is  a  very  strong  tea,  strain  it  in  a  jar  with  a 
pint  of  flour  and  stir  it  till  very  smooth :  when  cool  put  in  a  gill  of 
yeast  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  till  light,  and  then  stop  tightly.  Al- 
ways make  fresh  yeast  before  all  you  have  is  used,  so  you  can  have 
some  to  set  the  new  with. 

SIMPLE  YEAST. — Stir  a  pint  of  flour  in  aquart  of  luke-warm  water, 
put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  i  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  one  of 
yeast;  put  it  to  rise,  ail  when  well  risen  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

DRY  YEAST  CAKES. — (Mrs.  Mary  Parker.) — Make  a  strong  tea 
of  hops  and  thicken  with  flour ;  when  fermented  stir  in  as  much 
corn  meal  as  yon  can  make  into  cakes  as  large  and  thick  as  a  small 
cracker  and  dry  in  a  dish  in  the  shade;  when  used  dissolve  1-3  of 
i  in  a  half  cup  of  water  for  i  quart  of  flour. 

NOTE — This  yeast  or  leaven  will  keep  for  6  months. 

YEAST  CAKES. — Take  some  hop  yeast  when  fresh  and  thicken  it 
with  meal  or  flour  till  very  stiff,  roll  them  out  and  cut  in  thin,  small 
cakes  and  dry  in  the  sun,  soak  them  in  milk  an  hour  before  you  want 
to  make  bread  ;  use  i  cake  the  size  of  the  top  of  a*  common  tumbler 
to  i  quart  of  flour.  Be  careful  in  winter  not  to  let  them  freeze,  but 
keep  them  in  a  paper  bag  in  a  dry  place. 

YEAST  FOR  CAKES  OF  LEAVEN. — Put  a  large  handful  of  hops  in  a 
pot  with  3  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  3  Irish  potatoes,  let  it  boil 
tolerably  strong  to  1-2  gallon,  strain  it  boiling  hot  over  1-2  gallon  of 
sifted  flour,  stir  it  well,  and  when  cool  add  1-2  pint  of  yeast  or  one 
yeast  cake,  and  put  it  in  a  bucket  to  rise  ;  when  light  and  porous, 
before  it  begins  to  fall,  make  it  in  small,  thin  cakes  with  corn  meal, 
put  them  on  a  board  to  dry,  put  them  in  a  thin  bag  and  hang  them 
in  a  cool  and  very  dry  place.  In  warm  weather  use  i  of  the  cakes 
to  i  quart  of  flour  for  bread,  rolls  or  buckwheat  cakes.  These  can 
be  used,  and  are  less  troublesome  and  more  economical,  as  they 
will  keep  for  several  months. 


BREAD-MAKING.  199 


BREAD-MAKING. 

The  following  observations  on  bread-making  are  extracted  from  a 
valuable  work  on  that  subject  and  may  be  found  very  useful  to 
housekeepers : 

The  first  thing  required  for  making  wholesome  bread  is  the  ut- 
most cleanliness;  the  next  is  the  soundness  and  sweetness  of  all 
ingredients  used  for  it,  and,  in  addition  to  these,  there  must  be  at- 
tention and  care  through  the  whole  process. 

An  almost  certain  way  of  spoiling  dough  is  to  leave  it  half-made 
and  allow  it  to  become  cold  before  it  is  finished.  The  other  most 
common  causes  of  failure  are  using  yeast  no  longer  sweet,  which  has 
been  frozen,  or  has  had  hot  liquor  poured  over  it. 

Too  small  a  proportion  of  yeast  or  insufficient  time  allowed  for 
dough  to  rise  will  cause  the  bread  to  be  heavy.  Heavy  bread  will 
also  most  likely  be  the  result  of  making  dough  very  hard  and  letting 
it  become  quite  cold,  particularly  in  winter. 

If  either  the  sponge  or  the  dough  be  permitted  to  overwork  Itself, 
that  is  to  say,  if  the  mixing  and  kneading  be  neglected  when  it  has 
reached  the  proper  point  for  either,  sour  bread  will  probably  be  the 
consequence  in  warm  weather  and  bad  bread  in  any  weather.  The 
goodness  will  also  be  endangered  by  placing  it  so  near  a  fire  or 
stove  as  to  make  any  part  of  it  hot,  instead  of  maintaining  the  gentle 
and  equal  degree  of  heat  required  for  its  due  fermentation. 

Milk  which  is  not  perfectly  sweet  will  not  only  injure  the  flavor  of 
the  bread,  but,  in  sultry  weather,  will  often  cause  it  to  be  quite  un- 
eatable, yet,  if  milk  or  butter  be  fresh  and  good,  its  quality  will  ma- 
terially improve.  But  the  acidity  of  the  milk  can  be  neutralized  with 
a  little  soda,  and  the  quality  of  the  butter  sweetened  by  boiling  it 
very  gently  with  sippets  of  bread  in  it,  which  will  absorb  its  rancid- 
ity and  leave  the  butter  sweet. 

To  keep  bread  sweet  and  fresh,  as  soon  as  it  is  cold  it  should  be 
placed  in  a  clean  earthen  jar,  with  a  cover  on  it ;  this  pan  should  be 
placed  a  little  distance  from  the  ground  to  allow  a  current  of  air  to 
pass  underneath  it.  Some  prefer  it  to  be  kept  in  a  box  lined  with 
zinc;  other  persons,  on  clean  wooden  shelves  without  being  cov- 
ered, so  that  the  crust  may  not  soften.  Stale  bread  may  be  freshened 
by  warming  it  through  in  a  gently  heated  oven.  Stale  pastry,  cakes, 
etc.,  may  also  be  improved  by  this  method. 


2QO  •          BRF.AD-MAKING. 

The  utensils  required  for  making  bread,  on  a  moderate  scale,  are 
a  kneading  trough  or  pan  sufficiently  large  so  that  the  dough  may 
be  kneaded  freely  without  throwing  the  flour  over  the  edges,  and 
also  for  its  rising,  a  hair  sieve  for  straining  yeast  and  one  or  two 
strong  spoons. 

Yeast  must  always  be  good  of  its  kind  and  in  a  fitting  state  to 
produce  ready  and  proper  fermentation.  Yeast  of  strong  beer  or 
ale  produces  more  effect  than  that  of  milder  kinds,  and  the  fresher 
the  yeast,  the  smaller  the  quantity  will  be  required  to  raise  the  dough. 

As  a  general  rule,  the  oven  for  baking  bread  should  be  rather 
quick,  and  the  heat  so  regulated  as  to  penetrate  the  dough  without 
hardening  the  outside.  The  oven  door  should  not  be  opened  after 
the  bread  is  put  in  until, the  dough  is  set  or  has  become  firm,  as  the 
cool  air  admitted  will  have  an  unfavorable  effect  on  it. 

Stoves  bake  bread  admirably,  as  they  can  always  be  brought  to 
the  required  temperature  when  it  is  higher  than  is  needed  by  leaving 
the  doors  open  for  a  time. 

A  FEW  HINTS  ON  THE  MAKING  AND  BAKING  OF 

CAKES. 

The  currants  to  be  used  should  be  carefully  washed,  picked,  dried 
in  a  cloth,  and  then  closely  examined  to  see  that  no  pieces  of  grit  or 
stone  are  left  among  them.  They  should  then  be  laid  in  a  dish  be- 
fore the  fire  or  stove  to  become  thoroughly  dry,  as  the  cakes  will  be 
liable  to  be  heavy  if  added  when  they  are  damp  to  the  other  ingre- 
dients. The  butter  and  sugar  should  be  beaten  together  for  a  very 
long  time,  until  the  mass  has  the  appearance  and  consistency  of  ice 
cream.  The  eggs  should  be  broken  into  a  cup — the  whites  and  yolks 
separately.  They  should  always  be  strained.  Breaking  the  eggs 
thus,  the  bad  ones  may  be  easily  rejected  without  spoiling  the  others, 
and  consequently  there  will  be  no  waste.  Beat  or  whisk  the  yolks 
until  all  the  large  bubbles  disappear,  then  stir  it  into  the  butter  and 
sugar,  when  the  flour  or  the  crumbs  should  next  be  stirred  in  well  and 
thoroughly,  (bread  crumbs  are  better  than  flour  as  they  are  already 
cooked  and  are  more  digestible)  and  if  milk  is  used  it  should  then  be 
added.  As  eggs  are  used  instead  of  yeast,  they  should  be  thoroughly 
whisked.  When  they  are  thick  enough  to  carry  the  drop  that  falls  from 
the  whisk  they  are  sufficiently  beaten  ;  then  stir  in  the  currants  and 
add  the  beaten  eggs,  stirring  while  adding,  and  next  the  flouror  bread 
crumbs,  and  lastly  of  all,  the  baking  powder,  if  used.  Stir  this  mix- 
ture well  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  (some  housekeepers  rub 
the  butter  into  the  flour,  then  add  the  sugar,  currants  and  alspice,) 


HINTS    ON    MAKING    AND    BAKING    CAKES.  2OI 

warm  the  milk,  stir  in  it  the  yeast,  and  mix  the  whole  into  a  dough, 
and  after  kueading  it  well  put  it  into  buttered  tins,  or  better,  in  tins 
dredged  with  fine  dry  bread  crumbs,  after  wiping  the  butter  off, 
then  let  it  rise  for  nearly  an  hour  before  baking.  The  loaf  sugar 
should  be  well  pounded,  and  then  sifted  through  a  fine  sieve.  Less 
butter  and  eggs  are  required  for  cakes  when  yeast  is  mixed  with  the 
other  ingredients. 

Good  butter  should  always  be  used  in  making  cakes.  It  saves 
much  time  and  labor  to  warm,  but  not  melt  it,  before  beating,  if 
beaten  to  a  cream. 

The  heat  of  the  oven  is  of  great  importance,  especially  for  large 
cakes.  If  the  heat  of  the  oven  is  not  tolerably  quick,  the  batter 
will  not  rise.  If  the  oven  is  too  fierce,  and  there  is  any  danger  of 
the  cake  burning  or  catching,  put  apiece  of  clean  paper  over  the 
top.  Paper  that  has  been  printed  on  or  newspaper  should  never  be 
used  for  this  purpose. 

To  prevent  bread  or  cake  or  anything  from  burning  at  the  bottom 
of  the  stove,  set  the  cake-pan  on  a  stove-top  or  on  pieces  of  iron  to 
prevent  its  touching  the  bottom  of  the  stove,  or  set  a  vessel  or  pan 
of  water  on  the  top  grate  and  nothing  will  burn  when  the  water  is  in 
it  as  the  steam  prevents  it;  when  sufficiently  done  and  you  wish  to 
brown  it,  you  can  remove  the  pan  of  water. 

To  know  when  a  cake  is  sufficiently  baked,  pierce  it  with  a  straw 
or  plunge  a  clean  knife  into  the  middle  of  it ;  draw  it  quickly  out, 
and  if  it  looks  the  least  sticky  put  the  cake  back  and  close  the  oven 
until  it  is  done. 

Cakes  should  be  kept  in  closed  tin  canisters  or  glass  jars  in  a  dry 
place,  or  it  the  cake  be  not  iced  put  it  in  a  barrel  of  brown  sugar 
and  place  some  of  the  sugar  over  it.  Cakes  made  with  yeast  do 
not  keep  so  light  as  though  made  without  it. 

Panification  or  bread-making  consists  of  adding  one-half  or  little 
more  of  water  to  the  flour  and  yeast  or  some  leaven  matter  made  of 
malt  and  hops.  But  in  different  countries  different  fermenting  mat- 
ter or  leaven  is  used.  In  the  West  Indies  the  refuse  of  the  distilla- 
tion of  rum  or  "dunder,''  and  in  the  East  Indies  the  liquor  which 
flows  by  making  art  incision  in  the  palm  tree,  called  "toddy"  or 
palm  wine.  The  dough  is  then  worked,  and  the  yeast  produces  fer- 
mentation or  "rising,"  the  dough  again  acting  upon  the  leavening 
principle,  the  starch  of  the  flour  is  converfed  into  sacharine  matter. 
This  is  again  transformed  into  alcohol  and  carbonic  acid.  The  escape 
of  the  caibonic  acid  in  little  bubbles,  produced  by  fermentation,  is 
prevented  by  the  gluten  of  the  dough,  and  this  causes  the  little  holes 
which  are  seen  in  leaven  or  light  bread.  The  bread  to  be  digestable 
and  nice  must  be  made  of  good  and  fresh  yeast ;  when  made  of 


2O2  HINTS   ON   MAKING   AND    BAKING    CAKES. 

stale  yeast  the  bread  has  a  sour  and  disagreeable  flavor;  inferior 
yeast  powders,  imperfect  fermentation  and  heavy,  indigestable  bread. 

In  families,  the  night  before  the  bread  is  wanted  for  breakfast, 
the  dough  is  well  kneaded.  The  kneaded  dough  is  wrapped  up  or 
kept  at  a  moderate,  even  temperature  and  left  to  stand  until  morn- 
ing. When  it  has  risen  it  is  worked  over  again,  divided  into  loaves 
or  rolls  and  then  put  into  an  oven  just  warm,  and  then  left  to  rise 
again.  The  water  evaporating,  the  loaves  will  swell  up  and  a  yellow 
crust  will  begin  to  form  upon  the  top.  In  opening  the  door  of  the 
stove  or  oven,  you  are  met  by  steam  which  quickly  passes  away. 
The  bread  is,  in  all  probability,  sufficiently  baked,  or  if  the  crumb  is 
elastic  and  rises  again  after  being  pressed  down  with  the  finger, 
and  if  the  bottom  crust  is  hard  and  resonant  when  thumped  with 
the  fingers,  the  bread  is  sufficiently  baked.  Bread,  if  properly  made 
and  kept  in  a  cool  place,  ought  to  be  perfectly  soft  and  palatable  at 
the  expiration  of  three  or  four  days.  It  should  be  at  least  twenty- 
four  hours  old  before  eaten.  The  stomach — that  much-injured  mem- 
ber of  the  human  body  —  has  hard  work  to  digest  new  bread  and 
hot  rolls  swimming  in  butter,  for  these  articles,  when  taken  out  of 
the  oven,  are  full  of  moisture;  the  starch  is  held  together  in  masses 
and  the  bread,  instead  of  being  crusted  so  as  to  expose  each  grain 
of  starch  to  the  saliva,  actually  prevents  their  digestion  by  being 
worked  by  the  teeth  into  a  tough,  waxy  mass,  which  lies  on  the 
stomach  like  so  much  lead. 

MAKING  BREAD. — One  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  of  cream  of  tartar 
to  3  pints  of  flour. 

INDIAN  BREAD  (Mrs.  Randolph). — Take  2  cups  of  corn  (or  In- 
dian meal)  and  work  into  it  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
make  it  up  thin  with  milk  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  ;  set  it 
to  rise.  Just  before  breakfast  bake  it  in  small  pans  or  in  one  large 
one.  Observe  to  grease  them. 

MRS.  SANDERSON'S  CORN  BREAD. — One  quart  of  good  sweet 
milk,  4  eggs,  2  pints  of  white  corn  meal,  i  spoonful  of  cooked  rice, 
5  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  some  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda. 

VIRGINIA  CORN  BREAD  FOR  DINNER. — Take  1-2  gallon  of  corn 
(white)  meal  and  make  it  up  with  cold  water  (if  desired,  add  some 
salt)  ;  then  bake  it  brown.  The  meal  is  superior  and,  of  course, 
the  bread  will  be  good. 

VIRGINIA  CORN  BREAD. — Dissolve  i  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
3  1-2  pints  of  boiling  milk ;  into  this  scald  i  quart  of  Indian  meal ; 
when  cool,  ad'l  1-2  pint  of  wheat  flour,  a  little  sugar,  i  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  2  eggs  well  beaten  ;  mix  well  together  and  bake  in  two 
cakes.  The  tins  should  be  well  greased  or  buttered. 

CORN  MEAL  BREAD. — Beat  2  eggs  very  light  and  mix  them  with 


HINTS    ON    MAKING    AND    BAKING    CAKES.  2O3 

i  pint  of  sour  milk  ;  add  i  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  stir  in  i  pint  of 
meal  and  i  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter ;  beat  it  well  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven. 

COLD  CORN  BREAD. — Loaves  of  cold  corn  bread  can  be  put  into 
the  pot  of  bacon  while  boiling  for  a  few  minutes  before  dinner,  and 
when  soaked,  serve  in  a  dish  with  the  top  of  the  boiling  liquor  poured 
over  it.  Old  persons,  especially,  relish  it. 

MRS.  BASS'  CORN  BREAD. — Two  eggs,  1-2  pint  of  cream  or  sweet 
milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  i  of  soda  or  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  i  cup  of  wheat  flour,  i  cup  of  corn  meal.  Mix 
and  stir  the  batter  well  for  10  or  15  minutes.  Bake  i  hour. 

ST.  CHARLES,  N.  O.,  CORN  BREAD. — Two  eggs  beaten  very  light, 
mixed  with  i  pint  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk  and  i  pint  of  bolted  or 
very  fine  meal  and  1-2  cupful  of  melted  butter,  i  tablespoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  sour  milk  or  eggs.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

INDIAN  BREAD  OR  PONE. — Two  gallons  of  corn  meal,  i  cupful  of 
flour,  i  large  tablespoonful  of  salt,  4  cups  of  warm  water,  2  cups  of 
yeast  (fresh  and  strong)  ;  put  the  meal  and  flour  in  a  tray  together 
and  mix  them  well.  Make  a  hole  in  the  center,  then  mix  the  yeast 
and  water  and  pour  it  into  the  hole  in  the  meal ;  take  a  spoon  and 
stir  it  with  the  meal  near  the  center  till  it  forms  a  smooth  batter ; 
then  strew  the  flour  over  the  surface,  thinly,  so  as  to  cover  the  whole 
of  the  dough,  warm  a  cloth  and  lay  it  over  the  tray  or  pan.  In 
winter  set  it  before  the  fire  to  rise  and  in  a  warm  place  in  the  sum- 
mer. When  it  has  risen  so  that  the  surface  is  cracked,  throw  over 
the  salt  and  work  the  dough ;  if  too  stiff,  add  a  little  warm  water, 
which  should  be  at  hand ;  then  knead  it  for  thirty  minutes,-  putting 
flour  over  the  mass,  and  let  it  remain  /ully  half  an  hour.  Cover  it 
and  set  to  rise  again  ;  put  the  dough  in  a  floured  pasteboard  and 
divide  it  into  two  loaves.  Have  your  oven  ready,  put  in  the  loaves 
directly  and  bake  for  two  hours.  Corn  bread  requires  longer  baking 
than  wheat  bread  When  done,  wrap  the  loaf  up  in  a  coarse,  clean 
moist  towel  and  stand  it  in  a  cool  place.  The  moisture  from  the 
towel  prevents  the  crust  from  hardening  too  much  while  it  is  cooling. 
Corn  bread  is  always  best  when  fresh.  If  the  dough  becomes  sour, 
sprinkle  over  it  a  little  warm  water  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
or  salaratus  has  been  dissolved.  Take  care  that  you  don't  put  too 
much  alkaline  substance  in  the  bread.  Corn  meal  should  not  be 
bought  in  large  quantities,  for  it  soon  spoils.  Keep  it  in  a  bin  if  you 
can,  in  a  cool  place. 

LEAF  CORN  BREAD. — Prepare  the  wood-fire  as  for  baking  ash 
cake,  then  make  the  dough  in  the  same  way.  After  the  ashes  have 
been  opened  spread  a  large  cabbage  leaf  or  more  on  the  hearth ; 
mould  your  corn  dough  into  a  cake  with  your  hands,  but  not  so 


2O4  HINTS    ON    MAKING    AND    RAKING    CAKES. 

large  as  to  come  to  the  edges  of  the  leaf.  Then  wet  your  hand  in 
cold  water  quickly  and  flatten  the  leaf.  Put  two  or  three  large  cab- 
bage leaves  over  it.  Secure  the  edges  by  pressing  them  down  so 
closely  that  no  ashes  can  enter,  then  put  on  some  moderately  warm 
ashes,  then  the  hot,  and  finally  the  coals,  and  bake  slowly.  To  find 
out  if  done,  carefully  i  emove  the  ashes,  but  do  not  disturb  the  leaves, 
strike  the  loaf  with  a  stick ;  if  it  is  not  a  dead  sound,  the  bread  is 
done.  Carefully  pull  it  out  by  putting  the  poker  at  the  back  of  the 
bread  and  carefully  remove  the  leaves,  and  if  done  properly  the  loaf 
will  be  perfectly  clean  and  sweet.  Eat  with  butter.  It  will  be  found 
excellent  for  persons  taking  pleasure  excursions  and- while  camping 
out,  from  the  romance  of  preparing  one's  own  bread  and  having  it 
hot  when  away  from  home.  Wheat  bread  can  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way.  If  managed  rightly  it  will  have  a  hard  crust.  No  cleaner, 
sweeter  or  better  bread  can  be  made.  It  should  be  eaten  hot.  It 
is  good  with  sweet  or  buttermilk. 

JOURNEY  OR  JOHNNY  CAKE. — Make  a  good  wood  fire.  Have  a 
clean  white  board  with  a  long  handle  to  rest  it  against.  Make  up  a 
dough  of  meal  and  water,  a  little  salt,  then  have  your  board  a  little 
hot.  Put  the  well-kneaded  dough,  formed  with  the  hands  into  a 
cake,  on  the  board  and  flatten  it  with  the  hands ;  then  place  the 
board,  not  upright,  before  the  fire,  the  handle  supported  against 
something.  Keep  turning  the  board  around,  if  baked  in  one  place, 
until  it  is  done.  The  head  of  a  flour  barrel  or  a  piece  of  it  will  do 
to  bake  upon  by  placing  a  flat-iron  behind  it,  so  as  not  to  let  it  set 
up  straight,  but  slant  a  little.  The  ash  cake,  the  hoe  cake  and  the 
Johnny  cake  can  be  conveniently  made  when  camping  out.  The 
meal  should  be  sweet  and  good  in  order  that  the  bread  may  be  so. 
W'hite  corn  meal  is  sweeter,  while  the  yellow  corn  meal  is  richer  and 
stronger. 

ASH  CAKE  OR  LEAF  BREAD. — Make  up  the  required  amount  of  corn 
meal  with  water  and  salt  or  sweet  milk;  knead  it  well,  then  have  a  hot 
hearth  with  enough  ashes  and  coals  ol  wood,  open  the  ashes,  leave  a 
clean  space,  or  the  ashes  may  be  swept  away  with  a  broom  for  the  pur- 
pose Then  put  in  the  dough  after  having  moulded  it  into  a  nice 
form  with -your  hands,  then  wet  your  hands  with  cold  water  and 
smooth  the  dough  ;  let  it  remain  a  moment  to  dry,  then  cover  it  up 
gradually  with  ashes  entirely  free  from  coals  ;  when  of  sufficient 
depth  put  on  some  embers,  then  the  coals.  When  done  on  the 
upper  side  and  not  on  the  under,  turn  it  over  and  bake  the  under 
side  ;  but  if  the  hearth  is  sufficiently  hot  this  will  not  be  the  case. 
Then  take  it  out  and  wash  with  a  clean  rag  in  cold  water.  Eat 
with  butter  while  hot.  No  bread  can  equal  it  to  eat  with  butter  or 
sweet  milk.  All  the  sweetness  remains  with  the  bread.  To  tell 


HINTS    :>N*    MAKING    AND    CAKING    CAKES.  2C>5 

when  bread  is  done,  thump  it  with  your  fingers.  If  the  sound  is 
hollow,  it  is  done.  This  applies  to  all  kinds  of  bread.  Wheat  bread 
can  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

CALIFORNIA  JOHNNY  CAKE. — Three  pints  of  good  corn  meal,  i 
pint  of  molasses,  i  cupful  of  butter,  i  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger, 
some  boiling  water  or  milk;  rub  the  butter,  meal  and  a  little  salt  to- 
gether, then  gradually  add  the  molasses,  ginger  and  boiling  water  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  It  must  be  thoroughly  worked  with  an  iron 
spoon.  Then  grease  the  board  with  a  little  lard  or  fresh  butter; 
spread  a  dough  thinkly  on  it  and-  stand  it  nearly  upright  before  the 
fire  by  placing  a  flat-iron  or  stone  at  the  back  of  it.  Do  not  let  the 
edges  bake  while  the  inside  is  raw.  Cut  into  pieces  and  send  it  to 
the  table  hot ;  split  and  butter  them.  In  baking  place  the  board  a 
little  slanting  before  the  hottest  part  of  the  fire. 

MADAME  GETZ'  LUCAS  CORN  BREAD  FOR  DINNER. — For  2  loaves, 
take  5  cupfuls  corn  meal,  3  cups  of  flour,  sifted  together,  5  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  sour  milk,  i  1-2  teaspoonfuls  salaratus.  Bake 
two  hours. 

CORN  HOECAKE. — Take  newly-ground  white  corn  meal,  add  a  lit- 
tle salt  and  milk  and  water  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  batter,  grease  a 
hoe  or  griddle  and  spread  the  dough  on  it;  when  done  on  one  side 
turn  it  over. 

HOECAKE  OF  CORN  MEAL. — Sift  your  meal  of  the  quantity  de- 
sired, then  make  it  up  with  cold  water,  a  little  salt  if  fancied,  knead 
well,  have  your  hoe  or  griddle  hot,  but  not  too  hot,  test  it  with  a  little 
meal  or  grease  it,  then  with  a  spoon  or  your  hands  form  a  cake,  place 
it  on  the  hoe  and  bake  it.  When  done  on  the  underside  turn  it  over. 
Thump  to  see  when  done.  This  is  good  to  eat  when  hot  at  dinner' 
or  breakfast,  opened  and  buttered. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. —  Twof>ints  sour  milk,  4  eggs,  j  tablespoonful  of 
molasses  ;  stir  in  enough  white  corn  meal  to  make  a  batter.  Bake 
in  a  pan. 

DIXIE  CORN  BREAD. — Three  pints  of  new  white  corn .  meal,  i 
spoonful  of  lard,  2  cups  of  milk ;  work  all  well  together  and  bake  in 
cakes  the  size  of  the  hand  i  inch  thick. 

CORN  MEAL  DUMPLINGS  FOR  DINNER. — When  boiling  your  bacon 
skim  off  the  grease  or  "top  of  the  pot,"  and  make  up  some  corn 
meal  into  cakes  as  large  and  thin  as  you  may  desire.  You  can 
flatten  them  or  make  them  into  round  balls  with  your  hands.  The 
liquor  should  be  used  boiling  hot  and  worked  with  a  spoon,  and 
when  nearly  cold  the  cakes  should  be  worked  with  the  hands  and 
put  into  the  boiling  pot  and  cooked  till  done,  then  put  in  a  dish  to 
themselves,  with  a  small  portion  of  the  pot-liquor  over  them.  Many 
persons  are  fond  of  them  when  served  for  dinner,  or  you  may  eat 
them  with  molasses.  A  good  appendage  to  bacon  or  salt  pork. 


2O6  BISCUITS  AND  ROLLS. 


BISCUITS  AND  ROLLS. 

BUTTER  BISCUITS. — Melt  8  ounces  of  butter  in  1-2  pint  of  warm 
milk  and  add  it  to  1-2  gallon  flour,  work  to  a  smooth,  stiff  paste, 
roll  out  and  cut  it  in  any  shape,  stick  the  biscuits  with  a  straw  or 
fork,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  on  a  clean  surface,  open  and  butter  and 
eat  while  hot. 

CREAM  BISCUITS. — Rub  i  pound  each  of  fresh  butter  and  flour 
together,  make  a  hole  in  the  center,  into  which  put  1-2  pound  of 
powdered  sugar  upon  the  rind  of  the  lemon  that  has  been  rubbed 
previously  to  pounding,  and  fchen  whole  eggs  ;  mix  the  eggs  well 
with  the  sugar  and  mix  all  well  together,  forming  a  flexible  paste,  cut 
it  into  round  pieces  nearly  as  large  as  a  walnut,  stamp  them  flat  with 
a  butter  stamp  of  the  size  of  a  silver  dollar.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

LEMON  BISCUITS. — One-fourth  Ib.  flour,  3-4  Ib.  loaf  sugar,  6  oz. 
fresh  butter,  4  eggs,  i  oz.  lemon  peel,  2  dessert  spoonfuls  lemon 
juice;  rub  the  flour  into  the  butter,  stir  in  the  pounded  sugar  and 
finely  minced  lemon  peel,  and  when  these  ingredients  are  thor- 
oughly incorporated  add  the  eggs,  which  should  have  been  well 
beaten,  and  add  the  lemon  juice.  Beat  the  mixture  well  for  a  min- 
ute or  two,  then  drop  it  from  the  spoon  on  a  buttered  tin  about  2 
inches  apart,  as  the  cakes  will  spread  when  they  get  warm  ;  place 
the  tin  in  the  oven  and  bake  to  a  pale  brown  from  ten  to  twenty 
minutes. 

ALMOND  BISCUITS. — Scald,  peel  and  pound  them  fine  in  a  mortar, 
sprinkling  them  from  time  to  time  with  a  little  fine  sugar,  beat  them 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  with  an  ounce  of  flour,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1-4 
Ib.  fine  loaf  sugar,  and  afterwards  the  whites  of  4  eggs  whipped  to  a 
froth.  Have  ready  some  paper  moulds  made  like  boxes  about  the 
length  of  2  fingers  square,  butter  them  within  and  put  in  the  bis- 
cuits, throwing  over  them  equal  quantities  of  flour  and  powdered 
sugar,  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  when  done  of  a  good 
color,  take  them  out  of  the  papers.  Bitter  almond  biscuits  are 
made  in  the  same  manner,  with  this  difference  only,  that  to  every  2 
ounces  of  bitter  almonds  must  be  added  i  ounce  of  sweet  al- 
monds. 

COCOANUT  BISCUITS. — Ten  ounces  sifted  sugar,  3  eggs,  6  ounces 
grated  cocoanut ;  beat  the  eggs  until  they  are  very  light,  add  the 
sugar  gradually,  then  stir  in  the  cocoanut ;  roll  a  tablespoonful  of 
the  paste  at  a  time  in  your  hands  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid,  place 
the  pyramids  on  papers,  put  the  papers  on  tins  and  bake  the  bis- 
cuits in  rather  a  cool  oven  uutil  they  are  of  a  yellowish  brown. 


BISCUITS  AND  ROLLS. 

SPONGE  BISCUIT. — Ten  ounces  flour,  i  Ib  sugar,  10  eggs;  break 
and  beat  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  with  the  rind  of  i  lemon  grated 
together  in  a  pan  near  the  fire  till  the  mixture  gets  warm  and  not 
hot,  then  beat  it  till  cold,  stir  the  flour  in  gently  and  fill  it  in  square 
tin  moulds  or  paper  cases,  sift  sugar  over  and  bake  in  10  minutes  ; 
lemon  may  be  added. 

MILK  BISCUITS. — Take  i  Ib.  of  flour,  1-4  Ib.  of  butter,  8  table- 
spoonfuls  of  yeast  and  1-2  pint  of  new  milk  ;  melt  the  butter  in  the 
milk,  put  in  the  yeast  and  some  salt,  and  \vork  into  a  stiff  paste. 
When  light  knead  it  well,  roll  it  out  an  inch  thick,  cut  out  with  a 
tumbler,  prick  them  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If  but- 
ter is  not  abundant  you  may  take  2  ounces  of  lard  and  the  rest 
butter. 

NAPLES  BISCUIT. — Beat  8  eggs  in  a  large  bowl  or  pan  with  three 
spoonfuls  of  orange  flavor;  when  of  a  stiff  froth,  gradually  add  at 
the  same  time  i  Ib.  of  finely  powdered  loaf  sugar,  then  stop  whisk- 
ing and  put  in  slowly  i  Ib.  of  the  best  flour ;  mix  it  well  together, 
the  pans  being  prepared,  fill  them.  Sift  over  a  little  dust  of  loaf 
sugar  and  bake  them  as  soon  as  possible. 

HONEY  BISCUITS. — Mix  i  quart  of  clear  honey  with  a  coffee  cup 
of  white  sugar  and  a  coffee  cup  of  fresh  butter  and  the  juice  of  2 
oranges  or  lemons,  slightly  warm  the  butter  to  soften  it,  stir  all  the 
ingredients  well  together,  adding  a  grated  nutmeg,  then  mix  in  gra- 
dually 2  Ibs.  of  flour,  more  or  less  ;  form  a  dough  just  stiff  enough 
to  roll  out  smoothly,  beat  it  well  with  a  rolling-pin,  then  roll  it  out 
into  a  large  cake  1-2  inch  thick,  cut  it  into  biscuits  with  a  tumbler 
dipped  frequently  in  flour,  lay  them  on  a  baking  sheet  slightly  but- 
tered or  floured,  and  bake  them. 

TEA  BISCUITS. — Two  quarts  of  flour,  i  pint  of  sweet  milk,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  or  shortening,  the  same  of  white  sugar,  a  little 
salt  if  lard  is  used,  1-3  of  a  cup  of  good  yeast.  Let  the  milk  cool 
after  boiling  it,  make  a  hole  in  the  flour  and  put  in  the  ingredients, 
stir  them  a  little,  mixing  in  a  little  flour,  let  it  rise  over  night ;  in  the 
morning  mix  and  knead  well,  let  them  rise,  cutting  down  two  or  three 
times  during  the  day,  cut  out  in  cakes,  making  2  layers,  put  them  in 
a  pan  to  rise  an  hour  or  so  before  baking. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. — 2  pints  of  good  flour,  3  eggs,  6  spoonfuls  of 
yeast,  2  cups  of  milk  and  a  little  salt ;  cover  it  up  warm  and  set  it 
to  rise  for  30  minutes,  then  make  the  rolls  and  put  them  in  a  quick 
oven  and  let  them  stay  in  1-2  hour;  if  not  light  enough  add  more 
yeast,  if  you  can  do  so  without  making  them  bitter. 

GERMAN  ROLLS. — Take  1-2  gallon  of  the  best  flour  and  as  much 
new  milk  as  will  wet  the  above  into  dough,  mix  it  with  a  cup  of  yeast , 
i  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  set  sponge  ;  when  risen  add  a  spoonful 


2O8  BISCUITS  AND  ROLLS. 

of  butter  melted  with  2  eggs,  work  it  together  and  make  it  in  rolls; 
let  them  rise  in  a  warm  place ;  bake  in  buttered  tins  in  a  brisk  oven 
20  minutes. 

DELICIOUS  BREAKFAST  ROLLS. — Rub  into  i  pint  of  flour  a  spoon- 
ful of  butter,  i  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt ;  mix  into  a  light 
paste  with  new  warm  milk  containing  i  tablespoonful  of  yeast ;  let 
the  paste  stand  for  3-4  of  an  hour  or  longer  till  it  rises,  then  make 
into  small  rolls  either  egged  over  or  not,  and  bake;  an  egg  to  each 
pint  of  flour  is  an  improvement,  in  which  a  part  of  the  white  is  re- 
served for  egging  over. 

IRISH  POTATO  ROLLS. — Boil  3  Ibs.  of  Irish  potatoes,  mash  and 
work  them  while  warm  with  as  much  milk  as  will  make  them  pass 
through  a  colander;  take  1-2  or  3-4  pint  of  yeast  and  1-2  pint  of 
warm  water,  mix  with  the  potatoes,  then  pour  the  whole  upon  5  Ibs. 
of  flour;  add  a  little  salt;  knead  it  well,  and  if  not  of  proper  con- 
sistency put  in  a  little  more  milk  and  warm  water  ;  let  it  stand  before 
the  fire  an  hour  to  rise,  work  it  well  and  make  into  rolls.  Bake 
one-half  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  They  eat  well  toasted  and 
buttered. 

SALLY  LUNN  ROLLS. — Two  Ibs.  of  fine  flour,  2  small  spoonfuls  of 
yeast,  with  a  little  warm  water;  set  to  rise  1-2  hour,  put  a  spoonful 
of  butter,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  in  as  much  new  milk  as  will  make  it  of 
proper  stiffness,  mix  all  well  up  and  put  into  cups  ;  when  risen  bake 
in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

ROLLS — (Mrs.  E.  A.  Watson  ) — One  quart  of  milk,  i  good  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  i  cupful  of  homemade  yeast ;  warm  the  milk 
slightly  and  put  the  butter  in  it,  stir  in  2  quarts  of  flour,  a  little  salt, 
and  beat  to  a  batter,  and  then  set  it ;  when  it  rises  stir  in  more  flour 
till  it  is  of  the  proper  consistency. 

SPANISH  DOUGHNUTS. — Take  6  or  8  milk  rolls,  remove  the  crust, 
cut  them  into  small  slices  as  thick  as  your  finger,  put  them  in  a  dish 
and  pour  over  them  some  strong  wine  (red),  which  has  first  been 
well  mixed  with  6  ounces  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinna- 
mon, 1-2  that  quantity  of  cloves,  and  1-4  of  a  nutmeg,  ground  or 
beaten.  Let  the  slic'es  soak  in  the  wine  a  little,  but  not  so  long  as 
to  pull  to  pieces.  Before  dishing  they  are  to  be  dipped  in  butter  and 
fried  in  hot  lard  and  strewed  with  sugar  and  glazed  with  a  hot  shovel, 
that  is,  hold  a  shovel  over  the  slices  till  the  sugar  which  is  on 
them  melts. 

SWEET  MILK  DOUGHNUTS — (Mrs.  Kendall,  San  Francisco,  Cal. — 
One  egg,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tarter,  i  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little  salt ;  mix  well  and  fry 
in  hot  lard. 

PLUM     BUNS. — Mix    with    the    dough    of    buns    blanched    al- 


BISCUITS  AND  ROLLS.  209 

monds  chopped  fine  and  season  them  with  cinnamon  and  mace ; 
work  them  around  the  edges,  when  moulded  as  common  buns. 

SACRAMENTO  WIGS  OR  BUNS. — Rub  1-2  Ib.  each  of  butter  and 
sugar,  1-2  ounce  caraway  seeds,  2  eggs,  1-2  pint  of  ale  yeast  into  2 
Ibs.  flour,  beat  well  together  the  eggs,  yeast,  a  little  flour  and  3  or  4 
spoonfuls  of  milk  ;  strain  it  into  the  middle  and  strew  some  of  the 
flour  over  it ;  let  stand  12  hours  or  longer,  then  make  up  into  a  pretty 
tender  paste  with  lukewarm  water  or  milk,  mould  the  wigs  and  set 
them  before  the  fire  i  hour  to  rise,  then  wash  them  over  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  2  spoonfuls  of  milk. 

WAFFLES. — Beat  well  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  ;  add  2  1-2  pints  of  sweet 
milk  and  1-2  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  add  enough  sifted  flour  to  make 
rather  a  stiff  batter ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff  and  stir  in 
lightly,  the  last  thing  before  baking  ;  bake  in  waffle  irons,  serve  hot, 
and  eat  with  butter  and  syrup.  If  but  3  eggs  are  used,  add  one 
heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  the  flour. 

RICK  WAFFLES.— 9  eggs  well  beaten,*  9  large  spoonfuls  of  rice 
flour,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  have  a  teacup  of  rice  boiled  very  soft, 
and  when  cool,  beat  in  the  flour  and  eggs;  add  i  1-2  pints  of  milk, 
grease  your  waffle  irons  nicely  with  lard,  fill  them  up  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  bake  in  a  hot  iron  mould.  Butter  and  se/id  to  the  table. 

PLAIN  WAFFLES. — i  pint  of  butter  miik,  i  pint  of  flour,  i  teaspoon- 
ful (even)  soda,  thin  with  new  sweet  milk,  if  convenient,  use  sour 
cream,  in  the  place  of  the  other  milk. 

GERMAN  WAFFLES. — Mix  12  oz.  butter,  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  12 
oz.  flour,  stir  slowly  in  1-4  pint  of  new  milk,  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  them  into  the  batter,  bake  as  soon  as  taken 
from  the  moulds  and  place  one  upon  the  other. 

WAFFLES  (raised) — 6  eggs,  3  pints  sweet  milk,  just  warm,  1-2  cup 
of  butter,  a  little  salt,  a  teacupful  of  yeast ;  sufficient  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Let  it  rise  for  three  hours  ;  let  the  pans  be  hot  before 
baking;  put  into  muffin  irons.  Some  make  up  these  muffins  over 
night. 

CRULLERS. — Take  4  pounds  of  wheat  flour,  1-2  pound  of  butter, 
4  eggs,  i  quart  of  milk,  i  1-2  pounds  of  sugar,  a  little  ground  mace 
or  nutmeg,  and  i  oz.  of  carb.  soda.  Fry  in  lard  or  oil. 

CRULLERS. — 3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  6  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  3  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  and  flavor 
with  anything  you  like.  Mix  very  soft  and  roll  thin. 

CRULLERS. — i  tea  poonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  milk  ;  strain  into  1-2  pint  of  flour,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter  or  lard,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  4  eggs,  6  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
of  sugar,  i  nutmeg,  flour  to  roll  rut.  Boil  in  hot  water. 

NORTH  CAROLINA  JUMBLES.  (D.  C.) — i  pound  each  of  flour,  *u.;ar 


2IO  BISCUITS  AND  ROLLS. 

and  butter ;  mix  these  ingredients  with  3  well  beaten  eggs,  a  wine- 
glass of  rose  water,  and  some  essence  of  lemon.  Roll  in  thin  sheets, 
cut  in  circles  and  dip  in  loaf  sugar  before  baking. 

FAMILY  JUMBLES.  (D.  C.) — 3  pounds  of  flour,  11-2  pounds  of 
white  sugar,  i  pound  of  butter,  a  cup  of  new  milk,  a  glass  of  new 
wine,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  a  teaspoonful 
beaten  caraway  seeds. 

BRANDY  CAKES  OR  JUMBLES. — Sift  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  3  pounds 
of  flour  into  a  wooden  tray,  throw  in  1-2  pound  of  brown  sugar,  3-4 
pound  of  butter,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  8  eggs,  leaving  out 
the  whites  of  four,  and  a  wineglass  of  brandy ;  take  all  up  in  a  mas's, 
sprinkle  some  fine  sugar  on  your  biscuit  board,  roll  a  piece  of  the 
dough  in  your  hand,  then  in  the  sugar,  and  make  into  the  form  of  a 
ring  in  joining  the  ends  together  ;  place  them  not  very  closely  in 
a  stove  pan  and  bake  them  a  light  brown,  let  them  cool  a  little  and 
take  them  out  very  carefully,  with  a  knife  under  them.  Wipe  the  pan 
out  clean  every  time  you  put  in  a  fresh  lot,  and  never  grease  or  flour 
it.  They  are  very  nice,  and  keep  well. 

SPANISH  JUMBLKS,  (Mrs.  B.) — 8  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  pound  each 
of  butter  and  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  i  2  teaspoonful 
of  soda  or  Price's  yeast  powder,  sifted  flour  enough  for  a  soft 
dough,  i  nutmeg  i  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon,  roll  this 
dough  in  strips  four  inches  long,  join  the  ends  so  as  to  form  rings, 
place  on  buttered  pans  and  bake  quickly. 

CALIFORNIA  JUMBLES. — 5  eggs,  3  cups  of  sugar,  i  1-2  cups  of  but- 
ter, a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough  to  roll.  Flavor 
to  taste  with  spices  or  essences. 

Los  ANQELOS  GINGERBREAD. — One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  2  Ibs. 
of  well  dried  flour,  5  gills  of  molasses,  1-2  Ib.  beaten  ginger,  fine,  i 
glass  of  brandy,  i  Ib  of  butter,  well  rubbed  in  the  flour  ;  mix  well  all 
the  ingredients,  till  it  becomes  a  paste,  roll  out,  and  cut  in  any  shape 
fancied ;  baked  a  little  time  on  a  tin. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. — Six  cups  of  flour.  3  cups  molasses,  a  cup  of 
butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  pearlash  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  2 
eggs,  2  oz.  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon  and  allspice. 

HARD  GINGERBREAD. — Rub  1-2  pound. of  butter  into  a  pound  of 
flour,  rub  them  in  1-2  pound  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger, 
and  a  spoonful  of  rose-water;  work  it  well,  roll  out,  and  bake  in  flat 
pans,  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  will  take  about  half  an  hour  to  bake. 
This  gingerbread  will  keep  good  some  time. 

CALIFORNIA  GINGERBREAD. — Mix  with  2  pounds  of  flour,  i  pint  of 
molasses,  3-4  pound  of  caraways,  i  oz  of  ginger,  finely  sifted,  1-2  Ib. 
of  butter.  Roll  the  paste  into  what  form  you  fancy,  bake  in  tins, 
after  having  worked  it  well,  and  kept  it  to  rise.  If  you  like,  add 
orange,  candied  in  small  bits. 


BISCUITS  AND  ROLLS.  211 

VANILLA  COOKIES. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1-2  cup  of  butter,  beat  the 
sugar  and  butter  together,  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  1-2  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  1-2  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla.  Roll 
out  very  thin  and  bake  a  delicate  brown.  Leave  out  the  vanilla, 
and  you  have  sugar  cookies. 

BUTTER  COOKIES. — Half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  cup  of  butter  and  3  eggs, 
roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  These  cookies  improve  with 
age. 

NICE  PLAIN  COOKIES, — One  cup  of  sour  milk,  a  teaspoon  of  soda, 
a  cup  of  lard,  2  cups  of  sugar;  flavor  lightly  with  lemon,  mix  stiff 
with  flour  and  roll  thin ;  a  little  salt. 

ORANGE  GINGERBREAD. — Sift  2  1-2  pounds  of  fine  flour  and  add 
to  it  i  3-4  pints  of  molasses,  12  ounces  of  sugar,  1-2  pound  of  can- 
died orange  peel,  cut  small,  i  oz  each  of  ground  ginger  and  allspice, 
melt  to  oil  12  oz.  of  fresh  butter,  mix  the  whole  together  and  let  it 
remain  for  12  hours;  roll  out  with  as  little  flour  as  possible  to  1-2 
an  inch  thick ;  cut  it  in  pieces,  3  inches  long  and  2  inches  wide, 
checker  them  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  put  on  baking  plates  so  as 
not  to  touch,  rub  them  over  with  a  brush  dipped  into  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  beaten  up  with  a  cup  of  milk.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  after 
a  few  minutes  ;  when  done,  retouch  them  slightly,  divide  the  pieces 
with  a  knife,  if  they  have  run  together  in  baking. 

SUGAR  TEA  CAKE. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  a  cup  of  lard  or 
butter,  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  spoons 
cream  tartar.  Mix  soft  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

LEMON  TEA  CAKE. — Put  4  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  into  a  » 
quart  of  good  flour  and  2  cups  of  sweet  milk,  in   which  put  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and   2  cups  of  sugar, 
mixed  well  together,  then  break  into  it  4  eggs,  pour  in  milk  and  flour 
and  flavor  to  taste  with  rasped  lemon  rind  and  the  juice. 

CALIFORNIA  TEA  CAKE. — Dissolve  1-2  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  tar- 
tar in  hot  water  and  let  it  stand  to  cool ;  beat  10  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  put  the  cream  tartar  and  eggs  together  and  beat  them  for  10 
minutes,  add  some  fine  flour  and  4  oz  of  sugar,  put  in  square  pans 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

TOASTS. — Stale  bread  is  preferable  to  new  for  toasting.  N.  B.  If 
toast  is  to  be  served  under  a  fowl,  bird,  eggs,  or  kidney,  it  should  be 
toasted  very  dry. 

FRENCH  TOAST.  (Miss  Savage.) — To  one  egg,  thoroughly  beaten, 
put  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  a  little  salt,  slice  light  bread  and  dip 
into  the  mixture,  allowing  each  slice  to  absorb  some  of  the  milk,  then 
brown  in  a  well  buttered  griddle.  Spread  with  butter  and  serve  hot. 

LEMON  TOAST.  (Forsyth) — Beat  well  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  add  3 
cups  of  sweet  milk,  take  baker's  bread,  not  too  stale  and  cut  into 


212  BISCUITS  AND  ROLLS. 

• 

slices  ;  dip  them  'into  the  milk  and  eggs,  and  lay  the  slices  into  a 
hot  spider  with  sufficient  melted  butter  to  fry  a  nice  delicate  brown  ; 
take  the  whites  of  the  6  eggs  and  beat  them  to  a  froth,  adding  a  large 
cup  of  white  sugar,  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  beating  well  and  add 
2  cups  of  boiling  water;  serve  over  the  bread  as  a  sauce  and  you 
will  find  it  a  very  delicious  dish. 

INDIAN  TOAST. — Place  4  quarts  of  milk  over  the  fire  ;  when  it 
boils,  add  a  spoonful  of  flour  to  thicken,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  lump 
of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  have  ready  in  a  deep  dish,  6  or 
8  slices  of  light  Indian  bread  toasted,  pour  the  mixture  over  them 
and  serve  hot. 

ENGLISH  MUFFINS. — Put  1-2  gallon  of  flour  into  a  tray,  mix 
i  1-2  pint  of  new  warm  milk  and  water  with  1-4  pint  of  mild  ale 
yeast  and  a  little  salt,  stir  these  together  for  15  minutes,  strain 
the  liquid  into  the  flour,  mix  the  dough  as  light  as  possible  and 
set  it  to  rise  for  an  hour.  Make  it  up  with  the  hands,  pull  it  to 
pieces  each  the  size  of  a  walnut,  roll  them  up  like  balls  and  lay 
a  flannel  over  them  as  fast  as  they  are  done  and  keep  the  dough 
covered  the  whole  time.  When  the  dough  is  quite  rolled  into 
balls  the  first  that  are  done  will  be  quite  ready  for  baking,  and 
may  be  spread  out  into  the  form  of  muffins.  Lay  them  on  the 
heated  plate,  and  as  the  bottoms  change  color  turn  them  on  the 
other  side.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  burn  them.  Another  and 
a  better  sort  is  made  by  mixing  i  Ib.  of  flour  with  an  egg,  an  ounce 
of  butter  melted  in  a  pint  of  milk  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast  beaten 
well  together.  Raise  for  2  or  3  hours;  bake  in  rings. 

BU.EAD  MUFFINS. — Cut  off  the  crust  of  five  thick  slices  of  loaf  or 
baker's  bread,  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish  and  pour  boiling  water  over 
them  —just  enough  to  saturate  them  ;  cover  the  dish,  and  after  the 
bread  has  soaked  an  hour  drain  off  the  water.  Work  with  a  spoon 
until  it  is  a  smooth  paste,  then  mix  in  2  1-2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
and  2  cups  of  milk  ;  beat  3  eggs  and  stir  them  slow  into  the  bread 
mass ;  grease  or  butter  your  muffin  rings,  set  them  on  a  hot  stove 
pan  and  pour  into  each  ring  a  portion  of  the  batter;  bake  brown, 
break  them  open  with  the  fingers  to  butter  and  eat  them  hot ;  a  nice 
muffin. 

CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS. — To  3  pints  of  corn  meal  (if  can  be  had 
bolted),  i  cup  of  lard,  3  eggs,  1-2  teaspoonful  soda,  a  little  salt. 
Beat  stiff  batter  with  buttermilk  and  bake  in  muffin  rings  with  quick 
fire. 

WAFERS. — Put  7  ounces  of  sifted  flour  in  a  paste  board,  add  5  ozs. 
of  pounded  sugar,  3  ozs,  of  butter,  the  grated  peel  of  an  orange ; 
mix  the  whole  with  an  egg  and  woik  it  to  a  smooth,  stiff  paste ;  divide 
the  paste  into  pieces  of  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  give  them  an  olive 


BISCUITS  AND  ROLLS.  213 

shape ;  heat  an  oval  wafer  iron,  place  one  of  the  pieces  of  paste  in 
it,  close  the  iron  tightly,  so  as  to  spread  the  paste,  and  cook  it  on 
both  sides  ;  take  the  wafer  out  of  the  iron  and  put  it  flat  on  a  sieve. 
When  the  paste  has  cooked  in  this  way  put  the  wafers  by  until 
wanted. 

ICE  WAFERS. — Put  1-2  pound  of  flour  in  a  basin  with  1-2  pound 
of  pounded  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  sugar,  3  eggs  ;  mix  well 
together  and  add  1-2  ounce  of  butter  melted,  and  work  the  whole  to 
a  smooch  paste,  then  mix  in  i  quart  of  milk,  in  small  quantities  at 
first ;  heat  a  wafer  iron  over  a  moderate  fire,  turn  it  over  to  heat 
both  sides  equally,  and  pour  in  a  spoonful  of  the  wafer  paste  on 
one  side,  close  the  iron  and  put  it  over  the  fire  ;  when  the  wafer 
is  cooked  on  one  side  turn  the  iron  over  and  cook  the  other  side ; 
cut  off  the  superfluous  part  around  the  iron,  open  it,  and  place  a 
stick  on  one  end  of  the  wafer  and  roll  it  quickly  around  the 
stick.  Cook  all  the  paste  in  the  same  way  and  put  the  wafers  in 
a  tin  box,  in  a  dry  place,  till  wanted. 

ALMOND  WAFERS  A  L'ALLEMOND. — Blanch,  peel  and  pound  1-2 
Ib.  of  almonds,  pounded  sugar,  and  moisten  the  paste  with  two 
whites  of  eggs,  warm  sonie  untinned  baking  sheets,  rub  them 
over  with  pure  white  wax,  and  when  cold  place  on  them  some 
small  portions  of  the  paste  of  the  size  of  a  small  walnut  at  in- 
tervals ;  flatten  each  portion  with  a  knife  to  a  round  2  inches  in 
diameter,  strew  the  the  top  with  chopped  almonds  mixed  in  white 
of  egg  and  pounded  sugar;  bake  the  wafers  in  a  slack  oven,  and 
when  done  press  them  on  a  rolling  pin  to  curve  them,  and  put  them 
by  for  use. 

GINGKR  SNAPS. — Take  7  pounds  of  flour,  i  quart  of  molasses,  i 
Ib.  of  brown  sugar,  i  Ib.  butter,  2  ounces  of  ground  ginger,  and  then 
take  i  gill  of  water,  3-4  of  an  ounce  of  saleratus  ;  mix  them  all 
into  a  dough  and  cut  them  out  something  larger  than  marbles  and 
bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven 

GINGER  SNAPS. — Two  cups  sugar,  2  cups  molasses,  2  cups  butter, 
or  i  cup  of  butter  and  i  of  lard,  2  tablespoonfnls  soda  dissolved  in 
a  very  little  rich  milk  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger.  Roll  thin  and 
bake  in  a  well-heated  oven. 

CINNAMON  JUMBLF.S. — 1-2  cup  each  of  butter  and  lard  mixed  to- 
gether, a  teaspoonful  of  Price's  yeast  powder  sifted  into  2  cups 
of  flour,  2  eggs,  and  powdered  cinnamon  enough  to  color  a  light 
brown  ;  drop  a  teaspoonful  for  each  jumble  on  buttered  iron  sheets. 
Bake  quickly  ;  when  done,  dust  them  with  white  sugar.  They  are 
delicious. 

GERMAN  TOAST. — Beat  2  eggs  lightly,  slice  a  baker's  loaf,  dip  in 
the  eggs,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  lard ;  serve  with  hot  sauce. 


214 


BATTER    CAKES. 


BATTER  CAKES. 


PLAIN  CORN  BATTER  CAKES. — Take  as  much  corn  meal  as  you 
may  think  necessary,  sift  it  and  then  add  salt,  an  egg  or  two,  a  little 
lard  or  milk  or  meat  broth,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  more, 
beat  well,  fry  on  a  hot  and  well-greased  griddle.  The  cakes  should 
be  small,  not  larger  than  a  cup.  Butter  and  pile  them  on  a  hot 
plate;  eat  with  molasses,  honey  or  butter.  Use  skimmed  milk. 
These  cakes  are  good  as  well  as  economical. 

CORN  MEAL  BATTER  BREAD. — One  pint  each  of  sifted  corn  meal, 
buttermilk  or  clabber,  i  teaspoonful  of  soda,  4  eggs,  all  beaten  and 
added  last ;  salt  to  taste.  It  is  best  to  beat  the  eggs  before  adding 
them. 

BATTER  CAKES. — Two  quarts  of  yellow  corn  meal,  sifted,  i  cup  of 
lard,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  of  saleratus  or  a  large  one  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  warm  water  or  sour  milk,  i  or  2  eggs;  stir  until  well-mixed, 
then  add  enough  cold  water  or  enough  of  the  broth  in  which  bacon, 
pork  or  beef  has  been  boiled,  to  soften  the  compound.  It  is  better 
to  have  it  warm,  then  beat  9r  stir  thirty  minutes  with  a  heavy  spoon, 
then  have  your^  griddle  hot,  and  bake  as  buckwheat  cakes.  It  is 
better  to  butter  them  when  taken  up,  even  if  molasses  is  used,  and 
send  them  to  the  table  hot.  You  can  make  them  without  eggs,  and 
the  batter  can  stand  for  hours  without  injury,  only  stir  well  when 
about  to  cook  the  batter. 

WASHINGTON  CORN  BATTER  CAKES. — Add  i  pint  of  cold  water  or 
buttermilk,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  to  3  pints  of  corn  meal,  an  even 
teaspoonful  of  soda  or  salaratus  dissolved  in  water  or  buttermilk,  i 
spoonful  flour,  i  1-2  pint  of  buttermilk  or  warm  water,  add  more 
water  if  not  thin  enough ;  then  have  the  griddle  hot  and  well-greased, 
tied  up  in  a  clean  white  rag ;  beef  suet,  lard  or  butter  may  be  used. 
Bake  the  cakes  fast  by  putting  on  a  laddleful.  Send  in  piles  hot  to 
the  table.  Remove  the  rough  edges.  These  cakes  do  not  require 
eggs. 

VIRGINIA  CORN  BATTER  CAKES. — Three  pints  white,  raw,  ripe  In- 
dian meal  (which  is  as  white  as  the  driven  snow),  a  small  cup  of 
fine  flour,  a  large,  heaping  spoonful  of  butter,  as  many  eggs  as  you 
may  like,  i  1-2  pints  of  sweet  milk  or  pot-liquor  formed  by  boiling 
bacon,  pork  or  beef  in  water ;  sift  the  meal  into  a  tray  and  mix  the 
flour  and  salt  with  it  and  the  batter,  then  pour  in  the  milk  gradually, 
until  the  whole  is  thoroughly  incorporated,  then  break  the  eggs  into 
the  compound  and  stir  for  10  or  15  minutes  with  a  strong  spoon.  If 
more  milk  be  required,  add  it.  Have  the  griddle  clean,  hot  and 
well-greased  with  fresh  lard  tied  in  a  clean  rag,  then  with  a  spoon 


INDIAN    AND    RYE    BREAD.  21$ 

pour  in  the  batter  to  the  size  and  thickness  desired.  When  the  un- 
derside is  brown  turn  it  with  a  knife  or  cake-turner.  Remove  and 
put  on  a  hot  plate  and  butter  it,  and  grease  the  griddle  again  and 
put  on  another  cake  ;  when  done  lay  it  on  the  other  and  butter  it, 
and  thus  continue  as  long  as  the  cakes  are  wanted. 

INDIAN  AND  RYE  BREAD. 

INDIAN  RYE  BREAD. — Four  pints  of  corn  meal,  4  pints  of  rye  flour, 
i  1-2  pints  of  milk  or  water,  1-2  tablespoonful  of  salt,  i  cup  of  good, 
fresh  yeast.  After  sifting  the  rye  flour  and  meal  together  add  the 
salt  and  pour  the  milk  scalding  hot  on  the  mixture  and  stir  it  very 
hard  until  all  are  well-mixed.  If  the  dough  is  too  stiff,  add  some 
warm  water,  let  it  stand  until  it  becomes  milk-warm,  then  stir  in  the 
yeast.  Knead  the  compound  into  a  stiff  dough  for  30  minutes, 
then  cover  the  pan  with  a  thick  cloth  folded  several  times,  that  has 
been  warmed;  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  or  before  the  fire  to  rise ; 
when  the  dough  is  quite  light  and  cracked  on  the  top,  take  it  out  of 
the  pan  and  put  it  on  a  tray  and  knead  it  again  for  10  or  15  minutes, 
divide  it  into  2  loaves,  then  set  it  near  the  fire  cover  it,  let  it  remain 
for  30  minutes.  Having  the  oven  ready,  put  in  the  loaves  immedi- 
ately and  bake  i  1-2  hours.  If  the  dough  is  sour,  sweeten  it  by 
adding  i  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water. 

INDIAN  WHEAT  BREAD  can  be  made  in  the  same  manner  by  using 
wheat  flour  instead  of  rye.  A  little  Indian  meal  is  a  great  improve- 
ment to  homemade  bread,  as  it  keeps  it  moist  and  sweet. 

BOSTON  RYE  AND  INDIAN  BREAD. — Eight  cups  each  of  corn  meal 
and  rye  flour,  2  cups  of  good,  strong  yeast,  i  cup  of  mglasses,  i 
dessert  spoonful  of  salt.  After  sifting,  mix  the  meal  and  rye  flour 
with  the  salt  in  a  large  woo'den  bowl  or  tray ;  have  ready  i  cup  of 
warm,  but  not  too  hot  water;  mix  the  molasses  and  stir  in  the  yeast. 
Make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the  meal,  then  with  a  spoon  stir  in  all 
the  flour  that  surrounds  the  hole  till  it  forms  a  thick  batter;  put  the 
compound  in  a  pan  and  sprinkle  the  top  with  rye  meal ;  place  a 
thick  cloth  over  the  pan  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  In  3  or 
4  four  hours  it  will  be  cracked  all  over  the  top  ;  in  this  case  it  is 
light  enough  ;  then  open  the  middle  and  gradually  pour  in  two  cups 
of  warm  water ;  as  you  pour  in,  work  it  till  the  whole  is  so  mixed  as 
to  become  a  round  mass  of  dough.  Then  flour  hands  and  work  it 
for  30  minutes  until  the  dough  ceases  to  stick  to  your  hands  ;  turn 
it  over,  then  sprinkle  it  again  with  rye  flour,  and  again  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.  Have  your  oven  at  a  proper  heat,  so  that  the 
bread  may  be  put  in  as  soon  as  it  rises  the  second  time.  When 
light  the  dough  will  stand  high  and  the  surface  cracked  all  over. 


INDIAN  AND  RYE  BREAD. 

This  will  do  for  a  medium  loaf.  Put  it  directly  in  the  oven  and  bake 
it  for  nearly  or  quite  two  hours.  The  bread  will  fall  if  not  baked 
immediately.  When  done,  wrap  it  directly  in  a  coarse,  wet  towel 
and  stand  it  upright  till  it  is  cold.  It  should  be  baked  in  a  deep 
iron  pan.  If  the  dough  should  be  sour,  restore  its  sweetness  by 
adding  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  salaratus  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
then  knead  it  in  the  dough. 

PREMIUM  RYE  BREAD. — One  quart  each  of  Indian  meal  and  rye 
flour  and  wheat  flour,  i  teaspoonful  of  yeast,  i  one  of  salt.  Make 
a  thick  batter  with  warm  milk  ;  pour  into  pans  and  let  it  rise.  Bake 
till  well  done. 

PREMIUM  BREAD  — Take  3  gills  each  of  new  milk  and  boiling  wa- 
ter and  stir  into  this  flour  enough  to  form  a  batter ;  set  it  by  to  rise 
in  a  warm  place  ;  when  sufficiently  risen  add  flour  enough  to  make 
it  thick  enough  to  work  with  the  hands,  and  for  baking.  Set  to  rise 
in  half  an  hour ;  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  with  a  thin  piece  of 
paper  over  jt. 

SUPERIOR  BREAD  WITHOUT  YEAST. — Take  cold  or  ice  water,  the 
colder  the  better,  and  into  this  stir  coarse  corn  meal  to  make  a  stiff 
batter ;  stir  quickly,  adding  the  meal,  so  as  to  introduce  all  the  air 
possible.  Put  it  into  small  patty-pans  or  cake  tins ;  bake  in  a  very 
hot  oven  for  half  an  hour  or  longer.  Baking  is  the  most  difficult 
part  of  the  operation. 

MRS.  GEN.  R.  E.  LEE'S  BREAD. — Take  i  quart  of  best  family 
flour,  put  in  i  egg  and  sweet  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  2  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  yeast  (by  her  recipe),  i  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  i  of 
sugar.  By  this  rule  bread  can  be  made  and  the  dough  kept  for  3 
days  and  sufficient  taken  off  to  bake  for  each  day.  Mrs.  Lee  says 
if  kept  cold  in  winter  or  in  an  ice-house  in  summer,  it  will  lie  dor- 
mant and  may  freeze  without  injury.  If  frozen  hard  enough  to  cut 
with  an  ax  it  will  not  be  damaged,  and  will  rise  readily  as  soon  as 
placed  near  the  fire.  If  made  in  this  way,  to  save,  and  a  change  of 
temperature  causes  it  to  rise,  it  must  be  worked  immediately.  It  is 
only  in  this  state  that  it  can  be  injured  or  become  sour. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Take  unbolted  wheat  flour ;  mix  with  water,  or  better,  sweet  milk, 
in  proportion  of  1-3  milk  to  2-3  water.  Have  the  liquid  in  a  pan 
and  pour  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  flour,  which,  after  stirring,  will 
make  a  batter  that  will  readily  drop  from  a  spoon.  Do  not  salt  the 
bread,  unless  you  prefer  salt  to  natural  sweetness.  Have  the  pans 
hissing  hot,  grease  them  and  pour  in  as  much  dough  as  they  will 
hold.  Do  not  be  in  a  hurry  to  bake.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  stove, 


GRAHAM  BREAD.  217 

and  if  rightly  mixed  and  baked  it  will  be  as  light  and  porous  as 
bread  raised  with  yeast. 

BROWN  GRAHAM  BREAD. — Three  cups  each  of  corn  meal  and 
graham  flour,  i  cup  of  syrup,  2  teaspoonfuls  salaratus  dissolved  in 
sour  milk,  i  tablespoonful  salt.  Steam  3  hours  and  bake  8  hours  in 
a  slow  oven. 

BROWN  AND  SWEET  GRAHAM  BREAD.— Two  quarts  of  graham 
meal,  i  cup  of  brown  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  milk  and  bake  like  other 
bread. 

BROWN  BREAD. — Two  cupfuls  of  corn  meal,  i  cupful  of  rye  meal, 
pour  in  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  add  2  cups  of  sour  milk,  i  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  soda  and  salt,  1-2  cupful  of  molasses.  Steam  in  a 
pan  all  day  and  brown  in  an  oven. 

CRACKED  WHEAT. — Take  2  teacupfuls  of  wheat  and  rinse  it 
thoroughly  in  cold  water,  then  add  4  cupfuls  of  cold  water,  place 
the  basin  in  a  steamer  and  cover  closely,  Let  it  steam  4  or  5  hours, 
stirring  once  or  twice.  To  be  eaten  hot  or  cold  with  rich  milk  or 
cream  if  you  have  either.  Many  use  a  little  sugar  with  it  and  also 
with  graham  pudding.  This  is  a  popular  diet  and  is  universally 
used. 

CRACKED  WHEAT  TO  COOK  — One-third  wheat ;  boil  in  2-3  water. 
Soak  the  wheat  over  night. 

HOMINY  BREAD.' — Mix  2  well-beaten  eggs  with  2  cupfuls  of  cold 
boiled  hominy,  one  of  corn  meal,  i  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard  or 
butter  and  sweet  milk ;  form  a  thin  batter  and  bake  slowly. 

FLORIDA  BRKAD. — One  coffee  cup  of  milk,  i  of  sweet  white  meal, 
i  or  2  eggs  well  beaten  ;  stir  all  well  together.  Bake  well. 

HOMEMADE  BREAD. — Sift  the  quantity  of  flour  you  intend  to  use; 
put  into  a  bowl  21-2  gills  of  water  to  every  quart;  a  large  kitchen 
spoonful  of  yeast,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  every  quart ;  stir  this  mix- 
ture well ;  put  into  it  a  handful  of  flour  for  each  quart,  mix  well,  then 
take  1-3  of  the  flour  remaining  and  stir  it  into  the  mixture.  This  is 
called  the  sponge,  and  it  should  be  set  to  rise.  When  it  is  well-risen 
turn  it  into  a  large  bowl;  mix  in  the  dry  flour,  knead  quite  light  and 
set  it  to  rise,  then  make  into  loaves  and  bake. 

BREAD  TO  SERVE  AT  TABLE. — The  plate  should  be  perfectly 
round,  with  a  flat  surface  and  of  wood.  They  cou'd  be  made  very 
handsome.  To  match  the  plate,  a  bread-knife  with  a  wooden  han- 
dle should  be  procured,  the  blade  sharp,  thin  and  long,  as  it  is  soon 
dulled  by  cutting  bread.  It  is  better  to  place  two  loaves  of  bread 
markpd  on  the  plate,  one  white  and  the  other  brown  bread;  so,  at  time 
when  you  cut  the  bread,  ask  what  kind  is  wished,  and  if  thin  or 
thick  slices.  Cut  no  more  than  is  necessary.  Pass  the  plate  around. 
Never  serve  the  outside  of  bread  or  meal  unless  you  are  requested 


GRAHAM    BREAD. 

to  do  so.  In  cutting  egg  bread  to  serve  a  second  time  take  the 
knife  and  cut  off  a  minute  portion  of  the  edi'e  and  leave  it  on  the 
plate,  as  that  becomes  hard,  and  then  cut  off  a  slice.  Not  much 
strength  is  required  for  cutting  bread,  "  but  it  may  be  done  very 
gracefully." 

LEAVENED  BREAD. — Harving  preserved  a  piece  of  dough  from  your 
last  baking,  the  night  before  you  intend  to  bake,  put  this  into  the 
amount  of  flour  you  intend  to  bake  and  work  the  whole  together 
with  warm  water;  let  it  lie  in  a  wooden  bowl  or  tray,  covered  with 
a  thick  cloth  or  a  thin  one  folded  several  times  over  it,  in  a  warm 
place.  The  dough,  kept  warm,  will  ris*e  again  the  next  morning  and 
will  prove  sufficient  to  mix  with  two  or  three  bushels  of  flour  when 
worked  up  with  warm  water  and  one  pound  of  salt  to  each  bushel. 
Being  worked  well  and  thoroughly  incorporated,  cover  it,  as  before, 
till  it  rises ;  then  knead  aud  make  into  loaves.  The  more  the  dough 
leaven  is  used  the  lighter  the  bread  will  be. 

To  MAKE  TWIST  BREAD. — Make  the  dough,  then  take  three  pieces 
each  as  large  as  a  pint  bowl ;  sift  some  flour  on  the  table  or  board 
and  roll  each  lump  under  your  hand  to  a  foot  long,  making  it  smaller 
at  the  ends  than  in  the  middle.  Having  rolled  the  three  pieces  in 
this  way,  join  their  ends  together,  plait  them  the  whole  length 
and  join  the  last  ends  as  the  first,  by  pressing  them  together.  Pass 
a  brush  dipped  in  milk  over  the  the  loaf.  Lay  in  baking  tins,  set  in 
a  quick  oven  ;  bake  for  55  minutes.  When  the  milk  is  put  on  wait 
10  minutes  before  baking. 

WHEAT   BREAD. 

A  PLAIN  LOAF  OF  BREAD. — One  gallon  of  the  best  flour  or  sec- 
onds, i  teaspoonful  salt,  3  tablespoonfuls  yeast,  i  1-2  pint  of  water. 
Allow  to  rise  and  bake.  Make  into  a  large  loaf  of  bread. 

MEXICAN  BREAD. — Three  pints  of  flour,  i  1-2  pint  of  sugar,  6 
eggs.  Take  the  white  out  of  3  of  the  eggs ;  3  oz.  soda.  Salt  to 
taste.  Raise  with  hop  yeast. 

PULLED  BREAD. — Take  from  the  oven  an  ordinary  loaf  when  it  is 
about  half-baked,  and  with  the  fingers,  while  the  bread  is  yet  hot, 
dexterously  pull  the  half-set  dough  into  pieces  of  irregular  shape 
about  the  size  of  an  egg.  Don't  attempt  to  smooth  or  flatten  them; 
the  rougher  their  shapes  the  better.  Set  upon  tins  and  place  in  a 
slow  oven  and  bake  to  a  rich  brown.  This  forms  a  delicious,  crisp 
crust  for  cheese.  If  you  do  not  bake  at  home,  your  baker  will  pre- 
pare it  for  you,  if  ordered.  It  is  very  nice  with  wine  instead  of 
biscuits. 

BREAD  FOR  DYSPEPTICS. — Scald  some    Indian  meal;  mix  with  it 


WHEAT    BREAD. 


2ig 


the  same  quantity  of  rye  flour,  adding  yeast  and  salt,  and  knead  as 
other  bread.  Bake  from  two  to  three  hours. 

LOAF  BRE\D — (Miss  Mary  McDowell). — Mix  2  quarts  of  flour 
with  cold  water  to  a  stiff  batter,  stir  in  a  teacupful  of  yeast  and  a 
tablespoon  ful  of  sweet  lard  or  butter;  set  it  near  the  fire,  but  not 
too  near,  and  let  it  rise  four  hours ;  then  add  a  small  handful  of  salt; 
work  in  more  flour,  knead  it  well  half  an  hour  ;  make  into  rolls  or  a 
loaf  and  let  it  rise  an  hour  or  two  before  baking  it.  It  requires  11-2 
hours  to  bake  a  large  loaf. 

SISTER'S  BREAD. — Three  pints  of  warm  water,  i  tablespoonful  of 
yeast,  i  teacupful  of  warm  yeast ;  thicken  it  with  flour  to  form  a 
dough.  Let  it  rise,  then  work  into  loaves.  Let  these  rise  1-2  an 
hour;  bake  45  minutes. 

WHEAT  AND  INDIAN  BREAD. — To  2  quarts  of  sifted  Indian  meal 
add  hot  water  enough  to  wet  the  same  ;  when  sufficiently  cooled  add 
i  teaspoonful  or  more  of  salt,  1-2  of  yeast  and  r  teaspoonful  of  mo- 
lasses; then  add  wheat  flour  enough  to  make  it  into  loaves  (it  should 
be  kneaded  well) ;  and  when  risen  properly  bake  or  steam  it  three 
or  four  hours ;  if  this  should  sour  while  rising,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar  and  a  little  salaratus  dissolved  in  water. 

RISEN  BREAD. 

MILK  "RISEN"  BREAD — (Mrs.  L.  C.  Mayo). — Two  cup's  of  flour 
made  into  a  batter  rather  thicker  than  for  waffles,  with  warm  milk  and 
an  equal  proportion  of  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Set  it  in  a 
pot  of  warm  water  rather  above  blood  heat,  and  keep  it  so,  stirring 
it  every  15  minutes  untill  it  begins  to  bead,  then  keep  it  perfectly 
still,  the  water  remaining  as  warm  as  at  first.  After  it  has  sufficiently 
risen,  knead  in  flour  until  nearly  the  consistency  of  light  bread  dough. 
Put  it  in  a  tin  pan  and  set  it  in  a  moderately  warm  oven  to  take  a 
second  rise.  Begin  to  bake  it  slowly,  putting  a  little  fire  under  the 
oven  and  a  little  on  the  lid,  increasing  the  heat  gradually.  About 
i  1-2  hours  will  suffice  to  bake  it.  In  cold  weather  the  batter  should 
be  up  by  daylight  or  early  dawn. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD  No.  i. — This  bread  is  superior  to  common  yeast 
bread  and  is  considered  more  wholesome.  Put  3  teacups  of  water, 
as  warm  as  you  can  hold  your  finger  in,  into  a  quart  cup  or  bowl 
and  3-4  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  quite 
stiff  batter.  This  is  for  the  rising  or  emptying,  as  some  call  it.  Set 
the  bowl,  closely  covered,  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water,  "as  warm  as 
you  can  bear  your  finger  in, "and  keep  it  as  near  this  temperature  as 
possible.  Notice  the  time  when  you  "set  your  rising;"  in  three  hours 
stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  put  it  back,  and  in  5  1-2  hours  from 


22O  ^    RISEN   BREAD. 

the  time  of  <^t'::-,g  it  will  be  within  an  inch  of  the  top  of  your  bowl. 
It  is  then  light  enough  and  will  make  up  eight  quarts  of  flour.  Make 
a  sponge  in  the  center  of  your  flour  with  i  quart  of  water  of  the 
same  temperature  as  the  rising.  Stir  the  rising  into  it,  cover  over 
with  a  little  dry  flour  and  put  it  where  it  will  keep  warm,  but  not 
scald  :  in  3-4  of  an  hour  mix  this  into  stiff  dough,  and  if  water  is 
used,  be  sure  that  it  is  very  warm,  and  do  not  work  as  much  as  yeast 
bread.  Make -the  loaves  a  Ifttle  larger  and  keep  them  warm  for  an- 
other 3-4  of  an  hour.  It  will  then  be  ready  to  bake.  While  rising 
this  last  time  leave  your  oven  heating ;  it  needs  a  hotter  ov&n  than 
yeast  bread.  If  these  rules  are  followed  you  will  -have  bread  as 
white  as  snow,  with  a  light  brown  crust,  deliciously  sweet  and  tender. 

RISEN  CORN  BREAD. — Make  up  the  required  quantity  of  corn 
meal  in  the  morning  or  over  night  with  warm  water  and  a  little  salt ; 
cover  and  set  it  away  in  not  too  cool  a  place,  or  before  the  fire  if 
very  cold.  Then  at  night  or  in  the  morning,  when  the  dough  has 
risen  sufficiently,  add  some  more  meal,  and  work  it  again  well.  Then 
meal  the  bottom  of  the  oven,  divide  into  loaves  or  have  but  one, 
then  put  in  the  dough  and  set  it  to  rise  again.  Bake  slowly  and 
thoroughly,  test  it  by  putting  a  straw  through  the  middle  of  it.  If 
the  straw  be  moist  it  is  not  done.  It  can  be  eaten  in  slices  with 
butter,  either  cold  or  hot.  It  will  keep  well  for  some  days. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD  No.  2. — Pour  into  a  right-sized  bowl  a  pint  of 
new  sweet  milk  and  into  this  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Stir  in  till 
smooth  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  keep  at  the  same  tem- 
perature for  six  hours,  when  it  will  rise  and  should  be  used  at  once. 
Sift  into  a  bowl  3  quarts  of  flour,  pour  in  the  yeast,  add  warm  water 
or  milk  to  wet  up  all  the  flour.  Salt  to  taste,  knead  lightly,  put  into 
pans,  let  it  rise  and  then  bake.  N.  B  In  making  this  bread,  great 
care  is  needed  at  every  stage.  The  yeast  should  be  used  just  when 
it  passes  from  the  saccharine  to  the  various  fermentations  and  be- 
fore it  gets  the  least  sour.  Precisely  at  that  moment  the  raised 
dough  should  be  put  into  the  oven.  The  dough  should  be  as  soft 
when  put  into  the  pans  as  can  be  conveniently  handled. 

Note. — Some  kinds  of  flour  will  not  make  good  salt  rising  bread. 
The  vessel  into  which  the  yeast  is  strained  must  be  scalded  out  and 
be  perfectly  sweet,  or  the  yeast  will  sour  before  it  rises.  Nothing 
stale  should  be  used.  There  is  no  sweeter  or  more  wholesome  bread 
than  this  when  skillfully  made. 

FAVORITE  SCOTCH  BREAD. — One  pound  each  of  flour  or  bread 
crumbs,  sugar,  butter,  8  or  10  eggs,  1-2  pound  of  citron,  candied 
lemon  and  orange  peeling  in  equal  proportions,  4  spoonfuls  of  French 
brandy,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  4  ounces  of  preserved  fruit,  stewed 
or  raw,  chopped  fine  (dark  colored  fruits  should  not  be  used).  Put 


RISEN   BREAD.  221 

the  batter  in  a  bowl  or  deep  dish  and  stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon 
until  of  the  consistency  of  cream,  then  gradually  throw  iq  a  handful 
of  each  ingredient,  2  eggs  at  a  time ;  when  these  ingredients  are 
smoothly  and  thoroughly  blended,  cut  the  candied  peels  into  strings 
and  rub  the  cut  orange  and  lemon  peels'  in  sugar,  and  add  these; 
then  pour  the  paste  into  long  tin  baking  pans,  oiled  with  butter ; 
strew  the  preserves  over  the  surface  ;  then,  before  putting  them  in  the 
stove,  shake  some  sugar  over  them.  Bake  a  light  brown. 

Note. — The  flour,  sugar,  eggs,  brandy  and  salt  should  be  gradually 
added  to  the  butter.  Nice  bread  for  lunch,  breakfast  or  informal 
occasions. 

ITALIAN  BREAD  No.  i. — One  pound  each  of  powdered  loaf  sugar  and 
butter,  i  pound  and  2  ounces  flour,  12  eggs,  1-2  pound  each  of  citron 
and  lemon  peeling  ;  mix  as  for  pound  cake.  If  the  mixture  begins 
to  curdle,  which  it  is  most  likely  to  do,  because  of  the  quantity  of 
eggs,  add  a  little  flour.  When  the  eggs  are  all  used  and  it  is  light, 
stir  in  the  remainder  of  the  flour  slightly.  Bake  it  in  long,  narrow 
tins,  either  papered  or  buttered ;  first  put  in  a  layer  of  the  mixture 
and  cover  it  with  the  peeling  cut  in  thin  slices.  Proceed  in  this  way 
until  it  is  three-fourths  full,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oyen. 

LOUISIANA  BREAD. — Work  a  little  lard  or  butter  into  flour,  ^add  a 
few  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  according  to  strength,  or  a  yeast  'cake 
dissolved  in  water  and  salt,  then  work  up  with  tepid  water.  Hot 
water  must  never  be  used.  Work  to  the  consistency  of  biscuit 
dough.  Set  it  to  rise  for  several  hours.  If  it  burns  before  thoroughly 
done,  fold  a  newspaper  several  times  and  lay  over  it. 

BREAD — To  KEEP  MOIST. — Place  in  the  bread-pan  aboard  pierced 
with  holes,  and  so  -supported  as  to  be  a  couple  of  inches  from  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  ;  let  there  be  an  inch  depth  of  water  in  the  pan  ; 
put  the  bread  on  the  board  and  cover  the  pan  with  the  lid.  The  in- 
closed air  will  prevent  the  bread  from  becoming  too  dry. 

THE  BREAD  I  ATE  AT  HOME. — Save  a  gill  of  bread  dough  made 
with  yeast,  cover  it  tightly  and  place  it  in  a  cool  room  or  cellar  until 
baking-day,  then  make  a  sponge  of  it  by  adding  warm  water  and 
flour  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  this  should  be  done  early ;  in  the 
evening,  when  the  sponge  is  very  light,  mix  the  bread  as  usual  with 
warm  milk  or  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  saleratus,  and 
when  light,  bake.  This  always  insures  light,  sweet  bread,  and  entirely 
does  away  with  yeast-making.  Of  course  a  piece  of  dough  must  be 
saved  each  time. 

BURN  BREAK — (Irish). — The  dough  of  1-2  quarteen  loaf,  2  ounces 
caraway  seeds,  6  ounces  sugar,  4  eggs  and  1-4  pound  of  butter; 
work  it  all  up  together  with  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  of  a  proper 
consistency  to  bake.  This  takes  half  hour  to  do.  Make  into  a  round 
cake  or  loaf  and  bake. 


222  STALE    BREAD. 

OUR  OWN  BREAJD. — Set  your  sponge  over  night  with  i<2  pint  of 
lukewarm  water,  i  teaspoonful  of  yeast  and  i  pint  of  flour  (measure 
before  sifting).  In  the  morning  add  1-2  cup  of  milk  (in  water  with 
a  little  butter  in  it),  and  stir  into  the  sponge  with  a  spoonful  of  lime 
water  and  i  pint  of  flour.  Knead  into  2  loaves  and  put  them  into 
pan  to  rise.  Bake  1-2  hour. 

STALE   BREAD. 

To  RENEW  OLD  BREAD. — Soak  the  bread  in  enough  water  to 
moisten  it  sufficiently  to  dampen  it  inside.  Then  put  into  a  bake 
oven  and  heat  very  hot  all  through,  even  to  bake  it  a  little  would 
not  hurt  it.  Do  not  cover  the  oven.  In  this  way  old  and  dry  bread 
may  be  made  moist  and  good,  no  matter  what  kind,  if  it  is  not  musty 
or  moldy. 

To  ECONOMIZE  STALE  OR  SOUR  BREAD,  CRUST  AND  CRUMBS. — Put 
them  into  a  stove  and  bake  them  slowly  for  several  hours  ;  then  soak 
them  a«d  make  pudding  and  griddle  cakes  and  even  sponge  cake. 
The  sour  bread  should  have  a  little  salaratus  added  to  the  batter 
when  it  is  used  for  that  purpose  to  correct  the  acidity.  N.  B.  Rich 
cake  that  has  wine  or  brandy  in  it  will  keep  several  months  if  kept  in 
a  cool,  dry  place.  The  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten  put  it  in  a  cake 
pan  and  set  it  in  a  bake  pan  that  has  a  cup  of  water  in  it.  Set  on  the 
bake  pan  cover  and  let  the  cake  bake  till  it  is  thoroughly  heated. 
Let  it  be  cold  before  it  is  eaten. 

USES  OF  STALE  BREAD. — When  pounded  or  crumbled  fine,  and 
boiled  milk  poured  over  it,  it  is  nice.  These  crumbs,  mixed  with  an 
equal  portion  of  stewed  fruit  and  mixed  well  with  common  custard 
and  baked,  make  an  excellent  light  pudding  or  custard.  The  cust- 
ard, thickened  with  the  crumbs  without  the  fruit,  forms  a  good  pud- 
ding, or  remnants  of  fish,  meat  or  fowl  chopped  fine  and  mixed 
with  such  crumbs,  with  sufficient  egg  and  a  little  butter,  form  a  nice 
meat  pudding  when  baked.  It  should  be  floured.  This  can  also 
be  dressed  as  hash  with  a  little  milk  and  water,  salt  and  pepper  in  a 
stew  pan,  or  fried  in  small  balls. 

STALE  BREAD — EIGHT  WAYS  TO  USE  IT. — i.  To  make  dressing  for 
meat,  crumble  fine,  turn  hot  broth  over  it,  season,  add  butter  and  a 
well-beaten  egg  or  more,  according  to  quantity.  2.  To  make  bread- 
pudding,  soak  two  hours  in  sweet  milk,  then  beat  in  eggs,  sugar,  spices 
and  bake  ;  fruit  may  be  added  if  liked.  3.  To  make  biscuit,  soak 
over  night  in  sour  milk,  work  with  the  hands,  mix  with  your  biscuit 
for  breakfast,  adding  salt,  lard  and  soda ;  they  are  better  than  with- 
out the  stale  bread.  4.  To  make  pancakes  01  gems,  soak  10  hours 
in  sour  milk,  add  well-beaten  eggs,  com  meal  or  Graham  flour 


STALE    BREAD.  223 

to  make  a  batter,  add  soda  and  salt  and  bake  on  a  griddle  or  in 
gem  pans.  5.  Crumb  fine  and  put  in  the  next  omelet  you  make.  6. 
Toast  your  bread  ;  set  a  pan  of  milk  on  the  stove,  but  do  not  re- 
move the  cream  from  it,  add  butter  and  salt,  dip  the  bread  in  this 
and  send  to  the  table  for  supper  or  breakfast.  7.  Crumb  fine  and 
put  in  your  tomatoes  when  you  are  stewing  them.  8.  Pound  fine, 
season  and  roll  oyster  or  fish  in  them  and  fry  in  nice  lard. 

How  TO  SAVE  STALE  BREAD. — Stale  bread  may  be  made  as  nicely 
as  if  freshly-baked  by  dipping  the  loaf  into  clean  cold  water  and 
warming  thoroughly  in  a  bakeoven.  Much  bread  might  be  saved  in 
this  way. 

STALE  BREAD  can  be  renewed  by  putting  it  for  20  minutes  in  a  hot 
stove  or  oven — not  too  hot.  It  is  best  to  put  a  damp  cloth  over  it, 
or  moisten  the  bread  with  cold  water  and  let  it  remain  in  the  stove 
or  oven  until  the  water  is  evaporated. 

To  FRESHEN  STALE  BREAD. — Dip  the  loaf  wrapped  in  a  clean 
cloth  into  boiling  water  for  1-2  a  minute,  then  take  off  the  cloth  and 
bake  the  loaf  for  10  or  15  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

BRKAD  CRUMBS. — Take  a  piece  of  the  crust  of  a  stale  loaf,  not 
too  hard,  put  it  in  a  cloth,  bruise  it  well  with  your  hand  till  it  falls  in 
crumbs,  pass  it  through  either  a  wire  sieve  or  colander  and  use  when 
required. 

To  KEEP  cold  bread  or  cakes  from  becoming  stale,  keep  them  in 
a  common  terre  cotta  or  pottery  jar,  with  a  close  cover  of  the  same 
over  the  top.  The  jar  should  be  perfectly  dry.  This  should  be 
seen  to. 

POTATO  BREAD. 

VIRGINIA  GRANGER  POTATO  BREAD. — Boil  the  potatoes  not  quite 
so  soft  as  common,  then  dry  them  a  short  time  on  the  fire,  peel  them 
while  hot  and  pound  them  as  fine  as  possible ;  next  put  small  quan- 
tity of  pearl  ash  to  new  yeast ;  while  it  is  working  briskly  add  as 
much  rye  meal  or  flour  as  can  be  worked  in  ;  mix  the  whole  well  to- 
gether, but  do  not  add  any  water  to  it  (but  some  butter  or  sweet 
lard  if  desired).  After  the  dough  is  thus  prepared  let  it  stand  an 
hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours  before  it  is  put  in  the  oven.  Observe 
it  will  not  require  so  long  baking  as  regular  wheat  bread. 

SWEET  POTATO  BREAD. — Take  the  same  dough  of  which  you 
make  your  family  bread,  leaving  out  one-fourth  of  the  flour,  putting 
in  the  same  quantity  of  Irish  potatoes  mashed  very  fine  while  hot,  or 
more ;  if  sweet  potatoes,  in  the  same  way.  Work  thoroughly  till 
the  potatoes  are  thoroughly  incorporated,  not  forgetting  a  little  lard 
or  butter  and  salt.  N.  B.  When  swept  potatoes  are  boiled  add  a 


224  POTATO    BREAD. 

* 

piece  of  charcoal.  If  white  Irish  potatoes,  add  a  pinch  of  soda. 
The  soda  or  charcoal  improves  them  very  much. 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE— (A  Florida  Recipe). — Grate  the  sweet  po- 
tatoes, 2  cups  flour,  sweeten  with  molasses,  sugar  or  honey  to  taste. 
Bake  a  long  time.  May  be  eaten  cold  or  warm. 

To  MAKE  GOOD  HOMEMADE  BREAD.— One  quart  of  flour,  i 
large  tablespoonful  of  solid  brewer's  yeast  or  nearly  i  ounce  of  fresh 
Get  man  yeast,  i  1-4  to  i  1-2  pints  of  milk  and  water.  Put  the  flour 
into  a  large  bowl  or  deep  pan  ;  then  with  strong  metal  or  wooden 
spoon  hollow  out  the  middle,  but  do  not  clear  it  entirely  away  from 
the  bottom  of  the  pan,  as,  in  that  case,  the  sponge  (or  leaven,  as  it 
was  formerly  termed),  would  stick  to  it,  which  it  ought  not  to  do. 
Next  take  either  a  large  tablespoonful  of  brewer's  yeast,  which  has 
been  rendered  solid  by  mixing  it  with  plenty  of  cold  water,  (and 
letting  it  afterwards  stand  to  settle  a  day  and  night) ;  or  nearly  an 
ounce  of  German  yeast;  put  it  into  a  large  basin,  and  proceed  to 
mix,  so  that  it  shall  be  as  smooth  as  cream,  with  3-4  of  a  pint  of 
warm  inilk  and"  water,  or  with  water  only  ;  though  even  a  very  little 
milk  will  improve  the  bread.  Pour  the  yeast  into  the  hole  made  in 
the  flour  and  stir  into  it  as  much  of  that  which  lies  round  it  as  will 
make  a  thick  batter,  in  which  there  must  be  no  lumps.  Strew  plenty 
of  flour  on  the  top,  throw  a  clean,  thick  cloth  over  and  set  it  where 
the  air  is  warm,  but  do  not  place  it  upon  the  stove,  for  it  will  become 
too  much  heated  there.  Look  at  it  from  time  to  time ;  when  it  has 
been  lam  for  nearly  an  hour,  and  when  the  yeast  has  risen  and  broken 
through  the  flour,  so  that  bubbles  appear  in  it,  you  will  know  that  it 
is  ready  to  be  made  up  into  dough.  Then  place  the  pan  on  a  strong 
chair,  or  dresser,  or  table,  of  convenient  height;  pour  into  the  sponge 
the  remainder  of  the  warm  milk  and  water;  stir  into  it  as  much  of 
of  the  flour  as  you  can  with  the  spoon ;  then  wipe  it  out  clean  with 
the  fingers  and  lay  it  aside.  Next  take  plenty  of  the  remaining 
flour,  throw  it  on  the  top  of  the  leaven,  and  begin  with  the  knuckles 
of  both  hands  to  knead  it  well.  When  the  flour  is  nearly  all  kneaded 
in,  begin  to  draw  the  edges  of  the  dough  towards  the  middle,  in 
order  to  mix  the  whole  thoroughly  ;  and  when  it  is  free  from  flour 
and  lumps  and  crumbs,  and  does  not  stick  to  the  hands  whentouchd, 
it  will  be  done,  and  may  again  be  covered  with  the  cloth  and  left  to 
rise  a  second  time.  In  3-4  of  an  hour  look  at  it,  and  should  it  have 
swollen  very  much  and  begin  to  crack,  it  will  be  light  enough  to  bake. 
Turn  it  then  into  a  pasteboard  or  very  clean  dresser,  and  with  a  sharp 
knife  divide  it  in  two,  make  it  up  quickly  into  loaves  and  dispatch 
them  to  the  oven ;  make  one  or  two  incisions  across  the  tops  of  the 
loaves,  as  they  will  rise  n>pre  readily  if  this  be  done.  If  baked 
in  tins  or  pans  rub  them  with  a  tiny  piece  of  butter  laid  on  a, 


POTATO   BREAD.  22$ 

^ 

piece  of  clean  paper  to  prevent  the  dough  from  sticking  to  them. 
All  bread  should  be  turned  up  side  down,  or  on  its  side,  as  soon  as 
it  is  drawn  from  the  oven.  If  this  be  neglected  the  under  part  of 
the  loaves  will  become  wet  and  blistered  from  the  steam,  which  can- 
not then  escape  from  them  To  make  the  dough  without  setting 
the  sponge,  merely  mix  the  yeast  with  the  gVeater  part  of  the 
warm  milk  and  water,  and  wet  up  the  whole  with  flour  at  once 
after  a  little  salt  has  been  stirred  in,  proceeding  exactly  in  every 
other  respect  as  in  the  directions  just  given.  As  the  dough  will 
soften  in  the  rising,  it  should  be  made  quite  firm  at  first,  or  it  will 
be  too  lithe  by  the  time  it  is  ready  for  the  oven.  Time  to  be  left  to 
rise,  i  hour  the  first  time ;  3-4  of  an  hour  the  second  time ;  to  be 
baked  from  i  to  i  1-4  hours,  or  baked  in  one  loaf  from  i  i-a  to  a 
hours. 

OAT  MEAL  AND  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

OAT  MEAL  CAKES  (Scotch)  FOR  BREAKFAST. — Put  some  oatmeal 
in  a  bowl  or  basin,  take  a  pitcherful  of  boiling  water,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  butter  or  melted  lard  in  it,  to  make  the  cakes  crisp  ; 
pour  this  boiling  hot  over  the  meal,  stirring  as  quickly  as  possi- 
ble into  a  dough,  and  then  turning  it  out  upon  a  baking  board, 
upon  which  it  is  to  be  rolled  till  it  is  as  thin  as  it  will  hold  to- 
gether, when  it  is  to  be  stamped  into  the  form  of  small,  round 
cakes.  These  are  first  to  be  placed  on  a  griddle  to  make  them 
firm,  and  afterwards  toasted  before  the  fire  alternately  on  each 
side,  till  they  are  quite  dry  and  crisp. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. — One  quart  of  buckwheat  flour,  one  half 
cup  yeast,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  and  one-half  basin  water ; 
beat  well  with  a  large  spoon ;  let  them  rise  over  night ;  in  the 
morning  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salaratus  and  fry. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES  No.  2. — Three  pints  of  buckwheat  flour 
sifted,  a  little  salt,  1-2  pint  of  cornmeal,  1-2  teacup  of  brewer's 
yeast  or  4  large  tablespoonfuls  home-made  yeast,  and  enough  milk- 
warm  water  to  make  a  batter.  Mix  all  together,  then  make  a  hole 
in  the  middle  of  the  meal  and  pour  in  the  yeast.  Then  slowly  add 
sufficient  milk  and  warm  water  to  make  a  thick  batter  after  the  yeast 
is  added.  Cover  the  vessel  and  let  it  rise  for  3  hours.  If  it  is  cov- 
ered with  bubbles  and  risen  enough  it  is  ready  to  bake.  Have  your 
griddle  clean  and  hot.  Tie  a  piece  of  batter  in  a  clean  white  rag 
and  grease  the  griddle  well ;  have  a  saucer  near  to  put  it  in  when 
not  in  use.  Pour  out  a  large  ladleful  on  the  griddle  to  bake  ;  when 
brown  turn  with  the  cake  turner,  and  bake  brown  on  the  other  side. 
Scrape  the  griddle  smooth  with  a  knife, 'wipe,  and  grease  it  between 


126  OAT  MEAL  AND   BUCKWHEAT   CAKES. 

baking  each  cake,  and  as  fast  as  one  is  done  butter  it,  and  put  it  on 
the  other  in  a  hot  plate.  If  the  cakes  are  large  cut  them  across  in 
four  pieces.  Trim  off  the  edges  before  sending  them  to  the  table,when 
re-buttered  they  can  be  re-battered  if  wished.  If  the  batter  has  been 
made  the  night  before  and  found  sour  in  the  morning,add  1-4  teaspoon 
of  soda  or  saleratus  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water;  stir  it  in,  and  let 
it  stand  i  hour  before  baking.  The  alkali  will  neutralize  the  acid, 
and  increase  the  lightening  of  the  batter.  If  soda  be  used,  add  t 
teaspoonful.  The  batter  should  not  be  allowed  to  freeze,  as  it  will 
not  be  fit  for  use.  No  animal  fat  should  be  used  to  grease  the 
griddle. 

INDIAN  AND  PUMPKIN  CAKES. — Stir  an  equal  portion  of  cornmeal 
into  an  equal  portion  of  stewed  pumpkin  that  has  been  well  mashed 
and  drained  in  a  cloth  or  collender,  in  a  pan,  adding  the  meal  gra- 
dually; add  1-2  cup  butter,  mix  thoroughly.  If  not  stiff  enough, 
add  more  meal  to  form  a  dough.  Make  it  into  cakes  or  loaves, 
Bake  them  on  a  hot  griddle  well  greased,with  butter,  as  for  muffins,  or 
in  an  iron  pan,  in  an  oven;  bake  them  in  loaves.  Serve  hot  and  eat 
with  butter  or  milk 

RICE  BREAD. 

RICE  BREAD. — Boil  gently  over  a  slow  fire  one  pound  and  a  half 
of  rice  till  it  becomes  perfectly  soft,  then  make  into  a  paste  by  beat- 
ing it.  While  warm  mix  it  into  four  pounds  of  flour,  adding  the 
usual  quantity  of  yeast.  Set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  ;  after  divide 
it  into  loaves,  and  it  will  be  found  when  baked  to  be  very  nice 
bread. 

RICE  BREAD. — Three  teacups  of  rice  flour,  i  of  wheat  flour,  i 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar  rubbed  in  the  flour,  2  or  3  eggs 
well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter,  1-2  teaspoonful  of 
soda  and  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  the  batter  smooth  and  of  the 
consistency  of  pound  cake. 

RICE  PAN  BREAD. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  hominy,  i  spoon- 
ful of  butter ;  when  cold,  add  2  capfuls  of  rice  flour,  and  make  a 
batter  with  sweet  milk  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

RICE  AND  WHEAT  FLOUR  BREAD. — Simmer  i  Ib.  rice  in  1-2  gallon 
of  water  till  it  becomes  perfectly  soft ;  when  it  is  of  proper  warmth, 
mix  it  extremely  well  with  5  pounds  of  flour,  4  large  spoonfuls  of 
yeast.  Knead  it  well,  then  set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  or  before 
the  fire.  Some  of  the  flour  should  be  reserved  to  make  up  the 
loaves.  If  the  rice,  in  boiling,  should  swell  so  as  to  require  more 
water,  add  it ;  do  not  have  the  water  too  hot,  but  ptmr  in  gradually. 
Stir  with  a  wooden  or  iron  spoon  so  as  to  form  a  soft  dough.  Cover 


RICE   BREAD.  227 

the  pan  and  set  it  away;  if  cold,  by  the  fire.  In  the  morning  pour 
in  another  pint  of  warm  water  in  which  1-2  teaspoonful  of  soda  has 
been  dissolved,  so  as  to  form  a  batter.  Beat  the  batter  hard,  set  it 
before  the  fire  or  stove  for  fifteen  minutes  before  baking.  Let  the 
cakes  be  thin.  Eat  them  hot  with  honey,  butter,  sugar  or  molasses, 

ITALIAN  BREAD. — Boil  the  rice  flour  or  chestnut  meal  as  oatmeal 
porridge,  then  turn  it  out  on  a  dish  and  cut  in  slices  with  a  twine 
string  and  serve  for  breakfast ;  very  nice. 

RICE  CORN  BREAD.  — Take  one  pint  of  well  boiled  rice,  one  pint 
of  cornmeal,  one  ounce  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder ;  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  then 
add  the  milk  and  melted  butter ;  beat  the  rice  until  perfectly  smooth 
and  add  to  the  eggs  and  milk,  Lastly,  add  the  cornmeal ;  beat  all 
together  until  very  light. 

EGG  BREAD. — Use  from  one  to  as  many  eggs  well  beaten  as  you 
can  afford  for  the  quantity  of  cornmeal  designed  to  be  used,  or  3 
eggs  to  i  quart,  1-2  cupful  of  fresh  butter,  salt  to  taste,  i  cup  of 
milk  or  more,  mix  the  eggs  and  milk  together,  gradually  stirring  in 
the  meal",  then  add  the  salt  and  butter.  It  must  be  a  thick  batter, 
but  thin  enough  to  be  stirred  easily  with  a  spoon.  If  too  stiff  more 
milk  can  be  added;  it  must  be  beaten  well  to  have  all  the  ingredi- 
ents thoroughly  blended.  This  can  be  put  in  a  buttered  tin  or  iron 
pan  as  one  loaf,  or  they  can  be  divided  into  smaller  loaves.  The 
oven  should  be  moderately  hot  at  first,  and  the  heat  increased  after- 
wards. It  should  bake  in  proportion  to  thickness  from  11-2  to  2 
hours.  In  baking  good  bread  nothing  has  taken  the  place  of  the 
Dutch  oven.  The  loaf  can  be  cut  at  the  table  and  eaten  hot  with 
butter,  sugar  or  molasses. 

EGG  WHEAT  BREAD. — Four  cups  flour,  2  cups  cornmeal,  1.2  cup 
of  butter  or.  lard,  4  eggs,  salt  to  taste,  one  cup  of  new  milk ;  mix 
the  eggs,  butter,  milk  and  salt  and  beat  till  light.  Stir  while  gradu- 
ally adding  the  flour  and  meal,  then  bake  in  buttered  pans  as  for  egg 
bread.  Bread  can  be  made  of  coarse  brown  flour  in  the  same 
way. 

AERATED  BREAD  No. i. — A  process  has  recently  been  patented  for 
making  bread  "light"  without  the  use  of  leaven.  It  is  done  by  the  ap- 
plication of  machinery,  by  which  means  carbonic  acid  gas  or  fixed 
air  is  made  to  impregnate  the  bread.  Thus  the  long  and  tedious 
and  fatiguing  manual  process  of  kneading  the  dough  in  order  that 
it  might  be  thoroughly  inter-penetrated  with  the  leavening  principle 
is  set  aside,  thus  emancipating  the  housewife  and  baker  from  a  vast 
amount  of  labor.  There  are,  however,  different  opinions  about 
the  bread,  but  why  may  not  the  process  of  bread  making  and 
baking  undergo  a  change  as  well  as  other  things,  for  wheat,  corn,&c., 


228  RICE    BREAD. 

were  once  reaped  by  the  hands  ?  The  only  agents  employed  in  the 
production  of  aerated  bread  by  machinery  are  wheaten  flour,  salt, 
water  and  generated  corbonic  acid  gas,  which  is  the  source  of  effer- 
vescence, and  its  action  on  the  new  bread  takes  the  place  of  the  old. 
It  is  the  same  gas,  whether  coming  from  aerated  drinks  or  lemon- 
ade, in  common  water  coming  from  the  lowest  excavations. 

In  this  aerated  process  the  kneading  is  done  by  mixing  the  dougn 
in  a  great  iron  ball,  inside  of  which  is  perpetually  passing  a  system  of 
peddles,  a  light  nice  looking  dough  is  soon  produced.  This  is  caught 
in  thus,  and  passed  into  the  floor  of  the  oven,  which  is  an  endless  floor, 
when  the  loaves  emerge  from  the  other  end  of  the  apartment,  when 
the  aerated  bread  is  done  or  made.  NOTE — It  is  sometimes  a  good 
plan  to  change  one's  baker  from  time  to  time,  and  so  secure  a 
change  in  the  quality  of  the  bread  that  is  eaten. 

FRENCH  APPLE  BREAD. — One-third  warm  pulp  of  apple,  two-thirds 
of  flour  and  the  usual  quantity,  of  yeast  (the  apples  should  be  boiled)  ; 
work  all  well  together,  then  set  to  rise  in  a  vessel  to  its  utmost  for 
eight  or  twelve  hours  ;  then  form  into  long,  low  loaves ;  bake  thor- 
ough in  a  moderate  oven. 

N.  B.  Little  or  no  water  or  milk  is  necessary ;  add  salt  to  taste ; 
eat  hot  with  milk,  butter  or  coffee. 

APPLE  BREAD,  RUSSTAN  FASHION. — (Mrs.  B.)  Put  11-2  cups  of 
good  white  sugar  fn  3  cups  of  water  in  a  copper  preserving  pan  with  a 
round  bottom ;  set  it  on  a  quick  fire  and  reduce  it  so  that  it  will  snap 
between  your  fingers  ;  having  peeled  and  cut  Into  slices  two  dozen 
good,  sound,  ripe  apples,  put  them  into  the  sugar,  stirring  constantly 
till  it  becomes  quite  a  thick  marmalade  ;  remove  it  from  the  fire,  pour 
it  into  a  slightly  oiled  or  buttered  colander  mould;  shake  it  well 
down,  then  set  it  to  cool,  when  turn  it  out  on  a  dish,  then  melt  in  a 
stew-pan  over  the  fire  ;  a  few  spoonfuls  of  currant  jelly;  add  2  glasses 
of  old,  good  rum,  and  when  partly  cold  pour  over  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream  in  the  center,  in  which  you  have  placed  4  ounces  of 
candied  orange  flowers.  What  remains  over  will  make  delightful 
croquettes. 

APPLE  CORN  BREAD. — Two  pints  each  of  new  corn  meal  and 
sweet  milk,  i  quart  of  finely  chopped  mellow  apples  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  ;  eaten  hot  at  any  meal  with  but- 
ter, milk  coffee  or  gravy. 

LEMON  BREAD. — (Mrs.  Kull,  of  Hamburg.)  Four  whole  eggs,  the 
yolks  of  4,  i  pound  wet  sugar,  and  lemon  chopped  very  fine;  4  oz 
citron  chopped  fine,  6  oz.  flour  well  worked  or  beaten ;  roll  on  a 
board  thin ;  cut  out  in  shon  and  bake.  * 

CHOCOLATE  BREAD. — (Mrs.  Kull,  of  Hamburg.)  Two  eggs  bea- 
ten to  snow  1-2  pound  sugar,  4  ounces  chocolate,  a  little  vanilla  to 


RICE    BREAD.  22Q 

flavor  with  sufficient  flour  to  cut  into  form.     Frost  with  sugar  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  stove. 

MIXED  BREAD. — One  half  gallon  of  meal  and  i  pint  of  bread 
sponge  ;  soak  sufficiently  to  wet  the  whole;  add  i  cup  of  flour  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  let  it  rise,  then  knead  it  well  the  second 
time,  and  place  the  dough  in  the  oven  and  bake  one  hour  and  a 
half. 

CORN  BREAD. — A  heaping  cupful  of  corn  meal,  scald  it  with  hot 
water,  2  cupfuls  of  cooked  hominy,  2  eggs  and  a  cupful  of  milk  and 
some  butter ;  stir  well,  then  butter  and  bake  in  a  pan  or  shaper. 

PUMPKIN  BREAD, — Mash  the  cooked  pumpkin  very  fine  and  strain 
through  a  colander,  then  work  in  either  corn  or  wheat  flour  and  add 
yeast  as  you  would  to  wheat  bread ;  add  a  little  butter  or  lard,  work 
it  thoroughly,  then  let  rise,  and  bake  as  other  bread.  It  is  best  to 
grease  the  pan  before  putting  the  dough  in. 

BREAD  SNOW  RAISED. — It  has  been  discovered  that  snow  incor- 
porated with  flour  or  corn  meal  performs  the  same  office  as  yeast  or 
baking  powder ;  add  enough  snow,  say  a  heaping  spoonful  into  dry 
flour  or  meal,  to  which  has  been  added  a  little  butter  and  salt ;  set 
in  the  oven  at  once  and  bake  3-4  hours.  I  speak  from  experi- 
ence. 

FOR  BREAKFAST,  CRACKLING  OR  SHORT  CORN  BREAD. — Take  the 
desired  quantity  of  meal  and  cracklings  or  lard,  accoading  to  the 
richness,  a  spoonful  of  salt  (more  or  less),  pour  in  warm  water  and 
knead  the  dough,  then  bake  brown  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Not 
often  eaten  with  butter,  but  it  is  excellent  to  eat  with  good  coffee. 
Bake  in  small  or  large  loaves  not  too  hard. 

FINE  FRENCH  BREAD. — Take  i  gallon  of  the  finest  flour,  and, 
having  well-sifted  it  into  a  kneading  trough,  form  a  ravity  in  the  flour, 
into  which  strain  i  cupful  of  warm  milk  and  the  choicest  yeast ; 
mix  some  of  the  surrounding  flour  so  as  to  form  a  light  sponge, 
then  having  covered  it  up  with  a  linen  and  a  flannel  cloth,  place  it 
before  the  fire  to  lise  for  45  minutes;  and,  having  warmed  i  1-2 
pints  of  milk  with  i  cup  of  water,  1-4  pound  of  fresh  butter,  a  spoon- 
ful of  powdered  sugar  (loaf),  and  a  little  salt,  knead  it  to  a  proper 
consistency  and  place  it  again  before  the  fire.  After  once  more 
kneading  it  and  placing  it  to  rise,  form  the  dough  into  loaves,  bricks 
or  rolls  of  one  size  or  shape  and  lay  them  on  tin  plates ;  set  them 
before  the  fire  to  rise  for  20  minutes,  and,  having  baked  them  in  a 
quick  oven,  let  the  crust  be  rasped  or  chipped  off  while  hot.  Some 
persons  put  in  butter  and  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites. 

To  MAKE  A  PECK  OF  GOOD  BREAD. — Three  pounds  of  potatoes, 
6  pints  uf  cold»water,  1-2  pint  of  good  yeast,  i  peck  ot  flour,  2  oz. 
of  salt.  Peel  and  boil  the  potatoes  ;  beat  them  to  a  cream  while 


230  DUMPLINGS. 

warm  ;  then  add  i  pint  of  cold  water,  strain  through  a  colander  and 
add  to  it  1-2  pint  of  good  yeast,  which  should  have  been  put  in 
water  over  night  to  take  off  its  bitterness.  Stir  all  well  together  with 
a  wooden  spoon,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the  center  of  the  flour; 
mix  it  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  cover  it  over  closely  and  let  it 
remain  near  the  fire  for  an  hour ;  then  add  the  6  pints  oi  water  and  milk 
warm  with  2  oz.  of  salt ;  pour  this  in  and  mix  the  whole  to  a  nice, 
light  dough.  Let  it  remain  for  about  2  hours  ;  then  make  it  into  7 
loaves  and  bake  for  about  i  1-2  hours  in  a  good  oven.  When  baked 
the  bread  should  weigh  nearly  20  pounds.  Bake  11-2  hours. 

SWIFT  YEAST  BREAD. -Grate  1-2  a  dozen  potatoes  and  add  i  quart  of 
water;  put  in  i  cup  of  hop  yeast  at  night,  and  in  the  morning, 
when  light,  add  3  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  flour  to  form  a  dough, 
when  put  it  in  tins  ;  let  it  rise  again  and  bake  for  1-2  an  hour. 

DUMPLINGS. 

SUET  AND  CURRANT  DUMPLINGS. — Of  grated  bread  2  cupfuls,  2  of 
currants  picked,  washed  and  dried,  6  oz  suet  chopped  very  fine  and 
put  in  a  small  portiqn  of  hot  water,  3-4  of  a  cup  of  flour,  a^great  deal 
of  grated  lemon  peeling,  a  bit  of  sugar  and  a  little  piminto  in  fine 
powder;  mix  with  2  eggs  and  a  little  milk  into  dumplings  and  fry  of 
yellow  brown  in  boiling  lard  or  cotton  seed  oil.  Made  with  flour 
instead  of  bread,  but  1-2  the  quantity,  they  are  excellent.  Serve 
with  sweet  sauce  flavored  to  taste. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. — Make  the  paste  as  for  pies,  then  pare  and 
core  nice,  sound,  ripe  apples  (on  account  of  the  flavor  some  prefer 
not  to  take  the  core  out),  inclose  them  in  the  dough  paste  and  dip 
them  into  boiling  water.  They  will  soon  be  done,  and  should  not 
be  permitted  to  burst  open.  Eat  them  hot  with  sauce  as  for  boiled 
dumplings.  Flour  stirred  into  boiling  water,  or  the  paste  made  with 
hot  water,  or  with  Irish  potatoes  and  a  little  salt,  is  very  good  mashed 
to  a  cream  while  hot,  and  mixed  with  the  flour  and  hot  water  form 
a  paste  without  lard  or  butter.  Eat  with  a  rich  sauce  flavored  with 
lemon  peel. 

LEMON  DUMPLINGS. — Take  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon  and 
1-2  pound  of  bread;  grate  both  very  fine,  and  add  1-2  pound  of  suet, 
chopped  fine,  4  oz.  moist  sugar,  mix  all  well  together,  put  it  in  tea- 
cups tied  on  with  cloths  and  boil  them. 

YEAST  DUMPLINGS. — Make  a  very  light  dough  with  yeast,  as  for 
bread,  but  with  milk  instead  of  water,  and  put  in  salt ;  let  it  rise  an 
hour  before  the  fire.  Twenty  minutes  before  you  are  to  serve  have 
ready  a  large  stew-pan  of  boiling  water ;  make  the  dough  into  balls 
the  st^q  of  a  middling  apple ;  throw  them  in  and  boil  ?Q  minutes. 


DUMPLINGS.  231 

If  you  doubt  whether  done  enough,  stick  a  straw  or  clean  knife  or 
into  one,  and  if  it  come  out  clean  it  is  done.  The  way  to  eat  them 
is  to  tear  them  apart  at  the  top  with  two  forks,  for  they  become  heavy 
by  their  own  steam.  Eat  immediately  with  meat  or  sugar  and  but- 
ter or  salt. 

„  CHARLESTON  DUMPLINGS. — Make  a  good,  thick  batter,  as  for  pan- 
cakes, drop  it  into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water.  When  the  dump- 
lings are  done,  which  will  be  in  2  or  3  minutes,  throw  them  into  a 
sieve  to  drain,  and  then  turn  them  into  a  dish.  Eat  with  sugar  and 
butter  and  grated  lemon  peel. 

SNOW  DUMPLINGS. — Pare  and  core  several  apples  ;  wash  a  pint  of 
rice  and  roll  the  apples  in  it,  so  that  the  rice  will  adhere ;  have  ready 
a  nice  piece  of  pie  crust,  wrap  the  apples  in  a  piece  of  the  dough 
and  roll  the  dumplings  in  rice  again,  and  so  on  until  you  use  up  all 
the  apples.  Put  a  napkin  in  the  steamer,  place  it  over  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water,  put  in  the  dumplings  and  steam  till  done.  Eat  with  cream 
sauce. — Mrs.  Genett. 

CHERRY  DUMPLINGS. — Strew  cherries  on  pie-paste  rolled  thin.  The 
seeds  may  or  may  not  be  removed,  then  rolled  up  and  boiled  as  for 
boiled  lemon  dumplings  ;  1-2  pound  grated  bread,  1-4  each  chop- 
ped suet  and  moist  sugar,  2  eggs,  i  large  lemon.  Mix  the  bread, 
suet  and  moist  sugar  well  together,  adding  the  lemon  peeling,  which 
should  be  finely  minced.  Moisten  with  the  eggs  and  strained  lemon 
juice  ;  stir  it  well  and  put  the  mixture  into  small  buttered  cups.  Tie 
them  down  and  boil  for  3-4  of  an  hour.  Turn  them  out  on  a  dish, 
strew  sifted  sugar  over  them  and  serve  with  wine  sauce.  Boil  3-4 
of  an  hour.  Sufficient  for  6  dumplings.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

CORN  MEAL  DUMPLINGS.— Make  a  thick  dough  of  i  pint  of  meal 
and  scalding  water,  i  spoonful  of  lard,  a  large  pinch  each  of  salt 
and  soda.  Put  in  a  bag  and  boil  i  hour.  Serve  hot  for  dinner  with 
gravy  or  meat. 

GREEN  CORN  DUMPLINGS.— A  quart  of  grated  green  corn  or  roast- 
ing ears,  1-2  pint  of  new  milk  or  cream,  i  cup  of  flour,  2  cups  of 
butter,  2  eggs,  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  butter  for  frying. 
Mix  the  corn  with  the  flour  and  add  the  salt  and  pepper.  The  corn 
should  be  grated  very  fine.  Warm  the  milk  and  soften  the  butter  in 
it,  then  add  them  gradually  to  the.  pan  of  corn,  stirring  it  very  hard 
and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Beat  the  eggs  till  light,  and  stir  them  into 
the  mixture  when  it  has  cooled.  Flour  your  hands  and  roll  it  into 
little  dumplings.  Put  into  a  frying-pan  a  sufficiency  of  lard  or  but- 
ter, or  an  equal  proportion  of  both,  and  when  it  is  boiling  hot  and 
has  been  skimmed,  drop  the.  dumplings  carefully  in  and  fry  them  10 
or  12  minutes  in  proportion  to  their  thickness. 

Sue.'!'  DUMPLINGS.— Chop  very  fine   i  pound  of  beef  suet ;  mix 


232  DUMPLINGS. 

with  i  1-2  pounds  of  flour,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  little  salt  and 
just  enough  milk  to  make  it.  Make  them  flat — as  large  as  a  coffee 
cup— and  as  thick  as  you  like,  or  roll  them  into  balls  and  drop  them 
in  boiling  water  or  into  the  boiling  of  beef,  or  you  may  roll  the  paste 
into  a  long  dumpling  and  boil  it  in  a  cloth  wrapped  closely  around 
it.  Eat  with  sauce. 

BREAD  AND  SUET  DUMPLINGS. — Take  1-2  pound  of  grated  bread, 
i  -  2  pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  very  fine,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
i  lemon,  4  oz.  of  moist  sugar  and  2  eggs.  Mix  all  together  and  make 
5  dumplings;  boil  them  in  cloths  1-2  an  hour  and  serve  with  sweet, 
rich  sauce. 

PASTE  DUMPLINGS.— The  paste  made  as  for  boiled  dumplings  and 
rolled  very  thin,  then  put  a  mere  trifle  of  butter  over  the  paste  and  roll 
up  and  boil.  Eat  in  the  same  manner  with  seasoned  sauce  as  for 
boiled  dumplings. 

BOILED  DUMPLINGS.-  -Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  the  whites 
separately,  as  for  pound  cake,  then  add  a  little  salt,  flour,  i  cup  of 
butter  to  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  stir  till  smooth  ;  then  add  the 
whites  and  more  flour  until  it  is  stifl  enough  to  be  be  rolled  out  with 
a  rollingpin  on  a  floured  pasteboard;  then  roll  it  up  and  put  it  into 
a  bag  and  wrap  it  closely,  so  that  it  may  not  spread.  It  is  better  to 
sew  it  in.  Boil  3-4  of  an  hour.  Unwrap  it  and  lay  it  on  a  dish, 
slice  and  eat  hot  with  a  rich  sauce  also  hot,  or  with  a  sauce  of  cream 
and  sugar,  or  butter  and  sugar  cold.  Season  to  taste. 

HARD  DUMPLINGS —One  pound  of  flour,  1-2  pint  of  water,  1-2 
teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  the  flour  and  water  together  to  a  smooth  paste, 
previously  adding  a  small  quantity  of  salt.  Turn  this  into  small 
round  dumpings;  drop  them  into  boing  water  and  boil  from  12  to 
3-4  of  an  hour.  They  may  be  served  with  roast  or  bored  meat;  in 
the  latter  case  they  may  be  cooked  with  the  meat,  but  should  be 
dropped  into  the  water  when  it  is  quite  boiling.  Boil  from  1-2  to 
3-4  of  an  hour.  Sufficient  for  10  or  12  dumplings. 

GREEN  PEACH  OR  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. — The  paste  made  as  above. 
If  the  fruit  be  stewed,  take  a  spoon  or  your  hand  and  put  it  smooth- 
ly on  the  paste,  and  roll  it  up,  or  if  used  before  cooking,  Chop  them 
first  very  fine  and  put  the  particles  uniformly  on  the  paste  and  roll 
up  and  boil.  Any  kind  of  marmalade,  apple  butter,  preserves,  jel- 
lies, sweetmeats  or  dried  fruits  chipped  very  fine,  or  raisins  can  be 
used  in  the  same  manner  and  eaten  with  the  sauce  desired. 

PANCAKES. 

FRENCH  PANCAKES. — Put  in  a  basin  1-4  Ib.  sifted  flour,  i  egg,  1-4 
gill  of  milk  ;  stir  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  1-2  a  pint  of  milk,  i 
spoonful  fresh  butter,  melted,  and  x  small  pinch  of  salt ;  mix  well 


PANCAKES.  233 

and  if  lumpy  strain  through  the  pointed  strainer.  Put  a  small  piece 
of  butter  in  a  pancake  pan  ;  when  melted  pour  in  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  batter.  Spread  it  so  as  to  cover  the  pan  entirely  fry  till  color, 
ed  on  one  side,  then  toss  it  over  and  cook  the  other  side,  and  turn 
the  pancake  out  on  a  dich.  When  all  the  batter  is  used  in  this  way, 
sprinkle  the  pancakes  with  sugar  and  se'rve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  cut 
lemon.  Pancakes  should  be  eaten  as  soon  as  fried. 

COMMON  PANCAKES. — Take  4  spoonfuls  of  fine  flour,  4  eggs  well 
beaten  together,  then  add  i  cup  of  milk,  i  cup  of  butter,  then  beat 
again.  Fry  them  with  lard  or  dripping.  Sugar  and  lemon,  molasses 
or  sugar  and  vinegar  should  be  served  to  eat  with  them ;  or  when 
eggs  are  scarce,  make  the  batter  with  flour,  small  beer  and  ginger, 
or  clean  snow,  with  flour  and  a  very  little  milk  will  serve,  but  not  as 
well  as  eggs. 

CALIFONIA  PANCAKES. — Beat  10  eggs  with  a  little  of  the  best 
brandy,  and  i  pound  of  the  best  flour;  mix  12  ounces  of  butter 
melted  in  a  pint  of  cream  or  rich  new  sweet  milk,  a  little  salt  and 
nutmeg;  when  almost  cold  mix  all  together  with  3-4 cup  of  fine  su- 
gar and  fry  them  in  a  dry  pan  without  the  addition  of  fat.  Let  the 
pan  be  hot  when  you  begin  ;  when  you  begin  fry  them  only  on  one 
side;  as  you  lay  them  on  the  dish  strew  powdered  sugar  between 
each  pancake,  and  when  they  are  all  done  turn  them  upside  down 
in  another  dish,  that  the  brown  side  may  be  uppermost.  Sprinkle 
fine  sugar  over  that  and  garnish  with  cut  lemon. 

FIRST  RATE  CORN  BREAD. — Known  in  the  South  as  egg  bread. 
Pour  enough  boiling  water  on  a  quart  of  white  corn  meal  to  make 
an  ordinary  mush  ;  add  5  well  beaten  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  or  the  same  quantity  of  lard  and  butter  mixed  -  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  grits  or  small  hominy.  Stir  all 
together  until  it  is  perfectly  smooth,  and  it  must  be  about  as  stiff  as 
batter  ;  bake  it  slowly  in  shallow  tin  pans.  This  quantity  is  enough 
for  a  large  family. — Mrs.  James  D.  Thompson. 

To  MAKE  PANCAKES. — Eggs,  flour,  milk ;  to  every  egg  allow  i 
ounce  of  flour,  about  i-4th  pint  of  milk,  i  pinch  of  salt ;  be  certain 
that  theaeggs  are  fresh  ;  break  each  one  separately  in  a  cup,  whisk 
them  well,  put  them  into  a  basin  with  the  flour  and  the  salt  and  a 
few  drops  of  milk,  and  beat  the  whole  to  a  perfectly  smooth  batter ; 
then  add  by  degrees  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  The  proper  hin  of 
the  latter  ingredient  must  be  regulated  by  the  size  of  the  eggs, 
&c.,  &c.,  but  the  batter,  when  ready  for  frying,  should  be  of  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  cream.  Place  a  small  frying  pan  on  the  fire  to  get 
hot;  let  it  be  delicately  clean,  or  the  pancakes  will  stick,  and  when 
quite  hot  put  in  a  small  piece  of  butter,  allowing  1-2  ounce  to  each 
pancake.  When  it  is  melted  pour  in  the  butter,  about  1-2  teacupful 


234  PANCAKBS. 

batter  to  a  pan  5  inches  in  diameter,  and  fry  about  4  minutes,  or  un- 
til it  is  nearly  brown  on  one  side.  By  only  pouring  in  a  small  quan- 
tity of  batter,  and  so  making  the  pancake  thin,the  necessity  of  turning 
them  (an  operation  rather  difficult  to  some  skillful  cooks),  is  avoided. 
When  the  pancake  is  done,  sprinkle  over  it  some  pounded  sugar, 
roll  it  up  in  the  pan  and  take  it  oui  with  a  large  slice  and  place  it  on 
a  dish  before  the  fire.  Proceed  in  this  manner  until  sufficiently 
cooked  for  a  dish  ;  then  send  them  quickly  to  table,  and  continue  to 
send  in  a  further  quantity,  as  pancakes  are  never  good  unless  eaten 
almost  immediately  as  they  come  from  the  frying  pan.  The  batter 
may  be  flavored  with  a  little  grated  lemon  rind,  or  the  pancake  may 
have  preserves  rolled  in  them  instead  of  sugar.  Send  sifted  sugar 
and  a  cut  of  lemon  to  table  with  them.  To  make  pancakes  fry 
light,  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  should  be  beaten  separately 
arjd  the  whites  added  the  last  thing  to  the  batter  before  frying.  From 
3  to  5  minutes  for  a  pancake  that  does  not  require  turning ;  from  5 
to  8  minutes  for  a  thicker  one.  Allow  3  eggs  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients in  proportion  for  3  persons.  Seasonable  at  any  time,  but  es- 
pecially served  on  Shrove  Tuesday. 

PANCAKE  BATTER  may  be  made  in  the  same  way.  Eggs,  if  not 
well  beaten,  makes  the  batter  tough. 

PANCAKE  WITH  MARMALADE. — Put  4  ounces  of  sifted  flour  into  a 
basin  with  4  eggs;  mix  them  together  very  smoothly,  then  add  1-2 
cup  of  milk  or  cream  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  put  a  piece  of  but- 
ter in  your  pan  (it  requires  just  a  little);  when  quite  hot  put  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  mixture  and  let  it  spread  all  over  the  pan; 
place  it  upon  the  fire,  and  when  colored  upon  one  side  turn  it  over; 
then  turn  it  upon  your  cloth.  Proceed  thus  till  they  are  all  done, 
then  spread  apricot  or  other  marmalade  over  and  roll  them  up 
neatly;  lay  them  upon  a  baking  sheet;  sifted  sugar  over;  glaze  nicely 
with  a  salamander  and  serve  upon  a  napkin.  The  above  may  be 
served  with  sugar,  molasses,  syrup  or  honey  with  the  marmalade. 

RICE  PANCAKES. — To  a  half  a  pound  of  rice  put  nearly  2  cups  of 
cold  water  and  boil  to  a  jelly;  take  off  and  work  to  a  pulp  with  a 
wooden  spoon;  as  soon  as  cold  put  this  into  8  well  beaten  «ggs,  2 
cups  of  cream,  1-2  pound  of  melted  butter,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg; 
beat  it  till  of  a  smooth  batter,  adding  the  butter  last.  Fry  in  as  little 
sweet  lard  or  cotton  seed  oil  as  possible. 

RICE  PANCAKES. — Boil  1-2  pound  of  rice  to  a  jelly  with  a  little 
water,  and  when  cold  mix  with  it  a  pint  of  cream,  8  eggs,  a  small 
matter  of  salt  and  some  nutmeg.  Stir  in  1-2  pound  of  batter  just 
warmed  and  as  much  flour  as  will  thicken  the  batter.  Fry  them 
in  very  little  leaf  lard  or  drippings  or  cotton  seed  oil. 

CREAM  PANCAKES. — Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  1-2  pint  of 


MEAT   AND    SAVORY    PUDDINGS.  235 

cream,  1-2  cup  sugar,  some  cinnamon  beating,  mace  and  nutmeg; 
fry  them  as  quick  as  pQssible  and  grate  over  them  some  lump 
sugar. 

PANCAKES. — Beat  whites  of  4  eggs,  the  yolks  of  two,  flour,  salt 
into  a  smooth  batter;  then  beat  to  a  froth  8  or  10  eggs  with  3 
ounces  of  sugar;  fry  in  a  pan  on  the  top  of  the  stove  one  or  two 
minutes,  and  place  on  the  fried  pancake  and  serve  hot. 

JELLY  PANCAKES. — Make  a  batter  of  6  eggs  and  a  pint  of  flour ; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  smooth  bat- 
ter, beat  thoroughly  and  fry  with  sweet  lard;  when  one  is  done  and 
taken  up,  spread  on  a  plate;  on  this  spread  jelly  or  jam  thinly,  then 
roll  up  like  a  scroll;  place  on  a  napkin  on  a  hot  plate;  put  the  pan- 
cake on  when  you  have  enough  served. 

PINK  PANCAKES. — Boil,  till  tender,  a  large  blood  beet  root,  bruise 
it  in  a  marble  mortar,  put  to  it  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  2  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  3  of  cream,  1-2  grated  nutmeg,  sugar  to  taste,  a  glass  of 
brandy;  mix  well  together;  fry  them  carefully  in  a  frying  pan  slightly 
greased  with  a  tittle  sweet  lard.  Serve  them  up  with  a  garnish  of 
green  sweet  meats.  A  mite  of  cochineal  may  serve  for  coloring. 

MEAT  AND  SAVORY  PUDDINGS. 

LIVER  PUDDINGS. — Wash  and  thoroughly  clean  the  entrails;  boi! 
the  liver  till  it  will  grate  or  pound ;  take  an  equal  quantity  of  minced 
suet  and  liver,  chop  an  onion  or  two,  season  with  black  pepper,  salt 
and  a  little  thyme  rubbed  small ;  half-fill  the  entrails,  cut  them  into 
proper  lengths  and  fasten  the  ends.  Let  them  boil  a  little  and  prick 
them  to  keep  them  from  bursting,  When  done* lay  them  to  cool  ; 
broil  and  serve  them  at  table.  The  French  prepare  many  delicacies 
expensive,  and  different  puddings  in  skins,  but  with  more  trouble 
than  our  mode  of  making  them. 

MUTTON  PUDDING. — Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  small  onion  ; 
lay  one  layer  of  steaks  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish  and  pour  a  batter 
of  potatoes  boiled  and  pressed  through  a  colander  and  mixed  with 
milk  and  an  egg  over  them ;  then  put  in  the  rest  of  the  steaks  and 
batter  and  bake  them.  Batter,  with  flour  instead  of  potatoes,  eats  well, 
but  requires  more  eggs,  and  is  not  so  good. 

MUTTON  PUDDING,  No.  2. — Cut  slices  of  the  leg  of  mutton  that 
has  been  underdone  and  put  them  into  a  basin  lined  with  a  fine 
suet  crust ;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  finely-chopped  onion  or 
shalot. 

PORK  PUDDING. — The  cuttings  of  pork  which  are  spared  when 
the  pig  is  to  be  salted,  which  are  quite  lean,  are  best  for  a  pudding. 
Take  11-2  Ibs.  of  the  meat,  seasoned  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1-3 


236  MEAT  AJ&D    SAVORY   PUDDINGS. 

as  much  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  chopped  onion,  sage  and  ap- 
ple. Put  into  the  paste  with  1-2  a  pint  of  water.  Tie  up  and  boil 
i  1-2  or  2  hours. 

POTATO  PUDDING  WITH  MEAT. — Boil  the  potatoes  till  fit  to  mash  ; 
rub  through  a  colander  and  make  a  thick  batter  with  milk  and  2  eggs; 
lay  some  seasoned  steaks  in  a  dish,  then  some  batter,  and  over  the 
last  layer  put  the  remainder  of  the  batter.  Bake  a  fine  brown. 

MOTHER  EVE'S  PUDDING. — Grate  3-4  lb.  bread,  mix  it  with  the 
same  quantity  of  suet  chopped  fine,  the  same  of  apples  and  currants; 
mix  with  these  the  whole  of  4  eggs  and  the  rind  of  1-2  a  lemon 
(hopped  fine.  Put  it  into  a  shape ;  boil  3  hours  and  serve  with 
pudding  sauce — the  juice  of  1-2  a  lemon  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

CHEESE  PUDDING. — Mix  together  1-2  lb  grated  cheese,  4  eggs 
well-beaten,  and  1-2  pint  of  milk.  Mix  well  and  serve  with  a  little 
salt.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish,  putting  some  slices  of  toasted  bread 
at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  or  omit  them  as  you  may  fancy. 

HUNTER'S  PUDDING. — Mix  i  lb.  each  of  suet,  flour,  currants, 
raisins  stoned,  cut  up  the  rind  of  1-2  a  lemon  pared  as 
fine  as  possible ;  6  Jamaica  peppers  in  fine  powder,  4  eggs,  a  glass 
of  brandy,  a  little  salt,  and  as  little  milk  as  will  make  it  to  a  proper 
consistency  ;  boil  in  a  floured  cloth  or  lemon  mould  8  or  9  huurs. 
Serve  with  sweet  sauce.  Add  sometimes  a  spoonful  of  peach  brandy 
for  change  of  flavor.  This  pudding  will  keep,  after  it  is  boiled,  six 
months,  if  kept  tied  up  in  the  same  cloth  and  hung  up,  folded  in  a 
sheet  of  cap  paper  to  preserve  it  from  dust,  being  first  cold.  When 
to  be  used  it  must  be  boiled  a  full  hour. 

BLACK  PUDDING — Take  i  1-2  pints  of  pig's  blood;  add  to  it  1-2 
pint  of  boiled  cream,  i  lb.  of  the  inside  fat  of  the  pig,  cut  into  small 
slices ;  cut  3  onions  also  in  slices  and  fry  them  in  2  oz.  butter  till  of 
a  yellow  color ;  season  with  i  oz.  salt,  a  small  pinch  of  pepper,  a 
little  grated  nutmeg,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  1-2  a  bay  leaf,  chopped 
very  fine;  mix  all  well  together,  and  fill  the  skins,  previously  well- 
cleaned  and  washed,  with  this  mixture,  raking  care  not  to  have  the 
skins  so  full  not  to  allow  of  tying  them  with  a  string  into  5-inch 
lengths.  When  thus  tied  put  them  in  a  large  stew-pan  of  boiling 
water,  and  without  boiling  them,  let  them  remain  therein  till  firm  ; 
take  them  out  and  hang  them  to  cool.  When  wanted  they  should 
be  cut  into  lengths,  well  scored  with  a  knife  to  prevent  breaking,  and 
broiled  on  a  medium  fire  for  10  minutes,  turning  them  over  after 
5  minutes'  broiling,  then  serve  very  hot. 

FRENCH  BLACK  PUDDING. — Boil  12  onions  in.  broth  with  parsely, 
young  onions,  basil,  thyme,  sage  and  a  bay  leaf;  chop  them  very 
fine;  take  2  quarts  of  blood  that  has  been  properly  taken  from  the 
throat  of  the  hog  or  other  animal ;  put  in  a  little  vinegar  to  prevent 


MEAT   AND   SAVORY   PUDDINGS.  2^7 

it  from  curdling ;  cut  i  1-2  rounds  of  the  caul  in  slices  ;  put  it  into 
the  blood  with  2  quarts  of  cream,  hash  fine  herbs,  fine  pepper,  spices 
and  salt.  Mix  all  together;  take  the  chittlings  of  hogs  or  sheep, 
which  must  be  well  scraped  and  cleaned,  fill  them  with  a  filler,  but 
do  not  make  them  too  full,  otherwise  they  might  break ;  tie  them  in 
proper  lengths ;  put  them  into  a  pot  of  warm  warm  water,  and  do 
them  over  a  slow  fire  to  prevent  their  breaking  ;  turn  them  carefully 
with  a  skimmer ;  if  they  are  pricked  and  the  fat  comes  out  they  are 
sufficiently  done.  Take  them  up  on  a  cloth  and  let  them  cool. 
When  they  are  to  be  sent  to  the  table  slit  and  grill  them. 

WHITE  HOG'S  PUDDING. — Take  4  Ibs.  beef  suet  shreded  fine,  3  Ibs. 
of  grated  bread  and  2  Ibs.  of  currants  picked  and  washed,  i  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  finely  beaten  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon,  salt,  i  1-2 
Ibs.  sugar,  i  pint  of  wine,  i  quart  of  cream,  some  rosewater,  and  20 
well-beaten  eggs,  using  only  half  the  whites.  Mix  these  well  and  fill  up 
the  cleaned,  well-washed  and  soaked  entrails,  boil  them  a  little  and 
prick  them,  take  them  up  when  done  and  lay  them  away  or  hang 
them  up  to  dry. 

ClNDONILLES,    OR     CHITTLINGS,    A    LA  BECHAMILLE. — Put    a  bit  of 

butter  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  slice  of  ham,  3  large  shalots,  parsley, 
young  onions,  a  clove  of  garlics,  thyme,  basit  and  bay  ;  put  them 
upon  a  slow  fire;  let  them  sweat  1-4  of  an  hour;  moisten  with 
a  quart  of  milk;  let  them  boil  and  reduce  one-half;  pass  it  through 
a  search  ;  put  in  a  large  handful  of  the  crumbs  of  bread  and  make 
boil  until  the  crumbs  have  taken  up  all  the  milk ;  cut  fillets  of  fresh 
pork,  caul,  bits  of  lard,  and  veal  lights,  head  and  sweetbread ;  mix  all 
with  the  bread  and  6  eggs,  fine  spices  and  salt,  fill  the  puddings  or 
entrails  ;  tie  and  cook  them  in  1-2  milk  and  1-2  fat  broth,  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  bunch  of  parsely  and  young  onions.  Serve  as  directed  for 
pig's  chittlings. 

VEAL  CHnTLiNGS. — Take  a  veal's  fraise  or  pluck  (lights,  heart 
and  sweetbread),  blanch  or  parboil  them  15  or  20  minutes  and  cut 
them  up  in  small  pieces  and  add  i  Ib.  of  fat  cut  in  the  same  manner; 
mix  the  whole  with  salt,  fine  spices,  some  shalots,  4  spoonfuls  of  rich 
cream  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  ;  use  pig's  puddings  or  entrails  and  sim- 
mer them  in  rich  broth,  a  bottle  of  white  wine,  a  clove  of  garlic,  thyme, 
basil,  bay  and  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  young  onions ;  let  them  cool 
in  their  seasoning.  Nick  them  a  little  ;  grill  and  serve. 

FISH  PUDDING. — Pound  some  cold  fish  in  a  mortar  with  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  broth ;  add  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  some  crumbs 
of  bread ;  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  previously  well  beaten 
and  rub  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
also. 


238  MEAT  AND  FOWL  PUDDING. 


MEAT  AND  FOWL  PUDDING. 

HASHED  FOWL  PUDDING. — Boil  12  onions  and  make  a  very  dry 
panada  of  cream  ;  put  the  onions  with  it  into  a  mortar,  adding  sweet 
almonds  that  have  been  put  through  a  search  ;  mix  all  together  ; 
add  some  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  put,  cut  into  squares,  white  roasted 
fowls  hashed  very  fine;  pound  all  together  and  moisten  with  warm, 
rich  cream,  season  with  salt  and  fine  spices  ;  taste  if  it  is  good,  and 
fill  the  skins.  These  do  not  require  as  much  cooking  as  the  black 
pudding.  Instead  of  water  use  milk.  Let  them  cool  and  prick 
them  with  a  fork,  instead  of  cutting,  before  they  are  put  upon  the 
grill.  The  best  manner  of  doing  them  is  to  put  them  into  a  white  pa- 
per case  and  broil  them. 

BAKED  CHICKEN  PUDDING. — Cut  up  2  or  more  young  chickens  as 
for  frying.  Stew  them  till  half-done  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
then  take  the  chickens  up  to  cool,  and  the  liquor  also  ;  meanwhile 
get  ready  a  batter  of  6  or  7  eggs,  2  pints  of  milk,  i  Ib  of  flour  and 
some  salt.  Beat  thoroughly  till  smooth;  then  fill  up  a  baking-pan 
or  dish  with  a  layer  of  chicken  and  batter  alternately.  Let  the  top 
layer  be  of  batter.  Bake  till  done  of  a  light  brown  ;  then  pour  the 
chicken  gravy  into  a  sauce-pan,  on  the  stove,  stirring  into  it  an  egg 
as  it  boils. 
Serve  at  once  in  a  sauce-tureen.  With  the  pudding  it  is  excellent. 

LARK  AND  BEEFSTEAK  PUDDING. — Make  a  paste  with  3-4  of  a  Ib.  of 
dry  beef  suet  chopped  fine  and  i  Ib.  of  flour,  with  a  little  lard  or  butter, 
then  make  into  a  stiff  paste  with  cold  water  or  lukewarm  milk;  work 
it  well,  rolling  it  out  2  or  3  times  with  the  rollingpin,  or  omit  it,  as  it 
will  then"  be  lighter  for  pudding.  Then  take  6  or  8  larks  and  roast 
them;  take  off  the  flesh  and  pick  out  the  sinews,  break  the  bones 
and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  and  hash  them  with  the  livers  and  flesh 
and  nice  beefsteak,  with  a  little  suet,  if  approved,  an  onion  or  two ; 
then  put  a  layer  of  the  paste  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish  ;  then  put  in 
the  hash,  with  milk  and  butter,  a  little  black  pepper;  cover  the 
whole  basin  with  the  suet  paste  ;  pinch  the  edges  to  keep  the  gravy 
in,  and  let  it  bake  slowly  for  2  hours  or  more 

RABBIT  PUDDING. — Roast  a  young  rabbit  or  squirrel;  take  off  the 
flesh,  pick  out  the  sinews,  hash  it  with  the  liver  very  fine,  break  the 
bones  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  moisten  with  rich  panada  gravy 
seasoned  ;  let  it  boil  to  draw  the  flavor,  with  which  a  panada  is  to  be 
made ;  pound  the  meat  and  panada  together,  add  1-3  butter, 
that  is  to  say,  an  equal  part  of  the  three  ingredients,  and  fine  minced 
onions  that  have  been  stewed  in  gravy,  6  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  rich 
cold  cream,  as  much  as  necessary  to  make  the  whole  to  the  con- 


MEAT   AND   FOWL   PUDDING.  230 

sistency  of  pudding ;  add  fine  spices,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg ;  mix 
all  well  together,  and  fill  the  skins  and  tie  and  put  them  in  a  white 
paper  case  before  they  are  put  upon  the  grill. 

ENGLISH  BEEFSTEAK  PUDDING. — From  a  Temple  Bar  Cook. — 
(Olive  Logan.)  Make  a  crust  of  1-2  pound  suet  chopped  fine,  i  Ib. 
of  flour,  1-2  spoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
mixed  together  and  sufficient  cold  water  added  to  make  a  stiff  paste. 
2d,  cut  1-2  of  the  paste  for  the  cover  of  the  pudding  basin  in  which 
the  pudding  is  to  be  boiled;  roll  the  rest  of  the  paste  to  the  size 
required  to  line  the  pudding  basin;  grease  the  basin  with  butter  and 
lay  the  paste  in  neatly.  3d,  take  2  pounds  of  beef  cut  in  slices;  dip 
each  slice  in  flour  as  you  lay  it  in  the  basin,  along  with  2  kindings 
also  sliced;  a  little  chopped  parsley,  a  bit  of  good  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  a  few  drops  of  Worcester  sauce,  a  teacupful  of  water,  1-2 
spoonful  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  4lh,  Roll  out  the  paste 
cover  to  the  size  of  the  top  of  the  basin,  then  lay  the  cover  on  and 
press  the  edges  together;  dip  your  nice  clean  pudding  cloth  in  boil- 
ing water,  flour  it,  tie  it  over  the  top  of  the  basin.  5th,  place  the 
basin  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  keep  boiling  4  hours.  For 
serving  take  off  the  cloth,  turn  the  basin  over  a  nice  warm  plate  and 
remove  the  basin.  This  leaves  your  pudding  the  round  pudding 
shape  on  top,  though  the  bottom  is  flat.  When  you  stick  your  spoon 
in  the  gravy  it  will  run  out  luscious  and  healthy,  and  the  meat  within 
be  as  tender  as  a  young  chicken.  I  should  perhaps  mention  that  the 
pudding  basin  referred  to  is  a  bowl  of  crockery  holding  a  quart  with 
a  thick  rim  around  the  top,  which  makes  it  easy  to  tie  the  cloth  on 
with  a  string.  Enough  for  four  persons. 

BAKED  BEEFSTEAK  PUDDING. — Make  a  batter  of  milk,  2  eggs  and 
flour,  or  which  is  better,  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed  through  a  col- 
lender;  lay  a  little  batter  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  put  in  the 
steaks  prepared  as  above  and  very  well  seasoned;  pour  the  remainder 
of  the  batter  over  them  and  bake  it. 

BOILED  STEAK  OR  KIDNEY  PUDDING. — If  made  of  kidney  split  and 
soak  it  and  season  that  or  the  meat.  Make  a  paste  of  suet,  flour 
or  cotton  seed  oil  and  milk,  roll  it,  and  line  a  basin  with  some;  put 
the  kidneys  or  steaks  in,  cover  it  with  paste,  and  pinch  round  the 
edge.  Cover  with  a  cloth  and  boil  a  considerable  time.  It  should 
be  well  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt;  butter,  cream,  fillets  of  fat  pork 
or  bacon  or  sweet  lard. 

SUET  PUDDING  (English.) — Two  pounds  of  flour  or  bread  crumbs, 
i  pound  of  chopped  beef  suet,  i  or  2  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  i  gill  of 
milk  or  water,  and  i  cup  of  sugar  or  honey  if  wished.  This  prepar- 
ation of  ingredients  will  do  for  a  large  family,  and  can  be  propor- 
tioned to  suit  the  number  of  persons  to  be  served.  Stir  up  the  flour 


240  SWEET    PUDDINGS. 

and  minced  suet  together,  then  whisk  the  eggs  and  add  them  with  a 
little  salt  to  the  minced  suet  and  flour,  then  the  water  or  milk,  and 
make  a  paste  with  a  strong  wooden  spoon;  then  dust  your  pudding 
bag  or  cloth  with  flour;  lay  your  paste  into  it  and  sew  or  tie  the  cloth 
tight,  and  lay  it  into  boiling  water;  when  done,  after  boiling  11-4 
hour,  plunge  the  bag  into  cold  water  a  moment,  then  serve  very  hot 
by  turning  it  out  on  a  hot  dish.  If  desired,  eat  with  any  kind  of  sweet 
sauce. 

OAT  MEAL  AND  SUET  PUDDING. — Chop  fine  1-2  pound  of  suet,  add 
2  pounds  of  oat  meal,  an  onion  or  2  sliced,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  fill  the  skins  or  entrails  as  before.  The  oat  meal  should 
be  dried  well  before  using. 

FRUIT  AND  SUET  PUDDING. — Mince  an  equal  quantity  of  beef 
suet  and  apples,  grate  some  stale  bread,  pick  and  wash  some  dried 
currents,  i  pound  raw  sugar,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  and  grate  a  piece 
of  lemon  peel.  All  to  taste.  Mix  them  well  and  fill  the  entrails; 
boil  i-half  hour  and  take  them  out  to  drain  and  then  hang  them  up 
to  dry.  When  wanted  for  use,  put  them  first  into  boiling  water,  and 
then  on  a  gridiron. 

VE\L  SUET  PUDDING. — Cut  the  crumb  of  a  5  cent  loaf  into  slices; 
boil  and  sweeten  1-2  gallon  of  new  milk  and  pour  over  it.  When 
soaked  pour  out  a  little  of  the  milk  and  mix  with  6  eggs  well  beaten 
and  1-2  nutmeg.  Lay  the  slices  of  bread  into  a  dish,  with  layers  of 
currants  and  veal  suet  chopped  fine,  i  pound  each.  Batter  the  dish 
well  and  bake;  or  if  you  prefer  it,  you  may  boil  it  in  a  basin. 

SUET  PUDDING. — Chop  very  fine  i  pound  of  suet,  mix  with  1-4 
pound  of  flour,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  little  salt  and  as  little 
milk  as  will  make  it.  Boil  4  hours.  It  eats  well  next  day  cut  in 
slices  and  broiled  on  a  pan  or  broiler.  The  outward  fat  of  loins  or 
necks  of  mutton  finely  chopped,  makes  a  more  delicious  pudding 
than  the  suet. 

SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

AN  UNRIVALLED  PLUM  PUDDING. — One-half  pound  of  superior 
raisins,  1-4  pound  of  currants,  i  pound  of  Sultana  raisins,  2  pounds 
of  the  finest  moist  sugar,  2  pounds  of  bread  crumbs,  16  eggs,  two 
pounds  of  finely  chipped  suet,  6  ounces  of  mixed  candied  peel,  the' 
rind  of  two  lemons,  i  ounce  of  ground  nutmeg,  i  ounce  of  ground 
cinnamon,  1-2  oz.  of  pounded  bitter  almonds,  1-4  pint  of  brandy. 
Stone  and  cut  up  the  raisins,  but  do  not  chop  them;  wash,  pick  and 
-dry  the  currants,  and  cut  the  candied  peel  into  thin  slices  ;  mix  all 
the  dry  ingredients  well  together  and  moisten  wlith  the  eggs,  which 
should  be  well  beaten  and  strained  to  the  pudding;  stir  in  the  bran- 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  24! 

dy,  and  when  all  is  thoroughly  mixed,  well  butter  and  flour  a  stout 
new  pudding  cloth;  put  in  the  pudding  and  tie  it  very  tightly  and 
closely;  boil  from  six  to  8  hours,  and  serve  with  brandy  sauce,  a  few 
sweet  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  in  strips,  and  stick  on  the  pud- 
ding; ornament  it  prettily.  This  quantity  may  be  divided  and  boiled 
in  flattened  moulds.  For  small  families  this  is  the  most  desirable 
way.  as  the  above  will  be  found  to  make  a  pudding  of  rather  large 
dimensions.  Boil  from  6  to  8  hours;  seasonable  in  winter;  sufficient 
for  12  or  14  persons 

SNOW  BA.NK  SAUCE  FOR  PLAIN  PUDDING. — Put  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour  and  4  ounces  of  butter  into  a  clean  saucepan,  stir  them 
over  the  fire  till  the  butter  melts  and  thickens;  add  4  oz.  pounded 
white  sugar,  i  pint  of  good  white  wine  or  Madaira  and  stir  it  to  the 
yolks  of  8  eggs,  which  have  been  previously  well  whisked;  keep  con- 
stantly stirring  until  it  gets  quite  hot;  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will 
curdle.  When  sufficiently  cooked,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  pre- 
viously beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  thoroughly  stirred  into  the  mix- 
ture. Its  appearance  resembles  a  snow. 

PLUM  PUDDINGS. — Four  ounces  of  pounded  pudding  biscuits,  2 
spoonfuls  of  the  best  flour  or  good  common  biscuits,  1-2  pound  of 
good  California  raisins  stoned  and  cut  up;  1-2  Ib.  dried  currants 
picked  and  washed,  1-2  pound  suet  stripped  of  skins  and  threads  and 
chopped  fine,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  4  oz.  of  beaten 
sugar,  1-2  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  2  blades  of  mace  beaten 
fine,  3  ounces  each  of  candied  lemon,  orange  and  citron  sliced,  and  2 
oz.  of  blanched  almonds  roughly  chopped.  Beat  4  eggs  well  and  put 
them  to  a  little  milk  (sweet),  a  glass  of  wine  or  brandy,  and  then 
mix  in  the  flout  and  all  the  ingredients.  Tie  up  the  pudding  firm 
and  boil  it  for  4  hours,  keeping  up  the  boiling  by  adding  boiling 
water  and  turning  the  cloth  over.  Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. -Mrs.  M.Jeanson.  One-half  pound  each 
flour  and  bread  crumbs  mixed  lightly  together,  3-4  pound  beef  suet 
chopped  fine,  1-2  pound  each  of  raisins  and  currants  well  washed, 
picked  and  dried,  a  pinch  each  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  grated 
nutmeg,  mace  and  cloves,  2  ounces  citron  chopped  small,  i  Ib. 
brown  sugar,  10  whole  eggs  beaten  up;  put  the  whole  in  a  bowl,  and 
after  it  is  well  mixed  let  it  remain  all  night.  The  next  morning  stir  all 
up  again;  scald  a  cloth,  wring  it  out, then  dredge  it  well  with  sugar  or 
flour,  put  in  the  pudding,  roll  up  and  tie  tight,  put  into  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water,  to  which  a  handful  of  salt  has  been  added,  and  a  plate 
at  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  When  first  put  in  turn  the  pudding  occa- 
sionally until  it  is  wet,  to  prevent  the  raisins  from  settling  on  one 
side.  Boil  2  hours  quickly.  If  done  slowly  the  pudding  becomes 
heavy. 


SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

FINE  ENGLISH  BOILED  PLUM  PUDDING. — (Mrs.  Tod  Robinson.'} — 
One  half  pound  citron,  i  pound  each  of  currants,  brown  sugar, 
flour,  beef  suet  and  raisins;  8  eggs,  i  gill  each  of  wine  and  brandy, 
i  nutmeg,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  brown  sugar  to  the  yolks,  then 

1  pint   of  milk  and  flour  alternately   with  the  chopped  citron  and 
other  ingredients.     Boil  5  or  6  hours. 

PUDDING-ENGLISH  FLOUR.— (Mrs.  Mary  Jeanson.)  One  half  pound 
of  soda,  crackers  rolled  to  powder  under  a  rolling  pin,  1-2  Ib.  of  flour, 
1-2  Ib.  of  currants  well  washed  and  dried,  1-2  Ib.  of  Sultana  raisins 
or  common  raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  2  oz.  citron,  1-4  oz.  taken 
altogether  of  cloves,  mace  and  nutmeg,  1-2  Ib.  chopped  suet  (very 
fine),  10  eggs  well  beaten,  1-2  pint  brandy;  stir  all  well  together;  if 
desired,  a  smaller  quantity  of  the  ingredients  can  be  used.  Boil  full 

2  hours — scalded. 

NOTE — In  all  boiled  puddings  the  cloth  should  be  wet  in  boil- 
ing water  before  placing  the  pudding  in,  and  before  turning  it  out 
dip  in  cold  water.  This  process  will  prevent  it  from  sticking. 

SAUCE  FOR  MRS.  MARY  JEANSON'S  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING  OR  FOAM 
SAUCE. — One  half  Ib.  of  butter,  2  cups  white  sugar  powdered.  These 
should  be  beaten  together  to  a  cream;  1-2  teacup  each  warm  water 
and  brandy  to  flavor.  Stir  to  a  foam;  a  most  delicious  sauce. 

NOTE — To  make  hot  brandy  sauce,  the  whole  should  be  boiled  a 
little  and  the  brandy  added  while  hot. 

BOILED  PLUM  PUDDING. — Stone  and  cut,  but  do  not  chop,  i  1-2  Ibs. 
good  Muscatel  raisins,  and  cleanse  without  cutting  i  Ib.  Sultana  rais- 
ins ;  wash  and  dry  2  Ibs.  of  Zante  currants;  cut  into  small,  thin  slices 
1-2  Ib  mixed  candied  peel,  grate  the  rinds  of  2  lemons  and  i  oz.  nut- 
meg ;  add  i  oz.  ground  cinnamon,  1-2  oz.  pounded  bitter  almonds, 
2  Ibs.  of  finely  chopped  suet  and  2  Ibs  of  bread  crumbs  ;  mix  these 
ingredients  well  together,  dry.  Beat  the  yolks  of  16  eggs  and  2  Ibs. 
of  sugar  to  a  froth :  beat  separately  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  solid 
froth  ;  when  this  is  done,  stir  i  gill  of  brandy  into  the  dry  ingredients, 
add  quickly  the  beaten  yolks  and  whites,  a  little  at  a  time,  alternately; 
beat  the  whole  rapidly  together  till  well  mixed.  Butter  well  and  flour 
a  stout  new  pudding-cloth  or  a  pudding-mould ;  put  in  the  pudding, 
tie  down  very  tightly  and  closely.  Boil  8  hours.  Serve  with  brandy 
or  lemon  sauce.  This  pudding  is  enough  for  fourteen  persons. 

BAKED  PLUM  PUDDING. — Two  Ibs.  of  flour,  i  Ib.  of  currants,  i  Ib. 
of  raisins,  i  Ib.  of  suet,  2  eggs,  i  pint  of  milk,  a  few  slices  of  can- 
died peel.  Chop  the  suet  finely,  mix  it  with  the  flour,  currants, 
stoned  raisins  and  candied  peel ;  moisten  with  the  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  add  sufficient  milk,  to  make  the  pudding  of  the  consistency  of 
very  thick  batter.  Put  it  into  the  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  a  good 
oven  from  2  1-3  to  2  3-4  hours,  turn  it  out,  strew  sifted  sugar  over 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  243 

it  and  serve.  For  a  very  plain  pudding,  use  only  1-2  the  quantity  of 
fruit ;  omit  the  eggs  and  substitute  milk  or  water  for  them.  The 
above  ingredients  make  a  large  family  pudding  ;  for  a  small  one, 
one-half  the  quantity  will  be  found  ample  ;  but  it  must  be  baked 
quite  i  1-2  hours;  large  pudding,  bake  2  1-2  to  2  3-4  hours;  one- 
half  the  size,  i  1-2  hours.  Sufficient  for  9  to  10  persons.  Season- 
able in  winter. 

SIMPLE  SAUCE  FOR  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING — (Mrs.  Jeanson). — 
Equal  quantities  of  sugar  and  butter  beaten  to  a  foam  ;  mix  together 
a  cupful  of  hot  water  and  2  spoonfuls  of  brandy.  Put  the  sugar  and 
butter  mixed  in  a  bqat  or  bowl,  then  pour  into  it  the  brandy  and 
water  and  stir  it  vigorously  only  once.  It  foams  and  looks  like  snow. 
Pour  brandy  over  and  dredge  sugar  over  the  pudding  when  about  to 
serve  at  table  ;  then  set  it  on  fire  with  a  match.  It  is  perfectly  de- 
licious. It  is  what  it  ought  to  be,  a  snow  sauce. 

PLUM  PUDDING— (Mrs.  Cordova,  West  Indies). — Twelve  eggs 
well  beaten,  i  Ib.  white  sugar,  i  Ib.  flour,  i  Ib.  butter,  i  Ib.  raisins; 
the  sugar  and  butter  must  be  well  stirred  together,  and  after  the  eggs 
are  beaten,  then  put  them  in  and  stir  again,  using  some  flavoring  ; 
boil  or  bake.  Note. — Currants  may  be  used  in  the  same  way,  in- 
stead of  the  raisins  or  plums. 

PLUM  PUDDING— (Mrs.  E.  J.  Jackson,  Richmond,  Va.). — Take  i 
quart  of  leavened  dough  from  yeast  bread  in  the  morning.  Set  it 
aside  until  it  is  nearly  time  to  put  it  on  for  dinner,  then  add  a  large 
teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar,  i  Ib.  of  stoned  raisins  and  two  or  three 
handfuls  of  well-washed,  picked  and  dried  currants,  or  the  currants 
may  be  omitted.  Bake.  Dried  whortleberries  are  very  nice  to  add 
if  fancied. 

A  GRANGER'S  currant  or  dried  currant  pudding  can  be  made  in 
the  same  way  as  the  above.  When  done,  all  boiled  puddings  should 
be  dipped  into  cold  water  for  a  moment  and  allowed  to  stand  a  min- 
ute; take  up  and  turn  out  on  a  dish.  Eat  with  wine  or  brandy 
sauce. 

POUND  PLUM  PUDDING. — One  Ib.  suet,  i  of  currants,  i  of  stoned 
raisins,  8  eggs,  1-2  grated  nutmeg,  2  oz.  sliced  lemon  peel,  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  ginger,  1-2  Ib.  of  bread  crumbs  to  1-2  Ib.  of  flour, 
1-2  pint  milk.  Chop  the  suet  finely;  mix  it  with  the  dry  ingredi- 
ents ;  stir  these  well  together  and  add  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  milk 
to  moisten  with ;  beat  up  the  mixture  well,  and  should  the  above 
proportion  of  milk  not  be  found  sufficient  to  make  it  of  the  proper 
consistency,  a  little  more  should  be  added.  Press  the  pudding  into 
a  mould,  tie  it  in  a  flannel  cloth  and  boil  for  5  hours,  or  rather  longer, 
and  serve  with  brandy  sauce.  Sufficient  for  7  or  8  persons.  Seas- 
ooable  in  winter.  It  may  be  baked  for  2  hours  intead  of  boiled. 


244  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

PLUM  PUDDING  WITH  RUM. — Take  2  peeled,  large,  ripe  and  plump 
apples,  cut  in  small* squares ;  3-4  Ib.  bread  crumbs,  3-4  Ib.  of  picked 
and  finely-chopped  suet,  3-4  Ib.  each  of  powdered  sugar,  3-4  Ib.  of 
well-washed  and  picked  currants,  1-4  Ib.  of  candied  orange  peel  and 
citron  cut  in  small  slices,  3-4  Ib  of  seeded  raisins  and  the  grated  peel 
of  a  lemon.  Mix  the  whole  thoroughly  in  a  basin  with  three 
pounded  cloves,  a  pinch  of  salt,  6  eggs,  i  at  a  time,  and  2  spoonfuls 
of  rum.  Butter  a  pudding  mould  ;  fill  it  with  the  mixture  and  tie  a 
cloth  tightly  over  it.  Fill  a  boiling  pot  3-4  full  of  boiling  water;  put 
the  pudding  in  it  and  boil  for  3  or  4  hours,  keeping  the  pot  replen- 
ished with  boiling  water.  Turn  the  pudding  out  of  the  mould  on 
a  hot  dish ;  sprinkle  the  dish  with  powdered  sugar,  pour  in  i  glassful 
of  warm  rum  and  light  it  after  putting  the  pudding  on  the  table. 

PLUM  PUDDING  WITH  WINE  SAUCE. — Prepare  the  pudding  as  be- 
fore. For  the  sauce,  put  8  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  stew-pan,  with  i  cup 
of  finely-pounded  sugar,  i  1-2  cups  of  superior  California  wine  and 
1-3  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon;  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sauce 
coats  the  spoon,  strain  through  a  fine  cloth  or  hair  sieve,  and 
serve  the  sauce  in  a  boat  with  the  pudding. 

RICH  PLUM  PUDDING. — One  Ib.  of  flour,  dried,  i  Ib.  of  currants 
very  carefully  picked,  washed  and  dried  before  the  fire ;  i  Ib.  of 
stoned  and  chopped  raisins,  i  Ib.  of  beef  suet  or  marrow  picked  very 
fine,  8  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  thoroughly  and 
well-mixed  with  the  flour  before  any  other  ingredients  are  added  ;  i 
oz.  of  candied  citron  chopped  very  fine,  2  oz.  blanched  almonds  cut 
in  pieces,  a  nutmeg  and  a  little  new  milk  or  water — the  less  the  bet- 
ter of  either ;  the  milk  will  make  it  cut  more  solid  ;  but  the  water 
will  make  it  more  light  and  hollow.  Let  it  boil  4  hours  and  serve 
with  sugar  sifted  over,  and  wine  sauce. 

CHRISTMAS  PLUM  PUDDING. — One-half  Ib.  raisins,  1-2  Ib.  currants, 
1-2  Ib.  mixed  peel,  3-4  Ib.  bread  crumbs,  3-4  Ib.  suet,  8  eggs,  i  wine- 
glass of  brandy ;  stone  and  cut  the  raisins  in  halves,  but  do  not  chop 
them  ;  wash,  pick  and  dry  the  currants,  and  mince  the  suet  finely  ; 
cut  the  candied  peel  into  thin  slices  and  grate  down  the  bread  into 
fine  crumbs ;  when  all  these  dry  ingredients  are  prepared,  mix  them 
well  together ;  then  moisten  the  mixture  with  the  eggs,  which  .should 
be  well  beaten,  and  the  brandy  ;  stir  well,  that  everything  may  be 
thoroughly  blended,  and  press  the  pudding  into  a  buttered  mould, 
tie  it  up  tightly  with  a  floured  cloth  and  boil  for  5  or  6  hours.  It 
may  be  boiled  in  a  cloth  without  a  mould,  and  will  require  the  same 
time  for  cooking.  As  Christmas  puddings  are  usually  made  a  few 
days  before  they  are  required  for  the  table,  when  the  pudding  is 
taken  out  of  the  pot,  hang  it  up  immediately,  and  put  a  plate  or 
saucer  underneath  to  catch  the  water  that  may  drain  from  it.  The 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  245 

day  to  he  eaten,  plunge  it  into  boiling  water  and  keep  it  boiling  for 
two  hours  ;  then  turn  it  out  into  a  mould  and  serve  with  brandy 
sauce.  On  Christmas  day  a  sprig  of  holly  or  some  evergreen  is  us- 
ually placed  in  the  middle  of  the  pudding  and  about  a  wineglass  of 
brandy  poured  around  it,  which,  at  the  moment  of  serving,  is  lighted, 
and  the  pudding  thus  brought  to  table  encircled  in  flame.  Boil  5  or 
6  hours  ;  2  hours  the  day  it  is  to  be  served.  Sufficient  for  a  quart 
mould  for  7  or  8  persons.  Seasonable  on  various  festive  occasions, 
particularly  on  the  25th  of  December.  N.  B.  Five  or  six  of  these 
puddings  should  be  made  at  one  time,  as  they  will  keep  many  weeks, 
in  cases  where  unexpected  guests  arrive,  they  will  be  found  accepta- 
ble, and  it  requires  only  warming  through,  a  quickly  prepared  dish. 
Moulds  of  every  shape  and  size  are  manufactured  for  these  pud- 
dings. 

A  PLAIN  CHRISTMAS  PUDDING  FOR  CHILDREN. — One  Ib.  of  flour 
or  bread  crumbs,  3-4  Ib.  of  stoned  raisins,  3-4  Ib  of  currants,  1-4  Ib. 
of  suet,  3  or  4  eggs,  milk,  2  oz.  of  candied  peel,  i  teaspoonful  of 
alspice,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Let  the  suet  be  finely  chopped,  the  raisins 
stoned  and  the  currants  picked  well,  washed  and  dried  ;  mix  them  with 
the  other  dry  ingredients,  and  stir  all  well  together ;  beat  and  strain 
the  eggs  to  the  pudding,  stir  these  in  and  add  just  sufficient  milk  to 
make  it  mix  properly.  Tie  it  up  in  a  well-floured  cloth,  put  it  into 
boiling  water  and  boil  for  at  least  5  hours.  Serve  with  a  sprig  of 
evergreen  placed  in  the  middle  of  the  pudding  and  a  little  pounded 
sugar  sprinkled  over  it.  Sufficient  for  9  or  10  children.  Seasonable 
at  Christmas.  Bake  5  hours. 

RUM  PUDDING — (German). — Take  8  eggs,  divide  the  yolks  from 
the  whites,  beat  the  yolks  and  mix  with  sugar,  sweet,  rich  cream  and 
a  little  flour  or  corn  starch,  or  rice  flour,  very  little  ;  put  on  the  fire 
and,  stir  till  thick  ;  then  take  half  a  small  box  of  gelatine,  say  2$c 
box,  and  put  it  in  a  very  small  pan  with  a  small  portion  of  water ; 
put  on  the  fire,  but  not  to  boil ;  then  add  it  slowly,  with  the  rum,  to 
the  above  mixture  last ;  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  solid  froth, 
and  put  that  on  top  and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown.  To  be  eaten 
cold  with  red  wine  or  jelly  sauce.  The  wine  and  sugar  to  taste. 
The  above  proportion  can  be  divided  and  make  two  puddings,  and 
season  one  with  rum,  brandy  or  wine,  and  the  other  leaving  out  the 
spirits,  can  be  flavored  with  essence  of  lemon  or  extract  of  vanilla 
to  taste. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. — Take  i  Ib.  of  butter,  i  Ib.  of  sugar,  10  eggs, 
the  juice  of  2  oranges,  boil  the  peel,  then  pound  it  fine  and  mix  it 
with  the  juice;  add  the  juice  of  i  lemon  ,  a  wineglass  of  brandy, 
the  same  of  wine  and  rose  water.  If  you  do  not  have  the  fruits,  add 
the  extracts. 


246  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

GRANGER  ORANGE  PUDDING. — After  peeling  and  seeding  4  good- 
sized  oranges,  cut  them  up.  Add  i  1-2  cups  of  sugar;  let  them  re- 
main ;  stir  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  into  i  cup  of  nearly  boil- 
ing milk  or  cream  ;  mix  with  a  little  water  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs. 
When  done,  let  it  cool  and  mix  with  the  orange.  Then,  with  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  4  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar, 
make  a  frosting.  Spread  over  the  top  of  the  pudding.  Place  in 
the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

BAKED  LEMON  PuoorNG. — Ten  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  2  pints 
of  milk,  2  ounces  of  butter,  i  lemon,  1-4  pound  of  powdered  su- 
gar, 4  eggs,  i  tablespoonful  of  brandy;  bring  the  milk  to  the  boil- 
ing point,  stir  in  the  butter  and  pour  these  hot  over  the  bread 
crumbs;  add  the  sugar  and  and  very  finely  minced  lemon  peel  ; 
beat  the  eggs  and  stir  these  in  with  the  brandy  to  the  other  in- 
gredients and  bake  for  half  an  hour;  sufficient  for  6  or  7  persons; 
seasonable  at  any  time. 

LEMON  PUDDING. — (Jennie  Breek).  5  eggs,  1-2  pound  butter,  i 
pound  of  white  sugar,  juice  of  3  lemons,  i  pint  of  cream  or  new 
milk,  cream  the  butter  by  beating  it  and  stir  the  sugar  in  it;  beat 
the  yolks  of  eggs  smooth,  then  add  the  yolks  to  butter  and  su- 
gar; stir  it  well,  then  add  and  beat  in  the  cream,  and  last  stir 
in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  snow,  and  the  grated  rind  of  i 
common  lemon.  This  is  enough  for  3  puddings. 

LEMON  PUDDING. — One  half  pound  of  apples  minced  very  fine, 
1-2  pound  pulverized  white  sugar,  6  ounces  butter,  the  yolks  of  eight 
eggs  and  the  whites  of  4,  beaten  separately,  3  lemons  cut  in  very 
thin  slices  (rind  and  juice  and  pulp);  beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a 
cream,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  whites 
of  four  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  mix  well,  and  finally  the  third  lemon; 
stir  the  mixture  well  together,  have  ready  a  deep  earthen  baking  dish 
lined  with  puff  paste,  pour  in  the  mixture;  bake  3-4  of  an  hour. 
Serve  cold. 

VERY  RICH  LEMON  PUDDING. — The  rind  and  juice  of  two  large 
lemons,  1-2  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  1-4  pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  8 
eggs,  2  ounces  almonds,  1-2  pound  of  butter  melted,  mix  the  pound- 
ed sugar  with  the  cream  and  add  the  yolks  of  eggs  to  the  but- 
ter, which  should  be  previously  warmed.  Blanch  and  pound  the 
almonds  and  put  these  with  the  grated  rind  and  strained  juireof  the 
lemon  to  the  other  ingredients.  Stir  all  well  together.  Line  a  dish 
with  puff  paste,  put  in  the  mixture  and  bake  for  i  hour.  Sufficient 
for  6  or  7  persons;  always  a  seasonable  dish 

LEMON  PUDDING. — Grate  yellow  part  of  the  rind  (being  dried  on 
the  stove  or  sun)  and  juice  of  3  lemons;  stir  to  a  cream  1-2  pound 
of  butter,  3-4  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar;  beat  very  light  six 
eggs  and  stir  gradually  into  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish. 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  247 

AN  EXCELLENT  LEMON  PUDDING. — Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  one 
cup  of  white  sugar,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  being  rubbed  with  some 
lumps  of  it  to  the  essence;  then  put  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  the 
juice  of  a  large  lemon,  and  mix  all  with  4  or  5  oz.  of  butter  warmed. 
Put  a  crust  into  a  shallow  dish,  nick  the  edges,  pour  the  above  mix- 
ture into  it;  when  served  turn  the  pudding  out  of  the  dish. 

LEMONADE  PUDDING. — (For  Summer.) — Make  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  lemonade  in  the  usual  way,  adding  the  juice  of  a  large  Cali- 
fornia orange  to  every  pint;  when  cold  soak  in  it  thoroughly  a  French 
roll  or  rolls,  but  don't  break  them;  then  stick  in  their  quarters  blanch- 
ed pieces  of  sweet  almonds. 

LEMON  AND  CREAM  PUDDING. — Beat  up  4  eggs,  strain  them,  add 
a  teacupful  of  fine  white  sugar,  1-2  rind  of  lemon,  i  pint  of  new 
cream.  Line  a  pudding  dish  with  puff  paste,  put  in  the  above  and 
bake  1-2  hour. 

CALIFORNIA  APPLE  PUDDING. — Pare  and  grate  3-4  pounds  of  juicy 
apples,  put  to  them  6  ounces  of  butter,  beat  to  a  cream;  4  eggs 
beat,  2  soft  biscuits  pounded,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  grated,  sugar  to 
taste,  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  another  of  orange  flower  water;  bake  in 
a  puff  paste  marked  on  the  border,  and  when  done  strew  candied 
lemon  or  orange  peel  sliced  over  the  top;  a  little  lemon  juice  or  ci- 
der may  be  added  if  the  apples  are  too  mellow. 

AN  EXCELLENT  APPLE  PUDDING. — Pare  and  core  and  stew  the 
apples  in  a  stew  pan  with  cinnamon,  2  or  3  cloves  and  the  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon.  When  soft  sweeten  them  to  taste.  Pulp  them 
through  a  seive,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  i  cup  of  butter,  the 
grated  peel  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  mix  the  ingredients  well  and 
bake  for  an  hour  in  a  dish  lined  with  good  puff  paste. 

PIPPIN  PUDDING. — Boil  8  apples  well,  take  out  the  cores,  put  in 
3-4  pint  of  milk,  thicken  with  4  eggs,  a  little  lemon  peel  and  sugar 
to  taste;  put  pie  paste  around  the  dish;  bake  in  a  slow  oven,  grate 
suo^ar  over  it  and  serve  hot. 

BAKED  APPLE  PUDDING. — Take  12  large  apples,  wash  them  and 
boil  as  for  sauce;  grate  in  4  sweet  biscuits  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
squeeze  in  the  juice  and  add  4  whole  eggs,  2  spoonfuls  batter, 
sweeten  to  taste  and  bake  it  with  a  thin  puff  paste  at  the  bottom  of 
the  dish. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS  OR  PUDDING  BOILED  OR  BAKED. — Peel,  cut 
and  core  the  desired  quantity  of  apples,  cover  with  the  fruit  for 
boiled  pudding,  tie  up  in  a  cloth  and  boil  till  done  or  baked;  better 
boiled  and  kept  in  the  cloth  hung  up  for  4  or  6  weeks.  They  may 
be  rewarmed  by  simply  putting  the  cloth  containing  the  pudding  in 
boiling  water  for  10  or  15  minutes,  when  serve  with  butter  and  brown 
sugar. 


248 


SWEET  PUDDINGS. 


NOTE — The  crust  should  be  rolled  out  thin,  the  apples  cut  up 
rather  small  and  set  thickly  over  the  paste,  then  rolled  up  and  put 
in  a  cloth  and  sewed. 

BOILED  APPLE  PUDDING. — Apples,  butter  crust,  sugar  to  taste,  i 
small  teaspoonful  of  finely  minced  lemon  peel,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
lemon  juice;  make  a  butter  crust  or  a  suet  one,  using  for  a  moder- 
ate sized  pudding  from  3-4  to  I  pound  of  flour  with  other  ingredi- 
ents in  proportion.  Butter  a  basin,  line  it  with  some  of  the  paste, 
pare,  core  and  cut  the  apples  into  sh'ces  and  fill  the  basin  with  these; 
add  the  sugar,  the  lemon  peel  and  juice  and  cover  with  crust;  pinch 
the  edges  together,  flour  the  cloth,  place  it  over  the  pudding,  tie  it 
securely  and  put  it  into  plenty  of  fast  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil 
from  i  1-2  to  2  1-2  hours,  according  to  size;  then  turn  it  out  of  the 
basin  and  send  it  to  the  table  quickly.  Apple  puddings  may  also 
be  boiled  in  a  cloth  without  a  basin,  but  when  made  in  this  way 
must  be  served  without  the  least  delay,  as  the  crust  so  soon  becomes 
heavy.  Apple  pudding  is  a  very  convenient  dish  to  have  when  the 
dinner  hour  is  rather  uncertain,  as  it  does  not  spoil  by  being  boiled 
an  extra  hour.  Care,  however,  must  be  taken  to  keep  it  well  cov- 
ered with  water  all  the  time  and  not  allow  it  to  stop  boiling.  Boil 
from  i  1-2  to  2  1-2  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  pudding  and 
quality  of  the  apples.  Sufficient  with  i  pound  of  flour  for  7  or  8 
persons. 

ICED  APPLE  PUDDINGS. — (French  Recipe  after  Careme.) — -Two 
dozen  apples,  a  small  pot  of  spiced  jam  and  1-2  pound  of  sugar,  i 
large  juicy  orange  or  2  small  ones;  1-4  pound  preserved  cherries, 
1-4  pound  of  raisins,  i  ounce  of  citron,  2  ounces  of  almonds,  i  gill 
of  curacoa,  i  gill  of  marasquino,  i  pint  of  cream.  Peel,  core 
and  cut  the  apples  into  quarters  and  simmer  them  over  the  fire  till 
soft,  then  mix  with  them  the  apricot  jam  and  the  sugar,  on  which 
the  rind  of  the  orange  should  be  previously  rubbed;  work  all  these 
ingredients  through  a  sieve  and  put  them  into  a  freezing  pot. 
Stone  the  raisins  and  simmer  them  in  a  little  syrup  for  a  few  min- 
utes; add  these  with  the  sliced  citron,  the  almonds  cut  in  slices  and 
the  cherries  drained  from  their  syrup  to  the  ingredients  in  the  freez- 
ing pot;  put  in  the  curacoa  and  marasquino  and  freeze  again;  add 
as  much  whipped  cream  as  will  be  required;  freeze  again  and  fill 
the  mould;  put  the  lid  on  and  plunge  the  mould  into  the  ice  pot 
containing  pounded  ice  and  saltpetre,  cover  it  with  a  wet  cloth, 
where  it  should  remain  until  wanted  for  the  table.  Turn  the  pud- 
ding out  of  the  mould  on  a  clean  and  neatly  folded  napkin,  and  serve 
as  sauce  a  little  iced  whipped  cream  in  a  sauce  tureen  or  glass  dish; 
1-2  hour  to  freeze  the  mixture. 

APPLE  SOUFFLE  OR  STEAMED  PUDDING. — Seven  or  8  rich, juicy  ap- 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  249 

pies,  i  1-4  cup  of  bread  crumbs  (fine  and  stale),  5  eggs,  i  1-2  cup 
of  sugar,  2  heaped  teaspoonfuls  butter,  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  and  a 
pinch  of  grated  lemon  peel.  Pare,  core  and  slice  the  apples,  and 
stew  in  an  enameled  kettle,  with  a  very  little  water,  until  they  are  ten- 
der. Take  up  and  mash  the  pulp,  then  stir  in  sugar  and  butter  while 
hot.  When  cold  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and 
then  the  whites  beaten  to  a  solid  froth,  then  the  stale  bread 
crumbs  ;  then  the  flavoring,  and  beat  vigorously  for  4  or  5  min- 
utes, until  the  mixture  is  reduced  to  a  custard ;  put  in  a  buttered 
dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  i  hour.  Ten  minutes  before 
you  take  it  out  remove  the  cover.  This  will  prevent  the  forma- 
tion of  a  crust  on  top,  and  the  pudding  will  be  more  succulent. 
Eat  while  hot  with  honey  and  butter. 

A  GRANGER'S  NICE  BAITER  PUDDING. — Five  cups  of  milk,  5 
cups  of  flour,  5  eggs,  beaten  smoothly;  salt  to  taste.  Stir  and 
beat  till  free  from  lumps.  Bake  in  buttered  shallow  pudding 
dishes.  Eat  with  cream,  sugar  and  grated  lemon  peel. 

APPLE  AND  RICE  PUDDING  FOR  INVALIDS. — Boil  1-2  ounce  of 
good,  sound  rice  in  a  gill  of  milk  till  very  soft,  then  add  a  little 
sugar,  a  little  cinnamon,  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Then  pare,  core  and  slice  a  medium-sized,  good  apple  and 
put  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  butter,  a  little  sugar  and  a  drop 
of  water;  simmer  till  tender,  then  put  the  apple  into  a  deep  dish. 
Mix  an  egg  with  the  rice  and  pour  it  over  the  apple  and  bake 
for  10  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  If  preferred,  the  pudding  can  be 
made  plain. 

RICH  SWEET  APPLE  PUDDING — Half  Ib.  each  of  sugar,  suet, 
currants,  i  spoonful  butter,  i  teaspoonful  salt,  i  tea  spoonful  grated 
nutmeg,  i  wineglass  of  brandy;  the  suet  chopped  fine,  i  cup  of  sweet 
milk;  all  well  mixed,  into  which  stir  8  or  10  sound  mellow  apples 
chopped  fine.  Bake  in  a  large  pan  or  pudding  dish;  mix  thoroughly 
the  ingredients. 

RUSK.  PUDDING. — According  to  the  size  of  the  dish  you  wish  to 
fill,  take  as  many  rusks  as  will  barely  fill  it,  butter  the  dish,  spread  the 
rusks  pretty  thickly  with  butter  or  beefs  marrow,  and  lay  them  in  a  dish; 
strew  over  each  layer  fine  loaf  sugar  sifted,  currants,  citron,  orange 
and  lemon  peel,  shred  fine,  a  few  California  sweet  almonds,  blanched, 
nutmeg  and  pounded  cinnamon.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  rich,  un- 
boiled custard,  in  the  proportion  of  i  pint  of  milk,  fresh  and  sweet ; 
1-2  cupful  of  cream,  3  whole  eggs  and  3  yolks,  and  a  spoonful  of 
ratafia.  Steep  at  least  2  hours,  and  as  much  longer  as  the  weather 
will  admit,  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  it  has  assumed  a  fine 
brown  color,  which  will  be  in  3-4  of  an  hour. 

A  SUPERB  PUDDING.T— Ten  ounces  bread  crumbs,  8  ounces  chop- 


2S°  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

ped  suet  2  ounces  pounded  sugar,  the  grated  peel  and  juice  of  lem- 
ons, 3  eggs  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  all  well  together,  put  it  into  a 
mould  that  will  just  hold  it  and  boil  for  3  hours.  Serve  with  clear 
wine  sauce. 

YANKEE  PUDDING — (Ella  Drummond). — Four  eggs,  3  coffee  cups 
of  flour,  2  of  sugar,  i  oz.  butter,  i  cup  sour  milk,  i  teaspoonful  sal- 
eratus  (it  is  an  improvement  to  dissolve  this  in  vinegar).  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  bake  as  you  would  cake.  To  be  eaten  with  sauce. 

PUDDING  A  LA  RF.INE. — Butter  and  paper  the  moulds,  fill  up  with 
cake  or  bread  crumbs  ;  when  full  pour  some  custard  in  until  it  will 
hold  no  more.  This  may  be  flavored  with  any  white  liquor  or  any  es- 
sence you  please,  for  instance,  citron  (then  it  is  called  pudding  a  la 
Reine  au  citron),  or  orange.  Use  peel  thickly  sliced,  and  so  on  or 
any  flavor  you  may  give  it. 

FIG  PUDDING  No.  i. — Chop  fine  i  Ib.  of  very  good  white  figs,  with 
4  oz.  suet  chopped  as  fine  as  possible ;  dust  them  with  a  little  flour 
as  you  proceed  to  bind  them  together ;  then  take  i  Ib.  of  fine  bread 
crumbs  and  3  oz.  of  sugar.  Beat  2  eggs  in  a  teacupful  of  milk  and 
mix  all  well  together.  Boil  for  4  hours.  If  you  choose,  serve  it  with 
brandy  sauce. 

FIG  PUDDING  No.  2 — Half  Ib.  chopped  figs,  1-2  pint  of  milk,  2  oz. 
mutton  suet  chopped  fine,  5  eggs,  i  teaspoonful  soda,  i  cup  sugar,  1-2 
pint  Jamaica  rum,  2  cups  bread  crumbs.  Mix  thoroughly,  place  in  a 
mould  and  boil  5  or  6  hours. 

QUINCE  PUDDING. — Parboil  the  quinces  till  tender,  pare  them 
thin  scrape  off  the  pulp,  mix  it  with  plenty  of  sugar  and  add  a  little 
ginger  and  cinnamon.  To  i  pint  of  new,  rich  cream  put  the  yolks 
of  3  or  4  eggs  and  stir  therein  quinces  till  they  are  sufficiently  thick  ; 
butter  your  dish,  pour  in  the  pudding  and  bake  it. 

PEACH  PUDDING. — Pour  a  pint  of  hot  cream  over  what  would  fill 
a  cup,  of  bread  crumbs,  and  cover  the  basin.  When  cold,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  i  glass  of  white  wine  or  sweet  cider,  and 
best  sugar  to  paste.  Scald  a  dozen  of  fully  ripe  peaches,  cut  them, 
take  out  the  kernels  and  pound  the  whole  in  a  mortar.  Mix  them 
with  the  ingredients  and  the  beaten  whites  of  the  2  eggs,  and  bake 
in  a  dish  with  a  paste  border. 

PEAR  PUDDING. — Coddle  6  large  pears  in  vine  leaves  covered  with 
water,  so  gently  that  they  may  be  rendered  soft  in  the  inside  without 
breaking  the  skins,  then  peel  them  and  take  the  pulp  from  the  core 
with  a  teaspoon.  Press  it  through  a  colander,  add  thereto  2  spoon- 
fuls of  orange  flower  water,  3  eggs,  beaten ;  a  glass  of  sweet  wine, 
i  pint  of  scalded  cream,  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Add  some  lemon  and 
orange  peel  chopped  fine  and  citron  in  slices.  Lay  a  thin  paste  at 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  and  around  its  sides;  pour  in  the  pudding. 
Bake  it  nicely. 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  251 

RHUBARB  PUDDING.—  Wash  and  peel  the  desired  quantity  of  the 
sticks  of  green  rhubarb,  put  them  into  a  stew  pan  with  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  a  little  cinnamon  and  as  much  sugar  as  will  sweeten  it. 
Set  it  over  a  fire  and  reduce  it  to  marmalade;  press  through  a  hair 
sieve,  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  i  white,  i  cup  of  butter,  1-2 
nutmeg  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon  grated.  Beat  all  well  together,  line 
the  inside  of  a  dish  with  good  paste,  put  in  the  pudding  and  bake 
it  1-2  hour. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING. — One  pint  milk,  2  eggs,  i  quart  flour, 
or  enough  for  a  thick  batter;  i  gill  baker's  yeast,  i  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  i  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  nearly  a  quart 
of  berries  well  dredged  with  flour.  Make  a  batter  of  the  eggs,  milk, 
flour,  yeast,  salt,  soda,  and  set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  4  hours. 
When  you  are  ready  to  boil  it,  stir  in  the  dredged  fruit  quickly  and 
lightly.  Boil  in  a  buttered  mould  or  floured  cloth  for  2  hours.  This 
will  be  found  lighter  and  more  wholesome  than  boiled  pastry.  Eat 
hot  with  sweet  sauce. 

RASPBERRY  PUDDING. — Put  a  quart  of  ripe  raspberries  with  a  cof- 
fee cupful  of  sugar  in  a  deep  dish;  as  you  put  in  the  raspberries 
break  them  slightly  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon.  Whip  six 
eggs  very  light  and  mix  them  with  a  pint  of  new  cream  or  rich  un-' 
skimmed  milk;  add  3-4  cup  of  sugar  and  some  nutmeg  grated. 
Then  pour  this  over  the  berries.  Put  the  dish  immediately  into  a 
moderate  oven  and  bake  1-2  hour.  Similar  puddings  may  be  made 
in  the  same  way  with  currants,  cherries,  &c.  When  baked  the  dish 
should  be  set  on  ice,  or  where  it  will  become  cold  before  eating  it. 

BAKED  GOOSEBERRY  PUDDING. — Gooseberries,  3  eggs,  i  1-2  oz. 
butter,  1-2  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  sugar  to  taste.  Put  the  gooseber- 
into  a  jar,  previously  cutting  off  the  tops  and  tails;  place  this  jar  in 
boiling  water  and  let  it  boil  until  the  gooseberries  are  soft  to  a  pulp, 
then  beat  them  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  to  every  pint  of  pulp  add 

3  well  whisked  eggs;  1-2  ounce  of  butter,  1-3  pint  of  bread  crumbs 
and  sugar  to  taste;  beat  the  mixture  well,  put  a  border  of  puff  paste 
round  the  edge  of  a  pie  dish,  put  in  the  pudding;  bake  40  minutes; 
strew  sifted  sugar  over  and  serve.     Bake  40  minutes.     Sufficient  for 

4  or  5  persons. 

CORN  MEAL  PUDDING. — Two  quarts  of  boiling  milk,  stir  in  t\vo 
cups  of  corn  meal,  2  spoonfuls  of  flour,  1-2  cup  of  molasses,  three 
pints  of  sweet  apples  sliced  and  2  spoonfuls  of  butter;  bake  3  hours. 

CORN  MEAL  PUDDING  No.  2. — Take  i  quart  of  sifted  cornmeal,  i 
cup  of  fresh  butter  and  stir  in  gradually  to  a  quart  of  boiling  milk; 
adding  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  or  orange.  Squeeze  the  juice  from 
the  orange,  11-2  cup  of  brown  sugar,  and  stir  that  in  also;  add  a  large 
teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon.  Have  ready  i  pound  of  raisins 


2S2  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

seeded  and  cut  in  two  and  well  rolled  in  flour  to  prevent  their  sink- 
ing; beat  6  eggs  till  very  smooth  and  gradually  stir  them  in,  and  the 
raisins,  which  should  be  dropped  in  a  few  at  a  time,  and  the  whole 
mixture  stirred  very  hard.  Dip  the  pudding  cloth  into  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water,  shake  it  out  and  dredge  it  with  flour.  Spread  out  the  cloth 
in  a  deep  empty  basin  or  pan  and  pour  in  the  pudding.  Tie  it  firmly, 
leaving  room  for  it  to  expand  in  boiling.  Lay  it  in  a  pot  of  hot  wa- 
ter and  let  it  boil  4  or  5  hours,  turning  it  over  several  times  while 
boiling;  pour  in  more  boiling  water,  as  it  boils  away.  A  kettle  should 
be  kept  for  the  purpose.  When  done  take  off  the  pudding  and  dip 
it  in  cold  water  for  a  moment  before  you  untie  the  cloth.  Turn  on 
a  dish  and  serve.  It  should  not  be  taken  up  till  the  minute  it  is 
wanted.  Eat  with  butter,  white  sugar,  nutmeg  and  lemon  or  orange 
juice  beaten  together  to  a  light  cream  or  wine  sauce.  'What  remains 
may  be  tied,  kept  in  a  tin  bucket  in  a  cool  place  and  boil  i  hour  for 
the  next  day's  dinner.  In  making  it  you  can  use  1-4  Ib.  of  minced 
suet  as  fine  as  possible  instead  of  butter. 

CORN  MEAL  FRUIT  PUDDING. — Six  coffee  cups -of  milk,  2  teacups 
of  white  corn  meal,  one  coffee  cup  of  wheat  flour,  5  eggs  well 
beaten,  i  coffee  cup  of  white  sugar,  3  large  tablespoonfuls  melt- 
ed butter,  1-2  pound  of  Sultana  raisins  or  seeded  ones  clipped  in  2 
or  3  pieces,  2  even  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  1-2  teaspoonful  each  of 
mace  and  cinnamon,  i  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  2  teaspoon  <uls  of  cream  tartar  sifted 
in  the  flour;  wet  the  meal  in  two  coffee  cups  of  boiling  milk,  stir 
it  till  almost  cold;  while  cooling  mix  the  flour  with  cold  milk  to  a 
paste  and  beat  that  in  the  coin  meal  mixture,  and  continue  to 
beat  constantly  for  15  minutes  or  longer  without  stopping;  then 
beat  the  eggs,  sugar  and  remaining  milk  to  a  custard;  then  after 
beating  this  add  gradually  into  the  meal  and  flour  paste  this  mix- 
ture; when  made  into  a  smooth,  light  batter  add  the  butter,  spice, 
the  fruit  dredged  well  with  flour  and  then  the  dissolved  soda. 
Beat  firmly  and  quick  and  see  that  every  stroke  reaches  the  bottom 
of  the  dish  and  stirs  up  the  batter  thoroughly.  Butter  a  dish  and 
pour  in  the  batter  and  bake  in  a  tolerably  brisk  even  oven.  If 
the  heat  be  right  it  will  bake  in  1-2  or  3-4  hour.  Should  it  brown 
too  rapidly  cover  with  a  paper.  This  pudding  is  liked  by  e'very 
one. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. — Three  quarts  of  scalded  milk,  7  tablespoon- 
fuls of  corn  meal  and  mix  while  hot;  let  it  stand  until  cool,  and 
then  add  4  eggs,  1-2  to  a  cupful  white  sugar,  1-2  pound  of  butter, 
i  tablespoonful  of  allspice  well  beaten  first  together  and  then  thor- 
oughly mix  with  the  first  mixture.  Bake  4  hours  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  253 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. — Two  quarts  of  new  sweet  milk,  i  cup 
of  white  corn  meal,  1-2  cup  each  molasses  and  sugar,  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  2  eggs,  a  grated  nutmeg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  gin- 
ger; leave  out  the  milk  and  stir  all  the  other  ingredients  well  togeth- 
er, then  pour  the  milk  on  them  boiling  hot  and  mix  thoroughly  all 
together;  pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  earthen  pudding  dish  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  3  hours,  stirring  frequently  the  first 
hour.  If  allowed  to  stand  i  hour  in  a  warm  oven  after  it  is  done  it 
will  improve  it.  Eat  with  butter  or  milk  and  sugar. 

SUPERIOR  CORN  MEAL  PUDDING. — Seed  T  pound  of  raisins  and 
clip  them  in  two;  spread  them  on  a  large  flat  dish  and  dredge  them 
with  fine  wheat  flour,  turning  them  over  so  that  both  sides  may  be 
well  floured.  Boil  2  pints  of  rich  new  milk,  remove  it  from  the  fire 
and  set  it  to  cool;  transfer  i  pint  of  the  milk  to  another  pan,  and 
while  it  is  still  warm  stir  a  cup  of  fresh  butter  chopped  up,  and  one 
cup'of  brown  sugar  or  molasses  mixed  with  the  grated  yellow  rind 
of  a  large  California  lemon  or  orange  and  the  juice;  add  a  glass  of 
brandy,  i  large  teaspoonful  each  of  pounded  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 
Beat  8  or  10  eggs  very  light,  and  when  it  is  quite  cold  stir  in  the 
eggs  slowly  into  the  other  pint;  then  mix  all  together,  using  suffi- 
cient bolted  white  corn  meal  to  make  the  batter  thick,  and  lastly 
mix  in  the  raisins,  a  few  at  a  time,  stirring  well  during  the  time,  and 
proceed  as  for  corn  meal  pudding.  If  there  is  not  time  to  boil  the 
pudding  for  several  hours  before  your  dinner  you  ran  prepare  it  the 
day  before  and  boil  it  during  the  afternoon  and  the  morning  of  the 
next  day.  Corn  meal  pudding  cannot  be  boiled  too  long — the  lon- 
ger the  better,  if  through  the  entire  day,  and  boiled  again  the  next 
morning. 

INDIAN  FRUIT  PUDDING. — Take  a  pint  of  hot  milk  and  stir  in  In- 
dian meal  till  the  batter  is  stiff,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  little 
molasses;  then  stir  in  a  pint  of  whortleberries  or  the  same  quantity 
of  chopped  sweet  apples;  tie  it  in  a  cloth  that  has  been  wet  and 
leave  room  for  it  to  swell,  or  put  in  a  pudding  pan  and  tie  a  cloth 
over;  boil  it  3  hours.  The  water  must  boil  when  it  is  put  in. 

BREAD  PUDDING. — (Dantzie).— Soak  a  loaf  of  bread  and  drain  it; 
allow  5  well  beaten  eggs  to  a  loaf,  a  little  salt,  cinnamon  well  chop- 
ped raisins,  sugar;  mix  thoroughly;  put  in  an  oven  and  bake  slowly. 

BREAD  PUDDING  FOR  INVALIDS  — Boil  a  piece  of  cinnamon  and 
lemon  peel  in  a  cup  (i  pint)  of  milk  and  pour  it  over  2  ounces  of 
stale  bread  crumbs,  add  3  well  whisked  eggs,  11-2  ounce  clean  cur- 
rants and  a  little  sugar.  Pour  into  a  buttered  mould  lined  with  well 
seeded  raisins,  steam  i  hour. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING  FOR  THE  SICK. — Sprinkle  some 
clean  currants  all  around  a  well  buttered  pie  dish,  then  lay  in  a  few 


254  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

slices  of  buttered  bread;  then  stir  into  i  pint  of  boiling  milk  2  well 
whisked  eggs;  then  pour  the  milk  on  the  buttered  bread.  Set  in  a 
hot  oven  and  bake  30  minutes. 

FI.OUR  PUDDING. — May  be  flavored  with  orange,  lemon,  vanilla 
or  with  sweet  almonds. 

N.  B.  All  these  and  similar  of  flour  pudding  may  be  heated  and 
finished  like  the  above,  only  add  before  you  mix  in  the  froth  either 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  or  orange  sugar,  2  ounces  of  nicely  picked 
and  washed  currants  or  i  ounce  of  bitter  almonds. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. — Slice  bread  with  butter  and  lay 
it  in  a  dish  with  currants  between  each  layer;  add  sliced  citron,  or- 
ange or  lemon,  if  it  be  very  nice;  pour  over  it  an  unboiled  custard 
of  milk,  3  or  4  eggs,  a  few  pimintoes  and  a  very  little  ratafia,  two 
hours  at  least  before  it  is  to  be  baked  and  pour  it  over  the  bread. 
A  paste  around  the  edges  makes  all  puddings  look  better,  but  it  is 
not  necessary. 

A  RICH  BREAD  PUDDING. — Simmer  4  pints  of  cream  with  salt, 
sugar,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace.  When  it  boils,  slice  in 
the  crusts  of  4  French  rolls  or  the  whole  of  2.  When  the  rolls  have 
soaked  up  the  cream  press  through  a  colander,  add  12  eggs,  leaving 
out  4  whites  ;  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar,  mix  well  together,  put  it  in  a 
buttered  basin  and  tie  a  cloth  over  securely  and  boil  i  hour. 

HOME  BREAD  PUDDING. — Pour  1-2  pint  of,scalding  milk  over  1-2 
pint  of  bread  crumbs,  cover  for  i  hour.  Beat  up  4  eggs,  and  when 
strained  add  to  the  bread  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  i  spoonful  of  butter, 
2  of  sugar,  1-2  Ib.  currants,  washed  and  picked;  i  oz.  beaten 
almonds,  with  orange  flower  water,  1-2  oz.  of  an  orange,  lemon  and 
citron.  Butter  a  basin  that  will  hold  it,  flour  a  cloth  and  tie  tightly 
over  it  and  boil  them.  Prunes,  or  plums,  or  cherries,  make  a  fine 
pudding  instead  of  raisins,  either  with  suet  or  as  bread  pudding. 

BROWN  BREAD  PUDDING. — One-half  Ib.  each  of  stale  brown  bread, 
grated,  currants,  shred  suet  and  sugar;  nutmeg;  mix  with  4  eggs, 
i  spoonful  brandy,  2  of  cream  ;  boil  in  a  cloth  or  basin  that  exactly 
holds  it  3  or  4  hours. 

BREAD  PUDDING — (Mrs.  Myers) — .Three  oz.  grated  bread ; 
pounded  almonds,  beaten,  i  oz. ;  fine  white  sugar,  3  oz.;  citron,  i 
outside,  grated;  spices  to  taste.  Mix  well  together  and  beat  with 
the  whites  of  eggs  and  stir  all  together.  Boil  or  bake  in  a  buttered 
form  i  hour.  Use  any  kind  of  wine  sauce. 

MUFFIN  PUDDING,  No.  i. — Cut  3  muffins  in  two;  pour  i  1-2 
pint  boiling  milk  over  them ;  let  them  stand  to  cool ;  make  a  cus- 
tard of  8  yolks  and  4  whole  eggs ;  beat  them  up  with  i  pint  of  cream 
and  i  glass  of  brandy,  i  nutmeg,  1-4  Ib.  of  sugar,  i  lemon  peel, 
grated ;  butter  a  mould  and  place  some  dried  cherries  in  it  accord- 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  255 

ing  to  fancy  ;  put  a  layer  of  muffin  drained,  and  dried  cherries,  and 
custard  to  cover  alternately,  till  the  mould  is  full ;  boil  in  a  stewpan 
with  a  little  water  for  the  mould  to  stand  in,  i  1-2  hours.  Serve 
with  wine  sauce. 

MACARONI  PUDDING — (Mrs.  Linaburg) — .One  quart  of  sifted 
flour,  2  eggs,  salt,  no  water,  roll  out,  put  some  salt  in  boiling  water, 
cut  the  maccaroni  in  pieces,  boil  1-2  hour,  pass  through  a  colender. 
then  mix  with  it  3  or  4  beaten  eggs,  sugar,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  all 
well  together.  Bake  in  an  oven. 

MACAROON  CUSTARD  PUDDING. — Fill  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with 
macaroons;  soak  them  with  white  wine  and  pour  over  them  a  cus- 
tard made  of  20  eggs,  1-2  pint  cream  and  a  pint  of  new  milk,  with 
the  addition  of  such  sweetmeats  as  may  be  agreeable.  The  dish 
may  be  lined  with  puff-paste,  but  care  must  be  taken  that  it  is  not 
baked  too  much. 

A  RICH  MACARONI  PUDDING. — Boil  in  a  pint  of  milk  for  1-2  an 
hour  4  oz.  of  pipe  macaroni,  then  turn  it  into  a  dish  and  mix  it  with 
3  eggs,  1-2  cup  of  loaf  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg  and  a  few  pounded 
almond  or  lemon  peel  or  a  little  cinnamon,  butter  the  mould  well 
and  boil  or  steam  i  hour.  Serve  up  with  wine  sauce. 

SPOONFUL  PUDDING — (Mrs.  Price). — One  spoonful  of  flour  and 
rich,  sweet  cream,  i  beaten  egg,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg.  Mix  all 
well  together  and  boil  30  minutes  in  a  cloth, 

RUSSIAN  SEED  OR  GROUND  RICE  PUDDING. — Boil  a  large  spoonful 
heaped,  either  of  the  seed  or  rice  flour,  in  a  pint  of  new  milk,  wtth 
lemon  peel  and  cinnamon.  When  cold,  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  and 
2  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  with  a  crust  round  the  dish. 

RICE  PUDDING — (Mrs.  Lane,  Panama).— One  cup  of  rice,  i  of 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  t  lemon ;  boil  the  rice  in  the  water  until 
very  soft,  then  add  the  sugar  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon  and  the 
eggs  beaten  well,  a  little  soda  and  salt.  Bake  1-2  hour;  then  beat 
the  whites  of  the  3  eggs,  adding  i  cup  of  white  sugar  and  the  juice 
of  the  lemon,  spreading  over  the  pudding,  and  set  back  in  the  oven. 
Bake  a  light  brown.  To  be  eaten  cold. 

RICE  PUDDING. — One  cup  of  boiled  rice,  2  quarts  milk,  1-2  cup 
of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  butter ;  salt,  spice  to  suit.  Bake  3  hours. 
Stir  while  baking. 

RICE  PUDDING  WITH  VANILLA. — This  pudding  can  be  made 
qnickly  and  easily  by  baking  in  a  dish  intead  of  a  buttered  mould. 
Prepare  the  rice  and  flavor  it  with  vanilla  sugar  instead  of  the  grated 
lemon  peel,  put  in  a  pie  dish  slightly  buttered.  Bake  for  1-2  hour. 
Sprinkle  some  sugar  over  it.  Any  kind  of  flavoring  may  be  used. 

SAN  GREGORIA  RICE  PUDDING. — Boil  well  1-2  Ib.  well-washed 
rice  in  2  pints  of  pure  milk,  taking  the  greatest  pains  to  prevent  it 


256  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

from  catching  at  the  bottom  of  the  sauce-pan.  Pare  8  large  apples 
fully  ripe  or  green,  take  out  the  cores  without  cutting  the  fruit  quite 
through,  put  a  little  raspberry  jam  into  each  hole  and  fill  up  with 
cream,  edge  a  pie-dish  with  a  rim  of  pie-paste,  lay  in  the  apples  and 
level  the  spaces  between  them  with  boiled  rice.  Break  over  it  the 
yolk  of  a  hen's  egg,  dust  it  well  with  powdered  loaf  sugar;  bake  40 
minute  in  a  quick  oven.  To  be  eaten  warm. 

ITALIAN  PUDDING. — Take  i  pint  of  rich  new  cream,  slice  therein 
as  much  French  roll  as  will  make  it  thick,  beat  up  5  eggs,  butter  the 
bottom  of  a  dish,  slice  8  pippins  into  it,  and  add  thereto  some  or- 
ange peel,  su^ar  and  1-2  pint  ofport  wine;  pour  in  the  batter,  cream, 
bread  and  eggs  and  lay  a  puff  paste  over  the  dish  and  bake  it  1-2 
hour. 

WEST  INDIAN  PUDDING. — One  pint  of  cream,  1-4  pound  of  loaf 
sugar,  1-2  pound  of  Savoy  or  sponge  cakes,  8  eggs,  3  ounces  pre- 
served green  ginger;  crumble  up  the  cakes,  put  them  into  a 
basin  and  pour  over  them  the  cream,  which  should  be  previously 
sweetened  and  brought  to  the  boiling  point;  cover  the  basin  well, 
beat  the  eggs,  and  when  the  cream  is  soaked  up  stir  them  in.  Butter 
a  mould,  arrange  the  ginger  around  it,  pour  in  the  pudding  carefully 
and  tie  it  down  with  a  cloth,  steam  or  boil  it  slowly  for  1-2  hour  and 
serve  with  the  syrup  from  the  ginger,  which  should  be  warmed,  and 
pour  over  the  pudding.  Boil  1-2  hour.  Sufficient  for  5  or  6  persons. 
Seasonable  at  all  times. 

AUNT  SUSAN'S  CUP  PUDDING. — Put  3  pints  of  milk  on  the  stove 
to  scald,  then  stir  into  another  cupful  of  milk  6  good  teaspoonfuls  of 
flour  and  stir  slowly  and  carefully  into  the  boiling  milk;  stir  until  it 
boils  we'll,  adding  a  little  salt.  Wet  cups  'in  cold  water  and  pour  in 
the  mixture  and  let  it  cool.  When  cold  serve  with  sweetened  cream 
flavored  to  taste. 

JELLY  PUDDING. — (J.  M.) — Five  large  tablespoonfuls  of  any  kind 
of  jelly,  3  eggs  beaten  up  with  the  jelly,  i  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  sugar  and  spices,  nutmeg,  mace  and  cinnamon. 

CHARLESTON  PUDDING. — Four  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda  and  2  of  cream  tartar;  beat  6  eggs  with  3  cups  of  sugar  till 
smooth,  i  cup  of  butter  and  i  of  cream  in  them;  gently  stir  in  the  flour. 

CHEESE  PUDDING. — (Mrs.  B.) — Mix  together  1-2  pound  grated 
cheese.  4  well  beaten  eggs,  1-2  pint  of  milk:  mix  well,  season  with 
a  little  salt  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish,  putting  some  slices  of  toast- 
ed bread  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish  or  not,  as  you  prefer. 

QUEKN  OF  ALL  PUDDING. — Beat  well  together  i  quart  of  new  milk, 
i  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  i  teacup  of  fine  white  sugar,  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla,  put  into  a  baking  dish,  set  in 
the  stove;  when  baked  spread  on  the  top  one  layer  of  preserves 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  257 

of  any  kind  you  fancy.  Then  take  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs  with  1-2  pound  or  more  of  finely  powdered  white  sugar 
whisked  well  together  till  solid,  making  a  stiff  icing,  and  spread 
on  the  top  of  the  preserves  and  put  into  the  stove  to  dry  but  not 
to  brown. 

QUEEN  OF  ALL  PUDDINGS,  which  will  keep  in  the  hottest  weather. 
Mrs.  Blackman  Seattle,  W.  T. — One  quart  crumbs  stale  light  bread,  4 
yolks  of  eggs,  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  i  cup  of  seeded  or  seedless 
raisins,  mix  very  slightly  with  i  quart  of  new  sweet  milk,  spice  to 
taste.  Bake  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  then  take  the  4  whites 
of  eggs  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar  and  beat  to  a  solid  froth; 
then  put  it  on  the  pudding  and  set  in  the  oven  to  become  slightly 
brown.  Serve  cold;  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING  FOR  THE  SICK. — Boil  a  piece  of  lemon  peel  and 
a  little  cinnamon  in  2  cups  of  milk  (i  pint),  then  add  2  ounces  of 
tapioca  and  boil  down  one-half:  add  i  ounce  of  butter,  2  fresh  eggs, 
pour  into  a  buttered  dish  or  mould  and  steam  30  minutes. 

VERMICELLI  PUDDING  FOR  INVALIDS. — Boil  in  2  cups  of  new  milk 
with  a  piece  of  cinnamon  1-2  a  bay  leaf,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel, when 
add  i  ounce  of  vermicelli;  when  boiled  to  1-2  add  two  well  beaten 
eggs,  a  little  sugar,  stir  well  and  pour  into  a  buttered  mould  and 
steam  30  minutes. 

BARLEY  PUDDING. — The  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  the  whites  of  3,  and 
put  them  into  a  quart  of  cream;  sweeten  to  taste  and  put  in  a  little 
orange  flower  or  use  water  with  i  pound  of  melted  butter;  add  three 
cups  of  pearl  or  French  barley  that  has  been  boiled  tender  in  milk  ; 
butter  a  dish,  pour  in  and  bake. 

MILLET  PUDDING. — Wash  3  spoonfuls  of  the  seed,  put  it  into  the 
dish  with  a  crust  around  the  edges,  pour  over  it  as  much  new  milk 
as  will  nearly  fill  the  dish,  2  spoons  of  butter  warmed  with  it,  sugar, 
beaten  lemon  and  scraps  of  ginger  and  nutmeg,  when  put  it  into 
the  oven,  stir  in  2  beaten  eggs  and  a  spoonful  of  chopped  suet, 

SEMOLINA  PUDDING  WITH  ORANGE  FLOWERS. — Boil  three  pints  of 
milk  in  a  stew  pan;  when  boiling  pour  in  1-2  pound  of  the  semolina 
with  one  hand  while  stirring  the  milk  with  the  other;  add  2  spoonfuls 
of  sugar,  T-2  cup  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  simmer  on  a  slow  fire 
for  20  minutes,  put  the  semolina  in  a  basin  and  mix  4  eggs  in  it,  be- 
ing careful  to  mix  each  egg  before  breaking  another;  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  candied  orange  flowers  previously  crushed  fine  with  the 
rolling-pin,  and  2  spoonfuls  of  sugar;  mix  all  well  together  and  put 
in 'a  mould  to  bake,  as  for  rice  pudding  with  lemon. 

WASHINGTON  PUDDING. — Slice  i  pound  of  butter,  4  pounds  of  su- 
gar together,  sift  i  quart  of  flour  into  the  butter  and  sugar  alternately 
with  the  flour,  and  a  pint  of  rich  milk  or  cream  (if  the  cream  is  sour 


SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

it  is  no  disadvantage),  one  pounded  nutmeg,  a  glass  of  brandy, 
a  glass  of  wine  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salaratus  or  pearl  ash ; 
stir  the  whole  very  hard,  bake  it  in  a  buttered  pan  in  a  brisk  oven. 
This  cake,  if  wrapped  in  a  cloth,  will  keep  a  week  in  a  soft  state, 
and  even  months,  if  buried  under  sugar  or  in  a  tight  tin  box. 

DELICIOUS  CITRON  PUDDING. — Beat  until  very  thick  and  light  the 
yolks  of  16  fresh  eggs,  stir  in  gradually,  beat  all  the  time,  3-4.  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  then  mix  in  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  melted 
butter  from  which  all  the  salt  has  been  previously  washed,  then  line 
2  deep  pie  plates  with  puff  paste,  cut  into  thin  slices,  some  preserv- 
ed citron  and  lay  closely  over  the  pastry,  leaving  a  margin  around 
the  edges;  fill  with  the  batter  and  bake  in  an  oven  heated  reg- 
ularly but  not  too  great.  When  drawn  from  the  oven  sift  over  them 
finely  pulverized  white  sugar.  They  are  good  whether  eaten  hot  or 
cold. 

CRUST  FOR  BOILED  PUDDINO. — To  4  pounds  of  flour  add  one  salt 
spoonful  of  culinary  alkali  powder,  mix  well  with  a  little  water — the 
dough  will  be  light 

POTATO  PUDDING. — (Mrs.  Tom  Moun  Randolph  of  Tuchohae. — 
Beat  a  pound  of  boiled  baked  sweet  potatoes  to  a  fine  paste ,  while 
beating  moisten  them  with  melted  butter,  (6  ounces  are  enough;) 
sweeten  with  sugar  or  honey,  mix  in  6  well  whisked  eggs;  mix  all 
till  smooth,  then  stir  in  some  rose  water,  a  little  wine  and  nutmeg; 
bake  in  a  pudding  dish.  Serve  very  hot. 

SWEET  OR  IRISH  POTATO  PUDDING. — Three-fourths  pound  of  but- 
ter, i  1-2  pound  of  sweet  or  Irish  potatoes,  juice  and  outer  peel  of 
i  lemon,  i  egg,  beaten  separately. 

PLArN  POTATO  PUDDING. — Take  1-2  pound  of  boiled  potatoes,  i 
cup  of  butter,  the  yolks  and  whites  of  2  eggs,  1-2  cup  of  cream,  i 
spoonful  of  California  wine,  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a 
lemon;  beat  all  to  a  froth  and  sugar  to  taste;  a  crust  or  not,  as  you 
map  approve.  Bake  it;  if  wanted  richer  add  i  spoonful  of  butter, 
some  sweetmeats  and  almonds  and  another  egg. 

FAMILY  POTATO  PUDDING  FOR  DESSERT. — Wash  to  a  pulp  i  Ib. 
of  boiled  mealy  potatoes,  1-4  pound  of  sugar,  i  ounce  of  almonds, 
i  1-2  pound  sweet  almonds;  all  beaten  fine  and  well  mixed;  cinna- 
mon and  cartoons  to  taste;  8  yolks  of  eggs;  well  mix  the  whole, 
then  beat  the  whites  to  a  solid  froth.  Put  all  in  a  well  greased  or 
buttered  pan  and  sprinkle  the  pan  with  bread  crumbs;  put  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  and  bake. 

N.  B.  This  pudding  can  be  boiled  2  hours  in  a  form. 

A  SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. — (Old  Virginia.) — One  pound  each 
of  butter  and  sugar,  2  pounds  of  boiled,  mashed  and  strained  sweet 
potatoes,  then  add  the  sugar  and  butter  to  the  potatoes  by  degrees 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  259 

with  5  eggs  well  beaten;  a  glass  of  wine,  i  of  brandy  and  i  of  rose 
water;  i  cup  of  cream,  1-2  tablespoonful  of  alspice.  Beat  the  whole 
to  a  cf£am.  Bake  in  a  deep  pan  or  in  a  crust. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. — Potatoes,  sugar,  butter,  cream,  wine 
or  brandy,  nutmeg,  lemon  peel  and  4  eggs.  Boil  the  potatoes  till 
thoroughly  done,  then  mash  fine,  add  the  butter  and  sugar  while  it  is 
hot,  allowing  to  every  2  pounds  of  potatoes  1-2  pound  of  sugar,  one 
half  pound  of  butter,  1-2  cup  sweet  cream,  1-2  cup  of  strong  wine 
or  brandy.  Beat  the  eggs  well  while  this  mixture  is  cooling  and  add 
the  seasoning  last.  Line  pie  plates  (earthen)  with  puff  paste  and 
pour  in  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  regularly  but  moderately  heated 
oven.  When  done,  take  from  the  fire,  cover  the  tops  with  quince 
marmalade  or  with  thinly  sliced  bits  of  citron  ;  then  strew  thickly 
over  this  granulated  white  sugar  and  serve  each  person  at  the  table 
with  this  and  a  glass  of  rich,  sweet  milk. — New  Orlaans  Housekeep- 
ing. 

SNOW  CAP  RICE  PUDDING. — Boil  i  Ib.  of  rice  in  4  pints  of  new 
sweet  milk  until  it  is  thoroughly  done  and  thick,  add  a  little  salt. 
Take  some  earthen  cups,  dip  them  in  cold  water  and  pour  the  rice 
in.  When  cold,  turn  them  out  in  a  dish  and  sift  powdered  loaf  su- 
gar and  grated  nutmeg  over  them  and  serve. 

CORN  STARCH  BAKED  PUDDING. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch  to  2  pints  of  milk,  dissolve  the  starch  in  some  of  the  milk. 
Put  into  the  remainder  of  the  milk  4  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel  or  cinnamon  stick,  and  heat  nearly  to 
boiling,  then  add  the  mixed  corn  and  boil,  stirring  it  briskly  4  min- 
utes, take  out  the  rind  and  pour  into  a  mould  or  cup  and  keep  till 
cold.  When  turned  out  pour  round  it  any  kind  of  stewed  fruit  or 
preserves  or  sauce  of  milk  and  sugar. 

BOILED  CORN  STARCH  PUDDING. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
corn  starch  to  i  quart  of  milk.  Dissolve  the  corn  in  some  of  ihe 
milk  and  mix  with  it  2  or  3  eggs  well  beaten  and  a  little  salt ;  heat 
the  remainder  of  the  milk  to  near  boiling;  add  the  above  prepara- 
ations  and  boil  4  minutes,  stirring  it  briskly.  Eat  warm  with  sauce. 

CRACKKD  WHEAT  PUDDING. — Boil  cracked  wheat  enough  for  two 
meals  ;  stir  in  a  few  minutes  before  boiling  up,  dates  or  any  dried 
fruit ;  next  day  prepare  a  custard  as  usual,  and  stir  thoroughly  the 
wheat  through  and  bake  just  long  enough  to  bake  the  the  custard ; 
thus  you  nave  two  desserts  with  little  trouble.  Palatable  and-  nutri- 
cious. — Mrs.  Lewis. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING  CRUST. — Make  a  crust  of  i  pint  of  fine  Gra- 
ham flour  and  i  gill  of  sweet,  dried  raspberries,  with  scalding  water, 
to  the  consistency  proper  for  biscuits,  roll  1-2  an  inch  thick,  cut  in 
squares  with  sharp  knife  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 


260 


SWEET    PUDDINGS. 


MUSH. — A  SOUTHERN  RECIPE. — Stir  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of  dry 
and  fine  cornmeal  (a  spoon  at  a  time)  in  i  1-2  pints  of  boiling  wa- 
ter; stir  till  smooth,  and  constantly,  with  an  iron  spoon,  till  the  meal 
is  thoreughly  cooked  and  the  mush  of  proper  consistency.  Eaten 
warm  or  cold,  with  sweet  milk  or  syrup. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. — Four  tablespoonfuls  of  Indian  meal  to  i  quart 
of  sweet  milk,  sweeten  with  honey,  molasses  or  sugar.  Mix  the 
meal  and  sweetening  together  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  then  i 
cup  of  sweet  cream  or  cold  milk. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. — Put  2  spoonfuls  of  tapioca,  11-2  pints  milk, 
i  spoonful  of  white  or  brown  sugar,  a  little  salt,  1-2  cup  of  fresh  but- 
ter, into  a  pan  and  set  it  on  the  fire,  boil  gently  for  15  minutes,  until 
the  tapioca  is  tender,  stirring  now  and  then  to  prevent  it  sticking  to 
the  bottom  or  burning  ;  then  add  2  eggs  well  beaten.  Steam  or  bake 
and  serve.  It  will  take  20  minutes  steaming,  or  1-4  hour's  boiling 
slightly.  Flavor  either  with  lemon,  cinnamon  or  any  other  essence. 

TAPIOCA  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. — Pare  8  apples  nice  and  (with 
an  apple-corer  which  no  household  should  be  without),  remove  the 
cores;  lay  the  apples  in  a  buttered  dish,  take  a  cupful  of  tapioca  or 
or  sago  and  pour  over  it  i  quart  of  water,  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes, 
add  2  cups  of  sugar,  a  little  lemon  juice  and  grated  peel,  pour  over 
the  apples  and  bake  i  hour. 

IRISH  POTATO  PUDDING— (Mrs.  B.). — One  Ib.  of  mashed  potatoes, 
3-4  of  a  Ib.  of  butter,  3-4  Ib.  of  sugar,  7  eggs  beaten  light,  i  gill  of 
brandy  and  i  of  rose  water.  Beat  the  butter  and  eggs  together  and 
add  the  other  ingredients,  and  whites  last  of  all.  Bake  with  paste 
or  without,  in  a  deep  dish. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. — One  Ib.  of  boiled  potatoes,  3-4  Ib.  of 
sugar,  1-2  Ib.  of  butter,  6  eggs  and  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy.  Bake 
in  a  buttered  pan  and  serve  hot. 

BATTER  PUDDING. — Break  4  fresh  eggs  in  a  basin,  add  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour;  beat  up  your  eggs  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
quite  smooth;  add  1-2  pint  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  salt,  butter  a  tea- 
cup, dish  or  basin  and  pour  in  your  mixture,  put  some  water  in  a 
stew-pan,  enough  to  reach  half-way  up  the  cup  or  basin,  and  boil  20 
minutes,  or  till  your  pudding  is  well  done,  pass  a  knife  around  to  loosen 
it  and  turn  out  on  a  plate,  pour  pounded  sugar  and  melted  butter  over 
and  serve.  A  little  lemon,  cinnamon  or  a  drop  or  two  of  essence 
may  be  introduced.  Pour  over  it,  if  approved,  a  sauce  made  of  but- 
ter, sherry  and  sugar.  If  required  more  delicate,  add  a  little  less 
flour.  It  maybe  served  plain. 

BATTER  PUDDING  BAKED  OR  BOILED. — Six  oz.  fine  flour,  a  little 
salt  and  3  eggs  well-beaten,  with  a  little  flour  added  by  degrees  until 
it  is  the  thickness  of  cream,  put  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  3-4 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  26l 

of  an  hour ;  or,  if  boiled,  put  it  into  a  buttered  and  floured  basin  tied 
over  with  a  cloth  ;  boil  i  1-2  hour. 

BATTER  PUDDING — (Mrs.  Price). — Beat  5  eggs  thoroughly,  then 
add  5  spoonfuls  of  flour  and  beat  again  till  the  mixture  is  smooth, 
then  add  a  little  salt  and  2  cups  of  milk,  then  stir  well  again.  Butter 
your  dish ;  put  in  batter  and  set  the  dish  in  a  very  hot  oven  and  bake 
30  minutes.  Serve  with  sweet  sauce  while  very  hot. 

COCOANUT  BREAD  PUDDING. — Soak  1-2  tumblerful  of  prepared 
cocoanut  for  1-2  an  hour  or  longer  in  boiling  milk,  then  add  three 
times  as  much  stale  and  fine  bread  crumbs  as  the  cocoanut.  Enrich 
and  flavor  to  suit  the  taste.  For  cocoanut  half-pound  pudding,  take 

1  cup  of  sugar,    1-2  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,   2  cups  cocoanut 
soaked  in  milk,  2   tablespoon fuls  of  butter,  2  beaten  eggs,  1-2  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  i  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING — (Macon,  Ga.). — One  finely  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  the  whites  of  6  well-beaten  eggs,  4  oz.  butter,  i  quart  of  rich, 
new  milk,  the  juice  of  the  cocoanut ;  sugar  to  taste  and  flavor  with 
orange  peel. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING  IN  PAPER  MOULDS. — Melt  together  a  piece 
of  fresh  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  water  and  a 
cupful  of  white  powdered  sugar,  in  a  porcelain-lined  sauce-pan  ;  boil 

2  minutes,  set  off  to  cool,  then  have   1-2  cocoanut  grated  very  fine, 
mix  with  it  a  tablespoonful  cut  currants,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  4  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,   the 
whites  to  a  solid  froth,  adding  the  whites  last,  then  fill  up  the  paper 
moulds  and  bake  immediately.     May  be  served  either  hot  or  cold  ; 
or  the  pudding  may  be  put  on  a  dish  and  baked  ;  but  it  is  more  dainty 
to  bake  in  moulds  and  serve  on  a  plate  for  each  person. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING — (Mrs.  Kendall's). — One  cocoanut,  3  eggs, 
1-4  Ib.  butter,  1-2  cup  sweet  milk  ;  sugar  and  spice  to  taste. 

SMALL  ALMOND  PUDDING. — Pound  8  oz.  almonds  and  a  few  bit- 
ter ones  with  a  spoonful  of  water,  mixed  with  4  oz.  warmed  butter, 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  2 
spoonfuls  of  cream  and  i  of  brandy ;  mix  well  and  bake  in  little 
cups  buttered.  Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

THUM  PUDDING. — Blanch,  peel  and  chop  very  fine  2  oz.  almonds 
and  some  lemon  peel ;  put  them  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  pint  of  milk 
and  sugar  to  taste ;  when  this  begins  to  boil,  stir  in  slowly  a  cup- 
ful ground  rice,  and  let  it  boil  10  minutes,  stirring  the  whole  time. 
Pour  in  a  mould,  and  when  cold  turn  it  out ;  put  2  oz.  white  sugar 
in  a  pan  with  a  little  water ;  stir  in  till  melted  and  becomes  a  light 
golden  brown  ;  add  a  pint  of  milk  ;  bring  this  to  a  boil,  then  strain 
it  and  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs;  put  the  strained  miik  and  eggs  on 
the  fire  and  stir  till  it  thickens,  then  pour  it  round  the  pudding. 


262  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING — (Mrs.  Lane). — Boil  i  quart  of  milk,  then 
stir  in  it  i  1-2  cakes  grated  chocolate;  let  it  stand  1-4  hour,  then 
stir  in  6  well-beaten  eggs,  save  out  the  whites  of  4  eggs ;  2-3  cup  of 
sugar.  Bake  in  a  deep  dish,  as  you  would  a  custard  ;  beat  the  whites, 
add  4  spoonfuls  of  white  sugar ;  spread  this  froth  over  the  top,  and 
set  it  back  in  the  oven.  Bake  a  light  brown.  Eat  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. — Half  Ib.  grated  chocolate,  the  yolks  of  8 
eggs  well-beaten,  12  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1-2  glass  wine,  1-2  tea- 
spoonful  alspice,  i  cup  powdered  crackers ;  mix  the  whole  thor- 
oughly and  smoothly;  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  solid 
froth.  Bake  slowly  and  well,  after  pouring  smoothly  the  beaten 
whites  on  the  top. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING — (Mrs.  P.).— One  quart  milk,  ^  tablespoon  - 
fuls  sugar,  4  of  corn  starch,  2  1-2  of  chocolate  ;  scald  the  milk  over 
boiling  water;  dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  scalded  milk,  and 
before  it  thickens  add  the  chocolate  in  boiling  water;  stir  until  suffi- 
ciently cooked.  Use  with  cream  or  sauce  of  butter  and  sugar  stir- 
red to  a  cream. 

WHITE  ALMOND  PUDDING  ICES — (Mrs.  B.). — Scald  and  skin  four 
oz.  almonds  with  6  or  8  bitter  ones,  put  on  a  sieve  to  drain  and  dry  ; 
when  cold  put  them  in  a  mortar  with  1-2  oz.  sugar  and  ten  or  a  dozen 
candied  pieces  of  orange  flowers,  pound  them  we'll  in  a  mortar,  pass 
through  a  wire  sieve  and  place  in  a  stew-pan  with  the  beaten  yolks 
8  egs,  beat  all  the  ingredients  well  together,  then  in  another  sauce- 
pan have  boiling  3  cups  of  milk,  which  pour  over  the  mixture  by  de- 
grees; keeping  it  stirred,  place  it  over  the  fire,  stirring  it  till  it  thickens, 
and  adheres  to  the  back  of  the  spoon.  When  cold  put  it  into  your 
freezing  pot,  and  when  half-frozen  add  3  cups  of  whipped  cream  ; 
when  quite  frozen  fill  a  mould  and  serve  as  pudding. 

FROZEN  PUDDING. — First  make  a  custard  of  6  cups  of  new  sweet 
milk  with  9  well-beaten  eggs,  separated  (whites  and  yolks),  4  oz. 
each  of  citron  chopped  fine,  currants,  raisins  seeded  and  chopped 
fine,  preserved  peaches,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot,  4  oz.  of 
scraped  chocolate.  Stir  till  smooth,  sweeten  to  taste  and  freeze  in  a 
shape. 

ICED  PUDDING. — Parboil  some  of  the  best  Southern  rice,  1-2  Ib., 
then  put  it  into  a  boiler  with  3  cups  of  new,  sweet  milk  and  2  cups 
of  double  cream  or  very  thick,  rich  cream,  3-4  Ib.  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
2  sticks  of  cinnamon  or  vanilla ;  let  the  whole  boil  very  gently  over 
a  slow  fire ;  when  the  grains  are  almost  melted,  stirring  it  now  and 
then,  and  when  the  rice  is  boiling  hot,  add  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  well  beat- 
en, then  stir  all  together  for  a  few  minutes,  then  slice  up  2  dozen 
apricots  or  i  dozen  peaches,  both  peel  and  boil  them  with  3-4  11).  of 
sugar  and  i  cup  of  water,  until  the  fruit  is  soft  enough  to  pass  through 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  263 

a  sieve ;  if  thick,  thin  with  a  little  syrup ;  then  freeze  in  the  usual 
way  by  placing  the  foam  in  the  freezing  mixture,  and  then  pouring 
in  the  fruit,  the  rice  custard  also  being  frozen  in  the  same  manner. 
The  two  ices  being  prepared,  a  mould  should  be  lined  with  the  apri- 
cot ice,  about  1-2  thick,  then  fill  up  the  hollow  space  with  the  frozen 
ice  custard ;  put  the  closely  fitting  lid  on  the  mould  and  keep  it  im- 
mersed in  the  pounded  ice  till  about  to  be  served,  then  turn  it  on  a 
a  dish  surrounded  with  whipped  cream  nicely  flavored,  in  hollow  or 
gouffres  papers. 

ICED  PUDDING — (Denison  Recipe)  — Half  pound  sweet  almonds, 
2  oz.  bitter  ones,  3-4  Ib.  sugar,  8  eggs,  1-2  pint  milk.  Blanch 
the  almonds  thoroughly  in  a  cloth,  then  pound  them  in  a  mortar  and 
beat  till  reduced  to  a  smooth  paste  ;  add  to  these  the  well-beaten  eggs, 
the  sugar  and  milk,  stir  these  ingredients  over  the  fire  until  they 
thicken,  but  do  not  let  them  boil ;  then  steam  and  put  the  mixture 
into  the  freezing-pot ;  surround  it  with  ice  and  freeze  as  directed  for 
iced  apple  pudding.  When  quite  frozen  fill  an  iced  pudding  mould, 
put  on  the  lid  and  keep  the  pudding  in  ice  until  required  for  the  ta- 
ble ;  then  turn  it  out  on  a  dish  and  garnish  it  with  a  compote  of  any 
kind  of  fruit  that  may  be  preferred,  pouring  a  little  over  the  top  of 
the  pudding.  This  pudding  may  be  flavored  with  vanilla,  curacoa 
or  marasquino — 1-2  hour  to  freeze  the  mixture.  Always  seasonable. 

TRANSPARENT  PUDDING. — (Mrs.  Beattie.)  Beat  thoroughly  to- 
gether 8  eggs  and  i  pound  of  white  sugar  together,  put  1-2  pound 
of  sweet,  fresh  butter  in  a  bell-metal  kettle  and  melt  over  a  slow 
fire,  then  stir  in  the  beaten  eggs  and  sugar  to  the  butter  till  the 
mixture  becomes  transparent ;  pour  on  a  crust  of  baked  pastry 
and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  till  it  becomes  a  very  light  brown;  serve. 
A  genuine  centennial  receipt. 

PUDDING  WITHOUT  EGGS. — Grate  a  thick  slice  of  bread  fine,  pour. 
a  pint  of  boiling  milk  over  it  and  cover  close  up  for  1-2  hour  ; 
then  add  some  marmalade,  grated  lemon  or  any  flavoring  you  like ; 
sugar  to  taste  and  1-2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  If  desired  add  a  glass 
of  wine;  pour  all  into  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  for  1-4  hour. 

RAILROAD  PUDDING. — One  cup  of  molasses,  i  cup  of  cream,  i 
cup  of  sour  milk,  i  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  mix  with  cold  water 
to  the  consistency  of  a  stiff  batter.  This  is  sufficient  for  4  cups. 
Steam  20  minutes.  To  be  eaten  with  sweetened  cream. 

WAFER  PUDDING. — One  tablespoonful  of  flour,  2  ounces  of  but- 
ter, 2  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk,  i  lemon  ;  beat  the  but- 
ter to  a  cream,  sift  the  flour  in  gradually,  pare  and  finely  mince 
the  rind  only  of  the  lemon,  add  the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  well 
beaten  to  the  milk  and  mix  all  thoroughly.  Bake  in  well  buttered 
saueers  for  20  minutes ;  serve  with  sifted  sugar ;  care  must  be  taken 
that  the  oven  is  not  too  hot. 


264  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

COLLEGE  PUDDING. — One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  6  ounces  of 
finely  chopped  suet,  1-4  pound  of  currants,  a  few  thin  slices  of  can- 
died peel,  3  ounces  of  sugar,  1-4  nutmeg,  3  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  brandy ;  put  the  bread  crumbs  into  a  basin,  add  the  suet,  currants, 
candied  peel,  sugar,  and  nutmeg  grated,  and  stir  these  ingredients 
until  they  are  thoroughly  mixed.  Beat  up  the  eggs,  moisten  the 
pudding  with  these  and  put  in  the  brandy ;  beat  well  for  a  few  min- 
utes, then  form  the  mixture  into  round  balls  or  egg-shaped  pieces, 
fry  these  in  hot  butter  or  lard,  letting  them  stew  till  thoroughly  done, 
and  turn  them  over  2  or  3  times  till  of  a  bright  brown,  drain  them 
on  a  piece  of  blotting  paper  before  the  fire,  dish  and  serve  with  wine 
sauce."  Fry  from  15  to  20  minutes.  Sufficient  for  7  or  8  puddings. 
Seasonable  at  any  time. 

UNIVERSITY  PUDDING.— Grate  the  crust  of  a  small  loaf,  chop  very 
fine  8  ounces  beef  suet,  mix  with  8  ounces  currants,  i  ounce  citron, 

1  ounce  orange,  3  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  1-2  nutmeg,  3  eggs  beaten, 
yolks  and  whites  separately,  mix  and  make  into  the  size  and  shape 
of  goose  egg ;  put  1-2  pound  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan,  and  when 
melted  and  quite  hot  stew  them  gently  in  it  over  a  stove  ;  turn  them 

2  or  3  times  till  of  a  fine  brown  color;  mix  a  glass  of  brandy  with 
the  batter.     Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

ROLY  POLY  JAM  PUDDING. — Three-fourth  pound  of  suet  crust 
(see  receipt),  3-4  pound  of  any  kind  of  jam,  make  a  nice  light  suet 
crust  and  roll  it  out  to  the  thickness  of  1-2  inch,  spread  the  jam 
equally  over  it,  leaving  a  small  margin  of  paste  without  any  where 
the  pudding  joins,  roll  it  up,  fasten  the  ends  securely  and  tie  it  in  a 
floured  cloth  ;  put  the  pudding  in  boiling  water  and  boil  it  2  hours. 
Minced  meat  or  mountain  cake  may  be  substituted  for  the  jam,  and 
makes  an  excellent  pudding.  Boil  for  2  hours.  Sufficient  for  5  or 
6  persons.  Suitable  for  winter  pudding. 

BRANDY  PUDDING. — Line  a  mould  with  raisins,  stoned  and  chop 
ped  or  dried  cherries,  mix  with  slices  of  French  roll,  then  some  rata- 
fia or  macaroons,  after  which  place  in  layers,  fruits,  rolls  and  cakes  in 
succession  till  the  mould  is  full,  pour  over  the  whole  two  glasses  of 
brandy,  beat  up  the  yolks  and  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  then  to  a  pint  of 
cream  lightly  sweetened  put  1-2  a  nutmeg  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
both  grated.  Suffer  the  liquid  to  soak  up  the  whole,  then  flour  a 
cloth,  tie  it  overall  and  boil  i  hour,  keeping  the  mould  the  right  side 
upward.  Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

MINCED  PUDDING. — Take  1-2  pound  each  of  sugar  and  raisins, 
1-4  each  of  currants  and  chopped  citron,  i  dozen  apples  chopped 
fine,  and  a  lemon  or  an  orange  sliced,  i  tablespoonful  of  ground  spice, 
nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves  ;  mix  all  well  together,  then  one  loaf 
of  stale  bread  grated,  1-4  pound  butter;  grease  your  baking  dish 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  265 

with  butter,  dredge  the  sides  and  bottom  with  bread  crumbs,  then 
first  put  in  a  layer  of  the  fruit  mixture,  then  some  of  the  batter,  then 
the  bread.  Thus  fill  up  the  dish  io  alternate  layers  to  next  to  the  last, 
with  the  last  layer  of  butter  and  the  top  of  bread  crumbs. 

SAUCE  FOR  MINCED  PUDDING. — A  clear  sauce  as  for  any  other  pud- 
ding. 

LENT  PUDDING. — Simmer  a  quart  of  cream  with  2  or  3  blades  of 
mace,  take  it  off  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  8  eggs  and  whites  of 
4;  stone  and  clip  in  half  1-2  pound  of  raisins,  sugar  1-2  pound,  and 
butter  1-4  pound  ;  stir  all  well  together,  dip  a  cloth  in  milk,  spread  it 
with  butter,  strew  with  flour,  put  in  the  pudding,  tie  it  up  close  and 
boil  3-4  hour.  Serve  with  melted  butter  and  sugar. 

DELHI  OR  ORIENTAL  PUDDING. — Four  large  apples,  some  grated 
nutmeg,  i  teaspoonful  of  minced  lemon  peel,  2  large  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  6  ounces  of  currants,  3-4  pound  of  suet  crust ;  pare,  core, 
and  cut  the  apples  into  slices,  put  them  into  a  sauce  pan  with  the 
nutmeg,  lemon  peel  and  sugar,  stir  them  over  the  fire  till  soft,  then 
have  ready  the  above  proportion  of  crust,  roll  it  out  thin,  spread  the 
apples  over  the  paste,  sprinkle  over  the  currants,  roll  the  pudding  up, 
closing  the  ends  properly,  tie  it  in  a  floured  cloth  and  boil  for  two 
hours.  Sufficient  for  5  or  6  persons. 

SCIENTIFIC  RECIPE  OF  THK  CARTHEGENIAN  PUDDING. — Put  a 
pound  of  red  wheat  flour  into  water;  when  it  has  steeped  sometime 
transfer  it  to  a  wooden  bowl,  add  3  pounds  of  cream  cheese,  1-2  Ib. 
of  honey  and  i  egg.  Beat  the  whole  together  and  cook  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  over  a  slow  fire. 

HERODITUS  PUDDING. — One-half  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  1-2  Ib. 
of  figs,  6  ounces  of  suet,  6  ounces  of  moist  sugar,  1-2  pound  of  salt, 
3  eggs,  nutmeg  to  taste.  Mince  the  suet  and  figs  very  finely,  add 
the  remaining  ingredients,  taking  care  that  the  eggs  be  well  whisked ; 
beat  the  mixture  for  2  few  minutes,  put  it  into  a  buttered  mould,  tie 
it  down  with  a  floured  cloth  and  boil  the  pudding  for  five  hours.  Sea- 
sonable at  any  time. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. — Take  ripe  currants,  and  having  stripped  them 
from  the  stalks,  measure  as  many  as  will  make  a  quart,  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  deep  dish  with  slices  of  bread  slightly  buttered  and  with 
crust  cut  off;  put  a  thick  layer  of  currants  over  the  bread  and  then 
a  layer  of  sugar,  and  then  other  layers  of  bread,  currants  and  sugar, 
till  the  dish  is  full,  finishing  at  the  top  with  thin  slices  of  bread.  Set 
it  into  the  oven  and  bake  it  half  an  hour.  Serve  it  either  warr.i  or 
cold,  and  eat  it  with  sweetened  milk. 

STEAMED  BATTER  PUDDING. — One  quart  sour  milk,  i  1-2  teaspoon- 
ful soda,  2  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  fruit,  1-2  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Steam  2  hours. 


266  SWBBT  PUDDINGS. 

AMHERST  PUDDING. — Two  cups  flour,  3-4  cup  of  molasses,  i  cup 
of  milk  (cream  preferable),  i  cup  of  chopped  raisins;  i  cup  of  chop- 
ped suet,  i  teaspoon  of  soda ;  spice  to  the  taste.  Steam  three 
hours. 

SPOONFUL  PUDDING. — A  spoonful  of  milk,  a  little  nutmeg,  gin- 
ger and  salt ;  a  spoonful  of  flour,  an  egg,  mixed  well  together  and 
boil  it  in  a  pudding  dish;  for  one  person. 

MELON-SHAPED  PUDDING. — Mix  i  pound  each  of  suet  and  flour, 
3-4  pound  currants  or  raisins,  6  eggs,  a  little  good  milk,  sweet 
and  new,  a  little  salt,  some  lemon  peel.  Bake  in  a  melon-shape 
6  hours. 

PUDDING  (Turkish.) — Moisten  and  press  twelve  ounces  of 
figs  through  a  sieve,  add  6  ounces  each  of  chopped  suet,  sugar 
and  bread  crumbs;  2  eggs  beaten  and  a  cup  of  peel ;  mix  well  and 
put  into  a  mould  and  boil  for  4  hours.  Serve  with  brandy  sauce. 

PUDDING  FOR  CHILDREN. — Sugar  and  eggs ;  brown  before  the  fire 
or  dropped  as  fritters  into  a  frying  pan  without  fat ;  will  make  them 
a  nourishing  meal. 

A  QUICK-MADE  PUDDING. — One  half  pound  each  of  flour  and 
suet,  4  eggs,  a  cup  of  new  milk,  a  little  mace  and  nutmeg,  1-4  Ib. 
of  raisins  and  1-4  pound  of  currants.  Mix  well  and  boil  45  min- 
utes with  the  cover  on  the  pot,  or  it  will  require  longer. 

PUDDING  IN  HASTE. — Mix  shread  suet  with  grated  bread  crumbs, 
a  handful  of  currants  cleaned  or  a  few  stoned  raisins,  the  beat  yolks 
of  3  eggs  and  the  white  of  i  with  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  to  a  stif- 
fish  paste;  roll  this  in  flour,  and  with  two  spoons  make  it  into 
small  balls ;  have  ready  a  pan  of  fast  boiling  water,  drop  them 
in.  When  done  they  will  rise  to  the  top. 

INDIAN  HASTY  PUDDING. — Place  on  the  fire  3  quarts  of  boiling 
water  with  a  little  salt,  stir  in  by  degrees  3  quarts  of  Indian  meal 
and  1-4  pound  of  butter.  It  should  be  stirred  until  quite  thick. 
Serve  it  hot  and  eat  it  with  milk  or  cream,  and  sugar. 

SHAKER'S  PUDDINU. — Boil  some  large  mace,  sliced  ginger  and 
nutmeg;  laurel  leaves  in  a  quart  of  sweet  cream,  then  add  almonds 
beaten  in  rose  water  4  ounces,  whites  of  8  eggs ;  strain  all  these  to- 
gether, mingle  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  grated  bread,  sweeten  to 
taste  with  loaf  sugar  or  honey,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  tie  it  very  light 
in  a  pudding  cloth  well  floured  or  buttered,  put  it  into  fast  boiling 
water  and  boil  it  i  hour,  or  it  may  be  baked.  Serve  with  wine  sauce 
or  melted  butter,  sugar  and  lemon  juice  or  with  honey  melted 
with  butter  and  flavored  with  nutmeg. 

SHAKING  PUDDING. — Scald  a  quart  of  cream,  when  almost  cold 
put  to  it  4  eggs  well  beaten,  a  spoonful  and  a  half  of  flour,  some 
nutmeg  and  sugar,  tie  it  close  in  a  buttered  cloth,  boil  it  i  hour 


SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

and  turn  it  out  with  care  lest  it  should  crack.  Eat  it  with  melted 
butter  and  a  little  wine  and  sugar. 

EDINBURGH  FIG  PUDDING. — Three-fourth  pound  grated  bread, 
1-2  pound  best  figs,  6  ounces  suet,  6  ounces  moist  sugar,  i  teacup- 
ful  of  milk  and  a  little  nutmeg.  The  figs  and  suet  must  be  chopped 
very  fine;  mix  the  bread  and  suet  first  and  then  the  figs,  suet  and 
nutmeg;  one  well  beaten  egg,  lastly  the  milk.  Boil  in  a  mould  four 
hours.  To  be  eaten  with  wine  sauce. 

COAST  RANGE  PUDDING. — Four  tablespoonfuls  rice  or  semolina,  i 
pint  of  cream,  3  spoons  of  butter,  mix  all  together  in  a  stew  pan, 
put  it  over  the  fire,  stirring  all  the  time  till  it  boils ;  when  quite  thick 
take  it  off  the  fire  and  add  5  eggs,  the  whites  of  2,  i  1-2  cup  of  su- 
gar (loaf,)  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  bake  an  hour,  then  have  another 
dish,  on  which  put  a  layer  of  raspberry  jam,  then  the  pudding,  then 
a  layer  of  apricot  jam. 

COMARQUES  PUDDING — Excellent. — Five  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  rind  of  i  lemon,  1-2  pint 
of  cream  and  different  kinds  of  preserves.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  the  eggs  separately  and  put  them  into  different  basins ;  stir  the 
flour,  sugar  and  lemon  peel  into  the  yolks,  whip  the  cream  very  thick 
and  put  it  on  a  sieve  to  harden,  then  add  it  with  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  the  other  ingredient,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  little,  deep 
saucers  just  before  putting  into  the  oven.  Bake  about  half  an  hour. 
When  taken  out  a  very  thin  layer  of  different  kinds  of  preserves 
should  be  put  upon  each,  and  they  should  be  piled  one  above  the 
other,  a  little  whipped  cream  placed  here  and  there  upon  the  pud- 
ding, as  a  garnish  would  be  found  to  improve  the  appearance  of  this 
dish.  Bake  about  1-2  hour.  Sufficient  for  4  or  5  persons.  Season- 
able at  any  time. 

SAN  JOSE  PUDDING. — Put  1-2  pound  of  butter  in  ajar  and  stand 
the  jar  in  hot  water  until  the  butter  is  melted  ;  stir  with  1-2  pound 
pounded  loaf  sugar  and  beat  them  well  together  till  the  butter  is 
nearly  cold,  stir  to  this  the  grated  rind  of  two  large  lemons  and 
add  their  juice,  beat  6  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately,  add  them 
to  the  mixture,  beat  all  well  together.  Line  a  pie  dish  with  puff  paste, 
cover  the  bottom  of  it  with  preserved  apricots,  peaches,  raspberries 
or  strawberries,  pour  the  mixture  over  it,  ornament  the  edge  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  1-2  hour.  Serve  this  cold. 

GRAND  HOTEL  PUDDING. — Make  a  thick  batter  by  boiling  and 
sweetening  milk  and  flour;  when  cold  and  finer  mash  it  up  and 
add  i  1-2  cup  of  butter,  melted;  i  1-2  cup  of  currants,  2  oz. 
candied  lemon  and  orange  peel  sliced  and  a  little  brandy  if  ap- 
proved Butter  teacups  and  bake  the  pudding  in  them  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Turn  them  out  on  a  dish  and  pour  fine  sauce  over  them 


268  SWEET    PUDDINGS. 

if  to  be  eat  hot.  If  to  make  a  cold  ornamental  supper  dish  omit 
the  wine  sauce. 

PUDDING  BOILED. — One-half  cup  of  molasses,  i  cup  of  chop- 
ped raisins,  i  cup  of  milk,  1-3  of  butter,  1-2  teaspoonful  ofsala- 
ratus  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Boil  3  hours  ;  eat 
with  a  rich  sauce. — Mrs.  Lane. 

SAN  FRANCISCO  PUDDING  WITH  SAUCE. — Beat  for  one  minute  ten 
eggs  in  a  basin,  and  while  doing  so  add  4  ounces  of  pounded 
sugar,  i  1-2  pints  of  boiled  milk,  two  spoonfuls  of  kirschen \\as- 
ser  and  strain  the  custard  through  a  hair  sieve  or  cloth  into  a 
basin  ;  seed  a  cupful  of  raisins,  pick,  wash  and  dry  1-2  cup  of  cur- 
rants, 3  pounded  apricots,  1-2  cup  of  dried  cherries.  Butter  a 
plain  pudding  mould,  put  a  round  of  paper  at  the  bottom  and  set 
in  a  1-4  inch  layer  of  the  mixed  fruit,  on  this  a  layer  of  finger 
biscuits  or  slices  of  sponge  cake ;  continue  the  alternate  layers  till 
the  mould  is  2-3  full,  pour  in  the  custard  slowly,  let  it  stand  for 
a  few  minutes  and  cook  the  pudding  slowly  without  boiling,  turn 
it  out  of  the  mould  on  to  a  dish  and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  as  fol- 
lows : 

Break  8  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  stew  pan  with  1-2  pint  of  syrup,  stir 
over  the  fire  until  the  sauce  cools  the  spoon,  add  i  gill  of  Kirsch- 
enwasser,  strain  the  sauce  through  a  cloth  and  serve  in  a  bowl  with 
the  pudding. 

MRS.  MADISON'S  PUDDING. — Melt  1-2  pound  of  butter  by  setting 
it  in  a  basin  floating  with  hot  water  and  gradually  mix  with  it  the 
beaten  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  the  whites  of  four,  sweeten  with  fine 
pounded  sugar  and  season  with  the  grate  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  nut- 
meg. Bake  in  a  dish  with  an  ornamented  paste  border  and  when 
ready  stick  slices  of  citron  or  candied  orange  peel  round  the  edges. 

CONFEDERATE  PUDDING. — (Mrs.  Alexander  Duvall,  Richmond, 
Va  )— Four  cups  boiling  sweet  milk,  a  large  spoonful  of  sweet  butter 
melted  in  it  and  poured  hot  on  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs.  When  cold 
stir  in  a  cupful  of  white  sugar,  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  season 
with  grated  orange  peel  and  bake.  While  hot  spread  thereon  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  solid  froth  and  floured  with  fine  white  sugar  and 
bitter  almonds  ;  set  in  the  oven  again  and  bake  5  minutes. 

ROYAL  COCKNEY  PUDDING. — One  pint  of  new  milk,  6  oz.  of  flour, 
6  ounces  of  sugar,  6  ounces  of  butter,  6  ounces  of  currants,  6  eggs, 
brandy  and  grated  nutmeg  to  taste.  Mix  the  flour  to  a  smooth  bat- 
ter with  the  milk,  add  the  remaining  ingredients  gradually,  and  when 
well  mixed  put  it  into  fruit  basins  or  moulds  1-2  full,  bake  for  3-4 
hour.  Sufficient  for  6  or  8  persons.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

CREAM  PUDDING. — Six  eggs,  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  piece  of 
soda  the  size  of  a  pea,  8  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  i  teaspoouful  salt, 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  269 

i  1-2  pints  of  cream  or  milk.  Serve  with  some  sauce  or  sugar  and 
butter  well  beaten. 

CREAM  PUDDING. — Two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  t  spoonful  of  sugar, 
mix  them  with  a  pint  of  cream  and  8  yolks  of  eggs ;  boil  or  steam  it 
in  a  basin,  tie  over  with  a  cloth ;  3-4  of  an  hour. 

SNOW  PUDDING. — Pour  enough  cold  water  on  a  box  of  gelatine  to 
cover  it,  let  it  remain  a  few  moments,  then  add  a  pint  of  boiling  wa- 
ter; when  dissolved  add  juice  of  one  lemon  and  4  cups  of  sugar 
powdered.  Stir  till  cold,  then  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs  ; 
stir  all  for  i  hour.  Make  a  rich  custard  of  yolks  of  eggs  and  use  a 
sauce. 

COWSLIP  PUDDING. — Two  quarts  cowslip  pips,  pound  them  small 
with  1-2  Ib.  Naples  biscuit  grated  and  3  pints  cream.  Boil  them  to- 
gether, then  beat  up  10  eggs  with  a  little  cream  and  water  sweetened 
to  your  taste ;  mix  the  whole  well,  butter  a  dish  and  pour  the  ingre- 
dients in,  with  a  little  fine  sugar  over  all,  and  bake  it. 

PAN  CAKE  PUDDING. — Take  i  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs  and  2  large 
spoonfuls  flour,  with  ^ome  salt  and  grated  ginger.  Beat  all  up  into 
a  smooth  batter  and  put  it  into  a  buttered  dish.  When  baked  pour 
over  it  melted  butter. 

EGG  PUDDING. — One  quart  milk,  8  beaten  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls 
soda  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

PLAIN  SWEET  PUDDING — (Mrs.  Tom.  M.  Randolph,  of  Tucka- 
hoe).  — Boil  i  quart  of  milk,  stirring  in  very  slowly  as  much  flour  as 
will  make  it  pretty  thick,  take  it  off  the  fire  and  stir  in  1-2  Ib.  butter, 
1-2  Ib.  sugar,  a  small  nutmeg  grated  (beginning  at  the  blossom  end), 
the  yolks  of  '12  and  the  whites  of  6  eggs  well  whisked.  Pour  the 
batter  into  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  rather  more  than  1-2  hour. 
Serve  with  sweet  sauce  flavored  to  suit  the  taste. 

A  RICH  PUDDING — (Contributed  by  Mrs.  P.  W.,  of  San  Francisco, 
Cal.). — Six  eggs,  3  spoonfuls  of  flour,  i  pint  of  milk,  i  teaspoonful 
salt ;  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately ;  mix  the  well-beaten 
yolks  with  the  flour,  add  the  milk  and  stir  till  perfectly  smooth,  then 
add  the  whites  whisked  to  a  stiff  froth  and  work  them  in  and  bake 
immediately. 

BUTTERMILK  PUDDING. — Warm  3  quarts  of  new  buttermilk  and 
turn  it  with  i  quart  of  buttermilk;  drain  the  curd  through  a  sieve, 
and  when  dry  pound  it  in  a  marble  mortar  with  1-2  Ib  loaf  sugar,  a 
lemon  boiled  tender,  the  crumbs  of  a  roll  grated,  a  nutmeg,  also 
grated,  6  bitter  almonds,  i  1-4  cups  of  butter,  warm;  a  teaspoonful 
of  cream,  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  and  the  whites  of  3,  a  glass  of  wine 
and  another  of  brandy.  Bake  in  small  cups  or  basins  well-buttered, 
and,  if  the  bottoms  are  not  burned,  use  a  salamander.  Serve  hot 
and  with  pudding  sauce. 


27O  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

GINGER  PUDDING. — Put  12  sponge  biscuits,  soaked  in  a  pint  of 
cream  or  milk,  10  eggs,  2  oz.  preserved  root  ginger,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  a  spoonful  of  the  ginger  syrup  and  i  spoonful  melted  butter. 
Bake  it  in  a  dish  lined  with  tart  paste,  or  boil  in  a  mould  standing  in 
a  stew-pan  with  a  little  water. 

HALF- FROG  PUDDING. — Half  Ib  suet,  1-3  Ib.  currants,  1-4  Ib. 
raisins,  1-4  Ib.  flour,  1-4  bread  crumbs,  2  teaspoonfuls  treacle,  1-2 
pint  milk;  chop  the  suet  finely,  mix  it  with  the  currants,  which  should 
be  stoned,  the  flour,  the  bread  crumbs  and  treacle ;  moisten  with  the 
milk,  beat  'up  the  ingredients  until  all  are  thoroughly  mixed,  put 
them  into  a  buttered  basin  and  boil  the  pudding  31-2  hours.  Al- 
ways seasonable. 

PUMPKIN  PUDDING. — Take  i  1-2  pints  milk  and  i  tablespoonful 
bolted  corn  meal  and  1-2  spoonful  flour,  i  cup  boiled  pumpkin  ;  mix 
with  a  little  of  the  milk  and  pour  the  rest  of  the  milk  boiling  hot 
over  the  mixture,  stirring  all  the  time,  add  a  little  salt,  sweeten  to 
taste,  and  when  cool  add  2  eggs  well  beaten ;  have  ready  a  buttered 
dish,  pour  the  whole  into  it  and  bake  40  minutes.  It  should  be  out 
of  the  oven  15  minutes  before  serving. 

AMBER  PUDDING. — Put  i  Ib.  butter  into  a  sauce-pan  with  3-4  Ib. 
loaf  sugar  finely  powdered ;  melt  the  butter  and  mix  it  well  with  it, 
then  add  the  yolks  of  15  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  as  much  fresh  can- 
died orange  as  will  add  color  and  flavor  to  it,  being  first  beaten  to  a 
fine  paste.  Line  the  dish  with  paste  for  turning  out,  as  you  would 
a  pie,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  It  it  is  as  good  cold  as  hot. 

AUNT  MARY'S  LIGHT  PUDDING. — Melt  3  spoonfuls  butter  in  a  pint 
of  cream  and  let  it  stand  until  nearly  cold ;  then  mix  2  spoonfuls 
fine  flour  and  2  of  whiie  sugar,  4  yolks  and  2  whites  of  eggs  and 
add  a  little  orange  flower  water.  Bake  1-2  hour  in  little  buttered 
cups.  They  should  be  served  the  moment  they  are  done,  and  only 
when  going  to  be  eaten,  or  they  will  not  be  light.  Turn  out  of  the 
cups  and  serve  with  white  wine  and  sugar. 

ROSA'S  PUDDING.  -Beat  almonds  very  fine  that  have  been  scalded 
and  peeled,  and  add  2  spoonfuls  rose  water  or  cream,  strain  the 
whole  through  a  hair  sieve,  boil  it  and  set  it  by  to  cool,  then  thicken 
it  with  beaten  eggs,  sweeten  it  with  lump  sugar  dissolved  in  rose 
water,  tie  it  up  in  different  bags,  boil  1-2  hour  in  a  small  saucepan, 
and  melt  butter  with  rose  water  and  sugar  for  the  sauce.  These  cu- 
rious puddings  may  be  colored  with  spinach  juice,  saffron,  beets  or 
other  articles. 

CHESTNUT  PUDDING,  NESSELRODE  FASHION.— Scald  4  dozen  large 
chestnut  or  8  dozen  small  ones  in  boiling  water,  remove  the  hulls 
and  brown  skins,  lay  them  on  a  coarse  sieve  to  dry,  then  take  them 
when  cold  and  pound  them  well  in  a  mortar  with  a  pound  of  white 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  27T 

sugar,  f-2  stick  of  vanilla,  then  sift  the  whole  through  a  fine  wire 
sieve  and  put  the  mixture  into  a  bowl  with  12  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten  and  stir  the  whole  together,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  ;  then  in 
another  stewpan  have  ready  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  pour  this  over 
the  ingredients,  mixing  well ;  set  it  on  a  sharp  fire  and  stir  it  well 
till  it  begins  to  thicken  and  adheres  to  the  back  of  the  spoon,  then 
lay  a  tammy  cloth  upon  a  large  dish  and  put  the  mixture  in  and  rub 
it  through  with  two  wooden  spoons.  When  cold  place  it  in  a  freez- 
ing-pot and  freeze  in  an  ice-pail  surrounded  with  ice  and  salt,  the 
pot  being  in  the  center,  as  ice  creams  and  other  mixtures.  When 
frozen  have  a  large,  high  ice  mould,  which  closes  hermetically.  Have 
also  2  oz.  currants  and  2  oz.  Smyrna  raisins  soaked  in  4  glasses  of 
Marasquino  from  the  previous  day,  with  4  oz.  candied  citron  chop- 
ped coarsely  or  in  pellets,  put  them  into  the  freezing-pot  with  a  pint 
of  whipped  cream  and  half  the  meringue  preparation  for  meringue 
a  la  cuillie  (which  see),  freeze  the  whole  well  together  and  fill  your 
mould,  which  bury  in  ice  and  salt  until  ready  to  serve,  then  dip  the 
pot  into  lukewarm  water  and  strike  gently,  taking  the  mould  in  your 
right  hand,  place  your  left  on,  turn  it  over  and  let  it  gradually  slip 
into  the  dish. 

CHESTNUT  PUDDING. — Boil  i  pint  of  chestnuts  in  water  for  15 
minutes,  then  peel  them,  beat  these  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  orange 
flower  water  and  white  wine  till  they  make  a  fine  paste.  Beat  and 
mix  12  eggs  and  1-2  the  whites,  grate  1-2  a  nutmeg,  add  a  little  sail 
with  3  pints  of  cream,  1-2  Ib.  melted  butter,  sweeten  to  your  taste, 
put  it  over  the  fire  and  keep  stirring  till  it  is  thick ;  lay  puff-paste 
over  your  dish,  put  in  your  pudding  and  bake  it. 

PEA  PUDDING. — Boil  i  quart  of  split  peas  in  a  cloth  till  tender, 
mash  and  rub  them  through  a  sieve ;  add  3  whole  eggs,  i  cup  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth  and  let  it  boil  thirty 
minutes  again,  then  turn  it  out ;  or  it  will  do  very  well  with  the  eggs. 
Be  sure  the  liquor  fat  boils  when  you  first  put  in  the  pudding.  This 
is  the  great  secret  of  having  peas  floury,  whether  in  pudding  or  soup. 
By  no  means  soak  the  peas  previous  to  boiling,  which  is  a  long-es- 
tablished, and  very  common  practice.  Any  person  who  will  impar- 
tially try  both  ways  will  be  convinced  of  the  truth  of  these  observa- 
tions. 

CARROT  PUDDING. — Grate  1-2  Ib.  of  the  best  part  of  a  raw  carrot 
and  double  the  quantity  of  bread  ;  mix  8  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and 
4  whites  of  the  eggs  together,  with  1-2  pint  of  new  milk,  and  melt 
1-2  Ib.  fresh  butter  with  1-2  Ib.  white  wine,  3  spoonfuls  of  orange 
flower  water,  a  grated  nutmeg  and  sugar ;  stir  the  whole,  if  too 
thick,  and  add  new  milk  ;  lay  a  puff-paste  over  the  dish  and  bake  i 
hour.  Serve  it  with  grated  sugar.  This  pudding  will  become  more 


27 2  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

delicious  by  substituting  Naples  biscuit  and  cream  for  the  bread  and 
milk,  and  adding  a  glass  of  ratafia  to  the  orange  flower  water.  Some 
boil  the  carrots,  and  thereby  the  saccharine  virtue  is  lost. 

HERB  PUDDWG. — Scald,  wash  and  shred  very  fine  a  handfull  of 
spinach,  beets,  parsley  and  leeks,  or  as  many  as  you  may  like.  Have 
ready  i  quart  groats  or  barley  steeped  1-2  hour  in  warm  water,  i  Ib. 
of  pork  fat  cut  into  small  pieces,  2  or  3  large  onions  chopped  small, 
3  sage  leaves  well  picked ;  put  in  a  little  salt ;  mix  all  well  together 
and  tie  up  close.  Boil  i  hour,  and  the  bag  must  be  loosened  while 
boiling  to  give  the  pudding  room  to  swell. 

SPINACH  PUDDING. — Pick  and  clean  i  gallon  spinach,  put  into  it 
a  little  salt;  cover  it  close,  and  when  it  has  boiled  tender  throw  it  into 
a  sieve  to  drain,  then  chop  it  up  with  a  knife,  beat  up  6  eggs  mixed 
well  with  1-2  pint  of  cream,  a  stale  roll  grated  fine,  a  little  nutmeg 
and  i  cup  melted  butter ,  stir  the  whole  and  put  it  into  the  sauce- 
pan the  spinach  was  boiled  in  ;  keep  on  stirring  till  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  wet  and  flour  a  cloth,  tie  up  the  pudding  and  boil  it  an 
hour.  When  done  turn  it  out  on  a  dish. 

BREAD  AND  MARROW  PUDDINGS. — After  the  skins  are  thoroughly 
cleaned,  soak  them  all  night  in  water,  then  halt-fill  them  with  a  mix- 
ture of  1-2  Ib.  blanched  almonds  chopped  into  7  or  8  pieces,  i  Ib. 
giated  bread,  2  Ibs.  marrow  or  suet,  i  Ib.  currants,  some  pounded 
cinnamon  and  cloves,  mace  and  nutmegs,  i  quart  of  cream,  the 
yolks  of  6  eggs  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  a  little  orange  flower  wa- 
ter, some  loaf  sugar,  lemon  peel  and  citron  sliced.  Boil  them  in 
milk  and  water,  and  take  care  to  preserve  them  from  bursting  by 
pricking  them  with  a  fork. 

MARROW  AND  ALMOND  PUDDING. — Chop  i  Ib.  beef  marrow  and 
1-2  Ib.  of  sweet  almonds  blanched;  beat  them  fine  with  orange 
flower  or  rose  water;  take  1-2  Ib  grated  bread,  the  same  quantity  of 
currant  .  1-4  Ib.  fine  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  (even)  each  of  mace,  nut- 
meg and  cinnamon,  and  1-2  pint  wine;  mix  these  with  1-2  pint  of 
cream  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  half-fill  the  skins,  tie  them  up  and 
boil  them  1-4  hour. 

BEEF  MARROW  AND  SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. — Take  an  equal 
portion  of  Beef  marrow  and  sweet  potatoes  that  have  been  boiled 
and  nicely  peeled  and  mashed  and  the  strings  removed  by  straining 
through  a  coarse  hair  sieve,  and  sugar  or  honey,  6  well-beaten  eggs, 
i  teaspoonful  pounded  nutmeg  or  alspice  ;  beat  the  whole  thoroughly, 
bake  in  a  deep  earthen  dish,  serve  and  eat  hot.  If  wished,  1-2  cup 
of  wheat  or  rice  flour  or  boiled  rice  may  be  added  and  beaten  with 
the  other  ingredients.  Let  it  be  tried  and  it  will  be  found  to  be  the 
best  of  puddings. 

PERSIMMON  PUDDING. — Bread  crumbs,  4  02. ;  beef  suet,  chopped 


SWEET  PUDDINGS.  273  ' 

fine,  a  large  spoonful ;  i  small  spoonful  butter,  3  eggs,  6  oz.  white 
sugar,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  large  pinch  each  of  cinnamon  and 
cloves  and  nutmeg,  all  in  powder;  work  the  persimmons  to  a  cream, 
theu  squeeze  them  through  a  coarse  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds  and 
skins ;  then  add  all  the  ingredients  together  with  the  well-beaten 
eggs  and  a  cupful  of  milk  or  more  and  mix  thoroughly.  Bake  or 
boil  for  4  or  5  hours  in  a  pudding  mould  well  greased  with  lard,  but- 
ter or  cotton  seed  oil.  Very  nice.  N.  B. — Dates  can  also  be  used 
in  the  place  of  the  persimmons.  Boil  for  4  or  5  hours.  Some  use 
bolted  corn  meal  instead  of  the  bread  crumbs  or  flour. 

CUSTARD  PUDDING  FOR  INVALIDS. — Boil  for  3  minutes  a  small 
piece  of  lemon  peel  and  a  piece  of  bay  leaf  in  2  cups  or  i  pint  of  milk, 
then  whisk  well  together  3  eggs  and  i  large  spoonful  of  sugar;  over 
these  pour  the  boiled  milk ;  pour  into  a  buttered  mould  and  steam  it 
for  25  minutes  in  a  pan  with  some  water,  Turn  it  on  a  plate  or  dish 
and  serve. 

PUDDING,  QUEEN'S  CUSTARD. — Procured  from  an  English  house- 
keeper.— Two  ounces  of  patent  barley,  i  ounce  of  sifted  sugar,  1-2 
ounce  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  it  boils,  then  add  the  yolks  of  2 
beaten  eggs.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pie  dish.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

CUSTARD — Mrs.  Cordova,  Jamaica,  W.  I. — One  pint  of  milk,  1-2 
pound  of  white  sugar,  4  eggs,  a  little  rose  water,  flavoring  of  other 
essence,  almonds,  or  anything  else  with  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff 
batter  worked  or  stirred  well.  To  be  baked  or  boiled. 

CURD  PUDDINGS  OR  PUFFS. — Turn  2  quarts  of  milk,  press  out 
the  whey,  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  i  cup  of  butter,  the 
crumbs  of  a  small  loaf,  1-2  cup  of  cream,  1-2  nutmeg,  a  small 
quantity  of  sugar  and  2  spoonfuls  of  California  white  wine.  But- 
ter little  cups  or  small  pastry  pans  and  fill  them.  Orange  flower 
water  is  an  improvement.  Bake  with  care.  Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. — May  be  made  in  the  same  way,  using  the 
orange  and  peel  in  the  place  of  the  lemon. 

MOLASSES  PUDDING. — One  gill  of  brandy,  1-2  pound  of  butter, 
i  pint  of  molasses,  i  pound  of  sugar,  8  eggs,  3  pints  of  flour, 
i  1-2  pint  of  new  milk,  i  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Flavor  with  nut- 
meg. 

MARROW  PUDDING. — (Mrs.  Jeanson.) — One  pound  of  marrow 
soaked  all  night  in  salt  and  water,  then  washed  in  fresh  water; 
drain  off  the  water,  squeeze  it  dry  in  a  cloth,  chop  fine  and  beat 
it  in  a  mortar  or  bowl  up  to  a  snow  or  foam.  Add  6  spoonfuls 
each  of  flour  and  sugar,  i  cup  of  milk,  4  eggs ;  flavor  to  taste  with 
lemon  or  vanilla.  Put  into  a  buttered  earthen  dish  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 


274  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

SMALL  RICE  PUDDING. — Prepare  4  ounces  of  rice  as  above  di- 
rected and  put  to  it  3  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and  1-2  pint  of  cream 
or  i  pint  of  milk  simmered  till  thick ;  when  cold  mix  in  sugar  to 
taste  and  6  well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  with  the  whites  of  3,  grated 
lemon  peel,  a  little  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Butter  small  cups  and 
fill  3  parts  full,  putting  in  each  a  few  slices  of  citron  or  orange ;  bake 
3-4  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  the  moment  before  eaten 
with  sweet  sauce  in  a  dish  or  bowl. 

PLAIN  RICE  PUDDING. — Wash  well  and  pick  some  rice;  then  put 
amongst  it  some  pimento  finely  pounded,  but  not  much ;  tie  the  rice 
in  a  cloth  and  leave  plenty  of  room  for  it  to  swell ;  boil  it  in  a  quan- 
tity of  water  for  an  hour  or  two.  When  done  eat  it  with  butter  and 
sugar  or  milk.  Grate  lemon  peel  if  you  wish.  It  is  very  good  eaten 
without  spice  and  eaten  with  salt  and  butter. 

RICE  PUDDING  WITH  FRUIT. — Swell  the  rice  in  a  very  little  milk 
over  the  fire,  then  mix  fruit  of  any  kind  with  it  (currants,  gooseber- 
ries scalded,  apples,  pared,  cored  and  quartered  ;  raisins  or  black 
currants)  ;  put  i  egg  into  the  rice  to  bind  it.  Boil  it  well  and  serve 
with  sugar.  RICE  PUDDING  should  be  boiled  1-2  hour. 

RICE  PUDDING  WITH  STEWED  APPLES. — Blanch  4  ounces  of  rice 
in  i  pint  of  milk,  3  ounces  fresh  butter,  bring  to  a  boil,  put  in  the 
blanched  rice  and  let  it,  well  covered,  steam  slowly  for  i  hour  with- 
out stirring  it.  It  will  then  be  sufficiently  swelled  soft  and  dry. 
Take  it  from  the  fire,  empty  it  into  another  vessel,  let  it  cool  and 
stir  in  2  ounces  of  pulverized  sugar,  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  the 
grated  peel  of  i  lemon,  then  mix  in  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  finish  the  pudding.  Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

CURRANT  AND  MARROW  PUDDING. — With  5  pints  of  milk  boil  i 
lemon  peel  and  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  strain  it ;  add  8  oz. 
of  chopped  marrow,  4  ounces  of  currants,  4  ounces  citron  sliced, 
1-2  nutmeg  grated,  i  glass  of  brandy  and  12  sponge  biscuits.  When 
the  mixture  is  cold  add  8  yolks  of  eggs  and  3  whites  of  eggs.  Bake 
in  a  dish  lined  with  tart  paste.  A  few  almonds  or  a  little  candied 
citron  or  orange  peel  may  be  put  to  this  pudding  for  variety.  A 
little  finely  sifted  sugar  may  be  strewed  over  the  top,  or  a  few  blanch- 
ed almonds  may  be  stuck  around  it  in  a  flat  dish.  Twenty  minutes 
will  bake  it.  In  a  deep  dish  it  will  require  30  minutes,  or  it  may  be 
boiled  in  a  pudding  shape.  This  pudding  will  keep,  and  cut  in  firm 
slices,  which  may  be  broiled  or  heated  in  an  oven. 

BIRD'S  NEST  PUDDING. — Take  a  dozen  sound  and  round  apples, 
wash  and  take  out  the  cores,  but  do  not  open  them  all  the  way 
through ;  put  some  rich  cream  into  the  bottom  of  a  dish  and  lay 
them  in  it ;  fill  the  holes  in  the  apples  with  sugar,  grated  orange  peel 
or  mace  or  nutmeg,  or  the  raspings  of  a  lemon  peel  ;  pour  over 
them  nice,  rich  custard  or  butter,  and  bake  i  hour. 


SWEET  CAKES.  27$ 


SWEET  CAKES. 

CREAM  CAKE. — One  cup  of  sugar,  i  1-2  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  of  cold  water  and  i  teaspoon  of  yeast  powder.  Cream 
for  the  same,  i  pint  of  milk,  2  large  spoons  of  corn  starch  and  i  of 
sugar.  Flavor  with  extract  of  vanilla. 

GOLDEN  GATE  CAKES. — Rub  1-2  Ib.  of  butter,  i  Ib.  of  pounded 
loaf  sugar,  i  oz.  caraway  seeds,  4  spoonfuls  each  of  brandy  and 
sack,  into  i  Ib.  of  the  finest  flour,  with  enough  rose  water  to  form  a 
paste ;  then  make  it  up  into  little  thin  cakes ;  wash  them  over  with 
rose  water,  scrape  off  some  loaf  sugar  and  bake  on  a  tin  or  buttered 
paper. 

FRUIT  WASHINGTON  CAKE. — One  Ib.  of  butter,  i  Ib.  of  sugar,  i 
Ib.  of  flour,  8  or  loeggs,  3  Ibs.  of  currants,  4  Ibs.  of  raisins,  i  Ib.  of 
citron,  i  teacup  molasses,  i  gill  brandy,  i  oz.  cinnamon,  i  oz.  mare 
or  nutmeg,  i  oz.  cloves  and  i  dessert  spoonful  soda  put  in  to  dry. 
Bake  from  3  to  4  hours. 

SPONGE  CAKE. — Ten  eggs,  i  pint  of  sugar,  i  pint  of  flour,  beat 
the  eggs  and  the  sugar  together  until  very  light.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  all  gently  together.  Bake  in  a  deep 
tin  pan  or  cake  mould  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

EXCELLENT  SPONGE  CAKE. — Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  of 
12  eggs,  beat  them  separately  for  1-2  to  3-4  of  an  hour,  by  which 
time  the  whites  will  become  a  strong  froth.  Have  ready  11-4  Ibs. 
of  fine  loaf  sugar  and  3-4  of  a  Ib.  of  fine  flour  both  sifted ;  mix  all 
together,  but  do  not  beat  the  cake  any  more.  Well  butter  the  tins, 
half-fill  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  i  hour. 

TRI-COLOR  CAKE. — One  coffee  cup  white  sugar,  i  tablespoonful 
butter,  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  2-3  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  i  cup  flour, 
and  i  1-2  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder.  Make  another  cake  the  same 
with  the  yolks,  and  another  with  red  candy  instead  of  sugar.  Bake 
in  bars.  Put  in  first  the  pink  cake,  then  the  white  and  then  the 
yellow. 

VARIEGATED  MARBLE  CAKE. — Make  the  cake  as  directed  above ; 
take  the  juice  of  spinach,  mix  it  with  some  of  the  white  portion  of 
the  cake,  a  little  cochineal  and  a  little  tameric  with  the  juice  of  the 
spinach  and  mix  all  with  some  of  the  light  portion  of  the  cake.  Pour 
it  in  both  light  and  dark  layers  in  little  veins  across  and  every  way. 
The  spinach  juice  will  form  a  delicate  green,  and  mixed  with  the 
tameric  another  shade  of  green,  and  the  cochineal  a  beautiful  car- 
mine color,  and  a  yellow  may  also  be  added  by  treating  the  well 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  in  the  same  way.  The  slices  will.be  beautiful. 

ROYAL  FRUIT  CAKE. — Take  i  quart  of  flour,  6  eggs,  and    i  pint 


SWEET  CAKES. 

of  moist  sugar ;  i  pint  of  molasses,  i  Ib.  of  butter,  i  teaspoonful 
of  saleratus,  1-2  pint  sweet  milk,  2  Ibs.  of  Santona  or  seedless 
raisins,  3  Ibs.  Zante  currants,  i  1-2  Ibs.  citron,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
ground  cloves,  i  grated  nutmeg,  and  i  teaspoonful  ground  ginger ; 
beat  the  eggs,  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add  the  molasses,  sift 
in  the  flour  and  with  it  the  saleratus  ;  add  the  milk,  beat  to  a  batter ; 
cut  the  citron  in  thin  strips,  then  add  your  fruit  and  spices  to  the 
mixture,  stir  well,  and  have  your  pans  ready,  lined  well  with  buttered 
paper.  Put  in  the  mixture  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

FRUIT  CAKE — (Mrs.  Kendall's). — i  1-2  cups  of  butter,  i  cup  of 
sugar,  i  cup  of  molasses,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups  flour,  i  1-2 
teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar,  i  teaspoon  soda  mixed  with  the  flour, 
i  nutmeg,  4  eggs,  2  Ibs.  raisins,  i  gill  of  wine,  citron  and  cur- 
rants. Mix  thoroughly  and  bake. 

MRS.  ADAMS'  WEDDING  CAKE. — Onelb.  brown  sugar,  i  of  butter, 

1  of  flour,  12  eggs,  i  cup    of   molasses,  6   Ibs.    Valentia    raisins, 
3  Ibs.  currants,  2  Ibs.  citron,   i  oz.   cinnamon,    i   oz.  mace,  i   oz 
cloves,  2  gills  of  brandy,  the   juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons, 

2  nutmegs  and  sufficient  flour  to  dust  the  fruit. 

MRS.  CHILSEY'S  WEDDING  CAKE — (Four  loaves). — 2  1-2  Ibs.  of 
flour,  i  3-4  Ibs.  loaf  sugar,  i  1-2  Ibs.  butter,  4  eggs,  4  nutmegs, 
i  cup  domestic  yeast,  i  Ib.  seeded  and  clipped  raisins,  1-2  Ib. 
citron,  and  new,  rich  milk  to  make  it  stiff.  All  the  flour,  half  the 
sugar  and  butter  mixed  over  night  with  the  yeast  to  raise  it ;  mix  to- 
gether until  white ;  the  remainder  of  the  sugar  and  butter,  let  it 
stand  ready-mixed  to  add  next  morning,  when  the  fruit  is  thoroughly 
light.  Bake  slowly  in  a  hot  oven  until  done.  Try  with  a  knife. 

FROSTING  FOR  THE  CAKE. — To  the  white  of  i  egg  add  9  heap- 
ing spoonfuls  of  double  refined  flour  and  i  teaspoonful  of  Kings- 
ford's  best  corn  starch  pounded  and  sifted  with  the  sugar,  through  a 
very  fine  sieve ;  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  so  that  the  flake  can  be 
turned  over  without  the  eggs  slipping  from  it ;  stir  in  gradually  with 
a  wooden  spoon  ;  afterwards  stir  for  15  minutes,  then  add  a  table- 
spoonful  lemon  juice.  The  whites  of  i  1-2  eggs  is  allowed  to  a 
loaf. 

WEDDING  CAKE — 4  Ibs.  each  of  well-dried,  fine  and  sifted  flour 
and  fresh  butter,  2  Ibs.  sugar,  4  oz.  each  of  mace  beaten  fine  and 
sifted,  and  nutmegs ;  allow  3  eggs  to  every  Ib.  of  flour.  Wash, 
pick  and  well-dry  4  Ibs.  of  currants  before  the  fire,  blanch  and 
cut  lengthwise  very  thin  i  Ib.  of  sweet  almonds,  i  Ib.  each  of 
citron,  candied  lemon  and  orange,  and  i  gill  of  brandy.  Make 
these  ready ;  work  your  butter  to  a  nice  cream  with  your  hands, 
then  beat  in  your  sugar  for  15  minutes,  whisk  the  white  of  eggs  to  a 
solid  frolh^  and  mix  them  with  your  sugar  and  butter,  beat  the  yolks 


SWEET  CAKES.  277 

until  perfectly  smooth,  and  mix  them  with  the  sugar  and  butter. 
Then  add  your  flour,  mace  and  nutmeg,  beating  until  your  oven  is 
ready  ;  pour  in  the  brandy,  and  lightly  beat  in  your  currants  and  al- 
monds. Tie  three  sheets  of  paper  around  the  bottom  of  your  hoop 
to  keep  it  from  running  out;  rub  it  well  with  butter  and  pour  in  your 
batter  with  the  sweetmeats  in  layers,  then  of  batter,  then  of  sweet- 
meats, and  thus  continue  until  you  have  used  it  all,  and  after  it  has 
risen  cover  it  over  with  white  paper  before  your  oven  is  closed. 
Bake  slowly  for  3  hours. 

.  JELLY  CAKE. — Three  eggs,  i  cup  of  sugar,  2-3  of  a  cup  of  milk, 
2  cups  flour,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  butternut,  2  even 
teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  and  i  even  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
This  makes  an  excellent  jelly  cake,  and  does  not  break  when  taken 
from  the  pans. 

CUSTARD  CAKE. — One  cup  sugar,  1-2  cup  sweet  milk,  i  egg,  3 
cups  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar  and  i  teaspoonful  of  soda 
(or  3  of  baking  powder).  Bake  in  thin  layers,  like  jelly  cake;  then 
prepare  a  custard,  boiling  i  pint,  i  beaten  egg,  i  spoonful  flour,  i 
teaspoonful  corn  starch,  and  1-2  cup  of  sugar  together.  When  cold 
flavor  with  lemon  or  any  extract  to  taste.  Spread  the  mixture  be- 
tween the  layers  of  the  cake. 

JELLY  ROLLS. — i  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1-2  cup  of  butter,  3 
eggs  well  beaten,  1-2  teaspoonful  soda,  t  of  cream  of  tartar,  1-2  cup 
sweet  milk  ;  dissolve  the  soda  and  tartar  in  1-2  Cup  sweet  milk;  i 
cup  flour.  Bake  in  long  tins  ;  spread  each  cake  with  jelly  and  roil 
hot.  Use  powdered  sugar  only  for  jelly  rolls.  This  recipe  will  do 
for  jelly  cake.  Bake  in  round  tins  and  spread  jelly  between. 

JELLY  CAKE — (Mrs.  Robinson). — Qne  cup  each  of  flour  and  su- 
gar, 3  eggs  beaten  separately,  3  tablespoonfuls  cold  water,  i  tea- 
spoonful  yeast  powder  ;  add  the  beaten  whites  last.  Grease  a  clean 
paper  and  put  into  a  pan  14  inches  by  12,  or  2  smaller  pans,  pour  in 
the  batter  and  bake  20  minutes;  then, "while  warm,  spread  on  the 
jelly,  roll  up  and  sift  sugar  over  it.  Or,  when  you  bake  your  bis- 
cuits for  breakfast,  the  stove  will  be  hot  enough  to  bake  it.  The 
sponge  should  be  one  inch  thick  ;  or  the  sponge  may  be  baked  in 
gem  pans  as  sponge  cake. 

WHITE  CAKE. — Two  coffee  cups  of  white  sugar,  i  coffee  cup  of 
butter,  ar.d  i  cup  sweet  milk;  whisk  7  eggs,  2  coffee  cupfuls  flour,  i 
coffee  cupful  corn  starch,  i  teaspoonful  soda,  2  of  cream  of  tartar 
(or  3  spoonfuls  of  soda);  flavor  with  lemon  or  almond;  beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  the  butter  and  sugar  to  the  cream 
before  adding  the  milk  and  eggs.  Put  the  corn  starch  in  last. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. — Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  i 
cup  sweet  milk  (which  may  be  cream  if  richness  be  desired),  i-a 


2^8  SWEET  CAKES. 

cup  butter,  2  cups  white  sugar,  21-2  heaping  cups  of  flour,  i  tea- 
spoonful  soda  and  2  of  cream  of  tartar,  or  3  spoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der. This,  if  baked  in  common  jelly  cake  tins,  will  make  6  layers. 
Flour  between  the  layers.  For  icing  this  cake,  take  the  whites  of  4 
eggs,  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  for  every  egg  use  7  even  tablespoonfuls  of 
pulverized  or  crushed  sugar,  stirring  just  enough  to  mix ;  spread  it 
on  the  layers  and  sprinkle  prepared  or  grated  cocoanut  over  it.  Ice 
the  tops  and  sides. 

ALMOND  CAKE. — Take  10  oz.  bitter  almonds  and  6  oz.  sweet  al- 
monds, scald  in  boiling  water  for  3  minutes,  cool,  peel  and  wash 
them,  drain  and  wipe  them  dry  in  a  cloth.  Put  them  in  a  mortar 
and  pound  them  to  a  paste  with  an  egg  added  in  small  quantities  to 
prevent  the  almonds  from  turning  oily ;  when  well  pounded,  add  6 
oz.  pounded  sugar,  6  oz.  butler,  i  small  pinch  of  salt,  i  tablespoon- 
ful  orange  flower  water.  Pound  all  well  together,  adding  3  eggs 
broken,  one  after  the  other ;  when  well  mixed,  put  the  pounded  al- 
monds in  a  basin.  Put  i  Ib.  of  sifted  flour  on  the  paste-board,  make 
a  puff  paste,  as  for  puff-paste  cake  and  give  the  paste  five  turns; 
cut  it  into  two  pieces,  make  a  ball  of  each  piece,  roll  each  flat  with 
arollingpin  to  the  thickness  of  1-2  an  inch,  and  put  one  on  a  baking 
sheet.  Spread  the  almond  paste  on  it,  leaving  a  margin  of  one  inch 
and  a  half  all  round ;  wet  the  edge  of  the  paste  and  lay  the  other 
over  it  and  press  with  the  thumb  ail  around,  to  stick  the  two  together  ; 
trim  off  the  superfluous  paste ;  egg  the  top  and  cut  the  pattern  with 
a  knife  as  for  short  paste  cake.  Bake  for  50  minutes,  let  the  cake 
cool,  then  sprinkle  some  sifted  sugar  on  it,  and  serve. 

LEMON  CAKE. — Ten  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  orange  flower  wa- 
ter, 3-4  pound  of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  i  lemon,  3-4  Ib.  of  flour ; 
separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  the  orange  flower  water,  the  sugar,  grated  lemon  rind,  and 
mix  these  ingredients  well  together.  Then  beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  add  them  with  the  lemon  juice  to  the  whites,  &c. ;  dredge 
in  the  flour  gradually,  keep  beating  the  mixture  well,  put  it  into  a 
buttered  mould  and  bake  the  cake  about  an  hour,  or  rather  longer. 
The  addition  of  a  little  after  beaten  to  a  cream  would  improve  the 
cake,  which  is  never  out  of  season. 

PLUM  CAKE. — Take  i  gallon  flour,  1-2  pint  of  rose  water,  i  pint 
of  cream,  i  pint  of  ale  yeast;  boil  it,  then  6  yolks  of  eggs,  i  1-2 
pound  of  butter,  i  pound  of  sugar,  4  pounds  of  currants,  i  nutmeg 
and  a  little  salt ;  work  it  very  well  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  by  the 
fire,  then  work  it  again,  and  make  it  up  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  and 
a  half  in  the  oven.  Take  care  that  the  oven  be  not  too  hot. 

APPLE  CAKE. — Ten  or  12  apples,  sugar  to  taste,  the  rind  of  i 
small  lemon,  3  eggs,  1-4  pint  of  cream,  1-4  Ib.  of  butter,  3-4  Ib. 


SWEET  CAKES.  279 

of  good  short  pie  crust,  3  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  pare  and  core 
and  cut  the  apples  into  small  pieces,  put  sufficient  moisture  to 
sweeten  them  into  a  basin,  add  the  lemon  peel,  which  should  be 
finely  minced,  and  the  cream ;  stir  these  ingredients  well,  whisk 
the  eggs  and  melt  the  butter,  mix  together,  add  the  sliced  apples, 
and  let  them  be  stirred  into  the  mixture.  Scald,  peel  and  wash 
the  almonds,  cut  them  into  long  shreds  and  throw  over  the  top  of 
the  apples  and  bake  them  from  1-2  103-4  hour,  taking  care  that  the 
almonds  do  not  get  burnt;  when  done  strew  some  sifted  sugar  over 
the  top  and  serve. 

HONEY  CAKE. — One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  2  cupfuls  of  flour,  i 
cupful  of  sour  cream  (rich),  1-2  teaspoonful  carbonate  of  soda  and 
honey  to  taste;  mix  the  cream  and  honey  together,  dredge  in  the 
flour,  with  as  much  honey  as  will  flavor  the  mixture  nicely,  stir  it 
in  well  that  all  the  ingredients  be  thoroughly  mixed,  add  the  soda 
and  beat  the  cake  well  for  another  5  minutes,  put  it  into  a  buttered 
tin,  bake  it  from  1-2  to  3-4  hour  and  let  it  be  eaten  warm. 

PLUM  POUND  CAKE. — Take  of  dried  and  sifted  flour,  sifted  loaf 
sugar,  fresh  butter,  cleaned  and  dried  currants,  i  Ib.  each,  12  eggs; 
then  whisk  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  separately,  while  another 
with  the  hand  beats  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  as  the  froth  rises 
upon  the  eggs  add  it  to  the  butter,  and  continue  so  doing  until  it  is 
all  beaten  in ;  mix  the  flour  and  sugar  together  and  add  them  by 
degrees ;  the  last  thing  mix  in  the  currants,  together  with  a  wine- 
glassful  of  rose  water  and  a  powdered  nutmeg.  It  will  require  to  be 
beaten  during  a  whole  hour ;  bake  it  in  a  buttered  tin. 

A  PLAIN  POUND  CAKE. — Work  i  Ib.  of  fresh  butter  to  a  cold 
cream  and  put  it  to  8  eggs  well  beaten  together ;  beat  all  together 
till  well  mixed  and  light,  and  put  to  them  a  little  sliced  lemon  peel, 
a  few  blanched  almonds  chopped,  sugar  and  1-4  Ib.  dried  and  sifted 
flour,  bake  in  a  pan  for  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven  or  stove  ;  2  small 
cakes  may  be  made  of  the  same  ingredients.  The  addition  of  1-2 
Ib.  of  currants,  a  few  raisins  and  1-2  Ib.  of  candied  lemon  and  or- 
ange peel  with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste  will  make  this  a 
good  plum  cake  of  moderate  richness,  or  it  may  be  converted 
into  a  fine  seed  cake  by  adding  caraway  and  coriander  seeds  to 
the  plum  cake. 

CUP  CAKE. — Five  eggs,  2  large  teacupfuls  molasses,  2  each  of 
brown  sugar  and  butter,  i  cup  rich  milk,  5  cups  sifted  flour,  1-2  tea- 
cupful  cloves  and  allspice,  1-2  teacupful  of  ground  ginger,  and  i 
teaspoonful  soda ;  cut  up  the  butter  in  the  milk  and  warm  them 
slightly  ;  warm  also  the  molasses  and  stir  it  into  the  milk  and  butter, 
then  in  the  sugar,  and  set  it  away  to  cool ;  beat  the  eggs  very  light 
and  then  beat  them  into  the  mixture,  adding  the  flour,  spices, 


28O  ICING  AND  FROSTING. 

&c.,  and  stir  the  whole  very  hard ;  butter  small  tins  and  nearly 
fill  them  with  the  mixture  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

QUEEN  CAKE. — One-half  Ib.  of  flour,  1-2  Ib.  of  pounded  loaf 
sugar,  3  eggs,  i  teacupful  of  cream,  1-2  Ib.  of  currants,  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  essence  of  lemon  or  almond  to  taste. 
Work  the  butter  to  a  cream,  dredge  in  the  flour,  add  sugar  and  cur- 
rants, mix  the  ingredients  well  together ;  beat  the  eggs,  mix  them 
with  the  cream  and  flavoring  and  ftir  them  to  the  flour,  add  the  car- 
bonate of  soda,  beat  the  paste  well  for  10  minutes,  put  it  into  small 
buttered  pans  and  bake  the  cake  from  1510  30  minutes.  Grated 
lemon  rind  may  be  substituted  for  the  lemon  and  almond  flavoring, 
which  will  make  the  cakes  equally  nice. 

SMALL  SPONGE  CAKES. — The  weight  of  8  eggs  in  pounded  sugar, 
of  5  eggs  in  flour,  flavoring  to  taste ;  let  the  sugar  be  well  pounded 
and  sifted  and  the  flour  perfectly  dry  ;  separate  the  whites  from  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  beat  the  butter  with  the  sugar,  then  beat  the 
whites  until  they  become  rather  stiff,  and  mix  them  with  the  yolks, 
but  do  not  stir  them  more  than  is  just  necessary  to  mingle  the  in- 
gredients well  together.  Dredge  the  flour  in  by  degrees,  add  the  fla- 
voring, butter  the  tins  well,  pour  in  the  butter,  sift  a  little  sugar  over 
the  cakes  and  bake  them  in  rather  a  quick  oven,  but  do  not  allow 
them  to  become  too  brown,  as  they  should  be  rather  pale.  Remove 
them  from  the  tins  before  they  get  cold,  then  store  them  away  in  a 
closed  tin  canister  or  wide-mouthed  glass  bottle  ;  bake  from  10  to  15 
.minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

ICING  AND  FROSTING. 

BOILED  ICING  FOR  CAKES. — Take  the  best  refined  loaf  sugar 
break  it  into  small  lumps,  and  pour  over  it  some  cold  water,  taking 
care  to  use  no  more  than  will  be  sufficient  to  dissolve  it.  Mash  the 
lumps  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  put  over  the  fire  to  boil  without 
skimming,  until  the  syrup  is  of  the  consistence  of  honey.  In  the 
meantime  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  allowing  this  num- 
ber of  eggs  to  every  pound  of  sugar.  Strain  the  boiled  syrup  in 
water,  immediately  upon  removing  it  from  the  fire,  and  in  a  few  min- 
utes stir  in  gradually  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  some  lemon  juice 
or  essence  ;  beat  it  until  very  smooth  and  light,  and  put  in  a  few  drops 
of  indigo,  squeezed  through  a  muslin  bag  to  make  it  a  pearly  white. 
If  the  icing  is  too  thin,  set  the  bowl  in  an  oven  of  boiling  water  over 
a  few  bright  coals  or  stove,  and  stir  it  while  it  boils,  not  letting  it 
stick  to  the  sides  of  the  bowl ;  or  you  may  omit  a  portion  of  the 
whites  of  eggs.  If  too  thick  from  standing,  add  some  beaten  white 
of  the  eggs,  a  small  portion  at  a  time,  until  of  the  proper  consistency. 
Put  on  the  icing  while  it  is  warm. 


ICING  AND  FROSTING.  28 1 

FROSTED  RICE. — Boil  a  cupful  office  in  milk  till  tender,  salt  and 
flavor  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  to  this,  in  a  deep  dish ; 
then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a  little  sugar 
and  lemon,  and  spread  over  the  rice,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Serve 
cold. 

DESIGNS  FOR  FROSTED  EGO  AND  WHITE  SUGAR. — Make  a  coronet 
or  funnel  of  white  paper,  with  a  pipe  or  tube  at  the  end  of  it,  either 
of  glass,  tin,  a  quill  or  a  piece  of  reed,  pasted  in  the  small  end,  then 
fill  the  funnel  with  a  mixture  of  white  of  egg  and  sugar,  beaten  well 
to  a  paste,  then  tie  up  the  top  of  the  funnel,  or  close  it  with  your 
hand,  then  mark  or  not  your  design  of  leaves,  flowers,  etc.,  and 
squeeze  the  egg  over  them,  and  by  this  way  you  can  make  any  mark, 
either  with  frosted  egg,  jelly,  or  anything.  You  can  go  over  it  several 
times,  to  make  the  design  richer.  By  coloring  the  white  frosting  with 
a  little  of  the  juice  of  spinach,  you  can  have  green  leaves;  with  a  lit- 
tle saffron  or  carmine,  you  can  have  flowers  and  roses,  both  yellow 
and  red,  of  any  color  or  tint. 

ICED  A"PPLE. — This  may  be  served  as  an  entrement,  with  boiled 
barley,  or  as  a  dessert  dish.  Peel  and  core  without  dividing,  a  dozen 
apples,  steam  very  gently  in  a  lined  sauce-pan,  or  pipkin,  with  1-2 
pound  of  sugar,  and  1-2  a  pint  of  water ;  when  tender,  lift  very  care- 
fully on  the  dish,  have  ready  2  dozen  apples,  pared,  cored  and  cut  in 
thin  slices  ;  then  put  them  into  the  same  syrup  from  which  the  other 
apples  have  been  taken,  and  add  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  chipped 
very  fine,  and  the  juice  of  a  whole  lemon  ;  boil  gently,  till  reduced  to 
a  stiff  marmalade,  stirring  to  prevent  from  burning.  .  Cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  pretty  dessert  dish  with  some  of  the  marmalade,  and  place 
over  that  a  layer  of  stewed  apples,  in  the  inside  or  which,  and  be- 
tween each,  place  a  layer  of  marmalade;  then  place  another  layer  cf 
apples,  and  fill  up  the  cavities  as  before,  forming  the  whole  into  a 
raised  oval  shape  ;  then  whisk  to  a  froth  the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  white  sugar,  and  cover  the  apples  with 
the  icing.  Blanch  and  cut  into  narrow  strips,  two  or  three  dozen 
sweet  almonds  and  stick' them  up  in  the  icing;  strew  over  a  little 
granulated  sugar  and  serve  cold.  It  may  be  served  as  a  most  ex- 
cellent supper  dish. 

ROYAL  ICING  FOR  CAKES.  (Mrs.  S.) — Pound  well  in  a  mortar,  the 
best  white  sugar,  and  sift  through  a  silk  sieve,  put  it  into  a  bowl  with 
the  whites  of  3  or  4  eggs,  whisked  to  a  solid  froth,  to  which  the  juice 
of  1-2  a  lemon  has  been  added,  keep  whisking,  till  the  mixture  be- 
comes so  areated  (light)  that  it  hangs  in  flakes  from  a  spoon.  It  is 
then  ready  for  use.  NOTE. — If  the  mixture  is  too  stiff  to  spread,  add 
a  litte  more  white  of  egg,  if  too  soft,  add  more  sugar. 

To  ICE  A  VERY  LARGE  CAKE. — Take  and  beat  the  whites  of  20 


CUSTARDS. 

eggs,  then  gradually  beat  i  pound  of  double  refined  sugar,  sifted 
through  a  lawn  sieve;  mix  them  well  in  a  deep  wooden  pan,  add  some 
flower  water,  and  a  piece  of  fiesh  lemon  peel ;  of  the  former  enough 
to  flavor  and  no  more.  Whisk  it  for  3  hours,  till  the  mixture  is  thick 
and  white,  then,  with  a  thin,  broad  bit  of  board,  spread  it  all  over  the 
top  and  sides,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  oven,  and  an  hour  will  harden  it. 

HOT  ICING. — Add  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  just  enough  to 
dissolve  i  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  then  boil.  Beat  the  whites  of 
4  or  5  eggs  to  a  solid  froth,  add  the  hot  sugar,  stirring  quickly,  till 
smooth  ;  beat  2  minutes,  flavor  to  taste,  spread  over  the  cakes  and 
set  in  a  warm  place. 

ICING  FOR  CAKE. — Beat  and  sift  8  oz  of  fine  white  sugar,  put  it  in- 
to a  mortar  with  4  spoonfuls  of  rose  water,  with  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  and  strained;  whisk  it  well,  and  when  the  cake  is  almost  cold, 
dip  a  feather  in  the  icing  and  cover  the  cake  well ;  set  it  in  the  oven 
to  harden,  but  don't  let  it  stay  to  discolor.  Put  the  cake  in  a  dry 
place.  This  is  for  a  very  large  cake. 

CUSTARDS. 

SNOW  BALL,  OR  BOILED  CUSTARD,  (K.  D.) — Allow  8  eggs  for  a 
rich  custard  and  4  for  a  plainer,  one  to  every  quart  of  milk  ;  beat  the 
whites  and  yolks  separately,  the  whites  to  a  solid  froth,  then  dip 
them  by  spoonfuls  to  the  boiling  milk,  boil  a  moment,  then  with  a 
slice  lay  the  cooked  froth  over  a  sieve  to  drain,  then  strain  the  milk, 
sweeten  well  with  powdered  sugar  and  flavor  to  taste ;  then  beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  till  smooth  and  as  soon  as  cool  enough  stir 
constantly  to  the  milk,  that  it  may  not  curdle,  when  boiling  hot,  but 
not  to  boil,  or  it  will  become  lumpy;  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir 
till  a  little  cool,  then  turn  it  into  a  bowl  or  deep  dish,  then  put  in  the 
lumps  of  the  cooled  whites,  and  put  into  each  lump  a  piece  of  jelly. 

LEMON  CUSTARD. — Five  eggs,  yolks  beaten  with  one  large  cup  of 
sugar,  and  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons;  set  your  tin  pail,  in  which 
is  the  above  mixture,  into  a  kettle  of  hot  water  on  the  stove,  and  stir 
until  it  bubbles;  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
stir  into  the  mace,  and  dip  into  the  custard  cup  ;  this  will  make  six- 
teen custards. 

ORANGE  CUSTARDS. — Boil  till  tender  1-2  the  rind  of  an  orange, 
beat  it  fine  in  a  mortar,  put  to  it  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  the  juice  of 
an  orange,  4  ozs.  of  loaf  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs;  beat  all  well 
together  for  10  minutes,  pour  in  a  pint  of  cream  that  is  boiling,  put 
it  in  by  degrees;  keep  beating  till  cold,  then  put  them  in  cups  and 
place  them  in  an  earthen  dish  of  hot  water  till  set ;  stick  preserved 
orange  on  the  top,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 


CUSTARDS.  283 

OUR  MOTHER'S  CUSTARD. — Boil  a  bit  of  cinnamon  and  lemon 
peel,  2  bay  leaves,  or  a  sprig  of  myrtle,  with  sage,  in  i  quart  of  new 
milk;  make  a  smooth  paste  with  a  spoonful  of  rice  flour  or  corn 
starch,  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs;  stir  the 
whole  together  into  the  boiling  milk  in  a  basin,  and  then  let  it  thicken 
over  the  fire,  but  not  to  boil ;  pour  it  into  a  cold  dish,  and  stir  it  one 
way  till  cool ;  a  very  little  brandy,  ratafia  or  peach  water  may  be  put 
in  to  flavor  this  custard ;  grate  a  little  nutmeg  or  strew  a  little  ground 
cinnamon  lightly  over  the  top  of  the  cups. 

WINE  CUSTARD. — Beat  8  eggs  very  light,  leaving  out  the  whites 
of  3;  take  1-2  Ib.  of  sugar,  i  pint  of  wine,  and  beat  with  the  eggs 
for  a  few  minutes;  pour  the  wine  back  into  a  hot  kettle  and  stir  until 
it  boils,  then  pour  the  mixture  out  and  beat  until  cold.;  flavor  with 
lemon  and  grate  nutmeg  over;  serve  in  glasses;  the  wine  must  be  a 
light  color  and  the  kettle  not  very  hot.  This  quantity  will  do  for  six 
persons. 

CUSTARD  BOILED. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  to  a 
quart  of  milk;  mix  with  a  small  quantity  of  the  milk  and 
flavor  it;  beat  up  2  eggs;  heat  the  remainder  of  the  milk  to  near 
boiling,  then  add  the  mixed  starch,  the  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  white  sugar,  a  little  butter  and  salt ;  boil  2  minutes,  stir- 
ring briskly. 

BOILED  CUP  CUSTARD. — One  quart  of  milk  ;  when  boiling  add 
the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  whites  of  4,  with  6  spoons  of  sugar ;  scald  to- 
gether, then  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  until  very  light,  pour  boiling 
water  over  them  to  cook  them  and  then  serve  the  custard. 

STEAMED  CUSTAKD. — (Miss  Ha'e). — Six  eggs  well  beaten,  i  cup 
of  white  powdered  sugar,  i  large  spoonful  of  butter,  to  which  add, 
very  slowly,  3  quarts  of  fresh  milk  and  2  teaspoonfuls  essence  lemon  ; 
steam  till  thick. 

PLAIN  CUSTARD.  (Mrs.  Bullock,  Richmond,  Va.) — Boil  a  stick  of 
cinnamon  in  a  quart  of  new  milk,  and  let  it  stand  until  cold;  take  5 
eggs,  usin-g  the  whites  of  only  two,  beat  them  well  and  mix  with  the 
milk,  sweeten  and  strain  it  and  add  a  glass  of  wine;  set  your  cups  in 
an  oven  of  water;  boil  the  water  to  cook  the  custards  or  bake  them. 

FROZKN  CUST\RD. — One  quart  of  cream,  2  quarts  of  milk,  i  1-2 
Ibs.  of  sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  with  milk,  eggs  and  sugar,  put  on  the 
fire  and  let  them  scald  ;  just  cook  enough  to  take  away  the  raw  taste  ; 
when  cold  add  cream  ;  flavor  when  partly  frozen;  if  lemon  is  used, 
i  large  one,  rind  and  juice,  is  sufficient. 

ORNTAMKNTAL  FROTH. — Whisk  the  whites  of  4  or  5  eggs  to  a  solid 
froth,  then  thin  in  1-2  Ib.  of  preserved  blackberries  or  raspberries, 
beat  all  together,  then  pour  it  over  the  top  of  blanc  mange. 

CUSTARD  POWDER. — One  Ib.  of  good  corn  starch,  2  ozs.  powdered 


284  CUSTARDS. 

tragacanth,  i  dram  essence  lemon,  1-2  dram  essential  oil  of  almonds, 
mix  and  put  them  in  i  oz.  packets ;  take  i  pint  of  milk,  rub  up  the 
contents  of  a  packet  with  a  little  of  it,  boil  the  remainder  with  2  ozs. 
of  lump  sugar,  pour  while  boiling  on  the  custard,  stir  it  well  and 
bake. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  CUSTARD. — Cut  as  many  very  thin  slices  of 
white  bread  as  will  cover  the  bottom  and  line  the  sides  of  a  bak- 
ing dish,  but  first  rub  it  thick  with  butter;  put  apples,  in  thin  slices, 
into  the  dish  in  layers  till  full,  strewing  sugar  between  and  bits  of 
butter ;  in  the  meantime  soak  as  many  thin  slices  of  bread  as  will 
cover  the  whole  in  warm  milk,  over  which  lay  a  plate  and  a  weight 
to  keep  the  bread  close  on  the  apples;  bake  slowly  3  hours;  to  a 
middling-sized  dish  use  1-2  Ib.  of  butter  in  the  whole. 

COFFEE  CUSTARDS. — For  6  cups,  measure  out  4  cups  of  boiled 
milk,  put  it  in  a  basin  with  i  cup  of  strong  coffee,  add  5  yolks  of 
eggs  and  112  spoonfuls  of  sugar  powdered  ;  mix  well  and  strain 
through  a  pointed  strainer ;  fill  the  cups  with  the  mixture,  strain  off 
carefully  ail  froth  from  the  surface,  put  them  in  a  flat  stew  pan  with 
boiling  water  to  the  height  of  the  cups;  put  the  stew  pan,  with  live 
coals  on  its  cover,  and  on  a  very  slow  fire  for  15  minutes  ;  the  water 
should  only  bubble  for  a  few  minutes;  set  the  custards  to  cool  in 
water,  wipe  the  cups  clean  and  serve. 

CARAMKL  CUSTARDS. — Prepare  as  for  coffee  custards,  using  i  cup 
of  caramel  instead  of  coffee;  put  in  a  small  coffee  kettle  or  sage 
boiler  i  cupful  of  pounded  sugar,  stir  over  the  fire  till  it  becomes  of 
a  dark-looking  color,  then  add  i  cup  of  water,  boil  i  minute  till  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  add  this  to  the  custard  instead  of  the  coffee,  finish 
in  cups,  as  for  coffee  custard. 

ALMOND  CUSTARDS. — Blanch  and  beat  1-2  Ib.  of  sweet  almonds 
or  1-2  oz.  of  bitter  almonds,  using  a  little  rose  water  to  prevent 
their  oiling,  sweeten  2  1-4  cups  of  milk  and  the  same  quantity  of 
cream  and  mix  them  with  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  stirring  them  well  as 
they  cool;  rub  the  almonds  through  a  sieve  to  this  and  set  it  over 
the  fire  to  thicken,  carefully  stirring  it,  pour  it  into  a  pitcher  and  stir 
until  it  cools  ;  instead  of  boiling  this  may  be  baked  in  cups,  or  in  a 
dish  with  an  elegantly  cut  paste  border :  flour  of  rice  may  be  used 
instead  of  almonds  ;  they  are  then  called  rice  custards. 

CORN  STARCH  CUSTARDS. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch 
to  2  pints  of  milk ;  stir  the  corn  with  a  small  quantity  of  the  milk 
and  flavor  it  to  taste  ;  beat  up  3  eggs,  heat  the  remainder  of  the 
milk  near  boiling,  then  add  the  mixed  starch,  the  eggs,  5  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  or  a  little  butter  and  salt ;  boil  it  2  minutes,  stir- 
ring it  briskly. 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES.  285 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES. 

COCOANUT  JELLY. — Put  a  pound  of  picked  red  currants  into  a 
china  dish,  pour  over  4  ounces  of  clarified  sugar,  cover  it  and  let  it 
stand  for  a  night  in  a  cool  place,  the  next  day  pour  the  currants  over 
a  stretched  napkin  or  in  a  filtering  bag  and  let  it  drain  the  juice  off 
clear.  In  the  meantime  prepare  a  wine  jelly  in  which  only  2  lemons 
are  to  be  used  ;  after  the  jelly  has  been  clarified,  strained  and  allowed 
to  get  cold  mix  it  with  the  currant  jelly. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY. — Allow  1 2  ounces  of  sugar  for  every  pound 
of  fruit,  wash  the  berries  in  your  kettle  till  soft,  or  boil  them,  mix  in 
the  sugar  thoroughly,  boil  1-2  hour,  then  put  into  glasses.  The  jufce 
before  preserving  should  be  strained. 

ORANGK  JELLY. — Boil  2  ounces  of  isinglass  in  i  pint  of  water,  3-4 
pound  of  loaf  sugar  in  another  pint  of  water,  squeeze  8  oranges, 
add  the  juice  and  rind  of  i  lemon  and  grate  the  peel  of  some  of 
the  oranges,  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  let  it  boil  for  20 
minutes  or  less  ;  strain  through  a  flannel  bag  and  put  into  glasses 
or  a  mould.  Or  two  quarts  of  calve's  feet  or  cow  heel  stock  made 
stiff,  add  the  juice  of  12  large  California  oranges  and  the  peel  of 
6,  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  peel  of  i  ;  pare  the  oranges  and 
lemons  very  thin,  boil  together  for  1-2  hour  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Strain  through  a  piece  of  muslin  into  glasses. 

LEMON  JELLY. — Dissolve  i  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  pint  of  water, 
then  add  i  pound  of  lump  sugar,  the  juice  and  rind  of  2  lemons,  let 
it  boil  10  minutes  after  the  ingredients  are  in ;  strain  into  glasses  or 
a  mould. 

FRUIT  JELLY  WITH  CHAMPAGNE. — Put  2  ounces  of  gelatine  in  a 
stew  pan  with  3-4  pound  of  lump  sugar,  beat  3  whites  of  eggs, 
moisten  them  with  i  quart  of  water  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  pour 
the  whole  into  the  stew  pan  containing  the  gelatine  and  put  it  on  the 
fire,  stirring  with  a  wire  whisk  until  it  boils ;  take  the  jelly  off  the  fire, 
let  it  cool  for  a  few  minutes  and  strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  pour  it 
back  and  strain  again  until  it  is  perfectly  clear ;  when  quite  cold  add 
i  pint  of  champagne  to  the  jelly;  cut  some  pears  and  apples  to  an 
olive  shape  and  boiled  in  a  syrup  with  dried  cherries,  preserved  apri- 
cots and  green  gages,  put  a  plain  cylinder  mould  in  the  ice,  pour  in 
1-8  inch  thickness  of  jelly,  pour  in  sufficient  jelly  to  cover  it,  and  con- 
tinue the  layers  of  fruit  and  jelly  until  the  mould  is  nearly  full  then  let 
it  set  a  little  and  finish  with  jelly  only  ;  cover  the  mould  with  a  baking 
sheet  with  ice  on  the  top,  let  it  remain  on  the  ice  2  hours,  turn  the 
jelly  out  of  the  mould  and  serve.  This  jelly  may  be  garnished  with 
fresh  strawberries,  grapes,  apricots,  peaches,  currants,  &c. 


286  JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES. 

WINE  JELLY  (made  with  gelatine.) — Put  3-4  ounce  of  gelatine  into 
a  pint  of  water  the  night  before  making  the  jelly  with  a  bit  of  lemon 
peel  and  3-4  pound  of  sugar;  squeeze  into  a  pint  measure  the  juice 
of  4  lemons  with  i  1-2  glass  of  brandy,  some  orange  flavoring  or 
spirit  of  punch  and  fill  up  with  raisin  wine,  whites  and  yolks  of  2 
eggs  beaten,  boil  gently  till  the  scum  separates  and  press  through  a 
jelly  bag,  put  into  glasses  or  a  mould,  let  it  remain  on  the  ice  for  2 
hours,  turn  the  jelly  out  of  the  mould  and  serve.  This  jelly  may  be 
garnished  with  strawberries,  apricots,  grapes,  peaches,  cherries,  cur- 
rants, &c. 

•  CKANBKKKY  JELLY. — In  an  enamelled  kettle  put  the  berries,  set 
over  the  fire  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  after  they  begin 
to  boil  break  them  with  a  spoon  ;  iia  a  few  moments  take  them  from 
the  fire  and  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve ;  allow  a  cup  of  sugar  to 
each  cup  of  the  berry  juice  (strained)  ;  boil  together  till  it  jellys ;  it 
will  not  take  as  long  as  other  fruit. 

POMEGRANATE  JELLY. — Extract  the  bright  pips  from  16  ripe  pome- 
granates, bruise  these  in  a  basin  with  i  pound  of  roughly  pounded 
sugar,  add  these  to  a  gill  of  spring  water,  and  then  filter  the  prepar- 
ation through  a  jelly  bag  without  the  aid  of  paper  pulp,  in  order  to 
preserve  the  delicate  flavor  of  the  fruit.  The  strained  juice  of  the 
pomegranates  must  be  mixed  with  2  ounces  of  clarified  isinglass,  6 
drops  of  cochineal,  and,  if  necessary,  to  mold  out  the  quantity  of 
jelly  required  to  fill  the  mould  some  thin  clarified  syrup  may  be 
added ;  set  a  jelly  mould  in  a  basin  of  rough  ice  and  fill  the  mould 
with  alternate  layers  of  jelly  and  the  bright  pips  of  this  fruit. 

NOTE — A  glass  of  nozean  maybe  added  if  required. 

BARBERRY  JELLY  WITH  APPLES. — Clarify  2  ounces  of  gelatine  with 
3  whites  of  eggs,  i  1-2  pint  of  water,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
boil  i  quart  of  syrup  in  a  copper  boiler  or  preserving  kettle  and 
throw  into  it  1-4  pound  of  picked  berries,  put  the  whole  into  a 
basin,  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  for  2  hours,  then  strain  the  bar- 
berries through  a  cloth  and  mix  the  syrup  with  the  gelatine.  Should 
the  jelly  be  of  too  pale  a  color,  add  a  few  drops  of  prepared  cochi- 
neal. Cut  5  large,  plump,  ripe  apples  in  8  pieces,  cook  them  in 
some  syrup,  and  drain  them  on  a  sieve ;  put  a  cylander  mold  in  ice, 
pour  in  some  jelly  to  the  depth  of  1-4  inch  ;  when  it  is  set  arrange 
on  it  a  layer  of  the  pieces  of  apples,  cover  them  with  jelly,  let  it  set, 
continue  in  the  same  way  till  the  mould  is  nearly  full  with  layers  of 
fruit  and  jelly,  then  let  it  settle  a  little  and  finish  with  jelly  only,  cover 
the  mould  with  a  baking  sheet  with  ice  on  the  top. 

APPLE  JELLY. — Pare  and  core  some  ripe,  plump,  well-shaped  ap- 
ples, such  as  pippins  or  other  nice  apples,  and  throw  them  into  cold 
water  as  you  do  them  ;  put  them  into  a  preserving  pan,  and  with  as 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES.  287 

little  water  as  will  cover  them  ;  let  them  coddle,  and  when  the  lower 
sides  are  done  turn  them.  Observe  that  they  do  not  lie  too  close  when 
put  in.  If  you  wish  the  jelly  to  be  red  mix  some  pounded  cochi- 
neal with  the  water  and  boil  with  the  fruit ;  when  sufficiently  done, 
take  them  out  of  the  dish  that  they  are  to  be  served  in,  the  stalk 
downwards.  Take  the  water  and  make  a  rich  jelly  of  it  with  loaf 
sugar,  boiling  the  thin  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon.  When  come  to 
a  jelly  let  it  grow  cold  and  put  it  on  and  among  the  apples ;  cut  the 
peel  of  a  lemon  in  narrow  strips  and  across  the  eye  of  the  apple. 
Take  care  that  the  color  be  fine  at  first,  or  the  fruit  will  not  after- 
wards gain  it.  Use  as  little  cochineal  as  will  serve  best,  or  the  syrup 
will  have  a  bitter  taste. 

JELLY  OF  GOOSEHKKRIKS. — Let  them  be  of  the  right  crystal  sort, 
dead  ripe;  plump  through  a  hair  sieve,  keeping  back  all  the  seeds 
and  hulls;  then  put  the  pulp  into  a  preserving  pan  or  skillet  with  al- 
most its  weight  in  the  best  white  sugar;  boil  it  together  over  a  clear 
fire,  keeping  it  stirred  till  it  is  quite  thick  and  will  jelly,  then  put  it 
into  glasses  without  further  straining. 

JELLIED  GRAPES — (Mrs.  Lewis.) — One-third  cup  of  rice,  2  cups 
uf  grapes,  1-2  cup  of  water,  and  2  spoonfuls  of  wh'te  sugar  dust; 
sprinkle  the  rice  and  sugar  among  the  grapes  while  placing  them  in 
a  dish ;  pour  on  the  water,  cover  close  and  simmer  2  hours  slowly  in 
the  oven.  Serve  cream  for  sauce  or  as  cold  pudding.  If  served 
as  warm  as  pudding  increase  slightly  the  proportion  of  sugar  and 
rice. 

CURRANT  JELLY  EITHER  RED  OR  BLACK. — Take  i  Ib.  of  double 
refined  sugar  put  into  a  skillet  or  an  enameled  stew  pan  with  just 
enough  water  to  moisten  it,  boil  it  up  and  clarify  with  the  white  of 
an  egg,  skim  it  clean,  then  put  in  the  juice  of  i  quart  of  currants  and 
boil  it  till  you  think  it  will  jelly,  then  strain  through  a  muslin  bag  into 
glasses  ;  pour  a  little  brandy  on  the  top  of  each  and  tie  over  them 
a  double  paper.  Some  put  a  little  brandy  on  the  top  of  them  and 
sprinkle  sugar  over  that  and  tie  down  ;  some  dip  a  piece  of  tissue 
paper  in  brandy,  and  over  that  a  piece  of  light  brown  paper  dip- 
ped in  gum  arabic  water,  then  tie  down. 

WINK  JELLY. — Dissolve  2  medium  sized  boxes  of  Cox's  galatine 
in  i  quart  of  boiling  water;  add  another  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  wa- 
ter, 2  pounds  of  white  crushed  sugar,  i  pint  of  sherry  wine  and  tne 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  3  lemons. 

NOTE — How  valuable  this  recipe  for  the  sick  patient  when  it  can 
be  prepared  in  so  short  a  time,  instead  of  the  long  waiting,  as  in 
other  modes,  which  to  the  poor  sufferer  seems  lengthened  for  an 
eternity. 

STRAWBERRIES  PRESERVED  IN  HONEY. — Drop  large,  not  quite  ripe 


288  JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES. 

strawberries  into  clear,  purified  honey  in  a  preserving  kettle  just 
coming  to  a  boil,  remove  the  froth  as  it  rises  and  let  them  simmer 
until  the  syrup  begins  to  thicken,  then  put  some  in  a  cold  saucer  and 
let  them  remain  awhile;  if  the  syrup  is  clear,  the  fruit  transparent 
and  tenacious  it  is  done.  Take  it  up  and  pour  the  syrup  in  a  deep 
dish ;  when  cold  put  the  fruit  carefully  in  a  jar  and  pour  the  syrup 
over  it.  Cut  a  paper  to  fit  the  top  of  the  jar,  dip  it  in  brandy  and 
lay  it  smoothly  over  the  preserves,  then  tie  a  paper  over  the  mouth 
and  set  it  away  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  The  honey  forms  a  syrup  more 
readily  than  sugar,  and  hardens  the  fruit  quickly.  On  a  warm,  dry 
day  the  preserves  can  be  set  in  the  sun. 

To  PRESERVE  PEARS. — Pare  very  thin  and  simmer  in  a  thin  syrup, 
and  let  them  lie  a  day  or  two.  Make  the  syrup  richer  and  simmer 
again,  and  repeat  this  until  they  are  clear,  then  drain  and  dry  them 
in  the  sun  or  cool  oven  a  very  little  time.  They  must  be  kept  in 
syrup  and  dried  as  wanted,  which  makes  them  more  moist  and 
rich. 

CRAB  APPLE  PRESERVES. — To  i  pound  of  crab  apples  take  a 
pound  of  white  sugar,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  syrup  from 
common  apples  ;  dissolve  the  sugar  in  it,  let  it  boil  and  skim  clear ; 
then  prick  the  crabs  with  a  coarse  needle,  or  a  fine  wooden  splinter 
is  better,  and  put  them  into  the  syrup.  Let  them  boil  gently  till  a 
straw  will  pierce  them,  put  them  into  pots  and  cover  them  well  with 
syrup. 

A  NEW  AND  EXCELLENT  WAY  TO  PRESERVE  PEACHES. — (Mrs,  B.) 
Pare,  halve  and  weigh  the  peaches,  then  put  them  into  a  preserving 
kettle  full  of  boiling  water,  and  to  every  6  pounds  of  fruit  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  ;  let  them  boil  i  minute,  take  them  off  and  throw 
them  into  cold  water  and  remove  any  dark  scum  that  may  adhere  to 
them;  make  the  syrup  of  1-2  pound  sugar  and  a  gill  of  water  to 
every  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  and  clarify  it,  and  when  well  skimmed 
put  in  the  fruit,  and  when  1-2  done  take  the  peaches  from  the  syrup 
and  lay  on  dishes  so  that  each  piece  shall  be  separate,  and  let  them 
get  entirely  cold,  then  return  to  the  boiling  syrup  and  cook  until 
done.  Boil  the  syrup  until  rich  and  clear.  This  preserve  will  keep 
12  months. 

N.  B.  It  is  best  to  warm  the  jars  and  put  the  preserves  in  hot ;  if 
the  jars  are  of  glass  they  will  break  unless  heated  before  filling 
them. 

SPICED  PEACHES. — To  9  pounds  of  peaches  add  4  1-2  pounds  of 
sugar,  i  pint  of  vinegar,  and  cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace  tied  in 
separate  cloths  ;  pare  and  halve  the  peaches  and  put  them  in  a  jar, 
boil  the  vinegar,  spice  and  sugar  together  for  a  few  moments  and 
pour  over  the  peaches  boiling  hot,  let  them  stand  over  night,  and  in 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES.  289 

the  morning  put  all  in  a  kettle  and  boil  10  minutes.  Take  out  the 
peaches,  leaving  the  spice,  and  boil  the  vinegar  till  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  pour  over  the  peaches. 

PINE  APPLE  PRESERVES  WITHOUT  COOKING. — Remove  thoroughly 
with  a  very  sharp  knife  the  rough  rind  of  the  pine  apple  and  cut  in 
thin  slices,  then  for  every  pound  of  the  fruit  ailow  i  of  sugar,  fine 
and  white  ;  put  at  the  bottom  of  small  glass  jars,  sugar  i  inch  deep, 
then  put  in  a  layer  of  pine  apple  sliced  nearly  i  inch  deep,  then  a 
layer  of  sugar  of  the  same  depth,  press  down  with  a  spoon  as  tightly 
as  possible  not  to  mash  the  fruit,  then  another  layer  of  sugar,  then 
of  apple,  and  so  on  till  the  jar  is  full ;  close  tightly  with  sealing  wax. 
It  will  taste  like  the  fresh  fruit. 

A  WEST  INDIA  MODE  OF  PRESERVING  PINE  APPLE. — Gather  the 
pines  with  small  tops,  or  if  foreign  fruit  select  in  the  same  way,  then 
with  a  short  knife  remove  the  little  prickly  leaves  between  every 
flake,  but  be  careful  not  to  cut  too  near  the  top  ;  put  them  into  salt 
and  water  a  little  warm,  to  make  them  turn  yellow,  which  will  be  in 
about  24  hours,  then  place  them  on  a  slow  fire  in  water  and  lemon 
juice,  composed  of  three  parts  of  the  former  and  one  of  the  latter ; 
do  not  keep  them  too  long  on  the  fire,  for  fear  of  losing  the  top  ; 
when  they  are  done  put  them  in  cold  water,  then  take  them  out  and 
let  them  be  thoroughly  dried ;  put  a  good  rich  syrup  to  them,  which 
must  be  changed  for  fresh  syrup  three  or  four  days  afterwards,  or 
sooner. 

To  PRESERVE  QUINCES. — Pare  and  cut  them  in  pieces  one  inch 
thick,  take  out  the  cores  carefully,  so  as  to  have  the  slices  in  the 
form  of  a  ring,  allow  i  pound  of  nice  white  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
fruit ;  dissolve  in  cold  water,  having  i  quart  of  water  to  i  pound  of 
sugar,  then  put  it  to  the  sliced  quinces  and  let  them  soak  in  it  10  or 
12  hours.  Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  put  it  on  a  moder- 
ate fire,  cover  them  over  and  let  the  quinces  boil  gently.  There 
should  be  more  than  enough  syrup  to  cover  the  quinces;  when  a 
straw  will  enter  them  easily  take  them  from  the  fire  and  turn  them 
over  and  boil  down  the  syrup  so  that  there  will  be  just  enough  to  cover 
the  fruit.  The  fruit  and  syrup  will  be  clear  when  done.  The  par- 
ings and  cores  of  the  quinces  with  a  few  whole  ones  will  make  a  nice  ' 
marmalade. 

BRANDY  PEACHES. — Peel  fine  large  peaches  that  are  nearly  ripe, 
weigh  them  and  allow  1-4  pound  of  the  best  white  sugar  to  every 
pound  of  fruit-  Put  the  sugar  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  cover  it 
with  water;  boil  it  15  minutes,  and  after  it  gets  hot  through  care- 
fully remove  the  scum,  then  drop  i  dozen  peaches  in  at  a  time  until 
you  get  all  cooked  enough  to  put  a  straw  in  ;  take  them  out  care- 
fully with  a  skimmer  and  put  them  to  cool  in  flat  dishes ;  when  per- 


290 

X 

fectly  cold  put  them  in  a  jar,  let  the  syrup  cook  thick,  and  when 
that  is  cold  mix  1-2  syrup  and  1-2  French  brandy  or  apple  brandy, 
cover  the  peaches  well  with  it ;  keep  them  well  covered. 

BRANDY  GRAPES. — For  this  purpose  the  grapes  should  be  in  large 
bunches  and  quite  ripe.  Remove  every  grape  that  is  the  least  shriv- 
eled or  in  any  way  defective.  With  a  needle  prick  each  grape  in 
three  places.  Have,  ready  a  sufficiency  of  the  best  loaf  sugar  pow- 
dered and  sifted,  put  some  sugar  into  the  bottom  of  the  jars,  then 
put  in  a  bunch  of  grapes,  and  cover  all  thickly  with  sugar,  then  an- 
other bunch,  then  more  sugar,  and  so  on  till  the  jar  is  nearly  full ; 
finishing  with  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  fill  up  to  the  top  with  the  best 
white  brandy ;  cover  the  jars  as  closely  as  possible  and  set  them 
away.  They  must  not  go  over  the  fire.  The  grapes  should  be  of 
the  best  quality. 

APPLE  SWEET  MEATS. — To  12  pounds  of  sweet  apples  add  4 
pounds  of  sugar,  i  pint  of  vinegar.  Put  the  vinegar  and  sugar 
together  to  dissolve,  then  put  in  the  apples  with  lemon,  ginger  root 
and  cloves. 

ISINGLASS  OR  GELATINE  JELLY. — (Substitutes  for  calPs  feet.) — 
Three  ounces  of  isinglass  or  gelatine,  2  quarts  of  water ;  put  the 
isinglass  or  gelatine  into  a  sauce  pan  with  the  above  proportion 
of  cold  water,  bring  it  quickly  to  a  boil,  and  let  it  boil  very  fast 
until  the  liquor  is  reduced  1-2,  carefully  remove  the  scum  as  it 
rises,  then  strain  it  through  -a  jelly  bag,  and  it  will  be  ready  for 
use.  If  not  required  very  clear,  it  may  be  merely  strained  through 
a  fine  sieve  instead  of  being  run  through  a  bag.  Rather  more 
than  1-2  ounce  of  isinglass  is  about  the  proper  quantity  to  use 
for  a  quart  of  strong  calf's  feet  stock,  and  rather  more  than  2 
ounces  for  the  same  quantity  of  fruit  juice.  As  isinglass  varies 
so  much  in  quality  and  strength  it  is  difficult  to  give  the  exact 
proportions  ;  the  larger  the  mould  the  stiffer  should  be  the  jelly,  and 
where  there  is  no  ice  more  isinglass  must  be  used  than  if  the  mix- 
ture w'ere  frozen.  This  forms  a  stock  for  all  kinds  of  jellies,  which 
may  be  flavored  in  many  ways.  Sufficient,  with  wine,  sfyrup,  fruit, 
&c.,  to  fill  2  moderate  sized  moulds.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

N.  B.  The  above,  when  boiled,  should  be  perfectly  clear,  and  may 
be  mixed  with  warm  wine  flavorings,  fruits,  &c  ,  and  then  run  through 
the  bag. 

SWEETMEAT  OF  CURRANT  JELLY. — Pick  the  stalks  from  your  fruit, 
wash  and  set  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain,  then  have  4«pounds  of  red 
currants,  8  pounds  each  of  white  currants  and  raspberries  and  3 
pints  of  water ;  put  all  into  your  preserving  kettle  and  set  it  on  the 
stove  or  fire,  continually  stiring  it  to  prevent  its  burning  and  sticking 
to  the  bottom,  and  let  boil  about  10  minutes,  then  place  a  sieve  over 


JBLLIES  AND  PRESERVES. 

a  basin  of  suitable  size  to  catch  the  juice  from  the  draining  cur- 
rants, which  have  been  put  into  the  sieve;  let  them  remain  till  all 
the  moisture  has  passed  out,  then  pass  the  juice  while  hot  through 
a  tammy  or  muslin  bag,  then  for  every  pint  of  juice  allow  i  Ib. 
of  loaf  sugar  and  boil  it  slowly  until  it  thickens,  stirring  with  a 
clean  skimmer  to  prevent  its  boiling  over,  and  keeping  it  skimmed 
to  remove  all  the  impurities  that  may  rise  to  the  top,  now  and 
then  lifting  the  skimmer  out  of  the  syrup,  and  when  the  boiling 
juice  drops  from  it  in  thin  sheets  it  is  done.  Take  it  off  the  fire 
and  fill  your  small  jars  or  pots. 

N.  B.  Currant  jelly  is  made  precisely  as  the  above,  only  the 
raspberries  are  left  out  and  3-4  pound  of  sugar  is  allowed  to  each 
pint  of  juice.  Currant  jelly  is  used  for  the  garnishing  of  pastry 
and  the  sweetmeat  of  currant  jelly  for  sauces  to  serve  with  game 
of  any  kind  or  other  fresh  meats. 

RASPBERRY  JAM; — To  every  pound  of  raspberries  allow  i  pound 
of  sugar,  1-4  pint  of  red-currant  juice.  Gather  the  fruit  of  this  pre- 
serve in  fine  weather,  and  use  after  picking  as  soon  as  possible. 
Take  off  the  stalks,  put  the  raspberries  into  a  preserve-pan,  then 
mash  them  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  pestle,  and  let  them  boil  15  min- 
ute, skimming  them  well,  then  add  the  currant  juice  and  sugar,  and 
boil  1-2  hour.  Skim  the  jam  well  after  the  sugar  is  added,  or  the 
preserves  will  be  turbid.  The  addition  of  the  currant  juice  is  a  very 
great  improvement  to  this  preserve,  as  it  gives  a  piquant  taste,  which 
the  flavor  of  the  raspberries  seem  to  require.  It  is  best  to  put  this 
jam  in  pint  cups,  jars,  or  cans. 

QUINCK  MARMALADE. — Pare  and  quarter  quinces  and  take  their 
weight  in  sugar,  to  every  4  pounds  of  sugar,  add  one  quart  of  water; 
boil  and  skim,  and  have  ready,  against  4  pounds  of  quince'  are  toler- 
ably tender,  by  the  following  mode  :  lay  (hem  in  a  stone  jar,  with  a 
teacup  of  water  at  the  bottom  ;  and  pack  them  with  a  little  sugar 
strewed  between ;  cover  the  jar  closely,  and  set  in  a  stove  or  cool 
oven,  and  let  them  soften  till  the  color  becomes  red,  then  pour  the 
first  syrup  and  a  quart  of  juice  into  the  preserving  pan,  and  boil  all 
together,  till  the  marmalade  be  completed,  breaking  the  lumps  with 
the  preserving  ladle.  By  following  the  above  recipe,  the  fruit  which 
is  so  hard,  will  make  a  good  marmalade  in  a  short  time.  Stewing 
them  in  a  jar  and  then  squeezing  the  quince  pulp  through  a  thin  cloth 
is  the  best  method  of  obtaining  the  juice,  to  add  as  above,  but  first 
dip  the  cloth*  in  boiling  water,  wring,  and  then  shake  it  out  and  pour 
in  the  juice. 

APPLE  MARMALADE. —Take  apples  that  are  ripe,  large  and  round, 
or  12  pippins,  or  russets,  peel,  core  and  cut  in  quarters,  put  them  in 
a  stew  pan,  with  2  or  3  spoonfuls  of  water,  and  2  cups  of  sugar,  put 


292  JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES. 

them  over  a  slow  fire  till  melted,  then  reduce,  by  stirring  over  a  fierce 
fire,  cool  and  dish  up  the  apples  into  a  compote  dish,  sprinkle  some 
fine  sugar  over  the  top  and  glaze  it  with  the  red  hot  salamander. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE.  (K..  A.)  — Carefully  remove  the  rind  from 
bitter  or  sweet  oranges,  without  any  of  the  white,  boil  till  soft,  chang- 
ing the  water  twice  ;  then  soak  them  in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes, 
drain  and  pound  them  to  a  fine  paste ;  to  each  pound  of  peel 
allow  1-2  a  pound  of  white  granulated  sugar,  make  a  strong  syrup  of 
it,  put  into  the  paste  and  boil  the  two  together,  stirring  constantly,  till 
the  marmalade  is  done.  When  done,  it  will  draw  out  like  a  thread 
between  the  thumb  and  finger.  The  rind  of  shaddock  or  pomeloe 
can  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKE. — 1-4  pound  of  butter,  i  pound  of  loaf  sugar, 
the  rind  of  2  lemons,  and  the  juice  of  3  ;  put  all  the  ingredients  into 
a  stew  pan,  carefully  grating  the  lemon  rind  and  straining  the  juice  ; 
keep  stirring  the  mixture  over  the  fire,  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and 
it  begins  to  thicken.  When  of  the  consistency  of  honey,  it  is  done  ; 
then  put  it  into  small  jars  and  keep  in  a  dry  place.  This  mixture 
will  remain  good  for  3  or  4  months.  When  made  into  cheesecakes, 
add  a  few  pounded  almonds,  or  candied  peel,  or  grated  sweet  bis- 
cuit, line  some  patty  pans  with  good  stiff  paste,  rather  more  than 
half  fill  them  with  the  mixture;  bake  for  1-4  hour  in  a  good  brisk 
oven.  Sufficient  for  24  cheese  cakes.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

LEMON  BUTTER. — i  pound  of  white  sugar,  1-4  pound  of  fresh  but- 
ter, 6  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  3  lemons,  taking  out  all  the  seeds. 
Boil  all  together  a  few  minutes,  till  thick  as  honey,  stirring  constant- 
ly ;  put  in  small  jars  or  tumblers,  covered  with  paper,  dipped  in 
white  of  egg.  One  teaspoonful  is  enough  for  about  a  cheese  cake. 
This  will  keep  for  a  long  time  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

APRICOTS  PRESERVED  WHOLE. — Take  the  largest  and  cleanest  ap- 
ricots to  be  had,  pick  out  the  stones  by  slitting  them  down  the  sides 
with  a  silver  knife  or  skewer;  take  nearly  their  weight  in  good  lump 
sugar,  dip  each  lump  in  water,  and  put  over  the  fire,  which  just  boil, 
skim,  and  put  by  till  cold,  then  pour  it  over  the  fruit  in  the  preserv- 
ing pan,  warm  very  quickly,  and  only  allow  them  to  simmer,  put  them 
by  till  next  day,  and  warm  them  again,  continuing  this  till  they  look 
clear  ;  then  take  the  fruit  from  the  syrup.  The  latter  must  now  be 
well  boiled  and  skimmed,  and  when  cold,  poured  over  the  fruit. 

GREEn  GAGES  PRESERVED  WHOLE. — Prick  them  all  over  with  a  pin 
or  splinter,  then  put  them  in  scalding  water;  let  them  simmer,  skim 
and  take  their  weight  in  sugar ;  put  the  sugar  into  the  preserving  pan, 
with  1-2  its  bulk  in  water,  let  it  boil  well  and  skim  very' clean  ;  put  in 
the  plums,  let  them  boil  up  once,  take  them  off  and  set  them  by  till 
next  day  ;  then  take  them  out  one  by  one  from  the  syrup,  boil  it  and 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES.  293 

skim  very  clear;  put  in  the  plums  and  let  them  boil  very  gently  for 
20  minutes,  take  them  off  as  before,  let  them  stand  till  cold,  then  put 
them  into  jars,  laying  them  very  close. 

PRESERVE  DAMSONS. — To  every  pound  of  damsons  allow  3-4  of  a 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  put  into  jars,  or  well  glazed  earthen  pots, 
alternately  a  layer  of  damsons  and  one  of  sugar  ;  tie  a  strong  paper 
or  cloth  over  the  pots,  and  set  them  in  the  oven,  after  tbe  bread  is 
drawn,  and  let  them  stand  till  the  oven  is  cold.  The  next  day  strain 
off  the  syrup  and  boil  it  till  thick  ;  when  cold,  put  the  damsons  into 
small  jars  or  glasses,  pour  over  the  syrup,  which  should  cover  them, 
and  cover  with  a  cloth. 

RHUBARB  PRESERVES. — To  every  12  pounds  of  fruit,  peeled  and 
cut  as  for  tarts,  put  the  same  weight  in  lump  sugar,  and  1-4  pound  of 
bitter  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  the 
peel  chopped  fine  ;  after  putting  the  sugar  to  the  rhubarb,  let  it  stand 
through  the  night,  then  boil  it  ;  when  it  begins  to  thicken  add  pound- 
ed (fine)  coniander,  and  the  other  ingredients,  together  with  i  1-2 
wineglass  of  good  French  brandy  ;  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger  is  thought 
to  be  an  improvement  to  the  flavor. 

CHERRY  PRESERVE. — Take  5  pounds  of  large,  fully  ripe,  and  plump 
cherries,  so  that  after  picking  and  stoning  them,  there  may  be  4  Ibs. 
left ;  put  2  Ibs.  of  lump  sugar  into  the  preserving  pan  with  i  pint  of 
water,  and  boil  it  for  3  minutes,  then  add  the  cherries,  stirring  them 
lig-htly  with  the  skimmer,  so  as  not  to  break  them  ;  boil  for  8  minutes, 
then  pour  the  whole  into  a  large  basin,  and  let  the  cherries  soak  for 
24  hours,  then  strain  them,  boil  the  syrup,  adding  i  pound  of  lump 
sugar,  throw  in  the  cherries  and  boil  for  8  minutes  more  ;  when  cold, 
put  into  pots,  and  cover  in  the  same  way  as  currant  jelly,  with  around 
paper,  dipped  in  brandy,  and  laid  on  the  top  of  the  preserve,  and 
then  with  a  round  paper  tied  round  the  top  of  the  pots  with  a  string. 

GRAPES  PRESERVED  IN  BUNCHES.— Take  full  clusters  of  grapes,  not 
fully  ripe,  trim  the  stems  neatly,  make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 
and  a  teacup  of  water,  for  each  pound  of  grapes ;  make  it  boiling  hot 
and  pour  it  over  them,  let  them  remain  fora  day  or  two,  then  drain 
off  the  syrup,  boil  it  again,  skim  it  and  pour  it  over;  after  a  day  or 
two,  put  the  grapes  and  syrup  over  the  fire,  boil  very  gently,  until 
they  are  clear,  and  the  syrup  rich ;  take  them  up  carefully,  lay  them 
on  plates  to  become  cold,  boil  the  syrup  for  nearly  an  hour,  skim  it, 
let  it  cool  and  settle,  put  the  grapes  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup 
over.  Serve  cold. 


294  MINCED  MEATS. 

MINCED  MEATS. 

MINCED  MEAT  WITH  UNCOOKED  MEAT. — Take  3  1-2  pounds  each 
of  finely  chopped  beef  suet,  the  lean  sirloin  of  beet  minced  raw,  and 
finely  chopped  apples  that  are  large  and  plump,  7  pounds  of  well 
picked,  washed  and  dried  currants,  1-2  pound  each  of  citron,  lemon 
peel  and  orange  peel,  cut  small ;  2  Ib.  fine  moist  sugar,  i  oz.  mixed 
spices,  the  rind  and  juice  of  4  lemons  and  4  California  oranges.  Mix 
well  and  put  in  a  deep  pan,  mix  a  bottle  of  brandy  and  i  of  white 
wine,  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  oranges  that  have  been  grated  to- 
gether in  a  basin,  pour  1-2  over  and  press  down  tight  with  the  hand, 
then  add  the  other  half  and  cover  closely.  It  can  be  made  i  year  to 
be  used  the  next. 

MINCED  MEAT  WITH  RAISINS. — Of  the  lean  of  a  round  of  fresh 
beef  that  has  been  boiled  thoroughly  and  tender  recently,  but  cold, 
3  pounds  chopped  as  finely  as  possible  with  a  chopping  knife,  clear 
off  skin  and  filaments,  2  pounds  of  fresh  beef  suet  minced  very 
fine  and  add  to  it,  and  i  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Pick,  wash  and  dry  well  before  the  fire  2  pounds  of  currants  and 
2  pounds  of  the  best  of  raisins  seeded  and  chopped  fine.  Some 
raisins  have  no  seeds,  and  therefore  are  the  best  for  cooking  pur- 
poses. Three  pounds  of  finely  chopped  apples,  the  peel  and  juice 
of  2  large  lemons  or  oranges,  the  peel  grated  in  a  saucer  and  the 
juice  strained  through  a  sieve  over  it.  Mix  this  with  the  raisins  and 
currants ;  i  pint  of  sweet  wine,  i  tablespoonful  of  finely  powdered 
cinnamon  and  white  ginger,  the  spoons  heaped;  a  heaped  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  powdered  nutmeg,  cloves,  mace  and  pimento, 
and  also  1-2  pound  of  citron,  not  minced,  but  cut  into  large  slips. 
Press  the  whole  into  a  deep  stone  jar  when  thoroughly  mixed,  and 
keep  it  covered  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  One-half  the  quantity  is  enough 
unless  for  a  very  large  family.  Have  citron,  orange  and  lemon  peel 
ready,  and  put  some  in  each  of  the  pies  when  made. 

LEMON  MINCED  MEAT. — Pound  4  lemons  in  a  mortar  after  boiling 
them  till  soft,  or  chopping  them  while  warm  will  do.  Then  mix  with 
them  2  pounds  of  white  sugar,  let  it  remain  over  night,  then  the  next 
morning  add  2  pounds  of  suet  minced  very  fine,  i  pound  of  rai- 
sins chopped  and  seeded,  2  pounds  of  clean,  washed  and  dried 
currants,  a  gill  each  of  brandy  and  port  wine,  i  spoonful  of  mixed 
spices. 

RICH  MINCE  MEATS. — Take  12  pounds  of  fat  rump  beef,  the 
fatter  the  better,  4  pounds  of  fat  pork,  boil  them  together  in  just 
enough  water  to  cover  them  until  very  tender;"  when  sufficiently 
done  the  meat  will  fall  away  from  the  bone ;  chop  them  together 
while  warm ;  when  finely  minced  add  4  pounds  currants  washed, 


MINCED  MEATS. 


295 


dried  and  picked,  6  pounds  good  layer  raisins,  washed,  picked  and 
dried,  2  pounds  Sultana  or  seeded  raisins  cut  into  thin  slices.  Mix 
these  ingredients  before  the  meat  has  cooled  thoroughly,  then  add  8 
pounds  of  granulated  white  sugar,  1-2  pound  each  ground  allspice 
and  pepper,  1-4  ounce  cloves,  2  ounces  cinnamon;  2  ounces  ginger, 
2  ounces  mace — all  pounded.  Again  mix  the  whole  mass  until 
thoroughly  amalgamated.  Then  bring  the  liquor  that  your  meat 
was  boiled  in  again  to  a  boil,  strain  it  through  a  colander  over 
your  mixture,  stir  it  all  well,  then  add  i  gallon  of  the  best  Jamaica 
rum,  t-2  gallon  of  Madeira  or  good  white  wine,  get  your  mass  well 
mixed,  then  press  very  tightly  into  a  stone  jar,  pour  a  little  rum 
over  the  top,  and  set  away  tightly  covered  from  the  air  to  make 
delicious  pies  for  a  whole  year,  at  any  time  desired. 

How  TO  MAKE  MINCED  MEATS. — Six  pounds  lean  beef  and 
2  Ibs.  suet  chopped  fine,  6  Ibs.  of  raisins  with  seeds  removed,  2  Ibs. 
citron  cut  in  small  pieces,  2  Ibs.  dried  currants  well  picked,  washed 
and  dried,  6  Ibs.  brown  sugar,  i  peck  of  firm  apples  finely  chop- 
ped, 4  nutmegs  finely  chopped  or  grated,  2  lemons,  seeds  removed 
and  peel  grated,  i  tablespoonful  of  allspice  ground,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  cinnamon,  2  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  2  gallons  boiled 
apple  cider.  This  quantity  will  keep  for  2  months  in  a  very  cool  and 
dry  place. 

PLAIN  MINCED  MEAT  made  with  ingredients  of  home  manufacture 
and  very  nice. — Three  pounds  of  beef  or  chicken  chopped  fine,  2 
quarts  of  ripe  canned  or  dried  currants,  2  quarts  of  ripe  canned  or 
dried  cherries,  2  quarts  of  apples  after  they  are  finely  chopped,  two 
•quarts  of  citron  or  watermelon  rind  cut  fine,  i  gallon  rich,  boiled 
apple  cider  or  California  wine  strong  and  sweet,  two  quarts  of 
syrup  or  molasses,  2  grated  or  finely  beaten  nutmegs,  2  spoonfuls 
allspice,  two  of  cloves  finely  pounded.  After  the  ingredients  are 
thoroughly  mixed  add  a  little  salt  and  as  much  brown  or  white  sugar 
as  is  required  to  make  the  mixture  sweet  enough,  which  will  depend 
entirely  on  the  amount  of  sugar  previously  added  to  the  canned  fruit. 
If  fresh  apples  cannot  be  had,  take  3  pints  of  dried  apples  chopped 
fine  after  soaking  them  the  previous  night. 


296  PASTRY  FOR  PIES. 


PASTRY  FOR  PIES  OF  ANY  KIND. 

PLAIN  PASTRY — (Mrs.  E.  A.  Upshur.) — One  and  a  quarter  Ibs.  of 
lard,  1-4  Ib.  butter.  Divide  the  flour  into  two  parts,  3-4  in  one  part 
and  1-4  in  the  other;  cut  up  the  butter  in  the  3-4  of  the  flour  and 
make  it  very  stiff  with  a  little  water,  then  roll  in  the  lard  in  two  roll- 
ings and  use  the  other  flour  to  sift  over  the  lard  after  it  is  put  on  the 
paste  in  small  pieces  all  over  it.  The  pastry  should  be  worked  with 
a  knife  and  never  with  the  hand.  That  makes  it  soft  and  prevents 
it  from  flaking. 

To  PRESERVE  PIE  PASTE  FOR  A  TIME. — Take  the  pie  dough  or 
paste  trimmings  that  may  be  left,  mould  it  into  a  ball,  wrap  it  in  clean 
paper  or  put  into  a  flour  basket.  Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

A  LESS  EXPENSIVE  DOUGH  FOR  PIES. — Half  Ib.  of  butter,  3-4  Ib. 
flour,  2  spoonfuls  sour  cream,  2  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt.  For  all  kinds 
of  fruits. 

HOMEMADE  PASTRY. — One-quarter  Ib.  lard  or  butter,  or  butter  and 
lard  of  equal  proportions.  Take  a  small  portion  of  the  above,  mak- 
ing out  the  roll  very  thin,  handling  very  little,  dividing  the  lard  into 
three  portions. 

BEEF  SUET  TO  SOFTEN  FOR  MAKING  PIE  PASTE. — Have  it  well- 
soaked,  perfectly  clean,  dry,  fresh,  hard  and  chopped  fine,  then 
moisten  it  with  a  little  butter,  lard  or  oil,  while  working  or  beating 
it  in  a  mortar,  till  it  becomes  one  sheet,  when  it  is  ready  to  work  in 
your  flour  in  the  desired  proportion  to  make  a  pie  paste. 

SANDWICH  PASTRY. — Roll  out  pieces  of  paste  very  thin,  of  equal 
size,  spread  apricot  or  raspberry  jam  over  one  of  them,  cover  with 
the  other ;  bake  it ;  cut  it  in  squares  or  rounds  and  glaze  it  with 
French  glazing. 

RICE  PASTE  FOR  SWEETS. — Boil  1-2  Ib.  ground  rice  in  the  smallest 
quantity  of  water,  strain  from  it  all  the  moisture  as  well  as  you  can, 
beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  1-2  oz.  of  butter,  i  egg  well  beaten  and  it 
will  make  an  excellent  paste  for  tarts,  etc. 

PUFFEIT — (R.). — One  quart  sifted  flour,  in  which  rub  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  cream  tartar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2  teaspoonfuls  powdered 
sugar,  2  beaten  eggs,  mix  very  smoothly  and  add  i  pint  of  milk  and 
i  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water.  Bake  at  once. 
Serve  last  with  butter. 

PUFF  LOAVES. — To  i  pint  of  milk  add  4  moderate  spoonfuls 
flour,  4  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  1-2  Ib.  butter 
melted,  a  little  sugar  and  salt.  This  quantity  makes  6  puddings. 
Bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

FRENCH  PUFF  PASTB  OR  FJCUILLETAGE— (Founded  on  M.  Ude's 


PASTRY  FOR  PIES.  297 

Recipe). — Equal  quantities  of  flour  and  butter,  say  i  Ib.  of  each,  i 
pinch  of  salt  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  rather  more  than  i  gill  of  wa- 
ter. See  that  the  flour  is  perfectly  dry ;  squeeze  all  the  water 
from  the  butter,  then  squeeze  it  in  a  clean  cloth  till  there  is  no 
moisture ;  then  weigh  them ;  put  the  flour  on  the  paste-board, 
then  work  lightly  into  it  2  oz.  of  the  butter  and  make  a  hole  in 
the  center,  and  into  this  well  or  opening  put  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
the  salt  and  about  1-4  pint  water  (the  quantity  of  water  must  be 
regulated  by  the  cook,  as  it  is  impossible  to  give  the  exact  pro- 
portion of  it).  Knead  up  the  paste  quickly  and  lightly,  and  when 
quite  smooth  roll  it  square  to  the  thickness  of  about  1-2  inch. 
Presuming  that  the  batter  is  perfectly  free  from  moisture  and  as 
cool  as  possible,  roll  it  into  a  ball  and  place  the  ball  of  butter 
on  the  paste,  fold  the  paste  over  the  butter  all  round,  and  se- 
cure it  by  wrapping  it  well  all  over.  Flatten  the  paste  by  rolling 
it  lightly  with  the  rollingpin  until  it  is  quite  thin,  but  not  thin 
enough  to  allow  the  butter  to  break  thrpugh,  and  keep  the  board 
and  paste  dredged  lightly  with  flour  during  the  process  of  mak- 
ing it.  This  rolling  gives  it  the  first  turn.  Now  fold  the  paste 
in  three  and  roll  it  out  again,  and  should  the  weather  be  very 
warm  place  it  in  a  cold  place  on  the  ground  to  cool  between 
the  several  turns,  or  in  some  cool  place  where  cold  water  can  be  run 
under  the  paste-board,  and  thus  prevent  the  paste  from  spoiling  in 
warm  weather,  which  it  will  surely  do  unless  carefully  attended  to. 
Roll  out  the  paste  again  twice,  put  it  by  to  cool,  then  roll  it  out  twice 
more,  which  will  make  6  turnings  in  all.  Now  fold  the  paste  in  two 
and  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  If  properly  made  and  well  baked  this 
crust  will  be  delicious,  and  should  rise  in  the  oven  about  5  or  6 
inches.  The  paste  should  be  made  rather  firm  in  the  first  instance, 
as  the  ball  of  butter  is  liable  to  break  through.  Great  attention 
must  also  be  paid  to  keeping  the  butter  cool,  as,  if  this  is  in  a  soft  or 
liquid  state,  the  paste  will  not  answer  at  all.  Should  the  cook  be 
dextrous  enough  to  succeed  in  making  this,  the  paste  will  have  a 
much  better  appearance  than  that  made  by  the  process  of  dividing 
the  butter  into  four  parts  and  placing  it  over  the  rolled-out  paste  ; 
but,  until  experience  has  been  acquired,  it  is  recommended  puff  paste 
made  by  recipe  for  being  very  good.  The  above  paste  is  used  for 
vol  au  vent,  small  articles,  and,  in  fact,  everything  that  requires 
very  light  crust. 

POTATO  PUFF. — Take  cold  roast  meat,  beef,  mutton  and  ham  to- 
gether, clear  from  gristle,  cut  small  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  cut  pickles  if  liked.  Roll  and  mash  some  potatoes;  make 
them  into  a  paste  with  an  egg  and  roll  out  and  dredge  with  flour. 
Cut  round  with  a  saucer,  put  some  of  the  seasoned  meat  upon  one* 


298  PASTRY  FOR  PIES. 

half  and  fold  the  other  over  like  a  puff.  Pinch  neatly  around  and  fry 
a  nice  brown.  An  excellent  way  to  save  fragments  of  cold  meat. 

EXCF.LLENT  SHORT  CRUSTS. — To  every  pound  of  well-dried  flour 
allow  2  oz.  of  pounded  and  sifted  white  sugar ;  rub  into  it  3  oz.  of 
fresh  butter  so  fine  as  not  to  be  seen  ;  into  some  cream  put  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  beaten  and  mixed  into  a  smooth  paste.  Roll  it  thin  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

A  SUPERIOR  SHORT  CRUST. — To  every  pound  of  flour  allow  1-2 
Ib.  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  oz.  sifted  sugar,  i  gill  of  milk  ; 
rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  the  sugar  and  mix  the  whole  as  well 
as  possible  to  a  smooth  paste,  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten  in 
the  milk.  The  proportion  of  the  latter  ingredient  must  be  judged  of 
by  the  size  of  the  eggs ;  if  these  are  large,  so  much  will  not  be  re- 
quired, and  more  if  the  eggs  are  smaller. 

DRIPPING  CRUST  FOR  PUDDINGS,  PIES,  TARTS,  ETC. — To  every 
pound  of  flour  allow  6  oz.  of  clarified  beef  dripping,  1-2  pint  of  wa- 
ter. After  having  clarified  the  dripping  (which  should  be  done  by 
putting  the  dripping  into  a. clean  saucepan  and  letting  it  boil  for  a 
few  moments  over  a  slow  fire,  and  be  careful  to  skim  it  well,  let 
it  stand  to  cool  a  little,  then  strain  it  through  a  piece  of  muslin  into 
jars  for  use),  weigh  it,  and  to  every  pound  of  flour  allow  the  above  pro- 
portion of  time  for  dripping.  With  a  knife  work  the  flour  into  a  smooth 
paste  with  the  water,  rolling  it  three  times  each  time,  placing  on  the 
crust  2  oz.  of  the  dripping,  broken  into  small  pieces.  If  this  paste 
is  properly  made,  and  if  good  dripping  is  used,  and  not  too  much 
of  it.  it  will  be  found  good ;  and  by  the  addition  of  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  fine  sugar  k  may  be  converted  into  a  common  short  crust  for 
fruit  pies. 


MEAT  AND  SAVORY  PIES.  299 


PIES— MEAT  AND  SAVORY. 

All  pies  made  either  with  summer  fruit  or  with  winter  pre- 
serves will  be  improved  by  a  mixture  of  apples,  pared  and 
sliced.  Apples  will,  in  this  way,  eke  out  the  remains  of  a  pot 
of  jam  to  advantage.  They  are  especially  good  with  cher- 
ries, currants,  etc.,  and  will  be  found  an  agreeable  addition  to 
cranberries.  Equal  portions  also  of  cranberries  and  any.  sweet 
jam  will  improve  both.  When  apples  are  mixed  with  jam  they 
should  be  sliced  thin,  and  if  syrup  be  wanted  a  few  slices  boiled 
with  a  little  of  the  jam  in  sugar  and  water.  In  making  pies  of 
green  gooseberries,  apples,  or  rhubarb  the  sugar  should  be  white, 
and  boiled  in  very  little  water  to  make  a  syrup,  pour  no  water 
into  the  pie,  as  that  destroys  the  nice  flavor  of  the  fruit.  For  fresh 
fruits  short  crust  is  very  suitable.  Fresh  fruit  pies,  of  all  descrip- 
tions, whether  cherry,  green  gooseberry,  damson,  currant  or  rasp- 
berry may  all  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  taking  care  that  the 
fruit  is  freshly  gathered  and  cleanly  picked,  observing  also  that  if  the 
gooseberries  be  very  sour,  they  should  be  put  in  boiling  water  for 
1-4  of  an  hour.  One-quarter  Ib.  of  sugar  is  usually  allowed  to  every 
pound  of  fruit  in  making  pies.  When  pies  have  been  kept  till  they 
are  cold  the  crust  becomes  heavy  and  indigestable.  When  next 
used  they  should  be  warmed  before  the  fire  or  stove  to  lighten  the 
crust. 

FRUIT  PIE. — One  cup  of  sugar,  i  of  water,  i  tablespoonful  flour, 
i  teaspoonful  lemon  essence  (or  lemon  grated),  i  of- cream  tartar, 
1-2  teaspoonful  soda,  1-2  cup  dried  currants;  mix  and  boil,  stirring 
to  prevent  the  flour  from  settling. 

GRAPE  ME. — 1'ulp  your  grapes ;  put  the  skins  in  one  vessel  and 
the  pulp  into  another.  Simmer  the  pulp  and  strain  it  through  a 
colander ;  then  add  the  juice  to  the  skins  and  season  them  to  taste 
with  sugar.  Put  between  crusts  and  bake. 

DAMSON  PIE. —  They  should  be  cooked  with  water,  sugar  and 
spices  before  they  are  put  on  the  crust  or  between  them.  In  putting 
them  in  the  first  crust  put  butter  in  bits  on  the  fruit,  which  improves 
all  fruit  pies.  Small  grapes  should  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  for 
pies. 

CURRANT  PIE  WITH  OR  WITHOUT  RASPBERRIES. — These  red,  ripe 
fruits  require  but  little  baking.  When  the  currant  has  acquired  a 
pale  brown,  they  are  sure  to  be  done.  Sugar  baked  with  the  fruit 
mingles  better  and  gives  a  finer  flavor,  but  is  more  apt  to  turn  acid 
in  the  stomach  than  if  added  afterward.  On  this  account  it  is  better 
to  sweeten  pies  and  puddings  for  children  after  they  are  baked  or 
boiled. 


3OO  MEAT  AND  SAVORY   PIES. 

RAISIN  PIE. — Pour  i  quart  of  water  over  a  pound  of  raisins,  then 
dry  the  raisins  by  squeezing  them  in  a  cloth,  then  grate  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  into  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  dessert-  spoonful  of  flour  and  i  beaten 
egg,  then  stir  into  the  raisins  3  cups  of  boiling  water,  then  turn  the 
raisins  into  the  mixture  and  stir  it  again.  This  will  make  3  pies. 
Bake  between  two  crusts  as  other  pies. 

ELDERBERRY  PIE. — Take  2-3  elderberries,  1-3  of  apples  peeled 
and  sliced,  4  spoonfuls  sugar,  i  spoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour. 
Season  with  powdered  coriander  seed  to  taste.  Bake  between  crusts. 

SUMMER  MINCED  PIES. — Three  soda  crackers,  i  cup  each  of  mo- 
lasses, vinegar,  butter,  chopped  and  seeded  raisins,  boiling  water 
poured  on  crackers,  2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs  and  flour  to  taste. 

SLICED  SWEET  OR  IRISH  POTATO  PIE. — Line  a  deep  plate  or  dish 
with  a  common  pie  crust  tolerably  thin,  then  put  in  a  full  layer  of 
butter  sprinkled  over  thinly  with  finely  pounded  coriander  seeds  and 
other  spices,  then  put  in  slices  of  potatoes  sprinkled  a  little  with 
spices,  then  another  layer  of  butter,  till  more  than  full ;  pour  over  a 
small  teacupfulof  water  or  cider,  or  less  of  either  and  a  little  brandy, 
then  put  on  a  rich,  thick  pie  crust  well  pasted,  so  as  to  come  off  in 
flakes,  on  the  top  ;  the  edges  should  l>e  removed  by  pressing  them 
against  the  pie  or  dish,  then  pierce  the  top  a  number  of  times  with 
a  fork.  Glaze  with  a  feather  dipped  in  new  milk,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  till  of  a  light  brown. 

COCOANUT  PIE. — One-quarter  Ib  sweet  butter,  1-2  Ib.  powdered 
white  sugar ;  beat  the  butter  and  the  sugar  well  together  until  it  forms 
a  thick  cream,  then  add  4  well  whisked  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
together;  1-2  pint  grated  cocoanut;  i  quart  sweet  milk,  beaten  well 
together;  have  ready  some  nice  puff  paste,  line  your  patty  pans  and 
fill  them  nearly  full  of  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CROQUETTE  OF  FRESH  WALNUTS. — Take  about  60  English  walnuts 
when  they  are  just  ripe  enough  to  leave  thi  shell  by  carefully  cutting 
it  in  two;  then  take  off  the  white  skin  that  covers  the  fruit,  keep 
clean  in  a  cloth,  then  drop  them  in  cold  water,  drain  them  on  a  nap- 
kin, boil  the  desired  quantity  of  sugar  moistened  with  some  cold 
water,  and  boil  it  until  it  becomes  a  little  brittle  when  dropped  in 
cold  water,  then,  with  the  kernels  of  the  walnuts  dipped  from  wooden 
tongs  (for  the  purpose)  into  the  candy,  then  place  the  walnut  kernels 
so  dipped  into  a  mould  slightly  oiled,  when  the  whole  has  been  used 
and  the  kernels  are  cool  and  hard,  fill  the  mould  with  whipped  cream 
seasoned  with  a  little  brandy  and  sugar,  and  place  some  strawberries 
on  the  top  and  serve. 

Note. — Almonds,  oranges  and  other  fruits  may  be  treated  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  walnuts,  and  also  green  almonds. 

COCOANUT  PIES. — One  cup  rasped  cocoanut  soaked  in  milk,  3  pow-? 


MT5AT  AND  SAVORY  PIES.  3OT 

dered  crackers  or  2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  3  eggs,  a  little  butter 
and  salt,  add  sugar  if  wanted ;  grated  rind  of  lemon  improves.  Bake 
without  upper  crust. 

CREAM  PIE. — A  rich  crust,  4  eggs,  i  cup  each  of  sugar  and  flour, 
2  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder,  i  pint  of  cream  or  milk,  2  eggs,  i 
cup  of  sugar,  2  heaped  teaspoonfuls  corn  starch.  Crust  is  to  be 
baked  in  round  tins.  This  makes  3  layers.  When  cold  spread 
cream  between  as  you  do  in  jelly  cake.  The  cream  should  be  cooked 
by  itself. — Mrs.  L.  M.  Kellogg. 

LEMON  CREAM  PIES — (Mrs.  Lane,  Panama).— To  3  spoonfuls 
moistened  corn  starch,  pour  i  quart  warm  water  and  add  3  cups  fine 
white  sugar,  the  juice  and  peel  of  3  lemons,  3  beaten  eggs,  a  little 
salt.  Bake  between  2  rich  pie  crusts. 

RICE  PIE — (Mrs.  Ewing). — 'Two  pints  of  milk  boiled,  i  small  tea- 
cup of  rice  flour  mixed  in  very  little  cold  water ;  add  to  the  boiling 
milk  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  When  cold  add  5  well-beaten  eggs, 
sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CUSTARD  PIE. — Beat  7  eggs,  sweeten  a  quart  of  milk  that  has 
been  boiled  and  cooled.  A  stick  of  cinnamon  or  a  bit  of  lemon 
peel  should  be  boiled  in  it.  Sprinkle  in  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  add 
the  eggs  and  a  grated  nutmeg,  stirring  the  whole  together.  Line 
two  deep  plates  with  good  paste ;  set  them  in  the  oven  3  min- 
utes to  harden  the  crust,  then  pour  in  the  custard  and  bake  20 
minutes. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE  (Southern.) — Wash,  peel  and  boil  your  pota- 
toes till  soft,  and  strain  them;  to  each  Ib.  allow  12  oz.  sugar,  8 
oz.  butter,  2  cups  of  cream  or  new  milk,  6  eggs  well  beaten, 
some  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Beat  all  thoroughly  till  smooth,  then 
stir  in  a  wineglass  of  brandy.  Line  your  plate  or  dish  with  a 
crust  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  half  done,  then  when  cold 
pour  on  the  potatoes  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Serve  cold. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE  (grated). — Boil  the  potatoes,  when  perfectly 
cold  grate  them,  then  rub  in  a  large  cup  of  sugar,  2  large  spoon- 
fuls of  butter ;  beat  to  a  cream ;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground 
cinnamon,  1-2  grated  nutmeg,  i  pinch  of  salt,  the  juice  and  the 
yellow  grated  off  of  a  lemon,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten.  Add 
gradually  to  the  grated  potato,  then  add  the  whites  beaten  solid ; 
2  teaspoonfuls  cream  or  rich  milk  ;  pour  into  a  pie  dish  lined  with  a 
short  crust  and  bake.  Eaten  cold. 

GEORGIA.  SWEET  POTATO  PIE. — Boil  2  pounds  of  sweet  potatoes 
soft,  skin  and  mash  them  smoothly,  add  i  quart  of  new  sweet  milk, 
5  eggs  and  a  teacupful  of  butter;  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste; 
last,  stir  in  one  cup  of  good  whiskey  and  2  cups  of  sugar ;  this  makes 
a  soft  batter.  Have  i  rich  under-crust  made  and  fill  with  the  batter. 
Bake  a  rich  brown. 


3O2  MEAT  AND  SAVORY    PIES. 


A  RICH  VEAL  PIE. — Cut  steaks  from  a  neck  or  breast  of  veal, 
season  them  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg  and  a  very  little  clove  in  pow- 
der. Slice  2  sweet  breads  and  season  them  in  the  same  manner  ;  lay 
a  puff  paste  on  the  ledge  of  the  dish,  then  put  the  meat,  yolks  of 
hard  eggs,  the  sweet  bread  and  some  oysters  up  to  the  top  of  the 
dish.  Lay  over  the  whole  some  very  thin  slices  of  ham  or  middlings, 
and  fill  up  the  dish  with  water  ;  cover,  and  when  it  is  taken  out  of 
the  oven  pour  in  at  the  top  through  a  funnel  a  few  spoonfuls  of  good 
veal  gravy  and  some  cream  to  fill  up,  but  first  boil  it  up  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour,  add  truffles,  &c.,  if  approved,  in  pieces,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  pie ;  place  them  in  first,  then  some  artichoke  bot- 
toms, cut  in  4  pieces  each,  next  some  tops  of  asparagus,  parsley, 
onions,  mushrooms,  yolks  of  hard  eggs  and  fine  meat  balls.  Steam 
the  whole  with  pepper  and  salt ;  put  in  plenty  of  water,  cover  the 
pie  and  bake  it  2  hours.  On  taking  it  out  pour  in  some  rich  veal 
gravy  thickened  with  cream  and  flour. 

VEAL  (or  chicken)  AND  PARSLEY  PIE. — Cut  some  slices  from  the 
leg  or  neck  of  veal ;  if  the  leg,  from  the  knuckle,  season  with  salt, 
scald  some  parsley  that  is  picked  from  the  steins  and  squeeze  it  dry, 
cut  it  a  little  and  lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  put  the  meat, 
and  so  on,  in  layers.  Fill  the  dish  with  new  milk,  but  not  so  high 
as  to  touch  the  crust.  Cover  it,  and  when  baked  pour  out  a  lit- 
tle of  the  milk  and  put  in  1-2  pint  of  good  scalded  cream.  Chicken 
may  be  cut  up,  skinned  and  made  in  the  same  way. 

HERRING  AND  LEEK  PIE. — Clean  and  skin  the  white  part  of 
some  large  leeks,  scald  in  milk  and  water  and  put  them  in  layers 
into  a  dish,  and  between  the  layers  2  or  3  salted  herring  or  sal- 
mon in  pieces;  1-2  pound  which  has  been  soaked  for  24  hours 
before ;  cover  the  whole  with  a  good  plain  crust.  When  the  pie 
is  taken  out  of  the  oven  lift  up  the  side  crust  with  a  knife  and 
empty  out  all  the  liquor,  then  pour  in  1-2  pint  scalded  cream. 

VEAL  PATTIES. — Mince  some  veal  that  is  not  quite  done  with  a 
little  barley,  lemon  peel,  a  scrape  of  nutmeg  and  a  bit  of  salt; 
add  a  little  cream  and  gravy ;  first  moisten  the  meat,  and  if  there  is 
any  ham  scrape  a  little  and  add  to  it.  Do  not  warm  it  till  the  patties 
are  baked. 

CRITTEN  OR  CRACKLING  PIE.— When  a  bacon  hog  is  killed  the  in- 
ward fat  is  melted  for  lard  and  strained  off.  What  remains  in  the 
strainer  is  called  critten  or  crackling,  to  i  pound  of  which  add  i  Ib. 
of  currants  and  1-2  pound  of  plums,  the  latte"  stoned  and  chopped ; 
x  pound  of  apples  chopped  fine,  i  pound  c»  ambs  of  bread,  the  yolks 


MEAT  AND  SAVORY  PIES.  303 

of  2  or  3  eggs,  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel,  i  ounce  each,  a  lit- 
tle ginger,  nutmeg  and  allspice.  Some  add  to  this  the  lean  meat  of 
the  hog  chopped  fine  or  pounded.  As  it  is  but  a  homely  dish  a 
plain  crust  will  suffice  made  of  lard  or  drippings,  with  the  addition 
of  a  little  butter.  However  plain  the  ingredients  a  good  cook  will 
make  it  light  and  well  flavored.  The  crust  should  be  raised  and  is 
usually  baked  in  a  pudding  dish ;  if  preferred  may  be  made  in  small 
tins  or  saucers. 

SWEET  BREAD  PIE. — Lay  a  puff  paste  1-2  inch  thick  at  the  bottom 
of  a  dish  and  forcemeat  around  the  sides  ;  then  put  the  batter  in 
a  mould  or  on  a  dish,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  middle  for  sweet  breads, 
or  fragments  of  fine  chopped  chicken.  If  wanted  brown,  bake 
it  in  a  mould ;  when  done  take  out  the  inside  sufficiently  to  admit 
the  ragout 

TOMATO  MEAT  PIE. — Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  with 
stale  bread  crumbs,  then  have  some  cold  mutton  chopped  fine  ;  make 
a  layer  of  this  on  the  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  ripe  tomatoes, 
then  over  this  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  another  of  meat  and  then  a 
layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  then  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  un- 
til the  crust  is  a  beautiful  brown.  The  different  layers  should  be 
seasoned  as  you  make  them  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.  It 
should  be  seasoned  rather  light.  Serve  hot. 

HAM  PIE. — Make  a  crust  the  same  as  for  soda  biscuit,  line  your 
dish,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes  sliced  thin,  pepper  and  salt  and 
a  little  butter,  then  a  layer  of  lean  ham ;  add  considerable  water  and 
you  will  have  an  excellent  pie. 

SEA  PIE. — Put  2  pounds  of  beefsteak  into  a  stew  pan  with  a  little 
celery  chopped  up  or  a  pinch  of  ground  celery  seed,  a  small  onion 
cut  in  slices,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  season  with  pepper 
salt;  put  in  this  6  larks  dressed  for  roasting  them,  make  a  paste  of 
suet  abqutone  inch  thick  and  round  like  the  stew  pan  ;  put  a  cupful 
of  water  in  the  stew  pan  and  cover  the  larks  with  the  paste,  pressing 
it  against  the  sides  of  the  stew  pan ;  simmer  for  i  hour  and  serve  by 
putting  a  knife  round  the  sides  of  the  stew  pan  to  detach  the  paste, 
and  turn  it  over  on  the  dish. 

MUTTON  PIE. — The  remains  of  a  cold  leg  of  mutton,  loin  or  neck, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  2  blades  of  pounded  mace,  i  dessert  spoon- 
ful of  chopped  parsley,  i  teaspoonful  of  minced  savory  herbs  when 
liked,  a  little  minced  onion  or  shalot,  3  or  4  potatoes,  i  teacupful  of 
gravy.  Cold  mutton  may  be  made  into  very  good  pies  if  well 
seasoned  and  mixed  with  a  few  herbs.  If  the  leg  is  used,  cut  it  in 
very  thin  slices  ;  if  of  the  loin  or  neck,  into  thin  cutlets.  Place 
some  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  mace, 
parsley  and  herbs  ;  then  put  a  layer  of  potatoes  sliced,  then  more 


304  MEAT  AND  SAVORY   PIES. 

mutton,  and  so  on,  till  the  dish  is  full ;  add  the  gravy,  cover  with  a 
crust  and  bake  for  i  hour.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

LAMB  PIE. — Make  it  of  the  loin,  neck  or  breast.  The  breast  of 
house  lamb  is  one  of  the  most  delicate  things  that  can  be  eaten. 
It  should  be  lightly  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt ;  the  bone  taken 
out,  but  not  the  gristles.  A  small  quantity  of  jelly  should  be  put  in 
hot,  but  the  pie  should  not  be  eaten  till  cold.  Put  in  two  spoonfuls 
of  water  before  baking.  Grass  lamb  makes  an  excellent  pie,  and 
may  be  either  boned  or  not,  but  not  to  bone  it  is  perhaps  the  best. 
Season  only  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  two  spoonfuls  of  water  and 
as  much  gravy  when  it  comes  from  the  oven.  N.  B. — Meat  pies 
being  fat,  it  is  best  to  let  out  the  gravy  on  one  side  and  put  it  in 
again  by  a  funnel,  at  the  center,  and  a  little  more  may  be  added. 

MEAT  PIES. — It  is  important  to  have  a  hole  in  the  top  crust. 

BONED  BEEFSTEAK  PIE. — Cut  the  skins  from  the  fat  of  rump  steaks, 
beat  them,  put  them  over  the  fire  with  a  little  butter,  pepper,  lemon 
juice  and  shalots  chopped  fine ;  when  half-done,  lay  them  in  a  dish 
till  cold.  Blanch  and  strain  some  oysters  and  preserve  the  liquor ; 
put  a  layer  of  steaks  at  the  bottom  of  the  pie,  another  of  oysters 
over  that,  and  so  on,  alternately.  When  done,  put  in  some  gravy 
with  the  oyster  liquor  and  catsup. 

PODOVIES  OR  BEEF  PATTIES. — Shred  underdone  dressed  beef  with 
a  little  fat,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  shalot  or  onion. 
Make  a  plain  paste,  roll  it  thin,  cut  it  into  shape  like  an  apple  puff; 
fill  it  with  the  mince,  pinch  the  edges  and  fry  them  a  nice  brown. 
The  paste  should  be  made  with  a  little  butter,  eggs  and  milk. 

TURKEY  PATTIES. — Mince  some  of  the  white  part,  and  with  grated 
lemon,  nutmeg  and  salt,  a  very  little  white  pepper,  cream  and  a  very 
little  butter  warmed.  Fill  the  patties. 

SOUTHERN  POTPIE. — Boil  the  backbone  of  a  hog  a  little  ;  then  chop 
it  up,  leaving  two  joints  in  a  piece ;  then  line  a  large  pan  or  Dutch 
oven  with  a  rich  pie  paste  and  put  the  bone  in  with  pepper  and  salt, 
or,  if  the  bone  be  salted,  very  little  is  needed.  Chop  some  pieces 
of  fat,  unsalted  pork,  the  best,  and  put  in.  Skim  the  rich  portion  or 
foam  all  off  of  the  broth  in  which  the  meat  has  been  boi'ed  and 
pour  that  over  the  meat  until  it  is  two-thirds  full ;  then  put  a  short 
paste  cover  over  it.  Make  a  hole  with  your  finger  for  the  soup  to 
come  out  when  it  boils.  Bake  moderately.  When  a  nice  brown 
take  it  up  and  serve  cold  for  dinner.  It  can  be  rewarmed  if  some 
portion  remains  uneaten. 

VEAL  POTPIE — (Rizpah). — Slice  thinly  2  Ibs.  of  veal  and  boil  in 
water  till  tender,  season  and  add  6  potatoes  sliced ;  boil  until  done 
and  pour  into  a  deep  pan  ;  stir  in  2  spoonful  of  flour  and  cover  with 
a  biscuit  crust.  Bake  a  light  brown.  Be  sure  to  have  plenty  gravy 
in  the  pie. 


MEAT  AND  SAVORY  PIES.  305 


CHICKEN  PIE — (Mrs.  B.) — Cut  up  your  chickens  and  season  them 
with  salt,  pepper  and  parsley.  If  they  are  old,  parboil  them  a  few 
minutes  and  save  the  water  to  put  in  the  pie.  Make  a  moderately 
rich  paste  and  cover  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  depth  with  it.  Then 
put  in  alternate  layers  of  chicken,  6  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices, 
butter,  pepper,  celery  and  a  little  flour  from  a  dredging-box.  Fill 
the  dish  2-3  full  of  cold  water  and  add  1-2  cupful  of  cream  or  milk. 
Put  on  a  top  paste  and  the  pie  round  the  edge,  and  make  opening 
in  the  middle  with  a  knife.  It  will  require  i  hour  to  bake.  A  few 
slices  of  lean  bacon  is  an  addition  liked  by  many  persons.  If  oysters 
are  in  season  they  are  nice.  Put  in  alternate  layers  with  the  chicken. 

VIRGINIA  CHICKEN  PUDDING — (Colonial). — Cut  up  two  young 
chickens  as  for  frying.  Season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  buter 
and  an  onion  shred  fine.  Make  a  batter  of  a  quart  of  new  milk,  6 
eggs  well  beaten,  9  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  stir  till  perfectly  smooth. 
It  too  thick,  thin  with  milk.  When  tender,  take  up  the  chicken  from 
the  stewpan,  leaving  out  the  necks  ;  place  the  pieces  in  an  earthen 
dish  ;  pour  over  the  batter  and  bake  till  the  pudding  is  firm.  It 
should  be  eaten  immediately,  as  standing  injures  it,  by  falling  and 
becoming  tough.  A  tureen  of  rich  sauce  should  accompany  it, 
using  as  much  of  the  broth  in  which  the  chicken  was  stewed  as  may 
be  needed  for  the  foundation  of  the  gravy.  Add  catsup  of  any 
kind.  Instead  of  chicken  or  combined  with  chicken,  oysteres,  beef- 
steak, veal  or  any  kind  of  game  may  be  used. 

How  TO  MAKE  A  SOUTHKRN  CHICKEN  PIE. — Cut  up  some  tender, 
fat,  young  chickens  ;  stew  them  slowly  in  water  till  done,  with  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  and  if  liked,  a  bit  of  onion  and  some  thin  slices  of 
sweet  pork  or  bacon  cut  up  in  fillets.  To  make  the  crust  of  the  pie, 
stir  up  flour  and  cold  water  together  with  a  little  salt.  Stand  in  a 
cool  place  and  on  a  marble  board,  if  you  have  one  ;  roll  out  the 
dough  "  as  thin  as  air/'  then  have  some  sweet  butter  and  fresh  mut- 
ton suet  that  has  been  strained  from  the  sediment,  both  perfectly 
cold,  put  the  finger  in  and  fleck  the  dough  all  over  with  dots  of 
butter  and  suet,  roll  it  over  evenly,  and  then  roll  the  dough  out  thin 
again  and  fleck  it  with  bits  of  butter  and  suet  as  before,  up  to  fifteen 
times,  if  you  like  it,  but  once  or  twice  will  do.  Then  make  tlv 
dough  into  oblong  cakes  about  the  size  of  a  large  saucer  and  ' 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  and  sides,  which  should  be  wide  and  <!  ,>, 
then  put  in  your  meet  carefully,  pour  over  plenty  of  the  rich  •  .ivy, 
and  some  more  pieces  of  butter  on  the  top.  The  chicken  -ravy 
should  be  cold,  then  put  on  your  top  crust,  make  a  hole  in  t'ae  top 


306  MEAT  AND   SAVORY  PIES. 

large  enough  to  put  yorfr  finger  in.  When  you  are  going  to  set  the 
table  for  dinner  put  your  pie  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  hasten  the  fire 
a  little,  and  your  pie  will  be  ready.  Serve  hot  in  the  same  dish. 
The  crust  will  be  almost  as  light  as  snow  flakes.  Note. — Handle 
the  dough  as  little  as  possible.  Let  the  wind  blow  on  it  in  a  cool 
place.  Some  dredge  a  little  flour  over  the  flecks  of  butter  and  suet 
each  time  before  turning  the  dough  over. 

CHICKEN  PIE. — Cut  up  young  chickens  in  proportion  to  the  large- 
ness of  the  pie  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  mace  and 
nutmeg,  all  in  the  finest  powder  (likewise  a  little  cayenne,  if  approved). 
Put  the  chicken  with  slices  of  ham  or  fresh  gammon  of  bacon,  force 
meat  balls  and  hard  eggs  by  turns  in  layers.  If  it  is  to  be  baked  in 
a  dish,  put  in  a  little  water,  but  none  if  it  be  a  raised  crust.  By  the 
time  time  it  returns  from  the  oven  have  ready  a  gravy  of  knuckle  of 
veal  or  a  bit  of  the  scrag,  with  some  shank  bones  of  mutton  seasoned 
with  herbs,  onions,  mace  and  white  pepper.  ^If  it  is  not  to  be  eaten 
hot,  you  may  add  truffles,  mosels,  mushrooms,  etc.,  but  not,  if  to  be 
eaten  cold.  If  it  is. made  in  a  dish,  put  in  as  much  jelly  as  will  fill 
it;  but  in  raised  crust  the  gravy  must  be  nicely  strained,  and  then 
put  in  cold  as  jelly.  To  make  the  jelly  clear,  you  may  give  it  aboil 
with  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  after  taking  away  the  meat,  and  then 
run  it  through  a  fine  lawn  sieve. 

CHICKEN  PIE — (Mrs.  Hobson,  San  Jose,  Cal.). — Cut  up  the  chicken 
and  parboil  it ;  then  make  a  rich  crust  and  line  the  sides  of  a  bake- 
pan  with  it,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  chicken,  put  in  pieces  of  butter, 
some  pepper,  a  little  salt ;  then  make  some  dumplings  and  drop  a 
layer  of  them  over  the  chicken,  then  add  another  layer  of  chicken, 
etc.,  and  continue  till  the  pan  is  full,  and  let  the  last  layer  be  of 
chicken.  Pour  in  till  nearly  full  some  of  the  liquor  in  which  the 
chicken  was  boiled,  then  put  on  a  top  crust,  make  a  hole  in  it  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  as  the  liquor  boils  down  pour  in  some 
more  of  the  liquor  through  the  hole  in  the  top  by  a  funnel. 

CHICKEN  PIE  WITH  RICE — (Mrs.  B.) — Cut  up  the  desired  number 
of  young  chickens  and  drop  them  into  a  saltish  water  for  30  minutes. 
Have  ready  2  quarts  boiled  rice,  not  steamed,  into  which  stir  11-4 
Ibs.  butter,  i  quart  of  milk,  a  little  salt  and  6  well-beaten  eggs. 
Pour  into  your  baking  dish  1-2  the  quantity  of  this  mixture  and 
a  few  slices  of  ham  in  it,  then  pour  in  the  remainder  of  the  rice  and 
eggs,  and  rub  a  little  flour  and  milk  smoothly  together  and  put  on 
the  top  to  make  it  brown  nicely.  This  pie  is  sufficient  for  twenty 
persons. 

THE  OLD  VIRGINIA  POTPIE— (Colonial). — This  old-fashioned  and 
incomparable  pie  is  best  made  in  a  deep  Dutch  oven,  whether  large 
or  small,  to  suit  the  number  of  guests  or  persons  expected  to  par* 


MEAT   AND  SAVORY  PIES.  307 

V 

take  of  it.  Line  the  sides  of  the  oven  with  the  rich  pie  paste,  which 
should  be  1-2  inch  thick  ;  then  lay  the  chicken,  backbone  or  spare- 
ribs  chopped  in  joints  2  inches  long,  or  all  may  be  used  together, 
chicken,  etc.,  which  should  have  been  previously  parboiled  in  saltish 
water  till  1-2  done.  When  this  is  done  sprinkle  over  the  meat  some 
pepper  and  bits  of  sweet  butter,  then  a  layer  of  very  thinly  sliced 
Irish  potatoes,  some  pork  chopped  very  finely,  an  onion  or  two  in 
slices,  and  some  add  a  few  fresh  oysters  or  mushrooms,  then  potato 
dumplings  made  according  to  the  recipe  given  for  dumplings  for 
chicken  pie;  but  these  form  modern  additions  to  the  time-honored 
and  matchless  potpie  of  our  revolutionary  sires,  and  was  doubtless 
often  eaten  in  the  White  House  in  the  days  of  our  first  Presidents. 
It  is  a  homely  dish,  but  a  very  appetizing  one;  but  no  housekeeper 
should  be  at  a  loss  how  to  make  it.  When  the  meat  and  layers  of 
the  other  ingredients  have  filled  the  oven  rather  more,  than  even  full, 
pour  in  the  broth  in  which  the  meat  has  been  boiled,  to  form  the 
gravy,  about  three  parts  full,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  it,  then  lay 
over  the  meat  an  upper  crust  1-4  inch  thick;  making  a  hole  in  it  at 
the  top  to  pour  in  more  broth  when  needed,  through  a  funnel;  then 
put  on  the  oven  lid  moderately  heated,  and  then  put  on  some  burn- 
ing coals  and  bake  a  nice  brown.  When  done  remove  the  upper 
crust  carefully.  Take  up  the  meat  gravy  in  a  bowl  in  order  not  to 
break  the  crust  at  the  sides;  lay  this  crust  on  the  bottom  of  a  hot 
dish,  then  the  meat,  etc.,  on  this,  very  nicely,  then  pour  the  gravy 
over,  then  cover  the  whole  with  the  crust.  Serve  hot. 

STEAK  AND  PLOVER  PIE. — Line  basin  with  paste ;  then  put  in  a 
slice  of  rump  steak  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  over  a  plover 
with  the  bird  inside  and  dressed  as  for  roasting,  another  steak  over 
it,  all  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  only.  Add  a  gill  of  beef  gravy, 
then  cover  with  paste  and  boil  11-2  hours.  The  flavor  of  the  plover 
will  make  the  steak  delicious. 

GREEN  GOOSE  PIE. — Bone  two  young  green  geese  of  good  size, 
but  first  take  away  every  pin-feather  and  singe  them  nicely  ;  wash 
them  clean  and  season  them  high  with  salt,  pepper,  mace  and  al- 
spice  ;  put  one  inside  the  other  and  press  them  as  close  as  you  can, 
drawing  the  legs  inward.  Put  a  good  deal  of  butter  over  them  and 
bake  them  either  with  or  without  crust ;  if  the  latter,  a  cover  to  the 
dish  must  fit  close  to  keep  in  the  steam.  It  will  keep  long. 

PIGEON  PIE. — If  it  be  eaten  hot,  have  a  rich,  flakey  crust;  if  in- 
tended to  be  eaten  cold,  a  thick  crust  is  preferable,  but  should  be 
equally  rich,  or  nearly  so.  Butter  the  dish  and  lay  a  crust  round  the 
sides  and  on  the  edges;  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish  a  fine  beefsteak 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt ;  then  the  birds  rubbed  with  pepper 
and  salt  inside  and  out,  and  a  piece  of  butter  in  each.  (Some  prefer 


308  MEAT  AND   SAVORY  PIES. 

to  add  the  liver  chopped  up  with  parsley.)  Lay  the  breasts  downward, 
to  keep  them  juicy,  a  litttle  ham  is  laid  on  each  pigeon  and  a  hard- 
boiled  egg  between  each  two  ;  but  neither  of  these  is  necessary,  and 
by  some  persons  are  considered  no  improvement.  Putin  half  pint  of 
gravy  or  broth  and  have  ready  a  little  more  to  pour  in  boiling  hot  at 
an  aperture  in  the  top  of  the  pie,  when  it  comes  out  of  the  oven. 
Season  the  gizzards,  and,  if  you  cut  them  off,  two  joints  of  the  pin- 
ions, and  lay  them  in  the  middle  of  the  dish ;  lay  on  the  top  crust 
and  make  a  hole  in  the  center,  wherein  may  be  stuck  some  of  the 
feet  nicely  cleaned.  Wash  the  crust  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well 
beaten.  One  hour  and  a  half  will  bake  a  pigeon  pie,  unless  very 
large  indeed. 

GIBLET  PIE. — After  very  nicely  cleansing  goose  or  duck  giblets 
stew  them  with  a  small  quantity  of  water,  onion,  black  pepper  and  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs  till  nearly  done;  let  them  grow  cold,  and  if  not 
enough  to  fill  the  dish,  lay  a  beef,  veal  or  two  mutton  steaks  at  the 
bottom,  or  more.  Put  the  liquor  of  the  stew  to  bake  with  the  above, 
and  when  the  pie  is  baked  pour  into  it  a  large  teacupful  of  cream. 
Sliced  potatoes  added  toil  eat  extremely  well. 

LOBSTER  PIE. — Boil  2  or  3  small  lobsters,  remove  the  tails,  cut 
them  in  two,  take  out  the  insides,  divide  each  into  4  pieces,  lay  them 
in  a  small  dish,  then  put  in  the  meat  of  the  claws  and  that  which  has 
been  picked  from  the  body,  clear  the  latter  of  the  finny  parts  and 
take  out  the  substance,  beat  the  spawn  in  a  mortar,  do  the  same 
by  the  shells,  set  them  on  to  stew  with  some  water,  2  or  4  spoonfuls 
of  vinegar,  pepper,  salt  and  pounded  mace,  and  add  a  piece  of  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour ;  when  the  goodness  of  the  shell  is  extracted  give 
the  whole  a  good  boiling  and  strain  it  into  the  dish  ;  strew  some 
crumbs  over  it  and  cover  it  with  a  paste.  Bake  it  slowly  and  take 
it  out  as  soon  as  the  crust  is  done. 

OYSTER  PIE. — Take  out  the  liquor  in  opening  the  oysters,  strain, 
beard  and  parboil  the  fish ;  do  the  same  with  sweet  breads,  which 
last  must  be  cut  in  slices  and  disposed  with  oysters  in  layers,  seasoned 
lightly  with  salt  or  not,  pepper  and  mace.  Put  1-2  teacupful  of 
the  liquor  and  as  much  gravy  into  the  dish ;  cover  the  oysters  with 
crust  and  bake  the  pie  in  a  slow  oven.  On  taking  it  out  add  a  cup- 
ful of  cream,  some  nice  oyster  liquor  and  a  cupful  of  white  gravy, 
warm,  but  not  boiling. 

MINCED  PIE  WITHOUT  MEAT  OR  APPLES. — One  teacup  seeded  raisins, 
i  teaspoonful  molasses,  i  teacup  sugar,  i  teacup  water,  1-2  teacup 
cider  vinegar,  1-2  teacup  melted  butter,  3  soda  crackers  rolled,  1-2 
teaspoonful  cloves,  i  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

MINCED  PIES. — Boil  4  Ibs.  lean  beef  and  chop  it  fine.  Pick  and 
chop  3  Ibs.  suet,  wash  2  Ibs.  currants,  i  of  raisins,  grate  the  peel  of 


MEAT  AND    SAVORY  PIES. 


309 


2  lemons  and  add  the  juice;  i  oz.  sliced  citron,  12  large  apples 
chopped  fine.  Mix  these  ingredients  with  3  Ibs.  sugar,  2  gills  wine 
and  2  gills  brandy,  a  little  sweet  cider  and  nutmeg,  mace,  spice  and 
cloves.  Bake  in  a  puff  paste  between  2  crusts. 

MINCED  PIES—  (Mrs.  Lane,  Panama). — Seven  cracker  soaked  in  2 
cups  of  boiling  water,  i  cup  of  vinegar,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
2  lemons,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  molasses  or  honey,  t  cup  melted  but- 
ter, with  salt  and  spice  to  taste. 

MINCED  PIES  \\TIHOUT  MEAT.— Of  the  best  apples,  6  Ibs.  pared, 
cored  and  minced ;  of  fresh  suet  and  raisins  stoned,  each  3  Ibs. ;  like- 
wise minced ;  to  these  add  of  mace  and  cinnamon  1-4  oz.  each 
and  8  cloves  in  finest  powder ;  3  Ibs.  of  the  finest  white  sugar ;  i 
spoonful  salt,  the  rinds  of  4  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  1-2  pint  of  port, 
the  same  of  brandy.  Minced  well  and  put  in  a  deep  pan.  Have 
ready  washed  and  dried  currants,  4  Ibs.,  and  add  as  you  make  the 
pies  some  candied  fruit. 

LEMON  MINCED  PIE. — Squeeze  a  large  lemon,  boil  the  rind  till  ten- 
der enough  to  beat  to  a  mash,  add  to  it  3  large  apples  and 
4  oz.  suet,  1-2  Ib.  currants,  4  oz  sugar;  putinthe  juice  of  the  lemon 
and  candied  fruit  as  for  other  pies.  Make  a  short  crust  and  fill  the 
patty  pans  as  usual 

MINCED  PIES — (Mrs.  Washington,  of  Virginia). — Two  Ibs  finely 
chopped  round  of  beef,  i  Ib.  suet  nicely  sliced,  i  dozen  apples  pared 
and  chopped  small,  2  Ibs.  raisins  or  currants  stoned  and  floured,  3-4 
Ib.  sugar  with  nutmeg,  mace  and  cloves.  Dried  cherries  will  do. 
Mix  all  together.  Stir  in  sweet  cider,  French  or  peach  brandy.  Slice 
citron  or  orange  peel.  Some  use  both  cider  and  brandy — i  quarto 
brandy. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIES  FOR  SUMMER  USE. — It  is  made  by  mixing  one 
cup  each  of  sugar  and  molasses  and  i  1-2  cup  bread  crumbs,  i  cup 
good  cider  vinegar,  4  cups  water,  3  eggs.  Add  i  cup  raisins,  i  oz. 
e.xr.h  of  ground  cloves  and  soda.  Enough  to  make  3  pies. 

APPLE  PIE. — Wipe  the  outside  of  the  fruit,  which  pare  and  core, 
and  with  the  cores  boil  with  a  little  water  till  it  boils  well,  strain 
and  put  in  a  little  sugar  and  a  bit  of  bruised  cinnamon  and  simmer 
again.  In  the  meantime  place  the  apples  in  a  dish,  a  paste  being 
put  around  the  edge  ;  when  one  layer  is  in  sprinkle  1-2  the  sugar  and 
shred  lemon  peel  and  squeeze  some  juice  or  a  glass  of  cider  if  the 
apples  have  lost  their  spirit ;  put  in  the  rest  of  the  apples,  sugar  and 
the  liquor  that  you  have  boiled,  cover  with  paste.  You  may  add 
some  butter  when  cut  if  eaten  hot,  or  put  quince  marmalade,  orange 
paste  or  cloves  to  flavor. 

A  TURN-OVER  APPLE  OR  PEACH  PIE. — Put  the  fruit,  that  is,  apples 
<  r  peaches  pared,  cored  and  cut  up,  in  a  deep  dish,  then  put  a  short 


3 TO  MEAT  AND   SAVORY  PIES. 

crust  over  the  top  and  bake  it  When  done  turn  the  crust  over  on 
a  deep  plate  or  dish.  Mash  the  fruit,  sugar  and  season  to  taste  and 
paste  the  crust  with  it. 

SLICED  APPLE,  PEACH,  APRICOT,  QUINCE  AND  PEAR  PIES. — Are 
made  by  slicing  very  thinly  the  fruit  and  put  them  in  a  deep  pie 
plate  or  dish  lined  with  thin  pie  paste,  over  which  is  pasted  a  layer 
of  butter  in  bits,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  fruit  sprinkled  with  coriander 
seeds  or  any  other  spice  or  spices,  then  a  layer  of  butter  and  a  thin 
sprinkle  of  the  flavoring  lemon  peel,  &c.,  and  then  a  layer  of  fruit, 
and  so  on  till  full,  then  a  cup  of  water  thick  with  sugar,  so  as  to  form 
a  syrup,  which  should  be  poured  in.  Some  persons  put  the  sugar 
between  each  layer  and  put  all  the  seasoning  on  the  top ;  then  put  a 
transparent  puff  paste,  pinch  off,  perforate  and  bake  50  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  It  is  best  for  the  fruit  to  be  mellow  and  juicy. 

GREEN  APPLES,  GOOSEBERRIES,  CURRANTS  AND  APRICOTS  should 
be  boiled  with  sugar  before  making  pies  of  them.  The  greener  they 
are  the  more  sugar  they  require.  The  apricots  should  not  be  larger 
than  a  full-sized  gooseberry,  otherwise  the  skins  become  bitter  and 
the  stones  hard.  When  cooking  flavor  to  suit  with  coriander,  any 
spices  approved,  lemon  or  orange  peel  grated.  When  put  in  the 
pie  dish  put  butter  in  bits,  and  finely  chopped  citron,  if  conven- 
ient, and  some  currants  or  raspberries  or  thin  jellies,  or  marma- 
lades will  bean  improvement.  They  will  require  but  little  baking, 
as  do  all  pies  made  of  cooked  fruits. 

APPLE  PIE. — For  3  pies  pare  1 2  good-sized  apples  and  slice  them 
thin,  then  prepare. the  crust  and  place  it  in  the  pans;  lay  the  apples 
in  and  sprinkle  over  them  very  neatly  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  ; 
to  each  pie  i  gill  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  hick- 
ory nut  and  i  gill  of  cold  water.  Spice  to  taste  ;  add  the  top  crust  and 
bake.  Use  nutmeg,  allspice  or  cinnamon,  as  your  taste  fancies,  or 
sprinkle  over  1-2  teaspoonful  of  coriander  seeds.  Select  good  cook- 
ing apples. 

N.  B.  As  soon  as  pies  are  baked  they  should  have  a  little  water 
shaken  over  them  and  white  sugar  grated  on  immediately. 

HOT  APPLE  PIE. — Make  with  the  fruit ;  sugar  and  cloves,  and  put 
a  bit  of  butter  in  when  cut  open. 

APPLE  PIE,  &c. — This  is  boiled  between  crusts,  which  should  be 
rich,  the  under  one  thinner  and  the  upper  one  thicker  and  richer. 
Peel,  core  and  slice  your  apples,  place  them  on  the  under  crust  on 
the  pie  plate,  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  butter  and  spice  ;  then  another 
layer  of  apples,  and  so  repeat  until  the  fruit  is  used  ;  a  layer  of  su- 
gar and  butter  and  grated  lemon  peel ;  a  sprinkle  of  cinnamon  the 
last,  then  put  on  the  upper  crust,  pick  it  with  a  fork  and  bake  slowly. 

APPLE  PIE. — Take  a  sufficient  number  of  apples  to  make  a  pie 


MEAT  AND  SAVORY  PIES. 

of  the  required  size,  pare,  core  and  slice  them  ;  put  a  teacup  in  the 
middle  of  your  dish,  then  allow  i  pinch  of  cinnamon,  a  small  piece 
of  chopped  lemon  peel  and  cloves  to  every  3.apples  and  sweeten  to 
taste.  Bake. 

APPLE  PIE. — After  paring,  dividing  and  coring  the  desired  quan- 
tity of  apples,  fill  a  dish,  placing  a  small  teacup  in  the  center,  if  you 
wish,  then  to  every  3  apples  allow  i  clove,  a  pinch  of  cinnamon,  a 
little  beaten  lemon  peel  and  sugar  to  suit  and  bake.  A  little  whipped 
cream  should  be  placed  on  the  top  for  variety  sake. 

WHOLE  PEACH  PIE. — Take  small,  plump,  not  quite  ripe  peaches, 
peel  them  without  cutting  them,  then  line  a  dish  with  puff  paste, 
lay  the  fruit  close  together,  put  in  a  little  water  for  a  medium-sized 
pie,  strew  over  a  teacup  of  sugar,  dredge  a  little  flour  over,  grate  1-2 
nutmeg  or  more,  a  large  pinch  of  salt,  put  the  crust  on,  cut  a  slit  in 
the  center.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

CHERRY,  DAMSON,  Rhubarb,  Gooseberry,  Currant,  Plum,  Apple, 
Whortleberry,  Raspberry,  Pear,  Quince,  Mulberry,  Currant,  Cran- 
berry, Dewberry  and  Blackberry  pies  may  all  be  made  in  the  same 
way  in  cold  weather. 

CHERRY  PIE. — Should  have  4  mixture  of  other  fruit ;  currants  or 
raspberries  or  both. 

BLACKBERRY,  RASPBERRY  AND  WHORTLEBERRY  PIES. — Are  made 
by  stewing  the  fruit  in  a  preserving  pan  with  sugar  and  spices  to  taste. 
When  the  fruit  is  put  in  the  dish  lined  with  paste  drop  over  it  bits 
of  butter  and  a  little  citron  chopped  finely,  if  you  have  it,  then 
put  on  the  top  crust  made  richly,  perforate,  glaze  and  bake  it  till 
of  a  light  brown.  Eaten  cold  with  ice-cold  milk  or  custard.  Damson 
and  plum  pies  are  made  in  this  way. 

LKMON  PIKS  — (Extra  nice.) — Ten  tablespoons  sugar,  yolks  of 
5  ^ggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch  in  i  cup  of  milk,  i  large  spoon- 
ful of  butter,  2  grated  lemons  put  in  the  crust  and  baked,  then 
beat  the  whites  well,  add  5  spoonfuls  white  sugar,  put  on  top  of  the 
pie.  Bake  in  the  oven  5  minutes.  This  will  make  two  beautiful 
pies. 

BUTTER  PIE. — Cover  a  pie  plate  with  a  crust,  as  for  custard  pie, 
take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2-3  cup  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  cream,  sweet  and  thick,  i  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir  but- 
ter, flour  and  sugar  together,  then  stir  in  the  cream,  pour  in  the 
pie  plates.  Bake  until  brown. — Mrs.  Arnold. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. — Take  the^pumpkin  which  has  stewed  down  to 
form  a  thick  mash,  put  it  in  a  bowl  with  milk  and  eggs  beaten  up, 
and  stir  it  well  until  very  thick.  (The  pumpkin  here  being  strained 
through  a  colander  or  hair  sieve.)  For  a  family  pie  put  3  eggs  to  i 
quart  of  milk.  The  more  eggs  the  better  the  pie,  and  if  you  wish 


MEAT  AND  SAVORY  PIES. 

it  richer  make  it  thinner  and  add  sweet  cream  and  2  eggs  more ;  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  sifted  cinnamon  and  I  of  powdered  ginger,  but  all- 
spice may  be  used  or  any  other  spices  that  may  be  prepared.  The 
peel  of  lemon  or  orange  gives  it  a  pleasant  flavor.  Some  put  i  egg 
to  a  gill  of  cream.  Bake  i  hour  in  deep  plates  or  shallow  dishes  in 
a  hot  oven. 

SQUASH  PIE. — (Liverpool  Steamer's  recipe.) — Two  "quarts  each  of 
sifted  squash  and  new  milk,  6  well  beaten  eggs,  stir  well,  flavor  wifrv 
nutmeg  or  lemon  to  the  taste. 

SQUASH  PIE. — Pare  the  squash  and  remove  the  seeds,  stew  it  in  as 
little  water  as  possible  till  soft,  then  squeeze  through  a  colander,  then 
stir  as  much  sweet  milk  into  the  squash  so  as  to  make  it  thick  as 
batter ;  grated  ginger,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Sweeten  with  sugar, 
add  2  or  3  eggs  well  whisked  for  each  quart  of  milk  used.  Line 
your  pie  plates  with  crust  and  fill  them  with  the  mixture.  Bake  one 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

LEMON  PIE. — The  grated  peel  and  juice  of  3  lemons,  i  cup  of 
sugar,  i  of  molasses,  i  cup  of  chopped  raisins  or  currants  boiled,  i 
cup  of  water  and  two  eggs.  Bake  with  three  crusts. — Mrs.  Lane, 
Panama. 

LEMON  PIE. — Mrs.  R's. — Three  lemons,  3  cups  sugar  and  a  des- 
sert spoonful  of  flour;  rinds  of  i  1-2  lemons.  Beat  the  sugar  and 
eggs  together,  grate  the  lemon  rinds,  then  add  the  flour  and  i  cup  of 
water.  Bake. 

LEMON  PIE. — One  chopped  lemon,  i  cup  sugar,  i  1-2  crackers 
crumbled  fine,  3  tablespoonfuls  hot  water  for  i  pie.  Baked  with  2 
crusts. 

LEMON  PIE  WITH  3  CRUSTS. — A  layer  of  crust,  a  layer  of  lemon 
sliced  fine,  a  little  sugar,  a  layer  of  crust  again,  and  sugar  and  lemon 
again,  then  the  upper  crust. 

LEMON  PIE. — Take  the  juice  and  rind  of  i  lemon,  grate  the  rind 
and  put  the  juice  of  the  lemon  in  a  pint  of  hot  water,  thicken  with 
com  starch.  Upper  and  lower  crust.  One  cup  of  sugar  to  each 
lemon,  and  butter  as  large  as  an  English  walnut. — Mrs.  L.  M.  Kel- 
logg- 

IMITATION  OF  LEMON  PIE. — Pare  and  boil  a  turnip  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  tartaric  acid  and  a  cup  of  sugar.  Season  and  bake  as 
apple  pie. 

LEMON  PIE. — (Annie's.) — Bake  your  c/usts  in  a  tin  pie  plate,  then 
make  the  filling  with  i  large  lemon  squeezed  or  juice,  throw  the  peel 
in  water,  then  grate  it.  Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  some  butter,  a  lit- 
tle flour,  2  coffee  cups  of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  i  cup  of  cream,  mix 
all  till  smooth,  then  pour  over  the  cold  crust  and  bake  till  set.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  solid  froth,  take  up  the  pie  again,  and  when  cold  put 


MEAT  AND  SAVORY  PIES.  313 

on  the  beaten  whites  and  set  it  a  moment  in  the  oven.  Eat  cold.  If 
wished,  more  flour  or  corn  starch  and  cream  or  milk  may  be  added. 
Il  will  be  enough  for  2  or  3  pies.  Delicious.  * 

LKMON  PIE. — Six  eggs,  whites  separate,  i  pint  of  milk,  1-4  Ib.  of 
butter,  i-2  pound  of  sugar,  the  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons.  Beat  the 
sugar  and  butter  together,  and  squeeze  the  juice  and  grate  the  rind 
of  the  lemons  in  the  butter  and  sugar  ;  stir  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
and  last  of  all  put  in  the  whites  and  mix  well.  Bake  like  custard 
pies. 

ANOTHER  WAY — LEMON  PIE. — Line  a  deep  plate  with  paste  as  in 
making  a  custard;  to  fill  it  secure  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beat  to  a 
froth,  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  sugar;  pour  over  the  custard 
when  done  and  brown  lightly. 

LEMON  RAISIN  PIE. — One  cup  each  of  sugar,  chopped  and  seeded 
raisins  and  water,  i  lemon  chopped  fine.  Boil  for  3-4  hour  in  a 
pudding  bag. 

LEMON  PIE. — One  lemon,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups 
of  boiling  water,  two  tablespoonsfuls  of  corn  starch ;  mix  corn 
starch  and  sugar,  dry  and  pour  on  boiling  water,  then  add  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  lemon,  yolk  of  egg  and  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Bake  same  as  custard  on  crust. — Business  Women's  Home,  N.  Y.  C. 

A  FINE  FISH  PIE. — Boil  2  pounds  of  small  eels,  cut  the  fins  off 
close,  pick  off  the  flesh  and  put  the  bones  with  mace,  pepper,  salt 
and  a  sliced  onion  into  the  liquor,  boil  the  whole  till  rich  and  then 
strain  it.  Make  forcemeat  of  the  flesh,  a  sprot  or  herring,  parsley, 
lemon  peel,  salt,  pepper,  crumbs,  i  cup  of  butter  warmed.  Lay  all 
this  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Take  the  flesh  of  some  nice  fish, 
small  cod  or  trout  and  lay  it  on  the  forcemeat  after  rubbing  in  salt 
and  pepper ;  pour  the  gravy  over  the  pie  and  bake  it.  The  fins  and 
skins  must  be  carefully  removed. 

EEL  PIE. — Wash  and  trim  them  well,  cut  them  in  pieces  of  three 
inches  in  length,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  fill  the  dish,  omit- 
ting the  heads  and  tails;  pour  in  a  glass  of  water  or  veal  broth, 
cover  it  with  paste,  mix  the  same  with  a  brush  dipped  in  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  ornament  the  pie  with  some  paste,  bake  it  an  hour,  and  when 
clone  pour  in  sauce  made  as  follows:  The  trimmings  boiled  in  1-2 
pint  of  veal  gravy  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice  and  thicken  with  flour  and  water  ;  strain  it  through  a 
fine  sieve  and  let  it  be  boiling  hot  when  put  into  the  pie. 

SAVOY  PIE. — Scald  and  remove  the  inner  portions  of  the  fish  ; 
when  well  washed  and  dried  make  a  forcemeat  as  follows :  Take  the 
flesh  of  eels,  cut  small,  some  grated  bread,  2  buttered  eggs,  a  her- 
ring cut  up,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  mix  the  whole 
together  and  put  some  into  the  perch,  leaving  the  rest  for  balls,  then 


314  MEAT  AND  SAVORY  PIES. 

lay  the  fish  in  the  dish,  add  a  little  beaten  mace,  some  butter  and 
1-2  pint  of  claret;  cover  the  pie  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SALMON  PIE. — About  4  pounds  are  required.  Cut  into  thin  slices 
separately  with  peppei*,  salt  and  a  very  little  mace.  Pound  a  pint  of 
shrimps  with  an  ounce  of  butter  and  mould  into  small  balls.  Mix 
with  a  piece  of  salmon.  Boil  down  the  bones  and  skin  of  the  fish 
into  a  jelly  and  fill  up  the  dish.  Cover  with  good  paste  and  bake  an 
hour. 

MOUNTAIN  TROUT  PIE. — Wash  and  prepare  a  large  mountain 
trout,  then  take  an  eel  and  boil  it  till  nearly  tender,  pick  off  the  meat 
and  mince  it  fine  with  the  same  quantity  of  crumbs  of  bread,  some 
sweet  herbs,  lemon  peel  cut  small,  pepper,  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  a 
herring,  1-2  pint  of  oysters  par-boiled  and  chopped  fine  and  the 
yolks  of  3  hard  eggs  cut  small.  Roll  this  mixture  with  1-4  pound 
of  butter  and  fill  the  trout.  Cover  the  dish  with  a  crust  and  lay  the 
fish  therein.  Save  the  liquor  in  which  the  eel  was  boiled,  put  the 
bones  into  it,  and  boil  the  whole  with  mace,  whole  pepper,  i  onion 
(sweet),  i  herring  or  spot,  till  reduced  to  1-2  pint.  Strain  it  and  add 
i -4  pint  of  white  wine  and  a  piece  of  butter  mixed  with  flour.  Boil 
this  and  pour  it  into  the  pie,  put  on  the  cover  and  bake  it  i  hour  in 
a  quick  oven.  Rock  fish,  soles  and  halibut  may  be  done  in  the  same 
manner,  only  using  port  wine  instead  of  white  wine  or  claret. 

FISH  PIES  can  be  made  like  the  Old  Virginia  pot  pie.  They  are 
very  good.  Only  large  fish  are  used. 

FISH  PIE. — Boil  a  large  Rock  fish,  pick  it  up,  add  to  it  3  eggs,  3 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  i  of  flour  and  make  it  into  a  batter  with  milk  ; 
add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  between  crusts,  or  one,  in  a 
pan. 

GAME  PIE,  FLY  AWAY. — (Liverpool  and  Steamer  Cook) — Make 
your  game  pie  in  a  mould  for  the  purpose ;  with  a  mould  also  for  the 
purpose  covered  with  paste  and  baked  with  the  pie ;  then  over  the 
cold  pies  cut  white  paper  to  fit  the  top  of  the  pie ;  several  thicknesses 
over  it,  then  put  in  some  live  birds  under  the  top  standing  on  the 
white  paper.  Persons  not  knowing  the  secret  will  hear  the  chirping 
and  twitting  of  the  birds  and  not  know  where  they  are.  When  the 
dish  is  to  be  help  the  waiter  will  remove  the  top  and  the  birds  fly 
away.  The  papers  removed  .  with  the  top  at  once  and  the  pie 
served.  To  some  it  may  be  amusing. 

SQUAB  PIE. — Cut  apples  as  for  other  pies  and  lay  them  in  rows 
with  mutton  chops,  chopped  onions  and  sprinkle  it  among  them  and 
some  butter  with  the  squabs  cut  in  pieces. 

SQUAB  PIE— A  NEW  HAMPSHIRE  WAY.— Take  12  nicely  cleaned 
squabs,  then  mix  up  to  a  thick  paste  6  heaped  teaspoonfuls  each  of 
sweet  fresh  butter  and  flour,  then  into  each  bird  put  half  a  teaspoon- 


MEAT  AND    SAVORY  PIES.  315 

ful  of  the  mixture,  then  place  the  birds  into  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle 
over  them  salt  and  pepper  to  suit,  then  have  ready  a  nice  rich  and 
thick  pie  crust  and  put  over  and  rather  slowly  bake  a  nice  brown. 
Then  cut  the  crust  in  slices  with  long  corners  and  turn  the  underside 
upon  a  plate  and  on  each  slice  place  one  of  the  birds  for  each  per- 
son (with  a  spoon),  and  some  of  the  gravy.  All  should  be  served 
hot. 

NOTE. — Other  birds  and  most  pies  can  be  made  in  the  same  way, 
only  more  butter. 

LEMON  Pi R— Six  lemons  grated,  8  eggs,  2  coffee  cups  of  white 
sugar ;  beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  reserving  the  whites  of  2  Then 
mix  and  stir  all  together  till  perfectly  smooth  ;  put  the  mixture  on  a 
crust ;  then  beat  the  2  whites  to  a  solid  foam  and  put  it  on  the  top 
for  frosting  and  bake  a  very  delicate  brown. 

ORANGE  PIES  are  made  in  the  same  manner,  using  the  best  white 
sugar.  No  flavoring  is  required  for  either. 

ACID  PIE — (Bingham). — One  cup  soft  bread  or  crackers,  r  cup 
sugar,  2  cups  water,  a  little  lemon,  i  egg,  i  teaspoonful  tartaric  acid. 
Bake  on  one  crust.  N.  B. — The  French  use  a  great  deal  of  butter 
in  cooking. 

VINEGAR  PiE;  — A  cupful  each  of  good  fruit  vinegar  and  sugar  ; 
boil  together  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  let  it  cool ;  add  i  or  2  well- 
beaten  eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Bake  between  2  crusts. 
If  the  vinegar  is  very  strong  use  1-2  cup  of  vinegar  and  1-2  cupful 
water.  Flavor  to  taste. 

SLICED  POTATO  PIES — (A  Southern  Dessert). — For  this  take  a 
deep  soup  plate  to  bake  it  in.  Boil  or  bake  medium-sized  sweet  po- 
tatoes not  quite  done;  yams  are consideree  the  best.  Line  the  plate 
with  a  rich  pie  paste;  slice  the  potatoes  in  thin,  long  chips  and  place 
a  layer  at  the  bottom  of  the  plate,  over  this  spread  a  thick  layer  of 
nice  brown  sugar,  over  this  place  thin  slices  of  butter  or  in  slugs  and 
sprinkle  with  flour,  seasoning  with  spices  to  taste.  A  large  teaspoon- 
ful each  of  butter  and  flour  will  be  sufficient  for  one  pie.  Put  on 
another  layer  of  potatoes  heaped  a  litttle  in  the  middle,  so  as  to  give 
it  a  swell  in  the  center.  Mix  together  equal  quantities  of  the  best 
wine  (California  will  do)  and  water,  or  sweet  cider,  or  vinegar 
nnd  water,  or  a  little  brandy  diluted  with  water.  Pour  in  enough  to 
half-fill  the  pies,  sprinkle  over  them  a  little  flour  and  place  on  the 
upper  crust,  pinching  the  edges  carefully  together.  Cut  a  hole  in 
the  center  or  stick  with  a  fork  the  upper  crust.  Bake  slowly  for  i 
hour. 

N.  B. — In  making  the  above  pie  I  always  sprinkle  some  finely 
pulverized  spices  that  may  be  prepared  between  each  layer.  Cori- 
»nder  seems  to  be  a  suitable  spice  for  this  pie. 


316  MEAT  AND  SAVORY  PIES. 

WASHINGTON  PIE  — One  cup  of  sugar,  1-3  of  a  cup  of  butter,  1-2 
cup  uf  s'.veet  milk,  i  1-3  cup  of  flour,  i  egg,  1-2  teaspoonful  soda, 
i  of  cream  of  tartar ;  lemon  flavor ;  grease  2  round  tins  and  put  in 
the  above.  Bake  until  done,  then  put  it  on  a  dinner  plate,  spread 
with  nice  apple  sauce  or  sauce  of  any  kind  ;  then  another  layer  of 
cake  on  top.  It  is  rich  without  same,  but  sauce  improves  it. 

LEMON  CRACKER  PIE. — 2  large  lemon  crackers  or  sea  biscuits,  i 
cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  water,  the  grated  peel  and  juice  of  i  lemon. 
Bake  between  2  crusts. 

MOLASSES  PIE — (Madam  St.  Clair,  Ala.) — Four  eggs  well  beaten,  i 
heaped  tablespoonful  of  butter,  3  cups  of  batter  ;  flavor  with  lemon 
or  any  other  spices.  Bake  on  i  crust. 

MOLASSES  PIE. — Two  cups  of  molasses,  i  of  apple  vinegar,  '3 
heaped  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  or  2  of  corn  starch ;  beat  up  in  a  bowl 
of  cold  water;  add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  stir 
while  boiling  until  it  becomes  a  thick  paste  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg. 
Bake  between  crusts  or  only  on  an  under-crust  baked  a  little  before 
the  mixture  is  spread  over  when  it  is  cold. 

RHUBARB  PIE. — Cut  off  the  skin  from  the  young  green  stalks  and 
cut  them  into  small  pieces  ;  put  the'm  in  the  pie  with  plenty  of  brown 
sugar.  You  can  hardly  put  in  too  much.  Cover  the  pie  and  bake 
like  green  sliced  apple  pie. 

PIE  NICE  AND  HANDY.— Cut  some  light  bread  as  large  as  you 
wish — i  inch  thick  slices — cut  off  the  brown  crust,  put  the  slices  in 
a  dish,  then  a  layer  of  preserved,  stewed  or  raw  mellow  fruit  cut  in 
thin  slices,  then  a  layer  of  bread  slices,  and  then  the  fruit ;  pour  in  a  gill 
of  rich  cream  or  sweet  milk  or  sauce  ;  set  in  the  stove  till  it  gets  hot 
through  and  simmers  a  little,  grate  over  some  nutmeg  or  lemon 
peel. 

NOTE — If  the  fruit  has  been  cooked  there  is  no  need  of  heat- 
ing it. 

R.  R.  PIE— (Mrs.  Belle  Gregg,  Coles  Co.,  111.)  Prepare  the  crust 
as  for  custard  pie  ;  2  cups  pure  cream,  i  tablespoonful  of  flour  ,  peal 
and  core  i  dozen  large  apples  and  one-half  dozen  small  ones, 
boil  the  apples  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  The  apples 
should  be  cut  very  thin,  then  lay  the  crust  in  a  deep  pie 
dish,  and  upon  it  a  layer  of  apples,  then  a  layer  of  sugar  with  a  lit- 
tle grated  lemon  peel ;  mix  cream  and  flour  and  pour  over  the  ap- 
ples and  sugar,  and  continue  this  till  the  dish  is  full;  let  the  apples 
be  the  last  and  topmost  layer.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Set  in  a  cool 
place  to  get  cold.  If  convenient  extract  of  lemon  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  the  peel. 

PARSLKY  PIE. — Lay  a  fowl,  or  a  few  bones  of  the  scrag  of  veal, 
seasoned  into  a  dish,  scald  a  colanderful  of  picked  parsley  in  milk, 


PATTIES.  317 

season  it  and  add  to  it  the  fowl  or  meat  with  a  teacupful  of  any  sort 
of  good  broth  or  weak  gravy.  When  it  is  baked  pour  into  it  1-4 
pint  of  cream  scalded  with  the  size  of  a  walnut  of  butter  and  a  bit 
of  flour.  Shake  it  round  to  mix  with  the  gravy  already  in.  Lettuce, 
white  mustard  leaves  or  spinach  may  be  added  to  the  parsley  and 
scalded  before  put  in. 

ARTICHOKE  PIE.— Boil  12  artichokes,  break  off  the  leaves  and  the 
bottoms,  make  a  good  crust  and  spread  1-4  Ib.  of  butter  over  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  then  place  a  row  of  artichokes,  strew  pepper, 
salt  and  mace  beaten,  cover  them,  then  another  row  of  artichokes, 
and  so  on  alternately.  Boil  1-2  ounce  of  truffles  or  mushrooms  and 
in  small  morsels  scatter  them  over  the  pie,  add  i  gill  of  white  wine, 
then  cover  and  bake  your  pie. 

VEGKTABLE  PIE. — Take  Windsor  beans,  young  carrots,  a  sliced 
turnip,  two  or  three  artichoke  bottoms,  a  small  quantity  of  spinach,  a 
gill  of  green  peas,  and  if  not  objected  to,  an  onion  and  a  small 
bunch  of  parsley;  put  these  into  a  stew  pan  with  1-2  pint  of  cream, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  i  of  pepper  and  stew  for  1-4  hour,  then 
beat  all  together  and  turn  into  a  pie  dish,  adding  2  ounces  of  butter. 
Cover  with  a  thin  puff  paste  and  bake  1-4  hour;  serve  hot.  This  is 
a  good  dish. 

PATTIES. 

PATTIES. — Roll  out  puff  paste  half  inch  thick,  cut  them  with  a 
round  cutter,  the  size  wanted ;  mark  the  top  where  to  be  taken  out ; 
glaze  them  over  with  yolk  of  egg  or  cream,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  done  cut  the  inside  out  and  put  in  patty  meat  as  described 
under  the  different  heads  of  patty  meats.  If  a  top  is  wanted  cut  a 
smaller  size  and  roll  a  little  thiner;  when  baked  take  out  the  bottoms 
and  cover  over  the  other.  Force  meat  for  patties  may  be  prepared 
from  many  different  articles. 

BiiEF  PATTIES. — They  are  made  of  underdone  beef,  chopped  small, 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  shalot  and  onion  ;  a  little  butter, 
cream  or  rich  gravy  may  be  added  at  pleasure. 

TURKEY  PATTIES. — Mince  som,e  of  the  white  meat  and  add  thereto 
grated  lemon  peel,  nutmeg,  salt,  white  pepper,  cream  and  a  little 
butter ;  put  the  whole  over  the  fire  some  time  and  then  make  as  be- 
fore directed. 

LOBSTER  PATTIES. — Take  a  hen  lobster  that  has  been  boiled,  pick 
out  the  meat  from  the  tail  and  claws,  chop  it  fine  and  put  it  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  little  of  the  inside  spawn  pounded  in  a  mortar  till 
perfectly  smooth;  add  thereto  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  1-2  gill  of 
cream  and  the  same  of  veal  jelly,  and  cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  a 


3 1 8  PUFFS  AND  TARTS. 

teaspoonful  of  flour  and  water.  Stew  them  5  minutes  and  make 
your  patties  according  to  the  former  directions. 

SWEET  PATTIES. — Chop  the  meat  of  a  boiled  calf's  foot,  use  the 
liquor  for  jelly  ;  take  2  apples,  i  oz.  of  orange  and  lemon  peel  can- 
died; also  some  fresh  peel  and  juice;  mix  them  with  1-2  nutmeg 
grated,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  spoonful  of  brandy  and  4  oz.  clean 
currants.  Bake  them  in  small  patty  pans. 

PATTIES  RESEMBLING  MINCED  PIES. — Chop  the  kidney  and  fat  of 
cold  veal  and  add  thereto  an  apple,  orange  and  lemon  peel  candied, 
fresh  currants,  a  little  wine,  2  or  3  cloves,  some  brandy  and  water. 
Make  the  patties  and  bake  them. 

FRIED  PATTIES. — Mince  cold  veal  and  oysters,  then  mix  a  few 
crumbs  of  bread,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg  and  lemon  peel,  add  thereto 
the  liquor  of  the  oysters,  warm  the  whole,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  As 
it  cools  get  ready  a  good  puff  paste,  roll  it  thin  and  cut  it  into  square 
pieces,  put  some  of  the  ingredients  between  two  of  them,  twist  up 
the  edges  and  fry  them  brown.  This  is  a  fashionable  dish  wtien 
baked. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. — Roll  out  some  puff  paste  1-4  inch  thick,  cut  it 
into  squares,  sheet  8  or  10  patty  pans  and  put  upon  each  a  small  bit 
of  bread  ;  roll  out  another  layer  of  paste  of  the  same  thickness,  cut 
as  before.  Wet  the  edge  of  the  bottom  of  the  paste  and  lay  on  the 
top,  pare  the  edges  round  and  notch  them  with  the  back  of  the  knife, 
rub  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven 
about  1-4  hour.  When  done  take  a  thin  slice  off  the  top,  and  with 
a  knife  or  spoon  take  out  the  bread  or  paste,  leaving  the  outside  en- 
trre ;  parboil  2  dozen  large  oysters,  strain  them  from  their  liquor, 
wash,  beard  and  cut  them  into  4  large  pieces,  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  i  oz.  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  1-2  gill  of  cream,  some  grated 
lemon  peel  and  the  oyster  liquor  that  has  been  reduced  by  boiling 
to  1-2,  some  cayenne,  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Stir 
the  whole  over  the  fire  5  minutes  and  fill  the  patty  pans. 

LOBSTER  AND  SHRIMP  BOUCHEES. — The  lobsters  and  shrimps  are 
prepared  by  chopping  them  into  dice  and  served  with  or  without 
crust.  When  served  without  paste  covers  sprinkle  some  fine  bread 
crumbs  slightly  over  the  top. 

SOLE  BOUCHEFS  OR  SMALL  OYSTER  PATTIES. — Prepare  as  described 
in  bouchees..  Take  the  fillets  of  large  sole  and  cook  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  some  butter,  salt  and  lemons  cut. 

PUFFS  AND  TAKTS. 

LEMON  PUFFS. — Beat  and  sift  11-4  pound  of  the  best  of  su- 
gar powdered,  grate  the  rind  of  2  lemons  and  mix  the  same  with 


PUFFS  AND  TARTS. 


3*9 


sugar,  then  beat  the  whites  of  3  new-laid  eggs,  add  them  to  the  su- 
gar, and  peel  and  beat  it  for  an  hour ;  make  it  up  into  shape  and 
bake  it  on  oiled  paper  laid  on  tin  plates  in  a  moderate  oven.  The 
paper  must  remain  till  cold.  Oiling  it  will  make  it  come  off  with 
ease. 

ALMOND  PI/FFS. — Blanch  2  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  beat  them 
fine  with  orange  flower  water.  Beat  up  also  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
to  a  froth  and  strew  in  a  little  sifted  sugar;  mix  the  almonds  with 
the  sugar  and  the  eggs  and  add  more  sugar  till  it  is  thick  as  paste. 
Make  it  into  cakes  and  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven. 

RENNET  PUFFS. — Pour  a  little  rennet  into  2  quarts  of  milk,  and 
when  it  is  broken  put  it  into  a  coarse  cloth  to  drain.  Then  rub  the 
curd  through  a  sieve  (hair)  and  put  to  it  4  ounces  of  butter.  10  oz. 
of  bread,  1-2  nutmeg,  a  lemon  grated  and  a  spoonful  of  wine. 
Sweeten  with  sugar  to  your  taste,  rub  your  cups  with  butter  and  put 
them  into  the  oven  for  about  30  minutes. 

APPLE  PUFFS. — Pare  the  apples  and*  either  stew  or  bake  them  ; 
when  cold  mix  the  pulp  with  sugar  and  lemon  peel  chopped  fine, 
taking  but  little  of  the  juice.  Bake  them  in  a  thin  paste  in  a  quick 
oven  for  15  minutes.  Any  kind  of  marmalade  will  make  it  better 
with  a  little  seasoning  of  spice. 

SUGAR  PUFFS. — Beat  the  whites  of  10  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then 
put  them  in  a  marble  mortar  with  as  much  powdered  white  sugar  as 
will  make  it  thick ;  rub  it  well  round,  put  in  a  few  caraway  seeds, 
then  take  a  sheet  of  wafers  and  lay  the  same  on,  each  as  broad  as 
a  gold  dollar  and  as  high  as  you  can.  Put  them  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  1-4  hour. 

CHOCOLATE -PUFFS. — Beat  and  sift  1-2  Ib.  of  the  best  loaf  sugar, 
scrape  into  it  i  ounce  of  chocolate  very  fine  and  mix  the  whole  to- 
gether. Beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth  and  strew  into  it  the 
sugar  and  the  chocolate,  beating  it  till  it  is  as  thick  as  paste,  then 
sugar  the  paper,  drop  them  about  the  size  of  a  dime  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven. 

POTATO  PUFFS  (Aunt  Judy's.)— After  clearing  from  the  gristle  cut 
small  equal  portions  of  cold  meat,  beef  mutton,  veal  and  ham  to- 
gether;  then  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  minced  pickles  if  fancied, 
then  form  a  paste  with  boiled  Irish  potatoes  mashed  and  an  egg ; 
roll  the  paste  out  and  dredge  with  flour ;  cut  round  with  a  saucer, 
put  some  of  the  seasoned  meat  upon  one  half  and  fold  the  other  over 
like  puff;  pinch  neatly  round  and  fry  a  light  brown.  A  nice  way  to 
save  odds  and  ends  of  cold  meat. 

NOTE — One  kind  of  meat  will  do. 

PUDDING  PUFFS. — Mix  3  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1-2  pint 
of  cream  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  orange  flower  or  rose  water. 


320  PUFFS  AND  TARTS. 

Sweeten  the  whole  with  sugar,  put  the  batter  into  deep  custard  cups 
about  1-2  full,  set  them  in  an  oven,  and  when  the  puffs  rise  to  the  top 
they  are  done. 

PRUNE  TARTS. — Scald  the  prunes  and  break  the  stones,  put  the 
kernels  into  some  cranberry  juice  with  the  fruit  and  sugar,  simmer 
the  whole  over  a  slow  fire,  and  when  cold  make  a  tart  of  the  sweet- 
meat. 

CHOCOLATE  TARTS. — Rasp  4  ounces  of  chocolate  and  a  slice  of 
cinnamon ;  add  them  to  fresh  lemon  peel  grated ;  salt  and  sugar. 
Take  2  spoonfuls  of  flour  and  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  well  beaten  and 
mixed  with  milk ;  put  the  whole  in  a  stew  pan  and  set  it  over  the 
fire.  When  taken  off  put  in  lemon  peel  cut  small  and  let  it  stand 
till  cold.  Beat  up  enough  of  the  whites  of  eggs  to  cover  it  and  put 
it  into  puff  paste.  When  baked  throw  sifted  sugar  over  it  and  glaze 
it  with  a  salamander. 

ALMOND  TARTS. — Blanch  some  almonds,  beat  them  fine  in  a  mor- 
tar with  a  little  white  wine  and  some  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  one 
Ib.  to  the  same  quantity  of  almonds  ;  add  to  these  grated  bread, 
nutmeg,  cream  and  the  juice  of  spinach  for  coloring.  Bake  it  gently, 
and  when  done  thicken  it  with  candied  orange  or  citron. 

TRANSPARENT  TARTS. — Take  i  Ib.  of  flour,  beat  up  an  egg  till  it 
is  quite  thin,  then  melt  3-4  Ib.  of  clarified  fresh  butter  to  mix  with 
the  eggs,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  pour  the  whole  into  the  center  of 
the  flour  and  form  the  paste.  Roll  it  thin,  make  up  the  tarts,  and  on 
setting  them  in  the  oven;  wet  them  over  with  a  little  water  and  grate 
on  them  a  small  quantity  of  sugar. 

GREEN  PEA  TART. — Boil  some  young  peas  a  short  time,  put  to 
them  a  little  salt  with  some  sifted  sugar,  fresh  butter  and  saffron ; 
cover  them  with  a  fine  paste,  bake  the  last  g'ently  and  serve  it  with 
sifted  sugar. 

RASPBERRY  TART. — Roll  out  some  thin  paste  and  lay  it  in  a  dish 
or  patty  pan.  Put  in  the  raspberries,  throw  over  them  some  fine  su- 
gar, cover  the  the  dish  with  a  fine  crust  and  bake.  When  done  cut 
it  open  and  put  in  warm  1-2  pint  cream,  the  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs 
well  beaten  and  a  little  sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  for  5  or  6  minutes 
and  serve  up. 

CREAM  TARTS  — Put  the  paste  as  thin  as  a  knife  blade  around  the 
forms.  For  a  dozen  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1-4  Ib.  fine  white  sugar, 
9  or  10  eggs,  put  in  a  pan  and  stir  it,  i  pint  each  of  sweet  and  sour 
cream  ;  stir  and  mix  thoroughly  together  and  fiil  up  the  forms.  Bake 
in  a  cool  oven. 

FRENCH  TART  OF  PRESERVED  FRUIT. — Cover  a  flat  dish  or  patty 
pan  about  1-8  of  inch  thick.  Roll  out  some  more  paste  1-2  an  inch 
in  thickness,  cut  it  into  strips,  each  i  inch  in  width,  wet  the  paste 


PUFFS    AND    TARTS.  321 

and  lay  it  around  the  pan,  fill  the  center  with  jam  or  marmalade,  sur- 
round it  with  leaves  of  paste.  Bake  1-2  hour.  Send  it  to  the  table 
cold. 

POLISH  TARTLETS. — Roll  some  nice  puff  paste  out  thin,  cut  it  into 
21-2  inch  squares  ;  brush  each  square  over  with  the  white  of  an 
egg  and  fold  down  the  corners  so  that  they  all  meet  in  the  middle  of 
each  piece  of  paste ;  slightly  press  and  pinch  the  two  pieces  with 
the  finger  and  thumb;  brush  them  over  with  eggs;  sift  over  sugar; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  1-4  of  an  hour.  When  done  make  a  little 
hole  in  the  center  and  fill  with  jam  or  jelly. 

GOOSEBERRY  TART  BUTTER  PASTRY. — Half  pound  butter,  2  eggs, 
1-2  Ib.  flour;  roll  out  very  nicely,  put  in  any  kind  of  preserves,  1-2 
Ib.  sugar,  1-2  Ib.  almonds  chopped,  a  little  lemon,  mix  well  together. 
Then  stir  in  the  whole  of  an  egg  to  a  froth,  mix  it  light  and  pour 
over  the  top  of  the  fruit.  Bake  3-4  of  an  hour. 


322  SWEET  AND  DELICATE  DISHES. 


SWEET  AND  DELICATE  DISHES. 

GOLDEN  CUPS. — One' quart  of  milk,  3  good  tablespoonfula  of 
rice  boiled  and  stand  to  cool,  2  ounces  of  butter;  put  on  your 
milk  to  boil,  mix  the  rice  very  smooth  with  some  cold  milk;  as 
soon  as  the  former  begins  to  boil,  stir  in  the  latter  and  let  the 
whole  boil  for  20  minutes.  In  the  meantime  prepare  a  small  mus- 
lin bag  of  saffron  and  boil  with  the  compound,  then  remove  it 
after  having  colored  the  rice  a  gold  color;  whilst  the  milk  is  warm 
add  the  butter  and  a  little  salt ;  rinse  your  custard  cup  with  cold 
water,  1-2  fill  them  with  the  mixture;  when  it  becomes  cold,  then 
turn  out  of  the  cups  and  retain  their  forms.  They  are  very  orna- 
mental to  the  table.  To  be  eaten  with  cream  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.  Rose-colored  or  green  cups  may  be  produced  in  the 
same  way  by  substituting  a  little  cochineal  for  the  rose  color 
and  spinach  juice  for  the  green  color,  in  place  of  saffron  flowers. 

CINNAMON  STARS. — Stir  together  for  1-2  hour  1-2  Ib.  of  coarsly- 
pounded  almonds,  1-2  ounce  of  cinnamon  and  the  whites  ot  three 
eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  ;  strew  some  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixed  to- 
gether over  the  froth  board,  turn  out  the  mass  upon  it,  roll  this  out 
with  the  mixed  flour  and  sugar  to  twice  the  thickness  of  the  back  of 
a  knife ;  cut  out  of  this  stars  with  a  paste  cutter  (mould)  for  this 
purpose  in  the  shape  of  a  star,  put  them  on  a  baking  plate  coated 
with  wax,  and  continue  in  this  way  till  you  have  used  all  your  paste. 
Before  putting  the  stars  into  the  oven  wash  them  over  with  beaten- 
up  egg  and  dip  them  into  mixed  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

GATEUX  D'EPICE. — The  peculiarity  of  the  French  ginger-bread  is 
delicate  flavor  of  the  vanilla.  Pour  over  the  fire  i  pound  of  treacle, 
6  ounces  of  butter,  i  ounce  of  powdered  ginger,  i  ounce  of  pow- 
dered cinnamon,  i  ounce  of  pounded  cardamon,  i  ounce  each  of 
candied  lemon  and  orange  peel  in  shavings,  and  1-2  pod  of  vanilla 
pounded  with  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy ;  stir  the  mixture  well  and 
simmer  for  5  minutes,  then  pour  it  out  of  the  pan,  and  when  cool 
beat  it  by  degrees  in  as  much  flour  as  you  can  knead  into  a  smooth 
paste ;  bake  on  buttered  tins  in  small  cakes  or  nuts  in  a  slow  oven 
for  3-4  hour- 

ANGEL'S  FOOD. — (Miss  White.) — Beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  to  a 
froth,  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  into  it  beat  jelly  to  give 
it  a  pretty  color,  whip  a  pint  of  cream  sweetened  and  seasoned  to 
taste.  Pour  the  preparation  over  and  serve  with  the  cake. 

A  BEAUTIFUL  DISH.— On  the  top  of  a  flat  cake  pour  first  a  layer 
of  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  with  white  pounded  sugar  very  evenly, 
let  it  remain  for  a  moment  to  become  settled,  then  put  on  the 


SWKET  AND  DELICATE  DISHES.  323 

same  egg  colored  with  a  little  cochineal,  then  another  layer  of  the 
same  colored  with  saffron,  then  another  colored  with  the  green 
juice  of  spinach,  then  another  colored  with  finely  powdered  cho- 
colate. Each  layer  should  remain  a  moment  or  two  before  an- 
other is  added,  and  flavored  differently  to  fancy ;  then  begin  again 
with  white  and  repeat  the  process,  then  finish  with  a  white  layer, 
and  over  this  strew  veins  of  each  color  of  the  egg  and  sugar 
froth  in  any  figure  from  a  teaspoon,  then  put  a  round  dress  of 
each  in  different  places  ;  then  set  for  a  moment  in  a  cool  stove 
or  oven  to  harden.  Then  in  slicing  the  cake  it  will  appear  as 
though  covered  with  a  beautiful  strata.  Then  put  here  and  there 
fragments  of  sparkling  jelly. 

ROCK  WORK. — Made  of  beef  carved  so  as  to  resemble  the  wash- 
ing of  the  waves  of  the  ocean  through  a  rock  Then  lay  on  red 
jelly,  then  streaks  of  yellow  and  brown  jelly,  then  parsley  minced 
very  fine  to  resemble  green  moss,  over  which  sprinkle  the  yellow 
and  white  of  eggs  chopped  fine  and  separately,  then  jelly  of  differ- 
colors  moulded  so  as  to  represent  black,  grey  and  yellow  snails,  as 
if  sticking  to  the  rock  interspersed  over  it.  This  rock  resting  on 
green  and  gold  jelly  to  represent  the  waves  of  the  sea,  being  laid  in 
an  uneven  way.  The  green  should  be  made  of  spinach  or  mint 
juice.  A  little  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  froth  may  be  dropped 
around  the  back  to  represent  foam.  Dark-colored  jelly  of  choco- 
late in  drops  larger  or  smaller,  may  represent  pebbles.  A  broken 
pillar  is  represented  by  a  piece  of  veal  cut  in  that  shape,  or  blanc 
mange  moulded  in  that  form,  overgrown  with  flowers  (may  be  nat- 
ural or  artificial  ones),  with  moss  made  as  the  above  in  rock  work, 
with  rustic  steps,  and  fragments  lying  around. 

FRANGJPONE. — This  delicious,  creamy  material,  is  much  used  in 
French  cookery,  for  tartlets,  with  fruits  or  biscuits,  and  in  various 
confections,  and  is  made  immediately  before  using,  as  below. 

Beat  up  very  well,  6  eggs  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  fine,  very  dry  flour,  2  ozs.  of  bruised  macaroons,  3 
ozs.  sugar,  on  which  the  rind  of  a  lemon  has  been  rubbed,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  and  a  pint  of  new  milk.  Stir  gently 
over  a  slow  fire  for  20  minutes,  never  allowing  it  to  boil,  and  when 
thickened,  it  is  ready  for  use.  Poured  over  baked  apples,  pears, 
quinces,  etc.,  this  makes  an  excellent  entrement. 

FRENCH  MACAROONS. — Pound  in  a  mortar  very  fine,  i  Ib.  of  sweet 
almonds,  with  whites  of  eggs,  be  careful  they  do  not  oil,  then  mix  the 
almonds  and  whites  of  eggs  with  3  Ibs  of  powdered  loaf  sugar  to  a 
fine  thickness,  so  as  to  come  off  the  spoon  well,  then  put  3  sheets  of 
paper  on  your  plate,  and  with  a  tablespoon,  drop  them  oft  at  a  little 
distance  from  each  other,  so  as  not  to  touch,  put  them  in  rather  a 


324  SWEET  AND  DELICATE  DISHES. 

brisk  oven,  but  mind  they  do  not  burn  ;  bake  them  a  very  fine  brown 
color,  and  crisp  ;  then  let  them  stand  till  cold,  betore  you  take  them 
off;  but  if  they  are  burnt  at  the  bottom,  they  will  not  come  off  at  all, 
so  you  must  be  careful  of  them. 

A  BIRO'S  NEST. — Make  some  clear  jelly,  of  an  amber  color,  and 
fill  a  small,  broad  basin  1-2  full.  Have  some  birds'  eggs  blown,  fill 
them  with  blanc-mange ;  when  the  latter  is  quite  cold,  peel  off  the 
shells,  and  it  represents  small  eggs.  Put  some  moss  around  a  glass 
dish,  turn  the  jelly  out  and  stand  it  in  the  middle,  lay  some  lemon 
peel,  cut  in  thin  strips,  to  represent  straws,  on  the  jelly,  and  place 
the  eggs  on  the  top. 

SNOW  BALLS. — Swell  1-2  a  Ib.  of  rice  in  water  with  a  roll  of  lemon 
peel,  till  tender,  drain  it,  divide  it;  having  pared  and  cored  apples, 
and  the  holes  filled  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  cloves,  put  the  rice 
around  them,  tying  each  up  in  a  cloth,  tightly.  Boil  the  rice  and 
serve  with  pudding  sauce.  If  approved,  the  rice  may  be  boiled  in 
milk. 

RICE  AND  APPLES. — Boil  1-2  a  Ih.  of  rice  with  i  pint  of  cream  or 
milk,  with  lemon  peel  and  a  bit  of  cinnamon  ;  let  it  boil,  till  the  rice 
is  dry,  then  cool  it.  Raise  a  rim,  3  inches  high  round  the  dish  ;  hav- 
ing egged  the  dish  when  it  is  put  in,  to  make  it  stick  ;  then  egg  the 
rice  all  over,  after  mixing  it  well  with  a  spoonful  of  butter  and  2 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Fill  the  dish  half  ways  up  with  a  marmalade  of 
apples,  have  ready  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
and  put  them  over  the  marmalade,  then  sift  fine  sugar  over  it  and  set 
it  in  the  oven,  which  should  be  warm  enough  to  give  a  beautiful  color; 
or  cover  the  marmalade  with  the  rice,  garnish  with  apple  jelly,  and 
pour  custard  over  it. 

CURDS  AND  CREAMS. — When  the  milk  is  curdled  firmly,  fill  up  a 
melon,  or  any  shape,  perforated  with  holes  to  let  the  whey  drain  off. 
Fill  up  the  dish  as  the  curd  sinks  ;  turn  it  out  when  wanted,  and 
serve  with  cream  in  a  glass  dish,  or  a  whip  may  be  poured  about 
the  curd,  which  may  be  made  firm  by  squeezing,  or  long  standing. 
Garnish  with  currant  jelly,  or  raspberry  jam, 

VOLAUVENT  OF  PEACHES  (  French.)— Put  4  ozs.  sugar  into  a  stew-pan 
with  a  cupful  of  water,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  let  it  boil  on  the  fire 
till  it  forms  a  thick  syrup,  then  take  8  right  white  Heath  peaches,  free 
stone,  not  quite  ripe,  (cling  stone  Heath  are  very  good)  cut  them  in 
two,  break  the  stones,  take  out  the  kernels,  scald  them,  throw  6  halves 
of  them  into  the  boiling  syrup,  and  let  them  remain  3  minute,  then 
with  a  perforated  skimmer  take  them  out,  lay  them  on  a  dish  and  re- 
move the  skins  ;  stew  the  remainder,  4  at  a  time,  in  like  manner  ; 
when  all  are  done,  pour  the  syrup  that  runs  from  them,  again  into 
pan,  then  boil  the  liquid  down  to  a  proper  thickness ;  then  strain 


SWEET  AND  DELICATE  DISHES.  32$ 

through  flannel  or  a  straining  cloth  into  a  bowl ;  let  it  stand  till  cold, 
when  pour  over  the  peaches,  let  remain  until  ready  to  serve,  then  fill 
your  volanvent  with  peaches  and  pour  the  syrup  over.  NOTE.  Any 
kind  of  peaches  will  do,  but  the  white  Heath  are  the  best. 

VOLAUVENT  OF  ORANGES. — Remove  the  peel  and  pith  well  from  8 
oranges,  then  divide  them  into  as  many  pieces  as  there  are  sections, 
put  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  with  3  ozs.  of  sugar  aud  the  juice  of 
i  1-2  oranges;  cover  over  and  set  on  a  slow  fire,  stirring  occasion- 
ally with  a  silver  spoon.  It  requires  only  10  or  12  minutes,  then, 
with  the  spoon,  take  out  each  piece  separately  into  a  bowl,  then  boil 
the  syrup  down  to  a  proper  thickness.  When  ready  to  serve,  pour 
the  syrup  over  the  pieces  of  orange. 

SWEET  SOUFFLE. — Take  i  pint  of  milk  and  as  much  flour,  as  will 
come  to  a  thick  paste  over  the  stove  ;  keep  stirring  all  the  time,  and 
add  6  yolks  of  eggs,  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  as  much  sugar  as  you 
like.  Beat  8  whites  of  eggs  all  to  a  froth  and  stir  them  all  together; 
put  in  the  oven  1-4  hour  before  wanting  it ;  the  oven  must  be  quick. 
Glaze  it  with  white  sugar,  and  send  it  quickly  to  the  table.  It  may 
be  made  of  ground  rice.  The  rind  of  a  lemon,  grated,  or  lemon 
juice,  gives  it  a  nice  flavor. 

SOUFFLE  OF  POTATOES  WITH  LEMON. — Roast  10  potatoes ;  when 
they  are  done,  open  them  and  take  out  the  pulp,  and  mix  it  with  1-2 
pint  of  cream,  add  some  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  lump  of 
sugar,  not  too  much,  lest  the  souffle  should  not  be  light,  but  enough 
to  give  it  a  flavor ;  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  to  the  above,  then  beat 
the  whites  of  6  eggs,  and  mix  with  the  rest.  Pour  it  gently  into  a 
dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  sift  a  little  sugar 
over  it  and  brown  with  a  salamander.  It  should  be  served  imme- 
diately. 

PYRAMIDS  OF  MERINGUES. — Make  the  meringues  heart-shaped  or 
circular,  then  form  a  circle  of  the  desired  size  by  glueing  the  merin- 
gues together  with  the  wh;te  of  egg  or  gumarabic  and  sugar ;  let  this 
dry  a  little,  then  gradually  draw  the  circle  smaller,  until  you  arrive 
at  an  entire  closure.  These  are  very  ornamental  on  a  party  table. 

CORN  STARCH  MERINGUE — (R.  H.'s  recipe.) — Four  eggs,  i  quart 
of  milk,  3-4  cup  of  sugar,  4  teaspoontuls  of  corn  starch,  1-2  cup  of 
IV .lit  jelly  or  jam.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling  and  and  stir  in  the  corn 
starch,  which  has  been  previously  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  boil 
15  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  while 
still  hot  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  up  with  sugar 
and  seasoned  with  vanilla,  lemon  or  bitter  almond.  Pour  this  into 
a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  1-4  hour,  or  until  the  custard  be- 
gins to  set.  without  withdrawing  it  further  than  the  door  of  the 
oven  spread  lightly  and  quickly  upon  this  a  meringue  of  the  whites 


326  SWEET  AND  DELICATE  DISHES. 

whipped  up  stiff  with  1-2  cup  of  jelly — add  gradually.  Use  crab 
apple  jelly  if  bitter  almonds  have  been  put  into  the  custard ;  cur- 
rant for  vanilla,  strawberry,  or  any  other  sweet  conserve,  if  you 
season  the  custard  with  lemon.  Bake  covered  for  5  minutes,  then 
remove  the  lid  and  brown  the  meringue  very  slightly.  Eat  cold 
with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 

QUEEN  OF  TRIFLES — (Mrs.  H.'s.) — One-half  pound  of  lady-fin- 
gers or  square  sponge  cakes,  1-2  pound  of  macaroons,  the  same 
of  sweet  almonds  blanched,  the  same  of  crystalized  fruit  chopped 
fine,  T  cup  sweet  jelly  or  jam,  i  glass  of  brandy,  i  glass  of  the  best 
sherry,  rose  water,  i  pint  of  cream  whipped,  i  pint  of  rich  milk  for 
custard,  4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separated,  i  tablespoonful  of  corn 
starch,  i  small  cupful  sugar  for  custard,  a  little  powdered  sugar  for 
whipped  cream,  vanilla  flavoring  for  custard;  put  sponge  cakes  at 
the  bottom  of  a  large  glass  dish,  wet  with  brandy,  and  cover  thinly 
with  jelly.  Strew  the  mixed  fruit  thickly  upon  this. 

LEMON  TRIFLES. — (Mrs.  H.) — Delicious. — Two  lemons,  juice  of 
both,  and  grated  rind  of  i  ;  2  cups  sherry,  i  large  cup  of  sugar,  i 
pint  cream  well  sweetened  and  whipped  stiff,  a  little  nutmeg;  strain 
the  lemon  juice  over  the  sugar  and  grated  peel,  and  let  them  lie  to- 
gether 2  hours  before  adding  the  wine  and  nutmeg.  Strain  again, 
and  whip  gradually  into  the  frothed  cream ;  serve  in  jelly  glasses 
and  send  around  cake  with  it.  It  should  not  be  allowed  to  stand,  but 
eaten  as  soon  as  made. 

FLOATING  ISLANDS. — (Revolutionary  recipe.) — My  dear  old  great 
grandmother's.  Beat  4  eggs  to  a  solid  foam,  after  putting  2  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  currant  jelly  and  raspberry  jam  ;  continue  to  beat 
until  it  is  thoroughly  incorporated.  In  the  meantime,  or  before  you 
beat  the  eggs,  lay  in  the  bottom  of  a  pretty  china  dessert  dish  some 
Naples  biscuit  or  thin  slices  of  sponge  cake,  cover  with  sweetmeats 
and  cream  or  rich  new  milk,  and  then  pile  the  egg  froth  on  this  as 
high  as  you  can.  You  may  employ  bits  of  preserves  beaten  with 
the  egg  instead  of  the  jam,  and  you  can  use  only  one  kind  of  jelly 
or  jam,  as  you  may  please.  This  was  a  famous  dish  at  wedding  sup- 
suppers,  parties,  Xmas  dinners,  and  all  grand  festive  occasions,  by 
our  revolutionary  grandmas  in  the  old  Dominion. 

SAN  FRANCISCO  SYLLABUB. — One  quart  of  cream,  i  pint  best  Cali- 
fornia white  wine,  the  juice  of  a  California  lemon,  i  large  orange  or 
2  small  ones  with  a  large  glass  of  brandy,  i  gill  of  orange  flower 
water  and  pounded  sugar  to  taste.  Beat  it  up  well,  and  as  the  froth 
rises  take  it  off  and  lay  it  on  the  back  of  a  sieve  to  drain ;  if  it  does 
not  rise  well  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs.  When  done  enough  put  a 
little  of  the  liquor  into  a  glass  and  grate  thereon  some  nutmeg  and 
fill  them  1-2  with  froth.  It  may  be  colored  with  cochineal  or  by 
using  red  instead  of  white  wine. 


SWEET  AND  DELICATE  DISHES.  327 

COFFEE  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. — Line  a  mould  with  finger  biscuits, 
as  above,  roast  1-2  pound  of  green  coffee  in  a  coffee  pan,  boil  i 
quart  of  cream,  put  the  coffee  in  it,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place 
for  an  hour  ;  put  8  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  stew  pan  with  3-4  pounds  of 
pounded  sugar,  strain  in  the  coffee  cream  and  stir  over  the  fire  until 
the  eggs  begins  to  thicken.  Steep  i  ounce  of  gelatine  in  cold  wa- 
ter, drain,  and  add  it  to  cream ;  stir  till  the  gelatine  is  melted,  strain 
through  a  hair  sieve  into' a  basin  and  stir  the  cream  on  the  ice  until 
it  begins  to  thicken  ;  add  i  quart  of  well  whipped  cream,  and  finish 
th£  charlotte  as  directed  in  the  preceding  recipe. 

APPLE  CHARLOTTE. — Peal  and  core  20  large,  ripe,  plump  apples 
cut  them  in  thin  slices,  put  them  in  a  sauie  pan, 
with  some  butter  and  pounded  sugar,  and  toss  them  over  the  fire 
till  they  are  done;  Line  a  plain  mould  with  bread,  as  follows;  cut 
some  thin  slices  of  bread  crumb;  cut  it  rou.id,  i  1-2  inch  cutter,  to 
put  in  the  center,  then  cut  some  heart-shaped  pieces,  and  dip  them 
in  butter,  together  with  the  round  piece;  put  the  latter  at  the  bottom 
of  the  mould,  in  the  center;  and  place  the  heart  shaped  pieces 
around  it,  over-laping  one  another  ;  fill  the  center  with  the  cooked 
apples  and  put  the  Charlotte  in  the  oven  until  the  bread  is  well 
colored.  Turn  the  Charlotte  out  of  the  mould  on  a  dish;  glaze  it 
over  with  some  boiled  appricot  jam ;  and  serve. 

PEAR  CHARLOTTE. — Line  the  mould  with  bread  as  for  apple 
charlotte;  peal  15  rather  large,  ripe  and  plump  California  pears,  cut 
them  in  quarters  and  cook  them  in  a  sauce-pan  with  some  butter 
and  loaf  sugar ;  fill  the  mould  with  pears,  put  the  Charlotte  to  color 
in  the  oven ;  turn  it,  cut  and  glaze  it  over  with  jam  to  fancy. 

EGG  BLANC  MANGE. — Take  2-3  box  of  gelatine  and  4  1-2  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  pour  the  gelatine  in  a  quart  of  milk  and  set  it  in  the  back 
of  the  stove  to  dissolve  the  gelatine,  then  add  a  coffee  cup  of  white 
sugar  while  the  milk  is  heating,  beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs, 
add  half  cup  of  milk  to  them,  and  when  the  milk  is  scalding  hot,  put 
the  eggs  in  flour  with  vanilla  or  extract  of  lemon.  Stir  carefully  one 
way  until  it  is  done,  which  will  be  in  a  few  minutes.  If  it  remains 
over  the  fire  too  long,  it  will  curdle.  Three  minutes  will  be  long 
enough  to  scald  it.  Take  from  the  fire ;  continue  to  sjir  it  gently 
until  it  is  quite  cool  Then  rinse  a  mould  and  stir  the  mixture  into 
it ;  put  in  ice.  Eaten  with  sweet  cream. 

ORANGK  SNOW. — Four  large  Mandarine  oranges,  juice  of  all  and 
the  peel  of  one,  juice  and  the  grated  peel  of  one  lime,  i  package 
of  the  best  gelatine  soaked  in  2  gills  of  water.  The  whites  of  five 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  solid  froth,  i  coffee  cup  heaped  with  sugar 
(powdered)  and  2  cups  of  boiling  water.  Mix  the  juice  and  peel  of 
the  oranges  and  lime  with  the  soaked  gelatine,  add  the  sugar ;  stir 


328  CREAMS. 

all  up  well  and  let  them  alone  for  one  hour,  then  pour  on  the  boiling 
water,  and  stir  until  clear.  Strain  through  a  coarse  cloth,  pressing 
and  wringing  it  hard,  when  quite  cold,  whip  into  this  frothed  whites 
gradually,  until  thick  and  white.  1'ut  into  a  wet  mould  for  8  hours. 
CHOCOLATE  CREAM. — Put  into  a  small  stewpan  a  pint  of  milk  and 
6  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  make  it  very  hot  and  then  stir  in  it 
1-2  pint  of  made  chocolate,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  seven  eggs.  Put 
it  into  a  jug,  stand  it  in  a  sauce  pan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  it  until 
it  becomes  rather  thick,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  then  strain  it  through 
muslin,  and  strain  in  it  a  large  cupful  of  cream,  put  it  into  a  mould 
previously  dipped  into  cold  water,  and  set  the  mould  on  ice  to  set. 

CREAMS. 

VELVET  CRKAM. — To  a  pint  of  cream  put  a  very  little  sugar,  keep 
stirring  over  the  fire,  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  then  take  it  off, 
but  keep  on  stirring,  till  it  is  about  the  warmth  of  new  milk,  after 
which  pour  it  through  a  fine  colander  into  a  dish  containing  3  spoon- 
fuls of  lemon  or  orange  juice,  a  little  grated  peel,  and  a  little  fruit 
marmalade,  chopped  small,  with  2  spoonfuls  of  white  wine.  This 
should  be  prepared  the  evening  before  it  is  wanted. 

ORANGE  CREAM. — Dissolve  i  oz.  of  isinglass  and  6  ozs.  of  loaf 
sugar  in  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  having  first  rubbed  off  the  rind  of  5 
oranges  with  some  of  the  lumps  of  sugar.  Extract  the  juice  of  the 
oranges,  and  then  strain  the  isinglass  and  other  ingredients  into  it ; 
add  i  gill  of  cream  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  which  must  be  well 
beaten  ;  pour  the  whole  into  a  sauce-pan,  and  warm  it  over  the  fire, 
but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil ;  pour  into  a  jug  and  stir  until  cold,  before 
you  put  it  into  a  mold. 

ICE  CREAM. — Take  one  quart  of  pure  cream,  and  take  3-4  of  a 
pound  of  fine  sugar,  and  take  4  eggs,  and  put  that  all  on  the  fire  and 
keep  stirring  till  it  grows  thick ;  put  a  spoon  in  it,  and  when  you  put 
the  spoon  in  it,  lift  the  spoon  up,  and  if  it  drops  from  the  spoon  it  is 
cooked,  but  you  must  not  let  it  boil.  Put  it  in  a  freezer  and  flavor 
with  the  essence  of  vanilla,  or  if  it  is  convenient,  put  a  vanilla  bean 
split,  in  the  milk  or  cream  and  let  it  boil ;  then  you  freeze  it  with  ice 
and  coarse  salt. 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE-CREAM. — Rub  well  together,  12  eggs  and  i  1-4 
pounds  of  white  sifted  sugar,  and  2  quarts  of  perfectly  fresh  and  pure 
cream,  flavor  as  below  named,  and  cook  in  a  farina  boiler,  (a  tin 
vessel,  set  into  a  larger  one,  containing  hot  water)  stirring  constantly, 
until  it  thickens,  but  it  must  not  curdle.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve 
and  put  it  on  ice  to  cool.  As  there  is  "reason  in  the  cooking  of 
eggs,"  so  the  cooking  of  ice-cream  demands  care  and  skill ;  it  may 


HONEY.  329 

be  as  readily  undone  or  overdone,  as  a  beefsteak  or  an  oyster  stew. 
I  will  suppose  you  use  Tingley's  freezer,  which  I  find  superior  to  any 
other.  Pour  the  cream  into  the  freezing  can,  put  in  the  dasher, 
cover  and  fasten,  then  break  up  your  ice  with  a  wooden  mallet,  in 
any  heavy,  coarse  cloth,  old  coffee  sack  or  the  like,  to  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  and  pack  firmly  around  the  can,  adding  coarsly  ground  salt, 
until  the  tub  is  entirely  full.  A  4  quart  can  requires  25  pounds  of  ice 
and  i  quart  of  salt.  Cover  and  fasten  the  tub,  and  freeze  according 
to  the  directions  accompanying  each  freezer,  observing  the  more 
slowly  the  work  is  done,  the  firmer  and  smoother  will  be  the  product. 
If  a  large  bulk  of  light,  snowy  cream  is  desired,  turn  the  dasher  as 
rapidly  as  possible  ;  what  is  gained  in  volume,  is  lost  in  quality.  If 
beaten  rapidly  at  first,  or  if  beaten  at  all.  before  the  cream  is  entirely 
chilled,  small  grains  of  butter  will  appear  diffused  through  the  mass. 
When  the  freezing  is  completed,  open  the  can,  remove  the  dasher, 
pack  the  cream  firmly  down,  replace  the  cover,  drain  off  the  water, 
fill  the  tub  with  salt  and  ice  in  the  proportions  given,  cover  with  a 
woolen  blanket,  and  let  it  stand  several  hours  to  harden,  or  ripen. 

HONEY. 

HONEY  LIQUORICE  (Hamb  Ph.) — Honey  and  a  strong  infusion  of 
liquorice  boiled  to  a  proper  consistency.  Excellent  for  a  cold  or 
cough. 

HONEY  OF  BORAX. — Powdered  broax  i  drachm,  clarified  honey  i 
oz. ;  mix.  Astringent,  detersive  and  cooling,  it  is  employed  in  sore 
mouth  and  excessive  salvation. 

GRAPE  HONEY. — Formerly  -used  by  Arabians  and  Persians,  and 
is  still  prepared  in  many  portions  of  Syria  and  Palistine,  by  boiling 
the  must  down  to  1-3  and  sometimes  only  to  1-2.  In  this  way  grape 
jelly  is  found.  According  to  Pliny  the  proper  season  for  boiling  is  the 
autumnal  Equinox,  in  the  night  when  there  is  no  moon,  or  if  it  is 
full  moon  in  the  day  time.  In  Palestine  and  many  parts  of  Syria, 
especially  in  the  neighborhood  of  Hebron,  it  is  exported  in  great 
quantities  to  Egypt. 

NOTE — When  diluted  with  a  little  water  it  is  frequently  used  in- 
stead of  sugar,  or  a  substitute  for  butter,  and  is  sometimes  applied 
to  heal  wounds. 

OBSERVATIONS — Why  cannot  the  grapes  be  so  used  in  Califor- 
nia? 

ARTIFICIAL  HONEY. — Soft  water  6  pounds;  best  pure  honey  3 
pounds ;  white  moist  sugar  20  pounds ;  cream  of  tartar  80  grains  ; 
essence  of  roses  20  drops ;  mix  the  above  in  a  brass  kettle,  hoil  over 
a  charcoal  fire  for  5  minutes,  take  it  off,  add  the  whites  of  2 


330  HONEY. 

well  beaten  ;  when  almost  cold  add  2  pounds  more  of  honey.  A 
decoction  of  slippery  elm  or  mastic  will  improve  the  honey  added 
while  cooling.  In  hot  weather  it  will  ferment. 

GRANULATED  HONEY— (R.  P.) — The  Jews  of  Moldarin  and  the 
Ukraine  prepare  from  honey  a  sort  of  sugar,  which  is  solid  and 
white  as  snow,  which  they  send  to  the  distilleries  of  Dantzic. 
They  expose  the  honey  to  frost  for3  weeks,  where  neither  sun  nor 
snow  can  reach  it,  and  in  a  vessel  which  is  a  bad  conductor  of 
coleric,  by  which  process  the  honey  becomes  clear  and  hard  like 
sugar.  I  have  often  seen  it  resemble  granulated  lard,  and  hard 
enough  to  cut  with  a  knife.  It  may  be  kept  in  this  state  for  years 
by  keeping  it  a  number  of  degrees  below  the  freezing  point  in  ice 
in  an  ice-house.  It  greatly  improves  in  flavor  by  becoming,  as  we 
call  it,  "candied."  It  is  granulated  and  beautiful — returns  to  the 
liquid  state  in  warm  weather.  The  Chinese  have  a  way  to  make  it 
continue  in  this  candied  state,  and  sell  it  in  jars  as  they  do  their  pre- 
serves. In  every  instance  the  comb  is  removed  and  the  honey  clear. 
Though  I  have  often  seen  the  honey  candied  in  the  comb  in  very 
cold  weather.  It  is  delicious  whether  in  or  out  of  the  comb. 

MANUFACTURED  HONEY — (A  Cuban  recipe.)--One  quart  of  water, 
1 1  pounds  brown  sugar,  old  bee  honey  in  the  comb  2  pounds,  cream 
tartar  50  grains,  gum  arabic  i  ounce,  oil  of  peppermint  5  drops,  oil 
of  rose  2  drops.  Mix  and  boil  2  or  3  minutes  and  remove  from 
the  fire.  Have  ready  strained  i  quart  of  water,  in  which  a  table- 
spoonful  of  pulverized  slipery  elm  bark  has  stood  sufficiently  long 
to  make  it  ropy  and  thick  like  honey.  Mix  this  into  the  kettle  with 
an  egg  beaten  up,  stir  well  a  few  minutes,  and  when  a  little  cool  add 
2  pounds  of  nice  strained  bees'  honey,  then  strain  the  whole,  and 
you  will  have  not  only  an  article  which  looks  and  tastes  like  honey, 
but  which  possesses  all  its  medical  properties.  The  bark  of  the  mastic 
tree  could  be  substituted  for  the  slippery  elm. 

NOTE — In  preserving  fruits  in  brandy  or  spirits  place  the  fruit  in 
Jaottles,  then  pour  the  spirits  over  them,  in  which  1-2  pound  of  sugar 
to  every  quart  of  spirits  is  dissolved.  The  spirits  should  be  good. 

SYRUPS — Allow  2  pounds  of  the  best  sugar  to  every  pint  of  pure 
water,  then  pour  the  cold  water  on  the  sugar  and  let  them  remain 
for  some  hours,  stirring  occasionally;  then  heat  very  gently  to  finish 
the  solution,  after  simmering  i  or  2  minutes ;  then  check  it ;  if 
it  pours  out  like  oil  it  is  done,  or  if  a  thin  skim  appears  when  flow- 
ing on  the  syrup. 

SUGAR — BOILING  FOR  CANDYING. — Take  any  quantity  of  well 
clarified  and  perfectly  transparent  syrup  and  boil  it  to  the  required 
degree,  which  is  ascertained  by  dipping  a  perforated  skimmer  into 
the  boiling  fluid  and  let  it  drain  through  into  the  kettle,  then  blow 


HONEY.  331 

through  the  holes,  and  if  the  syrup  that  remains  forms  into  bladders 
it  has  arrived  at  the  second  degree ;  then  to  ascertain  if  it  has  ar- 
rived at  feathered  degree  re  dip  the  skimmer  and  shake  it  over 
the  boiler,  and  if  it  flies  off  like  feathers  it  is  ready.  Then  boil  a 
while  longer,  then  dip  a  stick  into  the  syrup,  and  then  into  cold  wa- 
ter;  if  right,  the  moment  it  touches  it,  it  will  snap  like  glass,  when 
it  is  at  full  candy  height.  At  once  remove  from  the  fire  and  set  in 
cold  water  to  keep  from  burning.  One  drop  of  oil  will  flavor  a  large 
quantity,  such  as  citron,  Lergamot,  &c. 

SUGAR  LEMON. — To  every  4  pounds  of  the  best  refined  white 
sugar  3  ounces  of  tartaric  acid;  1-4  oz.  essence  of  lemon.  Used  for 
lemonade,  &c. 

HONEY,  DOMESTIC,  QUICKLY  MADE. — (Mrs.  Curry.) — For  2  coffee 
cups  of  white  gianulated  sugar  add  1-2  cup  of  water,  in  which  is 
melted  a  piece  of  citric  acid  as  large  as  the  end  of  the  little  finger, 
or  less.  Boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle  till  it  begins  to  thicken  a  little ; 
when  sufficiently  cool  pour  into  a  jar  or  an  earthen  vessel ;  keep 
covered.  Excellent  for  waffles  or  any  kind  of  griddle  cakes,  pan- 
cakes or  fritters. 

CANDIED  CHERRIES  FOR  THE  GRANGE. — 1-2  gallon  of  the  largest 
red  cherries;  fully  ripe,  a  pounds  of  good  loaf  sugar,  i  tumbler  of 
water;  put  the  sugar  into  an  enameled  kettle  and  pour  the  water  on 
it,  boil  as  for  candy,  until  thick  enough  to  pull,  set  it  on  the  corner  of 
the  stove  and  stir  until  it  shows  signs  of  granulation.  To  cause  this 
it  should  be  stirred  frequently  while  cooking.  When  the  grains  or 
crystals  appear  on  the  back  of  the  spoon,  drop  in  the  cherries,  a 
few  at  a  time ;  let  each  addition  remain  in  the  syrup  for  a  few  min- 
utes, then  place  in  a  sieve  over  a  dish ;  shake  gently  but  long,  then 
turn  the  cherries  out  to  coo!  upon  a  shallow  broad  dish,  and  dry  in  a 
sunny  place. 

A  GRANGER'S  CANDIED  LEMON  PEEL. — Take  15  California 
lemons,  5  Ibs.  of  loaf  sugar,  with  a  small  portion  of  lemon  juice,  3  1-2 
cups  of  clear,  cold  water.  Remove  carefully  the  peel  from  the  lemon 
in  long  strips,  and  let  them  remain  in  salt  and  water  for  a  niylu  ; 
then  wash  them  in  four  or  five  waters  next  morning,  and  boil  until 
tender  and  soft.  They  should  look  clear,  but  not  so  tender  as  to 
break.  Dissolve  a  large  pinch  of  powdered  alum  in  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  the  conserve,  and  let  it  remain  for  2  hours.  The 
syrup  now  being  ready,  mix  the  sugar  in  3  1-2  cups  of  water,  add  to 
it  the  juice  of  4  lemons,  and  boU  until  it  ropes  from  the  end  of  the 
spoon,  then  add  the  peels  to  this  and  simmer  gently  for  30  minutes. 
Then  take  them  out  and  spread  upon  a  sieve  set  over  a  dish  ;  shake 
cautiously  and  frequently,  tossing  over  the  peel  until  almost  dry. 
Sift  granulated  sugar  over  them,  and  lay  them  upon  a  clean  cloth 


332  CANDIES. 

spread  over  a  table  in  the  open  air.  When  thoroughly  dried,  pack 
in  glass  jars. 

To  CANDY  ANY  SORT  OF  FRUIT. — When  finished  in  the  syrup,  put 
a  layer  of  fruit  into  a  seive  and  dip  it  suddenly  into  hot  water,  to 
take  off  the  syrup  that  hangs  about  it;  then  put  it  on  a  napkin  be- 
fore the  fire  to  drain,  and  place  some  more  in  the  seive.  Have 
ready  sifted  double  refined  sugar,  which,  sift  over  the  fruit  on  all 
sides,  till  quite  white.  Set  it,  in  a  single  layer,  on  seives  in -a  lightly 
warm  oven,  and  turn  it  two  or  three  times ;  it  must  not  be  allowed 
to  get  cold  until  dry  ;  watch  it  carefully,  and  it  will  have  a  beautiful 
appearance.  When  any  sweetmeats  are  directed  to  be  dried  in  the 
sun  or  in  a  stove,  it  will  be  best  in  private  families  where  there  is  not 
a  regular  stove  for  the  purpose,  to  put  them  in  the  sun,  on  flag- 
stones, which  reflect  the  heat,  or  put  them  into  an  oven,  taking  care 
not  to  let  it  be  too  warm,  and  watch  that  they  are  done  properly  and 
slowly. 

To  CLARIFY  SUGAR  FOR  PRESERVING  FRUITS,  ETC. — To  every 
pound  of  broken  sugar  take  1-4  pint  of  water  and  the  half  of  an  egg, 
beat  up  ;  stir  this  up  until  the  sugar  dissolves;  when  it  boils,  and 
the  scum  rises  strong  and  thick,  pour  in  another  gill  of  water  to  each 
pound ;  let  it  boil,  edging  the  pan  forward  till  all  the  scum  is  thrown 
off.  Set  it  on  the  hearth,  and  when  it  has  settled,  take  off  the  scum, 
and  lay  it  on  a  reversed  hair  seive  over  a  dish,  that  the  syrup  may 
run  from  it;  return  the  syrup  into  the  pan,  and  boil  and  skim  it  once 
more. 

CANDIES. 

HOMK-MADE  CANDY. — Use  a  new  tin  basin,  put  into  it  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  i  Ib.  ol  coffee  sugar,  T  teaspoonful  of  good  cream 
of  tartar;  boil,  stirring  constantly  to  avoid  burning.  After  it  begins 
to  have  a  sappy  appearance,  try  it  often  by  dropping  a  little  into 
cold  water,  and  if  done,  it  will  at  once  become  brittle.  Butter  an 
earthen  dish  and  pour  the  hot  candy  into  it,  that  it  may  cool  enough 
to  handle.  Flavor  to  taste  with  oil  of  peppermint,  wintergreen,  sas- 
safras or  lemon  ;  two  drops  will  flavor  it  strong.  For  variety,  divide 
it  into  3  or  four  parts  and  flavor  differently  by  touching  one  kind  of 
oil  to  each.  Work  in  the  hands  at  once ;  the  more  it  is  pulled  the 
whiter  it  will  get. 

ALMOND  TAFFY. — Boil  a  syrup  of  i  Ib.  of  sugar  to  i  1-2  pints  of 
water  to  caramel  height,  throwing  in  an  ounce  of  blanched  almonds, 
split  into  strips,  and  i  oz.  of  butter.  When  the  candy  hardens  at 
once  in  the  water,  turn  it  out  into  a  buitered  slab  and  cut  into  thin 
squares. 

HOARHOUND  CANDY. — Good  for  cough  and  hoarseness.     Gather 


CANDIES. 


33.3 


the  herb  and  wash  it  clean,  then  boil  till  the  juice  is  extracted  ;  then 
boil  some  sugar,  till  it  becomes  light,  and  add  the  juice  of  the  hoar- 
hound  to  it,  and  boil  it  up  again.  Stir  it  with  a  spoon  against  the 
side  of  the  pan,  till  white,  then  pour  it  into  a  paper  case,  horizontal- 
ly, dust  it  with  fine  sugar,  and  cut  in  squares  ;  or  the  hoarhound  may 
be  dried,  and  put  into  the  sugar,  finely  powdered  and  sifted. 

SAN  FRANCISCO  KISSES. — Beat  12  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  slowly 
sprinkle  i  Ib.  of  fine  sugar  in  it,  while  beating  do  not  stir  it;  as  soon 
as  the  sugar  is  in,  stop  beating.  Have  a  tin  tube  and  put  it  on  pa- 
per about  3  inches  long,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ;  as  soon  as  dry, 
press  the  center  down,  fill  with  thick  cream,  seasoned  to  taste,  .pile  it 
high  in  the  center,  and  turn  one  piece  on  the  other,  to  form  an  egg- 
shape. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS. — Are  made  by  boiling  20  Ibs.  of  best  white 
sugar  to  hard  balls,  and  stirring,  till  it  is  formed  into  a  cream,  then 
make  holes  with  your  moulds  in  the  best  white  powdered  starch;  and 
fill  with  the  cream ;  take  them  out  of  your  starch,  put  them  in  a 
sieve  and  brush  well,  then  dip  into  melted  chocolate,  and  let  them 
stand  till  cold. 

LITTLE  MOLLY'S  GRANDMAMA'S  VINEGAR  CANDY. — Four  cups 
white  sugar,  2  cups  clear  vinegar ;  after  stirring  the  sugar  and  vine- 
gar until  dissolved  perfectly,  then  stew  gently,  till  it  harden  a  little  on 
the  spoon,  then  pour  upon  broad,  flat  dishes,  well  buttered,  and  cool. 
Then,  as  soon  as  you  are  able  to  put  the  tips  of  your  fingers  into  it 
without  burning  begin  to  pull  it,  until  white  and  porous.  It  is  ex- 
cellent for  a  cough,  or  sore  throat,  or  hoarseness. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  CANDY. — Four  cups  brown  sugar,  2  of  butter, 
vinegar  to  taste,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  a  little  soda;  boil  1-2 
hour.  Drop  a  little  in  hot  water;  if  crisp,  it  is  done. 

MOLASSKS  CANDY.  (Our  Own.) — Two  pints  of  molasses,  i  1-2  Ibs. 
brown  sugar,  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  and  12  drops  of  oil  of  lemon. 
Mix  the  molasses  and  sugar  together,  butter  the  inside  of  your  ket- 
tle, and  put  your  ingredients  in  it,  then  boil  over  a  moderate  fire 
for  2  hours,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  boil  for  30  minutes ;  stir  it 
often  to  prevent  it  from  burning.  When  thoroughly  done,  it  will 
cease  boiling,  then  butter  a  flat  dish  or  pan,  and  pour  it  out  to  cool. 
If  sufficiently  done,  it  will  be  crisp  and  brittle,  if  not,  it  will  be  tough 
and  ropy.  Nuts  of  any  kind  may  be  added  just  before  it  is  put  in 
the  pan,  and  stirred  well  into  the  candy.  Pull  with  the  hand  when 
sufficiently  cool. 

MOLASSES  CANDY.  (Julia  French.) — One  cup  of  molasses,  i  cup  of 
sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
boil,  (but  do  not  stir),  until  it  hardens,  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Then  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  pour  on  buttered  tins ;  when 
cool,  pull  and  cut  in  sticks. 


334  CANDIES. 

OR. — Two  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  boil,  when  done, 
add  a  teaspoon  soda  ;  pour  out,  cool  and  pull,  or  cut  in  squares  with- 
out pulling  ;  do  not  stir  while  boiling. 

MOLASSES  CANDY,  (French.) — Two  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls 
vinegar,  i  cup  of  molasses,  a  cupful  of  butter,  do  not  stir,  boil  till  it 
hardens,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  pour  in  buttered  tins. 
Pull  and  cut  as  desired,  in  any  form. 

A  GRANGER'S  MARBLED  CREAM  CANDY. — Six  cups  of  fine  white 
sugar,  2  teacups  of  water,  2  of  rich,  sweet  cream,  2  tablespoonfuls 
(even)  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  1-2  teaspoon  of  soda, 
stirred  in  cream,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  extract  of  van- 
illa to  taste.  Reserve  1-2  of  the  cream,  the  chocolate  and  vanilla  ; 
boil  all  the  ingredients  (besides)  together  very  quickly,  until  it  is 
thick  and  ropy;  then  beat  in  another  pan,  the  reserved  cream,  into 
which  you  have  rubbed  the  grated  chocolale,  after  stewing  till  quite 
thick;  when  the  candy  is  done,  add  a  cupful  of  it  to  this,  while  stir- 
ring it  thoroughly.  Pour  out  upon  broad  and  fiat  dishes,  the  un- 
colored  syrup,  then  pour  upon  it  here  and  there,  large  spoonfuls  of  the 
chocolate  mixture.  So  soon  as  you  can  bear  it,  pull  it  with  the  tips 
of  your  fingers.  If  skillfully  managed,  it  will  be  beautifully  streaked 
with  white  and  dark  color. 

TAFFY. — Add  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  to  i  Ib.  sugar  (loaf) 
3  oz.  of  butter.  Boil  for  1-4  hour;  pour  into  dishes  slightly  buttered. 
Cut  in  strips  with  a  buttered  knife,  but  do  not  attempt  to  raise  them 
till  cold.  One  pound  of  thin  shelled  almonds  will  yield  1-2  Ib.  when 
shelled;  very  thick  shelled  will  require  more. 

To  MAKE  COCOA  NUT  CANDY. — Let  your  cocoa  nut  be  sweet 
and  fresh,  rasp  it  finely.  Spread  on  a  sheet  over  a  wide  platter  and 
let  it  dry  without  artificial  means;  three  days  will  do,  to  each  pound 
of  nuts  allow  1-4  Ib.  of  sugar  or  more,  if  desired.  Boil  the  sugar, 
when  it  begins  to  become  very  white,  strew  in  the  nut  gradually,  stir 
and  mix  it  well,  until  finished.  To  prevent  it  from  burning,  keep 
the  pan  a  little  above  the  fire. 

CHOCLATE  CARAMELS. — Take  i  pint  of  new  milk;  1-4  Ib.  of 
chocolate,  i  Ib.  of  white  sugar,  boil  this  well  together.  Try  this  on 
a  buttered  plate,  as  it  will  not  crisp  in  water,  and  when  done  pour 
on  buttered  pans  and  mark  off  in  squares  with  a  knife  as  it  curls, 
and  then  it  will  easily  break  when  cold.  They  are  very  nice. 

SILK  THREAD  OR  SPUN  SUGAR. — Having  boiled  your  sugar  until 
it  cracks  and  does  not  adhere  to  the  teeth  in  eating  it,  oil  the  handle 
of  a  wooden  spoon,  tie  two  forks  together,  the  prongs  turned  out- 
wards, dip  them  lightly  into  boiled  sugar,  take  out  and  shake  them 
to  and  fro,  the  sugar  running  from  them  over  the  spoon,  forming 
fine  silken  threads,  proceeding  thus  until  you  have  as  much  as  you 


CANDIES.  335 

require,  take  it  from  the  spoon  and  form  it  with  your  hands  into 
whatever  may  be  directed  for  the  finishing  of  any  dish,  not  however, 
too  thick,  or  it  would  look  heavy. 

NOGAR. — Take  1-2  Ib.  of  pounded  sugar;  put  it  in  a  stew  pan 
over  a  gentle  fire  without  water  ;  and  when  a  light  brown,  add  as 
many  cut  slices  of  dry  almonds  as  will  make  it  a  thick  paste ;  turn  it 
out  in  a  mould,  or  on  a  marble  slab,  well  oiled,  and  flatten  with  a 
rolling  pin,  and  cut  in  square  pieces.  If  the  almonMs  are  browned  a 
little  in  the  oven,  before  putting  in  the  sugar,  the  Nogar  will  be  the 
better. 

PUNCH  DROPS. — Put  3-4  Ib.  of  coarsely  pounded  sugar  in  a  basin; 
mix  it  to  a  stiff  paste,  with  some  rum  and  lemon  juice.  Put  the 
paste  in  a  pastile  sugar  water,  boil  it,  and  make  the  drops  as 
described  for  strawberry  drops. 

PINE  APPLE  DROPS. — Make  the  drops  as  for  strawberry  drops — 
mixing  the  sugar  with  pine  apple  instead  of  strawberry  juice  or 
puree. 

COCOANUT  BALLS  OR  DROPS. — One  pound  of  grated  sweet  cocoa- 
nut  dried  a  few  hours  in  the  sun  or  a  very  moderate  oven ;  one 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  the  whites  of  four  well  beaten  eggs,  drop  on 
paper  any  size  that  you  may  wish,  and  bake. 

PINE  APPLE  BON  BONS  IN  CASES. — Boil  and  work  the  sugar,  as 
above;  substitute  some  chopped  preserved  pine  apple  for  the  orange 
flowers;  and  finish  the  bon  bons  in  the  same  way. 

ORANGE  FLOWER  BON  BONS  IN  CORES. — Boil  3-4  Ib.  of  sugar,  let 
it  cool,  and  work  it  with  the  spatula  until  it  becomes  white;  add  i 
oz.  of  candied  orange  flowers,  fill  some  small  paper  vases  with  the 
sugar;  and  put  them  in  the  hot  cloth  to  dry. 

To  CRYSTALIZE  POP  CORN. — Put  into  an  iron  kettle,  i  table 
spoonful  of  butter,  3  table  spoonfuls  of  water,  and  i  teacupful  of 
white  sugar,  boil  until  ready  to  candy,  then  throw  in  3  ears  of  corn 
nicely  popped,  and  stir  briskly,  until  the  candy  is  merely  distributed 
over  the  corn,  remove  the  kettle  off  the  fire,  and  stir  till  cooled  a 
little,  and  you  have  each  grain  seperate  and  crystalized  with  the 
sugar,  care  should  be  taken  that  the  vessel  be  perfectly  clean  and 
not  too  hot  a  fire,  lest  you  scorch  the  corn  when  crystaliz- 
ing.  Walnuts,  almonds,  or  nuts  of  any  kind  prepared  in  this  way 
are  delicious. 

POP  CORN  BALLS. — Use  none  but  that  is  fully  open,  then  place  2 
pecks  of  the  corn  in  a  large  dripping  pan ;  then  in  a  proper  sized 
kettle,  put  i  Ib.  of  nice  sugar  dissolved  with  a  very  little  water,  and 
boil  as  you  would  candy,  until  it  becomes  a  little  stiff  in  cold  water, 
then  take  it  from  the  fire,  then  pour  into  it  a  gill  of  thick  gum  arabic 
water,  made  by  melting  gum  arabic  in  boiling  water,  and  standing  all 


336  TO  CAN  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

night,  then  pour  here  and  there  a  little  of  the  mixture  over  the  corn, 
then  with  the  hand  or  a  stick,  stir  the  corn  until  it  thoroughly  incu- 
porated  with  the  candy  mixture,  then  the  corn  can  be  measured  in  a 
cup  and  pressed  together  with  the  hands  quickly,  before  it  gets  cold 
and  hard. 

CANDY  FIGS. — Set  over  a  slow  fire  in  a  pan,  i  Ib.  of  sugar  in  i 
pint  of  water  when  done,  add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla,  and  a  lump  of 
butter,  and  put  info  pans  into  which  split  figs  are  laid. 

GINGER  CANDY. — Useful  for  flatulency  and  pain  in  the  stomach. — 
To  i  pound  of  finely  beaten  loaf  sugar  add  i  ounce  of  finely  pow- 
dered ginger,  put  them  both  into  a  preserving  pan  with  enough  wa- 
ter to  dissolve  the  sugar.  Stir  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire  till  the 
sugar  begins  to  boil,  then  put  in  another  pound  of  finely  beaten 
sugar  and  stir  it  till  it  becomes  thick ;  remove  it  from  the  fire  and 
drop  it  upon  earthen  plates.  Set  them  in  a  warm  place  to  dry. 

To  IMPKOVE  SUGAR  AND  INCREASE  IT. — To  every  5  Ibs.  of  sugar 
add  i  of  flour. 

TO  CAN  VEGETABLES,  FRUITS,  ETC. 

• 

To  CAN  TOMATOES  AND  OKRA  FOR  SOUP. — Pour  boiling  water 
over  ripe,  sound  tomatoes,  then  remove  the  skins,  put  into  a  porce- 
lain kettle  to  boil ;  as  the  water  rises  dip  part  of  it  off,  or  it  will  re- 
quire a  long  time  to  reduce  the  tomatoes  so  as  to  can  ;  boil  until 
almost  ready  for  table  use.  In  the  meantime  wash  the  okra,  and 
cut  crosswise,  and  drop  into  boiling  water,  boil  1-2  hour,  skim  sev- 
eral times,  dip  up  with  a  perforated  ladle  and  drop  into  the  toma- 
toes, and  let  all  boil  1-2  hour,  pour  into  cans  and  seal  while  hot. — 
Mrs.  Martin. 

To  CAN  FRUIT— (Mrs.  H.) — The  chief  agent  in  the  work  of  pres- 
ervation is  heat.  After  the  application  of  heat  after  a  certain  length 
of  time  (by  which  process  the  air  is  expelled),  the  article  may  be 
sealed  hermetrically  and  remain  unchanged  for  an  indefinite  period. 
The  fruit  and  vegetables  should  be  canned  as  soon  as  possible  after 
being  gathered.  How  to  know  that  the  can  is  hermetrically  sealed 
and  that  its  contents  will  keep:  the  contents,  as  soon  as  they  cool; 
will  shrink,  leaving  a  vacuum,  and  the  top  and  bottom  of  the  can 
will  concave  from  the  pressure  of  the  external  air.  This  shows  that 
the  sealing  is  complete.  Set  the  can  in  a  warm  place,  and  after  4 
or  5  days  the  concave  condition  of  the  top  and  bottom  remains  is  all 
right. 

SMALLER  FRUITS. — Such  as  raspberries,  strawberries,  blackberries, 
thimbleberries,  currants,  &c.,  may  also  be  done  as  follows :  Pick  and 
wash  the  fruit  carefully  and  weigh,  allowing  to  each  pound  of  fruit 


TO  CAN  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  337 

1-2  pound  of  sugar  or  less.  Put  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  alternate 
layers  in  a  vessel  and  allow  them  to  stand  i  hour,  then  put  them  into 
a  preserving  kettle  and  boil  10  minutes.  Can  and  seal  at  once. 

CANNED  PINE  APPLE. — (Mrs.  Bristol.) — For  6  Ibs.  of  fruit,  when 
cut  and  ready  to  can,  make  syrup  with  2  1-2  pounds  sugar  and  nearly 
3  pints  of  water,  boil  water  5  minutes  and  skim  or  strain,  if  neces- 
sary, then  add  the  fruit,  and  let  it  boil  up  ;  have  cans  hot  and  fill 
and  close  up  as  soon  as  possible.  Use  the  best  white  sugar ;  as  the 
cans  cool  keep  tightening  them  up. 

To  CAN  QUINCES. — It  is  necessary  that  the  fruit,  after  being  pared 
and  cut  in  slices  of  uniform  size,  should  be  boiled  in  clear  water  till 
slightly  tender.  In  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled  (allowing  a 
tumblerful  to  a  pound  of  sugar),  dissolved  sugar  in  the  proportion 
of  1-2  pound  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  As  soon  as  the  sugar  is  dissolved 
and  the  syrup  begins  to  boil,  return  the  quinces  to  the  kettle  and 
boil  for  15  minutes.  Can  them  while  boiling  hot  and  sealing  imme- 
diately. Pears  and  apples  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner. 

BOTTLED  PLUMS.  (Australian.)— Gather  the  fruit  when  dry,  put  it 
into  stone  jars,  tie  it  down  with  bladders,  and  over  the  bladder  tie  a 
paper  to  keep  the  bladder  from  drying.  Put  the  jars  to  stand  in  a 
very  cool  oven,  for  24  hours  longer,  take  off  the  paper  and  look  at 
the  bladder,  if  it  is  not  cracked,  label  and  put  away  in  a  warm  and 
dry  place  ;  if  any  of  the  bladders  be  cracked,  put  on  a  new  one  and 
just  make  the  plums  hot  through  in  the  oven,  so  as  to  exhaust  the 
air.  The  oven  throughout  this  process  should  be  very  much  cooler 
than  even  for  a  custard.  These  plums  keep  very  well,  and  are  more 
like  fresh  fruit,  than  when  done  with  sugar. 

To  BOTTLE  PLUMS.  (Mrs.  E.  P.  Nottingham,  Va.) — Have  your 
bottles  perfectly  dry,  and  fill  them  with  the  fruit  to  within  2  inches  of 
the  neck,  stop  the  bottles  slightly  with  paper,  set  them  in  a  vessel  of 
cold  water,  and  let  them  heat  gradually  until  the  water  boils  10  or  15 
minutes,  then  take  the  water  off  with  the  bottles  in  it,  and  let  them 
remain,  until  the  water  is  perfectly  cool,  then  have  some  corks,  soaked 
in  boiling  water,  with  which  stop  the  bottles  very  tight,  then  dip  the 
corked  part  in  melted  rosin  or  sealing  wax.  Make  a  deep  hole  in 
the  earth  in  a  shady,  cool  place  or  cellar,  and  cover  them  up.  When 
tarts  are  to  be  made,  sweeten  the  fruit  to  fancy. 

THE  COLD  PROCESS  OF  CANNING  FRUIT. — If  peaches,  pare  arvl 
halve  them,  pack  them  as  closely  as  possible  in  a  can  without  ;•  , 
sugar ;  when  the  can  is  full  pour  in  sufficient  pure  cold  water  t< 
all  the  interscices  between  the  peaches  and  to  reach  the  rim  <>!  i.ic 
can  ;  let  it  stand  long  enough  in  the  water  to  soak  into  all  thu  crev- 
ices, say  6  hours,  then  pour  in  water  to  replace  what  has  been  sunk 
away.  Seal  up  the  can,  and  all  is  done.  Canned  in  this  way  ^caches 


338  SPICES  AND  CURRIES. 

retain  all  their  freshness  and  flavor.  There  will  not  be  water  enough 
in  them  to  render  them  insipid.  If  preferred,  a  cold  syrup  could  be 
used  instead  of  pure  water,  but  the  peaches  taste  natural  without  any 
sweetening. 

SPICES. 

SPICES. — To  have  them  good,  one  must  have  them  prepared  at 
home.  In  ordinary  cooking  the  following  proportions  are  used : 
Put  into  a  clean  paper  bag,  of  a  light  straw  color,  1-4  oz.  of  bay  leaf, 
1-4  oz.  of  thyme,  1-8  oz.  of  rosemary,  1-8  oz.  of  marjoram;  put  the 
bag  into  a  hot  screen  until  the  herbs  are  quite  dry;  mix  in  a  mortar 
with  1-2  oz.  nutmeg,  1-2  oz.  of  cloves,  1-4  oz.  of  whole  peppers,  1-8 
oz.  of  Cayenne  pepper;  pound  the  whole,  and  pass  through  a  hair 
seive.  Keep  the  mixed  spices  in  a  dry,  well-corked  bottle.  These 
spices  are  used  either  alone  or  with  salt  added.  The  proportion  for 
mixing  with  salt  is  i  oz.  of  the  mixture  to  4  oz.  of  fine  salt.  In  con- 
formity to  these  proportions,  a  good  seasoning  will  be  secured.  It 
is  very  easy  to  perceive  all  the  advantages  of  having  such  a  mixture 
prepared,  together  with  the  definite  instructions  as  to  the  proper 
quantity  required  for  different  seasonings.  As  an  instance  of  the 
employment  of  the  mixture  in  practice,  I  will  at  once  mention  that  i 
oz.  of  the  spiced  salt  just  referred  to,  will  be  the  quantity  required  to 
season  3  Ibs.  of  force  meat. 

CONCENTRATED  ESSENCE  OF  GINGER. — Unbleached,  well-bruised 
Jamaica  ginger  4  oz.,  rectified  spirits  of  wine  i  pt.;  digest  for  two 
weeks,  press  and  filter. 

SPICES  FOR  SEASONING — How  TO  PREPARE  THEM. — 2  oz.  each  of 
cloves  and  white  pepper  grains,  i  oz.  each  of  nutmeg,  mace,  sweet 
basil,  marjoram  and  thyme,  1-2  oz.  of  bay  leaves;  the  herbs  should 
be  dried  in  the  shade,  in  a  dry,  airy  place,  the  spices  coarsely  beaten, 
then  place  these  ingredients  between  sheets  of  vellum  paper,  folded 
over  them  and  tied  up,  so  as  to  prevent  the  aroma  of  the  ingredients 
from  escaping ;  then  place  them  in  a  stove,  with  a  sheet  of  tin  to 
keep  them  from  burning,  dry  gradually  and  perfectly,  then  crumble 
them  at  once  and  run  them  through  a  sifter ;  put  in  a  bottle  and 
cork  tightly. 

CURRIES. 

GRILLED  CHICKEN  WITH  SHARP  SAUCE. — Prepare  your  chicken  as 
for  grill,  oil  it  slightly  over,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  in  propor- 
tion to  size,  then  place  it  on  a  gridiron  over  rather  a  fierce  fire ; 
when  nearly  done,  put  by  degrees  2  tablespoonfuls  of  Sultana  sauce 
over  it,  losing  none  of  it;  when  done,  have  on  a  dish  i  oz.  of  butter; 
pour  over  the  butter  another  tablespoonful  of  sauce,  mix  well,  and 
ufter  turning  the  chicken  two  or  three  times,  serve  it  up. 


CURRIES. 

INDIAN  CURRY  POWDER. — 1-4  lb.  of  coriander  seed,  1-4  Ib.  of 
tamerice,  2  oz.  cinnamon  seed,  1-2  oz.  Cayenne,  i  oz.  mustard,  i  oz. 
ground  ginger,  1-2  oz.  allspice,  2  qz.  fenugreek  seed.  Put 
all  the  ingredients  in  a  cool  oven,  where  'they  should  remain  over 
night;  then  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  rub  them  through  a  seive  and 
mix  thoroughly  together.  Keep  the  powder  in  a  bottle,  from  which 
the  air  should  be  completely  excluded.  This  receipt  is  given,  as 
many  persons  prefer  to  make  their  curry  powder  at  home,  but  that 
purchased,  is,  generally  speaking,  far  superior,  and  very  frequently 
more  economical. 

CURRIED  BEEF. — A  fe\v  slices  of  tolerably  lean  roasted,  or  boil- 
ed beef,  3  ozs.  of  butter,  2  onions,  i  wineglassful  of  beer,  i  dessert 
spoonful  of  currypowder ;  cut  the  beef  into  pieces  about  3  inches 
square,  put  the  butter  in  a  stewpan  with  the  sliced  onions  and  fry 
them  of  a  light  brown  color ,  add  all  the  ingredients  and  stir  gently 
over  a  brisk  fire  for  about  10  minutes.  Should  this  be  thought  too 
dry,  more  beer,  or  a  spoonful  or  two  of  grog  or  water  may  be  added, 
but  a  good  curry  should  not  be  thin.  Place  in  a  deep  dish  with  an 
edging  of  boiled  rice,  in  the  same  manner  for  the  curries.  Cook  10 
minutes.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

INDIAN  MUSTARD. — One  quarter  pound  of  the  best  mustard,  1-4 
lb.  of  flour,  1-2  lb  of  salt,  4  shalots,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  4 
tablespoonsuls  of  catsup  1-2  bottle  of  andury  sauce.  Put  the  mus-~ 
tard,  flour  and  salt  into  a  basin  and  make  into  a  stift  paste  with  boil- 
ing water  Boil  the  shalots  with  the  catsup,  vinegar,  and  anchovy 
sauce  for  10  minutes,  and  pour  the  whole  (boiling)  over  the  mixture 
in  the  basin.  Stir  well  and  reduce  to  a  proper  thickness,  put  into  a 
b>  ttle,  with  a  bruised  shalot  at  the  bottom,  and  store  away  for  use. 
This  makes  an  excellent  relish,  and  if  properly  prepared,  will  keep 
for  years. 

A  WET  CURRY. — Of  whatever  ingredient,  cut  it  into  small  pieces  ; 
put  them,  with  2  or  3  onions,  sliced,  into  a  stew-pan,  fry  them  till 
brown.  When  done,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  the  curry-powder,  and 
some  salt  and  simmer  the  whole  gently  with  a  little  water  or  broth, 
until  sufficiently  cooked.  Stir  constantly. 

To  MAKE  A  CURRY  OF  LOBSTERS.— Having  taken  the  edible  sub- 
stance from  the  shells,  lay  it  in  a  pan,  with  a  little  mace,  3  spoonfuls 
of  veal  gravy,  and  4  of  cream,  rub  smooth  i  or  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
curry-powder,  i  of  flour,  and  i  oz.  of  butter,  simmer,  these  together 
for  an  hour;  squeeze  therein  the  juice  of  1-2  lemon  and  add  some 
salt.  Prawns  may  be  used  instead  of  lobsters.  Add  rice,  as 

usual. 

CURRIED  MUTTON. — The  remains  of  any  joint  of  cold  mutton,  2 
onions,  1-4  lb.  ofbutter,  i  dessert-spoonful  of  curry-powder,  salt  to 


340  CURRIES. 

taste,  1-4  pint  of  stock  or  water.  Slice  the  onions  in  thin  rings,  and 
put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  butter  and  fry  of  alight  brown, 
stir  in  the  curry-powder,  flour  and  salt,  and  mix  all  well  together  ;  cut 
the  meat  in  thin  slices,  (if  there  is  not  enough  to  do  this,  it  may  be 
minced)  and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients  ;  when  well  browned  add 
the  stock  or  gravy,  and  stew  gently  for  1-2  an  hour.  Serve  in  a  dish 
with  a  border  of  boiled  rice,  the  same  as  for  other  curries.  Cook 
1-2  hour. 

CURRIED  FOWL  OR  CHICKEN. — The  remains  of  cold  roast  fowls,  2 
onions,  i  apple,  2  ozs.  of  butter,  i  dessert-spoonful  of  curry-powder, 
i  teaspoonful  of  flour,  1-2  pint  of  gravy,  i  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice.  Skin  the  onions,  peel,  core,  and  chop  the  apple,  and  cut  the 
fowl  into  neat  joints  ;  fry  these  in  the  butter,  of  a  light  brown,  then 
add  the  currypowder,  flour  and  gravy,  and  stew  for  about  20  minutes. 
Put  in  the  lemon  juice,  and  serve  with  boiled  rice,  either  placed  in  a 
ledge  round  the  dish,  or  separately.  2  or  3  shalots  or  a  little  garlic 
may  be  added,  if  approved.  Altogether,  cook  1-2  hour. 

CURRY. — Slice  6  onions,  i  green  apple,  and  a  clove  of  garlic  ; 
stew  them  in  a  little  good  beef,  mutton  or  fowl  broth,  until  they  will 
pulp,  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  currypowder,  a  few  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  broth,  a  little  salt  and  a  few  cayenne  peppers,  a  pinch  of  each. 
Stir  in  this  gravy  any  kind  of  meat,  cut  into  small  pieces,  adding  a 
piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut,  rolled  in  butter. 

CURRY  SAUCE. — This  recipe  is  from  Captain  White,  who  resided 
for  20  years  in  the  East  Indies. — Take  2  good  sized  apples  and  4 
large  onions,  and  4  ozs.  each  of  sweet  butter  and  lean  ham.  Slice 
the  apples  and  onions  and  put  them  all  into  a  stewpan,with  a  blade 
of  mace,  2  sprigs  of  thyme,  4  pepper  corns,  and  2  bay  leaves.  Stir 
over  the  fire,  until  the  onions  become  brown  and  tender,  then  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  best  curry  powder,  i  of  vinegar,  2  of  flour,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  of  sugar.  Moisten  it  with  a  little  broth,  milk, 
cream  or  water,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  glaze;  boil  till  in  a  mass 
and  sticking  to  the  back  of  the  spoon,  strain  it  and  boil  again  for  a 
few  minutes ;  put  it  in  a  covered  jar.  In  the  winter  it  will  keep  for 
months.  A  spoonful  of  this  may  be  used  instead  of  curry  powder 
for  currying  meat,  fowl,  fish,  game,  or  for  rewarming  it  in  this  sauce. 
Eaten  with  well  boiled  and  dry  rice.  This  sauce  should  be  boiled 
over  now  and  then. 

CURRY,  (Contributed  by  Miss  Lillie  B.  Happer,  Canton,  China. — 
Take  one  onion,  some  garlic,  some  red  pepper,  and  chop  very  fine, 
put  in  a  skillet  and  fry  till  brown,  then  stir  in  some  curry  powder  to 
taste,  and  add  boiling  water  till  you  think  it  is  thin  enough,  then  put 
in  whatever  meat  you  choose,  chicken,  fish  or  mutton,  all  cut  up, 
add  butter  if  you  like,  and  boil  a  short  time.  Serve  hot  with  rice. 


COFFEE. 


TEA— CHOCOLATE. 


341 


LEMON  IN  TEA — (Spanish.) — Put  a  very  thin  slice  of  lemon  on 
top  of  the  sugar  in  the  cup,  then  pour  the  tea  over  ;  no  cream  is 
used. 

TEA — How  TO  MAKE  IT. — To  prevent  sleep  and  yet  not  feel  lan- 
guid.— To  weak,  green  tea  add  a  little  brandy,  sugar  and  lemon 
juice. 

A  NEW  WAY  TO  MAKE  TEA.  — Put  the  tea  in  the  pot  and  let  them 
both  become  hot  by  degrees,  then  pour  over  the  boiling  water  and 
let  it  stand  for  5  or  6  minutes  in  a  hot  place. 

NOTE — The  leaves  and  pot  should  heat  for  10  or  15  minutes. 

THE  English  make  the  best  tea. 

GOOD  black  tea  is  generally  admitted  to  be  the  most  beneficial 
and  the  least  prejudicial,  but  most  persons  prefer  it  with  a  mixture 
of  the  green  in  equal  parts.-  Green  alone  is  certainly  injurious. 

CHOCOLATE--HOW  TO  MAKE. — One-half  pound  of  ground  choco- 
late, a  little  each  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  vanilla,  3  cups  of  water. 
4  cups  of  milk ;  first  boil  the  grated  chocolate,  the  spices  and  water 
together,  then  add  the  milk,  stirring  well  all  the  time,  then  set  it  on 
the  fire  or  hot  ashes  to  boil  for  3-4  of  an  hour  ;  sweeten  to  taste.  If 
sweet  or  spiced  chocolate  be  used,  use  but  little  sugar  or  spice. 

CHOCOLATE  MILK. — Dissolve  i  large  spoonful  of  chocolate  in  2  1-2 
cups  of  milk,  new  and  sweet. 

CHOCOLATE  should  not  be  made  until  the  moment  it  is  wanted, 
because  heating  injures  the  flavor,  destroys  the  froth  and  separates 
the  body  of  the  chocolate,  the  oil  rising  to  the  top  after  a  short  boil- 
ing, or  remaining  long  by  the  fire,  which  is  the  principal,  if  not  the 
only  cause  why  chocolate  disagrees  with  delicate  stomachs.  Ifrightly 
prepared  it  is  both  nutritive  and  wholesome. 

COFFEE. 

SPANISH  OR  ST.  DOMINGO  WAV  TO  MAKE  COFFEE. — Put  the  de- 
sired quantity  of  coffee  in  a  flannel  bag,  and  then  pour  over  boiling 
water,  but  do  not  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  but  shake  the  pot  of  boiling 
fluid  well,  pouring  it  back  and  forth,  then  pour  out  and  serve  in  small 
cups  without  cream  or  sugar ;  it  is  delightful.  This  is  the  way  the 
Spanish  residents  make  coffee  on  Island  of  St.  Domingo. 

NOTE — The  coffee  is  always  beaten  in  a  mortar,  which  causes  it 
to  retain  the  greater  portion  of  its  aroma.  A  hundred  cups  of  coffee 
can  be  made  in  this  way  at  once,  and  can  be  kept  hot  without  boil- 
ing. 


342  COFFEE. 

COFFEE — How  TO  MAKE  IT. — Put  2  ounces  of  ground  or  beaten 
coffee  into  a  stew  pan,  then  set  it  upon  the  fire,  and  with  an  iron 
spoon  stir  the  powder  well  till  quite  hot,  then  pour  over  it  2  cups  of 
boiling  water,  then  put  the  cover  on  for  5  minutes ;  strain  it  through 
a  cloth  and  put  in  a  pot,  and  rewarm  it  and  serve. 

COFFEE,  TO  MAKE  IN  THE  OLD  STYLE. — One  teacupful  of  ground 
coffee,  moisten  with  the  white  of  an  egg  and  cold  water  stirred  well 
together,  pour  on  boiling  water,  set  it  on  the  stove  and  let  it  boil 
up  3  times,  stir  it  down  twice  with  a  spoon,  but  the  third  time  pour 
in  1-2  cup  of  cold  water,  let  stand  2  or  3  minutes  and  serve  boiling 
hot.  It  is  elegant. 

COFFEE — A  NEW  WAY  TO  MAKE  WHEN  IN  A  HURRY. — Put  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  coffee  into  a  sauce  pan,  then  put  it  on  the  fire,  then  stir 
it  with  an  iron  spoon  until  it  becomes  quite  hot,  then  pour  over  it  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  then  put  the  top  on  and  boil  for  4  or  5  minutes, 
then  strain  and  re-warm  it  and  serve.  Sugar  and  cream  or  milk  can 
be  added  to  taste. 

To  AVOID  COFFEF,  LOSING  ITS  STRENGTH — When  the  roasting  is 
completed,  while  hot,  put  1-2  ounce  of  white  or  brown  sugar  to  i  Ib. 
of  coffee ;  the  sugar  melts  immediately  ;  by  well  shaking  or  turning 
the  roaster  quickly  it  spreads  all  over  the  berries  and  gives  each  one 
a  fine  glaze.  It  then  has  a  shining  appearance  as  if  covered 
with  varnish,  and  has  no  smell,  which  returns  when  ground  in  a  high 
degree.  When  roasted  the  grains  should  be  opened,  if  heaped  to- 
gether it  causes  them  to  sweat  and  lose  their  strength. 

ARABIAN  MANNER  OF  SETTLING  COFFEE. — Dip  a  cloth  in  cold  wa- 
ter and  wrap  it  around  the  hot  coffee  pot,  and  it  will  clear  rapidly. 

To  PRESERVE  GROUND  COFFEE. — Wet  ground  coffee  i  Ib.  with  3 
oz.  of  sugar,  or  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  then  spread  it  oul  in  the 
open  air  to  dry.  The  sugar  locks  up  all  the  volatile  parts,  so  that 
when  it  dries,  it  does  not  escape.  It  will  keep  a  month  in  this  way 
if  exposed  to  the  air. 

How  TO  MAKE  IT,  THUS  PRESERVED. — Pour  cold  water  over  the 
powder,  and  boil  it.  It  makes  as  good  a  beverage,  as  if  just  roasted. 

TO  MAKE  COFFKE  AS  USED    BY    BONAPARTE. — Put    the    ground  Cof- 

fee  into  a  vessel  with  a  strainer,  and  pour  the  water  on  it  perfect- 
ly cold,  plunge  this  vesel  into  another,  filled  with  boiling  water,  which 
must  be  kept  at  the  boiling  point  until  the  process  is  completed. 
This  method  is  thought  to  preserve  the  flavor  of  the  coffee  perfectly. 
To  ROAST  COFFEE.  (A  French  recipe.) — It  is  acknowledged  that 
the  French  coffee  is  decidedly  superior  to  any  other,  and  as  the 
roasting  of  the  berry  is  of  great  importance  to  the  flavor  of  the  pre- 
paration, it  will  be  useful  and  interesting  to  know  how  they  manage 
these  things  in  France.  In  Paris  there  are  two  houses,  justly  cele- 


BREAKFAST,  LUNCH     AND  TEA.  343 

brated  for  the  flavor  of  their  coffee.  La  Maison  Circdett  and  La 
Maison  Soger  de  Chartres,  and  to  obtain  this  flavor  before  roast- 
ing they  add  to  every  3  Ibs,  of  coffee  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
nut,  and  a  dessert  spoonful  of  powdered  sugar ;  it  is  then  roasted 
in  the  usual  manner.  The  addition  of  the  butter  and  sugar  devel- 
ope  the  flavor  and  aroma  of  the  berry :  it  must  be  borne  in  mind, 
that  the  quality  of  the  butter  must  be  of  the  very  best  description. 

COFFEE,  TURKISH  FASHION. — When  the  water  has  just  come  to 
boil,  add  the  coffee  and  sugar  ;  mix  well,  as  above,  and  give  just  a 
boil  and  serve.  The  grounds  of  coffee  will  in  a  few  seconds  fall  to 
the  bottom  of  the  cups.  The  Turks  wisely  leave  it  there;  and  I  would 
advise  every  one  to  do  the  same. 

CAFE  AH  LAIT. — This  is  merely  very  strong  coffee,  added  to  a  large 
proportion  of  good  hot  milk,  about  6  tablespoonfuls  of  strong  coffee 
being  quite  sufficient  for  a  breakfast-cupful  of  milk.  Of  the  essence 
which  answers  admirably  for  Cafe  au  Lait,  so  much  would  not  be 
required.  This  preparation  is  infinitely  superior  to  the  weak,  watery 
coffee  so  often  served  at  tables.  A  little  cream,  mixed  with  the 
milk,  if  the  latter  cannot  be  depended  on  for  richness,  improves  the 
taste  of  the  coffee,  so  also  the  richness  of  the  beverage.  Six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  strong  coffee,  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  essence,  to  a 
breakfast-cupful  of  milk. 

THE  ORDINARY  ENGLISH  METHOD. — The  coffee  and  water  are 
put  into  the  pot  at  the  same  time,  and  boiled  for  10  minutes  ;  a  cup- 
ful is  then  turned  off  and  returned  to  the  pot,  and  allowed  to  stand 
5  minutes,  when  it  will,  or  ought  to  become  clear. 

BREAKFAST,  LUNCH    AND  TEA. 

CAROLINA  ROLLS — D.  C. — Take  1-2  pint  of  yeast,  i  quart  of 
water,  warm  sweet  milk  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  light  sponge; 
next  morning  add  1-2  pint  of  cold  water  and  1-2  Ib.  of  butter ; 
stir  it  well  and  add  flour  enough  to  make  it  tolerably  stiff,  let  it  stand 
i  hour  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  after  making  it  into  small  cakes. 

BREAKFAST  ROLLS — Stella. — Two  quarts  of  flour,  i  tablespoon- 
ful  even  ot  sugar  and  butter,  1-2  cup  of  yeast,  i  pint  of  scalded 
milk  or  warm  water  ;  if  milk  is  scarce,  a  little  salt.  Set  to  rise  until 
light,  then  knead  until  hard,  and  set  to  rise,  and  when  wanted  make 
into  rolls,  then  oil  each  roll  with  sweet  butter  or  lard  and  and  set 
them  rather  upright  and  close  together  in  the  oven,  and  in  the  cen- 
tre place  3  long  rolls ;  set  to  rise  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

YEAST  ROLLS. — For  this  kind  of  roll  take  the  same  dough  as  for 
steam  nudels ;  it  is  best  to  fill  them  with  boiled  fruit.  After  the 
dough  has  risen  roll  it  as  thin  as  possible,  then  the  fruit  spread 


344  BREAKFAST,    LUNCH  AND  TEA. 

upon  it,  rolled  up,  put  into  a  buttered  pan  and  placed  in  a  warm 
spot  to  rise.  Some  melted  butter  is  again  spread  over  it,  then 
bake  it  slowly  in  an  oven  until  of  a  light  brown  color,  the  yeast 
rolls  can  be  sent  to  the  table  warm  or  cold. 

GOLDEN  GATE  ROLLS. — One  pound  of  flour  and  i  pound  of  but- 
ter worked  together  with  egg,  i  gill  of  yeast  and  as  much  luke- 
warm water  as  will  make  a  soft  dough ;  cover  it  with  flour  and 
put  it  to  rise  until  light ;  flour  your  board  and  make  into  small 
rolls  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These  are  very  nice  for  tea  with 
invited  company. 

DIXIE  CORN  CAKE. — (Mrs.  Miller,  Santa  Clara,  Cal.) — One  coffee 
cupful  of  grits  (fine  hominy)  boiled  soft,  an  equal  quantity  of 
white  corn  meal  stirred  into  the  grits  while  hot,  when  sufficiently 
cool  stir  in  briskly  5  well  beaten  eggs,  1-2  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter ;  salt  to  taste ;  bake  in  a  deep  but- 
tered dish  or  pan. 

CORN  BATTER  CAKES. — 4  cups  of  boiling  water  or  boiling  milk 
mixed  with  2  cups  of  meal ;  when  warm  work  in  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  3  eggs  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  on  a  griddle. 

SAMP  OR  HOMINY  CAKES. — Take  i  pint  of  small  hominy  that 
is  cooked  soft,  mix  with  i  pint  of  wheat  flour,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  little  milk  mixed  with  or  without  eggs ;  fry  them  on  a  griddle 
and  eat  as  buckwheat  cakes. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES — (Mrs.  B.) — i  pint  warmed  milk,  into  which 
stir  in  a  tearup  of  buckwheat  flour,  2  tablespoons  of  yeast,  some 
salt,  2  well  beaten  eggs  ;  let  rise,  and  when  light,  bake.  Or  you 
may  take  2  cups  of  wheat  flour  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
corn  meal,  and  mix  with  tepid  water  until  it  is  a  thick  batter;  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  yeast  and  set  it  to  rise  an  hour,  pour  in  a 
little  milk  until  of  the  consistency  of  waffle  batter  and  let  it  stand 
2  hours  in  a  warm  place.  Do  not  grease  the  griddle  but  once  ; 
serve  with  melted  butter  in  a  boat. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. — Newfield,  N.  Y.,  recipe — (Mrs.  L.  M.  Kel- 
logg-)— First  m'x  the  flour  and  water  with  a  little  white  corn  meal, 
a  little  yeast,  hard  (leaven)  or  soft  to  raise  it,  set  it  all  night  in  a 
moderately  warm  place  next  morning,  thin  it  to  suit  with  butter 
or  sour  milk,  adding  some  salt.  Grease  your  griddle  well  while 
hot  with  salt  pork  or  the  cakes  will  stick  to  it ;  put  on  your  bat- 
ter and  fry.  Serve  very  hot"  with  butter  or  molasses  at  table. 
The  authoress  has  often  eaten  Mrs.  Kellog's  superior  buckwheat 
cakes,  and  trusts  that  enterprising  farmers  will  introduce  the  supe- 
rior buckwheat  and  let  it  form  one  of  the  staples  of  the  whole 
Union. 

MY  AUNT'S  GRIDDLE  CAKES. — Two  cupfuls  of  sour  milk,  1-2  cup- 


BREAKFAST,    LUNCH   AND  TEA.  345 

ful  of  molasses  or  2  spoonfuls  of  brown  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
a  heaping  cupful  of  flour  and  Indian  meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Add  a  little  salt  and  fry  on  a  well  greased  clean  griddle. 

FILLED  MILK  ROLLS. — Rub  off  the  crust  of  4  milk  rolls  on  a  grater, 
make  incisions  about  the  width  of  a  finger  apart  into -each,  nearly 
through,  take  care  not  to  cut  entirely  through.  Fill  these  incisions  with 
the  following  ingredients:  Almonds  shelled  cut  lengthwise;  well  picked 
and  washed  currants  and  raisins  in  equal  quantities,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  citron  cut  into  little  dice,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon  peel, 
the  same  of  ground  cinnamon  and  3  tablespoonfuls  ot  fine  sugar, 
all  of  which  is  to  be  well  mixed.  Now  after  the  incisions  are  filled 
tie  them  around  with  a  piece  of  twine  and  let  them  soak  in  eight 
whole  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  up  well  with  the  3  pints  of  cold 
milk  and  a  little  salt,  then  put  them  into  a  colander  to  drain  off. 
Fry  them  on  all  sides  to  a  nice  gold  yellow  color.  Let  them  stand 
for  a  few  minutes  upon  blotting  paper,  then  take  off  the  twine, 
turn  them  in  sugar,  dish  them  with  some  appropriate  sauce  and 
serve. 

ROLLS,  GRAHAM,  FOR  BREAKFAST. — Rub  through  a  colander  2  Ibs. 
of  soft  boiled  Irish  potatoes,  then  add  2  cups  of  water,  1-2  cup  of 
sugar,  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1-2  cupful  of  hop  yeast,  then 
stir  it  with  Graham  flour,  making  a  stiff  dough.  Set  it  to  rise  over 
night ;  in  the  morning  make  it  into  small  cakes.  Set  to  rise,  and 
when  light,  bake.  Graham  flour  should  never  be  sifted. 

MUTTON  CHOPS. — Mrs.  T.  B.  L. — Trim  the  chops,  beat  them  well, 
chop  to  mincemeat,  taking  care  not  to  separate  the  meat  from 
the  bone,  chop  both  sides  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Have 
ready  some  bread  crumbs  and  2  well  beaten  eggs,  dip  the  chops 
first  into  the  eggs,  then  into  the  crumbs,  put  into  the  frying  pan  2 
ounces  of  butter;  when  it  browns  put  in  the  chops,  fry  slowly  and 
never  turn  them  till  they  look  firm  and  the  gravy  comes  up.  Turn 
them  and  brown  them  on  the  other  side,  which  takes  from  5  to  10 
minutes.  When  they  feel  solid  they  are  done.  Brown  sauce  fla- 
vored with  chopped  onion  and  parsley,  a  dessert  spoonful  of  flour 
browned  stirred  in  an  ounce  of  butter 

ARTIFICIAL  OYSTERS. — Grate  green  corn  in  a  dish;  to  2  cups  of 
this  add  i  egg  well  beaten,  a  small  teacup  of  flour,  i  teacup  of  but- 
ter or  less,  some  salt  and  pepper;  mix  them  well  together.  A  table- 
spoonful  of  the  batter  will  make  the  size  of  the  oyster.  Fry  them  a 
light  brown,  and  when  done  butter  them  ;  cream  is  better  than 
butter. 

MUSHROOMS  TO  COOK. — i  cupful  of  water;  cook  11-2  hours  ;  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  with  a  silver 
spoon  in  a  porcelain  kettle. 


346  BREAKFAST,   LUNCH    AND  TEA. 

RELISH  FOR  BREAKFAST  OR  LUNCH. — Take  1-4  pound  of  good 
fresh  cheese,  cut  it  up  into  thin  slices  and  put  it  in  a  spider,  turning 
over  it  a  large  cupful  of  sweet  milk;  add  a  large  pinch  of  dry  mus- 
tard, a  dash  of  pepper,  a  little  salt  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as 
a  guinea's  egg ;  stir  the  mixture  all  the  time  ;  powder  or  roll  3  soda 
crackers,  sprinkle  them  in  gradually ;  as  soon  as  they  are  stirred  in 
turn  the  contents  into  a  warm  dish  and  serve. 

A  NICE  BREAKFAST  DISH. — Take  some  stale  bread,  cut  in  slices, 
make  a  batter  of  eggs,  little  sugar,  1-2  cup  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  cin- 
namon ;  dip  the  bread  well  in  the  batter,  then  fry  in  a  pan  with 
plenty  of  butter.  When  well  done  strew  over  with  fine  sugar. 

GREEN  TOMATOES  FRIED. — Wash  and  slice  tomatoes  very  thin 
and  drop  them  in  the  coldest  water  you  have,  let  remain  i  hour, 
then  salt  and  pepper  them,  drop  in  pancake  batter  and  fry  in  boil- 
ing lard  of  a  nice  brown.  Serve  hot. 

ROAST  BEEF  WITH  YORKSHIRE  PUDDING.  —  Rub  salt  and 
pepper  over  the  beef,  put  it  in  a  dripping-pan,  cover  the  bot- 
tom with  water,  with  the  drippings  bas.te  the  meat  often  and  turn 
the  meat  and  baste  as  before  ;  3-4  hour  before  it  is  done  take  out 
the  meat  and  pour  off  most  of  the  dripping,  and  put  in  the  butter 
and  the  meat  and  finish  roasting  ;  add  some  hot  water  to  the  drip- 
ping and  thicken  with  flour  the  gravy. 

To  BOIL  A  STUFFED  TURKEY. — Take  a  young  turkey  weighing  7 
or  8  pounds,  with  bread,  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  mixed  parsley ; 
skewer  up  the  legs  and  wings  as  if  to  roast,  flour  a  cloth  and  pin 
around  it ;  boil  4  minutes,  then  set  off  the  kettle  and  let  it  stand 
close  covered  1-2  hour  or  more.  The  steam  will  cook  it  sufficiently. 
To  be  eaten  with  drawn  butter  and  stewed  oysters. 

MILK  OR  CREAM  GRAVY  FOR  BAKED  POTATOES. — i  quart  of  milk, 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  made  into  a  smooth  batter  with  rich 
milk  or  cream.  Boil  the  milk  and  pour  in  the  batter,  stirring  all  the 
while.  Let  it  boil  2  or  3  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in 
immediately  a  well  beaten  egg.  Very  nice ;  excellent  for  lunch  or 
breakfast. 

IRISH  STEW. — Put  into  a  proper  sized  stew  pan  2  1-4  Ibs.  of  neck 
of  mutton  or  lamb,  or  any  part,  cut  into  small  pieces  with  some  of 
the  fat  pieces  cut  small,  put  in  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt,  a  good  pinch 
each  of  pepper  and  sugar,  5  or  six  medium  sized  onions,  2  pints  of 
water;  boil,  and  then  simmer  for  30  minutes,  then  add  6  medium - 
sized  Irish  potatoes,  which  cut  in  2  or  4  pieces,  stir  well,  then  boil 
for  a  full  hour  very  gently.  You  can  skim  off  the  grease,  but  the 
potatoes  will  absorb  that.  It  is  an  appetizing  dish.  Try  it. 

FRIED  SAUSAOES  WIIH  SPINACH  OR  OTHER  VEGETABLES. — Fry  the 
sausages  or  meat  a  nice  brown,  press  the  nicely  boiled  spinach  or  cab- 


BREAKFAST,    T.UNCH   AND  TEA.  347 

bage  to  free  it  from  water,  chop  fine  and  lay  it  in  a  steak  dish, 
lay  the  sausages  upon  the  top,  put  a  little  hot  vinegar  to  the  gravy 
in  the  pan  and  pour  over  it ;  or  mashed  potatoes,  stewed  pumpkin, 
or  boiled  hominy  may  do  in  the  place  of  spinach.  For  dinner  and 
breakfast. 

WAFFLES — Mrs.  R. — To  i  quart  of  flour  add  an  egg  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  yeast,  make  these  to  a  thin  batter  with  milk,  then  put  in  2  ozs. 
of  butter  and  set  to  rise.  It  is  better  to  make  the  batter  early  in 
the  morning  or  over  night. 

WAFFLE  SAUCE — Scald  2  cups  of  new  milk  or  sweet  cream,  and 
while  taking  from  the  fire  stir  2  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  into  it.  When  melted  serve  up  with  the  waffles, 

WAFFLES — Mrs.  R.  S.  Robinson,  San  Fransisco,  Cal.— Beat  well 
the  whites  and  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs  separately,  then  have  ready  some 
sour  milk  that  has  been  turned  on  the  stove  or  near  the  fire,  then 
stir  to  it  a  very  little  soda,  a  little  salt,  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then 
stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter.  Have  your 
irons  clean,  well  greased  and  hot,  pour  in  the  batter ;  as  you  take 
the  waffles  out  butter  them  well  and  keep  hot  in  the  stove  until 
served. 

NOTE — The  whites  beaten  to  a  solid  foam  should  be  added  a  por- 
tion at  a  time  and  stirred  in  the  batter  as  you  make  the  waffles.  If 
you  have  but  little  milk,  mix  water  with  it,  or  use  water  altogether. 
Bacon  grease  is  better  than  lard  to  fry  waffles  with. 

AMERICAN  RAISED  WAFFLES. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  i  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  thick  brewer's  yeast,  i  quart  of  flour,  another  tea- 
spoonful  of  sweet  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1-4  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Let  it  rise  until  light,  then  bake  as  other  waffles.  Serve  with  butter 
and  sugar. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. — Put  into  1-2  gallon  pitcher  3  cups  of  luke- 
warm water,  to  this  add  1-2  cupful  of  baker's  yeast  with  a  little  salt, 
then  stir  in  enough  fresh  buckwheat  to  make  a  thick  batter  ;  cover 
the  pitcher  after  beating  the  batter  thoroughly,  and  set  it  to  rise  over 
night.  Next  morning  stir  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  then  dis- 
solve 1-4  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Beat  the 
whole  well  together  and  pour  the  batter  from  the  pitcher  upon  a  well 
greased  and  heated  griddle. 

CREAM  COOKIES, — Take  1-2  pint  of  cream,  i  pound  of  sugar  and 
i  egg,  beat  them  together,  then  add  1-2  cupful  of  sour  milk,  1-2 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  roll;  roll  out  thin,  cut  them 
out  with  a  cake-cutter,  moisten  them  on  the  top  with  a  little  cold 
water,  sift  over  them  a  little  white  granulated  sugar  in  which  has 
been  grated  some  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


348  BREAKFAST,    LUNCH  AND  TEA. 

A  CREOLE  LADY'S  BRF.AKFAST.  (Excellent  for  digestion.) — A  fig 
with  a  cup  of  coffee. 

FJ.  BATING  ISLAM i >s.  (A  colonial  recipe.) — Six  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately,  add  to  the  yolks  i  1-2  pints  or  more  of  rich 
new  milk,  a  cup  of  loaf  sugar,  nutmeg  or  lemon  to  taste;  heat  al- 
most to  a  boiling  point,  or  until  it  thickens,  dish  and  spread  the 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  solid  froth,  over;  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

APPLES  IN  BATTER. — Take  several  medium  sized  apples,  pare  and 
core  them,  place  them  in  a  dish,  make  a  rich  batter  and  pour  over 
them.  Bake  for  one  hour ;  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

COCOANUT  BISCUITS. — Add  the  same  weight  of  sugar  of  4  grated 
cocoanuts,  together  with  enough  whites  of  eggs  to  form  a  softish  but 
thick  paste,  beat  with  a  w  toden  spoon  till  smooth,  then  lay  the  mix- 
ture upon  wafer  paper  in  small  drops  or  biscuits  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven. 

BEATEN  BISCUITS.  (Mrs.  E.  A.  Watson.) — Two  quarts  of  flour,  2 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet,  pure  lard  ;  mix  with  cold  water,  till 
the  dough  is  very  stiff.  Beat  the  dough  till  it  blisters. 

BEATEN  BISCUITS,  (Another  way.) — Three  and  a  halfpints  of  flour 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  1-2  pint  of  milk,  1-2  pint  of  hot  water,  i 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  keep  out  one  pint  of  flour, 
and  when  the  other  is  mixed  up  into  a  stiff  dough,  then,  as  you  beat 
the  dough,  sprinkle  in  the  dry  flour.  Beat  hard  with  the  broad  end 
of  an  ax,  a  rolling  pin,  or  mallet  for  1-2  hour,  or  until  the  dough  be- 
comes white  and  smooth. 

WALA  WALA  BISCUITS  FOR  BREAKFAST.  (A  Housekeeper.) — Make 
a  batter  of  milk  and  flour,  the  richer  the  milk  the  better,  cream  pre- 
ferable, but  water  will  do,  keep  it  warm  until  it  rises,  make  your 
dough  up  entirely  with  this,  pouring  it  upon  the  flour,  add  salt,  sal- 
eratus  or  soda  in  the  yeast,  according  to  the  sourness  of  the  yeast  and 
the  quantity  of  the  flour,  which  should  not  be  added  too  fast ;  work 
the  dough  thoroughly,  add  some  butter  or  lard,  make  your  biscuits 
out  and  bake  in  a  well  greased  skillet  or  oven.  To  raise  the  biscuit, 
someplace  them  for  1-2  an  hour  over  the  top  of  a  teakettle,  which 
causes  them  to  rise  better,  before  baking.  Should  be  buttered  and 
eaten  while  hot,  or  they  are  not  so  good. — W.  T. 

APPLE  CHARLOTTE. — This  excellent  and  healthy  dish  is  seldom 
seen,  but  it  has  only  to  be  tried  once  to  learn  its  excellence.  The 
recipe  is  very  simple.  Put  in  a  tolerably  small  bread  pan  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  set  it  where  it  will  melt,  then  pare, 
quarter  and  core  a  few  apples,  halve  the  quarters,  if  they  are  large, 
make  them  into  thirds ;  now  place  in  the  buttered  pan  as  many 
slices  or  pieces  of  bread  as  will  cover  the  bottom,  then  a  la^fer  of  ap- 
ples, a  little  sugar,  and  4  or  5  little  chips  of  butter ;  another  layer  of 


BREAKFAST,    LUNCH    AND  TEA.  349 

bread,  another  layer  of  apples,  and  so  on  until  it  is  enough  for  dinner, 
or  until  the  pan  is  full;  butter  the  upper  layer  of  bread.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot  and  browns  the  top  too  fast  before 
the  center  bakes,  with  a  spoon  drip  a  little  hot  water  over  it.  Serve 
hot,  with  or  without  sauce. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE.  (Mrs.  Barringer.) — One  pint  of  milk,  12  eggs, 
1-2  pound  of  sugar,  i  pint  of  rich  cream,  and  i  pint  of  jelly.  Make 
a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs,  sugar,  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Dissolve  the  jelly,  and  add  it  to  the  custard,  and  stir  the  whole  till  it 
is  cold,  and  about  as  thick  as  the  thickest  molasses,  then  beat  in  the 
cream,  which  has  been  previously  whipped,  and  pour  into  moulds 
lined  with  sponge  cake.  If  the  weather  is  warm,  set  it  on  the  ice, 
and  let  it  remain  for  nearly  an  hour  and  turn  out  in  a  china  dish. 
Ice  the  whole  with  icing  prepared  as  for  cake,  and  when  it  is  dry, 
put  some  icing  in  a  paper  horn  and  run  over  it  in  a  fanciful  form; 
set  in  a  refrigerator  until  wanted.  Omit  the  icing  if  you  choose.  In- 
stead of  a  mould,  you  may  take  a  large,  round  sponge  cake,  turn  it 
bottom  upwards,  and  cut  off  a  slice  an  inch  thick,  then  remove  the 
whole  of  the  inside,  leaving  a  shell  an  inch  thick.  Pour  the  mixture 
in  this,  put  on  the  bottom  slice  and  set  on  ice. 

To  CURRY  EGGS.  (Mrs.  Medhurst  of  Calcutta.) — 12  eggs,  i  gill  of 
sweet  cream  or  new  milk.  2  cups  of  broth  (chicken  or  any  kind  of 
meat  broth),  a  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  and  enough  arrow  root 
or  corn  starch  to  thicken,  (or  rice  flour).  Then  slice  a  large  onion 
and  fry  it  brown  in  butter;  then  stir  in  the  curry  powder  and  broth, 
till  well  mixed,  set  on  the  fire  and  simmer  slowly  till  the  onions  are 
soft  and  tender,  then  stir  together  the  arrow-root,  corn  starch  or  rice 
flour,  till  a  smooth  paste  is  formed,  and  stir  this  in  the  cream  and  let 
it  boil  slowly  for  a  few  minutes,  then  have  your  eggs  boiled  hard  and 
cut  into  2  or  4  pieces ;  then  heat  them  in  the  curry  mixture  thorough- 
ly, but  by  no  means  let  them  come  to  boiling  heat,  then  place  them 
on  a  hot  dish,  with  the  cut  sides  downwards,  in  a  neat  manner,  then 
pour  the  sauce  over  them.  Cook  25  minutes.  Delicious. 

WAFERS,  MY  AUNT'S  WAY  TO  MAKE  THEM, — Mix  4  oz.  of  melted, 
fresh  and  sweet  butter  with  a  cupful  of  flour. 

WINE  WAFERS.  (Mrs.  N.) — One  pound  of  flour,  1-4  Ib.  of  butter, 
a  well  beaten  egg,  a  large  wineglass  of  wine,  and  1-2  of  a  nutmeg. 
Bake  in  wafer  irons,  a  light  brown,  and  roll  up  as  a  scroll  while  hot. 

MACAROONS. — One-half  pound  of  blanched  and  pounded  almonds, 
the  white  of  i  egg,  spoonful  of  orange  flower  water  and  12  ozs. 
sugar;  pound  these  together  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  then 
a^d  the  beaten  white  of  another  egg  and  a  very  little  flour  sprink- 
led in ;  drop  on  buttered  paper,  bake  on  tins  in  a  quick  oven  for 
1-4  hour  till  of  a  full  brown  color. 


350  BREAKFAST,     LUNCH  AND  TEA. 

SUGAR  GINGKR  BREAD. — One  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  milk,  i 
piece  of  butter  1-2  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  i  scant  teaspoonful 
of  saleratus,  and  flour  enough  to  make  it  stiff  as  molasses  ginger 
bread.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg. 

SOFT  MOLASSES  CAKES — Mrs,  Webster's. — One  quart  molasses, 
3  eggs,  i  pint  buttermilk,  1-2  pint  lard,  2  heaped  tablespoonfuls 
of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk  ;  cinnamon  and  ginger  to  taste.  Flour 
to  make  a  dough  by  working  it. 

CAKKS,  GINGER — A  plantation  recipe. — With  2  pounds  of  flour, 
i-rjf.  pound  powdered  sugar,  i  pound  sugar,  1-2  pound  butter,  2  cups 
of  water,  8  pieces  of  candied  lemon  peel  grated;  make  a  paste,  then 
form  into  cakes,  and  before  baking  prick  them  with  a  straw  or 
fork. 

GINGER  BREAD. — One  cup  of  molasses,  1-2  cup  of  butter,  i  egg, 
i  cup  of  water,  i  teaspoonful  of  soda,  i  of  ginger;  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thick  batter. 

GINGER  SNAPS. — One  and  1-2  pints  molasses,  i  pint  of  lard  or 
butter.  4  tablespoonfuls  ginger,  tablespoonfuls  cream  tartar,  2  of 
soda,  2  cups  sugar. 

SWEET  POTATO  BUNS. — Boil  sweet  potatoes  soft,  peel  and  mash 
them  while  hot  in  flour  like  bread,  add  spice  and  sugar  with  yeast ; 
when  well  risen  work  in  butter  and  make  the  dough  up  in  small  rolls 
and  bake.  You  can  use  any  quantity,  according  to  judgment.  One 
quart  of  flour,  i  coffeecup  of  potatoes,  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and 
6  grains  of  allspice  with  a  dessertspoonful  of  butter  is  a  good  rule 
for  a  small  family. 

BUNS  MADE  BY  OUR  MOTHER. — Flour,  2  1-2  Ibs. ;  butter,  6ozs. ; 
sugar,  1-2  Ib. ;  a  little  salt,  pulverized  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cara- 
way; 1-2  cup  of  yeast  and  sufficient  warm  milk  to  form  a  paste, 
then  brush  them  over  with  warm  milk  and  bake  them  a  fine  brown 
in  a  tolerably  slow  oven. 

BUNS. — Two  cups  each  of  milk  and  sugar,  i  cup  each  of  yeast 
and  lard ;  lay  three  pieces  of  the  dough  3  inches  square  together 
with  molasses  and  a  few  carrouts;  bake  a  light  brown. 

QUICK  DOUGHNUTS. — Four  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  but- 
ter, a  tumblerful  of  sour  milk  or  cream,  i  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg, 
1-2  of  cinnamon,  i  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  flour  to 
roll  out  in  smooth  dough  ;  cut  into  shapes  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

MUFFINS — Mrs.  L. — One  quart  of  milk,  2  eggs,  i  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  warmed  with  the  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  a 
batter  thick  enough  to  drop  from  a  spoon,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i 
pennyworth  of  baker's  yeast,  or  i  teacupful  of  homemade  yeast ; 
set  to  rise,  and  when  very  light  bake  in  rings  on  a  griddle. 

MUFFINS. — One  pint  of  flour,  2  eggs,  i  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
tablespoonfuls  of  yeast.  Milk  enough  to  mix. 


BREAKFAST,  LUNCH  AND  TEA.  351 

MUFFINS— Mrs.  J.  D.  Thornton.— Take  a  quart  of  milk  and  melt 
a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  part  of  it,  beat  3  or  4 
eggs  very  light  and  add  them  to  the  milk  and  melted  butter,  beat- 
ing in  enough  flour  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff  batter  very  hard  and  add 
i  tablespoonful  of  brewer's  yeast  or  a  teacupful  of  homemade  yeast ; 
set  the  dough  to  rise  4  hours  before  using. 

WATER  OAT  CAKE. — Bake  the  bread  made  of  oat  meal  and  water 
to  a  nice  dark  brown  and  dry,  put  this  into  water,  and  it  will  allay 
vomitting. 

FLANNEL  CAKES — Mrs.  J.  D.  Thornton. — One  quart  of  milk,  2 
eggs,  1-2  cupful  of  homemade  yeast,  a  little  salt;  make  a  thick 
batter. 

FLANNEL  CAKES — An  "Old  Dominion"  recipe. — Mrs.  Sturgis,  N. 
Y. — Four  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  milk,  the  yolk  of  i  beaten  egg  ; 
mix  all  together  and  beat  well,  then  stir  in  a  large  spoonful  each  of 
salt,  yeast  and  sweet  butter,  over  night.  The  next  morning  bake 
for  breakfast,  and  butter  as  you  take  them  off  the  griddle. 

COCOA,  How  TO  MAKE. — It  is  better  to  buy  the  beans  in  a  small 
quantity,  then  roast  and  grind  or  pound  them  in  a  mortor  as  you 
would  coffee,  make  as  chocolate,  allowing  2  heaped  tablespoonfuls 
to  2  or  more  cups  of  boiling  water.  Boil  i  1-2  hours,  then  stir 
in  4  cups  of  fresh  sweet  milk ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  pour  out  and 
serve  very  hot. 

COFFEE  AND  TEAPOTS. — While  the  coffee  is  boiling  and  the  tea 
steeping  the  spouts  of  both  the  coffee  and  teapots  should  be  stopped 
with  a  cork  or  a  plug  of  paper  to  prevent  the  strength  from  escap- 
ing. I  have  seen  a  cork  confined  with  a  piece  of  twine  to  the  han- 
dle, to  be  always  ready  for  use. 

SUMMER  SNOW  (beautiful.) — In  a  coffeecup  of  cold  water  soak 
the  proper  quantity  of  the  best  gelatine,  2  cups  of  powdered  sugar ; 
juice  and  peel  of  i  lemon,  1-2  ordinary  sized  pineapple  chopped 
into  small  pieces,  i  pint  of  boiling  water,  i  gill  best  brandy,  2  gills 
best  sherry  or  white  wine,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  the  whites  of  5  eggs 
whipped  to  a  solid  froth  ;  mix  all  the  ingredients  into  the  soaked  gel- 
atine, and  let  them  remain  for  2  hours  ;  wheri  you  have  bruised  the 
fruit  well  with  a  spoon  or  in  wooden  mortar  and  mixed  all  thoroughly, 
at  the  end  of  the  time  pour  over  the  compound  the  2  cups  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  continue  to  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved. Strain  through  a  strong  flannel  or  net  bag,  squeezing  and 
pressing  hard.  When  nearly  cold  put  in  the  wine  and  brandy,  and 
cover  till  cold.  Then  by  degrees  whip  it  into  the  beaten  whites  ;  no 
matter  in  what  way  beaten,  if  it  be  continued  for  thirty  minutes  or 
more.  Wet  the  mould  with  cold  water,  then  pour  in  the  snow  mix- 
ture and  bury  it  in  ice  to  "jeal."  A  dish  as  delicious  as  refreshing. 


352  BREAKFAST,  LUNCH  AND  TEA. 

N.  B.  A  few  peach  kernels  blanched  in  boiling  water  to  remove 
the  skin,  broken  and  boiled  with  any  kind  of  jelly,  marmalade,  sauce, 
pudding,  preserves;  any  kind  of  fruit,  and  even  cake  will  improve 
the  flavor. 

WHITE  HONEY  CAKES. — Stir  until  frothy  1-4  pound  of  sugar,  the 
yolks  of  15  eggs  and  a  whole  egg ;  mix  with  it  1-2  ounce  of  citron, 
the  same  of  orange  peel;  cut  into  small  dice;  1-2  ounce  of  cinna- 
mon (powdered),  the  same  of  powdered  cloves,  the  grated  peel  of 
a  lemon,  1-2  pound  of  peeled  almonds  cut  into  small  dice;  finally 
add  to  the  mass  the  whites  of  15  eggs  beaten  to  stiff  froth  and  1-4 
pound  of  sifted  flour ;  spread  it  smoothly  as  thick  as  your  finger 
over  oblong  wafers  as  long  and  as  wide  as  your  hand.  Ornament 
them  on  the  top  with  small  pieces  of  lemon  peel  the  thickness  of 
the  back  of  a  knife,  put  them  on  a  baking  plate  and  bake  them  in 
an  oven  that  has  been  allowed  to  cool.  Bake  slowly  till  of  a  bright 
yellow. 

SALLY  LUNN — Mrs.  Jeanson. — i  large  cup  of  flour,  3  heaped  tea- 
spoonfuls  yeast  powder,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  mix  these,  drop 
in  3  whole  eggs  well  beaten,  with  enough  to  form  a  thick  paste. 
Butter  a  pan,  put  in  the  paste,  not  thin  enough  to  run,  stick  bits 
of  butter  here  and  there  all  over  the  top  of  the  dough  ;  bake  in 
a  quick  oven.  Nice  for  lunch,  breakfast  and  tea. 

SALLY  LUNN — Mrs.  R. — 3  pints  flour,  6  eggs,  4  ounces  butter, 
i  t-2  pint  of  yeast,  i  pint  of  sweet  milk;  beat  all  these  ingredients 
together,  pour  into  a  buttered  mould  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked  and 
let  it  stand  over  night,  if  you  wish  it  for  breakfast. 

SALLY  LUNN. — One' yeast  cake  i  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs,  milk  and 
flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  Make  up  in  the  morning  and  set  to  rise 
for  tea;  sugar  and  spice  added,  if  desirable.  Bake  in  thin  pie 
pans. 

SWEET  RUSKS. — Make  a  batter  of  i  pint  of  milk,  i  pint  of  flour, 
2-3  cup  of  sugar ;  after  rising  add  2  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  6  ounces  of 
butter  or  lard,  1-2  teaspoonful  of  salaratus. 

COOKING  WITHOUT  EGGS. — i  cup  each  of  sugar  and  cold  water, 
1-2  cup  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  saleratus ;  spice  to  taste,  flour  to  make  a  dough  ;  roll  out 
ihin  ;  cut  in  any  shape. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. — Add  to  a  cup  of  sour  milk  i  well  beaten  egg,  i 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  i  teaspoonful  of  soda,  from  i  to  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  molasses  ;  salt.,  corn  meal  and  stir  quite  soft. 

GOOD  CORN  BREAD. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  i  egg,  i  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lard,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  (Brown's  or  Pierce's  is 
the  best),  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  enough  white  cornmealto  make 
a  moderately  thick  batter ;  just  before  baking  add  the  lard  boiling 


BREAKFAST,  LUNCH  AND  TEA.  353 

hot,  stir  it  well  and  bake  immediately  in  a  quick  oven.  This  is  equally 
nice  made  with  sour  milk. 

FRIED  BREAD— M.  A.  T.— Take  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet,  light 
dough,  dissolve  in  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  add  3  or  4  eggs,  i  1-2  cups 
flour,  i  teaspoonful  salt ;  cut  some  thin  slices  of  light  bread,  dip  this 
in  the  batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard ;  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 
garnish  with  jelly. 

CAROLINA  BREAD. — Dip  slices  of  light  bread  into  new  milk,  then 
dip  them  into  2  well  beaten  eggs,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard ;  dish 
them  and  pour  over  them  any  kind  of  syrup  and  serve  hot. 

SNOW  CAKES. — Put  corn  meal  into  a  good  sized  wood  or  earthen 
bowl  with  sugar  and  salt  to  taste,  then  add  3  times  its  bulk  of  snow, 
and  stir  it  together  with  a  spoon  ;  when  well  mixed  it  looks  like  so 
much  dry  meal  or  snow.  Fry  a  little  on  a  hot  griddle ;  if  it  cooks 
too  dry  to  turn  well,  add  more  snow;  if  too  wet  to  be  light,  add 
more  meal ;  when  just  right,  fry  on  the  griddle  in  convenient-sized 
cakes,  and  they  will  be  as  light  as  corn  bread. 

CORN  CAKES. — Sweet  milk,  i  or  2  eggs,  salt,  about  1-3  of  flour  to 

2  of  fresh,  sweet  corn  meal,  a  little  lard,  no  yeast  powder;  fry  quickly 
on  a  hot  griddle. 

JOLLY  BOY — Brayton. — i  quart  of  new  white  corn  meal,  scald  and 
cool,  i  pint  of  flour,  2  eggs,  i  teaspoon  soda,  2  of  cream  tartar,  a 
little  sweet  milk ;  make  as  thick  batter  as  for  pancake  aud  fry  in  hot 
lard.  Nice  for  breakfast. 

ANCIENT  RECIPE  FOR  THE  ATHENIAN  NATIONAL  DISH. — Dry  near 
the  fire  in  an  oven  20  pounds  of  barley  flour,  then  parch  it,  add 

3  pounds   of  linseed  meal,   1-2  pound  of  coriander  seed,  2  ounces 
of  salt   and  the   quantity  of  water  necessary.     To  this  sometimes 
a  little  millet  is  added  in  order  to  give  the  paste  greater  cohesion 
and  delicacy. 

FINE  WAFFLES.  (Mrs.  B.) — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  1-2  cup  of  but- 
ter milk,  sour  cream,  or  clabber,  2  eggs,  i  1-2  pint  of  flour,  and  a 
piece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  small  hen's  egg,  melted  and  put  in  the  bat- 
ter ;  beat  till  perfectly  smooth.  Have  the  waffle  irons  perfectly  clean, 
and  grease  and  fill  them  with  batter,  and  bake  on  bright  coals,  turn- 
ing the  irons  so  that  both  sides  may  be  browned.  Butter  as  you  take 
them  from  the  irons. 

ORANGE  CAKE.  (Mrs.  O.  Hallon,  San  Jose.) — Yolks  of  5  eggs, 
whites  of  2  beat  well,  i  1-2  cups  of  sugar,  2-3  of  a  cup  of  water, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2  cups  flour.  This  will  be  enough  to  fill 

4  large  jelly  moulds. 

COCOANUT  BALLS. — Remove  from  the  kernels  the  brown  skin,  then 
grate  with  a  coarse  grater  ;  add  equal  weight  of  sifted  sugar,  and  the 
white  of  one  well  beaten  egg.  Make  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a 


$54  BREAKFAST,  LUNCH  AND  TBA« 

walnut  and  bake  upon  a  tin  in  a  moderate  oven,  of  a  light  brown* 
Place  the  balls  upon  thin  white  paper.  Remove  as  soon  as  taken 
from  the  oven. 

SMALL  DROP  CAKES. — Made  of  this  mixture  by  dropping  a  spoon- 
ful on  wafer  paper  ;  baked  in  a  quick  oven. 

GREEN  CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. — Make  a  batter  of  3  or  4  eggs,  2 
cups  of  flour,  a  little  salt  and  water,  milk  or  meat  broth,  (boiled  with- 
out vegetables),  if  you  have  it ;  grate  6  or  7  ears  of  green  corn, 
into  this  mixture  ;  bake  on  griddles.  Serve  hot  with  butter.  Canned 
corn  will  do  for  winter. 

GENERAL  WASHINGTON'S  BREAKFAST  CAKE.  (Genuine.) — Make  a 
thick  mush  of  white  corn  meal  and  water,  add  some  salt  and  a  little 
butter,  and  drop  in  small  cakes,  1-2  inch  thick,  on  a  hot  griddle ; 
butter  well  and  serve. 

FRYING  GRIDDLE  CAKES. — Before  applying  your  batter,  rub  the 
griddle  with  dry  salt,  then  rubbing  off  carefully  before  oiling,  which 
will  cause  them  to  turn  easily.  Corn,  griddle  and  buckwheat  cakes 
are  nicely  turned  when  thus  treated. 

TEA  CAKES.  (Mrs.  Jos.  Mayo,  Richmond,  Va.) — Two  Ibs.  of  flour. 
1-2  Ib.  sweet  butter,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dis- 
solved in  a  teacup  of  water  and  a  dessert  spoonful  of  vinegar.  Flavor 
with  mace. 

NEW  ORLEANS  TEA  CAKE. — Three  Ibs.  of  flour,  or  bread  crumbs, 
i  1-2  Ibs.  of  sugar,  3-4  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  caraway  seeds, 
i  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  1-2  pint  of  milk.  Roll  out  and 
bake  in  thin  cakes. 

MY  COLORED  MAMMY'S  COOKIES. — Five  eggs,  i  1-2  cups  of  but- 
ter, 3  cups  of  fine  white  sugar,  5  cups  of  flour  or  mace,  3  spoons  of 
cream,  spice  to  taste.  The  dough  should  be  soft ;  then  roll  out  to  a 
thin  sheet,  and  cut  in  small  cakes  in  what  form  desired  Bake  in  a 
fast  oven  until  a  light  brown  and  crisp.  Brush  them  over  with  a 
clean  feather,  or  soft  rag,  dipped  in  a  solution  of  sugar  and  water, 
quite  thick. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS.  (A  plain  family  dish.) — Six  apples,  3-4 
Ib.  of  suet  crust,  (see  recipe)  sugar  to  taste.  Pare  and  take  out  the 
cores  of  the  apples,  dividing  them,  and  make  1-2  Ib,  of  suet  crust, 
(by  recipe),  roll  the  apples  in  the  crust,  previously  sweetening  them 
with  moist  sugar,  and  taking  care  to  join  the  crust  nicely  ;  when  they 
are  formed  into  round  balls,  put  them  on  a  tin  and  bake  them  for  1-2 
an  hour  or  longer.  Should  the  apples  be  very  large,  arrange  them 
pyramidically  on  a  dish,  and  sift  over  them  some  powdered  sugar. 
These  may  be  made  richer,  by  using  one  of  thepuft  pastes  instead  of 
suet.  Bake  from  1-2  to  3-4  of  an  hour.  Sufficient  for  4  persons. 

SWEET  DUMPLINGS  WITH  ALMONDS. — Pound  very  fine,  a  oz.  of 


BREAKFAST,  LUNCH  AND  TEA.  355 

peeled  sweet  almonds,  put  them  in  a  dish  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  fine  sugar  and  cinnamon,  stir  this  with  3  eggs  for  1-2  hour,  put 
them  into  sweet  sauce,  or  into  wine  sauce. 

LEMON  DUMPLINGS. — One  half  a  pound  of  grated  bread,  i  -4  Ib- 
of  chopped  suet,  1-4  Ib.  of  moist  sugar;  mix  well  together,  adding 
lemon  peel,  which  should  be  very  finely  minced.  Moisten  the  eggs 
well  with  strained  lemon  juice.  Stir  well. 

SHELLS. — Take  2  tablespoonfuls  each  of  sweet  milk  and  white 
sugar,  i  of  melted  butter,  2  eggs  ;  stir  all  together  till  perfectly  smooth, 
then  add  flour  till  stiff  enough  to  roll,  cut  the  size  of  a  walnut,  roll 
very  thin  and  round  on  a  floured  board,  and  cook  in  boiling  lard, 
or  oil,  holding  them  in  with  a  fork  till  done. 

CORN  MUFFINS. — Four  cups  of  sifted  meal,  a  lage  spoonful  of  but- 
ter, 4  cups  of  sweet  milk,  a  large  pinch  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
of  yeast,  and  one  of  sugar  or  molasses.  Bake  i  hour  in  shallow  pans 
in  rings,  after  rising  4  or  5  hours. 

MUFFINS,  CINNAMON. — One  teacup  sour  milk,  nearly  1-2  cup  of 
sugar,  i  egg,  i  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  make  thick  with  flour  and 
stir  till  smooth.  Bake  in  gem  pans. 

ORANGE  FOR  DESSERT.— May  be  put  in  fruit  dish  stands  or  baskets, 
or  the  skin  may  be  slit  into  eighths,  half  way  down,  then  with  the 
bowl  of  a  teaspoon  tnrn  the  peel  either  outward  or  inwards  so  that 
that  the  peel  can  turn  either  way,  showing  the  yellow  and  white 
halves  of  the  orange.  The  blossom  end  of  the  fruit  a  little  piece 
should  be  cut  off,  or  you  can,  with  a  sharp  knife,  run  around  the  fruit 
about  half  from  either  end,  only  cutting  through  the  rind;  then  with 
the  smooth  handle  of  a  teaspoon,  slip  between  the  rind  and  the  fruit, 
work  it  carefully  until  the  halves  are  free,  except  at  the  ends.  Turn 
the  rind  without  tearing  it  inside  out,  making  a  cap  at  the  end,  the 
fleecy  white  fruit  between  them.  This  is  done  by  the  master  of 
ceremonies  in  families  who  live  in  the  Orient  at  the  conclusion  of 
dinner.  The  effect  of  serving  oranges  in  this  way  is  beautiful  and  I 
have  often  admired  the  ease,  and  great  skill  with  which  it  is  done. 

PUMPKIN  PIE  (ENGLISH.) — Take  out  the  seeds  and  grate  the 
pumpkin  till  you  come  to  the  outer  skin ;  sweeten  the  pulp,  add  a 
little  ground  allspice,  lemon  peel  and  lemon  juice ;  in  short,  flavor  it 
to  the  taste.  Bake  it  without  an  upper  crust. 

PRUNE  PIE. — The  two  crusts  the  same.  Cook  the  prunes,  take 
out  the  stones,  add  sugar  and  powdered  cinnamon  to  taste,  stir  in 
well  and  bake  between  two  crusts  in  a  slow  oven. 

LEMON  PIE. — i  lemon,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  egg,  i  teaspoonful  of 
corn  starch,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  cream,  half  cup  of  boiling  water.  Bake 
with  upper  and  under  crusts. 

LEMON  MINCED  MEATS. — a  large  lemons,  6  apples,  half  pound  of 


356  BREAKFAST,  LUNCH  AND  TEA. 

meat,  i  pound  of  currants,  half  pound  of  sugar,  2  ozs.  of  candied 
lemon  peel,  i  oz.  of  citron,  mixed  spice  to  taste.  Pare  the  lemons, 
squeeze  them,  and  boil  the  peel  until  tender  enough  to  mash,  add  to 
the  mashed  lemon  peel  the  apples,  which  should  be  pared,  cored  and 
minced,  the  chopped  suet,  currants,  sugar,  sliced  peel,  and  spices. 
Strain  the  lemon  juice  to  these  ingredients ;  stir  the  mixture  well, 
and  put  it  into  a  jar  with  a  close  fitting  lid,  stir  occasionally,  and  in 
a  week  or  10  days  the  minced  meat  will  be  ready  for  use.  Suffi- 
cient for  1 8  larger  or  24  small  pies.  Seasonable  in  cold  weather. 

POLISH  TARTLETS. — Puff  paste,  the  white  of  an  egg,  powdered 
sugar:  roll  some  puff  paste  out  thin  and  cut  it  into  21-2  inch  squares; 
brush  each  square  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  then  fold  down  the 
corners,  so  that  they  will  meet  in  the  middle  of  each  piece  of  paste, 
slightly  press  the  two  pieces  together,  brush  them  over  with  the  egg, 
sift  over  some  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  nice  quick  oven  for  1-4  hour. 
When  they  are  done,  make  a  little  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  paste, 
and  fill  it  up  with  apricot  jam,  marmalade  or  red  currant  jelly.  Pile 
them  high  in  the  center  of  a  dish,  on  a  napkin,  and  garnish  with  the 
same  preserve  that  the  tartlets  are  filled  with.  Bake  15  to  20  min- 
utes. Sufficient  for  2  dishes  of  pastry.  Seasonable  at  any  time, — 
N.  B.  It  should  be  borne  in  mind,  that,  for  all  dishes  of  small  pastry, 
such  as  the  preceding,  trimmings  of  puff  paste,  left  from  larger  tarts, 
answer  as  well  as  making  the  paste  expressly. 

CORN  PATTIES.  (Mrs.  S.  M.  Kellogg.) — Grate  i  dozen  ears  of 
green  Corn,  add  to  it  2  well  beaten  eggs,  withatablespoonful  of  flour, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  beat  well  and  drop  in  a  hot  griddle  or  pan, 
well  buttered,  use  part  lard,  or  they  will  burn. 

FRIED  CAKE.  (Mrs.  Patterson.) — One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  i 
cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  i  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  5  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  5  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard,  1-2  teaspoonful  of 
nutmeg,  i  quart  of  flour,  a  little  salt. 

CORN  MEAL  DROP  CAKES.  -Scald  i  quart  of  meal,  and  stir  a  des- 
sert spoonful  of  lard  in  it,  when  cool,  beat  2  eggs  in,  stir  in  milk 
enough  to  make  a  thick  batter:  grease  a  stove  pan  or  spider  and 
drop  them  from  the  spoon,  to  bake  until  brown.  Clabber,  with  a  lit- 
tle soda  in  it,  will  answer  in  the  place  of  milk  or  butter-milk. 

BUCK  WHEAT  CAKES. — One  quart  buck-wheat,  i  pint  of  flour,  1-2 
teacupful  yeast,  salt ;  mix  with  moderately  warm  water  into  a  thin 
batter.  Beat  well,  then  add  yeast,  mixing  well,  and  set  to  rise  over 
night  for  breakfast.  If  the  batter  should  be  sour  in  the  morning,  add 
some  soda,  according  to  the  degree  of  acidity. 

APPLK  JOURNEY  CAKES. — Three  quarters  sweet  apples,  and  1-4 
tart  apples  peeled  and  chopped  fine,  a  small  teacupful  of  sugar,  i 
pint  of  corn  meal,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  white  flour.  Bake  in 
cakes  1-2  inch  thick,  on  a  griddle  or  oven,  20  minutes. 


SWEET  SAUCES.  357 


SWEET  SAUCES. 

WINE  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS. — 1-2  pint  of  sherry,  1-2  pint  of 
water,  the  yolks  of  9  eggs,  2  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  1-2  tea- 
spoonful  of  minced  lemon  peel,  a  few  pieces  of  candied  citron 
cut  thin.  Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  5  eggs,  beat  them 
and  put  them  into  a  very  close  sauce  pan  (if  at  hand  a  porce- 
lain lined  is  best)  all  the  other  ingredients,  place  them  over  a 
sharp  fire  and  keep  stirring  until  the  sauce  begins  to  thicken,  then 
take  it  off  and  serve.  If  it  is  allowed  to  boil  it  will  be  spoiled, 
or  it  will  immediately  curdle.  To  be  stirred  over  the  fire  for  3 
or  4  minutes,  but  it  must  not  boil.  Sufficient  for  a  large  pud- 
ding. Allow  1-2  the  quantity  for  a  moderate  sized  one.  Sea- 
sonable at  any  time. 

WINE  OR  BRANDY  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS. — 1-2  pint  of  melted  but- 
ter (made  of  2  ounces  of  butter,  i  dessertspoonful  of  flour,  1-2  pint 
of  \\ater  and  salt  to  taste);  see  recipe,  3  heaped  teaspoonfuls  of 
pounded  sugar,  i  large  wineglassful  of  some  good  wine,  3-4  of  a 
small  glassful  of  brandy;  make  1-2  pint  of  brandy  by  given  recipe, 
omitting  •  the  salt,  then  stir  in  the  sugar  and  wine  or  spirit  in  the 
above  proportions  and  bring  the  same  to  the  boiling  point;  serve  in 
a  boat  or  tureen  separately,  and  if  liked,  pour  a  little  of  it  over  the 
pudding.  To  convert  this  into  punch  sauce,  add  to  the  wine  and 
brandy  a  small  wineglass  of  rum  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
1-2  lemon.  Liquors,  such  as  moroschina  or  carocoa  substituted  for 
the  brandy  make  excellent  sauces.  Altogether  5  minutes ;  sufficient 
for  6  or  7  persons. 

COMMON  WINE  SAUCE. — Make  thin  a  few  spoonfuls  melted  but- 
ter, then  add  from  a  tablespoonful  to  2  of  coarsely  pounded  sugar 
and  a  glass  of  sherry  with  1-2  glass  of  brandy,  a  little  grated  lemon 
peel  or  nutmeg,  or  both  together  are  an  improvement. 

WINE  SAUCE. — (Miss  Spears.) — 3  cups  sugar,  i  each  of  wine  and 
butter,  set  the  bowl  in  boiling  water  for  i  hour. 

WINE  SAUCE  FOR  BREAD  PUDDING. — 2  cups  of  sugar,  2  ounces 
butter,  beaten  well  together,  2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separ- 
ately, the  yolks  added  and  stirred  first  with  the  butter  and  sugar  and 
then  the  broken  whites,  1-2  pint  of  wine  just  boiling  hot,  but  not 
boiled ;  add  to  the  other  ingredients,  let  the  whole  get  thoroughly 
hot,  not  boiling.  Grate  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

RICH  WINE  SAUCE. — Take  2  ounces  of  corn  starch  and  2  ounces 
of  butter,  stir  them  over  the  fire  till  the  butter  melts  and  thickens, 
add  1-4  pound  white  pounded  sugar,  i  pint  Madeira  wine  or  good 
white  wine,  and  stir  to  it  the  yolks  of  8  eggs  well  whisked ;  keep 


358  SWEET  SAUCES. 

constantly  stirring  until  it  becomes  quite  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ; 
when  sufficiently  cooled  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  previously  beaten 
to  a  white  froth ;  serve  in  a  sauce  tureen. 

SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  PASTRY. — Simmer  for  1-4  of  an  hour  1-2  Ib. 
of  white  sugar  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg  in  two 
cups  of  water,  beat  well  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  remove  the  pan 
from  the  fire,  then  stir  briskly  several  spoonfuls  of  the  boiled  su- 
gar into  the  beaten  yolks,  then  pour  all  into  i  pan  over  a  slow  fire 
and  boil  very  gently  till  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly ;  then  season 
with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

SWEET  PUDDING  SAUCE. — The  rind  and  juice  of  i  lemon,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  i  oz.  of  butter,  i  large  glassful  of  sherry,  i  wine- 
glassful  of  water,  sugar  to  taste,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Rub  the 
lemon  rind  into  some  lumps  of  sugar,  squeeze  out  the  juice  and 
strain  it,  put  the  butter  and  flour  into  a  sauce  pan,  stir  them  over 
the  fire,  and  when  of  a  pale  brown  add  the  wine,  water  and  strained 
lemon  juice.  Crush  the  lumps  of  sugar  that  were  rubbed  on  the 
lemon,  stir  these  into  the  sauce,  which  should  be  very  sweet ;  when 
these  ingredients  are  well  mixed  and  the  sugar  is  melted  put  in  the 
beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs;  keep  stirring  the  sauce  until  it  thickens, 
when  serve.  It  will  be  spoiled  if  allowed  to  boil.  Altogether  for 
15  minutes  ;  sufficient  for  7  or  8  persons. 

SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS. — 2  teacupfuls  sugar,  i  tablespoonful  fresh 
butter  and  i  wineglassful  of  wine  melted  together  and  i  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour  mixed  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  poured  in ;  season  with 
nutmeg  or  lemon  peel. 

CREAM  SAUCE. — Boil  1-2  pint  of  cream,  thicken  it  with  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch,  arrow  root  or  flour,  a  large  lump  of  butter, 
with  sugar  to  taste ;  when  cold  add  either  wine  or  brandy. 

PEACH  AND  TOMATO  SAUCE. — Peel  and  slice  i  part  rich,  sweet 
peaches  and  2  parts  sweet  and  well  ripened  tomatoes,  mix  them 
thoroughly  and  let  them  stand  where  it  is  cool  for  an  hour  before 
serving.  Very  rich,  sweet  muskmelons  may  be  cut  up  and  mixed 
with  the  tomatoes  in  the  place  of  the  peaches. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. — Allow  12  ozs.  sugar  to  i  Ib.  of  fruit, boil  the 
syrup,  and  when  well  skimmed  put  in  the  berries  and  boil  till  clear. 

NOTE — If  for  preserves,  allow  equal  weight  of  sugar  and  fruit 
and  add  water  in  the  proportion  of  1-2  pint  to  2  Ibs.  Make  as  for 
sauce. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  SAUCE. — Grate  the  sugar  until  you  have  a  cupful, 
add  to  this  a  cup  of  hot  water,  stir  till  melted,  simmer  for  a  few 
moments,  then  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  serve  with  boiled 
rice. 

SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING. — (Mrs.  B.) — Make  a  sauce  of  five 


SWEET  SAUCES.  359 

beaten  eggs,  some  white  sugar,  a  gill  of  milk  flavored  with  lemon ; 
stir  over  the  fire  till  it  becomes  as  thin  cream ;  do  not  let  it  boil;  add 
2  wineglasses  of  brandy ;  serve  hot  in  a  sauce  tureen. 

EGG  DRAWN  SAUCE.  (A  Chicago  Recipe.)— Take  a  tumbler  of  cold 
water,  add  a  well  beaten  egg,  pour  into  a  sauce  pan,  and  set  it  on  a 
stove  to  boil  slowly,  until  it  thickens.  Stir  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
butter.  Wine  and  sugar  may  be  added.  It  is  excellent  with  pud- 
dings. Try  it. 

HARD  CREAM.  (A  Cincinnati  Recipe.) — Take  2  cupfuls  of  loaf 
sugar,  finely  pulverized,  i  teacupful  of  butter,  which  cream,  until 
white  and  springy,  then  mix  the  sugar  and  butter  till  like  cream.  Stir 
in  as  much  wine  as  it  will  take,  or  cream  with  any  extract  preferred, 
place  it  slightly  heaped  on  a  glass  or  silver  plate.  It  makes  an  ele- 
gant sauce  for  bread  pudding,  or  any  kind  of  boiled  puddings.  By 
stirring  to  it  a  large  tablespoonful  of  stiff  apple  or  quince  jelly,  or  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  an  orange,  or  lemon,  this  sauce  may  be 
varied. 

COLD  STRAWBERRY  SAUCE. — Rub  the  strawberries  through  a  sieve, 
add  to  the  juice  an  equal  quantity  of  madeira,  an  orange,  grated  in 
sugar,  and  its  own  juice  with  a  small  spoonful  of  starch,  boiled  in 
water. 

SAUCE  FOR  ANY  KIND  OF  VEGETABLES. — Take  a  piece  of  butter, 
the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  and  set  it  over  the  fire,  with  pepper,  salt  and 
a  little  parsley,  and  an  onion  chopped  very  fine.  Add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  flour,  let  it  brown  to  a  light  yellow,  then  add  a  teacupful  of  cold 
water,  thin  it  with  new  milk  to  the  desired  consistency,  then  pour 
over  green  beans,  cabbages,  green  corn,  lima  beans,  asparagus 
spinach,  etc. 

COCOANUT  SAUCE. — Put  a  grated  cocoanut  over  the  fire  with  3 
yolks  of  eggs,  a  cup  of  cream,  i  oz.  of  sugar,  and  1-2  a  glass  of  Mo- 
raschino  ;  work  together  well ;  when  set,  serve  in  a  boat. 

CHERRY  SAUCE  FOR  SWEET  PUDDINGS.  (German  Recipe.) — One 
pound  of  cherries,  i  tablespoonful  of  flour,  i  oz.  of  butter,  1-2  pint  of 
water,  i  glass  of  port  wine,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  4  pounds  of 
cloves,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  sugar  to  taste.  Stone  the 
cherries  and  pound  the  kernels  in  a  mortar  to  a  smooth  paste,  put 
the  butter  and  flour  in  a  sauce-pan,  stir  them  over  the  fire  till  of  a 
pale  brown,  then  add  the  cherries,  the  pounded  kernels,  the  wine  and 
the  water;  simmer  these  gently  for  1-4  hour  or  until  the  cherries  are 
quite  cooked,  and  rub  the  whole  through  a  hair  sieve,  add  the  other 
ingredients,  let  the  sauce  boil  for  another  5  minutes,  and  serve.  This 
is  a  delicious  sauce,  to  serve  with  boiled  batter  pudding,  and  when 
thus  used,  should  be  sent  to  the  table  poured  over  pudding.  20 
minutes  to  1-4  an  hour  to  boil.  Sufficient  for  4  or  5  persons, 


360  SWEET  SAUCES. 

BOILING  SAUCE. — One  handful  of  parsley,  2  sweet  lemon  verbena- 
leaves,  1-2  lemon,  i  carrot,  all  chopped  fine,  i  soupspoonful  pepper 
corns,  1-2  soupspoonful  cloves,  1-4  good  wine-vinegar,  3-4  water, 
salt ;  for  serving  hot  or  cold,  on  a_ny  kind  of  boiled  fish.  Boil  a  few 
minutes,  put  in  the  fish  and  simmer  till  done. 

VANILLA  CUSTARD  SAUCE. — 1-2  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs,  3  ounces 
sugar,  10  drops  essence  of  vanilla.  Beat  the  eggs,  sweeten  the  milk, 
stir  these  ingredients  well  together  and  flavor  with  the  essence  of 
vanilla,  regulating  the  proportion  of  this  latter  ingredient  by  the 
strength  of  the  essence,  the  size  of  the  eggs,  &c.  Put  the  mixture 
into  a  small  jug  or  pitcher  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  stir 
the  sauce  one  way  until  it  thickens,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil,  or  it 
will  instantly  curdle ;  serve  in  a  boat  or  tureen  separately  with  plain 
bread  or  any  other  kind  of  dry  pudding.  Essence  of  bitter  almonds 
or  lemon  rind  may  be  substituted  for  the  vanilla  when  they  are  more 
in  accordance  with  the  flavoring  of  the  pudding  with  which  the  sauce 
was  intended  to  be  served.  To  be  stirred  in  the  pitcher  lor  8  or  10 
minutes.  Sufficient  for  4  or  5  persons. 

OUR  MOTHER'S  SAUCE. — Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  add  1-2  cup  of 
water,  i  cup  of  sugar,  1-2  cup  of  butter ;  put  into  a  sauce  pan  and 
stir  over  the  fire  till  it  is  clear  and  thick.  Flavor  with  vauilla. 

ARROW  ROOT  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS. — Mix  a  small  teaspoonful  of 
arrow  root  with  a  iittle  cold  water  and  boil  a  large  teacupful  of  sherry 
or  raisin  wine  with  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  it.  Mix  the  arrow- 
root with  this  and  pour  over  the  pudding.  It  is  an  improvement  to 
rub  a  lump  or  two  of  the  sugar  on  lemon  peel. 

BCRNT  CREAM  SAUCE. — Put  2  spoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar  on  the  fire 
in  a  small  sauce  pan,  stir  it,  and  when  quite  brown  pour  slowly  in  a 
gill  of  thin  cream,  stirring  all  the  time.  To  be  used  as  a  sauce  to  cus- 
tard or  batter  pudding. 

ANY  KIND  OF  FRUII  MERINGUES.— Fill  an  earthen  pudding  dish 
nearly  to  the  top  with  any  kind  of  stewed  fruit,  rather  moist,  then 
whisk  to  a  foam  the  whites  of  6  eggs  and  6  spoonfuls  of  white  sugar, 
then  with  a  spoon  lay  the  froth  evenly  over  the  fruit,  set  the  dish  in 
a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  30  minutes;  at  same  time  blanch  and 
beat  to  a  pulp  the  kernels  of  the  fruit  and  stir  it  into  the  frost- 
ing- It  improves  its  flavor. 

APPLE  JAM  (California). — Equal  quantities  of  sugar  and  good  sour 
apples ;  pare,  core  and  chop  the  apples  fine,  make  a  good  clear 
syrup  of  the  sugar,  add  the  apples,  juice  and  grated  rinds  of  three 
lemons  and  a  few  pieces  of  white  ginger  also  grated;  boil  until  the 
apples  looks  clear  and  yellow.  On  no  account  leave  out  the  ginger. 

ORANGES  FILLED  WITH  JELLY— A  beautiful  supper  dish.— Take 
some  very  ripe,  plump  oranges,  and  with  the  point  of  a  small  pen- 


FLOWXS  OR  FLOATS.  361 

knife  cut  from  the  stem  end  of  each  a.  round  piece  as  large  as  a  dime, 
then  with  the  end  of  a  tea  or  salt  spoon  remove  the  pulp  entirely, 
taking  pains  not  to  break  the  peel.  Throw  these  into  cold  water  and 
make  jelly  of  the  juice,  which  must  be  well  pressed  from  the  pulp 
and  strained  as  clear  as  possible.  Color  i  -2  with  prepared  cochi- 
neal and  leave  the  other  very  pale  ;  when  it  is  nearly  cold  drain  and 
wipe  the  orange  rinds  and  fill  them  with  alternate  layers  or  stripes 
of  the  two  jellies  ;  when  they  are  perfectly  coid  cut  them  in  quarters 
and  dispose  them  tastefully  in  a  dish  with  a  few  light  branches  of 
sweet  myrtle  around  them. 

N.  B.  Calf's  feet  or  any  other  variety  of  jelly  or  different  blanc- 
manges may  be  chosen  to  fill  the  rinds,  the  colors,  however,  should 
contrast  as  much  as  possible. 

ORANGE  ICING — ORANGE  DROPS. — Mrs.  Barringer,  N.  C. — Make 
the  orange  drops  by  dropping  very  stiff  pound  cake  on  tin  plates. 
Prepare  the  icing  by  beating  together  orange  juice  and  sugar  pounded 
till  quite  stiff.  When  the  orange  drops  are  baked  a  pale  brown,  and 
are  cold,  spread  this  icing  over  and  set  in  an  oven  to  dry  ;  put  on 
only  one  coat  of  icing.  They  are  delicious,  and  look  pretty  in  a 
basket  of  mixed  cake. 

N.  B.  They  will  be  much  nicer  if  the  pound  cake  batter  is  flavored 
with  the  orange  juice  and  grated  rind. 

FLOWNS  OR  FLOATS. 

APRICOT  FLOWNS. —  Butter  a  plain  or  channelled  flown  circle, 
which  place  either  on  a  baking  sheet,  or  en  a  tart  dish  ;  line  it  with 
trimmings  of  puff  paste  or  with  thin  short  paste;  cut  the  paste  on  a 
level  with  the  rim,  mask  the  bottom  with  a  thin  layer  of  sugar,  pow- 
dered ;  upon  this  sugar  range  halves  of  peeled,  raw  apricots,  so  as 
to  pretty  well  fill  up  the  hollow;  sprinkle  over  sugar.  Bake  the 
flowns  in  a  slow  oven  for  35  minutes,  and  serve  cold. 

Cherry,  peach,  apple  and  pear  flowns  may  be  prepared  according 
to  the  same  method. 

CREAM  FLOWXS. — Put  into  a  kitchen  basin,  3-4  oz.  of  sugar,  a  des- 
sert spoonful  of  flour,  add  one  after  another,  4  or  5  eggs.  Dilute 
the  preparation  with  4  gills  of  new  milk,  press  it  through  a  sieve,  add 
a  morsel  of  zest,  orange,  or  lemon  peel ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  2 
minutes  only.  Butter  a  flown  mould,  line  it  with  trimmings  of  puff 
paste  ;  it  should  be  thin.  Pour  the  preparation  in  the  flown,  after 
having  removed  the  zest.  Bake  it  in  a  very  slack  oven  for  45  min- 
utes; as  soon  as  the  preparation  begins  to  set,  cover  it  with  paper;  in 
taking  it  out,  sprinkle  it  with  sugar,  withdraw  the  mould,  and  serve 
the  flown. 


362  FLOWNS  OR  FLOATS. 

FLANCS  OF  FRUIT. — This  requires  a  tin  mould,  the  same  as  for 
raised  pies,  it  must  be  wiped  well  with  a  cloth,  butter  it,  then  take 
the  remains  of  puff  paste,  and  roll  it  well,  so  as  to  deaden  it,  then 
roll  it  out  a  size  larger  than  your  moulds,  and  about  1-4  inch  thick, 
place  your  moulds  on  a  baking  tin,  put  the  paste  carefully  in  the 
moulds,  and  shake  it  well,  to  obtain  all  the  form  of  the  mould  with- 
out making  a  hole  in  it ;  put  a  piece  of  paper  at  the  bottom,  fill  with 
flour  to  the  top,  and  bake  a  nice  color.  It  will  take  1-2  hour  ;  then 
take  out  the  flour  and  paper,  open  the  mould  and  fill  it  with  fruit. 

FLOWNS,  WITH  ANY  KIND  OF  FRUIT,  LIKE  A  VOLAUVENT. — These 
may  be  easily  made  of  half  puff  or  short  paste,  and  fill  with  new 
cherries  and  some  powdered  sugar  over  them ;  bake  together. 
Green  gages,  apricots,  or  plums  of  any  kind,  will  require  a  hotter 
oven  than  lor  only  flour  in  it,  the  fruit  giving  moisture  to  the  paste. 
— NOTE. — If  baked  in  a  slow  oven,  will  be  heavy,  and  consequently 
indigestible.  These  are  easily  made  and  equaly  good  as  a  side  dish. 

ANOTHER  WAY. — If  you  have  no  moulds,  make  1-4  Ib.  of  paste, 
roll  it  round  or  oval,  to  suit  your  fancy,  1-4  inch  thick,  wet  the  edge 
all  round  about  an  inch,  raise  that  part  and  pinch  it  round  with  your 
thumb  and  fingers,  making  a  border  all  round,  put  on  a  baking  sheet, 
fill  with  fruit,  one  row,  if  large,  two  ;  remove  the  stones  and  sift  sugar 
over  them,  according  to  the  acidity  of  the  fruit ;  it  will  take  less  time, 
too,  than  if  in  a  mould.  Thus,  variations  can  be  made  with  but  little 
expense  and  trouble. 

FLOWNS  OF  APPLES.  (A  pretty  party  cake.) — Take  8  pippins, 
Milam,  or  any  firm,  large,  sweet  apples,  cut  them  in  4  pieces,  remove 
the  peel  nicely,  rub  with  lemon;  put  1-2  Ib.  of  sugar  in  a  pan,  cover 
with  cold  water,  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  boil  till  a  little  thick,  then 
add  1-2  the  apples,  simmer  till  tender,  put  them  on  a  plate,  and  then 
do  the  other  half  in  the  same  way,  reduce  the  syrup  a  little,  put  the 
apples  in  a  bowl,  pour  the  syrup  over.  When  cold,  dish  in  a  pyramid 
of  crust;  prepared  like  the  flown  of  fruit,  which  should  be  a  jelly  of 
apple  juice.  Shreds  of  orange  or  lemon  peel  may  be  boiled  with 
the  apples. — NOTE. — Flancs  of  good  eating  pears  may  be  made  pre- 
cisely the  same  way.  They  should  be  cut  lengthwise,  dividing  the 
stem  in  half. 

A  PLAINER  FLANC. — Peel  8  pears  or  apples,  and  cut  them  in  thin 
slices,  put  them  in  a  pan  with  a  heaped  tablespoonful  or  more  of 
sugar,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon,  the  rind  chopped  very  fine,  put 
over  the  fire;  stir  till  of  a  thick  marmalade  and  tender,  dish  up;  melt 
and  pour  over,  and  serve  in  a  crust. 

APPLE  SNOW. — Take  a  pinch  of  powdered  alum  with  1-2  Ib  of 
pulp  of  roasted  apples,  1-2  Ib.  of  powdered  sugar,  the  juice  of  i  good 
lemon,  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs ;  whip  altogether  for  i  hour,  and 
drop  on  a  glass  dish. 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  363 

FLOATS.  (Mrs.  Ryland.) — Whites  of  6  eggs,  5  tablcspoonfuls  of 
acid  jelly,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  beat  until  light.  Have  a  bowl 
3-4  full  of  well  frothed  cream,  which  has  been  flavored  with  wine, 
and  sweetened  to  taste;  place  lightly  on  top  of  the  first  preparation. 

FLOAT  FOR  ANY  KIND  OF  FRUIT.  (Mrs.  Currie.)— Beat  well  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  whisk  in  4  cups  of  new  sweet  milk,  with  a  good  cup 
of  white  sugar.  When  just  come  to  a  boil,  pour  into  a  bowl,  then 
have  ready  the  4  whites,  beaten  to  a  solid  foam,  and  pour  this  lightly 
over  the  mixture  when  it  is  cold,  so  that  it  may  float  Eat  with  the 
fruit. 

COOKING  FOR  THE  NEEDY  AND  INVALIDS. 

WITH  PROPER  CONSIDERATION  and  household  management,  and 
care  taken  that  nothing  is  thrown  away,  or  wasted  in  the  kitchen,  a 
great  deal  may  be  turned  to  account,  even  in  families  of  moderate 
means.  Shoulder  bones  of  mutton,  so  little  esteemed  in  general, 
give  richness  to  soups  and  gravies,  if  well  soaked  and  mashed  before 
added  to  the  boiling.  They  are  particularly  nourishing  for  sick  per- 
sons. Roast  beef  bones,  or  shank  bones  of  ham,  make  an  excellent 
stock  for  soup.  When  the  whites  of  eggs  are  used  for  jelly,  or  cpn- 
fectionary,  or  other  purposes,  an  excellent  pudding  or  custard  can  be 
made  of  the  yolks,  beaten  with  sugar  and  bread  crumbs,  and  sea- 
soned nicely.  The  remains  of  cold  vegetables  make  an  excellent 
addition  to  the  soup,  with  a  little  rice  or  pearl  barley. 

If  those  who  are  able,  would  just  take  a  little  trouble  in  assisting 
the  poor,  the  expense  would  not  be  felt  by  them,  which  they  could 
vary  or  amend  at  discretion.  Where  cows  are  kept,  a  jug  of  skim- 
med milk  is  a  valuable  present  to  the  receiver,  and  a  very  cheap  one 
to  the  giver.  When  the  stove  is  hot,  a  large  pudding  may  be  baked 
and  given  a  sick  or  young  family,  and  thus  made,  the  trouble  is  but 
trifling.  Into  a  deep  coarse  pan  put  1-2  pound  of  rice,  1-4  pound  of 
brown  sugar  or  molasses,  2  quarts  of  milk,  a  large  spoon  of  dripping, 
set  it  cold  into  the  oven.  It  will  take  a  good  while  to  cook,  but 
will  be  an  excellent,  substantial  food.  A  very  good  meal  may  be 
bestowed  in  .a  thing  called  brewis,  which  is  thus  made :  cut  a  very 
thick  upper  crust  of  bread  and  put  into  the  pot  where  salt  beef  is 
boiling,  and  nearly  ready ;  it  will  attract  some  of  the  fat,  and  when 
swelled  out,  will  be  no  unpalatable  dish  to  those  who  rarely  taste 
meat. 

PLUMS  STEWED  FOR  INVALIDS. — With  a  gill  of  water  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  brown  sugar  in  a  stew  pan  throw  in  i  2  French  plums,  flavor 
with  a  piece  of  cinnamon  and  some  thin  rind  of  lemon,  let  them 
stew  for  20  minutes,  then  turn  them  into  a  basin  to  cool ;  take  them 


364  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

from  the  syrup  and  eat  dry ;  while  stewing  some  add  either  port, 
sherry  or  claret  wine  and  water. 

COOKING  RAISINS. — When  scalded  allow  them  to  cook  in  a  tightly 
covered  vessel  not  opened  until  done  ;  they  are  plumper  and  more 
palatable,  and  can  be  eaten  without  injury  to  most  dyspeptics. 

TOAST. — Is  much  lighter  and  better  made  from  a  loaf  that  is  24 
hours  old  or  more.  It  is  preferable  to-  cut  lengthwise  of  the  loaf, 
leaving  the  crust,  bottom  and  top,  than  around  the  edges  of  the 
slices.  A  fire  for  toasting  should  be  free  from  smoke  and  flame,  but 
clear  and  bright.  The  bread  should  be  held  on  an  iron  fork  with  2 
or  3  tines  and  a  long  handle,  so  that  you  can  stand  off  and  hold  the 
l>read  near  enough  to  toast  briskly,  and  moving  it  about  so  as  to 
toast  it  evenly  and  prevent  its  burning  in  one  part  before  the  rest  is 
done.  Plates  should  be  had  hot  in  readiness,  one  on  which  to  but- 
ter the  toast  and  the  other  to  slip  it  on  after  it  has  been  buttered. 
It  should  be  buttered  on  both  sides  and  served  as  quickly  as  possi- 
ble, and  not  piled  one  on  another,  each  round  being  on  a  separate 
plate.  For  buttering  toast  and  hot  rolls  good  salt  butter  answers 
very  well,  but  for  company  fresh  is  far  preferable.  Toast  for  butter- 
ing cold  or  eaten  dry  should  be  cut  thinner  and  baked  drier  than  for 
buttering  hot.  The  moment  taken  from  the  fire  it  should  be  put  in  a 
bread  rack  for  the  steam  to  evaporate,  and  to  prevent  its  being  moist, 
for  if  the  slices  are  laid  down  for  a  moment  and  come  in  contact, 
they  lose  all  their  crispness,  and  will  not  be  so  much  relished. 

DUTCH  EGG  SOUP. — Beat  up  the*  yolk  of  an  egg  in  a  pint  of  wa- 
ter, put  in  a  little  butter,  2  or  3  lumps  of  sugar,  stir  the  whole  all  the 
time  it  is  on  the  fire ;  when  it  begins  to  boil  pour  it  backwards  and 
forwards  between  the  sauce  pan  and  the  basin  till  it  is  smooth  and 
has  gained  a  froth.  It  is  good  when  cold. 

SCOTCH  BROTH. — One  teaspoonful  of  pearl  barley  into  i  gallon  of 
cold  water  and  let  it  boil ;  add  2  onions,  2  turnips,  2  carrots  cut  in 
dice  and  i  grated  carrot,  2  pounds  of  scrag  or  back  of  mutton,  or 
thin  flank  of  beef;  boil  slowly  for  3  hours,  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste  before  removing  from  the  fire. 

SOUP  A  LA  CANTATRICE — An  excellent  soup  ;  very  beneficial  for 
the  voice. — 3  ounces  of  sago,  1-2  pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
i  lump  of  sugar  and  seasoning  to  taste  ;  i  bay  leaf,  if  liked,  2  quarts 
of  medium  stock.  Having  washed  the  sago  in  boiling  water,  let  it 
be  gradually  added  to  the  nearly  boiling  stock,  simmer  for  1-2  hour; 
when  it  shall  be  well  dissolved  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  to 
them  the  boiling  cream,  stir  these  quick  in  the  soup  and  serve  im- 
mediately. Do  not  let  the  soup  boil,  or  the  eggs  will  curdle ;  forty 
minutes  to  cook  it ;  seasonable  at  any  time  ;  sufficient  for  8  persons. 

N.  B.  This  is  a  soup,  the  principal  ingredients  of  which,  sago  and 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  365 

eggs,  have  always  been  deemed  very  beneficial  to  the  chest  and 
throat.  In  various  quantities  and  in  different  preparations  these 
have  been  partaken  of  by  the  principal  singers  of  the  day,  including 
the  celebrated  Swedish  Nightingale,  Jenny  Lind,  and  as  they  have 
avowed,  always  with  considerable  advantage  to  the  voice  in  singing. 

ECONOMICAL  SOUP. — Put  4  ounces  of  clean  pearl  barley  and  as 
much  onion  sliced  into  5  quarts  of  wa'er,  let  them  boil  gently  one 
hour  and  pour  it  off,  then  put  into  a  pan  about  i  spoonful  of  gravy, 
clarified  suet  or  fat  bacon  minced.  When  this  is  melted  stir  there- 
in 3  spoonfuls  or  more  of  oat  or  corn  meal  and  make  the  whole 
into  a  paste;  next  add  gradually  the  brolh  and  bring  it  to  a  boil ; 
season  with  cayenne,  black  pepper  or  allspice.  The  flavor  may 
be  increased  by  garlic,  shalot  or  some  more  onion. 

A  NEW  DIETIC  SUBSTANCE  FOR  THE  SICK— Dr.  Goodman,  a 
member  of  the  British  Medical  Association. — This  artificial  febrine, 
as  food,  when  taken  into  the  stomach  creates  a  feeling  of  want, 
rather  than  a  decrease  of  appetite.  The  production  of  this  sub- 
stance is  within  the  reach  of  every  sick  man,  and  is  effected  with 
great  facility.  It  is  found  by  exposing  albuminous  material  to  the 
operation  or  influence  of  cold  water  for  a  given  period,  and  on  ac- 
count of  its  great  plenteousness  the  ordinary  hen's  egg  is  employed 
for  its  production.  When  the  shell  is  broken  and  removed,  and  its 
contents  are  immersed  in  cold  water  for  12  hours  or  so,  they  are 
found  to  undergo  a  chemico-molecular  change  and  become  solid 
and  insoluble.  This  change  is  indicated  by  the  assumption  by  the 
transparent  white  of  the  egg  of  an  opaque  and  snowy  white  appear- 
ance, which  far  surpasses  that  of  an  ordinary  boiled  egg.  The  pro- 
duct and  the  fluid  in  which  it  is  immersed  must  now  be  submitted  to 
the  action  of  the  heat  to  the  boiling  point,  when  the  febrine  will  be 
ready  for  use. 

NOTE — As  a  febrine  material  it  is  highly  nutricious  and  eminently 
adapted  to  all  cases  where  there  is  a  deficiency  of  febrine  in  the 
blood.  It  is  perhaps  unparalleled  in  its  quality  of  lightness  and 
digestibility,  and  is,  moreover,  a  great  delicacy.  In  many  urgent 
cases  of  rejection  of. food,  &c.,  it  will  remain  when  an  otherwise 
cooked  egg  would  not  be  tolerated  by  the  stomach. 

SOUP  FOR  INVALID. — To  a  pint  of  warm  water  add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cod  liver  oil,  shake  them  well  until  they  are  thoroughly  in- 
corporated. Take  a  clove  of  garlic  that  has  been  steeped  for  some 
24  hours  in  senna  tea  and  shred  it  into  the  liquid,  season  with  rhu- 
barb and  magnesia.  Some  forcemeat  balls  of  the  same  size  and  of 
the  samS  material  as  antibilious  pills.  Brown  with  a  salamander  and 
serve. 

BROTH  EEL,  VERY  STRENGTHENING. — After  cleaning  a  small  eel 


366  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

cut  it  in  slices,  then  put  them  into  a  small  sauce  pan  just  covered 
with  water,  add  2  button  onions,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  clove,  a 
little  salt,  then  simmer  very  gently  until  the  eels  are  tender,  when 
skim  off  the  fat,  pour  the  broth  over  a  sieve  or  strainer  into  a  cup. 
It  can  then  be  served  to  the  invalid,  but  only  one  spoonful  should 
be  taken  at  a  time. 

NOTE — The  patient  may  be  allowed  to  take  some  of  the  eel 
served  with  a  little  melted  sweet  butter  and  parsley. 

CHICKEN  OR  HEALING  BROTH  FOR  THE  SICK. — Cut  up  the  young 
fowl  and  put  it  to  stew  in  6  cupfuls  or  3  pints  of  water,  let  it  boil, 
removing  the  oil  as  it  rises  ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  mace  to  taste, 
as  invalids  require  salt.  Wash  2  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  barley  in 
different  clean  waters  until  it  ceases  to  be  milky,  and  put  this  into 
the  chicken  water,  then  also  add  i  ounce  of  marsh  mallow  root,  cut 
up  fine  for  the  purpose  of  extracting  its  curative  properties;  boil  i 
hour,  then  strain,  bottle  and  keep  ready  for  use,  when  it  can  be 
warmed  over. 

ICELAND  OR  ANV  OTHER  Moss,  AND  CHICKEN  BROTH. — Wash  your 
chicken,  young  and  tender,  thoroughly,  divide  it  into  four  parts,  re- 
move the  lungs  and  place  it  in  a  stew  pan  with  4  ounces  of  the  moss, 
a  little  salt  and  6  cups  of  water,  boil  3-4  of  an  hour  on  the  corner  of 
the  stove,  then  strain  it  through  a  cloth  and  serve. 

IN  boiling  eggs  for  invalids  let  them  get  very  hot,  or  the  white  just 
set.  If  boiled  hard  they  will  disagree  with  the  patient,  he  not  being 
able  to  digest  it. 

SHANK  BROTH  OR  JELLY,  CHEAP  AND  VERY  NOURISHING. — Let 
12  mutton  shanks  soak  four  hours,  then  scour  them  very  clean;  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  bit  of  lean  beef,  a  crust  of  very  brown 
roasted  bread,  and,  (if  possible)  an  onion  or  any  kind  of  herb  and 
flour ;  add  4  quarts  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  as  gently  as  possible  for 
5  or  6  hours,  then  strain  off.  It  will  be  a  nice  jelly  and  keep  good 
for  several  days. 

RICE  BLANC  MANGE. — Steep  four  ounces  of  well  washed  and 
perfect  rice  in  water ;  let  it  drain  and  boil  to  a  mash  in  new  milk 
with  sugar,  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon.  Take  care 
it  does  not  burn,  and  when  quite  soft,  pour  it  into  cups,  or  a  shape 
dipped  in  cold  water.  When  cold  turn  out.  Garnish  with  jelly. 

FRENCH  MILK  PORRIDGE. — Stir  oatmeal  into  a  small  portion 
of  water,  and  let  it  stand  until  clear,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  pour 
fresh  upon  it.  Stir  it  well  and  let  it  remain  unHi  next  day.  Strain 
through  a  fine  seive  and  boil  the.  water,  and  while  doing  s'o  add  the 
milk.  This  should  be  served  with  toast  for  the  breakfast  *bf  weak 
persons. 

THICKENED  MILK. — Good  for  diarrhea  in  old  or  young  persons. 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  367 

The  nicest  way  to  make  it. — Take  1-2  gallon  of  morning's  milk,  not 
skimmed,  and  put  on  to  boil,  skimming  occasionally,  break  a  fresh 
egg  into  flour  well  salted,  stir  it,  and  rub  it  between  the  hands  until 
all  the  flour  that  can  has  been  worked  into  it,  then  just  as  the  milk 
reaches  the  boiling  point,  scatter  it  in,  stirring  all  the  time — one  min- 
ute will  have  cooked  all  the  lumps  ;  pour  into  a  basin,  and  then  add 
a  good  lump  of  butter.  This  is  a  good  and  safe  food  any  time  of 
the  year.  Note. — Always  have  1-2  cupful  of  water  in  the  kettle 
before  the  milking  is  put  in,  as  that  will  prevent  it  from  burning. 

TIGER'S  MILK. — An  Indian  Morning  Draught. — Beat  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  add  2  table  spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  3  cloves,  the 
thin  rind  of  1-2  moll  lemon,  and  1-2  pint  of  brandy;  pour  over  it 
a  quart  of  warm  new  milk,  grate  1-4  nutmeg  over  it,  and  serve 
immediately. 

MILK  CREAM  FOR  THE  SICK. — HUNGARIAN. — Stir  the  yolks  of 
one  or  two  fresh  eggs  and  sugar  together,  and  i  pint  of  new  milk,  i 
table  spoonful  of  rum  or  arak,  allowing  i  table  spoonful  of  sugar  to 
one  yolk  of  egg,  which  roll  together  until  smooth. 

RICE  MILK  SEASONED  (FRENCH)  FOR  INVALID. — This,  with  riz  au 
lait  is  nutritious  for  those  who  are  recovering  from  a  long  illness. 
Drain  a  table  spoonful  of  well  washed  rice,  put  it  into  a  stewpan 
with  two  cups  of  milk,  as  soon  as  it  boils,  let  it  simmer  until  quite 
tender;  add  an  oz.  of  butter,  2  teaspoonsful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt 
and  stir  until  well  mixed,  and  serve  when  required.  It  must  be  of 
the  thickness  of  common,  well  made  water  gruel.  If  wished  add  a 
few  drops  of  orange  flower  water  as  the  French  do. 

LIQUID  NOURISHMENT  FOR  SICK  STOMACHS. — D.  M.  J. — One 
well-beaten  egg,  to  which  add  2  cups  of  milk  and  salt  to  make  it 
palatable  ;  let  it  be  boiled,  and  when  cold,  any  quantity  may  be 
eaten.  Note. — It  is  useless  if  it  turns  to  curds  and  whey. 

EGGS  FOR  THE  SICK. — Fresh  eggs  are  a  great  comfort  to  many 
invalids.  As  soon  as  possible,  after  an  egg  is  laid  and  cooled,  dip  it 
in  a  vessel  of  glycerine  or  gum  arabic,  dissolved  with  water  to  the 
consistency  of  new,  warm  milk,  put  them  away  in  charcoal  dust 
or  fine  dry  sand  in  a  cool  place  or  dry  cellar,  and  they  will  remain 
fresh  for  weeks. 

FOR  POACHING  EGGS. — Each  egg  must  be  broken  into  separate 
cups,  and  from  there  carefully  slipped  into  a  large  frying  pan  of 
boiling  water.  As  soon  as  the  whites  become  hard  they  are 
done  enough  and  must  be  taken  up  with  a  spoon  or  flat  shovel  and 
slipped  into  a  dish  on  toast  and  butter  or  rice,  on  sausage  or  on  a  dish 
with  butter  melted  and  pepper. 

COCOA. — Cocoa  is  better  than  chocolate  for  weak  stomachs  ;  while 
it  imparts  equal  nourishment,  it  is  better  of  disgestion  and  is  made 


368  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

/ 

by  boiling  in  water  for  a  considerable  time,  then  pouring  off  and 
mixing  with  warm  milk  and  sugar  to  taste;  2  dessert  spoonsful 
will  make  a  pint.  If  pure,  it  will  nearly  all  dissolve.  The  cocoa 
paste  is  now  very  much  in  use,  both  as  chocolate  and  cocoa.  It 
is  good  and  the  method  of  preparing  it,  simple.  Stir  a  large  tea 
spoonful  of  the  paste  into  a  cupful  of  boiling  water.  This  makes 
a  cupful  of  nice  chocolate,  add  sugar  and  milk  to  taste.  A  much 
smaller  quantity  of  the  cocoa  paste  will  do,  but  a  sugar  pudding 
of  milk  is  generally  used.  Cakes  or  toast  is  commonly  eaten  with 
little  chocolate  and  cocoa. 

HONEY  OR  TREACLE  POSSET. — Into  1-2  pint  of  boiling  milk,  or, 
milk  and  water,  stir  a  large  spoonful  of  honey  or  treacle,  let  it  boil 
up  quickly,  then  set  it  aside  for  the  curd  to  settle,  and  when  it  has 
done  so,  strain  it  for  use. 

SACK  POSSET. — Beat  12  eggs  and  strain  them  ;  then  put  1-2  pound 
of  lump  sugar  into  a  pint  of  white  wine,  mix  the  same  with  the  eggs. 
Set  the  whole  over  a  chafing  dish  and  keep  it  stirred  until  scalding 
hot.  In  the  meantime,  grate  some  nutmeg  into  a  quart  of  milk  and 
heat  it ;  then  pour  it  over  the  eggs  and  wine,  holding  your  hand  high 
while  doing  it,  and  stiring  all  the  while ;  then  take  it  off,  set  it 
before  the  fire  and  it  will  be  ready. 

WINE  POSSET. — Boil  a  quart  of  new  milk  with  the  crumb  of  a 
penny  loaf,  until  the  bread  is  soft ;  then  take  it  off,  grate  therein  1-2 
nutmeg  and  some  sugar,  put  it  into  a  basin  with  a  pint  of  port  wine, 
very  gradually,  or  it  will  make  the  curd  hard  and  rough.  Serve  with 
toast. 

ALE  POSSET. — Boil  a  slice  of  bread  in  a  pint  of  new  milk;  take  a 
bottle  of  mild  ale  in  «an  earthen  dish  or  china  bowl ;  season  and 
sweeten  to  suit ;  then  pour  the  boiling  milk  over  it;  when  the  bread 
rises,  serve  it. 

MILK  THICKENED. — Boil  i  quart  of  milk  and  wet  3  table  spoonsful 
of-  fine  sifted  flour,  roll  it  up  in  a  soft  smooth  paste,  and  when  the 
milk  boils  up,  stir  it  in  and  continue  to  stir  and  boil  for  ten  minutes  ; 
add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the  milk,  and  when  done,  sweeten  it  to  taste 
and  grate  nutmeg  over  it. 

STRENGTHENING  JELLY. — One  ounce  each  of  rice,  sugar,  pearl 
barley  ;  boil  in  two  quarts  of  water  until  reduced  to  1-2.  Strain  in  a 
mould,  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste.  A  tea-cupful  night,  noon 
and  morning. 

IRISH  Moss  TO  PREPARE  FOR  THR  SICK.— Soak  a  scant  hand- 
ful of  Irish  moss  in  strong  soda  water  until  it  swells  ;  then  squeeze 
the  moss  until  it  is  free  from  water ;  put  it  in  a  tin  bucket  which 
contains  6  pints  of  pure  milk  ;  set  the  bucket  in  a  large  iron  pot  which 
holds  several  pints  of  hot  water  ;  stir  seldom,  and  let  it  remain  until 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  369 

it  will  jelly  slightly  by  dropping  on  a  cold  plate  ;  strain  through  a  seive 
sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Rinse  a  mould  or  a  stone  jar  with 
warm  water,  not  hot;  pour  in  the  mixture  and  set  it  away  to  cool. 
In  a  few  hours  it  will  be  palatable,  eat  with  cream  and  sugar.  Some 
prefer  jelly. 

OMELET  FOR  THE  SICK. — A  Nebraska  receipt. — Four  eggs  well 
beaten,  5  table  spoonsful  of  sweet  milk  put  in  the  eggs  ;  i  table-spoon- 
ful sweet  butter  or  lard  (fresh),  put  the  iard  in  the  pan  ;  when  thor- 
oughly heated,  pour  in  1-2  the  eggs,  when  nicely  brown  roll  it  over  ; 
then  cook  the  other  half  in  the  same  way. 

FOR  DEBILITY  OR  Loss  OF  APPETITE. — Eat  a  lemon  with  or 
without  sugar  before  breakfast  for  a  full  week ;  is  better  than 
medicine.  Sometimes  cures  consumption. 

ANOTHER. — Put  12  lemons  in  cold  water  and  bring  them  slowly 
to  a  boil,  then  boil  slowly  until  the  lemons  are  soft,  then  roll  them  a 
little  and  squeeze  until  the  juice  is  extracted,  then  sweeten  with 
sugar ;  use  this  in  one  day  until  you  are  better.  If  they  produce 
pain,  use  only  five  or  six  a  day  until  you  are  better,  and  then  begin 
to  use  twelve  a  day  again.  After  using  five  or  six  dozen,  the  patient 
will  gain  flesh  and  enjoy  food ;  then  still  continue  the  use  of  the 
lemons  for  several  weeks  more.  This  is  valuable  in  sickness  at 
any  time.  Note.  —  To  keep  it  well  after  boiling  strain  the 
juice,  and  to  every  half  pint,  add  i  Ib.  of  loaf  or  crust  sugar ;  then 
boil  a  few  minutes  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  skim  carefully  and 
bottle  closely.  You  get  more  of  the  juice  by  boiling  them  and  it 
keeps  better. 

BARLEY  MILK  FOR  CONSUMPTIVES. — Boil  1-2  Ib.  of  washed  pearl 
barley  in  one  quart  of  milk  and  a  tumblerful  of  water  and  sweeten  ; 
boil  it  again,  and  drink  it  when  almost  cold. 

CAUDLE. — This  was  formerly  and  unanimously  used  as  a  tonic,  as 
well  as  nourishing  to  women  immediately  after  their  confinements ; 
but  it  is  now  considered  highly  injurious  from  its  heating  tendency, 
both  to  mothers  and  their  infants,  which  are  now  confined  to  more 
simple  and  rational  diet.  Candle  has  given  place  to  coffee  and  sim- 
ilar morning  refreshments.  It  has  gone  out  of  use  except  as  a 
luxury. 

CAUDLE. — Make  a  thick  gruel  or  very  thin  mash  of  common  oat 
meal ;  for  every  cup  of  caudle  required,  allow  2  or  3  table-spoon- 
ful of  the  purest  and  best  brandy,  or  2  of  brandy  and  2  of  pure  wine, 
i  spoonful  of  moist  sugar,  a  few  grains  of  spice  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
These  should  be  put  in  a  jug  ;  large  enough  to  contain  the  whole ; 
pour  the  gruel  to  them  boiling  hot,  and  well  stirred  up  ;  then  pour  it 
into  cups  or  glasses  and  serve  with  cakes,  biscuits  or  dry  toast. 

BEEF  TEA,  SOYER'S,  NEW  WAY  FOR  INVALIDS. — Take  a  pound  of  firm 


370  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

beef,  and  cut  into  very  small  pieces,  and  put  it  into  a  stew  pan  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  butter  or  more,  2  button  onions,  a  salt  spoonful  of 
salt,  a  clove.  Stir  the  meat  round  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes, 
until  it  produces  a  thin  gravy,  then  add  2  pints  of  water;  let  the  whole 
simmer  over  the  corner  of  the  stove  or  fire  for  30  minutes,  removing 
all  the  fat ;  as  soon  as  done,  strain  through  a  sieve.  Passing  broth 
through  a  cloth  often  spoils  its  flavor.  NOTE. — If  the  invalid  wants 
it  plain,  the  vegetables,  clove  and  salt  may  be  omitted. 

A  BAKED  SOUP. — Put  a  pound  of  any  kind  of  meat  cut  in  slices, 
2  onions,  2  carrots,  cut  in  pieces,  2  large  spoonfuls  of  rice,  2  cup- 
fuls  of  split  peas,  or  whole  ones,  if  previously  soaked,  pepper  and 
salt  into  an  earthen  jug  or  pan,  and  pour  i  gallon  of  water,  cover 
it  very  close  and  bake  it  with  the  bread.  The  cook  should  be 
charged  to  save  the  boiling  of  every  piece  of  meat,  ham,  tongue, 
&c.,  however  salt,  as  it  is  easy  to  use  only  a  part  of  that  and 
the  rest  of  fresh  water,  and  by  the  addition  of  more  vegetables, 
the  bones  of  the  meat  used  in  the  family,  the  pieces  of  meat  that 
come  from  the  table  unused,  rice  or  barley  or  oatmeal,  gal- 
lons of  nutricious  soup  can  be  made  several  times  during  the 
week.  The  bits  of  meat  should  be  only  warmed  in  the  soup  and 
remain  whole ;  the  bones,  &c.,  boiled  till  they  yield  their  nourish- 
ment. Take  turnips,  carrots,  leeks,  potatoes,  the  outer  leaves  of 
cabbage,  celery,  or  any  sort  of  vegetable  that  is  at  hand ;  cut  them 
small  and  strew  in  with  the  thick  part  of  peas  after  they  have  been 
pulped  for  soup  and  grits  or  coarse  oat  meal.  In  every  family  there 
is  some  superfluity,  and  if  it  be  prepared  with  cleanliness  and  care, 
the  benefit  will  be  very  great  to  the  receiver  and  the  comfort  and 
satisfaction  no  less  to  the  giver. 

What  a  relief  to  the  laboring  husband,  instead  of  bread  and  cof- 
fee to  have  a  warm,  comfortable  meal.  How  important  to  the  aged, 
sick  and  infant  branches,  nor  less  to  the  industrious  mother,  whose 
forbearance  from  the  necessary  quantity  of  food  that  others  may 
have  a  larger  share,  frequently  reduces  that  strength  upon  which  the 
welfare  of  her  family  essentially  depends.  Fish  affords  great  nourish- 
ment, and  that  not  by  the  part  eaten  only,  but  the  bones,  heads  and 
fins,  which  contain  isinglass.  When  the  fish  is  served,  let  the  cook 
save  some  of  the  water  in  which  it  has  been  boiled,  add  some 
drippings,  an  onion  or  two,  some  pepper,  a  little  rice  flour  rub- 
bed into  it  after  it  has  stewed,  season  with  parsley  or  celery.  It 
makes  an  excellent  broth.  The  gravy  of  the  fish  may  be  added 
also,  but  strained.  It  makes  a  delicious  improvement  to  the  meat 
soup,  particularly  for  the  sick,  and  when  such  are  to  be  supplied 
the  milder  parts  of  the  spare  bones  and  meat  should  be  used  for 
them,  with  little,  if  any  of  the  liquid  of  the  salt  meats.  As  the 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  371 

poor  like  it,  and  are  nourished  by  it  the  fat  should  not  be  taken 
off  the  broth  or  soup.  There  is  not  a  better  occasion  for  charita- 
ble commiseration  than  when  a  person  is  sick  ;  a  bit  of  meat  or 
pudding  sent  unexpectedly  has  often  been  the  means  of  recalling 
long-lost  appetite. 

Nor  are  the  indigent  alone  the  grateful  receivers;  for  in  the 
highest  houses  a  real  good,  sick  cook  is  rarely  met  with,  and  many 
who  possess  all  the  goods  of  fortune  have  attributed  the  the  first 
return  of  health  to  an  appetite  excited  by  "  kitchen  physic." 

It  rarely  happens  that  servants  do  not  second  the  kindness  of  their 
superiors  to  the  poor ;  but  should  the  cook  in  any  family  think  the 
adoption  of  this  plan  too  troublesome,  a  gratuity  at  the  end  of  the 
winter  might  repay  her,  if  the  love  of  her  fellow  creatures  fail  of 
doing  it  a  hundred-fold.  Did  she  readily  enter  into  it,  she  would 
never  wash  away  as  useless  the  peas  or  grits  of  which  soup  or  gruel 
had  been  made ;  broken  potatoes,  the  green  heads  of  celery,  the 
necks,  heads  and  feet  of  fowls,  the  shanks  of  mutton,  and  various 
other  articles,  which,  in  preparing  dinner  for  the  family,  are  thrown 
aside. 

AN  EXCELLENT  SOUP  FOR  THE  WEAKLY. — Put  2  cowheels  and  a 
breast  of  mutton  into  a  large  pan  with  4  ounces  of  rice,  i  onion, 
20  very  small  red  or  green  peppers,  and  20  black  ;  a  turnip,  a  carrot 
and  4  gallons  of  water;  cover  with  brown  paper  and  bake  6  hours. 

CAUDLE  FOR  THE  SICK  AND  LYING-IN. — Set  3  quarts  of  water  on 
the  fire,  mix  smooth  as  much  oat  meal  as  will  thicken  the  whole  with 
a  pint  of  cold  water ;  when  boiling  pour  the  latter  in  and  20  very 
small  Jamaica  peppers  in  fine  powder;  boil  to  a  middling  thickness, 
then  add  sugar,  a  cupful  of  well  fermented  table  beer  and  a  glass  of 
gin  ;  boil  all.  This  mess  of  broth  taken  once  or  twice  will  be 
of  incalculable  service. 

SCOTCH  BREWIS. — A  strengthening  dish.--Pour  the  desired  quantity 
of  boiling  milk  into  the  proper  quantity  of  oatmeal  in  a  bowl  and 
stir  it  till  it  somewhat  cools,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  without  further 
preparation  eat  it.  It  is  very  sustaining. 

PRESENTS  of  bed-clothing,  cast-off  garments,  such  as  old  flannels, 
stockings,  socks,  body  linen,  shoes,  bonnets,  &c.,  are  often  very  ac- 
ceptable to  the  poor,  particularly  in  winter,  when  a  warm  wrapping 
of  any  kind,  or  some  fuel  would  augment  their  comfort  immeasura- 
bly. 

MILK  PORRIDGE. — Great  care  should  be  bestowed  on  the  quality 
of  the  milk  used  for  invalids  and  infants.  First,  especially,  that  the 
milk  be  fresh  and  sweet,  for  a  smaller  proportion  of  fresh,  new  milk 
diluted  with  water  is  greatly  prefirable  to  a  larger  quantity  of  that 
from  which  the  cream  has  been  removed.  Second,  that  it  is  by  all 


372 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 


means  best  to  avoid  boiling  the  milk.  The  other  ingredients  should  be 
well  boiled  and  of  sufficient  thickness  to  admit  the  milk  being  stirred 
in  to  cool  and  to  thin  it.  Either  grits  or  oatmeal  gruel  will  answer 
the  purpose,  to  which  has  been  allowed  double  the  usual  proportion 
of  thickening,  and  in  which  a  stick  of  cinnamon  has  been  boiled  ; 
when  strained  off  add  an  equal  quantity  of  new  milk,  a  little  nut- 
meg and  if  wished  a  small  piece  of  fresh  butter.  Some  persons 
prefer  salt  rather  than  sugar  or  nutmeg. 

ARROW  ROOT  (Indian.) — It  may  be  made  either  with  milk  or  with 
wine  and  water  ;  a  tablespoonful  makes  1-2  pint.  It  must  be  made 
into  a  paste  with  milk  or  cold  water  and  worked  until  no  lumps  re- 
main, increasing  gradually  the  milk  or  water  to  2  spoonfuls,  then 
stir  it  into  the  remainder  while  boiling;  when  it  boils  a  minute  or 
two  it  will  do.  If  made  with  milk  it  may  be  flavored  with  nutmeg 
or  cinnamon,  sweetened  with  loaf  sugar  (heavily),  or  according  to 
the  state  of  the  bowels.  If  confined,  moist  sugar  is  better,  if  not, 
use  the  loaf.  If  arrow  root  is  to  be  made  of  wine,  a  glass  of  white 
wine  or  a  large  spoonful  of  good  brandy  is  the  quantity  for  1-2  pint. 
The  sugar,  wine  and  water  may  be  boiled  together  and  the  arrow 
root  moistened  as  directed  with  cold  water. 

SAGO — Soak  the  grains  for  one  hour  in  cold  water,  changing  the 
water.  Simmer  with  a  bit  of  lemon  or  orange  peel  till  the  grains 
appear  transparent.  When  nearly  done  add  nutmeg,  cloves,  mace, 
and  allspice,  with  wine  and  sugar,  all  to  taste.  Then  give  the  whole 
a  boil  up,  and  it  is  ready  to  be  dished  up. 

SAGO. — There  are  two  sorts  of  Sago,  the  white  and  the  yellow, 
but  their  properties  are  the  same.  It  is  the  pith  of  a  species  of 
palm.  Its  form  is  that  of  a  small  broad  grain  or  berry.  After  it  has 
absorbed  the  liquor  in  which  it  has  been  cooked,  it  becomes  soft, 
transparent,  and  retains  its  original  shape.  Its  properties  are  the 
same  as  arrowroot  and  tapioca,  in  an  alimentary  way. 

TAPIOCA. — Take  a  large  tablespoonful  of  tapioca  and  wash  it  in 
3  or  4  waters ;  having  done  this,  let  it  macerate  for  five  hours  in  the 
water  in  which  it  is  to  be  boiled,  in  a  pan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  or 
stove.  Simmer  it  till  quite  clear,  and  add  lemon  juice,  wine,  loaf 
sugar,  or  other  flavoring  ingredients  to  taste,  and  a  little  salt.  It 
should  be  boiled  in  a  quart  of  water  till  reduced  to  one-half, 

CORN  MEAL  GRUEL. — Mix  a  portion  of  meal  with  cold  water,  and 
then  pour  into  a  stew  pan  of  water  and  let  boil  10  minutes;  add  a 
pinch  of  salt.  An  excellent  drink  while  under  the  influence  of  med- 
icine, in  ordinary  cases,  and  an  excellent  drink  to  take  on  a  fasting 
stomach  in  the  morning  by  those  who  suffer  from  constipation. 

GRUEL  OF  GRITS. — A  good  flavored  and  most  nourishing  gruel  is 
made  of  oats  cleaned  from  the  chaff,  and  slightly  crushed ;  by  some 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS.  373 

they  are  called  grits,  in  different  parts  of  the  country.  The  saucepan 
used  for  this  purpose  should  be  kept  particularly  clean  and  nice,  and 
of  block  tin.  One-half  pint  of  grits  will  make  2  quarts  of  gruel,  and 
after  being  strained  off,  the  grits  may  be  boiled  again,  and  will  make 
i  quart  more.  To  prevent  it^from  burning,  the  gruel  should  be 
stirred  often  from  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan.  The  first  boiling  will 
require  45  minutes  and  the  second  rather  longer.  When  strained  off 
let  it  be  set  by  in  a  clean  vessel  and  in  a  cool  place.  In  cold 
weather  gruel  should  be  made  fresh  every  other  day,  and  in  warm 
weather  daily.  Some  persons  prefer  a  bit  of  butter  and  salt ;  other  as 
little  sugar  and  nutmeg ;  for  sick  persons,  or  women  in  confinement, 
the  more  simple  it  is  done  the  better.  When  made  very  thick  and  re- 
duced with  milk,  this  gruel  forms  a  good  milk  porridge ;  or  thinned 
and  enriched  with  wine,  spirits,  sugar  and  spices,  it  is  called  caudle. 

MEAT  PANADO. — Sometimes,  when  the  stomach  is  too  weak  to 
digest  animal  nutriment  in  a  solid  form,  it  can  be  given  in  the 
•form  of  broth  or  jelly,  when  the  person  has  no  appetite  for  meat. 
When  this  is  the  case,  take  the  meat  of  a  bird,  rabbit,  squirrel  or 
chicken,  (the  white  part)  partially,  but  not  thoroughly  boiled,  per- 
fectly remove  the  skin,  slice  it  as  fine  as  possible  and  beat  it  in  a 
mortar  to  a  paste  with  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled ; 
put  a  pinch  of  salt  and  nutmeg  and  a  little  scrap  of  lemon  peel ; 
simmer  it  gently  for  a  few  minutes,  with  as  much  of  the  liquor  as  will 
bring  it  to  the  thickness  of  gruel.  Beef,  mutton,  veal  or  venison 
roasts  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  with  a  little  of  the  gravy 
from  the  dish,  if  there  be  no  butter  in  it.  The  white  meats  are  the 
the  most  easily  shredded.  Or,  it  is  a  very  good  way,  when  a  person 
cannot  eat  solid  food,  and  yet  needs  nourishment,  to  lay  two  or  three 
small  pieces  of  toasted  bread  in  the  dish  with  the  roast  joint  of  meat, 
and  as  the  gravy  flows  out  let  it  drip  on  the  bread  till  it  is  thoroughly 
moistened. 

DIET  FOR  CONVALESCENTS. — An  emulsion  of  raw  meat  8  oz.,with 
21-2  oz.  each  of  sweet  and  bitter  almonds  and  white  sugar,  beaten 
together  in  a  mortar  until  thoroughly  incorporated.  The  almonds 
should  be  blanched.  This  compound  may  be  beaten  up  with  milk 
and  water  to  any  consistency. 

DR.  RATCLIFF'S  RKST.  RATIVE  PORK  JELLY. — Take  a  leg  of  well  fed 
pork,  just  as  cut  up,  beat  it,  and  break  the  bone.  Set  it  over  a  gentle 
fire  with  3  gallons  of  water,  and  simmer  to  one.  Add  1-2  oz.  mace, 
and  the  same  of  nutmeg,  stew  it,  strain  through  a  sieve  when  cold, 
and  take  off  the  fat.  Give  a  chocolate  cup  the  first  and  last  thing  in 
the  morning,  evening,  and  at  noon.  Putting  salt  to  taste. 

TAPIOCA. — Choose  the  largest  sort,  pour  cold  water  on  to  wash  2 
or  3  times,  then  soak  it  in  fresh  water  5  or  6  hours,  and  simmer  it  in 


374 


COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 


the  same  until  it  becomes  clear ;  then  put  lemon  juice,  wine  and 
sugar.  The  paste  should  have  been  boiled  in  it.  It  thickens  very 
much. 

EGG  DRINK  FOR  WEAK  INVALIDS. — Take  an  egg,  or  the  yolk  of  it, 
beat  it  well  with  sugar,  then  pour  gradually  enough  brandy  or  pure 
whiskey  to  cook  it,  stirring  all  the  time;  or  it  can  be  beaten  sepa- 
rately, stirring  sugar  to  the  yolk,  then  pour  in  the  spirit;  then  enough 
milk  to  nearly  fill  the  tumbler,  then  add  the  beaten  white. 

HOMEOPATHIC  INVALID  CAKES. — Mix  to  the  consistency  of  rather 
a  stiff  paste,  i  cupful  of  fine  flour  and  some  good  cream,  roll  out  as 
thin  as  a  wafer,  make  in  cakes  as  large  as  a  coffee  cup,  prick  them 
with  a  fork  on  both  sides,  bake  in  an  iron  pan.  Excellent  for  an 
invalid. 

HERB  TEAS. — Mint  tea  will  sometimes  relieve  nausea;  use,  if  pos- 
sible, the  green  leaves.  Tea,  of  the  white  raspberry  leaves 
with  a  piece  of  salt  peter  as  large  as  a  pea  to  a  tumblerful  of  tea,  is 
good  for  stranguary.  Tea  of  mullen  and  sassafras  will  purify  the 
blood.  Cold  teas  of  flax-seed  and  slippery  elm,  are  good  for  colds, 
coughs,  influenzas,  etc.  A  little  lemon  juice  is  a  valuable  addition. 
Balm,  catnip,  pennyroyal,  and  sage,  are  good  drinks  in  fever,  to  pro- 
mote perspiration.  Use  green  or  dried  leaves  in  making  these  in- 
fusions. 

FOR  THE  SICK.  (A  Scotch  Recipe.) — Take  the  bran  of  oat-meal, 
soak  it  for  one  week,  or  until  it  sours,  strain  it.  Let  it  settle,  then 
pour  off  the  dark  water,  then  to  keep  it,  occasionally  pour  off  the 
water  and  pour  in  fresh.  To  make  it,  take  the  thick  part,  and  stir  it 
up  with  water,  and  stir  it  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  1-4  hour.  Let 
the  patient  eat  it  with  fresh  sweet  milk. 

BUMANGE,  FARINA,  FOR  INVALIDS.— Mix  with  a  little  new  milk,  i 
oz.  of  farina,  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Heat  the  remainder  of  the  pint  of 
milk  on  a  double  boiler,  and  when  simmering,  add  the  mixed  farina; 
stir  it  constantly,  until  it  thickens,  when  it  must  be  turned  into  wet 
moulds.  Serve  cold,  with  thick  cream,  sweetened,  flavored,  and 
whisked  till  light  and  foamy.  Invalids  should  not  eat  anything  fla- 
vored with  vanilla. 

CUSTARD  PUDDING  FOR  INVALIDS.— Put  into  a  pan,  2  cups  of  new 
milk,  with  a  little  lemon  peel,  and  1-2  a  sweet  bay  leaf  for  three 
minutes,  then  take  out  the  lemon  peel  and  leaf,  and  pour  the  milk  on 
3  beaten  eggs,  then  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  and  mix  well  together; 
pour  into  a  buttered  form  and  steam  for  20  minutes,  by  setting  the 
form  in  a  pan  containing  boiling  water ;  let  boil  slowly  until  the  pud- 
ding is  done,  then  turn  out  on  a  plate  and  serve.  The  water  should 
be  halfway  up  to  the  rim  of  the  form 

SPONGE  BISCUIT  PUDDING  FOR  INVALIDS.— Take  2  cups  of  boiling 


CONFECTIONS  FOR  THE  SICK.  375 

milk,  flavored  with  lemon  peel,  which  pour  over  a  spoonful  of  sponge 
biscuit,  and  let  it  stand  for  1-2  hour,  then  add  3  well  whisked  eggs, 
1-2  oz.  of  currants,  and  very  little  sugor.  Pour  into  a  buttered  form 
lined  with  seedless  raisins,  for  i  hour. 

BROWN  CAUDLE  OR  BEER. — If  made^  of  corn-meal  the  gruel 
should  be  made  very  thick,  enough  so  to  admit  of  nearly  an  equal 
quantity  of  good,  clear,  mild  beer,  which  should  be  stirred  in  while 
the  gruel  is  over  the  fire,  with  a  pinch  of  allspice  finely  beaten.  If 
meal  be  used,  it  should  be  mixed  with  beer,  and  stirred  into  an 
equal  portion  of  boiling  water  with  pounded  allspice  a  small  portion. 
Then  boiled  sufficiently,  strain  it  or  not ;  whether  corn  or  oat-meal 
gruel,  to  each  quart  add  a  large  table-spoonful  of  moist  sugar,  a  rasp 
or  two  of  nutmeg,  2  glasses  of  gin,  or  rather  more  than  one  of  brandy. 

RAISIN  GRUEL  FOB  THE  SICK, — (Dr.  G.) — Boil  1-2  Ib.  of  raisins, 
for  one  half  hour,  in  one  quart  of  milk  and  i  quart  of  water;  then 
strain  and  squeeze  out,  and  return  the  liquid  into  the  sauce  pan  or 
vessel  and  stir  in  and  boil  for  a  minute  the  article  with  which  you 
are  to  thicken  the  gruel — oat-meal,  corn-meal  or  flour,  as  the  case 
may  be.  The  raisins  make  it  sufficiently  sweet,  no  salt  is-required, 
but  a  little  cinnamon  or  spice  may  be  added ;  when  patients  are  fond 
of  eggs,  or  do  not  object  to  them,  as  some  do,  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
may  be  beaten  well  with  a  little  milk,  and  stirred  into  any  gruel  a  few 
minutes  before  it  is  done  boiling.  This  renders  the  article  more 
nutritious,  and,  when  the  patient  likes  it,  and  can  bear  it,  is  a  very 
good  addition. 

RICE  GRUEL. — Take  a  large  table-spoonful  of  rice  flour  and  mix 
to  a  stiff  paste,  with  cold  water;  then  stir  it  into  the  remainder  of  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  15  minutes  with  a  stick  of 
cinnamon,  and  a  little  rasped  dried  orange  peel ;  strain  it  off, 
sweeten  with  loaf  sugar,  and  add  a  half  glass  or  more  of  brandy. 
This  is  commonly  used  when  the  bowels  are  in  a  very  relaxed  state, 
and  it  is  desired  to  check  that  tendency.  Much  caution  should  how- 
ever, be  observed,  and,  it  is  seldom  safe  to  venture  on  the  use 
of  anything  of  a  heating  astringent  nature  without  proper  medical 
advice. 

CONFECTIONS  AND  CONSERVES  FOR  THE  SICK. 

PEPPERMINT. — Gather  the  peppermint  when  full  grown  and  before 
it  seeds.  Cut  it  into  small  pieces,  put  them  in  a  still  and  cover 
them  with  water;  have  a  good  fire  underneath  and  when  boiling  and 
the  still  begins  to  drop,  if  the  heat  is  too  great,  remove  a  small  por- 
tion of  the  fire  away,  that  it  may  not  boil  over.  The  slower  the  still 
drops,  the  stronger  will  be  the  water.  The  next  day  bottle  off,  and 
after  standing  2  or  3  days  cork  well. 


CONFECTIONS  FOR  THE  SICK. 

BITTER  ORANGE  SUGAR. — Wipe  a  good  sound,  bitter  orange  in  a 
clean  cloth,  rub  off  the  yellow  part  of  the  peel  with  the  sugar,  scrape 
this  off  with  a  knife,  pound  and  sift  it,  and  keep  it  well  canistered. 
LEMON  AND  ORANGE  PEEL  can  be  made  in  the  same  way. 
VANILLA  SUGAR. — A  small  piece  of  vanilla  is   dried  in  a  warm 
place,  then  pounded  together  with  2  oz.  of  sugar,  sifted  and  kept  in 
a  canister. 

Hip. — The  fruit  of  a  rose,  the  fleshy  part  beaten  to  a  pulp  and 
preserved  in  sugar,  is  a  medicine  slightly  cooling  and  astringent,  and 
is  often  used  as  a  basis  of  other  medicines.  It  is  a  popular  remedy 
for  ascarides,  or  pin  worms. 

CONSERVES  OF  ORANGE  OR  LEMONS. — Grate  the  rind  of  an 
orange  or  lemon  in  a  bowl  or  dish,  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  fruit  over 
it,  mix  the  white  with  a  spoon.  Then  boil  some  sugar  high,  mix  the 
fruit  therewith,  and  when  thick  enough,  put  it  into  moulds. 
Conserve  of  orange  peel  is  made  by  steeping  the  rinds  in  water, 
moderately  heated,  until  tender ;  and  then  straining  and  pounding 
them  in  a  marble  mortar.  After  this,  the  pulp  is  brought  to  a  proper 
consistency  over  a  gentle  fire,  with  the  addition  of  3  times  its  quan- 
tity of  sugar,  the  white  is  then  rendered  to  a  conserve  by  beating  in 
a  mortar. 

CONSERVE  OF  ROSES. — Take  i  Ib.  of  red  rosebuds,  cleared  of 
their  hulls,  beat  them  well  in  a  mortar,  and  add  by  degrees  2  Ibs.  of 
double  refined  sugar  in  powder  until  reduced  to  a  conserve. 

CONSERVE  OF  ROSE  OR  THORNBERRIES  AND  HAWS. — Useful  con- 
serves are  made  of  these  hedge  fruits,  either  separately  or  in  equal 
parts,  the  skins,  seeds  and  hair  parts  must  be  carefully  removed, 
and  that  part  alone  used  which  is  of  itself  almost  pulp ;  then  pro- 
ceed in  the  same  manner  as  with  roses.  A  dram  or  2  of  these  con- 
serves dissolved  in  milk  is  given  as  a  gentle  astringent  in  weakness 
of  the  stomach,  phthisical  coughs,  and  spitting  of  blood  ;  but  to 
expect  considerable  effects,  at  least  three  or  four  ounces  should  be 
taken  daily  for  some  time  together.  In  like  manner  conserves  may 
be  of  orange  peel,  rosemary  flowers,  sea-wormwood,  sorrel  leaves, 
&c.,  but  none  are  so  valuable  as  the  rose  or  thornberries  and  haws. 
BLACK  PEPPER  CONFECTIONS. — Sir  B.  Brodie,  P.  L. — One  pound 
i  ounce  each  of  black  pepper  and  elecampane  root,  i  Ib.  3  oz.  fen- 
nel seed,  i  Ib.  2  oz.  each  of  white  sugar  and  honey,  this  should 
always  be  accompanied  by  a  mild  aperient. 

CONSERVES  OF  LAVENDER — Used  frequently  to  sweeten  the 
breath. — Lavender  flowers  i  part,  lump  sugar  3  parts,  beat  together. 
Using  twice  this  weight  in  sugar,  conserves  of  leaves  and  flowers  are 
made  in  a  similar  way. 

CAMPHOR  JULEP. — Take  one  semple  (20  grains)  of  camphor;  one 


DUCHESS  OF  SUNDERLAND  RECIPES.  377 

half  an  ounce  of  white  sugar ;  brandy  or  whiskey  a  tea  spoonful ;  hot 
water  one  pint.  Pour  the  spirits  on  the  camphor,  rub  it  thoroughly 
with  the  sugar,  and  very  gradually  add  the  water,  constantly  stirring 
during  the  operation.  Finally  strain  the  whole  through  fine  muslin  twice 
folded,  and  bottle  it.  It  is  always  readjfcfor  use,  and  will  keep  in 
any  climate.  Note. — This  is  very  valuable  where  a  medical  man 
cannot  be  called  in.  It  is  antispasmodic  in  nervous  and  hysterical 
affections,  convulsive  sobs  produced  by  grief,  distressing  hiccough, 
hysterical  convulsions,  and  protracted  sickness.  The  dose  may 
vary  from  a  half  a  wine  glass  full  to  double  that  quantity  according 
to  the  severity  of  attack  or  age  of  the  patient. 

CONFECTIONS  OF  ALMONDS. — Sweet  almonds  8  oz.,  white  sugar 
4  oz.,  powdered  gumarabic  i  oz.  Macerate  the  whole  in  cold  water 
then  remove  the  skins,  and  beat  them  with  other  ingredients  until 
reduced  to  a  smooth  confection. 

DUCHESS  OF  SUNDERLAND  EECIPES. 

Genuine  autograph  recipes  copied  from  a  manuscript  recipe  book 
of  Mrs.  Tisdal,  who  was  Prima  Dona  to  the  Duchess  of  Sunderland, 
obtained  through  the  kindness  of  her  daughter,  Mrs.  O'Neil  of  San 
Francisco,  Cal. 

To  MAKE  OYSTER  SOUP. — Take  the  bones  from  a  codfish  that 
had  been  left  at  dinner  the  day  before  and  put  them  to  boil  in  two 
quarts  of  water,  6  onions,  3  heads  of  celery,  some  pepper  and  salt ; 
more  than  1-4  pound  of  butter,  some  pieces  of  bread,  for  4  or  5 
hours ;  when  boiled  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve ;  beat  up  the 
yolks  of  5  eggs  and  take  a  little  of  the  soup  and  cool  it,  and  add 
the  eggs  to  it  and  let  it  stand  in  your  tureen  until  you  are  going  to 
serve  it.  Have  ready  4  dozen  bearded  and  stewed  hot  oysters  and 
add  them  to  the  soup. 

A  FAVORITE  WHITE  SOUP. — Take  2  quarts  of  stock  made  of 
white  meat,  about  2  pounds  of  bread  cut  in  thin  slices  and  boiled  in 
sweet  milk  ;  when  soft-pound  it  with  a  silver  spoon  untill  it  is  quite 
smooth.  You  should  add  a  good  piece  of  mace  and  a  little  beaten 
white  pepper.  While  it  is  hot  add  2  or  3  ounces  of  fresh  butter, 
stir  it  till  it  is  melted  and  let  it  stand  until  you  are  going  to  use  it, 
then  pour  it  into  your  stock,  give  it  a  boil  up  and  serve  at  once. 

A  NEVER  FAILING  PICKLE  FOR  BACON,  BEEF  OR  TONGUE,  &c. — 
Add  to  4  gallons  of  water  8  pounds  of  common  salt  and  i  1-2  Ibs. 
of  brown  sugar ;  put  the  whole,  to  boil  and  keep  stirring  it  till  the 
salt  is  dissolved.  As  the  scum  rises  you  must  continue  to  skim  it  off. 
When  no  more  froth  rises  it  is  sufficiently  boiled  ;  let  it  stand  until 
perfectly  cold.  Lay  your  meat  on  a  table,  shake  a  little  salt  over 


DUCHESS  OF  SUNDERLAND  RECIPES. 

and  under  it  and  let  it  purge  till  the  next  day.  (Of  course  the  meat 
must  be  fresh  killed).  Then  wipe  it  dry  and  pack  it  in  the  vessels 
you  mean  to  keep  it  in.  Tut  a  convenient  weight  on  to  keep  the 
meat  down,  for  if  it  is  not  entirely  under  the  pickle  or  brine  your 
meat  will  certainly  spoil  and  be  lost.  If  the  above  quantity  is  not 
enough  to  cover  your  meat,  you  must  boil  what  you  want  with  the 
same  proportions  as  above  directed.  If  you  wish  to  have  your  meat 
red,  add  to  the  above  proportions  2  ounces  pounded  saltpetre.  Meat 
thus  preserved  will  be  good  for  10  weeks. 

NOTE — But  if  to  be  preserved  for  a  considerable  time  it  will  be 
necessary  to  rub  it  a  little  with  salt  once  in  2  months;  also  when 
your  pickle  begins  to  fret  (spoil),  which  you  may  know  by  seeing  a 
white  scum  rise,  boil  it  again,  take  off  the  scum,  and  while  boiling 
throw  in  2  ounces  of  sugar  and  2  pounds  of  salt.  The  pickle  thus 
managed  will  hold  good  for  12  months. 

NOTA  BENE — When  your  meat  is  to  be  hung,  wipe  it  perfectly 
dry.  It  is  better  not  to  hang  it  longer  than  a  fortnight  before  you 
use  it. 

THE  BEST  METHOD  OF  MAKING  RISSOLE. — Mrs.  Flinn. — Take 
chicken,  turkey,  or  any  other  white  meats,  mince  it  fine,  then  make 
a  little  thick  sauce  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  flour,  a  little  gravy ; 
put  the  mince  into  it  and  stew  it  a  little,  add  a  little  mace,  nutmeg, 
salt  and  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper.  When  stewed  put  it  on  a  plate 
until  nearly  cold,  then  make  the  rissoles  in  round  balls,  let  them 
stand  until  they  get  firm,  then  roll  them  in  the  beaten-up  yolks  of 
eggs  and  crumbs  of  bread,  repeating  the  same  twice  or  three  times 
until  the  rissole  is  looking  firm  and  of  the  right  size;  then  have  ready 
some  boiling  lard,  pop  them  into  it,  only  2  or  3  at  a  time,  till  of  a 
light  nice  brown,  then  put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Serve  them 
with  fried  parsley  on  a  napkin. 

To  CURE  HAMS— From  Wittege,  cook  to  George  IV. — To  a 
ham  of  1 8  or  20  pounds,  take  i  pound  of  bay  salt,  2  ounces  of 
saltpetre,  i  ounce  of  black  pepper ;  beat  all  fine  and  mix  them 
together,  rub  the  hams  well  with  it,  let  them  remain  in  this  pickle 
for  4  days,  turning  and  rubbing  them  every  day,  then  put  upon 
them  i  1-2  pounds  of  treacle,  in  which  let  them  remain  i  month, 
turning  and  basting  them  every  day ;  then  take  these  out  and  put 
into  cold  water  for  24  hours.  They  are  then  fit  to  be  hung  up. 

NOTE — These  hams  do  not  require  to  be  soaked  previous  to  use ; 
only  washed.  A  Westphalian  recipe. 

To  MAKE  A  PLUM  CAKE,  THE  VERY  BEST  METHOD. — One  pound 
of  butter^  i  of  sugar,  i  1-4  pound  of  flour,  i  1-2  of  currants,  1-2 
pound  altogether  of  preserved  orange  peel,  citron  and  almonds,  8 
eggs,  a  little  ginger,  allspice,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  i  wineglass  of 


DUCHESS  OF  SUNDERLAND  RECIPES.  379 

brandy,  t  of  white  wine.  You  will  make  the  cakes  as  follows:  First 
have  all  your  ingredients  ready,  your  flour  and  sugar  finely  sifted 
and  dredged,  your  currants  well  washed  and  dredged,  your  mould 
papered,  then  take  a  pan,  crock  or  flat  pudding  dishjand  put  your  but- 
ter in  it;  if  in  winter,  put  it  on  the  hot  plate  to  get  a  little  warm, 
then  with  your  hands  quite  clean  beat  it  to  a  cream,  then  add  your 
sugar,  and  beat  it  on  until  it  becomes  very  white  and  light,  which  it 
will  be,  if  beaten  half  or  one  hour,  then  add  4  eggs  and  beat  on 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer,  then  add  the  other  4,  and  by  degrees 
put  in  the  brandy  and  white  wine,  then  beat  in  your  flour,  and  when 
well  mixed  put  in  your  fruit  and  your  other  ingredients,  and  when 
well  mixed  put  in  your  mould.  Your  oven  must  not  be  too  hot. 
Bake  i  1-2  hours. 

FROSTING  FOR  THE  PLUM  CAKE. — Put  to  the  whites  of  3  eggs  as 
much  very  fine  sugar  sifted  as  will  make  it  like  a  stiff  paste,  then 
with  a  wooden  spoon  beat  and  work  it  in  your  crock  until  you 
see  it  is  becoming  more  a  liquid,  then  add  by  degrees  a  little  more 
white  ©f  an  egg  and  lemon  juice,  and  beat  it  until  it  becomes  quite 
light,  which  it  will  in  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour:  then  spread  it 
on  your  cake  with  a  knife,  first  having  your  cake  a  little  warm  from 
having  it  before  the  fire.  It  is  not  necessary  that  you  should  ice 
your  cake  the  same  day  you  make  it ;  you  need  not  put  it  in  the  oven 
when  finished,  but  set  it  at  a  distance  from  the  fire  and  it  will  get 
sufficiently  dry. 

To  MAKE  EXCELLENT  SPONGE  OR  SAVOY  CAKE. — One  pound  of 
sugar,  i  Ib.  of  flour  and  14  eggs;  or  i  Ib.  of  sugar,  3  1-4  Ib.  of  sifted 
flour  and  12  eggs.  Take  a  pan  crock,  and  put  in  your  eggs  and 
sugar  together,  and  with  a  wire  whisk,  beat  them  well  for  1-4  of  an 
hour,  then  have  ready  your  preserving  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  put 
your  pan  crock  standing  in  it,  and  continue  to  beat  it  well,  until  it 
becomes  rather  more  than  blood  warm  then  take  it  out  of  the  warm 
water,  and  beat  until  cold ;  or,  if  in  a  hurry,  put  your  crock  into  cold 
water,  continuing  to  beat  on  until  quite  cold ;  have  ready  your 
shapes,  buttered  and  sugared,  and  then  add  your  flour  gently  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  Bake  i  hour  in  a  rather  quick  oven.  NOTE. — This 
same  material,  by  adding  a  little  more  lemon  peel  to  it,  will  make 
Naple  biscuit. 

To  MAKE  AN  EXCELLENT  SPONGE  CAKE. — Fifteen  eggs,  1 2  oz.  of 
powdered  sugar,  the  juice  of  1-2  a  lemon,  a  little  of  the  rind,  12  oz. 
of  flour,  to  be  prepared  as  follows:  First  weigh  your  sugar  and  flour, 
have  ready  your  pan  crock,  put  in  both  your  yolks  and  whites  of 
eggs ;  beat  with  a  whisk  5  minutes,  then  put  in  your  sugar  and  beat 
both  well  for  15  minutes,  then  set  your  crock  in  boiling  water,  con- 
tinuing to  beat  it  well  until  the  batter  becomes  luke  warm,  or  about 


380  DUCTIKSS  OF  SUXDERLAND  RECIPES. 

1-2  an  hour,  then  take  it  out  of  the  warm  water  and  beat  it  till  quite 
cold;  or,  you  may  set  the  crock  in  cold  water  for  10  minutes,  still 
continuing  to  beat  it,  until  cold,  then  shake  in  your  flour,  lightly  stir- 
ring it  with  a  spoon,  then  put  it  in  your  shapes,  which  should  be 
greased  with  clarified  butter;  45  minutes  is  sufficient  to  beat  your 
batter,  45  minutes  to  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven.  I  find  it  better  to 
bake  this  cake  for  a  full  hour.  The  above  quantity  will  make  three 
shapes. 

CAKE,  SPONGE. — A  NICE  WAY  TO  SERVE  IT. — Fill  a  tall  mould  with 
the  batter  for  sponge  cake,  and  bake  ;  when  you  wish  to  send  it  to 
the  table,  cut  out  some  of  the  inside,  and  pour  a  quantity  of  white 
wine  into  it,  then  fill  up  the  cake  with  the  cream,  and  also  put  cream 
at  the  corner  of  each  plate  of  each  guest,  when  served. 

DUTCH  CAKE. — Two  Ibs.  of  flour,  i  Ib.  of  currants,  washed,  dried, 
and  picked,  8  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  brewers  yeast,  i  oz.  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  4  oz.  of  butter,  with  one  pint  of  milk  ;  let  it  stand  i 
hour.  Bake  i  hour  in  a  shape. 

HAM  CAKES. — Cut  the  remains  of  a  cold  ham  into  small  pieces, 
fat  and  lean,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  season  it  with  a  little  cayenne 
pepper;  add  about  1-2  a  pound  of  clarified  butter,  put  it  into  a 
mould  and  bake  it  for  i  hour.  Let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  dip  the 
mould  in  hot  water,  and  it  will  turn  out  nicely.  When  broken,  you 
will  have  to  put  it  into  another  mould,  smoother  than  the  first,  so  on, 
until  finished. 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKES,  THAT  WILL  KEEP  FOR  YEARS. — Have  2 
large  lemons  and  rub  the  rinds  with  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  so  that 
all  the  yellow  part  is  removed,  place  the  sugar  in  a  basin,  squeeze 
the  juice  of  the  lemon  over ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  and  beat 
all  well  up,  and  put  it  in  a  hot  place.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  cinnamon, 
or  any  other  that  may  be  liked,  when  required  for  use.  It  will  keep 
a  long  time.  Line  your  tartlet  pan  with  puff  paste,  then  mix  i  table- 
spoonful  of  the  above  mixture  with  a  teaspoon  of  rich  new  milk,  and 
place  a  little  in  each  tartlet  pan. 

RICHMOND  MAIDS  OF  HONOR. — This  receipt  originated  with  the 
maids  of  honor  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  who  had  a  palace  at  Richmond. 
Sift  half  a  pound  of  dry  curd;  mix  it  well  with  6  oz.  of  sweet,  fresh 
butter;  break  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  in  another  basin,  and  a  glass  of 
brandy;  add  to  it  6  oz.  of  powdered  lump  sugar  and  beat  well  to- 
gether one  very  mealy  baked  Irish  potato,  cold,  i  oz.  of  sweet 
almonds,  i  oz.  of  bitter  almonds,  pounded,  the  grated  rind  of  3  lem- 
ons. Mix  these  well  together,  and  add  to  the  curds  and  butter;  stir 
up  well.  Line  some  tartlet  pans  (previously  buttered)  with  some 
paste,  fill  the  pans  with  some  of  the  mixture  and  bake  quick. 

GINGER  BREAD  NUTS.— To  i  Ib.  of  the  finest  flour,  well  dredged, 


DUCHESS  OF  SUNDERLAND  RECIPES.  381 

put  1-4  pound  of  fresh  butter,  well  worked  into  the  flour,  then  add  i 
oz.  of  the  best  Jamaica  ginger,  fresh  grated  and  sifted  fine;  1-4  oz. 
of  beaten  allspice,  1-2  a  large  nutmeg,  grated,  and  its  weight  of  pow- 
dered cloves,  1-2  Ib.  of  nice  moist  sugar,  one  fresh  lemon  peel 
chopped  fine.  If  approved,  candied  oranges  and  citron  cut  small 
may  be  added,  and  a  good  pinch  of  caraway  seed  and  cinnni  on 
bark  in  fine  powder,  and  a  small  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  if  likcu. 
All  these  ingredients  are  to  be  mixed  into  a  smooth  paste,  with  one 
pound  of  good  treacle,  and  after  standing  a  little  time,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  and  with  the  hands  made  into  round  balls,  and  then  pressed 
flat  between  the  palms  of  the  hands,  then  set  on  a  pan  and  baked 
in  a  quick  oven.  NOTE. — About  six  drops  of  the  essential  oil  of 
caraway  seed  will  do  as  well  as  the  seeds. 

MARINGUES. — Beat  up  the  whites  of  six  eggs  for  20  min- 
utes, and  have  ready  1-2  Ib.  of  loaf  sugar  finely  powdered  and  sifted. 
Stir  it  into  the  eggs  with  a  spoon,  and  drop  this  mixture  from  a 
spoon  on -a  clean  board  that  has  been  covered  with  white  sifted  su- 
gar. Bake  them  in  slow  oven  for  1-2  hour,  and  then  fill  them  with 
cream,  made  as  follows:  Take  i  quart  of  cream  that  is  rich  and 
new,  and  add 'to  it  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  about  i  gill  of  white 
wine,  beat  it  with  a  whisk  for  20  minutes,  and  then  sweeten  with 
powdered  sugar  to  taste.  When  the  maringues  are  going  to  be 
served,  put  a  spoonful  of  this  cream  in  one  and  then  adjust  another 
of  the  same  size  to  it.  They  are  designed  for  the  second  course. 
The  maringues  should  be  put  in  moulds  of  uniform  shape,  before 
baking.  NOTE. — This  cream  will  do  for  filling  a  chantille  or  sponge 
cake. 

To  MAKE  SPANISH  PUFFS. — Take  half  a  pint  of  water,  add  to  it  3 
oz.  butter,  put  on  a  hot  plate  to  melt  it,  then  gradually,  3-4  Ib,  of 
flour,  working  it  in  slow  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  becomes  a  stiff 
paste,  then  add  to  it  by  degrees,  3  eggs  (still  working  with  the 
spoon)  4  oz.  sugar  and  a  little  grated  rind  of  lemon.  Then 
butter  a  paper,  and  drop  them  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg.  And  just  be- 
fore going  to  table  pop  them  into  a  boiling  pan  of  lard,  paper  and 
all,  and  when  sufficiently  boiled,  shake  them  off  the  paper  on  a  seive 
to  drain,  and  send  them  to  the  table  quite  hot.  NOTE. — You  may, 
if  you  please,  open  the  puffs  and  put  a  little  sweet  meats  into  them. 

QUEEN  DROPS. — 1-2  Ib.  flour,  1-2  Ib.  sugar,  3  oz.  butter,  30  bitter 
almonds,  30  sweet  almonds,  4  eggs.  The  butter  a  little  warmed, 
then  add  the  sugar,  the  eggs  beaten  well  and  separately,  and  the 
almonds  blanched  and  pounded  fine ;  last,  add  the  flour.  One  tea- 
spoonful  dropped  on  paper  on  a  tin  pan  and  baked. 

To  MAKE  PINE  SYRUP  FOR  TEAS. — Pare  the  rind  off  very  thin  the 
thickness  of  a  crown  piece,  have  some  lump  sugar  pounded  and 


382  DUCHESS  OF  SUNDERLAND  RECIPES. 

sifted  through  a  hair  sieve  ;  then  lay  a  row  of  sugar  at  the  bottom  of 
an  earthen  pan,  then  a  layer  of  slices  alternately  till  all  the  pineapple 
is  in;  let  them  stand  for  2  weeks  till  all  the  sugar  is  melted,  then  put 
the  whole  hi  a  preserving  pan,  let  them  simmer,  but  not  boil ;  do 
this  three  days  running,  then  take  the  slices  up  and  put  them  on  a 
sieve  to  dry,  then  boil  the  syrup  and  skim  it ;  when  cold  bottle  it, 
and  keep  the  slices  for  dessert. 

APPLE  JELLY. — Take  60  or  more  of  white  codlings  or  any  other 
white  apples,  take  out  the  sniffs  and  stalks,  cut  them  in  quarters 
without  peeling  them,  put  them  on  to  stew  on  a  slow  fire,  being  par- 
ticular to  stir  them  frequently ;  when  they  are  reduced  to  a  thick 
pulp  put  into  a  jelly  bag  and  let  them  drain  off  till  next  day;  then  to 
every  pint  of  the  liquor,  which  ought  to  be  thick  and  rich,  put  i  Ib. 
of  lump  sugar,  and  to  each  pint  put  the  juice  of  i  lemon.  Do  not 
add  the  lemon  juice  till  the  jelly  has  been  boiled  and  well  skimmed. 
The  lemon  juice  will  then  clear  it.  After  adding  the  lemon  juice  give 
it  one  boil  up,  and  taking  it  off  the  fire  let  it  stand  for  10  minutes 
without  touching  it,  then  skim  it  again  and  put  into  small  oval  pots 
for  use.  The  jelly  should  be  quite  clear  and  not  highly  colored, 
which  depends  on  not  boiling  too  long. 

THE  BEST  METHOD  OF  MAKING  APPLE  JELLY. — Take  i  dozen  of 
sound  baking  apples,  core  them  and  cut  them  in  pieces  into  a  clean 
sauce  pan  without  removing  the  peeling,  add  to  them  i  noggin  (a 
mug)  of  water,  cover  them  close  on  the  hot  hearth  untill  they  are 
stewed  to  a  mash,  then  strain  them  through  a  sieve.  The  above  is 
the  syrup  of  which  your  jelly  is  to  be  made.  Take  3  dozen  of  the 
best  and  most  juicy  baking  apples,  core  and  peel  them,  put  them 
down  in  a  nice,  clean  sauce  pan,  pour  the  above  syrup  over  them, 
cover  them  and  let  them  stew  until  they  become  quite  a  mash, 
then  strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  when  cold  add  to  every 
pint  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  a  good  pound  of  the  very  best 
loaf  sugar ;  boil  it  till  it  becomes  clear  and  jellied,  which  it  will 
in  20  minutes  from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil. 

THE  VERY  BEST  METHOD  OF  PRESERVING  ORANGES  WHOLE. — Take 

6  large  Saville  oranges,  grate  the  rinds  lightly,  cut  a  round  piece 
about  the  size  of  a  shilling  off  the  stem  end,  take  out  all  the  pulp 
and  put  the  oranges  into  cold  spring  water  for  24  hours,  and 
put  the  gratings  to  steep  in  a  quart  of  cold  water.  The  next  day 
make  the  syrup  as  follows  :  Put  a  pint  of  water  to  the  grating  to  a 
quart  of  the  cold  spring  water,  put  it  into  a  nice,  clean,  deep  sauce- 
pan with  3  1-2  pounds  of  the  best  loaf  sugar,  3  or  4  pieces  of  whole 
bruised  ginger ;  boil  and  skim  it ;  have  your  oranges  boiling  in  a  deep 
sauce  pan  tied  up  in  a  muslin  handkerchief,  put  down  in  cold  spring 
water.  This  you  may  do  during  the  time  you  are  making  the  syrup. 


DUCHESS  OF  SUNDERLAND  RECIPES.  383 

Let  them  boil  until  a  straw  would  nearly  run  through  them,  chang- 
ing the  water  to  extract  the  bitter,  then  take  them  up  and  put  them 
on  a  sieve  to  drain  until  quite  dry,  then  put  them  down  in  the  sauce 
pan  without  the  handkerchief;  let  them  simmer  gently,  keeping  them 
constantly  turned  for  1-2  an  hour;  let  them  remain  in  the  syrup  all 
night  (in  a  deep  basin)  ;  next  day  add  the  juice  of  3  lemons  and  a 
little  more  sugar  to  the  syrup  so  as  to  make  it  the  thickness  of  honey. 
Give  the  oranges  a  little  simmer  in  it  again,  let  them  remain  in  the 
syrup  while  you  prepare  the  pulps  for  filling  them,  which  is  as  fol- 
lows :  Take  one  of  the  oranges  already  prepared,  chop  it  as  fine  as 
possible,  take  pulp  free  from  seed  and  core ;  add  to  it  more  than  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  first  dipping  it  in  cold  water,  and  put  it  down 
to  boil  with  the  chopped  orange,  and  when  sufficiently  boiled  fill 
the  oranges.  When  cold  put  on  the  tops  or  pieces  cut  out  tied 
down  with  a  bit  of  thread,  put  into  a  deep  jar,  cover  them  with  the 
syrup,  and  tie  the  mouths  of  the  jars  over  with  paper  very  closely. 
The  sauce  pan  should  not  be  covered  at  all  during  the  whole  time 
of  preserving  the  oranges. 

To  PRESERVE  PINE  APPLES  WHOLE. — Put  them  in  a  sauce  pan 
with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  them,  and  let  it  just  come  to  a  boil, 
then  take  them  out  and  put  them  in  the  jar  they  are  to  be  kept  in. 
To  every  good  sized  pine  apple  put  near  i  Ib.  of  sugar,  (double  re- 
fined) into  the  water  in  the  sauce  pan  ;  let  it  boil  1-2  hour,  skim- 
ming it  very  clear,  then  prick  the  pines  all  over  with  a  fork,  that  the 
syrup  may  penetrate,  which  must  be  poured  upon  it  in  the  jar.  Boil 
the  syrup  every  other  day  for  3  or  4  days,  adding  sugar  each  time, 
till  the  syrup  becomes  thick  and  strong,  A  middle  sized  pine  takes 
up  i  1-2  Ibs.  of  sugar.  You  must  use  some  weight  to  keep  the  pines 
under  the  syrup.  Sliced  pine  apples  are  done  in  the  same  way. 

To  PRESERVE  MOGUL  PLUMS. — Take  15  Ibs.  of  mogul  plums,  good 
and  ripe,  put  them  in  boiling  water,  so  that  the  skin  may  come  off 
without  breaking  the  plums.  Have  ready  7  Ibs.  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  according  as  you  peel  the  plums,  sprinkle  the  sugar  over  them, 
then  leave  them  in  it  for  1 2  hours  (or  over  night);  then  pour  off  the 
syrup  on  8  Ibs.  of  sugar  in  your  preserving  pan,  and  boil  it ;  when 
boiling,  put  in  your  plums,  and  take  them  out  again  as  quick  as  pos- 
%ible,  put  them  in  a  basin  and  pour  the  syrup  hot  over  them.  Let 
them  stand  24  hours,  then  pour  off  the  syrup  as  before  and  boil  it ; 
put  in  the  plums  as  before.  This  is  done  3  different  days;  the  last 
day  pot  them.  Boil  the  syrup,  as  soon  as  boiled,  pour  over  them 
and  cover  closely. 

To  GREEN  MELONS  OR  VEGETABLES  FOR  PRESERVING.— First  scrape 
the  outside  of  the  melon  with  a  bit  of  glass,  so  as  to  remove  all  the 
thin  white  skin,  then  take  out  the  inside.  Then  have  ready  a  thin 


384  DUCHESS  OF  SUNDERLAND  RECIPES. 

syrup,  put  your  melon  into  it,  and  when  coming  to  the  boiling  point, 
take  it  off  and  let  it  stand  for  2  days,  and  continue  to  repeat  until 
the  melon  becomes  quite  green,  then  make  a  syrup  with  i  Ib.  of  loaf 
sugar,  i  whole  ginger  and  i  pint  of  water ;  then  put  the  melon  into 
it  and  let  it  come  near  boiling.  If  sufficiently  tender,  it  is  .finished. 

CURRANT  BRANDY. — To  an  even  gallon  of  currant  juice,  add  1-2  gal. 
of  pure  spirits,  and  4  pounds  of  sugar,  tie  or  paste  a  cloth  over  the 
bung  or  car-boy.  Let  it  remain  for  3  months,  then  strain  through  a 
fine  linen  bag  ;  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  All  fruit  brandies  are  made 
in  the  same  way.  French  brandy  can.be  used  in  the  place  of  spirits 
if  preferred. 

To  MAKE  CHERRY  BRANDY. — Press  the  juice*from  10  Ibs.  of  very 
fine  marillo  cherries  by  breaking  them  in  a  pan  ;  first  have  the  stalks 
picked  off.  Press  them  through  a  sieve,  pound  the  stones  and  mix 
them  with  the  pulp,  to  which  add  2  quarts  of  the  best  brandy.  Let 
it  remain  for  3  or  4  days  ;  stir  it  often.  Strain  off  and  add  4  quarts 
more  brandy,  5  Ibs.  of  pounded  lump  sugar,  1-4  Ib.  bitter  almonds, 
and  put  all  together  in  a  stone  jar.  Shake  it  often  and  let  it  stand 
10  days,  then  take  it  and  add  more  sugar,  fruit,  almonds,  or  brandy, 
as  you  think  proper,  and  after  it  has  remained  ten  days  longer  in  the 
jar,  strain  it  off  and  filter  through  blotting  paper  in  a  flannel  bag. 
tjut  it  in  pint  botiles,  which  must  be  well  waxed  and  sealed.  In  six 
weeks  it  will  be  fit  to  drink.  It  improves  by  keeping. 

HOH  GOH. — One  ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  blanched  and  sliced, 
steeped  in  i  quart  of  pure  spirits,  12  days;  i  Ib.  of  loaf  sugar,  clari- 
fied in  12  pint  of  spring  water.  When  perfectly  cold,  mix  and 
pass  through  a  parcel  of  brown  paper,  cut  or  pulled  into  shreds,  in  a 
flannel  bag ;  then  bottle  for  use.  It  improves  by  long  keeping. 

GREEN  PICKLES. — Sprinkle  your  gherkins,  or  cucumbers,  etc.,  etc. 
with  a  plenty  of  salt,  and  leave  them  in  that  and  the  liquid  they  form, 
tor  8  days,  then  take  them  out  and  leave  them  24  hours  in  a  vessel 
of  spring  water,  changing  the  water.  Then  take  them  out  and  drain 
them,  and  put  them  into  a  basin  of  spring  water,  with  a  piece  of 
alum,  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg,  pounded  and  dissolved  in  the  water 
before  adding  the  fruit,  and  let  the  whole  stand  for  12  hours.  Then 
take  about  a  quart  of  vinegar  (pure  fruit),  in  a  brass,  or  bell-metal, 
or  porcelain  lined  kettle,  and  put  in  the  gherkins,  etc.  Set  the  ves- 
sel on  the  fire  till  the  vinegar  becomes  boiling  hot,  then  take  it  off, 
and  stir  the  pickles  with  a  wooden  spoon,  till  they  all  become  green, 
then  throw  the  pickles  into  very  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,  which 
binds  the  color  and  detaches  the  greened  vinegar  from  them.  Then 
put  them  in  wide  mouthed  bottles,  and  pour  in  your  prepared  or 
spiced  vinegar  for  pickles.  NOTE. — The  same  greening  vinegar  will 
green  over  and  over  again  for  you  during  the  whole  season,  by  scald- 
ing as  before,  and  should  be  kept  in  closely  corked  bottles. 


FOREIGN  DISHES.  385 

N.  B. — There  is  is  no  pernicious  effect  from  greening  in  this  man- 
ner, and  during  the  process  the  pickles  should  be  covered  over  with 
grape  or  other  leaves. 

PICKLED  CAPSICUMS,  OR  CAYENNE,  OR  OTHER  PEPPER^. — The 
fruit  should  be  gathered  before  it  comes  to  its  full  size.  Slit  down 
the  side  to  take  out  the  seeds,  aad  then  soaked  in  salt  and  water  for 
3  days.  After  being  well  drained,  cover  the  fruit  with  vinegar,  and 
it  is  fit  for  use.  N.  B. — No  spice  need  be  added. 

FOREIGN  DISHES. 

CREOLE   DISHES. 

STEWED  BANANAS. — First  peel  the  fruit,  then  put  it  in  a  stew  pan; 
add  a  little  water  and  as  much  sugar  as  will  make  a  good  preserve. 
Excellent  eaten  with  roast  beef. — (Mrs.  McCoard,  N.  O.) 

FRENCH  EGGS. — Boil  the  eggs  till  hard,  throw  into  cold  water  in 
order  to  slip  the  shells  easily,  roll  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  fry  a 
nice  brown.  Make  a  nice  gravy  of  butter,  crumbs,  and  cream  and 
pepper ;  pour  over  them.  Serve  hot. 

PICKLED  EEGS. — Take  a  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs;  when  lifted  from 
the  boiling  water  into  cold  water,  slip  off  the  shells,  stick  cloves  in 
them,  and  drop  into  spiced  cold  vinegar.  Very  nice. 

POACHED  EGGS.  (Mrs.  D.) — Set  on  the  fire  a  frying  pan  of  salted 
water,  in  which  are  placed  as  many  muffin  rings  as  it  will  con- 
veniently hold ;  then  break  each  egg  separately  in  a  cup  and  pour 
it  then  into  the  rings,  boil  from  two  to  three  minutes,  take  off  the 
pan,  remove  the  rings,  then  take  up  the  eggs  each  on  a  sliced  or 
perforated  spoon,  then  serve  on  small  slices  of  buttered  toast,  and 
while  hot  place  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each  egg.  Sprinkle  pep- 
per slightly.  Embellish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  (double).  Serve  hot. 

STUFFED  EGGS. — Mrs.  McCoard,  N.  O. — Boil  till  very  hard  six 
or  eight  eggs ;  cut  them  in  half;  take  out  the  yellow  and  pound  it 
up  with  bread  crumbs,  a  little  minced  onions  and  parsley,  fry  this 
mince  meat  in  butter,  then  fill  the  whites  of  the  eggs;  set  in  the  stove 
or  oven  and  bake  a  moment. 

STEWED  EGGS. — Mrs.  Willoughby,  Mobile,  Ala. — Boil  the  re- 
quired number  of  eggs,  peel  and  quarter  them,  put  into  a  dish,  make 
a  brown  gravy  seasoned  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt  and  pour  it  over 
the  eggs.  Serve  hot. 

STEWED  OKRA.  (Mrs.  McCoard,  N.  O.)— First  soak  the  dried 
or  green  okra,  put  it  into  a  stew  pan  with  onions,  cut  up  small  pep- 
per, salt  to  taste,  very  little  water,  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet 
lard.  Brown  well  a  veal  steak  and  add  to  the  ochre,  stew  well  to- 
gether. Serve  hot,  A  nice  dish. 


FOREIGN  DISHBS. 

GUMBO  FILIE,  FOR  6  OR  8  PERSONS,  (which  Mrs.  Edmund  Ran- 
dolph's colored  mammy  showed  her  how  to  make). — One  large 
chicken  cut  up  and  disjointed,  sprinkle  over  with  salt  and  pepper; 
have  ready  a  frying  pan  with  lard,  i  large  onion,  i  head  of  garlic, 
both  cut  up;  when  the  lard  is  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  chicken  with  a 
slice  of  good  ham,  fry  till  nicely  browned.  Have  a  gallon  of  water 
boiling.  (If  you  have  a  quart  of  clear  stock  it  is  better).  Put  into 
the  water  or  stock  the  chicken,  adding  1-2  can  of  tomatoes  or  3  large 
ones  (with  the  skins  taken  off),  1-2  head  of  celery.  Add  also  (tied 
up  in  thin  muslin,  spruce,  sweet  laurel  leaves,  parsley,  cloves,  chives, 
a  large  red  pepper).  Let  these  boil  with  the  chicken,  boil  4  hours, 
(if  you  have  stock,  only  3  hours).  A  few  moments  before  you  take 
these  ingredients  off,  add  your  oysters,  shrimps  or  crabs,  and  then 
sprinkle  in  your  filie  (buds)  stirring  all  the  time,  until  as  thick  as  you 
desire.  Two  tablespoonfuls  I  find  enough.  Add  salt  and  black 
pepper  to  taste.  N.  B. — If  crabs  or  shrimps  are  used  in  making  the 
gumbo,  then  the  meat  should  be  veal.  NOTE. — File  is  the  young 
leaves  of  the  sassafras  (ground  very  fine). 

How  TO  COOK  THE  RICE  FOR  GUMBO. — Take  a  saucepan,  put  in 
i  Ib.  of  rice,  pour  some  boiling  water  over  the  rice  so  that  it  will  be 
well  covered,  put  in  a  little  salt ;  when  the  water  has  boiled  off  put 
more  water  in,  by  the  time  the  water  is  boiled  off  again,  your  rice  is 
done.  The  rice  should  be  eaten  with  the  gumbo. 

OKRA  GUMBO. — Is  made  in  the  same  way,  only  the  okra  is  cut  up 
and  cooked  over  an  hour.  NOTE. — Either  okra  or  file  gumbo  should 
be  served  with  a  large  dish  of  rice,  boiled  very  dry. — (Mrs.  Ran- 
dolph). 

CREOLE  GUMBO. — Have  a  large  pot  on  the  fire,  put  in  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lard.  When  hot,  stir  in  a  little  flour,  till  brown,  then 
add  a  good  deal  of  ham,  beef  and  onions,  cut  fine,  crabs,  shrimps  or 
oysters.  When  all  are  well  fried,  pour  on  enough  boiling  water  for 
the  quantity  of  soup  required,  allowing  for  boiling  down,  as  no  more 
should  be  added  afterwards.  About  five  minutes  before  stir  in  the 
file  (pounded  sassafras)  until  the  soup  is  sufficiently  thick ;  testers 
and  shrimps  should  not  be  put  in  until  some  fifteen  minutes  before 
serving ;  crabs  with  the  beef,  &c.  Fry  beef,  then  sliced  okra  when 
nicely  browned,  (no  flour)  pour  on  water;  made  like  the  above. 

NEW  ORLEANS  GUMBO. — Into  your  soup  pan  put  11-2  spoonfuls 
of  fresh  sweet  lard,  3  spoonfuls  of  flour,  which  stir  into  the  lard  until 
it  is  brown ;  take  a  large  fat  chicken  and  cut  it  up  in  small  pieces 
and  put  it  in  the  pan  with  the  lard  and  flour,  and  cover  it  up  to  stew. 
Then  chop  i  Ib.  of  lean  beef  very  fine,  i  large  slice  of  sweet  ham,  2 
large  onions,  sliced  fine,  i  pod  of  red  pepper,  teaspoonful  each  of 
chopped  parsley,  marjoram,  and  thyme,  and  spoonful  of  salt;  add 


FOREIGN  DISHES.  387 

them  to  the  other  ingredients,  with  i  gallon  of  boiling  water,  and 
boil  briskly  for  2  hours.  When  done  take  off  the  pan  and  stir  in 
one  and  a  fourth  teaspoonfuls  of  soda.  Send  in  a  covered  dish  to 
the  table;  have  rice  nicely  boiled;  then  into  each  plate  put  one 
spoonful  of  rice,  as  you  pour  the  gumbo  in,  to  serve  it.  Eat  light 
bread  or  toast  with  it ;  veal,  venison  or  oysters  may  be  used  in  the 
place  of  chicken. 

A  TREAT — FRIED  BANANAS. — Select  a  dozen  fully  ripe,  the  long, 
slender  variety ;  after  removing  the  skins  cut  lengthwise,  and  again 
cut  in  two  ;  fry  in  the  best  of  butter  or  ham  fat,  adding  a  little  salt. 
Serve  up  hot  for  breakfast,  and  while  eating  thank  the  undersigned 
for  this  recipe.  Bananas  cut  up  with  cream  and  sagar  are  a  palata- 
ble dish  for  the  tea-table. — Mrs.  L.  F.  Williamson,  San  Francisco, 
Cal. 

BANANAS  AS  A  DESSERT. — Remove  the  skins,  cut  the  pulp  into 
round,  thin  wafers,  put  them  on  a  dish,  put  on  a  good  deal  of  sugar, 
and  add  milk.  f,et  stand  2  hours,  then  eat  them  as  you  would  milk 
and  other  fruit. 

To  ROAST  BANANAS. — Roast  or  bake  them  with  the  skins  on  (in  a 
deep  oven)  till  of  a  deep  brown  and  the  juice  comes  through  the 
skin,  then  serve  hot  and  eat  with  a  spoon. 

BANANA  SWEET  PICKLES. — Make  a  pickle  liquor  as  for  any  sweet 
pickles,  peel  the  banana  and  drop  them  in  it.  Excellent. 

PINE  APPLE  SWEET  PICKLES. — Wash  the  fruit,  peel  and  cut  it  into 
thin  slices  and  drop  them  into  a  sweet  pickle  liquor. 

GUAVA  JELLY. — Miss  Armstrong. — Cut  off  both  ends  of  the  fruit, 
then  put  them  into  water  and  cook  till  soft  then  strain  through  a  very 
fine  sieve. 

A  DELICIOUS  BRAZILIAN  DISH.— Milk  curds,  sugar  and  the  pulp  of 
the  plum  to  taste. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE. — (Sandwich  Island  dishes.) — Miss  Pogue. — Take 
3  pineapples,  and  after  skinning  4hem  very  carefully,  remove  the 
eyes  ;  grate  on  a  very  coarse  grater  until  they  are  a  mass  of  pulp  ; 
to  thi?  pulp  add  i  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  1-2  cup  of  sugar  to 
each  of  fruit. 

NOTE — This  amount  will  fill  2  pies;  bake  without  an  upper-crust. 
This  is  better  cold. 

PINEAPPLE  SWEET  PICKLE. — After  skinning  and  carefully  remov- 
ing the  eyes  of  the  pine,  cut  up  into  round  slices  with  a  bit  of  the 
core  in  each ;  to  10  pounds  of  fruit  add  3  of  sugar  and  a  quart 
of  vinegar  and  spices ;  boil  together  very  slowly  an  hour  at  least. 
The  next  day  pour  off  the  juice  and  boil  again  ;  turn  over  the 
pineapple  boiling  hot.  It  is  ready  for  use  at  once,  but  keeps 
well, 


388  FOREIGN  DISHES. 

STEWED  BANANAS. — The  bananas  sold  in  American  markets  are 
of  the  Chinese  variety,  and  are  nice  stewed  or  fried.  To  stew 
them  remove  the  skin,  pack  in  rather  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  lemon  juice — i  lemon  for  7  bananas ;  set  in  a  slow 
oven  until  they  turn  pink  and  are  quite  tender,  without  breaking. 
These  are  nice  for  lunch  or  tea. 

PLANTAIN  AND  BANANAS  are  nice  baked  with  their  skins  on,  and 
just  before  serving  cut  open  lengthwise  and  spread  with  butter ;  eat 
hot  for  breakfast. 

MUSLIN  CAKE, — Beat  well  and  separately  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  10  eggs,  i  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar  flavored  with  lemon  ; 
stir  in  1-2  pound  of  potato  flour  or  potato  farina  ;  mix  well ;  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

CASSAVER  BREAD  (native  West  Indian.) — Mrs.  K. — Take  the 
grated  Yuca  root,  out  of  which  all  the  juice  has  been  thoroughly 
drained,  add  salt,  then  roll  out  in  thin,  flat,  circular,  wafer  like  cakes, 
very  large  ;  bake  on  a  sheet-iron  or  griddle  out  of  doors  ;  when  one 
side  is  brown,  turn  it  over  and  bake  the  other.  The  bread  should 
be  1-8  of  an  inch  thick ;  soak  in  your  coffee  and  eat  it.  Use  no 
grease  in  any  way  about  it.  It  is  excellent. 

TROPICAL  FRUITS  should  be  eaten  in  the  fore  part  of  the  day, 
otherwise  they  bring  on  fevers. 

LOCALITIES  IN  THE  TROPICS. — Avoid  all  localities  where  fresh  and 
salt  water  mingle.  They  produce  malaria,  and  when  the  sun  is  hot 
keep  in  the  shade,  as  you  may  have  sun-stroke  or  fever. 

MORNING  DRINK  IN  THE  TROPICS. — Drink  a  cup  of  very  strong 
Java  coffee,  eat  with  it  a  roasted  green  banana  or  plantain  roasted 
in  a  plantain  leaf  in  the  ashes. 

BOHOOKA  VINE. — (St.  Domingo  recipe.) — Mrs.  Kellogg. — Scrape 
the  bark  off  this  vine  and  make  suds  with  it  and  water,  and  wash 
your  sores  with  it,  arising  from  the  process  of  acclimatizing,  and 
this  will  cure  the  sores  and  prevent  any  attack  of  yellow  fever. 

NOTE^ — These  sores  'seem  to  be  an  effort  of  nature  to  throw  off 
malaria.  Those  who  do  not  have  them  take  the  fever. 

TAMARINDS. — (St.  Domingo  recipe.) —Mrs.  K. — Shell  the  beans 
and  put  them  up  in  jars  with  honey  or  with  sugar.  Bottle.  A  few 
of  the  beans  put  in  a  little  water  are  good  for  fevers  and  act  on  the 
bowels. 

CARROTS. — W,  I.  Mrs.  Robach. — Cut  up  your  tender  chickens, 
chop  some  cranberries,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder  and  stew 
all  together  with  butter  and  a  little  water. 

WATERMELON. — W.  I. — Mrs.  Robach. — Take  the  seed  from  the 
melon,  then  slice  and  boil  in  salt  and  water  with  sweet  potatoes  and 
okra,  sliced  parsnips ;  then  dish  and  pour  salad  oil  over  while  very 
hot,  and  serve  at  once. 


FOREIGN  DISHES.  389 

RICE  AND  RED  BEANS. — Miss  Chapman,  West  Indies. — They  are 
boiled  together  with  a  cover  on  the  vessel  till  soft  and  the  water 
expelled,  then  take  off  and  allowed  to  remain  until  the  steam  ceases 
to  come  off,  then  poured  into  a  deep  dish  and  seasoned  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  some  butter  or  olive  oil ;  stirred  up  and  then  served 
hot.  If  liked,  cayenne  pepper  (a  little)  and  the  gravy  of  sweet  ba- 
con may  be  used.  Serve  hot. 

NOTE — This  is  a  very  popular  dish  among  the  West  Indies. 

TOMOLES,  Mexican. — Mrs.  Stepenson. — Cut  the  green  corn  off 
the  cob  and  grind  it  to  a  pulp,  put  fruit  and  meat  of  any  kind  well 
minced,  whole  raisins ;  season  highly  with  green  or  red  pepper — 
green  the  best,  chopped — then  put  it  in  green  shucks  or  husks,  one 
piece  of  the  tomole  in  each,  tie  it  up  and  boil  it ;  serve  hot  or 
in  a  dishes.  Tomatoes  may  be  used  with  the  fruit.  The  green  corn 
shock  gives  it  the  delicious  flavor.  A  very  small  portion  of  salt  to 
taste  should  be  added  before  cooking. 

BEANS. — Boil  in  clear  salt  water  the  beans  till  soft,  drain  through 
a  strainer,  then  pour  into  another  pot  of  boiling  fat,  stir,  and  then 
serve  them  hot. 

BEANS  (Spanish.) — Boil  your  beans  till  soft  with  a  little  port  wine  ; 
«eason  with  olive  oil. 

CHILIAN  RECIPES. 

CHILI  CHEESE. — Chop  the  chilies  and  tomatoes  very  fine,  salt  to 
taste  ;  put  a  little  lard  into  a  pan  and  make  very  hot,  add  chopped 
onions  and  fry  them,  then  add  the  chilies,  put  in  some  fresh  or  stale 
cheese  cut  or  broken  in  small  pieces  and  fry  till  it  just  becomes  soft, 
but  not  melted.  Serve  at  once. 

To  COOK  CHICKEN,  THE  LEG  OF  PORK,  MUTTON,  OR  HAM. — Take 
the  leg  of  pork,  ham,  mutton,  or  a  whole  chicken,  then  with  an  in- 
strument make  some  holes  in  it;  in  every  hole  put  in  some  ham, 
onions,  in  slices,  black  pepper,  and  some  clabber  ;  put  in  a  pan  some 
vinegar,  water  and  lard.  Set  it  to  cook  inside  the  stove  and 
turn  over  often  to  bake  nicely;  then  add  some  more  black  pepper 
and  clabber  to  improve  the  flavor.  If  you  like,  add  some  more  pep- 
per very  fine,  some  vinegar,  black  pepper,  cinnamon.  Make  it  very 
thick,  slice  some  raw  onion,  and  pour  vinegar  over,  and  serve  the 
meat  or  fowl. 

BANANA  OR  PLANTAINS  BAKED  FOR  BREAKFAST. — Split  the  fruit 
in  two  then  place  them  in  an  oven  one  over  the  other,  as  sweet  po- 
tatoes are  baked  ;  when  done,  put  them  in  a  deep  dish,  and  between 
each  layer  put  some  butter,  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  hot. 

BANANA  FRITTERS. — Mash  with  a  spoon  3  or  4  large,  ripe  bana- 
nas to  a  perfect  pulp,  then  beat  2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately, 


390  FOREIGN  DISHES. 

and  stir  in  the  banana  pulp  to  the  eggs  ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  i  cup 
of  sweet  milk  or  more1,  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Fry  in 
boiling  lard,  or  olive,  or  sweet  cocoanut  oil.  Excellent.  Beat  well. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD  PIE. — The  grated  kernel  of  i  soft  cocoanut, 
with  the  water  or  milk,  or  ripe  cocoanut  and  milk,  yolks  and  whites 
of  2  eggs  well  beaten  separately,  sugar  to  taste,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Line 
a  deep  porcelain  baking  dish  with  a  rich  pie  crust,  and  pour  the 
whisked  batter  in.  Bake  in  rather  a  brisk  oven. 

PANAMA  STEAK  WITH  ONIONS. — Fry  in  boiling  lard,  the  steak,  turn 
it  over  when,  nearly  done,  cover  it  over  with  chopped  onions,  salt  and 
pepper.  Very  nice. 

COCOANUT  OIL. — Grate  the  desired  quantity  of  nice  fresh  cocoa- 
nuts,  wash  and  rub  the  gratings  between  the  hands  for  several  waters, 
so  as  to  get  all  the  oil  out,  pouring  each  washing  into  another  ves- 
sel, then  set  this  earthen  vessel  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  and 
simmer  slowly,  removing  the  oil  as  long  as  it  rises,  with  a  spoon. 
Then  set  the  vessel,  which  contains  the  skimmed  oil,  in  a  warm 
place  to  settle,  then  pour  off  gently  and  bottle  closely.  Excellent  for 
the  hair. 

ANOTHER  WAY. — Grate  the  cocoanut,  boil  in  a  small  quantity  of 
water,  carefully  and  slowly,  skim  off  the  oil  as  fast  as  it  rises,  then 
resimmer  it  in  another  earthen  vessel  until  all  the  water  evaporates. 
Pour  off  carefully  and  bottle  and  stop  closely,  leaving  the  settlings  be- 
hind. This  oil  will  keep  the  hair  soft  and  moist  for  3  weeks,  without 
repeating  the  application. 

GRAVEL,  OBSTINATE. — Drink  freely  of  the  water  of  the  green  cocoa- 
nut. 

JAUNDICE. — Wear  a  string  of  wild  cucumbers  around  the  neck,  af- 
ter removing  the  prickles. 

ALBONDIGAS. — Take  some  chopped  meat,  chop  a  small  onion  very 
fine,  and  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  up  an  egg,  mix  a  ta- 
blespoonful  of  flour  with  it,  a  little,  soaked  bread,  and  mix  all  to- 
gether. Rub  a  little  vinegar  on  your  hand ;  make  the  above  mix- 
ture into  balls,  take  a  stew  pan  and  put  in  a  little  lard  and  chopped 
onion,  fry  and  put  in  the  meat  balls  with  water  enough  to  cover 
them,  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Before  dishing  up  beat  up  two  eggs 
in  the  dish  with  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  balls. 

COCADA. — Grate  four  cocoa-nuts,  put  them  into  a  kettle  with  a 
little  water  and  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil,  stirring  continually,  till  you 
can  see  the  bottom  of  the  kettle. 

AJIACO. — The  night  before  you  intend  making  this  dish,  take  a 
handfull  of  dried  Chili  red  peppers ;  cut  each  one  open,  remove  the 
seeds  and  soak  the  peppers  in  water  all  night.  It  is  best  to  pour  on 
boiling  water.  Next  day  pass  as  much  of  the  pulp  of  the  peppers 


FOREIGN  DISHBS. 

as  you  can  through  a  colander,  adding  a  little  of  the  water  to  help 
it  through.  Boil  half  a  dozen  potatoes  with  their  skins  on ;  when 
done  peel  them ;  put  in  a  stew  pan  a  large  spoonful  of  fresh  lard, 
half  an  onion  chopped  fine,  and  fry ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
soaked  peppers,  two  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  cold  water  and 
squeezed  dry ;  add  the  boiled  potatoes  and  slice  in  some  fresh  cheese 
and  water  enough  to  make  a  gravy.  Stew  a  few  moments  and  put 
in  some  hard  boiled  eggs  just  before  serving. 

HUMITAS. — Take  two  dozen  ears  of  corn  (not  too  young)  and 
husk  them  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  the  husks.  Grate  the  corn 
off  the  ears  into  a  dish  and  add  an  onion  chopped  fine,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lard,  and  some  salt  and  pepper,  If  the  corn  is  very  dry 
add  a  little  cream.  Put  two  leaves  of  the  husks  together  overlap- 
ping the  stem  end  and  forming  a  sort  of  little  boat ,  put  in  as  much 
of  the  corn  mixture  as  it  will  hold,  Then  cover  with  the  sides  and 
ends  and  tie  into  a  little  package  with  a  strip  of  the  husk.  Make  as 
many  as  your  corn  will  allow  ;  put  .them  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Send  to  the  table  in  the  husks,  each  one 
opening  his  own  package. 

HUEVOS  CHIMBOS,  (dessert). — The  yolks  of  ten  eggs  beaten  very 
light  and  baked  in  a  square  cake  tin.  Make  some  syrup  of  white 
sugar  and  water,  not  too  thick.  Cut  your  cake  into  squares  in  the 
tin  it  was  baked  in  and  pour  the  syrup  over  it;  put  it  on  the  stove  to 
simmer  till  the  cake  is  well  saturated.  When  cold  put  it  all  in  a  glass 
dish  and  stick  some  blanched  split  almonds  on  the  top  to  ornament 
it. 

SNOW  CAKES. — Beat  up  the  whites  of  10  eggs,  i  1-2  cups  of  sugar, 
i  1-2  cups  ot  flour  sprinkled  in,  i  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  i 
teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon. 

PAPAS  RELLENAS.  Stuffed  Potatoes. — Boil  some  potatoes,  mash 
smooth,  put  in  salt  and  butter,  and  line  a  pudding  dish  with  them. 
Take  some  cold  roast  beet,  and  cut  fine,  add  some  chopped  onion, 
thyme,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper ;  put  in  a  pan  with  some  lard  and 
fry  it  a  little,  add  a  little  soaked  bread,  and  if  too  dry,  a  little  water 
or  gravy.  When  nicely  fried,  put  it  in  your  potatoe  dish,  and  have 
some  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices  to  put  over  it,  then  cover  all 
with  mashed  potatoes  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

BAKED  PEPPERS. — Take  green  Chili  peppers  and  take  out  the 
seeds.  Chop  some  cooked  meat,  (veal  is  best)  an  onion,  and  2  hard 
boiled  eggs  very  fine.  Mix  with  an  egg  (well  beaten)  ;  fill  the  pep- 
pers with  the  mixture,  after  seasoning  to  taste,  putting  a  piece  of 
butter  on  the  top.  Bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven  until  the  peppers  are 
tender.  If  the  meat  is  very  fat,  some  bread  crumbs  may  be  added, 
Jt  is  a  good  and  economical  way  of  using  cold  bits  of  meat, 


392  FOREIGN  DISHES. 

CHUPE  DE  CARNERO.  (Soup.) — Take  2  Ibs.  of  mutton,  such  as 
you  would  use  for  mutton  stew,  and  cut  it  in  pieces.  Put  in  a  pot  3 
red  peppers,  a  chopped  onion,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lard,  fry  the 
mutton  in  this  till  a  little  brown  ;  add  3  quarts  of  water  and  boil 
slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  add  a  small  cupful  of  rice,  3  or  4  po- 
tatoes cut  in  pieces,  and  a  tomatoe.  Cook  till  these  last  are  well 
boiled ;  season  with  salt  and  a  little  thyme,  and  serve. 

BRAZILIAN  DISHES. 

MATTE,  OR  BRAZILIAN  TEA. — The  leaves  are  taken  from  a  wild 
forest  tree,  known  as  the  Ilex  Paraquoyensis,  during  the  whole  year. 
The  leaves  and  branches  are  broken  off  and  kiln  dried  in  the  woods, 
and  afterwards  ground  or  rather  pounded  in  a  mill.  This  coarse 
powder  is  then  sent  to  market.  For  use,  a  little  of  the  powder  is 
put  into  a  bowl,  either  with  or  without  sugar,  and  some  cold  water 
poured  on  it.  Boiling  water  is  added  when  it  has  stood  a  short  time, 
and  is  ready  for  use.  It  is  drank  through  a  tube  with  a  strainer  at 
one  end.  In  the  South  American  States  the  people  say  they  cannot 
live  without  it,  and  that  it  is  meat  and  drink.  Being  fatigued,  per- 
sons feel  refreshed  at  once  by  a  cup  mixed  with  river  water.  It  is 
not  so  heating  as  tea.  It  is  used  largely. 

BRAZILIAN  MODE  OF  MAKING  COFFEE. — Into  a  flannel  sack  put 
the  dry  coffee  powder,  say  a  pint  to  two  pints  of  boiling  water,  which 
drip  into  a  vessel  to  be  placed  over  the  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
then  pour  over  the  coffee,  once  or  twice,  or  more,  according  to  the 
strength  required,  bring  it  to  a  boiling  heat  each  time.  This  method 
preserves  the  delightful  aroma  of  the  berry,  which  is  lost  in  boiling. 
Use  with  or  without  sugar  or  milk,  according  to  taste. 

THE  CINNAMON  TREE  is  A  NATIVE  of  Brazil,  as  well  as  other  por- 
tions of  South  America  and  China.  The  trees  are  raised  from  the 
seed.  A  light  and  sandy  soil  is  best  for  them.  Trees  in  6  or  7 
years  are  fit  for  peeling.  Trees  2  centuries  old  bear  abundantly  2 
harvests  a  year — May  and  June,  and  in  November.  The  bark  being 
broken  off  in  strips  40  inches  in  length  from  the  trees,  is  collected  in 
bundles  for  the  purpose  of  fermentation.  The  epidermis  is  easily 
removed;  it  is  slowly  dried  and  rolled  up  in  the  form  of  a  quill. 
There  are  three  qualities.  The  best  is  as  thin  as  paper;  the  inferior 
kinds  are  not  worth  transportation,  but  are  used  in  making  oil  of 
cinnamon. 

SPANISH  DISHES. 

SPANISH  STEW.— By  Mrs.  Major  Kellogg.— About  two  Ibs.  of  pet- 
it Sol.  (salt  pork)  or  coine  del  norte  oil.  NOTE — Meat  from  the 


FOREIGN  DISHES.  393 

north,  salt  beef,  put  in  water  and  boiled  with  sweet  potato,  (yuca 
root),  yen  tillia  (sweet  pepper)  (dolce  pica)  sweet  pumpkin,  two  of 
ripe  and  three  of  green  plantains  to  above  quantity ;  let  all  stew  till 
done,  thicken  with  flour  and  water,  and  season  to  taste  with  sugar. 
This  makes  a  wholesome  and  delightful  dish. 

SPANISH  BROWN  BEANS. — Wash  and  boil  the  beans  for  four  hours 
in  a  plenty  of  water.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter  into  a 
pan,  when  boiling  hot,  pour  off  the  liquor  of  the  beans,  leaving  a 
small  quantity,  then  put  them  into  the  pan  of  hot  grease,  with 
a  small  piece  of  red  pepper,  some  black  pepper  and  salt.  Serve 
very  hot.  NOTE. — It  is  better  when  boiling  the  beans  to  add  the 
red  or  green  peppers,  about  1-2  a  pod,  and  let  it  cook  with  them, 
A  nice  dish. 

PISTO  OMELET  (A  favorite  omelet  in  Spain.) — Mince  together  cold 
turkey  or  chicken  and  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  ham  or  tongue,  add- 
ing i  chopped  onion  or  2  and  sufficient  sweet  marjoram  and  sweet 
basil  to  season  it  well;  also  a  little  cayenne.  No  salt,  as  the  ham 
will  render  it  quite  salt  enough.  Have  ready  sufficient  well  beaten 
eggs  to  make  it  into  a  good  omelet  mixture,  stir  the  whole  very  hard 
at  the  last.  Have  ready  over  the  fire  a  wide  pan  of  boiling  lard, 
put  in  the  mixture  with  a  ladle  and  fry  it  in  flat  cakes.  Serve  up 
hot. 

SPANISH  SALAD. — A  Spanish  proverb  says  that  for  compounding 
a  good  salad  four  persons  are  required.  A  spendthrift  for  oil,  a 
miser  for  vinegar,  a  counsellor  or  a  man  of  judgment  for  salt,  and  a 
madman  for  stirring  up  the  whole,  hard  and  furiously.  Get  a  large 
salad  bowl  that  there  may  be  ample  room  for  stirring  well.  Prepare 
in  a  separate  vessel  the  lettuce  and  the  seasoning.  They  should 
not  be  put  together  till  a  few  minutes  before  the  salad  is  to  be  eaten, 
otherwise  it  will  be  tough  and  sodden  instead  of  crisp  and  fresh. 
Do  not  cut  it  with  a  knife,  but  tear  or  strip  off  the  leaves  of  the  let- 
tuce and  throw  all  the  stalk  away,  then  wash  the  leaves  through  sev- 
eral waters  and  dry  them  in  a  clean  napkin  ;  put  them  into  a  large 
bowl,  and  in  a  smaller  bowl  mix  the  seasoning,  for  which  you  must 
have  equal  quantities  of  mixed  vinegar  and  water ;  an  even  tea- 
spoonful  of  mixed  cayenne  and  salt,  4  times  as  much  sweet  oil  as 
the  mixed  vinegar  and  water.  Mix  all  the  seasoning  thoroughly, 
stirring  it  very  hard.  Have  ready  on  a  plate  some  taragon  finely 
minced  or  powdered;  just  before  the  salad  is  to  be  eaten  pour  the 
dressing  over  the  lettuce  and  strew  the  surface  with  taragon. 

NOTE — You  may  decorate  the  top  with  nasturtium  flowers ;  they 
are  nice  to  eat. 

CUCUMBERS  AND  ONIONS. — Pare  and  split  the  cucumbers,  take  out 
the  seeds,  and  cut  them  into  dice ;  a  handful  of  chopped  parsley 


394  FOREIGN  DISHES. 

and  a  dozen  or  two  of  small  onions,  butter,  pepper,  salt ;  flour  the 
vegetables,  put  into  a  stew  pan  ;  when  the  butter  is  melted  put  in 
the  cucumbers,  stew  till  the  onions  are  tender,  adding  a  spoonful  of 
good  gravy  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

TOMATO  CATSUP  (a  Balize  recipe  ) — Slice  the  tomatoes  and  put  a 
layer  into  a  jar,  sprinkle  salt  over  it,  another  layer  of  tomatoes  and 
salt,  until  the  jar  is  full.  Stir  the  contents  now  and  then  for  three 
days,  then  press  the  juice  from  the  tomatoes  and  boil  with  mace, 
pepper,  allspice,  ginger  and  cloves  ;  about  2  ounces  in  all  to  a  quart 
of  juice;  a  few  blades  of  mace,  12  cloves,  a  spoonful  of  pounded 
ginger  and  the  remainder  pepper  and  allspice.  In  3  minutes  boil  it 
again  with  fresh  spice. 

NOTE — In  tying  leather  or  bladders  over  the  mouths  of  bottles  and 
jars  it  is  best  to  wet  them. 

To  PRESERVE  TOMATOES  IN  IMITATION  OF  GUAVAS. — Take  the 
seeds  out  of  the  wet  tomatoes  and  set  them  over  a  slow  fire  in  weak 
sugar  and  water  until  they  are  green,  then  take  out  the  tomatoes, 
add  sugar  to  the  syrup,  boiling  it  down  till  it  is  very  strong  and 
of  a  good  consistency  ;  pour  it  over  the  boiling  tomatoes  and  let 
them  remain  in  it  until  cold ;  then  repeat  the  process  as  often  as 
is  necessary,  but  not  sufficiently  so  to  make  them  shrink.  Should 
they  be  preserved  ripe,  pour  the  boiling  syrup  upon  them,  repeating 
it  every  2  or  3  days  until  the  sugar  has  perfectly  penetrated  the 
fruit.  The  addition  of  lemon  juice  squeezed  upon  the  tomatoes, 
and  a  third  or  fourth  part  of  strawberry  jam  mixed  with  the  syrup, 
will  assist  in  the  resemblance  of  the  tomato  to  the  guava,  as  also  a 
glass  of  port  wine  ;  but,  as  these  would  spoil  the  color  of  green  to- 
matoes, they  must  only  be  put  to  those  that  are  ripe. 

To  PRESERVE  A  MELON. — Scrape  off  the  thin  outside  skin,  make 
a  hole  in  the  top,  take  out  the  seeds,  then  throw  the  melon  into  wa- 
ter, and  after  it  has  remained  in  it  12  hours  take  it  out  and  put  it 
into  a  preserving  pan  with  a  large  piece  of  loaf  sugar  and  as  much 
water  as  will  cover  it ;  then  cover  the  pan  closely  and  let  it  remain 
for  an  hour  on  a  very  slow  fire.  Repeat  this  process  3  times  in  3 
succeeding  days,  taking  care  not  to  allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil ;  then 
make  a  thin  syrup,  drain  the  melon  carefully  out  of  the  liquor  it  was 
in  and  put  it  into  a  syrup,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  closely  covered,  for 
1-4  hour  every  day  for  3  ensuing  days;  on  the  last  day  boil  the 
syrup  until  it  is  very  rich  with  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  adding  the  juice 
of  2  lemons. 

SPANISH  STUFFING  FOR  FOWLS  OF  ANY  KIND. — Three  or  4  beaten 
eggs,  olives  and  raisins  chopped  fine,  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  a  little 
salt.  Mix  and  stuff  the  fowl. 

PICKLE  THAT  WILL  KEEP  TWENTY  YEARS, — With  a  piece 


FOREIGN  DISHES.  39$ 

of  broken  glass  scrape  the  rinds  of  lemons,  then  without  cutting 
through  the  skins  score  them  lengthwise  in  quarters ;  lay  them  in 
an  earthen  dish,  not  allowing  them  to  touch  each  other;  cover  them 
with  salt  and  place  them  near  a  window  to  get  the  heat  of  the  sun  ; 
keep  them  covered  with  salt,  adding  more,  if  needed.  For  three 
weeks  turn  them  every  day,  then  take  them  out  of  the  salt  and  put 
them  into  a  jar  ;  then  make  a  liquor  of  the  best  fruit  vinegar,  bruised 
mustard  seeds,  ginger  and  long  peppers  ;  boil  it  and  allow  it  to  cool, 
then  stir  in  a  very  small  quantity  of  turmeric,  and  then  pour  it  over 
the  lemons.  Keep  them  closely  covered. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS. — Remove  the  peel  from  the  cucumbers, 
flour  and  fry  them  slightly,  pour  off  the  fat,  flour  the  pan,  pour  boil- 
ing water  into  it ;  then  stew  the  cucumbers  in  it  until  done  sufficient- 

iy- 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS  STEWED  FOR  THE  ROYAL  TABLE.  (Madrid 
fashion.) — Pare  and  scrape  out  the  seedy  portion  of  a  large  cucum- 
ber; then  make  a  forcemeat  of  a  little  pounded  veal,  bread  crumbs 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  catsup,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  cream  to 
make  it  to  a  proper  consistency.  Stuff  the  cucumber,  fry  it  until 
brown,  then  put  it  into  a  good  gravy  and  let  it  stew  for  3  hours  in  a 
slow  oven. 

MADEIRA  PUDDING. — This  is  a  nice  pudding,  for  which  the  Island 
of  Madeira  is  famous.  Take  a  tin  cake  mould  of  which  the  bottom 
will  come  out,  butter  it  and  lay  upon  it  pieces  of  paste,  the  size  of 
the  mould,  cover  it  with  the  preserve  of  apricots,  then  lay  another 
piece  of  paste  and  cover  this  with  red  preserves,  and  so  on  in  differ- 
ent layers  with  paste  between  them,  until  the  mould  is  filled.  Boil 
and  serve  with  brandy  sauce. 

Note. — Great  care  will  be  necessary  in  taking  it  out  of  the  mould. 
It  will  take  a  long  time  to  boil  it  perfectly. 

SAUCE  FOR  BEEFSTEAK. — Equal  parts  of  catsup,  wine  and  ale ; 
some  butter,  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Stir  it  over  the  fire  in  a  sauce  pan, 
pour  it  over  very  hot  upon  the  beefsteak. 

GREEN  ALMOND  TARTS. — Pull  the  almonds  from  the  tree  before 
the  hull  becomes  loose,  scrape  off  the  down  and  put  them  into  a  pan 
with  cold  spring  water,  then  put  them  into  a  skillet  with  more  spring 
water;  set  them  on  a  slow  fire  and  let  it  remain  till  it  simmers. 
Change  the  water  twice  and  let  them  remain  till  tender,  then  take 
them  out  and  make  a  syrup  with  double  refined  sugar  and  put  them 
into  it  and  let  them  simmer.  Do  the  same  next  day ;  put  them  into 
a  stone  jar  and  cover  them  very  close,  for  if  the  least  air  comes  to 
them,  they  will  turn  black.  The  yellower  they  are  before  taken  out 
of  the  water,  the  greener  they  will  be  after  they  are  done.  Put  them 
into  the  crust,  cover  them  with  syrup,  lay  on  the  cover,  and  bake, 
them  in  a  moderate  oven, 


396  FOREIGN  DISHES. 

BOILED  MILK  FOR  CHILDREN  IN  THE  MORNING. — Boiled  milk, 
thickened  with  oatmeal,  as  thick  as  gruel ;  a  little  salt  should  be 
added.  This  prepares  the  stomach  for  the  food  that  may  be  taken 
during  the  day,  both  by  children  and  adults. 

JELLY  CAKE. — One  cup  of  new  milk,  i  eggs,  1-4  Ib.  butter,  salt,  i 
1-2  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder.  Make  in  the  above  proportion,  and 
as  many  ply  as  you  like,  with  currant  jelly  between,  but  more  on  the 
top,  which  must  be  covered  with  powdered  white  sugar  or  frosting. 

BEEFSTEAK  PUDDING. — Chop  the  tender  beef  to  a  pulp  ;  chop  some 
beef  suet  and  a  little  raw  Irish  potato  very  fine  and  mix  with  it  but- 
ter, and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

CRUST  Foa  THE  PUDDING. — Make  a  paste  of  flour,  suet,  chopped 
fine,  salt  and  water.  Roll  out  tolerably  thin,  put  in  the  meat  and  tie 
the  pudding  up  in  a  cloth  rather  loosely,  so  as  to  give  room  for  it  to 
swell,  and  make  the  top  somewhat  roundish.  When  served,  put  the 
rough  side  downwards.  Cut  in  slices  and  eaten  as  other  meat 
dishes.  Boil  i  1-2  hours. 

FRICASEE  CHICKEN.  (Mrs.  D'Upre's.) — Wash  well  your  chicken 
and  cut  it  up ;  put  some  butter  into  a  pan  and  put  your  chicken  in 
it,  then  add  the  boiling  water;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cook  till 
nearly  donej  then  make  a  paste  like  stiff  batter  with  2  eggs,  flour; 
some  milk,  a  little  salt.  Beat  well,  then  drop  from  a  spoon  into  the 
boiling  dish  ;  in  a  few  minutes  it  will  be  cooked  sufficiently.  Serve 
hot. 

CKAB  SOUP. — Pick  out  all  the  flesh  from  your  boiled  crab,  heat 
your  butter  in  a  stew  pan;  when  boiling  hot,  put  your  crab  in  and 
cook  till  brown,  then  pour  in  your  boiling  water;  then  cut  off  the 
the  green  corn  from  3  large  ears;  add  pepper  and  salt.  Boil. 

CRABS  IN  THE  SHELL. — Chop  the  flesh  of  ^he  crab  very  fine  with 
eggs,  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  butter,  mix  well,  and  bake  in  the 
crab  shell. 

ORIENTAL    DISHES. 

A  GENUINE  ARABIAN  RECIPE  FOR  COOKING  LAMB,  (kindly  fur- 
nished by  Mrs.  D.  who  has  for  a  number  of  years,  been  a  resident 
of  the  Holy  Land). — The  Arabians  use  sheep  or  lamb,  and  a  great 
quantity  of  rice  with  it.  One  method  of  preparing  lamb,  is  to  take 
a  piece  of  very  young  lamb,  season  it  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
place  it  in  a  skillet  over  a  very  slow  fire,  and  allow  it  to  fry  in  its  own 
fat.  At  the  same  time  take  some  clabber  (curdled  milk),  and  mix 
over  the  fire  with  a  spoon  until  it  boils.  When  the  meat  is  nearly 
done,  put  it  into  the  boiling  clabber,  and  boil  together  for  half  an 
hour.  Then  take  out  the  meat,  and  let  the  clabber  boil  until  thick 
enough  for  a  gravy.  When  served  up  on  the  table  the  lamb  is  put 


FOREIGN  DISHES.  397 

back  into  the  gravy.  This  is  eaten  with  rice  cooked  in  the  following 
way:  Throw  the  rice,  with  a  little  salt,  into  boiling  water;  stir  with  a 
spoon  once  or  twice  while  boiling,  but  not  oftener.  After  it  has 
boiled  five  minutes,  drain  off  the  water,  add  some  butter  to  the  aice, 
and,  as  is  generally  done,  a  little  yellow  ginger,  or  powdered  saffron 
leaves  for  the  purpose  of  giving  a  yellow  or  gold  color  to  the  rice. 
Cover  it  up  with  a  lid,  set  it  back  on  the  stove,  and  let  it  steam  until 
quite  ready.  This  rice  eaten  with  the  prepared  lamb  is  considered 
by  the  Arabs,  an  excellent  dish. 

ANOTHER  ARABIAN  DISH.  (Mrs.  D.) — Wash  in  cold  water  some 
rice,  to  this  add  about  three  times  the  quantity  of  tender  lamb, 
minced  fine,  some  powdered  thyme,  parsley,  and  one  or  two  onions 
chopped  fine.  Mix  well  together;  then  take  some  nice  hard  toma- 
toes, hollow  them  out  a  little  and  fill  up  the  openings  with  this  mix- 
ture, and  bake  in  an  oven  or  stew  over  a  slow  fire.  The  part  of  the 
tomato  that  has  been  hollowed  out  is  placed  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  and  on  top  of  this  is  placed  the  filled  tomatoes.  Instead  of  to- 
matoes, cabbage  leaves,  or  leaves  plucked  from  the  grapevine  when 
quite  young  are  often  used.  The  leaves  are  first  scalded  in  hot 
water,  and  then  in  each  one  is  rolled  quite  tightly,  some  of  this  mix- 
ture of  meat  and  rice.  They  are  then  pressed  tightly  together  in  a 
pot,  covered  with  water,  and  boiled  until  all  the  water  has  boiled 
out ;  if  not  ready  then,  more  water  can  be  added.  But  before  they 
are  taken  from  the  pot  for  use,  the  water  must  boil  out  entirely. 
Sometimes  egg  plant  and  squashes  are  hollowed  out  and  filled  up 
just  as  the  tomatoes.  These  vegetables,  however,  are  differently 
shaped  from  those  in  America,  being  more  like  a  cucumber  in  form, 
and  more  easy  to  hollow  out, 

KISAILA.  (Italian  dish). — Take  a  nice  piece  of  beef  about  2  or  3 
Ibs.,  and  make  about  2  quarts  of  broth;  then  take  another  sauce  pan, 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  good  sized  onion,  cut  it 
fine,  fry  it  in  the  butter  until  it  gets  nice  and  brown,  then  take  about 
1-2  Ib.  of  rice,  turn  the  rice  in  the  onions  and  butter  for  a  few  min- 
utes on  a  slow  fire,  then  add  about  1-2  of  your  broth  and  stew  it  un- 
til your  rice  is  soft ;  grate  some  cheese  and  stir  it  slowly.  A  little 
saffron  may  be  added  to  color  it.  After  you  have  done  all  these  the 
dish  is  ready  to  be  served  up. 

LARKS. — Scald  sour  grapes  and  then  stone  them ;  beat  up  two 
yolks  of  eggs  with  a  spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  very  little  flour,  a 
bit  of  butter,  and  chopped  parsley :  season  it  highly  with  pepper, 
add  a  spoonful  of  gravy  ;  boil  this  a  moment,  then  put  in  the  grapes 
and  stir  them  with  a  spoon  on  the  fire  to  warm,  without  boiling. 
Roast  the  larks  with  bread  crumbs,  and  serve  them  up  with  the  sauce. 
REMARK. — The  sauce  should  be  sharp  and  highly  seasoned. 


308  FOREIGN  DISHES. 

KIRBY,  THE  NATIONAL  DISH  OF  THE  ARABS. — Many  persons  not 
Arabs,  are  fond  of  it. — It  is  made  of  brayed  or  pounded  rice  or 
wheat  and  pounded  fish  or  mutton,  mixed  with  the  fat  from  the  large 
tailed  or  five-quartered  sheep.  When  thoroughly  pounded  it  is  set 
on  a  copper  dish  made  for  the  purpose  and  baked  in  an  oven  or 
stove.  It  will  keep  15  days  in  winter,  and  makes  an  excellent  lunch 
for  travelers.  When  made  of  fish  this  dish  is  called  Kibbet  Samak. 

A  FAVORITE  DISH  OF  THE  ARABS. — Take  a  young,  fat,  tender 
kid,  dress  it  carefully  and  then  stew  it  in  milk,  generally  sour, 
mixed  with  onions  and  any  hot  spices  wished. 

AN  AFRICAN  DISH. — Damsons  (small  black  plums)  when  dried, 
stew  with  raisins  or  damsons  stewed  together  with  apricots ;  fla- 
vor with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  This  dessert  is  always  relished 
very  much  by  European  travelers  in  Africa. 

CARACH  SAUCE — Oriental. — Take  cloves  of  garlic,  cut  each  into 
1-2,  1-2  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  i  or  2  spoonfuls  of  soy  and 
walnut  pickle,  mix  in  a  pint  of  vinegar  with  as  much  cochineal  as 
will  color  it. 

DR.  GILLMAN'S  RECIPE  FOR  SALAD  OIL  FROM  DILL. — Take  about 
26  seres  (pounds)  of  dill  seed,  first  wash  well  and  clean  and  spread 
on  a  table-cloth  to  dry  in  the  sun.  Pick  it  clean  from  all  other  seed 
and  let  it  be  thoroughly  dried,  then  express  oil  in  a  well  cleaned  oil 
mill,  carefully  preventing  its  being  stirred  with  a  hot  iron,  which 
would  spoil  the  oil,  which  is  a  common  practice  among  native  oil- 
makers.  About  26  seres  (pounds)  of  seed  will  yield  16  quart  bot- 
tles of  oil,  and  the  whole  expense  will  be  but  a  trifle. 

NOTE — Poppy  seed  may  be  used  in  the  same  way  and  propor- 
tions, and  used  for  salad  oil. 

FOREIGNERS  soon  acquire  a  taste  for  those  Oriental  dishes,  which 
in  tropical  and  semi-tropical  climates  are  very  conducive  to  health, 
when  the  blood  becomes  thin.  This  diet  thickens  it  and  wards  oft 
many  diseases.  The  authoress  had  an  excellent  opportunity  to  see 
this  tested,  and  was  often  the  guest  of  a  famous  East  Indian  house- 
keeper and  an  accomplished  lady,  wife  of  the  then  great  scholar  in 
Oriental  literature  and  an  author  of  many  valuable  works  in  differ- 
ent Oriental  languages. 

VEGETABLE  CURRY. — Put  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a  stew  pan,  then 
roll  celery,  onions  and  broccoli  in  curry  powder;  stew  them  till  ten- 
der, add  i  cup  of  good  gravy  and  a  small  quantity  of  mashed  pota- 
toes mixed  up  with  curry  powder,  and  stew  the  whole  together  until 
sufficiently  done. 

CORUNDA  JAM. — Put  the  fruit  into  a  jar  and  boil  it  in  a  kettle  of 
water  until  the  juice  is  expressed,  then  add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar 
and  boil  until  it  will  jelly,  which  will  be  shown  by  putting  a  little  out 
on  a  plate. 


FOREIGN  DISHES.  399 

NOTE — Country  gooseberries  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  and 
make  an  excellent  jam,  when  care  must  be  taken  to  preserve  them, 
and  use  sugar  alone,  and  not  mix  any  spice,  which  spoils  them. 

BHAMTA. — An  Indian  dish. —  Mash  some  potatoes,  and,  having 
boiled  i  or  2  onions,  chop  them  small  together  with  a  few  capsicums". 
Mix  the  whole  together  very  well,  put  it  into  a  mould,  or  form  it 
with  a  spoon  into  a  handsome  shape  and  brown  it  in  an  oven  or 
stove. 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKE  THAT  WILL  KEEP  FOR  SEVEN  YEARS. — To  4 
oz.  of  butter  allow  2  pound  of  sugar  powdered  fine,  6  eggs,  leaving 
out  the  whites  of  2,  the  rinds  of  3  lemons  grated,  and  the  juice  of  3 ; 
put  them  in  an  enameled  kettle  and  let  them  simmer  over  the  fire 
till  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  it  begins  to  thicken  like  honey.  When 
cold,  put  it  into  sweet  meat  jars  or  pots  for  use.  When  made  into 
cheese  cakes  add  grated  sweet  biscuit. 

HYBISCUS  JAM. — Pare  off  the  upper  part  of  the  fruit,  and  cut  the 
seeds  from  the  lower  or  stem  part ;  to  each  seer  (2  Ibs.)  of  the  fruit 
add  a  cup  of  water;  put  the  whole  in  a  stone  jar,  boil  it  in  a  kettle  of 
water  for  4  or  5  hours,  take  it  out,  weigh  it,  add  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar  and  boil  until  it  will  jelly.  Hybiscus  jelly  is  made  in  the  same 
way,  only  the  juice  must  be  obtained  before  the  sugar  is  added. 

STEWED  PARTRIDGES. — Take  4  young  partridges  nicely  cleaned 
and  put  them  into  a  deep  cooking  pot  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  a 
little  water;  put  them  on  a  brisk  fire,  keep  the  cover  on  the  pot  and 
move  it  about  constantly  to  prevent  the  birds  burning  or  browning 
on  the  bottom.  The  partridges  are  sufficiently  cooked  the  instant 
the  red  gravy  is  seen  to  percolate  from  the  bird  and  mix  with  the 
melted  butter.  Serve  them  up  hot  with  cayenne  pepper  and  the 
sauce  crust. 

SHAKAREE. —  Hunter's  Soup. — For  a  large  hunting  party,  take  the 
produce  of  the  game  bags,  some  15  or  20  braces  of  partridges  or 
quails,  3  or  4  hares  or  wild  fowl ;  add  a  good  deal  of  pepper  and 
salt,  any  odds  and  ends  of  vegetables  out  of  the  basket,  and  a  bottle 
of  each  of  the  wine  or  beer  that  can  be  spared  from  the  supply.  Put 
all  into  the  soup  kettle,  fill  up  with  water  and  commence  the  stew, 
which  may  be  entrusted  to  the  masalchee  (scullion);  he  cannot  go 
wrong.  Set  him  to  work  early  in  the  morning  and  when  the  party 
returns  from  shooting  in  the  evening,  order  all  the  meat  to  be  taken 
out  and  correct  the  seasoning.  Cut  a  single  loaf,  an  old,  hard,  dried 
one  will  do  as  well  as  a  fresh  one,  into  pieces  about  2  inches  square, 
put  into  the  soup  and  boil  it,  and  serve  the  party  out  of  the  kettle. 

CITRON  MARMALADE. — Grate  off  the  outer  portion  of  the  citrons, 
then  quarter  them,  remove  the  seeds  and  put  the  juice  and  pulp 
aside ;  then  boil  the  skins  first  in  the  water  and  afterwards  in  sugar 


4OO  FOREIGN  DISHES. 

and  water  until  they  are  quite  tender,  then  cut  them  into  small  piec- 
es. Take  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  with  the  juire  and  pulp,  boil  it 
together  with  the  sliced  skins  until  it  will  jelly  on  a  plate,  and  put  it 
into  jars. 

HINDOOSTANEE  KuBAB.— Skewer  on  small  silver  skewers,  alternately 
slices  of  apples,  slices  of  meat  cut  into  round  pieces  the  same  size, 
and  halves  of  onions,  so  as  to  have  4  pieces  each,  i.  e.  12  on  each 
skewer.  To  2  Ibs.  weight  take  a  dram  of  turmeric,  4  onions  and  a 
dram  of  red  pepper,  pound  them  in  a  mortar;  sprinkle  over,  fry  them 
with  the  kubab  in  a  stewpan  with  4  oz.  butter.  Send  up  boiled  rice 
with  this  dish. 

A  PEPPER  CAKE. — One  half  pound  of  flour,  1-2  Ib.  of  treacle,  i  tea 
spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  2  eggs,  a  little  ammonia,  i  tablespoonful 
each  of  coriander  and  caraway  seeds.  Make  the  treacle  hot  and  mix  in 
the  other  ingredients. 

TURKISH  DISH. — Chop  some  slices  of  beef  or  beefsteak  very  fine 
with  a  little  parsley,  onions  and  bread  crumbs,  powdered  pepper  and 
spice,  salt  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Mix  them  together  with  a  very 
little  water,  so  as  to  make  them  into  balls  the  size  of  an  egg ;  then 
flour  them,  place  them  regularly  in  a  frying  pan  and  fry  them  a  good 
brown  color  with  lard  or  drippings.  (This  dish  is  called  quaffties.) 

BOMBAY  METHOD  OF  DRESSING  A  FOWL. — The  fowl  being  trussed, 
incissions  are  made  in  every  part,  the  same  as  when  a  fowl  is  about 
to  be  carved,  but  without  severing  the  joints.  The  breast  is  cut  as 
for  taking  out  slices  and  the  legs  scored  across.  The  whole  fowl, 
inside  and  out,  is  then  rubbed  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little 
cayenne  pepper  or  Chili,  so  as  to  be  very  highly  seasoned.  After 
this  it  is  enclosed  in  a  good,  thick  paste,  composed  of  flour,  milk  and 
butter ;  one  end  of  which  is  left  open  to  fill  it  with  water,  this  being 
done,  it  is  closed  up  and  put  into  a  cloth  and  boiled  3  or  4  hours, 
when  it  becomes  a  rich  and  most  relishing  dish. 

THE  ARABS  use  the  red  rice  generally  procured  from  Egypt.  The 
white  rice,  growing  in  Galilee,  is  inferior  to  the  red,  being  much 
tougher. — (Mrs.  D.) 

THE  HASTINGS  CURRY. — Brown  4  oz.  fresh  butter;  slice  3  large 
onions  and  fry  them.  Cut  the  heart  of  a  hard  white  cabbage  very 
fine  and  a  large  sour  apple.  Put  the  whole  into  a  stew  pan,  add  i 
teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  i  of  black  pepper,  i  of  turmeric,  the 
juice  of  1-2  lemon,  and  a  gill  of  strong  gravy.  Put  in  the  fowl,  flour 
it,  add  a  little  salt,  put  it  with  the  rest  of  the  ingredients,  cover  close- 
ly to  keep  in  the  steam  and  let  it  stew  for  3  hours. 

PINE  APPLE  OR  APPLE  PALOO. — Boil  12  oz.  of  rice  in  water;  when 
only  one  quarter  of  the  grains  remain  hard  pour  off  one  half  the  hot 
water,  fill  up  the  pan  with  cold  water,  shake  it,  then  pour  off  all  the 


FOREIGN  DISHES.  40! 

water  and  set  the  pan,  covered,  near  the  fire.  When  dry,  add  i  Ib. 
of  preserved  pine  apples  with  some  syrup ;  or,  should  pine  apples 
not  be  obtainable,  slices  of  apples  boiled  with  sugar ;  fry  2  sliced 
onions  in  1-4  Ib,  butter  (fresh)  ;  when  the  onions  are  browned,  take 
them  out  as  they  will  be  no  longer  wanted  ;  put  6  cloves  whole  into 
the  butter  and  pour  it  over  the  rice,  put  the  apples  on  the  top  and 
set  the  whole  over  the  fire  to  swell ;  keep  it  covered  but  stir  occa- 
sionally. Plain  curry  should  accompany  this  dish  and  be  eaten  with 
it.  This  is  a  very  popular  dish. 

A  BENGAL PARAOARD  PIE. — Bengal  Sporting  Magazine. — Take  12 
of  the  tenderest  partridges,  pick  them,  after  picking  wipe  them  clean 
but  do  not  wash  them — washing  meat  in  water,  not  only  takes  away 
its  flavor,  but  its  strength — and  put  them  aside ;  put  them  into  a 
vessel  capable  of  holding,  with  well  seasoned  1-2  mutton  ham  cut 
into  moderate  pieces ;  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  and  stew 
until  the  gravy  is  greatly  reduced;  take  all  the  lean  parts  of  the  mut- 
ton ham  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  with  seasoning  of  pepper  and  all- 
spice. The  partridges  and  ham  should  be  taken  out  of  the  kettle, 
and  excellent  potted  game  may  be  made  of  them,  as  they  are  full  of 
rich  gravy,  impregnated  with  the  flavor  of  ham.  The  gravy  or  soup 
is  to  remain  until  it  is  cold,  and  the  fat  is  carefully  removed ;  season 
it  with  black  pepper  and  spices,  and  stew  the  birds  until  quite  ten- 
der, put  them  into  a  round  pie,  adding  the  pounded  ham  and  the 
gravy  reduced  into  a  rich  consummee.  Cover  the  pie  with  a  crust; 
bake  slowly.  It  is  to  be  eaten  cold  and  will  prove  a  dish  that  few 
princes  can  command.  In  hot  weather  put  it  into  the  ice  basket  a 
couple  of  hours  before  dinner. 

THE  LUCKNOW  RECIPE  FOR  PICKLING  LIMES  OR  LEMONS. — Bruise 
the  limes  or  lemons  on  a  stone,  then  throw  them  into  water,  and 
place  them  afterwards  in  an  earthen  vessel;  cover  with  salt  for  2  or  3 
days,  shaking  the  vessel  frequently  ;  take  out  the  limes  when  they 
are  soft,  spread  them  on  a  cloth,  and  let  them  dry.  In  a  hot  coun- 
try the  open  air  is  sufficient,  but  in  cold  climates  they  should  be 
placed  by  the  stove.  When  dry,  add  vinegar  and  the  juice  which 
came  from  them  when  in  the  earthen  vessel. 

R.HICHAREE. — Boil  a  pint  of  rice  in  broth ;  having  steeped  a  tea- 
cupful  of  dried  peas  in  water  for  10  hours,  boil  them  till  they  are 
soft;  then  slice  2  or  3  onions  and  fry  them  in  butter,  with  12  cardo- 
man  seeds,  a  little  white  pepper,  6  cloves,  and  salt ;  take  out  the  on- 
ions, when  browned,  and  spice,  and  add  a  cup  of  curds  or  milk  to 
the  batter,  stew  it  a  little ;  distribute  the  onions,  spice  and  peas 
equally  through  the  rice,  and  pour  the  batter,  &c.,  over  it.  Or  put 
the  whole  in  an  earthen  jar,  secure  the  aperture  with  paste,  and  put 
it  into  the  oven,  or  over  a  charcoal  fire,  for  25  minutes,  adding  suffi- 


4O2  FOREIGN  DISHES. 

cient  broth  to  moisten  it;  in  which  case  the  rice  must  be  only  1-2 
boiled  previously. 

BENGAL  WAY  TO  BOIL  RICE. — Wash  it  well,  boil  it  in  a  large  quan- 
tity of  water ;  when  very  little  of  the  center  of  the  grain  remains 
hard,  take  it  off  from  the  fire,  drain  off  1-2  or  more  of  the  hot  water, 
fill  the  sauce  pan  with  cold  water,  and  shake  the  rice,  then  strain  all 
the  water  off,  and  the  grains  will  separate  ;  place  the  pan  of  rice  near 
the  fire  to  swell  and  the  center  part  of  the  grains  will  become  tender. 

PISH  PASH. — Take  slbs.  of  the  neck  of  mutton,  boil  it  till  tender; 
prepare  a  small  teacupful  of  rice  by  bruising  it  in  a  mortar  ;  then  cut 
the  meat  into  small  pieces,  throw  the  rice,  meat  and  onion  sliced, 
into  the  water  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  add  a  small  piece  of 
mace,  and  a  few  pepper  corns  tied  in  a  muslin  bag ;  boil  till  the  rice 
and  onions  are  sufficiently  done,  take  out  the  muslin  bag,  season 
with  salt  and  serve  up.  Chicken,  frogs  or  fish  may  be  used  in  the 
place  of  the  mutton. 

KOFTAHS. — Pound  in  a  mortar  2  Ibs.  of  mutton,  beef,  rabbit,  or 
fowl,  with  a  sprig  of  sweet  marjoram,  a  dozen  of  red  peppers,  and  4 
onions  ;  form  them  into  balls  the  size  of  walnuts,  and  fry  them  in  but- 
ter. When  the  balls  are  well  browned,  make  a  gravy  in  the  pan  and 
serve  them  up  in  it.  Serve  up  boiled  rice  in  another  dish. 

ZUNDER. — Boil  a  pound  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  broth  until  a  small 
part  of  the  center  of  the  grain  alone  remains  hard,  then  strain  it; 
reserve  a  teacupful  of  the  broth  and  boil  in  a  spoonful  of  saffron  ; 
then  strain  it,  and  pour  the  broth  thus  colored  upon  the  rice.  Kof- 
tahs  must  be  served  in  a  separate  dish. 

DUMPOKHT.  (the  dish  mentioned  in  the  Arabian  Nights  as  the  kid 
stuffed  with  pistachio  nuts.) — Clean  and  dress  a  fowl  or  rabbit  as  for 
roasting,  then  stuff  it  with  sultana  raisins,  pistachio  nuts,  and  boiled 
rice  in  equal  parts.  Rub  fine  an  oz.  of  coriander  seed,  peel  from 
the  husks  4  onions,  12  pepper  corns,  6  cloves,  and  i  teaspoonful  of 
pounded  ginger.  Set  1 2  oz.  butter  in  a  stew  pan  over  the  fire  ;  rub 
the  pounded  ingredients  over  the  fowl  or  rabbit,  and  let  it  fry  until 
perfectly  brown  and  tender.  Boil  in  2  pints  of  white  broth, '12  oz. 
of  rice,  2  oz.  each  of  sultana  raisins,  pistachio  nuts,  and  almonds, 
the  two  latter  being  blanched  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  When  the 
rice  is  nearly  tender,  strain  off  the  broth",  and  add  the  rice  to  the 
fried  fowl;  stir  the  whole  well,  that  the  batter  may  carefully  saturate 
the  rice  and  keep  it  near  the  fire  to  swell  till  wanted.  In  serving 
surround  the  fowl  with  the  rice,  Observe  that  in  pounding  the 
onions,  the  juice  only  is  used  with  the  spices,  or  they  must  be  rubbed 
and  pounded  so  finely  as  not  to  be  perceptible.  Chestnuts  may  be 
substituted  for  the  pistachio  nuts. 

CAUBASH.— Mrs.  H.'s  recipe.— The  upper  shell  of  the  turtle  is 


FOREIGN  DISHES.  403 

called  the  calibash,  the  under  calipee.  Scrape  the  meat  from  the 
calibash,  immerse  the  latter  in  tepid  water,  rub  and  wash  it  until 
the  shell  is  entirely  clean,  wipe  it  dry,  cover  the  inside  completely 
with  a  light  puff  paste,  take  enough  of  the  nicest  part  of  the  tur- 
tle (using  the  coarser  pieces  for  soup)  to  fill  the  shapes,  put  this 
meat  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  mace;  or 
or  any  sweet  herb  used  in  cooking  which  may  be  preferred.-  For 
a  pound  of  meat  take  1-4  pound  of  fresh  butter,  rub  into  it  a 
dessert  spoonful  of  flour,  drop  this  into  the  stew  pan,  cover  with 
cold  water.  Put  on  the  lid  of  the  stew  pan  and  set  it  on  the 
stove  or  a  trivet  before  the  fire,  stew  gently,  skimming  off  all  the 
impurities  until  the  meat  is  tender;  add  a  wineglassful  of  mush- 
room catsup,  or  any  other  preferred,  the  same  of  sherry  wine  ; 
stir  all  up  and  pour  into  the  shell  or  calibash,  put  on  an  upper  crust, 
making  it  large  enough  to  fit  exactly  ;  notch  it  around  tastily,  cut  a 
slit  in  the  center.  Should  there  not  be  gravy  enough,  pour  in  suffi- 
cient boiling  water  to  answer.  Bake  a  light  brown,  send  to  the  table 
on  a  square  dish  to  fit  as  nicely  as  possible  the  shell.  When  well 
arranged  this  is  a  dish  as  beautiful  as  savory. 

"ANGELS  ON  HORSEBACK." — Select  a  dozen  large  oysters,  which, 
after  removing  their  beards  as  well  as  the  color  parts,  put  the  flesh 
into  a  plate  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  blanch  a  piece  of  old 
bacon  ;  when  cold  cut  it  in  thin  strips,  out  of  which  again  cut  squares 
of  the  diameter  of  the  oysters ;  take  the  oysters,  one  by  one;  pile 
them  on  little  silver  skewers  ,  alternating  each  of  the  oysters  by  a 
little  square  of  bacon ;  give  6  oysters  to  each  of  the  skewers,  sprin- 
kle over  the  oysters  a  little  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  chopped  pars- 
ley; broil  the  oysters  at  a  brisk  fire,  but  observe  for  3  minutes  only  ; 
dish  the  skewers,  placing  them  on  a  little  crouton  of  bread,  fried  in 
butter  and  kept  hot. 

TURKISH  MODE  OF  ROASTING  LAMB. — Put  the  whole  lamb,  after 
it  is  stuffed  with  currants,  almonds  and  pistachio  nut  (which  should 
be  blanched  and  peeled),  into  a  deep  dish  and  covered,  set  it  in  a 
hole  in  the  ground,  then  cover  over  with  burning  wooden  coals. 

TURKISH  RICE  PUDDING. — Pick  and  wash  1-2  pound  of  rice,  and 
also  the  same  of  Zante  currants,  which  must  also  be  picked  care- 
fully clean,  washed  through  2  waters,  drained  well,  and  then  spread 
out  to  dry  on  a  flat  dish  before  the  fire.  Put  the  rice  into  a  pan 
with  2  pints  of  rich  milk,  having  dredged  the  currants  with  flour; 
stir  them,  a  few  at  a  time,  into  the  rice  and  milk,  then  add  4  ozs.  of 
pounded  loaf  sugar,  on  which  had  been  rubbed  off  the  yellow  rind 
of  a  large  orange  or  lemon,  and  squeeze  the  juice.  Stir  in  2  ozs. 
of  fresh  butter  divided  into  bits.  When  the  rice  is  well  swollen 
and  quite  soft,  take  it  from  the  fire  and  mix.  with  it  gradually  8  well- 


404  FOREIGN  DISHES. 

beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Pour  into  a  deep  china  dish  and  set  in  the 
oven  for  1-2  hour,  then  sift  powdered  sugar  thickly  over  the  top, 
and  brown  the  above  with  a  salamander  or  hot  shovel.  Serve  up 
hot. 

NOTE — This  pudding  may  be  made  with  ground  rice  or  flour. 

D'ALMOY'S. — A  Turkish  dish. — Take  equal  quantities  of  cool, 
dressed  veal  minced  very  fine,  fat  and  crumbs  of  bread,  and  season 
it  well ;  add  chopped  onions,  parsley,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper ;  wet 
it  with  i  or  2  eggs,  according  to  the  quantity,  adding,  if  necessary, 
a  little  cold  melted  butter ;  make  the  mixture  into  balls  or  egg- 
shapes  and  roll  them  in  as  much  boiled  rice  as  they  will  take 
around  them  ;  stew  them  for  11-4  hours  in  good  gravy  well  seasoned, 
and  serve  them  up. 

ITALIAN  DISHES. 

ITALIAN  CHEESE,  (sweet) — i  1-2  pints  of  rich  sweet  cream,  2  lem- 
ons and  the  rind  ;  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  few  pounded  almonds  and 
sugar  to  sweeten  it.  Melt  for  ten  minutes;  put  all  into  a  deep  sieve 
with  a  muslin  under  it.  to  drain. 

FISH  TO  FRY. — Roll  in  corn  meal  the  pieces  of  fish,  then  put  into 
boiling  olive  oil  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

SALAD  TO  EAT  WITH  THE  FRIED  FISH. — Chop  some  parsley  very 
fine,  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  salad  oil,  some  lime  or  lemon 
juice  or  white  vinegar  ;  mix  till  of  the  consistency  of  cream.  Cab- 
bage, lettuce,  cress  or  chickory  may  also  be  used. 

EGGS. — Boil  4  eggs  10  minutes  and  i  egg  5  minutes;  take  the 
yolk  of  the  latter,  mix  with  salt,  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil, 
and  i  dessert  spoonful  of  white  vinegar ;  cut  the  hard  eggs  into 
slices  and  serve  hot  with  the  above  sauce  poured  over  them. 

N.  B.  Some  prefer  melted  butter  with  pepper  and  salt  as  a  sauce. 

How  TO  COOK  MACCARONI — the  dressing  for  it.— Select  a  piece  of 
beef  as  for  a  fine  round  roast,  dress  it  with  pepper  and  salt  (and  in- 
sert a  few  pieces  of  garlic  in  fat,  if  not  objectionable),  then  put  some 
lard  in  a  pan  and  place  the  roast  in  in  it  over  a  slow  fire  ;  stir  it  oc- 
casionally until  slightly  brown  on  all  sides  —do  not  allow  the  pan 
to  get  dry — then  put  in  some  fine  cut  onions,  and  when  they  are 
well  done  pour  in  1-2  tumbler  of  claret.  When  the  claret  is  con- 
sumed put  in  2  or  3  nice  smooth-skinned  tomatoes  with  skins 
taken  off,  and  cut  in  slices,  und  when  they  are  fully  cooked  pour 
in  hot  water  enough  to  cover  the  meat ;  then  leave  all  to  cook  until 
well  done. 

N.  B.  The  gravy  produced  in  this  manner  forms  the  dressing  for 
the  maccaroni. 

THE  MACCARONI.— While  the  above  is  being  done  take  i  Ib.  of 


FOREIGN  DISHES.  40$ 

maccaroni  and  put  it  in  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water  with  salt;  let  it 
boil  from  15  to  20  minutes,  then  strain  and  place  a  layer  of  macca- 
roni in  a  flat  table  dish  ;  over  this  layer  spread  1-2  of  the  dressing 
already  prepared,  and  sprinkle  some  grated  rich,  dry  cheese  (Pame- 
san  or  any  other  Italian  cheese)  over  this;  place  a  second  layer  of 
maccaroni,  the  remainder  of  the  dressing  or  gravy,  and  more  grated 
cheese,  then  you  have  it  ready  to  serve  hot.  The  above  makes  a 
dish  for  4  persons. 

NOTE. — The  meat  can  be  served  as  an  excellent  roast.  0 

RUSSIAN  DISHES. 

To  GARNISH  MEATS  OF  ANY  KIND,  COOKED  ANY  WAY. — Put  a  glaze 
of  milk,  flour,  butter,  and  a  little  salt,  (boiled  together)  over  the 
meat  while  the  paste  is  hot;  then  pound  parsley  fine,  and  add  to 
this  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped,  some  very  fiae,  some 
coarse,  and  drop  this  mixture  all  over  the  dish,  or  it  may  be  sprinkled 
on  by  sifting  through  a  coarse  sieve.  The  garnish  is  lovely. 

APPLE  PORK  PIE. — Peel,  core  and  quarter  some  fine  juicy  baking 
apples.  Make  a  nice  paste  with  fresh  butter  and  sifted  flour,  and 
line  with  it  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  deep  dish ;  put  in  the  apples, 
and  strew  over  them  sufficient  brown  sugar  to  make  them  very  sweet. 
If  you  can  obtain  a  fresh  lemon,  pare  off  very  thin  the  yellow  rind, 
and  squeeze  the  juice  out  and  pour  over  the  apples.  Prepare  some 
fresh  pork  steaks,  cut  thin,  and  divested  of  all  the  fat  except  a  little 
on  the  edge,  removing  the  bone.  Cover  the  apples  with  a  layer  of 
pork,  and  pour  in  a  teacupful  of  cider.  The  contents  of  the  pie 
should  be  heaped  up  in  the  center.  Have  ready  a  nice  lid  of  paste, 
and  cover  the  pie  with  it,  closing  and  crimping  the  edge  ;  in  the  cen- 
ter cut  a  cross  slit  or  make  a  round  hole  to  prevent  it  bursting.  Put 
it  into  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  it  well.  This  is  a  very  good  farm 
house  dish.  Try  it. 

POLISH  DISHES. 

POLISH  MOCK  RABBIT,  (or  Hare). — Take  an  equal  quantity  of  beef, 
veal  and  pork,  chop  it  very  fine,  removing  all  skins  and  sinews,  mix 
with  butter  and  some  bread  that  has  been  soaked  in  water  and 
pressed  dry,  (for  each  Ib.  of  meat  allow  6  oz.  butter  and  1-2  of  a  5 
cent  loaf  of  bread),  then  add  some  onions  chopped  fine  and  stewed 
in  butter,  salt,  some  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg  and  sardines  chopped  fine; 
mix  well  together.  If  the  mixture  is  wanted  to  be  very  fine,  press 
through  a  coarse  seive.  Now  form  of  this  mixture  in  a  pan,  greased 
with  butter,  a  rabbit;  cut  some  thin,  narrow  strips  of  fat  bacon  and 
put  them  into  the  rabbit  by  means  of  a  skewer,  to  give  the  whole 


406 


REFRESHING  DRINKS. 


the  appearance  of  a  larded  rabbit ;  sprinkle  some  salt  and  melted 
butter  over  it  and  put  into  a  hot  oven ;  baste  often  and  leave  it  till 
the  bacon  commences  to  brown,  then  add  some  sour  cream  and  con- 
tinue roasting,  frequently  basting,  until  done,  which  will  take  about 
3-4  of  an  hour.  Take  the  hare  from  the  pan,  taking  care  not  to 
break  it;  cut  into  slices  crossways  and  place  it  in  a  hot  dish,  dissolve 
with  sour  cream  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  adding  salt  and  thickening 
with  flour  if  necessary  and  strain  through  a  sieve. 

PANCAKES  OF  RAW  POTATOES. — Peel  large  potatoes,  either  Irish 
or  sweet,  and  grate  them  to  make  about  i  quart,  press  out  the  water 
through  a  cloth,  and  add  the  yolk  of  six  eggs,  and  6  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  salt  to  suit,  mix  well,  adding  to  the  mixture  a  froth  beaten 
firmly  of  the  whites  of  the  six  eggs  Fry  in  clarified  butter  or  sweet 
leaf  lard  over  a  slow  fire,  making  the  cakes  from  a  spoonful  each, 
which  have  to  be  done  to  a  nice  light  brown  on  both  sides. 

ONION  CAKE. — Cut  i  gallon  peeled  onions  into  thin  slices,  stew 
them  with  a  little  salt  in  butter  or  sweet  fresh  lard  till  soft,  but  not 
brown,  then  strain  through  a  colander.  Roll  out  the  dough  thin, 
and  place  in  a  bread  pan,  form  a  high  rim  all  around  and  let  rise. 
Wash  the  rim  with  a  beaten  egg  and  place  the  onions  smoothly  on 
the  dough,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  almost  done,  pour  the  batter 
over  it  and  return  to  the  oven  until  done. 

Prepare  the  batter  mentioned  above,  with  3  eggs,  1-2  tablespnon- 
ful  flour,  1-2  pint  of  cream,  and  a  little  salt. 

BACON  CAKE. — Prepare  i  Ib.  of  flour,  7  oz.  butter,  3  eggs,  i  oz. 
sugar,  i  3-4  oz.  yeast,  a  little  salt,  and  about  3  gills  of  lukewarm 
milk,  a  light  dough  ;  work  -it  thoroughly  and  let  it  rise ;  work  again 
and  roll  out  on  a  large  paw.  Form  a  rim  around  the  pan  and  let  it 
rise  again  ;  cover  with  fat  bacon  cut  into  small  cakes  or  dice,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  caraway  seeds,  and  bake  a  nice  light  brown  in  a  hot 
oven. 

A  GOOD  SUBSTITUTE  FOR  MEAT,  (The  Vegetable  Egg). — When 
fully  ripe,  pare  and  cut  into  slices  1-4  inch  thick  the  egg  plant,  then 
rub  a  mixture  of  equal  proportions  of  salt  and  black  pepper,  with 
the  fingers,  on  both  sides  of  the  slices,  then  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  on 
a  buttered  griddle;  when  brown  on  both  sides  they  are  done.  Eat 
while  hot. 

REFRESHING  DRINKS. 

MOUNTAIN  NECTAR.— Mrs.  B.— Mix  in  4  pints  of  water  6  pounds 
of  white  sugar,  4  ounces  tartaric  acid  ;  put  into  a  porcelain  kettle, 
and  let  it  come  not  quite  to  the  boiling  point ;  take  from  the  fire 
and  stir  in  the  whites  of  4  eggs  well  beaten  ;  strain  it,  and  when  it 
cools  flavor  it  richly  with  the  essence  of  lemon.  It  will  keep  for 


REFRESHING  DRINKS.  407 

months ;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  this  mixture  in  2-3  glass  of  ice  water ; 
to  be  poured  into  a  goblet  when  ready  to  drink.  If  a  little  soda  is 
added  it  will  effervesce  beautifully. 

RASPBERRY  NECTAR. — Put  into  a  jar  fully  ripe  rasberries  and  allow 
i  quart  of  good  apple  vinegar  to  every  2  quarts  of  the  berries. 
After  fermenting  strain,  and  to  every  quart  of  juice  allow  i  1-2  Ibs. 
of  loaf  sugar.  Simmer  for  20  minutes. 

CHERRY  NECTAR. — Wash  and  pick  and  stone  1-2  of  6  pounds  of 
cherries  and  add  5  tumblers  full  of  good  cider  vinegar  or  white 
wine ;  let  it  stand  for  4  or  5  days,  strain  through  a  cloth,  and  allow- 
to  every  pint  of  juice  i  pound  of  loaf  sugar ;  pour  into  a  porcelain 
kettle  and  boil  for  15  minutes.  When  cold  bottle  and  cork  it  tight; 
keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Mix  half  and  half  with  water,  adding  a 
little  ice.  The  water  should  be  very  cold.  A  delightful  summer 
drink. 

WHITE  WINK  WHEY  FOR  COLDS. — This  will  produce  perspiration 
in  cases  of  colds.  Take  1-2  pint  of  milk  and  put  it  on  the  fire  in  a 
sauce  pan,  and  immediately  that  it  boils,  put  into  it  2  glasses  of  white 
wine  with  a  little  sugar  dissolved  in  it.  A  light  floating  curd  will  be 
instantly  seen;  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  pour  it  through  a  sieve  so  that 
the  whey  may  run  from  the  curd.  Serve  the  whey  hot ;  throw  away 
the  curd,  for  it  is  exceedingly  indigestible  and  should  not  be  eaten. 

HARVEST  DRINK.  (Scotch.) — Buttermilk  or  whey,  the  latter  is  the 
whey  poured  from  the  milk  after  it  has  boiled  in  a  kettle,  when  an 
other  curd  will  be  formed,  then  with  the  whip  the  last  curd  forma- 
tion is  broken  but  not  removed.  It  is  then  taken  to  the  harvest 
field  in  clean  buckets  for  the  laborers,  and  forms  a  very  sustaining 
drink  and  may  be  eaten  with  bread  and  cheese,  a  little  meat  or  salt 
bacon. 

A  HONEY  MEAD. — With  16  quarts  of  honey  mix  the  whites  of  3 
eggs  beaten  to  a  strong  froth,  6  gals,  of  water  and  the  yellow  rind  of 
20  large  lemons  pared  very  thin,  During  3-4  of  an  hour  boil  all  to- 
gether, carefully  removing  the  skum,  then  pour  it  into  a  tub  and 
when  milk  warm,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  the  best  fresh  yeast.  Cover 
it  well  and  let  it  ferment ;  when  this  is  accomplished  pour  it  into  a 
barrel  with  the  lemon  peel  at  the  bottom.  Let  it  stand  for  6  months 
then  bottle  closely. 

MEAD  OR  METHEGLIN. — Put  3  pints  of  clear  honey  to  every  gallon 
of  water,  boil  it  well  and  skim  all  the  time.  Put  in  2  lemon  peels  to 
each  gallon  while  boiling.  Pour  it  into  a- clean  tub  and  when  luke 
warm,  add  some  yeast  to  work  it,  then  pour  off  and  put  the  liquor 
into  a  clean  barrel  for  5  or  6  months  and  afterwards  bottle  it  for  use. 
The  skimmings  may  be  strained  through  a  filtering  bag.  If  you  al- 
low 2  quarts  of  honey  to  every  gallon,  it  will  keep  for  7  years. 


408  REFRESHING  DRINKS. 

SACK  MEAD. — Add  4  pints  of  honey  to  every  gal.  of  honey,  boil 
3-4  of  an  hour,  taking  care  to  skim  it,  and  to  every  gal.  add  i  oz.  of 
hops,  then  boil  the  mixture  1-2  hour  and  let  it  stand  till  next  day; 
put  it  into  a  cask  and  to  13  gals,  of  the  mixture  add  a  quart  of 
brandy.  Let  it  be  lightly  stopped  till  it  has  ceased  to  ferment,  then 
stop  it  very  closely.  If  a  large  cask,  keep  it  a  year  in  the  cask. 

WELSH  METHEGLIN  OB  BRAGGET. — To  i  gal.  of  water  put  i  pint 
of  clear  honey  and  stir  the  whole  well,  then  add  1-2  handful  each  of 
balm,  thyme,  rosemary  tops,  bay  leaves,  angelica,  sweet  briar  and 
other  fragrant  herbs,  with  1-2  oz.  each  of  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves, 
ginger  and  mace ;  boil  all  gently  for  30  minutes  and  skim  constantly. 
This  liquor  is  mixed  with  3  gals,  of  the  first  running  of  strong  ale  or 
sweet  flagroot  and  placed  over  the  fire,  but  not  sufficient  to  boil. 
When  cool,  it  is  strained  and  fermented  with  yeast,  and  afterwards 
barrelled  with  a  bag  of  spices  in  it. 

APPLE  WATER. — Pare,  core  and  cut  into  very  thin  slices  3  large 
juicy  apples,  put  them  in  a  pitcher,  and  if  you  have  it,  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  pared  thin,  and  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover  it  close- 
ly and  let  it  stand  by  the  fire  for  an  hour  or  2.  Let  it  cool  and  pour 
the  liquid  in  a  glass  and  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar.  It  is  a  cooling 
drink  in  fevers,  and  should  be  taken  warm  when  going  to  bed,  for 
colds. 

CHERRY  WATER. — Pick  2  Ibs.  of  Mayduke  cherries,  put  them  into 
a  basin,  pour  over  them  3  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  let  them  steep 
for  2  hours ;  filter  through  a  flannel  bag  with  some  paper.  To  the 
filtered  juice  add  i  quart  of  warm  syrup.  Mix  hot  and  pour  the 
cherry  water  into  glass  bottles. 

BLACK  CHERRY  WATER.— Crush  6  Ibs.  of  black  cherries  and  to 
them  put  a  handful  each  of  the  tops  of  marigold,  angelica,  rosemary, 
spearmint,  balm  and  sweet  marjoram,  1-2  oz.  each  of  sweet  fennel 
and  anis-seed,  i  oz.  of  dried  violets.  Cut  the  herbs  small,  mix  them 
all  together  and  distill  them  in  a  cold  still. 

CRANBERRY  WATER. — Bruise  a  cupful  of  cranberries  mixed  with  a 
cupful  of  cold  water.  Boil  2  quarts  of  water  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
oatmeal  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  then  stir  in  the  cranberries  and  add 
2  oz.  of  loaf  sugar  and  1-4  pint  of  white  wine  ;  simmer  for  a  1-4  of 
an  hour. 

CURRANT  WATER. — Press  1-2  pint  of  raspberries  and  i  quart  of 
currants  into  a  basin,  add  2  quarts  of  water  and  filter  through  a  flan- 
nel bag,  at  the  bottom  of  which  is  a  pulp  of  brown  paper ;  add  i 
quart  of  warm  syrup  of  sugar  to  the  filtered  juice.  Mix,  and  pour 
the  currant  water  into  glass  bottles. 

GINGER  POP. — 10  quarts  of  water,  i  pound  of  coarse  brown 
sugar  (but  the  loaf  is  better,  and  more  wholesome),  2  ounces  of 
ground  white  ginger,  i  quart  of  ale  or  very  strong  beer. 


REFRESHING  DRINKS.  409 

GINGER  POP  No.  2. — Take  3-4  pound  ginger  root,  crushed ; 
2  3-4  pounds  white  sugar,  1-2  ounce  tartaric  acid,  5  1-2  gallons 
soft  water,  whites  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten,  i  gill  of  yeast,  i  small 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  oil;  boil  the  ginger  root  for  12  hours  in  i 
gallon  of  the  water,  strain  off  and  pour  the  oil  in  while  hot ;  mix. 
Make  over  night;  in  the  morning  skim  and  bottle,  keeping  out 
the  sediment. 

IMPERIAL  POP. — To  i  gallon  of  water  add  i  1-2  pounds  of  white 
sugar,  i  ounce  ginger,  juice  of  i  lemon,  3  ounces  cream  tartar; 
work  it  with  yeast  and  bottle  it  as  ginger  beer,  to  which  it  is  similar, 
except  it  is  more  acid  and  more  cooling  in  its  medicinal  properties. 

SHERBET  (domestic.) — Boil  in  3  pints  of  water  6  or  8  stalks  of 
green  rhubarb,  4  ounces  of  raisins  or  figs ;  when  the  water  has 
boiled  1-2  hour  strain  it,  and  mix  with  it  i  teaspoonful  of  rose- 
water  and  orange  or  lemon  syrup  to  taste.  Drink  cold. 

LEMON  SHERBET  (King's  cup.) — Two  lemons  sliced,  2  ounces  of 
sugar,  i  pint  boiling  water;  very  fine. 

CALIFORNIA  SHERBET. — Rub  the  yellow  rind  of  3  lemons  with 
lumps  of  sugar,  squeeze  the  juice  of  6  carefully  out,  remove  the 
seeds,  put  the  sugar  and  juice  with  i  pound  of  nice  white  sugar 
in  1-2  gallon  of  water.  Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  5  eggs 
and  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  sugar ;  in  them  then  slowly 
stir  in  the  lemonade  and  put  it  immediately  in  a  patent  freezer  with 
salt  and  ice  around  the  freezer  and  turn  it  until  frozen  as  hard  as  you 
wish  it.  This  is  very  delicate,  and  resembles  a  dish  of  snow.  Plain 
freezers  will  not  do  for  this,  as  it  must  be  constantly  stirred  to  keep 
it  well  mixed. 

SHRUB  (West  India.) — Make  a  syrup  of  12  pounds  of  the  best 
moist  sugar,  to  which  add  3  quarts  of  lime  juice  and  9  quarts  of 
rum,  mixing  them  well  together  and  fining  the  liquid  with  isinglass 
in  the  same  manner  as  wine.  A  few  pints  of  brandy  or  less  rum 
is  a  great  improvement. 

SHERBET. — Pare  12  good,  ripe  oranges  and  4  large,  ripe  lemons 
very  thin,  boil  4  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  half  gallon  of  water  ;  mix 
together  the  boiling  syrup,  the  rind  of  the  fruit,  the  juice  and  10  pints 
more  of  water ;  strain,  bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

WATERMELON  SHERBET.  A  Bengal  recipe. — Cut  the  melon  into 
halves,  let  the  pulp  be  worked  and  mashed  with  a  spoon  until  it 
assumes  the  consistency  of  thin  mush,  then  put  in  as  much  pounded 
white  candy  or  sugar  as  may  suit  your  taste  ;  a  wineglassful  of  fresh 
rose-water  and  2  wineglasses  of  sherry.  Strain  and  pour  the  liquor 
into  a  jug  and  fill  your  tumblers  at  pleasure.  It  is  an  agreeable 
summer  drink. 

BLACKBERRY  SHERBET. — Take  2  pounds  of  the  smaller  blackberry 


410  REFRESHING  DRINKS. 

roots  and  2  gallons  of  water,  and  boil  them  down  to  3  quarts,  add  5 
pounds  of  crushed  sugar  and  i  pint  of  best  brandy.  To  60  gallons 
thus  prepared  add  3  pounds  of  allspice  and  2  pounds  each  of  cassia 
and  cloves.  The  smaller  roots  are  much  better  than  the  larger  ones 
on  account  of  their  possessing  superior  astringent  qualities. 

A  VERY  PLEASANT   DRINK  WHEN    FEVERISH    OR  IN  HOT  WEATHER. 

— Mash  i  pint  of  raspberries,  strawberries,  cherries  or  mulberries  in 
the  juice  of  2  lemons,  a  pint  of  water  and  as  much  syrup  as  will 
sweeten  it  to  taste ;  strain  through  a  lawn  sieve. 

A  DELIGHTFUL  AND  REFRESHING  BEVERAGE. — Slice'and  put  into 
a  pitcher  2  rich,  juicy  oranges  and  i  lemon  with  2  ozs.  of  sugar 
candy,  then  pour  over  them  2  pints  of  boiling  water ;  with  a  silver 
spoon  stir  the  mixture  now  and  then  till  cold.  This  drink  for  patients 
is  often  directed  by  the  physician.  It  is  always  good  in  warm 
weather,  and  is  excellent  for  persons  in  health. 

CHERRY  DRINK. — Remove  the  stems  and  stones  from  i  pound  of 
plump,  ripe,  juicy  cherries,  then  put  them  in  a  stew  pan  containing 
a  pint  of  boiling  syrup,  and  boil  them  rapidly  for  10  or  12  minutes  ; 
remove  them  from  the  fire  and  pour  in  a  gill  of  sherry  or  Madeira 
wine  and  2  pints  of  boiling  water,  then  pour  the  whole  into  a  pitcher 
and  set  a  saucer  or  cup  over  it ;  when  cool,  strain  it,  and  it  is  then 
ready  for  use.  If  not  fancied,  the  wine  need  not  be  added. 

NOTE — Mulberries  may  be  substituted  for  the  cherries,  u?ing  a 
little  lemon  juice  with  the  mulberries. 

RUSSIAN  HARVEST  DRINK. — Cold  black  tea  with  sugar  and  lemon 
juice  enough  to  make  it  pleasant.  It  is  as  safe  as  invigorating.  It 
should  be  of  the  same  temperature  as  the  atmosphere.  It  at  once 
invigorates  and  gives  tone  to  the  system.  The  acid  increases  the 
action  of  the  liver  and  cools  the  system,  while  the  sugar  nourishes 
and  supports  the  body. 

TAR  WATER. — i  gallon  of  water,  2  pints  of  pure  tar.  Stir  with  a 
wooden  rod  till  thoroughly  mixed,  then  strain  and  keep  the  liquid  in 
well-stopped  bottles.  It  is  frequently  used  as  a  remedy  for  bron- 
chitis. It  acts  as  a  stimulant,  raising  the  pulse,  increasing  the  dis- 
charge of  the  skin  and  kidneys.  Take  from  i  to  2  pints  daily. 

WEST  INDIAN  SAUGAREE  — Dissolve  4  ounces  of  sugar  in  a  large 
wineglass  of  lime  juice,  grate  into  it  1-2  nutmeg;  add  i  quart  of 
cold  water,  a  little  Madeira  and  1-4  pint  of  brandy.  A  lump  of  ice 
renders  the  saugaree  perfect. 

MINT  JULEP.— Take  3  or  4  young  sprigs  of  mint,  fresh  gathered, 
and  put  in  a  tumbler,  fill  it  1-2  with  sherry,  put  some  pounded  ice 
in  a  second  tumbler  and  pour  the  mint  and  sherry  over  it,  rapidly 
transferring  the  liquor  several  times  from  one  tumbler  to  another  ; 
finally  place  the  tumbler  a  minute  on  ice  till  the  frozen  particles 
form  over  the  top. 


REFRESHING  DRINKS.  4! I 

CALIFORNIA  LEMON  WATER. — To  prepare  this  delightful  drink,  3 
pieces  of  lemon  thinly  pared  into  a  closely  covered  vessel  or  teapot, 
with  a  very  small  piece  of  the  rind,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  spiced 
syrup,  put  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  be  stopped  closely 
for  2  hours. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR  AND  WATER. — No  draught  is  more  agreea- 
ble to  a  feverish  patient  than  a  dessert  spoonful  of  raspberry  vine- 
gar mixed  in  a  tumblerful  of  cold  water.  It  should  never  stand  in 
any  metal  or  glazed  vessel,  for  the  acid  would  act  upon  their  surfaces 
to  an  injurious  extent. 

CALIFORNIA  SODA  WATER. — Dissolve  a  small  teaspoon ful  of  "car- 
bonate of  soda  in  a  large  glass  containing  a  wine  glass  full  of  water. 
Squeeze  into  it  a  large  lemon  or  orange,  and  drink  it  off  while  it 
hisses ;  if  fresh  fruit  cannot  be  had,  obtain  from  the  druggist  citric 
or  tartaric  acid,  which  answer  the  purpose  Dissolve  in  another 
glass  1-2  teaspoonful  of  either  of  these  acids,  pour  into  the  soda 
and  drink  off  instantly.  It  is  a  very  proper  drink  in  the  measles, 
but  the  quantity  must  be  reduced  according  to  the  age  of  the  child. 

TOAST  WATER. — Toast  very  brown  on  both  sides  thin  slices  of 
wheat  bread,  but  do  not  let  them  burn.  Put  the  toast  in  a  pitcher 
that  has  holes  at  the  spout  through  which  to  strain  it  (if  you  have 
one)  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it  as  much  as  you  need.  Cover 
the  pitcher  and  let  it  stand  to  cool,  then  pour  it  off  into  a  bottle. 
Made  in  this  way  toast  water  is  very  wholesome  and  refreshing,  even 
at  table  by  persons  in  health  as  well  as  invalids. 

PLEASANT  DRINK  IN  HOT  WEATHER. — Take  2  Ib.  of  white  sugar, 
and  the  juice  of  1-2  lemon,  2  oz.  tartaric  acid,  3  pints  of  water; 
boil  together  five  minutes ;  when  cold,  add  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  well 
beaten,  with  1-2  cup  of  flour,  and  1-2  oz.  of  wintergreen;  bottle  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place.  Take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  this  syiup  for  a 
tumbler  of  water,  and  1-4  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

OXYRNKL  SIMPLE.  (Dr.  M.) — 2  Ibs.  clear  honey,  2  pints  vinegar, 
pour  into  a  glass  vessel  or  wide-mouthed  bottle,  set  in  a  vessel  of 
cold  water,  heat  gently  and  simmer  till  as  thick  as  syrup.  When 
used  add  a  teaspoonful  to  a  glass  of  water. 

A  NICE  DRINK — May  be  formed  of  it  with  the  addition  of  a  little 
sugar,  grated  nutmeg  and  enough  of  the  "plain  mass"  and  water  to 
suit  the  taste.  NOTE. — This  delicious  preparation  could  be  made 
in  this  slope,  where  fruits  of  the  plain  kind  are  so  superior  and  so 
abundant.  Every  housekeeper  should  have  it.  I  found  it  useful  in 
traveling. 

FOR  SUMMER  DRINK. — i  Ib.  of  red  currants,  bruised  with  some 
raspberries,  (or  1-2  the  quantity  dried  a  la  Alden,  and  softened  in  a 
very  little  cold  water)  1-2  Ib.  of  sugar  added  to  i  gallon  of  cold 


412  REFRESHING  DRINKS. 

water  siirred  well  and  allowed  to  settle,  the  juice  of  a  lerrfon.  Mul- 
berry the  same,  adding  a  little  lemon  peel. 

FIGS  AND  APPLE  BEVERAGE. — Have  2  quarts  of  water  boiling,  in- 
to which  throw  6  dry  figs  previously  opened,  and  2  apples  cut  into  6 
or  8  slices  each ;  let  the  whole  boil  together  20  minutes,  then  pour 
them  into  a  basin  to  cool ;  pass  through  a  seive,  drain  the  fig-a,  which 
will  be  good  to  eat  with  a  little  sugar. 

CURRANT  DRINK. — To  i  pint  of  fresh  gathered  and  picked  cur- 
rants add  i  pint  of  water;  let  them  boil  together  10  or  15  minutes, 
then  strain  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  add  a  few  raspberries  to  increase 
the  pleasant  flavor.  The  same  may  be  produced  in  winter  by  sim- 
mering 2  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly  in  1-2  pint  of  water. 

IMPERIAL  DRINK. — 1-4  Ib.  lump  sugar,  3  oz.  orange  or  lemon 
peel;  juice  of  i  lemon,  1-2  oz.  cream  tartar,  3  pints  of  boiling 
water.  Mix  all  together,  cover  the  vessel  till  cold,  then  pour  off  the 
clear  portion  for  use.  An  agreeable  drink  for  hot  weather  or  in 
fever. 

A  VERY  AGREEABLE  DRINK. — Pour  a  tablespoonful  of  good  cider 
vinegar  into  a  tumbler  of  fresh  cool  water,  and  sweeten  with  sugar, 
molasses  or  syrup  to  taste,  add  a  rasp  or  two  of  nutmeg.  Tama- 
rinds, fresh  currants  or  in  jelly,  or  scalded  cranberries,  make  excel- 
lent drinks.  Use  sugar  or  not,  as  may  be  agreeable. 

IN  MAKING  any  cooling  beverage  for  summer  use,  the  proportions 
need  not  be  adhered  to,  but  increased  or  diminished  to  suit  the 
taste.  Acidulated  drinks  are  very  agreeable,  and  invaluable  in  re- 
lieving thirst,  and  most  useful  for  their  anti-bilious  and  anti-scorbutic 
properties. 

LEMONADK. — Suitable  to  the  quantity  of  liquor  wanted,  pare  as 
thin  as  possible  any  number  of  lemons,  then  with  lumps  of  refined 
sugar  rub  the  surface,  to  extract  the  flavor;  put  the  saturated  sugar 
into  a  basin  and  squeeze  the  lemons  over  it.  Add  the  best  refined 
sugar  to  taste.  In  proportions  as  desired,  hot  water  and  a  little 
boiling  milk  may  be  added;  3  quarts  to  2  dozen  lemons  will  do, 
using  half  the  rind,  but  the  whole  of  the  juice.  When  well  mixed 
skim  the  liquor  and  run  it  through  a  linen  bag,  previously  wet  in  hot 
water. 

BARLEY  LEMONADE. — Put  a  half  pint  of  water  into  a  small  pan, 
then  into  the  water  put  4  oz.  of  sugar,  boil  into  a  thickish  syrup,  or 
ten  minutes,  then  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  or  one  Sicily  lime, 
with  a  fresh  rind  of  one  lemon,  then  boil  a  moment  longer,  then  add 
one-half  gallon  of  barley  water,  with  sugar  or  flavoring.  Boil  five 
minutes  longer,  then  strain  into  a  pitcher,  and  cover  over  with  a 
folded  paper  with  a  hole  in  the  middle  for  the  steam  to  pass  through. 
Let  cool,  then  drink  it.  N.  B.— If  bottled  closely,  it  will  be  good 
for  several  days. 


REFRESHING  DRINKS.  413 

PORTABLE  LEMONADE,  CONVENIENT  ON  VOYAGES  AND  TRAVELING 
IN  THE  COUNTRY. — Take  3  oz.  of  refined  sugar;  tartaric  acid  1-2  oz., 
essence  of  lemon  i  dram.  Pound  the  sugar  and  tartaric  acid  well 
in  a  smooth  mortar,  gradually  pouring  in  the  essence  upon  the  mix- 
ture. Mix  the  whole  very  well  and  divide  it  off  for  use  and  put  in 
12  separate  parcels;  take  one,  when  needed,  and  mix  with  a  tumbler 
of  water;  it  will  make  a  pleasant  and  refreshing  drink. 

LEMONADE  OR  ORANGEADE. — Squeeze  the  juice,  pour  boiling  wa- 
ter on  a  little  of  the  peel  and  cover  close.  Boil  water  and  sugar  to 
a  thin  syrup  and  strain  it.  When  all  are  cold,  mix  the  juice,  the  in- 
fusion, and  the  syrup  with  as  much  river  water  as  will  make  a  rich 
sherbet,  strain  through  a  flannel  or  linen  bag,  or  squeeze  the  juice 
and  strain  it. 

MOCK  LEMONADE — A  SUBSTITUTE. — 1-2  Ib.  sugar,  tartaric  acid  1-2 
oz.,  four  or  five  drops  on  the  sugar;  boiling  water  3  pints.  Let  it 
get  cold  and  bottle  tightly.  It  is  a  wholesome,  cooling  summer 
drink. 

ORGEAT. — Boil  a  quart  of  new  milk  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon, 
sweeten  to  taste  and  let  it  grow  cold ;  then  pour  in  it  by  degrees  3 
oz.  of  sweet  almonds,  and  20  of  bitter,  that  have  been  blanched 
and  beaten  to  a  paste,  with  a  little  water  to  prevent  oiling ;  boil  all 
together,  and  stir  till  cold,  then  add  1-2  glass  of  brandy. 

ORANGE  OR  LEMON  DRINKS. — Squeeze  the  juice  of  4  oranges  or 
lemons,  rinse  the  pulp  and  rind  in  boiling  water,  simmer  another  1-2 
pint  of  water,  with  10  lumps  of  sugar  till  thoroughly  dissolved  and 
mixed  ;  when  all  are  cold  mix  them  all  together,  strain  through  flan- 
nel or  muslin. 

ORANGEADE  AND  ARROW  ROOT. — Make  this  drink  as  you  would 
lemonade,  taking  the  whole  of  an  orange,  with  a  little  of  the  peel, 
sweetening  to  taste  with  sugar  candy,  adding  a  thickening  made  of 
one  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot  stirred  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  poured 
into  the  boiling  water,  when  you  put  in  the  juice  of  the  orange. 
The  arrowroot  is  a  great  improvement. 

ORANGEADE  FOR  INVALIDS. — Make  it  as  lemonade,  using  the  whole 
of  an  orange,  with  the  small  piece  of  the  rind,  sweeten  with  loaf 
sugar,  then  stir  a  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot  in  a  little  cold  water,  then 
pour  it  into  the  boiling  water  at  the  same  time  you  add  the  orange. 
The  arrowroot  is  a  great  improvement. 

COOLING  LEMONADE. — Split  2  moist  dried  figs  in  two,  then  drop 
them  into  2  pints  of  water  boiling  in  a  sauce  pan,  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  take  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  with  half  the  lemon  cut  in 
thin  slices,  put  into  the  pan  and  boil  a  minute  or  two  longer,  then 
pour  all  into  a  pitcher  and  cover  it  closely  till  cool,  then  strain  it  and 
add  a  small  spoonful  of  honey,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 


4.14 


REFRESHING  DRINKS. 


LEMONADE. — The  juice  of  lemon  4  oz.,  lemon  peel  one-half  oz., 
white  sugar  4  oz.,  boiling  water  three  pints;  let  stand  till  cold,  then 
strain,  a  little  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  may  be  added  ;  diluted  if  wished. 
Suit  the  taste  of  the*  patient.  Excellent  drink  for  the  kidneys. 

LEMONADE,  ITALIAN. — Pare  and  press  2  dozen  lemons,  pour  the 
juice  on  the  peels  and  let  it  remain  on  them  all  night;  in  the  morning 
add  2  Ib.  of  loaf  sugar,  i  quart  of  good  sherry,  and  3  quarts  of 
boiling  water.  Mix  well,  add  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  and  strain 
through  a  jelly  bag  till  clear. 

SOUR  SOP. — A  West  Indian  fruit  of  a  tree  of  the  same  as  the  cus- 
tard apple,  which  grows  in  the  West  Indies.  It  is  a  large  fruit,  often 
weighing  2  or  3  Ibs.,  the  pulp  of  which  is  white  and  succulent,  sweet 
with  an  agreeable  acidity.  It  is  pleasant  and  refreshing,  and  a  drink 
of  the  pulp  cut  up  in  ice  water  is  as  refreshing,  as  delicious,  and 
equal  if  not  superior  to  lemonade. 

FLAX  SEED  TEA. — Boil  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flax  seeds  in  3  pints  of 
water  till  reduced  to  i  pint,  then  strain  off.  It  may  be  sweetened 
with  honey  or  liquorice,  and  made  acid  with  vinegar  or  squeezing 
into  it  a  little  lemon  juice.  It  is  best  to  tie  the  seeds  up  in  a  bag, 
put  it  into  a  teapot,  add  boiling  water,  let  it  steep  by  a  fire  or  on  a 
stove  for  a  while  and  then  set  it  away  to  cool. 

VARIOUS  SORTS  OF  TEA. — Tea  made  of  balm,  mint,  sage  or  cow- 
slip is  often  found  refreshing.  Balm  tea  is  most  cooling,  mint  the 
most  soothing  to  the  bowels,  sage  or  marigold  the  most  reviving. 
and  cowslip  has  rather  a  composing  tendency.  To  have  them  nice, 
they  should  be  made  of  fresh  herbs  and  often. 

DR.  HUFFLANU'S  DRINK  FOR  FKVKB  PATIENTS,  OR  EXCESSIVE 
THIRST. — Boil  till  dissolved  in  3  quarts  of  water,  1-2  oz.  of  cream  of 
tartar.  Remove  from  the  fire,  then  add  a  sour  orange  sliced,  adding 
from  i  1-2  to  3  oz.  of  white  sugar,  according  to  the  taste  of  the  pa- 
tient ;  bottle  closely  and  keep  in  a  cool  dry  place.  It  is  a  most 
healthful  drink. 

DRINK  FOR  FEVER. — Boil  3  oz.  of  currants  and  2  oz.  of  raisins, 
carefully  stoned,  and  i  1-2  oz.  of  tamarinds  in  3  pints  of  water  till  it 
is  reduced  to  a  quart;  strain  it,  add  a  piece  of  lemon  peel  and  let  it 
stand  for  an  hour,  when  it  is  fit  for  use. 

FEVER  DRINK. — Very  nice. — Boil  together  2  oz.  stoned  raisins,  3 
oz.  cranberries,  i  1-2  oz.  of  tamarinds,  in  3  pints  of  water  till  re- 
duced to  2  pints.  Strain  and  add  a  piece  of  fresh  lemon  peel  and 
let  it  remain  for  30  minutes  then  take  it  out. 

FEVER  DRAUGHT.— Put  into  a  jar  a  few  sprigs  of  balm,  fennel  and 
sage  cleanly  washed.  Slice  the  pulp  of  a  lemon,  grate  in  a  little  of 
the  peel,  pour  over  it  3  pints  of  boiling  water,  and  cork  it  tight  for 
use. 


REFRESHING  DRINKS.  4! 5 

AN  AGREEABLE  EGYPTIAN  DRINK. — Made  of  tamarinds,  honey  and 
water,  proportioned  to  taste.  Good  (when  much  diluted  with  water) 
in  fevers. 

DRINK. — Grecian. — Made  by  expressing  the  juice  of  the  toma- 
toes, honey  and  a  small  portion  of  lime  or  lemon  juice;  some  water 
or  pure  vinegar ;  mix  ;  wholesome.  Proportioned  as  desired. 

LIME  WATER. — Make  the  lime  water  according  to  the  directions 
given,  then  mix  with  a  decoction  of  peruvian  barks.  A  most  valua- 
ble tonic,  frees  the  bowels  from  morbid  matter,  corrects  acids,  aids 
digestion,  strengthens  the  system;  good  for  hindering  affections  ofall 
kinds,  scrofula  and  the  whites  and  worms  ofall  kinds. 

NOURISHING  DRINK  FOR  FEVER  PATIENTS. — Three  or  4  teaspoons 
(even)  of  arrow-root  made  into  a  thin  paste  with  cold  water,  then 
pour  into  a  quart  vessel,  then  add  the  juice  of  1-2  lime  or  lemon. 
Stir  in  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  then  pour  over  boiling 
water  to  fill  the  bowl,  stirring  all  the  time.  Keep  covered  and  let 
the  patient  drink  freely. 

HIGH  BLACKBERRYROOT  TEA  OR  CoRDiAL.—Aunt  Nancy  Patterson, 
(colored.) — Make  a  strong  decoction  of  the  root  of  the  tall  blackber- 
ry and  loaf  sugar,  and  boil  down  to  a  thick  syrup  or  cordial,  then 
strain.  Dose:  a  small  wineglassful  3  times  a  day,  putting  1-8  of 
spirits  to  keep  it.  This  is  valuable  for  obstinate  diarrhea  or  dys- 
entery and  typhoid  fever,  commencing  at  first  with  only  a  teaspoon- 
ful  or  more. 

DRINK  FOR  AN  INVALID. — A  new  laid  egg  well  beaten;  a  cup  of 
hot  coffee  or  chocolate  poured  to  it,  stirring  it  well,  is  a  good  drink. 

BUTTERMILK.  —  If  made  of  sweet  cream,  is  a  delicious  and 
most  wholesome  food.  Those  who  can  relish  sour  buttermilk 
find  it  still  more  light.  Buttermilk,  if  not  very  sour,  is  also  as  good 
as  cream  to  eat  with  fruit  sweetened  with  white  sugar  and  mixed 
with  a  very  little  milk.  It  likewise  does  equally  well  for  cakes  and 
rice  puddings,  and  of  course  it  is  economical  to  churn  before  the 
cream  is  too  stale,  otherwise  it  is  not-  fit  for  anything  but  to  feed 
pigs. 

DR.  BOCEHAAVE'S  SWEET  BUTTERMILK. — Turn  the  milk  of  i  cow 
into  a  small  churn,  in  about  10  minutes  begin  churning,  and  continue 
till  the  flakes  of  the  butter  swim  aboutthickand  the  discharged  milk 
appears  thin  and  blue.  Strain  it  through  a  sieve  and  drink  it  as 
frequently  as  possible.  It  is  good  for  consumptive  cases,  but  in 
order  to  its  producing  decidedly  good  effects  should  be  the  only 
drink  of  the  patient,  and  the  food  taken  with  it  should  be  biscuits, 
rusks,  and  ripe  and  dried  fruits,  of  various  kinds,  when  a  decline  is 
apprehended.  Baked  and  dried  fruits,  raisins  in  particular,  make  an 
excellent  supper  for  invalids  with  biscuits  or  common  cake. 


416  REFRESHING  DRINKS. 

BUTTERMILK,  ITS  PROPERTIES. — Cooly. — If  the  butter  be  prepared 
from  sweet  cream,  the  buttermilk  left  from  the  operation  is  not  only 
very  delicious,  but  exceedingly  wholesome  and  nutritious. 

CARACOA. — Take  i  pint  of  brandy  and  put  into  it  the  rind  of  6 
oranges  pared  as  thin  as  possible.  Let  this  stand  for  3  days,  stirring 
it  very  often,  then  add  the  juice  of  the  oranges,  and  2  quarts  of 
brandy,  5  Ibs.  of  loaf  sugar  powdered,  and  i  Ib,  of  sugar  candy 
powdered;  stir  it  well  for  1-2  hour  and  let  it  remain  2  days  longer, 
stirring  it  during  the  time.  Then  strain  and  bottle  it.  It  should  not 
be  opened  for  six  months — the  longer  it  is  kept,  the  better. 

To  MAKE  A  SHERRY  COBLER. — Reduce  the  ice  into  snowflakes  by 
means  of  an  ice-plane,  or  pound  a  quantity  of  ice  quite  fine  in  a 
coarse  cloth  by  beating  it  with  a  mallet,  half  fill  a  large  tumbler  with 
this  pounded  ice,  add  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
the  rind  of  1-2  lemon  and  one  or  two  glasses  of  sherry.  Stir  them 
well  together  and  drink  through  a  small  tube  or  straw. 

CHERRY  BOUNCE. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Upshur. — Fill  your  jug  with  cher- 
ries, (the  May  Duke  are  the  best)  sweeten  your  rum  to  taste;  allow  i 
Ib.  of  sugar  to  i  gal.  rum;  pour  into  the  jug,  or  stone  pot,  the  rum, 
and  let  it  remain  two  months  on  the  fruit,  then  pour  it  off  and  bot- 
tle it. 

PEACH  SPONGAGE. —  Proportions:  5  gills  of  syrup  at  38  degrees, 
5  gills  of  pared  raw  peaches,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  maraschino  and  i 
gill  of  whites  of  eggs  whipped.  Place  the  peaches  in  a  basin,  dilute 
them  with  the  white  of  eggs  and  the  syrup,  pass  the  preparation 
through  a  tammy,  let  freeze.  Last  of  all,  introduce  into  it  the  ma- 
rachino,  mixed  with  a  little  syrup  by  degrees  only. 

MEDICATED  OR  SPICED  WINE. — In  a  mortar  beat  separately  1-4 
ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  12  blades  of  mace,  2  nutmegs  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  coriander  seeds.  Mix  them  together  and  put  them  into 
a  jar  containing  a  quart  of  the  best  port  wine.  Add  the  rind  and 
the  juice  of  4  large  California  lemons,  mixed  with  1-2  Ib.  of  pow- 
dered loaf  sugar.  Cover  the  vessel  closely,  and  let  it  steep  a  week 
or  more,  then  strain  the  liquid  through  a  linen  bag  and  bottle  it. 

CALIFORNIA  SPICED  WINE. — Infuse  for  a  few  hours  in  about  3 
quarts  of  white  wine  i  1-2  Ib.  of  loaf  sugar,  i  oz.  cinnamon,  3  or  4 
drops  of  sweet  marjoram  or  sage,  and  a  little  white  pepper,  all  beaten 
in  a  mortar.  Run  the  liquor  through  a'  filtering  bag  and  add  the 
juice  of  a  large,  ripe  and  juicy  lemon;  warm  it  moderately  over  the 
fire,  pour  it  again  on  the  spices,  and  when  it  has  stood  3  or  4  days, 
strain  off  and  bottle  for  use.  If  wanted  to  be  red,  port  wine  may 
be  used,  or  the  liquor  colored  with  the  juice  of  cider,  or  mulberries, 
cochineal,  &c. 

COMMON  PUNCH. — Take  a  teaspoonful  of  the  acid  salt  of  lemons, 


REFRESHING  DRINKS.  417 

1-4  lb.  of  sugar,  i  quart  of  boiling  water,  1-2  pint  of  brandy  and  a 
small  piece  of  lemon  peel  if  agreeable,  or  a  very  little  of  the  essence 
of  lemon. 

PUNCH  A  LA  ROMAINE. — i  quart  of  clearest  spring  water,  5  Ibs.  of 
the  best  lump  sugar,  the  juice  of  8  oranges  and  6  lemons ;  put  all 
together  into  a  stew  pan  and  simmer  till  well  clarified ;  when  cold, 
put  into  an  ice  pail,  and  when  well  frozen  add  the  whole  of  6  new 
laid  eggs,  whisked  to  a  froth.  Beat  the  whole  well  together,  and 
just  before  it  is  served,  add  four  teaspoonfuls  of  the  best  Jamaica 
rum.  This  will  make  a  sufficient  quantity  for  ten  persons.  The 
juice  of  the  oranges  and  lemons  should  be  strained  through  a  fine 
seive.  It  is  an  improvement  if  the  beaten  eggs  are  added  before  it 
is  iced. 

EGG  NOG — To  make  a  gallon  of  egg  nog,  take  i  dozen  eggs,  break 
them  and  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately  ;  after  the  yolks  have 
been  beaten  fifteen  minutes,  put  12  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  white 
sugar  in  them  and  beat  or  whisk  them  until  they  rise  and  are  thick. 
The  great  secret  of  having  it  nice  is  to  beat  or  whisk  the  yolks  thick, 
whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  1-2  pint  of  brandy  in  the  yolks,  and 
when  well  mixed,  stir  the  whites  slowly  in.  Have  milk  in  a  glass 
pitcher  to  be  added  if  preferred. 

EGG  WINE. — Mix  with  a  spoonful  of  cold  water  a  beaten  egg;  set 
on  the  fire,  in  a  pan,  i  glass  of  white  wine,  1-2  glass  of  water,  sugar 
and  nutmeg  to  taste.  When  it  boils,  pour  a  little  of  it  on  the  egg 
by  degrees  till  the  whole  is  in,  stirring  it  well,  then  return  the  whole 
into  the  stew  pan,  put  it  on  a  gentle  fire,  stir  it  one  way  for  not  more 
than  a  minute,  for  if  it  boil  or  the  egg  be  stale  it  will  curdle.  Serve 
with  toast.  Egg  wine  may  be  made  as  above,  without  warming  the 
egg,  and  it  is  then  lighter  on  the  stomach,  though  not  so  pleasant  to 
the  taste. 

LEMON  WINE  OR  CITRON  WATER. — Take  the  parings  of  12  large, 
thick  rinded  lemons  when  in  full  perfection  ;  that  is,  when  not  over 
ripe,  cut  very  thin  and  put  them  into  2  quarts  of  brandy  (and  in 
that  proportion  for  any  quantity),  and  add  i  quart  of  good  spring 
water  and  6  or  8  ounces  of  fine  loaf  sugar,  then  put  into  it  i  gill 
of  boiled  skimmed  milk,  which  will  cause  it  to  curdle  immedi- 
ately. Stir  it  well  and  cover  it  up  close,  and  at  the  end  of  3  or 
4  days  you  will  find  a  beautiful  lemon-colored  transparent  liquor, 
which  must  be  carefully  poured  from  the  sediment  or  drawn  off 
by  a  crane  and  then  bottled.  It  is  good  and  fit  to  drink  at  once, 
but  much  better  if  kept  for  some  time.  It  can  be  diluted  with 
water. 

NOTE — It  is  nice  to  drink  as  a  cordial.  Mixed  with  water  it  is 
like  lemonade,  and  to  put  in  artificial  wine  to  give  them  an  agreea- 
ble flavor. 

-i. 


REFRESHING  DRINKS. 

ORANGE  WINE.— This  delightful  beverage  is  prepared  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner :  Take  1 2  oranges  and  pare  them  very  thin;  strain 
the  juice  so  that  none  of  the  seeds  go  in  with  it,  then  take  6  pounds 
of  loaf  sugar  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  put  these  into  3 
gallons  of  clear  water  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  1-2  hour;  as  the 
scum  rises  take  it  off,  then  add  the  orange  juice  and  rind ;  add  3  or 
4  spoonfuls  of  good  yeast  and  let  it  stand  for  3  or  4  days,  then  draw 
it  off  and  add  i  quart  of  rectified  spirits  and  bottle.  The  corks 
should  be  secured  by  wire  or  twine  in  the  bottle. 

PEACH  LIQUEUR  OR  WINE. — Take  of  the  best  kind  of  ripe,  juicy 
free-stone  peaches  (8  pounds),  mash  them  and  put  them  into 
2  gallons  of  soft,  clear  water ;  add  5  pounds  of  broken  loaf  sugar. 
Crack  the  stones  and  take  the  kernels,  crack  and  lay  them  at 
at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  which  should  be  clean  and  dry.  With 
the  dissolved  sugar  put  the  peaches  into  a  preserving  kettle,  boil 
and  skim  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise,  then  strain  through  a  large 
sieve  into  the  tub  that  has  the  kernels  in  the  bottom ;  mix  well  and 
cover  closely  till  cool.  Then  add  a  piece  of  toasted  bread  and  cover 
the  whole  with  good,  fresh  yeast.  Let  it  work,  and  when  it  ceases 
hissing  strain  through  a  linen  bag  into  a  keg.  Then  add  a  bottle  of 
sweet  Malaga  wine.  At  the  end  of  6  months  draw  offa  little  to  see  if 
it  is  clear;  if  not,  take  out  a  pint  of  the  wine,  mix  with  an  ounce  of 
powdered  gum  arabic,  let  it  dissolve  gently  over  a  slow  fire  and  add 
to  it  i  ounce  of  pounded  chalk.  When  dissolved,  put  the  pint  of 
wine  back  in  the  keg ;  stir  it  in  lightly  with  a  clean  stick  ;  take  care 
not  to  let  the  stick  touch  the  bottom,  as  that  would  stir  up  the  sedi- 
ment. Let  it  stand  for  3  days,  then  pour  off  and  bottle  tightly.  In 
6  months  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

BALM  WINE. — Boil  gently  for  2  hours  40  pounds  of  white  sugar 
in  9  gallons  of  water;  stir  it  well  and  pour  it  in  a  vessel  to  cool;  take 
2  1-2  pounds  of  balm  leaves,  wash  them  well,  then  bruise  them  and 
put  them  in  a  barrel;  stirring  it  well  together,  and  let  it  stand  for . 
24  hours,  stirring  it  often,  then  close  it  up  and  let  it  stand  for  6 
weeks,  then  rack  it  off  into  bottles,  putting  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar 
into  each  bottle  and  cork  closely.  It  will  be  better  to  keep  it  a  year 
or  longer. 

COW-SLIP  WINE.— To  every  gallon  of  water  allow  3  Ibs.  of  lump 
sugar,  the  rind  of  i  California  lemon  and  the  juice  of  2,  the  rind 
and  juice  of  i  large  California  orange,  i  gallon  of  cow-slip  pips. 
To  every  4  1-2  gallons  of  wine  allow  i  bottle  of  brandy;  boil  the 
water  and  sugar  together  for  1-2  hour,  carefully  removing  the  scum 
as  it  rises ;  pour  this  boiling  liquor  on  the  orange  and  lemon  rinds 
and  the  juice,  which  should  be  strained  when  lukewarm:  add  the 
cow-slip  pips  or  flowers  picked  from  the  stalks  and  seeds,  and  to  9 


REFRESHING  DRINKS. 

gallons  of  wine  3  tablespoonfuls  of  good  fresh  brewer's  yeast ;  let 
it  ferment  3  or  4  days,  then  put  all  together  in  a  cask  with  the 
brandy,  and  let  it  remain  for  2  months,  when  bottle  it  off  for  use. 

HOT  PUNCH. — 1-2  pint  of  rum,  1-2  pint  of  brandy,  1-4  lb.  of 
sugar,  i  large  lemon,  1-2  teaspoonful  pounded  nutmeg,  i  pint  boil- 
ing water;  rub  the  sugar  over  the  rind  of  the  lemon  until  it  has  ab- 
sorbed all  the  yellow  part,  then  put  the  sugar  into  a  punch  bowl, 
add  the  lemon  juice  (free  from  pulp),  and  mix  these  two  ingredients 
together  well ;  pour  over  them  the  boiling  water,  stir  well  together, 
add  the  rum,  brandy  and  nutmeg;  mix  thoroughly  and  the  punch 
will  be  ready  to  serve.  It  is  very  important  in  making  good  punch 
that  all  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  incorporated,  and  to  insure 
success,  the  process  of  mixing  must  be  diligently  attended  to. 

SAN  FRANCISCO  PUNCH. — Pare  six  California  lemons,  3  oranges 
(large,  full  and  ripe)  very  thin.  Squeeze  the  juice  into  a  large  tea- 
pot, put  to  it  2  quarts  of  brandy,  i  quart  of  white  wine,  i  of  milk, 
and  i  1-4  Ibs.  of  sugar.  Let  it  be  mixed,  and  then  covered  for  24 
hours;  strain  through  a  flannel  bag  till  clear,  then  bottle  it. 

PUNCH. — Take  2  large,  ripe,  juicy,  rough-skinned  lemons  and  some 
large  lumps  of  double  refined  sugar.  Rub  the  sugar  over  the  lemons 
till  it  has  absorbed  all  the  yellow  part  of  the  skin.  Then  put  into 
the  bowl  these  lumps  and  as  much  more  as  the  juice  of  the  lemon 
as  you  may  suppose  it  requires,  for  no  certain  weight  can  be  men- 
tioned, as  the  acidity  of  a  lemon  cannot  be  known  till  tried,  and 
therefore  this  must  be  determined  by  the  taste.  Then  squeeze  the 
lemon  juice  upon  the  sugar  and  with  a  squeezer  press  the  sug.ir  and 
the  juice  particularly  well  together,  for  a  great  deal  of  the  richness 
and  fine  flavor  of  the  punch  depends  on  this  rubbing  and  mixing 
process  being  thoroughly  performed.  Then  mix  this  up  very  well 
with  boiling  water  (soft  water  preferred)  till  the  whole  is  rather  cool. 
When  this  mixture,  which  is  now  called  sherbet,  is  to  your  taste,  take 
equal  quantities  of  brandy  and  rum  and  put  them  to  it,  mixing  the 
whole  well  together  again.  The  quantity  of  liquor  must  be  accord- 
ing to  your  taste.  2  good  lemons  are  generally  enough  to  make  4 
pints. 

AROMATIC  TINCTURE. — Take  i  oz.  of  bruised  ginger,  i  oz.  of 
bruised  cinnamon,  i  oz.  seeds  of  the  lesser  cardamon,  2  drams  of 
black  pepper,  and  i  quart  of  spirits.  Let  these  steep  for  15  days, 
Keep  it  in  a  warm  place  and  strain  for  use.  2  or  3  teaspoonfuls  may 
be  taken  in  a  little  sugared  water,  or  in  wine  with  or  without  a  little 
water.  This  tincture  is  a  cordial,  and,  in  cases  of  indigestion  and 
longer,  is  considered  a  restorative. 

NEGUS. — A  pleasant  drink,  called  after  Col.  Negus,  the  inventor. 
To  every  pint  of  port  wine  allow  i  quart  of  boiling  water,  1-4  lb.  of 


WINES. 

sugar,  i  lemon  and  grated  nutmeg  to  taste.  This  beverage  is  more 
usually  drank  at  children's  parties  than  at  any  other;  the  wine  need 
not  be  very  old  or  expensive  for  the  purpose,  a  new,  fruity  wine  an- 
swering very  well  for  it.  Add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice  with  the 
grated  nutmeg,  pour  it  over  the  boiling  water,  cover  the  jug,  and, 
when  the  beverage  has  cooled  a  little,  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  Negus 
may  also  be  made  of  sherry  or  any  other  sweet  white  wine,  but  it  is 
more  usually  made  of  port  wine  than  any  other  beverage.  One  pint 
of  wine  with  the  other  ingredients  in  proportion,  will  be  enough  fora 
party  of  9  or  10  children. 

BUTTERED  TODDY.  —Is  strong  rum  and  water,  sweetened  with 
honey,  enriched  with  a  lump  of  fresh  butter,  and  flavored  with  nut- 
meg and  lemon  juice.  It  is  much  in  favor  with  naval  gentlemen. 

EGG  FLIP. — Keep  grated  ginger  and  nutmeg,  with  a  little  fine 
dried  lemon  peel,  rubbed  together  in  a  mortar.  To  make  a  quart  of 
flip,  put  the  ale  on  the  fire  to  warm  and  beat  up  3  or  4  oz.  of  moist 
sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg  or  ginger  and  a  quartern  of 
good  old  rum  or  brandy.  When  the  egg  is  near  to  boil,  put  it  into 
one  pitcher,  and  the  rum  and  eggs,  etc.,  into  another.  Turn  it  from 
one  pitcher  to  another  till  it  is  as  smooth  as  cream. 

BUTTERMILK — ITS  GREAT  VALUE. — It  will  cure  one  without  crav- 
ings for  stimulants,  if  persisted  in  its  use,  When  the  appetite  calls 
for  any  kind  of  spirits  drink  a  tumbler  of  buttermilk  and  the  stom- 
ach will  be  satisfied  and  at  the  same  time  both  benefited  and  strength- 
ened, and  the  desire  for  drink  weakened.  It  will  effectually  cure  a 
sour  stomach.  It  supplies  more  largely  than  any  other  drink  or 
food  known,  the  lactic  acid  which  is  needed  by  many  persons.  It 
is  the  prevention  of  valvular  ossifications  of  the  valves  of  the  heart, 
of  which  so  many  persons  die  in  this  country,  especially  old  persons. 
It  prevents  the  so-called  flutterings  and  palpitations  of  the  heart, 
dyspeptic  stomachs,  unpleasant  feelings— all  of  which  have  their  seat 
in  the  stomach,  melancholy,  the  blues,  &c.,  and  which  the  lactic 
acid  prevents,  if  buttermilk  is  drank  often  and  freely. 

WINES. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE.  (S.  C.) — Allow  4  Ibs.  of  blackberries  to  i  gal. 
of  water,  stir  frequently  and  let  the  mixture  stand  for  72  hours,  or  3 
days,  then  strain  through  a  sieve  and  to  each  gallon  of  the  liquor  put 
3  Ibs.  of  sugar.  Let  it  stand  3  more  days,  stirring  and  skimming 
often,  then  put  it  into  a  cask  and  leave  the  bunghole  open  for  14  days. 
To  every  9  gallons  put  i  quart  of  the  best  brandy  and  fasten  down 
the  bung.  If  it  does  not  clear,  stir  in  a  solution  of  isinglass.  Cur- 
rant, raspberry  and  sherry  wines  may  also  be  made  from  this  recipe. 


WINES  42 I 

GEORGIA  BLACKBERRY  WINE. — Measure  the  berries  and  bruise 
them.  For  every  gallon  allow  i  quart  of  boiling  water.  Let  the 
mixture  stand  24  hours,  stirring  occasionally,  then  strain  off  the 
liquor  into  a  cask.  For  every  gallon  add  2  Ibs.  of  sugar  ;  cork  tight 
and  let  it  stand  till  the  following  October. 

A  GEORGIA  RECIPE,  which  has  succeeded  well  in  California  for  the 
making  of  blackberry,  raspberry,  strawberry  and  rhubarb  wines,  and 
which  I  obtained  from  a  gentleman  who  has  succeeded  well  in  that 
business.  To  i  gallon  of  water  add  3  Ibs.  of  the  berries,  mash  them 
with  the  hand,  let  them  stand  3  days,  press  out,  and  to  every  gallon 
of  juice  add  3  pounds  of  common  brown  sugar.  Place  in  a  cask  to 
ferment,  after  which  bung  tightly. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE.  (Mrs.  Jennie  Steele,  Cotton  Gin,  Texas.) — To 
3  gallons  of  juice  add  i  gallon  of  water,  3  Ibs.  of  sugar  to  the  gallon, 
mash  the  berries  and  let  them  stand  24  hours,  then  squeeze  out  the 
juice  through  a  flannel  bag,  then  add  the  water  to  the  juice  and  also 
the  sugar. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE. — To  i  gallon  of  juice  pressed  from  the  fruit, 
add  3  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  and  i  pint  of  water,  let  it  ferment  in  a  jug 
or  cask,  then  pour  off,  bottle  and  seal.  In  6  months  it  will  be  fit  for 
use. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE.  (D.  C.) — Allow  to  every  gallon  of  mashed 
berries  i  quart  of  boiling  water,  let  it  stand  a  day  and  night,  then 
strain  and  add  3  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  to  every  gallon  of  juice.  Let 
it  stand  3  or  4  weeks  with  the  bung  laid  on  loosely,  till  it  is  done 
fermenting,  then  stop  it  tightly  and  set  it  away  for  some  months ; 
then  bottle  it  closely. 

GOOSEBERRY  WINE. — Take  4  1-2  gallons  of  water  and  5  gallons  of 
gooseberries.  Mix  6  Ibs.  of  sugar,  4  Ibs.  of  honey,  i  oz.  of  white 
tartar,  i  oz.  of  dry  orange  and  lemon  peel,  or  2  oz.  of  fresh  peel ; 
add  1-2  gallon  of  light  brandy,  and  you  have  9  gallons  of  nice  wine. 
Currant  wine  may  be  made  in  the  same  way.  It  is  good  in  6  months. 

GOOSEBERRY  WINE  IN  IMITATION  OF  CHAMPAGNE, — To  every  3  Ibs. 
of  ripe  gooseberries  put  a  pint  of  clear  spring  water,  first  bruise  your 
fruit  with  your  hands  in  a  tub  and  then  put  the  water  to  them,  stir 
them  very  well  and  let  them  stand  a  whole  day,  then  strain  them  off, 
and  to  every  pound  of  gooseberries  put  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  pound 
of  dissolved  sugar  and  let  it  stand  for  24  hours  more,  then  skim  off 
the  froth  and  put  the  liquor  into  a  clean  vessel  and  the  scum  into  a 
flannel  bag,  and  what  drains  from  it,  into  the  vessel ;  let  it  work  2  or 
3  days  before  you  stop  it  up,  and  if  it  be  not  clear  when  you  draw 
into  bottles,  let  it  stand  in  the  bottles  for  some  time,  then  draw  it  off 
into  other  bottles.  Do  not  tap  it  too  low  when  drawn  from  the 
casks.  Experience  and  fancy  may  suggest  other  advantages  and 
varieties  in  the  way  of  making  gooseberry  wines. 


422 


WINES. 


WINE,  TO  COOL  WITHOUT  ICE. — Dip  a  piere  of  linen  into  water 
and  wrap  it  around  the  bottle,  and  place  it  in  a  draught. 

GREEN  CURRANT  WINE. — Strip  from  the  stems  full  green  ci.rr.u!ts 
before  they  begin  to  turn,  weigh  them  and  allow  i  gallon  of  soft 
water  to  3  Ibs.  of  the  fruit ;  mash  and  treat  them  as  in  the  re- 
cipe for  effervescing  gooseberry  wine.  Use  instead  of  loaf  sugar,  light 
colored  brown  sugar.  Let  the  juice  or  wine  remain  in  the  cask,  and 
as  soon  as  the  fermentation  ceases, -bung  the  cask  tightly,  and  in  6 
months  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

CHERRY  WINE.  Take  not  over  ripe  Marillo  cherries  picked  off 
from  their  stems,  mash  them  in  a  mortar  or  vessel  to  remove  the 
pulp  without  bruising  the  stones,  and  suffer  the  mass  to  stand  24 
hours  ;  strain  through  a  coarse  hair  sieve  and  to  every  3  gallons  add 
8  or  9  pounds  of  lump  sugar,  put  the  mixture  in  a  cask  and  suffer  it 
to  ferment,  and  pour  the  wine  from  its  lees  as  soon  as  i:  becomes 
clear.  Some  manufacturers  crack  the  stones  and  put  them  with  the 
kernels  in  muslin  bags  in  the  casks  during  the  fermentation  of  the 
wine,  which  gives  it  a  nutty  flavor. 

WINE  MADE  FROM  MIXED  FRUITS.  (From  an  English  paper.) — Take 
cherries,  black  currants,  white  currants  and  raspberries,  of  each  an 
equal  quantity,  though  if  the  black  currants  predominate,  the  better. 
To  4  Ibs.  of  the  mixed  fruit,  well  bruised,  put  i  gal.  of  water,  let  it 
steep  3  days  and  nights  in  an  open  vessel,  frequently  stirring  up  the 
mass;  then  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve.  The  remaining  pulp  press 
to  dryness,  pour  both  liquids  together,  and  in  each  gal.  of  the  liquid 
put  3  pounds  of  sugar ;  let  the  whole  stand  3  days  and  night,  fre- 
quently stirring  it  up  as  before,  skimming  the  top;  then  turn  it  into  a 
cask  and  let  it  remain  open  at  the  bung  hole  whilst  fermenting  about 
2  weeks;  lastly,  to  every  9  gals,  put  i  quart  of  good  brandy,  and  then 
fasten  down  the  bung;  if  it  does  not  soon  become  fine,  a  solution  of 
isinglass  may  be  stirred  into  the  wine. 

STRAWBERRY  WINE. — Ten  gallons  of  strawberries,  10  gallons  of 
water,  25  Ibs.  of  sugar,  3  oz.  of  red  tartar,  2  lemons,  oranges,  peel 
and  juice,  i  gallon  of  brandy.  This  is  delicious  and  keeps  well. 

RASPBERRY  WINE.— To  10  quarts  of  mashed  raspberries  add  8 
quarts  of  water  and  let  the  mixture  stand  24  hours  ;  strain  the  mass 
through  a  coarse  hair  sieve  and  add  to  every  gal.  2  or  3  Ibs.  of  lump 
sugar  and  suffer  it  to  ferment.  Then  bottle  closely. 

APRICOT  WINE. — Take 'apricots  when  nearly  ripe,  remove  the 
stones,  and  bruise  the  pulp  in  a  mortar.  To  8  Ibs.  of  the  pulp  add 
a  quart  of  water,  suffer  the  mixture  to  stand  for  24  hours,  then 
squeeze  out  the  juice  ;  add  to  every  gallon  of  it  2  Ibs.  of  loaf  sugar, 
put  it  into  a  cask  and  suffer  it  to  ferment,  when  perfectly  clear,  bot- 
tle it. 


WINES.  423 

MUSCADINE  WINE. —  Get  the  grapes  when  fully  ripe,  wash,  drain 
and  pound  them  with  a  pestle,  not  breaking  the  seeds,  as  they  would 
make  the  wine  bitter.  After  pounding  them,  measure  and  allow  to 
every  gallon  of  the  beaten  fruit  i  gallon  of  soft  water;  after  standing 
a  week,  strain  and  measure  the  clear  juice  and  add  3  Ibs.  of  loaf 
sugar  to  each  gallon.  After  fermentation  ceases,  bottle  it  tightly. 
The  drink  is  grateful  and  highly  refreshing  in  warm  weather. 

CRANBERRY  WINE. — Deemed  a  remedy  for  scrofula. — After  crush- 
ing the  berries  well,  put  them  into  a  stone  jar  and  allow  2  quarts  of 
berries  to  i  quart  of  water.  Stir  well  and  let  it  stand  2  days ;  strain 
through  a  double  flannel  bag,  then  mash  a  second  supply  of  berries 
equal  in  quantity  to  the  first  and  cover  with  this  liquid.  Steep  48 
hours  longer ;  strain  and  allow  i  pound  of  sugar  for  3  quarts  of 
liquor  and  boil  5  minutes.  Set  to  ferment  in  lightly  covered  jars, 
then  pour  off  and  bottle. 

FRENCH  CURRANT  WINE. — Dissolve  8  pounds  of  honey  in  15  gal- 
lons of  boiling  water,  to  which,  when  clarified,  add  the  juice  of  8 
pounds  of  red  or  white  currants  ;  then  ferment  for  24  hours ;  to  every 
2  gallons  add  2  pounds  of  sugar  and  clarify  with  whites  of  eggs. 

CORINTHIAN  OR  CURRANT  WINE. — Mrs.  Weston. — Good  for  dys- 
peptics— Gather  the  seedless  grape  or  Zante  currants,  lay  the  bunches 
one  over  the  other  in  the  sun  to  dry,  then  take  them  to  the  press- 
room and  lay  them  in  heaps  for  some  days  ;  throw  on  them  1-3  of  their 
bulk  of  water,  then  trample  with  the  feet  to  a  pulp  or  paste,  then 
put  them  through  the  press.  The  juice  is  thick  and  dark  ;  when  it 
settles  it  becomes  clear.  Malaga,  California  and  other  raisins  and 
elderberries  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

CURRANT  WINE. — Take  your  currants  full  ripe,  pick  and  bruise 
them  in  a  mortar,  and  to  every  gallon  of  pulp  put  2  quarts  of  water 
first  boiled  and  cold ;  you  can,  if  you  choose,  add  some  grapes ; 
let  it  stand  in  a  tub  to  ferment,  and  then  run  it  through  a  hair  sieve. 
Let  no  one  touch  it,  but  let  it  take  its  time  to  run,  and  to  every  gal- 
lon of  this  liquor  put  2  1-2  pounds  of  white  sugar.  Stir  it  well  and 
put  it  in  your  vessel,  and  to  every  gallon  put  a  quart  of  the  best 
rectified  spirits  of  wine,  and  let  it  stand  6  weeks  and  bottle  and  cork 
tightly. 

HONEY  WINE  (Californian.) — Honey,  20  pounds;  cider,  12  gal- 
lons; ferment,  then  add  1-2  gallon  of  rum,  the  same  of  brandy,  red 
or  white  tartar  (dissolved)  6  ounces,  bitter  almonds  and  cloves  of 
each,  1-4  ounce.  This  is  also  called  mead  wine. 

CLAIRET. — i  oz.  each  of  fennel  seed,  coriander  seed,  linseed,  chill 
seed,  caraway  seed,  nutmeg  plant  seeds  (garden),  nutmeg  geranium 
seeds  ;  bruise  them  in  a  clean  marble  mortar,  then  for  one  week  let 
them  steep  in  2  quarts  of  proof  spirits,  strain  and  add  i  Ib.or  more 
of  the  best  loaf  sugar. 


424  WINES. 

EXCELLENT  CALIFORNIA  RAISIN  WINE. — Put  8  gallons  of  fresh 
California  raisins  to  every  gal.  of  water  in  a  large  tub.  Stir  thor- 
oughly every  day  for  a  month,  then  press  the  raisins  in  a  flannel  bag, 
as  dry  as  possible;  put  the  liquor  into  a  cask;  when  it  is  done  hissing 
pour  in  a  bottle  of  the  best  brandy:  stop  it  close  for  12  months, then 
pour  it  off  leaving  the  dregs,  filter  through  paper  pulp  in  a  flannel 
bag,  add  the  clear  to  the  quantity,  and  pour  i  or  2  quarts  of  brandy, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  vessel  or  cask.  Raisin  wine  would  be 
extremely  good,  if  made  with  enough  rich  fruit  and  kept  long.  Age 
improves  its  flavor  greatly. 

RAISIN  WINE. — Take  300  Ibs.  of  California  raisins, not  picked,  put 
them  into  a  hogshead  of  clear  soft  water,  with  i  pound  of  hops,  let 
the  whole  stand  for  15  days,  stirring  twice  a  day.  Then  press  it  into 
a  tub;  then  spread  yeast  over  a  piece  of  toasted  bread,  and  let  it 
ferment  24  hours,  afterwards  put  the  liquor  into  a  cask,  where  it  may 
work  fourteen  days  longer;  fill  it  up  again  as  it  works  over,  and  when 
it  has  ceased,  let  it  be  well  bunged.  You  may  afterwards  put  18 
gals,  of  water  upon  the  raisins  for  small  wine,  in  a  week  press  it  out, 
in  a  month  bottle  off. 

RAISIN  WINE  WITH  CIDER. — Put  200  Ibs.  of  California  raisins  into 
a  cask  and  pour  upon  them  a  hogshead  of  good  apple  or  pear  cider 
that  is  not  rough ;  stir  it  well  two  or  three  days,  stop  it  and  let  it 
stand  for  6  months,  then  rack  into  a  cask  that  it  will  fill,  and  pour  in 
a  gallon  of  the  best  brandy.  If  the  raisin  wine  is  used  much,  it 
would  be  best  to  keep  a  cask  always  for  it  and  bottle  off  one  year's 
wine  just  in  time  for  the  next,  which,  allowing  the  6  month's  infusion 
would  make  the  wine  18  months  old.  In  cider  portions  of  country 
this  is  very  economical  and  if  not  thought  strong  enough,  the  ad- 
dition of  another  quarter  of  a  hundred  pounds  of  raisins  would  be 
sufficient,  and  the  wine  would  still  be  very  cheap.  When  the  raisins 
are  pressed  through  a  horse  hair  bag,  they  will  either  produce  a  good 
spirit  by  distillation  and  must  be  sent  to  a  distiller,  who  will  do  it, 
but  (for  that  purpose)  they  must  be  very  little  pressed,  or  they  make 
an  excellent  vinegar.  The  stalk  should  be  picked  out,  and  may  be 
thrown  into  any  cask  of  vinegar  that  is  making,  being  very  acid. 

A  RICH  AND  PLEASANT  WINE. — Take  new  cider  from  the  press, 
mix  it  with  as  much  honey  as  will  support  an  egg,  boil  gently  for  15 
minutes  in  an  enamelled  vessel  or  kettle  and  no  other.  Skim  it  well, 
when  cool  let  it  be  put  into  a  cask,  but  don't  quite  fill  it.  In  six 
months  bottle  it.  In  6  weeks  it  will  be  fit  to  drink ;  it  will  be  less 
sweet  if  kept  longer  in  the  cask.  You  will  have  a  rich  and  strong 
wine  and  it  will  keep  well.  This  will  serve  for  culinary  purposes. 
Honey  is  valuable  to  assist  in  rendering  new  crabbed  austere  cider 
nch  palatable.  The  qualities  of  wines  are  greatly  increased  by  age. 


WINES.  425 

SOUTH  HAMPTON  PORT. — To  British  port  add  1-2  pint  of  brandy 
and  i  dr.  of  powdered  kino. 

BRITISH  SHERRY.  (C.  P.  B.) — Grape  or  raisin  wine  slightly  flavored 
with  a  very  little  bitter  almond  cake,  or,  what  is  more  convenient,  a 
little  of  the  essential  oil,  dissolved  in  alcohol  (essence  of  bitter  al- 
monds). 2.  To  the  last  add  a  minute  quantitity  of  sweet  briar,  eau 
de  fleurs  d'oranges,  oroaris,  to  give  it  a  slight  bouquet.  3.  To  each 
gallon  of  strong  raisin  must,  add,  when  racking,  i  Seville  orange  and 
2  bitter  almonds,  both  sliced.  By  omitting  the  almonds  and  adding 
2  or  3  green  citrons  to  each  10  gallons,  this  forms  the  British  Ma- 
deira wine. 

CALIFORNIA  GRAPE  WINE. — Mash  the  grapes  to  form  a  pulp  with- 
out breaking  the  seeds,  squeeze  out  the  juice  and  strain  it  through  a 
sieve ;  pour  over  the  husks  or  mash  a  small  quantity  of  water,  let  it 
stand  24  hours  and  force  out  the  adhering  juice.  Having  done  this, 
add  to  every  gallon  of  the  juice  3  Ibs.  of  lump  sugar.  Suffer  the 
liquor  to  ferment  and  observe  the  rules  pointed  out  for  making  goose- 
berry wines. 

CALIFORNIA  TOKAY. — Pick  carefully  from  the  stalks  the  finest  and 
perfectly  ripe  California  grapes,  put  them  in  a  vessel  and  mash 
them  with  your  hands  ;  pour  the  pulp  and  juice  into  a  large  hair 
sieve,  placed  over  a  large  deep  pan  or  clean  tub  ;  press  and  squeeze 
out  all  the  juice.  To  every  quart  of  juice  allow  i  pound  of  Califor- 
nia raisins,  chopped  small  alter  seeding  them.  Let  the  juice  and 
raisins  stand  12  days,  stirring  them  several  times  a  day;  then  strain 
the  liquor  through  a  flannel  bag  into  a  cask,  but  do  not  stop  it  closely 
for  3  or  4  days.  In  8  months  draw  it  off  and  bottle  it.  If  it  con- 
tains any  sediment,  pour  out  a  pint  of  the  wine  and  mix  with  it  an 
ounce  of  powdered  gum  arabic,  or  1-2  oz.  of  isinglass,  shaved  fine  ; 
let  it  set  in  a  warm  place,  and  when  dissolved,  add  in  an  ounce  of 
powdered  chalk.  This  will  be  enough  to  settle  i  barrel  of  wine.  It 
should  be  lightly  stirred  to  mix  it  with  the  rest.  After  standing  3  or 
4  days,  then  bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

SCUPPERNONG  WINE. — Wash  and  mash  scuppernong  grapes  and 
to  every  gallon  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  next  morning  strain 
them  through  a  coarse  cloth  and  to  every  gallon  of  juice  put  3  !bs.  of 
crushed  sugar.  After  it  has  well  dissolved,  put  it  in  a  demijohn,  tie 
a  cloth  over  the  top  and  put  it  where  it  will  not  be  disturbed  for  6 
weeks;  never  let  it  be  shaken.  Bottle  and  cork  as  soon  as  the  wine 
is  ready  ;  in  5  weeks,  if  good,  bottle  it.  This  is  a  recipe  for  home- 
made scuppernong.  On  Roanoke  Island,  where  the  grape  is  in  its 
native  soil,  it  is  made  of  the  pure  juice  with  a  little  burnt  sugar  to 
color  it,  and  sometimes  brandy  is  added  by  particular  request. 
CLARET  CUP. — One  bottle  of  claret,  i  bottle  of  soda  water,  4 


426  WINBS. 

tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  1-4  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg, 
i  liquor-glassful  of  sherry  wine,  1-2  Ib.  pounded  ice,  a  sprig  of  green 
borage.  Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  glass  or  silver  vessel,  regulat- 
ing the  proportion  of  the  ice  by  the  state  of  the  weather;  if  very 
warm,  a  larger  portion  is  necessary.  Hand  the  cup  around  with  a 
clean  napkin  passed  through  the  handle,  that  the  edge  of  the  cup 
may  be  wiped  after  each  guest  has  partaken  of  its  contents;  but  it  is 
best  to  have  separate  goblets  or  glasses. 

CHAMPAGNE  WINE. — Take  good  apple  cider  (crab  apple  prefer- 
red), 7  gals,  i  quart  of  the  best  4th  proof  brandy,  5  quarts  genuine 
champagne  wine,  i  gill  of  new  milk,  2  ozs.  bitartarate  of  potassa  ; 
mix  and  let  stand  for  a  short  time;  while  fermenting,  bottle.  With 
age  this  makes  an  excellent  imitation  of  champagne. 

CALIFORNIA  SHERRY. — Put  i  quart  of  water  to  every  pound  of 
moist  sugar,  boil  it  till  clear ;  when  just  milk  warm,  work  with  new 
yeast  and  add  of  strong  beer,  in  the  heighth  of  working,  in  the  pro- 
portion of  i  quart  to  i  gal.  Cover  it  up  and  let  it  work  the  same  as 
beer ;  when  it  begins  to  rest,  barrel  it ;  when  it  has  been  barreled 
a  fortnight  or  3  weeks,  add  raisins  1-2  Ib.  to  a  gal.,  1-2  oz.  each  to 
a  gallon,  of  sugar  candy,  and  to  9  gallons  of  wine.  1-2  pint  of  the 
best  brandy.  Paste  a  stiff  brown  paper  over  the  bunghole ;  this  is 
preferable  to  a  bung.  After  remaining  in  the  cask  i  year  it  will  be 
fit  to  bottle.  It  will  improve  if  left  longer ;  if  suffered  to  remain  3 
years  in  casks  and  i  year  in  bottles,  it  can  scarcely  be  distinguished 
from  good  imported  wine. 

CHERRY  BOUNCE.  (Mrs.  H's.  Recipe.) — Stone  1-2  the  cherries,  fill 
the  vessel  1-2  full  of  the  fruit,  putting  down  a  layer  of  fruit  and  a 
layer  of  brown  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  1-4  pound  of  sugar  to  i 
quart  of  fruit.  Fill  the  vessel  with  good  apple  or  peach  brandy,  tie 
it  up  securely,  let  it  remain  until  the  cherries  look  a  pale  red,  then 
strain  and  bottle  it.  Use  it  by  adding  water  to  taste,  and  more  sugar 
if  liked.  This  may  be  made  in  a  jug  or  carboy.  Should  be  covered 
or  stopped,  or  the  brandy  will  lose  its  strength. 

EFFERVESCING  GOOSEBERRY  WINE. — To  every  gallon  of  water  allow 
6  pounds  of  unripe  gooseberries  and  3  pounds  of  lump  sugar.  This 
wine  should  be  prepared  from  green  gooseberries,  in  order  to  avoid 
the  flavor,  which  the  fruit  would  give  to  the  wine  when  in  a  mature 
state.  Its  briskness  depends  more  upon  the  time  of  bottling  than 
upon  the  unripe  state  of  the  fruit,  for  effervescing  wine  can  be  made 
from  fruit  that  is  ripe  as  well  as  from  the  unripe.  The  fruit  should 
be  selected  when  it  has  nearly  attained  its  full  growth,  and  conse- 
quently before  it  shows  any  tendency  to  ripen.  Any  bruised  or  de- 
cayed berries,  and  those  which  are  very  small  should  be  refused. 
The  blossom  and  stalk  ends  should  be  removed  and  the  fruit  well 


WINES.  427 

bruised  in  a  tub  or  vessel,  in  such  quantities  as  to  insure  each  berry 
being  broken  without  crushing  the  seeds.  Pour  the  water,  which 
should  be  warm,  over  the  fruit,  squeeze  and  stir  with  the  hand  until 
all  the  pulp  is  removed  from  the  skin  and  seeds,  and  cover  the  whole 
24  hours;  after  which  strain  through  a  coarse  bag  and  press  it  with 
as  much  force  as  can  conveniently  be  applied  to  extract  the  whole 
juice  and  liquor  the  fruit  may  contain.  To  every  40  or  50  pounds 
of  fruit  i  gallon  more  of  hot  water  may  be  passed  through  the  husks, 
in  order  to  obtain  any  soluable  matter  that  may  remain,  and  be  again 
pressed.  The  fruit  should  be  put  in  a  tub  or  vessel  of  sufficient  size 
to  contain  all  of  it,  and  the  sugar  added  to  it.  Let  it  be  well  strred 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  place  the  tub  in  a  warm  situation  ; 
keep  it  closely  covered  and  let  it  ferment  for  a  day  or  two.  It  must 
be  drawn  off  into  clean  casks,  placed  a  little  on  one  side  for  the 
scum  that  arises  to  be  thrown  out  and  the  casks  kept  filled  with  the 
remaining  "must"  or  unfermented  juice  that  should  be  reserved 
for  that  purpose,  When  the  active  fermentation  has  ceased  the 
casks  should  be  plugged  standing  upright,  and  again  be  filled,  if 
necessary,  the  bungs  be  put  in  loosely,  and  after  a  few  days,  when 
the  fermentation  is  a  little  more  languid,  which  may  be  known  by 
the  hissing  noise  ceasing,  the  bungs  should  be  driven  in  tightly 
and  a  spile  hole  made  to  give  vent  if  necessary.  In  five  or  six 
months  the  wine  should  be  racked  from  its  lees  into  clean  casks, 
which  may  be  rinsed  with  brandy.  After  a  month  it  should  be 
examined  to  see  if  sufficiently  clear  for  bottling,  if  not,  it  should 
be  purified  with  isinglass,  which  may  be  dissolved  in  some  wine, 
i  ounce  will  be  sufficient  for  2  gallons.  The  bottling  should  be  done 
on  a  clear,  warm  day. 

DAMSON  WINE. — Gather  dry  the  small  damsons,  which  beat  and 
crush  with  your  hand,  then  put  them  into  a  vessel  that  has  a 
mouth  or  hole  in  it  for  a  faucet.  To  every  12  pounds  of  fruit  add 
i  1-2  gallons  of  boiling  water,  which  must  be  poured  over  the  fruit 
scalding  hot.  After  standing  48  hours  draw  it  off  into  a  clean  cask, 
and  to  every  gallon  put  2  1-2  pounds  of  sugar.  The  cask  should  be 
quite  full,  and  the  longer  it  stands  the  better.  After  remaining 
some  months,  bottle  it  up,  and  into  each  bottle  put  a  piece  of  loaf 
sugar. 

RHUBARB  WINE. — Grate  the  stalks  on  a  coarse  grater,  strain  the 
juice,  and  to  each  quart  add  3  quarts  of  water  and  3  Ibs.  of  brown 
sugar.  Fill  a  demijohn  to  the  brim  with  it,  and  keep  some  to  fill  it, 
as  this  works  over.  When  it  has  done  fermenting  put  a  little  isinglass 
in  to  clarify  it,  and  bottle  it. '  It  will  be  good  for  use  in  2  months, 
and  the  flavor  will  resemble  champagne. 

GINGER   WINE. — Three  gallons  ot  water,  3  pounds  of  sugar,  4 


428  WINES. 

ounces  of  race  ginger  washed  in  4  waters;  boil  all  well  for  one 
hour,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  cask  with  3  lemons  cut  up 
and  2  gills  of  beer  yeast ;  shake  it  well  and  cover  the  cask  lightly  ; 
let  it  stand  to  ferment  until  clear  enough  to  bottle.  It  will  be  fit 
to  drink  in  10  days  after  it  is  bottled, 

BASIL  WINE  (used  to  give  a  turtle  taste  to  soups  and  gravies.) 
— Steep  4  or  5  ounces  of  the  green  leaves  of  basil  in  i  pint  of 
sherry  or  cape,  or  raisin  wine,  strain  and  bottle  closely. 

NOTE — Wine  of  celery  leaves,  celery,  leeks,  sage,  shalots  and  other 
green  or  dried  herbs  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

CAYENNE  WINE. — Steep  i  ounce  of  cayenne  or  capsicum  or  red 
pepper  in  i  pint  of  grape  wine  for  2  weeks ;  strain  and  bottle 
closely. 

NOTE — In  nearly  the  same  way  curry  powder,  spice  and  other 
similar  wines  for  flavoring  may  be  made  for  kitchen  use,  as  black 
pepper  and  horseradish. 

API-LE  WINE. — Take  fresh  cider  from  the  press,  and  to  each  gal- 
lon add  2  Ibs.  of  brown  sugar;  after  dissolving  the  sugar,  strain  it 
and  put  it  in  a  new  cask  (one  that  held  brandy  or  whisky  should  not 
be  used) ;  tack  a  piece  of  muslin  or  perforated  tin  over  the  bung 
and  let  it  stand  for  i  week ;  after  this  put  in  the  cork  tightly  and  let 
it  remain  2  weeks  longer;  then  fasten  it  tightly  to  exclude  the  air; 
leave  1-8  of  the  cask  not  filled.  In  2  or  3  months  it  is  fit  for  use; 
then  draw  off,  bottle  and  seal.  It  is  equal  to  Catawba  wine. — 
Rev.  D.  P.  Young. 

CIDER  WINE. — Allow  to  each  gallon  of  fresh  cider  just  from  the 
mill  2  Ibs.  of  brown  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved, 
then  strain  the  mixture  into  a  clean  cask,  but  not  full;  let  it  remain 
unstopped  for  48  hours,  then  put  in  the  bung  lightly  until  it  ceases 
to  effervesce,  when  bung  up  tightly.  In  a  year  the  wine  will  be  good. 
It  will  need  no  straining,  for  the  longer  it  stands  upon  its  lees  the 
better  it  will  be. 

MULBERRY  WINE. — Take  and  bruise  in  a  tub,  nearly  ripe  mulber- 
ries, and  to  every  quart  of  the  bruised  berries,  put  a  quart  of  water. 
Let  the  mixture  stand  24  hours,  strain  it  through  a  coarse  hair  seive, 
having  added  to  every  gallon  of  the  diluted  juice  3  or  4  Ibs.  of  sugar. 
Suffer  it  to  ferment,  and  when  purified,  bottle  closely.  Mulberries 
are  sub-acid  in  their  nature  and  are  esteemed  for  their  highly  arom- 
atic flavor.  The  Romans  preferred  it  to  every  other  fruit.  In  1518 
it  was  introduced  into  England,  and  is  known  in  the  United  States 
as  the  English  Mulberry,  but  the  black  and  red  mulberry  are  indig- 
enous to  this  country. 


BEERS,  ALE  AND  CIDER.  429 


BEERS,  ALE  AND  CIDER. 

BEER,  TOMATO. — Gather  the  fruit  when  perfectly  ripe  and  sound, 
wash  it  and  remove  the  stems,  then  mash  and  strain  through  a  coarse 
linen  bag,  and  allow  to  every  gallon  of  juice,  i  Ib.  of  good  brown 
sugar,  let  it  remain  9  or  10  days,  then  pour  off  the  clear  portion 
through  a  cloth,  and  leave  the  thick  part  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel. 
Then  bottle  closely ;  it  improves  by  age.  When  you  wish  to  use  it, 
fill  a  pitcher  nearly  full  of  fresh,  sweetened  water,  then  add  some  of 
the  tomato  liquid,  a  few  drops  of  the  essence  of  lemon,  and  it  will 
be  equal  to  superior  lemonade,  costing  nothing  but  the  trouble, 
Allow  one  gill  or  1-2  cupful  to  one  gallon  of  the  sweetened  water. 

PORTER  BEER. — Add  together  i  bottle  of  London  porter,  5  bot- 
tles of  water,  i  Ib.  of  brown  sugar  or  i  pint  of  molasses;  mix  all 
together  with  some  strong  ginger  tea.  This  quantity  will  fill  seven 
bottles ;  put  3  or  4  Cal.  raisins  into  each  bottle,  fill,  cork  and  wire 
them;  lay  them  on  their  sides  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

BEER. — Dr.  J.  R.  Pernell,  Va.— Take  2  gallons  boiling  water,  i  1-2 
oz.  cream  tartar,  and  as  much  ginger,  1-2  pint  of  yeast,  2  Ibs.  of 
brown  sugar  or  a  quart  of  molasses,  mix  well  together.  Let  them 
stand  24  hours,  then  bottle.  If  2  sliced  lemons  be  added  it  im- 
proves it. 

BEER.  (Mrs.  Upshur,  Va.) — To  14  bottles  of  water  add  i  quart 
of  strong  hop  tea  and  i  pint  of  molasses  ;  mix  them  well  together, 
bottle  and  cork  at  once.  In  24  hours,  if  the  weather  is  warm,  it  will 
be  fit  for  use. 

TABLE  BEER.  (Mrs.  Upshur,  Sturgis,  N.  Y.) — Twelve  gallons  of 
water,  4  ears  of  shelled  roasted  corn,  2  quarts  of  parched  oats,  2 
quarts  of  bran,  4  ozs.  hops  boiled  together  and  strained ;  add  3  pints 
of  molasses  and  i  pint  of  brisk  yeast ;  leave  it  to  settle,  then  put  into 
jugs  or  bottles.  Stop  closely. 

TAR  BEER,  (Recommended  for  pulmonary  complaints.) — One  gal. 
water,  2  quarts  wheat  bran,  i  pint  pure  tar,  i  pint  honey,  1-2  pint 
brewers  yeast.  Simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  3  hours  in  a  clean 
earthen  vessel ;  add  the  yeast  when  cold.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  ;  is 
ready  for  use  in  36  hours  ;  a  wineglassful  to  be  taken  before  each 
meal. 

CHEAP  SMALL  BEER. — To  12  quarts  of  cold  water  add  1-2  pint  of 
strong  hop  tea  and  i  1-2  pints  of  molasses;  mix  it  well  together  and 
bottle  immediately.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  the  next  day,  if  the  weath- 
er is  warm. 

CRAB  APPLB  BEER. — Boil  the  fruit  in  a  preserving  or  porcelain 
kettle  until  sufficiently  acid,  strain  through  a  muslin  bag ;  put  a 


4.30  BEERS,  ALE  AND  CIDER. 

piece  of  yeast  cake  an  inch  square  into  e£ch  gallon  of  the  liquor; 
sweeten  to  taste.  Use  the  second  day. 

GINGER  BEER.  (N.  O.) — Take  i  oz.  of  finely  pounded  ginger  root 
and  make  a  quart  of  strong  tea,  add  water  to  make  4  gallons  ;  into 
this  dissolve  4  Ibs.  of  brown  sugar,  i  ounce  of  cream  tartar  and  mix 
with  it  thoroughly,  i  pint  of  good  yeast ;  let  it  stand  24  hours,  then 
strain  carefully  and  bottle,  tying  down  the  corks.  In  48  hours  from 
the  time  of  bottling,  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

APPLE  CIDER — Should  never  be  left  in  the  sun,  but  as  soon  as  it 
runs  through  the  mill  place  it  at  once  in  a  cool  place,  or  alcohol, 
formed  by  the  decomposition  of  sugar,  is  converted  into  vinegar. 
This  applies  to  other  fruit  juices  as  well  as  apples. 

THE  BEST  CIDER  is  obtained  from  rough  sour  apples — but  those 
containing  (the  sweetest)  the  largest  amount  of  sugar  produce 
the  best  vinegar.  No  defective  apple  should  be  ground  with  the 
sound  ones,  nor  unripe  ones,  as  they  do  not  contain  enough  sugar 
to  undergo  the  various  fermentations;  while  they  render  the  liquor 
rough  and  acidulous  and  prevent  its  clarification. 

To  CHECK  FERMENTATION — Add  5  or  6  ozs.  of  mustard  seeds  and 
1-2  oz.  of  cloves,  both  well  bruised;  racking  into  a  fresh  spirit  cask 
is  a  good  plan. 

CIDER  CHAMPAGNE. — Good,  pale,  vinous  cider  i  hogshead,  pale 
proof  spirits  3  gallons,  honey  or  sugar  14  Ibs.;  mix  and  let  them 
remain  together  in  a  temperate  situation  for  i  month,  then  add 
orange  flower  water  i  gal. and  fine  down  with  skimmed  milk  1-2  gal. 

N.  B. — This  will  be  very  pale  and  resemble  champagne  when 
bottled,  and  when  duly  labelled,  is  often  sold  and  palmed  off  on  those 
who  are  not  judges  of  the  pure  article.  Before  bottling,  a  piece  of 
sugar  should  be  put  into  each  bottle,  and  stored  away  in  a  cool 
place. 

To  KEEP»CIDER  SWEET. — After  cider  has  worked  to  the  most  de- 
sirable taste,  then  add  i  1-2  cupfuls  of  powdered  horse  radish  to 
each  barrel  and  shake  it  up  well.  After  remaining  a  few  weeks, 
rack  off  and  bung  closely  in  clean  casks. 

CIDER,  HOW  TO  REFINE  AND  KEEP  SWEET  FOR  FAMILY  USE. — To 
each  barrel  of  cider,  made  of  sweet  apples,  as  soon  as  it  begins  to 
work,  put  in  i  oz.  of  alum,  2  Ibs  of  charcoal,  and  i  oz.  of  gum  ara- 
bic,  all  in  powder;  let  it  stand  i  week,  then  pour  it  off  carefully 
through  a  flannel  bag  and  then  bottle  and  cork  very  tight. 

CIDER  DRINK. — One  and  a  half  pints  of  cider  and  i  pint  of  cold 
water,  sugar  to  taste ;  grate  in  some  nutmeg.  Good  for  persons  who 
are  billious  or  have  rheumatismus.  Sharp  cider  is  still  better. 

CHAMPAGNE  CIDER.  (Mrs.  Davis.) — Let  the  cider  made  from  good 
sound  apples  ferment,  until  palatable,  then  draw  into  a  clean  barrel ; 


SEERS,   ALE  AND  CIDER.  43! 

add  1-4  oz.  of  sulphate  of  lime  to  every  gallon  of  cider.  Mix  the 
sulphate  in  a  bucket  of  cider,  return  to  the  barrel  and  shake  well ; 
let  it  stand  till  clear,  when  it  is  fit  for  use. 

WELSH  ALE. — Upon  64  gallons  of  malt  pour  42  gallons  of  hot 
water,  but  not  up  to  the  boiling  point,  cover  and  let  it  stand  for  3 
hours.  In  the  mean  time  steep  4  Ibs.  of  hops  in  a  little  water  and 
put  them  into  the  tub,  run  the  unfermented  liquor  upon  them  and 
boil  3  hours.  Strain  off  the  hops  and  keep  them  for  the  small  beer. 
Let  the  wort  or  liquor  stand  in  a  high  tub  till  cool  enough  for  the 
yeast,  of  which,  whether  of  the  ale  or  that  of  the  small  beer,  pour  in 
2  quarts ;  mix  the  whole  thoroughly  and  stir  it  often.  When  the 
wort  has  done  fermenting,  which  will  be  about  the  zd  or  3rd  day, 
the  yeast  will  sink  rather  than  rise,  and  must  be  removed  immediate- 
ly, and  the  ale  put  in  casks  as  fast  as  it  works  out.  Pour  a  quart  in 
at  a  time,  but  gently,  to  prevent  the  fermentation  from  continuing 
too  long.  Lay  some  paper  over  the  bunghole  2  or  3  days  previous 
to  stopping  it. 

WINDSOR  ALE. — Take  a  bushel  of  the  best  pale  malt,  and  of  the 
finest  hops,  that  have  soaked  all  night  in  cold  water,  i  lb.;  i  Ib.  each 
of  clarified  honey  and  sugar,  1-2  lb.  of  well  cut  and  bruised  liquorice 
root,  1-2  oz.  ground  grains  of  paradise,  1-4  oz.  orange  peel,  i  dram 
each  of  coriander 'seed,  cinnamon  and  angelica  root.  In  the  com- 
mon way,  brew  the  whole  with  3  mashings,  using  bran-flour  instead 
of  that  of  grain,  and  a  little  salt  in  the  cleansing. 

CARROT  ALE. — Take  24  Ibs.  of  carrots,  4  quarts  of  molasses  or 
treacle,  2  Ibs.  of  bran,  dried  buckbeans,  4  ozs.,  12  gallons  of  water 
and  1-2  pint  of  yeast.  Let  the  carrots  be  cut  in  thin  slices,  boil 
them  in  the  water  for  i  hour,  adding  a  little  water  to  supply  the 
waste  caused  by  evaporation ;  strain  it,  mash  up  the  bran  with  the 
carrot  water,  stir  it  well  to  prevent  it  from  being  lumpy,  add  the 
molasses,  let  it  stand  for  half  an  hour,  strain  and  boil  the  strained 
liquor  for  15  minutes  with  the  buckbeans.  Finally  strain  it  and  set 
it  to  cool ;  when  milk  warm,  add  the  yeast ;  then  bung  it  up  tightly. 
It  will  be  found  to  be  a  cheap  and  agreeable  beverage. 

GINGER  BEER  No.  i. — One  pound  lump  sugar,  i  ounce  bruised 
ginger,  1-4  ounce  cream  tartar,  i  sliced  lemon,  i  gallon  boiling 
water.  Mix ;  when  lukewarm  add  2  ounces  yeast,  work  from  4  to 
6  hours,  skim  the  liquor,  strain  and  bottle. 

GINGER  BEER  No.  2. — Put  3  pounds  of  good,  moist  brown  su- 
gar into  2  gallons  of  water  and  the  whites  of  2  well  beaten  eggs; 
when  near  the  boiling  point,  skim  and  put  in  2  ounces  of  bruised 
ginger;  let  it  boil  for  30  minutes,  then  pour  it  boiling  on  the  rinds 
of  2  lemons  ,  while  warm  stir  in  a  little  yeast  and  put  it  into  a  cask 
with  the  pulp  of  the  lemon,  cork  the  next  day  and  let  it  stand  15 


43 2  BEERS,  ALE  AND  CIDER 

days,  then  draw  off,  strain  and  bottle  it.     In  a  few  days  it  will  be  fit 
for  use. 

GINGER  BEER  No.  3. — Take  i  pound  of  hops  and  i  pound  of 
ginger  root,  put  them  in  5  gallons  of  water  and  boil  for  i  hour; 
strain  off  the  liquor,  add  5  gallons  of  cold  water,  squeeze  the  mass 
of  hops  and  ginger  and  add  them  to  the  former ;  add  3  pints  of 
molasses  and  boil  with  continual  stirring  until  you  observe  a  blue  fog 
or  vapor,  then  slowly  add  2  quarts  of  cold  water,  stirring  constantly, 
then  add  7  gallons  of  cold  water,  6  quarts  and  i  pint  of  molasses 
and  2  quarts  of  spirits  of  any  kind  (except  gin),  put  in  3  quarts  of 
baker's  or  distiller's  yeast ;  the  beer  should  not  be  more  than  blood 
warm  when  the  yeast  is  added.  Be  particular  to  have  a  sweet,  clean 
cask;  allow  it  to  ferment,  and  when  done  working  bung  it  up 
tight.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  30  hours. 

GINGER  BEER  FOR  SUMMER. — To  i  gallon  of  boiling  water  put  i 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  i  ounce  of  best  ginger  root  bruised  and  cream 
of  tartar  or  sliced  lemon.  Stir  it  all  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  let 
it  stand  till  milk  warm,  then  add  i  tablespoonful  of  good  hop  yeast 
poured  over  a  slice  of  cold  loaf  bread,  and  allow  it  to  float  on  the 
surface  and  stand  23  hours,  well  covered;  then  strain  it  and  fill  the 
clean  bottles  3-4  full ;  cork  with  good  corks  and  tie  over.  It  will 
be  fit  for  use  in  2  days,  and  is  a  refreshing  and  healthy  drink. 

CHEAP  FAMILY  BEER. — Take  a  cask  holding  24  gallons,  8  pounds 
of  common  brown  sugar,  2  pounds  of  hops,  3  quarts  of  bran  ;  to 
be  boiled  11-2  hours  in  24  gallons  of  water.  Draw  it  off  from  the 
boiler  and  put  into  the  cask ;  when  cold  stop  it  closely,  and  in  one 
week  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

PHILADELPHIA  BEER. — Take  10  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  15  gal- 
lons of  water,  3-4  pound  pounded  ginger,  1-8  lb  cream  of  tartar, 
i  1-2  ounce  carbonate  of  soda,  1-2  teaspoonful  oil  of  lemon  mixed 
in  a  little  alcohol;  whites  of  5  eggs  well  beaten,  i  ounce  of  hops,  i 
quart  yeast.  The  ginger  root  and  hops  ought  to  boil  20  or  30  min- 
utes in  enough  water  to  make  all  milk  warm,  then  strain  into  the 
rest  and  the  yeast  added,  and  allowed  to  work  itself  clear  as  the 
cider  and  bottled  for  use. 

CREAM  BEER. — To  2  quarts  of  water  add  6  pounds  of  double- 
refined  sugar,  4  ounces  tartaric  acid;  put  it  on  the  fire,  beat  2 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  solid  froth,  and  when  the  mixture  is  just 
warm  add  the  eggs.  It  should  not  come  to  a  boil.  Strain  through 
muslin  without  squeezing ;  flavor  with  lemon.  Bottle  and  keep  in 
a  cool  place.  Fill  2-3  of  a  tumbler  with  water  and  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  syrup,  and  when  about  to  drink  stir  in  1-2  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda. 

BEER— To  cure  when  ropy.— Put  a  handful  or  two  each  of  flour 


BEERS,  ALE  AND  CIDER.  433 

and   hops  with   a  little   powdered  alum  into  the  beer  and  stir  it 
well. 

LEMON  BEER. — Dr.  F. — For  10  gallons  of  water  take  8  pounds 
of  brown  sugar,  4  ounces  cream  of  tartar,  2  quarts  of  hop  yeast, 
10  drops  oil  of  lemon.  For  winter  use  add  1-4  ounce  tartaric  acid 
to  sour  it.  Dissolve  your  sugar  in  part  of  the  water  so  as  to  make 
it  about  milk-warm  ;  add  the  yeast. 

LEMON  BEER  No.  2. — Boil  12  ounces  of  crushed  ginger  root,  1-2 
pound  of  cream  tartar  for  15  or  30  minutes  in  5  or  6  gallons  of  wa- 
ter. This  will  make  40  gallons.  Into  this  will  be  strained  26  Ibs. 
of  nice  brown  or  crust  sugar,  on  which  you  have  put  2  ounces  of  oil 
of  lemon  and  12  good  lemons  all  squeezed  together;  have  the  water 
warm  enough  to  bear  the  hand  without  burning;  to-make  40  gals, 
put  in  3  pints  of  hops  or  brewer's  yeast  worked  into  a  part  as  for  the 
cider,  with  10  or  12  ozs.  of  flour.  Let  it  remain  until  next  morning, 
then  strain  and  bottle  for  use.  Will  keep  fora  number  of  days. 

MOLASSES  BEER. — Boil  5  quarts  of  hops  and  5  of  wheat  bran  in 
15  gallons  of  water  4  hours  and  strain  it.  Put  it  into  a  cask  with 
the  head  out  and  add  5  quarts  of  molasses ;  stir  and  cover  it  with 
a  cloth.  When  luke-warm  stir  in  a  quart  of  yeast;  cover  it  with  a 
cloth  and  board  to  fit  closely,  and  when  it  has  fermented  and  looks 
clear  draw  it  off  and  put  it  into  bottles  that  are  well  cleaned.  Soak 
the  corks  and  cork  tightly. 

SPRUCE  BEER. — Ten  gallons  warm  water,  essence  of  spruce  4  oz.. 
sugar  or  molasses  S  pounds.  Mix;  add  1-2  pint  of  yeast  when 
lukewarm;  work  from  4  to  6  hours ;  bottle  and  strain  after  skimming 
the  liquor. 

WHITE  SPRUCE  BEER. — For  a  cask  of  12  gallons  mix  1-2  pound 
of  the  essence  of  spruce,  14  Ibs.  of  loaf  sugar  made  into  a  clari- 
fied syrup  and  about  i  1-2  gallons  of  hot  water;  stir,  and  when  suf- 
ficiently mixed  pour  it  into  the  cask  and  fill  it  nearly  up  with  cold 
water.  Add  i  gill  of  good  yeast.  Shake  the  cask  well  and  let 
it  ferment  for  3  or  4  days,  after  which  close  the  bung.  In  a  few 
days  draw  off  and  bottle  up,  and  in  7  or  8  days  more  it  will  be  fit 
for  use.  First  dissolve  and  add  i  ounce  of  isinglass  in  some  of  the 
warm  liquor  or  cider  to  give  it  transparency.  In  cool  weather  more 
yeast  is  required  than  in  warm.  If  the  stone  bottle  for  the  beer  be 
musty,  simply  fill  them  with  dirt  and  water  and  let  them  remain 
3  or  4  days,  then  rinse  with  clean  water. 

ROOT  BEER. — Eight  ounces  extract  of  liquorice  dissolved  in  20 
gals,  of  hot  water,  to  which  add  good  molasses  i  1-2  gallons,  brewer's 
yeast  8  ounces ;  let  it  ferment  for  6  or  8  hours,  then  to  the  mixture 
add  2  ounces  oil  of  sassafras,  i  drachm  wintergreen,  3  drops  oil  ot 
cloves,  10  drops  oil  of  cinnamon  mixed  with  i  pint  of  alcohol,  and 
it  is  ready  for  use. 


431  BEERS,  ALE  AND  CIDER. 

CORN  BEER. — Boil  i  quart  of  Indian  corn  until  the  grains  begin 
to  burst,  then  put  them  into  a  jug  and  pour  in  2  gallons  of  boiling 
water  into  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  ;  add  a  quart  of  molasss, 
a  handful  of  dried  apples  and  a  large  tablespoonful  of  ginger.  It 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  2  or  3  days.  In  cold  weather  set  it  by  the 
fire.  It  may  be  kept  up  several  weeks  with  the  same  corn.  Sweeten 
the  water  before  pouring  into  the  jug. 

PERSIMMON  BEER. — This  is  a  favorite  winter  drink  with  the  col- 
ored dames  of  the  Southern  States  at  Christmas  times.  It  is  made 
by  taking  i  bushel  of  sweet,  ripe  persimmons  well  mashed  and 
worked  into  1-2  bushel  of  wheat  bran  ;  mix  well  and  bake  in  large 
loaves.  Break  the  loaves  in  a  clean  barrel  with  some  small  sticks 
of  wood  laid  at  the  bottom  in  the  form  of  a  pen,  then  put  some 
clean  wheat  srtraw  over  this,  then  put  in  the  bread,  and  over  this 
pour  12  gallons  of  clear  water  sweetened  with  molasses.  As  soon 
as  the  fermentation  ceases  it  may  be  bottled.  The  beer  should  be 
made  in  a  warm  room. 

CIDER,  TO  PREPARE  FOR  MEDICINAL  PURPOSES. — Allow  to  each 
barrel  of  cider  i  Ib.  of  whole  mustard  seeds,  i  oz.  each  of  isinglass 
and  pounded  alum  ;  do  not  stop  the  barrel  or  cask,  but  shake  it  up 
once  or  twice  every  24  hours,  for  5  days,  then  beat  6  eggs  and  2 
pints  of  new  milk  well  together,  and  pour  into  the  cider  and  stir  well 
3  times  in  49  hours;  then  let  it  stand  until  clear,  and  draw  off  and 
bottle,  but  do  not  cork  them  until  the  next  day,  or  the  bottles  may 
burst.  NOTE. — If  the  apples  are  sound  and  fully  ripe,  and  the  cider 
worked  till  clear,  then  poured  off  or  racked 'twice  and  then  bottled, 
the  cider  will  keep  pure  and  sweet  for  a  great  number  of  years.  Lay 
the  bottles  on  the  side. 

APPLES  AND  FIGS  DRINK. — Cut  two  or  three  apples  in  six  or  eight 
pieces,  and  cut  in  two  six  fresh  dried  figs,  and  put  them  in  a  stew 
pan  with  one-half  gallon  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  briskly  for 
twenty  minutes;  then  pour  the  fruit  and  liquor  into  a  bowl ;  when 
cool,  pour  through  a  strainer.  The  liquor  will  be  good  to  drink  and 
the  fruit  excellent  to  eat,  sweetened  with  sugar  and  flavored  with  a 
little  grated  lemon  peel, 

CIDER  CAN  HAVE  THE  TASTE  OF  FOREIGN  WINE. — Pour  it  into  fresh 
emptied  wine  casks  or  puncheons  ;  add  some  brown  sugar  to  it  and 
it  will  have  all  the  pungency  and  vinosity  of  foreign  wine.  The 
night  before  it  is  intended  to  be  bottled,  the  bung  should  be  taken 
out. 

To  MAKE  BOTTLED  CIDER  VERY  BRISK.— When  you  are  bottling 
the  cider,  put  a  large  raisin  into  the  bottom  of  each  bottle  before 
you  put  in  the  cider.  Cork  tightly.  In  bottling  spruce  or  molasses 
beer,  put  in  also  a  raisin. 


HOW  TO  PRESERVE  CASKS.  435 


HOW  TO  PREPARE  CASKS  AND  RESTORE  WINES. 

GLAZING  FOR  FRESCOES  OR  CASKS. — Mixed  with  benzole  or  Canada 
balsam,  parafine  is  said  to  be  superior  to  soluble  glass  for  glazing  over 
frescoes.  By  covering  the  interior  of  wine  casks  with  a  film  of  pure 
white  parafine  when  in  a  melted  state,  the  wine  is  prevented  from 
spoiling  or  evaporating,  as  it  will  otherwise  do  through  the  wood. 

RACKING  WINE. — It  is  better  to  do  this  in  cool  weather.  A  sy- 
phon, well  managed,  will  be  found  better  than  a  faucet,  in  order  not 
to  disturb  the  dregs  or  foul  portions,  which  can  be  strained  through 
a  bag  and  made  into  vinegar  or  added  to  some  other  inferior  wines. 

To  MAKE  WINE  SETTLE. — Boil  i  pint  of  wheat  in  a  quart  of  water 
till  it  breaks  and  becomes  soft,  then  squeeze  through  a  linen  bag  and 
put  a  pint  of  the  liquor  into  a  hogshead  of  unsettled  white  wine  ;  stir 
it  thoroughly  about  and  it  will  become  pure. 

WINE,  TO  RESTORE  WHEN  SOUR  OR  SHARP. — Fill  a  bag  with  leek- 
seeds,  or  grape  leaves,  or  twists  of  vines,  and  put  either  of  them  to 
infuse  in  the  cask. 

To  IMPROVE  POOR  WINES. — Mix  2  pounds  of  clear  honey  and  a 
pint  or  two  of  brandy  together  and  put  them  in  the  cask  of  wine. 

To  STOP  A  LEAK, — Make  a  paste  of  yellow  soap  and  whiting,  and 
apply  it  to  the  leak,  and  it  will  stop  it. 

GERMAN  METHOD  OF  RESTORING  SOUR  WiNES.-^-Put  a  small  quan- 
tity of  charcoal  into  the  wine,  shake  it  and  let  it  remain  2  days ;  pour 
off  and  put  into,  a  clean  cask  or  bottles. 

To  IMPROVE  WINE  THAT  is  BECOMING  ACID. — To  each  gallon  of 
wine  allow  i  oz.  of  bitter  almonds  ;  scald  and  crush  them  in  brandy, 
draw  the  wine  off,  put  the  almonds  into  the  cask,  then  add  the  wine 
on  them.  As  soon  as  the  acidity  is  gone  off,  bottle  it. 

TO  CURE  A  MUSTY  PlPE,  HOGSHEAD,  CASK,  OR  ANY  OTHER  VESSEL 

OF  WINE. — Apply  the  crumb  or  soft  part  of  a  large  wheaten  or 
household  loaf  to  the  bunghole,  and  let  it  remain  6  or  7  days.  A 
certain  remedy  to  take  away  the  must. 

To  MAKE  A  MATCH  FOR  SWEETENING  CASKS,  HOGSHEADS,  ETC. — • 
Melt  some  brimstone  and  dip  into  it  a  coarse  linen  cloth,  of  which, 
when  cold,  take  a  piece  about  an  inch  broad  and  5  feet  long,  set  it 
on  fire  and  put  it  into  the  cask  with  one  end  fastened  under  the  bung, 
which  must  be  fastened  very  tight.  Let  it  remain  some  hours. 

FININGS  FOR  WINE. — Take  the  whites  and  shells  of  3  fresh  eggs, 
beat  them  in  a  wooden  vessel  till  they  become  a  thick  froth  ;  add  to 
them  a  little  wine  and  whisk  it  up  again.  If  the  cask  be  full, 
take  out  4  or  5  gallons  and  give  it  a  good  stirring ;  next,  whisk  up 
the  finings  and  put  them  in,  after  which  stir  up  the  whole  well.  Or 


436  HOW  TO  PRESERVE  CASKS. 

dissolve  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  and  the  whites  and  shells  of  3  eggs  ; 
beat  the  whole  up  and  proceed  as  above. 

To  KEEP  WINES  FROM  TURNING  SOUR. — Boil  a  gallon  of  wine  with 
some  beaten  oyster  shells  and  crabs'  claws,  burnt  to  a  powder,  in 
the  proportion  of  an  ounce  of  each  to  every  10  gallons.  Strain  the 
liquor  through  a  sieve,  and  when  cold,  put  it  into  wine  of  the  same 
sort,  which  will  acquire  a  lively  taste,  A  lump  of  unslacked  lime 
will  produce  the  same  effect. 

FOR  WINE,  WHEN  ROPY.  —  Put  a  piece  of  coarse  linen  cloth 
around  the  end  of  the  faucet  that  goes  into  the  cask,  then  pour  the 
wine  off  into  a  dry  one,  putting  5  ounces  of  powdered  alum  to  30 
gallons.  Roll  and  shake  the  whole  well,  and  it  will  soon  become 
clarified. 

A  much  more  simple  and  equally  efficacious  method  is,  merely  to 
hang  a  bunch  of  hysops  in  at  the  bunghole. 

To  SWEETEN  WINE. — Infuse  a  han.dful  of  chary  flowers  in  30  gals, 
of  wine;  then  put  into  a  bag  i  pound  of  dry  white  mustard  seeds, 
ground,  and  let  it  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  cask.  When  wine  is 
lowering,  or  decaying,  take  an  ounce  of  rock  alum  and  reduce  it  to 
powder,  draw  off  4  gallons  of  the  liquor,  mix  the  powder  with  it  and 
stir  it  well  for  an  hour.  Fill  up  the  cask  and  let  it  fine  or  ferment, 
which  will  be  in  about  a  week.  Bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

To  SWEETEN  A  MUSTY  CASK. — Take  some  fresh  refuse  from  a  milch 
cow  and  mix  it  with  a  quantity  of  warm  water,  so  as  to  make  it  suf- 
ficiently liquid  to  pass  through  a  large  funnel,  previously,  however, 
dissolve  in  the  water  2  pounds  of  bay  salt  and  of  alum.  Put  the 
whole  into  a  pot  on  the  fire,  stirring  it  with  a  stick,  and  when  it  is 
near  boiling,  pour  it  into  the  cask ;  then  bung  it  tightly  and  shake  it 
well  for  5  or  6  minutes.  Let  it  remain  for  3  hours,  then  take  out  the 
bung  to  let  the  vapor  escape,  after  which  replace  it  and  give  the 
cask  another  shaking.  At  the  end  of  2  hours  rinse  it  out  with  cold 
water  till  it  become  perfectly  clean  ;  then  have  in  readiness  another 
pound  of  bay  salt  and  1-4  pound  of  alum  boiled  in  a  little  water; 
pour  the  same  into  the  cask  and  repeat  the  process  as  before. 

To  TAKE  AWAY  THE  ILL  SCENT  OF  WINE. — Take  a  roll  ofdough 
stuck  with  cloves,  hang  it  in  the  cask,  and  it  will  extract  the  ill  scent 
from  the  wine  itself. 

To  KEEP  WINES  FROM  BECOMING  ACID.—  Pour  in  the  cask  from  the 
bung,  a  flask  of  olive  oil,  and  it  will  preserve  the  same  from  acidity 
to  the  last  drop. 

VARNISH  OR  ENAMEL,  FOR  COATING  THE  INSIDE  OF  CASKS. — A  new 
application  of  charcoal  has  recently  been  made  in  England  for  the 
manufacture  of  a  permanent  enamel  or  varnish  for  coating  the  inside 
of  casks.  The  charcoal,  which  is  made  from  the  wood  of  the  white 


CORDIALS.  437 

willow,  is  reduced  to  a  very  fine  powder  and  mixed  with  proper  pro- 
portions of  shellac  and  methylated  spirit.  When  ready  for  use,  it 
is  laid  on  with  a  brush  and  the  inside  of  the  cask  fired,  so  as  to  re- 
move the  spirits  and  leave  the  lining  of  charcoal  and  shellac;  it  is 
then  coated  again  and  fired  a  second  time,  after  which  it  is  allowed 
to  stand  a  short  time  before  being  used.  This  composition  is  said 
to  form  a  perfect  enamel,  and  while  it  prevents  any  leakage,  it  pre- 
serves the  casks  in  an  extraordinary  manner.  It  answers  admirably 
for  beer  and  acids  and  is  largely  adopted  by  some  of  our  principal 
brewers. 

CORDIALS,  BRANDIES,  ETC. 

PEACH  CORDIAL. — Gather  White  Heath  or  very  nice  cling  stone 
peaches,  cut  them  to  the  stone  in  several  places,  and  fill  jars  or 
casks;  cover  them  with  peach  brandy,  and  let  them  remain  8  weeks. 
Then  to  every  gallon  allow  2  Ibs,  of  sugar,  1-2  pint -of  water;  make 
a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water,  and  when  cold,  mix  1-2  syrup 
and  1-2  brandy.  Bottle  or  keep  it  in  the  cask. 

PEACH  CORDIAL. — Allow  4  Ibs.  of  sugar  to  i  gal.  of  brandy,  4  oz. 
peach  kernels  blanched,  or  blanched  almonds,  or  a  mixture  of  equal 
quantities  of  both,  cut  the  kernels  up  and  pour  the  brandy  over  the 
sugar  to  melt  it.  You  may  sprinkle  the  sugar  over  with  water  very 
lightly  at  first,  to  dissolve  it.  Let  it  simmer  over  the  fire  for  one 
hour  with  the  kernels.  Let  it  settle  three  or  four  days,  then  pour  off 
clear  from  the  kernels  and  bottle  it. 

PINE  APPLE  BRANDY  CORDIAL. — Boil  2  Ibs.  of  loaf  sugar  in  2 
quarts  of  spring  water,  remove  the  froth  ;  when  cold,  add  2  quarts 
of  brandy,  put  into  a  stone  jar.  Brush  clean  the  outside  of  a  pine- 
apple, cut  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick,  allowing  2  Ibs  for  the 
above  quantity  of  sugar  and  water,  put  the  slices  in  the  liquor  or 
syrup;  close  tightly.  In  a  month's  time  the  liquor  will  be  fit  to 
drink,  and  the  pineapple  fit  to  eat.  N.  B. — In  about  three  month's 
time  the  brandy  will  have  extracted  all  the  flavor  out  of  the  pines, 
which  should  be  eaten  at  once,  and  the  syrup  put  into  pint  bottles, 
and  closely  sealed,  and  kept  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

THE  SYRUP — To  drink  as  a  cordial,  to  put  into  punch  to  give  it 
the  flavor  of  pineapple,  and  over  strawberries  or  raspberries  before 
you  eat  them. 

QUINCE  CORDIAL. — Grate  the  quinces  and  strain  them,  and  to 
every  quart  of  juice,  put  i  Ib.  of  sugar  and  i  pint  spirits;  boil,  strain 
and  bottle  it. 

CORDIAL  FOR  THE  STOMACH. — Mrs.  Kull,  of  Hamburg. — 6  quarts 
pure  brandy,  i  1-2  oz.  of  cloves,  1-4  oz.  cinnamon,  1-2  oz.  cardo- 


438  CORDIALS. 

man  seed,  2  oz.  dried  blackberries,  6  oz.  sugar ;  put  in  a  bottle  after 
steeping,  pour  off  into  another  bottle,  and  refill  with  fresh  brandy, 
and  let  steep  again.  Valuable. 

USQUEBAUGH  OB  IRISH  CORDIAL. — 2  quarts  of  whiskey,  without  a 
smoky  taste,  or  the  best  brandy;  put  in  i  Ib.  of  stewed  raisins,  1-2 
oz.  of  nutmeg,  1-4  oz.  cloves,  the  same  quantity  of  cardomans,  all 
crushed  in  a  mortar ;  the  rind  of  a  large,  ripe  and  juicy  orange, 
rubbed  off  on  lumps  of  sugar;  the  juice,  a  little  tincture  of  saffron, 
and  1-2  Ib.  of  brown  sugar  candy.  Shake  the  infusion  every  day  for 
2  weeks,  and  filter  for  use.  It  is  sometimes  tinged  to  a  fine  green 
with  the  juice  of  spinage. 

WHISKEY  CORDIAL. — Take  i  Ib.  of  ripe  white  currants,  the  rind  of 
a  lemon,  1-4  oz.  of  grated  ginger,  i  quart  of  whiskey,  i  Ib.  of  burnt 
sugar;  strip  the  currants  from  the  stalks,  put  them  in  a  large  jug, 
add  the  lemon  rind,  ginger  and  whiskey,  cover  the  jug  closely  and 
let  it  remain  covered  for  24  hours ;  strain  through  a  hair  sieve ;  add 
the  burnt  sugar  and  let  it  stand  1 2  hours  longer ;  then  bottle  and  cork 
well. 

GINGER  CORDIAL. — Allow  one  drachm  of  the  essence  of  ginger  to 
two  gallons  of  spirits  ;  it  will  be  improved  if  two  or  three  drops  each 
of  essence  of  lemon  and  orange  peel  be  added  with  about  one  table- 
spoonful  of  essence  of  cardomans,  to  each  gallon  of  the  spirits.  If 
a  dark  color  is  desired,  color  with  burnt  sugar,  allowing  i  1-2  Ibs.  to 
each  gallon. 

LEMON  CORDIAL. — Steep  2  oz.  each  of  fresh  and  dried  lemon 
peel,  i  oz.  of  fresh  orange  peel,  in  i  gallon  of  spirits  for  six  or  seven 
days,  then  express  by  straining,  add  4  quarts  of  soft  clear  water  to 
bring  it  to  the  required  strength;  then  add  3  Ibs.  of  sugar  to  each 
gallon ;  to  the  above  ingredients  some  persons  add  a  little  orange 
flower  water  to  improve  it. 

LEMON  CORDIAL. — Cut  6  fresh  lemons  and  put  into  three  pints  of 
milk,  boil  them  until  the  whey  is  very  clear,  then  pass  it  through  a 
sieve.  Put  to  the  whey  3  pints  of  French  brandy  and  3  Ibs  of  clari- 
fied sugar;  stir  it  until  the  sugar  it  dissolved  ;  let  it  stand  to  refine, 
then  put  some  chips  of  lemon  peel  cut  thin  in  bottles,  and  fill  with 
the  cordial.  This  keeps  well  and  is  very  nice. 

MACCARONI  CORDIAL. — Steep  for  15  days  in  9  pints  of  brandy,  i 
Ib.  of  bitter  almonds,  with  Spanish  Angelica  root,  beaten  together, 
shaking  the  vessel  often  ;  at  the  end  of  that  time  put  the- whole  into 
a  cucubite,  and  distil  it  in  a  water  bath;  5  pints  thus  impregnated 
with  the  flavor  of  the  almonds,  and  angelica,  make  a  syrup  with  5 
Ibs.  of  sugar,  2  quarts  of  water  from  a  thousand  •  flowers,  and  3 
quarts  of  common  distilled  water,  when  this  is  mixed  with  the  spirits, 
add  30  drops  of  the  essence  of  lemon,  after  which,  filter  through 
blotting  paper. 


CORDIALS.  439 

MUSCADINE  CORDIAL. — Mash  the  muscadines  to  a  pulp,  let  them 
stand  for  a  day  and  night,  strain  the  mass  through  a  strong  muslin 
bag,  allow  1-4  of  brandy  to  3-4  of  the  juice;  sweeten  with  refined 
sugar  to  taste ;  bottle  and  cork  closely,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  dry 
place.  . 

ORANGE  CORDIAL. — A  Simple  Way. — Fill  an  air  tight  jar  with 
orange  peel,  then  pour  in  some  of  the  best  whiskey.  After  several 
weeks,  make  a  syrup,  and  add  the  whiskey  which  should  be  strained 
off;  use  when  required.  An  excellent  tonic  and  stomachic. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. — Take  very  ripe  berries,  and  crush  them 
with  the  hand  to  a  perfect  pulp,  put  them  in  a  kettle,  and  let  them 
simmer  for  3  or  4  hours,  keeping  the  vessel  covered  and  stirring  fre- 
quently; add  a  few  cloves  and  a  tablespoonful  each  of  allspice,  cin- 
namon, and  some  mace,  all  powdered  ;  strain  after  boiling,  and  set 
away  to  cool;  allow  and  mix  1-4  of  good  French  brandy  to  3-4  of 
juice.  Sweeten  with  loaf  sugar  to  taste. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. — Mrs.  H's.  Recipe. — Put  very  ripe 
berries  in  a  jar,  cover  them  with  peach  brandy,  cover  with  an  oil 
cloth  and  let  it  stand  a  week;  strain  the  brandy  from  the  fruit ;  put  in 
a  kettle  a  pound  of  crushed  sugar  for  every  quart,  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful  each  of  unpounded  cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves,  and  some  mace 
and  nutmeg.  Pour  on  the  sugar  as  much  of  the  liquor  as  will  dis- 
solve it ;  as  soon  as'it  boils  up,  pour  in  the  rest  of  the  liquor,  mix 
well,  and  bottle. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. — Our  Own — i  quart  of  blackberry  juice, 
i  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves ;  i  Ib.  of  white 
sugar,  i  pint  of  brandy.  Boil  1-4  hour;  and  bottle  it  hot. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. — i  quart  of  blackberry  juice,  i  Ib.  of  white 
sugar,  i  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon,  i  pint 
of  brandy,  i  grated  nutmeg ;  boil  it  15  minutes,  and  bottle  it  hot. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE  CORDIAL. — This  is  not  only  a  delightful  sum- 
mer drink,  but  is  good  for  all  diseases  of  the  bowels.  Take  2  pecks 
of  nice  plump  running  blackberries,  and  mash  them  well,  then  add, 
well  beaten,  4  oz.  of  allspice,  2  oz.  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves ; 
put  them  all  into  a  poicelain-lined  boiler,  and  boil  gently  until  done; 
strain  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  to  each  pint  of  the-fluid  allow  one 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  then  boil  again  till  clear,  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  when  cooling  addk  2  quarts  of  the  best  French  brandy.  Dose 
for  a  child,  i  teaspoonful,  more  or  less,  according  to  age ;  adults,  i 
tablespoonful. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. — Contributed. — i  gal.  juice,  4  Ibs.  sugar, 
cinnamon  and  cloves,  a  good  supply ;  boil  all  together,  set  off  to 
cool;  when  cold,  put  in  a  quart  of  brandy  or  rum.  Then  bottle  it 
off,  putting  spices  into  each  bottle. 


440  CORDIALS. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. — Mash  and  strain  the  berries,  put  on  the 
juice  to  boil, .skim  it  well,  and  to  every  gal.  juice  put  3  Ibs.  sugar, 
and  i  quart  spirits ;  bruise  some  cloves  and  put  in  when  cool.  Bot- 
tle. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. — To  i  gallon  blackberry  juice,  add  4  Ibs. 
of  white,  sugar,  boil  and  skim  off,  then  add  4  oz.  each  of  cloves  and 
cinnamon,  10  grated  nutmegs,  and  boil  down  till  quite  rich,  then  let 
it  cool  and  settle ;  afterwards  draw  off,  and  add  i  pint  of  brandy  or 
whiskey. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR  CORDIAL. — Infuse  in  two  quarts  of  good 
white  wine  4  Ibs.  of  not  over  ripe  red  raspberries,  for  24  hours ; 
strain  off  the  liquor,  clearing  through  a  cloth,  being  careful  not  to 
bruise  the  berries ;  add  to  the  vinegar  4  Ibs.  more  of  raspberries, 
steep  them  24  hours  and  strain  off  the  liquor  clear,  allow  i  1-2  Ibs. 
of  white,  rich  sugar,  put  into  a  stone  jar  and  cover  over  with  a 
towel,  set  it  into  a  saucepan  of  water  to  simmer  till  the  sugar  is 
melted  ;  when  cold  put  into  small  bottles,  cork  well  and  it  will  keep 
a  long  time ;  excellent  to  eat  with  sweet  sauces,  in  water  and  sugar 
to  abate  thirst;  should  be  drank  at  once,  as  it  becomes  flat. 

STRAWBERRY  CORDIAL. — Stew  ripe  strawberries  20  minutes  and 
squeeze  them  through  a  linen  bag ;  to  each  quart  of  juice  put  i  Ib. 
of  sugar,  i  pint  of  white  brandy  ;  put  it  in  a  demijohn  to  stand  two 
weeks,  then  filter  it  through  coarse  muslin,  or  fine  seive  and 
bottle  it. 

VIRGINIA  STRAWBERRY  CORDIAL. — One  quart  of  strawberries  or 
whatever  fruit  you  fancy,  i  pint  of  brandy,  sweeten  like  syrup,  let 
remain  some  days,  then  strain  and  bottle. 

CORIANDER  CORDIAL. — One  ib.  of  coriander  seed,  i  oz.  caroways, 
and  the  peel  and  juice,  i  orange  to  every  8  gal.  proof  spirit. 

CORDTAL  FOR  DYSENTERY  AND  DIARRHEA. — One  dram  rhubarb, 
i  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  steeped  in  two  cups  of  boiling  water; 
take  a  teaspoonful  every  1-4  hour  until  the  disease  is  checked. 

CHERRY  CORDIAL. — Allow  2  Ibs.  of  loaf  sugar  to  every  gallon 
of  the  boiled  and  skimmed  juice  of  the  cherry  ;  pour  a  little  water 
over  the  sugar  to  melt  it,  in  a  kettle  ;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  strain 
it  to  the  juice,  stir  it,  allow  1-2  pint  spirits  to  this  quantity;  when 
cold  bottle  closely. 

CINNAMON  CORDIAL. — One  drachm  of  oil  of  cinnamon  to  2  or 
3  gallons  of  spirits,  2  or  3  drops  of  essence  of  lemon  and  orange 
peel  will  improve  it ;  some  add  to  the  above  quantity  i  drachm  of 
cardamon  seeds  and  one  ounce  each  of  dried  orange  and  lemon 
peel ;  one  oz.  of  oil  of  cassia  is  considered  to  be  equal  to  8  pounds 
of  buds  or  barks  ;  if  wanted  dark  color  with  burnt  sugar  ;  allow  i  1-2 
pounds  to  the  gallon ;  instead  of  cinnamon  some  persons  either  use 
the  essential  oil  or  bark  of  cassia. 


CORDIALS.  44! 

EAU  DE  BARBADES  —  Citonelle.  —  Fresh  orange  peel  2  oz. ; 
fresh  lemon  peel,  4  oz. ;  cloves,  1-2  drachm  ;  corianders  and  cin- 
namon of  each  i  drachm;  proof  spirits,  4  pints;  digest  for  ten  days, 
then  add  water  i  quart  and  distil  1-2  gallon;  to  the  rectified  cordial 
add  white  sugar  2  pounds. 

EGG  CORDIAL. — A  teaspoonful  of  cream,  the  white  of  a  very  fresh 
egg,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  brandy;  whip  first  the  egg  to 'nearly  a 
froth,  then  the  cream  with  the  egg  ;  add  the  brandy  by  degrees  and 
mix  well ;  do  not  let  it  stand  after  it  is  made  ;  this  is  very  nourish- 
ing, and  so  light  it  will  remain  in  the  stomach  when  nothing  else 
will ;  a  valuable  cordial  for  weak  lungs. 

BLACKBERRY  BRANDY.  —  U.  S.  Sanitary  Commission  Recipes. — 
Eleven  quarts  of  blackberries,  make  i  gallon  of  juice;  to  i  gallon  of 
juice,  add  4  pounds  of  white  sugar,  boil  and  skim  it,  add  i  oz.  of 
cloves,  i  oz.  of  cinnamon,  10  grated  nutmegs,  boil  again,  when 
cold,  add  i  pint  of  the  best  whisky  or  brandy. 

To  TEST  GOOD  BRANDY. — The  strength  of  brandy  may  be  deter- 
mined by  olive  oil  or  tallow,  both  of  which  will  sink  in  good 
brandy. 

IRISH  WHISKY — Dr.  Flobereau. — First,  i  gallon  brandy,  i  pound 
stoned  raisins,  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmegs,  cardamons,  each  i  oz  , 
crushed  in  a  mortar,  saffron  1-2  oz.,  rind  of  California  orange  and 
sugar  candy.  Shake  these  well ;  fourteen  days  afterward  fine  for 
use. 

LEMON  BRANDY. — i  pint  of  good  brandy,  the  rind  of  two  small 
lemons,  2  oz.  of  loaf  sugar,  1-4  pint  of  water;  peel  the  lemons 
rather  thin,  taking  care  to  have  none  of  the  white  pith  ;  put  the  rinds 
into  a  bottle  with  the  brandy  and  let  them  steep  for  24  hours  ;  strain 
them;  boil  the  sugar  with  the  water  for  a  few  minutes,  skim  it,  and, 
when  cold,  add  it  to  the  brandy ;  a  desert  spoonful  will  be  found  an 
excellent  flavoring  for  boiled  custards. 

ORANGE  BRANDY. — To  every  1-2  gallon  of  brandy  allow  3-4  pint 
of  California  orange  juice,  11-2  pounds  of  loaf  sugar.  To  fully 
develop  the  flavor  of  the  orange  peel,  rub  a  few  lumps  of  the 
sugar  on  two  or  three  unpared  oranges,  and  put  these  lumps  aside. 
Mix  the  brandy  with  the  orange  juice,  strained,  the  rinds  of  six  of 
the  oranges  pared  thin  and  the  sugar.  Let  all  stand  in  a  closely 
covered  jar  for  three  days,  stirring  it  three  or  four  times  a  day. 
When  clear  it  should  be  bottled  and  corked  closely  for  a  year ;  it 
will  then  be  ready  for  use  and  will  keep  for  any  length  of  time.  This 
is  a  most  excellent  stomachic,  when  given  in  small  quantities ;  as  the 
strength  of  the  brandy  is  very  little  deteriorated  by  the  other  ingre- 
dients, it  may  be  diluted  with  water. 

BLACK  CHERRY  BRANDY. — To  4  pounds  of  stoned  black  cherries 


442  FRUIT  ICES  AND  SYRUPS. 

add  3  quarts  of  brandy ;  bruise  the  stones  and  add  them  to  the 
mixture ;  infuse  for  a  month ;  filter  and  add  the  flavoring  ingre- 
dients and  syrup  as  directed  (cinnamon  and  cloves)  to  taste. 
Liquors  flavored  with  the  kernels  of  fruits  should  not  be  sweet.  A 
weaker  decoction  may  be  obtained  by  pouring  more  spirits  in  the 
fruit.  Some  persons  object  to  all  perfumes  in  compounds  of  this 
kind. 

MORILLO  CHERRY  BRANDY. — Pick  morillo  or  black  cherries  from 
the  stalks  and  drop  them  into  bottles  till  the  bottles  are  three-fourths 
full,  fill  up  with  brandy  or  whisky.  In  three  weeks  strain  off  the 
spirits  and  season  with  cinnamon  and  clove  mixture,  as  in  the  rasp- 
berry brandy,  adding  syrup  to  taste.  Ratafia  in  liquors  seasoned 
with  kernels  of  fruits  should  be  rich,  but  not  sweet. 

COMMON  RATAFIA. — Take  i  oz.  of  pounded  nutmegs,  1-2  pound 
of  almonds,  scalded,  skinned  and  chopped,  and  i  grain  of  amber- 
gris well  rubbed  with  sugar  in  a  mortar.  Infuse  in  2  quarts  of  proof 
spirits  for  a  fortnight  and  filter. 

EAU  DE  VIE. — Thinly  pare  7  large  oranges  or  lemons,  or  part  of 
each;  dissolve  and  clear  6  oz.  of  double-refined  sugar  in  half  a  pint 
of  pure  water ;  this  should  be  done  in  a  silver  or  glass  vessel. 
When  quite  clear  add  to  it  1-4  pint  of  milk,  warm  from  the  cow  ;  if 
that  cannot  be  obtained  rich  new  milk  restored  to  that  degree  of 
warmth ;  then  put  into  an  earthen  vessel  or  large  bottle  the  rind, 
syrup  and  milk,  with  a  quart  of  old  rum  or  French  brandy.  Per- 
fumes may  be  used  if  desired. 

FRUIT  ICES  AND  SYRUPS. 

ALMOND  AND  RASPBERRY  IcES.^-Blanch,  peel  and  pound  1-2  Ib. 
of  sweet  almonds  and  1-2  oz.  bitter  almonds:  boil  3  pints  of  double 
cream;  when  cool  add  1-2  Ib.  of  pounded  sugar  and  12  yolks  of 
eggs,  stir  over  the  fire  without  boiling  until  the  egg  thickens  ;  add 
the  pounded  almonds  and  i  tablespoonful  of  cherry  brandy,  and 
strain  the  whole  through  a  tammy  cloth  into  a  basin.  Mix  i  quart 
of  raspl)"rry  juice  and  i  quart  of  hot  syrup,  and  strain  through  a 
silk  sieve.  Set  2  freezing  pots  in  the  ice,  put  the  almond  cream  in 
i  pot  and  the  raspberry  syrup  in  another;  freeze  and  work  the  ices, 
draw  the  water  out  of  the  pails,  replenish  them  with  fresh  ice  and 
bay  salt,  close  the  freezing  pots  and  cover  them  wiith  ice  and  put  a 
wet  cloth  on  the  top :  pile  the  ices  up  on  a  napkin  on  a  dish  in  reg- 
ular layers,  mingling  the  colors,  and  serve. 

BURNT  ALMOND  AND  ORANGE  ICE. — Chop  2  ounces  of  blanched 
almonds,  melt  2  tablespoonfuls  of  pounded  sugar  in  a  sugar  boiler, 
add  the  chopped  almonds  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  they  assume  a 


FRUIT  ICES  AND  SYRUPS.  443 

red-brown  color,  and  spread,  them  on  a  baking  sheet;  boil  i  1-2 
pints  of  double  cream ;  put  6  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  stew  pan  with 
1-4  pound  of  pounded  sugar,  add  the  boiled  cream  and  stir  over  the 
fire  until  the  eggs  thickens  ;  pound  the  burnt  almonds  in  a  mortar, 
add  them  to  the  cream  and  strain  the  whole  through  a  tammy  cloth 
into  a  basin.  Mix  i  pint  of  orange  juice  with  i  pint  of  syrup  in 
which  some  orange  peel  has  been  steeping,  and  strain  through  a 
silk  sieve.  Squeeze  the  ices  and  mould  them  together,  as  described 
for  strawberry  cream. 

ICED  CHAMPAGNE  GRANITE  WITH  STRAWBERRIES. — Set  a  freezing 
pot  in  some  pounded  ice  and  bag  salt,  pour  i  quart  of  warm  syrup 
and  2  bottles  of  champagne,  let  it  freeze  to  icicles,  and  add  i  Ib. 
of  picked  strawberries,  and  serve  the  granite  in  glasses. 

N.  B.  The  above  quantity  is  calculated  for  twenty-two  or  twenty- 
four  persons. 

ICED  LEMON  GRANITE. — Set  a  freezing  pot  in  the  ice  and  pour  in 
3  pints  of  syrup  and  i  gill  of  filtered  lemon  juice  ;  freeze  it  into 
icicles  and  and  serve  the  granite  in  glasses. 

ICED  ORANGE  GRANITE. — Remove  the  peel  of  6  oranges,  cut  them 
into  quarters,  removing  all  the  white  skin  and  pips;  put  the  pieces  of 
orange  in  a  basin  with  3  pints  of  syrup,  let  them  steep  2  hours,  then 
drain  them  and  strain  the  syrup  through  a  silk  sieve  into  a  freezing- 
pot  ;  set  in  ice.  When  the  syrup  is  frozen  to  icicles  put  in  the  pieces 
of  orange,  cover  the  freezing  pot  for  20  minutes,  and  serve  the 
granite  in  glasses. 

PARFAIT  AU  COFFEE. — Roast  1-2  pound  of  coffee  in  a  copper 
pan,  boil  3  pints  of  double  cream,  put  the  coffee  in  it,  cover  the 
stew  pan  and  let  the  coffee  steep  for  i  hour.  Put  12  yolks  of 
eggs  in  a  stew  pan  with  1-2  pound  of  pounded  sugar,  strain  the 
cream,  add  it  to  the  eggs  in  the  stew  pan,  stir  over  the  fire  with- 
out boiling  until  it  thickens,  and  strain  through  a  tammy  cloth. 
Set  in  a  freezing  pot  and  parboil,  mould  in  some  pounded  ice 
and  bag  salt,  put  the  cream  in  the  freezing  pot  and  work  it  with 
the  spatula.  When  the  cream  is  partly  frozen  add  1-2  gill  of 
syrup.  Continue  working  the  cream,  and  when  the  syrup  is  well 
mixed  add  another  1-2  gill  of  syrup  and  i  quart  of  well-whipped 
cream.  Fill  the  mould  with  the  iced  cream,  close  it  hermetri- 
cally  and  imbibe  it  in  the  ice  for  2  hours.  Turn  the  parfait  out  of 
the  mould  on  a  napkin  on  a  dish  and  serve- 

COFFEE  ICE. — Take  strong  and  clear  coffee,  sweeten  it  well  with 
loaf  sugar  and  allow  to  2-3  coffee  1-3  cream.  Freeze  as  any  other 
cream. 

To  CLARIFY  SUGAR  OR  SYRUP  FOR  FRUIT  AND  ICED  DRINKS. — 
Allow  1-2  pint  of  water  and  1-2  white  of  an  egg  to  i  Ib.  of  sugar. 


444  ICE»  FREEZERS,  ETC. 

The  egg  should  be  well  beaten.  Put  them  all  into  a  preserving  or 
an  enameled  kettle,  add  the  sugar,  dissolve  z  minutes,  then  put  it  on 
the  fire ;  when  it  boils  5  minutes  throw  in  a  teacupful  of  water. 
After  this  is  added  do  not  stir  the  sugar.  Bring  it  to  the  boiling  point 
again,  then  place  the  pan  by  the  fire  for  the  preparation  to  settle. 
Remove  all  the  scum  and  the  sugar  will  be  ready  for  use.  The  scum 
should  be  placed  in  a  sieve,  so  that  what  runs  from  the  sieve  may 
be  boiled  up  again.  This  must  be  well  skimmed  also. 

FRUIT  ICE  WATERS. — To  every  pint  of  fruit  juice  allow  i  pint  of 
the  above  syrup.  Select  the  nice,  ripe  fruit,  pick  it  well  and  put  it 
into  a  large  earthen  pan  or  bowl  with  a  little  pounded  sugar  over  it. 
Stir  the  fruit  with  an  earthen  spoon  until  it  is  well  broken,  then  rub 
it  through  a  hair  sieve.  In  using  the  above  syrup  it  is  better  to 
omit  the  eggs.  Let  it  cool,  add  the  fruit  juice;  then  mix  well  to- 
gether and  put  the  mixture  into  a  freezing  pot.  When  the  mixture 
is  equally  frozen  put  it  into  small  glasses.  Blackberry,  strawberry, 
currant  and  other  fresh  fruit  water  ices  are  made  in  the  same  man- 
ner. Take  30  minutes  to  freeze  the  mixture.  . 

GINGER  BEER  POWDERS. — One  pound  of  finely  powdered  white 
sugar,  super  carbonate  of  soda  2  1-2  ounces,  1-2  ounce  each  of 
gum  arabic  and  ginger  in  powder,  36  drops  oil  of  lemon ;  mix  and 
divide  into  36  powders,  put  into  white  paper;  put  36  grains  of  tar- 
taric  acid  in  blue  papers.  The  powders  in  the  white  papers  should 
first  be  dissolved,  and  afterwards  add  the  contents  of  the  blue 
paper. 

ICE,  FREEZERS,  ETC. 

ICE  TO  PRESERVE. — Put  the  ice  in  a  deep  dish,  cover  with  the  top 
or  plate  and  place  the  dish  on  a  feather  pillow  and  cover  the  top 
with  another  carefully  to  exclude  the  external  air,  and  cover  with  a 
blanket. 

ANOTHER  WAY. — Make  2  bags  of  stout  woolen  fabric ;  the  outer 
bag  should  be  made  at  least  2  inches  wider  each  way  than  the  in- 
ner one.  After  placing  one  bag  inside  the  other,  stuff  feathers  be- 
tween the  two  and  sew  the  bags  together  at  the  top.  A  block  of  ice 
thus  treated  will  keep  well  from  melting  a  week ;  otherwise  it  would 
melt  in  an  hour. 

NOTE — Blankets  should  be  wrapped  over  it  and  the  bags  may  be 
made  of  blankets  and  others  rolled  around. 

To  KEEP  ME^T  FROZEN. — After  the  meat  is  frozen,  tie  in  papers 
and  pack  in  a  flour  barrel  with  clean  straw,  pushing  the  straw  down 
tightly  with  a  thin  lath,  then  put  the  board  in  a  box  5  or  6  inches 
larger  than  the  barrel  every  way,  and  fill  the  space  with  the  saw- 
dust. 


ICE,  FREEZERS,  ETC.  445 

HOW  TO  KEEP  THE  SMALLEST    PORTION  OF    ICE  FOR    THE   SlCK. — 

Take  a  piece  of  flimsy  flannel  of  thin  texture  and  cut  it  about  9 
or  ten  inches  square  and  tie  it  firmly  around  a  cup  or  tumbler, leave 
a  depression  reaching  half  way  down  the  tumbler,  then  fill  the  de- 
pression with  ice,  then  over  the  top  place  loosely  a  piece  of  open 
or  thin  flannel  4  or  5  inches  square.  This  will  keep  the  ice  for  10 
or  ii  hours,  for  the  ice,  as  it  meits  and  the  water  drains  through  the 
flannel  leaves  it  dry.  Two  ounces  of  ice  has  been  known  to  keep 
in  this  way  for  more  than  10  hours.  If  thick  flannel  is  used,  cut  a 
small  hole  in  the  bottom  depression  for  the  water  to  pass  through;  a 
cup  or  any  vessel  will  do  as  well  as  a  tumbler.  An  economical  plan 
for  preserving  ice  when  it  is  scarce,  for  the  sick. 

ICE  FOR  KEEPING  FRUITS  OR  VEGETABLES. — The  field. — Lay  the 
fruit  or  vegetables  on  cotton  in  tia  boxes  (biscuit  boxes  will  do) 
without  any  packing  about  them.  Shut  down  the  lid  and  simply  set 
the  boxes  in  the  ice.  Peaches  will  keep  in  this  way  a  month  after 
they  are  dead  ripe  and  nectarines  6  weeks,  placing  them  in  shallow 
tin  boxes  with  cotton  between  them.  When  taken  from  the  ice  they 
should  be  used  at  once.  Melons  will  keep  3  or  4  weeks;  cucumbers 
will  keep  a  long  time  ;  French  beans  should  be  packed  in  bundles 
and  set  on  their  ends. 

ICE  TO  KEEP  FOR  A  WEEK. — Wrap  tightly  a  piece  of  flannel  twice 
around  a  piece  of  ice,  then  wind  around  a  bag  of  hair  or  any  kind 
of  feathers.  Then  over  this  pin  a  piece  of  flannel,  a  woolen  gar- 
ment or  blanket,  or  even  straw, but  it  is  not  so  good;  keep  in  a 
cool  place,  or  a  hole  in  the  ground  or  a  cool  room. 

How  TO  FREEZE  QUICKLY. — The  freezing  pot  or  mould  must  be 
well  set.  Place  it  in  the  center  of  the  pail ;  it  must  be  large  enough 
to  give  a  space  of  4  inches  all  around.  Break  up  13  pounds  of  ice, 
which  put  around  the  bottom  six  inches  in  depth,  over  which  put  2 
pounds  of  salt;  beat  down  tight  with  a  rolling  pin,  then  more  ice, 
then  salt,  and  thus  continue  until  within  3  inches  of  the  top  of  the 
freezing  pot  or  mould.  Saltpetre  mixed  with  the  salt  will  facilitate 
it  in  freezing. 

FREEZING  WITHOUT  ICE. — Put  3  pints  of  pure  spring  water  into  a 
gallon  stone  jug,  then  add  2  ounces  of  pure  saltpetre  (nitre)  in  fine 
powder;  stop  the  jug  very  closely  and  let  it  down  into  a  deep  well 
for  3  hours  or  longer,  when  the  water  will  have  become  solid  ice, 
but  to  obtain  it  the  jug  must  be  broken. 

NOTE — If  the  jug  is  plunged  up  and  down  into  and  out  of 
the  water  it  will  freeze  much  more  readily. 

To  KEKP  ICE  WATER  COLD. — Place  between  2  sheets  of  batting 
1-2  inch  thick;  place  the  ends  of  the  paper  and  batting  together, 
forming  a  cylinder  like  a  section  of  a  stove  pipe.  Place  this  over 


446  ICE,  FREEZERS,  ETC. 

an  ordinary  pitcher  filled  with  ice  water,  making  it  deep  enough 
to  rest  on  the  table.  Put  over  the  top  a  circular  cover  made  in 
the  same  way  as  the  cylinder.  This  will  keep  boiling  water  hot 
as  \vdl  as  ice  water  cold,  since  it  excludes  the  air  from  either. 

MATCHLESS  FREEZING  PREPARATION. — Common  sal  ammoniac 
well  pulverized,  i  part,  saltpetre,  2  parts ;  mix  well  together,  then  take 
common  soda  well  pulverized.  To  use  :  Take  equal  parts  of  this 
preparation  (which  must  be  kept  separate  and  well  covered  previous 
to  using),  and  then  put  into  the  freezing-pot ;  add  of  water  a  proper 
quantity  and  put  in  the  article  to  be  frozen  in  a  proper  vessel,  cover 
up  and  your  wants  are  supplied. 

NOTE — For  freezing  cream  or  wines  this  cannot  be  beaten. 

LEMON  AND  FRUIT  ICES. — J.  C. — Add  the  whites  of  6  eggs  beaten 
to  a  solid  froth  to  i  quart  of  rich  lemonade.  Freeze  it.  Straining 
and  sweetening  any  kind  of  fruit  juice  before  putting  in  the  egg-, 
will  do. 

ICED  APPLES. — Pare  and  core  i  dozen  large  apples,  fill  with  su- 
gar, very  little  butter  and  cinnamon,  bake  till  nearly  done,  let  them 
cool,  and  if  you  can,  without  breaking,  put  on  another  dish;  if  not, 
pour  off  the  juice,  having  some  icing  prepared ;  lay  on  top  and  side 
and  set  it  into  the  oven  a  minute  or  two  to  brown  slightly.  Serve 
with  cream. 

ICK  FOR  KEEPING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. — The  field. — Lay  the 
fruit  upon  cotton  in  any  kind  of  tin  box  without  being  particular  as 
to  order.  Then  simply  place  the  box  on  the  ice,  but  do  not  sur- 
round it  with  the  ice.  Even  dead  ripe  fruit  may  be  kept  in  this  way 
for  more  than  a  month,  but  in  this  case  the  tin  boxes  should  be  shal- 
low, with  a  piece  of  cotton  between  the  fruit,  leaving  them  other- 
wise uncovered.  They  should  be  used  as  soon  as  taken  from  the 
ice.  Melons  will  keep  for  weeks  in  this  way,  or  in  an  ice  house. 
I  have  eaten  them  after  being  kept  for  6  weeks  by  simply  putting 
them  in  an  ice  house.  Cucumbers  will  keep  a  long  time  by  putting 
them  in  tin  boxes,  as  the  fruit. 

MANNER  OF  FREEZING  FRUIT  WATER. — Put  the  freezing  can  into 
a  pail  containing  pounded  ice,  upon  which  is  sprinkled  saltpetre  or 
common  salt,  then  surround  the  can  with  pounded  ice  and  saltpetre 
or  common  salt  nearly  to  the  top.  Wipe  the  cover  and  edges  of 
the  can,  pour  in  the  .preparation  and  close  the  lid,  wait  15  minutes 
and  then  begin  turning  the  freezing  pot  from  right  to  left;  when  the 
mixture  begins  to  freeze  around  the  sides  of  the  pot,  stir  it  about 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  that  the  congealation  may  be  equal,  close  the 
lid  again  and  continue  to  work  from  right  to  left,  as  before,  and  from 
time  to  time  remove  the  ice  from  the  sides  to  equalize  it ;  and  it 
should  remain  on  the  ice  till  wanted  for  the  table. 


ICE,  FREEZERS,  ETC.  447 

THE  BEST  FREEZING  POT  is  made  of  pewter,  as  the  freezing  is 
more  equal  and  smoother  and  thorough  ;  the  tin  freezing  pot  con- 
geals too  rapidly  for  that,  and  the  thorough  mingling  of  its  contents, 
upon  which  the  excellence  of  the  ice  depends.  Instead  of  a  wood- 
en spoon,  a  copper  one  may  be  used  as  it  is  stronger,  but  it  should 
be  kept  bright  and  clean.  The  ice  tub  is  prepared  with  fresh 
pounded  ice  and  salt,  the  freezing  pot  is  put  in  it  and  surrounded 
with  the  preparation  to  the  top  of  the  cover;  when  the  ingredients  to 
be  frozen  are  not  of  equal  gravity,  to  prevent  their  separation  and 
the  heaviest  falling  to  the  bottom  of  the  can,  it  is  important  to  turn 
it  round  and  round  by  the  handle,  to  keep  its  contents  moving  until 
congealation  commences  ;  by  neglecting  this,  the  whole  contents  of 
the  freezing  pot  may  be  destroyed,  lumps  may  be  formed,  the  sugar 
sink  to  the  bottom,  leaving  the  cream  insufficiently  sweetened  ;  re- 
move, as  soon  as  formed  the  frozen  portions  from  the  sides  of  the 
freezer  and  stir  it.  Delicate  and  aged  persons  and  children  should 
abstain  from  ices  or  iced  drinks,  and  persons  in  health  should  not 
use  them  too  freely.  They  should  be  taken  just  after  or  some  hours 
after  a  meal ;  that  is,  before  digestion  fully  commences,  or  after  it  is 
completed;  cold  fruits  impede  digestion  and  often  provoke  indispo- 
sition. They  should  be  abstained  from  by  persons  when  very  warm, 
or  immediately  after  taking  violent  exercise;  when  indulged  in  under 
such  circumstances,  they  have  produced  illness,  which  has  ended  fatal- 
ly. The  use  of  ices  was  first  introduced  by  Catharine  De  Medici.  Could 
these  cooling  and  refreshing  preparations  have  mitigated  the  fire  of 
her  bigotry,  then  the  massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew  had  never 
occurred. 

COLORING  TO  STAIN  JELLIES,  ICES  OR  CAKES. — For  a  beautiful  red, 
boil  15  grains  of  cochineal  in  the  finest  powder,  with  i  1-2  drachms 
of  cream  of  tartar,  in  1-2  pint  of  water,  very  slowly,  1-2  hour,  adding 
in  boiling,  a  bit  of  alum  the  size  of  a  pea  ;  or,  use  beet  root  sliced, 
and  some  liquor  poured  over  it. 

FOR  WHITE — Use  almonds  finely  powdered,  with  a  little  drop  of 
water,  or  use  cream. 

FOR  YELLOW — Yolks  of  eggs,  or  a  bit  of  saffron  steeped  in  the 
liquor  and  squeezed. 

FOR  GREEN — Pound  Spinach  leaves  or -beet  leaves  (the  white 
sugar  beet),  express  the  juice,  and  boil  in  a  teacup  within  a  saucer 
of  water  to  take  off  the  rawness. 

ICE  WATERS. — Rub  some  fine  sugar  on  lemon  or  orange  to  give 
color  or  flavor,  then  squeeze  the  juice  of  either  on  its  respective 
peel,  add  water  and  sugar  to  make  a  fine  sherbet,  and  strain  it  be- 
fore it  is  put  into  the  ice  pot.  If  orange  the  greater  proportion 
should  be  the  best  orange  juice  and  a  small  bit  of  the  peel  grated 
by  the  sugar. 


448  THE  FARM. 

THE  MOVING  of  any  fluid  accelerates  the  cold ;  and  likewise,  when 
any  fluid  is  tending  to  heat,  stirring  will  facilitate  its  boiling. 

WEST  INDIAN  SYRUP. — To  i  gallon  of  boiling  water,  put  5  Ibs.  of 
loaf  sugar,  and  2  oz.  of  citric  acid;  when  cold,  add  1-2  dram  of 
essence  of  lemon,  and  1-2  dram  of  spirits  of  wine  ;  stir  it  well  to- 
gether and  bottle.  2  tablespoonfuls  to  a  glass  of  water,  (very  cold), 
makes  a  delicious  summer  drink. 

PINE  APPLE  SYRUP. — Boil  i  quart  of  syrup  until  it  falls,  to  this, 
add  i  pint  of  pine  apple  juice ;  let  it  boil,  remove  the  scum  and 
bottle. 

GINGER  SYRUP. — Ginger  root,  i  oz.  (bruised);  boil  10  minutes  in 
i  pint  of  water.  If  flavoring  is  desired,  select. 

SARSAPARILLA  SYRUP. — i  oz.  extract  liquorice,  dissolve  in  i  pint  of 
boiling  water,  and  add  to  i  gallon  of  good  molasses  or  syrup;  add 
also  i  drachm  oil  of  sassafras,  1-2  drachm  oil  of  wintergreen,  dis- 
solved in  1-2  oz.  of  alcohol. 

LEMON  SYRUP. — 4  Ibs.  sugar,  2  pints  water;  boil,  and  when  cool 
add  i  oz,  tartaric  acid,  and  i  drachm  of  oil  of  lemon  ;  dissolve  in  1-2 
oz.  of  alcohol,  and  also  2  ounces  mucilage  of  gum  aaabic. 

SEIDLITZ  POWDERS, — 6  oz.  Rochelle  salts,   2  oz.  super-carbonate 
soda  ;  mix  and  divide  into  24  powders  ;  put  them  in  white  papers 
into  the  blue  papers  put  30  grains  of  tartaric  acid. 

THE  FARM. 

WASHINGTON  managed  his  mother's  farm  in  boyhood,  and  looked 
after  the  cattle. 

GIRLS  should  be  taught  to  look  after  the  poultry  and  have  some  of 
their  own,  and  even  this  is  well  for  boys,  for  I  have  seen  the  happy 
effect  of  it.  It  cultivates  industrious  habits  and  they  soon  fall  in 
love  with  it,  and  then  it  keeps  them  out  of  the  way  of  temptation. 
Point  them  to  suggestions  on  the  subject  and  this  will  cause  them 
to  look  into  things  and  cultivates  an  enquiring  mind. 

THE  FARMER,  WHAT  HE  DOES.— -He  feeds  all  peoples  and  nations, 
supports  every  enterprise,  pursuit,  calling  and  professions,  and  among 
all  civilized  nations  in  every  age  of  the  world,  not  only  the  farmer, 
but  the  profession  has  been  held  in  the  highest  honor,  and  was  regard- 
ed as  the  basis  not  only  of  individual  comfort  and  success,  but  of 
national  greatness.  If  the  soil  locks  up  its  treasures,  then  all  enter- 
prises perish,  and  the  world  is  in  woe  and  want.  The  sun  of  pros- 
perity is  in  total  eclipse.  When  Rome  was  in  her  agricultural  glory, 
several  of  her  noblest  families  derived  their  patronyms  from 
some  vegetables  which  they  were  famous  for  raising,  such  as  the 
Tabii  pea,  Sentuli,  Cicerones,  etc.,  etc.  Cato  says  :  "Study  to  have. 


THE  FARM.  449 

a  large  dung  hill,"  and  to  this  I  would  add,  "Treat  your  dumb  labor- 
ers as  inferior  brothers,  deprived  of  speech."  In  his  immortal 
Georgics,  Virgil  sings  to  its  praise,  and  Cato  extols  it  in  his  highest 
philosophy. 

To  MAKE  MARSHY  PLACES  HEALTHY,  our  lady  farmers  should  cul- 
tivate, in  swamps,  the  following  trees  and  flowers,  namely :  The 
blue  gum,  cherry,  laurel,  juniper,  lemon,  pine,  cedar,  clovus,  laven- 
der, mint,  fennel,  bergamot,  anis,  nutmeg  and  thyme ;  and  the  flow- 
ers of  the  narcissus,  hyacinth,  mignonette,  heliotrope  and  lily  of  the 
vally.  These  flowers  have  a  powerful  oxidizing  influence  of  ozone, 
and  are  recommended  to  be  planted  in  marshy  districts  and  all  places 
infested  with  animal  emanations,  thus  producing  a  healthful  influ- 
ence. It  is  easily  done.  Flowers  without  perfume  do  not  deve1- 
op  ozone. 

JUVENILE  FARMERS. — Since  every  boy  expects  to  come  in  poses- 
sion  of  a  farm,  they  should,  while  boys,  learn  everything  about  it, 
and  even  how  to  dispose  of  their  grain,  as  well  as  to  grow  it;  to  take 
care  of  cattle  and  sell  it,  and  also  their  sheep  and  wool.  This  should 
be  a  nucleus. 

SWEET  POTATO  VINES  can  be  kept  through  the  winter.  "Before 
the  frost,  cut  the  vines  to  a  suitable  length  and  place  in  layers  in  the 
surface  of  the  earth  at  the  depth  of  i  to  i  1-2  feet,  cover  the  vines 
with  partially  rotted  straw  to  the  depth  of  i  1-2  feet  and  cover  the 
whole  with  a  light  soil  about  4  inches  deep.  By  this  method  the 
vines  will  keep  through  the  winter,  and  in  the  spring  they  will  sprout 
out  as  abundantly  as  the  potato  itself,  When  bedded,  the  draws  or 
sprouts  can  be  planted  first  and  the  vine  can  be  subsequently  cut 
and  used  as  slips  are  generally  planted. 

THE  SILK  WoitMS  IN  CHINA  are  fed  on  the  leaf  of  the  white  mul- 
berry. 

SILK  WORMS. — Mrs.  Andrews. — One  oz.  of  eggs,  if  good,  will  pro- 
duce about  40,000  worms,  and  then,  when  at  their  full  growth  will  re- 
quire about  185  square  feet  of  shelf  room.  They  will  eat  about 
1500  or  1600  pounds  of  mulberry  leaves  during  their  growth  and 
should  produce  from  45  to  50  pounds  of  cocoons.  From  these  data 
readers  can  make  their  own  calculations. 

AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  FARM. — Probably  no  class  enjoy  life  better 
than  our  farmers.  The  pursuit  of  agriculture  is  itself  a  pleasure  to 
those  who  view  it  rightly  ;  children  in  the  country  are  seldom  want- 
ing for  amusement,  and  the  corn  huskings  and  the  quilting  bees  form 
green  spots  in  the  memory  of  many  a  man,  whose  boyhood  was  pass- 
ed upon  the  farm.  A  favorite  amusement  with  the  young  and  often 
relished  by  "children  of  larger  growth,"  is  the  construction  and  parad- 
ing after  night-fall  of  jack-o'-lantefrns.  The  golden  pumpkin  is  taken. 


450  "fME  FARM. 

from  the  store  within  the  granary  or  chosen  from  frost  bitten  vines, 
and  having  been  subjected  to  the  process  of  scooping,  is  made  ready 
for  the  chisel  of  the  embryo  sculptor ;  with  cunning  hand  our  young 
artist  applies  his  unerring  jack-knife  to  the  glistening  rind.  At  first 
he  traces  with  delicate  touch  the  outline  of  features,  which  he  possi- 
bly intends  to  be  majestic, — Jove  like  in  their  effect  upon  the  behol- 
der. The  features  having  been  determined  on,  the  chiseling 
knife  cuts  deeper,  until  only  a  paper  like  thickness  of  the  inner  rind 
remains.  The  fragment  of  a  tallow  candle  is  then  inserted  through 
a  hole  in  the  top  of  the  disembowelled  pumpkin  and  the  lantern  is 
ready  for  exhibition,  when  the  candle  is  lighted,  and  it  is  carried  in- 
to a  group  of  children.  It  is  a  source  of  infinite  amusement  to  the 
larger  ones,  though  the  "wee  small  children"  appear  startled,  and  if 
we  did  not  know  the  origin,  we  think  that  few  of  us  could  withstand 
such  a  genii-like  glance  as  flashes  from  the  outer  features  of  the 
average  jack-o'-lantern. 

FARM  YARDS  should  be  kept  dry  and  warm  with  shelters  for  the 
cattle,  hogs  and  poultry;  then  they  would  keep  healthy  and  prosper. 

A  PIT  OR  TANK — Should  be  kept  on  every  ranch  or  farm  to 
receive  the  dish  water,  offal  of  vegetables  and  animals,  &c.,  which 
the  cook  should  throw  into  a  tub  for  the  purpose.  It  should  be 
emptied  daily  into  this  pit,  which  should  be  closely  shut  by  doors 
on  hinges  with  an  apperture  to  open  it,  of  a  foot  and  one-half 
square,  with  a  ring  to  lift  it  by,  to  pour  in  the  contents  of  the 
tub.  No  unpleasant  smell  should  be  allowed  to  escape  from  it. 
The  contents  of  this  pit  will  form  valuable  manure  for  garden  or 
field  purposes.  Or  if  pigs  are  kept,  pieces  of  bread,  stale  bread 
crusts,  bacon  rinds,  pieces  of  meat,  stale  milk,  the  washings  of 
greasy  pots,  vegetables,  &c.,  can  be  put  in  a  tub  for  the  pigs. 
The  mistress  should  see  that  nothing  is  wasted,  and  if  her  cook  is 
extravagant  or  wasteful,  she  had  better  change  her  for  one  more 
economical.  For  extravagance  and  waste  will  produce  want  some- 
where ;  and  it  may  fall  on  the  family  of  the  employer,  but  more 
likely  on  the  cook. 

To  DRIVE  RATS  FROM  A  BUILDING. — Dissolve  2  ounces  of  glue,  2 
ounces  of  assafoetida,  2  ounces  of  potash  in  water,  and  add  1-2  oz. 
of  phosphorus  to  the  mixture.  Then  in  a  wire  cage  or  trap  baited 
with  corn  meal  scented  with  oil  of  anis  catch  2  or  3  rats  ;  if  they 
are  very  numerous  more  will  be  necessary.  Singe  the  hair  partly  off 
these  in  such  a  way  as  to  hurt  them  as  little  as  possible,  then  give 
them  a  slight  coating  with  the  above  mixture  heated  warm ;  let  them 
loose  in  their  holes,  and  there  will  be  no  more  trouble  with  the  rats 
for  months  to  come.  This  mixture  will  last  for  2  years.  Or,  take 
chloride  of  lime  and  scatter  it  dry  all  around  their  holes  and  where- 
ever  they  haunt,  and  they  will  leave  at  once. 


THE    FARM.  451 

To  FREE  BARNS  AND  OUT-HOUSES  FROM  MITES  AND  WEEVILS. — 
— Let  the  walls  and  rafters,  above  and  below,  of  the  gran- 
aries be  completely  covered  with  quick  lime  slacked  in  water,  in 
which  trefoil,  worm  wood  and  hyssop  or  max  vomica  have  been 
boiled.  This  composition  should  be  applied  as  hot  as  possible.  A 
farmer  who  had  his  granaries  empty  in  June  last  collected  quanti- 
ties of  the  largest  sized  ants  in  sacks  and  scattered  them  about  the 
place  infected  with  weevils.  The  ants  at  once  fell  upon  and  devoured 
them  all. 

To  DESTROY  THE  WEEVIL  IN  GRAIN. — Soak  linen  cloths  in  water 
wring  them  out  and  cover  your  grain  with  them;  in  2  hour's  time  you 
will  find  all  the  weevils  upon  the  cloth,  which  must  be  carefully  gath- 
ered off,  that  none  of  the  insects  may  escape,  and  then  immerse  in 
hot  water  to  destroy  them. 

To  PURIFY  TALLOW  ON  A  GRANGE. — The  fresh  tallow  is  melted 
in  boiling  water,  and  when  completely  dissolved,  and  consequently 
hot,  is  passed  through  a  linen  filter,  then  rendered  solid  by  cool- 
ing and  washing  with  water,  and  lastly  separated  from  it  carefully 
by  pressure.  It  may  be  melted  at  a  moderate  heat  and  preserved 
in  earthen  vessels  covered  with  a  bladder,  paper  or  good  closing 
lid.  If  the  linen  filter  is  not  thick  enough  to  keep  the  other  in- 
gredients from  passing  through  besides  the  liquid  tallow  and  wa- 
ter, it  is  better  to  repeat  the  filtration.  Tallow  thus  obtained  may 
be  used  for  ordinary  food ;  for  pomades,  by  the  addition  of  pure 
olive  oil ;  for  salves  and  plasters,  by  the  addition  of  white  wax,  and 
may  be  kept  well  preserved  for  a  time  as  free  from  smell  as  when 
prepared.  By  following  the  above  directions  the  tallow  will  keep  a 
long  time  without  becoming  rancid. 

To  MAKE  HARD  TALLOW  CANDLES. — Dissolve  2  pounds  of  alum 
in  hot  water,  render  it  in  10  pounds  of  tallow,  and  it  will  make  can- 
dles to  burn  equal  to  spermacetti.  * 

To  BLOW  OUT  A  CANDLE. — Hold  the  candle  above  you  when  you 
blow  it  out,  and  the  wick  will  not  smolder  down,  and  can  be  easily 
lighted  again. 

How  TO  TRAIN  SHEPHERD  D$GS. — In  southern  California,  where 
shepherds  attend  their  flocks  day  and  night,  they  commence  train- 
ing their  dogs  in  the  following  manner.  When  a  lamb  is  born, 
it  is  taken  from  the  mother  sheep  before  she  has  seen  it,  and  a 
pup  put  in  its  place.  The  sheep  suckles  the  puppy  and  learns 
to  love  it ;  when  the  puppy  grows  old  enough  to  eat  meat,  it 
is  fed  in  the  morning  and  sent  out  with  its  mother.  At  length,  im- 
patient to  return  where  it  hopes  to  get  another  piece  of  meat,  it  be- 
gins to  tease  and  worry  its  mother  and  finally  starts  her  towards 
home ;  the  other  sheep  follow,  and  thus  the  whole  flock  is  brought 


452  THE  FARM. 

home.  If  the  dog  brings  the  sheep  home  too  early  or  comes  home 
without  them,  he  gets  no  supper,  or  is  punished  in  another  way,  hence 
he  soon  learns  when  to  come  and  to  see  that  none  of  his  charge  are 
Lfc  behind.  These  animals  are  trained  by  taking  advantage  of  their 
instincts  and  appetites.  It  is  said  that  one  may  go  over  the  hills 
and  plains  and  see  thousands  of  sheep,  but  not  a  man  to  watch  them. 
Around  each  flock  or  band  of  a  thousand  sheep  are  a  half  dozen  dogs 
of  a  peculiar  breed,  dogs,  whose  progenitors  were  imported  from  the 
sheep  pastures  of  the  old  world.  These  dogs  take  the  entire  care  of 
the  sheep,  drive  them  out  to  pasture  in  the  morning,  keep  them  from 
going  astray  during  the  day  and  bring  them  home  at  night.  They 
have  inherited  the  talent  for  keeping  sheep. 

DISTEMPER  IN  DOGS. — As  soon  as  you  perceive  that  your  dog  is 
sick,  throw  down  his  throat  a  handful  of  very  fine  salt,  3  times  a  day 
for  3  or  4  consecutive  days.  This  remedy  has  never  failed. 

A  GOOD  WAY  TO  SAVE  CLOVER  SEED. — Have  a  wire  screen  at  or 
near  the  bottom  of  the  trough  in  which  cattle  feed  on  clover  ;  the 
pulling  of  it  will  cause  the  seed  to  fall  through  into  the  receptacle 
below,  when  the  sieve  can  be  removed  and  the  pure  seed  obtained 
for  future  use. 

To  MEASURE  CORX  IN  THE  Cam. — This  rule  will  apply  to  a  crib 
of  any  size  or  kind.  Two  cubic  feet  of  good,  sound,  dry  corn  in  the 
ear  willl  make  a  bushel  of  shelled  corn;  to  get,  then,  the  quantity  of 
shelled  corn  in  a  crib  of  corn  in  the  ear,  multiply  the  length,  breadth, 
heighth  of  the  crib  inside  of  the  rail;  multiply  the  length  by  the 
breadth  and  the  product  by  the  heighth,  then  divide  the  product  by 
two  and  you  will  have  the  number  of  bushels  of  shelled  corn  in  the 
crib. 

To  ESTIMATE  THE  AMOUNT  OF  HAY  IN  A  Mow. — A  hog  and  stock 
grower  says  that  the  following  rule  has  proved  correct.  In  a  mow, 
allow  512  cubic  feet  for  a  ton  in  hay  measurement 

To  ARREST  CHINCH-BUG  DEPREDATIONS. — Take  a  pail  of  water 
and  1-2  gallon  of  salt  stir  well;  then,  with  a  small  broom  or  bunch 
of  feathers,  sprinkle  well  a  row  of  corn  just  ahead  of  the  bugs,  taking 
care  that  the  ground  between  the  hills  of  corn  in  said  row  is  well 
sprinkled  with  the  brine.  3  pails  of  brine  will  sprinkle  a  quarter  of  a 
mile  if  properly  applied,  and  will  stop  the  march  of  that  crop  destroy- 
ing insect,  for  they  generally  commence  on  one  side  of  a  field  and 
never  stop  till  they  have  reached  the  last  row.  They  march  in  bodies 
with  army  precision. 

To  DESTROY  BUGS.— To  drive  away  the  striped  bugs  from  cu- 
cumber, melon  or  potato  vines  ;  take  i  peck  of  hen-house  manure  to 
every  i  1-2  gallon  of  water,  make  a  strong  solution  and  let  it  stand  a 
day  and  night.  If  you  have  one,  use  a  sprinkler  and  sprinkle  the 
solution  over  the  plants  after  sunset 


THE  FARM.  453 

CATCHING  BUGS. — Suggested  by  a  French  herbaculturist — After 
sunset  place  in  the  center  of  the  orchard  an  old  barrel,  the  inside  of 
which  has  previously  been  well  tarred ;  at  the  bottom  of  the  barrel 
place  a  lighted  lamp.  Insects  of  many  kinds,  attracted  by  the  light, 
make  for  the  lamp,  and  while  circling  around  it,  strike  against  the 
sides  of  the  barrel,  when,  meeting  with  the  tar,  their  wings  and  legs 
become  so  clogged  that  they  fall  helpless  to  the  bottom.  In  the 
morning  examine  the  barrel,  and  you  may  often  take  out  10  or  12 
gallons  of  cock-chafers,  which  can  be  destroyed  at  once  by  pouring  in 
boiling  water.  A  few  cents  worth  of  tar  employed  in  this  way  will, 
without  any  further  trouble,  be  the  means  of  destroying  innumerable 
swarms  of  these  insects,  whose  larvae  are  the  most  destructive  pests 
the  gardener  or  farmer  has  to  contend  against. 

MUSK  MELONS. — As  soon  as  the  runners  show  the  fruit  blossom- 
ing buds,  pinch  them  out ;  this  will  cause  an  increased  production  of 
the  lateral  shoots  and  add  to  the  size  of  the  shoots.  In  gardens, 
thinning  the  fruit  and  placing  bits  of  slate  or  blackened  shingles  un- 
der each  fruit,  improves  its  size  and  flavor.  Cucumbers,  melons, 
water  melons,  pumpkins  or  squash  should  not  grow  together  on  ac- 
count of  the  mixture  of  the  pollen. 

COWS. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  CLEAN  WATER  FOR  Cows. — Impure  water  not 
only  taints  the  blood,  but  the  milk  also,  and  fever,  nay,  even  fatal 
epidemics  may  originate  from  the  drinking  of  foul  water  by  the  cows. 
Investigations  go  to  prove  that  not  only  the  cow,  but  persons,  may 
be  poisoned  in  this  way,  and  no  stock  should  be  allowed  to  drink 
from  a  foul,  stagnant  pool,  and  it  is  just  as  important  for  the  milk 
producing  cows  to  have  sound  food  and  pure  water  as  human 
beings. 

CATTLE  CHOKED. — To  Relieve.— Make  the  animal  jump  over  as 
high  a  fence  or  gate  as  you  can.  and  when  she  reaches  the  ground 
on  the  opposite  side  the  obstruction  will  be  ejected. 

MEASURES  ro  PREVENT  THE  EXTENSION  OF  DISEASE  AMONG  CAT- 
TLE.— Among  the  most  prominent  measures,  is  the  removal  and  de- 
struction by  burning  or  burying  all  matters  capahL  of  reproducing 
the  disease,  hence,  all  articles  which  have  been  in  contact  with  dis- 
eased animals,  or  any  of  its  discharges,  must  be  regarded  as  infec- 
tives ;  animals  diseased  should  at  once  be  removed  or  better  be 
killed  and  deeply  buried.  In  order  to  maintain  or  restore  the  health 
of  cattle,  these  should  be  furnished  abundance  of  pure  air,  dry, 
clean,  well  ventilated  sheds,  and  plenty  of  pure  water,  clean  and  dry 
meadows  or  pasture,  frequent  currying  and  washing  of  the  skin, 


454 


THE  FARM. 


proper  food  at  proper  intervals,  protection  from  inclement  weather. 
The  utmost  cleanliness  in  the  removal  of  offensive  matter,  with  its 
storage  a  great  distance  from  the  cattle  shed. 

CURE  FOR  DISTEMPER  AMONG  CATTLE. — Use  the  Indian  turnip ; 
dose  for  a  cow  or  horse  i  turnip  ;  1-2  turnip  for  a  dog,  always  finely 
pulverized;  give  the  turnip  in  bran  or  meal  fur  cattle  or  horses  ;  give 
to  the  dog  in  bread  or  rnush.  It  will  render  a  perfect  cure. 

CALVES  should  have  an  abundance  of  nr.tticious  food,  and  while 
they  may  still  be  allowed  to  run  out  during  the  warm  days,  should 
be  carefully  housed  at  night  during  the  rainy  season. 

SCOURS  IN  CALVKS. — Break  the  shells  off  i  pint  of  red  oak  acorns, 
steep  in  3  pints  of  water  thoroughly,  and  you  will  have  i  quart  of 
the  tea ;  give  one  pint  of  the  same,  warm,  for  the  first  dose,  and  the 
remainder  12  hours  after,  if  necessary.  Not  more  than  two  doses 
are  required  for  a  cure. 

HOOF  ROT  IN  CATTLE. — i  1-2  tablespoonfuls  of  copperas,  i  tea- 
cupful  of  the  strongest  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  Dissolve 
gradually  on  a  hot  stove,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  When  cool,  apply  it 
on  the  affected  part,  limb  or  hoof,  and  also  swab  out  the  mouth  of 
the  animal  with  the  mixture.  2  or  3  applications  generally  effect  a 
cure.  This  preparation  can  be  used  in  the  foot  and  mouth  disease, 
in  connection  with  the  above  treatment. 

Cows  should  rest  before  they  are  milked,  and  cow-herders  should 
not  drive  them  rapidly  to  the  stalls  or  pens. 

SWELLED  BAGS  IN  Cows. — When  occasioned  by  cold,  use  or  apply 
.1-2  oz. gum  camphor,  2  oz.  sweet  oil;  pulverize  the  cold  gum,  and 
dissolve  over  a  slow  fire. 

SICKNESS  IN  ANIMALS. — A  teacupful  of  pow^^d  charcoal  in  water 
for  a  cow. 

Cows,  ABORTION  IN. — Give  them  rest  in  a  dry  place,  with  good 
water  and  plenty  of  pure  food.  It  may  be  expensive,  but  a  gain  in 
the  end. 

BLOODY  MILK  IN  Cows. — A  tablespoonful  of  sulphur  in  a  little  dry 
bran  once  a  day ;  twice  a  day  in  bad  cases. 

CATTLE,  WARTS  ON.— Anoint,  once  in  4  or  5  days,  the  warts  with 
an  equal  mixture  of  blue  vitroil,  lard  and  honey. 

CURE  FOR  MURRAIN. — Take  alum  and  salt  1-4  Ib.  each  ;  dissolve 
in  water  and  give  the  cow. 

MANGE. — 20  grains  of  antimony,  3  spoons  of  aloes,  made  into  a 
ball  with  honey  or  molasses  ;  repeat  ten  days  after  the  effects  of  the 
first  dose  have  subsided.  1-2  oz.  spirits  of  turpentine  mixed  with  a 
pint  of  linseed  oil,  administered  as  an  injection,  is  also  a  very§efficient 
remedy  for  pin  worms. 

REMEDY  FOR  BLOAT  IN  CATTLE.— As  soon  as  seen  give  it  a  pint  of 


THE  FARM.  455 

salt  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salaratus  mixed  in  it.  The  salt  dis- 
solves the  "green  food,  and  the  salaratus  dispels  the  wind.  Oat 
cakes  and  salt  are  good. 

OINTMENT  FOR  VERMIN  ON  CATTLE. — i  oz.  red  percipite,  i  oz.  of 
roll  or  flowers  of  sulphur,  4  oz.  of  lard  to  each  animal.  Mix  well. 

BRIMSTONE  FOR  TICKS. — A  piece  of  brimstone  as  large  as  a  grain 
of  corn,  well  pulverized,  given  in  a  little  salt,  will  cause  the  ticks  to 
drop  off  and  prevent  others  from  getting  on  for  eight  or  ten  days. 
In  summer  it  is  considered  as  necessary  for  a  cow  as  salt. 

GORGET  IN  MILCH  Cows. — i.  Cut  up  the  roots  of  "  sooke  "  or 
"  pigeon  berry, "  and  give  two  tablespoonfuls  in  bran  or  meal  twice 
a  day  for  two  or  three  days ;  then  omit  the  root  for  the  same 
length  of  time.  Repeat  until  cured. 

2.  Give  i  oz.  of  pulverized  saltpetre  in  a  bran  mush  once  a  day 
for  2  or  3  days.     Repeat  as  in  No.  i. 

3.  Give  seven  drops  of  tincture  of  aconite,  dropped  on  a  piece 
of  bread,  and  fed  in  a  bran  mush  for  2  or  3  days.     Repeat  as  in 
No.  i. 

4.  Give  in  same  manner  as  in  No.  3, 1-2  teaspoonful  of  tincture 
of  aconite  root.     This  is  not  the  same  as  the  "  tincture  aconite  "  in 
No.  3. 

To  CHOOSE  A  GOOD  Cow. — Her  head  should  be  small  and  short, 
dished  in  the  face  and  sunk  between  the  eyes,  soft  and  loose  skin, 
like  that  on  a  dog ;  deep  from  the  loin  to  the  udder  and  a  very  slim 
tail.  A  cow  with  these  marks  never  fails  to  be  a  good[milker.  Avoid 
the  Roman  nose ;  this  indicates  thin  milk,  and  but  little  of  it. 

CHOOSING  Cows. — A  smooth,  plump  udder  and  slight,  round  teat 
will  generally  be  o  give  more  and  better  milk  than  a  large, 

hanging  udder.  Th:  lodging  place  of  a  cow  should  be  clean,  dry 
and  warm.  The  floor  should  slope  a  little,  the  trough  kept  clean 
and  free  from  sour  grains,  vegetables,  &c.  She  should  be  regularly 
fed  at  sunrise  and  sunset,  and  once  or  twice  a  day  besides,  her  best 
food  good,  fresh  grass,  upon  which  she  should  be  allowed  to  graze, 
or  be  brought  to  her ;  should  be  allowed  to  exercise  in  the  open  air. 

THE  grass  will  go  farther,  her  diet  occasionally  varied  with  cab- 
bages. 

DRY  earth  a  bedding  for  cattle  to  the  depth  of  3  inches  and  the 
litter  laid  on  it.  It  will  not  have  to  be  renewed  in  along  time,  while 
of  it  a  valuable  manure  will  be  formed. 

FOOD  FOR  MILCH  Cows. — When  grass  is  neither  abundant  nor 
nutricious,  give  the  cows  all  they  will  eat,  night  and  morning,  of  a 
mixture  of  i  quart  of  corn  meal  to  a  bushel  of  chopped  oat  straw 
or  clover  hay.  If  they  do  not  eat  more  than  1-2  a  bushel  each  of 
the  mixture  at  a  meal,  you  can  double  the  portion  of  meal  to  ad- 


456  THE  FARM. 

vantage.     Moisten  the  hay,  sprinkle  the  corn  meal  with  a  small  por- 
tion of  salt  and  stir  until  mixed  thoroughly. 

MILKING  IN  SILENCE.— It  has  been  ascertained  that  cows  will  not 
give  down  their  milk  so  well  while  talking  is  going  on. 

LEAVES  of  the  grape  vine  are  excellent  for  cows,  sheep  and  hogs 
when  other  food  is  scarce. 

A  TEST  FOR  PURE  MILK. — Let  a  drop  fall  on  the  thumb  nail ;  if 
the  milk  is  pure  it  will  not  spread,  but  if  not  it  will  with  the  slight- 
est motion  of  the  hand.  This  I  was  told  by  a  dairyman. 

THE  NEW  MILK  TEST. — Prof.  Doresmus. — Place  a  small  portion 
in  a  vessel  on  the  top  of  a  stove  which  contains  a  portion  of  strong 
fruit  vinegar  or  citric  acid,  or  acetic  acid  and  common  alkali,  or  it  is 
best  to  bring  the  milk  gradually  to  the  boiling  point,  then  pour  into 
it  the  acid  and  alkali.  When  these  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed 
the  milk  will  separate  into  coagulations  of  olein  and  cascine.  If 
the  milk  is  pure  no  water  to  speak  of  will  be  found  in  the  can,  but 
if  it  has  been  watered,  there  will  be  a  large  deposit  of  water.  This 
milk  should  not  be  used,  but  thrown  away.  All  adulterated  milk  is 
unsatisfactory  in  its  results.  This  is  an  infallible  test  of  pure  milk, 
and  entirely  reliable  as  well  as  convenient  and  simple  for  the  house- 
keeper. 

To  PREVENT  MILK  FROM  TURNING  SOUR. — In  warm  weather  allow 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  borax  to  every  4  gallons  milk  before  straining. 
It  will  improve  the  quality  and  quantity  of  the  butter. 

MILK,  TO  KEEP  SWEET  THE  HOTTEST  WEATHER. — Put  a  spoonful 
of  horseradish  in  a  pan  of  milk.  This  will  keep  milk  sweet  any- 
where for  several  days. 

MUSTARD  TASTE  IN  MILK,  TO  REMOVE.— A  California  dairyman 
says  if  a  very  small  piece  of  saltpetre  be  dropped  into  a  pail  of  milk 
that  it  will  neutralize  the  taste  of  mustard  so  completely  that  it  will 
not  be  tasted  in  the  butter. 

MILK  being  a  great  absorbant,  takes  in  all  flavors  and  smells. 

CAUSES  OF  ODOR  IN  MILK  ROOM. — Improper  substances  in  the 
vicinity  of  milk  and  butter  will  taint  them.  A  piece  of  veal  on  the 
cellar  floor,  a  small  portion  of  stagnant  water,  a  kerosene  lamp  used 
in  the  milk  room,  a  piece  of  soap  left  on  a  pan  cover,  coal  in  an 
ordinary  county  store,  decaying  vegetables,  putrid  animal  matter  in 
a  cow  pasture,  cows  drinking  filthy  water,  partially  decomposed  milk, 
cream  or  cheese  adhering  to  the  dairy  vessel  on  the  floor  or  shelves. 

To  PRESERVE  MILK  FOR  A  JOURNEY. — Put  the  fresh,  sweet  milk 
into  bottles,  put  them  in  an  oven  with  cold  water,  gradually  raise 
it  to  the  boiling  point,  take  them  out  and  cork  immediately ;  return 
the  bottles  to  the  water,  raise  it  once  more  to  the  boiling  point,  let 
the  bottles  remain  a  few  minutes ;  take  the  oven  from  the  fire  and 
let  the  bottles  cool  in  it. 


THE   FARM.  457 

CANNED  MILK. — St.  Louis  recipe. — New  milk  may  be  canned  as 
easily  as  fruit,  by  simply  heating  it  to  the  boiling  point.  Pour  it 
into  cans  and  seal  up.  It  is  excellent  for  babies  and  travelling 
parties. 

CREAM,  TO  RISE. — Strain  your  milk  into  shallow  pans  holding  5 
quarts,  then  put  into  each  pan  a  quart  of  cold  water,  then  strain 
into  each  3  quarts  of  the  fresh  milk,  and  the  cream  will  rise  rap- 
idly, and  in  the  course  of  a  day  or  night  remove  the  cream,  and  the 
butter  made  from  it  will  be  much  sweeter  than  in  the  ordinary  way, 
and  more  of  it. 

To  TAKE  MILK  FROM  CREAM. — Use  a  syphon  and  draw  off^the  milk 
from  beneath  the  surface  of  the  cream.  This  mode  is  very  simple. 
A  glass  syphon  will  do. 

To  PRESERVE  CREAM  A  LONG  TIME. — Evaporate  the  cream  as  the 
milk  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  only  reducing  it  by  evaporation  to  1-4 
its  former  bulk  without  adding  sugar,  then  preserve  it  in  bottles  as 
directed  for  milk.  The  bottles  containing  the  cream  should  be 
boiled  3-4  of  an  hour. 

To  PRESERVE  CREAM  SWEET. — Dissolve  3.4  pound  of  white  sugar 
in  as  little  water  as  possible,  after  which  boil  it  in  an  enameled 
kettle  or  sauce  pan  and  immediately  add  3-4  pound  of  new  cream, 
mixing  the  whole  while  hot.  Let  it  cool  gradually  and  pour  it 
into  bottles,  which  must  be  carefully  corked  ;  keep  in  a  cool  place, 
and  it  will  be  good  for  weeks. 

A  SUBSTITUTE  FOR  MILK  OR  CREAM. — Beat  up  the  whole  of  a 
fresh  egg  in  a  basin,  and  then  pour  boiling  tea  or  coffee  over  it,  stir-4 
ring  gradually  to  prevent  curdling. 

CLOTH  STRAINER  FOR  MILK — Is  greatly  superior  to  those  of  wire. 

ASSES'  MILK. — So  sustaining  to  consumptives  far  surpasses  in  nu- 
trition any  imitation  of  it  that  can  be  made.  It  should  be  milked 
into  a  glass  that  is  kept  warm  by  being  in  a  basin  of  hot  water.  The 
fixed  air  that  it  contains  gives  some  people  a  pain  in  the  stom- 
ach. At  first  a  teaspoonful  of  rum  may  be  taken  with  it,  but 
should  only  be  put  in  the  moment  it  is  swallowed. 

ARTIFICIAL  ASSES'  MILK. — Boil  together  a  quart  of  water,  the 
same  of  new  milk,  an  ounce  of  white  sugar  candy,  1-2  ounce  of 
eringo  root,  1-2  ounce  of  conserve  of  roses  till  1-2  wasted.  This 
is  astringent,  therefore  proportion  the  doses  to  the  effect,  and  the 
quantity  that  will  be  used  while  sweet. 


458  THE  DAIRY. 


THE  DAIRY. 

BEEKMAN,  in  his  "History  of  Inventions,"  states  that  butter  was 
not  used  by  either  the  Greeks  or  Romans,  nor  was  it  brought  upon 
their  tables  at  certain  meals,  as  is  the  present  custom.  In  England 
butter  has  been  made  from  time  immemorial,  but  the  art  of  making 
cheese  was  learned  from  their  conquerors,  it  being  unknown  to  the 
ancient  Britons. 

BUTTER,  THE  TARTAR  METHOD  TO  PRESERVE  AND  CURE. — P.  K . 
— Melt  the  butter  in  well  glazed  earthen  pans  at  a  heat  not  exceed- 
ing 1 80  degrees,  in  a  water  bath,  and  keep  it  heated,  skimming  it 
from  time  to  time,  until  the  butter  becomes  quite  transparent ;  then 
pour  off  the  clear  into  another  vessel  and  cool  it  as  quickly  as  possi- 
ble, by  surrounding  it  with  water  or  ice. 

REMARKS. — The  above  is  the  method  of  preserving  butter  by  the 
Tartars,  who  supply  the  Constantinople  market;  and  if  kept  in  a 
close  vessel  and  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  will  keep  perfectly  sweet  for  6 
months. 

MR.  EATON  REMARKS  that  butter,  melted  by  the  Tartarian  method 
and  then  salted  by  ours,  will  keep  good  and.  fine  tasted  for  2  years  ; 
that  is  by  using  i  oz.  of  salt  petre  and  white  sugar,  and  2  oz.  of  the 
best  rock  salt  (in  a  very  fine  powder),  well  mixed  together.  When 
put  up,  it  should  be  packed  so  closely  together  that  no  vacuum  will 
•  be  left, — and  Mr.  Anderson  declares  that  butter  so  packed,  will  keep 
in  a  cool  place  for  years,  and  if  packed  so  as  not  to  melt,  will  stand 
a  voyage  to  the  East  Indies. 

N.  B. — The  Tartarian  method,  as  above  discribed,  will  keep  but- 
ter longer  than  any  other  yet  discovered. 

BUTTER,  RUSSIAN  MANNER. — The  sweet  milk  is  gently  simmered 
for  1-4  hour,  then  churned  in  the  usual  manner. 

SWEDISH  MODE  OF  MAKING  BUTTER. — Consists  simply  in  setting 
milk  in  deep  cans,  about  7  1-2  inches  in  diameter  by  20  inches  long, 
and  placing  them  in  a  tub  of  water  filled  with  broken  ice,  so  as  to 
maintain  a  temperature  as  near  to  40  degrees  as  possible,  and  in 
taking  off  the  first  12  hours  cream  for  their  export  butter.  This  is 
churned  immediately  at  a  temperature  of  from  50  to  60  degrees, 
freed  from  buttermilk  and  packed  in  sealed  tin  cans  holding  4  and  8 
pounds.  Thus  made  and  prepared,  it  will  remain  sweet  indefinitely. 
The  milk  after  the  first  skimming  is  made  into  cheese  or  remains 
until  the  cream  has  risen,  and  made  into  butter,  known  as  the 
"seconds,"  used  for  home  and  domestic  use.  The  Swedes  claim 
that  by  taking  off  the  cream  containing  the  large  globules,  which 
first  rise,  a  more  solid  and  firmer  butter  can  be  made ;  at  the  same 


THE  DAIRY.  459 

time  it  is  freed  from  the  influences  of  the  atmosphere  and  the  germs 
of  decay  floating  therein.  Certain  it  is,  that,  whereas  the  country  was 
famous  for  producing  the  poorest  butter  of  any  in  Europe,  it  now, 
under  this  system,  produces  the  finest  butter  in  the  world. 

IT  WAS  DURING  the  fourth  century  before  the  Christian  era,  that 
butter  began  to  be  noticed  as  an  aliment.  The  Parthians  and  Cy- 
thyans  often  sent  it  to  the  Greeks,  who  had  it  served  on  their  table  in 
imitation  of  the  people  from  whom  they  obtained  it,  and  gave  it  the 
name  of  "oil  of  milk,"  and  later,  that  of  "cow  cheese." 

THE  IRISH  RECIPE  TO  SALT  BUTTER. — To  i  Ib.  of  common  salt, 
add  i  Ib.  of  saltpetre  and  1-4  Ib.  of  white  sugar;  pound  all  these  to- 
gether, mixing  them  well,  and  to  every  pound  of  butter  allow  i  oz. 
of  the  mixture  ;  make  it  as  fresh  as  you  want  it,  observing  to  be  very 
careful  always  to  keep  the  same  proportions  and  to  mix  the  ingredi- 
ents thoroughly.  The  butter  should  stand  a  month  before  you  use 
it. 

To  FRESHEN  SALT  BUTTER. — Dissolve  the  butter  in  hot  water  ; 
after  cooling,  strain  off  the  butter  from  the  water  and  churn  it  in 
sweet  milk  ;  allow  i  quart  of  milk  for  i  Ib  of  butter.  Be  careful  to 
have  the  water  hot  enough  to  melt  the  butter. 

To  PRESERVE  BUTTER. — Take.  2  parts  of  the  best  common  salt,  i 
part  of  good  loaf  sugar;  and  i  part  of  salt  petre ;  beat  them  well  to- 
gether. To  1 6  oz.  of  butter,  thoroughly  cleansed  from  the  milk,  put 
i  oz.  of  the  composition  ;  work  it  well  and  pot  down  ;  when  it  becomes 
firm  and  cold,  the  butter  thus  preserved  is  the  better  for  keeping, 
and  should  not  be  used  under  a  month.  This  article  should  be  kept 
from  the  air,  and  is  best  in  pots  of  the  best  glazed  earth,  that  will 
hold  from  12  to  14  Ibs.  each. 

To  PRESERVE  BUTTER  FOR  WINTER  USE.  THE  BEST  WAV. — When 
the  butter  has  been  prepared  as  above  described,  take  2  parts  of  the 
best  common  salt,  i  part  of  good  common  loaf  sugar,  and  i  part  of 
salt  petre;  beaten  and  blended  well  together ;  of  this  composition 
put  i  oz.  to  1 6  ozs.  of  butter  and  work  it  well  together  in  a  mass. 
Press  it  into  the  pans  after  the  butter  becomes  cool,  for  friction, 
though  it  be  not  touched  by  the  hands,  will  soften  it.  The  pans 
should  hold  from  10  to  12  Ibs.  each.  On  the  top  put  some  salt,  and 
when  it  has  turned  into  brine,  (if  not  enough  to  cover  the  butter  en- 
tirely), add  some  strong  salt  and  water.  It  requires  only  to  be  cov- 
ered from  the  dust. 

PATENT  BUTTER. — Mr.  Clark's  Recipe. — Wash  the  butter  and  press 
out  the  milk  in  the  usual  way,  then  place  it  between  t.vo  linen  cloths 
and  submit  it  to  severe  pressure  to  remove  the  whey;  coat  clean 
white  paper  on  both  sides  with  the  whites  of  eggs,  mixing  15  grains 
of  salt  to  each  white;  dry  the  paper,  and  just  before  wrapping  it 


460  THE  DAIRY. 

around  the  butter,  iron  it  with  a  hot  iron ;  use  it  heated.     Keep  in  a 
cool,  dry  place. 

To  KEEP  AND  CHOOSE  FRESH  BUTTER. — Fresh  butter  should  be 
kept  in  a  dark,  cool  place,  and  in  as  large  a  mass  as  possible. 
Mould  as  much  only  as  is  required,  as  the  more  surface  is  exposed, 
the  more  liability  there  will  be  to  spoil,  and  the  outside  becomes  ran- 
sid.  Fresh  butter  should  be  covered  with  white  paper.  For  small 
larders  butter  coolers,  of  red  brick  are  now  very  much  used  for  keep- 
ing fresh  butter  in  warm  weather.  The  coolers  are  made  with  a  large 
bell-shaped  cover,  in  the  top  of  which  a  little  cold  water  should  be 
poured,  and  in  summer  time  very  frequently  changed  ;  the  butter 
mi'st  be  kept  covered.  These  coolers  keep  butter  remarkably  firm 
in  hot  weatiier,  and  are  extremely  convenient  for  those  whose  larder 
accommodation  is  limited.  In  choosing  fresh  butter,  remember  that 
it  should  smell  deliciously  and  be  of  equal  color  all  through  ;  if  it 
smell  sour,  it  has  not  been  sufficiently  washed  from  the  buttermilk, 
and  if  veiny  and  open,  it  has  probably  been  worked  with  a  staler  or 
an  inferior  sort.  When  buying  it  in  casks,  you  can  test  its  goodness 
by  unhooping  it  and  trying  it  between  the  staves.  To  choose  salt 
butter,  plunge  a  knife  into  it,  and  if,  when  drawn  out,  the  blade 
smells  rancid  or  unpleasant,  the  butter  is  bad.  Bad  butter  is  inju- 
rious to  the  stomach  and  almost  poisonous,  disguise  it  as  you  may, 
and  never  allow  it  to  enter  into  composition  of  any  dish  that  appears 
on  your  table. 

To  PURIFY  RANCID  BUTTER. — Melt  and  skim  the  butter  as  you 
would  for  clarifying  and  then  put  into  it  some  billets  of  toasted  bread. 
In  a  few  minutes  the  butter  will  lose  its  offensive  smell,  but  the  bread 
will  become  fetid.  Or,  use  Darby's  Profalectic  fluid,  by  the  direc- 
tions which  accompany  each  bottle. 

To  CUT  BUTTER  INTO  PATS. — Lay  the  butter,  already  moulded,  in 
ice  water,  then,  when  cold  and  firm,  cut  it  with  a  sharp  knife  dipped 
in  hot  water,  and  throw  the  pats  into  a  pan  of  ice  water ;  then,  when 
wanted,  put  on  small  plates. 

^  How  TO  M  'KK  BUTTER  TO  RESEMBLE  A  PINE  APPLE  IN  FORM. — 
Centennial.— With  a  butter  paddle  make  the  butter  in  the  form  of  a 
real  pine  apple,  then  take  a  silver  teaspoon,  dip  the  handle  in  hot 
water,  then  in  cold  ;  while  the  spoon  is  warm  and  wet,  scrape  up 
enough  of  the  butter  around  the  side  to  form  a  fluted  bar,  then  another 
all  around;  then  above  this  make  another  row,  not  having  them  in  the 
same  line,  and  then  continue  to  the  top.  It  should  be  done  on  the 
butter  plate  and  in  extremely  cold  weather,  otherwise  it  will  melt  and 
spoil. 

To  MAKE  STACKS  OF  BUTTER  FOR  ORNAMENT  AT  LARGE  PARTIES. 
— Centennial. — Make  a  stand  of  butter  about  i  1-2  feet  or  higher  on 


THE   DAIRY.  461 

a  butter  plate,  then  take  a  thin  coarse  cotton  or  linen  stocking  and 
squeeze  butter  through  over  the  stack  of  butter.  The  butter  passing 
through  the  stocking  net  will  resemble  fringe  or  fine  straw,  which  is 
very  ornamental  and  will  stick  to  the  butter  stack.  Or,  the  butter 
can  be  colored  in  different  ways  if  desired ;  I  mean  that  which  is 
squeezed  through  the  net. 

N.  B. — This  can  be  made  only  in  very  cold  weather,  and  even 
then,  a  fire  will  cause  it  to  melt  and  mar  its  beauty. 

DUCKS  OR   ANY    KIND    OF   FOWL   MADE   OF   BUTTER,    ON  A  DlSH  OR 

PLATE. — Centennial. — Then  squeeze  the  butter  through  the  net  as 
before  described.  The  little  threads  will  resemble  feathers.  The 
dish  is  beautiful  as  well  as  ornamental.  These  dishes  were  made 
and  used  at  weddings  and  parties  by  our  revolutionary  grandmothers. 
I  know  this,  for  I  have  the  good  fortune  to  remember  my  great-grand- 
mother with  matrons  of  the  same  stamp  in  her  day. 

FAIRY  BUTTER. — The  yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  i  tablespoonful 
of  orange  flower  water;  2  spoonfuls  of  pounded  sugar,  1-4  Ib.  of  good 
fresh  butter.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  smoothly  in  a  mortar  with 
the  orange  flower  water  and  sugar  until  the  whole  is  reduced  to  a  fine 
paste  ;  add  the  butter  and  force  all  through  an  old  but  clean  cloth  by 
wringing  the  cloth  and  squeezing  the  butter  very  hard.  The  butter 
will  then  drop  on  the  plate  in  large  and  small  pieces,  according  to 
the  holes  in  the  cloth.  Plain  buttermaybe  done  in  the  same  man- 
ner, and  is  very  quickly  prepared,  besides  having  a  very  good  effect. 

BUTTER,  BRINE  FOR  PRESERVING. — German  mode. — Make  three 
gallons  of  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg,  to  this  add  4  spoon- 
fuls (heaped)  of  white  pounded  sugar  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt- 
petre pounded.  Boil  the  brine,  take  off,  and  strain  carefully  when 
cold,  then  make  your  butter  into  rolls  of  the  desired  weight,  then 
with  clean  white  muslin  wrap  each  roll  separately.  Pack  in  a  large 
jar,  hogshead  or  cask ;  press  the  butter  down,  then  pour,  on  the 
brine  till  more  than  covered,  and  it  will  keep  sweet  and  fresh  for  an 
entire  year.  If  you  wish  to  keep  your  butter  for  any  length  of  time, 
never  put  it  near  ice.  If  the  weather  is  too  hot  to  make  the  butter 
into  rolls,  pack  it  closely  in  small  jars  to  the  depth  of  at  least  four 
inches.  This  will  exclude  the  air,  and  will  answer  nearly  as  well  as 
the  freezing  method. 

To  MAKE  BUTTER  QUICKLY. — Soyer,  in  his  history  of  food,  says 
that  to  obtain  butter  instantly  it  is  only  necessary  in  summer  to  put 
new  milk  into  a  bottle,  some  hours  after  it  has  been  taken  from 
the  cow  and  shake  briskly.  The  clots  thus  formed  should  be  thrown 
into  a  sieve  or  a  clean  cloth  and  pressed  together,  and  they  consti- 
tute the  purest,  most  delicate  and  delicious  butter  that  can  possibly 
be  made,  and  I  know  the  most  relished  by  sick  persons. 


462  THE  DAIRY. 


DIFFERENT  CHEESES— HOW  TO  MAKE. 

CHEESE  FROM  LABBERED  MILK. — Set  the  thick  milk  on  the  top  of 
the  stove  where  it  will  gradually  scald ;  stir  gently  now  and  then. 
It  should  not  be  allowed  to  boil,  as  that  makes  the  curd  too  hard 
and  dry.  When  it  is  cooked  so  tha't  the  curd  will  keep  its  shape 
after  being  squeezed  in  the  hand  it  is  done.  Pour  it  into  a  colan- 
der to  let  the  whey  drain  off,  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle  press 
it  in  the  hands  to  get  out  the  remainder  of  the  whey,  then  to  a  quart 
of  curd  take  a  spoonful  of  butter,  3  spoonfuls  of  sweet  cream,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  mix  it  well  together,  then  make  it  into  cakes 
or  press  it  all  in  a  dish  together  and  cut  it  with  a  knife  when  wanted. 
This  is  liked  much. 

MAKING  DUTCH  CHEESE  IN  OHIO  FASHION. — Take  some  sweet 
milk  in  a  new  tin  pail  or  pan,  set  it  on  a  stove,  shaking  it  occasion- 
ally that  the  curd  may  not  settle  at  the  bottom;  then  to  form  evenly 
gently  turn  in  the  edges,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  curds,  and  not 
to  let  it  cook  too  fast.  If  of  the  proper  temperature  it  will  be  done 
in  1-2  hour.  Then  slowly  and  gently  drain  off  the  whey,  pressing 
the  curd  till  only  enough  whey  remains  in  it  to  prevent  the  cheese 
from  being  too  dry,  with  just  enough  to  mix  it  well ;  then  add  salt 
to  taste,  a  good  lump  of  sweet  new  butter,  and  work  well  with  the 
hand,  then  pack  down  in  a  crock,  leaving  all  the  moisture  in  it. 
This  is  better  than  to  press  it  in  dry  balls ;  set  away  in  a  cool  place 
or  spring  house.  When  preparing  it  for  table  take  it  out  into  a  deep 
white  dish  and  very  carefully  dip  out  and  lay  over  the  top  of  it  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  sweet  or  sour,  but  the  sour  is  prefera- 
ble; lay  a  clean,  bright  spoon  beside  the  dish,  and  the  wholesome 
practical  dish  is  ready  for  criticism — cold  and  white  and  pretty,  and 
one  of  the  nicest  dishes  known  for  tea. 

COTTAGE  CHEESES. — Mrs.  L.  M.  Kellogg. — Put  your  clabber  on  a 
moderate  stove  or  fire,  let  it  heat  slqjvly,  then  strain  the  whey  off 
through  a  cloth  or  fine  colander  till  dry,  then  with  your  hand  work 
it  till  soft,  with  some  sweet  butter  and  salt  added;  then  make  into 
small  balls  for  the  table.  Eat  with  buttered  bread. 

IN  CHOOSING  CHEESE. — The  sense  of  smell  is  less  easily  imposed 
on  than  the  palate. 

To  PRESERVE  SOUND  CHEESE. — Wash  and  wipe  it  with  whey  once 
a  month  and  keep  it  on  a  rack.  If  you  want  to  ripen  it,  place  it  in 
a  damp  cellar.  When  a  whole  cheese  is  cut,  the  larger  quantity 
should  be  spread  with  butter  on  the  side  and  the  coat  wiped.  To 
keep  what  is  used  moist,  wrap  around  it  a  cloth  that  has  been  wrung 
out  in  cold  water.  Dry  cheese  may  be  advantageously  eaten  by 


THE  DAIRY.  463 

grating  it  with  or  without  maccaroni  and  spread  on  bread  with  but- 
ter. Some  cheeses  are  highly  colored  with  annatto,  which  is  per- 
fectly harmless,  but  as  many  persons  use  red  lead  for  cheapness, 
families  would  do  well  to  avoid  purchasing  cheese  which  has  that 
appearance.  It  is  said  of  dealers  who,  in  order  to  give  a  blue  mould 
to  their  cheese,  have  inserted  into  them  pieces  of  copper  or  brass, 
the  consequence  of  which  have,  in  some  instances,  been  fatal,  for 
the  dainty  morsel  thus  produced  is  verdigris. 

MAKING  CHEESE. — A  genuine  Scotch  recipe. — Take  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  Irish  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed  to  10  pounds  of  milk  curd; 
after  the  cheese  is  pressed  aud  dried  in  the  mould,  then  remove  it 
without  wrapping  it  up ;  put  it  in  among  the  hay  in  a  hay  stack  and 
let  it  remain  a  year,  then  it  is  fit  for  table  use.  The  cheese  will  be 
variegated  with  yellow  and  green  colors.  It  is  as  wholesome  as 
delicious.  Water  from  sage,  parsley,  cresses  and  other  herbs  boiled 
and  put  in  the  milk  curd  makes  it  better  and  more  wholesome,  being 
nice  and  spicy. 

CHEESE. — Put  the  cream  that  has  been  produced  in  the  night  into 
the  morning's  milk  with  the  rennet,  but  the  curd,  instead  of  being 
broken,  is  to  be  taken  out  all  together.  Place  it  on  a  sieve,  and 
while  draining  gradually  keep  gently  pressing  it  till  it  has  acquired  a 
consistency ;  then  place  it  in  a  wooden  hoop  and  press  it  dry  on 
boards,  turning  it  frequently,  and  bind  a  cloth  around  it,  tightening 
the  same  as  occasion  requires.  In  some  dairies  the  cheese,  after 
being  taken  out  of  the  hoop,  is  bound  tight  around  with  a  cloth, 
which  is  changed  every  day  until  the  cheese  stands  in  need  of  no 
further  support.  After  taking  off  the  cloth  it  must  be  brushed  every 
day  for  2  or  3  months  with  a  brush,  and  when  the  weather  is  damp 
this  should  be  done  twice  a  day. 

SOUR  CREAM  CHEESE. — Take  a  pint  of  very  thick  sour  cream 
from  the  top  of  the  pan  forgathering  butter;  lay  a  napkin  on  2  plates 
and  pour  1-2  into  each;  let  them  stand  12  hours,  then  put  them  on 
a  fresh  wet  napkin  in  one  plate  and  cover  the  same.  This  do  every 
12  hours  until  you  find  the  cheese  begins  to  look  dry,  then  ripen  it 
with  sage  leaves.  It  will  be  ready  in  10  days.  Two  pewter  plates  will 
ripen  cream  cheese  very  well. 

To  MAKE  SAGE  CHEESE. — Bruise  the  tops  of  red  sage  in  a  mortar 
with  some  leaves  of  spinach  and  squeeze  the  juice;  mix  it  with  ren- 
net in  the  milk,  more  or  less,  according  as  you  like  for  color  and 
taste.  When  the  curd  is  come  break  it  gently  and  put  it  in  with  the 
skimmer  until  it  is  pressed  2  inches  above  the  pot.  Press  it  8  or  10 
hours  ;  salt  it  and  turn  it  every  day. 

MACCARONI  AS  USUALLY  SERVED  WITH  THE  CHEESE  COURSE. — 1-4 
pound  of  pipe  raaccaroni,  1-2  pint  of  brown  gravy  and  6  ounces  of 


464  THE  DAIRY. 

rich  cheese  grated.  Wash  the  maccaroni  and  boil  it  in  salt  and 
water  until  quite  tender;  drain  it,  and  put  it  in  rather  a  deep  dish ; 
have  ready  a  pint  of  good  brown  gravy,  pour  it  hot  over  the  mac- 
caroni and  send  it  to  table  with  grated  cheese  served 
in  a  separate  dish.  When  the  flavor  is  liked,  a  little  pounded 
mace  may  be  added  to  the  water  in  which  the  macaroni  is 
boiled,  but  this  must  alwys  be  sparingly  added,  as  it  will  impart 
a  strong  flavor.  One  and  one-half  to  i  3-4  hour  to  boil  the  macca- 
roni. Seasonable  at  any  time. 

TOASTED  CHEESE  OR  WELSH  RARE  BIT. — Slices  of  bread  and  but- 
ter, rich  cheese,  mustard  and  pepper.  Cut  the  bread  in  thin  slices 
about  1-2  inch  thick  and  pare  off  the  crust;  toast  the  bread  slightly 
without  hardening  or  burning  it,  and  spread  it  with  butter;  cut  some 
slices  not  quite  so  large  as  the  bread  from  a  good,  rich,  fat  cheese; 
lay  them  on  the  toasted  bread  in  a  cheese-toaster;  be  careful  that 
the  cheese  does  not  burn,  and  let  it  be  equally  melted.  Spread  over 
the  top  a  little  made  mustard  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  serve 
very  hot  with  very  hot  plates.  To  facilitate  the  melting  of  the 
cheese,  it  may  be  cut  into  thin  flakes  or  toasted  on  one  side  before 
it  is  laid  on  the  bread.  As  it  is  so  essential  to" send  this  dish  hot  to 
the  table  it  is  a  good  plan  to  melt  the  cheese  in  small,  round  silver 
or  metal  pans,  and  to  send  these  pans  to  table,  allowing  one  for 
each  guest;  slices  of  dry  or  buttered  toast  should  always  accompany 
them,  with  mustard,  pepper  and  salt.  Five  minutes  to  melt  the 
cheese.  Allow  a  slice  to  each  person.  Seasonable  at  all  times. 

N.  B.  Should  the  cheese  be  dry,  a  little  butter  mixed  with  it  will 
be  an  improvement. 

TOASTED  CHEESE  OR  SCOTCH  RARE  BIT. — A  few  slices -of  cheese, 
toast,  mustard  and  pepper.  Cut  some  nice  rich,  sound  cheese 
into  rather  thin  slices,  melt  it  in  a  cheese  toaster  on  a  hot  plate 
or  over  steam,  and  when  melted,  add  a  small  quantity  of  mixed 
mustard  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper.  Stir  the  cheese  until  it  is 
completely  dissolved,  then  brown  it  before  the  fire  or  with  a  sala- 
mander. Fill  the  bottom  of  the  cheese-toaster  with  hot  water  and 
serve  with  dry  or  buttered  toasts,  whichever  may  be  preferred. 
A  small  quantity  of  porter  or  port  wine  is  sometimes  mixed  with 
the  cheese,  and  if  it  be  not  very  rich,  a  few  pieces  of  butter  may 
be  mixed  with  great  advantage.  Sometimes  the  melted  cheese  is 
spread  on  toasts,  and  then  laid  on  the  cheese  dish  at  the  top  of 
the  hot  water.  Whichever  way  it  is  served  it  is  highly  necessary 
that  the  mixture  be  very  hot  and  very  quickly  sent  to  table,  or  it  will 
be  worthless.  Five  minutes  to  melt  the  cheese.  Allow  a  slice  for 
each  person.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

CHEESE  CAKKS. — Turn  a  gallon  of  sweet  milk  with  some  fresh 


THE  DAIRY.  465 

rennet,  as  for  cheese;  drain  it.  When  dry  crumble  it  fine  and  shake 
it  through  a  coarse  sieve  into  a  basin  ;  then  beat  it  well  with  4  ozs. 
of  butter  or  more.  If  the  milk  is  not  rich,  then  mix  together  in  an- 
other basin  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4  ounces  of  cracker  powder 
sifted,  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  grated  rinds  of  4  ;  4  ounces  of 
pounded  white  sugar,  some  powdered  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  grated. 
Beat  these  up  well  together  until  perfectly  smooth,  forming  a  stiff 
cream,  then  add  slowly  with  the  curd  in  the  basin;  then  mix  again 
well  together,  then  butter  some  small  tart  pans  and  line  them  with 
some  puff  paste,  put  some  of  the  butter  in  each  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

N.  B.  If  you  have  no  rennet  to  turn  your  good  milk,  use  the 
juice  of  i  lemon  or  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  culinary  alkali  to 
each  quart  of  milk.  You  should  drain  this  curd  well,  as  before. 
Some  persons  do  not  use  any  eggs,  but  good,  sweet  milk  instead. 
BRKAD  CHEESE  CAKES. — Melt  6  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  new 
milk  and  pour  it  hot  over  i  Ib.  of  bread  crumbs ;  let  it  stand  to  be 
quite  cold,  then  add  6  ozs.  currants,  6  ozs.  sugar,  1-4  oz.  of  grated 
nutmeg;  beat  all  quite  smooth  with  the  yolks  of  8  and  whites  of  5 
eggs.  Add,  if  you  choose,  a  glass  of  brandy;  bake  in  patty -pans 
lined  with  paste  for  20  minutes.  These  cheese  cakes  are  as  good  as 
those  of  curd. 

RENNET. — The  Bavarian  way,  consists  in  turning  out  the  con- 
tents of  the  skin  of  the  stomach,  wiping  off  all  the  specks  or  dirt  with 
a  cloth,  then  blowing  up  the  skin  and  filling  it  with  air  like  a  blad- 
der; the  ends  are  tied  with  a  string  and  a  little  salt  applied  to  this 
part  only.  The  skin  treated  in  this  way,  soon  dries  perfectly  and  is 
sweet  as  could  be  desired.  This  way  is  preferable  to  the  common 
one;  it  keeps  better,  can  be  folded  up  and  carried  anywhere. 

RENNET. — 2  square  inches  from  the  bottom  of  the  calve's  stomach 
are  sufficient  for  a  cheese  of  60  Ibs. 

RENNET  WINE. — Rub  the  salt  from  the  calve's  stomach  and  put 
it  into  a  bottle  and  fill  it  up  with  good  Madeira  wine.  A  substitute 
for  rennet  is  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  a  quart 
of  milk.  A  tablespoonful  of  rennet  wine  is  sufficient  for  2  quarts  of 
milk  ;  put  in  when  warm. 

CHEESE  AND  ALE. — Cut  some  good,  rich  cheese  into  thin  slices, 
carefully  removing  the  rind,  lay  them  in  a  dish  over  a  lamp  ;  spread 
each  piece  with  mustard  and  pour  over  as  much  ale  as  will  cover 
them  ;  stew  till  the  cheese  is  quite  dissolved.  Toast  and  ale  should 
be  served  with  this ;  the  toast  should  be  thick  and  well  browned,  and 
hot  ale,  with  or  without  spices,  poured  over  it. 

BOILED  CHEESE. — Four  ounces  of  good,  rich  cheese,  2  oz.  of  fresh 
butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  ;  cut  the  cheese  into  thin  slices, 


466  THE  DAIRY. 

put  all  into  a  stew-pan  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  stir  it  till  it  boils 
and  is  quite  smooth.  Take  off  the  pan,  break  an  egg  into  it,  stir 
both  yolk  and  white  quickly  in ;  put  it  into  a  dish  and  brown  in  a 
Dutch  oven  before  the  fire. 

STEWED  CHEESE. — Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  cupful  of 
cream,  mix  with  a  good  teaspoonful  of  rich,  good  cheese,  finely  grat- 
ed; beat  it  well  together,  stew  it  till  quite  smooth,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Serve  it  on  well  toasted  bread  and  brown  the  top  with  a  sal- 
amander. 

CURD  FOR  CHEESE  CAKES. — English  Recipe. — Four  cups  each  of 
water  and  sour  milk,  2  beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  fruit  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice ;  boil  the  water  in  a  pan,  then  mix  the  milk  and  beat- 
en eggs  together,  add  them  to  the  water  and  stir  in  the  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice ;  when  the  curd  forms,  lay  it  on  a  cloth  or  sieve  to  drain. 
Boil  slowly  till  it  curds. 

CHEESE  OR  CURD  CAKE. — D.  C. — One  quart  of  curd  squeezed  dry, 
1-2  Ib.  of  butter,  1-2  Ib.  of  sugar,  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  i  teacupfulof 
currants  or  Sultana  raisins  cut  in  halves,  and  spice  to  your  taste. 
When  light,  put  into  your  paste  in  small  pans. 

RAMAKINS. — To  serve  with  the  cheese  course. — One  half  pound 
of  rich,  good  cheese,  1-4  Ib.  of  fresh  butter,  4  eggs,  the  crumb  of  a 
small  roll ;  pepper,  salt  and  pounded  mace  to  taste.  Boil  the  crumbs 
of  the  roll  in  milk  for  5  minutes,  strain  and  put  it  into  a  mortar  ;  add 
the  cheese,  which  should  be  finely  scraped;  the  butter,  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  and  seasoning,  and  pound  these  ingredients  well  together. 
Whisk  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  mix  them  with  the  paste  and  put  it  in- 
to small  pans  or  frames,  which  should  not  be  more  than  half  filled. 
Bake  from  10  to  12  minutes  and  serve  them  very  hot  and  quickly. 
This  batter  answers  equally  well  for  maccaroni  after  it  is  boiled  ten- 
der, 10  to  12  minutes.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 

To  MAKE  A  FONDUE. — Four  eggs,  the  weight  of  2  in  good,  rich 
cheese,  the  weight  of  2  in  butter ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Separ- 
ate the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beat  the  former  in  a  basin 
and  grate  the  cheese  or  cut  it  in  thin  flakes.  Any  good,  rich,  sound 
cheese  may  be  used,  whichever  is  most  convenient.  Break  the  but- 
ter into  small  pieces  and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients  with  enough 
pepper  and  salt  to  season  nicely,  and  beat  the  mixture  thoroughly. 
Well  whisk  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  stir  them  lightly  in,  and  either 
bake  the  fondue  in  a  souffle  dish  or  small  round  cake  tin.  Fill  the 
dish  only  1-2  full,  as  the  fondue  should  rise  very  much.  Pin  a  nap- 
kin round  the  dish  and  serve  very  hot  and  very  quickly.  If  it  is  al- 
lowed to  stand  after  it  is  withdrawn  from  the  oven,  the  beauty  and 
lightness  of  this  composition  will  be  entirely  spoiled.  From  xoto  12 
minutes.  Seasonable  at  any  time. 


HORSES  AND  THEIR  DISEASES.  467 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKES. — Mix  1-4  cup  each  of  butter  and  sifted 
loaf  sugar  and  melt  it  gently  ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  2  and  the  white 
of  i  egg,  the  rind  of  3  lemons,  chopped  fine,  and  the  juice  of  1-2  ;  i 
hard  biscuit,  some  blanched  almonds,  pounded,  i  spoonful  powder- 
ed coriander  seeds,  3  spoonfuls  of  brandy ;  mixed  well  and  put  in 
paste  prepared  as  follows  :  Eight  ozs.  of  flour,  i  1-2  cups  of  butter,  2-3 
of  which  mix  with  the  flour  first,  then  wet  it  with'  6  spoonfuls  of 
water  and  roll  the  remainder  in. 

OUR  OWN  CHEESE  CAKE. — Grate  the  rinds  of  3  lemons  and  squeeze 
the  juice  over  3  sponge  biscuits  soaked  in  a  glass  of  cream  ;  add  this 
to  a  coffee  cup  of  fresh  butter  and  3  eggs  well  beaten ;  season  with 
cinnamon,  coriander  and  nutmeg.  Mix  the  whole  ingredients  thor- 
oughly and  bake  in  pans  lined  with  a  light,  thin  paste.  Lay  a  few 
long  slices  of  candied  lemon  peel  upon  the  top. 

OUR  AUNT'S  CHKESE  CAKE.— Grate  the  rind  of  i  large  lemon  or 
orange,  squeeze  the  juice,  sweeten  to  taste  with  pounded  lump  sugar; 
2  cups  of  clarified  butter  put  in  when  the  thickness  of  cream,  5  eggs, 
only  3  whites;  i  tablespoonful  of  brandy;  mix  well  together,  have  a 
good  paste  and  bake  in  pastry  pans. 

HORSES  AND  THEIR  DISEASES. 

How  TO  JUDGE  A  HORSE. — If  the  color  be  light  sorrel  or  chestnut 
the  feet,  legs  and  face  white,  these  are  marks  of  kindness.  If  he  be 
broad  and  full  between  the  eyes,  you  may  depend  pn  him  as  a  horse 
of  good  sense,  capable  of  being  trained  to  anything.  As  respects 
such  horses,  the  more  kindly  you  treat  them  the  better  you  will  be 
treated  in  return,  nor  will  a  horse  of  this  discription  stand  a  whip 
if  well  fed.  If  you  want  a  safe  horse,  avoid  one  that  is  dish  faced. 
He  may  be  so  far  gentle  as  not  to  scare,  but  he  will  have  too  much 
go  ahead  in  him  to  be  safe  with  every  body.  If  you  want  a  fool  of  a 
horse,  but  of  great  bottom,  get  a  deep  bay,  with  not  a  white  hair 
about  him.  If  his  face  is  a  little  dished,  so  much  the  worse.  Let  no 
man  ride  such  a  horse  that  is  not  an  adept  in  riding,  they  are  always 
frisky  and  unsafe.  If  you  want  one  that  will  never  give  out,  never 
buy  a  large  overgrown  one.  Parti-colored  horses  are  docile  and 
gentle. 

AGE  OF  A  HORSE. — Every  horse  has  6  teeth  above  and  below; 
before  3  years  old  he  sheds  his  middle  teeth  ;  at  3  he  sheds  i  more 
on  each  side  of  the  central  teeth,  at  4  he  sheds  the  2  corner  and  last 
of  the  4  teeth.  Between  4  and  5  he  cuts  the  under  tusks  ;  at  5  he 
will  cut  his  upper  tusks,  at  which  time  his  mouth  will  be  complete. 
At  6  the  grooves  and  hollows  begin  to  fill  up  a  little ;  at  7  the  grooves 
will  be  well  nigh  filled  up,  except  the  corner  teeth,  leaving  little  brown 


46  >  HORSES   AND  THEIR  DISEASES. 

spots  where  the  dark  brown  hollows  formerly  were.  At  8  the  whole 
of  the  hollows  are  filled  up.  At  9  there  is  often  seen  a  small  bill  to 
the  outside  corner  teeth  ;  the  point  of  the  tusk  is  worn  off  and  the 
part  that  was  concave  begins  to  fill  up  and  becomes  rounding.  The 
squares  of  the  central  teeth  begin  to  disappear  and  the  gums  leave 
them  small  and  narrow  at  the  top. 

FOR  TAMING  HORSES. — Kindly  furnished  by  a  gentleman  who  has 
had  much  experience  in  such  matters. — Take  finely  pounded  castor 
and  oils  of  rhodium  and  cummin  ;  keep  these  in  separate  bottle  well 
corked.  Put  some  of  the  oil  of  cummin  on  your  hand  and  approach 
him  on  the  windy  side  ;  he  will  then  move  towards  you ;  then  rub 
some  of  the  cummin  on  his  nose.  Then  give  him  some  of  the  castor 
on  anything  he  likes  and  put  8  or  10  drops  of  the  rhodium  on  the 
end  of  his  tongue,  and  you  can  get  him  to  do  anything  you  please. 
Follow  this  up  with  kindness,  and  your  control  of  him  is  certain. 

To  CURE  A  HORSE  FROM  CRIBBING. — Arrange  the  stall  so  your 
horse  cannot  get  hold  of  any  thing  only  his  feed  trough.  Now  make 
2  rollers  the  length  of  the  trough,  6  or  7  inches  in  diameter ;  the 
larger  the  better,  fasten  one  end  in  front  of  the  other  in  the  back 
part  of  the  trough ;  when  the  horse  goes  to  cribbing,  he  will  press  his 
teeth  against  the  rollers  and  they  will  turn;  after  trying  it  a  few  times 
he  will  give  it  up. 

FOUNDER  REMEDY. — Swab  (if  stiff)  the  feet  and  legs  with  hot  wa- 
ter, so  hot  that  the  hand  cannot  bear  to  touch  it,  but  not  so  hot  as  to 
scald.  After  a  short  time  the  legs  should  be  rubbed  dry  and  the 
horse  gently  exercised.  A  correspondent  says  that  he  has  never 
known  this  remedy  to  fail.  Another  correspondent  says  that  foun- 
der in  its  worst  form  can  be  cured  by  standing  your  horse  all  day  in 
water  deep  enough  to  come  up  over  his  back.  Running  water  is  the 
best. 

CURE  FOR  SWEENY. — Take  a  toad,  noose  a  string  around  his  hind 
legs,  and  tie  it  around  the  horse's  mane,  so  that  the  toad  will  hang 
against  the  sweenied  shoulder  over  night.  By  next  morning  the 
toad  will  not  only  be  dead,  but  dried  up  like  a  piece  of  beef  that  has 
hung  up  to  dry  a  day  or  two.  But  if  it  be  not  sweeny,  it  \\illbe  alive 
and  in  a  good  condition. 

HIDE-BOUND  HORSES. ---Nitrate  of  potash,  2  1-2  oz.;  sulphate  of 
iron,  common  rosin,  of  each  10  drachms;  juniper  berries,  6  oz.;  all 
in  powder;  to  be  well  mixed  and  divided  into  12  parts,  one  of  which 
is  to  be  given  night  and  morning  in  mixed  feed.  Or  the  following 
powders  may  be  given  the  following  week :  Flowers  of  sulphur,  i  Ib. 
sesqui-sulphuret  of  antimony,  1-2  Ib.;  powdered  nitrate  of  potash, 
1-4  Ib.  Mix  and  divide  into  12  parts,  one  part  to  be  given  every 
morning  and  evening  in  mixed  feed.  The  powders  will  work  on  the 
kidneys  and  secretory  organs. 


HORSES  AND  THEIR  DISEASES.  469 

How  TO  CURE  A  CRACKED  HOOF. — When  the  hoof  is  cracked  all 
the  way  up,  cut  a  notch  above  the  crack  in  the  soft  part  of  the  hoofc 
as  the  hoof  grows  off  and  the  notch  grows  down  in  the  hard  hoof, 
take  a  rasp  and  rut  the  notch  nearly  through  the  hoof,  and  a  cure 
will  be  effected,  as  soon  as  the  hoof  grows  out. 

CURE  FOR  RING  BONE. — Mix  1-2  oz.  of  odine  in  a  25  cents  bottle 
of  Mexican  Mustang  Liniment. 

FISTULA. — If  the  fistula  has  not  been  opened,  it  should  be 
fomented  with  hot  water,  as  hot  as  the  hand  can  bear,  several 
times  a  day,  until  the  tumor  points  or  appears  soft.  Then  a  good 
large  opening  should  be  made  at  the  most  pending  part  of  the 
tumor,  in  order  to  give  the  matter  free  exit.  Keep  it  thoroughly 
clean  by  injecting  soap  and  water  every  day.  After  using  the 
soap  and  water,  use  the  following  injection  :  Solution  Goulard,  2 
ounces;  sulphate  zinc,  i  ounce;  sulphate  copper,  i  ounce,  and 
dilute  acetic  acid  powder,  i  pint.  Powder  the  sulphates  and  dis- 
solve in  the  diluted  acetic  acid  and  add  the  Goulard  solution.  Use 
this  once  a  day  with  cleanliness. 

POLE  EVIL,  TO  SCATTER. — Bruise  a  quantity  of  the  mandrake 
root  and  boil  it  down  until  thick,  then  add  some  lard,  and  then 
simmer  until  proper  to  make  an  ointment.  Apply  every  day  until 
well. 

RKMEDY  FOR  BOTS  IN  HORSES. — It  may  be  known  by  the  occa- 
sional nipping  at  their  own  sides,  and  by  red  pimples  and  projec- 
tions on  the  inner  surface  of  the  upper  lip,  which  can  be  plainly  seen 
by  raising  the  lip. 

THEATMENT. — First  give  2  quarts  of  new  milk  with  i  quart  of 
molasses.  Give  the  horse  the  whole  amount;  15  minutes  afterwards 
give  2  quarts  of  sage  tea  very  strong ;  30  minutes  after  the  tea 
currier's  oil,  or  enough  to  operate  as  physic.  The  milk  and  the 
molasses  will  cause  the  bots  to  let  go  their  hold,  the  tea  puckers 
them  up,  and  the  oil  carries  them  away. 

GLANDKRS  are  contagious  among  horses,  and  even  persons  have 
been  known  to  take  it  from  them.  The  virus  or  poison  of  glan- 
ders may  be  for  months  in  a  state  of  incubation  in  the  horse's 
constitution  before  the  disease  breaks  out.  Of  this  we  have  the 
most  positive  evidence,  and  when  it  does  it  gives  it  to  all  others 
near  or  in  contact  with  it.  The  best  and  safest  way  is  to  burn 
thoroughly  the  ground  over  which  the  animal  has  grazed,  and  per- 
haps the  stable  also. 

EPIZOOTIC. — As  soon  as  the  disease  begins  to  appear  among 
your  horses  give  each  a  large  dose  of  pine  tar  once  a  week. 

REMEDY  FOR  HORSE  COUGH. — One  pint  of  bran  wet  with  wa- 
ter; put  from  5  to  7  drops  of  tar  oil  in  bran,  stir  it  well  and  give  to 


470  SHEEP  AND  THEIR  DISEASES. 

the  horse  twice  a  day,  morning  and  evening.  It  is  good  for  dis- 
temper; in  fact,  it  is  good  for  any  kind  of  cough  ahorse  may 
haVe.  The  tar  oil  can  be  had  at  any  drug  store.  It  costs  but  a 
trifle. 

WASH  FOR  SADDLE  SORES  ON  HORSES'  BACKS  AND  OTHER  FOUL 
SORES. — Calomel  i  drachm  and  1-2  pint  of  water. 

GRUBS  IN  HORSES. — R.  M. — Make  a  strong  sage  tea,  drench  the 
horse  until  a  change  is  effected  ;  or  beat  the  leaves  and  give  them 
at  once  in  some  bran  or  meal :  a  cup  is  a  dose,  or  once  or  twice  a 
week. 

WORMS. — First  give  the  horse  as  a  vermifuge  i-i  oz.  of  freshly 
powdered  betel  nut  put  in  his  food  2  or  3  times  a  week.  2nd,  the 
best  plan  is  to  stimulate  the  horn  forming  tissues  to  increased  ac- 
tion, which  can  be  accomplished  by  blistering  around  the  pastern 
and  coronet.  After  the  effects  of  blisters  have  subsided  apply  daily 
to  the  hoof  by  means  of  a  stiff  brush  an  ointment  composed  of 
tar,  soft  soap  and  tallow,  equal  parts,  melted  together  and  stirred 
till  cold.  The  above  is  a  remedy  for  worms  and  for  one  foot  that 
contracts  as  much  as  the  other  grows. 

ASTRINGENT  POWDERS  FOR  LOOSENESS. — Alum,  1-2  oz. ;  catechu, 
i  ounce;  opium,  1-4  ounce;  chalk,  4  ounces  ;  ginger,  2  ounces. 
Usual  dose  is  i  to  2  tablespoonfuls  per  day.  If  preferred,  they  can 
be  made  into  balls  with  molasses. 

LOTION  FOR  TENDER-MOUTHED  HORSES. — Powdered  borax  or 
alum,  i  ounce  ;  honey,  4  ounces  ;  infusion  of  roses,  i  pound.  It 
should  be  used  with  a  syringe. 

HORSE  CORDIAL. — One  pint  compound  tincture  of  benzoin,  com- 
pound spirits  of  ammonia  and  sweet  spirits  of  nitre,  of  each 
6  or  8  ounces.  Mix  and  put  in  closely  corked  bottles. 

SHEEP,  AND  THEIR  DISEASES. 

GRUB  OR  FOOT-ROT  IN  SHEEP. — Run  the  sheep,  every  other  day, 
through  dry,  fresh  slacked  lime  until  a  cure  is  effected.  It  is  a  never- 
failing  cure. 

To  PROTRCT  SHEEP  FROM  THE  GAD  FLY. — Which  deposits  in  the 
months  of  August  and  September  the  egg  in  the  nostrils  of  the 
sheep  when  they  are  hatched,  and  the  worms  crawl  into  the  head 
of  the  sheep,  and  very  frequently  eat  through  the  brain,  and  in  this 
way  destroy  many  sheep.  As  a  protection,  smear  their  noses  with 
tar.  Lay  some  tar  in  the  trough  or  on  a  board,  and  strew  fine 
salt  on  it.  The  sheep  will  finish  the  operation.  The  tar  will  pro- 
tect them,  and  what  they  eat  will  promote  their  health.  A  strong 
decoction  or  juice  of  elder  leaves  squirted  up  their  noses  is  a 


HOGS  AND  THEIR  DISEASES. 

valuable  remedy,  and  to  drive  any  kind  of  fly  worms,  and  resists 
putrifaction. 

THK  GAD  FLY. — These,  in  the  summer  months,  abound  in  woody 
places  and  attack  the  sheep  while  browsing.  The  moment  the  fly 
touches  the  nostrils  they  deposit  the  egg,  which  soon  hatches,  and 
the  maggots  crawl  up  the  nostrils  and  enter  the  frontal  and  maxil- 
lary sinuses,  and  also  the  cavities  of  the  bone  which  supports  the 
horns  of  the  sheep.  These  cavities  are  all  of  considerable  extent 
and  magnitude,  and  the  thin  flexible  bones  which  constitute  them 
are  covered  with  a  dense  white  membrane,  upon  the  mucus  secre- 
tions of  which  the  larvae  is  supposed  to  feed. 

How  TO  TELL  THE  AGES  OF  SHEEP. — The  first  year  their  teeth  are 
small,  the  second  year  the  2  middle  ones  fall  out,  and  their  place  is 
supplied  by  2  larger  new  teeth ;  the  third  year  there  are  4  larger 
teeth  in  the  middle,  10  pointed  ones  on  each  side  ;  the  fourth  year 
2  smaller  teeth  alone  remain,  one  at  each  end  of  the  range  ;  the 
fifth  year  the  whole  front  teeth  are  larger ;  the  6th  year  the  whole 
teeth  begin  to  be  worn ;  the  seventh  year  the  teeth  begin  to  fall  out 
and  get  broken. 

HOGS  AND  THEIE  DISEASES. 

How  TO  PRESERVE  PIGS  IN  GOOD  HEALTH  AND  IN  GOOD  APPETITES 

DURING  THE  PERIOD  OF  THEIR  FATTENING. — Mix   with  the  food  a  few 

gall-nuts  bruised  with  charcoal. 

BRIMSTONE  FOR  CATTLE. — It  is  as  necessary  for  them  as  salt. 

FOOD  FOR  HOGS. — Mix  with  their  food  the  wood  charcoal.  It 
adds  greatly  to  their  healthfulness. 

ARTICHOKES  AS  A  FOOD. — Are  excellent  for  hogs,  sheep  and  cattle. 

TO  PREVENT  HOGS  FROM  BITING  EACH  OTHER. —  Give    them  COal  Ot 

burnt  bones  to  eat. 

BLIND  STAGGERS  IN  PIGS. — Withhold  food  from  them  for  several 
days,  give  them  charcoal  and  sulphur  in  small  quantities.  This 
disease  arises  from  being  fed  too  high. 

Sows  EATING  PIGS. — A  veterinaria-i  in  the  Prairie  Farmer  ad- 
vises a  correspondent,  to  watch  the  hog  the  first  few  days  after  the 
pigs  are  born,  if  she  evinces  a  desire  to  eat  her  pigs,  give  her  an 
emetic  compound  of  tartar  emetic,  3  grains;  powdered  ipecac 
and  powdered  white  hellebore  of  each  8  grains;  mix  and  throw 
the  dose  into  the  mouth  of  the  hog. 

DRY  CHOLERA  AMONG  HOGS. — The  best  remedy  is  green  corn, 
when  that  is  nol  to  be  had,  use  from  one  to  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
castor-oil  mixed  with  scalded  meal.  Give  a  good  feed  but  not  too 
much.  Pour  the  oil  down  and  make  a  tempting  slop  of  the  meal 
and  sweet  milk. 


FRUITS. 

How  TO  RELIEVE  HOGS  OF  LICE. — Take  3  or  4  copper  cents  and 
nail  them  to  the  bottom  of  the  trough  in  which  you  feed  them,  and  the 
lice  will  leave. 

LICE  ON  CATTLE. — An  immediate  and  valuable  remedy  for  lice  on 
cows  and  other  cattle,  and  likewise  for  pigs,  is  to  wash  the  affected 
parts  in  potato-  water  or  water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled. 
One  application  will  do. 

KIDNEY  WORM  PARALYSIS  IN  SWINE  (Tautun  Xaroral). — With  a 
light  piece  of  board,  strike  the  hog  several  times  across  the  small 
part  of  the  back,  several  times  a  day.  It  has  never,  it  is  said, 
failed. 

SULPHUR. — Mixed  with  salt,  and  given  to  cattle,  sheep,  horses 
and  hogs,  will  keep  ticks  from  them.  Also  put  sulphur  in  the  food 
of  fowls,  and  they  will  not  be  troubled  with  lice. 

HOG  CHOLERA  AND  BURNT  CORN. — It  is  said  by  a  farmer  that  burnt 
corn  will  cure  hog  cholera. 

SORE  THROAT  IN  SWINE. — This  is  a  swelling  of  the  glands  of  the 
throat  attended  by  wheezing,  and  general  weakness  of  the  animal. 
Indigo  is  useful  for  it,  a  piece  as  large  as  a  hickory  nut  mashed  up 
in  water  and  poured  down.  Once  is  generally  sufficient. 

To  KEEP  SWINE  HEALTHY. — Mix  with  their  food  daily,  wood 
charcoal. 

FKUITS. 

THE  APPLE. — No  fruit  is  more  universally  used  and  popular,  than 
the  apple.  When  peeled,  cored  and  well  cooked,  it  is  a  most  grate- 
ful food  for  the  dyspeptic.  The  best  of  cider  is  made  from  it,  and 
many  sorts  are  used  for  the  table  in  a  cooked  or  raw  state.  It  forms 
the  most  important  article  of  food  in  the  shape  of  pies,  puddings, 
wholesome  and  delicious  jellies,  sauces,  marmalades  and  sweetmeats, 
and  can  be  used  with  flour  or  corn  meal  for  making  bread.  It  can 
be  dried  or  put  away  in  its  natural  state  for  winter  use,  for  pies, 
dumplings,  and  many  other  things,  and  is  considered,  when  roasted, 
very  strengthening  to  a  weak  stomach,  It  grows  in  all  temperate 
climates,  It  is  often  mentioned  in  the  Bible  ;  and  by  Homer,  as  a 
valuable  fruit  in  his  time. 

THE  VARIOUS  USES  OF  THE  LEMON  AND  ITS  FRUIT. — It  is  a  native 
of  Asia,  and  there  it  grows  to  the  heighth  of  60  feet.  Not  only  the 
fruit,  but  the  whole  tree  is  valuable  as  medicine.  Whether  in  health 
or  not,  lemonade  is  the  safest  and  best  drink  for  any  person.  The 
shortest  way  to  make  it,  is  to  squeeze  the  juice  in  cold  water,  or  to 
slice  and  soak  it  in  cold  water,  or  boil  the  slices,  either  way  is  good. 
It  is  suitable  to  all  stomach  diseases,  is  excellent  in  cases  of  jaun- 
dice, liver  complaints,  inflamation  of  the  bowels,  stomach  diseases 


FRUITS.  473 

and  fevers,  against  worms  and  skin  diseases,  it  is  a  specific.  The 
juice  of  the  lemon  is  the  best  scorbutic  remedy  known.  It  not  only 
cures,  but  prevents  this  disease.  If  the  gums  are  rubbed  with  it 
daily,  it  will  keep  them  in  health,  and  the  daily  use  of  it  will  keep  the 
nails  and  hands  white,  soft  and  supple,  and  is  far  preferable  to  soap. 
It  will  prevent  chill  blains.  If  mixed  with  strong,  hot,  black  coffee 
with  sugar,  it  is  healthful,  and  is  excellent  in  intermittent  fevers  ;  it 
will  cure  neuralgia  by  rubbing  the  part  affected  with  a  cut  lemon ; 
will  destroy  dandruff  on  the  head  by  rubbing  the  roots  of  the  hair  with 
it;  will  cure  warts.  It  is  a  natural  remedy,  a  panacea,  and  nature 
is  our  best  physician  ;  and  all  her  remedies  are  the  best,  if  we  would 
only  use  them. 

LEMON  JUICE,  TO  PRESERVE. — Strain  the  expressed  juice  through 
a  bag  into  a  glass  vessel,  then  put  a  small  quantity  af  almond  or 
olive  oil  into  a  glass  bottle  and  pour  the  juice  in  ;  the  oil  rises  to  the 
top  and  prevents  the  air  from  penetrating  and  spoiling  it.  The 
juice  is  good  for  rheumatism,  scurvy  and  fevers,  and  its  frequent  use 
will  prevent  disease.  The  most  healthful  of  all  fruits,  except  the 
apple. 

To  KEEP  LEMONS  FOR  LEMONADE. — Slice  them  through  when  per- 
fectly fresh  and  pack  the  slices  in  glass  jars  with  a  thick  layer  of  fine 
white  sugar  between,  and  they  will  keep  good  for  i  year. 

To  KEEP  WATER  MELONS  AND  OTHER  Fuurrs  TILL  CHRISTMAS. — 
Paint  the  melons  etc.  with  a  mucilage  that  will  not  rub  off,  common 
paste  of  flour  and  a  little  alum  will  do ;  set  it  away  to  dry,  then  paint 
over  3  times,  allowing  them  to  dry  each  time.  Then  keep  them  in 
a  cool,  dry  place,  so  as  not  to  freeze. 

To  SAVE  FRUIT  WITHOUT  SUGAR. — Put  in  wide  mouthed  bottles, 
and  fill  up  with  clear  cold  water  (spring  water  the  better),  put  them 
into  a  vessel  of  water  up  to  the  neck;  boil  1-2  hour,  tie  bladders  or 
oil  skin  over  tight,  or  cork  and  seal  while  hot ;  or  put  them  in  self- 
sealing  cans  or  jars ;  let  them  remain  till  cold.  Keep  in  a  cool  place. 
Use  as  soon  as  opened.  In  order  to  steady  them,  pack  hay  around 
them  while  boiling. 

PEARS,  A  DELICIOUS  WAY  TO  COOK.— Take  8  medium  sized  or  6 
large  pears,  8  oz.  of  sugar,  i  gill  of  sweet  wine,  8  cloves  (whole)  ; 
some  grated  nutmeg  to  taste,  1-2  of  a  large  lemon,  1-2  oz.  gelatine. 
Peel  the  pears  nicely,  then  quarter  them,  lay  them  in  a  shallow  dish 
or  pan  with  the  cloves,  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  sugar  and  just  enough 
water  to  cover  them  ;  set  in  the  oven  and  stew  slowly  till  tender,  but 
not  broken.  Take  up  the  pears,  leaving  the  liquor,  and  put  them 
on  a  dish  for  the  table.  To  every  cupful  of  the  liguor  allow  the  1-2 
ounce  of  gelatine,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  1-2  lemon,  and 
wine.  Let  these  ingredients  boil  quickly  for  5  minutes,  strain  the 


474  FRUITS. 

rather  warm  liquid  over  the  pears  and  set  them  in  a  cool  place ; 
when  cold,  serve  on  a  glass  dish. 

NOTE. — If  a  pink  color  is  desired  for  the  jelly,  add  a  few  drops  of 
cochineal. 

BAKED  PEARS. — Mrs.  Stubbs. — Place  in  a  stone  bowl  or  dish  first 
a  layer  of  pears  (without  paring),  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  pears, 
and  so  on  till  the  jar  is  full ;  then  put  in  as  much  water  as  it  will 
hold.  Bake  in  oven  3  hours.  Very  nice. 

To  KEEP  PEACHES  FOR  WINTER  USE. — Take  the  soundest  and 
gently  wipe  off  the  fur,  then  varnish  it  over  with  gum  arabic  water ; 
when  this  is  dry,  varnish  them  over  twice  more  ond  set  them  away 
carefully,  so  as  not  to  bruise  them.  When  you  wish  to  use  them, 
the  varnish  will  break  off  very  easily,  so  you  can  have  ripe  peaches  in 
mid  winter. 

FRIED  PLUMS. — Put  i  Ib.  of  plums  with  1-2  wine,  1-2  water,  a 
piece  of  sugar,  some  cinnamon  and  lemon  peel  to  the  fire  and  boil 
till  soft,  then  put  them  on  a  plate.  Let  them  get  cold  ;  take  out  the 
stone  of  each  plum  and  put  in  its  place  a  shelled  almond.  Now  stir 
a  ladleful  of  flour  and  an  egg  with  some  wine  till  smooth  ;  let  i  1-2 
oz.  of  butter  warm  with  1-2  glass  of  wine;  mix  this  with  the  said 
batter;  it  must,  however,  be  a  little  thicker  than  pancake  batter,  so 
that  too  much  does  not  stick  to  the  plums.  Turn  the  plums  in  this 
batter,  fry  them  in  lard  till  of  a  light  brown  ;  strew  them  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon. 

N.  B. — Peaches,  pears  and  cantaloupes  are  prepared  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  fried  apple  slices. 

To  DRY  CHFRRIES  WITH  SUGAR. — Stone  6  pounds  of  sour  cher- 
ries, put  them  in  a  preserving  pan  with  2  Ibs.  of  loaf  sugar,  pounded 
and  strewed  among  them  ;  simmer  them  till  they  shrivel,  then  strain 
them  from  the  juice,  lay  them  on  a  hot  surface  or  in  an  oven  that  is 
cool  enough  to  dry  without  baking  them.  The  same  syrup  will  do 
another  6  Ibs.  of  fruit. 

PEACH  LEATHER, — Take  soft  peaches  and  remove  the  skins  from 
them,  mash  to  a  pulp  and  force  them  through  a  colander.  If  the 
peaches  are  not  very  ripe,  add  a  little  sugar  to  them.  Butter  well 
panes  of  glass  (large  ones  are  best),  spread  the  paste  smoothly  upon 
them,  set  in  the  sun  to  dry;  when  dry  on  one  side,  turn  it.  and  when 
thoroughly  dry,  roll  and  keep  in  boxes  with  finely  powdered  sugar 
dusted  over  them.  Butter  strips  of  cloth  and  spread  upon  well  sea- 
soned boards  when  glass  is  not  convenient. 


FIG   CULTIVATION.  475 


DRIED  FRUITS. 

THE  CITRON  TO  PRESERVE  OR  DRY. — The  citron  should  be  cut  in 
strips  and  laid  on  a  clean  board,  or  on  dishes  and  dried  in  the  sun 
as  other  fruits. 

To  DRY  CITRON  OR  WATER  MELON  RIND.— Place  in  the  sun  to  dry 
after  preserving  them.  Either  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  the  im- 
ported citron,  in  making  puddings  and  cakes. 

To  DRY  FIGS. — Make  a  moderate  strong  ley  of  soda  and  water, 
then  dip  the  ripe  figs  in  it,  and  wipe  them  dry.  Make  a  syrup  of 
one-half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  the  figs;  when  of  sufficient  thick- 
ness, drop  the  fruit  in  and  let  them  scald  well.  Take  them  up,  and 
place  them  on  a  flat  dish  and  stem  upwards,  place  the  bottom  of 
another  dish  or  plate,  and  press  them  gradually  to  Hat  shapes.  Sprinkle 
them  \vith  fine  sugar,  and  set  in  the  hot  sun  with  a  frame  cover,  made 
of  very  coarse  musquito  net,  stretched  over  a  frame  of  slats  to  pre- 
vent the  insects  from  getting  to  them,  or  a  frame  work  of  wire  gauze. 
Turn  them  with  a  knife  when  dry,  pack  them  in  boxes  or  jars,  with 
sugar  between  the  layer  of  figs.  If  the  weather  is  damp,  dry  in  an 
oven  or  stove. 

DRYING  FIGS. — Pick  the  figs  when  thoroughly  ripe,  dry  them  on 
sacks  as  you  would  other  fruit,  in  the  sun,  four  or  five  days,  or  until 
the  water  they  contain  is  thoroughly  evaporated.  If  there  is  any 
dew,  cover  them  over  at  nights.  Then  place  them  in  a  vessel  per- 
forated with  holes,  like  a  colander,  and  dip  them  into  boiling  water 
for  one  minute,  after  which  expose  them  to  the  sun  until  the  surface 
water  is  evaporated,  then  lay  them  in  wood,  tin,  earthern  or  other 
vessels,  and  keep  closely  so  as  to  exclude  the  air,  and  cover  securely. 
In  this  way  it  is  reported  figs  have  been  preserved  equally  to  the 
best  imported.  The  scalding  answers  the  double  purpose  of  killing 
all  insects'  eggs  and  softening  the  skin  of  the  fruit  so  that  the  sugar 
will  come  to  the  surface,  as  may  be  seen  in  imported  figs. 

HOW  FIGS  ARE  CULTIVATED  IN  FLORIDA. 

This  mode  of  cultivation  will  apply  in  every  way  to  the  southern 
portion  of  the  United  States  as  well  as  Mexico,  where  it  will  grow  in 
almost  any  kind  of  soil,  and  very  luxuriantly  in  a  rich  heavy  soil. 
But  to  produce  the  most  valuable  fruit  for  commerce,  the  tree  should 
grow  in  a  soil  of  good  depth,  rich,  light  and  sandy.  This  will  pro- 
duce a  white  thin  skin  of  the  best  quality.— Repairing  the  soil. — 
Before  plowing  the  ground  over  two  or  three  times  to  a  consider- 
able depth,  till  well  pulverized,  and  freed  from  vegetation ,  and  ex 


476  FRUIT    CULTIVATION. 

trasieuiis  roots.  The  figs  are  propogated  from  slips,  selected  with  as 
many  joint  buds  as  possible.  To  form  a  tree  two  slips  are  placed 
one  foot  apart,  and  then  joined  at  the  top.  The  trees  if  planted  in 
rich  soil,  should  be  placed  about  thirty  feet  apart,  and  for  poor  soil  25 
feet  distant  from  each  other.  The  cuttings  are  planted  in  the  month 
of  March,  two  in  a  hole — about  nine  or  twelve  inches  apart  at  the 
root  end,  then  gradually  bring  the  top  buds  to  meet  just  crossing 
them  like  an  X;  then  tread  in  the  earth  well.  The  cuttings  must  be 
full  of  buds  or  eyes,  and  when  about  to  plant  them  cut  the  root  end 
off  at  the  first  knot,  care  being  taken  not  leave  any  of  the  pulp  in 
sight,  as  it  will  then  be  liable  to  be  attacked  with  worms,  which  will 
make  the  tree  hollow  and  sickly.  The  cuttings  are  put  into  the 
ground  within  an  inch  or  two  of  the  top,  after  which  the  process  of 
crossing  must  take  place.  The  ground  must  be  trodden  within  one  or 
two  inches  of  the  top,  then  cover  the  remainder  over  with  loose  earth, 
which  will  protect  the  ends  from  the  heat  of  the  sun.  When  the 
trees  arrive  to  the  height  of  a  man,  cut  off  the  tops  to  one  uniform 
height  and  this  will  cause  the  tree  to  branch  out.  During  the  youth  of 
the  tree,  the  ground  should  be  plowed  up  two  or  three  times  during  the 
winter  or  spring,  and  the  space  between  them  may  be  used  to  cul- 
tivate any  thing  you  wish.  The  system  of  plowing  should  be  kept 
up,  otherwise  the  fruit  will  depreciate  in  size  and  quality. 

To  DRY  THE  OLIVE. — Chinese. — The  Chinese  sprinkle  them  with 
salt,  dry  them,  and  pack  them  away  as  herrings  are  packed.  Thus 
prepared  they  are  not  objectionable,  and  in  flavor  they  resemble  the 
herring. 

ORANGES  EATEN  BEFORE  BREARFAST. — A  distinguished  physician 
has  said  that  if  his  patients  would  make  a  practice  of  eating  a  good 
orange  before  breakfast  from  February  to  June  his  practice  would 
be  gone. 

How  TO  PRESERVE  ORANGES  AND  LEMONS  AFTER  THEY  BECOME 
SPECKED. — Buy  a  number  of  dry  and  damaged  fruit,  cut  out  the 
specks, peel  them  in  as  large  pieces  as  you  can,  boil  them,chop  the  boil- 
ed peels  fine,  weigh  them  and  the  pulp,  which  may  be  chopped  with 
them,  and  allow  i  pound  of  sugar  to  i  pound  of  fruit.  As  the  fruit 
is  the  most  valuable,  you  need  not  grudge  the  sugar.  Make  a 
syrup  of  the  sugar,  for  which  you  may  use  a  little  of  the  last  boil- 
ing water  from  the  peel ;  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  i  hour  till  it  is 
thick  and  stirs  heavily.  Lemons  are  less  juicy  than  oranges,  and 
require  a  rather  thinner  syrup.  Use  these  marmalades  either  to  eat 
with  bread  or  to  make  pies  or  puddings. 

EDIBLE  PASSION  FLOWER  FRUIT. — The  small  grows  in  temperate 
climates  as  well  as  in  torrid  climates.  The  seeds  are  enclosed  in  a 
pulpy  mass,  which  is  of  delicious  flavor.  The  large  fruit  grows  in 


FIG   CULTIVATION.  477 

torrid  zones,  and  are  of  enormous  size.  The  pulp  is  excellent,  and 
much  enjoyed. 

STRAWBERRY  CULTURE. — Pennsylvania. — How  to  grow  strawber- 
ries properly  for  home  use  is  a  question  that  has  never  yet  been  en- 
tirely settled  to  the  satisfaction  of  every  one.  We  believe,  however, 
that  most  persons  prefer  growing  them  in  beds,  with  runners  kept 
off  by  constant  cutting,  and  then  mulch  the  surface  of  the  soil  to 
preserve  a  fair  amount  of  moisture.  In  forming  beds  there  also  ex- 
ists a  great  diversity  of  opinion  in  relation  to  the  distance  apart  to 
set  plants.  I  believe  in  plenty  of  room  when  extra  fine  fruit  as  well 
as  plenty  of  it  is  required.  I  am  aware  that  some  English  garden- 
ers, for  the  purpose  of  securing  exhibition  fruit,  set  their  plants  two 
feet  apart  in  the  rows,  and  the  rows  3  feet  apart.  Others  again  ad- 
vocate planting  them  i  foot  apart,  with  2  feet  between  the  rows; 
and  after  one  crop  of  fruit  has  been  gathered,  remove  each  alter- 
nate plant  in  the  row,  thus  leaving  a  space  of  2  feet  each  way  be- 
tween the  plants.  Of  course  no  careful,  neat  gardener  would  think 
of  allowing  his  runners  to  encumber  the  ground  for  the  purpose  of 
securing  a  large  amount  of  little,  imperfect  berries.  Such  a  course 
is  always  attended  with  positive  loss,  and  is  indicative  of  sloven- 
liness. When  grown  as  I  have  suggested,  say  2  feet  apart  each 
way,  or  at  most  2  feet  by  18  inches,  and  then  carefully  cultivated 
and  enriched  every  year  bountifully,  I  believe  that  most  kinds 
will  live  and  be  profitable  for  6  or  8  years.  I  know  the  Tri- 
umphe  de  Grand  in  heavy  soils  will,  and  the  quantity  of  fruit  will 
annually  increase  as  the  plants  gets  older.  An  excellent  way  to 
apply  the  manure  is  to  spread  it  over  the  surface  liberally  in  the 
autumn  and  in  the  spring  fork  it  under,  covering  at  once  with  the 
mulching  material. 

PRUNING  BLACKBERRIES. — Germantown  Telegraph. — Persons  hav- 
ing cultivated  the  new  Rochelle  blackberry  are  possessed  of  suffi- 
cient knowledge  to  understand  the  fact  that  the  longer  they  allow 
the  caries  to  remain  unpruned  the  lateral  branches  are  proportionally 
slender  and  the  fruit  smaller.  To  obtain  the  largest  sized  berries 
and  the  largest  quantity,  too,  cut  back  the  leading  canes  to  not  ex- 
ceeding 4  feet  in  length  and  shorten  also  the  lateral  branches.  This 
will  be  found  to  increase  also  tl\e  length  and  breadth  of  the  stool, 
affording  more  bearing  room,  and  generally  to  result  in  greatly  im- 
proving the  crop.  It  is  not  too  late  yet  to  shorten  in  where  it  has 
been  much  neglected,  as  we  often  see  in  some  of  our  gardens.  In 
July  the  young  wood,  which  by  that  time  has  grown  over  the  tops  of 
the  old,  bending  canes,  should  be  clipped,  especially  the  lateral 
branches.  It  will  have  the  best  effect  upon  the  next  year's 
crop. 


478  TREES  AND  SHRUBS. 


TREES  AND  SHRUBS. 

FRENCH  METHOD  OF  GRAFTING. — Long  a  secret. — A  limb  of  wil- 
low, 3  or  4  inches  thick,  was  buried  in  a  trench  deep  enough  to  re- 
ceive it,  and  at  the  distance  of  every  4  or  or  5  inches  holes  were 
bored,  into  which  grafts  were  inserted,  care  being  taken  to  make  the 
bark  of  the  graft  and  the  limb  into  which  it  was  inserted  touch  ;  the 
lower  part  of  the  graft  was  pointed  and  the  bark  shaved  off.  The 
limb  and  the  grafts  were  then  covered  with  earth,  and  about  two 
inches  of  the  latter  above  the  surface.  In  process  of  time  the  wil- 
low limb  rotted,  and  the  grafts  took  root.  The  different  grafts  were 
then  dug  up  and  transplanted. 

WHEN  TO  GRAFT. — Cut  last  year's  shoots  in  February ;  graft 
from  the  time  the  sap  runs  until  the  bark  sticks  in  spring. 

GRAFTING  WAX. — Liquid. — For  covering  wounds  in  trees,  kept 
in  wide-mouthed  bottles,  closely  corked.  It  is  laid  on  in  as 
thin  a  coat  as  possible  with  a  flat  wood  paddle.  Within  a  few  days 
it  is  as  hard  as  stone.  There  is  no  better  preparation  for  this  pur- 
pose. It  is  made  as  follows  :  Melt  i  pound  of 'resin  over  a  gentle 
lire,  add  to  it  i  ounce  of  beef  tallow  and  stir  it  well ;  take  it  from 
the  fire,  let  it  cool  a  liftle,  and  then  mix  with  it  a  tabiespoonful  of 
spirits  of  turpentine  and  i  ounce  of  25  per  cent,  alcohol.  Thealco- 
nol  cools  it  down  so  rapidly  that  it  will  be  necessary  to  put  it  on  the 
fire  again.  Stir  constantly;  be  careful  not  to  let  the  alcobol  take 
fire.  To  prevent  this,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  when  the  lumps  be- 
gin to  form  put  it  back  again,  and  this  must  be  continued  until  the 
mass  is  similar  to  liquid  honey. 

To  CURE  GUMMY  TREES. — Apply  a  paste  over  the  parts  made  of 
horse  droppings,  clay  and  tar.  The  places  should  be  washed  per- 
fectly clean  before  the  application. 

ACACIA  is  supposed  to  be  the  burning  bush,  and  the  consecrated 
timber  of  the  tabernacle. 

THE  AILANTHUS  AND  CASTOR  OIL  SILK  WORMS. — The  silk  pro- 
duced by  the  worm  fed  on  the  leaf  of  the  alanthus,  is  considered 
more  valuable  than  that  fed  on  the  castor  bean  leaf.  It  takes  dye 
easier,  is  more  durable,  it  is  mere  brilliant,  smooth  and  supple.  It 
lasts  double  as  long,  it  does  not  easily  spot,  and  washes  like  linen. 
The  ailanthus  is  so  easily  grown  that  it  becomes  almost  a  nuisance, 
in  temperate  latitudes,  and  when  dry  the  wood  burns  like  punk. 
The  silk  is  coarser  than  that  produced  by  the  mulberry  leaf.  It 
grows  in  China  and  Japan.  It  puts  up  a  considerable  number  of 
shoots,  and  the  seeds  are  blown  about  by  the  wind. 

IN  PLANTING  OUT  APPLE  TREES. — Have  an  eye  to  dry  rising 
ground,  sheltered  from  the  northern  and  southern  winds. 


TREES  AND  SHRUBS.  479 

NUTRICIOUS  PROPERTIES  OF  APPLES. — It  has  been  found  from 
careful  analysis,  that  the  apple  contains  a  larger  amount  of  phos- 
pcrous  or  brain  food  than  any  other  fruit  or  vegetable  and  on  this 
account  they  are  very  important  to  sedentary  men,  the  action  of 
whose  livers  are  too  sluggish,  to  eliminate  effete  matter,  which  if  re- 
tained in  the  system,  produce  inaction  of  the  brain,  and  indeed  of  the 
whole  system,  causing  jaundice,  sleepiness,  drowsiness  and  trouble 
some  diseases  of  the  skin. 

THE  CUSTARD  APPLE. — Is  like  a  thin  rough  bag,  acocoanut  full 
of  custard,  and  such  a  custard  no  cook  ever  yet  achieved.  Is  eaten 
with  a  spoon. 

THK  BANANA. — Grows  easily  from  the  suckors,  and  according 
to  Humbolt,  is  33  times  as  prolific  as  wheat  and  44  times  as 
prolific  as  the  potato. 

BANANA  TREES. — Every  family  should  have  them  for  their  own  use 
in  the  land  of  fruits.  They  will  grow  from  suckers  easily. 

PLANTAINS. — Can  be  cooked  like  apples,  or  sliced  and  fried  in 
fat  or  oil. 

IN  JAVA. — I  saw  them  fried  in  cocoanut  oil.  The  plantain  is 
twice  larger  than  the  banana;  with  the  pine  apples,  they  both  nestle 
in  the  green  borders  of  large  or  small  forms. 

THE  BANANA  is  a  thoroughly  tropical  plant.  When  planted  on 
plantations,  the  stumps  are  planted  from  6  to  10  feet  apart  each 
way.  In  tropical  and  semi-tropical  countries  they  grow  with 
scarcely  any  care  if  the  roots  can  have  access  to  water.  They 
bear  in  ten  months  from  planting,  one  bunch  of  fruit  to  each  tree. 
Planted  in  holes  18  inches  deep,  10  feet  apart,  which  is  partly  filled 
with  rubbish  and  then  with  earth  in  which  the  stubble  is  set,  and 
the  soil  pressded  firmly  in. 

BEEF  SUET  TREE. — Grows  on  the  Mississippi  river,  with  scarlet 
acid  berries  about  the  size  of  red  currants,  but  much  richer  in  taste, 
and  much  cherished;  grows  in  continued  clusters,  and  should  be 
grown  in  California. 

THE  HORSE  CHESTNUT. — The  French  make  a  starch  of  it. 

THE  OLEANDER. — The  wood,  the  leaves,  flowers  and  bark  are 
poisonous,  Children  have  been  seriously,  if  not  fatally  poisoned 
from  sucking  the  flowers.  An  infusion  of  the  leaves  will  kill  insects 
and  the  bark  rats.  Farmers  in  Bermuda  are  under  the  impression 
that  the  plant  poisons  the  grass,  and  animals  are  killed  by  eating  it. 
Perhaps  the  dead  leaves  fall  on  and  among  the  grass  and  are  eaten 
with  it.  In  Bermuda  they  use  the  oleander  to  form  hedges. 

How  TO  PLANT  AN  ORANGE  GROVE. — Treatise  on  orange  culture, 
— For  your  prospective  orange  grove  remove  all  roots  and  stumps, 
thoroughly  plow  and  harrow  the  same.  Lay  off  the  rows  and  set 


480  TREES  AND  SHRUBS. 

out  your  3  or  4  year-old  sweet  seedling  orange  trees,  procured  from 
any  nurseryman,  20  or  26  feet  apart  each  way.  Plant  50  or  not 
more  than  100  sions,  as  you  cannot  for  several  years  do  justice  to 
any  more.  You  can  add  to  these  by  seedlings  of  your  own  grow- 
ing, as  you  should  save  and  plant  every  seed  from  good  oranges 
that  comes  into  your  possession.  When  buying  your  seedlings  see 
that  they  are  thrifty,  free  from  insects,  and  are  the  owners  of  good, 
fibrous  roots.  Do  all  your  pruning  at  the  time  of  transplanting,  cut- 
ting away  sufficient  top  to  create  a  balance  between  the  top  and 
roots.  October  and  November  may  be  considered  the  best  months 
for  the  removal  of  the  trees,  as  it  is  the  commencement  of  a  resting 
period  for  all  of  the  tree  that  is  above  the  ground.  If  the  spring 
planting  is  preferred,  February  and  March  are  safe  months,  and  the 
trees  will  do  very  well.  Plant  no  other  trees  between  your  orange 
trees.  Set  your  trees  at  least  1-2  an  inch  higher  than  they  were  in 
the  nursery.  More  damage  is  done  by  setting  trees  too  low  than 
by  all  or  any  other  causes  combined. 

MANURE  FOR  ORANGE  TREES. — After  having  made  the  hole  for 
the  trees  to  be  planted  in,  take  some  wood  soil,  such  as  consists 
of  rotten  and  decayed  wood  or  leaves  or  well  rotten  composts, 
consisting  of  dirt,  lime,  leaves  and  road  or  lot  scrappings  (no 
fresh  animal  manure),  and  deposit  about  a  bucketful  or  two  in 
each  hole,  and  plant  the  tree  on  top ;  or,  which  we  consider  a 
better  plan,  set  the  tree  in  the  hole,  and  cover  the  roots  with  the 
above  manure,  shaking  the  tree  while  throwing  it  in,  and  finish 
with  the  original  soil  on  the  top.  There  should  be  no  manure  on 
the  surface,  where  soil  is  naturally  strong;  it  is  sufficient  to  cover  the 
roots  with  the  top  soil  taken  out  of  the  hole  on  top,  and  on  this 
spread  from  2  to  3  quarts  of  lime  (slacked).  After  planting  we 
would  advise  you  to  mulch  under  all  circumstances.  Salt  mash  grass 
is  the  very  best  material,  next  fine  straw,  dead  weeds,  &c.  Burnt 
oyster  shells  will  answer  the  purpose  where  lime  is  desired.  After 
having  been  applied  for  some  time,  and  when  weeds  commence  to 
appear,  incorporate  it  lightly  with  the  soil  with  a  hoe,  then  mulch. 

THE  TEAR  is  also  a  wild  fruit,  growing  wild  in  Europe,  and  is  culti- 
vated in  all  temperate  climates.  In  China  they  weigh  from  8  to  10 
pounds,  but  are  comparatively  insipid  and  of  coarse  grain.  Useful 
in  culinary  purposes,  well  spiced  and  sweetened  with  sugar.  I  have 
tasted  them  there,  but  found  them  rough  and  too  dry  to  eat  without 
the  aid  of  foreign  ingredients  after  being  exposed  to  a  toasting  heat 
for  some  time.  Of  this  most  delicious  and  almost  matchless  fruit, 
there  are  more  than  200  varieties.  More  than  2,000  years  ago  it 
was  known  to  the  Greeks  and  Romans. 

AVACATA  OR  ALIGATOR  PEAR. — The  latter  being  a  corruption  of 


TREES  AND  SHRUBS.  481 

the  true  name,  being  called  so  by  the  negroes  of  the  West  India 
Islands.  It  is  the  only  fruit  that  cats  will  eat.  In  Brazil  it  is  eaten 
with  wine  and  sugar.  In  the  West  Indies  with  pepper,  mustard  and 
vinegar  as  a  vegetable. 

PERSIMMONS,  THE  KIND.— Of  this  fruit  we  have  any  quantity 
and  different  kinds  all  over  the  Southern  and  Western  States,  but  are 
not  so  large  by  a  great  deal  as  those  in  China,  but  are  equally  as  de- 
licious, and  can  be  had  without  money  and  without  price,  so  great 
is  the  yield.  They  are  left  to  dry  on  the  trees,  and  in  January  and 
February  are  dry,  granulated  and  sweet.  I  have  seen  the  deep  yel- 
low and  green  persimmon  of  China  summer  and  autumn,  both 
equally  good  ripened  in  lime  artificially,  some  measuring  8  inches 
in  circumference.  Our  own  persimmons  are  valuable  for  making 
winter  beer,  which  I  have  tasted  equal  to  delicious  wine.  The  bark 
of  the  tree  is  good  in  making  black  die  for  woolen  goods,  and  that 
or  the  green  fruit  is  a  most  useful  and  valuable  astringent  in  making 
throat  gargles  and  in  diarrhea. 

THE  COCOANUT  TREE— ITS  VALUE.— Furnishes  the  inhabitants  of 
the  tropics  with  bread,  water,  and  wine  vinegar,  oil,  honey  and  su- 
gar. From  its  leaves,  shells  and  husks  of  the  fruit  they  obtain 
threads,  clothes,  vases,  cups,  baskets,  paper,  boat  sails  and  ropes. 
How  could  these  people  live  without  the  cocoanut  tree  ? 

THE  COCOA  grows  from  15  to  20  feet  high,  and  may  be  easily 
seen  from  a  distance  by  the  yellowish  green  leaves.  Should  be 
planted  12  feet  apart,  and  when  first  planted,  should  be  protected 
from  the  sun  by  a  plantain  leaf.  Three  years  after  planting  the  trees 
yield,  and  thereafter  require  but  little  attention.  The  nuts  or  fruit 
grow  directly  from  the  the  under  branches.  The  pulp  from  which 
the  seeds  are  taken  is  white,  and  makes  a  deliciously  refreshing 
drink,  called  cocoa  wine. 

To  PLANT  PEACHES.— In  October  excavate  a  bed  of  earth  5 
inches  deep,  place  in  the  stones  and  cover  with  earth  2  inches  deep, 
and  in  winter,  to  prevent  freezing,  cover  with  pine  boughs,  stalks  or 
straw.  In  the  spring,  as  soon  as  the  stones  begin  to  open  with  the 
swelling  kernel,  open  the  bed  and  plant  the  kernels  in  rows,  4  1-2 
feet  apart  and  distant  4  inches  from  each  other.  The  stones  that 
have  not  been  opened,  may  be  cracked  with  a  hammer  and  planted 
in  the  same  way.  Plough  and  cultivate  the  seedlings  until  "budding 
time,"  which  will  be  about  the  loth  of  August,  or  earlier,  according 
to  the  latitude.  Take  buds  from  thrifty  orchard  trees,  3  or  4  years 
old,  cut  the  buds  i  inch  long,  having  an  eye  in  the  middle.  The 
husk  will  easily  cleave  from  the  wood,  and  the  bud  without  the  wood 
is  best.  Slit  the  seedling  close  to  the  ground  and  insert  the  bud  and 
secure  it  by  wrapping  round  it  strands  of  Russia  mat,  twine,  or  any 


482  TREES  AND  SHRUBS. 

convenient  loose  wrapping  material.  In  a  few  days  the  bud  will  ad- 
here to  the  wood,  and  the  wrapping  can  be  removed.  Early  the  fol- 
lowing spring  cut  off  the  seedling  near  the  bud  (about  1-2  inch 
above  the  bud),  then  for  6  weeks  keep  the  stump  clear  from  suckers. 
In  the  fall  or  following  spring,  plant  the  seedling,  now  become  a 
Iree,  to  the  same  depth  as  they  stand  in  the  nursery,  and  from  15  to 
20  feet  apart.  In  all  cases,  peach  trees  should  be  planted  when  of 
one  season's  growth.  When  heads  are  forming,  carefully  prune,  so 
as  to  form  a  low  head  and  cut  off  useless  branches.  Pruning^is  best 
done  in  spring.  Shortening  one  half  of  the  growth  of  the  zd  and  3d 
years  after  pruning  and  keeping  the  inside  of  the  trees  clear  of  use- 
less growth,  is  all  that  is  required  in  the  way  of  pruning  before  the 
trees  commence  bearing. 

NOTE. — The  borers,  which  enter  the  body  of  the  tree,  or  a  little 
below  the  ground,  must  be  removed  with  a  knife  from  year  to  year. 
Peach  trees  grow  on  corn  land  and  require  about  the  same  cultiva- 
tion. No  manure  is  required  until  they  have  borne  one  crop.  Wood 
ashes,  bone  dust  or  guano  is  good. 

TANSY  AND  PEACHES. — I  remember  seeing  a  clump  of  peach  trees 
of  greater  altitude,  and  more  spreading  than  usual;  the  fruit  was  deli- 
cious, both  free  and  cling  stones.  A  large  damask  rose  bush  grew 
as  tall  as  the  trees,  and  the  flowers  hung  in  beautiful  clusters  from  the 
top,  which,  in  my  young  eyes,  were  more  beautiful  than  their  sisters 
which  were  tangible  to  me  ;  how  I  coveted  those  bright  roses.  This 
was  in  the  rear  portion  of  the  garden  at  my  great-grandmama's.  I 
remember  the  surroundings.  At  the  foot  of  those  trees  grew  a  per- 
fect carpet  of  ground  ivy,  and  hard  by,  large  beds  of  tansy,  feather 
few,  rue,  camomile,  lavender,  and  wormwood.  Now  why  did  those 
trees  continue  to  flourish  and  bear  good  fruit  so  long  ?  They  could 
not  have  been  less  than  50  years  old,  for  all  the  immediate  family 
was  dead,  while  my  blessed  grandmother  survived  to  smile  on  her 
4th  generation  through  the  vistas  of  ninety  winters. 

THE  PEACH  is  derived  from  the  small,  bitter  fruit,  which  grows  in 
its  natural  state  in  Russia.  The  parent  fruit  posesses  no  poisonous 
properties. 

THE  QUINCE. — Grows  wild  in  Asia,  but  more  particularly  in  the 
western  part,  among  the  Ural  Mountains  and  in  the  neighboring 
parts  of  Europe  and  Asia. 

TABLE  OF  DISTANCES,  at  which  trees,  etc.,  should  be  planted: 
Standard  apple  trees — 20  to  30  feet  each  way ;  dwarf  varieties  of 
apples — 8  to  10  feet;  standard  pear  trees — 20  feet;  dwarf  varieties 
of  pear — 6  to  xofeet;  standard  cherry  trees — 20  feet;  dwarf  varie- 
ties— 10  feet;  peach,  plum,  apricot — 12  to  20  feet;  gooseberries, 
raspberries,  blackberries — 3  to  8  feet ;  grape  vines — 5  to  8  feet. 


TREKS  AND  SHRUBS.  483 

BIDDING  THE  ROSE. — This  can  be  performed  at  any  time  when 
both  stock  and  bud  are  in  proper  condition.  The  bark  of  the 
stock  must  peel  freely  from  its  woody  foundation  in  order  that  the 
bud  may  be  successfully  inserted.  It  is  not  necessary  that  the  bark 
of  the  bud  should  peel,  but  a  thin  slice  of  the  wood  can  remain  at- 
tached to  the  bud  and  be  successfully  introduced  and  propogated; 
but  the  best  condition  with  an  experienced  operator,  is  when  the 
bark  is  separated  from  the  wood,  all  except  a  very  small  portion  pro- 
jecting up  into  the  rose  bud;  this  allowed  to  remain,  and  the  bark 
and  bfld  inserted  in  the  usual  way.  Usually  the  budding  of  the  rose 
is  performed  to  the  best  advantage  from  April  till  July  inclusive, 
but  if  the  shrub  is  growing  freely,  the  bark  is  usually  in  a  condition 
to  peel  and  then  budding  can  be  performed  with  very  certain 
success. 

ROSE  BUDS  TO  PRESERVE. — A  German  way. — To  keep  fresh 
during  the  winter,  first  cover  the  recently  cut  stem  with  wax,  and 
then  placing  each  one  in  closed  paper  cap  or  cover,  so  that  the 
leaves  do  not  touch  the  paper.  The  cap  is  then  coated  with  glue, 
to  exclude  the  air,  dust,  and  moisture,  and  when  dry.i  t  is  stood  up 
in  a  cool  place.  When  wanted  for  use,  the  bud  is 'taken  out  of  the 
cup  and  placed  in  water,  after  cutting  the  ends,  when  the  rose  will 
bloom  in  a  few  hours. 

THE  ROSE. — The  rose  is  emblematical  of  everything  beautiful, 
pure  and  delightful — poetic  image  of  purity  and  innocence. 
Among  the  ancients,  the  emblem  of  joy,  and  love,  and  prudence.  It 
requires  two  hundred  roses  to  make  i  oz.  of  the  attar. 

LEAVES  OF  THE  TEA  ROSE  are  valuable  in  flavoring  tea. 

TEA  is  raised  in  Brazil  from  the  seed,  which  is  preserved  in  brown 
sugar.  Can  be  transported  to  any  part  of  the  country.  It  is 
planted  in  beds,  then  like  the  cabbage  plants,  transplanted  to  the 
fields.  Set  about  five  feet  apart.  Kept  clean  by  the  hoe  and 
plough.  Pruned  to  about  four  feet  high.  Bears  in  three  years. 

TREES,  THEIR  USE  IN  PROTECTING  ANIMALS  FROM  THE  HEAT. — 
Shade  trees  should  be  in  every  pasture,  near  every  barn  and  by 
every  watering  place,  under  which  animals  may  screen  themselves 
from  the  heat  of  a  summer's  sun.  The  milk  will  be  better  as  well 
as  the  flesh  and  fleece  of  the  animals. 

FRUIT  TREES. — Boil  one  tablespoonful  of  borax  in  a  pint  of  water. 
Paint  the  stems  of  the  fruit  trees  with  the  liquid.  This  will  destroy 
the  green  fungi,  and  prevent  insect  life  from  forming  in  the  bark, 
and  make  the  tree  healthy. 

WOOD  ASHES. — For  fruit  trees. — Sprinkle  some  on  the  tops  and 
limbs  when  moist  with  dew,  then  cover  the  ground  with  ashes  at  the 
roots.  It  forms  an  excellent  manure. 


484  THE  VINEYARD. 

To  PREPARE  NAILS  FOR  WALL  TREES.--These  should  be  of  cast 
iron  if  they  can  be  obtained.  Before  using,  they  should  be  heated 
redhot,  and  then  thrown  into  cold  linseed  oil.  This  gives  them  a 
varnish  which  preserves  them  from  rusting  and  prevents  the  mortar 
of  the  wall,  from  sticking  to  them  when  they  are  drawn. 

COMPOSITION  FOR  WOUNDS  ON  ROSE  BUSHES. — 5  parts  pitch,  i  part 
each  resin,  beef  tallow,  beeswax.  These  should  be  mixed  in  a  small 
boiler,  and  dissolved  over  a  slow  fire;  apply  it  to  the  wounds  with 
a  brush,  and  it  will  heal  them  as  well  as  prevent  them  from  dying. 

THE  VINEYARD. 

AVERAGE  production  of  the  grape  per  acre,  8,000  pounds. 

TENDRIL  OF  THE  GRAPE. — Its  taste,  while  green,  is  a  true  index 
to  what  kind  of  fruit.  The  taste  of  the  seedling  may  be  used  in  the 
same  way. 

To  PROTECT  GRAPES  FROM  WASPS. — Plant  near  the  grapes  some 
yew  trees,  and  the  wasps  will  prefer  the  yew  tree  berries  and  will 
wholly  neglect  the  grapes. 

BLEEDING  IN  VINES. — Work  together  i  part  calcined  oyster  shells 
beaten  to  a  fine  powder  in  a  mortar  and  3  parts  cheese  until  they 
form  a  sort  of  paste.  This  mixture  is  to  be  spread  into  the  pores 
of  the  wood,  when  bleeding  takes  place,  by  means  of  the  thumb 
and  finger.  A  second  application  is  sometimes  necessary. 

MILDEW  ON  GRAPES. — As  soon  as  the  leaves  are  fairly  out  of  the 
buds  apply  flowers  of  sulphur,  and  again  when  the  stems  are  formed 
and  the  blossoms  are  fully  open.  No  mildew  will  occur  as  the  sulphur 
enters  among  the  circulation  of  the  plant. 

KEEPING  GRAPES. — In  cutting  the  grapes  leave  the  bunches  at- 
tached to  the  branches  that  bore  them  ;  sharpen  the  points  of  the 
branches  where  they  have  been  detached  from  the  parent  stem  and 
run  them  a  couple  of  inches  into  mangel  wortzel  beets;  then 
lay  them  on  a  shelf  of  the  fruit  room  and  allow  the  grapes  to  hang 
over  the  shelf,  where  they  can  be  cut  as  required.  They  will  keep 
plump  all  the  winter. 

THE  GRAPE  is  an  important  branch  of  rural  economy,  and  should 
have  a  sunny  exposure.  There  are  more  than  1,500  varieties  of 
the  grape.  It  should  never  be  planted  in  a  moist  soil. 

THE  history  of  the  grape  is  as  old  as  that  of  man.  All  varie- 
ties of  the  wine  grape  came  originally  from  Persia.  The  Mus- 
cat and  Hamburgh,  the  most  popular  when  dried,  forms  the  rai- 
sin of  commerce,  and  produce  the  finest  of  wines. 

KEEPING  GRAPES. — They  should  remain  on  the  vine  until  the  end 
of  November,  taking  care  to  supply  them  with  plenty  of  air  and  a 


VINEGARS.  485 

little  fire  for  an  hour  or  two  every  day  when  the  weather  is  damp, 
but  no  heat  should  remain  in  the  flues  at  night.  After  that  month 
they  should  be  cut.  Carefully  wrap  the  bunches  in  paper  and  sus- 
pend them  in  a  dry  room  moderately  warmed.  They  will  remain 
fresh  till  the  spring. 

GRAPES  TO  KEEP. — Chinese  method. — Cut  a  circular  piece  out  of 
a  pumpkin  or  gourd  just  large  enough  to  admit  the  hand,  remove 
the  inside,  put  the  grapes  in,  and  press  the  piece  back  firmly. 
Keep  the  pumpkin  in  a  cool  place. 

GRAPES  FOR  WINTER  USE. — Take  ripe  grapes,  pick  off  from  the 
stems,  wash  them  perfectly  clean,  place  in  jars  and  cover  with  mo- 
lasses. After  two  or  three  days  seal  over  and  tie  up  tightly. 
For  mince  pies  and  seasoning  in  winter  they  are  delicious. 

To  PRESERVE  GRAPES  WITH  PAPEK. — First  pick  off  all  unsound 
or  unripe  grapes  and  lay  the  clusters  in  an  empty  room  on  papers 
till  dry,  for  in  all  packages  some  will  be  crushed  and  dampen  oth- 
ers ;  then  any  empty  crate  will  do  to  pack  them  in.  First  a  layer  of 
grapes,  then  a  thickness  of  paper,  so  as  to  exclude  the  air  and  keep 
them  separate,  then  grapes,  then  paper,  and  so  on  till  you  have  3 
or  4  layers— -no  more  than  4.  If  the  box  is  to  hold  more,  put  in  a 
partition  to  support  the  others  that  are  to  be  packed. 

VINEGAKS. 

HORSERADISH  VINEGAR. — Into  a  bottle  put  1-4  Ib  of  powdered 
horseradish,  i  ounce  of  bruised  shalot,  i  spoonful  of  cayenne,  i 
quart  of  vinegar,  which  shake  every  day  for  a  fortnight.  After  steep- 
ing thoroughly,  strain  and  bottle,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  immediate 
use.  It  is  an  agreeable  relish  to  cold  meats  of  any  kind.  In  Octo- 
ber or  November  the  root  is  then  in  its  highest  perfection,  and  the 
vinegar  should  be  then  made,  and  should  be  closely  corked  after  and 
when  not  in  use. 

CIDER  VINEGAR. — Take  it  from  the  press  and  pour  it  in  a  cask, 
and  let  it  remain  in  a  warm  place  with  the  bung  out,  and  in  6  or  8 
months  the  vinegar  will  be  excellent.  Should  the  cask  leak,  stop 
the  crack  with  tallow  or  dry  rye  flour. 

CIDER  VINEGAR  No.  2. — To  each  gallon  of  cider  put  a  pound  of 
white  sugar,  and  let  them  steep  together  well  and  ferment  for  four 
months,  and  a  strong  and  well  colored  vinegar  will  be  the  result. 

ESCHOLET,  OR  GARLIC  VINEGAR. — Clean,  peel  and  powder  4  ozs. 
ofshalots,  or  half  the  quantity  of  garlic,  in  the  season  when  they  are 
young  and  tender  and  not  acrid,  steep  them  in  a  quart  of  the  best 
vinegar  and  bottle  for  use. 

STRAWBERRY  VINEGAR, — Take  the  strawberries  that  are  fresh  and 


486  VINEGARS. 

ripe,  tie  a  thick  paper  over  over  the  mouth  of  the  vessel  in  which 
they  are  placed  and  mash  them  and  let  them  remain  3  or  4  days, 
then  place  them  in  a  jelly,  or  linen,  or  flannel  bag,  and  suspend  them 
over  a  vessel,  so  that  it  can  drain  freely  without  pressure.  Measure 
it  after  straining,  and  for  every  quart  of  juice  put  1-2  Ib.  of  refined 
sugar  coarsly  powdered;  when  nearly  dissolved,  stir  the  syrup  over 
a  clear  fire,  and  after  it  has  boiled  4  or  5  minutes,  skim  it  thorough- 
ly Pour  it  into  a  clean  stone  or  china  jug  or  pitcher;  cork  slightly 
for  several  days  or  it  may  burst,  then  cork  tightly  in  4  or  5  days 
place  in  a  cool  dry  place.  A  spoonful  or  two  in  a  glass  of  water 
makes  a  delightful  summer  drink  and  is  valuable  in  cases  of  sick- 
ness, and  is  much  relished  by  invalids. 

BLACKBERRY  VINEGAR,  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  that 
strawberrry  vinegar  is  prepared,  and  makes  a  most  delightful  sum- 
mer drink  by  mixing  it  with  water ;  seasoning  sauces,  etc. 

RASPBERRY  JUICE. — Crush  well  some  ripe  raspberries  and  keep 
them  overnight  in  a  jar  in  a  cellar;  next  day  squeeze  the  juice 
through  a  cloth  ;  allow  i  Ib.  of  sugar  to  i  Ib.  of  juice.  Put  the  liquid 
to  the  fire,  and  after  skimming  it  well,  boil  it  till  clear.  This  will  be 
done  in  1-2  hour.  When  cool,  bottle  and  ccrk  it  well.  Tie  up  and 
keep  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

CHERRY  VINEGAR. — Take  black  cherries,  pick  off  the  stalks,  crush 
them  in  a  mortar  and  treat  them  like  raspberry  juice. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. — Mrs.  E's.  Recipe. — Put  3  pounds  of  the 
fruit  and  i  pound  of  sugar  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  mash  them  well 
together;  cook  the  juice  for  20  minutes,  then  stir  in  1-2  pint  of  cider 
vinegar  to  every  pound.  Give  it  one  boil  up  and  strain  it.  When 
cold,  bottle  and  cork  it.  This  keeps  well,  but  does  not  have  the  ex- 
quisite flavor  of  the  fresh  fruit  the  other  has.  I  have  tested  both 
for  years.  Strawberry,  blackberry  and  raspberry  vinegars  are  made 
alike. 

CRAB  APPLE  VINEGAR. — Lay  ripe  crab  apples  in  a  heap  to  sweat, 
then  throw  away  the  stalks  and  decayed  fruit ;  mash  the  apples  and 
express  the  juice.  A  cider  or  wine  press  would  be  useful  for  this 
purpose.  Strain  it,  and  in  one  month  it  will  be  ready  for  use,  and  is 
the  best  simple  substitute  for  lemon  juice  that  can  be  found. 

VINEGAR  FROM  THE  LEES  OF  SPIRIT  OR  WINE  CASKS. — From  what- 
ever substance  vinegar  is  produced,  it  advances  more  rapidly  if  put 
in  a  cask.  Put  the  lees  into  a  cask  or  stone  jar  reserved  for  the  pur- 
pose, when  you  have  a  sufficient  quantity,  boil  the  whole  briskly  for 
1-2  hour,  skimming  it  well,  and  then  return  it  to  a  clean  dry  cask, 
and  to  every  gallon  of  vinegar  put  a  pint  of  best  white  wine  vinegar 
and  a  few  leaves  of  curled  mustard.  Stop  the  cask,  and  in  i  month 
the  vinegar  will  be  good. 


VINEGARS.  487 

VEGETABLE  VINEGAR.— Have  ready  a  jar,  keg  or  barrel  and  when 
ever  you  have  scraps  of  fruit,  raw,  dried  or  cooked,  or  vegetables, 
throw  them  into  this  vessel,  put  boards  or  weights  over  it  when  it 
ferments  and  strain  off  the  liquor  into  bottles ;  put  in  the  sun.  Syr- 
ups,  preserves,  sugar,  etc.,  left  from  meals,  can  be  used;  paiings  and 
cores  of  fruit  also.  The  vinegar  is  pure  and  good. 

N.  B. — Vegetable  vinegars  are  wholesome  and  nearest  in  nature 
to  the  qualities  of  the  stomach  juices,  which  perform  the  offices  of 
digestion,  and  hence,  ordinarily,  they  must  promote  and  aid  diges- 
tion. 

Tickles,  when  made  with  vegetable  vinegar,  are  wholesome. 
OUR  SISTER'S  RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. — Mix  i  quart  of  fresh  rasp- 
berries with  i  quart  of  vinegar,  put  in  the  fruit  for  3  mornings ;  strain 
it  before  adding  the  fresh  ones.  The  fourth  day  press  the  juice  in, 
straining  it,  put  1-2  Ib.  of  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice  and  stir  it  well 
till  dissolved.  Put  it  into  pint  bottles  and  cork  tight.  This  is  a  fine 
beverage  with  cool  ice  water  in  summer,  and  very  grateful  to  the 
sick  • 

CELERY  VINEGAR. — Pound  1-2  pint  of  celery  seeds  and  mix  them 
in  a  quart  of  cider  vinegar  with  a  few  mustard  seeds  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar.  Shake  it  often  and  strain  it  off  in  20  days  for  use. 
This  is  healthy  and  decidedly  agreeable. 

TOMATO  VINEGAR. — Take  as  many  tomatoes  as  you  may  design 
to  use  and  quarter  them,  leaving  the  bottoms  undivided ;  rub  enough 
salt  over  them  to  taste,  then  put  them  in  a  wide-mouthed  jar  in  a 
cool  oven  or  stove,  or  by  the  side  of  a  warm  fire-place  for  48  hours, 
then  add  i  or  2  bruised  cloves  of  garlic.  Some  cloves,  mace  and 
nutmeg,  all  beaten  ;  1-2  pint  of  white  mustard  seeds  pounded  in  a 
mortar  and  pour  over  all  the  amount  of  vinegar  desired  ;  let  it  be 
boiling.  Tie  a  bladder  over  the  mouth  of  the  jar  and  let  it  remain 
6  or  7  days  by  the  fire.  Should  be  shaken  well  every  day.  Strain 
the  liquor  without  pressing  it,  let  it  stand  until  quite  clear,  then  bot- 
tle it  tightly,  and  use  the  sediment  for  the  present.  The  juice  is  a 
sub-acid,  and  is  a  great  improvement  to  dishes. 

WATERMELON  VINEGAR. — Take  all  the  internal  portion  of  the 
melon  and  scrape  the  rind  to  obtain  all  the  juice ;  then  carefully 
strain  and  pour  into  jugs  with  small  glass  bottles  in  their  mouths ; 
set  the  jugs  in  the  sun,  and  in  time  you  will  have  a  fine-flavored, 
clear,  strong  white  vinegar.  The  vinegar  at  a  certain  stage  will  be 
very  bitter,  but  when  perfected,  loses  this,  and  acquires  a  true  vine- 
gar taste. 

To  STRENGTHEN  VINEGAR. — Expose  a  vessel  of  vinegar  to  the  cold 
of  a  very  frosty  night ;  next  morning  ice  will  be  found  in  it,  which, 
if  thawed,  will  become  pure  water.  The  vinegar  being  freed  from 


488  VINEGARS. 

so  much  water,  will  consequently  be  more  acid  than  before,  and  the 
vinegar  may  thus  be  frozen  again  and  again,  until  it  becomes  of  the 
desired  strength. 

DR.  NIE'S  VINEGAR. — Add  to  each  gallon  of  syrup  composed  of 
i  1-2  pounds  of  sugar  to  i  gallon  of  water,  i  gill  of  yeast.  Keep 
in  a  warm  place  3  or  4  days,  then  draw  in  refining  casks  ;  allow  to 
each  gallon  i  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar.  When  the  sweet  taste  dis- 
appears draw  off  and  bottle  tightly. 

LEMON  VINEGAR. — Allow  5  quarts  of  vinegar  to  3  dozen  large 
lemons,  5  ounces  of  garlic,  a  teacupful  of  horseradish,  i  spoonful 
heaped  of  mace,  i  dessert  spoonful  of  cloves,  1-2  tablespoonful  ot 
pounded  red  pepper,  i  large  coffee-cupful  of  white  mustard  beaten 
in  a  mortar,  or  the  whole  seeds  ;  then  with  a  piece  of  glass  or  grater 
rasp  off  the  rinds  of  the  lemons,  then  nearly  cut  the  lemons  in  two 
with  a  sharp  knife,  then  press  the  salt  into  them  with  your  fingers, 
then  lay  them  on  a  pewter  dish  and  cake  the  salt  over  them,  then 
set  them  in  a  luke-warm  oven,  taking  them  out  several  times  until 
the  moisture  is  dried  up  into  the  peels  and  the  fruit  hard,  but  not 
scorched  ;  then  add  the  garlic  peeled  and  the  horseradish  cut  small 
and  thin,  and  let  them  remain  in  the  above  till  all  the  juice  is  dried 
up.  As  soon  as  the  salt  is  melted  add  more,  and  press  it  in ;  then 
into  a  porcelain  or  copper  kettle  pour  the  vinegar  with  the  pounded 
spices  and  the  nutmegs,  a  large  spoonful  heaped,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  add  the  beaten  mustard  and  pepper  in  muslin  bags.  When 
these  have  boiled  together  in  the  vinegar  sufficiently,  pour  vinegar 
and  all  the  ingredients  boiling  hot  over  the  lemons,  cover  the  vessel 
perfectly  close,  shake  it  well  every  day,  and  let  it  remain  by  the  stove 
or  fire  for  a  full  week;  then  keeping  as  close  as  possible,  let  it  stand 
for  several  months  to  take  off  the  bitter,  then  bottle  it ;  but  before 
doing  so,  it  must  be  strained  through  muslin  or  paper  pulp  two  or 
three  times.  When  freed  from  sediment  entirely,  add  31-2  pints  of 
vinegar  boiling  hot  to  the  remaining  ingredients.  When  it  becomes 
a  month  or  two  old  it  is  nice  for  hash,  fricasses,  &c.  It  is  nice 
to  eat  with  fish,  fowl,  game  or  any  fresh  meat. 

HONEY  VINEGAR. — Put  i  quart  of  clear  honey  in  2  gallons  of 
soft  or  filtered  water;  let  it  stand  for  20  days  in  a  warm  place, 
and  the  vinegar  will  be  good. 

CAYENNE  VINEGAR. — Put  1-2  pint  of  spirits  or  i  pint  of  cider 
vinegar  into  a  bottle  with  1-2  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  let 
it  steep  for  a  month ;  then  strain  off  and  bottle  for  use.  Used 
sparingly,  it  is  excellent  seasoning  for  soups,  sauces  and  cold 
meats. 

CHILI  VINEGAR — Pound  or  halve  50  red  California  Chilies  and 
infuse  them  in  a  pint  of  strong  cider  vinegar  for  a  fortnight. 


VINEGARS. 


They  will  then  be  ready  for  use.  It  is  an  agreeable  relish  to  fish, 
with  a  little  melted  butter,  as  many  cannot  eat  them  without  vinegar 
and  cayenne  pepper. 

GOOSEBERRY  VINEGAR.— Mash  a  peck  of  fully  ripe  gooseberries 
in  a  vessel  with  a  mallet,  then  put  in  6  gallons  of  milk-warm  water, 
and  let  it  stand  for  a  night  and  day ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve 
and  put  in  22  pounds  of  sugar  and  mix  it  well;  put  it  in  a  g-gallon 
cask,  which,  if  not  full,  add  more  water.  Let  the  mixture  be  stirred 
from  the  bottom  2  or  3  times  a  day. 

To  PRESERVE  SPICED  VINEGAR  FOR  PICKLES. — Take  3  or  4  small 
bowls  of  long  pepper,  4  ounces  ot  black  pepper,  3  ounces  of  white 
pepper,  4  ounces  of  allspice,  4  ounces  of  ginger,  4  ounces  of  cloves, 
4  ounces  of  mace,  4  ounces  of  garlic,  4  ounces  of  mustard,  6  ozs. 
of  horseradish  (either  cut  in  pieces  or  rasped),  4  ounces  of  shalots, 
and  3  ounces  of  capsicums;  put  them  into  a  stone  jar  (either 
new  or  one  used  for  pickling)  with  a  quart  of  the  strongest  cider  or 
perry  vinegar;  stop  the  jar  closely  with  a  bung,  cover  that  with  a 
bladder  soaked  with  the  liquor,  set  it  on  a  trivit  by  the  side  of  a  fire 
3  or  4  days,  shaking  it  well  3  or  4  times  a  day.  By  pounding  the 
spices  half  the  quantity  is  enough,  unless  the  quantity  of  the  fruit  be 
doubled  ;  the  jar  being  well  closed  and  the  infusion  being  made  with 
a  mild  heat  or  set  in  the  hot  sun  for  4  or  5  days ;  and  here  is  no  loss 
by  evaporation.  If  several  kinds  of  pickle  are  to  be  prepared,  to 
all  of  which  the  above  spices  are  suitable,  a  larger  quantity  may  be 
prepared  at  once  and  used  as  occasion  requires. 

SPICE  VINEGAR. — To  15  gals,  of  wine  put  4  heaping  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cinnamon,  8  tablespoonfuls  of  black  peppercorns,  4  nutmegs, 
crushed  to  powder ;  when  all  these  are  ready,  put  them  into  a  bag 
and  boil  them  2  or  3  times  in  12  pints  of  cider  vinegar,  then  boil  the 
same  quantity  of  choice  wine,  then  half  fill  a  barrel,  which  may  grad- 
ually be  filled  up  with  a  little  wine,  a  little  sour  if  convenient ;  stop 
it  and  let  the  wine  make. 

ON  SOUTHERN  PLANTATIONS,  to  promote  the  health  of  the  slaves, 
each  used  for  his  dinner  a  portion  of  pure  cider  vinegar,  and  not  that 
which  was  patented.  Undertakers  on  railroads  find  that  the  use  of 
pure  apple  vinegar  with  water,  as  a  beverage,  daily,  and  with  their 
food,  promotes  health  by  keeping  off  summer  diseases  and  malarious 
influences. 

AN  EXCELLENT  HOME  VINEGAR  can  be  made  by  simply  putting 
the  peelings  and  cores  of  fruit  in  a  vessel,  standing  in  a  warm  place, 
when  ever  you  have  them,  or  cutting  up  small  ripe  apples  which  are 
too  small  to  be  used  otherwise,  and  add  them.  The  vinegar  will  be 
good  without  costing  a  cent.  A  small  portion  of  water  should  be 
added  to  increase  fermentation. 


490  PICKLES. 

COLD  WATER  VINEGAR. — To  6  gallons  of  rain  or  soft  water  add  i 
gallon  of  molasses,  1-2  gallon  hop  yeast;  set  the  cask  in  a  warm 
place  and  stir  it  thoroughly  once  a  week  for  several  weeks,  when  you 
will  have  an  excellent  vinegar.  Paste  or  nail  a  piece  of  thin  cloth 
over  the  bung  hole  to  keep  out  the  insects  and  dust. 

VINEGAR. — Hippocrates  employed  vinegar  medicinally,  and  Moses 
mentions  it  nearly  1500  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ.  The  Israel- 
ites, Greeks,  Romans  and  Carthegenians  used  it  extensively. 

PERRY  VINEGAR. — Put  a  number  of  pears,  say  30  or  40  Ibs.  in  a 
tub,  pour  water  over  them  and  leave  them  for  3  days  to  ferment. 
Repeat  this  every  day  for  a  month,  when  you  will  have  good  vinegar, 
pour  off  into  a  cask.  Apples  may  be  done  so  also. 

PERRY  OR  PEAR  VINEGAR  is  prepared  from  the  pear  in  the  same 
way  that  vinegar  is  prepared  from  apple  cider,  but  it  is  far  richer  and 
much  better  for  keeping  green  pickles  and  mangoes,  giving  them  a 
mellow  and  crisp  taste ;  and  mixing  apple  cider  with  an  equal  por- 
tion of  perry,  makes  a  cordial,  equal  to  the  most  delicious  wine. 

GENERAL  REMARKS  ON  PICKLES. 

Large  stone  jars  are  the  proper  vessels  for  large  pickles.  Glass 
bottles  with  wide  mouths  do  for  small  pickles,  such  as  cherries, 
currants,  nasturtiums,  button  onions,  &c.  Salt  and  vinegar  which 
enter  so  largely  into  the  composition  of  all  pickles,  act  on  the  lead 
that  is  used  in  turning  copper  pans  and  dissolve  the  lead  used  in 
glazing  earthern  jars,  and  ought  to  be  avoided.  A  bell  metal 
skillet  or  kettle  is  good  for  holding  vinegar,  but  a  stone  jar  on  a  hot 
hearth,  is  best.  As  jars  of  pickles  are  frequently  opened,  and  as  the 
air  is  always  injurious  to  vinegar,  which  is  apt  to  lose  its  strength  by 
exposure,  and  become  torpid,  so  small  jars  of  a  quart  or  half  gallon 
are  preferable  to  large  ones.  Some  housekeepers,  put  each  kind 
of  pickle  in  one  large  jar,  and  fill  up  the  smaller  ones  from  it  as 
needed  for  present  use.  Each  jar  should  be  covered  with  leather  or 
a  bladder  tied  firmly  over  the  mouth  and  kept  perfectly  dry. 
Each  jar  should  be  labeled  so  that  the  housekeeper  can  see  at 
once  what  it  contains  without  being  needlessly  opened,  and  those 
that  are  for  present  use  should  be  put  by  themselves. 

The  pickles  should  be  taken  out  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  fork,  and 
should  hang  over  the  pickle  jars,  as  spoons  of  metal  injures  the 
vinegar,  or  an  earthern  bowl  with  a  stout  handle  is  very  good.  No 
more  should  be  taken  out  than  is  likely  to  be  eaten.  If  left,  it  is  best 
not  to  return  it  to  the  jar.  Cover  up  and  keep  it  for  the  next  meal. 

Pickles  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  and  dry  place,  but  sunned 
occasionally.  Vegetables  intended  for  pickling  should  not  be  too 


PICKLES . 


491 

ripe,  but  sound  and  firm  and  gather  very  early  in  the  morning,  and 
on  a  dry  day,  guarding  against  letting  them  fall  or  getting  bruised  in 
any  way.  Gather  them  with  the  stem,  else  the  juice  will  exude 
and  the  article  wither.  They  should  be  carefully  culled  and  wiped 
with  a  dry  cloth,  very  clean  and  soft.  Do  not  wash  them  unles  they 
are  to  be  scalded  or  steeped  before  pickling,  and  even  this  is  better 
to  be  let  alone,  for  the  pickles  are  observed  to  spoil  the  sooner  by 
it.  The  purest,  best,  and  strongest  vinegar,  whether  wine  or 
cider,  should  be  used  and  full  quantity  to  more  than  cover  the  whole 
contents  of  the  jar. 

Let  your  articles  used  in  pickling  be  done  sufficiently  to  be  tender 
and  wholesome,  and  not  lose  their  crispness  and  brittleness.  Let 
them  be  just  done  through,  let  it  be  by  simmering,  pouring,  or  boil- 
ing the  vinegar,  or  in  whatever  way  managed.  In  obtaining  a  good 
color  health  is  often  left  out  of  the  question  or  sacrificed  to  please 
the  eye.  The  beautiful  green,  so  brilliant  and  so  much  admired  in 
pickles,  is  produced  artificially  by  verdigris,  formed  by  boiling 
them  in  brass,  or  untinned  copper  kettles,  or  by  adding  pieces  of 
brass  or  copper  to  the  boiling  vinegar,  though  as  often  detected 
as  denied.  This  green  color  is  poisonous  and  permeates  the  whole 
fruit.  A  good  green  color  may  be  obtained  by  placing  vine  or 
cabbage  leaves  several  thicknesses  over  boiling  vinegar  while  scald- 
ing the  fruit;  it  is  green  enough.  A  small  portion  of  potash  will 
promote  the  much  admired  color,  while  it  weakens  or  destroys 
the  acid  of  the  vinegar.  The  fruit  may  be  scalded  in  alum  water, 
after  being  taken  from  the  vine,  before  putting  them  in  scalding 
vinegar,  then  soak  them  in  clear  water  for  a  few  hours;  it  toughens 
and  makes  them  more  crisp,  then  scald  them  in  strong  cider 
or  other  vinegar,  before  putting  them  in  the  spiced  liquor.  If  a  red 
color  is  desired  put  in  a  few  grains  of  cochineal.  Vinegar  may  be 
allowed  to  simmer  but  never  to  boil,  as  in  boiling  a  large  per  cent, 
of  the  fomented  liquors  escapes.  Cold  vinegar  becomes  thick  or 
ropy  it  added  to  fruit  which  requires  boiling  or  more  spices.  But 
radish  pods  (which  should  be  very  young)  and  nasturtiums,  onions, 
young  pods  of  green  pepper  and  similar  articles  being  of  a  pungent 
nature,  require  no  spices  nor  boiling,  but  may  be  gathered  and 
put  in  cold  vinegar  until  the  jar  is  full,  when  it  should  be  closed 
tightly. 

Spices  seem  to  mellow  and  conteract,  and  refine  the  sharpness  or 
acidity  of  pickles.  But  they  should  be  selected  and  used  to  suit 
the  quality  of  flavor  of  the  vegetable  which  is  to  be  pickled.  Such 
as  cauliflower,  cucumbers,  indian  pickle,  cabbage,  &c.,  requires  a 
good  portion  of  spice.  But  if  the  spices  are  cooked  in  a  vessel, 
and  steeped  in  the  best  cider,  wine,  or  pure  vinegar  on  a  hot 
hearth,  a  small  quantity  will  do. 


492  GARDENING. 

If  pickles  are  required  at  a  short  notice,  they  should  be  parboiled 
in  a  very  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water,  but  the  color  is  not  good, 
and  the  brittleness  is  injured.  It  is  an  easy  way,  more  wholesome, 
and  by  many  esteemed  the  most  profitable. 

Garlic,  in  any  quantity  that  you  may  desire,  may  be  peeled, 
sliced,  and  laid  in  brine  for  three  days,  of  salt  and  water,  then  put  in 
the  sun  to  dry  to  be  ready  when  wanted.  Long  peppers  may  be 
prepared  in  the  same  way. 

GAEDENING. 

THE  LENGTH  OF  TIME,  WHICH  GARDEN  SEEDS  RETAIN  THEIR  VI- 
TALITY.— Parsnips,  rhubarb,  or  any  thin,  scaly  seeds — i  year.  Bal, 
basil,  beans,  codroons,  carrot,  cress,  Indian  cress,  lavender,  leeks, 
okra,  onions,  peas,  pepper,  rampion,  sage,  salsify,  savoy,  scerzancra, 
thyme,  tomato,  wormwood,  and  small  herbs — 2  years.  Artichokes, 
asparagus,  corn,  salad,  eggplant,  endive,  Indian  corn,  lettuce,  mari- 
gold, marjoram,  mustard,  parsley  rosemary,  spinach,  tansy,  borage, 
borecole,  Brussel  sprouts,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  radish,  sea  kale,  tar- 
ragan,  turnip — 3  years.  Beet,  celery,  cherville,  cucumber,  dill,  fen- 
nel, hyssop,  melon,  pumpkin,  sorrel,  squash — 5,  8  or  10  years. 

THE  best  evergreen  hedge  plant  for  protecting  grapes  and  dwarf 
pear  trees,  is  the  American  arbor  vitae. 

A  TIMELY  HINT. — In  transplanting  tomato,  cabbage  and  tobacco 
plants,  prepare  a  vessel  of  manure  water  and  thicken  to  the  stiffness 
of  mush  by  stirring  in  rich  garden  mould;  dip  the  root  of  the  plant 
in  this  paste  before  setting  it  in  the  ground,  press  the  earth  firmly 
round  the  root  and  sprinkle  with  manure  water. 

CLAY  SOILS  need  lime,  ashes  and  light  composts,  such  as  contain 
straw  and  partially  decayed  cornstalks.  Black,  moist  soils  being 
cultivated,  are  generally  exhausted  of  lime  and  silex.  They  need 
composts,  containing  sand  and  lime  in  the  form  of  plaster,  slaked 
lime  or  super  phosphate.  Light  sandy  soils  need  well  worked  com- 
posts containing  a  large  share  of  muck  and  manure.  .It  should  cover 
the  ground  4  inches  deep. 

PRUNING  A  SUCKER  TOMATO. — Pinching  out  the  shoots,  except 
the  4  main  branches,  will  improve  the  size  and  increase  the  number 
of  the  fruit.  These  main  branches  had  better  be  fastened  to  stakes, 
or  laid  on  the  ground. 

THE  ELDER  BUSH  or  leaves,  if  scattered  on  cabbage,  cucumber,  or 
any  vines,  vegetables,  or  fruit  trees,  will  cause  the  insects  to  leave 
and  will  drive  off  the  potato  bug  also. 

DILL  AMONG  CABBAGE. — It  is  said,  that  dill,  if  planted  among  cab- 
bages, will  drive  away  insects  and  worms  that  are  destructive  to 
them. 


GARDENING.  493 

To  GUARD  CABBAGES  FROM  DEPREDATIONS  OF  THE  CATERPILLAR. 
Sow  with  hemp  all  the  borders  of  the  ground  wherein  the  cabbages 
are  planted,  and  although  the  neighborhood  be  infested  with  cater- 
pillers,  the  space  inclosed  with  hemp  will  be  perfectly  free  and  not 
one  of  them  will  approach  it. 

PRESERVATION  OF  CABBAGES.  —  Cut  them  so  that  they  may 
have  about  2  inches  of  stem  left  below  the  leaves ;  scoop  out  the 
pith  as  far  down  as  a  small  knife  will  reach,  then  suspend  it  by  means 
of  a  cord,  exactly  perpendicular,  but  in  an  inverted  position  and  dai- 
ly fill  up  the  hollow  part  of  the  stem  with  clean  cold  water.  It  is 
stated  that  by  this  method,  cabbages,  cauliflowers,  brocoli,  celery,  etc. 
may  be  preserved. 

RHUBARB  prefers  a  light,  rich  soil.  The  ground  should  be  heavily 
manured  every  year.  It  may  be  forced,  and  that  which  grows  in 
pots  is  more  delicate  than  that  grown  in  the  air,  if  forced  in  winter 
and  spring.  It  is  one  of  the  best  and  most  certain  apperients  in  in- 
fancy, constipation  and  summer  complaints  from  its  astringency, 
for  it  is  both  a  tonic  and  astringent,  so  good  in  infantile  diseases 
attended  with  imperfect  digestion  and  irritations  of  the  intestinal 
canal. 

CALINAC. — This  valuable  vegetable  is  yet  but  little  cultivated  by 
our  gardeners.  They,  when  the  roots  are  boiled  tender,  are  a  great 
improvement  to  soups,  meat-pies  and  skewered  meats,  or  the  roots 
are  scraped,  cut  in  slices  and  boiled  soft,  in  milk  with  a  little  salt  and 
serve  hot  in  butter. 

OSAGE  ORANGE  SEED. — Sow  them  in  drills  and  cover  2  inches 
deep  in  the  fall  season. 

OXALIC  ACID  AND  SEED. — Soak  them  in  a  solution  of  oxalic  acid 
for  a  day  or  two,  till  they  commence  to  sprout,  then  take  them  out 
and  plant  them.  It  is  said  that  by  this  process  seeds  40  years  old 
have  been  known  to  germinate. 

ROSES  FROM  SEED. — To  raise  roses  from  seed,  take  the  seed  when 
fully  ripe,  separate  them  from  the  pulp,  mix  them  with  moist  sand 
and  put  them  in  a  little  box  or  flower  pot ;  then  put  them  in  the  cel- 
lar, taking  care  that  they  are  kept  moist  all  winter  and  from  freezing. 
In  the  spring  sow  sand  and  all  in  a  common  hot  bed,  and  when  the 
plants  are  about  an  inch  high,  transplant  then  till  well  rooted. 

FARMING  OR  GARDEN  TOOLS,  when  not  in  use,  should  be  thorough- 
ly wiped  and  then  oileid  or  greased  with  anyting  that  contains  no 
salt. 

How  THE  SANDWICH  ISLANDERS  GROW  WATERMELONS. — They 
plant  them  in  the  sand.  Whether  they  come  in  contact  with  a  sub- 
soil and  draw  nourishment  from  it,  I  do  not  know,  but  the  melon 
grows  large,  and  is  very  delicious,  in  its  sandy  bed, 


494  GARDENING. 

FENNEL. — The  root  of  the  large  fennel  is  eaten,  when  blanched, 
like  celery  or  seakale  when  stewed. 

ARTICHOKE  —  Sow  in  drills  2  inches  in  depth.  Thin  out  the 
plants.  When  they  are  large  enough,  they  can  be  reset  in  rich  beds 
m  drills,  3  feet  apart  each  way ;  the  soil  should  be  free  from  frost, 
and  in  cold  latitudes  covered  in  winter.  Jerusalem  artichoke  in  the 
same  way.  The  common  artichoke  may  be  planted  and  cultivated  as 
the  Irish  potato. 

ASPARAGUS. — Large. — Any  time  during  the  fall  or  winter,  sow  in 
drills,  8  or  10  inches  apart,  then  cover  up  with  pulverized  soil  about 
i  inch.  For  one  year  keep  the  rows  free  from  grass  and  weeds. 
Then  prepare  a  permanent  bed  for  the  young  plants  by  digging 
trenches  18  inches  apart  and  10  feet  deep,  then  half  fill  them  with 
manure;  on  this,  place  the  roots  i  1-2  feet  apart.  Gradually  draw 
the  soil  up  to  them,  as  the  plants  begin  to  grow,  until  the  bed  be- 
comes even.  The  roots  are  now  deep  enough  to  cultivate  over  them, 
which  should  be  done  a  month  before  the  young  plants  appear.  I 
remember  that  in  some  ranches  about  this  time,  the  beds  were  turn- 
ed over,  the  tops  lightly  turned  up,  and  upon  this  were  sown  cab- 
bage and  lettuce  seeds.  The  asparagus  grew  in  abundance,  while 
there  were  enough  cabbage  plants  to  furnish  the  family  garden,  and 
lettuce  of  the  best  order  for  the  table.  Salt,  in  a  small  portion,  is  an 
excellent  addition  to  the  soil  of  an  asparagus  bed. 

RUNNING  BEANS. — Haricot. — Large  white  Lima,  Dutch  case  knife, 
red  or  horticultural  cranberry,  scarlet  runner,  French  saisson  (large), 
German  wax  (black)".  These  may  best  be  planted  in  hills,  2  inches 
deep  and  3  feet  apart,  or  in  drills  i  1-2  feet  apart;  beans  will  not 
stand  the  frost.  As  soon  as  they  show  signs  of  running,  they  should 
be  stuck  with  a  pole  or  common  brush  wood,  either  green  or  dry. 

DWARF  OR  SNAP  BEANS. — Haricot. — Brush  cranberry,  Chili  bayos, 
early  yellow  six  weeks,  early  turtlesoup,  early  China  (snaps),  early 
snap  short,  early  marrowfat  (white),  English  broad  Windsor,  Prussian 
bean,  early  valentine,  early  Mohawk,  early  horticultural,  German 
wax,  butter,  sword  long  pod,  bush  cranberry,  royal  dwarf  or  large 
white  kidney,  French  snaps,  white  and  small,  fountain,  very  fine 
snaps  ;  flagalet ;  these  should  be  planted  in  hills  3  feet  apart,  or  in 
drills,  thinned  until  they  stand  a  foot  apart,  two  feet  between  each 
drill. 

BEETS. — Early  blood  turnip,  white  turnip,  yellow  turnip,  extra  early 
turnip,  long  white,  long  blood,  or  pink  or  yellow,  long  smooth  blood, 
white,  deep  red,  white  true  French  sugar  beet  for  making  sugar, 
white  Siberian  sugar  beet,  long  red  mangel  wurtzel,  red  globe  mangel 
wurtzel,  yellow  globe  mangel  wurtzel,long  white  mangel  wurtzel,  long 
yellow  mangel  wurtzel.  Prepare  your  drills  i  i-a  feet  apart  and  sow 


GARDENING*  495 

l  inch  deep.  The  plants  should  be  thinned  out  as  they  grow,  leav- 
ing 1-2  toot  between  each  plant. 

BROCOLI. — Early  purple,  cape,  early  purple,  white  cape  or  cauli- 
flower, early  white.  Used  and  cultivated  as  the  cauliflower,  which 
it  resembles  in  habit  and  growth,  only  the  heads  are  not  so  firm. 

BRUSSEL  OR  CABBAGE  SPROUTS. —Cultivate  as  the  cabbage,  to  which 
family  it  belongs,  producing  numerous  small  heads  on  the  stem  ;  the 
top  one,  cabbage  like,  in  cold  climates  becomes  tender  when  touch- 
ed by  the  frost.  Borecole,  green  curled  dwarf,  or  german  green. 

CABBAGE. — Early  York,  early  large  York,  early  Dutch,  fine ;  early 
Battesea,  early  Winningstadt,  fine,  very  hard;  early  sugarloaf, 
early  green  globe  Savoy,  early  ox-heart,  very  fine;  large 
ox-head,  true  French ;  large  late  bergen,  early  savoy,  extra  fine  late 
drum-head  savoy,  fine  American,  premium  flat  Dutch,  largest 
Schweinfurt,  Dwarf  or  large  red  Dutch  for  pickling,  late  Brunswick, 
quintal  or  hundred  pounds,  marblehead,  cavalier,  for  stock.  The 
drills  in  which  cabbage  is  sown,  should  be  4  inches  apart.  When 
the  plants  are  6  or  7  inches  high,  the  early  kinds  should  be  trans- 
planted in  rows  2  feet  apart,  and  the  plants  i  1-2  feet  from  each  oth- 
er. Late  kinds  had  better  be  planted  in  rows  3  feet  apart,  and  the 
plants  2  feet  from  each  other.  The  ground  should  be  deeply  dug 
after  being  lightly  manured,  and  the  plants  hoed  often. 

CARROT. — Long  purple,  long  orange,  long  streaked,  long  red,  half 
long  scarlet  point,  half  long  red,  large  white  Belgium,  early  horn, 
large  Altringhain.  Sow  3-4  of  an  inch  deep  in  rows  i  1-2  inch 
deep,  till  deeply  in  a  rich  sandy  soil.  Thin  the  plants  according  to 
the  desired  size  of  the  carrot. 

LARGE  CALIFORNIA  WOLCHEREN. —  Large  late  London,  large 
Asiatic,  real ;  Lenormond,  straight  stems,  fine  large  heads.  Cultivate 
in  the  same  manner  as  cabbage. 

CELERY. —  Celery  seed  for  flavoring  soup, "red  solid,  celeriac 
or  turnip  rooted,  giant,  white  solid  American.  Sow  like  cabbage. 
When  the  plants  are  4,  6  or  8  inches  high,  then  make  ready  trenches 
i  foot  deep  and  4  feet  apart,  as  for  asparagus,  half  fill  the  trenches 
with  rich  compost,  then  set  the  plants  6  inches  apart.  To  bleach 
their  stems,  as  the  plants  grow,  draw  up  the  soil  around  them. 

CORN  FOR  GARDEN  CULTURE. — Large  eight  rowed  sugar,  early 
King  Philip,  Stowell's  evergreen  sugar,  large  sweet  or  sugar,  Dor- 
ling's  extra  early  sugar,  early  dwarf  sugar,  pop-corn.  Plant  4  or  5 
in  a  hill  4  feet  apart  each  way,  thin  to  one  or  two  stalks  in  a  hill ; 
hoe  often. 

CORN  SALAD. — Sow  in  drills  i  inch  deep  and  6  inches  apart. 

ASPARAGUS  BEAN  OR  DALOCHOS. — These  beans  grow  a  yard  long, 
and  may  be  planted  in  drills  stuck  with  poles  for  them  to  grow  up- 
on, as  pole  beans,  and  cultivated  like  them.  A  good  vegetable. 


496  GARDENING. 

DANDELION *LEAVES. —  A  fine  spring  salad,  or  dressed  when  tender 
like  salad. 

EGG  PLANT. — Large  oval  purple,  improved  New  York  purple,  early 
long  purple,  scarlet  China  (beautiful),  white,  for  ornament ;  round 
purple,  striped  ornamental,  long  white  ornamental,  long  white  Chi- 
na. Sow  in  beds,  boxes  or  drills  as  cabbage.  Transplant  in  good 
soil,  in  hills  or  drills,  2  1-2  feet  apart  each  way.  The  fruit  may  be 
cooked  like  the  tomato,  boiled,  fried  or  stewed  in  sauces. 

ENDIVE. — Broad  leafed,  green  curled,  summer,  white  curled,  wild 
or  chicory,  coffee  chicory.  Sow  and  thin  as  lettuce,  8  inches  apart. 
Endive  and  chicory  are  the  same. 

GARLIC. — In  rows  i  foot  apart,  set  the  plants  6  inches  apart ;  let 
the  soil  be  light.  Take  up  the  roots  when  the  leaves  turn  yellow. 

KALE. — Green  curled  Scotch,  sea  kale,  blue  kale,  double  kale, 
Siberian  or  German  greens.  Cultivate  as  cabbage  ;  when  young  or 
touched  by  frost,  they  become  very  tender  when  used  as  greens,  and 
are  an  excellent  spring  salad. 

TURNIP  ROOTED  CABBAGE. — Long  white  or  green,  early  white 
Vienna,  above  ground.  As  it  is  difficult  to  transplant,  sow  in  rows 
where  it  is  to  stand,  about  i  1-2  feet  apart,  and  8  inches  apart  in  the 
drills. 

LEEK. — Large  thick  winter,  best  flag,  long  summer.  Sow  in  drills 
i  foot  apart  and  i  inch  deep.  Transplant  when  6  inches  high,  in 
rows  10  inches  apart  each  way,  deep  as  possible,  that  the  neck  may 
be  blanched  by  being  covered. 

LETTUCE. — Royal  summer  white  cabbage  head,  large  white  cab- 
bage, green  Paris  coss,  white  Paris  coss,  early  curled  Siberia,  ice 
drum  head,  very  fine;  butter  or  Turkish  head  cabbage,  India  head, 
brown  Dutch  Princess  head,  Berlin  King's  head,  large  Roman,  stone 
head,  curled  Simpson,  sugar  of  Paris,  and  many  other  varieties. 
Sow  in  succession,  i  inch  deep ;  when  young,  transplant  8  inches 
apart,  in  very  rich  soil.  By  thus  sowing  you  can  have  the  vegetable 
all  the  year.  Hog  or  chicken  guano  is  the  best  for  the  purpose. 

MUSH  MELON. — Pine  apple,  nutmeg,  fine,  green  citron,  large  yel- 
low, cantaloupe,  large  Persian,  fine;  green  flesh  cantaloupe,  the 
best;  Skillman's  fine  netted,  rock  mush  melon,  Chinese,  very  good, 
and  many  others.  Plant  in  hills  4  feet  apart,  (each  having  2  shovels 
of  manure),  each  way,  and  cultivate  thoroughly  and  carefully.  The 
plant  thrives  best  in  warm,  mellow,  rich,  sandy  loam,  in  a  sheltered 
exposure. 

CUCUMBERS. — Early  white  spined,  best  for  all  purposes ;  early 
green  cluster,  early,  short  green  for  pickling,  early  Russian,  long 
Turkey,  extra  long  green,  small  gherkins,  Man  of  Kent,  martynice 
for  pickles.  Plant  in  very  rich  soil  in  hills  4  feet  apart  each  way,  and 


GARDENING. 


497 


• 

2  shovelfuls  of  manure  in  each  hill ;  an  inch  deep;  thin  to  4  in  a  hill 
and  keep  the  plant  free  from  insects.  The  Chinese  stick  them  with 
long  bamboo  rods,  and  water  the  roots  daily.  They  grow  long, 
straight  and  beautiful. 

TURNIPS.— Large  white,  Norfolk,  early  Dutch,  early  white  flat, 
English  green  globe,  red  top  strap  leaf,  early  white  strap  leaf,  white 
globe,  early  6  weeks,  white  French,  German  fellow,  yellow  Aberdeen, 
snow  ball,  long  white  tankard,  white  rutabaga,  early  white  stone, 
yellow  long  stone,  yellow  Swedish  rutabaga,  Chinese  yellow  and 
white.  Prepare  a  bed  of  rich  soil,  and  sow  in  the  bed  the  seeds, 
mixed  with  dry  dirt,  sand  or  ashes;  or  1-2  inch  deep  in  drills  18 
inches  apart.  Thin  the  plants  to  5  or  6  inches  in  the  row.  Ruta- 
bagas 10  inches  apart  in  the  row;  when  sown  in  beds,  are  never 
worked. 

WATERMELONS.— Jackson,  Washington,  Winston,  Ice  Cream  or 
Mountain  Sweet,  York  River,  Long  Island  common,  Black  Spanish, 
Shanghai,  Orange,  fine  ;  Louisiana,  Mississippi,  Alabama,  Tennes- 
see, Georgia,  Florida,  Carolina,  melons,  striped  Gipsey  for  orna- 
ment, Citron  for  preserves— an  endless  variety.  Plant  the  seed  in 
hills,  6  feet  apart  each  way.  The  hills  should  be  dug  2  feet  deep 
and  filled  with  manure,  mixed  with  1-4  soil.  I  have  seen  them 
so  large  that  one  man  could  scarcely  lift  them ;  had  to  be  hand- 
led in  tubs  or  baskets. 

MUSHROOM  SPAWN. — Make  a  bed  of  warm  manure  about  one 
foot  deep  and  covered  with  fine  soil  about  2  inches  deep ;  through 
this  spread  the  spawn.  It  does  best  under  cover. 

MUSTARD.— White  London,  brown,  black.  Sow  in  drills  i  foot 
apart  and  cover  1-2  inch  deep. 

NASTURTIUM.— Tall  and  dwarf.— In  drills  i  inch  deep ;  a  beau- 
tiful garnish  and  relish  for  cold  meats. 

OKRA  OR  GUMBO. — Long  green,  improved  dwarf  green.  Sow 
in  rows  three  or  four  feet  apart,  if  the  soil  is  rich;  thin  the 
plants,  leaving  a  space  of  ten  inches  between  each  in  the  drill. 

ONION. — Yellow  danders,  Bombay  onion,  large  white  Portugal, 
large  red  Wetherfield,  white  Silver  skins,  large  yellow  Dutch,  yellow 
Silver  peel,  vegetable  onions,  Statar  onions,  top  onions.  Onion's 
will  succeed  well  when  cultivated  on  the  same  ground  for  a  number 
of  years,  and  thrive  best  in  strong,  deep,  rich,  loamy  soil.  Set  the 
onions  or  cloves  bulbs  3  or  4  inches  apart ;  when  propagated  from 
seed,  sow  thinly  in  drills  i  foot  apart  and  i  inch  deep.  Thin  to  the 
same  distance  apart  as  the  bulbs.  Do  not  let  the  soil  become  too 
hard  about  the  bulbs,  nor  stir  them  too  deep.  Keep  free  from  weeds. 
Some  cover  them  up  in  beds  in  the  fall  with  straw,  like  Irish  pota- 
toes. 


498  GARDENING. 

PARSLEY. — Extra  curled'and  plain.  As  the  seed  germinate  slowly 
soak  them  in  milk  or  luke-warm  water  before  sowing  them  1-2  inch 
deep  in  drills,  i  foot  apart.  For  family  use  prepare  a  bed  of  rich 
soil  and  sow  the  seed,  and  let  the  plants  remain  for  years  ;  gather 
the  seeds  when  in  perfection.  The  roots  continue  to  germinate  for 
a  series  of  years. 

PARSNIPS. — Long,  smooth  white,  early  round,  Guernsey  or  cup. 
Sow  in  drills  8  inches  apart  and  i  inch  deep.  The  soil  should  be  deep 
and  rich.  When  well  up,  thin  the  plants  to  5  inches  or  more  apart 
in  the  rows. 

PEAS — Early. — Prince  Albert  (early),  Kent,  extra  early  Emperor, 
Daniel  O'Rouke,  Mag,  Double  blossom  frame,  Bishop's  early, Dwarf 
(prolific),  Early  Warwick,  Bishop's  Dwarf  (long  pod,  fine),  (late  or 
general  crop) ;  Lord  Raglan,  Dwarf  Monmoth,  champion  of  Eng- 
land ;  Lincoln,  champion  of  Scotland,  fine ;  Harrison's  Glory, 
Dwarf  marrow  fat,  Blue  Imperial,  Queen  of  Dwarfs,  Prussian  Blue, 
Dwarf  Sugar,  Edible  pods,  Tom  Thumbs,  Harrison's  perfection, 
Tall  Sugar,  Edible  pods,  and  extra  fine ;  Blue  Scimeter,  Grey  Eyes, 
Black  eyes,  Galavance,  Black,  Mountain  Crowder,  a  most  valuable 
pea.  Sow  every  2  or  3  weeks,  or  every  week,  in  any  warm  month  for  a 
succession  of  crops.  A  light,  dry  soil,  not  too  rich,  suits  best.  Sow 
in  rows  from  2  to  4  feet  apart,  according  to  the  variety.  The  pea 
is  a  hardy  plant  and  will  endure  frost  a  little. 

PEPPER. — Sweet  Spanish  for  salad,  large  Squash  for  mangoes, 
Sweet  Mountain  for  the  same  purpose,  Small  Chile,  Large  Bell, 
Cherry,  Oxheart,  Capsicum,  Long  Cayenne,  small,  for  pepper  sauce. 
Sow  in  small  beds;  when  3  or  4  inches  high  transplant  to  18 
inches  apart  each  way,  and  hoe  often  and  with  care ;  do  not  let  the 
frost  bite  them. 

PUMPKIN. — Large  Cheese,  Connecticut  field,  Mammoth  or  South- 
ern pumpkin,  Spotted  rind,  Hard  Shell  or  Potato  pumpkin,  long, 
round,  flat  or  green  pumpkin.  Plant  them  uV  drills  or  hills  8  or  10 
feet  apart  each  way,  according  to  the  richness  of  the  soil.  A  valua- 
ble winter  vegetable. 

POTATO,  IRISH. — Early  Rose,  Utah,  Early  Goodrich,  Nansomend, 
the  Murcer.and  endless  numbers.  Always  plant  in  a  sandy  or  loamy 
soil ;  apply  to  each  hill  a  double  handful  of  plaster  or  ashes  when 
the  plants  appear  above  ground.  Hoe  often.  Keep  free  from  grass 
and  weeds. 

POTATO,  SWEET. — Make  a  hot  bed  to  raise  the  plant  from,  or  plant 
them  with  small  potatoes  in  hills  in  sandy  or  loamy  soil  about  18 
inches  apart ;  do  not  cover  them  very  deep.  In  the  Southern 
States  they  raise  them  in  the  greatest  perfection.  They  set  them 
in  drills,  covering  the  end  of  slips  that  may  be  a  yard  long  be- 


GARDENING.  499 

fore  the  dry  season  sets  in.  They  have  them  the  year  round, 
and  are  as  sweet  as  honey.  The  names  would  be  too  tedious  to 
mention,  as  they  are  so  numerous  as  well  as  the  kinds.  Only  culti- 
vate them  in  California  in  the  manner  of  those  warm  states,  and  they 
will  succeed  as  well  as  there.  Keep  them  free  from  grass  and 
weeds ;  hoe  often. 

RADISH. — Long  scarlet  short  top,  early  deep  scarlet,  olive  shaped 
Chinese  winter,  half  long  scarlet,  the  best;  long  salmon,  black 
Spanish,  white  Spanish,  early  demi  long  rose,  yellow  summer  turnip, 
white  summer  turnip,  early  scarlet  turnip,  rooted  ;  French  break- 
fast. Sow  in  the  best  sandy  loam  in  drills  from  six  to  twelve 
inches  apart,  and  thin  the  plant  three  or  four  inches  apart  in  the 
row,  according  to  the  kind.  Sow  twice  a  month  for  a  succession 
of  crops.  Sand  keeps  the  roots  free  from  the  destroying  worm. 

RHUBARB. — Linneas,  Giant  and  MitchePs  Royal  Albert.  The 
soil  should  be  deep  and  cannot  be  too  rich.  Make  a  bed  and  sow 
the  seed  i  inch  deep  in  drills  18  inches  apart;  when  large  enough 
thin  the  plants  to  8  inches  apart  in  the  row.  After  a  year  dig  trenches 
2  feet  deep  and  manure  plentifully,  then  take  up  the  plants  and  set 
them  in  the  trenches  3  feet  apart  each  way ;  manure  liberally  each 
season. 

SALSIFY  OR  OYSTER  VEGETABLE. — Long  white.  In  hills  i  foot 
apart,  i  inch  deep  ;  thin  to  6  or  8  inches  apart  in  the  row.  The  soil 
should  be  rich  and  light. 

SAGE. — Make  a  bed  and  sow  in  drills  i  foot  apart,  1-2  inch  deep  ; 
thin  the  plant  to  equal  distances  in  each  row. 

SAVORY. — Summer  and  winter.     Cultivate  as  sage. 

SCORZARERA. — Cultivate  in  the  same  way  as  salsify. 

SORREL. — In  drills  8  inches  apart ;  cover  lightly. 

SPINACH. — Large  Flanders,  fine,  round-leafed,  prickly  lettuce- 
leaved.  In  drills  i  inch  apart ;  sow  i  inch  deep ;  sow  frequently 
succession.  The  soil  should  be  rich  and  deep. 

SQUASH. — Early  green,  striped  bush,  early  golden  scollop  bush; 
early  white  scolloped  bush,  summer  crook  neck,  Scotch  bonnet;  win- 
ter crook  neck,  Boston  marrow,  Manmoth  Chili  (200  specimens), 
Hubbard,  vegetable  marrow  ;  bunch  squash  or  cymlings,  Valparaisa. 
Cultivate  in  hills  or  drills  as  melons.  The  bunch  or  bush  varieties  ; 
4  or  6  feet  apart,  and  the  other  er  running  varieties  6  to  8  feet  apart. 

SWEET  MARJORAM. — Cultivate  as  sage.  Thyme  in  the  same 
way. 

TOBACCO. — Hanover,  Virginia,  Maryland,  Kentucky,  Ohio.  The 
The  soil  for  this  "Virginia  weed"  should  be  of  the  best  quality  to 
raise  fine  tobacco.  To  raise  coarse  and  large  plants  the  soil  should 
be  strong,  rich  and  highly  manured.  Plant  in  hills  or  drills  ;  the 


5OO  BEES. 

former  is  the  usual  way.  The  plant  set  in  hills  or  drills  4  feet  apart. 
The  plant  cannot  be  too  assiduously  and  carefully  cultivated.  In 
setting  out  it  is  best  to  plant  two  in  a  hill,  lest  one  should  die.  It 
can  be  uprooted  afterwards.  The  beet  seeds  are  the  Kiblefoot,  the 
white  stem,  long  and  short  Frederic,  Oronoco,  James  river,  &c. 

TOMATO. — Large  red  smooth,  mammoth  red,  large  early  red,  red 
cherry,  large  yellow,  Fiji  island,  yellow  cherry,  yellow  plum,  red 
plum,  trophy,  new  and  fine,  pear-shaped  yellow  and  red,  small 
round  red  or  Brazil,  upright  deloya,  Southern  tomato.  Sow  in  a 
box  in  the  house  or  hot-bed ;  when  the  plants  are  five  or  six  inches 
high,  transplant  them  five  inches  apart  into  boxes,  to  gradually  harden 
them,  before  finally  setting  out;  when  the  weather  is  warm  and  set- 
tled, transplant  them  again  four  feet  each  way,  in  a  light  loamy  soil, 
manured  liberally,  and  cultivate  well  and  with  care.  I  have  culti- 
vated 22  kinds  of  tomatoes  at  one  time.  The  purple  and  large  yel- 
low are  valuable  for  table  use. 

BEES. 

ON  THE  MANAGEMENT  OF  BEES  THAT  REFUSE  TO    SWARM. — If  the 

hive  is  an  old  one,  and  an  early  supply  of  honey  be  desired,  the  best 
plan  to  be  adopted  is  that  of  driving  out  the  greater  portion  of  the 
bees,  and  so  forming  a  new  swarm  artificially ;  if  the  remainder  of 
the  bees  be  driven  out,  three  weeks  afterwards,  the  hive  will  be  found 
perfectly  full  of  honey,  and  there  will  be  found  no  grubs  or  larvae. 
The  bees  driven  out  on  the  second  occasion  can  be  added  to  those 
first  driven  out,  or  to  any  weak  store  that  requires  strengthening. 
We  have  just  performed  this  operation  on  one  of  our  own  hives, 
and  have  taken  upwards  of  60  pounds  of  honey  without  having  to 
destroy  a  single  grub.  There  is  no  doubt  whatever,  that  where  hives 
are  employed  that  do  not  admit  of  being  sapered,  there  is  no  more 
profitable  mode  of  management  than  the  one  above  recommended. 
—The  Field. 

THK  BEE  luxuriates  on  the  bloom  of  clover  fields,  fruit  blossoms, 
buckwheat  flowers,  minicaette,  lemon,  thyme,  bean  flowers,  mign- 
onette, borage,  sage,  mellow  fruits,  and  all  kinds  of  fragrant 
shrubs  and  flowers. 

HONEY  should  be  on  every  table,  not  only  as  a  luxury,  but  a 
healthy  article  everywhere.  The  process  for  keeping  it  in  all  its 
freshness  the  year  round  should  be  known  to  every  housekeeper^ 
so  that  every  family  may  be  able  to  make  their  own  honey.  It 
should  be  run  through  a  sieve  in  order  to  get  out  all  the  wax  ; 
boil  gently  in  an  earthen  or  copper  kettle,  then  pour  into  another 
vessel;  set  away  in  a  cool  place,  tightly  covered;  the  next  day 


RATS  AND  MICE.  5OI 

uncover  the  vessel  and  gently  remove  the  crust  of  wax  on  the 
top,  and  pour  the  honey  into  large  jars  or  carboys ;  leave  this 
open,  and  in  a  few  days  all  the  sediment  will  be  thrown  from  the 
top,  which  remove,  and  cork  and  seal  closely. 

BEES  AND  SOILS. — Flowers  that  grow  on  rich  soils  are  much  more 
visited  than  those  that  grow  on  poor  soils,  such  as  buckwheat  clo- 
ver, fruit  trees,  berry  bushes,  vines,  rosemary,  broom,  bean  flowers, 
mignonnette,  lemon,  thyme,  &c.,  &c.  As  bees  seldom  fly  more  than 
a  mile  for  food,  it  is  best  to  grow  what  they  love  most  around  or 
near  them. 

To  PRESERVE  BEES  FROM  WORMS. — About  the  first  of  May  raise 
the  hive  up  and  strew  some  fine  salt  under  the  edge. 

To  CHLOROFORM  BEES.- --The  quantity  of  chloroform  required  for 
an  ordinary  hive  is  the  sixth  part  of  an  ounce.  A  very  large  hive 
may  take  nearly  a  quarter  of  an  ounce.  Set  down  a  table  opposite 
to  and  about  four  feet  distant  from  the  hive:  on  the  table  spread  a 
thick  linen  cloth ;  in  the  center  of  table  place  a  shallow  breakfast 
plate,  which  cover  with  a  piece  of  wire  gauze  to  prevent  the  bees 
from  coming  in  immediate  contact  with  the  chloroform  ;  now  quickly 
and  cautiously  lift  the  hive  from  the  board  on  which  it  is  standing, 
set  it  down  on  the  top  of  the  table,  keeping  the  plate  in  the  center ; 
cover  the  hive  closely  up  with  cloths,  and  in  20  minutes  or  so  the 
bees  are  not  only  sound  asleep,  but  not  one  is  left  among  the  combs  ; 
the  whole  of  them  are  lying  helpless  on  the  table.  You  may  now 
remove  what  honey  you  think  fit  ;  replace  the  hive  in  its  old  stand, 
and  the  bees,  as  they  revive,  will  return  to  their  domicile.  A  bright, 
calm  sunny  day  is  the  best ;  and  you  should  commence  your  opera- 
tions early  in  the  morning,  before  any  of  them  are  abroad. 

BEES  AND  SUGAR. — Bees  confined  to  a  dish  of  purified  sugar  will 
continue  to  produce  wax. 

LARGE  PODDED  MILK  OR  SILK  WEED  AND  BEES. — This  weed  is 
said  to  be  certain  death  to  every  bee  that  lights  on  it.  They  pull 
off  their  feet  in  trying  to  get  off  from  it.  Kill  the  weed  is  the  only 
remedy. 

RATS  AND  MICE. 

To  DRIVE  AWAY  RATS. — Saturate  cotton  wool  with  powdered  red 
pepper  and  stuff  it  in  their  holes. 

DESTROYING  RATS. — Corks  cut  in  thin  slices  and  stewed  or  roasted 
in  grease  and  placed  in  their  tracks,  or  dried  sponge,  in  small  pieces, 
fried  or  dipped  in  honey,  with  a  little  of  the  oil  of  rhodium  laid  in 
their  haunts,  will  stick  to  their  feet  and  cause  them  to  leav,e  ;  or  rub 
well  a  live  rat  with  fat  or  train  oil,  and  let  him  escape  in  "his  hole, 
and  all  others  will  make  their  exit. 


502  CANARY  BIRDS. 

POWDERED  POTASH. — If  powdered,  thrown  and  scattered  in  the- 
haunts  of  rats,  it  will  drive  them  away. 

DEAD  RATS. — To  free  a  room  from  the  smell. — Take  a  small 
earthern  vessel  into  which  put  saltpetre,  a  little,  or  more  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  room;  pour  upon  this  enough  oil  of  vitrol  to 
separate  it,  and  shut  the  room  close  for  one  hour,  the  offensive 
smell  will  be  gone. 

To  DESTROY  RATS. — Cats  are  the  most  reliable  rat-traps.  There 
is  no  difficulty  in  poisoning  rats,  but  they  die  in  the  wall,  produc- 
ing a  dreadful  effluvia,  which  it  takes  a  long  time  to  get  rid  of; 
remove  or  cover  all  water  vessels,  even  the  well  or  cistern,  when 
poison  is  attempted.  Set  traps  and  put  inside  a  few  drops  of 
rhodium  the  rats  are  fond  of  it.  As  it  produces  thirst,  let  a  large 
shallow  open  vessel  of  water  be  left  in  the  rear  yard.  They  will 
drink  and  die  there. 

To  DRIVE  AWAY  RATS. — Put  chloride  of  lime  in  their  holes. 

BAIT  FO  CATCH  RATS  AND  MICE. — If  a  drop  of  oil  of  rhodium  be 
poured  upon  some  bait  in  a  common  wire  or  spring  trap,  and  the 
trap  be  set  in  an  infested  locality,  and  in  a  short  time  the  cage  will 
be  occupied  by  vermin.  Rats  and  mice  possess  great  liking  for  the 
oil  and  will  risk  anything  to  obtain  it. 

CANARY  BIRDS. 

CANARY,  TO  DISTINGUISH  THE  SEX. — The  throat  of  the  male 
vibrates  while  singing.  This  never  happens  with  the  hen.  The 
males  are  larger,  more  yellow  about  the  throat  and  in  the  pinions  of 
the  wings.  The  body  of  the  male  is  larger  and  more  tapering. 

BEST  SINGERS. — Birds  with  long,  straight  and  tapering  bodies  are 
the  best  singers.  By  putting  2  or  3  birds  together  they  will  vie  with 
each  other. 

DROOPING. — When  this  is  the  case,  give  the  bird  a  little  powdered 
charcoal  mixed  with  bread  and  egg. 

LICE. — Put  sticks  in  the  bottom  of  the  cage,  and  the  lice  will  col- 
lect on  them. 

FOR  A  BROKEN  LEG  OR  WING. — Put  the  bird  in  a  cage  without 
perches  and  covered  at  the  bottom  with  soft  hay.  Let  its  food  be 
within  easy  reach,  and  keep  the  cage  covered. 

MOULTING. — A  void  cold;  give  plenty  of  sun  shine,  some  bread 
and  egg,  with  saffron  water. 

FITS. — Cut  two  of  the  claws  short  enough  to  bleed. 

EGG-BOUND  FROM  COLD. — Give  a  little  moist  sugar ;  anoint  the 
abdomen*  with  sweet  oil;  if  this  fails,  give  a  drop  of  castor  oil. 

IRON  DUST. — Mixed  in  with  the  straw  for  bird's  or  canary's  nests 


CANARY  BIRDS.  5°3 

will  prevent  their  being  infested  by  vermin,  and  render  the  parent 
and  birdlings  more  healthy. 

GERMAN  PASTE  FOH  FBEDING  SINGING  BIRDS. — Blanch  i  pound 
sweet  almonds,  2  pounds  of  peasmeal,  3  ounces  of  butter,  a  few 
grains  of  saffron,  honey,  a  sufficient  quantity.  Form  the  whole  into 
a  paste,  and  granulate  it  by  pressing  through  a  colander.  Some  add 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs. 

TEACHING  BIRDS  TO  SING — A  German  method. — The  young 
birds  are  divided  into  classes,  from  6  to  10  each,  and  are  kept  in  the 
dark.  As  they  are  fed  a  small  organ  is  played.  The  birds  begin 
to  associate  the  music  with  the  feeding,  and  when  hungry  they  begin 
to  sing  a  few  notes  of  the  tune  they  hear  daily.  They  are  then  placed 
in  a  room  where  light  is  admitted.  This  seems  to  render  them  more 
lively.  Then  they  are  taught  additional  music,  and  enjoy  singing. 
The  most  difficult  task  is  starting  the  birds.  Some  are  kept  for  a 
long  time  in  the  dark  and  on  starving  rations  before  their  stupidity 
or  obstinacy  can  be  overcome. 

CANARY  BIRDS,  TO  MAKE  THEM  COLORED.— A  Berlin  recipe.— 
Give  them  a  little  cayenne  pepper  regularly.  This  will  cause  them 
to  lose  their  feathers,  but  after  a  short  time  new  ones  begin  to  grow, 
and  the  birds  come  out  with  a  new  plumage,  with  all  the  vivid  col- 
ors of  the  parrot  and  cockatoos.  Some  are  a  light  brown,  others 
vermillion  red,  &c.  It  is  known  that  the  bright  colors  of  tropical 
birds  are  owing  to  the  oils  in  certain  spices  upon  which  they  feed. 

MOULTING  CANARIES.— When  your  canary  birds  are  moulting  and 
cease  to  sing,  do  this :  Put  a  little  oxide  of  iron  (iron  rust  from  the 
drug  store),  or  let  a  couple  of  nails  be  in  the  water  they  drink  ;  re- 
move their  bath-tub  so  that  nothing  remains  to  drink  but  the  iron 
water.  To  give  color  to  the  incoming  feathers,  put  some  saffron  in 
water'in  another  bath-tub.  The  birds  suffer  from  fever  while  moult- 
ing, and  the  iron  braces  them.  After  restored  to  health  they  will 
sing  very  loud  and  almost  continually. 

To  TEACH  A  PARROT  TO  SPEAK.— The  quickest  way  is  to  send  th 
bird,  if  possible,  where  there  is  another  parrot  that  can  speak.  They 
should  be  placed  near  enough  to  hear,  but  not  to  see  each  other.  A 
good  way  is  to  speak  to  the  bird  at  night,  just  when  his  cage  has 
been  covered  over  (which  must  always  be  done  with  a  woolen  cloth 
in  winter) ;  repeat  over  several  times  in  the  same  tone  the  sentence 
which  you  wish  him  to  learn.  He  may  not  appear  to"  notice  atfirst, 
but  some  day,  quite  unexpectedly,  he  will  repeat  the  sentence  ex- 
actly in  the  same  tone  that  he  has  heard  it.  He  should  at  once  b 
rewarded  with  a  bit  of  sugar,  fruit  or  dainty  that  he  is  fond  of.  They 
are  very  quick  at  understanding  that  rewards  are  given  for  obedi- 
ence. Never  allow  a  parrot  to  be  startled  or  teased,  or  permit  it  to 


FORCEMEATS  OR  STUFFING. 

be  indiscriminately  fed  by  visitors.  Keep  the  cage  extremely  clean; 
let  it  be  wiped  out  and  fresh  sand  be  given  every  day.  Some  birds 
drink  very  little,  but  they  should  always  be  able  to  get  a  drink  of 
fresh  water,  if  they  wish.  Keep  the  canary  can  full  of  seed.  The 
bread  and  milk,  in  the  morning,  should  not  be  forgotten. 

FOOD  FOR  MOCKING  BIRDS. — Mix  together  2  parts  corn  meal,  2 
parts  peasmeal  and  i  part  moss  meal ;  add  a  little  melted  lard,  but 
not  sufficient  to  make  the  mixture  too  greasy,  and  sweeten  with  mo- 
lasses. Fry  in  a  frying-pan  for  1-2  hour,  stirring  constantly,  and 
taking  care  not  to  let  it  burn.  This  makes  it  keep  well.  Put  it  in 
a  covered  jar.  The  moss-meal  is  prepared  by  drying  and  grinding 
the  imported  German  moss  seed.  Peas  boiled  and  mashed  are  as 
good  as  the  meal  for  the  preparation. 

FRUIT  FOR  BIRDS. — The  dwarf  mountain  June  berry,  the  huckle- 
berry, red  mulberry  and  elderberries  are  a  healthy  diet,  and  are 
much  liked  by  birds,  and  it  behooves  those  who  keep  them  to  cater 
to  their  tastes,  and  these  things  are  cheap,  and  can  be  easily  grown 
for  them. 

FORCEMEATS   OR  STUFFING. 

THE  STUFFING  FOR  TOMATOES. — Remove  the  part  next  to  the 
stem  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  with  a  teaspoon  carefully  take  out  the 
seed,  so  as  not  to  break  the  rind  of  the  fruit ;  then  place  these  in 
order  around  a  frying  pan  with  a  spoonful  of  butter  or  a  jill  of  sweet 
oil;  then  chop  up  some  mush,  a  handful  of  parsley,  and  four  shalots 
or  some  chives,  a  good  spoonful  of  fat  bacon  that  has  been  scraped, 
say  2  oz.,  and  the  same  quantity  of  lean  ham,  grated  or  ground  or 
chopped ;  season  with  a  little  thyme  chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper  and  a 
little  nutmeg  (if  fancied).  Fry  these  over  the  stove  for  five  minutes, 
then  mix  in  the  yolks  of  4  well  beaten  eggs,  till  the  ingredients  are 
a  smooth  batter ;  fill  the  tomato  rinds  with  it,  then  shake  over  them 
some  light  brown  raspings  of  bread,  then  set  the  pan  over  a  brisk 
fire,  holding  a  red-hot  salamander  over  them  for  ten  minutes;  then 
serve  hot,  or  use  as  you  wish  for  pig  or  fowl.' 

PANADA  FOR  FORCEMEATS. — Put  2-3  of  a  cup  of  water  into  a 
quart  stew-pan,  with  a  moderate  spoonful  of  butter,  when  boiling, 
stir  in  4  oz.  of  flour,  stirring  it  constantly  until  done  and  smooth. 
Pour  it  out  of  the  pan  to  cool,  and  use  as  wished. 

FOR  HARE  OR  ANYTHING  IN  IMITATION  OF  IT. — Take  scalded 
liver,  an  anchovy,  some  fat  bacon,  a  little  salt,  some  parsley,  thyme, 
knitted  marjoram,  a  little  sholot,  and  either  onion  or  chives,  all 
chopped  fine;  crumbs  of  bread,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  beat  in  a  mortar 
with  eggs.  This  is  very  fine  for  stuffing  veal  or  mutton  ham. 

STUFFING  FOR  GAME,  TURKEY,  VEAL  AND  BAKED  FISH.  —  Equal 


FORCEMEATS  OR  STUFFING.  505 

quantities  of  beef  suet  (chopped  very  fine)  and  bread  crumbs,  and 
1-4  the  quantity  of  either  of  chopped  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of  each 
of  powdered  thyme  and  marjoram,  a  bay  leaf,  the  rind  of  one  lemon 
grated,  and  the  juice  of  half  an  one,  1-4  grated  nutmeg,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  then  stir  well  into  the  whole  three  well  beaten  eggs ;  if 
used  to  fill  turkey  or  fish  add  more  chopped  parsley, 

STUFFING  OF  FISH. — This  can  be  made  of  the  flesh  of  almost  any 
kind  of  fish,  namely,  the  pike,  salmon,  haddock,  sole,  trout,  and  the 
whiting.  The  flesh  of  either  after  the  skin  is  removed,  should  be 
beaten  to  a  pulp  in  a  mortar,  then  take  it  and  form  it  to  a  ball,  then 
take  a  piece  of  panada  about  one-third  the  size  of  the  ball,  and 
pound  that  well,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  then  mix  thor- 
oughly with  the  panada,  then  put  in  the  fish,  season  to  taste  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  then  mix  all  well  to- 
gether, then  slowly  add  three  whole  well  beaten  eggs  and  the  yolks 
of  two.  This  forms  excellent  stuffing  for  any  kind  of  fish. 

FOR  FISH. — Chip,  and  afterwards  pound  in  a  mortar,  any  kind  of 
fish,  adding  an  anchovy  or  two,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  the  essence  of 
anchovies  (but  do  not  allow  the  taste  to  prevail)  and  the  yolk  of  a 
hard  boiled  egg;  if  for  the  maigre,  pound  butter  with  it ;  but  other- 
wise, the  fat  of  bacon  pounded  separately  and  then  mixed ;  add  a 
third  portion  of  bread,  prepared  by  previously  pounding  and  soak- 
ing, and  mix  the  whole  up  with  raw  eggs. 

CORN  BREAD  STUFFING  FOR  TURKEYS  AND  CHICKENS. — Take  the 
crumb  of  corn  bread  and  make  it  rich  with  new  butter,  suet,  or  lard, 
pepper,  salt,  and  onions.  It  is  an  excellent  stuffing. 

STUFFING  FOR  TURKEY  OR  CHICKEN. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Thornton,  Col. 
— A  loaf  of  bread  grated  or  broken  very  fine,  seasoned  only  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  thoroughly  moistoned  with  fresh  butter,  well 
rubbed  into  it. 

OYSTERS  MAKE  AN  EXCELLENT  STUFFING  FOR  TURKEY,  GOOSE  OR 
YOUNG  FOWLS. — Having  prepared  a  young  fat  fowl  for  boiling,  fill 
the  body  and  breast  with  oysters,  flavored  with  some  pounded  mace. 
Sew  up  the  places  to  keep  them  in.  Put  the  fowl  in  a  tall,  straight 
jar,  and  cover  closely,  then  set  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  water  setting 
over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  for  at  least  11-2  hours  after  it  has  be- 
gun to  boil  hard,  stick  a  fork  in  the  fowl,  and  if  the  holes  close  up, 
then  it  it  is  done,  take  it  up,  and  keep  it  hot  while  you  prepare  the 
gravy  from  the  juice  left  in  the  jar.  Pour  this  in  a  sauce  pan,  beat 
2  yolks  of  egg  in  a  half  cup  of  new  cream,  and  add  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  formed  into  a  paste  with  flour;  mix  this  with  the 
gravy  in  the  saucepan.  If  cream  is  not  to  be  had,  double  your  por- 
tion of  butter.  After  scalding  this  over  the  fire,  continue  to  skim  it 
well,  and  add  20  oysters  or  more  chopped  fine,  when  the  gravy 


506  FORCEMEATS  OR  STUFFING. 

comes  to  a  boil.  In  five  minutes  it  will  be  ready  for  serving  with 
the  fowl.  If  cooked  according  to  recipe,  it  will  be  found  excellent. 
If  clams  are  substituted  for  oysters,  they  should  be  removed  from 
the  fowl  before  sending  them  to  the  table,  as  they  become  tough, 
and  flavorless,  and  should  not  be  eaten  while  the  juice  runs  into  the 
gravy. 

ONION  STUFFING. — After  peeling  twelve  large  perfectly  sound 
onions,  parboil  them  for  15  minutes  then  lay  them  in  a  cloth  to  dry. 
Mince  finely  cold  roast  veal,  beef,  or  fowl,  with  sage,  three  hard 
boiled  eggs,  grated,  and  grated  crumbs  of  bread.  Season  with  grat- 
ed nutmeg  and  mace,  or  pepper  and  salt.  Then  remove  the  inside 
of  each  onion,  so  as  not  to  spoil  the  outside  and  fill  them  with  the 
preparation.  Set  them  in  a  pan  and  boil  them  in  milk  till  done;  when 
the  milk  simmers,  add  some  butter  made  into  a  paste  with  flour. 
Serve  upon  buttered  toast,  or  the  onions  with  the  ingredients  can 
be  made  into  a  stuffing  for  a  fowl. 

FORCE  MEAT  BALLS  FOR  FISH  SOUPS. — Or  fish  stewed  during 
Lent. — Beat  the  flesh  and  soft  parts  of  a  middling  lobster;  one-half 
of  a  herring,  a  large  piece  of  boiled  celery,  the  yolk  of  a  hard 
egg,  a  little  cayenne,  mace,  salt,  and  white  pepper,  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  i  spoonful  of  oyster  liquor,  2  spoonfuls 
butter  warmed,  and  2  eggs  long  beaten;  make  into  balls,  fry  of  a  fine 
brown  in  butter. 

LITTLE  EGGS  FOR  TURTLE. — Boil  3  hard  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  mortar 
and  make  into  a  paste  with  the  yolk  of  a  raw  one,  roll  into  small 
ball  and  throw  them  into  boiling  water  for  2  minutes  to  harden. 

DRESSING  FOR  TURKEY. — (C.  Kennicot.)- — One  pint  of  soaked 
bread,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sage,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  summer  savory, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  2  teaspoonsful  of  pepper,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg  ;  mix  thoroughly. 

THE  STUFFING. — The  liver  and  heart  chopped  fine,  and  bread 
crumbs;  soften  it  with  milk;  take  the  bread  out  and  mix  with  1-2 
pound  of  sausage  meat,  onion  and^  parsley,  chopped  fine,  simmered 
in  butter ;  put  in  a  dish ;  add  salt  and  pepper,  2  or  3  eggs  ;  fill  up 
the  turkey  before  it  is  cooked. 

HACHIS. — (French.) — Take  any  sort  of  meat,  game  or  poultry 
that  has  been  washed  or  otherwise  dressed,  and  chop  up  fine ;  re- 
move the  skins  and  strings,  add  sausage,  season  with  parsley,  and 
green  onions,  and  bread  crumbs  and  2  or  3  eggs  beaten  up,  accord- 
ing to  the  meat.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  and  fry  with  a  bit  of  butter 
and  a  pinch  of  flour ;  pour  in  broth  and  let  it  simmer  for  one-half 
hour  over  a  good  fire.  This  may  be  used  as  stuffing  for  goose  or 
turkey,  with  a  little  lemon  squeezed  over  it. 

FORCEMEAT  FOR  FOWLS. — (A  Hamburg  Recipe.) — Take  soaked 


POULTRY.  5°7 

bread,  drain,  put  in  fat  or  butter,  parsley  and  onions ;  make  hot  in 
the  pan ;  then  put  the  soaked  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs,  or  more,  well 
beaten;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mix  well,  put  in  the  fowl  and 

bake. 

FILLING  FOR  FOWLS  OF  ANY  KIND.— One  quart  sweet  milk,  3-4 
cup  corn  starch,  4  eggs,  sugar  and  flour  to  suit. 

FORCEMEAT  BALLS.— Season  the  minced,  beaten,  or  ground  meat 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice;  i  beaten  egg,  and 
make  it  in  balls,  which  roll  into  marble  size,  throw  into  boiling 
water  for  five  minutes,  then  lay  them  in  a  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over, 
lay  slices  of  lemon  on  top.  Serve  separate  on  a  small  dish.  Ex- 
cellent. 

PRAIRIE  CHICKEN.— Roast  and  dress  as  common  chicken ;  use 

the  same  stuffing.  ( 

BALLS  TO  Go  WITH  GAME. — Half  pound  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  i 
lb.  of  beefs  or  calfs  liver,  10  oz.  of  fat  bacon,  some  parsley,  thyme, 
nutmeg,  lemon  peel,  i  bay  leaf,  a  little  sweet  basil,  and  chopped  fine ; 
pepper,  salt,  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten ;  mix  the  whole  thoroughly  and 
make  into  small,  round  balls ;  dip  in  rice,  or  wheat  flour,  then  fry  a 
light  brown. 

TUREEN  OF  GAME.— Bone  and  stuff  your  bird  with  forcemeat  and 
season  as  other  birds,  then  use  a  coarse  pie  dish  with  the  forcemeat 
and  lay  in  the  bird,  then  put  over  it  some  more  forcemeat,  with  a 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  a  bay  leaf  on  the  top,  and  put  a  belt  of  coarse 
flour  paste  inside  of  the  rim  of  the  pan,  then  bake  it  3  hours  in  a 
moderate  stove.  This  should  be  open  a  week  afterwards  (if  the 
weather  be  cool),  and  it  will  be  found  to  be  delicious.  When  served 
the  bird  and  dressing  should  remain  in  the  baking  dish,  the  top  be- 
ing taken  off;  remove  the  bay  leaf,  and  lay  fresh  water  cresses  over. 
N.  B.— All  sorts  of  meat,  poultry  and  game  may  be  done  in  the 
same  way.  This  is  not  only  quickly  done,  but  it  is  both  good  and 
economical,  and  at  the  same  time  it  will  keep  a  long  time. 

POULTRY.  « 

RATIONAL  RULES  FOR  POULTRY  BREEDERS.— i.  Feed  regularly, 
2.  Roosts  from  the  ground.  3.  Nests  on  the  ground.  4.  Whitewash 
your  poultry  house  outside  if  you  want  to  keep  the  boards  from  split- 
ting. 5.  Whitewash  the  house  inside.  6.  Feed  plenty  of  green  food. 
7.  Never  overfeed.  8.  Fresh  water  daily.  9.  Have  a  dust-bath  in 
your  fowl  house.  10.  Never  train  your  cocks  to  fight,  n.  Give  stim- 
ulating food  when  moulting.  12.  Make  cleanliness  a  specialty. 
i3.Clean  out  your  fowl  house  once  a  week.  14.  Breed  to  the 
standard. 


508  POULTRY. 

RAISING  POULTRY. — It  is  best  to  have  a  number  of  partitions  in  a 
long  building,  with  a  long  row  of  nests  ;  the  eggs  can  be  gathered  at 
night  and  sent  fresh  the  next  morning  to  market.  Wheat  shorts, 
meat  scraps,  meal  corn,  and  other  varieties  of  grain,  with  broken 
oyster  shells  and  calcined  bone,  should  be  given  them  in  abundance; 
these,  with  cleanliness,  are  the  strong  points  of  good  poultry  man- 
agement. Disinfectants  should  be  freely  used. 

THE  NETTLE  is  of  value  as  food  for  poultry,  turkeys  and  hogs. 

CONDIMENTS  IN  POULTRY  DIET. — Poultry  World. — Cayenne  g£p- 
per,  ginger,  pepper,  mustard,  can,  with  good  benefit,  be  added  to 
the  food  of  fowls  to  increase  their  vigor  and  to  stimulate  egg  pro- 
duction. This  apparently  artificial  diet  will  be' seen  to  be  natural,  if 
we  remember  that  wild  fowl  of  the  gallinivorous  species  get  access 
to  very  high  spiced  berries  and  buds,  articles  that  give  the  ''game 
flavor"  to  their  flesh.  A  moderate  quantity  of  cayenne  pepper  ad- 
ded to  the  ground  grain  is  always  productive  of  health  and  vigor  in 
poultry. 

FOOD  FOR  POULTRY  OR  TURKEYS. — Feed  the  hen  with  coarse  corn 
meal  until  satisfied,  and  her  brood  with  finely  chopped  hard  boiled 
eggs.  Milk  is  better  for  them  to  drink  than  water;  boiled  potatoes 
mixed  with  milk,  clabber,  stale  meat  or  bread  are  all  good.  Now 
and  then  give  them  alum  water  and  pepper  in  their  food.  Allow 
2  1-2  tablespoonfuls  of  alum  to  2  pints  of  water. 

To  FATTEN  POULTRY. — Make  a  row  of  coops  with  baths  on  sunny 
side  of  barn,  large  enough  only  to  admit  the  fowls  standing  on  a 
perch  in  some  and  not  to  turn  or  not  to  get  down ;  feed  from  4  to  5 
times  a  day  at  regular  times  with  different  kinds  of  food  each  time, 
(cooked),  sufficient  for  one  meal.  In  2  weeks  they  will  increas  75 
per  cent. 

To  PATTEN  FOWLS  IN  A  SHORT  TIME. — Mix  well  together  ground 
rice  scalded  in  milk  and  add  some  coarse  sugar.  Feed  them  with 
this  in  the  day  time,  but  not  too  much  at  a  time.  Let  it  be  pretty 
thick. 

*  WORMS  FOR  FOWLS. — During  moulting  season  give  them  minced 
raw  meat ;  if  fowls  run  on  grass,  where  they  can  get  worms  and 
insects,  they  do  not  need  so  much  meat.  The  Chinese  feed  their 
fowls  and  cage  birds  a  great  deal  on  the  silk  worm  or  grub.  As  it 
comes  out  of  the  cocoon  they  dry,  press  and  put  it  away  for  future 
use.  The  Chinese  use  meat  o"hly  four  times  a  lunar  month. 

FASTING  FOWLS. — Should  have  for  several  hours,  only  a  small 
portion  of  soft  bread  wet  up  with  milk,  a  teacupful  at  a  time;  this  serves 
both  as  food  and  drink.  If  the  fowls  suffer  much  from  the  effects  of 
fasting  or  a  long  journey,  give  them  ale  and  bread,  instead  of 
bread  and  water. 


POULTRY.  5°9 

YOUNG  TURKEYS,  FOOD  FOR. — Hard  boiled  egg,  cheese  crust, 
stale  bread,  cracked  wheat,  onions,  leeks,  all  cut  short  and  fine,  and 
moistened  a  little  with  water.  Feed  them  for  a  month  with  the 
mixture,  keeping  them  out  of  the  dew. 

YOUNG  TURKEYS — Should  not  be  permitted  to  run  out  on  the 
grass  before  10  o'clock  in  the  morning,  until  they  are  ten  days  old. 
To  FATTEN  DUCKS  AND  GEE;E. — An  English  method. — Boil 
slightly  the  leaves  of  lettuce  and  cabbage  with  carrots,  all  chopped 
fine,  and  feed  them.  The  leaves  of  carrots  chopped,  are  also  good 
when  boiled  with  a  little  grain.  N.  B.  Ten  days  before  killing 
them,  give  them  nothing  but  chopped  carrots.  It  makes  the  flesh 
delicious. 

YOUNG  DUCKS. — C.  Faidener. — The  best  food  for  young  ducks  is 
oat  meal.  If  they  are  hatched  under  a  hen,  you  may  let  them  be  at 
liberty  with  her,  providing  them  with  oat  meal  mixed  with  water  in  a 
plate.  If  there  is  water  they  (to  the  hen's  great  discomfort)  will 
dabble  about  on  the  edge  of  it,  and  find  some  food.  If  hatched 
under  a  duck,  the  safest  plan  is  to  confine  them  for  a  fortnight  in 
old  place,  such  as  a  pig  stye,  where  the  faulty  paving  or  earth  allows 
of  p'uddles.  They  must  be  fed  here  in  the  same  way.  The  objec- 
tion to  a  duck  being  at  liberty  with  her  brood  is,  she  drags  them  about 
evenings  when  the  flies  are  about,  she  takes  them  under  beetling  banks,  - 
and  often  leaves  some  behind.  When  there  is  only  a  small  and  open 
pen,  the  duck  may  be  safely  left  at  liberty  with  her  brood. 

KILLING  FOWLS.— Only  turkeys  and  geese  should  be  bled  to 
death;  the  flesh  of  chickens  becomes  dry  and  insipid  from  the  loss  of 
blood.  The  best  plan  is  to  take  a  flat  stick,  and  strike  the  bird  a 
smart  blow  on  the  back  of  the  neck  about  the  third  joint  from 
the  head;  death  follows  in  a  moment. 

To  PICK  A  CHICKEN. — By  means  of  a  knife,  remove  all  the 
fine  hairs  from  the  head,  take  out  the  eyes,  cut  off  the  under 
bill  and  the  tongue^  now  place  the  chicken  on  its  breast,  cut  the  skin 
off  the  back  of  the  neck  lengthwise,  from  the  point  where  the  neck 
and  back  meet,  to  the  head,  loosen  the  craw  carefully,  without 
breaking  it,  and  remove  it  at  once;  then  lay  the  chicken  on  its  back, 
cut  open  the  body  a  little,  and  singe  on  all  sides,  wash  it  clean,  and 
let  the  water  drain  off.  Clean  the  heart  and  liver,  remove  the  gall 
carefully  from  the  liver,  and  put  them  into  the  body  of  the  chicken 
and  prepare  it  for  roasting. 

To  CURE  CATS  FROM  CATCHING  CHICKENS.— When  given  to  the 
practice,  catch  a  chicken  and  tie  it  around  the  cat's  neck ;  fasten  it 
securely  and  make  her  wear  it  2  or  3  days. 

CLEANSE  the  chicken  coops  or  houses.  Never  put  a  new  supply  of 
food  on  an  old  one  which  has  become  sour  or  tainted  from  stand- 


5IO  POULTRY. 

ing,  but  clean  and  wash  all  the  food  out.  Scrape  out  the  corners, 
that  all  the  offensive  or  stale  matter  may  be  removed.  Wash  with 
hot  water  and  add  a  handful  of  caustic  lime  and  sprinkle  over  the 
bottom. 

EGG  BOUND  FOWLS. — Give  a  dose  of  .castor  oil;  if  this  does  not 
do,  inject  2  tablespoonfuls  of  warm  olive  oil  against  the  egg  by 
means  of  a  syringe.  Should  there  be  a  rupture,  keep  the  bird  quiet. 
Give  sufficient  opium  for  this  purpose  beginning  with  1-2  grain  dose; 
to  prevent  inflamation,  feed  low. 

HATCHING  COLD  EGGS. — When  a  hen  leaves  her  nest  for  a  day  or 
two  remove  them  to  a  hot  oven  of  95  degrees  and  they  will  hatch 
themselves. 

•CHOICE  OF  EGGS  FOR  SETTING. — Round,  short,  smooth  shelled 
eggs  alone  are  proper  for  hatching.  Avoid  long  rough  shelled  ones 
for  this  purpose. 

To  MAKE  HENS  LAY. — Boil  some  oats  till  soft,  then  fry  them  in  hot 
fat  and  you  will  have  any  quantity  of  eggs. 

To  PRESERVE  EGGS. — Pack  them  away  in  dry  plaster  in  a  dry 
place  ;  they  will  keep  a  year, 

PARISIAN  MODE  OF  PRESERVING  EGGS. — Dissolve  1-4  Ib.  of  bees 
wax  in  1-2  Ib.  of  warm  olive  oil ;  in  this  put  the  tip  of  the  finger  and 
anoint  the  egg  all  around.  The  oil  will  be  completely  absorbed  by 
the  shell  and  the  pores  filled  up  by  the  wax.  If  kept  in  a  cool  dry 
place,  the  eggs,  after  2  years  will  be  as  good  as  if  fresh  laid. 

To  PREVENT  GAPES. — Apply  to  the  heads  of  the  chickens  an  oint- 
ment composed  of  i  oz.  each  of  mercurial  ointment  and  pure  lard, 
1-2  oz.  of  sulphur  flowers,  1-2  oz.  crude  petroleum. 

A  CURTAIN  CURE  FOR  GAPING. — Is  the  vapor  from  carbolic  acid ; 
place  a  little  of  the  crystalized  acid  in  a  spoon  or  metal  saucer,  hold 
it  over  a  candle  or  lamp ;  hold  the  bird  so  that  it  will  be  obliged  to 
inhale  the  fumes,  being  careful  not  to  protract  it  so  long  as  to  kill 
the  chick.  Generally  one  application  is  sufficient. 

GAPES  in  chickens  is  believed  to  be  caused  by  a  worm,  the  pro- 
genitor of  which  is  a  louse  found  on  the  head  of  chickens  soon  after 
hatching.  This  louse  deposits  its  eggs  in  the  nostril  of  the  chicken, 
where  it  hatches,  and  the  resulting  worms  are  worked  back  into  the 
trachea  of  the  bird,  causing  gapes  and  finally  suffocation;  and  these 
lice  should  be  bestroyed  by  being  picked  off. 

CHICKEN  CHOLERA. — Make  a  decoction  of  smart  weed  as  strong 
as  can  be  ;  then  mix  the  meal  with  it  to  feed  the  chickens.  Allow 
2  or  3  pints  to  2  or  3  gallons  of  meal.  To  not  suffer  it  to  become 
sour,  but  make  a  new  supply  ;  feed  the  fowls  with  it  2  or  3  times  a 
day. 

DISTEMPER  IN  GEESE  OR  GARCIL. — Pound  together  several  cloves 


POULTRY. 


of  garlic  and  some  sweet  butter,  then  form  them  into  little  balls  and 
give  them  to  the  geese  while  fasting,  nor  should  they  take  food  3  or 

4  hours  after. 

FRACTURED  BONES.— Poultry  World.— There  is  no  mystery  about 
the  treatment  of  a  broken  bone ;  it  will  heal  any  way,  the  time  vary- 
ing according  to  the  age  and  quiet  of  the  fowl,  and  the  deformity 
upon  the  degree  of  displacement  of  the  fracture.  In  keeping  the 
ends  of  a  broken  bone  together,  the  breeder  will  have  an  oportumty 
to  draw  on  his  mechanical  skill,  but  will  find  that  his  restless  patient 
will  generally  leave  his  limbs  deformed.  The  best  results  come 
from  broken  shanks. 

BROWN  paper  saturated  with  white  of  egg  and  suffered  to  harden 
makes  a  good  enough  splint;  pasteboard  wet  and  molded  to  the 
shape  of  the  limb  is  good.  In  cases  of  broken  wings  tie  the  feathers 
together  about  an  inch  fr/>m  the  end.  Fowls  with  limbs  deformed 
from  fracture,  breed  well  enough. 

FOR  FOWL  AILMENTS.— Give  in  the  form  of  pills  a  few  drops  of 
crude  kerosine  oil  or  spirits  of  camphor  mixed  with  corn  mea 
bread  crumbs,  and  put  down  the  throat  of  the  fowl  No  diseased 
fowl  should  be  allowed  to  go  with  the  well  ones,  but  placed  in  a  dry 
coop,  and  give  it  cooked  food  warmly  soiced  with  red  pepper  or 
spirits  of  camphor.  . 

BROKEN  EGGS.— While  setting  can  be  made  secure  by  placing  a 
niece  of  court-plaster  over  the  broken  shell. 

P  CHICKEN  LicE.-Give  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sulphur 
mixed  in  meal  for  every  10  hens  once  a  week. 

THE  DISEASES  OF  FOWLS  AND  HOW  TO  CARE  FOR  THEM.— 1  he  C 
eases  to  which  they  are  most  subject  are  roop,  pip,  scounng  and  chip. 
The  first  arises  from  cold,  and  is  the  most  common  of  all,  and 
eves  become  swollen,  the  nostrils  run  and  the  wattle  turn  of  a  purp- 
h  hue      Chickens  or  fowls,  if  affected,  should  be  separated  imme- 
diately from  the  healthy  fowl,  for  the  disease  at  its  height  is  as  infec- 
tious as  the  epizootic    or  glanders  among  horses.     Bathe  the  nose 
and  eyes   of  the  sick  fowl  with  milk  and  warm  water  and  each  day 
g?ve  it  a  pepper  corn  in  its  dough.     Bathe  the  head  in  brandy  and 
water  if  much  swollen,  and  while  getting  well  put  a  spoonful  of  sul- 
phur in  his  drinking  water.     The  eggs  laid  by  hens  that  are  diseased 
should  be  thrown  away  ;  they  are  unwholesome  confined  for  awhile 
PouHry  should  never  be  underfed,  but  have  a  liberal  supply  of  good 
solid  food,  and  those  intended  for  killing  and  for  laying  early  should 
always  be  kept    in  a  good    condition.     Oat    meal  or  barley  meal 
wiTh  mashed  potatoes  are  good.     Old  bones  for  them  to  pick,  and 
the  lights  and  livers  of  beef  are  good  for  them. 


512  POULTRY. 

THE  MANAGEMENT  OF  POULTRY. — They  must  be  provided  for 
carefully,  both  by  proper  lodging  and  feeding.  The  chief  points 
required  are  ist,  a  warm  and  dry  lodging ;  2d,  proper  vegetable 
and  animal  food ;  3d,  a  supply  of  lime,  pebbles  and  dust ;  4th, 
have  air  and  water,  and  5th,  the  proper  rearing  of  the  young. 

LIME,  pebbles  and  sand  or  dust  are  as  necessary  as  corn  for 
fowls.  Lime  is  necessary  for  the  formation  of  the  shell,  Fowls 
that  are  confined  often  lay  soft  eggs,  because  they  cannot  get  what 
they  want.  Slack  lime  or  old  mortar  is  good.  The  latter  acts  as 
a  natural  aid  to  the  triturating  powers  of  the  stomach.  Fowls  are 
subject  to  parasites,  and  try  to  get  rid  of  them  by  bathing  in  the 
sand  or  dust,  and  hence  the  importance  of  their  having  a  supply 
of  it  in  a  dry  state. 

MOULTING  SEASON. — Which  begins  with  September  or  the  first  fall 
month.  During  this  time  they  require  more  than  common  attention. 
They  should  be  kept  dry,  warm  and  well  fed.  Six  weeks  will  see 
the  fowl  through  his  trouble,  if  he  be  hardy  and  strong.  The  hen 
seldom  lays  during  the  moult.  Their  mate  seems  to  feel  that  he  is 
of  no  consideration. 

BREEDING  AND  COOPING  CHICKENS. — When  all  the  chicks  are 
hatched  out  they  should  be  placed  with  their  mother  under  a  coop 
in  a  warm,  dry  place.  If  two  broods  are  turned  out  at  the  same 
time,  care  must  be  taken  that  they  be  kept  separate,  for  they  get 
mixed  or  go  into  the  wrong  coop.  In  which  case  they  will  be  treated 
badly  if  not  killed  by  the  hens  into  whose  dwelling  they  have  unwit- 
tingly gone.  They  should  be  kept  under  cover  at  nightfall  and  the 
chicks  turned  loose  when  the  sun  becomes  warm.  After  being  gradu- 
ally weaned  from  soaked  bread  and  chopped  egg,  and  then  grits  or 
boiled  barley  or  samp  be  given  ;  in  8  or  i  o  days  their  stomach  will 
be  strong  enough  to  receive  bruised  barley,  wheat  or  oats,  and  at  the 
expiration  of  20  days,  if  the  chicks  be  strong  and  healthy,  they  will 
be  able  to  take  care  of  themselves.  It  is  but  to  have  a  care  over 
them  some  days  longer  and  see  that  the  older  fowls  do  not  drive 
them  away  from  their  brood.  The  most  prominent  and  fatal  cause 
of  disease  is  to  suffer  the  chicks  to  run  about  the  wet  ground  and  on 
the  damp  grass.  A  shallow  plate  of  water  should  be  placed  in  the 
coop  for  the  chicks  to  be  supplied  with  water,  tor  in  a  deep  vessel 
they  might  get  wet,  drenched  or  drowned. 

THE  BEST  WAY  TO  FATTEN  FOWLS  is  to  let  them  have  the  run  of 
the  farm  yard,  living  off  the  offal  from  the  stable  and  live  on  dairy 
scraps,  plenty  of  fresh  air  and  exercise.  Some  who  produce  the  fat- 
test and  largest  fowls  give  them  a  gruel  made  of  pot  liquor  and 
bruised  oats,  to  which  are  added  sugar,  milk  and  hog's  grease, 


WATER.  513 

WATER. 

GENERAL  HISTORY  tells  us  that  all  nations  in  the  remotest  ages 
possessed  great  veneration  for  water.  The  waters  of  the  Nile  were 
a  special  object  of  adoration  among  the  Egyptians ;  they  offered 
prayers  and  made  prayers  to  this  fertilizing  and  life-giving  stream; 
the  Scythians  worshipped  the  Danube ;  the  Persians  deemed  it  as 
sacred  for  them  to  wash  their  hands  in  the  vitalizing  fluid;  the 
Greeks  and  Romans  erected  altars  and  temples  to  their  fountains 
and  streams,  which  were  remarkable  for  their  beauty,  their  delicacy, 
and  architectural  embellishments.  They  appointed  officers  to  keep 
watch  and  ward  over  the  waters  of  their  Nile.  The  purity  of  the 
waters  was  to  them  an  object  of  special  care.  The  duty  of  these 
officers  was  to  clean  out  these  fountains  or  reservoirs,  and  to  keep 
them  in  order,  that  the  water  might  be  perfectly  pure  and  trans- 
parent. Officers  of  this  nature  were  appointed  over  all  the  Grecian 
cities.  But  the  Romans  surpassed  other  cities  in  the  splendor  of 
their  aqueducts,  which  their  extraordinary  remains  show.  More 
than  half  a  million  hogsheads  of  water  were  conveyed  daily  into 
Rome  by  more  than  10,000  small  pipes  not  1-3  of  an  inch  in  diam- 
etor.  The  water  was  received  in  large  basins,  above  which  were 
monuments  of  architectural  splendor,  and  these  basins  supplied 
other  subterranean  conduits  connected  with  various  quarters  of  the 
city,  and  there  were  small  reservoirs,  which  received  water  for  cer- 
tain streets  for  their  exclusive  use,  and  through  their  own  taps. 
There  were  also  large  pipes  to  conduct  the  water  off  from  the  city, 
which  which  was  not  drinkable.  The  basins  that  received  this 
were  in  extensive  enclosures,  and  from  which  the  cattle  were  watered. 
This  also  furnished  the  needful  supply  of  water  in  case  of  fire,  and 
here  also  the  people  washed  their  linen. 

To  PURIFY  WATER. — Throw  into  a  pail  of  water  one  or  two  pow- 
dered bitter  almonds.  They  do  not  harden  the  water  like  alum. 

DRINKING  WATER. — Persons  who  drink  little  water  will  be 
stronger  and  bear  fatigue  much  better.  Use  of  water  to  excess  is 
of  no  benefit  to  the  health.  It  effects  the  skin,  the  kidneys,  the 
bowels  and  lungs. 

To  CLEAR  WATER  IN  FIVE  MINUTES. — (Dr.  Hall.) — Put  into  a 
pail  of  water  as  much  alum,  in  powder,  as  will  rest  on  a  dime. 

To  CLARIFY  MUDDY  WATER  FOR  WASHING. — A  lump  of  alum  as 
large  as  a  hen's  egg,  dissolved  in  a  tub  of  muddy  water,  will  clear  it 
nicely  for  washing  purposes.  It  also  renders  the  clothes  less  liable 
to  take  fire ;  or,  a  handful  of  flour  or  meal  thrown  into  the  tub  of 
muddy  water  awhile  before  using  it,  say  the  night  previous.  In  the 
morning  it  will  be  found  beautifully  clear. 


514  WATER. 

To  MAKE  A  CISTERN. — A  good  one  can  be  made  in  solid  clay 
soil,  if  not  in  an  exposed  situation,  by  cementing  against  the  sides 
of  the  ground ;  where  the  ground  freezes  we  would  not  recommend 
such  a  practice,  but  lay  a  wall  of  cobble  stones  in  a  mortar  of  ce- 
ment, and  face  the  wall  with  a  thick  coat  of  clear  mortar.  Great 
care  must  be  exercised  to  get  good  cement  and  mix  it  with  coarse 
sand ;  fine  sand  will  not  do  at  all ;  three  parts  cement,  one  part 
sand,  are  the  usual  proportions,  to  be  used  as  soon  as  mixed.  Every 
part  of  the  wall  must  be  laid  below  the  reach  of  the  frost.  This  can 
be  done,  and  an  iron  or  wooden  pipe  or  throat  led  to  the  surface, 
through  which  the  pump  can  pass.  A  cheap  and  excellent  cistern 
can  be  constructed  of  wood,  in  the  form  of  a  large  cask  or  tank, 
made  of  pine  or  cedar  plank.  When  made  into  the  ground  and 
kept  constantly  wet,  it  will  last  for  years.  A  better  way  is  to  place 
the  tank  or  cask  in  the  corner  of  the  cellar,  with  a  faucet  in  the  bot- 
tom, from  which  the  water  is  easily  drawn  out,  when  it  is  desired  to 
be  cleaned  out,  and  when  water  is  required  in  the  cellar.  An  open 
cistern  in  aicellar  will  never  freeze. 

INTERNAL  USE  OF  SEA  WATER. — Dr.  Lyle,  a  celebrated  Frerfch 
physician,  says  that  besides  its  acting  as  a  useful  purgative,  sea 
water  acts  as  an  alterative  in  all  such  cases  as  are  benefited  by 
saline  mineral.  The  continual  use  increases  the  appetite,  facilitates 
digestion,  quickens  nutrition,  changes  and  augments  the  proportion 
of  red  corpuscles  in  the  blood.  Accordingly  he  recommends  it;  ist, 
during  convalescence  from  acute  diseases ;  2d,  in  the  apyretic  forms 
of  dyspepsia;  3d,  in  neurasis  (nerve),  associated  with  impoverish- 
ment of  the  blood ;  4th,  in  scrofulous  and  tuberculous  diathesis ; 
5th,  in  diabetes.  Sea  water  may  be  agreeably  administered  in 
bread,  in  the  form  of  a  syrup,  or  in  that  of  an  elixir.  Bread  made 
with  sea  water  can  only  be  procured  at  the  seaside.  It  is  very  pal- 
atable, and  contains  nearly  5  grammes  of  the  mineral  constituents 
of  the  water  in  each  pound.  The  syrup  is  prepared  by  mixing  250 
grammes  of  sea  water  with  a  sufficiency  of  sugar  and  distilled  water 
to  make  500  grammes.  Each  teaspoonful  of  the  syrtip  contains 
about  25  centigrammes  (2  3-4  grains)  of  the  saline  residue  of  sea 
water.  From  2  to  5  tablespoontuls  may  be  taken  daily.  The 
formula  for  the  elixir  is :  sea  water,  200  grammes,  sugar  and  dis- 
tilled water,  up  to  500  grammes,  The  dose  at  first,  a  tablespoonful 
3  times  a  day. 

To  MAKE  SEA  WATER  SOFT  FOR  WASHING  PURPOSES. — (Dr. 
Mitchel.) — Drop  into  the  sea  water  a  solution  of  soda  or  potash; 
this  makes  it  suitable  for  washing.  Its  milkiness  does  not  injure  it. 

PLINY  says  that  fried  barley  restores  putrified  water. 

A  FILTER  OF  POROUS  BRICK. — Some  have  one  side  of  the  cistern  of 
porous  brick,  while  the  water  enters  upon  one  side  and  percolates 


WATER.  515 

through  the  porous  brick  into  the  other  side,  a  room,  whence  it  is 
drawn  out  by  means  of  a  pump.  This  dividing  brick  wall  should 
be  so  tight  that  the  water  should  only  percolate  through  the  porous 
partition. 

CISTERNS. — Should  be  covered  above,  as  well  as  upon  the  sides 
with  water  lime  cement.  The  grand  disideratum  being  to  make  them 
entirely  impervious  to  the  entrance  of  worms,  vermins  or  insects 
of  any  kind.  Otherwise  they  become  a  fertile  source  of  disease, 
rather  than  health. 

HOT  WATER  IN  GLASSES — To  prevent  their  cracking  when  filled 
set  them  previously  on  a  cloth  wet  with  hot  water. 

To  MAKE  AN  ICE  VAULT. — Dig  a  pit  8  or  10  feet  square  and  as 
deep.  Lay  a  double  wall  with  brick;  fill  between  with  pulverized 
charcoal;  cover  the  bottom  also  double  with  the  same,  of  tan  bark. 
If  the  pit  is  filled  with  ice,  or  nearly  so,  cover  three  inches  with 
tan  bark;  but  if  only  a  small  quantity  is  in  it;  wrap  well  in  a  blan- 
ket and  over  the  opening  in  the  pit  lay  a  double  bag  of  charcoal. 
Whitewash  cellars  often. 

*  FILTER  FOR  CISTERN  WATER. — Perforate  the  bottom  of  a  wooden 
box  with  a  number  of  small  holes  ;  place  inside  a  piece  of  flannel, 
cover  with  coarsely  powdered  charcoal,  over  this  coarse  river  sand, 
and  on  this  small  pieces  of  sandstone. 

To  PREVENT  WATER  FROM  FREEZING  IN  PIPES  IN  WINTER  TIME. 
— By  tying  up  the  ball  cock  during  the  frost  the  freezing  of  the 
pipes  will  often  be  prevented ;  in  fact,  it  will  always  be  prevented 
when  the  main  pipe  is  higher  than  the  reservoir,  and  the  pipe  is  laid 
in  a  regular  inclination  from  one  to  the  other,  for  then  no  water  can 
remain  in  the  pipe ;  or  if  the  main  is  lower  than  the  cistern,  aTid 
the  pipe  regularly  inclines,  upon  the  supply's  ceasing  the  pipe  will 
immediately  exhaust  itself  into  the  main;  when  water  is  in  the  pipes 
if  each  cock  is  left  dripping,  the  circulation  oT  water  will  frequently 
prevent  the  pipes  from  being  frozen. 

WATER,  IMPURITY  OF. — Set  a  pitcher  of  ice  water  in  an  occupied 
room  ;  in  a  few  hours  it  will  absorb  nearly  all  the  gases  thrown  off 
by  perspiration  and  ompositions  in  the  room,  the  air  of  which  will 
become  purer,  but  the  water  filthy.  This  is  obvious  from  the  fact 
that  the  water  has  the  faculty  of  condensing  and  thereby  absorbing 
nearly  all  the  gases.  NOTE. — The  authoress  invariably  sets  a  large 
pitcher  of  pure  water  in  her  dormitory  every  night,  from  knowledge 
of  this  fact. 

WATER  KEPT  COOL  IN  CALIFORNIA. — Fill  a  stone  jar,  the  taller 
the  better,  with  water  at  night,  cover  the  top  with  a  piece  of  thin 
muslin ;  in  the  morning,  before  the  sun  rises,  set  the  jar  in  a  cool, 
dry  and  dark  place.  It  will  be  as  cool  as  spring  water,  and  delight- 
ful for  drinking  purposes. 


516  OLD  STYLE  OF  COOKING. 


OLD,  BUT  VALUABLE  STYLE  OF  COOKING. 

The  following  recipes  are  taken  from  an  old  cook  book  brought 
by  the  oldest  English  settlers  in  New  York  more  than  200  years  ago. 
The  book  has  not  more  than  50  leaves  remaining  (obtained  through 
the  favor  of  Mrs.  Craig,  a  very  old  lady  and  cultivated,  who  treas- 
ures it  as  an  heir-loom.  But  it  shows  that  nice  dishes  could  be  made 
in  former  times. 

A  RAGOUT  FOR  MADE  DISHES. — Take  red  wine,  gravy,  sweet 
herbs  and  spice,  in  which  lamb  kidneys  are  cut  up,  cockscombs 
boiled,  blanched  and  sliced,  with  sliced  sweet  breads,  oysters,  mush- 
room truffles  and  morsels;  thicken  these  with  browned  butter.  This 
is  convenient  to  enrich  a  ragout  of  any  sort.  Should  be  kept  close. 

A  RAGOUT  OF  EGGS. — Boil  6  eggs  hard,  then  take  large  mush- 
rooms, peel  and  scrape  them  clean,  put  them  into  a  sauce  pan  with 
a  little  salt,  cover  them,  and  let  them  boil ;  put  to  them  a  gill  of  red 
wine,  a  good  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  seasoned  with  mace  and 
nutmeg ;  let  it  boil  until  of  a  good  thickness ;  cut  the  white  of  yoijf 
eggs  round,  so  that  you  do  not  break  the  yolks;  lay  some  toasted  sip- 
pets of  bread  in  your  dish  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  then  pour  over  your 
ragout ;  garnish  your  dish  with  the  whites,  lay  the  flat  side  upper- 
most ;  a  Seville  orange  between. 

PASTRY  FOR  TARTS. — 3  pounds  of  flour,  21-2  ozs.  of  butter,  1-2 
pound  of  fine  sugar  beaten.  Rub  all  your  butter  in  the  flour,  and 
make  it  a  paste  with  cold  sweet  milk  and  2  spoonfuls  of  brandy. 

PUFF  PASTE. — -i  quart  of  flour,  i  1-2  Ibs  of  butter;  rub  1-3  part 
of  the  butter  in  the  flour;  make  paste  with  cold  water,  then  roll  out 
your  paste  and  put  your  butter  upon  it  in  bits  and  flour  it ;  then  fold 
it  up  and  roll  it  again  ;  after  this  put  in  more  butter,  sprinkle  flour 
over,  and  fold  up  again;  then  put  the  rest  of  the  butter  in,  flour  it, 
fold  it,  and  roll  it  twice  before  you  use  it. 

ROYAL  PASTE  FOR  PATTY  PANS. — Work  1-2  Ib.  of  butter  in  i  Ib. 
of  flour ;  2  ozs.  of  sugar  and  4  eggs. 

PASTE  FOR  CUSTARD. — Make  a  stiff  paste  with  boiling  water  and 
flour,  stir  well  together  until  smooth,  then  roll  out  and  sprinkle  with 
a  little  cold  water  to  prevent  it  from  cracking  ;  parboil. 

To  PREPARE  HARE  FOR  PIE. — Cut  it  in  pieces,  break  the  bones, 
and  lay  them  in  the  pie ;  lay  on  dumplings,  sliced  lemon,  butter, 
pepper,  salt  and  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs;  pour  in  the  gravy  in 
which  the  hare  was  cooked,  put  on  the  top  crust,  make  hole  with 
the  finger  in  the  top,  or  stick  it  well  with  a  fork. 

N.  B.  Chicken  and  other  fowls  may  be  used  in  this  way. 

LAMB  PIE. — Season  the  steaks  and  lay  them  in  the  pie  with  sliced 


OLD  STYLE  OF  COOKING.  517 

lamb's  kidneys  and  sweet  breads,  savory  balls  and  oysters ;  lay  on 
butter,  pepper,  salt  and  close  the  pie  with  a  top  crust  and  bake. 

MUTTON  PIE. — Parboil  the  steaks,  fill  the  pie,  lay  on  butter  and 
close  it ;  after  putting  some  of  the  water  in  which  the  mutton  steaks 
were  boiled ;  when  baked,  mix  up  a  handful  of  chopped  capers, 
cucumbers  and  oysters  with  the  remainder  of  the  stock  water, 
and  stew  a  little  until  done';  then  add  a  chopped  anchovy,  and 
drawn  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  form  a  nice  gravy. 

NOTE. — Currants  may  be  added  to  all  these  meat  pies. 

LUMBER  FOR  PIES. — i  1-2  pounds  of  fillet  of  veal  and  mince  it 
with  the  same  quantity  of  beef  suet ;  season  with  sweet  spice,  five 
pippins,  a  handful  of  spinach,  a  hard  lettuce,  thyme  and  parsley  ; 
mix  with  a  penny  loaf  .grated  and  the  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs,  white 
wine  and  flower  water;  1-2  pound  of  currants  and  any  preserves. 
When  used,  mix  up  with  cream,  butter  or  milk.  Very  convenient 
for  the  pantry  when  suddenly  wanted  to  make  up  pies. 

A  CHICKEN  PIE. — Take  6  small  chickens,  roll  a  piece  of  butter 
in  sweet  herbs,  season  and  lay  them  in  and  cover  with  the  marrow 
qf  2  bones  rolled  up  in  the  batter  of  2  eggs,  a  dozen  of  yolks  of 
eggs  boiled  hard,  and  2  dozen  of  savory  balls.  When  served,  pour 
in  a  quart  of  good  hot  gravy. 

SWEET  CHICKEN  PIE. — Break  the  bones  of  4  chickens,  then  cut 
them  into  small  pieces  ;  season  them  highly  with  mace,  cinnamon 
and  salt;  quarter  the  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs,  5  artichoke  bot- 
toms, 8  ounces  of  raisins  of  the  sun  stoned,  8  ounces  each  of  pre- 
serves, citron,  lemon  and  orange  roots ;  8  ounces  marrow,  4  slices 
lemon  without  the  peel,  currants,  50  balls  of  forced  meat,  made  as 
for  venison  pie.  Put  in  butter  at  the  bottom  of  the  pie,  then  all 
the  ingredients,  then  a  pound  of  butter,  fresh  and  sweet,  on  the  top, 
then  put  the  crust  on  and  bake  it;  then  in  a  pint  of  white  wine 
mix  a  little  brandy,  the  juice  of  2  oranges,  spices,  sugar  to  taste, 
and  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  form  a  sauce  to  eat  with  it. 

FORCEMEAT  BALLS  FOR  VENISON  PIE. — Boil  and  chop  fine  the  kid- 
neys of  venison,  then  add  their  weight  of  beef  suet,  8  firm  apples, 
1-2  Ib.  of  currants,  a  little  salt,  some  mace,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  a 
little  pepper ;  mix  it  together  and  put  it  into  a  crust.  Add  1-2  pint 
of  brandy,  the  juice  of  i  lemon  and  orange,  put  in  the  pie  ;  bake  and 
serve  hot. 

AN  EGG  PIE. — Chop  up  the  yolks  of  2  dozen  eggs  with  the  same 
quantity  of  beef  suet ;  season  with  sweet  spices,  citron,  orange  and 
lemon,  lay  on  a  buttered  crust  and  cover  it. 

MINCED  PIE. — Take  2  Ibs.  each  of  beef  suet  and  parboiled  beef 
tongue,  5  pippins,  and  a  green  lemon  peel ;  season  it  with  i  oz.  of 
spice,  a  little  salt,  i  Ib.  of  sugar,  2  Ibs.  of  currants,  1-2  pint  of  sack, 


518  DISHES  OF  ROYALTY. 

a  little  brandy,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  1-4  Ib.  citron,  lemon  and  orange 
peel;  mix  and  fill  the  pies. 

GOOD  FRITTERS. — Mix  in  flour  1-2  pint  of  thick  rich  sweet  cream; 
beat  6  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  4,  6  spoonfuls  of  sack  and 
strain  them  into  the  cream  ;  add  some  grated  nutmeg,  ginger,  cin- 
namon and  salt:  then  add  another  1-2  pint  of  cream  and  beat  the 
batter  near  an  hour.  Pare  and  slice  your  apples,  dip  every  piece  in 
the  batter  and  throw  them  into  a  pan  with  boiling  lard. 

PAN  CAKES. — One  pint  of  rich  cream,  6  spoonfuls  of  sack,  1-2  pint 
of  flour,  6  eggs,  but  only  3  whites,  i  grated  nutmeg,  1-4  Ib;  butter, 
melted,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  some  susar.  Fry  these  thin  in  a  dry 
pan. 

ICING  FOR  TARTS  200  YEARS  AGO. — Beat  and  sift  1-4  Ib.  of  loaf 
sugar  into  a  mortar  with  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  froth  ;  add 
2  spoonfuls  of  rose  water  and  beat  till  so  thick  that  it  will  just  run  ; 
always  stir  one  way ;  then  lay  this  on  the  tart  with  a  brush  or  feath- 
er dipped  in  the  icing.  Set  it  back  in  the  oven  to  harden  ;  not  too 
long,  or  it  will  dissolve  them. 

DISHES  OF  ROYALTY  MORE  THAN  100  YEARS  OLD. 

QUARTER  OF  A  LAMB  WITH  SWEET  HERBS. — Roast  a  fore-quarter 
of  a  lamb  ;  roll  a  bit  of  butter  in  flour,  some  chopped  parsley,  sha- 
lots,  thyme,  crumbs  of  bread,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  wine  with  a 
little  gravy  ;  boil  it  a  moment  or  two,  then  raise  up  the  shoulder  off 
the^ribs  and  pour  the  sauce  on  it;  clap  on  the  shoulder  and  serve. 

TURKEY,  ROASTED. — Make  a  stuffing  with  some  chopped  ham, 
lard,  an  anchovy  or  two,  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt ;  nutmeg 
and  lemon  peel  to  taste,  some  hard  boiled  eggs,  some  oysters ;  mix 
all  well  together  with  some  raw  eggs,  stuff  the  crop  of  the  turkey  and 
roast  it,  with  a  buttered  paper  on  its  breast,  for  i  1-2  hours;  serve 
with  gravy. 

BOILED  CHICKEN  AND  OYSTER  SAUCE. — Put  your  fine,  young  and 
fat  chickens  into  a  fine  cloth  or  bag:  boil  them  25  minutes.  Then 
stew  some  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  with  some  black  pepper  and 
salt ;  roll  a  large  piece  of  butter  in.  some  flour,  mix  smoothly,  then 
stir  well  till  melted  in  the  oyster  liquor.  Put  .the  chickens  hot  in  a 
dish,  pour  the  liquor  over  them  and  serve  hot, 

MINCED  KIDNEYS. — Stew  them  till  tender,  then  -chop  them  fine  ; 
then  slice  some  cucumbers  thin,  one  hour  before  you  dress  them, 
put  them  in  a  sieve,  slice  your  onions,  pepper  and  salt  them,  fry  them 
in  a  bit  of  butter,  browned;  then  drain  them  from  the  fat,  wipe  the 
pan  and  put  in  the  onions  and  cucumbers  with  a  little  gravy  and  a 
little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice;  let  them  stew  till  tender,  but  flour  them 


DISHES  OF  ROYALTY.  $19 

when  you  put  them  in  the  pan.     Serve  the  kidneys  in  it ;  make  it 
pretty  relishing  and  tart  with  vinegar. 

LEGS  OF  FOWLS  LIKE  PEARS. — Bone  the  legs  of  2  fowls  to  the 
stumps,  stuff  each  round  like  a  pear,  with  a  stuffing  made  of  both 
livers,  scalded  sweet  breads,  truffles,  mushrooms,  minced  fat  bacon 
or  pork,  a  little  wine,  pepper  and  salt.  When  done,  serve  hot  with 
any  rich  sauce  you  like. 

To  PRESERVE  BACON  FROM  RUST. — After  the  bacon  has  been  salt- 
ed about  15  days,  put  it  into  a  box  the  size  of  the  pieces  of  bacon, 
covering  the  bottom  of  the  box  with  hay,  wrap  each  piece  of  bacon 
in  hay  and  between  each  put  a  layer  of  hay.  This  will  keep  it  sweet 
for  a  year.  Try  it. 

EASAU'S  PULSE  OR  MESS  OF  POTTAGE. — Take  the  best  lantiles, 
(Italian),  boil  them  in  water,  drain  them  ;  then  stew  them  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  chopped  parsley  and  a  bit  of  butter ;  when  done,  add 
a  yolk  or  two  of  eggs,  some  cream,  nutmeg  and  gravy.  Season,  then 
serve  them  hot. 

BAKED  PEARS.— Delicious. — Take  the  largest  pears  you  can  get, 
pare  them,  lay  them  in  a  pan  with  some  brown  sugar,  cloves  and 
cinnamon.  When  the  pan  is  full,  take  some  sweet  rich  perry,  the 
newer  the  better,  fill  the  pan  with  it  and  place  them  together  in  a 
slow  oven  ;  if  a  week  the  bettter.  Serve  them  when  you  want  them 
with  a  little  of  the  liquor. 

WELLS. — Take  the  largest  and  soundest  onions  (white  the  best), 
hollow  them,  but  not  cut  through,  scald  them  in  hot -water,  drain 
them ;  then  make  a  forcemeat  of  mixed  sweetmeats,  mushrooms, 
truffles,  oysters,  minced  ham  or  side,  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  two  or 
three  yolks  of  eggs  ;  mix  all  thoroughly  together :  fill  the  onion  with 
it,  put  some  butter  in.  Bake  i  1-2  hours  ;  serve  them  up  with  any 
sauce  you  like. 

FRITTERS. — Cut  in  large  squares  some  sound,  rich  apples,  have 
ready  some  thick  batter,  dip  them  in,  then  fry  them  in  boiling  lard, 
which  should  be  boiling  when  put  in ;  drop  the  battered  apples 
in  and  fry  them  a  light  brown;  dish  them,  then  sift  powdered  white 
sugar  over  them. 

SNOWBALLS.— Scald  some  pippins,  peel  them,  roll  them  in  nee  all 
over  pretty  thick,  tie  them  in  a  fine  rag,  boil  them  half  an  hour  till 
soft,  turn  them  out,  put  in  a  bowl  melted  butter  and  sugar  (sauce) 
to  eat  with  them. 

SAI.LOR  SAUSAGES — Fry  the  desired  quantity  of  onions  m  butter, 

,  with  some  garlic,  thyme,  shallots,  laurel,  parsley   and  cloves  till  ten- 

'  der  ;  take  out  the  thyme,  pour  in  a  pint  of  red  wine,  sprinkle  in  a 

little  flour,  make  it  boil,  then  put  in  any  kind  of  sausages  you  like ; 

stew  till  done  and  the  sauce  reduced ;  skim  off  the  fat,  add  an  an- 


52O  DISHES  OF  ROYALTY. 

chovy,  some  capers  or  nasturtium  berries,  some  lemon  juice ;  serve 
and  garnish  the  dish  with  fried  bread. 

ROYAL  LOAVES. — Take  out  the  crumbs  of  some  French  loaves,  fill 
them  with  almond  custard,,  made  in  this  fashion :  Scald  a  pint  of 
cream  with  some  laurel  leaves,  put  on  it  some  fine  white  sugar  and 
some  rose  water,  take  five  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  strain  all  to- 
gether, put  on  the  fire,  boil  it  till  thick,  but  keep  stirring  it  one  way 
all  the  time ;  when  it  is*  done,  and  almost  cold,  add  some  beaten 
blanched  almonds,  with  two  spoonfuls  of  brandy  ;  when  you  have 
filled  your  rolls  with  custard,  lay  over  them  some  raspberry  jam ; 
beat  the  white  of  an  egg  and  pulverized  sugar  to  a  froth,  and  ice 
them  over  with  it,  and  serve  in  a  dish. 

STUFFING  FOR  GOOSE. — Make  forcemeat  with  the  liver;  some 
chestnuts  whole,  sausage  meat,  chopped  parsley,  thyme,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Stew  them  together  with  some  butter,  stuff  the  goose  with 
it,  roast  it  a  nice  brown,  and  serve  with  a  rich  gravy. 

CARP  BLUE. — After  the  carp  is  cleaned,  pour  over  it  2  or  3  glasses 
of  boiling  water  to  turn  it  blue,  tie  it  up  in  a  linen  cloth,  put  it  in  a 
stew  pan  with  some  red  wine,  1-3  water,  onion,  carrot,  shalots,  cloves, 
some  lemon,  thyme,  pepper  and  salt,  with  a  liberal  quantity  of  but- 
ter. Season  it  high.  Serve  your  carp  with  a  napkin ;  serve  the 
sauce,  strained,  in  a  boat. 

RUSSIAN  TuRN-OvERS.-Make  a  nice  filling  with  good  fresh  smoked 
ham  (a  streak  of  fat  and  a  streak  of  lean),  mix  this  with  onions,  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt,  then  roll  a  rich  bread  dough  thin,  and  then 
cut  with  a  bowl  the  size  of  a  saucer,  or  as  large  as  you  wish  it ;  this 
is  the  filling ;  then  put  this  on  one  side  and  turn  the  other  over  and 
pinch  the  crust  down  like  fruit  turn-overs ;  then  have  well  b&aten 
eggs  and  rub  over  them,  and  bake  quickly. 

SAUCE  FOR  POACHED  EGGS. — Pepper,  salt,  ginger  and  some  pars- 
ley and  shalots  chopped  fine,  with  some  broth  or  water,  a  bit  of  but- 
ter stirred  in  flour,  and  a  little  wine ;  boil  this  a  moment,  then 
add  the  juice  of  a  sour  orange  and  pour  over  a  dish  of  poached 
eggs. 

EGG  PLUM  PUDDING. — Take  the  desired  number  of  egg  plums 
that  are  sound  and  plump;  make  a  rich  crust  of  suet  and  flour,  roll 
out  the  crust,  put  in  the  plums,  then  close  it  together,  then  sew  it 
up  in  a  pudding  bag  and  boil  for  4  hours.  Turn  it  out  and  cut  off 
a  piece  at  the  top  and  rub  into  it  a  mixture  of  butter  and  sugar,  or 
serve  them  hot  as  a  sauce  for  it. 

TURNIP  RAGOUT. — Boil  your  turnips,  then  stew  them  in  gravy 
which  thicken  with  a  little  pepper,  butter  and  flour.  Serve  all  to- 
gether. 


GAME  OF  CROQUET.  521 


GAME  OF  CROQUET. 

CROQUET. — This  outdoor  pastime  is  of  comparatively  modern  crea- 
tion, and  is  every  day  becoming  more  in  vogue.  It  may  be  played 
by  persons  of  all  ages  and  of  either  sex;  but  it  is  especially  adapted 
to  ladies  and  young  persons,  as  it  demands  but  trifling  personal  execu- 
tion, while  it  affords  delightful  and  health-giving  sport.  The  grounds 
upon  which  croquet  is  played,  is  preferably  a  grass  plot  of  an  oblong 
form;  but  an  ordinary  lawn  or  expanse  of  even  both  will  answer  the 
purpose,  so  long  as  it  is  of  sufficient  extent  for  the  operations  of 
the  game.  The  implements  for  playing  croquet,  are  the  balls,  the 
mallets,  the  striking  and  turning  pegs,  the  croquet  clips  or  mark- 
ers, the  hoops  or  arches. 

Arrangement  of  the  hoops. — As  much  of  the  interest  of  this 
game  depends  upon  the  arrangement  of  the  hoops,  it  is  expected 
that  they  should  be  fixed  in  the  ground  on  definite  principles.  In 
the  first  place,  the  starling  peg  is  driven  in  at  one  end  of  the  ground, 
and  the  turning  peg  driven  in  at  the  other  extremity.  From  each  of 
these  pegs  a  space  of  twelve  feet  intervenes;  here  a  hoop  is  fixed;  an- 
other space  of  ten  feet  intervenes,  when  a  second  hop  is  fixed;  a  space 
of  eight  feet  then  succeeds,  and  at  this  point  is  formed  what  may  be 
termed  the  base,  on  each  side  of  which,  at  a  distance  of  twenty  feet 
and  succeeding  each  other  at  intervals  of  ten  feet,  three  hoops  are 
driven  in.  By  this  arrangement,  a  square  is  formed,  the  starting  peg 
leading  into  its  centre,  and  the  turning  peg  leading  from  it.  When 
the  ground  is  small,  the  distance  may  be  contracted  proportionally. 
Other  arrangements  of  the  hoops  may  be  made  at  the  discretion 
of  the  players,  but  the  first-named  plan  will  be  found  best  worthy  of 
adoption,  as  it  affords  the  most  excellent  apportunities  for  the  dis- 
play of  address  and  skill. 

The  game  consists  in  striking  the  balls  from  the  starting  peg, 
through  the  several  hoops,  to  the  peg  at  the  opposite  extremity. 
The  balls  are  then  driven  back  again  to  the  starting  peg. 

The  game  may  be  played  by  any  number  of  persons  not  exceeding 
eight.  A  larger  number  protracts  the  intervals  between  the  several 
turns,  and  thereby  renders  the  game  tedious.  The  most  eligible 
number  is  four.  If  two  only  play,  each  player  should  take  two  balls, 
and  when  as  many  as  eight  play,  there  should  be  two  sides  or  sets. 

In  playing  the  game,  each  player  takes  a  mallet,  ball,  and  croquet 
clip  of  the  same  color  or  number,  the  clip  being  used  to  indicate 
the  hoop  at  which,  in  his  turn,  he  aims.  The  division  into  sides, 
choice  of  balls,  mallets,  etc.,  is  determined  by  the  players  among 
themselves. 


522  GAMB  OF  CROQUET. 

LAWS  OF  THE  GAME — In  croquet,  as  in  many  other  sports  when 
first  established,  there  existed  differences  of  opinion  on  certain 
points  of  practice. 

i st.  On  commencing,  each  player  must  place  his  ball  within  a 
mallet's  length  of  the  starting  peg  in  any  direction,  and  his  opening 
stroke  must  be  to  pass  through  the  first  hoop. 

ad.  The  players  on  each  side  are  to  play  alternately,  accord- 
ing to  the  colors  on  the  starting  peg,  and  the  order  in  which  they 
play  cannot  be  altered  during  the  game. 

3d.  Each  player  continues  to  play  as  long  as  he  plays  with  suc- 
cess, that  is,  so  long  as  he  drives  his  ball  through  the  next  hoop  in 
order  or  croquets  another  ball. 

4th.  When  a  player  strikes  his  own  ball  so  as  to  hit  another  at 
a  distance,  he  is  said  to  roquet  it,  and,  having  thus  hit  a  ball,  he 
must  then,  as  it  is  termed,  "take  the  croquet,"  which  is  done  as 
follows:  He  lays  his  own  ball,  which  he  strikes  with  his  mallet; 
this  will  drive  the  ball  with  a  momentum  and  in  a  direction  most 
desired.  In  doing  this  the  player  should  press  his  foot  on  his  own 
ball. 

5th.  A  player  must  move  the  ball  he  croquets.  He  is  said  to 
"take  a  stroke  off,"  when  he  places  his  own  ball  to  touch  the  cro- 
queted ball,  only  lightly,  so  as  to  leave  it,  when  croqueted,  in 
nearly  the  same  position;  but  in  doing  this  the  croqueted  ball  must 
be  preceptibly  moved. 

6th.  No  ball  can  croquet,  or  be  croqueted  until  it  has  passed 
through  the  first  hoop.  7th.  Any  player  missing  the  first  hoop  takes 
his  ball  up,  and,  when  his  turn  comes  again,  plays  from  the  starting 
place,  as  at  first.  8th.  A  player  may  croquet  any  number  of  balls 
consecutively;  but  he  cannot  croquet  the  same  ball  twice  during  the 
same  turn,  without  first  sending  his  own  ball  through  the  next  hoop 
in  order,  pth.  Instead  of  aiming  at  his  hoop  or  another  ball,  a 
player  may  strike  his  ball  towards  any  part  of  the  ground  he  pleases. 
When  he  has  made  a  complete  circuit  from  the  starting  peg  back 
to  the  starting  peg,  he  may  either  retire  from  the  game  by  pegging, 
or,  by  not  doing,  remain  in.  In  this  case  he  is  called  a  "rover,"  and 
will  have  the  power  of  croqueting  comsecutively  all  the  balls  during 
any  one  of  his  turns.  loth.  When  a  ball  croquets  another  ball,  the 
player's  ball  is  "dead,"  and  "in  hand,"  until  after  the  player  of  it  has 
taken  the  croquet.  Hence  it  follows  that  if  it  continues  from  one 
ball  to  another,  or  from  a  ball  through  its  own  ho©p,  or  from  a  ball 
on  to  either  of  the  pegs,  none  of  these  subsequent  strokes  count  any- 
thing. If,  however,  a  player  corner  off  a  ball,  which  in  the  same 
turn  he  has  croqueted  and  then  runs  off  it  and  makes  a  stroke  that 
stroke  counts,  nth.  A  player  whose  ball  is  roqueted  or  croqueted 


THE  HAIR.  523 

through  its  hoop  in  order,  counts  the  hoop.     izth.     A  player  must 
hit  his  ball  fairly— not  push  it.     A  ball  is  considered  to  be  tairly  hit 
when  the  sound  of  the  stroke  is  heard.     A  ball  is  "pushed"  when  the 
force  of  the  mallet  is  allowed  to  rest  against  it,  and  the  ball  propell- 
ed without  the  mallet  being  drawn  back.     1 3th.  A   player  may  play 
in  attitude,  and  use  his  mallet  with  his  hands  in  any  way  he  Pleases, 
so  that  he  strike  the  ball  with  the  force  of  the  mallet.     1 4th.  When 
the  ball  of  a  player  hits  the  starting  peg,  after  he  has  been  through 
all  the  hoops,  whether  by   his  own  play,  or  by   being   roqueted 
(subject  to  the  provisions  in  law  loth),  or  by  being  croqueted,  he  is 
out  of  the  game,  which  goes  on  without  him,  his  turn  being  omitted. 
1 5th    The  clip  is  placed  on  the  hoop  through   which  the  player  i 
next  going      The  clips  are  to  be  changed  by  the  umpire,  and  are 
decisive  as  to  the  position  of   a  player's  ball;  but  if  the  umpire 
forget  to  change    a  clip,  any  player  may  remind  him    before 
next  stroke.     Should  there  be  no  clip,  a  player  is  entitled  to  asl 
any  of  the  players  how  he  stands  in  the  game.     i6th.    A  player 
stops  at  the  peg,  that  is,  having  struck  the  turning  peg  in  order, 
his  turn  is  at  an  end,  and  even  though  he  should  roquet  off  the 
peg,  it  does  not  count.     When    his  turn  comes  round  again,   he 
plays  his  ball  from  the  spot  it  rolled  to  after  pegging,     i/th.  A  b; 
is    considered  to  have  passed  through    its    hoop  if  it    cannot  I 
touched  by  the  handle  of  the  mallet,  laid  on  the  ground  from  wire 
to  wire  on  the  side  from  which  the  ball  passed.     i8th.  The  ; 
of  the  umpire  is  final.     His  duties  are  to  move  the  clips;  to  decide 
when  balls  are  fairly  struck;  to  restore  balls   to   their  places   whicl 
have  been  disturbed  by  accident;  and  to  decide  whether  a  croquet, 
ed  ball  is  moved  or  not,  in  doubtful  cases. 

TERMS  USED  IN  THE  GAME.— Roquet.— To  hit  another  ball  wit! 
one's  own.     Croquet.— To  strike  one's  own  ball  when  in   contact 
with  a  roqueted  ball.     Mixed.— To  have  the  ball  in  such  a  position 
that  a  hoop  prevents  the  stake  which  is  wished  to  be  made_     .Peg. 
—To  "peg"  is  to  strike  either  of  the  pegs  in  proper  order.    J 
—To  dismiss  a  ball  is  to  croquet  it  to  a  distance. 

THE  HAIR. 

TREATMENT  OF  THE  HAIR.— Grease  in  all  its  varieties,  is  no  stimu- 
lant though- it  aids  the  growth  by  allowing  the  hair  to  escape  from 
its  follicles.  Whatever  is  a  stimulant  to  the  skin  has  a  similar  effect 
upon  the  hair,  the  vessels  ot  the  skin  itself  and  of  the  hair  follicles 
being  closely  connected.  Hence  it  is  that  whatever  blisters  the 
skin  will,  in  a  less  dose,  stimulate  the  hair  follicle  to  secretion,  such, 
as  canth'arides,  turpentine  or  ammonia.  Soap  is  generally  injurious 


5*4 


THE  HAIR. 


from  its  removal  of  the  oily  matter  of  the  hair;  but  in  some  cases, 
when  there  is  a  quantity  of  old  and  tough  epidermis  matted  with  the 
contents  of  the  srebaceous  follicles,  and  obstructing  the  growth  of 
the  hair,  nothing  else  will  liberate  it  from  this  injurious  thraldom. 
Whenever  it  is  likely  that  plenty  of  water  is  to  be  employed  for 
young  children  ;  soap  should  never  be  used,  but  it  would  be  rather 
beneficial  than  otherwise,  if  it  is  not  used  every  day,  for  it  will  only 
remove  enough  of  these  impeding  materials  without  entirely  de- 
stroying the  secretion  of  the  oily  matter  in  rendering  the  hair  too 
dry  and  brittle.  With  proper  cleanliness  the  hair  ought  never  to  be 
touched  with  soap,  egg,  or  any  other  solvent  oil.  Yet,  if  this  daily 
washing  is  not  practiced,  and  in  the  long  hair  of  ladies  it  can  scarcely 
be,  an  occasional  washing  with  the  yolk  of  eggs  is  beneficial. 
Friction,  when  not  too  violent,  is  very  efficacious,  and  ranks  next  to 
ablution,  and  acts  in  the  same  way,  but  when  employed  through 
the  medium  of  very  penetrating  stiff  brush  or  or  a  sharp-toothed 
comb,  causes  the  fine  skin  to  become  inflamed,  because  left  bare 
of  its  covering.  The  brush  ought  to  be  pushed  into  the  hair  at 
an  angle  with  the  surface  of  the  skin,  and  not  driven  into  it  in  a 
perpendicular  manner;  not  more  than  enough  to  raise  the  loose 
particles  of  epidermis.  It  should  be  perfectly  understood  that  the 
cure  is  in  the  hand,  and  not  in  the  brush.  Plain  water  or  fric- 
tion are  the  only  means  necessary  to  keep  the  hair  in  a  healthy 
state,  but  a  neglected  scalp  may  require  soap  or  yolk  of  eggs. 

THE  BEST  stimulants  to  the  growth  of  the  hair  are  turpentine 
and  cantharides,  or  Eau  de  Cologne,  2  ounces;  tincture  of  can- 
tharides,  2  drachms ;  oil  of  lavender  or  rosemary,  of  each,  10 
drops.  These  applications  must  be  used  once  or  twice  a  day  for 
a  considerable  time;  but  if  the  scalp  becomes  sore,  they  must  be  dis- 
continued for  a  time,  or  used  at  longer  intervals.  By  these  means, 
whenever  the  bulb  is  not  actually  diseased;  and  so  long  as  there  is 
any  hair  left,  however  fine,  it  may  be  made  to  enlarge  by  the  in- 
creased flow  of  blood  transmitted  to  the  follicles,  and  in  this  way 
many  apparently  helpless  cases  have  recovered.  With  regard  to 
the  oily  matter  required  by  the  hair,  it  should  be  of  such  a  nature 
as  not  to  become  solid  in  the  open  air,  but  to  remain  in  a  liquid 
state.  Vegetable  oils  are  so  volatile  that  they  rapidly  lose  their 
fluidity,  so  that  in  a  short  time  the  hair  is  in  a  worse  condition  than 
before  using  the  oil,  because  it  is  no  longer  moistened,  and  a  fresh 
layer  of  slickly,  pasty  matter  is  formed.  If  oils  are  used  at  all,  they 
should  be  composed  of  animal  fats.  Beef's  foot  oil,  seasoned  with 
any  favorite  essential  oil  (all  of  which  are  more  or  less  stimulating), 
is  a  most  valuable  addition  to  the  toilet.  Olive  oil  and  almond  oil, 
even  when  mixed  with  hard  animal  fat,  are  too  drying  in  their  nature 


THE  HAIR.  525 

for  the  hair.  But  pure  lard,  prepared  at  home,  is  by  no  means  ob- 
jectionable. Mixed  i  pound  of  lard  and  1-2  oz.  canthardies. 
Suet  is  too  hard,  but  may  be  mixed  with  any  of  the  animal  oils  to 
advantage  to  form  a  pomade. 

CUTTING  the  hair,  whether  with  scissors  or  razor,  appears  to  ac- 
celerate its  growth,  but  in  which  way  it  is  difficult  to  explain,  but  it 
does  improve  the  length  and  strength,  and  should  be  repeated  at 
short  intervals,  if  only  to  remove  the  split  ends,  or  rather  to  avoid 
them. 

DEPILATORIES,  intended  to  remove  superfluous  hairs  by  chemical 
means,  are  sold  by  unprincipled  persons  who  well  know  their  want 
of  power.  Nothing  but  the  tweezers  have  the  slightest  effect,  and 
the  man  who  could  succeed  by  less  painful  means  would  soon  realize 
a  fortune,  I  give  a  remedy  which  I  found  in  a  book  of  recipes  pub- 
lished nearly  a  hundred  years  ago,  which  is  as  simple  as  it  is  effec- 
tual in  aiding  to  extract  superfluous  hairs. 

To  TAKE  HAIR  OUT  BY  THE  ROOTS. — Two  and  one-half  ounces  of 
resin,  i  ounce  of  beeswax ;  melt  them  together  and  make  into 
sticks  for  use ;  warm  the  end  and  paste  it  over  the  hair,  and  then 
with  the  tweezers  or  fingers  remove  the  foe  to  beauty. 

HAIR  WASHES  are  used  for  removing  the  waxy  dust  which  has  ac- 
cumulated on  the  scalp  and  in  the  hair,  and  eradicating  dandruff, 
and  should  be  washed  off  with  soft,  warm  water  after  each  applica- 
tion, if  used  more  than  once. 

ROSEMARY  EXTRACT. — Carbonate  of  potash,  i  ounce;  alcohol,  8 
ounces ;  oil  of  rosemary,  2  drachms ;  water,  i  gallon ;  colored  with 
burnt  sugar,  and  filtered. 

ARNICA  HAIR  WASH.— When  the  hair  is  falling  off  and  be- 
coming thin  from  frequent  use  of  castor,  maccassar  oils,  &c.,  or 
when  premature  baldness  arises  from  illness,  the  arnica  hair  wash 
will  be  found  of  great  service  in  arresting  the  mischief.  It  is  thus 
prepared:  Take  elder  water,  1-2  pint;  sherry  wine,  1-2  pint;  tinc- 
ture of  arnica,  1-2  ounce ;  alcoholic  ammonia,  i  drachm  ;  if  this 
last  named  ingredient  is  old  and  has  lost  its  strength,  then  2 
drachms  instead  of  i  may  be  employed.  The  whole  of  these  may 
be  mixed  in  a  lotion  bottle,  and  applied  to  the  head  every  night 
with  a  sponge.  Wash  the  head  with  warm  water  twice  a  week. 
Soft  brushes  only  must  be  used  during  the  growth  of  the  young 
hair. 

WASH  FOR  THE  HAIR. — One-third  each  of  bay  rum,  glycerine  and 
water.  Wash  the  hair  with  it,  and  comb  often. 

A  WASH  TO  STIMULATE  THE  GROWTH  OF  THE  HAIR.— ("Ugly 
Girl.") — Sulphate  of  quinine  and  aromatic  tincture,  equal  parts. 

How  TO  WASH  THE  HAIR. — Borax  and  camphor  cleanse  the 
beautifully,  and  render  it  rich  and  glossy. 


526  THE 

FOR  CLEANSING  THE  SCALP,  OR  SHAMPOOING. — Dissolve  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  borax  in  a  tea  cup  full  of  hot  water.  Apply  the  liquid  to 
the  scalp  and  rub  hard  until  a  good  lather  is  produced,  then  rinse 
with  cold  water  until  the  hair  feeis  natural ;  wipe  the  hair  dry  be- 
fore combing.  Avoid  using  ammonia  and  other  dangerous  irritants. 
Before  bathing  in  the  morning,  put  one  teasponful  this  water  into  your 
basin ;  it  will  cure  blotches  of  the  face,  removing  prickly  heat  and 
freckles  caused  by  summer  heat. 

WASH  TO  CLEANSE  THE  HAIR  OF  GROWN-UP  PERSONS. — One  ta- 
blespoonful  of  liquid  ammonia,  i  pint  of  water ;  pour  a  small  por- 
tion on  the  hair  at  a  time  and  rub  it  in,  then  wash  it  in  clear,  warm 
water  and  mild  soap ;  wipe  until  dry.  Bottle  it  and  apply  when 
needed. 

POMADES. 

IN  preparing  pomades  it  is  always  best  to  make  the  lard  directly 
from  the  green  leaf;  it  is  best  in  winter ;  try  it  in  a  porcelain  or 
preserving  kettle  over  a  steady  and  slow  fire,  taking  care  that  it  does 
not  burn ;  when  melted,  add  to  i  pound  of  lard  a  pinch  of  finely 
powdered  alum,  a  good  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  gill  of  water ;  bring 
the  whole  to  a  boiling  point,  keep  up  the  heat  5  or  10  minutes,  stir- 
ring with  a  wooden  spoon  all  the  time ;  if  any  scum  forms,  remove 
it,  then  allow  the  lard  to  get  cold;  at  the  bottom  some  impurities, 
with  the  alum  and  salt,  will  be  found,  which  can  be  removed ;  the 
lard  must  be  put  back  with  a  small  portion  of  water  and  one  small 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  when  the  lard  is  melted ;  after  stirring  it  a  few 
minutes,  it  can  be  set  aside  to  cool;  care  should  be  taken  to  expel 
all  the  moisture,  for  if  any  be  left  it  in  the  lard  it  will  soon  turn  ran- 
cid ;  no  perfume  should  be  added  until  the  lard  is  nearly  cold,  oth- 
erwise they  are  changed  by  the  heat,  and  others  entirely  dissipated. 
When  poured  into  bottles,  it  is  best  for  it  to  be  as  cool  as  it  can  well 
be ;  if  hot.  a  vacuum  is  formed  in  the  center  on  account  of  the  con- 
traction which  takes  place  on  cooling.  The  jars  or  bottles  should 
be  moderately  warm.  Add  a  drop  or  two  on  the  top  of  the  lard  of 
the  desired  perfume. 

To  MAKE  POMADE  FOR  THE  HAIR. — One-quarter  pound  of  lard, 
1-2  pint  of  castor  oil;  scent.  Let  the  lard  be  unsalted;  beat  it  up 
well,  then  add  the  castor  oil  and  mix  thoroughly  with  a  knife,  adding 
a  few  drops  of  any  scent  that  may  be  preferred.  Put  the  pomatum 
into  pots,  which  keep  well  covered,  to  preserve  it  from  turning 
rancid, 

POMADE  A  LA  JONQUILLE. — Inodorous  lard,  i  pound;  vanilla,  1-2 
pound;  musk,  1-2  pound;  oil  bergamot,  i  ounce;  attar  of  roses,  10 
drops ;  oil  neroli,  i  drachm. 


T HE  HAIR.  S27 

CRYSTALLINE  PALMA  CHRISTI  POMADE.— In  summer  take  4  ounces 
of  spermacetti,  in  winter  take  3  ounces,  melt  with  a  moderate  heat, 
and  pour  in  gradually  10  ounces  of  castor  oil,  remove  n    from  U 
fire  and  then  add  10  ounces  of  almond  or  olive  oil,     The  pertume 
should  not  be  put  in  till  nearly  cold,  that  is,  the  oil  of  lemon,  1-2 
ounce;  oil  of  orange,  1-4  ounce;  oil  of  bergamot,   1-2   ounce;  or 
attar  of  roses,  30  drops  ;  oil  of  verbena,  30  drops ;  oil  of  < 
1-4  ounce ;  colored  to  suit  the  taste. 

GLYCERINE  POMADE.— Four  ounces  of  almond  oil,  1-2  ounce  vir- 
gin wax,  and  1-2  ounce  glycerine  (pure).     Melt  the  wax,  then  stir  ir 
the  oil  and  glycerine  ;  finally,  perfume  as  desired, 
excellent  pomade  for  dressing  the  hair. 

THE  EYEBROWS  AND  EYELASHES. 

To  THICKEN  THE  EvEBRows.Rub  them  several  times  a  day  with 
an  infusion  of  mint  in  white  wine,  or  moisten  them  with  a  lotion  oj 
5  grains  of  sulphate  of  quinine  in  i  ounce  of  alcohol. 

COLORING  FOR  THE   EYEBROWS,  EYELASHES  AND  HAIR.  —  . 
an  ounce  of  walnut  bark  or  the  hulls  of  the  nut  before  they  dry,  in 
two  cups  of  water  for  an  hour,  then  add  a  lump  of  alum  the  size  ot 
a  filbert  to  set  the  dye  ;  then  apply  with  a  camel  hair  brush  to  tl 
eyelashes,  or  brows,  and  with  a  larger  brush  or  sponge  to  the  hair 
Be  careful  not  to  wet  the  pillow  cases  and  bed  clothing  ;  to  prevent 
this  wrap  the  head  up  well.     This  dye  is  perfectly  harmless. 

To  BLACKEN  THE  EYEBROWS.— Pencil  them  with  the  charred  em 

of  a  match.  T-    1  •  v. 

FOR  COLORING  THE  EYEBROWS  AND  LASHES  used  by  the 
ladies.     Dilute  antimony  with  spirits  mixed  with  powdered  nutga  Is, 
gum  and  wax,  perfumed  highly  with  musk  or  rose  oil.       t  is  also 
made  into  a  paste  for  dying  the  hair.     Let  a  druggist  prepare  it  fc 

FOR  THE  GROWTH  OF  THE  EYELASHES.— (Harper's  Bazaar.)— Five 
grains  of  the  sulphate  of  quinine  in  an  ounce  of  sweet  oil  is  the  best 
prescription;  put  on  the  roots  of  the  lashes  with  the  most  delicate 
hair  pencil.  Do  not  touch  tne  lashes  with  the  finger,  for  it  irritates 

tVic  cvc 

To  INCREASE  THE  LENGTH  AND  BEAUTY  OF  THE  EYELASHES.- 
Clip  them  once  a  month,  taking  care  not  to  cut  them  short. 

HAIR  OILS. 

DIAMOND  HAIR  OIL  AND  TONIC.— Good  for  the  scalp  and  nice 
for  the  hair:  Castor  oil,  8  ozs.;  tincture  of  blood  root,  i  oz.;  can- 
tharides,  i  oz.;  oil  of  bergamot,  i  oz.;  alcohol,  i  quart. 

OAKLAND  HAIR  OIL.— Castor  oil,  1-2  pint;  creamed  lard,  o 


528  THE  HAIR. 

ive,  or  almond  oil,  6  gills ;  color,  perfume,  and  mix  to  suit.  This 
oil  does  not  congeal  in  cold  weather ;  alkanet  is  generally  used  for 
coloring  a  beautiful  red,  turmeric  for  lemon  color,  and  armanetto  for 
coloring  orange. 

COCOANUT  OIL — Is  good  for  the  hair,  provided  it  be  new  and 
fresh. 

PALM  OIL  is  also  fine  for  the  hair ;  its  odor  is  pleasant,  resem- 
bling violets,  and  is  a  fine  addition  to  pomades ;  turmeric  will  give 
it  a  lemon  color. 

ITALIAN  HAIR  OIL. — Mix  castor  oil,  i  pint,  with  half  pint  Ja- 
maica rum,  and  perfume  with  any  essential  oil  to  fancy. 

ANTIQUE  HUB  OIL. — Oils  of  sweet  almonds  and  olive,  each  1-2 
pint ;  the  oils  should  be  the  best ;  scent  with  any  sort  of  perfume ; 
use  any  coloring ;  put  into  a  bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

MACASSAR  OIL. — One  pint  of  olive  oil,  3  ozs.  alcohol,  1-4  oz.  of 
rose  oil ;  free  from  dust  chipped  alkanet  root  (which  can  be  had 
from  a  druggist  for  a  few  cents),  1-2  an  ounce ;  divide  it  into  3  or  4 
muslin  or  bobbinet  bags,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  oil  until  a  pretty 
bright  red  or  crimson  is  developed,  then  change  them  to  other  oil, 
as  the  bags  can  be  used  again  for  the  same  purpose,  put  into  the 
bottom  of  each  phial  a  small  quantity  of  any  perfume  that  you  may 
fancy,  such  as  the  oil  of  bergamot,  orange  flowers,  rose,  jessamine, 
&c.,  mixed  with  a  little  tincture  of  musk  ;  do  not  press  the  chipped 
alkanet  root,  nor  shake  the  bottle  when  you  use  the  oil,  but  pour  a 
small  portion  into  a  flat  vessel  or  saucer,  and  with  your  finger  rub  it 
through  the  roots  of  the  hair. 

BEARS'  GREASE. — Not  being  a  commercial  article,  it  requires 
a  quantity  of  perfume  to  counterbalance  the  unpleasant  odor,  but 
the  genuine  oil  can  be  counterfeited,  and  is  just  as  good  in  quality, 
if  not  better,  for  the  hair.  Good,  fresh  and  sweet  lard,  i  pound ; 
beef  suet,  4  ounces ;  melt  the  suet,  then,  according  to  the  heat  of 
the  weather,  add  from  4  to  8  ounces  of  castor  oil  or  olive  oil,  then 
add  the  lard ;  triturate  till  nearly  cold,  then  vary  to  suit  the  fancy, 
or  in  the  following  proportions:  oil  of  bergamot,  i  ounce;  oil  of 
lavender,  1-2  an  ounce;  oil  of  cloves,  10  drops;  pour  into  bottle  or 
jar ;  cork  tightly. 

COLORING  THE  HAIR. — A  French  Recipe — (The  ugly  girl  papers. ) 
— Melt  together  in  a  bowl  set  in  boiling  water,  4  ozs.  of  white  wax  in 
4  ozs  of  olive  oil,  stirring  in  when  melted  and  mixed,  2  ozs.  of  burnt 
cork  in  powder.  This  will  not  take  the  dull,  bluish  tinge  of  metallic 
dyes,  but  give  a  lustrous  blackness  to  the  hair,  like  life.  To  apply 
it,  put  on  old  gloves,  cover  the  shoulders  carefully  to  protect  the 
dress,  and  spread  the  color  preparation  like  pomade  on  the  head, 
working  it  well  through  the  hair.  It  changes  the  color  at  once,  as  a 
black  dressing  rather  than  a  dye. 


THE  HAIR.  529 

FOR  THE  HAIR. — For  dark  hair  use  2  ozs.  of  strong  green  sage 
steeped  in  a  quart  of  water  to  wash  the  hair  with.  For  light  or  blond 
hair,  use  dried  sage  tea.  Boil  both  till  reduced  to  a  pint  and  then 
apply  it  to  the  hair. — Mrs.  Dr.  French. 

To  TURN  THE  HAIR  A  GOLD  COLOR  GRADUALLY. — Wash  it  several 
times  a  day  with  champagne  wine. 

To  COLOR  GRAY  HAIR  A  GOLD  COLOR. — A  small  portion  of  the 
nitrate  of  silver,  dissolved  in  sweet  oul. 

To  PREVENT  ONE'S  BONNET  FROM  BEING  INJURED  BY  THE  HAIR. 
— Past  a  piece  of  oiled  silk  in  the  part  where  the  crown  of  your  bon- 
net meets  the  brim,  spreading  it  some  distance  up  the  crown  and 
some  distance  down  into  the  hair  between  the  outside  and  lining. 
Or  an  oiled  bonnet  or  cap  may  do. 

SCALD    HEADS 

CURE  FOR  SCALD  HEAD. — This  disease  commences  with  the  symp- 
toms of  the  common  ring  worm  in  its  earliest  stages,  only  the  rings 
are  not  so  red  as  the  former;  the  skin  in  the  center  does  not  appear 
very  different  from  the  surrounding  healthy  parts,  but  when  examin- 
ed carefully  it  is  found  full  of  minute  pustules  which  are  highly  con- 
tageous  and  full  of  a  yellow  matter,  capable  of  communicating  the 
disease  even  to  adults.  Though  there  is  no  fever,  the  health  is  not 
perfect,  which  may  be  either  the  cause  or  the  effect  of  the  disease. 
If  carefully  noticed  previous  to  the  outbreak,  the  ordinary  scurf  be- 
comes thicker  and  browner  than  usual ;  then  the  eruption  spreads 
rapidly,  and  if  not  arested  extends  over  the  face,  neck  and  shoul- 
ders, causing  the  hair  to  fall  from  the  head,  eyebrows  and  lashes,  and 
the  person  to  appear  almost  a  leper ;  sometimes  the  skin  appears 
covered  with  white  scabs,  and  to  fall  off  like  bran,  and  unless  care- 
fully washed  becomes  highly  offensive.  The  treatment  is  almost 
entirely  local  and  the  remedies  will  be  useless,  if  the  reduction  of 
the  general  health  is  not  supported  by  good  living  and  tonics.  The 
first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  cut  off  the  hair  with  scissors  or  shave  the 
diseased  spot  as  closely  as  possible  with  a  razor,  then  make  a  lather 
as  strong  as  possible  with  castile  soap  and  rub  it  on  the  sores ;  let  it 
remain  a  moment  to  soften  the  scabs,  then  wash  them  clean  in  warm 
water  and  wipe  them  dry.  The  parts  being  cleansed,  the  applica- 
tions can  act  on  them ;  then  place  on  them  a  large  iflaxseed  meal 
poultice.  After  removing  this  valuable  poultice  wash  the  place 
again  with  mild  soap  and  water,  and  wipe  dry  ;  after  this,  make  a 
plaster  of  ointment  composed  of  i  drachm  of  iodide  of  mercury  to  i 
oz.  of  lard;  let  it  remain  a  day  and  night,  then  cleanse  the  scalp 
with  yellow  or  domestic  soap  and  apply  the  ointment  again.  Re- 
peat this  every  day,  but  if  the  mercury  causes  too  much  irritation,  on 


530  THE  HAIR. 

alternate  days  use  the  iodide  of  sulphur,  made  half  as  strong  as  the 
iodide  of  mercury,  but  if  the  irritation  still  continues,  apply  another 
linseed  poultice.  Generally  this  application  acts  in  a  wonderfu 
manner  after  a  day  or  two,  and  reduces  the  disease  to  a  mere  scurf. 
But  this  must  not  by  any  means  be  considered  a  cure,  until  the  skin 
is  sound  and  the  hair  comes  out  again,  which  it  does  in  the  course 
of  time.  The  above  remedies  destroy  the  vegetable  fungus  in  which 
the  disease  essentially  consists.  If  but  little  scurf  remain,  instead 
of  the  ointment,  use  a  wash  composed  of  10  to  20  grains  of  chloride 
of  zinc,  2  oz.  glycerine  ;  rose  water,  6  oz ;  mix.  Or,  sometimes  use 
an  ointment  of  creosote,  composed  of  1-2  fluid  drachm  of  creosote 
with  i  oz.  of  lard,  melted  till  thoroughly  incorporated.  I  have  met 
with  the  following  directions,  which  I,  with  the  above,  consider  ex- 
tremely valuable,  for  so  loathsome  a  disease  known  as  tetter  or 
scald  head:  Take  of  carbonate  of  soda  i  drachm  which  dissolve  in 
1-2  pint  of  vinegar.  Wash  the  head  every  morning  with  soft  soap, 
and  apply  the  lotion  night  and  morning.  One  teaspoonful  of  sul- 
phur and  treacle  should  also  be  given  occasionally  night  and  morn- 
ing. The  hair  should  be  cut  close,  and  around  the  spot  it  should  be 
shaved  off  and  the  part  bathed  night  and  morning  with  a  lotion 
made  by  dissolving  i  drachm  of  sulplur  in  6  ozs.  of  water.  A  small 
piece  of  either  of  the  subjoined  ointments,  rubbed  into  the  part 
when  the  lotion  has  dried  in.  No.  i.  Take  of  citron  ointment  i 
drachm.;  sulphur  and  tar  ointments,  of  each  1-2  oz.;  mix  thoroughly 
and  apply  twice  a  day.  No.  2.  Take  of  simple  cerate,  i  oz.;  creo- 
sote i  dram.;  calomel,  30  grains ;  mix  and  use  in  the  same  manner 
as  the  first.  Concurrent  with  these  external  remedies,  the  child 
should  take  an  alterative  powder  every  morning ;  or,  if  they  act  too 
much  on  the  bowels,  only  every  second  day.  An  important  fact 
must  be  remembered  by  mother  or  nurse,  never  to  use  the  same 
comb  or  wipe  on  the  same  towel  employed  for  the  child  with  a  dis- 
eased scalp  for  the  healthy  children,  or  let  the  little  afflicted  one 
sleep  with  those  that  are  free  from  the  disease ;  and,  for  fear  of  any 
contact  with  hands,  head  or  otherwise,  to  keep  the  child's  head  en- 
veloped in  a  tight  cap  until  the  eruption  is  completely  cured. 

N.  E. — I  have  known  several  families  to  take  scald  head  imme- 
diately from  one  individual.  A  little  boy  took  it  from  a  young 
friend  whom  he  loved  dearly  ;  others  from  him,  &c.,  till  it  was  circu- 
lated. None  knew  how  infectious  or  contagious  it  was,  or  that  it 
was  so  at  all,  and  after  many  years  of  regrets,  with  visiting  of  water- 
ing places  and  heavy  medical  bills,  they  were  cured  by  using  the  old 
fashioned  but  repulsive  remedy  of  anointing  the  places  with  equal 
portions  of  flowers  of  sulphur  and  pure  lard,  perfumed  with  oil  of 
roses.  The  hair  being  shaven  closely,  the  scalp  repeatedly  washed 


THE  HAIR.  531 

and  Kept  clean,  wearing  a  cap,  keeping  free  from  exposure  to  draught 
and  cold.     Taking  daily,  as  an  apperient,  cream  of  tartar. 

To  REMOVE  scurf  from  the  head,  take  8  ozs.  of  castor  oil,  6  ozs.  of 
olive  oil,  1-2  oz.  of  tincture  of  cantharides ;  mix  it  well  and  add  2 
drams  of  essence  of  bergamot  to  render  it  agreeable.  Or  mix  equal 
quantities  of  rum  and  oil,  and  use  it  like  oil  alone.  Or  take  equal 
portions  of  castor  oil,  sweet  oil  and  rum. 

DEPILATORIES. 

DEPILATORIES  FOR  REMOVING  SUPERFLUOUS  HAIR. — All  articles 
of  this  kind  should  be  used  with  much  care,  as  the  skin  sometimes 
comes  off  with  the  hair,  causing  a  very  unpleasant  sore.  But  many 
persons  will  use  them,  notwithstanding  the  danger.  Mix  a  sufficient  of 
the  powder  with  warm  water  to  form  a  paste;  place  enough  on  the 
hair  to  cover  it,  and  allow  it  to  remain  a  few  minutes,  or  until  its 
action  on  the  skin  be  sensibly  felt;  then  remove  it  with  a  penknife  or 
a  paper  knife,  like  removing  the  beard  with  lather;  apply  a  little  cold 
cream  or  oil  after  washing  the  place  well  with  clear  water. 

H MR  SUPERFLOUS,  TO  REMOVE. — Make  a  plaster  of  shoemaker's 
wax,  spread  it  over  a  very  fine  and  strong  cloth  or  an  old  kid  glove, 
warm  it  just  enough  to  make  it  stick  to  the  skin,  then  pull  off  sud- 
denly. It  will  not  smart  much,  then  wash  the  spot  or  arms  in  warm 
soapsuds;  when  partially  dry,  rub  on  some  wood  ashes  and  wash  off 
at  once  in  clear  water,  then  grease  the  skin.  This  application,  re- 
peated a  few  times  as  the  hair  grows  out,  will  entirely  destroy  the 
roots. 

BANDOLINES. 

BANDOLINE  OR  FIRE  TAN  FOR  THE  HAIR. — Take  good  Irish  moss 
one  lb.;  cover  it  with  water,  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  30  minutes 
or  more,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  add  about  a  quart  more  of 
fresh  water;  put  it  on  the  stove  and  boil  till  dissolved;  then  strain 
it  through  a  cloth  without  squeezing  it;  if,  on  cooling  a  little,  it  is  too 
solid,  add  sufficient  water  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  thick  syrup. 
It  can  be  perfumed  with  attar  of  roses  or  anything  desired;  a  few 
drops  is  sufficient  to  answer  the  purpose.  If  required  to  keep  for 
some  time,  dissolve  five  grains  corrosive  sublimate  and  ten  grains  of 
muriate  of  ammonia  in  a  little  water  and  add  to  it.  If  required  of  a 
pink  color,  pass  a  little  alcohol  through  cudbear  to  tinge  it,  or  bloom 
of  roses  can  be  used  when  the  sublimate  is  omitted.  Quince  seeds 
are  superior  to  Irish  moss,  if  they  can  be  obtained,  and  are  prepared 
in  a  similar  way.  Put  in  bottles  or  jars  and  keep  closely. 

BANDOLINE  FOR  THE  HAIR.— English. — Boil  a  tablespoonful  of 
linseed  in  a  plot  of  water  for  five  minutes.  Strain  and  bottle  for  use. 


532  THE  HAIR. 

HAIR   TONICS   AND    INVIGORATORS. 

HAIR  RESTORATIVE. — Fine  salt  dissolved  in  water,  apply  daily. 

To  PROMOTE  THE  GROWTH  OF  HAIR. — Equal  quantities  of  olive 
oil  and  spirits  of  rosemary,  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  nutmeg.  Mix  the 
ingredients  together;  rub  the  roots  of  the  hair  every  night,  with  a 
little  of  this  liniment,  and  the  growth  will  soon  sensibly  increase, 

To  INCREASE  THE  GROWTH  OF  THE  HAIR. — Beat  heartshorn  very 
fine  and  mix  with  sweet  oil;  put  upon  the  head  of  persons  who 
have  lost  their  hair,  will  cause  it  to  grow  again  as  at  first. 

ROSEMARY  LEAVES  A  HAIR  TONIC. — Steep  them  in  rectified  spirits; 
good  to  promote  the  growth  of  the  hair  on  account  of  its  essential 
oil. 

HAIR  TONIC — i  dram  flour  sulphur,  i  dram  sugar  of  lead,  i  dram 
cantharides,  2  oz.  spirits  ammonia,  i  oz.  glycerine,  2  ozs.  rose  water; 
add  one  pint  of  soft  water,  and  shake  it  well  before  using  it.  Used 
for  many  years. 

CURE   FOR   BALDNESS. 

CAPILLARY  OIL  FOR  BALDNESS. — It  is  good  for  stimulating  the 
growth  of  the  hair  after  a  spell  of  sickness  and  for  preventing  it 
from  falling  off.  As  far  as  experience  goes,  it  remains  unequalled, 
by  any  other  hair  tonic.  8  grains  corrosive  sublimate,  10  grains 
cantharides;  12  ounces  alcohol;  mix  and  allow  the  compound  to 
stand  for  3  days,  then  filter;  add  castor  oil  4  ounces,  1-2  ounce  oilot 
rosemary  flowers.  Apply  once  every  day,  and  rub  well  into  the 
skin.  A  stiff  brush  is  better,  as  it  slightly  irritates  the  scalp.  A 
daily  application  for  seven  or  eight  days,  will  effectually  stop  the 
hair  from  coming  out,  and  if  cutaneous  disease  exist,  the  mixture 
will  cure  it. 

BALDNESS. — Mix  pearlash,  1-2  oz.,  onion  juice  i  gill,  i  pint  of 
water.  Cork  in  a  bottle.  Rub  the  scalp  hard  with  a  rough  linen 
towel  dipped  in  the  mixture  daily. 

OIL  FOR  INCIPIENT  BALDNESS. — A  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  tinct- 
ure of  cantharides  and  olive  or  almond  oil,  simply  agitated  together 
before  use.  A  more  effective  and  cleanly  liquid  may  be  made  by 
substituting  more  of  spirits  of  rum  for  the  oil,  and  adding  i  or  1-2 
drams  (Price's)  glycerine  to  each  ounce  of  the  mixture.  Distilled 
or  rosemary  water  is  often  substituted  for  proof  spirits.  A  still  more 
active  preparation  is  made  of  the  catharides  and  glycerine  only. 

TO  CURL  THE  HAIR. 

To  CURL  HAIR. — Take  2  oz.  borax,  i   dram   of  powdered  gum 


THE  HAIR.  533 

Senegal,  i  quart  hot  water  (not  boiling),  mix,  and  as  soon  as  the  in- 
gredients are  dissolved,  add  2  oz.  of  spirits  of  wine,  strongly  im- 
pregnated with  camphor;  on  retiring  to  rest,  wet  the  hair  with  the 
above  mixture  and  roll  it  in  paper  as  usual;  leave  them  till  morning 
then  untwist  and  form  into  ringlets. 

To  MAKE  HAIR  CURL  EASILY. — This  may  be  done  by  rubbing  it 
with  a  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  washed  off  with  clear  water,  afterwards. 
_Note — It  is  always  well  to  go  through  this  process  when  you 
change  to  curls  after  having  worn  the  hair  plain. 

To  MAKE  HAIR  CURL. — After  wetting  the  hair  to  be  curled,  let  the 
ends  be  as  even  as  possible,  then  wrap  it  around  a  perfectly  smooth 
round  stick  of  wood,  or  a  metalic  tube  of  proper  size;  tie  it  properly 
and  put  it  so  as  to  suspend  it  in  water,  that  it  may  not  touch  the 
bottom,  of  the  vessel  and  boil  from  3  to  10  hours,  remove  it  from  the 
boiler,  wrap  it  carefully  in  a  newspaper,  or  in  dough  and  bake  it  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  one  hour.  Thus  heated,  it  will  remain  perma- 
nantly  curled. 

BEER  FOR  CURLING  THE  HAIR. — Beer  may  be  used  to  make  the 
hair  curl  finely  and  hold  it  in  any  required  position,  it  is  applied  by 
simply  moistening  the  fingers,  and  passing  the  hair  through  them. 

To  Cof,OR  THE  HAIR. — Wash  it  daily  with  cold  potato  water. 

GOLDEN  POWDER  FOR  THE  HAIR.— Make  a  strong  solution  of 
alum  and  hot  water,  then  add  powdered  termuric  enough  to  make  a 
deep  orange  color,  then  set  it  to  crystalize,  then  crush  it  to  a  coarse 
powder.  To  make  the  hair  golden  for  an  evening  entertainment.— 
Dampen  the  hair  with  a  weak  mixture  of  gum  arabic  water,  then 
dust  over  the  above  gold  powder.  It  does  not  shake  off. 

HAIR  DYES  WITHOUT  PREPARATION. 

Nitrate  of  silver,  i  ounce ;  8  ounces  distilled  water ;  sufficient  of 
liquid  ammonia  to  redissolve  the  precipitate  first  formed.  This  ap- 
plied to  the  hair  soon  turns  it  to  a  dark  shade,  particularly  if  it  is  ex- 
posed to  the  warmth  of  the  sun's  rays;  much  care  must  be  used  in 
applying  it.  Stains  on  the  skin  or  on  linen  can  be  removed  by  using 
a  weak  solution  of  cyanide  of  potassium.  Clear  days  are  the  best 

to  apply  it. 

HAIR  DYE  No.  i.— Label  a  bottle  No.  i ;  place  in  it  i  ounce  of 
soft  or  clear  warm  water  after  settling ;  put  into  the  water  i  drachm 
of  sulphide  or  sulphuret  of  potassium. 

HAIR  DYE  No.  2.— Label  another  bottle  No.  2 ;  pour  into  it  i 
ounce  of  soft  or  clear  rain  water ;  and  into  the  water  thus  bottled  i 
drachm  of  crystal ized  nitrate  of  silver.  Apply  No.  i,  and  directly 
after  it  No.  2  for  a  few  minutes,  alternately,  using  different  brushes 
for  each  number ;  use  on  clear  days  ;  as  soon  as  dry  wash  out  well 


534  GLYCERINE. 

with  soap.  Be  careful  not  to  get  it  on  the  skin  or  clothes,  as  it 
makes  the  face  sore,  as  well  as  colors  it. 

LIQUID  TO  COLOR  the  hair  black  without  staining  the  skin. — One 
part  bay  rum,  3  parts  of  olive  oil,  and  i  part  of  good  brandy  by 
measure ;  wash  the  hair  with  it  every  morning  and  it  will  make  the 
hair  beautifully  black  without  injuring  it ;  use  articles  of  the  best 
quality  ;  mix  in  a  bottle ;  shake  well  before  applying. 

A  HARMLESS  DYE  FOR  COLORING  THE  HAIR. — (Dr.  G.) — Take  a 
piece  of  unslacked  lime  (a  good  article)  and  reduce  it  to  powder  by 
pouring  water  on  it,  then  mix  it  with  a  portion  of  litharge,  one- 
fourth  to  one-third  as  much  litharge  as  lime;  reduce  to  a  fine  pow- 
der and  pass  through  a  seive. 

A  VALUABLE  AND  NATURAL  DYE  FOR  FHE  HAIR. — (Contributed 
by  Mrs.  James  de  Stephenson,  of  Arizona,  for  the  "Housekeeper's 
Encyclopaedia.")- --Collect  the  juice  of  the  mesquite  tree  by  making 
an  incision  in  it;  Jhen  wash  the  hair  perfectly  clean  and  wipe  it  dry, 
then  wet  it  several  times  with  the  forementioned  juice,  and  it  will  not 
only  make  the  hair  soft  and  kill  the  vermin,  but  will  make  the  hair 
rich  and  glossy^and  also  the  beard.  Note. — This  juice  is  used  by 
the  Navajo  Indians  for  dying  their  hair  jet  black,  and  exerts  no  in- 
jurious effects. 

GRECIAN  HAIR  DYE. — (Harmless.) — Is  made  from  green  walnut 
hulls  (Juglau  regia)  by  extracting  with  water  and  evaporating  until 
the  regianic  acid  is  precipitated  as  a  black  powder. 

TINCTURE  FOR  GRAY  HAIR. — To  4  ounces  of  the  finely  beaten 
root  of  the  wild  indigo  plant,  i  pint  of  alcohol,  and  i  pint  of  rain 
water  or  soft  water ;  let  it  steep  for  six  or  seven  days  in  a  closely 
covered  vessel  or  bottle,  then  simply  wet  the  scalp  with  It  twice  a 
day  night  or  morning. 

GLYCERINE. 

GLYCERINE  is  the  best  application  known  for  burns.  It  is  sooth- 
ing as  well  as  healing ;  it  is  invaluable  in  diphtheria ;  apply  to  the 
throat  with  a  soft  brush.  It  is  good  in  croup  ;  for  dry  sores  ;  for 
painful  sores ;  for  blistered  skin ;  head  scab,  and  diarrhcea  in  chil- 
dren, used  both  internally  and  externally;  for  chronic  pneumonia, 
given  in  a  teaspoonful  dose  3  times  a  day.  It  is  excellent  to  mix 
poultices  with  to  keep  them  moist,  and  to  make  them  more  healing. 
and  prevent  their  sticking.  It  should  be  in  every  family. 

GLYCERINE. — This  valuable  substance  was  for  ages  considered  of 
no  importance,  being  derived  from  the  residuum  left  after  the  mak- 
ing of  stearine  candles  and  soap.  Its  medical  properties  are  of  the 
most  striking  character,  and  its  value  beyond  computation,  not  only 
in  pharmacy,  but  in  innumerable  things;  its  antisceptic  properties 


CORNS,  BUNIONS  AND  WARTS.  53  J 

are  wonderful.  It  can  preserve  animal  substances  from  decay ; 
leather  is  rendered  soft  and  pliable,  and  preserved  by  it.  If  satu- 
rated with  it,  wooden  vessels  neither  shrink  nor  dry  up ;  its  power 
in  healing  sores,  removing  pains,  such  as  scratches,  of  burns,  is 
marvellous.  It  is  used  for  extracting  the  odor  of  flowers,  and  is  of 
great  use  in  the  processes  of  dying,  wine-keeping,  brewing,  and 
liquor  making. 

GLYCERINE  LOTION. — Mix  i  oz.  of  glycerine  with  i  pint  of  water. 
It  allays  itching  and  removes  dryness,  &c.,in  various  skin  diseases, 
with  the  addition  of  2  or  3  drachms  of  borax,  it  removes  chaps 
from  the  lips,  hands,  and  nipples. 

CORNS,  BUNIONS  AND  WARTS. 

CORNS. — Scrape  chalk  and  bind  it  upon  the  corn,  or  at  night  bind 
a  piece  of  lemon  upon  it.  Gylcerine  is  good  for  corns. 

CORNS.  No.  2.— Take  a  small  piece  of  flannel  that  has  not  been 
washed,  wrap  or  sew  round  the  corn  and  toe.  One  thickness  will 
be  sufficient.  Wet  the  flannel  where  the  corn  is,  night^nd  morning, 
with  fine  sweet  oil.  Remove  the  flannel  weekly,  and  at  the  same 
time  pare  the  corn,  which  will  soon  disappear. 

To  CURE  CORNS. — Before  going  to  bed  at  night,  put  a  coating  of 
gum  arabic  over  the  corn.  It  will  soon  get  well. 

FOR  CORNS. — Powder  some  copperas  and  make  a  paste  with  water, 
put  it  on  a  cloth  and  bind  it  on  the  corn,  when  going  to  bed,  for 
several  nights;  bind  so  as  not  stain  the  bed  linen. 

CURE  FOR  WARTS.— French  Physician.— Steep  a  small  piece  of 
raw  beef  in  sugar  all  night,  trim  the  wart  and  bind  as  much  as  will 
cover  it  and  tie  it  on.  If  the  excresence  is  on  the  forehead,  con- 
fine it  with  sticking  plaster  cut  in  strips. 

RELIABLE  CURE  FOR  CORNS.— Remove  the  hard  part  with  a  sharp 
knife,  then  wrap  a  piece  of  canton  flannel  twice  around  the  toe,  and 
tie  it  with  a  thread  near  the  end,  just  tight  enough  to  keep  the  cloth 
on.  Then  saturate  the  cloth  directly  over  the  corn  with  pure  spirits 
of  turpentine.  In  ten  minutes  the  annoyance  will  cease. 

MECHANICAL  CORN  PLASTERS.— Any  suitable  adhesive  plaster  is 
spread  on  a  thick  leather  (buckskin),  which  is  cut  to  a  suitable  size; 
punch  a  hole  in  the  centre,  vulcanized  India  rubber,  or  any  soft 
leather,  prepared  in  the  same  way;  the  hole  must  just  fit  so  as  to  let 
the  corn  through.  . 

WARTS  AND  CORNS,  ro  CURE  IN  A  FEW  MINUTES.— Make  a  poultic 
of  some  slacked  saleratus,  and  powdered  gum   arabic   and  a  1 
water.     Spread  it  on  a  small  piece  of  rag.     Then  with  a  sharp  knife 
trim  the  corn  or  wart  and  put  the  plaster  on  and  let  it  remain  ten  or 


538  LADIES'  TOILET. 

look  worse.  Above  all,  as  you  regard  health,  comfort,  and  beauty, 
do  not  lace  too  tightly.  A  waist  too  small  for  the  natural  propor- 
tion of  the  figure  is  the  worst  possible  deformity,  and  produces 
many  others.  No  woman  who  laces  tight  can  have  good  shoulders, 
a  straight  spine,  good  lungs,  sweet  breath,  or  is  fit  to  be  a  wife  and 
mother.  The  most  elegant  dresses  are  black  or  white ;  common 
modesty  will  prevent  indecent  exposure  of  the  shoulders  and  bo- 
som. A  vulgar  girl  wears  bright  and  glaring  robes,  fantastically 
made ;  a  large  flaring,  red,  yellow,  or  sky-blue  hat,  covered  with  a 
rainbow  of  ribbons,  and  all  the  rings  and  trinkets  she  can  load  upon 
her.  Of  course,  a  modest,  well-bred  lady  chooses  the  reverse  of 
this.  In  any  assemblage,  the  most  plainly-dressed  woman  is  sure  to 
be  the  most  ladylike  and  attractive.  Neatness  is  better  than  rich- 
ness, and  plainness  is  better  than  display.  Single  ladies  dress  less 
in  fashionable  society  than  married  ones,  and  all  more  plainly  and 
substantially,  for  walking  or  traveling,  than  other  occasions.  As 
a  general  rule,  applicable  to  both  sexes,  that  persons  are  the  best 
dressed  when  you  cannot  remember  what  they  had  on.  Avoid 
everything  out  qf  the  way,  uncommon,  or  grotesque. 

To  PACK  AWAY  DRESSES. — Carefully  fold  in  very  dark-blue  paper, 
as  highly  glazed  as  possible.  This  will  preserve  the  color  of  them, 
but  they  must  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  or  be  occasionally  unfolded 
and  hung  for  a  few  hours  in  a  dry  room,  and  the  paper  be  dried, 
too,  otherwise  they  will  be  sure  to  be  spotted  with  mold. 

THE  BEST  DRESSED  persons  are  those  that  wear  the  least  jewelry. 
Of  all  things,  avoid  showy  chains,  large  rings,  and  flaring  gewgaw 
pins  and  brooches.  All  these  should  be  left  to  the  uncivilized  In- 
dians and  South  Sea  Islanders. 

PHOTOGRAPHS,  TO  DRESS. — In  taking  photographs,  dress  in  dark- 
brown,  dark-green,  maroon,  and  plain  blark  goods,  without  gloss, 
will  make  a  dark,  rich,  drab  color ;  silks  of  a  drab  color  consider- 
ably lighter;  snuff-brown,  dark-leather,  dark  beaver,  dark-drab  ; 
scarlet,  cherry,  orange,  crimson,  and  slate,  will  take  a  very  rich  drab 
color.  Violet,  blue,  purple,  pink,  and  magenta  will  take  very  light, 
and  should  not  be  worn  when  sitting  for  a  picture. 

LOTION  FOR  THE  COMPLEXION. — Mix  together  1-2  oz.  powdered 
borax  and  i  oz.  of  pure  glycerine,  with  i  quart  of  camphor  water. 
Wet  the  face  every  morning,  and  when  nearly  dry,  wash  it  clean 
and  wipe  it  dry. 

FOR  THE  SKIN. — An  old  English  prescription. — Slice  a  cucumber 
in  a  cup  of  blue  skimmed  milk,  let  it  stand  an  hour,  then  bathe  the 
hands  and  face  in  it ;  when  dry  wash  it  off.  It  is  said  that  it  will 
cause  the  hair  to  grow  on  bald  spots. 

To  SOFTEN  AND  REFINE  THE  SKIN. — "Ugly  Girl." — Rub  the  milk 


LADIES'  TOILET.  539 

on  the  face  which  exudes  from  the  stalks  and  leaves  of  garden  let- 
tuce, at  night  and  in  the  morning;  wash  it  off  with  a  solution  of 
spirits  of  ammonia, 

To  PROTECT  THE  SKIN  FROM  THE  STRONGEST  FROST. — Put  3  to  6 
drops  of  glycerine  into  water  before  washing  the  hands  and  face,  or, 
if  only  washing  the  hands,  put  one  drop  into  the  palm  of  the  hand 
after  washing  off  the  soap  and  dirt,  rub  all  over  the  hands  and 
wrists,  and  then  dry  thoroughly.  This  is  also  good  for  sunburn. 

FOR  CHAPPED  SKINS  FROM  THE  COLD  AND  WIND. — Apply  cold 
cream  or  glycerine  at  night  and  wash  off  in  the  morning  with  car- 
bolic soap.  To  avoid  rough  skins  from  exposure,  before  going  out 
rub  the  face,  arms  and  throat  well  with  cold  cream  or  pure  almond 

oil. 

A  FINE  WASH  FOR  THE  SKIN. — Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ammo- 
nia in  a  basin  of  water. 

OINTMENT  FOR  PIMPLES. — Thirty-six  grains  bicarbonate  of  soda, 
i  drachm  of  glycerine,  i  oz.  of  spermaceti 

To  PRODUCE  A  HEALTHY  ACTION  OF  THE  SKIN. — Dip  the  toes 
in  water  every  morning  and  night,  and  rub  the  feet  till  perfectly 
dry. 

RAIN  WATER  is  the  best  lotion,  bloom  of  youth,  and  cosmetic  for 

the  skin. 

To  TAKE  WRINKLES  GOT  OF  THE  FACE,  OR  PREVENT  THEM. — 
Cover  the  head  and  hold  the  face  over  the  fumes  of  powdered 
myrrh  heated  on  an  iron  plate. 

To  REMOVE  WRINKLES. — Thirty-six  grains  of  turpentine,  3 
drachms  of  water;  mix  and  apply  at  night,  letting  it  dry. 

WHEN  THE  WRINKLES  ARE  DEEPER. — Use  2  1-2  drachms  of  es- 
sence of  turpentine,  i  drachm  gum  mastic,  2  ozs.  fresh  butter;  mix 
with  the  lotion ;  wash  the  face,  and  let  it  dry  without  wiping. 

ERUPTIONS  ON  THE  FACE. — Dissolve  i  oz.  of  borax  in  a  quart  of 
water,  and  apply  with  a  sponge  on  going  to  bed.  This  will  destroy 
the  insect  working  under  the  cuticle. 

CAMRHORATED  ALMOND  PASTE. — This  preparation  is  used  for 
softening  the  skin  and  chapped  hands,  roughness  of  skin,  &c. 

COSMETIC  FOR  THE  COMPLEXION. — Mix  glycerine  with  water  and  a 
small  quantity  of  alcohol;  add  cologne  or  other  perfume,  and  you 
have  preparation  excellent  for  the  complexion. 

THE  GREAT  SECRET  OF  ENAMELING  THE  SKIN. — Get  from  the 
druggist  the  purest  and  most  refined  glycerine  and  lily  or  Parisian 
white  and  rouge ;  before  going  to  bed  wash  in  simple  hot  water  as 
can  be  borne  (that  of  rain  water  is  the  best),  the  parts  you  design 
to  make  white,  then  dry  rub  with  a  coarse  towel  till  perfectly  free 
from  moisture ;  then  moisten  a  linen  cloth  with  the  pure  glycerine, 


540  LADIES'  TOILET. 

and  rubbing  it  well  on  the  skin.  This  can  be  done  as  often  as  you 
like  ;  very  soon  the  glycerine  will  remove  all  that  disfigures  the  looks 
of  the  skin,  leaving  it  as  white  and  tender  as  an  infant's.  If  de- 
sired, you  may  use  a  little  of  the  purest  white  lily  and  rouge 
powder. 

To  CLEAR  THE  COMPEXION. — Take  finely  powdered  and  softened 
charcoal,  a  teaspoonful  mixed  with  water  or  honey  three  nights  in 
succession,  then  work  it  out  with  a  mild  purgative;  it  acts  like  calo- 
mel without  its  effects.  This  is  important,  for  the  charcoal  remains 
in  the  system  with  all  the  poison  it  has  absorbed,  so  that  an  aperi- 
ent must  not  be  neglected.  "Ugly  Girl." — This  should  be  repeated 
every  three  months. 

AN  English  writer  says  that  there  is  no  greater  preservation  of 
beauty  than  washing  the  face  in  hot  water  at  night. 

PEARL  POWDER. — Take  of  French  chalk,  in  very  fine  powder,  1-4 
pound;  oxyde  chloride  of  bismuth,  1-2  ounce;  mix  well  together; 
then  apply  by  moistening  a  sufficient  quantity  with  water,  or  di- 
luted cologne,  with  a  soft  rag,  and  allowing  it  to  dry  on ;  after 
which  it  will  bear  wiping  with  a  towel  to  remove  superfluous 
quantity. 

CHINESE  WHITENING,  OR  MEEN  FUN. — Carbonate  of  magnesia, 
2  ozs.;  prepared  chalk,  i  oz.;  both  in  fine  powder ;  mix. 

FRENCH  ROUGE. — Take  French  chalk  in  the  quantity  desired  and 
mix  with  it  carmine,  to  make  it  the  shade  wished.  It  can  be  used 
as  a  powder,  or  with  a  little  weak  mucillage  of  gum  dragon. 

To  IMITATE  FLESH  COLOR. — Mix  a  little  white  and  yellow  chalk 
together,  then  add  a  little  more  red  than  yellow;  these  form 
an  excellent  imitation  of  the  complexion. 

CARE  OF  THE  HANDS. — To  make  the  hands  soft  and  white,  one 
of  the  best  things  is  to  wear  large  mittens  (at  night)  of  cloth  filled 
with  wet  bran  or  oatmeal,  and  confined  at  the  wrist  closely.  A  lady 
who  had  the  whitest,  softest  hands  in  the  country  confessed  that  she 
had  a  great  deal  of  house  work  to  do,  and  kept  them  as  white  as 
any  idler's  by  wearing  bran  mittens  at  night.  The  pastes  and  poul- 
tices for  the  face  owe  most  ©f  their  efficacy  to  their  moisture,  which 
dissolves  the  coarse  skin,  and  to  their  protection  from  the  air,  which 
allows  the  new  skin  to  come  tender  and  delicate.  Oatmeal  paste 
is  as  efficacious  as  anything,  though  less  agreeable  than  pastes  made 
with  the  white  of  egg,  alum  and  rose  water.  The  alum  astringes 
the  flesh  and  makes  it  firm,  while  the  egg  keeps  it  sufficiently  soft, 
and  the  rose  water  perfumes  the  mixture  and  makes  the  curd  not  so 
hard. 

To  MAKE  THE  HANDS  WHITE, — Keep  a  jar  of  oat  or  corn  meal 
on  the  washstand,  and  after  you  have  soaped  your  hands,  put  some 


LADIES'  TOILET.  54 T 

meal  on  them,  rub  it  well  in,  with  the  soap,  rinse  it  off,  and  before 
wiping  put  on  a  coat  of  glycerine ;  then  put  on  a  pair  of  loose  old 
kid  gloves,  let  them  remain  all  night,  and  in  the  morning  wash  off 
the  glycerine.  There  is  nothing  better. 

To  PRODUCE  A  PURE,  CLEAR  SKIN. — Take  a  vapor  bath  or  alco- 
hol bath  thrice  a  week,  which  is  done  by  placing  a  saucer  of  alcohol 
under  an  open  chair  covered  over  with  a  large  blanket,  then  wrap 
the  patient  loosely  in  another  and  seat  the  person  on  it,  then  throw 
the  loose  ends  of  the  lower  blanket  over  and  set  fire  to  the  alcohol 
with  a  match  and  steam  for  15  minutes — or  use  a  tepid  bath— rub 
till  perfectly  dry,  or  the  body  begins  to  glow ;  or  instead  a  tepid  bran 
bath,  or  one  of  oat  meal,  and  rub  till  the  skin  shines. 

To  MAKE  THE  SKIN  FRESH  AND  SOFT.— Mix  together  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  honey  and  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  a  very  little  thick 
cream  or  mutton  tallow;  spread  over  the  face  on  going  to  bed.  In 
the  morning  wash  off  with  soap  and  warm  water. 

WRINKLES,  TO  REMOVE.— Make  a  mixture  of  tar  and  almond  oil, 
and  on  going  to  bed,  apply.  Place  an  old  covering  on  the  pillows  to 
protect  them  from  stains. 

FACE  PASTE.— Beat  or  whisk  well  together  the  whites  of  4  eggs, 
1-2  oz.  each  of  alum  and  almond  oil.  Apply. 

To  REMOVE  FACE  MOTHS,  LIVER  SPOTS,  BLOTCHES,  ETC.,  ETC.— 
Beat  together  equal  portion  of  wild  tansy,  horse  radish  and  new 
milk.  Anoint  the  face  at  pleasure  and  let  it  dry  without  wiping. 

To  REMOVE  PIMPLES  AND  SMALL-POX  MARKS.— Equal  portions  of 
mutton  tallow  and  hog's  lard  with  a  little  cologne  to  make  the  mix- 
ture smell  nicely.  Apply  it  for  days  as  often  as  you  choose. 

N.  B. — No  one  can  have  a  nice  complexion  if  the  digestion  is 

To  WHITEN  THE  HANDS,  A  CREAM. — A  wineglassful  each  of  lem- 
on juice  and  cologne  water  ;  then  scrape  fine  2  cakes  each  of  brown 
Windsor  and  pure  white  soap  to  fine  powder  and  mix  all  to  a  pulp, 
then  pour  into  moulds  ;  when  hard,  use  for  the  toilet. 

FOR  CHAPPED  HANDS.— One  oz.  glycerine,  1-2  oz.  bay-rum,  1-2 
oz.  cologne;  mix  thoroughly  and  apply. 

To  SWEETEN  THE  BREATH.— Get  from  your  druggist  a  package  c 
crushed  cubeb  berries,  smoke  them  every  night  before  retiring  and 
be  sure  to  use  a  dark  clay  pipe,  as  it  does  not  become  strong.     This 
will  sweeten  the  foulest  breath. 

To  CLEANSE  the  teeth  and  purify  the  breath,  chew  orris-root  or 

burnt  bread. 

FOR  SINGERS  AND  PUBLIC  SPEAKERS.— Dissolve  a  tablespoontul 
of  beef  jelly  (domestic  is  better),  in  a  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Eat 
generously. 


542  L.ADIES    TOILET. 

SPANISH  WOOL. — A  Cosmetic. — Separate  the  coloring  matter  from 
safflower  by  washing  them  until  the  water  that  comes  off  is  colorless; 
dry,  powder  and  digest  in  a  weak  solution  of  carbonate  of  soda ; 
then  place  some  cotton  wool  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel  and  throw 
down  the  coloring  matter  by  gradually  adding  lemon  juice  or  white 
vinegar  till  it  ceases  to  produce  a  precipitate.  Next  wash  the  cot- 
ton wool  in  cold  watter,  then  dissolve  out  the  color  with  a  fresh  solu- 
tion of  soda :  add  a  quantity  of  finely  powdered  French  chalk,  pro- 
portioned to  the  intended  quantity  of  rouge ;  mix  well  and  precipi- 
tate as  before.  Lastly,  collect  the  powder,  dry  with  great  care  and 
triturate  it  with  a  minute  quantity  of  oil  of  olives  to  render  it  smooth 
and  adhesive. 

REMARK. — This  is  the  only  article  which  will  brighten  a  lady's 
complexion  without  injuring  the  skin.  The  relative  fineness  of  the 
chalk  and  the  proportion  employed  determine  the  quality  of  the 
rouge. 

CRESSON  ROUGE,  OR  SPANISH  WOOL. — It  is  very  convenient  to 
use  cotton  or  crape  for  absorbing  coloring  matter.  It  should  be  put 
in  the  dye  before  the  lemon  juice  or  citric  acid  is  added,  and  after- 
wards washed  in  water  to  remove  the  acid. 

COLD  CREAM  FOR  THE  SKIN. — 1-2  pound  of  new  sweet  lard,  4  ozs. 
white  wax ;  melt  together.  When  nearly  cold,  perfume  to  fancy. 
Or,  add  to  the  above  i  1-2  ozs.  spermaceti ;  melt  together  and 
gradually  add  i  pint  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds  instead  of  the  lard. 
Have  ready  a  porcelain  mortar  warmed  with  hot  water  and  after- 
wards thrown  out;  pour  in  the  melted  wax  etc.  and  add  gradually  i 
pint  of  distilled  rose  water;  if  not  to  be  had,  use  spring  water,  (rain 
water  will  not  answer).  Take  particular  care,  after  each  addition  of 
water,  that  it  is  well  incorporated  with  the  grease,  and  remove  with  a 
knife  the  portions  that  remain  attached  to  the  sides,  so  that  the 
whole  may  be  homogeneous.  If  the  water  be  added  too  fast,  the 
greater  part  will  come  out  of  the  grease,  and  it  cannot  be  incorpo- 
rated again  without  beginning  the  process  ;  when  the  water  is  all  in, 
add  10  or  20  drops  of  attar  of  roses  and  fill  the  pots  immediately. 
Tap  them  on  a  firm  surface  to  make  the  cream  settle  smoothly,  re- 
sembling wax.  If  desired,  i  or  2  ozs.  of  alcohol  may  be  added, 
It  is  better  to  puc  into  wide  mouthed  bottles.  The  cream  will  keep 
good  for  12  months. 

GLYCERINE  CREAM. — Excellent  for  chapped  hands  or  skin ;  white 
wax,  4  drachms;  spermacetti,  2  drachms;  oil  of  almonds,  2  ozs.; 
melt  the  wax  and  spermacetti,  add  the  oil  and  2  ozs.  of  glycerine; 
stir  until  cold. 

HOME  MADE  COURT  PLASTER. — i  ounce  French  isinglass,  i  pint 
of  warm  water  j  stir  it  until  it  dissolves;  add  10  cents'  worth  of 


LADIES'  TOILET.  543 

pure  glycerine,  5  cents'  worth  of  tincture  of  arnica,  lay  a  piece  of 
white  or  black  silk  on  a  board,  and  paint  it  over  with  the  mixture, 
then  dry  a  little  and  put  it  on  a  flat  surface  to  dry. 

COURT  PLASTER. — Suspend  your  silk  on  a  wooden  frame,  then 
tack  it  on;  dissolve  some  pure  isinglass,  apply  the  glue  with  a 
brush  and  let  it  dry ;  repeat  it,  and  when  dry  cover  it  over  with  a 
strong  tincture  of  the  balsam  of  Peru.  This  is  genuine  English 
court  plaster.  It  is  pliable  and  never  breaks.  You  can  use  what 
color  of  silk  you  may  like  to  form  your  plaster.  It  should  be  put 
only  on  one  side. 

To  CLEAN  COMBS. — If  it  can  he  avoided  never  wash  combs,  as 
the  water  often  makes  the  teeth  split,  and  the  tortoise  shell  or  horn 
of  which  they  are  made  rough.  Small  brushes,  manufactured  pur- 
posely for  cleaning  combs,  may  be  purchased  at  a  trifling  cost. 
With  this  the  comb  should  be  well  brushed,  and  afterwards  wiped 
with  a  cloth  or  towel. 

To  WASH  HORN  BRUSHES. — Dissolve  a  piece  of  soda  in  some  hot 
water,  allowing  a  piece  the  size  of  a  walnut  to  a  quart  of  water,  or 
1-2  teaspoonful  of  hartshorn;  put  the  water  into  a  basin,  and  after 
combing  out  the  hair  from  the  brushes,  dip  them,  bristles  down- 
wards, into  the  water  and  out  again,  keeping  the  backs  and  handles 
as  free  from  the  water  as  possible.  Repeat  this  until  the  bristles 
look  clean,  then  rinse  the  brushes  in  a  little  cold  water,  shake  them 
well,  and  wipe  the  handles  and  backs  with  a  towel,  but  not  the  bris- 
tles, and  set  the  brushes  to  dry  in  the  sun  or  near  the  fire,  but  not 
too  close  to  it ;  wiping  the  bristle  of  a  brush  makes  them  soft,  as 
does  also  the  use  of  soap. 

To  REMOVE  THE  UNPLEASANT  ODOR  OF  PERSPIRATION. — Wash  in 
a  gallon  of  water  to  which  i  tablespoonful  of  compound  spirits  of 
ammonia  is  added. 

THE  sweetest  perfume  is  where  there  is  none. 
FOR  CHAFING. — Wash  in  alum  water  or  spirits  of  camphor  and 
water,  or  a  solution  of  borax  or  water. 

CHAPPED  HANDS  OR  LIPS. — Persons  washing  in  oils  never  have 
chapped  hands,  lips  or  chillblains.  A  little  oil  or  unguent  of  any 
kind  well  rubbed  over  the  hands  on  retiring  at  night,  (removing 
the  superfluous  portion  with  a  cloth),  will  not  only  preserve  them 
from  cold,  but  render  them  beautifully  soft. 

NUMBED  OR  TREMBLING  HANDS,  AN  EXCELLENT  WASH  FOR. — 
Wash  the  hands  frequently,  when  so  affected,  in  a  strong  decoc- 
tion of  worm  wood  and  pounded  mustard  seeds;  strained  and 
used  cold. 

To  REMOVE  WARTS  FROM  THE  HANDS. — Pare  the  warts  so  as  not 
to  make  them  bleed,  then  bathe  them  night  and  morning  with 
ammonia. 


544  LADIES    TOILET. 

To  MAKE  EAUDE  COLOGNE. — Take  1-2  ounce  of  oil  of  sweet  mar- 
jorum,  1-2  ounce  of  thyme,  1-2  ounce  of  essence  of  violets,  1-2  oz. 
of  essence  of  carnations,  9  drops  of  cinnamon;  mix  all  these  arti- 
cles together  in  a  clean  bottle;  shake  it  well.  It  improves  by  keep- 
ing. Cork  it  closely. 

COLOGNE  WATER. — For  barbers'  use  costs  50  cents  per  gallon ; 
oil  of  lavender,  i  drachm;  oils  of  bergamot  and  orange,  each,  2 
drachms;  oils  of  citronella  and  lemon,  each,  3  drops  ;  oil  of  cinna- 
mon, 5  drops;  carbonate  of  potash  and  magnesia,  each,  30  grains; 
alcohol,  2  quarts  ;  water,  3  quarts.  Mix  the  oils  with  alcohol  before 
adding  the  water,  and  filter. 

FLORIDA  WATER. — Oils  of  lavender  (English,  if  preferred),  ber- 
gamot and  lemon,  each,  2  drachms;  oil  of  balm,  30  drops;  altar  of 
rose,  10  drops;  oil  of  neroli,  i  drachm  ;  turmeric  of  saffron,  suffi- 
cient to  tinge  yellow ;  alcohol,  i  quart.  Mix  and  filte-. 

CALIFORNIA  ORANGE  FLOWER  WATER.— One  drachm  of  oil  of 
neroli,  2  ounces  of  alcohol,  i  drachm  of  magnesia,  i  gallon  dis- 
tilled or  filtered  rain  water ;  let  it  stand  7  or  8  days  betore  filtering, 
shaking  it  up  every  day. 

LAVENDER  WATER.— Take  French  oil  of  lavender,  3  ounces ;  oil 
of  bergamot,  i  ounce ;  oil  of  cloves,  30  drops ;  extract  of  musk, 
1-2  ounce;  alcohol,  i  gallon;  mix. 

PERFUME. 

MAY  FLOWERS. — Attar  of  rose  i  drachm;  oil  of  neroli  2  drams;  oil 
of  bergamot  4  drams;  oil  of  citronella  30  drops;  essential  oil  of 
almonds  5  drops;  extract  of  orris  i  pint;  mix. 

SCVRTA  BARBARA  OR  ROUGH  AND  READY  PERFUME. — Oil  of 
neroli  one  dram;  attar  of  rose  two  drachms;  oil  of  lavender  4  drachms; 
extract  of  civit  2  ounces;  extract  of  musk  and  of  storax,  each  four 
ounces;  extract  of  orris  12  ounces;  mix. 

SWEKT  CLOVER. — Essential  oil  of  almonds  30  drops;  oil  of  bergamot 
halt  an  ounce;  oil  of  lavender  one  drachm;  oil  of  sandal  wood,  20 
drops;  extract  of  storax  2  ounces;  extract  of  tonquin  8  ounces;  ex- 
tract of  orris  8  ounces;  mix. 

HELIOTROPE. — Attar  of  roses  2  drachms;  oil  of  neroli  4  drachms; 
essential  oil  of  almonds  i  drachm;  4  ounces  extract  of  vanilla,  8 
ounces  each  extracts  of  tonquin  and  of  orris;  one  ounce  extract 
of  musk;  mix. 

HONEYSUCKLE. — Attar  of  rose  i  drachm;  oil  of  neroli  2  drachms; 
each  four  drams  oil  of  bergamont  and  orange,  10  drops  essential  oil 
of  almonds,  extract  of  benzoin  2  ounces;  extract  of  orris  12  ounces; 
mix. 

LILY  OF  THE  VALLLEY. — Attar  of  roses  half  dram;  oil  m  roll   2 


LADIES*  TOILET.  545 

drams;  essential  oil  of  almonds,  3  drops;  oil  of  cassia  five  drops;  oil 
of  orange,  half  an  ounce;  extract  of  vanilla,  2  ounces;  extract  of  orris, 
12  ounces  alcohol,  4  ounces;  mix. 

TUBE  ROSE.— Oil  of  rhodium,  2  drachms;  oil  of  lavender,  1-2  an 
oz.;  oil  of  red  cedar  wood,  2  drachms;  extract  vanilla,  4  ozs.;  ex- 
tract of  orris,  12  ozs.;  mix. 

TEA  ROSE. — Attar  of  rose,  oil  of  rose  geranium,  and  oil  of  sandal 
wood,  each  2  drachms;  oil  of  neroli  5  drachms;  extract  of  orris,  i 
pint ;  mix. 

VIOLETS. — Oil  of  cassia,  5  drops ;  attar  of  rose,  i  drachm ;  essen- 
tial oil  of  almonds,  3  drops  ;  oil  of  bergamot,  i  oz.;  oil  of  verbena, 

10  drops  ;  extract  ofstorax,  3  ozs.;  extract  of  orris,  i  pint ;  to  which 
may  be  added  i  pint  extract  of  jessamine. 

EAU  DE  COLOGNE. — First  Quality.-- .Spirit  from  grape,  6  above 
proof,  6  gals:  attar  of  neroli  petals,  or  hundred-leaved  rose  petals, 
6  ozs.;  Bigarade,  i  oz.;  rosemary,  2  ozs.;  orange  peel,  5  ozs.;  cit- 
ron, 3  ozs.;  attar  of  bergamot  and  peel,  2  ozs.  (Otto  or  attar 
means  oil.)  Mix  with  agitation ;  then  allow  it  to  stand  for  a  few 
days  perfectly  quiet  before  bottling. 

EUGENIA. — Oil  of  sandal  wood,  i  drachm;  attar  of  rose,  2 
drachms;  oil  of  rose  geranium,  1-2  oz.;  oil  of  lavender,  i  oz.;  oil  of 
cloves,  30  drops  ;  extract  of  musk,  4  ozs.;  extract  ofstorax,  i  oz.; 
extract  of  tonquin,  3  ozs.;  extract  of  orris,  12  ozs  ;  mix. 

THE  EVERLASTING  PERFUME. — Oil  of  lavender,  i  oz.;  oil  of  ber- 
gamot, 2  ozs.;  oil  of  cloves,  30  drops;  oil  of  sandal  wood,  2  drachms; 

011  of  patchouly,  30  drops;  attar  of  rose,  i  drachm;  extract  of  am- 
bergris, 2  ozs;  extract  of  benzoin,  i  oz.;  alcohol,  8  ozs.;  extract  of 
orris,  i  pint ;  mix. 

LADY'S  BOUQUET. — Oils  of  lavender  and  bergamot,  each  3 
drachms;  oils  of  sandal  wood  and  red  cedar  wood,  each  20  drops; 
oil  of  neroli  and  attar  of  rose,  each  i  drachm;  oil  of  cloves,  40  drops; 
extracts  of  vanilla,  musk,  and  tonquin,  each  2  ozs.;  extract  of  orris, 
i  pint ;  mix. 

To  PRESERVE  FLOWERS  WITH  THEIR  NATURAL  COLORS. — The 
mode  in  which  the  operation  is  effected,  is  this:  A  vessel  with  a  move- 
able  cover  and  bottom  is  provided,  and  having  removed  the  cover 
from  it,  a  piece  of  metalic  gauze  of  moderate  firmness  is  fixed  over 
it,  and  the  cover  replaced.  A  quantity  of  sand  is  then  taken  suffi- 
cient to  fill  the  vessel  and  is  passed  through  a  seive  into  an  iron  pot, 
when  it  is  heated,  with  the  addition  of  a  small  quantity  of  stearine, 
carefully  refined,  so  as  to  thoroughly  mix  the  ingredients.  The 
quantity  ot  stearine  to  be  added  is  at  the  rate  of  1-2  Ib.  to  100  Ibs.  of 
sand.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  add  too  much  stearine,  as  it  would 
sink  to  the  bottom,  and  injure  the  flowers.  The  vessel  with  its  cover 


6546  LADIES*  TOILET. 

on,  and  the  gauze  beneath  it,  is  then  turned  upside  down,  and  the 
bottom  being  removed,  the  flowers  to  be  operated  upon  are  carefully 
placed  on  the  gauze,  and  the  sand  gently  poured  in,  so  as  to  cover 
the  flowers  entirely,  the  leaves  prevented  from  touching  each  other. 
The  vessel  is  then  put  into  a  hot  place,  such  for  instance,  as  the  top 
of  a  baker's  oven,  when  it  is  left  for  18  hours.  The  flowers  thus  be- 
come dried,  and  they  retain  their  natural  colors.  The  vessel  still  re- 
maining bottom  upwards.  The  lid  is  taken  off  and  the  sand  runs 
away  through  the  gauze,  leaving  the  flowers  uninjured. 

METHOD  OF  EXTRACTING  ESSENCES  FROM  FLOWERS. — Petals  of  any 
flowers  which  have  an  agreeable  fragrance,  take  thin  layers  of  cotton 
batting,  which  dip  into  the  finest  florence  or  succo  oil.  Sprinkle  a 
small  quantity  of  fine  salt  on  the  flowers,  lay  them  on  a  layer  of  cot- 
ton and  a  layer  of  flowers,  until  an  earthern  vessel  or  a  wide  mouth- 
ed glass  vessel  is  full.  Tie  the  top  close  or  tie  with  a  ground  glass 
stopper,  then  lay  the  vessels  in  a  south  aspect  to  the  heat  of  the  sun, 
and  in  fifteen  days  when  uncovered,  a  fragrant  oil  may  be  squeezed 
out  of  the  whole  mass,  little  inferior  (if  that  flower  is  made  use  of)to 
the  dear  and  much  valued  otto  or  attar  of  roses.  The  flowers  should 
be  removed  and  others  added  and  continue  to  repeat  the  process 
until  sufficiently  strong. 

COLOR  ARRANGEMENTS. — A  few  simple  rules  in  the  arrangement 
of  flower  beds,  will  materially  enhance  the  effect  produced.  Among 
these  are:  rst.  Avoid  rose-colored  next  to  scarlet,  orange,  or  violet. 
2d.  Do  not  place  orange  next  to  yellow,  or  blue  next  to  violet.  3d. 
White  relieves  any  color,  but  do  not  place  it  next  to  yellow.  4th. 
Orange  goes  well  with  blue,  yellow  with  violet.  $th.  Rose  color 
and  purple  always  go  well  together. 

How  TO  PRESS  FLOWERS. — Lay  the  flowers  carefully  on  a  thin 
sheet- of  cotton  batting,  then  cover  them  over  with  another  sheet  of 
batting;,  then  put  them  under  a  slight  pressure,  being  careful  not  to 
rumple  them.  But  if  the  flowers  are  thick  and  contain  a  good  deal 
of  moisture,  change  the  cotton  batting  the  next  day ;  lay  the  flowers 
smoothly  and  carefully,  after  which  let  them  remain  until  dry.  In 
pressing  nearly  all  the  small  flowers,  the  cotton  need  not  be  changed, 
nor  even  opened,  until  the  flowers  are  preserved. 

OILS,  EXTRACTS  AND  ESSENCES. 

EXTRACTS  OF  VANILLA. — Vanilla  beans,  (cut  longitudinal  or  bruis- 
ed), 4  ounces;  alcohol,  72  degrees,  2  pints.  Let  it  stand  10  days. 

EXTRACT  TONQUIN. — Tonquin  beans,  bruised,  i  pound,  alcohol  2 
pints. 

EXTRACT  BENZOIN. — Gum  benzoin,  4  oz.;  alcohol  a  pints. 

EXTRACT  OF  MUSK. — If  you  can,  purchase  4  ounces  musk  bags 


LADIES'  TOILET.  547 

from  which  the  tonquin  musk  has  been  removed;  these  give  out  a 
large  amount  of  odor,  and  can  generally  be  purchased.  Pour  on 
these,  8  ozs.  of  boiling  water  in  a  bottle  and  cork  up  ;  let  it  stand  24 
hours,  then  add  8  ozs.  of  alcohol.  If  the  pods  cannot  be  obtained, 
use  i  oz.  of  tonquin  musk,  in  pods,  and  3  pints  of  proof  spirits. 

MUSK. — Take  of  the  extract  of  musk,  8  ozs.;  extract  vanilla,  4  ozs.; 
extract  of  orris  root,  6  ozs.;  attar  of  roses,  24  drops.  Mix. 

ESSENCE  OF  BERGAMOT. — One-half  pint  of  spirits  of  wine  or  alco- 
hol, 4  ozs.  bergamot  peel;  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  3  days, 
then  filter  or  strain  it. 

ESSENCE  OF  CLOVES. — Alcohol,  9  ounces ;  i  ounce  of  oil  of  cloves. 

ESSENCE  OF  VIOLETS, — One-half  pint  of  spirits  of  wine,  i  oz.  orris 
root,  proceed  as  in  the  essence  of  bergamot. 

ROYAL  ESSENCE  FOR  THE  BEARD. — Castile  soap  in  shavings,  4 
ozs.;  proof  spirit  i  pint;  dissolve. 

ESSENCE  OF  LEMON  PEEL. — Yellow  peel  of  fresh  lemons,  1-2  lb.; 
spirits  of  wine,  i  pint.  Digest  for  a  week,  press  and  filter;  very 
fragrant.  Essence  of  orange  peel  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

ATTAR  OF  ROSES. — Kashmere  mode. — Put  into  a  moderate  quan- 
tity of  water,  more  or  less,  as  many  petals  of  the  damask  or  castillian 
rose,  or  hundred  leaf  or  cabbage  rose,  as  the  vessel  will  hold,  then 
carefully  bring  it  to  a  boil  in  a  perfectly  clean  porcelain  or  earthen 
vessel ;  then  boil  it  slowly  till  the  leaves  are  a  pulp,  then  add  some 
more  boiling  water.  Pour  into  an  earthen  pan,  the  night  before, 
and  while  hot,  place  the  jar  2-3  deep  in  a  running  stream.  In  the 
morning  the  attar  appears  like  oil  on  the  surface  of  the  water ;  then 
bend  a  blade  of  grass  like  a  hoop,  holding  the  ends  between  the 
thumb  and  forefinger,  and  carefully  skim  off  the  oil  into  a  vial. 

SCENTED  BAGS. — Proportion  the  the  amount  intended  for  use, 
rose  wood,  sandal  wood,  red  cedar  wood,  in  coarse  powder,  each 
1-2  lb.;  attar  of  roses,  i  drachms;  musk,  i  drachms;  green  benzoin 
i  ounce. 

FRANGIPANNI  OR  EVERLASTING  PERFUME  BAGS. — Sandal  wood,  1-4 
lb.;  orris  root,  1-4  lb.;  vitivent,  1-2  lb.;  all  pulverized,  attar  of  roses, 
i  drachm  ;  storax  calamita,  i  oz.;  tonquin  musk,  i  1-2  drachms ;  mix 
well.  Vitivent  is  a  species  of  fragrant  grass,  very  rare,  but  1-4  oz. 
of  oil  of  vitivent  added  to  1-2  lb.  of  orris  root  powder,  will  be  a  sub- 
stitute. 

SCENT  POWDER. — A  charming  recipe  for  scent  powder,  to  be  used 
for  wardrobe,  boxes,  etc. ;  far  finer  than  any  mixture  sold  at  the 
shops,  is  the  following :  Coriander,  orrisroot,  rose  leaves  and  aro- 
matic calamus,  each  i  oz.,  lavender  flowers,  2  ozs.;  rhodium  wood, 
1-4  drachm;  musk,  5  grains.  These  are  to  be  mixed  and  reduced 
to  a  coarse  powder.  This  scent  on  clothes  is  as  if  all  fragrant  flow- 
ers had  been  concentrated  into  one. 


548  LADIES'  TOILET. 

PASTILLES. — Benjamin,  2  oz.;  cascarnilla,  i  drachm;  myrrh,  1-2 
oz.;  15  drops  each  of  oil  of  nutmeg  and  cloves;  nitre,  i  drachm; 
charcoal  i  1-2  ozs.;  mucilage  enough  to  make  into  a  mass,  then 
divide  into  shapes  and  dry. 

PERFUME  FROM  FADED  ROSE  LEAVES. — When  the  roses  in  your 
bouquet  fade,  put  them  in  a  small  flower  dish  with  a  little  salt  at  the 
bottom;  then  sprinkle  the  leaves  over  with  alcohol.  Some  keep 
large  vases  for  this  purpose,  in  room,  to  produce  a  pleasant  atmos- 
phere about  the  house. 

FRENCH  RECIPE  FOR  TOILET  VINEGAR. — Cassia  bark  4  ounces ; 
camphor  2  drams;  cloves  4  drams;  orris  root  8  ounces;  oils  of  rose- 
mary and  lavender,  each  one  dram,  alcohol,  one  and  a  half  pints, 
water  2  pints;  strong  citric  acid  8  ounces;  mix  together  before  add- 
ing the  oils,  macerate  10  days  and  filter. 

VINEGAR  ROUGE. — Take  12  ounces  of  rain  or  distilled  water;  boil 
for  a  few  minutes  and  add  4  drams  of  the  best  carmine;  i  dram  of 
cream  tartar;  1-2  dram  of  alum;  add  when  cold  ten  drops  of  attar  of 
rose,  and  4  ounces  of  alcohol.  After  the  mixture  is  settleed,  it  may 
be  reduced  to  the  required  shade.  If  any  carmine  remains  undis- 
solved,  repeat  the  process  with  fresh  materials. 

FOR  CHAPPED  LIPS. — Put  1-4  ounce  of  benjarum,  storax  and 
spermaceti,  a  little  alkanet  root,  a  large  juicy  apple  chopped_  fine,  a 
bunch  of  black  grapes  bruised;  1-4  pound  unsalted  batter  and  2 
ounces  of  beeswax  into  a  new  tin  sauce  pan ;  simmer  gently  till 
the  wax,  &c.,  are  dissolved,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  linen. 
When  cold,  melt  it  again,  and  pour  it  into  small  pots  or  boxes, 
or  make  into  small  cakes.  Use  the  bottoms  of  teacups;  warm  when 
taken  out. 

A  NICE  TOILET  SALVE. — One  drachm  each  of  white  wax, 
spermaceti  and  2  ounces  of  almond  oil  melted  together ;  keep  in 
small  jars.  While  warm,  add  2  ounces  of  rose  water,  1-2  ounce  of 
orange  flower  water. 

LIP  SALVE. — Stew  white  and  sweet  oil  together;  if  desired,  color 
with  cochineal ;  perfume  with  any  of  the  essential  oils. 

CAMPHOR  ICE. — One-half  ounce  white  wax,  1-2  oz.  each  sweet 
oil  and  gum  camphor :  simmer  together ;  cork  tightly ;  good  for 
pains,  sores  of  any  kind,  chaps,  &c. 

GLYCERINE  CAMPHOR  ICE. — Four  ounces  white  wax,  6  ounces 
almond  oil,  4  ounces  glycerine;  melt  the  wax  and  add  the  oil,  then 
the  glycerine. 

TJJE  BEST  and  quickest  way  to  clean  kid  gloves  is  this :  Wash 
your  hands  and  wrists  perfectly  clean,  wipe  them  dry,  put  on  your 
gloves  and  fasten  them  as  if  going  out.  Pour  as  much  gasoline  in 
your  wash  bowl  as  will  enable  you  to  comfortably  wash  your  hands, 


LADIES'  TOILET.  549 

and  then  wash  your  hands,  gloves  and  all,  carefully  rubbing  every 
dirty  spot.  When  clean,  let  the  gloves  remain  on  until  dry,  which 
will  be  soon.  You  will  be  surprised  to  find  how  white  your  hands 
are,  and  how  dirty  the  gasoline. — Mrs.  Viehle. 

To  CLEAN  GLOVES. — Pour  some  gasoline  into  a  wide-mouthed 
bottle,  then  put  your  gloves  in,  say  1-2  dozen  pairs,  more  or  less, 
see  thut  they  are  just  covered  with  the  fluid,  then  stop  the  bottle, 
and  continue  to  shake  it  up  and  down  until  the  gloves  are  clean, 
and  if  very  dirty  pour  off  the  fluid  and  add  some  more,  and  con- 
tinue to  shake  up  and  down,  then  with  some  wooden  tongs,  or  with 
your  fingers,  hang  them  to  a  clean  clothes'  line  with  clothes  pins  in 
the  sun  to  dry,  or  if  the  weather  is  damp  put  the  gloves  on  a  sheet 
of  perfectly  clean  paper  and  put  them  in  a  luke-warm  stove,  and 
they  will  soon  dry.  Be  .careful  not  to  let  the  oven  be  too  warm. 
The  warmth  will  remove  the  oder. 

GLOVES,  KID  LIGHT,  TO  CLEAN. — Rub  in  them  cream  of  tartar  or 
magnesia  with  a  piece  of  clean  white  flannel. 

COLORING  WHITE  KID  GLOVES  EITHKR BLACK  OR  PURPLE. — With 
a  solution  of  logwood  i  part,  extract  of  logwood  and  3  parts  brandy. 
Put  the  gloves  on  both  hands,  apply  with  a  sponge  or  rag  and  rub 
thoroughly  dry,  and  keep  rubbing  the  hands  together  so  as  to  soften 
the  gloves. 

To  DYE  GLOVES. — Take  the  color  suitable  for  the  occasion  ;  if 
dark,  take  Spanish  brown  and  black  earth  ;  if  lighter,  yellow  and 
whiting,  and  soon  with  other  colors;  mix  them  over  a  moderate 
fire,  daub  the  gloves  over  with  the  color,  wet,  and  let  them  hang  till 
they  are  dry,  and  then  beat  out  the  superfluity  of  the  color  and 
smooth  them  over  with  a  stretching  or  sleeking  stick,  reducing  them 
to  a  proper  shape. 

To  DYE  GLOVES  BROWN  OR  TAN  COLOR. — 10,000  recipes. — Steep 
saffron  flowers  in  soft  or  rain  water,  boiling  for  12  hours,  then  hav- 
ing sewed  the  tops  of  the  gloves  to  prevent  the  dye  from  staining 
the  insides,  wet  them  with  a  sponge  or  brush  dipped  in  the  liquid  ; 
the  quantity  of  saffron  as  well  as  the  water  will,  of  course,  depend 
on  how  much  dye  may  be  wanted,  and  their  relative  proportions  on 
the  depth  of  color  required.  A  common  teacupful  will  contain  suf- 
ficient in  quantity  for  a  single  pair  of  gloves. 

VEGETABLE  DENTRIFICE  OR  TOOTH  POWDER. —  Peruvian  bark, 
gum  myrrh  and  castile  soap,  each  2  ounces  ;  bole  ammonian,  the 
soft  part  of  cuttlefish  bone,  rose  pink  and  carbonate  of  magnesia, 
each  4  ounces  ;  orris  root,  8  ounces,  all  in  very  fine  powder ;  per- 
fume with  30  drops  of  any  essential  oil ;  sassafras,  winter  green, 
lavender,  rose,  cinnamon  or  cloves  prepared  ;  after  well  mixing  pass 
through  a  fine  muslin  sieve.  It  is  best  to  have  the  rose  pink  and 
soap  well  dried  before  powdering. 


550  LADIES    TOILET. 

CHARCOAL  AND  CHALK  TOOTH  POWDER. — To  4  ounces  of  char- 
coal add  3  of  finely  pulverized  chalk  or  prepared  chalk,  or  orris, 
and  sufficient  honey  to  form  a  paste. 

SAN  FRANCISCO  TOOTH  POWDER. — Take  a  little  suds  made  with 
castile  soap  and  an  equal  amount  of  spirits  of  camphor,  then  thicken 
with  finely  pulverized  chalk  and  charcoal,  equal  quantities,  to  a  thick 
paste ;  apply  with  the  finger  or  soft  cloth,  or  wooden  brush,  rubbing 
thoroughly.  It  will  whiten  the  teeth  more  than  the  majority  of  tooth 
powders.  Badger's  hair  is  soft,  and  is  good  to  work  between  the 
teeth.  Moisten  with  a' little  camphor  as  you  use  it.  Never  use 
stiff  bristle  brushes,  as  they  permanently  injure  the  gums,  which 
causes  the  teeth  to  decay. 

CHINESE  DENTRIFICE. — Ashes  of  dried  rice  finely  pulverized. 
Press  through  a  fine  muslin  sieve  ;  perfume  with  any  essential  oils. 

REMOVING  AND  RESETTING  TEETH. — Both  in  England  and  America 
dentists  have  extracted  teeth,  cleaned,  removed  coaries  from  the 
crown  and  replaced  them  in  the  sockets,  where  they  again  took  fresh 
root  and  the  tooth  remained  sound. 

EAR  ACHE. — Indian  remedy. — Take  a  piece  of  a  lean  mutton 
about  the  size  of  a  small  plum.burn  it  till  perfectly  charred  on  the  out- 
side, then  put  in  a  clean  rag  and  squeeze  into  a  spoon,  and  drop  this 
not  too  hot  into  the  ear,  if  too  hot  it  might  be  fatal  in  consequence. 

EAR  ACHE. — Saturate  a  piece  of  cotton  batting  with  arnica, or  3  or 
4  drops  just  warmed  into  the  ear. 

EAR  ACHE. — Moisten  a  piece  of  cotton  with  equal  portions  of 
spirit  campor,  sweet  oil  and  laudanum. 

EAR  ACHE. — Take  a  clove  or  garlic  or  onion,  toast  it  till  soft,  dip 
it  in  sweet  oil  and  put  it  in  the  ear.  The  pain  will  soon  cease.  After 
removal,  insert  some  cotton  wool  to  keep  out  the  cold. 

CURE  FOR  THE  TOOTHACHE. — Take  a  piece  of  sheet  zinc,  about 
the  size  of  a  dime,  and  a  piece  of  silver,  say  25  cents;  place  them 
together,  and  hold  the  defective  tooth  between  them  or  contiguous 
to  them;  in  a  few  minutes  the  pain  will  be  gone,  as  if  by  magic.  The 
zinc  and  silver,  acting  as  a  galvanic  battery,  will  produce  on  the 
nerves  of  the  tooth  sufficient  electricity  to  establish  a  current,  and 
consequently  to  remove  the  pain. 

TOOTHACHE. — A  strong  solution  of  peppermint,  red  pepper  and 
spirits  of  camphor  dropped  on  cotton  wool  then  lay  this  over. 

JUMPING  TOOTHACHE. — Opium  dissolved  in  the  oil  of  cloves, 
dropped  on  a  cotton  wool  and  applied  to  the  tooth  will  relieve. 

MYRRH  AND  BORA.X  TOOTH  WASH. — Rub  well  into  a  mortar,  i  oz. 
of  borax  and  honey,  then  gradually  add  i  quart  spirits  of  wine,  (not 
above  proof)  and  add  i  oz.  of  gum  myrrh  and  red  sandal  wood. 
Macerate  for  14  days,  and  filter.  This  is  an  excellent  wa^h  for  the 
gums  and  mouth. 


HEALTH  NOTES.  55 J 

LEMON  CREAM  FOR  SUNBURNS  OR  FRECKLES. — Sweet  cream,  i  oz.; 
new  milk,  8  ozs.;  juice  of  a  lemon ;  brandy  and  glycerine,  i  oz.; 
alum  i  oz.;  sugar,  i  drachm.  Boil  and  skim. 

To  REMOVE  tan  and  freckles  from  the  face,  apply  glycerine  and 
lemon  juice,  or,  take  some  old  iron  and  put  it  in  water,  and  with  the 
rust  water  apply  the  face. 

FRECKLE  LOTION. — Mix  2  ozs.  of  rectified  spirits  of  wine.  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  muriatic  acid  with  a  pound  of  water ;  apply  with  a  soft 
cloth. 

To  REMOVE  TAN. — Make  a  paste  of  magnesia  and  soft  water ; 
spread  on  the  face  for  a  minute  or  two.  Wash  off  with  castile  soap 
and  rinse  with  soft  water. 

FRECKLE  LOTION. — Two  drachms  cologne  water,  i  drachm,  muri- 
ate of  ammonia,  distilled  or  rain  water,  7  ozs.;  mix  and  use  as  a  wash. 
It  contains  nothing  harmful. 


HEALTH  NOTES  AND  MAXIMS. 

SLEEP,  it  is  said,  by  a  great  thinker,  repairs  the  waste  which  wak- 
ing hours  have  made.  It  builds  up  the  system;  the  night  is  the  repair 
shop  for  the  body.  Every  part  of  the  system  is  thoroughly  overhaul- 
ed, and  the  organs;  tissues  and  substances  are  replenished.  Wak- 
ing consumes  and  exhausts,  sleep  replaces  and  repairs.  A  man  who 
would  be  a  good  worker  must  be  a  good  sleeper.  A  man  has  as 
much  force  in  him  as  he  is  provided  for  in  sleep. 

CURE  FOR  SLEEPLESSNESS.—  It  is  said,  that  when  overwakeful,  get 
out  of  bed,  dip  a  piece  of  cloth  in  water,  lay  this  around  the  wrist; 
then  wrap  the  dry  portion  over  this  and  pin  it,  to  keep  it  in  place. 
This  will  exert  a  composing  inflence  over  the  nervous  system,  and 
producing  a  sweet  sleep,  reducing  the  pulse;  a  handkerchief  folded 
lengthwise  will  do.  It  is  easy  ;  try  it. 

WHO  REQUIRE  THE  MOST  SLEEP.—  Hard  thinking  people.  Time, 
taken  from  necessary  hours  of  sleep,  is  lost,  and  it  soon  causes  days 
of  physical  and  mental  indisposition  to  application  and  often  suffer- 
ing ;  and  which,  often  repeated,  if  not  fatal,  renders  the  violator  of 
natures  laws  more  or  less  a  sufferer  during  life.  The  man  of  busi- 
ness with  a  thousand  cares  upon  his  mind,  the  student,  or  the  over 
working  professional  man,  are  the  greatest  sufferers  from  loss  of 


ep  • 

A  DEADLY  foe  to  a  long  life  is  an  unnatural  and  unreasonable  excite- 
ment Eating  too  much  and  too  fast  and  swallowing  imperfectly 
masticated  food  ;  by  taking  too  much  fluid  at  meals,  keeping  late 
hours  at  night  and  sleeping  too  late  in  the  morning  ;  wearing  cloth- 


552  HEALTH  NOTES. 

ing  too  tight,  so  as  to  relax  the  circulation,  wearing  thin  shoes, 
neglecting  exercise  and  not  washing  the  skin. 

MERCURY. — Never  give  mercury  to  a  debilitated  patient. 

FOB  PERSONS  WHO  WALK  A  GREAT  DEAL. — To  prevent  the  feet 
from  soreness,  rub  them  well  with  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  alco- 
hol and  castor  oil ;  let  it  remain  a  few  minutes,  then  with  a  cloth 
wipe  it  off. 

SLEEP. — One  hour's  sleep  will  often  cure  a  mild  form  of  indiges- 
tion. 

How  TO  PRODUCE  SLEEP. — One  grain  of  camphor  in  the  form  of  a 
pill,  followed  by  t-2  oz.  of  the  infusion  of  hops  ;  or,  1-2  teacupfulof 
hop  tea  with  5  drops  sulphur  ether ;  or,  bathe  the  head  with  cam- 
phor. 

SHOULD  persons  be  overtaken  by  a  shower  it  is  best,  if  at  work, 
to  continue  to  work  busily  until  dry,  if  not  able  to  change  at  once 
your  clothing.  If  walking,  continue  to  walk  rapidly  on  until  your 
clothing  is  dry,  or  on  reaching  home  change  your  clothing  with- 
out delay.  Then  take  something  hot,  as  lemonade,  hot  water  and 
vinegar,  &c.,  instantly;  rub  yourself  down  thoroughly  with  a  coarse 
towel  or  brush.  It  is  best  to  put  on  woolen  clothing  and  wrap  up 
warm  in  bed,  and  take  something  hot  again,  and  go  to  sleep  if  you 
can,  and  in  an  hour  rise  up  and  dress  yourself;  if  it  be  during  the 
day,  then  move  about.  It  possible,  in  removing  damp  clothes,  it 
should  be  done  before  the  fire.  No  one  should  sit  in  damp  cloth- 
ing, for  in  doing  so  persons  are  oftener  than  otherwise  attacked  with 
a  violent  cold,  pneumonia  or  pleurisy,  which,  if  not  fatal,  may  take 
years  to  recover  from. 

AIR,  HOT  AND  COLD. — Warm  air  is  not  necessarily  impure,  nor 
cold  air  necessarily  pure. 

NECESSITY  OF  GOOD  VENTILATION  IN  ROOMS  LIGHTED  WITH  GAS. 
— In  dwelling  houses  lighted  with  gas  the  frequent  renewal  of  the 
air  is  of  great  importance.  A  single  gas  burner  will  consume  oxi- 
gen  and  produce  more  carbonic  acid  to  deteriorate  the  atmosphere 
of  the  room  than  six  or  eight  candles.  If  therefore,  when  several 
burners  are  used,  no  provision  is  made  fur  the  escape  of  the  cor- 
rupted air  and  for  the  introduction  of  pure  air  from  without ;  the 
health  will  necessarily  suffer. 

BLOOD  AND  AIR. — The  air  is  a  purifier  of  the  blood,  and  the  more 
we  take  in  the  more  perfectly  is  that  process  performed  ;  hence  the 
more  a  consumptive  stays  in  the  house  the  more  certain  and  speedy 
his  death. 

WEAK  EYES. — Persons  with  weak  eyes  should  not  read  or  write, 
or  do  fine  sewing,  on  an  empty  stomach, 

WARM  BEDS, — Getting  out  of  a  warm  bed  and  going  to  an  open 
door  or  window  has  been  the  death  of  multitudes. 


HEALTH  NOTES.  553 

FLAXSEED  should  be  free  from  rancidity  when  used  either  in  teas 
or  poultices.  .  . 

.  REMEDY  FOR  A  WEAK  BACK.— Take  a  beefs  gall,  pour  it  into  a 
pint  of  alcohol,  and  rub  the  spine  with  it  frequently. 

INFALLIBLE  REMEDIES.— For  bile,  exercise ;  for  rheumatism,  flan- 
nel and  patience  ;  for  gout,  toast  and  water. 

THE  BED-ROOM.— In  a  word,  the  bed-room  for  the  third  of  this 
mortal  life,  and  that  third  the  most  helpless,  should  be  a  sanctuary 
of  cleanliness  and  order,  in  which  no  injurious  exhalation  can  re- 
main for  a  moment,  and  no  trace  of  uncleanliness  offend  a  single 
sense. 

CHANGING  warm  clothing  too  early  in  spring  often  brings  on  severe 
colds. 

DOMESTIC  REMEDIES  USED  IN  LONDON  IOO  YEARS  AGO. 

FOR  A  BURN.— Whisk  well  together  equal  portions  of  raw  white 
of  egg  and  sweet  oil,  paint  the  burn  with  a  feather,  and  then  apply 
cotton  wool  to  it  well  saturated  with  the  mixture. 

POWDER  TO  CLEAN  THE  TEETH.— Beat  and  sift  through  muslin 
i  1-2  ounce  each  of  dragon's  blood,  cinnamon,  burnt  alum,  very 
fine  ;  rub  a  little  on  the  teeth  every  other  day. 

PILES.— Make  an  ointment  by  stewing  bruised  leaves  of  James- 
town weed  in  lard  or  fresh  butter,  adding  a  few  drops  of  laudanum. 
Or  a  mixture  of  green  white  raspberry  leaves  and  new  milk  or  cream 
together. 

WEAK  EYES. — 5  cents  worth  of  elder  flowers  (or  just  gather 
from  the  shrub);  steep  well  in  a  gill  of  soft  water  in  an  earthen 
vessel  or  one  of  new  tin,  strain  through  a  cloth,  then  add  3  drops 
of  laudanum;  bottle  tight;  keep  in  a. cool  place.  Touch  the 
eyes,  letting  some  get  into  the  eyes.  Put  some  on  a  cloth,  wet  it, 
and  bind  it  to  the  eyes.  Use  freely. 

N.  B.  A  tea  made  of  elder  flowers,  drank  freely,  if  the  eyes  are 
inflamed.  This  tea  cleanses  the  blood.  Avoid  minerals,  they  injure 
the  eye. 

DYSPEPTIC  LYE.— Pour  1-2  gallon  of  boiling  water  over  2  cups  of 
hickory  or  willow  lye  and  i  cup  of  soot  in  a  suitable  vessel ;  stir 
and  let  it  remain  until  perfectly  clear,  then  pour  off  and  bottle 
closely;  1-2  tumbler  full  weakened  with  water  until  palatable;  use 
3  times  a  day.  An  excellent  remedy  for  dyspepsia  ;  I  know  it  is. 

REMEDY  FOR  INDIGESTION.— Boil  1-2  pint  of  white  wheat  3  hours 
in  a  quart  of  water,  or  a  little  more,  if  necessary.  Drink  1-2  pint 
of  the  liquid  2  or  3  times  a  week. 

VALUABLE  REMEDIES.— Dyspepsia,  by  going  without  supper;  spit- 


554  HEALTH  NOTES. 

ting  blood,  by  eating  salt ;  epilepsy,  by  water  melons ;  kidney  affec- 
tions, by  celery;  poison,  olive  or  sweet  oil;  erysipelas,  pounded 
cranberries  applied  to  the  part  affected;  hrydrophobia,  by  onions. 

RHUBARB  TEA  FOR  DYSPEPTICS. — Slice  2  sticks  of  rhubarb  and 
boil  for  15  minutes  in  a  quart  of  water;  strain  and  pour  in  a  bottle 
or  jug,  then  add,  when  cold,  the  juice  of  i  lemon  or  some  powdered 
citric  and  sugar  to  tsste. 

DYSPEPSIA  AND  MILK. — Before  each  meal  drink  a  glass  of  sweet 
milk,  the  richer  the  better.  Or  take  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat  bran 
before  each  meal. 


BILIOUS  COLIC. 

BILIOUS  COLIC. — Make  a  poultice  of  the  bran  of  corn  meal, 
sprinkle  mustard  over  it,  and  apply  it  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  to  the 
bowels.  This  is  said  to  give  instant  relief.  Drink  pepper  or  spear- 
mint tea. 

FOR  COLIC. — One-half  hour  before  or  after  dinner,  eat  6  blue  or 
purple  figs,  either  dried  or  not.  They  are  also  good  for  dyspeptics, 
and  should  be  eaten  daily  until  entirely  relieved. 

N.  B.  The  foregoing  recipe  I  obtained  from  the  widow  of  a  Rus- 
sian physician,  a  highly  accomplished  lady. 

BILIOUS  COLIC. — Give  hot  lemonade,  or  sweet  oil  a  tablespoonful 
every  hour  until  relieved. 

COLIC. — Make  a  strong  tea  of  the  vervain  roots  and  all,  by  pour- 
ing boiling  water  over,  when  washed.  Drink  hot. 

JAUNDICE. 

DRINK  FOR  JAUNDICE. — It  is  said  to  be  a  sure  cure.  Put  equal 
parts  of  saffron  and  soot  in  a  bag  and  let  it  lie  in  a  glass  of  water 
over  night ;  in  the  morning  put  the  yolk  of  an  egg  broken  into  the 
water  and  drink  it.  Do  this  3  mornings,  skipping  3,  until  9  doses 
have  been  taken. 

JAUNDICE. — One  penny-worth  each  of  allspice,  flour  of  sulphur 
and  turmeric ;  these  to  be  well  pounded  together,  and  afterwards  to 
be  mixed  with  1-2  Ib.  of  molasses ;  2  tablespoonfuls  to  be  taken 
every  day. 

LIVER  SPOTS. — Make  a  mixture  of  powdered  sulphur  and  spirits 
of  any  kind,  and  rub  the  place  3  or  4  times  a  day  until  it  almost 
bleeds,  then  wash  with  soap  and  water. 

A  WHOLESOME  DRINK  FOR  BILIOUS  AND  SALLOW-COMPLEXIONED 
PEOPLE. — Boil  1-2  hour  1-2  ounce  each  of  spruce,  hemlock,  dande- 
lion, yellow  dock,  burdock,  sarsaparill^.  bark  in  a  gallon  pf  water ; 


HEALTH  NOTES.  555 

strain  while  hot  through  a  cloth,  then  mix  together  10  drops  each  of 
oil  of  sassafras  and  spruce  and  add  it  to  the  decoction ;  let  it  stand 
till  cold,  and  then  add  1-2  cup  of  yeast  and  1-2  pound  of  brown 
sugar  or  molasses.  After  12  hours  in  the  jar,  closely  covered,  draw 
off  and  bottle.  Drink  plentifully  with  ice  in  it  in  summer. 

FOR  JAUNDICE. — French  physician. — Drink  strong  water  in  which 
carrots  have  been  boiled,  instead  of  water,  and  eat  the  carrots. 

CONSUMPTION. 

A    PLEASANT   PBEVENTATIVE    OF   CONSUMPTION. — Set    2     new   laid 

eggs  in  hot  water  until  they  are  thoroughly  warm,  without  suffering 
the  whites  to  get  hard,  then  make  a  small  hole  in  the  top  of  each, 
pour  off  the  whites  as  expeditiously  as  possible,  and  fill  up  the  eggs 
with  rose  water,  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon ;  warm  them  again 
in  the  embers  or  stove  and  eat  them  as  soon  as  sufficiently  done. 
This  may  be  taken  twice  a  days  will  be  found  very  strengthening. 

LEMON  IN  CONSUMPTION. — London  Lancet. — Put  a  dozen  lemons 
in  cold  water  and  bring  to  a  boil ;  boil  slowly  until  the  lem®ns  are 
soft,  but  not  too  soft;  then  squeeze  until  all  the  juice  is  extracted; 
add  sugar  to  your  taste  and  drink.  In  this  way  use  i  dozen  lemons 
a  day.  If  they  cause  pain  or  loosen  the  bowels  too  much,  lessen 
the  quantity  to  5  or  6  a  day,  until  you  are  better,  and  then  begin 
again  with  a  dozen  a  day.  After  using  5  or  6  dozen  the  patient 
will  begin  to  gain  flesh  and  enjoy  food.  Hold  on  to  the  lemons  and 
still  use  them  very  freely  for  several  weeks  more.  A  free  use  ol 
lemon  or  lime  juice  will  always  relieve  a  cough.  Most  people  feel 
poorly  in  the  spring,  but  if  they  eat  a  lemon  before  breakfast  every 
day  for  a  week,  with  or  without  sugar,  as  they  like,  they  will  find  it 
better  than  any  medicine.  Lemon  juice  used  according  to  the 
above  recipe  will  sometimes  cure  consumption,  and  is  good  for  en- 
feebled persons.  It  certainly  is  "not  bad  to  take,"  besides  possess- 
ing the  negative  virtue  that  "  it  will  do  no  harm,  if  it  does  no 
good." 

FOOD  FOR  CONSUMPTION. — Strong  mullen  tea  sweetened*  with 
brown  sugar,  and  drink  freely  for  6  months.  It  is  good  for  the 
blood,  and  strengthens  the  system. 

N.  B.  Gather  it  in  July,  dry  it  in  the  shade,  and  keep  in  clean 
paper  bags. 

PULMONARY  DISEASE. — Go  early  in  the  morning,  and  when  the 
pine  bushes  begin  to  put  out  tender  buds,  eat  the  buds  on  a  fasting 
stomach.  The  taste  is  a  little  acidulous  and  not  unpleasant.  The 
resinous  oil  contained  in  the  pine  buds  will  do  good  to  weak  lungs. 
The  tea  of  these  is  good,  closely  bottled,  with  a  little  Holland  gin. 


556  HEALTH  NOTES. 

added  to  keep  it  from  souring.  This  can  be  kept  for  winter  use, 
and  in  wet  weather,  when  the  patient  cannot  go  out,  which  should 
not  be  neglected  in  dry  mornings.  Even  chewing  the  buds  is  bene- 
ficial. The  white  pine  buds  are  best. 

FOR  CONSTIPATION. 

SENNA. — Infuse  for  one  hour  then  strain  i-i  ounce  of  senna;  1-2 
dram  sliced  ginger;  1-2  pint  of  boiling  water.  Taste  concealed  by 
some  black  tea  or  coffee  sweetened.  See  that  nothing  enters  that 
is  spurious. 

GRAPE  SEEDS  CURE  COS*ITVENESS  and  the  pulp  is  pure  nutriment. 
Cracked  wheat  is  good,  bnt  should  not  be  eaten  all  the  time.  It 
promotes  the  growth  of  the  bones  and  strength  of  the  teeth,  vigor 
of  the  brain  and  life  and  elasticity  of  the  whole  man.  Five  ounces 
of  sugar  a  day  will  increase  a  man's  weight  one  pound  in  a  week. 

GOOD  FOR  THIRST  AND  CONSTIPATION. — One-half  gill  of  dried 
raspberries,  in  a  pint  of  the  purest  water,  in  a  closely  covered 
earthern  vessel,  set  in  a  cool  place.  Let  stand  3  or  4  hours,  then 
eat  the  fruit,  and  drink  the  water. 

HEADACHE. 

EAT  THE  BLANCHED  STALKS  OF  CELERY. — Good  for  nervousness 
and  heart  disease. 

INVALUABLE  FOR  NERVOUS  PERSONS. — 1-2  dr.  of  ammonia,  com- 
pound tincture  of  cardoman,  1-2  ounce;  oil  of  lavender,  8  drops; 
mint  water,  3  oz.  Mix,  divide  and  take  in  3  doses. 

WEAK  NERVES. — Dr.  Floterean. — Drink  freely  of  scullcap  tea. 

NKRVOUS  HEADACHE. — One  quart  of  cider,  3  tablespoonfuls  each 
of  white  mustard  seed  and  burdock  seed,  a  small  radish  root  well 
steeped  together.  To  be  kept  in  a  bottle  well  corked.  Dose. — A 
wine  glassful  2  or  3  times  a  day. 

LEMONS  FOR  HEADACHE. — Take  a  gill  of  lemon  juice.  It  is  a 
good  stomachic,  gives  tones  to  the  nerves,  and  is  good  for  rheuma- 
tism and  neuralgia,  if  taken  in  large  doses. 

SICK  HEADACHE. — Mrs.  S. — Take  some  chicken  gall  and  com- 
mon flour,  and  make  into  pills  the  average  size  and  when  the  head 
ache  is  coming  on,  take  from  3  to  5  of  the  pills  and  it  gives  relief. 
The  recipe  was  given  by  a  lady  who  had  used  them  for  years  with 
great  benefit. 

FOR  HEADACHE. — Pour  a  few  drops  of  ether  on  one-half  ounce 
of  gum  camphor  to  pulverize,  add  to  this  an  equal  quantity  of  cor- 
bonate  ammonia  pulverized;  add  20  drops  peppermint;  mix  and  put 
in  an  open  mouthed  bottle  with  a  glass  stopper. 


HEALTH  NOTES.  557 

OBSTINATE  NAUSEA. — Apply  a  hot  mustard  plaster  to  the  pit  of 
the  stomach.  In  ordinary  cases,  a  flannel  dipped  in  hot  camphor, 
wring  out,  and  while  pouring  apply  to  stomach.  It  often  relieves. 
A  drop  of  spirits  of  camphor  in  a  spoonful  of  water  and  administer- 
ed every  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  for  an  hour  or  longer,  allays  the 
nauseau;  The  mustard  plaster  should  be  applied. 

DYSPEPTICS  AND  DYSPEPSIA. 

LIME  WATER,  ITS  VALUE. — Take  a  large  lump  of  unslacked  lime 
and  pnt  into  a  new  wooden  vessel  not  painted,  and  pour  over  it 
gradually,  four  gallons  of  hot  water,  and  stir  it  perpetually,  then  let 
it  settle,  and  pour  the  clear  fluid  into  bottles  and  cork  closely.  It 
is  an  excellent  remedy  for  children  while  teething  and  in  summer 
complaints,  allowing  a  teaspoonful  to  a  cup  of  milk  or  tea  and  for 
any  person  with  diarrhea,  adding  it  to  milk.  It  is  pleasant  to  take. 
It  will  prevent  milk  from  curdling  after  a  hot  night  and  prevent  it 
from  souring  in  tea  or  coffee.  As  a  cleanser  and  purifier  it  is  valua- 
ble to  any  housekeeper,  and  even  in  the  nursery.  A  cupful  or  more 
made  up  with  the  sponge  of  cake  or  bread  made  at  night,  will  pre- 
vent it  fermenting  and  make  it  sweet. 

MINT  JULEP.— 3  or  5  sprigs  of  mint  fresh  gathered  and  put  in  a 
tumbler  one-half  full  of  sherry,  put  some  pounded  ice  in  a  second 
tumbler,  and  pour  the  mint  and  sherry  over  it,  rapidly  transfenng 
the  liquor  several  times  from  one  tumbler  to  another  for  a  minute 
or  two  in  ice,  till  frozen  partices  form  over  the  top.  This  is  a  very 
refreshing  drink. 

PREVENTATIVE  OF  DYSPEPSIA  AND  LUNG  DISEASE. — German.— 
Raw  beef;  chopped  up  fine  with  onions,  eaten  any  time.  Persons 
soon  learn  to  eat,  if  not  like  it. 

FOR  HEARTBURN. — Juice  of  one  orange,  water  and  lump  sugar  to 
flavor  in  proportionto  the  acidity  of  the  orange,  bicarbonate  of  soda 
about  1-2  teaspoonful.  Mix  orange  juice,  water,  and  sugar  together 
in  a  tumbler,  then  put  in  the  soda  and  stir,  and  the  effervesence  en- 
sues. 

DIGESTIVE  TINCTURE. — Powdered  rhubarb,  orange  peel,  carraway 
seed,  each  one  ounce.  Infuse  the  ingredients  in  a  quart  of  white 
wine  for  three  days,  pour  off  and  take  a  half  wmeglassful  when 
sitting  to  dinner.  Excellent  for  costiveness. 

PULMONARY  SYRUP.— Four  ozs.  each  of  white  hoarhouud  and 
spikenard  root,  2  ozs.  each  of  boneset  leaves,  greener  the  better,  colt's 
foot  root,  slippery  elm  bark,  unpowdered,  blood  root,  green  or  dry, 
and  elecampagne ;  fresh  cumfrey  root,  and  poplar  bark,  i  oz.  each; 
i- a  oz  of  lobelia,  hoarhound  and  snake  root.  Put  these  ingredients, 


558  HEALTH  NOTES, 

into  a  large  pitcher,  add  a  pint  of  N.  O.  molasses  and  pour  over  them 
1-2  gal.  water.  Stir  up  thoroughly,  steep  and  cover  closely ;  when 
cold,  add  2  pints  of  pure  Holland  gin  and  bottle  closely.  A  wineglass- 
ful  3  times  a  day,  but  if  the  cough  is  troublesome,  take  a  tablespoon- 
ful  every  hour  in  the  day  until  you  go  to  sleep  at  night.  If  you  wake 
up  with  a  spell  of  coughing,  take  a  spoonful,  and  the  first  thing  in 
the  morning.  It  is  good  for  hoarseness,  asthma,  &c.  Nearly  all  of 
these  valuable  herbs  can  be  grown  in  the  garden.  The  blood  root, 
poplar  and  boneset  are  easily  found  in  nearly  all  of  the  southern, 
western  and  middle  states,  where  they  can  be  had  fresh,  if  in  the 
country. 

COUGHS. 

FOR  COUGH. — Genuine  German. — One  pint  of  flax-seed,  3  oz. 
rock  candy,  i  oz.  root  liquorice,  i  ball  root  liquorice,  10  cents  ex- 
tract of  dandelion.  Boil  the  flaxseed  in  3  quarts  of  water,  till  re- 
duced to  2  quarts,  then  strain  out  through  a  thin  bag,  and  add  to 
this  liquid  the  rock  candy,  the  liquorice  and  dandelion  ;  boil  down 
to  2  pints  and  strain  again ;  bottle  and  take  a  spoonful  when  the 
cough  is  troublesome.  I  have  tried  this  valuable  remedy. 

COUGH  REMEDY. — Add  4  or  5  lumps  of  sugar  to  a  tumbler  of  ice 
water  and  every  few  minutes  take  a  teaspoonful  for  a  hacking  cough 
or  tickling  in  the  throat;  take  it  often,  ice  cold. 

AN  OLD  LADY'S  DOMESTIC  REMEDY  FOR  COUGH. — Make  a  syrup 
of  a  strong  decoction  of  the  common  mullen.  Allow  1-2  Ib.  of  rich 
sugar  to  i  pint  of  the  tea,  boil  to  a  syrup  and  bottle  for  use.  It  is 
very  healing  to  the  lungs,  even  for  inflammation  and  bleeding  of  these 
vital  organs.  It  is  better  to  gather  the  plant  in  July,  dry  it  in  the 
shade,  and  keep  in  paper  bags. 

DRY  COUGH. — Wesley. — Chew  Peruvian  bark  and  swallow  the 
spittle.  It  seldom  fails  to  cure. 

STOMACH  PLASTER  FOR  A  COUGH. — Melt  together  an  oz.  each  of 
resin,  Burgundy  pitch  and  beeswax,  in  a  clean  pipkin,  and  then  stir 
in  3-4  oz.  of  common  turpentine  and  1-2  oz.  of  oil  of  mace.  Spread 
it  on  a  sheep's  leather  or  stiff  cloth,  grate  some  nutmeg  over  the 
whole  plaster  and  apply  it  warm  to  the  region  of  the  stomach. 

SYRUP  OF  GARLIC. — Dr.  Warren. — Take  8  or  10  bulbs  of  fresh 
garlic,  sliced  and  bruised,  i  pint  of  diluted  fruit  vinegar,  2  Ibs.  of 
refined  sugar ;  macerate  the  garlic  in  to  ozs.  of  the  diluted  apple 
vinegar  in  a  glass  vessel,  to  express  the  liquor,  then  mix  the  rest 
with  what  remains  of  the  acid  and  again  express,  till  enough  has 
passed  to  make  the  whole,  when  filtered,  measure  a  pint ;  then  pour 
the  filtered  liquor  on  the  sugar  in  a  bottle;  and  shake  till  dissolved. 

BLOOD  ROOT  SYRUP. — Mash  up  3  ozs.  of  blood  root  or  less,  a 


HEALTH  NOTES. 


spoonful  of  lobelia  leaves  and  seeds,  a  large  spoonful,  neaped,  of  loaf 
sugar,  simmered  for  30  minutes  in  3  cupfuls  of  water  till  it  looks 
clear  and  begins  to  thicken  ;  when  cold,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  para- 
goric.  Dose:  i  tablespoonful  for  an  adult  and  i  teaspoonful  fora 
child,  or  less,  taken  now  and  then.  This  is  excellent  in  throat  and 
lung  diseases,  and  difficulty  in  breathing  and  strangulation. 

REMEDY  FOR  BRONCHITIS—  Take  honey  in  the  comb,  squeeze  i 
out  and  dilute  it  with  a  little  water  ;  wet  the  lips  and  mouth  occa- 
sionally with  it.     It  has  never  been  known  to  fail  in  cases  where 
children  had  throats  so  swollen  as  to  be  unable  to  swallow.     It  is  a 
simple  remedy;  and  comes  well  recommended. 

A  COUGH  MIXTURE.  —One  oz  of  liquorice,  1-2  oz.  gum  arable,  4 
teaspoonfuls  af  antimonial  wine.  Keep  it  in  a  cool  place  and  take 

1  tablespoonful  when  needed. 

BALSAM  OF  WILD  CHERRY.—  Mix  4  grains  acetate  of  morphine,  2 
fluid  ozs  of  the  tincture  of  blood  root,  3  fluid  drachms  of  antimonial 
wine,  3  fluid  ozs.  of  syrup  of  wild  cherry. 

COUGH  TEA.—  Domestic.—  Make  a  very  strong  tea  of  the  1 
of  life  everlasting  ;  strain  it  through  a  cloth,  and  to  every  quart  put 

2  oz  of  liquorice  root  cut  up  in   small  pieces,  and  2  ozs.  of  figs  or 
raisins  cut  up  ;  boil  all  together  for  2  minutes.     Drink  freely  after 
adding  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  taking  care  to  keep  out  of  the  cold  air 

for  several  hours.  ,  . 

HOP  SYRUP  FOR  A  COUGH.—  One  oz.  hops,  i  pint  water,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  flaxseed,  boil  till  reduced  to  one-half  and  strain  ;  add 
1-2  pint  of  molasses  or  brown  sugar,  boil  till  thick.  Dose,  i  tabl< 

SP  SYRUP  OF  SUNFLOWER  SEEDS  FOR  COUGH.—  One  gill  of  sunflower 
seed,  boil  in  a  quart  of  water  to  one-half,  strain  it,  add  i  leaspoon- 
sul  of  loaf  sugar,   1-2  pint  gin,  bottle;  shake  before  using. 
when  the  cough  is  troublesome.     Good  also  for  whooping  cough. 

^OARHOUND  COUGH  SYRUP—  Boil  hoarhound,  liverwort,  spikenard 
and  yellow  ferrilla  in  a  quart  of  water  to  one  half  or  less  ;  strain,  add 
black  molasses,  and  boil  a  little  again.  Use  as  often  as  required,  3 
times  a  day  or  oftener. 

A  SOUTHERN  COUGH  MIXTURE.—  One  teaspoonful  home  made 
beaten  mustard,  i  teaspoonful  of  home  made  cayenne  pepper  ( 
Chili,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  a  tumblerful  of  pure  honey. 

WHOOPING    COUGH. 

WHOOPING  COUGH.—  With  its  mode  of  treatment.—  Is  purely  a 
spasmodic  disease  of  an  infectious  or  epidemic  nature,  anc 


560  HEALTH  NOTES. 

known  by,  when  in  advanced  shape,  the  peculiar  long  inspiration 
or  "whoop,"  which  attends  it,  and  those  who  are  with  the  patient 
often  have  every  symptom  of  -the  genuine  whooping  cough,  called 
sympathetic  cough,  which  though  not  dangerous,  is  verY 
agonizing.  Symtoms. — Whooping  cough  comes  on  with  sneezing, 
running  at  the  nose  slight  oppression  of  breathing,  weakness  in  the 
organs  of  sight,  thirst,  quick  pulse,  hoarseness  and  a  hard,  dry 
cough.  At  the  expiration  of  two  or  three  weeks  (there  being  no 
change  in  the  disease)  the  whoop  sets  in,  the  peculiar  feature  of  the 
malady,  which  is  so  common,  that  it  is  unnecessary  to  treat  the 
subject,  physiologically.  Vomiting  and  bleeding  at  the  mouth  or 
nose,  are  favorable  symptoms.  The  treatment  varies  greatly  with 
the  nature  of  the  attack  and  the  state  of  the  health  of  the  child.  At 
first,  there  is  generally  some  degree  of  acute  bronchitis  and  the  lower- 
ing measures  will  be  necessary  to  keep  up  a  state  of  nausea  and 
vomiting,  giving  the  child  doses  of  ipecac,  and  antimonial 
wines,  in  equal  parts,  and  quantities  varying  from  half  to  one  and  a 
half  teaspoonsfuls  once  a  day,  or  when  the  expectoration  is  hard 
and  difficult,  give  the  following  cough  mixture  ever  four  hours.  Of 
syrup  of  squils,  1-2  oz.;  antimonial  wine,  i  oz.;  laudanum,  15  drops; 
syrup  of  toulou,  2  drams;  water,  1-2  oz.;  mix  well.  The  dose  is 
from  1-2  teaspoonful  to  a  dessert  spoonful.  If  the  cough  is  very 
bad,  the  warm  bath  is  used,  and  either  one  or  two  leeches  applied 
on  the  breastbone,  or  a  small  blister  laid  on  the  lower  part  of  the 
throat.  If  the  bowels  are  costive,  sweet  spirits  of  nitre,  ipecac,  and 
rhubarb  may  be  used. 

WHOOPING  COUGH. — Simmer  together  over  a  slow  fire  equal  parts 
of  vinegar,  sweet  oil,  and  honey,  for  a  few  minutes,  then  bottle  and 
cork  closely  for  use.  Excellent  in  the  troublesome  disease.  Take 
a  spoonful  as  often  as  necessary. 

CURE  FOR  WHOOPING  COUGH. — The  late  discovery  of  a  cure  for 
whooping  cough  by  inhaling  the  ordors  of  the  gas  house,  is  found  to 
be  of  real  benefit  (so  said  by  physicians).  The  children  are  taken 
to  the  gas  works,  where  they  breathe  the  not  very  pleasant  air  there 
produced,  and  there  is  something  in  the  chemical  combination  that 
cures  whooping  cough.  The  people  at  the  gas  works  state  that 
during  the  last  12  months,  300  cases  of  whooping  cough  have  thus 
been  experimented  upon. 

WHOOPING  COUGH. — Pound  a  cupful  of  flax  seed,  3  oz.  of  liquor, 
3  spoonfuls  of  strained  honey;  3  spoonfuls  of  loaf  sugar;  put  these 
into  4  cupfuls  or  a  quart  of  water;  boil  till  reduced  to  one-half;  give 
frequently.  Hogs  lard  and  molasses  in  equal  quantities  are  good 
with  a  little  laudanam,  and  also  sugar  and  butter  stewed  together. 

WHOOPING  COUGH  SYRUPS. — Strongest  West  India  rum,   i  pint; 


HEALTH  NOTES.  561 

anise  oil,  2  oz.,  honey,  i  pint;  lemon  juice,  4  oz.;  mix.  Adults  i 
tablesoonful,  4  times  a  day.  Children  2  teaspoonfu)  with  sugar  and 
water  4  times  a  day. 

WHOOPNG  COUGH  MIXTURE.— Equal  portions  of  honey,  New  Eng- 
land rum,  hnseed  oil.  Dose. — i  teaspoonful,  when  the  cough  is 
troublesome. 

CHRONIC  SORES. 

CHRONIC  SORES  (excellent.) — Make  a  poultice  of  chick  weed. 
The  juice  mixed  with  lard  is  good  for  erysipelas  and  other  cu- 
taneous diseases. 

FOR  SORES. — Make  a  smooth,  soft  paste  of  brown  sugar  and 
yellow  soap  and  apply  it. 

OBSTINATE  ULCERS  may  be  cured  with  sugar  dissolved  in  a  strong 
decoction  of  walnut  leaves. 

ULCERS.— Dry  and  reduce  to  powder  a  black  walnut  leaf  and 
strew  it  on  the  sore,  and  then  lay  several  walnut  leaves  over  it ; 
bind.  Or  foment  morning  and  night  with  a  decoction  of  walnut 
leaves,  and  then  apply  them ;  bind  some  leaves  over  the  sore.  Or 
boil  some  walnut  leaves  in  water  with  a  little  molasses  or  sugar. 
Dip  a  cloth  in  the  mixture  and  apply  once  in  two  days.  A  valuable 
remedy. 

FOR  MORTIFICATION — A  poultice  of  oatmeal  and  hops.  Apply. 
A  poultice  of  oatmeal  and  charcoal  is  also  good. 

ANOTHER  FOR  WHITE  SWELLING. — Aunt  Nancy  Patterson,  col- 
ored.— Boil  together  smart  weed,  chamber  lye  and  wheat  bran ; 
make  a  poultics  of  this  and  apply  to  the  whole  limb ;  wrap  it  up  in 
it.  This,  has  also  cured  as  the  other,  when  physicians  could  do 
nothing  to  relieve  when  the  bones  came  out  in  splinters. 

URINE,  BLOODY.— Wesley.— Make  a  strong  tea  of  yarrow  and 
drink  it  copiously  twice  a  day. 

HOT  OR  SCALDING  URINE. — Ground  ivy  in  flax  seed  tea  and  a 
little  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  and  root  of  asparagus.  Drink  also  cool- 
ing and  mucilaginous  drinks.  Buttermilk  is  also  good. 

HORSE  RADISH. — It  is  said  that  an  infusion  of  the  fresh  root  drank 
freely  every  night,  will  cause  perspiration  and  free  flow  of  urine  and 
will  consequently  cure  dropsy.  It  promotes  digestion,  the  fresh 
ground  root  in  vinegar,  eaten  with  meat,  strengthens  the  stomach. 

DROPSY. 

OATS  GOOD  FOR  DROPSY  AND  HEART  DISEASE. — Two  handfuls  of 
common  oats,  not  cleaned;  boil  in  3  quarts  of  water  for  1-2  hour. 
Strain  the  decoction ;  take  a  teacupful  frequently  instead  of  water. 


562  HEALTH  NOTES. 

CURE  FOR  DROPSY. — Aunt  Betsy,  colored. — Make  a  tea  of  to- 
bacco stems  or  a  weak  one  of  tobacco  leaves,  and  bathe  the  limbs 
of  the  patient  in  it. 

DECOCTION  OF  ELDER  BUSH. — One  ounce  of  elder  bark,  i  pint 
each  of  water  and  milk  ;  boil  to  1-2  and  strain.  Dose,  a  spoonful 
3  times  a  day  in  dropsy  and  cutaneous  diseases. 

DROPSY  ON  THE  CHEST. — Cut  small  1-2  pound  of  milk  weed 
(dried),  pour  on  it  2  pints  of  scalding  water  and  simmer  to  2  cup- 
fuls.  When  cool,  add  a  pint  of  the  best  Holland  gin ;  pour  both 
liquors  and  roots  into  a  decanter,  cork  tight,  and  let  stand  12 
hours.  Give  a  grown  up  person  2  tablespoonfuls  every  3  hours, 
day  and  night.  If  too  nauseating,  give  less.  Its  good  effects 
will  be  seen  in  4  or  5  days.  It  has  often  been  tried,  and  seldom 
without  happy  results. 

FOR  DROPSY. — Decoction  of  broom,  1-2  pint;  i  oz.  of  cream 
of  tartar,  2  drachms  of  tincture  of  squills ;  a  third  part  3  times  a 
day. 

DROWNING  PERSONS. 

DROWNING  PERSONS,  How  TO  RESTORE  SUCH  TO  LIFE. — At  all 
sea-bathing  places,  during  summer,  some  one  or  more  persons 
are  certainly  drowned.  Dr.  Hall  says  that  unless  in  cold  weather 
do  not  waste  time  in  carrying  the  body  to  a  house ;  but  right  on 
the  spot,  within  a  rod  of  the  water's  edge,  remove  all  clothing  as 
far  down  as  the  navel,  place  it  on  its  face  over  a  bundle  of  straw 
or  other  soft  substance,  so  that  the  stomach  shall  rest  upon  it ;  press 
spasmodically  with  both  hands  on  the  back,  so  as  to  force  all  the 
water  possible  out  of  the  lungs  through  the  throat  and  mouth  out- 
ward ;  the  next  instant  place  the  body  face  upwards  with  some- 
thing under  the  small  of  the  back,  and  draw  out  the  tongue ;  then 
let  another  person  get  astride  of  the  body,  and  with  both  hands,  one 
on  each  side  of  the  ribs,  force  the  water  out  of  the  lungs,  through 
the  mouth,  for  a  few  seconds ;  then  withdraw  the  hands  as  suddenly 
as  possible,  put  them  on  the  ribs  again,  and  proceed  as  before,  the 
object  being  to  push  out  the  water  with  one  operation,  and  by  the 
other  allow  the  air  to  rush  into  the  lungs  to  supply  its  place.  Keep 
on  working  in  this  way  until  you  see  signs  of  life,  even  if  you  have 
to  work  for  two  or  three  hours.  As  soon  as  breathing  is  restored, 
convey  to  a  bed,  if  possible,  and  wrap  up  the  naked  body  from  head 
to  foot  in  woolen  blankets,  in  a  warm  room,  with  plenty  of  iresh  air. 
Meanwhile  give  a  drink  of  some  hot  liquid  every  five  minutes  for 
the  first  hour  or  two,  allowing  the  body  the  most  perfect  rest  possi- 
ble all  the  time,  and  besides  promote  composure  of  mind  with  as 
much  encouragement  as  can  be  conscientiously  given.  Life  is  lost 


HEALTH  NOTES.  563 

by  drowning  simply  by  the  water  getting  into  the  lungs  and  filling 
hem  up,  and  thus  preventing  any  air  from  getting  into  them,  on 
the  same  principle  of  being  smothered  in  any  other  way.  Get 
the  water  out  of  the  lungs  and  give  natural  warmth,  which  is 
antagonistic  to  death.  On  these  depend  the  recovery  of  the 
patient. 

CATARRH  is  not  a  disease  of  the  nose,  but  disease  showing  itself 
in  the  nose,  a  local  exhibition  of  the  constitutional  derangement. 

CURE  FOR  CATARRH.— To  i  ounce  of  glycerine  add  15  or  20 
drops  of  carbolic  acid,  and  thoroughly  apply  with  a  small  sponge 
to  be  found  at  all  drug  stores,  known  as  the  ear  sponge.  The  results 
are  said  to  be  happy. 

ALUM  FOR  CATARRH.— Snuff  pulverized  alum,  and  the  disease  will 
disappear. 


ASTHMA 


CURE  FOR  ASTHMA.— One  ounce  of  boneset,  i  ounce  slippery 
elm,  i  ounce  flaxseed,  i  stick  of  liquorice  then  simmer  them  in  i 
quart  of  water;  strain  carefully,  then  add  1-2  pound  of  loaf  su^ar; 
when  cold,  bottle  tight.  Dose,  i  tablespoonful  3  or  4  times  a 
day. 

To  ALLEVIATE  ASTHMA.— For  moderating  the  paroxysm,  no  agent 
is  more  valuable  in  many  cases  than  smoking  tobacco/  It  acts  like  a 
charm.  Wearing  a  gauze  veil  over  the  face  prevents  the  evil.  Keep 
the  bowels  open. 

ASTHMA,  PARSNIP  COFFEE  A  CURE  FOR.— Have  your  parsnips 
very  clean  and  dry,  cut  them  in  slices  very  thin,  bake  them  until 
browned  through,  then  grind  or  beat  them  fine.  Make  a  pure  cof- 
fee and  sweeten  it  with  sugar  and  milk 


COLDS. 


COLD  ON  THE  CHKST.— A  flannel  dipped  in  boiling  water  and 
sprinkled  with  turpentine,  laid  on  the  chest  as  quickly  as  possible, 
will  relieve  the  most  severe  cold  or  hoarsness. 

JUNIPER  TEA  FOR  A  GOLD.— Take  i  cupful  of  Juniper  berries,  i 
pint  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  down  a  little ;  drink  hot  when  going 
to  bed.  Excellent  for  colds  and  to  bring  on  a  profuse  perspira- 
tion. 

To  CURE  AND  PREVENT  A  COLD  IN  THE  HEAD.— A  Belgian  Physi 
cian.— Rub  the  back  of  the  head  with  hartshorn,  diluted,  rub  briskly 
to  prevent  taking  cold ;  rub  with  the  same  2  or  3  times  a  week. 

TREATMENT  OF  COLD  IN  THE  HEAD  BY  FRICTION. — M.  Sanety. — 
Apply  briskly  to  the  back  of  the  head,  lavender  water,  etc.  It  has 


562  HEALTH  NOTES. 

CURE  FOR  DROPSY. — Aunt  Betsy,  colored. — Make  a  tea  of  to- 
bacco stems  or  a  weak  one  of  tobacco  leaves,  and  bathe  the  limbs 
of  the  patient  in  it. 

DECOCTION  OF  ELDER  BUSH. — One  ounce  of  elder  bark,  i  pint 
each  of  water  and  milk  ;  boil  to  1-2  and  strain.  Dose,  a  spoonful 
3  times  a  day  in  dropsy  and  cutaneous  diseases. 

DROPSY  ON  THE  CHEST. — Cut  small  1-2  pound  of  milk  weed 
(dried),  pour  on  it  2  pints  of  scalding  water  and  simmer  to  2  cup- 
fuls.  When  cool,  add  a  pint  of  the  best  Holland  gin ;  pour  both 
liquors  and  roots  into  a  decanter,  cork  tight,  and  let  stand  12 
hours.  Give  a  grown  up  person  2  tablespoonfuls  every  3  hours, 
day  and  night.  If  too  nauseating,  give  less.  Its  good  effects 
will  be  seen  in  4  or  5  days.  It  has  often  been  tried,  and  seldom 
without  happy  results. 

FOR  DROPSY. — Decoction  of  broom,  1-2  pint;  i  oz.  of  cream 
of  tartar,  2  drachms  of  tincture  of  squills ;  a  third  part  3  times  a 
day. 

DROWNING  PERSONS. 

DROWNING  PERSONS,  How  TO  RESTORE  SUCH  TO  LIFE. — At  all 
sea-bathing  places,  during  summer,  some  one  or  more  persons 
are  certainly  drowned.  Dr.  Hall  says  that  unless  in  cold  weather 
do  not  waste  time  in  carrying  the  body  to  a  house ;  but  right  on 
the  spot,  within  a  rod  of  the  water's  edge,  remove  all  clothing  as 
far  down  as  the  navel,  place  it  on  its  face  over  a  bundle  of  straw 
or  other  soft  substance,  so  that  the  stomach  shall  rest  upon  it ;  press 
spasmodically  with  both  hands  on  the  back,  so  as  to  force  all  the 
water  possible  out  of  the  lungs  through  the  throat  and  mouth  out- 
ward ;  the  next  instant  place  the  body  face  upwards  with  some- 
thing under  the  small  of  the  back,  and  draw  out  the  tongue ;  then 
let  another  person  get  astride  of  the  body,  and  with  both  hands,  one 
on  each  side  of  the  ribs,  force  the  water  out  of  the  lungs,  through 
the  mouth,  for  a  few  seconds  ;  then  withdraw  the  hands  as  suddenly 
as  possible,  put  them  on  the  ribs  again,  and  proceed  as  before,  the 
object  being  to  push  out  the  water  with  one  operation,  and  by  the 
other  allow  the  air  to  rush  into  the  lungs  to  supply  its  place.  Keep 
on  working  in  this  way  until  you  see  signs  of  life,  even  if  you  have 
to  work  for  two  or  three  hours.  As  soon  as  breathing  is  restored, 
convey  to  a  bed,  if  possible,  and  wrap  up  the  naked  body  from  head 
to  foot  in  woolen  blankets,  in  a  warm  room,  with  plenty  of  ireshair. 
Meanwhile  give  a  drink  of  some  hot  liquid  every  five  minutes  for 
the  first  hour  or  two,  allowing  the  body  the  most  perfect  rest  possi- 
ble all  the  time,  and  besides  promote  composure  of  mind  with  as 
much  encouragement  as  can  be  conscientiously  given.  Life  is  lost 


HEALTH  NOTES.  563 

by  drowning  simply  by  the  water  getting  into  the  lungs  and  filling 

hem  up,  and  thus  preventing  any  air  from   getting  into  them,  on 

;  same    principle  of  being    smothered  in    any  other  way.     Get 

the    water  out  of  the  lungs    and    give  natural    warmth,  which  is 

antagonistic    to    death.      On    these   depend   the    recovery  of  the 

patient. 

CATARRH  is  not  a  disease  of  the  nose,  but  disease  showing  itself 
in  the  nose,  a  local  exhibition  of  the  constitutional  derangement. 

CURE  FOR  CATARRH.— To  i  ounce  of  glycerine  add  15  or  20 
drops  of  carbolic  acid,  and  thoroughly  apply  with  a  small  sponge 
to  be  found  at  all  drug  stores,  known  as  the  ear  sponge.  The  results 
are  said  to  be  happy. 

ALUM  FOR  CATARRH. —Snuff  pulverized  alum,  and  the  disease  will 
disappear. 


ASTHMA 


CURE  FOR  ASTHMA.— One  ounce  of  boneset,  i  ounce  slippery 
elm,  i  ounce  flaxseed,  i  stick  of  liquorice  then  simmer  them  in  i 
quart  of  water;  strain  carefully,  then  add  1-2  pound  of  loaf  su^ar- 
when  cold,  bottle  tight.  Dose,  i  tablespoonful  3  or  4  times  a 
day. 

To  ALLEVIATE  ASTHMA.— For  moderating  the  paroxysm,  no  agent 
is  more  valuable  in  many  cases  than  smoking  tobacco.  It  acts  like  a 
charm.  Wearing  a  gauze  veil  over  the  face  prevents  the  evil.  Keep 
the  bowels  open. 

ASTHMA,  PARSNIP  COFFEE  A  CURE  FOR.— Have  your  parsnips 
very  clean  and  dry,  cut  them  in  slices  very  thin,  bake  them  until 
browned  through,  then  grind  or  beat  them  fine.  Make  a  pure  cof- 
fee and  sweeten  it  with  sugar  and  milk 


COLDS. 


COLD  ON  THE  CHKST.— A  flannel  dipped  in  boiling  water  and 
sprinkled  with  turpentine,  laid  on  the  chest  as  quickly  as  possible, 
will  relieve  the  most  severe  cold  or  hoarsness. 

JUNIPER  TEA  FOR  A  COLD.— Take  i  cupful  of  Juniper  berries,  i 
pint  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  down  a  little ;  drink  hot  when  going 
to  bed.  Excellent  for  colds  and  to  bring  on  a  profuse  perspira- 
tion. 

To  CURE  AND  PREVENT  A  COLD  IN  THE  HEAD.— A  Belgian  Physi 
cian.— Rub  the  back  of  the  head  with  hartshorn,  diluted,  rub  briskly 
to  prevent  taking  cold ;  rub  with  the  same  2  or  3  times  a  week. 

TREATMENT  OF  COLD  IN  THE  HEAD  BY  FRICTION.— M.  Sanety. — 
Apply  briskly  to  the  back  of  the  head,  lavender  water,  etc.  It  has 


564  HEALTH  NOTES. 

great  power  of  arresting  cold  in  the  head,  and  if  repeated  2  or  3 
times  a  week,  will  prevent  its  occurrence  in  individuals  who  are  con- 
stantly subject  to  them  from  slight  causes. 

NIGHT  SWEATS. 

To  RELIEVE  NIGHT  SWEATS. — Dissolve  15  grains  of  sulphate  of 
quinine  in  1-2  oz.  essence  of  tansy,  1-4  oz.  alcohol,  1-4  oz.  water,  30 
drops  muriatic  acid.  A  teaspoonful  taken  2  or  3  times  a  day.  In 
connection  wtth  this  remedy,  cold  sage  tea,  or  a  tablespoonful  of 
the  fresh  juice  and  a  gill  of  water  is  recommended  to  be  used  freely. 

NIGHT  SWEATS  AND  CONSUMPTION. — From  1-2  to  i  1-2  drachms 
daily  of  phosphate  of  lime.  In  the  majority  of  cases,  it  will  remove 
the  trouble  or  diminish  it. 

FOR  HOARSENESS. 

REMEDY  FOR  HOARSENESS. — Chewing  the  green  root  or  leaves  of 
horseradish  will  give  instant  relief  to  the  most  obstinate  case  of 
hoarseness.  The  green  root,  of  course,  possesses  the  most  virtue, 
though  the  green  learei  are  good ;  both  lose  their  strength  when 
dry.  Persons,  just  before  begining  to  speak  in  public,  will  not  be 
troubled  with  hoarseness  if  they  use  the  the  radish  freely. 

FOR  HOARSENESS. — In  a  pint  bowl  squeeze  the  juice  of  1-2  lem- 
on, add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  loaf  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  of  glycerine  and 
i  full  tablespoonful  of  whiskey  ;  pour  over  this  boiling  hot  water  to 
nearly  fill  the  bowl  and  drink  hot,  just  before  going  to  bed. 

FOR  Loss  OF  VOICE,  OR  HOARSENESS. — Beat  the  white  of  an  egg, 
the  juice  of  i  lemon  and  white  sugar  together ;  from  time  to  time 
take  a  teaspoonful. 

FOR  WEAK  LUNGS 

DANDELION  COFFEE. — Dried  dandelion  roots,  1-2  lb.;  chickory,  i 
oz.;  coffee,  3  Ibs.,  all  powdered  after  parching,  or  roasting ;  mix  and 
prepare  as  common  coffee.  Said  to  be  a  tonic,  when  used  as  a 
beverage  once  or  twice  a  day.  It  has  been  greatly  puffed  in  papers 
under  a  strange  name. 

MARSH  MALLOWS. — A  tea  of  the  green  or  dried  leaves  is  excellent 
for  a  cough,  sweetened  with  honey,  sugar  or  molasses.  N.  B. — It 
is  good  for  kidney  affections,  diseases  of  the  bowels,  and  also,  if 
made  into  a  paste  candy,  for  coughs. 

WEAK  LUNGS. — Make  a  strong  tea  of  a  large  handful  each  of  hoar- 
hound  and  mullen,  mixed,  then  add  a  cupful  of  molasses  and  stew 
to  a  syrup,  the  quicker  the  better.  A  tablespoonful  2  times  a  day. 


HEALTH  NOTES.  565 


SPRAINS 

CURE  FOR  SPRAINS. — A  Paris  remedy. — If  the  ankle  is  sprained, 
for  instance,  let  the  operator  hold  the  foot  in  his  hands  with  the 
thumbs  meeting  on  the  swollen  part,  these  having  been  previously 
greased,  are  pressed  successively,  with  increasing  force,  on  the  in- 
jured, painful  spot  for  15  minutes.  This  application,  repeated  sev- 
eral times,  will,  in  the  course  of  the  day,  enable  the  patient  to  walk 
when  other  means  failed  to  relieve  him. 

A  SPEKDY  CURE  FOR  A  SPRAIN. — A  large  spoonful  each  of  honey 
and  salt,  the  white  of  an  egg ;  the  whole  beaten  together  for  i  hour, 
then  let  it  stand  and  anoint  the  place  sprained  with  the  mixture, 
keeping  the  place  well  bandaged.  This  has  been  known  to  relieve 
in  24  hours,  the  patient  walking  free  from  pain. 

FOR  SPRAINED  ANKLE. — Apply  cloths  dipped  in  salt  and  cold  wa- 
ter, elevating  the  ankle  and  not  walking. 

SPRAINS. — Wash  well  the  root  of  the  black  walnut  tree,  scrape  off 
the  outside  skin,  mash  it  to  a  poultice,  then  stir  in  vinegar  to  moisten 
it  to  a  mush  and  apply  with  bandages  to  the  seat  of  trouble.  Mois- 
ten it  every  3  or  4  hours. 

NEURALGIA. 

A  SIMPLE  REMEDY  FOR  NEURALGIA. — Take  2  large  tablespoonfuls 
of  cologne  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  salt,  mix  them  well  togeth- 
er in  a  small  bottle.  Every  time  you  have  acute  affection  of  the 
facial  nerves  or  neuralgia,  simply  breathe  the  fumes  in  your  nose 
from  the  bottle  and  you  will  be  immediately  relieved. 

To  CURE  NEUKALCUA. — 1-2  dram  of  sal  ammonia  in  i  oz.  of  cam- 
phor spirits.  Dose. — i  teaspoonful,  and  repeat  several  times,  at  an 
interval  of  five  minutes  until  the  pain  ceases;  try  it. 

NEURALGIA  IN  FACE  OR  HEAD. — Oil  of  peppermint  applied  with 
a  small  camel's  hair  pencil  to  the  parts  effected,  will  give  instant  re- 
lief. 

VIOLENT  NEURALGIA,  OR  Tic  DOLOREUX. — Apply  ice  to  the  part 
four  or  five  minutes,  wait  five  or  six  minutes  and  apply  again.  The 
painful  sensation  prodced  by  the  ice  is  relieved  by  holding  alcohol 
in  the  mouth  till  the  natural  warmth  returns. 

RHEUMATISM. 

CHRONIC  RHEUMATISM, — i  oz.  of  Peruvian  bark,  1-2  oz.  of 
powdered  rhubarb,  infused  in  a  bottle  of  wine.  Take  one,  two,  or 
three  wineglassfuls  daily,  as  will  be  found  necessary  to  keep  the 


566  HEALTH  NOTES. 

bowels  gently  open.  Wear  flannel  next  to  the  person,  and  make 
frequent  use  of  the  flesh  brush. 

LUMBAGO. — As  a  form  of  counter  initiation,  a  new  and  successful 
mode  of  treating  lumbago,  has  been  advocated  by  several  eminent 
physicians,  which  consists  in  the  instantaneous  application  of  a  flat- 
iron  bottom  to  the  skin,  which  has  been  gently  heated  in  a  spirit 
lamp.  It  should  be  drawn  lightly  over  the  effected  part.  It  is 
spoken  so  highly  of,  that  it  deserves  attention. 

FOR  RHEUMATISM. — Make  a  poultice  of  the  beaten  leaves  of  the 
weeping  willow  and  bind  it  to  the  joint.  Renew  if  necessary. 

CHRONIC  RHEUMATISM  BITTERS. — Prickly  ash  berries,  spikenard 
root,  yellow  poplar,  and  white  flowered  dogwood  barks,  of  each  1-2 
pound,  all  finely  powdered  and  put  in  a  gallon  jug  and  fill  up  with 
good  brandy.  Dose. — Wineglassful  3  times  a  day,  before  meals. 

ACUTE  RHEUMATISM. — Dr.  B.'s  recipe. — 1-2  oz.  each  of  sulphur, 
flowers  of  mustard,  saltpetre,  Turkey  rhubarb,  1-4  oz.  of  .powdered 
griacum;  mix.  Dose. — A  tablespoonful  taken  every  other  night, 
and  omitting  three  nights,  and  in  a  wineglass  of  cold  water  that  has 
been  well  boiled. 

LEMON  GRASS  OIL  is  used  as  a  stimulant  in  rheumatic  affections; 
called  oil  of  verbna  by  preference,  'grows  in  the  West  Indies  and 
Australia.  Some  times  called  ginger  grass  oil,  oil  of  geranium,  oil 
of  spikenard.  It  is  a  good  liniment.  Should  be  cut  while  in  flower, 
tied  in  bundles  and  distilled  as  other  flowers. 

GOOD  LINIMENT  FOR  RHEUMATISM. — i  gill  each  of  alcohol,  beef's 
gall,  spirits  of  turpentine  and  sweet  or  olive  oil;  4  oz.  gum  camphor. 
Put  them  all  in  a  bottle  and  shake  it  up;  use  it  2  or  3  times  a  day,  a 
tablespoonful  at  a  time.  Apply  it  to  the  parts  effected  before  the 
fire.  It  is  good  also  for  frost  bites. 

ARNICA. — i  dram  tincture  of  arnica,  in  3  gills  of  alcohol.  Un- 
rivaled for  all  fresh  sprains,  cuts,  contused  wounds,  bruises,  for  rheu- 
matic joints,  gouty  pains,  pains  in  the  feet  and  limbs  from  walking. 
Shake  well  before  using. 

RHEUMATISM. — 1-4  oz.  of  saltpeter  in  a  pint  of  alcohol;  shake 
well  and  bathe  parts  effected,  wetting  red  flannel  with  it,  lay  it  on. 
If  not  a  perfect  cure,  it  relieves  the  torment  and  agony,  and  reduces 
the  inflamation  and  swelling. 

RHEUMATISM,  INFLAMATORY. — 1-2  oz.  saltpeter  pulverized,  in  1-2 
pint  of  sweet  oil,  bathe  the  parts  effected.  . 

ANOTHER  FOR  RHEUMATISM. — Mrs.  Dr.  Kemp. — Salycilate  of 
sodium,  saturate  with  water,  wet  a  cloth  or  rag  and  apply  externally. 
N.  B.  While  taking  salycilic  acid  internally,  ten  grains  three 
times  a  day. 


HEALTH  NOTES.  567 


POISONOUS  BITES,  STINGS,  HYDROPHOBIA. 

To  REMOVE  VIRUS  IN  HYDROPHOBIA. — Apply  a  cupping  glass 
over  the  wound  as  soon  as  possible,  and  keep  it  exhausted,  then 
apply  lunar  caustic  or  nitric  acid,  and  bind  up  the  wound  as  tightly 
as  the  patient  can  bear  it.  Only  one  cauterization  is  necessary. 

YOUATT'S  CORE  FOR  HYDROPHOBIA.— Youatt  (the  great  horse 
doctor)  says  he  has  been  bitten  8  or  10  times,  and  always  cured 
himself  by  rubbing  nitrate  of  silver  on  the  wound.  It  should  be 
applied  as  soon  after  the  accident  as  may  be.  In  6  weeks  the 
virus  is  disseminated  through  the  system  and  then  hope  is  gone. 

PREVENTATIVE  OF  HYDROPHOBIA. — Profuse  prespiration  by  steam- 
ing, or  any  other  way  needful,  which  it  is  hoped  may  never  be. 

SNAKE  BITE. — An  Indian  remedy. — Take  indigo  and  dissolve  it 
in  chamber  lye,  wet  a  cloth  with  the  liquor  and  place  it  on  the  bite. 

POISONOUS  STINGS  OR  BITES. — Put  on  the  place  at  once,  a  small 
piece  of  raw,  fresh  meat  of  any  kind. 

WHEN  POISONED. — One  teaspoonful  each  of  mustard  and  salt  in  a 
tumbler  of  water,  taken  at  once;  it  will,  almost  instantaneous- 
ly, produce  nausea.  Then  give  the  whites  of  2  eggs  in  a  cup  of 
strongest  coffee  ;  if  no  coffee,  swallow  the  egg  with  new  cream ;  if 
no  cream,  use  sweet  milk  ;  if  no  milk,  swallow  the  eggs. 

FOR  ANY  KIND  OF  STING  OR  VENOMOUS  BITE.— Apply  cucumber, 
honey,  or  a  plaster  of  fresh  yeast,  which  renew  as  often  as  it  be- 
comes hot  or  dry.  If  the  bite  is  dangerous,  as  that  of  an  adder,  give 
immediately  a  teaspoonful  of  spirits  of  hartshorn  in  a  wineglass  of 
cold  water,  and  40  drops  more  every  15  minutes,  till  the  violent 
symptoms  abate,  or  till  medical  advice  is  procured  ;  for  a  child  the 
dose  must  be  lessened  according  to  the  age. 


POISON  OAK. 


POISON  OAK.  (Domestic.)— Its  antidode.— A  salve  made  of  equal 
parts  of  butter,  salt  and  saleratus;  it  is  a  sure  and  speedy  cure.  If 
a  person  expects  to  be  exposed  to  its  poison,  he  should  take  a  box 
of  this  salve  with  him  and  slightly  anoint  the  hands  and  face.  This 
will  often  prevent  the  poison  from  taking  effect. 

CURE  FOR  CALIFORNIA  POISON  OAK.— Dr.  S.  A.  Brown,  U.  S.  N. 
— From  10  to  20  drops  of  bromine  to  i  oz.  of  olive  oil,  casmoline  or 
glycerine,  mix  well  together,  then  apply  by  gently  rubbing  the  effect- 
ed part  2  or  3  times  a  day,  especially  on  going  to  bed  at  night,  and 
a  cure  will  be  effected  in  24  hours.  The  application  of  glycerine  is 
painful,  and  posesses  no  advantage  over  the  olive  oil.  NOTE. — The 


568  HEALTH  NOTES. 

bromine  is  so  volatile  that  the  solution  should  be  renewed  within  24 
hours  after  its  preparation.  N.  B. — This  should  be  welcome  news 
to  campers  out  and  picknickers  generally. 

SWEET  OIL  AN  ANTIDOTE  FOR  POISON  OF  ANY  KIND. — Every  house- 
keeper should  keep  a  bottle  of  it;  no  one  should  hunt  in  woods  where 
there  is  a  probability  of  meeting  with  poisonous  reptiles,  without  a 
supply  of  it.  The  patient  must  take  a  spoonful  immediately  and 
bathe  the  wound  for  a  cure.  To  cure  a  horse,  requires  8  times  as 
much  as  for  a  man.  It  is  good  for  even  extreme  cases  of  snake 
bite,  even  those  of  long  standing.  It  will  cure  bloat  in  cattle,  caused 
by  eating  too  freely  of  green  herbage,  (grass  or  clover),  stings  of 
bees,  spiders,  or  other  insects.  The  poison  of  ivy  and  other  poison- 
ous herbage. 

SALVES  OF  VARIOUS  KINDS. 

ELDER  BARK  SALVE  FOR  SORE  EYELIDS. — Remove  the  outer  and 
take  the  inner  bark  of  elder,  stew  in  lard.  Apply  the  salf  e  to  sore 
eyelids. 

PLANTAIN,  good,  combined  with  lard,  for  salt  rheum.  Its  juice 
will  cure  the  bite  of  snakes.  It  should  be  beaten. 

SALVE  FOR  ALL  SCROFFULOUS  SORES,  ETC. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Stephenson, 
Arizona. — To  a  teacupful  of  lard,  free  from  salt,  add  and  mix  thor- 
oughly, sulphate  of  zinc  or  white  precipitate,  about  the  size  of  a 
bean. 

LINIMENTS. 
A  VALUABLE  LlNIMENT  FOR  SPRAINS,  BRUISES  AND  BURNS. Equal 

parts  of  spirits  ammonia  and  petroleum. 

RHEUMATISM  LINIMENT. — Steep  for  10  days  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
cayenne  pepper  in  6  gills  of  whiskey  and  a  gill  of  neat-foot  oil  or 
lard,  then  strain  it.  Wet  a  flannel  with  it  and  apply  it  to  the  joints, 
and  to  the  side  for  pleurisy,  or  any  numbness.  It  will  afford  relief. 

BLUE  FLAG. — This  grows  in  gardens,  but  particularly  in  swampy 
places,  by  the  banks  of  streams  of  water  and  in  meadows.  Its  flow- 
ers are  blue,  variegated  with  yellow,  white  and  purple.  It  is  an 
excellent  and  active  cathartic,  given  in  doses  of  a  teaspoonful  of  the 
juice,  diluted  in  a  little  water.  If  a  decoction  of  it  is  drank  constant- 
ly, it  is  good  in  all  kinds  of  ulcerous  complaints. 

DECOCTION  OF  POPPIES — Poppy  heads,  sliced,  4  ozs.;  4  pints  wa- 
ter; boil  1-4  hour  and  strain.  This  decoction  is  employed  for  its 
soothing  effects  in  painful  swelling  and  excoriations,  etc.  Its  effi- 
cacy is  increased  by  adding  a  cupful  of  vinegar. 


HEALTH  NOTES. 


FELON.— Common  rock  salt,  mix  with  equal  parts  of  turpentine, 
apply  ;  when  dry,  more  ;  it  will  cure  in  24  hours. 

SALT  PETRE  A  CURE  FOR  FELON. — Make  a  poultice  of  pulverized 
salt  petre,  just  moistened  to  a  paste,  put  on  a  cloth,  apply  and  bind 
it  on. 

A  SIMPLE  CURE  FOR  A  FELON.— When  the  part  begins  to  swell, 
wrap  a  cloth  around  it  and  then  saturate  it  and  keep  it  wet  with  the 
tincture  of  lobelia.  If  applied  in  time,  it  rarely  fails  to  cure. 

SALVE  FOR  A  FELON.— A  salve  may  be  made  by  burning  a  table- 
spoonful  of  copperas,  then  pulverize  it  and  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of 
eggs.  It  will  relieve  the  pain  and  cure  the  felon  in  24  hours.  Then 
heal  with  a  mixture  of  2-3  cream  and  1-3  soft  soap.  Soak  the  part 
in  warm  water,  and  then  daily  apply  the  healing  salve. 

RUSSIAN  SALVE.— Equal  parts  of  yellow  wax  and  sweet  oil ;  melt 
slowly  and  carefully  stirring,  when  cooling,  stir  in  a  little  glycerine. 
Good  for  sore  lips  and  all  kinds  of  wounds  and  sores. 

FELON  is  a  rising  caused  by  a  wound,  deep  enough  to  reach  the 
bone  and  inflame  it;  a  boil  between  the  bone  and  sinew,  and  the 
quickest  and  surest  way  is  to  lance  it  to  the  bone.  It  will  give  in- 
stant relief,  as  the  extraction  of  a  tooth  will  relieve  tooth  ache. 

BONE  FELON  ARRESTED  BY  CONGELATION.— Dr.  James  B.  Walker, 
St.  Louis,  Mo.,  says,  in  the  Medical  Archives,  that  holding  the  finger 
affected  2  hours  in  a  freezing  mixture,  alternating  the  application, 
the  felon  will  cease  to  be  painful,  or  cease  to  be  felt. 

TREATMENT  OF  WHITLOW.— Steam  the  hands  in  bitter  herbs  for  30 
or  40  minutes,  bathe  it  frequently  in  strong  hot  lye-water,  as  long  as 
it  can  be  borne,  apply  a  poultice  of  flaxseed  and  slippery  elm,  with 
a  little  brandy ;  a  yeast  poultice,  or  one  of  powderd  hops,  which  is 
very  effective  to  relieve  pain,  gentle  apperients,  tonics  and  nutitious 

food. 

GOITRE,  OR  ENLARGED  NECK.— Iodide  of  potassium,  2  drachms; 
iodine,  i  drachm  ;  water,  2  1-2  ozs.,  mix  and  shake  for  a  few  min- 
utes and  pour  into  a  bottle  or  vial  for  internal  use.  Dose:  5  to  10 
drops  before  each  meal,  taken  in  a  little  water.  Then  with  a  feather 
wet  the  goitre  from  another  bottle  of  the  same  mixture  night  and 
morning  until  relieved. 

CURE  FOR  BOILS.— Mix  a  little  beer  with  brewers  yeast  and  take 
it  3  times  a  day ;  it  will  cause  the  boils  to  disappear. 

SIMPLE  CURE  FOR  BOILS.— Wet  the  pimple  or  boil,  especially  in 
the  middle,  with  sweet  oil  and  camphor.  Apply  with  the  end  of  the 
finger. 


570  HEALTH  NOTES. 

GUM  BOIL. — To  mature  its  ripening,  divide  a  fig  and  apply  it. 

AN  OLD  LADY'S  REMEDY  FOR  CARBUNCLES,  BOILS  AND  RISINGS. 
— Mix  together  wheat  flour,  molasses,  a  little  pounded  or  pulverized 
Indian  (wild)  turnip,  so  as  to  form  a  paste,  put  on  a  cloth  and  apply 
as  early  as  possible  to  arrest  it. 

KIDNEY    DISEASES. 

FOR  GRAVEL. — Dr.  Motharty. — Ground  ivy  steeped  in  ale,  then 
dilute  with  water  and  sweaten  with  clear  honey.  Use  at  pleasure 
2  or  4  times  a  day. 

WATERMELONS,  SEEDS  AND  ROOTS. — This  melon  is  nourishing, 
cooling,  and  diuretic,  when  fully  ripe  and  not  stale.  The  seeds 
make  a  good  vermifuge,  and  tea  in  gravel;  the  pulp  of  the  root  is 
cathartic. 

GRAVEL  OR  STRANGURY. — i  spoonful  of  honey,  i  spoonful  of  oat 
meal.  Pour  to  them  a  quart  of  boiling  water;  stirring  the  mixture 
well;  let  it  cool,  and  drink  one-half  at  night  before  going  to  bed, 
and  the  other  half  in  the  morning,  fasting.  Stir  it  well  before  drink- 
ing; repeat  this  every  day  constantly,  making  the  drink  fresh  every 
day. 

CURE  FOR  KIDNEY  AFFECTIONS.. — "Aunt  Betsey,"  colored. — Get 
your  druggist  to  mix  in  the  proper  proportion,  sweet  spirits  of  niter, 
spirits  of  turpentine  and  balsam  of  copaiva.  If  the  patient  can 
stand  it,  give  three  drops  of  the  mixture  .before  breakfast  and  four 
before  lunch;  if  delicate,  give  one  drop  less. 

PEACH  LEAVES  \ND  THE  KIDNEYS. — A  tea  made  of  fresh  leaves  is 
a  grand  remedy  for  a  kidney  difficulty. 

THE  SMART  WEED  is  very  valuable  in  kidney  diseases.  Make 
a  strong  decoction  of  the  weed  with  a  white  flower  and  drink  it  cold 
until  relieved.  It  is  a  pleasant  and  valuable  remedy. 

URINATING  IN  BED. — German. — To  prevent. — Boil  well  together 
making  a  strong  decoction  of  the  inside  bark  of  white  oak,  juniper 
berries  and  onions.  Remove  from  the  fire,  pour  the  contents  into  a 
wooden  vessel  not  too  long,  then  camomile  flowers,  thyme,  and 
mullein  flowers,  so  as  to  make  it  strong.  Place  the  vessel  under  a 
seat,  place  yourself  over  it,  then  put  a  hot  stone  in  it,  then  pin 
the  clothes  close,  wrap  yourself  up,  so  as  to  steam  yourself  well. 
Be  careful  not  to  get  cold  too  suddenly.  Get  in  bed  and  cover  up 
well  with  a  hot  brick  or  stone  at  your  feet.  Drink  a  cupful  of 
mullein  tea  as  hot  as  you  can.  Repeat  this  several  nights  in  suc- 
cession. Do  not  expose  yourself  to  drafts,  nor  take  cold. 

LINIMENT  FOR  WHITE  SWELLING  AND  PALSY. — Boil  to  a  strong 
tea,  the  root  and  the  flower  of  the  bear  foot.  Strain  it,  then  stew 


HEALTH  NOTES.  57 * 

with  sweet  hog's  lard  until  all  the  water  has  evaporated.  Keep  in 
a  close  jar.  Rub  well  the  parts  effected,  and  wrap  in  flannel.  .Re- 
pent until  benefited. 

LINIMENT  IN  USE  AT  THE  PENNSYLVANIA  HO-PITAL. — Mrs.  JJ 
Kemp.— Yolk  of  one  egg;  acetic  acid  two  oz.;  oil  of  turpentine  three 
oz  ;  water  three  oz.;  apply  externally. 

LINIMENT  OF  CAMPHOR.— P.  S.— Camphor  i  drachm;  olive  < 
fluid  oz.;  gently  heat  the  oil,  add  the  camphor,  cut  small,  and  agitate 
till  dissolved.     The  Dublin  colle,  ?  orders  only  one-half  the  above 
camphor.     Stimulant,    anodyne,  and  resolvent;  in  sprains,  bruises, 
and  rheumatic  pains,  glandular  enlargements,  ei.c. 

MEXICAN  MUSTANG  LINIMENT.— Mix  2    fluid   oz.  petroleum,  i 
fluid  oz.  ammonia  water,  and  i  fluid  dram  of  brandy. 

MAGIC  LINIMENT— Alcohol,  i  quart;  gum  camphor,  4  oz.      For 
cuts  or  calks  in  horses  or  cattle  (in  winter)  it  has   no  equal;  but   it 
must  be  applied  often.     For  human  flesh  use  twice  the  amount 
alcohol,  and  no  liniment  will  be  found  superior  to  it. 

AN  EXCELLENT  LINIMENT  is  prepared  by  mixing  6  oz.  of  spirits  o: 
wine  and  2  oz.  of  spirits  ammonia  and  2  drams  of  lavender. 

LOTION  OF  ARNICA  FOR  BRUISES,  SPRAINS,  BURNS,  &c.— Take  i 
ounce  of  arnica  flowers  dried,  and  put  them  in  a  wide  mouthed 
bottle,  pour  over  just  enough  scalding  water  to  moisten  them,  art 
wards  about  i  or  1-2  pints  spirits  of  wine.  In  case  of  a  burn  or 
bruise,-  etc.,  wet  a  cloth  in  the  arnica  and  lay  it  on  the  part  effected. 
Renew  this  occasionally,  and  the  pain  will  be  removed. 

OINTMENTS. 

TRASK'S  OINMENT.— Equal  parts  of  resin,  lard;  and  tobacco;  steep 
the  tobacco  to  get  the  strength  of  it.  A  little  brown  sugar  and 

castile  soap.  ,. 

BROWN  OINTMENT.— i  drachm  extract  of  henbane,  1-2  oz.  yellow 
wax  2  1-2  drachms  precipitate,  i  1-4  drachms  pure  powdered  zinc  3 
oz  fresh  butter;  melt  and  mix,  and  add  to  it  1-2  drachms  of  camphor 
dissolved  in  olive  oil;  good  for  cutaneous  diseases,  ulcers,  sore  lips, 

'  ^EEN  OINTMENT— Make  a  very  strong  tea  by  boiling  the  leaves 
of  iamestown  weed  (jimson  weed)  then  in  proportion  to   i  gallon  c 
the  tea,  add  3  pounds  of  sweet  and  fresh  lard.     Stew  till  the  water 
has  evaporated.     Strain  through  muslin,  and  to  each  pound    add  i 
ounce  spirits  of  turpentine;  add  it  when  the  lard  is  nearly  col 
it  in  jars  and  cover  closely. 

WAX  OINTMENT.— Take  of  white  wax,  4  oz.;  spermaa  tti,  3  o, 
olive  oil,  i  pint ;  mix  them  together  over  a  slow  fire.     Stir  them  very 


572  HEALTH  NOTES. 

briskly  without  ceasing  until  cold.     A  good  lip  salve ;  sore  nipples ; 
for  the  face  and  hands. 


DISINFECTANTS. 

A  VALUABLE  DISINFECTANT. — Put  into  a  stone  jar  a  handful  each 
of  worm -wood,  lavender,  mint,  sage  and  rosemary,  and  pour  on 
them  a  gallon  of  the  best  cider  vinegar.  Set  it  in  a  warm  place  and 
let  it  stand  for  8  days,  then  strain  it  off  and  to  every  pint  put  3-4  oz. 
of  spirits  of  wine  and  camphor.  Rub  the  temples  and  loins  with 
this  preparation,  when  exposed  to  contagion,  before  going  out  in  the 
morning;  wash  the  mouth  with  it,  snuff  some  up  the  nostrils  and 
carry  a  small  sponge  dipped  in  it  to  smell  occasionally,  on  visiting 
where  there  is  any  danger  of  infection.  To  those  who  are  not  op- 
posed to  the  odor,  garlic  and  assafoetida  may  be  added. 

PINE  TAR  A  VALUABLE  DISINFECTANT. — Pine  tar  is  not  only  a  val- 
uable, powerful  disinfectant,  but  most  healthful  for  man  and  beast. 
To  use  it  for  man  or  horses,  take  a  kettle  with  wood  coals  and  cover 
the  same  with  the  parings  of  horses'  hoofs,  or  the  horns  of  cattle 
broken  up  ;  when  burning  well,  pour  a  little  pine  tar  over  the  whole 
and  carry  the  kettle  through  the^different  rooms,  or  set  it  where  you 
choose. 

ONIONS  AS  A  DISINFECTANT. — Onions  placed  in  the  room  where 
there  is  small  pox,  will  blister  and  decompose  rapidly  ;  besides  this, 
they  will  prevent  the  spread  of  the  disease.  As  a  disinfectant  they 
have  no  equal,  when  properly  used;  but  keep  them  out  of  the 
stomach,  no  one  should  eat  onions  that  attends  or  is  about  small  pox 
patients. 

PURE  AIR  is  the  best  disinfectant. 

To  DESTROY  the  odor  of  carbolic  acid  on  the  hands,  rub  them  with 
flaxseed  meal.a  little  dampened.  Ground  mustard  and  water  will 
also  deodorize  it.  Cod  liver  oil  bottles  may  be  purified  in  the  same 
way. 

THE  SICK   ROOM. 

THE  sun's  rays  should  penetrate  every  part  of  a  house  as  nearly 
as  possible,  by  opening  the  windows,  especially  the  bedrooms.  If 
there  is  no  sunshine,  let  the  breeze  penetrate  and  cleanse  away  the 
stagnant  air. 

FLOWERS  and  herbs  should  be  excluded  from  a  bed  or  sick  room. 

ATMOSPHERE  OF  A  SICK  ROOM. — Slice  onions  in  saucers  and  set 
them  in  the  room  and  they  will  absorb  all  the  bad  air.  Renew  them 
often  and  keep  the  air  pure. 


HEALTH  NOTES.  573 

THE  bed  room  shonld  be  a  sanctuary  of  cleanliness  and  order,  in 
which  no  injurious   exhalations  can  remain  for  a  moment,  an. 
trace  of  uncleanliness  offend  a  single  sense. 

To  PURIFY  a  sick  room  of  smells,  use  bromo  chlora  urn  in  the  prc 
portion  of  r  tablespoonful  to  8  of  water;  dip  cloths  in  t  ^prepara- 
tion and  hang  them  in  the  room.     A  weak  solution  of  this  w>  U  purrty 
any  surface  by  applying  it  after  the   article  has  been  »  »"*; 
It  is  excellent  for  wounds  and  sores  that  are  offensive,  and  will  pui 
fy  the  breath  by  rinsing  the  mouth  with  it. 

LEUCORRHEA. 

INJECTION  FOR  LEUCORRHEA  OR  WHITES.—  Inner  bark  of  spotted 
alder'  alder  bSc  and  leaves.     Inject  tea  twice  a  day  with  a  proper 


^SEDY  FOR  WniTES.-Injection  of  green   tea,  4  or  5  grains  of 
sugar  of  lead  in  a  wine  glass  of  soft  or  ram   water,  given  as  an  u 

JC  Wm'xES.-A  tea  of  blood  root  injected  in  the  womb  is  good  for 
this  weakenine  complaint  ;  use  a  female  syringe. 
1  FRENCH  REMEDY  "FOR  THE  WHITES.-MIX  up  the  b£«*££ 
va  with  wax  or  pure  fat  and  a  little  opium    until  of  the  .con  ist 
of  dou^h.     It  is  then  made  into  a  plug  and  introduced  into  the  pa*- 
°  where  it  may  be  worn  for  half  an  hour  morning  and  evening. 
The  Trench  women  prefer  this  treatment  to  taking  medicine  in  the 
usual  way. 


MENSTRUATION  OR  MENSES. 

.—  One  tablespoonful  of  cream 


pint  of  water  till  reduced  to  1-2,  strain  and  drink  hot  after 
bed   and  cover  up  closely.     Repeat  2  or  3  nights. 

PANFUL  MKNSTRUATiON.-Ten  drops  of  laudanum 
gin  and  pennyroyal  tea.    The  patient  in  bed  with  a  hot 

Mix  and  make  into  pills  with  a  very  little  gum  water. 


57  }  HEALTH  NOTES. 

Fi  MALI  IlKGULAfiNG  PILLS. — Aloes,  red  oxide  of  iron,  white  tur- 
pentine, each  i  oz.  each,  melt  the  turpentine  and  strain;  mix  well 
form  it  into  pills  with  mucilage,  and  take  2  or  3  per  day. 

PILES. 

FOR  PILES. — Jamestown  weed  leaves  (vulgar  jimson)  bruised  and 
stewed  in  lard  to  a  salve.  Excellent.  Apply  the  ointment. 

OINTMENT  FOR  PILES  — Four  ounces  hog's  lard,  2  drachms  cam- 
phor, powdered;  i  ounce  galls,  1-2  ounce  laudanum;  mix.  Make 
an  ointment  to  be  applied  every  night  at  bed  time. 

PILES,  A  SAILOR'S  REMEDY. — Take  the  pitched  rope  and  pick  it 
into  lint,  put  on  a  cloth  and  wear  it  under  the  afflicted  part.  The 
cloth  may  be  pasted  on  the  under  garment.  The  tar  will  cure  in  a 
few  days. 

GOLDEN  SALVE. — Two  quarts  of  raw  linseed  oil,  3  Ibs.  of  good 
fresh  resin,  3  pounds  of  beesewax  ;  melt  thoroughly  together  and 
turn  it  into  tin  boxes.  This  is  the  best  known  salve  for  burns,  scalds, 
flesh  wounds,  old  sores,  piles,  &c. 

N.  B.  Smaller  quantities  may  be  made,  using  the  same  propor- 
tions. 

CANCERS  AND  OTHER  SORES. 

CANCER. — Dr.  Motherly. — One  handful  of  crow's  foot,  3  good 
sprigs  in  flower  of  may  weed  (dog  fennel)  well  pounded,  then  add 
7  teaspoonfuls  each  of  pure  flowers  of  sulphur  and  white  dry  ar- 
senic ;  mix  well  together,  bottle  perfectly  air-tight.  When  used,  mix 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  make  a  plaster  as  large  as  the  sore,  being 
careful  that  it  does  not  get  in  the  eye  or  mouth  or  nose.  Let  it  come 
off  of  itself. 

A  NEW  CAUSE  OF  CANCER. — The  physicians  of  New  York  report 
an  alarming  increase  of  cancer  on  the  nose,  caused  by  the  practice 
of  wearing  eye  glasses  that  are  held  to  the  bridge  of  the  nose  by  a 
spring. 

AN  AMERICAN'S  METHOD. — The  Americans  boil  olive  oil  to  a  pro- 
per consistency,  then  make  a  salve  of  it.  It  is  said  by  the  travel- 
ers to  be  a  good  remedy. 

FOR  CANCER. — Mrs. Kellogg. — If  the  cancer  is  not  very  much 
advanced,  apply  a  poultice  made  of  yolk  of  eggs  and  salt  well  stir- 
red together.  It  is  very  soothing,  and  should  be  applied  until  the 
core  comes  out. 

N.  B.  This  does  not  apply  to  rose  cancer. 

ANOTHER,  OF  THE  JUICE  OF  SHEEP  SORREL. — Mrs.  Kellogg. — 
Beat  the  juice  of  sheep  sorrel,  a  large  handful  or  more,  then  squeeze 


THE  NURSERY.  575 

the  juice  through  a  thin  rag  into  a  plate  or  saucer  and  let  the  water 
evaporate,  then  while  soft  spread  the  thick  juice  or  gum  on  a  cloth 
the  size  of  the  cancer,  which  plaster  will  take  out  the  core  with  the 
roots,  but  if  the  plaster  is  not  large  enough  there  will  be  a  dark  edge 
around  the  place  from  which  the  core  was  taken ;  then  apply  an- 
other larger  one.  ^ 

THE  NURSERY. 

COLIC  IN  BABIES.— Give  a  drop  or  two  of  the  essence  of  anise-seed 
in  a  little  warm  water. 

DR.  GODFRY'S  CORDIAL  FOR  BABIES. — One  pint  of  black  molasses, 
I  pint  of  water,  2  oz.  best  laudanum,  2  oz.  best  alcohol,  2  oz.  salt  of 
tartar,  10  drops  oil  of  sassafras ;  shake  these  ingredients  well  together 
and  bottle  for  use.  Good  for  colic,  gripings  and  looseness  of  the 
bowels  ;  it  is  good  also  for  grown  up  persons.  For  babies,  1-2  tea- 
spoonful  in  the  morning,  and  the  same  at  night  when  put  to  bed,  or 
just  before  you  put  them  to  sleep,  whatever  hour  that  may  be.  A 
baby  2  months  old  can  take  i  teaspoonful.  If  the  bowels  are  bad,  it 
can  be  taken  several  times  a  day  with  the  happiest  effect.  For  an 
adult  i  teaspoonful  is  a  dose. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER,  AND  MILK  Are  the  only   two  articles  oft 
Which  have  all  the  elements  of  nutrition.     Hence  from  childhood  to 
extreme  old  age,  we  are  never  tired  of  them. 

CHICKEN  PANADA  FOR  BABIES  AND  INVALIDS.— Take  a  youug 
fowl  and  roast  it  well,  then  take  away  the  white  meat  and  chop  it, 
and  pound  it  to  a  pulp  with  the  crumbs  of  a  French  roll,  satur- 
ated with  the  broth,  then  weaken  this,  with  a  little  chicken  water 
made  from  the  bones  of  the  roasted  fowl,  till  it  forms  a  batter  like 
cream;  strain  it  as  other  soup,  add  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  use  no 
spices,  herbs,  or  vegetables. 

SAGO  AND  FLOUI!.— Dr.  Motherly.— Sago  is  better  thai  wheaten 
flour  for  impaired  or  sick  people,  because  it  does  not  ferment  in 
the  stomach. 

FOR  A  CHILD'S  LUNCH.— Good  sweet  butter  with  stale  bread,  is 
one  of  the  most  nutricious,  at  the  same  time  the  most  wholesome 
articles  of  food  that  can  be  given  to  children  after  they  are  weaned. 
BABY'S  FOOD.— Dr.  Meigs.— One  teacupful  of  Cox  gelatine,  dis- 
solved in  a  tumbler  of  cold  water;  let  it  stand  one-half  hour  before 
usin"  take  two  pints  of  boiling  water,  pour  in  the  gelatine.  Put  it  in 
a  saucepan,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  three  breakfast  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  Duryea's  corn  starch,  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  new  rich 
cream  in  which  a  pinch  of  salt  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  have 
been  dissolved.  The  corn  starch  must  be  mixed  up  a  little  at  a 


576  THE    NURSERY. 

time  as  common  starch  is,  or  it  will  be  lumpy.  All  the  time  the 
preparation  is  being  boiled,  it  must  be  stired  to  keep  it  from  burn- 
ing. As  the  child  becomes  older,  the  quantity  of  milk  and  water 
must  be  reversed,  that  is,  one  pint  of  water  instead  of  two  pints  of 
water,  and  two  pints  of  milk  instead  of  one  of  milk. 

CARE  OF  CHILDREN. — The  best  cordial  for  children  is  proper  food; 
the  finest  syrup  is  through  cleanliness,  and  the  most  efficacious  of 
all  "soothing"  medicines  is  good  management,  with  a  due  propor- 
tion of  sleep. 

CHILDREN,  when  going  to  sleep,  should  have  a  light,  if  they  wish 
it.  It  is  a  mistaken  kindness  to  force  them  to  go  to  sleep  in  the 
dark. 

PREMONITION  OF  SICKNESS  IN  CHILDREN. — If  a  child  wakes  up  in 
the  morning  and  calls  for  a  drink  of  water  the  first  thing,  such  child 
is  perfectly  certain  to  be  sick  before  noon.  The  course  to  be  pur- 
sued is  to  keep  him  in  bed,  and  by  warm  drinks  promote  perspira- 
tion, eating  nothing  whatever  until  the  afternoon,  when  he  may  be 
amused  by  giving  him  some  cold,  dry  bread  to  nibble,  and  the  next 
day  he  will  be  about  again.  Otherwise  a  breakfast  will  be  eaten, 
fever  comes  on,  and  vomiting  and  several  days'  illness. 

CHOLERA  INFANTUJ*. — Give  an  enema  at  once  of  warm. but  not 
too  hot  water.  It  is  at  the  fundament  the  disease  begins.  Keep  the 
patient  warm. 

FOR  BABIES  WITH  DIARRHEA. — One  teaspoonful  of  parched  wheat 
flour  boiled  in  a  cup  of  milk. 

CURB  FOR  EAR-ACHE. — Children  are  sometimes  afflicted  with  ear- 
ache to  an  alarming  extent,  and  there  is  sometimes  a  difficulty  in 
obtaining  an  effectual  remedy  for  this  disorder.  Take  a  piece  or 
salt  pork  or  fat  bacon,  say  an  inch  or  more  long  and  1-2  inch  square, 
cut  down  one  end  to  fit  the  ear  and  insert  it,  taking  care  to  have  the 
piece  too  large  to  slip  in.  Tie  a  handkerchief  to  keep  it  in 
place,  if  the  child  will  allow  it. 

RISING  OR  PAINFUL  GATHERING  IN  THE  EAR. — Apply  warm  a  few 
drops  of  castor  oil  in  the  ear  dropped  from  a  spoon,  then  saturate  a 
piece  of  cotton  wool  and  close  the  ear.  The  oil  is  very  healing  to 
running  ears.  Of  its  beneficial  effects  I  speak  from  what  I  have 
seen. 

HIVES  OR  NETTLE  RASH. — Rub  the  places  over  with  flour;  grease 
and  drink  sassafras  or  Santa  Yerba  tea,  or  give  a  mixture  of  three- 
fourths  cream  of  tartar  and  one-fourth  of  sulphur  mixed  with  milk, 
water  or  molasses. 

SEA  HOLLY  OR  "Err  WEED." — Much  used  in  decoction  in  the 
West  Indies  for  hysterics. 

SCURF  IN  THE  HEAD. — Dr.  Chase. — Wet  the  roots  of  the  hair 


FIRESIDE  PLEASURES. 


THE    NURSERY.  $7? 

with  a  mixture  of  lime  water,  not  strong,  and  some  fine  fruit  vine- 
gar. 

POWDER,  VIOLET,  FOR  CHILDREN,  DURING  EXCORIATIONS.  — 
Powdered  starch,  28  pounds ;  powdered  orris  root,  i  pound  ;  essence 
of  bergamot,  1-4  ounce ;  oil  of  rhodium,  1-2  drachm.  Mix  and 
press  through  a  sieve. 

FOR  BABIES  WHILE  TEETHING. — Tea  of  the  milk  (male)  purslain 
while  teething  or  suffering  from  bowel  complaint.  Add  a  few  leaves 
of  horse  mint ;  put  sugar  and  new  milk  enough  to  make  it  palata- 
ble. 

TEETHING  CHILDREN. — A  recipe  for. —  One  pound  of  honey,  two 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  paragoric  and  oil  of  aniseseed ;  add  enough 
of  either  to  make  a  thick  syrup ;  bottle  closely.  For  children.  A 
dose  of  a  teaspoonful  now  and  then. 

SORE  MOUTH  AND  TRUSH.— With  the  handle  of  a  spoon  put  on 
the  tongue,  or  with  a  cloth  wound  around  the  fore  finger  dipped  in 
equal  portions  of  loaf  sugar  and  borax  mixed  together,  and  rub  the 
gums,  roof  of  the  mouth  and  tongue  with  it. 

NOTE — Tea  made  of  sumach  berries  is  also  excellent.  Touch  the 
mouth  with  the  finger  as  with  the  powdered  mixture. 

VACCINATION  in  infancy  is  an  almost  perfect  safeguard  until  the 
fourteenth  year.  Let  every  youth  be  re-vaccinated  on  entering 
fourteen.  Let  several  attempts  be  made,  so  as  to  be  certain  of 
safety. 

CURE  FOR  CROUP — M.  Gourd,  N.  O. — i  teaspoonful  of  Carracas 
indigo"  to  a  wine  glassful  of  water;  add  sugar  enough  to  make  a 
syrup.  Administer  one  teaspoonful  every  half  hour;  if  necessary, 
one  every  fifteen  ^minutes,  as  circumstances  may  require.  This 
remedy  has  been  used  by  the  most  eminent  physicians  in  N.  O.  for 
the  most  obstinate  cases  of  croup,  and  whenever  tried  proved  in- 
fallible. 

CROUP. — Mix  i  teasponful  of  powdered  alum  with  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  sugar.  Give  immediately.  It  gives  instant  relief; 

CROUP,  TO  PREVENT  IN  CHILDREN. — Cut  a  chamois  skin  to  fit  the  • 
neck  of  the  child,  then  sew  some  tape  on  it  to  fasten  it  by,  then  melt 
some  mutton  tallow  and  pine  tar,  and  rub  the  mixture  or  some   of 
it  on  the  skin,  and  let  the  child  wear  it  all  the  time,  painting  the  skin 
with  the  mixture  when  it  begins  to  wear  off. 

SIMPLE  CURE  FOR  CROUP. — Journal  of  Heath. — The  moment  a 
child  is  taken  with  croup,  apply  cold  or  ice  water,  suddenly  and 
freely  to  the  neck  and  chest  with  a  sponge.  The  breathing  will  be 
almost  instantly  relieved  and  let  the  patient  drink  as  much  as  it 
possibly  caa  Then  wipe  dry  and  cover  up,  and  a  sweet  sleep  will 
follow. 


578  THE  NURSERY. 

CURE  FOR  CROUP.— In  places  where  a  physician  cannot  be  had 
immediately,  it  is  best  to  keep  on  hand  alum  pulverized  as  fine  as 
flour  (a  sure  remedy).  In  case  of  croup,  mix  the  pulverized  alum 
with  syrup  or  molasses,  and  give  a  small  teacupful.  Repeat  it  every 
two  or  three  minutes  until  vomiting  is  produced,  when  the  trouble 
will  be  over. 

MEMBRANOUS  CROUP. — i  teaspoonful  each  of  sulphur  and  molas- 
ses mixed  together.  Give  promptly.  After  vomiting  repeat  the 
quantity. 

TAPE  WORM. — German,  Mrs.  Norwold. — Take  the  pumpkin  seed 
from  a  large  pumpkin  just  opened,  before  they  dry  at  all,  then  beat 
them  in  a  mortar  fine,  then  squeeze  the  juice  from  them  through  a 
rag,  then  take  of  this  juice  a  large  tablespoonful  with  a  little  clear 
honey,  mixed  well,  before  breakfast  for  two  days,  taking  sparingly 
of  food,  drinking  slippery  elm  tea  cold.  The  third  day  take  a  mild 
apperient,  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  3  of  Bass'  pills,  drink- 
ing the  slippery  elm  tea  water.  If  this  removes  only  a  part  of  the 
worm,  continue  to  take  the  pumpkin  seed  juice,  and  the  elm  tea. 
Not  drinking  it  the  third  day;  when  you  take  the  purge  for  a  week  or 
ten  days,  the  head  and  all  will  come  away,  for  this  worm  ex- 
tends from  the  stomach  through  the  entire  length  of  the  bowels,  like 
a  jointed  snake.  If  only  the  joints  come  away  without  the  head,  it 
will  grow  again.  Note. — Always  take  the  juice  before  breakfast  on 
an  empty  stomach.  If  you  cannot  get  the  elm,  take  the  pumpkin 
juice  with  a  little  honey. 

DOMESTIC  HOME  CONFECTION. — Make  a  strong  decoction  of  sage 
leaves,  worm  seed  or  leaves.  Strain  and  add  sugar  or  molasses 
and  boil  to  a  syrup,  or  candy  till  it  granulates.  Children  like  it.  I 
know  it  to  be  a  valuable  remedy. 

REMEDY  FOB  WORMS. — Dissolve  in  a  two  ounce  vial  filled  with 
water,  a  piece  of  copperas,  of  the  size  of  a  pea.  Take  for  3  or  4 
days,  a  teaspoonful  of  the  mixture.  Then  rest  3  days.  If  not  re- 
lieved, use  it  some  days  longer.  A  child  under  2  years,  give  i-a 
the  quantity. 

SALT  AND  WATER  is  an  excellent  enema  for  pin  worms  in 
children. 

SCARIES  AND  PIN  WoRMg.-—Mix  together  one-half  pint  of  strong 
lye  made  from  ashes  of  the  white  ash  bark  with  i  pint  of  warm 
water.  Take  2  or  3  pints  a  day. 

BATHS  FOR  CHILDREN  should  always  contain  borax  in  the  water. 

BABIES'  WASHING. — N.  B.  In  doing  this  the  first  time  after 
their  birth,  the  nurse  should  be  careful  not  to  get  any  of  the  water  in 
the  eyes,  as  it  will  cause  sore  eyes,  which  may  become  chronic,  and 
finally  produce  blindness,  nor  in  the  mouth,  as  that  may  cause  it  to 
beco  me  sore. 


THE  LAUNDRY. 


ARABS  bathe  their  children  in  salt  and  water. 

SORENESS  OR  CHAFE  on  any  part  of  the  body,  powder  pipe  clay. 

FAILURE  TO  MAKE  WATER.-—  Make  a  tea  of  beaten  watermelon, 
pumpkin,  or  flax  seed  tea;  give  a  little. 

GROIN  HERNIA.-  —  Keep  the  child  lying  down  as  much  as  possi- 
ble, and  do  not  let  it  cry.  If  the  rupture  does  not  heal  itself;  apply  a 
pitch  plaster.  If  this  fails  call  in  a  physician  and  have  it  made 
under  the  direction  of  an  experienced  physician.  Note.  Groin 
rupture  can  be  cured  if  taken  in  season.  Push  in  the  protrud- 
ing bowel,  and  while  lying  down  apply  the  plaster. 

CURE  FOR  DIARRHEA.  —  Cut  up  a  dozen  green  persimmons  with  i 
ounce  of  red  wood  bark  ;  boil  these  in  a  pint  of  water  until  reduced 
to  1-2,  then  add  i  ounce  gum  arabic  and  1-2  pound  of  white  sugar. 
Boil  this  mixture  with  a  teaspoonful  of  syrup  from  blackberry  pre- 
serves (if  the  preserves  have  not  fermented),  stew  down  to  a  stiff 
syrup,  sift  coarse  white  sugar  in  a  clean  sheet  of  white  paper  and 
drop  the  candy  on  it  in  the  shape  of  lozenges.  Let  the  patient  eat 
3  or  4  a  day.  Drink  gum  arabic  water  and  toast  water. 

CHOLERA  MEDICINES.  —  When  the  premonitory  symptom  is  diar- 
rhea, use  as  recommended.  Chalk  mixture,  i  ounce,  10  or  15  grains 
aromatic  confection,  3  to  15  drops  tincture  of  opium.  To  be  re- 
peated every  3  or  4  hours,  or  oftener,  if  the  attack  be  severe,  until 
the  looseness  is  stopped. 

THE  LAUNDRY. 

AN  EXCELLENT  WASHING  FLUID.—  Three  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
soda  and  spirits  of  camphor  to  2  pints  of  salt  water  put  into  a  bot- 
tle and  before  using  shake  it  well;  to  3  cups  of  soft  soap  add  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  mixture,  make  suds  of  warm  water  and  the 
fluid,  soak  the  clothes  in  it  for  30  minutes,  then  with  the  same  quan- 
tity of  fluid  and  soap  make  another  suds,  and  boil  the  clothes  in  il 
for  1-4  hour,  then  rinse  them  in  2  waters. 

WASHING  FLUID.—  One-half  pint  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  1-4  ID. 
of  sal  soda  in  water,  1-2  gallon  of  soft  soap  ;  make  i  gallon  of  fluid; 
1-2  pint  makes  enough  for  one  washing. 

BELGIUM  WASHING  FLUID.—  In  Holland  they  use  1-2  pound  of 
powdered  borax  in  10  gallons  water;  very  little  soap  is  needed. 
Borax  water  should  be  on  every  toilet  stand. 

FIG  LEAF  TEA,  TO  STIFFEN  BLACK.  CALICOES.—  After  washing  th< 
article   through  3  warm  waters,  rinse  it  in  the  fig-leaf  tea  ;  when 
nearly  dry,  fold,  let  it  remain  an  hour  and  iron  immediately. 
gall  sets  dark  color*  well.    One  tablespoonful  to  a  gallon  ot  water. 


580  THE  LAUNDRY. 

To  MAKE  STARCH. — Allow  1-2  pint  of  cold  water  and  i  quart  of 
boiling  water  to  every  2  tablespoonfuls  of  starch.  Put  the  starch 
into  a  tolerably  large  basin,  pour  over  it  the  cold  water,  and  stir  the 
mixture  well  with  a  clean  wooden  spoon  until  it  is  perfectly  free 
from  lumps  and  quite  smooth ;  then  take  the  basin  to  the  stove  or 
fire,  and  whilst  the  water  is  actually  boiling  in  the  kettle  or  boiler, 
pouring  it  over  the  starch,  stirring  it  all  the  time.  If  properly  made 
in  this  manner,  the  starch  will  require  no  further  boiling,  but 
should  the  water  not  be  boiling  when  added  to  thicken  the  starch, 
it  will  not  thicken,  and  must  be  put  in  a  clean  sauce  pan  and 
stirred  over  the  fire  until  it  does  boil.  Take  it  off  the  fire,  strain 
it  through  a  clean  cloth  into  a  basin,  cover  it  to  prevent  a  skin 
from  forming  on  the  top,  and  when  sufficiently  cool  that  the  hand 
may  be  borne  in  it,  starch  the  things.  Many  persons,  to  give  a 
shiny,  glossy  appearance  to  the  linen  when  ironed,  stir  around 
while  hot  2  or  3  times  a  wax  or  sperm  candle,  let  the  clothes  remain 
for  3  or  4  hours,  when  they  are  ready  to  iron. 

COLD  STJLRCH. — Mix  up  the  starch  tolerably  thick  in  a  bowl  of 
cold  water,  then  dip  in  the  parts  of  linen,  as  the  collar,  wristbands, 
cuffs,  front  shirts  into  the  cold  paste,  then  squeeze  them  up  tightly 
in  a  clean,  dry  cloth  and  let  them  remain  i  hour,  then  have  your 
irons  ready,  hot  and  perfectly  clean;  then  put  a  thin,  clean  cloth 
over  them  and  iron  them.  It  is  a  good  way.  When  the  "things 
to  be  starched"  are  washed,  dried  and  taken  off  the  lines,  they 
should  be  dipped  into  the  hot  starch  and  squeezed  out  of  it,  and 
then  dipped  into  cold  water,  and  immediately  squeezed  dry  in  a 
clean,  dry  cloth. 

FOR  CLEAR  STARCHING. — From  a  German  laundress. — Mix  up  the 
starch  with  cold  water,  then  pour  hot  water  into  it,  then  have  some 
rather  warm  water  in  a  separate  bowl,  then  dip  the  articles  into  the 
clear  starch,  then  into  the  warm  water,  then  squeeze  them  out  after 
rinsing  them  thoroughly,  then  dip  into  the  warm  water  only  your 
lawn  neck  ties,  and  squeeze  them  out,  and  then  wrap  them  up  a 
moment,  and  iron  them.  The  second  water  prevents  the  iron  from 
sticking,  and  makes  the  article  more  glossy. 

NOTE — When  the  warm  water  in  the  bowl  becomes  thick,  pour  it 
out,  and  add  more  that  is  fresh. 

To  IMPROVE  STARCH. — To  each  bowl  of  starch  add  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  epsom  salts.  Articles  are  rendered  stiffer  and  somewhat  fire- 
proof by  it. 

STARCH  POLISH. — One-third  white  wax,  2-3  spermacetti ;  melt  to- 
gether slowly,  pour  into  a  mould ;  use  a  piece  as  large  as  a  bean, 
if  the  washing  is  small. 


THE   LAUNDRY.     *  581 

To  MAKE  SHIRT  BOSOMS  GLOSSY. — Dissolve  3  ounces  of  gum 
arabic,  clean,  powdered  and  white,  in  i  pint  of  water ;  when  dis- 
solved thoroughly,  strain  it  shrough  a  piece  of  muslin,  or  cotton 
cloth,  and  bottle  for  use.  One  spoonful  of  this  gum  water  added  to 
a  pint  of  starch  will  give  a  beautiful  smooth  gloss  to  cotton  or  linen 
fabrics. 

FOR  WASHING  AND  BLEACHING  LACES. — Put  one  teaspoonful  of 
borax  to  i  pint  of  boiling  water,  leave  your  articles  in  soak  in  the 
solution  for  2  hours,  then  wash  with  a  little  soap. 

To  CLEAN  THREAD  LACE. — When  the  thread  lace  has  been  tack- 
ed to  a  bottle,  take  the  best  sweet  oil  and  saturate  the  lace  thorough- 
ly. Have  ready  in  a  wash  kettle  a  strong,  cold  lather  of  clear  soap 
and  water,  immerse  the  bottle  in  it,  and  boil  it  for  more  than  one  hour, 
till  the  lace  is  clear  and  white  through.  Drain  out  of  the  suds  and 
dry'it  on  the  bottle  in  the  sun.  Then  take  it  off,  and  lay  it  in  long 
folds  between  sheets  of  white  paper  in  a  heavy  book. 

SILKS,  when  washed,  should  be  dried  in  the  shade  on  a  line  or 
linen  horse,  taking  care  that  they  are  kept  smooth  and  unwrinkled. 

To  CLEAN  SILK  RIBBONS. — One-half  pint  of  gin,  1-2  Ib.  of  clear 
honey,  1-2  Ib.  of  soft  soap,  1-2  pint  of  salt  water;  mix  the  above  in- 
gredients together,  then  lay  each  breadth  of  silk  upon  a  clean  table 
or  dresser,  and  scrub  it  well  on  the  soiled  side  with  the  mixture. 

SILK  handkerchiefs  should  be  washed  alone,  soaked  an  hour  or 
two  in  cold  water  and  soaped  as  they  are  washed,  then  rinsed  in  soft 
water,  in  which  a  handful  of  common  salt  has  been  dissolved. 

To  PREVENT  SILK  HANDKERCHIEFS  LOSING  THEIR  COLOR. — Dip 
them, or  any  other  colored  silk  article,  into  salt  and  water  before  they 
are  washed,  which  will  preserve  the  color,  (a  small  handful  of  com- 
mon salt  in  a  wash-basin  of  water.) 

BLACK  SILK  DRESSES,  if  very  dirty,  must  be  washed,  but  if  not 
soiled,  soaking  for  24  hours  will  do;  if  old  and  musty,  a  pint  of  com- 
mon spirits  should  be  mixed  with  each  gallon  of  water,  which  is  an 
improvement  under  any  circumstances.  Brewers  beer  is  good, 
whether  soaked  or  washed ;  it  should  be  hung  up  to  drain,  and  dried 
without  wringing. 

FLAT  IRONS,  when  rrot  in  use,  should  be  kept  in  a  perfectly  dry 
place.  They  should  never  be  allowed  to  stand  on  the  range  after 
the  ironing.  The  bottoms  of  them  should  be  thoroughly  clean  and 
polished  smooth. 


PERPETUAL  ALMANAC. 


EXPLANATION  OF  THE  CALENDAR. 

If  the  month  begins  with  Monday,  we  must  look  at  the  table  for 
Monday ;  if  the  month  begins  with  Tuesday,  look  to  the  table  for 
Tuesday ;  if  Wednesday,  etc.,  refer  to  the  table  for  that  day,  etc. 

Each  of  the  numbers,  on  the  same  lines,  will  indicate  the  different 
dates  of  that  day. — Translated  from  the  French  by  the  authoress. 

SUNDAY. 


i 

8 

T  r 

22 

20 

? 

Th 

2  7, 

T.O 

TO 

T7 

•>  * 

•JT 

Wednesday  

T  T 

T8 

?r 

Thursday  

e 

T  7 

TO 

76 

Friday  

6 

T7 

?o 

77 

Saturday  .. 

7 

1,1 

?,\ 

?8 

MONDAY. 


THURSDAY. 


T 

R 

T  r 

77 

2O 

Thursday  

T 

8 

T  r1 

22 

20 

•» 

T6 

77 

7.0 

Friday  

3 

1  J 
T6 

2  7 

«y 

to 

TO 

17 

71 

7T 

Saturday  

T  O 

T7 

2  A 

JJ 

7  T 

Thursday  

i 

T  T 

18 

?r 

I  I 

18 

2  C 

r 

T  7 

TO 

76 

f 

I  2 

10 

-  J 

?6 

6 

T  7 

7O 

77 

Tuesday  

6 

I  7. 

*V 

20 

07 

Sunday... 

7 

T4 

2T 

28 

Wednesday...  ... 

7 

Trf 

2T 

28 

TUESDAY. 


FRIDAY. 


Tuesday  

T 

8 

TC 

7? 

20 

Friday  

T 

8 

i  r 

22 

20 

Wednesday  

? 

n 

16 

7? 

7Q 

Saturday  

7 

1  J 
16 

2  7 

•!» 

10 

TO 

T7 

'M 

7.T 

Sunday  

10 

I  7 

*  J 
2/1 

J1-1 

7  T 

Friday  

T  T 

T8 

7f 

Monday  

1  1 

18 

2  C 

J  l 

c; 

T  7 

TO 

-»6 

Tuesday  

r 

I  2 

IQ 

*•  J 
26 

6 

T  7 

7O 

07 

Wednesday  .  ..  . 

6 

T  7 

Ay 

20 

27 

Monday... 

7 

14 

21 

28 

Thursday.... 

7 

1  J 

T^l 

?T 

•7 

?8 

WEDNESDAY. 


SATURDAY. 


T 

8 

TC 

•>? 

2Q 

Saturday  

j 

8 

T  e 

22 

? 

T6 

77 

70 

Sunday  

2 

1  J 

16 

2  7 

Z9 

TO 

T7 

Od 

7.1 

Monday 

T  7 

-J 

Ju 

4 

TT 

T8 

-7T 

Tuesday      . 

j  j 

1  / 

18 

•4 

2C 

31 

1  2 

TO 

^6 

\Vednesdav 

•"J 
,A 

... 

6 

T  7 

*v 

70 

77 

Thursday 

6 

J9 

97 

... 

Tuesday  

7 

14 

21 

28 

Friday... 

7 

1  J 

TA 

2T 

•"/ 
28 

INDEX, 


Batter  Cakes 214 

batter  bread 214 

plain  corn 214 

Washington  corn 214 

Virginia  corn 214 

Beers,  Ale  and  Cider 429 

beer 429 

cheap  family 432 

cheap  small 429 

corn 434 

crab  apple 429 

cream 432 

ginger 43I~432 

ginger,  for  summer 432 

lemon 433 

molasses 433 

persimmon -434 

Philadelphia 432 

porter 429 

root 433 

spruce -434 

tomato 429 

table 429 

tar ,429 

to  cure  when  ropy 432 

white  spruce 433 

Ales 431 

carrot 431 

Welsh 431 

Windsor 431 

Cider 43° 

apple 43° 

apples  and  figs 434 

can  have  taste  of  wine 434 

cider  champagne 43° 

drink 43° 

how  to  refine 43° 

the  best 43° 


Cider,  to  check  fermentation ....  430 

to  keep  sweet 430 

to  make  brisk 434 

to  prepare  for  medicinal 434 

Bees 500 

bee,  the 500 

bees  that  refuse  to  swarm 500 

bees  and  soils 5O1 

bees  and  sugar .....501 

bees,  to  chloroform 501 

bees,  to  keep  worms  from 501 

honey, S°° 

krge  podded  milk  weed 501 

Biscuits 206 

almond 206 

beaten 348 

butter 206 

cocoanut - 206-348 

cream • •••• 206 

honey 207 

lemon 206 

milk 207 

Naples 207 

sponge 207 

tea 207 

Walla  Walla 34& 

Brandies 437 

black  cherry 44* 

blackberry 441 

lemon 441 

morillo  cherry 44* 

orange 441 

to  test  good 441 

Boiling •  83 

Bread  Making 199 

aerated 227 

apple — French 228 

apple — Russian •  •  228 


INDEX. 


Bread  Making,  apple  corn 215 

ash  cake  or  leaf 204 

Boston  rye  and  Indian 215 

bread  for  dyspeptics 218 

brown  Graham 217 

brown  and  sweet 217 

burn  break — Irish 221 

California  Johnny  cake 205 

chocolate 228 

cold  corn 203 

corn 229 

corn  hoe  cake 205 

corn  meal 202 

crackling  or  short  corn 229 

Dixie  corn 205 

egg 227 

egg  wheat 227 

favorite  Scotch 220 

first-rate  corn 233 

Florida 217 

Graham 216 

hoe-cake 205 

home-made 217 

hominy 217 

Indian  bread  or  pone 203 

Indian  wheat 215 

Indian — Mrs.  Randolph 2O2 

Italian — I 221 

Italian — 2  227 

journey  or  Johnny  cake 204 

Johnny  cake 205 

leaf  corn 203 

leavened 218 

lemon 228 

loaf. 219 

Louisiana 221 

Madame  Getz  Lucas' 225 

Mexican 218 

mixed 229 

milk  risen 219 

Mrs.  Bass'  corn 203 

Mrs.  Gen.  R.  E.  Lee's 216 

Mrs.  Sanderson's  corn 202 

our  own .222 


Bread  Making,  plain  loaf 218 

pumpkin ..229 

premium  rye. 216 

premium 216 

rice  corn o  227 

risen  corn fZ2O 

rice — i 226 

rice — 2 226 

rice  pan 226 

rice  and  wheat 226 

salt  rising — I 219 

salt  rising — 2 220 

St.  Charles,  N.  O.,  corn 203 

stale  bread 222 

bread  crumbs , 223 

eight  ways  to  use  it 222 

how  to  save 223 

to  economize 222 

to  freshen 223 

to  keep .• 223 

to  renew 222 

uses  of 222 

sweet  potato 223 

sweet  potato  pone 224 

swift  yeast 230 

to  make  good  home-made ....  224 

Virginia  corn — I 202 

Virginia  corn — 2 202 

Virginia  granger  potato 223 

Breakfast,  Lunch  and  Tea 343 

a  Creole  lady's  breakfast 343 

American  raised  waffles 347 

ancient  recipe  for 353 

a  nice  breakfast  dish 346 

apple  Charlotte 348 

apples  in  batter 348 

apple  journey  cake 356 

artificial  oysters 345 

baked  apple  dumplings 354 

breakfast  rolls 343 

buckwheat  cake 344~347~356 

buns,  by  our  mother 350 

buns 350 

cakes,  ginger.... 350 


INDEX. 


Breakfast,  Lunch  and  Tea 343 

Carolina  rolls 343 

Corolina  bread 353 

Charlotte  Russe 349 

cocoa,  how  to  make 35* 

cocoanut  balls 353 

coffee  and  teapots 351 

cooking  without  eggs 352 

corn  batter  cakes 344 

corn  cakes 353 

corn  meal  drop  cakes 356 

corn  muffins 355 

corn  patties 35° 

cream  cookies 347 

curry  eggs,  to 349 

Dixie  corn  cake 343 

filled  milk  rolls 345 

fine  waffles 353 

flannel  cakes 351 

floating  island 348 

fried  bread 353 

fried  cake 35^ 

fried  sausages 34^ 

frying  griddle  cakes 354 

General  Washington's 354 

ginger  bread 35° 

ginger  Snaps 35° 

Golden  Gate  rolls 344 

good  corn  bread 352 

Graham  rolls 345 

green  corn  griddle 354 

green  tomatoes 346 

Irish  stew 346 

jolly  boy ^353 

Johnny  cake 352 

lemon  dumplings 355 

lemon  pie 355 

lemon  minced  meat 355 

macaroons 349 

milk  gravy 346 

muffins 350351-355 

mushrooms 345 

mutton  chops 345 

my  colored  mammy's  cookies.  .354 


Breafast,  Lunch  and  Tea 343 

my  Aunt's  griddle  cakes 344 

New  Orleans  tea  cake 354 

orange  cake 353 

orange  for  dessert 355 

Polish  tartlets 356 

prune  pie 355 

pumpkin  pie > 355 

quick  doughnuts 35° 

roast  beef  with  Yorkshire  pud- 
ding   346 

relish  for  breakfast 34& 

Sally  Lunn •'•  •  •  352 

samp 344 

sauce — waffle 347 

shells 355 

small  drop  cakes 35* 

snow  cakes 353 

soft  molasses  cakes 350 

sugar  ginger  bread 350 

summer  snow 35 ' 

sweet-  dumplings 354 

sweet  potato   buns 350 

sweet  rusks 352 

tea  cakes 354 

to  boil  a  stuffed  turkey 346 

waffles 347 

wafers 349 

wine  wafers 349 

water  oat  cake 35 r 

white  honey  cake ' — '•  •  352 

yeast  rolls 343 

Broiling 84 

beef  steak 85 

broiled  ox-tail 85 

to  broil  steak 85 

Canary  Birds 5°2 

best  singers S°2 

broken  leg  or  wing 502 

canary,  to  tell  the  sex 502 

canary  birds,  to  color 503 

drooping 502 

egg-bound 502 

fits     50» 


586 


INDEX. 


Canary  Birds 502 

fruits  for  birds 504 

German  paste 503 

iron  dust 5°3 

lice 502 

moulting 503 

parrot,  to  teach 503 

teaching  to  sing....* 503 

food  for  mocking  birds 504 

Candies 332 

almond  taffy 332 

a  Granger's  marbled  cream.. ..334 
a  Granger's  candied  lemon  peel. 331 

butter  Scotch 333 

candy  any  sort  of  fruit "332 

candied  cherries 331 

candy  figs 336 

chocolate  caramels 334 

chocolate  creams 333 

cocoanut,  to  make 334 

cocpanut  balls '-335 

clarify  sugar 332 

cry stalize  pop-corn 335 

ginger 336 

home  made 332 

hoarhound 332 

Little  Molly's  vinegar  candy . .  .333 

molasses,  our  own 333 

molasses,  Julia  French 333 

molasses,  French 334 

nogar 335 

orange  flower  bon-bons '335 

pine  apple  bon-bons .335 

pine  apple  drops 335 

pop-corn  balls .335 

punch  drops 335 

San  Francisco  kisses 333 

silk  thread 334 

sugar 330 

sugar  lemon 331 

syrups 330 

Can  vegetables,  etc.,  To 336 

bottle  plums 337 

cold  process 337 


Can  vegetables,  etc. ,  To 33$ 

fruits .336 

pineapple 337 

quinces 337 

small  fruits 336 

tomatoes  andokra 336 

Carving 120 

Cheeses,  Different 462 

bread  cheese  cakes 465 

boiled 465 

cheese 463 

cheese  and  ale 465 

cheese  or  curd  cake 466 

cheese  cakes 464 

choosing 462 

cottage 462 

curd 466 

Dutch  cheese 462 

fondue,  to  make 466 

from  labbered  milk 462 

lemon  cheese  cakes 467 

maccaroni 463 

making 462 

our  Aunt's 467 

our  own 467 

ramakins 466 

rennet 465 

rennet  wine 465 

sage  cheese 463 

Scotch  rare  bit 464 

stewed 466 

sour  cream 463 

Welsh  rare  bit 464 

Chowder 70 

catfish 81 

chowder — common  sense 70 

chowder 71 

Christmas  dinner,  A 38 

Coffee 351 

Arabian  method  of  settling. .   342 

as  used  by  Bonaparte 342 

cafe  au  lait 342 

how  to  make  it 342 

losing  its  strength 342 


INDEX. 


587 


Coffee 35» 

new  way  to  make 342 

ordinary  English  method 343 

Spanish,  or  St.  Domingo 34* 

to  make  in  the  old  style 342 

to  preserve  and  make  ground.  .342 

to  roast 342 

Turkish  fashion  343 

Cooking  for  the  needy,  etc 363 

ale  posset 3°8 

an  excellent  soup 371 

arrow  root 372 

baked  soup 37° 

barley  milk 369 

beef  tea 3&9 

blamange 374 

blanc  mange,  rice 3°° 

brewis,  Scotch 371 

broth,  eel 365 

broth,  shank..... 366 

brown  caudle 375 

caudle 369-371 

chicken 366 

cocoa 3°7 

cooking  raisins 364 

corn  meal  gruel 372 

custard  pudding 374 

debility 

diet  for  convalescents 373 

Dr.  Ratcliffe's  jelly 373 

Dutch  egg  soup 36 

economical  soup 3^ 

egg  drink 37' 

eggs  for  the  sick 367 

for  the  sick 37 

for  poaching  eggs 3^ 

French  milk  porridge 3°° 

gruel 37' 

gruel,  raisin 37 

gruel,  rice 37 

herb  teas 37 

Homeopathic  cakes 37 

honey  posset 3° 

Iceland  moss 36 


Cooking  for  the  needy,  etc 363 

Irish  moss 3°° 

jelly,  strengthening S68 

liquid  nourishment 3"7 

meat  panado 373 

milk  cream 3w 

,    milk  porridge 37 1 

milk  thickened 366~368 

milk  porridge,  French 366 

milk  rice 367 

milk,  tiger's  367 

omelet 369 

plums 3°3 

posset,  sack 3°8 

posset,  wine 368 

presents • 371 

sago 372 

Scotch  broth 364 

soup  a  la  cantatrice 364 

soup  for  invalid 3°5 

sponge  biscuit  pudding .......  .  374 

substitute  for  the  sick— a  new 

dietic 365 

tapioca 373 

toast 364 

Confections  and  Conserves  for  the 

sick 375 

almonds,  confections  of 377 

bitter  orange  sugar 37° 

black  pepper 37° 

camphor  julep 37° 

hip 376 

lavender,  conserves  of 37° 

orange  or  lemon 37^ 

peppermint 375 

roses,  conserve  of 37° 

roses  or  thornberries,  conserve 

of 376 

Cordials,  Brandies,  etc 437 

blackberry 439'44O 

blackberry  brandy 441 

black  cherry  brandy •  -44* 

cherry  cordial 44° 

cinnamon 44° 


588 


INDEX. 


Cordials,  Brandies,  etc 437 

coriander 440 

cordial  for  dysentery 440 

common  ratafia 442 

eau  de  Barbades. , 441 

eau  de  Vie 442 

egg 441 

for  the  stomach 437 

ginger  cordial 438 

Irish  whisky 441 

lemon  brandy 441 

lemon  cordial 438 

maccaroni 438 

morrillo  cherry 442 

muscadine 439 

orange 439'44i 

peach 437 

pine  apple 437 

quince 437 

raspberry  vinegar 440 

strawberry 440 

to  test  good  brandy 441 

usquebaugh 438 

Virginia  strawberry 440 

whisky 438 

Corns,  Bunions  and  Warts 535 

bunions,  to  stop 536 

bunion 536 

corns 535 

corn  between  toes , .  536 

corns,  to  cure 535 

corn  plasters,  mechanical 535 

corns,  reliable  cure 535 

lemon  for  corns 536 

oil  of  cinnamon  for  warts 536 

warts,  to  cure 536 

warts  and  corns , .  535 

warts  on  the  hands 536 

warts,  cure  lor 535 

wen,  to  cure 536 

Cows 453 

abortion  in 454 

bloat,  remedy  for 454 

bloody  milk 454 


Cows 453 

brimstone  for  ticks 455 

calves 454 

cattle  choked 453 

choosing  cows 45  5 

disease,  to  check  spreading.  ..453 

distemper,  cure  for 454 

dry  earth 455 

food  for  milch 455 

gorget,  cures  for 455 

hoof  rot 454 

importance  of  clean  water 453 

mange 454 

murrain,  cure  for 455 

scours 454 

sickness  in  animals 454 

swelled  bags 454 

warts,  on  cattle 454 

Crabs,  etc 75 

boiled 75 

how  to  cook 76 

steamed 75 

to  boil 75 

to  stew  muscles "j6 

Creams 328 

chocolate 328 

ice 328 

Neapolitan 328 

orange 328 

velvet 328 

Croquet,  game  of 521 

arrangement  of  hoops 521 

croquet 521 

laws 522 

terms  used 523 

Croquets 1 16 

of  field  peas 117 

of  turkey , 116 

potato 116 

sweetbread 116 

rice 117 

Curries 338 

a  wet 339 

beef 339 


IN'DEX. 


Curries » 338 

curry 340 

curry — Canton,  China 340 

curry  sauce 340 

fowl  or  chicken 340 

grilled  chicken 338 

Indian  curry  powder 339 

Indian  mustard 339 

lobster 339 

mutton 339 

Custards 282 

almond 284 

boiled  cup 283 

bread  and  butter 284 

caramel 284 

coffee 284 

corn  starch 284 

custard,  boiled 283 

custard  powder 283 

frozen 283 

lemon 282 

orange 282 

ornamental 283 

our  Mother's 283 

plain 283 

snow  ball 282 

steamed 283 

wine 283 

Dairy,  The 4S8 

artificial  asses'  milk 457 

asses'  milk 457 

Beekman 458 

butter,  Russian  manner 458 

Swedish  mode 458 

Tardar  method 458 

brine  for  preserving. 461 

ducks  made  of 461 

fairy 4^1 

freshen  salt 459 

Irish  recipe  to  salt 458 

Mr.  Eaton's  remarks 458 

patent • « •  •  45^ 

preserve 459 

preserve  for  winter  use 459 


Dairy,    The 458 

quicklv  made 461 

cut  into  pats 460 

keep  and  choose 460 

make  resemble  a  pine  apple.  ..460 

make  stacks 460 

purify  rancid 460 

canned  milk 457 

causes'of  odor 456 

cloth  strainer 457 

cream,  to  rise 457 

to  preserve 457 

to  take  milk  from 457 

milking  in  silence 456 

milk,  a  test  for 456 

keep  sweet 456 

prevent  souring 456 

the  market 45^ 

mustard  taste  in . , 456 

preserve  for  a  journey 456 

Different  Ways  to  Cook  Meat 90 

a  dry  devil 133 

a  la  mode  beef 91 

a  very  nice  dish 104 

a  lamb's  haggis 104 

baked  spiced  beef 9$ 

baked  veal 93 

beef  loaf 132 

baked  beef 97 

beefs  liver 94 

beef  a  la  mode 132 

boiled  beef 93 

boiled  tripe 96 

calf  s  or  lamb's  liver 95 

calf's  head loi 

cold  beef  a  la  mode 92 

collared  calf  s  head 96 

cousin  German 102 

fricasse  round 97 

fricandeau  of  beef 100 

fricandeau  of  veal 100 

hot  beef  a  la  mode. 92 

hodgepodge 104 

hunter's  bakedbeef 9* 


59° 


Different  Ways  to  Cook  Meat 90 

lamb's  head 102 

lamb's  head  minced IO2 

lamb,  to  keep  in  summer 104 

marinade 91 

marinaded  lamb's  feet 91 

moulded  minced  veal 99 

minced  veal ._••«    99 

pig's  heartlet 94 

pig's  pettitoes 103 

potted  cooked  beef. 98 

rib  of  beef  bones 92 

salt  beef 96 

smothered  beefsteak 93 

sheep's  feet 103 

steak  a  la  mode 90 

stewed  ox  kidneys 104 

to  bake  a  fillet  of  veal 94 

to  fry  liver,  etc. 94 —  95 

to  fry  veal . . . . 93 

to  roast  veal 93 

to  bake  a  fresh  beef  tongue ....  95 

to  boil  a  salt  tongue 95 

to  boil  a  calfs  head 95 

to  boil  corn  beef 97 

to  pot  beef  or  mutton 99 

to  fry  kidneys 104 

tripe,  Lyonnaise  fashion 96 

vza\  a  la  modt 91 

veal  stuffing 93 

veal  cutlets 101 

veal 101 

veal  loaf 101 

Directions  for  Carving  Fish 57 

carving  salmon 57 

cod's  head 57 

mackerels 58 

soles 57 

turbot 58 

Direction   for   Carving   Fowls  and 

Game 122 

guinea  chicken 123 

geese  and  ducks 123 

hare  or  rabbit 124 


Directions  for  Carving  grouse 123 

pheasant 123 

pigeons,  larks,  etc 124 

roast  or  boiled  chicken 122 

snipe 123 

when  a  cold  roast  fowl 123 

woodcock .123 

Directions  for  Carving  Joints 121 

a  loin  of  veal 122 

breast  of  veal 122 

fore  quarter  of  lamb 121 

haunch  of  mutton 121 

in  carving  a  shoulder,  etc.. ..  122 
the  saddle  of  mutton .121 

Dried  Fruits 475 

citron,  to  dry 475 

figs,  drying 475 

Dishes  of  Royalty 518 

bacon,  to  preserve 519 

baked  pears 519 

boiled  chicken 518 

carp,  blue 520 

Easau's  mess  of  pottage 519 

egg  plum  pudding 520 

fritters 519 

legs  of  fowls  like  pears 519 

minced  kidneys 518 

quarter  of  a  lamb 518 

royal  loaves 520 

Russian  turn-over 520 

sailor  sausages 519 

sauce  for  poached  eggs 520 

snow  balls 519 

stuffing  for  goose 520 

turkey,  roasted 518 

turnip  ragout 520 

wells 519 

Duchess  of  Sunderland  Recipes ....  377 

apple  jelly 382 

apple   jelly,   the    best  way    to 

make 382 

brandy,  cherry 384 

brandy,  currant 384 

cake,  Dutch 380 


INDEX, 


591 


Duchess  of  Sunderland  Recipes ....  377 

cakes,  ham  380 

cake,  sponge 380 

capsicums  or  cayenne  pepper, 

pickled 385 

cheese  cakes,  lemon 380 

ginger  bread  nuts 380 

green  pickles 384 

Hoe  Goh 384 

maringues 381 

Mogul  plums,  to  preserve 383 

oranges,  to  preserve  whole ....  382 

oyster  soup,  to  make 377 

pine  syrup,  to  make 38 1 

queen  drops 381 

Richmond  Maids  of  Honor. .  ..380 

Spanish  puffs 381 

sponge  or  Savoy  cake 379 

sponge  cake 370 

white  soup,  a  favorite 377 

Dumplings ....  230 

apple 230 

bread  and  suet 232 

boiled 232 

Charleston 231 

cherry 231 

green  peach 232 

hard 232 

lemon 230 

paste 232 

snow 231 

suet 231 

suet  and  currant 230 

yeast ..230 

Eels 70 

Farm,  The 448 

amusements  on  the 449 

blow  out  a  candle,  to 451 

bugs,  to  destroy 452 

candles,  to  make  hard 451 

catching  bugs 453 

chinch-bugs,  to  arrest 452 

clover  seed,  to  save 452 

corn,  to  measure, 452 


distemper  in  dogs 452 

mites  and  weevils,  to  free  6-001.451 

musk  melons ......453 

purify  tallow 451 

shepherd  dogs,  to  train......  .451 

sweet  potato  vines .449 

Feathers 536 

bronzed 537 

clean,  to 536 

curl,  to 536-537 

feather  brushes,  to  make 537 

swan's  down,  to  clean "537 

Fig  Cultivation 475 

Flowns  or  Floats 361-362-363 

Fish,  How  to  Cook 60 

baked  fishes 60-63  65-68-69 

fresh  shad 68-69 

mackerel 64  65 

Boston  fish  balls 60 

brown  stewed 60 

Caledonian  recipe 60 

cream  sauce 66 

crimped  salmon 66 

fresh  herring 63-64-65 

fennel  butter  for  mackerel 65 

flaked  fish 62 

Irish  pickle  for  salmon 67 

salmon  cream 67 

salt  cod  fish 60-61  62 

salt  for  boiling  fish 63 

salmon  cutlet 66 

soap  root  and  fish 65 

to  stew  fish 60 

pike 65-66 

salmon 67 

to  boil  turbot 69 

turbot  a  la  creme 69 

Yorkshire  recipe . . : 67 

Fish,  Various  Remarks  on 58 

Forcemeats  or  Stuffing 504 

balls  to  go  with  game 507 

corn  bread  stuffing 505 

dressing 506 

tilling 507 


59* 


INDEX. 


Forcements  or  Stuffing «-jO4 

fish 505 

forcemeat  balls 506-507 

forcemeat 506 

for  hare 504 

onion  stuffing 506 

oysters  for  stuffing 505 

panada 504 

prairie  chicken 504 

stuffing 504-505 

tomatoes,  stuffing  for 504 

tureen  of  game 507 

Foreign  Dishes 385 

Brazilian 392 

Brazilian  dish,  delicious 387 

cinnamon  tree,  the 392 

Matte,  Brazilian  tea 392 

Chilian 389 

ajiaco 390 

albondigas ". 390 

baked  peppers 391 

banana  or  plantains 389 

Chili  cheese 389 

chicken,  to   cook 389 

chupe  de  camera 392 

cocoanut  custard  pie 390 

cocoda  390 

huevos  chimbas 391 

humitas 391 

papos  rellenas 391 

snow  cakes 391 

Creole 385 

bananas,  fried 387 

dessert 387 

roast 387 

stewed 385-388 

sweet  pickles 387 

beans 389 

Bohookavine 388 

carrots 388 

cassaver  bread 388 

eggs — French 385 

pickled 385 

poached 385 


stewed  ........  t  .............  3gj 

guava  jelly  ..................  387 

ft1**-  .......................  386 

New  Orleans  ................  386 

okra  ........................  386 

muslin  cake  .................  388 

okra  —  stewed  ...............  385 

pineapple  pie  ................  387 

pineapple  sweet  pickle  .......  387 

rice  and  red  beans.  ...........  389 

watermelon  .................  .388 

Italian  ..........................  404 


403 
fish,  to  fry  ...................  404 

Italian  cheese  ................  404 

maccaroni,  how  to  cook  ......  404 

Oriental  .........................  395 

African  dish  .................  398 

angels  on  horseback  ..........  443 

Arabian  recipe  for  cooking  lamb.396 
Bengal  paragard  pie  ..........  401 

bahmta  ......................  399 

calibash  .....  ................  402 

carach  sauce  .................  398 

citron  marmalade  ............  399 

corundajam  .................  398 

D'Almoy's  ..................  404 

Hasting's  curry  ..............  400 

Hindoostanee  kubab  .........  400 

hybiscus  jam  ................  399 

Kirby  .......................  398 

kisaila  ......................  397 

koftahs  .....................  402 

larks  ........................  307 

Lucknow  recipe  .............  401 

pish  pash  ...................  502 

rhicharee  ....................  401 

shakaree  ....................  399 

stewed  partridges  ............  399 

Turkish  rice  pudding  .........  403 

Zunder  ......................  402 

Polish  .  ..........................  405 

bacon  cake  ..................  406 

onion  cake  ..................  406 


S93 


Polish  ..........  *».»  ...... 

Polish  mock  rabbit 
Russian...  .....  .  ...  »»••  •• 

apple  pork  pie  ...» 

to  garnish  meats...*  .  . 
Spanish  .................. 

almond  tarts,  green  ... 

beefsteak  pudding 

brown  beans..,. 

catsup,  tomato  ......  . 

orab  soup  ........  . 

cucumbers  and  onions 

lemon  pickle 

M  adeira  pudding  ....'. 

melon,  to  preierre 

omelet,  pisto 

salad 


,405 
•405 
'405 
.405 
.405 
•392 
•395 


393 

'394 


393 
..  394 
395 
394 
393 
3<>3 
sauce  for  beefsteak  ...........  395 

stew  ........................  392 

stuffing  ......................  394 

tomatoes,  to  preserve  ........  394 

Fowls  ...........................  133 

boiled  fowl  with  oysters  .......  134 

broiled  chickens  ............  135 

boiled  goose  ................  139 

boiled  turkey  ................  14° 

Brunswick  stew  ..............  138 

chickens  fried  in  batter  ........  137 

chicken  cutlets  ...............  137 

fried  chicken  .........  ...  .136-137 

fowls  boiled  with  rice  ........  ,135 

roasted  turkey  with  oysters  ...  141 
roasted  goose  ................  140 

•tewed  ducks  ................  138 

to  boil  chickens  ............  ,.134 

to  broil  fowls  ................  135 

to  broil  chickens  whole  ........  135 

to  fry  chickens  ...........  ....136 

the  duck  ...................  *37 

to  stew  a  duck  with  green  peas  .  138 
to  boil  ducks  ................  139 

to  dressa  green  goose  ........  139 

turkey  for  Christmas  dinner.  .  .141 
turkey  stuffed  with  chestnuts.  .  141 


Fricassees......  ..»» •  ••• «•»•  »...-i52 

fricasseed  turkey ......4  .153 

fricassee  a  la  St.  Lambert.  • ...  152 
fricassee  of  parsnips ........••155 

fricasseed  lamb's  fries 154 

to  fricassee  chickens 1 52-1 53 


pgeons 

eggs 

rabbits 

rabbits,  brown 

salmon 

eels 


!54 
*54 
*54 
•  ••••••155 

155 
lobsters  .....................  *56 

oysters  ......................  X5^ 

Frogs  ...........................  70 

Fruit  Cultivation  .....  .  ...........  477 

Fruits  ..........................  -47* 

apple  .......................  -472 

cherries,  to  dry  ..............  474 

fruit,  to  save  without  sugar  ....  473 

lemon,  various  uses  ....  472-473'475 

plums,  fried  ..................  474 

peaches  .....................  474 

pears  ....................  473'474 

Fruit  Ices  and  Syrups  ............  -44* 

almond  and  raspberry  .........  443 

burned  almond  ..............  442 

coffee  .......................  443 

fruit  ice  water  ................  444 

icedgranites  .................  443 

parfait  au  coffee  ..............  443 

to  clarify  sugar  ...............  443 

Frying  ..........................  8* 

Game,  Edible  Birds,  etc  ..........  14* 

fawn  hash  ...................  M4 

grouse,  to  boil  ................  *47 

hare,  roasted  .  ...  .............  *49 

Jdd,  hash  ....................  »44 

kid,  a  lapoulette  ..........  I44-H5 

larks,  roast  ..................  f45 

partridges  ...................  *47 

pigeons,  to  cook  ..........  148-149 

plovers,  to  dress  ............  -143 

prairie  chicken,  if  young.  ......  145 


594 


INDEX. 


Game,  Edibles,  Birds,  etc 141 

ptarmigan,  to  dress 143 

quail,  to  boil 148 

rabbit 149-150-151 

squirrel IS1~1S2 

semi-stew  birds* 143 

teal,  to  roast 145 

turkey I43-H6 

venison 141-142-143 

washing  fowls 146 

widgeon,  to  roast 155 

woodcock ..147-149 

wood  pigeons,  to  catch 149 

Gardening 492 

General  Observations  on  Eggs 124 

boiled  eggs 125 

fried 127 

hard  boiled 125-126 

roasted  eggs «...  128 

sea  gull 124 

to  preserve 124 

General  Observations  on  Fishes.. M  55 

General  remarks  on  Pickles 490 

Glycerine 534-535 

Good  Words 21 

Gravies 77 

brown  gravy 78 

browning  for 78 

caramel 78 

clear 80 

economical 77 

general  stock  for 79 

gravy  for  roast  meat 79 

ham  gravy 79 

osmazone.... 79 

strong  fish 78 

to  draw  beef 77 

to  clarify  dripping 79 

to  make  chestnut. » 79 

Hair,  the ••••523 

bandolines 531 

cure  for  baldness. ......  ......532 

curl  the  hair,  to 522 

depilatories .531 


eye-brows  and  lashes 527 

hair  dyes  without  preparation. 533 

hair  oils 527 

hair  tonics  and  invigorators . . .  532 

pomades .... 526 

scald  heads , .  529 

treatment  of 523 

Hashes 113 

excellent  turkey 115 

Irish  potato 114 

Mrs.  H.'s  recipe 114 

Mrs.  J.'s  baked 114 

Health  Notes  and  Maxims 551 

air,  hot  and  cold 552 

bed-room,  the ••••553 

blood  and  air 552 

catarrh ...... 563 

flax  seed 533 

infallible  remedies 553 

mercury 552 

ventilation,  necessity  of 552 

warm  beds 552 

weak  back,  remedy... 553 

weak  eyes 552 

asthma 553 

bilious  colic 554 

cancers  and  other  sores 574 

chronic  sores 561 

colds 563 

consumption 555 

constipation,  for....... 556 

coughs 558 

disinfectants .572 

domestic  remedies,  London . . .  553 

dropsy 561 

drowning  persons 562 

dyspeptics  and  dyspepsia 557 

felons,  sores,  rising 560 

headache 556 

hoarseness,  for 564 

jaundice 554 

kidney  diseases 570 

leucorrhea ••••573 

liniments.....* .... 568 


INDfcX. 


S95 


Health  Notes  and  Maxims 551 

menstruation 573 

neuralgia 5*5 

night  sweats 5^ 

ointments 571 

piles 574 

poisonous  bites 5°7 

rheumatism 5^5 

salves 5°8 

sick  room 572 

sprains * 5^5 

weak  lungs 5^4 

Hogs  and  their  Diseases 471 

hog  cholera  and  burnt  corn ....  472 

kidney  worm  paralysis 472 

lice,  to  get  rid  of 472 

sore  throat  in  swine 47* 

sows  eating  pigs 471 

Honey 329 

Horses  and  their  Diseases 467 

age  of .467 

bots,  remedy  for 4^9 

cough  remedy 4^9 

cracked  hoof 4&9 

epizootic • 4^9 

fistula 469 

founder -468 

glanders 

grubs 470 

hide-bound 

pole  evil,  to  scatter 469 

ring  bone,  cure  for 

sweeney,  cure  for 

tender  mouth,  lotion  for .470 

wash  for  sores 47° 

worms 47° 

How  to  Prepare  Casks  and  Restore 

Wines 435 

Ice,  Freezers,  etc 444 

freezing  without  ice 44; 

how  to  freeze 44! 

fced  apples.... 44$ 

ice,  for  keeping  fruit 44 

iotwafcn ~ 44 


matchless  freezing  preparation-446 
to  keep  ice  water  cold  ........  445 

to  keep  meat  frozen  ..........  444 

cing  and  frosting  ............  280-282 

frosted  rice  ..................  2Sl 

iced  apple  ...................  28' 

royal  icing  ...................  2°l 

elllies  and  Preserves  ............  285 

apple  ...............  286-290-291 

apricots  preserved  whole  ......  290 

barberry  jelly  with  apples  ......  286 

brandy  grapes  ..............  ^.290 

brandy  peaches  ..............  289 

cherry  preserves  ..............  293 

cocoanut  jelly  ................  285 

crab  apple  ...................  288 

cranberry  jelly  ..............  »286 

currant  jelly  ..................  a87 

damsons.....  ...............  293 

fruit  jelly  with  champagne  ....  285 

grapes  preserved  in  bunches...  293 
green  grapes  preserved  whole..  292 
isinglass  jelly  ................  29° 

jelly  of  gooseberries  ..........  287 

jellied  grapes  ................  287 

lemon  ..................  285-292 


orange 

peaches 

pears,  to  preserve 

pineapple 

pomegranate  jelly 

quince 

raspberry  jam 

rhubarb  preserves 

•trawberries 


«88 
288 

2*9 
286 

289291 
29* 
293 

285-  287 
•weetmeat  of  currant  jelly  .....  290 

wine  jelly  ...............  286-287 

Ladies'  Toilet  ...................  537 

camphorated  almond  paste  ....  539 

camphor  ice  ....  .............  54* 

care  of  the  hands  .....  54<>-54i-543 

chafing  .....................  543 

chapped  lips  .................  54* 

chapped  skint  ..........  ••  "'539 


5SX5 


INDEX. 


Ladies'    Toilet. .».»»  .*.* 53 

charcoal  tooth  powder 55° 

Chinese  dentrifice 550 

Chinese  whitening 540 

cleanse  the  teeth,  to 541 

clear  the  complexion,  to ...... .540 

cold  cream - 542 

cologne  water 544 

coloring  gloves 549 

combs,  to  clean 543 

cosmetic 539 

court  plasters 542-543 

Cresson  rouge 542 

dyeinggloves 549 

ear  ache 550 

enameling  the  skin 539 

eruptions  on  the  face 539 

face  moths 541 

face  paste 541 

fine  wash 539 

flesh  color,  to  imitate 540 

Florida  water 544 

freckle  lotion 551 

French  rouge 540 

glycerine  cream 542 

kid  gloves,  to  clean 548-549 

lemon  cream 551 

lotion 538 

odor  of  perspiration 543 

oils,  extracts  and  essences 546 

pastilles 548 

pearl  powder 540 

perfume 544 

photographs 538 

pimples,  to  remove 541 

protect  the  skin,  to 539 

rain  water 539 

sweeten  the  breath 541 

tan,  to  remove 551 

toilet  salve 548 

tooth-ache 550 

tooth  wash,  myrrh 550 

rinegar  rouge 548 

warts,  to  remove.. 543 


wrinkles,  to  remove  .**»..  539-541 

Laundry,  the 579 

"  black  silk  dresses . .  .581 

clearstarching,  for .....580 

cold  starch 580 

excellent  washing  fluid 579 

flat  irons 581 

laces 581 

shirt  bosoms,  to  gloss 581 

silk  handkerchiefs 581 

silk  ribbons 581 

silks 581 

starch 580 

thread  lace,  to  clean 581 

Lobsters 76 

Location  of  a  House 27 

Meat  and  Savory  Puddings .235 

baked  beefsteak 239 

baked  chicken 238 

black 236 

boiled  steak 239 

cheese 236 

cindonilles,  a  la  Bechamille..  237 

English  beefsteak 239 

fish 237 

fruit  and  suet 240 

French  black 236 

hashed  fowl 238 

hunter's 236 

lark  and  beefsteak 238 

liver 235 

Mother  Eve's 236 

mutton 235 

oat  meal  and  suet 240 

pork 236 

potato 236 

rabbit 248 

suet 239 

Veal  chittings 237 

Minced  Meats 294 

how  to  make .......295 

with  uncooked  meat 294 

Muffins 212 

Nursery,  the 575 


INDEX. 


597 


Nursery,  the ,, 575 

baby's  food 575 

babies'  washing 578 

baths 578 

care  of  children 57° 

cholera  infantum 57*> 

cholera  medicine 579 

colic 575 

cure  for  ear-ache 576 

cure  for  diarrhea 579 

Dr.  Godfry's  cordial 575 

groin  hernia 57° 

hives  or  nettle  rash 57° 

membranous  croup 578 

powder,  violet 577 

remedy  for  worms 578 

salt  and  water 578 

scaries  and  pin  worms 578 

sore  mouth  and  thrush 577 

soreness 579 

tape  worm 57° 

teething  children 577 

vaccination 577 

water,  failure  to  make 579 

Oatmeal  and  Buckwheat  Cakes.225-226 

Old  style  of  Cooking 5i6-5i7- 

Omelets I2° 

a  matchless  omelet 13° 

beef I2° 

eggs  and  oysters 127 

French  promises 128 

fiso "7 

Mrs.Fs "7 

omelet  with  shrimps 127 

omelets 126-127-128-129-130 

San  Francisco  omelet 125 

the  cure's 128 

Oysters 73 

a  la  crime 7 

boiled  in  the  shell 7- 

broiled 75 

cultivation 7* 

cream  oyster  pie 7* 

deviled  oysters «• 


olloped 

Norfolk  recipe.... 

patties 

spiced 

steak  with  oysters . 


...  75 

...  74 

73-75 
...  74 
...  72 


stewed 72~73 

to  pickle  oysters 74 

Pancakes 232 

batter 234 

California 233 

common 234 

cream 234 

French 232 

jelly 235 

pink 234 

rice 234 

to  make 233 

with  marmalade 234 

Pastry  for  Pies 296 

beef  suet  to  soften 296 

dripping  crust  for , .  •  •  •  298 

excellent  short  crust 298 

French  puff  paste 296 

home  made  pastry 296 

plain 296 

puffett 296 

puff  loaves 296 

rice  paste 295 

Sandwich  pastry 296 

Patties 31? 

beef 3'7 

fried 3l8 

lobster 3J7-3l8 

lobster  and  shrimp 3l8 

oyster 3l8 

patties  resembling  mince  pies.. 31 8 

sole  bouchees 3l8 

turkey 31 7 

Perpetual  almanac ...  \ 58z 

00 

Pickles I8' 

barberry I9° 

cauliflower '92 

cabbage 191-192 

chow-chow f9° 


59* 


INDEX. 


Pickles 188 

currant — red 190 

cucumber — green  and  ripe .  191-192 

eggs 190 

favorite 192 

green  tomato 192 

mustard 189 

onion 191 

pears 189 

sweet  pickle 190 

sweet  tomato 192 

Pies — Meat  and  Savory  299 

acid 315 

apple 309-3" 

artichoke * 317 

blackberry,  raspberry,  etc.  ....311 

boned  beefsteak 304 

cherry,  damson 311 

chicken 305-306 

cocoanut 300 

critten  or  crackling 302 

croquette  of  fresh  walnuts 300 

cream 301 

currant 299 

custard 301 

damson 299 

eel 313 

elderberry 300 

fish 313-3*4 

fruit 299 

game  pie,  fly  away 314 

Georgia  sweet  potato 301 

giblet 308 

green  apple,  gooseberries,  etc.. 310 

green  goose 306 

ham 303 

herring  and  leek 302 

hot  apple 310 

imitation  lemon 312 

lamb -304 

lemon — minced 309 

lemon  cream 301 

lemon 31 1-312-313-315-316 

lobster 308 


meat 304 

minced 308-309 

mock  mince 309 

molasses ...316 

mountain  trout ,314 

mutton 303 

Old  Virginia  pot  pie 306 

orange 315 

oyster 308 

parsley 316 

pigeon 307 

podovies  or  beef  patties 304 

pumpkin... 311 

raisin 300 

rhubarb - 316 

rice 301 

salmon 314 

Savoy... 313 

sliced  apple,  etc 310 

sweet  or  Irish  potato.  .300-301-315 

Southern  pot  pie 304 

squab 514 

squash 312 

steak  and  plover 307 

summer  minced 300 

sweet  bread 303 

tomato  meat 303 

turkey  patties 304 

turnover,  apple 309 

veal,  rich 302-304 

vegetable 317 

vinegar 315 

Washington 316 

whole  peach 311 

Pork  and  Bacon 105 

a  simple  way  to  bake  ham 133 

baked  and  boiled  ham 1 1 1 

baked  pork 105 

collared  pig's  face 168 

glaze  for  covering  cold  ham . . .  1 10 

Miss  F.'s  recipe no 

olive  oil 105 

pork  chops 106 

pork  cutlets 1 06 


INDEX. 


599 


Pork  and  Bacon 105 

roast  pig 106-107-109 

roast  ham 107-1 1 1 

spring  or  fore  hand 106 

stuffed  ham in 

toast  ham in 

Poultry ...607 

broken  eggs 511 

breeding  and  cooping  chickens. 512 

chicken  cholera 510 

chicken,  to  pick 5°9 

choice  of  eggs 5IQ 

chicken  lice 511 

diseases  of  fowls 511 

distemper  in  geese 5ID 

egg-bound  fowls 5IQ 

fasting  fowls 508 

food  for  poultry $o& 

gapes 511 

hatching  cold  eggs 510 

Kme 512 

management  of 512 

moulting  season 512 

poultry,  to  fatten 508-509-512 

preserving  eggs,  Parisian 510 

worms  for  fowls 5°^ 

Puffs  and  Tarts 318 

almond  puffs  and  tarts ....  319-320 

apple  and  chocolate  puffs 319 

chocolate 320 

cream 320 

French 32° 

green  pea 32° 

gooseberry 32I 

lemon 3l% 

potato S1^ 

Polish 321 

prune  32° 

pudding 3'9 

raspberry 32° 

rennet 3J9 

sugar 3*9 

transparent 32° 

Rats  and  Mice 5OI-3°2 


Refreshing  Drinks 4°6 

apple  water 4°8 

aromatic  tincture 4J9 

balm  wine 4*8 

barley  lemonade 4*2 

black  cherry  water 4°& 

blackberry  sherbet 4°9 

buttermilk 415-416-420 

buttered  toddy 420 

caracoa 41^ 

cherry  drinks 407-408-410-416 

cowslip  wine 41 8 

currant  drinks 408-412 

cranberry  water 4°8 

drink  for  an  invalid 414-415 

egg  flip 42° 

egg   nog * 4'7 

egg  wine 4*7 

Egyptian  drink — agreeable ....  415 

fever  draught 4H 

figs  and  apple 412 

flaxseed  tea..... •  .4H 

ginger  pop 408-409 

harvest  drink — Russian 410 

harvest  drink — Scotch 407 

high  blackberry  tea 415 

honey  mead 40? 

imperial  drinks 409-412 

julep,  mint 4ro 

lemon  drinks 409-41 1-417 

lemonade 412-413-414 

lime  water 4r5 " 

mead  or  metheglin 407-408 

medicated  or  spiced  wine 416 

mint  julep. 4IQ 

mountain  nectar 4°6 

nice  drink 41  * 

orange  or  lemon  drinks.  ..413-148 

orgeat 4*3 

oxyrnel  simple 4*1 

peach  liqueur 4*8 

peach  spongage 4*6 

pleasant  drink 41 1 

punch  a  la  Romaine 4*7 


6oe 


INDEX . 


Refreshing  Drinks 406 

punch,  San  Francisco 419 

raspberry  drinks 407*411 

refreshing  beverage 410 

sack  mead 408 

sherry  cobbler,  to  make 416 

shrub 409 

soda  water,  California... 411 

sour  sop .414 

spiced  wine,  California 416 

tar  water 410 

toast  water 411 

various  sorts  of  tea 414 

West  Indian  saugaree 410 

Roasting 86 

beef 86-87 

ribs 87 

round 87 

veal 87 

Rolls 208 

Salads 182 

cabbage  182 

California 184 

chicken 182 

cucumber 182 

Irish  potato 183 

lobster  and  fish 182 

Russian 182 

red  herring — Polish 184 

salmon 184 

sweetbread 182 

Sandwiches 131 

cheese 131 

chicken 131 

herring  toast 132 

ham 132 

sandwich  pastry 132 

sandwich  cream  cheese ..131 

sandwich  dressing 131 

veal  and  ham 132 

Sauces  and  Catsups 185 

sauce  for  salad 185 

for  turkey,  etc 185 

tomato ..........  185 


black  butter 185 

maitre  fkottl 185 

caper -.185 

oude.. 185 

of  cherries,  etc 186 

gooseberry 186 

egg 186 

fish 186 

liver  and  lemon 184-186 

old  currant 186 

»pple 1^7 

orange 187 

mushroom 187 

tomato  catsup 187 

Sausages '. 119 

bologna no, 

fish 119 

pork n9 

royal n9 

*piced n9 

smoked  Scotch 119 

sausage  meat 120 

Sheep  and  their  Diseases 470 

gad  fly 470-471 

grub  or  foot  rot 470 

Scallops  or  Collops 117 

fillet  of  veal  with  collops 1 18 

minced ng 

scalloped  oysters n8 

to  dress  collops 117 

turkey ng 

Soups  and  Broths 43 

asparagus. 55 

bastl 44 

beef 54 

beef  noodle.... 53 

beef  tea 47 

browing  for  steak 45 

broth  of  mutton  veal  or  beef. . .  46 

calves'  feet  broth 47 

chicken  broth 47 

chevil 44 

clam 47-48 

clear  mock  turtle 51 


ItfDEX. 


601 


and  Broths , 43 

coloring  for 54 

coriander 44 

crab  soup 49 

eel  broth  and  soup 46-49 

fiish  broth 46 

game 52 

German  noodles .  54 

goose  soup 50 

mock  turtle 51 

Mullagatawny 52 

soup  stocks. 54 

vegetables 44 

the  medium  stock 44 

white  stock 44 

rich,  strong  stock 45 

to  clarify  stock 45 

mother's  veal 47 

Scotch  broth 47 

Virginia  oyster • 48 

lobster 48 

shrimp 49 

turkey  bone 50 

ox-tail 50 

soup  with  marrow  dumplings..  50 

thickening 51 

seasoning 52 

pigeon 53 

pepper  pot 53 

soup 54 

Apices 338 

Stewing 88 

a  good,  cheap  dinner 88 

beef  s  tongue 89 

calf  s  head 89 

ox  cheek 89 

tripe 89 

ox  tail 88 

ox  heart 88 

shin  of  beef 90 

brisket  of  beef 90 

Sweet  Breads 112 

baked 112 

brains •••• "3 


lanfi 113 

lamb's 112 

sweetbreads  saute 112 

Sweet  Cakes 275 

almond 213  278 

apple 278 

brandy  cakes 210 

butter  cookies 211 

California  cakes 210211 

cinnamon  jumbles 213 

cocoanut 277 

cream 275 

crullers 209 

cup 279 

custard 277 

excellent  sponge 275 

family  jumbles 210 

French  toast 211 

fruit 275-276 

frosting  for 276 

ginger  snaps 212-215 

Golden  Gate  cakes 275 

hard  ginger  bread 210 

honey  cake 279 

jelly 277 

lemon  tea  cake 211-278 

Los  Angelos  ginger  bread 210 

wedding  cakes 276 

North  Carolina  jumbles 209 

orange  ginger  bread 211 

plain  pound 279 

plum  buns 208-278-279 

Queen  cake 280 

royal  fruit 375 

Sacramento  buns 209 

small  sponge 280 

soft  ginger  bread 210 

Spanish  jumbles 210 

Spanish  doughnuts 208 

sponge  cake 275 

sugar  tea  cake 21 1 

sweet  milk  doughnuts 208 

tri-color  cake 275 

vanilla  cookie* .911 


602 


INDEX. 


Sweet  Cakes 275 

variegated  marble 275 

white  cake 277 

Sweet  and  Delicate  Dishes 322 

apple  Charlotte 327 

angel's  food 322 

beautiful  dish 322 

bird's  nest 324 

cinnamon  stars 322 

coffee  Charlotte  Russe 327 

corn  starch  meringue 325 

curds  and  creams 324 

egg  blanc  mange 327 

frangipone 323 

floating  islands 326 

French  macaroons 323 

Gateux  d'Epice 322 

golden  cups 322 

lemon  trifles 326 

orange  snow 327 

pear  Charlotte 327 

pyramids  of  meringues 325 

queen  of  trifles 326 

rice  and  apples . .  324 

rock  work 323 

San  Francisco  syllabub 326 

snow  balls 324 

souffle  of  potatoes 325 

sweet  souffle 325 

volauvent  of  oranges .325 

volauvent  of  peaches 324 

Sweet  Puddings 240 

Amherst 266 

amber 270 

apple  dumplings 247 

apple  and  rice 249 

apple  souffle 248 

baked 242-246  247-251  253 

barley 257 

batter 260-261 

beef  marrow  and  sweet  potato.272 

boiled 242  248  259-268 

bread 253  254 

brandy 264 


buttermilk 269 

California  apple ....247 

carrot 271 

Charleston 256 

chestnut 270-271 

cheese 256 

chocolate 262 

Christmas  plum 244-245 

citron — delicious 258 

coast  range 267 

cocoanut 261 

college 264 

Comarques 267 

Confederate 268 

corn  meal 251 

corn  starch  baked 259 

cottage 265 

cowslip 269 

cracked  wheat 259 

cream 268 

crust  for -258 

currant  and  marrow 274 

curd 273 

custard — Mrs.  Cordova 273 

Delhi  or  Oriental 265 

Edinburgh  fig 267 

English  plum 241-242 


egg- 


.269 


family  potato 258 

fig 250 

flour 254 

frozen 262 

ginger 270 

Grand  Hotel 267 

puddings 243-246-249 

Granger  pudding  crust 259 

half  frog 270 

Heroditus 265 

herb 272 

home  bread 254 

huckleberry 251 

iced  puddings 248-262-263 

Indian  puddings 253-260  266 

Irish  potato 260 


INDEX. 


603 


Sweet  Puddings 240 

Italian 256 

jelly 256 

lemon 246-247 

Lent 265 

maccaroni 255 

maccaroon  custard 255 

marrow  and  almond 272273 

melon-shaped 2.66 

millet 257 

minced 264 

molasses 273 

muffin 254 

mush 260 

orange 245-273 

pancake 269 

pea 271 

peach 250 

pear 250 

persimmon 272 

pippin 247 

plain  potato 258 

plain  rice 274 

plain  sweet 269 

plum 241-243-244 

potato 258 

pudding  for  children 266 

pudding  a  la  Reine 250 

pumpkin   270 

Queen's  custard 273 

Queen  of  all 256-257 

quick  made 266 

quince 250 

railroad 263 

raspberry 251 

rhubarb 251 

rice 255  -274 

rich  puddings.... 244-249-254-255 

roly  poly  jam 264 

Rosa's 270 

royal  cockney 268 

rum 245 

rusk 249 

Russian  seed 255 


San  Francisco 268 

San  Jose 267 

San  Gregoria  rice 255 

Seminolina 257 

Shakers 266 

shaking 266 

small  almond 261 

small  rice 274 

snow 269 

snow  bank  sauce  for  plain 241 

snow  cap  rice 259 

spinach 272 

spoonful 255-266 

steamed  batter 265 

sweet  or  Irish  potato..  258-259-260 

tapioca 257-260 

transparent 263 

Turkish 266 

University 264 

vermicelli 257 

wafer 263 

Washington 257 

West  Indian 256 

white  almond 262 

without  eggs .263 

'    Yankee 250 

Sweet  Sauces 357 

any  kind  of  fruit 3°° 

apple  jam..... 3°° 

arrow  root 3^° 

boiling 360 

burnt  cream 360 

cherry 359 

cocoanut 359 

cold  strawberry 359 

common  wine 357 

cranberry 358 

cream 358 

egg  drawn 359 

hard   cream.... 359 

maple  sugar 358 

orange  icing .361 

our  mother's 360 

peach  and  tomato 358 


604 


INDEX. 


Sweet  Sauces 357 

rich  wine 357 

sauce 358-359 

sweet  pudding 358 

vanilla  custard 360 

wine 357 


Tea. 


•341 


chocolate,  how  to  make 241 

good  black  tea 341 

lemon  in  tea 341 

Trees  and  Shrubs 478 

acacia 478 

ailanthus,  the 478 

aracata 480 

banana 479 

beef  suet  tree 479 

cocoanut 481 

cocoa 481 

custard  apple 479 

French  mode  of  grafting 478 

fruit  trees 483 

gummy  trees,  to  cure 478 

horse  chestnut .479 

manure  for  orange 480 

oleander 479 

orange  grove,  to  plant 479 

peach,  the 481-482 

pear,  the 480 

,  persimmons 481 

quince,  the 482 

tansy  and  peaches 482 

wall  trees,  nails  for 484 

Turtles 80 

Sanderson's  recipe  for 80 

terrapins 81-82 

turtle  steak 8t 

Vegetables 156 

artichokes,  Italian 157-158 

asparagus 156-157 

bacon  and  cabbage 165 

baked  pumpkin 176 

bananas 160 

boiled  beet  root 171 

cabbage 162-165-166-175 


carrots 1 58-1 59 

(Sishew  and  dainty  squash 176 

cauliflowers ..167 

celery 161 

Chinese  way  of  cooking  rice. . .  178 

colcannon,  Irish 177 

corn 169-174 

cucumbers 172 

dried  white  beans 166 

drying  cooked  pumpkins 164 

eggplant 159-160 

endive 173 

fried  mush 174 

fried  parsnips  and  bananas ....  159 

hominy 174 

horse  radish 1 6 1 

haricot  beans  and  minced  on- 
ions   1 66 

leek,  the 174 

lettuce,  to  boil 175 

mushrooms,  baked 160-161 

nasturtiums 171 

onions  in  cellars 167-168 

okra 173  179 

parsnips 1 70 

peas 169-170 

potatoes 176-177-178-179  180 

pumpkin 175 

radishes 161 

shallots 173 

sea  kale,  boiled 172 

spinach 178-179 

squashes 1 64 

sweet  potatoes 179-180-181 

tomatoes 162-163 

truffles 163-164 

turnips 164-165-171 

young  greens,  to  boil 171 

vegetable    marrows    in    white 

sauce 175 

Vinegars 485 

blackberry 486 

cayenne 488 

celery 487 


INDEX- 


605 


Vinegars » 485 

cherry 7486 

Chili 488 

cider 485 

crab  apple .486 

cold  water 490 

Dr.  Nie's 488 

escholet 485 

excellent  home  vinegar .489 

from  lees  of  casks 486 

gooseberry 489 

honey 488 

horseradish 486 

lemon 488 

our  sister's 487 

perry 490 

raspberry 486 

spice 489 

spiced  vinegar 489 

strawberry .485 

tomato 487 

vegetable 487 

watermelon 487 

Vineyard,  the..... .....484 

average  production .....484 

bleeding  vines 484 

grapes  to  preserve 484-485 

grapes  from  wasps 484 

mildew 484 

Wafers 212 

almond 213 

ice ....'213 

Waffles ,.209 

German... 209 

plain 209 

rice 209 

raised 209 

Water 513 

clarify  muddy  water 513 

cisterns 5*4-5*5 

drinking .* 513 

filter  of  porous  brick 514-51$ 

hot  water  in  glasses 515 

ice  vault,  to  make 515 


impurity  of 5*5 

prevent  freezing 515 

sea  water,  internal  use......  ..514 

Wines * 420 

apple -  .  ••••  .428 

apricot ••  ..422 

basil ...428 

blackberry 420-421 

British  sherry 425 

California  grape 425 

California 425-426 

cayenne •  >•  428 

champagne  wine 426 

cherry  bounce .426 

cider  wine 428 

claret  cup 423-425 

Corinthian 4?3 

cranberry 423 

currant 423 

damson 427 

Georgia  blackberry 421 

Georgia  recipe 421 

ginger 427 

gooseberry 421-426 

green  currant 422 

honey 423 

made  from  mixed  fruits 422 

mulberry 4*8 

muscadine 423 

raspberry 422 

raisin 424 

rhubarb 42? 

scuppernong 425 

South  Hampton  port 425 

strawberry 422 

Yeast »93 

baker's 194 

baking  powders »94 

buttermilk 196 

bread,  willow 196 

domestic • *95 

dry  yeast  cakes 198 

family *94 

for  cakes  of  leaven 19$ 


INDEX. 


Yeast 193 

flour 198 

hop 198 

Irish  potato 197 

Kirkkestham 194 

magic 197 

milk 197 

Mrs.  Gen.  R.  E.  Lee's 166 

Mrs.  Jansou's 199 


Mrs.  S.'s .^...,..168 

Miss  Betsey's ..194 

potato 197 

peach  leaf 195 

quick .197 

recipe 196 

simple 198 

yeast  powders 193*195-196 


• 


X/H.UJ/ 


