Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Arciiive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.arcliive.org/details/apiciusredivivusOOkitc 


ANNE 


sy^i'^ 


f^ 


/ 


//<?/?  ■  \ 


Kl+'ch  I  N/e 


i 


A.PICIUS  REDIVIVUS; 


OR, 


THE    COOK'S    ORACLE 


Wherein  especially  ', 

THE  ART  OF  COMPOSING  SOUPS,    SAUCES,  AKD  FLAVOUPvIKG  ESSENCES  : 

IS    MADE    SO    CLEAR     AKD     EASY,    BY    THE    QUANTITY     OF    EACH  ; 

;                 ARTICLE  BEING   ACCCKATELY  STATED  BY  WEIGHT  AND  ^ 

k                         MEASURE,  THAT  EVERY  ONE  MAY  SOON   LEARN  \ 

^K                              TO  DRESS  A  DINNER,  AS  WELL  AS  THE  '] 
Wtk                                          MOST  EXPERIENCED  COOK  ; 

THE  ^ 

t         RESULT  OF  ACTUAL  EXPERIMENTS  j 

INSTITUTED  IN  i 

THE  KITCHEN  OF  A  PHYSICIAN, 

FOPv  THE  PURPOSE  OF  COMPOSING  ' 

A  CULINARY  CODE  FOR  THE  RATIONAL  EPICURE,  ^ 

AND  AUGMENTING  ' 

^(je  alimentary  ^njogrfienw  cf  ©ritat^  ifamilicjar;  \ 

COMBINING  ECONOMY  WITH  ELEGANCE;  ' 

AND  SAVING  EXPENSE  TO  HOUSEKEEPERS,  • 

AND  TROUBLE  TO  SERVANTS.  • 

_  '  i 

"  I  ixave  taken  as  much  pains  in  describing,  in  the  fullest  manner,  how  to  make,  in 
the  easiest,  most  agreeable,  and  most  economical  way,  those  Dishes  which  daily  con-  ; 
tiibate  to  the  comforts  of  the  middle  rank  of  Society,  as  I  have  in  directiig  the  ! 
preparation  of  those  piquante  and  elabrrate  relishes,  the  most  ingenious  and  accom-  ' 
plishcd  "  Officers  of  tlie  Mouth"  have  invented  for  the  amusement  of  Grands  '> 
Gourmands.  These  are  so  composed,  as  to  be  as  agreeable  and  useful  to  the  stomach,  ^ 
as  they  are  inviting  lo  the  appetite  ;  nourishing  without  being  inflammatory,  and 
savoury  without  being  surfeiiing." — HdeVKEFA.CE,  pagei. 

LONDON:  j 

PRINTED     FOR    SAMUEL    BAGSTER,        ^ 

No.  15,  PATERNOSTER.ro  W,  I 

!By  J.  Moye?,  Greville  Street.  ? 

1817.  ■ 


PUSlICr  LIBlllY 

14631B 

AST  OR.  L£>roX  ANI> 


TO 

TASTEFUL  PALATES, 

KEEN  APPETITES, 

AND 

HEALTHFUL  AND  CAPACIOUS  STOMACHS; 

THE    FOLLOWING    RECEIPTS, 

COMPOSED 

FOR    THEIR    RATIONAL    RECREATION, 

ARE  RESPECTFULLY  INSCRIBED. 


a  2 


PREFACE. 


Ihe  following  Receipts  are  not  a  mere  manow- 
less  collection  of  shreds,  and  patches,  and  cuttings,  and 
pastings,  from  obsolete  works,  but  a  bona  fide  register 
of  practical  facts,  accumulated  by  a  perseverance  not  to 
be  subdued  or  evaporated  by  the  igniferous  terrors  of  a 
roasting  fire  in  the  dog-days,  or  a  vote  of  censure  from 
the  Cooks'  Company,  for  thus  daring  to  promulgate  the 
profound  mysteries  of  the  (till  now,  in  the  following 
pages,  explained  and  elucidated  to  the  humblest  capa- 
city,) occult  art  of  cookery.  The  Receipts  have  been 
written  down  by  the  fire-side,  "  with  a  spit  in  one  hand, 
and  a  pen  in  the  other,"  in  defiance  of  the  combined 
odoriferous  and  califacient  repellents  of  roasting  and 
boiling,  frying  and  broiling;  the  author  submitting  to 
a  labour  no  preceding  cookery-book-maker,  perha]»s, 
ever  attempted  to  encounter;  and  having  not  only 
dressed,  but  eaten  each  R^eceipt  before  he  set  it  down  in 
his  book.  As  they  have  all  been  received  with  a  hearty 
welcome  by  a  sufficiently  well  educated  palate,  and  a 
a3 


PREFACE. 

.rather  fastidious  stomach ;  perhaps  this  certificate  of 
the  eatabihty  of  the  respective  preparations  will  partly 
apologize  for  the  book  containing  a  smaller  number  of 
them  than  some  preceding  writers  on  this  gratifying 
subject  have  transcribed  for  the  profit  and  amusement 
of  *'  every  man's  master,"  the  STOMACH*, 

1  have  endeavoured  to  describe  each  preparation  in 
£0  plain  and  circumstantial  a  manner  as  I  hope  will  be 
easily  understood,  even  by  the  amateur  who  is  wholly 
unacquainted  with  the  practical  part  of  culinary  con- 
cerns. Old  housekeepers  may  think  I  have  been  tedi- 
ously minute  on  many  points,  which,  to  them,  appear 
trifling,  and  former  writers  on  this  subject  have 
deemed  unworthy  of  attention.  But  these  little  delicate 
distinctions  constitute  all  the  difference  between 
a  common  table  and  an  elegant  one,  and  are  not 
trifles  to  the  novice,  who  must  learn  them  either  from 
the  communication  of  others,  or  blunder  on  till  his  own 
slowly -accumulating  and  dear-bought  experience 
teaches  him.  A  wish  to  save  trouble  and  time  to  un- 
informed beginners,  was  ray  motive  for  publishing  this 
book,  and  I  could  accomplish  it  only  by  supposing 
the  reader,  when  he  first  opens  my  book,  to  be  as  igno- 
rant of  cookery  as  I  was  when  I  first  thought  of  writing 
on  the  subject. 
By  a  cartful  attention  to  the  directions  herein  given, 

*  "  Tiie  stomach  is  the  grand  organ  of  the  human  system, 
upon  the  state  of  whicli  all  the  powers  and  feelings  of  the 
individual  depend." — See  Hunter's  Culina,  page  13. 


PREFACE. 

the  most  ignorant  will  easily  learn  to  prepare  food", 
not  only  in  siu  agreeable  and  wholesome,  but  in  an 
elegant  and  economical  manner. 

The  cardinal  virtues  of  cookery,  "  cleanliness, 

FRUGALITY,     NOURISHMENT,     AND     PALATEABLE- 

NESS,"  preside  overeach  preparation ;  for  I  have  not  pre- 
sumed to  insert  a  single  composition  without  previously 
obtaining  the  *'  imprimatur"  of  an  enlightened  and  most 
indefatigable  "  COMMITTEE  OF  TASTE,"  whose 
persevering  and  cordial  co-operation  I  cannot  too  highly 
praise ;  and  here  most  gratefully  record  the  unremitting 
zeal  they  manifested  during  their  arduous  progress  of 
proving  the  respective  recipes,  who  were  so  truly  philo- 
sophically and  disinterestedly  regardless  of  the  wear  and 
tear  of  teeth  and  stomach,  that  their  labour  appeared  a 
pleasure  to  them.  This  laudable  perseverance  has  enabled 
me  to  give  the  most  inexperienced  amateur  this  unerring 
guide  how  to  excite  as  much  pleasure  as  possible  on  the 
palate,  with  as  little  trouble  as  possible  to  the  principal 
viscera. 

Every  attention  has  been  paid  in  directing  the  pro- 
portions of  the  folk  rt'ing  compositions,  not  merely  to 
make  them  inviting  to  the  appetite,  but  agreeable 
and  useful  to  the  stomach ;  nourishing  without  being 
inflammatory,  and  savoury  without  being  surfeiting. 

I  have  no  new  forms  of  luxury  to  communicate ;  no 
claims  to  the  Roman  Emperor's  bounty  for  inventing  a 
new  pleasure  ;  nor  do  I  pretend  to  give  any  information 
a  4 


PREFACE. 

to  those  graud  masters  and  mistresses  of  the  alimentary 
art,  who  are  commonly  called  '*  profess  cooks/' 
whose  greatest  praise  is  in  contriving  disiies,  not  to  allay 
the  appetite,  but  to  excite  it,  to  gratify  those  who 
live  upon  sauces  instead  of  food,  and  w  ho  see  the  sua 
rise  with  no  other  hope  than  that  they  shall  fill  their 
bellies  before  it  sets.  I  have  written  for  those  who 
Qiake  nourishment  the  chief  end  of  eating  *,  and  do  not 

*  Although  pleasing  the  palate  be  the  main  end  in  most 
books  of  cookery,  it  is  my  aim  to  blend  the  toothsome 
with  the  wholesome;  for,  after  all,  however  the  hale  Gourmand 
may  at  first  differ  from  me  in  opinion,  the  latter  is  the  chief 
concern  ;  since  if  he  be  even  so  entirely  devoted  to  the  pleasure 
of  eating,  as  to  think  of  no  other,  still  the  care  of  his  health 
becomes  part  of  that ;  if  he  is  sick,  he  cannot  relish  his 
food. 

"  The  term  gourma-nd,  or  epicure,  has  been  strangely  per- 
verted ;  it  has  been  conceived  synonimous  with  a  gluttony 
like  that  of  the  great  eater  of  Kent;  or  a  fastidious  appetite 
only  to  be  excited  by  fantastic  dainties,  as  the  brains  of  pea- 
cocks or  parrots,  the  tongues  of  thrushes  and  nightingales,  or 
the  teals  of  a  lactiferous  sow.  In  the  liberal  acceptation  of 
the  term  epicure,  and  as  I  use  it,  it  means  only  the  person 
who  relishes  his  food  cooked  according  to  scientific  principles, 
so  prepared  that  the  palate  is  delighted,  rendered  of  easy  so- 
lution in  the  stomach,  and  ultimately  contributing  to  health; 
exciting  him,  as  an  animal,  to  the  vigorous  enjoyment  of  those 
recreations  and  duties,  physical  and  intellectual,  which  con- 
stitute the  happiness  and  dignity  of  his  nature."    In  this  cty- 


PREFACE. 

desire  to  provoke  appetite  beyond  the  power  and 
necessities  of  nature  ;  proceeding,  however,  on  the 
purest  Epicurean  principles  of  indulging  the  palate  as 
far  as  it  can  be  done  without  injury  or  offence  to  the 
stomach.  The  pleasures  of  the  table  have  always  been 
highly  appreciated  and  carefully  cultivated  in  all  coun- 
tries and  in  all  ages ;  and,  in  spite  of  the  Stoics,  every 
one  will  allow  they  are  the  first  we  enjoy,  the  last  we 
leave,  and  those  we  taste  the  oftenest.  A  sound  stomach 
may  be  said  to  be  the  mainspring  of  all  our  comfort ;  and 
there  would  be  no  ditiiculty  in  proving  that  this  viscera 
influences  (much  more  than  people  in  general  imagine)  ali 
our  actions :  the  destiny  of  nations  has  often  depended 
upon  the  more  or  less  laborious  digestion  of  a  prime 
minister.  The  great  philosopher  Pythagoras^  in  his  Gol^ 
den  Ferses,  shews  himself  to  have  been  extremely  nice  in 
eating,  and  makes  it  one  of  his  chief  principles  of  morality 
to  "  abstain  from  beans."  Our  great  Euglisli  moralist^ 
Dr.  Johnson,  (says  Boswell,)  was  a  man  of  very  nice  dis- 
cernment in  the  science  of  cookery,  and  talked  of  good 
eating  with  uncommon  satisfaction.  "  Some  people," 
said  he,  "  have  a  foolish  way  of  not  minding,  or  pre- 
tending not  to  mind  what  they  eat  i  for  my  part,  I  mind 

mologlcal  illustration,  I  am  indebted  to  ray  scientific  friend,. 
Apicius    Ccelius,  junr.,    with    whose    erudite    observations 
several  of  the  pages  of  this  work  are  enriched,  as  will  be  un- 
derstood when  the  signature  A.  C.  junr.  is  affixed, 
a5 


PREFACE. 

ray  belly  very  studiously  and  very  carefully,  and  I 
look  upon  it,  that  he  who  does  not  mind  his  belly,  will 
hardly  mind  any  thing  else."  Mr.  B.  adds,  "  I  never 
knew  a  man  who  relished  good  eating  more  than  he 
did:  when  at  table,  he  was  totally  absorbed  in  the 
business  of  the  moment :  nor  would  he,  unless  in  very 
high  company,  say  one  word,  or  even  pay  the  least  at- 
tention to  what  was  said  by  others,  till  he  had  satisfied 
his  appetite." 

The  Receipts  are  the  results  of  experiments  carefully 
made  and  accurately  and  circumstantially  detailed,  the 
time  requisite  for  dressing  being  stated,  and  the  quantities 
of  the  various  articles  contained  in  each  composition  being 
given  either  by  weight  or  measure  *,  a  precision  never 
before  attempted  in  former  cookery  books,  but  which 
I  found  indispensable,  from  the  impossibility  of  guessing 
the  quantities  intended  by  the  usual  obscure  expressions 

*  The  weights  are  avoirdupois;  the  measure,  the  gradu- 
ated jjlass  used  by  apothecaries,  which  appeared  more  accu- 
rate and  convenient  than  any,  the  pint  being  divided  into  six- 
teen ounces,  and  the  ounce  into  eight  drachms  :  by  a  wine- 
glass, is  to  be  understood  two  ounces  of  apothecaries'  liquid 
measure;  by  a  large  or  table  spoonful,  half  an  ounce;  by  a 
small  or  tea  spoonful,  a  drachm,  or  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce, 
i.  e.  nearly  equal  to  two  drachms  avoirdupois.  At  Hancock's 
glass  warehouse,  in  Cockspur  Street,  Charing  Cross,  you  may 
get  measures  divided  into  tea  and  table  spoons.  No  cook 
should  be  without  one,  who  wishes  to  be  regular  in  her 
business. 


PREFACE. 

employed  for  this  purpose  in  former  works ;  such  as,  a 
little  bit  of  salt,  a  good  bit  of  butter,  a  handful  of  this, 
a  pinch  of  that,  a  shake  of  pepper,  a  squeeze  of  lemon, 
a  dash  of  vinegar,  a  dust  of  flour,  and  season  it  to  your 
palate,  (meaning  the  cook's,)  which,  if  she  has  any,  it  is 
very  unlikely  that  it  is  in  unison  with  that  of  her  em- 
ployers, as,  by  continually  tasting  piquante  relishes, 
it  becomes  blunted  and  insensible,  and  soon  loses 
the  faculty  of  appreciating  delicate  flavours,  so  that  every 
thing  is  done  at  random. 

These  culinary  technicals*  are  so  difi'erently  estimated 
by  diflferent  cooks,  and  "  the  rule  of  thumb"  is  so  ex- 
tremely indefinite,  that  if  the  same  dish  be  dressed  by 
two  persons,  it  will  generally  be  so  unlike,  that 
nobody  would  imagine  they  had  worked  from  the  same 
directions  ;  nor  will  they  assist  a  person  who  has  not 
served  a  regular  apprenticeship  in  the  kitchen,  more 
than  reading  "  Robinson  Crusoe"  would  ienable  a  sailor  to 
steer  safely  from  England  to  India. 

*  "  In  the  present  language  of  cookery,  there  has  been  a 
■woeful  departure  from  the  sirapiicity  of  our  ancestors;  such  a 
farrago  of  unappropriate  and  unmeaning  terms,  many  cor- 
rupted from  the  French,  others  disguised  from  the  Italian, 
some  misapplied  from  the  German,  wiule  many  are  a  dis" 
grace  to  the  English.  What  can  any  person  suppose  to  be 
the  meaning  of  a  shoulder  of  lamb  in  epigram,  ui  less  it  vvere 
a  poor  dish,  for  a  pennyiess  poet  ?  aspect  ofji)ikj  uould  appear 
calculated  for  an  astrologer,  and  shoulder  of  mutton  surprised^ 
desigp.ed  for  a  sheep-stealer." — A.  C.junr. 


PRF.FACE. 

This  carelessness  in  the  cook  is  the  more  surj)risln2^, 
as  the  confectioner  is  regularly  attentive,  in  the  descrip- 
tion of  his  preparations,  to  give  tlie  exact  quanlities, 
tliough  iiis  business,  con)])ared  to  cookery,  is  as  unim- 
portant as  the  ornamental  is  inferior  to  the  useful :  yet 
the  maker  of  hianchmange,  custanis,  and  trifles,  an(t 
the  endless  and  useless  collection  of  pretty  play-thing* 
for  the  palate,  is  scrupulously  exact,  even  to  a  grain,  itt 
his  ingredients,  whilst  the  cooks  affect  to  be  most  unin- 
telligibly indefinite,  although  they  are  intrusted  with  the 
administration  of  our  food,  upon  the  proper  preparation 
of  which  all  our  powers  of  both  body  and  mind  dej)end  ; 
the  energy  being  invariably  in  the  ratio  of  the  perform- 
ance of  the  restorative  process.  Unless  the  stomach  be 
in  good  humour,  every  part  of  the  machinery  of  life 
will  vibrate  with  languor. 

We  may  compare  the  human  frame  to  a  watch,  of 
which  the  heart  is  the  main  spring,  the  stomach  the  re- 
gulator, ami  what  we  pat  into  it  the  key  by  which  the 
machine  is  set  agoing;  according  to  the  quantity, 
quality,  and  proper  digestion  of  what  we  eat  and 
drink,  will  be  the  pace  of  the  pulse,  and  the  action  of 
the  system  in  general :  and  when  a  due  proportion  is 
preserved  between  the  (piantuni  of  exercise  and  that  of 
cxritement,  all  goes  well:  when  disordered,  the  same 
expedients  are  enii:>;o}ed  for  its  readjustment  as  are 
used  by  the  watch  maker;  the  machine  requires  to  be 
carefully  cleaned,,  and  then  judiciously  oiled. 


FREFACE. 

Thus  does  our  health  always,  and  the  life  often  of 
invalids,  and  those  who  have  weak  and  infirm  stomachs, 
depend  upon  the  skill  of  the  cook.  Our  forefathers 
were  so  well  aware  of  this,  that  in  days  of  yore  no  man  of 
consequence  thought  of  making  a  day's  journey  without 
taking  his  "  Magister  Coqiiorum'  w'lXh,  him.  The  variety 
of  this  talent  in  a  high  degree  is  so  well  understood, 
thai  besides  very  considerable  pecuniary  compensa- 
tion, his  Majesty's  first  and  second  cooks  are  now  Es- 
quires by  their  olFice  ;  and  we  have  every  reason  to  sup- 
pose they  were  persons  of  equal  dignity  heretofore.  In 
Dr.  Pegge's  "  Forme  of  Cur i/"  Svo.  London,  1780,  wc 
read,  that  when  Cardinal  Otto,  the  pope's  legate,  was  a-t 
Oxford,  A. D.  1248,  his  brotiier  officiated  as  *'  Magisfei" 
CoquinfcJ'  This  important  post  has  always  been  held  as 
a  situation  of  high  trust  and  confidence,  and  the  "  Mn<r^ 
mis  Coquug,"  chief  cook,  or  Master-Kifchiner,  has, 
time  immemorial,  been  an  officer  of  considerable  dig' 
nity  in  the  palaces  of  princes. 

I  believe  it  is  a  generally  received  opinion,  which 
the  experience  of  every  individual  can  confirm,  that 
the  food  we  fancy  most,  appears  to  sit  easiest  on  the 
stomach:  liie  functions  of  digestion  must  go  on 
more  merrily  when  exercised  by  food  we  relish,  than 
w  hen  we  eat  merely  because  it  is  the  usual  hour  of  dining, 
or  swallow  something  out  of  necessity,  to  appease 
Ihe  raging  of  the  gastric  juices. 

Instinct  speaks  pretty  plainly  to  those  whose  instru- 


PREFACE. 

ments  of  digestion  are  in  a  delicate  ^nd  impaired  state, 
and  commonly  pleads  with  more  perfect  truth  (for  those 
materials  thev  stand  most  in  need  of,)  than  any  dietetic 
rules  that  can  be  contrived. 

To  affirm  tliat  such  a  thing  is  wholesome,  or  un- 
wholesonje,  without  considering  the  sul)ject  in  all  the 
circumstances  which  it  bears  relation  to,  is,  with  sub- 
mission, talking  nonsense  *. 

No  regimen  of  life  can  be  laid  down  that  will  suit 
every  body  ;  no  food  is  so  delicious  that  it  pleases  all 
palates ;  and  nothing  can  be  more  correct  than  the  old 
adage,  '*  one  man's  meat  is  another  man's  poison." 

It  would  be  as  difficult  for  a  Laplander  to  convince 
our  good  citizens  that  train  oil  is  a  more  elegant  relish 

*  Cehus  spoke  very  sensibly  v.hen  he  said,  "  that  a  healthy 
man  under  his  own  governraent,  ought  not  to  tie  himself  up 
by  strict  rules,  nor  to  abstain  from  any  sort  of  food;  that  he 
ought  sometimes  to  fast,  and  sometimes  to  feast.''  When  ap- 
plied to  eating,  nothing  is  more  true  than  that 

"  Bonurum  rerum,  consuetudo  pessima  est." 
The  author  of  this  work  wishes  he  had  leisure  to  devote  more 
time  to  the  subject.  An  ingenious  chemist,  and  an  intelligent 
cook,  might  form  a  very  complete  work,  by  taking  for  their 
text  Dr.  George  Pearson's  admirably  ar  anged  catalogues 
of  food,  drink,  and  seasoning;  the  most  comprehensive  and 
karned  abstract  of  this  subject  we  have  ever  seen.  This 
epitome  was  printed  for  his  Lectures  on  Therapeutics,  &c. 
which  the  author  attended  in  1801. 


PREFACE. 

.than  their  favourite  turtle,  as  for  the  former  to  fancy 
that  Alderman  Birch  or  Mr.  Angeli's  soup  can  be  as 
agreeable,  as  the  grease  and  garbage,  which  custom  has 
taught  him  to  call  delicious. 

The  cook,  therefore,  should  be  cautious  of  seasoning 
high,  and  leave  it  to  the  eaters  to  add  the  condiments 
according  to  their  own  palate  and  fancy  :  for  this  pur- 
pose, **  The  Magazine  of  TastCy'  or  *'  Sauce-box*  "  will 
be  found  an  invaluable  acquisition,  as  its  contents 
will  instantaneously  produce  any  flavour  that  may  be 
desired. 

I  have  a  very  good  reason  to  give  in  support  of  my 
doctrine,  that  what  the  appetite  desires  most,  the  sto- 
mach will  digest  best,  which  is,  that  masticationf,  the 

*  Vide  No.  463. 

t  To  chew  long  and  leisurely  is  the  only  way  to  extract  the 
quintessence  of  our  food,  to  completely  enjoy  the  taste  of  it^ 
and  to  render  it  easily  assimilable  and  convertible  into  lauda- 
ble chyle,  by  the  facility  it  gives  to  the  gastric  juices  to  dissolve 
it  without  trouble.  The  pleasure  of  the  palate,  and  the 
health  of  the  stomach,  are  equally  promoted  by  this  salutary 
habit,  which  all  should  be  taught  to  acquire  in  their  infancy. 
The  more  tender  the  meat  is,  the  more  we  may  eat  of  it. 
From  thirty  to  forty  may  be  given  as  the  mean  number  of 
munches  that  solid  meat  requires,  to  prepare  it  for  its  journey 
down  the  red  lane,  according  to  the  tenderness  of  the  meat ; 
less  will  be  sufficient  for  tender,  delicate,  and  easily  digest- 
ible white  meats.  The  sagacious  g^ounnand  must  calculate 
this  precisely,  and  not  waste  his  precious  moments  in  useless 


PREFACE. 

first  act  of  the  important  process  of  digestion,  is  then 
more  perfectly  performed  ;  because,  as  we  naturally 
detain  upon  our  palate  those  things  which  please  it,  the 
food  we  relish  most  is  consequently  most  broken  down 
by  chewing,  and  most  intimately  incorporated  with  the 
saliva. 

To  encourage  the  best  performance  of  the  machinery 
of  mastication,  the  cook  must  take  care  that  her  din- 
ner is  not  only  well  dressed,  but  that  each  dish  be  sent 
to  table  with  its  proper  accompaniments  in  the  neat- 
est and  most  elegant  manner. 

jaw-work,  or  invite  an  indigestion  by  neglecting  mastication. 
I  cannot  give  any  rules  for  this,  as  it  depends  so  much  on  the 
strength  or  weakness  of  the  subject,  especially  the  state  of  the 
teeth  and  maxillary  glands :  every  one  ought  to  ascertain  the 
condition  of  these  useful  working  tools,  and  to  use  them  with 
proportionate  diligence  is  an  indispensable  exercise  which  every 
rational  epicure  will  cheerfully  perform,  who  has  a  proper 
regard  for  the  welfare  of  his  stomach/' — Almanack  des  Gour- 
mands, vol.  iii.  page  249,  &c.  Mastication  is  the  source  of  all 
good  digestion  :  with  it  almost  any  thing  may  be  put  into  any 
stomach  with  impunity  :  without  it,  digestion  must  be  always 
difficult,  and  frequently  impossible :  and  be  it  remem- 
bered, it  is  not  merely  what  we  eat,  but  what  we  digest  well, 
that  nourishes  us.  The  sagacious  gourmand  is  ever  raindfnl 
ot  his   motto, 

"  3Iasticate,  dentkale,  chump,  grind,  and  szcallotc  :'* 
The  four  first  acts  of  which  he  knows  he  must  perform  weH;> 
before  he  dare  attempt  the  fifth,'' 


PREFACE. 

Ilemember,  that  to  excite  the  good  opinion  of  the 
eve,  is  the  first  step  towards  awakening  the  appetite. 

Decoration  is  much  more  rationally  employed  in 
rendering  a  plain,  wholesome,  and  nutritious  dish  in- 
viting, than  in  the  elaborate  embellishments  which  are 
crowded  about  custards  and  trifles. 

Not  only  the  health  and  comfort  of  the  family,  but  so 
many  other  things  are,  of  necessity,  intrusted  to  her  dis- 
cretion, that  an  honest  and  frugal  cook  who  knows  her 
business,  and  conscientiously  studies  the  interest  of  her 
employers,  deserves  every  encouragement ;  and  if  you 
are  not  generous  enough  to  give  it  to  her  in  money,  you 
invite  her  to  levy  contributions  on  every  article' con- 
fided to  her  care ;  and  do  not  be  surprised,  should  she 
now  and  then  strip  your  meat  of  its  fat,  crib  your 
candles,  and  cabbage  your  potatoes,  to  increase  the 
weight  of  the  grease-pot.  Depend  upon  it,  *'  true 
self-love  and  social  are  the  same;"  and  i  am  always  for 
giving  to  those  we  are  obliged  to  trust,  every  inducement 
to  be  honest,  and  no  temptations  to  play  tricks. 

"  It  is  impossible  for  a  cook  in  large  families  to  attend 
to  her  business  in  the  kitchen  with  any  degree  of  certain 
perfection,  if  she  is  employed  in  other  houseiiold  con- 
cerns. It  is  a  service  of  such  importance,  and  so  ditli 
cult  to  perform  even  tolerably  well,  that  it  is  sulKcientto 
engross  the  entire  devotion  and  attenlion  of  at  least  one 
person.  Yet,  this  is  a  maxim  which  is  neither  generally 
understood  nor  admired  in  some  families,    where  the 


PREFACE, 

cook  is  also  expected  to  be  a  house  servant,  and  coals  arc 
meted  out  to  her  by  the  quart,  and  butter  by  the  pat, 
&c. :  nevertheless,  these  unreasonable  masters  and  mis- 
tresses are  surprised  if  most  of  their  ragouts,  and 
sauces,  &c.  are  spoiled  ;  and  the  roasts  either  burnt  up, 
or  not  half  done ;  but  how  can  it  be  otherwise,  when  the 
cook  is  obliged  to  be  the  slave  of  the  bell  1"  &c. 

A  good  cook  has  really  quite  enough  to  do  if  she  at- 
tends perfectly  to  her  own  business  ;  and  those  who  wish 
to  have  their  tables  well  served,  must  not  require  any 
more  of  her,  and  are  fortunate  mortals  if  they  regularly 
obtain  this.  Mistress  of  her  time,  she  will  devote  the 
whole  of  it  to  her  art;  rising  with  the  sun  in  winter, 
and  by  six  in  summer,  her  first  care  will  be  to  set 
every  thing  to  rights  in  her  kitchen,  see  that  all  her 
utensils  are  perfectly  clean,  and  arrange  them  in  their 
proper  places.  This  done,  she  puts  on  her  soup-kettle, 
and  does  not  leave  it  till  she  has  well  skimmed  it :  she 
will  then  go  early  to  market,  to  have  the  opportunity  of 
selecting  from  those  shops  which  have  the  best  choice, 
and  charge  reasonably.  On  her  return  home,  she 
will  prepare  the  dinner  according  to  the  bill  of  fare 
which  she  has  settled  with  her  master  the  evening 
before ;  prepare  her  made  dishes,  ragouts,  &c.  &o. 
for  the  second  course;  lard  and  trim  the  roasts;  and,  in 
a  word,  get  every  thmg  ready  in  time,  so  that  the  ser- 
vice may  not  meet  with  any  obstruction. 

When  this  time  comes,  she  seasons  her  soup,  garnishes 


PREFACE. 

all  her  dishes,  and  disposes  them  in  the  order  they  are 
to  appear  in. 

Besides  understanding  the  management  of  the  spit, 
the  stewpans,  and  the  rolling-pin,  a  complete  cook  must 
know  how  to  go  to  market,  write  legibly,  and  keep 
accounts:  she  must,  moreover,  have  a  full  share  of 
cleanliness,  good  temper,  and  activity;  never  give  herself 
airs,  but  receive  as  the  highest  testimonies  of  her  em- 
ployers' regard,  whatever  observations  they  make  on  her 
work,  as  the  most  unequivocal  proofs  of  their  desire  to 
make  her  thoroughly  understand  their  taste,  and  retain 
her  in  their  service.  She  must  entirely  enter  into  all  their 
plans  of  economy,  and  endeavour  to  make  the  most  of 
every  thing,  as  well  for  her  own  honour,  as  her  master's 
profit. 

In  those  houses  where  the  cook  enjoys  the  confidence 
of  her  master  so  much  as  to  be  intrusted  with  the  care 
of  the  store-room,  which  is  not  very  common,  she  will 
keep  an  exact  account  of  every  thing  as  it  comes  in,  for 
her  own  satisfaction,  as  well  as  that  of  her  employer, 
and  will  not  trust  the  key  of  this  room  to  any  one;  she 
will  also  keep  an  account  of  every  thing  she  takes  from 
it,  and  manage  with  as  much  consideration  and  fru- 
gality as  if  it  was  her  own  property  she  was  using,  en- 
deavouring to  disprove  the  adage,  that  *'  plenty  makes 
waste."  The  honesty  of  a  cook  must  be  above  all 
suspicion  :  she  should  obtain,  and  (in  spite  of  the 
numberless  temptations   that  daily  oiler   to   bend  her 


PREFACK.  i 

from  it,)  preserve  a  character  of  spotless  integrity,  re-  ; 

niembering  it  is  the  fair  price  of  independence,  which  all  i 

wish    for,   but   none   without  it  can   hope  for :  ofili/  a  ; 

fool  or  a  madman  will  be  so  silly  or  so  crazy  as  lo  expect  [ 

to  reap  where  he  has  bctn  loo  idle  to  soiv.  ] 

If  we  now  take  a   review  of  the  qualifications*  we  * 

have  set  down  as  indispensable,  to  form  that  highly  es-  : 

timable  domestic,  **  a  complete,  good  cook,"  we  shail  find  ■ 
how  very  few  deserve  that  name.   The  majority  of  those 
Mho  set  up  for  masters  and  mistresses  of  this  art,  are 
grovelling,  dirty  creatures;  selfish,  and  pilfering  every 

"  *  He  must  be  endowed  with  a  full  portion  of  common 
sense;   quick  and  strong  of  sight;  his  hearint^  most  acute,  that   ' 
he  may  be  sensible  when  the  contents  of  his  vessels  bubble, 
although  they  be  closely  covered,  and  that  he  may  be  alarmed    i 
before  the  pot  boils  over:  his  auditory  nerve  ought  to  discri-    '. 
minate  (when  several  saucepans  are  in  operation  at  the  same 
time,)  the  simmering  of  one,  the  ebullition  of- another,  and  the  ^ 
full  toned  wabbling  of  a  third.  *• 

"  It  is  imperiously  requisite  that  his  ofgan  of  smell  be  highly  i 
susceptible  of  the  various  effluvia,  that  his  nose  may  distin-  \ 
guish  the  perfection  of  aromatic  ingredients,  and  that  in  ani-»  , 
mal  substances  it  shall  evince  a  suspicious  accuracy  between 
tenderness  and  putrefaction  :  above  all,  his  olfactories  should  , 
be  tremblingly  alive  tomustiness  and  empyreuma. 

"  It  is  from  the  exquisite  sensibility  of  his  palate,  that  we  ad- 
mire and  judge  of  the  cook;  and  from  the  alliance  between  the 
olfactory  and  sapid  organs  it  will  be  seen,  that  their  perfection 
is  indispensable.'* — A.  C.junr. 


PREFACE. 

thing  they  can:  others  add  indolence  to  insolence: 
those  who  understand  their  business,  (which  are  by  far 
the  smallest  number,)  are  too  often  either  most  ridicu- 
lously saucy,  or  insatiably  thirsty  ;  in  a  word,  a  good 
subject,  in  this  class,  is  a  vara  avis  indeed. 

**  Happy  the  master  who  finds  a  servant,  who  with  a 
proper  knowledge  of  her  business  unites  a  zeal  and 
pride  to  perform  it  to  the  best  of  her  abilities,  and  is, 
moreover,  honest  and  cleanly :  for  the  rest,  he  must  be 
indulgent,  and  such  a  servant  deserves  to  be  treated 
with  some  consideration.  Give  her  liberal  wages, 
according  to  her  deserts,  and  treat  her  with  kindness, 
but  without  familiarity  :  do  not  pass  any  dish  without 
observation,  qualifying  your  censure  by  telling  her, 

"  The  reason  why  1  point  out  faults  sq  small, 
Is,  'cause  'tis  better  to  have  none  at  all." 

When  you  make  out  the  bill  of  fare  for  the  next  day, 
lake  every  opportunity  of  encouraging  her.  Due  praise 
is  the  most  agreeable  reward  a  woman  can  receive,  and 
more  gratifying  than  pecuniary  compensation ;  and 
is  the  way  to  make  a  faithful  servant,  who  will  be  a 
treasure." 

The  foregoing  observations  are  from  the  ingenious 
French  author  we  iiave  before  quoted. 

I  have  submitted  (with  no  small  pains,)  to  an  atten- 
tive perusal  of  every  preceding  work,  connected  with 
the  subject,  that  I  could  meet  with  ;  in  number  amount- 


PREFACE. 

ing  to  no  fewer  than  one  hundred  and  seventeen.  These 
books  vary  but  little  from  each  other,  except  in  the 
prefatory  matter:  cutting  and  pasting  seem  to  have 
been  much  oftener  employed  than  the  pen  and  ink : 
any  one  who  has  occasion  to  refer  to  two  or  three  of 
them,  will  fiud  the  receipts  almost  always  "  verbatim  et 
literatim ;"  equally  unintelligible  to  those  who  are  igno- 
rant of,  and  ustless  to  those  who  are  acquainted  with, 
the  business  of  the  kitchen. 

In  my  tedious  progress  through  these  books,  I  often 
wished  the  authors  had  been  satisfied  with  giving  us 
the  results  of  their  own  practice  and  experience*,  iu- 

*  Thomas  Carter,  in  the  preface  to  his  "  City  and  Country 
Cook,'''  London,  1738,  says,  "  What  I  have  published,  is  al- 
most the  only  book,  one  or  two  excepted,  which  of  late  years 
has  come  into  the  world,  that  has  been  the  result  of  the 
author's  own  practice  and  experience :  for  though  very  few 
eminent  practical  cooks  have  ever  cared  to  publish  what  they 
knew  of  the  art ;  yet  they  have  been  prevailed  on,  for  a  small 
premium  from  a  bookseller,  to  lend  their  names  to  perform- 
ances in  this  art,  unworthy  their  owning." 

Robert  May,  in  the  introduction  to  his  '^Accomplished  Cook,'^ 
1665,  says,  "  To  all  honest  and  well-intendiyig  persons  of  my 
profession^  and  others,  thi$  book  cannot  but  be  acceptable,  as 
it  plainly  and  profitably  discovers  the  mystery  of  the  whole  art ; 
for  which,  though  I  may  be  envied  by  some,  that  only  value 
their  private  interests  above  posterity  and  the  public  good  ; 
yet,  (he  adds,)  God  and  my  own  conscience  would  not  permit 
Oie  to  buj'y  these,  my  experiences,  with  my  silver  hairs  in  the 
grave. 


PREFACE. 

stead  of  idly  perpetuating  the  errors  and  prejudices  of 
their  predecessors,  by  copying  the  strange,  unaccount- 
able, and  uselessly  extravagant  farragos,  and  hetero- 
geneous compositions*,  which  fill  their  pages;  com- 
binations which  no  rational  being  would  ever  think 
of  either  dressing  or  eating,  and  without  having 
applied  both  these  tests,  and  ascertaining  the  practica- 
bility of  preparing  their  receipts,  and  their  ealability 
when  done,  they  should  never  have  ventured  to  recom- 
mend them  to  others ;  so  that  the  reader  may  put  the 
same  quccre,  as  Jeremy,  in  Congreve's  comedy  of 
**  Love  for  Love,"  when  Valentine  observes,  "There's  a 
page  doubled  down  in  Epictetus,  that  is  a  feast  for  an 
emperor." — Jer,  Was  Epictetus  a  real  cook,  or  did 
he  only  write  receipts  ]" 

H  alf  of  these  books  are  made  up  with  pages  cut  out  of 
obsolete  works,  such  as  the  **  Choice  Manuel  of  Secrets,^* 
the  "  True  Gentlewoman's  Delight,"  &c.  of  as  much 
use,  in  this  age  of  refinement,  as  the  following  curious 
quotation  from  *•  The  Accomplished  Lady's  rich  Closet  of 
Rarities,  or  ingenious  Gentlewoman's  Delightful  Com' 
panion,"  12mo.,  London,  l653,  chapter  7,  page  42: 
V  A  gentlewoman  being  at  table,  abroad  or  at  home. 


*  To  farce  (the  culinary  technical  for  to  stuff,)  a  boiled  leg  of 
mutton  with  red  herrings  and  garlick,  and  many  other  receipts 
•fas  high  a  relish ;  and  easy  of  digestion  as  the  devil^s  venison, 
i.  e.  a  roasted  tiger  stuffed  withtenpenny  nails. 


PREFACE. 

must  observe  to  keep  her  body  straight,  and  lean  not 
by  any  means  with  her  elbows,  nor  by  ravenous  gesture 
discover  a  voracious  appetite ;  take  not  in  your  wine  too 
greedily,  nor  drink  not  till  you  are  out  of  breath,  but 
do  things  with  decency  and  order,  gnaw  no  bones,  keep 
your  fingers  from  your  mouth,  throw  not  any  thing 
over  your  shoulders  :"  with  the  addition  of  what  they 
call  **  a  choice  collection  of  excellent  and  approved 
family  receipts  of  sovereign  efficacy  in  all  manner  of 
maladies:"  the  proper  appellation  for  which  would  be, 
"  a  dangerous  budget  of  medical  vulgar  errors  ;"  com- 
monly concluding  with  a  bundle  of  extracts  from  *'  The 
Gardener's  Calendar ^^  '*  The  Vintner's  Fade  3Iecum,'* 
and  '*  The  Publican's  Daily  Companion."  But  let  us 
remember,  that 

"  One  science  only  will  one  genius  fit, 
So  wide  is  art,  so  narrow  human  wit." 

And  without  in(erferin^  with  the  physician  or  the 
gardener,  the  publican  or  the  vintner,  our  Book  will  be 
confined  to  the  business  of  the  kitchen,  to  endeavour  to 
improve  the  ignorant,  and  remind  the  skilful,  how  and 
when  to  make  the  best  and  the  most  of  every  thing.  I 
have  taken  xery  great  pains  to  teach  the  young  cook  how 
to  perform,  in  the  best  manner,  the  common  business  of 
her  profession  ;  and  being  well  grounded  in  that,  she 
will  find  it  easy  to  do  all  the  rest  to  satisfaction,  and 
will  be  able  to  shew,  that  an  English  girl,  properly  in- 


PREFACE. 

structed,  can  equal  the  best  foreign  gentleman  iu 
every  thing,  except  impudence  and  extravagance,  and 
send  up  a  delicious  dinner  with  half  the  usual  expense 
and  trouble.  I  have  endeavoured  to  lessen  the  labour 
of  those  who  wish  to  be  thoroughly  acquainted  with 
their  profession ;  and  they  will  find,  that  an  attentive 
perusal  of  the  following  pages  will  save  them  much  of 
the  irksome  drudgery  attending  an  apprenticeship  at 
the  stove ;  an  ordeal  so  severe,  that  few  pass  it  with- 
out irreparable  injury  to  their  health,  whilst  many  lose 
their  lives  before  they  learn  their  business.  "  Cleanliness, 
and  a  proper  ventilation  to  carry  off  smoke  and  steam, 
should  be  particularly  attended  to  in  the  construction 
of  a  kitchen;  and  the  grand  scene  of  action,  the  fire- 
place, should  be  placed  where  it  may  receive  plenty  of 
light :  hitherto  the  contrary  has  prevailed,  and  the  poor 
cook  is  continually  basted  with  his  own  perspiration." 
— A.  C.  Junr.* 

^  A  good  dinner  is  one  of  the  greatest  enjoyments  of  human 
life;  and  the  practice  of  cookery  is  attended  with  not  only  so 
many  disgusting  and  disagieeable  circumstances,  but  even 
dangers,  tliat  we  ought  to  have  some  regard  for  those  who  en- 
counter them  for  our  pleasure,  and  to  reward  their  attention, 
by  rendering  their  situation  every  way  as  agreeable  and  com- 
fortable as  we  can,  for  mere  money  is  not  a  sufficient  com- 
pensation to  a  complete  cook. 

To  say  nothing  of  the  deleterious  vapours  and  exhalations 
of  the  charcoal,  which  60on  undermine  the  health  of  the 
b 


PREFACE. 

I  have  here  done  my  utmost  candidly  to  communi- 
cate, in  as  clear  and  intelligible  a  manner  as  I  am  able, 

heartiest,  the  glare  of  a  vivid  scorching  fire,  and  the  smoke 
so  baneful  to  the  eyes  and  the  coinple^^ion  :  these  are  conti-^ 
nual   and  inevitable  dangers,  and   a  cook,  must  live   in  the 
midst  of  them,  as  a  soldier  in  a  field  of  battle,  surrounded  by 
bullets,    and    bombs,    and    Congreve's    rockets ;    with    this 
only  difference,  that  for  the  first,  every  day  is  a  fighting  day, 
that   his  warfare  is  almost  always  without   glory,"    and   his 
most   praiseworthy  achievements  pass  not  only  without  re- 
ward, but  frequently  without  even  thanks;  for  the  name  of 
the  most  consummate  cook  is,  alas!  seldom  heard  by  the*  ■ 
guests  who  frequent  his  master's  table  J  who,  while  ihey  are*^ 
eagerly  devouring  his  turtle,  and  drinking  his  wine,  care  very 
little  who  dressed  the  one,  or  sent  the  other. 

The  master  who  wishes  to  enjoy  the  rare  luxury  of  a  table 
regularly  well  served  in  the  best  style,  must  treat  his  cook 
as  his  friend,  and  watch  over  his  health  *  with  the  tenderest 
care,  and  especially  be  sure  his  taste  dots  not  suffer  from  his 
stomiich  being  deranged  by  bilious  attacks,  &c. 

The  most  experienced  artists  cannot  be  sure  of  their  work 
without  tasting  ;  they  must  be  incessantly  tasting;  and  the 
spoon  of  a  good  cook  is  continually  passing  from  the  stewpans 
to  his  tongue;  for  nothing  but  fiequent  tasting  his  sauces,^ -S 
ragouts,    Szc.f   can   discover    to    him    what    progress    they'^*' 


*  The  greatest  care  should  be  taken  by  the  man  of  fashion, 
that  his  cook's  health  be  preserved  : .  one  hundredth  part  of 
the  attention  usually  bestowed  on  his  dog.,  or  his  horse,  will 
Siiffice^to  regulate  his  animal  system. — A.  C.  Junr. 


PREFACE. 


tlie  whale  trulh  of  the  heretofore  abstruse  mysteries  of 
the  culinary  art ;  herein,  I  hope,  so  plainly  developed, 


liave  made,  or  enable  him  to  season  the  soup  with  any  cer- 
tainty of  success  :  his  palate,  therefore,  must  be  in  the  highest 
state  of  excitability,  that  the  least  fault  may  be  perceived 
by  it. 

But,  alas !  the  constant  empyreumatic  fumes  of  the  stoves, 
the  necessity  of  frequent  drinking,  and  often  of  bad  beer,  to 
moisten  a  parched  throat ;  in  short,  every  thing  around  him 
conspires  quickly  to  vitiate  the  organs  of  taste  :  the  palate 
becomes  blunted,  its  quickness  of  feeling  and  delicacy,  on 
which  the  sensibility  of  the  organs  of  taste  depends,  grows 
daily  .mare  obtuse,  and  in  time  becomes  quite  indurated,  and 
the  gustatory  nerves  unexcitable  and  unmoveable. 

When  you  find  your  cook  neglect  his  business,  that  his  ragouts 
are  too  highly  spiced  or  salted,  and  his  cookery  has  too  much  of 
the"  haut  go6t,"  you  may  be  sure  that  his  index  oft;  ste  wants 
regulating,  that  his  palate  has  lost  its  sensibility^  and  that  it  is 
timeto  call  in  the  assistanceofthe  apothecary,  who  will  prepare 
him  well,  by  two  days'  aqueous  diet,  and  give  him  a  purging 
potion,  composed  ofmanna,  senna,  and  salts,  regulating  the 
dose  according  to  the  greater  or  less  insensibility  of  his  palate ; 
give  him  a  day's  rest,  and  then  purge  him  again;  let  him  have 
two  days'  rest  after  his  second  dose  of  physic,  and  you  may 
then  hope  to  have  at  the  head  of  your  stoves  a  man 
altogether  renovated. 

This  receipt,  to  ensure  good  cheer,  is  no  joke,  but  the  actual 
practice  in  those  kitchens  where  the  master  is  proud  of  the  re- 
b2 


PREFACE. 

that  the  most  ignorant  student  in  the  occvilt  art  of 
cookery  may  comprehend  and  work  from  my  receipts 
with  the  utmost  faciUty  :  and  thus  they  will  soon  acquire 
the  enviable  art  of  adorning  the  table  with  that  splendid 
frugality  which  cannot  fail  to  give  every  possible  satis- 
faction. 

I  am  well  aware  of  the  extreme  difficulty  of  the  task 
I  have  undertaken,  in  attenjpting  to  teach  those  who  are 
entirely  unacquainted  with  the  subject,  and  to  convey 
my  ideas  correctly  by  mere  receipts  to  those  who  have 
had  no  opportunity  of  seeing  the  work  performed  ;  and 
in  my  anxiety  to  be  readily  understood,  I  have,  perhaps, 
been  under  the  necessity  of  occasionally  repeating  the 
same  directions  in  different  parts  of  the  book  :  however, 
I  chose  rather  to  be  censured  for  repetition,  than  for 
omission  or  obscurity. 

putation  of  his  table.  All  great  cooks  submit  to  the  operation 
without  a  murmur;  to  prevent  which,  it  should  be  made  the 
first  condition  in  hiring  them.  Those  who  refuse,  prove 
they  were  not  born  to  become  masters  of  their  art ;  and  their 
indifference  to  fame  will  rank  them,  as  they  deserve,  among 
those  stupid  slaves,  who  pass  their  lives  in  as  much  obscurity 
as  their  own  stewpans. 

To  the  preceding  observations  from  the  "  Almanach  des 
Gourmandsj^  we  may  add,  that  the  Mouthician  will  have 
a  still  better  chance  of  success,  if  he  can  prevail  on  his  master 
to  observe  the  same  regime  which  he  orders  for  his  cook. 


PREFACE* 

It  has  been   cusloniary  to  fill  a  certain  number  of      ; 
pages  with   "  proper  rules  to  be  observed  in  market-       \ 
ing"  iu  knowing  and  buying  poulterers',  fishinongers',      i 
and   butchers'  ware,    giving   a  true  insight   into    the 
mystery  of  each;  and,  indeed,  all  the  skill  of  the  most      ; 
accomplished  cook  will  avail    nothing,    unless   she  is 
furnished  with  prime  provisions.    The  best  way  to  pro-      j 
cure  these  is  to  deal  with  shops  of  established  charac-      i 
ter  :  you  may  pay,  perhaps,  ten  or  fifteen  per  cent  more      I 
than  you  would  were  you  to  deal  with  those  who  pre- 
tend to  sell  cheap,  but  you  will  be  more  than  in  propor-      ■ 
tion  better  served.     Every  trade  has  its   tricks  and  de- 
ceptions, and  those  who  follow  them  can  deceive  you 
if  they  please,  and  are  too  apt  to  do  so  if  you  provoke      j 
the  exercise  of  their  over-reaching  talent,  and  challenge     ! 
them  to  a  game  at  '*  catch  who  can,"  by  entirely  rely-     ; 
ing  on  your  own  judgment:  which  nothing  but  very 
long  experience  can  make  equal  to  the  combat  of  mar-     ' 
keting  to  the  utmost  advantage,  _  \ 

The  best  rule  for  marketing,  is  to^tf3^refl6(y    ^ 
money  for  every  thing,  and  to  deal  with  the  most  respect- 
able tradesmen  in  your  neighbourhood  ;  and  if  you  leave     • 
it  to  their  integrity  to  supply  you  with  a  good  article,  at    ; 
the  fair  market  price,  (I  have,  from  my  own  experience, 
every   reason  to   believe,)  you   will  be  supplied    with    I 
better  provisions,  at  as  reasonable  a  rate,  as  those  bar- 
gain hunters  who  trot  around  around   around   about  a 
market,  till  they  are  trapped  to  buy  some  unchewable  old    \ 
b3 


PREFACE. 

^louJtr^*,  starved  tough  mutton,  stringy  beef,  or  stale  fish, 
(at  a  little  less  than  the  price  of  prime  and  proper  food  •.) 

♦COURT  OF  REQUESTS,  Tuesday,  Nov.  5,1816. 

HOWARD  V.  PHILLIPS. 

This  was  a  case  of  some  importance  to  the  public.  The 
defendant,  a  walkiug  poulterer,  was  summoned  by  the  plaia- 
tiff,  a  widow  lady  residing  near  the  Asylum,  to  shew  cause 
wliy  he  did  not  pay  back  to  her  four  shillings,  which  he  had  ob- 
tafned  fiom  her  under  false  representations.  Tlie  plaintiff 
stated,  that  the  defendant  called  at  her  house  on  Wednesday 
last,  and  inquired  if  she  wanted  a  fine  fowl,,  as  he  had  some 
he  could  recommend.  She  desired  he  w  ould  select  her  one  she 
might  depend  upon  as  being  young  and  good.  He  accord- 
ingly picked  our  one  which  he  said  he  could  recommend  as 
being  a  young  one,  and  she  took  it  upon  his  recommeiiddtion, 
and  paid  him  four  shillings.  At  dinner,  however,  to  her  great 
dismay,  on  attempting  to  carve  this  delicate  young  chicken, 
»he  discovered  that  so  great  an  attachment  had  the  bones  and 
joints  formed  to  each  otiierfrom  long  acquaintance,  that  they 
successfully'  resisted  all  her  attempts  to  separate  them,  and 
she  was  obliged  to  give  over  the  attempt.  A  favourite  pug- 
-dog  was  then  allowed  to  commence  his  operations  upon  the 
breast,  but  so  thick  was  the  skin,  and  so  solid  the  flesh,  tiiat 
he,  after  much  labour,  found  himself  foiled,  as  his  mistress 
had  been  before  him.  On  the  following  day  the  plaintifl' 
applied  to  the  defendant,  sending  back  the  fiagmenis  of  the 
young  chicken,  and  desiring  to  have  her  money  back  again; 
but  the  defendant  positively  refused  either  to  receive  back 
bis  property,  or  to  refund  the  money  he  had  received ;  upou 
which  refwsa!,  the  plaintiff  summoned  him. 


PREFACE. 

with  tliese  they  toddle  home  in  triumph,  cackling  all  llie 
way,  like  a  goose  that  has  got  ankle  deep  into  good  luct. 

.  Mrs,  Howard's  servant  corroborated  her  statement,  asul 
added,  that  defendant,  as  he  was  quitting  the  house,  desired 
her  to  boil  the  fowl  double  the  time  her  mistress  told  lier, 
because  it  was  a  large  one.  It  was  accordingly  boiled  move 
than  double  the  usual  time. 

The  defendant  did  not  attempt  to  deny  that  the  fowl  was 
an  old  one,  but  said,  he  was  himself  deceived  by  the  person 
of  whom  he  purchased  it,  and  the  plaintiff  having  seen  it  be- 
fore she  paid  for  it,  could  not  complain  of  any  imposition 
being  practised  upon  her. 

The  Court,  however,  dtcided  that  the  defendant  should  re- 
fund the  four  shillings,  and  pay  all  the  costs.  It  was  plain, 
that  when  he  sold  the  fowl  he  was  aware  of  the  imposition  he 
was  practising.  He  had  given  evidence  of  this  himself,  by  der 
siring  the  servant  to  boil  it  longer  than  the  usual  time.  At 
the  same  lime,  however,  that  the  Court  thus  gave  judgment 
against  the  defendant,  they  could  not  avoid  censuring,  to  a 
certain  extent,  the  plaintiff,  and  ali  those  who  encouraged 
persons  of  the  defendant's  description,  by  dealing  with  them. 
Little  doubt  could  exis^  in  the  mind  of  any  one,  that  most  of 
the  fowls  thus  hawked  about  the  streets  were  stolen,  at  least  by 
those  who  sold  them  to  the  hawkers;  and  nvhilst  the  thieves 
could  find  so  ready  a  market  for  their  plunder,  there  was 
little  chance  that  the  robbing  of  fowl-houses  would  be  put 
an  end  to. 

The  defendant  being  informed,  that  unless  the  debt  and 
costs  were  immediately  paid,  an  execution   would  forthwith 
issue  against  him,  paid  the  sum  demanded,  and  departed. 
b  4 


PREFACE. 

.  If  you  have  a  well-ventilated  larder,  iu  a  shady,  di y 
situation,  you  will  ensure  nuich  credit  to  yourself  by 
ordering  in  your  meat  and  poultry  such  a  time  before 
you  want  it  as  will  render  it  tender,  which  the  finest 
meat  cannot  be,  unless  hung  a  proper  time  ;  (see  obser- 
vations on  roasting ;)  longer  or  shorter,  according  to  the 
season  and  nature  of  the  meat,  &c.,  but  always  till  it 
has  made  some  advance  towards  putrefaction  I  The  ten- 
dency to  that  takes  place  the  moment  that  life  is  extin- 
guished. The  allowing  this  process  to  proceed  to  a  cer- 
tain degree,  renders  the  nveat  more  easy  of  solution  in 
the  stomach,  without  diminishing  the  nutritious  quality 
of  it.  Before  yoii  go  to  market*  look  over  your  larder, 
and  it  will  save  you  much  time  and  trouble  to  make 
out  a  list  of  the  several  articles  you  want,  because  when 
once  your  kitchen  business  is  begun,  you  must  never 
leave  off  till  it  is  finished :  if  you  have  forgotten  any 
article  indispensable  for  the  day's  dinner,  request  your 
employers  to  send  one  of  the  servants  for  it:  the  cook 
must  never  quit  her  post  till  her  work  is  complete. 

It  is  not  expected  that  the  most  expert  artist  can  per- 
form his  work  in  a  perfect  manner,  without  a  sufficient 
number  of  proper  instruments  :  you  cannot  have  neat 
work  without  nice  tools;  nor  can  your  victuals  be  well 
dressed  without  an  apparatus  appropriate  to  the  work 

*  Especially  on  a  Saturday.  No  well-regulated  family 
must  suffer  the  disorderly  caterer  to  be  jumping  in  and  out  to 
the  chandler's  shop  on  a  Sunday  morning. 


PREFACE. 

required  :  it  will  be  (o  little  purpose  to  provide  good 
provisions,  without  proper  utensils  *  to  prepare  them  in  ; 
therefore,  after  a  few  words  of  Advice  to  Cooks  -f,  I 
begin  my  book  with  a  catalogue  of  such  articles  of 
kitchen  furniture  as  are  indispensably  necessary,  in  a 
moderate-sized  family  of  five  or  six  people,  who  occa- 
sionally entertain  half  a  dozen  friends. 

*  ''  A  surgeon  may  as  well  attempt  to  open  a  vela  with  an 
oyster  knife,  as  a  cook  pretend  to  dress  a  dinner  without  pro- 
per tools  to  do  it." — Preface  to  Verall*s  Cookery,  8vo.  Lon- 
don, 1759,  page  vi. 

t  A  chapter  of  Advice  to  Cooks  we  hope  will  be  found  as 
useful  as  it  is  original  :  all  we  have  on  this  subject  in  the  works 
of  our  predecessors  is  the  following:  "  I  shall  strongly  re- 
commend to  all  cooks  of  either  sex,  to  keep  their  stomachs 
free  from  strong  liquors,  and  their  noses  from  snuff." — Vide 
CLERMO^^T's  Professed  Cook,  page  30,  8vo.  London,  1776.. 


hs, 


ADVICE  TO  COOKS. 


On  your  first  coming  into  a  family,  lose  no  time  in  im- 
mediately getting  into  the  good  graces  of  your  fellow- 
servants,  that  you  may  learn  from  them  the  customs  of 
the  kitchen,  and  the  various  rules  and  orders  of  the 
house;  especially  take  care  to  be  on  good  terms  with 
the  servant  who  waits  at  table  ;  you  will  then  hear  how 
your  work  has  pleased  in  the  parlour,  and  be  enabled 
to  rectify  any  mistake:  also  request  the  favour  of  an  in- 
terview with  your  employers,  and  beg  of  them  to  ex- 
plain to  you,  as  fully  as  possible,  how  they  like  their 
victuals  dressed,  whether  much  or  little  done,  and  of 
what  complexion  they  wish  the  roasts,  of  a  gold 
colour,  or  well  browned,  and  if  they  like  them  frothed  ; 
of  the  soups  and  sauces,  do  they  like  them  thick  or 
thin,  pr  white  or  brown,  clean  or  full  in  the  mouth, 
and  what  flavours  they  fancy,  especially  of  spice  and 
herbs ;  for  it  is  impossible  the  most  accomplished  cook 
can  please  their  palates,  till  she  has  first  learned  tlieir 


ADVICE    TO    COOKS. 

particular  taste* :  always  avoid  over-dressing,  or  over- 

*  "  De  gustibus  non  est  disputandum."  Tastes  are  as  d if-' 
ferent  as  faces,  and  witliout  a  most  attentive  observation  of 
the  directions  given  by  her  employers,  the  most  experienced 
cook  will  never  get  any  credit:  It  will  not  go  far  to  pacify  the 
rage  of  a  ravenous  gourtnand,  who  likei  his  mutton  chop 
broiled  till  its  juice  is  quite  dried  up,  to  be  told  that  some  of 
the  customers  at  Dolly's  chop-house  choose  to  have  thejn  only 
half  done,  and  that  this  is  the  best  way  of  eating  them  :  I  be- 
lieve we  all  think  that  is  the  best  way  which  we  relish  best, 
and  which  agrees  best  with  our  stomachs  :  in  this,  reason  and 
fashion,  all  powerful  as  they  are  on  most  occasions,  yield  to 
the  imperative  caprice  of  the  palate. 

"  The  Irishman   loves    usquebaugh;    the  Scot  loves  ale, 
called  blue  cap ; 

"  The  Welshman  he  loves  toasted  cheese,  and  makes  his 
mouth  like  a  mouse  trap." 

Our  Italian  neighbours  now  eat  many  things  we  think  car« 
rion.  Vide  Ray's  Travels,  page  362  and  406.  While  the 
Englishman  boasts  of  his  beef,  the  Frenchman  dresses  his 
favourite  frog  and  soup,  the  Tartar  feasts  on  horseflesh,  and  the 
Chinaman  on  dogs  ;  and  what  at  one  time,  or  in  one  country, 
is  considered  as  beautiful,  fragrant,  or  savoury,  is  at  another 
time  or  place  regarded  as  deformed  and  disgustful*. 


*  Assafoetida  was  called,  by  the  ancients,  ^'' food  for  the 
Gods*'  The  Persians,  Indians,  and  other  eastern  people,  uow 
cat  it  in  sauces,  and  call  it  expressly  by  that  mime:  while 
the  Germans  call  it  "  Devils*  Dung.^' — See  Pomet  on  Druggy 
4to.  London,  1744, 


ADVICE    TO    COOKS. 

seasoning,  as  it  is  a  fault  that  cannot  be  mended*.  It  will 
save  you  infinite  trouble  and  anxiety  if  you  can  prevail 
on  your  employers  to  use  the  "  sauce-box, "  No.  4G3, 
hereinafter  described  in  the  chapter  of  sauces.  With  the 
help  of  this  *'  delicious  magazine  of  taste  "  every  one  in 
company  may  flavour  their  soup  and  sauce,  and  adjust 
the  vibrations  of  their  palate,    exactly  to   their  own 
fancy  :  if  the  cook  give   a  decided  predominant   and 
piquante  flavour  to  a  dish,  to  tickle  the  tongue  of  two 
or    three  visitors  whose  taste  she  knows,  perhaps  she 
may  thereby  make  the  dinner  disgusting  to  all  the  other 
guests.      Never    undertake   more  work   than   you  are 
quite  certain  you  can  do  to  perfection  ;  and  if  you  are 
ordered  to  prepare  a  larger  dinner  than  you  think  you 
can  send  up  with  ease  and  neatness,  or  dress  any  dish 
you  are  not  acquainted!  with,  rather  than  run  the  risk 
of  spoiling  a  single  dish,  by  which,  perhaps,  you  may 
lose  all  your  credit,  request  your  employers  to  let  you 
have  some  help,  for  it  requires  no  small  care  and  con- 


*  If  your  roasts  and  boils  are  a  little  under-done,  the  stew- 
pan  or  the  gridiron  can  soon  repair  the  mistake  of  the  spit  or 
the  pot. 

t  And  such  is  the  endless  variety  of  culinary  preparations, 
^  it  would  be  as  vain  and  fruidess  a  search  as  that  for  the  philo- 
sopher's stone,  to  expect  to  find  a  cook  who  was  equally  per- 
fect in  all  the  operations  of  the  spit,  the  stevvpan,  and  the 
{olling-pin. 


ADVICE    TO    COOKS. 

trivance  to  have  all  things  done  as  they  sliould  be,  and 
all  hot  together,  and 

"  A  feast  must  be  without  a  fault ; 

And,  if  'tis  not  all  right,  'tis  nauglit." 
But 

''  Good  nature  must  some  failings  overlook, 

Forgive  mischance,  not  errors  of  the  cook ; 

As,  if  no  salt  is  thrown  about  the  dish, 

Or  nicecrisp'd  parsley  scatter'd  on  the  fish; 

Shall  we  in  passion  from  our  dinner  fly, 

And  hopes  of  pardon  to  the  cook  deny. 

For  things  which  Mrs.  Glasse  herself  wight  oversee, 

And  all  mankind  commit  as  well  as  she?" 

Vide  King's  Art  of  Cookery,    . 

Take  care  to  begin  your  business  betimes,  or  it  will 

be  impossible  to  have  your  dinner  ready  at  the  time  it  is 

ordered* :  to  be  half  an  hour  after  the  time,  is  so  frequent 

*  In  a  note  of  invitation  to  dinner,  five  o'clock  seems  to  be 
generally  understood  to  mean  at  six ;  five  precisely,  halfpast  five ; 
and  five  most  precisely,  (so  that  dinner  may  be  on  the  table 
within  ten  minutes  after,)  five  o'clock  exactly,  (allowing  this  for 
the  variation  of  watches.)  If  the  guests  have  any  respect 
for  their  host,  or  prefer  a  zcell-dressed  dinner  to  one  that 
is  spoilt,  instead  of  coming  half  an  hour  after,  they  zcill 
take  care  to  make  their  appearance  before  the  time 
appointed :  the  dinner  that  would  have  been  most  excellent 
at  five,  must  be  uneatable  if  not  sent  to  table  till  halfpast 
five :  the  operations  of  the  cook  are  governed  by  the  clock, 
and  the  moment  the  roasts,  &c.  are  ready,  they  must  go  to 
table,  if  they  are  to  be  eaten  in  perfection.     It  is  the  least 


ADVICE    TO    COOK?. 

a  fault,  that  there  is  the  more  merit  attached  in  being 
ready  at  the  appointed  hour*.  This  is  certainly  some- 
times a  rather  difficult  task  to  perform ;  and  in  the  best 
regulated  families  you  can  only  be  sure  of  your  time 
by  thus  properly  arranging  your  business  f. 

Remember  to  hare  your  kitchen  chimney  swept  once 
a  month ;  many  good  dinners  have  been  spoiled  by 
the  soot  falling. 

punishment  that  a  blundering  ill-bred  Booby  can  receirCj  who 
comes  half  an  hour  after  the  time  he  teas  bidden,  to  find  the 
soup  removed,  and  the  fish  cold. 

*  Those  who  desire  regularity  in  the  service  of  their  table, 
should  have  a  DIAL,  of  not  less  than  twelve  inches  diameter, 
placed  over  the  kitchen  fire-place,  carefully  regulated,  to  keep 
lime  exactly  with  the  clock  in  the  hall  or  dining  parlour ;  with; 
a  frame  on  one  side,  containing  a  taste  table,  or  the  pecu- 
liarities of  the  master's  palate,  and  the  particular  rules  and 
orders  of  his  kitchen;  and  on  the  other  side,  of  the  rewards 
given  to  those  who  attend  to  them,,  and  for  long  service. 

•f  With  all  our  love  of  punctuality,  we  must  not  forget  t?iat 
the  first  consideration  must  still  be,  that  the  dinner  "  be  well 
done  when  'tis  done."  If  any  accident  occurs,  which  is  likely 
to  prevent  your  sending  the  soup,  &c.  to  table  at  the  mo- 
ment it  is  expected,  send  up  a  message  to  your  employers, 
stating  the  circumstance,  and  bespeak  their  patience  for  as 
many  minutes  as  you  think  you  shall  want  to  be  ready. 
This  is  certainly  better  than  either  keeping  the  company 
waiting  without  any  apology,  or  dishing  your  dinner  before  it 
is  done  epough,  and  so  disgusting  the  stomachs  of  the  guests 
at  the  first  appearance  of  it. 


ADVICE    TO    COOKS. 

When  you  have  a  very  large  enterlainoient  to  pre- 
pare, first  attend  to  your  broths  and  gravies  for  your 
soups  and  sauces,  and  by  all  means  get  these  ready 
the  day  before.  The  pastry,  jellies,  c^c.  you  may 
prepare  while  the  broths  are  doing;  then  truss  your 
game  and  poultry,  and  trim  and  shape  your  collops, 
cutlets,  &c.,  and  put  them  in  plates,  and  arrange 
them  upon  the  dresser  in  regular  order:  next  see  that 
your  roasts  and  boils  are  all  nicely  trimmed,  trussed, 
and  singed,  and  quite  ready  for  the  spit  or  the  pof. 
Get  all  your  vegetables  neatly  cut,  pared,  picked,  and 
clean  washed  in  the  cullender:  provide  a  tin  dish  to 
hold  your  fine  herbs ;  onions  and  shallots,  parsley, 
marjoram,  thyme,  tarragon,  chervil,  and  buniet, 
minced  vtry  fine,  and  Lemon-peel  grated,  or  cut  thin, 
and  chopped  very  small,  pepper  and  salt  ready  mixed, 
and  your  spicebox  *  and  salt-seller  always  at  hand,  so 

*  In  one  drawer  under  your  spice-box  keep  ready  ground, 
in  two  ounce  stopper  bottles,  the  several  spices, separate;  and 
also  that  mixture  of  tiiem  we  have  called  "  llagout  Powder;'' 
in  another  keep  your  dried  and  powdered  sweet  savoury  and 
soup-herbs,  &c.,  and  a  set  of  weights  and  scales  :  you  may 
have  a  third  drawer,  containing  your  flavouring  essences,  &c., 
an  invaluable  auxiliary  in  finishing  soups  and  sauces:  (see  the 
account  of  the  "  Magazine  of  Taste,"  or  "  Sauce-Box," 
No.  463,  in  the  chapter  on  sauces :)  have  also  ready  some 
thickening,  made  of  the  best  white  flour  sifted,  mixed  with 
soft  water  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it  is  the  consistence  of 
thick  batter,  a  bottle  of  plain  browning,  and  a  bottle  of 
strained  lemon-juice. 


ADVICE    TO    COOKS. 

lliiit  every  thing  you  want  may  be  ready  for  your  stove- 
work,  and  you  need  not  be  scampering  about  the 
kitchen,  hunting  after  these  trifles,  while  the  dinner  is 
waiting :  nothing  can  be  done  in  perfection,  that  must 
be  done  in  a  hurry  ;  therefore,  if  you  wish  the  dinner 
to  be  sent  up  to  please  your  master  and  mistress,  and 
do  credit  to  yourself,  set  a  high  value  on  your  charac- 
ter for  punctuality:  this  shows  the  establishment  is 
orderly,  is  extremely  gratifying  to  the  master  and  his 
guests,  and  most  praiseworthy  in  the  attendants. 

*'  But,  remember,  you  cannot  obtain  this  desirable  rc- 
"  putation  without  good  management  in  every  respect? 
"  and  if  you  wish  to  ensure  ease  and  comfort  in  the  lat- 
**  ter  part  of  your  life,  you  must  not  be  unwilling  to  pay 
*'  the  price  for  which  only  they  can  be  obtained,  and 
**  earn  them  by  a  diligent  and  faithful  performance  of 
'*  the  duties  of  your  station  in  your  young  days,  which, 
"  if  you  steadily  persevere  in,  you  may  depend  upon 
'*  ultimately  receiving  the  reward  your  services  deserve. 

*'  Quiet  steady  perseverance  is  the  only  sure  spring  to 
"  infallibly  promote  your  progress  on  the  road  to  inde- 
*'  pendence  :  and  if  your  employers  do  not  immediately 
*'  appear  to  be  sensible  of  your  endeavours  to  contribute 
"  your  utmost  to  their  comfort  and  interest,  be  not 
**  easily  discouraged,  persevere  steadily  in  the  right 
"  path;  patiently  and  conscientiously  attend  to  your 
"  duties;  and  those  you  serve  must  soon  discover  the 
"  inestimable  value  of  such  a  faithful  and  intelligent 
**  prime  minister  in  their  kitchen.'^ 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


To  reduce  our  culinary  operatiou^  to  as  exact  a 
certainty  as  the  nature  of  ifie  processes  would  admit 
of,  we  have,  wherever  it  was  needful,  given  the 
quantities  of  each  article. — The  weighls,  avoirdupoise. 
— Tke  measure.  The  h'quid  graduated  measure  of  the 
apothecaries,  as  it  appeared  more  accurate  and  con- 
venient than  any  other,  the  pint  being  divided  into 
sixteen  ounces,  the  ounce  into  eight  drachms  :  a  mid- 
dling size  teaspoon  will  contain  about  a  drachm  ;  four 
such  teaspoons  are  equal  to  a  middling  size,  large,  or 
tablespoon,  or  half  an  ounce ;  four  tablespoons,  to  a 
common-sized  wineglass.  The  specific  gravities  of 
the  various  substances  being  so  extremely  different, 
we  cannot  offer  any  auxiliary  standards*  for  the 
weights,  which  we  earnestly  recommend  the  cook  to 
employ,  if  she  wishes  to  gain  credit  for  accuracy 
and  uniformity  in  her  business :  these  she  will  iind  it 
necessary  to  have  as  small  as  the  quarter  of  a  drachm 
avoirdupoise,  which  is  equal  to  nearly  seven  grains 
troy  weight. 

*  A  large  tablespoonful  of  flour  weighs  about  half  a;i  ounce. 


TABLE    OF    WEIGHTS    AND    MEASURES. 

Glass  measures,  divided  into  tea  and  table  spoons, 
and  containing  from  an  ounce  to  half  a  pint,  nia^  be 
bad  at  Hancock's  Glass  Warehouse,  Charing  Cross; 
and  at  Prick's,  near  Exeter  Change,  Strand;  ^vhere 
may  also  be  had  double-headed  pepper  and  spice 
boxes,  with  caps  o\er  the  gratings.  The  superiority  of 
these,  by  preserving  the  contents  from  the  action  of 
the  air,  must  be  sufficiently  obvious  to  every^  one  :  the 
fine  flavour  of  Cayenne  pepper  is  soon  lost,  from  the 
bottles  it  is  usually  kept  in  not  being  well  stopped. 


CONTENTS. 


BOILING, 

General  Rules. 
Loss  ot"  weight   by   boiling 
andother  modes  of  cook- 
ery. 
Leg  of  Mutton  ....     1 
Neck  of  Mutton       ...     2 
To  Boil  Lamb    ....     3 
To  Boil  Veal     ....     4 
BeefBonillie       ....     5 

<  To  salt  Beef  and  Pork       .     6 
BoiiaRound  ofsaltedBtEF     7 
H-BoneofBeef        ...     8 
Ribs  of  Beef  salted  and  roll- 
ed       9 

To  Boil  a  Calf's  Head       .  10 

*   Pickled  Pork       .     .     .     .11 

Pigs'  Pettitoes     .     .     .     .12 

Bacon         13 

Ham 14 

/  Tongue 15 

Fowls 16 

Rabbits 17 

!  Tripe         18 

ROASTING. 

General  Observations, 
SrloinofBeef     ....   19 

llibsofBeef- 20 

Ribs  of  Beef  boned  and 
rolled ^1 


HO. 
Rump  of  Beef  .  .  r  .  23 
Observations  on  Roasting 

Mutton    • 23 

Deax  Swift's  Receipt. 

A  Leg .24 

A  Chine 25 

A  Saddle 26 

A  Shoulder '27 

A  Loin 28 

A  Neck 29 

A  Breast 30 

A  Haunch  .  .  .  .  .31 
MuttoH,  Venison  fashion  .  32 
Observations  on  Roasting 

Veal 33 

Fillet  of  Veal      .     .     .     .34 

A  Loin 35 

A  Shoulder 8S 

Neck,  best  end    .     .     .     .  37 

Breast        38 

\^eal  Sweetbread  .  .  .39 
Observations   on  Roasting 

Lamb 40 

Hind  Quarter  .  .  .  .41 
Fore  Quarter        .     .     .     .41 

Leg 43 

Shoulder 44 

Ribs      .......  45 

Loin 46 

Neck  ...     ...     .     .47 

Broa^t        .     .  '  ,     ,     .     .48 


CONTENTS. 


KO. 


Observations  on  Roasting 

Pork 49 

A  Leg .50 

Leg  of  Pork  roasted  with- 
out the  Skin,  or  Mock 

Goose 51 

The  Griskin 52 

Bacon,  Sparerib        .     .     .53 

Loin 54 

A  Chine 55 

Roast  Pig       56 

Turkey 57 

Capons  or  Fowls       .     .     .58 

Goose 59 

Green  Goose       ....  60 

Duck .  61 

Observations    on   dressing 

Game 62 

Recipe  for  Sauce  to  Wild 

Fowls. 
Haunch  of  Venison       .     .  63 
Neck  and  Shoulder  of  Ve- 
nison       64 

Fawn 65 

Hare ,     ,  66 

Rabbit  . 67 

Pheasant 68 

Mock  Pheasant  ....  69 

Partridges 70 

Black  Cock 71 

Moor  Game 72 

Grouse 73 

Wild  Ducks 74 

Widgeons  and  Teal       .     .75 

AVoodcock 76 

Snipes         ......  77 

Roast  Pigeons     ....  78 

Pigeons  on  a  poor  man's 

spit        79 

Larks,  and  other  small  birds  80 

Wlieat  Ears 81 

Lobster 83 


FRYING. 


General  Observations, 
To  clarify  Drippings  .     .83 

To  melt  Suet     ....  84 

Rump  Steaks     ....  85  -^ 

Beef  Steaks  and  Onions  8G 

Sausages 87 

Sweetbreads  full  dressed  88  - 

Sweetbreads  plain       .     .  89 

Veal  Cutlets      ....  90 

Veal  Cutlets  full  dressed  91- 

Lamb,  or  Mutton  Chops  92 

Pork  Chops       ....  93 

BROILING. 

General  Observations. 

Beefsteaks       ....  94 

Kidneys  .....  95 
The  Inside  of  a  Sirloin  of 

Beef 96 

Fowl  or  Chicken    ...  97 

Pigeons 98 

VEGETABLES. 

General  Obser-Dations. 
Potatoes        .     .     .     .     .  102 
Potatoes  boiled  and  broil- 
ed   .    • 103- 

Potatoes  fried  in  slices  .  104 
Potatoes  fried  whole  .  .  105 
Potatoes  mashed  .  .  .  106 
Potatoes     mashed     with 

Onions 107 

Escalloped  Potatoes  .  .  108 
Roast  Potatoes  .  .  .  109 
RoastPotatoesunderMeat  1 10 
Potatoe  Balls  .  .  .  .111 
Savoury  Potatoe  Balls  .112 
Casserole  of  Potatoes  .  113 
Potatoe  Snow    .    .     .    .114 


CONTENTS. 


NO. 

115 
116 
117 
118 
119 
120 


Watery  Potatoes    . 
New  Potatoes  .     . 
Jerusalem  Artichokes 
Cabbage        .     .     . 
Boiled  Cabbage  fried 
Savoys     .     .     «     . 

Sprouts 121 

Spinach 122 

Asparagus 123 

Sea  Kail 124 

Cauliflower  .     •     :     .     .125 
Brocoli     .     .     .     .     .     .  126 

Red  Beet  Roots     ...  127 

Parsnips l28 

Carrots 129 

Turnips 130 

Mashed  Turnips  .  .  .131 
Turnip-tops  .  .  .  .132 
French  Beans  .  ,  .  .133 
Green  Peas  ....  134 
-  Cucumber  Stewed       .     .  135 

Artichokes 136 

Stew  Onions      ....  137 
Roast  Onions    .     .     .     .  133 

FISH. 

General  Observations. 

To  Boil  Turbot      .     .     .140 

Dutch  method  of  Boiling 


Turbot 
To  Fry  Turbot 
To  dress  Brill    .     . 
To  Boil  Soles    .     . 
To  Fry  Soles      .     . 
To  Stew  Soles  . 
Fillets  of  Soles  Fried 
Fillets  of  Soles,  White 
Cod  Boiled  .     .     . 
Salt  Fish  Boiled     . 
Slices  of  Cod  Boiled 
Codlings  Broiled    . 
Whitings  Fried 


141 
142 
143 
144 
145 
146 
147 
148 
149 
150 
151 
152 
153 


.  KO. 

Skate  Fried 154 

Plaice  or  Flounders  Fried  155 
Watar  Souchy  ....  156 
Haddocks  Boiled  .  .  .  157 
Carp  Stewed  ....  158 
Perch  Fried  .     ,     .159 

Perch  Boiled  ....  160 
Salmon  Pickled  .  .  .161 
Salmon  Boiled  ....  162 
Salmon  Broiled  .  .  .163 
Eels  Stewed,  Wiggy's  way  164 

Eels  Fried 165 

Eels  Spitchcocked       .     .   166 
Mackarel  Boiled     .     .     .167 
Mackarel  Soused  .     .     .  168 
Mackarel  Broiled  .     .     .169 
Mackarel  Baked     .     .     .  170 
Mackarel  Pickled       .     .171 
Sprats  Broiled       .     .     .  ^170 
Herrings  Broiled        .     .  ^171 
IlBrrings  Soused     .     .     .  172 
Smelts  Fried      .     .     .     .  173 

Shriraps'Pickledjthe  Ame- 
rican way       ....   174 

Shrimps  Potted       .     .     .173 
Lobster  Boiled       ,     .     .  176 
Crab    .     ...     .     .     .177 

Lobster  Potted       .     .     .  178 
Lobster  Cake     ....  179 

Lobster  Pudding    .     .     .180 

Oysters 181 

Oysters  Scolloped        .     .  182 
Oysters  Stewed  .   .     ".     .^182 
Mr.  Wm.  Tucker's  Ob- 
servations on  Fish. 

BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND 
SOUPS. 

General  Observations. 

Beef  Broth 185 

Beef  Gravy 186 

BeefBroth,  for  Glaze.     .  187 


CONTENTS. 


NO. 

Strtmg  Beef  Gravy      ,     .188 

BeefCullis 189 

Family  Soup  .  .  .  .  1 00 
Veal  Broth  ,  .  .  .  :  191 
Veal  Gravy  ....  192 
Knuckle  of  Veal  Soup  .  193 
Mutton  Broth  ....  194 
Mock  Mutton  Broth  .  .  195 
Queen's  morning  Broth  .  196 
Hodge  Podge  .  .  .  .197 
Ox-heelJelly  ....  198 
Jelly  Broth  of  fragments  199 
Clear  Gravy  Soup  .  .  200 
Shin  of  Beef  Soup  .  .  .201 
Harrico  Mutton  Soup  .  202 
Mutton  Broth  with  Cut- 
lets        203 

Scotch  BaHey  Broth  .  ,  204 
Scotch  Leek  Soup       .     .  205 

Rice  Soup 206 

Potatoe  Soup    ....  207 

Turnip  Soup      .     .     .     ,  208 
Turnip  Soup      ....  209 

Turnip  Soup,  the  French 
way      ......  210 

Carrot  and  Turnip  Soup  211 
Carrot  Soup       .     .     .     .212 

Parsnip  Sonp     .     .     .     .  213 

Celery  Soup      .     .     .     .214 

White  Harrico  Bean  Soup  215 
Green  Pease  Soup  .  .216 
Green  Pease  Soup  without 

Meat 217 

Pease  Soup 218 

Pease  Soup  without  Meat  219 
Pease  Soup  witli  Pickled 
Pork     .     .     .     .     .     .  220 

Plain  Pease  Soup  .  ,  .221 
Asparagus  Soup  .  .  .  222 
Water  Soup  .  .  ,  .223 
Maigre  Gravy  Soup    ,     .  224 


Fish  Soup 225 

Onion  Soup  Maigre  .  .  226 
Brown  Soup  Maigre  .  .  227;. 
Soup^IIerbSoupin  twenty 

minutes 228 

Soon  made  Savoury  Soup  229 
Dripping  Soup  ....  230 
Vermicelli  Soup  .  .  .  231 
Vermicelli  Soup,  White  .  232 
Maccaroni  Soup  .  .  .  233 
Maccaroni  Soup,  tlue  new 

way      .     ....     .  234 

Cray  Fish  Soup       ,     .     .  235- 
Prawn,  or  Shrimp  Soup  .  236 
Lobster  Soup     ....  237 

Soup  and  Bouilli    .     .     .238 
OxCheeTcSoup      .     .     .239 
Ox  Tail  Soup     .     ,     .     .240 
Haxe  Soup    .     .     .     .     .241 

-Partridge  Soup       .     .     .  242 
Soup  Without  Water  .     .  243 
GibletSoup       ....  244 

Mock  Mociv  Turtle     .     .  245 
Mock  Turtle   '  .     .     .     .246 

Mock  Turtle     .     .     :     .247 
English  Turtle  Soup    .     .  248 
Malaga  Tawny  Soup  .     .  249 
Turtle  Soup       ....  250^ 

Turtle  Fins. 

Mock  turtle  Soup      .     .251 

Portable  Soup   ....  252 

To  Qarify  Broth,  &c.    .  *252 

SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

General  Ohxerrutions. 
Observations   on    Melted 
Butter       .....  254 

Zest 255 

Melted  Butter   ....  256 

Thickening 257 

Savoury  Thickening    ,     ,  253 


CONTENTS. 


NO. 

259 
260 
24)1 

262 
263 
264 


Clarified  Butter     .     .     . 
Bnrnt  Butter     .... 

Pai'sley  and  Butter      .     . 
Mock  P9,rsley  Sauce  .     . 
Gooseberry  Sauce      .     . 
Chervil  and  Butter     .     . 
Fennel    and    Butter,    for 

Mackarel,  &c.    .     .     ,265 
Mackarel  Hoe  Sauce  .     .  266 
Egg  Sauce     .     .     .     .    " .  267 

Pudding  Sauce  ...     .  268 

Plumb  Pudding  Sauce     .  269 
Anchovy  Sauce      .     .     .  270 
Anchovy  Sauce,  for  Roast 

Meat   .     .     ;  ,.    '.     .271 
Garlick  Sauce  .  , .  ■/.   , ,  272 
Lemon  Sauce    .     .     .   ',  273 
Caper  Sauce      .     .     .     .  274 

Mock  Caper  Sauce     .     .  275 
Dutch    ^our    Sauce,  tot 
Fish    .     .     .     .     .    ;    27€ 

Cream  Sauce,  for  Tish     .  277 
Oyster  Sauce     ....  273 

Pickled  Oyster  Sauce       .  279 
Bottled  Oyster. Sauce       .  280 
Cockle  Sauce     .     .     .     .281 

Muscle  Sauce    ....  282 

Shrimp  Sauce    ....  283 

Lobster  Sauce  ....  284 

Sauce  for  Lobster,  &c.    .  285 
Crab  Sauce        ....  286 

Liver  and  Parsley  Sauce     287 
I^emon  and  Liver  Sauce  288 
Celery  Sauce,  \yhite  .     .  289 
(?elery  Sauce,  Brown       .  290 
Sorrel  Sauce       .    .     .     .291 

Tomata,   or  Love  Apple 
Sauce  .     .     .     .     .     .292 

Mock  Tomata  Sauce        .  293 
Shallot  Sauce    ....  29i 

Shallot  Sauce,  for  Boiled 
Mutton     .     ,     .     .     .  295 


NO. 

Young  Onion  Sauce  .  .  296^ 
Onion  Sauce  .  .  ,  .  29r 
Onion  Sauce  ....  298 
Fried.  Onion  Sauce  .  .  299 
Sage  and  Onion  Sauce  .  300 
Portugal.  Ouiott  Sauce  ,  301 
Carrier  Sauce  .  ,  .  .  302 
Mint  Sauce  ....  303  - 
Apple  Sauce  ....  304 
Mushroom  Sauce  .  .  .  305- 
Mushioom  Sauce,  Brown  306 
Italiau  Sauce  with  Mush- 
rooms         307 

Italian  Ramolade   .     .     .  303  - 
Italian  Ramolade,  hot     .  309 
Poor  Man's.  Sauce      .     .310 
Garlick  Gravy  .     .     .     .311 
Mr.  Micbl. Kelly's  Sauce 
for  Boiled  Calf  s  Head, 
orCowheel. 
Mr.  Kelly's  Sauce  Pi- 

quante 
Ravigotte  Sauce  .  .  .312 
Burnet  Sauce  .  .  .  .313 
Tarragon  Sauce  .  .  .311. 
Herb  .Sauce.  Piquante  .  315 
Truffle  Sauce  .  .  .  .316 
Fried  Parsley  .  .  ,  .317 
Crisp. Parsley  ....  S13 
Fried. Bread  Sippets  .  .319 
Fried. Bread  Crumbs  .  .  320 
Bread  Sauce  .  .  .  .321 
Plain  Browning      .     ,     .322 

Greening 3^3 

Red     .......  324 

Yellow     .     .     .     .     .     .  325 

Gravy,  for  Roast  Meat  .  326 
Gravy,  for  Boiled  Ment  .327 
Wow    Wow    Sauce,   for 


BouilliBeef  . 
To  make  Gravy, 
Beef  Gravy  Sauce 


128 


329 


CONTEJ^TS. 


330 
331 
332 
333 

334 
335 

336 


338 
339 
340 

341 


Ragout  Sauce,  or  strong 
Beef  Gravy  with  Mush- 
rooms       .     .     ,     .     . 

Onion  Gravy      .... 

Maigre  Gravy   .... 

Fish  Gravy     ..... 

Gravy  Sauce  for  Poultry, 
without  Meat     .     .     . 

Mock  Gravy  Sauce     .     . 

Soup-Herb,and  soon  made. 
Savoury  Sauce    .     .     . 

Gravy  Sauce,  for  Game  .  337 

Orange  Gravy  Sauce,  for 
Wild  Ducks        .... 

Woodcock  Sauce  .     .     . 

Snipe  Sauce       .     .    i 

Bonne  Bouche,  for  Goose 
or  Duck    .■   .     »     ^    . 

Savoui7  Sauce,  for  Roast 
Pork  or  Geese,  &c.      .  342 

Turtle  Sauce     ,     .     .     .  343 

Wine  Sauce,  for  Venison  344 

VinegarSauce,  for  Venison  345 

Sweet  Sauce,  for  Venison  346 

MuttonGravy,  for  Venison  347 

Curry  Sauce      ....  348 

§oup-Herb  and  Savoury 
Powder,  or  Double  Re- 
lish Sauce      .... 

Ham  Sauce,  for  Poultry  . 

Essence  of  Ham     .     .     . 

Ham  Sauce        .... 

Minced  JEIam  Sauce,  for 
Eggs  or  Pease  . .     .     . 

Sauce  for  Veal.  Cutlets    . 

Grill  Sauce .     .....     . 

Sauce  for  Rump  Steaks 
or  Mutton  Chops    .     . 

Savouiy  Jelly  for  Cold 
Meat,.&e.      .... 

Russian  Sauce,  for  Cold 
Meat 358 


349 
350 
351 
352 

353 
354 
355 

356 

357 


Sauce  for  Cold  Meat, 
Poultry,  &c. 

Sauce  for  Hashes  of  Mut- 
ton or  Beef    .     .     .     ; 

Sauce  for  Hashed  or 
Minced  Veal      .     .     . 

W  hite  Gravy  Sauce    .     . 

To  make  Marinade     .     . 

Bechamel  Sauce     .     .     . 

Poivrade  Sauce       .     .     . 

Poivrad©  Sauce,  cold 

Sauce  Tournee       .     .     . 

Sauce  Veloute   .... 

Mustard  in  a  Minute 

Mustardj  to  make       .     , 

Salt     .     .  ■ 

Salad  Sauce      .... 

Forcemeat  Stuffings     .     . 

Veal  Stuffing     .... 

Veal  Forcemeat     .     .     . 

Stuffing  for  Roast  Turkey, 
or  Capon,  or  Fowl  .     . 

Stuffing  for  Boiled  Turkey 

Goose  or  Duck  Stuffing    . 

Stuffing  for  Hare    .     .     . 

Forcemeat  BallsforTurtle, 
Mock  Turtle,  or  Made 
Dishes     • .     .     .     .     . 

Egg  Balls     ..... 

Ciiny  Balls       .... 

Soup-Herb  Powder  Balls 

Savoury  Powder  Balls     . 

Soup-Herb  and  Savoury 
Powder  Balls     .     .     • 

Zest  Balls 

Orange  or  Lemon-Peel,  to 
mix  with  Stuffing     .     . 

Mock  Cream     .... 

Raspbeiry  Vinegar      .     . 

Raspberry  Vinegar,  ano- 
ther way 

Syrup  of  Lemons    .     .     . 


.  359 

-.  360 
r 

.361  '' 

.  362  ; 
.  363 -i 

.  364  ; 

.  365  j 

.  366  \ 

.  367  ■ 

.  368  : 

.  369  ! 
.  370  '• 

.  371  : 

.  372  \ 
.  373-1 
.  374* ' 

.  3T5  ; 


1 


376 
377 
878  i 

37?  \ 


881 

382  ) 

S8S  ; 

384  ■ 

385  ' 

386 


887  i 
388  i 
389 -j 


390 
39 1 


CONTENTS, 


OrangeSyrup/orPuddings  392 

—  Svrup  ot  Orange -or  Lemon 

'Peel     ......  393 

Syrup  of  Nutmegs       .     .  394 

-  Syrup  of  Vinegar  .  .  .  395 
Tan-agon  Vinegar  .  .  .  396 
Basil  Vinegar  .  .  .  .397 
Mint  Vinegar  .  .  .  .398 
Essence  of  Vinegar  .  .  399 
Garlick  Vinegar  .  .  .  400 
Eshallot  Vinegar  .  .  .401 
Eshallot  Wine  ....  402 
Camp  Vinegar  ....  403' 
Brochard  Sauce,  for  Cold 

Meat 404 

Essence  of  Cayenne    .     .  405 
Prepared  Lemon  Juice    .  406 
Essence  of  Lemon-Peel  .  407 
Quint-Essence  of  Lemon- 
Peel     408 

Spirit  of  Celery  .  .  .  409 
Preserved  Juice  of  Fruits 

without  Sugar  .  .  .  410 
Essence  of  Ginger  .  .411 
Essence  of  Allspice  .  .412 
Tincture  of  Allspice  .  .413 
Essence  of  Clove  andMace  414 
Tincture  of  Clove  .  .415 
Essence  of  Cinnamon  .  416 
Essence  of  Marjoranfl  .  417 
Almn  Finings,  for  clarify- 
ingSpirituousandOieose 
Cordials,    Compounds, 

&c 418 

Spirit  of  Sweet -Herbs,  for 

Broths,  &c 419 

Soup-Herb  Spirit  .  .  .  420 
Spirit  of  Savoury  Spice  .421 
Soup-Herb,  and  Savouiy 

Spice  Spirit    .     .     .     .422 
Relish  for  Chops,  &c.      .  423 
Original  Receipt  for  Quin's 
Sauce        424 


IfO. 

Fish  Sauce    .....  425 

Fish  Sajce 426 

Keeping  Mustard    .     .     .  427 

Sour  Crout 428 

Sauce  Superlative        .     .  429 
Mock  Anchovies    .     .     .  430 
Essence  of  Mock  Ancho- 
vies       431 

Mock  Essence  of  Ancho- 
vies       ,  435i 

Essence  of  Anchovy  .  .  433 
Anchovy  Paste  .  .  .  434 
Anchovy  Powder   ,     .     .  435 

Soy      . 436 

Essence  of  Walnuts  .  .  43r 
Walnut  Catsup  .  .  .  438 
Mushroom  Catsup  ,  .  439 
Mushrooms  Preserved  .  440 
Oyster  Catsup  ....  441 
Cockle  and  MuscleCatsup  442 
Tomata  Catsup  .  .  .  443 
White  Catsup  ....  444 
Cucumber  Catsup  .  .  445 
Pudding  Catsup  .  .  .  446 
Potatoe  Mucilage  .  ,  448 
Mrs.  Raffald's  Browning  449 
Mrs.     Raffald's     Lemon 

Pickle  .....  45(> 
Hash  Sauce  .  ,  .  .451 
PiquanteVinegar,orSauce 
for  Salads  or  Cold 
Meat  .....  452 
Salad  Mixture  ....  453 
Curry  Powder  ....  454? 
Cheap  Curry  Powder  .  455 
Italian  Tamara  .  .  .  456 
Savoury  Ragout  Powder  457 

Pea  Powder 458 

Soup-Herb    Powder,     or 

Vegetable  Relish     .     .459 
Soup-Herb    and   Savoury 
Powder,    or    Quintes- 
sence of  Ragout      .     .  460 


Ifr    til 


/  !■■ 


cr. 


TJUIJB  0X3 

Tlie Lontion  ni/fdc  of'cuttint/  up  this  AmmaL.wklh 
tiic  ruimn  aiid  t'data't'  value  ofeacfh  Joint. 

Uif  prici\f  an'  fiJi'rd  fJan.l.Wl?,)  by  an  einirwnt 
Butchtr  who  sMi'  an  twtijiih'  of  tw6't  -/-ate  (fujjiily; 
ajuf  thvw^h  dw  pritY  ^'hvu/ti  vaiy,  thr  relative 
vahtc  will  hi'  luehihitc/l. 


THEHTND  QJTABTEROFREEF. 

p«»r  lb 
1     SwLohl    O.V» 


2     Ih 


rqj. 


0.9 


?t 

Etiift'  Bone 

0. 

.6 

A 

BidtoJ.'  

0 

.7 

5 

Aioiur  D" 

0 

.  (5 

G 

Veiny  Fuux' 

0 

.7 

7 

Thick  Flank 

0 

.  t» 

6 

rtiui  D^ 

0 

.&\ 

t) 

Laj 

0 

■  z\ 

THE  FOBE  QrARTER . 

^  per  lb 

JO     Fore  Rib.   e  Ribs 0.9 

11  Middir  Dl  3  Df       .  .  0.7 

12  Chuck  I)?  .?  Df  O  .  5 
1:?    Sfund^lcr.  ^^^£fi^   0.6 

14  BvUhct  ^0.6 

15  Clod 0.4^ 

16  Neck,  or  StLdcuixf  Piece    O  .  3  i 

17  ShiiL  o  .'L\ 
1ft    ChceJc 


[tefercmrr  tv  the  rcfpa^tive  ^Joints'  ft'  Veal . 


1 

Loin,  heM  cnR 

pet 
0 

'    ID 
.    11 

D", .     chiinw  en  J 
FiJict 

0 

1 

.   11 

4 

KtiuA'L',  Uind 

i» 

.     - 

'Da  whole  Icff 

(>  . 

i»> 

h 

Neck.  htH  end 

«> 

.  il 

ti 

1)1      .scruif  end 
The  v^hvlf  Na-k 

(1 

.    'A 

7 

Blade  Bene 

«> 

AO 

a 

2ifejjj,-1,  he.ft  etid 

0 

.  Jl 

9 

1)^.          hfi.vkci  cjid 

0  , 

10 

lo 

Knuckle ,  F"f'i^   

_       () 

.  7 

nic  Head 

k 


-^^-^ 


jR£^'ereiii:i\s  to  tJii  re^'pictivi!  Joints  ot  Mutton 

r  per  1V» 

2  Zr'Wv  Acv/  end V  O  .  6 

3  iJf .  -  ctuunp  end ^ 

4  NexJc,  bc>t  cjui -      O  .  7 

5  U.''       scrcu^  end  ^         O  .  5 

6  Shvulder o  .7 

7  Breast  .  «»  .  '* 
Hatd  . 

Tlx£  CJiuijc,  rue  L<<irui. 
The  Saddle.  Uvo  K*uks. \ 
The  HauriA'h  ,  t'a-  u  LtUf.    < 


TMJE   PliD. 
Referennki^'  p  the  rt'^^tu^tivt'  JitinU  of  Porl^ 


] 

Hind  Loiiv                                   o 

(♦ 

2 

Fore  2:n\  .                                     o 

.  0 

3 

^^^                                                  <> 

.lo 

4 

Spruuf                                            <> 

<; 

b 

/a«x- 

77?*'  (huie  uftJii  hici^  hi'iu-  oji  ■. 
iiir  a,f  the  fore  Ivith  c^tcful^.  ' 

.  lo 

7V;>*  ,y'rf/*«'  /Pi'/s  /4-  aU  Hlc  liihjf  j 

z/WtT-  /V/c  Shoulder.  / 

.   0 

k 


THE 

COOK'S   ORACLE. 


BOILING. 

GENERAL    RULES. 


This  most  simple  of  culinary  processes  is  not 
often  performed  in  perfection.  Boiling  requires 
less  nicety  and  attendance  than  roasting ;  and  to 
skim  your  pot  ^vell,  and  keep  it  really  boiling  (the 
slower  the  better)  all  the  while,  and  to  know  how 
long  is  required  for  doing  the  joint,  &c,  com- 
prehends almost  the  whole  art  and  mystery.  This? 
however,  requires  a  patient  and  perpetual  vigi- 
lance, of  which  few  persons  are  capable.  —  The 
cook  must  take  care  that  the  water  really  boils  all 
the  while  she  is  cooking,  or  she  will  be  deceived 
in  the  time ;  and  she  should  make  up  a  sufEcient 
iire  at  first,  to  last  all  the  time,  without  much 
mending  or  stirring.     As  it  is  coming  to  a  boil. 


BOILING. 

there  will  always,  from  the  cleanest  meat  and 
clearest  water,  rise  a  scum  to  the  top  of  the  pot : 
this  proceeds  partly  from  the  foulness  of  the  meat, 
and  partly  from  the  water,  and  must  be  carefully 
taken  off  as  soon  as  it  rises  :  if  you  neglect  this, 
and  suffer  it  to  boil,  the  scum  will  fall,  and  stick 
to  the  meat.  On  this  depends  the  appearance 
of  all  boiled  things.  When  you  have  scummed 
well,  throw  in  some  cold  water  and  a  little  salt, 
which  will  throw  up  the  rest  of  the  scum.  The 
oftener  it  is  scummed,  and  the  cleaner  the  top 
of  the  water  is  kept,  the  cleaner  will  be  the  meat. 
If  let  alone,  it  soon  boils  down,  and  sticks  to 
the  meat*;  which,  instead  of  looking  delicately 
white  and  nice,  will  have  that  coarse  and  filthy 
appearance  we  have  too  often  to  complain  of, 
and  the  butcher  and  poulterer  get  blamed  for 
the  carelessness  of  the  cook  in  not  scumming  her 
pot.  Many  put  in  milk,  to  make  what  they  boil 
look  white  ;  but  this  does  more  harm  than  good  : 
others  wrap  it  up  in  a  cloth  ;  but  this  is  needless, 
and  better  let  alone ;  if  the  scum  be  attentively 
removed,  it  will  have  a  colour  and  flavour  that 


*  If,  unfortuntitely,  this  should  happen,  the  cook  must 
carefully  take  it  off  when  she  dishes  up,  either  with  a  clean 
sponge  or  a  paste-brush. 


BOILING. 

it  never  has  when  muffled  up.  It  is  the  best 
way  to  take  out  all  the  dirt,  not  to  defend  the 
meat  against  it. 

Put  jour  meat  into  plenty  of  cold*  water,  not 
less  than  a  quart  to  a  pound,  so  that  it  may  get 
gradually  warm  through  before  the  outside  gets 
hard  :  begin  to  reckon  the  time  from  its  first 
coming  to  a  boil.  The  old  rule  of  15  minutes 
to  a  pound  of  meat  we  think  rather  too  little; 
for  the  slower  it  boils,  the  tenderer,  plumper, 
and  whiter  it  will  be.  From  20  to  30  minutes 
to  a  pound  will  not  be  found  too  much  for  gentle 
boiling  by  the  side  of  the  fire  ;  allowing  more 
or  less  time,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the 
joints ;  always  remembering,  the  slower  it  boils 
the  better. 

Meat  will  take, rather  longer  time  boiling  in 
cold  than  it  wants  in  warm  weather;  and,  if 
frozen,  must  be  thawed  before  boiling  as  before 
roasting,  by  laying  some  time  in  cold  water  :  or, 
two  or  three  hours  before  you  dress  it,  bringing 
it  into  a  place  the  temperature  of  which  is  not  less 
than  fifty  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's  thermometer. 

*  Cooks,  however,  as  well  as  doctors,  disagree ;  for  some 
say,  that  "  all  sorts  of  fresh  meat  should  be  put  in  when  the 
water  boils."  I  prefer  the  above  method,  for  the  reason 
given. 

B  2 


BOILING. 


Leg  of  Mutton,    (No.  1.) 

Cut  off  the  shank  bone  and  trim  the  knuckle  of 
a  leg  of  mutton,  and  put  it  into  lukewarm  water  for 
an  hour;  wash  it  clean,  put  it  on  in  plenty  of 
cold  water;  let  it  boil  gently;  and  skim  it  carefully. 
A  leg  of  nine  pounds  will  take  three  hours  boiling. 

Nech  of  Mutton,    (No.  2.) 

Put  four  or  five  pounds  of  the  best  end  of  the 
neck  into  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  water,  and  let  it 
simmer  slowly  for  two  hours;  it  will  eat  most 
deliciously  tender:  it  will  look  most  delicate  if 
you  do  not  take  off  the  skin  till  it  has  been  boiled. 
Caper  sauce  and  turnips,  or  spinage,  are  expected 
to  accompany  boiled  mutton. 

To  Boil  Lamb,    (No.  3.) 

Lamb  will  take  quite  as  much  time  in  boiling  as 
mutton,  and  is  managed  in  the  same  way.  After 
the  observations  on  boiling,  which  commence  this 
chapter  of  our  work,  we  have  nothing  to  add. 

To  Boil  Veal,    (No.  4.) 
As  this  is  always  expected  to  come  to  table  look- 


BOILING. 

ing  very  delicately  clean,  &c.,  you  must  be  care- 
ful to  have  clean  water  and  a  clean  vessel,  and 
constantly  catch  the  scum,  and  attend  to  the 
directions  before  given  in  the  preliminary  observa- 
tions. Send  up  bacon  and  greens,  and  parsley 
and  butter,  with  it. 

Beef  BGuiilie,  (No.  5.) 

In  plain  English,  is  understood  to  mean  boiled 
beef;  but  its  culinary  acceptation,  is  fresh  beef 
dressed  without  boiling,  but  kept  gently  simmer- 
ing over  a  slow  fire.  English  cooks  seem  to  have 
no  notion  that  good  soup  can  be  made  without 
destroying  a  great  deal  of  meat :  however,  by  a 
judicious  regulation  of  the  fire,  and  a  vigilant 
attendance  on  the  soup  kettle,  this  may  be  accom- 
plished without  much  difficulty,  and  you  shall 
have  a  tureen  of  such  soup  as  the  finest  palate  will 
be  pleased  with,  and  the  meat  make  its  appearance 
at  table  possessing  its  full  portion  of  nutritious 
succulence.  This  requires  nothing  more  than  to 
boil  or  rather  stew  the  meat  slowly,  instead  of 
fast,  and  to  take  it  up  when  it  is  done  enough. 
Meat  cooked  in  this  manner  affords  more  than 
double  the  nourishment  it  does  dressed  in  the 
common  way,  is  easy  of  digestion  in  proportion 
as  it  is  tender,  and  an  invigorating  diet,  especial- 
ly valuable  to  the  poor,  whose  laborious  employ- 
ments require  support,  which  if  they  could  derive 
from  good  eating  being  put  within  their  reach, 
they  would -often  go  to  the  butcher's  shop,  when 
they  now  run  to  the  public  house.  Our  neigh- 
bours the  French  are  so  justly  famous  for  their 
skill  in  the  affairs  of  the  kitchen,  that,  as  the  adage 
b4: 


BOJLING. 

says,  *'  as  many  Frenchmen  so  many  cooks;" 
.surroLinded  as  they  are  by  a  prolusion  of  the 
most  delicious  wines  and  most  seduciJig  liqueurs, 
offering  every  temptatioii  and  facility  to  render 
drunkenness  delightful,  a  tippling  Frenchman  is  a 
*'  rara  avis  :"  they  know  how  so  easily  and  com- 
pletely to  keep  Ufe  in  repair  by  good  eating, 
they  require  little  or  no  adjustment  from  drinking. 
Tliis  accounts  for  that  "  toujours  gai,"  and  happy 
equilibrium  of  spirits  which  they  enjoy  with  more 
regularity  than  any  people  :  the  elasticity  of  their 
stomachs,  unimpaired  by  spirituous  liquors,  em- 
brace and  digest  vigorously  the  food  they  saga- 
ciously  prepare  for  it,  wliich  they  render  easily 
assimilable  by  cooking  it  sulficiently,  wisely  con- 
trivin<r  to  o^et  half  the  work  of  the  stomach  done 
by  tire  and  water. 

See  Receipt  for  Soup  and  Bouillie,  No.  23%. 

To  salt  Beef  and  Pork.    (No.  6.) 

Before  you  salt  meat,  remember  to  take  out  the 
kernels  :  there  is  always  one  in  the  udder  of  a 
round  of  beef,  and  one  in  tlie  fat  in  the  middle  of 
the  round,  and  several  about  the  thick  end  of  the 
ilank,  and  another  in  the  mouse  buttock  ;  and  if 
they  are  not  taken  out,  all  the  salt  in  the  world 
will  not  keep  the  meat. 

The  great  art  of  salting  meat  is  to  rub  in  the 
salt  thoroughly  and  evenly  into  every  part,  and  to 
fill  all  the  holes  full  of  salt  where  the  kernels 
■were  taken  out,  and  where  the  butcher's  skewers 
were  :  a  round  of  beef  of  40  pounds  will  take  a 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  salt  to  be  rubbed  in  all  at 
first,  and  turn  it  and  rub  it  every  day  with  the 


BOlLrXG.- 

brine:  it  will  be  ready  for  dressing"  in  eiiilil  or  fen 
days,  if  you  do  not  wish  it  very  salt.  In  summer, 
salt  your  meat  as  soon  as  ii  comes  in,  and  take 
care  to  defend  it  from  the  flies.  In  winter,  it  w  ill 
eat  the  shorter  and  tenderer  if  kept  three  or  four 
days  before  it  is  salted  ;  and  in  frosty  weather 
v;arm  the  salt  in  a  frj-in^^  pan,  and  rub  it  on  the 
meat  while  it  is  hot.  if  you  wish  it  to  look  red, 
rub  it  with  saltpetre  and  bay  salt,  in  the  propor- 
tion of  two  ounces  of  each  of  these  to  half  a  pound 
of  common  salt. 

An  H-bone  will  require  about  half  a  pound  of 
salt  to  be  well  rubbed  into  it,  and  avIU  be  ready  in- 
four  or  five  days,  if  turned  and  rubbed  every  day. 

Pork  requires  a  longer  time  to  cure  it  (in  pro- 
portion to  its  weight)  than  beef,  and  a  leg  of  pork 
should  be  in  salt  eight  or  ten  days. 

Salted  meat  should  always  be  well  washed 
before  it  is  boiled,  especially  if  it  has  been  in  salt 
long,  that  the  liquor  the  meat  is  boiled  in,  may 
not  be  too  salt  to  make  soup  of.  If  your  meat  has 
been  in  salt  a  long  time,  and  you  think  it  will  be 
too  salt,  lay  it  in  water  the  night  before  yoa 
intend  to  dress  it. 


To  Boil  a  Round  of  salted  Beef.    (No,  7.) 

This  is  generally  too  large  for  a  moderate  family, 
so  we  shall  write  directions  for  the  dressing  half  a> 
round. 

Skewer  it  up  as  tight  and  as  round  as  possible, 
andlie  a  fillet  of  broad  tape  round  it,  to  k^ep  the 
skevvers  in  their  places.  Put  it  into  plenty  of  cold 
water,  and  carefully  catch  the  scum  as  it  rises; 
let  it  boil  till  all  the  scum  is  removed,  and  thrc- 
B  5 


BOILING. 

put  the  boiler  on  one  side  of  the  fire  to  keep 
simmering  till  it  is  done.  Half  a  round  of  SOlbs. 
will  take  near  three  hours  ;  if  it  weighs  more, 
give  it  more  time.  When  you  take  it  up,  wash 
it  well  with  a  paste  brush,  and  garnish  the  dish 
with  carrots  :  send  up  carrots,  turnips,  and  pars- 
nips, or  greens,  on  separate  dishes.  Pease  pud- 
ding is  very  good  with  it. 

H-Boue  of  Beef  (No.  8.) 

Is  to  be  managed  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  the  round,  but  will  be  sooner  boiled,  as  it  is  not  so 
«olid  :  an  H-bone  of  SOlbs.  will  be  enough  in  about 
two  hours  and  a  half,  and  H-bones  of  lOlbs.  in  two. 
Be  sure  the  boiler  is  big  enough  to  allow  it  plenty 
of  water-room  ;  for  the  more  water  it  is  boiled  in, 
the  better  it  will  look,  and  the  tenderer  it  will  eat. 

Ohs.  —  In  '^  Mrs  Mason's  Ladies'  Assistant" 
this  joint  is  called  haunch-bone  ;  in  "  Henderson's 
Cookery,"  edge  hone ;  in  *'  Domestic  Manage- 
inent,"  aUch-hone ,"  in  '*  Reynolds'  Cookery," 
ische  houe.  We  have  also  seen  it  spelt  acA-bone, 
and  each-hone. 

Ribs  of  Beef  salted  and  rolled,    (No.  9.) 

Briskets,  and  the  various  other  pieces,  are  dress- 
ed in  the  same  way.  Wow  ^\  o  w  sauce  (No.  3^8) 
is  an  agreeable  companion  to  them. 

To  Boil  a  Calfs  Head     (No.  10.) 

'   Take  out  the  brains,  then  wash  the  head  well  in 
several  waters,  and  let  it  lie  in  soak  in  warm  water 


BOILING. 

for  an  hour  before  you  dress  it.  Tie  the  brains 
up  in  a  cloth  with  half  a  dozen  sage-leaves,  put 
them  with  the  head  into  a  kettle  with  plenty  of 
cold  water:  when  it  is  comino^  to  a  boil,  and  the 
scura  rises,  carefully  remove  it :  when  the  meat  at 
the  neck-end  is  tender,  it  is  done  enough.  Haifa 
calf's  head,  without  the  skin  on,  will  take  from  an 
hour  and  three  quarters  to  two  hours  and  a  quar- 
ter, according  to  its  size  ;  with  the  skin  on,  about 
half  an  hour  longer.  Chop  the  brains  with  the 
sage-leaves  that  were  boiled  with  them,  and  send 
them  to  table  on  a  separate  dish,  with  the  tongue 
(peeled),  and  cut  down  the  middle,  laid  on  each 
side  of  them.  This  dish  is  usually  attended  by 
bacon  or  pickled  pork,  and  greens,  cauliflowers, 
or  peas,  and  always  parsley  and  butfer.  No.  261. 
If  you  like  it  full  dressed,  beat  up  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  and  rub  it  over  the  head  with  a  feather ; 
powder  it  with  a  seasoning  of  dried  and  powdered 
lemon  thyme,  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  give  it  a  brown  with  a  salamander,  or 
in  a  tin  Dutch  oven  :  when  it  begins  to  dry 
sprinkle  a  little  melted  butter  over  it  with  a  paste 
brush.  You  may  garnish  the  dish  with  broiled 
rashers  of  bacon  laid  round  it. 

Obs. —  Calf's  head  is  one  of  the  most  delicate 
and  favourite  dishes  in  the  list  of  boiled  meats; 
but  nothing  is  more  insipid  wIk  n  cold  :  and  again, 
nothing  makes  so  nice  a  hash :  therefore,  al- 
ways save  a  quart  of  the  liquor  your  head  was 
boiled  in,  to  niRke  sauce,  &c.  for  the  hash.  Cut 
it  into  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
flour  them,  and  lay  them  ready  on  a  plate  :  take  tbe 
bones  of  the  head  and  the  trimmings,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  bacon  cut  into  slices^  (some  of  that 


EOILING. 

>vhich  v/as  dressed  to  eat  with  the  calf  s  head 
when  hot,  will  do,)  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
lar^e  onion,  and  a  blade  of  bruised  mace  :  put 
these  into  a  saucepan  with  the  quart  of  liquor  you 
have  saved,  and  let  it  stew  for  an  hour  and  a  half ; 
then  put  half  an  ounce  of  bn(ter  into  another 
stewpan  :  when  it  is  melted,  add  a  table  spoonful 
of  flour  to  it,  stir  it  well  together,  and  by  degrees 
add  to  it  the  gravy  you  have  made  with  the 
bones  and  trimmings,  siraining  it  through  a  hair 
sieve:  season  it  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and 
a  table  spoonful  of  ketchup  ;  give  it  a  boil  up, 
skim  it,  and  then  put  in  the  calf's  head  and 
bacon  to  warm,  (it  must  not  boil  after,)  and  it 
is  ready. 

N.B.  You  may  garnish  the  edges  of  the  dish 
with  slices  of  bacon  toasted  in  a  Dutch  oven,, 
and  slices  of  lemon. 


Pickled  Pork      (No.    11.) 

Eequires  more  time  than  any  meat.  AV hen  yon 
cook  a  leg,  which,  when  well  dressed,  is  a  favourite 
dish  with  almost  every  body,  take  care  it  does 
not  boil  fast ;  if  it  does,  the  knuckle  will  break  to 
pieces  before  the  thick  part  of  the  meat  is  warm 
through  :  a  leg  of  seven  pounds  will  take  nearly 
three  hours. 

If  not  doue  enough,  nothing  is  more  disagree- 
able: if  boiled  too  long,  it  loses  not  only  its  flavour, 
but  its  substance  becomes  soft  like  a  jelly.  It 
can  never  appear  at  table  without  a  good  pease 
pudding,  and,  if  you  please,  turnips  and  greens, 
&c.  and  remember  not  to  forget  your  mustard 
pot. 


BOILING.  : 

Pigs  Pettitoes.     (No.   12.) 

Put  a  thin  slice   of  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  a 

stcwpan,   ^vith  some  broth,    a  blade   of  mace,   a  j 

bay-leaf,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  a  bit  of  thyme  :  ^ 
boil  tlie   iiici  till  they  are  quite  tender:  this  will 

take  full  twenty  minutes  :   but  the   heart,    liver,  i 

and  lights,  will  be   done  enough    in   ten',  when  i 

they  are  to  be  taken  out,  and  minced  fine.  i 

Put  them   into  a  stewpan  with  a  little   gravy,  • 
tliicken  it    with   a  little    butter   rolled   in   flour, 
season  it  witli  a  little  pepper  and  salt,   set  it  over 

a  gentle  fire;  let  them  simmer  for  five  minutes,  ■ 
shaking  them  about  very  often. 

While  this  is  doing,  have  a  thin  slice  of  bread  \ 

toasted  very  lightly,  divide  it  into  sippets,   and  | 

lay  them  round   the   dish  :  pour   the  mince   and  ; 

sauce  into  the  middle  of  it,  and  split  the  feet  and  ; 

lay  them  round  it.  ! 

N'B,   The  pettitoes  are   sometimes    fried    in  : 

batter.  i 

Ohs.  — If  you    have   no   graA-y   in    the  water  i 

you  stew  the  pettitoes  in,  put  an  onion,  a  sprig  \ 

of  lemon  thyme,  or  sweet  marjoram,  with  a  blade  ! 

of  bruised  mace,  a  few  black  peppers,  and  a  large  ; 

tea-spoonful  of  lemon  pickle;   and  you  will  have  | 

a  very  tolerable  substitute  for  gravy.  j 

Bacon.     (No.    13.)  | 

Put  a  pound  of  nice  streaked  bacon  into  two  . 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  quick  for  '■■ 
SO  or  40  minutes  ;  take  it  up,  scrape  the  under  ! 
side  well,  and  cut  off  the  rind  :  grate  a  crust  of  ■ 
bread  over  it,  and  put  it  before  the  fire  for  a  few 


BOILl^'G. 

minutes;  it  must  not  be  there  loo  long,  or  it  will 
dry  it  too  much  and  spoil  it 

Two  pounds  will  require  an  bonr,  three  pounds 
an  hour  and  a  half;  the  liock  or  gammon  being 
very  thick,  will  take  full  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a 
pound  more. 

Hrm,  (No.  14) 

Though  of  the  bacon  kind,  has  been  so  altered 
and  hardened  in  the  particular  way  of  curing, 
it  requires  a  very  different  manner  of  dressing. 

it  is  generally  not  half  soaked,  as  salt  as  brine, 
and  hard  as  fiint :  if  it  is  very  dry,  it  must  be 
soaked  from  12  to  24  hours :  scrape  it  clean, 
trim  it  neatly,  and  put  it  into  lukewarm  water, 
•which  will  help  to  mellow  it  very  much.  Give 
it  plenty  of  water;  a  copper  is  the  best  thing  to 
boil  it  in  ;  put  it  in  while  the  water  is  cold,  and 
manage  the  fire  so  that  it  may  be  three  or  four 
hours  before  it  boils :  to  prevent  this,  put  in  a 
little  cold  water  occasionally,  but  do  not  put  in  so 
much  at  a  time  as  to  prevent  its  simmering  ;  keep 
scumming  it  carefully  all  the  time  :  then  stir  up 
your  f.jc,  and  make  the  water  boil  slowly,  and 
a  middling  sized  ham  will  be  finished  in  an  hour 
and  a  half;  a  large  one  in  two  hours,  or  a  very 
little  more  ;  and  it  will  be  very  clean,  and  eat  very 
tender. 

Pall  off  the  skin  carefully,  so  as  to  preserve  it 
as  whole  as  possible,  as  it  will  form  an  excellent 
covering  to  keep  the  ham  moist :  when  you  have 
removed  the  skin,  rub  some  bread  raspings  through 
a  hair  sieve,  or  grate  a  crust  of  bread  over  it. 


•    1 


BOILING. 

Tongue.     (No.   15.) 

A  Tongue  is  so  hard,  whether  prepared  by  drying 
or  pickling,  that  it  requires  much  more  time,  &c. 
than  a  ham  :  nothing,  of  its  weight,  takes  so  long 
to  dress  it  properly. 

A  tongue  that  has  been  salted  and  dried,  should 
be  put  to  soak  24  hours  before  it  is  wanted,  in  a 
large  quantity  of  water  :  a  green  tongue  fresh  from 
the  pickle  requires  soaking  only  a  few  hours  ;  they 
take  nearly  the  sametimedressing.  Let  your  tongue 
be  put  into  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  give  it  from 
three  and  a  half  to  four  hours  very  slow  simmering, 
according  to  its  size  :  about  half  an  hour  before  it  is 
done,  take  it  up,  peel  it,  and  put  it  into  the  pot 
again  io  finish  it ;  scum  the  pot  frequently  uhile 
it  is  doing,  and  it  will  come  out  tender  and  clean. 
It  is  a  general  rule  with  some  cooks  to  try  if  the 
tongue  will  peel,  and  then  allow  it  half  an  hour 
after  that. 


Toxvls,     (No.    IG.) 

Under  this  title  we  include  all  the  kinds  of  tame 
fowls,  from  the  turkey  to  the  chicken  :  they  are 
all  boiled  exactly  in  the  same  manner,  and  accord- 
ing to  the  same  rules,  only  allowing  time,  accord- 
ing to  the  size.  For  stuffings,  «&c.  see  No.  S74 
and  377. 

Turkies,  and  large  fowls,  should  always  have 
the  strings  or  sinews  of  the  thighs  drawn  out. 

Fowls  for  boiling  should  be  chosen  as  white  as 
possible :  those  which  have  even  black-legs  had 
better  be  roasted. 


BOfLING. 

Make  a  good  and  ckar  fire  ;  set  on  a  clean  poty 
with  plenty  of  pure  and  clear  water,  the  more  the 
better;  and  the  slower  it  boils  the  whiter  and 
j>lumper  the  fowl  will  be.  You  may  rub  a 
lemon  over  the  breast  of  your  fowl,  and  put  it  in. 
When  there  rises  any  scum,  the  common  method 
of  some  who  are  more  nice  than  wise,  is  to  wrap 
them  up  in  a  cloth,  to  prevent  the  scum  attaching 
to  them  ;  which  if  it  does,  by  your  neglecting-  to 
skim  your  pot,  there  is  no  getting  it  off  afterwards, 
and  the  pMuiierer  is  blamed  for  the  fault  of  the 
cook.  However,  if  there  be  water  enough,  and 
it  is  attentively  scummed,  the  fowl  will  both  look 
and  eat  much  better  this  way  than  when  it  has 
been  tied  up  in  the  cleanest  cloth  ;  and  both  the 
colour  and  flavour  of  your  poultry  will  be  preser- 
ved in  the  most  charming  and  delicate  perfection. 


Rabbits.     (No.    17.) 

Truss  your  rabbits  short,  put  them  info  plenty  of 
water,  and  boil  them  half  an  hour;  if  large  ones, 
three  quarters;  smother  them  with  onion  sauce, 
and  send  up  liver  sauce  in  a  boat. 


Tripe.     (No.   18.) 

Cut  the  tripe  into  pieces  about  two  inches  broad 
and  four  long  ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan  of  clean 
boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  half  an  hour;  then 
liave  another  clean  stewpan  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  milk  and  water  ;  when  this  boils,  take  the  tripe 
out  of  the  water,  and  put  it  into  the  milk  and 
water. 


BOILING.  i 

Boil   (by   themselves)   some   Spanish,    or    the  : 
whitest  common  onions  you  can  get ;  when   they 

are  tender,  drain  them  in  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  i 

them  to  the  tripe  in  a  tureen  or  soup-dish  :  take  [ 

oft' the  fat  if  any  floats  on  the  surface  ;   but  tripe  j 

dressed  in  this  way  is  seldom  greasy.  i 

Obs.  —  Rashers  of  bacon   are  a  very  good  ac-  j 

com paniraent  to  boiled  tripe.  • 


ROASTING. 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS. 


In  all  studies,  it  is  the  best  practice  to  begin  ^^ith  | 

the  phiincst  and  easiest  parts  ;    and  so  proceed,  ; 

by  degrees,   to  sucli   as  are  more  difficult:  we,  i 

therefore,  first  treat  of  plain  boiling  and  roasting*  j^  , 

♦  The  muscular  flesh   of  animals,  which  is  the  subject  of  j 

culinarv  operations,  is  composed  of  many  elements.     A  nice  ; 

discrimination  of  these  parts  is  by  no  means  necessary  for  i 
our  present  purpose ;  it  will  be  sufficient  to  point  out,  that  of 

muscular  flesh  one  part  becomes  coagulated  at  the  boiling  \ 
heat  of '212'^'  of  Fahrenheit,  and  resembles,  in  its  properties,  the 

\vhite   of  an    egg;    it  has,  therefore,   been   called  albumen,  j 

Another  component  part  is  the  animal  glue  or  jelly,  termed  '■ 

gelatin;  and   the  other  is  the  coloured  ju'^ce  contained  within  ; 

the   smaller  vessels,  which,  in   compliance  with  custom,  we  ; 
denominate  gravy.     In   the  preparation  of  food   by   hoilinc; 

and    roasting,  the  albumen  is  coagulated  :    the  same  effect  \ 

takes  place  in  the  drawing  of  gravy.     In  this  latter  operation  i 

the  gelatin   and   fluids  contained  m   the  smaller  vessels  are  ! 
extracted;   and   the  albumen,  coagulated    wi-ii    the   hbrous 

matter,  remains.  j 

It  will  be  evident,  from  this  statement,  tliat  roasted  meat .  j 


ROASTING. 

and  shall  then  gradually  unravel,  to  our  culinary 
students,  the  art  and  (until  we  candidly  and 
clearly  develop  it  in  this  "work)  mystery  of 
making,  ^vith  the  least  trouble  and  expense,  the 
most  delicious  and  highly  finished  made-dishes. 

Let  the  young  cook  never  forget  that  clean- 
liness is  the  first  cardinal  virtue  of  the  kitchen ; 
and,  as  the  first  preparation  for  Roasting,  take 
care  that  the  spit  be  properly  cleaned  with  sand 
and  water ;  nothing  else.  When  it  has  been 
well  scowered  with  this,  dry  it  with  a  clean  clotii. 
If  spits  are  wiped  clean  as  soon  as  the  meat  is 
drawn  from  them,  and  while  they  are  hot,  a  very 
little  cleaning  will  be  required.  The  less  the  spit 
runs  through  the  meat  the  better^' ;  and  take  espe- 
cial care  it  be  evenly  balanced  on  the  spit,  that 
its  motion  may  be  regular,  and  the  fire  operate 

is  more  nutritious  than  boiled;  because,  at  the  boiling  heat, 
a  great  quantity  of  the  gelatinous  part  is  extracted  by  the 
water. 

*  As  many  small  families  have  not  the  convenience  of 
roasting  with  a  spit,  a  remark  upon  roasting  by  a  string  is 
necessary. — Let  the  cook,  before  she  puts  her  meat  down  to 
the  fire,  pass  a  strong  skewer  through  each  end  of  the  joint:  by 
this  means,  when  it  is  about  half  done,  she  can  with  ease  turn 
the  bottom  upwards  ;  the  gravy  will  then  flow  to  the  part 
which  has  been  uppermost,  and  the  whole  joint  cut  and  eat 
most  delicately. 


ROASTINO. 

equally  on  each  part  of  it;  therefore  be  provided   i 
with  balancing  skewers.  j 

All  your  attention  in  roasting  will  be  thrown  j 
away  if  you  do  not  take  care  that  your  meat  I 
lias  been  kept  long  enough  to  be  tender*.  The 
only  way  to  make  sure  of  tliis,  is  to  have  it  home, 
and  hang  it  up  in  your  own  larder.  If  you  have 
not  a  good  airy  place  for  tliis  purpose,  bespeak 
your  n^eat  and  poultrj^  three  or  four  days  before 
you  wish  to  dress  it.  Examine  it,  before  you  spit 
it,  that  it  is  properly  jointed.  The  cook  as  often 
loses  her  credit  by  meat  being  dressed  too  fresb, 
as  by  fish  that  is  too  stale.  Dr.  Franklin,  in  his 
philosophical  experiments,  tells  us,  that  game  or 
poultry,  &c.  killed  by  electricity,  may  be  dressed 
immediately,  and  will  be  deliciously  tender. 

Make  up  the  fire  in  time,  and  let  it  be  pro- 
portioned to  the  dinner  to  be  dressed,  and  about 
four  inches  longer  at  each  end  than  the  thing  to 
be  roasted.     The   chemists  talk  of  their  several 

*  The  time  meat  should  hang  depends  entirely  on  the 
degree  of  heat  and  humidity  of  the  air:  if  not  kept  long 
enough,  it  is  hard  and  tough  ;  if  too  long,  it  loses  its  flavour  : 
it  should  hang  where  it  will  have  a  thorough  air,  and  dry  it 
well  with  a  cloth  night  and  niorning,  to  keep  it  from  growing 
damp  and  musty.  When  you  dress  it,  pare  off  the  QutsideS;^ 
as  they  sometimes  get  a  bad  taste. 


ROASTING. 

degrees  of  Iieat,  and  (h<?  cook  must  be  as  par- 
ticular to  proportion  her  fire  to  the  business  she 
Las  to  do. 

The  iire  tliat  is  but  just  sufficient  to  receive 
the  noble  sirloin,  ^vill  parch  up  a  lighter  joint. 
Proportion  the  solidity  of  your  fire  to  the  size 
of  your  joint ;  and  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour 
before  it  is  necessary  to  put  it  down  to  roast, 
prepare  the  fire  by  putting  a  few  coals  on,  wliich 
will  be  sufficiently  burnt  by  the  time  you  wish  to 
make  use  of  your  fire ;  rake  out  the  bottom, 
and  press  it  down  so  as  to  make  the  fire  solid  and 
good ;  between  the  bars  and  on  the  top  put 
small  round  coal  or  large  round  coals,  according 
to  the  bulk  of  the  joint,  and  the  time  the  fire  is 
required  to  be  strong;  aft^r  which,  throw  all  your 
cinders  (wetted)  at  the  back.  Never  put  j^our 
meat  down  to  a  burnt-up  fire  if  you  can  possibly 
avoid  it ;  but  should  it  be  so,  that  having  a  large 
dinner  to  cook  the  fire  is  become  fierce,  be  sure  to 
place  the  spit  at  a  considerable  distance,  and 
allow  your  meat  a  little  more  time.  Always  pre- 
serve the  fat  by  covering  it  with  paper ;  keep  by 
you,  for  this  purpose,  paper  called  ^'  kitchen 
paper,"  and  fine  twine  to  tie  it  on :  pins  and 
skewers  can  by  no  means  be  allowed,  as  they  are 
so  many  taps  to  let  out  the  gravy  of  your  meat ; 
besides,  the  paper  with  the  heat  of  the  fire  often 


ROASTING. 

starts  from  them  and  catches  light,  to  the  great 
injury  of  the  meat. 

If  the  thing  to  be  roasted  be  thin  and  tender, 
the  fire  should  be  little  and  brisk  ;  and  when  you 
have  a  large  joint  to  roast,  make  up  a  sound, 
strong  fire  ;  it  must  be  equally  good  in  every  part 
of  the  grate,  especially  at  the  ends,  or  your  meat 
cannot  be  equally  roasted,  nor  have  that  uniform 
colour  on  every  part  of  it,  which  constitutes  the 
beauty  of  good  roasting. 

Give  tlie  fire  a  good  stirring  before  you  lay  the 
joint  down,  examine  it  every  quarter  of  an  hour 
while  the  spit  is  going  round ;  keep  it  clear  at  the 
bottom,  and  take  care  there  are  no  smoky  coals  in 
the  front  of  it,  which  will  spoil  the  look  and  taste 
of  the  meat,  and  hinder  it  from  roasting  evenly. 
When  the  joint  to  be  roasted  is  thicker  at  one  end 
than  the  other,  place  the  spit  slanting,  so  that  the 
whole  time  the  thickest  part  is  nearest  the  fire,  and 
also  the  thinnest  by  this  means  is  preserved  from 
being  overmuch  roasted. 

Take  care  not  to  put  your  meat  too  near  the  fire ; 
the  larger  the  joint,  the  farther  it  must  be  kept 
from  the  fire*;  for  if  once  it  gets  scorched,  the 

*  From  14  to  10  inches  seem  to  be  about  the  distance  meat 
is  generally  put  from  the  grate  when  first  put  down  :  it  is  ex- 
tremely difficult  to  offer  any  thing  like  an  accurate  general  rule 
for  this,  as  it  depends  so  much  upon  the  size  of  the  fire  and  of 


ROASTING. 

outside  Avill  become  hard,  and  acquire  a  disagree- 
able strong  taste ;  and  the  fire  being  prevented 
from  penetrating  into  it,  the  meat  will  appear 
enough,  before  it  is  little  more  than  half  done,  be- 
sides losing  the  pale  brown  colour  which  it  is  the 
greatest  beauty  of  all  roast  meat  to  have. 

If  you  wish  your  jack  to  go  well,  keep  it  as 
clean  as  possible,  oil  it,  and  then  wipe  it ;  as,  if  the 
oil  is  not  wiped  off  again,  it  will  gather  dust:  to 
prevent  this,  as  soon  as  you  have  done  with  your 
jack  cover  it  up.  Never  leave  the  winders  on 
whilst  the  jack  is  going  round,  unless  you  do  it,  as 
Swift  says,  that  it  may  fly  off  and  knock  those 
troublesome  servants  on  the  head,  who  will  be 
crowding  round  your  kitchen  fire. 

Be  very  careful  to  place  the  drippingpan  at 
such  a  distance  from  the  fire,  as  just  to  catch  the 
drippings  :  if  it  is  too  near,  the  ashes  will  fall  into 
it,  and  spoil  the  drippings  ;*  (which,  we  shall  here- 
thai  of  the  thing  to  be  roasted,  till  some  culinary  philosopher 
shall  invent  a  thermometer  to  ascertain  the  degree  of  heat  of 
the  fire,  and  a  gi-aduated  spit  rack  to  regulate  the  distance  from 
it,  the  process  of  roasting  must  remain  among  those  which  can 
only  be  performed  well  by  very  frequent  practice. 

*  Which  the  good  housewife  ^vill  take  up  occasionally,  as  by 
leaving  it  all  in  the  dripping-pan  until  the  meat  is  taken  up, 
it  not  only  becomes  very  strong,  but  when  the  meat  is  rich 
and  yields  much  of  it,  it  is  apt  to  be  spilt  in  basting. 


ROASTING, 

.nfter  shew,  will  be  found  not  only  an  excellent 
substitute,  but  for  many  purposes  are  decidedly 
superior  to  either  butter  or  lard  ;)  if  it  is  too  far 
from  the  fire  to  catch  them,  you  will  not  only 
lose  your  drippings,  but  the  meat  will  be  blackened 
and  spoiled  by  the  foetid  smoke  which  will  arise 
when  the  fat  falls  on  the  live  cinders. 

The  time  meat  will  take  roasting  will  vary 
according  to  the  temperature  of  the  weather  :  the 
same  piece  will  be  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour 
longer  in  cold  weather^-  than  it  will  be  in  warm. 

It  k  difficult  to  give  any  specific  rule  for  time  ; 
but  if  your  fire  is  made  as  before  directed,  your 
meatskreen  is  sufficiently  large  to  guard  what  you 
are  dressing  from  currents  of  air,  and  the  meat  is  not 
frosted  f  ?  we  cannot  do  better  than  recommend  the 

*  If  the  meat  is  frozen,  put  it  into  coW  water  till  it  is 
tliawed,  then  dry  and  roast  it  as  usual;  or  bring  it  into  tlie 
kitchen  for  two  or  three  hours  before  you  want  to  roast  it, 
and  the  warm  air  will  thaw  it  perhaps  better  than  any  otheF 
way. 

t  The  tin  meat-screens  made  by  Lloyd,  furnishing  iron- 
monger, near  Norfolk  Street,  Strand,  are  infinitely  the  best;  as 
they  also  answer  all  the  purposes  of  a  large  Dutch  oven,  plate 
warmers,  warm  hearths.  Sec;  where  ai-e  also  sold,  bright 
block  tin  concave  reflectors,  to  screw  on  the  ends  of  the  spit : 
these  are  very  useful  and  economical,  as  they  not  only  save 
fire,  but  are  indispensably  necessary  to  brown  the  ends  of  your 


ROASTING. 

old  general  rule  of  allowing  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to 
the  pound ;  a  little  more  or  less,  in  proportion  as 
the  piece  is  thick  or  thin,  the  strength  of  the 
fire,  the  nearness  of  the  meat  to  it,  and  the 
frequency  with  which  you  baste  it :  the  more  it  is 
basted,  the  less  time  it  will  take,  as  it  keeps  the 
meat  soft  and  mellow  on  the  outside,  and  the  fire 
thereby  acts  with  more  force  upon  it. 

A  large  joint  should  be  basted  every  quarter  of 
an  hour,  till  within  half  an  hour  of  the  time  it  is 
done. 

It  is  also  a  good  general  rule,  when,  your  joint  is 
half  done,  to  remove  the  spit  and  drippingpan 
back,  and  stir  up  your  fire  thoroughly,  that  it 
may  burn  clear  and  bright  for  the  browning : 
when  the  steam  from  the  meat  draws  towards  the 
fire*,  it  is  a  sign  of  its  being  done  enough;  but 
you  will  be  the  best  judge  of  that  from  the  time  it 
has  been  down,  the  strength  of  the  fire  you  have 
used,  and  the  distance  your  spit  has  been  from  it. 

joints ;  without  which,  these  parts  will  seldom  be  done  as 
they  should  be.  The  same,  and  all  other  kitchen  and  iron- 
mongery goods,  are  excellently  well  made  by  Brownley,  Greek 
Street,  Soho. 

*  When  the  steam  begins  to  arise,  it  is  a  proof  that  the 
whole  joint  is  thoroughly  saturated  with  heat:  any  unnecessary 
evaporation,  is  a  waste  of  all  the  best  nourishment  of  the  meat; 
€ 


ROASTING. 

Just  before  you  take  it  up,  baste  it,  and  diedire 
it  >yi(h  flour  carefully :  (if  you  are  very  particular 
about  the  froth,  you  must  use  butter  instead  of 
dripping  :")  (see  Receipt  to  7\oast  a  Turkey  :  ^  and 
send  up  what  you  roast  with  pleasing  froth,  so 
presenting  an  agreeable  appearance  to  the  eye, 
ilie  palate  may  be  prepossessed  in  its  favour  at 
first  sight. 

Thougli  roast  ins:  is  one  of  the  most  common,  and 
is  generally  considered  one  of  the  most  easy  and 
simple  processes  of  cookery,  it  requires  more  unre- 
mitting attention  to  perform  it  perfectly  well,  than 
it  does  to  make  m<?st  made-dishes. 

That  made-dishes  are  more  ditticult,  I  think 
really  deserves  to  be  reckoned  among  the  culi- 
nary vulgar  errors  :  for  in  these  the  cook  has 
nothing  to  do  but  follow  the  receipt,  and  cannot 
very  easily  fail  :  but  in  plain  roastin^-  and  boiling 
it  is  Dot  easy  to  repair  a  mistake  once  made  ;  and 
all  the  discretion  and  attention  of  a  steady  careful 
cook  must  be  unremittingly  upon  the  alert*. 

*  A  celebrated  French  writer  has  made  the  following  ob&er- 
M»tions  on  roasting : 

*•  The  art  of  rxxistiug  victuals  to  the  pi-ecise  degree,  is  one 
of  the  most  dimcult  in  this  world,  and  you  may  find  a  tliou- 
!iand  good  cooks  sooner  than  one  perfect  roaster  :  (See  "  Alma- 
*icch  dcs  Gounnayids,*'  vol.  i.  p.  ST.")     In  the  mansions  of  the 


ROASTING. 

A  diligent  attention  to  time,  distance,  basting 

opulent  they  have,  besides  the  chief  cook,  a  roaster,  perfectly 
independent  of  the  former.  All  erudite  gourmands  know  these 
two  important  functions  cannot  be  performed  by  one  artist,  and 
that  it  is  quite  impossible  at  the  same  time  to  direct  the  opera- 
tions of  the  spit,  and  the  stewpan." — Further  on  the  same 
author  observes :  "  No  certain  rules  can  be  given  for  roast- 
ing, the  perfection  of  it  depending  on  many  circumstances 
which  are  continually  changing ;  the  age,  size,  shape,  and 
nature  of  the  pieces,  the  quality  of  the  coals,  the  temperature 
of  the  atmosphere,  the  currents  of  air  in  the  kitchen,  the  more 
or  less  attention  of  the  roaster;  and,  lastly,  the  time  of  serving. 
For  supposing  the  dinner  ordered  to  be  on  table  at  a  certain 
time,  if  the  fish  and  soup  are  much  liked,  and  detained  longer 
than  the  roaster  has  calculated ;  or,  on  the  contrary,  if  they 
are  despatched  sooner  than  is  expected,  the  roasts  will  in  one 
case  be  burnt  up,  in  the  other  not  done  enough — two  mis- 
fortunes equally  to  be  deplored.  The  first,  however,  is  without 
a  remedy ;  five  minutes  on  the  spit  more  or  less,  decides  the 
goodness  of  this  mode  of  cookery ;  and  it  is  almost  impossible 
to  seize  the  precise  instant  when  it  ought  to  be  eaten ;  which 
epicures  in  roasts  express  by  saying,  *  It  is  done  to  a  turn.* 
So  it  is  that  there  is  no  exaggeration  in  saying,  that  the  perfect 
roaster  is  even  more  rare  than  the  professed  cook. 

"  In  small  families,  where  the  cook  is  also  the  roaster,  it  is 
almost  impossible  the  roasts  should  be  well  done ;  the  spit 
claims  exclusive  attention,  and  is  an  imperious  mistress,  who 
demands  the  entire  de\otion  of  her  slave.  But  how  can  this  be  ? 
When  the  cook  is  obliged  at  the  same  time  to  attend  her  fish 
and  soup  kettles,  and  watch  her  stewpans  and  all  their  accom- 
c  2 


ROASTING. 

©ften*,  and  judicious  raanagement  of  (he  fire,  are 
all  the  general  rules  we  can  prescribe  for  roasting 

paniments,  it  is  morally  and  physically  impossible ;  if  she  gives 
that  delicate  and  constant  attention  to  the  roasts  which  they 
require,  the  rest  of  the  dinner  must  often  be  spoilt;  and  most 
cooks  will  rather  lose  their  character  as  a  roaster,  than  neglect 
the  made-dishes  and  *  entremets,'  &:c.  where  she  thinks  she 
can  display  her  culinai-y  science,  than  sacrifice  these  to  the 
roast;  the  perfection  of  which^  she  thinks,  will  only  prove  her 
steady  vigilance  and  patience. 

*  Our  ancestors  were  very  particular  in  their  bastings-  and 
dredgings,  as  will  be  seen  by  the  following  quotation  from 
**  Mays  Accomplished  Cook:'  London,  1665,  p.  136.— "  The 
rarest  ways  of  dressing  of  all  manner  of  roast  meats,  either  flesh 
or  fowl,  by  sea  or  land,  and  divers  ways  of  breading  or  dredging 
lueats  to  prevent  the  gravy  from  too  much  evaporating. 

Dredgings; 
1.  Flour  mixed  with  grated  bread.  2.  Sweet  herbs  dried  and 
powdered,  and  mixed  with  grated  bread.  3.  Lemon  peel  dried 
and  pounded,  or  orange  peel  mixed  with  flour.  4.  Sugar  finely 
powdered,  and  mixed  with  pounded  cinnamon,  and  flour,  or 
grated  bread.  5.  Fennel  seeds,  corianders,  cinnamon,  and 
sugar,  finely  beaten,  and  mixed  with  grated  bread  or  flour. 
6.  For  young  pigs,  grated  bread  or  flour  mixed  with  beaten 
nutmeg,  ginger,  pepper,  sugar,  and  yo^ks  of  eggs.  7.  Sugar, 
bread,  and  salt  mixed. 

Bastings. 
1.  Fresh  butter.     2.  Clarified  suet.     3.  Minced  sweet  herbs, 
butter  and  claret,  especially  for  mutton  and  lamb.     4.  Water 
and  salt.     5.  Cream  and  melted  butter,  especially  for  a  flayed 
pig.     6.  Yolks  of  eggs,  grated  biscuit,  and  juice  of  oranges. 


ROASTING, 

in  perfection ;  we  shall  deliver  particular  rules  for 
particular  things,  as  the  several  articles  occur,  and 
do  our  utmost  endeavours  to  instruct  our  reader 
as  completely  as  we  could  find  words  to  describe 
the  process,  and  teach 

"  The  management  of  common  things  so  well, 

*'  That  what  was  thought  the  meanest,  shall  excel : 

*'  That  cook 's  to  British  palates  most  complete, 

*^  Whose  sav'ry  skill  gives  zest  to  common  meat : 

"  For  what  are  your  soups,  your  ragouts,  and  your  sauce, 

"  Compar'd  to  the  fare  of  old  England, 

"  And  old  English  roast  beef!" 

\*  The  time  given  in  the  following  Receipts  is  calculated/or 
those  who  like  their  meat  thoroughlj/  roasted* 


ROASTING. 


Sirloin  of  BEEF.     (No.  19.) 

The  noble  sirloin  of  about  fifteen  pounds'  will 
require  to  be  before  the  fire  about  four  hours  :  take 
care  io  spit  it  straight,  that  it  may  not  be  heavier 
on  one  side  than  the  other  ;  put  a  little  clean 
dripping  into  the  drippingpan,  tie  a  sheet  of 
paper  over  it  to  preserve  the  flit*,  and  baste  it 
■well  as  soon  as  it  is  put  down,  and  baste  it  every 
quarter  of  an  hour  all  the  time  it  is  roasting  till 
the  last  half  hour ;  then  take  off  the  paper,  stir  the 
fire  and  make  it  clear :  to  brown  and  froth  it, 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it,  baste  it  with  butter, 
and  dredge  it  with  flour  ;  let  it  go  a  few  minutes 
longer  till  the  froth  rises,  take  it  up,  put  it  on  the 
dish,  &c.  To  make  gravy  for  it,  put  a  teaspoon- 
fnl  of  salt  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and 
pour  it  over  the  underside  of  the  meat,  and 
through  the  hole  the  spit  comes  out  of.  Garnish 
with  horseradish  scraped  as  fine  as  possible  with 
a  very  sharp  knife,  A  Yorkshire  pudding  is  an 
excellent  accompaniment.  (No.  595.) 

Obs.  —  The  inside  of  the  sirloin   must    never 
be  cut   hot,   but    reserved    entire   for   the   hash. 
y:(See  some  hints  to  housekeepers  on  this  subject  in 
the  Receipt  to  Hash  Beef  J  No.  506. 

*  If  there  is  more  fat  than  you  think  will  be  eaten  with  the 
meat,  cut  it  off,  it  will  make  an  excellent  pudding;  or  clarify 
it,  and  use  it  for  frying. 


ROASTING. 


Ribs  of  Beef.     (No.  20.) 

The  three  first  ribs,  of  fifteen  or  twenty  pounds, 
will  take  three  hours  and  a  half:  the  fourth  and 
fiFth  ribs  will  take  as  long,  managed  in  the  same 
way  as  the  sirloin.  Paper  the  fat,  and  the  thin 
part,  or  it  will  be  done  too  rauch^  before  the  thick 
part  is  done  enough. 

Ribs  of  Beef  boned  and  rolled.     (Na  2 1 .) 

When  you  have  kept  two  or  three  ribs  of  beef 
till  quite  tender,  take  out  the  bones,  and  skewer  it 
as  round  as  possible,  (like  a  fillet  of  veal,)  and 
bind  it  with  tape  to  prevent  the  skewers  breaking 
out :  as  the  meat  is  more  in  a  solid  mass,  it  will 
require  more  time  at  the  fire  than  in  the  preced- 
ing receipt ;  and  a  piece  often  or  twelve  pounds 
weight  will  not  be  well  and  thoroughly  roasted  in 
less  than  three  hours  and  three  quarters.  For  the 
first  half  hour  it  should  not  be  less  than  12  inches 
from  the  fire,  that  ii  may  get  gradually  warm  to 
the  centre  :  the  last  half  hour  before  it  will  be 
finished,  take  oft' the  tape,  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
over  it,  and  flour  and  froth  it. 


Rttinp  of  Beef     (No.  22.) 

Is  very  difficnlt  to  spit,  and  should  have  two 
strong  skevvers  tied  on  it  to  keep  it  steady  ;   their 
usual  weight  is  from  sixteen  to  twenty-four  pounds ; 
c  4 


ROASTING.  f 


.-iiid  the  time  they  must  be  at  the  fire,  from  four 
hours  to  four  and  a  half. 


Roast  MUTTON.     (No.  23.) 

As  beef  requires  a  large  sound  fire,  mutton 
must  have  a  brisk  and  fierce  one  :  it  is  never  well 
done  unless  the  fire  is  quick  and  clear,  and  the 
mutton  has  been  hung  as  long  as  it  will  keep  *. 

A  Leg.     (No.  24.) 

A  leg  of  eight  pounds  will  take  two  hours  and  a 
quarter  :  let  it  be  well  basted  and  frothed,  in  the 
same  manner  as  roast  beef. 


Dean  Swift's  Receipt  to  Roast  Mutton. 

"  Gently  stir  and  blow  the  fire, 
Lay  the  mutton  down  to  roast, 

Dress  it  quickly  I  desire, 
In  the  dripping  put  a  toast, 

That  I  hunger  may  remove, — 

Mutton  is  the  meat  I  love.    • 

'^  On  the  dresser  see  it  lie; 
Oh  !  the  cliarming  white  and  red  \ 

Finer  meat  ne'er  met  the  eye. 
On  the  s  veetest  grass  it  fed : 

Let  the  jack  go  swiftly  round. 

Let  me  have  it  nicely  brown'd. 

"  On  the  table  spread  the  cloth, 
Let  the  knives  be  sharp  and  clean, 

Pickles  get  and  salad  both, 
Let  them  each  be  fresh  and  green. 

V/ith  small  beer,  good  ale,  and  wine, 

O  ye  gods  !  how  I  shall  dine  !" 


ROASTING, 


A  Chine,     (No.  9.5) 
{i,  €.  the  two  loins)  or 

A  Saddle,     (No.  26.) 

(i.e.  the  two  necks,)  often  or  eleven  pounds,  two 
hours  and  a  half:  tie  a  sheet  of  paper  over  them  : 
baste  the  strings  you  tie  it  on  with  directly,  or 
they  will  burn ;  and  let  the  meat  be  well  basted. 

A  Shoulder,     (No.  27.) 

Of  seven  pounds,  an  hour  and  a  half :  put  the 
spit  in  close  to  the  shank  bone,  and  run  it  along 
the  blade  bone;  take  care  to  froth  it  nicely. 

A  Loin*    (No.  28.) 

Of  mutton  an  hour  and  a  half.  The  most  elegant 
way  of  carving  this,  is  to  cut  it  lengthwise,  as  you 
do  a  saddle. 

A  Neck,    (No.  29.) 

An  hour  and  a  half.  It  must  be  carefully  jointed, 
or  it  is  very  bad  to  carve. 

*  Common  cooks  very  seldom  brown  the  ends  of  neck  and 
loins :  to  have  this  done  nicely,  and  in  perfection,  let  the  fire 
be  a  few  inches  longer  at  each  end  than  the  joint  that  is  roasting, 
and  occasionally  place  the  spit  slanting,  so  that  each  end  may 
get  sufficient  fire  :  but  nothing  does  this  in  such  perfection 
as  the  concave  reflectors  before  mentioned.  This  is  much 
better  than  taking  up  the  meat  and  putting  it  down  before  the 
fire  to  do  the  ends ;  as,  by  the  latter  method,  you  camiot  send  it 
to  table  frothed. 

c  5 


ROASTING. 

Obs.  —  If  tbere  is  more  fat  upon  them  than 
you  think  will  be  eaten  with  the  lean,  cut  it 
6ffy  and  it  will  make  an  excellent  suet  pudding, 

J  Breast,     (No.  30.) 
An  hour  and  a  quarter. 

A  Haunch,     (No.  3 1 .) 

(/.  e.  the  leg  and  part  of  the  loin)  of  ran((on  is 
spitted  and  managed  in  the  same  way  as  a  haunch 
of  Venison  ;  (see  Receipt^  No.  63.)  send  up  two 
sauce  boats  with  it;  one  of  the  richest  drawn  gravy 
that  can  be  made  without  spice  or  herbs;  and  the 
other  of  sweet  sauce. 

Muttoiiy  Veiiison fashion,     (No.   32.) 

Take  a  neck  of  good  five  or  six  year  old  down 
mutton  cut  long  in  the  bones  ;  let  it  hang  at  least  a 
week  ;  two  days  before  you  dress  it,  take  allspice 
and  black  pepper  ground  and  pounded  fine,  an 
ounce  each,  with  a  quarter  of  aii  ounce  of  salt- 
petre, and  a  large  spoonful  of  brown  sugar  ;  rub 
them  all  well  together,  and  then  rub  your  mutton 
well  widi  this  mixture  twice  a  day  :  when  you 
dress  it,  wash  off  the  spice  with  warm  water,  and 
roast  it  in  paste,  as  we  have  ordered  the  haunch  of 
venison  :  a  haunch  of  mutton  will  take  double  the 
quantity  of  the  preparation,  and  one  day  longer 
preparing. 

Ohs.  —  Ingenious  epicures  have  invented 
many  methods  to  make  mutton  eat  like  venison  : 
the   above  is   the    best  imitation    we  have  met 


ROASTING. 

with ;  and  if  you  get  prime  mutton,  keep  it  a 
proper  time,  and  prepare  and  dress  it  as  above 
directed,  you  may  depend  upon  having  a  most 
delicious  dinner  :  if  it  does  not  possess  all  the  pre- 
cise flavour  of  venison,  it  is  certainly  the  most 
savoury  and  elegant  way  of  eating  mutton,  which, 
by  this  process,  approximates  nearer  to  the  taste  of 
venison  than  by  any  other  way  we  have  tried, 
and  is  not  attended  with  any  extraordinary  trouble 
or  expense. 

VEAL.    (No.  SS) 

Veal  requires  particular  care  to  roast  it  a  fine 
brown.  Let  the  fire  be  the  same  as  for  beef,  in 
proportion  ;  a  sound  large  fire  for  a  large  joint,  and 
a  brisker  for  a  smaller :  put  it  at  some  distance 
from  the  fire  to  soak  thoroughly,  and  then  draw  it 
near  to  finish  it  brown.  VVhen  it  is  first  laid 
down,  it  is  to  be  basted  with  butter ;  when  it  is 
almost  done,  it  is  to  be  basted  again,  and  lightly 
dredged  with  a  little  flour  to  froth  it  nicely.  With 
those  joints  which  are  not  stuffed,  send  up  cal'es  or 
balls  of  forcemeat,  (  No.  375,)  as  garniJi  to  the  dish, 
or  fried  pork  sausages.  Bacon  and  greens  are 
also  always  expected  to  attend  veal. 

Fillet  of  Veal,     (No.  34.) 

Of  from  twelve  to  fourteen  pounds,  will  require 
three  hours  and  a  half  at  a  good  fire  :  stuff  it  with 
forcemeat,  (see  Receipt,  No.  374.  J  where  the  bone 
is  taken  out,  and  under  the  flap,  that  there  may 
be  some  of  the  stuffing  left  to  eat  cold,  or  to  sea- 


ROASTING. 

son  a  hash  :  brown  it  and  froth  it  in  the  same  way 
as  beef,  and  pour  good  melted  butter  over  it; 
garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon,  and  cakes  or  balls 
of  stuffing,  No.  374,  or  No.  375. 

A  Loin      (No.  S5.) 

Is  the  best  part  of  the  calf:  it  will  take  two 
hours  and  three  quarters  roasting.  Paper  {\\q 
kidney  fat  and  the  back. 

A  Shoulder,     (No.  36.) 

Two  hours  and  a  half:  stuff  it  with  the  force- 
meat ordered  for  the  fillet  of  veal,  but  in  the 
underside. 

Neck,  best  end,     (No.  37.) 

Will  take  two  hours.  The  scrag  part  of  a  neck  of 
veal  is  not  good  roasted ;  it  is  best  made  into  a 
pye,  or  broth. 

Breast,     (No.  3^0 

An  hour  and  a  half.  Let  the  caul  remain  on  till  it 
is  almost  done,  then  take  it  off,  to  brown  it ;  baste, 
flour,  and  froth  it. 

Veal  Sweetbread.     (No.  39.) 

Trim  a  fine  heart-sweetbread,  parboil  it  for  four 
or  five  minutes,  and  throw  it  into  a  basin  of  cold 
water. 

Beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg^  and  prepare  some 
fine  bread  crumbs.     When  the  sweetbread  is  cold, 


ROASTING. 

dry  it  thoroughly  in  a  cloth,  run  a  lark  spit  or  a 
skewer  through  it,  and  tie  it  on  the  spit :  egg  it  all 
over  with  a  paste  brush,  and  powder  it  well  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  put  it  down  to  roast :  twenty  or 
thirty  minutes  will  dress  them. 

For  sauce,  fried  bread  crumbs  round  them  and 
melted  butter,  with  a  little  mushroom  catsup  and 
lemon  juice. 

Ohs, —  Instead  of  spitting  them,  you  may  put 
them  into  a  tin  Dutch  oven. 

LAMB     (No.  40.) 

Is  a  delicate,  tender  meat,  easily  spoiled  in  the 
dressing ;  the  fire  must  be  small  and  brisk,  and 
kept  clear  all  the  while ;  the  meat  must  be  papered 
on  the  outside  ;  and  to  the  usual  accompaniments 
of  roast  meat,  green  mint  sauce  is  commonly 
added. 

Grass  lamb  is  in  season  from  Easter  to  Michael- 
mas. 

House  lamb  from  Christmas  to  Lady-day. 

Hind  Quarter,     (No.  41.) 

Of  eight  pounds,  will  take  from  an  hour  and  three 
quarters  to  two  hours,  basted  and  frothed  in  the 
same  way  as  beef. 

Fore  Quarter,     (No.  42.) 

Often  pounds,  two  hours. 
iV.  B*    It  is  a  pretty  general  custom,  when  you 
take  off  the  shoulder  from  the  ribs,  to  squeeze  a 


ROASTING. 

Seville  oran£?e  over  llieni,  and  sprinkle  tbem  with  a 
little  pepper  and  salt. 

Leg,     (No.  43.) 

Of  five  pounds,  an  hour  and   a   balf  to  three 
quarters. 

Shoulder,     (No.  44.) 

With  a  quick  fire  an  hour. 

llibs,     (No.  45.) 

An  liour  and   a   quarter:  stew   the   scrag   for 
gravy. 

Loin,     (No.  46.) 
An  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Neck,     (No.  47.) 
An  hour. 

Breast,     (No.  48.) 
Three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

PORK.     (No.  49.) 

The  prime  season  for  pork  is  from  Michaelmas 
to  March.  Take  particular  care  it  be  done 
enough  :  other  meats  underdone  are  unpleasant 
<o  some,  but  pork  is  uneatable  by  all. — liemeru- 
ber  your  mustard  pot. 


ROASTING. 

A  Leg,     (No.  50.) 

Of  eight  pounds,  will  require  two  hours  and  a 
half:  score  the  skin  across  in  narrow  stripes, 
about  half  an  inch  apart  ;  stuft' the  knuckle  with  a 
little  sage  and  onion  minced  fine  ;  rub  a  liitle  sweet 
oil  on  the  skin  with  a  paste  brush,  or  a  goose 
feather;  this  makes  the  crackling  crisp  and  brown 
much  better  than  basting  it  with  dripping;  and  it 
will  be  a  better  colour  than  all  the  art  and  dili- 
gence of  cookery  can  make  it  any  other  way. 
This  way  of  dressing,  also,  always  prevents  the 
skin  from  blistering. 

Leg  of  Pork  roasted  xvithout   the   Skin,  or 
Mock  Goose.     (No.  5\) 

Parboil  it  for  half  an  hour,  take  off  the  skin, 
and  then  put  it  down  to  roast,  and  baste  it  with 
butter,  and  make  a  savoury  powder  of  dried  and 
powdered  sage,  ground  black  pepper^  salt,  nut- 
meg, and  bread  crumbs  ;  sprinkle  it  with  this  from 
time  to  time,  as  it  roasts ;  put  half  a  pint  of  made 
gravy  into  the  dish. 

The  Griskin      (No.  52.) 

Of  seven  or  eight  pounds  may  be  dressed  in  the 
above  manner  :  it  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half 
roasting. 

Bacon,  Sparerib,     (No.  53.) 

Usually  weighs  about  eight  or  nine  pounds,  and 
will  take  from  two  to  three  hours  to  roast  it  well ; 


ROASTING. 

not  exactly  nccordins:  to  its  weiirht,  but  from  tlie 
tliickness  of  tl]e  meat  upon  it,  ^vbicll  varies  very 
much  :  lay  the  thick  end  nearest  lo  the  fire.  A 
proper  bald  sparerib  (so  called  because  almost  all 
the  meat  is  pared  off,)  with  a  good  clear  fire,  will 
be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  half. 

When  you  lay  it  down,  dust  on  some  flour,  and 
baste  it  >vnh  a  little  butter;  dry  twelve  sai^e  leaves, 
and  rub  them  throuirh  a  hair  sieve  :  about  a  quar- 
ter oiL  an  hour  before  the  meat  is  done,  baste  it, 
strew  on  the  pulverized  sasfe.  and  dust  on  a  ladle  of 
flour,  and  sprinkle  it  with  a  little  salt. 

Obs.  —  Make  it  a  general  rule  never  to  pour 
gravy  over  any  thing  tliat  is  roasted  ;  by  so  doing, 
the  dredging  is  washed  off,  and  it  eats  insipid. 
Some  people  carve  a  sparerib  by  cutting  out  slices 
in  the  thick  part  at  the  bottom  of  the  bones  :  w  hen 
this  meat  is  cut  away,  the  bones  may  be  easily 
separated,  and  are  esteemed  very  sweet  picking. 
Apple  sauce,  mashed  potatoes,  and  good  mustard. 

Zch?,     (Xo.  5i.) 

Of  iive  pounds,  must  be  kept  to  the  fire  about  an 
Lour  and  a  half.  Score  the  skin,  and  rub  it  with 
salad  oil,  as  directed  in  the  receipt  for  the  leg ; 
and  you  may  sprinkle  over  it  some  of  the  savoury 
powder  recommended  for  the  mock  goose, 

A.Cfiirie      (Xo.  55.) 

Is  parted  down  the  back-bone,  so  as  to  have  but 
one  side.  A  good  fire  will  roast  it  in  two  hours: 
if  not  parted,  three  hours. 


ROASTING. 

Roast  Pig,    (No.  56.) 

A  roasting  pig  is  considered  to  be  in  primest 
order  for  the  spit  when  about  three  weeks  old ; 
should  be  fixi^  and  newly  killed.  It  is  not  like 
other  meats,  good  as  long  as  thej^  are  sweet.  The 
pig  loses  part  of  its  goodness  every  hour  after  it  is 
killed.  To  be  in  perfection,  it  should  be  killed  in 
the  morning  to  eat  at  dinner ;  and  it  requires  very 
nice  and  careful  roasting  ;  the  ends  must  have 
much  more  fire  than  the  middle.  For  this  pur- 
pose is  contrived  an  iron  to  hang  before  the  middle 
part,  called  a  pig-iron.  When  the  cook  has  not 
this,  she  must  keep  the  fire  fiercest  at  the  two 
ends.  Take  the  crumb  of  a  stale  twopenny  loaf, 
i.  e.  about  four  ounces,  rub  it  through  a  cullen- 
der ;  mince  fine  a  handful  of  sage,  about  two 
ounces  and  a  half,  and  a  large  onion,  about  an 
ounce  and  a  half* ;  mix  these  together  with  some 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as  an 
egg ;  fill  the  belly  of  the  pig  with  this,  and  sew  it 
up;  lay  it  to  the  fire,  and  take  halfa  pound  of 
fresh  butter  and  keep  basting  it  till  it  is  quite  done, 
and  do  not  leave  it  a  moment,  for  it  requires  the 
most  vigilant  attendance. 

Roast  it  at  a  clear  brisk  fire,  at  some  distance, 
that  the  crackling  may  get  nicely  crisped  and 
browned  without  being  blistered  or  burnt  :  it  will 
be  enough  in  about  an  hour  and  a  half  Before 
you  take  it  off  the  spit,  cutoff  the  head,  and  part 
that  and  the  body  down  the  middle;   chop  the 

*  Boil  the  sage  and  onion  in  a  little  water  (before  they  are 
^ut) ;   it  softens  and  takes  off  the  rawness  of  tlieir  flavour. 


ROASTING. 

brains  very  fine  with  some  boiled  sage,  and  mix 
them  with  some  good  beef  gravy  in  a  sauce-tureen. 
Send  up  plenty  of  gravy  in  the  dish,  and  atureen- 
ful  besides.  Lay  your  pig  back  to  back  into  the 
dish,  with  one  half  of  the  head  on  one  side,  the 
other  half  on  the  other  side,  and  the  ears  one  at 
each  end,  which  you  must  take  care  to  make  nice 
and  crisp,  or  you  will  get  scolded  as  well  as  the 
good  man  was  who  bought  his  wife  a  pig  with  only 
one  ear. 

Obs. — Some  professors  of  cookery  insist  upon  it 
that  nothing  so  well  produces  and  preserves  the 
beauty  and  crispness  of  the  crackling  as  sweet  oil, 
applied  as  directed  in  the  receipt  to  roast  a  leg 
of  pork, 

Turkey,     (No.  57) 

A  fowl  and  a  turkey  require  the  same  manage* 
ment  at  the  fire,  only  the  latter  will  take  more  time. 
Let  them  be  carefully  picked,  &c.  and  twist  up  a 
sheet  of  large  clean  writing  paper,  light  it,  and  tho- 
roughly singe  the  turkey  all  over,  turning  it  about 
over  the  flame.  Be  careful  when  you  draw  them 
to  preserve  the  liver,  and  not  to  break  the  gall-bag, 
as  no  washing  will  take  oflthe  bitter  taste  it  gives, 
where  it  once  touches.  Prepare  a  nice  clear  brisk 
fire,  for  if  the  fire  be  poor  and  dead,  your  poultry 
will  be  vapid  and  ill-tasted.  A  very  brisk  and 
clear  fire  will  only  answer  the  purpose,  and  this 
will  give  them  their  true  taste,  and  make  them 
look  bf^autiful. 

Prepare  your  stuffing  according  to  one  of  the  re- 
ceipts in  the  chapter  of  forcemeats,  &c.  No.  olQ ; 


ROASTING. 

stuff  this  under  the  breast  where  the  craw  was 
taken  out,  paper  the  breast,  place  the  liver  under 
one  wing,  and  the  gizzard  under  the  other,  baste 
it  with  butter,  and  dredge  it  with  flour,  keep  it  at 
a  distance  from  the  fire  for  the  first  half  hour,  that 
it  may  warm  gradually,  then  put  it  nearer,  and 
when  it  is  plumped  up,  and  the  steam  draws  i?i 
toward  the  fire,  it  is  nearly  enough,  then  take  off 
the  paper,  put  a  bit  of  butter  into  your  basting  ladle, 
and  as  it  melts  baste  the  turkey  with  it,  and  dredge 
it  lightly  again  with  flour  ;  this  will  raise  a  much 
finer  froth  than  using  the  drippings  out  of  the  pan. 
A  very  large  turkc}^  of  fourteen  or  fifteen  pounds 
weight,  will  require  three  hours  to  roast  it  tho- 
roughly; a  middling  sized  one  of  eight  or  ten 
pounds,  about  two  hours  ;  and  a  small  one  may  be 
done  in  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Fried  pork  sausages  are  a  very  savoury  and 
relishing  accompaniment  to  either  roasted  or 
boiled  poultry.  A  turkey  thus  garnished,  is 
called  **  an  alderman  in  chains."  The  sausage 
meat  may  be  used  as  a  stuffing  also,  instead  of  the 
ordinary  forcemeat.  In  cold  weather  a  turkey 
eats  the  better  for  being  kept  eight  or  ten  days.  If 
you  wish  it  to  be  tender,  never  dress  it  till  at  least 
four  or  five  days  after  it  has  been  killed,  or  a  fowl 
till  after  three.  Hen  turkeys  are  preferable  to  cocks 
for  whiteness  and  tenderness,  and  the  small  fleshy 
ones  are  the  most  esteemed. 

Send  up  with  them,  oyster,  egg^  bread,  or 
gravy  sauce. 

Capons  or  Foxvls.     (No.  58.) 
These  must  be  killed  a  couple  of  days  before 


ROASTING, 

they  are  dressed,  or  they  will  eat  tougb  :  they  are 
managed  exactly  in  the  same  manner,  and  sent 
up  with  the  same  sauces  as  a  turkey,  only  require 
proportionately  less  time  at  the  fire  :  a  full  grown 
fowl  three  quarters,  a  moderate  size  one  half  an 
ho!ir,  and  a  chicken  ten  minutes  less. 

Pork  sausages  fried  are  in  general  a  favourite 
accoiupaninsent,  or  stuff  them  with  turke}'  stuffing; 
(see  Forcemeats,  No.  S74,  5,  6,  and  7  ;)  put  in 
plenty  of  it,  so  as  to  plump  out  the  fowl,  which 
must  be  tied  closely  both  at  the  neck  and  rump  to 
keep  in  the  stuffing:  some  cooks  put  the  liver  of 
the  fowl  into  this  lorcemeat,  otliers  rub  it  up  with 
the  flour  and  butter,  to  thicken  and  give  flavour 
to  the  gravy,  which  receives  further  improvement 
by  stewing  the  legs  of  the  fowl  in  it,  instead  of 
sending  them  to  table,  and  the  fowl  looks  much 
better  without  them. 

Obs. — The  age  in  poultry  makes  all  the  differ- 
ence :  nothing  is  tenderer  than  a  chicken,  and  few 
things  are  tougher  or  harder  of  digestion  than 
an  old  cock  or  hen :  the  season  of  perfection  in 
pouUry  is  just  before  they  have  quite  come  to 
their  full  growth,  and  before  they  have  begun  to 
harden. 


Goose.     (No.  59.) 

"When  your  goose  is  well  picked,  singed,  and 
cleaned,  take  two  large  onions*,  and  half  as  much 

*  If  the  flavour  of  the  raw  onions  is  too  strong,  cut  them  in 
slices  and  lay  ihem  in  cold  water  for  a  couple  oi  hours,  or  add 
as  much  apple  or  potatoe  as  you  have  onion. 


ROASTING. 

sage,  chop  them  very  fine,  a  hirge  breakfas(cup- 
ful  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  and  some  pepper  and 
salt,  add  to  them  tlie  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  incor- 
porate the  whole  well  together ;  put  this  stuffing 
into  the  goose  ;  do  not  quite  fill  it  with  stuffing, 
but  leave  a  little  room  for  it  to  swell,  spit  it,  and 
tie  it  on  the  spit  at  both  ends,  so  as  it  will  not 
swing  round,  and  to  keep  the  stuffing  from  coming 
out.  An  hour  and  a  quarter  will  roast  a  large  full 
grown  goose  :  send  up  rich  gravy  and  apple 
sauce  with  it. 

For  another  stuffing  for  geese,  see  No.  388, 
Chapter  on  Forcemeats^  <^c. 

0^5. —The  Michaelmas  goose  is  famous  in  the 
mouths  of  the  million  ;  but  for  those  who  eat  with 
delicacy,  it  is  at  that  time  too  full  grown.  The 
true  period  when  the  goose  is  in  its  highest  perfec- 
tion, is  when  it  has  just  acquired  its  full  growth, 
and  not  begun  to  harden.  If  the  green  goose  is 
insipid,  the  Michaelmas  goose  is  rank  ;  the  fine 
time  is  between  both  ;  from  the  last  week  in  June 
to  the  first  week  inSeptember. 

Green  Goose.     (No.  60.) 

The  only  difference  in  roasting  a  green,  or  a 
full  grown  goose,  consists  in  leaving  out  the  sage 
and  onion,  and  putting  only  a  seasoning  of  pepper 
and  salt  into  it,  and  that  forty  or  fifty  minutes  will 
roast  it. 

The  following  forcemeat  is  sometimes  intro- 
duced :  chop  some  sweet  herbs,  grate  some  bread, 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  moisten  with  an  t^^^ 


ROASTING. 

and  mix  with  it  the  liver  cut  small,  and  a  bit  of 
minced  bacon  ;  mix  all  well  together,  and  fill  the 
body  of  the  goose  with  it. 

Duck.      (No.  61.) 

Mind  your  duck  is  well  cleaned,  and  tlien  wipe 
it  out  with  a  clean  cloth  ;  then  take  an  ounce  of 
onion,  and  half  an  ounce  of  green  sage,  chop  them 
very  fine,  and  mix  them  with  two  ounces,  i.  e. 
about  a  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  to  bind  it ; 
mix  these  thoroughly  together,  and  put  it  in  the 
duck.  For  another  stuffing,  see  No.  S88.  Thirty 
or  forty  minutes  will  be  enough  to  roast  it,  ac- 
cording to  the  size  :  contrive  to  have  the  feet  crisp, 
as  some  people  are  very  fond  of  them  :  to  do  this, 
you  must  have  a  very  sharp  fire. 

N»  B.  If  you  think  the  raw  onion  will  make 
too  strong  an  impression  upon  yo\u  palate,  par- 
boil it. 

(No.  62.)    . 

For  the  following  observations  I  am  indebted  to 
Major  H  awker's  entertaining  and  informing  work, 
*'  Instructions  for  Younsr  Sportsmen^''''  London, 
1816.  s     /'  ' 

"  Old  pheasants  may  be  distinguished  by  the 
length  and  sharpness  of  their  spurs,  which  in  the 
younger  ones  are  short  and  blunt. 

"  Old  partridges  are  always  to  be  known  during 
the  early  part  of  the  season,  by  their  legs  being  of 
a  pale  blue,   instead  of  a  yellowish  brown  :   so 


ROASTING. 

that  when  a  Londoner  receives  his  brace  of  blue 
legged  birds  in  September,  be  should  immediately 
snap  their  legs,  and  draw  out  the  sinews,  by  means 
of  pulling  off  the  feet,  instead  of  leaving  them  to 
torment  him,  like  so  many  strings,  when  he  would 
be  wishing  to  enjoy  his  repast.  This  remedy  to 
make  the  legs  tender,  removes  the  objection  to  old 
birds,  provided  the  weather  will  admit  of  their 
being  sufficiently  kept  ;  and  indeed  they  are  then 
often  preferable,  from  having  a  higher  flavour. 

"  If  birds  are  over-kept,  their  legs  will  be  dry, 
their  eyes  much  sunk,  and  the  vent  will  become 
soft,  and  somewliat  discoloured.  The  first  place 
to  ascertain  if  they  are  beginning  to  be  high,  is  the 
inside  of  their  bills,  where  it  is  not  amiss  to  put 
some  hether  straw,  or  spice,  if  you  want  to  keep 
them  for  any  length  of  time.  Birds  that  have 
fallen  into  the  water,  or  have  not  had  time  to  get 
cold,  should  not  be  packed  like  others,  but  sent 
openly,  and  dressed  as  soon  as  possible.  Sports- 
men are  often  heartily  abused  by  their  acquaint- 
ance, (I  cannot  yet  bring  myself  to  hackney  the 
vrord  friends  quite  so  fluently  as  I  ought  to  do,) 
for  sending  them  '  tough  and  good-for-nothing 
^ame,'  while  all  the  blame  should,  in  many 
instances,  rest  with  themselves,  or  their  pudding- 
headed  cook,  who  may  be  dresses  an  old  phea- 
sant or  hare  the  very  day  4i$/f  after  it  was  killed  ; 
or  perhaps,  while  engrossed  in  a  story  or  argument, 
leaves  it  to  roast  away,  till  there  remains  neither 
juice  nor  flavour.  AH  game  should  be  kept  till 
properlz/  tender.  The  following  sauce  for  wild 
fowl  has  been  preferred  to  about  fifty  others ;  and, 


ROASTING. 

at  one  time,  was  not  to  be  got  witbout  the  fee  of  a  : 

guinea :  , 

Recipe  for  Sauce  to  Wild  Fowls,  j 

Port  wine,  or  claret 1  glass. 

Sauce  a  la  Russe*,  (the  older  the  )  .  f„uio..rv««,.roi  1 

tetter) • 5     '^^^^spoonfuK  ] 

Catsup - 1  ditto.  ■ 

Lemon  juice 1  ditto.  ■ 

Lemon  peel ^ 1  slice.  ■ 

Shalot,  (a  large) 1  sliced.  \ 

Cayenne  Pepper,  (the  darkest,  )  • 

not   that  hke  brickdust)  .  • . .  f  *  ^^^'^^'  ^ 

Mace    1  or  2  blades.  | 

To  be  scalded,  strained,  and  added  to  the  mere  ; 
gravy  which  comes  from  the  bird  in  roasting.  To  ; 
complete  this,  the  fowl  should  be  cut  up  in  a  : 
silver  dish  that  has  a  lamp  under  it,  while  the  \ 
sauce  is  simmering  with  it. 

Haunch  of  Venison,     (No.  63.) 

Make  a  paste  of  flour  and  water,  as  much  as  \ 
will  cover  a  haunch  of  venison,  wipe  it  over  with  ; 
a  dry  cloth  in  every  part,  and  take  off  the  skin 
from  the  upper  side,  rub  a  large  sheet  of  paper  j 
all  over  with  butter,  and  cover  tbe  venison  with  it,  | 
then  roll  out  the  paste  about  three  quarters  of  an 
inch  thick,  lay  this  all  over  the  fat  side,  then  co-  , 
ver  it  well  with  three  or  four  sheets  of  strong  white  j 
paper,  and  tie  it  very  well  on  with  packthread ;  i 
have  a  strong  close  fire,  and  baste  your  venison  as  \ 
soon  as  you  lay  it  down  to  roast,  or  the  paper  and  i 
string  will  burn  ;  it  must  be  well  basted  all  the  ; 
lime.     A  haunch  of  sixteen  pounds  will  take  four  ! 

*  By  a  la  Russe  we  suppose  cavice,  or  coratch,  or  soy,  is  ; 
meant.  1 


ROASTING. 

Lours  and  a  half  roasting :  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
before  it  is  done,  the  string  must  be  cut,  and  the 
paste  carefully  taken  off;  now  baste  it  with  butter, 
dredge  it  lightly  with  flour,  and  when  the  froth 
rises,  and  it  has  got  a  fine  light  brown  colour, 
garnish  the  knuckle  bone  with  wet  writing  paper, 
and  send  it  up,  with  good  gravy  in  one  boat,  and 
currant-jelly  sauce  in  the  other. 

Obs.  Buck  venison  is  in  greatest  perfection 
from  Midsummer  to  Michaelmas,  and  Doe  from 
November  to  January. 

Neck  and  Shoulder  of  Fenison      (No.  64.) 

Are  fo  be  managed  in  the  same  way  as  the 
haunch  ;  only,  as  they  are  smaller  joints,  they  will 
not  require  so  much  time. 

The  best  way  to  spit  a  neck,  is  to  put  three 
skewers  through,  and  put  the  spit  between  the 
skewers  and  the  bones. 

Fawn,     (No.  65.) 

When  very  young,  is  trussed,  stuffed,  and 
spittqd  the  same  way  as  a  hare  ;  but  they  are 
better  eating  when  of  the  size  of  a  house  lamb, 
they  are  then  roasted  in  quarters,  and  the  hind 
quarter  is  most  esteemed.  They  must  be  put 
down  to  a  very  quick  fire,  and  either  basted  all  the 
time  they  are  roasting,  or  be  covered  with  sheets 
of  fat  bacon  :  when  done,  baste  it  with  butter,  and 
dredge  it  with  a  little  salt  and  flour  till  you  make 
a  nice  froth  on  it. 

Send  up  venison  sauce  with  it.  See  the  pre- 
ceding receipt,  or  No.  344,  &c, 

i>  1 


ROASTING. 


Hare,     (No.  66) 

The  first  points  of  consideration  are,  how  old  is 
the  hare  ?  and  how  long  it  has  been  killed  ?  When 
young,  it  is  easy  of  digestion,  and  very  nourishing  ; 
but  when  old,  the  contrary  in  every  respect.  To 
ascertain  the  age,  examine  the  first  joint  of  the 
fore  foot  ;  you  will  find  a  small  knob  if  it  is  a 
leveret,  "which  disappears  as  it  grows  older:  then 
examine  the  ears;  if  they  tear  easily,  it  will  eat 
tender,  if  they  are  tough,  so  will  be  the  hare, 
which  will  eat  better  stewed,  or  jugged,  than  it 
-will  roasted.  When  newly  killed,  the  body  is 
stiff;  as  it  grows  stale,  it  become  limper.  As  soon 
as  you  receive  a  hare,  take  out  the  liver,  parboil 
it,  and  keep  it  for  (he  stuffing,  as  some  are  very 
fond  of  it ;  but  do  not  use  it,  if  it  be  not  quite  fresh 
and  good.  Wipe  the  hare  quite  dry,  rub  the 
inside  with  pepper,  and  hang  it  up  in  a  dry  cool 
place. 

Do  not  prepare  too  fierce  a  fire,  or  you  will  burn 
the  outside  before  the  inside  is  warm. 

When  you  have  paunched  and  skinned  your 
hare,  wash  it  and  lay  it  in  a  large  pan  of  cold 
water  for  four  or  five  hours,  changing  the  water 
two  or  three  times  ;  lay  it  in  a  clean  clolh,  and 
dry  it  well,  then  truss  it,  and  take  a  twopenny 
loaf  and  rub  the  crumb  through  a  cullender,  then 
take  some  dried  sweet  herbs  rubbed  fine,  a  handful 
of  parsley,  and  a  roll  of  very  thin  cut  lemon  peel 
minced  very  fine,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  bit 
of  butter  as  big  as  a  walnut:  mix  all  well  together 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  moisten  it  v/ith  milk  : 


ROASTING. 

put  lliis  padding  into  the  belly  of  your  bare,  sew 
it  up  tight,  cut  the  neck  skin  to  let  the  blood  out,  or 
it  will  never  appear  to  be  done  enough,  spit  it,  and 
put  a  quart  of  milk*  into  your  drippingpan,  and 
baste  it  continually  till  you  think  it  is  nearly  done, 
(which  it  will  be  in  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter ;  ) 
if  it  wants  more,  let  it  have  it,  or  it  will  be  hard 
and  dry  :  when  almost  roasted  enough,  put  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  your  basting- 
ladle,  and  baste  it  with  tliis,  and  flour  it,  and 
frotk  it  nicely.  Serve  with  good  gravy,  and 
currant-jelly.  For  another  stuffing,  sec  receipt 
No.  389.  Some  coolis  cut  off  the  head,  and 
divide  it,  and  lay  one  half  on  each  side  of  the 
hare. 

Obs.  —  Hares  should  always  be  paunched  Im 
the  field  when  caught,  or  as  soon  as  they  arc 
brought  home,  by  making  an  incision  in  the  belly 
about  four  inches  long,  then  lay  hold  of  the  head 
and  ears  with  one  hand,  and  the  rump  with  the 
other,  shake  it  for  a  little  while  backwards  and 
forwards,  and  the  guts  and  stomach  will  fall 
out,  leaving  the  heart,  kidneys,  and  liver  beliind  ; 
wipe  it,  &c.  as  we  have  directed  in  Uie  beginning 
of  this  receipt,  and  put  in  a  wisp  of  dry  straw  or 
hay  ;  it  will  then  keep  as  long  again. 

Cold  roast  hare  will  make  an  excellent  soup, 
chopped  to  pieces,  and  stewed  in  three  quarts  of 
water  for  a  couple  of  hours  :  the  stuiling  will  be  a 

*  Mrs.  Charlotte  Mason,  in  her  "  Complete  System  ofCaoli- 
en/"  page  283,  says  she  has  "  tried  ail  the  different  tliin<!fs 
recoinmended  to 'baste  a  hare  \vith,  and  never  found  any 
tiling  so  good  as  small  beer  ;  our  receipt  says  milk  ;  but,  per- 
haps, after  all,  plain  water  is  better  than  anv  thing,'' 

d2 


-  ROASTING. 

very  agreeable  substitute  for  sweet  herbs  and  sea-  j 

soning.     See  receipt  for  Hare  soup,  No.  241.  \ 

j 

RabbiL     (No.  67.)  i 

If  your  fire  is  clear  and  sharp,  thirty  minutes  i 

will  roast  a  young  one,  and  forty  minutes  a  full-  i 
grown  rabbit. 

When  you  lay  it  down,  baste  it  with  butter,  ; 

and  dredge  it  lightly  and  carefully  with  flour,  that  ■ 
you   may    have    it   frothy,    and    of  a   fine    light 

brown.     Wliile  the  rabbit  is  roasting,  boil  its  liver  ■ 

-with  some  parsley;   when  tender,  chop  tliem  toge-  • 

ther  ;  melt  your  butter,  and  divide  the  parsley  j 
and  liver  into  equal  parts,  one  of  which  stir  into 

the  melted  butter,  and  divide  the  other  into  half  a  ■ 

dozen   small  parcels,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  ' 

them.  i 

Obs.  — A  large,  w- ell  grown,  but  young  warren-  ! 

rabbit,  kept  some  time  after  it  has  been  killed,  | 

roasted  with  a  stuffing  in  its  belly,  eats  very  like  j 

a  hare,  to  the  nature  of  which  it  approaches,  in-  ) 

asmuch    it   is    very  nice    nourishing  food    when  ■ 

young,  but  hard  and  unwholesome  when  old.  \ 

\ 

Pheasant      (No.  68.)  ; 

Requires   a  smart  fire,  but   not  a   fierce   one.  \ 

Thirty  minutes  will  roast  a  young  bird  ;  a  full  ] 

grown   pheasant   will    require   forty.      Pick   and  j 

draw  it,  and  cut  a  slit  in  tlie  back  of  the  neck,  i 

and  take  out  the  craw,  but  don't  cut  the  head  off;  i 

wipe  the  inside  of  the  bird  with  a  clean   cloth,  ' 

twist  the  legs  close  to  the  body,  leave  the  feci  on^  j 


ROASTING. 

but  cut  the  toes  off";  turn  the  head  under  the 
wing,  and  skewer  the  wings  close  to  the  back: 
baste  it,  butter  and  froth  it,  &c.,  as  we  have 
given  you  instructions  to  do  in  the  receipt  to 
roast  fowls  and  turkeys. 

Mock  Pheasant.     (No.  69.) 

If  you  have  only  one  pheasant  and  wish  for  a 
companion  for  it,  get  a  fine  young  fov/1  of  as  near 
as  may  be  the  same  size. as  the  bird  to  be  matched, 
truss  with  the  head  on,  turned  exactly  like  the 
pheasant's,  and  dress  it  according  to  the  above 
directions,  and  very  few  persons  will  discover 
which  is  the  pheasant,  and  which  is  the  fowl, 
especially  if  the  latter  has  been  kept  four  or  five 
days. 

P a j^t ridges     (No.  70.) 

Are  cleaned  and  trussed  in  the  same  manner  as 
a  pheasant,  and  the  breast  is  so  plump  it  will  re- 
quire almost  as  much  time  roasting  :  send  up  with 
them  bread  sauce.  No.  321,  and  good  gravy. 

***  {f you  zckh  to  preserve  them  longer  than  you  think  they 
will  keep  good  undressed,  half  roust  them,  and  they  zoill 
keep  two  or  three  days  longer. 

Black  Cock,  (No.  71 .)  Moor  Game,  (No.  72.) 
and  Grouse,  (No.  73.) 

Are  dressed  like  pheasants  and  partridges  :  the 
black  cock  will  take  as  much  time  as  a  pheasant, 
and  the  moor  game  and  grouse  as  the  partridge  : 
d3 


ROASTING. 

send  up  with  them  currant-jelJy  and  fried  bread 
crumbs. 

Wild  Ducks.     (No.  74.) 

For  roasting  a  wild  duck,  you  must  have  a  clear 
brisk  fire  ;  for  it  must  be  browned  upon  the  outside, 
without  being  sodden  within.  To  have  it  well  froth- 
ed and  full  of  gravy  is  the  nicety.  Prepare  the  fire 
by  stirring  and  raking  just  before  it  is  laid  down, 
and  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  will  do  it.  This  is 
the  fashionable  way  ;  but  if  it  is  required  a  little 
more  done,  allow  it  a  few  minutes  more  :  if  it  is 
too  much,  it  will  lose  all  i(s  fine  high  flavour. 

For  the  sauce,  see  ^o,  S38. 

JVidgeons  and  Teal     (No.  75.) 

Are  dressed  exactly  as  the  wild  duck,  only  that 
less  time  is  requisite  for  a  widgeon,  and  still  Icsi 
for  a  teal. 

Woodcock.     (No.  76.) 

Spit  them  on  a  small  bird  spit,  put  them  to  roast 
at  a  clear  fire,  and  lay  a  slice  of  bread  in  the 
drippingpan  under  them  to  catch  the  trail*; 
haste  them  with  butter,  and  froth  them  with  flour; 
lay  the  toast  on  a  hot  dish,  and  the  birds  on  it ; 
pour  some  gocil  beef  gravy  into  the  dish,  and 
send    some    up    in    a    boat  :    about  twenty,  or 

*  This  bird,  it  seems,  has  so  insinuated  itself  into  the  favour 
of  refined  gourmands,  th:it  they  pay  it  the  same  honours  as  the 
grand  Lama,  making  a  ragout  of  its  excrements,  and  devoui'- 
mg  tliem  with  ecstasy. 


KOASTING. 

twenty-five    minutes    will    roast  (hem.     Garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon. 

Sjiipes    (No.  77-) 

Differ  little  from  woodcocks,  unless  in  size  :  they 
are  to  be  dressed  in  the  same  way;  only  they  are, 
according  to  their  smaller  size,  done  in  from  five 
to  ten  minutes  less  time. 

Roast  Pigeons,     (No.  78.) 

AVhen  the  pigeons  arc  trussed  for  roasting"^ 
chop  a  handful  of  green  parsley  very  fine,  season 
it  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  the  belly 
of  each  bird  with  this  mixture.  Roast  them  at  a 
hot  clear  fire,  they  will  be  enougli  in  about  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes  :  send  up  parsley  and  butter  in 
the  dish  under  them,  and  some  in  a  boat. 

Obs,  —  If  the  pigeons  are  fresh,  they  will  this 
way  have  their  full  relish,  for  there  is  no  bird  has 
a  finer  flavour,  but  it  goes  entirely  off  with  a  very 
Ihtle  keeping  ;  nor  is  it  ever  so  well  preserved  as 
by  roasting :  a  little  melted  butter  may  be  put 
into  tlie  dish  with  them,  and  the  gravy  that  runs 
from  them  will  mix  with  it  info  fine  sauce.  Pi- 
geons are  in  tJieir  greatest  perfection  in  September, 
as  there  then  is  the  most  plentiful  and  best  food 
for  them  :  and  the  finest  growth  for  them  is  just 
when  they  are  full  feathered.  Wlien  they  are  in 
the  pen-feathers  they  are  flabby  ;  when  they  are 
full  grown  and  have  flown  some  time,  the}^  are 
hard  ;  just  at  the  period  of  their  growth,  when 
they  are  at  perfection,  and  have  had  no  time  to 
d4 


ROASTING. 

Jiarden,  tliey  are  best ;  their  juices  are  then  in  full 
perfection,  and  the  flesh  in  all  its  delicacy. 

This  wns  the  secret  of  Solomon^  the  famous 
pigeon-feeder  of  Turnham  Green,  who  is  cele- 
brated by  the  poet  Gay, 

"  That  Turnham  Green  which  dainty  pigeons  fed, 
But  feeds  no  more,  for  Solomon  is  deud." 

Pigeons  on  a  poor  iiuafs  spit.     (No.  79.) 

Fill  Uieir  bellies  with  parsley  clean  washed  and 
chopped,  the  livers  minced  tisic,  grated  bread  and 
hard  eg:g,  an  equal  quantity  of  each,  season  it  with 
a  very  little  beaten  mace  or  nutmeg-,  and  pounded 
all  together  with  the  yolk  of  an  e<^^ ;  tie  the  neck 
end  close,  so  that  it  cannot  come  out ;  put  a  skewer 
through  the  legs,  and  have  a  little  iron  on  pur- 
pose with  six  hooks  to  it ;  on  each  hook  hang  a 
pigeon,  fasten  one  end  of  a  string  to  the  chim- 
ney piece,  and  the  other  end  to  the  iron  (which  is 
commonly  called  a  poor  man's  spit,)  flour  them, 
and  baste  them  with  butter,  turn  them  steadily 
and  gently,  and  they  will  roast  very  nicely,  and 
be  full  of  gravy  :  garnish  with  crisp  parsley. 

Ohs.  —  This  is  by  far  the  best  way  of  roasting 
pigeons,  as  it  preserves  their  gravy  ;  when  you 
roast  them  on  a  spit,  much  of  the  gravy  runs  out ; 
if  you  stufl'them  and  broil  them  whole,  you  can- 
not save  the  gravy  so  well,  though  they  are  very 
good  with  parsley  and  butter  in  the  dish,  or  split 
and  broiled  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Larks,  and  other  small  Birds,    (No.  80.) 

These  delicate  little  birds  are  in  high  season  in 
November.     When  they  are  picked,  gutted,  and 


ROASTING. 

cleaned,  truss  them  with  a  leaf  of  red  sage  to  every 
lark  between  tlie  joints  of  the  legs;  beat  up  the 
yolk  of  an  ei^g-,  and  with  a  feather  egg  the  larks, 
and  then  sprinkle  them  well  with  bread  crumbs  ; 
cut  some  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon  about  three 
inches  long  and  an  inch  broad  ;  lay  tJie  birds  in 
a  row,  side  by  side,  with  a  piece  of  bacon  between 
every  two  larks  ;  spit  them  on  a  lark  spit,  which 
lie  on  to  a  larger  spit,  having  a  slice  of  bacon  on 
both  the  outisides  of  the  larks  ;  baste  them  well 
while  they  are  roasting  :  for  the  sauce,  fry  some 
grated  bread  crisped  in  butter,  and  set  it  to  drain 
before  the  fire  that  it  may  harden  :  serve  the 
crumbs  under  the  larks  when  you  dish  them,  and 
garnish  them  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Wheat  Ears.     (No.  81.) 

These  birds  are  dressed  in  the  same  way  as 
larks. 

Lobster,    (No.  82.) 

See  receipt  for  boiling.  No.  176. 
We  give  no  receipt  for  roasting  lobster,  being 
of  opinion  with  Dr.  King,  that 

"  By  roasting  that  which  our  forefathers  boiled, 
And  boiling  what  they  roasted,  much  is  spoiled." 


D  5 


FRYING. 

the  pan  as  soon  as  the  fat  is  melted ;  as  less  fat  i^ 
wanted,  it  gets  hot  so  much  sooner,  they  would  be 
burnt  before  they  are  done  enough. 

Always  have  a  good  light  to  fry  by,  that  you 
may  see  when  you  have  got  the  right  colour :  a 
lainp  fixed  on  a  stem  with  a  loaded  foot,  that  has 
an  arm  which  will  lengthen  out,  and  slide  up  and 
down  like  a  reading  candlestick,  is  a  most  useful 
appendage  to  a  kitchen  fire-place^  which  are  sel- 
dom light  enough  for  the  nicer  operations  of 
cookery.  After  all,  if  you  do  not  drain  the  fat 
well  from  what  you  have  fried,  your  cooking  will 
do  you  no  credit,  especially  those  things  that  are 
full  dressed  in  bread  crumbs. 

To  fry  fish  in  general,  see  the  receipt  io  fry 
soles,  which  is  the  only  circumstantial  account  of 
this  process  that  has  yet  been  printed,  if  the  cook 
will  study  it  with  a  little  attention,  she  will  soon 
learn  to  fry  fish  in  the  utmost  perfection. 


FRYING. 


To  clarify  Drippings,     (No.  83.) 

Put  your  drippings  into  a  clean  saucepan  over 
a  clear  fire  ;  when  it  is  just  going  to  boil,  take  it 
ofi',  and  pour  them  into  a  pan  half  full  of  hot 
water;  set  it  in  a  cool  place  till  the  next  day, 
you  will  find  the  drippings  at  the  top  of  the 
water  as  clean  and  white  as  can  be. 

Most  people  put  the  drippings  into  cold  water, 
but  that  sets  them  at  once,  and  the  foul  parts  will 
not  be  deposited  half  so  well. 

Ohs.  —  Sweet  and  well  cleansed  drippings,  and 
the  fat  skimmings  of  the  broth  pot,  will  baste  every 
thing  as  well  as  butter,  except  game  and  poultry, 
and  should  supply  the  place  of  butter  for  common 
fries,  and  for  frying  most  things  are  equal,  if  not 
superior  to  lard. 

To  melt  Suet  to  fry  with,    (No.  84.) 

Cut  beef  or  mutton  suet  into  small  thin  slices, 
put  it  into  a  thick  and  well  tinned  saucepan,  and 
set  it  over  a  very  slow  stove,  or  in  an  oven,  till  it 
is  all  melted  but  the  skins ;  strain  it  into  a  clean 
brown  pan  through  a  hair  sieve.  When  quite  cold, 
tie  a  paper  over  it  and  keep  it  for  use.  Hogslard 
is  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Ohs.  —  The  waste  occasioned  by  the  present 


FRYING. 

fashion  of  feeding  cattle  till  tlicy  are  almost  as 
mnch  fU  as  lean,  may,  by  <^ood  management,  be 
in  some  measure  prevented,  by  cutting-  off  the  su- 
perfluous suet,  and  preparing  it  as  above,  or  make 
puddings  of  it. 

Rump  Steaks  fried.  (No.  85.) 

Let  the  steaks  be  cut  rather  thinner  than  for 
broiling,  put  some  butter  into  an  iron  fryingp<^n, 
when  it  is  hot  lay  in  the  steaks,  and  keep  turning 
them  till  they  are  done  enough  ;  lay  them  in  a  hot 
dish  before  the  fire ;  then  put  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  into  the  fryingpan  with  half  a  pint  of  hot 
■water,  a  tablespoonful  of  ale,  or  small  beer,  that 
is  neither  bitter  nor  stale,  a  tablespoonful  of 
mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  black  pepper ;  rub 
and  boil  up  together  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  and 
run  the  sauce  through  a  hair  sieve  over  the  steaks. 

Ohs.  —  We  like  this  way  of  dressing  a  beef 
steak  much  better  than  broiling,  as  all  the  gravy 
is  preserved,  and  the  meat  eats  more  tender  and  is 
more  equally  dressed. 

Beef  Steaks  and  Onions.  (No.  86.) 

Fry  (he  steaks  according  to  the  direciions  given 
in  the  preceding  receipt;  lay  them  on  a  dish  io 
keep  hot :  have  ready  some  onions  jsliccd  as  thin  as 
possible,  {vy  them  brown  in  the  same  pan  the  steaks 
Avere  fried  in;  when  done,  lake  them  up  with  a 
fish  slice,  and  lay  them  on  the  steaks,  then  finish 
the  sauce  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  or  prepare 
the  onion  sauce  as  No.  299. 


FRYING. 

Sausages.  (No.  87.) 

To  prevent  their  bursting  in  the  fryirigpan, 
lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,  pour  boiling-  wafer  over 
them,  and  let  them  be  till  they  are  cold  ;  then 
prick  them  with  a  fork,  put  tliem  into  a  fry- 
ingpan,  and  shake  them  about  till  they  are  well 
browned. 

No  butter  or  lard,  &c.  is  required  ;  putting  them 
in  the  boiling  water  prevents  the  skins^  from 
cracking. 

Obs.  —  Poached  eggs,  pease-pudding,  or  fried 
cabbage  sent  up  with  them,  are  excellent  ac- 
companiments. 

Sweetbreads  full  dressed.    (No.  88.) 

Parboil  them,  let  them  g<^i  cold,  and  then  cut 
them  in  pieces  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick, 
dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  an  ^%%^  then  in  tine  bread 
crumbs,  with  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  very  little 
nutmeg  ;  put  some  fresh  butter  into  a  fryingpan  ; 
when  it  boils,  put  in  the  sweetbreads,  and  fry  them 
a  fine  brown.  For  sauce,  mushroom  catsup  and 
melted  butter. 

Sweetbreads  plain.    (No.  89.) 

Parboil  them,  slice  them  as  before,  and  fry 
them  a  delicate  brown,  take  care  to  drain  the 
fat  well  from  them,  and  garnish  them  with 
slices  of  lemon,  and  sprigs  of  parsley  or  chervil. 
Or  when  parboiled,  &c.,  dip  them  in  the  fol- 
lowing batter  :  an  ounce  of  flour,  an  ^gg,  a  table- 


FRYING. 

spoonful  of  milk,  and  the  same  of  table  beer,  a 
little  white  pepper  and  salt  beaten  tog^ether  with 
a  wooden  spoon  for  ten  minutes  :  fry  them  a  nice 
brown,  put  a  little  catsup  and  butter  in  the  dish, 
and  garnish  it  with  fried  parsley. 

%*  Take  care  to  have  a  fresh  szveeibread ;  for  it  spoils 
almost  sooner  than  any  thing,  and  should  he  parboiled  as 
soon  as  it  comes  in.  This  is  called  blanching,  or  setting  it. 
Mutton  kidneys  may  be  broiled  and  sent  up  with  the  szceet- 
breads. 

Veal  Cutlets,    (No.  90.) 

Let  your  cutlets  be  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
trim  them,  and  flatten  them  with  a  cleaver  ;  you 
may  fry  them  in  fresh  butter,  or  good  beef  drip- 
ping ;  or  first  fry  some  bacon,  and  the  fat  of  that 
mehing  will  leave  enough  in  the  pan  to  fry  your 
veal :  when  brown  on  one  side,  turn  them  and  do 
the  other;  or  if  the  fire  is  very  fierce,  they  must 
change  sides  oftener.  The  time  they  will  take 
depends  on  the  thickness  of  the  cutlet  and  the 
heat  of  the  fire  :  half  an  incli  tliick  will  take  about 
fifteen  minutes.  Put  the  trimmings  into  a  «tew- 
pan  with  a  pint  of  water,  an  onion,  a  roll  of  lemon 
peel,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  pars- 
ley ;  let  it  stew  over  a  slow  fire  an  hour,  then 
strain  it,  and  put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a 
stewpan  ;  as  soon  as  it  is  melted,  mix  with  it  a 
tablespoon ful  of  flour,  stew  it  over  the  fire  a  few 
minutes,  then  add  the  gravy  by  degrees  till  it  is 
all  mixed,  boil  it  up  for  five  minutes,  and  strain  it 
through  a  tarn  mis  sieve,  and  put  it  to  the  cutlets  : 
you  may  add  some  browning,  catsup,  or  lemon 
pickle,  &c.  to  it. 


FRYING. 

Veal  Cutlets  full  dressed,    (No.  91.) 

Cut  your  veal  into  pieces  a  little  bigger  than  a 
crown  piece,  chop  fine,  or,  what  is  better,  take  a 
little  of  the  dried  powder  of  parsley,  lemon  i\\ym& 
(savoury  or  marjoram),  lemon  peel  a  little  grated, 
nutmeg  and  mace,  pepper  and  salt ;  rub  these 
well  together  in  a  mortar,  beat  up  the  yolk  and 
white  of  an  Qg^  together  on  a  plate,  dip  the  cutlets 
in  it,  and  then  strew  the  seasoning  over  them, 
dip  them  again  in  the  egg^  and  then  strew  some 
fine  bread  crumbs  over  them,  put  a  little  butter 
into  a  cold  fryingpan  over  a  slow  fire,  and  fry 
them  a  nice  brown.  Make  gravy  as  in  the  last 
receipt. 

Lamb,  or  Mutton  Chops,    (No.  92.) 
Are  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

Pork  Chops,    (No.  93.) 

Cut  as  many  chops  from  the  loin  as  you  want, 
about  half  an  inch  thick  ;  trim  them  neatly ;  put  a 
fryingpan  on  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  is  hot,  put  ia 
your  chops,  turning  them  often  till  brown  all  over, 
they  will  be  enough  in  fifteen  minutes  :  take  one 
upon  a  plate  and  try  it ;  if  done,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  For  gravt/,  keep  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  fat  in  the  pan  you  fried  the  chops 
in,  put  to  it  about  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  rub  it 
well  together  over  the  fire,  as  soon  as  it  looks  a 
little    brown  put  a  teacupful   of  water,    season 


FRYING 


Vritb  sal(,  give  it  a  boil  up,  strain  through  a  hair 
sieve  to  your  chops,  or  you  may  send  them  up  with 
their  own  gravy  in  the  dish. 

Obs.  —  A  little  powdered  sage,  &c.,  strewed 
over  them,  will  give  them  a  nice  relish.  See 
No.  31. 


BROILING. 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS- 


Cleanliness  is  extremely  essential  in  this  mode 
of  cookery.  Keep  your  gridiron  quite  clean  be- 
tween the  bars,  and  bright  on  the  top ;  and  when 
it  is  hot,  wipe  it  well  with  a  linen  cloth  :  just 
before  you  use  it,  rub  the  bars  with  clean  mutton 
suet,  which  will  prevent  the  meat  from  being 
marked  by  the  gridiron;  take  care  to  prepare  your 
fire  in  time,  so  that  it  may  burn  \ery  clear;  the 
briskness  and  clearness  of  the  fire  are  indispensable. 
Very  frequent  turning  is  necessary  to  some  things, 
and  very  little  to  others ;  be  very  attentive  to 
watch  the  moment  any  thing  is  done ;  never  hasten 
in  any  manner  any  thing  that  is  broiling,  lest  yon 
make  smoke  and  spoil  it.  Let  the  bars  of  the 
gridiron  be  all  hot  through,  but  yei  not  burning 
hot  upon  the  surface  :  this  is  the  perfect  and  fine 
condition  of  the  gridiron  ;  for  if  it  is  hastily 
heated,  the  bars  wiQ  be  hot  enough  to  scorch  the 
things  laid  on  them  on  the  outside,  as  ihc  bars 


BRO  FLING. 

must  always  keep  away  so  much  of  the  heat  as 
their  breadth  covers  :  it  is  absolutely  necessary 
they  should  be  thoroughly  hot  before  the  thing 
to  be  cooked  be  laid  on  them.  The  bars  of 
gridirons  should  be  made  concave,  terminating  in 
a  trough  to  catch  the  gravy ;  and  also  keep  the 
fat  from  dropping  into  the  tire  and  making  a 
smoke,  which  will  spoil  your  broil.  The  upright 
gridirons  are  the  best,  as  they  can  be  used  at  any 
fire  without  fear  of  smoke,  and  all  the  gravy  is 
preserved. 


BROILING. 


Beefsteaks^.     (No.  94.) 

Those  who  are  nice  about  steaks  never  attempt 
to  have  them  except  in  weather  that  permits  the 
meat  to  be  hung  till  it  is  tender.  The  best  steaks 
are  those  cut  from  the  middle  of  the  rump,  that 
has  been  killed  at  least  four  days,  when  they  can 
be  cut  about  six  inches  long,  four  inches  wide, 
and  half  an  inch  thick,  let  them  be  beaten  with  a 
chopper,  or  rolling-pin,  to  make  them  tender; 
take  care  to  have  a  very  clear  brisk  fire,  and 
throw  a  little  salt  on  it,  to  take  off  tlie  sulphur, 
make  the  gridiron  hot,  and  set  it  slanting,  to  pre- 
vent the  fat  from  dropping  into  the  lire,  and 
making  a  smoke.  For  want  of  these  little  atten- 
tions, this  very  common  dish,  which  every  body 
is  supposed  capable  of  dressing,  seldom  comes  to 
table  in  perfection. 

Put  a  tablcspoonful  of  catsup  and  a  little 
minced  shalot  into  a  dish  before  the  fire,  while 
you  broil  the  steak;  turn  it  ofteji,  to  keep  the 
gravy  in  :  it  will  be  done  in  ten  minutes  ;  rub  a 
bit  of  butter  over  it,  and  send  it  up  garnished  with 
horseradish.     No,  356. 


*  The  season  for  these  is  from  the  29th  of  Sept.  to  the 
$5th  of  March. 


BROILING. 

Kidneys.     (No.  9o) 

Cut  the  kidneys  through  the  long  ^vay.  score, 
them,  and  broil  them  over  a  very  clear  tire,  turn- 
ing tliem  often  till  they  are  done,  which  will  take 
about  ten  minutes,  if  the  fire  is  brisk.  Lay  tlieni 
on  the  dish,  sprinkle  them  with  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  and  rub  a  piece  of  butter  over  them,  or 
fry  Ihem  in  butter,  and  make  gravy  for  tliem  in 
the  pan,  (after  you  have  taken  out  the  kidneys,) 
by  putting  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  ;  as  soon  as  it 
looks  brown,  put  in  as  much  water  as  will  make 
gravy  for  your  kidneys :  they  take  five  minutes 
more  to  fry  than  to  broil. 

The  Inside  of  a  Sirloin  of  Beef,     (No.  96) 

Cut  out  the  inside  of  a  sirloin  of  beef  close  to 
the  bone,  in  steaks  nearly  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick  ;  take  off  all  the  skins,  and  season  it  w  ith  pep- 
per and  salt,  then  warm  an  ounce  of  butter  on  a 
plate,  just  enough  to  melt  it  a  little,  but  not  to 
make  it  into  a  thin  oil,  mix  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
witli  it,  dip  the  steaks  in  on  botli  sides,  and  then 
in  fine  bread  crumbs;  lay  them  on  a  clean  gridiron, 
over  a  clear  slow  fire;  if  the  fire  is  sharp,  the  bread 
crumbs  will  be  burnt  before  the  beef  is  done : 
when  you  turn  them,  take  them  off  the  fire,  and 
lay  them  on  a  dish  to  catch  the  gravy  :  when  they 
are  dressed,  put  them  on  a  hot  dish  with  their  own 
gravy,  and  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup. 

A  Fowl  or  Chicken.     (No.  97.) 

Pick  and  truss  a  fowl  the  same  as  for  boiling,  cut 
it  open  down  the  back,  wipe  the  inside  clean  with  a 


BROlLiXC. 

cloth,  season  it  with  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt, 
and  lay  it  on  a  gridiron  over  a  very  clear  slow  fire, 
with  the  inside  of  the  fowl  towards  the  fire  ;  turn 
it  in  about  ten  minutes,  and  it  will  take  about 
ten  minutes  more  to  broil  it  till  it  is  a  fine  brown. 
Lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  with  mushroom  sauce 
thrown  over  it,  or  melted  butter  flavoured  with 
mushroom  catsup  or  cavice :  garnish  with  the 
liver  and  the  gizzard,  slit  and  notched,  and  sea- 
soned with  pepper  and  salt,  and  broiled  nicely 
brown,  and  some  slices  of  lemon.  For  sauce,  see 
No.  355. 

Pigeo7is.     (No.  98.) 

Clean  them  well,  split  them  down  the  backs, 
and  pepper  and  salt  them ;  broil  them  over  a 
clear  slow  fire  ;  turn  them  often,  and  put  a  litde 
butter  on  them  :  when  they  are  done,  pour  over 
them,  either  stewed  or  pickled  mushrooms,  and 
melted  butter. 

Garnish  with  fried  sippets ;  or,  when  the 
pigeons  are  trussed  as  for  boiling,  flat  them  with  a 
cleaver,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  skin,  or  the 
backs,  or  breasts ;  season  them  with  pepper  and 
salt,  dip  them  in  melted  butter,  and  dredge  them 
well  with  grated  bread,  then  lay  them  on  the 
gridiron,  and  turn  them  frequently  :  if  your  fire  is 
not  very  clear,  lay  them  on  a  sheet  of  paper  well 
buttered,  to  keep  them  from  getting  smoked. 

Same  sauce  as  in  the  preceding  receipt. 


VEGETABLES. 

GENERAL    OBSERVATIONS. 


There  is  no  article  in  -which  the  diiference 
between  an  elegant  and  an  ordinary  table  is  more 
seen,  than  in  the  dressing  of  greens  :  they  may  be 
the  same  at  one  place  as  at  another  ;  however, 
their  look  and  taste  are  extremely  different,  and 
this  chiefly  from  the  careless  way  in  which  they 
are  cooked.-  As  to  the  quality  of  vegetables, 
freshness  is  their  only  value  and  excellence ; 
the  eye  easily  discovers  if  they  have  been 
kept  too  long  ;  they  soon  lose  their  beauty 
in  all  respects.  Roots,  greens,  &c.  and  the 
various  productions  of  the  garden,  when  first 
gathered,  are  plump  and  firm,  and  have  a  fra- 
grant freshness,  that  no  art  can  give  them  again, 
-when  they  have  lost  it  by  being  kept  too  long, 
though  it  will  revive  them  a  little  to  put  them 
into  cold  spring  water  for  some  time.  They  are 
in  greatest  perfection  just  before  they  come  to 
their  full  growth.     Soft  water  will  preserve  the 


VE<JETABLES. 

gieen  colour  best ;  if  you  have  only  liaid  water, 
put  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  of  wormwood. 

Take  care  to  wash  and  cleanse  them  from  dust, 
dirt,  and  insects:  this  requires  ^rcat  attention: 
pick  off  all  the  outside  leaves,  and  trim  them 
nicely,  and  lay  them  in  a  pan  of  clean  water  far 
an  hour  before  you  dress  them.  They  should 
always  be  boiled  in  a  saucepan  by  themselves^ 
and  have  plenty  of  water  :  if  meat  is  boiled  with 
them  in  the  same  pot,  they  spoil  the  look  and 
taste  of  each  other. 

The  water  must  always  boil  before  you  put  in 
what  you  intend  to  boil  in  it,  which  should  boil 
briskl}^,  in  an  open  saucepan  ;  the  quicker  they 
boil,  the  greener  they  will  be  ;  and  when  the 
vegetables  sink,  they  are  generally  done  enough, 
if  the  water  has  been  kept  constantly  boiling ; 
but  if  it  has  not,  they  will  lose  their  colour. 
Take  them  up  immediately,  or  they  will  lose  their 
colour  and  goodness.  Drain  the  water  from  them 
thoroughly  before  you  send  them  to  table.  This 
humble  branch  of  cookery  requires  very  constant 
attention :  if  vegetables  are  too  long  on  the  fire, 
they  lose  all  their  beauty  and  flavour,  and  if  they 
are  not  thoroughly  boiled  tender,  they  are  tre- 
mendously indigestible,  and  much  more  trouble- 
some   to    the    stomach    than    underdone    meats* 

£ 


VEGETABLES. 

Above  all,  take  care  your  vegetables  are  fresh  ;  for 
as  the  fishmonger  often  suffers  for  the  sins  of  the 
cook,  so  the  cook  often  gets  undeservedly  blamed 
for  not  well  dressing  vegetables,  which,  in  this 
metropolis,  are  often  kept  so  long,  that  no  art  can 
make  them  either  look  or  eat  well. 


VEGETABLES. 


Potatoes.    (No.  102.) 

Although  this  most  useful  vegetable  is  dressed 
every  day,  in  almost  every  family,  it  is  very  sel- 
dom well  prepared ;  and  for  one  plate  of  potatoes 
that  comes  to  table  as  it  should,  ten  are  spoiled. 

Be  careful  in  your  choice  of  potatoes  ;  no  vege- 
table varies  so  much  in  quality.  The  reddish 
kind  are  better  than  the  white,  but  the  yellowish 
looking  ones  are  generally  the  best.  Choose  them 
of  a  moderate  size,  free  from  all  blemishes,  and 
fresh,  and  buy  them  in  the  mould  ;  they  should 
not  be  wetted  till  they  are  cleaned  to  boil.  Peel  and 
wash  them,  fill  the  saucepan  half  full  of  potatoes 
of  equal  size*,  and  put  to  them  as  much  cold  water 
as  will  cover  them  about  an  inch  :  most  boiled  things 
are  spoiled  by  having  too  little  water,  but  potatoes 
are  commonly  spoiled  by  too  much  :  they  must 
merely  be  covered,  and  a  little  allowed  for  waste 
in  boiling,  so  that  they  may  be  covered  at  last. 

Set  them  on  a  moderate  fire  till  they  boil,  then 
take  them  off,  and  set  them  by  the  side  of  the  fire 
to  boil  gently  (the  slower  the  better)  till  they  are 
soft  enough  to  admit  a  fork,  (there  is  no  depend- 
ence on  the  usual  test  of  their  cracking  or  break- 
ing, which,  if  they  are  boiled  fast,  some  potatoes 
will  do  when  they  are  not  half  done,  and  tJie  in- 
side is  quite  hard,)  then  pour  the  water  from 
them,  uncover  the  saucepan,  and  set  it  by  the  side 

*  Or  the  small  ones  will  be  done  to  pieces  before  the  lai^e 
ones  are  boiled  enough. 

e2 


VEGETABLES. 

of  the  fire  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  that  their 
superfluous  moisture  may  evaporate,  and  they  will 
become  perfectly  dry  and  mealy. 

This  method  of  managincr  potatoes  is  in  every 
respect  superior  to  steaming  them;  they  are  dress- 
ed in  half  the  time,  and  will  retain  no  moisture. 

Obs.  —  There  are  so  many  different  sorts  and 
sizes  of  potatoes,  it  is  impossible  to  say  how  long 
they  will  take  doing;  the  best  way  is  to  try  them 
"with  a  fork.  Moderate  sized  potatoes  will  gene- 
rally be  enough  in  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Potatoes  boiled  and  broiled,     (No.  103.) 

Dress  your  potatoes  exactly  as  before  directed, 
put  them  on  a  gridiron  over  a  very  clear,  brisk 
fire;  turn  them  as  they  brown,  till  they  are  done 
all  over,  and  send  them  up  dry,  with  melted  but- 
ter in  a  cup. 

Potatoes  fried  in  slices,     (No.  104.) 

Peel  large  potatoes,  and  slice  them  the  thick- 
ness of  a  two- penny  piece  ;  dry  them  well  in  a 
clean  cloth,  flour  them,  and  fry  them  in  lard. 
Take  care  that  your  lard  and  fryingpan  are  quite 
clean;  put  it  on  a  quick  fire,  watch  it,  and  as 
soon  as  it  boils,  and  the  lard  is  still,  put  in  the 
slices  of  potatoe,  and  keep  moving  them  till  they 
are  crisp ;  take  them  up  and  lay  them  to  drain  on 
a  sieve,  send  them  up  with  a  very  little  salt  sprink- 
led over  th€m. 

Potatoes  fried  whole,     (No.  105.) 

When  boiled  as  per  the  first  receipt,  put  them 


VEGETABLES. 

into  a  stewpan  with  some  nice  clean  beef  drip- 
pings,  shake  them  about  often  for  fear  of  burning 
till  they  arc  of  a  fine  brown,  and  crisp  :  drain  theni 
well  from  the  fat,  and  send  them  up. 

Ohs.  —  It  will  be  an  elegant  improvement  to 
tlie  three  last  receipts,  previous  to  frying  or 
broiling  the  potatoes,  to  dip  them  in  the  yolk  of 
an  Qggj  and  then  in  fine  sifted  bread  crumbs. 

To  mash  Potatoes,     (No.  106.) 

When  your  potatoes  are  boiled,  drain  and  dry 
them  perfectly,  and  rub  them  through  a  cullen- 
der, or,  what  is  still  better,  a  coar&e  hair  sieve,  into  a 
clean  stewpan  :  to  a  pound  of  potatoes  put  about 
half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  milk;  mix  them  well  together,  and  put  them 
by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep  warm  ;  if  you  put 
them  too  near  they  will  get  a  bad  taste. 

Ohs.- — After  Lady-day,  when  the  potatoes  are 
getting  old  and  specky,  this  is  the  best  way  of 
dressing  them. 

Mash  Potatoes  with  Onions,     (No.  107.) 

Prepare  some  boiled  onions  by  putting  them 
through  a  sieve,  and  mixing  them  with  the  pota- 
toes. In  proportioning  the  onions  to  the  potatoes, 
you  will  be  guided  by  your  wish  to  have  more  or 
less  of  ^heir  flavour. 

Escalloped  Potatoes.     (No.  108.) 

Mash   the  potatoes   as   before  directed ;    then- 
have  some  nice  scollop  shells,  very  clean,  and 
e3 


VEGETABLES. 

well  biiUered  ;  put  in  your  potatoes,  make  them 
smooth  at  the  top,  score  them  across  with  a  knife, 
strew  a  few  fine  bread  crumbs  on  them,  and 
sprinkle  them  with  a  paste  brush  with  a  few  drops'; 
of  mehed  butter,  and  set  them  in  a  Dutch  oven; 
when  they  are  browned  on  the  top,  take  them  care- 
fnlly  out  of  tlie  shells  and  brown  the  other  side, 
if  you  have  no  scollop  shells,  put  thcni  into  tea- 
cups. 

Roast  Potatoes.     (No.  109.) 

Wash  and  dry  your  potatoes,  put  them  in  a  tin 
Dutch  oven,  or  cheese  toaster ;  take  care  not  to 
put  them  too  near  at  first,  or  they  will  get  burnt  on 
the  outside  before  they  are  warmed  through.  Large 
potatoes  will  require  two  hours  to  roast  them. 

Roast  Potatoes  imder  Meat.    (No,  1 10.) 

Peel  and  wash  large  potatoes,  put  them  on  the 
fire  in  cold  water,  and  let  them  boil  till  they  are 
half  done ;  drain  the  water  from  them,  and  put 
them  into  an  earthen  dish,  or  small  tin  pan:  set 
them  under  the  meat  that  is  roasting,  and  baste 
them  with  some  of  the  drippings  ;  when  they  are 
browned  on  one  side,  turn  (hern  and  brown  them 
all  over ;  send  them  up  round  the  meat,  or  in  a 
small  dish. 

Potatoe  Balls.    (No.  111.) 

Mix  mashed  potatoes  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
roll  them  into  balls,  flour  them,  and  fry  them  in 
clean  drippings.     Brown  them  in  a  Dutch  oven. 


VEGETABLES. 

Savoury  Potatoe  Balls    (No.  1 12.) 

Are  made  by  adding  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
(grated  ham  to  a  pound  of  mashed  potatoes  with 
the  yolk  of  a  couple  of  eggs,  as  in  the  last  receipt. 

Obs.  —  They  are  an  agreeable  relish  to  veal, 
and  make  a  good  supper  dish. 

Casserole  of  Potatoes,     (No.  113.) 

Peel,  wash,  and  boil  your  potatoes  till  they  are 
soft  enough  to  mash  ;  drain  and  dry  them  well, 
then  mash  them  till  they  arc  very  fine;  season  with 
a  little  salt,  some  butter  and  milk  ;  make  a  wall 
of  about  three  inches  high  and  an  inch  and  a 
half  thick  all  round  the  dish;  set  it  in  a  Dutch 
oven  till  it  is  of  a  fine  light  brown  colour. 

Fill  the  middle  with  stewed  rump  steaks,  broiled 
mutton,  or  lamb  chops,  or  harrico  mutton,  or  pork 
chops. 

Potatoe  Snozv.     (No.  1 14.) 

Clioose  those  that  are  free  from  spots,  and  the 
whitest  you  can  pick  out ;  put  them  on  to  boil  in 
cold  water,  and  wlien  they  begin  to  crack,  strain 
the  water  from  them,  and  put  them  into  a  clean 
stewpau  by  the  side  of  the  fire  till  they  arc  quite 
dry  and  fall  to  pieces ;  rub  them  through  a  sieve 
on  the  dish  they  are  to  be  sent  up  in,  and  do  not 
disturb  them  afterwards. 

To  dress  Watery  Potatoes,     (No.  115.) 

Wash  the  potatoes  clean,  and  put  them  into  a- 
E  4 


VEGETABLES. 

closely  covered  pot,  without  any  water,  on  a  slow 
fire;  the  heat  very  soon  draws  out  sufficient 
water  to  stew  them  in,  and  the  potatoes  so 
manaocd  are  dry  and  mealy,  though  the  same 
boiled  in  the  common  way  are  hardly  eatable. 

A'^ew  Potatoes,     (No.  1 16.) 

The  best  way  to  clean  new  potatoes  when  they 
are  too  young  to  peel,  is  to  rub  tliem  with  a  coarse 
cloth  or  a  flannel,  or  scrubbing  brush  ;  and  pro- 
ceed as  in  the  first  receipt  to  boil  potatoes. 

Jerusalem  Artichokes     (No.  117.) 

Are  boiled  in  the  same  manner  as  potatoes,  and 
dressed  in  the  various  ways  we  have  just  before 
directed  for  potatoes. 

Cabbage.     (No.  118.) 

Pick  them  very  carefully  clean,  and  wash  them 
thoroughly,  and  after  washing,  look  them  over 
carefully  again ;  quarter  them  if  you  please,  if 
they  are  very  large.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan 
with  plenty  of  boiling  water ;  if  any  scum  rises, 
take  it  off,  put  a  large  spoonful  of  salt  into  the 
saucepan,  and  boil  them  till  the  stalks  feel  tender. 
A  young  cabbage  will  take  about  twenty  minutes, 
when  full  grown,  half  an  hour  :  see  that  they  are 
well  covered  with  water  all  the  time,  and  that  no 
smoke  or  dirt  arises  from  stirring  the  fire.  By  this 
management,  they  will  look  as  beautiful  when 
dressed,  as  they  did  when  growing. 


VEGETABLE? 

Boiled  Cabbage  fried,     (No.  1190 
See  receipt  for  Bubble  and  Squeak, 

Savoys     (No.  120.) 

Are  boiled  in  the  same  manner,  but  always 
quarter  them  when  you  send  them  to  table. 

Sprouts  and  young  Greens.    (No.  121.) 

The  receipt  we  hav^e  written  for  cabbages  will 
answer  as  well  for  sprouts,  only  ihcy  will  be  boiled 
enough  in  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 


Spinach.     (No.  122.)  ■ 

Spinach  should  be  picked  a  leaf  at  a  time,  and  ; 

washed  in  three  or  four  waters  :   when   perfectly  , 

clean,  lay  it  on  a  sieve,  or  cullender,  to  drain  the  ' 

water  from  it.     Put  a  large  saucepan  on  the  fire  ; 

three  parts  tilled  with  water  ;  when  it  boils,  put  a  I 

small  handful  of  salt  to  it,  with  the  spinach,  let  it  \ 

boil  as  quick  as  possible  till  quite  tender ;  it  will  i 

be  enough  in  about  ien  ininutes,  if  boiled  in  plenty  : 
of  water;   if  the  spinach  is  a  liltle  old,  give  it  a 

couple  of  m-inutes  longer.     Wlien  done  strain  it  ^ 

on  the  back  of  a  sieve,  squeeze  it  dry  with  a  plate,  '■ 
or  between  two  trenchers,  chop  it  fine,  and  put  it 

into  a  stewpan  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  ; 

salt ;  a  little  cream  is  a  great  improvement    Spread  ^ 

it  in  a  dish,  and  cut  it  into  squares  of  proper  size  ■ 
to  help  at  table. 

Ohs.  —  A  little  grated  nutmeg  is  a  favourite  ad-  i 

E  5  i 


VEGETABLES. 

tlition  with  some  cooks,  and  is  added  \\licn  you 
stir  it  up  in  the  stewpan  with  the  butter. 

Asparagus.     (No.  123.) 

Set  a  pan  of  cold  water  upon  the  table,  and  a 
stewpan  with  plenty  of  water  in  it  on  the  fire; 
sprinkle  a  handful  of  salt  into  it,  and  while  it  is 
heating  prepare  your  asparagus.  Scrape  all  the 
stalks  till  they  are  perfectly  clean,  throw  them 
into  the  pan  of  cold  water  as  you  scrape  them  ; 
when  they  are  all  done,  tie  them  up  in  little  bun- 
dles, with  bass  if  you  can  get  i(,  or  tape;  string 
cuts  tliem  to  pieces  :  cut  off  the  stalks  at  the  bot- 
tom that  they  may  be  all  of  a  length,  leaving  just 
enough  to  serve  as  a  handle  for  the  green  part; 
put  them  on  when  the  water  boils ;  when  they  arc 
tender  at  the  stalk,  which  will  be  in  about  ten 
minutes,  they  are  done  enough.  Great  care  must 
be  taken  to  watch  the  exact  time  of  their  becom- 
ing tender,  and  take  them  up  just  at  that  instant, 
and  they  will  have  their  true  flavour  and  colour, 
but  a  minute  or  two  more  boiling  destroys  both. 

While  the  asparagus  are  boiling,  toast  a  round 
of  a  quartern  loaf  about  half  an  inch  thick,  brown 
it  delicately  on  both  sides,  dip  it  lightly  in  the 
liquor  of  the  asparagus,  and  lay  it  in  the  middle 
of  a  dish  ;  melt  some  butter,  then  lay  in  the  aspa- 
ragus upon  the  toast  all  round  the  dish,  with  the 
ends  of  the  stalks  outwards.  Pour  no  butter  over 
them,  but  send  it  up  in  a  boat.  To  the  common 
melted  butterV^on  may  add  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  a  (easpoonfiil  of  vinegar,  and  the  yolk  of  a 
couple  of  eggs,  beat  up,  and  carefully  mixed  to 
keep  them  from  curdling. 


VEGETABLES. 

Sea  Kail    (No.  124.) 

Is  tied  up  in  bundles,  and  dressed  exactly  ia 
the  same  way  as  asparagus. 

Cauliflower.    (No.  125.) 

Cboose  those  that  are  close  and  white,  trim  off 
the  outside  leaves,  cut  the  stalk  off  flat  at  the  bot- 
tom, let  them  lie  in  salt  and  water  an  hour  before 
you  boil  them,  put  them  into  boiling  water  with  a 
handful  of  salt  in  it,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  till  done, 
which  a  small  one  will  be  in  fifteen,  a  very  large 
one  in  twenty  minutes,  and  take  them  up  care- 
fully with  a  slice. 

Brocoll    (No.  12G.) 

The  great  art  in  dressing  brocoli  is,  that  it  be 
not  overboiled,  and  yet  boiled  enough.  Set  a  pan 
of  clean  cold  water  on  the  table,  and  a  saucepan 
on  the  fire  with  plenty  of  water,  and  a  handful  of 
salt  in  it :  the  brocoli  is  prepared  by  stripping 
off  all  the  side  shoots,  leaving  the  top:  peel  oil' 
the  skin  of  the  stalk  with  a  knife,  cut  it  off  at  the 
bottom,  and  put  them  into  the  pan  of  cold  water  : 
when  the  water  in  the  stew  pan  boils,  and  all  the 
brocoli  is  ready,  put  it  in,  let  it  boil  briskly  till  the 
stalks  feel  tender,  and  take  it  up  with  a  slice,  that 
you  may  not  break  it ;  let  it  drain,  and  serve  up: 
if  some  of  the  heads  of  brocoli  are  much  bigger 
than  the  others,  put  them  on  to  Jiipil  first,  so  that 
they  may  get  all  done  together.  *^8^'" 

Ohs. — It  makes  a  nice  supper  dish  served 
upon  a  toast,  like  asparagus. 


VEGETABLES. 

Red  Beet  Roots  (No.  127.) 

Are  not  so  much  used  as  they  deserve  ;  they  are 
boiled  exactly  in  the  same  way  as  parsnips  :  a 
large  root  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half  boiling  ;  to 
be  sent  to  table  with  salt  fish,  boiled  beef,  &c. 

Parsnips    (No.  128.) 

Are  to  be  done  just  in  the  same  manner  as  carrots, 
only  give  them  as  much  water  as  you  can  ;  they 
require  more  or  less  time  according  to  their  size, 
and  you  must  try  them  by  tlirusting  a  fork  into 
(hem  as  they  are  in  the  water ;  when  that  goes 
easily  through,  they  are  done  enough  :  an  hour 
and  a  quarter  will  boil  a  large  parsnip. 

Obs.  —  Parsnips  are  sometimes  sent  up  mashed 
in  the  same  way  as  turnips. 

Carrots.     (No.  129.) 

Let  them  be  well  washed  and  brushed,  not 
scraped  ;  half  an  hour  is  enough  for  young  spring 
carrots;  grown  carrots  will  take  an  hour  and  a 
half;  and  the  large  Sandwich  kind  full  two  hours. 
When  done,  rub  off  the  peels  with  a  clean  coarse 
cloth,  and  slice  them  in  two  or  four,  according  to 
their  size.  The  best  way  to  try  if  they  are  done 
enough,  is  to  pierce  them  with  a  fork. 


^^rnips.  (No.  130) 

Peel  off  half  an  inch  of  the  stringy  outside  ;  full- 
grown  turnips  will  take  thirty  minutes  gentle  boil- 
ing ;  (if  they  boil  too  fast,  they  will  burst ;)  try 


VEGETABLES. 

them  with  a  fork  ;  when  tender,  take  them  up,  and 
lay  them  on  a  sieve  ten  minutes,  to  drain  the 
water  thoroughly  from  them. 

Obs.  —  Young  turnips  should  not  be  peeled. 

To  Mash  Turnips.     (No.  131.) 

When  they  are  boiled  quite  tender,  squeeze 
them  as  dry  as  possible  between  two  trenchers, 
put  them  into  a  saucepan,  and  mash  them  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  add  a  little  bit  of  butter,  keep 
stirring  them  till  the  butter  is  melted  and  well 
mixed  with  them,  and  they  are  ready  for  table. 

Turnip  tops     (No.  132.) 

Are  the  shoots  which  grow  out,  in  the  spring,  of 
the  old  turnip  roots.  Put  them  into  cold  water 
an  hour  before  they  are  dressed  ;  the  more  water 
they  are  boiled  in,  the  better  they  will  look  ;  if 
boiled  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  they  will  taste 
bitter  ;  when  the  water  boils,  put  in  a  small  hand- 
ful of  salt,  and  then  your  vegetables  ;  if  fresh  and 
young,  they  will  be  done  in  about  twenty 
minutes :  drain  them  on  the  back  of  a  sieve. 

French  Beans.     (No.  \^o) 

Cut  off  the  stalk  end,  and  beginning  at  the 
other,  string  them  carefully  ;  the  strings  are  very 
tender  when  they  first  come  in,  but  are  as  hard,  in 
proportion  io  the  beans  then,  as  they  are  wiien 
more  grown  :  cut  off  the  stalks  and  tips;  let  a  bowl 
of  spring  water,  with  a  little  salt  dissolved  in  it, 


VEGETABLES. 

stand  hcfcre  yoii,  and  as  the  beans  are  cleaned 
and  stringed,  throw  them  in  :  when  all  are  done, 
put  t!icm  on  the  fire,  in  boiling  water,  with  some 
salt  in  it ;  when  fhey  have  boiled  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  take  one  out  and  taste  it;  as  soon  as 
tliey  are  tender*,  throw  them  into  a  cullender, 
drain  (hem,  and  lay  them  on  a  plate,  in  a  little 
heap,  highest  in  the  middle.  To  send  up  the  beans 
whole  is  much  the  best  method,  when  they 
are  thus  young,  and  their  delicate  flavour 
and  colour  are  much  better  preserved.  When 
a  little  more  grown,  they  must  be  cut  across 
in  two,  after  strin^  ing ;  and  foY  common  tables, 
they  are  to  be  split  first,  and  cut  across  after- 
wards; but  those  who  are  nice,  never  have 
them  at  such  a  growth  as  io  require  splitting. 
When  they  are  very  large,  they  look  very  pretty 
cut  into  lozenges  ;  in  this  case  they  are  not  split. 

Green  Peas.     (No.  134.) 

Young  green  peas  well  dressed,  are  one  of  the 
most  delicious  delicacies  of  the  vegetable  kingdom. 
They  must  be  young,  or  no  art  can  boil  them  ten- 
der l  it  is  equally  indispensable  that  they  be  fresh 
gathered,  and  cooked  as  soon  as  they  are  shelled, 
for,  by  being  exposed  to  the  air,  they  soon  lose 
both  their  colour  and  sweetness,  and  if  you  wisb 
to  feast  upon  peas  in  perfection,  you  must  have 
them  gathered  the  same  day  they  are  dressed,  and 

*  If  you  wish  to  have  them  very  green,  when  they  are  done 
throw  tliem  instantly  into  cold  water;  when  you  wish  to  send 
them  to  table,  warm  them  again  in  a  tureen  of  boiling 
water. 


VEGETABLES. 

put  on  to  boil  within  half  an  hour  after  they  are 
shelled.  Pass  them  through  a  coarse  sieve,  which 
is  made  for  the  purpose.  This  precaution  of  se- 
parating them  is  necessary,  for  large  and  small  peas 
cannot  be  boiled  together,  as,  ofcourse,  the  former 
will  take  more  time  than  the  latter.  For  a  peck  of 
peas,  set  on  a  saucepan  with  a  gallon  of  water  in  it ; 
when  it  boils,  put  in  your  peas  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  salt,  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  lump  sugar  ;  keep 
them  boiling  quick  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes, 
according  to  their  age  and  size  :  the  best  way  to 
judge  of  their  being  done  enough,  and  indeed,  the 
only  way  to  make  sure  of  cooking  them  so,  and 
not  beyond  the  point  of  perfection,  as  the  pea 
eaters  say  of  boiling  them  to  a  bubble,"  is  to 
take  some  out  with  your  spoon  and  taste  them. 
When  they  are  enough,  drain  them  on  a  hair 
sieve,  put  them  into  a  pye  dish,  divide  some 
butter  into  small  bits,  and  lay  them  on  the  peas  ; 
put  another  dish  over  them,  and  turn  them  over  ; 
this  will  melt  the  butter  through  them,  and  is  by 
far  the  best  way  of  buttering  peas. 

Obs,  — You  may  boil  a  few  sprigs  of  mint  in  a 
vsaucepan  by  themselves,  and  garnish  your  dish  of 
peas  with  them  :  see  Pea  Powder, 

Cucumber  Stexved.     (No.  135.) 

Peel  and  cut  your  cucumbers  into  slices  nearly 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  flonr  and  dry  them  in 
butter  ;  let  the  butter  be  quite  hot  before  you  put 
in  the  cucumbers  ;  fry  some  sliced  onions  with 
them  till  they  are  a  delicate  light  brown  colour, 
then  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  as  mucb  gravy 


VEGETABLES. 

ns  v/ill  cover  ihcm  ;  stew  slowly  till  they  are  tender; 
tills  will  take  about  an  hour  :  take  out  the  cucum- 
bers wi{h  a  slice,  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour 
and  butler,  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  season  it  with 
pepper  and  salf,  put  the  cucumber  in  to  warm, 
and  it  is  ready. 

Obs.  —  The  relish  of  this  dish  is  sometimes  aug- 
mented by  the  addition  of  bay  leaves,  anchovies, 
wine,  ale,  and  the  savoury  spices.- 

Artichokes,      (No.  ]S6.) 

Wrench  out  the  stalk  close  to  the  bottom,  by 
which  the  fibres  will  be  drawn  out,  put  them 
into  cold  water,  and  wash  them  well,  then 
put  them  into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  with  a 
handful  of  salt,  and  let  them  boil  gently  till  they 
are  tender,  which  will  take  an  houi*  and  a  half,  or 
two  hours ;  drain  them  on  a  sieve  ;  and  send  up 
melted  butter  with  them. 


Stexo  Onions.     (No.- 1 37.) 

The  large  Portugal  onions  are  the  best  for  this 
purpose  ;  takeoff  the  coats  of  half  a  dozen  of  these, 
taking  care  not  to  cut  off  the  tops  or  tails  too  near, 
or  the  onions  will  go  to  pieces;  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  big  enough  to  hold  them  without  laying 
them  a  top  of  one  another;  just  cover  them  with 
good  broth  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  fast,  add  to  them 
half  an  ounce  of  lump  sugar,  put.  them  on  a  very 
slow  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  two  hours,  till  the 
broth   is  reduced    to   a   glaze;    when   you  disii 


VEGETABLES. 

them,  turn  them  upside  down  ;   pour  the  sauce 
over  thera. 
This  is  a  very  elegant  preparation  of  onions. 

Roast  Onions,     (No.  138.) 

Tliey  are  done  best  in  a  Dutch  oven,  turning 
them  occasionally,  that  they  may  be  done  equally 
on  all  sides. 


FISH. 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS. 


This  department  of  the  business  of  the  kitcjien 
depends  more  upon  practice  than  any  other;  a 
very  few  moments  too  much  or  too  little,  and  the 
fish  is  spoilt.  So  many  circumstances  operate  oa 
this  occasion,  it  is  almost  impossible  to  write  rules 
that  are  generally  applicable.  There  are  de- 
cidedly different  opinions^  whether  the  water 
should  be  cold,  tepid,  or  boiling.  The  Dutch, 
who  are  famous  for  dressing  fish,  always  use  the 
latter.  See  No.  141.  We  believe  for  some  of  the 
fame  the  Dutch  cooks  have  acquired  they  are 
a  little  indebted  to  their  situation  enabling  them 
io  always  have  fisli  in  perfection;  and  that  the  su- 
perior excellence  of  the  fish  in  Holland,  is  because 
none  are  used,  unless  they  are  brought  alive  into 
the  kitchen,  (except  mackerel,  which  die  the 
moment  they  are  taken  out  of  the  water.)  The 
Dutch  are  as  nice  about  this  as,  Seneca  says,  the 


FISH. 

Romans  were;  who,  complaining  of  (he  luxury 
of  the  limes,  says,  they  are  come  to  that  dainti- 
ness, they  will  not  eat  a  fish,  unless  upon  the 
same  day  that  it  is  taken,  that  it  may  taste  of  tlie 
sea,  as  they  express  it. 

On  the  Dutch  flat  coast,  the  fish  are  all  taken 
with  nets ;  whereas,  on  our  rocky  coast,  fish  are 
mostly  caught  by  bait  and  hook,  which  imme- 
diately kills  them.  The  fish  are  brought  alive  by 
land,  to  the  Dutch  markets  in  water-casks  with  air 
holes  in  the  top.  Salmon,  and  other  fish,  is  thus 
preserved  in  rivers,  in  a  well-hole,  in  the  fishing 
boat. 

The  good  folks  of  this  metropolis  are  so  often 
disappointed,  by  having  fish  which  have  been 
kept  too  long,  tliey  are  apt  to  run  into  the  other 
extreme,  and  suppose  no  fish  will  either  dress 
well,  or  eat  well,  unless  it  is  quite  alive.  Some 
very  respectable  fishmongers  have,  however, 
assured  the  editor,  that  they  are  oftener  in  danger 
of  losing  their  credit,  by  selling  fish  too  fresh,  and 
that  especially  turbot  and  cod  must  be  kept  a  day 
or  so  after  they  are  dead,  before  they  will  eat 
well;  and,  like  meat,  require  a  certain  time 
before  they  are  in  the  best  condition  to  be  dressed  : 
then  they  recommend  them  to  be  put  into  water, 
(salted  in  proportion  of  half  a  pint  of  salt  to  a  gal- 


FISH. 


Ion  of  water,)  that  you  should  have  JQst  stopped 
the  boiling  of,  bj  pouring  in,  just  before  you  put 
in  the  fish,  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let  them  boil 
slowly  till  done. 


F  I  S  II. 


Turhot  to  Boil.     (No.   140.) 

Clean  and  wash  a  nice  white  tiirbot,  cut  it 
across  the  thickest  part  of  the  underside  ;  this 
is  to  prevent  it  breaking  on  the  breast,  which 
happens  from  the  fish  swelling",  and  cracking  the 
skin,  if  this  precaution  is  not  used  :  lay  it  in  a 
fish  kettle,  with  the  white  side  upwards ;  put 
a  large  handful  of  salt  on  it,  cover  it  with 
cold  spring  water,  set  it  on  a  hot  fire  till  it  boils, 
skim  it  carefully,  and  set  it  on  the  side  of  the  fire, 
to  boil  gently  for  about  twenty  minutes,  (if  it  boils 
fast,  the  fish  will  break  to  pieces;)  supposing  the 
fish  to  weigh  eight  or  nine  pounds  ;  for  sixteen 
or  eighteen  pounds,  an  hour.  Send  it  up  on  a 
fish-drainer,  garnished  with  sprigs  of  green  pars- 
ley. Save  a  little  of  the  inside  coral  spawn  of  the 
lobster,  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  without  butter. 
When  the  turbot  is  dished,  sprinkle  the  spawn 
over  it.  Garnish  the  dish  with  sprigs  of  curled 
parsley,  sliced  lemon,  and  finely  scraped  horse- 
radish ;  and,  if  you  like  to  send  it  to  table  in  full 
dressed,  surround  it  with  some  nicely  fried  smelts. 
Send  up  lobster  sauce  (see  receipt,  No.  294,) 
in  a  boat,  or  two  boats,  if  it  is  for  a  large  party. 

Dutch  method  of  Boiling  Turbot.  (No.  141.) 
In  boiling  a  large  turbot,    four  or  Hwq  handfuls 


FISH 

of  salt  are  put  into  tlie  water  it  is  to  be  boiled  in  ; 
which  strong  brine  makes  the  fish  crimp  and 
savoury  ;  the  thick  parts  of  the  fish  are  cut,  or 
scored,  to  admit  the  salt  water.  The  salt  must  be 
put  into  cold  water  ;  but  before  the  fish  is  put  in, 
the  water  must  boil  strongly.  A  large  turbot  will 
be  well  boiled  in  half  an  hour.  (From  Mr.  Twiss 
Ihe  traveller,) 

Turbot  to  Fry,     (No.  142.) 

Clean  a  small  turbot  well,  and  dry  it  in  a  cloth, 
beat  an  ^g^  on  a  plate  ten  minutes,  wash  the  fish 
all  over  with  the  ^gg,  then  cover  it  with  fine  bread 
crumbs,  that  have  been  rubbed  through  a  hair 
sieve  :  have  some  clean  lard,  or  dripping  in  an  iron 
fryingpan,  over  a  hot  fire ;  when  it  has  done  talking, 
and.  is  quite  still,  put  the  fish  in ;  in  about  four 
minutes  turn  it,  and  fry  it  on  the  other  side  ;  w  hen 
done,  lay  it  on  a  hair  sieve,  to  drain  the  fat 
from  it. 

Lobster  or  shrimp  sauce. 

A  Brill     (No.  143.) 
Is  dressed  the  same  way  as  a  turbot. 

Soles  to  Boil,    (No.  144.) 

Wash  and  clean  your  soles  well,  put  them  into 
a  fish-kettle,  with  a  handful  of  salt,  and  as  much 
cold  spring  water  as  will  cover  them ;  put  them  on  a 
quick  fire,  and  when  they  boil,  set  them  on  the 
side  of  the  fire  to  boil  gently  ien  minutes  ;  that 
will  be  long  enough,  unless  they  be  very  large. 


FISH. 

Send  them  up  on  a  fish-drainer,  garnished  with 
sprigs  of  parsley, 

Obs.  —  Slices  of  lemon  are  a  very  universally 
acceptable  garnish,  with  either  fried  or  boiled 
fish  ;  a  few  sprigs  of  crisp  parsley  may  be  added, 
if  you  wish  to  make  it  look  very  smart. 

Soles  to  Fry,    (No.  145.) 

Be  sure  your  soles  are  quite  fresh ^  or  all  the 
good  cooks  in  the  world  cannot  make  them  either 
look  or  eat  well.  An  hour  before  you  intend  to  dress 
them,  wash  them  thoroughly,  and  wrap  them  in 
a  clean  cloth,  to  make  them  perfectly  dry,  or  the 
bread  crumbs  will  not  stick  to  them.  Beat  the 
yolk  and  white  of  an  eg^  well  together,  on  a  plate, 
with  a  fork  ;  flour  your  fish,  to  absorb  any  mois- 
ture that  may  remain,  and  wipe  it  oft*  with  a  clean 
cloth  :  dip  them  in  the  egg  on  both  sides  all  over ; 
or,  what  is  better,  egg  them  with  a  paste-brush, 
rub  some  stale  bread  through  a  cullender,  or  hair 
sieve,  strew  it  all  over  the  fish,  so  that  it  covers 
every  part,  and  take  up  the  fish  by  the  head,  and 
shake  off"  the  loose  crumbs.  The  sole  is  now 
ready  for  the  fryingpan. 

Put  a  pint  or  more  of  fresh  sweet  olive  oil,  or  a 
pound  ofiard*,  or  beef  suet,  (the  fat  ought  to  cover 
the  fish  ;  what  we  here  order,  is  for  a  middling- 
sized  pair  of  soles,)  into  a  fryingpan,  over  a  sharp 
and  clear  fire;  watch  it,  and  when  it  boils,  i.  e.  when 
it  has  done  bubbling,  and  is  still,  and  the  smoke 

*  The.  fat  will  do  two  or  three  times,  if  strained  through  a 
hair  sieve,  and  put  by ;  if  you  do  not  find  it  enough,  put  a 
little  fresh  to  it. 


FISH. 

just  begins  to  rise  from  tbe  surface,  (if  the  fat  is 
not  extremely  hot,  it  is  impossible  to  fry  fish  of  a 
,£:oocl  colour,  or  to  make  them  firm  and  crisp. 
The  best  way  to  ascertain  the  heat  of  the  fat,  is  to 
try  it  with  a  bit  of  bread  as  big  as  a  nut,  if  it  is 
quite  hot  encTugh,  the  bread  will  be  brown  imme- 
diately,) put  in  the  fish,  it  will  be  crisp  and 
bro^^n  on  the  side  next  the  fire,  in  about  four  or 
five  minutes  ;  to  turn  it,  stick  a  two  pronged  fork 
jiear  the  head,  and  support  the  tail  with  a  fish- 
slice, and  fry  the  other  side  :  one  sole  is  enough 
to  put  in  at  a  time,  except  the  pan  is  very  large, 
and  you  have  plenty  of  fat.  When  your  fish  are 
fried,  lay  them  on  whited  brown  paper,  on  a  hair 
sieve,  placed  slanting,  and  near  enough  the  fire  to 
keep  thera  warm,  till  the  fat  is  thoroughly  drained 
from  them  ;  this  will  take  five  or  ten  minutes* 
When  soles  are  fried,  they  will  keep  very  good 
in  a  dry  place  for  four  days,  and  eat  as  well  as 
when  fresh  dressed,  if  you  warm  them  in  a  Dutch 
oven,  or  in  good  gravy. 

Obs. — ^There  are  several  general  rules  in  this  re- 
ceipt which  apply  to  all  fried  fish  :  we  have  been 
very  particular  and  minute  in  our  directions  ;  for, 
although  a  fried  sole  is  a  very  frequent  and 
favourite  dish,  it  is  very  seldom  brought  to  table 
in  perfection.  Batter  will  occasionally  supply  the 
place  of  egg ;  and  biscuit,  powder  of  bread 
crumbs  :  the  latter  is  sold  at  KusselPs  excellent 
biscuit  shop,  nearly  opposite  Villiers  Street  in  the 
Strand  *. 

•  The  very  indifferent  manner  in  which  the  operation  of 
/"rying  fish  is  usually  performed,  we  suppose  produced  the 
following  jew  d'  esprit,  \^hich  appeared  a  few  months  since 


FISH. 

Soles  to  Stew,     (No.  146.) 

These  are  done  the  same  as  eels,  Wiggy  s  way, 
in  good  gravy.     See  JSo.  104. 

Fillets  of  Soles  Fried,      (No.  147.) 

Take  Ihe  fillets  of  a  pair  of  good  soles,  trim 
them  neatly,  and  wipe  them  on  a  dry  cloth  ;  beat 
Xhe  yolk  and  white  of  an  esfg  together  on  a  plat6 
for  tive  minutes,  dip  the  fillets  into  the  Ggg^  and 
then  into  fine  stale  bread  crumbs,  that  have  been 
rubbed  through  a  hair  sieve.  Ilave  some  clean 
lard  hot  in  an  iron  fryingpan;  put  in  the  fillets  and 
fry  them  of  a  fine  brown  colour  ;  lay  them  on  a 
hair  sieve  as  you  do  them,  and  keep  (hem  hot 
before  the  fire  till  the  following  sauce  is  ready. 

Make  half  a  pint  of  good  melCed  butter  squeeze 
in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  lay  the  fillets  of  soles  round 
the  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  into  the  middle. 

Fillets  of  Soles,  Jlliite,     (No.  148.) 

Take  off  the  fillets,  trim  them,  and  cut  them  in 
two  ;  butter  a  clean  earthen  dish  oi'  pan,  lay  the 
fillets  in  it,  and  butter  a  paper  cut  to  the  size  of 
the  dish,  and  lay  it  close  to  the  fillets,  set  it  in  a 
cool  oven,  or  over  a  very  slow  fire,  for  about  fif- 
teen or  twenty  minutes;  take  them  up,  and  dry 

in  that  ably  conducted  daily  register,  "  The  Morning  Chro- 
nicle." 

**  The  King's  Bench  Reports  have  cook'd  up  an  odd  dish,, 
An  action  for  damages,  Fry  versus  Finh. 
But  sure,  if  for  damages  action  could  lie. 
It  certainly  must  have  been  Fish  against  Fry** 
P 


FISH. 

<hem  on  a  sheet  of  clean  paper,  or  on  a  clean  nap- 
kin :  dish  on  a  hot  dish,  and  poui  a  UUle  good 
white  sauce  over  them. 

Ccd  BgUccL     (No.   149.) 

Clean  and  wash  your  f^sh,  and  rub  a  little  salt 
in  the  inside  of  it ;  iHhe  weather  is  verj  cold,  a 
large  cod  is  always  tlie  better  for  bein<^  kept  a 
day:  put  plenty  of  water  in  your  lish-kettle,  so 
that  the  tish  may  be  well  covered^  put  in  a  hand- 
ful of  salt:  when  the  water  boils,  stop  its  boiling 
hy  pouring  in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  theu  put 
in  your  tish  ;  a  very  small  fish  will  require  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minut/?s,  a  very  large  one  near 
an  hour;  drain  it  on  the  fish-plate  ;  dish  it  with 
garnish  of  the  roe,  liver,  chilterling,  &c. 

Sail  Fish  Boiled,     (No.  150.) 

Salted  fish  requires  soaking,  according  to  ihe 
time  it  luis  been  in  salt;  that  whicli  is  hard  and 
dry  requires  two  nights  soaking  ;  the  intermediate 
(hiy  lay  it  on  a  stone  floor  ;  for  (be  barrelled  cod, 
less  time  will  do  ;  and  for  the  best  Dogger  Bank 
split  lish,  which  has  not  been  more  than  a  fort- 
night or  three  weeks  in  salt,  less  time  will  be 
needful.     Put  it  on  in  cold  water. 

Slices  of  Cod  Boiled.     (No.  151.) 

Lay  the  slice  of  fish  at  the  bottom  of  a  fish- 
kettle,  with  as  much  cold  spring  water  as  will 
cover  it,  and  a  large  handtul  of  salt ;  set  it  on  a 
quick  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  set  it  on  one  side  of 
the  fire  to  boil  gently,  for  ten  minutes,  or  a  quar- 


FiSH. 

^-crofaTi  hour,  accordiiii:^  io  the  size  of  (he  iish^ 
Garnisli  with  a  slice  of  the  liver  on  one  side,  and 
chitterlings  on  the  other.  Ojster  sauce  and  plaia 
butter. 

Codlings  Broiled.    (No.  152.) 

Wash  them  well,  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  l3cat  an 
egi^  on  a  plate  well,  dip  tlie  fish  in  tiie  egg,  and 
tlien  flonr  them  all  over;  lay  them  on  a  clean 
gridiron  over  a  slow  and  clear  lire  ;  when  they 
are  done  on  one  side,  turn  them  gently  ;  they  will 
take  about  ivt^nij  minutes,  or  half  an  hour.  An- 
chovy sauce. 

niiitings  Fried,     (No.  1 5  3.) 

Skin  them,  and  fasten  their  tails  to  their 
mouths;  dip  them  in  G^g^  and  then  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard ;  lay  them  in 
the  pan  with  their  backs  towards  the  fire,  and  let 
the  fat  boil  over  them,  but  do  not  turn  them,  they 
are  more  liable  to  break  than  any  fish. 

Ohs.  —  When  whitings  are  very  scarce  and 
dear,  the  fishmongers  can  skin  aud  truss  young 
codlings,  so  ^hat  you  can  hardly  tell  the  differ- 
ence. A  codling  has  a  beard  under  its  mouth, 
which  a  whiting  has  not  :  this  distinguishing 
mark  is  sometime*  cut  off;  however,  if  you  look, 
you  will  soon  see  the  mark  where  the  beard  was, 
and  thus  discover  if  it  is  a  whiting  or  a  shaved 
codling. 

Skate  Fried.   (No.  154.) 

After    you    have    cleaned    them    thoroughly, 
f2 


FISH* 

divide  it  into  fillets,  dry  tliem  on  a  clean  cloth ;  beat 
the  yolk  and  white  of  an  egg  together  on  a  plate 
for  tive  minutes,  dip  the  fish  in  this,  and  then  in 
fine  bread  crumbs  ;  fry  it  in  hot  lard  or  drippings 
till  they  are  of  a  beautiful  brown  colour ;  lay 
them  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain ;  garnish  with  crisp 
parsley. 

Plaice  or  Flounders  Fried,     (No.  155.) 

Clean  them  well,  and  wipe  them  on-a  dry  cloth 
to  absorb  all  the  water  from  them ;  flour  them  and 
fry- them  in  hot  lard,  and  send  them  up  with 
plain  butter  in  a  boat,  or  anchovy  sauce. 

JVater  Souchy,     (No.   \56,) 

This,  I  believe,  is  a  Dutch  dish,  and  is  made 
of  several  small  fish,  such  as  flounders,  plaice, 
whiting,  gudgeons,  eels,  or  percli ;  these  must  be 
very  fresh,  and  very  clean,  for  what  they  are 
boiled  in  is  sent  up  with  them  :  cut  noches  in 
your  iish  and  throw  them  into  fresh  spring  water  ; 
(this  is  what  is  called  crimping  fish) ;  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  as  much  water  as  you  think 
will  fill  the  dish,  with  some  parsley  leaves  and 
parsley  roots,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  as  much  salt  as  you 
would  for  broth ;  take  care  to  skim  it  well  when 
it  boils ;  when  your  fish  is  done  enough,  send  it 
up  in  a  deep  dish,  with  some  slices  of  bread  and 
butter  on  a  plate. 

Haddocks  Boiled.   (No.  \57.) 
"Wash  it  well,  and  put  it  on  to  boil  in  as  much 


FISH. 

cold  water  as  will  cover  it,  with  plenty  of  salt  in 
it;  a  haddock  of  three  pounds  will  take  twenty 
minutes  after  it  boils.  These  are  sometimes  stuf- 
fed with  the  same  stutfing  you  put  to  veal. 

Carp  to  SteziK     (No.  158.) 

\\^hen  your  fish  has  been  properly  washed,  lay 
it  in  a  tish  kettle,  with  a  pint  of  port  wine  and 
about  as  much  water  as  will  half  cover  it;  a  bay 
leaf,  a  carrot,  a  large  onion,  a  head  of  celery,  a 
dozen  berries  of  black  pepper,  the  same  of  all- 
spice, aid  an  ounce  of  lean  ham  ;  cover  the-  fish 
kettle  close,  and  let  it  stew  gendy  for  half  an  hour; 
take  the  fish  up,  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  thicken 
the  liquor  that  it  was  boiled  in  with  flour;  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg; 
when  it  has  boiled  ten  minutes,  strain  it  through 
a  tammis  into  a  clean  stewpan,  make  it  very  hot, 
and  pour  it  over  the  fish  ;  if  there  is  more  sauce 
than  the  dish  will  hold,  send  the  rest  up  in  a  boat. 

Perch  Fried.     (No.   159.) 

Wash  the  fish  well,  and  wipe  them  on  a  dry 
cloth,  flour  them  lightly  all  over,  and  frj^  them 
ten  minutes  in  hot  lard  or  drippings;  when  they 
are  fried,  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain  ;  send 
them  up  on  a  hot  dish  :  garnish  with  sprigs  of 
green  parsley.     Anchovy  sauce. 

Perch  Boiled,     (No.  160.) 

Clean  them  carefully,  and  put  them  in  a  fish 
kettle,    with  as  much  cold  spring  water  as  will 


FISH. 

cover  Ihera,  with  a  Landful  of  salt;  set  them  on  a 
quick  fire  till  they  boil ;  when  they  boil,  set  them 
on  one  side  to  boil  gently  for  ten  minutes. 

Salmofi  Pickkcl     (No.  161.) 

Cut  a  salmon  into  pieces  and  put  it  into  a  fish 
ketlle,  with  a  large  handful  of  salt,  and  cold  spiting 
wa(er  enough  to  cover  it ;  when  it  boils  set  it  on 
one  side  of  the  tire  <o  boil  gently  half  an-  hourr; 
when  it  is  enough,  dry  it  on  a  clean  cloth.  - 

Put  the  top  of  the  salmon  liquor  into  a  stewpan, 
to  which  add  the  same  quantity  of  white  wine 
vinegar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  whole  pepper, 
the  same  of  allspice,  and  two  bay  leaves;  set  it 
on  the  lire  to  boil  i^w  minutes ;  skim  it  well ; 
take  it  off  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  cold,  pour  it 
over  the  fish  and  tie  it  down  ;  in  three  days  it  may 
be  turned ,  and  in  a  week  it  will  be  fit  for  eating, 
and  will  remain  so  for  several  months.  Garnish 
with  sprigs  of  fennel. 

Obs. — This  is  in  the  finest  condition  when  fresh 
salmon  is  most  plentiful  about  Midsummer;  the 
season  for  it  is  from  February  to  September*. 

Salmon  Boiled.     (No.  162.) 

Put  on  a  fish  kettle,  with  as  much  spring  water 
as  will  cover  the  salmon  you  are  going  to  dress. 
When  the  water  boils,  put  in  a  large  handful  of 


*  The  three  marlis  of  the  goodness  of  pickled  snirnon  are, 
1st-  The  hriglrness  of  the  scales,  and  their  sticking  fast  to  the 
skin.  2dly,"The  fiirnness  of  the  flesh;  and  3dly,  Its  fine  red 
colour. 


FISH. 

Kilt,  lake  off  the  scum,  if  any  rises,  have  the  fish 
well  washed,  put  it  in,  and  let  it  boil  half  an  hour. 

Salmon  Broiled.  (No.  1G3.) 

Clean  the  salmon  well,  and  cut  it  into  slices 
ih>(je  inches  thick,  dry  it  thoroughly  in  a  clean 
-cloth,  and  rub  it  all  over  with  sweet  oil,  or  thick 
melted  butter,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it  ; 
put/yatir  i^ridiron  over  a  clear  lire,  at  some  dis- 
tance ;  when  it  is  hot,  wipe  it  clean,  and  then  rub 
h  with  sweet  oil  or  lard  ;  lay  the  salmon  on,  and 
when  it  is  done  on  one  side,  turn  it  gently  and  broil 
the  other  side.     Anchovy  sauce. 

Eels  Stezvecl  IViggys  zvai/.     (No.  1 64.) 

"  Take  two  pounds  of  fine  silver*  eels  ;  the  best 
size  are  those  that  are  not  much  less  than  a  three- 
shilling  piece  in  circumference,  quile  fresh,  full 
of  life,  and  as  brisk  as  an  eel ;  such  as  have  br^ea 
kept  out  of  water  till  they  can  scarce  stir,  are 
-good  for  nothing.  Gut  them  and  rub  them  with 
salt  till  the  slime  is  cleaned  from  them,  wash  them 
in  three  different  waters,  and  divide  them  into 
pieces  about  four  inchejs  long :  you  mny  season 
them  with  salt,  and  beaten  mace  or  nutmeg,  and 
then  egg  and  bread  crumb  them  ;  dredge  them 
with  a  little  flour,  and  fry  them  in  drippings  till 
they  are  brown  j  lay  them  to  dry  on  a  hair  sieve. 

*  The  yellow  eels  are  apt  to  taste  muddy;  the  wliiteness 
of  the  belly  of  the  fish,  is  not  the  only  niarii  to  know  the  btst; 
the  right  colour  of  the  back  is  ii  coppery  hue,  very  biis^ht;  the 
olive  coloured  are  inferior;  and  those  tending  to  a  greeu  are 
worse. 

F  4 


FTSil. 

Have  ready  a  quart  of  good  beef  gravy  ;  it  must 
be  quite  cold  when  you  put  the  eels  into  it,  or  the 
skill  of  (lie  eels  will  crack,  and  the  beauty  of  this 
disli  consists  in  sending  Ihem  up  whole :  set  them 
on  a  slow  fire  till  they  boil,  then  put  them  by  the 
side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  very  gently  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  take  them  out  of  the  stewpan  with  a 
fish  slice,  be  careful  not  to  bruise  their  skins,  lay 
them  on  a  dish  about  two  inches  deep,  mix  two 
teaspoorisful  of  flour  with  two  tablespoons ful  of 
port  wine,  stir  it  into  the  sauce  by  degrees,  and 
strain  it  over  the  fish  through  a  tammis  sieve. 

Obs. —  To  kill  eels  instantly,  without  the  horrid 
torture  of  cutting  and  skinning  them  alive,  pierce 
the  spinal  marrow  close  to  the  back  part  of  tlie 
skull  with  a  sharp  pointed  skewer  :  it' this  be  done 
in  the  right  place,  all  motion  will  instantly  cease. 

To  fry  Eds.    (No.  165.) 

Skin  and  gut  them,  and  wash  them  well  in  cold 
water,  cut  them  in  pieces  four  inches  long,  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt,  beat  an  egg  well  on  a 
plate,  dip  them  in  the  egg^  and  then  in  fine  bread 
crumbs  ;  fry  them  in  fresh  clean  lard,  drain  them 
"well  from  the  fat,  garnish  with  crisp  parsley ;  for 
sauce,  plain  melted  butter,  with  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon  in  it. 

Spit chcockcd Eels.     (No.  \G6!) 

This  the  French  cooks  call  the  English  way  of 
dressing  eels,  and  though  not  of  their  own  inven- 
tion, they  frequently  se«id  it  up  to  the  best  tables. 

Take  two  middling-sized  fine  silver  eels^  leave 


the  skin  on,  cut  off  the  heads,  slit  them  on  the 
belly  side,  and  take  out  the  bone  and  guts,  and 
■wash  and  wipe  them  nicely,  and  then  cut  them 
into  pieces  about  three  inches  long,  wipe  them 
quite  dry,  put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  little  minced  parsley,  thyme,  sage,  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  a  very  little  chopped  shallot ;  set  the 
stewpan  over  the  fire  ;  when  the  butter  is  melted, 
stir  the  ingredients  together,  and  take  it  off  the 
fire,  mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  them,  and 
dip  the  eel  in,  a  piece  at  a  time,  and  then  roll 
them  in  bread  crumbs,  making  as  much  stick  to 
them  as  you  can ;  then  rub  a  gridiron  with  a  bit  of 
suet,  set  it  liigh  over  a  very  clear  fire,  and  broil 
your  eels  of  a  fine  crisp  brown  :  dish  them  with 
crisp  parsley,  and  send  up  plain  butter  in  a  boat, 
and  anchovy  and  butter. 

Obs, —  We  like  them  better  with  the  skin  off; 
it  is  very  apt  to  offend  delicate  stomachs. 

Mackarel  Boiled,     (No.  I67.) 

This  fish  loses  its  life  as  soon  as  it  leaves  the  sea^ 
and  the  fresher  it  is  the  better.  They  are  very 
tender  fish,  and  the  less  you  handle  them  the  bet- 
ter. Wash  and  clean  them  thoroughly,  put 
them  into  cold  water  with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it ; 
be  careful  not  to  let  them  boil,  but  only  simmer 
about  ten  minutes,  till  they  are  enough,  which  you 
will  discover  by  their  beginning  to  split  at  the  tail ; 
do  not  let  them  stand  in  the  water  after  they  are 
done,  being  so  delicate  that  the  beat  of  the  water 
will  break  them.  This  fish  rarely  appears  at  table 
in  perfection;  either  the  mackarel  is  boiled  too 
much,  or  the  roe  too  little.  The  best  way  is  to 
p5 


FISH,' 

open  a  slit  opf)osIte  the  middle  of  (he  voe ;  tliis 
■will  allow  the  water  access,  and  Ihe  roe  will  then  be 
done  as  soon  as  the  fish,  which  it  is  seldom  other- 
wise ;  and  some  sagacions  s:ourmand€  insist  upon 
it  they  must  be  taken  out  and  boiled  separately. 

Mackarel  Soused.    (No.  168.) 

After  boiling  them  as  above  directed,  put  into 
the  bquor  they  were  boiled  in  a  few  peppercorns^ 
some  salt,  and  half  as  much  vinegar,  boil  up 
together,  and  when  the  macliarel  are  cold  pour 
this  over  them.  There  must  be  enough  of  it  to 
cover  them  completely.  They  will  be  good  in  two 
days,  and  keep  so  a  fortnight.  Send  them  to  table 
garnished  with  sprigs  of  fennel. 

Mackarel  Broiled.     (No.  I69.) 

Clean  a  fine  large  mackarel,  wipe  it  on  a  dry 
cloth,  and  cut  a  long  slit  down  the  back ;  fill  it 
with  parsley  and  fennel,  equal  quantities  of  each 
minced  fine,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a 
little  butter,  oil  it  on  both  sides,  and  lay  it  on 
a  clean  gridiron  over  a  very  clear  slow  fire  ;  when 
it  is  done  on  one  side  turn  it,  but  be  careful  that 
it  does  not  burn  ;  send  it  up  with  fennel  sauce  in  a 
boat,  or  plain  butter  with  mushroom  catsup  or  soy 
in  it. 

Mackarel  Baked.     (No.  170.) 

Cut  off  their  heads,  open  them,  and  take  out 
the  roes,  and  clean  them  thoroughly,  rub  them  on 
the  inside  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  put  the 


FISH. 

roes  in  again,  season  tliera  (with  a  mixture  of 
po'.vdered  allspice,  black  pepper  and  salt,  well 
rubbed  together)  on  both  sides,  and  hiy  them  close 
in  a  bakinsrpan,  lay  a  couple  of  bay  leaves  on  the 
top,  cover  them  with  equal  quantities  of  coll  viru^- 
gar  and  water,  tie  them  down  with  strong  white 
paper  doubled,  bake  them  for  an  hour  in  a  slow 
Qven.     They  will  keep  for  a  fortnight. 

Mackarel  Pickled.     (No.  171 .) 

Procure  them  as  fresh  as  possible,  split  them 
open,  take  off  the  heads,  and  trim  off  all  the  tliin 
part  of  the  belly,  put  them  into  salt  and  water  for 
one  hour,  drain  and  wipe  your  fish,  and  put 
them  into  jars  or  casks,  with  the  following  prepa- 
rntion.  Take  salt  and  bay  salt,  one  pound  each, 
saltpetre  and  lump  sugar,  two  ounces  each,  white 
pepper,  half  an  ounce,  and  cardaiiium  seeds,  one 
d-ram  ;  grind  and  poufid  the  spices  and  salt  well 
tocrether,  put  the  fish  into  jars  or  casks,  with  a 
layer  of  the  preparation  at  the  bottom,  then  a  layer 
of  mackarel  wilh  the  skin  side  downwards  ;  so 
continue  alternately  till  the  cask  or  jar  is  full; 
press  it  down  and  cover  it  close.  In  six  months 
they  will  be  fine,  and  fit  for  use,  and  will  keep  for 
a  couple  of  years,  or  more,  in  prime  condition, 
and  the  flavour  will  be  delicious. 


.    Broiled  Sprats.     (Na  170.)=^ 

Have  an  iron  wire  as  thick  as  packthread,  and 
as  long  as  your  gridiron  is  broad  ;  run  this  through 
the  head  of  your  sprats,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  and 
salt  over  them,  put  your  gridiron  over  a  clear 


FISH. 

quick  fire,  tarn  them  in  about  a  couple  of  minutes  ; 
Avhen  the  other  side  is  brown,  draw  out  the  wire, 
and  send  up  the  fish  with  melted  butter  in  a  cup. 

Herrings  Broiled.    (No.  171.)* 

Wash  them  well,  and  then  dry  them  with  a 
cloth,  dust  them  with  flour,  and  broil  them  over  a 
slow  fire  till  they  are  well  done.  Send  up  good 
melted  butter  in  a  boat. 

Herrings  Soused.     (No.  172.) 

Cut  off  the  heads  of  two  dozen  fine  fresh  her- 
rings, open  and  wash  them  very  clean,  season 
them  with  salt,  allspice,  and  black  pepper,  put 
them  into  a  pot,  and  cover  them  with  white  wine, 
vinegar  and  water,  equal  parts  of  each,  tie  the 
pot  up  close,  and  set  it  in  a  slow  oven  to  bake  for 
two  hours.     They  will  keep  a  month  or  six  weeks. 

Smelts  Fried,     (No.  173.) 

Clean  and  dry  them  thoroughly  in  a  cloth,  beat 
an  egg  on  a  plate,  and  dip  them  in  it,  then  in  fine 
bread  crumbs  that  have  been  rubbed  through  a 
sieve  ;  fry  them  in  clean  lard  ;  as  soon  as  the  lard 
boils  and  is  still,  put  in  the  fish.  It  will  take 
about  five  minutes  to  give  them  a  fine  gold  colour. 
Drain  them  on  a  hair  sieve.  When  quite  dried, 
send  tliem  up  on  a  hot  dish,  with  shrimp  sauce  in 
a  boat. 


FISH. 


Pickled  Shrimps,  the  American  Way. 
(No.  174.) 

Pick  the  finest  shrimps,  and  put  tlicm  into 
white  wine  vine<;'ar  with  some  salt  in  it;  put  them 
into  wide-mouthed  bottles. 

Potted  Shrimps,  or  Prazvns,     (No.  175.) 

When  3'ou  have  picked  them,  powder  them 
with  a  little  beaten  mace,  grated  nutmeg",  white 
pepper  and  salt,  add  a  little  cold  butter,  and  pound 
all  well  together  in  a  marble  mortar  till  it  is  the 
consistence  of  paste.  Put  it  into  pots  covered 
with  clarified  butter. 

Lobster,     (No.  17^.) 

Always  buy  them  alive,  for  those  who  sell  them 
sometimes  keep  them  too  long  before  they  boil 
them,  and  they  then  have  not  half  their  flavour. 
Choose  those  that  are  full  of  motion,  which  is  the 
index  of  their  freshness.  The  heaviest  are  gene- 
rally the  best,  and  those  of  a  middle  size.  Never 
take  them  when  the  shell  is  encrusted,  which  is  a 
sign  they  are  old.  The  male  lobster  is  preferred 
to  eat,  aud  the  female  on  account  of  her  eggs  to 
make  sauce  of.  The  female  lobster  is  distinguished 
by  having  a  broader  tail  than  the  male,  and  less 
claws.  Set  on  a  pot  of  water  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
salt  in  it,  Iiaving  tied  the  tail  of  the  lobster  fast  to 
the  body,  when  the  water  boils  put  it  in,  and,  if  very 
large,  keep  it  boiling  briskly  for  half  an  hour ; 
wipe  all  the  skura  off  it,  and  set  it  by  till  it  is 


Fisir. 

cold,  (hen  rub  the  sholl  with  a  very  little  butter  or 
sweet  oil,  to  make  it  shine;  break  off  the  great 
claws,  crack  them  carefullj  in  each  joint,  so  that 
they  mny  not  be  shattered  to  pi;^ces,  and  yet  come 
to  pieces  easily,  cut  the  tail  down  the  middle,  and 
send  up  the  body  whole. 

%*  These  fish  come  in  about  April,  and  continite  plentiful 
till  the  Otjater  season  begins. 

Crab,     (No.  177.) 

The  above  observations  npply  to  crabs,  Tvhich 
should  n  ither  be  too  small  nor  too  Inrge.  The 
best  size  are  those  which  measure  from  eight  to 
ten  inches  across  the  shoulders. 

%*   Crabs  wake  their  appeai^ance  and  disappearance  about  the 
same  time  as  Lobsters.  The  Cromer  Crabs  are  most  esteemedj 

Potted  Lobster.     (No.  178) 

Select  fine  hen  lobsters  when  full  of  spawn,  boil 
them  thorou£,rhly,  pick  out  all  the  'eatable  parts,^ 
and  pound  them  in  n  mortar,  adding  to  them  by  ' 
degrees  finely  pounded  mace,  black  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  litt!-  clarified  butter.  When  the  whole  is 
we!!  pixed,  and  beat  to  ihe  consistence  of  paste, 
press  it  down  hard  in  a  preserving- pot,  pour  clari- 
fied butter  over  it,  and  keep  it  close  covered. 

Lobster  Cake.     (No.  179.) 

Pick  the  meat  out  of  a  couple  of  lobsters,  let 
one  of  them  be  a  hen,  on  account  of  the  live 
spawn,  mince  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  with  two 
boned,  washed,  beheaded  and  l^etailed  anchovies, 


F  I S  IT. 

Lalf  an  ounce  of  butter,  the  yolks  oF  three  eg-fys,  a 
teacupful  of  finely-gratcd  stale  bread,  and  a  little 
beaten  mace.  Line  a  preserving-pot  with  sheets 
of  fat  bacon,  pnt  in  the  mixture,  cover  it  with 
bacon,  and  bake  it  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Let  it 
remain  till  cold.  When  you  wish  to  sijet  it  out, 
put  the  mould  in  warm  water  a  few  minutes,  and 
it  will  come  out-  Take  away  the  bacon.  Send 
up  the  cake  garnished  with  gxeen  parsley,  &c. 

Lobster  Pudding.     (No.  1 80.) 

Pick  all  the  meat  out  of  a  hen  lobster,  and 
pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  handful  of  bread 
crumbs,  two  yolks  of  egi^-s,  and  two  ounces  of 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  to  your  taste,  beat 
the  whole  well  together,  put  it  in  a  basin  or  mould 
to  boil  an  hour. 

Ohs. —  The  sauce  for  the  above  is  the  spawn  of 
the  lobster  pounded  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little  but- 
ter and  half  a  lablespoonful  of  water.  Mix  it  with 
melted  butter,  and  pour  it  over  the  pudding.  It 
should  look  quite  red,  and  cover  the  bottom  of  tho 
dish. 

Oysters,      (No.  181.) 

The  common*  Colchester  and  Feversham  oys- 
ter are  brought  to  market  on  tlie  5th  of  August; 
the  Milton,  or  as  they  are  commonly  called,  the 


*  Those  are  called  common  oysters  which  are  picked  up  on 
the  French  eoast,  and  laid  in  the  Colchester  beds.     These      \ 
are  never  so  fat  and  fine  as  the  natives.  ■    I 


FISH. 

mcKing  natives*,  do  not  come  till  tlic  beginning 
of  October,  continue  in  seasurt  till  the  12th  of  May, 
and  reach  the  meridian  of  their  perfection  about 
Christmas. 

Soreeofthe  amateurs  of  oysters  think  they  are 
not  best  when  quite  fresh  from  the  sea ;  the  flavour 
they  have  is  too  brackish  and  harsh,  wliich  is 
much  ameliorated  by  giving  them  a  feed,  by 
covering  them  with  clean  water,  with  a  pint  of 
salt  to  about  two  gallons  ;  (nothing  else,  no  oat- 
meal, nor  any  other  trumpery  ;)  this  will  cleanse 
them  from  the  mud  and  sand,  &c.  of  the  bed  ; 
after  they  have  lain  in  it  twelve  hours,  change  it 
for  fresh  salt  and  water,  and  in  twelve  hours  niore^ 
they  will  be  in  prime  order  for  the  mouth,  and 
remain  so  two  or  three  days  :  at  the  time  ot  high 
water,  you  may  see  them  open  their  shells, 
in  expectation  of  receiving  their  usual  food.  This 
process  of  1  ceding  oysters,  is  only  employed 
when  a  great  many  come  up  together  in  their  dirt, 
&c.  The  real  Colchester,  or  Py fleet  barrelled 
oysters,  that  are  packed  at  the  beds,  are  bet-, 
tcr  without  being  put  in  water ;.  they  are  care-: 
fully  and  tightly  packed,  and  must  not  be  dis- 
turbed till  wanted  for  table  :  these,  in  moderate 
weather,  will  keep  good  for  a  week,  or  ten  days. 

Ohs.  —  Nothing  appears  to  common  people 
more  indifl^erent  than  the  manner  of  opening  oys- 
ters,  or  the  time  of  eating  them  after  they  are 


*  Tl,ose  oysters  are  thus  called  which  are  born  as  well  as 
bred  in  this  country,  and  are  mostly  spit  in  the  Burnham  and 
Mersey  rivers,  and  do  not  come  to  their  finest  condition  till 
they  are  near  four  years  old. 


FISH. 

opened ;  nothing,  however,  is  more  important,  in  the 
enlii^htened  eyes  of  the  experienced  oyster  eater. 

Those  who  wish  to  enjoy  this  delicious  restora- 
tive in  its  utmost  perfection,  must  eat  it  the 
moment  it  is  opened,  with  its  own  gravy  in  the 
under  shell:  if  not  eaten  while  absolutely  alive, 
its  flavour  and  spirit  is  lost.  The  true  lover  of  an 
oyster  will  have  more  regard  for  the  feelings  of  his 
little  favourite,  than  to  abandon  it  to.  the  mercy  of 
a  bungling  operator,  but  will  always  open  it  him- 
self, afid  contrive  to  detach  the  fisii  from  the  shell 
so  dexterously,  that  the  oyster  is  hardly  conscious 
I)c  has  been  ejected  from  his  lodging,  till  he  feels 
the  teeth  of  the  gourmand  ticklitig  him  to  death. 

Scolloped  Ousters.    (No.  182) 

Parboil  twenty-four  oysters  in  as  mucli  water  as 
will  just  cover  them,  strain  the  liquor,  and  add  to 
it  about  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  ground  black  pepper,  a  roll  of  the  rind  of  a 
lemon,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 

Beard  and  wash  the  oysters,  and  let  them  stew 
slowly  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  above  liquor,  put 
them  into  scallop  shells,  with  a  little  of  the  liquor 
in  each,  and  cover  them  with  some  fine  bread 
crumbs,  put  little  bits  of  butter  on  the  top,  and 
bake  and  brown  them  in  a  Dutch  oven. 

Stewed  Oysters,     (No.  182.)^ 

Large  oysters  will  do  for  stewing,  and  by  some 
are  preferred  for  this  purpose  ;  but  \ye  rather  love 


FISH. 

the  pluQip,  juicy,  and  delicious  Milton;  sfew  a 
couple  of  dozen  of  these,  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  with  tlieir  own  liqnor.  When  tliey  are 
coming  to  a  boil,  take  then  up  and  strain  tlic 
liquor  throuijh  a  tammis  sieve,  and  lay  the  oysters 
on  a  cloth  fo  dry.  Put  a  bit  of  buUer,  as  big  as  an 
egg,  into  a  stcwpan  ;  when  it  is  melted,  put  io  it 
as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up,  tlie  liquor  of  the 
oysters,  nnd  three  tahlespsonsful  of  [)oiling  water^ 
one  of  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup,  and  one  of 
■yvhite  wine,  a  b'ad*'  of  bruised  mace,  a  little  \vhit« 
pepper  and  salt  ;  let  it  boil  up  for  a  couple  of 
minutes,  tlien  put  in  the  oysters,  and  let  them  get 
warm  ;  (\hey  must  not  be  boiled,  or  they  will 
become  hard  :)  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  hash 
dish  with  bread  sippets,  and  pour  your  oysters 
and  sauce  into  it. 

For  the  folio win^i^  observations  on  fisli,  the 
public  are  indebted  to  Mr.  William  Tucker, 
Fishmonger,  Great  Russel  Street,  Bloorasbury. 

"  Sir,  "  Oct.  18,1816.'* 

"  In  speaking  of  the  different  seasons  of  fish,  I 
do  not  mean  to  say  that  you  caniiot  get  good  or 
bad,  except  at  the  times  I  have  mentioned,  as 
they  frequently  will  vary  ;  for  instance,  there  may 
be  a  good  cod  in  the  midst  of  summer,  or  a  good 
turbot  in  the  midst  of  winter;  and  I  have  only 
pointed  out  the  time  when  they  are  generally  so. 
"  Tliere  is  no  article  so  fluctuating  in  price  as 
fish,  the  London  market  being  supplied  princi* 
pally  by  water  carriage,  from -all  parts  of  the  coast, 
the  wind  cannot  be  fair  for  all;  the  consequence 
then  is,  frequently  a  great  abiuidance  of  some 
sorts,  and  none,    or  little,    of  many   others.     A 


FISH. 

great  many  persons  send  their  servants  to  market 
to  get,  perhaps,  a  turbot,  or  cod's  head  and  shoul- 
ders ;  it  very  likely  happens  those  articles  are 
scarce  and  extravagant :  the  servants  have  no 
other  order,  or  perhaps  will  not  take  the  trouble 
to  get  other  orders,  but  order  a  turbot  at  SOy. 
or  40^.,  whereas  they  might  have  as  good  a  dish 
of  any  other  sort  for  half  the  money.  In  this 
case  the  tr;iJesinan  is  frequently  condemned  as 
an  extravagant  fellow,  when,  perhaps,  he  gets 
nothing  by  selling  it.  I  am  therefore  convinced 
Xhat  it  is  people's  own  fault  that  they  have  fish 
at  such  an  extravagant  price:  if  masters  or  mis- 
tresses were  to  go  to  market  the inselves,  if  one 
sort  was  dear,  they  could  have  another;  or,  if  not 
convenient  to  go  themselves,  desire  their  fisli- 
mo/iger  to  send  them  a  handsome  dish,  the  most 
seasonable  and  reasonable,  for  so  many  per- 
sons ;  and  if  that  tradesman  did  not  nse  thena 
well,  he  is  not  deserving  of  their  custom." 


'^  Cod  generally  comes  into  good  season  in 
October,  when,  if  the  weather  is  cold,  it  eats  as 
fine  as  at  any  time  in  tlie  year  :  towards  the  latter 
end  of  January,  and  February,  and  part  of  IMarch, 
they  are  mostly  poor,  but  the  latter  end  of  March, 
April,  and  May,  they  arc  generally  particularly 
fine,  having  shot  their  spawn,  they  come  in  fine 
order.  The  Dogger-Bank  cod  are  the  most 
esteemed,  as  they  generally  cut  in  large  fine 
flakes  ;  the  north  country  cod,  that  is  caught  off  the 
Orkney  isles,  are  generally  very  stringy,  or  what 
is  commonly  called  woolley,  and  sell  at  a  very 


FISH. 

inferior  prire,  but  are  caught  iu   much  gr-eatcr 
abundance  than  the  Dogger  cod.     The  cod  arc  all 
caught  witli  hook,  and  brought  alive  in  well  boats 
to  the  London  markets.     Tiie   eod  cured  on  the 
Dogger    Bank   is   remarkably  fine,    and    seldom 
cured  above  two  or  three  weeks  before   brouglit 
to  market  ;  tlie  barrel  cod  is  commonly  cured  ou 
the  coast  of  Scotland  and  Yorkshire.     There  is  a 
great  deal  of  inferior  cured  salt  fish  brought  f-'om 
Newfoundland    and    Ireland.      The    skull    of  a 
Dogger  Bank  cod  is  a  famous  dish  for  an  epicure, 
it  being  the  richest  and  most  luscious  part  of  the 
fish  ;  one  of  Ihem  is  a  good  dish  for  tlirce  or  four 
persons,  and  eats  well  either  baked  or  boiled  :  the 
tail  of  a  cod   should   always  be  cut  in  fillets  or 
slices,  and  fried,  which   makes  a  good  dish,  and 
generally  to  be  bought  at  a  very  reasonable  rate; 
it' boiled,  it  is  always  soft  and  watery.     The  skull 
and  tail  of  a  cod  makes  an  excellent  Scotch  dish, 
stewed  and  served  up  together,  with  anchovies,  or 
oyster  sauce,    with   the  liquor  it  is  boiled  in,    iu 
the  tureen. 

*'  Ling  is  brought  to  the  London  market  in  the 
same  manner  as  cod,  but  is  very  inferior  to  it 
either  fresh  or  salt, 

'"  Turbots,  The  finest  turbots  that  are  brought  to 
the  London  market,  are  caught  ofi'the  Dutch  coast, 
or  German  ocean,  and  are  brought  iu  well  boats 
alive.  The  commencement  of  the  season  is  gene- 
rally about  March  and  April,  and  continues  all 
the  summer  season.  Turbots,  like  other  fish, 
do  not  spawn  all  at  the  same  time;  therefore 
there  is  always  good  and  bad  nearly  all  ilic  year 
round.  For  this  year  or  tv/o  past,  there  has  been 
an  immense  quantity  brought  to  London,  from  all 
parts,  and  of  all  qualities ;  a  great  many  from  a 


FISH. 

new  fishery  off  Hartlepool,  which  are  a  very 
handsome  looking  turbot,  but  by  no  means  equal 
to  what  are  caught  off  the  Dutch  coast.  A  great 
many  excellent  turbots  are  caught  off  Dover  and 
Dungeness;  and  a  large  quantity  brought  from 
Scotland,  packc^d  in  ice,  which  are  of  a  very 
inferior  quality,  and  are  generally  to  be  bought 
for  about  one  fourth  the  price  of  good  turbots. 

"  Brills  are  generally  caught  at  the  same  place 
as  turbots,  and  are  generally  of  the  same  quality  as 
the  turbot,  from  the  different  parts.  Some  brills 
are  very  good,  but  not  equal  to  turbot. 

''  Salmo7i.  The  earliest  that  comes  in  season  to 
Ihe  London  market,  is  brought  from  the  Severn, 
and  begins  to  come  into  season  the  beginning  of 
Isovember,  but  very  few  so  early,  perhaps  not 
above  one  in  fifty,  as  many  of  them  will  not  shoot 
their  spawn  till  January,  or  after,  and  then  con- 
tinue in  season  till  October,  when  they  begin  to 
get  very  thin  and  poor.  The  principal  supply  of 
salmon  is  from  different  parts  of  Scotland,  packed 
in  ice,  and  brought  by  water  :  if  the  vessels  have 
a  fair  wind,  Ihey  will  be  in  London  in  three  days  ; 
but  it  frequently  happens  they  are  at  sea  perhaps 
a  fortnight,  when  the  greater  part  of  the  tish  is 
perished,  some  tolerable  good,  and  some  of  all 
qualities,  and  has,  for  a  year  or  two  past,  sold 
as  low  as  two  pence  per  pound,  and  up  to  as  much 
as  eighteen  pence  per  pound  at  the  same  time, 
owing  to  its  different  degrees  of  goodness. 

"  Salmon  GzciltSy  or  Salmon  Peel,  are  the  small 
salmon  which  come  from  about  5  or  6  pounds 
to  ten  pounds,  are  very  good  fijsh,  and  make 
handsome  dishes  of  fish,  and  sent  to  table  crooked 
in  the  form  of  an  S. 


TXSH. 

'*  Berwick  Trout  are  a  distinct  fisli  from  the 
gwilts,  and  are  caught  in  (he  Kivcr  Tweed,  aijd 
dressed  in  the  same  manner  as  the  gvvilt. 

"  Cakcred  Salmon  is  the  salmon  canght  in  <he 
Thames,  and  cut  into  slices  alive;  and  some  few 
salmon  are  brought  from  Oxford  to  London  alive, 
and  cut.  A  few  slices  makes  a  handsome,  genteel 
dish,  but  is  generally  very  expensive. 

*^  Mnchirel  generally  make  their  appearance  off 
the  Land's  End  about  the  beginning  of  April,  and 
as.  the  weather  gets  warm  they  gradually  come 
round  the  coast, "and  generally  arrive  off  Brighton 
about  May,  and  continue  for  some  months,  until 
they  begin  to  shoot  their  spawn,  when  for  above 
two  months  they  are  missing,  until  about  Michael- 
mas, when  there  is  a  few  very  fat  small  mackarel  of 
excellent  flavour  at  this  time  make  their  appear- 
ance again. 

"  Dutch  Plaice,  when  in  season,  and  what  are 
caught  off  the  Dutch  coast,  are  good  iSsh  either 
fried  or  boiled  :  they  are  frequently  condemned 
as  a  bad  fish,  because  they  do  not  eat  so  firm  as  a.., 
(urbot  or  brills,  which  is  not  their  nature;  hu% 
they  are  very  rich  nutritious  fish,  more  so  than 
turbot ;  but  what  are  caught  on  our  own  coast 
are  nothing  equal  to  the  others. 

"  Sales  are  a  fish  that  are  generally  to  be  pro- 
cured good  from  some  part  of  the  coast,  as  some 
are  goinir  out  of  season,  and  some  coming  in, 
both  at  the  same  time  ;  a  great  many  are  brought 
in  ^H^U-boats,  alive,  that  are  caught  off  Dover, 
and  Folkstone,  and  some  are  brought  from  the 
same  places  by  land  carriage.  The  soles  that  are 
caught  on  that  part  of  the  coast  are  rather  small, 
but  exceeding  good  fish.     The  finest  soles  that 


FISH. 

arc  caug?it  any  where,  are  tliose  that  are  off  Ply-' 
mouth,  near  the  Eddistone,  and  all  Ijic  way  up 
the  Channel,  and  to  Torbciy;  it  being  very  deep 
water,  and  the  ground  a  fine  gravelly  bottom, 
Ihey  fe^d  very  solid,  and  are  caught  frequently 
very  large,  eight  or  ien  pounds  per])air:  tliey 
are  generally  brought  by  water  to  Portsmouth, 
and  thence  by  land;  but  the  greatest  quantity 
are  caught  oiT  Yarmouth  and  the  Knole,  and  a 
great  many  are  caught  off  the  Forelands. 

"  Red  MuUets  are  a  very  delicious  fish,  com- 
morfly  called  the  sea  woodcock,  they  b^ing  dres- 
sed with  their  entrails  in,  there  being  no  gut,  only 
like  a  string,  which  is  like  marrow  itself;  they 
only  require  scraping;  washed  tenderly  with  a 
cloth,  and  broiled  in  a  buttered  paper:  they  are 
so  rich,  i\\Qj  require  scarcely  any  sauce.  The 
best  are  caught  off  Plymouth,  and  all  the  way  up 
the  channel  to  Portland,  and  some  few  off  Brigh- 
ton. 

''  Grai/  MulletSy  when  in  season,  are  very  rich, 
good  fish,  but  not  equal  to  the  red  :  those  gene- 
rally keep  in  the  season  near  the  fresh  water* 
The  b(  st  way  of  dressing  those,  is  by  baking  them 
in  a  pye,  or  roasting,  or  baking  them,  with  a 
pudding  in  their  belly,  and  put  in  a  tureen  with 
some  good  gravy,  and  they  cat  very  fine. 

*'  John  Doreijs  are  a  very  good  fish,  cutting  very 
wliite  and  firm,  equal  to  a  turbot  in  firmness,  but 
not  in  richness :  those  caught,  off  Plymouth  and. 
Torbay  are  the  best.  Lobster  is  requisite  fot 
sauce.  J 

''  Whitings  are  a  very  delicate  fish,  and  recjuire 
to  be  eaten  very  fresh  ;  those  caught  off  Dover  and 


FI5H. 

Folksione  are  the  best ;  socce  arc  brought  alive, 
and  some  by  land  carriage. 

*'  Skate  is  a  very  gxxxi  fish  when  in  good  seasorr, 
but  no  fish  so  bad  when  it  is  other\>ise  :  those  per- 
sons that  like  it  finn  and  dry.  should  have  it 
crimped  :  buitho-e  that  like  it  tender,  should  have 
it  plain,  and  eat  not  earlier  than  the  second  day. 
and  it"  cold  weather,  three  or  four  days  ohi  it  is 
belter  :  it  cannot  Ije  kept  too  long,  if  periectly 
sweet.  Skate,  if  young,  eats  very  line,  crimped 
and  fried. 

•  Hnddoch  are  a  firm,  good  fish  ;  they  are  dres- 
sed many  different  ways.  Large  haddocks  boiled, 
and  oyster  sauce.  Haddocks  salted  a  day  or  two, 
and  eaten  with  e^<:  sance,  are  a  very  £:ood  article. 
Haddocks  cut  in  fillets,  and  fried,  cat  very  fine. 
Or  if  small,  very  well  broiled,  or  baked  with 
a  pudding  in  their  belly,  and  some  good  gravy. 

'•  Fi-Tfh  Sturgeon  is  esteemed  a  good  fish  by 
many  ;  but.  I  believe,  only  because  it  d^^es  not 
come  plentiful  enough  to  be  common  ;  and  to  the 
eater  of  tish  it  makes  a  change  :  as  many  gentle- 
men cannot  dir>e  without  fish,  it  makes  a  variety, 
or  becomes  useful,  where  people  want  to  give  a 
course  offish  entirely  :  a  piece  stewed  wiili  some 
gcMxl  gravy  is  the  best  way  of  dressing  :  or  cut  in 
slices,  and  fried,  as  you  would  a  veal  cutlet,  eats 
very  well.  Sturgeon  pickled,  makes  a  handsome 
winter  dish  for  the  second  course. 

'*'  Sjfielts  are  allowed  to  be  caught  in  the 
Thames  on  the  first  of  X :'v:::ber,  and  con- 
tinue till  May.  The  TL;...;  smelts  are  the 
best  and  sweetest,  for  two  reasons  :  they  are  fresh- 
er,  aud  richer,    than    any  other  you  can  get : 


FISH. 

Iliey  catch  ihem  much  raore  plentiful  and  larger 
in  Lancashire  and  Norfolk,  but  not  so  good  :  a 
great  many  are  brought  ta  town  from  Norfolk, 
but  barely  come  good,  as  they  are  a  tish  should 
always  be  eaten  fresh;  indeed  all  river  fish  should 
be  eaten  fresh,  except  salmon,  A\hich,  unless 
crimpt,  eats  better  tlie  gecond  or  third  day :  but 
all  Ihames  fish  particularly  should  be  eaten 
very  fresli ;  no  fisli  eats  so  bad  kept. 

"  Lobsters  are,  in  general,  to  be  procured  at  all 
times  :  but  the  best  lime  is  from  .April  to  August. 
After  that  time  they  begin  to  spawn,  and  seldom 
open  solid.  Crabs  nearly  the  same.  Prawns  are 
best  from  March  to  August.  Crayfish  are  gene- 
rally to  be  procured  good  at  all  times ;  the  sea 
crayfish  are  xery  indifferent  fish,  and  of  bad  di- 
gestion; the  only  thing  they  are  good  for,  is  to 
make  currie.  Lobsters  are  dressed  in  many  ways 
for  dishes ;  as  lobster  sall'd,  or  Italian  sall'd,  or 
plain,  or  currie. 

"  Crab  picked  out  of  the  shell,  and  divided  in 
three  parts,  and  decorated  with  a  little  lobster 
spawn,  makes  a  very  handsome  dish  for  the  se- 
cond course,  or  a  supper  dish  :  some  cooks  and 
fishmongers  dress  them  verv  handsome. 

''  Pipers  are  a  very  good  fish  ;  the  best  that  are 
caught  are  in  the  mid  channel,  from  off  Torbay 
to  Plymouth ;  they  are  a  very  handsome  fish 
when  first  caught,  having  many  beautiful  colours, 
but  soon  fade:  they  eat"a  great  deal  like  a  firm, 
fine  cod  :  eat  good  with  a  pudding  in  their  bellies, 
baked  or  roasted,  and  some  good  gravy :  or  plain, 
boiled  as  you  would  a  haddock.  " 

•••  Gurnetts.  There  are  many  different  sorts 
of  this  fish  ;  the  red  gurnett  is  a  good  deal  like 

G 


FISH. 

a  piper ;  it  is  dressed  the  same  as  a  piper  or  had- 
dock. 

"  Eels  are  a  good,  and  frequently  very  useful 
fish,  as  you  can  generally  get  them  when  you  can- 
not get  other  fish,  and  make  a  good  dish,  either 
stewed  or  spitchcocked. 

"  Brawn  is  sold  by  fishmongers,  and  is  a  good 
thing  for  side  dishes,  or  the  second  course :  the 
brawn  makers  generally  commence  making  in  No- 
vember, and  will  continue  in  season  till  March." 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS. 


It  is  hardly  necessary  to  give  any  more  cautions 
to  the  cook  to  pay  continual  attention  to  the  con- 
dition of  her  stewpans,  which  should  be  examin- 
ed every  time  they  are  used  ;  so  many  mischiefs 
arise  from  their  getting  out  of  repair  :  if  they  are 
not  kept  nicely  tinned,  all  your  good  work  will  be 
in  vain ;  the  broths  and  soups  will  look  green  and 
dirty,  and  taste  bitter  and  poisonous,  and  will  be 
spoiled  both  for  the  eye  and  palate,  and  your 
credit  will  be  lost ;  and  as  the  health,  and  even 
life  of  the  family  depends  upon  this,  the  cook  may 
be  sure  her  employers  had  rather  pay  the  tin- 
man's bill  than  the  doctor's ;  therefore,  attention 
to  this  cannot  fail  to  engage  the  regard  of  the  mis- 
tress, between  whom  and  the  cook,  it  will  be  my 
utmost  endeavour  throughout  this  book  to  pro- 
mote perfect  harmony. 

If  the  servant  has  the  misfortune  to  scorch  or 
blister  the  tinping  of  her  saucepan,  which  will 
g2 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND    SOUPS. 

happen  sometimes  fo  the  most  careful  cook,  I  ad- 
vise her,  by  all  means,  immediately  to  acquaint 
her  employers,  who  will  thank  her  for  so  candidly 
mentioning  the  accident ;  and  only  censure  her  if 
she  conceals  it.  Make  it  a  rule  without  an  excep- 
tion, never  to  use  any  sieves  or  tammy  cloths, 
spoons  or  ladles,  till  they  are  well  cleaned,  and 
thoroughly  dried,  nor  any  stewpans  &c.,  without 
first  washing  them  out  with  boiling  water,  and 
rubbing  them  well  with  a  dry  cloth  and  a  little 
bran,  to  clean  them  from  every  kind  of  grease  and 
sand,  &c.  that  may  have  been  left  in  them,  or  any 
bad  smell  thpy  may  have  got  since  they  were  last 
used :  never  neglect  this.  Though  we  do  not 
suppose  our  cook  such  a  naughty  slut,  as  to  think 
of  putting  by  her  broth  pots,  &c.,  till  she  has 
thoroughly  cleaned  *  them ;  wash  them  imraedi- 

*  Stewpans  and  soup-pots  with  round  bottoms,  such  as 
saucepans  are  made  with,  will  wear  twice  as  long,  and  are 
cleaned  with  half  the  trouble,  as  those  whose  sides  are  sol- 
dered to  the  bottom ;  for  the  sand  and  grease,  &c.  will  get 
into  the  joined  part,  and  it  is  a  difficulty,  almost  amounting 
to  an  impossibility,  to  dislodge  the  dirt  completely.  Take 
care  also,  that  the  lids  fit  as  close  as  possible,  that  the 
broth,  soup,  &c.,  that  you  are  making,  may  not  waste  by 
evaporation.  They  are  good  for  nothing,  unless  they  fit 
tight  enough  to  keep  the  steam  in,  and  the  smoke  out. 


a(clj,  and  be  sure  they  are  quite  dry  before  tbej 
are  put  by;  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place,  for 
damp  will  rust  and  destroy  them  very  soon  :  at- 
tend to  this  the  first  moment  you  can  spare  after 
the  dinner  is  sent  up  ;  and  never  put  by  any  soup, 
gravy,  «&c.,  in  a  metal  utensil ;  stone  or  earthen 
vessels  should  be  used  for  this  purpose.  Cultivate 
regular  habits  of  cleanliness,  &c.,  in  all  your  busi- 
ness, -which  you  -will  then  get  through  easily  and 
comfortably.  I  do  not  mean  that  restless  spirit  of 
"  the  tidy  one,"  who  is  always  frisking  about  in  a 
%vhirlpool  of  bustle  and  confusion  ;  and  is  always 
dirty,  under  pretence  of  being  always  cleaning. 

Broths  differ  from  soups,  as  they  are  inferior  in 
strength,  and  composed  with  fewer  ingredients; 
they  are  more  easy  to  make,  and  lead  to  the  art  of 
making  gravies,  soups,  and  sauces. 

Lean,  juicy  beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  form  the  basis 
of  these  :  you  must  procure  those  pieces  which 
afford  the  most  and  richest  succulence,  and  as 
fresh  killed  as  possible'^'.  Stale  meat  will  make 
your  broth  thick  and  bad  tasted,  and  fat  meat  is 

*  In  general,  it  has  been  considered  the  best  economy  to 
use  the  cheapest  and  most  inferior  meats  for  soup,  &c.,  and 
to  boil  it  down  to  rags.  I  think  this  a  false  frugality ;  and 
advise  you  to  buy  good  pieces  of  meat,  and  only  stew  them 
till  they  are  done  enough  to  eat. 

g3 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

not  only  wasted,  but  occasions  the  broth  very  soon 
to  turn  sour :  this  only  applies  to  those  broths 
which  are  required  to  be  perfectly  clean  :  we  shall 
show  hereafter,  that  fat  and  drippings  may  be  so 
combined  with  vegetable  mucilage,  as  to  afford, 
at  the  small  cost  of  lOd.  per  gallon,  a  very  nourish- 
ing, palatable,  and  balsamic  soup. 

The  following  broth  herbs,  soup  roots,  and  sea* 
soniiigs,  Scotch  barley,  pearl  barley,  flour,  bread 
raspings,  oatmeal,  peas,  beans,  rice,  vermicelli, 
maccaroni,  potatoe  mucilage,  mushrooms,  cham- 
pignons, parsnips,  carrots,  beet  roots,  turnips,  gar- 
lick,  shallots,  onions  *,  cucumber,  celery,  celery 
seedt,  parsley,  leeks,  common  thyme,  lemon- 
thyme,  orange-thyme,  knotted  marjoram,  sage, 
mint,  winter  savoury,  sweet  basil  bay  leaves,  tar- 
ragon, chervit,  burnet,  allspice,  cinnamon,  ginger, 

*  All  cooks  agree  In  tJiis  opinion, 
No  savoury  dish  without  an  onion. 

Sliced  onions  fried  quite  brown,  with  some  butter  and  flour, 
are  excellent  to  heighten  the  colour  and  flavour  of  brown 
sauces  and  soups. 

t  The  concentration  of  flavour  in  celery  seed  is  such,  that 
half  a  drachm  of  it  will  impregnate  a  gallon  of  soup  with  more 
relish  than  two  or  three  heads  of  the  fresh  vegetable.  This 
valuable  acquisition  to  the  soup-pot  deserves  to  be  more  uni- 
rersally  known. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

nutmeg,  clove,  mace,  black  pepper,  white  pepper, 
lemon-peel,  lemon-juice  *,  Seville  orange  juicet, 
and  salt,  used  separately,  or  combined  in  fifty 
different  proportions,  will  make  an  endless  va- 
riety J  of  excellent  broths  and  soups,  quite  as 
agreeable  to  the  appetite,  and  incalculably  more 
advantageous  to  the  stomach,  than  consuming 
pheasants  and  partridges,  and  the  long  list  of 
piquante,  inflammatory,  rare  and  costly  articles, 
recommended  in  some  former  books  on  this 
subject,  whose  elaborately  compounded  soups  are 
like  their  made  dishes  ;  in  which,  though  variety 
is  aimed  at,  every  thing  has  the  same  tastes,  and 
nothing  its  own.  The  great  fault  of  our  English 
soups,  seems  to  be  the  employment  of  an  excess  of 
spices,  and  too  small  a  proportion  of  roots  and 
herbs. 
To  the  ingredients  I  have  enumerated,  many 

*  If  you  have  not  orange  or  lemon  juice,  a  little  French 
wine  vinegar  is  the  best  substitute  for  it. 

t  The  juice  of  the  Seville  orange  is  to  be  preferred  to  lemon- 
juice,  the  flavour  is  finer,  and  the  acid  milder. 

X  The  erudite  editor  of  the  "  Almanack  des  Gourmands,'* 
vol.  ii.  p.  30,  tells  us,  that  ten  folio  volumes  would  not 
contain  the  receipts  of  all  the  soups  that  have  been  invented 
in  that  grand  school  of  good  eating,  the  Parisian  kitchen. 

g4 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

culinary  scribes  indiscriminately  cram  into  almost 
every  dish,  anchovies  *,  garlickf,  bay  leaves, 
and  that  hot,  fiery  spice,  Cajenne  pepper.  We 
leave  those  who  love  these  things,  to  nse  them  as 
they  like ;  their  flavour  can  be  very  extempora- 
neously produced  by  spirit  of  Cayenne,  garlick 
vinegar,  and  essence  of  anchovy  if.  We  again 
caution  the  cook  always  to  avoid,  these  predomi- 
nant flavours,  which,  however  agreeable  they  may- 
be to  some,  are  extremely  disagreeable  to  others. 

Truflles  and  morels  are  also  set  down  as  a  part 
of  most  receipts.  These  have  a  very  rich,  high 
flavour,  and  arc  delicious  additions  to  some  dishes, 
or  sent  up  as  a  stew  by  themselves,  when  they  are 

*  Soy,  cavice-coratch,  anchovies,  curry  powder,  browning, 
catsup,  pickle  liquor,  beer,  and  wine,  are  occasionally  very 
convenient  auxiliaries  to  soups,  &c. :  the  proportion  of  wine 
should  not  exceed  a  large  wineglassful  to  a  quart  of  soup, 
though  much  larger  quantities  are  ordered  in  many  books: 
this  is  as  much  as  can  be  admitted,  without  the  vinous  flavour 
becoming  remarkably  predominant. 

f  Many  a  good  dish  is  spoiled,  by  the  cook  not  knowing 
the  proper  use  of  this,  which  is  to  give  a  flavour,  and  not  to 
be  predominant  to  the  other  ingredients :  a  morsel  mashed 
^vith  the  point  of  a  knife,  and  stired  in,  is  enough. 

X  For  preparing  these,  you  will  find  the  best  receipts  in  the 
chapter  of  sauces,  &:c. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  A^D  SOUPS. 

fresh  and  fine  ;  but  in  this  state  they  are  not  served 
up  half  a  dozen  times  in  a  year  at  the  first  noble- 
man's table  in  the  kingdom  :  when  they  are  dried, 
they  generally  lose  their  flavour,  and  serve  only 
to  soak  up  good  gravy,  from  which  they  take 
more  taste  than  they  give.  The  great  art  of  com- 
posing a  rich  soup  is,  so  to  proportion  the  several 
ingredients  one  to  another,  that  no  particular  taste 
be  stronger  than  the  rest ;  but  to  produce  such  a 
fine,  harmonious,  and  delicious  relish,  that  the 
whole  is  delightful :  this  requires  a  very  judi- 
cious combination  of  tlie  materials,  and  constitutes 
the  *'  chef-d'oeuvre'"  of  culinary  science. 

In  the  first  place,  take  care  that  the  roots  and 
herbs  be  perfectly  well  cleaned,  and  proportion 
the  water  not  only  to  the  quantity  of  meat  *,  and 
other  ingredients,  but  to  the  sort  of  fire  you  intend 
to  use.  If  you  have  a  brisk  fire,  a  great  deal  more 
water  must  be  put  in  than  you  intend  to  have 
broth  ;  but  if  it  be  to  stew  gently,  then  little  more 
water  need  be  put  in  at  first  than  is  expected  at 
the  end ;  for  when  the  saucepan  is  covered  close, 
and  the  fire  gentle,  very  little  is  wasted.  In  most 
cases,  this  gentle  way  of  stewing  is  incomparably 

*  Generally  a  pound  of  meat  to  a  quart  of  water,  for 
soups;  and  double  that  quantity  for  gravies, 

g5 


BROTHS,  GRAVIESj  AXD   SOUPS. 

ihc  best,  and  both  the  meat  and  the  soup  eat  the 
belter  tor  it. 

Always  dish  up  your  soups  the  last  thing.  If 
it  be  gravv  soup,  it  will  skin  over  if  you  let  it 
stand;  if  it  be  peas-soup,  it  often  settles,  and  the 
top  looks  thin. 

Bj  quick  and  strong  boiling,  not  only  all  the 
volatile  and  finest  parts  of  the  ingredients  are 
evaporated,  and  fly  off  with  the  steam,  but  the 
coarser  parts  are  rendered  soluble ;  so  you  lose 
the  good,  and  get  the  bad.  The  slower  they  boil 
the  better.  Soups  will  generally  take  from  three 
to  six  hours. 

If  possible,  always  prepare  your  broths  and 
soups  the  evening  before  you  want  them.  This  will 
give  you  more  time  to  attend  to  the  rest  of  your  din- 
ner next  day ;  and  when  the  soup  is  cold,  fat  may 
be  much  more  easily  and  completely  removed  from 
the  surface  of  it  :  when  you  decant  it,  take  care 
not  to  disturb  the  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the  ves- 
sel, which  are  so  fine,  they  will  escape  through  your 
tammis,  or  sieve,  and  are  only  to  be  got  rid  of  in 
this  manner.  The  full  flavour  of  the  ingredients 
can  only  be  extracted  by  very  long  and  slow  sim- 
mering; during  which,  take  care  to  prevent  the 
evaporation  of  the  steam,  by  covering  your  pot 
closely  :  perhaps  the  best  stew  pots  are  the  cast 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AXD  SOUPS. 

iron  digesters*,  made  by  Jackson  and  Moser,  in 
Greek  Street,  Soho :  in  these,  all  the  nutritive  qua- 
lities of  the  meat  are  preserved,  the  steam  being 
prevented  escaping  by  the  lids  fitting  exactly 
into  a  screw  grove. 

Bread  raspings,  bread  crumbs  +,  biscuit  pow- 
der, isinglass,  potatoe  mucilage,  fat  skimmings 
and  flour,  or  flour  and  butter,  or  flour  and  water 
rubbed  well  together,  are  the  materials  commonly 
used  J  to  thicken  §,  and  give  a  body  to  our  soups. 
To  their  very  rich  gravies,  &c.,  the  French  add 
the  breasts  of  partridges  and  fowls,  beaten  to  a  pulp 
in  a  marble  mortar,  a  piece  of  the  beef  you  have 

*  The  water  in  the  digester  is  never  raade  to  boil,  so  there 
is  no  exhalation  of  volatile  parts;  and  although  the  solutioQ 
is  made  with  great  success,  and  may  be  to  any  degree  requir- 
ed, yet  if  that  is  not  carried  very  far,  the  meat  may  be  ren- 
dered very  tender,  while  it  retains  its  most  sapid  parts,  and 
stHl  remain  eatable,  and  useful  in  the  family. 

t  To  thicken  with  bread:  take  the  crumb  of  a  French 
roll,  boil  it  in  a  little  of  the  soup,  beat  it  in  a  mortar,  and  rub 
it  through  a  sieve,  or  coarse  cloth,  pour  this  iuto  your  soup, 
and  give  it  a  boil  up  afterwards. 

I  In  the  proportion  of  a  teacupful  to  a  quart  of  soup. 

§  Whatever  materials  are  used  for  this  purpose,  must  be 
gradually  mixed  with  the  soup,  till  they  are  thoroughly  incor- 
porated with  it  ^  ifitisatall  lumpy,  pass  it  through  a  fine 
hair  sieve. 


AXU  SOUPS. 

boiled  (o  make  your  broth  or  gravy,  pounded  in 
the  like  manner,  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour, 
and  gradually  well  incorporated  with  the  gravy  or 
soup,  will  be  found  an  excellent  substitute  for 
these  more  expensive  articles.  Meat  from  which 
broth  has  been  made,  and  all  the  juice  has  been 
extracted,  is  then  excellently  well  prepared  for 
frothing,  and  quite  as  good  as  that  which  has 
been  baked  till  it  is  dry^',  and  pOunded,  &c., 
seasoned  in  the  usual  manner,  will  be  an  elegant 
and  savoury  luncheon  or  supper  dish,  and  ex- 
tremely useful,  as  we  have  before  observed,  to 
thicken  soups,  sauces,  ^c,  and  costs  nothing  but 
the  trouble  of  preparing  it,  which  is  very  little, 
and  you  get  a  delicious  relish  for  sandwiches,&c., 
of  what  heretofore  has  been  by  the  poorest  house- 
keeper considered  the  perquisite  of  the  cat. 

It  is  a  good  plan  always  to  keep  some  spare 
broth,  lest  your  soup  liquor  waste  in  boiling,  and 
get  too  thick.  If  it  is  too  thin,  or  too  weak,  take 
off  the  cover  of  your  soup-pot,  and  let  it  boil  till 
some  of  the  watery  part  of  it  has  evaporated,  or 
add  some  of  the  thickening  materials  we  have  be- 
fore mentioned;  and  always  have  at  hand  some 

*  If  the  gravy  is  not  completely  drained  from  it,  the  article 
potted  will  turn  sour  in  a  couple  of  days. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

browning.       This   simple   preparation   is   miicli 
t)etter  than  any  of  the  compounds   bearing  that 
iiame^   as  it  merely  colours  your  sauce  or  soup, 
without    interfering    with    its    flavour.      When 
soups  and  gravies  are  kept  from  day  to  day, 
in    hot    weather,    they    sliould   be   warmed   up 
every  day,   and  put  into  fresh  scalded  tureens, 
or    pans ;    in   temperate    weather,    every    other 
day  may  be  enough.     We  hope  enough  has  now 
been  said,  to  put  the  common  cook  into  possession 
of  the  whole  arcana  of  soupmaking,  without  much 
trouble  to  herself,  or  expense  to  her  employers ; 
and  that  it  will  not  be  said,  in  future,  that  an  En- 
glishman only  knows  how  to  make  soup  in  his  sto- 
mach, by  swilling  down  a  large  quantity  of  ale, 
or  porter,  to  quench  the  thirst  occasioned  by  the 
meat  he  eats:   like  the  ingenious  foreigners  he 
may  now  make  his  soup  in  a  pot,  and  thus  save 
his  principal  viscera  a  great  deal  of  trouble. 

*^*  In  the  following  Receipts  rve  have  directed  the  spices  and 
■flavouring  to  he  added  at  the  usual  time;  but  it  would 
greatly  improve  the  soups,  if  ike  spices,  4c.,  as  well  as  wine, 
which  is  used  to  finish  them,  zcere  not  put  in  above  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes  before  they  are  done,  especially  if  the  spices 
are  pounded;  whole  spice  may  have  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 
A  continued  heat  soon  dissipates  the  spirit  ofwine,  and  eva^ 
porates  the  aroma  and  flavour  of  the  spices  andherhs- 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AXD  SOUPS. 

Since  writing  the  above,  the  following  corrobo- 
ration of  my  opinion  was  given  me  hy  that  scien- 
tific culinary  amateur,  Jp ictus  CccliiiSjjunr, 

"  The  great  fault  of  ancient  and  of  modern  cook- 
ery has  consisted  in  the  employment  of  the  vari- 
ous articles  of  seasoning  or  condiment,  which,  on 
the  application  of  heat,  have  been  evaporated, 
and,  from  the  volatization  of  their  more  subtle 
parts,  the  true  flavour  of  these  substances  have 
been  destroyed.  Wine,  spices,  anchovy,  and 
many  ingredients,  when  stewed  for  a  considerable 
time,  lose  the  best  part  of  their  flavour." 

«'A.  C.junr." 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 


Beef  Broth,     (No.  185.)* 

Wash  a  shin  of  beef  very  clean,  crack  the  bone 
in  two  or  three  places,  add  thereto  any  trimmings 
you  have  of  meat,  game,  or  poultry,  and  put 
them  into  two  gallons  of  cold  water,  in  an  open 
pot,  on  a  quick  fire ;  watch  it,  and  the  moment  it 
begins  to  simmer,  skim  it  carefully,  or  you  will 
lose  the  beauty  of  your  broth,  which  must  be 
perfectly  clear  and  limpid ;  on  this  depends 
the  goodness  of  the  soups,  sauces,  and  gravies,  of 
"which  it  is  the  basis :  then  add  a  quart  of  cold 
water,  to  make  more  scum  rise,  and  skim  it  again, 
and  when  the  scum  has  quite  done  rising,  put  in  one 
moderate-sized  carrot,  a  head  of  celery,  two  turnips, 
two  onions,  in  one  of  which  stick  three  cloves,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt :  cover  it  close,  and  set  it  by 
the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  very  gently  for 
four  or  five  hours,  according  to  the  weight  of 
your  meat :  when  it  is  reduced  to  about  six 
quarts,  strain  it  through  a  silk  or  tammis  sieve  : 
skimt  it  carefully,  and  set  it  in  the  coldest  place 
you  have.     The  quicker  it  cools  the  better. 

*  In  culinary  technicals,  is  first  stock, 
f  If  the  grease  is  left  on  the  top,  it  keeps  the  broth  frono 
cooling,  and  it  often  turns  sour. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  -,5 

f 

Ql)s.  —  This  is  the  universal  foundation   for  all  | 

sorts  o  J  soups  and  sauces,  brown  or   Avhite.      I  | 

Lave  ordered  it  to  slew  no  longer  than  the  meat  is  ^ 

thorcuglily  done  to  eat,  and  you  obtain  excellent 

])roth,  without  depriving"  the  meat  of  its  nutritions  ; 

succulence  :  to  boil  it  to  rags,  as  is  the  common  ' 

practice,  will  not  enrich  your  broths,    but  only 

make  them  thick  and   grouty,  and  destroy   llie  ; 

meat,    which  when  thus  gently  stewed  for  only  i 

four  or  five   hours,  will   afford   a  relishing   and  1 

wholesome  meal  for  half  a  dozen  people.     If  it  is  \ 

not  to  be  eaten  till  cold,  cut  the  meat  from   the  \ 

bones,   and  put  it  into  a  mould,  and  as  it  grows  i 

cold  it  will  take  a  shape,  and  will  make  a  very  i 

nice  dish  for  lunclieon  or  supper.  ] 

Beef  Gravy.     (No.   185.)  | 

Cover  the  bottom   of  a  stewpan,  that  is   well  { 

tinned  and  quite  clean,  with  half  a  pound  of  ham  or  i 
lean  bacon  cut  into  slices,  a  shin  of  beef,  or  six 

pounds  of  the  sticking-piece  cut  into  half  pound  I 

pieces,  with  a  carrot,    an  onion  with  two  cloves  : 
stuck  in  it,  and  a  head  of  celery;  put  a  pint  of 
broth   or  water  to  it,  cover  it  close,    and  set  it 

over  a  moderate  fire  till  the  water  is  reduced  to  i 

as  little  as  will  just  save  the  ingredients  from  burn-  \ 

ing  ;  then   put  in  four  quarts  of  boiling  water*;  ; 

when  it  boils  up,  skim  it  carefully,  and  wipe  off  i 

-with  a  clean  cloth  what  sticks  round  the   edge  j 

*  A  great  deal  of  care  is  to  be  fallen  to  watch  the  time  of  ] 

putting  in  the  water,  for  if  it  is  poured  in  too  soon,  the  gravy  j 

will  not  have   its  true  flavour  and  colour,  and  jf  let  alone  till  i 


the  meat  sticks  too  much  to  the  pan,  it  will  get  a  burnt  taste. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

and  inside  of  the  stewpan,  that  your  gravy  may 
be  delicately  clean  and  clear.  Set  it  by  the  side 
of  a  fire  where  it  will  stew  very  gently  for 
four  hours  :  if  it  has  not  boiled  too  fast,  there 
should  be  about  three  quarts  of  gravy ;  straia 
through  a  silk  or  tamrais  sieve;  take  very  particu- 
lar care  to  skim  it  well,  and  set  it  in  a  coid  place  '^. 

■  Beef  Broth,  for  Glaze,     (No,   187.) 

Put  a  large  quantity  of  beef  trimmings,  or  lean 
beef,  into  a  broth-kettle  ;  cover  them  with  cold 
water,  and  set  it  over  a  quick  fire,  till  it  boils  ; 
skim  it  well,  and  add  a  quart  of  cold  water,  to 
throw  up  the  scum  ;  skim  it  again,  and  set  it  to 
simmer  gently  four  or  five  hours,  then  strain  it 
through  a  napkin  that  has  been  wetted  and  wrung, 
or  through  a  silk  sieve,  or  tammis,  into  a  clean 
stone  or  china  pan,  and  let  it  remain  till  iwid  <\^y\ 
take  off  the  fat,  and  pour  the  broth  genXXy  (so  as 
to  leave  the  settling  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan) 
into  a  clean  stewpan,  set  it  over  a  very  clear  hot 
stove,  and  let. it  boil  away  as  quick  as  possible, 
till  it  is  reduced  to  a  strong  gluet  ;  you  must  take 


*  Called  in  some  cookery  books,  second  stock. 

t  The  French  use  three  different  names  to  signify  much  tlie 
same  thing;  viz.  consomme,  coulis,  and  restaurant.  The 
first  is  the  weakest  and  clearest,  and  is  often  made  with  a 
little  flour,  butter,  and  broti),  and. used  to  give  tiiicktiess  to 
sauces  and  soups  :  the  second  is  stronger,  of  meat,  and  is  for 
the  purpose  of  adding  goodness  and  strength  to  whatever  it 
is  mixed  with  ;  the  last  is  for  the  same  purpose,  and  made  as 
rich  in  taste  and  flavour,  as  meat,  game,  poultry,  and  proper 
seasoning  can  make  it. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

great  care  it  docs  not  burn.  It  should  be  of  a  fine 
yellow  colour,  and  transparent :  pour  it  into  little 
jars,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool,  but  dry  place. 

Ohs.  —  This  is  an  indispensable  preparation, 
giving  a  body  to  your  soups,  sauces,  and  ragouts, 
or  to  glaze  your  meat  with.  When  reduced  to 
this  state,  it  will  keep  for  several  months.  If  it  is 
for  present  use,  it  need  not  be  boiled  away  so  much, 
and  is  then  called  consomme^  or  essence  of  meat. 

Strong  Savoury  Beef  Gravy.     (No.  188.) 

Take  a  stewpan  that  will  hold  four  quarts,  lay 
a  slice  or  two  of  bacon  (about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick)  at  the  bottom,  a  couple  of  ounces  of  ham, 
(undressed  if  you  have  it,)  and  two  pounds  of 
beef,  a  carrot,  a  large  onion,  with  four  cloves 
stuck  in  it,  (that  the  end  of  the  cloves  may  not  tear 
the  tammis  when  the  sauce  is  strained,)  one  head 
of  celery,  a  bundle  of  parsley,  lemon-thyme,  mar- 
joram, and  savoury,  about  as  big  round  as  your 
little  finger  when  tied  close,  a  few  leaves  of  sweet 
basil,  (one  bay  leaf  if  you  like  it,)  a  piece  of  lemon- 
peel,  and  a  dozen  corns  of  allspice  :  pour  on  this 
half  a  pint  of  water,  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  sim- 
mer gently  on  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour,  in  which 
time  it  will  be  almost  dry ;  watch  it  very  carefully, 
and  let  it  catch  a  nice  brown  colour,  tarn  your  meat, 
let  it  brown  on  the  other  side,  then  add  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water*,  and  boil  very  gently  for 
an  hour  and  a  half.  It  is  now  rich  gravy  :  to 
convert  it  into 

*  The  general  rule  is  to  put  ia  as  many  quarts  of  water  as 
there  are  pounds  of  meat. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIESj  AND  SOUPS. 


Beef  Cull  is  J  or  rich  and  thickened  Gravj/, 
(No.  189.) 

Take  a  tablespoonful  of  the  thickening*.  No. 
257,  of  sauces,  end  put  it  into  a  basin,  with  a 
ladleful  of  the  gfavy ;  stir  it  quick  ;  then  add  the 
rest  by  degrees,  till  it  is  all  well  mixed,  then  pour 
it  back  into  the  stewpan,  where  the  meat,  &c.  is ; 
see  the  sauce  is  of  a  proper  thickness,  and  leave 
it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  for  half  an 
hour,  that  the  thickening  may  thoroughly  incor- 
porate with  the  gravy,  the  stewpan  being  only 
half  covered,  stirring  it  every  now  and  then  ; 
a  sort  of  scum  will  gather  on  the  top,  which  it  is 
best  not  to  take  off  till  you  are  ready  to  strain  it 
through  a  tamrais  *.  Take  care  it  is  neither  too 
pale  nor  too  dark  a  colour ;  if  it  is  not  thick 
enough,  put  it  into  a  clean  stewpan;  and  if  you 
wish  it  stronger,  let  it  stew  longer,  till  it  is  re- 
duced to  the  desired  thickness  :  if  it  is  too  thick, 
you  can  easily  thin  it  with  a  spoonful  or  two  of 
warm  broth,  or  water.  When  your  sauce  is  done, 
stir  it  in  the  basin  you  put  it  into  once  or  twice, 
■while  it  is  cooling. 

Familj/  Soup.    (No.  I90.) 
Put  on  eight  or  ten  pounds  of  brisket  of  beef  in  a 


*  A  tammis  is  a  worsted  cloth,  sold  at  the  oil  shops,  made 
on  purpose  for  straining  sauces ;  the  best  way  of  using  it  is 
for  two  people  to  twist  it  contrary  ways  :  this  is  a  mucli  bet- 
ter way  of  straining  sauce  than  through  a  sieve,  and  refines  it 
much  more  completely. 


BROTPIS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

gallon  of  water ;  let  this  come  very  gently  io  a 
simmer,  bordering  on  boiling  ;  skim  it  carefully; 
when  it  has  simmered  in  the  gentlest  manner  for 
four  or  iive  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
meat,  put  in  some  carrots  and  turnips  cut  into 
small  shapes,  and  two  heads  of  celery  cut  small ; 
stew  about  an  hour  and  a  half  longer,  and  the  soup 
is  ready  to  be  served  up. 

%*  So)}ie  are  fond  of  small  saet  dumplings,  as  big  as  n^ut- 
megs,  sent  up  in  the  tureen  zcith  the  soup. 

Ohs. — This  will  be  found  a  most  excellent  family 
soup,  nourishing,  and  delicious  to  most  palates. 
If  the  meat  be  simmered  for  three  hours  the  even- 
ing before  the  soup  is  wanted,  and  suffered  to 
stand  till  it  is  cold,  mucli  fat*  may  be  removed 
from  the  surface  of  the  soup,  is  extremely  delicate^ 
and  far  superior  for  all  the  purposes  that  drippings 
are  applied  to.  The  beef  will  be  a  most  excellent 
and  tender  bouilli ;  and  if  some  of  the  gravy  be 
thickened,  see  Receipt  No.  2.57,  and  some  minced 
ghirkins,  and  capers,  adtled  to  it,  and  poured 
into  the  dish,  and  over  the  meat,  it  will  make 
it  still  more  relishing  ;  carrots  and  turnips  cut,  as 
for  harricot  mutton,  may  be  added. 

Feal  Broth.     (No.  19 \.) 

A  knuckle  of  veal  is  best,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  undressed  ham  ;  m.anage  these  as  direct- 
ed in  tlie  receipt  for  beef  broth,  only  take  care 

*  See  "  VArt  de  Cuisinier,''  par  A,  Beauvillier.  Paris,  1814, 
page  68.  «  I  have  learned  by  experience,  that  of  all  the  fats 
that  are. used  for  frying,  that  which  is  taken  from  the  surface 
of  the  broth  and  stock-pot  is  by  far  the  best.". 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

not  to  let  it  catch  anj"  colour,  as  lliis  and  the  fol- 
lowing and  richer  preparation  of  veal,  are  chieli/ 
used  for  white  soups,  sauces,  &:c. 

Veal  Gravy.     (No.  192.) 

About  four  pounds  of  the  nut  of  the  leg  of  veal, 
cut  into  half  pound  slices,  wit!i  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  ham  in  small  dice,  prepared  like  tho 
beef  gravy,  but  a  great  deal  of  care  must  be  taken 
^o  watch  the  time  of  putting  in  i\\Q  water  ;  if  it  is 
poured  in  too  soon,  the  gravy  will  not  have  its  true 
flavour,  and  if  it  be  let  alone  till  the  meat  sticks 
too  much  to  tlie  pan,  it,  will  catch  too  much 
colour* 

Knuckle  of  Veal  Soup,     (No.  193.) 

A  knuckle  of  veal  of  nine  pounds  weight, 
will  make  two  tureens  of  excellent  soup,  and  is 
thus  easily  prepared  :  cut  a  pound  of  bacon  into 
slices  about  half  an  inch  thick,  lay  it  at  the  bottom, 
of  a  soup  kettle,  or  deep  stewpan,  on  this  the 
knuckle  of  veal,  having  first  chopped  the  bone  in 
two  or  three  places,  furnish  it  with  a  carrot,  a 
turnip,  a  head  of  celery,  a  large  onion,  vvilh  twQ 
or  three  cloves  stuck  in  it,  a  dozen  corns  of  black, 
and  the  same  of  Jamaica  pepper,  and  a  good  bun- 
dle of  lemon-thyme,  winter  savoury,  and  parsley. 
Cover  tlie  meat  with  cold  water,  set  it  over  a 
quick  fire  till  it  boils,  and  you  have  skimmed  it 
well,  then  remove  your  soup-kettle  to  the  side  of 
the  fire,  where  it  will  stew  very  gently  for  four 
hours,  till  it  is  quite  tender,    then  take  out  th« 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

bacon  and  veal,  and  set  it  by  <ill  it  is  cold,  and 
strain  the  soup,  and  set  it  by  in  a  cool  place  till 
you  want  it,  when  you  must  take  off  the  fat  you 
•will  find  on  the  surface  of  your  liquor,  and  decant 
it  (keeping  back  the  settlings  at  the  bottom,)  into 
a  clean  stew  pan  ;  put  three  tablespoonsful  of  the 
fat  you  have  taken  off  the  soup,  into  a  small  stew- 
pan,  and  mix  it  with  three  tablespoonsful  of  flour, 
pour  a  ladleful  of  soup  to  it,  and  mix  it  with  the 
rest  by  degrees,  and  boil  it  up  till  it  is  smooth. 
Cut  the  meat  and  gristle  of  the  knuckle,  and  the 
bacon  into  mouthfuls,  and  put  them  into  the  soup, 
and  let  them  get  warm. 

Ohs.  —  You  may  make  this  more  savoury 
by  adding  catsup,  or  thyme,  &c.  Shin  of  beef 
may  be  dressed  the  same  way. 

Mutton  Broth.    (No.  194.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  scrag  of  mutton,  let  it  lay 
in  some  cold  water  for  an  hour,  to  take  the  blood 
out,  then  put  it  in  a  saucepan,  with  three  quarts 
of  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  three  of  the 
best  grits,  a  large  onion,  some  thyme  and  knotted 
marjoram  ;  then  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  and  mind 
you  skim  it  well :  when  you  have  taken  all  the 
scum  off,  then  put  in  three  turnips,  and  let  it 
simmer  for  a  couple  of  hours,  and  strain  through 
a  clean  and  sweet  sieve. 

Obs,  — You  may  thicken  broth,  by  boiling  with 
it  a  little  oatmeal,  rice,  Scotch  or  pearl  barley. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS, 


Mock  Mutton  Broth,  without  Meat,  injive 
minutes.     (No.   195.) 

Boil  two  teaspoonsful  of  mushroom  catsup  ia 
three  quarters  of  a  phit  of  very  thin  gruel.  Season 
with  a  little  salt. 

The  Queens  morning  Broth,      (No.   196.) 

Sir  Kenelm  Digby,  in  his  closet  of  cookery, 
page  150,  London,  1669,  informs  us  was  made 
in  the  following  manner  : 

A  hen,  a  handful  of  parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme, 
three  of  spearmint,  a  little  balm,  half  a  great 
onion,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  clove,  as 
much  water  as  will  cover  them  ;  and  this  boiled 
tp  less  than  a  pint,  for  one  good  porrengerful. 

Hodge  Podge.     (No.  197.) 

Take  a  pound  of  rump  steaks,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  veal  cutlets  and  mutton  chops,  and  an  ox- 
heel,  cut  them  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square, 
put  the  whole  into  a  soup-pot,  with  an  ounce  of 
butter,  let  it  stew  softly,  and  turn  it  about,  that  it 
may  get  browned  all  over,  then  pour  in  five  pints 
of  water,  with  two  ounces  of  barley,  an  onion,  a 
small  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  or  three  drachms  of 
soup  herb  powder,  No.  459,  enclosed  in  a  bag,  three 
heads  of  celery,  a  couple  of  turnips  pared  and  cut 
in  two,  a  large  carrot  scraped  clean  and  split,  three 
blades  of  bruised  mace,  two  or  three  cloves,  and 
half  a  dozen  berries  of  black  pepper ;  cover  the 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

sonp-pot  very  close,  so  that  no  steam  can  evapo- 
rate :  if  (be  lid  does  not  fit  tight,  put  a  piece  of 
paper  over  the  pot,  and  then  put  the  lid  on  ;  let  it 
btew  very  gently  for  three  hours;  take  out  the 
spice,  sweet  herbs,  and  soup  roots,  pour  the 
rest  into  a  tureen,  or  soup  dish,  and  season  it  with 
a  little  salt. 

Ox-fieel.Jelli/.      (No.  198.) 

The  proportion  of  water  to  each  heel  is  about 
a  quart ;  keep  it  simmering  gently  for  three  or 
four  hours,  it  will  make  a  x^int  of  strong  jelly^ 
which  is  frequently  used  to  add  to  mock  turtle, 
and  the  calf's  feet  will  do  as  well. 

Jelly  Broth  of  Fragments.    (No.  199.) 

When  you  dress  a  large  dinner,  you  may 
make  good  broth,  at  very  small  cost,  by  taking 
care  of  all  the  trim.mings  and  parings  of  the  meat, 
game,  and  poultry  you  are  going  io  use  ;  wash 
them  well,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  as 
much  cold  water  as  will  cover  them  ;  set  your 
stewpan  on  a  hot  fire ;  when  it  boils,  take  off  all 
the  scum,  and  sef  it  to  boil  gently :  put  in  two 
carrots,  two  turnips,  a  large  onion,  three  blades 
of  pounded  mace,  and  a  head  of  celery  ;  some 
mushroom  parings  will  be  a  great  addition.  Let 
it  boil  gently  three  or  four  hours,  strain  it  through 
a  silk  sieve  into  a  clean  basin,  and  season  it  with 
salt. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,   AND    SOUPS, 


Ckm^  Gravy  Soup.     (No.  5200.) 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham   into  thin  slices 
and  lay  them  at  the  bottom  of  a  large  stewpan  or 
stockpot,  with  three  pounds  of  lean  beef,  and  a 
knuckle  of  veal  j  break  the  bones  and  lay  thera  on 
the  meat,    take  off  the  outer  skin   of  two  large 
onions,  stick  three  cloves  in  one  of  them,  and  cut 
the  other  into  slices,  and  two  turnips  ;  wash  and 
clean  a  couple  of  large  carrots,  two  heads  of  celery 
cut  in  pieces,  and  a  large  blade  of  mace,  pour  over 
these  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  cover  the  stewpan 
close,  and  set  it  over  a  smart  fire,  to  boil  quick, 
till  the  water  is  reduced,  and  the  meat  begins  to 
stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan  ;  turn  your  meat, 
&c.,  and  when  there  is  a  nice  brown  glaze  at  the 
bottom  of  the  stewpan,  add  four  quarts  of  clean 
boiling  water  :  watch  it,  and  when  it  is  coming 
to  a  boil,  put  in   half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and 
take  off  the  scum,  put  in  half  a  pint  more  cold 
water,  skim  it  again,  and  continue  to  do  so  till  no 
more  scum  rises,    then  set  it  on  one  side  of  the 
fire,  to  boil  gently  for  four  hours,  strain  it  through 
a  clean  napkin,  or  a  silk  sieve,  into  a  clean  China 
or  stone  pan,  let  it  remain  till  it  is  cold,  and  then 
remove  all  the  grease :  when   you  decant  it,  be 
careful  not  to  disturb  the  settlings  at  the  bottom 
of   the    pan :    the    liquor    should  be  of   a   fine 
amber  colour,  and  as  clear  as  rock  water  :  if  it  is 
not  quite  so  bright  as  you  wish  it,  put  it  into  a 
stewpiin,  and  break  two  whites  and  shells  of  eggs 
into  a  basin,  beat  them  well  together,  put  them 
into  the  soup,  set  it  on  a  quick  fire,  and  stir  it 
with  a  whisk  till  it  boils,  then  set  it  on  one  side  of 
u 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES;  AND  SOUPS. 

the  fire  to  settle  for  ten  minutes,  strain  it  tlirongh 
a  fine  napkin  into  a  basin,  and  it  is  ready.  How- 
ever, if  your  broth  is  carefully  skimmed,  it  will  be 
clear  enough,  without  clarifying,  which  im. 
pairs  the  flavour  of  the  broth  much  more  than  it 
improves  its  appearance.  ^ 

Obs. —  This  is  tlie  basis  of  almost  all  the  gravy 
soups,  wliicli  are  called  after  the  various  vege- 
tables that  are  put  into  them.  Carrots,  turnips, 
onions,  celery,  and  a  few  leaves  of  chervil,  make 
wliat  is  commonly  called  "  soup  sante  ;"  a  pint 
of  asparagus  peas,  and  a  cabbage  lettuce,  when 
they  can  be  had,  are  an  improvement;  with  rice, 
or  ocotch  barley,  with  Italian  paste,  or  m.accaroni, 
or  yermicelli,  or  celery  cut  into  lengths ;  it  will 
be  the  soup  usually  called  by  those  names, 
or  turnips  scooped  round  and  fried  in  butter,  or 
young  onions  prepared  in  the  same  way,  will  give 
you  a  clear  turnip,  or  onion  soup.  Whatever 
roots  and  vegetables  you  use,  must  be  parboiled 
first,  or  they  will  impregnate  the  soup  with  too 
strong  a  flavour.  The  seasoning  for  all  these 
soups  is  the  same,  salt,  a  little  sugar,  and  a  very 
little  Cayenne  pepper. 

Shin  of  Beef  Soup,     (No.  201.) 

Put  a  large  shin  of  beef  (after  having  sawed 
the  bone  into  several  pieces,)  into  a  stewpan,  with 
six  quarts  of  water,  two  teaspoonsful  of  salt,  to 
throw  up  the  scum,  which  must  be  carefully  and 
completely  removed  as  soon  as  it  appears  ;  then 
put  in  three  whole  onions,  three  carrots,  and  a 
couple  of  turnips,    cut  iu  pieces,  a  teaspoonful 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

of  whole  allspice,  and  the  same  of  black  pepper  : 
let  it  stew  very  gently  for  five  or  six  hours,  and 
strain  it  off  into  a  pan,  and  let  it  remain  till  next 
day.  When  the  meat  is  cold,  pick  out  all  the 
gristles  and  sinews  from  the  meat,  cut  them  into 
pieces  as  big  as  a  small  walnut,  and  lay  them  by  to 
put  into  the  soup  ;  the  rest  of  the  meat  (after  the 
skins,  &c.  arc  picked  out,)  pound  in  a  mortar, 
with  a  little  beaten  spice,  salt,  and  a  very  little 
butter,  and  make  it  into  potted  beef.  Next  morn- 
ifig  take  off  the  fat  from  the  soup,  cut  three  large 
onions  iirto  slices,  and  fry  them  a  fine  brown  (but 
do  not  let  them  get  burned)  in  some  of  the  fat  you 
have  taken  off  the  surface  of  your  soup  liquor ;  put 
these  into  a  clean  stewpan,  with  your  soup,  and 
the  gristles,  and  let  theni  simmer  together  for  half 
an  hour,  then  rub  down  four  tablespoonsful  of 
flour  in  ateacupful  of  soup,  add  two  tablespoons- 
ful of  mushroom  catsup,  and  one  of  browning  ; 
give  it  a  boil  up  for  five  minutes,  and  put  it 
through  a  sieve.     It  is  ready  for  table. 

Harrico  Mutton  Soup,     (No.  202.) 

Divide  a  large  neck  of  mutton  into  two  parts, 
put  the  scrag  end  into  a  stewpan,  with  four  large 
turnips,  and  two  carrots,  a  large  onion  cut  in  two, 
and  a  gallon  of  water ;  let  it  stew  gently  over  a 
slow  fire  for  two  hours,  till  the  mutton  is  done 
enough,  but  not  till  it  is  boiled  to  rags  :  then 
bruise  two  of  the  turnips,  and  one  of  the  carrots 
through  a  cullender,  and  put  them  into  the  soup, 
to  thicken  it :  cut  the  other  part  of  the  mutton 
into  chops,  fry  them  just  to  brown  them,  put 
them  to  the  soup,  and  stew  them  very  gently  till 
H  2 


BROTHS/GRAVIES,  AND  SOUP'S/ 

llic  chops  are  tender,  but  take  care  not  to  do  thevn 
to  rags  :  cut  ihe  other  turnips  and  carrot  into 
shapes,  and  put  them  in  the  soup  just  before 
you  take  it  up.  Send  it  up  in  a  soup-tureen  or 
dish. 

Mutton  Broth,  with  Cutlets.      (No.  203.) 

Cut  six  or  eio^ht  handsome  cutlcfs  off  the  best 
end  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  trim  off  some  of  the  fat, 
and  laj^  the  cutlets  on  a  plate  ;  take  the  scrag  and 
trimmings,  and  put  them  into  a  large  stewpan, 
^vith  a  gallon  of  water,  one  Iiead  of  celery,  and  a 
small  bundle  of  parsley  and  thyme  ;  set  it  on  the 
fire,  and  when  it  boils  skim  it  well,  and  \qX  it 
simmer  very  slowly  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  two 
hours  ;  strain  it  into  a  clean  stewpan,  or  broth  pot, 
and  have  ready  turnips,  carrots,  celery,  and  button 
onions,  of  each  a  small  teacupful,  cut  into  dice, 
or  scooped  with  a  turnip-scoop.  Put  the  cutlets 
and  the  roots  into  the  broth,  season  it  with  salt, 
and  let  it  stew  very  slowly  till  they  are  just  tender. 

Scotch  Barky  Broth,     (No.  204.) 

Chop  a  shin  of  beef  into  four  or  five  pieces,  put 
it  into  a  soup-pot,  with  two  gallons  of  cold  water, 
and  set  it  over  a  brisk  fire  till  it  boils  ;  skim  it  well, 
and  put  in  a  large  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  head  of 
celery,  and  a  small  bundle  of  parsley  and  thyme; 
let  it  stew  gently  for  three  hours,  then  strain  it 
into  a  clean  stewpan,  or  soup-pot,  take  off  the  fat, 
and  put  in  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  barley, 
well  washed  and  picked,  another  head  of  celery, 
two  turnips,  a  carrot,  and  an  onion,  cut  into  small 


BUOTIIS,  GRAVIES,  AND   SOVPS. 

dice,  iiud  let  it  boil  very  gently  till  the  barley  is 
soft,  which  will  take  about  two  hours  more,  then 
season  it  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Obs. — Instead  ofasliin  of  beef,  this  is  some- 
times made  with  a  neck,  or  breast  of  mutton,  or  a 
couple  of  sheep's  heads,  chopped  to  pieces. 

Scotch  Leek  Soup.     (Xo.  '205.) 

Yoii  may  make  tliis  soup  to  most  advantaf^e  the 
day  alterajoirvt  of-mutton  lias  been  boiled;  put 
tlie  liquor  the  mutton  has  bren  boiled  in,  into  a 
soup-pot,  with  four  large  leeks  cut  into  pieces  an 
irjcli  long,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  it 
boil  slowly  for  an  hour,  then  mix  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  oatmeal  with  half  a  pint  of  cold  water, 
till  it  is  quite  smooth  ;  pour  this  into  the  soup,  let 
it  simmer  gently  half  an  hour  longer,  and  send 
it  up  hot. 

Rice  Soup.     (No.  206.) 

Wash  and  pick  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice, 
put  it  into  a  quart  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  cold 
water,  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  boiled 
two  minutes,  put  it  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain  ;  put 
it  into  a  large  stewpan,  with  three  quarts  of  beef 
or  veal  broth;  (see  Receipts,  No  185  and  191  ;) 
let  it  boil  an  hour,  taking  oif  the  scum  as  it  rises, 
and  season  it  with  a  little  salt. 

Potatoe  Soup.     (No.  £07.) 

Peel  and  slice   a  dozen  potatoes,  half  a  dozen 
n3 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

onions,  and  three  or  four  heads  of  celery,  put 
them  into  a  stevvpan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  and  a  pint  of  water,  let  them  simmer  very 
slowly  for  about  an  hour,  then,  add  five  pints 
of  warm  water;  let  it  stew  on,  till  the  vegetables 
are  all  well  softened,  so  as  they  may  be  rubbed 
through  a  sieve.  Season  it  with  ground  black 
pepper  and  salt. 

Turnip  Soup.     (No.  208.) 

Make  a  gallon  of  clear  veal  or  beef  broth  ;  if  it 
is  not  perfectly  clear,  it  must  be  clarified*:  with 
a  turnip-scoop,  cut  eight  or  ten  turnips  that  are 
not  spongy,  into  round  balls,  about  as  big  as  a 
nutmeg,  do  not  wash  them,  but  put  tlicm  into  a 
stewpan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  fry  them 
of  a  fine  gold  colour,  dry  them  on  a  hair  sieve,  or 
a  sheet  of  paper,  put  them  into  the  soup;  set  it 
by  the  stove  to  boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
skim  it  carefully,  and  season  it  with  a  little  salt 
and  sugar ;  cut  some  crusts  of  bread  into  bits 
about  as  big  as  a  nutmeg,  dry  them  on  a  plate  be- 
fore the  fire,  put  some  into  the  soup,  and  send  up 
the  rest  on  a  plate. 

Turnip  Soup.     (No.  209.) 

Peel  and  wash  a  dozen  large  turnips,  (taking^ 
care  they  are  not  spongy,)  cut  them  into  thin 
slices,  and  put  them  into  a  clean  gallon  stewpan^ 
with  three  quarts  of  veal  broth,  or  the  liquor  that 
mutton,  or  beef,  or  veal  has  been  boiled  in,  (or 

*  See  Receipt,  No.  25!?, 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

warm  water,)  with  a  head  of  celery,  a  lara^c 
onion,  and  a  blade  of  beaten  mace ;  cover  the 
stew  pan  close,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  till  the 
vegetables  are  soft  enough  to  rub  through  a  tam- 
mis,  which  will  be  in  about  half  an  hour,  if  the 
turnips  are  good.  While  the  soup  is  boiling,  cut 
a  large  turnip  into  small  dice,  and  boil  them  till 
they  are  tender.  When  your  soup  is  done  enough, 
rub  it  through  a  tammis  into  a  clean  stew  pan,  sea- 
son it  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  put  the  turnip 
that  you  have  cut  into  dice  into  it ;  set  it  on  the 
lire  again  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  it  up.  Cut  a 
slice  of  bread  into  dice,  and  fry  it  as  we  have  di- 
rected in  the  receipt  for  pease  soup.  No.  218,  or 
the  crust  of  a  French  roll  cut  into  small  squares, 
and  dried  before  the  fire  and  sent  up  on  a  plate. 

Tta^nip  Soup,  the  French  IFai/.     (No.  210.) 

In  the  game  season,  it  is  very  seldom  that  phea- 
sants and  partridges  are  all  eaten  upon  a  gentleman's 
table,  consequently  it  will  be  easy  for  a  cook  to 
give  her  master  a  very  good  soup  at  a  very  little 
expense,  by  taking  all  the  meat  off  the  breasts, 
and  pounding  it  in  a  mortar  ;  and  beating  to  pieces 
the  legs  and  bones,  and  boiling  them  in  some 
broth  for  an  hour.  Boil  six  turnips,  mash  them, 
and  strain  them  through  a  tammis  cloth  with  the 
meat  that  has  been  pounded  in  a  mortar,  strain 
your  broth,  and  put  a  little  of  it  at  a  time 
into  the  tammis  to  help  you  to  strain  all  of  it 
through.  Put  your  soup-kettle  near  the  fire,  but 
60  not  let  it  boil ;  when  ready  to  dish  your  din- 
ner, have  six  yolks  of  eggs  mixed  with  half  a  pint 
of  cream,  strain  through  a  silk  sieve^  put  your 
H  4 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

soup  on  ihe  fire,  and  as  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  put 
in  {Jie  eo'gs,  and  stir  well  willi  a  wooden  spoon  ;  do 
not  let  it  boil,  as  it  v;ouid  curdle ;  look  it"  it  is  salt 

cnou^b. 

Ohs.  —  I  received  the  above  from  the  same 
nrtist  who  wrote  the  receipt  to  dress  Turtle, 
No.  250. 

Carrot  and  Turnip  Soup.  ^  (No.  211.) 

Put  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter  into  a  three 
quart  stewpan  ;  uiien  it  i.s  melted,  till  it  about  one 
third  full  with  carrots  and  turnips  cut  into  small 
squares;  shake  these  over  the  tire  for  ten  minutes, 
or  a  quarter  of  aaliour;  then  add  as  much  water 
as  will  nearly  till  the  saucepan,  and  after  letting  it 
stew  gently  for  an  hour,  slice  in  a  couple  of 
onions,  stew  for  two  hours  longer;  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  before  you  serve  up,  stir  in  a  teacupful  of 
I)read  raspings,  some  salt,  and  either  some  Cay- 
enne, or  common  pepper. 

Carrot  Soup,     (No.  2.1  S.) 

Scrape  and  wash  a  dozen  large  carrots,  and 
peel  oif  the  red  outsides,  which  is  the  only  part 
that  sliould  be  used  for  this  soup;  put  them  into 
a  gallon  stewpan,  with  one  liead  of  celery,  two 
large  onions,  and  two  turnips  cut  into  thin  pieces, 
the  same  as  the  carrots  ;  take  two  quarts  of  com- 
mon beef,  veal,  or  mutton  broth,  or  if  you  have 
any  cold  roast  beef  bones,  they  will  make  very 
good  broth  for  this  soup;  when  you  have  put  the 
broth  to  the  roots,  cover  the  stewpan  close,  and 
set  it  ou  a  slow  stove  for  two  hours  and  a  half, 


B  R  O  T II S,  G  Ft  A  V  X  ES,  A  N  D  S  6  U  P  S'. 

when  (he  carrots  will  be  soft  enough  16  rub 
til  rough  a  taramis,  or  hair  sieve,  with  a  wooden, 
spoon  ;  tlien  add  as  much  broth  as  will  make  it  a 
proper  thickness,  i.  e.  almost  as  thick  as  pease 
soup,  put  it  into  a  clean  stew  pan,  make  it  hot, 
season  with  a  little  salt,  and  send  it  up  with  some 
toasted  bread  cut  into  pieces,  half  an  inch  square  ; 
some  put  it  into  the  soup,  but  the  best  way  is  to 
send  it  up  on  a  plate,  as  a  side  dish. 

Obs. — This  is  a  very  elegant  soup,  and  neither 
expensive  nor  troublesome  to  prepare  :  inthe  kitch- 
en of  some  opulent  epicures,  the  roots  are  fried  in 
butter,  before  they  are  put  on  to  stew  :  if  this  is 
not  done  very  carefully,  and  with  very  nicely 
clarified  fat,  all  the  sweet  flavour  of  the  vege- 
tables will  be  overpowered  by  the  rank  cmpyreu- 
matic  savour  of  the  fryingpan. 

Parsnip  Soup,     (No.  21 3.) 

This  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  carrot 
soup;  it  is  unnecessary  to  recapitulate  the  lore- 
going  receipt. 

Celery  Soup.    (No.  214.) 

Splithalf  a  dozen  heads  of  the  whitest  celery 
you  can  get  into  slips  about  two  inches  long, 
wash  them  well,  and  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve  to 
drain,  and  put  them  into  three  quarts  of  veal 
gravy  (see  Receipt,  JNo.  192)  in  a  gallon  soup- 
pot  ;  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  to  stew  very 
gently  till  the  celery  is  tender  ;  (this  will  take 
tibout  an  hour).  If  any  scum  rises,  take  it  off, 
h5 


BROTHS;  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS'. 


Pease  Soup,    (No.  218.) 

To  one  quart   of  split  peas  (wbole    peas   are 
often   difficult  to  burst,)  put  one  gallon  of  soft 
water,  and  a  pound  of  bacon,  (not  very  fat,)  or 
roast   beef  bones,   or  four  anchovies,  or  instead 
of  the  gallon  of  water,    a  gallon   of  the  liquor 
in  which  meat  has  been  boiled,  tasting  it  first,  to 
make  sure  it  is  not  too  salt.     Wasli  two  heads  of 
celery,  cut  it,  and  put  it  in,  with  two  large  onions 
peeled,  a  sprig  of  savory,  and  sweet  marjoram; 
set  it  on  the  trivet,  and  let  it  boil  gently  over  a 
slow  tire,  stirring  it  every  quarter  of  an  hour  (to 
keep  the  peas  from  sticking  to  the  bottom,)  till 
the  peas  are  tender,  which  will  be  in  about  three 
hours;  then  work  it  through  a  coarse  hair  sieve, 
and  then  through  a  fine  one  with  tlie  back  of  a 
wooden  spoon  ;  put  it  into  a  clean  stewpan,  with 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  black  pepper  *,  let  it 
boil  again  for  icn  minutes,  and  if  any  fat  arises, 
skim  it  off.     You  may  put  in  a  head  of  celery  cut 
into  pieces   an  inch  long,  or  a  score  of  young 
button   onions.     Cut   a   slice  of  bread,  that  has 
been  baked  two  or  three  days,    into  dice   about 
half  an  inch  square;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  clean 
drippings  into  an  iron  fryingpan,  and  when  it  is 
melted,  put  in  the  bread,  and  fry  it  a  light  brown 
colour;  take  it  up  with  a  fish  slice,  and  lay  it  on  a 
sheet  of  paper  to   drain  the  grease;  be  careful 
this  is  done  nicely :  send  these  up  in  one  side 


*  Some  put  in  dried  mint  rubbed  to  a  fine  powder;  but  ns 
every  body  does  not  like  mint,  it  is  best  to  send  it  up  on  a 
,  plate. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUP'S. 

dish,  and  dried  and  powdered  mint  in  anotlier: 
Those  who  arc  for  a  high  relish,  may  have  some 
bacon  cut  into  small  squares  like  the  bread,  and 
fried  till  it  is  crisp,  and  sent  up  in  another  little 
dish. 

Obs.  —  The  most  economical  method  of  makins^ 
pease  soup,  is  to  save  the  bones  of  a  joint  of  roast 
beef,  and  put  them  into  the  liquor  a  leg  of  mutton 
has  been  boiUd  in,  and  proceed  as  in  the  above 
receipt.  A  hock,  or  shank  bone  of  ham,  or  a  ham 
bone,  or  the  root  of  a  tongue,  or  a  red  herring, 
are  favourite  additions  with  some  cooks ;  others 
send  up  rice  or  vermicelli  with  pease  soup*. 

Pease  Soup  without  Meat,     (No.  219.) 

A  pease  soup  may  be  made  savoury,  full  to 
the  palate,  and  most  excellent  and  agreeable, 
without  any  meat,  by  incorporating  two  ounces 
of  fresh  beef,  mutton,  or  pork  drippings,  with  two 
ounces  of  oatmeal,  and  mixing  this  w-ell  into  the 
gallon  of  soup,  made  as  in  the  first  receipt. 

Fease  Soup,  ami  Pickled  Pork,     (No.  220.) 

A  couple  of  pound  of  the  belly  part  of  pickled 
pork  will  make  very  good  pease  soup,  if  the  pork 


*  My  witty  predecessor,  Dr.  Hunter,  {see  Culina,  paee  97,) 
says,  "  U  a  proper  quantity  of  curry  powder  be  added  to 
pease  soup,  a  good  soup  might  be  made,  under  the  title  of  curry 
peas  soup,  lleliogabalus  offered  rewards  for  the  discovery 
ot  a  new  dish,  and  the  British  Parliament  have  given  notoriety 
to  inventions  of  much  less  importance  than  '  curry  peas 
soup.''' 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS, 

be  not  too  salt,  i.e.  if  it  lias  been  in  salt  more 
than  two  days,  it  must  be  laid  in  water  the  night 
before  it  is  used,  and  put  it  on  in  a  gallon  of 
water,  with  the  ingredients  mentioned  in  the  first 
receipt ;  let  it  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  put 
in  the  pork,  and  boil  very  gently  for  an  hour 
longer;  when  done,  wash  the  pork  clean  in  hot 
water,  and  send  it  up  in  a  dish,  and  the  soup  in  a 
tureen,  with  the  accompaniments  ordered  in  the 
first  receipt  for  pease  soup. 

Ohs, — The  meat  is  boiled  no  longer  than  to  be 
done  enough  to  eat;  thus  you  get  the  soup  witb- 
out  any  expense  of  meat  destroyed. 

Plain  Pease  Soup,     (No.  22 1 .) 

To  a  quart  of  split  peas,  and  two  heads  of  ce- 
lery, put  a  gallon  of  soft  water  ;  let  them  simmer 
gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  three  hours  ;  when 
they  are  well  softened,  work  them  through  a 
coarse  hair  sieve,  and  then  tlirough  a  fine  one, 
into  a  clean  stewpan,  with  two  teaspoonsful  of 
salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  black  pep- 
per. Prepare  fried  bread  and  dried  mint  as  in 
the  first  receipt  for  pease  soup,  and  send  them  up 
with  it  in  two  side  dishes. 

Ohs.  —  This  is  an  excellent  family  soup,  pro- 
duced with  very  little  trouble  or  expense  ;  most  of 
the  receipts  for  pease  soup,  like  those  preceding^ 
this,  are  crowded  with  ingredients  that  completely 
overpower  the  flavour  of  the  pea. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AXD  SOUP^, 


Asparagus  Soup,     (No.  222.) 

This  is  a  soup  made  with  (he  heads  of  aspara- 
gus, in  the  same  manner  as  the  green  pease  soup 
is  with  pease,  except  that  only  half  the  asparagus 
is  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  the  other  is  to  be  cut 
in  pieces  about  half  an  inch  long,  and  boiled  till 
tender,  and  sent  up  in  the  soup  ;  to  make  two 
quarts  of  good  soup,  there  must  be  half  a  pint  of 
heads  to  thicken  it,  and  another  half  pint  cut  in. 
This  soup  is  sometimes  made,  by  adding  the  aspa- 
ragus heads  to  common  pease  soup. 


TVater  Soup.     (No.  223.) 

Clean  four  carrots,  four  onions,  two  parsnips, 
and  two  heads  of  celery,  three  or  four  turnips,  a 
small  cabbage,  half  a  pint  of  split  peas,  a  leek, 
and  a  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs  ;  put  them  inta 
a  saucepan  with  five  pints  of  cold  water,  place  it 
over  a  slow  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  three 
hours ;  work  your  ingredients  through  a  cullen- 
der into  a  clean  stewpan,  and  season  it  with  pep- 
per and  salt ;  send  it  up  hot,  with  fried  bread  cut 
into  dice,  the  same  as  directed  with  pease  soup. 

Maigre  Gravy  Soup.     (No.  224.) 

Peel  and  wash  six  large  onions,  two  carrots, 
two  turnips,  and  two  parsnips,  and  a  head  of 
celery;  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  and  put  (hem 
into  a  large  stewpan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  ;  set  the  stewpan  over  a  quick  fire,  stir 
in  some  flour,  and  let  them  fry  till  they  have  got 


BROTHS,    GRAVIES,  AND  SOI^PS. 

■well  browned  ;  pour  to  them  a  gallon  of  boilin^^ 
water,  a  pint  of  split  peas,  some  bread  raspings, 
or  stale  crusts,  and  two  blades  of  bruised  mace,  or 
three  cloves,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  black  pep- 
per, and  salt  enough  to  season  it  ;  let  it  .siew  very 
gently  for  two  hours,  and  strain  through  a  tani- 
mis:  by  this  method  your  soup  will  be  as  well 
coloured,  and  the  flavour  as  good,  as  if  it  were  made 
with  gravy.  The  last  thing,  put  in  either  small 
onions,  turnips,  or  celery,  which  you  will  have 
ready  boiled  for  the  purpose ;  send  up  toasted 
bread  cut  into  dice,  in  a  dish,  and  any  dried  herbs 
you  please  in  another  dish. 

Obs.  —  The  French  sometimes  add  to  this, 
(which  much  improves  it,)  a  couple  ofthe  sea  ducks 
called  Macreuse,  which  feed  upon  muscles,  and 
being  of  a  fishy  nature,  may  be  eaten  on  fiist  days. 

Fish  Soup,     (No.  225.) 

You  may  make  this  with  a  cod's  skull,  or  three 
pounds  of  eels,  or  three  pounds  of  skate,  or  half  a 
dozen  flounders  ;  cut  them  to  pieces,  put  them  on 
to  stew  in  three  quarts  of  water,  season  it  with 
four  blades  of  bruised  mace,  an  onion  with  four 
cloves  stuck  in  it,  a  head  of  celery,  some  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  or  three 
drachms  of  soup  herb  powder  :  cover  them  down 
close,  and  after  they  have  simmered  gently  for  ti 
couple  of  hours,  pass  the  liquor  through  a  hair 
sieve  into  a  clean  stewpan  ;  while  this  is  doing, 
beard  a  pint  of  oysters,  and  pound  them  in  a  mor- 
tar with  the  yolks  of  three  hard  eggs,  and  a  little 
pepper  and  salt  3  let  all  boil  up  together  till  it  is 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES^  AXD  SOUPS. 

the  thickness  of  crcajii,  pom  it  into  your  tureen', 
and  send  it  to  table. 

Onion  Soup  Maigre.     (No.  226.) 

Take  half  a  dozen  large  onions*,  two  carrots, 
two' heads  of  celery,  and  one  turnip;  slice  those 
very  tiiin,  and  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but(er 
into  a  stewpan;  when  it  boils,  which  you  \\i\\ 
know  by  its  leaving  off  scolding,  put  in  the  above 
ingredients,  and  fry  them  till  they  are  brown, 
but  take  care  not  to  burn  them  ;  then  add,  by  de- 
grees, either  three  quarts  of  thin  pease  soup,  or 
boiling  water,  two  anchovies,  four  blades  of  mace, 
and  some  whole  black  pepper,  and  two  penny 
rolls;  boil  up  together  till  the  bread  is  reduced  io 
a  pulp  ;  work  it  through  a  coarse  hair  sieve,  and 
set  it  again  upon  the  fire ;  skim  it  well,  thicken  it 
with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  pass  it  through  a 
sieve  again;  send  up  with  it  fried  bread  cut 
into  the  form  of  dice,  or  a  French  roll  cut  into 
small  bits  and  dried  before  the  fire.  ' 

Brozvn  Soup  Maigre.    (No.  227.) 

Put  a  gallon  of  water  into  a  sonp«pot,  with 
three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  bread-raspings  tp 
thicken  it ;  throw  in  two  or  three  onions  sliced, 
two  or  three  cloves,  a  teaspoonful  of  whole  black 
pepper,  the  same  of  salt  ;  boil  up  together  for 
about  half  an  hour,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve. 
Take  some  carrots,  and  a  head  of  celery  cut  into 


*  Two  or  three  dozen  very  small   onions  are  sometimes 
used  for  a  change,  fried  in  the  same  manner,  whole. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

bits,  and  fry  them  in  butter ;  put  them  to  tire 
soup,  let  it  go  on  simmering  till  these  are  tender  : 
if  not  brown  enough,  colour  it  with  a  little  burnt 
sugar,  for  which  you  have  a  receipt.  No.  322,   ! 

Soup-Hei^b  Soup,  in  Tweiity  Minutes, 
(No.  228.) 

To  malie  a  quart,  put  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a 
two  quart  stewpan,  with  a  middling  sized  onion 
chopped  small,  fry  it  till  it  is  a  little  brown,  then 
add  two  large  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  and  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  soup-herb  powder,  No.  459,  or  one  of 
dried  parsley,  one  of  savory,  and  one  of  lemon- 
thyme,  or  basil,  six  berries  of  black,  and  the  same 
quantity  of  Jamacia  pepper  pounded,  and  half  a 
bay-leaf;  stir  them  together,  and  pour  to  them  by 
degrees  a  quart  of  boiling  water  ;  when  it  is  well 
mixed,  let  it  boil,  for  ten  minutes  ;  add  a  wine- 
glass of  table  beer,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  catsup 
or  browning,  season  with  salt,  and  rub  it  through 
atammis,  or  tine  hair  sieve  ;  toast  a  slice  of  bread, 
cut  it  into  pieces  three  quarters  of  an  inch  square, 
and  send  up  on  a  plate. 

Obs.  —  This  lias  the  advantage  of  being  very 
quickly  prepared  at  a  very  moderate  expense. 

Soon  made  Sat'ou7y  Soup.     (No.  229.) 

Put  four  ounces  of  oatmeal  into  a  basin,  and 
mix  it  well  with  three  ounces  of  clean  drippings 
of  pork,  beef,  or  mutton;  mix  this  by  degrees 
^>ith  a  galloxi  of  soft  water,  add  to  it  a  tablespoon- 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

ful  of  the  soup-herb  powder  %  No.  439,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
black  pepper,  and  same  of  allspice;  let  it  simmer, 
and  stir  it  together  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  and  it 
is  ready. 

Obs,  —  Those  who  have  not  tasted  this,  will 
not  easily  imagine  what  a  delicious  meal  is  pro- 
duced by  the  combination  of  these  cheap  and 
homely  ingredients. 

Dripping  Soup.     (No.  230.) 

Wash  five  ounces  of  barley,  and  put  it  on  to 
boil  on  a  slow  fire  in  six  quarts  of  water;  skim  it 
carefully,  and  when  it  is  reduced  to  about  five 
quarts,  put  on  a  head  of  celery,  or  half  a  drachtn 
of  celery  seed,  and  a  large  onion,  and  let  it  boil 
another  hour,  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  gallon  ;  put 
four  ounces  of  oatmeal  into  a  basin,  mix  it  well 
with  three  ounces  of  clean  drippings,  and  these 
by  degrees  with  the  above  liquor,  adding  to  it  a 
tablespoonful  of  tlie  soup-herb  savoury  pow- 
der, and  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  black  pepper, 
and  two  teaspoonsful  of  salt;  let  all  boil  up  to- 
gether for  a  few  minutes  till  it  is  well  incorpo- 
rated. 

*^*  Dripping  intended  for  sovp^  should  be  taken  out  of  the 
pan  almost  as  soon  as  it  has  dropped  from  the  meat ;   if  it  is 
not  quite  clean  and  nice,  clarifi/  it.     See  Receipt,  No.  83. 
For  various  receiptsfor  economical  caokeri/y  see  Mrs.  ilic/- 
roe's  book,  azaork  of  great  ingcnuitj/  and  originality. 


*  Ifyouhaveno  soup-herb  powder,  use  two  teaspoonsfcil 
of  dried  and  pounded  parsley,  one  of  winter  savory,  one  ot 
leraou-thyme,  and  a  quarter  of  u  dracbm  of  celery  seed. 


Ohs.  —  If  the  fi^enerally  received  o})inion  ht 
true,  that  animal  and  vegetable  foods  afford  nou- 
iishment  in  proportion  \o  the  quantity  of  oil,  jelly, 
mucilage,  and  sugar  that  can  be  cxtrnctcd  from 
f  iiera ;  these  soups  have  strong  claims  to  the  at- 
tention of  tlie  rational  economist. 

Vermicelli  Soup,     (No.  231.) 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli  info  a 
quart  stewpan,  -with  a  pint  of  cold  water;  when  it 
boils,  take  it  out,  and  put  it  on  a  hair  sieve  io 
drain;  then  put  it  into  cold  water  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  drain  it  on  a  liair  sieve  again  ;  hav6 
ready  two  quarts  of  veal  gravy,  made  as  in  re^ 
ceipt;  JNo.  192,  put  tins  iiito  a  clean  gallon  stew- 
pan,  put  the  vermicelli  io  it,  \(:i  it  boil  a  few 
minutes,  season  it  with  salt,  and  send  it  up  hot, 
with  the  crust  of  a  French  roll,  cut  into  pieces 
the  size  of  a  sixpence,  on  a  side  dish. 

Vermicelli  Soup  White.     (No.  232.) 

Put  tw^o  quarts  of  veal  broth,  made  as  in  receipt 
No.  lUl,  into  a  clean  gallonstewpan  ;  put  it  on  the 
stove,  and  when  it  boils,  mix  the  yolk  of  three  eggs 
with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a  little  salt;  strain 
it  through  a  hair  sieve  into  the  soup  ;  stir  it  quick, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle;  send  it  up 
as  quick  as  possible. 

Maccaro72i  So?ip.    (No.  253.) 

Boil  six  ounces  of  maccaroni  in  water  for  four 
minufesj  lay  it  on  a  hair  sieve  that  all  the  water 


BROTHS,  GPwAVIES,   AND  SOUPS. 

may  drain  from  it ;  put  into  a  sfewpan  again,  with' 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  a  bay  leaf,  an 
onion,  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  and  half  a  pint 
of  broth  or  water ;  let  it  simmer  in  the  corner  of 
the  stove  till  done. 

To  make  your  soup,  you  must  have  one  pound 
of  good  lean  ham,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  an  old 
fowl ;  cut  your  ham  in  slices,  and  lay  them  at 
the  bottom  of  a  large  stewpan,  cut  your  veal  to 
pieces  and  your  fowl,  and  put  them  to  the  ham, 
with  a  ladleful  of  broth,  or  water  ;  set  your  stew- 
pan  on  tlie  fire,  and  let  it  reduce  till  it  begins  to 
stick  to  the  stewpan,  then  cover  your  meat  with 
broth,  or  water,  skim  it  well,  put  in  some  salt, 
witli  two  carrots,  one  onion,  two  cloves,  a  head  of 
celery,  two  turnips,  and  one  parsnip  ;  let  it  sim- 
mer four  or  live  hours,  then  strain  the  liquor 
through  a  hair  sieve  ;  three  quarts  is  all  you  must 
expect,  if  you  like  to  have  good  soup  ;  then  have 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  parmesan  cheese 
grated  ;  when  ready  to  dish,  take  away  the  onion 
and  bay  leaf  from  the  maccaroni,  put  at  the  bottom 
of  your  tureen, a  bed  of  maccaroni,  then  a  bed  of 
parmesan  cheese,  and  so  on,  till  all  is  in  ;  pour 
your  soup  over,  and  send  it  up  as  hot  as  possible. 

"^^"^  Exerxi  article  employed  in  this  soup  must  be  of  the  very 
best  quality  ;  it  is  seldom  well  made  in  this  country, 

Maccaroni  Soup,  the  new  zvay,     (No.  234.) 

This  is  called  in  the  French  kitchen,  "  Potage 
a  la  Ca?nera?2iy'  the  erudite  gourmand  who  invent- 
ed it. 

Prepare  your  maccaroni  and  broth  as  in  the  last 
receipt,  mince  fine  all  the  vegetables  that  have 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AISID  SOUPS. 

been  boiled  in  the  broth,  with  two  dozen  of  fowls' 
livers  that  have  been  parboiled,  chop  these,  and 
mix  with  the  vegetables,  and  lay  a  bed  of  these 
ingredients  between  the  maccaroni  and  tlie  cheese, 
of  which  you  will  want  a  pound. 

%*  This  is  one  of  the  last  productions,  mid  the  reigning 
favourite  qfthe'Frcnch  kitchen,  xohcre  the  desirefor  novelty 
'is  insatiabk,  and  folios  might  be  filled  zcith  their  innumerit- 
hle  receipts  for  soups. 

Cray  Fish  Soup,     (No.  9.^5^ 

This  soup  is  sometimes  made  with  beef  broth, 
and  sometimes  with  fish,  in  the  following  manner. 

Take  two  or  three  flounders,  eels,  gudgeons, 
&c.  and  set  them  on  to  boil  in  a  gallon  of  cold 
water  ;  when  it  is  pretty  nigh  upon  boiling,  scum 
it  well,  and  put  in  a  couple  of  onions,  and  as 
many  carrots  cut  to  pieces,  and  some  parsley,  a 
dozen  berries  of  black  and  Jamaica  pepper,  and 
about  half  a  hundred  cray-fish  ;  take  off  the 
small  claws,  and  shells  of  the  tails,  and  pound 
Ihem  fine,  and  boil  them  with  your  broth  about 
an  hour  ;  strain  off,  and  break  in  some  crusts  of 
bread  to  thicken  it,  and  if  you  can  get  it,  the 
spawn  of  a  lobster,  (the  inside  spawn  gives  the 
most  colour,)  pound  it  and  put  to  your  soup,  and 
let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  a  couple  of  minutes, 
put  in  your  cray-fish,  make  hot,  and  send  up. 

Ohs,  —  One  of  my  predecessors  recommends 
*•  cray-fish  pounded  alive,  as  an  ingredient  in  his 
broth."  to  sweeten  the  sharpness  of  the  blood. 
—Vide  Clermonfs  Cool-ery^  page  5,  8vo.  Lon- 
don, 1776. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 


Praxvn^  or  Shrimp  Soup,     (No.  235.) 

Prawns,  or  shrimps,  make  an  excellent  soup 
done  just  in  the  same  manner;  but  there  is  a 
*mali  bag  in  the  carcass  full  of  gravel,  which 
must  be  taken  out  before  you  pound  them  for 
stock.  You  use  only  the  tails  of  the  prawn,  but 
the  cray-fish,  body  and  all,  except  the  legs  and 
shells. 

Lobster  Soup.     (No.  9.S7) 

To  make  a  most  elegant,  nutritious,  and  de- 
licious lobster  soup,  take  four  large  live  young 
hen  lobsters,  pick  out  all  the  eggs,  or  outside  live 
spawn,  then  boil  the  lobsters  in  salt  and  water  for 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  according  to  their  size; 
when  cold,  split  the  tails,  take  out  the  fish,  crack 
the  claws,  and  cut  the  meat  into  raouthfuls  :  take 
out  the  coral  and  soft  part  of  the  body,  bruise 
part  of  the  coral  in  a  mortar,  pick  out  the  fish 
from  the  chines,  beat  part  of  it  with  the  coral,  and 
with  this  make  force-meat  balls  finely  seasoned 
with  mace,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  grated  lemon-peel, 
and  boil  them  in  a  little  of  your  veal  broth.  Make 
a  gallon  of  veal  broth  as  per  receipt  No.  191,  sea- 
son it  with  mace,  nutmegs,  and  a  little  sweet  basil ; 
take  the  live  spawn  and  bruise  it  in  a  marble 
mortar  with  a  little  of  your  veal  broth,  rub  it 
through  a  sieve,  and  add  it  to  your  soup  with  the 
meat  of  the  lobsters,  and  the  remaining  coral ;  let 
it  simmer  very  gently  for  ten  minutes  ;  have 
ready  the  yolks  of  six  fresh  eggs,  beat  them  up  well 
with  a  little  of  the  soup,  and  just  give  it  a  warm 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

head,  lay  it  on  a  dish,  pour  the  soup  through  a 
line  sieve  into  a  stone-ware  pan,  and  set  them  by 
in  a  cool  place  till  the  next  day; — then  set  the 
soup  on  to  boil  away,  till  it  is  reduced  to  three 
quarts;  put  two  ounces  of  butter*  into  a  gallon 
stewpan;  when  it  is  melted,  throw  into  it  two 
large  tablespoonsful  of  flour ;  when  they  are  well 
mixed  together,  and  browned  by  degrees,  pour 
to  this  your  soup,  and  stir  it  well  together  for  half 
an  hour,  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  clean 
stewpan,  and  put  to  it  the  meat  of  the  head  (which, 
while  your  soup  has  been  going  on,  you  have  cut 
into  pieces  about  an  inch  and  a  half  square) ;  let  it 
stew  half  an  hour  longer,  and  season  it  with  Cay- 
enne pepper,  salt,  and  a  glass  of  good  white  wine, 
or  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy. 

Ox  Tail  Soup.     (No.  240.) 

Two  tails  will  make  a  tureen  of  soup  ;  cut  them 
in  pieces  at  the  joints,  and  lay  them  to  soak  in 
warm  water,  while  you  get  ready  your  gravy  and 
vegetables.  If  you  wish  it  to  be  very  rich,  cut 
into  slices  half  a  pound  of  bacon,  and  a  pound  of 
gravy  beef,  put  them  into  a  two  gallon  stewpan, 
"Nvith  a  quarter  pint  of  cold  water,  a  head  of  ce- 
lery, two  onions,  with  four  cloves  stuck  in  one  of 
them,  a  dozen  berries  of  allspice,  the  same  of 
black  pepper,  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  and  a 
bundle  of  savory,  lemon-thyme,  and  parsley  ; 
put  your  stewpan  over  a  slow  lire  till  the  meat 
looks  brown,  turn  it  about,  and  let  it  get  a  little 
colour ;  then  put  in  the  tails,  with  three  quarts  of 

*  (>  tliiekeivwlth  fat skininiHig^)  as  in  thenext  receipt. 


DROTIIS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

boiling  water,  make  it  boil  quick,  and  skim  it 
carefully,  as  long  as  you  see  any  scum  rise  ;  then 
cover  your  pot  as  close  as  possible,  and  set  it  on 
the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep  simmering  till  the  meat 
becomes  tender  ;  this  will  require  two  or  three 
hours ;  mind  it  is  not  done  too  much  :  when  per- 
fectly tender,  take  out  the  meat,  skim  the  fat  off 
your  broth,  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve ;  to 
thicken  it,  put  four  tablespoonsful  of  the  fat  you 
have  taken  off  the  broth  into  a  clean  stewpan, 
with  four  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  set  them  over 
the  fire,  and  stir  them  well  together  for  five 
minutes,  pour  in  the  broth  by  degrees,  stirring  it 
and  mixing  it  with  the  thickening;  let  it  boil 
twenty  minutes  till  it  is  quite  smooth,  strain  it 
through  a  tammis  into  a  clean  stewpan,  put  in  the 
tails,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup, 
and  one  of  browning,  or  Ball's  cavice,  and  the 
same  of  wine,  and  season  it  with  salt. 

Hare  Soup     (No.  241.) 

Is  one  of  the  best  ways  of  dressing  an  old  hare, 
which,  when  it  is  so  tough  as  to  defy  the  teeth  in 
any  other  form,  will  make  excellent  soup. 

Cut  off  the  legs  and  shoulders,  and  divide  the 
body  crossways,  stew  it  very  gently  in  a  gallon  of 
water,  with  two  ounces  of  lean  ham  or  bacon,  four 
carrots,  two  onions,  with  four  cloves  stuck  in 
them,  two  blades  of  pounded  mace,  and  a  bundle 
of  sweet  herbs,  till  the  whole  is  tender :  the  time 
this  will  take,  depends  very  much  upon  the  age 
of  the  hare,  and  how  long  it  has  been  kept  before 
it  is  dressed  ;  as  a  general  rule,  say  three  hours  : 
when  it  is  quite  tender,  take  the  meat  off  the  back, 
i2 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and  lay  it  aside ;  cut  the 
rest  of  the  meat  off  the  legs  and  shoulders,  mince 
it,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  and  rub  it  through  a 
hair  sieve,  to  make  thickening  for  the  soup  ;  put 
in  the  meat  of  the  back,  season  with  a  little  nut- 
meg and  salt,  a  glass  of  port  wine,  and  a  few 
grains  of  Cayenne  pepper. 

Obs.  —  Cold  roast  hare  will  make  excellent 
soup.  Chop  it  in  pieces,  and  stew  it  in  three 
quarts  of  water  for  about  an  hour,  and  manage  it 
as  in  the  above  receipt ;  the  stuffing  of  the  hare 
•will  be  a  very  agreeable  substitute  for  sweet  herbs 
and  seasoning. 

Partridge  Soup,     (No.  242.) 

If  you  have  two  or  three  birds  that  are  too  old 
to  send  up  as  roasts,  pick  and  draw  them,  cut 
them  into  three  or  four  pieces,  and  put  them  into 
a  large  stew  pan  with  a^  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean 
liara,  a  large  carrot,  a  turnip,  two  onions,  two 
heads  of  celery,  a  dozen  corns  of  alls^iice,  and  the 
same  of  black  pepper,  two  blades  of  mace,  and 
two  or  three  cloves  finely  pounded  i  pour  in  a 
pint  of  cold  water,  set  the  stewpan  over  a  quick 
fire,  and  watch  it  till  the  water  has  all  boiled 
away  ;  take  care  it  does  not  burn  :  when  the  par- 
tridges and  ham  have  taken  a  good  browning,  add 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  or  beef  or  veal  broth 
is  better,  if  you  have  it;  let  it  stew  slowly  for  two 
hours,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean 
stewpan.  Take  three  whites  and  shells  of  eggs, 
beat  them  well  with  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and 
pour  it  into  the  soup,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  just 
when  it  is  going  to  boil  take  it  off,  and  set  it  on  one 


AND  SOUPS. 

side  of  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  strain  through  a 
taramis,  or  very  tine  napkin,  season  it  with  Cay- 
enne pepper  and  salt,  make  it  hot,  and  send  it 
up  (in  a  side  dish)  with  the  crusts  of  two  French 
rolls  cut  into  bits  as  big  as  a  sixpence. 

Soup  xvithout  TVater.     (No.  243.) 

Cut  into  thin  slices  six  pounds  of  lean  beef, 
and  the  same  of  veal,  put  them  into  a  stone  jar 
with  a  dozen  large  turnips,  peeled,  washed,  and 
cut  in  slices,  two  onions,  and  a  li(tle  salt  \  cover 
the  jar  very  close,  so  that  no  steam  can  evaporate, 
and  set  it  on  some  hay  (to  keep  the  j  ir  steady)  in 
a  large  saucepan  half  full  of  boiling  water,  keep 
a  kettle  of  water  boiling,  to  fill  this  up  as  it 
■wastes,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  to  boil  gently  for 
iive  hours  ;  strain  your  soup  through  a  silk  sieve 
into  a  clean  stewpan  ;  have  ready  boiled  a  carrot, 
a  turnip,  and  an  onion,  cut  neatly  into  small  dice; 
put  them  into  the  soup,  let  them  get  warm  in  it, 
and  send  up  hot,  with  toasted  bread  cut  into  little 
pieces  on  a  plate. 

Ohs.  —  This  is  certainly  the  very  quintessence 
of  meat,  and  **  ne  plus  ultra"  of  rapidly  restora- 
tive and  immediately  assimilating  nourishment, 
but  it  can  only  be  served  at  those  tables  where 
the  mistress  of  the  mansion  never  looks  at  the 
butcher's  bill. 

Giblet  Soup,    (No.  244.) 

Scald  and  clean  three  sets  of  goose,  or  five  sets 
of  duck  giblets,  (leaving  out  the  livers,)  wash 
i3 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

them  well  in  warm  wafer,  in  two  or  tbree  waters  ; 
divide  the  gizzards  and  necks  into  moiitJifuls,  and 
crack  the  bones  of  the  legs  ;  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  gallon  of  cold  water :  when  they  boil, 
lake  oiF  the  scum  as  it  rises,  set  them  to  stew  very 
gently,  till  the  gizzards  are  quite  tender ;  this  will 
take  about  two  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
giblets :  take  them  up  carefully  with  a  skim- 
mer, or  large  spoon  full  of  holes,  put  them  into 
cold  water,  and  wash  them  well.  Put  the  liquor 
they  were  boiled  in  on  the  fire  again,  with  a  bun- 
dle of  common,  or  lemon-thyme,  knotted  or  sweet 
marjoram,  and  winter  savory,  an  onion  with  four 
cloves  stuck  in  it,  six^berries  of  allspice,  the  same 
of  black  pepper,  three  blades  of  mace  beaten  to 
fine  powder,  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup^ 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine. 
Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  quart  stewpan,  stir 
in  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  into  a  paste  ;  then 
pour  to  it  a  ladleful  of  your  giblet  liquor,  mix  it 
thoroughly  together,  and  pour  it  into  the  stewpan 
that  has  the  giblet  liquor  in  it;  stir  it  well  to- 
gether, and  let  it  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour 
longer :  strain  your  soup  through  a  tammis  into 
the  kireen,  and  add  the  giblets  to  it,  and  serve  up. 
There  should  be  three  quarts  of  soup. 

Obs.  —  Thus  managed,  a  set  of  goose  giblets 
will  make  a  quart  of  healthful,  nourishing,  and 
agreeable  soup  :  if  you  think  the  giblets  alone  will 
not  make  the  soup  strong  enough,  j^ou  may  add  a 
pound  of  gravy  beef,  a  few  leaves  of  sweet  basil, 
the  juice  of  half  a  Seville  orange  or  lemon,  and 
half  a  glass  of  white  wine,  to  each  quart  of  soup. 
Those  who  are  fond  of  forcemeat,  may  slip  the 
skin  off  the  neck,  tie  up  the  end,  and  fill  it  with 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

the  following  stuffing  :  mince  fine  some  sage,  and 
a  couple  of  eggs  boiled  hard,  a  teacupful  of  bread 
crumbs  moistened  with  a  little  milk,  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  and  some  pepper  and  salt  well  incorpo- 
rated together  with  a  little  melted  butter,  tie  up  the 
other  end  tight,  put  them  into  the  soup  about  half 
an  hour  before  you  take  it  up. 

Mock  Mock  Turtle,  as  made  by  E.  Steven- 
son, Cook  to  Sir  Simon  Clark,  Bt,^ 
East  Barnet,  Middlesex.     (No.  245.) 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  that  will  hold 
^Ye.  pints,  with,  an  ounce  of  nice  bacon,  or  ham, 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  lean  gravy  beef,  a  cow 
heel,  the  inner  rind  of  a  quarter  of  a  carrot,  a 
sprig  of  lemon-thyme,  winter  savory,  three  times 
the  quantity  of  parsley,  two  green  leaves  of 
sweet  basil  *,  and  two  shallots  ;  make  a  bundle  of 
these,  and  tie  up  in  it  a  couple  of  blades  of  mace  : 
put  in  a  large  onion,  with  four  clovest  stuck  in  it, 
twelve  corns  of  allspice,  the  same  of  black  pep- 
per ;  pour  on  these  a  quarter  pint  of  cold  water, 
cover  your  stewpan,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire  to 
boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hsur ;  then,  for  fear 
your  meat  should  catch,  take  oflf  the  cover,  and 

*  To  this  fine  aromatic  herb,  the  turtle  is  much  indebted 
for  the  spicy  flavour  it  imparts  to  the  soup,  and  the  high  es- 
teem it  is  held  in  by  all  good  citizens  of  London,  who,  I  be- 
lieve, are  pretty  generally  of  the  same  opinion  as  Dr.  Salmon. 
See  his  "  Household  Dictionari/,  and  Essay  on  Cookery,*  Lon- 
don, 8vo.  1710,  page  34,  article  *  basil,'  "  This  comforts  the 
heart,  expels  melancholy,  and  cleanses  the  lungs." 

t  Stick  the  cloves  into  the  onion,  to  save  your  tammis  or 
sieve  from  being  torn  by  the  sharp  points  of  the  cloves,  when 
YOU  strain  vour  sauce. 

J  4 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

watch  it ;    and  when   it   has  got  a  good  bro\fti  : 

colour,  fill  up  jour  stewpan  wiili  boiling  water,  ; 

and  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  two  hours  :  if  ; 

you  wish  to  have  the  full  benefit  of  your   meat,  j 

only  stew  it  till  it  is  just  tender,  and  cut  it  into  i 

mouthfuls,   and    put  it  into  your  soup.      Put  a  ; 
tablespoonful  of  the  thickening,  No.  ^d7,  vf  sauces, 
into  a^wo  quart  stewpan,  pour  to  it  a  ladleful  of 

your  gravy,  and  stir  it  quick  till  it  is  well  mixed,  i 

pour  it  back  into  the  stewpan  where  your  gravy  ] 

is,   and  let  it  simmer  gently   for  half  an  hour  j 

longer,  then  strain   it  through   a  tammis  into  a  ^ 
gallon   stewpan  ;    cut  the  cow-heel   into    pieces 

about  an  inch  square,  squeeze  througli  a  sieve  the  i 

juice  of  a  lemon,  a  tablespoonful  of  plain  brown-  j 

ing,  the  same  of  mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  j 

of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  black  pepper,  ; 

and  as  much  grated  nutmeg  as  will   lay  on  a  sijt-  ] 
pence,  with  a  glass  of  Madeira  or  sherry  wine ;  Idr , 

it  all  simmer  together  for  about  half  an  hour.      ^^-  J 

Forcemeat  and  egg  balls  may  be  added  if  yoii 
please ;  you  will  find  a  receipt  for  these  under 
the  article  forcemeat,  Nos.  380,  &c* 

'V*  A  pound  of  veal  cutlets  cut   into  pieces  about  an  inch 

square,  and  fried  and  stezced  till  they  are  tender,  rvill  he  ' 

a  great  addition.     The  above  excellent  soup  costs  only  sit^  ; 
teen  pence  a  quart .                                                                r?*". 

s.    d. 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  gravy  beef-  •••10  j 

Core  Heel    0     5  i 

Herbs    0     2  ; 

Butter  and  flour  0     4             ,  i 

Wine 0     6            J*^  ] 

Half  a  lemon 0     1          ,*if  ; 

Bacon •      0     2  ! 

Tko  quarts  cost  only*  •••28  ; 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,   AND  SOUP^. 

Mock  Turtle,  as  niade  bij  M.  Birch,  one  of 
Apicius's  Assistants  in  this  JFork.  (No.  5246.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  gravy-beef,  with  a  small 
knuckle  of  veal,  about  3lbs ;  chop  the  bone,  and  cut 
the  beef  in  thin  slices ;  put  it  into  a  gallon  stewpan, 
with  half  a  pint  of  water,  a  slice  of  lean  ham  or  ba- 
con, one  turnip,  one  carrot,  three  onions,  jvith  four 
cloves  stuck  in  one,  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper, 
the  same  of  allspice,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs  ;  put 
it  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  of  a  light  brown,  but  be 
very  careful  it  does  not  burn ;  then  put  to  it  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  let  it  simmer  for  two  hours, 
then  strain  it  off,  and  put  two  quarts  more;  simmer 
it  for  three  hours  longer,  strain  it  off,  and  set  it  by 
till  next  day  :  boil  half  a  calf's  head  with  the  skin 
on,  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  when  cold,  cut  the 
meat  off  in  small  square  pieces.  To  thicken  your 
soup,  put  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stewpan  ;  as 
soon  as  it  is  melted,  mix  two  tablcspoonsful  of 
flour  with  it,  stirring  it  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes  ; 
then  mix  the  gravy  with  it  by  degrees  :  as  soon 
as  it  boils,  mix  three  tablcspoonsful  of  oatmeal 
with  cold  water,  and  put  to  the  soup  ;  let  it  boil 
for  ten  minutes,  strain  it,  and  put  it  into  the  stew- 
pan again  with  the  meat,  and  a  roll  of  lemon-peel ; 
simmer  it  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  two  hours, 
till  quite  tender,  and  finish  your  soup  with  sea- 
soning it  with  wine,  catsup,  lemon-juice,  &c. 

Ohs.  —  The  above  is  most  excellent,  and  was  eaten 
with  unanimous  and  perfect  approbation,  by  the  "  Com- 
mittee OF  Taste,"  (vide  Preface,)  who  ordered  it  to 
be  printed,  as  well  as  the  following  receipt,  which  is 
rather  more  economical. 

Mock  Turtle.    (No.  247.) 
This  is  the  dish,  says  "  te  grand  Cuisinier  Im- 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

pcrial  de  France,''  wbich  Ibe  English  cooks  pre- 
pare when  tliey  wisli  (o  rival  the  French  cookery. 
Take  a  calf's  head  with  the  skin  on,  take  out  the 
brains,  wash  the  head  well  several  times  in  cold 
water,  put  it  on  in  hot  water,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour. 
While  the  head  is  doing,  cut  nib  of  ham  into  slices, 
chop  a  knuckle  of  veal,  or  shin  of  beef,  into  ilb 
pieces,  lay  Ihem  in  a  two  gallon  stewpan,  with  two 
large  carrots,  two  turnips,  two  heads  of  celery,  and 
four  large  onions,  with  cis^ht  cloves  stuck  in  one  of 
them,  a  |oz,  of  thin  cut  lemon-peel,  half  as  much 
eshallois ;  a  bundle  as  thick  as  your  wrist  of  winter- 
savory,  pot-marjoram,  sweet-marjoram,  and  lemon- 
Ihyme,  equal  parts,  half  the  quantity  of  basil,  (or 
|oz.  of  dried  soup-herb  powder,  No.  459,  tied  up 
in  a  bag,)  and  three  times  the  quantity  of  parsley  : 
put  in  6  blades  of  mace,  two  drachms  of  allspice, 
and  the  same  of  black  pepper,  all  finely  pounded  : 
then  put  in  a  pint  of  the  liquor  the  calf's  head  is 
boiling  in,  cover  the  stewpan,  and  set  it  over  a 
quick  fire  till  all  the  liquor  is  boiled  away,  and  the 
meat  begins  to  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan  ;  now 
fill  it  up  with  the  liquor  in  which  the  calf's  head 
was  boiled,  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stew  gently  for 
three  hours  longer;  (there  should  be  five  quarts  of 
soup  when  it  is  finished  ;)  then  to  thicken  it  put  in 
2oz.  of  butter  into  a  quart  stewpan ;  when  it  is 
melted,  gradually  stir  in  five  tablespoonsful  of  flour, 
and  rub  it  up  well  till  you  make  it  a  stiff  paste,  mix 
some  of  the  broth  with  this,  adding  it  by  degrees, 
stirring  it  all  the  while  till  thoroughly  incorporated ; 
if  it  is  at  all  lumpy,  pass  it  through  a  sieve;  let 
it  stew  slowly  half  an  hour  longer,  and  strain  it 
throughatammis  into  a  clean  stewpan,  cut  the  head 
and  tongue  into  mouth  fuls,  and  season  the  soup  with 
two  tablespoonsful  of  brownings,  same  of  lemon- 
juice,  three  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  three  wine- 


*BROTlISj   GRAVIES,  AND    S0UP5.  : 

glasses  of  wine ;  let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  liourj 
longer,  till  the  meat  is  quite  tender,  taking  care  it  is^ 
not  overdone  :  while  the  soup  is  doing,  prepare  fori 
each  tureen  a  dozen  and  a  half  of  mock  turtle  forcc-| 
meat  balls,  (to  make  these,  see  No.  375,  or  No.  390,\ 
to  No.  396,)  and  a  dozen  egg  balls  ;  put  these  ijitaj 
the  tureen,  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  j 
Brain  balls  are  a  very  elegant  addition,  and  are! 
made  by  boiling  the  brains  for  ten  minutes,  then  put^ 
them  in  cold  water,  and  cut  them  into  pieces  about' 
as  big  as  a  large  nutmeg;  take  savory,  or  sweet  mar- ! 
joram  and  lemon-thyme  dried  and  finely  powdered,] 
nutmeg  grated,  and  pepper  and  salt,  and  pound; 
themalltogether;  roll  the  brains  in  this  mixture,and . 
make  as  much  of  this  powder  as  possible  stick  to- 
them,  dip  them  in  an  egg  well  beat  up,  and  then  in  \ 
finely  grated  and  sifted  bread  crumbs,  fry  them  in  ^ 
hot  fat,  and  put  them  into  the  soup  the  last  thing. 

A  veal  sweetbread,  with  or  without  a  pound  of  I 
salted  neat's  tongue,  cut  into  mouth fuls,  is  a ; 
favourite  addition  with  some  cooks.  We  order! 
the  meat  to  be  cut  into  mouthfuls,  that  it  may  be ; 
eaten  with  a  spoon  ;  the  knife  and  fork  have  no  • 
business  in  a  soup  plate.  ^  ; 

%*  Some  of  our  culinary  cottmporarics  order  theHaut-goutofthis(afi 
above  directed,  sufficiently  relishing)  soup  to  be  augmented  by  I 
the  addition  of  anchovies,  mushrooms,  truces, morells,  curry-powder, 
artichoke  bottoms,  salmon's  head  and  livers,  or  lobsters  mid-stdes  cut 
into  mouthfuls,  a  bottle  of  Madeira,  <^c.,  and  to  complete  their  sur- 
feiting and  burn-gullet  olio,  they  put  in  such  a  tremendous  quantity 
of  Cayenne  pepper,  that  no  palate,  that  has  not  been  educated  in  the 
Indies,  can  endure  it. 

Obs.  —  This  is  a  most  delicious  and  nutritious  soup, 
and  within  reach  of  those  who  "  eat  to  live;"  but  if  it 
had  been  composed  expressly  for  those  who  only  "  live 
to  eat,"  I  do  not  know  how  it  could  have  been  made 
more  agreeable:  as  it  is,  the  lover  of  good  eating  will._ 
"wish  his  throat  a  mile  long,  and  every  inch  of  it.j 
palate."  j 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

English  Turtle  Soup.     (No.  248.)     ' -^id 

See  No.  502.     ''  Alamode  Beef."  "^^ 

Malaga  Tawney  Soup.     (No.  249.) 

Take  two  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  a  nice  fowl 
or  chicken,  then  put  in  the  following  ingredients, 
a  large  white  onion,  a  large  chilly*,  two  teaspoons- 
ful  of  ginger  pounded,  the  same  of  curry  stuff,  one 
teaspoonful  of  turmeric,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
black  pepper  :  boil  all  these  for  half  an  hour,  and 
then  fry  some  small  onions,  and  put  them  in.  Sea- 
son it  with  salt,  and  serve  it  up  in  a  tureen. 

Turtle  Soup.     (No.  250.) 

The  following  recipe  for  dressing  this  richest 
and  most  delicious  dish,  is  the  present  practice  of 
an  experienced  French  cook,  a  consummate  mas- 
ter of  the  art,  in  his  own  words. 

"  The  best  size  for  taste,  is  from  60  to  80  pounds; 
this  will  make  6  or  8  tureens  of  fine  soup.  Kill  the 
turtle  the  evening  before  you  wish  to  dress  it ;  tie  a 
cord  to  the  hind  fins  of  the  turtle,  and  hang  it  up 
with  the  head  downwards;  tie  the  fore  fins  by  way 
of  pinioning  them,  it  would  otherwise  beat  itself, 
and  be  troublesome  to  the  executioner  ;  take  the 
head  with  your  left  hand,  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
cut  oft'  the  neck  as  near  the  head  as  possible; 
there  is  a  joint  where  the  knife  will  pop  through 
■without  any  force.  Have  one  or  two  large  tubs 
of  water  ready,  and  when  you  dissect  your  turtle, 
put  it  on  a  block  on  the  back  shell,  slip  your 
knife  between  the  calliopee  and  the  calliopash  ;  I 
mean  between  the  breast  and  the  edge  of  the  back 
shell  :  when  the  knife  has  been  round,  and  the 
breast  is  detached  from  the  back  shell,  pass  your 
fingers  underneath,  and  with  your  knife  detach  the 
*  The  pod  of  which  Cayenne  pepper  is  made. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

oreast  from  the  fins,  always  keeping  the  edge  of 
vour  knife  on  the  side  of  the  breast,  otherwise  it 
may  happen  you  may  break  the  gall,  whicli  is 
very  large,  and  if  broken,  your  turtle  is  spoiled. 
Cut  yoiu  breast  into  four  pieces,  next  take  away 
the  guts,  beginning  by  the  liver,  and  cut  away  the 
gall,  to  be  out  of  danger  at  once.  The  guts  are 
to  be  thrown  away  :  1  have  seen  some  cooks  have 
them  cleaned  and  cut  in  pieces,  and  put  into  the 
soup,  but  generally  they  arc  left  on  the  gentle- 
men's plates  :  a  basin  of  turtle  is  considered  a 
treat,  consequently  it  should  be  so  dressed  that 
none  be  left  on  the  plate  or  basin-  When  your 
turtle  is  emptied,  throw  the  heart,  liver,  kidneys, 
and  lights,  into  water,  cut  away  the  fins  to  the 
root,  I  mean  as  near  to  the  back  shell  as  possible, 
next  cut  the  fins  in  the  second  joint,  that  the 
white  meat  may  be  separated  from  the  green : 
scrape  the  fat  that  sticks  against  the  back  sheD,  or 
calliopash,  take  it  like  as  if  you  was  skimming 
any  thing,  and  put  it  aside.  Cut  the  calliopash 
into  four  pieces.  Set  a  large  turbot  pan  on  the 
fire,  and  when  it  boils  dip  a  fin  into  it  for  a 
minute,  then  take  it  out  and  peel  it  very  clean ; 
when  that  is  done,  take  another,  and  so  on  till  all 
are  done  ;  then  the  head,  next  the  shell  and  breast, 
piece  by  piece.  Be  careful  to  have  the  peel  and 
shell  entirely  cleaned  off,  then  put  in  the  same 
pan  some  clean  water,  with  the  breast  and  back, 
the  four  fins,  and  the  head;  let  it  boil  till  the 
bones  will  leave  tlie  meat ;  put  with  it  a  large 
faggot  of  turtle  herbs  as  big  as  your  two  fists,  four 
bay  leaves,  and  some  thyme.  If  you  mean  to 
make  two  dishes  of  the  fins,  you  must  take  them 
away  when  they  have  been  boiled  one  hour. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  j 

Port  -wine,  and  a  pottle  of  musb rooms  ;  when 
your  sauce  boiis,  put  your  four  fins  in  ;  after] 
bavin<y  taken  away  all  the  small  bones  that  are  i 
seen  breaking  through  the  skin,  put  with  it  a  fag-  i 
got  of  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  bit  of  thyme,  one  ; 
bay  leaf,  and  four  cloves,  and  let  it  simmer  one ' 
hour:  ten  minutes  before  you  dish,  put  five  dozen  | 
of  button  onions  that  you  have  ready  peeled  : 
when  you  dish,  put  in  each  dish  a  hind  fin  and  a  j 
fore  one,  and  look  if  it  is  salt  enough.  I 

***  ^fyou  hate  no  brozcn  sauce,  put  in  a  stewpan  a  quarter  \ 
of  a  pound  of  butter ;  when  it  is  melted,  put  to  it  two  zcooden  ' 
spoonsful  ofjlour,  stir  it  on  the  fire  till  it  gets  a  hazel' 
colour,  pour  a  bottle  of  Port  wine  in  it,  a  ludlcful  ofbrothy 
and,  when  it  boils,  do  as  before  mentioned ,  and  scum  it  ■ 
zvell. 

Mock  Turtle.     (Na  ^5\.)  j 

This  receipt  is  from  the  same  source  as  the  pre-  i 
ceding  one,  and  is  an  excellent  and  highly  finish-  j 
ed  soup.  > 

Have  a  calfs  head  scalded  with  the  skin  on,  cut  j 
it  in  two,  take  out  the  brain,  and  v.' ash  your  head  ; 
well ;  when  well  cleaned,  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth,  and  ; 
let  it  boil  four  hours,  then  take  it  out,  and  let  it ; 
cool  till  you  want  it.  Have  a  pound  of  lean  ham  ; 
cut  in  slices,  range  them  to  the  bottom  of  a  stock-  i 
pot,  or  braising  kettle  ;  cut  two  knuckles  of  veal  \ 
into  pieces,  put  them  over  your  ham,  put  a  I 
ladleful  of  broth  or  water  in  your  stock-pot,  and  ' 
set  it  over  a  brisk  fire  ;  when  the  meat  begins  to 
stick  to  the  bottom,  cover  your  meat  with  water  ;  ; 
when  it  has  been  skimmed  well,  put  two  carrots, 
two  onions,  three  bay  leaves,  four  cloves,  three  i 
blades  of  mace,  a  large  faggot  of  turtle  herbs,  and 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

some  salt ;  let  it  boil  four  hours  ;  your  broth  must 
be  reduced  to  six  or  seven  quarts  ;  strain  your 
broth  through  a  tammis  sieve,  then  put  in  a  stew- 
pan  three  ounces  of  butter,  let  it  melt,  then  put 
to  it  two  wooden  spoonsful  of  flour,  stir  it  till  it  is 
the  colour  ot  a  hazel  nut,  then  pour  in  a  bottle  of 
Madeira  wine,  mix  it  well,  then  pour  in  your 
broth,  and  stir  it  till  it  boils,  put  in  three  table- 
spoonsful  of  essence  of  anchovies,  a  teaspoonful  of 
curry  powder,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne 
pepper  :  skim  it  well. 

Now  cut  your  calf's  head,  take  only  the  skin, 
the  ears,  the  eyes,  and  the  tongue,  all  about  an 
inch  long,  and  half  an  inch  wide  ;  do  not  put  any 
other  meat  but  what  is  mentioned,  as  any  other 
part  of  the  head,  if  put  with  this,  would  go  to 
pieces,  and  spoil  the  look  of  your  soup  ;  make 
some  forcemeat  balls,  as  mentioned  in  the  pre- 
ceding receipt  for  turtle ;  let  them  simmer  ten 
minutes.  When  ready  to  dish,  squeeze  two 
lemons  in  each  tureen;  send  it  up  as  hot  as 
possible. 

Portable  Soup,     (No.  252.) 

Break  the  bones  of  a  shin  of  beef,  a  small 
knuckle  of  veal,  and  a  couple  of  cow  heels,  put 
them  into  a  soup-pot  that  will  hold  four  gal- 
lons of  water,  just  cover  your  meat  with  water 
and  set  it  on  the  fire  to  heat  gradually  till  it  nearly 
boils  ;  watch  it,  and  skim  it  attentively  Avhile  any 
scum  rises,  pour  in  a  quart  of  cold  water,  to 
make  it  throw  up  all  the  scum  that  may  remain, 
let  it  come  to  a  boil  again,  and  again  skim  it  care- 
fully :  when  no  more  scum  rises,  and  the  broth 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

appears  clear,  put  in  what  herbs  or  spice  you 
please,  but  no  salt;  let  it  boil  very  gently  for 
eight  hours,  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a 
large  brown  stone-pan ;  skim  off  all  the  grease 
before  jou  put  it  by,  and  set  it  where  it  will  cool 
quickly  ;  next  day  pour  it  as  quietly  as  possible 
into  a  thtee  gallon  stewpan,  (taking  care  not  to 
let  any  of  the  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the  stone- 
pan  go  into  the  stewpan ;  this  answers  better  than 
straining  it ;)  let  it  boil  as  fast  as  possible,  in  the 
uncovered  stewpan,  on  a  quick  fire  :  pour  it  into 
a  three  quart  stewpan ;  if  any  scum  rises,  take  it  off 
with  a  skimmer  ;  now  watch  it  all  the  time  till  it 
is  reduced  to  the  thickness  of  a  very  thick  syrup  ; 
take  the  utmost  care  that  it  does  not  burn ;  a 
moment's  inattention  now  will  lose  you  all  your 
labour,  and  the  soup  will  be  spoiled  :  take  a  little 
of  it  out  in  a  spoon  and  let  it  cool ;  if  it  sets  into 
strong  jelly,  it  is  done  enough  ;  if  it  does  not, 
boil  it  a  little  longer,  and  try  it  again  till  it  does  ; 
have  ready  some  little  preserving  pots,  let  them 
be  quite  dry,  pour  the  soup  into  them*,  and  let 
it  stand  till  the  next  day.  Set  a  large  flat  bot- 
tommed  stewpan,  one  third  part  filled  with  boil- 
ing water,  over  a  very  slow  fire,  place  the  pots 
of  soup  in  this,  taking  care  (hat  the  water  does 
not  reach  the  rims  of  them  within  a  couple  of 
inches  ;  let  the  pots  stand  (uncovered)  in  this 
hot  water  (without  boiling)  for  six  or  seven  hours. 
This  is  the  only  way  of  bringing  the  soup  to  a 
proper  thickness  ;  it  was  before  boiled  up  as  high 
as  it  could  be,  over  the  naked  fire,  without  burn- 

*  You  will  get  a  pint  of  excellent  broth  by  washing  out  the 
stewpan  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

ing;  but  that  was  not  enough,  without  the  aid  of 
this  water-bath  it  could  not  be  reduced  to  the 
thickness  of  a  stiflf  glue,  whilst  hot,  which 
is  the  only  way  to  be  sure  of  its  being  perfectly 
firm  when  cold.  It  will  now  be  of  the  con- 
sistence of  a  thick  hard  glue,  and  will  keep 
good  for  many  months,  if  it  is  put  in  a  cool  dry 
place. 

Obs.' — The  uses  of  this  concentrated  essence 
of  meat  are  numerous.  As  a  general  keeping 
stock,  it  is  the  most  convenient  basis  for  making 
extempore  broths,  soups,  gravies,  and  sauces.  To 
make  a  pint  of  broth,  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
on  apiece  of  the  soup,  about  as  big  as  a  small  wal- 
nut, stir  it  till  it  is  melted,  add  a  little  salt,  and  the 
broth  is  ready  :  if  you  have  time  and  opportunity, 
as  there  is  no  seasoning  in  the  soup,  either  of 
herbs  or  spice,  it  will  be  a  great  improvement  to 
boil  a  bit  of  parsley  and  thyme,  and  half  a  dozen 
corns  of  black  pepper,  in  the  water  you  melt  the 
soup  in  :  this  will  produce  you  as  good  a  broth  as 
need  be. 

An  ounce  of  soup,  melted  in  a  quart  of  gravy, 
is  just  the  same  as  the  quart  of  gravy  was  before  it 
was  so  boiled  away. 

To  clarify  Broth  or  Gravy.     (No.  252.*) 

Put  on  the  broth  in  a  clean  stewpan,  break  the 
white  and  shell  of  an  egg^  beat  them  together, 
put  them  into  the  broth  when  it  is  coming  to  a 
boil,  stir  it  very  quick  with  a  whisk ;  when  it  has 
boiled  a  few  minutes,  strain  it  through  a  tammis 
or  a  clean  napkin. 


SAUCES  AXD  GPwAVIES. 

made  sauce*  ;  I  shall  ibcrefore  endeavour  (o  give 
the  plainest  directions  how  to  produce,  with  the  '' 
least  trouble  and  expense  f  possible,  all  the  vari-  \ 
ous  compositions  the  English  kitchen  affords  for  : 
the  amusement  of  John  Bull,  and  hope  to  present 
sufficient  variety  to  suit  all  palates,  and  all  pock-  ; 
ets :  so  thai  the  cook  may  give  satisfaction  in  all  \ 
families :  the  more  combinations  of  this  sort  she  i 
is  acquainted  -with,  the  belter  she  will  compre-  ; 
hend  the  management  of  every  one  of  thera.  | 

I  have  only  rejected  some  outlandish  farragoes ;  j 

*  It  is  tte  duty  of  a  good  sauce,  (says  the  editor  of  tlie 
**  Almanack  des  GourmandSf*  vol.  v.  page  6,)  to  insinuate  it-  : 
self  all  round  and  about  the  maxillary  glands,  and  impercep-  I 
tibly  avvaken  into  activity  each  ramification  of  the  organs  of  i 
taste:  if  not  sufficieotly  savoury,  it  cannot  produce  this  ef-^\ 
feet,  and  if  too  piquante,  it  will  paralyze,  instead  of  exciting  j 
those  exquisitely  delicious  titillations  of  tongue,  and  volup-  '■ 
tuous  gustatory  orgasmas,  that  only  the  mo^t  accoropliihed  | 
philosophers  of  the  mouth  can  produce  on  the  highly  edu-  ' 
cated  palates  of  thrice  happy  grand  gourmands. 

t  To  save  time  and  trouble  is  the  most  valuable  frugality ;  ; 
and  if  the  mistress  of  a  family  mil  condescend  to  devote  a  . 
little  time  to  the  profitable  and  pleasant  employment  of  pre-  ; 
paring  some  of  the  concentrated  essences,  the  manner  of  j 
making  which  I  have  so  plainly  described  in  the  following  I 
chapter,  many  disbe5  may  be  dressed  with  half  the  usual  ! 
time  and  trouble.  1 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

from  a  conviction  they  were  by  no  means  adapted 
to  an  English  palate,  though  they  have  been  re- 
ceived into  some  English  books,  for  the  sake  of 
swelling  the  volume  :  I  believe  they  -svill  never 
be  received  by  an  Englishman's  stomach,  unless 
for  the  reason  they  were  admitted  into  the  cookery 
book  ;  i.  e.  because  he  has  nothing  else  to  put  in  it. 
I  could  have  made  this  the  bigrgest  book*  with 
half  the  trouble  it  has  taken  me  to  make  it  the 
best,  I  have  taken  as  much  pains  in  describing, 
in  the  fullest  manner,  how  to  make  in  the  easiest, 
most  agreeable,  and  most  economical  way,  tliose 
common  sauces  that  daily  contribute  to  the  com- 
fort of  the  middle  ranks  of  society  ;  as  I  have,  in 
directing  the  preparation  of  those  extravagant 
and  elaborate  double  relishes,  the  most  ingenious 
and  accomplished  "  officers  of  the  mouth'^  have 
invented  for  the  amusement  of  thorougli  bred 
grand  gourmands :  these  I  have  so  reduced  the 
trouble  and  expense  of  making,  as  to  bring  them 
within  the  reach  of  moderate  fortune-s,  still  pre- 
serving all  that  is   valuable  of  their  taste  and 

"^  I  intend  here  to  offer  to  all  such  as  please  to  peruse  it, 
"  a  plain  book,  which  is  all  and  every  part  of  it  Book,  and 
notliing  but  solid  book  from  beginning  to  end." — Vide  preface 
to  Dr.  Fuller's  "  Introdiictio  ad  Prudentiam"  London, 
l^ma.  1721. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES.  ' 

qualities ;  and  yet  so  ordering  them,  that  Ibey  ma, 
delight  the  palate,  without  disordering  the  sto 
mach;  leaving  out  those  inflammatory  ingredi 
ents  which  are  only  fit  for  an  "  iron  throat,  an( 
adamantine  bowels,"  and  those  costly  materials 
which  any  rational  being  would  refuse  to  destroy 
for  the  wanton  purpose  of  merely  giving  a  fin 
name  to  the  compositions  they  enter  into,  i 
whose  excellence  they  contribute  nothing  else« 
for  instance,  consuming  two  partridges  to  mak 
sauce  for  one,  wlien  half  a  pint  of  my  game  gravy 
No.  S29,  would  be  infinitely  more  acceptable  h 
unsophisticated  English  appetites,  for  whose  pro 
per  and  rational  recreation  I  sat  down  to  com 
pose  these  receipts :  if  I  gain  their  patronage 
which  I  have  done  my  utmost  to  deserve,  by  de 
voting  so  much  time  to  the  business  of  th( 
kitchen,  and  repeating  every .  experiment  tha 
appeared  the  least  doubtful,  or  I  thought  admit 
ted  of  the  smallest  improvement :  I  shall  be  fullj 
gratified,  if  my  book  is  not  bought  up  with  quit( 
80  much  avidity  by  those  high  bred  epicures 
who  are  unhappily  so  much  more  nice  than  wise, 
they  cannot  eat  any  thing  dressed  by  an  English- 
man, and  consider  it  barbarously  unrefined,  and 
intolerably  ungentecl,  to  endure  the  sight  of  the 
best  bill  of  fare  that  can  be  contrived,  if  written 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

ia  the  vulgar  tongue*.  Let  your  sauces  each 
display  a  decided  character ;  send  up  your  sim- 
ple sauces  as  pure  as  possible ;  they  should  only 
taste  of  the  material  they  take  their  name  from. 
.  The  imagination  of  most  cooks  is  so  incessantly 
on  the  hunt  for  a  relish,  they  seem  to  think 
they  can  never  make  sauce  savoury,  without  put- 
tmg  into  it  every  thing  that  ever  was  eaten  ;  and  loo 
fond  of  supposing  every  addition  must  be  an  im- 
provement, frequently  destroy  the  natural  flavour 
of  their  plain  sauces,  by  overloading  them  with 
salt  and  spices  f :  but,  remember,  these  will  be  de- 
teriorated by   any  addition,  save  only  just  salt 

*  Though  some  of  these  people  have  at  last  found  out, 
that  an  Englishman's  head  is  as  full  of  gravy  as  a  French- 
man's, and  willing  to  give  the  preference  to  native  talent, 
retain  an  Englishman  or  woman  as  prime  minister  of  their 
kitchen ;  still  they  seem  ashamed  to  confess  it,  as  they  com- 
monly insist,  as  a  "  sine  qua  non,"  that  these  English  domes- 
tics should  understand  the  "  parlez  voics ;"  and  notwithstand- 
ing they  are  perfectly  initiated  in  all  the  minutias  of  culinary 
concerns,  they  consider  ihem  ineligible,  if  they  cannot  scrib- 
ble a  bill  of  fare  in  French. 

t  Spices  are  often  very  injudiciously  jumbled  together. 
We  would  never  have  clove  and  allspice,  or  mace  and  nut- 
meg in  the  same  sauce  :  one  will  very  well  supply  the  place 
of  the  other,  and  the  frugal  cook  may  save  something  con- 
siderable by  attending  to  this,  to  the  advantage  of  her  em- 
K. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIEs.  \ 

enough  to  awaken  the  palate.     On  the  contrary, 
of  your  compound  sauces  the  ingredients  should 
be  so  nicely  proportioned,  that  no  one  be  predo- 
minant ;  but,  from  the  equal  union  of  the  com-  ' 
bined    flavours,   a  fine  mellow  mixture   is  pro- 
duced, whose  very  novelty  cannot  fail  of  being  \ 
sufficient  excitement  to  the  persevering  gourmand,  ; 
if  it  has  not  pretensions  to  a  permanent  place  at  ' 
his  table.     An  ingenious  cook  will  form  an  end-  ; 
less  variety  of  these  compositions  ;  and  no  part  of  i 
her  business  offers  so  fair  an  opportunity  for  her  j 
to  display  her  abilities.  i 

To  be  a  complete  mistress  of  the  art  of  cleverly  \ 
extracting  and  combining  flavours  *,  besides  the  i 
gift  of  a  good  taste,  requires  all  the  experience,  all ; 
the  genius,  and  all  the  dexterity  and  skill  of  the 
most  accomplished  and  exquisite  professor,  and  i 
an  intimate  acquaintance  and  an  attentive  eonsi-  ; 
deration  of  the  palates  of  those  she  is  working  for.  ; 

Take  especial  care  to  have  your  sauces  sent  to 
table  as  hot  as  possible :  nothing  need  be  more  ' 

ployers,  and  her  own  time  and  trouble.  In  many  of  our  re-  '■ 
ceipts,  we  have  fallen  in  with  the  fashion  of  ordering  a  mixture  I 
of  spices,  which  the  above  hint  will  enable  the  culinary  stu-  i 
dentto  correct. 

*  If  your  palate  becomes  dull  by  repeatedly  tasting,  the  ' 
best  way  to  refresh  it,  is  to  wash  your  mouth  well  with  milk.  J 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

unsightly,  than  the  surface  of  a  sauce  in  a  frozen 
state,  or  garnished  with  grease  on  the  top ;  to  re- 
move every  particle  of  which,  draw  a  piece  of 
filtering  paper  over  it :  the  same  may  be  said  of 
all  made  dishes,  of  whose  paraphernalia  the  sauce 
forms  a  conspicuous  part :  remember  to  let  your 
sauces  boil  up,  after  you  have  put  in  any  wine, 
anchovy,  or  thickening,  that  their  flavours  may 
be    well    blended   with  the  other  ingredients*. 

*  Before  you  put  eggs  or  cream  into  a  sauce,  have  all  your 
other  ingredients  well  boiled,  and  your  sauce  or  soup  of  pro- 
per thickness,  as  neither  eggs  nor  cream  will  contribute  much 
to  thicken  it.  After  you  have  put  them  in,  do  not  set  the 
stewpan  on  the  stove  again,  but  hold  it  over  the  fire,  and 
shake  it  round  one  way  till  the  sauce  is  ready. 


K    2 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES, 


Melted  Butter  j 

Appears  to  be  so  simple  and  easy  to  prepare,  it  ■ 
is  certainly  very  surprising  it  is   not   uniformly 
Tvell  done,  and  is  a  matter  of  general  astonishment,  < 
that  what    is   done    so  often    in   every   kitchen,  ' 
should  so  seldom  be  done  right. 

it  is  spoiled  nine  times  out  often,  more  from  ! 

idleness  than  from  ignorance,   and  rather  because 

the  cook  wont  do  it,  than  because  she  can't  do  it.  ; 

As  it  is  the  foundation  of  almost  all  our  sauces*,  ; 

I  have  tried  every  way  of  making  it,  and  hope,  i 

at  last,  1  have  written  two  receipts,  which  if  the  i 

reader   carefully    observes,    she    will    constantly  \ 

succeed  in  giving  satisfaction.     In  the  quantities  \ 

of  the  various  sauces  I  have  ordered,  I  have  had  j 

in  view  the  providing  for  a  moderate  family  of ; 

half  a   dozen   people.      I   recommend   the   cook  ; 

never  to  pour  the  sauce  over  the  meat,  or  even  j 

put  it  into  the  dish  ;  for,  however  well  made,  some  ' 

of  the  company  may  have  an   antipathy  to  it :  : 

moreover,  if  it  is  sent  up  separate  in  a  boat,  it  \ 

will  keep  hot  longer,  and  what  is  left  of  it  may  be  I 

put  by  for  another  time,  or  used  for  another  pur-  I 

pose.  \ 

Lastly,  it  is  to  be  observed,  that  in  ordering  the  ; 

proportions  of  meat,  butter,  wine,  spice,  «&c.  in  the  j 

following  receipts,  the  proper  quantity  is  set  down, ' 

and  that  a  less  quantity  will  not  do;  and  in  some: 

instances,  those  who  are  fond  of  the  extreme  of; 

piquance     perhaps     will    require     an     addition. 

if  we  have  erred,  it  has  been  on  the  right  side,^ 

from  an  anxious  wish  to  combine  elegance  with! 

*  As  gravy  is  those  oftlie  French  kiiclipn.  j 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

economy,  and  the  toothsome  with  tlie  wholesome, 
ihe  following  we  recommend  as  an  elegant  relish 
to  fini^jh  soups  and  sauces. 


ZEST, 

For  Chops,  Sauces, 


AND 


Made  Dish 


us. 


(N'o.  255.) 


A  few  atoms  of  this  exquisitely  piquante 
and  savoury  quintesseJice  of  Ragout,  im- 
parts to  whatever  it  touches  the  most  deli- 
cious and  highly  finisiied  double  relish  ever 
imagined,  to  awaken  the  palate  with  de- 
light, refresh  appt-tile,  and  instantly  ex- 
cite the  good  humour  of  (every  man's  mas- 
ter) the  stomach. 


Invented  by  the  Editor:  sold  by  the 
Publisher  OE  THIS  Work,  and  at  But- 
ler's herb  shop,  opposite  Henrietta 
Street,  Covent  Garden  ;  and  by  Ball, 
81,  New  Bond  Street,  and  may  be  tasted 
every  day  at  Dolly's  Chop  House  in  Pater- 
noster Kow,  which  has  for  centuries  re 
tained  an  undiminished  reputation. 


k3 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES* 

j 

Melted  Butter.    (No.  255.)  i 

Keep  a  pint  stewpan  for  this  purpose  only. 

Cut  two  ounces  of  butter  into  little  bits,  that  it  ; 
may  melt  more  easily,  and  mix  more  readily ;  ; 
put  it  into  the  stewpan  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  I 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  milk.  When  these  are  ; 
well  mixed,  add  three  tablespoonsful  of  water ;  \ 
hold  it  over  the  fire,  and  shake  it,  (all  the  while  ; 
the  same  way,)  till  it  just  boils  up.  It  should  be  | 
of  the  thickness  of  good  cream.  i 

Obs.  —  This,  we  think,  is  incomparably  the  < 
best  way  of  preparing  melted  butter.  The  milk  i 
mixes  with  the  butter  much  more  easily,  and  more  \ 
intimately  than  water  alone  can  be  made  to  do,  ; 
and  it  looks  smooth  and  fine  like  cream.  If  it  is  j 
to  be  mixed  at  table  with  savoury  essences,  i 
catsup,  or  cavice,  &c.,  it  should  be  made  thicker 
than  if  made  merely  to  pour  over  vegetables. 

1 
Thickening,     (No.  9.57)  \ 

Clarified  butter  is  best  for  this  purpose ;  but  if  \ 

you  have  none  ready,  put  some  fresh  butter  into  j 

a  stewpan  over  a  slow  clear  fire ;  when  it  is  melted,  i 

add  fine  flour  sufficient  to  make  it  the  thickness  of  | 

paste  ;  stir  it  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon  j 

for  twenty  minutes,  till  it  is  quite  smooth,    and  | 
the  colour  of  a  guinea  :  pour  it  into  an  earthen 

pan,  and  keep  it  for  use.     It  will  keep  good  a  i 

fortnight  in  summer,  and  a  month  in  winter.     The  i 

bigness  of  a  walnut  will  generally  be  enough  to  I 
thicken  a  quart  of  gravy. 

Obs* — This  in  the   French  kitchen  is  called  j 

roux.    Be  particularly  attentive  to  the  making  of  ; 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

it ;  if  it  gels  any  burnt  smell  or  taste,  it  will  spoil 
every  thing  it  is  put  into.  When  cold,  it  should 
be  thick  enough  to  cut  out  with  a  knife,  like  a  solid 
paste.  It  is  a  very  essential  article  in  the  kitchen, 
and  is  the  basis  of  consistency  in  most  made 
dishes,  soups,  sauces,  and  ragouts :  if  the  gra- 
vies, &c.  are  too  thin,  add  this  thickening,  more 
or  less,  according  to  the  consistence  you  would 
wish  them  to  have.  In  making  thickening,  the 
less  butter,  and  the  more  flour  you  use,  the  better ; 
they  should  be  thoroughly  worked  together,  and 
the  broth,  or  soup,  &c.  you  put  them  to,  added 
by  degrees,  and  take  especial  care  to  incorporate 
them  well  together,  or  your  sauces,  &c.  will  have 
a  disgusting,  greasy  appearance ;  therefore,  after 
you  have  thickened  your  sauce,  add  to  it  some 
broth,  or  warm  water,  in  the  proportion  of  two 
tablespoonsful  to  a  pint,  and  set  it  by  the  side  of 
the  fire,  to  raise  any  fat,  &c.  that  is  not  tho- 
roughly incorporated  with  the  gravy,  which  you 
must  carefully  remove  as  it  comes  to  the  top. 
This  is  called  cleansing,  or  finishing  the  sauce. 

%*  Half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  tahlespoonful  of  flour ,  are 
abo7it  the  proportions  for  a  pint  of  sauce ,  to  make  it  as 
thick  as  good  cream. 

Savour]/  Thickenmg,     (No.  258.) 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  the  meat  of  half  a  dozen  anchovies, 
three  eshallots,  and  four  large  blades  of  pounded 
raacc ;  stir  together,  and  by  degrees  add  as  much 
flour  as  will  make  it  a  stiff*  paste  ;  put  it  into  a  pot, 
for  the  purpose  of  heightening  the  flavour  of  your 
brown  sauces. 

K  4 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

Oh<^.  —  The  cook  will  vary  the  spices,  &c. 
according  to  the  taste  of  those  she  works  for. 

Clarifed  Butter.    (No.  259.) 

Put  the  butter  in  a  nice  clean  stewpan,  over  a 
very  clear  slow  fire,  watch  it,  and  when  it  is 
melted,  carefully  remove  the  buttermilk,  «&c. 
which  will  swim  on  the  top ;  let  it  stand  a  minute 
or  two  for  the  impurities  to  sink  to  the  bottom, 
and  then  lay  a  tammis  in  a  sieve,  and  pour  the 
clear  butter  through  it,  into  a  clean  basin,  leaving 
the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan. 

Ohs. — Butter  thus  purified,  will  be  as  sweet 
as  any  marrow,  and  is  a  very  useful  covering  for 
all  potted  meats  and  fish,  and  equal  to  the  finest 
Lucca  oil  for  frying  fish,  and  many  other  culinary 
purposes. 

Burnt  Butter.     (No.  260.) 

Put  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  into  a  small  fry- 
ingpan,  and  when  it  becomes  a  dark  brown 
colour,  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of 
good  vinegar,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 

Obs.  — This  is  used  as  sauce  for  boiled  fish,  or 
poached  eggs. 

Parsley  and  Butter,     (No.  26 1 .) 

Wash  some  parsley  very  clean,  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and 
boil  the  parsley  two  or  three  minutes,  drain  it  on 
a  sieve,  and  mince  it  quite  fine.  The  delicacy 
and  excellence  of  this  sauce  depends  upon  the 
pursley  being  minced  very  xcrt/  tine  ;  put  it  into 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

a  sauce  boat,  and  mix  with  it  by  degrees  about 
balf  a  pint  of  good  melted  butter. 

Ohs.  —  Be  careful  (o  pick  the  parsley  oiF  the 
stalks  before  you  boil  it. 

Mock  Parsley  Sauce.     (No.  262.) 

If  you  cannot  get  any  parsley,  you  may  easily 
communicate  the  exact  flavour  of  it  to  your 
sauce,  by  tying  up  a  quarter  of  adraclim  of  parsley 
seed  in  a  piece  of  clean  muslin,  and  boiling  it  for  feu 
minutes  in  five  tablespoonsful  of  water;  use  this 
water  to  melt  your  butter  with. 

Gooseberry  Sauce,  (No.  9,63.) 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  green  gooseberries  for  five 
minutes,  drain  them  on  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  them 
into  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter.  Some  add 
grated  ginger. 

Chervil  and  Butter.     (No.  264.) 

This  is  the  first  time  this  very  delicious  herb, 
which  has  so  long  been  a  favourite  with  the  saga- 
cious French  cook,  has  been  introduced  into 
an  English  book.  Its  flavour  is  a  strong  con- 
centration of  the  combined  taste  of  parsley  and 
fennel,  but  inimitably  more  aromatic  and  agree- 
able than  either.  I  cannot  account  for  its  being 
so  little  known  in  the  English  kitchen.  You  may 
make  most  exquisite  sauce  with  it  by  preparing 
it,  &c.  as  we  have  directed  for  parsley  and 
butter.  You  may  enrich  it  with  the  juice  of  iialf 
a  lemon,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  white  wine. 

Obs,  —  Drs.  Lewis  and  Aitken  are  most 
k5 


SAUCES  AND   GRAVIES. 

respectable  and  well-accredited  writers  on  che- 
mistry, &c.  and  I  trust  all  men  who  feel  "  Ves- 
prit  du  corps,'*  will  forgive  me  for  saying  they 
have  written  also  like  men  of  taste  on  culinary 
subjects,  as  the  following  quotation  from  their 
Materia  Medica,  8vo.  London,  1791,  vol.  i. 
page  319,  will  testify.  See  cherefolium  or  cheriil, 
^'  It  is  a  salubrious  culinary  herb,  sufficiently 
nutritive  to  the  palate  and  stomach." 

Fennel  and  Butter,  for  Mackarel,  8§c, 
(No.  265.) 

Is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  we  have  just 
described  the  parsley  and  butter. 

Obs. —  For  mackarel  sauce,  some  people  take 
equal  parts  of  fennel  and  parsley. 

Mackarel  Roe  Sauce,     (No.  0.66.) 

Boil  the  roes  of  mackarel,  (soft  roes  are  best,) 
bruise  them  with  a  spoon  with  the  yolk  of  an  Qgg, 
beat  up  with  a  very  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  some  fennel  and  parsley  boiled  and  chopped 
very  fine,  mixed  with  almost  half  a  pint  of  thin 
melted  butter. 

Mushroom  catsup,  walnut  pickle,  or  soy,  may 
be  added  at  table  by  those  who  like  them. 

Egg  Sauce.     (No.  9,67) 

This  agreeable  accompaniment  to  roast  poultry, 
or  salt  fish,  is  made  by  putting  two  eggs  into  boil* 
ing  water,  and  boiling  them  for  eight  minutes, 
when  they  will  be  hard  ;  first  cut  tlie  whites,  then 
the  yolks,  but  neither  very  fine,  put  them  into  a 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

sauce-boat,  pour  to  them  half  a  pint  of  raeKed  but- 
ter, and  stir  together. 

Obs.  —  The  melted  butter  for  egg  sauce  must 
7iot  be  made  quite  so  thick  as  plain  melted 
butter. 

Pudding  Sauce,     (No.  268.) 

Bruise  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  (cassia  will  not  do,) 
set  it  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  with  just  as  much 
water  as  will  cover  it,  give  it  a  boil,  and  then  put 
in  a  couple  of  tablespoonsful  of  fine  lump  sugar, 
powdered,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and 
one  bay  leaf;  boil  all  up  together;  strain  it 
through  a  sieve,  and  send  it  up  hot  in  a  sauce- 
boat. 

Plumb  Pudd'mg  Sauce.      (No.  269.) 

A  glass  of  sherry,  half  a  glass  of  brandy,  and 
two  teaspoonsful  of  pounded  lump  sugar,  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  melted  butter :  grate  nutmeg 
on  the  top. 

Ancho'cy  Sauce,     (No.  270.) 

Take  oflf  the  meat  of  two  or  three  anchovies, 
pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  bit  of  butter, 
rub  them  through  a  double  hair  sieve,  with  the  back 
of  a  wooden  spoon,  and  stir  them  into  half  a  pint 
of  melted  butter  ;  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

%*  Two  well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  are  an  improvement. 

Anchovy  Sauce  for  Roast  Meat.  (No.  271.) 
Foreigners  are  very  fond  of  this,  and  make  it  as 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

in  the  foregoing  receipt,  only  substituting  beef  or 
veal  gravy  instead  of  melted  butter,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  instead  of  the  lemon  juice, 
frequently  using  some  of  their  flavoured  vinegars^ 
tarragon,  &c. 

Gar  lick  Sauce,     (No.  1272.) 

Pound  two  cloves  of  garlick  in  a  marble  mortar, 
with  a  piece  of  fresh  butter  about  as  big  as  a  nut- 
meg ;  rub  it  through  a  double  hair  sieve,  and  stir 
it  into  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  or  beef  gravy. 

Lemon  Sauce.      (No.  Q.7S.) 

Pare  a  lemon,  and  cut  it  into  slices  twice  as 
thick  as  a  three  shilling  piece ;  divide  these  into 
dice,  and  put  them  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
melted  butter. 

Cape?'  Sauce.     (No.  274.) 

A  tablcspoonful  of  capers,  and  twoteaspoonsfulof 
vinegar  ;  mince  one  third  of  the  capers  very  fine, 
and  clividc  the  others  in  half;  put  them  into  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  melted  butter.  Remember  to  stir 
them  the  same  way  as  you  did  the  melted  butter, 
or  it  will  oil. 

Obs.  —  Some  boil  and  chop  a  few  leaves  of 
pnrsley,  and  add  these  to  the  sauce;  others 
squeeze  in  a  quarter  of  a  Seville  orange,  or  half 
a  lemon  ;  take  care  that  nothing  but  the  clear  juice 
goes  in. 

Keep  your  caper  bottle  very  closely  corked;  and 


SAUCES  AXD  GRAVIES. 

do  not  use  any  of  the  caper  liquor;  if  llie  capers 
are  not  well  covered  with  it,  they  will  soon  spoil, 
and  it  is  an  excellent  ingredient  in  hashes,  &c. 
The  Dutch  use  it  as  a  fish  sauce,  mixing  it  with 
melted  butter. 

Mock  Caper  Sauce,    (No.  275.) 

Gut  some  pickled  gherkins  into  small  bits, 
rather  less  than  capers  ;  put  them  into  half  a  pint 
of  melted  butter,  with  two  teaspoonsful  of  lemon 
juice,  or  nice  vinegar,  and  flavour  it  with  a  few 
drops  of  essence  of  shallots  or  garlick. 

Dutch  Sour  Sauce,  for  Fish.     (No.  276.) 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  two 
blades  of  mace,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  elder  vine- 
gar, or  the  same  quantUy  of  lemon  juice;  melt  over 
a  gentle  fire,  stirring  the  ingredients  together  all 
the  while  the  same  way,  and  strain  it  through 
a  tammis  cloth. 

Cream  Sauce,  for  Fish.     (No.  277.) 

Put  the  meat  of  two  anchovies  pounded  with  a 
bit  of  butter,  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soy,  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  mush- 
room catsup,  into  half  a  pint  of  good  cream,  add 
a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as  a  nutmeg,  rolled  in  flour 
to  thicken  it,  and  give  it  a  boil  up. 

Qls.  —  This  is  a  very  delicate  and  delicious 
white  sauce,  and  wiiere  o;ood  cream  can  be  easily 
procured;  much  preferable  to  the  butter  sauces. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 


Oyster  Sauce.     (No.  278.) 

Choose  small  natives  for  this  purpose;  don't 
open  them  till  you  want  them. 

Save  their  liquor,  shave  them,  and  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  over  ihe  fire  with  the  beards  and 
liquor  ;  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  look  plump  and 
white,  take  them  out  one  at  a  time  with  a  fork, 
then  put  to  the  liquor  a  spoonful  of  veal  gravy  or 
milk ;  some  add  six  berries  of  black  pepper,  a 
piece  of  lemon  peel,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sherry :  let  this  simmer  for  ten  minutes, 
then  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  let  it  stand  till 
cold,  then  put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  teaspoonful  of  fine  flour,  mix  your 
liquor  by  degrees  with  it,  put  milk  or  cream,  to 
make  the  quantity  you  wish,  give  it  a  boil  up, 
and  put  in  your  oysters  ;  set  them  by  the  side  of 
the  fire  to  keep  hot,  but  take  care  they  do  not  boil, 
or  they  will  become  hard. 

Pickled  Oyster  Sauce,     (No.  9^79,) 

Open  a  Iiundred  fine  large  oysters  into  a  pan 
with  all  their  liquor  with  them  ;  wash  them  clean 
with  their  liquor,  one  by  one  ;  put  the  liquor  into 
a  stewpan,  give  it  a  boil,  then  strain  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour  to  settle ;  pour 
it  from  the  settlings  into  a  stewpan,  and  put  in 
half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  the  like  quantity  of 
vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  an  ounce  of 
cloves  and  mace,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
allspice  and  black  pepper  bruised;  boil  up  for 
five  minutes  ;  then  put  in  your  oysters,  and  giwe 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

them  a  boil  up  for  a  minute,  put  them  into  small 
jars,  and  tie  them  down  as  close  as  possible  with 
a  wet  bladder  and  leather ;  keep  them  in  a  cool 
dry  place. 

When  you  want  oyster  sauce,  put  some  of  the 
oysters,  with  a  spoonful  of  the  pickle,  into  good 
melted  butter. 

Bottled  Oyster  Sauce.    (No.  280.) 

To  make  half  a  pint  of  sauce,  put  two  ounces 
of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  with  tliree  drachms  of 
oysters,  two  drachms  of  flour,  and  half  a  pint  of 
new  milk  ;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  stir  it  till  it  boils, 
and  season  it  with  salt. 

Milton  oysters,  prepared  by  a  peculiar  pro- 
cess, which  preserves  the  flavour  of  the  fish  in  as 
delicate  perfection  as  when  just  opened.  If  closely 
corked,  and  kept  in  a  diy  place,  they  will  remain 
good  for  years. 

Made  by  E.  Stevenson,  Cook  to  Sir  Simon 
Clark,  Bart.,  near  East  Barnet,  Middlesex ; 
and  sold  by  the  Publisher  of  this  Work, 
and  by  Messrs.  Balls,  81,  New  Bond  Street. 

Ohs, — This  is  a  most  incomparable  succedaneum 
"while  oysters  are  out  of  season,  and  in  such  inland 
parts  as  seldom  have  any,  is  an  invaluable  addition 
to  the  list  of  fish  sauces  :  it  is  also  equally  good 
with  boiled  fowl  or  rump  steak.  It  is  especially 
worthy  the  notice  of  country  housekeepers. 

Cockle  Sauce.     (No.  281.) 

Wash  a  quart  of  cockles  very  clean,  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  without  any  water,  cover  them 
close,  and  stew  gently  till  they  open ;    take  the 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

fish  out  of  the  shells,  wash  thera  in  the  liquor, 
strain  it,  let  it  stand  to  settle,  and  pour  the  clean 
liquor  from  the  settlings  into  a  clean  stewpan  with 
two  ounces  of  butter,  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour;  you  may  put  in  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
anchovy  liquor,  or  mushroom  catsup,  and  season 
it  with  salt,  boil  up  together  till  your  sauce  is 
thick  and  smooth. 

Muscle  Sauce     (No.  282.) 

Is  prepared  exactly  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
preceding  cockle  sauce. 

Shrimp  Sauce.     (No.  283.) 

Shell  a  quarter  pint  of  shrimps,  pick  them 
clean,  wash  them,  and  put  them  into  half  a  pint 
of  good  melted  butter. 

Obs.  —  Some  stew  the  heads  and  shells  of  the 
shrimps,  with  or  without  two  blades  of  bruised 
mace,  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  four  tablcspoons- 
ful  of  water,  and  strain  off  the  liquor  to  melt  the 
butter  with,  or  add  two  teaspoonsful  of  essence  of 
anchovy  to  it. 

Lobster  Sauce.    (No.  284.) 

Choose  a  good  hen  lobster,  be  sure  it  is  fresli-, 
so  get  a  live  one  if  you  can,  and  boil  it  as  in  ISo. 
176,  pick  out  the  spawn  into  a  mortar,  add  to  it 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  butter*,  pound  it  fine, 

*  Two  or  three  anchovies  are  sometimes  pounded  r.ith  the 
spawn. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

and  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a 
wooden  spoon ;  cut  the  meat  of  the  lobster  into 
s'.nall  squares,  or  pull  it  to  pieces  with  a  fork : 
break  the  chine  in  pieces,  and  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pfin  with  the  inside  of  the  fish  and  a  pint  of  water; 
let  it  simmer  till  it  is  reduced  to  about  half,  (this 
will  take  near  an  hour,)  strain  it  through  a  sieve 
into  another  stewpan ;  when  it  is  cold,  add  to  it 
the  spawn  jou  have  bruised,  an  ounce  of  butter, 
and  two  teaspoonsful  of  flour;  mix  it  well  together 
till  it  boils,  tljen  put  to  it  the  meat  of  the  lobster; 
warm  it  on  the  fire  again,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  or 
you  will  lose  the  red  colour.  Some  who  are  fond 
of  making  this  sauce  very  rich,  use  strong  beef 
gravy  instead  of  melted  butter,  adding  catsup, 
cavice,  lemon  pickle,  or  wine  to  it. 

Ohs.  —  Save  a  little  of  the  inside  red  coral 
spawn,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve  (without  but- 
ter), it  is  very  ornamental  to  garnish  your  fish 
with,  by  sprinkling  it  over  it ;  and  if  the  skin  of 
the  breast  of  your  fish  is  broken,  it  will  be  useful 
to  hide  that  blemish,  which  will  sometimes  hap- 
pen to  the  most  careful  cook,  when  there  is.  a 
large  dinner  to  gQi  up,  and  many  other  things  to 
attend  to. 

Sauce  for  Lobster,  S^c,  (No.  285.) 

Bruise  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  with 
the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
water  to  them,  and  rub  them  quite  smooth,  mix 
them  with  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  salad  oil,  and  five  of  vinegar, 
and  season  it  with  a  very  little  Cayenne  pepper 
and  some  salt. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES, 

Obs, — To  this,  elder  vinegar,  catsup,  or 
cavice,  or  ancbovj  paste,  is  occasionally  added. 

Crab  Sauce.     (No.  286.) 

This  is  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  the  former 
sauce,  but  is  very  seldom  sent  to  table  in  this 
country,  lobster  sauce  being  almost  universally 
preferred,  and  will  be,  until  John  Bull  is  so  raving 
mad  for  variety  as  to  fancy  every  change  must  be 
charming. 

Liver  and  Parsley  Sauce.     (No.  287.) 

Wash  the  liver  of  a  fowl  or  rabbit,  and  boil  it 
five  minutes  in  five  tablespoonsful  of  water ;  chop 
it  fine,  and  bruise  it  in  a  small  quantity  of  the 
liquor  it  has  boiled  in,  and  with  a  spoon  rub  it 
through  a  sieve  ;  wash  about  one-third  the  bulk  of 
parsley  leaves,  put  them  on  to  boil  in  a  little  boil- 
ing water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  it ;  lay  it 
on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and  mince  it  very  fine  ; 
mix  it  with  the  liver,  and  put  it  into  a  quarter 
pint  of  melted  butter,  and  warm  it  up  :  do  not  let 
it  boil. 

Ohs,  —  You  may  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
or  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of 
white  wine,  and  a  little  beaten  mace  or  nutmeg, 
or  allspice. 

Lemon  and  Liver  Sauce.    (No.  288.) 

Pare  off  the  rind  of  a  lemon  ;  or,  what  is  prefer- 
able when  it  can  be  had,  the  peel  of  a  Seville 
orange,  as  thin  as  possible,  so  as  not  to  cut  any  of 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

the  white  with  it ;  then  cut  off  all  the  white,  and 
cut  the  lemon  into  slices  about  as  thick  as  two 
three  shilling  pieces  ;  pick  out  tiie  peps,  and  di- 
vide the  slices  into  small  dice  ;  boil  the  liver  of  a 
fowl  or  rabbit,  pound  it,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve 
"with  a  spoon,  and  mix  it,  by  degrees,  with  three  or 
four  tablespoonsful  of  melted  butter ;  put  in  the 
lemon,  a  little  of  the  lemon  peel  minced  very  fine, 
and  give  them  a  boil  up. 

Obs.  —  This  is  sometimes  made  more  relishing 
by  pounding  half  a  shallot,  and  two  or  three  leaves 
of  tarragon  or  basil  with  the  liver,  and  moistening 
it  with  a  little  red  wine. 

Celeri/  Sauce,  White.     (No.  289.) 

Pick  and  wash  four  heads  of  nice  white  cellery  ; 
cut  it  into  pieces  about  an  inch  long  ;  put  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  pint  of  water,  a  dozen  berries  of 
allspice,  a  bay  leaf,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt : 
let  them  stew  till  the  celery  is  tender  *;  roll  an  ounce 
of  butter  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  ;  add  this 
to  the  sauce,  and  stir  it  till  it  boils. 

Celery  Sauce^  Broxvn.      (No.  290.) 

Pick  and  wash  the  celery  very  clean,  and  cut 
it  into  very  thin  slices  ;  let  it  boil  gently  in  a  lit- 
tle water  till  it  is  perfectly  tender,  then  add  a 
couple  of  blades  of  pounded  mace,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  nutmeg,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  let 

*  So  much  depends  upon  the  age  of  the  celery,  we  cannot 
give  any  precise  time  for  this.  Young  celery  will  be  enough 
ill  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  old  celery  will  sometimes  tak6 
an  hour  and  a  half. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

Ibese  simmer  together  for  a  few  minutes,  arid  add 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  port  wine  ;  boil  up  together,  and  put 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  half 
a  pint  of  beef  gravy. 

Ohs. — This  is  much  more  in  the  French  style 
of  cookery  than  the  former  sauce;  some  think  it 
more  agreeable.  The  other  is  simple  and  elegant ; 
this  is  very  fine  and  high  flavoured. 

If  you  wish  for  celery  sauce  when  no  celery  is 
to  be  procured,  a  quarter  of  a  drachm  of  celery- 
seed  will  impregnate  the  sauce  with  all  the  flavour 
of  the  veijetable. 


Sorrel  Sauce,     (No.  291.) 

Pound  sorrel  leaves  sufficient  to  get  from  them 
two  tablespoonsful  of  juice  ;  pass  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  add  it  to  some  good  melted  butter,  with 
the  yolk  of  two  eggs,  and  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and 
nutmeg  ;  warm  it  together  without  boiling. 

Tomata,  or  Lore-apple  Sauce,     (No.  292.) 

Have  12  or  15  tomatas  very  ripe  and  very  red  ; 
take  off  the  stalk  ;  cut  them  in  half;  squeeze  them 
just  enough  to  gci  all  the  water  and  seeds  out;  put 
them  in  a  quart  stewpan,  with  two  or  three 
tablespoonsful  of  beef  gravy ;  set  them  on  a 
slow  stove  for  an  hour,  or  till  properly  melted  ; 
then  rub  them  through  a  tammis  into  a  clean  stew- 
pan  with  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  let 
them  simmer  together  a  few  minutes. 

To  preserve  tomatas. — Choose  them  quite  ripe  ; 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

put  them  into  an  earthen  jar,  and  bake  them  till 
they  are  tender,  which  will  take  about  two  hours; 
pulp  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  to  each  pound 
add  a  quarter  ounce  of  ground  white  pepper,  the 
same  of  mace,  an  ounce  of  minced  shallots,  half  an 
ounce  of  garlic,  and  an  ounce  of  glaze,  or  portable 
soup ;  boil  the  whole  together  till  every  ingredient 
is  tender ;  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  to  each 
pound  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons  ;  boil  the 
whole  together  again  till  it  is  the  thickness  of 
good  cream  ;  put  it  into  half-pint  preserving  pots 
or  bottles ;  take  care  they  are  closely  corked  ; 
when  once  opened,  the  air  soon  spoils  it :  it  should 
be  kept  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

Mock  Tomata  Sauce,     (No.  293.) 

Take  any  quantity  of  sharp  tasted  apples,  and 
reduce  them  into  a  pulp  as  in  making  apple  sauce ; 
put  them  into  a  mortar  with  as  much  turmeric  as 
will  give  them  the  colour  of  tomatas,  and  as  much 
chili  vinegar  as  will  give  it  the  same  degree  of  acid 
flavour  that  the  tomata  has ;  add  to  each  quart 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  garlic,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
shallots,  shred  fine  ;  put  all  into  a  well-tinned 
saucepan,  and  mix  them  well  together,  and  give 
them  a  gentle  boil ;  when  cold,  take  out  the  garlic 
and  shallot,  and  put  the  sauce  into  small  stone  bot- 
tles :  your  sauce  should  be  of  the  consistence  of  a 
thick  syrup,  which  may  be  regulated  by  the  chili 
vinegar. 

Ohs.  —  The  only  difference  between  this  and 
the  genuine  love-apple  sauce,  is  the  substituting 
the  pulp  of  apple  for  the  pulp  of  tomata,  and  giv- 
ing the  colouring  with  turmeric. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 


Shallot  Sauce,     (No.  294.) 

Mince  four  shallots  very  fine;  put  them  into  a; 
stewpan  with  a  quarter  pint  of  water,  two  table- 1 
spoonsful  of  vinet^ar,  and  one  of  white  wine,  one  '\ 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  a  little  salt :  \ 
stew  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  i 

Or,  I 

You  may  make  this  sauce  more  extemporane- 1 
ously,  by  putting  two  teaspoonsful  of  shallot  vine- ; 
gar,  a  tablespoonful  of  white  wine,  and  a  table-  j 
spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup,  into  halfapintofj 
melted  butter. 

Ohs,  —  This  is  an  excellent  sauce  with  rump-  j 
tsteaks,  and  many  are  very  fond  of  it  with  roasted  . 
fowls,  chickens,  or  capons. 

Shallot  Sauce,  for  Boiled  Mutton,  (No.  9*95,)  \ 

Cut  four  shallots  very  fine,  and  put  them  into  a  j 
small  saucepan  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  the  li-  j 
quor  the  mutton  has  boiled  in  ;  let  them  boil  up  : 
for  five  minutes ;  then  put  a  tablespoonful  of  vine-  \ 
gar,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  a  little  j 
salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  as  big  as  a  small  walnut,  ; 
well  rolled  in  flour;  shake  all  together;  give  it  a 
boil  up. 

Young  Onion  Sauce,    (No.  296.)  \ 

Clean  and  peel  some  young  onions,  cut  them  in-  : 
to  thin  slices,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  i 

4        : 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

slice  of  bacon,  one-quar(er  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  set  them  over 
the  fire  ;  when  they  be^in  to  heat,  moisten  them 
with  four  tablespoonsful  of  water  ;  let  them  stew 
for  ten  minutes  ;  take  out  the  bacon,  squeeze?  in 
half  a  lemon,  and  send  it  up  hot. 

Onion  Sauce.    (No.  297.) 

Those  who  like  the  full  flavour  of  onions,  only 
cut  off  the  strings  and  tops,  without  peeling  off  any 
of  the  skins  ;  put  them  into  salt  and  water,  and  let 
them  lie  an  hour ;  wash  them,  and  put  them  into 
a  kettle  with  plenty  of  water,  and  boil  them  till 
they  are  tender  ;  then  take  off  as  many  skins  as 
you  please  ;  pass  them  through  a  cullender,  and 
mix  a  little  melted  butter  with  them. 

Onion  Sauce.     (No.  298.) 

The  following  is  a  more  delicate  preparation  : — 
Take  eight  of  the  largest  and  whitest  onions,  (the 
Spanish  are  the  whitest  and  mildest,  but  these  can 
only  be  had  from  August  to  December,)  peel 
them,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  and  boil  them 
in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  three  pints  of  water  ;  when 
they  are  boiled  tender,  which  will  sometimes  take 
an  hour  (the  quicker  they  are  boiled,  the  whiter 
they  will  be),  drain  them  well  on  a  hair  sieve,  and 
pass  them  through  a  cullender  with  a  wooden 
spoon  ;  put  them  into  a  clean  saucepan,  with  an 
ounce  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  cream, 
or  good  milk  ;  mix  well,  and  simmer  five  minutes. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

OhS'  —  This  is  the  common  sauce  for  boiled  i 
rabbits  or  ducks  :  they  are  laid  dry  in  the  dish,  | 
and  this  sauce  is  poured  over  them.  There  must  j 
be  plenty  of  it ;  the  usual  expression  signifies  as  ! 
luuch,  for  we  say,  smother  them.  j 

Fried  Onion  Sauce.     (No.  C99.) 

Slice  a  couple  of  larc^e  onions,  and  fry  them  in  \ 
butter,  turning  them  often,  till  they  take  a  good; 
brown  colour  ;  then  pour  in  a  teacupful  of  broth 
or  water,  with  a  tablespoonfnl  of  mushroom  catsup,  \ 
and  same  of  table-beer,  a  few  pepper-corns,  a  little 
salt,  and  a  tablespoonfnl  of  flour;  cover  the  sauce- ^ 
pan  close,  and  let  it  simmer  half  an  hour,  till  it  is 
reduced    to   the   thickness   you  wish;    press   it; 
through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  a  teaspoonful  of  | 
made  mustard  to  it,  and  stir  well  together.  i 

Obs. — Haifa  pint  of  young,  on  ions,  about  as  big  \ 
as  nutmegs,  peeled  and  put  in  whole,  and  fried  with  | 
them^,  will  be  an  elegant  addition  to  the  above.       i 

Sage  and  Onion  Sauce,    (No.  300.)         ; 

Cut  a  large  onion  into  small  dice,  mince  an: 
ounce  of  sage  leaves  very  fine;  put  them  into  ai 
stewpan  with  half  an  ounce  of  butter  ;  fry  them  a  ■ 
little,  but  do  not  let  them  get  any  colour ;  make ; 
half  a  pint  of  thin  melted  butter,  and  mix  it  with, 
the  sage  and  onions;  then  put  a  teacupful  of  bread  ■ 
crumbs  to  the  melted  butter  and  herbs;  season . 
with  ground  black  pepper  and  salt ;  mix  it  well, ; 
and  let  it  boil  five  minutes. 

Obs — This  is,  in  fact,  goose  stufling,  and  ai 
3 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

very  relishing  sauce  for  green   peas  on  raaigre 
dajs. 

Portugal  Onio7i  Sauce.     (No.  301.) 

Roast  a  couple  of  fine  large  onions  in  a  cliecse- 
toaster  or  Dutch  oven  till  (hey  arc  somewhat  more 
than  half  done  ;  peel  them,  and  take  off  the  first 
coat ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  half  a  pint  of 
good  broth  (or  that  quantity  of  water,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup),  and  a  table- 
spoojjful  of  flour;  season  it  with  salt  and  a  few 
grains  of  Cayenne  pepper,  a  glass  of  port  wine, 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  let  all  simmer  to* 
gether  till  tender  enough  ;  rub  them  through  a 
cullender,  and  mix  a  little  bit  of  butter  with  them, 
and  you  will  have  a  most  admirable  sauce. 

Carrier'  Sauce.     (No.  302.) 

j\'ly  ingenious  predecessor,  Dr.  King,  in  his  let- 
ter io  Dr.  Lister  {tide  *' King's  Art  of  Cookery^'') 
says  :  ''  The  following  is  the  true  receipt  for  mak- 
ing '  The  Carrier  Sauce,'  which  1  have  from  an 
ancient  manuscript,  remaining  at  the  Bull  Inn,  in 
BishopsgateStreet  :-Take  seven  spoonsful  of  spring 
water,  slice  two  onions,  of  moderate  size,  into  a 
large  saucer,  and  put  in  as  much  salt  as  you  can 
hold  at  thrice  betwixt  your  forefinger  and  thumb, 
if  large,  and  serve  it  up.  Prohatum  est,  Hobson, 
carrier  to  the  University  of  Cambridge." 

3Ii}it  Sauce.    (No.  303.) 

Wash  half  a  handful  of  mint,  pick  the  leaves 
from    the    stalks,   and  mince   them    very    fine; 

L 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES.  i 

put  it  into  a  sauceboat,  with  a  feaspoonful  ofj 
moist  sugar,  and  four  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar;  '■ 
mix  well  together. 

0^5.  —  This  is  an  inseparable  companion  to! 
hot  lamb;  we  wish  to  see  it  also  as  constantly! 
coming  to  table  with  cold  lamb.  If  green  mint' 
cannot  be  procured,  this  sauce  may  be  made  with; 
mint  vinegar.     See  No,  398. 

Jpple  Sauce,     (No.  304.) 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  three  good  sized  baking) 
apples,  put  them  into  a  pint  saucepan,  (cover  it 
close,  because  the  steam  helps  to  do  tliem,)  with 
one  clove,  a  bit  of  cinnamon  about  as  big  as  ai 
clove,  a  roll  of  lemon-peel  carefully  pared  thin,i 
without  any  of  the  white,  one  tablespoonful  of  cold' 
water,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  moist  sugar ;  set  the; 
saucepan  near  (but  not  on)  a  slow  fire  ;  be  sure  ta 
put  them  on  a  couple  of  hours  before  dinner,  for 
some  apples  will  take  an  hour's  stewing,  and  others 
will  be  ready  to  press  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  :; 
when  the  apples  are  done  enough,  take  out  th^ 
spice  and  lemon-peel,  and  mash  the  apples  witU 
a  wooden  spoon. 


Mushroom  Sauce.     (No.  305.) 

Pick  a  pint  of  mushrooms  (the  smaller  the  bet- 
ter) very  clean,  wash  them,  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  with  one  blade  of  mace,  half  a  dozen 
corns  of  allspice  bruised,  and  half  a  bay  leaf,  a 
pint  of  milk,  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour  ',  set  them  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  stii 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

them  frequently  till  they  boil ;  let  them  boil  ten 
minutes,  and  leave  them  near  the  fire,  to  keep  hot, 
till  wanted. 

Mushroom  Sauce,  Broxvn.     (No.  306.) 

Clean  half  a  pint  of  small  mushrooms,  put  them 
into  half  a  pint  of  beef  gravy,  No.  186;  thicken 
with  flour  and  butter  ;  set  them  by  the  fire  to  stew 
gently  for  half  an  hour ;  take  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises ;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  send 
it  up. 

Italian  Sauce,  with  Mushrooms.     (No.  307.) 

Cut  off  the  stalks,  peel  off  the  skin,  scrape  away 
the  gills,  and  wash  very  clean  two  tablespoonsful  of 
small  white  mushrooms  ;  chop  them  fine,  and  throw 
them  into  a  little  lemon  juice  to  keep  them  white  ; 
chop  yourmushrooms  very  fine,  and  as  quick  as  pos- 
sible, or  they  will  turn  black,  and  spoil  the  colour 
of  your  sauce;  to  prevent  which,  we  recommend 
the  lemon  juice ;  put  them  into  a  clean  saucepan, 
with  half  a  pint  of  sauce  tournay,  a  teaspoonful  of 
eschallots  minced  fine  (and  washed  and  dried  in 
the  corner  of  a  clean  towel) ;  season  with  nutmeg, 
pepper,  and  salt;  reduce  the  sauce  a  little,  and 
send  it  up. 

Italian  Ramolade,     (No.  308.) 

This  is  a  cold  sauce,  made  without  any  heating, 

and  is  very  fashionable  in  Italy,  for  fish  which  are 

to  be  eat  cold,  or  any  other  cold  dish. — Squeeze 

a  large  lemon,  and  half  a  China  orange;  add  to 

h2  1 


SAUCES  AND   GRAVIES. 

this  half  a  teaspoon ful  of  basket  salt,  a  little  pep- 
per, and  as  much  oil  as  there  is  of  the  other  liquor  ; 
shred  some  parsley  very  fine,  wash  and  bone  a 
couple  of  anchovies  ;  mix  these  together,  and  put 
them  into  the  liquor  ;  then  cut  very  small  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  capers,  put  them  in,  stir  all  well  to- 
gether, and  send  it  to  table. 

Obs,  —  \^  e  want  a  cold  sauce  of  this  kind,  and 
this  is  an  exceeding  good  one  for  many  things — 
■with  cold  fowl,  turkey,  or  lamb — these  are  dry  and 
insipid  with  salt  alone,  and  our  English  cookery 
does  not  afford  any  method  of  eating  them  otlier- 
wise,  without  lieating  them  up,  by  wliich  they  lose 
a  great  deal  of  tlieir  sweetness.  This  sauce  is 
not  too  sharp,  for  the  oil  softens  the  vinegar ; 
and  it  is  very  finely  relished  with  a  mixed  fla- 
vour by  the  other  ingredients. 


Italian  Ramolade,  Hot,  (No.  309.)         \ 

Chop  parsley  very  fine,  an  equal  quantity  ofi 
capers,  shred  a  couple  of  anchovies,  peel  and' 
shave  very  thin  two  shallots,  and  a  clove  of  gar-; 
lick  ;  all  these  (being  cut  and  prepared  separately); 
must  be  mixed  together  :  set  on  a  stewpan  with  ai 
quarter  pint  of  gravy,  add  to  it  two  tablespoonsfuli 
of  oil,  a  spoonfid  of  mustard,  and  the  juice  of  a 
large  lemon  ;  when  all  this  is  hot  together,  put  m, 
the  ingredients,  with  some  pepper,  and  a  very  lit-; 
tie  salt,  and  some  leaves  of  sv»'eet  herbs,  pickedi 
from  the  stalks,  and  minced  fine;  stir  all  well  to- 
fijether,  and  five  minutes  over  a  eood  fiie  willi 
do  it.  "  ! 

Ohs. — This  is  copied  from  the  same  school  as  lliei 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

last  sauce  ;  it  is  sent  up  in  a  sauce-boat,  with  boil- 
ed fowls,  veal,  and  many  dishes  of  the  boiled  kind. 

Poor  Mans  Sauce.      (No.  310.) 

Pick  a  handful  oFparsley  leaves  from  the  stalks, 
mince  them  very  fine,  strew  over  a  little  salt,  shred 
fine  half  a  dozen  young  onions;  add  these  to  the 
parsley,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce-boat,  with  three 
lablespoonsful  of  oil,  and  five  of  vinegar;  add 
some  ground  black  pepper ;  stir  all  together,  and 
send  it  up. 

Obs,  —  This  sauce  is  in  much  esteem  in  France, 
where  the  people  of  taste,  weary  of  so  many  rich 
dishes,  to  obtain  the  charm  of  variety,  occasionally 
order  the  fare  of  the  peasant. 

"  The  rich,  tir'd  with  continual  feasts, 
"  For  change  become  their  next  poor  tenant's  guests  ; 
"  Drink  hearty  draughts  of  ale  from  plain  brown  bowls, 
"  And  snatch  the  homely  rasher  from  the  coals." 

Dryden's  Fi'ologue  to  "  All  for  Love.'* 

Garlick  Gravy.     (No.  311.) 

Slice  a  pound  and  a  half  of  veal  or  beef,  pepper 
and  salt  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  couple 
of  carrots  split,  and  three  turnips,  and  four  cloves 
of  garlick  sliced,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  water  ; 
set  the  stewpan  over  a  gentle  fire  in  a  stove,  and 
watch  when  the  meat  begins  to  stick  to  the  pan  ; 
when  it  does  so,  turn  it,  and  let  it  be  all  very  well 
browned,  but  take  care  it  is  not  at  all  burnt;  pour 
in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  gravy,  and  put  in  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  four  blades  ot  mace,  and  a  couple 
hS 


SAUCES  AXD  GRAVIES. 

of  cloves  bruised,  and  slice  in  a  lemon  ;  set  it  on 
a^aiii,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gentlj  for  half  an 
lioiir  longer;  throw  in  a  little  flour  from  time  to 
liiiie,  till  the  gravy  is  as  thick  as  you  wish  ;  then 
take  off  tlie  fat,  strain  the  gravy  from  the  ingredi- 
ents by  pouring  it  through  a  napkin,  straining  and 
pressing  it  very  hard. 

Obs.  —  This  was  the  secret  of  the  old  Spaniard 
who  kept  the  house  of  that  name  on  Ha.npstead- 
heath,  and  with  this  he  acquired  his  fame  for  fla- 
vouring his  olios  and  ragouts,  See.  :  for  those  who 
love  garlick,  tliis  is  an  extremely  rich  and  flue 
tiavoured  sauce. 

Mr.  31  ic  ha  el  KcHys  *  Sauces  for  Boiled 
Caljhead  or  Cozcheel. 

Garlick  vinegar  a  lablespoonful,  of  mustard, 
brown  sugar,  while  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  each  ; 
stirred  imo  jjalf  a  pint  of  oiled  melted  butter. 

Mr.  Kelly's  Sauce  Fiquanic. 

Pouiul  a  tablespoonful  of  capers,  and  one  of 
minced  parsley,  as  tijie  as  possible  ;  tlien  add  the 
yolks  of  three  hard  eggs,  rub  them  well  together 
■with  a  tablespoonful  of  mustard, bone  six  anchovies, 
and  pound  them  ;  rub  through  a  hair  sieve,  and 
mix  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  oil,  one  of  vine<i\ar, 
one  of  shallot  diito  ;  rub  all  these  well  togetlier  '\\\ 
a  mortar,  till  thoroughly  incorporated,  and  then 
stir  them  into  half  a  pint  of  good  gravy  or  melted 
butter. 

*  Composer  and  Director  of  the  Music  at  the  Theatre  Royal, 
Drnrv-Jane. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES^ 


Ravigotte  Sauce.     (No.  312.) 

Pick  from  the  stalks  and  shred  very  fine,  some 
tarragon  and  chervil,  or  some  parsley,  balm,  and 
tliyme ;  cut  two  large  onions  into  thin  slices, 
chop  these  fine,  and  put  all  into  a  marble  mortar, 
and  pound  it  thoroughly  ;  add  some  pepper  and 
salt,  some  rocambole,  and  two  blades  of  pounded 
mace  ;  beat  all  these  well  together,  and  mix  some 
gravy  with  th^m  by  degrees,  till  the  whole  is  a 
mash  about  the  thickness  of  batter ;  put  it  into  a 
stew  pan  and  boil  it  up,  and  after  that  strain  it  off, 
squeezing  it  well  in  the  tammy  :  add  to  it  half  a 
glass  of  white  wine,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  oil; 
beat  it  well  up,  and  serve  up  in  a  sauceboat.  It 
is  eaten  with  roast  veal,  and  most  other  roasts. 


Burnet  Sauce.     (No.  313.) 

Throw  some  fresh  and  tender  leaves  of  Burnet  into 
boiling  water;  pat  into  the  same  water  some  mint, 
parsley,  and  half  a  dozen  young  onions:  boil  all 
together  for  a  couple  of  minutes;  then  throw 
them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  drain  them  dry,  by 
squeezing  them  in  a  cloth,  and  then  mince  them 
as  tine  as  possible.  Set  on  a  stewpan,  with  half  a 
pint  of  veal  gravy,  put  in  a  rocambole,  and 
shred  in  an  anchovy,  squeeze  in  half  a  lemon, 
add  pepper  and  salt,  and  two  large  spoonsful  of 
fine  oil  :  when  it  is  all  heated  together,  throw  iu 
the  chopped  herbs,  let  it  boil  up  two  or  three 
times,  and  serve  it  up  hot  with  any  thing  roasted. 
l4 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

Obs.  —  This  is  another  of  the  sauces  the  Italians 
call  rairgottes,  and  one  of  the  best  of  that  sort,  the 
Burnet  giving  it  a  very  agreeable  flavour. 

Tarragon  Sauce.     (No.  314.) 

Pick  and  wash  a  handful  of  tarragon  leaves, 
put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  half  a  pint  of 
water ;  let  them  stew  till  they  are  tender ;  rub 
them  through  a  sieve  ;  take  three  tablespoonsful 
of  the  water  they  boiled  in^  an  ounce  of  butter, 
and  two  teaspoonsful  of  flour  ;  warm  these  to- 
gether, and  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  sherry,  or 
Madeira,  one  of  tarragon  vinegjir,  or  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  and  a  tcaspoonful  of  sugar. 

.  Herb  Sauce  Piquant e.   (No.  3\5.) 

Mince  a  thin  slice  of  a  clove  of  garlick  with 
some  parsley,  tarragon,  chervil,  burnet,  and  basil, 
each  in  proportion  to  llieir  flavours  :  wlien  well 
waslied  and  squeezed  dry,  let  it  simmer  in  a  little 
water,  without  boiling  ;  press  through  a  sieve, 
add  a  bit  of  butter,  flour,  pepper,  and  salt;  boil 
it  io  a  good  consistence,  and  add  lemon  juice  to 
make  it  relishing  and  smart  tasted. 

Truffle  Sauce.     (No.  316.) 

Make  a  quart  of  beef  gravy,  No.  186,  wash  and 
peel  a  dozen  truflies,  put  the  peels  into  the  gravy, 
let  it  boil  half  an  hour ;  then  strain  it  into  a  clean 
saucepan ;  then  put  in  your  truffles,  let  them  boil 
half  an  hour  longer,  and  serve  up. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

Truffles  may  almost  always  be  procured  at  the 
respectable  oil  shops  in  London,  either  preserved 
in  fat,  or  dried. 

Obs.  —  This  is  a  sauce  the  French  eat  frequently 
v/ith  butcher's  meat;  they  make  sauces  of  mush- 
rooms and  morells  in  the  same  manner,  and 
they  are  very  fine.  In  this  respect,  they  proceed 
upon  much  better  principles  than  we  in  our  cook- 
ery, who  generally  have  butter  for  the  foundation 
of  our  sauces. 

Fried  Farsley.     (No.  3 1 7.) 

\j^i  it  be  well  picked  and  washed,  put  it  info  a 
cloth,  and  swing  it  backwards  and  forwards  till  it 
is  perfectly  dry ;  put  it  into  a  pan  of  hot  fat,  fry 
it  quick,  and  have  a  slice  ready  to  take  it  out  the 
moment  it  is  crisp,  (if  you  let  \i  stay  too  long,  it 
will  look  black,)  put  it  on  a  sieve  or  coarse  cloth 
before  the  fire  to  drain. 

Crisp  Parsley,     (No.  3  J  8.) 

Pick  and  wash  a  handful  of  young  parsley,  and 
shake  it  in  a  dry  cloth  to  drain  the  water  from  it ; 
spread  it  on  a  sheet  of  clean  paper,  and  lay  it  in 
the  Dutch  oven  before  the  fire,  and  lay  some  very 
little  bits  of  butter  on  it ;  turn  it  frequently  until  it 
is  quite  crisp.  This  is  a  much  more  easy  and 
elegant  way  of  preparing  it,  than  the  usual  way 
of  frying  it,  which  is  not  seldom  ill  done. 

Obs.  —  It  is  a  very  pretty  garnish  for  lamb 
chops,  &c. 

L  5 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 


Fried  Bread  Sippets.     (No.  319.) 

Cut  a  slice  rather  more  than  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  divide  it  ^vith  a  siiarp  kitchen  knife 
into  pieces  two  inches  square  ;  shape  these  into 
(riano^les,  or  crosses  :  put  a  tablcspoonful  of  clean 
dripping  into  an  iron  fryingpan ;  when  it  is 
melted,  put  in  the  sippets,  and  fry  them  a  light 
l)rown  ;  take  them  up  with  a  fish-slice,  and  drain 
them  on  a  hair  sieve,  that  they  may  not  be  greasy. 

Ohs»  —  These  arc  a  pretty  garnish,  and  very 
relishing  accompaniment,  and  will  be  an  improve- 
ment to  the  flavour  of  the  finest  made  dishes  : 
they  may  also  be  sent  up  with  peas  and  other 
soups  ;  but  when  intended  for  soups,  they  should 
be  cut  in  bits  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  an 
inch  square. 

Fried  Bread  Crumbs.     (No.  320.) 

Rub  a  pint  of  crumbs  of  bread  (that  has  been 
baked  three  days)  through  a  wire  sieve,  or  fine 
cullender ;  or  you  may  rub  tliem  in  a  cloth  till 
tbey  are  as  small  and  fine  as  if  they  bad  been 
grated ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  half  an 
ounce  of  butter,  place  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  and 
stir  them  about  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  they 
are  the  colour  of  a  guinea ;  pour  them  into  a 
sieve,  and  let  them  stand  ten  minutes  to  drain. 

Obs.  — These  crumbs  are  sent  up  with  roasted 
sweetbreads,  or  larks,  pheasants,  partridges,  wood- 
cocks, and  grouse,  or  moor  game,  especially  if 
they  have  been  kept  long  enough* 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 


Bread  Sauce,     (No.  32 1 .) 

Take  half  a  pint  of  milk,  put  it  on  to  boil,  with 
an  onion  in  it,  and  two  blades  of  mace,  and  a 
dozen  corns  of  black  pepper  tied  up  in  a  muslin 
bas^ ;  when  it  has  boiled  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
strain  the  milk,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  two 
tablespoonsful  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  (stale  bread 
is  best,)  that  have  been  rubbed  through  a  cullen- 
der, or  wire  sieve,  boil  ten  minutes  in  an  opea 
saucepan,  taking  care  they  do  not  burn. 

Obs.  —  You  may  rub  the  bread  in  a  clean 
cloth,  till  the  crumbs  are  as  fine  as  if  they  had 
been  grated,  or  rubbed  through  a  cullender. 

Plain  Browning     (No.  322.) 

Is  a  very  convenient  article  in  the  kitchen,  to 
add  to  those  soups  or  sauces  where  it  is  supposed 
the  deep  brown  of  its  complexion  denotes  the 
strength  and  savouriness  of  the  composition, 
and  is  a  very  good  substitute  for  what  is  called 
"  India,  or  Japan  soy."  Put  half  a  pound  ofmoist 
sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  water  into  a  clean 
iron  saucepan,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  keep 
stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  the  sugar  is 
burnt  to  a  dark  brown  colour  ;  then  add  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  more  water,  let  it  boil  up,  take  off  the 
scum,  and  strain  the  liquor  into  bottles,  which  must 
be  well  stopped  :  if  you  have  not  any  of  this  by 
you,  and  you  wish  to  darken  the  colour  of  your 
sauces,  pound  a  teaspoonfulof  lumpsugar,  and  put 
into  a  large  iron  spoon,  with  as  much  water  as 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

will  dissolve  it;  hold  it  over  a  quick  fire  till  it 
becomes  a  very  dark  brown ;  mix  it  with  your 
soup,  &c.,  while  it  is  hot. 

Obs. — The  above  are  merely  colouring  mat- 
ters; most  of  the  preparations  under  this  title  arc 
a  medley  of  burnt  butter,  spices,  catsup,  wine,  &c., 
but  we  recommend  the  rational  epicure  to  be  con- 
tent with  the  natural  colour  of  soups  and  sauces, 
which  to  a  well  educated  palate  are  much  more 
agreeable  without  any  of  these  cmpyreumatic  ad- 
ditions. 

Greening,    (No.  3!23.) 

Pound  a  handful  of  spinnage  in  a  mortar,  and 
squeeze  the  juice  from  it. 

Red,     (No.  324.) 
With  the  juice  of  beet  root  or  cochineal ;  for 

Yellozv,     (No.  325..) 

The  yolks  of  eggs^  or  saffron  steeped  and 
squeezed. 

Gravy  for  Roast  Meat,     (No.  32d) 

Most  joints  will  afford  sufficient  trimmings, 
&;c.  to  make  half  a  pint  of  plain  gravy,  for  those 
that  do  not. 

When  your  meat  is  in  the  dish  you  intend  to 
send  it  up  on,  pierce  the  interior  part  of  the  joint 
with  a  sharp  skewer,  and  mix  half  a  teaspoonful 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

of  salt  with  a  quarter  pint  of  boiling  water;  pour 
part  of  it  on  the  under  side  of  the  meat,  and  tlw; 
rest  through  the  hole  the  spit  came  out  of:  be 
sure  not  to  pour  it  over  the  top,  or  any  part  of  the 
meat  that  will  be  seen,  as  it  washes  off  the  froth, 
and  will  spoil  the  look  of  the  meat.  If  any  gravy 
comes  down  in  the  dish,  the  cook  will  take  care 
of  it  for  the  hash,  if  she  is  a  good  housewife. 

Obs — Some  culinary  professors,  who  think 
nothing  can  be  excellent  that  is  not  extravagant, 
call  this  "  Scots  gravy,"  not,  I  believe,  intending 
it,  as  it  certainly  is,  a  compliment  to  the  laud- 
able and  rational  frugality  of  that  intelligent  and 
sober-minded  people. 

Gravy  for  Boiled  Meat     (No.  327.) 

May  be  made  from  some  parings  and  trimmings 
as  for  the  roast  meat,  or  pour  from  a  quarter  to 
half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  the  meat  was  boiled  in, 
into  the  dish  with  it,  and  pierce  the  inferior  part 
of  the  joint  with  a  sharp  skewer. 

TVow  JVow  Sauce,  for  Bouilli  Beef 
(No.  328.) 

Chop  some  parsley  leaves  very  finely,  quarter 
two  or  three  pickled  cucumbers,  and  divide  them 
into  small  squares  ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as  an  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  and  almost  half  a  pint  of  the  broth  the  beef 
was  boiled  in  ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar, 
and  the  like  quantity  of  mushroom  catsup,  two 
of  good  table  beer,  and  a  teaspobnful  of  made 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

muslaid  ;  let  it  simmer  to£jellier  till  it  is  as  thick 
as  you  wish  it ;  pour  it  over  the  bouilli,  or  send 
it  up  in  a  sauce-tureen. 

Obs. — If  you  like  it  more  relishing,  add  to  the 
above  two  teaspoonsful  of  capers,  or  a  minced 
shallot,  or  one  or  two  (oaspoonsful  of  shallot  vine- 
gar, or  basil  or  elder  vinegar ;  or  strew  over  the 
meat  minced  capers,  walnuts,  red  cabbage,  or 
pickled  cucumbers. 

2b  make  Gravy, 

As  the  object  in  making  gravy  is  to  completely 
extract  the  nutritious  succulence  of  the  meat,  it  is 
necessary  that  the  meat  should  be  well  beaten,  to 
comminute  the  containing  vessels;  and  scored,  to 
augment  the  surface  to  the  action  of  the  water. 

Take  a  pound  of  lean  beef,  beat  it  well  with  a 
rolling  pin,  score  it  in  all  directions,  add  pepper 
and  salt,  some  scraped  carrot,  sliced  onion  or 
shallot,  and  allspice;  put  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter at  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan,  and  keep  ifc 
over  a  very  gentle  fire  for  half  an  hour,  when 
about  a  quaiter  pint  of  rich  and  intrinsic  gravy 
will  be  obtained ;  add  to  the  remaining  meat  as 
niuch  water  as  will  cover  it,  a  small  quantity  of 
isinglass,  and  a  piece  of  bread  gradually  toasted 
very  brown  ;  let  this  gewWy  simmer  for  an  hour, 
or  till  more  than  half  is  evaporated ;  strain  it,  and 
add  it  to  the  former.  A.  C.  Junr, 

Beef  Gravy  Sauce.    (No.  329.) 
Cut  a  pound  of  nice  juicy  gravy  beef  into  thi»; 


SAUCES  AXD  GRAVIES. 

slices,  and  about  an  ounce  of  bacon,  or  ham,  or 
fresli  butter  ;  lay  them  at  the  bottom  of  a  two  quart 
stevvpan,  with  one  blade  of  mace  tied  up  in  a 
nosegay  of  a  small  spris:  of  sweet  marjoram,  the 
same  of  winter  savory  or  lemon-thyme  and  parsley, 
a  rolloflemon-peel,  two  cloves  stuck  into  a  middling 
sized  onion,  a  dozen  berries  of  allspice,  and  half 
a  dozen  of  black  pepper  ;  put  to  this  three  table- 
spoonsful  of  water,  cover  it,  and  set  it  on  a  slow 
fire  till  the  liquor  is  all  boiled  away,  and  the  meat 
has  got  very  well  browned,  but  take  care  it  is 
vot  at  nil  burnt:  the  time  this  will  take  depends 
so  much  on  the  state  of  the  fire,  the  best  way  to 
make  sure  of  your  sauce  is,  when  it  has  been  boil- 
ing a  few  minutes,  take  oft'  the  cover  and  watch 
it;  when  the  meat  has  got  a  nice  brown,  pour  ia 
a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  when  it  boils,  catch 
the  scum,  and  put  in  a  crust  of  bread  toasted  very 
brown,  and  let  it  stew  very  gently  for  an  hour 
and  a  half:  take  a  spoonful  of  thickening,  made 
as  per  receipt,  No.  237,  stir  it  into  it  by  degrees, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
longer,  strain  it  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  or  tammis 
cloth,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup,  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  one  of  pepper.  This 
will  be  a  rich,  high  brown  sauce  for  fish,  fowl, 
or  ragout. 

Obs.  —  If  you  wish  to  make  it  still  more  relish- 
ing, especially  if  it  is  to  be  eaten  with  game,  or 
wild  water-fowl;  you  may  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
port  wine,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a 
roll  of  the  rind  cut  thin,  and  if  you  think  it  not 
strong  enough,  use  double  the  quantity  of  meat 
and  bacon. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 


Ragcut  SaucCy  or  strojig  Beef  Gravy  with  I 

Mushrooms.     (No.  330.)  \ 

Choose  a  dozen  very  large  flaps,  the  big-gest  \ 
full  opened  rniishrooiTis  that  you  can  gci^  cut  out  j 
t]}e  sfaiks,  peel  off  the  skin,  and  scrape  away  the  ■ 
gills,  tlien  strew  over  them  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  \ 
Cut  three  pounds  of  sleaks,  half  an  inch  thick,  ' 
from  a  good  part  of  the  beef,  where  there  is  little 
fat ;  the  leg  of  mutton,  or  neck  piece,  is  very  pro- 
per for  this  purpose.  Beat  the  steaks  well,  and  \ 
season  them  moderately  with  a  little  salt.  Cover  i 
the  bottom  of  a  gallon  stewpan  with  a  couple  of  i 
slices  of  fat  bacon ;  upon  these  lay  four  or  five  of  the  \ 
mushrooms,  then  lay  in  some  of  the  beef  steaks,  ■ 
upon  these  the  rest  of  the  mushrooms,  and  the  ; 
rest  of  the  beef  steaks  over  them.  Cut  to  pieces  ! 
two  onions  and  four  carrots,  half  a  dozen  cloves,  ; 
four  blades  of  mace,  a  dozen  and  a  half  berries  of  ] 
black  pepper,  and  a  dozen  of  allspice,  as  much  | 
grated  nutmeg  as  will  lay  on  a  sixpence,  and  a  I 
faggot  of  thyme,  knotted  marjoram,  winter  sa-  ] 
vory,  and  parsley,  whose  stems  when  tied  up  j 
will  be  as  big  as  two  fingers  :  cover  the  stewpan,  '■ 
and  set  it  over  a  gentle  iire,  and  watch  how  the  i 
gravy  comes  ;  w  hen  there  is  a  good  deal,  set  it  on  ' 
a  better  fire,  and  let  it  boil  away  till  the  meat  is  \ 
nearly  dry,  and  it  begins  to  stick  to  the  pan  ;  (hen  | 
uncover  it,  stir  all  about,  and  put  the  vegetables  i 
and  herbs  undermost,  that  they  may  get  brown, 
but  take  care  they  are  not  hurned:  then  pour  in 
tl/ree  pints  of  boiling  water,  and  put  it  on  a  slow 
fire  to  simmer  gently  for  an   hour  and   a  half.  \ 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

Take  a  large  tablespoonful  of  thickening*,  made  as 
per  receipt,  No.  257,  and  stir  it  into  it  by  degrees, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
longer ;  strain  through  a  tammis  sieve  or  cloth. 

Obs\ — This  is  the  very  *' ne  plus  ultra"  of 
rich  gravy"  for  sauces,  ragouts,  and  made  dishes, and 
far  exceeds  the  most  costly  gravies  of  the  French, 
into  Avhich  they  put  partridges,  woodcocks,  Sec, 
This  quintessence  of  mushrooms  and  beef  is  in- 
comparably more  savoury  and  delicious. 

Onion  Gravi/,     (No.  331.) 

Peel  and  slice  two  or  three  large  onions,  put 
them  into  a  quart  stevvpan,  with  a  bit  of  butter 
about  as  big  as  a  walnut,  or  a  couple  of  table- 
spoonsful  of  water  ;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  and  turn 
the  onions  about  till  the3^  are  browned  ;  then  add 
half  a  pint  of  good  broth,  and  boil  them  till  they 
are  quite  tender ;  strain  the  broth  from  them, 
and  mince  them  very  fine  ;  thicken  your  sauce 
with  flour  and  butter,  and  season  it  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  put  the  onion  into  it,  and  simmer  all 
together  for  five  minutes. 

Ohs.  —  If  you  have  no  broth,  put  in  half  a  pint 
of  water,  and  just  before  you  give  it  (he  last  boil 
up,  add  to  it  a  large  tablespoonful  of  mushroom 
catsup,  and,  if  you  like,  the  same  quantity  of  port 
wine,  or  good  ale. 

MaigTe  Gravy.     (No.  332.) 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  large 
stcwpaflj  set  it  over  a  brisk  fire  ;  when  it  has  done 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

talking,  dredge  in  some  flour,  stir  it  about  till  it  is 
a  fine  yellow  colour,  and  then  put  in  three  or 
four  onions,  two  parsnips,  or  three  carrots  cut  into 
thin  slices ;  turn  them  with  a  wooden  spoon  till 
they  take  a  good  brown  colour ;  put  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour,  stir  well  together,  and  add  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water,  and  a  crust  of 
bread  toasted  brown ;  season  it  with  a  shallot 
minced  fine,  three  blades  of  pounded  mace,  two 
drachms  of  soup-herb  powder,  and  some  pepper 
and  salt ;  let  it  stew  two  hours  over  a  slow  fire, 
and  press  it  through  atammis  sieve  :  you  may  add 
port  wine,  mushroom  and  oyster  catsup,  or  lemon 
pickle. 

Fish  Gravy.    (No.  333.) 

Skin  and  clean  a  pound  of  good  eels  or  four  floun- 
ders, cut  them  to  pieces,  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water  ;  let  them 
boil  a  little  ;  put  in  two  blades  of  mace,  ten  corns 
of  whole  pepper,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a  piece  of 
bread  toasted  brown,  and  a  roll  of  lemon- peel ;  boil 
all  together  till  it  is  very  rich  ;  then  put  into  another 
saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  about  as  big  as  an 
i^s:g\  melt  it,  dredge  in  some  flour,  toss  it  about 
till  it  is  brown,  strain  the  gravy  to  it,  and  mix  all 
■well  together. 

Gravy  Sauce  for  Poultry,  without  Meat, 
(No.  334.) 

Take  the  neck,  legs,  liver  and  gizzard,  cut 
them  small,  and  boil  Ihem  in  a  pint  of  water,  with 
a  small  piece  of  bread  toasted  brown,  twelve  ber- 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

ries  of  black,  and  the  same  of  Jamaica  pepper,  a 
sprig  of  lemon-thyme  and  sweet  marjoram,  or  sa- 
vory, and  two  leaves  of  basil,  or  half  a  bay  leaf; 
(the  bones  of  any  kind  of  roast  meat  broken  to 
pieces,  and  stewed  with  it,  are  a  great  improve- 
ment ;  as  will  also  be  the  cuttings  or  trimmings 
of  any  joint  you  may  have  in  the  house  ;)  boil 
slowly  till  your  gravy  is  reduced  nearly  half; 
then  strain  it  into  a  clean  stewpan,  bruise  the 
liver  well,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  thicken  it  with  a  little  bit  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  browning,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  red  wine,  and  the  same  of  any 
kind  of  catsup  you  think  proper. 

Ohs.  —  If  you  have  no  cuttings  or  trimmings  of 
meat,  an  anchovy  will  sometimes  be  a  good  sub- 
stitute. 

Mock  Gravy  Sauce.     (No.  S'55.) 

Haifa  pint  of  water,  and  half  as  much  good 
small  beer,  or  two  tablespoonsful  of  ale  that  is 
neither  bitter  nor  stale,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet 
herbs  ;  slice  an  onion,  a  small  piece  of  thin  lemon- 
peel,  two  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  six  berries  of 
allspice,  and  the  same  of  black  pepper  bruised, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  the 
same  quantity  of  port  wine.  Put  a  bit  of  butter 
about  as  big  as  a  walnut  into  a  saucepan  ;  when 
it  is  melted,  put  in  a  sliced  onion,  shake  in  a  little 
flour,  stir  it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  the 
froth  sinks,  and  it  has  caught  a  little  brown  ;  then 
by  degrees  stir  in  the  above  ingredients,  and  let  it 
stew  for  half  an  hour,  and  strain  it  well,  and 
w  hen  cold  take  off  the  fat. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

Obs.  —  Mushroom  catsup  supplies  the  place  of 
meat  better  than  any  thing  :  if  jou  have  not  this, 
beer,  wine,  spices,  and  the  aromatic  roots  and 
herbs  variously  combined,  and  thickened  with 
flour  and  butter,  are  the  usual  substitutes  for 
meat;  but  those  families  who  are  frequently  in 
waul  ofgravy  sauces,  (without  plenty  of  which,  no 
cook  can  support  the  credit  of  her  kitchen,)  should 
keep  by  them  a  stock  of  portable  soup  or  glaze: 
by  the  help  of  this,  and  a  portion  of  the  above 
materials,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  ''  double  relish," 
or  ''  sauce  superlative,"  No.  429,  a  boat  of  the  best 
gravy  may  be  produced  in  a  few  minutes. 

Soup-Herb^  and  soon  made  Savoury  Sauce, 
(No.  336.) 

Put  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan;  as  soon  as  it  is  warm,  mix  with  it  half  an 
ounce  of  flour,  and  half  a  drachm  of  zest:  slir 
thoroughly  together  for  a  few  minutes,  and  pour 
in  by  ck-grees  almost  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
and  a  large  spoonful  of  port  wine;  let  it'boil  up 
for  five  minutes,  stirring  it  all  the  time;  season  it 
with  salt,  and  strain  it  through  a  tine  sieve,  and 
you  will  have  a  charming  relish  for  either  roast  or 
boiled  poultry  or  game/chops,  steaks,  &c. 

***  Zest  is  sold  by  the  publisher  of  this  work, 
and  by  Messrs.  Ball,  No.  81,  New  Bond  Street ; 
and  at  Mr.  Butler's  herb  shop,  opposite  Henrietta 
Street,  Covent  Garden. 

Gravy  Sauce,for  Game.     (No.  d37.) 
Add  two  teaspoonsful  of  port  wine,  and  (he 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

juice  of  half  a  lemon  to  half  a   pint  of  the  gravy 
sauce  for  poultry,  No  329. 

Orange  Gra^y  Sauce,  for  TVild  JDuclxS. 
(No.  338.) 

Set  on  a  saucepan  whli  half  a  pint  of  veal 
gravy,  No.  192,  half  a  dozen  leaves  of  basil,  aind 
an  onion;  let  it  boil  up  two  or  three  times,  and 
strain  it  off.  Put  to  the  clear  gravy  the  juice  of 
a  very  tine  Seville  orange,  or  two  lemons,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  same  of  pepper,  and  a 
glass  of  red  wine  ;  send  it  up  hot. 

Obs.  — This  is  an  excellent  sauce  for  widgeon, 
teal,  and  all  kinds  of  wild  water-fowl.  The  com- 
mon way  of  gashing  the  breast,  and  squeezing  in 
an  orange,  cooh  and  hardens  the  flesh,  and  com- 
pels every  one  to  eat  duck  that  way :  those 
who  have  the  true  taste  for  wild-fowl  eat  them 
very  little  done,  and  without  any  sauce.  Gra- 
vies should  always  be  sent  up  in  a  boat ;  tliey 
keep  hot  longer,  and  it  leaves  it  to  the  choice  of 
the  company  to  partake  of  it  or  not,  as  they  like ; 
and  for  those  who  choose  it,  there  is  no  way  of 
having  the  flavour  of  the  pepper  and  o.range  so 
well,  and  with  so  little  hurt  to  the  flesh  of  the 
fowl. 

Woodcock  Sauce,     (No.  339.) 

^Vhen  (he  woodcocks  are  roasted  take  out  the 
guts  and  livers,  bruise  them  Xo  a.  mash  with  a 
spoon,  press  it  through  your  sieve,  and  sprinkle 
on  them  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  add  two  large 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

spoonsful  of^ood  gravy,  and  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour  ;  boil  up  together. 

Pour  it  into  a  hot  dish,  cut  up  the  woodcocks 
in  it,  and  send  thera  to  table. 


Snipe  Sauce.     (No.  340.) 

The  snipe  in  a  great  measure  owes  i(s  sauce  to  ; 
itself,  and  there  is  a  way  of  making  it  very  fine,     j 

It  is  usual  to  roast  these  birds  without  drawing  ;  \ 
when  they  are  done  enough  take  them  off  the  spit,  | 
and  take  out  the  entrails  and  the  liver,  chop  them  j 
upon  a  trencher  :  set  on  a  small  saucepan,  with  ! 
some  veal  gravy  and  red  wine,  seasoned  with  a ; 
little  pepper  and  salt ;  put  in  the  entrails  and  the  ! 
liver,  mash  them  well  together,  and  squeeze  in  \ 
the  juice  of  an  orange  ;  thicken  your  sauce  with  | 
a  little  flour.  I 

Ohs^  —  There  are  two  ways  of  using  this  sauce  ;  ■ 
either  pour  it  into  a  dish,  and  lay  in  the  snipes 
over  it,  or  make  it  into  a  dish  with  them  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner  ;  cut  the  birds  to  pieces,  put  them 
into  the  sauce  when  it  is  well  thickened,  pour  the  ■ 
whole  into  a  dish,  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  | 
a  lemon.  i 

Bonne  Bouche,  for  Goose   or    Duck, 
(No.  341.) 

Mix  two  teaspoonsful  of  made  mustard,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne,  in  j 
two  tablespoonsful  of  port  wine  ;  pour  it  into  the  ! 
goose  by  a  slit  in  the  apron,  just  before  serving : 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

up*  ;  or,  as  all  the  company  may  not  like  it,  send 
it  up  in  a  boat,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  melted 
butter,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  catsup  or  cavice. 

Savoury  Sauce  for  Roast  Pork  or  Geese,  8^c, 
(No.  342.) 

Mince  a  large  onion  very  fine,  put  half  an  ounce 
of  butter  into  a  pint  stewpan,  fry  it,  turning  it  often 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  till  it  takes  a  light  brown 
colour,  then  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  thickening, 
No.  257,  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup, 
the  same  of  port  wine,  and  half  a  pint  of  warm 
water,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  the 
same  of  salt ;  let  them  boil  half  an  hour,  then  add 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  or  one  or  two  teaspoonsful  of 
vinegar. 

06s. —  The  French  call  this  sauce  "  Robert," 
(the  name  of  the  cook  who  invented  it,)  and  are 
very  fond  of  it  with  many  things. 

Turtle  Sauce.      (No.  343.) 

Put  into  your  stewpan  a  pint  of  beef  or  veal 
cuUis,  No.  189,  or  No.  192,  add  a  wineglass  of 
Madeira,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  the  peel 
of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  a  few  leaves  of  basil,  half 
a  bay  leaf,  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne  pepper  -, 


*  Thus  far  the  above  is  frdra  Dr.  Hunter's  "  Culina,"  wlio 
says  it  is  a  secret  worth  knowing :  we  agree  with  him,  and  so 
teil  it  here,  with  a  little  addition,  which  we  think  renders  it  a 
still  more  gratifying  communication. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIII^. 

\ci  lliem  simmer  together  for  ten  minutes  :  you. 
may  introduce  a  dozen  turtle  forcemeat  balls ;  see 
Receipt,  ^'o.  380,  &c. 

Obs. — This  is  a  delicious  sauce  for  stewed  veal, 
or  veal  cutlets,  or  any  dish  you  dress  turtle 
fashion,  which  itself  owes  all  its  estimation  io  the 
sauce  that  is  made  for  it ;  without  which,  it  would 
be  as  insipid  as  any  other  fish  is  without  sauce. 

lVi77e  Sauce  fo7^  Venison,      (No.  344.) 


A  quarter  of  a  pint  of  claret,  or  port  wine,  half  i 
the  quantity  of  water,  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  ] 
sugar;  let  it  once  boil  up  for  the  sugar  to  melt,  | 
and  send  up  in  a  sauce  boat.  '  ' 

ObS'  —  This  will  do  equally  well  for  a  hare.  ; 

Vinegar  Sauce  for  Venison,    (No.  345.)      \ 

Put  into  a  silver,  or  very  clean  and  well  tinned 
saucepan,  half  a  pint  of  the  best  white-wine  vine- 
gar, and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  finest  loaf-  ^ 
sugar ;  set  it   over   the   fire,    and.  let   it   simmer    \ 
gently ;  skim  it  carefully,  and  pour  it  through  a    ' 
flannel  jelly  bag,  and  send  it  up  in  a  basin. 

Obs.  —  Some  people  like  this  better  than  the 

s^weet  tcine  sauces '  ; 

Sweet  Saucefor  Venison.     (No.  346.)  ] 

Put  some  currant  jelly  into  a  stewpan  ;  when  it    ! 

is  melted,  pour  it  into  a  sauce-boat.  \ 

Obs.  —  Many  add  port  wine.  j 


SAtJCES  AND  GRAV7E5. 


Mutton  Gravijfor  Vtnison,     (No.  347.) 

The  best  gravy  for  venison,  is  that  made  of  the 
trimmings  of  tlie  joint:  if  this  is  all  used,  and 
you  have  not  trimmings  enough,  cut  a  scrag  of 
mutton  in  pieces,  and  fry  it  a  little  brown  in  an 
iron  fryingpan  ;  put  it  into  a  clean  stevvpan,  with 
a  quart  of  boiling  water,  cover  it  close,  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  for  an  hour,  then  uncover  yout 
stewpan,  let  it  reduce  to  a  pint,  drain  it 
through  a  hair  sieve,  take  the  fat  off,  and  send  it 
up  in  a  boat.  It  is  only  to  be  seasoned  with  salt, 
that  it  may  not  overpower  the  natural  flavour  of 
tJie  meat. 

Curry  Sauce     (No.  348.) 

Is  made  by  stirring  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
curry  powder  into  gravy,  or  melted  butter.  The 
composition  of  curry  powder  varies  so  much, 
we  cannot  give  any  specific  receipt  as  to  the 
quantity.  The  cook  must  add  it  by  degrees, 
tasting  as  she  proceeds,  and  taking  care  not  to  put 
in  too  much. 

Soup-htrh  and  Savoury  Powder^  or  Double 
Relish  Sauce,     (No.  34i^.) 

Is  made  in  the  same  way  with  the  powder. 
No.  385. 

Ham  Sauce  for  Poultry.    (No.  350,) 

Chop  the  legs  and  feet  of  a  roast  or  boiled  fowl, 
and  cut  three  or  four  thin  slices  of  ham  or  bacon, 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

bruise  them  lo  break  ibe  fibres,  and  make  (hem  part 
with  their  juice;  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  and 
let  them  sweat  over  a  slow  fire,  strew  over  them 
some  flour,  and  keep  stirring  them,  moisten  them 
with  half  a  pint  of  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
good  small  beer  ;  season  it  with  twelve  berries  of 
Jamaica,  and  the  same  of  black  pepper,  and  some 
sweet  herbs  ;  let  it  simmer  gently :  if  not  thick 
enough,  add  a  bit  of  butter  and  some  flour  :  let  it 
warm  together,  and  strain  it. 

Essence  of  Ham.     (No.  351.)    - 

Boil  a  ham  in  the  usual  way  ;  when  it  is  done 
enough,  run  an  iron  skewer  through  it  in  several 
places  ;  the  gravy  that  comes  from  it  is  the  "  true 
essence  of  ham:''''  put  it,  while  hot,  into  jelly 
glasses  ;  the  fat  that  runs  out  with  the  gravy  will 
cover  the  top,  and  preserve  it  for  six  months. 
The  ham  will  still  do  for  a  cold  relish,  or  for 
potting. 

Ohs.  —  This  is  certainly  the  very  quintessence 
of  ham,  but  so  expensive,  it  is  only  attainable  by 
gourmands  of  the  first  magnitude.  The  following 
preparation  will  supply  its  place  at  a  moderate 
cost. 

Ham  Sauce.     (No.  35^.) 

You  must  have  a  fine  and  well  flavoured 
ham,  or  the  sauce  will  be  good  for  nothing. 
Take  care  to  preserve  the  gravy  that  runs 
from  the  ham  when  it  is  cut  at  table;  and 
when  the  ham  is  pretty  well  eaten  down,  so  that 
it  cannot  appear  again  at  taWe^  nor  my  handsome 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

slices  be  cut  from  it,  pick  all  the  meat  clear  from 
the  bone,  (do  not  put  in  any  of  the  rusty  or  de- 
cayed parts,)  beat  it  well  with  a  rolling  pin,  that 
it  may  be  broken  in  every  part ;  put  this  mash 
into  a  saucepan,  with  a  slice  of  fat  bacon  at  the 
bottom,  and  some  carrot  and  an  onion   cut  into 
slices,  and  pour  in  two  or  three  tablespoonsful  of 
water;  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  ten  minutes; 
stir  it  about  till  it  sticks  to  the  bottom  of  the  stew- 
pan  ;  then  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  and  keep  stir- 
ring it  about  for  some  time,  for  it  will  more  and 
more  stick  to  the  bottom  ;  after  some  time,  add  to 
it  its  own  gravy  that  3^ou  have  saved,  and  pour 
in  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  (or  water  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  catsup,  if  you  have  no  gravy,)  and  add  a 
small  sprig  of  lemon-thyme,  sweet  marjoram,  and 
winter-savory,  two  leaves  of  sweet  basil,  and  a 
dozen  corns  of  black  pepper  ;  cover  up,  and  let  it 
stew  very  gently,  over  a  very  slow  fire,  for  about 
forty  minutes  ;  strain  off  the  gravy  through  a  fine 
sieve  ;  skim  it  well  ;  clear  it  with  the  white  of  an 
eggy  give  it  a  boil  up,  strain  through  a  tammis, 
and  when  cold  bottle  it  for  use. 

Obs. — This  ham  sauce  is  made  with  very 
moderate  expense,  and  is  equal  to  the  most  extra- 
vagant essences  of  ham  :  though  thus  easily  and 
cheaply  obtained,  it  is  a  very  rich  article  of  the 
sauce  kind,  and  will  be  found  very  convenient  to 
heighten  the  flavour  of  ragouts,  gravies,  &c.,  and 
for  veal,  capons,  &c. 

Minced   Ham    Sauce,  Jh?^  Eggs  or    Peas, 
(No.  353.) 

Two  or  three  slices  of  boiled  ham,  minced  very 
m2 


SAUCES  AXD  GRAVIES.  ! 

] 

fine,  \vi(li   a  gherkin,  and  a   morsel  of  onion,  a 

little    part^ley,  pepper,    and    nut«ieo;  ;    stew   all  ^ 
together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  :   when  it  is  time 

to  send  it  up,  let  your  sauce  be  lialf  boiling,  and  \ 

pour  it  over  the  eggs  or  peas.  \ 

Sauce  for  Veal  Cutlets.      (Xo.  3o4.) 

"When  you  have  fried  the  cutlets,    take  them  i 

out,  and  put  into  the  pan  four  tablespoonsful  of  | 

water,  a  few  sweet  herbs,  a  little  onion,  or  nut-  I 

meg,  and  a  little  lemon-peel  shred  fine  ;  thicken  it  \ 

y\'\{]\  a  hit  of  butter,  (as  big  as  a  walnut,)  rolled  in  j 

flour,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  Ball's  ca  vice,  or  lemon  j 

pickle,  and  pour  it  into  the  dish  of  cutlets.  j 

Grill  Sauce.     (No.  355.)  i 

To  half  a  pint  of  gravy  add  Iialf  an  ounce  of  ' 

fresh  butter,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  large  ' 
tablespoonful  of  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup,  two 
teaspoonsful  of  lemon  juice,    the  same  of  made 

mustard,  one  of  salt,  half  a  one  of  black  pepper,  i 

a  small  bit  of  the  rind  of  a  lemon  cut  very  thin,  a  \ 

teaspoonful  of  the  essence  of  anchovies,  and  one  of  ^ 

shalot  vinegar,  or  a  very  small  piece  of  minced  ' 

shalot;    simmer    together   for  ten    minutes,    and  i 

strain  it  ;  pour  a  little  of  it  over  the  grill,  and  | 

ifcnd  up  the  rest  in  a  sauce  tureen.  j 

Ohs. — This  is  a  most  delicious  relish  for  devil-  i 

led  chicken,  broiled  fowl,  pigeon,  &c.  i 

Sauce  for  Rump  Steahsy  or  Mutton  Chops.  \ 

(No.  556.)  ! 

Take  the  meat  out  of  the  fryingpan,  and  for  a  | 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

pound  of  meat  put  iu  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  two  teaspoonslul  of  flour,  and  ii 
tablespoonful  of  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup,  let  it 
boil  to<retber  a  few  niiuutcij,  and  pour  it  to  tbo 
steaks. 

Obs. — To  the  above  is  sometimes  added  a  sliced 
onion,  or  a  minced  eshallof,  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  port  wine  ;  to  these  some  add  a  pickled  cucum- 
ber or  walnut,  sliced  thin. 

Aspic,  or  Savoury  Jcllif  for  Cold  illcat,  &;c, 
(No.  357.) 

Spread  some  slices  of  lean  veal  and  ham  at  tlie 
bottom  of  a  stewpan,  with  a  carrot,  a  bundle  of 
sweet  herbs,  and  a  couple  of  onions;  cover  it,  and 
let  it  sweat  on  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  as  deep  a  brown 
as  you  would  have  it,  then  pour  in  a  quart  of 
broth  or  water;  if  it  is  water,  it  must  be  more 
reduced  than  if  it  is  broth  ;  set  it  on  to  boil;  skim 
it  well,  and  put  in  half  a  dozen  corns  of  black 
pepper,  two  blades  of  mace,  two  drachms  of 
isinglass,  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
let  it  simmer  slowly  on  a  gentle  fire  for  Uso 
hours  ;  skim  the  fat  off,  and  strain  it  through  a 
tammis  cloth  ;  when  it  is  got  cool,  put  to  it  the 
whites  or  shells  of  two  eggs  beat  well  together; 
put  it  in  a  stewpan,  and  with  a  whisk  stir  it 
quick  till  it  boils;  let  it  simmer  on  the  side  of  the 
fire  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  run  it  several  times 
through  a  tammis  cloth,  or  jelly  bag,  as  you  do 
other  jellies,  till  it  is  perfectly  clear  and  briglit ; 
pour  it  over  your  meat  or  fowls  in  the  dish  you  send 
them  uj)  on  :  it  is  a  very  prepossessing  varnish  ; 
or  cut  it  in  bits,  and  garnish  them  with  i{. 
m3 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

Ohs. — Tills  may  be  flavoured  ■svilh.  elder  or 
tarragon  vinegar. 

I\nssia?i  Sauce  for  Cold  Aleat,      (No.  358.) 

Two  tablespoonsfal  of  grated  horseradish,  two 
teaspoonsful  of  made  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  lump  sugar, 
distilled  vinegar  as  much  as  will  cover  the  in- 
gredients. 

Oh$,  —  A  most  excellent  sauce  for  cold  meat, 
nnd,  added  to  melted  butter,  makes  a  very  good 
fish  sauce.  Grate  or  scrape  the  horseradish  as 
line  as  possible. 

Sauce  for  Cold  Meat,  Poultry,   S^c. 
(No.  S.59.) 

Wash,  bone,  and  pound  an  anchovy  in  a  mar« 
ble  or  wedgewood  mortar,  wilh  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  that  have  been  boiled  hard  ;  add  to  it  by  de- 
grees three  tablespoonsfal  of  vinegar,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  made  mustard,  two  of  shallot  wine,  or 
basil  vinegar  ;  when  these  ingredients  are  tJio- 
roughly  mixed,  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  salad  oil ; 
rub  it  up  Avell  till  it  is  incorporated  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  strain  it  through  a  sieve. 

Sauce  for  Hashes  of  Mutt  021  or  Beef 
(No.  360.) 

Chop  the  bones  and  fragments  of  the  joint,  &c., 
and  put  them  into  a  two  quart  stewpan,  with  a 
quart  of  boiling  water,  six  berries  of  black  pep- 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

per,  and  the  same  of  allspice,  a  small  bundle  of 
parsley,  and  half  a  head  of  celery  cut  in  pieces, 
lemon-thyme  and  sweet  marjoram,  a  very  little 
bit  of  each  ;  cover  up,  and  let  it  boil  quick 
for  half  an  hour.  Cut  a  small  onion  very  fine, 
put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  fry 
it  over  a  sharp  fire  for  two  minutes,  (hen  stir  in 
as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  a  stiff  paste,  and 
mix  it  in  some  of  the  gravy  you  have  made  from 
the  bones,  &c. ;  pour  it  into  a  two  quart  stewpan, 
arid  let  it  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer  ; 
strain  it  through  a  taramis  into  a  basin  ;  put  it 
back  into  the  stewpan,  season  it  with  pep{)er  and 
salt,  cut  in  a  few  pickled  onions,  or  walnuts,  a 
couple  of  glierkins  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  two 
tablespoonsful  of  mushroom  catsup,  or  walnut 
pickle,  or  some  capers  and  caper  liquor,  or  two 
tablespoonsful  of  table  beer,  and  two  tablespoons- 
ful of  vinegar  ;  cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with 
sippets  of  bread,  toasted,  and  cut  into  triangles. 

Ohs. —  If  any  of  the  gravy  that  was  sent  up 
wl{h  the  joint  when  it  was  roasted  be  left,  it  Avill 
be  a  great  improvement  to  the  hash.  If  you  wish 
it  to  eat  like  venison,  instead  of  the  onion  put  in 
two  cloves,  a  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly,  and 
the  same  quantity  of  port  wine. 

Sauce  for  Hashed  or  Minced  Veal  (No.  36 1 .) 

Take  the  bones  of  cold  roast  or  boiled  veal, 
dust  half  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  on  ihem,  and  put 
them  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
water,  a  small  onion,  a  little  grated  lemon- 
peel,  or  the  peel  of  the  quarter  of  a  small  lemon 

M  4: 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

pared  as  ihin  as  possible,  half  a  teaspoon- 
fill  of  salt,  and  a  couple  of  blades  of  pound- 
ed mace.  Set  it  on  a  quick  fire,  and  let  it  boil  | 
haif  an  hour,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  it  i*  J 
r.^ady  (o  put  to  the  veal  to  warm  up.  Squeeze>  ! 
in  haif  a  lemon,  cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  i 
toasted  bread  sippets  cut  into  triangles. 

rVhite  Gravy  Sauce,     (No.  362.)  \ 

To  a  pound  of  lean  juicy  gravy  beef,  or  veal^  ; 
notched  and  floured,  put  a  quart  of  water.  Let 
it  stew  very  genlly  for  an  hour,  i.  e.  till  the  good-  ; 
ncss  is  extracted  from  the  meat,  w  khout  drawing  '. 
it  to  the  dregs  :  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before^  i 
it  is  done,  put  to  it  a  piece  of  crust  of  bread,  and  i 
a  bit  of  lemon  peel.  When  done,  strain  it  care-  ' 
fully,  skim  off  the  fat,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  ' 
thickening,  IN o.  2.  to  it.  Season  with  black  pep-  : 
per  and  salt,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  ; 

^*^  An  onion,  or  some  sweet  herbs y  may  he  added,  , 

To  make  Marimde.     {Ko.  363.) 

To  a  pint  of  beef  gravy  add  a  wineglass  of  ' 
vinegar,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  teaspoon ful  of  j 
ground  black  pepper,  four  cloves  bruised,  an  ^ 
onion  sliced,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  some  salt;  let 
these  simmer  together  for  half  an  hour,  and  strain-  '? 
through  a  fine  sieve. 

qIjs. —  This  is  called  marinade;  and  when  any  ^ 
thing  is  soaked  for  three  or  four  hours  in  such  a.  ' 
mixtare;  it  is  said  to  be  marinated. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 


Bechamel  Sauce.      (No.  3G4.) 

Cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean  Lam  and  a 
pound  of  veal  into  small  dice,  put  it  into  a  two 
quart  stewpan,  with  three  ounces  of  butter,  two 
small  young  onions  tied  up  with  a  sprig  of  pars- 
ley and  a  couple  of  cloves,  (and  lialf  a  dozen 
mushrooms  if  you  hav^e  them,)  set  the  stewpan 
over  a  clear  slow  stove  to  reduce  ;  stir  up  the  in  • 
gredients  with  a  wooden  spoon,  but  take  care  it 
does  not  catch  colour,  shake  in  two  tablespoonsful 
of  fine  sifted  flour,  and  turn  it  about  and  incorporate 
it  with  the  sauce  ;  when  it  is  well  mixed^  moisten 
it  by  degrees  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk, 
taking  care  to  keep  your  stewpan  moving,  that  the 
ingredients  may  not  catch  ;  let  it  bod  over  a  brisk 
lire  for  an  hour;  if  it  gets  too  thick,  add  some 
more  milk.  Do  not  put  in  any  salt,  as  the  ham 
will  make  it  salt  enough  ;  strain  throngli  atammis. 
In  fact,  if  common  veal  broth  be  boiled,  scum- 
med, thickened  with  flour  and  butter,  and  thinned 
again  with  some  more  veal  broth,  boiled  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  longer,  till  it  is  reduced  to  the  same  quan- 
tity it  was  before  you  added  the  veal  broth,  passed 
through  a  fine  sieve,  ortammis,  and  have  a  sufti- 
cient  quantity  of  cream  to  make  it  white,  and  just 
simmered  together  for  five  minutes,  (but  not  suf- 
fered to  boil;)  you  will  hav^e  a  genuine  Bechamel. 

Obs. — Bechamel  implies  a  thick  white  sauce, 
approacliing  to  a  batter,  and  takes  its  name  from 
a  wealthy  French  marquess,  maitre  d^hotel  de 
Louis  XI F,  and  firaous  for  his  patronage  of 
les  officiers  de  bouche,  who  have  im^iortal- 
ized  him  by  calling  by  his  Li^mc  this  delicate 
£1  5 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

composition.  Most  of  the  French  sauces  take 
their  name  from  the  person  ^vhose  palate  they 
first  pleased,  as  "  a  la  Ma'mtenon ,'*  or  from  some 
famous  cook  who  invented  them,  as  "  Sauce  Ro- 
bart;'  "  a  la  Montizeur;'  &c.  By  my  ZEST, 
Nos.  255  and  386,  I  also  put  in  my  claim  to  im- 
mortality of  fame. 

Poiv7^ade  Sauce,      (No.  365.) 

Mince  fine  a  small  onion,  put  it  into  a  quart 
stevvpan,  with  a  little  butter,  and  a  shallot 
shred  fine,  or  a  very  little  bit  of  garlick,  cloves, 
sweet  herbs,  and  basil,  if  you  like  their  flavour ; 
when  it  has  fried  a  few  minutes,  add  half  a  pint 
of  beef  or  veal  gravy,  or  warm  water,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vhiegar ;  skim  it  and  strain  it  well ; 
thicken  it  with  a  little  flour  and  butter,  and  squeeze 
in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Obs. — This  sauce  is  very  much  used  among 
foreigners:  whoever  has  looked  into  any  of  their 
books  of  cookery,  will  remember  they  order  many 
of  their  dishes  to  be  sent  up  with '' poivrade  ;" 
by  which  may  generally  be  understood,  a  sauce, 
in  the  compositwn  of  which,  pepper  and  vinegar 
are  predominant.  ' 

Poivrade  Sauce  cold.      (No.  366.) 

Behead  and  bone  two  anchovies,  pound  them 
in  a  marble  mortar,  with  two  tablespoonsful  of 
salad  oil,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 
some  parsley  leaves,  and  a  shallot  minced  fine  ; 
when  well  mixed,  add  vinegar  to  your  taste,  and 
pass  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  season  it  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

Obs.  —  A  very  good  sauce  for  cold  meat. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 


Sauce  Tournke.      (No.  36?.) 

Have  ready  a  pint  of  beef  or  veal  broth  in  a 
quart  stewpan  ;  put  into  another  stewpan  an  ounce 
of  butter;  when  it  is  melted,  shake  in  as  much 
flour  as  will  make  it  a  stiff  paste  ;  stir  till  it  is 
well  mixed,  but  be  careful  not  io  let  it  catch' 
colour  :  mix  this  with  the  broth,  and  s(ir  till  it  is 
smooth  ;  season  it  with  a  small  bundle  of  joung 
onions  and  parsley,  six  berries  of  allspice, 
and  six  mushrooms  if  you  have  them ;  cover 
your  stewpan  closely,  and  set  it  on  the  corner  of 
the  stove  to  simmer  gently  for  an  hour,  and 
strain  your  sauce  through  a  tammis. 

Sauce  Veloute.      (No.  368.) 

Pour  four  tablespoonsful  of  sauce  tournee  info  a 
pint  stewpan  ;  wlien  the  sauce  is  hot,  put  in  two 
tablespoonsful  of  good  thick  cream  ;  season  with 
a  little  salt ;  strain  through  a  tammis,  and  send  it 
up  hot. 

Ohs,  — This  is  also  from  the  French  kitchen, 
and  is,  in  fact,  only  a  richer  preparation  of  sauce 
tournee. 

Mustard  in  a  Minute.    (No.  369.) 

Mix  very  gradually  together,  in  a  marble  or 
wedgewood  mortar,  an  ounce  of  flour  of  mustard, 
with  three  tablespoonsful  of  milk,  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  the  same  of  sugar. 

Ohs,  —  Mustard  made  in  this  manner  is  not  at 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 

all  bitter,  and  may  therefore  be  instantly  brought 
to  table. 

Mustard  to  make,     (No.  370.) 

Mix  by  degrees,  by  rubbing  together  in  a 
mortar,  the  best  Durham  flour  of  mustard  with 
cold  water  in  which  scraped  horseradish  has  been 
boiled,  rub  it  well  together  till  it  is  quite  smooth  : 
keep  it  in  a  stone  jar,  closely  stopped  :  only  put 
as  much  into  the  mustard  pot  as  will  be  usetl  in 
ci  day  or  two.  The  ready  made  keeping  mustard,, 
that  is  prepared  at  the  oil  shops,  is  mixed  with 
one  fourth  part  salt :  this  is  useful  to  preserve  it, 
if  it  is  to  be  kept  long;  otherwise,  by  all  means 
omit  it.  The  best  way  of  eating  salt  is  ia 
substance. 

%*  See  also  Recipe,  No.  427. 

Obs. — Some  opulent  epicures  mix  their  mustard 
with  sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  or  distilled  vinegar, 
instead  of  horseradish  water. 

The  French  flavour  their  mustard  with  Cham- 
paigne,  and  other  wines,  capers,  anchovies,  tar- 
ragon or  elder  vinegar,  garlick,  shallot,  celery,: 
and  fine  herbs,  truffles,  &c.  &c. 

Salt.     (No.  371.) 

Common  sail  is  more  relishing  than  basket  salt ; 
it  should  be  prepared  for  the  table  by  drying  iii; 
in  a  plate  before  the  fire,  and  then  putting  it  on 
clean  paper  ;  roll  it  with  a  rolling  pin  ;  or,  what  is 
still  better,  pound  it  in  a  mortar  till  it  is  quite 
fine,  it  zoill  look  as  well  as  basket  salt. 

%♦  Select  for  table  use,  the  lumps  of  salt. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  ScC. 


Salad  Sauce,     (No.  372.) 


Boil  a  couple  of  eggs  for  ten  minutes,  put  tlieiw  ; 
into  a  basin  of  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  as  the  j 
yolks  must  be  quite  hard  and  cold,  or  they  will  ^ 
not  incorporate  well  with  the  oil.  Rub  them  i 
through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  mix  \ 
them  with  a  teaspoonfnl  of  water,  the  same  quantity  i 
of  made  mustard,  and  four  tablespoonsful  of  vine-  ! 
gar;  when  well  mixed  together,  add  three  table-  ; 
spoonsful  of  oil,  and  rub  it  with  the  other  ingredi- 
ents till  thoroughly  incorporated  with  tliem  ;  cut  up  : 
the  white  of  the  egg  and  garnish  the  top  of  the  salad  j 
with  it.  Let  the  sauce  remain  at  the  bottom  of  the  j 
salad  bowl,  and  do  not  stir  up  with  the  salad  till  it  i 
is  to  be  eaten.  '■ 

Obs. — This  mixture  is  sometimes  made  with: 
cream  instead  of  oil,  and  flavoured  with  basil,  • 
tarragon,  or  elder  vinegar,  essence  of  celery,  ■ 
lemon  pickle,  or  an  anchovy  :  of  these  we  prefer; 
the  basil  vinegar,  see  No.  397.  | 

j 

FORCEMEAT  STUFFINGS.  (No.  573.)! 

j 
Forcemeat  is  now  considered  an  indispensable 
accompaniment  to  most  made  dishes,  and  when  \ 
composed  with  good  taste,  gives  additional  spirit  j 
and  relish  to  even  that  "  essence  of  savouriness,"^: 
turtle  soup.  It  is  also  sent  up  in  patties,  and  for  ! 
stuffing  of  veal,  game,  poultry,  &c.  The  ingredi-^ 
ents  should  be  so  proportioned  that  no  one  flavour, 
predominates,  and  instead  of  giving  the  same] 
stuffing  for  veal,  for  hare,  &c.j  with  a  little  con-^ 

i 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES;  &CV 


Veal  Stuffing.     (No.  374.) 

Mince  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  (beef 
marrow  is  better,)  the  same  weii^lit  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  drachm  of  parsley,  a  drachm  and  a 
half  of  sweet  marjoram,  or  winter  savory,  or 
lemon-thyme,  and  a  roll  of  lemon  peel  chopped 
as  fine  as  possible,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  pepper 
and  salt  ;  mix  thoroughly  together  with  the  yolk 
and  white  of  an  c^^^  and  secure  it  in  the  veal  with 
a  skewer,  or  sew  it  in  with  a  bit  of  twine. 

Make  up  some  of  it  into  balls,  and  send  up  in  a 
side  dish. 

Ohs. — Good  stuffing  has  always  been  considered 
a  chef'crceinie  in  cookery,  and  has  given  ins- 
mortality  to  one  artist. 

"  Poor  Roger  Fowler  bad  a  generous  mind", 
Nor  would  submit  to  bave  bis  band  confm'd. 
But  aimed  at  all,  yet  never  could  excel 
la  any  thing  but  stuffing  of  bis  veal." 

King's  <^r^  of  Cookery,  p.  11S» 

Feal  Forcemeat,      (No.  375.) 

Two  ounces  of  undressed  lean  veal,  after  you 
have  scraped  it  quite  fine,  nm\  free  from  skin  and 
sinews,  the  same  quantity  of  beef  or  veal  suet,  the 
same  of  bread  crumbs,  chop  fine  three  drachms  of 
paisley,  one  of  lemon-peel,  one  of  sweet  herbs 
chopped  hne,  or  in  powder,  and  one  of  onion 
minced  small,  and  haif  a  drachm  of  allspice,  same  of 
cloves,  beaten  to  fine  powder  ;  pound  all  together 
in  a  mortar,  and  breaJk  into  it  the  yolk  aad  white 


SAUCES,   GRAVIES,  &C. 

of  au  egg ;  rub  it  all  up  well  together,  and  sea- 
j^ori  it  wilh  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 

For  the  above,  the  Editor  is  indebted  io 
M.  Birch,  Cook  to  Dr.  Kitchiner. 

Ois, — This  is  sometimes  made  more  savoury  by 
the  addition  of  anchovies  and  Cayenne  pepper. 

Stuffiyigfor  Roast  Turliey,  Capon,  or  Fowls. 
(No.  370.) 

Chop  fine  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  or  veal 
suet,  the  same  quantity  of  tine  bread  crumbs,  half 
an  ounce  of  fat  ham  or  bacon,  half  a  drachm  of 
lemon  thyme,  same  of  parsley,  a  drachm  of  lemon- 
peel  chopped  fine,  or  grated,  a  small  shallot,  a 
little  grated  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt  to  palate  : 
mix  thoroughly  together  with  the  yolk  and  white 
of  an  egg  to  bind  it. 

Stuffing  for  Boiled  Turkey,     (No.  S77.) 

Either  take  the  above  composition  for  the  roast 
turkey,  or  add  the  sotY  part  of  a  dozen  oysters  to 
it,  and  an  anchovy  if  you  like  it  still  more 
relishing. 

Pork  sausage  meat  is  used  also  for  turkies  and 
fowls. 


Goose  or  Duck  Stuffing,     (No.  378.) 

Chop  fine  two  large  onions,  and  a  handful  of 
green  sage,  (both  unboiled,)  a  little  pepper  and 
^alt ;   some  add  to  this  a  minced  apple. 

For  another,  see  Roast  Goose,  and  Duck. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

Stuffing  for  Hare,      (No.  379.) 

Two  ounces  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  lliree 
ounces  of  fine  bread  crumbs^  parsley  a  draclim, 
shallot  half  a  drachm,  or  a  small  anchovy,  a 
drachm  of  marjoram  or  lemon-thyme,  or  winter- 
savory,  half  a  drachm  of  grated  lemon-peel,  half 
a  drachm  of  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  mix  with 
the  white  and  yolk  of  an  egg,  put  it  in  the  hare, 
and  sew  it  up. 

***  //■  the  liver   is  quife  sound,  you   may  add  that  to 
the  above. 

Forcemeat  Balls  for  Turtle,  Mock  TurtLe, 
or  Made  Dishes.     (No.  380.) 

Take  a  large  breakfastcupful  of  bread  crumbs, 
rubbed  through  a  cullender,  put  them  into  a  pint 
stewpan  with  a  tablespoonfulof  the  soup,  as  much 
parsley  chopped  fine,  and  stir  them  over  till  it  is 
quite  a  hard  paste;  mix  with  the  yolk  of  an  efi:g  ; 
take  it  out  of  the  stewpan,  and  put  it  on  a  plate 
to  get  cold  :  mince  very  fine  an  ounce  of  suet,  half 
a  dozen  leaves  of  common  or  lemon-thyme,  the  same 
of  savory,  and  the  like  number  of  little  nobs  or  knots 
of  sweet  marjoram;  beat  them  together  in  a  mor- 
tar, and  season  them  with  as  much  pepper  as  will 
lay  on  a  sixpence,  and  the  same  quantity  of  nut- 
meg and  salt ;  roll  up  a  ball  as  big  as  a  nutmeg, 
and  try  it  in  a  little  boiling  water  ;  if  it  is  too  light, 
add  to  it  another  Qs:^^  and  a  little  more  flour,  and 
mix  it  well  together  again. 

Roll  your  forcemeat  into  a  sausage  about  as  big 
as  your  ring  finger,  and  divide  it  into  equal  por- 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

tions  of  about  half  an  inch  long",  round  these  into 
little  balls,  and  if  you  wish  them  a  lighter  colour, 
throw  tliem  into  boiling  water  for  a  couple  of 
minutes ;  take  them  out  with  a  fish  slice,  and 
lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve  to  dry.  If  you  like  them 
brown,  fry  them, 
%*  From  E,  Stevensox,  Cook  to  Sir  Simon  Clauk,  Bart. 

Or, 

Pound  some  veal  in  a  marble  mortar,  rub  it 
through  a  sieve  with  as  much  of  the  udder  as  you 
have  veal,  or  about  a  third  as  much  butter;  put 
some  bread  crumbs  into  a  stevvpan,  with  milk 
enough  to  wet  it,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and 
shallot,  rub  them  well  together  till  they  form  a 
paste;  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  when  cold, 
pound  and  mix  them  all  together,  with  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs  boiled  hard  ;  season  it  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  curry  powder,  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  two  raw 
eggs,  rub  it  well  together,  and  make  small  balls  : 
ten  minutes  before  your  soup  is  ready  put  them 
in. 

***  -Sj/  ^^'^  French  artist  who  wrote  the  receipt  to  dress  a 
Turtle,  Sj-c.     See  No.  250. 

Egg  Balls,      (No.  381.) 

Boil  four  eggs  for  ten  minutes,  and  put  them 
into  cold  water,  put  the  yolks  into  a  mortar  with 
the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  and  as  much  salt  as  will 
lay  on  a  shilling,  and  a  little  pepper,  rub  well 
together,  roll  them  into  small  balls,  (as  they  swell 
in  boiling,)  and  boil  them  a  couple  of  minutes. 

Curri/  Balls.     (No.  382.) 
The  yolk  of  an  egg  boiled  hard,  and  a  bit  of 


*Arcz5    :?.at:i5.  .s:c. 

i  :  a?  m  ihe  iasi  rec    ; 

Suu^kcrb  PaxitT  L  Xo.  3o3.) 

See  No.  4^. 

S^emry  Pmrder  BiilU.   (Xo.  3S4.) 
Sec  Xo.  465- 

Scup-hcrb  and  Sircc^dry  Fozrdcr  Bailie 

^Xo.  5 So.) 
Sec  No.  468. 

Ztj/  J5fliZf.      (No.  386.) 
See  No.  £55.     Are  all  made  ia  the  same  waj» 

Orange  &r  Lemon-Fed^  to  nix  with  Stuffings 
(Xo.  5«7.) 

Peel  a  SeriOe  oran^  or  lemoB  Terr  IhiD,  takii^ 
oiF  orV  *^  ^"^  jcflow  riod,  wilJhoat  sbj  o^ 
ibe  v^  :sd  it  in  a  marl^  mortar,  a^ld  to  it 

a  iT>      :  pwoiidcdlagripsi^aj,  and  mbit  veil 

wnb  iW  peel,  by  d^rc^s  add  a  little  of  the  mix- 
ta rr,  3n*I  irfcesi  ft  is  ffcH  grooad  and  bfeod^  will* 
tbtF,  take  i!  col  of  the  mortar,  and  mix  it  wiih  the 
whole '.  tY  :  o^ber  iray  of  incorporating  it 

so  well-  z^^vsKsAs^  &:c.  are  spoiled  bj 

the  wu^^'^  i^MjLiikg  of  the  io^rediefltf. 

Mock  Cream.    (Xo.  388.) 
Mixfaalf  atablc^iooiifiDlof  floor  with  a  qiuri 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

of  new  milk;  let  it  simmer  five  minutes,  (o  take 
off  the  rawae&s  of  the  flo«r:  then  beat  op  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  stir  it  into  the  milk  while  boiling, 
and  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve. 

Raspberry  Vinegar,     (No.  5^69^ 

Put  your  raspberries  into  a  stone  jar,  tie  ihevet 
down,  and  set  them  in  a  slack  oven  for  four  hours ; 
press  out  the  juice,  and  add  to  each  quart  three 
pounds  of  tiae  loaf  sugar;  boil  and  skim  till  it 
comes  to  a  syrup.  Boil  a  drachm  of  bruised  co- 
chineal in  a  piut  of  white  wine  vinegar  for  fifteen 
minutes  ;  when  cold,  add  to  it  the  quart  of  syrup, 
a  quart  of  cold  vinegar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
rectified  spirit  of  wine. 

Raspberry  Vinegar,  another  way.  (No.  390.) 

Take  fine  fresh  gathered  red  raspberries  well 
picked  :  put  them  into  a  wooden  or  china  bowl, 
wiih  as  much  good  distilled  wine  vinegar  as  will 
covej-  them :  bruise  and  stir  them  frequently  for 
four  days  ;  strain  them  ;  and  to  every  pint  of  the 
liquor  add  a  pound  of  lump  sugar  :  boil  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises ; 
add  to  each  pint  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  bottle  it : 
when  used,  it  may  be  mixed  in  about  eight  parts 
of  water,  and  is  a  most  excellent  cooling  beverage 
to  assuage  thirst  in  fevers  and  colds,  &c.,  and  ii 
agreeable  to  most  palates. 


5A1CES.  GRAVIES,  \'C. 


Sj/ruj)  Of  Lemons.    (Ko.  391.)  •  " 

A  pint  of  fresh  lemon  juice,  a  pound  and  aj 
half  of  lurap  sugar ;  dissolve  i(  in  a  gentle  heat, 
scum  it,  and  add  an  ounce  of  ihin  cut  lemon-peel  ;| 
let  tbem  all  simmer  together  for  a  few  minutes. j 
When  cold,  bottle  it  and  cork  it  closely,  and  keep: 
it  in  a  cool  place. 

Or,  \ 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  crystallized  lemou-acid! 
in  a  pint  of  clarified  syrup.  ^ 

Orange  Syrup,  for  Puddings.     (Xo.  392.)  '■ 

Squeeze  the  oranges,  and  strain  the  juice  from 
X]\e  pulp  into  a  large  pot,  and  boil  it  up,  ^vith  a 
pound  of  fine  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice  ;  skim  it 
■well :  let  it  stand  till  cold,  and  then  bottle  it,  and 
cork  it  well. 

Syi^up  of  Orange  or  Lemon  Peel  (No.  39^3.) 

Fresh  outer  rind  of  Seville  orange  or  lemon-peel, 
three  ounces,  apothecaries'  weight :  boiling  water, 
a  pint  and  a  half:  infuse  thera  for  a  night  in  a  close 
vessel ;  then  strain  the  liquor;  let  it  stand  to  settle; 
and  having  poured  it  ofi' clear  from  the  sediment, 
dissolve  in  it  two  pounds  of  double  refined  and 
finely  pounded  loaf  sugar,  and  make  it  into  a 
syrup  with  a  gentle  heat"]! 

Ohs.  —  In  making  this  syrup,  the  sugar  must 
be  dissolved  in  the  infusion  with  as  gentle  a  heat 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

as  possible,  to  prevent  the  exhalation  of  the  vola- 
tile parts  of  the  peel.  This  syrup  possesses  a 
great  share  of  the  fine  flavour  of  the  orange,  or 
lemon-peel. 

Syrup  of  Nutmegs.     (No.  39-i.) 

Nutmegs  grated,  two  ounces  ;  boiling  water,  a 
pint ;  digest  in  a  close  vessel  for  twenty-four 
hours  ;  strain,  and  add  to  it  a  pound  of  double  re- 
fined and  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  an  eg^  beat  up 
with  a  little  cold  water :  boil  up  together,  skim  it 
perfectly  clean,  and  reduce  it  to  a  syrup  :  when 
cold,  add  a  quarter  pint  of  brandy  to  it. 

Obs, — This  syrup  is  strongly  impregnated 
with  the  nutmeg,  and  is  b.  most  agreeable  and  con- 
venient ingredient  in  puddings,  &c.,  and  all 
sweet  dishes  in  which  nutmegs  are  used.  Cloves, 
cinnamon,  and  mace,  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  manner. 

Syrup  of  Vinegar.    (No.  S95^ 

Let  two  pints  and  a  half  of  the  best  distilled 
wine  vinegar  be  boiled  with  three  pounds  and  a 
half  of  lump  sugar,  till  a  syrup  is  formed:  this 
solution  is  a  very  pleasant  and  cheap  substitute 
for  the  syrup  of  lemons. 

The  juice  of  mulberries,  raspberries,  and  black 
currants,  may  be  incorporated  with  syrup  in  a 
similar  way ;  and  are  cooling,  pleasant  drinks, 
which  may  be  advantageously  employed  for  miti* 
gating  thirst  in  bilious  and  inflammiitory  disorders. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C.  I 

Tarragon  Vinegar    (No.  396.)  ' 

Is  a  very  asrreeable  addition  to  soup  and  salad 
sauce,  and  is  thus  made.  Put  a  quarter  pound  of 
fresh  gathered  tarragon  leaves  (which  should  be; 
gathered  just  before  it  flowers.)  into  a  jar,  with, 
a  quart  of  the  best  distilled  wine  vinegar,  for  thcj 
space  of  fourteen  days,  in  a  warm  situation,  wheit' 
it  should  be  strained  through  a  flannel  bag:  add' 
a  drachm  of  isinglass,  and  put  it  into  a  dryi 
jar;  let  it  stand  four-and-twenty  hours,  till  it  i^ 
fine ;  jX)ur  it  into  half  pint  bottles ;  cork  themj 
carefully,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place.  •; 

Ohs. —  You  may  prepare  elder-flower  and^ 
other  vinegars  in  the  same  manner:  elder  audi 
tarragon  are  those  in  most  general  use  in  this] 
country.  Our  neighbours,  the  French,  prepare; 
vinegars  flavoured  with  celery,  cucumbers,^ 
capsicums,  garlick,  onion,  capers,  burnet,  truflles, 
Seville  orange-peel,  ginger ;  in  short,  they  make 
them  of  almost  every  herb,  fruit,  flower  and  spice  j 
separately,  and  in  innumerable  combinations.         ! 

J 

Basil  Vinegar,    (No.  ^i:)  \ 

Steep  an  ounce  of  dried  and  sifted  sweet  basil  | 
in  a  pint  of  the  best  white  wine  vinegar  for  four-! 
teen  days.  \ 

Ohs,  —  This  is  a  very  agreeable  addition  to  \ 
many  sauces,  soups,  and  made  dishes ;  and  the  i 
mixture  usually  made  for  salads.  i 

It  is  the  basis  of  the  <*  salad  sauce"  sold  in  the  ! 
oil  shops,  I 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 


Mint  Vinegar,     (No.  398.) 

This  is  made  precisely  in  the  same  manner, 
and  with  the  same  proportions,  as  the  preceding 
receipt.     It  is  a  favourite  relish  with  lamb. 

Essence  of  Vinegar,     (No.  599-) 

During  the  intense  frosts  of  winter  put  some 
vinegar  into  shallow  dishes,  and  the  watery  parts 
will  be  converted  into  ice  ;  but  the  spirituous,  or 
acetous  basis,  remains  in  a  fluid  state  ;  so  that  by 
repeating  this  process,  one  pint  of  strong  vinegar 
may,  in  very  cold  seasons,  be  reduced  to  a  few 
tablespoonsful  of  the  essence. 

Garlick  Vinegar,    (No.  400.) 

Chop  two  ounces  of  garlick  very  fine,  put 
them  into  a  quart  of  boiling  hot  white  wine  vine- 
gar, stop  the  jar  \ery  close,  and  let  it  steep  ten. 
days,  shaking  it  well  every  day;  then  pour  off 
the  clear  liquor  into  small  bottles. 

0^5. —  The  cook  must  be  careful  not  to  use 
too  much  of  this  :  a  few  drops  of  it  will  impreg- 
nate a  pint  of  gravy  with  a  sufficient  taste  of  the 
garlick;  the  flavour  of  which,  when  slight  and 
well  blended,  is  one  of  the  finest  ingredients  we 
have;  when  used  in  excess,  the  most  offen- 
sive :  the  best  way  to  use  garlick,  is  to  send  up 
some  of  this  vinegar  in  a  cruet,  and  let  the  com" 
pany  flavour  their  own  sauce  as  they  lii^e. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 


,     Eshallot  Vinegar    (No.  401.)  \ 

Is  made  in  the  same  manner,  and  the  cools 
should  never  be  without  it ;  it  costs  scarcely  ?iny 
thing,  and  will  save  her  an  immense  deal  of  trou- 
ble in  flavouring  all  soups  and  sauces  that  she 
wishes  to  s\\Q  a  taste  of  onion. 


Eshallot  TV'me.     (No.  402.) 

Infuse  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  eshallots,  minced 
fine,  in  a  pint  of  port  wine  for  ten  days. 

0^5.  —  This  is  rather  the  most  expensive,  bui 
infiniteli/  the  most  elegant  preparation  of  eshallot 
and  gives  the  onion  flavour  to  soups  and  sauce; 
inore  agreeably  than  any  other  way  :  it  also  doej 
not  at  all  leave  an  unpleasant  taste  in  the  raoutli 
and  to  the  breath,  which  all  the  other  prepara 
tions  of  garlick,  onion,  &c.  do. 

Camp  Vmega7\     (No.  403.)  ■ 

Cayenne  pepper,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce. 

Cochineal,  half  a  drachm. 

Soy,   two  tablespoonsful.  ' 

Walnut  catsup,  ditto. 

Two  anchovies  chopped.  ' 

A  small  clove  of  garlick  minced  fine. 
Steep  all  for  a  month  in  a  pint  of  best  vinegar, 
frequently  shaking  the  bottle  :   strain  through   ii 
tammis,  and  keep  it  in  small  bottles  corked  as  well 
as  possible. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 


Brochard  Sauce,  for  Cold  Meat,    (No.  404.) 

Six  shallots,  minced  fine. 
Two  tablespoonsful  of  made  mustard. 
Six  anchovies  pounded. 
Haifa  pint  of  vinegar. 
Four  tablespoonsful  of  sweet  oil. 
Two  teaspoonsful  of  ground  black  pepper. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Bottle  it. 

Essence  of  Cayenne.     (No.  405.) 

Put  an  ounce  of  Cayenne  pepper  into  half  a 
pint  of  strong  proof  spirit ;  let  it  steep  for  a  fort- 
night, and  then  pour  off  the  clear  liquor. 

This  is  nearli/  equal  to  fresh  Chili  juice. 

Obs,  —  A  few  drops  will  be  found  extremely 
convenient  for  the  extempore  seasoning  and  finish- 
ing of  soup,  sauces,  &c.,  its  flavour  being  instantly 
and  equally  difi'used. 

Prepared  Lemon  Juice.     (No.  406.) 

Tn  the  following  manner  you  may  prepare  and 
preserve  the  juice  of  lemons,  limes,  or  oranges, 
for  punch,  lemonade,  iced  creams,  &c. 

Pare  very  thin,  or  rasp  off  the  outside  rinds  of 
the  fruit  with  a  bread  grater,  till  you  have  got 
about  a  quarter  pint  of  them ;  put  tliem  into  a 
wide  mouthed  bottle,  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  good 
brandy,  and  set  the  bottle  in  a  warm  situation  for 
three  days,  frequently  shaking  it  up.  Then 
squeeze  as  m«ch  fruit  as  will  yield  a  quart  of 
k2 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C.  i 

juice :  let  it  settle,  and  run  it  through  a  flannel  | 
bag  :  squeeze  the  brandy  from  the  rinds,  and  add  l 
it  to  the  juice  of  the  fruits  ;  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  : 
well. 

Obs.  —  This  will  keep  for  years,  and  improve  ; 
in  flavour;  and  make  the  finest  punch,  &c.,  by  . 
only  adding  sugar,  spirits,  water,  &c.  to  the  . 
palate. 

Essence  of  Lemo7i-PeeL    (No.  407.)         ' 

Wash  and  clean  the  lemons;  let  them  get  per-  ■ 
fectly  dry ;  take  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar,  and  rub  J 
them  till  all  the  yellow  rind  is  taken  up  by  the 
sugar ;  scrape  off  the  surface  of  the  sugar  into  a  i 
preserving  pot,  and  press  it  hard  down ;  cover  it  , 
very  close,  and  it  will  keep  for  twelve  months,  i 
In  the  same  way  you  may  get  the  essence  of  i 
Seville  orange-peel.  I 

Ohs. — This  method  of  procuring  and  pre-  ' 
serving  the  flavour  of  lemon-peel  is  far  superior  \ 
to  the  common  practice  of  paring  off  the  rind,  or 
grating  it,  and  pounding  or  mixing  that  v/ith  i 
sugar:  in  this  process,  you  obtain  the  whole  of| 
the  fine,  fragrant,  essential  oil,  in  which  is  con-  ] 
tained  the  flavour.  \ 

Quint-Essence  of  Lemon  Peel,     (No.  408.)  , 

Best  oil  of  lemon,  one  drachm. 

Strongest  spirit  of  wine,  two  ounces,  ' 

such  as  will  burn  dry  in  a  silver  spoon,  intro- 
duced by  degrees,  till  the  spirit  kills  or  over- 
powers, and  completely  mixes  with  the  oil.     This 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C.  ! 

is  a  most  elegant  and  useful  preparation,  posses- 
sing all  the  delightful  fragrance  and  flavour  of  the    j 
freshest  lemon-peel. 

Obs.  —  A  few  drops  on  the  sugar  you  make 
punch  v/ith,  will  instantly  impregnate  it  with  a     ; 
much  finer   flavour   than   the    troublesome    and 
tedious  method  of  grating  the  rind,  or  rubbing  the 
sugar  on  it.     It  will  be  found  a  superlative  sub' 
stltute  for  fresh  lemon-peel^  for  every  purpose    \ 
that  it  is  used  for  ;  blanc  mange,  jellies,  custards, 
ice,  negus,  lemonade,  and  pies,  puddings,  stuf-     ' 
flngs,  soups,  sauces,  and  ragouts,  to  which  it  im- 
mediately gives  a  most  delicious  zest,  i 

Spirit  of  Celerij.     (No.  409.)  ; 

Strong  spirit  of  wine,  two  ounces.  ; 

Celery  seed,  three  drachms.  .' 

Let  it  steep  for  a  fortnight :  set  the  bottle,  for  the  , 

f.rst  two  or  three  days,   where  it  will  receive  a  ; 

heat  of  one  hundred  degrees,  Fahrenheit's  ther-  : 

momeier.  j 

Obs.  ■ —  A  few    drops    mil  fiarour   a  pint    of  ^ 
broth    and   are  an   excellent '  addition   to   pease 

and  other  soups,  and  the  salad  mixture  of  oil,  \ 

vinegar,  &c.  i 

Preserved  Juice  of  Fruits  without  Sugar. 
(No.  410.) 

Raspberries,  strawberries,  mulberries,  elderber- 
ries, black,  red,  and  white  currants.  When  full  ripe,    i 
gatherthem  perfectly  dry:  pickand  clean  them  from    ! 
stalks  and  leaves,  and  put  them  into  a  preserving-    ■ 
n3 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

pan  over  a  slow  charcoal  fire :  mash  them  to  a  pulp, 
and  turn  them  into  a  stone  pan ;  cover  down  with 
a  cloth  till  they  are  cool;  press  out  all  the  juice, 
and  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag;  and  to  each 
quart  add  a  quarter  pint  of  brandy,  or  half  that 
quantity  of  strong  spirits  of  wine  :  cork  down  in 
clean,  dry  bottles:  kept  in  a  good  cellar,  it  will  be 
good  for  two  years,  for  all  the  purposes  of  iced 
creams,  jellies,  and  cooling  beverage,  by  adding 
tlie  juice  of  lemons,  sugar,  &c.  &c. 

Essence  of  Ginger.     (No.  411.) 

Four  ounces  of  powdered  ginger  in  a  quart  of 
rectUied  spirit,  apothecaries'  measure  :  let  it  stand 
for  ten  days,  shaking  it  up  each  day. 

Ohs. — This  would  be  more  properly  called 
"  tincture  of  ginger  :"  however,  as  it  has  obtained 
the  name  of  "  essence,"  so  let  it  be  called. 

Essence  of  A  lisp  ice.     (No.  4 1 2 . ) 

Oil  of  pimento,  half  a  drachm,  apothecaries' 
measure. 

Strong  spirit  of  wine,  two  ounces, 
mixed  by  degrees :  a  few  drops  will  give  the  fla^ 
vour  of  allspice  to  a  pint  of  gravy. 

Ti7icture  of  Allspice.     (No.  413.) 

Of  allspice  bruised,  three  ounces. 
Brandy,  a  quart,  apothecaries'  measure. 
Let  it  steep  a  fortnight,  occasionally  shaking  it 
up;  then  pour  off  the  clear  liquor :    it  is  a  7nost 
grateful  addition   in  all   cases  where  allspice  is 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

used,  for  maJdng  mulled  wine  extempore,  or  in 
gravies,  &c. 

Essence  of  Clove  and  Mace.     (No.  4 1 4,) 

Rectified  spirit  of  wine,  two  ounces,   apotheca- 
ries' measure. 
Oil  of  nutmeg,  or  clove,  or  mace^half  a  dracbm, 
apothecaries'  measure. 

Tincture  of  CIoijC,  (No.  415.) 

Cloves  bruised,  three  ounces. 

Rectified  spirit  of  wine,  two  pints,  apothecaries' 

measure. 
Let  it  steep  ten  days  :  strain  it  through  a  flannel 
sleeve. 

Essence  of  Cinnamon.     (No.  416.) 

Strongest  rectified  spirit  of  wine,  two  ounces. 
Oil  of  cinnamon,  one  drachm,   apothecaries* 
measure. 

Essence  of  Marjoram,     (No.  417.) 

Strong  rectified  spirit,  two  ounces. 
Oil  of  origanum,   one   drachm,   apothecaries' 
measure. 

Alum    Finings,  for   clarifying    Spirituous 

and  Okose    Cordials,    Compounds,    ^c, 

(No.  418.) 

Boil  a  drachm  of  alum  in  a  pint  of  water  till  it 
is  reduced  to  half  a  pint :    ten  drops,  made  as 

ij4j 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

warm  as  new  milk,  are  sufficient  for  a  quart  of 
liquor  :  shake  the  bottle  well  two  or  three  times  a 
day,  for  three  or  four  days,  carefully  giving  it 
vent  each  time. 

Spirit  of  Sweet-Herbs,  for  Broths ,  S^c. 
(No.  419.) 

Rectified  spirit  of  wine,  two  ounces. 

Oil  of  origanum,  a  drachm. 

Lemon-thyme, 

Sweet  marjoram,  and 

Winter-savory, 
dried  and  rubl>ed  through  a  sieve,  a  drachm  of 
each. 

Celery  seed,  and 

Minced  esliallots,  half  a  drachm  ;  all  the  above 
ingredients  apothecaries'  measure. 
JuQi  it  have  fourteen  days  to  digest. 

Soup  Herb  Spirit.     (No.  420.) 

Of  common   thyme, 

Lemon-thyme, 

Winter-savory, 

Sweet  marjoram, 

Fresh  lemon-peel, 

Sweet  basil,  each  three  drachms. 

Bay  leaves. 

Mint,  and 

Sage,  half  a  drachm  eacli. 

Celery  seed,  a  quarter  drachm  ;   all  the  above 

avoirdupoise  weight. 
To  be  dried  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and 
infused  in  a  pint  and  a  quarter   of  brandy   or 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

proof  spirit  for  ten  clays;  this  may  also  be  infused 
in  v/ine  or  vinegar  ;  but  neither  extract  the  flavour 
of  the  ingredients  half  so  well  as  the  spirit. 

Spirit  of  Savoury  Spice.     (No.  42 1 .) 

Black  pepper  and  allspice  pounded  fine,  three 
quarters  of  an  ounce  each. 

Nutmeg  grated,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce. 
Infuse  in  a  pint  and  a  quarter  of  proof  spirit  for 
ten  days. 

Soup'herbj   and  Savoury  Spice  Spirit. 
(No.  422.) 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  soup-herb  spirit  with  a  quar- 
ter pint  of  spirit  of  savoury  spice. 

Ohs.-^  These  preparations  are  most  invaluable 
auxiliaries  to  immediately  heighten  the  JlavouVy 
and  finish  soups,  sauces,  ragouts,  S^c.,  and  all 
made  dishes,  and  will  keep  for  twenty  years. 

Relish  for  Chops,  S^c.  (No.  423.) 

Pound  fine  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  same 
of  allspice,  an  ounce  of  salt;  mince  fine  half  an 
ounce  of  eshalloti;,  put  them  mto  a  pint  of  mush- 
room catsup,  set  the  bottle  for  twenty-four  hours 
where  it  will  receive  a  heat  of  about  ninety  de- 
grees of  Fahrenheit's  thermometer ;  let  it  steep  a 
week,  and  then  strain  it. 

Ohs.  —  A  teaspoonful  or  two  of  this  are  gene- 
rally a  very  acceptable  addition,  mixed  with  the 
gravy  usually  sent  up  for  chops  and  steaks ;  see 
No.  356. 

n5 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

Original  Receipt  for  QUIN'S  Sauce. 
(No.  424.) 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  strong  old  walnut  liquor. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  Gorgona  anchovies, 
A  quarter  of  an  ounce  each  of 

Mace, 

Cloves, 

And  fine  Jamaica  pepper. 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne. 

Twenty-four  esh allots. 

Half  an  ounce  of  garlick. 

Two  ounces  of  scraped  horseradish. 
To  be  boiled  together,  and  the  liquor   strained 
therefrom. 

Ohs.  —  The  above  is  copied  from  this  celebrated 
epicure's  original  receipt  now  lying  before  me, 
for  which  I  am  indebted  to  Wm.  Blachford, 
Esq.,  of  Gray's  Inn  :  its  authenticity  may  be  fully 
relied  on. 

%*  Tins  sauce   is  prepared.,   as   here  described,  by  Messrs. 
Ball,  81,  New  Bond  Street,  London. 

Fish  Sauce,     (No.  425.) 

Two  wineglasses  of  port,  and  two  of  walnut 
pickle;  double  that  quantity  of  mushroom  catsup; 
four  anchovies  pounded,  with  two  eshallots,  a 
tablespoonful  of  soy,  and  a  small  saltspoonful  of 
Cayenne  pepper  :  boil  all  together :  Avhen  cold, 
put  it  into  half  pint  bottles,  well  corked  and 
sealed  over;  it  will  keep  for  a  couple  of  years. 

Ohs.  —  This  is  commonly  called  Quints-Sauce, 
and  was  given  mc  by  a  very  sagacious  sauce- 
maker. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

Fish  Sauce,     (No.  426.) 

Take  six  anchovies,  two  esballots,  two  blades 
of  mace,  a  tablespoonful  of  scraped  horseradish, 
six  cloves,  six  berries  of  allspice,  half  a  pint  of 
white  wine,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water,  and 
the  rind  pared  thin,  and  the  juice  of  a  large 
lemon ;  boil  all  together  till  reduced  to  half  a 
pint,  strain  it,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  catsup, 
or  soy. 

Keeping  Mustard.     (No.  427.) 

Boil  three  ounces  of  salt  in  a  quart  of  water, 
and  pour  it  boiling  hot  upon  an  ounce  of  scraped 
horseradish  ;  cover  down  the  jar,  and  let  it  stand 
twenty-four  hours  :  strain  it,  and  mix  it  by  de- 
grees with  the  best  Durham  flour  of  mustard,  beat 
well  together  for  a  long  time  till  of  the  proper 
thickness  :  put  it  into  a  jar,  or  wide  mouthed 
bottle  stopped  closely :  it  will  keep  good  for 
months. 

Sour  Crout"^',     (No.  428.) 

Take  a  dozen  good  hard  white  cabbages,  trim 
and  divide  them  into  quarters,  take  out  all  the 
stalks  from  the  heart  of  the  cabbage,  cut  it  with 
a  knife  or  chaff-cutter  into  very  small  slips  Mix 
six   pounds  of  salt  with  four  ounces  of  juniper 


*  This  as  commonly  appears  on  the  table  in  Germany, 
as  potatoes  in  England,  and  takes  its  name  from  soeur,  salt, 
and  kraut,  cabbage,  which  has  been  corrupted  into  sour  cront. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  SCC. 

berries  and  an  ounce  of  carraway  seed ;  put  the 
cabbage  into  a  cask,  first  strewing  the  bottom  of  it 
with  some  of  tJie  mixture,  then  a  layer  of  cab- 
bage ;  take  care  that  the  bead  of  the  cask  fits  very 
closely;  cover  down,  and  lay  a  large  st<)ne  on  it. 
Set  the  cask  in  a  shed  or  outhouse  for  three 
months;  it  will  then  be  coming  ready  for  use. 
When  you  use  it.  take  off  the  stone  and  cover, 
scrape  aside  some  of  the  top,  take  out  what  you 
want,  and  replace  what  you  scraped  ofi*  the  top, 
and  cover  down  your  cask  closely  as  before.  Put 
the  Croat  into  a  stewpan  with  cold  water,  simmer 
it  for  half  an  hour,  drain  in  a  cullender ;  when 
done,  put  tlie  meat  you  intend  to  dress  into  the 
stewpan,  and  cover  it  over  with  the  crout;  put 
just  water  enough  to  stew  the  meat,  and  to  give 
gravy  to  serve  up  with  it:  when  you  dish  up,  put 
tiie  crout  and  gravy  first  into  the  dish,  and  lay  the 
meat  on  them. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  8cC. 


SAUCE  SUPERLATIVE.     (No,  429.) 

Port  wine  and  mushroom  catsup,  a  pint  of  each. 

Vinegar,  a  quarter  pint. 
Or,  what  is  better, 

Haifa  pint  of  walnut  or  other  pickle  liquor. 
But  to   make  sauce  most  superlative,  instead  of 
either  of  the  above, 

Six  drachms  avoirdupois  of  crystallized  acid  of 
lemon. 

Pounded  anchovy,  an  ounce. 

Dried  and  pounded  parsley,  an  ounce. 

Dried  winter-savory,  two  ounces. 

Fresh  lemon-peel  pared  xery  thiu^  an  ounce. 

Peeled  and  sliced  cshallots,  half  au  ounce. 

Allspice  and 

Black  pepper  powdered,  a  quarter  ounce  each. 

Ginger  and 

Mace  powdered,  two  drachms  each. 

Caj^enne,  a  drachm. 

Celery-seed  bruised,  a  drachm.  All  avoirdu- 
poise  zceig/if. 
Put  all  into  a  wide  mouth  bottle,  stop  it  close, 
shake  it  up  every  day  for  a  fortnight,  and  strain 
it,  (when  some  think  it  improved  by  the  addition 
of  a  quarter  pint  of  thick  browning,  see  No.  322, 
or  436,)  and  you  will  have  a  most  incomparably 
elegant  and  ''  delicious  double  relish  and 
SAUCE  SUPERLATIVE,"  extremely  acceptable  and 
refreshing  to  tlie  lingual  nerves. 

%f*  The  above  receipt  I  received  from  William  Kitch" 
iner,  M.  D.,  zvho  considers  this  composition  as  the  "  chef- 
d'oeuvre"  of  mani/  experiments  he  has  made,  for  the  pujyose 
(f  enabling  the  good  housezcives  of  Great  Britain  to  prepare 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

their  own  sauces  :  it  is  equally  agreeable  zvithfish,  poultry,  or 
ragouts  ;  and  as  a  fair  lady  may  make  it  herself ,  she  may  also 
be  certain  all  the  ingredients  are  stceet  and  zcholesome. 

0^5. —  Under  an  infinity  of  circumstances,  a 
cook  raaj'-bein  want  of  the  substances  necessary 
to  make  sauce ;  the  above  composition  of  proper 
proportions  of  the  several  articles  from  ^vhich  the 
various  gravies  derive  their  flavour,  will  be  found 
a  very  superlative  substitute  for  gravy  sauce,  by 
mixing  two  tablespoons  fill  with  half  a  pint  of 
melted  butter :  five  minutes  will  finish  a  boat  of 
very  relishing  sauce. 

3Iock  Anchovies.    (No.  430.) 

Take  half  a  peck  of  fresh  sprats,  do  not  wash 
them,  only  draw  them  at  the  gills,  and  put  them 
into  stone  jars  with  the  following  mixture.  Two 
pounds  of  common  salt,  a  pound  of  saltpetre, 
two  ounces  of  white  pepper,  and  the  same  quan- 
tity of  lump  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  lemon- 
peel,  and  four  or  five  bay-leaves  ;  pound  these  all 
■well  together ;  put  a  layer  of  this  at  the  bottom 
of  the  jar,  then  a  layer  of  sprats,  and  so  alter- 
nately till  the  jar  is  full ;  tie  them  down  close 
with  a  bladder,  and  keep  them  in  a  cold  dry 
place,  and  they  will  be  ready  for  use  in  six 
months  :  if  you  turn  the  jar  upside  down  twice  a 
week,  they  will  be  ready  in  half  that  time. 

Ohs, — Smelts  are  prepared  in  the  same 
manner. 

Essence  of  Mock  Anchovies,  (No.  43 1 .) 
When  ^the  preceeding  preparation  has  been 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

kept  a  year  or  more,  it  may  be  made  into  es- 
sence by  pounding  the  fish  in  a  marble  mortar 
till  they  are  quite  fine,  and  adding  to  them 
the  liquor  they  were  pickled  in ;  if  there  is  not 
sufficient  of  this,  to  make  it  thinner  you  may 
dilute  it  with  cold  spring  water  ;  when  well 
mixed,  strain  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  bottle  it 
for  use. 

3Iock  Essence  of  Ancho'cies.      (No.  432.) 

Boil  a  quart  of  stale  ale  for  a  quarter  of  au  hour, 
let  it  stand  till  it  is  cold  ;  take  five  Dutch  pickled 
herrings  with  their  liquor,  (take  off"  the  heads  and 
roes,)  mince  them  fine,  put  them  into  the  beer, 
with  a  stick  of  horseradish  scraped  fine;  let  it  boil 
twenty  minutes  ;  strain  it ;  hold  a  clean  fryingpan, 
over  the  fire'  that  it  may  be  quite  dry,  put 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour  in  it  ;  keep  stirring 
it  with  a  wooden  spoon,  till  it  is  the  colour  of 
essence  of  anchovies  ;  put  the  liquor  to  it,  and 
stir  it  together  till  it  boils ;  let  it  boil  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  ;  when  cold,  bottle  it ;  if  not  of  sufficient 
colour,  put  a  little  bole  armeniac  to  it. 

Obs,  — These  three  preparations  are  among  the 
best  of  the  imitations  of  anchovy,  and  are  fre- 
quently sold  for  it,  and  for  common  palates  may 
do  very  well ;  but  to  impart  to  artificial  anchovies 
the  delicious  flavour  of  the  Gorgona  fish,  so  as  to 
impose  upon  a  gourmand  of  good  taste,  we  fear 
will  still  remain  in  the  catalogue  of  the  sauce- 
maker's  desiderata. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  <ScC. 


ESSENCE  OF  ANCHOVY.  (No.  433.) 

The  goodness  of  (his  preparation  depends  almost 
entirely  on  having  fine  mellow  fish,  that  have 
been  in  pickle  long  enough  (i.  e.  about  twelve 
months)  io  dissolve  easily,  yet  are  not  at  all 
rusty.  It  has  been  said  that  some  shops  have  a 
trick  of  putting  anchovy  liquor  on  pickled  sprats  : 
you  will  easily  discover  this  by  washing  o.'ie  of 
thera,  and  tasting  the  flesh  of  it,  which  in  the 
finest  anchovies  is  mellow,  red,  and  high  flavDuredj 
and  the  bone  moist  and  oily. 

Put  into  a  marble  mortar  a  pound  of  anchovies, 
beat  them  to  a  pulp,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  quart  and  half  a  pint  of  water,  let  them 
simmer  rerj/  gently  by  the  side  of  a  slow  fire  for  an 
hour  and  a  half,  frequently  stirring  them  together. 
(Thisis  the  proper  way  to  perfectly  dissolve  the  fish, 
and  completely  incorporate  it  with  the  water,  so 
that  it  may  continue  suspended,  and  not  separate. 
To  pr  re  cut  the  separation  of  essence  of  av.chox)!/^ 
various  other  expedients  have  been  tried,  such  as 
the  addition  of  mucilage,  flour,  oatmeal,  or  gum  ; 
but  where  any  of  these  things  are  added,  it  does 
not  keep  half  so  well  as  it  does  without  thera.) 
vSkiin  it  well,  and  add  to  it  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  a 
drachm  of  Cayenne  pepper ;  let  it  simmer 
together  ten  minutes  longer,  and  strain  it.  If  this 
is  properly  made,  a  tablespoonful  will  be  about 
equal  io  an  anchovy. 

Obs.  —  It  must  he  kept  in  a  rery  close  stopped 
bottle  ;  for  if  the  air  gets  to  it,  the  fish  takes  the 
rust,  and  it  is  spoiled  cliiectlj/-    Some  of  the  oil- 


SAUCES,  GEAVIES,  &C. 

shops  colour  this  with  bole  armeniac,  rose  pink, 
Venice-red,  &c. ;  but  all  these  additions  deterio- 
rate the  flavour  of  the  anchovy,  and  the  palate 
and  stomach  suffer  for  the  gratification  of  the 
eye,  which,  in  culinary  concerns,  will  never 
be  indulged  by  the  sagacious  gourmand^  at  the 
expense  of  these  two  primum  mobiles  of  his 
pursuits. 

*,^*  If  essG.nce  of  anchovy  he  made  for  the  use  of  private 
families,  it  should  he  with  goed  sherry  or  Madeira  wine, 
(instead  of  water,  as  directed  above,)  not  merely  to  enrich 
the  flavour  of  the  sauce,  but  it  will  keep  infinitely  better. 


Anchovy  Paste,     (No.  434.) 

Wash  your  anchovies,  rub  off  the  scales,  and 
take  away  the  head,  bones,  and  fins  ;  pound 
the  meat  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  a  very  little 
fresh  butter,  till  it  becomes  a  smooth  paste,  theij 
rub  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  pot  it ;  cover  it 
very  closely,  and  keep  it  in  a:  cool  place. 

Obs.  —  This  is  sometimes  made  into  a  stiffer 
paste  by  using  a  little  spice,  or  Cayenne,  and  a 
very  little  brandy,  instead  of  butter.  The  former 
preparation  is  very  convenient  for  sauces,  the 
latter  makes  a  most  savoury  sandwich.  It  is  an 
excellent  garnish  for  fish,  put  in  pats  round  the 
edge  of  the  dish. 

Anchovy  Pozvder.     (No.  435.) 

Bone  the  fish,  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  and 
make  them  into  a  paste  with  fine  flour,  roll  it 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

iiitotbin  cakes,  and  dry  them  in  a  Dutch  oveii 
before  a  slcpvv  tire,  and  then  they  will  pound  to  a 
jSne  pavyder,  Ayhich,  in  a  well-stopped  botile,  will 
keep  for  years.  It  is  a  very  savoury  relish 
spriuk|ed,on  bread  and  butter  foE  a  sandwich. 

SOY.     (No.  456.) 

To  a  small  teacupful  of  water  add  half  a  pound 
6f  treacle,  or  moist  or  lump  sugar;  set  it  on  the 
fire  in  an  iron  pot  till  it  boils  to  a  dark  brown  colour, 
keep  stirring  it,  and  take  great  care,  or  it  wilt 
burn:  when  it  is  become  quite  thick,  add  to  it 
a  quarter  ounce  of  salt,  and  gradually  as  much 
water  as  will  reduce  it  to  the  consistence  of  soy ; 
mix  well  together,  and  boil  up  for  five  minutes. 
The  addition  of  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  strong 
beef  glaze*  to  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  the  burnt 
sugar  will  very  much  improve  it :  those  who  like 
a  gout  of  acid  may  add  vinegar. 

Obs.-^Th'is  will  hardly  be  told  from  what  is 
commonli/  called  "  genuine  India  soi/y'  and  will 
answer  every  purpose  that  is  used  for.  Burnettrea- 
cle,  or  sugar,  and  Cliili  vinegar,  garlick,  and 
pickled  fish,  appear  to  be  the  bases  of  almost  all  the 
sauces  that  are  now  sold  in  the  oil-shops.  Although 
indefatigable  research  and  experiment  has  put  us 
in  possession  of  all  these  compositions,  it  would 
not  be  quite  fair  to  enrich  the  cook  at  the  expense 
of  the  oilman,  &c. 

*  See  No.  187.  Beef  glaze  is  notliing  more  than  strong  beef 
gravy  reduced  to  the  consistence  of  a  syrup  that  will  hani^ 
about  the  spoonc 


SAUCES,   GRAVIES,  &C. 

Essence  of  Walnuts,      (No.  437.) 

Take  walnuts  of  the  size  for  picklin^^,  cut  and 
pound  them  in  a  marble  mortar,  sprinkle  a  little 
salt  over  them,  and  stir  them  up,  and  let  them 
stand  to  settle  for  twenty-four  hours  ;  press  off  the 
juice,  and  to  each  quart  add  half  a  pound  of  an- 
chovies, and  tlie  like  quantity  of  peeled  and  sliced 
eshallots,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  the  best  wine  vi- 
negar ;  give  them  a  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  till  the 
anchovies  are  melted,  and  then  strain  the  liquor 
upon  two  ounces  of  soup-herb  powder,  half  an 
ounce  of  bruised  black  pepper,  the  same  quantity 
of  flour  of  mustard,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  nut- 
meg grated,  a  drachm  of  Cayenne  pepper,  half  a 
dozen  bay  leaves,  and  half  a  pint  of  port  wine  ; 
let  all  simmer  together  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  and  then  run  it  through  a  flannel  bag  till 
it  is  fine. 

Walnut  Catsup.      (No.  438.) 

Take  two  hundred  walnuts  when  quite  tender, 
put  them  into  a  gallon  of  salt  and  w^ater  for  a 
week  :  drain  and  dry  them,  mash  them  to  a  pulp 
in  a  marble  mortar,  with  a  pound  of  salt ;  let  it 
rest  three  or  four  days,  and  press  all  the  juice 
from  it ;  to  each  gallon  of  liquor  put  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  minced  shallots,  half  an  ounce  of 
bruised  cloves,  same  of  mace  and  black  pepper, 
one  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  salt ;  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  strain  it 
through  a  flannel  bag. 

By  adding  a  glass  of  brandy  io  each  quart,  it 
will  keep  much  better. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 


Or, 

Mash  tbe  rinds  of  walnuts  with  sail,  and  prepare 
as  above. 

%*  We  have  not  tried  either  of  the  above  catsups,  but  have 
them  from  so  good  a  cook,  that  zee  dare  say  they  are  properly 
made. 


MUSHROOM  CATSUP,     (No.  439.) 

When  properly  prepared,  according  to  the  fol- 
lowing directions,  is  the  most  delicious  addition  to 
made  dishes,  ragouts,  soups,  sauces  or  hashes. 
Mushroom  gravy  approaches  the  nature  and 
flavour  of  meat  gravy  more  than  any  vegetable 
juice,  and  is  the  best  substitute  for  it  in  meagre 
soups,  and  extempore  gravies,  the  chemistry  of 
the  kitchen  has  yet  produced,  to  agreeably 
awaken  the  palate  and  encourage  appetite. 

I  believe  the  following  is  the  best  way  of  ex- 
tracting and  preparing  the  essence  of  mushrooms, 
so  as  to  procure  and  preserve  all  their  fine  flavour 
for  a  considerable  length  of  time.  Fine  full  grown 
flap  mushrooms  are  to  be  preferred:  put  a  layer 
of  these  at  the  bottom  of  a  deep  earthen  pan,  and 
sprinkle  them  with  salt,  then  another  layer  of 
mushrooms,  and  some  more  salt  on  them,  and  so 
on  alternately,  salt  and  mushrooms  ;  let  them 
remain  two  or  three  hours,  by  which  time  the 
salt  will  have  penetrated  into  the  mushrooms,  and 
rendered  them  easy  to  break ;  mash  them  well 
with  your  hands,  and  let  (hem  remain  in  salt  for 
forty-eight  hours,  stirring  them  up  and  mashing 
them  well  each  day;  then  pour  them  into  a  stone 
jar,  and  to  each  quart  add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

of  whole  black  pepper ;  s(op  the  jar  very  close, 
and  set  it  in  a  stewpan  of  boiling  water,  keeping 
it  boiling  for  two  hours.  Take  out  the  jar,  and 
when  the  contents  are  cold,  pour  the  juice  clear 
from  the  settlings  into  a  clean  stewpan  ;  let  it  just 
boil  up,  skim  it,  and  pour  it  into  a  clean  dry  jar 
or  jug  ;  let  it  stand  till  next  day,  then  pour  it  off 
as  gently  as  possible,  (so  as  not  to  disturb  the 
settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the  jug,)  through  a  taml 
mis,  or  thick  flannel  bag.  Bottle  it  in  pints  or 
half  pints ;  (for  it  is  best  to  keep  it  in  such  quanti- 
ties as  are  soon  used  :)  in  each  pint  put  a  dozen 
berries  of  black  pepper,  the  same  of  allspice,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  brandy  *.  Take  especial  care 
that  it  is  closely  corked  and  sealed  down.  If  kept 
in  a  cool,  dry  place,  it  will  be  good  for  two  years ; 
but  if  it  is  but  badly  corked,  and  kept  in  a  damp 
place,  it  will  soon  spoil.  Examine  it  every  three 
months,  and  if  any  pellicle  appears  about  the  neck 
of  the  bottle,  boil  it  up  again  with  a  few  pepper^ 
corns. 

Obs. — You  have  here^^e  Quintessence  of  mush- 
rooms^  and  a  tablespoonful  of  it  Avill  impregnate 
half  a  pint  of  sauce  with  the  full  flavour  of  them, 
in  much  greater  perfection  than  can  be  obtained 
either  from  pickled  or  dried  powder  of  mush- 
rooms. 


*  We  have  added  no  more  spice,  &:c.  than  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary to  feed  the  catsup,  and  keep  it  from  fermenting.  Brandy 
is  an  excellent  preservative  to  all  preparations  of  this  sort, 
pickles,  &c.  &c.  The  less  the  natural  flavour  of  the  mush- 
rooms is  overpowered  the  better,  and  we  believe  Brandy  to 
deteriorate  it  so  little,  it  can  hardly  be  perceived  by  the  finest 
palate. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

What  is  sold  for  mushroom  catsup,  is  generally 
an  injudicious  composition  of  so  many  different 
tastes,  that  the  flavour  of  the  mushroom  is  over- 
powered by  a  farrago  of  garlic,  anchovy,  mustard, 
shallot,  beer,  wine,  spices,  &c. 

Ready  made  catsup  is  little  better  than  a  de- 
coction of  spice  and  water,  with  the  grosser  parts 
of  the  mushrooms  all  beaten  up  to  a  pulp. 

Excellent  mushroom  catsup  may  he  had  at  But- 
ler's herb  and  seed  shop,  opposite  Henrietta 
Street,  Covent  Garden, 

Mushrooms  Presewed.     (No.  .440.) 

To  every  pint  of  mushrooms  that  remain  after 
you  have  strained  the  liquor  from  them,  as  in  the 
preceding  receipt,  add  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ground  black  pepper  ;  stir 
well  together,  and  put  them  into  small  jars  for  en- 
riching hashes,  gravies,  soups,  or  any  brown  made 
dishes,  in  which  the  flavour  of  the  mushroom  is 
agreeable.  Close  stopped  they  will  keep  tlie  year 
round. 

Oyster  Catsup.     (No.  441.) 

Take  fifty  fine  Milton  oysters  ;  wash  them  in 
their  own  liquor,  which  must  be  boiled  and  well 
skimmed  ;  beard  them,  and  pound  the  oysters  in  a 
marble  mortar,  and  boil  them  in  their  liquor,  with 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  white  wine,  for  half  an 
hour  ;  strain  through  muslin,  and  add  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  half  the  peel,  a  drachm  of  mace^ 
nutmeg,  and  ginger  grated ;  boil  for  ten  minutes 
longer,  add  half  an  ounce  of  shallots,  and,  when 
cold,  bottle  it  with  the  shallots  and  spice  in  it. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  ^X. 

Obs, — This  composition  very  agreeably  height- 
ens the  flavour  of  all  wliite  sauces,  and  whi(e 
made  dishes,  and  if  you  add  a  wine  glass  of 
brandy  to  each  pint,  it  will  keep  good  for  a  couple 
of  years. 

Cockle  and  Muscle  Catsup     (No.   442.) 

May  be  made  in  the  same  way  as  the  oyster 
catsup. 

Tomata  Catsup,      (No.  443.) 

Gather  a  gallon  of  fine,  red,  and  full  ripe 
tomatas  ;  mash  them  with  one  pound  of  salt ;  let 
them  rest  for  three  days,  press  off  the  juice,  and 
to  each  quart  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ancho- 
vies, two  ounces  of  shallots,  and  an  ounce  of 
ground  black  pepper  ;  boil  up  together  for  half  an 
hour,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  put  to  it  the 
following  spices ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace, 
the  same  of  allspice  and  ginger,  half  an  ounce  of 
nutmeg,  a  drachm  of  coriander  seed,  and  half  a 
drachm  of  cochineal ;  pound  all  together ;  let 
them  simmer  gently  for  twenty  minutes,  and 
strain  through  a  bag  :  when  cold,  bottle  it, 
adding  to  each  bottle  a  wineglass  of  brandy.  It 
will  keep  for  seven  years. 

White  Catsup.     (No.  444.) 

To  a  pint  of  white  wine  vinegar  put  a  dozen 
anchovies;  let  them  simmer  on  a  trivet  by  the 
side  of  the  fire  till  they  are  dissolved,  then  strain 
them  ;  when  they  are  cold,  add  a  pint  of  sherry 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

wine,  the  peel  of  a  large  lemon  pared  very  thin, 
half  a  dozen  bay  leaves,  an  ounce  of  scraped 
horseradish,  two  drachms  of  grated  nutmeg,  one 
of  bruised  clov^es,  the  same  ofwiiite  pepper  and 
ginger,  and  a  dozen  eshallots  cut  in  quarters  ;  stop 
your  jar  very  close  ;  keep  it  in  a  warm  situation 
for  ten  days,  shaking  it  up  every  day,  and  then 
decant  it  for  use. 

Cucumber  Catsup.     (No.  445.) 

Peel  and  slice  two  dozen  large  cucumbers,  add 
one  third  part  of  onions  sliced,  and  throw  a  hand- 
ful of  salt  over  them ;  let  them  stand  for  a  day 
and  a  half,  occasionally  stirring  them  up ;  strain 
them  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  to  each  quart 
of  liquor  a  handful  of  scraped  horseradish,  the 
peel  of  a  lemon,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  black  pep- 
per, two  drachms  of  mace  bruised;  boil  together 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  a  close  covered  vessel, 
and  strain  it  :  when  cold,  bottle  it,  and  put  to 
each  pint  a  large  tablespoonful  of  good  brandy, 
to  preserve  it  from  fermentation,  decomposi- 
tion, &c. 

Ohs. — Either  of  the  preceding  combinations 
will  be  found  a  very  agreeable  zest  to  most  white 
dishes. 

Pudding  Catsup.    (No,  446.) 

Half  a  pint  of  brandy,  a  pint  pf  sherry, 

An  ounce  of  mace, 

And  half  an  ounce  of  cloves. 
Let  them  steep  for  fourteen  days,  and  then  strain 
it,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  capillaire.    This  will 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  ^C. 

keep  for  years,  and  added  to  melted  butter,  is  a 
most  delicious  relish  to  puddings,  and  many 
sweet  dishes. 

Potatoe  Mucilage.     (No.  448.) 

Peel  and  wash  a  pound  of  full  grown  potatoes, 
grate  them  on  a  bread  grater  into  a  deep  dish 
containing   half  a  gallon  of  clear  water ;  strain 
this  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  pour  half  a  gallon 
more  water  through  the  sieve ;  save  the  water, 
and  leave  it  ten  minutes  to  settle  ;  pour  off  the 
water,  and  fill  up  the  dish  again  with  fresh  water, 
let  it  settle,  and  repeat  this  every  ten  minutes,  as 
long  as  the  water  is  stained  reddish :  you  must 
change  the  water,  and  stir  it  up  agairt*  :  you  will 
at  last  find  a  fine  white  powder  at  the  bottom  of 
the  vessel ;  lay  this  on  a  sheet  of  paper  in  a  hair 
sieve  to  dry,  either  in  the  sun,  or  before  the  fire, 
and  it  is  ready  for  use.     A  large  teaspoonful  of 
this,  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water, 
will  be  sufficient  to  thicken  a  quart  of  gravy,  into 
which  it  must  be  stirred  just  before  you  take  it 
up,  and  will  go  as  far  as  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  butter. 

Obs This  preparation  requires  some  pa- 
tience and  perseverance,  and  this  is  the  great 
secret  of  making  it :  it  is  worth  knowing,  for  it 
gives  a  richness  and  fine  fulness  on  the  palate  to 
gravies  and  sauces  at  hardly  any  expense,  which 


*  The  criterion  whereby  any  one  making  potatoe  farina 
may  jiidge  of  its  being  completed,  is  by  the  purity  of  the 
water  that  comes  from  it  after  stirring  it  up, 
o 


5AUCES,   GRAVIES,  »S:C. 

by  the  usual  mode  of  producing;  an  equal  (lesrree 
of  consistency,  would  cost  an  extravagant  sum, 
arid  not  be  better.  As  it  is  perfectly  tasteless, 
it  will  not  alter  the  flavour  of  the  most  delicate 

broth,  (Sec. 

Mrs.  Raf aid's  Brozciiing,     (Xo.  449.) 

Beat  to  powder  four  ounces  of  fine  lump  sugar;tj 
put  it  into  a  clean  iron  fryingpan  witli  one' 
ounce  of  butter  ;  set  it  over  a  clear  fire,  and  mix 
it  very  ^^cll  together:  w  hen  it  befrins  to  be  frothy  , 
the  suijar  is  dissolving  ;  tlien  hold  it  higher  over 
the  fire,  and  have  ready  a  ])int  of  red  wine  ;  when 
the  sugar  and  butter  are  of  a  deep  brown,  j3our  iu 
a  little  of  the  wine,  stir  it  thoroughly  together, 
aud  gradually  add  the  rest  of  the  wine,  and  keep 
stirring  it  all  the  time  ;  put  in  half  an  ounce  of  all- 
spice, six  cloves,  tour  shallots  peeled,  and  two  or 
three  blades  of  mace,  three  tablespoonsful  of  mush- 
room catsup,  a  little  salt,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon 
peeled  as  thin  as  possible  ;  boil  up  slowly  for  \en 
minutes;  pour  it  into  a  basin;  when  cold,  take 
off  the  scum  very  clean,  and  bottle  it  for  use. 

Obs.  —  The  above  is  a  pleasant  sauce  ;  but  the 

cook  must  remember  it  will  alter  the  flavour  as 
well  as  colour  of  whatever  it  is  added  to. 

2^Irs.  Raff  aids  Lemon  Pickle.   (No.  450.) 

Take  a  dozen  lemons,  grate  off  the  out  rinds 
very  thin,  cut  them  in  four  quarters,  but  leave  the 
bottoms  whole;  rub  on  them  equally  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  bay  salt,  spread  them  in  a  large 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

pewter  dish,  and  let  tlicm  dry  gradually  by  the 
fire  (ill  all  the  juice  is  dried  into  (he  peels;  then 
put  thera  into  a  stone  jar,  with  half  an  ounce  of 
mnce,    quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves  beat  fine, 
half  an  ounce  of  nutmeg  cut  in  thin  slices,  two 
oujiccs  of  garlick  peeled,  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
mustard-seed  bruised  a  little,  and  tied  in  a  nuisliri 
bag  ;   pour  a  quart  of  boiling  ^vhite  uine  vinegar 
upon  them,  close  the  pitcher  or  jar  \vell  up,  and 
let  it  stand  five  or  six  days  by  the  fire  :  shake  it 
■well  every  day,  then  tie  it  up  as  close  as  possible, 
and   let   it  stand  for  three   months.     When  you 
bottle  it,  put  the   pickle  and  lemon   into  a  hair 
sieve,  press  them  w  ell,  to  get  out  the  liquor ;  let 
it  stand  till  next  d^y  ;  then  pour  off  the  fine  and 
bottle  it;  let  the  rest  stand  three  or  four  days  and 
it  Avill  settle ;  pour  off  the  fine  again,  and  let  it 
again  settle  till  you  have  poured  off  all  you  cam 
get  fine.     It  may  be  put  into  any  white  sauce,  and 
>v ill  not  hurt  the  colour;   is  very   good  for  fish 
sauce  and  made  dishes,  especially  of  veal;  a  tea- 
spoonful  is  enough  for  "white,  and  two  for  brown 
sauce  for  a  fowl  :  it  is  a  most  useful  pickle,  and, 
gives  a  pleasant  flavour  :  be  sure  you  put  it  in' 
before  you  thicken  the  sauce,  or  put  any  cream 
in,  lest  the  sharpness  make  it  curdle. 

Obs,  —  ''  I  have  given  no  directions  for  cullis, 
as  I  have  found  by  experience  that  lemon-pickle 
and  browning  answer  both  for  beauty  and  taste, 
(at  a  trifling  expense.)  better  than  the  most  ex- 
travagant cullisses.  Had  I  known  the  use  and 
value  of  these  two  receipts  when  I  first  took 
upon  me  the  part  and  duty  of  a  housekeeper, 
they  would  have  saved  me  a  great  deal  of  trouble 
o2 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

in  making  gravy,  and  tliose  I  served  a  great  deal 
of  expense."  Seethe  preface  to  Raffald's  Cook- 
ery ^  London,  8vo.  1806.  We  suppose  Mrs  R's. 
praise  of  these  two  sauces  to  be  well  deserved,  as 
they  have  been  copied  into  almost  every  cookery 
book  that  has  gone  to  press  since. 

Hash  Sauce.     (No.  45 1 .) 

Mushroom  catsup,  three  ounces. 
Eshallot  wine,  half  an  ounce. 
Walnut  pickle,  one  ounce. 
Browning,  one  ounce. 
Mix.     If  you  wish  it  to  keep  for  a  great  length 
of  time,  add  half  an  ounce  of  soup-herb  spirit  to  it. 

Ohs.  —  This  is  not  only  a  most  convenient 
relish  for  hashes,  but  being  composed  of  proper 
proportions  of  the  ingredients  usually  employed 
to  flavour  and  make  sauce  for  hashes,  it  will  save 
much  time  and  trouble,  and  is  thus  easily  made. 
Take  a  piece  of  butter  about  as  big  as  a  walnut, 
put  it  into  a  stewpan,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  ;  when 
it  looks  brown,  put  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour; 
stir  it  thoroughly  together,  aud  add  to  it  twelve 
berries  of  black  pepper,  and  the  same  of  allspice, 
a  teaspoonful  of  soup-herb  powder,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  three  tablespoonsful  of  hash  sauce  ; 
put  to  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil 
gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to  re- 
ceive the  meat  that  is  to  be  warmed  in  it. 

Piquant e   Vinegar,   or  Sauce  for  Salads    - 
or  Cold  Meats.     (No.  452.) 
Horseradish  scraped  fine,  two  ounces. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

Sweet  basil  dried  and  pounded,  half  an  ounce. 

Flour  of  mustard,  an  ounce. 

Salt,  and  black  pepper,  of  each  half  an  ounce. 

Celery  seed,  half  a  drachm. 

Best  white  wine  vineg-ar,  a  quart ; 
and  half  a  pint  poured  hot  over  these   ingredi- 
ents :  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  about  a  fortnight. 

Salad  Mixture,     (No.  453.) 

Take  white  wine  vinegar,  one  quart. 
Salt,  two  ounces. 
Boil  them  up  together,  and  scum  it  well :  then 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  half  a  dozen  eggs,   strain 
through  a  sieve  :  add  to  these, 

Three  tablespoonsful  of  made  mustard,  and 
Half  a  pint  of  olive  oil,   or  oil  of  sweet  al- 
monds. 
Mix  this  thoroughly  together  in  a  mortar,  and 
put  it  to  your  vinegar  in  the  stewpan ;  set  it  over 
a  very  slow   fire,   and   keep   stirring   it   with    a 
wooden   spoon   till  it   is   simmered   to   the   con- 
sistence of  cream.    When  cold,  bottle  it,  and  cork 
it  carefully. 

Curry  Powder.     (No.  454.) 

Take  of  the  best  Durham  flour  of  mustard  four 
ounces. 

Put  the  following  ingredients  in  a  cool  oven  all 
night,  the  next  morning  pound  them  in  a  marble 
mortar,  and  rub  them   througli  a  silk  sieve. 

Coriander  seed,  four  ounces. 

Turmeric,  four  ounces. 

Black  pepper,  three  ounces. 

Cayenne  pepper,  half  an  ounce. 
o3 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

Qinger,  one  ounce. 
Cinnamon,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce. 
Lesser  cardamoms, 
Cloves, 

Mace,  each  lialf  an  ounce- 
Mix  all  well   together,   and  put  them  into   a 
wide  mouthed  bottle. 

Ohs. — Fennel  and  Cummin  seed  are  sometimes 
added  to  the  above  ;  a  few  bay  leaves  are  also  oc- 
casionally used. 

Cheap  Curry  Pozvder,    (No.  455.) 

Dry  and  reduce  the  following  spices  to  a  fine  pow- 
der, in  the  same  way  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt. 

Coriander   seed,    four  ounces. 

Turmeric,   three  ounces. 

Black   pepper,  one  ounce. 

Ginger,  one  ounce. 

Cayenne  pepper,  quarter  of  an  ounce. 

Lesser  cardamoms,  one  ounce. 

Cinnamon,  quarter  of  an  ounce. 

Mix  together,  and  keep  them  in  a  wide  mouth 
bottle. 

Obs,  —  These  two  receipts  were  given  me  by  a 
friend  :  as  I  have  not  tried  them,  I  cannot  vouch 
for  their  being  the  actual  ingredients  of  what  is 
sold  as  the  Indian  composition. 

Messrs.  Ball,  81,  New  Bond  Street  sell  very 
good  curry  powder. 

Italian  Tamara.     (No.  456.) 

Coriander   seed,   one   ounce. 
Cinnamon,  one  ounce. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  ^C. 

Clove,  one  ounce. 
Fennel  seed,  halt'  an  ounce. 
-Annisced,    half  an   ounce. 
Beaten  into  powder,    used    in   the   same    way 
as   the   curry    powder. 

SAVOURY  RAGOUT    POWDER. 

(No.  457.) 

Mustard, 

Allspice,  and 

Black  pepper  ground  and  sifted  fine,  half  an 
ounce   each. 

Ginger, 

Nutmeg  grated,  njid 

Salt,  a   quarter   of  an   ounce  each. 

Pvlace,  two  draciims. 

Cayenne  pepper,  one  drachm. 

Pound  ihem  in  a  morlar,  and  pass  them  through 
a  fine  hair  sieve  :  bottle  them  for  use.  The  above 
articles  will  pound  much  easier  and  finer  if  they 
are  dried  first  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  a  very  gentle 
fire,  at  a  good  distance  from  it :  if  you  give  iheni 
much  heat,  all  the  finest  fiavoar  of  them  will  be 
evaporated,  and  they  will  soon  get  a  strong  rank 
taste. 

Obs. — The  spices  in  a  ragout  are  indispens- 
able to  give  it  a  flavour,  but  not  a  p^redominant  one  ; 
their  presence  should  be  rather  supposed  than 
perceived;  they  are  the  invisible  spirit  of  good 
cookery,  and  that  happy  mixture  of  them,  and 
proportion  to  each  other  of  the  other  ingredients 
which  produces  an  exquisitely  delicious,  yet  inde- 
finable flavour,  is  tJie  *'  c/ze/ffcewrre"  of  a  first 
rate  cook.  But  this  grand  art  of  mixing  and  com- 
o  4 


t^AUCES,  GRAVIES,  kc. 

binin^  spices,  &c.,  no  one  hitherto  has  attenipfed 
to  teach  :  this  is  the  first  practical  work  on  the 
subject,  %vherein  the  receipts  are  given  accu- 
rately by  weight  and  measure. 

PEA  POWDER.     (No.  458.) 

Rub  together  in  a  marble  mortar  equal  pnrl? 
of  dried  mint  and  sage;  put  them  through  a  fine 
sieve,  and  send  it  up  on  a  small  plate,  with  green 
pease,  or  pease-soup. 

Obs.  —  A  twelfth  part  of  celery  seed  powdered 
may  be  added,  if  the  flavour  of  celery  is  approved. 

Soup-herb  Pozvde?^  or  Vegetable  Relish, 
(No.  459.) 

Of  dried  parsley,  two  ounces. 

Winter-savory,  one  ounce. 

Sweet  marjoram,  one  ounce* 

Lemon-thyme,  one  ounce. 

Lemon-peel,  cut  very  thin  and  dried,  one  ounce. 

Sweet  basil,  half  an  ounce- 

%*  Some  add  to  the  above,  hay  leaves  and  celery   seed,  a 
drachm  each. 

Dry  them  in  a  warm,  but  not  too  hot  Dutch  oven  : 
when  quite  dried,  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  and 
pass  tliem  through  a  double  hair  sieve  :  put  in  a 
boltle  closely  stopped,  and  it  will  retain  its  fra- 
irrance  and  flavour  for  a  twelvemonth. 

ObS'  —  This  composition  of  tlie  fine  aromaiic 
herbs,  is  a  most  invaluable  acquisition  to  (ho 
cook :  it  is  much  preferable  to  the  spice  powder, 
as  it  impregnates  sauce,  soup,  &c.  with  as  much 
relish,   and   renders   it   equally   agreeable  to  the 


SAUCESj  GRAVIES,  &C. 

palate,   refresbing  the  gustatory  nerves,  without 
offending  the  stomach,  &c. 

SOUP-HERB  AND   SAVOURY  POW> 

DER,  OR  QUINTESSENCE  OF 

RAGOUT.     (No.  460.) 

^     Take  three  parts  of  soup-herb  powder  to  one 
part  of  savoury  powder. 

Oh$. — These  powders  should  be  kept  ready 
prepared  ;  they  will  save  a  great  deal  of  time  in 
cooking  ragoutsj  stuffings^  forcemeat-balls,  soups, 
sauces,  &c. ;  kept  dry  and  tightly  corked  down, 
their  fragrance  and  strength  may  be  preserved 
undiminished  for  several  years. 

TO    PRESERVE   SWEET    AND    SA- 
VOURY HERBS.     (No.  461.) 

For  the  following  accurate  and  valuable  infor- 
mation^ the  reader  is  indebted  to  Mr.  Butler, 
Herbalist  and  Seedsman,  opposite  Henrietta 
Street,  Covent  Garden  Market,  where  the  several 
articles  may  be  obtained  of  the  best  quality,  at 
the  fair  market  price. 

It  is  very  important  to  those  who  are  not  in  the 
constant  habit  of  attending  the  markets,  io  know 
when  the  various  seasons  commence  for  purchas- 
ing sweet  herbs,  &c.,  so  necessary  to  be  preserved 
when  in  the  highest  state  of  perfection  :  these  are 
fullest  of  flavour  just  before  they  begin  \o  flower  % 
the  first  and  last  crop  have  neither  the  fine  flavour 
nor  the  perfume  of  those  which  are  gathered  in 
the  height  of  the  season  ;  that  is,  when  the  greater 
part  of  the  crop  of  each  species  is  ripe  at  the 
same  period ;  take  care  they  are  gathered  on  a 
o5 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

dry  day,  by  which  means  they  will  have  a  bet- 
ter colour  when  dry.  Cleanse  your  herbs  well 
from  dirt  and  dust,  cut  off  the  roots,  separate  the 
bunches  into  smaller  ones,  and  hang  them  across 
11  line  in  the  kitchen,  where  there  is  a  moderate 
heat,  which  will  dry  them  in  an  excellent  manner  : 
when  perfectly  dry,  put  them  in  bags,  and  lay 
them  by  on  a  shelf  in  the  kitchen,  they  will  keep 
good  for  twelve  months,  and  be  ready  in  the 
moment  when  wanted  ;  or  rub  them  off  the  stalks 
and  put  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  the 
powder  into  well  stopped  bottles :  by  this  means 
their  flavour  is  still  better  preserved.  I  would 
recommend  parsley  and  fennel  to  be  dried  rather 
quicker  than  the  other  herbs,  and  rubbed  clean 
from  the  stalks  before  they  are  bagged  :  these  are 
not  generally  dried,  but  those  who  have  experi- 
enced the  goodness  of  them  in  this  state,  will  not 
willingly  omit  preserving  them. 

Basil  is  in  the  best  state  for  drying  from  the 
middle  of  August,  and  three  weeks  after. 

Knotted   Marjoram,  from  the  beginning  of 
July,  and  during  the  same. 

Winter  Savory,  the  latter  end  of  July  and 
throughout  August. 

Summer  Savory,  the  latter  end  of  July,  and 
throughout  August. 

Thyme, 

Lemon-Thyme, 

Orange  Thyme*,  during  June  and  July. 

Mint,  latter  part  of  June,  and  during  July. 

Sage,  August  and  September. 

Tarragon,  June,   July,   August. 

•  A  very  delicious  herb,  that  deserves  to  be  better  known. 


SAUCES,   G  R  A  V I E  S,  &C. 

CHERViii,  Maj^,  June,  July. 
Burnet,  June,  Jn]y,  August. 
Parsley,  May,  June,  July. 
Fennel,  May,  June,  July. 
Elder  Flowers,  May,  June,  July. 
Orange  Flowers,  May,  June,  July. 

PICKLES.     (No.  462.) 

Commencini^  this  list  with  walnuts,  I  must  take 
this  opportunity  of  impressing  the  necessity  ot* 
being  strictly  particular  in  watching-  the  time,  for 
of  all  the  variety  of  articles  required  in  this  depart- 
ment, to  furnish  the  well  regulated  store-room, 
nothing  is  so  precarious, — for  frequently  after  the 
first  week  that  walnuts  come  in  seasoii  they  be- 
come hard  and  shelled,  particularly  if  the  season 
is  a  very  hot  one,  therefore  let  the  prudent  house- 
keeper consider  it  indispensably  necessary  they 
should  be  purchased  as  soon  as  they  first  appear 
at  m.arket;  should  they  cost  a  trifle  more,  that  is 
nothing  compared  to  the  disappointment  of  find- 
ing six  months  hence,  when  you  go  to  your  pickle 
jar  expecting  a  fine  relish  for  your  chops,  &c.,  to 
find  nuls  incased  in  a  shell,  that  defies  both  teeih 
and  steel :  I  therefore  recommend  looking  for  them 
from  the  twelfth  of  July  ;  that  being,  i  may  say, 
the  earliest  possible  time. 

Nasturhums  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of 
July. 

Onions,  the  various  kinds  for  pickling,  are  to 
be  had  by  the  middle  of  July,  arid  ibr  a 
month  after. 

Gherkins  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of 
July,  and  for  a  month  after. 


SAUCES,  ^llAVlESj    SCC, 

Cucumbers  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of 
July,  and  for  a  month  after. 

Melons  for  Mangoes  are  to  be  had  by  the  mid- 
dle of  July,  and  for  a  month  after. 

Capsicums,  green,  red,  and  yellow,  the  end  of 
July,  and  following  month. 

Chillies,  the  end  of  July,  and  following 
month. 

Love  Apples,  or  Tomatas,  end  of  July,  and 
throughout  August. 

Cauliflower,  for  pickling,  July  and  August. 

Artichokes,  for  pickling,  July  and  August. 

Jerusalem  Artichokes,  for  pickling,  July 
and  August,  and  for  three  months  after* 

Radish  Pods,  for  pickling,  July. 

FiiENcii  Beans,  for  pickling,  July. 

Mushrooms,  for  pickling  and  catsup,  Sep* 
tember. 

Red  Cabbage,  August. 

White  Cabbage,  September  and  October, 

Samphire,  August. 


THE  MAGAZINE  OF  TASTE. 

(No.  463.) 

This  incomparable  auxiliary  to  the  cook  we 
liave  several  times  made  mention  of  in  the  course 
of  our  work.  The  following  sketch  will  enable 
any  one  to  fit  up  an  assortment  of  flavouring  ma- 
terials according  to  their  own  fancy  and  palate, 
and,  we  presume,  will  furnish  sufficient  variety 
for  the  thorough-bred  gourmand^  and  consists 
of  a  mahogany  '*  sauce  box,"  with  four  eight 
ounce  bottles,    sixteen  four  ounce  bottles,    and 


SAUCES,   GRAVIES,  BiC, 


eight  two  ounce  bottles,  containing  the  following 


ingredients 

1  Pickles. 

2  Brandy. 
8  Curasao. 

4  Syrup. 

5  Salad  sauce^  452, 

and  453. 

6  Pudding  catsup, 

446. 

7  Double  relish. 

8  Walnut  pickle. 

9  Mushroom  catsup, 
10  Vinegar. 

H  Oil. 

12  Mustard. 

13  Salt, 

14  Curry  povvdcrj 

455. 

15  Soy,  436.^ 

16  Lemon  juice, 

17  Cavice. 

38  Pepper.      . 
19  Cayenne. 


20  Soup-herb  powder, 

459. 

21  Ragout  powder, 

457. 

22  Pea  powder,  458. 
^3  Zest,  255. 

24  Essence  of  celery, 

409. 
^5  Sweet  herbs,  419. 

26  Lemon-peel,  408. 

27  Eshallot,  402. 
^S  Powdered  mint. 

In  a  drazcer  lutder^ 
Haifa  dozen  one  ounce 

bottles. 
Weights  and  scales. 
Measures. 
Corkscrew. 
Nutmeg  grater. 
Table  and  teaspoon. 
Knife  and  fork,  and 
Small  mortar. 


1 

2 

5 

13   i21 

6 

14  22 

7 

S 

15  i  23 

16  |24 

3 

4 

9 

17  |25 

10 

18  .26 

11 

19  27 

12  1  20  .  28  i 

SAUCES,  GRAVTES,  &C. 

Toast  and  JVater.      (No.  463.*) 

Take  a  slice  of  a  s(alc  loaf,  about  tJic  tbickness 
toast  is  usually  cut;  toast  it  carefully  until  it  be 
complcteljj  hrozDi^ed  all  over^  but  not  at  all  black- 
ened or  burnt :  put  this  in  a  jug,  and  pour  upon 
it  as  mucli  clean  boilino^  water  as  you  wish  to 
make  into  drink,  cover  ihejug  with  a  saucer  or 
plate,  and  let  it  stand  till  it  is  quite  cold  :  the 
fresher  it  is  made  the  better,  and  more  agreeable. 

Or, 

To  make  it  more  expeditiously,  lay  a  slice  of 
bread,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  in  a  cheese- 
toaster  before  the  fire,  till  it  is  brown  through  ; 
put  it  into  a  mug,  and  just  cover  it  with  boiling 
water ;  let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  fill  it  up  with  cold 
spring  water,  and  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve. 

OhS'  —  Tiie  above  will  be  found  a  pleasant, 
light,  and  excellent  beverage  at  meals. 

Cool  Tankard^  or  Beer  Cup.   .  (No.  464.) 

A  quart  of  mild  ale,  two  glasses  of  white  wine, 
one  glass  of  brandy,  one  of  capillaire,  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  nutmeg  grated  on  the  top,  and  a 
sprig  of  borrage*  or  balm. 

*  "  Borrage  is  one  of  the  four  cordial  flowers  ;"  it  comforts 
the  heart,  clieers  melancholy,  and  revives  the  fainting  spirits, 
says  Salmon  in  the  45th  page  of  his  "  Household  Compa- 
nion,'' London,  1710.  Combined  with  the  other  ingredients 
in  the  above  receipt,  v\-e  have  frequently  observed  it  produce 
all  the  cardiac  and  exhiiaratijig  eiitcts  ascribed  to  it  by 
Dr.  S. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 


Cider  Cup     (No.  465.)  ; 

Is  the  same,  only  substituting  the  cider  for  the  I 
beer.  j 

Flip.     (No.  4G6.)  I 

Beat  two  eg^^s  for  about  icn  minutes,  mix  half  j 
a  tablespoonful  of  moist  sugar,  and  as  much  ; 
grated  nuhneg  as  will  lie  on  a  shilling.  Put  a  i 
pint  of  ale  into  a  saucepan  ;  when  it  is  liot,  pour  ; 
it  into  a  basin  to  the  eggs,  &c.,  and  back  again 
into  the  saucepan,  and  back  again  three  or  four  ' 
times,  till  it  is  quite  sraootli.  j 

Ttwahdiddle,     (No.  467.) 

A  pint  of  table  beer,  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  brown  sugar,  or  clarified  syrup ;  , 
a  little  grated  nutmeg  or  ginger  may  be  added,  i 
and  a  roll  of  lemon-peel.  ! 

Ohs  —  Before  our  readers  make  any  remarks  on  , 
this  composition,  we  beg  of  them  to  taste  it ;  and  i 
if  their  palate  does  not  differ  very  much  from  that  ■ 
of  its  inventor,  they  will  find  it  one  of  the  most 
delicious  beverages  they  ever  put  to  their  lips. 

To  bottle  Beer.      (No.  468.)  i 

When   the   briskness    and    liveliness    of  malt' 
liquors  in  the  cask  fail,  and  they  begin  to  turn' 
dead  and  vapid,  let  them  be  bottled;  be  careful 
to  use  clean  and  dried  bottles ;  leave  them  un- 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  kc. 

stopped  for  twelve  hours,  and  then  cork  them  as 
closely  as  possible  v/iih  good  and  sound  new 
corks  ;  put  a  bit  of  lump  sugar  as  big  as  a  nutmeg 
into  each  bottle  i  it  will  be  ripe,  i.  e.  fine  and 
sparkling,  in  about  six  weeks,  if  the  weather  is 
cold  ?  to  put  it  up,  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  drank 
place  it  in  a  room  where  there  is  a  fire. 

^j.%  Tfthe  beer  becomes  too  harder  stale,  a  few  grains  of  salt 
of  tcorwnood  added  to  it  at  the  time  it  is  drank^  wiU  ver^ 
mucli  recover  it  to  its  original  state. 

Rich  Raspberry  tVine  or  Brandy.  (No.  469.) 

Bruise  the  finest  ripe  raspberries  with  the  back 
of  a  spoon,  strain  them  through  a  flannel  bag  into 
a  stone  jar,  allowing  a  pound  of  fine  powdered 
loaf  sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice  ;  stir  well  toge- 
ther, and  cover  it  down  ;  let  it  stand  for  three 
days,  stirring  it  up  each  day;  pour  off  the  clear, 
and  put  two  quarts  of  sherry  or  Cogniac  brandy 
to  each  quart  of  juice  %  bottle  it  off:  it  will  be  fit 
for  the  glass  in  a  fortnight. 

Punch,    (No.  470.) 

The  grand  secret,  or  rather  art,  of  making 
genuine l3ritish  punch,  consists  in  the  preparation 
of  a  rich  and  delicate  sherbets  this  being  accom- 
plished,  with  the  addition  of  the  best  Jamaica 
rum,  or  French  brandy,  and  pure  hot  or  cold 
water  ;  the  mixture  may  be  too  strong  or  too 
weak,  but  cannot  possibly  prove  bad  punch. 

In  preparing  sherbet  for  punch,  the  acids  of 
cream  of  tartar,  tamarinds,  and  various  other  pre* 


SAUCES^  GRAVIES,  Cs:c, 

pared  vegetable  acids,  as  well  as  that  particularly 
denomiirited  citric  acid,  are  occasionally  cm- 
ployed ;  but,  perhaps,  after  all,  the  juices  of 
limes,  leraonsj  and  Seville  orang-es,  expressed 
from  the  fresh  fruits,  when  attainable,  make  the 
sort  of  sherbet  which  seems  most  congenial  with 
the  nature  of  good  British  punch. 

Procure  a  couple  of  ripe,  sound,  and  fresh 
lemons,  or  limes,  and  a  Seville  orange  ;  rub  off 
the  yellow  rind  of  one  of  the  lemons  with  lumps  of 
fine  loaf  sugar,  putting  each  lump  into  the  bowl 
as  soon  as  it  is  saturated  or  clogged  with  the 
essence  or  grated  rind  ;  then  thinly  pare  the 
other  lemon  and  Seville  orange,  and  put  these 
rinds  also  into  the  bowl,  to  which  add  plenty  of 
sugar  ;  pour  a  very  small  quantity  of  boiling  water, 
and  immediately  squeeze  tlie  juice  of  the  fruit,  fol- 
lowed by  a  little  more  hot  water.  Incorporate  the 
whole  well  together  with  a  punch  ladle  ;  r:.  ■  put- 
ting a  little  of  the  sherbet  thus  composec'L'  <*y  its 
richness  and  flavour  by  the  palate.  If  the  fruit  be 
good,  a  practised  punch  maker  will  find  little 
which  requires  to  be  regulated,  and  that  little  can 
soon  be  adjusted  by  supplying  the  aqueous,  sac- 
charine, or  acid  deficiencies,  so  as  to  produce  a 
luscious  and  rich  bodied  sherbet,  fit  for  the  re- 
ception of  the  sj3irit  which  is  to  give  it  animation. 
If  straining  should  be  found  necessary,  this  is  the 
period  for  using  a  lawn  sieve,  through  which  a 
little  more  hot  water  may  afterwards  be  passed  ; 
and  a  few  parings  of  the  orange  or  lemon  rind  are 
generally  considered  as  having  an  agreeable  ap- 
pearance floating  in  the  bowl.  The  sherbet  being 
thus  prepared,  to  make  it  into  genuine  British 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

punch,  spirit  should  be  added  iti  the  proportions 
of  a  bottle  of  (he  best  Jamaica  rum  to  every  pint 
of  the  finest  Cogniac  brandy  :  the  entire  strength 
or  weakness  may  be  suited  to  the  general  inclina- 
tion of  the  company  for  which  it  is  prepared. 
The  above  quantity  of  fruit,  with  about  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  will  make  sufficient 
sherbet  for  three  quarts  of  punch. 

Pine  apple  rum,  and  capillaire  syrup  instead  of 
part  of  the  sugar,  may  be  used,  if  convenient, 
w'llh  coiisider^'ble  advantage  to  the  flavour; 
tliough  it  will  prove  excellent  punch  without 
cither  of  these  auxiliaries,  or  even  Seville  orange. 
The  same  sort  of  sherbet  may,  of  course,  be  used 
for  brandy  punch,  or  rum  punch  singly  ;  but 
punch  is  seldom  so  made  in  England  :  most  per- 
sons indeed  mix  equal  parts  of  rum  and  brandy. 
-Arrack  punch,  however,  is  always  made  with  that 
sp  rit  alone,  and  usually  with  a  simp-e  sherbet  of 
lime  or  lemon  juice,  with  sugar,  as  the  flavour  of 
the  Seville  orange  interferes  too  much  with  the  pe- 
culiar flavour  of  the  arrack,  which  proves  so  grate- 
fid  to  most  tastes,  though  to  many  very  unpleasant. 
"When  with  the  richest  sherbet,  sometimes  render- 
ed still  richer  by  fruit  jellies,  and  even  nutmeg, 
^vine  is  mingled  with  the  rum  and  brandy  instead 
of  water,  the  liquor  is  called  punch  royal. 

The  ndxture  of  a  sm.all  quaiitity  of  ale  or  porter, 
highly  recom.inended  by  some  in  making  punch, 
seems  only  advisable  when  it  is  rum  punch,  made 
"without  any  brandy,  and  must,  even  then,  be 
very  sparingly  introduced.  This  article,  what- 
ever may  appear  its  value,  is  furnished;,  with  re- 
gard to  its  j>rinciples,  by  one  of  the  first  practical 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

punch  makers  in  Europe ;  who  could  easily,  by 
dwellings:  «'»  minute  circumstances,  have  supplied 
matter  tor  a  small  volume  ;  the  essence  of  which 
is,  however,  he  freely  confesses,  here  sufficiently 
co.'iceatrat^d  for  every  usefid  purpose. 

With  regard  to  the  salubrity  of  punch,  wheu 
drank  in  moderation,  hot  in  winter,  or  cold, 
and  even  iced  in  summer,  it  affords  a  most  grateful 
beverage;  admirably  allaying  thirst,  promoting 
the  s(?cretions,  and  conveying  animnliofi  to  the 
spirits.  U\  however,  amid  the  hilarity  excited 
by  the  tempting  iVagrance,  and  luscious  taste, 
which  the  balmy  bowl  seldom  fails  to  inspire,  it 
be  too  freely  and  too  h;ibitually  drank,  its  power- 
ful combination  of  spirit  and  acid,  instead  of 
proving  favourable  to  the  constitution,  will  infalli- 
bly tend  to  bring  on  the  gont,  even  sooner  than 
most  wines  or  strong  cider,  unless  happily  pre- 
vented by  using  a  considerable  deal  of  exercise. 
;  Punch,  like  all  the  prime  blessings  of  life,  is 
excellent,  and  even  salutary,  when  prudently  en- 
joyed at  proper  seasons.  We  must  not  cliarge  on 
them  pur  own  want  of  discretion,  by  which  alone 
they  are  ever  converted  to  evils. 

The  apparently  whimsical  English  name  of 
punch,  like  the  liquor  itself,  is  of  West  India 
origin,  the  word  in  the  aboriginal  language  sig- 
nifying simply  five,  being  the  number  of  ingre- 
dients there  used  :  viz.  1,  acid,  or  lime,  or  lemon 
juice;  2,  sweetness  or  sugar;  3,  spirit  or  rum, 
&c.  ;  4,  water ;  and  5,  spicy  flavour,  or  nutmeg, 
&c.  It  is  singular,  too,  that  punch,  the  word  for 
five,  consists  of  just  five  letters. 

From  the  opposite  natures  of  the  several  ingre- 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

dleiits,  punch  has  also  been  sometimes  called   the 
liquor  of  contradictions. 

%*  For  this  tiery  elaborate  rectipt  lam  indebted  to  that  ex- 
cellent zcork,  "  The  Family  Receipt  Book,"  Ato.  London  ." 
printed  for  Oddj/  and  Co.,  Oxford  Street,  London,  which  is 
certainly  the  best  collection  I  have  seen,  and  deserves  a 
place  in  every  steward's  room,  as  should  also  "  Appert's  Art 
of  Preserving  Animal  and  Vegetable  Substances." 

Fine  Red  Ratijia.     (No.  471.) 

Mash  together  in  a  tub  or  pan,  three  pounds  of 
black  cherries,  two  of  ripe  red  gooseberries,  and 
one  of  raspberries,  or  mulberries  ;  mix  with  these 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  and  twenty- 
four  cherry  kernels,  previously  well  pounded  in 
a  mortar,  with  a  pint  of  syrup  :  put  all  into  a  jar, 
stop  it  close,  and  keep  it  for  \q\\  days  in  a  heat  of 
about  ninety  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's  thermome- 
ter :  then  press  it  through  a  clean  napkin,  let  ii 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  and  add  to  each  quart  of 
juice  a  pint  of  good  brandy ;  next  day  strain  it 
through  a  flannel  bag,  that  it  may  be  quite  clear, 

Ohs,  —  The  French  liqueurs  are  in  general 
very  badly  imitated  here,  from  our  substituting 
bitter  almonds  for  peach  and  apricot  kernels,  and 
common  proof  spirit  for  their  fine  Cogniac  brandy. 

Cherry  Rrandy.     (No.  472.) 

To  a  pound  of  ripe  Morella  cherries  mashed 
•well  with  your  hands,  add  a  quart  of  brandy  ;  let 
them  steep  for  three  days,  then  press  the  liquor 
through  a  napkin  ;  sweeten  it  with  good  •lump 
sugar,  let  it  stand  a  week  in  a  covered  vessel, 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

and  (hen  bottle  it.     This  is  also  the  best  v/ay  of 
making" 

Raspherry  Brandy,     (No.  473c) 

Curacao.     (No.  474.) 

Pour  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  on  three 
ounces  of  fine  thin  cut  Seville  orange-peel  that  has 
been  dried  and  pounded  in  a  marble  mortar;  stop  it 
close ;  when  it  is  cold,  add  to  it  a  quart  of  brandj^ ; 
let  it  steep  fourteen  days :  decant  it  clear,  and 
add  to  it  a  quarter  pint  of  clarified  sugar;  to  pre- 
pare which,  see  the  next  receipt. 

Ohs,  —  This  is  the  best  way  of  making  this 
best  of  liqueurs,  which  is  not  merely  an  agreeable 
cordial,  but  an  essential  friend  to  the  stomach. 

Clarified  Syrup.     (No.  475.) 

Put  a  pound  and  three  quarters  (avoirdupois) 
of  fine  lump  sugar  into  a  clean  stewpan,  that  is 
well  tinned,  with  one  pint  of  cold  spring  water, 
and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire :  beat  about  the 
sixth  part  of  the  white  of  an  egg  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cold  water  ;  put  it  to  the  sugar  before 
it  gets  warm,  and  stir  it  well  together.  VVatch  it, 
and  when  it  boils  take  off  the  scum ;  and  keep  it 
boiling  till  no  scum  rises:  when  it  is  perfectly 
clear,  run  it  through  a  silk  sieve,  or  a  clean  napkin  : 
put  it  into  a  close  stopped  bottle ;  it  will  keep  for 
months,  and  is  an  elegant  article  on  the  side- 
board for  sweetenings. 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 


Capillaire.     (No.  476.) 

To  a  pint  of  clittified  sjrup  add  a  wineglass  of 
Curasao. 

Lemonade  in  a  Alinute,     (No.  477.) 

Dissolve  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  (avoirdu- 
pois) of  pulverized  crystallized  lemon  acid  (witli  a 
few  drops  of  quintessence  of  lemon-peel,  No.  408,) 
in  a  pint  of  clarified  syrup.  Two  tablespoonsful 
of  this  in  a  pint  of  water  will  immediately  produce 
the  most  asjreeable  sherbet ;  the  addition  of  rum  or 
brandy  will  convert  this  into 

Punch  directly,     (No.  478.) 

Shrub,     (No.  479.) 

A  quart  of  brandy,  diluted  with  the  expressed 
filtered  juice  of  two  Seville  oranges,  and  the  peel 
of  half  a  one  steeped  for  three  days,  and  half  a 
pound  of  lump  sugar  then  added  to  it,  and  then 
strained  through  flannel,  produces  this  very 
palatable  but  seductive  liquor,  incomparably 
more  tempting  and  insinuating  than  any  of  the 
simple  spirits,  because,  in  combination  Avith  szceet 
ingredients,  it  imperceptibly  stimulates,  and  gra- 
dually impairs  the  digestive  organs. 

Mock  Jrrack,     (No.  480.) 
Dissolve  two  scruples  of  flowers  of  benjamin  in 


SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  &C. 

a  quart  of  good    rum,   and   it  will  give   it  the 
flavour  of  the  tinest  arrack. 

SpiriluGus  Sijrup  of  Tea.     (No.  48 1 .) 

Pour  a  quarter  pint  of  water  on  three  ounces, 
avoirdupois  weight,  of  fine  young  hyson;  let  it 
stand  an  hour,  and  add  to  it  a  pint  of  brandy,  or 
proof  spirit  ;  let  it  steep  for  ten  days,  shaking  it  up 
every  day ;  strain  it,  and  sweeten  it  with  strong 
clarified  syrup. 

Obs.  —  A  teaspoonful  or  two  of  this  in  a  tumbler 
of  water,  is  a  very  refreshing  beverage  in  summer. 


MADE  DISHES. 

GENERAL   OBSERVATIONS. 


Under  this  general  Lead  we  range  our 
receipts  for  hashes,  stews,  fricasees,  and  ra- 
gouts *  :  of  these  there  are  a  great  multitujde, 
affording  the  ingenious  cook  an  inexhaustible 
store  of  very  rich  and  pleasing  variety  :  we  have 
very  few  general  observations  to  make,  after  what 
we  have  already  said  in  the  chapter  of  gravies, 
sauces,  soups,  &c.,  which  apply  to  the  pre- 
sent chapter,  as  they  form  the  principal  part  of 
the  accompaniment  of  most  of  these  dishes.  We 
have  given  receipts  for  the  most  easy  and  simple 
way  to  make  hashes,  &c. ;  for  only  those  who  are 
well  skilled  in  culinary  arts  know  how  good 
things  may  be  dressed  up  in  this  way,  so  as  to  be 

*  Gravy  for  ragouts,  &c.,  should  be  thickened  till  it  is 
of  the  consistence  of  good  rich  cream.  When  you  have  a  large 
dinner  to  dress,  always  keep  ready  mixed  some  fine  sifted 
fiour  and  water  well  rubbed  together  till  quite  smooth  and 
about.as  thick  as  batter. 


MADE    DISHES. 

as  agreeable  and  nutritious  as  they  were  the  first 
titne  they  were  cooked  ;  the  main  hiisiness 
of  7)11/  book  being  to  increase  the  comforts  of 
moderate  families  and  moderate  fortunes.  I 
have  also  given  directions  for  preparing*  the 
more  composite  and  elaborate  made  dishes,  still 
keeping  constantly  in  mirjd,  nol  to  make  either 
(he  stomach  or  the  purse  siitFer  for  the  plea- 
sure of  tiie  palate  ;  endeavouring  to  hold  the 
balance  even,  between  the  agreeable  and  the 
wholesome,  and  the  epicure  and  the  economist. 
This  is  by  no  means  so  difficult  a  task  as  some 
gloomy  philosophers  (uninitiated  in  culinary  sci- 
ence,) have  tried  to  make  the  world  believe, 
whose  leading  doctrines  are,  that  every  thing  that 
is  nice  must  be  noxious,  and  every  thing  that  is 
nasty  must  be  wholesome.  But  as  Shakspeare 
could  never  find  a  philosopher  who  could  endure 
Ihe  tooth-ach  patiently,  so  I  have  never  met  with 
a  philosopher  who  did  not  love  a  feast. 

I  promise  those  who  do  me  the  honour  to  put 
my  receipts  into  practice,  they  will  find  that  the 
most  agreeable  and  truly  elegant  dislies  are  not 
always  the  most  difficult  to  dress,  the  most  expen- 
sive, or  the  most  indiofcstible  :  be  it  known  to  all 
whom  it  may  concern,  that  in  these  compositions 
knowledge  will  go  farther  than  expense;  and  if 


]MADE    BISHES. 

sonic  of  my  receipts  nppcar  to  differ  a  IKtle  from 
]>rccefliMg'  or  co-temporary  cookery-book-makers, 
let  it  be  remembered;  1  fi'.ive  advasiccd  notliirig  in 
tins  work  tliat  1  have  not  tried,  and  had  fre- 
quent experience  of  its  success. 

AVhilc  we  are  contriving  to  give  evevy  gratifi- 
cation in  tlic  utmost  perfection  to  the  lover  of 
good  eating,  we  have  not  put  any  temptations  in 
the  Wciy  of  the  valettidinarian  that  he  may  not 
occasiofially  partake  of,  not  only  with  impunity, 
but  with  advantage  :  the  infirm  stomachs  of  inva- 
lids sometimes  require  a  little  indulgence,  and 
like  other  bad  instruments  want  oiling,  and  screw- 
ing, and  winding  up,  and  adjusting  with  the 
utmost  care,  to  keep  them  in  tolerable  order ; 
they  will  receive  the  most  salutary  stimulus  from 
now  and  then  making  a  full  meal  of  a  favourite 
dish.  I  believe  this  is  not  a  singular  notion  of 
my  own,  (or  a  good  word  for  my  fellow  spit-mates,) 
though  it  may  not  exactly  agree  with  the  present 
fastidious  fancy  of  some  of  the  faculty,  that  starva- 
tion is  tlie  sovereign  remedy  for  all  disorders. 
As  abundance  of  eating  and  drinkirjg  is  perhaps 
one  of  the  most  frequent  causes  of  the  disorders 
of  the  rich,  so  privation  is  the  common  source  of 
complaints  among  the  poor  ;  and  the  cause  of  the 
one  is  the  cure  of  the  other :  still  1  hold  it  lawful 


MADE  DISHES. 

to  excite  the  blunted  palate,  when  enfeebled  by 
age,  or  indisposition,  luxurious  living,  or  intem- 
perance ;  and  an  healthful  impetus  may  be  given 
to  the  system  by  the  help  of  a  favourite  soup  or 
ragout*,  at  less  expense  to  the  machinery  of  life 
than  by   the  use  of  those   spirituous  stimuli  t, 

*  Good  Mock  Turtle,  (see  No.  216,  or  246*,)  wiil  agree 
with  weak  stomachs  surprisingly  well.  This  excellent  soup 
is  frequently  ordered  for  dyspeptic  patients  by  the  senior  phy- 
sician to  one  of  the  largest  hospitals  in  this  metropolis  :  as  a 
man  of  science  and  talent,  certainly  in  as  high  estimation  as 
any  of  his  medical  coteniporaries. 

t  Tlie  following  observations  are  extracted  from  Dr. 
*^  Reece's  Gazette  of  Health:' 

All  wines  naturally  possess  a  proportion  of  alcohol  (ar- 
dent spirit)  ;  but  to  the  foreign  wines  a  quantity  is  added,  to 
prevent  their  running  into  the  acetous  fermentation  during 
the  voyage  to  this  country,  and  this  is  proportioned  to 
the  quality  of  the  wine.  In  order,  therefore,  to  ascertain  the 
quantity  which  the  different  wines  contain  on  an  average,  the 
experiments  have  been  made  on  wines  from  different  vendors. 
Brandy  and  rum  are  sold  at  different  degrees  of  strength  ;  in- 
deed, some  termed  white  brandy  and  white  rum,  are  highly 
rectified.  The  brandy  and  rum  employed  in  the  following 
experiments  were  obtained  from  a  respectable  wine  mer- 
chant, who  was  desired  to  send  samples  of  the  articles  as 
generally  sold  to  the  public. 

A  bottle  of  port  wine,  containing  twenty-six  ounces,  which 
had  been  in  bottle  seven  years,  produced  two  ounces  and 
seven  drachms  of  alcohol  (ardent  spirit). 
p2 


MADE  DISHES. 

that  merely  fan  a  feverish  fire  by  inflaming  the 
circulation  for  a  few  minutes,  without,  at  the 
same  time,  contributing  any  fuel  to  feed  the  lamp 
of  life,  which,  if  its  construction  be  organically 
defective,  or  is  impaired  by  the  wear  and  tear  of 
time  or  disease,  will  sometimes  not  burn  brightly, 
unless  it  is  supplied  with  the  best  oil,  and  trim- 
med in  the  most  skilful  manner.  None  hut  the 
most  obstinately  ignorant  visiona??/  would  dream 

A  bottle  of  port  wine,  containing  twenty-five  ounces  and  a 
half,  (one  year  in  bottle,  and  two  years  in  wood,)  two  ounces 
and  six  drachms. 

A  bottle  of  pale  sherry,  three  years  old,  containing  twenty- 
five  ounces,  produced  three  ounces, 

A  bottle  of  Madeira,  two  years  old,  containing  twenty-five 
•unces  and  a  half,  two  ounces  and  five  drachms. 

A  bottle  of  Cape  Madeira,  one  year  old,  containing  twenty- 
five  ounces,  two  ounces  and  a  half. 

A  bottle  of  old  hoc,  containing  twenty-one  ounces,  nearly 
an  ounce. 

A  bottle  of  brandy,  containing  twenty-four  ounces,  ten 
ounces. 

A  bottle  of  rum,  containing  twenty-four  and  a  half 
ounces,  nine  ounces  and  a  half. 

A  quart  of  public-house  ale  (not  bottled),  from  the  brewery 
of  Mr.  Wyatt,  one  ounce. 

From  a  quart  of  common  draught  porter,  from  the  brewery 
of  Messrs.  Elliot  and  Co.,  five  and  a  half  drachms. 
'    From  the  foregoing  results,  it  appears  that  four  bottles, 


MADE    DISHES^ 

of  laying  dox0n  rules  for  governing  the  caprice 
and  whims  of  the  infirm  stomachs  of  crazy  in- 
valids.  Here  all  (he  codes  of  dietetics  fail,  and 
the  sug-gestions  of  reason  are  commanly  in  di- 
rect opposition  to  the  desires  of  appetite.  In  all 
matters  of  importance  regarding  the  adjustment  of 
this  most  supreme  organ  of  existence,  honest  in- 
stinct comes  a  volunteer,  and  nine  times  out  of 
ten  makes  out  a  fair  title  to  be  called  "  unerring*.'* 

either  ofport,  slierry,  or  Madeira,  contain  more  ardent  spirit 
than  a  bottle  of  brandy. 

Three  bottles  of  sherry  are  nearly  equal  to  one  bottle  of  rum. 

That  ten  bottles  of  hock,  or  ten  quarts  of  ale,  or  about 
fourteen  and  a  half  quarts  of  porter,  are  equal  to  a  bottle  of 
brandy. 

*  "  As  to  the  quality  of  food,  though  whatever  is  easy  of 
digestion,  singly  considered,  deserves  the  preference;  yet, 
regard  must  be  had  to  the  palate  and  appetite,  because  it  is 
frequently  found,  that  what  the  stomach  earnestly  covets, 
thougb  of  difficult  digestion,  does  nevertheless  digest  better, 
than  what  is  esteemed  of  easier  digestion  if  the  stomach 
nauseates  it:  I  am  of  opinion  the  patient  ought  to  eat  only  of 
one  dish  at  a  meal."     Vide  Sydenham's  Treatise  on  Govt. 

"  My  appetite  is  in  several  things  of  itself  happily  enough 
accommodated  to  the  health  of  my  stomach  :  whatever  I  take 
against  my  liking  does  me  harm;  but  nothing  hurts  me  that 
I  eat  with  appetite  and  delight."  Vide  honest  Montaigne's 
Essay  on  Experience,  book  iii.  chap.  13. 

"  The  taste,  considered  superficial!  v,  would  seem  to  be  a 

p3 


MADE    DISHES. 

A  Utile  respect  to  the  sug-gestions  of  iuslincf^ 
every  invalid  will  find  of  iritinKe  advantage  : 
those  Avho  are  poor  in  health,  must  live  as  tliey 
can :  certainly  the  less  stimuli  any  of  us  u^e,  the 

sensation  peculiar  to  the  moutl),  and  diatijict  from  that  of 
hunger  or  thirst.     But,   if  we  trace  its  origin,  we  shall    be- 
convinced  that  this  organ,  which  in  the  moutii  makes  us  sen- 
sible of  the  fitness  and  delicacy  of  meats  and  drinks,  is  t!ie 
selfsame  principle,  that  in  the  mouth,  siullet,  and  stomach,  is 
craving  for  food,  and  incites  us  to  a  longing  after  it.     Tliese 
three  parts,  properly  speaking,  are  but  one  continued  organ,, 
and  have  but  one  and  the  same  object.     If  the  mouth  cre- 
ates in  us  an  aversion  to  any  particular  food,  does  not  the 
gullet  recoil  at  the  approach  of  it  ?    and  does  not  the  slo-. 
mach     immediately     discharge    its    disagreeable    contents?! 
Hunger,  thirst,  and  taste,  are  therefore   three  effects  of  the 
same    or^an.      Hunger  and   thirst    are   the  motions   of  the 
organ  desirous   of  its   object.      The   taste    is  the  motion  of 
the  organ,  in  the  enjoyment  of  this  object.     This  unity  of  the 
organ,  in  regard  of  hunger,  thirst,  and  taste,  is  the  cause  of 
these  three  effects  biriiig  almost  always  in  the  same  propor- 
tion in  the  same  persons.     The  more  violent  the  appetite  foe 
food  is,  the  greater  is  the  enjoyment  in  eating;,  and  the  uiore 
the  taste  is  gratified,  the  more  easily  the   organs  defr.iy    the 
expense  of  this  gratification,  by  digestion.     This  rule  is  gene- 
ral,  in    regard   of  all  the   sensations  and    all   the  passions. 
Genuine  desire  constitutes  the  proportion  of  the  pleasure,, 
and  of  the  power  without  this  mutual  consent,  founded  on  the 
sympathy  of  these  organs,  our  sensations  would  destroy  that 


MADE    DISHES. 

bcUcr ;  and  (hose  combiu.ations  Avhicli  excite  the 
circulation  at  the  least  expense  of  nervous  and  mus- 
cular irrifation,  and  afibrd  the  greatest  porlion  of 
nourishment,  must  be  most  friendly  to  the  stomach, 
V.  hen  it  demands  restorative  diet. 

Jf  strong  spices  and  savoury  herbs  awaken  the 
appetite,  they  in  an  increased  ratio  accelerate  the 
action  of  the  bowels,  and  prematurely  hurry  the 
food  through,  the  alimentary  canal,  too  rapidly  to 
allow  the  absorbents  to  do  their  work  properly. 
We  advise  diose  whose  stomachs  stand  in  need  of 
such  artificial  stimulants,  if  they  value  either  in- 
tensive or  extensive  life,  rather  to  abstain  from 
dishes  requiring  a  vigorous  stomach,  than  resort  to 
such  pernicious  means  of  forcing  the  action  of  a 
feeble  one  :  moreover,  by  the  too  frequent  use  of 
piquante  sauces,  &c.,  the  papillary  nerves  of  the 
palate  become  so  blunted,  that  in  a  little  time  they 
lose  all  sensibility  and  relish  for  plain  nourishing 

bt'ing,  foF  wliose  benefit  they  are  estabh'shed.  It  is  very  natu- 
ral that  the  mouth,  wliich  first  receives  the  aliment,  and  of 
course  becomes  the  taster,  as  it  were,  in  respect  of  the  gullet 
nnd  stomach,  should  he  endued  with  a  discernino;  property 
beyond  them  ;  as  it  is  the  part  of  a  good  clerk  of  the  kitclien 
to  distiugaish  himself  by  an  elegant  ciioice  of  provisions,  to 
prevent  bis  incuiring  the  disp'eisure  of  his  employers.'' 
Vide  the  ingenious  Le  Cas's  E^say  on  the  Senses. 

p4 


MADE    DISHES. 

food,  and  the  sensualist  is  punished  witli  all  the  suf- 
ferings of  incessant  and  incurable  indigestion,  per- 
turbed sleep,  and  the  horrors  of  the  night  mare, 
&c  &c.  :  however,  enough  has  been  wrilten  a 
thousand  times  over,  hy  a  thousand  cautionists,  to 
convince  any  rational  creature  of  the  advantages  re- 
sulting to  both  body  and  mind  from  a  simple  mid 
frugal  fare  :  tfie  great  secret  of  henKh  and  lon- 
gevity is  to  keep  up  the  sensibility  of  tJie  stomach. 
It  is  highly  gratifying  to  me,  to  find  my  senti- 
ments so  frequently  in  unison  ^vith  these  of  the 
editor  of  the  "  Almanach  des  Gotfrmands,''  indis- 
putably ihe  best  written  book  on  the  savoir  vivre^ 
and  which  1  had  not  met  with  till  my  own  work  was 
nearly  ready  to  go  to  press.  In  the  5lh  volume, 
pnge  195,  speaking  of  the  immoderate  use  of 
spices,  &c.  he  says  :  '^  The  stomach,  the  bowels, 
tlie  liver,  and  the  other  viscera,  soon  become 
aflbcted  with  many  unmanageable  maladies, 
against  which  all  the  skill  of  Esculapius  will 
avail  nothing.  Seek  appetite,  then,  from  air  and 
exercise,  rather  than  from  the  excessive  use  of 
exotic  stimulants,  especially  the  inflammatory 
spices,  which  arc  burning  as  the  sun  which 
produces  them;  and  however  medicinal  or  ali- 
mentary they  may  be  to  the  inliabitants  of  the 
tropics,  to  us  are  absolute  poisons." 


MADE   DISHES 


Hash  Mutton.     (No.  484.) 

Cut  the  meat  you  intend  to  hash  into  larj^e 
handsome  slices,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
(not  more,)  lay  them  on  a  plate,  ready  ;  make 
your  sauce  as  receipt,  No.  S60;  put  in  the  meat, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  about  twenty  minutes; 
do  not  let  it  boil^  as  that  will  make  your  meat 
grow  tough  aud  hard*. 

To  xvarm  up  Hashes,     (No.  485.) 

Stews,  ragouts,  soups,  &c.  If  you  have  any 
left,  put  it  into  a  deep  hash  dish,  or  tureen  :  when 
you  want  it,  set  this  in  a  stewpan  of  boiling  water; 
let  it  stand  till  the  contents  are  quite  .hot ;  it  will 
eat  as  well  as  when  first  made. 


*  All  hashes  and  meats  dressed  a  second  time,  should  only 
simmer  till  just  warm  through  :  it  is  supposed  they  have  beeii 
done  very  nearly,  if  not  quite  enough,  already :  thougii  you 
will,  of  course,  select  those  parts  of  the  joint  that  have  beeu 
least  done.  In  Jnakingafiashfromalegofmutton,  do  not 
destroy  the  marrow-bone  to  help  the  gravy  of  your  hash,  to 
which  it  will  make  no  perceptible  addition;  but'saw  it  in  two, 
twist  writing  paper  round  the  ends,  and  send  it  up-  on  a 
plate  as  aside  dish,  garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley  ;  if  it  is 
a  roast  leg,  preserve  the  end  bone,  and  send  it  up  betueen  the 
marrozc  bones.   This  is  a  very  pretty  luncheon  or  supper  dish, 

p  3 


MADE    DISHES. 


Hash  Beef    (No.  48^.) 

Is  prepared  and  warmed  in  llie  same  sauce  as 
hashed  mutton. 

Cold  Meat  Brolkd,  with  Poached  Eggs. 
(No.  487.) 

Cut  some  slices  of  mutton,  or  beef,  and  broiF 
lliem  carefully  :  when  done,  hiy  tliem  in  a 
dish  before  the  fire  to  keep  hot^  while  you  poach 
your  etjfgs. 

'1  his  makes  an  excellent  luncheon  or  supper. 

Mushroom  catsup  and  melted  butter  for  sauce,,- 
with  a  few  drops  of  shallot  wine  or  vinegar  in  it. 

Irish  Stew*.    (No.  488.) 

Cut  a  neck  or  breast  of  mutton  into  chops  ; 
slice  a  pound  of  pf)tatoes  to  each  pound  of  meat, 
and  put  in  very  linle  water,  because  the  potatoes 
Tvill  supply  enoug-h  ;  put  in  no  herbs,  but  a  bunch 
of  thyme;  cover  it  clos ',  so  that  no  steam  cau 
evaporate,  and  let  it  just  simmer  lor  an  hour  and 
a  half. 

Obs.  —  Two  onions  may  be  added  to  each 
pound   of  meat. 

*  In  all  stews  and  made  dishes,  take  care  tlie  meat  dae* 
not  go  to  rags,  b^  doing  too  fasr^ 


MADE  DISHES. 


larrlco  Mutton  or  Lamb.     (No.  489) 

Cut  (I)e  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton  into  chops, 
one  rib  to  each  ;  trim  off  part  of  ih<^  fat,  and  the 
lower  end  of  the  chine  bone  ;  lay  them  in  an  iron 
fryin«rpan  over  a  xerij  smart  jire^  and  fry  l^em  for 
a  couple  of  minutes  :  if  your  fire  is  liol  sh':rp, 
the  chops  will  be  done  before  they  are  coloured  : 
the  intention  of  fryins:  (hem  is  merely  to  give  tJiem 
a  broiDtiing.  Tuke  (hem  out  of  (he  fryiuizpan  and 
lay  (Ik  m  in  a  clean  stewpan,  (linrd  v\i(h  (hin  slices 
of  bacon.)  just  big  enough  to  hold  them  wi(hou(  lay- 
ing (hem  one  on  another;  put  a  tahlespoonful  ol  oat- 
meal and  one  oi  flour  to  the  gravy  (he  chops  were 
fried  ii],  widi  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  wnter  : 
when  i(  h;\s  boiled  up  for  two  minutesy  pour  it  into 
the  stewpan  to  (he  chops,  with  a  large  onion,  half  a 
carrot,  and  a  C'juple  of  turnips,  all  cut  in(o  pieces, 
■\vi(h  half  a  ten.spoonful  of  s  dt,  and  a  quar(er  of  a 
te-aspoonful  of  ground  hlack  pepper  ;  cover  them 
close  dowi),  and  lef  them  simmer  very  gently  on 
a  slow  fire  till  (he  chops  are  (horouirhly  tendei*  : 
this  may  take  .'\tj  hour  and  a  half,  or  two  hours  : 
be  very  careful  they  are  not  stewed  (oo  much,  so 
take  one  ol  Xho  cliops  up  with  your  fish  slice  and 
Iry  it :  when  done,  take  them  out  and  lay  (hem 
round  a  dish  big  enough  to  hold  (hem  without 
laying  thvm  over  each  other,  and  leave  a  space 
in  the  middle  to  receive  the  carrots,  turni|[7S,  &c. 
Have  reatly  boiled  two  dozen  round  young  onions, 

*  If  they  are  stewed  too  much  they  are  spo'leH,  and  no 
more  fit  to  eat  than  meat  that  has  been  boiled  down  tor 
gravy. 


MADE  DISHES. 

about  as  big  as  nutmegs,  five  ounces  of  carrofs 
cut  into  slices,  or  shaped  into  balls  as  you  please, 
and  twelve  ounces  of  turnips  divided  into  ])ieces 
about  as  big  as  a  nutmeg  \  have  tliem  drained  dry, 
put  them  into  a  clean  stewpan,  and  strain  to  them 
the  gravy  the  cutlets  were  stewed  in  :  when  your 
carrots  and  turnips  are  hot,  put  them  in  the 
middle  of  the  dish  of  chops,  and  serve  up. 

Ohs.  —  Rump  steaks,  veal  cutlets,  and  beef 
tails,  make  excellent  dislics  dressed  in  the  like 
manner. 

Stewed  Mutton  Chops.     (No.  490.) 

Put  them  into  a  stewpan  witli  water  enough  to 
cover  them  well,  an  onion  cnt  in  quarters,  three 
corns  of  black  pepper,  andalitte  salt;  cover  the 
pan  close,  and  set  it  over  a  very  slow  fire  for  half 
an  hour:  lay  tliem  in  a  dish,  and  pour  over  them 
the  liquor  they  were  stewed  in.  Send  up  turnips 
with  them,  and  caper  sauce. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb  Grilled.     (No.  49 1 .) 

Roast  it  till  almost  done,  then  score  it  in 
checquers  about  an  inch  square,  rub  it  over  with 
the  yolk  of  ^gg^  pepper  and  salt  it,  strew  it 
with  bread  crumbs  and  dried  parsley,  and  broil  it 
over  a  clear  tire  till  it  is  nicely  browned  ;  make  a 
sauce  for  it  of  flour  and  water  well  mixed  toge- 
ther with  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup,  and  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon. 


MADE  DISHES. 


LamKs  Fry,     (No.  492.) 

Parboil  it,  wash,  and  wipe  it  dry,  dip  it  in  an 
^g^  well  beaten  on  a  plate,  and  strew  some  fine 
stale  bread  crnmbs  over  it  ;  fry  it  in  boiling  lard, 
and  garnish  with  fried  or  crisp  parsley. 

Or, 

Instead  of  egging  and  bread  crumbing  it,  flour 
it,  and  fry  it  in  batter,  and  powder  it  with  a  little 
pepper  and  salt. 

Shin  of  Beef  Stexved.     (No.  493.) 

Crack  the  bone  in  two  or  three  places,  put  it 
into  a  stewpan  with  three  quarts  of  water,  a  bundle 
of  sweet  herbs,  a  large  onion  with  fourcloves  stuck 
in  it,  three  carrots,  a  head  of  celery,  a  dozen  berries 
of  black  pepper,  and  the  same  of  allspice  :  stew 
very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  five  hours  :  when 
the  carrots  are  done,  take  thera  out  and  cut  then^ 
into  small  squares ;  peel  and  cut  ready  a  couple 
of  turnips,  and  a  couple  of  dozen  of  small  young 
onions ;  boil  them  till  tender  in  a  pint  of  the 
liquor  the  beef  was  stewed  in:  when  the  beef  is 
quite  tender  take  it  out  carefully  with  a  slice,  and 
put  it  on  a  dish  while  you  thicken  your  gravy  : — 
to  do  this,  mix  three  tablespoonsful  of  flour  with 
a  teacupful  of  the  beef  liquor  ;  stir  this  thoroughly 
into  the  rest  of  the  beef  liquor,  let  it  boil  up  for 
ten  minutes,  scum  off  the  fat,  strain  it  through  a^ 
sieve^  put  your  vegetables  in  to  warm ;  season 


MADE  DISHED 

widi  pepper,  salt,  and  a  wineglass  of  mushroom 
catsup,  and  pour  it  over  the  beef. 

Send  up  Wow  Wow  sauce,  No.  528,  in  a  boat^ 

Brisket  of  Beef  Stezvcd.      (No.  494.) 

This  is  prepared  in  exxirtly  the  same  way  as 
"  soup  and  bouilii/*     See  No.  5. 

Harrkot  af  Beef    (No.  4^5  ) 

A  stewed  brisket  cut  in  slices,  and  sent  up  witii 
the  same  sauce  of  roots,  &c.,  as  we  liave  directed 
for  harricot  of  mutton,  is  a  most  excellent  dibh,,  of 
Y  ry  moderate  expense^ 

Hunters  Beef     (No.  49^) 

A  round  of  beef  that  weighs  twenty-five  pounds 
should  hang  two  or  three  days  ;  then  take  three 
ounces  of  saltpetre,  one  ounce  of  coarse  sugar, 
halt  an  ounce  of  cloves  pounded  sinall,  half  a 
pound  of  common  salt;  incorporate  these  ingre- 
dieiits  by  rubbing  them  together  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar; then  take  the  bor)e  out,  and  rub  the  meat 
well  with  the  above  mixture,  turning  it  and  rub- 
bing it  every  day  for  a  fortnight. 

\\  hen  you  dress  it,  dip  it  in^ocohl  water  ta 
take  oil  the  loose  spice ;  bind  it  up  tight  with  tape 
to  preserve  its  Ibrm,  and  put  it  in^o  a  pan  with  one 
teacupfui  of  water,  and  two  of  red  port  wine; 
cover  the  meat  with  plenty  of  fine  chopped  sqet, 
and  an  onion  or  two  minced  small  ;  cover  tho 
whole  willj  a  flour  crust  to  the  top  or  brim  of  the 


MADE  DISHES. 

pan,  and  let  it  be  baked  in  six  hours.  If  the  beef 
■\veiglis  more,  put  a  proportionate  addition  of  all  the 
ingredients.  The  gravy  you  will  tind  a  strongs 
consomme,  and  will  make  excellent  sauce  or  soup^ 
and  being  impregnated  with  sab,  will  keep 
several  days.  Tlie  meat  must  be  cut  with  a  very 
sharp  knife  to  prevent  waste,^^  and  keep  it  even 
and  comely  to  the  eye.  It  is  a  mast  excellent 
stan  'ing  dish,  and  tor  sandwiches :  eaten  witit 
good  vinei^ar  and  mustard  it  is  equal  to  the  best 
briwn,  and  is  one  of  the  economical,  yet  elegani 
articles  of  ready  dressed  keeping  provisions^ 


Ragout  of  Beef     {No.  497.) 

Beef  for  ragooing  must  be  without  bone;  the 
rump  is  excellent :  a  piece  of  tiie  thick  flank  is 
frequently  used  for  this  puipose,  or  any  o(her  that 
is  m11  meat,  and  has  some  fat  to  it  ;  it  should  be  a 
thick  short  piece. 

W^hen  the  beef  is  ready,  make  some  gravy  in 
tlie  following  manner  ;.  take  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
some  ordinary  piece  of  be«'f,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  b'Con  cut  inio  thin  slicres  and  lay  the  ba- 
con in  some  vinegar  till  the  tollowing  ingredients  are 
ready:  cut  an  onion  and  a  sliallol  into  ihin  slices^ 
pick  off  the  leaves  of  a  sprig  nf  ihyme  and  of  win- 
ter-^avory;  to  these  put  a  c;irfot  split,  &c.^ 
three  bUules  of  mace,  a  teaspoontul  of  bay  saltj 
four  cloves,  and  a  little  pej)pt'r  :  put  in  all  these^ 
ivith  the  sliced  beef  and  bacon,  into  a  quart  of 
•water,  and  let  them  boil  very  slowly  till  il  ( omes 
to  a  pint;  toward  the  ewd  put  in  a  good  t  »asf, 
brown  and  bard,  but  not  burnt;  give  it  u  boil  up^ 


MADE  DISHES. 

and  strain  off  (lie  gravj.  Now  flour  the  piece  oF 
beef,  and  putting  it  into  a  ste'>Ypan  with  a  piece  of 
butter,  fvy  it  brown  all  over  :  when  it  is  well 
browned,  pour  in  a  quart  of  water;  stew^^  it 
slowly  till  it  is  almost  enough,  then  put  in  your 
pint  of  gravy  ;  thicken  it  if  necessary,  and  add  to 
it  a  large  spoonful  or  two  of  mushroom  catsup,  or 
port  wine,  or  both  ;  let  it  have  a  boil  up,  and 
ihen  serve  it  up.  You  may  add  a  little  elder  or 
basil  vinegar,  and  for  a  change  send  up  with  it 
stewed  cucumbers  or  celery. 

Elb  of  Beef  Stewed.     (No.  498.) 

Provide  one  of  the  prime  ribs,  trim  it  neatly, 
and  lay  it  in  a  stewpan  of  nearly  its  own  bigness, 
putting  a  slice  or  two  of  bacon  at  the  bottom  :  lay 
in  your  beef,  and  cover  it  wiih  another  slice  of 
bacon  :  for  seasoning,  put  in  an  onion,  two  carrots 
split  and  cut  in  pieces,  a  little  sweet  basil,  thyme 
and  parsley,  a  couple  of  blades  of  bruised  mace, 
and  some  pepper  and  salt  ;  let  it  stew  ganily  till 
it  is  very  tender :  take  it  out  upon  a  plate,  clean 
it  well  from  fat ;  strain  the  liijuor  into  a  clean 
stewpan,  and  put  to  it  a  teacupful  of  water,  and  a 
large  teaspoonful  of  flour  ;  let  it  boil  away  till  it 
is  thickened,  t^ien  lay  your  meat  in  a  dish,  and 
pour  the  gravy  over  and  round  it.  Send  up  spi- 
nach with  it,  or  parsnips  and  beet  root. 

Obs.  —  This  is  a  very  savoury,  nourishing,  and 
economical  dish,  and  a  valuable  variety  at  a  mo- 
derate table. 

*  Slow  stewing  requires  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  ih^ 
pound  of  meat. 


MADE  DISHES. 


Cold  Beef  garnished  with  Jelli/,     (No.  459.) 

Take  six  pounds  of  the  ramp  of  beef ;  let  it  hang 
three  days  to  make  it  tender  ;  rub  it  \v«ll  with  an 
ounce  of  saKpetre,  and  a  pound  of  saU  ;  let  it  lay 
four  or  live  days,  putting  half  a  pint  of  water  into 
the  salting  pan,  that  your  jelly  may  not  be  too  salt. 
Put  all  these  into  a  jwt  as  nigh  its  size  as  possible  ; 
cover  it  with  water,  and  season  it  with  a  full  sized 
carrot  and  a  large  onion,  a  sprig  of  sweet  marjo- 
ram, three  times  the  quantity  of  parsley,  a  dozeu 
corns  of  whole  pepper,  same  of  allspice  ;  take 
care  to  skim  it  well,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently 
till  it  is  quite  tender,  which  it  ought  to  be  iu 
about  four  hours,  lake  the  beef  out,  carefully 
strain  the  broth  into  a  larger  stewpan,  and  take 
the  grease  off  it;  set  it  on  a  quick  fire,  and  let  it 
boil  away  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  very  strong  jelly  : 
beat  the  whites  and  shells  of  two  eggs  wiih  a  little 
cold  water,  and  put  them  to  the  jelly  :  take  it  off 
the  stove,  let  it  settle  for  a  few  minutes ;  but 
while  it  is  hot,  strain  it  through  a  very  fine  nap- 
kin ;  with  a  paste  brush  rub  a  little  of  it  over  the 
meat;  (this,  iu  culinary  teclmicals,  is  termed 
glazing  it  ;)  put  the  remainder  of  the  jelly  into  a 
iJat  dish  about  an  inch  deep  :  when  it  is  tho- 
roughly cold,  cut  it  out  into  any  shapes  you 
please^  and  garnish  the  beef  with  it. 

Obs^ — Few  things  are  cheaper  than  this,  and  1 
never  saw  it  brought  to  table  w  here  every  one  was 
not  pleased  with  it.  It  is  a  very  delicious  dish 
for  lunclieon  or  supper,  and  will  keep  four  or  five 
days.      Something  cold  of  this  sort  is  very  couyc-. 


MADE  DISHES* 

lutmi  in  small  families;  am]  let  the  cook  who 
would  make  herself  most  agreeable  m  such, 
always  remember  (hat  it  is  her  own  interest  to 
study  that  of  her  employers  ;  let  her  make  it  • 
her  business  io  get  out  of  the  common  tract,  and- 
learn  how  to  make  some  of  those  thincs  th;it  add 
to  the  variety  of  the  table,  wiihout  increasing  the 
expense.  The  most  moderate  tal)le  may,  under 
proper  management,  afford  suliicient  variety; 
there  need  not  be  a  perpetual,  dull  repetition  of 
the  satne  joints,  plairdy  one  after  another,  unless 
it  be  the  fault  of  the  provider  or  the  cook,  tor  there 
are  plenty  of  very  pretty  things  that  may  be. 
dressed  as  cheap  as  a  plain  joint. 

Stezvcd  Rump  Steak,     (No.  500.) 

Two  pounds  of  rump  steak,  (if  you  fear  ihey 
will  not  eat  tender,  beat  them  well,)  line  the  bot* 
tom  of  a  tliree  quart  stewpan  with  slices  of  good 
bacon,  and  on  this  lay  the  steaks,  with  a  pint  arid 
a  half  of  cold  water,  a  dozen  corns  of  allspice,  the 
same  of  black  pepper,  the  red  part  of  a  quarter 
of  a  carrot,  a  little  bundle  of  savory,  sweet  mar* 
joram,  and  parsley,  a  large  onion  with  two  cloves 
s!uck  in  it,  and  half  a  head  of  celery  ;  cover  iheiu 
up  closely,  and  let  them  simni.er  gently  an  hour 
and  a  half;  if  they  are  thin  steaivs,  an  hour  wilt 
be  enough  ;  take  care  the  ineal  (jloes  not  go  to  rags 
bj/  doif?o-  too  fast  or  too  much.  When  the  steaks 
are  tender  take  them  up,  flour  them,  and  fry  them 
just  to  brown  them  in  an  ounce  of  butter  -.  make 
some  thickening  with  an  ounce  of  butter  and 
two  tablespoonsful  of  flour;  put  it  into  your  sauce  ; 
stir  ii  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon,  aikling 


MADE  DISHES. 

{hereto  a  (ablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup^,  the 
same  of  browning',  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  black  pep- 
per :  dish  jour  steaks,  and  strain  your  sauce  to 
them.  Veal  cudels  or  mutton  chops  may  bo  done 
the  same  way. 

Obs.  —  Rump  steaks  are  in  best  condition  from 
Michaelmas  to  Lady-day.  To  ensure  their  being 
tender,  give  the  butcher  three  or  four  days'  notice 
of  your  wish  for  them. 

llitmp  Steak  zvith  Onion  Gravy.    (No.  .501.) 

Peel  and  slice  two  large  onions  ;  put  them  into  a 
quart  stewpan  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  water; 
cover  the  stewpan  close,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire 
till  the  water  has  boiled  away,  and  the  onions 
have  got  a  little  browned,  then  add  half  a  pint  of 
good  brotli  *,  and  boil  the  onions  till  they  are 
quite  tender;  strain  the  broth  from  them,  and 
chop  them  very  hue  ;  thicken  the  broth  with  flour 
and  butter,  and  season  it  with  mushroom  catsup, 
and  pepper  and  salt  ;  put  tlie  oiiion  into  it,  and 
let  it  boil  gently  for  five  minutes,  and  pour  ii  over 
a  broiled  rump  steak.  If  instead  of  broth  you  iis& 
good  beef  gravy  it  will  be  superlative. 

„,%  Stewed  cucumbers,    'S'o.  135, /s  another  agreeable  variety 
in  t/te  dressing  (>f' rump  steaks. 

*  If  you  have  no  broth,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  just^ 
hcfore  you  give  it  tlie  hist  boil  up,  add  to  it  a  large  spoonful  of 
niubhrouui  catsup,  aud,  if  yoa  like,  tlie  same  q^uautity  of  port 

wuie. 


MADE  DISHES. 

ALAMODE  BEEF,  or   ENGLISH 
TURTLE.     (No.  502.) 

In  Ibc  hundred  and  fifteen  vo'unnes  on  cookeiy 
wc  digested  before  we  becrun  to  compose  this  work, 
we  couhl  not  find  one  receij)t  that  approached  any 
thing  like  to  an  accurate  description  of  the  way  in 
whicli  this  excellent  dish  ss  actually  dress -d 
in  the  best  alamode  b  ef  shops  ;  from  whence, 
of  course,  it  was  impossible  to  obtain  any  in- 
formation :  however,  after  all,  the  whole  of  the 
secret  seems  to  be  the  thickening  the  gravy  (of 
beef  that  has  been  very  slowly  stevved)  with  bread 
raspings,  and  tlavouriFig  it  with  bay  leaves. 

Take  about  six  pounds  of  the  clod  of  beef,  or 
the  sticking  piece  ;  cut  it  into  pieces  of  two  or 
three  pounds  each;   put  two  ounces  of  beef  drip- 
pings into  a  large  deep  stewpan  ;  as  soon  as  it  is 
quite  hot,  flour  j^our  meat,  put  it  into  the   stew- 
pan,  turn  it  often  till  it  is  a  light  brown,  then 
cover  it  with  boiling  water,  and  put  a  quart  over ; 
skim  it  when  it  boils,  and  then  put  in  a  largo 
onion,  and  half  a  pint  of  bread  raspings,  and  let 
it   stew    very   slowly   for   three   hours,  then  just 
crack   twelve  berries  of  black  pepper,    same  of 
allspice,     and    faur    cloves,    put    them    into    a 
linen   bag,  with   half  a  dozen  bay  leaves,   and  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  let  them  stew  an  hour 
longer  :   if  you  find  the  meat  suflicicntly  tender, 
lake  it  up  with   a  slice,  cut  it   into  quarter  of  a 
pound  pieces,  and  put  it  into  a  tureen,  and  pour 
the  soup  to  it. 

*»*  To  the  ab(n;e  many  cooks  add  an  ounce  of  champignons  ; 
hut  as  these  are  almost  ahcai/s  so  decat/ed,  and  sometimes  of 
deleterious  quality^  they  are  better  left  out. 


MADE  DISHES. 


To  pot  Beef,     (No.  503.) 

Take  llircc   pounds  of  lean  gravj  beef,  salt  it 
twelve  hours  with  hiilfii  pound  of  common  salt 
and  half  an  ounce   of  srilipefre  ;     cut  off  all  the 
skin  and  fit ;   cut  Ihc  lean  into  pound  pieces,  and 
put  it  into  an  earthen  pan,  or  stone  jar  that  will 
just  hold  it,  put  two  ounces  of  butter  on  the  top, 
then  cover  it  with  the  skin  and  fat  that  jou  cut  off, 
and  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  water;  cover  it  close 
with  white  paper,  and  tie  over  that,  strong  brown 
paper,  and  set  it  in  a   slow  oven  for  four  hours  ; 
"svhen  it  comes  from  the  oven,  pour  the  gravy  from 
it  into   a   basin,  throw  away   the  skins  and   fat, 
shred   it  fine,    moisten   it  with   the    gravy   you 
poured  from  the  meat,  and  pound  it  in  a  marble 
mortar  with  a  little  clarified   butter,  or,    what  is 
better,  some  beef  marrow,  till  it  is  as  fine  a  paste  as 
possible,    seasoning   it  (by  degrees    as    you  are 
beating  it,)  with   black  pepper  and  allspice,  or 
cloves  pounded,  and  grated  nutmeg;  put  it  in  pots 
close  as   possible  ;  set  it  in  an  oven   for   a  few 
minutes,  to  make  it  set  smooth  in  Wxg  pot;  take  it 
out,  and  when  it  is  quite  cold,  cover  it  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick  with  clarified  butter  ;  to  prepare 
which,  see  receipt,  No.  259. 

Obs.  — You  may  mince  half  a  pound  of  ham 
or  bacon,  or  a  few  anchovies,  and  pound  it  with 
the  meat,  with  a  glass  of  sherry,  or  some  force- 
meat, if  you  wish  to  have  it  very  savoury. 

Or, 
It  is  a  very  agreeable  and  economical  way  of 


MADE  DISHES. 

iisinsj  ihe  remains  of  a  large  joint  of  eillier  roasted 
or  boiled  beef,  veal,  or  ham,  to  mince  it,  and  beat 
it  in  a  mortar  with  the  seasoning,  &c.,  as  in  (be 
former  receipt. 

Obs.  —  Meat  that  has  been  boiled  down  for  gra- 
\'ies^  4c-  till  it  is  completely  drained  of  all 
lis  succulence,  beaten  in  a  mortar  with  salt  and 
spice,  will  make  as  good  potted  beef  as  if  it 
is  baked  till  its  moisture  is  quile  evaporated, 
which  it  must  be,  or  it  ^vill  not  keep  tv/o  dajs. 

Beefcakes.     (No.  504.) 

If  you  have  any  cold  roast  beef  that  is  under- 
done, mince  it  fine,  and  then  pound  it  in  a  marble 
mortar  with  a  little  fat  bacon  or  ham  ;  season  it 
"with  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  mix  them  well,  and 
make  it  into  small  cakes  three  inches  long,  half  as 
wide,  and  half  an  inch  thick  :  fry  these  a  light 
brown,  and  serve  them  with  good  gravy. 

Bubble  and  Squeak,  cr  fried  Beef  and 
Cabbage.      (No.  50.5.) 

For  this,  as  for  a  hash,  select  those  parts  of  the 
joint  that  have  been  least  done  ;  cut  slices  of  cold 
boiled  salted  beef,  sprinkle  them  with  a  little 
pepper,  and  just  give  them  a  brown  with  a  bit  of 
butter  in  a  fryingpan  :  if  it  is  fried  too  much  it 
will  be  hard.  Boil  a  cabbage,  squeeze  it  quite 
dry,  and  chop  it  small ;  take  the  beef  out  of  the 
fryingpan,  and  lay  the  cabbage  in  it;  sprinkle  a 
little  pepper  and  salt  over  it ;  keep  the  pan 
moving  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes ;  lay  the 
meat  in  the  middle  of  a  dish,  and  the  cabbage 
round  it. 


MADE  DISHES. 

Hash  Beef  ami  Roast  Beef  Bones  Broiled. 
(No.  506!) 

To  hash  beef,  see  Receipt  to  Iiasb  mutton. 

Tlie  best  part  to  hash  is  the  fillet  or  inside  of  the 
sirloin,  and  the  good  hollse^vife  will  always  endea- 
vour to  preserve  tliis  entire  for  this  purpose. 

Koast  beef  bones  fLlrni^Il  a  very  relishing  lun- 
clieon,  prepared  in  the  following  manner. 

Divide  the  bones,  leaving  good  picking  of  meat 
on  each ;  score  them  in  squares,  pour  some  melted 
butter  on  them,  and  pepper  and  salt;  put  thera 
in  a  dish,  and  set  them  in  a  Dutch  oven,  and  give 
them  a  brown  on  the  gridiron. 

0.v-Cheek  Staved.   (No.  507.) 

If  convenient,  prepare  this  the  day  before  it  is 
to  be  eaten  ;  clea4)se  it,  and  put  it  to  soak  all  night 
in  salt  and  water ;  next  day  wipe  it  clean,  and 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  two  quarts  of  water  and 
a  pint  of  table-beer  that  is  neither  bitter  nor  stale  ; 
skim  it  well  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  and  let  it 
simmer  for  two  hours :  slice  a  couple  of  onions, 
fry  them  brown  in  a  little  butter  and  flour,  and 
put  them  into  the  soup,  with  two  whole  onions 
with  a  clove  in  each,  three  turnips  quartered,  a 
couple  of  carrots  sliced,  a  bay  leaf,  a  head  of 
celery,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  pepper  and 
salt ;  let  it  stew  till  perfectly  tender,  take  out  the 
cheek,  divide  it  into  handsome  pieces;  skim  and 
strain  the  gravy,  and  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of 
basil  or  elder  vinegar,  the  like  quantity  of  mush- 
room or  walnut  catsup,  and  the  same  of  browning. 

Serve  up  in  a  soup  or  ragout  dish. 

Ohs.  —  This  is  a  very  economical,  nourishing, 
and  savoury  meal. 


51 ADE  DISHES. 


Ox-Tails  Stewed,     (No.  508.) 

Having  cut  tliem  into  joints,  wash  tbem,  par- 
boil tiicni,  and  set  them  on  to  stew  in  just  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  and  dress  them  in  the  same 
manner  as  we  have  directed,  in  No.  531,  Stewed 
Gibletsj  for  which  they  are  an  excellent  substitute. 

Potted  Ham,     (No.  509.) 

Cut  a  pound  of  the  lean  of  cold  boiled  ham  ; 
cut  it  small  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  little 
fresh  butter,  in  the  proportion  of  an  ounce  to  a 
pound,  till  it  is  a  very  tine  paste,  seasoning  it  by 
degrees  witli  a  little  pounded  mace  or  grated  nut- 
meg; put  it  close  down  in  pots  for  that  purpose, 
and  cover  it  Avith  clarified  butter  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick ;  let  it  stand  one  night  in  a  cool  place. 
Send  it  up  in  the  pot,  or  cut  out  in  thin  slices. 

s.%  A  couple  of  ounces  of  the  fat  of  the  ham  are  quite  as  good 
as  butter  to  mix  zcith  it^  in  pounding. 


Marbled  Veal.     (No.  5 10.) 

Boil  a  neat's  tongue  till  it  is  tender,  trim  off  all 
the  fat  and  bones,  and  cut  the  tongue  into  small 
pieces,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter,  till  it  is  very  fine  ;  j)ound  the  like 
quantity  or  dressed  veal  in  the  same  way  with 
black  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;; 
when  the  veal  is  pounded  very  fine,  lay  part  of  it 
in  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  pan,   stick  the  tongue 


IMADE    DISHES. 

in  lumps  upon  the  veal,  not  in  any  shapes,  the 
more  careless  the  belter,  as  it  will  look  better 
Avhen  it  is  cut  out ;  then  put  another  layer  of  the 
veal  on  the  tongue,  and  press  it  clown  close  ;  cover 
it  with  clarified  butter  ;  send  it  to  table  cut  into 
thin  slices,  and  garnished  with  sprigs  of  curled 
parsley. 

Minced  Veal     (No.  5\\) 

Mince  ready  dressed  veal  as  fine  as  possible, 
])ut  do  not  chop  it  ;  put  it  into  a  stcwpan  with  a 
few  spoonsful  of  veal  or  mutton  broth,  a  little 
lemon-peel  minced  fine,  a  spoonful  of  milk  or 
cream  :  thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  and  season 
it  with  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  or 
catsup. 

**■*  //*5/0M  have  no  cream,  heat  up  the  yolks  of  a  couple  of 
eggs  with  a  little  water  ;  garnish  with  sippets. 


2o  viake  an  excellent  hot  dish  of  cold  Veal. 
(No.  512.) 

Either  a  neck,  loin,  or  fillet  of  veal  will  fur- 
nish an  excellent  ragout  with  very  little  expense 
or  trouble. 

Cut  your  veal  into  handsome  cutlets ;  put  a 
piece  of  butter  or  clean  dripping  into  a  fry- 
ingpan ;  as  soon  as  it  is  hot  flour  and  fry  your 
veal  of  a  light  brown ;  take  it  out,  and  if  you 
have  no  gravy  ready,  put  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
into  the  fryingpan,  give  it  a  boil  up  for  a  minute, 
and  strain  it  into  ^  basin  while  you  make  some 
Q 


Made  dishes. 

iliickening  in  tlie  following  manner  :  put  about  nu 
ounce  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  as  soon  as  it  looks 
a  little  brown  mix  with  it  as  much  flour  as  will  dry 
it  up  ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
gradually  add  to  it  the  gravy  you  made  in  the 
fryingpan  ;  let  them  simmer  together  for  ten 
minutes  till  thoroughly  incorporated ;  season  it 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  mace,  and  a  wine 
glass  of  mushroom  catsup ;  strain  it  through  a 
tammis  to  the  meat :  when  the  meat  is  thoroughly 
warmed  it  is  enough. 


Veal  Sweetbread  Fricasshe,  xvhite,  (No.  5 1 3.) 

Parboil  it  for  ten  minutes  in  a  little  more 
water  than  will  just  cover  it,  with  some  salt, 
white  pepper,  and  a  blade  of  pounded  mace;  then 
cut  it  into  slices  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  add  to  the  liquor  an  ounce  of  butter, 
and  two  teaspoonsful  of  flour :  keep  this  over 
the  fire,  shaking  it  well  till  these  ingredients  are 
well  mixed  ;  put  in  the  sweetbread  again,  let  it 
stew  very  gently  till  it  is  done  enough,  and  the 
sauce  is  properly  thickened,  then  beat  up  a 
couple  of  yolks  of  eggs  with  a  glass  of  white  wine  ; 
add  this  to  your  sauce,  stir  it  together,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil.     Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 


If  you  prefer  a  Fricassee  brcnvn,   (No.  514.) 

Fry  the  sweetbreads  brown  in  a  little  butter, 
then  put  tliem  on  to  stew,  and  finish  them  as 
above,  leaving  out  the  eggs ;  if  you  wish  it  to 


MADE  DISHES. 

be  more  savoury,  add  an  onion,  or  eshallot,  witk 
a  tablespoonful  of  browning,  and  one  of  catsup, 
cavice,  or  lemon  pickle. 

%*  For   three  other  receipts  to  dress    szoeetbreads,    see 
No.  88;  4'C'  chapter  on  frying. 

Breast  of  Veal  Stewed.     (No.  5 1 5.) 

A  breast  of  veal  stewed  till  quite  tender,  and 
smothered  with  onion  sauce,  is  an  excellent  dish. 

Stewed  Veal  a7id  Bacon.     (No.  516.) 

Have  a  piece  of  fillet  of  veal  of  four  or  five 
pounds  ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  bacon,  a  pint  of  water,  two  carrots,  a 
faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  with  half  a  dozen  spring 
onions,  some  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  three  cloves; 
when  it  boils,  skim  it,  and  put  it  on  a  very  slow 
fire  to  simmer  gently  for  four  hours  :  thicken  it 
with  some  flour,  and  take  out  the  bundle  of  herbs 
when  you  dish  it. 

Breast  of  Veal  Ragout,     (No.  5 1 7.) 

Take  off  the  under  bone,  and  cut  the  breast 
in  half,  lengthways ;  divide  it  into  pieces  four 
inches  long  by  two  inches  wide,  so  that  they  may 
be  in  handsome  pieces,  but  not  too  large  to  help 
at  once :  put  about  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a 
fryingpan,  and  fry  the  veal  till  it  is  a  fine  brown  ; 
then  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  veal  broth,  if  you 
have  it,  or  else  as  much  boiling  water  as  will 
cover  it,  a  small  bundle  of  sweet  marjoram,  cora- 
^o\\  or  lemon-thyme,  and  parsley,  with  a  couple  of 
q2 


MADE  riSIIES. 

cloves,  and  a  couple  of  blades  of  pounded  mace, 
three  younjy  onions,  or  one  old  one  as  h\^  as  a 
walnut,  a  roll  of  lemon-peel,  half  a  dozen  corns  of 
allspice  bruised,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sah  ;  cover 
it  close,  and  let  it  all  simmer  very  gently  for  two 
hours  and  a  half;  then  take  out  the  meat  with  a 
slice;  and  to  thicken  the  gravj^,  put  an  ounce  of 
butter  into  a  stewpan,  with  two  tablespoonsful  of 
flour;  stir  well  tosjether  for  five  minutes,  and 
mix  the  i^ravy  with  it ;  boil  ten  minutes,  skim  it 
well,  and  put  in  the  meat  to  warm  up:  season  it 
with  two  tablespoonsful  of  white  wine,  and  one  of 
mushroom  catsup :  cover  the  pan  close,  to  confine 
the  steam,  and  let  it  stew  gently  half  an  hour 
longer,  till  there  is  just  sufficient  gravy  to  cover 
the  meat  Mhen  put  in  the  dish  :  lay  the  veal  in  a 
ragout  dish,  and  squeeze  halfalenion  into  the  sauce. 

Obs.  —  ForceiBcat-bails^  truffles,  &C.5  are  some- 
times added. 

Veal  Olives.     (No.  518.) 

Cut  half  a  dozen  slices  off  a  fillet  of  veal,  half 
an  inch  thick,  and  as  long  and  square  as  you  can  ; 
flat  them  with  a  chopper,  and  rub  them  over  with 
an  eg^  that  has  been  lieat  on  a  plate;  cut  some 
fat  ba<x>H  as  thin  as  possible,  the  sanae  size  as  the 
veal;  lay  it  on  the  veal,  and  rub  it  with  a  little  of 
the  egg :  make  a  little  veal  forcemeat,  (see  re- 
ceipt, No.  375,)  a;Qd  spread  it  very  thin  over  the 
bacon.;  roll  upthe  olives  tight,  and  tie  them  with 
^  bit  of  twine;  rub  thera  with  the  eg^f  and  then 
r-oll  them  in  fine  bread  crumbs :  put  them  on  a 
lark  spit,  and  roast  them,  at  a  brisk  &e  :  they  will 
iakjo  thi:ee  quarters  of  an  hour. 


MADE  DISHES. 

Mushroom  sauce  brown,   or  truffle  sauce,  or 
beef  gravy.     V^ide  chapter  ou  sauces,  &c. 

Cold  Calfs  Head,  Hashed.     (No.  5 1 9-) 
See  Obs.  to  boil  calf's  head,  No.  10. 

Calfs  Head  Hashed,  or  Ragout,    (No.  520.) 

Wash  a  calf's  head  tliat  has  been  skinned,  and 
boil  the  half  you  intend  to  hash  for  fifteen 
minutes  ;  the  other  half  an  hour,  or,  if  it  is  large, 
give  it  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  longer:  when 
quite  tender,  take  out  all  the  brains  you  can  :  beat 
up  an  Qgg  on  a  plate,  and  put  this  all  over  it  with 
a  paste  brush,  and  strew  over  it  thyme  and  pars- 
ley in  fine  powder,  then  bread  crumbs,  and  put  it 
in  the  Dutch  oven  to  brown.  Cut  the  other  half 
head  into  slices,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
quart  of  gravy.  No.  329,  and  let  it  simmer  for 
three  qu  rters  of  an  hour  :  take  up  the  meat  with 
a  slice,  and  strain  the  gravy  into  a  clean  stewpun 
with  forcemeat-balls.  No"!  S76,  380,  egg-balls, 
and  a  wineglass  of  white  wine  ;  put  in  the  meat, 
and  let  it  warm  up  together,  and  skim  oflP  the  fat. 

Beat  up  the  brains  in  a  basin  with  a  spoonful  of 
flour,  two  eggs,  lemon  peel,  thyme,  parsley,  and  a 
few  leaves  of  sage;  chop  all  fine,  and  mix  well 
together  with  pepper,  S£ilt,  and  a  scrape  of  nut- 
meg :  fry  tliem  in  little  cakes,  of  a  very  light 
brown;  disli  up  your  hash,  with  the  half  head 
you  browr.ed  in  the  middle,  and  garnish  with 
crisp  curled  rashers  of  bacon,  and  the  brain  cakes. 

*«*   Tvufflca  and  morels  are  frequently  added  to  ihh. 


MADE  DISHES. 


Veal  Cutlets  Broiled.     (No.  52 1 .) 

Divide  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  veal  in(o  cut- 
le(s,  one  rib  to  eacli ;  make  a  few  fine  bread 
crumbs,  mince  a  little  parsley  and  a  very  little 
shallot  as  small  as  possible  ;  put  it  into  a  clean 
stevvpan  with  two  ounces  of  butter;  fry  it  for  a 
minute,  then  put  it  on  a  plate  to  cool :  when  cold, 
mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  it,  and  season  it 
with  pepper  and  salt :  dip  the  cutlets  into  this 
mixture,  and  then  into  the  bread ;  lay  them  on  a 
gridiron  over  a  clear  slow  fire;  they  will  take  a 
quarter  of  an  hour :  send  up  with  them  a  few 
slices  of  bacon  fried,  or  done  in  the  Dutch  oven. 

Knuckle  of  Veal,  to  ragout,     (No.  522.) 

Cut  a  knuckle  of  veal  into  slices  about  half  an 
inch  thick;  pepper,  salt,  and  flour  them;  fry 
them  a  light  brown  ;  put  the  trimmings  into  a 
stew  pan,  with  the  bone  broke  in  several  places  ; 
an  onion  sliced  ;  a  head  of  celery ;  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  and  three  blades  of  bruised  mace: 
pour  in  warm  ^vater  enough  to  cover  it  about  an 
inch  :  cover  your  pot  close,  and  let  it  stew  very 
gently  for  a  couple  of  hours  :  thicken  it  with  flour 
and  butter;  put  in  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  a  glass  of 
wine,  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  give  it  a  boil 
lip,  and  strain  into  a  clean  stewpan  :  put  in  the 
meat  and  make  it  hot,  and  serve  up. 

065.  — J  f  celery  is  not  to  be  had,  use  a  carrot 
instead. 


>iADE  DISHES. 


KnucJde  of  Veal   Stewed  with    Rice, 
(No.  59.S.) 

As  boiled  knuckle  of  veal  cold  is  not  a  very 
favourite  relish  with  the  generality,  cut  oiT  some 
steaks  from  it,  which  you  may  dress  as  in  the 
foregoing  receipt,  and  leave  the  knuckle  no 
larger  than  will  be  eaten  the  day  it  is  dressed. 
Break  the  shank  bone,  wash  it  clean,  and  put  it 
in  a  large  stewpan  with  two  quarts  o^  water,  one 
onion,  two  blades  of  mace,,  and  a  teaspooiiful  of 
salt :  set  it  on  a  quick  fire  ;  v/hen  it  boils,  take  olF 
all  the  scum  :  wash  and  pick  a  pound  of  rice,  and 
put  it  into  the  stewpan  with  the  meat,  and  let  it 
st$w  very  gently  for  two  hours  :  put  the  meat, 
&c.  in  a  deep  disli,  and  the  rice  round  it. 

Send  up  bacon  with  it,  p  irsnips,  or  greens,  and 
finely  minced  parsley  and  butter. 

Mr.  Gay's  Receipt  to  Stezv  a  Knuckle  of 
Veal,     (No.  524.) 

Take  a  knuckle  of  veal; 
You  may  buy  it,  or  steal; 
In  a  few  pieces  cut  it, 
In  a  stewingpan  put  it; 
Salt,  pepper,  and  mace, 

Must  season  tliis  knuckle  ; 
Then,  what's  join'd  to  a  place* 

With  other  lierbs  niuckle; 
That  which  kill'd  King  Will  t, 
And  what  never  stands  still  | ; 


Vuigo,  salary.  t  Supposed  sorrel. 

This  is,  by  Dr.  Bentley,  thought  to  be  time,  or  thyni^, 
Q  4; 


MAD£  DISHES. 

^ome  sprigs  of  that  bed  * 
"Where  children  are  bred, 
Which  much  yon  will  mend,  if 
Both  spinrige  and  endive, 
And  lettuce  and  beet, 
With  mar^'gold  meet. 
Put  j;o  water  at  all, 
Tor  it  niaketh  things  small, 
Which,  lest  it  should  happen, 
A  close  cover  clap  on  : 
Put  this  pot  of  Wood's  metal  f 
In  a  boiling  hot  kettle; 
And  there  let  it  be, 

(Mark  the  doctrine  I  tench,) 
About,  let  me  see, 

Thrice  as  long  as  you  preacli  J» 
So  bkimminj;  the  fat  off, 
Say  grace  with  your  liat  off, 
O!  then  with  v^  hat  rapture 
Will  it  fill  Dean  and  Chapter  ! 


Lamb's  Head  and  Pluck.    (No.  525.) 

Clean  nnd  wash  alnmVs  Lend  well,  and  boil  \i 
an  hour  and  a  half:  take  it  up,  nrul  rub  it  over 
Avitl)  a  paste  brush  dipped  in  e«^g  mcU  beaten; 
stiev/  over  it  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and 
some  fine  bread  crumbs:  lay  it  in  a  dish  before 
the  fire,  or  in  a  Dutch  oven  to  })rown  :  "vvhen  it 
begins  to  get  dry,  put  some  melted  butter  on  it 
with  a  paste  brush-:  mince  the  heart,  liver,  and 
the  tongue  very  fine;  put  them  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  little  of  the  liquor  the  head  was  boiled  in, 
and  an  ounce  of  butter,  well  mixed  with  half  a 

'Parsley.     Vide  Ciiamberlayxe. 

t  Of  this  composition,  see  the  works  of  the  copper  farthing 
dean. 
X  Which  weiuppose  to  be  near  four  hours. 


MADE  DISHES. 

tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  little  pepper  and  salt  > 
set  it  on  a  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes.  Squeeze 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  into  a  disli,  lay  in  the 
mince,  ^viih  the  head  upon  it,  and  i^arnish  it  with 
relishing  rashers  of  bacon.     See  receipt.  No.  527. 

Slices  of  Ham  or  Bacon,     (No.  526.) 

Slices  of  ham,  or  bacon,  may  be  broiled  on  a 
gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  or  toasted  ^vith  a  fork  : 
if  you  wish  it  curled,  cut  it  thin,  curl  it,  and  put 
it  on  an  iron  skewer  in  a  cheese-toaster,  or  Dntcli 
oven,  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  turning  it  as 
it  gets  crisp. 

Relishing  Rashers  of  Bacon.     (No.  527.) 

If  you  have  any  cold  bacon  in  the  larder,  you 
may  make  a  very  nice  dish  of  it  by  cutting  it 
into  slices  rather  more  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick  ;  grate  some  crust  of  bread,  and  powder 
them  well  with  it  on  both  sides ;  lay  the  rashers 
in  a  cheese-toaster :  they  will  be  browned  on  one 
side  in  about  three  minutes ;  then  turn  them  and 
do  the  other. 

\  Ohs.  —  These  are  a  delicious  accompaniment 
to  poached  or  fried  eggs :  the  bacon,  from  hav- 
ing been  boiled  *  first,  eats  extremely  tender  and 
mellow.  They  are  a  very  excellent  garnish 
round  veal  cutlets,  or  calf'shead  hash,  or  green 
pease,  or  beans. 

*  To  boll  bacon,  see  No.  13. 

q5 


MADE  DISHES. 


Hashed  Venison,     (No.  528.) 

If  you  have  enough  of  its  own  gravy  left,  it. is 
preferable  to  any  to  warm  it  up  in  :  if  not,  take  a 
pint  of  mutton  gravy.  No.  347,  or  the  bones  and 
trimmings  of  the  joint,  (after  you  have  cut  off  all 
the  handsome  slices  you  can,  to  make  the  hash  ;) 
put  these  into  a  pint  of  water,  and  stew  them 
gently  for  an  hour  :  put  a  bit  of  butter  in  another 
stewpan,  about  as  big  as  a  walnut:  when  melted, 
put  to  it  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  up  the  butter, 
and  stir  it  well  together ;  add  to  it,  by  degrees, 
the  gravy  you  have  been  making  of  the  trim- 
mings, give  it  a  boil  up,  skim  it,  and  strain  it 
through  a  sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to  receive  tJie 
venison  :  put  it  in,  and  let  it  just  get  warm :  do 
not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  make  the  meat  hard. 

Jugged  Hare.     (No.  59.9^ 

Wash  it  very  nicely,  cut  it  up  into  such  pieces 
as  you  would  help  at  table,  and  put  it  into  a  stone 
jar*,  sufficiently  large  to  well  hold  it,  lining  the 
bottom  of  the  jar  with  a  couple  of  ounces  of 
bacon  :  put  in  some  sweet  herbs,  a  roll  or  two  of 
rind  of  lemon,  or  Seville  orange,  and  a  fine  large 
onion   with  five   cloves  stuck  in    it,    a    quarter 

»  Meat  dressed  by  the  beat  of  boiling  water,  without  being 
exposed  to  it,  is  a  mode  of  cookery  that  deserves  to  be  more 
generally  employed  :  it  is  deliciously  stewed,  and  tlie  whole  of 
the  nourishment  and  gravy  are  preserved.  This,  in  chemical 
technicals,  is  called  a  Water  Bath  :  in  culinary.  Bain  Marie  t 
which  A.  CiiAPPELLE,  in  his  "  Modern  Cook,"  8vo.  page  25, 
lendon,  1744,  translates,  "  Mary's  Bath." 


MADE  DISHES. 

pint  of  red  wine,  and  the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange 
or  large  lemon  :  tie  the  jar  down  closely  with  a 
bladder,  so  that  no  steam  can  escape ;  put  a  little 
hay  in  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan,  in  which  place 
the  jar,  and  pour  in  water  till  it  reaches  within 
three  inches  of  the  top  of  the  jar;  let  the  water 
boil  for  four  or  five  hours,  according  to  the  age 
and  size  of  the  hare,  keeping  it  boiling  all  the 
time,  and  fill  up  the  pot  as  it  boils  away.  When 
quite  tender,  strain  off  the  gravy,  (of  which  there 
will  be  found  a  good  quantity,  although  no  water 
was  put  in  the  jar,)  clear  it  from  fat,  and  thicken 
it  with  flour  and  butter,  and  give  it  a  boil  up : 
lay  your  hare  in  a  soup-dish,  and  pour  the  gravy 
to  it. 

Obs. — You  may  make  a  pudding,  the  same  as 
for  roast  hare,  and  boil  it  in  a  cloth ;  and  when 
you  dish  up  your  hare,  cut  your  pudding  in 
slices,  and  lay  round  it  for  garnish. 

Hashed  Ducks  or  Geese.     (No.  530.) 

Cut  an  onion  into  small  dice  ;  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  little  bit  of  butter ;  fry  it,  but  do  not 
let  it  ^ei  any  colour :  put  as  much  boiling  water 
into  the  stewpan  as  will  make  sauce  for  the  hash  ; 
thicken  it  with  a  little  flour  and  butter ;  cut  up 
the  duck,  and  put  it  into  tlie  sauce  ;  do  not  let  it 
boil  j  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Stewed  Giblets,     (No.  531.) 

Clean  two  sets  of  giblets,  as  in  the  receipt  for 
giblet  soup  J  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  two 


MADE  DISHES. 

quarts  of  cold  water;  set  them  on  tlie  fire;  when 
they  boil,  take  off  the  scum,  and  season  them 
>vitli  an  onion,  three  cloves,  two  blades  of  mace, 
four  berries  of  black  pepper,  the  same  of  allspice, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt :  cover  the  slewpan 
close,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently  till  the  i»'iblets 
are  quite  tender :  this  will  take  about  two  hours 
and  a  half:  watch  them  that  they  do  not  get  too 
ranch  done  :  take  them  out,  and  thicken  the  sauce 
with  flour  and  butter;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  or 
till  there  is  just  enough  io  eat  with  them;  and 
then  strain  it  through  a  tammis  into  a  clean  stew- 
pan  :  cut  the  giblets  into  mouthfuls,  put  them 
into  the  sauce,  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup  :  pour  the 
'whole  into  a  soup  dish,  with  sippets  of  bread  at  the 
bottom. 

Obs.  —  Ox-tails  prepared  in  the  same  way  are 
excellent  eating. 

Hashed  IFoodcock,     (No.  552.) 

Cut  off  the  breasts,  legs,  and  wings  of  ready 
feasted  birds ;  lay  them  on  the  dish  you  intend 
sending  to  table  ;  cover  it  with  another  dish,  and 
Bet  it  over  a  saucepan  of  hot  water :  pound  the 
bones  and  inside  in  a  mortar,  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  and  a  little 
broth,  thickened  with  halfa  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  a  bit  of 
shallot  chopped  fine ;  season  it  with  Cayenne  pep- 
per, and  salt :  when  it  has  boiled  a  quarter  of  an 
Lour,  and  there  only  remains  liquor  enough  for 
«auce,  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  over  the 
birds  in  the  dish  ;  garniih  with  fried  sippets. 


MADE  DISHES. 


Hashed  Turkey,  Fozvl,  or  Chicken.  (No.  533) 

Cut  them  upas  for  a  fricassee,  and  lay  them  at 
the  bottom  of  a  stewpari  ;  into  another  stewpaii 
put  slices  of  bacon,  the  trimmings  and  bones  of 
the  fowl,  a  piece  of  butter  as  biii^  as  an  egs:,  a 
tablespoonful  of  Hour,  a  minced  onion  or  eshallot,  a 
bundh?  of  sweet  hcrl>s,  a  roll  oflemon-peel,  a  blade 
of  bruised  mace,  and  half  a  dozen  pepper  corns: 
cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stew  for  ten  minutes  ; 
then  add  half  a  pint  of  warm  water,  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  browning-,  one  of  lemon  pickle,  and  one  of 
catsup,  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  lemon-juice  :  give 
it  a  boil  up  for  a  few  minutes^  and  run  it  throufijli 
a  tine  hair  sieve  into  the  stewpan  containing  th« 
meat  of  the  fowl,  &c. ;  let  it  simmer  till  it  is  warm, 
and  serve  it  up.  Do  not  let  the  sauce  boil  after 
you  have  put  it  to  the  fowl. 

Pulled  Turkey,  Fowl,  or  Chicken,  (No.  534.) 

Take  off  the  skin  af  a  cold  chicken,  fowl,  or 
turkey;  take  off  the  fillets  from  ihe  breasts,  and 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  the  rest  of  the  white 
meat  and  wings,  side-bones,  and  merrythought, 
with  half  a  pint  of  water,  two  tablespoonsful  of 
table-beer,  and  one  of  port  wine  ;  a  large  blade 
of  mace  pounded,  a  shallot  minced  fine,  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  and  peel  of  a  quarter,  some  salt, 
and  a  fev/  grains  of  Cayenne  ;  thicken  it  with  flour 
and  butter,  and  let  it  simmer  for  two  or  three 
minutes,  till  the  meat  is  warm.  In  the  meantime, 
score  the  legs  and  rump,  powder  them  with  pep- 


MADE  DISHES. 

per  and  salt,  broil  them  nicely  brown,   and  lay 
Ihem  on  or  round  your  pulled  chicken. 

Obs.  —  Three  tablespoonsful  of  good  cream  will 
be  a  great  improvement  to  it. 

To  Dress  Cold  Fowl,  Duck,  Pigeon,  or 
Rabbit,     (No.  535) 

Cut  them  in  quarters,  beat  up  an  egg  or  two 
(according  to  the  quantity  you  dress,)  with  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  and  pepper  and  salt,  some  pars- 
ley minced  fine,  and  a  few  crumbs  of  bread  ;  mix 
these  well  together,  and  cover  your  fowl,  &c. 
•with  this  batter ;  have  ready  some  dripping  hot 
in  a  pan,  in  which  fry  them  a  light  brown  colour ; 
thicken  a  little  grav}^  with  some  flour,  put  a 
large  spoonful  of  catsup  to  it,  lay  the  fry  in  a  dish, 
and  pour  the  sauce  round  it.  You  may  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon. 

Fricasshc  of  Chickens  with  Mushrooms, 
(No.  536.) 

Singe  and  clean  two  young  chickens,  cut 
off  their  legs  close  to  the  thigh-bone,  cut 
off  the  thighs  and  wings,  and  divide  the  breast 
into  two  pieces,  put  them  into  a  two  quart 
stewpan  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  let  them 
boil  gently  half  an  hour  with  a  few  of  tke 
worst  looking  mushrooms  you  have,  two  or  three 
sprigs  of  parsley,  two  young  onions,  and  two 
blades  of  mace.  While  the  chickens  are  boiling^ 
clean  half  a  pint  of  the  smallest  and  whitest  mush- 
rooms you  can  get  with  a  flannel,  and  some  lemon 


MADE  DISHES. 

juice  and  water.  When  the  cliickens  are  done, 
take  them  out  and  put  them  into  cold  water  ; 
thicken  the  liquor  they  were  stewed  in  with  some 
flour  and  butter,  boil  it  ten  minutes,  and  strain 
it  through  a  tammis  into  a  clean  stewpan  ;  put  in 
the  mushrooms,  trim  your  chickens  neatly,  and 
put  them  into  the  sauce  with  some  good  cream  ; 
make  it  hot,  and  add  two  yolks  of  eggs  mixed 
witli  a  little  cream,  and  season  it  with  a  little  salt. 
Do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  eggs  are  put  in. 

Obs.  —  Pigeons,  or  rabbits,  tripe,  and  sweet- 
breads, are  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

Fricassee  of  Chicken  in  a  Minute.  (No.  537.) 

Cut  a  cliickcn  in  pieces;  put  two  ounces  of 
butter  into  a  stewpan  ;  when  melted,  put  your 
chicken  into  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  bay  leaf, 
and  mushrooms  :  when  your  chicken  is  firm,  add 
two  spoonsful  of  flour,  and  stir  it  well  together; 
when  well  mixed,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  broth  or 
water,  stir  it,  and  at  the  first  boil  take  it  olF  the 
fire ;  break  four  eggs,  mix  the  yolks  with  two 
spoonsful  of  cream,  put  it  to  your  chickens,  stir  it 
together  on  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  as  it  will 
curdle.     When  you  dish,  take  out  the  bay  leaf. 

Devil.     (No.  538.) 

The  gizzard  and  rump  of  a  dressed  turkey,  or 
the  rurnp  of  a  goose,  taken  from  the  bird,  and 
scored,  and  well  peppered  and  salted,  and  broiled, 
and  sent  up  for  a  relish,  and  being  made  very 
hot,  ha§  obtained  the  name  of  a  "  devil.'' 


MADE  DISHES. 


Tcast  and  Cheese,     (No.  5^9^ 

*'  H;ippy  the  man  tliat  liaseacli  fortune  tried, 

To  whom  sLe  much  has  ^iven,  and  much  denied  j 

With  abstinence  all  deUcates  he  sees, 

Aiul  can  regale  liimself  on  toast  and  cheese,'' 

TLi:!iG^'i  Art  of  Cookery. 

Cut  a  slice  of  bread  about  half  an  inch  tliick, 
pare  otf  the  crust,  and  toast  it  very  sliglitly  on 
both  sides,  so  as  just  to  brown  it,  without  making 
it  hard,  or  buniing  it.  Cut  a  slice  of  cheese 
fgood  fat  nicUow  Cheshire  cheese,  or  double  Glos- 
ter,  is  much  belter  than  poor,  thin  sijigle  GIcs- 
ter,)  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  not  so  big  as  the 
bread  by  half  an  inch  on  each  side;  pare  off  the 
rind,  cut  out  all  the  specks  and  rotten  parts  *, 
and  lay  it  on  the  toasted  bread  in  a  cheese-toaster ; 
carefully  watch  it,  that  it  does  not  burn,  and  stir 
it  with  a  spoon,  to  prevent  a  pellicle  forming  on 
the  surfocc.     Have  ready  good  mustard. 

Ohs. — One  would  think  notliing  can  be  easier 
(lian  to  prepare  a  Welch  rabbit ;  and  yet,  not  only 
in  private  families,  but  at  taverns,  it  is  very  sel- 
dom sent  io  table  in  perfection. 

If  you  observe  the  directions  here  given,  the 
cheese  will  eat  mellow  and  uniformly  done,  and. 
the  bread  crisp  and  soft. 

Toasted  Cheese,  No.  2.   (No.  540.) 
We   have  nothing    to   add   to  the   directions 

*  Rotten  cheese  toasted,  is  the  ne  plus  ultra  o^  hunt  gout, 
and  only  eaten  by  the  thoruugh-bred  Gourmand  in  the  most 
inverted  state  of  his  jaded  appetite. 


MADE  DISHES. 

given  for  toasting  the  cheese  in  the  last  receipt, 
except  in  sending  it  up  :  it  will  save  much  time 
in  portioning  it  out  at  table,  if  you  have  half  a 
dozen  small  silver  or  tin  pans  to  lit  into  the 
cheese  toaster,  arid  do  the  cheese  in  these  :  each 
person  may  then  be  helped  to  a  separate  pan,  and 
it  will  keep  the  cheese  much  hotter  than  the 
usual  way  of  eating  it  on  a  cold  plate. 

Buttered  Toast  and  Cheese.   (No.  54 1 .) 

Prepare  a  round  of  toast ;  butter  it ;  grate  over 
it  good  Cheshire  cheese  about  half  the  thicLiiess 
of  the  toast,  and  give  it  a  brown, 

Potted  Cheese.    (No.  542.) 

To  a  pound  and  a  half  of  tine  rich  mellow  Cheshire 
cheese  add  two  ounces,  if  the  cheese  is  a  dry  one, 
three  ounces  of  good  fresh  butter;  pound  well 
together  in  a  marble  mortar,  and  add  by  degrees 
ludf  a  drachm  of  beaten  mace  or  nutmeg,  and  a 
tablespoonfnl  of  well  made  mustard ;  beat  the  in- 
gredients well  together  till  they  are  thoroughly- 
mixed,  and  put  them  into  pots  pressed  down 
hard,  and  covered  with  clarified  butter,  and  tied 
down  with  wetted  bladder. 

Keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Rajnaqubu     (No.  543.) 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Gloster  or  Cheshire 
cheese  pounded  in  a  mortar,  with  half^  an  ounce 
of  butter,  and  an  \^^^^. 


MADE  DISHES. 

Cut  a  slice  of  bread  half  an  inch  thick,  toast 
and  butter  it  a  liltle  on  both  sides ;  spread  th€ 
composition  on  it  half  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  it 
four  minutes  in  a  Dutch  oven  j  it  should  rise  an 
inch  iiiiih. 


Marrow  Bones.     (No.  544.) 

Saw  the  bones  even,  so  that  they  -svill  stand 
quite  steady  ;  put  a  piece  of  paste  into  the  ends  ; 
set  them  upright  in  a  saucepan,  and  boil  till  they 
are  (h)nc  enough.  Servo  toasted  bread  with 
them. 


Eggs  fried  mlh  Bacon.     (No.  545.) 

Lay  some  slices  of  fine  streaked  bacon  (not 
more  tliau  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick)  in  a  clean 
dish,  and  toast  tliem  before  the  fire  in  a  cheese 
toaster  :  first  ask  those  who  are  to  eat  the  bacon, 
if  they  wish  it  much  or  little  done,  i.  e.  curled 
and  crisp,  or  mellow  and  soft ;  if  the  latter,  par- 
boil it  first. 

\A  ell  cleansed  drippings,  or  lard,  are  better 
than  butter  to  fry  eggs.  Be  sure  your  fryingpan 
is  quite  clean  :  when  the  fat  is  hot,  break  two  or 
three  eggs  iiito  it ;  do  not  turn  them,  but,  while 
they  arc  frying,  keep  pouring  some  of  the  fat 
over  them  with  a  spoon  :  when  the  yolk  just  be- 
gins to  look  white,  which  it  w  ill  in  about  a  couple 
of  minutes,  they  are  enough  ;  the  white  must  not 
lose  its  transparency,  but  the  yolk  be  seen  blush- 
ing through   it:   take  them  up  \>ilh  a  tin  slice, 


3IADE  DISHES. 

drain  the  fat  from  them,  trim  them  neatly,  and 
send  them  up  with  the  bacon  round  them. 

To  Poach  Eggs,     (No.  546.) 

You  must  have  new  laid,  or  very  fresh  eggs, 
or  it  is  impossible  to  poach  them  nice :  don't 
put  any  vinegar  in  the  water,  as  it  will  harden 
the  white  of  the  egg,  and  quite  spoil  the  look  of 
it:  the  beauty  ot' a  poached  egg  is  to  have  the 
yolk  seen  through  the  white. 

Take  a  flat  open  stevvpan  half  full  of  boiling 
water;  you  may  put  in  two  eggs  at  the  same 
time,  boil  them  gently  for  two  minutes  ;  trim 
thejn,  and  send  them  up  on  a  toast*,  with  or 
without  butter ;  or  without  a  toast,  garnished 
with  streaked  bacon  nicely  fried,  s.lices  of  broiled 
beef  or  mutton,  anchovies,  or  pork  sausages. 

Obs. — The  bread  should  be  a  little  larger 
tlian  the  egg,  and  full  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  : 
oniy  just  give  it  a  fine  yellow  colour:  take  care 
not  to  toast  it  brown,  or  it  will  get  a  bitter  flavour  : 
if  you  do  not  butter  it,  it  is  usual  to  moisten  it  by 
pouring  a  little  hot  water  on  it,  and  some  add  a 
few  drops  of  vinegar  on  it. 

To  Boil  Eggs  in  the  Shell.    (No.  547.) 

Put  the  eggs  into  boiling  water;  if  you  like  the 
white  just  set,  two  miautes   is  enough;    if  you 

ti  *  Two  poached  eggs,  Avit!)  u  few  ("w^e  dry  fried  collops  of 
pure  bacon,  are  not  bad  for  bre;ikfast,  or  to  begin  a  meal," 
says  Sir  Kenelm  Dighy,  M.D.  in  his  Closet  of  Cooker f/, 
London,  1669,  page  1G7. 


MADE  DISHES. 

wish  the  yolk  to  be  set,  it  will  take  three  minutes 
and  a  half. 

Obs,  —  A  new  laid  egg"  will  not  require  boiling 
so  long  as  a  stale  one,  by  half  a  minute. 

Eggs  Poached  with  Sauce  of  minced  Ham. 
(No.  548.) 

Poach  the  eggs  as  before  directed,  and  take 
two  or  three  slices  of  boiled  ham,  n.ince  it  fifie, 
with  a  gherkin,  a  morsel  of  onion,  a  little  parsley, 
and  peppt^r  and  salt;  stew  all  (ogcllier  a  quarter 
of  an  hour;  serve  up  your  sauce  about  haif  boil- 
ing; put  the  eggs  in  a  dish,  squeeze  over  them 
the  juice  of  half  a  Seville  orange,  or  lemon,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

Fried  Eggs  and  minced  Bacon.     (No.  549.) 

Choose  some  very  fine  bacon,  streaked  with  a 
good  deal  of  lean  ;  cut  this  into  very  thin  slices, 
aV.d  afterwards  into  the  smallest  square  pieces ; 
throw  them  into  a  stewpan,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle 
fire,  that  they  may  lose  some  of  their  fat.  When  as 
much  as  will  freely  come  is  thus  melted  from  them, 
lay  them  on  a  warm  dish.  Put  into  a  stewpan  a 
ladleful  of  melted  bacon  or  lard  ;  sot  it  on  a  stove  ; 
put  in  about  a  dozen  of  the  small  pieces  of, the 
bacon,  then  stoop  the  stewpan  and  break  in  an 
egg.  JSianage  this  carefully,  and  the  egg  will 
presently  be  done;  it  will  be  very  round,  and  the 
little  dice  of  bacon  will  stick  to  it  all  over,  so 
that  it  will  make  a  very  pretty  appearance.  Take 
care  the  yolks  do  not  harden  ;  and  when  the  egg 


MADE  DISHES. 

is  thus  done,  lay  it  carefully  on  a  warm  disli,  and 
do  the  others. 

%*  They  reckon  683  ways  of  dressing  eggs  in  the  French 
kitchen  ;  we  hope  we  have  here  given  sufficient  "variety  for 
English  palates,  in  the  half  dozen  preceding  recei^s^ 


Egg  Tea.     (No.  550.) 

"  The  Jesuit  that  came  from  China,  A. D.  1664, 

told  Mr.  Waller,  that  to  a  pint  of  tea  they  fre-  , 

quently  take  the  yolks  of  two  new  laid  eggs,  and  j 

beat  thera  up  with  as  much  fine  sugar  as  is  suf-  j 

ficient  for  the  tea,  and  stir  all  well  together.     He  j 

also  informed  him  that  the  water  must  remain  upon  j 

the  tea  no  longer  than  while  you  can  say  the  ! 

*'  Miserere"  psalm  very  leisurely ;  you  have  then  ; 

only  the  spiritual  part  of  the  tea,  the  proportion  | 

of  which  to  the  water  must  be  about  a  drachm  to  a  i 

pint." — Sir  Kenelme  Digby's  Cookert/,  London,  ; 

1669,  page  167.  i 

Obs, — The  addition  of  the  egg  makes  the  tea  a  ; 

more  nutritious  and  substantial  meal  for  a  traveller. 

Suet  Pudding,  Wiggys  fVay.     (No.  551.)  1 

Suet,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  ;  flour,  three  table- 
spoonsful;  eggs,  two,  and  a  little  grated  ginger  ; 
milk,  half  a  pint.  Mince  the  suet  as  fine  as  pos-| 
sible,  roll  it  with  the  rolling  pin  so  as  to  mix  it; 
well  with  the  flour;  beat  up  the  eggs,  mix  themj 
with  the  milk,  and  then  mix  all  together ;  wet  yourj 
cloth  well  in  boiling  water,  flour  it,  and  tie  it  loose  ij 
boil  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  i 


DADE  DISHES. 

Yorkshire  Pudding  under  Roast  Meat. 
(No.  559..) 

This  jiudding  is  an  especially  excellent  accom- 
paniment to  a  sirloin  of  beef. 

Five  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  three  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk: 
beat  it  up  well,  and  take  care  it  is  not  lumpy; 
put  your  dish  under  the  meat,  and  let  the  drip- 
pings drop  into  it  till  it  is  quite  hot  and  well 
greased;  then  pour  in  your  baiter;  when  it  is 
brown  and  set,  then  turn  it,  so  as  both  sides 
may  be  brown  alike:  if  it  is  to  cut  firm,  it  will 
take  an  hour  and  a  half  at  a  good  fire. 

Plumb  Pudding.    (No.  55S.) 

Suet  chopped  fine,  six  ounces ;  malaga  raisins 
stoned,  six  ounces ;  currants  nicely  washed  and 
picked,  eight  ounces ;  bread  crumbs,  three  ounces ; 
flour,  three  ounces ;  eggs,  three ;  the  rind  of  half 
a  lemon  ;  sixth  of  a  nutmeg ;  small  blade  of  mace ; 
same  quantity  of  cinnamon  pounded  as  fine  as  pos- 
sible; half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt :  half  a  pint  of  milk,  or 
rather  less;  sugar,  four  ounces ;  to  which  may  be  ad- 
ded, candied  lemon,  two  ounces;  citron,  one  ounce. 
Beat  the  eggs  and  spice  well  together,  mix  the  milk 
with  them  by  degrees,  then  the  rest  of  the  ingre- 
dients; dip  a  fine  close  linen  cloth  into  boiling 
water,  and  put  it  in  a  hair  sieve ;  flour  it  a  little,  and 
tie  it  up  close  ;  put  it  into  a  saucepan  containing  six 
quarts  of  boiling  water ;  keep  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  alongside  of  it,  to  fill  up  your  pot  as  it  wastes; 
be  sure  to  keep  it  boiling  six  hours  at  least. 


MADE  DISHES. 

Obs.  —  If  the  water  ceases  to  boil,  your  pudding 
will  become  heavy,  and  be  spoiled;  but,  if  properly 
managed,  this  will  be  as  fine  a  pudding  of  the  kind 
as  art  can  produce.  This  pudding  is  best  when 
mixed  over  night,  as  the  various  ingredients  by 
that  means  amalgamate^  and  the  whole  becomes 
more  rich  and  fuller  of  flavour.  The  stiffer  it  is 
mixed  the  better  ;  though  the  cook  who  consults 
her  ease  will  not  thank  me  for  tiiis  remark,  if  witb 
it  she  joins  that  which  is  indispensable,  that  the. 
various  ingredients  be  THOROL'GHLY  well  beat 
together.  A  little  brandy,  say  two  tablespoonsful, 
is  an  improvement  to  this  excellent  BfiiTisn  Pud- 
ding, which  is  truly  a  lirilisn  dish,  with  roasted 
sirloin  of  beef,  No.  19.  See  Padding  Sauce,  No. 
269,  and  Pudding  Catsup,  No.  446. 

Plumb  Pudding,    (No.  554.) 

Break  four  eggs  into  a  basin,  beat  them  very 
well,  then  put  in  by  degrees  four  tablespoonsful  of 
flour  piled  as  high  as  the  spoon  will  take ;  beat  the 
flour  and  the  eggs  together  till  the  batter  is  quite 
smooth  and  light  ;  then  add  four  even  table- 
spoonsful of  Lisbon  sugar,  and  half  a  nutmeg 
grated,  and  a  glass  of  brandy  ;  beat  these  in  well, 
and  then  stir  in  a  pound  of  suet  cut  very  tine,  or 
suet  and  marrow  mixed,  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned, 
some  candied  lemon  or  orange-peel  sliced.  Butter 
a  basin  well,  and  press  the  pudding  close  into  it. 

Obs.  —  It  must  boil  five  hours. 

Pease  Pudding.     (No.  555.) 
Put  a  pint  of  split  pease  into  a  clean  cloth  ;  do 


MADE  DISHES. 

not  tie  tliem  up  too  dose,  but  leave  a  little  room  for 
them  to  swell ;  boil  them  slowly  till  they  are  tender; 
if  they  are  good  pease,  they  will  be  boiled  enough 
in  about  three  hours  :  take  them  up,  and  rub  thera 
through  a  hair  sieve;  beat  the  pulp  in  a  basin 
with  an  egg  and  an  ounce  of  butter  and  some  pep- 
per and  salt;  when  the  ingredients  are  well  incor- 
porated together,  (ie  it  up  again  in  the  cloth,  and 
boil  it  half  an  hour  longer.  It  is  as  good  with 
boiled  beef  as  it  is  with  boiled  pork. 

Cumber la7id  Pudding.     (No.  556) 

Beat  four  eggs  well,  mix  them  with  a  pint  of  milk 
and  four  ounces  of  lump  sugar  pounded  and  sifted  ; 
raisins  stoned,  currants  washed  and  picked,  ap- 
ples chopped  fine,  of  each  four  ounces;  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  and  a  very  little  salt. 

Mix  all  well  together  :  dip  a  pudding  cloth  in 
boiling  water,  wring  it,  and  flour  it ;  put  your 
pudding  in,  and  boil  it  three  hours  and  a  half; 
send  it  up  with  pudding  sauce  in  a  boat :  see  re- 
ceipt, No.  ^QS^ 

Maccarotii  Pudding,     (No.  557.) 

Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  maccaroni  till  it  is 
lender;  then  stew  it  in  milk,  with  a  little  cinna- 
mon, and  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  :  when  it  is 
perfectly  well  done,  beat  together  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs  with  the  whites  of  two,  and  a  glass  of 
white  wine,  half  a  nutmeg,  four  bitter  almonds, 
and  sugar  to  your  taste  ;  line  the  edge,  and  half 
way  down  the  side  of  your  pudding  dish,  with 


MADE    DISHES,    ScC. 

piiiT  paste,  put  in  the  oven ;  about  half  an  hour 
will  bake  it. 

Rice  Pudding.     (No.  558.) 

AVash  and  pick  half  a  pound  of  rice  very  clean  ; 
T)bil  it  in  a  cloth  till  it  is  quite  soft ;  ihen.  beat  it 
in  a  marble  mortar,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon  ;  add  to  it  the 
juice  of  the  lemon,  or  a  glass  of  white  wine,  three 
e^gs,  jolks  and  whites  beat  separately ;  spice 
and  sugar  to  your  taste.  An  hour  and  twenty 
minutes  will  boil  it. 

Ground  Rice  Pudding.     (No.  559-) 

Put  five  tablespoon sful  of  ground  rice  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream  or  milk, 
four  ounces  of  sugar,  same  of  butter,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  orange  flour  water:  put  on  the  fire, 
stir  till  it  boils;  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes  in  tbe^ 
corner  of  the  stove;  then  break  six  eggs,  mix  the 
yolks  in  your  pudding,  and  beat  the  whites  till 
they  are  in  snow  ;  mix  all  together,  and  put  them 
in  a  dish,  or  mould,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  ;  it  re- 
quires three  quarters  of  an  hour  to  bake  it :  do  not 
take  it  out  of  the  oven  till  it  is  called  for. 

Custard  Pudding,     (No.  560.) 

'  Boil  a  pint  of  milk ;  put  the  peel  of  a  kmoti 
into  it,  with  a  bit  of  cinnamon  and  three  ounces 
of  sugar ;  when  it  has  boiled,  break  six  eggs,  rub 
them  through  a  silk  sieve ;  when  the  milk  is  a 
Httle  cooled,  mix  it  with  your  eggs,  and  strain  it 
three  or  four  times  through  the  sieve  ;  then  take 
a  plain  mould,  put  a  piece  of  paper  to  the  bottom 
just  to  cover  it,  that  the  pudding  when  done  may 
Jiot  stick  to  the.  bottom,  cover  it  with  paper,  and 


MADE    DISHES,    &C. 

put  it  in  a  stewpan  wiih  some  boiling  water ;  as 
soon  as  it  boils,  put  it  in  the  corner  of  the  stove 
that  the  water  only  simmer;  it  will  lake 
about  forty-five  minutes  :  put  your  dish  upon  the 
top  of  the  mould,  and  overset  it  in  the  dish. 

07'ange  Pudding.     (No.  561.) 

Grate  the  peel  of  three  orani^es  into  a  pint  of 
milk,  with  three  ounces  of  sugar  and  the  crumb  of 
a  twopenny  roll ;  let  it  just  boil,  strain  it  through  a 
tammis  cloth,  add  four  eggs,  and  the  juice  of 
four  oranges  :  bake  it  thirty  minutes. 

White  Wine  Whey      (No.  56^:) 

Is  made,  by  pouring  equal  parts  of  white  wine 
and  skimmed  milk  into  a  basin  ;  and  after  they 
have  stood  a  few  minutes,  adding  a  double  quan- 
tity of  boiling  water.  In  a  short  time  the  curd 
"will  collect  and  subside  at  the  bottom  :  the  whey 
is  now  to  be  strained  into  another  vessel,  and 
sweetened  with  sugar  :  a  sprig  of  balm,  or  a  slice 
of  lemon,  will  greatly  improve  its  flavour. 

Ohs^ — This  is  a  salubrious  beverage  taken  im- 
mediately before  retiring  to  bed,  for  those  who 
have  undergone  severe  bodily  fatigue,  or  exposure 
to  inclement  weather,  as  it  will  excite  a  gentle 
perspiration,  and  thus  obviate  a  cold  or  catarrh. 

Beef  Tea.     (No.  563.) 

Beef  tea  is  usually  made  by  cutting  a  pound  of 
lean  beef  into  very  thin  slices  or  shreds,  and  boil- 
ing it  with  two  blades  of  mace  in  a  quart  of  water. 
When  the  scum  rises,  carefully  remove  it  while  it 
continues  boiling,  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

But  on  considering  the  effect  of  heat  on  the 


MADE    DISHES,    &C. 

volatile  and  spirituous  parts  of  the  animal  fibre, 
when  immersed  in  a  fluid  medium,  we  venture  to 
suggest  a  more  economical  method  of  preparing 
beef  tea. 

instead  of  boiling  the  meat,  we  would  advise  it 
to  be  minced  fine,  then  to  be  reduced  to  a  pulp 
with  a  wooden  pestle,  in  an  iron  or  marble  mortar, 
and  so  express  all  its  juice;  strain  it  off,  and  add 
a  little  spice,  and  an  equal  or  larger  proportion  of 
boiling  water. 

Obs.  —  Thus  the  whole  essence  of  the  meat 
will  be  preserved,  part  of  which  would  be  vola- 
tilized by  cooking.  Nor  does  it  admit  of  a  doubt, 
that  by  such  a  mode  of  preparing  it,  half  a  pound 
of  beef  is  nearly  equal  to  a  whole  pound  used  ac- 
cording to  the  old  method. 

J  fine  strengthening  Mutton  Broth, 
(No.  664.) . 

Two  pounds  of  mutton  or  veal  cwi  small,  a  quar- 
ter pound  of  pearl  barley,  two  quarts  of  water  ;  let 
it  simmer  slowly  till  it  will  rub  through  a  hair 
sieve  to  the  thickness  of  cream  ;  while  preparing, 
take  care  to  skim  it  well,  and  remove  the  fat 

Barley  Water,    (No.  565) 

Take  a  couple  of  ounces  of  pearl  barley,  wash 
it  clean  with  cold  water,  and  put  it  into  half  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  five 
minutes;  pour  off  this  water,  and  add  to  it  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water :  boil  it  to  two  pints,  and 
strain  it. 

The  above  is  simple  barley  water ;  to  a  quart 
of  this  is  frequently  added 

Two  ounces  of  figs,  sliced. 
R  2 


MADE    DISHES,    ScC* 

The  same  of  raisins,  stoned. 

Half  an  ounce  of  liquorice,  sliced  and  bruised; 

And  a  pint  of  water. 

Boil  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  quart,  and  strain. 

Obs — These  drinks  are  intended  to  assuage 
thirst  in  ardent  fevers  and  other  inriammatorj  dis- 
orders, where  plenty  of  mild  diluting  liquor  is 
one  of  the  principal  remedies  ;  and  if  not  suggested 
by  the  medical  attendant,  frequently  demanded 
by  honest  instinct,  in  terms  too  plain  io  be  mis- 
understood :  as  the  stomach  sympathizes  with 
every  fibre  of  (he  human  frame,  no  part  of  it  can 
be  distressed,  without  in  some  degree  oftending 
the  stomach  ;  therefore  it  is  of  the  utmost  import- 
ance to  soothe  this  grand  organ,  by  rendering 
every  thing  we  offer  to  it  as  elegant  and  agreeable 
as  the  nature  of  the  case  will  admit  of:  the  barley 
drink  prepared  according  to  the  second  receipt, 
will  be  received  wiUi  pleasure  by  iJie  mobt  deli- 
cate palate. 

Sanative  English  Tea.    (No.  566.) 

Agrimony,  and  ground  ivy,  equal  quantities  ; 
and  halftis  much  of  the  following;  sweet  marjo- 
ram, pennyroyal,  lavender,  rose,  and  cowslip 
ilower  leaves. 

Chop  and  mix  them  together,  and  use  them  as 
India  tea. 

TooiJiach  and  Anti  rJieumatic  Embrocation, 
(No.  567.) 

Sal  volatile,  three  parts. 

Laudanum,  one  part. 

Mix,  and  rub  (he  pait  adectcd  frequently. 


Sec, 

Peiiistaltic  Persuaders.     (No.  5^8.) 

To  humour  (hat  desire  for  the  marvellous 
tvhich  is  so  universal  in  medical  matters,  the 
contrivers  of  aperient  pills  have  too  often  selected 
the  most  drastic  purgatives,  ^vhich  operating  con- 
siderably in  a  dose  of  a  few  grains,  excite  m.uch 
admiration  in  the  patient,  and  great  faith  in  their 
powers,  in  proportion  as  a  small  dose  produces 
great  effects,  not  considering  how  extremely  irri- 
tating such  materials  must  be,  and  consequently 
how  iiijurious  to  a  stomach  already  in  a  state  of 
debility,  and  perhaps  deranged  by  yesterday's 
excess  *. 

The  inventor  of  the  ''  Peristaltic  Persuaders," 
gave  them  (hat  name  from  the  peculiar  mildness 
of  (heir  operation  :  one  or  two  of  these  pills 
merely  give  a  gentle  hhit  to  that  grand  organ,  the 
stomach,  and  the  other  principal  viscera,  helping 
them  to  do  their  work  a  little  faster,  and  remove 
>vhat  is  offensive  into  the  bowels,  accelerating  (he 
process  of  diges(ion,  and  almost  impercejDtibly 
augmenting  tiie  alvine  exoneration:  if  a  more 
speedy  and  copious  evacuation  is  desired,  take 
three,  or  four,  or  live,  according  to  circumstances. 

%*  These  pills  are  prepared  frwn  a  prescription  of  Dr.  Kitch- 
i^er's^  and  sold  by  G.  D.  Midclev,  IS^o.  49,  Strand,  near 
the  Adelphij  in  boxes,  2s.  9d.  each. 

Stomachic  Tinctui^e.     (No.  569-) 

Cascarilla  bark  bruised,  one  ounce* 
Orange-peel  dried,  one  ounce. 
Brandy,  or  proof  spirit,  one  pint. 

*  If  the  body  or  mind  be  fatigued,  the  stomach  invariably 
sympathizes;  and  the  most  robust  find,  when  tiiey  do  any 
thing  too  much,  the  stomach  acts  retrograde,  and  does  too 
little. 


MADE  DISHES,  &C. 

Let  the  ingredients  steep  for  a  fortnight,  and 
decant  the  clear  liquor. 

Dose,  two  or  three  teaspoonsful  in  a  wine- 
glass of  water  tw  ice  a  day. 

Obs.  —  This  is  a  most  agreeable  aromatic  tonic 
to  create  appetite  and  promote  digestion ;  and 
when  the  stomach  is  in  a  state  of  great  debility,  is 
generally  much  more  acceptable  to  it  than  any  of 
the  simple  or  compound  tinctures  of  the  Peruvian 
bark,  or  other  bitters,  ^'^s  the  former  recipe  is 
excellent  to  remove  indigestion,  so  is  this  a  sove- 
reign remedy  to  strengthen  the  stomach,  and 
prevent  it ;  and  in  most  nervous  and  languid 
chronic  complaints  of  that  organ,  will  be  taken 
with  the  greatest  advantage. 

Paregoric  Elixir.     (No.  570.) 

A  drachm  of  purified  opium. 

A  drachm  of  flowers  of  benjamin. 

A  drachm  of  oil  of  anniseed. 

Camphor,  two  scruples. 

Steep  all  in  a  pint  of  brandy,  or  proof  spirit : 
let  it  stand  icn  days,  occasionally  shaking  it  up. 
Strain. 

A  teaspoonful  in  half  a  pint  of  water  gruel,  taken 
the  last  thing  at  night,  is  a  most  eft'ectual  medi- 
cine to  remove  coughs  and  colds. 

It  is  also  excellent  for  children  who  have  the 
hooping  cough,  in  doses  of  from  five  to  twenty 
drops  in  a  little  water. 

Dr.  Cullens  Receipt  to  make  JVater  Gruel. 
(No.  571.) 
The  following  is  the  most  agreeable  manner  of 
making  water  gruel. 


MADE  DISHES,  &C. 

One  ounce  of  oatmeal  is  sufficient  to  make  two 
quarts  of  water  gruel. 

Put  the  oatmeal  into  three  quarts  of  soft  cold 
■water,  and  set  it  over  the  lire.  It  must  be  con- 
stantly stirred  till  it  boils ;  then  let  it  boil  till  a 
third  part  of  the  water  is  boiled  away;  then  pour 
it  throujc^li  a  linen  cloth  into  a  bowl  a  little  larger 
than  sufficient  to  contain  it.  In  this  bowl  leave  it 
to  cool ;  when  it  will  be  found  separated  into  two 
parts,  one  of  them  a  mealy  cloud  or  sediment, 
and  the  other  a  very  thin  and  clear  liquor.  The  lat- 
ter is  to  be  carefully  decanted,  or  poured  off  for  use. 

To  render  this  more  agreeable  by  the  addition 
of  sugar,  acids,  or  aromatics,  or  to  impregnate  it 
with  medicinal  substances,  1  leave  to  the  judg- 
ment of  the  nurse  or  phj^sician. 

See  Cullen's  3Iat,  Med,  vol.  i.  p.  288.  edit. 
2  vols.  4to.  Edinburgh,  1789. 

JVater  Gruel  immediately.     (No.  572.) 

Mix  well  together,  by  degrees,  two  tablespoons- 
ful  of  oatmeal,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  with  a 
quart  of  cold  water;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it 
boil  gently  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  occa- 
sionally stirring  it  to  prevent  the  oatmeal  burning 
at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan  :  skim  it  and  strain  it. 

Ohs,  —  An  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  brandy,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar 
may  be  added. 

In  the  "  PVay  to  save  Wealth,''  London,  1697, 
in  the  8th  page  are  directions  how  to  live  for  two- 
pence a  day :  the  author's  observation  on  water 
gruel  is,  that  it  makes  *'  a  noble  and  exhilarating 
meal." 


JklADE  DISHES,  \'C. 

Andiovij  Toast.     (Xo.  573.) 

Bone  and  wash  the  anchovies,  and  pound  thcni 
in  a  mortar  Trith  a  little  fresh  butter;  rub  theiu 
through  a  sieve,  and  spread  them  on  a  toast. 

Ohs.  —  You  may  add,  wliile  pounding  tJie  an- 
chovies, a  little  made  mustard  and  curry  powder, 
or  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne,  or  a  Ihtle  njace  or 
"Other  spice.  It  may  be  made  still  more  savoury, 
by  frying  the  toast  in  clariticd  butter. 

Devilled  Biscuit     (No.  57^^ 

Is  the  above  composition  spread  on  a  biscuit 
•^^■arraed  before  tlie  fire  in  a  Dutch  oven,  witli  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  salt  and  savoury  spice,  or 
ze^t^  or  curry  powder,  or  cayenne  pepper  sprinkled 
over  it. 

Ohs.  — This  7ie  plus  ultra  of  high  spiced  re- 
lislies,  frequently  makes  its  appearance  at  the  fag 
end  of  a  tavern  dinner,  when  the  votaries  of  Bac- 
chus are  determined  to  vie  with  each  other  in 
sacrificing  to  the  jolly  god,  and  to  celebrate  his 
festive  rites,  ^'  con  furore,'^ 

To  warm  Water  xvithcut  Fire.    (No.  575.) 

There  have  been  many  contrivances  to  beat 
water,  &c.  immediately,  by  lamps  variously  ap- 
plied :  the  most  expeditious  and  easy  way  is,  to 
get  a  frame  made  to  carry  a  common  tin  sauce- 
pan over  a  patent  lamp  ;  this  will  make  half  a 
pint  of  water  boil  in  five  minutes,  and  is  a  most 
valuable  acquisition  to  the  sick  room. 

THE  END, 


J.    MOYES,  PRINTER, 
GrcTilk  Street,  Uatton  Gardes,  London. 


COOKE'S    TOPOGRAPHY 


OR, 

BRITISH  TRAVELLER'S 

POCKET  DIRECTORY; 

BEING  AJJ  ACOORATE  A\D   COMPREHEXSIVE   TOPOGRAPHICAL,  AND  STATisnCA. 
DKSCRIPXION  OF  ALL   THE   COCSTIES 

ly  ENGLAND,  SCOTLAND,  AND  WALES; 

VITH   A  PARTICULAK  ACCOUNT   OF  THEIB. 

Natural  History,- 
Cl?fl  aad  Ecclesi- 
astical   Jods- 
dietion,  &c. 

The  whole  interspersed  with  a  Variety  of  Information,  eatertaiuing  to  ihe  general 
Reader, — highly  henetcizl  to  iiieAgriculturut,  Tradtr^^ni.  Mannfacturer, 
— and  particularly  interesting  to  the  TravtlUr,  Specuiatitt,  Antiquarj/,  and, 
in  short,  to  every  Inhabitant  of  Great  Britain. 

This  Work  is  completed,  and  anr/  County  may  be  had  separate^,  at  the  Priee 
affixed,  viz. 


Situation, 

Lake=,              \ 

Trade, 

Momiments, 

Extent, 

Mines. 

Commerce, 

Curiosities, 

Towns, 

Mioerai?, 

Agricultare, 

Antiquities, 

Roads, 

Fisheries, 

Fairs, 

Picturesque 

Rivers, 

I^Ianufactures, 

Markets, 

Scenery, 

Bedfoic«1shire  ...  1 
Berkshire  .....  1 
BucJcinghamshire  .  1 
Cambridgeshire   .  .  1 

Cheshire 1 

Cornwall 1 

Cnmberland .  .  .  .  i 
Derbysbire  ....  1 
Devonshire  ....  1 
Dorsetshire  ....  1 

DurhaxB 1 

Essex 1 

Gloucestwshire  .  .  1 
Hampshire  ....  1 
Herefordshire  ...  1 


6    Huntingdonshire      >  , 
6        and  Rutlandsfa.  5 
6    Hertfordshire  .  .    .  1 

6    Kent 3 

6  Lancashire  ....  3 
6  Leicifstershire.  .  .  1 
6  ]  Lincolnshire    ...  1 

6  j  Middlesex 3 

6  I  Monmouthshire  .  .  1 

6  I  Norfolk 1 

6  j  Northamptonshire  .  1 
6  North  Wales  ...  1 
6  Northumberland  .  1 
6  I  Nottinghamshire  .  1 
6  j  Oxfordshire  ....  1 


g  I  Scotland 9 

I  Shropshire 1 

6  j  Somersetshire  ...  1 
0  South  Wales  ...  1 
0  I  StaflFordshire  ...  1 
6  i  Suffolk 1 


Surrey 

Sussex    ... 
Warwickshire 

V^estmoreland 
Wiltshire  .  .  . 
Worcestershire 
Yorkshire  .  .  . 
Isles  of  Wig^ht,  }  , 
Guernsey,  &c.  &c.  ^ 


Seati. 


4'C.  forming  a  COMPLETE  COUNTY  ITINERARY. 


A  SUPERIOR  EDITION  is  printed  on  large  fTove  VeUum  Paper,  hot- 
pressed,  with  the  Maps  coloured.  Price  ^i.  6d.  each  Part. 

The  Description  of  Loudon  maj/  be  had  separately.  Price  g«. 

JLonUOtt  : 

Printed  by  Assignment  from  the  Executors  of  the  late  C.  Cooke 

FOR  SHERWOOD,  KEELY,  AND  JOXES,  PATERKQSTElCROfr  ; 

And  Sold  by  all  Booksellers  in  Toivn  and  Country. 

^.}\^^^'  <^°"^P''^hending  the  Ancient  and  Modern  Historv  of  the 
iintish  Islands,  their  Topography,  Natural  History-,  Commerce,  Aeri- 
culture,  and  Civil  and  Domestic  Economy  deduced  from  autheSic 
sources,  sufficiently  ample,  without  being  unnecessarily  difiuie,  had  Ion- 


^  J.  uuiiioimu,  If  If  unci  winjup    j.TCCtyj    Uftll  UOneSm 

beea  a   Desideratum  in  English  Literature;  and  it  was  with  a  view  of 
supplying  this  defect,  that  the  present  Work  was  undertaken. 

It  will  readily  be  admitted,  a  perfect  acquaintance  with  the  local 
History  and  internal  Advantages  of  our  Native  Country,  is  one  of  the 
most  useful,  ornamental,  and  desirable  branches  of  human  Knowledee  ; 
and  there  is  not,  perhaps,  a  Country  in  the  World  more  generally  inte- 
resting to  the  Scientific  Observer,  than  that  of  Great  Britain. 

In  order  to  render  this  Work  as  perfect  and  useful  as  possible,  cor- 
rect Maps,  and  accurate  Itineraries,  have  been  considered  indispensably- 
necessary. — In  treating  of  the  Ancient  Hiitonj  of  our  Island,  the  most 
authentic  accounts  only  have  been  detailed,  avoiding  mere  speculation; 
and,  in  describing  Mo7iuments  of  Antiquity,  their  present  appearance, 
with  the  opinions  of  the  learned  upon  their  origin,  have  been  deemed 
sufficient. — The  Topographical  Descriptions  have  been  drawn  from  the 
best  works  upon  the  subject,  from  original  materials,  and  from  actual 
observation.  No  pains  have  been  spared  in  producing  authentic  his- 
torical accounts  of  the  Ancient  and  Present  State  of  every  part  of  the 
Country.  The  Name  of  every  Eminent  Native,  will  be  found  recorded 
with  due  respect,  at  the  same  time  that  the  Work  has  not  been  much  in- 
creased in  size  by  Biographical  Memoirs. — The  Natural  History  of 
the  British  Islands  has  claimed  particular  attention,  and  details  haA'C 
been  entered  into,  as  amply  as  the  nature  of  the  Work  would  allow. 
Great  care  has  been  taken  with  the  Local  Trade  and  Mannfactures  of 
cver>-  part  of  Great  Britain  ;  and  no  opportunity  has  been  omitted  to 
point  out  favourable  situations  for  the  exercise  of  Industry,  and  the'be- 
neficial  application  of  Capital. — And,  the" Science  o£  Agric?j,lture,  which 
has  been  so  considerably  benefited  by  the  Publication  of  the  valuable 
"  AGRICULTURAL  REPORTS  OF  GREAT  BRITAIN,"  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Board  of  Agriculture,  will  be  found  to  have  received  that 
share  of  attention,  which  the  importance  of  tl^e  subject  demands. 

The  Plan  of  this  Work  has  received  particular  approbation,  from 
each  County  being  divided  into.  Easy  Jour nies;  by  which. means,  Per- 
sons, either'riding,  or  on  foot,  have  the  opportunity  of  viewing  many 
Beauties,  which  otlierwise  might  be  missed. 

***  Persons  desirous  nf  27'J^sessingthe  Work  Complete,  Tnay  have  it  neatly 
done  up  in  cxtraBoards,  tn26portuble  volumes, price  iL  Us.;  or,  any  voluine 
may  be  had  separately,  viz. 

'     I 


Vol.                                                  s.  d. 

1.  CorDwall  and  Devonshire      3  6 

2.  Somersetshire  &  Dorsetshire  3  6, 

3.  Wiltshire  and  Berkshire   -     ^  '6 

4.  Hampshire,    and    Isles    of?  o  g 

Wi^t,  Guernsey,  &c.  &c.  S 

5.  Surrv  and  Sussex  -     -     -  ^3  6 

6.  Kent 3-6 

7.  Middlesex 3  6 

b.  Hertfordshire  and  Essex  -     3  6 

9.  Suffolk  and  Norfolk     -     -     3  6 

10.  Cambridgeshire,   Hunting-?  ^  g 

donsbire,&  Rutlandshire  S 

11.  Northampton  and  Bedford     3  6 

12.  Buckingham  and  Oxford  -    3  6 

13.  Gloucester   and  Hereford      3  6 


Vol.                                                  «•  c- 

14.  Rlonmouthshire  &  S.Wales  3  6 

15.  North  Wales  and  Shropshire  3  (5 

16.  Worcester  and  W^arwick       3  6 

17.  Leicester    and   Lincoln    -     3  6 

18.  Nottingham  and  Derby     -30 
19:  StafiPordsblre  and  Cheshire  '  3  C 

20.  Lancashire ^  ^ 

21.  Yorkshire 3  6 

22.  Westmoreland  &  Cumberland  3  6 

23.  Durham  St  Northumberland  3  6 

r  General  Div.  •\ 

24.  Scotland  \          and           >^  ^ 

{.Northern  Do.  J 

25.  Scotland— Mi<Wie  Division  3  6 

26.  Scotland— Aou«/t£r»  Div.      3  6 


•K.  R.  n  mav  be  had  also  bound,  in  any  manner  agreeable  to  the  Purchaser 


x^aier  uusici  £UfW)  jlaji 


BELVS  BEAUTIFUL  EDITION 

or    THE 

13rtti0t) 
CONSTITUTIONAL  CLASSICS, 

Complete  in  Forty-five  Numbers,  Price  Is.  6d.  each, 

FORMING  SEVEN  ELEGANT  VOLU.IES, 

BEING    A    LIBRARY    OF 
HISTORICAL  AND  CONSTITUTIONAL  INFORMATION. 

This  Edition  is  printed  in  an  elegant  Pocket  Size,  on  a  beautiful  wme 
Paper,  of  a  neio  Fabric,  hot-pressed,  with  a  nevo  and  clear  Type.  Each 
Number  contains  Four  Sheets  of  Letter-press,  or  64  Pages;  and,  from 
its  unexampled  elegance  and  convenient  size,  has  an  advantage  over  every 
former  Edition  of  the  Worlcs  comprised  mthin  this  Classification. 

This  Complete  Edition  of  tie  Constitutional  Classics  consists  of  the 
foUowiag  Works :   viz. 

I. 

^ngUtttJ, 

Complete  in  Twenty-eight  Numbers. 
This  aiitioa  contains  the  pure  text  of  Blackstone,  as  printed  from  the  last 
Edition  revised  by  himself;  but  the  subsequent  Statutes,  as  far  as  they  vary  the 
propositions  in  the  text,  are  fully  given  in  the  Notes;  and  all  other  judicial  de- 
terminations, -which  alter  or  qualify  the  Author'*  original  sentiments,  are  cor- 
rectly pointed  out,  and  referred  to;  so  that  this  Edition  is  what  the  Author  in- 
tended, a  Book  of  Elements  and  Principles,  and  yet  exhibiting  the  actual 
shape  and  body  of  the  Law,  brought  down  to,  and  exi^-ting  at  the  present  day, 
—The  Notes,  therefore,  are  upon  the  ?:ame  plan  as  the  Work  itself;  that  is, 
not  branching  out  into  uanecesfiary  detail,  or  dilating  upon  the  technical  prac- 
tice of  the  Courts,  but  embodying  only  the  new  Laws,  principles,  and  judicial 
determinations,  introduced  and  acknowledged  by  the  Legislature,  since  the  last 
edition. 

A  copious  Index,  digested  on  an  entirely  new  plan,  is  annexed,  and  gives  it  a 
decided  superiority  over  all  other  Editions  of  Blaciistone,  which  are  so  esseatially 
defective  in  this  material  requisite  of  a  Book  of  Study  and  Reference.-^A  fine 
Portrait  of  Blackstone,  with  his  Life,  is  prefixed  to  the  first  Number. 

IL 

JBt  Holme  on  tHe  (iSJngU^^  Constitution, 

Complete  in  Five  Numbera-. 
This  Work  is  acknowledged  to  be  a  most  luminous  and  masterly  arrangement  of 
the  principles  of  the  BritisJi  Constitution. — The  Author,  being  a  foreigner,  had 
escape  '  he  contagion  of  party  passions,  and  had  no  prejudice  to  indulge  on  any. 
side.  1\ .  iher  Whig  nor  Tory,  Aristocrat  nor  Republican,  he  viewed  the  mighty 
fabric  of  our  Government  with  impartial  reverence,  and  delineated  all  its  partg 
with  sacred  truth. 

The  present  is  printed  from  his  last  corrected  Edition;  to  which  a  few  Notes 
are  appended,  bringing  the  history  of  the  Constitution  down  to  the  present 
time — A  fine  Portrait  of  De  Lolme,  with  his  Lift,  is  preSzed  to  the  Fii^t 
NumbCT. 


Published  by  Shei-Kood  and  Co.  Paternoster-Uo-jOj  London. 


III. 

%i^ttt  on  €x3jbn  umrnt, 

Complete  in  Three  ^umbers. 

©f  LOCKE  on  GOVER"NMENT,  which  was  the  stone  upon  whicb  was  fotihded, 
reared,  and  established,  the  glorious  Pi-evolution  in  1688,  all  praise  would  be 
superfluous.  It  develope-,  with  the  most  masterly  skill,  the  principles  of  all 
Governments,  and  the  claims  of  Englishmen  to  a  Free  Constitution.  It  shows, 
that  obedience  to  Civil  Government  is  submission  to  the  will  of  God;  and  that, 
by  the  Laws  of  England,  Liberty,  Public  Prosperity,  and  Private  Happiness,  are 
inseparably  coanected. 

Complete  in  Five  Numbers. 

Upon  these  celebrated  Lettkrs,  nothing  in  tlie  nature  of  panegyric,  needs  be 
attempted.  They  are  ceitainly  not  without  con'^iderable  virulence  and  asperity; 
but  they  contain  the  most  solid  principles  of  political  wisdom  and  coustitutiooal 
}earning.  This  Work  is  net  only  worthy  of  being  read  for  its  profound  and 
inanly  exposition  of  the  grounds  of  British  liberty,  but  for  the  peculiar  elegance, 
and  polished  poignancy  of  the  style  in  whicb  it  is  written. 

V. 

^nvW^  Ucfitttiom  on  ttie  dFvcMCi) 
KriJOlution, 

Complete  in  Four  Numbers. 
BURKE'S  REFLECTIONS  close  this  Series; — which  appeared,  when  the  con- 
\-ulsions  of  the  French  Revolution  shook  the  Globe  like  an  earthquake,  and 
which,  by  the  unrivalled  charm  of  its  reason  and  t.loquence,  quenched  the  thirst 
for  innovation,  and  allajed  the  rising  storm,  which  threatened  to  tear  us  from 
our  homes,  our  liberties,  our  altars,  and  our  God. 

This  has  always  been  deemed  a  most  valuable  vindication  of  our  rights  and 
liberties; — upholding  equally  the  Church  and  State,  the  prerogative  of  the 
Throne,  the  claims  of  the  privileged  orders,  and  the  liberty  of  the  subject.  The 
Scholar  should  read  it  for  its  eloquence,— the  Statesman  for  its  wisdom,— aad 
all  men  for  its  virtue. 


The  BRITISH  CONSTITUTIONAL  CLASSICS  are  particularly  recom- 
mended to  the  Heads  of  Seminaries,  and  Families;  by  adopting  which,  the 
true  interest,  and  the  moral  and  intellectual  improvement  of  the  rising  genera- 
tion might  be  most  effectually  promoted,  and  their  minds  formed  to  a  love  and 
reverence  of  the  laws  of  their  country,  and  a  knowledge  of  its  wise  institutions. 

It  is  presumed,  the  portability  3.nA  elegance  of  thig  Series  will  render  it  pecu- 
liarly acceptable  to  the  Sttcdents  of  oitr  Universities ;— It  is  adapted  t» 
the  leisure  of  a  morning  or  evening  walk,  or  to  the  contemplation  of  the  study. 
With  the  general  reader,  these  Works  must  have  their  full  influence  and  effect; 
—he  cannot  but  be  amply  gratified  in  perusing  these  Classics,  whose  object  is 
not  to  inculcate  new  fancies  and  opinions,  but  old  and  established  truths,  vene- 
rable for  their  age,  and  Facred  for  their  utility,  and  to  instruct  every  Englishman 
in  thoFe  Rights  and  Duties,  upon  which  his  Public  and  Private  welfare  depend, 
to  cherish  in  him  a  generous  Loyalty,  a  manly  love  of  his  own  Liberties,— and  a 
due  value  of  the  glorious  Constitution  under  which  he  lives. 

Each  Work  may  be  had  separatelif  in  boards,  bound,  or  in  Numbers. 


MAY   ''  1    'JC^o 


