A  rjz-o  na 
Cook  Book 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


J 


Shredded    ^VTieat    Dishes 

A  dainty,  wholesome,  appetizing  meal  can  be  prepared  with 
Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  "in  a  jiffy."  It  is  ready-cooked  and  ready 
to  serve.  You  can  do  things  with  it  that  are  not  possible  with  any 
other  "breakfast  food."  It  is  the  only  cereal  food  made  in  buscuit 
form.  Combined  with  fresh  or  preserved  fruit,  or  with  creamed 
meats  or  creamed  vegetables,  or  simply  eaten  as  breakfast  'food 
with  milk  or  cream,  it  .is  delicious,  nourishing  and  satisfying. 

Shreeded  Wheat  is  made  of  the  whole  wheat,  cleaned,  cooked, 
drawn  into  fine  porus  sherds  and  twice  baked.  It  is  the  cleanest, 
purest  cereal  food  made  in  the  world.  Recipes  for  making  many 
wholesome  "Shredder  Wheat  Dishes"  will  be  found  in  this  book. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT  is  made  in  two  forms:  BISCUIT,  for 
breakfast  or  any  meal;  TRISCUIT  the  Shredded  Wheat  wafer, 
eaten  as  a  toast  for  luncheon  or  any  other  meal  with  butter 
cheese  or  marmalades.  Both  the  Biscuit  and  Triscuit  should 
be  heated  in  the  oven  to  restore  crispness  before  serving.  .Our 
new  Cook  Book  is  sent  free  for  the  asking. 


l 


The  Shredded  \Vheat  Company 

Nmgra  Falls,   N.  Y. 


Copyright  1911 

by 
Williams   Public   Library   Association 


THE 

ARIZONA 
COOK 
BOOK 


1911 

Press  of  the  Morning  Journal 
Albuquerque,  N.  M. 


WILLIAMS,  ARIZONA. 


Williams  is  a  thriving  mountain  city  with  a  population  of 
about  2,500,  delightfully  located  in  the  heart  of  the  great 
pine  belt  of  Coconimo  County,  in  Northern  Arizona,  at  an  alti- 
tude of  6,570  feet  above  sea-level.  It  is  the  terminal  of  the 
Grand  Canyon  Railway,  and  a  commercial  point  on  the  A.  T.  & 
S.  F.  Railway.  In  addition  to  the  revenue  from  these  sources, 
there  is  situated  in  this  city  the  largest  saw-mill  and  box  factory 
in  the  Southwest,  which  gives  employment  to  many  men.  There 
are  also  stock  ranges,  copper  mines  and  thriving  ranches  sur- 
rounding it. 

Williams  is  about  sixty  miles  distant  from,  and  is  aptly  named 
the  Gateway  to  the  Grand  Canyon  of  Arizona,  being  the  only 
point  from  which  to  visit  this  world's  greatest  natural  wonder, 
by  rail.  Five  miles  south  of  the  city  is  situated  Bill  Williams 
Mountain,  named  for  that  famous  hunder  and  scout,  whose 
name  it  bears,  and  whose  remains  lie  entombed  on  its  summit. 
The  mountain  is  easily  accessible,  as  the  beautiful  winding  trail 
begins  right  at  the  edge  of  the  city.  Nearly  one-fourth  of  Ari- 
zona is  visible  from  the  highest  peak,  which  has  an  aitltude  of 
ten  thousand  feet. 

Williams'  summer  climate  is  acknowledged  to  be  the  coolest 
and  most  delightful  on  the  continent,  the  temperature  averag- 
ing 75  degrees,  the  days  being  sunny  and  pleasant,  and  the 
nights  always  cool  and  conducive  to  sleep. 

Williams  has  one  of  the  most  modern  school  buildings  in  the 
Territory,  and  an  efficient  corps  of  teachers.  Also  a  Roman 
Catholic,  and  a  Methodist  Church. 

Williams  enjoys  most  of  the  modern  conveniences,  electric 
lights,  water  works,  and  a  sewer  system.  The  telephone  ser- 
vice is  also  of  the  best. 

Williams  has  the  latest  of  Fred  Harvey's  hotels,  the  Fra 
Marcos,  recently  constructed  at  an  expenditure  of  $125,000.00, 
and  its  accommodations  cannot  be  surpassed. 

Williams  needs  a  public  library. 


'We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art; 
We  may  live  without  conscience  and  live  without  heart; 
We  may  live  without  friends;  we  may  live  without  books; 
But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

He  may  live  without  books — what  is  knowledge  but  grieving? 
He  may  live  without  hope, — what  is  hope  but  deceiving? 
He  may  live  without  love,  what  is  passion  but  pining? 
But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining?" 

— Lucile. 


DIET. 


In  a  book  of  this  character  it  wouldn't  be  amiss  to  say  a  few 
words  on  the  effect  of  cooking  on  meats  and  vegetables.  Will 
quote  from  the  work  of  Frieclenwald  and  Ruhrah  on  Diet : 

"The  effect  of  cooking  on  meat  is  to  diminish  its  watery  con- 
stituents, thus  concentrating  and  rendering  it  more  nutritious ; 
by  this  process  also  the  extractives,  as  \vell  as  some  of  the  fats, 
are  partly  removed. 

The  chief  loss  in  weight  during  boiling,  sauteing,  and  pen 
broiling  is  due  to  water  removed  by  the  heat  of  the  cooking. 
In  the  roasting  of  meats  the  chief  loss  is  due  to  the  removal  of 
both  water  and  fat.  In  pan  broiling  the  losses  which  take 
place  are  very  small  as  compared  with  the  other  methods  of 
cooking.  The  longer  time  meat  is  cooked,  and  the  higher  tem- 
perature at  which  this  is  done, 'the  greater  the  loss  in  water  and 
fat,  the  larger  pieces  losing  relatively  less  than  the  smaller  ones. 

The  important  object  in  the  cooking  of  vegetables  is  to  rup- 
ture the  cellulose  envelop  and  so  to  soften  the  contained  starch- 
granules.  Under  the  influence  of  heat  and  moisture  the  starch 
swells  and  bursts  its  envelop,  forming  a  paste ;  this  paste,  in  its 
turn,  expands  and  ruptures  the  cellulose  envelope;  cooking, 
therefore,  renders  vegetable  foods  more  easily  digestible. 

In  the  cooking  of  meats  a  certain  portion  of  the  ingredients 
are  lost.  Unlike  meats,  however,  vegetables  become  more 
watery  in  cooking.  In  this  condition  they  are  more  easily  acted 
upon  by  the  gastric  secretion;  on  the  other  hand,  the  addition 
of  water  in  cooking  so  increases  their  buk  that  the  motor  func- 
tion of  the  stomach  is  apt  to  be  overworked." 

DR.  C.  D.  JEFFRIES. 


INTRODUCTORY. 


Many  cooks  find  from  experience  that  few  recipes  can  be  fol- 
lowed exactly  and  under  all  conditions  and  in  all  climates. 

In  Northern  Arizona  the  altitude,  which  6700  feet,  and  the 
extreme  dryness  of  the  atmosphere  affect  certain  articles  in 
common  use.  For  instance,  salt  loses  its  flavor  when  left  stand- 
ing, and  requires  a  larger  quantity.  This  is  due  perhaps  to  the 
evaporative  atmosphere.  Less  baking  powder  and  shortening, 
but  more  flour  is  necessary.  Cake  and  bread  require  longer 
baking  and  articles  cooked  by  boiling  take  a  much  longer  time 
because  the  boiling  point  is  lower.  Soft  boiled  eggs  need  four 
minutes,  while  in  lower  altitudes  three  minutes  will  suffice. 

This  book,  however,  is  not  a  high  altitude  cook  book.  We 
have  endeavored  to  compile  a  book  that  could  be  utilized  either 
in  high  or  low  altitudes,  but  of  course,  one  must  be  governed  to 
some  extent  by  the  locations  from  where  the  different  recipes 
have  been  submitted. 

We  have  omitted  flavoring  of  brandy  or  wine -in  the  few  in- 
stances in  which  they  were  given.  Otherwise  the  recipes  stand 
just  as  they  were  received  and  we  hope  they  will  prove  a  pleasure 
and  help  to  everyone. 

The  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  this  book  will  be  used  in  con- 
structing and  maintaining  a  public  library  for  our  town. 

WILUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION, 
Williams,  Arizona. 


NECESSARY  INFORMATION. 


"A  pint  is  a  pound  the  world  around." 


3  teaspoons  —    1     tabsp. 

1 

4   tablespoons   —  •  %         cup 

1  cup       —  %       pint. 

1 

I    round    tablespoon 
butter    —    1     ounce. 

1 

1    solid    cup    butter, 
granulated    sugar, 
milk,      chopped 
meat      —  ^  pound. 

1 

2  cups  flour  —  %  pound. 

9   large   eggs          ...  —    1  pound 

1 

Table  of  Proportions. 

1  cup  liquid,  3  cups  for  bread. 

* 

1    cup    liquid,    2    cups    flour    for 
muffins. 

1  cup  liquid,  1  cup  flour  for  bat- 
ters. 

1   teaspoon   soda  to   1   pint  sour 
milk. 

1    teaspoon   soda   to    1    cup    mo- 
lasses. 

teaspoon  salt  to  1  quart  cus- 
tard. 

1  teaspoon  salt  to  1  quart  water, 
teaspoon  salt  is  a  pinch. 

%  square  inch  pepper  is  a  shake. 


HIGH  AI/TITUDE  RISING  POWDER  PROPORTIONS. 

To  one  quart  flour  use  two  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

To  one  cupful  sour  milk  or  cream  use  one-half  teaspoonful 
soda. 

To  one  quart  flour  use  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  cream 
of  tartar. 

For  cake  making  many  prefer  using  water  instead  of  milk ; 
also  lard  rather  than  butter,  claiming  the  cake  will  be  lighter  as 
well  as  finer  grain. 


TO  TEST  YOUR  OVEN. 

Try  with  a  piece  of  paper : — 

If  light  brown,  fit  for  pastry. 

If  dark  yellow,  fit  for  bread  and  heavier  cakes. 

If  light  yellow,  fit  for  sponge  cake  and  lighter  desserts. 


'Drink,  pretty  creature,  drink." — Wordsworth. 

BEVERAGES. 


CHOCOLATE. 

Mix  two  rounded  tablespoons  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two 
squares  of  chocolate,  one-fourth  cup  cold  water;  stir  over  fire 
until  melted  thick  and  smooth,  add  one  cup  boiling  water. 
When  ready  to  serve  add  three  cupfuls  scalded  milk ;  keep  hot 
over  hot  water  until  served. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

.  COFFEE. 

To  a  pint  of  boiling  water  add  two  tablespoons  coffee ;  let  boil 
one  minute,  set  on  back  of  range  to  settle  until  ready  to  serve. — 
Mrs.  Geo.  Barney,  Williams,  Arizona. 

COFFEE. 

One  tablespoonful  ground  coffee  for  each  cup  and  one 
tablespoonful  for  the  coffee  pot.  Tie  in  a  cheese  cloth ;  pour 
boiling  water  over  it  and  let  it  boil  up  good  for  five  minutes. 
Serve  at  once.  When  picnicing,  put  on  fire  in  cold  water  and 
let  it  come  to  a  good  boil. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

ICED    COFFEE. 

Do  not  throw  away  the  coffee  left  from  breakfast.  Strain  it. 
put  it  into  glass  bottles  or  jars  and  set  it  on  the  ice  to  serve  as 
iced  coffee  at  luncheon  or  dinner.  Serve  with  rich  cream  and 
granulated  sugar. — Contributed. 

•   "Coffee,  which  makes  the  politician  wise 

And  see  through  all  things  with  Half-shut  eyes." 

— -Pope. 

A  COCOA  EGG-NOGG. 

A  cocoa  egg-nog  is  quickly  made.  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg 
until  stiff,  and  -add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  breakfast  cocoa  und  a 
few  grains  of  salt.  Add  to  one-half  the  mixture,  while  beating 
constantly,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  cold  mlik.  Turn  into  a 
glass  and  pile  the  remaining  mixture  on  top. — Woman's  Home 
Companion. 

FRUIT  EGGNOG. 

One  egg,  three  tablespoons  blackberry,  raspberry,  strawberry 
or  pineapple  juice;  one  tablespoon  cold  water,  one-third  cup 


14  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

finely  crushed  ice,  one-half  grain  saccharine  dissolved  on  one 
teaspoon  water.  Crush  fresh  fruit,  and  strain  through  a  cheese- 
cloth. Beat  egg  slightly,  add  water,  and  fruit  juice,  a  little  at  a 
time.  Strain  and  pour  this  mixture  over  the  crushed  ice. 
Sweeten  to  taste. — Contributed. 

UNFERMENTED   GRAPE  JUICE. 

Three  quarts  of  grapes,  one  quart  of  water,  boil — strain. 
Three  pounds  of  sugar  to  four  quarts  of  juice;  let  come  to  a 
boil,  bottle  and  seal. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Coles,  Middletown,  Conn. 

PINEAPPLE  JARDINERE. 

Canned  pineapple,  sliced  or  gated  and  drain  well ;  set  on  ice 
and  prepare  one  banana  finely  diced ;  the  pulp  of  one  grape  fruit 
and  one-half  pound  white  sugar  and  water  syrup.  Serve  in 
glasses  topping  each  with  a  cherry.  If  pineapple  is  sliced  shred 
it  before  adding  the  other  fruits. — I.  W.  Bayles,  \Yilliams, 
Ariz. 

LEMONADE. 

Lemonade  to  serve  through  the  evening  for  seventy-five  per- 
sons. Five  dozen  lemons,  one  doze.n  oranges,  one  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  dozen  fruit,  one  pint  of  hot  water  to  each  pound 
of  sugar.  After  this  is  dissolved  and  cold,  add  the  fruit  juices, 
and  cold  water  to  taste.  Makes  about  eight  gallons. — L.  T. 
Stansell,  Manistee,  Mich. 

STRAWBERRY  LEMONADE. 

Make  lemonade  according  to  the  usual  recipe  and  add  to  it 
crushed  strawberries  in  proportion  of  a  cup  of  crushed  berries 
to  each  quart  of  the  lemonade.  The  strawberries  should  be 
crushed  into  a  smooth  pulp  and  will  be  better  if  run  through  a 
coarse  sieve. — A  Friend  of  the  Cook  Book. 

PINEAPPLE  CUP  (For  Afternoon  Reception). 

Put  into  a  bowl  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  two  oranges, 
a  can  of  grated  pineapple  and  one  cup  sugar.  Let  stand  an  hour 
then  put  through  a  fruit  press ;  add  as  much  water  is  you  desire 
and  put  into  a  large  bowl  with  a  block  of  ice.  On  top  put  sliced 
pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces. — J.  W.  Baylis,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PUNCH. 

One  quart  grape  juice,  one  quart  plain  water,  one  glass  logan- 
berry jelly  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  glass  blackberry  jelly 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  15 

dissolved  in  hot  water ;  juice  from  one  bottle  Long's  preserved 
cherries.    Place  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

Prepare  in  separate  pans  :  Juice  from  six  lemons,  six  bananas 
cut  in  dice,  cherries  cut  in  halves,  one-half  cupful  chopped  al- 
monds, one-half  cupful  chopped  walnuts,  one  cupful  orange 
juice  ,one  cupful  grated  pineapple.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serv- 
ing put  all  together  in  punch  bowl,  adding  sugar  to  taste  and 
large  piece  of  ice. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PUNCH  (For  Forty  People). 

One  dozen  lemons,  one  dozen  oragnes,  one-half  dozen  ban- 
anas, one  pint  can  pineapple,  juice  from  a  quart  can  of  respber- 
ries,  ten  cups  sugar,  five  quarts  of  water. — Contributed. 

FRUIT   PUNCH. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  five  lemons  and  three  oranges,  two 
cups  of  water,  one  cup  of  strong  tea,  one  pint  raspberry  syrup, 
one  quart  of  apollinaris  water  last. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Coles,  Mid- 
dletown,  Conn. 

RECIPE  FOR  ONE  GALLON  FRUIT  PUNCH. 

Six  oranges,  sliced ;  six  bananas,  sliced ;  one  can  pineapple, 
one  dozen  lemons,  juice;  two  pounds  sugar,  two  quarts' grape 
juice,  one  bottle  cherries,  and  any  other  fruit  desired. — John 
L,angowsky,  Williams,  Ariz. 

HALLOWE'EN    PUNCH. 

Make  three  quarts  simple  syrup,  five  quarts  sugar  to  one 
quart  boiling  water,  let  stand  over  night.  Add  juice  of  three 
dozen  lemons,  three  dozen  oranges,  juice  from  quart  can  best 
pineapple,  juice  from  one  bottle  Marchino  cherries.  Add  cold 
water  enough  to  weaken  down  to  suit  the  taste.  Cut  pineapple 
in  small  pieces ;  serve  pineapple  and  cherries  in  each  punch  cup 
with  tooth  pick  sticking  in  a  cherry.  This  will  serve  thirty 
persons.  Serve  in  large  pumpkin. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

PLAIN   PUNCH. 

One  quart  lemon  juice  with  one  cup  of  sugar ;  let  it  stand  one 
hour.  One  quart  orange  juice  with  one  cup  sugar;  let  it  stand 
one  hour.  One  pint  Welch's  grape  juice,  two  quarts  water ;  put 
all  together,  with  cracked  ice  fifteen  minutes  before  serving. — 
Miss  Margarette  A.  Dermont,  \Yilliams,  Ariz. 

PRESBYTERIAN   PUNCH. 

Enough  for  90  glasses.  Four  dozen  lemons,  two  dozen 
oranges,  two  cans  pineapple,  using  only  the  juice ;  two  cans 


16  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

cherry  juice,  two  boxes  strawberries,  one  box  cooked, 
sweetened  and  strained.  About  half  as  much  sugar  in  the  lem- 
ons as  for  lemonade,  grape  juice  enough  to  give  a  good  wine 
colour.  Use  the  other  box  of  berries  whole,  one  or  two  in  a 
glass. — Mrs.  B.  M.  Cutcheon,  Manistee,  Mich. 

TEA. 

Use  water  freshly  boiled ;  for  mild  infusions  allow  one-half 
teaspoon  for  each  cup.  Pour  boiling  water  on  the  tea,  cover 
closely;  let  stand  for  five  minutes. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

ICED  TEA. 

One  teaspoonful  Monsoon,  or  any  black  tea,  to  each  cup,  with 
three  extra  for  tea  pot.  Pour  on  boiling  water ;  leave  on  back  of 
range  five  minutes.  Strain  into  pitcher,  allowing  to  cool  slowly ; 
when  cool,  place  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve.  Pour  into  goblets 
with  pieces — not  cracked — ice;  serve  quarters  of  lemon  with 
each  glass.  Sweeten  to  taste. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

She — "Are  you   fond   of  tea?" 

He — "Yes;  but  I  like  the  next  letter  better." 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  17 


BREAD 


"Now  therefore  I  pray  thee,  harken  thou  also  unto  the  voice  of 
thine  handmaid,  and  let  me  set  a  morsel  of  bread  before  thee;  and  eat, 
that  thou  mayest  have  strength,  when  thou  goest  on  thy  way." — Bible. 

THE  BREAD  I  BAKE. 

(By  Kennett  Harris.) 

You  tell  me  that  you  hold  me  dear, 

You  say  that  for  my  love  you  sigh; 
You're  only  happy  when  I'm  near. 

Without  me  you  would  want  to  die. 
That's  very  nice,  I  won't  deny, 

Your  heart  I  do  not  want  to  break, 
But  will  you  joke  about  my  pie 

And  will  you  scorn  the  bread  I  bake? 

I've  heard  of  husbands  who  would  sneer 

And  scold  when  matters  went  awry. 
Who  keep  their  wives  in  dread  and  fear, 

Who  carp  and  grumble  and  decry. 
Of  course,  you  know,  I  don't  imply 

That  such  a  course  you're  apt  to  take, 
But  how  about  the  chops  I  fry, 

And  will  you  scorn  the  bread  I  bake? 

Perchance  within  one  fleeting  year 

You  might  not  rate  my  charms  so  high, 
You  might  say  that  my  roast  was  queer 

And  call  it  tasteless,  burnt  and  dry, 
For  me  all  dangers  you'd  defy, 

You'd  brave  the  gallows  or  the  stake, 
But  will  you  call  my  coffee  lye, 

And  will  you  scorn  the  bread  I  bake? 

L'ENVOI. 

There's  this  about  the  marriage  tie: 

You'd  suffer  all  for  my  sweet  sake, 
But  how  about  the  hats  I  buy? 

And  will  you  scorn  the  bread   I  bake? 

YEAST. 

Soak  one  cake  yeast  foam  in  a  little  warm  water  over  night. 
In  morning  grate  two  large  or  three  medium  potatoes,  add  one- 
third  cup  sugar,  heaping  tablespoon  salt  and  three  pints  boiling 
water.  \Yhen  cool,  add  yeast,  cover  well,  let  rise  in  a  warm 
place ;  after  it  rises,  put  in  cool  place. — Mrs.  C.  Wisehart,  Flag- 
staff, Ariz. 

YKAST. 

One  tablespoon  sugar,  two-thirds  teaspoon  ginger,  one  tea- 
spooon  salt,  two  cup?  flour,  one  pint  boiling  water.  Mix  all 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  19 

together,  boil  till  thick ;  when  cool,  add  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in 
water. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

YEAST    FOR    BREAD. 

Into  one  quart  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  stir  one  cup  of  flour, 
one  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  salt ;  when  smooth  add  one  quart 
potato  water,  strain  through  colander  if  lumpy;  put  aside  to 
cool,  when  about  lukewarm  add  one  dissolved  yeast  cake.  Let 
stand  for  two  days  before  using.  In  the  morning  when  going  to 
bake  use  in  the  proportions  of  one  cup  of  yeast  to  two  of  water 
and  thicken  with  flour,  let  rise  till  light  and  mix  stiff  and  finish 
same  as  any  bread.  This  yeast  will  keep  for  two  or  three  weeks 
if  kept  at  a  moderate  temperature  and  from  the  light. — Mrs. 
Atwood,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BREAD. 

To  one  cup  yeast  add  one  cup  lake  warm  water  and  enough 
flour  to  make  batter.  Let  rise.  To  six  cups  flour  add  two  table- 
spoons salt,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  lard,  add 
yeast  and  enough  warm  water  to  make  soft  dough.  Let  rise 
and  knead  down.  Let  rise  and  make  into  three  loaves.  Let  rise 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour. — Mrs.  C.  Wiseheart,  Flag- 
staff, Ariz. 

BREAD.  QUICK  WAY. 

One  pint  milk,  one  pint  water,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  one  cake  compressed  yeast.  Mix  in  flour  to  a  soft 
paste  and  mix  until  it  does  not  stick  to  moulding  board ;  be  sure 
and  not  mix  too  stiff.  Grease  pan  and  let  raise  until  twice  the 
size,  then  put  in  pans  and  raise  again.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 
—Mrs.  Babcock,  Manistee.  Mich. 

Mike — "Phwat's  th'  difference  bechune  a  loaf  of  bread  baked  lasht 
wake  and — " 

Pat  (Interrupting) — "Och,  begorra,  that's  sthale!" 
Mike — "Do  ye  mane  to  say  that's  a  sthale  joke?" 
Pat — "No;  Oi  mane  the  bread  baked  lasht  wake  is  stahle!" 

BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  cups  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  sweet  milk, 
one  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  salt,  three  cups  corn  meal,  two 
cups  graham  flour,  steam  three  hours.  This  recipe  should  be 
divided  for  a  small  family. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Appleton,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

"That,"  said  the  loaf,  pointing  to  the  oven,  "is  where  I  was  bred." 


20  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

BROWN  BREAD. 

Three  cups  sour  milk,  two  cups  graham  flour,  two  cups  corn 
meal,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  raisins,  two  teaspoons  soda; 
steam  three  hours  or  till  done. — Mrs.  H.  F.  Adams,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  cups  graham  flour,  one  cup  corn  meal,  one  cup  wheat 
flour,  mix  flour  well  together ;  one  cup  New  Orleans  molasses, 
two  cups  sour  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  cold  coffee  or  water, 
one  heaping  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder  mixed  well  in  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  cup 
dry  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  the  sour  milk ;  put  in  well  greased 
tin  forms,  cover  closely,  place  in  boiling  water,  and  steam  con- 
stantly four  hours;  place  in  oven  few  minutes  to  dry. — Mrs. 
J.  R.  Treat,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

One  quart  of  Indian  meal,  one  quart  flour,  one  quart  butter- 
milk, one-half  cup  molasses,  one  tablespoon  of  soda,  bake  one 
hour  in  medium  oven. — Mrs.  Finney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  eggs,  three-quarters  of  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
mix  together  then  add  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  cup 
of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  stirred  into  the  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  mix  with  half  wheat  flour  and  half  corn 
meal  to  a  thick  batter  and  steam  three  hours. — Mrs.  Montgom- 
ery, Williams,  Ariz. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

For  three  small  loaves.  Three  cups  graham  flour,  one  cup 
black  N.  O.  molasses,  one  cup  sour  milk,  small  teaspoon  soda, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
pinch  of  salt ;  steam  three  hours. — Miss  Retta  Beasley,  Flagstaff, 
Ariz. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  cup  wheat  flour,  two  cups  graham  flour,  one  cup  corn 
meal,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  hot  water  and  stirred  into  molasses. 
Mix  with  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  medium  thin  batter ;  put 
in  well  greased  moulds  and  steam  two  hours  or  more. — Mrs. 
C.  M.  Glowner,  Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  21 

REAL  BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  graham  flour,  two  cups  Indian  meal,  cup  and  a 
half  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  molasses,  one  tea- 
spoon soda ;  steam  three  hours  without  moving. — Mrs.  W.  Pat- 
terson, Williams,  Ariz. 

SOUR  MILK  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  pint  corn  meal,  one  pint  graham  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
soda,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  molasses.  Mix  the  meal  with 
the  flour.  Mash  the  soda  and  salt  before  measuring;  sift  and 
mix  thoroughly  with  the  flour  and  add  the  sour  milk  and  mo- 
lasses, and  beat  well.  If  not  moist  enough  to  pour,  add  a  little 
warm  water.  Pour  into  well  greased  moulds  or  pails,  filling 
only  two-thirds  full,  cover  with  a  tight  cover  also  well  greased. 
Steam  three  hours,  set  the  pail  in  boiling  water,  keep  the  water 
boiling  and  as  it  boils  away  replenish  with  boiling  water  to  keep 
it  at  same  level.  Remove  the  cover  and  place  mould  in  oven  fif- 
teen minutes  to  dry  the  crust. — Mrs.  Maud  M.  Jones,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

STEAMED   BROWN   BREAD. 

One  cup  of  white  flour,  one  cup  of  graham  flour,  one  cup  of 
corn  meal,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one  and  one-third  cups  of 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  salt.  Steam  four  hours. 
Enough  to  steam  in  two  one-pound  coffee  cans. — Mrs.  H.  L/. 
Aphold,  Avalon,  Catalina  Island. 

DUTCH  BREAD. 

Take  enough  bread  sponge  for  one  loaf,  add  one  cupful  sugar, 
one  egg  well  beaten;  knead  and  set  to  rise.  When  risen  last 
time,  knead  into  a  loaf,  wet  the  top  with  sweet  milk  and  sprinkle 
cinnamon  over  top  of  loaf. — Miss  Mary  Spindler,  Grand 
Rapids,  Mich. 

GRAHAM  BREAD,  ONE  LOAF. 

Three  cups  graham  flour,  one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  cups  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  spoon  of 
salt.  Bake  in  moderate  oven,  try  with  broom  straw. — Mrs.  Fin- 
ney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

One-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
lukewarm  water,  one  quart  water  with  the  dissolved  yeast  cake, 
add  equal  amount  of  white  and  graha.m  flour  mixed  moderately 
stiff.  Set  to  raise.  Add  one  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful 


22  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

anise  seed,  one  small  tablespoonfnl  sugar.  Knead  moderately 
stiff  with  white  flour.  Put  in  pans  to  raise.  Bake  one  hour 
slowly.  Butter  the  top  of  the  baked  bread. — Mrs.  Chas.  New- 
berg,  Williams,  Ariz. 

"Half  a  loaf  is  better  than  no  bread." 
NUT   BREAD. 

Two  cupfuls  brown  sugar,  two  cupfuls  sweet  milk,  four  cup- 
fuls flour,  one  teacup  (or  more)  English  walnuts,  four  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt.  Beat  eggs  and 
add  sugar  slowly.  While  beating  add  flour,  milk,  baking 
powder,  nuts  and  salt.  Let  stand  one  hour  to  allow  flour  to 
swell.  Put  in  deep  cake  pans  and  bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs. 
E.  W.  Carlson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

NUT   BREAD. 

Four  cups  wheat  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking  powder  (heap- 
ing), one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  walnut 
meats  (finely  chopped).  Mix  to  stiff  sponge  with  sweet  milk. 
Divide  into  two  loaves,  put  in  pans,  raise  one-half  hour,  bake 
fortyfive  minutes. — Mrs.  Watson,  Bay  City,  Mich. 

NUT   BREAD. 

Beat  one  egg  and  add  one  cup  sugar,  then  one  and  one-half 
cups  sweet  milk  (or  more).  Sift  together  and  add  four  heap- 
ing teaspoons  baking  powder  and  four  teacups  flour,  one  cup 
chopped  walnuts.  Let  rise  in  pan  fifteen  minutes  then  bake  in 
slow  oven  one  hour.  This  quantity  makes  one  loaf  of  bread. — - 
Mrs.  G.  A.  Pearson,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

RECIPE   FOR  NUT  BREAD   NO.    1. 

\Yhen  baking  bread,  save  one  teacupful  of  yeast,  one  pint  of 
lukewarm  water,  one  egg,  small  portion  of  cinnamon  to  flavor, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon ful  of  but- 
ter, one  cupful  of  chopped  English  walnuts,  enough  flour  to 
make  into  loaves,  let.  rise,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  one  hour. — 
Mrs.  Gus  Jakle,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

RECIPE  FOR  NUT  BREAD   NO.   2. 

Three  even  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  graham  flour,  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  chopped  walnuts,  four  tea- 
spoofuls  of  baking  powder,  two  cups  of  milk  or  a  little  more, 
enough  milk  to  make  dough,  consistency  of  loaf  cake.  Bake 
one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Gus  Jakle,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  23 

NUT   BREAD. 

To  one  quart  flour  add  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
a  little  salt,  one  tablespoon  lard  and  enough  milk  to  make  stift 
dough ;  a  generous  cupful  of  nuts  and  set  to  raise  like  ordinary 
bread  for  twenty  minutes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve 
fresh.  Very  nice  for  sandwiches. — Mrs.  Thomas  S.  Haddock, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

NUT   LOAF  BREAD. 

One  cup  milk,  one  cup  nut  meats,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg, 
pinch  salt,  four  cups  flour,  four  level  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Let  raise  twenty  minutes  and  bake  in  loaves. — Miss  Kathryn 
Stark,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

QUICK  NUT  BREAD. 

Beat  one  egg,  add  one  cup  sugar  and  one  cup  sweet  milk,  sift 
together  and  add  four  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
four  teacups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teacup  chopped 
walnuts.  Let  rise  in  pan  fifteen  minutes ;  bake  in  slow  oven. — 
Mrs.  E.  P.  Pooler,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

OAT  MEAL,  BREAD. 

Make  sponge  with  one  yeast  cake,  let  stand  over  night;  add 
three  pints  warm  milk,  salt,  sugar,  one  teaspoon  lard,  dissolved 
in  milk ;  add  four  cups  Quaker  Oats,  then  stiffen  with  flour ;  let 
rise  the  second  time,  make  into  loaves  and  bake  one  hour. — 
Mrs.  George  Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

RYE    BREAD. 

Into  a  quart  of  warm  water  stir  as  much  wheat  flour  as  will 
make  a  batter  as  for  griddle  cakes ;  then  add  half  a  cup  of  home 
made  yeast  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  about 
four  quarts  of  rye  flour  in  a  mixing  pan  and  into  this  pour  the 
sponge  set  the  night  before ;  also  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in.  a  cupful  of  lukewarm 
water.  Make  into  a  smooth  dough,  adding  a  little  warm  water 
if  necessary.  Knead  it  well,  cover  and  let  stand  in  a  warm 
place  for  about  three  hours,  then  knead  again  and  make  into 
four  medium  sized  loaves.  Bake  for  one  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 
— Mrs.  George  McDougall,  Williams,  Ariz. 

The  tramp  should  never  complain  of  hunger  when  he  can  always 
enjoy  a  little  loaf. 


24  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

SALT  RISING  BREAD. 

One  pint  of  boiling  water,  salt,  soda,  and  sugar  about  the  size 
of  a  bean.  Let  stand  until  nearly  cool,  then  put  in  flour  enough 
to  make  a  batter,  and  beat  well.  Set  in  kettle  of  warm  water  to 
rise.  When  the  sponge  gets  light,  mix  like  any  other  bread  and 
put  in  pans  and  bake. — Mrs.  Martin  Buggeln,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SAI/T  RISING  BREAD. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  sweet  milk  put  into  one  pint  of  warm 
water,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  pints  of  flour,  beat 
smooth,  place  in  a  jar  and  cover.  Set  in  warm  water  and  place 
where  it  will  keep  warm,  but  not  hot.  When  it  foams  and  runs 
over  pour  into  flour  (four  pints)  and  mix  with  a  little  warm 
water,  a  teaspoonful  of  lard  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Knead,  mold 
and  let  rise:  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams, 
Cynthiana,  Ky. 

GRANDMOTHER'S    SAI/T   RISING   BREAD. 

Put  into  a  two-quart  pitcher  a  pint  of  hot  water  and  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  add  three-fourths  pint  flour,  mix  well,  set  into 
a  dish  of  warm  water,  keep  this  temperature  until  the  batter  has 
risen  to  twice  its  original  bulk — this  will  be  in  from  five  to  eight 
hours — the  batter  should  be  stirred  once  or  twice ;  then  add  a 
batter  made  of  two  and  one-half  quarts  of  flour  and  one  quart  of 
very  warm  water;  if  a  little  more  flour  is  necessary  to  make  a 
soft  dough  it  may  be  added.  Mix  well  and  place  where  warm  to 
raise;  when  light,  form  into  loaves,  keeping  the  dough  as  soft 
as  can  be  handled. — Contributed. 

"Cast  your  bread  in  the  cupboard 

And  in  a  few  days 
It  will  come  out  in  a  pudding." 

SWEDISH  RYE  BREAD. 

One  sieveful  rye  flour  scalded  with  hot  water  enough  to 
moisten,  cover  and  let  stand  one  hour;  one  pint  potato  water, 
with  dissolved  yeast  cake,  and  a  little  white  flour,  set  to  rise 
for  one  hour.  With  this  mix  the  scalded  rye  flour,  adding  one 
cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  molasses,  one-half  cupful  caraway 
seed,  little  salt.  Knead  stiff  with  white  flour,  letting  it  rise 
twice  before  baking.  Bake  slowly  one  good  hour.  Moisten 
top  with  a  little  molasses  and  water. — Mrs.  Swan  Friberg,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

WHOLE   WHEAT   BREAD. 

Two  yeast  cakes,  two  tablespoons  salt,  four  tablespoons  sugar, 
three  quarts  water,  flour  to  mix  soft.  Dissolve  yeast  cakes  in 


25 

one  cup  warm  water,  add  salt  and  sugar  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  good  batter.  Let  raise  over  night.  In  morning  put 
flour  in  bread  pan  and  knead  well.  Place  in  warm  place  until 
light  and  knead.  Repeat  process  three  times.  Mix  in  loaves 
and  let  raise  until  light.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one 
hour. — Miss  Theresa  Francisco,  Williams,  Ariz. 

"Bread  is  the  staff  of  life." 


L     'J~^&^GL*Lo~<-. 


/ 


26  TH£    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  27 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


"Dinner  may  be  pleasant; 

So  may  social  tea; 
But  yet   methinks  the  breakfast, 
Is  best  of  all  the  three." — \non. 

For  prevention  of  tooth  decay,  and  their  care,  use  a  good, 
medium  bristle,  tooth  brush  on  arising  and  before  retiring,  with 
a  good  tooth  powder  as  liquids  and  pastes  are  not  sure  to  be 
good.  Brush  the  upper  teeth  down  and  the  lower  ones  up  to 
prevent  recession  of  the  gums,  using  Peroxide  of  Hydrogen 
two  or  three  times  a  week. — Dr.  F.  H,  Waite,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

BAKED    APPLES. 

Bellefleur  apples,  wash,  cut  in  halves,  remove  core,  place 
side  by  side  in  shallow  baking  dish.  Cover  with  sugar,  sprinkle 
with  cinnamon ;  add  one  cup  boiling  water,  small  piece  of  butter 
and  a  few  raisins  on  each  apple.  Cover  all  with  ground  English 
walnuts.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  well  done. — Miss  Bertha 
Louise  Robinson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BAKED    APPLES. 

Remove  the  cores  from  tart  apples,  fill  with  brown  sugar, 
butter  (small  amount),  English  walnuts  and  allspice,  and  bake. 
This  makes  a  delicious  luncheon  dish. — Mrs.  F.  O.  Poison, 
Wiiliams,  Ariz. 

SOUR    CREAM    BISCUITS. 

To  one  pint  of  flour  add  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  level  teaspoon 
soda,  one  rounding  teaspoon  baking  powder,  mix  well,  and 
then  add  one  cup  thick  sour  cream.  Have  dough  as  soft  as  can 
be  handled,  roll  thin,  cut,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs. 
Bertha  S.  Kennedy,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

SHREDDED    WHEAT    BISCUIT    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

Warm  the  biscuit  in  the  oven  to  restore  crispness — don't 
burn — pour  hot  milk  over  it,  dripping  the  milk  over  it  until  the 
shreds  are  swollen ;  then  pour  a  little  cream  over  the  top  of  the 
biscuit.  Or,  serve  with  cold  milk  or  cream,  according  to  indi- 
vidual taste. — Contributed. 

SHREDDED   WHEAT  BISCUIT   WITH   STRAWBERRIES. 

Prepare  berries  as  for  ordinary  serving.  Warm  biscuit  in 
oven  before  using.  Cut  or  crush  oblong  cavity  in  top  of  biscuit 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  IJBRARY  ASSOCIATION  29 

to  form  basket.  Fill  the  cavity  with  berries  and  serve  with 
cream  or  milk.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Peaches,  blackberries,  rasp- 
berries, blueberries,  pineapple,  bananas,  and  other  fruit,  fresh 
or  preserved,  can  be  served  with  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  in  the 
same  way. — Contributed. 

TEA    BISCUIT. 

Place  in  your  mixing  bowl  two  cups  of  wheat  flour  with  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  well  sifted; 
one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  soft  butter,  one 
tablespoon  of  soft  lard  mixed  together  with  one  small  cup  of 
sweet  milk;  not  too  stiff.  Do  not  roll — just  smooth  evenly  with 
the  hand,  and  use  small  cutter.  Do  not  grease  your  tins.  Bake 
about  twenty  minutes  in  a  good  oven. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

TEA    BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  flour  with  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  salt ;  rub  in  butter  the  size  of  an  egg — 
or  more — mix  very  soft  with  milk.  Do  not  knead.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PLAIN    BUNS. 

Two  cups  warm  milk  and  three  eggs,  one  scant  cup  of  butter, 
a  little  salt,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cake  of  yeast.  Work 
very  hard,  with  white  flour,  knead  twice. — Mrs.  C.  Lindstrom, 
Bellemont,  Ariz. 

SPANISH  BUNS. 

One  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  sour  milk,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one-half  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon 
saleratus,  five  cents  worth  of  walnuts,  three-fourths  cup  raisins. 
Bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Fred  Terry,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

FRIED  APPLES  FOR  BREAKFAST.  . 

An  appetizing  dish  for  breakfast  is  fried  apples  and  bacon. 
Cut  the  apples  into  eighths  and  core,  but  do  not  pare.  Put  them 
into  a  frying  pan  with  a  little  water,  just  enough  to  cover,  and 
let  them  boil  until  nearly  tender.  In  the  meantime  fry  the  bacon 
and  remove  it  from  the  frying  pan  and  lay  around  the  edge  of 
a  platter.  Pour  out  some  of  the  bacon  grease,  leaving  enough 
in  the  pan  to  fry  the  apples,  which  are  turned  into  the  bacon 
pan  and  fried  to  a  delicate  brown.  When  done  pile  them  in  the 
center  of  the  platter,  letting  the  bacon  form  a  border. — Con- 
tributed. 


30  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

STUFFED    APPLES. 

Pare  and  take  out  center  and  fill  with  chopped  walnuts,  sugar 
and  butter,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  put  in  a  pan  with  a  little 
water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Schlee,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BEATEX    BISCUIT. 

Mix  one  quart  of  flour  with  two  tablespoons  of  lard  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
sifted  with  flour.  Knead  into  a  stiff  dough  with  equal  parts  of 
ice  water  and  sweet  milk,  work  with  the  hands  on  bread  board 
and  beat  with  a  mallet  until  smooth  and  glossy  or  until  it  blisters. 
Roll,  cut  into  shape,  stick  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  twenty-five  minutes. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Cyanthiana, 
Ky. 

BUTTERMILK   BISCUIT. 

One  quart  flour,  one  tablespoon  lard,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
teaspoon  soda,  and  enough  buttermilk  to  make  a  dough  which 
may  be  rolled  thin  and  cut  into  biscuit.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.— 
Mrs.  Roy  Perkins,  Williams,  Ariz. 

DROP  BISCUIT. 

Two  cups  of  flour  sifted  twice,  one  cup  of  milk,  one-fourth 
cup  of  butter  or  lard,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  lightly  and  drop  from  tablespoon  on  pan 
lightly  greased  with  butter.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Ross 
Barnard,  Williams,  Ariz. 

GRAHAM    BISCUIT. 

Sift  together,  one  pint  graham  flour,  one-half  pint  white 
wheat  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  two 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder ;  mix  thoroughly,  adding  two  table- 
spoonfuls  lard  and  one  pint  sweet  milk.  If  this  mixture  is  too 
stiff,  use  water  to  make  into  a  soft  dough.  Turn  out  upon  a 
floured  board,  pat  down,  instead  of  roll — handling  as  little  as 
possible.  Cut  into  biscuit  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven. — Mrs.  H. 
Ritter,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CORX    CAKES. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  one  egg,  sepa- 
rated ;  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  corn  meal,  one  cup  flour,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. — Mrs.  T.  M.  Rior- 
dan,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  31 

"Still    let    us    for   this   golden    corn, 
Send  up  our  thanks  to  God." 

— Whittier. 

CORN  CAKE  (That  melts  in  your  mouth). 

Mix  one  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  one-half  cup  corn  meal,  two 
level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  table- 
spoon sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  well  beaten  egg,  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter.  Bake  in  quick  oven  twenty  minutes.— Mrs.  Geo. 
Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CORN    BREAD. 

Two  cups  corn  meal,  one  cup  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  two  cups  milk,  salt,  two  eggs. — Mrs.  C.  Lamb,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

CORN    BREAD. 

One-half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  cup  corn  meal,  one  cup  wheat  flour,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar.  Sift  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar  with  flour  and  meal,  bake  in  moderate  oven  not  over  fif- 
teen or  twenty  minutes. — Miss  Eva  Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 

CORN    BREAD. 

One  quart  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  flour, 
and  corn  meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter. — Mrs.  Frank  Miller,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

CORN    BREAD. 

One  quart  sour  milk,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  and 
corn  meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter. — Mrs.  Frank  Miller,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

DUTCH   COFFEE   CAKE. 

One  quart  light  bread  sponge,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  two 
eggs,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful 
cinnamon ;  add  flour  until  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  spoon, 
let  raise  and  knead  down  again.  Put  in  bake  tins  and  pour 
melted  butter  over  top.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.— 
Mrs.  Gaddis,  Williams,  Ariz. 

GERMAN  COFFEE  CAKE. 

One  teacup  bread  dough,  small  cup  brown  sugar,  pint  of 
milk,  or  milk  and  water,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  shortening, 
tablespoon  salt ;  let  raise.  Then  add  one  cup  currants  or  rais- 
ins, tablespoon  cinnamon;  stir  stiff;  put  in  pans,  sprinkle  sugar 
and  cinnamon  over  top,  let  raise  again  and  bake. — Mrs.  H.  M. 
Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 


32  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

JOHNNY   CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  scant  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  molasses, 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one  cup  sour  milk  into  which 
has  been  dissolved  one  even  teaspoon  soda  (if  milk  is  extra  sour 
use  one  rounding  teaspoon  soda),  one-half  cup  flour;  add  corn 
meal  until  dough  is  right  consistency  to  bake. — Mrs.  E.  E. 
Tefft,  Anacortes,  Wash. 

GRIDDLE    CAKES    (without    either    milk    or   eggs). 

Beat  one  level  tablespoon  flour  smooth  with  a  little  water; 
add  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  sugar  and  one 
level  tablespoon  cottolene  or  butter;  one  cup  cold  water,  one 
and  a  half  cups  flour,  scant,  in  which  sift  one-half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  (or  one  of  cream  tartar 
and  one-half  of  soda).  Just  as  good  as  sour  milk  hot  cakes. — 
Mrs.  Atwood,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

One  pint  scalded  milk,  small  piece  of  butter,  one  pint  bread 
crumbs  (not  dried)  soaked  over  night;  rub  through  a  strainer, 
add  two  eggs,  beaten  separately ;  one  cup  flour,  one-half  spoon 
salt,  two  spoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  thin  with  cold  milk,  if 
needed.  Bake  slowly. — Mrs.  Cora  Scoville,  Mainestee,  Mich. 

GINGER  BREAD. 

One-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one  teaspoon  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  two  teaspoons  soda 
dissolved  in  one  cup  boiling  water,  two  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  two  eggs  last  thing  before  baking. — Mrs.  C.  Lamb,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

HOT    CAKES    (for   two). 

One  pint  sifted  flour^  two  tablespoonsful  corn  meal ;  mix 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  two-thirds  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
-one-half  teaspoon  sugar;  mix  dry,  then  add  sweet  milk,  stir- 
ring iri  one  egg.  Beat  all  to  a  rather  thin  batter.  Cook  on  hot 
griddle,  serve  hot  with  maple  syrup. — A.  M.  Graham,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

CORN  MEAL  FRITTERS. 

Two  cups  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoon brown  sugar,  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  corn  meal  to 
make  a  moderately  stiff  batter.  Dissolve  a  scant  teaspoon  of 
soda  in  a  little  warm  water  and  stir  into  the  batter.  Fry  and 
serve  with  maple  syrup. — Contributed. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  33 

ENGLISH  GEMS. 

Cream  one  cup  butter  with  two  cups  brown  sugar ;  add  four 
beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  one  large  cup  of 
strong  coffee,  one  cup  molasses,  four  cups  sifted  flour,  one- 
half  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg,  allspice,  cloves  and  mace,  two 
teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar  sifted  with  one-half  cup  flour, 
one  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup  each  currants  and  chopped  citron. 
Mix  well  and  fill  buttered  gem  pans  one-half  full  and  bake. 
Serve  hot  with  butter. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter,  Hackensack, 
N.  J. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

Mix  with  thin  cream  or  milk  to  stiff  batter,  one  pint  graham 
flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons salt,  one-half  teacup  brown  sugar  (white  will  do),  one 
egg.  If  cream  is  not  obtainable,  use  milk  and  piece  of  butter 
size  of  egg.  Bake  in  greased  tins. — Mrs.  McDonald  Robin- 
son, Williams,  Ariz. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  buttermilk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two 
tablespons  butter  or  lard,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  soda 
(level),  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  (heaping)  ;  thicken  with 
clear  graham  flour. — Mrs.  Watson,  Bay  City,  Mich. 

"JOLLY  BOYS." 

One  and  one-half  pints  rye  meal,  one-half  pint  flour,. one- 
half  cup  corn  meal,  one  egg,  well  beaten ;  little  cinnamon,  little 
salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  each  of 
molasses  arid  sugar,  and  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  thick 
batter.  Fry  in  deep  lard  or  cottolene,  a  tablespoon  at  a  time, 
until  browned  well ;  and  drain  on  paper. — Contributed. 

SALLY   LUXN    (with   Yeast). 

Pour  two  cups  of  scalded  milk  over  two  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter and  sugar,  each ;  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  when  lukewarm  put 
in  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  of  warm  water. 
Beat  three  or  four  eggs,  add  to  the  batter  made  by  stirring  in 
flour  until  stiff  batter  is  made.  Let  rise,  put  in  shallow  pans 
and  let  rise  again,  then  bake  and  serve  hot.  Cut  as  you  would 
cut  a  pie. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Cynthiana,  Ky. 

SALLY  LUX. 

One  pint  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk  (or  sour  milk  and  soda,) 
and  baking  powder,  one-fourth  tablespoon  melted  butter,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  pinch  salt,  two 


34  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

eggs,   well  beaten.      Bake   in  greased  gem  pans. — Mrs.    Mc- 
Donald Robinson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SALLY  LUNN  (with  Yeast  and  Eggs). 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two 
teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  and  one-half  of  soda.  Mix 
soda  and  cream  of  tartar  with  milk.  Put  this  stiff  batter  into 
piepans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Pile  them  one  a  plate  with 
melted  butter  between  and  cut  through  as  you  would  serve  a 
pie;  serve  hot. — Mrs.  K.  \V.  Williams,  Cynthiana,  Ky. 

MUFFINS. 

One  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one  cupful  sweet 
milk,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  flour  with  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder.  Bake  twenty  minutes  or  more  in  gem 
tins. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

Two  cupfuls>of  graham  flour,  one  cupful  wheat  flour,  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  one  egg,  beaten  well ;  one  cup  milk.  Lastly,  add  about 
one-half  cup  milk. — Miss  Elva  Burns,  Cliffs,  Ariz. 

MUFFINS. 

Two  cups  sifted  flour,  four  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 
and  one  level  teaspoon  salt,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon cottolene,  one  egg  and  one  cup  milk.  Bake  in  muffin 
pans. — Mrs.  F.  W.  Smith,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BREAKFAST   MUFFINS. 

One-third  cup  butter,  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  egg,  three-fourths  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour, 
four  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar, 
add  the  beaten  egg,  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  flour  which  has 
been  sifted  with  the  baking  powder.  Bake  in  buttered  gem 
pans  about  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes. — A  Friend,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

HAM   MUFFINS. 

Sift  together  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar; 
add  one  cup  of  finely  minced  ham  (one- fourth  fat)  and  mix  to 
a  batter  with  one  well  beaten  egg  and  one  cup  of  milk.  Put  in 
heated  and  greased  muffin  tins  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven. — Mrs.  C. 'A.  Collett  (nee  Mrs.  Simpson).  Cali- 
fornia. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  35 

MUFFINS. 

Two  eggs,  three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  two  tablespoons 
corn  meal,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  pinch  salt. 
Beat  eggs  and  add  last  thing. — Miss  Mary  E.  Walker,  Flagstaff, 
Ariz. 

ONE   EGG   MUFFINS. 

Two  cups  flour,  two  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons melted  butter,  one  egg,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
sugar.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  slowly,  then 
egg  well  beaten,  and  melted  butter;  bake  in  buttered  gem  pans 
about  twenty-five  minutes.  If  iron  pans  are  used,  heat  thor- 
oughly before  putting  in  the  mixture.  This  amount  makes 
fifteen  muffins. — Miss  Katherine  Wells,  Glendale,  Calif. 

RICE  MUFFINS. 

Make  a  batter  of  one  quart  milk,  three  eggs,  well  beaten; 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of 
flour  with  two  scant  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  .Sift,  mix 
thoroughly,  then  beat  in  a  cupful  of  cold  cooked  rice.  Beat 
very  hard  for  five  minutes  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve 
hot. — Mrs.  H.  Ritter,  Williams,  Ariz. 

RICE  MUFFINS. 

Two  cups  flour,  three- fourths  cup  cooked  rice  (hot),  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  cup 
milk,  one  egg,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt.  Method — Sift  and  mix  flour,  salt  and  baking  pow- 
der. Beat  in  one-half  the  milk,  the  well  beaten  egg,  the  re- 
mainder of  the  milk  with  the  rice  and  beat  thoroughly  and 
quickly ;  then  add  the  butter.  Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans 
in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Richardson,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

RICE  MUFFINS. 

Sift  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  scant  one- fourth  cup  of  sugar;  beat 
one  egg,  add  one  cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  hot,  boiled  rice, 
mixed  with  three. tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  stir  well  and 
bake  in  muffin  tins. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PUFFS  OR  POP  OVERS. 

Two  cups  milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  beaten  separately ; 
one  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  salt  with  flour,  mix  the  beaten  yolks 


36  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

with  the  milk,  adding  slowly  to  make  smooth  batter.  Lastly 
fold  in  the  beaten  whites,  put  batter  at  once  in  the  hot  greased 
gem  tins,  filling  half  full.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  not  over  thirty 
minutes.  Serve  at  once. — Contributed,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

POP  OVERS. 

Four  eggs,  two  cupfuls  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  and 
one-fourth  cupfuls  sweet  milk.  Beat  eggs  with  Dover  beater 
for  ten  minutes;  add  flour  slowly  and  beat  hard  again,  then 
last  add  milk,  a  little  at  a  time.  After  the  ingredients  are  all 
together,  beat  hard  for  fully  five  minutes.  Use  Dover  beater 
entirely.  Pour  into  oiled,  warm  tins,  and  bake  in  pretty  hot 
oven  for  ten  minutes,  and  have  oven  not  quite  so  hot  for  next 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  This  makes  twelve. — Miss  Char- 
lotte Wickstram,  Hartford,  Conn. 

POP  OVERS. 

One  cup  flour,  seventh-eighths  cup  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  one  teaspoon  melted  butter,  two  eggs.  Mix  salt  in  flour, 
add  milk  slowly,  then  eggs  and  butter ;  beat  two  to  five  minutes ; 
bake  thirty  minutes  in  heavy  gem  pans  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  E.  M. 
Victor,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

POP  OVERS  OR  MUFFINS. 

Three  eggs,  beaten  until  creamy ;  one  cup  fresh  milk,  one-half 
spoonful  salt,  one-half  spoonful  baking  powder,  one  cup  flour. 
Butter  deep  tins  and  fill  half  full  and  bake. — Mr.s.  Wm.  Wente, 
Manistee,  Mich. 

POTATO  PANCAKES. 

Grate  six  potatoes;  two  eggs,  salt,  flour  to  make  a  batter. 
Fry  like  other  cakes. — Mrs.  Henriette  Buggeln,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ROLLS. 

One  quart  bread  flour,  two  good  tablespoons  cottolene,  two 
tablespoons  sugar,  salt,  one-half  compressed  yeast  cake,  one 
pint  new  milk,  previously  scalded  and  cooled.  Rub  cottolene 
into  flour,  sugar  and  salt,  add  yeast  cake  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Should  be  about  as  stiff  as  batter  can  be  beaten ;  raise  in  a  closely 
covered  vessel.  \Yhen  light,  beat  down  thoroughly,  let  rise. 
Continue  this  process  three  or  more  times — then  toss  lightly 
on  a  well  floured  board  (but  do  not  knead).  The  batter  will 
shape  itself  into  a  dough  which  can  be  easily  rolled.  Roll  about 
one-half  inch  thick,  cut,  butter  one  half,  lap,  let  raise  until  light 
enouo-h  to  bake.  Oven  a  Tittle  hotter  than  for  bread. — Mrs. 

o 

T.  A.  Barney,  New  Haven,  Conn. 


WILUAMS  PUBIJC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  37 

ROLLS. 

To  make  about  sixty.  One  pint  water,  one  cup  yeast,  one 
tablespoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one-half  cup  melted  but- 
ter, one-half  cup  melted  lard,  good  quart  flour.  Start  in  the 
morning,  kneading  down  when  light.  At  4  o'clock  p.  m.,  make 
in  rolls. 

Yeast. — Four  tablespoons  flour,  two  potatoes  mashed,  scald 
with  potato  water  (about  one  quart),  and  when  cool  add  yeast 
cake. — Mrs.  Baker,  Manistee,  Mich. 

ROLLS. 

Sift  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with  a  quart  of 
flour,  adding  two  teaspoons  of  sugar  and  one  of  salt.  Rub 
into  this  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  stir  in  last  of  all,  one 
well  beaten  egg.  Mix  to  a  dough  with  two  cupfuls  of  cold 
sweet  milk,  roll  out  to  half-inch  thickness  and  cut  in  rounds 
about  the  size  of  a  tea  saucer.  Spread  softened  butter  over  the 
tops,  then  fold  one  half  over  the  other.  Put  them  in  a  baking 
pan  so  they  do  not  touch  each  other  and  bake  until  brown  in  a 
hot  oven. — Mrs.  George  McDougall,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CINNAMON    ROLLS. 

One-half  yeast  cake,  one  cup  water,  make  sponge  as  for 
bread,  let  rise  over  night.  In  morning  take  one  pint  milk 
and  warm  one-half  cup  shortening  (one-half  butter  and  .one- 
half  lard),  one-half  cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  beaten  light.  Mix 
all  together  with  sponge.  Add  flour  a  little  at  a  time,  beat  well 
until  stiff  enough  to  handle  with  spoon,  let  rise.  When 
light,  spread  on  bread  board  (little  at  a  time)  ;  spread  on  but- 
ter, sugar,  cinnamon  and  currants,  roll  and  cut  in  one-inch 
strips,  let  rise  in  pans.  Bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  When 
taken  from  oven  spread  butter,  sugar,  cinnamon  over  top. — 
Mrs.  John  Juhl,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CINNAMON   ROLLS. 

One  pint  milk,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
yeast  cake.  Stir  in  flour,  not  too  stiff ;  when  light,  work  in  two 
eggs ;  let  it  raise  again,  roll  out  to  an  inch  in  thickness ;  spread 
thick  with  butter,  sprinkle  plentifully  with  sugar,  then  English 
currants  and  cinnamon,  then  roll  as  for  jelly  cake.  Cut  off 
slice  about  two  inches  thick  and  let  raise  and  bake. — Mrs. 
Wente,  Manistee,  Mich. 

DINNER  ROLLS. 

Put  sauce  pan  on  the  fire  with  one  quart  rich,  sweet  cream ; 
one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one  salt- 


38  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

spoonful  salt.  Let  it  come  to  a  good  scald.  Remove  and  when 
lukewarm,  add  one  whole  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  half  cup  of 
the  warm  milk.  Stir  in  two  quarts  of  sifted  wheat  flour,  a 
little  at  a  time ;  after  flour  is  all  stirred  in.  beat  hard  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Cover  tight  and  keep  warm.  Set  for  four  hours  or 
more,  then  add  another  tablespoonful  butter,  one  whole  egg, 
then  beat  hard  again  for  fifteen  minutes.  Set  to  rise  for  two 
hours.  Grease  roll  tins,  put  light  dough  on  the  baking 
board  with  tiny  bit  of  flour  sprinkled  over  it.  Roll  out  one- 
fourth  inch  thick,  brush  with  melted  butter,  cut  with  roll  cutter, 
fold  double  and  brush  top  again  with  melted  butter.  Set  to  rise 
slowly  in  a  warm  place  for  two  hours  or  more.  Bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  for  about  twelve  minutes ;  serve  hot. — 
Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

EGG  ROLLS. 

One  pint  flour,  one  round  tablespoon  butter,  one  level  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  level 
tablespoon  sugar,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  milk. — Miss  Lela  Mor- 
rison, Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

One  pint  of  milk,  scalded;  put  into  it  while  hot  one-half  cup 
of  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  of 'butter;  when  the  milk  is  cool 
add  a  little  salt  and  one-half  cup  of  yeast  or  one-half  yeast  cake. 
Make  a  sponge,  and  when  light,  mix  as  for  bread.  Let  it  rise 
until  light,  punch  it  down  with  the  hand  and  let  it  rise  again. 
Repeat  two  or  three  times.  Turn  the  dough  on  the  moulding 
board  and  pound  with  rolling  pin  until  thin  enough  to  cut; 
spread  melted  butter  over  top,  cut  and  fold  over.  Let  it  rise  on 
tins,  bake  and  brush  with  melted  butter. — Mrs.  G.  J.  Shoff, 
Maine,  Ariz. 

SOUTHERN   ROLLS. 

Into  about  one  pound  of  light  bread  dough,  work  thoroughly 
a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  large  egg ;  let  rise,  then  shape,  roll  in 
melted  butter  and  sift  corn  meal  over;  then  let  rise  and  bake  in 
hot  oven. — Mrs.  G.  \Y.  Glowner,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SQUASH    ROLLS. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  mashed  squash,  one  egg,  two  table- 
spoons sugar,  pinch  salt,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder ;  milk  to  make  medium  thick  batter.  Bake  in  muffin 
tins. — :Mrs.  T.  A.  Barney,  Xew  Haven,  Conn. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  39 

SOUR   MILK   RTJSK. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  three  cups  sifted 
flour,  one  pound  raisins,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon 
cloves,  a  little  nutmeg.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  eggs 
separately  and  add  to  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  soda  to  milk 
and  alternate  with  the  flour.  Chop  raisins  and  add.  Then  add 
the  spices.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  as 
a  coffee  cake.  This  is  delicious. — Mrs.  E.  M.  Smith,  Thomas- 
ville,  Ga. 

SWEDISH   SUGAR  RUSKS. 

One-half  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water;  one  quart 
sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  white  flour  enough  to 
make  it  stiff;  set  to  raise ;  one  coffeecupful  sugar,  one  coffeecup- 
ful  sweet  cream,  one-half  coffeecupful  butter,  two  yolks  eggs, 
little  Anise-seed.  Knead  with  flour  enough  to  put  to  rise  in 
pans.  Next  day  when  cold,  cut  the  loaf  in  two  lengthwise,  also 
cut  in  slices.  Put  in  slow  oven  and  bake  brown. — Mrs.  Chas. 
Newberg,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SCOTCH  SCONES. 

Sift  one  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  one 
teaspoon  soda  mixed  with  one  pint  of  sour  milk.  Mix  to  a  soft 
dough.  Lay  on  a  well  floured  baking  board  and  roll  one  inch 
thick.  Cut  with  a  round  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  on  a  hot  greased 
griddle  until  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  hot  with  butter.— 
Miss  Ann  Smith,  Syracuse,  N.Y. 

EGG  TOAST. 

Make  nice  toast;  dip  for  half  a  minute  into  hot  milk,  well 
salted.  Make  cream  dressing,  to  which  add  carefully  the  whites 
of  three  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced  very  fine.  Place  this  dressing 
on  top  of  toast  and  sprinkle  over  each  slice  a  portion  of  the 
grated  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  A.  O.  Wheeler, 
Manistee,  Mich. 

VIENNA  TOAST. 

For  each  small  slice  of  bread  allow  one  fresh  egg ;  beat  eo-a-s 
until  light  and  roll  bread  in  same ;  have  ready  on  stove  a  frying 
pan  in  which  put  a  large  piece  of  butter ;  when  butter  is  brown, 
add  bread  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  To  be  served  hot. — 
Mrs.  G.  W.  Glowner,  Williams,  Ariz. 


40  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

WAFFLES. 

Two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
three  eggs  beaten  separately.  Mix  flour,  baking  powder  and 
salt  together,  mix  yolks  (beaten)  with  milk,  melted  butter, 
flour  and  lastly  beaten  whites.  Have  the  waffle  iron  clean  and 
thoroughly  heated  on  both  sides,  and  well  greased,  closing  the 
iron  so  that  the  grease  will  cover  every  part.  Fill  each  section 
two-thirds  full,,  cook  a  minute  or  two  on  each  side.  Serve  hot. 
— Contributed,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

WAFFLES. 

Three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar  ,one  teaspoon 
salt,  four  eggs,  well  beaten;  two  and  one-half  cups  milk,  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  soda  in  little  hot 
water.  Beat  thoroughly.  Enough  for  four  or  five. — Mrs.  C.  F. 
Philbrook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

WAFFLES. 

Three  pints  of  flour,  three  eggs,  well  beaten  (separately)  ; 
one  level  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  level  teaspoonful  of 
soda ;  mix  with  sweet  milk,  or  leave  out  cream  of  tartar,  and  use 
sour  milk.  Pour  into  waffle  irons  and  bake. — Mrs.'K.  W.  Wil- 
liams, Cynthiana,  Ky. 

WAFFLES. 

One  coffee  cup  warm  milk,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  pinch  salt,  flour  to  make  soft  batter, 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  two  even  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Beat  thoroughly  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Cook  on  hot  waffle 
iron. — Contributed. 

WAFFLES. 

Sift  one  and  one-half  cups  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  one-half  cup 
cornstarch,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Beat  up  two  eggs,  add  one  and  one-half  cups 
milk  to  them,  then  add  gradually  to  the  flour,  mix  in  one  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  melted  butter.  Fry  on  a  hot,  well  greased 
waffle  iron.  Serve  hot  with  syrup. — Oswego,  N.  Y. 

CRISP    WAFFLES. 

One  quart  of  milk,  heated,  with  one-fourth  pound  of  butter, 
let  cool ;  add  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  one  heaping  pint  of 
flour,  three  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  to  latter  just  before 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  41 

using.  Pour  into  hot  waffle  iron  and  cook  two  or  three  minutes 
on  each  side.  (Large  recipe.) — Mrs.  E.  A.  Coleman,  Wichita, 
Kans. 

PUFFS. 

One  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk;  two  eggs,  a  little 
salt,  and  a  little  melted  butter.  Beat  thoroughly  and  bake  in 
muffin  tins,  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  tewenty  minutes. — Mrs. 
Langton,  Monroe,  Mich. 


/7tt/)C*>«-*'Y» 


ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


___  .  . 

"C    '    ^T  /> 


- 

A?LL/  &* 


C  .         '    :    . 


/       / 

_  • 


_, . 


- — - 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 

/ 


CAKES 


"Only  Tyndall  can  explain 
The  links  between  the  cake  and  brain; 
Get  your  husband  what  he  likes 
And  save  a  hundred  household  strikes! 
Give  him  all  he  wants  to  eat, 
Make   his   disposition   sweet." 

TO  BAKE  CAKE. 

How  hot  should  the  oven  be  for  cake,  and  how  can  one  tell 
when  a  cake  is  ready  to  be  taken  out  ?  asks  Mrs.  E.  D.  There 
is  probably  no  other  place  in  cooking  where  so  much  depends  on 
the  baking  as  in  making  cake.  The  fire  must  be  sufficient  to  last 
through  the  entire  baking,  and  yet  it  should  not  be  as  hot  as  for 
baking  bread.  If  the  oven  seems  too  hot,  leave  the  door  open 
for  a  few  minutes  before  putting  in  the  cake.  Then  carefully 
watch  it,  and  if  necessary,  put  the  asbestos  baking  sheets  below 
and  above  to  protect  it  from  too  great  heat.  Thin  cakes  require 
a  hotter  oven  than  those  baked  in  loaves,  and  if  the  oven  be  not 
hot  enough  at  first,  or  be  cooled  constantly  during  the  baking, 
the  cake  is  apt  to  be  heavy. 

Thin  cakes  should  bake  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes; 
thicker  ones  from  thirty  to  forty,  and  whichever  kind  you  are 
baking,  divide  the  required  time  into  quarters.  During  the  first 
quarter  the  cake  should  continue  to  rise,  during  the  second  it 
should  begin  to  brown  a  little,  during  the  third  it  should  brown 
evently,  and  in  the  last,  shrink  from  the  pan.  If  the  cake  browns 
before  rising  the  oven  is  too  hot.  If  the  cake  rises  in  the  center 
and  cracks  open  it  is  too  stiff  with  flour.  In  telling  whether  it  is 
done  or  not,  press  it  with  your  finger  lightly.  If  it  comes  back  it 
is  apt  to  be  done ;  if  the  depression  stays  in,  the  cake  is  not  en- 
tirely done ;  or  take  it  from  the  oven  and  listen  to  it :  a  pro- 
nounced ticking  or  wet  sound  means  that  the  cake  is  not  yet 
baked. — Good  Housekeeping. 

ALTITUDE  CAKE. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk, 
two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one,  two  or  three 
eggs,  saving  whites  of  one  or  two  for  frosting.  One  whole  egg 
will  make  a  good  cake.  Two  yolks  and  white  of  one  a  better 
cake.  Yolks  of  three  and  whites  of  one  or  two  the  best  cake. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  yolks  and  cream  more,  add 
baking  powder  to  flour  and  alternately  mix  milk  and  flour  with 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  45 

creamed  mixture.  Beat  thoroughly,  adding  last,  the  well  beaten 
whites.  As  a  layer  cake,  any  sort  of  filling  may  be  used.  An 
excellent  marble  cake  may  be  made  by  coloring  half  the  batter 
with  melted  chocolate  and  dropping  alternate  spoonfuls  of  white 
and  brown  batter  in  loaf  pan.  Cover  top  with  chocolate  icing 
and  nut  meats  or  cocoanut  sprinkled  on.  Spices  and  raisins  may 
be  added  and  an  excellent  cake  is  made  by  adding  one  cup  Eng- 
lish currants. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Philbrook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

HIGH  ALTITUDE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  two  level  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt.  Put  all 
together  in  sifter  and  sift,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  melted 
butter ;  break  in  cup  two  eggs  and  fill  up  with  water,  add  to  the 
rest  and  beat  well.  Bake  either  in  layers  or  loaf. 

Note. — When  melted  butter  is  used,  the  butter  should  be 
melted  before  measuring.- — Mrs.  Finney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ANGEL    CAKE. 

Beat  stiff  the  cold  whites  of  twelve  eggs  with  a  pinch  of  salt, 
fold  in — not  beat — one  and  one-half  tumblers  granulated  sugar 
gradually,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  slowly,  then  one  tumbler  flour 
which  has  been  sifted  five  times  with  one  scant  teaspoon  cream 
tartar.  Put  in-  a  tube  pan — not  greased,  and  bake  about  forty 
minutes,  in  a  moderate  oven  without  opening  the  door.  When 
taken  from  the  oven,  turn  upside  down  to  cool.  After  it  drops 
from  pan,  frost  with  any  plain  icing.  Have  house  and  kitchen 
very  quiet  when  baking,  avoiding  any  draft,  or  the  cake  will 
fall. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ANGEL    CAKE. 

Whites  of  nine  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  cupfuls  granulated 
sugar,  one  cupful  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  add 
pinch  of  salt  to  the  eggs  before  whipping;  flavor  to  taste.  Sift, 
measure  and  set  aside  the  sugar  and  flour.  Whip  the  eggs  to  a 
foam,  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  whip  until  very  stiff ;  add  the 
sugar  to  this  and  fold  in,  always  using  a  spoon;  then  flavor  and 
fold  in,  then  flour  and  fold  it  lightly  through.  Put  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  at  once.  It  will  bake  in  about  twenty-five  or  thirty 
minutes;  it  should  not  take  longer,  as  baking  too  long 
dries  it  out  and  makes  the  cake  tough  and  dry.  Always  put  in 
a  moderate  oven — too  hot  for  butter  cakes,  and  not  hot  enough 
for  biscuits.  If  the  cake  is  properly  mixed  it  will  rise  above  the 
pan.  When  it  is  baked  enough  it  begins  to  shrink,  and  should 


46  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

shrink  back  to  the  level  of  the  pan.  Watch  carefully  at  this 
stage,  and  when  it  begins  to  shrink,  take  out  of  the  oven  and  in- 
vert the  tin  immediately,  resting  on  the  center  tube;  let  hang 
until  perfectly  cold,  then  cut  the  cake  loose  from  around  the 
sides  and  the  center  tube.  Knock  back  the  slide,  insert  your 
knife  and  cut  loose  from  the  bottom;  turn  out.  Ice  with  plain 
white  frosting. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter,  Trout  Creek,  Mich. 

ANGEL    CAKE. 

Whites  of  nine  large  eggs,  or  ten  small  ones,  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  granulated  sugar,,  one  cup  flour,  scant  one-half 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  a  pinch  of  salt  added  to  the  eggs 
before  whipping.  Flavor  to  taste.  Sift  four  times,  measure 
and  set  aside  sugar  and  flour,  whip  eggs  to  foam,  add  cream 
tartar,  and  whip  until  very  stiff,  add  sugar  and  beat  in  (always 
using  a  spoon  to  mix  cakes  with),  then  add  flour  and  fold  it 
lightly  through.  Put  in  moderate  oven,  will  bake  in  twenty  to 
forty  minutes.  I  always  have  best  of  results  with  this  recipe, 
but"  am  particular  about  directions.  Frost  as  any  cake.  Turn 
cake  upside  down  when  done. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Dennis,  San  Jose, 
Calif. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE. 

One  pint  of  whites  of  eggs,  one-half  pound  flour,  one  pound 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  flavoring.— W.  A.  Field, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

APPLE    SAUCE    CAKE. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sweetened  apple  sauce,  two  level  teaspoon f tils  of  soda 
mixed  with  apple  sauce,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup  of  raisins  or 
dates  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Bake  in  loaf. — Miss 
Behringer,  Adrian,  Mich. 

APPLE    SAUCE    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups 
unsweetened  .pple  sauce,  two  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  sauce, 
one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one-half  tea- 
spoon cloves,  one-half  cup  raisins  or  currants,  two  cups  flour. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  sauce.  Sift  the  flour 
and  spices  together,  then  add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  G.  A.  Pearson,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

APPLE    SAUCE    CAKE. 

Two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  soda,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoon  cloves,  three  tablespoons  chocolate,  two  teaspoons 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  47 

cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch.  Sift  this  into  two  cups 
apple  sauce ;  stir  well,  and  add  one  cup  floured  raisins,  one-half 
cup  nuts,  one-half  cup  melted  butter.  Bake  slowly  in  shallow 
pan. — Mrs.  Walsh,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

APPLE    SAUCE    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups 
apple  sauce  (not  sweetened),  two  teaspoons  soda,  dissolved  in 
apple  sauce ;  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  cloves, 
one  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one  cup  raisins  or  currants,  one  cup  Eng- 
lish walnuts,  two  cups  flour. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Campbell,  Flagstaff, 
Ariz. 

DRIED    APPLE  CAKE. 

Three  cups  dried  apples,  three  cups  molasses,  one  pound 
brown  sugar,  one  pound  raisins,  three  eggs,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  cup  butter,  one  teaspoon ful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon, 
one  tablespoonful  soda.  Chop  the  dried  apples  fine,  let  stand 
over  night  in  water.  In  the  morning  put  apples  into  molasses, 
stand  on  back  of  stove  for  three  hours.  Then  add  the  other  in- 
gredients.— Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BOILED    CAKE. 

One-half  package  of  raisins,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  cup  cold  water,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Put  on 
stove  and  let  come  to  boil.  Let  get  cold  so  that  flour  will  not 
cook  when  added.  Then  add  two  cups  flour  and  bake  one  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven. — Miss  Helen  T.  Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BROWN    CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one  small  cup  sour 
cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  (small),  one  teaspoon 
soda,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cin- 
namon, cloves  and  nutmeg.  Beat  separately  three  eggs,  one 
pound  finely  chopped  raisins  and  one  cup  of  nuts.  Use  more 
butter  if  you  haven't  cream. — Mrs.  Albert  Lebsch,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

CARAMEL   CAKE. 

»  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  sweet  milk,  yolk  one  egg,  add  one-half  cup  grated 
chocolate,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  then  add  one  cup  brown 
sugar,  one-half  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one- 


48  Tllli    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  three  table- 
spoons cold  water,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour.    Bake  in  layers. 

Fttling. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  water,  butter 
size  of  egg.  Cook  until  creamy,  and  spread. — Mrs.  C.  M. 
Wolfe,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CARAMEL,   CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  two  cups  flour,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  this  with  your  hands,  take  out 
of  this  one  cup,  then  add  to  the  rest  two  eggs  and  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk.  Then  put  in  a  pan  and  sprinkle  on  top  the  cupful 
that  you  have  taken  out,  and  bake  in  a  slow,  even  oven  about 
forty-five  minutes.  When  done,  leave  in  pan. — Mrs.  Fred 
Terry,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

CAKE   WITHOUT   EGGS. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  flour  well 
sifted;  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  (level)  cin- 
namon, one  teaspoon  (level)  grated  nutmeg,  one  cup  milk, 
one  cup  seeded  raisins  (chopped).  Bake  in  square  tins  thirty 
minutes. — Mrs.  Dan  Smith,  Grand  Canyon,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE  LOAF,  OR  DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar  (pulverized),  one-half  cup  butter,  three  eggs, 
one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  va- 
nilla, one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  squares  Baker's  choco- 
late. Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  yolks  of  eggs, 
beaten  very  lightly  with  egg  beater.  After  melting  the  choco- 
late with  two  or  three  tablespoons  hot  water  add  it  to  eggs, 
butter  and  sugar,  after  which  add  milk  and  flour,  then  the 
well  beaten  whites.  Do  not  stir  much  after  the  whites  have 
been  added. — Mrs.  F.  O.  Poison,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

Filling  to  be  made  first  and  when  cold  beat  in  cake.  One  cup 
chocolate,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg  (yolk), 

Cake  Part :  Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
milk,  six  eggs,  flour  about  one  and  one-half  cups — you  can  tell 
by  the  stiffness  of  batter.  One  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Safe 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  for  frosting,  one  from  cake  part  and  one 
from  filling  part.  Frost  cake  with  chocolate  frosting. — Mrs. 
S.  T.  Elliott,  Kingman.  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  49 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  (scant)  ; 
cream  together,  two  eggs  beaten  until  light,  one-half  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  bread  flour,  one  rounded  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  two  squares  chocolate  (melted)  or  one- 
half  cup  cocoa  (dry),  large  one-half  cup  walnut  meats,  vanilla 
flavoring.  Bake  about  thirty  minutes  in  slow  oven,  as  it  burns 
easily. — Mrs.  Watson,  Bay  City,  Mich. 

BLACK   CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  four  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  three- fourths  pound  grated,  unsweetened  chocolate; 
pour  over  chooclate  one  cup  hot  water,  two  teaspoons  vanilla. 
Bake  in  dripping  pan.  Good  either  with  or  without  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Brydon,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

Cream  together  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  scant ;  three  squares  chocolate,  melted  over  hot  water ; 
three  eggs,  beaten ;  flavoring,  one  cup  water,  two  cups  flour,  one 
rounding  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers. — Mrs.  F.  W. 
Smith,  Williams,  Ariz. 

THE   PKEIDENT'S   CHRISTMAS   CAKE. 

The  cake  is  made  as  follows :  One  pound  of  butter,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour  browned  and  sifted,  twelve 
eggs  beaten  separately,  five  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  shredded  citron  peel,  one  glass  of  grape 
jelly,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  chocolate,  one  pound  of  crys- 
tallized cherries,  one  pound  of  crystallized  diced  pineapple,  one 
pound  of  blanched  almonds  cut  fine,  one  pound  of  shelled  pe- 
cans cut  small,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon,  one 
scant  tablespoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  one-half  tablespoonful 
of  allspice,  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cloves,  one  glass 
of  grape  juice  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  rose  water.  Soak  the 
almonds  over  night  in  the  rose  water,  and  the  fruit  in  the  grape 
juice  for  the  same  length  of  time.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
thoroughly,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the 
spices,  grape  jelly  and  chocolate.  Next  add  the  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  part  of  the  flour.  Roll  the  fruit  in  the  rest  of 
the  flour,  mixing  it  into  the  cake  in. small  quantities  at  a  time. 
Add  the  nuts  last.  Bake  or  steam  the  cake  from  four  to  six 
hours  in  small  or  large  moulds.  If  steamed,  dry  off  iln  a  slow 
oven  for  one  hour. — Betty  Lyle  \Yilson,  in  Ladies'  Home 
Journal. 


50  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

MRS.  ERGMAXX.  JR.'S  CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  yolks 
of  eggs,  save  whites  for  icing ;  one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  one 
cake  chocolate,  melted ;  flavor  with  vanilla,  two  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  and  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  bake. 

Icing  for  Cake. 

Whites  of  three  eggs  and  powdered  sugar  (do  not  beat  eggs 
before  using  sugar),  put  a  handful  of  sugar  on  whites  of  eggs 
before  beating;  use  enough  sugar  to  make  icing  as  hard 
as  wanted. — Mrs.  Ergnann,  Jr.,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

RICH   CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter  and  add  gradually  while  beating 
constantly,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one- 
half  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda  mixed  with  one 
tablespoon  cold  water  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Melt  four  squares  unsweetened  chocolate,  add  two-thirds 
cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg.  Cook  in  dou- 
ble boiler  until  thick ;  when  cool,  add  to  first  mixture.  Add  one 
and  one-half  cups  walnut  meats,  and  one-half  cup  citron  cut  in 
small  pieces,  two  -teaspoons  vanilla.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
in  loaf  forty-five  minutes. — Mrs.  J.  D.  La  Chance,  Winslow, 
Ariz. 

STIRRED  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three-fourths 
cup  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  whole  egg,  two  cups 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  four  squares  Baker's 
chocolate  grated.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs 
well  beaten,  then  milk  and  flour  and  lastly  the  chocolate 
which  must  be  dissolved  with  hot  water.  Beat,  bake  in  two 
layers,  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing,  or  chocolate  icing 
with  nuts  in.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  George  Swigart, 
Manistee,  Mich. 

CHOCOLATE    MARSIIMALLOW    CAKE. 

Ingredients : — One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one-half 
cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one-fourth  cake  chocolate,  one-half  cup  boiling  water, 
one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Method : — Dissolve  the  chocolate 
in  the  water.  Cream  the  butter  and  add  gradually  one- 
half  the  sugar.  Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  then  gradually 
add  remaining  sugar.  Combine  mixtures  and  add  alternately 


WIUJAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  51 

milk  and  flour  mixed,  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Then  add 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  the  melted  chocolate  and  vanilla. 
Bake  forty-five  to  fifty  minutes  in  cake  pan  with  a  tube.  Cover 
with  marshmallow  frosting. — -Mrs.  W.  A.  Richardson,  Los 
Angeles,  Calif. 

COCOA   CAKE. 

One  and  three-fourths  cups  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  but- 
ter, creamed  together ;  teaspoonful  vanilla,  three-fourths  cup  of 
cocoa,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  in  milk,  two 
cups  of  flour. — Mrs.  G.  A.  Haslett,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

QUICK   COFFEE   CAKE. 

One  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  four  teaspoons 'melted  butter,  one  egg  well 
beaten,  one-half  cup  milk.  Mix  dry  ingredients  well,  add  melted 
butter,  then  egg ;  stir  well,  add  milk.  Put  in  well  buttered  pan, 
moisten  top  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and 
sugar,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Miss  Katharine  Wells, 
Glendale,  Calif. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

One  egg,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses, two-thirds  cup  cold  strong  coffee,  one  cup  raisins,  one- 
half  cup  English  currants,  one  tablespoon  cloves,  one  tablespoon 
cinnamon,  one  grated  nutmeg,  one  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  four 
cups  flour.  Try  in  a  small  tin  to  make  sure  it  is  the  right  thick- 
ness before  baking. — Mrs.  W.  W.  Bass,  Grand  Canyon,  Ariz. 

COFFEE   CAKE    (without   Eggs). 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one  cup  cold  coffee,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  chopped  raisins, 
spices  one  teaspoon  each,  flour  enough  to  make  quite  stiff. — 
Mrs.  H.  M.  Stark,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

COFFEE   CAKE. 

One  cup  strong  coffee,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one 
cup  butter,  one  egg,  two  cups  raisins,  two  cups  currants,  four 
cups  flour.  Put  one  cup  of  the  flour  on  the  fruit,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs.  A.  R.  Kilgore,  Seattle,  Wash. 

BAKING  POWDER  COFFEE  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg,  one  large  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  bakin^ 


52  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

powder,  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  tablespoon  of  lard 
melted  together.  Put  all  in  mixing  pan,  then  stir  together  well, 
and  bake  in  jelly  tins ;  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  and  cinnamon  over 
tops  before  baking. — Mrs.  \V.  J.  Dalton,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAM    CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  stirred  to  a 
cream,  whites  of  six  eggs  or  three  whole  ones,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder  in  two  heaping  cups  sifted  flour,  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk.  Bake  in  layers. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Baker,  Manistee, 
Mich. 

CREAM    CAKE. 

One  egg,  one  cup  sweet  cream,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  two- 
thirds  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Beat  eggs  and  cream  together,  add  sugar  and  stir 
vigorously.  Add  flour,  baking  powder  and  flavoring  and  bake 
in  loaf  cake  tin  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  A.  F.  Johnson,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

CORX  STARCH  CAKE. 

Three-fourths  cupful  soft  butter,  two  cupfuls  pulverized  sugar 
sifted  four  times,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt, 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  rose, 
almond,  or  lemon  flavoring ;  whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cupfuls 
wheat  flour,  one  cupful  corn  starch.  Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream.  To  this  add  alternately,  parts  of  the  one  cupful  of  milk 
and  parts  of  the  flour,  corn  starch  and  baking  powder — the 
three  last  having  been  well  sifted  together — then  the  salt,  and 
vanilla.  Lastly,  add  the  stiff  beaten  whites  of  the  seven  eggs. 
Grease  old  tube  cake  pan  with  lard  and  flour  well  before  putting 
in  the  dough.  Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  When  cold,  ice 
with  pale  chocolate  frosting ;  cocoa  can  be  satisfactorily  used.— 
Miss  Charlotte  Wikstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

Three  cups  flour,  two  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  sweet  milk, 
whites  six  eggs,  half  cup  butter,  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  half 
teaspoon  of  soda ;  flavor  with  lemon.  Bake  in  loaf.  Good  and 
easily  made. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Purely,  Gallup,  N.  M. 

DELICIOUS    CAKE. 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
three  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Beat  yolk  and  whites  separately.  Bake  in  loaf  in  stem  pan, 
slowly. — Miss  Estella  A.  Fisher,  Lndianapolis,  Ind. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  53 

DEVIL'S  FOOD   CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream;  add  to  this  two  squares  Baker's  chocolate  melted,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  (level)  soda 
in  one  cup  sour  milk;  flour  to  make  a  very  soft  cake  dough. 
This  is  enough  for  two  large  layers.  Delicious.— Mrs.  M.  C. 
Wisehart,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

DEVILED  CAKE. 

Two-thirds  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg.  Mix  the  above 
and  boil  until  it  thickens.  Cake  Batter : — One  cup  sugar,  two 
eggs,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  small 
teaspoon  of  soda,  three  cups  of  flour,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Stir 
the  boiled  mixture  into  the  cake  batter.  Bake  in  layers ;  put  to- 
gether with  boiled  frosting. — Mrs.  A.  R.  Kilgore,  Seattle, 
Wash. 

DEVIL'S  CAKE. 

Part  I : — Three-fourths  cup  grated  chocolate  or  cocoa,  one- 
half  cup  of  coffee,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar.  Part  2  : — One  cup 
brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  coffee,  two  eggs, 
two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda  (put  the  soda  in  flour),  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Let  part  1  come  to  a  boil,  cool  it 
and  stir  into  part  2.  Bake  in  layers.  Boiled  icing  between  lay- 
ers and  on  top. — Contributed,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

DEVIL'S    FOOD    CAKE. 

Two  squares  of  chocolate,  one-half  cup  of  coffee,  one  egg 
beaten  lightly.  Boil  until  it  thickens ;  stir  so  as  not  to  scorch  ;  then 
add  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
sour  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  one  small  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  scant 
cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla. — Mrs.  A.  G.  Rounseville, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

DEVIL'S    FOOD    CAKE. 

Four  whole  eggs  or  yolks  of  eight,  two  small  cups  sugar, 
one-half  cup  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon- 
ful allspice,  three  squares  melted  Baker's  chocolate,  one  cup 
coffee,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  three  cups  flour. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar;  then  add  eggs,  cinnamon  and  alspice, 
melted  chocolate,  coffee,  and  the  baking  powder  sifted  in  the 
flour.  Beat  for  five  minutes.  Bake  in  loaf. — Miss  Francisco, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


54  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

* 

DEVIL'S    FOOD    CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  eggs, 
one  cup.  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  flour,  one  and 
one-half  squares  of  bitter  chocolate,  melted.— Miss  Elfie  Emer- 
son, Williams,  Ariz. 

DEVIL'S   FOOD. 

Part  1  : — Three-fourths  cup  grated  chocolate,  one-half  cup 
of  milk,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  boil  till  thick,  then  let  cool. 
Part  2  : — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, two  cups  flour  measured  before  sifting,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
three  egg  yolks,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
cloves.  Beat  in  Part  1  first  and  bake  in  layers,  putting  them 
together  with  boiled  icing. — Contributed,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

DEVIL'S   FOOD. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  saving  out 
one  white;  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
one-fourth  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one  square  choco- 
late. Dissolve  chocolate  in  boiling  water  and  add  to  cake  bat- 
ter; bake  in  two  square  tins,  put  cooked  chocolate  filling  between 
and  one  top. — Mrs.  Will  Ergman,  Jr.,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

FARINA  TORTE. 

Cream  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar;  one  scant  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one  scant  cup  of 
chopped  walnuts,  one  scant  cup  of  Farina,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  add  the  beaten  egg  whites  of  the  four  eggs.  When 
this  is  done  break  it  up  in  small  pieces  and  cover  with  whipped 
cream.  This  is  good. — Mrs.  Fred  Terry,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

FRUIT    CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar  even  full,  six  eggs  beaten  well  together,  two- 
thirds  cup  molasses,  three  cups  sour  cream,  two  even  teaspoons 
of  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  cloves  each,  two  evenful  teaspoons  of 
soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  five  cups  sifted  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons, even  full,  baking  powder  mixed  dry  with  flour,  one 
pound  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one 
pound  currants,  one  pound  walnuts  chopped  fine.  Mix  fruit 
and  walnuts  with  one-half  cup  of  flour;  add  to  the  other  in- 
gredients and  bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Button,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

FRUIT    CAKE. 

Three-fourths  pound  butter,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  one  cup 
New  Orleans  molasses,  eleven  eggs  beaten  separately,  one-half 


WILUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  55 

pint  cherry  or  currant  juice  (preserved),  two  pounds  well  sifted 
flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  three  pounds 
raisins,  one  and  one-half  pounds  citron,  cut;  one  and  one-half 
pounds  lemon  and  orange  peel,  cut ;  one  pound  almonds,  blanch- 
ed and  cut  in  dice;  one-half  teaspoonful  all  kinds  of  mixed 
ground  spices.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  flour  fruit.  Bake 
in  tube  pans  in  slow  oven  six  or  eight  hours. — Contributed, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

FRUIT    CAKE. 

One  pound  butter  creamed,  one  pound  granulated  sugar, 
one-half  pound  light  brown  sugar,  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  well 
beaten,  beat  well  together  and  add  one  after  another  ;two 
round  teaspoons  cloves,  four  round  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one 
nutmeg,  one  tumbler  grape  or  currant  jelly,  one  tumbler  mo- 
lasses, one-half  tumbler  currant  juice,  one  pound  flour  sifted 
with  two  level  teaspoons  soda,  whites  of  twelve  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Have  ready,  in  a  large  chopping  bowl,  four  packages 
raisins,  washed,  dried  and  lightly  chopped;  two  packages  cur- 
rants washed  and  dried,  one  pound  citron  cut  in  strips,  one- 
half  pound  nut  meats  cut  fine,  one-half  pound  flour  thoroughly 
mixed  with  the  fruit.  Turn  cake  mixture  over  the  fruit  and 
mix  all  together  with  a  chopping  knife  and  bake  in  two  pans 
four  hours,  keeping  pans  covered  after  the  first  hour. — Mrs. 
E.  N.  Sailing,  Manistee,  Mich. 

FRUIT    CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  cups  of  melted  butter,  two 
cups  of  molasses,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda,  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  extract,  three  tablespoons  of 
cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  of  cloves,  two  tablespoons  of  allspice, 
one  nutmeg,  one  gill  grape  juice  or  coffee;  flour  enough  to 
make  a  good  stiff  batter.  Then  add  two  pounds  of  currants, 
two  pounds  seeded  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  citron  chopped 
fine,  one  pound  of  chopped  walnuts.  Sprinkle  flour  over  fruit 
before  putting  into  the  batter.  Bake  three  hours  in  slow  oven. 
—Mrs.  P.  J.  Burns,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FRUIT    CAKE. 

Eight  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  molasses, 
one  cup  black  coffee,  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  four  pounds  seeded 
raisins,  half  of  them  chopped ;  two  pounds  currants,  one  pound 
citron,  two  pounds  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped,  two  pounds 
chopped  walnuts,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  all  kinds  of  spice, 
two  nutmegs,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in 


56  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

sour  milk,  put  spices  in  molasses  and  put  on  stove,  let  simmer  a 
few  minutes  then  cool;  six  cups  of  flour  measured  before  sift- 
ing, then  sift  several  times;  beat  whites  of  eggs  separately  and 
add  last,  bake  in  a  slow  oven;  when  done  remove  from  oven 
and  cover  tightly. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Treat,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

EVERY  DAY  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Cream  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  shortening,  add  three  well 
beaten  eggs,  then  two  cups  sour  milk  with  one  teaspoon 
soda,  add  sifted  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  dough,  and  other 
dry  ingredients;  putting  in  one-half  cup  each  raisins,  currants, 
citron,  nuts,  add  a  little  more  flour.  Put  very  stiff  dough  in 
well  greased  pans.  This  will  make  three  cakes.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  from  one  to  one  and  a  half  hours.  Let  age  before  using. — 
Miss  Katherine  Wells,  Glendale,  Calif. 

EXCELLENT   FRUIT   CAKE. 

One  and  one-fourth  pounds  butter,  one  and  one-fourth 
pounds  brown  sugar,  four  pounds  raisins,  two  pounds  currants 
(soaked  one  hour  in  boiling  water  and  wrung  dry  in  a  towel), 
one  cup  molasses,  one  pound  walnuts  (chopped),  one-half 
pound  citron  peel  (chopped),  one-half  cup  sweet  cider,  one  and 
one-fourth  pounds  flour,  one  tablespoon  each,  cinnamon,  cloves, 
allspice,  two  nutmegs,  thirteen  eggs  (whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately).  Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  raisins,  currants, 
molasses,  walnuts,  spices,  citron  peel,  eggs  and  flour.  This 
quantity  makes  two  large  cakes,  which  will  improve  with  age. 
Nearly  fill  the  cake  pans  and  bake  three  hours  in  a  slow  oven. — 
Mrs.  E.  E.  Tefft,  Anacortes,  Wash. 

PLAIN  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one  cup  butter  and  two  of  sugar.  Add  one 
cupful  molasses,  one  cupful  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda 
and  stir  until  the  mixture  stops  "purring."  Add  three  well 
beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nut- 
meg, a  quarter  cup  shredded  citron  or  preserved  watermelon 
rind,  and  a  cup  each  of  seeded  raisins  and  currants  well  dredged 
with  flour.  Add  sifted  flour  to  make  rather  stiff,  turn  into  tube 
tins  lined  with  buttered  paper  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs. 
M.  S.  Carpenter,  Hackensack,  N.  J. 

EGGLESS  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  cupful  butter,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  sugar,  one  cupful 
sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls 


WILLIAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  57 

ground  cinnamon,  two  cupfuls  raisins,  two  cupfuls  currants, 
two  and  one-half  cupfuls  flour. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Wolfe,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  .three-fourths  cup  sweet  milk  into  which  put  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda  and  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  three-fourths 
cup  butter,  well  creamed,  one  and  one-half  cup  sugar,  three 
cups  flour,  ten  cents  worth  of  raisins,  five  cents  worth  of  citron. 
Bake  in  a  cake  mold. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Cyanthia,  Ky. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup  water, 
four  cups  flour  with  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of 
six  eggs,  two  teaspoons  vanilla  or  almond,  or  a  little  of  each; 
one-fourth  pound  shaved  citron,  one-fourth  pound  lemon  peel, 
one  and  one-half  pounds  large  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 
Add  floured  fruit  to  the  well  creamed  butter  and  sugar,  then  the 
sifted  flour  and  the  water  alternately,  then  vanilla,  and  last  fold  in 
the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  moderate  over  in 
one  large  tube  cake  pan  with  oiled  paper  for  one  and  one-half 
hours  or  more.  Frost  if  desired. — Miss  Carrie  McClintic,  Mis- 
souri. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Cream  well  one  cupful  of  butter  with  two  cupfuls  of  granu- 
lated sugar  ;then  add  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls of  flour,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  quite  stiff,  two  even 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  one-half  pound  of  figs,  one-half 
pound  of  raisins,  one-half  cupful  of  almonds,  crushed ;  one- 
fourth  pound  citron,  chopped  fine ;  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
Lastly  add  baking  powder  and  mix  well  with  flour  before  add- 
ing to  other  ingredients,  also  flour  fruit  well  before  adding  to 
cake.  Bake  in  slow  oven  for  two  hours.  One-half  cupful  of 
dates  may  be  added  if  desired. — Mrs.  F.  Beckwith,  Flagstaff, 
Ariz. 

FUDGE    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  two  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  (heaping)  baking 
powder,  one- fourth  cup  (unsweetened)  chocolate,  one-half  cup 
English  walnuts,  broken  up  coarsely.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
together,  add  milk  and  stir  the  flour  in,  lightly,  in  which  the 
baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Stir  in  the  chocolate  which  lias 
been  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Add  nuts  and  then  eggs,  which 
should  be  beaten  separately.  Bake  in  square  tins  or  layers. 


58  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

Fudge  Icing. 

One  and  one-half  teaspoons  butter,  one-half  cup  unsweetened 
powdered  cocoa,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  confectioner's  sugar, 
a  few  grains  of  salt,  one-fourth  cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Mix  butter,  cocoa,  sugar,  salt  and  milk  together  and 
boil  about  eight  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  until 
creamy.  Add  vanilla  and  pour  over  cake  to  depth  of  one-fourth 
inch. — Mrs.  E.  T.  Donahue,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FUDGE    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  one- fourth  cup  chocolate,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  Eng- 
lish walnuts,  three  eggs,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der. Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  milk,  stir  in 
lightly  the  flour  into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  added, 
next  the  chocolate  which  has  been  dissolved,  and  lastly  the  eggs 
beaten  separately.  Bake  in  three  layers. — Mrs.  Bessie  Daggs 
Lamb,  Prescott,  Ariz. 

GARDEX  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar  (brown  or  white),  one-half  cup  shortening, 
one-half  cup  molasses,  three  eggs  (two  whites  for  frosting), 
one  cup  milk,  one  cup  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs  and 
mix  well,  add  molasses,  beat  thoroughly  and  add  milk.  Mix 
flour  and  baking  powder  and  add  slowly.  Bake  thirty  or  forty 
minutes  in  moderate  oven. — Miss  Katherine  Wells,  Glendale, 
Calif. 

"When  I  was  eating  my  dinner  today  the  butter  ran." 

"That's  nothing.     I  was  up  town  last  night  and  saw  a  cake  walk." 

GINGER   CAKE. 

Put  in  a  pan  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  and  one 
cup  melted  butter.  Add  a  dessert  spoonful  soda  and  stir  until 
dissolved  and  foamy.  Add  one  cup  sour  milk  in  which  a  dessert 
spoonful  soda  has  been  dissolved  and  stir  until  the  whole  mix- 
ture is  foamy.  Add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  grated 
nutmeg  and  a  dessert  spoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  tablespoonful 
ginger,  and  three  cups  of  flour.  Stir  until  well  blended,  then 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  John  Langowsky,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

GTXGER   CAKE. 

Two  cups  New  Orleans  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter,  one 
cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  on  teaspoon  soda,  one 
tablespoon  ginger. — Mrs.  G.  A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  59 

HARLEQUIN  CAKE. 

Three-fourths  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  one 
cup  milk,  three  cups  flour  in  which  put  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Rub  to  a  light  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the 
well  beaten  eggs,  milk,  etc.  This  makes  four  layers.  Use  any 
flavor  and  filling  desired. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Glowner,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE. 

One  cupful  butter,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  pulverized  sugar, 
one-half  cupful  nuts,  chopped  fine;  one-fourth  pound  chopped 
lemon  peel,  one-fourth  pound  chopped  citron,  one  pound  chop- 
ped raisins,  whites  four  well  beaten  eggs,  two  cupfuls  flour  with 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  three-fourths  cupful  water,  cold. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  water,  then  nuts  and  fruits,  flour, 
and  last,  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  loaf  in  moderate  oven 
three-fourths  to  one  hour.  Put  icing  on  top  and  sides  if  de- 
sired. Delicious. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter,  Hackensack,  N.  J. 

HIMMEL    FLUTES. 

Stone  one-half  pound  of  dates,  then  wash  and  put  in  oven  to 
heat,  and  then  mash  with  a  spoon.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  grated 
almonds,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  with  three  tablespoons 
of  flour.  Then  add  the  dates  and  the  beaten  whites  of  the  six 
eggs.  Bake  in  two  long  tins  in  a  slow  oven ;  when  done,  spread 
custard  between  layers,  and  whipped  cream  on  top.  This  is  a 
German  cake. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Gilson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ICE   CREAM   CAKE. 

Two  cupfuls  pulverized  sugar  sifted  four  times,  one  cupful 
(scant)  butter,  one  cupful  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  (scant) 
baking  powder,  three  cupfuls  flour  sifted  three  times,  and  twice 
after  baking  powder  is  added ;  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  whites 
of  eight  eggs.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  adding  milk  and  flour — 
with  the  baking  powder — alternately,  then  the  vanilla,  and  last, 
the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eight  eggs.  Bake  in  three  layers, 
or  five  smaller  ones. 

Frosting  for  Above  Cake. 

Four  cupfuls  pulverized  sugar,  one  small  cupful  hot  water, 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Boil  sugar  and  hot  water  until  it  threads 
or  hairs  from  the  spoon.  Pour  this  over  the  well  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beating  until  nearly  cool,  and  add  one  pound  of 
chopped  walnuts,  and  continue  beating  until  cold  enough  to 


60  THE;  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 

spread  nicely.  If  desired,  do  not  put  nuts  in  all  the  icing,  but 
save  enough  out  to  cover  the  top  and  sides. — Contributed,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

JAM   CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  one  cup  jam,  three  tablespoons  milk  (sour) 
and  one  teaspoon  soda  or  three  tablespoons  sweet  milk  and  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  allspice 
and  nutmeg.  Stir  well;  bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with 
boiled  icing. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Marez,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

BLACKBERRY    JAM    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  one  cup  blackberry 
jam,  three  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-third  of  a 
grated  nutmeg,  two  eggs,  the  well  beaten  whites  to  be  added 
last.  Bake  in  loaf  or  layers. — Miss  M.  J.  Orth,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif. 

JELLY  ROLL. 

One  cup  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-third  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  three  well  beaten  eggs'  Mix  together  in  order 
given.  Stir  well ;  pour  batter  in  greased  dripping  pan  and  bake 
in  even  oven.  \Yhen  done,  place  on  brown  paper  that  has  been 
sprinkled  over  with  pulverized  sugar.  Spread  any  kind  of  jelly 
over  cake  and  roll  quickly.  (This  must  be  done  before  cake 
cools  or  it  will  break.) — Mrs.  A.  F.  Johnson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

JELLY  ROLL. 

This  is  a  simple  form  of  butter  cake.  It  is  like  the  sponge 
cake  with  the  addition  of  a  small  amount  of  shortening.  In- 
gredients : — Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  melted 
butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  scant  cup  flour,  four 
teaspoons  salt.  Method : — Beat  eggs  until  very  light,  add 
sugar  gradually,  milk,  flour  sifted  with  salt  and  baking  powder, 
then  the  butter.  Line  the  bottom  of  a  long,  shallow  pan  with 
paper  and  sides  of  pan.  Spread  batter  very  thinly  and  evenly. 
Bake  twelve  minutes,  in  a  moderate  oven.  Take  from  oven  and 
.turn  on  a  paper  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar.  Quickly  re- 
move paper,  trim  edges  with  sharp  knife  and  while  warm  spread 
with  jelly.  Roll  quickly  and  carefully  or  cake  will  break  in 
rolling.  After  cake  has  been  rolled,  roll  paper  around  cake  that 
it  may  keep  in  shape. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Richardson,  Los  Angeles 
Calif.' 


WIWJAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  61 

JELLY  ROLL. 

One  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  flour,  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
one  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Flavor  to  taste.  If  too  thick, 
add  tablespoon  water. — Mrs.  Raney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

JELLY  ROLL. 

One  pound  flour,  one  pound  sugar,  ten  eggs,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  then  flavor ;  water  to  make  thin  dough. — W.  A. 
Field,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PLAIX  LAYER  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  two-thirds  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  corn- 
starch,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  vanilla. — 
Mrs.  Nettie  Flick,  San  Pedro,  Calif. 

Icing. 

One-fourth  cup  syrup,  one  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  hot 
water.  Boil  till  threads,  then  add  to  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg. 
Chopped  nuts  maybe  added. — Mrs.  Vanzandt,  San  Pedro,  Calif. 

KARTOFFEL   TORTE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  grated 
boiled  potatoes,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one- 
half  cake  of  sweet  chocolate  grated,  one-half  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, one-half  teaspoon  cloves,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  one-half  cup  of  chopped  almonds,  four  eggs.  Ba"ke 
in  L.  pan  with  a  funnel  in  about  forty-five  minutes — Mrs.  Fred 
Terry,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

LAYER  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one-fourth  cup  of  b.utter,  three 
eggs,  one-fourth  cup  milk,  one  heaping  teacup  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder ;  put  in  three  tins,  bake  in  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  W.  Patterson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LAYER  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  yolks 
of  eggs  (save  whites  for  icing),  one  and  one-half  cups  milk, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder;  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to 
bake. — -Mrs.  Wm.  -Ergmann,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

LEMOX    CAKE. 

Two  teacups  powdered  sugar,  one  teacup  butter,  beaten  to  a 
cream ;  one  teacup  sour  milk,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  teaspoon 


62  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

soda  dissolved  in  milk,  five  eggs  beaten  separately,  four  cups 
flour.    Bake  as  soon  as  mixed. — Mrs.  E.  M.  Victor,  New  York, 

N.Y. 

YELLOW  LOAF  CAKE. 

Two-thirds  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  beat  to  a 
cream ;  add  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  then  add  one  cup 
milk,  one  teaspoon  flavoring,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder;  add  these  a  little  at  a  time,  and  lastly  the 
whites  of  the  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  beat  the  mixture 
hard. — Mrs.  J.  Salzman,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

NUT  LOAF  CAKE. 

One  cup  pulverized  sugar,  one-half  cup  sour  cream  with  one- 
half  teaspoonful  soda,  one  cup  chopped  nuts,  one  cup  flour.  If 
sour  cream  cannot  be  had  substitute  sour  milk  and  one  table- 
spoonful  butter.  Bake  in  loaf.  Frost  with  plain  icing. — Miss 
Lena  Johnson,  Trout  Creek,  Mich. 

LUNCH    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  four  eggs, 
two  teaspoons  of  ground  cinnamon,  cloves,  one-half  cup  al- 
monds chopped  fine,  one-half  cup  citron,  one  teaspoon  soda; 
flour  enough  to  make  stiff  batter.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Should  age  one  week. — Mrs.  Frank  Beckwith,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

MAHOGANY   CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half 
cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda  in 
one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  chocolate  cooked  till  thick 
in  one-half  cup  sweet  milk.  Put  into  cake  when  cool. 

Filling. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  white  or  brown  sugar,  two  cups 
milk  cooked  until  thick.  When  cool  put  flavoring  in.— Mrs. 
Will  Ergman,  Jr.,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

Cream  one  scant  cup  of  butter,  add  two  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Put 
all  together,  add  four  eggs  beaten  very  light ;  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Put  one- 
fourth  of  the  mixture  in  a  separate  bdwl  and  color  a  pale  pink 
with  fruit  coloring  and  another  quarter,  a  deep  brown  with 
melted  chocolate.  Have  a  deep  cake  pan  lined  with  paper  and 
put  the  mixture  in  by  spoonfuls  first  one  and  then  another.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  done.  When  nearly  cold,  cover  with 
icing. — Mrs.  Frank  Beckwith,  Flagstaff.  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  63 

,     MARBLE  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  four  eggs,  three  cups 
flour,  one  cup  water,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavor  to 
taste.  After  it  is  all  mixed,  take  one-half  of  the  batter  in  an- 
other dish  and  mix  with  it  one  cake  of  sweet  chocolate  previ- 
ously thinned  with  a  little  water,  then  drop  alternately  one 
spoon  of  light  with  one  spoon  of  dark  batter. — Mrs.  W.  A.- May- 
flower, Denver,  Colo. 

MARSHMALLOW   CAKE. 

\Yhites  four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Filling  : — Two  tablespoons 
gelatine  dissolved  in  four  tablespoons  hot  water,  two  cups  con- 
fectioner'.s  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon.  Beat  for  half  an 
hour,  and  if  too  stiff  thin  with  hot  water,  pour  the  mixture  into 
a  buttered  tin  and  set  on  ice  to  harden.  When  cold  put  between 
the  cakes.  This  may  be  made  the  day  before  using,  as  both  cake 
and  filling  must  be  thoroughly  cold  when  put  together. — -Mrs. 
W.  F.  Baker,  Manistee,  Mich. 

MARSHMALLOW   CAKE. 

One  cupful  \vhites  of  eggs,  about  ten  or  twelve ;  one  cupful 
flour  with  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar  sifted  five  times,  one 
and  one-half  cup  fills  pulverized  sugar  sifted  five  times.  Put  the 
whites  on  a  large  platter,  add  pinch  of  salt,  beat  with  wire  beater. 
\Yhen  thoroughly  beaten  fold  in  very  lightly  the  sifted  sugar. 
Last,  put  in  the  sifted  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Put 
oiled  paper  in  tins.  Bake  in  three  large  layers  fifteen  minutes  or 
more  in  moderate  oven. 

Filling. 

Soften — but  not  melt — three-fourths  pound  fresh  marshmal- 
lows,  boil  three  cupfuls  pulverized  sugar  in  one-half  cupful 
water  until  it  threads,  cool  slightly,  add  the  beaten  whites  of 
three  eggs  gradually  until  it  is  thick  enough  to  spread;  cut 
mallows  in  halves  and  put  on  each  layer  of  filling.  For  the  top 
use  whole  marshmallows.  Do  not  use  too  many  marshmallows, 
as  it  becomes  too  sweet. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 
Ariz. 

MIXNEHAHA  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter 
(small),  one-half  cup  cream,  one-half  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour 
(small) ,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  vanilla  flavoring.  Bake 


64  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

in  two  layers  and  put  together  with  part  of  boiled  icing 
to  which  add  one  cup  chopped  raisins  and  a  trifle  of  chocolate. — 
Miss  Filer,  Manistee,  Mich. 

ONE  EGG  MOCHA  CAKE. 

Cream  together  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  one 
cupful  of  sugar.  Add  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  stir  in  three-quar- 
ters cupful  of  milk,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Add  one  full  cup  of  flour  sifted  with 
one  rounded  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Melt  over  steam, 
two  squares  of  chocolate  and  mix  well.  Then  add  the  well- 
beaten  white  of  egg.  Bake  in  two  layers  in  nine-inch  tins,  in  a 
fairly  hot  oven.  When  cool  fill  and  ice  the  layers  with  the  fol- 
lowing mixture :  Beat  together  until  creamy  one  cupful  of 
confectioner's  sugar,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little 
vanilla,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  dry  cocoa,  and  two  tablespoon fuls 
of  coffee  made  very  strong. — M.  G.  X.,  Newark,  N.  J. 

MOLASSES    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  molasses,  one  cup  coffee 
or  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  boiling  water  with  one  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved,  one-half  cup  shortening,  twro  eggs,  nuts,  flour  to  make 
dough  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  spoon. 

Filling. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk.  Boil  until  it  makes  a  soft 
ball  when  dropped  in  water.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  one 
tablespoon  of  butter ;  stir. — Miss  J.  M.  Daggs,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MOLASSES  LAYER   CAKE. 

Two-thirds  cup  of  molasses,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  two- 
thirds  cup  of  milk,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon 
of  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  allspice,  twro-thirds  cup  of  flour.— 
Mrs.  A.  G.  Rounseville,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SPICED   MOLASSES  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  shortening  (butter  or  cottolene)  ; 
one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one 
teaspoon  ginger,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  two  eggs,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  flour.  Beat  the  eggs  well  and  put  in  last. — Mrs.  Amos 
Adams,  Williams.  Ariz. 

ROCKY  MOUNTAIN    CAKE. 

Cream  one  scant  cupful  of  sugar  and  one-half  cupful  of  but- 
ter and  add  flavoring.  Sift  into  one  and  three-fourths  cupfuls 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  65 

of  flour  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder.  Add  three  well-beaten  eggs  and  part  of  the 
flour,  then  the  milk  and  the  rest  of  the  flour.  Beat  thoroughly 
for  ten  minutes.  Bake  in  loaf,  layer  or  gem  tins. — Contributed, 
Denver,  Colo. 

NUT   CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  scant  half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  flour, 
half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  eggs.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  add  the  eggs  beaten  lightly,  then  the  milk  and  the  flour 
sifted  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  and  one  pound 
of  walnut  meats  chopped  (not  too  fine).  Bake  in  three  layers 
and  fill  with  a  nice  tart  jelly. — Mrs.  Fred  Lebsch,  Prescott, 
Ariz. 

NUT   CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  two  level  cups  sugar  (put  in  one-fourth  of  it 
at  a  time),  four  eggs.  Beat  yolks  to  a  cream  then  beat  into  the 
butter  and  sugar.  Add  one  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons vanilla,  three  level  cups  flour,  two  level  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder.  Beat  all  well.  Add  one  and  one-half  cups  Eng- 
lish walnuts  chopped  fine.  Beat  well.  Fold  in  whites  of  eggs 
carefully.  Bake  almost  an  hour. — Mrs.  McDonald  Robinson, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

\    '  . 

NUT   CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  scant  half  cup  of 
butter.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one  cup  chopped  nut  meats,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  po\vder  in  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  batter. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  stiff  and  stir  in  mixture.  Bake 
in  slow  oven  one  hour. — Mrs.  Finney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

NUT   CAKE. 

One  cup  fine  soft  whole  wheat  bread  crumbs  from  center  of 
loaf,  one  cup  mixed  ground  nuts,  blanched  almonds  and  Eng- 
lish walnuts,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  beaten  egg,  salt,  pepper, 
sage.  Mix  and  let  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  stir  it,  put  into  but- 
tered baking  dish  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  S.  T. 
Elliott,  Kingman,  Ariz. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three  cups 
flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  egg,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder.— Miss  Gardner.  Manistee,  Mich. 


66  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

ONE  !•:<;<;  CAKE. 


Four  tablespoons  butter,  creamed  ;  one-half  cup  sugar,  one 
egg  beaten  light,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-fourth  cups 
flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Gradually  add  sugar  to  butter,  then  egg;  mix  and  sift  the  flour 
and  baking  powder.  —  Mrs.  A.  W.  Richardson,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif. 

ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR   CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  four  eggs, 
one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  three  level  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, one  teaspoon  vanilla  or  lemon.  Cream  butter  and  sugar, 
add  eggs  well  beaten,  then  milk,  and  flour  with  baking  powder. 
Put  in  vanilla  and  whip  well.  This  may  be  used  as  a  loaf  cake 
if  a  little  more  flour  is  added.  It  makes  a  splendid  dessert  if 
baked  in  layers  and  served  hot  with  whipped  cream.  —  Mrs. 
Fred  H.  Perkins,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ORANGE  LOAF  CAKE. 

Three-fourths  cup  butter,  five  eggs,  two  cups  granulated 
sugar,  grated  rind  and  piece  of  one  orange,  one-half  cup  cold 
water,  two  cups  sifted  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  till  light  and  creamy,  add  yolks  of 
eggs  beaten  till  thick,  then  orange  juice  and  rind,  also  the  cold 
water.  Sift  and  add  the  flour  and  baking  powder  beating  well 
after  these  are  added.  Last  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
four  eggs,  reserving  the  remaining  whites  for  the  frosting. 

Orange  Frosting. 

White  of  one  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  grated  rind  of  one  orange, 
piece  of  half  an  orange.  Beat  white  of  egg  till  stiff,  add  slowly 
sugar,  stir  in  orange  juice,  rind,  mix  well  and  spread  when 
cake  is  cold.  —  Mrs.  C.  A.  Collett,  (nee  Simpson),  Los  Angeles, 
Calif. 

PLAIN    CAKE. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  vanilla,  sufficient  flour  for 
thin  batter.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  and  stir  in  the 
well  beaten  eggs.  Add  milk  alternately  with  the  flour  that  has 
the  baking  powder  sifted  through.  Bake  in  layers.  (This 
cake  can  always  be  relied  on.)  —  Mrs.  A.  F.  Johnson,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

POTATO    CAKE    (VTSOLIA). 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups 
flour,  one  cup  mashed  potatoes  with  milk,  one  small  cup 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  67 

chocolate  (or  seven  tablespoons),  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one  cup  chopped  nuts,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  teaspoon 
each  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  four  eggs.  Bake  one  hour  slowly. 
-Mrs.  E.  M.  Victor,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

POTATO   CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup 
milk,  one-half  cup  walnuts  chopped  fine,  one-half  cup  potatoes 
mashed  fine,  two  cups  chocolate,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  each,  cloves,  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an 
hour. — Mrs.  F.  Johnson,  Santa  Cruz,  Calif. 

POTATO   CAKE. 

One  scant  cup  butter,  two  scant  cups  sugar,  foifr  eggs,  one 
large  cup  mashed  potatoes  (hot),  one  cup  melted  chocolate, 
one-half  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one 
teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  chopped  English 
walnuts.  Bake  in  bread  pan  and  cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  J.  S. 
Folsom,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

POTATO    CAKE    (CHOCOLATE). 

Cream  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
butter.  Add  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  four  eggs,  two  cupfuls 
of  flour,  one  cupful  of  mashed  potatoes,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and 
cloves,  and  one  cupful  of  chopped  walnuts.  Melt  four  cakes 
of  chocolate  and  add  to  cake.  Bake  in  thin  layers.  Add 
cocoanut  to  frosting. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

POTATO   CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  grated 
chocolate,  one  cup  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup  chopped  nut  meats, 
three  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  grated. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Teft, 
Anacortes,  Wash. 

CARL'S    POTATO   CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup 
mashed  potatoes,  one-fourth  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup 
chopped  walnuts,  one-fourth  cup  chocolate,  one  cup  flour,  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  each  cloves  cinna- 
mon, nutmeg,  one-half  cup  raisins.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in 
slow  oven. — Mrs.  Fred  W.  Sisson,  Lalomai  'Lodge,  Oak  Creek 
Canyon,  Ariz. 


68  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

POUND  CAKE. 

Three-fourths  pound  butter,  one  pound  pulverized  sugar,  one 
and  one-half  pounds  flour  sifted  nine  times  with  two  level  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  twelve  eggs  beaten  separately,  one- 
half  small  tumbler  rose  water,  ,two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  one-half 
grated  nutmeg.  To  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar  add  the  well 
beaten  yolks,  then  the  nutmeg  and  vanilla.  Beat  in  flour  and 
rose  water  alternately.  Last  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  two  oiled  tube  cake  pans,  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two 
hours  or  more.  Ice  with  good  firm  icing.  This  cake  will  keep 
two  weeks. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter  (deceased),  Hackensack, 
N.J. 

Mooney — "What  kind  of  cake  was  that  yez  sent  wid  me  dinner  this 
mornin',  Rosy?" 

Rosy — "Tftat  was  pound  cake,  Jerry." 

Mooney — "Pound  cake,  is  it?  Faith,  then  be  the  way  it  felt  all  the 
afternoon  I  thought  it  was  a  ton." 

SPICE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
cream,  butter  and  sugar,  one  cnp  sour  cream  one  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  the  cream,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Bake  in  two  layers,  ice  with 
carmel  icing.  Carmel  Icing: — Three  cups  granulated  sugar, 
one-half  cup  Rose  Bud  drip  syrup  or  one-half  cup  brown 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk  placed  in  pan,  let  boil  until 
it  makes  a  soft  ball  in  water  as  for  Fudge ;  take  from  fire,  add 
piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  one  tablespoon  vanilla,  let  cool, 
beat  to  a  cream,  and  ice  cake  when  the  cake  is  cold. — Mrs.  Geo. 
Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  yolks  of 
five  eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  each,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nut- 
meg. Bake  in  three  layers. — Mrs.  Willis  Patterson,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one 
and  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
cloves,  alspice,  each,  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one-half  tea- 
spoon soda,  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately ;  cream 
the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  beaten  yolks,  then  cream  the 
mixture  before  adding  flour  and  spices  and  beat  again,  then 
add  the  beaten  whites. — .Mrs.  Martha  Mclntyre  Arey  (de- 
ceased), San  Bernideno,  Calif. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  69 

SPICE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one  small  cup  of  sour  cream,  four  eggs,  reserving  the 
whites  of  two  for  frosting,  one  teaspoon  of  all  kinds  of 
spices,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  cream,  one 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough,  bake  slowly,  either  in  layers  or  loaf.  Very 
good. — Mrs.  R.  S.  Teeple,  Holbrook,  Ariz. 

SPICE  LAYER  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  yolks  three 
eggs  (save  the  whites  for  icing),  one  and  one-half  cups  milk, 
one  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  cloves,  three-fourths  cup  chopped 
raisins,  three-fourths  cup  chopped  walnuts,  two  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder  and  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  bake. — Mrs.  Erg- 
mann,  Jr.,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

CREAM  SPICE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half 
cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sour  cream,  yolks  of  five  eggs  or  three 
whole  ones,  two  teaspoons  cloves,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon, 
one-half  teaspoon  allspice,  one-half  teaspoon  ginger,  one-half 
teaspoon  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  soda.  If  cream  is  too  rich,  add 
sweet  milk. 

SPICE    CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  sour  cream,  three  eggs,  one-half 
teaspoon  soda.  Two  cups  of  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt, 
one-half  teaspoon  each  ground  cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and 
allspice,  one  cup  of  nuts,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  tablespoonful 
of  ground  chocolate.  Bake  in  slow  oven.  This  is  a  high  alti- 
tude recipe  used  in  Trinidad. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Coleman,  Wichita, 
Kans. 

SPICE   CAKE. 

Add  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  four  eggs  (leave 
two  whites  for  i.cing  if  desired),  one  cup  milk,  ope  and  one-half 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoon  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Add  flour.  Ground 
walnuts  make  it  very  good.— Miss  Elfie  Emerson,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

PORK    CAKE. 

One  pound  salt  pork  ground  fine,  one-half  pint  boiling  water, 
one  pound  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  molasses,  two  cups  brown 


70  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

sugar,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  ounce  cloves,  two  ounces  cinna- 
mon. Stir  stiff  with  flour. — Mrs.  H.  M.  Stark,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

PORK   CAKE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  four  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoon cloves,  one  nutmeg,  one  and  one-half  cups  molasses,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda,  three  eggs,  one  pound  salt  pork  chopped  fine, 
one  pint  boiling  water  poured  over  the  pork,  two  sieves  of  flour, 
one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  wal- 
nuts, small  piece  of  citron  and  lemon  peel. — Mrs.  \V.  Patter- 
son, Williams,  Ariz. 

PORK    CAKE. 

One  pound  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  one  pint  boiling  water 
poured  over  pork,  two  cupfuls  sugar,  one  cup  molasses  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda  stirred  in  molasses,  one  pound  seeded 
raisins,  one- fourth  pound  chopped  citron,  two  teaspoon  fills  bak- 
ing powder  sifted  with  five  cups  of  flour,  add  half  teaspoonful 
all  kinds  spices  desired. — Mrs.  Finney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

"OL.D   SOUTHERN   POUND   CAKE." 

Contents : — One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  pure  light 
brown  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  sixteen  eggs.  Directions : — 
No  spoon  to  be  used.  Butter  and  sugar  creamed  with  the 
hands,  and  eggs  added  one  at  a  time,  into  the  creamed  butter 
and  sugar,  saving  whites  of  two  eggs  for  frosting.  Flour  to  be 
sifted  three  times  before  used,  and  to  be  weighed  after  last  sift- 
ing. Add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder  to  the  flour, 
then  flour  to  be  added  gradually  to  the  creamed  butter,  sugar 
and  eggs.  To  preserve  or  keep  this  cake  moist  for  some  length 
of  time,  one  wine  glass  of  wine  can  be  added.  When  adding 
the  wine,  add  a  little  more  flour.  A  large  pound  tin  or  two 
small  half  pound  tins  should  be  used.  If  baked  in  large  size 
tins,  must  stay  in  oven  one  hour.  Fire  to  be  slow  and  steady. 
Frosting: — To  be  made  same  as  for  any  other  cake,  with  the 
two  whites  of  eggs  left.  The  old  southern  method  was  to  use 
powdered  sugar  instead  of  frosting.  (This  is  the  old  Jefferson 
family  pound  cake  recipe  and  has  been  used  continuously  in  my 
mother's  family  for  almost  a  century.) — Miss  Florence  Atkin- 
son, Chicago,  111. 

POUND  CAKE. 

One  and  one-fourth  pounds  flour,  one  and  one-fourth  pounds 
sugar  ,one  pound  butter,  twelve  eggs.  Cream  butter  and  sugar, 
add  eggs,  then  flour,  and  flavor  to  taste. — W.  A.  Field,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUB.UC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  71 

PRUNE    CAKE. 

Two-thirds  cupful  butter,  one  cupful  sugar,  three  eggs,  two 
cupfuls  flour,  four  tablespoonfuls  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
soda,  one  heaping  cupful  prunes,  two  teaspoonfuls  allspice,  two 
teaspnoonfuls  nutmeg,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. — Mrs. 
McDonald  Robinson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SNOWBALL,  CAKE. 

Cream  one  cup  sugar,  and  one-half  cup  butter;  add  one-half 
cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar,  then  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  in  a  sheet.  Frosting :  Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  of 
a  cup  of  milk ;  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  a  little  lemon,  and  beat 
until  cold. — Mrs.  E.  C.  Mills,  Maine,  Ariz. 

SNOW   CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  whites  of  four  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  one  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  tea.- 
spoon  baking  powder.  A  good  layer  cake  is  made  from  this  by 
adding  yolks,  more  milk  and  flour. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Daggs,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

A    GOOD    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs.  When  the  whites 
are  stiff  enough  to  remain  in  the  bowl  when  it  is  inverted,  beat 
into  them  one-half  cup  sugar  which  must  be  granulated.  Pow- 
dered sugar  makes  tough  cake.  Then  beat  the  yolks,  add  to 
them  another  half  cup  of  sugar,  beating  for  five  minutes  by  the 
clock ;  this  latter  .is  very  important  as  the  delicate  texture  of  the 
cake  depends  upon  it.  Add  to  the  yolks  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon.  Now  beat  well  together  the  yolks  and 
whites.  At  this  stage,  beating  is  in  order,  but  must  be  abso- 
lutely avoided  after  adding  the  flour,  of  which  take  one  cup ;  this 
is  to  be  tossed  or  stirred  into  it  with  a  ligt  turn  of  the  wooden 
spoon.  The  cup  of  sugar  should  be  generous,  the  flour  scanty. 
Bake  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Just  before 
putting  in  the  oven  sprinkle  on  top  through  a  sifter  about  a 
tablespoonfnl  of  granulated  sugar. — -Miss  Katherine  Anderson, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

SPONGE   CAKE. 

Weigh  three  eggs,  separate,  and  beat  well  the  weight  of  the 
eggs  in  sugar,  one-half  the  weight  of  the  eggs  in  flour;  add 
sugar  gradually  to  the  beaten  yolks,  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon 


72  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

and  a  little  of  the  rind,  then  the  flour  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder  sifted  in  it.  Fold  in  the  beaten  whites  last. 
Bake  in  pretty  hot  oven.  Use  a  wire  beater  througout. — Mrs. 
M.  S.  Carpenter,  Hackensack,  N.  j. 

SPONGE  CAKE    (FINE). 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  granulated  sugar,  one-half  pound  flour, 
juice  and  rind  of  one-half  lemon.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar 
together  for  at  least  half  an  hour,  add  the  lemon,  then  the 
beaten  whites  and  flour  last.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  sugar.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven.  This  is  a  moist  cake  and  has  a  thick  crust. — 
Contributed,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

SPONGE   CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar  and  yolks  of  five  eggs  creamed  together. 
Five  tablespoons  water,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one 
rounding  teaspoon  baking  powder,  flavoring.  Last  add  whites 
of  five  beaten  eggs.— Miss  Effie  Emerson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SPONGE   CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  water, 
two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  tablespoon 
lemon  juice. — Miss  J.  M.  Daggs,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SPONGE   CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  beat  whites  stiff ;  one  cup  sugar  with  beaten  yolks, 
one  cup  flour,  scant  teaspoon  baking'  powder. — Mrs.  Geo.  A. 
Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  stirred  together : 
two  eggs,  beaten  slightly  in  a  teacup  filled  with  rich  milk,  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar. — Mrs.  Geo.  A. 
Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

HOT   WATER   SPONGE   CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar  or  one  and  one- 
quarter  cup  granulated,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, (small),  one  tumbler  flour,  one  pinch  salt,  four  tablespoons 
boiling  water.  Cream  yolks  and  sugar  thoroughly  then  add 
beaten  whites  and  flour,  stir  well  and  then  stir  in  boiling  water. 
Delicious. — Mrs.  Watson,  Bay  City,  Mich. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  73 

OLD    PHILADELPHIA    SPONGE   CAKE. 

Beat  together  one  pound  granulated  sugar  and  the  yolks  of 
ten  eggs  until  as  light  as  cream ;  the  more  these  are  beaten  the 
finer  will  be  the  grain  of  the  cake,  add  the  juice  and  grated  yel- 
low rind  of  one  lemon,  have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  add  alternately  to  the  mixture  with  one-half 
pound  sifted  flour,  bake  twenty-five  minutes.  Bake  in  a  single 
cake,  or  in  patty  pans. — Contributed. 

OLD  FASHIONED  SOUR  MILK  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar  with  one  egg  stirred  in,  two-thirds  cup  melted 
butter,  two-thirds  cup  of  sour  milk  (buttermilk  is  best),  with 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  and  stirred  in,  flavor 
with  nutmeg,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  with  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder  sifted  in.  A  good  spiced  cake  can 
be  made  by  adding  to  this  recipe  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  with 
a  pinch  of  soda  well  beaten  in  and  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves 
and  cinnamon,  and  one-half  cup  flour.  Bake  slowly. — Mrs. 
John  J.  Staley,  Manistee,  Mich. 

STRAWBERRY  CAKE. 

Make  any  nice  layer  cake.  Between  the  layers  put  mashed 
preserved  strawberries  drained  of  juice,  and  on  top  put  lightly 
whipped  sweetened  cream.  Dot  with  large  berries.  Or  bake  a 
shallow  angel  food  and  pile  the  top  with  wipped  cream  and 
berries  after  icing  the  sides. — J.  W.  Bayles,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SUNSHINE   CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  ten 
eggs  (whites),  six  eggs  (yolks),  one  teaspoon  extract  of  lemon, 
one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff 
and  dry.  Add  sugar  gradually  with  continued  beating.  Then 
add  yolks  of  eggs  with  lemon  exartct,  yolks  beaten  until  thick 
and  lemon  colored ;  cut  and  fold  in  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with 
cream  of  tartar.  Bake  fifty  minutes  in  moderate  oven  in  angel 
cake  pan. — Mrs.  F.  M.  Wood,  Mayer,  Ariz. 

SUNSHINE   CAKE. 

Cream  together,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  sugar,  three-fourths 
cup  butter ;  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  well  beaten ;  three- fourths  cup 
milk,  flavoring,  two  and  one-fourth  cups  flour,  one  good  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers. — Mrs.  F.  W.  Smith, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


74  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

"It's  the  song  ye  sing  and  the  smiles  ye  wear, 
That  makes  the  sun  shine  everywhere." 

"What   we   call   Luck, 

Is  simply  Pluck; 

And  doing  things  over  and  over; 
Courage  and  will, 
Perserevarnce  and  skill, 
Are  the  four  leaves  of  Luck's  Clover." 
— Contributed. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  one  medium  glass  flour,  one  and  one-fourth  glasses 
granulated  sugar,  one  scant  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one  pinch 
salt,  two  teaspoons  lemon  juice,  one  teaspoon  grated  lemon 
rind  or  teaspoon  lemon  or  orange  extract.  Sift  the  flour  with 
the  cream  tartar  and  salt  six  times.  Sift  the  sugar  and  put  it 
back  in  sieve.  Separate  the  eggs,  beat  yolks  to  thick  cream,  put 
in  lemon  juice  and  .flavoring.  Beat  the  whites  to  stiff  froth, 
then  beat  in  the  sugar  little  at  a  time.  Then  add  yolks  to  the 
whites,  sift  in  flour  and  fold  in  slowly.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Do  not  grease  cake  tin.  Bake  forty  or  forty-five  minutes. 
When  done  invert  the  tin.  Frosting: — Take  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  lemon  or  orange  extract  and  stir  until  the 
consistency  of  frosting. — Mrs.  John  C.  Brown,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif. 

SUNSHINE   CAKE. 

After  using  the  whites  for  angel  food  take  the  eleven  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  loaf  or  layers. — Mrs.  Don  Reed,  Harper, 
Kans. 

SUNSHINE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoons  of  water  (cold),  six  eggs 
beaten  separately,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  lemon  extract  or  any  kind  of 
flavoring.  Put  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  in  last.  This  can  be 
baked  in  any  form. — Mrs.  Rose  L.  Hicks,  Williams,  Ariz. 

TEA   CAKE. 

Four  cups  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg  ,one  and  one- 


PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  75 

fourth  cups  walnut  meats  ground  coarsely.  Stir  all  together 
and  let  stand  twenty  minutes  before  baking  in  a  loaf.  Is  better 
to  stand  a  few  days  before  eating.  Slice  and  eat  with  butter. 
Delicious. — Mrs.  Homer  Stuntz,  Madison,  N.  J. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

One  and  three-fourths  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
milk,  whites  of  seven  eggs,  three  cups  sifted  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  vanilla.  Icing: — Two  cups  sugar, 
three  wine  glasses  of  water,  whites  of  two  eggs. — Mrs.  Geo. 
Irwin,  Williams,  Ariz. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup 
butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup  cornstarch, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  First  mix  one  cup  pulverized 
sugar  with  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  The  other  cup  of 
sugar  to  be  creamed  with  the  cup  of  butter.  To  this  add  the 
milk,  cornstarch ;  flour  with  baking  powder  and  last  the  whites 
of  eggs. — Miss  M.  J.  Orth,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

One  teacup  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  butter.  Cream  sugar 
and  butter,  then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  milk  or  water,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder  sifted  with  flour,  flavor  to  taste.  Be  sure  to  use  the 
same  sized  cup  to  measure. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ENGLISH  WALNUT  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  three- fourths  cup  butter,  creamed;  three 
eggs,  saving  white  of  one  for  icing;  three- fourths  cup  water, 
two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  wal- 
nuts, cut  not  too  fine.  Bake  either  in  loaf  or  layer,  flavor  with 
almond. — Miss  Eva  Wheeler,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  two 
cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  three  eggs 
well  beaten.  Make  three 'layers.  Frosting: — Yolks  of  three 
eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  fifteen 
minutes. — Mrs.  Bruner,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

WHITE    WEDDIXCi    CAKE     (VERY    NICE). 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour, 
three  spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  one 


76  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

pound  citron  sliced  thin,  one  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and 
chopped  fine,  one  medium  sized  fresh  cocoanut,  grated ;  one- 
half  cup  rose  water.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly, 
add  one  cup  of  milk,  and  flour  in  which  baking  powder  has  been 
sifted  three  times;  stir  well,  add  fruit  and  nuts,  stirring  only 
enough  to  mix  thoroughly;  last  of  all  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the  wine.  Fold  in  lightly  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Gardner,  Manistee,  Mich. 


SMALL  CAKES 


"It  is  the  bounty  of  nature  that  we  live;  but  of  philosophy  that  we 
live  well." — Seneca. 

LITTLE  FRUIT  CAKES. 

Cream  together  three-fourths  cup  butter  and  two  cups  sugar ; 
add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one-third 
teaspoon  cloves,  one-fourth  teaspoon  mace,  one  teaspoon  all- 
spice. Mix,  sift  together  with  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar  and 
three  cups  flour.  Dissolve  three-fourths  teaspoon  soda  in  one 
cup  milk,  add  part  of  the  flour  to  the  egg  mixture,  then  the 
milk  and  the  remainder  of  the  flour.  Dredge  with  the  flour  one 
cup  sliced  citron  and  two  cups  seeded  raisins  and  add  to  the 
batter.  Bake  in  small  tins  in  moderate  oven. — Miss  Pearl  Bru- 
ner,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

LEMON    CUP   CAKES. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  four  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, the  whites  put  in  last;  one-half  cup  of  lemon  juice.  One 
teaspoon  soda  in  a  little  water  in  a  glass,  fill  up  the  glass  with" 
sweet  milk;  one  quart  of  flour,  beaten  whites  of  the  four  eggs. 
Bake  in  patty  tins.  This  will  make  three  dozen. — Mrs.  P.  J. 
Burns,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LUNCHEON  CUP  CAKES. 

Break  one  egg  in  a  small  cup  and  fill  up  with  sweet  cream; 
beat  them  together,  then  add  one  small  cup  of  sugar,-  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  sifted 
with  the  flour,  flavor  with  half  teaspoonful  of  mace,  sprinkle 
with  colored  granulated  sugar  and  bake  in  gem  pans. — Mrs. 
R.  S.  Teeple,  Holbrook,  Ariz. 

DELICIOUS  CAKES  OK  OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

One  cup  shortening  (half  lard  and  half  butter),  one  large 
cupful  of  clarified  sugar  creamed  with  butter;  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  milk,  one  scant  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  pinch  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of  chop- 
ped nut  meats,  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  one  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  two  cups  of  flour,  add 
one  cupful  of  oatmeal  last  (ground  through  your  meat  chopper) . 
Bake  in  muffin  tins,  but  can  be  baked  as  dropped  cookies  if  pre- 
ferred.— Mrs.  J.  W.  Smith,  Williams,  Ariz. 


78  TIIK    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CHOCOLATE  ECLAIRS. 

Make  a  cream  puff  paste  with  two  tablespoonfuls  lard,  four 
tablespoon  fills  water,  one  teacupful  sifted  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  three  beaten  eggs.  Put  the  lard  and  water  to- 
gether with  the  salt,  in  a  shallow  sauce  pan,  and  let  come  to  a 
very  good  boil,  stir  in  the  sifted  flour,  and  make  a  good  paste. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  put  in  a  mixing  bowl,  let  cool  a  little,  stir 
in  the  beaten  eggs  gradually.  Dust  with  flour  and  grease  the 
baking  pan.  Drop  mixture  in  pan  in  any  desired  shape,  brush 
with  egg  wash,  and  let  stand  a  while  to  smooth  off  before  bak- 
ing in  quick  oven.  When  baked,  split  the  side  or  end,  fill  with 
prepared  custard  (or  whipped  cream).  Replace  and  make  a 
chocolate  icing  top  of  each.  Serve  cold,  but  fresh. — Miss  Wik- 
strom,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LEMON    GEM   CAKES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  lemon  juice, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  quart  sifted  flor,  four  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon (level)  soda,  two  tablespoons  lemon  extract.  Cream 
sugar  and  butter.  Add  the  well  beaten  eggs,  lemon  juice,  soda, 
dissolved  in  the  sweet  milk,  lemon  extract  and  then  the  flour. 
Bake  in  gem  tins. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Tefft,  Anacortes,  Wash. 

HERMITS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  shortening,  one  cup  of  sour 
milk,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  cup  of  walnuts, 
chopped ;  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  nutmeg  and  two  tea- 
spoons baking' powder.  Mix  to  a  thick  batter;  take  teaspoon 
and  drop  in  baking  pan. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Hicks  (deceased),  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

HERMITS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  shortening,  two 
eggs,  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon 
each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon ;  flour  to  thicken  ;  one  cup 
raisins;  add  nuts  if  you  wish.  Drop  in  well  greased  pans.— 
Miss  Dorothy  Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 

HERMITS. 

Mix  together  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup 
pure  lard  softened,  and  two  level  teaspoonfuls  soda  dissolved 
in  a  cup  of  warm  water.  Add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  cinanmon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  six  cups  flour  and 
one  cup  fruit,  which  may  be  raisins,  seeded,  chopped  English 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  79 

currants  or  chopped  prunes.  Mix  very  soft,  cut  out  with  a 
cooky  cutter  and  bake  in  floured  tins  in  a  medium  hot  oven. — 
Mrs.  John  Langowsky,  Williams,  Ariz. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  KISSES. 

The  secret  of  good  kisses  lies  in  the  beating.  Beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  two  cupfuls  of  granulated 
sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar.  Beat  well  for  twenty 
minutes.  Turn  your  making  pan  upside  down,  and  cover  with 
oiled  paper.  Drop  the  mixture  in  teaspoonfuls  on  the  pan. 
Then  bake  slowly  twenty-five  minutes.  This  quantity  make*, 
two  dozen. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Smith,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MACAROONS. 

Whites  of  two  large  eggs  beaten  stiffly.  Add  gradually, 
one  cup  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  grated  chocolate 
(steamed  over  kettle  to  melt),  one  cup  nuts  (walnuts  are  best) 
chopped.  Flavoring — one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Drop  by 
teaspoonfuls.  Bake  in  lightly  buttered  pans  or  on  paper  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Take  off  on  platter  to 
cool,  using  a  broad  knife  or  spatula.  Put  a  little  milk  on  each 
one,  also  a  marshmallow.  Let  stand  in  the  oven  till  melted  a 
little.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Delicious  and  rich. — Mrs. 
Geo.  A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

MACAROONS. 

Put  a  little  milk  on  each  one,  also  a  marshmallow.  Let  stand 
in  the  oven  till  melted  a  little.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 
Delicious  and  rich. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

DATE  MACAROONS. 

One  pound  dates  chopped  fine,  one  pound  blanched  almonds 
chopped  fine,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  one 
cup  granulated  sugar.  Beat  the  sugar  into  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  gradually,  add  the  dates  and  almonds  and  bake  the  mix- 
ture on  buttered  paper  in  a  moderate  oven. — Contributed. 

MACAROONS. 

Whites    two    eggs,    one- fourth    pound    pulverized    sugar, 
one  cup  nuts  ground,  drop  from  spoon  on  greased  paper,  bake 
in  slow  oven  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes.    To  make  stick  to-, 
gether  rub  with  white  of  egg. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Mclntire,  Phoenix, 
Ariz. 


82  TllK    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

MARGUERITES. 

Take  long  crackers,  spread  with  butter,  then  with  finely 
chopepd  nuts,  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff,  add  a  little  pul- 
verized sugar,  spread  over  crackers,  place  in  oven  to  brown.— 
Mrs.  A.  B.  Lebsch,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MARGUERITES. 

Long  Insland  Wafers.  Spread  with  a  rather  soft  frosting  in 
which  as  been  mixed  finely  chopped  nuts,  add  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  to  taste  good.  Brown  slightly  or  just  heat  to 
harden  in  the  oven.  Serve  with  afternoon  tea. — Mrs.  A.  O. 
Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 

MARGUERITES. 

One  dozen  crackers,  white  of  one  egg,  on  teaspoon ful  va- 
nilla, one-half  cup  sugar.  Beat  egg  till  stiff,  then  add  sugar, 
spread  on  crackers,  put  in  oven  till  hardens. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Sea- 
ton,  Portland,  Ore. 

MARGUERITES. 

Eighteen  crackers,  whites  of  seven  eggs,  one-fourth  cup 
sugar  and  two  tablespoons  walnuts  or  pecans  chopped  fine. 
Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  until  they  are  stiff,  add  sugar  and 
beat  briskly;  then  stir  in  chopped  nuts.  Spread  the  mixture  on 
the  crackers  and  put  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown. — Mrs. 
Roy  Perkins,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ROCKS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three-fourth  cup  butter 
(creamed),  one  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  nuts,  one  cup 
raisins,  three  eggs;  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter.  Drop 
with  spoon. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Jones,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

ROCKS. 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  gradually  while  beating  one- 
half  cup-sugar,  two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  two  cups  of  flour 
mixed  with  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  cloves, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  salt. 
Then  add  one-half  cup  each  chopped  nuts  and  raisins.  Shape 
*  into  balls  and  bake. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Marez,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  81 

RUSSIAN   ROCKS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one- 
half  pound  walnuts,  two  eggs,  four  tablespoons  hot  water,  One- 
half  box  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  cloves,  one  level  teaspoonful  soda,  two  and  one-half  cups 
flour.  Drop  from  spoon  into  pan. — Mrs.  E.  P.  Pooler,  Flag- 
staff, Ariz. 

SPONGE    DROP    CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one  tablespoon  of 
water,  one  small  teaspoon  baking  powder,  vanilla.  Beat  yolks 
until  very  light,  add  sugar,  beat  light  and  creamy,  add  water. 
Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  two  times.  Have  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  to  stiff  froth,  add  little  flour  lightly ;  then  little  of  whites 
of  eggs,  fold  in  lightly,  rest  of  flour  and  egg,  until  all  is  used. 
Drop  teaspoonful  on  tins  one  inch  apart.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven.  Ice  with  boiled  icing. — Mrs.  John  Juhl,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE    SQUARES. 

Six  eggs,  beat  whites  and  yolks  separately ;  add  to  yolks  a 
pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  pulverized  sugar,  one-half  cake  of  sweet 
chocolate,  pinch  of  allspice  and  cinnamon,  one-half  cup  of  flour, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder  heaped  a  little ;  add  last  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  a  well  greased  dripping  pan. 
\Yhen  baked  cut  in  half,  put  together  with  jelly.  Cut  in  squares, 
roll  in  pulverized  sugar. — Mrs.  Kitzenger,  Mainstee,  Mich. 

NUT    WAFERS. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  chopped  nuts — any  kind ;  one 
tablespoonful  flour,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  egg  well 
beaten.  Drop  mixture  on  well  oiled  pans,  leaving  room  for  them 
to  spread.  Moderately  slow  oven.  This  will  make  about  two 
dozen  wafers. — Mrs.  R.  R.  Ringwald,  Omaha,  Nebr. 


82  T1I1C    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WIWJAMS  PUBIJC  UBRARY  ASSOCIATION  83 


84  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILUAMS  PUBIJC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  85 


THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


CANDIES 


"These  recipes  are  fine  and  dandy  for  any  kind  of  home  made 
candy." 

NUT    BALLS. 

Take  great  quantities  of  nuts,  walnuts,  figs  and  dates,  run 
through  meat  grinder,  form  in  balls  size  of  walnut,  roll  in 
powdered  sugar. — Miss  Dempsey,  Manistee,  Mich. 

BUTTER   SCOTCH. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar  one-half  cup  butter,  four  table- 
spoons molasses,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  two  tablespoons 
water.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  pour  in  pan. — Mrs.  Geo.  A. 
Coles,  Middletown,  Conn. 

CANDY. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup 
milk,  butter  size  of  walnut,  mix  and  boil,  stirring  all  the  time : 
when  it  will  make  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water, 
take  from  stove  and  stir  in  a  cup  of  walnuts,  as  soon  as  it 
begins  to  look  a  little  thick  or  creamy,  pour  on  buttered 
plates,  when  it  has  set  mark  off  in  squares. — Mrs.  G.  W. 
Glowner,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE  POPCORN  BALLS. 

Pop  some  popcorn  and  pick  out  only  the  crisp,  tender  grains. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  of  water  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread  or  forms  a  hard  ball  when  dropped 
into  cold  water;  then  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour 
part  of  this  sugar  syrup  over  the  popcorn,  and  let  the  remainder 
stand  on  the  back  of  the  range.  Form  into  tiny  popcorn  balls 
with  the  fingers  and  then  dip  into  the  remaining  syrup  one  at  a 
time.  Set  aside  on  greased  paper  to  cool.  When  cool  dip  into 
melted  sweetened  chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  boiling  water,  boil  until 
threads  from  spoon,  take  from  stove  and  let  cool,  when  cool 
beat  until  hard,  mold  and  lay  on  paper  to  harden,  dip  in 
melted  chocolate,  half  walnut  on  each. — Miss  Myrtle  Juhl, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


88  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CRACKLE. 

Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  egg,  one  cup 
water,  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  when  it  hardens  in  cold 
water  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  teaspoon  vanilla,  as  soon 
as  cool  enough  to  handle  flour  the  hands  and  pull. — Mrs. 
Brophy,  Williams,  Ariz. 

NUT    AND    ORANGE    CREAM. 

Three  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  water,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  one  cup  chopped  walnuts,  one  cup  orange  peeling  chopped 
fine.  Cook  butter,  sugar  and  water  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball 
when  dropped  in  cold  water,  add  peeling  and  nuts  and  let  it  cool 
a  little  then  beat  it  until  it  is  creamy,  drop  in  balls  and  cool.— 
Miss  Margaret  A.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

'Sweets  to  the  sweet." 
CREAM  NUT  CANDY. 

One  cup  sugar  (cane),  one-half  cup  water,  one-half  cup 
corn  syrup,  one  cup  walnuts,  whites  of  two  eggs,  few  drops 
vanilla,  to  one  cup  sugar  add  one-half  cup  water  and  one- 
half  cup  corn  syrup  thoroughly  mixed,  stir  until  sugar  is 
slightly  dissolved  and  cook  until  syrup  threads  or  forms  a 
ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  remove  from  fire  and 
slowly  add  to  the  well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  beating 
constantly  until  thick  enough  to  pour  into  buttered  pans  or 
plater  lined  with  nuts,  when  cold  cut  in  cubes  and  serve. 
Just  before  pouring  the  candy  into  platter  add  the  flavoring. 
—Miss  Katherine  Wells,  Glendale,  Calif. 

WALNUT  CREAM  CANDY. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  equal  part  water,  stir  in  powdered 
sugar  until  stiff  enough  to  mold  in  the  hands  without  sticking, 
mold  into  balls  and  place  walnut  kernel  on  each  one  as  made, 
flavor  and  color  as  desired. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Glowner,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

CREAM  PEPPERMINTS. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  cook 
a  few  minutes,  stir  in  powdered  sugar  till  thick  enough  to 
mold,  add  eight  drops  of  oil  of  peppermint. — Mrs.  Geo.  A. 
Coles,  Middletown,  Conn. 

DIVINITY. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  corn  syrup,  one-half  cup 
cold  water,  pinch  of  salt,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one-quarter 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  ^  89 

pound  walnuts,  put  sugar,  syrup  and  water  in  a  sauce  pan 
on  stove  and  stir  until  dissolved,  cook,  stirring  occassionally 
until  it  strings  or  forms  a  hard  ball  when  put  in  cold  water, 
then  stir  in  this  hot  syrup  the  white  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
remove  the  mixture  from  stove,  set  in  pan  cold  water  and 
beat  constantly  until  stiff  and  creamy,  add  the  nuts,  put  in 
buttered  dish  cut  in  squares  and  let  cool. — Miss  Pearl  Bruner, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

DIVINITY. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  corn  syrup,  one-half  cup 
water,  boil  until  candy  makes  a  fine  soft  ball  in  cold  water 
then  pour  boiling  candy  into  beaten  whites  'of  two  eggs  and 
beat  till  almost  cold,  then  add  one-half  cup  chopped  nuts, 
season  with  vanilla  and  pour  in  buttered  plates  to  cool. — Miss 
Metlar,  San  Francisco,  Calif. 

PEPPERMINT    DROPS. 

Two  cupfnls  granulated  sagar,  one-half  cup  water,  boil 
three  minutes,  then  add  two  teaspoonfuls  essence  of  pepper- 
mint. Take  from  the  fire,  stirring  hard  until  creamy,  mold 
with  hands  or  drop  from  teaspoon.  Mrs.  E.  L.  Donahue, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

STUFFED   FIGS. 

One  pound  pulled  figs,  one  white  of  egg,  one-half  pound 
mixed  nuts,  six  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  one-half  tea- 
spoon vanilla  or  half  of  grated  rind,  yellow  rind  of  orange. 
Mehtod — The  nut  mixture  may  consist  of  almonds,  pecans, 
English  walnuts  and  fine  nuts.  Chop  them  very  fine.  Beat 
the  white  of  one  egg  until  partly  light  and  gradually  beat  in 
the  powdered  sugar,  continuing  until  mixture  is  stiff.  Stir 
in  the  nuts  and  vanilla  or  orange  rind,  mix  thoroughly.  Split 
the  figs  carefully  on  one  side  and  scrape  out. a  portion  of  the 
inside  flesh,  mix  it  with  nuts ;  then  stuff  the  figs  until  they 
are  quite  distended,  putting  the  skin  together  so  that  the  split 
may  not  be  seen.  Arrange  on  a  doylie  in  a  glass  dish  and 
serve  as  bon-bons. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Richardson,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif. 

SEA   FOAM. 

Four  cups  sugar,  one  cup  Karo  syrup,  one  cup  of  water ; 
boil  until  test  forms  hard  ball  in  water,  have  ready  whites  of 
four  eggs  beaten  stiff;  over  these  slowly  pour  syrup,  beating 
constantly.  For  this  use  two  cups  of  nut  meats.  This 


90  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

candy  may  be  molded  in  a  deep  cake  pan  for  slicing  or  turned 
into  a  platter  and  cut  out  in  pieces. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Coleman, 
Wichita,  Kan. 

OCEAN    FOAM. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses,  (Rose  Bud  Drip,) 
one-half  cup  boiling  water.  Boil  until  it  hardens  in  water. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
one  cup  chopped  walnuts,  beat  until  stiff.  Drop  on  buttered 
plates. — Miss  Marie  Poison,  Williams,  Ariz. 

» 

FONDANT. 

One  and  one-half  pints  granulated  sugar,  one-half  pint  water, 
one  teaspoonful  vinegar  or  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar.  Boil  till  it  makes  a.  soft  ball  in  water,  cool  till  hike 
warm,  then  flavor  and  stir  till  it  gets  like  dough.  It  can  be 
molded  at  once  or  placed  in  a  sealed  jar  for  future  use. — Miss 
Hallie  Eisiminger,  Congress,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE. 

Two  tea  cups  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  butter,  one  cup  milk, 
two  heaping  tablespoons  cocoa,  stir  sugar  and  cocoa  together, 
add  milk  and  stir  till  boiling  then  add  butter,  when  about 
done  stir  a  little  on  a  saucer  and  if  it  becomes  pretty  thick, 
take  off  the  fire  and  beat,  then  pour  into  buttered  dish  and 
cut  into  squares. — Miss  Leslie  Mayflower,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE. 

Two  cups  of  cream  or  milk  to  three  and  one-half  cups  of 
granulated  sugar,  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  the  mix- 
ture until  it  threads,  then  add  one-fourth  pound  of  Baker's 
chocolate,  melted,  and  boil  briskly  for  ten  minutes.  Then  add 
one  tablespoon  of  vanilla  and  two  cups  of  crushed  walnuts ; 
beat  until  it  begins  to  grain,  then  turn  in  platter.  When  cool, 
mark  in  squares.— Mrs.  Wilson  H.  Campbell,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BURNT  ALMOND  FUDGE. 

Brown  blanched  almonds  in  the  oven  and  chop  rather 
coarsely.  Brown  one-half  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  in  a 
granite  pan;  then  add  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  and  when  the 
browned  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved  add  one  cupful  of 
granulated  sugar  and  one'tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  until  it 
makes  a  firm  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water;  flavor  with 
almond  extract  and  add  one  cupful  of  the  brown  almonds ;  stir 
until  creamy,  then  pour  into  pans  and  mark  off  into  squares. 


WIUJAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  91 

MAPLE  FUDGE. 

Two  cup  fills  maple  sugar,  one  cupful  cream  (condensed), 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Stir  occasionally  as  it  cooks.  When 
it  hardens  in  water,  stir  until  it  thickens  ,then  pour  out  in 
greased  pans.  Chopped  nuts  add  greatly  to  the  above. — Miss 
Margarette  A.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MAPLE  FUDGE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  maple  syrup,  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  butter.  Let  boil  until  when  a  little 
stirred  in  a  cool  dish  will  cream,  then  remove  from  stove  and 
add  one  cup  chopped  walnuts  and  stir  until  creamy.  Pour  in 
buttered  pan  and  mark  in  squares.  Set  aside  to  cool. — Mrs.  I. 
Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 

SOUK    CREAM    FUDGE. 

Two  cups  dark  brown  sugar,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  two 
squares  of  Baker's  chocolate,  two  tablespoons  of  Karo  syrup, 
four  tablespoons  of  sour  cream.  Cook  until  test  forms  very 
soft  ball  in  water,  remove  from  fire,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
vanilla,  and  beat  smooth.  Nuts  may  be  added  if  desired. — 
Mrs.  E.  A.  Coleman,  Wichita,  Kans. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Take  one,-half  box  gelatine,  put  to  soak  in  six  table- 
spoons of  cold  water.  Take  two  teacups  white  sugar  and 
eight  tablespoons  boiling  water.  Let  cook  till  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  in  water.  Just  before  taking  from  the  stove  add  a  pinch  of 
cream  tartar.  Put  gelatine  in  and  beat  one-half  hour.  Flavor 
when  half  beaten.  Pour  into  a  platter  lined  with  pulverized 
sugar.  When  cold,  cut  in  squares  and  roll  in  pulverized  sugar. 
—Miss  Lenia  Eisiminger,  Yuma,  Ariz. 

• 

NUT  FOAM  CHOCOLATES. 

Place  in  a  saucepan  two  cup  fills  of  granulated  sugar,  one- 
half  cupful  of  water  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar.  Boil  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  when  dropped  into  cold 
water.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  pour  over  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  until  foamy.  Drop  from  a 
spoon  onto  a  greased  paper  or  buttered  plates,  that  have  been 
spread  with  chopped  nut  meats.  Press  chopped  meats  over 
the  top,  mark  off  into  squares,  then  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
cool  dip  into  melted  chocolate  fondant  or  melted  chocolate. 
These  will  be  light  and  foamy  in  the  inside  and  delicious  to  the 
taste. 


92  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

NUT    NOUGAT. 

Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  corn'  syrup, 
one-half  cup  water  (just  enough  to  dissolve  sugar),  whites  of 
two  eggs,  two  cups  nuts  (broken).  Put  sugar,  syrup  and  water 
over  the  fire  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  let  boil  until  the 
mixture  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  When 
the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  turn  slowly  into  the  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs,  beating  until  thick,  Add  nuts  (also  raisins),  and 
flavoring  if  desired. — Mrs.  Allan  F.  Hunt,  San  Diego,  Calif. 

PANOCHE. 

Set  three  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  cream 
over  the  fire.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  until  it  makes  a  soft 
ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  when  cool  (not 
cold)  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  beat  until  it  is  creamy. 
Add  one  cup  of  nut  meats  and  pour  into  a  buttered  pan. — Miss 
Sutherland,  Tarkio,  Mo. 

PANOC1IK. 

Two  cupfuls  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  white  sugar,  one  cup- 
ful milk,  one  cupful  chopped  walnuts,  one-quarter  cupful  mo- 
lasse,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  chocolate, 
one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one  saltspoonful  salt.  Let  the  sugar, 
milk,  butter,  salt  and  molasses  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  choc- 
olate and  nuts.  Boil  until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  vanilla. 
Remove  it  from  the  fire  and  stir  and  whip  until  it  thickens. 
After  placing  on  buttered  tins  to  cool,  mark  in  squares,  cubes, 
diamonds  or  circles. — Miss  Margarette  A.  Dermont,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

FLUFFY  RUFFLES  OR  DIVINITY  FUDGE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one-half  cup  corn 
syrup,  pinch  salt.  Cook  (without  stirring)  until  it  forms  quite 
a  hard  ball  in  water,  much  harder  than  for  fudge,  but  not  brit- 
tle. Pour  slowly  into  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  thick.  Add  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  last  of  all 
one  pound  chopped  walnuts. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Buckee,  Jr. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  93 


CHAFING  DISH 


SALTED    ALMONDS.  , 

Half  pound  of  almonds,  tablespoon  of  butter  or  olive  oil,  salt. 
Shell,  blanch  and  dry  the  almonds.  Heat  the  butter  or  oil  in 
the  chafing  dish,  then  add  the  almonds.  Cook  to  a  delicate 
brown.  Shake  the  dish  constantly  and  stir  often  to  keep  from 
burning.  Drain  trie  almonds  and  dry  on  soft  paper,  and  then 
sprinkle  with  fine  salt. — Contributed. 

EGGS  WITH  ASPARAGUS. 

Five  eggs,  one-half  can  of  asparagus,  one-half  pint  of  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Boil  the  milk,  and  stir 
in  slowly  the  flour  rubbed  into  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper ;  when 
creamy  stir  in  the  tips  of  asparagus ;  break  in  the  eggs,  and  cook 
without  stirring  until  they  are  set.  Serve  from  the  dish. 

STEWED   REED    BIRDS. 

Four  Reed  Birds,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  one-half  cup  rich  stock, 
one  teaspoon  vinegar.  Put  into  the  chafing  dish  about  two 
walnuts  butter,  or  enough  to  float  the  birds.  Season  with  salt 
and  peper,  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  turning  them  frequently. 
Lay  two  birds  on  each  slice  of  toast  and  pour  over  them  a  gravy 
made  from  the  stock  and  vinegar.  Serve  hot. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Four  cups  of  minced  chicken,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  three 
eggs  and  drawn  butter.  Roll  chicken,  bread  crumbs,  eggs,  sea- 
soning (and  enough  drawn  butter  to  moisten),  into  pear-shaped 
balls.  Dip  them  into  beaten  eggs  and  bread  crumbs.  Put  into 
the  chafing  dish  with  enough  butter  to  fry  a  nice  brown. 

CREAMED   CHICKEN. 

Two  cups  cold  chicken  cut  into  small  pieces,  one  cup  of 
chicken  stock,  one  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Cook  the  butter  and  flour  together  in  the  chafing  dish.  Add 
the  stock  and  milk  and  stir  until  smooth.  Put  in  the  chicken, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  three, minutes  longer. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  95 

STEWED    SOFT    CLAMS. 

One-half  dozen  large  soft  clams,  one  teaspoonful  of  bptter, 
one-half  point  of  boiled  milk,  one  spoonful  of  cracker  dust,  salt 
and  a  dash  of  Cayenne  pepper.  Trim  the  rough  parts  from  the 
clams.  Put  in  the  chafing  dish  the  butter,  and  when  quite  hot 
add  the  boiled  milk,  qracker  dust,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer 
three  minutes. 

EGGS   WITH   CURRY.   , 

Five  eggs,  one  gill  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  one-half  tdaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
half  an  onion.  Rub  inside  of  chafing  dish  with  the  onion  and 
put  in  the  butter.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  the  curry  powder  dis- 
solved in  milk.  Turn  all  into  the  chafing  dish  and  stir  until 
smooth. 

EGGS  WITH  CHEESE. 

Six  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  one  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice  or 
choped  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  paprika,  and  a  little  salt. 
Mix  the  cheese,  butter,  onion,  paprika  and  salt  in  the  hot  gan, 
and  stir  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl, 
pour  them  into  the  cheese,  reduce  the  flame  of  lamp,  and  stir 
until  done.  Stir  in  chopped  parsley  and  serve  with  toast. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  OLIVES. 

Five  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-fourth  cup  of 
milk,  salt  and  pepper,  one  cup  of  olives  cut  into  dice.  Into  the 
food  pan,  over  boiling  water  put  the  butter.  Turn  in  the  eggs 
which  have  been  beaten  up  with  the  milk.  Stir  in  salt  and 
pepper,  and  keep  stirring  occasionally  until  the  eggs  are  creamy 
and  firm.  Then  put  out  the  flame  and  stir  in  the  olives. 

FROG    SADDLES. 

Frog's  legs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  gill  of  cream, 
pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg.  Melt  the  butter,  stir  the  flour  into  it 
until  smooth  and  add  the  cream.  Then  put  in  the  legs,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 
A  little  more  cream  may  be  added  while  cooking,  if  necessary. 

CREAMED  HALIBUT. 

One  cupful  of  cold  boiled  halibut,  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  one 
cup  and  a  half  of  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  crumbs  of  flour 
crackers,  catsup,  salt,  pepper.  Shred  the  halibut  with  a  fork; 
put  the  milk  into  the  food  pan  with  hot  water  below,  and  let  it 


96  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

come  to  a  boil ;  add  butter,  walnut  satsup,  salt  and  pepper,  then 
the  cracker  crumbs  and  lastly  the  halibut.  Let  it  cook  five  min- 
utes, then  add  the  eggs  chopped  fine,  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter 
with  bits  of  buttered  toast. 

LAMB  CHOPS. 

Small  lamb  chops,  butter,  salt.  Rub  inside  of  chafing  dish 
with  butter.  Let  it  get  very  hot,  so  it  will  at  once  sear  the 
chops  and  prevent  the  escape  of  the  juices.  Turn  them  often 
while  cooking. 

LAMIJ    Oil    MUTTON    CURRY. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice, 
one  pint  of  lamb  cut  in  dice,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  curry 
powder.  Brow-n  together  in  the  hot  pan  the  butter,  onion, 
pepper  and  salt ;  stir  in  the  lamb  and  curry  powder ;  stir  well  and 
add  the  cream ;  boil  and  serve  with  rice  if  possible. 

LAMB    WITH    TOMATO. 

One  pint  of  lamb  stock,  one-half  pint  of  tomatoes,  chop- 
ped fine ;  one  pint  of  cold  lamb,  cut  in  dice;  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  white  pepper  and  salt. 
Boil  the  stock,  then  add  the  butter,  tabasco  if  convenient,  pepper, 
salt,  onion  and  tomato ;  boil  and  then  put  in  the  lamb,  and  sim- 
mer a  few  minutes. 

CALF'S  LIVER  AND   BACON. 

Bacon,  liver,  flour  and  pepper.  The  bacon  and  liver  should 
be  cut  in  thin  slices.  Put  the  bacon  in  the  chafing  dish.  When 
the  fat  is  cooked  out,  draw  the  bacon  to  one  side.  After  rolling 
in  flour  and  peppering,  put  in  the  liver  and  cook  until  brown  and 
tender,  turning  often.  Serve  a  slice  of  bacon  with  each  piece 
of  liver. 

CURRIED  LOBSTER. 

A  pint  each  of  lobster  and  weak  soup  stock,  one  teaspoonful 
finely  minced  onion,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  one 
correespoonful  of  salt.  Brown  the  onion  in  butter.  Add  the 
curry  powder,  stock  and  salt,  and  boil  them  together  for  five 
minutes.  Then  put  in  the  lobster  and  serve  as  soon  as  heated 
through.  Boiled  rice  should  be  served  with  this. 

LOBSTER   PATTIES. 

The  tail  part  of  two  boiled  lobster  cut  into  small  pieces  and 
seasoned  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  one 
pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  large  tablespoonful 


WILUAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  97 

of  butter.  In  the  chafing  dish  boil  a  pint  of  milk.  Dissolve  the 
flour  in  cold  milk  and  add  to  the  hot  milk.  When  thick  stir  in 
gradually  the  butter,  and  allow  it  to  become  quite  thick.  Stir 
the  lobster  into  the  sauce,  and  when  it  has  become  hot,  serve  by 
filling  the  previously  heated  shells  with  the  mixture. 

MUSHROOMS    WITH    BACON. 

One-half  dozen  slices  nice  English  bacon,  mushrooms — as 
many  as  you  like.  The  bacon  should  be  streaked  with  lean  and 
fried  in  the  usual  ways.  Just  before  it  is  done  add  mushrooms 
and  fry  them  slowly.  Serve  hot  as  possible. 

DEVILED  31EAT. 

Cold  rare  beef,  or  underdone  mutton,  or  wings,  drumsticks 
and  sidebones  of  roast  turkey,  or  large  chicken  may  be  used; 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  and 
one  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  made 
mustard,  and  a  pinch  of  Cayenne.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter, 
vinegar,  Worcestershire  sauce,  mustard  and  cayenne.  Mix 
these  thoroughly.  Make  cuts  in  the  meat  with  a  knife  and  rub 
this  sauce  into  them.  Rub  the  chafing  dish  with  a  little  butter, 
heat  it  and  grill  the  meat.  Serve  hot. 

PLAIN  OMELET. 

Four  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  walnut  of  butter. 
Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl  with  the  milk  and  whip  thoroughly. 
Put  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish,  and  when  very  hot  run  the 
eggs  into  it,  allowing  it  to  cook  until  thick.  Use  a  thin-bladed 
knife  to  loosen  it  from  the  bottom,  but  do  not  stir.  When 
done,  carefully  roll  the  edges  over  until  all  rolled  up.  Serve  on 
a  hot  plate. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half 
tablespoon  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  pint  of 
oysters,  clove,  nutmeg.  When  the  milk  boils,  stir  into  it  the 
butter  into  which  the  flour  has  been  rubbed ;  season  with  clove 
and  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg,  and  salt ;  when  creamy,  add  the 
oysters  without  their  liquor;  allow  them  to  be  just  heated 
through,  and  serve  on  thin  strips  of  buttered  toast. 

STEWED   OYSTERS. 

Two  dozen  good-sized  oysters,  one  and  one-half  pints  of 
milk,  a  walnut  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  dash 
of  white  pepper.  Boil  the  milk  in  the  chafing  dish.  Add  the 


98  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

oysters,  butter,  salt  and  pepper.     Allow  it  to  just  come  to  a 
boil,  then  serve.     Above  is  sufficient  for  four. 

SMOTHERED  OYSTER  IN  CHAFING  DISH. 

Put  tablespoon  butter  in  charing  dish,  salt  and  pepper,  add 
pint  drained  oysters ;  cover  and  cook  five  minutes,  serve  on 
toasted  crackers.  Fricasseed  oysters  may  be  prepared  in  this 
way  by  adding  one-half  cup  cream,  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
and  one  beaten  egg. — Mrs.  A.  O.  Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 

CREAMED    POTATOES. 

One  pint  cold  potatoes  cut  in  cubes  or  thin  slices,  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  chopped 
parsley.  Put  the  potatoes  in  the  chafing  dish  and  cover  with 
milk,  and  cook  until  the  milk  is  absorbed.  Then  add  the  butter, 
salt,  pepper  and  parsley.  Stir  a  few  moments  and  serve. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  twelve 
cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  dice ;  parsley,  salt,  pepper.  To  the 
butter  and  onions  add  the  potatoes,  and  stir  quickly  over  the 
open  flame  for  five  minutes,  taking  care  they  do  not  stick  to  the 
pan;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  chopped  parsley,  drain 
and  serve. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

One  pound  chopped  American  cheese,  yolk  of  an  egg,  one 
teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  butter,  a  dash  of  red  and  one  or  two  of  black  pepper, 
and  a  few  drops  of  tabasco.  If  the  cheese  is  fresh,  salt  the 
above.  Into  the  chafing  dish  put  a  few  small  lumps  of  butter. 
After  it  has  simmered  a  bit  put  in  the  cheese.  Stir  constantly. 
When  the  cheese  is  well  blended  stir  in  above  condiments  pre- 
pared as  follows :  To  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  broken  into  a  cup,  add 
the  dry  mustard  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  red  and  black  pepper 
and  tabasco.  Let  it  have  one  more  heating  and  pour  over  toast 
or  toasted  biscuit. 

WELSH  RAREBIT.  , 

One-half  pound  cheese  cut  in  cubes,  two  eggs  (beaten),  three 
tablespoons  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  quickly  in 
chafing  dish  with  small  piece  butter  in  same.  Serve  on  toast. — 
Miss  Blanche  Parsons,  Saginaw,  Mich. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  99 

RINKTUM  DITTY. 

Two  tablespoons  butter  (melt  in  pan),  one  cup  tomato  soup 
(add  to  butter),  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  cream,  one- 
half  pound  American  chees.  Have  cheese  well  melted  with 
other  mixture,  add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  season  with  peppr, 
salt  and  paprika.  Srve  on  salt  crackers. — Miss  Leatto  Thomp- 
son, Los  Anninas,  Colo. 

PAN    ROAST. 

One  dozen  large  oysters,  one-half  pint  of  oyster  liquor,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  the  butter  in  the 
chafing  dish,  and  as  it  creams  add  the  oysters,  liquor,  salt  and 
pepper.  Cover  and  cook  about  two  minutes.  Put  six  of  the 
oysters  on  a  thin  slice  of  toast,  with  sufficient  liquid  to  moisten 
the  toast,  and  serve. 

SARDINES  ON  TOAST. 

One  dozen  sardines,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  anchovy  paste,  one  tablespoonful  of  Sauterne  and 
a  little  tabasco.  Drain  and  remove  the  skins  of  the  sardines ; 
put  in  the  butter,  anchovy  paste,  tabasco  and  Sauterne;  lay  in 
the  sardines  carefully,  and  when  well  heated  through,  serve 
each  on  a  tiny  strip  of  toast. 

SWEETBREADS  WITH  PEAS. 

Can  of  peas,  three  small  sweetbreads,  one  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter, one-half  pint  of  stock  broth,  celery  leaf,  salt,  white  pepper, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  brown  flour.  Stand  the  sweetbreads  in 
cold  water  for  an  hour ;  then  parboil  and  remove  rough  edges, 
membranes,  sinews,  etc.  Put  in  cold  water  and  keep  in  ice  un- 
til wanted.  Put  into  the  chafing  dish  the  butter  and  the  sweet- 
breads. When  the  butter  has  been  absorbed  add  one-half  pint 
of  stock  and  the  celery  leaf,  chopped  fine,  the  salt,  pepper  and 
browned  flour.  Turn  the  sweetbreads.  When  the  same  is 
reduced  one-half  it  is  ready.  When  cooking,  open  a  can  of 
green  peas.  Warm  thoroughly  in  the  chafing  dish.  Put  in  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Serve  peas  and  sweet- 
breads together. 

BROOK  TROUT. 

Brook  trout,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  flour,  lemon.  Clean 
the  fish  carefully  and  dredge  with  flour.  Put, the  butter  in  the 
chafing  dish,  and  when  hot  lay  in  the  trout  and  fry  to  a  nice 
brown.  Serve  as  soon  as  done,  with  sprigs  of  green  or  slices  of 
lemon  as  a  garniture.  No  salt  will  be  needed  when  fried  in 
butter. 


100  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

RECHAUFFE    OF    TURKEY. 

Sauce  made  of  a  tablespoon f til  of  butter  and  one  of  flour,  and 
one-half  pint  of  stock  made  from  the  turkey  bones ;  small  slices 
of  turkey,  pepper,  salt.  \Yarm  the  turkey  in  the  sauce,  and 
when  it  is  heated  through,  season  with  the  pepper,  salt,  and 
cook  two  minutes  longer. 

LOBSTER   A    LA    XEXVIJURGH. 

One  large  lobster;  one  pint  sweet  cream;  one  tablespoonful 
butter;  two  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

First  boil  the  lobster  for  twenty  minutes.  Then  pick  it  out 
in  small  pieces.  Pour  over  it  the  cream  and  add  the  butter 
and  flour  which  have  been  rolled  together.  Warm  in  a  chaf- 
ing dish  and  stir  gently  while  warming. 

Mistress — "Bridget,  have  you  ever  made  a  lobster  a  la  Newburgh?" 
Bridget — "No,  mum;  I  niver  worruked  further  up  th'  Hoodson  than 
Nyack." 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  101 


CHEESE 


BAKED  CHEESE. 

One-half  cup  grated  cheese,  one  egg,  three-fourth  cup  milk. 

Stir  all  together.      Season  with  salt  and  little  cayenne.     Bake 

quickly  and  serve  as  soon  as  it  is  done  before  it  falls.      About 

ten  minutes  should  be  long  enough  to  bake.     Serve  with  pie. 

—Mrs.  A.  O.  Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 

BAKED   SWISS  CHEESE. 

One  tablespoonful  melted  butter  in  baking  dish,  cover  bot- 
tom of  dish  with  thin  slices  of  _ Swiss  cheese,  put  in  four  well 
beaten  eggs,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  pour  four  table- 
spoonfuls  sweet  cream  over  this,  sprinkle  with  grated  Swiss 
cheese.  Bake  to  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Wm. 
F.  Dermout,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHEESE  BALLS. 

One  cup  grated  cheese,  white  of  one  egg,  beaten,  one 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  little  salt  and  red  pepper.  Roll  in 
balls,  dip  in  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  lard.  To  be  eaten  as 
soon  as  they  come  out  of  the  lard. — Mrs.  Bertha  Gibson, 
Manistee,  Mich. 

COTTAGE    CHEESE. 

Heat  sour  milk  until  the  whey  rises  to  the  top,  pour  oft" 
the  wey,  put  curd  in  a  bag  and  let  it  drip  for  six  hours  with- 
out squeezing  it.  Put  it  in  a  wooden  bowl,  chop  fine  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  salt  to  taste,  and  work  to  the  consistency  of 
soft  butter,  adding  a  little  cream  and  butter  as  you  proceed, 
mold  into  balls  or  as  you  choose.  Keep  in  a  cool  place. — 
Mrs.  W.  D.  Finney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  OR  SCHMIER  KASE. 

Take  three  gallons  of  fresh  clabber  milk  and  let  it  come  to 
a  boiling  point,  drain  off  curds  into  a  sack  and  let  it  hang 
until  all  whey  has  drained  off.  Then  remove  from  sack  into 
dish  and  salt,  pepper  to  taste.  Add  good  rich  cream. — Mrs. 
Wm.  Kay,  Williams,  Ariz. 

COTTAGE   CHEESE  PIE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  dry  Cottage  cheese,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  three  eggs,  little  lemon  juice,  one  teaspoon  melted 


WILUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  103 

butter  or  cream.  Press  cheese  through  a  colander,  beat  the 
egg  until  light  and  smooth,  add  other  ingrediants,  one  tea- 
spoon flour.  Use  one  crust. — Mrs.  Fred  W.  Sisson,  Oak 
Creek  Canyon,  Ariz. 

CHEESE    DREAMS. 

Cut  bakers  bread  in  squares  after  slicing  rather  thick 
and  between  each  lay  a  thick  slice  of  American  cheese. 
Dust  these  with  a  little  salt  and  cayenne,  Put  in  hot  chaf- 
ing dish,  one  tablespoon  butter,  \vhen  it  bubbles,  lay  in  two 
or  three  sandwiches,  when  the  bread  is  well  browned  and 
cheese  melted.  Serve  on  hot  dishes. — J.  W.  Baylis,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

One  cup  good  cheese,  grated,  one  one-half  cups  flour,  pinch 
salt,  three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
milk  enough  to  make  right  consistency  to  role.  Work  to- 
gether thoroughly  but  do  not  handle  more  than  necessary. 
Role  thin  as  pastry,  cut  in  strips  three-quarter  inch  wide  about 
eight  inches  long,  bake  in  oven  at  bread  heat,  light  brown. 
Makes  three  dozen  straws. — Mrs.  T.  A.  Barney,  New  Haven, 
Conn. 

CHEESE    SOUFFLE. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  paprika  , one-half 
cupful  milk,  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  whites  of  two,  one  cupful 
grated  cheese.  Blend  butter  and  flour,  add  salt,  paprika 
minutes.  Serve  immediately. — Mrs.  I.  E.  Pollock,  Flagstaff, 

CHEESE   STRAWS. 

Sift  together  one-fourth  cup  corn  starch,  three-fourths  cup 
flour,  add  one-fourth  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  three-fourths  cup  grated  cheese,  five  tablespoon- 
fuls soft  butter,  a  dash  of  paprika,  and  one  unbeaten  egg.  Mix 
all  together,  and  add  enough  milk  or  water  to  make  a-very  stiff 
dough.  Knead  well  by  folding  it  over  and  over  so  as  to  make 
layers,  as  in  pastry  baking.  Roll  out  dough  into  three-fourth 
inch  sheet,  squaring  up  edges  with  knife,  and  cut  into  strips 
four  or  five  inches  long,  one-half  inch  wide,  lay  on  a  greased 
pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  golden  brown.  Nice  to 
serve  with  salads. 


104  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

FOK  CHEESE  CAKES. 

Have  a  nice  pastry  crust  and  use  it  to  line  large  or 
small  tins,  but  this  time  do  not  bake,  until  the  filling  is  added. 
Have  ready  two  cupfuls  of  cottage  cheese,  add  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  two  eggs  and  a 
little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Beat  well  together,  pour  into  the 
crust  and  bake  golden  brown.  These  are  good,  either  hot  or 
cold. — Mrs.  A.  D.  Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 

POTTED   CHEESE. 

One  pound  of  grated  cheese,  one-half  cupful  of  cream,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  It  is  well  to  use  for  this  dish  any  dry 
or  stale  pieces  of  cheese,  and  cayenne  pepper  is  a  little  better 
than  the  ordinary  pepper.  Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  bowl  and 
set  the  bowl  in  a  dish  of  hot  water  on  the  fire.  Beat  the  mixture 
until  it  becomes  smooth;  then  put  in  jars  and  seal  them  care- 
fully. The  cheese  may  be  used  as  soon  as  it  is  made,  but  it  will 
keep  for  some  time. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  105 


CONDIMENTS 


SALTED    ALMONDS. 


Shell  hull  and  halve  your  almonds.  Have  pot  of  hot  lard 
or  oil  ready.  Put  in  almonds  just  moment  to  heat  through 
Remove  on  paper,  and  salt  while  warm. — Contributed,  Grand 
Rapids,  Mich. 

SALTED   ALMONDS. 

Shell  and  blanch  number  almonds  needed.  Put  in  pan  in 
over  to  dry  out.  ,Add  sufficient  butter  to  brown  nicely.  Re- 
move from  oven  and  pan,  placing  on  clean  paper  to  absorb 
extra  butter,  salt  to  taste.  Many  prefer  cooking  on  top  of 
range  instead  of  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  Dermout,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PARSLEY   BUTTER. 

One  teaspoon  minced  parsley,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one 
teaspoon  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Rub  the  butter  to 
a  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper,  work  in  the  lemon  juice,  mix 
in  parsley.  Delicious  with  fish. — Mrs.  D.  J.  Brannen,  Los 
Angeles,  Cal. 

APPLE  CATSUP. 

A  farmer's  wife  who  says  that  she  has  tried  it,  declares 
that  just  as  good  catsup  can  be  made  from  apples  as  from 
tomatoes.  Cook  the  apples  until  tender  and  then  make  the 
catsup  after  the  recipe  for  tomato  catsup. — Contributed. 

GRAPE  CATSUP. 

Five  pounds  ripe  grapes,  two  one-half  pounds  sugar,  one 
pint  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  cloves, 
one  tablespoon  allspice,  one  tablespoon  pepper,  one  tablespon 
salt.  Boil  grapes  in  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  strain 
through  collander,  add  spice,  boil  till  it  thickens  a  little.  Bot- 
tle and  seal. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

ORIENTAL   CANAPES. 

Take  some  lobster  or  crab  meat  and  pound  in  a  mortar. 
Mix  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  a  pinch  each  of  mustard,  cayenne,  nutmeg  and  curry 
powder  and  moisten  with  lemon  juice.  Cut  small  rounds  of 
toasted  bread,  scoop  out  the  center  of  same,  fill  with  the  mix- 
ture and  cover  with  a  curry  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  hard 


WILLIAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  107 

bread  crumbs,  and  let  bake  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes.     Serve 
hot.     Garnish  with  parsley  or  water  cress. 
Curry  Sauce  for  Above. 

One  tablespooful  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  curry  powder,  one  large  slice  onion,  one  large  cupful 
stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  cut  the  onion  fine  and  fry 
brown  in  the  butter.  Add  flour  and  curry  powder,  stir,  add 
the  stock.  Simmer  ten  minutes,  then  strain. — Mrs.  Geo.  B. 
McLellan,  Philippine  Islands. 

CHEESE   FOR   CANAPE. 

Take  a  little  Roquefort  cheese  and  a  little  Neufchatel 
cheese,  a  little  butter  and  pinch  of  salt,  add  Saprica  Sepper, 
mix  well,  add  a  little  anchovy  sauce  and  a  little  olive  oil,  and 
fine  chopped  olives. — S.  O.  Delagarcl,  Fred  Harvey  System. 

CANAPES. 

These  are  small  portions  of  bread  covered  with  simple 
compound  mixture  of  fish,  meat,  eggs,  cheese,  etc.,  seasoned 
highly  and  served  as  a  first  course  to  tempt  the  jaded  appe- 
tite. Cut  either  white,  graham,  rye  or  brown  bread  in  one- 
fourth  inch  slices  and  then  in  oblongs,  triangles,  rings,  circles, 
crescent  or  diamond  shape  some  acceptable  combinations. 

No.  1.  Equal  portions  mashed  sardines  and  hard  boiled 
yolks.  Season  with  lemon  juice,  pile  in  center  of  bread  with 
minced  whites  around  it,  lay  slices  of  pickle  across  diagon- 
ally. 

No.  2.  Spread  with  mustard,  grated  cheese  and  a  thin 
slice  of  pimala  or  a  border  of  chipped  green  apples. 

No.  3.  Creamed  butter,  minced  water  cress,  lemon  juice, 
minced  lobster  or  crab  meat  or  a  layer  of  caviar  or  anchovy 
paste. 

No.  4.  Minced  ham  or  tonque  made  into  paste  with 
creamed  butter  and  mustard.  Garnish  with  minced  olives  or 
pickles,  or  slices  of  cucumbers. 

Raw  Oysters.  Serve  from  4  to  6  in  the  shell  on  fine  chip- 
ped ice. 

Sauce.  Mix  two  tablespons  each,  horse  radish,  lemon 
juice,  tomato  catsup,  one  teaspoon  salt. — Contributed. 

OLD  ENGLISH  RECIPE  FOR  MUSHROOM  CATSUP. 

Two  quarts  mushrooms,  one-quarter  pound  of  salt,  lay  in 
an  earthenware  pan  in  alternate  layers  of  mushrooms  and 
salt,  let  them  lay  six  hours  then  break  into  bits.  Set  in  a 


108  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

cool  place  three  days,  stirring  thoroughly  every  morning. 
Measure  the  juice  when  you  have  strained  it  and  to  every 
quart  allow  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  the  same  quantity  of 
ginger,  half  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  mace,  a  teaspoon  of 
cayenne.  Put  into  a  stone  jar  cover  closely,  set  in  a  sauce 
pan  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire  and  boil  five  hours  hard. 
Take  it  off  and  empty  into  a  porcelain  kettle  and  boil  slowly 
half  an  hour  longer.  Let  it  stand  all  night  in  a  cool  place 
until  settled  and  clear.  Pour  off  carefully  from  the  sedi- 
ment and  bottle,  filling  the  bottle  to  the  mouth. — Win.  Kay, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

KETCHUP. 

Two  quarts  tomatoes,  one  cup,  chopped  onions,  four  table- 
spoons sugar,  two  tablespoons  salt,  two  tablespoons  ginger, 
cloves,  cinnamon,  one  quart  vinegar.     Boil  down  until  thick. 
—Mrs.  L.  Thomas  recipe,  from  Mrs.  Fred  W.   Sisson,  Oak 
Creek  Canyon,  Lohomai  Lodge. 

SAI/TED  PECANS. 

Procure  fresh  shelled  pecans.  Put  required  number  in  a 
dripping  pan  in  the  oven  with  butter  enough  to  brown  nicely. 
Remove  from  oven  and  pan,  placing  on  piece  of  brown  pa- 
per until  surplus  butter  is  absorbed.  Salt  to  taste  and  serve 
just  a  little  warm.  Will  keep,  but  always  re-heat  before 
serving. — Mrs.  Dermout,  Williams,  Ariz.  • 

SUNSHINE  RELISH. 

Six  pounds  crab  apples,  quartered  and  cored  and  cut  each 
quarter  in  half,  six  pounds  sugar,  two  pounds  raisins,  two 
oranges  chopped,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  cloves, 
three  teaspoonfuls  cloves,  three  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon  (nut 
in  bag).  Put  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  together,  and  then 
let  boil,  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  boil  twenty  min- 
utes.— Mrs.  Don  Reed,  Harper,  Kans. 

COM)    RELISH. 

Eight  quarts  ripe  tomatoes,  six  large  onions,  t\vo  cups 
chopped  celery,  three  red  peppers,  one  pound  brown  sugar, 
one  quart  vinegar,  two  ounces  mustard  seed,  one  ounce 
ground  cinnamon,  one  cup  salt.  Chop  tomatoes  and  drain 
through  colander.  Chop  all  and  mix.  Do  not  cook.  Put 
in  fruit  jars. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Ayer,  Detroit,  Mich. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  109 

TOMATO   RELISH. 

Chop  fine  equal  parts  ripe  tomatoes  and  celery,  small 
onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  also  sugar  and  vinegar  to 
taste.  Serve  with  meats. — Mrs.  A.  D.  Lebsch,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

TOMATO  RELISH. 

Tomatoes  one  package,  celery  two  cups,  six  large  onions, 
two  green  peppers,  two  cups  sugar,  one-half  <tup  salt,  two 
ounces  white  mustard  seed,  one  quart  vinegar.  Peel  toma- 
toes, chop  fine  and  drain  over  night  in  a  jelly  bag,  chop  on- 
ions, celery  and  pepper  fine.  Mix  well  and  bottle.  Does 
not  require  beating.  Seal  with  parafine. — Mrs.  T.  E.  Pol- 
lock, Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 

Chop  six  heads  of  celery  and  three  heads  of  cauliflower, 
(soak  cauliflower  in  brine  overnight)  and  three  red  peppers 
very  fine.  Mix  eight  tablespoons  flour,  one-quarter  pound 
mustard,  one  ounce  tumeric  powder  with  one  and  one-half  gal- 
lons vinegar,  add  chopped  vegetables  and  boil  one  hour.  Bot- 
tle like  catsup. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Ayer,  Detroit,  Mich. 

SAUCE  TARTARE. 

To  mayonaise  dressing  made  with  one  cup  olive  oil,  add 
one  or  two  tablespoons  each,  chopped  olives,  capers,  gherkins, 
parsley  and  a  little  finely  chopped  onions. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


110  TllK    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


- 

__  ,  __  •     __  :  _ 


i 


_, :^_ 


/. 


L 


<g^7-V 


•    .  v.  .  . 


.  -   ^ 


WILUAMS,PUBUC_r,IURARY  ASSOCIATION  HI 


-i 

__  JL_  __  ._'       ,     '  __  ,  _  .  _ 

x   -' 


:  ___  .__ 
^ 


A-4-T-*- 





COOKIES 


AUSTRALIAN    I>ATE    CAKE,    OR    COOKIKS. 

Three  cups  flour,  one  small  cup  sugar,  one-half  pound  butter, 
one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  two  eggs,  a 
little  milk.  Mix  and  roll  as  for  cookies;  place  a  seeded  date 
(flattened)  on  each  cooky  and  fold  edges  over.  If  preferred, 
dates  may  be  chopped  and  added  to  dough. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Phil- 
brook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar  and  one-half  cup  butter  beaten  together;  add 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
one-half  cup  each  raisins,  currants  and  figs  chopped,  add 
flour  enough  to  roll  out.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  E.  S. 
Marez,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

COOKIES. 

One-fourth  cup  blanched  almonds  chopped  fine,  one- 
half  cup  of  hard  butter  (free  from  salt),  one-fourth  cup 
sugar,  three  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  finely  mashed,  one 
raw  egg,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  pow- 
der. Mix  all,  together  stiff  enough  to  roll  out,  cut,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  J.  Salzman,  Los 
Angeles,  Calif. 

COOKIES  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

One  cup  of  lard,  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoon  soda;  flour  sufficient  to  make  stiff  enough 
to  roll,  nutmeg.  Roll  thin  and  bake. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Ayer, 
Detroit,  Mich. 

COOKIES. 

One  cug  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  one  nutmeg,  flour  sufficient  to  roll  out. — Mrs.  \V.  Pat- 
terson, Williams,  Ariz. 

COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  three-fourth  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  one- 
half  nutmeg,  three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately, 
one  quart  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Tried  many 
times  and  proven  good. — Mrs.  Mary  McLeib,  Anaheim,  Calif. 


WIUJAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  H3 

COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  add  two  eggs  and  beat  well,  one  cup 
butter  and  beat  well  again,  stir  one  teaspoon  soda  in  one  cup 
of  sour  milk  and  add  to  the  mixture  enough  ilour  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Roll  thin  and  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  K. 
Wisehart,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

COOKIES. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  sweet 
milk,  nutmeg  or  other  flavoring  to  taste,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter.  Add  flour  to  make  stiff  dough,  roll  and  bake  in  hot 
oven. — Mrs.  Wm.  Kay.  Williams,  Ariz. 

COOKIES. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  milk, 
two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  flavor  with  nutmeg;  mix  soft,  roll 
thin,  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  A.  R. 
Kilgore,  Seattle,  Wash. 

COOKIES/ 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  lard,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  grated 
nutmeg.  Flour  enough  to  roll  out  nicely.— Mrs.  W.  Patterson, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

ALMOND   COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one  pound 
chpoped  almonds  (do  not  blanch),  saving  out  one-quarter 
pound  for  top,  one-quarter  cup  milk  (sweet),  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  enough  flour  to  roll  out,  vanilla.  Roll  thin, 
cut  with  heart-shaped  cutter;  moisten  top  with  beaten  yolk 
and  milk.  Sprinkle  the  reserve  one-quarter  pounds  almonds 
over  them  and  lastly  dust  with. sugar.  Will  keep  six  months. 
—Mrs.  L.  E.  Morris,  Manistee,  Mich. 

CHOCOLATE    COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  squares  Baker's  chocolate, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  eight  teaspoons  butter,  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  salt,  one-quarter  cup  milk,  two  and  one-quarter 
cups  flour,  one  egg.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually, 
egg  beaten  well,  salt  and  chocolate  melted.  Sift  baking  powder 
and  flour  together.— Mrs.  Richardson,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

CHOCOLATE    COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  three  and  one-quarter  cups  flour,  two-thirds 
cup  milk,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  va- 


114  TIFE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

nilla,  two  eggs,  two  small  squares  chocolate  melted  with  one- 
half  cup  butter.  Drop  on  tins  to  bake.- — Miss  Carrie  W. 
Schoff,  Maine,  Ariz. 


CHOCOLATE    COOK  IKS. 


One  teacup  sugar,  one-half  teacup  butter,  one  square 
chocolate,  one  teacup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder  and  flour  enough  to  mix  stiff.  Drop  in  tins.— 
Mrs.  James  Dalton,  Williams,  Ariz. 


CHOCOLATE  DROPS. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  two 
eggs,  one  square  of  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der, one  one-half  cups  flour. — Mrs.  Jas.  A.  Johnson,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

CREAM   COOKIES. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful  butter,  four  beaten 
eggs,  one-half  cupful  milk,  six  cup  fills  -flour,  three  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  salt.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs 
then  milk,  sift  baking  powder  and  salt  into  the  flour,  mix  flour 
into  creamed  butter.  Put  little  flour  on  baking  board,  roll 
out  thin,  cut  small,  brush  with  white  of  an  egg,  place  half 
an  almond  on  each  cookie.  Bake  quickly  in  pans  on  oiled 
paper. — Mrs.  Charlotte  W^ickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

CREAM  COOKIES. 

One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  vanilla,  sufficient1 
flour  to  roll  nicely.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  eggs,  milk, 
flour,  baking  powder  and  flavoring.  Roll  and  cut  with  fancy 
cookie  cutter  and  over  the  top  sprinkle  sugar  and  chopped 
almonds. — Mrs.  A.  F.  Johnson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ENGLISH   COOKIES. 

Cream  together  two  cups  C.  sugar  and  one  cup  Cottolene. 
two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspoon  soda,  three  cups  flour, 
spice  to  suit  taste,  one  cup  chopped  raisins  and  nuts.  Drop 
from  spoon  into  greased  pan  two  inches  apart.  Use  all  of 
the  flour. — Mrs.  Aphold,  Hawaiian  Islands. 

FRUIT  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  shorting,  (butter 
and  lard),  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  H5 

soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cloves, 
one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  chopped  walnuts  and 
flour  to  mix  soft. — Mrs.  Rose  L.  Hicks,  Williams,  Ariz. 


GINGER    COOKIES. 


One  and  one-half  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup 
lard,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar, 
a  little  salt,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one  small  teaspoon  of 
soda  in  milk.  Flour  enough  to  mix  soft.  Bake  in  hot  oven.— 
Mrs.  Jas.  A.  Johnson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

GINGER    COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  shortening  or 
butter,  three-fourths  cup  hot  coffee,  one  tablespoon  ginger, 
one  teaspoon  allspice,  two  eggs,  flour  enough  to  stiffen,  roll 
thin  and  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  John  Baumgartner,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

GINGER    COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one 
cup  butter,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  (not  heaping,)  one  level 
tablespoon  soda,  one-half  tablespoon  cloves,  one-half  table- 
spoon cinnamon,  five  cups  flour,  drop  from  spoon  and  bake 
quickly. — Mrs.  McDonald  Robinson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

GINGER    SNAPS. 

Boil  one  pint  of  molasses.  When  cooled  to  milk-warm, 
beat  into  it  one  beaten  egg  and  one  teacup  butter  and  lard, 
mixed  and  melted.  Add  two  tablespoons  ginger,  then  work  in 
one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  hot  water 
and  enough  sifted  flour  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  the  dough 
easily.  It  must  be  rolled  wafer  thin,  the  snaps  stamped  out 
and  baked  quickly.  Remove  carefully  from  the  pan  and  lay 
on  sheets  of  paper  until  cold  and  crispy. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Der- 
mout,  Williams,  Ariz. 

GINGER    SNAPS. 

Two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  shortening,  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  ginger  and  soda ;  flour  enough  to  roll  rather  stiff.  Bake 
in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Glowner,  Williams,  Ariz. 

GINGER    SNAPS. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  two-third  cup  lard,  two- 
third  cup  water,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ginger  and  soda. 
Have  the  lard  and  water  hot.  Flour  enough  to  roll  stiff. — 
Mrs.  J.  Selman,  Williams,  Ariz. 


116  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

GINGER    SNAPS. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  Cottolene,  three 
fourths  cup  boiling  water,  one  tablespoon  soda,  pinch  of  salt, 
two  tablespoons  ginger.  Flour  enough  to  roll  out.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Ed  Duboise,  Terlock,  Calif. 

GINGER    SNAPS. 

One-quarter  cup  each,  of  butter,  sugar  and  molasses,  one 
quarter  tablespoon  ginger,  one-quarter  teaspoon  soda,  and 
one  and  one-quarter  cups  flour.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar, 
add  the  molasses  and  then  the  ginger,  the  soda  and  flour.  Beat 
the  mixture  briskly,  roll  out  thin  on  a  floured  board,  cut  with 
cooky  cutter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Roy  Perkins, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

HERMIT    COOKIES. 

One  cup  butter,  one  and  one  half  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
cups  chopped  raisins,  three  eggs.  One  teaspoon  soda  in  one 
tablespoon  sweet  milk;  flour  to  roll  very  stiff.  Roll  thin  and 
bake  quickly. — Mrs.  S.  T.  Elliott,  Kingman,  Ariz. 

HERMIT    COOKIES. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two-thrid  cup  of  lard  and  but- 
ter, two  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  one  cup  of 
hot  water,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
one  cup  chopped  walnuts,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  three  cups 
of  flour. — Mrs.  Albert  S.  Lebsch,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LEMON  COOKIES. 

Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  scant ;  one  cup  water  or 
milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  sifted  with  the  flour,  a  little  nutmeg, 
mix  soft  and  roll  thin.  Sprinkle  sugar  on  top  of  each.  Al- 
monds can  also  be  used. — Mrs.  J.  Eetman,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES. 

One  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  one-half  cup  lard,  three- 
quarter  cup  boiling  water  poured  over;  one  heaping  teaspoon 
soda,  one  pinch  salt,  one  tablespoon  ginger.  Mix  with  flour, 
soft  as  possible,  and  roll. — Mrs.  Chas.  Wade,  Williams,  Ariz. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

Three  cups  oat  meal,  two  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  raisins  chopped,  four  table 
spoons  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  soda, 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  H7 

one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  eggs.  Add  chopped  nut 
meats  if  you  wish,  as  they  greatly  improve.  These  are  very 
fine. — Mrs.  Henskey,  Mulligan,  Mich. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

One-quarter  cupful  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoon fut 
butter,  one  beaten  egg,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  Quaker  oats, 
one-half  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one  quarter  teaspoonful 
salt.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  beaten  egg.  Stir  baking- 
powder  and  salt  in  the  oatmeal,  and  add  this  to  the  sugar, 
butter  and  egg.  Mix  lightly  and  drop  one  teaspoonful  in  n 
greased  pan.  Bake  quickly  in  a  hot  oven. — Miss  Charlotte 
Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

OAT  MEAL,  COOKIES. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
one  half  cup  of  sour  milk  with  one  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  two 
eggs,  three  cups  of  oat  meal  and  enough  white  flour  to  roll. 
Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Jatrick  Johnston,  Williams,  Ariz. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  shortening  (half  butter  and  lard), 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  soda,  three  eggs,  two  cups 
raisins,  one  cup  nuts,  four  cups  oat  meal  (chopped  fine),  three 
cups  flour.  Drop  from  teaspoon  on  to  greased  pan. — Mrs.  Clar- 
ence J.  Spellmire,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

One  cup  lard  or  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  rolled 
oats,  two  eggs,  four  tablespoons  sour  milk,  three-quarter  tea- 
spoon soda,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
two  cups  flour,  one  cup  raisins.  Drop  from  spoon  on  buttered 
paper. — Mrs.  H.  C,  Saunders,  Williams,  Ariz. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  lard,  three  eggs,  three  cups  milk, 
one  cup  raisins,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  two  cups  oatmeal, 
little  flour,  two  spoons  baking  powder. — Mrs.  James  Dalton, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  four 
eggs,  two  cups  of  raisins  chopped  fine,  four  cups  of  oat  meal, 
heaping  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  four  cups  of  flour,  teaspoonful 


118  TH£    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

of  soda,  dissolve  soda  in  just  a  little  hot  water.     Roll  thin 
and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Langston,  Monroe,  Mich. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

Two  one-half  cups  H.  O.,  oatmeal,  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  salt  mix  dry  in- 
gredients together,  add  beaten  egg  and  butter.  Drop  tea- 
spoonful  in  a  place  two  inches  apart  on  buttered  tin.  Bake  in 
slow  oven. — Mrs.  E.  M.  Victor.,  New  York. 

OAT  MEAL,  COOKIES. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  three  one-half  cups  oat  meal,  one  one- 
half  cups  flour,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  cup  lard.  Roll  thin  and  bake. — Mrs.  E. 
H.  Ayer,  Detroit,  Mich. 

OAT  MEAL  NUT  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  rolled  oats  in  one  cup  sour  milk  while  preparing, 
two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  scant  cup  Cottolene,  two  cups 
flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  cup  currants  or  raisins,  one 
cup  nut  meats.  Bake  in  greased  gem  pans  in  quick  oven.— 
Mrs.  J.  F.  Daggs.  Williams,  Ariz. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  three-quarter  cup  of  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  three-quarter  cup  of  sour 
milk,  two  cups  quaker  oats,  fluor  to  roll  out,  roll  very  thin. 
Cook  one  pound  dates  and  one  cup  of  sugar  together  and 
when  nearly  cool,  spread  between  two  cookies  and  bake.— 
Mrs.  Tefft,  Anacortes,  Wash. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

Two  teacups  sugar,  one  teacup  lard  or  Cottolene,  three 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  three  teacups  milk  (sweet 
milk),  one  teaspoonful  baking  soda,  one  teacup  raisins,  two 
teacups  oat  meal.  Flour  to  mix  stiff  and  drop  in  dripping 
pan  and  bake. — Mrs.  James  Dalton,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PEANUT    COOKIES. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
two  tablespoons  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two  tablespoons 
milk,  one-half  cup  finely  chopped  peanuts,  one  egg  well  beaten, 
one-half  cup  flour,  cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  milk  and  eggs. 
Sift  together  thoroughly  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  H9 

and  add   to  the  mixture,   then  add  peanuts.     Drop  by  tea- 
spoonfuls  on  an  unbuttered  tin  one-half  inch  apart ;  place  one 
half  peanut  on  each  and  bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Finney 
Williams,  Ariz. 

PEANUT    COOKIES. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  one  egg, 
cream  together,  mix  two-third  cap  flour  with  one-half  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  salt,  add  one  pint  chopped  peanuts, 
(saving  out  a  few  to  sprinkle  on  top).  Stir  all  together 
with  four  tablespoons  milk.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake 
quickly.  Makes  twenty-five  cookies. — Mrs.  T.  A.  Barney. 
New  Haven,  Conn. 

PLAIN    COOKIES. 

Add  one  cup  sugar,  one  large  tablespoon  butter  and  one  of 
lard,  three  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  lemon  extract;  flour  enough  to 
mix  soft. — Mrs.  Emerson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

1881  SEED  COOKIES. 

One  pound  flour,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 
cnp  of  milk  in  which  has  been  dissolved  one  small  spoon  soda, 
one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  and  a  generous  quantity  of 
caraway  seed.  Very  good. 

SOUR  MILK  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  lard,  one-half  cup  of  but- 
ter, three  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  teaspoonful  hot  water,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
one  teaspoon  nutmeg,  enough  flour  for  thin  dough.  Roll  thin. 
Bake' in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Albert  Lebsch,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES. 

One  egg,  one-half  cup  sour  cream,  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar.  Beat  egg  well,  add  milk  to  egg,  one  cup  butter,  three 
cups  flour,  flavoring,  roll  thin. — Miss  Lela  Morrison,  Los  An- 
geles, Calif. 

CHOCOLATE   SPICE  COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  cup  butter, 
six  tablespoon  cocoa,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  three  eggs.  Place  cinnamon,  butter  and  sugar  in 
dish  and  cream.  Then  add  well  beaten  whites.  Sift  flour, 
cocoa,  and  baking  powder  into  mixture,  making  soft  dough. 
Turn  out  on  board,  cut  in  squares,  bake  in  moderate  oven.  De- 
licious.— Contributed. 


120  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

SUGAR    COOKIES. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  vanilla,  enough  flour  to  roll 
nicely,  one  egg.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg,  then  milk, 
flour,  baking  powder  and  flavoring.  Roll,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  roll  slightly  again.  Cut  and  bake  in  hot  oven. — 
Mrs.  A.  F.  Johnson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SUGAR   COOKIES. 

Two  cup  fills  sugar,  one  cupful  butter,  two  eggs,  four 
tablespoonfuls  sour  milk,  one  tablespoonful  soda,  flavor  with 
nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  add  two  cupfuls  flour  and  roll. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  roll  again  lightly. — Mrs.  C.  M. 
Wolfe,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SUGAR   COOKIES. 

Two  eggs,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  shortening,  two- 
third  cup  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  sifted 
in  the  flour.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  James  L.  Wade,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

SUGAR   COOKIES. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  shortening,  two  eggs, 
one  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoons 
soda,  sifted  with  flour  enough  to  mix  soft,  one-half  cup  cold 
water.  Flavor. — Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Glowner,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SUGAR   COOKIES. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  one 
scant  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
flavoring.  Put  baking  powder  into  flour  and  mix  with  sugar 
and  add  butter.  Beat  the  white  and  yolks  separately,  then 
add  eggs  and  flavoring  last. — Helen  J.  Stark,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

WHITE  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sour  cream,  three  eggs,  one  cup 
butter,  one  teaspoon  soda,  season  with  lemon.  Mix  soft,  roll 
thin,  sift  over  with  granulated  sugar.  Bake  quickly. — Mrs. 
W.  R.  Hall,  Manistee,  Mich. 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  IJBRARY  ASSOCIATION  121 


122  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


CROQUETTES 


CROQUETTES. 

To  one  pound  finely  chopped  cold  meat  add  one  small  onion, 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  more  than  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one 
cup  of  gravy  or  water.  Let  cook  till  thick.  Put  away  till 
cold.  Form  into  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs.  Fry  in 
plenty  of  hot  grease.  Especially  good  for  cold  mutton — Mrs. 
Thomas  Haddock,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BEEF  AND  RICE  CROQUETTES. 

Two  cups  finely  chopped  meat,  two  cups  fresh  boiled  rice, 
salt,  pepper,  onion  juice,  a  little  nutmeg  and  chopped  parsley. 
Add  the  rice  to  the  meat,  put  in  seasoning,  shape  into  cro- 
quettes, dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in 
hot  lard. — Mrs.  William  Hayward,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

CHICKEN    CROQUETTES. 

One  pint  of  chicken  chopped  fine,  mix  with  a  sauce  made 
as  follows :  Three  tablespoons  flour,  three  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  one  tablespoon  parsley,  one-half  tablespoons  onion 
juice,  a  little  black  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  well  together  one 
cup  warm  chicken  broth  and  one-half  cup  of  milk,  cook  until 
smooth.  Let  this  cool,  and  then  mix  with  chicken.  Shape 
this  into  croquettes — a  tablespoon  of  this  mixture  makes  one 
croquette.  Let  stand  awhile,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  then  into 
dry  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Dry  on 
paper  and  serve  hot. — Miss  Berth  Peet,  Monticello,  Ind. 

CHICKEN    CROQUETTES. 

Boil  one  good  sized  chicken  until  tender,  when  cold  take 
all  the  meat  from  bones  and  chop  or  grind  it  with  one  can  of 
mushrooms.  Soak  one-half  pound  of  bread  crumbs  in.  one 
and  one-half  pint  of  the  chicken  broth.  Add  one-fourth 
pound  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  onion  and  four  eggs 
mix  all  together  and  cook.  Season  with  celery  seed,  salt 
•and  pepper  and  chopped  parsley.  When  cool  shape  the  cro- 
quettes into  pears  with  a  whole  clove  for  the  stem  (added 
after  cooking)  and  drop  into  boiling  lard  enough  to  cover 
them.  A  small  piece  of  fresh  lean  boiled  pork  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  mushrooms  or  one  cup  of  sweetbreads. — Mrs. 
K.  W.  Williams,  Cynthiana,  Ky. 


124  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

FISH  CKOQUETTJES. 

One  pint  cold  boiled  fish,  free  from  skin  and  bone  and 
minced  fine,  one  pint  hot  mashed  potato,  one  tablespoon ful 
butter,  one-half  cup  hot  milk,  one  egg  well  beaten,  pepper 
and  salt  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
let  cool.  When  cold  make  into  balls,  dip  into  a  beaten  egg, 
roll  in  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  lard. — Contributed,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

MEAT  CROQUETTES. 

Run  any  kind  of  cold  meat  through  meat  grinder,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  mix  with  a  beaten  egg  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  roll  in  cracker  meal  and  fry  in  hot 
lard. — Mrs.  A.  Lebsch,  Williams,  Ariz. 

POTATO    CROQUETTES. 

'Mash  boiled  potatoes  for  croquettes,  and  one  tablespoon 
butter,  two  tablesoons  milk,  salt  and  pepper  and  the  beaten 
yolk  of  one  egg.  Stir  well,  shape  into  long  thin  rolls,  dip  in 
egg  and  cracker  crums  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve  hot  on  a 
platter  with  a  border  af  creamed  peas. — Contributed. 

SWEET  POTATO   CROQUETTES. 

Three  cups  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  two  eggs,  butter  size 
of  egg,  little  milk,  salt  to  suit  taste.  When  cold  mold  into  balls. 
Roll  in  egg  and  cracker  dust  fry  in  deep  lard  as  for  dough- 
nuts.— Mrs.  John  Juhl,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SALMON   CROQUETTES. 

Mix  half  can  salmon  with  one  cup  mashed  potatoes.     Beat 
one  egg,  salt,  paprika  to  taste.     Mix  well  and  mold  into  cro- 
quettes.    Roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs.     Fry  in  deep  fat.— 
Mrs.  Wm.  Haywarcl,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

SALMON   CROQUETTES. 

• 

Drain  one  can  of  salmon  and  pour  over  hot  water  to  remove 
as  much  of  the  oil  as  possible,  then  dry  on  a  piece  of  cheese- 
cloth;  separate  into  flakes.  There  should  be  one  and  three- 
fourths  cupfuls.  Add  one  cupful  of  thick  white  sauce,  using 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-third  cupful  of  flour  and 
one  cupful  of  milk.  Season  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  lemon  juice,  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
few  grains  of  cayenne.  Shape,  crumb  and  fry  the  same  as  other 
croquettes. 


WIIvUAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  125 

FRENCH  POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Prepare  and  cook  potatoes  same  as  for  potato  croquettes.  To 
two  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  add  one  tablespoon ful  of 
butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one-third  of  a  cupful  of 
grated  cheese,  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-eighth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg  and  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Beat  thoroughly,  shape  in  balls,  then  in 
rolls,  pointed  at  ends.  Roll  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs,  mark  in 
three  places  on  top  of  each  with  knife-blade  to  represent  a  small 
French  loaf.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 


126  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


DESSERTS 


"An't  please  your  honor,"  quoth  the  peasant, 
"This  same  desert  is  very  pleasant." 

— Mrs.  Ne  Ni  Bean. 

AMBROSIA. 

.Whites  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  gelatine,  one  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  few  drops  bitter  almond, 
one-half  cup  almonds  or  walnuts.  Mix  gelatine  and  water 
and  cook  until  gelatine  is  dissolved,  stirring  constantly,  add 
this  to  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  mix  well,  add  sugar 
and  flavoring.  Color  a  little  of  this  mixture  a  delicate  pink  and 
pour  alternately  pink  and  white  into  a  deep,  square  or  oblong 
pan  lined  with  moistened  parrafine  paper  and  nuts.  When  cold 
and  well  moulded,  cut  in  slices  about  an  inch  thick  and  serve 
with  sliced  fruit  or  canned  pineapple  and  whipped  cream. — Miss 
Catharine  Wells,  Glendale,  Calif. 

IMPERIAL  APPLES. 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  and  one 
and  one-half  cups  water,  eight  minutes.  Wipe,  core  and  pare 
eight  apples.  Cook  apples  in  syrup  until  soft,  occasionaly 
skimming  syrup.  Drain  apples  from  syrup,  cool,  arrange  on 
serving  dishes,  fill  cavities  with  jelly,  marmalade  or  pressed 
fruit,  stick  apples  with  blanched  almonds  split  in  half,  and  gar- 
nish with  whipped  cream,  sxveetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 
— Mrs.  George  Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

APPLE  SNOW. 

Take  a  pint  of  stewed  apples  and  press  through  a  colander, 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  the  whole* 
well  together.  Sweeten  to  taste. — Miss  Katharine  Anderson, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

APPLE  SNOW. 

Peel  and  grate  one  large  sour  apple,  sprinkle  over  it  one  cup 
of  powdered  sugar  as  you  grate  it  to  keep  it  from  turning 
dark,  break  into  this  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  beat  it  all  for 
twenty  minutes,  place  in  large  bowl  as  it  beats  up  very  stiff  and 
light.  Heap  this  in  a  glass  dish,  and  pour  a  fine,  smooth  custard 
around  it. — Mrs.  W.  W.  Bass,  Grand  Canyon,  Ariz. 


128  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

APPLE  SNOW. 

Peel  and  grate  one  large  sour  apple,  sprinkle  over  it  a  small 
cupful  of  powdered  sugar  as  you  grate  it,  to  keep  from  turning 
dark ;  break  into  this  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  all  constantly 
for  half  hour.  Heap  this  in  a  large  glass  dish  and  pour  custard 
around  it  and  serve.  Use  yolks  of  eggs  for  custard. — Miss 
Watson,  Bay  City,  Mich. 

BLANC  MANGE. 

Put  milk  to  boil  in  double  boiler,  add  sugar,  grated  orange 
rind,  a  few  bitter  almonds ;  when  boiled,  strain  into  a  saucepan, 
boil  up  again,  then  thicken  with  cornstarch,  pour  into  molds, 
the  bottoms  and  sides  of  which  may  be  decorated  with  crystal- 
ized  fruits.  After  the  blanc  mange  is  made,  it  may  be  moulded 
into  ribbon  cream  by  separating  it  into  four  vessels,  coloring 
one  green,  and  flavoring  it  with  pistachios,  another  red,  with 
rose  flavor,  another  with  some  boiled  chocolate.  When  filling 
the  molds,  the  white  is  placed  so  that  it  will  be  first  when 
finished  and  the  chocolate  last. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE    BLANC   MANGE. 

Put  in  double  boiler,  two  cupfuls  rich  sweet  milk,  one  cupful 
sugar.  When  quite  hot  add  one-half  box  gelatine  soaked  in 
cupful  water,  one  cupful  grated  chocolate,  rubbed  smooth  with 
milk.  Cook  until  quite  thick.  Remove  from  fire,  when  nearly 
cold  beat  into  this  the  whipped  whites  of  three  eggs;  add  va- 
nilla. Mold  in  large  or  individual  molds  and  garnish.  This 
should  be  served  cold  with  any  pudding  sauce,  or  just  cream  and 
sugar. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BAKED    BANANAS.. 

Remove  bananas  from  skin,  lay  in  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle 
with  granulated  sugar  and  pour  a  little  cold  water  in  the  dish, 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  tender.  Serve  for  breakfast  or  with 
lemon  sauce  for  dessert. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Richardson,  Leighton, 
Iowa. 

BANANA  SNOW. 

Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water 
for  half  an  hour,  then  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  add 
a  heaping  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Stir  well  together,  strain  into  a  large  bowl  where  it  will  cool 
quickly.  When  cold  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs. 
Beat  all  together  until  stiff.  Have  eight  bananas  sliced,  stir 
into  the  snow.  Put  into  molds  to  cool  and  do  not  stir  much 
after  bananas  are  in. — Mrs.  William  Wente,  Manistee,  Mich. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  129 

BAKED    BANANAS. 

One-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  corn  starch,  one-half 
cup  lemon  juice,  one- fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  boiling 
water,  six  bananas.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  water  and  boil 
until  smooth,  add  lemon  juice.  Cut  bananas  in  quarters,  butter 
baking  dish,  put  in  layer  of  bananas,  cover  with  sauce.  Con- 
tinue until  all  is  used.  Cover  top  with  a  thin  layer  of  well  but- 
tered crumbs,  bake  until  brown.  Delicious  served  with  roast 
mutton. — Mrs.  George  E.  Krimbill,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

(Recipe  demonstrated  at  the  Rock  River  Chautauqua  Do- 
mestic Science  School,  Dixon,  Illinois,  August,  1909.) 

BANANA  FRITTERS. 

Three  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  pint  milk,  pinch  of  salt, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  roll  out  same  as 
for  cookies.  Cut  a  banana  in  two  lengthwise,  roll  dough  around 
banana,'  pinch  down  good  at  the  ends  to  hold  in  place,  fry  in 
deep  hot  fat,  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Served  with  a  clear  sauce. 
Flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  George  Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

APPLE  CREAM. 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  grate  one  good- 
sized  apple,  add  one  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  all  together  twenty 
minutes. — Miss  Carrie  M.  Shoff,  Maine,  Ariz. 

APPLE  CREAM    (SOUR). 

Pulp  of  three  baked  apples,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  pul- 
verized sugar.  Beat  one  solid  hour. — Mrs.  G.  A.  Cole,  Middle- 
town,  Conn. 

BARBERRY  CREAM. 

One  can  grated  pineapple,  one  cupful  sugar,  stir  in  one-half 
package  dissolved  gelatine.  Set  on  ice  to  cool,  then  stir  in  one 
pint  whipped  cream.  Let  cool  and  mould. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Gibson, 
Santa  Fe  System. 

ORANGE  CREAM. 

Whip  a  pint  of  cream  until  one-half  the  quantity  is  left  when 
skimmed  off.  Soak  in  half  cup  cold  water  ,half  package  gela- 
tine; grate  over  it  rind  of  two  oranges.  Strain  juice  of  six 
oranges,  add  a  cupful  sugar;  now  put  half  a  pint  of 
cream  in  double  boiler,  pour  into  it  well  beaten  yolks  of  six 
eggs.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  gelatine,  remove 
from  fire,  let  stand  two  minutes,  then  add  juice  and  sugar;  beat 
all  together  until  about  the  consistency  of  soft  custard,  and  add 
the  whipped  cream.  Mix  well  and  turn  into  moulds  to  harden. 
To  be  served  with  sweetened  cream.  This  is  fine. — Mrs.  James 
Kennedy,  Williams,  Ariz. 


130  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

HUNGARIAN   CREAM. 

Six  oranges,  two  lemons,  six  or  eight  eggs  (according  to 
price),  one  large  cup  sugar,  squeeze  juice  of  oranges  and 
lemons  and  grate  a  bit  of  rind  of  each  to  the  juice  add  your 
sugar,  then  the  yolks  of  eggs  (well  beaten).  Place  all  in  a 
double  boiler  till  it  is  a  fine  velvety  paste,  well  done.  Have 
your  whites  beaten  very  stiff  and  remove  the  paste  from  fire, 
beat  in  the  whites  gradually  and  steadily  till  all  are  thoroughly 
mixed.  Serve  in  individual  punch  or  other  moulds. — Miss 
Florence  Parker,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

MARSHMALLOW    CREAM. 

One  rounded  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine,  four  egg  whites, 
one  cup  cold  water,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
extract,  almond,  vanilla  or  any  kind,  one  teacup,  more  or  less, 
of  pecan  nut  meats  coarsely  chopped.  Dissolve,  the  gelatine  in 
one-half  cup  of  cold  water,  stirring  over  the  fire  till  perfectly 
smooth,  add  the  other  one-half  cup  cold  water  and  let  cool. 
Beat  whites  very  light  (with  pinch  of  salt)  and  gradually  add 
dissolved  gelatine,  beating  constantly,  sprinkle  in  the  sugar 
(continuing  to  beat),  add  extract,  beating  all  the  time.  Take 
one-third  of  the  mixture,  color  a  delicate  pink  with  fluid 
that  comes  for  the  purpose.  Spread  in  a  deep  dish  and  sprinkle 
with  nut  meats,  add  a  second,  one-third,  and  sprinkle  on  more 
meats,  then  the  remainder,  and  add,  decorating  with  care,  dried 
cherries.  Put  in  refrigerator  to  stiffen.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  or  a  delicate  custard.  The  flavoring,  nuts  and  decora- 
tion may  be  varied  to  suit  the  taste,  preserves  or  jelly  may  be 
used  instead  of  nuts. — Mrs.  \Yatts  S.  Humphrey,  Saginaw, 
Mich. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 

One  pint  milk,  add  two  and  orie-half  tablespoons  gela- 
tine, let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  heat  in  double  boiler,  stirring  to 
keep  gelatine  from  the  bottom,  add  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  yolks 
of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  stir  until  creamy  like  thin  custard, 
pour  it  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  beating 
lightly,  and  add  vanilla  flavoring.  When  cool  stand  in  ice  box 
until  next  day.  Nice  plain  or  with  whipped  cream  or  fruit  when 
served. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Hudson,  \Yilliams,  Ariz. 

SPONGE    CREAM. 

Let  two  cups  sweet  milk  in  a  double  boiler  come  to  a  good 
scald,  add  the  yolks  of  four  well  beaten  eggs,  one-half  cup 
granulated  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  then  two  tablespoons  gelatine 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  131 

thoroughly  dissolved  in  a  little  sweet  milk  and  boil  until  it 
thickens.  To  this  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  sea- 
son with  vanilla,  rose  or  almond  to  taste.  Put  in  mould,  set  on 
ice  five  or  six  hours.  Serve  on  dish  garnished  with  berries,  and 
alternate  with  whipped  cream,  or  serve  with  sweetened  whipped 
cream. — Miss  Esther  Hanson,  Hartford,  Conn. 

STRAWBERRY   CREAM. 

Stir  one  cup  clear  strawberry  juice  into  one  pint  thick  cream, 
add  one  cup  sugar  and  whip  till  stiff,  then  add  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  beat  till  very  stiff.  Garnish  with  large  whole  ber- 
ries.— Miss  Safronibelle  Campbell,  Williams,  Ariz. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  soaked  in  one  cup  of  water 
over  night,  add  one  quart  of  milk,  boil  twenty  minutes,  beat 
yolks  of  three  eggs  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla, 
beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  pour  the  custard  over  them. — Mrs. 
Geo.  A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn: 

CREAM  CARAMEL. 

For  Custard :  One  quart  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  four  eggs, 
one  spoonful  flour.  Place  milk  in  double  boiler  with 
pinch  of  salt,  break  eggs,  separating  the  yolks  from 
the  .whites,  beat  yolks  well,  adding  gradually  the 
sugar  and  flour,  add  slowly  to  boiling  milk,  till  all  is  of  a  vel- 
vety contingency,  add  vanilla  or  any  other  flavor  excepting 
lemon.  Beat  your  whites  very  stiff,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
add  a  little  sugar,  place  on  the  custard  in  small  moulds.  Cara- 
mel : — Brown  one-half  cup  sugar,  being  careful  not  to  let  it 
burn,  pour  over  the  whites,  and  allow  a  little  to  slip  in  the  cus- 
tard. Fine. — Miss  Florence  Parker,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
i 

ITALIAN   CREAM. 

One-half  box  gelatine,  soak  in  water  enough  to  cover  till 
dissolved.  Put  in  double  boiler  one  quart  sweet  milk,  heat; 
to  this  add  one  cup  sugar  beaten  with  yolks  of  four  eggs.  To 
this  add  gelatine  and  cook  in  the  boiling  milk  for  five  minutes. 
Take  from  the  stove,  add  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Put  in  a 
bar  tin  to  mold.  Slice  when  cold  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 
— Mrs.  Pierson,  Manistee,  Mich. 

BAKED  CUSTARD. 

Four  cups  milk,  four  to  six  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  salt,  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Method  : — Beat  the 


132  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

eggs  slightly,  add  sugar  and  salt,  then  slowly  add  the  scalded 
milk.  Pour  into  cups  (about  six)  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg 
over  the  top.  Set  the  cups  into  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (about  thirty  minutes)  until  a  knife  when  thrust 
in  comes  out  clean.  Do  not  let  water  in  pan  boil.  Serve  in  cups 
when  cold  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Richardson, 
Leightn,  Iowa. 

BOILED    CUSTARD. 

Two  cups  scalded  milk,  three  yolks  of  eggs,  one-half  tea- 
spoon vanilla  (or  desired  amount  of  fresh  fruit). — Mrs.  W.  A. 
Richardson,  Leighton,  Iowa. 

BAKED   CHOCOLATE   CUSTARD. 

One  pint  milk,  two  tablespoons  flour,  four  tablespoons  sugar, 
two  squares  unsweetened  chocolate.  Flavor  with  vanilla  when 
cold.  Serve  with  sweetened  and  flavored  whipped  cream.— 
Mrs.  T.  A.  Riordan,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

FREXCH   COCOANUT   CUSTARD. 

One  quart  milk,  eight  tablespoons  cornstarch,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  two-thirds  cup  cocoanut, 
one  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  one  tablespoon  butter.  Put  the 
milk  and  cocoanut  in  a  double  boiler  to  heat.  Beat  yolks  and 
sugar.  When  milk  is  hot  moisten  the  cornstarch  with  a  little 
cold  milk,  and  stir  in,  cook  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  egg  and 
sugar  and  salt  and  cook  a  few  minutes  longer.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  add  butter  and  flavoring.  Put  in  moulds  and  spread 
with  a  meringue,  made  with  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  eight 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar.  Bake  in  a  pan  of  water  fifteen 
minutes. — Miss  Jephena  Perkins,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

DELICIOUS  CUSTARD. 

Heat  one  pint  of  milk,  brown  one  cup  of  sugar  and  add  to  the 
milk,  add  one  pint  of  cold  milk  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  and  put  on  top. 
—Mrs.  George  A.  Coles,  Middletown,  Conn. 

MAPLE    CUSTARD. 

One-half  pint  milk,  one  tablespoon  sweet  cream,  one  egg,  one 
tablespoon  maple  syrup.  Prepared  and  serve  same  as  plain  cus- 
tard.— Mrs.  T.  A.  Riordan,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CARAMEL   CUSTARD. 

Melt  one-half  cup  sugar,  without  adding  water.  Make  a 
custard  of  four  eggs,  one-third  teaspoon  salt,  four  tablespoons 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  133 

sugar,  one  pint  of  rich  milk.  Beat  together  the  eggs,  sugar  and 
salt  and  pour  over  this  the  scalded  milk.  Add  the  syrup.  Pour 
into  moulds  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  water.  When  a  knife  comes 
out  clear  from  the  custard  it  is  done. — Miss  Jephena  Perkins, 
Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CARAMEL    CUSTARD. 

Ingredients : — One-half  scant  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
water,  two  cups  milk,  three  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one 
teaspoon  vanilla*.  Method : — Put  sugar  in  a  granite  sauce  pan 
and  stir  until  it  melts  and  is  light  brown;  add  the  water  and 
slowly  add  to  warm  milk,  being  careful  that  milk  does  not  bub- 
ble over,  as  is  liable  on  account  of  high  temperature  of  sugar. 
Beat  the  eggs  slightly  and  gradually  add  the  mixture  to  the 
eggs ;  add  salt  and  flavoring  and  strain  in  a  buttered  mold.  Serve 
cold  with 

SAUCE  EOH  CUSTARD. 

One-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  boiling  \vater  and  simmer 
ten  minutes.  Chill  before  serving. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Richardson, 
Leighton,  la. 

PLAIN   CUSTARD. 

One  egg,  one-half  pint  milk,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  as 
much,  flour  as  desired.  Heat  milk  and  sugar  and  pour  gradu- 
ally on  the  beaten  yolk  of  the  egg.  Pour  into  custard  cups, 
place  cups  in  pan  of  boiling  water  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  or 
until  it  sets.  It  may  be  served  with  the  beaten  white  of  the 
egg  or  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  T.  A.  Riordan,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

BAKED  PEACH  DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  paste  as  for  peach  shortcake,  and  cut  into  squares  of 
five  inches,  lay  in  center  of  each  a  whole  peach  which  has  been 
peeled  and  the  stone  removed  and  the  center  filled  with  sugar 
and  one  whole  clove,  pinch  the  edges  of  the  dough  togther  and 
lay  close  in  a  baking  tin  with  the  smooth  side  uppermost.  Pour 
over  a  gill  of  water  and  bake  covered  until  the  crust  is  done. 
Uncover  and  brown.  Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Smith, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

FRUIT  DUMPLINGS. 

One  large  cupful  flour,  one  large  tablespoonful  cottolene, 
one  pinch  salt,  one  teaspoonftil  baking  powder,  milk  enough  to 
make  it  about  as  stiff  as  biscuit  dough.  Put  about  two  inches  of 
boiling  water  in  your  baking  dish ;  one  cupful  sugar,  one-third 


134  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

cup  butter,  a  little  nutmeg ;  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Roll 
dough  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  each  dumpling 
the  size  of  a  tea  plate.  Into  this  put  sliced  apples  (or  any  fruit 
or  berries)  seasoned  with  .sugar,  butter  and  nutmeg.  Dampen 
the  edges  and  pinch  together  into  a  dumpling.  Place  these — 
about  six — in  the  pan  of  hot  syrup,  and  bake  moderately  slow, 
basting  the  tops  occasionally. — Mrs.  Martin  Buggeln,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Pare  and  core  six  good  sized  tart  apples,  filling  open  part  with 
butter  and  sugar.  Have  ready  a  nice  light  biscuit  crust.  Cut  in 
circle  large  enough  to  cover  apple  when  pinched  together  at  the 
top.  Put  dumplings  in  a  little  water  and  butter  in  the  baking 
pan  and  bake  forty  minutes ;  or,  steam  these  dumplings  one  and 
one-half  to  two  hours.  Berries  make  a  good  substitute.  Sauce  : 
One  cupful  water  in  the  double  boiler,  one-half  cupful  white 
sugar,  one-half  cupful  brown  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two 
teaspoonfuls  cornstarch,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  nfttmeg 
to  taste.  Cook  mixture  until  it  thickens.  Serve  hot.  If 
berries  are  used  in  the  dumplings,  mash  and  sweeten  some  for 
the  sauce,  omitting  vanilla. — Mrs.  Dermout,  Williams,  Ariz. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  as  for  pie,  peel  two  good 
sized  cooking  apples,  slice  thin,  place  them  in  the  crust  with 
one-half  cup  sugar  and  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  a  little  nutmeg 
if  desired.  Pinch  the  crust  up  around  the  apples  and  place  in 
a  round  pan.  Around  the  dumpling  add  one-half  cup  sugar 
and  boiling  water  to  half  fill  the  pan.  Bake  one-half  hour. — 
Mrs.  J.  S.  Folsom,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

A  DELICIOUS  DESSERT. 

Whip  one  pint  of  cream  very  stiff,  sweeten  with  confection- 
ers sugar,  set  away  to  chill,  chop  fine  large  banana,  one  orange, 
one-half  cup  fine  apple,,  twelve  large  marshmallows,  one-half 
cup  nuts,  beat  all  together  in  the  cream  just  before  serving. 
Serve  in  sherbet  cups  with  cherry  on  top. — Mrs.  Geo.  Bar- 
ney, Williams,  Ariz. 

ELIZABETH   DESSERT. 

Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
sugar,  and  whip  till  it  stands  alone.  Then  slice  twelve  plums 
on  top  and  serve.  In  winter  prunes  may  be  used  instead  of 
plums. — Contributed. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  135 

A  SIMPLE  DESSERT. 

Take  six  apples,  peel  and  core,  put  in  a  rather  sh,allo\v  baking 
pan  with  one  one-half  cups  of  water,  one-half  cup  of  sugar  (or 
more  according  to  tartness  of  apples)  well  scattered  over  them, 
also  a  generous  sprinkling  of  nutmeg,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice.  Sake  in  a  moderate  oven  one-half  hour.  When  done 
fill  cavity  with  boiled  rice  and  top  with  a  spoonful  of  jelly. — 
Miss  Nanna  Morrell,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

NETTIE'S  DESSERT. 

White  Part :  One  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  half  cup  of 
granulated  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  three  tablespoons  of  corn- 
starch.  Dissolve  the  starch  in  water  and  then  stir  the  starch 
into  the  boiling  water,  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  take  off  the  stove  and  set  away  to  cool. 

Yellow  Part :  One  quart  of  milk,  boiling  or  not,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  three  teaspoons  of  cornstarch,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla,  take  off  and  cool,  turn  into  the 
white  part,  drop  jelly  on  top  of  this. — Mrs.  Patrick  Johnson, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

STRAWBERRY    FLUFF. 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter  and  one  cup  sugar,  add  two-thirds 
cup  sweet  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  tablespoon 
baking  powder.  Mix  and  add  one  and  one-half  cups  fresh 
crushed  strawberries.  Pour  into  pudding  moulds  and  steam  half 
hour.  Serve  cold  or  hot  with  this  sauce :  Three-fourths  cup  butter 
and  pulverized  sugar  beaten  to  cream,  add  one-half  cup  boil- 
ing water  and  cup  lightly  crushed  strawberries. — Mrs.  W.  Pat- 
terson, Williams,  Ariz. 

RASPBERRY    FLUMMERY. 

Put  one  cup  of  red  raspberries,  one  cup  of  water  over  the 
fire,  when  hot  stir  in  one-half  cup  tapioca,  cover  and  let  cook 
until  tapioca  is  transparent,  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and 
fold  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  dry.  Serve  with  whip- 
ped cream  and  nuts  on  top. — Mrs.  George  Barney,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

PEACH  FRAPPE. 

Put  one  quart  of  very  ripe  peaches  through  a  wire  sieve,  add 
two  cups  of  sugar,  one  quart  water,  one  quart  whipped  cream. 
This  will  serve  eighteen  people.  Canned  peaches  may  be  used. 
If  fresh  peaches  are  used,  only  one  pint  of  water — hot — is  need- 
ed and  dissolve  the  sugar  in  it. — Mrs.  Earl  Nordyke,  Santa 
Fe  System,  Williams,  Ariz. 


136  THE  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 

FRUIT  JELLO. 

Dissolve  one  package  of  raspberry  Jello  in  one  pint  of  hot 
water,  when  half  set  stir  in  one-half  medium  sized  pineapple 
grated  and  two  bananas  (or  any  other  fruit).  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Collett,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

LEMOX    OVAL. 

Dissolve  two  packages  of  Lemon  Jell-O  in  a  quart  of  boiling 
water.  Pour  half  of  the  Jell-O  into  an  oval  dish  or  mould. 
When  cool  lay  in  it  peaches,  bananas  and  seeded  grapes.  When 
set,  add  the  remainder  of  the  Jell-O  and  more  fruit,  and  put 
away  until  firm.  Serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. — Con- 
tributed. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Prepare  mold  or  individual  moulds  with  lining  of  lady  fingers 
or  slices  sponge  cake,  lightly  fastening  same  together  with  little 
white  of  an  egg.  Put  in  double  boiler,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  one  tablespoonful  dissolved  gelatine 
six  beaten  eggs.  Thicken  as  for  boiled  custard.  When  filling 
is  nearly  cold  add  nearly  one  quart  whipped  cream.  Put  in 
mold  and  before  serving  dress  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  M. 
S.  Carpenter,  Hackensack,  N.  J. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Line  individual  glasses  or  molds  with  lady  fingers,  or  cut 
sponge  cake  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick,  and  as  narrow 
and  long  as  desired.  Make  a  filling  in  double  boiler,  one  tea- 
cup sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  soaked  gelatine,  sugar  to 
taste,  vanilla  or  any  preferred  flavor.  When  thick  enough  take 
off  the  fire  and  partially  cool,  add  gradually  two  cupfuls 
rich  whipped  cream.  Put  in  moulds  before  thoroughly  cold. 
Set  away  until  ready  to  serve.  Before  serving  put  pretty  mound 
of  whipped  cream  on  the  top  of  each  dish,  with  ripe  stawberry 
or  cherry  on  top. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

One-quarter  box  gelatine,  one-quarter  cup  cold  water,  one 
pint  cream,  one  dozen  lady  fingers,  one-third  cup  bar  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  vanilla,  one  tablespoon  wine,  one-quarter  cup  boiling 
water.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  till  softened,  chill  the 
cream,  line  three  pint  moulds  with  lady  fingers,  or  narrow 
slices  of  sponge  cake  with  crust  side  out.  Leave  a  little  space 
between  the  slices  and  have  the  cake  even  at  the  top,  whip  the 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  137 

cream  and  skim  off  into  a  granate  pan,  set  in  ice  water,  sift  the 
sugar  over  the  whipped  cream,  add  vanilla  and  wine.  Dissolve 
gelatine  in  the  boiling  water  and  strain  through  fine  strainer 
over  the  whipped  cream.  Then  stir  (not  beat)  rapidly  with 
bowl  of  spoon  resting  on  bottom  of  pan.  Turn  the  pan  with 
the  left  hand  while  stirring  with  the  right,  then  if  it  feels  lumpy 
lift  the  pan  from  the  ice  and  place  in  warm  water  to  melt  the 
gelatine.  Stir  till  the  gelatine  is  well  mixed  with  the  cream, 
and  when  nearly  stiff  enough  to  drop,  turn  into  the  mould.  Keep 
on  ice  and  when  ready  to  serve  turn  out  and  garnish  the  tops 
with  jelly. — Boston  School  Cook  Book. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Bake  an  Angel  Food  Cake  in  a  border  mold,  and  fill  the  cen- 
ter with  the  following  charlotte  russe  mixture:  Whip  two 
cups  of  cream,  add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  flavoring,  pour 
in  one-quarter  of  a  box  of  gelatine  that  has  been  dissolved  in 
one  cup  of  hot  water  after  standing  in  one  cup  of  cold  water  for 
an  hour.  An  almond  paste  is  fine  when  added  to  the  custard.— 
Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Cynthiana,  Ky. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Make  rich  individual  baking  powder  biscuit.  Open  and  but- 
ter when  quite  warm — not  hot — spread  crushed  strawberries 
between  and  on  the  top  of  each.  Cover  each  with  whipped 
cream,  and  garnish  top  with  pretty  ripe  berries  with  their 
hulls.  Serve  little  warm.  If  desired,  bake  biscuit  in  two  pans 
making  one  shortcake.  Garnish  as  above. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Der- 
mout,  Williams,  Ariz. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

One  pint  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, two  tablespoons  sugar.  Mix  well  together  and  rub  into  it 
three  tablespoons  butter,  three-quarter  cup  sweet  milk.  Bake 
in  two  pie  tins. — Miss  Emma  E.  Arnold,  Manistee,  Mich. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  Z  salt,  <  wo 
7  baking  powder,  add  a  little  flour  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Then 
stir  en  enough  flour  to  roll,  and  cut  in  small  individual  cakes, 
not  very  thick.  When  done  open  and  spread  butter  and  place 
fruit  between  and  on  top  th»/  white  of  an  egg.  Bake  in  hot 
oven. — Mrs.  A.  S.  Lebach,  Williams,  Ariz. 

STRAWBERRY  SPONGE. 

Fill  sherbet  glasses  with  lady  fingers,  and  rich  pressed  straw- 


138  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

berries,  and  place  sweetened  whipped  cream  on  top. — Manistee 
Public  School,  Mich. 

CUSTARD  SOUFFLE. 

Ingredients:  Two  scant  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two  scant 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  two  tablesponfuls  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  lour 
eggs.  Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil,  beat  flour  and  butter  together, 
add  to  them  gradually  the  boiling  milk  and  co  )k  eight  rmnutes, 
stirring  often.  Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  oi:  eggs  together,  add 
this  to  the  cooked  mixture  and  set  away  to  cool*  When  cool 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  mix- 
ture. Bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  slowly  for  about  twenty 
five-minutes.  Serve  immediately. 

Sauce  for   Same. 

Ingredients:  One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  powdered  sngsr, 
one-half  cup  cream  or  milk,  flavoring  to  suit.  i>eat  the  butter 
toa  cream,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  beating  all  the  while,  add 
the  flavoring  and  the  cream.  When  beaten  to  a  cmooth  paste 
place  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of  hoc  water  and  stir  until  sauce  is 
smooth  and  creamy  (no  longer). — Mrs.  J.  O.  Dodge,  Los  An- 
geles, Calif. 

PEACHES  AND   CREAM. 

Serve  halved  peeled  peaches  with  whipped  cream  flavored 
with  lemon,  ground  almonds  sprinkled  over  top. — Mrs.  Geo. 
Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

One  cup  hot  water,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  flour,  three 
eggs.  Add  butter  to  water  when  boiling,  add  flour  beating 
to  a  smooth  paste.  When  cold  add  eggs,  beating  hard  each 
time.  Drop  in  pan  in  spoonfuls  far  enough  apart  to  allow  for 
puffing  and  bake  in  ouick  oven.  Whe-i  cold  split  on  side  and 
fill  with  cream  filling. 

Cream  Filling:  Two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  flour  mixed 
with  cold  water  and  pint  milk  and  three  tablespoons  sugar. 
When  milk  and  sugar  boil  add  eggs  and  flour  to  thicken. 
Flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  Eva  Morris,  Cliffs,  Ariz. 

CREAM  FrLLJ\TG. 

Put  in  a  sauce  pan  two  cupfuls  of  water  (warm)  one  half 
pound  of  butter,  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  slow  boil,  add  gradu- 
ally, stirring  all  the  time  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sifted 
flour  and  cook  one  minute,  beat  perfectly  smooth  and  turn 
into  a  deep  dish  to  cool,  have  ready  six  eggs  whites  and  yolks 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  139 

beaten  separately  and  whipped  into  the  cool  parts,  adding  the 
whites  last.  Drop  one  large  spoonful  on  buttered  paper  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  ten  minutes  until  a  golden  brown. — Mrs. 
F.  Beckwith,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

One  cup  hot  water,  one  cup  sifted  flour,  one-quarter  cup 
butter,  four  eggs.  Put  the  water  and  butter  in  a  sauce  pan 
over  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  add  all  the  flour  at  once  and 
stir  quickly  over  the  fire  until  it  forms  a  ball  which  leaves 
the  pan.  Set  aside  until  partly  cool  then  add  one  egg  at  a 
time  until  all  are  used.  Then  heat  vigorously  for  about  five 
minutes.  Drop  teaspoonfuls  on  a  buttered  tin  about  two 
inches  apart.  Bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven  twenty-five  or 
thirty  minutes.  In  the  baking  lies  the  success.  If  removed 
before  done  they  will  fall.  Excellent. — Mrs.  P.  A.  Melick. 
Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

One  cup  boiling  water,  one  cup  flour,  two  ounces  butter, 
four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Have  water  in 
sauce  pan,  add  butter  and  when  boiling,  throw  in 
flour  and  stir  until  it  forms  a  smooth  paste.  When  cool 
break  the  eggs  into  the  mixture,  one  at  a  time,  beating  each 
one  thoroughly,  then  add  the  baking  powder  and  drop  in 
spoonfuls  on  baking  tins  some  distance  apart.  Bake  slowly 
about  forty-five  minutes,  or  until  the  cakes  feel  very  light. 
When  cold  remove  soft  inside  portion  and  will  with  a  cream 
made  as  follows:  One  quart  milk,  three  eggs,  sugar  to  taste, 
and  thicken  with  cornstarch.  Boil  to  the  consistency  of  a  thin 
custard,  and  when  cold  add  lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring. — Miss 
Dorothy  Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PINEAPPLE  SPONGE. 

Let  one  can  grated  pineapple  and  one  cupful  granulated 
sugar  stand  an  hour.  Then  add  white  of  one  egg  well  beaten, 
one-half  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  cup  boiling  water.  Beat  all  to- 
gether very  hard.  Put  in  a  mold  for  at  least  half  a  day,  or 
over  night  on  ice  would  prove  much  more  satisfactory. 
Serve  on  a  pudding  plate  surrounded  with  little  bunches  of 
whipped  cream  with  a  strawberry  on  red  cherry  on  each. 
Many  prefer  to  mold  and  serve  this  individually. — Mrs.  Der- 
mont,  Williams,  Ariz. 


140  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CUSTARD  SOUFFLE. 

Rub  two  scant  tablespoons  butter  to  a  cream,  add  two 
scant  tablespoons  flour,  poar  over  this  gradually  one  cup  hot 
rnilk  and  cook  eight  minutes  in  a  double  toiler,  stirring  con- 
stantly, beat  yolks  four  eggs,  add  twu  tablespoons  sugar. 
Stir  into  the  milk  and  set  away  to  cool.  Half  an  hour  be- 
fore serving  beat  whites  four  eggs  stiff,  adding  to  mixture. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty-six  minutes.  Serve  at  once. — 
Mrs.  L.  E.  Morris,  Manistee,  Mich. 

PRUNE  SOUFFLE. 

Make  one  pint  stewed  prune  pulp.  Dissolve  one  package 
Chocolate  Jell-O  in  one  pint  boiling  water.  When  it  begins 
to  thicken  add  the  prune  pulp  and  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
and  beat  into  it  one  cup  whipped  cream.  Pile  into  custard 
cups  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. — Contributed. 

PRUNE  SOUFFLE. 

Three-quarter  pounds  prunes,  four  tablespoons  fine  sugar, 
whites  four  eggs,  cook  prunes  and  strain  through  colander, 
add  sugar  and  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  slow  oven.  Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. — 
Miss  Watson,  Bay  City,  Mich. 

PRUNE  WHIP. 

Remove  the  stones  from  a  dozen  large  boiled  prunes,  chop 
prunes,  and  set  on  ice  until  very  cold.  Serve  in  chilled 
spoon  of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  in  gradually  the  choppel 
prunes  fine,  beat  one-half  pint  of  cream  stiff,  adding  a  table- 
giasses. — Miss  Bertha  J.  Feet,  Monticello,  Ind. 


DIET 


The  percentage  of  individuals  who  give  thought  to  their 
physical  and  mental  requirements  in  diet,  is  small  indeed. 

Although  the  human  system  can  be  sustained  through  long 
periods  of  physical,  and  mental  labor,  upon  a  few  articles 
of  food ;  in  order  to  thoroughly  satisfy  the  needs  "of  the  body, 
the  diet  must  be  varied. 

Occupation  should  govern  to  a  great  extent,  the  kind  and 
quantity  of  food  taken,  as  well  as  the  time  of  consumption. 

Diet  should  vary  somewhat  with  climatic,  or  season 
changes. 

Individuals  of  sedentary  occupation  should  confine  their 
diet  largely  to  the  vegetable  kingdom,  namely:  Cereals, 
Legumes.  Roots  and  Tubers,  Green  Vegetables.  Fruits,  Nuts, 
Fungi  and  Litchens.  Under  the  different  heads  we  have 
the  following: 

Cereals : — Barley,  buckwheat,  corn,  rye,  oats,  rice  and 
wheat. 

Legumes  : — Peas,  beans,  peanuts. 

Rools  and  Tubers : — Irish  Potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  yams, 
artichokes,  beets,  carrots,  parsnips,  turnips  and  radishes. 

Green  Vegetables : — Cabbage,  cauliflower,  spinach,  lettuce, 
sorrel,  celery,  tomatoes,  egg  plant,  cucumbers,  asparagus, 
rhubarb,  pumpkins,  squash,  onions  and  garlic. 

Fruits  and  Nuts : — A  great  variety. 

Fungi  and  Litchens : — Mushrooms,  truffle,  morel,  Iceland 
moss. 

Animal  food  should  also  be  included  in  the  daily  diet, 
sparingly  during  the  warm  summer  months,  and  increased 
slightly  during  the  cold  winter  months. 

Physical  laborers  require  a  liberal  diet  of  animal  food,  and 
should  also  partake  freely  of  vegetable  products. 

All  food  taken  should  be  thoroughly  masticated  to  insure 
saturation  with  saliva,  as  otherwise,  perfect  digestion  is  an 
impossibility. 

Animal  food  digests  more  rapidly  than  vegetable  food,  and 
where  necessary  may  be  taken  at  intervals  of  two  or  three 
hours,  in  small  quantity. 


142  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

Vegetable  food  requires  five  or  six  hours  for  thorough  di- 
gestion, and  should  not  be  taken  at  shorter  intervals. 

The   temperature   of   food   is   of   considerable   important 
The  ideal  temperature  is  that  of  the  body  98  degrees  Fahren- 
heit, the  limits  of  safety  being  45  degrees  and  130  degrees 
Fahrenheit. 

A  short  period  of  rest  after  meals  is  conducive  to  good 
digestion. 

P.  A.  Melick  M.  D. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  143 


THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  145 


146  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  147 


DOUGHNUTS 


DOUGHNUTS  OR  FRIED  CAKES. 

As  much  care  must  be  taken  in  the  mixing  as  in  the  cooking. 
In  Xorthern  Arizona  do  not  use  too  much  shortening  in  the 
dough,  and  mix  very  soft,  rolling  without  kneading.  Try  the 
boiling  fat,  in  which  they  are  to  be  cooked,  with  a  small  piece 
of  dough.  If  a  piece  of  raw  potato  is  put  into  the  boiling  fat 
it  will  prevent  browning  too  much  and  will  help  clarify  it. 
Two  tablespoonfuls  vinegar  added  to  the  lard  will  prevent  the 
cakes  absorbing  too  much  grease.  Some  cooks  add  one-half 
teaspoonful  ground  ginger  in  the  dough,  saying  that,  too,  will 
prevent  the  dough  absorbing  too  much  fat. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  one  Z  of  soda, 
one-half  Z  baking  powder,  two  eggs,  salt  and  nutmeg.  Fry 
in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  Albert  S.  Lebsch,  Williams,  Ariz. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  teacup  of  sugar,  one  spoonful  of  melted  lard, 
three  eggs  and  pinch  salt,  two  teacups  of  milk,  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  A  little  nutmeg  and  flour  to  roll. — Mrs. 
James  Dalton,  Williams,  Ariz. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two  eggs  one  and  one-half  cups  of  granulaed  sugar  and 
one  large  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved 
in  the  cream,  and  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  with  one 
sifter  of  flour,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  nutmeg.  Fry  and  dip 
in  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.  R.  S.  Teeple,  Holbrook,  Ariz. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  large  teaspoon  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three 
eggs  (beaten),  one  cup  buttermilk,  one-half  teaspoon  each  soda 
and  salt,  one-half  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  and 
flour  enough  to  roll  into  dough. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Cyn- 
thiana,  Ky. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  small  measuring  cup  sugar  put  in  coffee  cup,  fill  the  cup 
full  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  four  measuring 
cups  sifted  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  of 


WIUJAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  149 

salt,  two  scant  tablespoons  melted  butter  rubbed  in  flour  as 
for  pie  crust,  break  in  three  eggs  and  beat  hard.  Cut  out 
with  as  little  mixing  as  possible. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Wing,  Manis- 
tee,  Mich. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Add  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  four  eggs,  one  and 
one-half  cups  milk,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  add  flour 
until  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Roll  about  one-quarter  inches 
thick.  Fry  in  cottolene. — Mrs.  Emerson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  sugar,  three  tablespoons  butter,  three  eggs,  three  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda, 
nutmeg  to  taste. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Erne,  Williams,  Ariz. 

RAISED    DOUGHNUTS. 

One  pint  bread  sponge,  one  pint  warm  water,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  sugar,  one  pinch  of  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  lard.     Mix 
same  as  bread,  when  light  roll  out  and  cut  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
—Mrs.  M.  J.  Erne,  Williams,  Ariz. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mix,  by  sifting  two  or  three  times,  two  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls baking  powder  with  one  quart  flour,  beat  two  eggs  with 
one  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  adding  a  teacupful  of  new  milk,  and 
teaspoonful  melted  butter  if  milk  is  not  very  rich.  Flavor 
with  nutmeg.  Mix  all  together  and  fry  in  hot  lard  and  cot- 
tolene mixed. — Mrs.  Geo.  F.  Warren,  Kingman,  Ariz. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

In  the  mixing  bowl  put  one  cupful  granulated  sugar,  four 
eggs,  add  one  and  one-half  cup  fills  rich  sweet  milk.  Sift  flour 
and  use  three  cupfuls  flour  with  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  Pow- 
der sifted  three  times,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  salt,  one  table- 
spoonful  melted  butter.  Then,  if  necessary,  add  enough  flour 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  soft  without  kneading,  cut  any 
desired  shape  and  cook  in  hot  lard. — Miss  Charlotte  Wick- 
stram,  Hartford,  Conn. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls 
milk,  two  eggs,  about  one  tablespoonful  shortening,  if  cream  so 
much  better,  if  sour  milk  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  if  sweet- 
milk,  baking  powder,  nutmeg.  Beat  before  adding  two  and 
one-half  cupfuls  flour. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Wolfe,  Williams,  Ariz. 


150  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  sour  milk,  salt  and 
spices  to  taste,  flour  to  mix  stiff;  fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  An- 
nie Cameron,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs  creamed  together,  one  tablespoon 
sour  cream,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved 
in  table  spoon  of  boiling  water,  salt  and  nutmeg,  flour  to 
thicken  like  cream  biscuits,  roll  out  dough  one  half  inch  thick. 
Fry  in  hot  lard  to  light  brown. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Greenlaw,  Flag- 
staff, Ariz. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls  milk,  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one  quart  of  flour,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  nutmeg. — Mrs.  F. 
Beckwith,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  two  tablespoons  melt- 
ed butter,  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one-half,  cup  sweet  milk. 
one  even  teaspoon  soda  in  sour  milk,  one  rounding  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  stir  eggs  and  sugar  together ;  add  melted  but- 
ter, then  sour  milk  into  which  soda  has  stirred,  add  one  cup 
flour  into  which  baking  powder  has  been  stirred.  Then  add 
the  half  cup  sweet  milk  alternately  with  flour  until  the  dough 
is  the  right  consistency  to  roll.  Fry  in  hot  fat. — Mrs.  Watson, 
Bay  City,  Mich. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk, 
one-half  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoonful 
soda.  Beat  eggs,  sugar,  sour  milk  and  nutmeg  together. 
Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  boiling  water  and  add.  Add  flour 
and  mix  as  soft  as  possible  to  roll  out.  Fry  in  lard  until 
brown. — Mrs.  Ritter,  Williams,  Ariz. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  sugar,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoon  melted 
lard,  one  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  one  cupful  sour  milk  into 
which  Put  one  teaspoonful  soda  which  has  been  dissolved.  Add 
flour  enough  to  make  batter  sufficiently  thick  to  roll  out  well. 
Cut  into  desired  shape  and  cook  in  hot  lard. — Miss  Margery 
Hicks,  Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  151 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  four  even  cupfuls 
sifted  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder — even  full — 
two  well  beaten  eggs,  two  cupfuls  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  hot 
lard,  nutmeg  or  lemon  to  season.  Roll  soft,  cut  any  desired 
shape,  drop  in  hot  lard.  Drain  well. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Sutherland, 
Winslow,  Ariz. 

FRIED    CAKES. 

Two  good  sized  eggs  well  beaten,  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  four 
cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  W.  R.  Hall's  baking  powder, 
one-half  nutmeg  (grated). — Mrs.  W.  R.  Hall,  Manistee, 
Mich. 

FRIED  CAKES. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  sweet,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter,  pinch  salt, 
one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  thicken,  then 
roll  out.  Cook  in  hot  fat. — Mrs.  Jas.  W.  Johnson,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

FRIED    CAKES. 

Two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  three  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  salt, 
nutmeg,  two  cups  sugar,  three  tablespoons  shortening.  Flour 
sufficient  to  roll  nicely.  Fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  H.  M.  Stark, 
Saginaw,  Mich. 

FRIED    CAKES. 

One  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  sweet  milk,  four  *eggs,  one 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  nutmeg,  one  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful baking  powder  sifted  in  the  flour. — Mrs.  James  Wade, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

FRIED    CAKES. 

One  cup  sugar,  four  eggs,  two  scant  tablespoons  lard"  or 
cottolene,  one  cup  sour  or  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda  or 
baking  powder,  flavoring.  Flour  sufficient  to  roll  nicely, 
Cut  out  and  fry  in  hot  grease. — Mrs.  Chas.  Wade,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

SNOW  BALLS. 

Make  a  stiff  batter  of  two  beaten  eggs,  two  small  cupfuls 
white  sugar,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  each  salt 
and  grated  nutmeg,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  with 
five  cups  flour.  Drop  into  boiling  lard  in  balls  and  fry  same  as 
doughnuts. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Marez,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 


152 


THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


u>6. 

i^v-^&xJL  „ 
^ 

-      -r^- 

_/^J 


DUMPLINGS 


DROP   DUMPLINGS. 

The  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  sifted  flour, 
stir  all  together  and  place  in  a  skillet  containing  a  tablespoon 
of  butter  Let  contents  boil  until  it  leaves  the  side  of  the 
skillet  clean,  then  remove  and  stir  until  cold.  Add  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs.  Season  with  salt  and  nutmeg,  then  drop  with 
a  spoon,  that  has  been  wet  with  cold  water  into  boiling  soup. 
They  are  what  the  Germans  call  Schwanmbloese  and  may  be 
used  in  any  clear  soup. — Mrs.  Wm.  Hayward,  Los  Angeles, 
Cal. 

EGG  DUMPLINGS. 

Two  eggs  beaten  very  light  with  egg  beater,  flour  enough 
to  stiffen  into  which  has  been  sifted  one-third  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Flour  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  spoon. — Mrs. 
F.  O.  Poison,  Williams,  Ariz. 

EGG  DUMPLINGS. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste, 
add  a  little  salt,  grated  nutmeg  and  a  speck  of  butter.  Add 
the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  just  enough  flour  to  be 
able  to  mold  the  dough  into  little  marbles.  Guard  against 
making  too  stiff  and  put  into  boiling  soup  one  minute. — Mrs. 
Wm.  Hayward,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

DELICIOUS  DUMPLINGS  FOR  MEAT. 

One  well  beaten  egg,  pinch  salt,  pinch  sugar,  small  cup 
sweet  milk,  teaspoon  soft  butter,  two  large  teaspoons 
baking  powder  sifted  through  pint  flour,  adding  enough  more 
flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  DroP  tablespoonfuls  into  ket- 
tle of  boiling  meat  eight  minutes  before  ready  to  serve.  Do 
not  allow  steam  to  escape  while  cooking.  Especially  fine  for 
chicken  or  mutton  stew,  any  left  over  are  delicious  sliced  fried 
in  a  little  butter  and  served  with  a  sweet.  Be  sure  to  dip 
spoon  in  hot  broth  each  time  before  taking  on  batter  to  avoid 
sticking. — Mrs.  Geo.  F.  Warren,  Kingman,  Ariz. 

POTATO    DUMPLINGS. 

Potato  dumplings,  or  katoffel  kloese,  are  not  often  made 
by  American  cooks,  but  once  tried  the  recipe  will  become  a 
stand-by.  Six  large  potatoes,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  farina, 
one  scant  cup  flour,  two  tablespoons  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon 


154  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

grated  nutmeg.  Boil  the  potatoes  in  the  jackets,  peel  and 
mash  them  and  run  them  through  the  potato  ricer.  Cool 
and  weigh  before  using.  Two  pounds  of  potato  should  be 
used  for  this  recipe.  To  the  potatoes  add  the  beaten  eggs, 
the  farina,  flour,  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  make  into  small  balls. 
Drop  into  boiling  water  (using  a  teaspoon  of  salt  in  a  quart 
of  water)  and  boil  about  twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  serve 
hot.  Kloese  is  the  German  for  dumplings.  They  are  shaped 
in  balls  and  boiled  in  hot  salted  water  or  soup  stock  and  may 
be  served  with  finely  chopped  onions  fried  in  butter  to  a  deli- 
cate brown. — Contributed. 

SOUR   MILK   DUMPLINGS   FOR   CHICKEN. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  cups  sour  milk  with  one  tea- 
spoon soda  (rounding  full)  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt,  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  add  flour  until  very  stiff.  Drop  into 
to  the  soup. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Teft,  Anacvetes,  Washington. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. 

Mix  into  two  ,eggs  as  much  sifted  flour  as  they  will  absorb, 
with  pinch  of  salt,  then  roll  out  thin  as  a  wafer ;  dust  over  a  little 
flour,  then  roll  over  and  over  into  a  long  roll,  cut  off  thin  slices 
from  the  edge  of  roll,  shake  out  into  long  strips,  let  dry,  put  into 
soup  and  boil  lightly  for  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  M.  D.  Finney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  155 


EGGS 


"Lays   of   ancient    Rome." 
— McCaulay. 

It  was  then  that  I  saw  the  cook  book,  and  while  Mr.  Har- 
bison had  his  back  turned  I  got  it  down.  It  was  quite  clear 
that  the  domestic  type  of  woman  was  his  ideal,  so  I  took  the 
book  into  the  pantry  and  read  the  recipe  over  three  times. 
When  I  came  back  I  knew  it  by  heart  though  I  did  not  un- 
derstand it.  "I  will  tell  you  how,"  I  said,  with  a  great  deal 
of  dignity,  "and  since  you  want  to  help  you  can  make  it 
yourself." 

He  was  delighted. 

"Fine !"  he  said.  "Suppose  you  give  me  the  idea  first.  Then 
we'll  go  over  it  slowly,  bit  by  bit.  We'll  make  a  big  fluffy 
omelet  and  if  the  others  aren't  around  we'll  eat  it  ourselves." 

"Well,"  I  said,  trying  to  remember,  "you  take  two  eggs — ." 
"Two!"  he  repeated.  "Two  eggs  for  ten  people!"  "Don't 
interrupt  me,"  I  said  irritably.  "If — if  two  isn't  enough  we 
can  make  several  omelets,  one  after  the  other." 

He  looked  at  at  me  with  admiration.     "Well,  what  next?" 

"Separate  them,"  I  said  easily.  No,  I  didn't  know  what 
it  meant,  but  I  hoped  he  would.  Iknew  he  was  staring  at 
me  puzzled. 

"Separate  them !"  he  said.  "Why  they  aren't  fastened  to- 
gether!" Then  he  laughed.  "Oh,  yes,  of  course!"  When 
I  looked  at  him  he  had  put  one  on  each  end  of  the  table 
"Afraid  they'll  quarrel,  I  suppose,"  he  said.  "Wei,  noM 
they're  separated." 

"Then  beat." 

"First  separate,  then  beat!"  he  repeated.  "-The  author  of 
that  cook  book  must  have  had  a  mean  disposition.  What 
next?  Hang  them?"  He  looked  up  at  me  with  his  boyish 
smile. 

"Separate  and  beat,"  I  repeated.  If  I  lost  a  word  of  that 
recipe  I  was  gone.  "Well,"  he  reflected,  "you  can't  beat  an 
egg,  no  matter  how  cruel  you  may  be,  unless  you  break  it 
first."  He  picked  up  an  egg  and  looked  at  it.  "Separate:" 
he  reflected.  "Ah,  the  white  from  the — whatever  you  cook- 
ing experts  call  it — the  yellow  part."  "Of  course.  I  knew 
you  would  find  out."  Then  back  to  the  recipe — "beat  until 
well  mixed;  then  fold  in  the  whites." 


WILUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  157 

"Fold:"  he  questioned.  "It  looks  pretty  thin  to  fold,  doesn't 
it?  Please  come  and  show  me  how." 

"Just  fold  them  in,"  I  said  desperately.  "It — it  isn't  diffi- 
cult." And  because  I  was  so  transparent  a  fraud,  I  said 
something  about  butter  and  went  into  the  pantry.  I  leaned 
my  elbows  despondently  on  the  shelf  of  the  kitchen  pantry 
and  waited  for  Mr.  Harbison  to  come  in  and  demand  that  I 
fold  a  raw  egg. 

He  came.  "I  have  solved  it,"  he  said.  "The  mixture 
awaits  the  magic  touch  of  the  cook." 

I  honestly  thought  I  could  do  the  rest.  It  was  only  to  be 
put  in  a  pan  and  browned  in  the  oven  three  minutes.  And 
I  did  it  properly,  but  for  two  things;  I  should  have  greased 
the  pan,  (but  this  was  the  book's  fault;  it  didn't  say)  and  I 
should  have  lighted  the  oven.  The  latter,  however,  was  Mr. 
Harbison's  fault  as  much  as  mine,  and  I  "had  wit  enough  to 
lay  it  to  absent  mindedness  on  the  part  of  us  both. 

Taken  from  "When  a  Man  Marries."  By  Mary  Roberts 
Rineheart. 

EGGS   A   LA    GOLDEN    ROD. 

Three  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt,  five  slices  toast,  one  tablespoonful  butter, 
one  cup  milk,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper  and  parsley.  Make 
a  thin  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  milk  and  seasonings. 
Separate  yolks  from  whites  of  eggs.  Chop  whites  finely  and 
add  one-third  of  them  to  white  sauce.  Make  circular  slices 
of  toast,  arrange  on  platter  and  pour  white  sauce  over  each 
slice.  Pile  chopped  whites  on  toast,  leaving  a  small  space  in 
center.  Force  yolks  through  a  fine  sieve  and  put  on  center  of 
each  slice  of  toast.  Pour  remainder  of  white  sauce  around 
edge  of  platter,  garnish  with  parsley  and  toast  points. — Man- 
istee,  Michigan,  Public  Schools. 

"How  will  you  have  your  eggs  cooked?"  asked  the  waiter. 

"Make  any  difference  in  the  cost?"  inquired  Brannigan,  cautiously. 

"No." 

"Then  cook  'em  with  a  nice  slice  o'  ham,  if  you  plaise." 

EGGS  A  LA   TRIPE. 

Two,  four  or  six  eggs,  according  to  need.  For  two  eggs :  One- 
half  cup  milk ;  fry  one-half  small  onion  in  butter ;  do  not  let 
brown,  just  cook;  add  one  scant  tablespoonful  flour  and 
gradually  the  hot  milk.  It  forms  a  fine,  thick  sauce.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  and  hard  eggs,  halved  or  grated  as  you  wish,  let 


158  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

all  simmer  for  a  few  moments. — Miss  Florence  Parker,  Los 
Angeles,  Calif. 

BAKED    EGGS. 

Beat  the  white  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  stir  with  a  pinch  of  salt, 
drop  yolks  in  the  center  and  set  in  oven  fiVe  minutes. — Mrs.  Geo. 
A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

BREAKFAST   DISH. 

Place  strictly  fresh  eggs  in  oven,  leave  ten  minutes  or  un- 
til the  shells  burst.  Shell  and  serve  along  with  baked  toma- 
toes.— Rev.  Father  Bennett,  St.  John  Rectory,  Globe,  Ariz. 

BUTTERED    EGGS   WITH   TOMATOES. 

Choose  fine  tomatoes  of  medium  size ;  peel,  cut  off  the  tops, 
remove  the  center.  Beat  four  eggs  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Set  tomatoes  in  oven 
to  warm.  Warm  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan.  pour 
in  the  egg  mixture,  stir  quickly  till  it  begins  to  set,  put  in  the 
tomato  shells  and  set  in  the  oven  five  minutes,  serve  on  crou- 
tons of  toast,  sprinkle  with  parsley  and  serve  hot. — Rev. 
Father  Bennett,  St.  Johns  Rectory,  Globe,  Ariz. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 

Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  in  halves.  Fry  one  small  chopped 
onion  and  chopped  apple  in  hot  butter;  add  one-quarter 
cup  of  pounded  almonds,  and  one  pint  of  milk,  mixed  with 
one-half  tablespoonful  cornstarch.  Season  with  salt  and  a 
dessert  spoonful  of  curry  powder.  Let  cook  ten  minutes,  then 
add  the  eggs,  let  all  get  very  hot.  Serve  with  chopped  pickle 
garnish  with  parsley. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter,  Hacken- 
sack,  N.  J. 

DAINTY   EGGS. 

A  dainty  way  to  serve  eggs  for  breakfast,  luncheon  or 
tea,  is  to  take  round  slices  of  bread,  toast  them  delicately, 
butter  them  and  dip  lightly  in  hot  water.  On  each  round 
spread  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  stiff  with  a  speck  of  salt. 
Make  a  depression  in  the  center  in  which  place  a  whole  yolk, 
set  it  in  the  oven  just  long  enough  to  set  the  yolk  and  brown 
the  white  a  trifle.  Place  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  pars- 
ley.— Manistee  Public  School. 

CHIL.E  EGGS. 

Two  slices  of  bacon  fried,  one  onion  and  one-half  can 
green  chile  fried  with  bacon,  then  add  one  can  tomaties,  salt 
to  taste,  let  cook  until  onion  is  tender  which  takes  about  half 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  159 

hour;  in  the  meantime  boil  one-half  dozen  eggs  hard,  remove 
shells  and  cut  in  halves,  placing  in  deep  dish ;  pour  chile  mix- 
ture over  and  serve.  More  chile  may  be  added  if  not  hot 
enough  to  suit  taste. — Mrs.  Eve  Wheeler,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CREAMED   EGGS. 

Heat  one  pint  of  milk,  thicken  with  tablespoon  of  flour  and 
a  pinch-  of  salt,  pour  on  large  platter,  have  six  eggs  boiled 
hard,  cut  in  two  lengthwise,  arrange  in  the  gravy  and  garnish 
with  parsley. — Mrs.  Lloyd,  Sedro  Woolley,  Wash. 

EGGS  IN  MAYONNAISE.  * 

Serve  hard  boiled  eggs  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Remove 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  mash  them  and  mix  with  melted  butter, 
anchovy  paste  and  chopped  cold  boiled  ham  and  add  a  dash  of 
paprika.  Put  this  egg  paste  back  into  the  white  part  of  the 
egg,  arrange  on  a  dish  and  pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over 
them.  The  anchovy  paste  should  be  used  in  proportion  of 
two  tablespoons  of  paste  for  a  dozen  eggs.  The  same  amount 
of  ham  will  be  needed. — Contributed. 

EGGS  IN  WHITE  SAUCE. 

One  cup  white  sauce,  six  eggs  and  one-fourth  pound  grated 
cheese.  To  make  the  sauce  melt  one  tablespoon  butter  in 
frying  pan;  stir  in  one  tablespoon  flour  and  then  stir  in  a 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  stirring  gradually  until  it  makes  a  smooth 
paste;  let  this  come  to  a  boil.  Break  the  eggs  in  a  shallow 
earthenware  plate  which  has  been  buttered,  pour  the  sauce 
over  them,  sprinkle  the  cheese  on  top  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  fifteen  minutes. — Contributed. 

SPANISH  EGG  FOR  ONE  PERSON. 

Heat  a  little  sweet  oil  or  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan;  cut 
up  the  meat  of  two  medium  sized  tomatoes,  some  green  shal- 
lot and  green  sweet  pepper;  cut  them  up  very  fine;  add  one 
third  of  a  tablespoonful  of  "Chile  Powder,"  then  break  two 
fresh  eggs  into  this  and  season  with  salt;  mix  well  and  serve 
very  hot. — Mrs.  E.  Pallett,  Williams,  Ariz. 

"Eggs  and   oaths  are  easily  broken." 
BAKED   OMELET. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  or  six  eggs  separately ; 
add  to  the  yolks  a  small  cup  of  milk,  a  tablespoon  of  flour  or 
cornstarch,  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  lastly  the  stiff  beaten  whites.  Put  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  deep  granite  pan,  set  on 


160  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

stove  until  it  melts  then  pour' the  omelet  into  same  and  bake 
in  a  steady  oven  for  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  R.  C.  Wente,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

EGG  OMELET. 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  butter  size  of  walnut,  half  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  beat  into  this  all 
the  flour  it  will  take. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Cynthiana?  Ky. 

BAKED   OMELET. 

One  cup  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  mix 
until  soft ;  three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  to 
the  beaten  yolks  add,  one-half  cup  milk  and  stir  jnto  the  bread 
crumbs,  salt  and  pepper,  lastly  stir  in  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  one-half  hour  or  until  a  nice  brown. — Mrs.  Don  Reed. 
Harper,  Kan. 

BAKED   OMELET. 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  heaping  teaspoons  flour, 
one  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg;  take  of  the  milk  enough 
to  wet  the  flour;  heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  into  which 
stir  the  flour  paste ;  add  this  to  the  well  beaten  yolks,  also 
the  melted  butter,  stir  in  the  whites  of  eggs  lightly  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes,  salt  when  done. — Mrs.  J.  'E.  Buckbee,  Jr. 

OMELETTE. 

Six  eggs,  butter  size  of  small  egg,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk, 
dash  of  pepper,  flavor  with  onion  or  garlic;  one-half  can  of 
peas,  well  drained.  Put  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  butter, 
milk,  salt,  pepper  and  onion  or  garlic  in  a  pan  and  place  over 
the  fire.  When  hot  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Cook  about  three  minutes,  then  add  the  peas,  fold  together 
and  serve  hot.  If  liked,  one  teacup  of  canned  tomatoes,  well 
drained,  may  be  used  in  place  of  peas. — Contributed. 

CHEESE  OMELETTE. 

Mix  three  tablespoons  flour  with  one  half  pint  of  milk. 
Add  four  beaten  eggs  and  one  fourth  pound  of  grated  or 
ground  cheese,  beat  together,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Fry  in  hot  butter,  serve  hot. — Mrs.  D.  Roberts,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

CAVIAR    WITH    EGG. 

Slices  of  toast,  the  edges  piped  with  beaten  egg,  caviar 
sprinkled  on  top,  whole  yolk  of  raw  egg  dropped  in  center, 
baked  till  set,  and  served  hot. 

EGGS   STUFFED   WITH  CAVIAR. 

Cut  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  the  yolks  removed ;  its  place 
filled  with  Russian  caviar;  served  on  thin  slices  -of  buttered 
brown  bread.  Garnish  with  water  cress. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  161 


FISH 


"The  silvery  fish, 

Grazing  at  large  in  meadows  submarine, 
Fresh  from  the  ware  now  cheers 
Our  festive  board." — Anon. 

FISH. 

Fish  should  be  dressed  as  soon  as  caught.  Salt  fish  must 
be  soaked  eight  or  ten  hours,  with  the  skin  side  up  and  the 
water  changed  two  or  three  times.  Fish  must  not  stand  after 
being  cooked,  but  served  at  once.  The  usual  modes  of  cook- 
ing fish  are  broiled,  baked,  boiled,  fried  and  occasionally 
stewed,  though  steaming  is  much  superior  to  boiling.  Very 
large  fish  are  cut  into  slices  or  steaks,  for  frying  or  broiling. 
Bake  fish  slowly,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water. 
When  boiling  fish,  by  adding  a  little  vinegar  and  salt 
to  the  wrater  it  seasons  and  prevents  the  goodness  from  being 
drawn  out.  Fish  to  be  boiled  should  be  put  in  boiling  water 
and  cook  gently  or  it  will  break  and  look  badly.  Many  put 
fish  into  a  cloth  or  bag  to  boil.  In  frying  fish  the  fire  must 
be  hot  enough  to  sear  the  outside  keeping  the  juices  in.  As 
soon  as  each  side  of  the  fish  is  browned  the  frying  pan  can 
be  moved  back  on  the  range.  In  no  way  is  fish  more  delicious 
or  digestible  than  when  baked,  and  in  no  way  can  it  be  more 
easily  prepared.  With  the  addition  of  a  dressing  or  a  vegeta- 
ble a  very  substantial  dinner  may  be  prepared  with  a  minimum 
of  attention,  which  solves  a  difficult  problem  when  the  house- 
wife finds  her  time  unusually  taken  up  during  the  hour  be- 
fore dinner.  Any  of  the  larger  fish  in  which  the  bones  are 
coarse  are  suitable  for  baking,  such  as  pickerel,  cod,  halibut 
and  white  fish. 

FISH  BALLS. 

Shred  two  cups  cold  boiled  fish,  add  one-half  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  cup  seasoned  mashed  potatoes,  one  well  beaten  egg. 
Season  to  taste  add  grated  onion  or  a  a  little  Worcestershire 
sauce.  Mix  well,  make  into  balls  and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat. — • 
Mrs.  W.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FISH  CAKES. 

Use  equal  quantities  of  shredded  cold  fish  and  mashed  po- 
tatoes, mix  well,  adding  salt,  well  beaten  egg.  Mold  in  the 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  163 

hands  into  small  flat  cake  and  fry  brown  in  butter.     Or  make 
into  balls,  frying  in  hot  lard  or  oil. — Contributed. 

BAKED  WHITE  FISH. 

Place  a  whole  cleaned  fish  in  baking"  pan,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  one-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  place  over  it  three  po- 
tatoes cut  up.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour. — Mrs.  J. 
S.  Irvine,  Williams,  Ariz. 

DRESSING  FOR  FISH'. 

Brown  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  put  one-half  cup  of  fat 
salt  pork  through  the  food  chopper,  and  beat  two  eggs  very 
light.  Mix  these  ingredients  together,  add  salt  and  pepper 
and  sufficient  bread  crumbs  to  thicken.  Seasoning  may  vary  to 
suit  the  occasion  and  the  taste.  Sliced  onion  is  good,  or  a 
few  oysters  chopped  coarse,  or  parsley,  summer  savory  or 
tomato  catsup  may  be  used.  Fill  the  fish  with  this  mixture, 
before  tying,  and  make  the  remainder  of  the  dressing  into 
small,  flat  balls,  and  bake  in  the  same  dish.  Serve  on  a  deep 
platter  with  the  dressing  as  a  garnish.  Thicken  the  gravy 
that  remains  in  the  baking  dish  with  a  little  browned  flour  and 
serve  in  a  separate  dish. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BAKED  FISH. 

Place  fish  in  bake  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and 
chopped  parsley,  cover  with  fried  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of 
butter,  and  moisten  with  rich  sweet  cream.  Then  bake  until 
brown  on  top  and  serve  hot  with  baked  potatoes. 

STUFFING  FOR  BAKED  FISH. 

One  cup  bread  crumbs  one  teaspoon  grated  onion,  one 
teaspoon  chopped  capers,  one-quarter  teaspoon  each  salt,  pep- 
per and  chopped  parsley,  moisten  with  cup  stock  or  milk.  Ex- 
cellent for  salmon. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BAKED  FISH   (FRENCH  STYLE). 

One  five  pound  white  fish.  Place  in  buttered  baking  pan. 
cover  with  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  of  flour,  creamed  into 
a  paste,  salt  and  pepper  well,  add  one  cup  cooked  tomatoes, 
half  an  onion,  garlic,  two  cloves,  small  spice,  bay  leaf,  a  little 
celery. — Mrs.  J.  P.  Parker,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

FRENCH   BAKED   FISH. 

Make  a  plain  bread  dressing  seasoned  only  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  little  parsley.  Stuff  the  fish  and  arrange  in  baking 


164  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

pan.  Form  the  remaining  dressing  into  large  flat  cakes  and 
place  in  bottom  of  pan.  Pour  over  all  a  can  of  tomatoes  sea- 
soned with  salt,  butter  and  the  merest  dash  of  cayenne.  Mince 
a  large  head  of  garlic  very  fine,  and  sprinkle  over  the  top.  The 
flavor  is  very  unusual  but  is  liked  by  most  people  who  are 
fond  of  onions. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PLAIN  BAKED  FISH. 

Clean  the  fish  very  carefully,  place  in  large  dish  of  salted 
water  and  let  stand  for  two  or  three  hours.  When  ready  for 
baking,  remove  from  the  salt  bath,  rinse  with  fresh  cold 
water,  and  dust  the  inside  with  flour  and  a  slight  sprinkle  of 
salt.  Tie  the  fish  in  shape  with  a  string,  sprinkle  the  outer 
surface  with  flour,  and  place  on  a  rack  in  a  baking  pan.  In 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  place  a  little  water  and  a  liberal  amount 
of  butter.  Baste  occasionally.  Bake  from  one  to  one  and 
one-half  hours,  according  to  size  of  fish.  Serve  whole,  gar- 
nished with  hard-boiled  eggs  and  parsley. — Contributed, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

BAKED  FISH  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Prepare  fish  in  usual  wray,  omitting  the  water.  Place  the 
fish  in  a  baking  dish  and  put  over  it  three  large  ripe  tomatoes 
sliced  thin.  Season  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Serve  in  the 
baking  dish. — Contributed. 

BOILED    FISH. 

In  boiling  fish,  one  tablespoon  salt  and  one  of  vinegar 
should  be  added  to  each  quart  of  water  and  to  cover  fish 
which  should  be  sewed  in  a  muslin  cloth.  The  fish  should 
be  put  into  boiling  water.  Let  simmer  on  back  of  range  until 
done,  allow  ten  minutes  to  the  pound  after  water  begins  to  sim- 
mer, until  done.  Place  on  platter,  garnish  with  parsley,  lemon 
in  quarters,  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg.  Serve  with  cream  sauce. 
—Mrs.  W.  F.  Dermont,  Williams.  Ariz. 

BOILED  FISH  WITH  SAUCE. 

Clean  and  season  one  whole  fish.  Put  in  a  cloth  and  let 
boil  in  fresh  water  with  one  slice  onion,  one-half  cup  vine- 
gar, few  slices  of  lemon,  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter.  Let  cook  gently  until  tender.  Serve  on 
hot  platter,  garnished  with  water  cress  and  slices  hard  boiled 
eggs  and  slices  lemon. 

Sauce :  One  tablespoon  brown  sugar.  One  pinch  each 
ginger,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  juice  of  lemon.  Let  all  boil 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  165 

up  well,  add  yolks  of  two  well  beaten  eggs  and  pour  over 
the  fish.  Good  hot  or  cold.  If  any  left  over  make  fish  balls 
for  luncheon. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BROILED  FISH. 

Open  fish  down  the  front,  remove  the  bones,  wash  and  dry. 
Place  on  a  well  greased  broiling  iron,  rub  with  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  while  cooking.  Cook  to  a  delicate  brown.  Re- 
move from  iron  carefully.  Serve  with  butter  sauce  very  hot. 
Garnish  with  parsley  or  water  cress  and  lemon. — Mrs.  W.  F. 
Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FISH  RAMEKINS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  shredded  cooked  fish,  one  cup 
milk :  pepper,  salt,  and  celery  salt,  to  taste.  Heat  milk 
and  thicken  slightly  with  tablespoon  of  flour,  cook  thor- 
oughly, add  the  fish,  pepper,  salt  and  celery  salt.  .  Pour  in 
ramkins,  and  cover  each  with  rolled  cracker  crumbs,  and  bits 
of  butter,  also  a  blanched  almond  in  center  of  each.  Place 
in  oven  and  brown  nicely.  This  recipe  is  just  enough  for 
six  persons. — Miss  Resale  Klock,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FISH  TURBOT. 

Dress  and  salt  thoroughly  one  good  sized  white  fish,  bake 
in  the  oven  until  thoroughly  done ;  pick  to  pieces  very  fine. 
Make  dressing  of  one  pint  milk,  one  teacup  butter,  two  table- 
spoons cornstarch,  one  teaspoon  curry  powder,  little  onion 
chopped  fine,  a  little  thyme.  After  boiiing,  strain ;  mix 
the  fish  lightly  with  a  fork.  Cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs 
and  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  the  oven  until  thoroughly  hot  and 
brown. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Merritt,  Manistee,  Mich. 

FISH  PUDDING. 

One  can  salmon,  drain  the  juice,  break  up  fine,  discard  the 
bones,  add  two  eggs  beaten  lightly,  one  half  cup  bread  crumbs 
a  little  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste,  one  teaspoon  melted  butter. 
Put  in  mold  and  steam  one  hour.  When  ready  serve  with 
following  sauce. 

Sauce :  One  cup  milk  thickened  with  one  taplespoon  flour 
mixed  with  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  egg  (beaten), 
salt  and  pepper,  add  salmon  juice  to  make  pink  color.  Gar- 
nish with  lemon. — Mrs.  N.  J.  Hudson,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 


166  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CODFISH    (A  LA  BARGUAISE). 

Soak  one  pound  fish  over  night  in  cold  water,  cook  until 
tender,  boil  six  good  sized  potatoes,  shred  the  fish,  add  pota- 
toes, one  clove,  little  garlic,  one  bunch  parsley  chopped  fine,  one 
small  teaspoon  each  lard,  salt,  pepper,  mix  thoroughly.  Put 
one  tablespoon  each  butter,  flour,  oilve  oil  in  a  deep  frying  pan. 
when  hot  put  in  mixture.  Brown  lightly,  serve  in  roll  as 
omelet. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Parker,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

CODFISH  AXD  MACARONI. 

Soak  one-half  pound  salt  codfish  overnight.  Steam  until 
tender,  remove  all  bones  and  break  in  small  flakes.  Place  a 
layer  of  cooked  macaroni  on  a  dish,  then  a  layer  of  fish 
and  a  few  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  then  more  macaroni 
and  a  layer  of  fish  on  top.  Set  in  a  warm  place  while  you 
make  a  sauce  as  follows :  One  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  little  pepper. 
Stir  till  creamy,  add  a  cup  of  hot  milk  and  stir  till  thickened. 
Pour  over  the  fish  and  macaroni,  sprinkle  with  minced  pars- 
ley, and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  R.  Reese,  Williams,  Ariz. 

COD  PIE. 

Any  remains  of  cold  cod,  twelve  oysters,  sufficient  melted 
butter  to  moisten  it,  mashed  potatoes  to  fill  up  the  dish.  Mode : 
Flake  the  fish  from  the  bone  carefully,  take  away  all  the  skin. 
Lay  in  a  bake  dish,  pour  over  the  melted  butter  and  oysters  and 
cover  with  mashed  potatoes.  Bake  for  half  an  hour. — Mrs. 
T.  F.  Holden,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FROG  LEGS. 

Skin,  wash  and  dry  nice  plump  frog  legs.  Roll  in  season- 
ed flour  and  fry  in  butter  to  a  nice  brown.  Serve  hot  with 
tartar  sauce. — Mrs.  William  F.  Dermont,  Wingleton,  Mich. 

GRAYLIXG. 

Remove  scales  and  fins,  leaving  head  and  tail,  wash  and  dry 
several,  one  pound  graylings.  Dredge  in  flour,  and  fry  whole 
in  butter  to  a  nice  brown.  Serve  hot.  Garnish  platter  with 
water  cress. — Mrs.  William  F.  Dermont,  Wingleton,  Mich. 

BOILED  HALIBUT. 

Put  a  piece  of  halibut  weighing  two  pounds  in  a  sauce 
pan  covering  it  with  fresh  water;  add  one  sliced  onion,  one- 
half  sliced  carrot  and  small  bunch  mixed  parsley,  celery,  bay 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  Itf7 

leaf,  thyme,  one  clove.  Season  with  small  handful  of  salt 
and  two  tablespoons  good  vinegar.  Put  on  lid  and  let  it  cook 
gently — but  no  more  than  half  hour  after  boiling  point,  then 
lift  up  the  fish  alone,  drain  well,  dress  it  on  a  hot  dish. — Con- 
tributed, Detroit,  Mich. 

BAKED  LOBSTER. 

Stew  a  fresh  lobster  from  thirteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
Shred  the  meat  and  put  it  back  into  the  shells.  Moisten  it 
with  a  little  lemon  juice  or  cream.  Sprinkle  over  it  a  few 
bread  crumbs.  Bake  slightly  and  serve  with  the  lobster  but- 
ter. 

LOBSTER  CROQUETTES. 

One  can  of  lobster  picked  up  fine,  one  egg  beaten  light,  little 
flour  and  butter  and  season  to  taste.  Dip  in  egg  and  rolled 
cracker  crumbs.  Fry  light  brown  in  a  little  butter  and  lard. 
— Mrs.  J.  L.  Richmond,  Chicago,  111. 

GRILLED  LOBSTER. 

Cut  a  lobster  in  two.  Wash  it  well  and  place  it  on  the 
grill.  Add  a  little  butter  while  grilling  ten  minutes  over 
a  hot  fire. 

SCALLOPED  LOBSTERS. 

One  large  lobster;  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sauce,  or  of 
melted  butter  if  preferred;  one-half  cupful  bread  crumbs; 
one  teaspoonful  mixed  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne  pepper.  Pick 
out  all  the  meat.  Pound  it  in  a  mortar,  mixing  it  with  the 
sauce  or  butter  and  seasoning.  Split  the  empty  shells  of 
the  bodies  and  the  tails.  Fill  each  of  them  with  the  pounded 
lobster.  Sprinkle  over  them  a  few  bread  crumbs  and  piece  of 
butter.  Brown  in  oven. — Mme.  Tettrazzini. 

ONE  WAY  TO  USE  CANNED  SALMON. 

Place  the  contents  of  a  one  pound  can  of  salmon  in  a 
quart  bowl  or  small  pan,  add  to  this  two  well  beaten  eggs,  and 
one-half  teacupful  of  yellow  corn  meal,  season  with  salt  and 
black  pepper.  Make  into  small  patties  and  fry  until  brown 
on  both  sides.  Place  on  a  platter,  garnish  with  parsley.  This 
makes  a  delicious  breakfast  dish. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Matthews, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAMED  SALMON  BAKED  IN  SHELLS. 

One  can  salmon,  one  cup  fine  cracker  crumbs.  Cream 
sauce:  One  scant  pint  milk,  two  even  tablespoons  butter, 


168  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

four  heaping  tablespoons  flour,  or  two  heaping  tablespoons 
cornstarch,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  salt  spoon  white 
pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  celery  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne, 
one  teaspoon  onion  juice.  Take  all  bones  from  the  salmon, 
half  of  the  crackers,  enough  of  the  cream  sauce  to  make  the 
salmon  quite  moist.  Put  in  shells  with  the  rest  of  the  cracker 
crumbs  on  top.  Serve  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon. — Mrs. 
William  Wente,  Manistee,  Mich. 

ESCALLOP  SALMON. 

Place  layer  of  salmon,  (after  removing  bones  and  skin,)  in 
bottom  of  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  and 
so  on  until  you  have  desired  amount  before  putting  in  the  oven ; 
cover  with  cream.  Bake  until  brown  in  moderate  oven. — 
Mrse.  J.  E.  Merritt,  Manistee,  Mich. 

SALMON   LOAF. 

Drain  off  the  oil  from  a  large  can  of  salmon ;  then  pick  out 
the  skin  and  bones;  flake  the  fish  and  add  half  the  quantity 
of  bread  crumbs,  one  beaten  egg,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  pack 
in  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with  white  sauce. — Mrs.  Joe 
Atwood,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SALMON   LOAF. 

Remove  bones  and  skin  from  a  good  sized  can  of  salmon, 
add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  one  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Mix  well  and  make  into  a  loaf  and  steam  one  hour 
and  a  half. — Mrs.  F.  W.  Perkins,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

SALMON   LOAF. 

Pour  off  liquid  from  one  can  salmon;  remove  bones  and 
skin.  Beat  with  hands  until  fine  and  flaky,  add  one  well 
beaten  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one- 
half  cupful  cracker  crumbs.  Mold  in  loaf,  bake  and  serve 
hot  with  slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SALMON   LOAF. 

One  can  salmon,  one  cup  soft  stale  bread  or  cracker  crumbs, 
one  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  egg  slightly 
beaten,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Remove  bones  and  flake  the 
salmon,  then  add  bread  crumbs,  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and 
egg.  Mix  well  and  add  milk  slowly.  Mold  into  a  loaf  and 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  Itf9 

bake  in  medium  oven  one-half  hour.  A  little  chopped  onion 
may  be  added  if  one  likes.  If  steamed  instead  of  baked  it 
makes  a  more  moist  loaf  but  is  not  so  easy  to  keep  in  shape 
for  serving.  Serve  hot  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  or  parsley. — Mrs. 
Fred  H.  Perkins,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

SALMON  PUDDING. 

Mince  one  can  salmon  , saving  liquor  for  sauce.  Mix  to- 
gether four  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one-half  cup  fine 
crumbs,  pepper  and  salt,  and  finally  three  well  beaten  eggs, 
make  into  loaf,  then  in  buttered  tin,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 
Cover  and  steam  for  one  hour  (in  oven),  filling  the  pan  with 
boiling  water  as  it  evaporates.  Set  in  cold  water  a  minute 
and  then  turn  out  and  serve. 

Sauce :  Heat  one  cup  milk  to  boiling  and  thicken  with 
tablespoon ful  of  cornstarch  wet  in  cold  water,  add  a  spoonful 
of  butter,  salmon  liquor  and  a  beaten  egg.  Take  from  fire, 
season  and  stand  in  hot  water  in  covered  pan  for  three  minutes. 
Add  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  pour  over  loaf. — Miss  Dorothy 
Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SALMON  PUFFS. 

One  small  can  salmon,  two-thirds  cup  bread  crumbs,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs,  (beaten  seperately)  the  whites 
folded  in  last.  Bake  in  gem  pans  and  serve  with  tomato 
sauce. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Finney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SCALLOPED   SALMON. 

Place  in  shallow  dish,  alternate  layers  shredded  salmon  and 
cracker  crumbs,  season  each  layer  with  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per, add  one  tablespoon  each  butter  and  flour  creamed,  stir  in- 
to one  cup  boiling  milk,  cook,  then  stir  in  one  well  beaten 
egg  and  brown. — Miss  Elva  Burns,  Cliffs,  Ariz. 

RAMEKIN  SALMON. 

Take  one  can  salmon,  pick  fine,  removing  bones  and  skin, 
add  one  cup  good  cream,  one  tablespoon  flour  and  stir  all  to- 
gether. Bake  in  ramekins,  in  oven ;  sprinkle  cracker  crumbs 
over  top  before  putting  in  oven. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Merritt,  Man- 
istee,  Mich. 

BAKED  SHRIMP. 

One  can  shrimp  will  make  eight  individual  dishes.  Break 
shrimp  in  small  pieces,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  one  small 
grated  onion.  Bring  one  pint  milk  or  cream  to  a  boil,  thicken 
with  one  tablespoon  flour  mixed  until  smooth  in  one  table- 
spoon butter.  When  cream  is  thick  pour  over  shrimp  and 


170  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

mix  well.  Fill  shells  with  mixture,  cover  with  bread  crumbs 
and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  until  brown. — Mrs.  Wm.  H. 
Campbell,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

FRENCH  PEAS  AND  SHRIMPS  IN  WHITE  SAUCE. 

Take  equal  portions  French  Peas  and  canned  shrimps,  cut- 
ting shrimp  in  two,  mix  with  white  sauce. 

White  sauce:  Mix  three  tablespoons  flour,  (level),  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  melt  two  tablespoons 
butter,  add  the  flour,  then  cup  scalded  milk.  Cook  until  thick, 
fill  ramekins  or  pudding  dish  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 
Bake  until  cheese  is  melted  and  slightly  browned. — Mrs.  0.  F. 
Philbrook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

BROOK  TROUT. 

Clean,  wash  and  dry  trout  of  one-half  to  three-quarter 
pound  each — leaving  on  head  and  tail.  Dip  each  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  seasoned  cracker  or  dry  bread  crumbs.  Keep 
whole  and  fry  in  butter,  Serve  hot  with  creamed  potatoes. — 
Mrs.  William  F.  Dermont,  Trout  Creek,  Mich. 

DIRECTIONS   FOR   FRYING   TROUT. 

Do  not  cut  off  the  heads  and  tails.  After  they  have  been 
cleaned  and  wiped  dry,  when  they  come  from  the  stream,  put 
them  away.  Do  not  put  them  in  the  water  again.  Keep  them 
cold  and  do  not  bring  them  into  the  kitchen  until  you  get  ready 
to  fry  them  and  not  allowed  to  get  warm  anjl  limber.  Put  in 
plenty  of  pepper  and  salt  and  roll  in  flour. 

Take  your  heaviest  frying  pan,  and  put  in  a  few  slices  of 
pork,  never  use  bacon.  When  the  grease  is  hot  put  the  fish  in 
and  never  cover  them,  do  not  let  them  burn  on  the  bottom, 
and  turn  njlhout  breaking  them.  Let  them  cook  quite 
awhile  so  they  will  be  well  done  and  quite  crisp,  and  remove 
without  grease.  Sometimes  it  is  better  to  lay  them  on  a  piece 
of  brown  paper  for  an  instant  to  take  away  the  grease. 
Serve  on  hot  plates.  Be  cooking  the  second  frying  panful 
when  the  first  goes  on  the  table.  Do  not  garnish  the  platter. 
— William  B.  Mershon,  Saginaw,  Mich. 


WIUJAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


GAME 


"Who  so  seeks  an  audit  here, 
Propitious  pays  his  tribute — game  or  fish, 
Wild  goul  or  venison,  and  his  errand  Speed." — Cowper. 

ROAST  WILD  GOOSE  OR  TURKEY. 

After  picking  and  washing  with  cold  water  thoroughly, 
put  in  roaster  and  sprinkle  good  with  flour  salt  and  pepper, 
(use  strips  of  onion  for  goose).  Then  put  in  a  quart  of 
water,  cover  tight  and  bake  for  two  hours.  Then  pour  off 
the  broth  onto  your  dry  bread  broken  up  fine  and  when  thor- 
oughly soaked,  stuff  the  fowl  and  return  to  oven  for  one  hour. 
— Mrs.  J.  F.  Daggs,  Williams,  Ariz. 

STEWED  DUCK,  GOOSE,  RABBIT,  QUAIL  OR  TURKEY. 
(CAMP   STYLE) 

Dress  the  game,  place  in  a  stew  pan  with  quart  of  water 
tor  each  pound  with  salt,  pepper,  onions  (or  garlic)  over 
slow  fire  two  hours.  Then  make  dumplings  of  flour  and  bak- 
ing powder,  drop  in  small  sections,  cook  thirty  minutes,  mix 
a  thin  batter  of  milk  and  flour  for  gravy  and  cook  ten  min- 
utes and  serve  at  once. — Mr.  J.  F.  Daggs,  Williams,  Ariz. 

RABBIT  PIE. 

Dress,  cut  up  and  wash  and  wipe  the  rabbit  very  dry.  Have 
in  a  kettle  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  small  onion, 
pepper  and  salt.  Brown  the  rabbit  in  this,  then  add  water  and 
stew  until  very  tender.  Then  finish  as  for  chicken  pie. — 
Mrs.  P.  A.  Melick,  Williams,  Ariz. 

"A  bird  in  the  hand  is  worth  two  in  the  bush." 
TO  ROAST  SNIPES,  WOODCOCKS  OR  PLOVERS. 

Pick  them  immediately  after  being  killed,  wipe  them  and 
season  them  slightly  with  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  as  many 
slices  of  bread  as  you  have  birds ;  toast  brown,  butter,  and  lay 
in  the  pan.  Dredge  the  birds  with  flour  and  put  them  in  the 
oven  with  a  brisk  fire,  baste  with  lard  or  fresh  butter;  roast 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Serve  them  laid  on  the  toast,  and 
garnish  with  sliced  oranges,  or  with  orange  jelly. — Mrs.  J.  R. 
Ross,  Williams,  Ariz. 

VEMSOX  WITH  CHILI. 

Cut  one  pound  of  venison  steak  into  small  dice,  throw  into 
pan  with  hot  lard  and  fry  brown,  add  one  tablespoon  of  flour 


.WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  173 

to  thicken  and  two  cups  of  water.     Salt  and  pepper  and  add 
teaspoon  of  ground  chili. — A.  Willson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SADDLE    OF    VENISON.        ' 

Put  the  venison  on  to  bake,  with  the  side  which  is  upper- 
most when  it  comes  to  the  table  placed  next  to  the  pan.  Make 
the  following-  dressing  and  use  as  described :  Season  one  pint 
of  bread  crumbs  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  meat  is  about 
half  done  turn  it  over  and  make  gashes  on  either  side  of  the 
bone  and  stuff  with  the  dressing.  Pour  over  the  roast  one-half 
teacup  of  tomato  catsup  and  a  half  teacup  of  black  molasses, 
stir  a  tablespoonful  of  whole  allspice  and  a  teaspoon  of  brown 
sugar,  pour  this  over  the 'meat,  then  sprinkle  bread  crumbs 
over  the  top,  bake  slowly,  keep  well  basted  until  done.  Serve 
with  little  dots  of  jelly  over  top  of  roast. — Mrs.  K.  W. 
Williams,  Cynthiana,  Ky. 

VENISON  PUFFS. 

Shave  the  desired  quantity  of  cold  venison  into  very  thin 
small  slices,  mix  thick  gravy  with  a  little  currant  jelly,  roll 
puff  paste  very  thin,  cut  into  square  pieces,  and  in  each  piece 
put  enough  of  the  meat  to  fill,  season  with  salt,  make  them 
into  light  puffs,  brush  each  puff  with  the  white  of  an  egg. 
Bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  A.  S.  Lebsch,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BROILED   VENISON   STEAK. 

Place  the  venison  steak  on  a  hot  broiler.  When  partly 
cooked,  turn  pepper  and  salt.  When  both  sides  are  seasoned 
and  sufficiently  cooked  remove  from  fire,  and  butter.  Serve 
hot  with  baked  potatoes. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Hull,  Williams, 
Ariz.,  aged  95  years. 


174  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


ICES,  SHERBETS  AND  FROZEN  DESSERTS 


"Glittering  squares  of  colored  ice,  sweetened  with  syrup,  tintured 
with  spice,  creams  and  cordials  and  sugared  dates,  Syrian  apples,  Ott- 
man  quinces.  Lime  and  citrons  and  apricots  that  are  known  to  Eastern 
princes.  And  all  that  the  curious  palate  could  wish  pass  in  and  out  of 
the  Cedarri  doors." — T.  B.  Aldrich. 

APRICOT  ICE. 

Four  cups  white  sugar,  one  quart  water  (boiling).  One 
can  apricots  (put  through  a  sieve),  juice  of  one  lemon. 
When  syrup  is  cold  add  fruit  and  freeze. — Mrs.  Jesse  Boyce, 
Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

LEMON  WATER-ICE. 

Juice  of  four  lemons,  small  can  pineapple  shredded,  one 
and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  quarts  water,  whites  of  four  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Freeze. — Mrs.  VanZaudt,  San  Pedro,  Calif. 

LEMON  ICE. 

Boil  one  pint  granulated  sugar,  one  quart  water,  let  it  get 
cold,  add  juice  of  four  lemons,  juice  of  one  orange.  Freeze. 
When  nearly  frozen  add  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  and 
finish  freezing. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Merritt,  Manistee,  Mich. 

ORANGE  ICE. 

Five  oranges,  five  cups  sugar  boiled  to  syrup,  two  table- 
spoons gelatine,  whites  of  three  eggs.  Water  enough  to  near- 
ly fill  gallon  freezer. — Mrs.  McDonald  Robinson,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

ORANGE  ICE. 

One  quart  orange  juice,  one  quart  water,  three  cups  sugar, 
one-half  box  gelatine,  (soaked  in  one  cup  water  fifteen  min- 
utes). When  dissolved  add  fruit  juice  and  freeze. — Mrs.  W. 
Patterson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FROZEN  CHEESE  BALLS  WITH  FIGS. 

Mash  two  good  sized  cream  cheeses,  and  beat  them  with  half 
a  cup  of  whipped  cream  till  it  is  smooth.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  or  sweeten  with  sugar.  Put  into  a  pail  or  mould  in 
small  balls,  bury  in  ke  and  salt  four  hours.  Serve  with  a  pre- 
served fig  placed  on  top  of  round  ball,  or  shape  to  suit. — Mrs. 
Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 


176  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

PINEAPPLE   ICE. 

One  can  grated  pineapple,  juice  of  three  lemons,  one  quart 
of  cold  water,  one  egg,  three  cups  of  sugar.  Freeze. — Mrs. 
W.  Patterson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PINEAPPLE  BISQUE. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  one  cup  of  pulverized 
sugar,  add  one  pint  of  whipped  cream — stir  well  until  very 
light.  Then  add  one  small  can  of  shredded  pineapple.  Mix 
well  with  a  small  glass  of  canned  currant  juice.  Freeze  and 
serve  in  sherbet  glasses.  Garnish  top  of  each  glass  with  halved 
grapes. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

RASPBERRY  ICE. 

Two  cups  water,  one  cup  sugar,  juice  of  lemon,  one  can 
red  raspberries,  boil  sugar  and  water  ten  minutes.  Let  cool, 
then  acid  to  juice,  strain  and  freeze. — Mrs.  J.  Salzman,  Los 
Angeles,  Calif. 

THREE  FRUIT  ICE. 

Three  oranges,  three  lemons,  one-half  can  peaches,  three 
cups  sugar,  one  cup  water  boiled  to  syrup.  Fill  gallon  freez- 
er half  full,  adding  little  water.  When  half  frozen  add  one 
quart  thick  cream  and  freeze. — Mrs.  MacDonald  Robinson. 
Williams,  Ariz. 

HERBERT'S    FRUIT   ICE. 

Put  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar  and  one  pint  of  water 
over  the  fire,  bring  to  boil,  skim  and  strain.  When  cold  add 
one  cupful  strawberry  juice,  the  juice  o  fone  lemon,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  orange  juice.  Freeze. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Sanders, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAM  SHERBET. 

Three  pints  fresh  milk,  one  pint  cream,  one  quart  sugar, 
four  juicy  lemons,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Squeeze  lemons, 
strain  and  add  sugar,  dissolve  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine 
in  cold  water,  then  add  two  teaspoons  boiling  water.  Strain 
into  the  mixture  just  as  you  are  ready  to  freeze.  Do  not  add 
milk  and  cream  until  ready  to  turn  crank. — Mrs.  T.  A. 
Barney,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

CRANBERRY  SHERBET. 

Cook  one  quart  cranberries  and  one  cup  water  until  the 
berries  burst  open,  then  press  out  juice  through  cheesecloth.  To 
one  pint  add  the  juice  of  one  large  orange  and  one  cup  sugar 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  177 

and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Then  open  freezer  and  stir  in  the 
white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff,  and  finish  freezing.  Serve  in 
glasses. — Mrs.  Pearson  (demonstrator),  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

One  quart  boiling  water,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  sugar, 
four  lemons,  one  orange.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  and 
grated  rind  of  three  lemons  together  for  five  minutes.  When 
cool  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  orange,  just  before  freez- 
ing add  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg. — Mrs.  Jos.  S.  Amund- 
sen, Williams,  Ariz. 

MILK  SHERBET. 

One  pint  cream,  two  scant  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  quart 
milk,  add  sugar  to  milk,  whip  the  cream  and  add  to  sugar  and 
milk,  and  partially  freeze.  Then  add  the  juice  of  three  lem- 
ons (strained,)  and  finish  freezing. — Mrs.  J.  D.  LaChance, 
Winslow,  Ariz. 

MILK  SHERBET. 

One  quart  rich  sweet  milk,  two  cupfuls  sugar,  freeze  al- 
most hard  and  add  juice  three  lemons,  juice  two  oranges, 
beaten  whites  two  eggs,  and  freeze  hard. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Apple- 
ton,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ORANGE   SHERBET. 

Juice  of  four  oranges  ancl  two  lemons,  one  cup  sugar,  two 
pint  cups  water.  Freeze. — Anon. 

PINEAPPLE   SHERBET. 

One  pint  of  fresh  or  one-  can  grated  pineapple,  one  pint 
sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  pint  water.  Boil  water 
first  and  let  stand  until  cold,  freeze.  When  nearly  frozen  add 
whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  and  finish  freezing. — Manistee 
Public  School,  Manistee,  Mich. 

PINEAPPLE    SHERBET. 

Boil  two  cups  water  and  one  cup  sugar,  dissolve  one  table- 
spoon gelatine  in  cold  water  and  stir  in  the  hot  syrup,  beat 
until  cold,  then  add  four  well  beaten  eggs,  whites,  and  the  con- 
tents of  a  can  grated  pineapple  with  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Freeze  and  serve  in  glasses. — J.  W.  Baylis,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PINEAPPLE    SHERBET. 

Chop  fine  one  large  pineapple,  add  one  pint  of  sugar,  one 
pint  of  water.  Soak  one  tablespoon ful  of  gelatine  in  water 


178  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

till  dissolved,  add  all  together  with  one  pint  of  boiling  water, 
and  freeze  as  for  ice  cream. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  R.  Ashurst,  Flag- 
staff, Ariz. 

STRAWBERRY  SHERBET. 

One  box  crushed  strawbe'rries,  one  quart  water,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons,  white  of  one  egg. 
Freeze. — Mrs.  George  A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

STRAWBERRY  SHERBET. 

Six  Gallons.  Twenty-four  boxes  strawberries,  crushed, 
juice  two  dozen  lemons,  syrup  made  from  fifty  cents  worth 
sugar,  six  boxes  bromangelon,  (orange  or  lemon),  whites  of 
six  eggs  beaten  up  and  added  after  mixture  begins  to  freeze. 
A  little  pinch  of  salt. — Mrs.  H.  F.  Adams,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FRUIT  MOUSSE. 

One  pint  whipped  cream,  one  cup  pulverized  sugar,  one  can 
fruit  cut  in  dice,  one-quarter  box  gelatine,  set  in  cold 
to  freeze,  or  pack  in  freezer.  Will  freeze  in  about  two  hours. 
Peaches  or  pineapples  are  best. — Mrs.  Will  Mclntyre,  Phoenix, 
Ariz. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE. 

Beat  whites  of  four  eggs  until  light,  add  one  cup  maple 
syrup,  put  fn  double  boiler  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  then 
set  on  ice  to  cool.  When  cool  add  one  quart  whipped 
cream,  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Blend  all  together  smoothly,  pour  into  a  freezer,  pack  in  ice 
and  salt,  let  stand  four  hours. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Shultz,  Flagstaff, 
Ariz. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE. 

One  cup  maple  syrup,  cook  until  it  threads,  do  not  stir. 
Pour  boiling  syrup  over  well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  When 
cool  add  one  quart  of  cream  well  whipped.  Freeze.  When 
partly  frozen  add  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten. — Mrs.  McD. 
Robinson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PINEAPPLE  MOUSSE. 

To  the  syrup  of  one  can  of  pineapple  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
gelatine,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  one  half  teacup  of  hot 
wrater  and  .the  juice  of  one  lemon,  one-half  teacup  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  When  the  mixture  is  cold  and  begins' to  thicken 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  179 

add  with  a  spoon  three  teacups  of  whipped  cream,  and  three 
grated  pineapples.  Put  in  a  mold  and  pack  in  salt  and  ice. 
After  five  hours  serve. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Cynthiana, 
Ky. 

FROZEN  PEACHES. 

One  can  of  twelve  large  peaches,  four  coffee  cups  of  sugar, 
one  pint  water,  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  break 
peaches  rather  fine,  then  stir  in  the  ingredients  and  freeze. 
This  makes  about  three  quarts  when  frozen. — Mrs.  George 
A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

FROZEN  RICE. 

Boil  two  cups  of  rice  in  ice  water,  and  as  it  boils  away  add 
milk.  Cut  two  ounces  of  candied  cherries  fine,  and  soak 
in  the  juice  of  six  oranges.  When  rice  is  tender  add  a  little 
salt,  two  cups  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  two  oranges.  When 
cold  add  orange  juice,  and  cherries,  one  pint  of  whipper 
cream  and  freeze. — Miss  Dempsey,  Manistee,  Mich. 

ICE  CREAM. 

One  quart  cream  beaten  to  a  froth,  whites  of  four  eggs, 
one-half  cup  sugar  beaten  thoroughly  together  with  the  eggs, 
one  cup  sugar  well  beaten  with  the  cream.  Any  desired  flav- 
oring. Freeze. — Mrs.  W.  Patterson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

HOT  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM. 

One  one-half  cups  powdered  sugar,  butter  size  of  egg,  one- 
half  cake  chocolate,  one  cup  cream,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Rub 
butter,  sugar,  and  melted  chocolate  to  a  cream,  boil  six  min- 
utes, add  vanilla,  boil  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  strain. — Mrs. 
T.  A.  Barney,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

CHERRY  ICE  CREAM  (No.  1). 

Make  a  plain  rich  white  cream,  and  flavor  with  cherry 
juice,  which  must  be  very  rich  and  sweet.  Freeze  and  serve  in 
glasses,  and  over  each  one  put  a  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
cherries. — J.  W.  Baylis,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MAPLE   ICE    CREAM. 

Two  cups  of  maple  syrup,  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  of 
cream,  beat  eggs  well,  add  syrup,  and  boil  twenty  minutes, 
cool,  add  cream  and  freeze. — Miss  Dempsey,  Manistee,  Mich. 


180  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

MAPLE   ICE    CREAM. 

One  quart  of  cream,  one  cup  of  maple  syrup,  boil  until  it 
threads,  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  heat  part  of  cream  and 
pour  over  well  beaten  yolks,  add  hot  syrup,  and  balance  of 
cream,  mix  well  and  freeze  at  once.  When  partly  frozen 
add  vanilla  (tablespoon  or  more)  and  whites  of  two  eggs. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  shelled  almonds,  and  set  aside  for  a 
while,  then  blanch  (take  skins  off)  and  set  in  a  slow  oven  to 
brown  a  little.  Watch  closely,  then  break  up  with  a  knife,  and 
serve  on  top  of  cream. — Mrs.  Riley  Wolcott,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

MAPLiE  ICE  CREAM  (For  a  Two  Quart  Freezer). 

One  quart  cream,  two  eggs  (beaten),  one  cup  maple  syrup, 
stir  together  and  freeze. — Miss  Lela  Morrison,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif. 

MOONSHINE. 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  add  four  heaping  table 
spoons  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  cook  in  double  boiler 
stirring  constantly  until  like  jelly.  Have  the  whites  beaten 
stiff,  add  the  mixture  in  double  boiler  to  them  and  beat  all 
together.  Freeze. — Mrs.  John  L.  Vanzandt,  San  Pedro,  Calif. 

STRAAATiERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

Three  quarts  ripe  strawberries  mashed  and  put  thru  sieve, 
one  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  let  this  stand  two  hours,  then 
add  one  quart  cream  and  freeze,  (makes  three  quarts). — Mrs. 
W.  Patterson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

Put  in  the  double  boiler:  One  quart  rich  sweet  milk.  Let- 
it  become  very  hot  and  add  two  cupfuls  granulated  sugar, 
'one-quarter  box  dissolved  gelatine,  yolks  four  eggs  well 
beaten.  When  scalding  hot  remove  from  the  fire  and  cool, 
after  which  add  one  quart  whipped  cream,  to  this  add 
two  quarts  nice  ripe  crushed  sweetened  berries.  Freeze  in 
the  usual  way.  Serve  in  cantelope  cups  with  small  dice  of  the 
cantaloupe  on  top,  with  a  very  large  ripe  strawberry  on  the 
very  top. — Mrs.  Win.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

VANIL.LA  ICE  CREAM. 

Place  in  the  double  boiler,  one  one-half  quarts  rich  sweet 
milk,  one-quarter  box  dissolved  gelatine.  Sweeten  to  taste. 
When  scalding  hot  add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  stirring  con- 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  181 

stantly  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and 
when  cool  add  two  quarts  rich  whipped  cream.  Flavor  with 
vanilla,  adding  more  sugar  if  necessary  and  freeze  in  the 
usual  way.  If  desired  mold  in  large  mold  or  in  smaller  in- 
dividual moulds.  Serve  plain  or  with  chocolate — nut  sauce. 
Corn  starch  loaf  cake  eaten  with  above  is  most  palatable. — 
Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MAPL.E  PARFAIT. 

(Enough  for  10  persons).  Beat  the  yolks  of  ten  egg-s 
very  light  and  add  a  large  cupful  of  maple  syrup,  put  over 
the  fire  and  cook  till  it  thickens,  then  take  it  off  and  beat  till 
cold,  add  quickly  a  quart  of  cream  beaten  till  perfectly  stiff 
and  pour  it  into  a  two  quart  melon  mold.  Pack  in  ice  and 
salt  for  six  hours.  Serve  with  sunshine  cake.  This  can  be 
frozen  in  a  freezer  if  your  cream  is  not  thick. — Mrs.  William 
Wente,  Manistee.  Mich. 

MAPLE  PARFAIT. 

Pour  three-fourths  of  a  teacup  of  maple  syrup  over  six 
well  beaten  eggs.  Cook  until  begins  to  thicken,  pour 
out  and  beat  until  light,  then  pour  in  two  teacups  of  whipped 
cream.  Put  this  in  a  mold  and  pack  in  salt  and  ice.  Let 
it  remain  several  hours  then  serve. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams, 
Cynthiana,  Ken. 

RASPBERRY  PARFAIT. 

One  teacupful  rich  whipped  sweet  cream — two  clays  old, 
one  teacup  crushed  ripe  raspberries,  sweetened  to  taste.  Line 
the  sides  of  chilled,  tall,  individual  glasses  with  moderately, 
frozen  vanilla  ice  cream.  Fill  this  vacancy  with  chilled 
crushed  raspberries.  On  the  top  put  whipped  cream  with 
ripe,  red  raspberries.  Serve  at  once.  Any  desired  fruit  may 
be  used. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 


182  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  183 


184  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  185 


ICINGS 


"Whatsoever  thy  hand  finedth  to  do,  do  it  with  thy  might." 

— Bible. 

BOIL/ED   ICING. 

One  cup  sugar,  four  teaspoons  boiling  water,  one-quarter 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  white  one  egg,  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Richardson,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

CARAMEL  CAKE  FROSTING. 

One  cup  light  brown  sugar,  one-third  cup  granulated  sugar 
two-third  cup  thin  cream,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Rut  first 
three  ingredients  over  fine  in  sauce  pan  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved, then  cook,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning, 
until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Pour 
on  a  platter,  add  vanilla  and  beat  until  the  right  consistency  to 
spread.  Add  nuts  before  spreading  if  desired. — Mrs.  Scott 

Mitchell,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

• 

CARAMEL  ICING. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  cream.  Piece  of  butter 
size  of  walnut. — Mrs.  Wm.  Daze,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

CARAMEL    FOR    CAKE. 

One  dessert  spoonful  butter,  one  teacup  brown  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  one-fourth  cup  milk.  Boil 
twenty  minutes. — Dorothy  Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LIGHT   CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

Add  to  the  white  icing,  one  eighth  of  a  square  of  Baker's 
chocolate,  dissolved  and  cooled  before  adding.  While  this 
is  delicious  it  is  also  very  pretty. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom, 
Hartford,  Conn. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

Beat  stiff  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  add  one  cup  sugar  six 
tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  put  on  when  cake  is  cold. — Mrs. 
Geo.  Barney,  Wiliams,  Ariz. 

COCOA  FILLING. 

One  tablespoon  cocoa,  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  three  table- 
spoons milk,  one  teaspoon  vanilla. 


WII.UAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  187 

CARAMEL    FROSTING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  three-quarter  cup  milk, 
one-half  tablespoon  butter,  Cook  until  a  ball  is  formed  when 
mixture  is  tried  in  cold  water.  Beat  until  ready  to  use. — 
Mrs.  Finney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

DIVINITY  FRUIT  ICING. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  white  sugar,  the  beaten 
whites  of  one  one-half  eggs.  Boil  brown  sugar  with  a  little 
water  until  it  hairs  from  the  spoon.  Pour  over  the  beaten 
whites,  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  pour  over  the 
boiling  white  sugar — boiled  until  it  threads — and  beat  until 
it  thickens  ready  to  spread.  Add  a  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  figs, 
raisins  and  dates  and  spread  on  cake. — Miss  Sutherland,  Tar- 
kio,  Mo. 

DRESSING  FOR  CAKE  AND  SHORT  CAKE. 

Put  into  a  deep  bowl  or  basin  one  heaping  cup  of  fresh 
strawberries,  crush  them  thoroughly  with  a  fork  or  potatoe 
masher,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  the  unbeaten  white  of  an 
egg.  Beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  light  and  serve  as  a  dress- 
ing over  loaf  cake. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Glowner,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FUDGE   FROSTING. 

One-half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  cup  unsweetened 
cocoa,  one  and  one-fourth  cupfuls  confectioner's  sugar,  one- 
fourth  cup  milk,  saltspoon  of  salt.  Melt  cocoa,  sugar,  butter, 
salt  and  milk  and  boil  eight  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add 
vanilla,  beat  until  creamy  and  pour  over  cake  one-fourth  inch 
thick. — Mrs.  Brophy,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LEMON   HONEY. 

One  cup  sugar,  well  beaten  egg,  add  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  one  lemon,  butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut ;  melt  all  over 
a  slow  fire,  stir  rapidly  until  as  thick  as  honey.  This  is  very 
nice  to  spread  on  layer  cake. — Mrs.  Eva  Wheeler,  Manistee, 
Mich. 

MAPLE  ICING. 

One  pound  of  moist  maple  sugar,  melt  in  hot  water,  let 
boil  until  it  reaches  the  soft  ball  stage,  pour  in  fine  stream 
over  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  until  foamy,  spread  on  the 
top  of  cake. — Mrs.  Thiermann,  Adrian,  Mich. 

MAPLE  FILLING. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  maple  syrup,  let  boil  until  will 
spin  a  t.hread,  then  pour  over  the  whites  of,  two  eggs,  beaten 


188  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

stiff,  beating  all  the  time.  Is  very  good.  One  may  add 
chopped  nuts  if  they  wish. — Mrs.  Eva  Wheeler,  Flagstaff, 
Ariz. 

BOILED  FROSTING. 

One  and  one-half  cupful  granulated  sugar,  eight  tablespoon- 
fuls  cold  water.  Boil  until  it  threads  or  hairs,  then  beat  into 
the  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  then  syrup,  until  it  is  stiff  enough 
to  spread. — Miss  Lydia  Nelson. 

ICING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  teaspoon  but- 
ter, cooked  enough  to  form  a  ball  dropped  in  water.  Beat  till 
thick  and  creamy.  Put  between  layers  and  on  top. — Mrs.  C.  B. 
Hollaway,  Phoenix,  Ariz. 

MARSHMALLOW  FROSTING. 

As  soon  as  cake  is  removed  from  pan  cover  bottom  with 
marshmellows  pulled  apart  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  but 
not  quite  separated  into  halves.  The  exposed  soft  surface 
will  quickly  adhere  to  hot  cake.  Cover  with  boiled  icing. — 
Mrs.  A.  W.  Richardson,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

MOCHA  FILLING. 

One  cup  strong  coffee,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  scant 
cup  of  butter  with  salt  washed  out  in  cold  water,  yolk  of  one 
egg.  Boil  coffee  and  sugar  until  very  stiff  (beads),  cream  egg 
and  butter  together.  Pour  boiling  syrup  into  butter  and  egg 
like  any  icing/ — Miss  Retta  Beasley,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

MOCHA  FILLING. 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  warm  coffee,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoa  or 
chocolate. — Mrs.  John  Clark,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

UNCOOKED    ICING. 

Three  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  three 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter ;  any  flavoring  desired.  Beat  for 
about  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  Ross  Barnard,  Williams,  Ariz. 

STRAWBERRY  ICING. 

Take  six  large  juicy  strawberries,  crush  with  fork;  add  pow- 
dered sugar  to  stiffen.  Nice  to  put  any  cake  together  with, 
especially  a  white  one. — Mrs.  Eva  Wheeler,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  189 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  CAKE  FILLING. 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  hot  water,  one  tablespoon  glucose, 
thirty-two  marshmallows,  one-fourth  pound  chocolate  creams, 
one-fourth  pound  crystallized  fruit,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one 
cup  of  walnuts  chopped  fine.  Cook  sugar,  water  and  glucose 
until  it  threads,  add  marshmallows.  Have  the  eggs  beaten 
light ;  when  the  marshmallow  is  soft-,  pour  over  the  eggs.  Beat 
until  almost  cool,  add  the  nuts,  creams  and  fruit. — Mrs.  D.  B. 
Thurston,  Manistee,  Mich. 

WHITE  ICING. 

Put  in  sauce  pan  on  the  range,  two  cups  granulated  sugar 
with  seven  tablespoon fuls  of  cold  water.  Boil  until  it  hairs. 
Beat  very  stiff  the  whites  of  two  eggs.  To  this  add  the  syrup 
gradually,  beating  hard  and  constantly  until  it  will  spread 
nicely.  Add  teaspoon  vanilla  if  desired. — Miss  Charlotte 
Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 


190  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  191 


192  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


DIET   FOR   TYPHOID   CONVALESCENTS. 

The  first  week  after  temperature  subsides  the  patient  may  be 
given  corn  meal  gruel,  arrowroot,  with  milk',  sago  and  rice. 

Second  week  the  patient  may  have  oysters,  claims,  raw  eggs 
with  milk,  milk  toast  and  toasted  crackers. 

The  patient  should  wait  until  ten  days  after  temperature  sub- 
sides before  taking  solid  food,  beginning  with  scraped  beefsteak, 
poached  eggs  on  toast  and  gradually  increasing  until  normal 
diet  is  established. 

The  first  week  a  convalescent  patient  should  have  plenty  of 
fresh  air  and  sunshine,  soda  baths  daily  and  alcohol  rubs,  and 
may  be  permitted  to  sit  up  a  little  the  latter  part  of  the  first  week. 

The  second  week  a  convalescent  patient  may  be  taken  out  in 
the  open  air  and  permitted  to  remain  two  or  three  hours  at  a 
time  in  a  reclining  position. 

Should  abnormal  temperature  return  if  the  patient  has  been 
given  solid  food  such  food  should  be  discontinued. — N.  H. 
Morrison,  Chief  Surgeon,  A.  T.  &  S.  F.  R.  R.,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif. 


DISHES  INVALIDS  WILL  ENJOY 


APPLES  IN  GRAPE  JUICE. 

Apples,  grape  juice,  cream.  You  cannot  have  this  in  perfec- 
tion unless  you  start  with  some  sound  apples.  Pare  them  care- 
fully. Have  a  little  sweetened,  unfennented  grape  juice  boil- 
ing, and  cook  the  pared  apples  in  the  juice  until  they  have  be- 
come tender.  Then  lift  them  carefully  and  place  them  on  the 
serving-dis.h.  Boil  down  the  juice  until  it  has  become  quite 
thick,  and  pour  it  over  the  apples.  Serve  .cold  with  or  without 
cream.  If  preferred,  soft  custard  may  be  substituted  for 
cream. 

BARI/EYADE  AND  JELL/Y. 

One-half  pint  of  Pearl  barley,  three  pints  of  water,  one  table- 
spoon of  orange  juice,  seasoning. .  Carefully  pick  over  the  bar- 
ley and  then  wash  it.  Cover  with  three  pints  of  water  and  cook 
slowly  for  two  hours ;  then  pour  off  a  teacupful,  strain  it  and 
sweeten  to  taste.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  orange  juice. 
It  will  be  palatable  and  nutritious.  Let  the  remainder  of  the 
barley  cook  until  it  is  soft  enough  to  pass  through  a  sieve, 
adding  more  water  if  necessary;  then  salt  it,  sweeten  and 
flavor  slightly  with  nutmeg.  Pour  into  a  mould,  and  when  it 
is  cold  serve  with  thin  cream,  milk,  or  any  ripe  fruit  juice, 
sweetened. 

SCRAPED   BEEFSTEAK. 

One-half  pound  of  beefsteak,  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  parsley. 

This  is  quite  simple  and  generally  proves  most  acceptable, 
but  to  have  it  in  perfection  it  is  necessary  that  the  pan  should  be 
very  hot,  the  cooking  done  quickly,  and  the  dish  served  just  as 
soon  as  it  is  ready.  The  steak  may  be  from  the  round,  but  must 
be  juicy.  Scrape  off  with  a  knife  or  spoon  enough  to  make  a 
cake  of  small  size,  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Take 
some  of  the  meat  from  which  you  have  scraped  the  material  for 
this  cake  and  cut  it  into  pieces  about  an  inch  or  two  sqaure. 
Have  at  hand  a  very  hot  frying-pan  and  sear  your  pieces  of 
meat  on  it.  Having  done  this,  put  the  meat  in  a  lemon-squeezer 
and  squeeze  the  juice  out  on  the  scraped  beef.  Now  mix  this 
beef  and  the  juice  together  until  you  can  shape  it  into  a  cake, 
taking  care  that  you  have  a  clean  frying-pan  very  hot.  Put  in 
the  cake  and  turn  it  once  or  twice  with  a  pancake  lifter.  Have 


194  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

ready  two  hot  plates.  Put  the  cake  on  one,  add  salt,  pepper  and 
butter,  garnish  with  parsley  and  cover  with  the  second  hot  plate. 
Serve  without  delay. 

CLAM  BROTH. 

One  quart  of  clams,  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water,  one-half 
cupful  of  milk.  It  is  best  to  use  the  long-neck  clams,  as  the 
round  ones  have  not  the  same  delicate  flavor.  Wash  them 
thoroughly  in  cold  water;  then  put  them  in  a  stewpan  and  add 
the  half  cupful  of  cold  water.  Let  them  boil  up  quickly  for  five 
minutes ;  then  drain  off  the  juice  and  strain  it  through  a  cheese- 
cloth. Put  in  a  clean  saucepan,  and,  after  adding  the  milk,  let 
it  heat  just  to  the  boiling  point.  It  should  be  served  immedi- 
ately, as  it  \vill  lose  a  part  of  its  flavor  by  standing  or  by  being 
reheated.  It  is  well  to  serve  it  in  a  bouillon-cup  with  unsweet- 
ened wafers. 

MAPLE  CUP  CUSTARD. 

One-half  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  sweet  cream,  one 
egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  maple  sugar.  With  the  quantities  of 
ingredients  mentioned  above  two  cups  of  delicious  custard  may 
be  made.  The  sugar  should  be  scraped  from  the  cake  and  then 
measured.  After  beating  the  egg  and  sugar  together  thor- 
oughly add  the  milk  and  cream.  Then  fill  the  cups,  setting 
them  in  a  dish  of  hot  water,  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  cus- 
tard set — say,  about  forty  minutes.  Take  a  little  care  and  the 
result  will  be  perfectly  satisfactory. 

DATES  WITH  CREAM. 

Wash  a  few  dates  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  and,  after 
removing  the  stones,  cut  each  date  into  two  or  three  pieces, 
using  a  sharp  knife.  Place  in  a  small  bowl  and  add  enough 
cold  water  to  soak  them  well.  Set  this  over  a  tea-kettle  of 
boiling  water  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  so  that  the  dates  will 
swell  and  become  soft  and  tender.  When  ready  to  serve,  add 
sufficient  cream  or  milk  to  take  away  the  over-swreet  taste. 

GRUEL. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  yellow  cornmeal.  You  will  need  to  have  rather  a  generous 
measure  of  milk.  Put  half  a  cupful  aside,  and  heat  the  rest  in 
a  double  boiler.  When  it  has  become  scalding  hot  stir  into  it 
the  flour  and  cornmeal  made  smooth  with  the  cold  milk  you  re- 
served. Stir  occasionally  while  it  cooks  for  two  hours,  and  be- 
fore straining  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  The  long  cooking  is  the 
secret  of  success  in  preparing  this  gruel. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  195 

BEEF  JUICE. 

Cut  one  pound  beef  into  small  cubes,  place  in  an  earthen  bowl, 
keeping  at  medium  heat  for  twelve  hours.  When  the  juice  has 
been  extracted,  clarify  with  boiling  water  and  salt  to  taste. — 
Miss  Tomasito  J.  Jinso,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SCALLOPED    OYSTERS. 

Six  oysters,  grated  breadcrumbs,  butter,  seasoning.  Of 
course  you  must  be  very  particular  to  see  that  the  oysters  are 
nice  and  fresh.  Beard  them  and  take  away  the  muscle;  then, 
after  covering  a  small  saucer  with  the  bread-crumbs,  which 
should  be  fine,  put  the  oysters  on  the  crumbs  and  season  with  a 
very  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Add  a  few  drops  of  good 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice  to  the  oysters ;  then  cover  with  the  bread- 
crumbs and  dot  with  tiny  pieces  of  butter.  Cook  for  five  min- 
utes in  a  quick  oven,  or  until  the  crumbs  have  turned  a  light 
brown.  The  beard  or  frill  of  the  oyster  when  cooked  curls  up 
into  a  hard,  rather  indigestible  piece,  and  spoils  the  delicate 
flavor  of  the  dish.  That  is  why  it  should  be  removed  at  the 
very  start. 

CREAM  PUNCH. 

One-half  teacupful  of  fresh  milk,  one-half  teacupful  of  cream, 
one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  one  egg.  Put  the  milk  into  a  pint  pre- 
serving-jar and  add  the  egg,  cream  and  sugar.  Fasten  the  top 
on  the  jar  carefully,  and  shake  well  for  a  couple  of  minutes; 
then  pour  into  a  glass  and  serve  immediately.  In  cases  of  ty- 
phoid fever  you  should  take  especial  care  to  leave  out  the  yolk 
of  the  egg  unless  the  attending  physician  says  it  would  be  per- 
fectly proper  to  give  it  to  the  patient. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

One-fourth  cupful  of  tapioca,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  egg,  salt.  The  tapioca  should  be  mea- 
sured rather  scantily,  and  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  the  milk,  and  cook  for  one  hour  in  a 
double  boiler;  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  sugar,  which 
should  be  measured  level  and  beaten  with  the  yolk  of  the  egg. 
Stir  for  one  minute,  then  take  from  the  fire.  When  the  pudding 
is  almost  cold,  beat  the  white  of  the  egg  quite  stiff  and  fold  it  in. 
Flavor  to  taste. 

RAW  BEEF   SANDWICH 

A  small  piece  of  steak,  two  slices  of  bread,  butter,  seasoning. 
Sandwiches  made  in  this  way  taste  good  and  are  quite  nourish- 
ing. Usually  the  patient  has  no  idea  that  the  meat  has  not  been 


196  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

cooked.  Lay  the  steak  on  a  board  and  scrape  both  sides  with  a 
dull  knife,  leaving  the  tough  sinews.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Toast  two  slices  of  bread,  and  when  you  have  buttered 
them  spread  the  scraped  meat  on  the  toast.  Turn  the  two  slices 
together  like  a  sandwich,  cut  them  in  strips,  place  them  in  the 
oven  for  a  minute  and  then  serve. 

CREAM   OF   CELERY   SOUP. 

.One  pint  of  chicken  or  veal  stock,  one  bunch  of  celery,  one 
small  piece  of  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour,  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  cream,  salt  and 
pepper.  With  these  ingredients  enough  soup  may  be  made  to 
serve  one  person  three  or  four  times.  After  cleaning  the  celery 
cut  both  it  and  the  onion  fine.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  the 
stock  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Beat  the  butter 
and  flour  to  a  smooth,  light  cream.  Stir  into  this  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  the  stock ;  then  add  this  mixture  to  the  soup.  Boil  for 
ten  minutes  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Return  it  to  the  sauce- 
pan and  add  the  milk.  When  this  boils  add  the  cream  and  heat 
the  soup  just  to  the  boiling  point.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve  at  once.  In  case  you  intend  to  serve  the  soup 
several  times  return  to  the  saucepan  only  half  a  cupful  .of  the 
strained  soup,  adding  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  each  of  milk  and 
cream  and  heating  to  the  boiling  point.  The  remainder  of  the 
soup  may  be  kept  in  a  cold  place.  Milk  and  cream  being  added 
and  the  soup  heated  when  required. 

TOMATO   SOUP. 

One  cupful  of  tomatoes,  butter,  tiny  pinch  of  soda, 
one  cupful  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Strain  the  cupful  of 
tomatoes  through  a  fine  sieve  in  order  to  get  rid  of  all  the  fiber 
and  seeds.  Pour  the  liquid  into  a  granite  kettle  and  add  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of 'a  walnut.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point.  Add 
the  soda,  stirring  well ;  and  when  the  tomato  stops  foaming  add 
a  cupful  of  hot  milk  and  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  your  taste.  If 
you  like,  a  tablespoonful  of  cracker  crumbs  may  be  added  also. 
Serve  at  once. 

BEEP   TEA. 

One  pound  of  round  steak,  one  and  one-fourth  pints  of  cold 
water,  seasoning.  It  is  best  to  have  the  meat  from  the  hind 
quarter.  Beat  it  thin.  Let  an  ungreased  skillet  or  frying-pan 
get  smoking  hot,  and  lay  the  beef  in  it  for  a  few  minutes,  until 
it  turns  whitish  on  the  under  side ;  then  turn  it  over  and  let  the 
other  side  get  in  the  same  condition.  When  this  has  been  done 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  197 

remove  it  from  the  fire  at  once.  Cut  it  in  small  pieces,  and, 
covering  it  with  the  cold  water,  cook  it  at  the  back  of  the  stove, 
where  it  will  be  just  below  the  boiling  point,  for  three  of  four 
hours.  Salt  to  taste.  If  you  wish  the  broth  very  delicate 
remove  the  bone  before  simmering  the  beef. 

ALBUMEN  WATER. 

Whites  of  two  fresh  eggs,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  cracked  ice. 
During  convalescence  the  doctor  often  orders  eggs,  eggs,  eggs, 
and  sometimes  it  is  difficult  to  induce  the  patient  to  accept  them. 
As  is  frequently  the  case  that  the  white  of  the  egg  is  the  part 
which  is  most  desirable  for  the  patient,  the  following  recipe 
may  be  used  when  everything  else  has  failed  :  Put  the  unshaken 
whites  of  two  fresh  eggs  in  a  lemonade-glass.  Add  the  lemon 
juice  and  put  in  enough  cracked  ice  to  make  the  glass  half  full. 
Sweeten  with  especial  care,  as  patients  generally  make  more 
objection  to  too  much  sugar  than  too  little.  Place  a  shaker 
over  the  glass  and  shake  until  the  whites  are  thoroughly  broken 
up,  but  not  too  foamy.  Put  in  enough  cold  water  to  fill  the  glass 
and  give  to  the  patient  at  once. 


198  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


JAMS  AND  JELLIES 


"Sweets  to  the  Sweet." 
GRAPE  CONSERVE. 

Five  pounds  grapes,  five  pounds  sugar,  one  pound  seedless 
raisins,  four  oranges.  Cook  pulp  of  grapes  and  remove  seeds. 
Remove  peel  and  seed  of  oranges  and  cut  fine.  Mix  pulp  and 
skins  of  grapes,  oranges  and  chopped  peel,  raisins  and  sugar. 
Cook  one-half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Do  not  use  any 
water. — Mrs.  Don  Reed,  Harper,  Kans. 

GRAPE   CONSERVE. 

Three  pounds  Concord  grapes,  stemmed.  Pulp  and  cook, 
then  run  through  a  sieve  to  take  out  seeds.  To  this  pulp  add 
skins,  and  three  pounds  granulated  sugar,  three  oranges  chop- 
ped fine,  one  teacup  chopped  English  walnuts.  Cook  all  to- 
gether until  thick  like  grape  butter. — Mrs.  Julia  S.  Peet,  Mon- 
ticello,  Ind. 

PLUM    CONSERVE. 

Four  quarts  of  plums,  six  oranges  sliced  thin,  one  pound 
seeded  raisins  chopped,  one  pound  chopped  walnuts,  one  pound 
sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Cook  until  thick. — Mrs.  A.  G. 
Rounseville,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MATRIMONIAL  JAM. 

One  pound  plums,  one  pound  apples,  one  pound  pears,  three 
pounds  sugar,  ginger  root  to  taste.  Boil  all  together  one  hour, 
and  put  in  glasses  like  jelly. — Miss  Filer,  Manistee,  Mich. 

CURRANT  AND  ORANGE  JAM. 

Five  pounds  currants,  five  pounds  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  seeded  raisins,  four  oranges  chopped,  rind  and  all. 
Cook  twenty  minutes  after  it  begins  to  boil. — Mrs.  Henry 
Marsh,  Manistee,  Mich. 

ORANGE-CTJRRANT-RAISIN    JAM. 

Five  oranges,  three  quarts  currant  juice,  two  pounds  chop- 
ped raisins,  grate  rind  of  oranges  and  use  pulp;  five  pounds 
sugar.  Simmer  six  hours. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Cole,  Middletown, 
Conn. 

GRAPE    MARMALADE. 

Four  pounds  pulped  grapes,  two  pounds  sugar,  four  oranges 
chopped,  one  pound  raisins.  Cook  till  thick. — Mrs.  T.  A.  Bar- 
ney, New  Haven,  Conn. 


200  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Six  oranges  sliced  fine,  six  pints  of  water.  Let  this  stand 
twenty-four  hours,  then  boil  forty-five  minutes.  When  this 
stands  twenty-four  hours  add  one  pint  of  liquid  and  boil  two 
and  one-half  hours.  When  almost  cooked  add  the  juice  of  one 
lemon  to  every  four  or  five  oranges-. — Mrs.  Jas.  S.  Elder, 
Mayer,  Ariz. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Select  nice  fresh  fruit  and  slice  very  thin,  skins  and  all ;  one 
orange,  one  lemon,  and  one  grape  fruit,  omitting  part  of  the 
rind  of  the  grape  fruit.  Measure  and  add  three  times  the 
amount  of  water.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  bring  to 
a  boil  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Let  stand  another  twenty-four 
hours,  then  measure  and  add  equal  amount  of  sugar  and  boil 
till  it  jellies. — Mrs.  Fred  Ferguson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Select  fresh,  plump,  heavy  fruit.  \Vash,  discard  tips  and 
stems,  slice  in  pieces  about  one-eighth  inch  thick  and  one  to  two 
inches  long.  Put  into  granite  preserving  kettle,  add  the  water. 
Set  in  cool  place  twenty-four  hours.  Second  day  divide  into 
two  kettles,  place  over  a  hot  fire,  boil  briskly  until  the  peel  is 
perfectly  tender.  Set  aside  twenty-four  hours.  .  Third  day 
measure  the  fruit,  return  to  the  two  kettles,  bring  to  boiling 
point,  add  equal  measure  of  sugar,  boil  briskly  about  two  min- 
utes or  until  it  drops  thickly  from  a  spoon  as  any  jelly.  This 
receipt  calls  for  three  good  sized  oranges,  one  and  one-half 
good  sized  lemons  and  three  quarts  water  with  sugar. — Mrs. 
W.  T.  Mayfield,  Denver,  Colo. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Equal  weight  of  oranges  and  sugar.  Grate  the  yellow  peel 
off  half  the  oranges.  Peel  the  yellow  off  other  half  and  cut  in 
small  strips.  Boil  the  cut  peel  in  three  different  waters  till  ten- 
der. After  removing  all  the  tough  white  sk'in  cut  the  pulp  in 
small  pieces.  Put  this  in  a  colander  and  let  juice  run  through 
on  the  sugar.  Boil  sugar  for  about  ten  minutes,  adding  a  little 
water  it  necessary ;  skim  well  and  then  add  the  pulp  and  grated 
peel ;  after  boiling  six  minutes  add  the  cut  peel  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes.  If  oranges  are  very  sweet  add  before  cooking,  the 
juice  of  two  or  three  lemons  or  grape  fruit.  Put  in  jelly 
glasses.  It  grows  better  with  age. — Mrs.  Charles  O.  Lacy, 
Seattle,  Wash. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  201 

ORANGE   MARMALADE. 

Boil  seven  oranges  and  five  lemons  until  a  straw  will  pierce 
them.  Throw  away  the  water,  open  the  fruit,  take  out  the  pulp, 
removing  every  seed.  Cut  the  rind  in  very  small  slivers  and  add 
to  the  pulp.  To  two  pounds  of  this  add  three  pounds  of 'white 
sugar  and  boil  until  clear. — Mrs.  Wm.  Hay  ward,  Los  An- 
geles, Calif. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Slice  six  oranges  and  three  lemons  very  thin,  rejecting  rough 
ends  and  seeds.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  water.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Boil  gently 
until  skins  are  tender.  Let  stand  another  twenty-four  hours. 
Then  to  each  pound  of  mixture  add  one  and  one-half  pounds 
sugar.  Cook  until  syrup  jellies  and  skins  are  transparent.. 
Makes  twenty-four  glasses. — Mrs.  F.  W.  Sisson,  Lolomai 
Lodge,  Oak  Creek,  Ariz. 

PINEAPPLE    MARMALADE. 

Peel,  core  and  shred  the  pineapple 'and  allow  a  pound  of 
granulated  sugar  to  each  pound  of  the  fruit.  Mix  well  and 
let  stand  over  night  in  a  preserving  kettle.  In  the  morning  let 
it  boil  slowly  or  simmer  for  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour  or 
until  clear  and  amber  colored.  Put  in  small  glass  jars. — 
Mrs.  Fred  Ferguson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PINEAPPLE    MARMALADE. 

Peel,  core  and  grate  the  pineapple,  weigh,  and  allow  a  pound 
of  granulated  sugar  to  a  pound  of  the  fruit.  Mix  well  and  let 
stand  in  the  preserving  kettle  over  night.  Boil  or  simmer  half 
or  three-quarters  of  an  hour  until  clear  and  amber  colored. 
Cool  and  put  in  jars.  Fine. — Miss  Clara  Stuntz,  Madison, 
N.  J. 

PRESERVED  TOMATOES. 

Seven  pounds  tomatoes,  six  pounds  sugar,  juice  of  three 
lemons.  Peel  tomatoes  and  let  all  stand  together  over  night. 
Drain  off  all  the  syrup  and  boil,  skimming  it  well,  then  put  in 
the  tomatoes  and  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Take  out  the 
tomatoes  with  skimmer  and  spread  on  dishes  to  cool.  Boil 
syrup  till  thick,  put  tomatoes  in  jars  and  fill  with  syrup. — Mrs. 
A.  O.  Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 

FINE  JELLY. 

One  quart  red  currant  juice  and  one  pint  strawberry  juice 
mixed,  use  equal  parts  of  juice  and  sugar,  boil. — Mrs.  Lloyd, 
Sedro-Wooley,  Wash. 


202  I  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

APPLES  IN   JELLY. 

Use  only  rich,  red  apples,  that  are  tart.  Boil  together  two 
cups  of  sugar  in  one  cup  of  water  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Quar- 
ter the  unpared  apples  and  drop  into  .the  hot  syrup.  Cook  until 
clear.  Remove  the  apples  to  a  glass  dish.  Boil  the  syrup  until 
it  is  a  jelly,  and  flavor  with  lemon  juice.  When  partly  cool, 
pour  the  syrup  over  the  apples  and  stand  away  in  a  cool  place. 
A  bit  of  lemon  rind  cooked  with  the  apples  adds  to  the  dish  if 
one  is  careful  to  remove  the  inner  bitter  part. — Mrs.  Robert 
Finnic,  Soda  Springs,  Ariz. 

CHERRY  JELLY. 

Drain  a  can  of  preserved  cherries.  Put  the  fruit  in  a  mould 
and  add  one  tablespoon  gelatine  to  a  large  pint  of  juice 
(heated).  Pour  over  cherries  and  set  on  ice.  If  necessary, 
add  more  sugar.  Serve  with  cream. — J.  W.  Baylis,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Select  and  wash  cranberries.  Put  in  preserving  ketle  with 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them  and  boil  twenty  minutes 
or  more.  Remove  from  fire  and  strain  while  hot.  To  one 
quart  of  the  liquid  add  two  cupfuls  sugar.  Boil  good  fifteen 
minutes.  Strain  hot  through  cheesecloth  into  moulds  to  cool. 
—Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

GRAPE   JELLY. 

One  quart  wild  grape  juice  to  one  quart  sugar.  Boil  about 
twenty  minutes.  Have  grapes  part  green  and  part  ripe. — Miss 
Rose  B.  Cantelo,  Lolomai  Lodge,  Oak  Creek  Canyon,  Ariz. 

LEMON    JELLY. 

Grate  the  rind  of  two  lemons ;  juice  of  two  lemons,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Put  in  double  boiler,  stir  well, 
cook  till  thick.  Will  keep  three  weeks. — Mrs.  W.  Patterson, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

MINT  JELLY. 

Wash  a  handful  of  mint  leaves  and  boil  in  a  pint  of  water. 
When  the  flavor  is  extracted,  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  cup  of  vine- 
gar, salt,  a  dash  of  paprika,  one-fourth  package  of  gelatine 
dissolved  in  cold  water.  Strain,  pour  into  a  mould.  Let  stand 
to  harden.  Serve  with  lamb. — Mrs.  D.  J.  Brannen,  Oceanside, 
Calif. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  203 

TOMATO    JELLY. 

Three- fourths  box  gelatine  (scant  measure),  three- fourths 
cup  cold  water,  one  can  tomatoes,  one-half  of  an  onion,  one 
stalk  celery,  two  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  a  few  grains  cayenne. 
Soften  the  gelatine  five  minutes  in  the  water.  Cook  together 
the  other  ingredients — excepting  the  vinegar — ten  minutes. 
Add  the  vinegar  and  softened  genatine.,  stirring  until  dissolved, 
and  then  strain.  Pour  into  a  mould.  This  jelly  may  be  used 
for  meats,  as  a  salad  or  cut  as  desired,  and  used  as  a  garnish. 
—Mrs.  Jos  S.  Amundsen,  Williams,  Ariz. 

TOMATO    JELLY. 

Drain  the  liquid  from  one  can  of  tomatoes;  to  this  juice  add 
one  box  of  gelatine.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  sugar 
and  lemon  juice.  Set  aside  until  the  liquid  jellies. — Miss  Bertha 
Peet,  Monticello,  Ind. 

SPICED  GREEN  GRAPE  JELLY  (To  Serve  with  Meat). 

Use  grapes  which  are  colored,  but  under  ripe,  picked  from 
the  stems.  Eight  quarts  of  grapes,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  two 
ounces  of  cinnamon  bark,  one  ounce  of  whole  cloves.  Cook 
well,  strain,  let  stand  over  night,  strain  again.  To  one  pint  of 
juice  use  one  pint  of  sugar. — Miss  Rose  B.  Cantels,  Lolomai 
Lodge,  Oak  Creek,  Canyon,  Ariz. 


204  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


MEATS] 


Broiled  meats  should  be  placed  on  a  hot  broiler,  over  red  hot 
coals  free  from  smoke,  giving  out  a  good  heat,  but  not  too 
brisk,  or  the  meat  will  be  hardened  and  scorched.  Again,  if 
the  fire  and  coals  are  too  low,  the  gravy  will  escape  on  the 
coals,  creating  a  blaze  and  blackening  the  meat.  When  both 
sides  are  broiled,  lay  on  hot  dish,  butter,  and  serve  hot. 

When  roasting  beef,  have  a  good  brisk  fire,  in  order  to 
retain  the  juices.  If  the  beef  is  tough,  it  will  take  longer  with 
a  slower  fire.  Roasts  should  be  put  in  the  baking  pan  with 
very  little  water  using  suet  under  the  roast  and  browned  flour 
and  suet  on  top.  Baste  frequently.  Or  roast  in  a  patent 
roasting  pan. 

Boiling  meat  should  be  put  in  hot  water  to  retain  the  juices 
and  kept  boiling  until  done.  When  a  scum  rises,  skim  off  or  it 
will  boil  into  the  meat  and  discolor  it.  Salt  meat  takes  longer 
to  boil  and  should  be  put  in  cold  water.  When  boiling  mutton 
or  veal  for  stew,  put  it  in  hot  water  to  cook.  Soup  bone  must 
always  be  put  in  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly. 

L,amb,  mutton,  veal  arid  pork  should  be  cooked  slower  than 
beef.  An  onion  sliced  and  put  on  the  top  of  roasts — especially 
pork,  gives  it  a  nice  flavor. 

Frying  meats  should  be  put  in  the  skillet  with  little  hot  butter 
or  fat.  Many  people  emerge  the  meats  in  hot  lard. 

"How  many  ways  can  you  serve  meat?" 

"Three,  mum!" 

"What  are  they?" 

"Well  done,  rare  and  raw!" 

BACON  COOKED  IN  THE  OVEN. 

Lay  the  bacon,  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  on  a  double  broiler, 
close  the  broiler,  and  set  it  in  a  moderate  oven  over  a  dripping 
pan.  Let  it  cook  until  a  delicate  brown  and  crisp.  Serve  at 
once. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SCRAMBLED  BRAINS. 

Place  in  cold  water  three  or  four  sets  of  sheep  brains  till  all 
the  blood  is  drawn  out.  Remove  all  skin.  Put  in  sauce  pan  to 
boil,  add  an  onion,  garlic,  small  garden  boquet,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Boil  well  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  off  all  water  and 
put  in  a  hot  dish.  Have  a  frying  pan  red  hot  and  throw  in 
two  good  tablespoon fuls  butter,  brown  nicely,  then  add  one 


206  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

teaspoonful  vinegar.  Pour  this  over  the  brains.  Serve  hot. 
From  what  is  left  over,  delicious  brain  fritters  can  be  made. 
—Contributed,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

CALF'S  BKAINS. 

Place  three  calf's  brains  in  cold  water,  and  then  peel  off  the 
skins.  .  Wash  again  in  cold  wateV  and  dry.  Put  in  sauce  pan 
and  cover  with  cold  water.  Add  salt,  one-half  cupful  vinegar, 
one  sliced  carrot,  thyme,  bay  leaf,  twelve  unground  pepper 
seeds.  Boil  ten  minutes,  drain  well.  Cut  each  brain  in  two. 
Dress  platter  with  parsley.  Serve  hot.  Or  put  black  butter, 
or  tartar  sauce  over  platter. 

Butcher,  to  boy — "I  say,  Pat.  have  you  delivered  Mr.  Smith's  joint, 
and  Mrs.  Jones's  ribs?" 

"Yes,  sir." 

"That's  right.  Don't  forget  to  cut  off  Mrs.  Brown's  skirts,  and  weigh 
Mrs.  O'Malley's  pigs'  feet." 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

Three  pounds  pot  roast,  two  medium  sized  onions,  one-half 
dozen  carrots,  one-half  dozen  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper.  An 
iron  kettle  is  preferable.  Put  butter  in  kettle  and  when  hot 
place  the  roast  in  and  let  it  brown  on  both  sides.  Then  add 
sufficient  water  from  time  to  time  to  keep  it  simmering. 
When  half  done  put  the  carrots  in  that  have  been  prepared  by 
scraping  and  cutting  lengthwise.  Put  in  the  onions  (sliced  or 
whole)  with  the  carrots.  When  these  are  nearly  done,  add 
the  prepared  potatoes  cut  lengthwise.  After  the  meat  and 
vegetables  have  been  removed  add  flour  to  liquid  which  makes 
a  delicious  gravy. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Duffield,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BEEF  LiOAF. 

Two  pounds  of  rare  beef  and  one-fourth  pound  of  salt  pork 
chopped  fine,  then  crackers  rolled  and  sifted,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  one  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  these  together  and  make 
into  a  loaf,  roast  and  baste  like  other  meats. — Mrs.  E.  Pallett, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

BEEF  L<OAF. 

Grind  fine  three  pounds  of  beef,  add  one  onion  minced,  six 
slices  of  dry  bread  crumbed  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  celery 
salt,  sage  and  ground  chili,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  then  cut 
several  pieces  of  salt  pork  about  four  inches  long  a  half  inch 
thick  and  one  inch  wide,  place  over  the  loaf,  cover  and  cook  in 
the  oven  for  about  one  hour  and  a  half,  then  remove  cover 
and  brown,  serve  hot.  It  is  also  very  nice  to  slice  cold. — Mrs. 
R.  S.  Teeple,  Holbrook,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  207 

BEEF  LOAF. 

Three  pounds  round  steak,  ten  cents  worth  of  lean  pork, 
four  crackers  rolled  fine,  two  eggs  beaten  up  to  a  froth,  salt 
and  pepepr  to  taste.  Onion  may  be  added  if  preferred.  Cook 
one  and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.  F.  Machleb,  Anaheim,  Calif. 

BEEF  LOAF. 

Grind  very  fine  one  pound  of  round  steak,  three  slices  of 
stale  bread  and  a  little  onion,  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  one  cup 
of  milk,  small  piece  of  pork  (ground),  butter  size  of  walnut, 
salt,  pepper,  sage  to  taste.  Bake  an  hour.  Baste  frequently. 
—Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Coles,  Middletown,  Conn. 

BEEFSTEAK,  THICK. 

Cut  in  strips,  pound,  lay  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Have 
plenty  of  suet  very  hot.  Press  meat  in  flour  and  fry  brown 
without  salt.  This  is  fine. — Miss  Retta  Beasley,  Flagstaff, 
Ariz. 

SMOTHERED  BEEFSTEAK  AND  VEGETABLES. 

Place  a  steak  in  roaster  and  cover  with  enough  carrots,  po- 
tatoes and  turnips  cut  in  dice  for  the  meal,  one  onion  sliced 
thin,  salt  and  roast  all  as  a  four  pound  roast  of  beef. — Mrs. 
LvOyd,  Sedro  Woolley,  Wash. 

SPANISH    BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut  a  round  beefsteak  two  inches  thick.  Broil  over  the  coals 
allowing  ten  minutes  to  a  side  and  turning  but  once.  Before 
putting  in  the  broiler  dip  the  steak  in  olive  oil.  Place  in  a 
baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with  a  layer 
of  sliced  onions  and  again  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Bake 
in  oven  ten  minutes,  cover  with  chopped  tomatoes  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes  and  cover  with  grated  cheese.  Allow  cheese  to 
melt  and  brown.  If  you  have  large  earthen  platter  the  steak 
should  be  baked  on  this  and  served  in  sauce. — Mrs.  W.  D. 
Finney,  Williams  Ariz. 

BROWN    RIBS    OF    BEEF. 

Boil  ribs  about  four  hours,  then  put  in  baking  pan,  slice 
around  them  aboilt  half  inch  thick  several  small  onions,  pota- 
toes and  carrots ;  baste  with  the  liquor  you  have  boiled  the  ribs 
in  and  season  with  salt,  peper  and  Hungarian  paprika. — Mrs. 
R.  S.  Teeple.  Holbrook,  Ariz. 


208  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

ROAST  BEEF  WITH  YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

Mix  one  pint  sweet  milk,  four  eggs  well  beaten,  two  scant 
cupfuls  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt.  About  an  hour  before  the 
roast  is  baked,  pour  off  the  fat  from  the  baking  pan,  leaving 
just  enough  to  keep  batter  from  sticking  to  the  pan.  Pour  in 
the  batter.  Put  the  oven  grate  over  baking  pan,  and  place 
roast  on  it,  allowing  the  drippings  to  fall  on  the  batter  below. 
Oven  should  be  brisk.  Baste  roast  frequently  with  fat  taken 
from  pan  and  kept  hot  on  the  top  of  the  range.— Contributed, 
Saginaw,  Mich. 

DELICIOUS  ROAST  BEEF. 

Heat  the  baking  pan  hot,  then  put  in  beef  and  let  it  brown 
well,  turn  over  and  sear  the  sides  thoroughly.  This  method 
retains  the  juices  in  the  meat,  then  put  in  the  pan  and  bake  until 
done,  basting  as  necessary.  The  inside  will  be  pink  and  juicy. 
— Mrs.  George  Raney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

YORKSHIRE    PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  well  beaten 
eggs,  salt  and  a  pinch  of  baking  powder.  A  pint  of  water  may 
be  used  instead  of  milk  in  which  case  one  tablespoonful  of 
dripping  may  be  used.  Mix  this  batter  smoothly,  adding  the 
eggs  last.  Instead  of  pouring  the  batter  into  the  pan  with 
roast  it  will  be  found  an  easier  method  at  times  to  bake  the 
pudding  separately  in  a  broad  shallow  pan  for  twenty  minutes, 
cutting  in  squares  and  serving  with  the  meat  on  top,  and  the 
gravy  separating. — Mrs.  George  Raney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

"Oh!      The  roast  beef  of  England, 
And  Oh — The  Old  English  roast  beef." 

— Fielding. 

CANNIBAL. 

Take  one  pound  of  top  round  or  sirloin  steak  and  remove 
all  sinews  and  fat,  chop  very  fine  with  sharp  knife  or  cleaver 
(do  not  grind).  Chop  one-half  pound  of  dry  onions,  one  pod 
of  green  chili,  one  lettuce  leaf,  one  ripe  tomato  and  add  one 
raw  egg,  salt  freely  and  sprinkle  with  tobasco  sauce  and  white 
pepper,  mix  well.  Lay  on  platter  and  check  with  knife.  Gar- 
nish with  sliced  lemon  and  lettuce  leaves.  To  be  served  di- 
rectly after  making  with  crackers  or  rye  bread. — Abb  Willson, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

CHILI   COX    CARXE. 

Get  four  pounds  ribs  of  beef,  cut  small,  boil  until 
tender ;  then  add  one  can  tomatoes,  one  large  carrot,  one  large 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  209 

onion  chopped  fine,  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  fill  chili  (or  cayenne  pepper  to  taste),  salt. 
Boil  all  together;  serve  hot. — ^Mrs.  D.  Roberts,  Yuma, 
Ariz. 

VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  veal,  roll  in  wheat  flour,  then  well 
beaten  eggs  and  last  in  seasoned  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot, 
unsalted  butter. — Miss  Helen  T.  Dillman,  Dillman  Ranch, 
Ariz. 

BOILED    BEEF    FLAXK. 

Take  about  four  and  one-half  pounds  of  beef  flank,  wash, 
salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  a  little  cloves  on  it,  then  roll  and 
tie  up.  Boil  until  tender ;  when  done,  press  between  weights, 
and  serve  cold. — Mrs.  Martin  Buggeln,  Williams,  Ariz. 

A  boil  in  the  pot  is  worth  two  on  the  neck. 
BOILED    HAM. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  ham  and  when  cool  enough 
wash  and  scrape  or  use  brush  to  remove  all  mold  and  dust. 
Then  steam  for  six  or  seven  hours,  or  until  tender  when  pierced 
with  a  fork.  When  done  take  out  and  place  into  a  baking  pan 
to  skin.  Dip  the  hands  in  cold  water,  take  the  skin  between 
the  fingers  and  peel  like  an  orange.  Set  in  moderate  oven, 
placing  the  lean  side  downward.  Over  the  ham  sift  rolled 
crackers  or  dried  bread  crumbs  and  bake  a  short  time.  If  the 
ham  is  very  salty  soak  over  night  in  water.  Serve  hot  with 
mustard  or  horseradish  sauce.  Garnish  with  nasturtium  leaves 
and  blossoms,  or  sprigs  of  parsley. — Contributed,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

DELICATE  HAM. 

Take  a  thick  slice  of  raw  ham,  blend  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
brown  sugar  and  mustard,  rub  into  the  ham,  cover  with  one  cup 
of  milk  and  bake  one  hour  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Brennan, 
Oceanside,  Calif. 

MOLDED    HAM. 

Take  a  large  cupful  of  prepared  ham.  add  the  yolk  of  one 
egg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  marjoram.  When  well  mixed,  press 
into  a  bowl,  then  turn  out  into  a  baking  pan.  Sift  over  fine 
crumbs,  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  top  and  bake  until  brown. 
Serve  on  a  warm  dish  with  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  L.  B.  Parish, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

McGuire — "How  did  he  make  all  his  money?" 
Rafferty — "Smoking;  he  was  the  greatest  smoker  in  America." 
McGuire — "Dry  up,  Rafferty,  you  can't  make  money  by  smoking." 
Rafferty — "He  did;   he  smoked  hams." 


210  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

BAKED  HASH. 

One  cup  ground  ham,  one  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
tablespoon  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  milk  and  flour 
and  butter  together,  then  take  from  fire,  stir  in  meat.  Beat  two 
eggs  (yolks  and  whites  separately),  then  mix  all  together  well. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  McDonald  Robinson,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

BAKED  HEART. 

Now  that  the  price  of  meat  has  gone  past  the  contents  of 
most  purses,  it  is  well  to  secure  the  most  one  can  for  the  money 
expended.  An  ordinary  beef  heart,  if  properly  prepared,  makes 
a  tasty  dinner  for  a  number  of  persons.  There  is  no  waste  to  a 
heart  and  the  scales  are  not  weighed  down  by  bone.  First, 
soak  the  heart  for  about  twelve  hours  in  salted  water  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar  added.  Wash  and  drain.  Put  on 
stove  with  enough  water  to  cover  and  let  boil  for  about  half 
an  hour.  Remove  while  boiling  hard,  and  without  lifting 
cover  put  in  fireless  cooker  for  from  eight  to  twelve  hours 
according  to  the  age  of  the  beef.  If  twelve  hours  is  needed,  it 
is  better  to  reheat  once  during  that  time.  Or,  simmer  on 
stove  for  five  hours.  Nowr,  make  a  dressing  as  for  a  fowl 
and  stuff  the  heart  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  Set  the 
liquor  away  to  cool,  skim  and  use  for  soup  stock. — Mrs.  J.  V. 
Roach,  Wisconsin. 

STUFFED    HEART. 

Make  the  stuffing  of  dry  bread  moisted  with  warm  water. 
Add  chopped  onion,  chopped  raw  pork,  butter  size  of  an  egg 
(melted),  one  beaten  egg.  Mix  well  and  stuff  the  well 
washed  heart.  Sew  up  the  opening  as  much  as  possible. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  two  hours. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

LIVER   (GERMAN  STYLE). 

Three  slices  of  bacon  cut  into  little  squares,  put  in  skillet 
and  brown.  When  brown  take  two  onions,  sliced,  and  fry 
with  bacon.  One  pound  of  liver  and  cut  into  small  squares, 
pour  water  over  liver  and  drain.  Place  liver  with  bacon 
and  onions  and  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes.  Then  add  table- 
spoon flour  and  let  it  brown.  Put  in  sufficient  water  to  make 
a  gravy.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Duffield, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  211 

CALF'S   LIVER. 

Slice  nicely,  wash  and  wipe  dry,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in 
cracker  crumbs,  fry  nice  light  brown.  Use  part  butter  and 
part  cottolene.  Equal  to  fried  oysters. — Mrs.  Otto  Lebsch, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

LAMB  FRIES. 

Skin  six  medium  sized  lamb  fries :  Cut  into  three  or  four 
slices.  Put  them  in  a  bowl,  season  with  tablespoonful  salt, 
little  cayenne,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  tablespoonful  sweet  oil, 
teaspoonful  ground  mustard.  Mix  well  together,  roll  lightly 
in  flour,  and  broil  five  to  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Of 
they  can  be  fried  in  hot  butter.  Serve  on  hot  platter  garnished 
with  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley,  with  hot  tomato  sauce. — Con- 
tributed, Williams,  Ariz. 

BAKED  LEG  OF  LAMB. 

Take  a  four  or  five  pound  leg  of  lamb,  cut  down  the  under 
side  and  remove  the  bone ;  fill  it  with  a  dressing  made  of  four 
ounces  of  suet,  two  ounces  of  chopped  ham,  six  ounces  of 
stale  bread,  two  eggs,  one  small  onion,  season  to  taste  with 
salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  parsley.  A  small  piece  of  bay  leaf  in  the 
pan  makes  a  fine  flavor  for  the  gravy. — W.  O.  Perkins,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

LAMB  PIQUANT. 

Lamb  piquante  may  be  prepared  as  follows :  Wash  and 
trim  a  hind  leg,  score  deeply  in  seven  or  eight  places,  crowd 
into  each  of  the  scores  a  small  onion  stuck  with  a  clove,  a 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  little  salt  and  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter. Lay  it  in  a  pan  with  a  cupful  of  hot  water,  turn  another 
pan  over  it  and  bake  till  nearly  done.  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of 
dry  French  mustard  and  three  of  very  fine  bread  crumbs  to'  a 
thin  paste,  adding  alternately  vinegar  and  butter;  season  this 
highly  with  salt,  and  both  black  and  cayenne  pepper.  Make 
sufficiently  soft  to  spread  thin,  but  not  to  run.  Take  up  the 
meat,  place  in  a  dry  pan,  cover  well  with  the  paste,  then  return 
to  the  oven  and  roast  gently  till  the  paste  is  a  golden  brown. 
Serve  with  mint  sauce. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FLAVORING  FOR  LAMB. 

A  most  delicate  flavor  may  be  given  to  the  lamb  which  is  to 
be  eaten  cold  if  a  few  w'hole  cloves  and  sticks  of  cinnamon 
are  added  to  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  If  roasted,  boil 
the  cloves  and  cinnamon  in  water  and  use  this  spiced  water 


212  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

to  baste  it  with.     Serve  with  mint  sauce,  garnished  with  sprigs 
of  mint  or  curly  parsley. — Juliet  Hite  Gallaher,  Virginia. 

STEWED   KIDNEYS. 

Soak  kidneys  in  salt  water  over  night,  and  boil  until  tender 
with  little  onion  chopped  fine.  Place  in  sauce  pan,  one  table- 
spoonful  each  flour  and  butter,  cook  to  a  nice  brown,  add  one- 
half  cup  beef  stock,  one-half  cupful  cream,  season  to  taste, 
boil  good  five  minutes  then  add  the  cut  kidneys.  Serve  hot 
with  chopped  parsley  on  top. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom, 
Hartford,  Conn. 

HAM  PUFF. 

(Good  to  use  up  remnants  of  boiled  ham.)  One  pint  milk, 
one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  flour,  eight,  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately;  salt  to  taste;  one  and  one-half  cups 
chopped  cooked  ham.  Scald  the  milk  in  double  boiler.  Add 
the  butter  and  when  melted,  add  a  smooth  thickening  made  of 
the  flour  mixed  with  cold  milk.  Stir  till  smooth  and  thick. 
Take  from  stove  and  let  get  cold.  Then  add  the  well  beaten 
yolks,  and  lastly  the  stiff  whites,  salt,  and  ham.  Put  in  a 
baking  dish  that  can  be  sent  to  the  table.  Bake  three-fourths 
of  an  hour,  with  the  dish  standing  in  water. — Mrs.  Watts  S. 
Humphrey,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

THANKSGIVING    MINCE    MEAT. 

One  of  the  best  and  richest  of  mince  meats  is  this,  that  has 
been  in  constant  use  in  one  family  for  more  than  a  generation. 

Chop  fine  in  a  meat  chopper  three  pounds  lean,  tender 
cooked  beef.  The  meat  may  be  of  roast  beef  or  beef's  tongue, 
which  is  used  for  the  richest  form  of  mince  meat,  or  it  can  be 
from  the  round  of  beef,  which  is  quite  good  enough  for  this 
purpose.  Add  to  the  meat  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  suet,- freed 
from  strings  and  chopped  fine,  six  pounds  tart  apples,  Spitzen- 
bergs  or  nice  Greenings,  chopped  in  coarse  bits ;  six  pounds 
sugar,  one  pint  molasses,  four  pounds  seeded  raisins,  three 
pounds  currants,  well  washed  and  thoroughly  dried,  one-half 
pound  citron  shredded  fine,  three  pints  sweet  cider,  three  pints 
JDoiled  cider,  one  quart  of  the  stock  in  which  the  meat  was 
cooked,  three  tablespoon  powdered  cinnamon,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  each  of  salt  and  powdered  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  each  white 
pepper,  mace,  allspice  and  "nutmeg,  three  pints  tart  jelly,  and 
as  much  more  juice  of  preserves  or  jelly  as  the  housekeeper 
may  elect.  Rose  water  may  be  added  at  the  last  if  desired,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  each  candied  orange  or  lemon  peel  are  an 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  213 

improvement.  Chopped  prunes  are  another  excellent  addition, 
as  also  cold  coffee  or  any  fruit  juices  that  have  commenced 
to  ferment,  but  not  moldy.  This  mince  meat  may  be  scalded 
or  packed  away  in  glass  jars  without  cooking,  its  richness  in- 
suring its  keeping.  This  should  be  allowed  to  ripen  at  least 
two  weeks  before  using,  and  will  last  the  average  sized  family 
from  Thanksgiving  until  late  spring. — John  Langowsky, 
Fray  Marcus  Hotel,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MINCE    MEAT. 

Two  quarts  chopped  meat,  four  quarts  apple,  two  quarts 
sweet  cider,  one  quart  molasses,  four  teacups  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  salt,  two  teaspoons  pepper,  seven  teaspoons  each 
of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  four  nutmegs,  two  pounds  raisins. 
Mix  well,  cook  two  hours,  add  one  pint  sweet  cider. — Mrs. 
George  A.  Coles,  Middletown,  Conn. 

When  making  your  mince  meat  put  in  a  few  quinces,  finely 
chopped. 

MINCE    MEAT. 

Take  five  or  six  pounds  of  scraggy  beef — a  neck  piece  will 
do — put  it  to  boil  in  water  enough  to  cover.  Take  off  scum 
that  rises  when  it  reaches  boiling  point.  Add  hot  water  from 
time  to  time  until  it  is  tender.  Then  remove  lid,  salt,  let  boil 
until  almost  dry,  turning  the  meat  over  in  the  liquor.  Take 
from  fire,  let  stand  over  night  to  get  thoroughly  cold.  Pick 
gristle  or  stringy  bits  from  the  meat,  chop  very  fine,  mincing 
at  the  same  time  three  pounds  of  nice  beef  suet;  wash  and 
dry  four  pounds  of  currants,  four  pounds  of  raisins ;  slice  thin 
one-half  pound  of  citron,  six  quarts  of  good  tart  cooking  ap- 
ples. Put  in  a  large  pan  together  with  two  ounces  of  cinna- 
mon, one  of  cloves,  one  of  ginger,  four  ground  nutmegs,  the 
juice  and  grated  rinds  of  two  lemons,  one  tablespoon  of  salt, 
one  teaspoon  of  pepper,  two  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  in  a  por- 
celain kettle  one  quart  of  good  boiled  cider,  one  quart  of  nice 
molasses,  a  good  lump  of  butter.  Mix  well  with  other  ingre- 
dients, let  boil  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  .  Pack  in  jars  when  cold. 
Pour  molasses  an  eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  seal. 
This  will  keep  for  months.  If  not  moist  enough  add  a  little 
hot  water. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Copeland,  Point  Richmond,  Calif. 

MIXCE    MEAT. 

Four  pounds  ground  beef  (cook),  three  pound  sugar,  one 
pound  citron,  two  pounds  raisins,  four  pounds  currants,  two 
ounces  cinnamon,  one  ounce  cloves  (ground),  two  ounces 
allspice,  one  and  one-half  gallons  cider. — W.  A.  Field,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 


214  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

RECIPE  FOR  MIXCE  MEAT. 

Two  pounds  of  meat,  one  pound  beef  suet,  three  pounds  of 
sweet  apples,  three  pounds  of  sour  apples,  four  pounds  of 
raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one  pound  of  citron,  one-half 
pound  of  lemon  peel,  one  tablespoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
pepper,  one  tablespoonful  ground  cloves,  one  tablespoonful 
nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  mace,  one  tablespoonful  allspice, 
two  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  three  pounds  brown  sugar,  two 
quarts  sweet  cider,  one  quart  boiled  cider,  one  quart  currant 
juice,  one  quart  cherry  juice.  Mix  all  together  in  a  large  ket- 
tle and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  seal,  and  it  will  keep  for 
years. — Mrs.  Gus  Jakle,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

MIXCE    MEAT. 

One  pint  bowl  of  meat  chopped  fine,  two  pint  bowl  of  ap- 
ples, one  quart  boiled  sweet  cider,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
molasses,  one  bowl  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound 
of  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice, 
one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Let  this  mixture  come  to  a  boil. 
— Mrs.  W.  Patterson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ROAST  MUTTON, 

Take  a  leg  of  mutton  and  prepare  for  the  oven  in  the  usual 
way  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour  rubbed  on  it.  Now  add  one 
small  onion  chopped  fine  and  small  piece  of  butter  to  brown. 
Put  in  hot  oven,  turning  often  until  brown  on  all  sides.  Then 
roast  in  usual  way.  When  done  make  the  gravy,  strain  out 
the  onion,  or  leave  in  as  liked.  Very  nice  with  sweet  pota- 
toes browned  in  with  the  meat. — Mrs.  N.  J.  Hudson,  Los 
Angeles,  Calif. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  MUTTOX. 

Cut  off  the  shank  bone,  rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge 
with  flour,  roast  till  done  with  frequent  basting,  take  up,  pour 
off  surplus  fat  from  pan,  add  little  browned  flour  to  the  re- 
maining gravy,  moisten  with  any  good  stock,  add  capers. 
Serve  with  mint  sauce.  Garnish  roast  on  platter,  with  cooked 
peas  in  turnip  cups. — Contributed. 

IMITATION   BARBECUE   OF   MUTTOX. 

Roast  the  mutton  as  usual,  but  about  one  hour  before  it  is 
ready  to  serve,  prepare  the  following  mixture;  One-third  cup 
each  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  tomato  catsup,  and  vinegar, 
saltspoon  pepper,  one  rounded  teaspoon  mustard.  Stick  the 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  215 

meat  all  over  with  a  sharp  pointed  knife, 'pulling  the  gash  open 
and  filling  with  the  mixture  just  prepared.  If  any  is  left 
pour  it  over  the  roast  when  it  comes  to  the  table.  This  is 
excellent. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Ross,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PEPPER    POT. 

Recipe  of  the  Union  League  of  Philadelphia. 

Boil  the  tripe  until  tender  which  generally  takes  fifteen 
hours;  when  done,  save  the  liquor  to  make  soup.  Cut  up  the 
tripe  into  small  pieces,  when  cut  up  put  them  back  into  kettle 
with  liquor,  take  some  raw  potatoes  and  cut  them  up  into 
small  pieces ;  take  some  raw  onions  and  also  cut  into  small 
pieces  about  the  size  of  a  large  pea,  then  put  in  the  following 
herbs ;  some  sweet  basil,  some  summer  savory  and  a  bunch  of 
pot  herbs ;  salt  to  taste,  and  also  some  cayenne  pepper,  some 
butter.  Then  make  some  dough  about  one-fourth  inch  thick 
and  make  into  small  dumplings  about  the  size  of  a  gooseberry, 
put  the  dumpling  in  the  pot  about  five  hours  after  the 
other  ingredients  have  been  boiling,  and  then  let  the  pot  be 
on  the  fire  four  hours  longer  to  cook  the  dumplings. — Con- 
tributed, Saginaw,  Mich. 

CHICKEN    PIE. 

Boil  one  large  or  two  small  year  old  chickens  till  thoroughly 
cooked,  with  broth  to  cover  it  when  done.  Make  a  rich  bak- 
ing-powder biscuit  dough,  roll  thin,  line  the  sides  of  a  deep 
three  quart  basin,  lay  in  the  pieces  of  chicken,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  pepper  and  lumps  of  butter  and  drop  in  little  pieces  of 
the  dough.  Thicken  the  broth  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  turn  in  enough  to  cover  the  chicken.  Roll  a  piece  of  the 
dough  one-half  inch  thick  and  cover  the  pie.  being  careful  to 
make  holes  in  the  cover  for  the  steam  to  escape. — Mrs.  H.  F. 
Adams,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ROAST  YOUNG  PIG. 

Clean  nicely.  Do  not  remove  head  or  feet.  Make  a  stuffing 
of  dry  bread,  moistened  with  warm  water;  add  grated  onion, 
one  beaten  egg,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  and  savory. 
Fill  the  opening  with  above  stuffing,  and  sew  up.  Stand  the 
pig  in  a  pan  of  water,  beef  stock,  butter  and  onion,  and  baste 
often.  Cover  nose  and  ears  with  a  paste  jacket,  if  the  oven 
be  too  hot.  Bake  slowly  for  three  hours.  Put  a  corn  cob  in 
his  mouth.  Serve  hot  with  stuffed  baked  apples,  and  garnish 
with  water  cress.  This  .will  be  nice  cold  for  luncheon. — Con- 
tributed, Williams,  Ariz. 

"The  pen  is  mightier  than  the  sword." 


216  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

PORTERHOUSE    STEAK   AND    MUSHROOMS. 

Put  in  granite  pan  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  small  onion, 
a  pinch  of  thyme,  put  over  the  fire.  When  melted  stir  in 
slowly  two  tablespoons  flour  (taking  from  the  hot  fire  while 
mixing).  When  it  is  slightly  browned,  add  a  cup  of  water 
and  let  it  simmer.  Add  three  tablespoons  of  beef  stock,  a  tiny 
bit  of  nutmeg.  Put  in  mushrooms  and  cook  fifteen  minutes. 
Pour  over  steak  and  serve. — Mrs.  R.  C.  Wente,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

ROAST  LOIN  OF  PORK. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  pork,  score  the  skin  with  a  sharp  knife 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  a  dripping  pan, 
pour  one  teacupful  of  water  in  the  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound.  Baste  frequently 
with  the  drippings  in  the  pan.  When  about  half  done  wash 
and  wipe  either  sweet  or  Irish  potatoes  of  medium  size  and 
put  in  the  pan.  When  cooked,  place  the  meat  on  a  heated 
platter.  Serve  with  its  own  gravy  and  apple  sauce.  Garnish 
with  celery  tops  and  pickles. — Jane  E.  Clemmens,  Ohio. 

RECIPE  FOR  SCRAPPLE. 

Everyone  who  eats  the  scrapple  which  I  make  finds  it  so  pleas- 
ing to  their  palates  that  they  request  the  directions  for  the 
making.  Instead  of  using  hog's  head,  as  my  mother  used  to 
make,  I  use  a  quarter's  worth  of  good  steak,  five  cents'  worth  of 
fresh  pork,  put  them  through  the  meat  chopper  and  put  on  in 
water  to  boil  until  done  and  water  is  left  just  sufficient  to  take 
up  corn  meal  to  the  consistency  of  mush.  Stir  very  rapidly 
while  slowly  pouring  in  meal.  Salt  to  taste  and  mould  in  a 
long,  narrow,  square  pan.  When  quite  cold  and  solid,  slice  in 
thin  strips,  dip  in  meal  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  It  makes  a  fine 
fish  course,  as  few  can  tell  it  from  fish. — Mrs.  H.  A.  W.,  Cyn- 
thiana,  Ky. 

BAKED    PIG'S    SHOULDER. 

Cook  in  quite  salt  boiling  water  two  hours  with  whole  allspice 
and  cloves.  Take  out  and  skin,  brush  the  top  with  beaten  egg, 
sprinkle  seasoned  bread  crumbs  on  top  and  sides,  with  slices 
of  onion.  Bake  an  hour  or  until  done  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve 
hot  with  apple  sauce.  Garnish  the  platter  with  corn  balls  and 
parsley.  Delicious  sliced  cold  for  next  day's  luncheon. — Miss 
Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  217 

RIB    ROAST    STUFFED. 

Remove  the  bones  from  the  meat,  flatten  the  meat  and  pepper 
and  salt  well.  Make  a  rich  dressing  moistened  with  egg. 
Pour  the  dressing  into  a  hot  frying  pan  with  a  little  melted 
lard.  Stir  until  thickened,  spread  over  the  meat,  roll,  tie  and 
bake.  Press  and  slice  cold.— Mrs.  George  Raney,  Williams. 
Ariz. 

PORK    TENDERLOIN    ROAST. 

Split  pork  tenderloin  lengthwise  on  the  side,  put  a  layer 
of  dressing  between  the  two  pieces  and  then  bind  or  sew  them 
together.  Cut  a  small  carrot  and  a  small  onion  in  pieces  and 
lay  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  pan  and  put  the  tenderloin  over 
this.  Put  some  slices  of  fat  pork  or  bacon  on  top  of  the  pork. 
Peel  Irish  potatoes  and  lay  around  the  outside  of  the  pan. 
Bake  meat  until  tender.  Select  uniform  sized  and  rather 
small  potatoes,  or  they  will  not  be  sufficiently  baked  by  the 
time  the  pork  is  tender. — Mrs.  O.  Ramey,  Williams,  Ariz. 

INDIAN    STEW. 

Cut  up  and  stew  a  fowl  half  clone,  then  add  a  cup  of  raw 
.rice,  a  slice  of  ham  chopped  fine,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  all  cook 
together  until  the  rice  swells  and  absorbs  all  the  gravy  of 
stewed  chicken.  Do  not  allow  it  to  get  hard  or  dry.  Serve  in 
a  deep  dish.  This  may  be  made  of  many  kinds  of  meat.  Veal 
is  very  nice  cooked  in  this  way. — Mrs.  George  Raney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

IRISH  STEW. 

Select  lean  pieces  of  mutton  cut  in  strips,  put  in  about  quart 
of  water  and  stew  until  nearly  tender ;  add  medium  sized  pota- 
toes, onions,  turnips  (and  cabbage  if  desired),  season  to  taste, 
and  cook  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  If  liquid  boils  away, 
add  any  good  stock — but  mutton  preferred.  Serve  hot,  meat 
and  vegetables  together. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

IRISH  STEW. 

Chop  mutton  or  beefsteak  or  both  together;  add  raw  pota- 
toes sliced  very  thin,  two  onions  and  two  small  carrots ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  with  water  in  a  stew  pan  and 
stew  gently  until  meat  becomes  tender  and  the  potatoes  are 
nearly  dissolved  in  the  gravy. — Mrs.  E.  Pallett,  Williams, 
Ariz. 


218  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

MERSHOX  WOODS  STEW. 

In  the  first  place  take  a  pot  that  is  going  to  be  large  enough 
to  hold  enough  of  the  stew  to  at  least  serve  each  of  the  partici- 
pants twice,  for  I  have  found  that  as  a  rule  they  come  back  for 
the  second  helping.  For  instance,  if  you  are  going  to  serve 
thirty  people,  I  should  take  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  fat  pig 
pork,  salted;  after  cleaning  and  scraping  thoroughly,  cut 
it  into  very  thin  slices,  the  thinner  the  better.  Then  take  a 
knuckle  of  veal  with  a  few  of  the  short  ribs,  fat  enough  to 
make  an  addition  to  the  knuckle  of  a  least  a  pound  of  the  veal. 
One  and  one-half  pounds  or  so  of  mutton,  not  lamb,  but  mut- 
ton, and  I  always  preferred  the  brisket  or  the  rib  piece.  One 
and  one-half  pounds  lean  beef  cut  into  small  squares,  say  not 
over  one  inch  square.  The  veal  and  the  mutton  also  want  to 
be  cut  up.  One  fowl,  weighing  four  or  five  pounds,  and  cut  it 
up  into  eight  or  nine  pieces.  Disjoint  it.  Above  all  things,  do 
not  break  a  bone,  that  is,  take  oft  the  drum-sticks  at  the  joint, 
and  the  second  joint  at  the  hip  joint,  remove  each  wing,  then 
break  the  back  bone  into  two  pieces  and  leave  the  breast  whole. 
If  you  have  not  the  fowl,  two  spring  chickens  are  even  better. 
Never  put  a  rabbit  in  the  stew,  but  a  partridge  or  a  nice  young 
squirrel,  or  a  small  piece  of  venison  would  be  a  welcome  addi- 
tion. So  much  for  the  meat  portion.  If  you  have  fresh  par- 
snips, clean  and  slice  about  four  medium  sized  ones,  that  would 
be  sufficient.  Potatoes  are  the  main  single  ingredient,  and 
after  they  are  quartered  or  sliced,  not  too  fine,  you  should 
have  at  least  three  quarts  of  them.  Six  or  eight  carrots,  sliced 
onions  sufficient  to  fill  a  two-quart  basin;  one-half  dozen  raw 
tomatoes  if  in  season,  or  one  quart  can  of  same ;  one  quart  can 
of  corn,  or  half  a  dozen  ears  scraped  from  the  cob,  if  in  season ; 
two  handfuls  of  lima  beans,  one  pint  shelled  peas,  or  the  canned 
article  will  do.  If  you  have  some  of  the  old  fashioned  yellow 
rutabagas,  peel  and  slice  about  four.  Cut  up  fine  one- 
half  head  of  cabbage,  a  fair  supply  of  the  green  gumbo,  or 
failing  in  that,  at  least  a  pint  of  the  canned.  Now  you  are 
ready  to  begin  work. 

First.  Sprinkle  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  with  the  sliced  po- 
tatoes, then  put  in  a  layer  of  salt  pork,  then  some  one  of  the 
other  vegetables  alternating  with  the  meat,  duly  seasoning  each 
two  or  three  courses  as  follows :  Be  sure  to  get  plenty  of 
pepper  in,  I  usually  take  six  or  eight  little  red  peppers  and  one 
handful  of  pepper-corn,  and  in  addition  to  this  grind  a  few  of 
the  pepper-corns.  If  you  have  one  or  two  old  fashioned  bell 
peppers  that  have  gone  to  seed,  put  them  in  whole,  but  plenty 
of  pepper  is  essential.  Of  course,  it  must  be  salted,  but  you 


WILUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  219 

can  always  add  salt  but  not  take  it  out,  so  be  careful  about  put- 
ting in  too  much  salt. 

Have  a  kettle  that  is  large  enough  so  that  when  all  of 
these  ingredients  are  put  in,  that  not  to  exceed  two-thirds  of 
its  capacity  has  been  filled.  Then  put  in  pure,  cold  water, 
sufficient  to  cover  all  two,  two  or  three  inches. 

Xow  put  it  on  the  stove  and  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  put  it  on 
the  back  of  the  stove  so  it  will  only  simmer;  above  all  things 
do  not  let  it  boil  hard,  but  it  should  be  kept  bubbling  and  sput- 
tering away  just  to  about  a  boil,  practically,  for  fully  two  and 
one-half  hours.  It  would  be  good  for  nothing  if  it  is  any  less 
than  this.  It  is  better  if  it  cooks  four  or  five  in  this  same  way. 
Leave  the  cover  off  the  pot  so  it  will  evaporate  some,  occa- 
sionally skimming  it. 

Serve  it  as  a  soup  or  soup-course,  and  you  will  find  that  if 
it  comes  on  the  table  hot  and  all  right  that  your  guests  will 
want  very  little  else  for  dinner,  and  it  is  perfectly  admissible 
to  come  back,  like  Oliver  Twist,  for  more. — Wm.  B.  Mershon, 
Saginaw,  Mich. 

CREAMED    SWEETBREADS. 

Soak  sweetbreads  in  salt  and  water  over  night.  If  young, 
boil  in  hot  water  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  and  remove  the  sin- 
ews. Pick  to  pieces  and  stew  five  minutes  in  butter  gravy, 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Squeeze  in  some  lemon  juice 
just  before  serving.  Garnish  with  water  cress  and  serve  on 
toast  or  in  any  desired  way.  If  any  remains  after  the  meal, 
make  a  salad  for  the  next  day. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom, 
Hartford,  Conn. 

SWEETBREADS  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

Two  small  pairs  sweetbreads,  parboil,  remove  all  strings  and 
fibre  and  cut  each  one  into  two  pieces.  Heat  one  tablespoon 
butter  and  lay  them  in.  Saute  quickly,  turning  them  once. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  lay  on  hot  dish  one-half  can  mushrooms 
cut  in  halves.  Drop  these  into  the  pan,  add  one-fourth  cup 
cream,  thicken  quickly  with  one  tablespoon  flour  and  when  it 
bubbles  stir  smooth  and  remove  from  the  pan.  Pour  the  whole 
on  a  hot  dish  around  the  sweetbreads. — J.  W.  Bayles,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

SWrEETBREADS. 

One  pound  of  sweetbreads  soaked  in  salt  water  for  one-half 
hour,  then  boil  (with  an  onion)  until  tender;  when  nearly  cool 
skin  and  pick  in  small  pieces.  Take  one  pint  of  creani,  one 


220 

heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  which  mix  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one 
can  of  French  mushrooms;  boil  these  together  for  a  few  min- 
utes stirring  to  keep  from  burning.  Green  peas  can 
be  used  instead  of  mushrooms.  Chicken  can  be  used  in  place 
of  sweetbreads  when  thoroughly  boiled. — Mrs.  E.  B.  Perrin. 
Williams,  Ariz. 

SWEETBREADS   AND    BACOX. 

Parboil  the  sweetbreads,  drain  them  and  remove  the  gristle 
and  fat.  Dip  into  beaten  egg,  which  is  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  the  pan  in  which 
bacon  has  been  fried.  Drain  and  serve  with  the  slices  of  bacon. 
—Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Scald  in  salted  water,  remove  stringy  parts ;  put  in  cold  water 
five  or  ten  minutes ;  drain  in  towel ;  dip  in  egg  and  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  butter. — Mrs.  E.  Pallett,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

SAUSAGE  ROLLS. 

Make  a  dough  as  for  pie  crust,  roll  it  out  in  a  round  piece 
about  as  big  as  the  ordinary  saucer.  In  the  center  of  this  put 
a  flat  thin  cake  of  fresh  sausage  meat  and  roll  it  up  in  the  crust, 
pinching  the  ends  together  just  as  if  you  were  making  an  apple 
dumpling.  Put  it  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  done,  which  will 
usually  be  twenty- five  or  thirty  minutes. — Contributed. 

TAMALE  PIE. 

Two  quarts  boiling  water  well  salted,  one  tablespoon  butter 
or  lard  thickened  with  yellow  corn  meal  to  the  consistency  of 
mush,  three  pounds  round  steak  boiled  tender,  two  medium 
sized  onions,  three  medium  sized  green  chili  peppers.  Put  all 
through  meat  chopper  and  cook  in  butter;  while  cooking  add 
seven  or  eight  fresh  tomatoes  or  one  quart  canned  tomatoes 
and  salt  to  taste.  Line  bottom  of  large  granite  baking  pan  with 
mush  then  with  layers  of  tamale  well  clotten  with  olives  and 
so  on.  Last  layer  should  be  of  mush.  Moisten  well  with  the 
broth  meat  is  cooked  in  and  bake  in  slow  oven  one  hour.— 
Mrs.  Robt.  W.  Bryden,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

ESCALLOPED   TONGUE. 

Chop  some  cold  tongue,  not  too  fine,  and  have  for  each  pint 
one  tablespoon  onion  juice,  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  one 


WIUvIAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  221 

heaping  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  capers,  one  cup  bread 
crumbs,  half  a  cup  of  stock  and  three  tablespoons  butter. 
Butter  the  dish  and  cover  the  bottom  with  bread  crumbs. 
Put  in  the  tongue  which  has  been  mixed  with  the  parsley, 
salt,  pepper  and  caper,  and  add  the  stock  in  which  has  been 
mixed  the  onion  juice.  Put  part  of  the  butter  on  the  dish 
with  the  remainder  of  the  bread  crumbs  and  then  bits  of  butter 
here  and  there.  Bake  twenty  minutes  and  serve  hot. — Mrs. 
J.  R.  Ross,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SPANISH    TONGUE. 

Boil  tongue  until  tender,  and  for  sauce  use  one  small  can  of 
tomatoes,  one  can  of  mushrooms  cut  into  small  pieces,  one 
tablespoonful  of  ground  red  chili,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  mixed  with 
a  little  cream  to  be  added  when  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  R.  S. 

Teeple,  Holbrook,  Ariz. 

• 

SPANISH    TONGUE. 

Cook  tongue  until  tender;  peel  and  simmer  slowly  in  sauce 
for  one  hour.  Sauce :  To  one  can  of  tomatoes  add  onion  and 
green  chili  to  taste,  one-half  teaspoon  allspice  and  pinch  of 
salt.  Cook  sauce  until  it  begins  to  thicken  before  putting  in 
tongue. — Mrs.  A.  V.  Wagner,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MOCK  TURTLE. 

Cut  a  round  of  beefsteak  about  one  and  a  half  inches  thick, 
cut  to  form  a  pocket,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fill  with 
turkey  dressing.  Sew  up  the  end  and  fasten  slices  of  fat  bacon 
on  the  roll  with  toothpicks  and  bake,  basting  often.  Add  a 
little  boiling  water  the  last  half  hour  and  before  serving  thicken 
gravy  with  a  little  browned  flour.  Remove  bacon  and  tooth- 
picks before  serving. — Mrs.  George  McDougall,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  raw  veal  chopped  fine,  one-third  cup 
cracker  crumbs,  one  well  beaten  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
one-half  teaspoon  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  ginger,  one-half 
teaspoon  sage,  one  small  onion  cut  fine,  one-half  cup  water 
and  two  tablespoons  butter.  Remove  skin  and  membranes 
from  the  lean  veal  and  chop  or  grind  it  fine.  Add  the  crack- 
ers, then  the  eggs  and  then  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  well : 
put  in  a  buttered  pan,  pressing  it  in  compactly,  and  put  lumps 
of  butter  on  the  top.  Bake  two  or  three  hours  and  serve  cold, 
cutting  in  thin  slices. — Mrs.  O.  Ramey,  Williams,  Ariz. 


222  THE  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Three  pounds  of  raw  veal  chopped  very  fine,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk ;  if 
milk  use  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Mix  eggs  and  cream  together ; 
mix  with  veal  six  crackers,  crushed  fine,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  black  pepper,  one  large  tablespoonful  salt  and  one  large 
tablespoonful  sage.  Mix  well  together  and  form  into  a  loaf. 
Bake  three  hours  in  moderate  oven,  basting  with  butter  and 
water  while  baking.  Serve  cut  in  slices. — Manistee  Public 
School. 

VEAL  WITH  ASPARAGUS. 

Iii  a  hot  pan  put  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  rubbed 
to  a  paste  with  one  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Heat  with  one- 
half  pint  rich  milk  or  thin  cream,  stirring  well.  Put  in  two 
cups  of  tender  roast  or  stewed  veal  cut  in  cubes  and  one  cup 
asparagus  tips,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  cook  five 
minutes. — ].•  W.  Baylis,  Williams,  Ariz. 

VEAL    SAUSAGE. 

Two  pounds  veal  steak,  one-fourth  pound  salt  pork  chopped, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sage. — Mrs.  William 
Wente,  Manistee,  Mich. 

VEAL  STEW. 

Cut  veal  into  good  sized  squares.  Put  in  the  pot  with  boil- 
ing water,  add  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  parsnip,  one  small 
onion,  one  tablespoon  salt.  Boil  two  hours.  Remove  vege- 
tables fifteen  minutes  before  serving,  adding  several  small 
peeled  potatoes,  and  egg  dumplings,  and  cover  tight.  Dump- 
lings can' be  steamed  if  preferred.  Thicken  gravy  and  serve 
on  a  large  hot  platter  garnished  with  water  cress. — Miss 
Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

VEAL  TERRAPIN. 

Cut  lean  roast  veal  into  dice,  brown  one  tablespoon  flour, 
add  one  cup  milk  and  cook  until  smooth,  add  the  veal.  Season 
to  taste  with  salt  and  cayenne,  add  three  hard  boiled  eggs 
coarsely  chopped,  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  cook  five 
minutes  longer  and  take  from  tin.  Garnish  with  potatoes  and 
hard  boiled  eggs.  Shrimps  can  be  used  instead  of  veal. — Mrs. 
Will  Mclntyre,  Phoenix,  Ariz. 

PRESSED  VEAL. 

Boil  until  thoroughly  done  three  and  one-half  pounds  of 
Veal  and  pne  and  one-half  pounds  of  salt  pork  (with  lean. and 


WIIvUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  223 

rind  removed),  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  then  chop  very  fine. 
Dressing :  Use  one  cup  of  the  liquid,  butter  size  of  an  egg. 
Let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  stir  in  t\vo  well  beaten  eggs.  Boil 
two  minutes,  stirring  constantly  to  keep  it  smooth.  Add  more 
salt  and  pepper  if  necessary.  Pour  over  the  chopped  meat  and 
mix  well.  Place  in  a  pan  and  press. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Hodskin, 
Manistee,  Mich. 

VEAL  PIE. 

Place  in  a  pot  three  pounds  veal  cut  in  pieces  about  two 
inches  square  with  hot  water  enough  to  cover;  a  little  grated 
onion,  little  grated  carrot,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  nine  small 
peeled  potatoes.  Put  in  a  sauce  pan,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
one  tablespoon  butter,  brown  nicely,  add  one-half  teacupful 
sweet  cream.  Pour  the  veal  mixture  in  this,  letting  it  boil  up 
good.  Season  to  taste  and  put  all  in  a  hake  dish.  Make  a 
nice  biscuit  dough  for  the  iroper  crust,  and  place  over  bake 
dish,  making  about  five  holes  in  crust  for  ventilation.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  or  less.  Fill  holes  with  blackberry  jelly  and 
serve  hot. — Miss  Esther  Hanson,  Hartford,  Conn. 


224 


THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


be 


•5    >  fe 

§    •«  ^ 

-    «  "S, 

•~^     <(5  tJD 

I  : 


"S  St>E     »e 

^      8~2|.sgg.S 
c      g  .^.s  y  rt  o  ,,_, 

£5         cs      £  ^      o  S 
*>«>     »  wa     o  >^= 


rt 


"  r-  rt  h"s 


-  -3  rt 

£<    ac 

" 


C  <*-<    c 


- 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  225 


C^0_.3'S  "-   u"O 

~^  £         '^.H.a  '-''"'feu."1"™ 

I    •ggs«  °«c|S5™ 

«!K*  itt^1 

~  5  en   ~  ^  <"  "     ,°     W^B1"5^        <u^_  ~~.±!       cj       *g  o  ^^"S^jj1^^ 

J42-S-i3Ot,_,'5^:r-'13o            *QSSu_iJ2'-''o"Ort^      iS^^S  O_c'St«rtcS 

so        :S4o5p*^c-Q    lio,  ^So'^'^CQC-"        S  ^— t""1  WurtSw55 

M8s§<»°«-s^rt      gg^^°     <<    "^    ^"S^ts  "^-§2  .^8 

c3  >,°  %  £<S  S"S  c  «  >   '^-5^  o  «  S   .  c«  «     ^    «2.SrtS  0  o  g.S  j?  £  £  . 

^  "^   5   53   O              ^^^^             ?^rt<u  ^  -*-*(-•             .»— ,      rfOC^  *^^rtC^*^         ^ 

«  ^^  ^'b'o^.S^^     f**2§    -2"s-rt^    Sjo1^^  ulc^^rt3^0 

1  ll'"5  ri  Sl='5"|'°^    gJj  g^.S  §°  1"§^^    ^^°^  ol-'Sg^'S'o 

«  t  ^  •  -  H  °       "°ci5            '§'-^§s|>^'oSc^     CQSrt'g  +-t/)j~.CfQO"3 

&-2-0  ^                                 ^>-a  2-5          --Scxt,    <1.2&tj  :2      *"*           c*n 

i^         r!           '  "*  §             «°             r-r3rto         aJ(U            ^     "  2  Ow.g<l).""o 

-   <u   _.  *j                                         -.   —               ^         ,_,                   QJ^I  ^         .  .   _.   —   /-> 

u   <U 


226  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  227 


228  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


MEAT  SAUCES 


ANCHOVY  SAUCE. 

To  one  tablespoonful  butter-  acid  one  teaspoonful  anchovy 
essence.  Mix  well  and  keep  on  ice  for  general  use. 

BUTTER    SAUCE    FOR    BOILED    FISH. 

One  tablespoon  each  butter  and  flour,  melt  the  butter  by 
placing  it  in  a  sauce  pan  on  top  of  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Do  not  melt  on  the  stove  for  that  fries  and  scorches  it.  When 
melted  stir  in  the  flour  until  smooth,  then  add  a  good  half 
pint  of  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Let 
it  all  warm  to  a  boil,  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  stir  in  the 
yellow  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  salt  to  taste. — Contributed,  New 
York,  N.  Y. 

BLACK  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Warm  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  in  frying  pan  until  it  be- 
comes brown.  Add  six  parsley  leaves  chopped,  heat  again  for 
a  minute,  add  five  drops  of  vinegar.  Pour  into  sauce  bowl  and 
serve. 

MELTED    BUTTER    SAUCE. 

* 

One  tablespoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful  flour.  When 
melted  and  smooth  add  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Serve  with 
Brussel  sprouts. 

CAPER    SAUCE. 

Into  any  good  butter  sauce,  mix  some  whole  or  cut  capers 
and  a  little  strong  vinegar.  Used  with  boiled  mutton,  fresh 
boiled  ox  tongue  or  pig's  feet. — Mrs.  George  W.  Barney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

CAPER    SAUCE    FOR    FISH. 

Into  a  light  consomme,  mix  some  browned  flour  and  butter, 
season  it  with  tiny  bit  of  cayenne,  grated  nutmeg,  essence  of 
anchovies,  lemon  juice,  several  chopped  capers  and  little  vine- 
gar. 

CAVIAR  ON  TOAST  WITH  OLIVES. 

One  part  each  of  Russian  caviar,  soft  bread  crumbs,  and 
blanched  and  peeled  almonds  mixed  together  and  minced  into 
a  paste,  spread  on  strips  of  toast,  the  edges  garnished  with 
sliced  olives. 


230  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CANAPES    OF    CAVIAR. 

Circles  of  toast,  the  edges  spread  with  anchovy  paste,  with 
an  onion  ring  at  'its  base,  the  ring  filled  with  Russian  caviar. 
Garnish  with  chopped  parsley. 

EGG  SAUCE. 

Into  a  butter  sauce  mix  some  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Good  with  all  kinds  boiled  fish. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 

Into  a  good  thickened  roast  poultry  gravy  mix  some  finely 
chopped  celery  and  simmer  till  done.  Serve  with  roast  poul- 
try. 

CRANBERRY    SAUCE. 

Three  cups  cranberries,  three-fourths  cup  boiling  water,  one 
and  one-fourth  cups  sugar.  Pick  over  and  wash  cranberries. 
Put  in  sauce  pan,  add  sugar  and  boiling  water.  Cover  and 
cook  slowly  until  berries  are  tender.  Stir  as  little  as  possible. 
Skim  off  scum  and  cool. — Manistee  Public  Schools. 

CURRY   SAUCE. 

One  tablespoonfnl  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  curry  powder,  one  large  slice  of  onion,  one  large 
cupful  stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut  onion  fine  and  fry 
brown  in  butter.  Add  flour  and  curry  powder.  Stir  one  min- 
ute, add  the  stock,  then  the  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  five  min- 
utes; strain  and  serve. 

CREAM    SAUCE   FOR   FISH. 

Place  in  a  bowl  one-half  cup  butter  which  has  been 
creamed  add  yolks  of  four  well  beaten  eggs,  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  dash  cayenne  pepper.  Then 
add  slowly  one  cup  hot  water.  Mix  well,  set  into  a  sauce 
pan  of  hot  water  on  the  range,  stirring  until  the  sauce  be- 
comes a  thick  cream.  Do  not  let  boil.  Remove  from  stove 
and  beat  a  few  moments.  If  too  thick,  thin  with  sweet  cream 
before  serving.  Serve  in  boat.  Garnish  with  egg  and 
chopped  parsley. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CUCUMBER  SAUCE. 

Make  good  butter  sauce,  and  mix  some  slices  of  fried  cu- 
cumbers. Use  with  boiled  salmon  or  trout.  Lemon  juice  im- 
proves this. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  231 

GIBLET   SAUCE. 

The  trimmed  and  finely  shredded  gizzards,  livers  and 
hearts  of  poultry  stewed  tender  and  added  to  the  thickened 
and  strained  gravy  of  roast  poultry  and  served .  with  it. — 
Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

"Hunger  is  the  best  sauce." 
HORSERADISH    SAUCE. 

Mix  one  teaspoonful  horseradish  with  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  season  with  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Boil  good.  Serve 
hot  with  corned  beef  and  cabbage. — Contributed,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

HOLLANDAISE    SAUCE. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  one-half 
cup  oil  or  melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  dry  mustard, 
one-half  teaspoonful  cayenne,  one  teaspoonful  paprika,  six 
eggs,  salt  to  taste.  Boil  vinegar  with  seasonings;  meanwhile 
separate  the  yolks  and  whites,  beating  them  separately;  bring 
milk  to  a  boil ;  pour  it  over  the  yolks,  then  add  the  boilin  vine- 
gar, stir  on  the  range  till  it  just  thickens  like  custard  (do  not 
let  it  boil  or  it  will  curdle).  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat 
the  whipped  whites  with  the  melted  butter  or  oil,  then  put 
away  for  future  use.  Serve  warm  or  cold. — Mrs.  Dermont, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

MAYONNAISE   SAUCE  FOR   FISH. 

Take  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  beat  in  a  little  olive  oil  slowly; 
when  becomes  like  butter  add  salt,  then  little  more  oil,  then 
dry  mustard  and  cayenne;  then  alternately  oil,  vinegar  and 
lemon  juice  until  thick  enough  to  spread.  Before  serving,  add 
whipped  cream.  Used  with  frog's  legs,  broiled  fish,  fried  calf's 
brains, — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MINT   SAUCE. 

Finely  chopped  green  mint  and  a  little  grated  orange  rind 
placed  in  a  basin,  vinegar  brought  to  a  boil  with  enough  sugar 
to  take  off  the  rawness,  poured  over  chopped  mint.  Nice  for 
roast  lamb  and  mutton. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

Into  equal  quantities  tomato  and  butter  sauce,  add  some 
sliced  small  mushrooms  that  have  been  lightly  fried  with  butter. 
Season  with  lemon  juice  and  cayenne.  Or  leave  out  the  to- 
mato sauce  using  only  a  butter  or  egg  sauce,  with  mushrooms 
added.  Used  with  beefsteak,  poultry,  stuffed  sheep's  heart. — 
Contributed. 


232  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

ONION    SAUCE. 

Into  some  reduced  chicken  broth,  or  beef  stock,  add  some 
chopepd  mushrooms,  an  equal  quantity  rich  cream;  bring  to  a 
boil,  then  thicken  with  browned  flour,  and  strain ;  then  add 
quite  a  good  deal  of  grated  onion.  Boil  five  minutes.  Used 
with  boiled  mutton. — Contributed. 

OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Make  a  white  sauce  with  strong  chicken  or  beef  stock,  then 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Cook  five  minutes,  add  half  a 
cup  of  cream,  some  scalded  and  cut  up  oysters,  also  scalded 
oyster  liquor.  Used  with  boiled  whitefish,  chicken  or  turkey. 
—Contributed. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE. 

Into  a  good  butter  sauce  mix  some  chopped  parsley.  For 
boiled  plain  fish;  also  for  dipping  in  cutlets  of  meat  before 
breading. — Contributed. 

SAGE    SAUCE. 

Good  for  roast  pork  and  roast  goose.  Make  a  brown  gravy 
in  the  pan  with  the  residue  of  the  roasting;  add  some  chopped 
sage  leaves  (or  ground  sage),  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  then 

skim  and  strain. — Contributed. 

* 

TARTAR  SAUCE. 

Into  a  mayonnaise  sauce,  mix  some  finely  chopped  parsley, 
gherkins,  chives,  olives  and  capers.  Used  with  breaded  filets 
of  chicken,  frog  legs  and  sweetbreads.: — Contributed. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Take  equal  quantities  good  beef  stock  and  tomatoes,  a  veal 
and  ham  shank,  few  herbs,  sliced  vegetables  and  bay  leaf  (gar- 
Ijc  or  onion,  if  desired).  Boil  till  vegetables  are  done,  thicken 
wjith  browned  flour.  Used  for  steaks,  fried  sweetbreads,  lamb 
fries,  hamburger  steak,  fried  oysters,  and  anything  desired. — 
Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

TOMATO   SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

One  can  tomatoes,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  onion,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  two  drops  tobasco 
sauce,  four  cloves,  three  sprigs  parsley.  Put  onion,  cloves, 
tomatoes  together.  Simmer  fifteen  minutes,  melt  butter,  take 
from  stove-;  stir  in  fl9ur,  cook  until  frothy,  add  tomatoes,  stir 
until  boils.  Strain  and  serve  over  baked  fish. — Mrs.  W.  D. 
Finney,  Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  233 


MENUS,  LUNCHEONS,  SPECIAL  DINNERS 
AND  TABLE  ARRANGEMENTS 


"O  hour  of  all  hours,  the  most  bless'd  upon  earth, 
Blessed  hour  of  our  dinners!" 

— Lucile. 

MENUS. 

"Variety  is  the  spice  of  life." 

While  these  menus  are  simple  and  in  some  ways  compara- 
tively complete,  it  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  they  can  always  be 
carried  out  in  detail.  They  will,  however  furnish  suggestions 
to  housekeepers  and  entertainers  who  are  daily  perplexed  with 
the  question :  "What  shall  we  have  to  eat  today  ?" 

On  the  table  spread  the  cloth, 

Let  the  knives  be  sharp  and  clean; 
Pickles  get  and  salad  both, 

Let  them  each  be  fresh  and  green. 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR  JANUARY 


Breakfast 

Wheatena 

Broided  Ham         Baked  Potatoes 

Griddle  Cakes 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Onion  Soup 

Pot   Roast   of  Beef 

Potatoes  Cold  Slaw 

Spice  Pudding,   or  Aple  Tapioca 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR 
FEBRUARY 


Breakfast 

Sausage 
Fried  Apples 
Baked  Corn  Cakes 

Hashed  Potatoes 
Coffee 


Dinner 

Warmed-over   Baked   Beans 
Steamed  Brown  Bread 

Stewed  Tomatoes 
Mince  Pie 

Supper 

Creamed   Oysters 
Brown  Bread  Toast 

Tea  or  Cocoa 
Cookies 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  MARCH 


Breakfast 

Shredded   Wheat   with   Cream 
and    Steamed    Dates 

Rye   Muffins 

Smoked  Beef  in   Cream  Sauce 
Coffee 

Dinner 

Potato  Soup 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton 

Boiled   Rice  Canned  Corn 

Baked    Bananas 

Supper 

Rice  Drop  Cakes 

Sliced   Oranges 
Cake  Cocoa 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  235 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  APRIL  SUGGESTIONS  FOR  JULY 


Breakfast 

Wheatlet  Boiled  Eggs 

Scalded  Corn  Cakes 

Oranges,  or  Grape  Fruit 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Broiled   Shad 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Letuce  Salad,   or  Dandelion 

Greens 
Lemon  Pie,  or  Rice  Pudding 

Supper 
Hot  Shortcake  with 

Sliced  Oranges 
Cocoa 

Cold  Tongue 
Wafers 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  MAY 


Breakfast 

Baking-Powder  Biscuits 

Hash  Coffee 

Stewed  Prunes 

Dinner 
Pot  Roast  of  Veal,  or 

Veal  Fricessee 

Baked  Onions  Radishes 

Steamed  Rhubarb  Pudding 

Supper 

Asparagus  on  Toast 

Gingerbread  Cocoa 

Canned  Fruit 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  .JUNE 

Breakfast 

Picked  up  Codfish 
Baked  Potatoes       Dry  Toast 

Coffee 
Stewed  Gooseberries,  or 

Fresh  Strawberries 
Dinner 

Boiled  Salmon 
New  Potatoes  Green  Peas 

Cucumbers 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream 

Sponge  Cake 

Supper 

Rolls 

Salad   of  any  Cold   Green 

Vegetable 

Snow  Pudding 

Cake 


Breakfast 

Steamed    Rice   with    Raspberries 
Broiled   Bacon 

Omelet 

Graham   Gems 
Coffee 
Dinner 
Roast  Lamb  or  Lamb  Stew 

with  Dumplings 
Peas  or  Strawberries 
Lettuce  and  Cucumber  Salad 
Blueberry  Shortcake  or  Pie 
Mrs.  Barney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  AUGUST 
PICNIC  LUNCHES 

Scotch  Eggs 

Veal  Loaf  in  Graham  Sandwiches 
Bottled  Lemon  Juice 

or  Fruit  Syrup 
Potato  Salad 

Cheese   and   Nut   Sandwiches 

Olives  Pickles 

Hermits  or  Wafers 

Mrs.    Barney, 
Williams,   Ariz. 

SCHOOL  LUNCH  FOR 
CHILDREN 

Autumn-Winter 

Pressed  Chicken  Sandwich 

Gingerbread 
Apples  Nuts 

Spiced  or  Roast  Beef,  or 

Baked  Beans 

Spring-  Summer 

Stuffed  Egg  or  Egg  Sandwich 

Sponge  Cake  Orange 

Lettuce  or  Strawberry  Sandwich 

Cream  Cheese  Ball 
Sliced'  Tongue 

Fresh  Fruit 
Mrs.  Barney,   ' 
Williams,  Ariz. 

SUGGESTIONS    FOR    LADIES' 
LUNCH   IN   OCTOBER 

Bouillon   or  Hot  Spiced 

Grape  Juice 
Sauted    Oysters 

Broiled  Chicken 
Sugared  Sweet  Potatoes 

Cauliflower 

Peach  Shortcake 

Coffee 

Mrs.  Barney, 

William* 


236 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR  OLD  TIME 
THANKSGIVING    DINNER 


THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

PICNIC  DINNER  LUNCHES 


Boiled   Turkey  and   Roast  Duck 
or  Roast  Turkey  and 

Boiled  Ham 

Boiled  Potatoes  Turnips 

Squash  and  Onions 

Cranberry   Sauce 

Pickles 

.   White   and   Brown   Bread 
Mince  and  Pumpkin  Pie 
Plum   Pudding 

Apples         Nuts         Raisins 
Candy  Coffee 

Mrs.  Barney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


SUGGESTIONS    FOR    CHURCH 

SOCIABLE  SUPPER  IN 

DECEMBER 


Scalloped  Oysters  and  Cold  Ham 
or  Chicken  Salad  and  Baked 

Beans 
Rolls  Brown  Bread 

Pickles 

Baked   Indian   Pudding 

Cakes  and  Pies  of  all  kinds 

Coffee 

Mrs.  Barney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


VERANDA  SUPPER 


No.  1 

Curry    of   Chicken 

Tomato  Salad 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 
Sliced  Peaches 

Sponge  Drops 
Iced  Tea 

No.  2 

Eggs  Scrambled  with  Sardines 

Olives 

Celery  and  Pineapple  Salad 
Graham  Bread  and  Butter 

Sandwiches 
Peach  Sherbet 

Wafer  Jumbles 
Lemonade 

Mrs.    Barney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


No.  1 

Pressed  Corn  Beef 

Cold  String  Beans 
French  Dressing 
Fine  Pickled  Gherkins 
Boston  Brown  Bread  and 

Buter  Sandwiches 

Buttered    Parker   House    Rolls 

Peaches  Grapes 

Hot  Coffee 

No.  2 

Sardines  freed  of  Oil 

Lemon  Quartered 
Cheese   and    Olive   Sandwishes 
Joints  and  Slices  of  Cold   Roast 

Chicken 
New  Rye  Bread  and 

Butter  Sandwiches 
Pickled  Beets  Celery 

Apple  Turnovers 
Hot  Coffee 

No.  3 

Cold    Boiled    Ham. 

Tongue  or  Corned  Beef 

Potato  Salad 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 
Strawberry   Tarts 

Lemonade 
Hot  Coffee 

No.  4 

Cold  Boiled  Ham 
Egg   Salad   Sandwiches 

Hot  Coffee 
Pea'nut  Cookies 

Grape  Juice 

No.   5 

Cold  Veal  Loaf  Sliced  Thin 
String  Bean  Salad 

Olives 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 
Currant  Jelly  Tarts 

Hot  Tea 
Mrs.  George  Barney, 

Williams,  Ariz. 

SHEEP  OR  COW  CAMP  MENU 

Camp  Appetite 

Roast  Head 

Pink   Beans  with   Pork 
Baking-Powder  Biscuits 

Prune  Pie 
Black  Coffee 

J.  F.  Daggs, 
Williams,   Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


237 


THE     LUNCH     BASKET     FOR 
THE  ARIZONA  COWBOY 

Baskets  consist  of  two  wooden 
kerosene  boxes  fitted  with  bal- 
ing wire  tb  hang  on  pack  horses 
called  "Kyaks."  One  side  of 
bacon,  a  quarter  of  a  sack  of 
flour,  one  can  baking  powder, 
Chili,  Mexican  beans,  a  few 
onions,  sugar,  salt,  coffee,  three 
cans  tomatoes,  one  can  corn,  a 
three-pound  can  of  lard,  dried 
apples,  raisins,  apricots,  a  small 
sack  of  rice  for  moonshine.  A 
frying  pan  and  a  coffee  pot. — 
An  Arizona  Cowboy. 

MENU    FROM   CANNED 
FOODS 

Puree  of  Tomatoes          Crackers 
Salmon  Loaf  with  Cream  Sauce 

Rolls 
Hot  Roast  Beef 

Potato  Croquettes 
Canned  Corn  Souffle 
Pimento  Salad  Wafers 

Cheese  Balls 

Little  Huckleberry  Pudding 

Egg  Sauce 

Coffee 

EMERGENCY  MENU  OF 
CANNED  FOODS 

Beef  Bouillon  with  Barley 
Deviled  Crabs 

Bread  and  Butter 
Turkey   Croquettes,   Horseradish 

Sauce 

Curbed  Carrots  and  Peas  mixed 
and   Buttered 
Spinach  Salad 

Cheese  Water    Crackers 

Plum  Pudding  with  Hard  Sauce 

Coffee 

Puree  of  Peas 

Creamed  Lobster  in  Patty  Cases 
Lamb's  Tongue  stewed  with 

Boiled  Rice  and  Pimentos 
Buttered  Mushrooms 

Vienna  Rolls 

Asparagus   Salad 

Melted  Cheese  on  Wafers 

Pineapple  or  Canned  Peach 

Whips 

Coffee 

Mrs.  T.  S.  Maddock, 

•  Williams,  Ariz. 


CAMP   DINNER 

Venison    and    Roasted    Potatoes 

Fried  .Mushrooms 

Biscuit  and  Butter 

Coffee 

Jas  L.  Wade, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

MEALS   FOR   ONE  DAY 


4 


Breakfast 

Table  Decoration: 

Growing  Fern. 

Assorted  Fruit 

Rolled  Oats  and  Cream 

Boiled   Eggs,   Buttered  Toast 

Coffee 
Griddle  Cakes,  Maple  Syrup 

Luncheon 

Table  Decoration:  Sunflowers 

Grape   Fruit 
Bouillon  Crackers 

Ripe    Olives 
Lamb  Chops  French  Peas 

Scalloped   Potatoes 

Cocoa  Gems 

Custard   Pie 

Dinner 

Table  Decoration: 
Red  Carnations. 

Cantaloupe 
Bluepoints   on   Half   Shell 

Celery 

Cream    Potato    Soup 
Radishes  Olives 

Roast    Beef 

Yorkshire  Pudding 
Mashed  Potatoes       Corn  on  Cob 
Baked  Fish,  Lemon  Sauce 

Tomato  Salad 
Blackberry  Pudding,  Cream 

Sauce 

English  Cheese  Coffee 

Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont, 

Williams,  Ariz. 

MEALS   FOR   MONDAY 


Breakfast 

Assorted   Fruit 

Cream  of  Wheat 
Bacon  Fried  Eggs 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 

Coffee 

Buttered  Toast 
Buckwheat  Cakes,   Maple' Syrup 


238 


THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


Luncheon 

Hot  Consomme  with  Rice 
Cold  Roast  Beef 

Potato  Balls 
Sweet  Pickle 
Peaches  Tea 

Graham  Bread 

Spiced    Boiled    Rice    Cream   and 
Sugar 

Dinner 

Little  Neck  Clams 
Tomato  with  Noodles          Celery 

Crackers  Olives 

Red  Snapper,  Tartar  Sauce 
Roast  Veal  with  Gravy 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Sweetbread   Salad 

Fruit  Pudding,  Hard  Sauce 

Coffee 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Baked    Apples    with    Cream 

Poached  Eggs  on  Toast 
Fork  Sausage  Potato  Balls 

Coffee 

Corn  Bread  Doughnuts 

Luncheon 

Hot  Bouillon 
Broiled   Spanish   Mackerel,    Egg 

Sauce 

Potato  Chips     Stewed  Tomatoes 

Hot  Chocolate         Gems 

Salt  Rising  Bread 

Celery  Salad 
Rice  and   Orange   Pudding 

Dinner 

Toke  Points  on  Half  Shell 

Chicken  Consomme  with  Rice 

Radishes  Celery 

Broiled  Shad,  Egg  Sauce 

Potato  Balls  Roast  Beef 

Yorkshire  Pudding 
Browned  Potatoes 

Stuffed  Peppers 
Cucumber   Salad 
Mince  Pie  Bavarian  Cream 

Coffee 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Assorted   Fruit 

Scrambled  Eggs 
Coffee  Toast 

Hashed   Chicken 
Creamed   Potatoes       Doughnuts 


Luncheon 

Hot  Bouillon 

Olives  Crackers 

Mutton   Chops   with    Peas 

Scalloped   Potatoes 

Tea  Muffins 

Custard   Pie 

Dinner 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Turtle  Soup         Celery         Olives 

Roast  Duck,  Cream  Sauce 

String   Beans  in  Cream 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Xesselrole  Pudding,  Cream 

Sauce 
Demi  Tasse 


THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Strawberries  and  Cream 
Rolled   Oats 

Soft  Boiled  Eggs 
Dry  Toast  Coffee 

Rolls 
Corn  Cakes  with  Syrup 

Luncheon 

Cold  Bouillon 

Olives  Cucumbers 

Stewed  Chicken  with  Noodles. 

Corn  on  Cob 
Cocoa  with  Whipped   Cream 

Graham  Bread 

Apple  Sponge  with  Cream 

Bonbons 

Dinner 

Cantaloupe 

Consomme  with  Rice 

Celery  Crackers 

Fried  Cuts  of  Fish,  Tomato 

Sauce 
Chicken  Croquettes  with  Peas 

Roast  Veal,  Caper  Sauce 
Mashed  Potatoes 
Spinach  Green  Corn  on  Cob 

Tomato    Salad,    Mayonnaise 

Dressing 
Vanilla    Ice    Cream    and    Fresh 

Strawberries 

Fruit  Bonbons 

Coffee 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


239 


FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Fresh  Figs  with  Cream 

Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit 
Sardine  Omelet  with  Catsup 

Coffee 
Buttered  Toast 

Fried  Cakes 

Luncheon 

Bouillon 
Fried  Frog's  Legs,  Tartar  Sauce 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Chicken  Hashed  in  Shells 

Sweetbread    Croquettes,    Tomato 

Sauce 

Tea  Biscuits  Hot  Tea 

Water  Cress  Salad  Salad,  French 

Dressing 

Frozen  Peaches  and  Cream 

Chocolate  Cookies 

Bonbons 


.Luncheon 

Puree   of    Beans 
Chipped  Beef  in  Cream 

Potato  Croquettes 
Hot  Chocolate,  Whipped  Cream 
Pop  Overs 

Apple  Pie  a  la  Mode 
Bonbons 

Dinner 

Cream  Tomato   Soup 
Salted  Almonds 

Roast  Pork  with  Apple  Sauce 
Mashed   Potatoes,   Brown  Gravy 

Cauliflower,  Cream  Sauce 
Green    Corn 

Waldorf  Salad 

Salted   Wafers 
Blackberry  Pudding,  Hard 

Sauce 
Miss  Harriette  B.  Teft, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Dinner 

Cantaloupe 

Giblet  Soup         Celery         Olives 

Smelts,    Worcestershire    Sauce 

Scalloped    Chicken,    Tomato 

Sauce 
Saddle  of  Venison  with  Jelly 

Potato  Balls 

Breast  of  Quail  in  Cutlets 
Green    Peas 

Apple  Salad 
Cheese   Straws 
Pineapple   Bavarian   Cream 
Ice  Cream  Gin'ger  Preserves 

Drop  Cakes 

Roquefort  Cheese  and  Crackers 
Coffee 

Contributed, 
Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Bananas 
Scrambled  Eggs  with 

Mushrooms 

Fried  Frog's  Legs,  Tartar  Sauce 
French    Fried   Potatoes 

Coffee 

Toast  Gems 

Fried  Cakes 


SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Cantaloupe,  Iced 
Oatmeal  and  Cream 
Lamb  Kidneys  with  Bason 

Baked  Potatoes 
"Coffee 

Pop  Overs  Toast 

Doughnuts 

Luncheon 

Amber  Soup 

Broiled    Oysters,    Tomato    Sauce 
Pigsfeet  with  Mushrooms 

Stuffed  Baked  Potatoes 

Hot  Cocoa,  Whipped  Cream 

Brown  Bread  Muffins 

Water  Cress  Salad 

Olives  Crackers 

Rhubarb  Pie 

Dinner 

Bluepoints   on   Half  Shell 
Cream  Bean  Soup  Celery 

Tenderloin   Steak-,   Fried   Onions 
Baked   Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Steamed  Potatoes 
Green  Corn 
Sweetbread  Salad 
Orange  Pudding 


THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


Breakfast 

Stewed  Prunes 

Boiled  Rice  with  Cream 

Fried  Chicken,  Cream  Sauce 

Creamed    Potatoes 
Toast  Cornbread 

Coffee 
Wheat  Cakes  with   Syrup 

Luncheon 

Russian  Caviar 

Hot  Consomme  in  Cups 
Ripe  Olives  Green  Onions 

Baked   Fresh  Mackerel,  Tomato 

Sauce 
Fried   Potatoes 

Lima  Beans 
Iced  Tea 

Salt   Rising   Bread 

Tomato   Salad 

Apple   Snow  Lady  Fingers 

Bonbons 


Dinner 

Grape   Fruit 

Mutton    Broth    with    Rice 

Olives  Saltines 

Broiled   Bass,   Lemon  Sauce 

Potato  Balls 
Roast  Turkey  Stuffed  with 

Oysters 
Stuffed  Baked  Potatoes 

New  Beets 

Artichoken,  Hollandaise  Sauce 
Chicory  Salad    •        Stuffed  Dates 

Green  Olives 
Roquefort   Cheese,  Water 

Crackers 
Bonbons  Demi  Tasse 

Breakfast 

Raspberries  and  Cream 

Cream  of  Wheat 
Scrambled  Eggs  Fish  Balls 

Coffee 
Hot   Rolls 
Sour  Cream  Cakes  with 

Maple  Syrup 

Luncheon 

Oyster   Patties 

Chocolate  with  Whipped  Cream 

Muffins'  Brown  Bread 

Strawberry.  -Tarts 


Dinner 

Cream  Tomato  Soup 

Radishes  Celery 

Sweetbreads  with  Spinach 

Spaghetti 
Roast  Stuffed  Chicken  with 

Gravy 
Artichokes,  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Apple  Salad 
Buckeye  Pudding,   Butter  Sauce 

Coffee 
Mrs.  Amos  Adams, 

Williams,  Ariz. 

Breakfast 

Preserved   Berries  and   Cream 
Codfish  in  Cream 

Baked  Potatoes 
Coffee  Tea 

Toast  Corn    Bread 

Pineapple  Fritters,  Maple  Syrup 

Luncheon 

Consomme  with  Barley 
Stewed   Calf's  Liver,   Cream 

Sauce 
Oyster  Plant 

Steamed  Potatoes 
Lobster  Salad 

Fruit  Jelly  with  Whipped  Cream 
Hot  Chocolate 

Brown  Bread 
Gems 

Dinner 

Bluepoints   on  Half   Shell 
Horseradish  Catsup 

Cream  Asparagus  Soup 
Olives  Crackers 

Fried   Smelts,   Tartar  Sauce 

Potato  Balls 
Fricassed  Chicken 

with    Dumplings 
Artichokes,  Hollandaise  Sauce 
Mashed  Potatoes       French  Peas 

Water  Cress  Salad 

Bread  Pudding,  Butter  Sauce 

Coffee 

Autumn   Breakfast 

Assorted  Fruit 

Oatmeal  and  Cream 
Cheese  Omelet  Toast 

Broiled  Button   Chops 

Peas 

*Cream    Potatoes 

Coffee.  Hot  Rolls 

Wheat  Cakes,   Maple  Syrup 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


241 


Autumn  Luncheon 

Russian   Caviar 

Hot  Bouillon 
Broiled  Deviled  Kidneys,   Water 

Cress   Sauce 
Creamed  Potatoes 
Hot  Tea 

Graham  Gems 
Cucumber   Salad 
Sago   Pudding  Bonbons 


Autumn   Dinner 

Clams  on  Half  Shell 
Vegetable  Soup      Olives      Celery 
Roast  Suckling  Pig,  Apple  Sauce 
Stouffed  Peppers 

Stewed  Tomatoes 
Mashed  Potatoes 
Lettuce  Salad,  Mayonnaise 

Dressing 
Charlotte  Russe 

Roquefort  Cheese 
Wafers  Bonbons 

Demi  Tasse 

Mrs.  Dermont, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Spring  Breakfast 

Oranges  Sliced  in  Sugar 

Cream  of  Wheat 
Lamb  Chops,  Tomato  Sauce 
Omelet  with  Sardines 

Saratoga  Potatoes 
Coffee 
Dry  Toast 

Waffles   with   Syrup 


Spring  Dinner 

Salmon,  Butter  Sauce 

Cucumbers 
Chicken  Croquettes, 

Tomato   Sauce 
Sweetbreads  in  Shells, 

Beechamel  Sauce 
Filet  of  Beef  with  Mushrooms 
Orange  Sherbet 

Snipe 

French  Fried  Potatoes 
Chicken   Salad 
Cornstarch  Pudding  with 

Whipped  Cream 
Neapolitan  Ice  Cream,  Little 

Cakes 

Fruit  Bonbons 

Coffee 


Luncheon 

Ice  Tomato  Consomme 
Radishes  Green  Onions 

Broiled  Squab 

Potato  Balls 

New    Asparagus,    Drawn    Butter 
Iced  Peach  Tart 
Whipped  Cream 
Watermelon 

Contributed. 

Summer  Breakfast 

Peaches  and  Cream 

Oatmeal 

Young  Chicken,  Cream  Gravy 
Fried  Potatoes 

Water  Cress  Salad 
Poached  Eggs  on  Toast 

Coffee 

Rice  Pancakes  with  Maple 
Syrup 

Summer  Luncheon 

Iced  Consomme 
Radishes  Ripe  Olives 

Salmon  Loaf          Celery 
Iced  Tea  with  Lemon 

Salt  Rising  Bread 
Sherbet 

Dinner 

Grape  Fruit 

Turtle  Soup,  Whipped  Cream 
Boiled    Fish   with    Potato    Balls, 

Hollandaise  Sauce 
Calf's   Brains 

Cold  Slaw 
Roast   Wild    Turkey,    Onion 

Stuffing 
Spinach  on  Toast 

Green  Corn 

Apple  Salad  Served  in  Shells 
Olives  Celery 

Cocoanut  Pudding,   Strawberry 

Sauce 
Neapolitan   Ice    Cream 

Syrup   Wafers 
Crackers  and   Cheese 
Demi  Tasse 

Mrs.    Buggeln, 

Williams,  Ariz. 

Breakfast 

Melons 
Little  Fried  Perch,  Tartar 

Sauce 

Creamed  Potatoes 
Coffee  Buttered  Toast 

Corn  Cakes  with 

Maple  Syrup 


242 


THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


Dinner 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell 

Julienne  Soup,  .Crackers 
Radishes  Celery 

Sweetbreads,    Tartar    Sauce 
Braised    Pigeons    with    Spinach 

Lamb  Roast,  Mint  Sauce 
Vegetables 

Macaroni  with  Cheese 
Chocolate   Pudding, 

Whipped  Cream 

Fruit  Bonbons 

Coffee 


Winter  Dinner 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell 

Amber  Soup 

Salmon,  Hollandaise  Sauoe 
Lamb  Chops,  Tomato  Sauce 
Filet  of   Bfeef  with 
Roast   Quail 

Saratoga  Potatoes 
Lettuce  Salad 
Charlotte   Russe   garnished  with 

Strawberries 

Chocolate   Fruit   Ice   Cream 
Coffee 

Contributed. 


Luncheon 

Bouillon 

Deviled  Crabs  Olives 

Filet    of    Grouse,    Currant    Jelly 
Potato  Croquettes 

Creamed  Corn 
Graham  Gems 
Cocoa,    Whipped    Cream 
Chicken   Salad,    Mayonnaise 

Dressing 
Fruit    Jelly    with    Whipped 

Cream 
Bonbons 
Miss  Harriette  Tefft, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


.Winter    Breakfast 

Baked  Apples  with  Cream 

Oatmeal 
Fried  Oysters 

Potato  Croquettes 

Coffee 

Breakfast  Puffs  Toast 

Corn  Cakes,   Sugar  Syrup 


Winter  Luncheon 

Bouillon 
Roasted    Oysters   on   Half    Shell 

Chicken  Croquettes 
French   Peas 

Saratoga  Chips 
Chocolate  with  Whipped  Cream 

Pop  Overs 

Lettuce  .Salad  with  Tarragon 
Fruit  Ice    .  .       Wafers 


A  THANKSGIVING  DINNER 

Table  Decoration: 

Yellow   Chrysanthemums. 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell 

Ripe   Olives  Celery 

Salted  Almonds          Bouillon 

Roast  Turkey,    Chestnut 

Dressing 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Asparagus    Tips,    Cranberry 

Sauce 
Chicken   Salad 

Plum  Pudding 
Maple   Mousse 

Chocolate  and  Caramel  Cake 
Roquefort  Wafers 

Black  Coffee 
Mrs.  R.  C.  Wente, 

Williams,  Ariz. 

MERRY    CHRISTMAS 

Canape  a  1'Russe 

Celery  en   Branches 
Soup  Bisque  of  Oysters 

Fresh  Crab  Meat  Cocktail, 

Fray   Marcus 

Baked  Sea  Bass  a  1'Italienne 
Sweetbreads   Braised 

aux  Champignous 
Roast  Young  Turkey, 

Oyster  Dressing 

Cranberry  Jelly 
Frozen   Egg  Nogg 
Broiled    Philadelphia   Squab 

with  Water  Cress 
Browned  Sweet  Potatoes 

Mashed  Potatoes 
Atrichokes,  Butter  Sauce 
Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad 
Mince  Pie          Pumpkin  Pie 
English  Plum  Pudding, 

Hard  Sauce 
Strawberries   with   Cream 

Contributed. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


243 


CHRISTMAS  DINNER 

Table  Decoration: 
Holly  and  Mistletoe. 

Cantaloupe 
Almonds  Olives 

Oysters    on    Half    Shell 
Radishes 

Cream  Tomato   Soup 

Celerv 
Fried  Sand  Dabs 

Potato  Balls 

Turkey,    Cranberry  Sauce 
Baked    Potatoes 

Boiled   Onions 

Artichokes,  Hollandaise  Sauce 
Salt  Rising  Bread 

Orange  Punch 
Chicken  and  Water  Cress  Salad 

Saltine  Wafers 
English  Plum  Pudding,  Hard 

Sauce 
Strawbery  Ice  Cream,  Fruit 

Cake 

Wafers  Angel  Cake 

Mince  Pie          Pumpkin  Pie 

Cheese  Straws 

Fruit  Nuts  Bonbons 

Roquefort    Cheese 

Water  Crackers 
Demi   Tasse 
Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont, 

Williams,  Ariz. 

NEW   YEAR'S    DAY 

Breakfast 

Sliced  Oranges 

Cream  of  Wheat 
Poached  Eggs  on  Toast 
Graham   Muffins 
Coffee 

Luncheon 

Turkey  Broth 
Squabs  on  Toast  with 

Cranberry  Jelly 
Potatoes  au   Gratin 

French  Peas 
Waldorf  Salad 
Fruit  Jelly  served  with 

Whipped  Cream 
Corn  Starch  Cake 

Salt  Rising  Bread 
Hot  Chocolate 


.    A  HAPPY  NEW  YEAR 

Dinner 

Young   Onions 
Celery       Soup       Chicken  Gumbo 

Fresh  Crab  Meat  Cocktail 
Broiled  Columbia  River 

Salmon,   Parsley  Butter 
Turkey  Croquettes 

French  Peas 
Braised  Sweetbreads 
Roast  Young  Goose  Stuffed, 

Apple  Sauce 
Frozen  Egg  Nogs- 
Broiled  Philadelphia  Squab 

with  Cress 
Stemed   Potatoes 

Browned  Sweet  Potatoes 
Cauliflower  in  Cream 
.   Cold    Prime    Ribs    of    Beef, 

Potato  Salad 

Lettuce   and   Tomato    Salad 
Pumpkin  Pie  Mince  Pie 

Fresh   Sliced   Pineapple 
Contributed, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

FOURTH  OF  JULY  MENU 
Breakfast 

Strawberries  and  Cream 

Veal  Chops 
Potatoes  a   la  Creme 

Scrambled  Tomatoes 
Muffins  Toast 

Coffee 

Luncheon 

Cold  Beef  Tongue 
Fried  Potatoes 

Sliced   Tomatoes 
Lettuce   with   Mayonnaise 

Cheese          Olives 
Rye  Bread  Lemon  Pie 

Dinner 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Fried  Chicken  and  Gravy 

Mashed  Potatoes 
Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes 
Green    Peas 

Sliced  Cucumbers 
Young   Onions 

Hot  Rolls  Coffee 

Strawberries  in  Cream 
Devil's  Food  Cake 
Mrs.  Fred  Smith, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


244 


THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


DINNER  TABLE  ARRANGEMENT. 

The  first  requisites  for  a  well  appointed  table  are  immaculate 
linen,  sparkling  cut  glass  and  china,  and  well  polished  silver. 
The  centerpiece  is  either  of  cut  flowers,  a  fern  or  fruit.  At 
each  cover  a  service  plate  is  laid;  upon  this  plate  the  one  con- 
taining an  appetizer,  or  clams  or  oysters,  is  placed.  Knives, 
forks  and  spoons  are  laid  one-half  inch  from  the  edge  of  the 
table  and  are  arranged  in  the  order  in  which  they  will  be  used, 
the  first  required  being  placed  farthest  from  the  plate.  The 
knives  are  arranged  on  the  right  of  the  plate.  To  the  right  of 
the  knives  lay  the  spoon  for  the  soup,  just  outside  of  this  place 
the  oyster  fork,  then  the  spoons  as  needed.  To  the  left  of  plate 
are  the  forks  with  their  tines  turned  up :  the  fish  fork,  then  roast 
fork,  and  the  salad  fork  close  to  the  plate.  A  folded  napkin  may 
be  laid  upon  the  service  plate  if  the  first  course  is  not  already 
upon  the  table.  Place  cards  are  about  the  size  of  the  conven- 
tional visiting  card.  The  water  tumbler  is  placed  at  the  end  of 
the  knife  nearest  the  plate.  The  service  plate  should  not  be 
removed  until  the  meat  course  is  brought  in.  Whatever  is 
served  should  be  set  down  at  the  right,  whatever  passed  offered 
from  the  left,  that  the  guest  may4ielp  himself.  No  tray  is  used, 
but  the  maid  may  have  a  folded  napkin  in  her  hand  upon  which 
to  hold  the  plates  which  she  puts  before  the  guest. — Mrs.  K.  W. 
Williams,  Cynthiana,  Ky. 


DINNERS 


Grape  Fruit         Oyster  Cocktail 

Celery 
Potage  of  Fowl 

Consomme,  Royal 
Sliced  Tomatoes 

Olives  Radishes 

Filet  of  Halibut  aux  Fine  Herbes 
Sliced  Cucumbers 

Potatoes  Duchesse 
Breast    of  Domestic   Duck   with 

Mushrooms 
Fried  Black  Squirrel,  Sauce 

Bearnaise 

Fricassee    of    Rabbit,    Chasseur 
Pineapple  Fritters 

Escalante  Punch 
Roast  Young  Turkey,  Oyster 

Dressing 
Mashed  Turnips,  Cranberry 

Sauce 

Prime  Ribs  of  Beef  au  Jus 
Mashed  Potatoes 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 


Cauliflower  au  Gratin 

Waldorf  Salad 

Mince  Pie  Pumpkin  Pie 

English  Plum  Pudding,  Hard 

Sauce 
Tutti  Frutti  Ice  Cream, 

Assorted  Cake 
Edam  and  American  Cheese 

Water    Crackers 
Fruit  Demi  Tasse 


Chicken  a  1'Reine 
Celery  Olives 

Rock  Bass  Mailre  d'Hotel 

Cucumbers          Pommes  Natural 

Salmis  of  Mountain  Grouse, 

Chasseur 
Tomatoes  Farcie 
Saddle  of  Venison,  Currant  Jelly 
Candied  Yams 

Punch,  Fray  Marcos 
Strawberry  Shortcake 
Pumpkin  Pie 

Tutti  Frutti  Ice  Cream 

Cake 
Coffee   Noir 

Contributed. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


245 


A  DINNER  PARTY  TO  EIGHT  LADIES  SEVENTY  YEAR,S. 
"YOUNG." 

Bluepoints  on  half  shell,  laid  ont  a  plate  of  crushed  ice  and 
surrounding  a  cup,  made  to  resemble  a  large  yellow  tulip,  by 
cutting  a  lemon  down  half  way  in  quarters,  turning  back  the 
section  and  scooping  outthe  center,  replacing  with  a  cocktail 
mixture  into  which  the  oyster  was  dipped. 

Thin  salt  wafers  were  passed  with  this  course. 

Fried  Scrapple  with  very  thin  slices  of  lemon  on  top. 

Hot  mashed  potatoes,  covered  with  chopped  parsley. 

Hot  Rolls  Coffee 

Cheese   Balls  served   piping  Jiot, 

with  crisp  circular  slices  of 


French  Peas 
Buttered  Brown  Bread  and 

Olives 

Hot  Roast  Turkey 

Filbert   Balls   in   circles   of    Rice 

Sweet    Potatoes,    Southern    Style 

Spaghetti  with  Cheese 

Celerj'  Hearts 

Chicken   Salad   in  Lettuce   Cups, 
covered  with  Mayonnaise 


Toast 

Hot    Mince    Pie 
Ice   Cream 

White  and  Black  Cake 
Nuts  and  Bonbons  .    . ': 
Mrs.  Williams, 

Cynthiana,  Ky. 


DINNER 

Table  Decoration: 
American  Beauty  Roses. 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Celery  Ripe  Olives 

Broiled  Squab  en  Canape 
French  Peas 

Mashed  Potatoes 
Venison  Chops,  Currant  Jelly 
Browned  Sweet  Potatoes 
Lettuce    and    Tomatoes 

Mayonnaise 

Nepolitain  Ice  Cream  Cake 

Roquefort  Cheese 

Water  Crackers 
Demi   Tasse 
Mrs.   R.  C.  Wente, 

Williams.  Ariz. 


EASTER    LUNCHEON 

Tomato    Bisque    with    Whipped 

Cream 

Olives       Salted  Nuts       Radishes 
Small  Fish  or  Trout,  Lemon 

Butter 

Lattice   Potatoes 

Creamed    Chicken    in    Macaroni 

Mould 

Peas 

Asparagus  Salted  with 

.     •       Mayonnaise 
Wafers  and  Cream  Cheese  Balls 
Ice   Cream 

Lady  Fingers 
Tea  or  Coffee 


DINNER 


Table  Decoration: 
Grape  Fruit  Almonds 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Crackers  Celery 

Cream  Corn  Soup,  Crackers 

Queen  Olives 

Stuffed  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce 
Green   Peas 

Mashed  Potatoes 
Stuffed  Peppers 

Hot   Rolls 


Yellow  Roses. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 
.     ,       Tomato  Salad 

Saltines 
Strawberry  Ice  Cream,   Pound 

Cake 
Roquefort  Cheese 

Water  Crackers 
Bonbons  Demi  Tasse 

Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


246 


THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


AFTERNOON   LUNCHEONS 

English  Tea 
Thin  Slices  of  Bread  and  Butter 

Loaf  Cake 
Mrs.  Wm.  Hayward, 

Los  Angeles,  Calif. 


Wafers 
Fruit   Sandwiches 

Grape   Fruit   Salad 
Coffee 
Mrs.-Wm.  Ergmann, 

Los  Angeles,  Calif. 


Fruit  Salad  served  in  orange 

baskets 
Chocolate 

Contributed. 


Appropriate  near  Easter: 

Tomato  Jelly  molded  in  an 
egg  shell.  Serve  on  lettuce  with 
salad  dressing. 

Wafer 

Blanc    Mange   molded    in    egg 
shell.     Serve  with  custard. 
Cake  Coffee 

Mrs.   MacD.  Robinson, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Fruit  Salad  Crackers 

Leomnade         Pineapple   Ice 

Angel  Cake 
Miss  Margaret  Dermont, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Stuffed   Egg   Salad 

Ham  Sandwiches 
Olives 
Sweet  Punch 

Cantaloupe 
Miss  Edna  Buggeln, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Tomato  Salad 

Tongue  Sandwiches 

Sour  Pickles 
Cocoa  Raspberry   Ice 

Sponge  Cake 
Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Oyster  Patties 
Tomato  Salad 

Salted  Almonds 
Coffee 
Strawberries  and  Cream 

Wafers 
t        Mrs.  J.  W.  Daggs,   . 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Veal  Loaf 

Lettuce  Sandwiches 

Olives 

Swet   Punch 
Strawberry  Shortcake 
Mrs.  Martin  Buggeln, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Chicken  Salad 

Fruit  Salad 
Marguerites 
Coffee  Charlotte  Russe 

Devil's  Food 
Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Barney, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Beef    Croquettes 

Cheese    Sandwiches 
Pimolas  Chocolate 

Floating  Island 

Cookies 
Mrs.  Chas.   Lindstrom, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Sweetbread   Salad 

Lettuce   Sandwiches 
Almonds  Lemonade 

Strawberry  Shortcake 
Miss  Dorothy  Stark, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Grape  Fruit 

Chicken  Sandwiches 

Salted  Pecans         Cocoa 

Lemon  Jelly  and  Cream 

Wafers 
Miss  Harriette  Tefft, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Chicken   Salad  Pimolas 

Peanut  Butter  Sandwiches 

Coffee 

Strawberry  Ice 
Black  and  White  Cake 
Mrs.  P.  A.  Melick, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Shrimp  Salad 
Cheese  Sandwiches 

Coffee 

Lemon  Sherbet  Angel  Food 

Mrs.   Jas.   S.   Kennedy, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Fried  Chicken  Potato  Balls 

Hot  Rolls  Coffee 

Blanc   Mange 

Wafers 
Mrs.  Jas.  S.  Kennedy, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


247 


Celery  Salad  in  Spanish  Peppers 
Deviled   Ham   with 

Chopped  Eggs 

Sandwiches  Cheese 

Crackers  Coffee 

Mrs.  Wrn.  Ergmann, 

Los  Angeles,  Calif. 


Shrimp   Salad   in   Cucumber 

Shells 

Lamb  Tongue  Sandwiches 
Cake  Coffee 

Mrs.  Tilley, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 


Lamb    Salad 

Cheese  (with  Paprika  and 

Butter)    Sandwiches 

Lady  Fingers 

Ice  Cream 
Mrs.  Wm.  Hayward, 

Los  Angeles,   Calif. 


Chicken   Salad 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 
Coffee  Ice  Cream 

Devil's  Food 
Mrs.  Amos  Adams, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Chicken  Croquettes 

Hot  Rolls 
Almonds  Olives 

Coffee 
Orange  Sherbet 

Cookies 
Miss  Margarette  Dermont, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Combination   Salad 
Pressed  Chicken   Sandwiches 
Lemon    Ice 

Almond  Wafers 
Fruit  Punch 

Mrs.  Filley,  . 
Los  Angeles,   Calif. 


Lobster  Salad 

Cheese  Sandwiches 

Cocoa 

Blackberry  Ice 
Sponge  Cake 

Mrs.   Dermont, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Spanish  Luncheon 
Olives  Brown  Beans 

French  Bread 
Butter  Coffee 

Watermelon 
Mrs.  Wm.  Hayward, 

Los  Angeles,   Calif. 


Dutch  Luncheon 

Olives  Celery 

Schmierkase  Salad 
Spare  Ribs  Boiled   Potatoes 

Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes 
Bread  Butter 

Lemon  Pie  Coffee 

Mrs.  Wm.  Ergmann, 

Los  Angeles,   Calif. 


Thanksgiving 

Turkey   Sandwiches 

Cranberry  Tarts 
Coffee  ' 

Mince  Pie  Sweet  Cider 

Mrs.  Wm.  Dermont, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Minced  Turkey  on  Toast 

Cranberry  Jelly 
Olives  Chocolate 

Pumpkin   Pie 
Mrs.  P.  A.  Melick, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Turkey  Salad 
Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Cranberry   Sherbet 

Coffee  Suet  Pudding 

Mrs.  Jas.  S.  Kennedy, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Lettuce   Salad   with   Mayonnaise 

Dressing 

Sandwiches     made     of     ham     or 

cold  meat  ground  fine,  with 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Coffee 
Fruit  Salad  with  Cream 

Light  and  Dark  Cake 
Mrs.  A.  Willson, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Banana  Salad 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Olives  Coffee 

Peach  Frappe 

Angel  Cake 
Mrs.  Earl  Nordyke, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Chicken  Croquettes 

Rolls         Tomato  Jelly         Olives 

Prune  Whip  Cake 

Coffee 
Miss  Bertha  J.  Peet, 

Monticello    Ind. 


248 


THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


Chicken  Croquettes 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 
Hot  Rolls  Olives 

Salted   Almonds 
Pineapple   Ice 

Angel  Food  Chunks 

Coffee 
Mrs.   Ross   Barnard, 

Grand  Canyon,  Ariz. 


Chicken  Salad  Crackers 

Olives  Coffee 

Peaches  and  Cream 

Devil's  Pood 
Mrs.  A.  V.  Wagner, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Nut  and  Cabbage  Salad 

Ham  Sandwiches  Coffee 

Fruit  Jelly  and  Cream 

Wafers 
Mrs.  A.  R.  Montgomery, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


Chicken  Sandwiches  Olives 

Lemon  Sherbet 

Cake  Coffee 

Mrs.  James  Amundsen, 

Williams,  Ariz. 


LUNCHEON  TO   GIRL 
FRIENDS 

Table  Arrangement:  Lace 
Doilies  and  Centerpiece,  floral 
centerpiece,  Chrysanthemums 
and  vines. 

Oyster  Cocktail  Wafers 

Deviled  Clams  in  their  Shells 

Ribbon  Sandwiches 
Bouillon  Croutons 

Quail  on  Toast,  Orange  Sauce 

Fruit  Salad  Cheese  Wafers 

Ice  Cream  Cakes 

Coffee  Chiclets 


FISH    LUNCHEON 

Raw  Oysters  served  in  block  of 

ice 
Shad,  Tartar  Sauce  garnished 

with  parsley 
Sweetbreads,   Tomato  Sauce 

Boiled  Sardines  on  Toast 
Deviled    Chicken,    Lemon    Sauce 
Filets    of    Duck    with    Salad    of 

Lettuce 
Mayonnaise  of  Salmon, 

garnished  with  Shrimps 
Welsh   Rare-bit 

Charlotte  Russe 

Ice  Cream  Angel  Cake 

Bonbons 


BOY'S    BIRTHDAY    PARTY. 

(Prize  from  N.  F.  Magazine,  Mrs.  Woody.) 

The  table  was  so  much  admired  at  my  boy's  birthday  party, 
I  will  send  a  description. 

The  cover  was  made  of  cotton  batting  and  over  this  was 
thickly  spread  diamond  dust.  Smilax  was  pinned  in  festoons  to 
form  a  border,  circling  up  around  each  plate.  A  flat  center- 
piece of  large  feathery  ferns  was  held  in  place  by  a  five-burner 
silver  candelabra  with  pink  candles  and  shades.  At  either  end 
tall  cut  glass  vases  held  many  pink  carnations.  Gliding  from 
one  to  another  and  wrapping  in  and  around  the  center  was  pink 
ribbon,  and,  as  though  stepping  aside  to  avoid  being  caught  in 
it,  tiny  china  shepherdesses'  in  pink  held  aloft  pink  candles. 
Placer  plates  had  decorations  of  pinks  and  ferns. 

Cakes  and  ices  carried  out  the  color  scheme,  and  when  the 
bright  faces  of  the  little  folk  surrounded  the  table,  it  made  a 
glittering  and  beautiful  picture. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


249 


SPECIALS 


DINNER 


or 


First     Course  —  Grapefruit 

Cantaloupe. 

Second  Course — Oysters  or  Rus- 
sian Caviar. 
Third  Course — Soup. 
Fourth  Course — Fish. 
Fifth  Course — Entree. 
Sixth    Course — Roast    with    two 

or  three  vegetables. 

Seventh  Course — Game.  Sherbet. 

Eighth  Course — Salad. 

Ninth  Course — Dessert. 

Tenth  Course — Ice  Cream. 

Eleventh  Course — Crackers  and 

Cheese;    Bonbons, 
Twelfth   Course — Demi   Tasse. 
Contributed, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

SAINT  PATRICK'S  DAY 
DINNER 

Centerpiece — Shamrock. 

Muskmelon 
Pea  Soup 

Fish,  Potato  Croquettes 
Roast  Beef,  Atrichokes, 

Asparagus 
.   Lettuce  Salad 

Pie 
Pistachio   Ice   Cream 

Coffee 
(Use  green  whenever  possible.) 

SAINT    VAI/FNTINE    DINNER 

Centerpiece:  Bleeding  Hearts 

and   Ferns. 

Place  Cards:  Cupids  and  Hearts. 
Strawberries  on  Stems 
Tomato  Soup 

Sweetbread  Patties 
Roast  Beef        Potatoes         Beets 
Red  Apple  Salad    Cheese  Wafers 
Raspberry  Ice  Cream 

Fancy  Cakes 
Mint  Candies 

Demi  Tasse 

(The    heart   shapes    and    cupids 
wherever  possible) 


BREAKFAST 
April  First 

Oranges  sweetened  with  Salt 
Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit, 

sprinkled  with  Salt 
Sardine  Omelet,   very  sweet 
Syrup  made  of  vinegar  and 

bitter  chocolate 
Griddle  Cakes,  using  Quinine 
Doughnuts  filled  with  cotton 
Coffee  made  from  peas, 

seasoned   with   pepper 
(Pin  napkins  to  the  table  cloth, 
and  tie  chairs  to  table  legs.) 
Contributed, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

HALLOWE'EN  SUPPER. 

Decorations:   Yellow  and  Black. 
Centerpiece:      Pumpkin   holding 

Maidenhair   Fern. 
Favors:   Cats,  Witches,  Bunnies. 

Grapefruit 
(cut  in  Jack  o'Lantern  faces) 

Brown  Bread  and  Cheese 
Fruit    Salad    served    in    Orange 

Cups 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Gingersnaps  with  Almond  Eyes 
Hallowe'en  Punch 

DINNER 

First  Course — -Strawberries    on 

Stems. 

Second  Course — Oyster  Cocktail. 

Third  Course — Soup. 

Fourth  Course — Fish. 

Fifth  Course — Chicken  Patties. 

Sixth  Course — Roast  with  three 

Vegetables. 
Seventh  Course — Frozen  Punch. 

Eighth  Course — Game. 
Ninth  Course — Ice  .Cream. 

Tenth  Course — Pie. 
Eleventh     Course  —  Fruits    and 

Sweets. 

Twelfth   Course — Black   Coffee. 
Contributed, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


250  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

QUANTITIES    OF   REFRESHMENTS    FOR    SERVING    50    PEOPLE. 

Coffee — three  gallons.     One  and  one-half  pounds. 

Coffee,  black — two  and  one-quarter  gallons.     One  and  one- 
half  pounds. 

Chocolate — two  gallons.     One  pound. 

When  both  tea  and  coffee  are  served.    Tea,  one  gallon. 

Coffee— one  and  one-half  gallons,  cube  sugar,  two  pounds; 
whipped  cream,  two  quarts,  each  quart,  twenty-five  spoonfuls. 

Lemonade  or  Fruit  Punch — two  and  one-half  gallons. 

Frappe  or  Sherbet — three  gallons. 

Bouillon — three  gallons. 

Ice  Cream — three  gallons. 

Ices  to  serve  in  small  sherbet  glasses — two  gallons. 

Bonbons — four  pounds. 

Salted  nuts — four  pounds. 

Berries — eight  to  ten  quarts ;  sugar  for  berries,  two  pounds. 

Raw  Oyster,  four  to  each  person — two  hundred. 

Large  Oysters  in  Coaquillas — eight  quarts. 

Ham — one  small  or  one-half  large  one. 

Chicken  or  Turkey,  dressed,  but  not  cooked — twenty-five 
pounds. 

Salad  or  Slaw — two  gallons. 

Rolls — six  dozen;  butter  for  rolls,  one  pound. 

Sandwiches — five  loaves  of  bread  and  two  pounds  of  butter. 

Fruit  Jelly — six  quarts. 

Cakes,  loaf  or  layer — four  or  five. 

Cheese — two  pounds. 

Potato  Chips — four  pounds. 

Wafers — five  boxes. 

Olives — two  quarts. 

Sweet  Pickles — one  and  one-half  quarts. 

Copied  and  revised  by  Mrs.  H.  F.  Adams. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  251 


252  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  253 


RECIPE  FOR  COOKING  HUSBANDS. 

One  of  the  lecturers  before  the  Baltimore  cooking  school 
gave  the  following  recipe  for  cooking  husbands : 

"A  good  many  husbands  are  utterly  spoiled  by  mismanage- 
ment. Some  women  go  about  it  as  if  their  husbands  were 
bladders,  and  blow  them  up.  Others  keep  them  constantly  in 
hot  water.  Others  let  them  freeze  by  their  carelessness  and 
indifference.  Some  keep  them  in  a  stew  by  irritating  ways 
and  words;  others  roast  them.  Some  keep  them  in  pickle  all 
their  lives.  It  cannot  be  supposed  that  any  husband  will  be 
tender  and  good,  managed  in  this  way,  but  they  will  be  truly 
delicious  when  properly  treated.  In  selecting  your  husband 
you  should  not  be  guided  by  the  silvery  appearance,  as  in  buy- 
ing mackerel,  nor  by  the  golden  tint,  as  if  you  wanted  salmon. 
Be  sure  to  select  him  yourself,  as  tastes  differ.  Do  not  go  to 
the  market  for  him  as  the  best  are  always  brought  to  your  door. 
It  is  far  better  to  have  none  unless  you  will  patiently  learn  how 
to  cook  him.  A  preserving  kettle  of  the  finest  porcelain  is  the 
best,  but  if  you  have  nothing  but  an  earthenware  pipkin  it  will 
do  with  care.  See  that  the  line  in  which  you  wrap  him  is  nicely 
washed  and  mended,  with  the  required  number  of  buttons  and 
strings  tightly  sewed  on.  Tie  him  in  the  kettle  with  a  strong 
silk  cord  called  comfort,  as  the  one  called  duty  is  apt  to  be  weak. 
Make  a  clear,  steady  fire  out  of  love,  neatness  and  cheerfulness. 
Set  him  as  near  this  as  seems  to  agree  with  him.  If  he  sputters 
and  frizzes  do  not  be  anxious ;  some  husbands  do  this  until  they 
are  quite  done.  Add  a  little  sugar  in  the  form  of  what  confec- 
tioners call  kisses,  but  no  vinegar  or  pepper  on  any  account.  A 
little  spice  improves  him,  but  it  must  be  used  with  judgment. 
Do  not  stick  any  sharp  instruments  into  him  to  see  if  he  is  be- 
coming tender.  Stir  him  gently,  watching  the  while,  lest  he  lie 
too  flat  and  close  to  the  kettle  and  so  become  useless.  You  can- 
not fail  to  know  when  he  is  done.  If  thus  treated  you  will  find 
him  very  relishable,  agreeing  nicely  with  you  and  the  children, 
and  he  will  keep  as  long  as  you  want  unless  you  become  care- 
less and  set  him  in  too  cold  a  place." 


MISCELLANEOUS 


FOll   RATTLESNAKE    BITE. 

Apply  soda  slightly  moistened  to  make  a  paste  to  the  wound. 
When  it  becomes  discolored,  remove  and  put  on  a  fresh  appli- 
cation until  the  soda  ceases  to  be  discolored. — Contributed. 

THE  BUG  REMEDY. 

Ammonia,  corosive  sublimate,  terpentine.  The  Williams 
Drug  Company  knows  how,to  proportion  it.  It  is  decidedly  the 
best  ever  used. 

Quick  silver  and  white  of  an  egg  destroys  bed  bugs. — Con- 
tributed. 

NECESSITIES. 

Beef  stock  will  be  found  useful  for  gravies,  sauces,  etc.  Beef 
stock  will  not  keep  longer  than  a  week. 

Browned  flour  is  always  useful  and  should  be  kept  on  hand. 

THE  DOUGLASS  MIXTURE. 

This  ought  to  be  printed  everywhere :  One-half  popnd  cop- 
peras, one  ounce  sulphuric  acid  and  two  gallons  soft  water. 
Be  careful  with  the  sulphuric  acid.  Let  settle  twenty-four 
hours  and  drain  off.  Put  in  bottles  or  stone  jars.  Add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  mixture  to  each  pint  of  drinking  water  for  fowls. 

"Since  I've  been  married  I  don't  get  half  enough  to  eat." 
"Well,  you  must  remember  that  we  are  one  now." 

When  frying  eggs  after  frying  bacon  or  ham,  sprinkle  flour 
in  the  pan  to  prevent  eggs  from  sticking  to  pan. — Contributed. 

SURE    DEATH   TO   FLIES. 

Instead  of  bothering  with  sticky  fly  paper,  try  this  method : 
Put  two  teasponfuls  of  formaldehyde  in  a  pint  of  water,  pour 
into  saucers  and  set  on  table.  Flies  are  attracted  and  drink  the 
water;  some  die  in  water  and  others  drop  near  and  are  easily 
swept  up  and  burned. 

FOR  MOTHS. 

Saturate  an  old  sheet  with  formaldehyde  and  hang  up  in  the 
closet,  first  stopping  up  both  cracks  and  keyhole  and  leave  for 
twenty-four  hours.  One  or  two  such  applications  through  the 
season  will  prove  sufficient. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  255 

TO  SET  COLOR  IN  SUMMER  DRESSES. 

Plunge  them  into  boiling  water  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
coarse  salt  which  has  been  previously  melted.  The  color  in  the 
daintiest  gown  will  not  fade  hereafter. — Mrs.  Finney,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

How  to  gain  flesh — buy  a  butcher  shop. 
HAND   LOTION. 

Two  ounces  of  glycerine,  five  ounces  alcohol,  one  dram  am- 
monia, ten  drops  carbolic  acid,  one  dram  extract  violet. 

HAIR  TONIC. 

One  ounce  lanoline,  one  ounce  coco  butter  or  lard,  one  dram 
coal  oil,  one-half  dram  tincture  cantharides,  one-hal  fdram  lis- 
terine,  one-half  dram  oil  peppermint.  Melt  lanoline,  slowly  add 
lard  and  then  others.  Apply  two  or  three  times  per  week  to  the 
roots  of  the  hair  with  tips  of  fingers.  Rub  in  thoroughly  with 
balls  of  fingers. 

"I  saw  a  big  rat  in  my  cook-stove  and  when  I  went  for  my  revolver 
he  ran  out." 

"Did  you  shoot  him?" 

"No;  he  was  out  of  my  range." 

CARE   OF   CHILDREN'S  TEETH. 

The  first  thing  to  be  said  in  regard  to  children'  teeth  is  never 
alloiv  a  pacifier  under  any  circumstances,  not  only  because  it  is 
not  sanitary,  but  because,  it  in  each  and  every  case  causes  a  de- 
formity that  can  never  be  perfectly  corrected  in  after  life  by 
surgery  or  otherwise. 

Thumb  sucking  is  almost  or  quite  as  bad,  so  mothers,  do  not 
allow  your  little  ones  to  continue  this  habit,  because  is  looks 
"cute"  while  baby  is  tiny,  as  the  time  will  come  when  baby  is  an 
Over-grown  boy  or  girl  and  it  does  not  look  cute,  and  in  the 
meantime,  the  damage  has  been  done.  If  the  teeth  protrude,  the 
upper  bone  in  the  mouth  has  become  misshapen  and  the  whole 
facial  expression  has  changed  for  life  and  no  two  teeth  in  the 
mouth  will  ever  be  in  the  place  intended  for  them,  thus  causing 
mouth  breathing,  which  in  turn  causes  "adenoids"  or  other 
trouble  with  the  throat  and  nose.  ' 

After  two  years  a  child  is  supposed  to  have  all  the  temporary 
or  baby  teeth,  which  should  be  cleaned  (with  a  nice  little  brush 
all  his  own)  every  day  by  mother,  and  closely  watched  for  small 
black  spots,  which  as  soon  as  found  must  receive  the  family 
dentists'  care.  Often  these  little  spots  appear  as  early  as  three 


256  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

I 

years,  and  if  taken  in  time  may  be  treated  by  him  without  any 
drilling  or  filling,  which  in  most  cases  is  quite  distressing  to  the 
little  one.  However,  these  twenty  teeth  must  be  kept  in  their 
proper  places  until  time  for  them  to  be  replaced  by  the  permanent 
ones,  which  only  begin  to  appear  at  six  years,  and  if  a  child  has 
never  been  taken  to  the  dentist  before,  it  must  be  taken  at  the  age 
of  six.  Mothers,  if  you  wish  healthy,  beautiful  teeth  for  your 
little  ones,  remember  this. — Florence  R.  Atkinson,  D.  D.  S., 
Chicago,  111. 

Jars — To  prevent:  Coax  "husbands"  to  buy  "Williams  Library  Asso- 
ciation Cook  Book." 

CURRY    POWDER. 

Two  ounces  mustard,  two  ounces  black  pepper,  six  ounces 
coriande  seed,  six  ounces  tumeric,  one-half  ounce  red  pepper, 

one  ounce  cardaman,  one  ounce  cummin  seed  and  ground 
cinnamon.  Pound  fine,  put  in  a  bottle,  cork  tight  and  keep 
for  seasoning  gravies,  etc. — Mrs.  \\'m.  F.  Dermont,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

TO    KEEP    NEEDLES. 

A  soda  mint  bottle,  with  a  little  screw  top,  makes  an  excellent 
holder  for  needles,  to  keep  in  the  workbag.  It  is  especially  good 
for  damp  climates,  as  the  needles  will  not  rust.  It  can  be  made 
a  thing  of  beauty  by  covering  it  with  a  bit  of  the  material  of 
which  the  bag  is  made  (preferably  silk,  as  this  will  work  up  bet- 
ter) ;  and  a  workbag  given  for  a  present  is  doubly  acceptable  if 
some  such  little  thing  as  this  is  added  to  give  a  distinctive  touch. 

SMALL  POX  AND   SCARLET  FEVER  REMEDY. 

One  grain  sulphate  zinc,  one  grain  Fox  Glove  (digitalas),  half 
teaspoon  sugar.  Mix  with  two  teaspoons  of  water,  when 
thoroughly  mixed,  add  four  ounces  of  water.  Take  a  table- 
spoon every  hour. — Contributed. 

TO  TAKE  SPOTS  OUT   OF   WOOL   IX   CLOTH. 

Two  ounces  of  ammonia,  one  ounce  castile  soap,  one-four 
ounce  saltpeter,  one  quart  rain  water. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Cole, 
Middletown,  Conn. 

RECIPE  FOR  REMOVING  GREASE  SPOTS. 

One  pint  aqua  ammonia,  one-half  pound  best  white  soap, 
one  ounce  saltpetre,  one  gallon  water.  Shave  the  soap  fine,  add 
the  water,  boil  until  soap  is  dissolved.  Let  it  get  cold,  add 
salt  petre,  stirring-  until  dissolved.  Strain,  let  suds  settle,  skim 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  257 

off  dry  suds,  add  ammonia.  Bottle  and  cork  at  once.  Direc- 
tions for  use :  For  grease  spots  pour  upon  the  article  to  be 
cleaned  a  quantity,  rubbing  well  with  a  clean  sponge,  and  ap- 
plying to  both  sides  of  the  article  you  are  cleaning.  Upon  car- 
pets or  coarse  goods  when  the  grease  is  hard  and  dry  use  a  stiff 
brush,  and  wash  with  clear,  cold  water.  One  application  is  all 
that  is  necessary  for  fresh  grease  spots,  but  for  old  and  dried 
a  second  may- be  required.  For  Shampooing:  Take  a  small 
quantity  with  an  equal  quantity  of  water, .apply  to  hair  with 
stiff  brush,  and  wash  out  with  clear  water.  For  Cleaning  Sil- 
ver Ware,  etc. :  Buy  five  cents  worth  of  whiting,  mix  a  small 
quantity,  rub  with  rag.  For  Killing  Bed  Bugs  :  Apply  to  places 
they  frequent.  It  will  not  injure  the  finest  laces  or  silk. — 
John  B.  Campbell,  Williams,  Ariz. 

TO  WASH  CENTERPIECE. 

Never  put  the  embroidered  centerpiece  in  with  the  family 
laundry.  Wash  them  by  themselves  in  suds  of  warm  water 
and  pure  soap.  The  ordinary  yellow  kitchen  soap  is  altogether 
too  strong  for  delicate  work.  Wash  by  rubbing  between  the 
hards,  and  rinse  well  in  two  clear  waters.  In  wringing,  put  it 
between,  two  towels  and  twist.  The  object  is  to  keep  the  parts 
of  the  embroidery  from  touching  each  other  and  prevent  the 
colors  from  running.  Let  the  piece  get  nearly  dry,  place  it  on  a 
well-padded  ironing  board,  lay  a  piece  of  white  cloth  over  it 
and  press  with  the  iron.  Do  not  have  the  iron  hot  enough  to 
steam.  Do  not  press  too  hard  or  it  will  mat  the  threads  in  the 
embroidery.  In  case  a  part  of  the  linen  should  get  too  dry,  lay  a 
damp  cloth  on  it  and  press  over  that. — Contributed. 

TO    TAKE    IRON-RUST    OUT    OF    LINEN. 

Put  two  or  three  pints  of  water  in  the  tea-kettle  and  let  come 
to  a  boil.  Rub  the  spots  on  linen  with  fresh  cut  lemon  and 
hold  over  spout  of  the  kettle.  If  spot  does  not  disapepar  re- 
peat until  it  does. — Mrs.  Tom  Smith. 

Don't  pick  a  quarrel  before  it's  ripe. 

TO  WASH   POINT  LACE,   TATTING   OR   ANY  DOILY   WITH   LACE 

EDGE. 

Cleanse  gently  with  warm  water  and  a  pure,  white  soap, 
squeezing,  not  wringing.  Have  the  last  rinsing  water  in  a 
vessel  sufficiently  large  that  the  doily  will  float  out  flat,  then 
slip  under  it  an  old  napkin  or  towel,  roll  up,  and  let  lay  a 
while  before  ironing.  With  such  a  process  the  edges  do  not 
mat,  but  may  be  shaken  out  like  new. 


258  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

TO  WASH  BEDDING,  OR  OVERALLS,  OR  ANY  HEAVY  GARMENT. 

Lay  article  flat  on  table  or  washboard  and  with  ordinary 
scrub-brush,  soap  and  warm  water,  scrub  thoroughly  on  one 
side  then  on  the  other  until  all  parts  have  been  covered.  In 
rinsing,  souse  it  up  and  down  in  clean  water  and  hang  up  to 
dry  without  wringing,  By  this  method  there  will  be  no  streaks 
or  wrinkles  in  the  garments. 

\Yhen  cooking  anything  which  is  likely  to  borl  over,  such  as 
rice,  macaroni,  breakfast  foods,  postum  cereal,  etc.,  add  a  small 
quantity  of  butter  when  the  food  is  placed  on  the  stove  and  all 
trouble  will  be  avoided. 

"A  pint  is  a  pound  the  world  around." 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  259 


OYSTERS 


OYSTERS  A   L' AMBROSIA. 

Take  three  dozen  oysters  and  cut  them  into  dice ;  make  some 
white  sauce  by  taking  some  of  the  oyster  liquor;  put  this  with 
a  little  red  pepper  and  half  a  cupful  of  milk  into  a  basin,  then 
put  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire;  take  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  mix  it  into  a  paste  with 
a  little  of  the  oyster  liquor,  and  then  add  the  strained  liquor 
to  it ;  pour  into  the  saucepan  with  the  melted  butter,  and  cook 
it  over  the  fire  until  thick ;  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  add  to  this  one  cupful  of  liquid  aspic 
jelly,  and  then  stir  in  the  chopped  oysters  very  lightly  and  a  gill 
of  cream;  turn  out  on  a  plate  and  place  on  ice  till  cold  and 
firm.  When  it  is  so,  shape  it  into  round  balls  of  equal  size, 
about  the  size  of  tangerine  oranges ;  smoothe  them  over  with  a 
knife  clipped  into  hot  water,  and  place  on  ice,  or  mold  them 
into  balls.  Have  ready  some  stiff  aspic  jelly  flavored 
with  a  few  drops  of  chili  vinegar,  and  when  it  is  in  a  semi-liqui- 
fied state  and  beginning  to  set,  clip  each  oyster  ball  into  it.  This 
is  best  clone  by  running  a  thread  through  each  ball  and  dipping 
into  the  jelly,  or  lining  the  balls  with  aspic  and  filling  in  with 
the  oyster  mixture.  They  should  be  colored  red,  green,  yellow 
and  white,  and  arranged  in  a  pile  like  cannon  shot;  shredded 
celery,  sippets  of  lemon,  and  chopped  aspic  may  be  used  as 
garnish. 

OYSTERS    IN    BLANKETS. 

Have  thin  slices  of  bacon,  roll  each  oyster  in  a  slice  and 
fasten  with  a  small  toothpick.  Have  the  frying  pan  quite  hot ; 
put  in  the  rolls  and  cook  till  the  bacon  is  crisp,  pouring  off  the 
fat  as  it  accumulates  in  the  pan.  Serve  on  fingers  of  crisp 
toast. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Dinney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL.. 

Three  teaspoons  horseradish,  three  teaspoons  vinegar,  five 
teaspoons  lemon  juice,  one-half  teaspoon  tobasco  sauce,  salt  to 
taste,  and  one  pint  of  oysters.  Mix  and  serve  in  tall,  thin 
glasses.  This  recipe  will  serve  six  people. — Mrs.  Roy  Perkins, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

OYSTER   COCKTAIL.. 

Mix  together  the  strained  parts :  One-half  lemon,  one-half 
teaspoonful  vinegar,  eight  drops  tobasco  sauce,  one-third  tea- 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  261 

spoonful  mixed  horseradish,  one-half  teaspoonful  tomato  cat- 
sup. Let  this  stand  until  needed,  in  a  cool  place.  Have  glass 
in  which  this  is  served  very  cold  and  pour  the  above  ingredients 
over  four  or  five  small  oysters. — Miss  Alma  Peterson,  Trout 
Creek,  Mich. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 

Mix  together  the  strained  parts  of,  one-half  lemon,  one-half 
teaspoonful  vinegar,  eight  drops  tobasco  sauce,  one-third  tea- 
sponful  prepared  horseradish,  one-half  teaspoonful  tomato  cat- 
sup. Add  dozen  small  Bluepoints,  let  stand  five  minutes.  Keep 
on  ice  until  needed.  Serve  two  or  three  oysters  in  each  glass  or 
dish.  Delicious. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter,  Hackensack,  N.  J. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 

One  cup  chili  sauce,  five  drops  lemon  juice,  one-half  tea- 
sponful  mixed  horseradish,  three  drops  Worcestershire  sauce, 
two  drops  tobasco  sauce.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Set  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve.  Serve  four  small  oysters  in 
each  glass  or  dish,  pouring  above  ingredients  over  oysters. 
This  serves  six  persons. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

OYSTER   COCKTAIL,. 

One  teaspoon  of  grated  horseradish,  one  tablespoon  of  to- 
mato catsup,  one  tablespoon  of  white  wine  vinegar,  one  table- 
spoon of  lemon  juice,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  a  little  less  of  paprika.  This  makes 
enough  for  twelve  glasses.  Place  six  oysters  in  each  glass  and 
pour  over,  and  leave  twenty  minutes  or  more  in  a  very  cold 
place  before  serving. — Mrs.  Dan  Bradley,  Manistee,  Mich. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 

Open  eight  small  bluepoints  over  a  basin,  being  sure  to  save 
all  the  liquor ;  season  with  two  dessertspoonfuls  of  catsup,  six 
drops  of  lemon  juice,  two  drops  of  Worcestershire  sauce;  a 
dash  of  tobasco  sauce ;  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt.  Set 
on  ice  until  ready  to  serve.  Serve  five  in  small,  high-stemmed 
glasses. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS  OX  TOAST. 

Drain  off  liquor  of  twenty-five  small  oysters,  one  cup  white 
sauce,  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

White  Sauce   (for  Above). 

Two  teaspoons  butter,  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour, 
one  cup  hot  milk,  one-third  teaspoon  celery  salt  and  pepper 


262  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

mixed.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  stir  quickly,  add  the 
hot  milk  very  slowly.  Cook  over  moderate  heat  until  thick; 
add  seasoning.  Put  oysters  in  a  granite  pan  without  water; 
stir  slightly.  Soon  as  heated  sufficient  liquor  comes  from  them 
to  prevent  burning.  \Yhen  the  edges  curl  they  are  cooked. 
Drain,  saving  the  liquor;  add  the  lemon  juice  to  the  oysters 
and  add  the  oysters  to  the  hot  white  sauce,  mixing  well ;  use 
the  liquor  to  soften  the  toast.  Serve  at  once  on  toast. — Miss 
Elva  Burns,  Cliffs,  Ariz. 

OYSTER  DARIOL.S. 

Take  twelve  oysters  and  plump  them,  strain  and  cut  into 
dice.  Blend  together  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour-.  Add  the  oyster  liquor,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  two 
tablesponfuls  of  cream,  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika. 
Stir  till  boiling,  then  pour  over  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs ; 
now  add  the  oysters;  butter  some  dariol  or  timbale  molds,  fill 
with  the  mixture,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  steam  for  twenty 
minutes,  turn  out  gently  onto  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  over  with 
finely  chopped  parsley  and  serve  at  once. — Contributed. 

FRIED   OYSTERS. 

After  wiping  oysters  dry,  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs;  either  fry  in  butter  in 
frying  pan,  browning  on  both  sides,  or  drop  in  deep  fat  and 
fry  till  brown. — Manistee  Public  School. 

FRIED   OYSTERS. 

Take  good  sized  oysters,  put  in  colander  and  drain,  then 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  roll  in  egg,  then  in  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  either  deep  lard  or  butter. — Mrs.  Dan  Brad- 
ley, Manistee,  Mich. 

OYSTERS  SERVED  IN  ICE. 

Take  a  thick  clear  block  of  ice  weighing  about  seven  pounds. 
\Yith  a  red  hot  iron  mark  out  a  space,  leaving  a  thick  wall  of 
ice.  Melt  out  the  center  from  this,  empty  out  the  water  and  fill 
the  space  with  oysters.  Place  on  a  flat  dish,  garnish  with 
sliced  lemon  and  bunches  of  fresh  parsley.  Serve  with  chili 
sauce. 

KROMESKIES  OF  OYSTERS. 

Open  three  dozen  oysters,  taking  care  not  to  spill  the  liquor. 
Chop  the  oysters,  and  mix  with  them  an  equal  quantity  of 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  263 

finely  chopped  cold  chicken  and  six  mushrooms,  also  chopped 
up.  Put  these  into  a  saucepan,  strain  in  the  oyster  liquor,  and 
set  the  pan  on  a  slow  fire.  Stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  a  very  little  salt  and  red  pepper. 
Stir  gently  until  the  mixture  thickens,  and  when  quite  thick, 
turn  it  out  to  cool  on  a  plate.  When  it  is  cold,  form  it  into 
little  cork-shaped  rolls  about  two  inches  long.  Cut  some  very 
thin  pieces  of  rather  fat  bacon  about  two  and  a  half  inches 
broad  by  three  inches  long.  On  the  smaller  side  of  each  of 
these  lay  a  piece  of  the  mixture,  so  that  it  will  have  the  three- 
inch  length  to  wrap  around,  fold  it  into  little  rolls,  and  dip 
these  in  batter.  Fry  in  smoking  hot  fat,  drain,  and  serve 
very  hot. — Contributed,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

MOCK  OYSTERS. 

To'  the  contents  of  a  can  of  corn  add  a  half  cupful  of  milk, 
two  eggs,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  flour  enough  to  make 
stiff  batter.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  lard,  and  fry  a  nice 
brown. — Contributed. 

OYSTER  OMELET. 

Twenty  oysters,  four  eggs,  eight  button  mushrooms,  and 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Separate  the  yolks  from  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  with  a  fork,  and  add  the 
cream ;  beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiffly,  add  them  to  the 
yolks,  cream  and  salt,  pepepr  and  paprika.  Melt  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
then  put  the  oysters  and  mushrooms  in  the  center  of  the  pan, 
and  cook  for  four  minutes.  Serve  immediately. — Contributed. 

OYSTERS  FOR  PATTIES. 

Pint  of  small  oysters  and  liquor  put  on  fire,  add  butter  half 
the  size  of  an  egg,  one-half  cupful  sweet  cream;  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Let  come  to  a  good  scald.  If  not  thick  enough  add 
teaspoonful  flour.  Put  in  crusts  just  before  serving. — Con- 
tributed, Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

OYSTER    PATTIE    FILLING. 

One  cup  of  oyster  liquor,  one  cup  cream,  heated  and  thick- 
ened with  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Scald  oyster  (allowing  as  many 
as  you  please  for  each  pattie)  until  the  gills  open.  While 
these  are  scalding,  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Now  draw  the 
hot  dressing  to  the  back  of  the  stove  and  add  the  oysters 
(drained  from  the  liquid)  and  the  yolks  of  eggs,  stirring  until 


264  THE  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 

like  a  custard  and  not  a  bit  longer ;  keep  very  hot  by  setting  in 
a  dish  of  hot  water.  Serve  as  soon  as  possible,  filling  the  pattie 
shells  generously. — Mrs.  A.  O.  Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Line  some  deep  gem  pans  with  puff  paste,  put  a  teaspoonful 
of  cream  into  each,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  and  a  little 
tarragon  and  chervil,  and  season  with  mace,  red  pepper,  and 
nutmeg  to  taste.  Put  two  oysters  in  each  of  the  patties,  sprin- 
kle with  a  little  grated  lemon  rind  and  a  small  quantity  of 
lemon  juice,  moisten  with  oyster  liquor,  cover  with  bread 
crumbs,  garnish  the  tops  with  a  ring  of  puff  paste,  place  on  a 
baking  tin,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Serve  as  soon  as  they  are  done  on  a  hot  dish  garnished  with 
sprigs  of  water  cress. — Contributed. 

OYSTER  PIE. 

Saute  a  small  slice  of  ham  in  pieces  of  its  own  fat  until 
brown,  then  cut  into  strips  an  inch  wide  and  two  inches  long. 
This  size  makes  easy  service.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and 
simmer  until  tender;  then  add  to  the  casserole  with  a  pint  of 
oysters ;  dot  with  butter  and  dust  with  pepper,  adding  more  salt 
if  the  ham  should  not  be  extra  salt.  Cover  with  little  balls 
made  of  raised  bread  dough,  placing  them  about  half  an  inch 
apart.  Cook  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  crust  is  done  and 
delicately  browned.  If  preferred,  the  biscuits  may  be  made 
from  baking  powder  mixture.  It  is  much  better  to  cut  the 
dough  into  biscuits  for  the  cover  as  it  bakes  better  and  is  less 
liable  to  become  doughy  and  soggy.  The  bread  dough  must 
have  extra  shortening  added  to  it  so  that  it  will  not  be  as  tough 
as  required  for  bread.  The  balls  are  made  after  the  second 
rising. — Contributed. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT  OYSTER,  MEAT  OR  VEGETABLE  PATTIES. 

Cut  oblong  cavity  in  top  of  biscuit,  remove  top  carefully  and 
all  inside  shreds,  forming  a  shell.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  put  small  pieces  of  butter  in  bottom,  and  fill  the  shell 
with  drained,  picked  and  washed  oysters.  Season  with  addi- 
tional salt  and  pepper.  Replace  top  of  biscuit  over  oysters, 
then  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Place  in  a  covered  pan  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Pour  oyster  liquor  or  cream  sauce  over 
it.  Shell  fish,  vegetables,  or  meats  may  also  be  used. — Con- 
tributed. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  265 

SCRAMBLED   OYSTERS. 

One  pint  fresh  oysters,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoons  milk, 
three  crackers  (rolled),  salt  and  pepper.  Scramble  in  hot  but- 
ter.— Mrs.  W.  A.  Campbell,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

SCALLOPED    OYSTERS. 

Place  in  bake  dish  a  layer  of  seasoned  bread  crumbs,  next  a 
layer  of  seasoned  oysters,  and  so  on  until  your  dish  is  filled. 
Between  each  layer,  pour  over  it,  the  mixed  liquor,  beaten  egg, 
and  little  pieces  of  butter.  If  more  moisture  is  needed,  use 
sweet  milk.  On  the  top  put  moistened  cracker  crumbs.  Bake 
twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  lemon  in  quarters. — Mrs. 
Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

OYSTERS  IN  THEIR   SHELLS. 

Dissolve  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  chopped 
mushrooms ;  add  twelve  oysters  with  their  liquor,  season  with 
a  little  salt,  red  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.  When 
the  oysters  are  hot  add  one  hard  cooked  egg,  cut  into  slices. 
Allow  the  whole  to  simmer  for  five  minutes,  and  fill  the  oyster 
shells  with  this.  Cover  it  with  a  mixture  of  bread  crumbs  and 
grated  cheese,  and  sprinkle  with  a  few  drops  of  melted  butter. 
Brown  the  top,  and  serve  hot,  garnished  with  parsley. 


266  THE,  ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


PASTRY  AND   PIES 


"What  moistens  the  lip,  and  what  brightens  the  eye; 
What  calls  back  the  past  like  the  rich  pumpkin  pie." 

The  butter  for  pastry  should  be  firm  and  tough.  For  pie 
paste  the  lard  should  be  fresh  and  firm,  and  the  pastes  mixed  with 
ice  water  and  worked  up  in  a  cool  place  till  ready  to  be  baked. 
To  prevent  the  shrinking  of  puff  paste,  it  should  rest  after  it 
is  made  ready  for  the  oven,  and  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  from 
fifteen  to  thirty  minutes. 

The  baking  of  pastry  requires  a  brisk  heat.  Puff  paste 
hotter  than  pie  paste  or  crust.  Puff  paste  should  not  be  baked 
with  other  articles  which  make  steam,  because  this  prevents 
rising ;  and  when  the  pies  and  patties  have  risen,  the  heat  may 
be  decreased  by  opening  the  damper  to  prevent  taking  too 
much  color.  To  bake  patties  and  other  puff  paste  goods,  the 
pans  should  be  wet  with  water,  and  not  greased.  For  pie  paste 
the  tins  and  tart  forms  require  greasing.  In  pie  making  two 
kinds  of  paste  are  used.  The  paste  for  the  upper  crust  is  much 
richer  than  that  used  for  bottom  crust,  because  if  the  rich 
crust  were  used  for  the  bottom  it  would  become  too  soggy. 
The  trimmings  left  over  from  top  crust  can  be  used  for  the 
under  crust  next  day. 

To  obtain  a  nice  deep  baked  crust,  roll  out  the  bottom  a  little 
thicker  than  usual,  trim  the  sides,  and  prick  the  paste  all  over 
with  a  fork,  to  prevent  blistering;  dust  with  a  little  flour,  plac- 
ing an  empty  pie  tin  with  a  clean  bottom  on  the  top  of  the 
paste  (the  bottom  of  the  tin  may  be  greased  lightly  to  prevent 
adhering  to  the  paste).  Put  the  bottom  crust  in  oven  and 
bake.  When  the  paste  which  shows  between  the  two  tins 
begins  to  color,  the  top  tin  may  be  removed  and  the  baking 
finished.  Cream  and  lemon  filling  for  open  pies  should  be  filled 
in  the  oven  while  hot. 

CHERRY  TARTS. 

Drain  one  can  preserved  cherries.  Make  a  delicate  crust 
and  line  a  pie  tin.  Bake  light  brown.  Fill  with  the  cherries 
and  cover  with  juice  off  the  can  boiled  dowrn  thick  with 
more  sugar.  Turn  this  hot  very  slowly  over  the  fruit  and  set 
in  a  warm  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  cold  with  or  without 
cream, — J.  W.  Baylis,  Williams,  Ariz.. 


268  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CHEESE  TARTS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  lemon  (grated 
rind  and  pulp),  two  beaten  eggs.  Boil  all  together,  line  pie 
pan  or  tart  form  with  pie  crust,  put  in  filling  and  bake. — Mrs. 
Louis  Wuichet,  Chicago,  111. 

DATE    TARTS. 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  four  cups  of  granulated  sugar  sifted 
five  times,  two  pounds  of  almonds  chopped  fine,  one  and  one- 
fourth  pounds  of  dates  chopped  fine,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla;  beat  eggs  stiff,  gradually  add  sugar,  add  one-half  of 
dates  and  one-half  of  nuts,  mix,  add  rest  of  dates,  nuts,  and 
vanilla.  Grease  and  flour  pans. — Miss  Dempsey,  Manistee, 
Michigan. 

CIXXAMOX   TARTS. 

Ingredients — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  cinnamon  mixed  with  three  tablespoons  gran- 
ulated sugar,  one  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  blanched  almonds  or  seeded  raisins. 
Method — Sugar  to  remove  lumps,  before  measuring.  Cream 
the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  thoroughly  beaten  eggs  and  the 
baking  powder  sifted  with  the  flour.  Roll  thin  as  possible,  cut 
in  diamond  shape  with  a  thin  knife,  brush  top  with  beaten  white 
of  egg,  sprinkle  little  cinnamon  and  sugar  and  place  on  butter 
sheet  and  bake  eight  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  A  sheet 'is  better 
than  a  pan,  the  latter  retains  too  much  heat. — Mrs.  Richardson, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

"A  pint  is  a  pound  the  world  around." 
QUICK  PUFF  PASTE. 

One-half  pound  (one-half  pint)  cold  butter,  one-half  pound 
cold  flour.  Chop  the  butter  into  the  flour  in  small  lumps  about 
the  size  of  dice;  sprinkle  with  ice  water,  just  enough  to  hold 
together,  and  mix  very  light.  Put  on  flour  dusted  bake 
board,  and  press  into  a  square  shape;  roll  out  half  an  inch 
thick  and  fold  iq  three ;  give  one  more  turn  and  give  a  rest ; 
give  three  more  turns  (five  altogether),  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 
The  same  mixture  may  be  made  with  the  addition  of  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Mix  baking  powder  in  the  flour. — 
Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PIE  CRUST. 

Two  cupfuls  cold  flour,  four  tablespoonfuls  cold  lard,  one 
teaspoonful  salt.  Rub  lard  .into  flour  and  salt  Moisten  with 


WIIJJAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  269 

as  little  ice  water  as  will  mould  well.  Put  little  flour  on  baking 
board,  and  roll  out  for  under  crust.  For  upper  crust  roll  out 
some  of  the  above  dough,  and  spread  some  soft  butter  or  lard 
over  it;  fold  over  and  roll  again.  Make  holes  in  upper  crust 
for  ventilation.  Dampen  edge  of  under  crust  with  ice  water  or 
beaten  egg  before  putting  together. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter, 
Hackensack,  N.  J. 

PIE  CRUST. 

One  cupful  flour,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
lard,  pinch  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Sift  salt,  soda  and 
flour  in  a  mixing  bowl,  put  in  the  cold  butter  and  lard  in  the 
bottom  of  the  bowl,  cutting  it  with  a  knife  into  pieces  about  the 
size  of  dice.  Moisten  with  as  little  ice  water  as  will  mould  well. 
Roll  out  for  under  crust.  If  wanted  richer  for  upper  crust, 
spread  on  butter  and  roll  again.  Moisten  edges  with  beaten 
egg. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

NEVER  FAIL  PIE  CRUST. 

\ 

Three  cups  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  scant  half  teaspoon 
baking  powder  sifted  in  flour,  one-half  cup  lard,  one-half  cup 
butter,  one-half  cup  ice  water.  Mix  dry  ingreaients  well,  then 
add  water ;  mix  and  roll  out,  double  over  and  roll  out  several 
times  as  the  rolling  and  doubling  over  each  time  make  it 
flaky. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PIE  CRUST. 

Eight  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  pinch  of  salt. — Mrs. 
Don  Reed,  Harper  Ferry,  Kans. 

OPEN  APPLE  PIE.  < 

Line  a  deep  pie  tin  with  crust  made  of  one  cup  flour,  one- 
third  cup  cottolene,  add  just  enough  water  to  handle  dough, 
enough  for  two  crusts.  Pare  and  quarter  three  Belleflower 
apples  and  lay  rounded  side  down ;  make  a  paste  of  two-thirds 
cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  and  two  of 
hot  water,  fill  in  around  the  apples  and  bake  to  a  light  brown. — 
Mrs.  H.  S.  Aphold,  Honolulu,  H.  I. 

ENGLISH  APPLE  PIE. 

Use  Belleflower  apples.  Line  a  pie  tin  with  rich  pie  crust, 
place  apples  in  crust  quite  full,  put  on  top  crust  and  bake. 
When  done  remove  from  oven,  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  all 
around  the  edge  of  crust  and  remove  the  top  crust,  put  in 


270  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

butter  and  sugar;  mix  all  together  well,  return  the  top  crust 
and  set  away  until  you  wish  to  serve. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

SLICED  APPLE  PIE. 

Slice  four  small  Belleflower  apples,  put  just  enough  water 
over  to  stew  a  little ;  cover  tight  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 
Make  good  rich  crust  and  slip  cooked  apples  into  it  without 
breaking  up.  Then  put  over  one  cup  sugar,  sprinkle  lightly 
with  flour,  several  pieces  of  butter,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Put  on 
top  crust  and  bake. — Miss  Retta  Beasley,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

A  woman  has  thirteen  apples  and  twelve  children,  and  she  wants  to 
divide  the  apples  equally.     How  does  she  do  it? 
Answer. — She   makes  apple  sauce. 

BANANA  PIE. 

Bake  crust  and  let  cool.  Boil  one  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  until 
it  thickens.  Let  cool ;  slice  two  bananas  in  the  crust  and  pour 
ovej  the  custard;  beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  put  on  top  and 
return  to  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  John  Clark,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CHESS  PIE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, one-half  teaspoon  cloves.  Mix  well  together,  add  lump 
butter  size  of  walnut,  one  egg  or  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cup 
water.  Boil  all  together,  stirring  well.  Fill  baked  crust  and 
cover  with  meringue  (whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  two 
tablespoons  sugar),  and  brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  R.  Luce,  Win- 
slow,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Four  tablespoons  cocoa,  three  cups  milk,  three-fourths  cup 
sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Cook  together;  then  add  two 
scant  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  portion  of  the 
milk.  After  the  mixture  has  thickened  add  three  well  beaten 
eggs.  Remove  from  stove  and  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs. 
J.  E.  Jones,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Two  cupfuls  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
half  cup  grated  chocolate  or  cocoa  and  two  tablespoons  corn 
starch.  Let  milk  and  sugar  come  to  boiling  boint,  add  corn 
starch  wet  in  a  little  milk,  add  chocolate,  eggs  and  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Pour  into  baked  crust  and  cover  with  meringue  of 
whites  of  eggs. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Mayflower,  Flagstaff.  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  271 

CHOCOLATE   PIE. 

Four  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  one  pint  water,  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  corn  starch,  one  cup  of  sugar,  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  until  thick,  pour  into  a  baked 
crust.  Whip  whites  of  eggs  and  spread  on  top;  brown  in 
oven.— Mrs.  C.  A.  Neal,  Seattle,  Wash. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar;  add 
two  ounces  of  sweet  chocolate  and  a  cup  of  milk.  Line  a  pie 
plate  with  pastry,  prick  with  a  fork,  brush  with  the  white  of 
an  egg  and  bake.  When  half  done  pour  in  the  mixture  and 
finish  baking  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cool  slightly  and  then 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  vanilla  to  flavor. — Mrs.  W.  Patter- 
son, Williams,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

One  pint  milk,  a  square  of  chocolate  heated,  add  three- 
fourths  cup  of  sugar,  yolk  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla;  thicken  with  one  large  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  or 
flour.  Have  the  crust  baked,  and  fill  with  the  above  filling. 
Beat  whites  stiff,  add  a  little  sugar  and  put  on  top  and  brown. 
—Mrs.  L.  R.  Walcott,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

COCOANUT  PIE. 

Pint  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two 
tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Boil  until 
thick,  then  add  one  small  package  of  cocoanut,  pour  into  a 
baked  crust.  Whip  whites  of  eggs  and  spread  on  top,  brown 
in  oven.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Neal,  Seattle, 
Wash. 

COCOANUT  PIE. 

Beat  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  add  one- 
half  of  a  cocoanut  grated,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn 
starch  and  one  quart  of  milk. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Coles,  Middle- 
town,  Conn. 

CRANBERRY   PIE. 

Mix  one-half  cup  corn  starch  with  two  cups  sugar,  pour  on 
one  cup  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  boiling,  then  add  one-half 
cup  molasses,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful 
sugar,  and  one  quart  cranberries,  chopped  fine.  Use  this  mix- 
ture as  a  filling  for  two  pies  made  with  upper  and  lower  crusts. 


272  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

HOW  TO    MAKE   CREAM   PUFFS. 

Put  half  a  pint  of  water  and  four  level  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter into  a  saucepan,  sift  and  measure  half  a  pint  of  flour. 
When  the  water  is  boiling  and  the  butter  thoroughly  melted 
turn  in  hastily  the  flour  and  stir  rapidly  over  the  fire.  In  a  mo- 
ment you  will  have  a  perfectly  smooth,  soft  dough,  free  from 
stickiness.  Take  from  the  fire  and  stand  it  aside  until  partly 
cool.  Break  an  egg  into  a  cup,  then  turn  it  into  the  batter, 
beat  for  a  moment,  then  add  another  and  another;  beat  thor- 
oughly and  add  a  fourth,  breaking  each  into  the  cup  first,  for 
one  bad  egg  would  spoil  the  whole  mixture.  After  the  last  egg 
beat  the  batter  for  five  minutes  and  stand  it  aside  in  a  cool 
place  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  drop  by  tablespoonfuls  into 
greased  shallow  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty- 
five  or  forty  minutes.  When  the  puffs  are  done  they  will  be 
hollow  and  perfectly  light.  The  batter  must  be  dropped  far 
enough  apart  to  leave  room  for  swelling. 

To  make  the  filling  put  half  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler. 
Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  half  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 
and  six  tablespdonfuls  of  sugar.  Add  nastily  the  hot  milk ; 
stir,  pour  the  mixture  back  into  the  double  boiler  and  stir  and 
cook  until  thick  and  smooth.  Then  add  one  egg  beaten  until 
very  light,  cook  just  a  minute,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  and  turn  the  mixture  out  to  cool. — Con- 
tributed, Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAM  PIE. 

One  cup  pure,  sweet  cream,  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 
light.  Mix  together  dry  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one  teaspoon 
corn  starch  then  stir  this  mixture  into  the  cream.  Fold  the 
beaten  eggs  into  the  cream  and  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  as  you 
would  custard  pie. — Mrs.  Robt.  Finnic,  Soda  Springs,  Ariz. 

CREAM  PIE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  two  table- 
spoons flour,  four  yolks  well  beaten,  two  cupfuls  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  vanilla.  Boil  in  double  boiler  until  right  consist- 
ency. Fill  shells  of  baked  puff  paste  with  mixture.  Put 
beaten  whites  on  top  and  set  in  the  oven  a  moment  to  brown. 
Serve  almost  cold. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter,  Hackensack,  X.  J. 

CREAM  PIE. 

One  tablespoon  corn  starch,  two-thirds  pint  milk,  salt,  yolk 
of  one  egg.  Beat  the  white  with  a  little  sugar  for  the  top. 
Put  in  the  oven  a  minute.  The  crust  is  baked  separately,  then 
filled. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Cole.  Middletown.  Conn. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


CREAM  PIE. 


273 


Yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  small  lump 
butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch, 
one  teaspoon  extract. — Mrs.  Daggs,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAM  PIE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet 
milk,  two  scant  teacups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking- 
powder.  Makes  two  pies.  Split  open  pie  and  put  in  this 
filling :  One  pint  sweet  milk,  three  heaping  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  corn  starch.  Frosting  over  top : 
Whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  three  even  tablespoons  of 
sugar. — Mrs.  Ree  Stockton,  Librarian,  Somerville,  Texas. 

GERMAN    CREAM    PIE. 

One-half  cupful  hard  butter,  three-fourths  cupful  flour  with 
one-half  saltspoonful  baking  powder,  one-half  saltspoonful 
salt.  Moisten  with  one  well  beaten  egg.  Put  little  flour  on 
moulding  board,  and  roll  above  dough  very  lightly.  Oil  tin, 
cover  the  bottom  with  rolled  dough,  moisten  with  egg  around 
the  edges.  Bake  ten  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Filling : 
Put  one  cupful  milk  in  double  boiler,  six  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  yolks  of 
three  well  beaten  eggs.  Cook  until  it  thickens.  Cool  and  add 
to  above  crust.  Brown  slightly  in  the  oven.  If  a  meringue  is 
desired,  do  not  brown  until  you  have  added  the  beaten  whites 
of  three  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  on  top  of  pie. 
Then  brown  slightly. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

STRAWBERRY  CREAM  PIE. 

Cream  two  rounding  tablespoonfuls  butter,  and  beat  in  three- 
fourths  cup  sugar,  add  one  whole  egg  and  one  yolk  of  egg 
beaten  light.  Sift  together  one  and  one-fourth  cups  flour,  one- 
third  cup  corn  starch,  two  and  one-half  level  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder,  and  add  alternately  with  one-half  cup  milk  to 
butter  and  sugar.  Bake  in  two  round  layer  cake  pans.  When 
ready  to  serve,  put  cream  filling  between  layers  and  meringue 
over  top.  For  cream  filling,  mix  two  and  one-half  level  table- 
spoonfuls  corn  starch  with  three  tablespoonfuls  cold  milk, 
add  one  cup  scalded  milk.  Cook  thoroughly  over  hot  water 
for  twenty  minutes,  stirring  frequently  after  first  thickened. 
Add  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  few  grains  salt,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  butter,  one-fourth  teaspoon  fill  lemon  extract,  and  one  well 
beaten  egg.  Remove  from  fire,  beat  well,  and  cool  before 


274  THE    ARIZONA   COOK    BOOK  , 

spreading  on  cake.  When  ready  to  serve,  prepare  meringue 
for  top  by  beating  whites  of  two  eggs  very  stiff.  Add  gradu- 
ally and  beat  in  well  one-fourth  cup  powdered  sugar,  with  a 
few  drops  lemon  juice.  Put  meringue  over  top  of  pie,  and 
drop  ripe  strawberries  into  meringue  so  as  to  half  conceal  them 
in  the  fluffy  mixture.  This  pie  should  be  served  as  soon  after 
preparation  as  possible. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SOUR   CREAM   PIE. 

One  egg,  one  cup  sour  cream,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  cloves.  Mix  and  bake  in  double  crust. — Mrs.  C.  C. 
Hutchinson,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CUSTARD    PIE. 

Heat  three  .vups  of  milk,  beat  yolks  of  three  eggs  very  light 
and  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a 
little  nutmeg;  addothe  hot  milk  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Bruslrthe  crust  with  the  white  of  an  egg. — Mrs. 
C.  A.  Lindstrom.  Bellmont.  Ariz. 

FRENCH    PIE. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  maple  syrup,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cup  butter:  mix  well.  Made  without  top 
crust,  beat  slowly  whites  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar; 
place  on  top  and  brown  lightly  in  oven. — W.  A.  Fields, 
Williams.  Ariz. 

LEMON  FRUIT  PIE. 

One  cup  of  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped  fine;  the  juice  and 
pulp  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water.  Bake  with  two  crusts.  This  is  very  nice. 
—Miss  Katherine  Anderson,  Williams.  Ariz. 

FILLING   FOR   LEMON   PIE. 

Beat  thoroughly  yolks  of  three  eggs,  add  one-half  cup 
sugar,  five  tablespoons  water,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon. 
When  about  ready  to  boil  take  off.  stir  in  the  beaten  white. 
Place  in  crust  that  has  previously  been  baked  and  brown. 
This  is  delicious. — Mrs.  Metlar,  San  Francisco,  Calif. 

I.F.MOX    IMF.. 

One  coffeectipful  of  sugar,  one  coffeecupful  of  water,  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  (heaping) 
flour,  one  lemon,  the  juice  and  a  little  of  the  rind.  Mix  sugar, 
flour,  melted  butter  and  well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  lastly 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIt^LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  275 

water,  reserving  the  whiles  of  ithe  eggs  for  meringue.  This 
may  be  put  into  the  crust'  and  baked  about  forty  minutes,  or, 
the  crust  may  be  baked  first  and  the  filling  made  in  double 
boiler,  then  put  into  the  crust  with  the  meringue  on  top,  and 
set  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  brown  lightly.  The  three  whites 
of  ee^gs  beaten  thoroughly  witji  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
makes  the  meringue.  —  Mrs.  A.  J.  Dovel,  Manistee,  Mich. 

LEMON  PIE.    ' 

Filling  for  one  pie  :  One  whole  egg,  yolks  of  two,  one  scant 
cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  two- 
thirds  cup  water,  one  lemon.  —  Mrs.  B£\Lamb,  Williams,  Ariz. 

'•*U* 

LEMON  PIE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour,  yolk  of  one  egg  beaten 
thoroughly,  then  add  juice  of  one  large  lemow  or  two  small 
ones,  also  one  cup  sweet  cream  ;  boil  in  double  boiler  till  thick. 
Have  crusts  already  baked.  This  will  make  two  pies.  Beat 
whites  and  put  over  top  and  brown  1:  ;htly.  —  Mrs.  C.  M. 
Wolfe,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Dissolve  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold 
water  and  stir  in  three  cups  of  boiling  water;  cream  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar;  pour  over  the  hot 
mixture;  cool;  add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons  and  the 
beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Bake,  put  beaten  whites  on  top 
return  to  oven  to  brown.  —  Mrs.  C.  Lindstrom,  Bellmont, 


LEMON  PIE. 

Four  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  lemon,  four 
tablespoons  flour,  one  cup  water.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  add 
sugar.  Grate  in  the  rind  of  lernon  and  add  the  juice  and  fl6ur 
and  then  water.  Pour  in  a  pie  tin  lined  with  pie  crust  (do  not 
bake  crust  first)  and  bake.  When  dofie,  cover  with  the  beaten 
whites  to  which  four  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  little  lemon 
extract  has  been  added.  Place  in  the  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

—Mrs.  Chas.  Burke,  Williams,  Ariz.  * 

' 

OHIO   LEMON   PIE. 

One  cup  thick  maple  syrup,  one  lemon,  one  heaping  table- 
spoon flour;  pare  the  lemon  and  cut  in  thin  slices  into  the 
lower  crust.  Mix  flour  thoroughly  -with  maple  syrup  and 
pour  over  the  lemon  and  then  put  on  the  top  crust  and  bake  as 
other  pies'  till  filling  is  thick.  —  \Ym.  D.  Finney,  Williams, 
Ariz. 


276  THE    ARIZONA   COOK    BOOK 

^B 

FIG    MINCE    MEAT    PIE. 

\Yeigh  half  a  pound  of  flour,  sift  it,  rub  in  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  or  lard,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
and  a  pinch  of  salt,  then  gradually  add  just  enough  cold  water 
to  form  a  stiff  paste.  Roll  out  once.  Line  small  moulds  with 
the  pastry  and  fill  with  mincemeat,  adding  a  few  chopped  figs. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. — Contributed,  Hacken- 
sack,  N.  J. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE.  • 

To  one  cup  chopped  raisins  add  one  cup.  rolled  crackers,  one 
cup  molasses,  one  cup  dark  brown  sugar,  one  cup  vinegar,  one- 
half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half,  each,  of  grated  nutmeg,  all- 
spice and  cloves.  Stir  thoroughly  and  add  one  teaspoon  melted 
butter.  Bake  in  deep  pie  dish  between  two  crusts. — Miss  M.  J. 
Orth,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

ORANGE    FILLING    FOR    PIE. 

Three-fourths  cup  sugar,  three  tablespoons  flour,  two  egg 
yolks,  juice  and  grated  rind  one  orange  and  one  tablespoon  of 
lemon  juice,  one  teaspoon  butter,  one^ialf  spoon  salt.  Mix 
sugar,  flour,  yolks  of  eggs,  salt,  rind  and  juice  of  orange  and 
lemon,  pour  over  three-fourths  cup  of  boiling  water  and  stir  in 
double  boiler  until  thick,  turn  into  pie  form,  and  cover  with 
meringue. — Mrs.  Finney,  \Yilliams,  Ariz. 

SWEET   POTATO   PIE. 

One  cup  sweet  potato,  put  through  sieve;  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  cup  sugar,  one  pint  milk,  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
tablespoon  flour,  pinch  salt,  half  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Mix 
well.  Bake  in  one  crust. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Daggs,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PRUNE    PIE. 

Make  an  ordinary  pie  crust,  line  tin  and  bake.  Then  make  a 
filling  as  follows :  One  cupful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one 
teacup  of  cooked  mashed  prunes,  one  teacup  of  water,  and  but- 
ter about  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  the  filling  until  thick,  put  into 
pie  crust.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  a  froth ; 
mix  with  two  teaspoons  of  sugar,  spread  on  filled  crust  and 
brown. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Parr,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

PUMPKIN   PIE. 

Cut  pumpkin  in  pieces  about  four  inches  square.  Remove 
seeds  and  pulp,  but  not  the  rind.  Steam  two  hours  or  until 
nice  and  soft.  Put  in  the  oven  one  moment  to  dry.  Run  all 
through  a  colander.  To  one  cupful  of  pumpkin  add  one  cupful 
rich,  sweet  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  molasses, 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  277 

one  teaspoonful  ginger,  pinch  salt  and  cinnamon,  each ;  one- 
half  pinch  cloves.  Sweeten  to  taste;  butter  the  size  of  walnut. 
If  the  above  is  not  soft  enough  add  more  milk.  Bake  with 
under  crust  only.  Serve  not  quite  cold  with  Edam  cheese. — 
Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one 
tablespoonful  of  corn  starch.  Boil  all  until  cooked.  Add  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Bake  with  two  crusts. — Mrs.  Don  Reed, 
Harper,  Kans. 

RAISIN  CREAM  PIE. 

One  egg,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  sour  cream, 
one-half  cup  of  sugar,  season  with  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Bake 
in  one  crust. — Mrs.  John  Clark,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

One  pound  seeded  raisins.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  in  one  pint 
water ;  add  one  cupful  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  three 
tablespoonfuls  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  one 
grated  nutmeg,  butter  size  of  a  walnut  and  a  little  salt ;  let  boil 
fifteen  minutes  longer.  Bake  in  one  or  two  crusts  as  desired. 
(This  will  make  three  small  or  two  large  pies. — Mrs.  James  F. 

Mooney,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 

i 

MRS.  E.  T.  WILLARD'S  SQUASH  PIE  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Boil  until  tender  one-half  medium  size  squash,  then  mash 
through  colander,  add  one  pint  of  milk,  seven  small  soda  crack- 
ers rolled  fine,  salt,  sugar  and  spice  to  taste.  This  will  make 
two  pies. — Contributed,  Chicago,  111. 

RELIABLE  MINCE  PIES. 

One  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  Sultana  raisins,  one 
pound  of  candied  citron  peel,  one  pound  of  chopped  suet,  one 
pound  of  chopped  apples,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  pound 
of  seedless  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  chopped  almonds,  one 
ounce  of  mixed  spices,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  three  lemons, 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  three  large  oranges.  Chop  the  peel  fine 
and  put  it  into  a  large  jar,  then  add  all  the  other  ingredients. 
The  raisins  and  currants  should  be  carefully  cleaned.  Mix  and 
cover.  Keep  for  two  weeks  before  using.  For  a  dozen  indi- 
vidual mincemeat  pies  line  gem-pans  with  puff  pastry;  put  in 
the  center  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  the  mincemeat ;  cover 
with  rounds  of  pastry  the  size  of  the  top  of  the  pies.  Brush 
over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
—Marion  N.  Godkin,  in  Ladies'  Home  Journal. 


278 


THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


TWO  PERFECT  PIES 


H.v    CAROLINE    TOK 

The  cool  fall  days  make  the 
"good  wife"  think  of  a  little  heav- 
ier desert.  And  as  the  men  of  all 
households  adore  pie,  the  two 
recipes  given  will  be  helpful  and 
nil  a  long-felt  want 

LEMON    PIE 

Jlix  thoroughly   1  cup  of  sugar 
and  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 
Add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  beat 
until    light   and   foamy.      \\'ash    1 
large   lemon,   grate      y2      Of   rind 
and    add    to    the    sugar   and    egg. 
Add    juice    of    lemon    and    just    a 
hint  of  salt.     Put  in  double  .boiler 
'•UPS      of    cold    water 
Cook    until   thick  and   clear,    cool  i 


.and  put  into  rich  pie  shell.  Beat 
the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  stiff,  drv 
froth,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  spread  over  top  of  pie. 
Brown  lightly  in  quick  oven 

COCOAMx    IMK 
One  cup  of  freshly  grated  cocoa- 
nut    _-o  of  a  cup  of  sugar;   yolks 
13   eggs   beaten   together     until 
ght;    add   a   little   ealt   and    1 U 
cupfuls  of  milk;  turn  into  pie  pan 
lined  Wlth  rich  crust  and  bake  in 
quick  oven  20  minutes.    Beat  the 
whites  of  2  eggg  to  stiff,  dry  froth 
and   add    2    tablespoonfuls   sugar- 
spread  over  pie  and  set   in  quick 
&ven  to   brown.     Serve  warm     jf. 
fsicated  cocoantil   is  used,  soak 
I  night   in   milk. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


279 


witu 
rhubarb,      rais 

— ors  and  eg-g;    fill  pie 

pastry    or    make    a   . 
bake   about    40    minutes. 


to, 


FLAKY  PASTRY.— i  c  flour,  4  T 

lard,  ys  t  salt,  cold  water,  about  6  T. 
Add  sajt  to  flour  and  work  In  one- 
half  the  lard  with  flng-er  tips.  Keep 
coarse  and'  flaky.  Moisten  dough 
with  Ice  water,  turn  on  slightly 
floured  board,  turn  In  flour,  pat  and 
roll  out.  Fold  In  balance  of  lard 
(which  should  be  rather  soft)  by 
placing  other  half  of  crust  over  it; 
press  edges  together  firmly  to  In- 
case as  much  air  as  possible,  press 
with  a  rolling  pin  and.  roll  it  out. 
Fold  again  and  roll.  Do  this  three 
times.  Use  at  once,  or  place  in  cov- 
-ered  dish  In  cool  place.  Th's  quantity 
vlll  make  one  pie  with  two  crusts, 
>r  one  pie  with  the  crust  built  up. 


SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. 
Crenmed    Corn    Beef.  Potatoes. 


te*. 
ST/a',, 

tine    ; 

Put  t 
and    br— 
gelatine 
utes. 

until  cc_ 
beaten, 
and  ser-. 
Ice  to  o 


H" 

TO ' 
cheese, 
per, 

i 

AT- 


280 


THE    ARIZONA,  COOK    BOOK 


WILUAMS  PUBLIC  -LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION 


281 


PICKLES 


"Peter  Piper  picked  a  peck  of  pickled  peppers." 
RIPE    CUCUMBER    PICKLES. 

One-half  dozen  large  ripe  cucumbers,  twelve  onions,  one  red 
and  two  green  peppers.  Chop  coarse  and  let  stand  one  hour 
in  strong  brine.  Drain  dry,  and  scald  in  vinegar  and  water. 
Drain  again  and  cook  in  syrup  until  clear;  add  one  coffeecup 
of  sugar  and  one  of  vinegar. — Mrs.  H.  M.  Stark,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

RIPE    CUCUMBER    PICKLES. 

Twelve  ripe  cucumbers,  pare,  take  out  the  seeds,  and  cut  in 
pieces  the  desired  size.  Place  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  boiling 
water  in  which  a  good  handful  of  salt  has  been  put,  and  let 
remain  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  and  put  in  vinegar 
for  twenty-four  hours.  Cook  until  clear  in  the  following: 
One  quart  of  cider  vinegar,  two  ounces  cinnamon  buds,  one- 
half  ounce  whole  cloves. — Mrs.  Sloan,  Manistee,  Mich. 

STUFFED    CUCUMBERS. 

Take  large  cucumbers  (sour,  salt  or  dill),  slit  down  one  side 
and  remove  the  seeds,  then  soak  in  clear  water  until  fresh, 
changing  water  if  necessary.  Drain  and  wipe  carefully.  Fill 
with  seeded  raisins,  adding  to  each  cucumber  three  cloves,  half 
a  thin  slice  of  lemon  (rind  and  frmt),  t\vo  or  three  thin  slices 
citron,  then  tie  up  and  squeeze  out  all  remaining  water.  Make 
a  rich  sweet  pickle  syrup  as  for  any  sweet  pickle  only 
omitting  spices.  Lay  cucumbers  in  syrup  enough  to  cover 
them  and  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  turning  over  once.  Set 
away  in  a  covered  vessel  and  pickles  will  be  ready  for  imme- 
diate use,  though  improved  by  standing  some  days. — Mrs. 
Lacy,  Seattle,  Wash. 

FINE  CRISP  PICKLES. 

One  gallon  vinegar,  one  cup  salt,  one-half  cup  ground  mus- 
tard. Mix  all  together  and  throw  in  your  cucumbers.  Keep 
them  under  the  vinegar  and  they  will  be  fresh  as  long  as  kept. 
— Mrs.  McLaity,  Manistee,  Mich. 

SLICED  MIXED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Five  dozen  cucumbers  (largest  pickling  size),  one-fourth 
peck  white  onions  sliced  thin,  five  large  red  peppers  cut  in 


WILUAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  283 

strips,  one-half  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  one-half  pound 
of  ground  mustard,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-eighth 
pound  celery  seed,  six  sticks  of  horseradish  (ground).  Put 
onions  and  cucumbers  and  a  layer  of  salt  in  a  bag  over  night. 
Squeeze  as  dry  as  possible.  Measure  the  brine  drained  off  and 
add  same  amount  in  vinegar;  add  the  ground  mustard.  Mix 
all  ingredients  well  and  pour  o\*er  the  vinegar.  Seal  while  hot. 
—Mrs.  Louis  Wuicket,  Chicago,  111. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

Five  pounds  currants,  three  pounds  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
cloves,  two  tablespoons  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  allspice,  one 
pint  vinegar.  Boil  one-half  hour. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Cole,  Mid- 
dletown,  Conn. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  pint  vinegar  and  four  pounds  sugar; 
add  two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  two  teaspoons  allspice  ,one  tea- 
spoon cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  mace,  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 
When  boiling  add  four  pounds  currants  and  boil  twenty  min- 
utes. It  will  keep  in  open  glasses  same  as  jelly. — Mrs.  Lacy, 
Seattle,  Wash. 

SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Twelve  pounds  fruit,  either  green  or  ripe,  one  pint  vinegar, 
eight  pounds  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  cloves,  one  tablespoon 
cinnamon  (ground).  Just  cover  berries  with  water  and  let 
them  cook  a  long  while  before  adding  other  ingredients,  then 
cook  down  until  like  jelly.  Seal  in  jelly  glasses.  Especially 
nice  to  serve  with  hash. — Mrs.  Henry  Marsh,  Manistee,  Mich. 

FRENCH   PICKLES. 

Four  quarts  green  tomatoes,  one  quart  small  onions,  one 
small  cabbage,  one  cauliflower,  six  green  peppers.  Cut  all  in 
small  pieces  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours  in  light  brine. 
Then  drain  in  a  colander  very  dry. 

Paste  for  Pickles. 

Six  teaspoons  of  ground  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of 
Tunic  powder  to  color,  two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  flour, 
water  enough  to  mix  into  a  paste.  Bring  to  a  boiling  heat  two 
quarts  of  best  vinegar,  one  pint  of  water.  Cook  the  paste  as 
thick  as  custard,  add  to  pickle  and  seal  in  fruit  jars. — Mrs. 
T.  A.  Barney,  New  Haven,  Conn. 


'284  THE  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 

MIXED  FRUIT  PICKLES. 

Two  dozen  large  cucumber  sour  pickles,  one  dozen  small 
cucumber  sweet  pickles.  Soak  in*  clear  water  for  two  days, 
changing  water  several  times.  Peel  the  large  cucumbers  and 
cut  in  long  strips,  thick  rounds  and  other  fancy  shapes,  place 
in  a  jar  with  the  small  cucumbers,  one  can  each  of 
canned  peaches,  sliced  pineapple,  and  white  cherries;  drain 
juice  from  pineapple  and  cherries,  but  retain  the  peach  juice, 
put  these  in  another  jar.  In  another  jar  put  one  pound  of  figs 
washed  well,  and  two  pounds  of  raisins  on  the  stem  washed  in 
hot  water.  Make  a  syrup  of  four  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar 
and  one-half  gallon  of  cider  vinegar,  to  which  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  ground  mustard,  five  cents  worth  each  of  mace  and 
cloves  (whole),  stick  cinnamon  and  mustard  seed;  boil  to  a 
thick  syrup,  divide  into  three  parts  and  pour  over  the  jar  of 
cucumbers,  the  jar  of  canned  fruit  and  the  jar  of  figs  and 
raisins,  close  tight.  Will  be  ready  in  a  week  or  ten  days.  The 
canned  fruit  will  take  the  vinegar  sooner  and  may  be  prepared 
several  days  after  the  cucumbers. — Mrs,  K.  W.  Williams,  Cyn- 
thiana,  Ky. 

SWEET   MIXED   PICKLES. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  four 
heads  of  cabbage,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  dozen  green 
bell  peppers,  one  dozen  red  bell  peppers,  five  quarts  of  good 
cider  vinegar,  celery  and  mustard  seed  to  taste.  Chop  every- 
thing up  fine  and  mix  well.  Pack  in  jar  and  mix  in  one  pint 
of  salt,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  press  out  all 
moisture.  Cover  with  the  vinegar  and  let  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Seal  in  glass  jars. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Copeland.  Point  Richmond, 
Calif. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES. 

Two  quarts  green  tomatoes,  two  quarts  green  cucumbers, 
two  quarts  small  onions,  two  heads  cabbage,  two  heads  cauli- 
flower, one  stalk  celery,  one-half  dozen  green  or  bell  peppers. 
Slice  each,  and  boil  all  together  in  water  and  vinegar  enough 
to  cover,  putting  in  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  alum.  When 
cooked  done,  put  them  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  cool.  Then 
mix  together,  one-fourth  pound  ground  mustard,  one-half 
ounce  turmeric,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  flour.  Smooth  all 
gradually  into  a  paste,  using  a  little  of  the  cooling  vinegar: 
stir  all  together;  heat  to  a  boiling  point.  Pack  in  glass  jars. 
Or,  this  will  keep  well  in  an  earthen  jar,  having  a  tight  cover. 
— Mrs.  J.  Selrnan,  Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  285 

MUSTARD  PICKIiES. 

Take  medium  sized  cucumbers,  wash  thoroughly,  wiping 
dry.  To  one  gallon  cider  vinegar  add  two  cups  sugar  ,one  cup 
salt,  three-fourths  cup  dry  mustard.  Put  pickles  into  a  crock 
and  pour  the  mixture  over  cucumbers,  cold.  Cover  the  crock, 
putting  weight  on  top.  One  gallon  of  vinegar  will  cover  four 
gallons  of  pickles. — Mrs.  Langton,  Monroe,  Mich. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES. 

One  quart  large  cucumbers  cut  fine,  one  quart  small  cucum- 
bers, two  quarts  small  onions,  one  quart  green  tomatoes,  eight 
heads  cauliflower,  nine  green  peppers,  sliced;  one  gallon  vine- 
gar, seventeen  tablespoons  mustard,  one  cup  flour,  three  cups 
brown  sugar,  one  good  handful  of  salt,  one-half  pint  olive  oil, 
one-half  ounce  tumeric  powder. — Mrs.  H.  M.  Stark,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

PICKLED    RIPE    OLIVES. 

Make  French  dressing.  Use  equal  portions  of  vinegar  and 
olive  oil.  Add  small  onion  sliced,  and  small  portion  of  clove 
of  garlic.  Cover  ripe  olives  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours. 
Serve  olives  with  the  dressing — Mrs.  C.  C.  Hutchinson,  Flag- 
staff, Ariz. 

PICKLED    WATERMELON    RIND. 

Boil  till  tender,  throw  away  the  water,  three  quarts  fruit, 
one  quart  vinegar,  three  pounds  sugar.  Boil  vinegar  and  sugar 
with  whole  spices  to  taste.  Heat  three  successive  days  and 
pour  over  fruit. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

TOMATO  RELISH. 

One  peck  ripe  tomatoes ;  peel,  chop  fine  and  drain  over  night, 
add  two  cups  chopped  celery,  six  onions,  three  green  peppers, 
one  quart  good  vinegar,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one-half 
cup  salt,  one  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  cinnamon. 
Don't  cook.  Keeps  always  and  is  very  good. — Mrs.  Henskey, 
Mulliken,  Mich. 

SWEET  TOMATO   PICKLES. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  onions,  slice,  sprinkle 
salt  through  layers,  let  stand  over  night,  then  drain;  rinse 
with  cold  water.  Cook  in  clear  vinegar  until  tender.  Drain 
and  put  in  stone  jars  in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  a 
little  whole  allspice,  cloves,  and  black  peppers,  boil  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  two  pounds  brown  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  ground 
mustard  and  pour  over  pickles. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Aver,  Detroit, 
Mich. 


286  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

SLICED   GREEN  TOMATO   PICKLES. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  six  large  onions ;  slice  thin,  sprin- 
kle through  them  one  cup  salt;  let  stand  over  night,  drain  off 
next  morning.  Take  one  quart  vinegar  and  two  of  water; 
boil  tomatoes  and  onions  five  minutes.  Drain  through  colan- 
der. Put  together  four  quarts  vinegar,  two  pounds  brown 
sugar,  one-half  pound  ground  mustard,  two  tablespoons  cloves, 
two  of  cinnamon,  six  green  peppers  chopped.  Pour  over  the 
tomatoes  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. — Contributed,  Trout  Creek, 
Mich. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Three  pounds  fruit,  one  quart  vinegar ;  mix.  Let  stand 
three  days,  strain  through  flannel  bag  without  pressing.  To 
one  pint  juice  add  one  pound  sugar.  Do  not  stir,  but  when 
boiling  stir  sugar  in  quickly  till  dissolved.  Let  the  whole  boil 
three  minutes.  Better  when  cool. — Mrs.  G.  A.  Cole,  Middle- 
town,  Conn. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  287 


POULTRY 


"To  swallow  gudgeons  ere  they're  catched 
And  count  your  chickens  ere  they're  hatched." 

— Butler. 

CREAM  CHICKEN. 

One  chicken  of  four  pounds,  four  sweetbreads,  and  one  can 
mushrooms ;  boil  chicken  and  sweetbreads  separately,  put 
chicken  and  mushrooms  and  sweetbreads  cut  up  in  small  pieces 
in  a  dish ;  add  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  five  tablespoons  of 
flour,  scald  one  quart  of  cream  and  put  in  the  mixture ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  dots  of 'butter 
on  top.  Bake  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

CHICKEN  CREAMED. 

Two  chickens  (good  size),  two  sweetbreads,  two  cans  mush- 
rooms, one  quart  cream  or  half  milk,  one  scant  teacup  flour, 
one-half  cup  butter.  Put  cream  on  stove.  When  hot  stir  in 
flour  moistened  with  a  little  milk  and  butter.  Salt,  pepper  and 
parsley  to  taste.  Let  cool  before  using.  Cook  chickens  and 
s\veetbreads  and  pick  up  as  for  salad.  Put  a  few  grated  bread 
crumbs  in  bottom  of  baking  dish  then  add  layer  of  each  in- 
gredient, alternating  the  chicken,  sweetbreads,  mushrooms  and 
dressing  until  all  have  been  used.  Finish  with  dressing  and 
sprinkle  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  twenty  minutes  or  until  a 
golden  brown. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Bryden,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

CHICKEN  CREAMED. 

Cut  into  small  dice  the  white  meat  of  cooked  chicken.  Melt 
two  tablespoons  of  butter,  stir  in  two  heaping  tablespoons  of 
well  sifted  flour;  when  creamy  and  smooth  add  a  little  at  a 
time  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  stirring  constantly  to  keep  from  lump- 
ing, let  it  boil  up  once,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion, 
little  salt,  and  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  stir  briskly;  cut  two 
fresh  mushrooms  fine,  fry  lightly  in  butter,  one  sweet  green 
pepper  shredded,  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  capers  chopped 
fine  and  a  suggestion  of  grated  nutmeg.  Add  chicken  and 
serve. — Mrs.  Gardner.  Manistee,  Mich. 

CREAMED   CHICKEN  FILLING  FOR  PATTIES, 
i 

Cut  the  meat  from  a  cold  roast  or  boiled  fowl  into  bits,  but 
do  not  chop.-  The  white  meat  is  best  for  this,  but  the  dark  may 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  289 

be  used  if  desired.  There  should  be  a  cupful  of  the  chicken  dice. 
Season  with  salt,  white  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Cook 
together  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoonful,  each  of  butter  and 
flour,  and,  when  these  are  blended,  pour  upon  them  a  cupful 
of  rich  milk — half  cream,  if  you  have  it — and  stir  to  a  smooth 
white  sauce.  Put  the  saucepan  in  an  outer  pan  of  boiling  water 
and  stir  into  it  the  chicken.  If  more  seasoning  is  needed,  add 
it,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley.  When  heated  through, 
fill  pastry  shells  with  the  mixture,  set  in  the  oven  until  very  hot, 
and  serve. 

CREAMED    CHICKEN    AND    MUSHROOMS. 

Parboil  a  good  sized  chicken.  Boil  liquor  down  until  it 
makes  three-fourths  of  a  pint.  Boil  fresh  mushrooms  in 
water  with  salt,  about  twenty  minutes.  Then  cut  up  the 
chicken  and  mushrooms  and  mix..  Take  one-half  pint  of 
cream,  let  come  to  a  boil,  add  the  liquor  and  a  big  tablespoon 
of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  thicken  with  flour. 
Then  add  the  chicken  and  mushrooms  and  cook  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Will  serve  six  or  eight  people. — Mrs.  Charles  M. 
Smith,  Thomasville,  Ga. 

FRIED   CHICKEN. 

Select  half-grown  chicken,  scald,  clean,  dress  and  disjoint. 
Roll  pieces  in  flour  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in 
covered  pan  in  hot  butter,  over  medium  hot  fire.  Serve  hot. 

Gravy  for  Above. 

Pour  about  a  quart  of  milk  into  the  hot  frying  pan  from 
which  the  chicken  has  been  taken,  allowing  it  to  boil  up  good. 
Season  to  taste,  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Pour  gravy 
over  the  chicken,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Hull  (age 
95  years),  Williams,  Ariz. 

FRIED   CHICKEN, 
i 

Wash  and  cut  up  young  chicken,  wipe  dry,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  or  dip  each  piece  in  egg 
and  cracker  crumbs.  Have  in  frying  pan  one  ounce  each  of 
butter  and  sweet  lard  made  boiling  hot.  Lay  in  chicken  and 
fry  brown  on  both  sides ;  take  up  and  cover  until  served.  Stir 
into  the  gravy  left,  one  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  cup  of  cream 
or  milk;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  parsley,  if  desired,  and  let 
boil  up.  Then  gravy  is  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  James  Kennedy, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


290  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

FRIED   CHICKEN. 

A  pair  of  spring  chickens  about  two  pounds  each  in  weight. 
Draw,  singe  and  be  most  careful  to  get  all  pin  feathers  off.  Cut 
off  the  wings,  neck,  legs.  Take  the  ends  of  the  wings,  the 
necks  and  giblets,  all  but  the  livers.  Cover  with  cold  water 
and  a  pinch  of  .salt.  Boil  until  very  tender  using  the  liquid  for 
the  gravy  and  the  giblets,  to  chop  in  it.  Serve  the  back  and  • 
breast,  leaving  the  breast  whole  and  the  back  as  well,  using 
the  upper  neck  piece  for  stewing.  Take  a  clean  linen  cloth  and 
wring  it  frequently  out  of  cold,  clear  water  carefully  wiping 
each  piece  before  flouring.  After  each  piece  is  wiped  off  flour 
very  thickly  with  pastry  flour  into  which  salt  and  pepper  has 
been  freely  shaken.  Have  two  iron  spiders  on  the  stove  with  a 
large  piece  of  butter  in  each,  allowing  it  to  get  very  hot. 
When  you  feel  sure  that  the  butter  is  hot  lay  the  two  breasts 
in  right  side  dowrn,  allowing  both  halves  to  brown  nicely,  the 
backs,  second  joints,  legs  and  wings  after  the  skin  side  is  well 
browned.  Turn  each  piece  over  onto  the  bone  side  and  cover 
the  spiders  tightly,  pouring  a  very  little  of  the  gravy  from  the 
giblets  in  the  bottom  to  create  a  steam.  Cook  very  slowly  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  lift  out  on  a  hot  platter,  garnish 
with  parsley. 

Gravy. 

Into  the  hot  butter  sift  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  stir  in  the 
liquid  from  the  giblets  and  allow  to  thicken  smoothly,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Chop  the  giblets  fine,  add,  and  allow  all  to  come  to 
a  boil.  Serve  in  gravy  boat.  Do  not  pour  on  the  chicken. — 
Wm.  B.  Mershon,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

KENTUCKY  FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Genuine  Kentucky  fried  chicken  must  be  sampled  to  be  fully 
appreciated.  Cut  up  your  chicken  and  soak  it  for  about  an 
hour  in  salted  water.  Season  some  flour  with  sage  or  prepared 
poultry  dressing,  pepper  and  salt  and  roll  the  pieces  of  chicken 
in  it.  Put  into  a  frying-pan  just  enough  lard  to  a  little  more 
than  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  This  will  insure  that  deli- 
cate brown  which  always  distinguishes  genuine  Kentucky  fried 
chicken.  Put  the  pan  in  the  oven,  instead  of  on  the  top  of 
the  stove,  as  the  chicken  will  cook  more  evenly  and  thoroughly 
and  will  not  burn  before  done,  as  otherwise  it  is  apt  to  do. 
Lard  is  preferable  to  either  butter  or  pork  because  it  does  not 
burn  so  quickly.  If  the  oven  is  not  too  hot,  and  the  frying  has 
not  been  too  rapid,  by  the  time  the  chicken  is  nicely  browned 
you  can  depend  upon  its  being  thoroughly  cooked. — Miss  Helen 
M.  Richardson,  Massachusetts. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  291 

CHICKEN    MARYLAND. 

If  possible,  select  small  fowl.  Split  down  the  back,  having 
iirst  been  prepared  carefully  in  the  usual  way.  Should  the  fowl 
be  large,  disjoint  it.  Season  well,  run  with  flour  and  then  in  a 
mixture  composed  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  spoonful  of  cream. 
Then  dust  with  sifted  crumbs.  Heat  clarified  butter — plain 
may  be  used — and  when  hot,  fry  the  chicken  in  this  slowly, 
turning  over  many  times  until  it  is  an  even  dark  yellow.  It 
should  have  a  nice,  rich  color  and  if  fried  slowly  and  frequently 
turned,  this  is  very  easy  to  obtain.  Fry  about  fifteen  minutes, 
then  put  in  covered  dish  of  porcelain  or  something  that  will 
stand  the  heat  and  put  into  slow  oven  for  ten  minutes.  With 
the  butter  left  in  the  pan,  make  a  cream  sauce  by  mixing  two 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  then  adding  a  pint  of  cream  and  milk 
mixed,  salt  and  pepper.  Do  not  make  it  too  thick.  Chicken 
Maryland  is  always  served  with  corn  fritters  and  strips  of 
broiled  bacon,  this  placed  on  the  platter  with  the  fowl. 

Corn  Fritters  for  Above. 

It  is  preferable  to  use  fresh  corn,  although  the  canned  may 
be  used.  Chop  until  it  looks  grated,  or  grate  the  ears  on  a 
greater.  Make  a  batter,  using  the  proportions  of  a  cup  of  flour 
to  a  cup  and  a  half  of  milk,  one  beaten  egg  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  This  makes  a  thin  fritter.  If  a  thick,  puffy  one  is  de- 
sired, add  more  flour  and  use  baking  powder,  a  teaspoonful  to 
two  cups  of  flour. — Mrs.  E.  B.  Perrin,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHICKEN   PATTIES. 

Make  a  nice  rich  puff  paste.  Cut  a  round  from  it  with  a 
medium  large  cookie  cutter,  and  with  a  smaller  size  cutter,  cut 
out  the  middle?  of  the  round,  thus  leaving  a  ring.  Bake  to  a 
light  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Then  brush  them  over  with 
beaten  egg,  and  put  in  the  oven  one  minute  to  glaze.  Fill  these 
crusts  with  minced  boiled  chicken  well  seasoned  and  beaten 
well  into  a  white  sauce  made  of  the  water  in  which  the  chicken 
was  boiled.  Serve  hot. — Contributed,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Select  a  plump  fowl  weighing  four  or  five  pounds,  dress, 
singe  and  put  on  in  boiling  water  enough  to  cover,  let  boil 
gently  until  it  begins  to  grow  tender.  Save  the  broth  with 
the  giblets.  Now  cut  the  chicken  into  small  pieces ;  slice  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  pork  into  thin  slices  and  fry  it  with 
the  chicken  until  all  is  brown.  Take  up  and  stir  into  the  pan 
in  which  they  were  cooked  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir  over 
the  fire  till  brown  and  thick.  Then  add  a  pint  of  chicken 


292  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

broth,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  quarter  teaspoonful  of 
pepper;  pour  gravy  over  chicken.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  rich 
puff  paste  and  put  in  alternate  layers  of  chicken,  pork  and 
sliced  raw  potatoes;  pour  in  as  much  gravy  as  the  dish  will 
hold.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  cover  with  a 
top  crust.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.— Mrs.  F.  H. 
Waite,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

CHICKEX  PIE. 

Dress,  clean  and  cut  up  two  fowl  or  chickens.  Put  a  kettle 
on  range  with  three  pints  of  water ;  as  soon  as  water  reaches 
the  boiling-point,  add  chicken,  a  few  pieces  at  a  time,  otherwise 
the  boiling  will  be  stopped,  and  the  water  thus  cooled  will  draw 
out  so  much  of  the  flavor  that  the  chicken  will  become  tasteless. 
When  all  is  added,  cover  and  cook  slowly  until  meat  is  tender, 
adding  one-half  tablespoonful  of  salt  during  the  last  half-hour 
of  the  cooking.  Remove  chicken  and  discard  skin  and  some  of 
the  larger  bones.  Strain  stock,  skim  off  fat  and  then  cook  until 
reduced  to  four  cupfuls.  Thicken  with  one-fourth  of  a  cupful 
of  butter  mixed  with  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  flour.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  chicken  in  serving-dish,  strain 
over  gravy,  let  stand  over  night  and  reheat  for  serving.  Make 
a  decorated  cover  of  a  rich  pie  crust.  It  is  much  better  to  bake 
the  paste  separately  and  reheat  chicken  before  covering  the  pie, 
— Contributed,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CHICKEN    PIE. 

Cut  up  and  boil  till  tender  one  large  or  two  small  one  year 
old  chickens  with  plenty  of  broth  to  cover  it  when  done.  Make 
a  rich  baking-powder  biscuit  dough,  roll  thin,  line  the  sides  of 
a  deep  four  quart  basin  with  the  dough.  Lay  in  the  pieces  of 
chicken,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lumps  of  butter  and 
drop  in  little  pieces  of  the  dough.  Thicken  the  broth  with  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  turn  in  enough  of  this  gravy  to  cover 
the  chicken.  Roll  a  piece  of  dough  one-half  inch  thick  and 
cover  the  pie,  being  careful  to  cut  little  holes  in  the  cover  for 
steam  to  escape.  Be  careful  to  wet  the  edge  so  the  cover  will 
stick,  and  bake  one-half  hour. — Mrs.  H.  F.  Adams,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

PRESSED  CHICKEX. 

Take  two  chickens  and  boil  until  tender  enough  to  pick  off, 
boil  with  one  large  onion  and  six  little  chiltipin  peppers  and 
boil  also  one  sweetbread.  After  picked  off  put  in  a  deep  dish 
a  layer  of  hard  boiled  eggs  first,  then  a  layer  of  chicken,  then 
a  layer  of  sweetbreads,  then  eggs,  alternating.  Leave  the  soup 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  293 

in  the  kettle  and  boil  with  one  teaspoonful  of  gelatin  and 
chicken  bones  for  half  an  hour,  then  pour  over  mould  and  set 
aside  for  the  night.  The  soup  that  is  left  mould  in  a  cup  and 
slice  over  the  top  of  chicken.  Serve  this  with  mayonnaise 
sauce  and  browned  crackers.  Remove  from  the  deep  dish  after 
it  is  moulded. 

Mayonnaise   Sauce   for   Pressed   Chicken. 

To  make  a  mayonnaise  perfectly  and  at  the  same  time  cer- 
tain that  it  does  not  curdle,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice 
right  at  the  beginning.  To  make  a  small  quantity,  use  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  some  white 
pepper  and  the  juice  of  half  a  large  lemon  or  that  of  a  whole 
lemon.  Strain  this  juice.  Mix  the  yolk  and  the  seasoning, 
adding  about  three  drops  of  lemon  or  so  and  a  few.  drops  of 
oil,  whisking  briskly  with  a  fork.  Add  more  oil  slowly,  whisk- 
ing in  a  cupful  of  oil  and  every  now  and  then  add  a  little  of  the 
lemon.  It  should  be  thick,  firm  and  still  creamy.  Acid  a  bit  of 
rich  cream  when  the  mayonnaise  is  made.  You  can  add  to  this 
which  improves  it,  chopped  green  peppers,  chopped  pimentos, 
chopped  pickled  English  walnuts,  and  a  pinch  of  English  mus- 
tard.—Mrs.  E.  B.  Perrin,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  two  chickens  until  dropping  to  pieces,  remove  skin  and 
bones,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  the  liquor  boiled  down 
to  a  teacup  or  less.  Put  into  a  deep  tin  or  mold,  pressing  well 
down.  Let  get  perfectly  cold  and  slice.  Packing  into  baking 
powder  cans  makes  pretty  round  slices.  If  a  knuckle  of  veal 
is  boiled  with  the  chicken  it  will  be  solid  and  slice  well. — Mrs. 
J.  L.  Richmond,  Chicago,  Ills. 

CHICKEN  RAMEKINS. 

Chop  the  white  meat  of  a  raw  fowl  fine,  add  a  bit  of  soda 
size  of  a  pea  to  a  gill  of  cream.  Put  this  over  the  fire  and  as 
it  heats  add  the  chicken  meat ;  cook  for  a  minute,  remove  and 
cool,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper,  then  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  turn 
into  buttered  ramekin  dishes  and  brown.  Serve  immediately. 
— Mrs.  William  Wente,  Manistee,  Mich. 

ROAST   SPRING   CHICKEN. 

Take  chicken  four  months  old,  clean  nicely,  and  dry.  Cut  in 
small  pieces,  roll  in  flour,  lay  in  dripping  pan,  sprinkle  plenty 
of  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  butter,  cover  with  sweet  milk  and 


294  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

bake  a  nice  brown,  turn  and  brown  the  other  side.  Bake 
slowly  at  first  till  milk  is  mostly  absorbed.  For  gravy,  sprinkle 
in  a  little  flour  and  add  more  milk  or  water,  if  preferred. — 
Mrs.  Otto  Lebsch,  Williams,  Ariz. 

Pat  O'Brien  gave  a  dinner,  to  which  he  invited  three  or  four  of  his 
neighbors.  Pat  had  allowed  his  wife  to  cook  only  one  chicken.  When 
dinner  was  served,  Pat  took  possession  of  the  carving  knife,  and,  in  a 
hospitable  tone,  said  to  Mrs.  Dugan:  "What  part  of  the  fowl  will  you 
have?" 

"A  leg,  if  you  please,"  was  the  answer. 

"An*  what  part  .will  yez  have?  Would  yez  loike  some  of  the  white?" 
Pat  inquired  of  Mrs.  O'Hooligan. 

"An"  a  leg  will  do  me,"  she  answered. 

As  each  one  answered  the  part  of  the  fowl  she  desired  was  given  her. 

"What  part  will  yez  have,  Moike  Walsh?"  Pat  blindly  inquired  of  his 
neighbor. 

"Oi  belave  Oi  will  take  a  leg,  too,"  said  Mike,  in  his  most  modest 
way,  wishing  to  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  the  rest  of  the  company. 

"Eegorra,"  said  Pat  to  Mickey,  "what  does  yez  think  Oi'm  carvin — 
a  spider?" 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Take  a  good  sized  spring  chicken,  clean  thoroughly,  take  a 
covered  roasting  pan,  now  split  chicken  down  the  back,  place 
breast  up  in  pan,  skin  one  medium  sized  onion,  slice  and  place 
under  chicken,  season  chicken  all  over  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Put  a  pint  of  water  in  pan,  cover,  place  in  moderately  heated 
oven,  bake  for  an  hour  or  hour  and  a  quarte  ,  renewing  water 
when  necessary  and  baking  to  a  golden  brown. — Miss  Kath- 
erine  Anderson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ROAST  DUCK  WITH  ORANGE  JUICE. 

The  ducks  being  picked,  singed  and  drawn,  mince  the  livers 
with  a  little  scraped  bacon,  some  butter,  green  onions,  mush- 
rooms, sweet  herbs  and  parsley  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Stuff  the  ducks  with  this  mixture,  cover  with  slices 
of  bacon,  wrap  in  paper  and  roast  them.  Put  into  a  stewpan 
a  little  gravy,  the  juice  of  an  orange  and  a  few  shallots,  minced. 
Add  a  dash  of  pepper  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  \Yhen 
the  ducks  are  roasted,  place  them  on  a  hot  platter,  remove  the 
bacon,  pour  over  them  the  sauce  and  serve  hot,  garnish  with 
curly  parsley. — Juliet  Hite  Gallaher,  Virginia. 

ROAST   DUCK. 

Clean,  stuff  and  truss  a  pair  of  ducks,  place  on  a  rack  in  a 
dripping-pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover  breast 
of  each  bird  with  two  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork.  If  wild  ducks 
are  used,  bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven, 
basting  every  five  minutes,  with  fat  in  pan.  If  domestic  ducks 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  295 

are  preferred,  reduce  the  heat  and  bake  one  and  one-fourth 
hours.    Garnish  with  water  cress  and  serve  with  orange  sauce. 

Stuffing  for  Wild  I>uck. 

This  stuffing  is  not  eaten :  simply  added  to  impart  flavor, 
and  consists  of  three  small  onions  put  into  body  of  each  bird. 
Or  apples  pared,  cored  and  cut  in  quarters,  and  removed  before 
serving. 

Stuffing  for  Domestic  Doick. 

Cover  stale  bread  broken  in  pieces  with  boiling  water  and 
let  stand  until  bread  has  absorbed  the  water  ;then  squeeze 
through  chees-cloth  to  press  out  the  water.  Season  bread 
with  salt,  pepper,  melted  butter  and  finely  chopped  onions. 

MEXICAN  TAMALES. 

Cook  one  or  two  chickens,  until  tender.  Remove  all  meat 
from  bones,  cut  in  small  pieces,  add  the  liquor  in  which  the 
chicken  has  been  cooked ;  this  is  seasoned  well ;  add  red  pepper 
to  suit  taste,  then  thicken  with  corn  meal.  Roll  out  into  rolls 
the  size  of  link  sausage,  wrap  in  the  inner  husks  of  green  corn 
tie  the  husks  with  string  at  each  end  to  secure  them.  Boil  for 
three  hours. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SQUABS. 

Take  two  or  four  or  six  squabs ;  halve  your  birds ;  place  in  a 
deep  saucepan,  about  two  slices  of  bacon  cut  in  small  dice 
browning  in  butter;  brown  your  birds,  turning  often.  When 
all  is  a  golden  color  add  one  large  glass  of  water,  a  small 
onion  or  two,  one  clove,  garlic,  a  kitchen  bouquet,  thyme, 
parsley,  celery.  Let  all  simmer  gently  for  one  and  one-half 
hours,  then  add  a  cup  or  two  or  tender  green  peas;  cook  half 
or  three-quarters  of  an  hour  more,  add  a  little  water  if  neces- 
sary, salt  and  pepper.  Place  squabs  on  toasted  bread  and 
garnish  with  the  peas,  removing  all  garden  bouquet,  thicken 
with  spoonful  of  flour  dissolved  in  water  before  using. — Miss 
Florence  Parker,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

FRICASSE  OF  TURKEY. 

Cut  some  slices  from  the  remnants  of  roast  turkey  and  re- 
serve them.  Break  the  bones  into  small  pieces ;  place  these  with 
skin  and  trimmings  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  strip  of  lemon-peel, 
an  onion,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  some  peppercorns  and  salt.  Cover 
with  water  and  allow  to  simmer  for  two  hours.  Then  strain 
and  remove  all  fat  from  surface  and  allow  to  cool.  Next, 
place  the  meat  in  the  above  and  let  it  warm  through  very 


296 

slowly.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  brown  stock ;  add  any  flavor- 
ing that  may  be  desired,  and  stir  all  well  together.  Serve  on 
a  hot  dish,  garnished  with  toast. — Lawrence  Irwell,  New  York. 

MUSHROOM   AND   OYSTER   STUFFING   FOR   TURKEY. 

Grate  a  small  loaf  of  stale  bread  into  a  bowl,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  celery  seed  and  a  little  ground  mace.  Add'  a 
pint  of  small  oysters  that  have  been  well  drained  and  half  a 
pint  of  button  mushrooms.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  half  a  pint  of 
oyster  liquor,  stirring  in  as  it  is  about  to  boil,  a  teaspoonful 
of  cornstarch,  two  of  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
first  moistening  the  cornstarch  in  cold  water.  Be  sure  that  it 
boils;  when  cold,  gradually  blend  with  the  other  ingredients 
and  use. — Contributed. 

ROAST  SPRING  TURKEY,  OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Singe,  draw,  wash  and  truss  (not  stuff)  young  turkey. 
Roast  about  an  hour,  basting  well  with  liquor  in  pan,  made 
of  water,  butter,  little  onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with 
good  brown  gravy  or  oyster  sauce. — Mrs.  Win.  F.  Dermont. 
Williams,  Ariz. 

Casey — "How  do  you  tell  the  age  of  a  turkey?" 

Pat — "By  the  teeth." 

Casey-^"A  turkey  hasn't  got  teeth." 

Pat — "No;  but  I  have." 

ROAST  TURKEY,   STUFFED. 

Select  a  young,  good  sized  bird,  singe,  draw,  wash  and 
dry.  Stuff  with  a  mixture  of  dry  bread,  soaked  in  warm 
water,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  melted  butter,  sage-savory, 
celery,  grated  onion,  mixed  herbs,  and  one  beaten  egg.  Sew- 
up  the  openings,  tie  the  legs  and  wings  well  into  the  body. 
Put  in  baker  with  plenty  water,  containing  butter  (onion  juice, 
if  preferred),  pepper  and  salt.  Baste  well  and  often,  in  mod- 
erate oven.  If  tips  of  wings,  legs,  neck  and  tail  seem  to  brown 
and  bake  too  rapidly,  cover  with  a  dough  jacket  made  stiff  of 
flour  and  water,  which  must'be  removed  before  taking  from  the 
oven.  Serve  hot.  Garnish  platter  with  water  cress  and  grapes, 
or  any  desired  way.  Always  serve  cranberries. 

Gravy  with   Roast   Turkey. 

Turn  off  some  of  the  grease  from  the  pan,  put  on  fire,  add 
milk  or  water,  allowing  it  to  cook  until  the  dressing,  etc., 
loosens  from  bottom  of  pan,  stir  in  browned  flour,  add  the 
cooked  and  chopped  giblets.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Win.  F.  Der- 
mont, Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  297 

CREAMED  CHICKEN  IN  MACARONI  MOULD. 

Cook  the  day  before  serving  one-half  package  of  macaroni 
in  salted  water  until  tender,  do  not  break  the  pipes,  wash  off 
the  paste  in  cold  water  by  holding  the  dish  under  the  cold  water 
faucet,  butter  well  any  mould  with  a  flat  surface,  arrange  the 
macaroni  first  on  the  bottom,  and  then  on  the  sides.  Have 
ready  two  large  cups  of  creamed  chicken,  hot  and  quite  thick, 
place  in  center  of  mould  till  the  dish  is  full.  Bake  half  an  hour 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  hot  oven,  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter, 
serve  with  a  cream  sauce  sprinkled  with  rings  of  olives  or  Hor- 
net Mushrooms. 

WHOLE  FOWL. 

Singe  the  chicken,  turkey  or  duck,  wipe  inside  and  out  with 
a  damp  cloth  and  dust  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt ;  then  lay  in 
the  casserole  and  skewer  to  the  breast  four  thin  slices  of  fat 
salt  pork.  If  stuffing  is  desired  place  it  in  the  chicken  just  as 
you  would  if  roasting  in  a  pan.  Set  the  breast-side  down  in 
the  casserole  and  add  the  giblets,  which  consists  of  the  liver, 
gizzard,  heart  and  the  neck,  which  should  be  chopped  closely 
to  the  breast,  leaving  the  neck  skin  attached  so  to  bring  over 
and  securely  covering  the  breast  cavity  ensuring  the  stuffing 
from  oozing  out.  Truss  the  chicken  neatly  as  it  will  be  more 
easily  cooked  and  carved.  Cover  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes,  counting  from  the  time  the  fowl  begins  to 
cook ;  then  reduce  the  heat  and  cook  until  tender.  An  hour 
before  this  point  arrives,  skim  off  all  surplus  fat;  then  add 
quartered,  pared  potatoes,  parboiled  onions  (small  ones)  to 
the  casserole;  cover  and  return  to  the  oven  to  finish  cooking. 
This  resembles  roasted  chicken  or  turkey  and  the  closely  :ov- 
ered  utensil  keeps  the  flavor  confined  to  the  fowl. 

A  Lucky  Turkey. 

After  having  listened,  at  a  Christmas  dinner,  to  Jones'  stale  jokes, 
Smith  said:  "I  say,  Jones,  the  Christmas  turkey  is  luckier  than  we 
are." 

Jones — "In  what  way?" 

Smith — "He  isn't  stuffed  with  chestnuts  until  after  he  is  dead." 


298  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  299 


PUDDINGS 


"The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." 
ANGEL  PUDDING. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  light,  two  table- 
spoons flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  cup  chopped 
dates,  one  cup  English  walnuts  chopped,  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Mix  and  bake  in  pudding  dish  for  forty  minutes.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Miss  Ida  Douglass,  Indianapolis,  Ind. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

Fill  a  quart  pan  alternately  with  sliced  sour  apples  and 
sugar,  add  one-half  cup  of  water,  put  weight  on  cover  and 
bake  three  hours. — Mrs.  George  A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

Place  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs  and  apples  chopped 
fine  in  a  pudding  dish  sprinkled  over  with  sugar  and  add  a 
little  nutmeg,  several  pieces  of  butter.  Pour  over  .all  a  cup 
of  boiling  water,  cook  until  apples  are  done.  Serve  with  cream 
and  sugar. — Mrs.  D.  J.  Brarnan,  Oceanside,  Calif. 

BANANA  PUDDING. 

Make  a  soft  custard  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint 
milk,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  flavoring  to  taste.  When  cold 
pour  this  over  alternate  layers  of  lady  fingers,  and  sliced 
bananas  arranged  in  a  dish,  and  place  the  well  beaten  \vhites, 
flavored  and  sweetened,  on  top. — Manistee  Public  School, 
Manistee,  Mich. 

BATTER   PUDDING. 

One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  two 
eggs,  one  cup  milk,  two  heaping  cups  flour  mixed  into  the 
batter,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Any  sauce  may  be  used  with  this  pudding. — Mrs.  W.  Patter- 
son, Williams,  Ariz. 

BLACK  PUDDING. 

One  teacupful  black  molasses,  one-fourth  teacupful  butter, 
one-half  teacupful  sour  milk,  two  cupfuls  flour,  one-half  tea- 
sponful  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  cinnamon  and  cloves. 
Steam  one  hour,  then  set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Sauce :  One 
teacupful  sugar,  three- fourths  teacupful  butter  beaten  to-  a- 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  3Q1 

cream;  add  one  egg,   one  tablespoonful  vinegar,   cooked   in 
rice  boiler. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BLACKBERRY    PUDDING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one- 
half  cup  sour  milk  and  one  level  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  break  in  one  egg,  stir  well,  add  two  cups  well 
floured  blackberries,  one  tablespoon  soft  butter,  mix  again. 
Place  in  an  ungreased  covered  mould  or  a  tightly  covered 
basin  and  steam  two  hours.  Ten  minutes  before  serving  turn 
from  the  mould  and  put  on  tin  and  place  in  oven  a  moment 
to  dry. 

Sauce  for  Above. 

Place  in  sauce  pan  one-fourth  cup  soft  butter,  one  cup  pul- 
verized sugar,  beat  thoroughly,  add  one  cup  sweet  milk.  Be- 
fore serving  hot  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  sea- 
son with  vanilla  or  mashed  fresh-  berries,  garnish  with  black- 
berries on  the  stems  and  leaves,  and  tablespoon  whipped 
cream  placed  alternately  with  the  berries  and  leaves.  Quan- 
tity for  six  persons. — Miss  Harriet  E.  Teft,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

Two  cupfuls  sweet  milk,  one  crustless  slice  of  bread  and 
butter  one-half  inch  thick,  three  eggs,  saving  one  white  for  the 
meringue.  Sweeten  to  taste.  One-fourth  cupful  seedless  rais- 
ins, rinse  and  put  in  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  cover. 
Boil  five  to  ten  minutes,  cut  raisins  in  halves ;  season  with  va- 
nilla, nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Put  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
on  top — small  pieces.  Bake,  cover  with  a  meringue,  and 
brown  in  oven  slightly.  If  desired,  serve  with  hard  sauce,  or 
cream  and  sugar. — Mrs.  Jake  Buss,  Williams,  Ariz. 

"Cast  your  bread  in   the;  cupboard 

And  in  a  few  days 
It   will   come    out   in   a   pudding." 

EXCELLENT  BREAD  PUDDING. 

One  pint  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  milk,  yolks  four  eggs 
beaten  light,  one  small  cup  sugar,  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
butter  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  all  together  and  bake.  When  cool 
spread  with  preserve  or  jelly.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
with  one  tablespoon  powdered  sugar  and  juice  of  lemon; 
brown  lightly,  serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Poison,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 


302  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

BUCKEYE  PUDDING. 

Two-thirds  cupful  molasses,  one-half  cupful  warm  water, 
one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved;  one  and  one-half  cupfuls 
flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cupful  chopped  raisins ;  steam  two 
hours.  Sauce :  One  cupful  pulverized  sugar,  one-half  cupful 
butter,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  hot  water. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  hot  water  and  then  whites  of 
two  well  beaten  eggs  and  chopped  walnuts.  Serve  just  warm. 
— Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CARROT  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  carrots  grated  raw,  one  cup  of  grated  raw  po- 
tatoes, one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  and  three- 
fourth  cups  of  currants  and  raisins  each,  one-half  cup  of  suet 
or  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  tea- 
spoonful  cinnamon  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  pinch  of 
salt.  Bake. — Mrs.  S.  G.  Elliott,  Kingman,  Ariz. 

CARROT  PUDDING. 

Oue  cup  sugar,  mix  with  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  of 
grated  carrots,  one  cup  of  grated  potatoes,  one  cup  of  fruit 
(i.  e.,  raisins,  currants  and  citron),  one  cup  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  all  kinds  of  spices,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
mixed  with  grated  potatoes  and  put  in  last. — Mrs.  John  Clark. 
Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CARROT  PUDDING. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  the  red  part  of  two  large  carrots  after 
they  have  been  boiled,  add  a  slice  of  grated  bread,  two  ounces 
of  melted  butter,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  mar- 
malade, one-half  teaspoon  of  grated  nutmeg,  four  well  beaten 
eggs.  Mix  all  well  together  ,bake  in  a  dish  lined  with  puff 
paste. — Contributed. 

CHERRY  PUDDING. 

Two  cupfuls  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda  in  one  cupful 
sour  milk,  one-fourth  cupful  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut, 
pinch  salt.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  first,  then  break  in  one  egg, 
add  milk  and  flour  alternately  to  keep  smooth,  then  cupful 
cherries.  Butter  inside  of  individual  cups,  fill  one-third  full, 
steam  one  hour  or  more;  serve  hot.  Use  any  butter  sauce, 
juice  of  cherries  added. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hart- 
ford, Conn. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  303 

HOT    CHOCOLATE    PUDDING. 

Two  ounces  chocolate,  one  pint  milk,  one  teacupful  bread 
crumbs,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  cupful 
butter,  melted ;  one  cupful  sugar,  one-half  cupful  raisins,  one- 
half  cupful  currants,  one-eigth  of  a  nutmeg,  grated.  Boil  the 
chocolate,  milk  and  salt  together,  and  when  smooth  pour  over 
the  crumbs;  let  it  stand  one  hour,  then  mash  fine.  Beat  the 
eggs  light,  add  them  and  the  melted  butter,  and  then  the 
fruit,  spices  and  sugar.  Grease  a  pan,  turn  in  the  mixture, 
and  steam  one  hour.  Serve  with  cream  or  a  pudding  sauce. 
—Mrs.  Jos.  S.  Amundsen,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE   PUDDING. 

One  pint  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  of  milk ;  scald  together, 
add  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  eight  table- 
spoons grated  chocolate;  when  cool,  two  well  beaten  eggs. 
Bake. 

Sauce. 

One  tablespoon  butter  and  one  cup  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream ; 
add  vanilla  and  well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  whip  in  the 
whites. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Ayer,  Detroit,  Mich. 

CHOCOLATE   PUDDIXG. 

Half  a  cup  of  tapioca,  add  boiling  water,  stir  constantly 
until  thick  and  clear.  Stir  in  one-fourth  cake  of  baker's 
chocolate  and  remove  from  the  stove.  Add  one  cup  of  sugar, 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Pour  into  individual  cups  with 
whipped  cream  and  halves  of  English  walnuts  on  each  cup. — 
Miss  Vienna  Ogborne,  Newcastle,  Ind. 

CHOCOLATE   PUDDING. 

Two  cups  milk,  two  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  two  table- 
spoons sugar,  two  tablespoons  cornstarch,  vanilla.  Put  milk 
and  sugar  in  double  boiler.  Mix  the  other  ingredients  to- 
gether and  when  the  milk  and  sugar  boil,  pour  the  mixture  in, 
stirring  about  four  minutes.  Remove  and  place  in  molds. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  A.  F.  Johnson,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

COCOANUT    PUDDING. 

Place  one  pint  of  milk  on  stove,  when  boiling  add  two  table- 
spoons of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  and  scant  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  stir  until  smooth,  take  from  fire,  stir  in  the 


304  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  slightly 
cool  add  one-half  of  a  grated  cocoanut. — Mrs.  George  A. 
Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

MRS.    SYNIMES'    CHRISTMAS    PUDDING. 

One-half  pint  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  package 
gelatine  dissolved  in  one-half  pint  cold  water,  one-half 
cup  almonds  (blanched)  chopped,  one  cup  raisins  chop- 
ped, five  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  teaspoons  vanilla,  three 
dozen  macaroons,  broken  up.  Heat  milk,  sugar,  gelatine  and 
water  first,  add  other  ingredients  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  thick.  Pour  into  moulding  dish.  When  cold,  slice  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream  or  any  pudding  sauce. — Miss  Kath- 
arine Wells,  Glendale,  Calif. 

COCOANUT    PUDDING. 

Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  salt, 
one-half  cup  cocoanut,  one  cup  cracker  crumbs ;  flavor  to  taste. 
Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  salt  until  light,  add  hot  milk,  cocoanut 
and  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  thirty-five  minutes. 

Sauce. 

One-half  cup  creamed  butter.  Before  serving  add  one  cup 
powdered  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful 
flavoring,  the  \vhite  of  an  egg  beaten  foamy,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  fruit  juice. — Mrs.  T.  E.  Pollock,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

WHITE    CORNSTARCH    PUDDING. 

One  pint  milk,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  two  tablespoons  corn- 
starch,  salt,  boil  till  it  thickens  and  is  well  cooked :  remove 
from  the  stove  and  stir  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs, 
flavor  with  vanilla  and  mould.  To  be  eaten  with  a  custard 
sauce  made  with  a  pint  of  milk,  three-fourths  cup  sugar  and 
yolks  of  two  eggs. — Miss  Vienna  Ogborne,  New  Castle,  Incl. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  small  tablespoon 
butter,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  egg.  one 
and  one-half  cups  flour.  Bake  in  greased  pan.  Serve  with 
hot  cream  sauce. 

Sauce. 

White  of  an  egg  beaten  stiff,  one  teaspoon  cornstarch,  one- 
half  cup  powdered  sugar  gradually  beaten  into  white  of  an 
egg,  add  yolk  and  beat.  Pour  on  one  cup  of  boiling  milk,  add 
one  tablespoon  butter,  bring  to  boil,  flavor. — Mrs.  McDonald 
Robinson,  Williams,  Ariz, 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  305 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  creamed;  one  beaten 
egg  and  one  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour  and  two  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  lemon 
sauce. — Mary  Beatrice  (Beebe)  Smith,  Williams,  Ariz. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One  cup  flour,  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  butter.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add  beaten  egg 
and  milk,  then  butter.  Bake  in  shallow  pans. 

Sauce  for   Same. 

One  tablespoon  flour,  two  tablespons  sugar,  four  tablespoons 
cocoa.  Mix,  then  add  boiling  water  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 
—Mrs.  W.  Patterson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

DATE  PUDDING. 

One  cup  boiled  rice,  one  cup  dates  (seeded)  stewed  with  one 
cup  sugar  and  a  little  water.  Thoroughly  mix  rice  and  dates. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  McDonald  Robinson,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

DATE  PUDDING. 

One-half  pound  dates,  one-fourth  pound  suet.  Chop  dates 
and  suet  until  very  fine,  then  add  five  ounces  sugar,  one-half 
pound  finely  grated  bread  crumbs,  nutmeg  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Mix  all  together  with  two  well  beaten  eggs,  put  the  mixture 
into  a  pudding  mould,  and  boil  or  steam  four  hours. — Con- 
tributed, Saginaw,  Mich. 

DATE  PUDDING. 

One  pound  stoned  dates,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
ginger,  one  scant  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  milk,  one-half 
pound  suet,  one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  two  eggs, 
and  one  cup  soft  bread  crumbs.  Run  dates  and  suet  together 
through  a  meat  grinder.  Mix  all  the  ingredients,  adding  the 
beaten  eggs  last.  Turn  into  a  well  buttered  baking  dish  or 
mould  and  bake  two  hours.  Serve  with  a  hard  sauce. — Mrs. 
Roy  Perkins,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LIGHT   FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Work  one-half  cupful  of  butter  until  creamy,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  milk 
and  two  cupfuls  of  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  three  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder;  then  add  three- fourths  of  a  cupful  of 


306  TH£   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

raisins  seeded  and  cut  in  pieces,  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  citron 
thinly  sliced  and  cut  in  narrow  strips;  fruit  to  be  dredged 
with  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  flour.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
melon  mould,  tie  down  cover  and  steam  one  and  one-half 
hours.  This  recipe  is  given  in  consideration  of  the  children. 

STEAMED   FIG   PUDDING. 

One  pound  figs  chopped  fine,  three-fourths  pound  suet,  one 
cup  sugar,  one  pound  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  some  cinnamon 
and  any  scraps  of  jelly  you  may  have.  Knead  well  with  the 
hands,  steam  six  hours.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. — Mrs.  George 
A.  Cole,  Middletown,  Conn. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

One-half  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  egg, 
four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one-half  cup  chopped  raisins, 
one-half  cup  chopped  nuts,  one  and  one-half  cups  graham  flour 
(roll  raisins  and  nuts  in  the  flour),  one-half  teaspoon  soda, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Boil  two  and  one-half  hours  in  double 
boiler.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  raisins,  one  teaspoon  of  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
graham  flour,  stir  together.  One  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon- 
ful soda,  one  cup  sour  milk.  Sauce :  One-half  cup  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  one  cup  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  vinegar, 
one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  t\vo  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch.— 
Mrs.  Jas.  A.  Johnson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  graham  flour,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  cup  raisins,  two  teaspoons  soda.  Steam  three  hours 
or  more.  To  be  eaten  with  any  desired  sauce. — Mrs.  Geo.  \\  . 
Glowner,  Williams,  Ariz. 

HARVARD  PUDDING. 

Harvard  Pudding  has  the  advantage  of  being  inexpensive 
as  well  as  being  toothsome  and  very  nutritious.  Melt  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  one-half  cupful  of  molasses,  one- 
half  cupful  of  milk  and  one  and  two-thirds  cupfuls  of  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one- 
fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  clove,  alspice  and  nutmeg ; 
then  add  one-half  pound  of  dates  stoned  and  cut  in  pieces. 


WILUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  3Q7 

Turn  into  a  buttered  mold,  cover  and  let  steam  two  and  one- 
half  hours.    This  is  an  economical  dish.     Serve  with 

Sterling  Sauce. 

Cream  one-half  cupful  of  butter  and  add  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar ;  then  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Add 
the  milk  very  gradually,  or  a  separation  will  probably  take 
place.  Three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  raisins  seeded  and  cut  in 
pieces  may  be  substituted  for  the  dates  in  the  pudding,  but  the 
dates  have  a  more  distinctive  flavor. 

BOILED   INDIAN   PUDDING. 

Two  cups  cornmeal,  one-half  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  chopped 
suet,  one  and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt.  Boil  in  a  mold  or 
bag  three  or  four  hours,  or  more.  Serve  with  maple  sugar  and 
cream,  or  with  a  thin  syrup  of  browrn  sugar  with  a  little  butter 
and  nutmeg. — Contributed,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

INDIAN    BAKED    PUDDING. 

One-third  cup  corn  meal,  scalded  in  two  cups  of  milk,  add 
two  cups  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half 
cups  brown  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  salt,  nutmeg, 
one  teaspoon  ginger.  Bake  one  hour.  Serve  with  cream. — 
Contributed,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

NEW   ENGLAND  BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk  and  turn  it  over  a  pint  sifted  Indian 
meal.  Stir  well,  so  as  to  scald  the  meal;  then  mix  three 
tablespoonfuls  wheat  flour  with  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  stirring 
it  gradually  into  the  flour,  so  as  to  have  it  free  from  lumps. 
Turn  it  on  to  the  Indian  meal  and  mix  the  whole  well  together. 
When  the  whole  is  just  lukewarm,  beat  three  eggs  with  three 
tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  stir  into  the  pudding,  with  one  tea- 
spoonfuls  salt,  two  of  cinnamon,  or  half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  or  suet,  chopped  fine.  Add,  if  you 
wish  the  pudding  very  rich,  a  cupful  seeded  raisins,  but  they 
should  not  be  put  in  until  the  pudding  has  baked  five  or  six 
minutes.  If  .raisins  are  put  in  ,an  additional  cupful  of  milk  will 
be  required,  as  they  absorb  a  great  deal  of  moisture.  A  very 
good  Indian  pudding  may  be  made  without  eggs,  if  a  cup 
more  meal  is  used  and  no  flour.  It  takes  three  hours  to  bake 
an  Indian  pudding  without  eggs ;  with  eggs,  it  takes  less  time. 
— John.Langowsky,  Fray  Marcos,  Williams,  Ariz. 


308  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

MARSHMALLOW    PUDDING. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  of  gelatine,  one  cup  of  boiling 
water,  four  whites  of  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of 
vanilla. — Mrs.  John  Clark,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING. 

Three  cups  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  yolks  five 
eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  pint  thin  cream,  one-fourth 
cup  pineapple  syrup,  one  and  one-half  cups  French  chestnuts. 
Make  custard  of  first  four  ingredients,  strain,  cool,  add  cream, 
pineapple  syrup.  Then  chill.  To  prepare  chestnuts :  Shell, 
cook  in  boiling  water  till  soft  and  force  through  strainer.  Line 
a  two  quart  melon  mould  with  part  of  mixture.  To  remainder 
add  one-half  cups  candied  fruit,  cut  small  one-fourth  cup  Sul- 
tana raisins  and  eight  chestnuts  broken  in  pieces  first  soaked 
several  hours  in  Maraschino  syrup,  fill  mould,  cover,  pack  in 
salt  and  ice.  Let  stand  two  hours.  Serve  with  whipped  cream, 
sweetened  and  flavored  with  Marachino  syrup. — Mrs.  H.  R. 
Ferguson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING. 

One  tablespoon  gelatine,  one-third  cup  cold  water,  one 
cup  orange  juice,  one-third  cup  boiling  water,  one  cup  sugar 
and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  whipped  cream,  one  tablespoon 
sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  one- 
third  cup  cold  water;  when  soft,  pour  on  boiling  water,  add 
sugar  and  lemon  juice,  cool  and  when  firm  stir  in  orange  juice. 
Then  beat  with  egg  beater,  whipped  cream,  vanilla,  and  sugar, 
then  add  to  gelatine.  Line  mould  with  sections  of  orange,  fill 
with  prepared  filling,  and  put  on  ice  to  cool.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Dermont,  Metcalf,  Ariz. 

NEW  PUDDING. 

Cover  one-third  package  of  gelatine  with  cold  water,  let 
stand  an  hour,  add  one  pint  boiling  water  and  juice  of  two 
lemons,  sweeten  to  taste.  When  cold  and  begins  to  thicken 
whip  stiff,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  beat  all 
lightly.  Use  the  yolk  of  three  eggs,  and  one  pint  of  milk  for 
a  custard  to  serve  over  it. — Mrs.  George  A.  Cole,  Middletown, 
Conn. 

DELICIOUS   NUT   PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  cup  seedless  raisins,  three  cups  flour,  one  pound  of 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  309 

walnuts,  one-half  pound  chopped  figs,  one  grated  nutmeg, 
one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  and  steam 
three  hours. — Mrs.  W.  Patterson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Peel  and  slice  four  oranges,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  set 
aside  for  one-half  hour.  Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  one  tablespoon  cornstarch  and  one  pint  milk.  Pour  this 
over  the  oranges.  Whip  fhe  whites  of  the  eggs  and  put  on 
top  and  brown.  Set  on  ice  until  served. — Miss  Watson,  Bay 
City,  Mich. 

PINEAPPLE    PUDDING. 

Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one  pint  water  for  one  hour, 
add  one  pint  boiling  water  and  one  pint  sugar.  Place  over  the 
fire,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  remove  from  the  fire  and  add 
one  can  of  grated  pineapple  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Set 
on  ice  to  form  and  when  cold  serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  J.  D. 
Munson,  Manistee,  Mich. 

PLUM    PUDDING. 

One  cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  chopped  nuts  (English  wal- 
nuts), one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  currants,  one  teaspoon  extract 
of  lemon,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
three  mixing  spoonfuls  of  molasses,  three  cups  of  flour.  Steam 
four  hours. 

Sauce. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter.  Warmed,  but 
not  boiled,  to  which  add  two  well  beaten  eggs  just  before  serv- 
ing.— Mrs.  John  Clark,  Sr.,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

PLUM   PUDDING. 

One-half  pound  currants,  one-half  pound  bread  crumbs,  one- 
half  pound  raisins,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  flour,  three  eggs,  one-half  pound  suet.  One-half 
pound  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  citron,  grated  peel  of  one 
lemon,  a  pinch  of  soda  and  a  little  salt,  one  ounce  mixed 
spices,  one  cup  of  milk.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and  then  add  the 
liquids.  If  too  firm  add  a  little  milk,  divide  the  mixture  in  two 
parts,  put  in  cloth  and  boil  four  hours.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 
— Mrs.  John  Langowsky,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PLUM    PUDDING. 

One  cup  suet,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  rais- 
ins, one  cup  currants,  one-half  cup  citron,  three  eggs,  three 


310  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

cups  flour,  one  tablespoon  each  of  spices,  small  spoon  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  milk.  Steam  four  or  five  hours. — -Mrs.  David  Roberts, 
Yuma,  Ariz. 

ENGLISH    PLUM    PUDDING. 

One-fourth  pound  each  chopped  suet,  raisins,  currants  and 
sultanas,  two  ounces  each  chopped  mixed,  lemon,  orange,  cit- 
ron peel  and  bread  crumbs,  one-fourth  pound  brown  sugar, 
two  eggs,  two  ounces  vinegar,  one  ounce  chopped  almonds,  lit- 
tle grated  nutmeg  and  salt.  Pour  flour  into  a  basin,  add  salt, 
crumbs,  floured  currants,  raisins,  sultanas,  and  the  peels.  Mix 
all  well  together,  add  grated  nutmeg,  almonds,  vinegar,  the 
beaten  sugar  and  eggs,  and  moisten  with  one  cup  sweet  milk. 
Turn  pudding  in  well  buttered  mold.  Steam  four  hours  or 
more.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  N.  Crawford,  Gold- 
field,  Nev. 

ENGLISH    PLUM    PUDDING. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  seedless  raisins,  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  of  citron  or  lemon  peel  chopped  fine,  three-fourth 
pound  of  suet,  one- fourth  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one-half 
nutmeg,  three-fourth  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  one  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon.  Mix  all  ingredients  together,  beat  five  eggs  until 
light,  add  to  them  one-half  pint  of  grape  or  orange  juice,  pour 
over  the  dry  ingredients,  and  mix  thoroughly,  put  in  cloth  and 
steam  for  five  hours.  This  will  keep  several  months. 

Sauce. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  cream.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  together,  beat  cream  hard 
and  serve. — Mrs.  Wm.  Haynard,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

FROZEN  PLUM  PUDDING  AND  SAUCE. 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  powdered  gelatine,  one-half 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  cupful  of  cold  water,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  whipped  cream,  one-half  cupful  of  clean- 
ed Sultana  raisins,  one  cupful  of  mixed  chopped  nut  meats, 
one-half  pound  of  candied  fruits,  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Dissolve 
the  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water.  Cook  together  the  sugar  and 
cold  water  until  they  form  a  fine  thread.  Add  this  syrup  to  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs;  beat  till  cool,  add  the  gelatine,  fold 
in  the  whipped  cream,  then  add  the  raisins  and  nuts.  Freeze. 
When  ready  to  pack  add  the  candied  fruits  in  alternate  layers. 
If  a  sauce  is  desired  serve  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla. 


WILUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  31 1 

GOOD   SUBSTITUTE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  grated  raw  carrots,  one  cup  of  grated  raw  pota- 
toes, one  cup  of  finely  chopped  suet,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  ground 
allspice,  one  pinch  of  ground  cloves,  one  pinch  of  ground  mace. 
Steam  three  hours,  serve  with  hard  sauce. — R.  K.  Stark- 
weather, Escalante  Hotel,  Ash  Fork,  Ariz. 

ORANGE  ROLLY  POLLY. 

Make  a  very  light  biscuit  dough,  roll  thin,  spread  with  but- 
ter, cover  with  sugar  and  sliced  oranges,  roll  up  and  bake  in  a 
rather  slow  oven.  Serve  with  sauce  made  of :  One  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  enough  boiling  water 
to  make  creamy.  When  cool  add  white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. — Mrs.  Lloyd,  Sedro  Wooley, 
Wash. 

POTATO   PUDDING. 

Twelve  small  potatoes,  twelve  eggs.  Grate  potatoes  after 
boiling  them,  yolk  of  eggs  mixed  with  potatoes  and  salt. 
Whites  beat  to  foam,  mix  after.  Bake  in  quick  oven.  Sauce 
to  taste. — Mrs.  Patrick  Johnston,  Williams,  Ariz.  * 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

Prune  pudding  is  another  eggless  cold  dessert.  Pick  over 
and  wash  one-half  pound  of  prunes,  add  two  cupfuls  of  cold 
water,  cover  and  let  stand  two  hours;  then  cook  in  water 
until  soft.  Remove  stones  from  prunes,  crack  and  add 
meat  from  stones  to  prunes.  Then  add  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
one-inch  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  and  enough  boiling  water 
to  that  in  which  the  prunes  were  cooked  to  make  one  and 
one-third  cupfuls.  Bring  to  the  boiling-point  and  let  boil  ten 
minutes.  Dilute  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  corn  starch  with  cold 
water  until  mixture  will  pour  easily.  Add  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  to  prune  mixture  and  let  simmer  five 
minutes.  Remove  stick  cinnamon,  turn  into  a  pudding-dish 
and  chill.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

PUFF  PUDDING. 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to 
each  egg  yolk,  beaten  in  one  spoonful  at  a  time,  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  or  lemon  extract  stirred  in  drop  by  drop,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of 


312  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

eggs  last.  Bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  rather  quick  oven  and 
serve  immediately  with  plain  cream  or  foamy  sauce. — Mrs. 
Grosse,  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico. 

QUICK  PUFF  PUDDING. 

Stir  one  pint  flour  in  which  has  been  mixed  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  and  a  little  salt,  into  milk  until  very  soft. 
Place  in  the  steamer  well  greased  cups,  put  in  each  a  spoonful 
of  batter,  then  one  of  berries,  (steamed  apples,  peaches,  or 
raisins).  Cover  with  another  spoonful  of  batter,  and  steam 
twenty  minutes.  This  pudding  is  delicious,  made  with  fresh 
strawberries  and  eaten  with  sauce  made  as  follows :  Two  eggs, 
one-half  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  sugar  beaten  thoroughly 
xvith  one  cup  boiling  milk  and  one  of  strawberries. — Mrs.  H.  M. 
Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

Boil  rice  in  double  boiler  in  milk  enough  to  keep  grains  from 
sticking,  season  with  a  little  salt  and  vanilla.  Egg  Custard : 
Two  eggs  to  one  pint  milk,  sugar  to  sweeten,  cook.  Pile  rice 
in  center  of  dish  and  pour  custard  around,  and  garnish  with 
whipped  cream.  Be  sure  and  pour  all  milk  from  rice  before 

serving. — Mrs.  John  Juhl,  Williams,  Ariz. 

i 

RICE  PUDDING. 

Cook  one-fourth  cupful  rice  in  one  pint  milk  and  one-half 
pint  water,  with  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar.  When  cooked  and  cold,  add  one  pint 
sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  white  flour,  two  tablespoonful 
sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  pinch  nutmeg.  Bake  slowly  in 
dish  setting  in  water.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. — Mrs. 
Chas.  Newberg,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAMED   RICE   PUDDING. 

T\vo  tablespoons  rice,  one  quart  milk,  one-fourth  cup  sugar, 
pinch  salt,  flavoring  to  taste.  Bake  two  hours  in  moderate 
oven  in  covered  dish.  Serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  Montgomery, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

APPLE  SAGO  PUDDING. 

Pare  and  core  one-half  dozen  tart  apples,  pour  over  them  one 
cup  of  water,  cover  tight  and  cook  until  the  apples  are  quite 
tender  but  not  quite  done,  pour  off  the  juice,  fill  the  cores  with 
sugar,  using  one  cupful,  pour  over  them  two-thirds  cup  of 
fine  sago  which  has  been  soaked  one  hour  in  cold  water,  and 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  313 

on  top  of  this  put  bits  of  butter  and  the  juice  from  the  apples, 
also  a  fine  sprinkling  of  cinnamon.  If  apples  are  not  very  tart 
sprinkle  over  them  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon.  Bake  rather 
rapidly  for  one  hour. — Contributed,  Manistee,  Mich. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Snow  pudding  that  is  "different" :  Thoroughly  mix  one- 
fourth  of  a  cupful  of  corn-starch  with  one-third  of  a  cupful  of 
sugar  and  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  cold  water 
gradually,  until  mixture  will  pour  easily;  then  add  gradually 
to  two  cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  Bring  to  the  boiling-point 
and  let  simmer  five  minutes ;  then  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  until  stiff  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  Turn 
into  a  mould,  chill  thoroughly,  remove  from  mold  and  serve 
with 

Sauce. 

Scald  one  and  three-fourths  cupfuls  of  milk  in  double  boiler. 
Mix  thoroughly  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch  and  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly,  add  one-fourth  of  a  cupful 
of  milk ;  then  add  to  dry  ingredients.  Turn  mixture  into  the 
scalded  milk  and  cook  six  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Strain, 
cool  and  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  extract. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  suet,  chopped 
fine,  or  one-half  cup  melted  butter;  one  cup  raisins,  one-half 
cup  currants,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon 
soda.  Mix  well,  salt  and  spice  to  taste  and  steam  two  hours. 
—Mrs.  H.  M.  Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  suet,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  cups 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  three  cups  flour  , one-half  pack- 
age raisins,  one-half  package  currants,  one  teaspoon  ground 
cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon.  Steam  four  hours.  Use  any 
sauce  desired. — Mrs.  Amos  Adams,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  three- 
fourths  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  currants,  one  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  little  bit  allspice,  one  tea- 
spoon salt;  enough  flour  to  make  thick  batter.  Steam  four 
hours.  Serve  with  any  sauce. — Mrs.  Montgomery,  Williams, 
Ariz. 


314  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

SUET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  each  chopped  suet,  molasses,  sweet  milk,  raisins, 
almonds  (blanched),  cut  in  strips  and  browned  in  oven,  three 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  each  cloves,  cin- 
namon, nutmeg  and  soda  and  little  salt.  Steam  three  hours 
and  serve  with  sauce.  This  pudding  is  good  same  day  it  is 
made  or  three  months  afterwards. 

Sauce. 

Beat  two  eggs  till  very  light,  add  one  cup  powdered  sugar 
gradually  and  continue  beating,  add  one-half  cup  cream  whip- 
ped and  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Philbrook,  Bisbee, 
Ariz. 

SWEET  PUDDING. 

One  pound  seedless  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  one  pound 
suet  chopped  fine,  two  large  cups  grated  bread,  three  small  cups 
flour,  one  cup  black  molasses,  one  grated  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon 
cloves,  one  teaspoon  allspice,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  two  cups  milk,  three  eggs,  one-half 
pound  figs  chopped  fine,  one  small  glass  sweet  cider.  Wring 
cloth  sack  through  warm  water,  then  flour  well  and  put  batter 
in  it,  tie  well,  allowing  plenty  room  for  batter  to  swell.  Steam 
five  or  six  hours.  Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  Harland  J.  Gray, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  suet  chopped  very  fine,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup 
milk,  one  cup  raisins  (also  if  desired  currants  and  citron), 
one  cup  wheat  flour,  two  cups  graham  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
baking  powder,  one-half  (scant)  teaspoonful  baking  soda, 
one  large  apple  chopped  fine ;  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to 
suit  taste.  Put  in  well  greased  moulds  and  steam  three  hours 
or  more. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Glowner,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  suet  chopped  fine  and  rubbed  in  three  cups  of  flour, 
two  well  beaten  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
cooking  molasses,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  each  of 
cinnamon,  cloves,  and  allspice.  A  little  salt  and  one  teaspoon 
of  soda  in  one  tablespoon  of  boiling  water,  two  cups  raisins 
and  steam  three  hours.  Serve  warm  with  lemon  sauce. 

Sauce. 

Beat  to  cream  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teacup  of  butter, 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  three  well  beaten  eggs. 


WIUJAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  315 

a  half  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  two  cupfuls  boiling  water. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  and  stir  continually. — Mrs.  A.  F. 
Poison,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SWEET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cup 
milk,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  pinch 
salt,  ground  mixed  spices  to  taste,  three  cups  flour.     Steam, 
three  and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.  A.  G.  Rounseville,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

CHERRY  TAPIOCA   PUDDING. 

Drain  a  pint  can  cherries,  soak  a  cup  pearl  tapioca  in  two 
cups  cold  water  till  the  water  is  absorbed,  simmer  them  with 
the  juice  of  the  cherries  for  one-half  hour,  add  the  cherries, 
turn  into  a  mould  and  set  away.  When  cold  serve  with  a 
sauce  made  of  one  cup  cream  whipped  stiff,  mixed  with  the 
stiff  white  of  one  egg,  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar  and  flavor 
to  taste. — J.  W.  Baylis,  Williams,  Ariz. 

A  GOOD  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  egg,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar, 
slice  of  bread,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  seeded  raisins, 
flavoring.  Make  a  custard  of  the  egg,  the  milk — allowing  a 
good  measure  of  the  milk — the  sugar,  salt,  and  flavoring 
to  suit.  Pour  into  a  small  baking-dish,  drop  in  a  few  seeded 
raisins  and  place  on  top  of  the  custard  a  small,  thin  slice  of 
bread,  well  buttered  and  thickly  dotted  with  raisins.  The  bread 
should  be  first  dipped  in  the  custard  to  moisten  it.  Bake  the 
pudding  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  custard  becomes  firm  and 
smooth — say  about  half  an  hour.  The  pudding  is  to  be  eaten 
cold. 


316  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  317 


318  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


PUDDING  SAUCES 


CHERRY   PUDDING   SAUCE. 

One  cupful  cherry  juice,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  water, 
butter  size  of  a  walnut,  one  tablespoon  cornstarch.  Put  the 
water  in  double  boiler  and  when  it  becomes  hot,  add  the 
creamed  butter  and  sugar  and  the  cherry  juice;  when  scalding 
hot  add  the  thickening.  If  too  thick,  thin  with  more  cherry 
juice.  Serve  hot  with  whole  or  half  cherries  in  the  sauce. 
—Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHOCOLATE    CREAM    SAUCE. 

Two  tablespoon fuls  pulverized  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  but- 
ter, one  cupful  sweet  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  cocoa  or  choco- 
late, one  teaspoonful  cornstarch,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  salt,  va- 
nilla. Dissolve  in  double  boiler  sugar  and  chocolate,  add 
cream  gradually;  let  come  near  a  boil,  add  the  beaten  yolks 
and  starch,  stir  until  it  thickens — more  cornstarch  may  be 
necessary;  take  off  the  fire,  add  the  butter,  strain  and  flavor. 
Very  nice  with  chopped  nuts  added. — Contributed,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

CREAMY    SAUCE. 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
one-half  cupful  of  cream.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  or 
lemon.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  well,  then  add  cream.  Beat 
well,  and  just  before  serving,  place  dish  in  a  bowl  of  hot 
water  and  stir  sauce  until  smooth  and  creamy,  but  not  enough 
to  melt  the  butter.  When  the  cream  is  added,  the  sauce  has  a 
curdled  appearance.  This  is  removed  by  beating  just  enough 
to  blend  the  materials  thoroughly.  It  is  not  meant  to  be  a  hot 
sauce,  and  if  it  becomes  oily  in  the  heating,  place  on  ice  and  beat 
until  thick.  Serve  with  hot  pudding. — Contributed,  Saginaw, 
Mich. 

COLD  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Two  cupfuls  rich  milk,  two  cupfuls  heavy  sweet  whipped 
cream,  four  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
gelatine.  Put  in  double  boiler,  milk  and  sugar ;  let  it  become 
very  hot,  then  add  the  dissolved  gelatine,  stir  well,  and  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  remove  from  the  fire,  strain  and  cool  some ;  be- 
'fore  it  thickens  add  the  whipped  cream.  This  sauce  may  be 
used  for  many  cold  puddings,  flavored  with  fruit  juices,  vanilla. 


320  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

chopped  nuts,  browned  almonds  or  pistachio;  and  it  can  be 
colored  to  suit  any  requirements. — Contributed,  Jersey  City, 
New  Jersey. 


COLD  PUDDING   SAUCE. 


Yolks  of  two  eggs,  thoroughly  beaten  with  one-half  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  thick  cream;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Do  not 
cook. — Mrs.  A.  O.  Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 


ORANGE    CREAM   SAUCE. 

Cream  one  cupful  sugar  and  one-half  cupful  butter,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  mix  well.  Pour  over  this  one- 
half  pint  of  boiling  water,  the  juice  of  one  orange. 

ORANGE  SAUCE. 

Beat  currant  jelly  with  a  silver  fork  and  measure  out  six 
tablespoonfuls ;  to  this  add  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  the 
grated  rind  of  two  oranges.  Stir  until  well  mixed  and  let 
stand  five  minutes:  then  add  two-thirds  cupful  orange  juice, 
two  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt 
and  one-eighth  teaspoonful  cayenne. 

WHIPPED    CREAM    SAUCE   FOR   DECORATING. 

To  obtain  a  firm  cream  which  can  be  used  for  ornamenting 
cold  puddings  with  bag  and  tube,  use  double  cream  (or  cream 
that  is  two  days  old).  Prepare  the  cream  some  time  before  it 
is  wanted ;  put  it  in  a  basin  and  beat  on  ice,  or  in  a  cold  place, 
with  slow  and  even  motion  till  the  beater  stands  in  the  cream, 
or  till  it  can  be  drawn  to  a  point.  Fast  beating  breaks  the 
cream,  makes  it  curdle  and  get  weak;  a  pinch  of  salt  added 
assists  in  giving  better  consistency  to  the  cream.  After  the 
cream  is  beaten  firm,  put  it  on  a  sieve  to  drain  for  thirty 
minutes.  To  use  it,  beat  into  one  quart  of  cream  from  four  to 
six  tablespoonful  fine  powdered  sugar,  add  flour,  and  use  with 
bag  and  tube.  The  puddings  may  be  decorated  in  reverse 
colors,  using  pink  and  white  cream. — Contributed.  Williams, 
Ariz. 

FOAMING    SAUCE. 

Mix  one  cupful  powdered  sugar  and  one-half  cupful  butter 
together.  Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  one  lemon.  Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  mix  all  together. 
Just  before  serving  stir  in  quickly  ont  cup  boiling  water.  Add 
chopped  nuts,  or  any  crushed  fruit. — Mrs.  Grosse.  Albuquer- 
que. New  Mexico. 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  321 

FRUIT    SAUCE. 

Fruit  sauces  may  be  made  from  any  surplus  juices  left  over 
from  canned  fruits.  The  juice  should  be  boiled  down  to  a 
syrup,  adding  more  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  lemon ;  or  con- 
starch  and  eggs  may  be  used  for  thickening.  For  cold  sauce 
no  starch  is  required,  because  the  syrup  thickens  sufficiently 
when  cold.  Pieces  of  fruits  may  be  added. 

HARD    SAUCE. 

Four  ounces  butter,  four  ounces  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
ground  nutmeg.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  till  smooth,  but  not 
creamy,  and  sprinkle  nutmeg  over  it.  Put  in  dish  and  set  away 
to  cool  till  ready  to  serve.— Mrs.  John  Langowsky,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

"HUNTINGTON   SAUCE." 

Boil  one  cup  of  molasses  and  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of 
butter  eight  minutes ;  remove  from  fire  and  add  two  tablespoons 
lemon  juice,  and  a  little  salt.  One  tablespoonful  of  vinegar 
may  be  used  in  place  of  lemon. — Mrs.  George  Barney,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

LEMON   SAUCE. 

One  lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  butter,  one  egg, 
one  tablespoon  cornstarch,  one-half  pint  hot  .water.  Mix  but- 
ter and  sugar,  then  add  egg  and  cornstarch,  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  lemon,  then  the  hot  water.  Cook  till  thick. — Mrs.  Net- 
tie Fleck.  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

LEMON   SAUCE. 

Cream  one  cupful  sugar  and  one-half  cupful  butter.  Add 
the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  mix  well.  Pour  over  this  one- 
half  pint  boiling  water,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  chopped  walnuts. — Mrs.  Dermont, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

MAPLE    SYRUP    SAUCE. 

Dissolve  one-half  pound  maple  sugar  in  one  cupful  of  warm 
water.  Let  it  boil  clear,  and  add  one  tablespoonful  butter. 
Serve  hot. 

NUTMEG    SAUCE. 

Into  two  cupfuls  boiling  water  put  three-fourths  cupful  but- 
ter, two  cupfuls  sugar,  one  small  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  for 
thickening,  one-half  small  grated  nutmeg.  After  boiling  a 
few  minutes,  set  aside  until  slightly  cool,  then  add  the  two  well 
beaten  eggs. 


322  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

STRAWBERRY   SAUOE  FOR   SHORT   CAKE. 

One  cup  pulverized  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream,  one  egg,  beat  white  stiff,  add  yolk  beaten,  then  add 
one-half  cup  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  beating  hard  all  the  time, 
and  two  cups  crushed  strawberries.  Fine. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Cole, 
Middletown,  Conn. 

PLAIN    PUDDING    SAUCE. 

One  pint  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
cornstarch,  the  peel  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Put  in  double 
boiler,  sugar,  water,  peel  and  lemon  juice,  to  cook.  Let  boil  a 
couple  of  minutes,  add  the  dissolved  cornstarch.  Let  boil  clear, 
strain  and  serve.  Flavor  with  any  good  fruit  juice. 

PINEAPPLE  SAUCE. 

One  pint  can  sliced  pineapple  cut  in  dice  (or  one  pint  fresh 
fruit),  one  and  one-half  pounds  pulverized  sugar,  one-half 
pint  cold  water,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoon  cornstarch. 
Put  in  double  boiler,  the  water,  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Let 
come  to  a  good  boil,  add  cornstarch  for  thickening.  \Yhen 
cold  add  the  pineapple.  If  not  thin  enough  for  pudding  sauce, 
add  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter,  Fayetteville,  N.  Y. 

SOUR  SAUCE. 

One  cupful  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one-half  cupful 
vinegar,  one  well  beaten  egg.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add 
egg,  then  vinegar,  and  just  before  serving  add  one-half  cupful 
hot  water. 

STRAWBERRY    SAUCE'. 

One  quart  ripe  berries,  crush  witb  one-half  pound  sugar. 
Press  through  a  sieve  or  colander.  Stir  well  together  in  a  cold 
place  till  the  sugar  and  juice  form  a  clear  sauce,  like  jelVy. 
The  flavor  of  strawberries  is  improved  by  adding  some  orange 
juice  (a  little  acid  hastens  the  jellying  process).  Serve  pieces 
Ijerries  in  sauce.  Other  ripe  fruits  like  apricots,  peaches,  and 
cherries,  may  be  made  into  sauces  by  the  same  process.  These 
fruit  sauces  can  be  served  with  ice  cream  and  frozen  puddings. 
Delicious. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SWEET    CIDER    SAUCE. 

Six  ounces  sugar,  one  pint  water,  three  whole  lemons,  twelve 
cloves,  six  bay  leaves.  Boil  twenty  minutes,  thicken  with  corn 
starch  and  boil  until  it  is  clear,  take  off  stove  and  strain  and 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  323 

add  one-half  pint  of  sweet  cider.  Do  not  boil  any  more  after 
sweet  cider  has  been  added. — Mrs.  John  Langowsky,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 


VINEGAR   SAUCE. 


One  cupful  powdered  sugar  with  one  tablespoonful  flour,  a 
little  nutmeg  and  tablespoon  vinegar,  and  pint  boiling  water. 
Boil  until  it  begins  to  get  a  little  thick,  then  add  a  piece  of 
butter. 


324  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  325 


SALADS 


"To  make  a  perfect  salad  there  should  be  a  spendthrift  for  oil,  a 
miser  for  vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt,  and  a  madcap  to  stir  the  in- 
gredients up  and  mix  them  well  together." — Spanish  Proverb. 

APPLE    SALAD. 

Peel  apples  (raw)  cut  in  squares,  and  put  mayonnaise 
dressing  over  it,  cover  with  nut  meats  (any  kind).  Add  a 
little  celery  if  desired. — Miss  Rogers,  Adrian,  Mich. 

APPLE    SALAD. 

Two  cups  pared  apples  and  one-half  cup  celery  cut  into  dice, 
one-half  cup  chopped  nuts,  one-half  cup  whipped  cream  just  be- 
fore serving,  two  tablespoons  of  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  in  apple  shells  from  which  apple  has  been  removed 
Dressing:  Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  salt, 
mustard  and  ginger  well  beaten  together,  one-half  cup  granu- 
lated sugar,  one-half  cup  vinegar;  boil  twenty  minutes.  Very 
good. — Mrs.  William  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

Groceryman — "Pat,  do  you  like  apples?" 

Pat — "Shure,  sor,  Oi  wudn't  ate  an  apple  for  the  world." 

"Why  how  is  that?" 

"Ough!  didn't  me  ould  mother  die  av  apple  plexy?" 

APPLE,    CRESS  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 

Arrange  on  individual  service  plates  a  bed  of  shredded  celery 
and  cress.  In  the  center  stand  a  tart,  tender  apples,  that  has 
been  cored,  pared  and  sliced  with  a  sharp  knife  so  carefully 
that  it  still  retains  its  original  shape.  Tuck  a  bit  of  the  cress 
in  the  top  of  the  apple  and  pour  over  all  a  French  dressing. 
Do  not  pare  the  apple  until  almost  ready  to  serve,  else  it  will 
discolor  in  the  waiting. 

APPLE    SALAD. 

Slice  tart  apples  in  thin  slices,  and  add  celery  cut  in  cubes, 
and  put  in  the  center  of  the  dish.  Lay  the  slices  of  apple 
around  the  celery  in  layers  overtopping  each  other.  Pour  over 
the  mixture  the  following  dressing:  Two  tablespoons  lemon 
juice,  three  tablespoons  oil,  one-half  teaspoon  sugar,  a  pinch 
cayenne  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  into  this  one-half  cup 
whipped  cream  or  cut  out  the  apple,  leaving  the  shell.  Mince 
apple  and  celery,  pour  into  the  apple  hull,  pour  over  dressing 
and  serve  individually. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Cynthiana,  Ky. 


827 

BAILED  APPLE  SALAD. 

Choose  an  apple  of  good  size  ( Belleflower  is  a  good  variety). 
Bake  until  thoroughly  done  and  the  skin  is  loosened  from  the 
apple.  When  cool  the  skin  can  be  entirely  removed,  the  apple 
center  stuffed  with  nuts  chopped  fine,  and  the  whole  served  on 
lettuce  with  salad  dressing  and  whipped  cream.  This  is  de- 
licious to  the  taste  and  very  pretty  to  the  eye.— Manistee  Pub- 
lic School,  Manistee,  Mich. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD. 

Boil  asparagus  until  tender  (canned  asparagus  may  be  sub- 
stituted). Cut  off  all  the  hard  portions.  Arrange  the  aspara- 
gus in  neat  layers  in  a  salad  bowl,  the  tips  lying  one  way. 
Pour  over  them  a  French  dressing — Mrs.  E.  J.  Gibson,  Santa 
Fe  System. 

BANANA  SALAD. 

Take  ripe  bananas,  peel  and  trim  off  the  ends.  Beat  one 
whole  egg  until  light,  roll  each  banana  in  the  egg,  then  in 
ground  peanuts.  Lay  in  lettuce  leaf,  with  any  good  salad 
dressing  on  top,  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Nordyke,  Santa  Fe 
System,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BANANA  SALAD. 

Put  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one  cupful  of  cold  -water  and 
let  dissolve,  then  add  two  cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  Set  on 
stove  until  all  is  dissolved,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  after  which 
take  off.  Slice  six  bananas  in  same  and  pour  in  a  dish  to  cool. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.— Mrs.  Harland  J.  Gray,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

BANANA  SALAD. 

Roll  sliced  bananas  in  lemon  juice,  then  in  ground  nuts. 
Serve  in  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Chopped  pineapple 
improves  it. — Mrs.  McD.  Robinson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BANANA  AND  PEANUT  SALAD. 

One  cupful  peanuts  ground  fine,  cut  bananas  lengthwise. 
Take  any  salad  dressing.  Roll  bananas  in  peanuts  and  dress- 
ing and  lay  on  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  F.  Machleb,  Anaheim, 
Calif. 

BIRD'S  NEST  SALAD. 

Mash  soft  cheese  into  little  balls  to  represent  eggs,  make  a 
nest  of  lettuce  leaves,  put  in  a  spoonful  salad  dressing.  Sprin- 
kle with  paprika. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Synthiana,  Ky. 


328  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CABBAGE  SALAD. 

One  cup  chopped  walnuts,  one  small  head  of  cabbage  chop- 
ped fine,  two  heads  of  celery  chopped  fine.  Put  in  double 
boiler  one-half  cup  water,  one-half  cup  vinegar  and  bring  to  a 
good  boil.  Then  beat  tablespoon  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon flour,  one  tablespoon  dry  mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
pinch  of  black  pepper,  pinch  of  paprika  (mix  well).  Add  the 
above  to  vinegar  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Cool  and  thin 
with  whipped  cream.  Mix  with  cabbage  just  before  serving. 
—Mrs.  A.  R.  Montgomery,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CABBAGE,  CELERY  AND  NUT  SALAD. 

Take  equal  parts  cabbage  soaked  in  cold  water  until  crisp, 
thin-shredded,  finely-cut  celery  and  butternuts  or  English  wal- 
nuts. Dress  lightly  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar,  then  serve 
with  mayonnaise. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. 

Chop  one  medium  sized  head  of  cabbage,  add  salt  and  dash 
of  paprika,  stir  in  a  cup  sour  cream  beaten  until  it  foams,  to 
which  add  enough  of  any  good  mayonnaise  to  give  it  the 
proper  flavor. — Mrs.  Bertha  S.  Kennedy,  Flagstaff, Ariz. 

Some  one  threw  a  head  of  cabbage  at  an  Irish  orator  while  he  was 
making  a  speech.  He  paused  a  second,  and  said:  "Gentlemen, 
I  only  ask  for  your  ears,  I  don't  care  for  your  heads!"  He  was  not 
bothered  any  more  during  the  remainder  of  his  speech. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. 

One  medium  sized  head  of  cabbage,  shred  and  slice  fine, 
one  bottle  olives,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Over  this  pour  a  dressing  made  of  one  egg 
beaten  light,  lump  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  one  small  cupful 
of  cream,  boil  mixture  and  add  cupful  chopped  nuts.  Pour 
dressing  over  cabbage  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  garnished 
with  slices  of  beet  pickles. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Finney,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

CELERY  AND   CREAM  CHEESE   SALAD. 

Mix  one-half  cup  very  fine  chopped  celery  with  one  cream 
cheese  (Neufchatel).  Make  into  small  balls,  arrange  in  lettuce 
leaves.  Pour  over  a  French  dressing.  Sprinkle  with  cayenne 
and  garnish  with  sliced  radishes.  French  Dressing:  Mix 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  two  table- 
spoons vinegar,  four  tablespoons  olive  oil. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Phil- 
brook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  329 

HOT  SLAW. 

Chop  three  cups  of  nice  white  cabbage  fine,  and  pour  over  it 
a  dressing  made  after  the  following  recipe :  Melt  three  table- 
spoons of  meat  drippings  in  a  frying  pan,  stir  into  it  a  well- 
beaten  egg  and  one  cup  vinegar.  Let  it  boil  up  once  or  twice ; 
cool ;  then  pour  over  the  cabbage. — Contributed. 

CHERRY    SALAD. 

One  can  white  cherries.  Remove  the  seed  and  in  each 
cherry  insert  a  filbert  or  almond,  or  other  nut.  Serve  on  slice 
of  pineapple  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs. 
C.  O.  Robinson,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CHEESE    AND    LETTUCE    SALAD. 

Dress  the  lettuce  with  a  French  dressing,  have  mild  cheese 
cut  in  strips  like  French  fried  potatoes.  Dip  each  strip  care- 
fully in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  brown  in 
boiling  fat  as  quickly  as  possible.  Serve  on  the  lettuce.— 
Mrs.  W.  D.  Finney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHESTNUT  SALAD. 

Make  a  slit  with  a  penknife  in  the  outer  skin  of  three  dozen 
large  chestnuts.  Boil  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water, 
twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  plunge  into  cold  water  until  the 
skins  loosen.  Peel,  cut  into  quarters  and  dust  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Peel  four  large  sour  apples,  core  and  cut  into  pieces 
similar  size  to  nuts.  Cut  some  of  the  dark  meat  of  a  cold 
roasted  turkey  or  duck  into  piece  of  the  same  size,  and  arrange 
on  lettuce  leaves  in  the  salad-bowl  or  on  individual  plates. 
Sprinkle  over  them  two  tablespoonfuls  chopped  mixed  pickles 
and  dress  with  a  French  dressing  of  oil  and  vinegar  and  serve. 

CHICKEN   SALAD. 

Boil  chicken  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  cut  celery  into  small 
sized  pieces,  using  two  parts  chicken  and  two  parts  celery. 
Mix  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Make  the 
following  dressing:  Yolks  of  six  eggs  or  three  whole  eggs, 
one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one-half  large  teacup  good  cider 
vinegar  poured  over  and  beaten  into  two  tablespoons  thick 
cream.  Cook  in  double  boiler  till  it  thickens,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Just  before  removing  from  fire  stir  in  one-half  tea- 
spoon cayenne  pepper  and  mustard,  each,  one  full  teaspoon 
salt  and  sugar  each.  Cool,  and  pour  over  the  meat  mixture 
half  hour  before  using.  A  cup  of  walnut  kernels  or  any  kind  of 
nuts,  add  to  the  salad. — Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Cynthiana, 
Kentucky. 


330  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CHICKEN   SALAD. 

After  the  chicken  has  been  cooked  very  tender,  for  one 
chicken  add  one  small  head  of  cabbage  chopped  very  fine,  also 
one  bunch  of  celery,  and  one  small  onion  minced,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  celery  salt;  celery  seed  may  also  be  added. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  with  any  kind  of  salad  dressing 
desired. — Mrs.  R.  S.  Teeple,  Holbrook,  Ariz. 

CHICKEN   SALAD. 

Two  cups  cut  chicken,  one  and  one-half  cups  cut  celery, 
three-fourths  cup  English  walnuts,  one-half  cup  of  jellied 
chicken  broth,  one-half  cup  heavy — before  the  whipped  cream 
is  added — mayonnaise  dressing,  one-fourth  cup  cooked  fresh 
peas.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  put  on  ice  until 
needed.  Serve  individually  on  small  plates,  garnish  with  let- 
tuce, radish,  sliced  hard  boiled  e~~  olive  or  anything  appro- 
priate or  pretty.  Over  the  salad  put  the  light  mayonnaise 
dressing,  whipped  cream,  and  little  chopped  parsley,  or  chop- 
ped water  cress  sprinkled  over  dressing. — Miss  Charlotte 
Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

CHICKEN   SALAD. 

Take  the  meat  of  one  cold  boiled  chicken,  one  bunch  of 
celery,  the  whites  of  six  hard  boiled  eggs.  Chop  all  moder- 
ately fine,  mash  the  yolks,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  a  half  cup 
of  vinegar.  Mix  well  together. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Gibson  (Santa 
Fe  System),  Winslow,  Ariz. 

CHICKEN   SALAD. 

Two  chickens.  Boil  until  well  done.  When  cold  cut  flesh 
into  small  bits.  Take  one-third  the  amount  of  celery  and  cut 
fine.  Dressing :  Yolks  of  six  eggs,  four  tablespoons  sugar, 
two  teaspoons  mustard,  one  pinch  red  pepper,  salt,  four  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  one  cup  vinegar.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
until  it  thickens.  When  cold  add  one  pint  whipped  cream. 
Pour  over  chicken  and  celery  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. — 
Mrs.  A.  F.  Johnson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

One  chicken  cut  coarse,  with  scissors.  Same  quantity  of 
celery  or  cabbage,  as  chicken,  six  hard  boiled  eggs;  cream 
the  yolks,  chop  the  whites,  one  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, one  small  cup  sour  cream,  one  dessertspoon  celery  seed, 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  331 

yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  dessertspoon  mustard,  one  tablespoon 
sugar,  salt  to  taste.  Boil  vinegar,  -mustard,  raw  eggs,  cream, 
butter  and  salt.  "When  cold  pour  over  chicken  and  mix. — 
Mrs.  McDonald  Robinson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHICKEN   SALAD. 

To  one  chicken  use  the  same  quantity  of  celery,  three  or 
four  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  mixed  mustard,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one  'tablespoon  butter,  two-thirds  teacup  vinegar,  four 
tablespoons  table  oil,  two-third  cup  sweet  cream.  Process  of 
making :  Season  your  chicken  in  cooking,  cut  by  hand  both 
chicken  and  celery,  then  beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  whites 
separately;  into  that  beat  the  oil  slowly,  then  mix  all  ingredi- 
ents in  an  earthen  dish,  except  the  cream.  Set  on  the  stove, 
cook  until  as  thick  as  pound  cake.  When  cold  add  cream, 
stirring  well.  Pour  over  chicken  and  celery  an  hour  before 
serving.  Do  not  be  afraid  of  cooking  too  thick. — Mrs.  George 
Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

COLD   SLAW. 

Shred  cabbage,  whip  one  cup  cream,  add  three  tablespoons 
vinegar,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  stir  briskly  and  pour 
over  cabbage. — Mrs.  Amos  Adams,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHRISTMAS  SALAD. 

Remove  Malaga  grapes  from  stems.  Wipe  each  grape  sepa- 
rately and  take  out  seeds.  Make  a  cut  in  each  grape  beginning 
at  stem  end  and  extending  the  entire  length.  Insert  in  cut  a 
narrow  strip  of  canned  pimento.  Pare  two  seedless  oranges 
and  at  the  same  time  remove  the  white  portion  from  the  fruit ; 
then  separate  the  fruit  into  sections,  discarding  the  tough  por- 
tion. Arrange  crisp  lettuce-leaves  on  a  shallow  salad-dish  in 
the  form  of  nests  and  fill  each  with  grapes ;  between  nests 
arrange  the  sections  of  orange.  Pour  over  French  dressing 
made  as  follows :  Mix  one-fourth  teaspoonful  each  salt  and 
powdered  sugar,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  paprika,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  olive  oil  and  one  tablespoonful  each  vinegar  and 
lemon  juice.  Stir  until  well  blended. 

A    PRETTY    CHRISTMAS    SALAD. 

A  pretty  Christmas  salad  has  celery  and  cream  cheese  for  its 
foundation.  Mash  a  ten-cent  cream  cheese  and  work  with  a 
fork  until  smooth.  Mix  with  one-half  cupful  finely  chopped 
celery  and  salt  to  season,  and  make  into  little  balls.  Put  a 


332  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

half  English  walnut  meat  on  each  side  of  every  ball,  arrange 
them  on  leaves  of  lettuce  in  the  shape  of  a  star,  pour  over 
all  a  French  dressing  and  sprinkle  with  paprika. — E.  P.  T., 
Palisade,  N.  J. 

CORN.  SALAD. 

Eighteen  ears  of  corn  cut  off  the  cob,  four  large  onions,  one 
large  green  pepper,  one  red  pepper,  one  large  cabbage,  two 
quarts  vinegar,  two  cups  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  salt,  two  table- 
spoons mixed  mustard,  one  teaspoon  turmeric,  one  cup  sifted 
flour,  one  cup  water.  Chop  and  cook  the  onions,  and  cabbage, 
boiling  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  corn,  sugar,  salt,  mustard, 
turmeric,  flour  and  water.  Stir  until  there  are  no  lumps,  add 
vinegar  and  other  ingredients.  Cook  all  together  half  an 
hour.  Then  seal.  Use  when  needed.  Serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 
Garnish  with  radishes. — Mrs.  J.  Selman,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CUCUMBER  BOATS. 

Do  not  peel,  but  cut  in  halves  the  long  way  cucumbers 
about  four  inches  long,  scoop  out  center  in  balls  with  round 
potato  scoop.  Place  in  the  halves  round  side  up,  put  on  a 
lettuce  leaf  and  serve  with  French  dressing. — Manistee  Public 
School,  Manistee,  Mich. 

A  COMBINATION  SALAD. 

Cucumbers  are  served  in  various  ways,  made  into  boats, 
stuffed  and  in  cream  soups,  but  one  of  the  most  nutritious  ways 
of  serving  them  is  in  a  salad  with  crisp  lettuce,  young  onions 
and  radishes.  In  one  family  this  salad  is  often  the  chief  dish 
at  luncheon.  It  is  made  in  a  large  salad  bowl,  in  which  the 
crisp  lettuce  leaves  are  tossed  with  slices  of  ice-cold  cucumber, 
young  onions  and  radishes,  and  then  mixed  with  a  generous 
amount  of  dressing  made  of  olive  oil,  lemon  juice,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  dash  of  sugar.  Use  about  -a  quarter  as  much  lemon 
juice  as  olive  oil.  Thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  cocoa  and  a 
plain  cake,  served  with  the  salad,  make  an  excellent  lunch  for 
midday  or  afternoon  refreshment. — Contributed. 

DELICATE    SALAD. 

Cut  celery  (with  scissors)  into  small  pieces,  cut  canned, 
sliced  or  fresh  pineapple  into  neat  pieces.  Pour  boiling  water 
over  meats  of  filbert  nuts  and  remove  skin.  Leave  nuts  whole. 
Take  fresh  pears,  halve  them,  scoop  out  center  forming  cases. 
Mix  mayonnaise  dressing  with  other  articles,  fill  pears,  place 
on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with  cooked  beets  cut  heart  shape. 
—Mrs.  C.  F.  Philbrook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 


WIUJAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  333 

STUFFED  EGG  SALAD. 

Six  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  lengthwise  in  halves,  remove  the 
yolks — mash  them;  add  half  saltspoon  salt,  pinch  of  black 
pepper,  two  tablespoons  sweet  cream,  two  tablespoons  heavy 
mayonnaise.  Mix  well  and  fill  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Serve 
on  individual  plates  with  two  halves  on  piece  of  lettuce,  with 
the  light  mayonnaise  poured  over  the  stuffed  eggs.  Garnish 
with  fancy  cut  pickled  red  beets,  or  with  one  red  radish  on  top 
of  each,  and  about  three  pimolas  around  on  the  lettuce.  De- 
licious for  luncheon. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford, 
Conn. 

FANCY   SALAD. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  six  mellow  sour  apples.  Take  six 
oranges  and  separate  the  pulp  from  the  inner  skin.  Blanch 
half  pound  of  almonds  and  chop  same  very  fine,  and  cut  some 
dice  from  candied  or  fresh  pineapples.  Mix  these  ingredients 
and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dress- 
ing, added  just  before  serving.  Garnish  with  English  walnut 
meats  in  halves  and  candied  cherries. — Manistee  Public  School, 
Manistee,  Mich. 

FISH   AND  ROTATO   SALAD. 

The  leftovers  of  fish  from  dinner,  when  mixed  with  cold 
boiled  potatoes,  make  an  excellent  salad.  Chop  the  potatoes 
and  flake  the  fish,  using  a  little  more  fish  than  potatoes.  Make 
a  dressing  of  four  tablespoons  olive  oil,  one  saltspoon  of  salt, 
one  of  pepper,  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one  tablespoon  chop- 
ped onion,  and  mix  it  with  the  fish  and  potato.  Garnish  with 
parsley  and  serve  cold.  Serve  in  bell  peppers  halved. — Con- 
tributed. 

FRENCH  SALAD. 

One  pineapple,  four  bananas,  four  small  sweet  oranges,  peel 
and  cut  into  thin  slices  the  oranges,  pineapple  and  bananas. 
Arrange  the  fruit  in  layers,  bananas  first,  then  the  oranges, 
then  pineapples  and  oranges  left,  in  the  same  order.  Sprinkle 
over  these  the  meat  of  any  favorite  nut.  Serve  with  French 
dressing. — Mrs.  E.  ].  Gibson  (Santa  Fe  System),  Winslow, 
Ariz. 

FRUIT    SALAD. 

Mix  equal  parts  of  orange  (diced),  banana,  pineapple  and 
white  grapes  peeled.  Serve  in  lettuce  cups  with  cooked  may- 
onnaise dressing  made  quite  sweet.  Cherries  on  top. — Mrs. 
Geo.  Barney,  \Yilliams,  Ariz. 


334  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

FRUIT    SALAD. 

A  piece  of  banana  sliced  large  or  small,  some  ice  cream 
(more  or  less),  some  pineapple  (canned  or  fresh). — Miss 
Behringer,  Adrian,  Mich. 

FRUIT  AND   NUT  SALAD. 

Mix  one  cup  each  of  freshly  cut  apples  (diced)  and  celery, 
one  small  bell  pepper  cut  very  fine.  Dress  with  cooked  may- 
onnaise dressing,  flavor  with  lemon  juice.  Serve  on  bed  of 
lettuce  leaves  on  a  platter  garnished  with  a  red  apple  cut  in 
thin  crescent-shaped  pieces.  Sprinkle  over  tops  with  ground 
pecan  nuts.  Serve  in  orange  shells. — Mrs.  George  Barney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  AND   CHERRY   SALAD. 

Cut  the  fruit  through  the  center,  and  take  out  the  sections, 
freeing  them  from  the  white  skins ;  let  them  stand  a  few  min- 
utes in  French  dressing.  Place  lettuce  leaves  on  your  salad 
plates,  using  only  the  white  ones,  on  these  rest  the  pieces  of 
grape  fruit  together  with  maraschino  cherries,  enough  to  give 
a  good  appearance  to  the  salad.  Or  serve  in  grapefruit  shells. 
— Manistee  Public  School,  Manistee,  Mich. 

HERRING  SALAD. 

Soak  salt  herring  over  night;  remove  the  milch  and  mash 
fine ;  remove  head,  skin  and  bones ;  chop  the  herring ;  add  chop- 
ped apples,  pickles,  potatoes,  olives  and  capers.  Put  in  the 
salad  bowl ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs  to  the 
mashed  milch,  mustard,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar  mixed  with  one- 
fourth  cup  vinegar  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  .the  sauce  over  the  salad  and  garnish  with  olives  and 
sliced  lemon. — Anna  Peterson,  Duluth,  Minn. 

LETTUCE    WILTED. 

Cut  bacon  or  ham  into  small  dice  and  fry  crisp,  pour  one  cup 
of  vinegar  in  this,  then  pour  hot  over  lettuce  which  has  been 
cut  fine.  Add  onion  if  desired. — Mrs.  Win.  Kay,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

LOBSTER   SALAD. 

One  can  lobster  cut  in  small  pieces,  six  medium  sized  cold 
boiled  potatoes  cut  in  dice,  six  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced,  eight 
olives  cut  in  small  pieces,  three  small  pickles  sliced,  one-half 
pound  walnut  meats,  one  onion,  grated;  put  all  in  a  dish  and 
pour  over  a  salad  dressing  made  as  follows :  Two  cups  vine  • 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  335 

gar  put  on  stove  to  boil,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  large 
teaspoons  mustard,  two  of  flour;  stir  these  together  dry,  then 
break  in  one  egg  and  melted  butter  size  of  egg,  salt  to  taste 
and  stir  slowly  into  vinegar;  when  done  let  stand  until  cold 
then  thin  with  sweet  cream  or  milk  and  pour  over  ingredients. 
—Mrs.  J.  H.  Henskey,  Mulliken,  Mich. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD. 

Use  the  asparagus  tips  canned,  drain  and  chill.  These  may 
be  laid  on  a  platter  of  scraped  ice,  and  the  mayonnaise  poured 
over  them  or  cut  peppers  lengthwise  and  serve  the  salad  in 
them. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

First  boil  the  lobster.  Then  pick  it  out  and  serve  with 
lettuce,  a  few  sprigs  of  watercress  and  a  little  English  mustard. 
Make  a  French  dressing  of  equal  parts  of  olive  oil  and  vine- 
gar, and  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper.  Lobster  served  in  this 
way  is  far  more  digestible  than  with  mayonnaise  sauce. 

A  LUNCHEON  SALAD. 

Apples,  celery,  English  walnut  meats  cut  in  small  pieces; 
mix  with  a  sweet  salad  dressing.  Serve  in  tomato  shells,  place 
on  lettuce  leaves  and  put  more  dressing  on  top. — Mrs..E.  H. 
Ayer,  Detroit,  Mich. 

NORMANDY  SALAD. 

One  can  French  peas,  one-half  pound  cream  cheese,  one-half 
pound  English  \valnuts.  Mix  ingredients  with  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce. — Miss  Francisco,  Williams,  Ariz. 

NORWEGIAN  SALAD. 

Cut  some  pickled  herring  into  pieces  and  mix  with  flaked 
rice,  two  peeled  apples  and  two  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  dice. 
Add  some  chopped  shallotto  and  gherkins,  sprinkle  with  finely 
minced  tarrangan  and  chervil ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover 
with  plain  salad  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. — Miss  Ma*rie 
Tjelle,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

NUT  SALAD. 

Two  cups  apples  chopped  fine,  one  cup  celery  chopped  fine, 
one-half  cup  walnuts.  Dressing  of  sour  whipped  cream.  Serve 
in  apple  shells. — Mrs.  A.  Adams,  Williams,  Ariz. 


336  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

NUTS  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 

Cut  the  celery  into  crescent-shaped  pieces  and  slice  the  wal- 
nuts, using  half  as  many  nuts  as  celery.  Add  French  dressing 
and  arrange  on  celery  leaves. — Manistee  Public  School,  Man- 
istee,  Mich. 

APPLE   AND   NUT   SALAD. 

Six  srhall  apples  chopped,  one  cup  nuts  chopped,  mix  thor- 
oughly and  serve  with  whipped  cream  in  apple  shells. — Mrs. 
C.  A.  Lindstrom,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ORANGE  AND  DATE  SALAD. 

Remove  the  pulp  and  inner  skins  from  six  oranges  and  one 
grape  fruit,  and  break  the  flesh  into  small  portions,  mix  with 
one  pound  of  dates,  stoned  and  cut  into  bits,  and  a  small  quan- 
tity of  figs.  Three  apples  cut  fine,  pecan  nuts  cut  fine.  Serve  on 
blanched  lettuce  leaves  in  orange  shells  with  the  following 
dressing :  To  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  light  add  one-half 
cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  one  cupful  of  orange  juice,  light- 
ened by  a  dash  of  lemon  and  grape  juice. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Gray, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

PEPPER- GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Remove  the  top  and  the  seeds  of  the  green  peppers  and  fill 
them  with  a  mixture  of  the  pulp  of  the  grape  fruit,  some  finely 
chopped  celery  and  chopped  English  walnuts  mixed  with  may- 
onnaise dressing. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

OLIVE  AND  POTATO  SALAD. 

Cut  up  two  medium-sized  cold  boiled  potatoes,  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  and  six  large  olives.  Mix  these  and  pour  over 
them  two  tablespoonfuls  of  French  dressing.  Set  on  the  ice 
for  two  hours,  and  mix  with  mayonnaise  just  before  serving  on 
lettuce. 

PEPPER  AND  GRAPEFRUIT  SALAD. 

Cut  slices  from  the  stem  ends  of  three  green  and  three  red 
peppers.  Remove  the  seeds  and  refill  the  shells  with  the  pulp 
of  grapefruit  finely  cut,  chopped  celery  hearts  and  broken  Eng- 
lish walnut  meats  in  the  proportion  of  twice  as  much  grapefruit 
as  celery  and  two  nut  meats  to  each  pepper.  Arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves  in  pepper  cups  with  mayonnaise. 

PEACH   SALAD. 

Serve  halved  peeled  peaches  with  whipped  cream  flavored 
with  lemon.  Ground  almonds  sprinkled  over  top. — Mrs.  Geo. 
Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY   ASSOCIATION  337 

PINEAPPLE  AND  BANANA  SALAD. 

Cut  slices  of  canned  pineapple  into  small  dice  and  drain  away 
juice.  To  one  cupful  pineapple  add  one  cupful  finely  sliced 
bananas,  and  pour  over  a  syrup  flavored  with  maraschino. 
Serve  in  lemon  cups,  which  are  made  of  large  lemons  cut  into 
halves  and  center  carefully  removed. — Manistee  Public  School, 
Manistee,  Mich. 

POINSETTA   SALAD. 

Chill  tomatoes.  With  a  sharp  pointed  knife  cut  down  one 
inch  from  below  end  of  each  section  of  tomato,  just  cutting 
through  the  skin,  and  turn  them  back  like  rose  petals.  Then 
insert  knife  again  at  end  of  tomato  and  cut  in  one-fourth  inch 
and  turn  back  each  section  of  flesh,  forming  a  second  petal ; 
with  point  of  knife  cut  out  center  of  tomato  and  fill  cavity  with 
the  following :  One  cup  finely  chopped  olives,  one  cup  finely 
chopped  walnuts,  one  cup  finely  chopped  cucumbers,  mix  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Drop  a  spoonful  mayonnaise  on  top, 
place  on  lettuce  leaves  and  serve. — Mrs.  Allen  F.  Hunt,  San 
Diego,  Calif. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Take  six  large  boiled  potatoes,  chop  fine,  chop  one  large 
onion  and  salt  to  taste,  three  hard  boiled  eggs.  Make  dressing 
of  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  little  salt,  beat  light,  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard  and  olive  oil  and  vinegar  until 
it  thickens.  Serve  in  baked  potato  shells. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  R. 
Ashurst,  Prescott,  Ariz. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Boil  as  many  potatoes  as  are  needed,  in  their  jackets,  let 
cool  and  peel,  then  cut  in  slices  or  cubes.  Dressing :  One  pint 
vinegar,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  tablespoon  flour  ,one  table- 
spoon butter,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  chopped  onion, 
and  two  eggs.  Cook  these  ingredients  together  and  pour  over 
potatoes. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Mayflower,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

POTATO    SALAD. 

Cook  four  good  sized  potatoes  with  "jackets"  on.  W'hile 
potatoes  are  cooking  prepare  the  dressing.  Melt  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  add  two  level  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  add 
one  tablespoonful  flour.  When  blended  add  one  cup  warm 
water  and  cook  well.  Mix  together  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
mustard,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  sugar  and 
yolk  of  one  egg,  add  to  cooked  mixture  with  one-fourth  cup 
vinegar.  Remove  from  fire,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil 


338  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

and  beat  thoroughly.  Cover  and  keep  hot.  Peel  and  slice  hot 
potatoes,  dust  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  over 
each  layer  as  potatoes  are  cut  into  dish  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice.  Put  dressing  on  each  layer,  cover  dish  and  set  aside  for 
several  hours,  if  possible,  before  serving.  Serve  very  cold  on 
lettuce  leaves,  with  finely  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  top. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Six  good  sized  potatoes  boiled  with  their  jackets  on.  Peel 
and  cut  into  dice,  add  one-half  cupful  grated  onion,  six  or  eight 
radishes  sliced,  one  cupful  chopped  English  walnuts.  Serve 
individually,  on  lettuce  leaf  with  an  olive.  Dressing :  Four  eggs 
thoroughly  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  mixed  mustard,  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  salt  and  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  black  pep- 
per, tiny  pinch  cayenne  pepper,  four  tablespoonfuls  good  cider 
vinegar.  Mix  and  beat  well,  cooking  in  double  boiler  until  it 
thickens  a  little.  Cool.  Add  one-half  cupful  whipped  cream 
before  serving. — Mrs.  R.  R.  Ringwalt,  Omaha,  Xebr. 

HOT  POTATO  SALAD. 

Boil  five  or  six  large  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  thin  slices 
while  they  are  hot.  Fry  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  cut  in  small 
pieces  until  there  is  a  half  cupful.  Pour  off  the  bacon  fat  from 
the  frying  pan,  except  two  tablespoonfuls,  and  into  this 
hot  fat  stir  a  teaspoon  of  floitr  in  which  a  quarter  teaspoon  of 
mustard,  an  eighth  teaspoon  pepper  and  quarter  teaspoon  of  salt 
have  been  mixed.  Stir  it  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  stir  in  a  half 
cup  of  vinegar,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  mix  with  the  hot  po- 
tatoes. Serve  while  hot. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Four  cups  minced  cold  boiled  potatoes,  one-half  cup  green 
onions,  two  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  fine.  'Dressing:  Place  one 
cup  of  vinegar  on  the  fire,  add  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  black  pepper,  one-half  cup  celery 
seed  ground.  \Yhile  vinegar  is  coming  to  a  boil,  add  three 
well  beaten  eggs.  Remove  and  stir  until  smooth.  Set  aside 
until  ready  to  serve. — William  Mann,  Stanford  University, 
California. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  neat  pieces,  slice  cucumbers 
lengthwise,  remove  seeds  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Secure  all 
the  green  things  obtainable,  such  as  parsley,  celery,  chili,  olives, 
onion,  etc..  in  small  quantities  and  grind  in  meat  grinder. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  339 

Squeeze  out  juice  and  add  to  salad  with  plenty  of  mayonnaise 
dressing. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Philbrook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Boil  six  large  potatoes  with  skins  on,  peel  before  quite  cool, 
slice  thick,  and  mix  well  with  one  good  sized  onion  sliced. 
Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Dressing  for  same :  Beat  two 
eggs,  add  two  tablespoons  butter,  three  tablespoons  vinegar 
(strong),  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard: 
cook  slowly  in  double  boiler,  stirring  often.  Pour  over  pota- 
toes, mixing  well  together.  Just  before  serving  stir  in  otte- 
half  cup  sour  cream  and  slice  one  hard  boiled  egg  over  the  top. 
—Mrs.  Bruner,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  very  thin,  and  mix 'with  chopped 
celery  and  onion;  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt.  Then 
rub  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  good  olive  oil,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar ;  sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley  or  ground  salted  almonds  and  serve  in  green 
pepper  shells.  Garnish  with  radishes. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

GERMAN  POTATO  SALAD. 

One  quart  of  boiled  potatoes  sliced,  three  tablespoons  of 
onions  sliced  fine,  one-third  cup  vinegar,  one-third  cup  of  hot 
water.  Parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fry  a  few  slices  of 
bacon  cut  in  small  cubes  crusp,  mix  a  little  flour  ,add  vinegar 
and  water,  mix  thoroughly  and  serve — Mrs.  Wm.  Hayward, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

A  QUICK  SALAD. 

Chop  fine  one  hard  boiled  egg,  one-fourth  pound  cheese, 
pinch  of  salt,  a  dash  of  paprika,  juice  of  one-half  lemon,  two 
tablespoons  of  thick  cream ;  pour  over  two  cups  of  shredded 
cabbage,  stir  good  and  serve. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Schlee,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

Two  cans  salmon,  three  large  onions  chopped  fine,  put  in  the 
salmon  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  three  hard  boiled  eggs 
mixed  into  salmon.  Beat  up  one  egg  and  put  two  tablespoons' 
cold  water  in  it,  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  teaspoon  sugar.  Stir 
it  into  a  cup  of  boiling  vinegar,  then  pour  over  the  salmon.  It's 
fine  and  dandy.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. — Mrs.  Rea  Stockton, 
Somerville,  Tex. 


340  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

A   SIMPLE  SALAD. 

Combine  walnut  meats  with  an  equal  quantity  of  crisp  white 
celery  or  tart  apples  pared,  cored  and  cut  in  cubes.  Cover  with 
French  dressing  or  mayonnaise,  and  serve  in  apple  cups  or  on 
lettuce  leaves.  Walnuts  are  also  excellent  combined  with  cream 
cheese,  tomatoes,  oranges  or  grape  fruit. 

A  SALMON  SALAD. 

Garnish  salmon  with  cucumbers,  tomatoes  and  lettuce ;  sprin- 
kle with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika;  add  a  few  drops  of  chili 
vinegar,  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg.  Cover  with  this  sauce: 
Yolks  of  three  eggs,  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt  and  red  pepper,  a 
pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  half 
a  cupful  of  water.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  thick. 

SARDINE   SALAD. 

Remove  skins  and  bones  of  the  sardines,  cut  into  cubes  and 
arrange  on  a  platter  with  some  minced  olives,  have  around  it  a 
border  of  tomato  jelly  made  by  adding  melted  gelatine  to  a 
pint  of  tomato  pulp,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  and  spices 
to  taste.  Garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  cover  with  may- 
onnaise dressing  (Tested). — Mrs.  W.  D.  Finney,  \Yilliams, 
Ariz. 

SHRIMPS  IN  TOMATO  CASES. 

One  and  one-half  cups  shrimps  cut  in  small  pieces,  six  to- 
matoes, two  tablespoons  butter,  two  slices  onion,  one  cup  bread 
crumbs,  one-fourth  cup  cream,  salt  and  paprika  to  taste.  Re- 
move the  top  of  the  tomato  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Melt  the 
butter  in  the  frying  pan  and  fry  the  onion  slices  in  it,  then  add 
the  tomato  pulp  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Stir  into  the  mix- 
ture the  bread  crumbs  and  the  cream,  and  when  it  is  a  thick, 
smooth  paste,  add  the  shrimps  and  cook  for  two  or  three  min- 
utes. Add  the  seasoning  and  put  the  mixture  in  the  tomato 
cases,  cold.  They  may  be  served  in  the  raw  cases,  or,  if  pre- 
ferred, the  tomatoes  may  be  put  on  a  buttered  baking  dish  and 
baked  in  the  oven.  Serve  with  toasted  bread. — Contributed, 
\Yilliams,  Afi . 

RICE  AND  TOMATO  SALAD. 

Set  cold  boiled  rice  on  the  ice  until  very  cold,  scoop  out  the 
inside  of  large  ripe  tomatoes.  Make  a  mixture  of  equal  parts 
of  the  tomato  pulp  and  cold  rice  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  grated 
parmerican  cheese,  mix  thoroughly,  season  with  salt  and  pap- 
rika and  fill  the  scooped  tomatoes  with  the  mixture.  Set  on 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  341 

the  ice  for  an  hour,  then  serve  with  a  great  spoonful  of  mayon- 
naise poured  on  tops  and  over  each  tomato. — Mrs.  E.  F.  Metlar, 
San  Francisco,  Calif. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

Peel  and  slice  twelve  nice,  sound,  fresh  tomatoes.  Set  them 
in  the  refrigerator  while  you  make  the  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Take  a  head  of  broad-leaved  variety  of  lettuce,  wash  and  ar- 
range the  leaves  neatly  around  the  sides  of  a  salad  bowl.  Place 
the  cold  sliced  tomatoes  in  the  center.  Pour  over  any  good 
dressing  and  serve. — Contributed. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

Select  very  ripe,  moderate  sized  tomatoes;  remove  the  skins 
and  the  stem  end,  and  a  part  of  the  seeds  and  center.  Fill  this 
hollow  tomato  with  chopped  onion,  celery,  bell  pepper,  some  of 
the  removed  seeds  and  pulp;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Put  rich  mayonnaise  dressing  on  top,  with  a  Queen 
olive.  Serve  individually  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  with  salted  crackers. 
—Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD. 

One  can  tomatoes,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  pap- 
rika ;  cook  fifteen  minutes,  add  two  tablespoons  granulated  gel- 
atine dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  cold  water,  pour  into  indi- 
vidual molds.  When  cold,  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Salzman,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

GROVER  CLEVELAND'S  TOMATO   SALAD. 

Take  firm,  ripe  tomatoes  and  cut  a  slice  from  stem  end. 
Remove  the  pulp  and  mix  with  fine  chopped  celery,  onions, 
green  peppers,  apples  and  mayonnaise  dressing.  Fill  the  to- 
matoes with  the  mixture. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Purdy,  Gallup,  N.  M. 

TOMATO  AND  BANANA   SALAD. 

Slice  thin  tomatoes,  bananas  and  hard  boiled  eggs.  Cover 
with  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts. 
Serve  on  lettuce  or  nasturtium  leaves. — Manistee  Public 
School,  Manistee,  Mich. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD. 

Chop  one  cup  cabbage,  three  pickles,  three  apples,  six  boiled 
eggs,  one  large  onion.  Rub  the  yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs 
into  the  above.  Sift  over  all  one  tablespoon  flour.  Dressing : 
Boil  until  it  creams,  one  tablespoon  flour,  large  half  cup  butter, 
one  cup  milk.  Beat  well  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  sugar, 


342  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  scant  pinch  of  pepper. 
Have  ready  in  separate  boiler  half  cupful  hot  vinegar,  add 
above  mixture,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  let  cool,  then  pour  over 
vegetables  and  serve  in  tomato  or  pepper  shells. — Mrs.  Charles 
Lindstrom,  Williams,  Ariz. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD. 

Three  medium  sized  boiled  beeets,  two  large  boiled  potatoes, 
a  carrot,  two  hard  boiled  eggs  and  one  fine  head  of  lettuce. 
Cut  up  the  vegetables  in  small  pieces,  add  salt  and  pepper. 
The  head  of  lettuce  may  be  used  to  top  the  pyramid  which  the 
salad  is  made  to  form,  and  one  sliced  egg  used  to  decorate  the 
dish.  Serve  with  French  dressing. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Gibson,  Santa 
Fe  System,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

WALDORF    SALAD. 

Chop  and  mix  four  medium  sized  hard  apples,  one-half 
pound  English  walnuts,  as  much  celery  cut  up  as  apple.  Dress- 
ing for  same :  Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  pinches  cayenne  pepper  (stir  while  boiling). 
Mix  all  in  bowl  and  just  before  serving  add  one-half  cup 
whipped  cream. — Miss  Parsons,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

WALDORF    SALAD. 

Dice  apples  and  celery,  add  blanched  almonds  and  Malaga 
grapes  halved.  Mix  well  together  and  serve  with  mayonnaise 
dressing — Mrs.  L.  E.  Purdy,  Gallup,  N.  M. 

WALDORF    SALAD. 

One  cup  walnut  meats  coarsely  chopped,  one  cup  celery, 
also  one  cup  of  rather  tart  apples.  Mix  well  together,  place 
on  bed  of  lettuce  leaves,  and  cover  with  mayonnaise.  Better  not 
cut  up  apples  until  nearly  ready  to  serve,  as  they  discolor  very 
quickly. — Miss  Nanna  Morrell,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

WALXUT    SALAD. 

Use  for  this  the  best  grade  Grenoble  walnuts,  if  you  can  get 
them.  Remove  the  meats  as  \vhole  as  possible,  put  twenty-four 
of  these  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  stock,  a  slice  of  onion  and  a 
bay-leaf,  and  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  and  cool. 
Line  a  salad  bowl  with  heart  leaves  of  lettuce,  and  sprinkle 
over  them  a  half  cupful  minced  water  cress,  and  a  tablespoon ful 
chives.  Add  twelve  pickled  oysters  or  oysters  or  clams  par- 
boiled and  marinated  with  oil  and  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  and 
on  top  of  all  put  the  walnuts.  Cover  with  French  dressing, 
chili  and  serve.  Delicious. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  343 

CABBAGE  WALNUT  SALAD. 

Chop  or  cut  one  small  head  cabbage  and  one  head  of  celery. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  piece  of  butter.  Cover  with  some 
good  salad  dressing,  and  just  before  serving  mix  in  some  chop- 
ped walnuts. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Mayflower,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 


344  THE  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  345 


346  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WIUJAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  347 


348  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  349 


SALAD  DRESSING 


"My  salad  days  when  I  was  green  in  Judgment." 
SALAD  DRESSING. 

Take  four  tablespoon fuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one  tablesponful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonfui  of  mustard,  a 
little  cayenne  pepper,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of 
vinegar,  three  eggs.  Melt  butter,  stir  flour,  salt,  sugar,  etc., 
together.  Beat  eggs  in  milk,  cook  over  steam,  beat  vinegar  in 
after  removing  from  fire. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Mathews,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

MY  FAVORITE  SALAD  DRESSING. 

One  teaspoon  mustard,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  flour.  Stir  smooth  with  a  little  milk;  beat 
into  this  two  eggs,  then  add  two  tablespoons  oil,  five  tabelspoons 
milk,  six  tablespoons  vinegar,  stirring  all  thoroughly  together. 
Heat  in  double  boiler  until  like  cream. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Dennis, 
San  Jose,  Calif.  . 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one 
teaspoonfui  salt,  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  one  teaspoonfui 
mustard  (dry),  one  small  cup  vinegar.  Mix  all  together,  cook 
until  thick,  set  away  to  cool,  then  add  cream  to  thin.  Dressing 
will  keep  from  three  weeks  to  a  month  if  kept  in  a  cool  place. 
— Mrs.  F.  Machleb,  Anaheim,  Calif. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one-half  cup  vinegar, 
one-fourth  teaspoonfui  ginger,  one-fourth  teaspoonfui  pepper, 
one-fourth  teaspoonfui  salt,  butter  size  small  walnut.  Beat  the 
eggs,  add  other  ingredients  except  butter,  put  in  the  boiler  and 
cook  until  it  becomes  light,  stirring  all  the  time  with  egg  whip. 
Add  butter  just  before  removing  from  stove. — Mrs.  P.  A.  Me- 
lick,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Two  whole  eggs  beaten  light,  one  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup 
rich  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  dry  mustard, 
little  pepper,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Put  all  in  granite  or  earthen 
bowl  over  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  thick. — Mrs.  G.  W. 
Glowner,  Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  851 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mix  together  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  heap- 
ing tablesponful  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  mustard 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add  to  this  mixture  after  it  is  well 
blended :  One  well  beaten  egg,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  and  one- 
half  cup  water.  Pour  the  whole  into  a  double  boiler  and  let 
cook  until  it 'thickens,  stirring  constantly.  When  cold  seal  up 
for  use.  If  too  thick  when  used,  thin  with  sweet  cream. — Mr.s. 
J.  Caufiman,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Take  a  lump  of  butter  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  melt  it  and 
add  one  tablespoon  flour.  Cook  this,  but  do  not  browi~L  Then 
add  one  cup  water,  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  acid  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  and  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  vinegar. — Mrs.  G.  A.  Haslett,  Winslow,  Ariz. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Dissolve  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  mustard  in  one  tablespoon 
vinegar,  add  five  tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  beat  thoroughly  and  put  with  vinegar,  boil,  stirring 
constantly  until  thickens.  Cool  and  thin  with  two  tablespoons 
of  sweet  cream.  Good  for  for  fruits  and  string  beans. — Mrs. 
Lloyd,  Sedro  Wooley,  Wrash. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  butter  melted  in  double  boiler.  Add 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth.  Add  two-thirds 
cup  milk.  Heat  until  it  thickens.  Have  ready :  Three  beaten 
eggs-  to  which  has  been  added :  one  tablespoonful  mustard,  one 
tablespoonful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  two-thirds  cup 
vinegar,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Let  boil  until  thick  like  cus- 
tard— about  two  minutes — stirring  constantly. — Mrs.  Don 
Reed,  Harper,  Kans. 

CHEESE   SALAD   DRESSING. 

Two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  one 
tablespoon  flour,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  hot  vinegar,  one- 
half  cup  grated  stale  cheese.  Beat  the  eggs.  Mix  the  dry 
ingredients  with  the  beaten  egg,  stirring  them  in  gradually  to 
prevent  lumping,  add  the  milk  and  stir,  then  add  the  hot 
vinegar  and  put  in  double  boiler  and  boil  until  it  begins  to 
thicken.  Add  the  cheese  and  let  it  boil  until  the  cheese  is 
melted. 


352  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

SIMPLE    SALAD    DRESSING. 

One  tablespoonful  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  dash  of  red  pepper,  flavor  with  celery  salt.  Stir 
all  together  well,  add  to  this  mixture  one  beaten  egg,  four 
tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  water.  Boil  a  min- 
ute or  two  and  stir  constantly  until  it  becomes  a  paste,  then 
add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  cream  or  olive  oil  enough 
to  thin  it  to  a  proper  consistency.  A  little  mustard  may  be 
added. — Mrs.  J.  O.  Dodge,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

SALAD  DRESSING  FOR  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  three  round  tablespoons  sugar, 
six  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  level  teaspoon  salt,  cook  until 
thick  and  just  before  using  add  an  equal  amount  of  whipped 
cream. — Vincent,  Manistee,  Mich. 

SALAD    DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  teaspoon  prepared  mustard,  small  tea- 
spoon salt,  four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  six  tablespoons 
vinegar.  Cook  on  slow  fire  and  stir  constantly.  Beat  the 
white  of  the  eggs  and  add  to  rest  of  the  dressing.  Cream  may 
be  added  when  cold  if  desired,  but  it  is  not  necessary. — ]\Iiss 
Behringer,  Adrian,  Mich. 

SALAD    DRESSING. 

Put  in  double  boiler,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  vine- 
gar, one-half  saltspoon  white  pepper,  one-half  saltspoon  dry 
mustard,  one  saltspoon  salt.  Stir  constantly,  adding  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  When  sufficiently  thick  remove 
from  fire.  When  cold  and  just  before  serving  add  one  cup 
thick  sweet  cream. — Miss  Marie  Poison,  Williams,  Ariz. 

4          SALAD    DRESSING. 

One  tablespoon  sugar,  one-third  tablespoon  dry  mustard, 
one  tablespoon  flour,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  vinegar. 
Let  this  come  to  a  boil ;  add  salt  to  taste  and  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg.  When  cool  and  before  serving,  add  about  one  cup 
whipped  creani.  If  cream  cannot  be  had,  use  the  whites  of  two 
well  beaten  eggs. — Miss  Deletta  Buggeln,  Williams.  Ariz. 

SALAD    DRESSING. 

One  cup  cream,  two  eggs  (yolks  only),  one  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, four  teaspoons  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Red  pepper 
and  vinegar  to  taste. — Mrs.  T.  A.  Riordan,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  353 

SALAD    DRESSING. 

To  every  yolk  of  raw  egg  add  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar, 
beat  thoroughly,  place  on  the  stove  and  stir  constantly,  cook- 
ing until  thick  enough  to  drop  heavily  from  the  spoon.  Take 
from  the  stove,  and  to  every  four  yolks  you  have  used,  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  After  adding  butter  if%there  are  any 
lumps  in  it,  place  on  the  stove  just  a  moment  and  stir.  Have 
ready  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  season  to  taste  with  this,  and  when 
ready  to  use  the  dressing,  have  a  little  well  whipped  cream  10 
thin  the  dressing  to  the  desired  consistency. — Mrs.  Edward 
Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 

BOILED    SALAD    DRESSING. 

One-half  teaspoon  mustard,  qne  teaspoon  powdered  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  yolk  one  egg,  pinch  cayenne,  three- 
fourths  cup  milk,  two  teaspoons  flour,  two  teaspoons 
melted  butter,  one-fourth  cup  of  hot  vinegar.  Method :  Mix 
the  dry  ingredients,  and  stir  into  them  the  yolk  of  egg,  butter 
and  milk,  stir  over  hot  water  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  stir 
in  the  vinegar.  When  as  thick  as  heavy  cream  strain  and  cool. 
— Miss  Elva  Burns,  Cliffs,  Ariz. 

BOILED  DRESSING. 

Beat  yolks  of  four  eggs,  add  one  cup  vinegar.  In  another 
bowl  mix  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-third 
cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  mustard  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper 
(sweet  red  pepper  is  best).  When  well  mixed  stir  in  one-half 
cup  water  and  combine  with  egg  mixture,  strain,  add  lump  of 
butter  (about  one  tablespoon)  and  cook  over  hot  water  until 
thick  and  smooth. — Mrs.  McD.  Robinson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

COOKED  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Two  tablespoons  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  (scant) 
cup  sugar,  dash  red  pepper,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one-half 
cup  water,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  vinegar,  one-fourth  cup 
butter.  Mix  first  five  ingredients  well,  add  water  and  stir 
again.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  vinegar  and  combine  with  first 
mixture.  Strain,  add  butter  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick.  This  will  keep  for  weeks.  Use  sweet  red  pepper  if  pos- 
sible in  which  case  almost  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon  can  be 
used. — Mrs.  Scott  Mitchell,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

CREAM    SALAD    DRESSING. 

Into  one  cup  of  real  thick  sour  cream  beat  the  yolks  of  two 


354  THE  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 

eggs,  warm  one  cup  of  vinegar  and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
then  pour  in  the  eggs  and  cream  and  cook  until  thick  as  de- 
sired.— Mrs.  R.  S.  Teeple,  Holbrook,  Ariz. 

CREAM    SALAD    DRESSING. 

Heat  one-half  cup  vinegar  in  double  boiler,  mix  two  level 
teaspoons  mustard  and  salt,  three  level  teaspoons  sugar,  and 
one-fourth  teaspoon  white  pepper,  add  four  eggs,  beat  .till 
light,  add  one  cup  thick  cream,  the  hot  vinegar,  turn  back  into 
boiler  and  cook  till  thick  and  smooth. — Mrs.  Victor  Melick, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

One  spoonful  of  salt,  the  same  of  mustard  and  sugar,  a 
dash  of  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil.  Mix  well  together, 
adding  the  oil  last.  Stir  smooth,  add  two  more  spoonfuls  of 
oil,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Red  pepper  may  be 
used  instead  of  black  pepper. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Gibson  (Santa 
Fe  System),  Winslow,  Ariz. 

DRESSING   FOR   TOMATO    SALAD. 

A  little  mayonnaise,  chopped  green  pepper,  chopped  pickled 
English  walnuts,  a  pinch  of  English  mustard.  Salt.  Mix 
well  together. 

DRESSING  FOR  LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Take  a  small  piece  of  Maguipart  cheese,  crush  it  in  a  bowl. 
put  in  paprika,  pepepr,  salt  and  vinegar,  work  it  until  smooth, 
put  in  a  lump  of  butter,  pour  in  olive  oil,  and  mix  well  together. 

DRESSING  FOR  COLD  FISH  OR  CRAB  SALAD. 

Mayonnaise,  a  little  English  mustard  and  currace  gander, 
add  a  little  salt,  and  a  little  cream  and  mix  well. — S.  O.  Vale- 
gard,  Fred  Harvey  System. 

MAYONNAISE   DRESSING. 

In  order  to  make  Mayonnaise  dressing  everything  must  be 
cold,  not  necessarily  ice  cold,  but  chilled.  Put  a -whole  egg 
into  a  bowl  and  beat  very  thoroughly.  Mix  one-half  teaspoon 
each  mustard,  pepper  and  salt,  and  one  teaspoon  sugar  and  beat 
in  the  eggs,  adding  oil  and  lemon  juice  alternately  until  thick 
as  desired.  One  egg  should  take  a  cup  of  oil  and  one-half  lemon. 
This  is  better  if  made  the  day  before  using  and  set  in  a  cold 
place.  The  oil  can  be  put  in  in  three  pourings. — Mrs.  Leroy  I,. 
Gilmore,  Watson ville,  Calif, . 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  355 

Mrs.  Mary  Leffingwell,  Omes,  O.,  asks :  Can  you  tell  me 
how  to  color  mayonnaise  dressing  green?  I  know  it  can  be 
done  and,  if  the  coloring  material  is  harmless,  I  would  like  :o 
know  the  recipe. 

Answer :     Chop  parsley  leaves  fine  and  pound  them  with  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  strain  through  a  piece  of  cheese 
cloth  and  add  the  juice  to  the  mayonnaise.     Or,  you  may  use 
spinach  leaves  instead  of  parsley  if  you  prefer. 

MAYONNAISE   DRESSING. 

Three  tablespoons  butter,  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour, 
one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  coffeecup  vinegar, 
two  eggs.  Let  vinegar  come  to  a  boil ;  slowly  pour  into  it  the 
other  ingredients  well  beaten ;  stir  until  it  boils.  When  ready  to 
use  add  enough  whipped  cream  to  make  it  pour. — Mrs.  S. 
Degering,  Santa  Fe  System,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Take  one  even  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg. 
Stir  together  and  add  very  gradually  a.  teaspoonful  of  best 
olive  oil,  stirring  steadily  one  way.  It  should  form  if  properh 
stirred,  a  thick  paste  so  thick  as  to  form  a  smooth  yellow  ball. 
When  ready  to  use  thin  with  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  and  add  a 
little  sweet  cream  to  the  consistency  of  very  thick  cream.  If 
after  adding  some  of  the  oil  the  egg  should  break,  that  i?. 
become  thin,  the  addition  of  another  yolk  will  usually  restoie 
it. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Gibson  (Santa  Fe  System),  Winslow,  Ariz. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  MAYONNAISE  (by  Charles  Fellows). 

Take  yolk  of  raw  egg,  beat  in  olive  oil,  when  it  gets  like 
butter  add  some  salt,  then  more  oil,  then  little  dry  mustard, 
cayenne,  then  alternately  oil,  vinegar  and  lemon  juice. — O.  L. 
W'ilson,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

MAYONNAISE   DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  four  tablespoons  of  oil  or  melted  butter, 
four  tablespoons  white  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  tea- 
spoons sugar  and  mustard.  Put  eggs,  vinegar,  salt,  mustard, 
sugar  and  oil  or  butter  in  double  boiler.  Cook  until  it  thickens. 
Remove  from  fire  and  stir  until  cold.  Before  serving  add  one 
cup  of  sweet  cream. 


356  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Heat  one  cup  sweet  creani  to  boiling  point,  add  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  cook  until  it  thickens,  add  four  tablespoons  lemon 
juice.  Sugar,  salt  and  mustard.  Excellent  in  fruit  salads. 
—Mrs.  McD.  Robinson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MAYONNAISE   DRESSING. 

One  teacup  oilve  oil  (best),  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one 
tablespoon  vinegar.  First  put  in.  your  mixing  bowl  one-half 
teaspoon  dry  mustard,  one  teaspoon  pulverized  sugar,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  of  red  pepper,  beaten  yolk  of  one 
egg.  Mix  well.  Add  two  or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  the  olive 
oil,  beating  constantly  and  hard.  Hereafter  add  alternately 
one  teaspoon  each  lemon  juice,  olive  oil  and  vinegar  until  all 
have  been  used.  The  success  of  this  dressing  depends  upon  the 
thorough  beating,  and  not  adding  too  much  oil  at  one  time. 
Keep  on  ice.  Before  serving,  add  one-half  cup  of  whipped 
cream. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

REAL,  MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg  just  a  little,  then  add  very  slowly 
one  pint  of  oilve  oil.  Stir  or  beat  gently  for  about  one  hour. 
—Mrs.  R.  S.  Teeple,  Holbrook,  Ariz. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING    (NEVER  FAIL). 

One-half  teaspoon  each  mustard,  salt  and  powdered  sugar, 
and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  To  the  dry  ingredients  add  one 
tablespoon  each  lemon  juice  and  vinegar,  blending  thoroughly. 
Place  the  yolk  of  one  egg  in  a  small  bottomed  bowl,  and  beat 
thoroughly  with  an  egg  beater.  Add  the  seasoning  and 
beat  very  thoroughly.  It  should  thicken  up  slightly.  Have 
oilve  oil  as  cold  as  possible,  and  add  a  few  drops  at  a  time, 
continuing  the  beating.  Soon  as  it  begins  to  thicken  add  the 
oil  in  larger  quantities.  Keep  adding  oil  until  it  is  sufficiently 
heavy  to  serve.  Constant,  vigorous  beating  and  adding  oil 
slo\vly  at  first  are  the  secrets  of  success. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Phil- 
brook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

SAUCE  FOR  COLD   SLAW. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  mustard  if  desired.  When  these 
are  beaten  wrell  together  boil  and  cool ;  pour  over  slaw. — Mrs. 
Sam  Degering,  Santa  Fe  System,  Williams,  Ariz. 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  357 

HOW  TO  MAKE  MAYONNAISE  BY  LEON  KRITZ. 

Break  eight  raw  eggs  (yolks)  into  a  bowl,  some  salt  and 
pepper,  work  with  a  whip  for  a  few  seconds,  add  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  and  incorporate  slowly  one  quart  of  good 
French  or  Italian  oilve  oil,  while  stirring  constantly.  Add  one 
gill  of  vinegar  between  the  time.  Set  the  sauce  in  a  cool  place 
and  use  when  needed. — O.  L.  Wilson,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Mix  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  two 
tablespoons  vinegar,  four  tablespoons  olive  oil  added  slowly — 
Mrs.  C.  F.  Philbrook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 


358  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  359 


SANDWICHES 


The  first  requisite  in  the  preparation  of  good  sandwiches  is 
to  have  perfect  bread  in  suitable  condition.  Either  white, 
brown,  rye  or  entire  white  bread  may  be  used — but  it  should  be 
of  close,  even  texture  and  at  least,  one  day  old. 

Spread  butter  smoothly  on  bread  before  it  is  cut,  after 
cutting  remove  crusts — if  any.  When  ready  to  serve,  cut 
sandwiches  square,  triangular,  long,  narrow,  round,  crescent, 
heart,  diamond,  or  club  shaped.  Or,  any  preferred  shape. 

In  making  rolled  bread  sandwiches,  cut  off  the  crust  of  a 
loaf  of  fresh  bread  and  spread  a  thin  layer  of  butter  on  one 
end  of  the  loaf;  cut  off  this  buttered  end — in  as  thin  slice  as 
possible,  and  spread  with  your  sandwich  filling;  roll  up  this 
slice  and  lay  on  a  napkin;  draw  the  napkin  firmly  around  the 
rolled  bread,  and  pin  it.  Put  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to 
serve,  then  remove  napkin  and  tie  sandwich  with  your  color 
baby  ribbon  and  any  fancy  fastening — or  fasten  with  toothpick. 

French  rolls  are  often  used  for  picnics  or  afternoon  lunch- 
eons. Remove  from  the  top  of  each  cold  roll,  a  piece  of  the 
crust  the  size  of  a  silver  dollar  and  take  out  the  center  with  a 
spoon.  Fill  the  space  with  highly  seasoned  chopped  meat : 
fish,  lobster  or  crab,  replacing  lid,  wrap  in  tissue  paper,  and 
serve  with  pickles  or  olives. 

For  very  small,  dainty  sandwiches,  the  bread  may  be  baked 
at  home  in  one  pound  baking  powder  cans.  These  should  be 
only  half  filled,  and  then  allowed  to  rise  before  baking.  You 
then  have  a  round  slice  without  crust. 

A  garnish  such  as  the  following  may  be  used :  For  meat 
and  fish  sandwiches,  use  sour  pickles,  olives,  lettuce,  water 
cress,  parsley,  mint  or  slices  of  lemon,  and  hard  boiled  eggs. 
For  cheese  sandwiches,  use  pickles,  olives  stuffed  with  celery 
or  almonds.  For  sweet  sandwiches,  use  lettuce,  maiden  hair 
fern,  smilax,  berries,  flowers  or  candied  fruits  in  fancy  designs. 

To  keep  sandwiches  fresh,  if  prepared  an  hour  or  two  before 
serving,  wring  out  a  napkin  in  cold  water,  covering  the  tray 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  When  taking  sandwiches  on  a  picnic, 
wrap  tight  in  oil  or  wax  paper. — Eva  Greene  Fuller. 

FILLING  FOR  SANDWICHES. 

Good  sandwiches  are  made  by  using  a  filling  of  chopped 
onions  and  cucumbers,  mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Wal- 
nut meats,  chopped  and  mixed  with  neufchatel  or  cream  cheese, 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  361 

also  makes  an  excellent  filling.  Chopped  olives  and  cream  or 
cottage  cheese  is  a  good  combination,  but  should  be  served  as 
soon  as  made  or  the  olives  will  give  the  cheese  a  bitter  taste. 
Dates  and  chopped  nuts  make  a  good  combination  and  peanut 
butter  is  a  stand-by. — Contributed. 

ANCHOVY  SANDWICHES. 

One  can  boneless  anchovies,  mixed  with  three  mashed  hard 
boiled  eggs.  Add  lemon  juice  and  salt  to  taste;  mix  with 
tablespon  soft  butter.  Spread  on  unbuttered  slices  of  graham 
bread,  with  lettuce  leaf  between.  Garnish  with  olives  stuffed 
with  red  pepper. — Contributed. 

BEET  SANDWICH. 

On  thinly  buttered  slices  of  white  bread  put  chopped,  pickled 
red  beets,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Over  this  spread 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Cut  sandwich  into  cubes. — Contributed. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEAN  SANDWICH. 

Mashed  cold  baked  beans  to  which  acid  chopped  celery  with 
tomato  catsup.  Spread  between  buttered  slices  of  brown  bread. 
— Mrs.  F.  W.  Finney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CELERY  SANDWICH. 

Chopped  celery  and  English  walnuts,  moistened  with  rich 
mayonnaise  dressing,  placed  between  thin  slices  of  bread  and 
butter. — Contributed. 

CHEESE   SANDWICHES. 

Between  two  large  square  salted  crackers  put  thin  slices  of 
any  rich  American  cheese,  over  which  spread  French  mustard. 
Very  good. — Miss  Margery  Hicks,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHEESE  AND   PEPPER  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  four  green  peppers  and  mix  with  one-half  pound  of 
soft  cream  cheese.  Season  with  a  little  dry  mustard,  salt  and 
pepper.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread  and 
form  into  sandwiches. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Saunders,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHEESE  AND  SARDINE  SANDWICHES. 

Mash  equal  parts  of  boned  and  skinned  sardines,  and  any 
fresh  cream  cheese;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Place  be- 
tween slices  rye  bread.  Serve  with  a  sour  pickle.  Good  for 
picnic  luncheon.  Cut  sandwich  long  and  narrow. — Miss  De- 
letta  Buggeln,  Williams,  Ariz. 


362  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CHEESE  AND  OLIVE  SANDWICHES. 

Cream  butter,  add  an  equal  quantity  of  soft  cheese  scraped 
fine  with  a  knife  and  season  with  salt.  Add  chopped  olives 
and  a  small  red  pepper  chopped.  Spread  between  very  thin 
slices  of  bread  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Philbrook, 
Bisbee,  Ariz. 

CHICKEN  SANDWICHES. 

Mince  two  cups  boiled  chicken,  one-half  cup  chopped  celery; 
season  to  taste;  moisten  with  the  jellied  broth;  mix  well  and 
place  between  two  buttered  slices  of  milk  rising  bread.  Most 
delicious. — Miss  Dorothy  Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CLUB  HOUSE  SANDWICHES. 

Toast  thin  slices  of  bread,  butter  lightly  and  put  between 
them  thin  slices  of  hot  fried  ham.  Make  another  sandwich  by 
putting  slices  of  cold  chicken  well  seasoned  between  thin  slices 
of  plain  white  bread,  lightly  buttered.  Sandwiches  to  be  cut  in 
any  desired  shape.  Place  a  sandwich  of  each  kind — one  hot 
and  one  cold — on  a  plate  with  a  lettuce  leaf,  three  slices  of  fresh 
tomatoes,  two  olives  and  a  small  piece  of  dill  pickle.  Put  one 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise  on  side  of  each  plate. — Miss  Lava  V. 
Sughrue,  Point  Richmond,  Calif. 

COLONIAL  CLUB  SANDWICHES. 

Mash  cream  cheese  (neufchatel),  moisten  with  heavy  cream 
(canned  will  do)  season  with  salt  and  cayenne  and  add  one- 
fourth  the  quantity  of  finely  chopped  red  peppers.  You  may 
omit  the  cayenne  and  use  green  chili.  It  adds  to  the  attractive- 
ness to  tint  the  mixture  a  delicate  green.  Spread  very  thin 
slices  of  bread  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Excellent. — Mrs. 
C.  F.  Philbrook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SANDWICH. 

Between  thin  buttered  slices  of  brown  or  white  bread,  spread 
rich,  home  made  cheese.  Serve  with  a  radish  or  green  onion. — 
Mrs.  Wm.  Kay,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CUCUMBER   AND    ONION    SANDWICH. 

Spread  between  slices  of  buttered  rye  bread,  chopped  cucum- 
ber and  green  onions  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Contributed. 

DUTCH  LUNCH   SANDWICH. 

Take  two  large  salted  crackers,  placing  on  one.  two  very 
thin  slices  of  Bermuda  onions,  then  a  layer  of  minced  sardines ; 


PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  363 

over  all,  squeeze  lemon  juice;  then  put  the  other  buttered 
cracker  on  top.  Or  minced  sardines  and  chopped  onions,  with 
a  lettuce  leaf,  between  the  two  crackers. — Contributed. 

EGG  SALAD  SANDWICHES. 

For  one  sandwich  take  two  triangular  pieces  of  bread  spread 
one  with  salad  dressing,  on  it  press  one  hard  boiled  egg  cut  in 
slices,  then  four  leaves  of  lettuce,  more  salad  dressing  and  the 
other  triangular  of  bread,  press  together. — Mrs.  Geo.  Barney, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

EGG   SANDWICHES. 

Place  between  buttered  slices  of  white  bread,  a  layer  of 
sliced  hard  boiled  eggs,  sprinkled  with  pepper,  salt,  and  chop- 
ped water  cress  and  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  with  dill 
pickle.  Delicious  served  with  cokl  fried  chicken  for  picnics. — 
Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

EGG  SANDWICH. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste ;  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  a  pinch  of  salt,  cayenne  pepper, 
and  tablespoon  vinegar.  When  this  is  thoroughly  mixed,  add 
one  cup  of  grated  American  cheese,  spread  lightly  on  slices 
buttered  white  bread.  Serve  with  sour  pickle.  Delicious — 
Miss  Blanche  Parsons,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

FRIED  EGG  SANDWICH. 

Place  between  two  slices  of  thin  bread  and  butter,  on  a  leaf 
of  lettuce,  well  done  fried  eggs,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley  or  water  cress.  Serve 
with  a  red  radish.  Nice  for  a  change. — Miss  Helen  J.  Stark, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

EGG  AND   OLIVE   SANDWICH. 

Chop  fine  five  hard-boiled  eggs  and  fifteen  large  green  olives ; 
moisten  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  soft  butter:  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  lightly  but- 
tered bread.  Serve  with  an  olive. — Miss  Dorothy  Stark,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

PISH  AND  EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Spread  on  lettuce  leaf  between  two  buttered  slices  of  rye 
bread,  equal  parts  of  cold  boiled  Or  baked  fish  and  mashed  hard 
boiled  eggs,  moistened  with  rich  mayonnaise  dressing.  Gar- 
nish with  radish.  Cut  sandwich  egg-shaped. — Miss  Kathryn 
Stark,  Saginaw,  Mich.  > . ../.. 


364  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

FISH  AND  CUCUMBER  SAIiAD. 

One  cup  chopped  crisp,  fresh  cucumbers,  two  cups  chopped 
cooked  fish,  baked  or  left  from  dinner;  moisten  with  mayon- 
naise dressing,  having  plenty  lemon  juice,  and  place  between 
buttered  square  crackers  or  thin  slices  buttered  white  bread. 
—Miss  Harriette  Tafft,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FRUIT  SANDWICH. 

Place  between  two  slices  of  bread  and  buttef,  strawberry, 
currant,  peach  or  any  jam  or  preserves.  Chopped  nuts  can  be 
used  with  any  of  the  above.  Nice  for  picnic  luncheons,  where 
cake  is  hard  to  carry  on  the  back  of  a  saddle  horse. — Mrs.  Der- 
mont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

FUDGE  SANDWICH. 

Spread  long,  thin  crackers  with  melted  fudge.  Serve  with 
tart  lemonade. — Miss  Margarette  A.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Two  cups  ground  boiled  ham,  one  tablespoon  mixed  mustard, 
one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  little  red  or  white  pepper;  salt 
to  taste;  the  boiled  yolks  of  four  eggs  rub  well  together  and 
spread  between  two  buttered  slices  of  bread — white  preferred. 
Serve  with  sour  pickles. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

HOLIDAY  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  fine  one  gherkin,  six  stoned  olives  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  capers,  and  mix  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  stiff  mayon- 
naise sauce.  Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  butter  them  and  spread 
half  of  them  with  the  above  mixture  and  the  remainder  with 
cream  cheese.  Sprinkle  over  each  slice  a  pinch  of  paprika  and 
press  together.  Cut  into  fancy  shapes.  Garnish  with  parsley. 

HOT   SANDWICHES. 

One  pound  of  English  walnuts,  one  head  lettuce,  mayonnaise 
dressing,  lemon.  Chop  nuts,  add  lemon  juice,  mix  with  the 
mayonnaise  dressing,  spread  on  slice  of  bread  cut  thin,  with 
lettuce  leaf. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Irwine,  Williams,  Ariz. 

HOT  SANDWICH. 

Between  two  buttered,  toasted  slices  of  white  bread,  put  hot 
creamed  codfish.  On  top  of  sandwich  put  teaspoon  of  the 
codfish  sprinkled  with  finely  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs,  and 
garnish  with  water  cress  or  parsley  and  a  sour  pickle.  Serve 
very  hot. — Contributed. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  365 

HOT  HAM  SANDWICHES.       . 

Two  cups  chopped  boiled  ham  placed  in  sauce  pan  with  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk;  when  hot,  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  cook  only  moment  and  serve  hot  on 
slices  buttered  toast.  Garnish  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve 
with  dill  pickles. — Mrs.  Buggeln,  Williams,  Ariz. 

JAMBON    SAXDWICH. 

Put  boiled  ham  through  meat  chopper,  mix  with  very  little 
cream  or  melted  butter  till  it  is  a  paste  and  to  one-half  cupful 
put  one-fourth  teaspoon  dry  mustard.  Spread  on  squares  of 
baker's  bread  and  put  two  together  with  a  thin  slice  Swiss  or 
American  cheese.  Saute  these  before,  in  a  hot  dish  till  brown. 
— J.  W.  Baylis,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LETTUCE    SAXDWICH. 

Spread  over  lettuce  leaf  mayonnaise  dressing,  sprinkled  with 
chopped  or  grated  cheese.  Place  between  thinly  spread  white 
bread  and  butter.  Brown  bread  may  be  used. — Miss  Edna 
Buggeln,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LETTUCE    SAXDWICH. 

Between  two  buttered  slices  of  white  bread  place  one  piece 
of  lettuce  spread  with  rich  mayonnaise  dressing,  sprinkled  with 
chopped  nuts.  Good  for  quick,  light  luncheon. — Miss  Dorothy 
Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CHICKEX   LIVER    SAXDWICH. 

Chop  livers  and  little  parsley  fine;  season  to  taste.  Put  be- 
tween slices  of  white  bread  and  butter.  Chicken  or  turkey  giz- 
zards are  equally  as  good. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LOBSTER   SAXDWICH. 

Chop  the  meat  of  a  medium  sized  can  of  lobster  and  three- 
quarters  cup  of  chopped  celery ;  mix  with  little  mayonnaise 
dressing;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  place  between  two 
thin  slices  of  lightly  buttered  brown  bread.  Cut  in  diamonds. 
—Miss  DeLetta  Buggeln,  Williams,  Ariz. 

LUXCH    SAXDWICHES. 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  one-half  cup  chopepd  ham, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  India  relish,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Mix  all  together  with  one-half  cup  of  salad  dressing,  spread  on 
thin  slices  of  bread  with  a  small,  crisp  lettuce  leaf  between. 
Trim  neatly.  Awfully  good  for  picnics. — Miss  Winifred 
Waite,  Winslow,  Ariz. 


366  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

HOW   TO  MAKE  MONTREUX   SANDWICHES. 

Boil  four  eggs  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  pound  them 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  finely 
chopped  parsley,  and  sufficient  anchovy  essence  to  make  all  a 
good  pink  color.  When  well  pounded  add  a  little  paprika  and 
spread  the  mixture  on  slices  of  buttered  bread.  Serve  gar- 
nished with  parsley. 

MUSHROOM  SANDWICHES. 

Fry  in  butter  and  season,  fresh  mushrooms.  When  cool, 
mince  fine,  using  the  butter  gravy  to  moisten  mushroom.  Place 
between  two  unbuttered  slices  of  white  bread,  and  serve  with 
olives. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MUSHROOM    SANDWICHES. 

Mince  equal  parts  of  boiled  beef  tongue  and  mushrooms 
fried  in  butter  and  seasoned  to  taste.  Serve  between  well  but- 
tered slices  of  white  bread.  Cut  sandwich  round. — Miss  Doro- 
thy Stark,  Williams,  Ariz. 

NASTRURTIUM   SANDWICH. 

Put  nasturtium  flowers  and  leaves  between  slices  of  white 
bread  and  butter.  Chop  flowers  and  leaves,  season  to  taste; 
cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Rose  petals  can  be  substi- 
tuted.— Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

NUT    SANDWICH. 

Between  thinly  spread  slices  of  white  bread  and  butter  put 
chopped  walnuts  and  olives,  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs. 
P.  A.  Melick,  Williams,  Ariz. 

NUT   SANDWICHES — FILLING. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  mixed  nut  meats,  one-half  pound 
each  of  figs,  dates  and  raisins.  Remove  all  seeds,  mix  fruits 
and  nuts  well,  run  all  through  food  chopper,  using  fine  cutter ; 
pack  closely  in  cans  or  jars,  cover  closely,  and  keep  in  cool 
place.  When  wanted  dip  can  in  hot  water  and  contents  will 
slip  out  easily.  Cut  in  slices  and  place  between  thin  slices  of 
bread.  A  delicious  candy  may  be  made  by  cutting  the  nut 
fruit  mixture  into  cubes  and  dipping  them  into  melted  sweet 
chocolate. — Mrs.  R.  R.  Huntington.  Mason,  N.  M. 

NOVrEI/TY    SANDWICH. 

Chop  fine  one  small  onion,  nine  olives,  one  green  pepper,  one 
sour  pickle,  add  one  cupful  of  grated  cheese,  .a  little  salt 


WILUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  367 

and  enough  mayonnaise  or  mustard  dressing  to  form  a  paste.  . 
Spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. — Mrs.  H.  Bailey, 
Warren,  Ohio. 

OYSTER   SANDWICHES. 

Six  raw  oysters  rolled  in  seasoned 'cracker  crumbs  and  fried 
brown  in  butter.  Put  oysters  on  one  slice  of  hot  buttered  toast, 
sprinkle  with  chili  sauce  and  cover  with  another  piece  of  toast. 
Garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  pickles. — -Mrs.  John  Langow- 
sky,  Fray  Marcos,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ONION    SANDWICH. 

Bermuda  or  any  sweet  onion  preferred.  Put  thin  slices 
of  the  onion,  seasoned  with  salt,  between  two  slices  of  buttered 
bread.  Over  the  onion,  pour  melted  or  grated  cheese  and  may- 
onnaise dressing.  Cut  round.  Good  for  Sunday  night  lun- 
cheon.— Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

OLIVE    SANDWICH. 

Chop  olives  with  little  celery  and  walnuts.  Mix  with  may- 
onnaise dressing.  Place  between  two  slices  of  bread  and  butter. 
—Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PIMENTO   FILLING   FOB   SANDWICHES. 

One  small  cup  pimentos,  chop,  add  one  cupful  chopped  nut 
meats,  one-fourth  cupful  chopped  celery  and  five  leaves  of 
tender  lettuce  pulled  into  small  bits.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  and 
spread  between  the  bread. — Mrs.  Thomas  Maddock,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

PEANUT    SANDWICH. 

Between  Boston  brown  bread  and  butter  put  a  crisp  leaf  of 
lettuce  dipped  in  any  good  salad  dressing  and  sprinkled  with 
hickory  nuts  or  peanuts. — Miss  Ora  Ritter,  Williams,  Ariz. 

PEPPER   SANDWICHES. 

Put  green  peppers  and  walnut  meats  through  a  grinder,  mix 
with  salad  dressing,  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter. 
—Mrs.  E.  H.  Ayer,  Detroit,  Mich. 

BELL   PEPPER   SANDWICH. 

On  thin  slices  of  white  bread  and  butter  place  thin  slices  of 
pepper  over  which  put  catsup,  salt,  any  rich  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing, then  a  leaf  of  crisp  lettuce.  Serve  with  radish. — Con- 
tributed. 


368  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CHOPPED  PICKLE  SANDWICH. 

Between  thinly  cut  slices  of  buttered  white  bread  put  chopped 
mixed  pickle,  with  little  ground  roast  beef  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt. — Miss  Gladys  Hicks,  Williams,  Ariz. 

RAISIN  SANDWICH. 

Delicious  for  afternoon  teas,  picnics  and  children's  lunches. 
Chop  fine  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  together  with  one  of  nuts, 
preferably  walnuts,  mix  with  whipped  cream  or  the  white  of 
an  egg  beaten*  season  with  salt.  Spread  between  slices  of 
bread,  cut  very  thin. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Saunders,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SALAD    SANDWICH. 

Use  any  fruit,  meat,  or  vegetable  salad,  between  slices  of 
bread  and  butter.  Excellent.  Try  it. — Mrs.  Dermont  ,Wil- 
liams,  Ariz. 

SARDINE    SANDWICHES.  ' 

Remove  scales  and  bones  from  two  boxes  sardines  and  pound 
to  a  paste;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  Serve  be- 
tween two  tender  lettuce  leaves  on  thinly  buttered  crackers  or 
rye  bread. — Miss  Geneva  Wagner.  Williams,  Ariz. 

SARDINE    SANDWICHES. 

Open  a  small  box  of  sardines  and  let  cold  water  gently  run 
over  the  fish  to  remove  the  oil.  Take  off  the  skin,  etc..  from 
the  fish  and  chop  fine,  with  a  hard  boiled  egg  for  every  four 
fish ;  work  into  a  paste  with  one  and  one-fourth  tablespoons  of 
salad  dressing  to  every  egg  used,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread.  Anchovies  may  be  used 
instead  of  sardines. — Mrs.  Will  Turnbull,  Manistee.  Mich. 

SARDINE    SANDWICHES. 

Between  two  slices  of  nice  toast,  put  lettuce  leaf  covered  with 
little  sardines  and  mayonnaise  dressing;  cut  shamrock  shape. 
Garnish  with  olives  and  serve  with  quarter  of  lemon. — Con- 
tributed. 

SHRIMP    SANDWICHES. 

One  cup  minced  shrimp,  six  chopped  green  olives,  little  par- 
sley, moisten  with  mayonnaise,  season  to  taste.  Spread  between 
buttered  slices  of  graham  bread.  Serve  at  once  with  sour 
pickles. — Miss  Katheryn  Stark.  Williams,  Ariz. 

SPANISH   SANDWICH. 

One  cup  of  minced,  boned  and  skinned  sardines,  one  cup  of 
chopped  olives  and  bell  peppers  in  equal  proportion,  one  table- 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  369 

spoon  melted  or  soft  butter,  juice  from  one  lemon ;  season  with 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Place  between  large  salted  square 
crackers  or  bread  which  is  a  little  old. — Mrs.  Win.  F.  Dermont, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

TOMATO  SANDWICH. 

Between  thin  slices  of  white  bread  and  butter,  place  a  crisp 
piece  of  lettuce  clipped  in  mayonnaise  dressing  or  rich  cream, 
on  which  put  thin  slices  of  pared  ripe  tomatoes.  Very  nice. 

TOMATO  AND  ONION  SANDWICH. 

On  thin  slices  of  rye  bread  and  butter  put  thin  slices  of  pared 
ripe  tomatoes,  sprinkled  with  chopped  onion,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt.  This  is  good  with  mayonnaise  dressing  added. 

TOMATO   AND   NUT   SANDWICH. 

Between  two  slices  of  buttered  white  bread  put  a  thin  layer 
of  ripe  sliced  tomatoes  sprinkled  with  chopped  hickory  nuts, 
pepper  and  salt,  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  with  an 
olive. — Contributed. 

TONGUE    SANDWICHES. 

One  fresh  boiled  tongue  cut  in  shreds,  one-fourth  smoked 
tongue  cut  in  shreds,  one  can  truffles  chopped  fine,  two  pounds 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  Estrogan  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful 
French  mustard,  one-half  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper,  salt  to 
taste.  Pound  all  together  in  a  mortar  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Spread  this  mixture  thick  upon  white  bread  like  butter. — 
Mrs.  K.  W.  Williams,  Cynthiana,  Ky. 

TONGUE  AND  LEMON  SANDWICH. 

Spread  thin  bread  and  butter,  with  slices  home  cooked  beef 
tongue,  with  juice  of  lemon  squeezed  over  it. — Contributed. 

WATER    CRESS    SALAD    SANDWICH. 

Between  slices  of  buttered  graham  bread,  put  chopped  hard- 
boiled  eggs  with  little  choped  water  cress,  seasoned  with  salt 
and  melted  butter.  Over  this  squeeze  lemon  juice.  Serve  with 
olives.  Cut  sandwich  in  three-leaf  clover  shape. — Mrs.  Wm.  F. 
Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 


370  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


,  SOUPS 


"Now  good  digestion  wait  on  appetitie,  and  health  on  both." — 
Shakespeare. 

The  juice  of  meats  is  the  greatest  necessity  for  good  stock 
and  form  the  basis  of  all  meat  soups  and  of  all  principle  sauces 
and  dressings. 

Fresh  uncooked  beef,  with  the  bones  cracked,  makes  the 
best  stock. 

Mutton,  alone,  is  too  strong  in  flavor  for  good  stock,  con- 
sequently vegetables  and  herbs  seem  necessary. 

Veal,  too,  needs  something  to  help  flavor  and  season. 

Chicken  boiled  alone  makes  excellent  broth,  but  fowl  and 
game  must  have  the  assistance  of  some  other  meat,  vegetable 
or  herb. 

For  beef  stock — which  is  most  generally  used — select  a  good 
fresh  shin  bone,  having  the  bones  thoroughly  cracked.  Put  in 
a  granite  lined,  tight  covered,  soup  kettle,  with  more  than 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  it.  Simmer  slowly  for  several 
hours  in  order  that  the  essence  of  the  meat  may  be  drawn  out 
thoroughly.  Skim  off  the  scum  frequently  to  prevent  it  from 
becoming  turbid.  Should  more  water -be  needed  at  any  time 
take  from  a  boiling  tea  kettle.  When  the  meat  falls  from  the 
bones,  it  is  cooked  enough  for  ordinary  soups  and  sauces. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  strain  through  a  colander.  If  needed 
for  bouillon,  strain  through  a  damp  flannel  cloth.  Set  away  to 
cool:  When  cold  remove  all  grease  from  the  top,  and  set  away 
for  future  use. 

For  bouillon,  take  the  very  top  of  the  stock  jelly,  re-heat, 
season  and  serve  hot  in  bouillon  cups. 

For  consomme,  this  same  kind  of  stock  can  be  used,  with  the 
addition  of  vegetables  and  herbs.  When  the  vegetables  are 
thoroughly  cooked,  strain  through  a  fine  hair  sieve.  Season 
to  taste  and  serve  hot,  with  little  cooked  rice,  barley  or  ver- 
micelli. 

A  clear  soup  must  be  perfectly  transparent,  a  thickened  soup 
about  like  cream. 

BARLEY   SOUP. 

Cook  slowly  one  cup  barley  three  hours.  Have  soup  stock 
hot,  add  barley,  salt,  pepper  and  butter  just  before  serving.— 
Mrs.  Lloyd,  Sedro  Woolley,  Wash. 


372  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

ASPARAGUS   CREAM    SOUP. 

Cook  slowly  one  bundle  asparagus  in  boiling  salted  water 
for  thirty  minutes.  Take  from  water,  cut  off  tips  and  put  into 
soup  tureen.  Press  pulp  from  stalks  through  a  sieve.  Scald 
three  cups  milk,  add  one  cup  white  stock,  or  water  in  which 
asparagus  was  cooked.  Mix  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch  with  three  tablespoonfuls  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire,  adding  gradually  portion  of  scalded  milk  to  make  very 
smooth.  When  thoroughly  done,  add  remainder  of  milk  and 
asparagus  pulp.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  till 
boiling,  then  strain  into  the  tureen. 

BARLEY   SOUP. 

Cook  a  soup  bone  with  the  following  until  meat  is  tender : 
One-half  cup  barley,  one-half  can  tomatoes  and  a  few  sprigs 
parsley. — Miss  Parsons,  Saginaw.  Mich. 

CREAM   OF   BARLEY   SOUP. 

One  cup  barley  well  mashed,  three  pints  chicken  or  veal 
stock,  one  onion  and  bit  of  mace.  Cook  slowly  five  hours,  rub 
through  a  sieve,  and  add  one  and  one-half  pints  boiling  cream 
or  milk,  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten 
with  one-fourth  cup  of  cream  added  to  soup  two  minutes  before 
serving  makes  soup  much  richer. — Mrs.  R.  G.  Peters,  Man- 
istee,  Mich. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

Boil  one  can  lima  beans,  one  small  onion  and  a  teaspoon  salt 
in  cold  water  to  cover,  three  or  four  hours.  Strain ;  add  melted 
butter  size  of  walnut.  Stir  in  one  teaspoon  flour.  To  this' add 
the  bean  stock  and  one  cup  beef  stock.  Boil  eight  minutes,  add 
cup  sweet  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  with  chopped 
parsley  and  one  teaspoon  whipped  cream  in  each  plate. 

CREAM    OF    BEAN    SOUP. 

Boil  one  cupful  dry  lima  beans  six  or  eight  hours.  Mash 
and  put  through  a  sieve.  Put  one  teaspoonful  flour  and  one 
teaspoonful  butter  in  sauce  pan,  rub  smooth,  add  one  cupful 
beef  stock,  salt,  and  half  cupful  sweet  cream,  bring  to  good 
boil.  Add  the  mashed  beans,  and  serve  hot  with  a  slice  of 
lemon  in  each  plate  of  soup. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hart- 
ford, Conn. 

RED  BEAN  SOUP. 

Take  one  cupful  of  kidney  beans,  a  small  onion  and  a  stalk 
of  celery.  Add  cold  water  and  simmer  until  the  beans  are  ten- 


WILUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  373 

der,  then  strain  through  potato  press.  Add  to  the  puree  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  cupful  of  water,  two  cupfuls  of  milk 
and  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  twenty  minutes. 

BEEF  BROTH. 

Put  soup  bone  in  granite  lined  covered  kettle,  add  cold  water 
enough  to  cover.  Boil  slowly  until  meat  leaves  the  bones. 
Remove  from  fire,  strain.  When  cool  remove  fat,  cut  off  slice 
of  the  jelly,  re-heat,  season  with  salt.  Serve  hot  in  bouillon 
cups,  or  any  desired  way. — Mrs.  Grosse,  Albuquerque,  N.  M. 

BEEF  SOUP. 

Put  a  shank  of  beef  in  cold  water  sufficient  to  cover,  let 
come  to  a  boil,  skim,  set  back  and  simmer  all  day,  strain  and  let 
stand  over  night ;  skim  fat  off  the  top.  This  gives  plain  stock 
from  which  a  variety  of  soups  may  be  made,  by  adding  vege- 
tables, barley,  rice,  sago,  etc.,  and  seasoning  to  taste. — Mrs. 
J.  R.  Treat,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

GOOD  BOUILLON. 

Eight  pounds  brisket  beef  cooked  all  day.  When  cool  skim, 
strain,  heat  and  add  one  bay  leaf  and  a  little  onion,  two  cloves, 
one  pint  strained  tomatoes,  pepper,  salt  and  two  quarts  of 
chicken  stock. — Miss  Behringer,  Adrian,  Mich. 

CROUTONS. 

Cut  stale  bread  into  half-inch  cubes,  butter  and  brown  in 
oven  and  serve  with  any  soup. 

IMPERIAL    STICKS    FOR    SOUPS. 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third  inch  slices,  remove  crusts,  spread 
thinly  with  butter,  and  cut  slices  in  one-third  inch  strips ;  put  in 
pan  and  brown  in  oven. — Manistee  Public  School,  Manistee, 
Mich. 

CHICKEN  BOUILLON. 

Cut  up  chicken.  Put  on  fire  in  cold  water.  Boil  slowly  until 
meat  falls  from  bones.  Remove  from  the  fire,  strain  and  cool. 
Take  fat  off  the  top  and  re-heat,  seasoning  with  salt.  Serve  hot 

in  cups. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

* 

JELLIED  BOUILLON. 

Take  three  knuckle  joints  of  beef  which  have  been  well 
cracked  open,  cover  with  cold  water,  salt,  and  boil  until  there 
are  about  two  quarts  of  liquor,  adding  a  handful  of  parsley 
half  an  hour  before  it  is  done.  Strain  and  pour  in  moulds.  It 


374  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

is  nice  served  in  individual  moulds,  but  can  be  served  from  one 
large  mould.  Set  on  ice  until  thoroughly  chilled,  when  it  will 
be  firm.  This  is  especially  nice  in  hot  weather  served  with  salt- 
ed wafers. — Mrs.  Bertha  S.  Kennedy,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CELERY   BROTH. 

Take  four  or  five  heads  of  celery,  wash  them,  and  cut  them 
up  into  lengths.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water  to 
which  has  been  added  seasoning  of  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  pepper, 
and  a  little  sugar.  Add  three  potatoes  cut  in  slices,  and  l3oil 
until  the  celery  is  tender.  Strain,  and  return  to  the  saucepan, 
add  one  pint  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  allow 
to  boil  up  again.  Serve  hot  or  jellied. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOTJP. 

Three  cups  celery  cut  in  one-half  inch  pieces,  one  pint  boiling 
water,  one  slice  onion,  three  tablespoons  butter,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  a  little  pepper,  one-half  cup  milk  and  four  table- 
spoons flour.  Make  same  as  cream  potato  soup. — Boston  Cook- 
ing School. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP. 

Cut  one  bunch  celery  and  one  large  onion  in  small  pieces. 
Cook  until  tender,  put  through  a  potato  press,  add  as  much  milk 
as  you  care  to  have  soup.  Thicken  with  flour.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter. — Mrs.  G.  H.  Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAM   CELERY   SOUP. 

Put  in  soup  pot  on  fire  two  cupfuls  chopped  celery,  two  cup- 
fuls  beef  stock.  While  above  is  cooking,  place  in  a  sauce  pan 
on  fire  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Brown 
nicely  and  pour  the  strained  celery  mixture  into  this.  Serve 
hot,  with  spoonful  whipped  cream  on  top  of  each  dish. — Miss 
Charlotte  Wrickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

CHICKEN    BROTH. 

Take  nice  chicken,  cut  up,  remove  all  fat,  boil  slowly  until 
meat  falls  from  bones.  Strain,  season  and  add  little  boiled 

rice.     Serve  hot. 

* 

CHICKEN  CREAM  SOUP. 

Cover  a  chicken  with  cold  water  in  which  put  a  bay  leaf,  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  and  a  root  of  celery.  Boil  until  meat  drops 
from  the  bone,  then  remove  and  strain.  Stand  the  liquor  in  a 
cool  place,  when  the  grease  forms  on  the  top  remove  it.  A 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  375 

strong  jelly  should  form  if  the  chicken  has  been  sufficiently 
cooked.  Measure  the  jelly  and  for  each  pint  allow  a  pint  of 
cream.  Put  each  in  a  separate  dish  to  boil.  Mix  together  one 
even  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  the  same  of  butter.  Rub 
smooth  and  add  to  it  a  very  little  nutmeg  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  onion  juice.  When  the  cream  is  boiling  pour  it  into  the 
boiling  chicken  jelly  and  quickly  add  the  creamed  butter  and 
flour.  Let  boil  for  two  or  three  minutes,  then  serve  hot. — Mrs. 
W.  F.  Baker,  Manistee,  Mich. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Slice  all  of  best  light  and  dark  meat  from  cold  roast  fowl, 
leaving  only  wings  and  carcass,  with  skin  removed  from  meat 
as  well.  Break  bones,  put  them  into  the  soup' kettle  with  two 
quarts  of  cold  water  and  the  uncooked  neck  and  wings,  scalded 
and  cleaned.  Cut  one  pound  lean  veal  in  dice,  dust  with  flour 
and  pepper,  and  brown  in  two  tablespoonfuls  finely  chopped 
bacon,  add  one  cup  hot  water,  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  cool, 
and  pour  into  the  soup  kettle.  Cook  slowly  for  one  hour 
then  add  one  bay  leaf,  one  slice  onion,  on  stalk  celery;  cook 
half  an  hour  longer,  strain  and  cool.  Remove  fat,  cook,  and 
reduce  stock  one-fourth.  Mix  together  in  a  saucepan  two 
tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  butter.  Acid  gradually  one  pint  hot  stock 
and  cook  until  smoothly  thickened,  then  add  one  and  one-half 
cups  hot  stock,  mix  well  and  add  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  and 
diluted  with  one  cup  of  cream.  Do  not  boil  after  egg  is  added, 
but  keep  hot  until  egg  has  thickened.  Serve  in  bouillon  cups, 
with  or  without  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top  of  each. 

CHILI  SOUP. 

Put  half  pound  of  butter  in  kettle.  When  hot,  add  three 
pounds  hamburger  steak  and  sear  thoroughly,  then  add  three 
quarts  soup  beans  that  have  been  cooked  until  tender.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  chili  peppers.  Add  boiling  water.  Cook 
thoroughly.  Strain  and  serve  verv  hot. — Mrs.  Sam  Degering, 
Santa  Fe  System,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

Two  quarts  cold  water,  four  potatoes,  one  onion,  one  turnip, 
one  carrot,  one  tomato,  one-half  cup  of  cabbage,  one  can  of 
clams  (all  chopped),  butter  size  of  an  egpr,  salt,  pepper  to  taste. 
Cook  slowly  four  hours,  add  one  cup  cream  just  before  serving. 
—Mrs.  Watts  S.  Humphrey,  Saginaw,  Mich. 


376  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

PUREE  OF  CLAM. 

Take  one  cup  of  Burnham's  clam  bouillon,  one  cup  of  milk 
and  one  of  cream;  heat  to  the  boiling  point  in  double  boiler, 
strain  into  one  well  beaten  egg,  stirring  until  well  blended.— 
Mrs.  N.  C.  Blacker,  Manistee,  Mich. 

CLEAR   SOUP. 

Brown  in  kettle  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
two  pounds  of  lean  beef  and  two  pounds  of  veal  from  the 
knuckle.  Stir  the  meat  in  the  brown  butter  over  the  fire,  very 
hot,  until  all  is  nicely  browned,  then  cover  closely  and  stew 
gently  one-half  hour ;  add  two  quarts  of  cold  water  to  this  and 
let  the  whole  simmer  for  four  hours.  Add  one  onion,  one  carrot, 
one  stalk  celery;  a  bay  leaf  and  sprig  of  parsley  to  this  stock 
and  cook  very  slowly  for  one  hour  longer.  Strain  through  a 
hair  sieve  or  cloth.  When  cold,  remove  the  fat  from  the  top. 
Let  the  stock  come  to  a  boil,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
the  beaten  white  and  shell  of  one  egg  mixed  in  a  cup  of  cold 
water.  Boil  again  hard  for  ten  minutes,  throw  in  another  cup 
of  cold  water ;  let  the  soup  boil  again  for  five  minutes  and  serve 
hot  in  cups. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Thorsen,  Berkeley,  Calif. 

CONSOMME. 

Consomme  should  be  strained  until  very,  very  clear.  Salt 
and  stir  thoroughly.  When  cool  the  fat  must  be  removed  from 
the  top.  If  it  is  to  be  served  as  jelly,  or  iced,  it  must  be  heated 
enough  to  mould.  It  is  served  hot,  also,  as  a  liquid. 

CONSOMME  MONTMORENCY. 

Wipe  a  four-pound  knuckle  of  veal,  remove  meat  from  bon^ 
and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cook  two  stalks  of  celery  broken  in 
pieces,  eight  slices  of  carrot,  one  (medium  sized)  onion  sliced, 
two  sprigs  each  of  parsley  and  thyme,  and  a  bit  of  bay-leaf,  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  six  minutes.  Put  meat  bone  and 
vegetables  into  a  soup-kettle  and  add  three  quarts  of  cold 
water.  Clean  and  truss  a  four-pound  fowl,  put  in  kettle  and 
place  kettle  on  the  range ;  cover  and  cook  until  fowl  is  tender, 
when  it  should  be  removed  and  the  stock  allowed  to  cook  two 
hours  longer,  then  strain  and  cool ;  remove  fat,  and  clear,  by  us- 
ing the  white  and  shell  of  one  egg  to  each  quart  of  stock.  Soak 
one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  pearl  tapioca  overnight  in  cold  water 
to  cover;  drain  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  transparent, 
drain  again  and  allow  cold  water  to  run  through  strainer  in 
which  tapioca  was  drained  to  separate  the  globules ;  add  to 
cleared  soup  with  one-fourth  cupful  pieces  cut  from  breast  meat 
of  fowl.  Add  salt  to  taste ;  reheat  and  serve. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  377 

CHICKEN    COXSOMME. 

Boil  a  well  scalded  and  cleaned  fowl.  Add  to  the  liquor,  a 
blade  of  mace,  or  celery,  and  a  small  onion  if  desired.  Boil 
until  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones.  Strain,  salt,  and 
place  to  cool.  Remove  fat.  Serve  hot  or  as  jelly. — Mrs.  Wm. 
F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

COXSOMME    OF   MUTTOX. 

Place  twelve  mutton  shanks,  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  and  an' 
onion,  with  four  quarts  of  water  in  an  iron  kettle,  and  allow 
to  simmer  four  to  six  hours.    Strain  off.    Salt  to  taste.    When 
cool,  place  on  ice  to  harden  and  serve  iced.    Or,  serve  hot. 

VEAL,    COXSOMME. 

Take  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  fowl,  four  mutton  shank  bones, 
three  blades  of  mace  or  celery,  a  few  pepper  corns,  an  onion, 
and  boil  in  three  quarts  of  water.  When  it  boils  up, 
skim  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise.  Cover  the  vessel,  and  allow 
to  simmer  four  to  six  hours.  Salt,  cool,  and  serve  iced  or  hot. 
— Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAM  OF  CORX  SOUP. 

One  can  corn,  two  tablespoons  flour,  two  tablespoons  butter, 
one  slice  onion,  a  little  pepper,  one  pint  hot  milk,  one  pint  water 
and  two  teaspoons  salt.  Chop  corn,  add  water  and  simmer 
twenty  minutes.  Follow  directions  for  potato  soup. — Boston 
Cooking  School. 

CREAM  OF  CORX  SOUP. 

Chop  one  can  corn  fine.  Cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour  in 
one  quart  white  stock  (veal  or  chicken),  add  a  slice  of  onion 
and  a  few  stalks  celery.  Strain  and  rub  corn  through  a  sieve. 
Return  to  the  fire  with  one  pint  cream,  and  one  tablespoon  of 
flour  cooked  in  one  of  butter;  season  to  taste,  and  just 
before  serving  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  The 
soup  should  not  be  very  thick,  but  the  flour  is  needed  to  make 
it  smooth  and  to  prevent  the  corn  pulp  from  sinking  to  the 
bottom. — Mrs.  Gardner,  Manistee,  Mich. 

CROUTOXS. 

Cut  rather  thick  slices  of  stale  bread,  spread  liberally  with 
butter,  lay  in  the  tin  in  which  you  are  to  brown  them,  and  then 
(after  removing  the  crusts)  cut  across  each  way,  making  the 
bread  into  cubes.  Brown  in  the  oven  until  crisp.  Serve  hot 
with  soup. — Mrs.  A.  O.  Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 


1 


378  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

CREAM    CORN    SOUP. 

One  can  corn,  medium  sized  onion,  two  cupfuls  sweet  milk. 
Boil  two  hours  or  more  slowly.  Mash  and  strain.  Put  in 
sauce  pan  one  tablespoonful  flour  and  one  tablespoonful  butter. 
Rub  smooth,  add  cupful  beef  stock,  boil  twenty  minutes  and 
add  mashed  and  strained  corn.  Serve  hot  with  teaspoonful 
whipped  cream  on  each  plate. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom, 
Hartford,  Conn. 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP. 

Rub  one  can  of  corn  through  a  sieve  into  a  saucepan,  add 
two  cups  boiling  water,  on  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  celery  salt,  few  drops  onion  juice,  and  white  pepper 
to  taste.  Blend  together  in  a  saucepan  two  and  one-half  table- 
spoonfuls  corn  starch  with  three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
gradually  add  two  cups  cold  milk  and  cook  thoroughly  until 
smoothly  thickened,  then  add  to  the  corn  pulp  and  cook  to- 
gether for  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly  from  the  bottom  so 
that  it  does  not  adhere  to  the  saucepan!  Just  before  serving 
add  one  cup  of  beaten  cream.  Serve  at  once  with  crisp  wafers. 

CORN  SOUP. 

One  dozen  ears  corn  and  scrape.  Boil  corn  and  cobs  in 
enough  water  to  cover,  for  ten  minutes.  Strain  and  to  one 
quart  of  this  water  add  slowly  one  quart  cream.  Season  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes.  Thicken  with  one  tablespoon  each  butter 
and  flour  rubbed  together. — Mrs.  \Y.  \Y.  Bass,  Grand  Canyon, 
Ariz. 

CREAM  OF  OXION  SOUP. 

Slice  two  large  onions  and  fry  until  lightly  browned  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  butter,  then  add  one-fourth  cup  of  corn  starch, 
one  tablespoonful  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  and  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  white  pepper.  Stir  until  slightly  browned,  but  do 
not  allow  to  burn.  Pour  in  gradually  two  cups  boiling  water 
and  cook  until  smooth.  Keep  hot.  Scald  one  quart  of  milk, 
pour  it  gradually  on  to  one  cup  smoothly  mashed  potatoes. 
Cpmbine  the  mixture.  Simmer  and  stir  for  a  few  minutes, 
add  one  cup  croutons,  cover,  and  let  stand  a  moment  before 
serving. 

A  NUTRITIOUS  COTTAGE  SOUP. 

One-half  pound  neck  of  mutton,  one  cupful  of  rice,  one  car- 
rot, one  turnip,  two  and  one-half  quarts  of  water  or  stock, 
two  large  onions,  one  tablespoonful  of  drippings,  one  teaspoon- 


i 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  379 

ful  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  a  dry,  clean  cauce- 
pan  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  drippings,  or  fat  of  some  kind; 
let  it  get  quite  hot.  Cut  up  the  mutton  into  small  square  pieces ; 
put  them  and  the  bones  into  the  saucepan  with  the  fat  and  fry, 
turning  them  with  a  spoon.  Cut  up  the  carrot  and  tur- 
nip in£o  small  square  pieces  the  size  of  peas,  and  add  them  to 
to  the  meat;  then  the  onions,  washed  and  cut  small.  Keep 
turning  all  over  with  the  spoon ;  then  add  the  rice,  well  washed, 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  the  whole 
be  turned  about  in  the  pot  with  the  spoon  for  more  than  five 
minutes ;  then  add  two  quarts  and  a  half  of  water.  Put  on  the 
lid,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  boil  slowly  for  a  little  more  than  an 
hour.  Add  pepper  and  salt  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

LENT  SOUP. 

Peel  and  chop  up  fine  a  few  small  white  onions,  put  them 
into  a  large  saucepan  with  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  allow  to  heat  thoroughly  with  the  lid  on,  but  do  not  brown. 
\Yash  two  cupfuls  of  lentils  well,  add  them  to  the  saucepan, 
covering  with  three  pints  of  water,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
pepper.  Allow  to  simmer  gently  for  two  and  a  half  hours, 
then  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and  return  to  the  saucepan. 
\Yhen  it  boils  up  again  add  some  green  onions  cut  fine,  a 
grated  turnip  and  carrot,  and  boil  for  half  an  hour  longer.  Add 
a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley  a  few  minutes  before 
serving,  and  send  to  the  table  with  plenty  of  toasted  bread,  cut 
into  neat,  small  squares. — Contributed. 

MUTTON   SOUP. 

Put  three  pounds  neck  of  mutton  into  two  quarts  cold  water, 
with  small  onion  and  little  turnip.  Boil  slowly  until  meat  falls 
from  bones.  Strain  and  season.  Add  little  cooked  rice  or 
vermicelli.  Serve  hot  with  chopped  parsley  on  top  of  each 
plate  or  cup. 

MUTTON    SOUP. 

Cut  in  squares  a  pound  of  lean  mutton,  and  brown  in  sauce- 
pan with  a  little  fat.  and  chopped  onion.  Moisten  with  three 
pints  of  stock,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Add  chopped 
celery.  Boil  one-half  an  hour.  Strain  and  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  cooked  barley.  Serve  hot. 

ONION   SOUP. 

Brown  two  onions  in  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoonful 
butter;  stir  in  a  little  flour,  and  moisten  with  one  and  one-half 


380  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

pints  white  broth.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
cook  for  ten  minutes.  Place  small  square  of  toasted  bread  in  a 
bowl,  cover  them  with  fine  slices  of  Swiss  cheese,  pour  hot 
broth  over  them,  add  a  few  more  slices  of  cheese  on  top,  and 
put  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes  before  serving. — Contributed. 

CREAM   OYSTER   SOUP. 

Drain  one  can  oysters,  retaining  the  liquor.  Put  in  the  dou- 
ble boiler :  two  quarts  rich  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter, 
one-half  cupful  fine  cracker  crumbs,  salt  to  taste.  Pour  in  the 
oyster  juice,  and  get  scalding  hot.  Add  the  oysters  about  five 
minutes  before  serving. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

OYSTER   STEW. 

Oysters  scalded  in  their  own  liquor",  taken  out,  liquor  skim- 
med and  poured  back  to  the  oysters ;  milk  brought  to  a  boil,  add 
butter,  little  red  pepper,  oysters  and  liquor  poured  in  dish. 
Served  with  oyster  crackers. — Contributed. 

CREAM  OF  PEA  SOUP. 

One  quart  can  green  peas,  one  medium  sized  onion  with 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  cook  slowly  two  hours ;  mash  and  strain. 
To  this  add  two  cups  beef  stock  and  simmer  fifteen  minutes. 
Season  and  serve  with  thin  slice  of  lemon  in  each  plate. — Con- 
tributed. 

PEANUT  SOUP. 

To  any  rich  milk  or  cream  soup,  add  chopped  peanuts. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP. 

One  cupful  dry  split  peas,  two  quarts  boiling  water,  one- 
fourth  pound  salt  pork.  Boil  three  hours  slowly.  Remove 
and  mash,  add  butter  and  seasoning.  Serve  hot  with  teaspoon 
whipped  cream  on  each  plate.  Or  chopped  parsley  is  good  as 
well  as  pretty. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP. 

One  cupful  of  dried  split  peas,  eight  cupfuls  of  cold  water, 
two  cupfuls  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  small  onion,  salt  pork,  salt  and  pepper. 
Pick  over  the  peas,  wash  them,  then  soak  in  plenty  of  cold 
water  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  off  the  water  and  put 
the  peas  in  a  kettle  with  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  a  two-inch 
cube  of  salt  pork,  and  the  onion  sliced.  Cook  slowly  until  the 
peas  have  become  very  soft,  stirring  frequently  from  the  bottom 


WIUJAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  381 

to  prevent  burning.  It  will  probably  require  four  or  five  hours 
to  cook  them  properly.  When  they  are  done  rub  them  through 
a  sieve.  Return  to  the  kettle  and  let  them  boil  again.  Beat  the 
butter  and  flour  to  a  cream,  and  after  thinning  it  with  a  little  of 
the  boiling  soup  stir  the  mixture  into  the  soup.  Season  with 
salt  and  peper.  Add  the  milk,  and,  when  the  soup  boils  up, 
serve. 

POTATO    SOUP. 

Peel  and  boil  until  soft  six  good  sized  potatoes.  Drain  and 
mash  them,  add  two  small  onions  grated,  two  cups  of  white 
sauce  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  four  cups  'of 
scalded  milk.  Let  soup  boil  up  once.  One  cup  of  cream  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley  may  be  added.  This 
recipe  makes  eight  plates  of  soup. — Mrs.  T.  J.  Ramsdell,  Man- 
istee,  Mich. 

POTATO    SOUP. 

Pare  and  boil  two  pounds  of  potatoes  in  the  ordinary  way. 
Peel  and  shred  finely  two  good-sized  onions,  and  simmer  slowly 
in  a  little  water.  When  the  potatoes  and  onions  are  cooked 
rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  smoothly  with  milk  to  the 
consistency  of  cream,  adding  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Place  a  scrupulously  clean 
saucepan  on  the  fire,  with  two  quarts  of  milk.  Bring  it  to  a 
boil,  stir  in  the  potatoes  slowly  and  smoothly,  allowing  it  to 
boil  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  If  flavoring  is  liked,  a  little 
finely  chopped  parsley  or  mint  may  be  added  a  few  minutes 
before  serving.  This  is  an  economical  and  nutritious  soup  for 
children. — Contributed. 

CREAM   POTATO    SOUP. 

Put  in  double  boiler  and  simmer,  two  quarts  rich  sweet  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  good  sized  onion  sliced,  three  or 
four  slices  salt  pork.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving,  skim  out 
the  pork  and  onion.  Add  six  tablespoonfuls  mashed  and  sea- 
soned potatoes.  Serve  individually  with  chopped  parsley  on 
top  of  each  plate. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP. 

Cook  three  potatoes,  rub  through  strainer,  scald  one  quart 
milk  with  two  slices  onion,  remove  onion,  add  milk  to  potatoes. 
Cream  three  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  a  little 
pepper,  one-fourth  teaspoon  celery  salt,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons salt,  chopped  parsley  and  cayenne ;  add  to  soup,  cook 
fifteen  minutes. — Boston  Cooking  School. 


382  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

RICE   SOUP. 

Put  four  tablespoons  rice  in  one  pint  boiling  water  (salted). 
Cook  until  tender,  add  butter  and  pepper  and  the  white  of  one 
egg.  Beat  the  yolk  with  one-half  cup  milk,  add  to  the  soup 
and  stir  constantly  to  prevent  curdling. — Mrs.  Parker,  Los 
Angeles,  Calif. 

SCOTCH    BROTH. 

Put  two  quarts  of  water  in  a  saucepan,  add  quarter  pound 
of  pearl  barley,  which  has  been  well  washed  in  several  waters. 
Take  two  medium-sized  turnips,  wash  and  pare  them,  and  cut 
them  into  dice,  three  carrots  which  have  been  washed  and 
scraped  and  also  cut  into  dice,  add  these  to  the  broth,  with 
two  sliced  onions,  and  one  can  of  green  peas  or  fresh  ones 
when  they  are  in  season.  The  broth  must  simmer  for  three 
hours,  and  ten  minutes  before  serving,  add  two  tablespoon fuls 
finely  chopped  parsley,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  salt  to 
taste. — Contributed. 

CREAM  OF  SPINACH  SOUP. 

Pick,  wash  and  boil  enough  spinach  to  measure  a  pint  when 
cooked,  chopped  and  pounded  into  a  soft  paste.  Put  into  stew- 
pan  with  four  tablespoonfuls  butter,  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and 
salt.  Cook  and  stir  about  twenty  minutes.  Add  to  this  two 
quarts  strong  stock.  Let  it  boil  up  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
Set  it  over  the  fire  again  and  when  on  the  point  of  boiling  mix 
in  tablespoonful  butter.  Serve  hot  with  chopped  hard  boiled 
eggs  in  each  plate. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter,  Hackensack.  X.  J. 

SPINACH    SOUP. 

Put  large  quart  spinach  in  hot  kettle;  toss  to  keep  from 
burning  until  soft ;  add  two  tablespoons  chopped  onion  and  one 
qaurt  milk.  Cook  slowly  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  two  table- 
spoons butter  and  thicken  with  two  tablespoons  flour.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. — Mrs.  X.  J.  Hudson,  Los  Angeles.  Calif. 

TOMATO  SOUPS. 

One  can  of  tomatoes  or  eight  large  fresh  ones,  two  carrots, 
one  turnip,  two  onions,  one  quart  of  water,  one  cupful  of  milk. 
one  tablespoonful  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two  blades 
of  mace,  one  bay  leaf,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  half  teaspoon ful 
whole  white  peppers.  Put  the  butter  into  the  soup  pot.  add  the 
vegetables  cut  into  small  pieces  and  fry  them  for  ten  minutes ; 
they  must  not  be  browned.  Add  the  flour,  water,  tomatoes, 
mace,  bay  leaf,  whole  peppers  and  salt.  Simmer  gently  for  one 
hour  then  rub  them  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  pot,  add 
the  milk,  season  and  serve. — Contributed.  


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  383 

TOMATO   BISQUE. 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  half  can  onion,  some  sprigs  of  parsley, 
salt,  pepper,  one  tablespoon  butter :  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes, 
add  one-half  teaspoon  soda.  When  it  stops  foaming  add  one 
quart  of  hot  milk,  strain  and  thicken  slightly,  then  strain  hot 
into  hot  cups  in  which  a  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream  has 
been  put. 

CLEAR   TOMATO   SOUP. 

One  can  tomatoes,  two  teaspoons  sugar,  one  slice  onion, 
four  cloves,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  bay  leaf,  three  table- 
spoons flour,  twelve  pepper  corns,  one-eighth  teaspoon  soda, 
one  pint  water,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  cayenne.  Cook 
first  six  ingredients  twenty  minutes.  Strain,  add  rest,  boil  and 
strain. — Boston  Cooking  School. 

CREAM   TOMATO   SOUP. 

One  can  tomatoes,  strain,  bring  to  a  boil,  add  salt,  pepper 
and  level  teaspoon  of  soda  and  one  teaspoon  sugar;  then  add 
one  quart  rich  milk  and  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Let  come  to  a 
boil.— Mrs.  J.  R.  Treat,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

CREAM   OF   TOMATO    SOUP. 

One-half  can  tomatoes,  two  teaspoons  sugar,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon soda,  one  quart  milk,  one  slice  onion,  four  tablespoons 
flour,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  four  tablespoons  butter  and 
one  teaspoon  salt.  Scald  milk  with  onions,  remove  onions, 
make  a  white  sauce  of  milk,  butter,  flour  and  seasoning.  Cook 
tomatoes  with  sugar  fifteen  minutes,  add  soda.  Rub  thorugh 
sieve;  combine  mixture  and  strain. — Boston  Cooking  School. 

CREAM  TOMATO  •SOUP. 

One-half  can  tomatoes,  butter  and  onion  size  of  an 
egg;  simmer  on  back  of  range  for  two  hours.  Put  in  sauce- 
pan one  tablespoonful  flour,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  When 
browned  nicely  add  one  cube  sugar,  one  cupful  beef  stock.  Let 
come  to  a  boil  and  add  one  cupful  sweet  milk.  Season  to  taste. 
Put  ingredients  together  just  before  serving.  Serve  hot  with 
chopped  parsley  or  water  cress,  and  one  teasponful  whipped 
cream  on  top  of  each  plate. — Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hart- 
ford, Conn. 

CREAM  TOMATO  SOUP. 

One  quart  tomatoes,  one  quart  milk  with  a  little  cream,  one 
pint  water,  one-third  teaspoon  soda,  one  spoon  flour.  Run 
tomatoes  through  sieve  and  boil  in  a  granite  dish,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  small  piece  of  butter.  Rub  butter  and 


384  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

flour  together,  add  to  milk.  When  tomatoes  boil  add  the  soda, 
then  when  milk  has  come  to  a  boil,  turn  the  tomatoes  and  milk 
together  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  F.  O.  Poison,  Williams,  Ariz. 

ITALIAN  TOMATO  SOUP. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  delicious  soups  I  have  ever  eaten, 
and  I  have  never  seen  this  recipe  in  print.  It  is  a  very  economi- 
cal and  good  emergency  soup,  as  it  can  be  prepared  in  half  an 
hour.  One  onion  fried  in  butter  (do  not  let  it  brown),  two 
cans  of  tomatoes  and  one  quart  of  water.  Add  the  onion  to  the 
tomatoes  and  let  boil  twenty  minutes.  Strain  through  a  col- 
ander, set  back  on  stove,  and  add  one  heaping  tablespoon  of 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  water,  one  dozen  cloves,  salt  and  sugar 
to  taste.  Let  boil  five  minutes,  then  add  one  tablespoon  of 
Worcestershire  sauce. — Mrs.  McLarty,  Manistee,  Mich. 

TURKEY  BOXE  SOUP. 

Cut  up  the  frame  of  turkey  with  little  stuffing.  Put  in 
cold  water  in  soup  kettle  and  slowly  cook  for  three  hours.  One 
hour  before  serving,  strain,  and  add  boiled  rice.  Season  to 
taste. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

VEAL  SOUP. 

Put  knuckle  of  veal  in  four  quarts  of  cold  water  with  one 
onion  and  two  stalks  celery.  Boil  slowly  until  meat  is  done. 
Strain ;  season  to  taste.  Add  about  two  tablespoonfuls  cooked 
rice.  Serve  hot,  with  croutons  added  last. 

VEAL  SOUP. 

Put  a  knuckle  of  veal  into  three  quarts  cold  water.  Boil 
slowly;  when  liquor  is  reduced  half,  remove  from  fire.  Into 
the  tureen  put  the  yolk  of  one  egg.  Stir  well  into  it  one  tea- 
cupful  of  sweet  cream ;  add  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  hickory 
nut,  on  this,  strain  the  soup,  boiling  hot,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Serve  hot  with  chopped  parsley. 

VEGETABLE   CON  SOM  ME. 

Cut  two  pounds  of  lean  veal  into  small  pieces,  adding  half  a 
pound  of  lean  ham,  and  a  small  chicken.  Place  in  a  deep  iron 
kettle  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  three  onions,  two  carrots,  eight 
large  mushrooms,  one  celery  stalk,  one  parsnip,  a  blade  of  mace, 
and  a  pint  of  cold  water ;  let  it  stew  till  it  catches  at  the  bottom 
and  is  quite  brown,  but  not  burnt,  then  add  four  quarts  of  water. 
Boil  gently  for  four  hours  or  more,  or  till  the  meat  separates 
from- the  bones.  Salt,  strain  thoroughly  and  cool.  Remove 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  385 

fat.  This  will  make  enough  for  more  than  one  meal  and  can 
be  served  once  cold  and  once  hot. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Carpenter, 
Hackensack,  N.  J. 

VEGETABLE   SOUP. 

Wash  and  scrape  a  small  carrot,  and  cut  in  quarters  length- 
wise ;  cut  quarters  in  thirds  lengthwise,  and  cut  strips  thus  madf 
in  slices  crosswise.  Wash  and  pare  half  a  turnip,  and  cut  and 
slice  same  as  carrot.  Wash,  pare  and  cut  potatoes  in  small 
pieces.  Wash  and  scrape  celery,  and  cut  in  one-fourth  inch 
pieces.  After  the  vegetables  have  been  prepared  measure,  tak- 
ing one-third  of  a  cupful  of  carrot,  one-third  cupful  of  turnip, 
one-half  cupful  of  celery  and  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  potato. 
Cut  half  an  onion  in  thin  slices.  Mix  vegetables,  except  pota- 
toes, and  cook  ten  minutes  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  potatoes,  cover,  and  cook  two  min- 
utes ;  add  four  cupfuls  of  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and 
simmer  one  hour.  Beat  with  a  fork  or  a  spoon  so  as  to  break 
vegetables.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  table- 
spoon of  finely  chopped  parsley,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per.— Mrs.  E.  Pallett,  Williams,  Ariz. 

VEGETABLE   SOUP. 

Boil  a  small  shank  of  beef  for  two  or  three  hours ;  then 
strain  and  return  to  the  pot.  Shred  one  carrot  in  long  pieces, 
cut  two  onions  and  two  or  three  stalks  of  celery,  one  turnip 
and  two  tomatoes.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt. — 
Mrs.  E.  Pallett,  Williams,  Ariz. 


386  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  387 


388  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  389 

VEGETABLES 


Captivated  by  order  of  the  kitchen. 

Vegetables  are  the  most  useful  accessory  to  our  daily  food 
and  their  cooking  should  receive  attention.  It  is  considered  a 
simple  thing  to  boil  a  pot  of  potatoes,  yet  their  palatableness 
depend  largely  on  the  way  it  is  done.  Nearly  all  vegetables  are 
much  better  put  in  boiling  water,  as  the  fine  flavor  is  thus  re- 
tained. Care  should  be  taken  not  to  overcook  them,  and  should 
be  served  immediately.  Potatoes  should  be  pared  very  thin 
as  the  most  nutritious  part  is  next  to  the  skin.  Some  vege- 
tables, as  onions,  cabbage,  carrots  and  turnips,  should  be 
cooked  in  a  great  deal  of  water  and  when  done  immediately 
drained. 

A   SUGGESTION  AS  TO  VEGETABLES. 

Xot  more  than  two  kinds  of  vegetables  should  be  served  with 
a  course.  Lamb  finds  its  appropriate  accompaniment  in  pota- 
toes, peas,  spinach  or  asparagus.  Roast  mutton  calls  for  sal- 
sify, spinach,  turnip,  cauliflower  or  potatoes.  Roast  goose  de- 
mands onions  creamed,  prune  or  chestnut  stuffing  or  souffles, 
Hubbard  squash,  and  apple  sauce,  of  course.  Roast  beef  affili- 
ates with  carrots,  cauliflower,  onions,  squash  or  string-beans. 
With  fresh  pork,  apple  sauce  seems  necessary. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Boil  in  salted  water,  completely  covered,  until  tender.  Keep 
hot.  Serve  individually  with 

Hollandaise  Sauce. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  juice  of  one-half 
lemon,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper, 
one  cup  boiling  water.  Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream  in  a  warm 
bowl  with  a  wooden  or  silver  spoon.  Add  the  yolks  one  at  a 
time  and  beat  fast  and  well,  then  salt  and  pepper  and  one  heap- 
ing teaspoon  of  sifted  flour.  About  five  minutes  before  serving 
add  the  boiling  water.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  sauce  pan  of  boiling 
water  and  stir  rapidly  until  it  thickens  like  boiled  custard.  Add 
the  lemon  juice  with  the  water. — Mrs.  A.  D.  Wheeler,  Man- 
istee,  Mich. 

ARTICHOKES   HEARTS. 

Heat  the  contents  of  one  bottle  or  can  of  artichoke  hearts, 
season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  until  juice  has 


390  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

nearly  gone.  Serve  hot  on  buttered  toast,  with  Hollandaise 
sauce  made  as  follows :  Place  in  a  saucepan  on  range,  one 
chopped  onion,  three  small  chopped  peppers,  one  bay  leaf,  two 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter;  moisten  with 
one  and  one-half  pints  chicken  or  beef  stock.  Mix  well.  Add 
one-half  teaspoonful  grated  horseradish,  one-half  teaspoon ful 
salt  Cook  twenty-five  minutes  or  more ;  strain.  Beat  yolks 
three  eggs  with  juice  of  medium  sized  lemon.  Then  pour  grad- 
ually into  the  sauce,  being  careful  not  to  boil  it  again,  after  they 
have  been  added.  Serve  hot  around  the.  artichoke  hearts,  with 
about  five  on  each  plate  on  toast. — Mrs.  Win.  F.  Dermont, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Sauce :  Have  in  a  sauce- 
pan on  the  range,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  small  green 
pepper  chopped,  one  onion  chopped.  Simmer  for  three  minutes 
without  browning,  then  add  heaping  taspoonful  flour,  contin- 
ually mi>;  while  cooking  for  three  minutes;  then  add  six  peeled 
chopped  tomatoes,  also  a  teacupful  of  beef  stock.  Season  with 
salt  and  just  one  drop  of  tabasco  sauce.  Cook  slowly  for  thirty 
minutes.  Put  through  a  sieve  and  serve  hot,  over  boiled  as- 
paragus.— Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

Boil  one  quart  of  white  beans  four  hours  in  high  altitude, 
drain  and  put  in  bean  jar;  add  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  cooking 
molasses,  one  teaspoon  of  ground  chili,  one  small  onion  and  lay 
slices  of  salt  pork  on  top  of  beans,  add  water  to  cover  them  and 
bake  five  hours  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  A.  Willson,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

Parboil  one  pint  beans  ten  minutes  in  water  with  a  little  soda. 
Drain,  wash  in  cold  water.  Put  in  baking  dish  with  one-half 
pound  salt  pork,  one  tablespoon  New  Orleans  molasses,  one- 
half  teaspoon  black  pepper  and  two  quarts  cold  water.  Bake 
nine  hours. — Mrs.  Montgomery,  Williams.  Ariz. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

Soak  one  quart  small  white  beans  in  cold  water  over  night, 
drain ;  add  fresh  water  and  simmer  till  soft  but  not  broken ; 
skim  beans  into  pan  with  cover,  add  one-half  pound  salt  pork 
cut  in  dice ;  mix  one  level  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  brown  sugar, 
mustard,  and  two  tablespoons  molasses ;  fill  cup  with  boiling 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  391 

water,  pour  over  beans;  add  enough  water  to  nearly  fill  pot. 
As  water  boils  out  add  more  till  nearly  done,  then  let  cook  dry. 
—Airs.  J.  R.  Treat,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

TOMATO   BAKED    BEANS. 

Soak  one  pint  beans  over  night,  add  one-fourth  pound  salt 
pork,  one-half  can  tomatoes,  one  tablespoon  salt,  two  table- 
spoons sugar,  and  one  level  teaspoon  mustard ;  cover  with 
water,  adding  hot  water  as  it  boils  down.  Bake. — Mrs.  H.  F. 
Adams,  Williams,  Ariz. 

YANKEE  BAKED  PORK  AND  BEANS. 

One  cup  of  beans,  one  quart  of  cold  water  and  a  piece  of 
soda  as  large  as  a  bean.  Put  over  the  fire  until  the  water 
commences  to  boil  well,  then  drain  off.  Return  beans  to  the  fire 
with  boiling  water  on  them  and  add  a  piece  of  fat  salt  pork 
about  four  inches  square.  Let  them  boil  gently  until  the  beans 
are  very  nearly  done  enough  to  eat,  keeping  plenty  of  liquor  on 
them  to  last  while  baking.  Now  season  the  beans  with  one 
even  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  two 
teaspoons  of  tomato  catsup,  white  pepper  and  salt.  Score  the 
rind  of  the  pork  and  place  the  piece  in  the  center  of  your  baking 
dish,  pouring  the  beans  around  it,  but  not  over  the  top.  Have 
the  rind  of  the  pork  on  top. .  Bake  until  the  rind  is  crisp,  which 
will  probably  be  about  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  This  is 
enough  for  four  people. — Mrs.  A.  O.  Wheeler,  Manistee,  Mich. 

FRIED   BEANS. 

Boil  one  quart  pink  beans  all  day.  Just  before  serving  heat 
one  tablespoon  lard  in  pan  till  smoking  hot,  add  beans  with  as 
little  of  the  water  as  possible.  Mash  and  add  salt  and  green 
chili  to  taste  and  water  beans  were  cooked  in. — Mrs.  Eva 
Wheeler,  Flagstaff,  Ariz. 

BEAN  LOAF. 

Two  cups  cooked  beans,  one  egg  well  beaten,  two  table- 
spoons peanut  butter  in  equal  amount  of  milk,  one  teaspoon 
each  sage  and  chopped  onion.  Thicken  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  pepepr  to  taste,  Bake  till  thick  enough  to  slice  when  cold. 
— Mrs.  Bennett,  Warren,  Ind. 

BEETS. 

Cook  medium  small  beets  tender.  Remove  jackets  when 
warm.  Slice  thin  into  a  sauce  made  of  hot  vinegar,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  little  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  hot.  If  there  are 


392  THE  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 

more  beets  than  needed,  slice  into  warm  good  vinegar  and  set 
away  for  cold  pickled  beets. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

YALE  BEETS. 

Cook  beets  in  salt  water  until  tender,  cut  in  dice  and  serve 
in  the  following  dressing:  One  tablespoon  corn  starch,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  a 
dash  of  pepper,  moisten  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  one  cup 
weak  vinegar,  cook  till  it  thickens;  if  too  thick,  thin  with 
water,  add  one  tablespoon  butter  and  the  beets.  Let  stand 
one-half  hour  in  warm  place.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Phil- 
brook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 

CAROMELED   CARROTS. 

Cut  one  or  two  large  carrots  into  thin  pieces  about  one  inch 
long,  put  them  in  saucepan,  sprinkle  them  well  with  sugar  and 
place  one  tablespoon  butter  on  top.  Pour  on  enough  water  to 
just  cover,  let  simmer  until  all  but  about  one  tablespoon  of  this 
has  boiled  away  by  which  time  they  will  be  soft.  Then  sift  a 
little  flour  over  them  and  stir  it  through  them  until  the  water 
is  absorbed.  A  nice  sweet  to  serve  with  meat,  or,  as  a  luncheon 
dish. — Mrs.  Thomas  Maddock,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAM    CABBAGE. 

One  cup  of  milk,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  one  egg,  three 
tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  teaspoonful  dry  mustard ;  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Chop  raw  cabbage  fine;  cook  sauce  (except  vine- 
gar, have  that  cold)  and  pour  over  cabbage. — Miss  Katherine 
Anderson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Put  in  kettle,  keep  covered  with  salt  boiling  water.  Cook  until 
tender.  Set  in  hot  oven  to  brown  top.  Dressing :  In  a  sauce- 
pan put  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  rub  smooth,  add  one  pint  sweet  milk,  little  salt,  cook 
till  little  thick  and  serve  hot  around  the  cauliflower. — Miss 
Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

He  used  to  send  her  roses; 

He  sent  them  every  hour, 
But  now  they're  married  and  he  sends 

Her  home  a  cauliflower. 

BAKED  GREEN  CORN. 

Grate  one  dozen  ears  green  corn,  add  one  cup  milk,  salt  and 
a  little  butter.  Bake  one  hour. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Cole,  Middle- 
town,  Conn. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  393 

BAKED  SWEET  CORN. 

Take  five  good  sized  ears  of  sweet  corn,  cut  the  kernels  and 
scrape,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg, 
tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  milk,  and  one  pint  of 
milk,  salt  to  taste.  Put  in  oven  and  bake  one-half  hour. — 
Mrs.  R.  G.  Peters,  Manistee,  Mich. 

FRIED  GREEN  CORN  AND  PEPPERS. 

Cut  the  corn  finely  from  six  ears  of  corn,  slice  the  outside 
finely  of  one  green  pepper.  Have  your  frying  pan  hot.  Put 
in  a  piece  of  butter  nearly  the  size  of  an  egg  ,and  your  corn 
and  pepper  imemdiately,  add  salt  and  fry  quickly. — Contributed. 

BAKED  CUCUMBERS. 

Cut  cucumbers  lengthwise.  Scoop  out  center,  To  two  cu- 
cumbers add  two  tomatoes,  two  small  onions,  two  stalks  celery 
and  a  few  drops  tobasco  sauce.  Cook  until  thick.  Put  in  cu- 
cumber shells ;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  piece  of  butter. 
Bake  one-half  hour. — Mrs.  Bernice  Smith,  Grand  Canyon, 
Ariz. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS. 

Take  four  medium  sized  cucumbers,  chop  fine  in  chopping 
bowl.  Add  one-half  cup  flour  with  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der, sifted  well  together,  and  a  little  water  to  make  batter. 
Fry  as  fritters  in  hot  butter,  or  in  hot  fat. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Back, 
Montizumas  Well,  Ariz. 

DANDELION. 

Select,  wash  and  dry,  nice  young  dandelions.  Put  in  pot  of 
boiling  salt  water,  with  piece  of  salt  pork.  Cook  until  tender, 
drain,  and  serve  hot  with  vinegar  or  any  desired  sauce. — Mrs. 
Martin  Buggeln,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BAKED  EGG  PLANT. 

Parboil  one  egg  plant  until  tender.  Scrape  out  inside.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  butter  and  in  it  brown  one-fourth  of  an  onion 
chopped  fine.  Mash  pulp  of  egg  plant  and  mix  with  two  table- 
spoons bread  crumbs  and  yolk  of  one  egg,  salt  and  pepper. 
Fry  mixture  in  butter  and  onion.  Replace  in  the  egg  plant, 
cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake.  Baste  often. — Mrs.  Geo. 
Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

TO   COOK   EGG   PLANT. 

Boil  one  medium  sized  plant  \vhole  for  one-half  hour  in  hot 
water,  with  a  little  vinegar.  Put  through  a  colander,  then 


394  THE  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 

add  to  it  two  eggs  beaten  light,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  lightly  and  shape  in  small  flat  cakes 
and  fry  quickly  in  hot  butter. — Mrs.  Leon  Walters,  Manistee, 
Mich. 

STUFFED  MANGOES. 

One  pound  mangoes,  one  pound  hamburger  steak,  one-half 
pound  cheese,  two  large  or  three  small  tomatoes,  two  or  three 
crackers,  one  onion,  one  small  chili,  salt  to  taste.  Remove  seeds 
and  veins  from,  mangoes,  stuff  and  bake. — Contributed. 

LEFTOVERS,  SPANISH. 

Take  cold  roast  left  over  from  dinner,  cut  fine ;  place  in  pan 
and  fry  brown,  cut  onion  and  chili. pod  and  put  with  the  meat, 
then  add  tomatoes  and  spaghetti  and  a  little  water,  and  let  it 
boil  one-half  hour. — Mrs.  A.  Willson,  Williams,  Ariz. 

.  MACARONI  AND  CHEESE. 

Cook  macaroni  in  water  in  double  boiler  for  about  one  hour. 
Grate  dry  cheese.  Put  a  layer  of  cooked  macaroni  on  bottom  Of 
bake  dish,  then  a  layer  of  grated  cheese.  Over  this  pour  milk 
in  which  an  egg  has  been  beaten.  Fill  the  dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  cheese  and  macaroni  with  needed  moisture,  and  when 
filled  put  seasoned  cracker  crumbs  on  the  top,  with  moisture 
and  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  and  serve  hot.— Mrs.  Win.  F.  Der- 
mont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Wash  and  dry  mushrooms;  roll  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Fry  in  equal  parts  of 
butter  and  lard,  to  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  crusp  and  hot. — 
Mrs.  Jas.  L.  Wade,  Williams,  Ariz. 

MUSHROOMS  AND  BEEFSTEAK. 

Small  T-bone  steak,  one  can  mushrooms.  Drain  the  liquor 
from  the  mushrooms  and  put  them  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  little 
butter.  Add  pepper  and  salt.  When  they  are  slightly  browned 
draw  them  to  one  side  of  the  pan,  put  into  the  pan  a  heaping 
teaspoon  of  flour  and  rub  it  smooth  in  the  hot  butter.  When 
the  flour  becomes  brown,  pour  in  the  mushroom  liquid  and  a 
little  water.  Stir  the  mushrooms  with  the  mixture  and  let  all 
boil;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  pour  over  the  steak. 
— Mrs.  Wm.  Hayward,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 


WILUAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  395 

MUSHROOMS    FOR    BEEFSTEAK. 

One  can  mushrooms  cooked  in  own  liquid  with  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt,  about  ten  minutes.  Put  in  sauce  pan  one  table- 
spoonful  each  flour  and  butter;  brown  nicely,  add  one-half 
cupful  beef  stock,  and  the  juice  with  the  mushrooms  and  one^- 
half  cupful  rich  cream.  Boil  up  good,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce.  Serve  hot  around  a  hot  steak. 
Garnish  with  parsley. — Miss  Esther  Hanson,  Hartford,  Conn. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE  FOR  BEEFSTEAK. 

Take  one  can  of  mushrooms,  and  if  large  cut  them  up  a 
little.  Place  in  a  skillet  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Let 
fry  to  a  light  brown.  Add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  soup 
stock,  if  you  have  it,  if  not,  use  hot  water,  and  three  table- 
spoons of  tomato  catsup,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Thicken  a 
very  little  with  flour.  Let  boil  up  thoroughly  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  J.  D.  Munson,  Manistee,  Mich. 

SILVER-  SKINNED  ONIONS  IN  CREAM. 

Remove  skins  from  one  quart  of  silver-skinned  onions.  Put 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  one-half  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  drain.  Again 
cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and.  cook  until  soft,  but  not 
broken,  and  drain  thoroughly.  Melt  three  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  pour  on  gradually 
one  cupful  of  scalded  milk  and  one-half  cupful  of  cream.  Add 
onions  to  sauce  and  let  stand  twenty  minutes.  Season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper. — Contributed,  Williams,  Ariz. 

CREAMED   ONIONS. 

Select  medium  small  even  sized  white  onions.  Cook  in  boil- 
ing salt  water  until  nearly  done;  drain  off  water.  In  sauce- 
pan put  one  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter,  brown  nicely, 
add  one  cupful  beef  stock,  put  in  the  cooked  onions,  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  season  to  taste.  About  fifteen  minutes  before 
serving,  add  one  cupful  rich  sweet  cream.  Serve  very  hot. — 
Miss  Charlotte  Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Vonn. 

STUFFED  ONIONS. 

Select  large,  even  sized  smooth  white  onions.  Cut  stem  end 
in  two  a  little  above  the  middle  of  onion.  Season  to  taste. 
Bake  with  little  water  in  pan.  When  tender  remove  centers, 
fill  with  dressing  made  of  dry  bread  crumbs,  chopped  meat, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  moisten  with  sweet  cream  and  one 
beaten  egg.  On  top  of  each  put  small  pieces  of  butter.  Return 


396  THE  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 

to  oven  and  brown  nicely.  Serve  hot  on  individual  plates  gar- 
nished with  lettuce  leaf  and  olives. — Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

STUFFED  ONIOXS". 

Select  large  onions,  peel,  parboil,  remove  heart  and  fill 
with  equal  parts  moistened  bread  crumbs,  chopped  cold  beef 
or  chicken,  season  well,  put  in  buttered  baking  dish,  then  cover. 
Bake  one  hour. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Irwine,  Williams,  Ariz. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Cut  top  off  pepper,  take  out  seed  and  white  membrane  with 
sharp  knife.  Soak  over  night  in  salt  water.  For  one-half 
dozen  peppers,  two  cupfuls  minced  veal,  beef  or  ham  or  a 
combination  of  all  three,  one  cup  mashed  potatoes  or  rice. 
Season  with  salt  and  butter.  Bind  together  with  cream  or 
rich  stock.  Fill  peppers  with  the  mixture  and  place  on  end  in 
baking  dish  with  enough  hot  water  to  prevent  burning.  Cover 
closely  and  bake  thirty  minutes.  Transfer  to  a  hot  dish  and 
serve  with  following  sauce :  Two  cups  stock,  one  onion,  a 
little  minced  parsley,  one  cup  tomatoes,  salt,  two  tablespoons 
butter  creamed  with  two  tablespoons  flour.  Cook  gently  until 
smooth. — Mrs.  G.  H.  Barney,  Williams,  Ariz. 

STUFFED  BELL  PEPPERS. 

If  the  peppers  are  too  old  and  hot  soak  in.  salt  and  water. 
Remove  stem  end,  taking  out  the  seeds  and  pulp.  Stuff  with 
chopped  ham,  tongue,  corn  beef  or  any  remnant  of  meat,  sea- 
son with  grated  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  moisten  with  sweet 
cream,  or  butter  and  milk;  put  bread  crumbs,  and  a  piece  of 
butter  on  the  top  of  each.  Put  in  a  tin  basin  with  a  little 
water,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  until  thoroughly  heated.  Serve 
hot  on  a  piece  of  lettuce.  The  peppers  are  excellent  stuffed 
with  chicken  and  canned  corn  or  peas  seasoned  to  taste,  using 
a  well  beaten  egg  to  moisten. — Mrs.  \Vm.  F.  Dermont,  Wil- 
liams, Ariz. 

STUFFED  BELJj  PEPPERS. 

Take  six  large  bell  peppers,  cut  off  tops,  remove  seeds  and 
fill  with  following:  One  cup  hot  boiled  rice,  three  cups  ham- 
burger, one  small  onion,  chopped  and  fried  in  butter.  Mix. 
season  and  fill  peppers,  place  in  pan  on  ends,  cover  with  tops, 
one  slice  bacon  and  pour  over  all  one  can  tomatoes,  bake  one 
and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.  Maude  Jones,  Williams,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  397 

STUFFED  BELlj  PEPPERS. 

One  onion  chopped  fine,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one-fourth 
cup  boiled  rice,  one  pound  hamburger  steak,  one  can  tomatoes, 
one-fourth  pound  bacon  sliced,  one  dozen  peppers.  Fry  onion 
in  the  butter,  add  rice  and  hamburger  steak  and  mix  all  to- 
gether. Stuff  peppers  with  this.  Place  in  covered  baking 
dish,  pour  tomatoes  over  them  and  lay  slices  of  bacon  on  top. 
Bake  in  slow  oven  for  three  hours. — Mrs.  Gadis,  Williams, 
Ariz. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

One  dozen  peppers,  take  off  the  cap  and  seed.  Scald, 
one-half  cup  of  bread,  soak  and  squeeze  dry,  one-half  onion, 
one  clove,  garlic,  one  cup  ham,  three  of  the  peppers  (minced 
fine),  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  paprika,  one-half 
teaspoon  pepper,  mix  all  together  and  stuff  the  peppers, 
pin  on  the  caps  and  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  tomato 
sauce.  Can  vary  the  above  by  using  one  cup  sliced  boiled  eggs. 
—Contributed,  Saginaw,  Mich. 

BAKED  STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Remove  the  top  and  scrape  the  inside  from  the  pepper.  Fill 
with  cold  boiled  rice  and  finely  chopped  boiled  ham  three- 
fourths  full,  moisten  with  butter  just  before  baking.  Add  a 
lump  of  butter,  a  few  cracker  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt.  Bake 
and  serve  hot. 

PARSNIPS. 

Clean  and  peel  medium  sized  parsnips,  cook  until  tender  in 
boiling  water.  Have  skillet  with  hot  butter  and  fry  parsnips 
brown.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BAKED  MASHED  POTATOES. 

Two  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter, 
two  eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt 
the  butter,  heat  the  milk  and  stir  both  in  the  mashed  potatoes. 
Add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  browned  on  top. — 
Mrs.  A.  Lebsch,  Williams,  Ariz. 

STUFFED  BAKED  POTATOES. 

Select  even,  good  sized  potatoes.  Bake  in  moderately  hot 
oven.  Remove  potato  carefully  from  the  shells,  mash,  sea- 
son with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  rich  sweet 
cream  and  beaten  egg.  Place  back  in  shells,  brush  beaten 
egg  over  top  and  set  in  the  oven  to  heat  and  brown.  Serve 
hot. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 


398  THE  ARIZONA  COOK  BOOK 

BAKED  STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Select  eight  smooth  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Wash,  pare 
and  soak  in  cold  water  to  cover  one-half  hour ;  drain,  put  in  a 
dripping-pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  turning  frequently.  Re- 
move from  oven,  cut  slice  from  top  of  each  and  scoop  out  the 
inside;  then  force  through  a  potato  ricer.  Add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
peper  and  a  few  gratings  of  nutmeg.  Set  on  range  and  beat 
two  minutes,  then  add  gradually  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Refill  shells  and  bake  five  to  eight  minutes  in  a  very  hot 
oven. 

POTATOES  EN  CASSEROLE. 

Cut  French  balls  from  pared,  raw  potatoes  or  slice  one-fourth 
inch  thick;  then  cut  each  slice  in  half.  Put  one-fourth  cupful 
of  butter  in  an  earthen  casserole  and  add  the  potatoes,  dusting 
with  a  rounding  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Shake  the  casserole  over 
the  fire  until  each  piece  is  coated  with  butter  and  salt;  then 
ad  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  or  clear  soup  stock. 
Cover  the  dish  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven.  Occasionally  lift 
the  potatoes  with  a  flat  bladed  knife  or  spatula  that  all  may 
evenly  cook.  At  the  end  of  forty-five  minutes  they  should  be 
tender  at  which  time  add  a  half  cupful  of  hot  cream,  a  dusting 
of  pepper  and  more  of  salt  if  necessary.  There  must  not  be 
too  much  liquid  in  the  dish,  just  enough  to  have  the  potatoes 
moist. 

SWEET  POTATOES. 

First  boil  one-half  dozen,  then  peel,  and  put  in  pan  to  roast. 
Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  until  brown  in 
oven. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Smith,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SWEET  POTATOES  EN  CASSEROLE. 

Heat  the  casserole ;  then  add  one- fourth  cupful  grated  maple 
sugar  or  if  this  is  not  convenient  use  dark  brown  sugar,  and 
one-third  cupful  of  butter.  When  the  latter  is  melted,  add 
pared  and  sliced,  crosswise,  sweet  potatoes  to  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  dish ;  then  dust  with  salt  and  add  another  layer  of  pota- 
toes, having  them  rather  loosely  placed  on  the  others.  Pour 
over  this  half  a  cupful  of  boiling  hot  water,  cover  and  set  in  the 
hot  oven.  Cover  and  fifteen  minutes  after  cooking  lift  the 
lower  layer  to  the  top  so  the  upper  potatoes  may  cook  in  the 
syrup.  When  tender,  serve. 


WILLIAMS  PUBUC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  399 

BOSTON  BROWN  POTATOES. 

Wash,  dry  and  rub  well  with  butter  as  many  medium  sized 
potatoes  as  desired.  Bake.  When  soft,  cut  piece  off  flat  side, 
scoop  out  potato,  mash  until  very  light.  Place  in  shells  and 
return  to  oven  to  brown.  Do  not  replace  piece  you  cut  off 
side.— Mrs.  R.  S.  Teeple,  H.olbrook,  Ariz. 

HASHED  BROWN  POTATOES. 

To  one  quart  of  chopped  potatoes  try  out  one-half  cup  of 
salt  pork,  cut  in  dice,  after  it  is  brown  and  crisp  'add  the  pota- 
toes. Put  in  frying  pan  and  let  brown  on  one  side  as  for  an 
omelet.  Turn  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  S.  Babcock,  Manistee, 
Mich. 

POTATO  ROLLS. 

Mix  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  cold  mashed  potatoes,  three- 
fourths  cup  lard,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one-fourth  cup  sugar, 
one  scant  teaspoon  salt,  add  one  cup  milk  and  one  cake  com- 
pound yeast  in  one-half  cup  warm  water.  Rise  for  an  hour 
or  two.  Add  five  or  six  cups  flour,  make  into  a  dough  and 
rise  again.  Shape  into  rolls.  Let  rise  and  bake. — Mrs.  K.  W. 
Williams,  Cynthiana,  Ky. 

POTATOES  AU   GRATHST. 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes,  make  a  cream  sauce  of  butter, 
flour,  salt  and  pepper.  When  smooth  add  potatoes.  Let  heat 
through.  Put  into  buttered  individual  dishes,  fold  in  some 
chipped  cheese.  Bake  ten  minutes,  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs. 
Wm.  Mclntyre,  Phoenix,  Ariz. 

POTATOES  AU   GRATIN. 

Bake  large  potatoes ;  when  done,  cut  in  two  lengthwise,  re- 
move the  inside,  mash  and  mix  with  butter,  salt,  a  little  cream 
and  grated  cheese.  Put  in  the  potato  shells,  cover  with  grated 
cheese  and  return  to  oven  until  brown. — Mrs.  Lloyd,  Sedro 
Woolley,  Wash. 

POTATO  SOUFFLE  WITH  MEAT. 

Boil  four  good  sized  potatoes,  then  pass  them  through  a 
ricer.  Add  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  tablespoon  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
beaten  thoroughly,  then  add  the  whites,  which  have  been  pre- 
viously beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  ready  a  well-buttered  bake 
dish,  put  into  it  half  of  the  potato  mixture,  then  add  a  layer 
of  minced  ham,  then  the  remainder  of  the  potato  mixture. 


400  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

Spread  butter  over  the  top  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
hot  in  the  bake  dish. — Mrs.  Guss  Dillman,  San  Francisco  Peaks, 
Ariz. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

(Irish  potatoes.)  Peel,  slice  and  put  in  pan,  cover  with 
sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  b.utter,  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Put  in  oven  and  cover.  Roast  until  done. — Mrs.  J.  W. 
Smith,  Williams,  Ariz. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

On  the  bottom  of  bake  dish  put  a  layer  of  sliced — cooked  or 
raw — potatoes,  then  very  little  seasoned  cracker  crumbs.  Pour 
over  this  some  milk  in  which  one  egg  has  been  beaten  and  some 
small  pieces  of  butter  alternately,  filling  up  the  dish  in  this 
way.  On  the  top  put  thin  layer  of  moistened  cracker  crumbs. 
Bake  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour.  Serve  hot.  Chopped 
green  pepper  adds  to  the  flavor. — Airs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

BOILED  RICE. 

Cook  in  double  boiler  with  water  enough  to  cover.  When 
puffed  up,  add  sweet  milk  and  finish  cooking.  Served  hot  with 
cream,  sugar  and  nutmeg  sauce.  If  any  should  be  left,  use  it 
next  day  in  a  pudding  or  in  soup. — Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Dermont, 
Williams,  Ariz. 

SPIXACH. 

Tate  three  slices  of  bacon,  put  in  kettle,  let  fry  brown,  put 
spinach  into  the  hot  kettle,  one  cup  of  water,  or  just  enough 
to  keep  it  from  burning, 'cover  tightly  and  let  simmer  until 
tender.— Mrs.  Ed  Du  Boise,  Terlock,  Calif. 

ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI. 

One-fourth  pound  bacon  diced,  one  onion  cut  fine,  one  and 
one-half  pounds  hamburger  steak,  one-fourth  pound  spaghetti, 
one  tablespoon  chili,  one  can  tomatoes.  Fry  bacon,  ad4 
onion  and  fry  until  slightly  browned,  then  add  hamburger 
steak  and  fry  until  thoroughly  cooked.  Boil  spaghetti  and 
drain  off  all  water.  Mix  all  together  and  season  to  taste.  Pour 
one  can  tomatoes  over  this.  Bake  in  covered  pan  for  two 
hours. — Mrs.  Ritter,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BRUSSEL   SPROUTS. 

As  a  vegetable,  trummed,  thoroughly  washed,  thrown  into 
boiling  water  and  salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  common  washing 
soda.  Drain.  Boil  in  a  saucepan  with  the  lid  off  about  fifteen 
minutes,  then  turned  through  a  colander  and  drain.  Serve  with 
butter  sauce  or  mayonnaise. — Contributed. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  4Q1 

HUBBARD  SQUASH  EN  CASSEROLE. 

Pare  the  vegetable,  then  cut  into  small  cubes  and  place  in  a 
buttered  casserole  with  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  half 
tablesponful  of  salt,  cover  and  bake  three  hours  or  less  if  the 
vegetable  is  tender.  When  done  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  return  to  the  oven  until  melted ;  then  whip  with  a  fork 
until  fine  and  light,  adding  enough  hot  cream  to  moisten.  Serve 
in  the  casserole. 

STUFFED    SQUASH. 

One  cup  raw  chopped  beef,  one  cup  boiled  rice,  one  large 
onion  fried  in  butter  until  a  light  yellow,  add  beef  and  rice 
while  hot,  season  to  taste.  Take  yellow  squash,  peel  and  cut 
off  top,  take  out  and  fill  with  dressing  and  cook  until  tender. 
Lay  strips  of  bacon  and  tomatoes  in  pan  with  squash. — Mrs. 
J.  S.  Irwine,  Williams,  Ariz. 

BAKED    SQUASH. 

Cut  Hubbard  squash  into  pieces  large  enough  for  each  indi- 
vidual. Bake  pieces  in  pan,  season  with  pieces  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  If  any  remains,  make  it  into  a  pie  for  the  next  day. 
—Mrs.  Dermont,  Williams,  Ariz. 

STUFFED    BAKED    TOMATOES. 

Select  even,  good  sized  tomatoes.  Do  not  remove  the  skin. 
Stuff  with  seasoned  bread  crumbs,  chopped  cabbage,  onion 
and  celery,  moistened  with  cream  and  beaten  egg,  pepper  and 
salt.  Bake  about  ten  minutes  or  long  enough  to  keep  the  to- 
mato from  falling.  Serve  hot  on  a  lettuce  leaf. — Miss  Char- 
lotte Wickstrom,  Hartford,  Conn. 

FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Peel  carefully  nice,  round  tomatoes,  cut  in  half  and  dip  in 
corn  meal.  Fry  until  nicely  browned  in  hot  salad  oil.  Make 
a  thickened  milk  gravy,  and  pour  over  them,  arranging  in  dish 
from  which  they  are  to  be  served. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Dennis,  San 
Jose,  Calif. 

GREEN   TOMATOES   FRIED. 

Select  six  large  tomatoes,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  slice 
pretty  thick,  dip  in  egg  and  crackers,  fry  over  a  quick  fire  until 
a  light  brown. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Irwine.  Williams,  Ariz. 

FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Slice  ripe  tomatoes.  Roll  in  flour  with  one  teaspoon  sugar. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fry  in  hot  butter, — Mrs:  M.  I.  Ern, 
Williams,  Ariz. 


402  THE    ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 

TOMATOES  FARCIA. 

Remove  the  inside  from  six  large  tomatoes.  Fill  wtih  two 
slices  bread  (soaked),  some  cold  meat,  a  bit  of  garlic  and  a 
little  onion,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  through  meat  chop- 
per, add  one  tablespoon  each  melted  butter  and  olive  oil,  one 
well-beaten  egg.  Put  in  tomato  shells.  Cover  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  one-half  hour. — Miss  Parker,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif. 

TOMATOES  AND  ONIONS. 

Four  large  onions  sliced  and  boiled  tender  in  as  little  water 
as  possible.  Peel  and  add  to  onions  one  can  tomatoes,  five 
green  bell  peppers  sliced,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  half  tea- 
spoon soda,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  until  all  are  tender  and 
serve  hot. — Mrs.  Ed  Du  Boise,  Turlock,  Calif. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 

One  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  two  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  one-half 
pint  of  rich  cream,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  When  cooked, 
pour  over  small  squares  of  toasted  bread. — Mrs.  A.  V.  Wag- 
ner, Williams,  .Ariz. 

JELLIED   VEGETABLES. 

Soak  two  level  tablespoons  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold 
water;  add  one-half  cup  of  vinegar,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one 
pint  boiling  water,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  salt. 
Strain  and  when  beginning  to  set  add  two  cups  celery  cut  in 
small  pieces,  one  cup  chopped  cabbage,  and  one  red  pepper 
chopped.  Turn  into  mould  and  chill.  Other  combinations  are 
made  with  French  peas,  cucumbers,  nuts,  etc. — Mrs.  C.  F. 
Philbrook,  Bisbee,  Ariz. 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  403 


404  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


INDEX 


Page 

BEVERAGES 13 

Chocolate 13 

Coffee 13 

Coffee,    Iced 13 

EggrNog,  A  Cocoa 13 

Egg-Nog,    Fruit 13 

Grape  Juice,  Unfermented.  14 

Jardinere,    Pineapple 14 

Lemonade    14 

Lemonade,  Strawberry.  ...  14 

Pineapple  Cup 14 

Punch 14 

Punch,   (for  40  people)  ...  15 

Punch,    Fruit 15 

Punch,  Fruit    (for  6  gals.)  15 

Punch,    Hallowe'en 15 

Punch,  Plain 15 

Punch,    Presbyterian 15 

Tea 16 

Tea,    Iced 16 


BREAD 
Yeast  . 
Yeast, 
Bread 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Bread, 
Salt 
Bread, 
Bread, 


18 

18 

For  Bread 19 

19 

Quick  Way 19 

Brown 19 

Boston  Brown 19 

Real  Boston  Brown  21 

Sour  Milk  Brown.  .  21 

Steamed  Brown...  21 

Dutch 21 

Graham,  One-Loaf.  21 

Graham    21 

Nut 22 

Nut  No.    1 22 

Nut  No.    2 22 

Nut  Loaf 23 

Quick  Nut 23 

Oat  Meal 23 

Rye    23 

Salt  Rising 24 

Grandmot  her's 

Rising 24 

Swedish  Rye 24 

Wholewheat 24 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 2,8 

Apples,  Baked 28 

Apples,  Fried 29 

Apples,  Stuffed 30 

Biscuits,  Sour  Cream 28 

Biscuits,  Shredded  Wheat.  28 


Page 

Breakfast  Dishes — Continued. 
Biscuits,    Shredded    Wheat 

with  Strawberries 28 

Biscuits,  Tea    29 

Biscuits,  Beaten    30 

Biscuits,  Buttermilk 30 

Biscuits,  Drop    30 

Biscuits,  Graham    30 

Buns,  Plain 29 

Buns,  Spanish    29 

Corn  Cakes 80 

Corn  Bread    31 

Coffee  Cake,  Dutch    31 

Coffee  Cake,  German     ....  31 

Cakes,  Johhny 32 

Cakes,  Griddle 32 

Cakes,  Bread   Griddle    ....  32 

Cakes,  Hot    (for   two) 32 

Ginger  Bread 32 

Fritters,  Corn  Meal 32 

Gems,  English 33 

Gems,  Graham    33 

Gems,  Graham    33 

"Jolly  Boys" 33 

Sally, Lunn  (with  yeast)...  33 

SallyLunn 33 

Sally  Lunn  (with  yeast  and 

eggs) 34 

Muffins 34 

Muffins 34 

Muffins,  Graham    34 

Muffins,  Breakfast    34 

Muffins,  Ham    34 

Muffins,  One  Egg 35 

Muffins,  Rice    35 

Puffs  or  Pop-Over 35 

Pop-Overs 36 

Pop-Overs  or  Muffins 36 

Potato  Pancakes 36 

Rolls 36 

Rolls,  Cinnamon    37 

Rolls,  Dinner 37 

Rolls,  Egg    38 

Rolls,  French    38 

Rolls,  Southern    38 

Rolls,  Squash 38 

Rusk,  Sour  Milk   39 

Rusk,  Swedish  Sugar 39 

Scones,   Scotch    39 

Toast,  Egg 39 

Toast,  Vienna 39 

Waffles '.  .  .  .  .  40 

Waffles,    Crisp    40 

Puffs    .  .40 


406 


INDEX 


Page 

CAKES 44 

Cake,  To  Bake 44 

Cake,  Altitude 44 

Cake,  High   Altitude 45 

Cake,  Angel 45 

Cake,  Angel   Food 46 

Cake,  Apple  Sauce 46 

Cake,  Dried  Apple 47 

Cake,  Boiled    47 

Cake,  Brown    47 

Cake,  Caramel 47 

Filling    for    48 

Cake,  Without  Eggs    48 

Cake,  Devil's      Food,       (or 

Chocolate   Loaf)    48 

Cake,  Chocolate    48 

Cake,  Black  Chocolate  ....  49 
Cake,  The    President's 

Christmas  . .  .- 49 

Cake,  Mrs.     Ergmann,     Jr., 

Chocolate  Layer 50 

Icing  for  Cake 50 

Cake,  Rich  Chocolate   ....  50 

Cake,  Stirred  Chocolate...  50 
Cake,  Chocolate  Marsh- 

mallow 50 

Cake,  Cocoa 51 

Cake,  Quick  Coffee 51 

Cake,  Coffee    51 

Cake,  Coffee  (withouteggs)  51 
Cake,  Baking  Powder  Cof- 
fee    51 

Cake,  Cream    52 

Cake,  Corn  Starch 52 

Cake,  Delicate 52 

Cake,  Delicious 52 

Cake,  Devil's   Food    ~53 

Cake,  Deviled    53 

Cake,  Devil's    53 

Devil's  Food 54 

Farina  Torte 54 

Cake,  Fruit    54 

Cake,  Everyday  Fruit   ....  56 

Cake,  Excellent   Fruit   ....  56 

Cake,  Plain    Fruit    56 

Cake,  Eggless  Fruit 56 

Cake,  White  Fruit 57 

Cake,  Fudge     57 

Fudge  Icing    58 

Cake,  Garden 58 

Cake,  Ginger 58 

Cake,  Harlequin    59 

Cake,  Hickory  Nut 59 

Himmel  Flutes 59 

Cake,  Ice  Cream    59 

Frosting  for  above 59 

Cake,  Jam    60 


Page 
Cakes — Continued. 

Cake,  Blackberry  Jam  ....  60 

Jelly    Roll    60 

Cake,  Plain  Layer    61 

Icing  for  above 61 

Kartoffel  Torte 61 

Cake,  Layer 61 

Cake,  Lemon    61 

Cake,  Yellow  Loaf 62 

Cake,  Nut  Loaf 62 

Cake,  Lunch    62 

Cake,  Mahogany     62 

Filing  for  above 62 

Cake,  Marble 62 

Cake,  Marshmallow  63 

Filling  for  above 63 

Cake,  Minnehaha 63 

Cake,  One-Egg  Mocha 64 

Cake,  Molasses  64 

Filling  for  above 64 

Cake,  Molasses  Layer 64 

Cake,  Spiced  Molasses  ....  64 

Cake,  Rocky  Mountain  ...  64 

Cake,  Nut 65 

Cake,  One-Egg  65 

Cake,  One-two-three-four. .  66 

Cake,  Orange  Loaf 66 

Orange  Frosting 66 

Cake,  Plain  66 

Cake,  Potato  (Visolia). .  .  .  66 

Cake,  Potato  67 

Cake,  Potato  (Chocolate).  67 

Cake,  Carl's  Potato 67 

Cake,  Pound  68 

Cake,  Spice  68 

Cake,  Spice  Layer 69 

Cake,  Cream  Spice  69 

Cake,  Pork  69 

Cake,  Old  Southern  Pound  70 

Cake,  Pound  70 

Cake,  Prune 71 

Cake,  Snowball 71 

Cake,  Snow  71 

Cake,  A  Good  Sponge 71 

Cake,  Sponge  71 

Cake,  Sponge  (Fine)  72 

Cake,  Cream  Sponge 72 

Cake,  Hot  Water  Sponge..  72 

Cake,  Old  Phila.  Sponge..  73 
Cake,  Old  Fashioned  Sour 

Milk  73 

Cake,  Strawberry  73 

Cake,  Sunshine 73 

Cake,  Sunshine  Sponge....  74 

Cake,  Tea 74 

Cake,  White 75 

Cake,  English  Walnut  ....  75 

Cake,  White  Wedding  ....  75 


INDEX 


407 


Page 

SMALL,  CAKES 77 

Little  Fruit  Cakes 77 

Lemon  Cup  Cakes 77 

Luncheon   Cup   Cakes 77 

Delicious    Cakes,     or    Oat- 
meal Cookies    77 

Chocolate  Eclairs 78 

Lemon  Gem  Cakes 78 

Hermits    78 

How  to  Make  Kisses 79 

Macaroons 79 

Date  Macaroons 79 

Marguerites 80 

Rocks 80 

Russian   Rocks 81 

Sponge  Drop  Cakes 81 

Chocolate   Squares 81 

Nut  Wafers ,81 

CANDIES    87 

Nut  Balls 87 

Butter    Scotch    87 

Candy 87 

Chocolate   Popcorn   Ball?..  87 

Chocolate  Caramels 87 

Crackle 88 

Nut  and  Orange  Cream.  .  .  88 

Cream  Nut  Candy 88 

Walnut  Cream  Candy 88 

Cream  Peppermints £3 

Divinity    88 

Peppermint  Drops 89 

Stuffed  Figs    89 

Sea  Foam 89 

Ocean    Foam     90 

Fondant     90 

Chocolate  Fudge    90 

Burnt  Almond  Fudge  ....  90 

Maple  Fudge 91 

Sour  Cream  Fudge 91 

Marshmallows 91 

Nut  Foam  Chocolates 91 

Nut  Nougat 92 

Panoche 92 

Fluffy  Ruffles,  or  Divinity 

.      Fudge 92 

CHAFING  DISH 94 

Salted  Almonds    94 

Eggs  with   Asparagus 94 

Stewed  Reed  Birds 94 

Chicken    Croquettes    94 

Creamed    Chicken 94 

Stewed  Soft  Clams 95 

Eggs  with  Curry 95 

Eggs  with  Cheese 95 

Scrambled    Eggs  with 

Olives 95 

Frog  Saddles    95 


Page 
Chafing  Dish — Continued. 

Creamed  Halibut 95 

Lamb  Chops 96 

Lamb  or  Mutton  Curry.  .  .  96 

Lamb  with  Tomato 96 

Calf's  Liver  and  Bacon...  96 

Curried  Lobster 96 

Lobster  Patties 96 

Mushrooms  with  Bacon.  .  .  97 

Deviled   Meat    97 

Plain   Omelet    97 

Creamed  Oysters 97 

Stewed   Oysters    97 

Smothered    Oysters   in 

Chafing  Dish    98 

Creamed  Potatoes 98 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 98 

Welsh  Rarebit 98 

Rinktum  Ditty 99 

Pan  Roast 99 

Sardines  on  Toast 99 

Sweetbreads  with  Peas..  .  .  99 

Brook  Trout 99 

Rechauffe  of  Turkey 100 

Lobster  a  la  Newburgh.  .  .100 

CHEESE    102 

Baked  Cheese 102 

Baked  Swiss  Cheese 102 

Cheese  Balls 102 

Cottage  Cheese 102 

Cottage  Cheese  or  Schmier 

Kase    102 

Cottage  Cheese  Pie 102 

Cheese  Dreams 103 

Cheese  Straws 103 

Cheese  Souffle   103 

Cheese  Cakes,   For    104 

Potted  Cheese 104 

CONDIMENTS  .106 

Salted  Almonds 106 

Parsley  Butter 106 

Apple  Catsup  -.  .  .  .  106 

Grape  Catsup  . .  .' 106 

Oriental  Canapes 106 

Curry  Sauce  for  above.  .107 

Cheese  for  Canape  107 

Canapes 107 

Old  English  Recipe  for 

Mushroom  Catsup 107 

Ketchup  108 

Salted  Pecans 108 

Sunshine  Relish 108 

Cold  Relish 108 

Tomato  Relish  109 

Celery  Sauce 109 

Sauce  Tartare  .  . .109 


408 


INDEX 


Page 

COOKIES    112 

Australian  Date  Cakes,   or 

Cookies    112 

Cookies 112 

Cookies  without   Eggs....  112 

Almond  Cookies 113 

Chocolate  Cookies 113 

Chocolate  Drops    114 

Cream  Cookies 114 

English  Cookies 114 

Fruit  Cookies 114 

Ginger  Cookies   115 

Ginger  Snaps   115 

Hermit  Cookies 116 

Lemon  Cookies    116 

Molasses  Cookies 116 

Oatmeal  Cookies 116 

Oatmeal  Nut  Cookies 118 

Peanut  Cookies 118 

Plain  Cookies 119 

1831   Seed   Cookies 119 

Sour  Milk   Cookies 119 

Chocolate  Spice  Cookies..  .119 

Sugar  Cookies 120 

White  Cookies   120 

CROQUETTES 123 

Croquettes 123 

Beef  and  Rice  Croquettes. .  123 

Chicken   Croquettes    123 

Fish  Croquettes 124 

Meat  Croquettes 124 

Potato  Croquettes   124 

Sweet  Potatoes 124 

Salmon  Croquettes 124 

French  Potato  Croquettes.  125 

DESSERTS 127 

Ambrosia •  •  •  •  .127 

Imperial  Apples 127 

Apple  Snow  ., 127 

Blanc   Mange    128 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange.  ..128 

Baked  Bananas    128 

Banana  Snow 128 

Banana  Fritters 129 

Apple  Cream 129 

Apple  Cream,  Sour 129 

Barberry  Cream 129 

Orange  Cream   129 

Hungarian  Cream 130 

Marshmallow  Cream 130 

Spanish  Cream 130 

Sponge  Cream    ...... 130 

Strawberry  Cream 131 

Tapioca  Cream 131 

Cream  Caramel    131 

Italian  Cream 131 

Baked  Custard   .  ..131 


Page 

Desserts — Continued. 

Boiled   Custard 132 

Baked  Chocolate  Custard.  132 
French  Cocoanut  Custard.  132 

Delicious  Custard    132 

Maple   Custard 132 

Caramel  Custard   132 

Sauce  for  Custard 133 

Plain  Custard 133 

Baked  Peach  Dumpling. ..  133 

Fruit  Dumpling 133 

Apple  Dumplings 134 

Delicious   Dessert,   A 134 

Elizabeth  Dessert    134 

Simple  Dessert,  A 135 

Nettie's  Dessert   135 

Strawberry  Fluff 135 

Raspberry  Flummery   ....  135 

Peach  Frappe 135 

Fruit   Jello    136 

Lemon  Oval    136 

Charlotte  Russe 136 

Strawberry  Shortcake  ....  137 

Strawberry  Sponge    137 

Custard  Souffle    138 

Sauce   for  above 138 

Peaches  and  Cream 138 

Cream  Puffs 138 

Cream   Filling    138 

Pineapple  Sponge    139 

Custard  Souffle   140 

Prune  Souffle 140 

Prune  Whip    140 

DIET    141 

DOUGHNUTS 148 

Doughnuts  or  Fried  Cakes.  148 

Doughnuts 148 

Raised  Doughnuts 149 

Fried  Cakes 151 

Snow  Balls   151 

DUMPLINGS    153 

Drop  Dumplings 153 

Egg  Dumplings    153 

Delicious    Dumplings    for 

Meat 153 

Potato  Dumplings 153 

Sour   Milk    Dumplings    for 

Chicken    154 

Noodles  for  Soup 154 

EGGS    156 

Eggs  a  la  Golden   Rod...  157 

Eggs  a  la  Tripe 157 

Baked  Eggs 158 

Breakfast   Dish    158 

Buttered    Eggs    with    To- 
matoes    158 

Curried   Eggs 158 


INDEX 


409 


Page 
Eggs — Continued. 

Dainty  Eggs    158 

Chile    Eggs    158 

Creamed  Eggs    159 

Eggs  in  Mayonnaise 159 

Eggs  in  White  Sauce 159 

Spanish  Eggs  for  One  Per- 
son     159 

Baksd  Omelet 159 

Egg   Omelet    160 

Omelette    160 

Cheese  Omelette 160 

Caviar  with  Egg    160 

Eggs  Stuffed  with  Caviar.  160 

FISH 162 

Fish  Balls 162 

Fish  Cakes  162 

Baked  White  Fish 163 

Dressing  for  Fish 163 

Baked  Fish 163 

Stuffing  for  Baked  Fish.  .163 
Baked  Fish,  French  Style.  163 

French  Baked  Fish 163 

Plain  Baked  Fish 164 

Baked  Fish  with  Tomatoes.  164 

Boiled  Fish 164 

Boiled  Fish  with  Sauce.  .  .164 

Broiled  Fish 165 

Fish  Ramekins 165 

Fish  Turbot  165 

Fish  Pudding 165 

Codfish  a  la  Barguaise.  .  .166 
Codfish  and  Macaroni.  .  .  .166 

Cod  Pie  166 

Frog  Legs 166 

Grayling  166 

Boiled  Halibut 166 

Baked  Lobster  167 

Lobster  Croquettes  167 

Grilled  Lobster 167 

Scalloped  Lobsters 167 

Canned  Salmon,  One  Way 

to  Use  167 

Creamed  Salmon  Baked  in 

Shells  167 

Escallop  Salmon  168 

Salmon  Loaf 168 

Salmon  Pudding  169 

Salmon  Puffs 169 

Scalloped  Salmon 169 

Ramekin  Salmon 169 

Baked  Shrimp  169 

French  Peas  and  Shrimp 

in  White  Sauce 170 

Brook  Trout  170 

Frying  Trout,  Directions 

for    .  . .170 


Page 

GAME    172 

Roast  Wild  Goose  or  Tur- 
key     172 

Stewed  Duck,  Goose,  Rab- 
bit,   Quail    or    Turkey — 

Camp  Style 172 

Rabbitt   Pie    172 

To     Roast    Snipes,     Wood- 
cocks or  Plovers 172 

Venison  with  Chile 172 

Saddle  of  Venison 173 

Venison    Puffs    . 173 

Broiled  Venison  Steak.  .  .  .173 

ICES,    SHERBETS    AND 

FROZEN  DESSERTS..  .175 

Apricot  Ice 175 

Lemon  Water  Ice 175 

Lemon  Ice  175 

Orange  Ice 175 

Frozen  Cheese  Balls  with 

Figs 175 

Pineapple  Ice 176 

Pineapple  Bisque 176 

Raspberry  Ice  176 

Three  Fruit  Ice 176 

Herbert's  Fruit  Ice 176 

Cream  Sherbet 176 

Cranberry  Sherbet  176 

Lemon  Sherbet 177 

Milk  Sherbet 177 

Orange  Sherbet  177 

Pineapple  Sherbet 177 

Strawberry  Sherbet 178 

Fruit  Mousse  178 

Maple  Mousse 178 

Pineapple  Mousse 178 

Frozen  Peaches  179 

Frozen  Rice  179 

Ice  Cream 179 

Hot  Chocolate  Sauce  for 

Ice  Cream 179 

Cherry  Ice  Cream,  No.  1.  .179 

Maple  Ice  Cream 179 

Maple  Ice  Cream  (For  a 

two-quart  freezer) 180 

Moonshine  180 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream.  .  .  .180 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream 180 

Maple  Parf ait  181 

Raspberry  Parfait 181 

ICINGS    186 

Boiled  Icing    186 

Caramel  Cake  Frosting.  ..  186 

Caramel  Icing    186 

Caramel  for  Cake 186 

Light  Chocolate   Frosting.  186 
Chocolate  Icing 186 


410 


INDEX 


Page 
Icings — Continued. 

Cocoa  Filling   186 

Caramel  Frosting 187 

Divinity  Fruit  Icing 187 

Dressing  for  Cake  and 

Short  Cake 187 

Fudge  Frosting    187 

Lemon  Honey 187 

Maple   Icing    187 

Maple  Filling 187 

Boiled  Frosting    188 

Icing    188 

Marshmallow  Frosting  ...188 

Mocha  Filling 188 

Uncooked  Icing 188 

Strawberry  Icing 188 

Tutti  Frutti  Cake  Filling.  .189 
White   Icing    189 

DIET  FOR  TYPHOID  CON- 
VALESCENTS     192 

DISHES  INVALIDS  WILL 

ENJOY     193 

Apples  in  Grape  Juice.  .  .  .193 

Barleyade  and  Jelly 193 

Scraped   Beefsteak    193 

Clam  Broth    194 

Maple   Cup   Custard 194 

Dates   with   Cream 194 

Gruel 194 

Beef  Juice 195 

Scalloped   Oysters 195 

Cream  Punch 195 

Tapioca  Pudding 195 

Raw    Beef    Sandwich 195 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup.  .  .  .196 

Tomato  Soup    196 

Beef  Tea    196 

Albumen  Water 197 

JAMS   AND    JELLIES 199 

Grape  Conserve 199 

Plum  Conserve 199 

Matrimonial   Jam    199 

Currant  and  Orange  Jam.  199 
Orange  -  Currant  -  Raisin 

Jam   199 

Grape  Marmalade 199 

Orange  Marmalade 200 

Pineapple  Marmalade  .  .  .  .201 

Preserved  Tomatoes 201 

Fine  Jelly 201 

Apples  in  Jelly 202 

Cherry  Jelly   202 

Cranberry  Jelly    202 

Grape  Jelly 202 

Lemon  Jelly   202 

Mint  Jelly 202 


Page 
Jams  and  Jellies — Continued. 

Tomato   Jelly    203 

Spiced  Green  Grape  Jelly, 
(To  serve  with  Meat)  .  .203 

MEATS 205 

Bacon  Cooked  in  Oven... 205 

Scrambled   Brains    205 

Calf's   Brains    206 

Beef  a  la  Mode 206 

Beef  Loaf    206 

Beefsteak,  Thick 207 

Smothered    Beeftseak    and 

Vegetables 207 

Spanish    Beefsteak    207 

Brown  Ribs  of  Beef 207 

Roast     Beef     with     York- 
shire Pudding 208 

Delicious  Roast  Beef 208 

Yorkshire  Pudding    208 

Cannibal    208 

Chili   Con   Game 208 

Veal  Cutlets    209 

Boiled    Beef  Flank 209 

Boiled  Ham    209 

Delicate  Ham 209 

Molded   Ham    209 

Baked  Hash    210 

Baked   Heart    210 

Stuffed  Heart 210 

Liver,   German  Style 210 

Calf's  Liver 211 

Lamb  Fries 211 

Baked  Leg  of  Lamb 211 

Lamb  Piquant 211 

Flavoring  for  Lamb 211 

Stewed  Kidneys 212 

Ham  Puff 212 

Thanksgiving  Mince  Meat.  212 

Mince  Meat 213 

Mince  Meat,   Recipe  for..  214 

Roast   Mutton -214 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton 214 

Imitation    of    Barbecue    of 
Mutton    214 

Pepper  Pot 215 

Chicken  Pie    215 

Roast  Young  Pig 215^ 

Porterhouse     Steak     and 

Mushrooms 216 

Roast  Loin  of  Pork 216 

Scrapple,    Recipe  for 216 

Baked   Pig's   Shoulder ....  216 

Rib  Roast  Stuffed 217 

Pork   Tenderloin   Roast... 217 

Indian   Stew    217 

Irish  Stew 217 

Mershon  Woods  Stew.  .    .  .218 


INDEX 


411 


Page 
Meats — Continued. 

Creamed  Sweetbreads  ..  .  .219 
Sweetbreads  and  M  u  s  h- 

rooms   219 

Sweetbreads    219 

Sweetbreads   and    Bacon.. 220 

Sausage   Rolls 220 

Tamale  Pie    220 

Escalloped  Tongue 220 

Spanish  Tongue 221 

Mock  Turtle 221 

Veal  Loaf 221 

Veal  with  Asparagus    .  .  .  .222 

Veal   Sausage 222 

Veal  Stew    222 

Veal  Terrapin 222 

Pressed  Veal 222 

Veal    Pie 223 

MEAT  SAUCES 229 

Anchovy  Sauce 229 

Butter  Sauce  for  Boiled 

Fish  229 

Black  Butter  Sauce 229 

Melted  Butter  Sauce 229 

Caper  Sauce  229 

Caper  Sauce  for  Fish 229 

Caviar  on  Toast  with 

Olives 229 

Canapes  of  Caviar 230 

Egg  Sauce  230 

Cranberry  Sauce  230 

Curry  Sauce  230 

Cream  Sauce  for  Fish.  .  .  .230 

Cucumber  Sauce 230 

Giblet  Sauce 231 

Horseradish  Sauce 231 

Hollandaise  Sauce 231 

Mayonnaise  Sauce  for  Fish.231 

Mint  Sauce  231 

Mushroom  Sauce  231 

Onion  Sauce  232 

Oyster  Sauce 232 

Parsley  Sauce 232 

Sage  Sauce  232 

Tartar  Sauce 232 

Tomato  Sauce 23.2 

Tomato  Sauce  for  Fish...  ^2  32 

MENUS,  Luncheons,  Special 
Dinner  and  Table  Ar- 
rangements   234 

Menus 234 

Suggestions  for  January  .  .  234 
Suggestions  for  February  .  234 
Suggestions  for  March  ....234 

Suggestions  for  April 235 

Suggestions  for  May 235 

Suggestions  for  June  .....  235 
Suggestions  for  July 235 


Page 
Menus — Continued. 

Suggestions  for  August   Pic 

nic  Lunches    235 

School  Lunch  for  Children. 235 
Suggestions  for  Ladies' 

Lunch  in  October   235 

Suggestions  for    Old    Time 

Thanksgiving  Dinner    ..236 
Suggestions    for    Church     So- 
ciable Supper  in  Decem- 
ber     236 

Veranda  Supper 236 

Picnic  Dinner  Lunches.  ..  236 
Sheep  or  Cow  Camp  Menu. .236 
The  Lunch  Basket  for  the 

Arizona   Cowboy    237 

Menu  from  Canned  Foods. 237 
Emergency  Menu  of 

Canned   Foods    237 

Camp    Dinner 237 

Meals   for   One   Day 237 

Meals  for  Monday     237 

Meals  for  Tuesday    238 

Meals  for  Wednesday     ....238 

Meals  for  Thursday    238 

Meals  for  Friday     239 

Meals  for  Saturday 239 

Meals  for  Sunday   239 

Autumn   Menus    '.  .  240 

Spring  Menus 241 

Summed  Menus 241 

Winter   Menus    242 

A  Thanksgiving  Dinner.  .  .242 

Merry  Christmas 242 

Christmas  Dinner    243 

New  Year's  Day 243 

A  Happy  New  Year 243 

Fourth  of  July  Menu 243 

Dinner  Table  Arrange- 

ments 244 

Dinners    244 

A    Dinner    Party   to    Eight 
Ladies   Seventy   Years 

"Young"     245 

Dinner    245 

Easter  Luncheon 245 

Dinner    245 

Afternoon  Luncheons   .  .  .  .246 

Dutch  Lunch    247 

Thangsgiving  Lunchoens.  .  247 
Luncheon  to  Girl  Friends.  248 

Fish  Luncheon 248 

Boy's  Birthday  Party. ...  .248 

SPECIAL  MENUS 249 

Dinner  in  Courses 249 

Breakfast,  April  First.... 249 
St.  Patrick's  Day  Dinner.  .249 
St.  Valentine's  Dinner  .  .  .249 


412 


INDEX 


Page 
Special  Menus — Continued. 

Hallowe'en  Supper    249 

Hallowe'en  Dinner 249 

Quantities  of  Refreshment 
for  Serving  50  People.. 250 

RECIPE   FOR   COOKING 

HUSBANDS    253 

MISCELLANEOUS    254 

For  Rattlesnake  Bite 254 

The  Bug  Remedy 254 

Necessities 254 

The  Douglass  Mixture.  .  .  .254 

Sure  Death  to  Flies 254 

For  Moths 254 

To    Set    Color    in    Summer 

Dresses    255 

Hand  Lotion 255 

Hair  Tonic    .255 

Care  of  Children's  Teeth.  .  255 

Curry   Powder    256 

To  Keep  Needles 256 

Remedy  for  Small-pox  and 

Scarlet  Fever   256 

To  Take  Spots  Out  of  Wool 

Cloth 256 

Recipe    for    Removing 

Grease   Spots    256 

To*  Wash    Centerpiece.  .  .  .257 
To  Take  Iron  Rust  Out  of 

Linen    257 

To  Wash  Point  Lace,  Tat- 
ting or  any.  Doily  with 

Lace  Edge 257 

To  Wash  Bedding,  or  Over- 
alls, or  Heavy  Garment.258 

OYSTERS    260 

Oysters    a    1' Ambrosia.  .  .  .260 

Oysters  in  Blankets 260 

Oyster  Cocktail    260 

Creamed  Oysters  on  Toast..261 
White  Sauce  for  above.. 261 

Oyster  Dariols 262 

Fried   Oysters    262 

Oysters  Served  in  Ice 262 

Kromeskies  of  Oysters.  .  .  .262 

Mock   Oysters 263 

Oyster  Omelet    263 

Oysters  for  Patties 263 

Oyster  Pattie   Filling 263 

Oyster  Patties 264 

Oyster  Pie '.  .264 

Shredded  Wheat,  Oyster, 
Meat  or  Vegetable  Pat- 
ties   264 

Scrambled  Oysters 265 

Scalloped   Oysters    265 

Oysters  in  Their  Shells...  265 


Page 

PASTRY  AND   PIES    267 

Cherry  Tarts 265 

Cheese  Tarts 268 

Date   Tarts    268 

Cinnamon  Tarts 268 

Quick  Puff  Paste    268 

Pie  Crust 268 

Never  Fail  Pie  Crust 269 

Open  Apple  Pie 269 

En-glish  Apple  Pie 269 

Sliced  Apple  Pie   270 

Banana  Pie 270 

Cheese  Pie    270 

Chocolate  Pie 270 

Cocoanut  Pie    271 

Cranberry   Pie    271 

How  to  Make  Cream  Puffs.i'T^ 

Cream  Pie 272 

German    Cream    Pie 273 

Strawberry  Cream  Pie.  .  .  .273 

Sour  Cream  Pie 274 

Custard    Pie    274 

French  Pie    274 

Lemon  Fruit  Pie 274 

Filling  for  Lemon  Pie.  .  .  .274 

Lemon  Pie    274 

Ohio  Lemon  Pie 275 

Fig  Mince  Meat  Pie 276 

Mock   Mince  Pie 276 

Orange  Filling  for  Pie.  .  .  .276 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 276 

Prune  Pie    276 

Pumpkin  Pie    276 

Raisin  Pie 277 

Raisin  Cream  Pie 277 

Mrs.  E.  T.  Willard's  Squash 

Pie  without   Eggs    277 

Reliable  Mince  Pies 277 

PICKLES 282 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles.  282 

Stuffed  Cucumbers 282 

Fine  Crisp .  Pickles 282 

Sliced  Mixed  Cucumber 

Pickles 282 

Spiced  Currants 283 

Spiced  Gooseberries  283 

French  Pickles 283 

"Paste  for  Pickles 283 

Mixed  Fruit  Pickles 284 

Sweet  Mixed  Pickles 284 

Mustard  Pickles 284 

Pickled  Ripe  Olives 285 

Pickled  Watermelon  Rind. 285 

Tomato  Relish  .  . 285 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickles.  .  .  .285 
Sliced  Green  Tomato 

Pickles  286 

Raspberry  Vinegar  286 


INDEX 


413 


Page 

POULTRY 288 

Cream  Chicken 288 

Chicken  Creamed    288 

Creamed     Chicken     Filling 

for  Patties 288 

Creamed    Chicken    and 

Mushrooms 289 

Fried   Chicken    289 

Gravy  for  above 289 

Kentucky  Fried  Chicken.  .290 
Chicken  Maryland 291 

Corn  Fritters  for  above.  291 

Chicken  Patties    291 

Chicken   Pie    -.  291 

Pressed   Chicken    . 292 

Mayonnaise    Sauce    for 

Pressed  Chicken 293 

Chicken  Ramekins    293 

Roast  Spring  Chicken 293 

Smothered    Chicken    294 

Roast  Duck    with    Orange 

Juice 294 

Roast  Duck    294 

Wild  Duck  Stuffing 295 

Domestic  Duck  Stuffing.295 

Mexican  Tamales 295 

Squabs    295 

Fricasse   of  Turkey 295 

Mushroom    and    Oyster 

Stuffing  for  Turkey.  .  .  .296 
Roast  Spring  Turkey,  with 

Oyster  Sauce 296 

Roast    Turkey,    Stuffed  ...  296 

Gravy   with    Roast   Tur- 
key     296 

Creamed  Chicken  in  Maca- 
roni Mould .297 

Whole  Fowl    297 

PUDDINGS 300 

Angel  Pudding  300 

Apple  Pudding l.  .  300 

Banana  Pudding 300 

Batter  Pudding  300 

Black  Pudding  300 

Blackberry  Pudding 301 

Sauce  for  above 301 

Bread  Pudding  301 

Excellent  Bread  Pudding.  301 

Buckeye  Pudding  302 

Carrot  Pudding  302 

Cherry  Pudding 302 

Hot  Chocolate  Pudding. ..  303 
Chocolate  Pudding 303 

Sauce  for  above  303 

Cocoanut  Pudding  303 

Mrs.  Synimes'  Christmas 

Pudding 304 


Page 
Puddin-gs — Continued. 

Cocoanut  Pudding 304 

Sauce  for  above    304 

White    Corn    Starch    Pud- 
ding   ,304 

Cottage  Pudding   304 

Sauce  for  above    304 

Date  Pudding 305 

Light  Fruit  Pudding  ....305 
Steamed  Fig  Pudding  .  .  .  .306 

Graham  Pudding 306 

Harvard  Pudding 306 

Sterling  Sauce  for  above. 30 7 
Boiled   Indian    Pudding.  ..  307 
Indian    Baked    Pudding.  ..  307 
New   England    Baked    In- 
dian Pudding 307 

Marshmallow  Pudding   .  .  .  308 

Nesselrode   Pudding    308 

New  Pudding 308 

Delicious  Nut  Pudding..  .  .308 

Orange   Pudding    309 

Pineapple  Pudding 309 

Plum  Pudding   309 

Sauce   for  above    309 

English  Plum  Pudding.  ..  310 

Sauce  for  above    310 

Frozen  Plum  Pudding  and 

Sauce    310 

Good   Substitute   for  Plum 
Pudding 311 

Orange  Roily  Polly 311 

Potato  Pudding 311 

Prune  Pudding 311 

Puff  Puddin-g  . 311 

Quick  Puff  Pudding 312 

Rice  Pudding 312 

Creamed  Rice  Pudding..  312 

Apple  Sago  Pudding 312 

Snow  Pudding 313 

Sauce  for  above  313 

Suet  Pudding 313 

Suet  Pudding  314 

Sauce  for  above  314 

Sweet  Pudding 314 

Cherry  Tapioca  Pudding.  .315 
A  Good  Plum  Pudding.  ..  315 

PUDDING   SA-UCES    319 

Cherry  Pudding  Sauce 319 

Chocolate  Cream  Sauce.  .  .  319 

Creamy   Sauce    319 

Cold  Cream  Sauce 319 

Cold  Pudding  Sauce 320 

Orange  Cream  Sauce 320 

Orange  Sauce 320 


414 


INDEX 


Page 

Pudding  Sauces — Continued. 
Whipped  Cream  for  Deco- 
rating    320 

Foaming   Sauce    320 

Fruit   Sauce    321 

Hard    Sauce    321 

"Huntington  Sauce"    321 

Lemon  Sauce    321 

Maple  Syrup  Sauce 321 

Nutmeg   Sauce    321 

Strawberry  Sauce  for  Short 

cake    322 

Plain  Pudding  Sauce 322 

Pineapple  Sauce    322 

Sour  Sauce    : 322 

Strawberry  Sauce 322 

Sweet  Cider  Sauce 322 

Vinegar  Sauce    323 

SALADS  326 

Apple  Salad  326 

Apple,  Cress  and  Celery 

Salad  326 

Baked  Apple  Salad 327 

Asparagus  Salad  ....'....  327 

Banana  Salad  327 

Banana  and  Peanut  Salad. 327 

Bird's  Nest  Salad 327 

Cabbage  Salad  328 

Cabbage,  Celery  and  Nut 

Salad  328 

Celery  and  Cream  Cheese 

Salad  328 

Hot  Slaw  329 

Cherry  Salad  329 

Cheese  and  Lettuce  Salad.  329 

Chestnut  Salad  329 

Chicken  Salad  329 

Cold  Slaw  331 

Christmas  Salad  331 

.  Christmas  Salad,  A  Pretty.331 

Corn  Salad  332 

Cucumber  Boats  332 

Combination  Salad,  A....  332 

Delicate  Salad  332 

Stuffe'd  Egg  Salad 333 

Fancy  Salad  333 

Fish  and  Potato  Salad...  333 

French  Salad  333 

Fruit  Salad  333 

Fruit  and  Nut  Salad....  33  4 
Grape  Fruit  dnd  Cherry 

Sa!ad 334 

Herring  Salad  334 

Lettuce  Salad 334 

Lobster  Salad  334 

Asparagus  Salad  335 

Luncheon  Salad,  A 335 

Normandy  Salad  335 


Page 
Salads — Continued. 

Norwegian    Salad     335 

Nut  Salad    335 

Xut  and  Celery  Salad.... 336 
Apple  and  Nut  Salad....  336 
Orange  and  Date  Salad.  .  .336 
Pepper-Grape  Fruit  Salad. 336 
Olive  and  Potato  Salad.. 336 
Pepper  and  Grape  Fruit 

Salad    336 

Peach  Salad    336 

Pineapple    and    Banana 

Salad     337 

Poinsetta  Salad    337 

Potato  .Salad    337 

Hot  Potato   Salad 338 

German   Potato    Salad....  339 

A  Quick  Salad    339 

Salmon  Salad    339 

A    Simple    Salad    340 

A  Salmon  Salad 340 

Sardine    Salad    340 

Shrimps  in  Tomato  Cases.. 340 
Rice  and  Tomato  Salad..  340 

Tomato    Salad    341 

Tomato    Jelly   Salad 341 

Grover  Cleveland's  Tomato 

Salad    341 

•      Tomato  and  Banana  Salad. 341 

Vegetable    Salad    341 

Waldorf  Salad    342 

Walnut   Salad 342 

Cabbage  Walnut  Salad...  343 

SALAD   DRESSING    350 

My  Favorite   Salad   Dress- 
ing   350 

Salad  Dressing 350 

Cheese  Salad  Dressing.  ..  351 
Simple  Salad  Dressing.  ..  352 
Salad  Dressing  for  Fruit 

Salad     352 

Boiled    Salad    Dressing..  .  .353 

Boiled  Dressing    353 

Cooked  Salad  Dressin-g.  .  .  353 
Cream  Salad  Dressing.  ...  353 

French   Dressing    354 

Dressing  for  Tomato  Salad. 354 
Dressing  for  Lettuce  Sa'ad.354 
Dressing  for  Cold  Fish  or 

Crab  Salad    354 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  .  .  .  .354 
Mayonnaise,  How  to  Make.  3  5  5 
Real  Mayonnaise  Dressing.35G 
Never  Fail  Mayonnaise 

Dressing    356 

Sauce  for  Cold    Slaw 356 

French   Dressing    357 


INDEX 


415 


Page 

SANDWICHES 360 

Filling   for    Sandwiches.  ..  360 
Anchovy  Sandwiches    ....361 

Beet   Sandwiches 361 

Boston  Baked  Bean  Sand- 
wiches     361 

•  Celery   Sandwiches    361 

Cheese  Sandwiches 361 

Cheess   and   Pepper   Sand- 
wiches     361 

Cheese  and  Sardine  Sand- 
wiches     361 

Cheese  and    Olive  Sand- 

wiches    362 

Chicken  Sandwishes    362 

Club  House  Sandiwches. .  .  362 
Colonial  Culb   Sandwiches.362 
Cottage     Cheese    Sand- 
wiches     362 

Cucumber    and    Onion 

Sandwiches    362 

Dutch  Lunch  Sandwiches. .  362 
Egg    Salad    Sandwiches.  ..  363 

Egg   Sandwiches    363 

Fried    Egg    Sandwiches.  ..  363 
E  g  g     and     Olive     Sand- 
wiches     363 

Fish  and  Egg  Sandwiches.363 
Fish  and  Cucumber  Salad. 364 

Fruit    Sandwiches    364 

Fudge    Sandwiches    364 

Ham  Sandwiches 364 

Holiday  Sandwiches    364 

Hot  Sandwiches    364 

Hot   Ham   Sandwiches.  .  .  .365 

Jambon  Sandwiches    365 

Lettuce   Sandwiches    365 

Chicken  Liver  Sandwiches.365 

Lobster   Sandwiches    365 

Lunch    Sandwiches    365 

Montreax    Sandwiches, 

How   to    Make 366 

Mushroom    Sandwiches.  ..  366 
Nastrurtium  Sandwiches.  .  366 

Nut  Sandwiches 366 

Nut  Sandwiches,  Filling 

for   • 366 

Novelty  Sandwiches 366 

Oyster  Sandwiches    367 

Onion    Sandwiches    367 

Olive  Sandwiches 367 

Pimento  Filling  for  Sand- 
wiches   .  .  • 367 

Peanut  Sandwiches 367 

Pepper  Sandwiches 367 

Bell  Pepper   Sandwiches.  .  367 
Chopped    Pickle   Sand- 
wiches     368 


Page 
Sandwishes — Continued. 

Raisin   Sandwiches    368 

Salad    Sandwiches     368 

Sardine  Sandwiches    368 

Shrimp    Sandwiches    368 

Spanish  Sandwiches    368 

Tomato  Sandwiches 369 

Tomato   and    Onion    Sand- 
wiches     369 

Tomato   and   Nut   Sand- 

wiches    369 

Tongue  Sandwiches  ......  .369 

Tongue  and  Lemon  Sand- 
wiches     369 

Water    Cress    Salad    Sand- 
wiches     369 

SOUPS    371 

Barley  Soup    • 371 

Asparagus   Cream    Soup.  ..372 
Cream  of  Barley  Soup.  ...  372 

Bean  Soup 372 

Cream  of  Bean  Soup 372 

Red  Bean  Soup 372 

Beef  Broth    373 

Beef  Soup    373 

Good   Bouillon    373 

Croutons    373 

Imperial  Sticks  for  Soups.  373 

Chicken  Bouillon 373 

Jellied  Bouillon    373 

Celery   Broth    374 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup.  .  .  .374 

Chicken  Broth    374 

Chicken    Cream    Soup....  37  4 

Chicken  Soup 375 

Chili  Soup 375 

Clam  Chowder 375 

Puree  of  Clam 376 

Clear  Soup    376 

Consomme 376 

Consomme    Montmorency.  376 

Chicken  Consomme 377 

Consomme    of   Mutton.  ...  377 

Veal  Consomme 377 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 377 

Croutons    .  . 377 

Corn    Soup    .  .  .  .' 378 

Cream  of  Onion  Soup.... 378 
A  Nutritious  Cottage  Soup. 378 

Lent    Soup     379 

Mutton  Soup  . 379 

Onion  Soup 379 

Cream  of  Oyster  Soup.  .  .  .380 

Oyster  Stew 380 

Cream   of  Pea  Soup 380 

Peanut   Soup    380 

Split  Pea  Soup 380 


416 


INDEX 


Page 
Soups — Continued. 

Potato  Soup    381 

Cream   Potato  Soup 381 

Cream  of  Potato   Soup...  381 

Rice  Soup    382 

Scotch    Broth    382 

Cream  of  Spinach  Soup.  .  .382 

Spinach  Soup    382 

Tomato   Soups    382 

Tomato  Bisque 383 

Clear  Tomato  Soup 383 

Cream  Tomato  Soup 383 

Cream   of   Tomato   Soup.. 383 

Italian  Tomato  Soup 384 

Turkey  Bone  Soup 384 

Veal  Soup   384 

Vegetable  Consomme   ....384 

Vegetable  Soup    385 

VEGETABLES 389 

A   Suggestion  as   to   Vege- 
tables     389 

Artichokes 389 

Hollandaise     Sauce     for 

above    389 

Artichoke    Hearts    389 

Asparagus    390 

Baked   Beans    390 

Boston  Baked  Beans  ....390 
Tomato  Baked  Beans  ...  .391 
Yankee  Baked  Pork  and 

Beans    391 

Fried  Beans   391 

Bean  Loaf 391 

Beets 391 

Yale   Beets    392 

Caromeled  Carrots    392 

Cream  Cabbage   392 

Cauliflower    392 

Baked  Green  Corn 392 

Baked   Sweet  Corn 393 

Fried    Green    Corn    and 

Peppers    393 

Baked  Cucumbers 393 

Fried  Cucumbers 393 

Dandelion    393 

Baked  Egg  Plant 393 


Page 

To  Cook  Egg  Plant 393 

Stuffed  Mangoes 394 

Leftovers,   Spanish    394 

Macaroni   and    Cheese.  ...  394 

Mushrooms 394 

Muchrooms     and     Beef- 

steak 394 

Mushrooms  for  Beefsteak. .  395 
Mushroom  Sauce  for  Beef- 
steak      395 

Silver  -  Skinned   Onions   in 

Cream 395 

Creamed   Onions    395 

Stuffed  Onions 395 

Stuffed    Peppers    396 

Stuffed   Bell  Peppers 396 

Baked  Stuffed  Peppers.  ..  397 

Parsnips 397 

Baked  Mashed  Potatoes. .  397 
Stuffed  Baked  Potatoes.  ..397 
Potatoes  en  Casserole.  ...  398 

Sweet   Potatoes    398 

Sweet  Potatoes  en  Casser- 
ole    398 

Boston  Brown  Potatoes. ..  399 
Hashed  Brown  Potatoes.  .  399 

Potato    Rolls    399 

Potatoes    au    Gratin 399 

Potato  Souffle  with  Meat.  399 

Scalloped   Potatoes    400 

Boiled  Rice 400 

Spinach    400 

Italian  Spaghetti 400 

Brussel  Sprouts    401 

Hubbard    Squash    en    Cas- 
serole     401 

Stuffed    Squash    401 

Baked    Squash    401 

Stuffed  Bake'd  Tomatoes.  .401 

Fried   Tomatoes 401 

Green   Tomatoes   Fried...  402 

Fried   Tomatoes    402 

Tomatoes  Farcia   402 

Tomatoes  and   Onions.  ...  402 

Stewed  Tomatoes 402 

Jellied  Vegetables   402 


WILLIAMS  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  ASSOCIATION  417 


418  THE   ARIZONA    COOK    BOOK 


ttfy?  Arizona  (Sa 


Arizona 


Published  every  week  day  evening  at 
the  Capital  of  the  State,  containing  all 
the  News;  Local,  Territorial  and  Foreign. 

The  only  Arizona  Paper  that  stands  for 
the  Rights  of  the  People. 

Subscribe  for  it. 


Jtftg    OUtttB    p?r 


$3.00  %  l?ar,  in  Afctmnr*.    .    .    . 

in  Jlnlitira 


MUltama 


1C. 

Ebttnr  anb 


,  Arizona 


Abu^rliaing  il^binm  in  2fartl}?rn  Arizona 

anb  ^ample  OInpiea  on  Appliratinn 


Dr.  §£.  G.  'RounsevHh  -  Geo.  'P. 


Vv  illiams 
Drug  Company 


Williams,    A  rizona 


Retail  Druggists;    Registered  Pharmacists 


Fine    Stationery    and 
Fancy  Toilet  Articles 


Only  ^Peo^le  in  W"  T  illiams  Carrying 
Haviland  China 


ccounts  Invited    ^W^itJi  Good  Patrons 


The  Arizona 
Central  Bank 


of- 


Flagstaff, 
Williams  and  Kingman,  Arizona 

Oldest  Bank  in  Northern  Arizona 
Established  1871 

Conducts  a  General  Banking  Business 


T.  E.  POLLOCK,  President;  T.  J.  Pollock,  Vice  President 
C.  O.  Robinson,  Cashier;  L.  B.  Shaffer,  Assistant  Cashier 

H.  H.  Watkins,  Mgr.,  Kingman,  Ariz.;  McD.  Robinson,  Mgr.,  Williams,  Ariz. 


SAGINAW  &  MANISTEE 
LUMBER  CO. 

Wm.  F.  Dermont,  President  WILLIAMS,  ARIZONA 

MONTHLY  PRODUCT,  3,500,000  FEET 

Best  Equipped  Mill  and  Box  Factory  in 
the  Southwest 


Manufacturers  of 


Arizona  Soft  Pine  Lumber,  Timber,  Box 

Shooks,  Lath,  Mouldings,  Cut  Door  Stock 

and  Siding 


RACKET 
STORE 

GEORGE  W.  MATHEWS,   PROPRIETOR 


A  Full  Line  of 

General  l^lerchanaise 

Consisting  of 

J^fi/finery,  jBoots,  Shoes,  Hats,  Ca£s,  Quilts, 

Comforters,  Blankets,  Shirts,  Col- 
lars, Neckwear,  Yankee  Notions,  Post  Cards 

Crockery,  Glassware,'  Enamelware, 
Hardware,  Tinware,  Toilet  Sets,  Combs, 

Brushes,  Stationery,  Jewelry,  Clocks 
vv atcn.es,  Cigars,  Tobaccos,  Laundry  and 

jLoilet  Soafis,  Perfumery,  Handker- 
chiefs, Hosiery,  Ladies  Shirt  vvaists,  Skirts, 

y^luslin  Underwear,  Fresh  Fruits, 
Candies,  Nuts,  Groceries,  Dry  Goods,  Etc. 


WILLIAMS,        ARIZONA 


Ike, 

Botby  Burns 

Transfer 

Co. 

The    Only    Up-to-Date    Transfer 
Company  in  Williams 

with  Livery  and  Feed  Stables  in 
Connection.  We  also  supply 
Saddle  Horses  for  the  trip  up 
Bill  Williams  Mountain.  If  you 
want  first  class  work  by  experi- 
enced men,  and  horses  at  the 
cheapest  rates  in  the  Territory, 
call  on 

BOBBY  BURNS. 


Automobile 
Repair  Shop 


'Williams,  Ariz. 


Jo  Attwooa 


orders  given  f>rom£t  attention 
Satisfaction    Guaranteed 


Irvi 


ames  Irvine 


SnoemaKing 
and   'Repairing 


lliams,  Ariz. 


El 


mer     angn 


illiams,    Ariz. 


General 
acKsmitnmg 


Horse-Shoeing 
Repair 


'Button  and  Kent 
SASH  and  DOORS 

Window  Frames, 
and  Door  Frames; 

Repair  Work 

Mission  Furniture, 

Glass  and  Hardware 


Send  Orders  to 

Saginaw.Manistee  Lumber  Co* 

WILLIAMS,  ARIZ. 


Williams,  Ariz. 


Accommodations   First    Class   in 
Every  Particular. 

Headquarters    for    Tourists    and 
Commercial  Travelers. 

THE  NEW 

Grand  Canyon 
Hotel 

P.  S.  RONAN,  Proprietor 

RATES: 

Per  Night    $1.00 

Per  Week    $6.00 

Williams,  Ariz. 


JOHN  KRAFT 

Williams,  Ariz* 


Paints  Houses, 

Hangs  Paper 

and  Moves  Houses 


DUFFY 
BROS. 

WILLIAMS,  ARIZONA 
DEALERS  IN 

GENERAL 
MERCHANDISE 


A  Few  People  Do  Not  Trade  With 

HILL  &  KENNEDY 


tf  For  the  same  reason  that  modern 
methods  were  scoffed,  at  hy  our  fore- 
fathers. 

^  Yet,  in  sfiite  of  'Prejudice,  Pro- 
gress has  had  its  way. 

{J  The  successful  majority  trade  at 
"Hill  &  Kennedy's'  to  secure  the  oest 
Groceries  at  the  least  cost  in  W7?'/- 
liams. 

{J  We  do  not  carry  everything,  hut 
our  line  of  everything  good  to  eat  is 
complete,  as  we  have  made  a  specialty 
of  this  line. 

Vvholesale  and   Retail   Groters 
The  Home  WLerchants 


HILL  &  KENNEDY 

,  Arizona 


010 


01.  IE.  2|mtrar&,  flrmtont 
1.  f&iorban,  ^rrrtarg        -        QL  A,  Sinrian, 


Aatj  Jffork,  Arizona 


JOHN   MARTIN 

WILLIAMS,  ARIZONA 

PLUMBER    and  TINSMITH 

SATISFACTION  ALWAYS  GUARANTEED 


Flagstaff 

Lumber  J^Lanufacturing 

Company 

Arizona  Soft  Pine  Lumber 


Flagstaff,  Arizona 


L.  D.  YAEGER 

Flagstaff,  Arizona 

SHEEP  and  WOOL  GROWER 


?  ra  for 


Nattajo  Ulankria          :  Snfctatt 

Attaint  att&  fNotont  Pott^r^ 
qit^B  :         Nauajo  Srar?  bta 

Slttbtan  Cioobfi  of 


lahbttt 

,  Arietta 


©raining 

Qfaha 


T.  A.  Jordan,  Trcs.        :        cM.J.  Jordan,  Sec. 


ARIZONA 

LUMBER  AND  TIMBER 
COMPANY 

Manufacturers  of 

NATIVE  PINE  LUMBER 

PROPS,  STULLS,  PILING,  TIES,  LAGGING 

BOXES,  LATHS,  SHINGLES,  SASH  AND  DOORS 

Flagstaff,  cArizona 


PARLOR 
BARBER  SHOP 


s,   A  rizona 

ALBERT  LEBSCH 


TO  GET  RESULTS 

Use  Best  Materials  and  a 

CHARTER  OAK 

RANGE 


WE  CARRY  EVERYTHING 

BABBITT-POLSON 

COMPANY 
WILLIAMS,  ARIZONA 


The  Quality  of 

Bread  Winner  Flour 

Is  All  That  the  Name  Implies 

BABBITT-POLSON  CO. 

Williams,  Arizona 


Campbell, 
Francis  & 


Sheep  Breeders 
and  Wool  Growers 


FLAGSTAFF     :     ARIZONA 


GERMAIN 

/ 

Seed  and  Plant  Co. 


SEEDS,  BULBS 


NURSERY  STOCK  AND 


POULTRY  SUPPLIES 


Choice  Flower  Seeds 

A  Specialty 

Largest  and  Most  Complete  Seed  House 
On  the  Pacific  Coast 

SEND  FOR  OUR  CATALOGUE 

226-230  So.  Main  St. 
Los  Angeles     :     :     :     :     :     California 


O.  H.  PREYSZ 

NOTARY    PUBLIC 
WILLIAMS,  ARIZ. 


J.  S.  BUTTON 

s  WILLIAMS,   ARIZ. 

FUNERAL    DIRECTOR 
AND    EMBALMER 

CONTRACTOR    AND     BUILDER 


Christmas 
Gifts 


Diamonds  and  Gold  Jewelry 

Watches 
Sterling   Silverware 

Silver  Novelties 
Hand  Wrought  Bronze  Desk  Sets 

Stationery 
Art  Leather  Goods 

These  Goods  Are  the  Products  of  the  Leading  Makers 

in  the  Several  Lines,  and  Embrace  many 

Exclusive   Designs 

JOHN  KAY  &  CO. 

Direct  Diamond  Importers 

Head  of  Grand  Staircase  201-203-205-207  Majestic  Bldg. 

Detroit 


JUorai 

Albuquerque,  -Dfoui 


Sr.  A.  d. 

fJlnimrian 


5itlltam0,  Arizona 


The    ^$7mtley  jewelry   Co. 


Diamond   Merchants 


Our  store  now  filled  with  many  new 
and  exclusive  novelties  for  the  Holi- 
days  

347  So.  Broadway          -          Los  Angeles,  Cal. 


A.  C.  <B;J;cle  Jno.  S.  Mitchell 


Los  S^ngeJes,    California 

Arizona   Headquarters 

e  yourself  at  home  at  the  Hollenoeck.      The  lest  is  yours 
Your  Patronage  Appreciated 


W.    C.    RITTENHOUSE 


WILLIAMS,  ARIZ. 

DEALER  IN 


MENS'  CLOTHING,  HATS  AND 
FURNISHING  GOODS 

We    Cater   to   the   Man    Who    Cares 


Overland 

Telephone  ana  JLelegraph  Co. 
Pnoenix,  Ariz. 

W7".  H.  Thorfie,  J^lanager 


Hutchinson  &  Go 

/ 
Importers,  Breeders  and  Dealers  in 

Thoroughbred  Oxford  Down 
and  Hampshire  Sheep .... 

C.  C.  Hutchinson 

General  Manager 

Phoenix,  Arizona 


J.  Caufman,  Manager      :      C.  H.  Huse,  Local  Manager 

J.  C.  PKelan,  President   :    C.  H.  Adams,  V.-Pres. 

V.  H.  Melick,  Secretary-Treasurer 


Grand  Canyon 

Electric  Light  fe?  Power  Company 

Yv  imams,  Arizona 


Directors: 

J.  C.  Pkelan,  R.  J.  Arey,  J.  Caufman,  C.  H.  Adams, 
V.  H.  Melick,  J.  H.  Hudson,   F.  O.  Poison 


OLD 

HOMESTEAD 
FLOUR 


Assures  the  Best  Results 

In    Baking   Bread    ana    Cakes 

Use  No   Other 


Jrfanufacturea  iy  tne 

Dodge   City  M.  fe?  E.  Company 

Dodge  City,  Kansas 

Babbitt-Poison  Company 

Local  Agents      ::       ^Williams,   Ariz. 


Palace 

Restaurant 

and  Cafe 

Williams,  Arizona 


The  Best  Place  in  the  City  for  a 
Good  Meal 

Sunday  Dinners  a  Specialty 

If  You  Dine  With  Us  Once,  You'll 
Come  Again 


Your  Patronage  Respectfully  Solicited 


Ihe   CABINET 

RESTAURANT 

WILLIAMS,  ARIZONA 
GEE  JIM,  PROPRIETOR 


Xne  Oldest  and  Most  Reliable  Restaurant  in  tke  City 


Satisfaction  Always  Guaranteed 


SHORT  ORDERS   A    SPECIALTY 


The  Xe\v  Home  of 


Sprague,  Warner  &  Co. 

MANUFACTURING  WHOLESALE  GROCERS 
Erie  Street  Bridge,  Chicago 

OUR  BRANDS  PURE  FOODS 

RICHELIEU 

FERNDELL 

BAT  A  VI A 

rlichelieu,  Ferndell  and  Batavi  a  Food  Products  comply  with  all  re- 
quirements of  every  Pure  Food  Law;  but  Richelieu,  Ferndell  and 
Eatavia  Food  Products  do  not  merely  "COMPLY"  with  the  laws; 
the  "SURPASS"  in  character  and  quality  the  most  "EXACTING 
REQUIREMENTS"  of  the  laws. 

Factories 

CHICAGO,  ILL..,  WTDDLEPORT,  X.  Y.  BATAVIA,  X.  Y.  BROCK- 
PORT,  N.  Y.  Offices,  CHICAGO,  ILL. 


P..pp 


I  NEW  RECIPE  BOOKLET 

1  Beautifully  illustrated ;  contain- 
ing recipes  specially  prepared  by  Mrs.  Janet 
McKenzie  Hill,  Miss  Parloa  and  other  noted 
teachers,  for  using 


WALTER  BAKER  i  GO.' 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate 

in  a  great  variety  cf  Home-Made 
Candies  and   Dainty  Dishes. 


130  Years 

of    constantly    increasing  sales 


52  Highest  Awards 

in  Europe  and  America 

No  other  food  product 
has  a  like   record 


Registered 
U.  S.  i'at.  Office 


WALTER  BAKER  &  CO.  Ltd 


Established 
780 


DORCHESTER.  MASS. 


