TLA? 


Coo 


WdMAJNPs  Club 


(lOK 


.<^' 


Class. 
BooL 


T  y  1 J  r 


GopyrigMNi 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSir. 


Atlanta  Woman's  Club 


COOK  BOOK 

Edited  by 

Home  Economics  Department 


MRS.  NEWTON  C.  WING, 

Chairman. 

MRS.  J.  A.  CARLISLE, 

Chairman  of  Cook  Booh. 


H    oooooo    H 

Bncn^nfl 


Decorations  by 
MISS  MARIE  HAINES. 

Censored  by 
MISS  MARY  PINCKNEY  MEANS. 


Copyright  1921 

ATLANTA  WOMAN'S  CLUB. 


M  25  1922 
©CI.A659209 


ATLANTA  WOMAN'S  CLUB  COOKBOOK 

Decorations  by  Miss  Marie  Haines,  Miss  Mary  Means,  Censor  of  Recipes. 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

I     SECRETS  OF  KITCHEN  HAPPINESS 8 

My-s.  Newton  C.  Wing,  Chairvian  Home  Economics. 

II     NECESSARY    KITCHEN    EQUIPMENT 10 

Home   Ecoyiomics   Department. 

III  BUDGETING   YOUR   TIME 12 

Introduction  by  Mrs.  B.  M.  Boykin,  President  Atlanta  Woman's  Club. 

IV  RECIPES  FROM  FAMOUS  HOMES 14 

Mrs.   W.  F.  Melton,   Chairman. 

V     QUEEN  SWEET  POTATO 21 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Hays,  President  State  Federation  Women's  Clubs. 

VI     ATLANTA  WOMAN'S  CLUB  FAVORITE  RECIPES 27 

Mrs.   Katherine   Fitts,   Club   Cateress. 

VII     NEEDFUL  FACTS  FOR  HOUSEWIVES 30 

Home   Ecoyiomics   Department. 
NOTE — following  recipes  arranged  in  order  of  meals. 

VIII     BREAKFASTS     36 

Fruits  in  Season Mrs.  Norman  Sharp.  Chairman  Markets. 

Cereals   Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle,  Chairman  Cook  Book. 

Breads,  Battercakes  and  Waffles    Mrs.  Frank  Daub. 

Egg  Dishes  and  Croquettes   Mrs.  Lee  Hagan. 

IX     LUNCHEONS    AND    SUPPERS 58 

Salads  and  Sandwiches    Mrs.   Norman   Pool. 

Chafing  Dish  Suggestions Mrs.  Charles  Evans. 

Beverages   Mrs.  A.  C.  Plage. 

Pickles,  Marmalades  and  Relishes Mrs.  J.  L.  Minsen. 

Cakes,  Cookies  and  Icings Mrs.  H.  A.  Manning 

Confectionery   Mrs.  George   Obear. 

X     DINNERS    131 

Soups    Mrs.  J.  M.  Manry. 

Poultry,  Game,  Fish  and  Oysters   Mrs.  C.  E.  Cresse. 

Meats   Mrs.  J.  M.  Manry. 

Vegetables    Mrs.    Ernest    Covington 

S.alads    (see  Luncheon  Chapter). 

Dainty  Desserts   Mrs.  J.  B.  Dinwiddle. 

Pastries,  Puddings  and  Dumplings   Mrs.  W.  R.  Bean. 

XI     MRS.  THOMAS'  FAVORITE  RECIPES 191 

Mrs.  Irving  Thomas. 

XII     THRIFT    RECIPES 197 

Thrift  Comrnitte  of  Club. 

XIII  PIONEER  CHAPTER 206 

Mrs.  Lollie  Belle   Wylie 

XIV  FAMOUS  CREOLE   DISHES 211 

Mrs.  Marie  Hubert  of  New  Orleans. 

XV     SCIENTIFIC    CANNING 215 

State  College  of  Agriculture 

XVI     SCHOOL  AND  BUSINESS  LUNCHES 223 

Mrs.  S.  R.  Dull. 

XVII     FIRELESS  COOKERY 225 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Rowe. 

XVIII     DISCOVERIES    229 

Mrs.  Frank  Graham. 

XIX     HOME  GARDENS 236 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Hastings. 

XX     RECIPES  FOR  SPECIAL  OCCASIONS 241 

XXI     ADVERTISING    CHAPTER    245 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing,  Chairman  Home  Economics. 


FOREWORD. 


In  offering  this  book  to  the  pubHc,  the  cook  book  committee 
is  divided  between  two  impulses — the  first,  to  apologize  for  its 
temerity  in  offering  a  cook  book  compiled  and  edited  for  the  most 
part  by  amateurs  and  which,  if  advanced  sales  are  an  indication, 
will  be  passed  in  review  by  housewives  from  coast  to  coast;  and 
second  (much  the  stronger  we  fear)  a  feeling  that  we  have  done 
our  very  best  and  are  willing  to  be  judged  according  to  the  standard 
of  the  very  best  cook  books. 

For  six  months  this  committee  composed  of  some  of  the  most 
prominent  women  of  the  state,  has  labored  almost  unceasingly  to 
present  to  other  women  who  honor  their  profession  as  housewives 
the  recipes  which  thousands  consider  to  be  their  choicest.  Each 
of  these  recipes  has  been  thoroughly  tested  by  the  contributor,  and 
after  reaching  us  has  been  censored  by  the  Home  Economics  Direc- 
tor, Miss  Mary  Means  of  the  Girls'  High  School  Faculty.  We  re- 
gret deeply  that  space  could  not  be  found  for  every  one  of  the 
delicious  recipes  sent  us,  but  the  necessity  for  having,  as  nearly 
as  possible,  an  evenly  balanced  book,  and  one  in  which  every 
direction  is  clearly  stated,  and  with  no  duplicates,  caused  many  to 
be  eliminated  by  the  censor.  Some  recipes  will  be  found  in  other 
places  in  the  book,  where  they  seemed  more  necessary. 

The  fact  that  this  cook  book  is  published  by  the  Home  Econo- 
mics Department  of  our  club  renders  it  necessary  for  it  to  conform 
to  the  rules  for  service  inaugurated  by  this  Department  for  its 
members.  Accordingly  the  wording  of  each  recipe  has  been  given 
more  plainly  than  is  customary  in  most  cook  books,  so  it  will  form 
not  only  an  excellent  hand  book  for  our  own  members,  but  may 
be  easily  used  by  those  hitherto  entirely  unfamilar  with  cooking 

Altho  this  volume  specializes  in  typical  Southern  recipes, 
it  also  contains  many  choice  tid-bits  from  other  sections  owing 
to  the  cosmopolitan  character  of  the  Woman's  Club  membership, 
which  numbers  many  residents  formerly  from  other  parts  of  the 
United  States. 

In  omitting  special  menus,  which  in  our  experience  rarely  can 
be  used  exactly  as  printed,  we  have  substituted  instead  the  order, 
of  recipes  naturally  followed  during  the  day,  leaving  the  house- 
wife the  liberty  of  choice. 

Chairmen  for  our  chapter  have  been  selected  because  of  es- 
•pecial  fitness  for  the  work.  Each  has  taken  the  greatest  pride  in 
the  collection  of  recipes  and  their  arrangement.  They  should  not, 
however,  be  held  responsible  for  any  omission  of  recipes,  as  that 
necessarily   had   to    be   decided   by  the   censor   and   the    editors. 

It  was  not  required  that  recipes  contributed  should  be  ab- 
solutely original,  as  so  few  really  can  be,  but  that  they  should  have 
been  in  use  by  the  contributor  or  some  close  friend  for  some  time. 


In  view  of  the  fact  that  all  money  from  the  sale  of  this  book 
goes  towards  the  building  fund  of  our  wonderful  new  auditorium — 
that  temple  of  unselfish  service— we  ask  that  our  club  members 
deal  lovingly  with  this  book,  that  each  purchase  at  least  one  for  her- 
self or  a  friend,  that  each  encourage  its  sale  in  every  way  possible 
and  that  all  criticisms,  for  or  against,  be  given  to  the  editors  to  the 
end  that  the  next  edition  may  benefit  thereby. 

Even  before  this  goes  to  press  hundreds  of  dollars  have  been 
sent  together  with  addresses  to  our  Sales-Chairman,  Mrs.  Alonzo 
Richardson,  682  West  Peachtree  St.,  Atlanta,  Ga.  The  cook  books 
are  two  dollars  each  and  out  of  town  orders  should  be  accompanied 
by  ten  cents  (10c)  postage. 

In  conclusion  we  thank  most  heartily  those  who  have  in  any 
way  contributed  to  the  success  of  the  cook  book  and  if,  as  we  hope, 
it  becomes  part  of  the  necessary  kitchen  equipment  in  thousands 
of  homes  we  will  feel  we  have  not  labored  in  vain. 
Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing, 

Chairman  Home  Economics  Department. 
Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle, 

Chairman  of  Cook  Book. 

Advisory  board — Mrs.  J.  E.  Hays,  State  Federation  President, 
Mrs.  B.  M.  Boykin,  President  Atlanta  Woman's  Club,  Mrs.  Alonzo 
Richardson,  Mrs.  Irving  Thomas,  Mrs.  W.  B.  Price-Smith,  Mrs. 
Wilmer  Moore,  Mrs.  W.  F.  Melton,  Secretary;  Mrs.  Arthur  Haz- 
zard,  Treasurer;  Mrs.  George  Brower,  Auditor;  Mrs.  H.  C.  Phipps, 
Printing;  Miss  Corinne  Chisholm,  Mrs.  Norman  Pool,  Mrs.  A.  C. 
Plage,  Miss  Cobbie  Vaughn,  Mrs.  C.  P.  Ozburn,  Mrs.  Victor  Kriegs- 
haber. 


CHAPTER  I. 


THE  SECRET  OF  KITCHEN  HAPPINESS. 
Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing,  Chairman  Home  Economics. 


House-work  may  be  made  either  a  delight  or  drudgery,  accord- 
ing to  the  mental  attitude  which  accompanies  it.  It  is  impossible, 
naturally,  to  love  one's  house-work,  if  one  does  not  have  the  proper 
equipment  and  if  one's  house,  especially  the  kitchen,  is  not  properly 
arranged,  ventilated  and  lighted. 

We  realize  that  few  houses  are  built  which  follow  any  scientific 
arrangement  as  to  the  kitchen.  Speed  the  day  when  the  architect 
and  the  experienced  house  wife  will  together  plan  all  kitchens.  In 
building  a  new  house,  the  housewife  should  insist  on  having  the 
kitchen  built  as  she  desires,  always  considering,  of  course  that  it 
harmonizes  with  the  general  architectural  plans  of  the  house. 

Even  if  a  house  wife  employs  servants,  she  can  not  secure  that 
servant's  contentment  or  best  efforts,  unless  she  saves  her  time  and 
strength  by  labor-saving  methods. 


MORE  EFFICIENCY  MAY  BE  SECURED 

I.  By  having  a  small  kitchen,  (but  not  crowded). 

II.  By  covering  walls  with  washable  materials  such  as  tile, 
enamel,  or  any  good  washable  paint. 

III.  By  covering  the  floor  with  linoleum,  one  with  dark  back- 
ground being  preferred.     Wax  well  after  laying. 

IV.  By  grouping  certain  apparatus  and  utensils,  according  to 
their  use.      Common  sense  shows  that  many  steps  are  avoided  if: 

First — The  sink,  with  its  two  large  drain  boards,  one  on  each 


side,  is  placed  next  to  the  dining  room  or  pantry.  Ideal  arrange- 
ment consists  in  having  a  dish-window  opening  directly  between  the 
dish-closet  and  the  sink.  This  should  be  large  enough  to  allow  the 
passage  of  the  wire  dish  drainer  filled  with  dishes.  Soiled  dishes 
are  placed  on  right  hand  drain  board,  where  they  are  picked  up  by 
the  dish-washer's  right  hand,  scrubbed  under  running  water,  by 
brush  held  in  left  hand,  and  then  placed  in  dish  pan.  When  pan  is 
full,  place  one  tablespoon  of  washing  powder  over  dishes  (this  is 
enough  to  cut  grease,  but  does  not  make  water  soapy) ,  fill  pan  with 
very  hot  water.  With  dishmop  tilt  plates  until  easily  grasped  by 
left  hand,  rub  with  dish  mop,  and  place  in  dish  drainer  at  left.  Very 
much  hotter  water  may  be  used  than  in  the  old  fashioned  way  of 
using  a  dishcloth, — the  hot  water  filling  the  two-fold  purpose  of 
cleaning  the  dishes  and  making  them  dry  more  easily.  When 
drainer  is  full,  pass  thru  dish-window  or  carry  to  dish-closet.  This 
leaves  room  for  washing  cooking  dishes  and  by  the  time  these  are 
done  the  china  dishes  are  dry  and  sparkling  and  may  be  put  away 
in  the  china  closet  without  wiping.  This  is  much  more  sanitary 
than  the  old  way  of  wiping  with  dish  towel,  which  is  never  perfectly 
dry  and  clean  except  for  the  first  dish.  Towels  of  best  linen 
toweling  should  of  course  be  used  for  glasses  and  silver.  Sinks  and 
tables  are  generally  built  too  low.  Housewives  should  msist  on 
having  sinks  built,  so  that,  without  stooping,  one  may  touch  the 
inside  floor  of  the  sink  with  the  flat  of  the  hand.  The  same  holds 
good  with  the  tables  (note  the  height  of  kitchen  cabinet  table). 
For  the  average  person,  the  height  of  sinks,  etc.,  should  be  36  inches. 

Second — The  stove  should  be  next  to  dining  room  door  on  the 
other  side  from  the  sink  to  facilitate  serving.  Thus  a  tea  wagon 
can  be  used  both  to  take  food  directly  from  the  stove  to  the  dining 
room  table  and  also  to  bring  soiled  dishes  from  the  table  to  the  sink. 

Third — Grouped  on  opposite  side  from  the  stove,  should  be 
the  kitchen  cabinet,  and  working  table  with  store  closet  near.  If 
table  is  on  casters,  it  can  be  rolled  over  near  table  or  sink  when 
needed. 

Fourth — If  the  kitchen  is  sufficiently  large  there  should  be 
a  rest  corner  with  a  desk  and  bookcase  above  for  working  on 
kitchen  accounts  and  for  keeping  cook  books  thus  utilizing  the 
spare  minutes  which  often  occur  in  the  kitchen  while  meals  are 
cooking. 


CHAPTER  II. 


NECESSARY  KITCHEN  EQUIPMENT. 

Two  factors  cause  much  loss  of  time  in  most  kitchens :  the 
first  arises  from  the  use  of  old  worn-out  tools,  and  the  second  be- 
cause of  an  insufficient  supply  of  utensils  adapted  to  certain  uses. 

Kitchen  equipment  should  always  be  kept  near  the  place  in 
the  kitchen  where  it  is  to  be  used.  In  most  homes  the  kitchen 
cabinet  becomes  the  receptacle  for  most  of  the  articles  used  in  the 
preparation  of  the  meals  and  therefore  will  be  treated  first  in  this 
article.  Keep  in  mind  that  the  utensils  used  most  often  should  be 
kept  where  most  accessible,  i.  e.,  in  top  drawers,  while  other  seldom 
used  articles  may  be  packed  away.  As  various  kitchen  cabinets 
have  different  spaces,  the  following  arrangement  is  merely  sugges- 
tive. 


THE  KITCHEN  CABINET  SHOULD  CONTAIN 

All  spices,  baking  powder  (Royal),  salt,  pepper,  tea,  coffee, 
sugar,  soda,  flour,  corn-starch,  cocoa,  chocolate,  Worcestershire 
Sauce,  catsup,  canned  salad  dressing  (for  seasoning),  flavoring  ex- 
tracts, crackers,  canned  soups,  pimentos,  and  other  canned  products 
for  an  emergency  meal. 


IN  DRAWERS  OF  KITCHEN  CABINET. 


1  wooden  spoon. 

bread  knife. 

2  large  spoons 

biscuit  cutter. 

2  tablespoons. 

cookie  cutter. 

4  t-spoons. 

doughnut  cutter. 

1  combination     set     aluminum 

carving  set. 

measuring  spoons. 

funnel. 

1  spatula. 

pair  scissors. 

1  long-handled  fork. 

corkscrew. 

2  small  paring  knives. 

pancake  turner. 

1  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

egg  beater  (wheel) 

1  potato  ricer. 

egg  beater  (whisk) 

1  strainer. 

strainer. 

1  large  grater. 

apple  corer. 

1  can  opener. 

NECESSARY    KITCHEN    EQUIPMENT 


11 


IN  CUPBOARDS  OF  KITCHEN  CABINET. 


1  frying  pan. 

5  saucepans. 

One-1-pint. 

Two-1-quart. 

One-2-quart. 

One-1-gallon. 


1  double  boiler. 

2  bread  pans. 
2  sets  muffin  pans    (different 

shapes). 

2  oblong  cake  pans.  

A  high  stool,  a  bread  board,  a  rolling  pin,  scales  for  weighing 
groceries,  a  clock,  and  a  nest  of  earthenware  and  enamel  bowls; 
food  chopper. 


2  baking  sheets. 

3  different  size  pie  tins. 

1  set  fire-proof  glass  dishes. 

1  iron  mould  for  cornsticks. 

1  lemon  squeezer. 

2  measuring  cups. 
2  qt.  measures. 
1  coffee  pot. 
1  tea  pot. 
1  wooden  chopping  bowl. 


China  used  in  cooking. 


KITCHEN  OR  PANTRY  DRAWERS  AND  SHELVES. 


Wax  paper. 

Labels. 

Pad. 

Pencils. 

Pliers. 

Pen-knife. 

String. 

Screw-driver. 

Hammer. 

Cheese-cloth. 

Trays. 

China  and  glass  used  daily. 

1  doz.    hand    towels    and    dish 

towels. 
3  dish  cloths. 


3  holders. 

Paper  doilies. 

Preserving  kettle. 

Bread  mixer. 

Iron  frying-pan. 

Roasting  pan. 

Moulds  for  steam  mixtures. 

Deep  fat  kettle. 

Colander. 

Ladle. 

Skimmer. 

Frying  basket. 

Angel  cake  pan. 

Bean  pot. 

Steamer. 


KITCHEN  FURNISHINGS  AND  APPURTENANCES. 


1  chair  (or  more). 

1  rocking    chair    (if    there    is 

room). 
1  white  porcelain  table  on  rol- 

lers   (should  have 

drawer) . 
ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB 

COOK  BOOK. 
Book  shelf  for  cook  books,  etc. 
Electric  toaster. 


Ice-cream  freezer. 

Fireless  cooker. 

Refrigerator. 

Meat  grinder. 

Ice-pick. 

Ironing-board. 

Waffle  iron. 

Tea  wagon. 

Electric  flat  iron  and  rest. 

Electric  washing  machine 


Matches. 


STOVE. 

3  cloth  holders. 


Holder  for  burned  matches. 


CHAPTER  III. 

BUDGETING  YOUR  TIME. 

Introduction  by  Mrs.  B.  M.  Boykin — President  Atlanta  Woman's 
Club. 

In  these  very  busy  days  when  every  woman  is  working,  as 
she  thinks,  to  her  greatest  capacity  and  then  does  not  always  gel 
through,  suppose  she  stops  and  takes  stock. — She  will  find  that  she 
could  have  done  much  more  and  been  less  tired  if  only  she  had 
mapped  out  her  day  and  stuck  to  her  schedule,  but  she  lets  every- 
thing hinder  her. 

While  starting  out  to  buy  her  groceries  somebody  called  and 
talked  so  long  over  the  'phone  she  was  late.  Consequently,  after 
marketing  she  was  late  to  her  engagement  and  so  on.  Let  us  learn 
to  shorten  unnecessary  conversation,  be  prompt  for  each  engage- 
ment, conduct  our  daily  lives  with  the  same  efficiency  which  is 
used  by  business  men.  A  place  for  everything,  everything  in  its 
place — a  time  for  everything  and  everything  on  time ; — leaves  plenty 
of  opportunity  for  healthful  recreation  and,  at  the  same  time,  a 
consciousness  of  carrying  one's  program   of  work  satisfactorily. 

The  war  helped  every  woman  toward  economy.  Let  us  carry 
on  now  in  saving  our  strength  and  getting  better  results  from  our 
time. 


THE  WORKING  SCHEDULE  IN  A  HOME  ECONOMICS  HOUSE- 
HOLD. 

While  the  following  schedule  may  not  fit  every  one's  domestic 
arrangements,  yet  it  may  serve  as  a  help  to  other  women  in  planning 
their  work  whether  done  by  themselves  or  by  servants. 

This  has  been  found  invaluable  in  training  a  new  servant. 


GENERAL  OUTLINE  OF  WORK. 
Everyday  Do  The  Following 

6:45  to  9:00 — Prepare  breakfast  and  serve:  While  family  is 
eating,  have  servant  sweep  front  porch  and  steps ;  afterward  clear 
table,  wash  dishes,  wipe  off  kitchen  table,  kitchen  cabinet,  stove, 
shelves,  etc.  Shine  all  aluminum  dishes  used  for  the  meal  and  polish 
oooking  utensils.  Nothing  should  be  left  lying  about  in  the  kitchen 
or  butler's  pantry.  Sweep  kitchen,  butler's  pantry  and  eating  porch 
(dining  room).  Should  be  thru  by  about  nine. 


GENERAL   OUTLINE   OF   WORK  13 

10  to  10  :30 — All  downstairs  should  be  in  order :  floors  swept 
or  floor  mopped,  lavatory  cleaned,  etc. 

10:30  to  11:00 — Bath  room  cleaned — Any  special  job  if  there 
is  time. 

11:30  to  12:00— Prepare  lunch. 

AFTERNOON. 

1 :00  to  2  :00 — Do  dishes  and  put  kitchen  and  dining  room  in 
order. 

2:00' to  4:00 — Any  special  work  assigned  for  that  day  (see  list 
later) . 

4:00  to  5:00 — Rest  or  recreation  (this  always  applies  to  the 
cook). 

5:00  to  7:30 — Prepare  dinner,  wash  dishes  and  put  dining 
room  and  kitchen  in  order. 

SPECIAL  WORK. 

Leave  all  special  work  to  time  provided  in  outline.  This  con- 
sists in  cleaning  silver,  washing  windows,  straightening  up  closets, 
drawers,  etc.,  cleaning  brass  door  knobs,  mirrors,  china  closet", 
glass  doors  and  any  metals. 

SPECIAL  TASKS  FOR  EACH  DAY. 

Monday — Wash  anything  in  the  laundry  bag  which  is  too  delicate 
to  send  to  the  washwoman.  Cook  allowed  to  wash  her  own 
things  also  at  this  time. 

Tuesday — Do  any  ironing — clean  eating  porch,    (or  dining  room). 

Wednesday — Clean  kitchen  and  butler's  pantry  thoroughly,  wash- 
ing all  wood  work — inside  of  store  closet,  outside  of  boiler, 
scrub  floors,  clean  kitchen  cabinet  inside  and  out  and  the 
stove.     See  that  all  utensils  are  clean. 

Thursday — Follow  morning  schedule  and  clean  refrigerator  also, 

Thursday  Afternoon — Half  holiday,     (applies  to  the  house  wife  too. 

If  acting  as  cook,  she  deserves  a  dinner  out) . 
Friday — Clean  all  upstairs. 
Saturday — Clean  all  downstairs  except  kitchen,  etc.     Bake. 

Sunday  Morning— After  breakfast  see  that  house  is  straightened  up. 
prepare  dinner,  and  supper  which  is  set  away  in  refrigerator. 

"Every  Woman." 


CHAPTER  IV. 

RECIPES  FROM  FAMOUS  HOMES. 
(Compiled  by  Mrs.  W.  F.  Melton,  Secretary  Home  Economics). 

The  Home  Economics  Department  of  the  Atlanta  Woman's 
Club,  wishes  to  express  its  deep  appreciation  for  the  recipes  contri- 
buted by  "The  First  Lady  of  the  Land,"  Mrs.  Warren  G.  Harding, 
by  the  wives  of  so  many  of  our  governors,  and  by  other  notables. 


CHICKEN  PIE. 
1  qt.  flour. 
Lard  size  of  egg. 
1  t-spoon  salt. 
Milk. 


MRS.  HARDING'S 

1  good-sized  chicken. 

6  small  potatoes. 

1  onion. 

5  level  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

Boil  chicken  gently  until  it  falls  from  bones ;  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Cook  potatoes  and  onion  in  chicken  broth.  Make  a  pastry  of  flour, 
lard,  salt  and  baking  powder — add  milk  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Line  baking  dish  with  pastry  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Then 
fill  this  with  the  chicken,  potatoes,  and  a  small  amount  of  broth, 
cover  with  pastry  and  brown  in  quick  oven.  Thicken  remaining 
broth,  and  serve  over  pie. 


HARDING'S  WAFFLES. 

1  pt.  milk. 

Flour  to  make  thin  batter. 

2  large  t-spoons  baking  powder 


MRS. 
2  eggs. 
2  tbls.  sugar. 
2  tbls.  butter. 
1  t-spoon  salt. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  sugar  and  salt,  melt  butter,  add  milk 
and  flour;  last  just  before  ready  to  bake  add  beaten  whites  of  eggs 
and  baking  powder.      Bake  on  hot  waffle  iron. 

Mrs.  Warren  G.  Harding. 

LEMON  SAUCE  (FROM  MASSACHUSETTS.) 
1  tbl.  spoon  corn  starch.  2  tbl.  spoons  lemon  juice. 

Vi  cup  sugar.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

Mix  the  corn  starch,  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  then  add  the  cup 


RECIPES    FROM    FAMOUS    HOMES  15 


of  boiling  water,  stirring  slowly.      Cook  five  minutes  in  a  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly.      Add  two  tbl.  spoons  of  butter. 
Mrs.  Channing  H.  Cox, — ^Wife  of  Massachusett's  Governor. 

Boston,  Massachusetts. 

ECLAIRS  FILLED  WITH  SALAD  (FROM  GEORGIA.) 

14  cup  shortening.  V2  cup  boiling  water. 

1/2  cup  flour.  2  eggs. 

Mix  the  ingredients ;  bake,  cool,  cut  into  eclairs  4  inches  long 
and  %  inches  wide.  Split  the  eclairs;  line  with  lettuce  leaf;  fill 
each  eclair  with  one  boneless  sardine  mixed  with  1/3  chopped  hard- 
boiled  egg  and  two  tbl.  spoons  Mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  T.  W.  Hardwick, — Wife  of  Georgia's   Governor. 

Atlanta,  Georgia. 

JELLIED  APPLE  SALAD. 

1  cup  diced  apples.  2  tbls.  sugar. 

1/4  cup  diced  celery.  1/3  cup  lemon  juice. 

l/i  cup  chopped  figs.  14  t-spoon  salt. 

2  tbls.  gelatine.  2  red    pimentos,    cut   in    small 
1/4  cup  cold  water.  strips. 

1  and  1/2  cups  boiling  water. 

Mix  ingredients  with  mayonnaise.  Soften  gelatine  with  cold 
water.  Dissolve  with  boiling  water.  Add  ingredients  to  the 
gelatine  mixture.  Pour  into  mold.  When  congealed  serve  with 
Mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  T.  W.  Hardwick, 

Atlanta,  Georgia. 

"UNCLE  REMUS"  RECIPES. 
"I'se   mighty   glad   you    said    dat,"    remarked    Uncle   Remus, 
smacking  his  lips,  "kaze  ef  you  hadn't  said  it,  I'd  'a'  been  bleeze 
ter  say  it  myse'f."     (From  "The  Reason  Why.") 

DEVILED  SHRIMP. 
1  can  shrimp,  or  one  pint  fresh    Mince  shrimp  and  add  tomatoes, 

shrimp.  mixing  thoroughly. 

1  can  tomatoes.  A  half  cup  tomato  catsup  is  an 

1  tbl.  butter.  improvement. 

Red  or  black  pepper  and  salt  to     Cover  the  whole  with  crackei 
taste,  crumbs    and    brown    on 

Stew  tomatoes  and  when  nearly  top. 

done,  season. 

Mrs.  Joel  Chandler  Harris, 

Atlanta,  Georgia. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  CAKE. 
1  cup  white  raisins.  1  cup  macaroons. 

1  cup  chopped  pecans.  1  pt.  whipped  cream. 

1  cup  lady  fingers.  1  pt.  boiled  custard. 

Break  lady  fingers  and  macaroons  in  large  crumbs.     Put  rai- 


16  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


sins  in  whole.  Cut  nuts  in  quarters.  Whip  the  cream  slightly. 
Mix  all  together  lightly  with  pint  of  boiled  custard.  To  freeze : 
Put  mixture  in  mold  (with  hole  in  center).  Cover  contents  with 
waxed  paper.  Put  lid  on  mold.  Pack  well.  Let  it  remain  packed 
three-and-one-half  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  pour  hot  water 
over  mold.  Slide  on  platter.  Pour  glass  of  eggnog  in  hole  in 
center. 

Mrs.  Joel  Chandler  Harris, 
"Wren's  Nest,"  Atlanta.  Georgia. 

STEAMED  HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING  (FROM  GEORGIA). 

1  qt.  berries.  II/2  cups  milk. 

1  cup  syrup  (Georgia  cane).         %  t-spoon  soda. 
1/2  t-spoon  salt.  Flour. 

"Wash  and  dry  berries;  flour  them  as  if  for  fruit  cake.  Stir 
soda  into  syrup;  add  milk  and  salt;  add  flour  sufficient  to  make 
very  stiff  batter.  Carefully  stir  in  berries — avoid  breaking  them ; 
put  in  greased  steamer  or  mold ;  steam  three  hours,  and  serve  with 
hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Dorsey,  Wife  of  former  Governor  of  Georgia. 

RICE  WAFFLES.       (FROM  DELAWARE). 
1  34  cups  flour.  1  egg. 

2  tbls.  sugar. 
2/3  cups  cold  cooked  rice  broken     4  t-spoons  Royal  Baking  pow- 

up  with  fork.  der. 

1  1/2  cups  warm  milk.  1  tbl.  melted  butter. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  rice,  milk,  well-beaten  egg 
yolk,  butter,  and  egg  white  beaten  stiff. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Denney, 
(Wife  of  Delaware's  Governor). 

BAKED  OYSTERS.      (FROM  ALABAMA). 
3  pts.  oysters.  1  t-spoon         Worcestershire 

1  pt.  tomato  catsup.  Sauce. 

1  cup    cream.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Open  oyster  shells,  and  boil  oysters  slightly  in  their  own  li- 
quid ;  then  combine  this  with  sauce  made  of  the  remaining  ingred- 
ients', place  in  oyster  shells,  and  bake  in  oven,  adding  sauce  from 
time  to  time,  until  all  possible  is  used.  Care  must  be  taken  not 
to  have  the  oven  too  hot,  or  juice  will  burn  on  edges.  Fancy  shells 
may  be  used  or  ramekins. 

Mrs.  Thos  E.  Kilby, 
(Wife  of  Governor  of  Alabama). 

FRUIT  SALAD. 
1  can  pineapple.  1  stalk  celery. 

1  grape  fruit.  1  cup  pecan  meats. 

1  can  white  cherries.  2  lemons  (juice). 

1/2  box  gelatine. 


RECIPES    FROM    FAMOUS    HOMES  17 


Cut  celery,  pineapple,  and  grapefruit  in  pieces.  Add  nuts 
chopped  fine,  cherries  stoned,  and  juice  of  lemons.  Use  juice  of 
pineapple  and  cherries.  Put  gelatine  in  i/i  cup  cold  water,  dissolve 
by  setting  cup  in  hot  water.  Stir  into  fruit  and  congeal.  Serve 
with  Mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Thos  E.  Kilby, 
(Wife  of  Governor  of  Ala). 

PRUNE  WHIP. 

1  lb.  prunes.  1/2  cup  sugar. 

Whites   of  5  eggs.  1/2  cup  cream. 

Cook  prunes  well,  put  through  potato  masher,  add  sugar,  and 
fold  in  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Put  in  pan,  set  in  larger  pan. 
Place  over  gas  flame  on  hot  stove.  Steam  2  hours,  keep  water 
boiling  rapidly  all  the  time.  Serve  in  same  pan  with  whipped 
cream. 

Mrs.  Thos.  E.  Kilby, 
(Wife  of  Governor  of  Alabama) , 

ANGEL  CAKE  (FROM  ARKANSAS.) 
1  dozen  eggs  (whites).  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

11/2  cups  sugar.  1  t-spoon  cream  of  tartar. 

1  cup  flour. 

Sift  sugar  eight  times,  the  last  time  into  the  beaten  whites  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Sift  cream  of  tartar  into  the  flour  and  sift  flour 
eight  times,  the  last  time  into  the  mixture.  Fold  in  gently,  but  do 
not  beat.  Put  in  ungreased  pan  and  bake  slowly  50  minutes.  When 
done,  the  cake  should  be  turned  down  on  the  edge  of  two  cups 
until  thoroughly  cold  before  removing  from  pan. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  McRaye, 
(Wife  of  Governor  of  Arkansas). 

ORANGE  ICE-CREAM.      (FROM  CALIFORNIA). 
1  pt.  California  orange  juice.         1  pt.  plain  cream. 
1  pt.  whipping  cream.  Sugar  to  taste. 

Mix  ingredients,  freeze  and  pack  for  at  least  two  hours. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Stephens, 
(Wife  of  Governor  of  California). 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING   (FROM  CONNECTICUT.) 
Vinegar.  Black  pepper. 

Piece  of  ice.  Paprika. 

Salt.  Mustard. 

Red  pepper. 

Put  good  sized  piece  of  ice  in  boMd.  Put  into  tbls.  a  salt 
spoon  of  salt,  a  little  red  pepper  and  black  pepper,  paprika,  and 
mustard.  Mix  this  with  oil  until  smooth.  Pour  this  over  the 
ice.  Take  4  tbls.  of  oil  to  1  of  vinegar.  Pour  over  the  ice  until 
thick. 

Mrs.  Everett  L.  Lake, 
(Wife  of  Governor  of  Connecticut). 


18  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


OATMEAL  COOKIES. 
3  cups  uncooked  oatmeal.  1  cup     raisins     (chopped     and 

1  cup  flour.  floured). 

1  cup  sugar.  i/p  cup  buttermilk. 

%  cup  lard.  1  level  t-spoon  soda. 

1  egg. 
Spices  to  suit  taste.     Mix  ingredients  and  drop  from  a  t-spoon 
upon  a  greased  platter.     Cook  in  a  moderate  oven,  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes.     The  dough  must  be  very  stiff  or  the  cookies  will 
run  together. 

Mrs.  Everett  L.  Lake, 
(Wife  of  Governor  of  Connecticut.) 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING.      (FROM  MISSOURI). 
1  bottle  small  pickled  onions.         Paprika. 
1  box  pimentos.  Salt. 

8  eggs  (hard  boiled).  Cayenne  pepper. 

Grind  eggs  in  meat  chopper,  slice  pimentos  and  cut  up  onions 
fine.     Mix  all  together,  adding  salt,  paprika  and  cayenne  to  taste. 

Mayonnaise. 
Yolks  of  two  eggs.  1  lemon  (juice). 

I  cup  of  chili  sauce.  1  cud  olive  oil. 

Beat  egg  yolks,  add  olive  oil  drop  by  drop ;  when  it  thickens 
add  lemon  juice,  continue  beating  and  adding  oil  until  all  oil  is  used. 
Add  with  the  chili  sauce  to  the  above  ingredients.  Sliced  green 
pepper  improves  this  dressing. 

Mrs.  Hortense  S.  Hyde. 
(Wife  of  Governor  of  Missouri) . 

FEATHER  PUDDING. 
6  eggs  whites.  1  cup  sugar. 

Coloring.  Whipped  cream. 

Beat  egg  whites  well ;  sift  in  sugar,  still  beating.    Pour  hall 
in  pan  and  color  other  half  pink.      Set  the  pans  in  another  pan  of 
hot  water  and  bake  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Hortense  E.  Hyde, 
(Wife  of  Governor  of  Missouri). 

BRIDAL  CAKE.      (FROM  GEORGIA). 

II  eggs  (whites).  V2  t-spoon  almond  extract. 
1  1/2  cups  sugar.  1/2  t-spoon  cream  of  tartar. 
1  cup  flour. 

Beat  whites  stiff,  add  sugar,  spoonful  at  a  time,  beating  all 
the  while.  Add  flavoring;  then  flour,  little  at  a  time,  in  which 
cream  of  tartar  has  been  sifted.  Bake  in  tube  pan  about  1  hour. 
When  cold,  remove  from  pan  and  slice  in  layers,  or  can  be  baked 
in  layers. 


RECIPES    FROM    FAMOUS    HOMES  19 


CREAM  FILLING. 

2  tbls.  gelatine.  1  pt,  whipped  cream. 
14,  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  pulverized  sugar. 

3  eggs  (whites).  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Add  gelatine  to  cold  water;  dissolve  over  hot  water.  Add 
pulverized  sugar  to  cream,  then  gelatine,  and  well  beaten  egg  whites ; 
stir  until  it  thickens.  Then  pin  a  collar  of  buttered  paper  around 
the  first  layer  so  that  it  stands  above  the  top  of  cake  1/2  inch. 
Spread  a  layer  of  cream  on  cake,  filling  in  the  collar.  Alternate 
layer  of  cake  and  collar  until  all  cakes  are  used.  Cover  with  plain 
icing.  Set  away  until  cold  when  collars  may  be  removed. 
Mrs.  Allen  D.  Candler. — Wife  of  former  Governor  of  Georgia. 

SAUSAGE.      (FROM  GEORGIA). 
66  lbs.  lean  pork.  1/3  cup  red  pepper. 

33  lbs.  fat  pork.  2  1/2  cups  salt. 

5/12  cup  black  pepper.  3  1/3  cups  sage. 

Cut  meat  in  oblong  strips,  one  to  two  inches  thick,  three  to  five 
inches  long.  In  grinding,  alternate  fat  and  lean  meat  in  order 
to  secure  thorough  mixing.  Work  well  through  meat  the  seasoning, 
or  same  can  be  sprinkled  over  meat  before  grinding.  Casings  of 
unbleached  domestic  should  be  made  3  to  5  inches  wide  and  10  to  15 
inches  long,  sewed  up  all  but  one  end.  Fill  with  sausage  and  tie 
with  strong  cord.     One  pound  of  casings  stuffs  50  lbs.  of  sausage. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Hays, 
State  Federation  President  Women's  Clubs. 

PIMENTO  MOUSSE  SALAD. 

1  pt.  cream.  Red  pepper. 

2  pimento'^.  Salt. 

1  cup  cold  water.  Grated  cheese. 

1  package  gelatine. 

Add  gelatine  to  cup  of  cold  water  and  let  stand  half  hour. 
Dissolve  by  setting  in  pan  of  boiling  water.  Whip  cream  stiff, 
add  pimentos  mashed  fine,  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste.  Stir 
dissolved  gelatine  in  mixture  set  on  ice  until  congealed.  Serve 
with  grated  cheese  and  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Hays, 
State  Federation  President. 

DATE  AND  NUT  PUDDING.     (FROM  TENNESSEE). 
1  cup  chopped  nuts.  2/3  cup  flour. 

1  cup  chopped  dates.  2  eggs. 

1/2  cup  sugar.  1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  sift  baking  powder  in  flour,  add  eggs 
beaten  separately  and  lightly,  add  nuts  and  dates  last  and  slightly 
floured,  bake  as  you  would  cake,  when  cold,  slice  and  eat  with 
whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Taylor, 
Wife  of  Governor  of  Tennessee. 


20  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


SNOW  CAKE. 

Whites  of  8  eggs.  1  cup  corn-starch. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  butter.  3  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

Cream  Filling, 
Whip  one  pint  whipped  cream  until  it  resembles  ice  cream  in 
appearance,  make  quite  sweet,  then  flavor  with  vanilla,  spread  the 
layers  of  cake  with  grated  pineapple,  then  cover  thickly  with  the 
cream.    This  filling  should  be  freshly  made. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Taylor, 
Wife  of  Governor  of  Tennessee. 

COCOANUT  DUCHESS  POTATOES. 

3  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes.  6  tbls.  milk. 

3  egg  yolks.  1/4  t-spoon  pepper. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  3  egg  whites. 

Mix  thoroughly  all  the  ingredients  except  egg  whites,  beat  the 
egg  whites  and  fold  in  carefully,  put  the  mixture  in  a  greased  bak- 
ing dish  and  sprinkle  top  lightly  with  cocoanut,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Taylor, 
Wife  of  Governor  of  Tennessee. 


■"Life  is  a 

joint  job 

for  both 

men  and 

women,  and  the 

home 

the  brood 

ing  place 

for  citizenship — 

the 

spiritual  center 

of  th( 

3  universe. 

77 

Mrs. 

Thomas 

^G. 

Winter, 

President, 

General  Federation  of  W 

omen's  Clubs. 

CHAPTER  V. 

QUEEN  SWEET  POTATO. 

Recipes  compiled  by  Mrs.  J.  E.  Hays,  State  President  Federa- 
ted Women's  Clubs. 

A  lowly  sweet  potato  am  I, 
Tho,  you  may  call  me  "a  poor  man's  pie," — 
For  I'm  good  to  eat  without  sugar  or  salt. 
Many  are  my  virtues  and  I  haven't  a  fault. 

The  Sweet  Potato,  a  native  of  the  South,  is  capable  of  being 
served  in  more  tempting  ways  than  any  other  product  of  the  soil — 
it  is  a  vegetable  that  may  be  used  as  a  breakfast  dish,  an  entree 
or  a  dessert,  made  tempting  with  very  little  embellishment. 

Truly  a  "poor  man's  pie,"  given  by  a  generous  Maker!  It 
contains  all  the  necessary  elements,  and  is  easily  digested.  Geor- 
gians should  sing  the  praises  of  Queen  Sweet  Potato,  as  California 
does  the  raisin  and  Ireland  the  "spud." 

ROAST  OPOSSUM,  AND  SWEET  POTATOES 
1  Opossum.  1  dozen  sweet  potatoes. 

Salt.  Black  pepper. 

Dress  and  place  opossum  (whole)  in  large  pan  with  one  and 
one-half  gallons  cold  water;  boil  until  tender.  Drain  and  place  in 
covered  roaster — Surround  with  sweet  potatoes  (which  have  pre- 
viously been  peeled  and  boiled).  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. 

Put  roaster  in  oven  until  both  potatoes  and  possum  are  crisp 
and  brown. 

Mrs.  Norman  Pool. 

FRIED  POTATOES, 
(a).     Peel  and  slice   (not  too  thin),  soak  in  weak  salt  water 
10  minutes,  fry  in  deep  hot  fat,  drain  on  paper.      Serve  hot. 


22  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 

(b).  Bake  large  size  potatoes  and  when  cold,  peel,  slice  and 
fry  brown  in  deep  hot  fat,  salt  and  serve. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

Wash,  trim  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  soft.  If  po- 
tatoes are  slightly  greased  before  baking,  they  bake  more  quickly, 
are  soft  and  easy  to  peel. 

CANDIED  YAMS— (PLAIN). 

(a).  Peel  and  slice  (long  way),  boil  in  clear  weak  salt 
water  until  tender,  sprinkle  liberally  with  sugar,  (spices  may 
be  added  if  liked)  cook  until  brown  and  candied. 

(b).  Thick  slices  of  unpeeled  apples  may  be  added  with  pota- 
toes while  boiling.  Proceed  as  with  (a),  and  you  have  candied 
yams  with  apple  sauce. 

(c).  When  potatoes  are  tender  sprinkle  with  sugar,  grated 
cocoanut,  spice  or  grated  pineapple. 

SWEET  POTATO  SOUFFLE  NO.  1. 

1  cup  nuts.  1/2  cup  seeded  raisins. 

2  tbls.  butter.  1/2  cup  milk. 

2  eggs.  Flavored  as  desired. 

Boil  potatoes  whole  until  very  tender,  peel  and  mash  well,  add 
sugar   (about  1/2  cup  for  baking  dish).      Do  not  have  batter  too 
stiff.      Bake  slowly  until  light  brown.      Place  marshmallows  on 
top,  return  to  oven  long  enough  to  melt  slightly.      Nicest  served 
with  mid-winter  dinner  and  subject  to  many  variations: 
(b) .     Use  half  glass  of  jelly  instead  of  sugar, 
(c).     Add  bananas  sliced  instead  of  nuts  and  raisins, 
(d).     Stick  an  almond  or  cherry  in  marshmallows  for  fancy 
dish.     Add  any  crystallized  fruit  with  nuts  and  raisins. 

(e).  Omit  milk,  add  2  t-spoons  baking  powder  and  1  cup 
cocoanut. 

"PIG-IN-A-PEN." 
Bake  medium  sized  potatoes.  When  well  done,  peel,  mash 
w'ell,  adding  salt  and  pepper.  To  each  potato  add  small  all 
pork  sausage  cake  (cooked) .  Mix  thoroughly,  make  in  cakes,  brown 
in  oven  or  refill  potato  cases  with  mixture.  Can  be  served  "en 
masse"  as  meat  course. 

POTATO  CUSTARD. 
2  small  potatoes.  2  eggs. 

1/3  cup  butter.  %  cup  sugar. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Boil  tender,  peel,  mash;  add  eggs, .butter,  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Mix  thoroughly  (bake  in  rich  crust  and  top  with  meringue). 

POTATO  PIE. 
Peel   and   slice   raw   potatoes   thin;   cook   tender   in    slightly 
salted  water.     Place  all  in  baking  dish,  add  spice,  sugar  to  taste  and 
a  little  butter.     Top  with  rich  crust  and  brown  in  moderate  oven. 

THE  ABOVE  SEVEN  RECIPES  BY  MRS.  OSCAR  McKENZIE,  MONTEZUMA.  GA. 


QUEEN   SWEET  POTATO  23 


SWEET  POTATOES. 
Sweet  potatoes.  Raisins. 

Apples.  H  p-o-lite.    (Marshmallow 

cream). 
Bake  sweet  potatoes.  Peel.  Put  in  bowl.  Make  apple  sauce. 
Put  in  the  same  bowl  an  equal  quantity  of  apple  sauce  and  sweet 
potatoes.  Mash  them  up  together  so  that  you  can't  tell  where  the 
potato  stops  and  the  sauce  begins.  Chuck  into  a  bowl  a  handful  of 
small  sweet  seedless  raisins.  Put  the  whole  batch  into  casserole. 
Cover  with  one-half  inch  of  Hip-o-lite.  Bake  to  your  hearts  con- 
tent, and  serve  hot. 

Mr.  Lewis  Lee, 
Mgr,  Information  Dept.  Georgia  Railway  &  Power  Co. 

SWEET  POTATO  DELIGHT. 
2  potatoes  (medium  sized).  1  box  seedless  raisins. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  box  shredded  cocoanut. 

1  cup  nuts.  20  marshmallows. 

Add  potatoes  peeled  and  sliced  thin  to  sauce  pan,  cover  with 
sugar  and  water;  cook  until  tender,  place  alternately  layers  of 
potatoes,  cocoanut  and  raisins  sprinkled  with  nuts.  Add  syrup  in 
which  potatoes  were  candied  and  cover  with  marshmallows.  Cook 
in  moderate  oven  until  a  golden  brown.  Serve  in  dish  in  which  it 
is  cooked. 

Mrs.  John  O.  Teasley, 

Lilly,  Ga. 

RAISIN  POTATOES. 
Peal  three  potatoes  and  steam  till  done.      Mash  well.      Add 
lump  of  butter  about  size  of  egg;  IV2  cups  sugar;  1/3  cup  raisins. 
Bake  till  brown.      Pacify  the  family  by  promising  a  bigger  dish 
tomorrow. 

Mrs.  Otis  DeVaughn, 

Montezuma,  Ga. 

SWEET  POTATO  SOUFFLE  NO.  II. 
6  medium  sized  potatoes.  2  tbls.  butter. 

1/2  cup  of  sugar.  1  small  can  of  marshmallow 

%,  cup  of  pecan  meats.  paste. 

Boil  potatoes — run  through  potato  masher — cream  until  light 
and  fluffy.  Add  sugar — melted  butter — pecan  meats.  Place  in 
baking  dish — cover  with  marshmallow  paste — run  in  oven  until 
brown. 

Mrs.  Norman  Sharp. 
SWEET  POTATO  SOUFFLE  NO.  III. 

2  cups  sweet  potatoes.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  hot  milk.  1  t-spoon  nutmeg. 

2  tbls.  sugar.  1/2  cup  seeded  raisins. 
1/2  t-spoon  salt.  1/2  cup  walnut  meats. 
2  tbls.  butter.  i/|  doz.  marshmallows. 


24  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


Mash  potatoes  well.  Heat  milk  and  dissolve  sugar  and  salt 
in  it.  Add  butter,  stirring  until  melted.  Add  this  mixture  to 
potatoes  and  beat  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  nutmeg,  raisins  and 
nuts.  Fold  in  well  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  mixture  into  buttered 
baking  dish ;  arrange  marshmallows  one-half  inch  apart  on  top. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  the  Souffle  is  set  and  the  marshmal- 
lows a  delicate  brown.     Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Paden. 

CANDIED  POTATOES. 

Slice  steamed  potatoes  in  half  inch  slices.  Add  butter  and 
brown  sugar  abundantly,  with  enough  water  to  make  a  syrup.  Add 
also  a  little  molasses  or  cane  syrup.  Flavor  with  cinnamon.  Let 
cook  slowly  for  a  good  while  till  syrup  is  thick  and  potatoes  brown. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Richardson, 

Montezuma,  Ga. 

SWEET  POTATO   CROQUETTES.— NO.  I. 
Mash  steamed  potatoes.     Add  butter,  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  and 
egg.      Shape  into  croquettes,  roll  in  flour  and  fry.      Better  make 
more  than  two  apiece  for  each  of  the  family  to  avoid  trouble. 

Mrs.  T.  A.  Dixon, 
Montezuma,  Ga. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES.— NO.  II. 

4  medium  size  potatoes.  1  tbls.  cream. 

1  egg.  1/4,  t-spoon  salt. 

1  cup  chopped  pecan  meats.  1  tbls.  butter. 

Boil  unpeeled  potatoes  until  done.  Remove  peelings  and  mash 
fine.  Add  butter,  cream,  pecan  meats,  salt.  Mix  well,  mold  into  ob- 
long shapes.  Roll  in  well  beaten  eggs,  then  cracker  dust,  fry  in 
hot  fat  until  light  brown.  Drain  on  paper.  These  are  nice  served 
with  creamed  toast. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Mudd, 

Kentucky. 

CREAMED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

3  sweet  potatoes.  i/4  lb,  marshmallows. 

1  cup  milk.  1/8  lb.  butter. 

1/2  cup  sugar.  1  can  or  package  cocoanut. 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  tender;  peel  and  cream  while  hot, 
stirring  into  the  potatoes  the  butter,  sugar  and  milk.  Add  last  the 
cocoanut.  Place  mixture,  which  should  be  soft  in  baking  dish; 
cover  over  the  top  with  marshmallows  and  brown  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  T.  T.  Stevens, 
President,  Fifth  District. 

POTATO  CAKES. 

Peel,  steam  and  mash  several  potatoes ;  add  butter,  a  pinch  of 


QUEEN   SWEET  POTATO  25 


salt — an  egg  or  two,  and  as  many  pecan  meats  as  you  have.     Shape 
into  little  cakes  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Jere  M.  Moore, 

Montezuma,Ga. 

OSCAR  POTATOES. 

Steam  potatoes  until  nearly  done,  peel  and  cut  into  slices  about 
1/2  inch  thick.  Slice  tart  apples,  put  alternate  layers  potatoes  and 
apples  with  potatoes  on  top,  add  sugar  to  taste,  bits  of  butter,  a 
little  salt  and  very  little  water.  Bake  until  there  is  a  thick  syrup 
and  potatoes  are  brown  on  top.     Oh,  Oscar !  Oscar ! 

Mrs.  Jake  Happ, 
Montezuma,  Ga. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING  NO  I. 

3  cups  grated  potatoes.  2  cups  milk. 

5  eggs.  1  cup  syrup. 

11/2  cups  sugar.  1  tbls.  butter. 

1/2  t-spoon  mixed  spices  ground. 
"Beat  sugar,  butter  and  eggs;  add  potatoes,  sugar  and  milk, 
then  flavoring.    Pour  in  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.      When 
top  is  brown  stir  in  and  let  second  crust  form. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Sibley. 

POTATO  PUDDING  NO.  II. 

3  potatoes  (good  sized)  2  eggs. 

1  cup  milk.  1/2  t-spoon    nutmeg    or    cinna- 

2  tbls.  sugar.  mon. 
1/4  t-spoon  salt.                                2  tbls.  butter. 

2  egg  whites. 

Peel  and  grate  potatoes,  add  milk,  butter,  eggs,  sugar,  spices; 
mix  thoroughly,  place  in  greased  pan,  bake  covered  in  moderate 
oven  half  an  hour,  then  uncover,  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
in  which  tablespoon  of  sugar  has  been  added.  Return  to  oven  and 
brown  slightly.     Serve  hot  with  cream,  plain  or  whipped. 

Mrs.  D.  W.  Easterlin. 

Montezuma,  Ga. 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE. 

3  or  4  msdium  sized  potatoes.       V2  cup  brown  sugar. 

4  eggs.  1/2  cup  molasses. 
1  cup  milk.                                         3  tbls.  butter. 
1/3  t-spoon  each  allspice,  cinna- 
mon, cloves  and  nutmeg. 

Pare  and  wash  the  potatoes,  grind  in  food  chopper,  beat  eggs 
with  sugar.  Add  butter,  molasses,  milk  and  spices.  Mix  well. 
Bake  45  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

Contributed  by  G.  A.  Cardwell,  Agricultural  and  Industrial 
Agent,  Atlantic  Coast  Line  Railway. 


26  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


SWEET  POTATO  MERINGUE. 

6  medium  sized  potatoes.  2  eggs. 

1  tbls.  sugar.  Salt  to  taste. 

1/4  cup  milk. 

Boil  potatoes  until  tender ;  peel  and  mash,  adding  sugar,  milk, 
yolks  of  eggs  and  salt.  Beat  hard  for  5  minutes  until  potatoes  are 
very  light  and  creamy.  Pile  lightly  into  a  dish  and  bake  for  1/2 
hour.  Remove  from  oven,  add  egg  whites  beaten  stiff ;  return  to 
oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  P.  R.  Brittain. 

CREAMED  SWELT  POTATOES. 


1/2  pt.  cream. 

3  eggs. 

1  tbls.  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1/2  cup  water. 

2  tbls.  sifted  flour. 

2  t-spoons  baking  powdei". 

Other  seasoning  to  taste, 

Thoroughly  steam  potatoes,  peel  and  mash.  Mix  thoroughly, 
cream,  butter,  eggs,  sugar,  water,  flour  in  which  baking  powder 
has  been  sifted.  Put  other  seasoning  if  desired.  Bake  in  muffin 
rings  or  deep  pan  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Cheves, 
Montezuma,  Ga. 


CHAPTER  VI. 


ATLANTA  WOMAN'S  CLUB  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 

Chaiiman,  Mrs.  Katherine  Fitts. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN. 

(Original  recipe  used  only  for  the  Woman's  Club.) 
11/2  cups  cold  chicken,  cut  in       3  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  dice 
dice.  like  chicken. 

1  cup  rich  white  sauce.  1/2  of  a  canned  pimento,  cut  in 
1/2  cup  rich  chicken  stock.  strips. 

1  cup  of  celery,  diced. 
For  seasoning  use  salt,  pepper,   (white),  and  paprika.      Heat 
ingredients  in  white  sauce. 

BROILED  CHICKEN. 

2  broilers.  Butter. 

Sprig  of  parsley.  Green  corn  fritters. 

Clean,  wipe  and  split  down  the  back  2  broilers.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  place  in  greased  broiler  and  cook  over  dripping 
pan  in  hot  oven  for  20  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and  broil 
under  gas  flame  until  a  golden  brown,  basting  3  times  with  butter. 
Remove  from  broiler  to  hot  platter,  spread  with  butter  and  finely 
chopped  parsley.  Surround  with  corn  fritters  and  sprigs  of  parsley, 

CARROT  PUDDING. 

1  cup  carrots   (ground).  1  cup  sugar  (scant). 

1  cup  Irish  potatoes  (ground).       1/2  t-spoon  salt. 
1  cup  nuts  (ground) .  1/2  t-spoon  cloves. 

2/3  cup  suet  (ground).  1  t-spoon  nutmeg. 

1  cup  dates  (cut).  1/2  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

1  cup  raisins  (cut).  1/2  t-spoon  soda. 

1  cup  flour  (scant). 

Cream  suet  and  sugar,  add  soda  dissolved  in  water,  then  the 
other  ingredients,  turn  into  buttered  molds  and  steam  4  hours. 
Serve  with  sea  foam  sauce,  also  hard  sauce. 

GREEN  CORN  FRITTERS. 

2  cups  scraped  corn.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

2  egg  yolks  (slightly  beaten).       %  t-spoon  white  pepper. 

2  tbls.  butter.  1  cup  flour. 

2  tbls.  sugar.  2  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

Fold  in  whites  of  eggs  stiffly  beaten.  Drop  from  spoon  in  hot 
deep  fat  and  fry.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve  with  fried 
chicken,  broiled  chicken  or  any  meat  suitable  for  summer. 


28  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


HOT  TEA  MUFFINS.      (Original). 
2  cups  flour.  3  tbls.  melted  butter. 

1  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1/4  cup  sugar.  4  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

2  eggs. 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  eggs  well  beaten.  Then  add  milk 
alternately  with  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  remaining  ingredients. 
Drop  in  greased  pans  and  bake  in  hot  oven  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

SOUTHERN  BROWN  BREAD.      (Original). 

1  cup  corn  meal.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

2  cups  Graham  flour.  2  t-spoons  soda. 

3/4  cup  sorghum.  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

1  cup  buttermilk. 

Mix  and  sift  soda  with  dry  ingredients,  add  molasses  and  milk, 
add  raisins  last,  turn  into  well  greased  pound  molds  filled  2/3  full ; 
steam  three  hours.  For  steaming,  place  mold  on  trivet  in  kettle 
containing  water,  boiling  hot,  allowing  water  to  come  up  around 
mold ;  cover  and  steam,  adding  water  as  needed. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  31/2  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  t-spoons  baking  powder. 
1  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 
Whites  6  eggs. 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beating.  Mix 
and  sift  baking  powder  and  flour  several  times,  and  add  alternately 
with  milk  to  first  mixture.  Add  flavoring.  Cut  and  fold  in  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Turn  into  three  seven-inch  square 
tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Put  layers  together  with  fruit 
and  nut  filling  and  cover  sides  and  top  of  cake  with  ice-cream  frost- 
ing. 

FRUIT  AND  NUT  FILLING. 
8  cups  sugar.  1  cup  pecan  meats. 

1  cup  water.  5  figs. 

Whites  3  eggs.  1  tbls.  lemon  juice. 

1/2  doz.  cherries.  1  cup  raisins. 

'Seed  and  chop  raisins  and  pecan  meats.  Cut  figs  in  thin  strips. 
Cut  cherries  in  fine  pieces.  Put  sugar  and  water  in  smooth  granite 
saucepan,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  syrup  will  form 
a  dry,  hard  ball  in  coM  water.  Pour  gradually  over  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites  until  mixture  is  of  right  consistency  to  spread; 
then  add  other  ingredients  and  spread  over  cake. 

ICE-CREAM  FROSTING. 

2  cups  sugar.  Whites  4  eggs. 

1/2  cup  water.  1/2  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  smooth  granite  saucepan.  Let  boil 
until  syrup  forms  a  dry  ball  in  cold  water.     Pour  gradually,  while 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  RECIPES  29 

beating  constantly,  on  whites  of  eggs  (beaten  stiff,  but  not  dry) ,  and 
continue  beating  until  mixture  is  of  right  consistency  to  spread. 
Add  flavoring. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

2/3  cup  butter.  II4  cups  sugar. 

1-2/3  cups  flour.  2/3  cup  candied  cherries. 

14  t-spoon  soda.  1/3  cup  almonds. 

1/2  tbls.  lemon  juice.  1/2  cup  citron. 

Whites  6  eggs.  1  t-spoon  almond  extract. 

Blanch  and  shred  almonds.  Slice  citron  thin.  Cream  butter, 
adding  gradually,  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  soda ;  then  add  lemon 
juice.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  adding  sugar  gradually. 
Combine  these  two  mixtures  and  add  fruit  and  extract.  Bake  in 
deep  pan  1  hour. 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE. 

1/2  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  21/2  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

3  whole  eggs.  1/2  cup  milk  or  cold  coffee. 

4  oz.  chocolate.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Cream  butter ;  add  sugar,  melted  chocolate,  the  whole  eggs,  and 
beat  until  smooth.  Let  this  cool.  Add  vanilla  and  one-half  the 
amount  of  flour,  in  which  has  been  sifted  the  baking  powder.  Then 
add  milk  or  coffee  and  remaining  flour,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Bake 
in  round  tins.     Put  together  with  thick  white  frosting. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  CANDY. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  tbls.  butter. 

2/3  cup  cream.  4  squares  chocolate. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Put  butter  into  granite  saucepan ;  when  melted,  add  sugar  and 
cream.  Heat  to  boiling  point.  Add  chocolate,  stirring  constantly 
until  chocolate  is  melted.  Boil  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  in  cold 
water.  Remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla  and  beat  until  creamy.  Pour 
into  buttered  pan,  cool  slightly,  and  mark  in  squares.  Any  fruit 
or  chopped  nuts  may  be  added  if  desired. 

PARISIAN  SWEETS. 
1  lb.  figs.  1  lb.  English  walnuts. 

1  lb.  dates.  Confectioners'  sugar. 

Run  fruit  and  nuts  through  a  food-chopper.  Work  mixture 
with  the  hands  on  board  dredged  with  confectioners'  sugar,  until 
well  blended.  Roll  to  1/4  inch  thickness,  using  confectioners'  sugar 
for  dredging  board  and  pin.  Shape  with  any  fancy  cutter.  Roll 
in  sugar  and  pack  in  layers  in  a  tin  box,  putting  paper  between  each 
layer. 


CHAPTER  VII. 


NEEDFUL  FACTS  FOR  HOUSEWIVES. 

TERMS   USED   IN   COOKING. 

Aspic — A  jelly  usually  made  with  gelatine,  and  made  of  meats, 
fish,  vegetables  or  fruits.    Also  used  as  a  salad  course. 

A.  la  Creole — Cooked  with  onions,  peppers  and  tomatoes. 

Au  Gratin — Usually  with  cheese — baked  or  cooked  with  brown 
crumbs. 

Bechamel — A  very  rich  white  sauce  made  with  milk  or  cream  and 
stock. 

Bisque — A  thick  sauce  or  soup,  generally  made  from  shellfish,  but 
also  from  rabbits,  game,  etc. 

Blanch — To  whiten  by  scalding. 

Bouillon — A  meat  broth. 

Braise — To  stew  or  cook  in  a  closely-covered  stewpan  with  vege- 
tables. 

Canape — An  appetizer,  composed  of  a  finger  strip  of  toast,  spread 

with  some  savory  mixture,  such  as  fish  or  egg,  and  daintily  gar- 
nished. 

Entree — A  savory  dish,  served  either  as  a  course  by  itself,  or  be- 
tween heavier  courses  as  at  a  dinner. 

Fondue — 'Eggs  and  cheese  cooked  together. 

Frappe — Half-frozen. 

Glace — Glazed  over.  Iced  or  brushed  over  the  egg-white,  or  boiled 
down  to  a  glaze,  in  savory  dishes  with  meat  stock. 

Hors  d'  Oeuvres — Small  dishes  served  during  the  first  course  of  a 
dinner. 

Marinate — To  let  stand  for  some  time  in  a  mixture  of  seasoning — 
usually  oil  and  vinegar  or  oil  and  lemon  juice. 

Meringue — Sugar  and  egg-white  beaten  together. 

Mousse — Savory  or  sweet.  A  light  frothy  mixture,  thickened 
usually  with  gelatine,  whipped  with  a  whisk,  and  when  spongy 
in  texture,  pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  several  hours. 


ECONOMY    IN    GAS  31 


Pate — A  shell  made  of  puff -paste,  containing  savory  or  sweet. 

Puree — Vegetables,  fish,  meats,  etc.,  cooked  till  tender,  then  passed 
through  a  sieve. 

Saute — Cooked  brown  in  a  shallow  pan,  with  little  fat. 

Fry — Cooked  brown  in  deep  fat. 

Souffle — Savory  or  sweet.  Puffed  up  and  made  light  by  well- 
beaten  eggs. 


ECONOMY  IN   GAS. 
Every  house-wife  may  save  time  and  money  by  observing  the 
following: 

I.  Have  the  gas  man  regulate  the  flame,  so  that  it  will  burn 
blue. 

II.  Don't  use  the  large  burners  for  small  utensils. 

III.  After  foods  come  to  a  boil,  use  the  burner  for  simmering. 

IV.  Always  turn  off  the  gas,  before  removing  vessels  from 
the  stove. 

V.  Don't  allow  burners  to  become  clogged  with  grease. 

VI.  A  large  steamer  may  be  used  for  cooking  several  foods 
at  once. 

VII.  Make  use  of  fireless  cooker  and  pressure  cooker. 

VIII.  Triplet  kettles,  and  double  folding  omelet  pans  may  be 
used  for  cooking  two  or  more  things  at  once. 

IX.  When  baking  or  cooking  a  meal,  cook  several  things  at 
once.  A  whole  dinner  may  be  prepared  in  the  oven  by  having  a 
roast,  etc.,  and  baked  potatoes,  vegetables  en  casserole,  and  a  baked 
dessert. 

X.  Although  the  heat  should  be  turned  on  an  oven  (both 
burners)  five  or  ten  minutes  before  using — in  most  cases  one 
burner  may  be  turned  off  or  both  burners  turned  lower,  after  food 
is  placed  within. 

XL  Every  good  cook  should  have  a  chemical  thermometer  to 
test  oven  heat,  and  this  is  more  easily  done  when  the  stove  has  a 
glass  front  as  opening  the  oven  door  causes  a  drop  in  temperature. 
There  is  no  such  thing  as  "luck"  in  cooking.  If  the  conditions  are 
controlled  by  the  house-wife  as  they  should  be,  the  results  will  al- 
ways be  the  same.  ^ 


THE  TEMPERATURE  TABLE. 
Copy  and  Hang  on  Wall  Near  Stove. 
Product  to  be  Baked.        Range  of  Temperature  Over  Which  It 

May  be  Baked. 
Biscuits,  baking  powder.. 400   F.  to  500°  F. 

Bread   350°  F.  to  450°  F.    (Begin  low  and  raise 

temperature   rapidly,    reducing   again,    or 
begin  high  and  reduce  sharply.) 


32  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


Cakes   300    F.  to  400    F.,  according  to  size.     Or, 

Angel  Food  put  a  six-egg  cake  (turk's-head  pan)  into 

400'  F.  oven ;  when  it  begins  to  brown, 
turn  gas  out  for  5  to  10  minutes,  then 
raise  to  330  F.,  then  at  last  to  370'  F. 
(These  temperatures  are  approximate  and 
cannot  be  expected  to  fit  all  cases  exactly.) 

Cookies 375°  F.  to  400    F. 

Cup  Cakes 300   F.  to  400°  F. 

Ginger  Bread 370   F.  to  400°  F. 

Layer  Cake 300°  F.  to  400°  F.  (Begin  low,  raise  grad- 
ually.) 

Loaf  Cake 280°  F.  to  375°  F.  (Begin  low,  raise  tem- 
perature very  gradually  at  first,  then  more 
rapidly.) 

Sponge  Cake 300°  F.  to  400   F.  (See  angel  food.) 

Custard 250°  F.  to  350°  F.   (Or  set  in  pan  of  hot 

water,  and  use  350  F.  to  450  F.  oven 
temperature.) 

Meat,  Roasted 400°  F.  to  500°  F.,  then  350   F.  to  250°  F. 

(Sear  at  the  highest  temperature  men- 
tioned or  else  in  heavy  kettle  or  skillet  on 
top  of  range,  reduce  sharply  and  finish  at 
a  lower  temperature.) 

Muffins 400  F.  to  450°  F. 

Pastry  (no  filling)   450°  F.  to  550°  F. 

Pies  (uncooked  filling)  .  .450°   F.   to  400    F.    (Put   into   hot   oven, 

lower  when  it  begins  to  color.) 

Popovers    450°  F.  to  350   F. 

Potatoes 400°  F.  to  500°  F.  (or  at  lower  tempera- 
tures, increasing  the  time  according  to  the 
reduction  in  temperatures.) 

Puddings    350°  F.  to  400°  F.  (If  high  in  eggs  or  milk, 

bake  like  custard.) 

Rolls   400°  F.  to  450°  F. 

Souffle 350°  F.  to  400    F.  (See  custard.) 

From  December,  1920,  "Journal  of  Home  Economics". 
Issued  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 

COOKING  BY  RULE. 

Measure!  Whether  by  cup  or  spoon  the  only  sure  way  to  secure 
success  is  by  accurate  measurement. 

All  measures  should  be  lerel  and  only  standard  vessels  used. 
Only  an  experienced  house-keeper  repeating  her  own  recipes,  can 
measure  by  eye,  or  by  weight  of  an  object  in  her  hand. 

It  is  necessary  to  have  in  every  kitchen  a  set  of  measures 
(quart,  pint  and  half -pint;  graduated  measures  divided  into 
quarters,  halves  and  thirds  are   best).     For  liquids  a   glass  cup 


TIME    TABLE    FOR    COOKING  33 


divided  and  marked  on  the  outside  in  iA-V2-%  and  1  cup,  one  side 

of  the  cup ;  while  on  the  other  is  marked  1/3,  2/3  and  1  cup,  Avill 

eliminate  guess  work. 

A  set  of  accurate  scales  is  an  absolute  necessity  in  the  kitchen 
A  set  of  aluminum  measuring  spoons  are  necessary.      They 

measure  1  tbls.,  1  t-spoon,  1/2  t-spoon  and  l^  t-spoon. 

WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

4  tbls 1  wineglass  4  cups  sifted  flour 1  lb. 

4  wineglasses    1   cup  9  large  eggs 1  lb. 

1  cup    1  pint  2  cups  granulated  sugar  .  .  1  lb. 

4  cups 1  quart  21/2  cups  powdered  sugar .  .  1  lb. 

3  t-spoons  liquid 1  tbls.  2  tbls.  butter  (level) 1  oz. 

1  gill   Yz  cup  4  level  tbls.  flour 1  oz. 

16  tbls.  liquid 1  cup  2  cups  butter  (solid) 1  lb. 

3  tbls.  grated  choc 1  oz.  1  qt.  sifted  corn  meal .  1  lb.  1  oz. 

BOILING. 

Corned  meats 4  to  6  hours 

Ox  tongue 3  to  4  hours 

Ham — 12  to  14  lbs 4  to  5  hours 

Turkey— 10  lbs 3  to  31/2  hours 

Fowl — 4  to  5  lbs 4  to  5  hours 

Chicken — 3  lbs 1  to  li/o  hours 

Fish — 2  to  5  lbs 30  to  45  minutes 

Lobster 25  to  30  minutes 

Asparagus 20  to  30  minutes 

Beans,  shell,  string  or  snap 1  to  3  hours 

Beets,  young 50  minutes 

Beets,  old 3  to  4  hours 

Brussels  sprouts 15  to  20  minutes 

Cabbage 35  to  60  minutes 

Carrots    1  hour 

Cauliflower 25  to  30  minutes 

Corn 12  to  20  minutes 

Macaroni 25  to  30  minutes 

Turnips  and  parsnips 30  to  45  minutes 

Onions  45  to  60  minutes 

Spinach 15  to  20  minutes 

Tomatoes,  stewed 15  to  20  minutes 

Rice 20  to  30  minutes 

BROILING. 

Steak — 1  inch 4  to  10  minutes 

Steak — 11/2  inch  thick 8  to  12  minutes 

Lamb  or  mutton  chops 6  to  10  minutes 

Chicken   20  minutes 

Quails 8  minutes 

Squabs 10  to  12  minutes 

Shad,  white  fish  and  blue  fish 15  to  20  minutes 


34  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUE   COOK  BOOK 


Fish,  slices  12  to  15  minutes 

Liver  4  to  5  minutes 

TIME  TABLE  FOR  COOKING. 
BAKING. 

Mutton,  leg  rare per  pound 10  minutes 

Mutton,  forequarter "        "      15  to  25  minutes. 

Mutton,  leg,  well  done "        "      14  to  20  minutes 

Lamb,  well  done "        "      15  to  20  minutes 

Beef,  loin  or  ribs,  rare "         "      8  to  10  minutes 

Beef,  loin  or  ribs,  well  done "         "      12  to  16  minutes 

Beef,  ribs,  rolled,  rare "        "      12  to  15  minutes 

Beef,  ribs,  rolled,  well  done "         "      15  to  18  minutes 

Beef,  fillet,  rare "        "      20  to  30  minutes 

Veal,  well  done "        "      18  to  22  minutes 

Pork,  well  done "         "      20  to  25  minutes 

Chicken    "        "      15  to  20  minutes 

Turkey — 9  lbs 3  hours 

Goose — 9  lbs 21/2  hours 

Duck,  domestic 1  to  II/4,  hours 

Duck,  wild 20  to  30  minutes 

Ham,  whole 4  to  6  hours 

Fish — 3  to  4  lbs 45  to  60  minutes 

Small  fish  and  fillets 20  minutes 

Bread,  white — loaf 45  to  60  minutes 

Graham,  loaf 35  to  45  minutes 

Baking  powder  biscuits 12  to  15  minutes 

Gems  or  muffins 25  to  30  minutes 

Cookies   8  to  10  minutes 

Gingerbread 20  to  30  minutes 

Cake,  sponge 45  to  60  minutes 

Cake,  layer 20  to  30  minutes 

Cake,  loaf 40  to  60  minutes 

Cake,  fruit   2  to  3  hours 

Cake,  wedding 3  to  5  hours 

Cake,  small 15  to  25  minutes 

Pies 30  to  50  minutes 

Tarts  15  to  20  minutes 

Patties 15  to  25  minutes 

Pudding,  rice  or  tapioca 1  hour 

Puddings,  bread 45  to  60  minutes 

Scallop  dishes 15  to  20  minutes 

Custard 35  to  45  minutes 

Custard  in  cups 20  to  25  minutes 

FRYING. 

Smelts  and  other  small  fish 3  to  5  minutes 

Breaded  chops 5  to  8  minutes 


BALANCED    MEALS  35 


Potatoes,  raw 4  to  8  minutes 

Fish  balls  and  croquettes 1  minute 

Muffins,  fritters  and  doughnuts 3  to  5  minutes 

Eggs,  hard  boiled 10  minutes 

Eggs,  soft  boiled 31/2  to  4  minutes 

EVERY  MEAL  SHOULD  CONTAIN. 

1  protein  dish(  meats). 

2  carbohydrate  dishes  (bread  and  cereals). 
1  mineral  dish  (green  vegetable). 

1  fat  dish  (butter,  etc.). 
1  water  dish  (beverage). 

TO  HAVE  A  BALANCED  MEAL. 

Plan  your  menus  for  the  day  with  this  in  mind  if  it  is  not 
possible  to  give  all  the  values  at  one  meal. 

PROTEINS— Milk,   Meat,   Eggs,   Poultry,   Fish,    Cheese,   Le- 
gumes, Nuts  and  Cereals. 

CARBOHYDRATES— Cereals,      Potatoes,      Rice,      Bananas, 
Breads,  Macaroni  and  Tapioca. 

MINERALS — Fruits,  Green  vegetables.  Tomatoes,  Cauliflower, 
Cabbage  and  Onions. 

FATS — Cream,  Butter,  Oleo,  Meat  fats.  Vegetable  fats  and  Nut 
oils. 

Milk  should  have  a  part  in  the  meals  every  day.     It  is  an  es- 
sential for  adults  as  well  as  children. 

Food  supplying  vitamins — necessary  elements  for  health  are 
Milk,  Whole  grain.  Legumes,  Spinach,  Cabbage,  Onions,  Carrots, 
Turnips,  Beets,  Tomatoes,  Oranges  and  Eggs. 
Miss  M.  P.  Means,  Instructor  Home  Economics  Girl's  High  School. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 


Mrs. 


BREAKFASTS. 

FRUITS  IN  SEASON. 
Norman  Sharp — Chairman  City  Market. 


Most  essential  from  the  standpoint  of  hygiene  is  the  inclusion 
of  fruit  in  the  daily  diet,  and  this  in  Atlanta  is  a  simple  matter,  for 
farmers  supplying  Atlanta's  Municipal  Curb  Market  furnish  a  con- 
tinuous rotation  of  fruits  during  the  entire  year. 

Beginning  with  the  early  spring  the  strawberry  is  the  first 
and  one  of  the  most  delightful  fruits.  Strawberries  are 
usually  served  with  cream  and  sugar  and  are  delightful  appetizers, 
with  which  to  begin  the  breakfast  menu.  Following  the  straw- 
berry come  the  no  less  popular  raspberry  and  blackberry  which 
are  served  with  cream  and  sugar  as  the  first  course.  The  dew- 
berry, a  species  of  blackberry,  is  popular  also.  Cherries  served 
on  individual  platters  with  the  stems  on  make  an  attractive  break- 
fast dish. 

The  Georgia  peach,  famous  the  world  over  is  well  adapted  foi 
a  breakfast  fruit.  An  attractive  breakfast  is  served  with  whole 
peeled  peaches  on  individual  platters,  in  the  center  of  which  is  a 
sugar  bowl  surrounded  with  peeled  peaches  and  garnished  with 
green  peach  leaves. 

Then  comes  the  cantaloupe  and  honey-dew  melon,  which  may 
be  served  in  many  artistic  and  attractive  ways — peeled,  halved  and 
served  with  crushed  ice  is  one  of  the  most  practical  methods  of 
serving  cantaloupe  as  a  breakfast  fruit.  Some  enjoy  iced  water- 
melon also,  a  fruit  for  which  Georgia  is  famous.  Figs  peeled  and 
served  whole  with  cream  and  sugar  constitute  a  delicious  breakfast 
course.  Later  come  the  plum  and  grape,  which  are  served  most 
attractively  in  a  large  fruit  bowl,  which  graces  the  center  of  the 
breakfast  table  and  is  passed  and  served  from  individually.    Scup- 


BREAKFAST  37 

pernongs,  a  light  green,  and  muscadines,  a  purple  brown,  are  thick 
skinned  and  resemble  grapes. 

For  the  fall  and  winter  breakfast  the  apple  reigns  supreme  and 
may  be  prepared  in  a  variety  of  appetizing  ways.  Perhaps  the  most 
popular  is  the  baked  apple.  Apple  sauce  is  another  favorite 
Southern  breakfast  course.  To  prepare,  peel  apples,  quarter 
and  stew  until  tender  with  a  few  slices  of  lemon ;  after  which  rub 
through  colander  with  spices,  sweeten  to  taste  and  serve  cold  with 
or  without  cream. 

During  the  winter  months  Georgia  calls  on  her  sister  state, 
Florida,  for  grapefruit  and  oranges,  which  may  be  served  in  many 
ways  and  are  used  extensively  for  breakfast  menus. 


BREAKFAST  CEREALS, 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle,  Chairman  Cook  Book. 

Of  the  many  varieties  of  cereals,  all  are  lacking  in  fats,  so  they 
are  more  nutritious  if  butter  or  cream  and  sugar  are  served  with 
the  cooked  cereals  (only  cream  and  sugar  with  the  uncooked) .  Most 
cooked  cereals  are  very  indigestible  if  cooked  less  than  one  hour. 
When  preparing  the  evening  meal,  cook  cereal  in  a  double  boiler 
for  an  hour  or  more,  then  place  (covered)  on  back  of  stove.  Next 
morning  add  boiling  water  to  lower  boiler  and  upper  boiler  if  cereal 
is  too  thick.     Cook  10  to  15  minutes  and  serve. 

Rolled  or  Quaker  Oats  should  be  put  to  cook  in  boiling  salted 
water,proportions  1  t-spoon  of  salt  to  1  qt.  of  water,  and  will  cook 
quicker  if  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water.  To  keep  out  insects, 
when  cereals  are  opened  contents  should  be  placed  in  glass  fruit 
jars  with  lids  screwed  on  tightly. 

OATMEAL— ROLLED  OR  QUAKER  OATS. 
1  cup  oats  or  oatmeal.  3  cups  boiling  water. 

1/2  t-spoon   salt, 
'stir  oats  and  salt  gradually  in  boiling  water.      If  cooked  ovei 
direct  heat,  cook  slowly,   (stirring  occasionally)   about  40  minutes 
or  cook  in  double  boiler  one  to  two  hours.      May  be  placed  in  fire- 
less  cooker  over  night. 

CREAM  OF  WHEAT. 
1/2  cup  cream  of  wheat.  21/2  cups  water. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

Add  salt  to  boiling  water,  stir  in  cream  of  wheat  and  continue 
stirring  a  few  moments  to  prevent  lumping.  Cook  slowly  over 
direct  heat  20  minutes  or  more,  or  in  double  boiler  one  hour  or 
more.  Can  be  placed  in  tireless  cooker  three  or  four  hours.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar. 


38  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S  CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


FINE  HOMINY  OR  GRITS— SOUTHERN. 
Grits,  like  corn  meal,  absorb  a  great  deal  of  water  in  cooking. 
Cook  as  other  cereals  or  leave  in  fireless  cooker  over  night.  May 
be  eaten  with  butter  or  gravy.  Pack  while  warm  in  one-pound 
baking  powder  cans,  cool,  turn  out  and  cut  in  slices,  dip  in  flour, 
saute  in  bacon  drippings  a  golden  brown.  Serve  bacon  crisp  on 
hominy  slices  for  breakfast. 

STEAMED  RICE. 
1  cup  rice.  3  cups  water. 

1  t-spoon  salt. 

Wash  rice  and  pour  slowly  in  water  boiling  briskly.  Add  salt 
and  cook  until  grains  are  tender,  drain  in  colander,  serve  with  sugai 
and  cream,  raisins  may  be  added.  Rice  should  be  cooked  in  double 
boiler. 

BAKED  SHREDDED  WHEAT. 

Shredded  wheat  is  delicious,  when  divided  into  two  parts  by  a 
sharp  knife,  each  part  being  buttered,  placed  in  the  oven  and 
heated  till  crisp.  It  tastes  very  much  like  pop-corn,  and  may  be 
eaten  as  a  sandwich  or  with  milk  and  sugar. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 


ONE  OF  MRS.  THORNTON'S  FAVORITE  BREAKFAST 

DISHES. 

1  cup  meal.  II/2  cups  well   cooked  grits  or 

1/2  cup  boiling  water.  hominy. 

1  tbls.  Royal  baking  powder.         1  cup  milk. 
Butter  size  of  walnut.  3  eggs. 

Salt  to  taste. 

Put  in  mixing  bowl  butter,  salt,  meal,  hominy  and  milk ;  mash 
fine,  beat  a  few  minutes,  then  stir  in  hot  water.  Add  eggs,  baking 
powder  and  beat  well.     Bake  in  shallow  pan. 

Mrs.  Albert  Thornton, 
Pres.  Atlanta  City  Federation  Women's  Clubs. 

A  NEW  ENGLAND  BREAKFAST. 

Apple  sauce. 

Fish  balls  and  bacon.  Fried  Indian  pudding. 

Maple  syrup.  Coffee. 

FISH  BALLS. 

1  cup  cod  fish.  1  egg. 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes.  1  lump  butter. 

Freshen  cod  fish  slightly  and  cook,  about  a  minute ;  chop 
fine.  Beat  all  ingredients  together  till  well  blended,  and  sea- 
son.    Form  into  cakes,  dip  into  meal  and  fry  in  bacon  or  fat. 


BREAKFAST  39 


FRIED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

1  qt.  water.  1  tbls.  flour. 

1  cup  Indian  meal  (yellow). 

Into  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  turn  in  slowly  the  meal 
stirring  constantly.  1  tbls.  flour  added,  will  help  hold  it  together, 
when  later  it  is  sliced  for  frying.  It  should  cook  slowly  20  minutes ; 
then  pour  out  in  wide  shallow  pan. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Wing, 
Palmer,  Mass. 


BREAD,  BATTER  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES. 

Mrs.  Frank  Daub — Chairman. 

SHE  BAKES  THE  BREAD 

It's  happy  every  mornin', 

Every  evenin'  I  will  be, 
For  I  hoe  the  corn  for  Sally 

And  she  bakes  the  bread  for  me ! 

Frank  L.  Stanton. 

BREADS. 

Quick  breads  should  be  made  as  rapidly  as  possible  and  cooked 
at  once.  Where  soda  is  used  in  a  recipe,  add  it  to  the  other  dry  in- 
gredients. Flour  should  be  sifted  before  measuring.  Serve  hot 
breads  in  a  folded  napkin  on  a  plate. 

M.  P.  Means. 

KENTUCKY  BUTTERMILK  BISCUIT. 
1  qt.  flour.  1  t-spoon  soda. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  2  tbls.  lard. 

Sift  flour,  mix  soda  and  salt  well  with  flour,  work  in  lard,  poui 
in  buttermilk  to  make  soft  dough.  Roll  thin,  cut  and  bake  in  hot 
oven. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Price-Smith. 
Auditorium  Chairman. 

BREAD. 
Never  Fail,  or  Milk  Bread. 

2  cups  water.  3  tbls.  sugar. 

1  cake  yeast.  1  tbls.  salt. 

2  cups  milk.  1  tbls.  lard. 

Boil  all  together.  When  cool,  add  yeast  dissolved  in  1/2  cup 
luke  warm  water.  Stir  in  from  five  to  seven  cups  flour  or  enough  to 
make  a  good  dough,  set  in  warm  place  over  night.      Next  morning 


BREAD,  BATTER  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES  41 


knead  for  15  or  20  minutes.     Mould  into  loaves  and  let  rise  again 
Bake  about  40  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Edwin  Beaver. 

VIRGINIA  SALT  RISING  BREAD 
3  qts.  sifted  flour.  1  tbls.  lard. 

1  cup  milk.  2  cups  water. 

1  tbls.  sugar.  1  tbls.  salt. 

Put  two  cups  boiling  water  in  pitcher.  Add  milk,  sugar,  3 
cups  flour  and  1  t-spoon  salt.  Stir  well.  Cover  pitcher  and  set 
in  pan  of  moderately  warm  water  3  hours.  Keep  at  uniform  tem- 
perature. Beat  well;  afterwards  do  not  disturb.  In  2  hours  it 
should  be  light.  Mix  salt  and  lard  in  balance  of  flour.  Pour 
yeast  in  this.  If  not  sufficient  to  make  moderately  soft  dough,  add 
little  more  water;  knead  well  and  mold  in  loaves.  Put  in  warm 
oven  to  rise.    Bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  Bun  Wylie. 

DELICIOUS  SALT  RISING  BREAD, 
(should  be  made  in  hot  weather). 
11/2  cups  milk.  3  scant  tbls.  lard. 

2  qts.  flour.  1  tbls.  salt. 

1/3  cup  corn  meal.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

Scald  meal  with  V^  cup  hot  milk.  Stand  mixture  over  night  in 
covered  bowl,  then  add  1/2  cup  boiling  water  and  1/2  cup  milk  mixed. 
Stir  well  and  thicken  to  consistency  of  waffle  batter  with  part  of 
flour.  Set  in  sun  about  21/2  hours.  Put  salt,  sugar  and  shortening 
in  balance  flour.  Add  above  yeast  with  1/2  cup  milk  and  V2  cup 
boiling  water ;  rinse  the  bowl,  from  which  the  yeast  was  emptied 
and  add  to  mixture.  Be  sure  to  knead  bread  well.  Mold  in  loaves 
set  in  sun  to  rise  until  level  with  top  of  pan.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  T.  D.  Longino. 

ROLLED  OATS  BREAD  (NEW  ENGLAND  RECIPE). 
2  cups  boiling  water.  2  tbls.  Crisco  or  lard. 

1  cup  rolled  oats.  2  t-spoons  salt. 

1/2  cup  molasses,  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  1/2  cup 

Flour.  luke  warm  water. 

Add  boiling  water  to  rolled  oats  and  allow  to  stand  one  hour. 
Add  molasses,  salt,  shortening  and  dissolve  yeast  cake.  Add  flour 
to  make  stiff  dough,  knead  well,  let  rise.  Knead  very  little.  Divide 
into  two  bread  pans,  let  rise  again,  bake  40  minutes  in  moderate 
oven.     Enough  for  two  small  loaves. 

Mrs.  Rowland  T.  Cresse. 

Boston,  Mass. 

NORWEGIAN  SWEETBREAD. 

1  cake  fresh  yeast.  1  cup  of  sugar. 

2  tbls.  of  sugar.  Season  well  with  cinnamon. 

3  t-spoons  of  salt.  1  fresh  egg  well  beaten. 


42  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


1  large  tbls.  of  lard.  Half  a   citron   cut   in   medium 

4  cups  of  water.  size  pieces. 

Flour    enough    to    make    stiff  A  handfull  of  large  raisins  cut 

dough.  in  half. 

When  risen  work  over  and  add,  1  tbls.  full  of  butter  or  lard. 

This  takes  longer  to  rise  than  plain  bread.  When  about  to 
brown,  brush  with  lard,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

This  is  a  delicious  bread  and  a  favorite  in  Norway.  When 
stale  may  be  toasted  and  served  for  breakfast. 

Lollie  Belle  Wylie. 

FAMOUS  VIRGINIA  SPOON  BREAD. 

1  pt.  corn  meal  (scalded).  4  eggs. 

2  tbls  butter.  1  t-spoon  soda. 

1  qt.  buttermilk.  1/2  t-spoon  baking  powder. 
Salt  to  taste. 

Thin  the  scalded  meal  to  consistency  of  a  batter  for  cakes 
with  the  buttermilk.  Melt  butter  in  pan  in  which  bread  is  to  be 
baked ;  add,  with  salt,  to  mixture.  After  stirring  well,  pour  into  hot 
pan  and  bake  quickly  in  hot  oven.  When  well  browned,  serve  hot 
from  pan  with  spoon.    Hence  the  name  "Spoon  Bread." 

I.  H.  Goss,  M.  D. 
President  Medical  Society,  Athens,  Ga. 

NUT  BREAD  NO.  I. 

2  cups  flour.  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

2  t-spoon  Royal  baking  powder     1  egg. 

1/2  cup  sugar.  %  cup  milk. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

Combine  flour,  sugar,  nuts,  salt  and  baking  powder ;  add  milk, 
and  well  beaten  egg.  Let  stand  in  pan  20  minutes.  Bake  in  m.od- 
erately  hot  oven  one-half  hour. 

Mrs,  Andrew  P.  Stewart. 

NUT  BREAD  NO  II. 

3  cups  flour.  1  cup  sugar. 
1  cup  nuts.  1  egg. 

1  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

Butter  size  of  egg.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

Combine  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar,  and  nuts.  Beat  eggs 
lightly ;  add  milk  and  butter. 

Miss  Pattie  James, 

Hamilton,   Ga. 

NUT  BREAD  NO.  III. 

4  cups  flour.  1%  cups  milk. 
11/2  cups  chopped  pecans.  1  egg. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

4  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 
der. 


BREAD,  BATTER  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES  43 


Combine  flour,  sugar,  nuts,  salt  and  baking  powder,  add  milk 
and  well  beaten  egg.  Let  stand  in  pans  fifteen  minutes.  Bake 
forty  minutes  in  slow  oven.    This  makes  two  loaves. 

Mrs.  L.  R.  Wright. 

WALNUT  BREAD. 
1  egg.  1  cup  suga^. 

1  cup  milk.  2  t-spoons  salt. 

4  cups  flour.  4  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

2  cups  chopped  black  walnuts. 

Combine  flour,  sugar,  nuts,  salt  and  baking  powder,  add  milk 
and  well  beaten  egg.  Let  rise  in  pans  20  minutes.  Bake  45  minutes 
in  hot  oven,  standing  in  pan  of  w^ater.  Keep  covered  first  15  min- 
utes. 

Mrs.  Edgar  Barett. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 
1  cup  flour.  1  cup  buttermilk. 

1  cup  corn  meal.  1  t-spoon  soda. 

1  cup  graham  flour.  1  pinch  salt. 

1  cup  black  molasses.  1  pinch  cloves  or  other  spice. 

Combine  soda,  salt  and  spice  in  the  flours ;  sift  all  together. 
Add  buttermilk  and  molasses,  put  in  greased  baking  powder  cans, 
cover  with  their  own  tops,  and  steam  for  two  hours,  letting  the 
water  come  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top.  Cover  the  vessel  in  which 
the  bread  is  steamed,  replenishing  the  water  around  the  cans,  when 
necessary.    A  cup  of  blackberry  jam  added  to  the  batter  is  delicious. 

Mrs.  Alonzo  Richardson, 
State  Chairman  of  Citizenship.    Vice-Pres.  Atlanta  Woman's  Club. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

(delicious). 
1  pt.  buttermilk.  1/2  cup  flour. 

11/2  cups  corn  meal  (sifted).  2  eggs. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  2  tbls.  sugar. 

1  t-spoon  soda.  2  level  tbls.  shortening. 

Combine  meal,  flour,  salt  and  sugar;  rub  shortening  in  mix- 
ture with  fingers,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  then  milk  in  which  soda  is 
dissolved.  Stir  all  together  and  beat  with  egg  beater  3  minutes. 
Bake  in  large  pan  in  moderate  oven  1  hour. 

Mrs.  Charles  Myers. 

DATE  BREAD. 
11/^  packages  dates.  1  cup  English  walnut  meats. 

1  cup  sugar.  4  eggs. 

4  t-spoon  baking  powder.  1  pinch  of  salt. 

3  cups   flour   measured   before     1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

sifting. 
Beat  eggs  thoroughly  and  cream  with  sugar.     Mix  flour  and 
baking  powder  add  to  mixture.     Chop  walnuts  and  cut  dates  into 


44  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


small  pieces,  stir  into  mixture,  add  salt  and  vanilla.      Bake  slowly 
one  hour. 

Mrs.  Virlyn  B.  Moore, 

Bolton,  Ga. 
RAISIN  BREAD. 
2  yeast  cakes.  1  t-spoon  salt, 

1  cup  milk.  1  cup  seeded  raisins. 

2/3  cup  Snowdrift.  1  egg. 

1/2  cup  water.  Flour  (Capitola). 

1  tbls.  sugar. 

Dissolve  yeast  cake  in  1/2  cup  warm  water.  Add  sugar,  salt 
and  Snowdrift  to  milk ;  warm  until  Snowdrift  melts.  Add  to  this 
the  yeast  dissolved  in  warm  water,  the  well  beaten  egg  and  suf- 
ficient flour  to  make  drop  batter.  Cover  and  set  in  warm 
place  to  rise  about  4  hours.  Add  raisins  well  floured  and  flour 
enough  to  make  stiff  dough.  Mold  into  2  loaves  that  fit  nicely 
in  pans.     Set  to  rise  about  an  hour.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  F.  S.  Hall. 

CxINGER  BREAD.     (1865). 

2  cups  syrup.  1  t-spoon  soda. 

1  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed.        1  cup  hot  water. 
1  qt.  sifted  flour.  Spices. 

Heat  lard  and  butter  together  until  melted.  Pour  this  over 
the  flour  mixing  well.  Add  spices  to  taste — preferably  ginger  and 
cinnamon.  Add  the  hot  water,  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved. 
Bake  in  paper  lined  biscuit  pan,  well  greased.  May  be  eaten  hot, 
served  with  hard  butter,  or  liquid  sauce. 

Mrs.  Edward  H.  Barnes. 

MILK  BREAD,  (four  small  loaves) . 
1  qt.  milk,  scalded.  3  tbls.  lard. 

1  cake  compressed  yeast.  3  qts.  sifted  flour. 

2  tbls.  sugar,  1  t-spoon  salt. 

Put  into  quart  measure,  the  lard,  salt  and  one  cup  boiling 
water;  fill  with  scalded  milk ;  let  cool  until  luke  warm ;  stir  and  pour 
into  bread  maker,  keeping  back  just  enough  liquid  to  dissolve  yeast, 
add  the  dissolved  yeast  to  other  liquids,  lastly  the  sifted  flour. 
If  bread  mixer  is  used  turn  the  crank  three  minutes,  or  until  dough 
forms  into  a  ball  around  the  kneading  rod.  Cover,  set  away  to 
rise.  After  rising,  turn  crank  until  the  dough  forms  a  ball  around 
the  kneader;  lift  out.  Cut  into  four  pieces,  put  in  four  greased 
baking  tins.  Let  rise  about  an  hour.  When  raised  to  top  of 
pans,  brush  top  of  loaves  with  milk.  Light  burners  of  gas  stove; 
after  five  minutes  put  bread  in  and  after  both  burners  are  on  for 
ten  minutes,  shut  off  one  burner  and  let  other  burner  on  full  for 
five  minutes  more;  then  turn  off  half  way  for  five  minutes;  then 
turn  off  entirely,  but  leave  bread  in  oven  till  cool.  Have  gas  burn- 
ing for  25  minutes  onlv. 

Mrs.  W.  Frank  Daub, 


BREAD,  BATTER  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES  45 


SOUTHERN  BEATEN  BISCUIT. 

1  qt.   unsifted  flour.  1/2  t-spoon   Royal  baking  pow- 

1  t-spoon  sugar.  der. 

Equal  parts  ice-water  and  milk.     1  t-spoon  salt. 

1/2  cup  lard. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt  together.  Rub 
lard  into  flour  thoroughly.  Add  gradually  equal  parts  of  milk 
and  ice-water,  just  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough.  (Almost 
dry).  Work  on  a  kneader,  or  beat  with  a  mallet  until  the  dough 
is  smooth  and  glossy.  This  will  require  at  least  1/2  hour.  Roll 
out  about  1/4  inch  thick.  Cut  and  pierce  with  fork.  Start  cooking 
in  moderate  oven,  gradually  increasing  heat.  In  about  30  minutes 
biscuit  should  be  light  brown.  Turn  off  heat  or  allow  biscuit  to 
stand  in  warm  oven  about  20  minutes  to  dry  out  thoroughly. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Seay. 

EMERGENCY  BISCUIT. 
3  cups  self  rising  flour.  2  tbls.  melted  butter. 

11/2  cups  milk. 

After  sifting  flour  rub  in  butter  and  add  milk.  Beat  into  a 
soft  dough  and  drop  with  tablespoon  a  good  inch  apart  into  well 
greased  baking  pan.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  James  R.  Bachman, 

Kirkwood,  Ga. 

BRAN  BISCUIT. 
1  cup  of  bran.  1  cup  of  flour. 

1  t-spoon  soda.  1/2  cup  of  sour  milk. 

14  cup  of  butter.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

Sift  soda  into  flour,  add  salt,  mix  butter  well  into  this;  add 
bran,  stir  in  milk,  mix  well  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Willet, 
Chairman  State  Federation. 

SWEET  POTATO  BISCUIT. 

1  qt.  flour.  3  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 

2  large  sweet  potatoes.  der. 

1  cup  sugar.  Pinch  of  salt. 

2  t-spoons  butter  or  substitute.     Milk. 

Boil  potatoes  and  mash  adding  sugar  and  butter.  Sift  flour, 
salt  and  baking  powder,  add  potato  mixture.  Make  into  a  soft 
dough  with  milk.     Roll  out  and  cut.     Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Minson. 

CHEESE  BISCUIT. 
5/8  cup  milk.  2  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 

6  tbls  grated  cheese.  der. 

11/2  cups  flour.  1  t-spoon  shortening. 

14  t-spoon  salt. 
Sift  together  baking  powder,  salt  and  flour:  add  shortening 


46  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


and  cheese;  slowly  just  enough  milk  to  hold  the  dough  together. 
Roll  on  flour  board  1/2  inch  thick ;  cut  with  small  biscuit  cutter  and 
bake  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 

CREOLE  QUICK  ROLLS. 
1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  1  cup     1  cup  sugar. 

tepid  water.  1  cup  of  water  in  which  pota- 

1  cup     boiled     Irish     potatoes  toes  were  boiled. 

(mashed). 
Combine  above  ingredients  together  well,  let  rise  in  warm  place 
three  hours.  This  mixture  will  keep  in  ice  box  several  days  and  is 
used  as  one  would  use  buttermilk  to  make  biscuit.  When  ready  to 
make  rolls,  break  one  egg  in  bowl,  beating  slightly,  add  one  cup  of 
this  yeast  mixture  (dipping  from  bottom  of  bowl)  3  tbls.  melted 
fat,  1  tbls.  sugar  (less  if  preferred)  1  t-spoon  salt,  enough  flour  to 
knead  a  little  but  not  too  stiff,  roll  out,  cut  with  large  size  biscuit 
cutter,  turn  edges  together,  with  dot  of  butter  between  making 
pocket  book  rolls.  Let  rise  2  hours,  bake  in  moderately  quick  oven. 
This  amount  will  serve  six  people.  Double  or  triple  the  quantity  for 
more,  but  never  use  more  than  two  eggs.  This  will  also  make  very 
good  bread  and  rolls. 

Mrs.  William  Percy. 

ALLINE'S  MUFFINS. 

2  cups  flour.  2  tbls.  sugar. 
2  eggs.  V2  tbls.  salt. 

1  cup  milk.  2  t-spoon  Royal  baking  powder. 

2  tbls.  butter. 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs 
beaten  separately  until  light.  Sift  together  flour,  salt,  and  baking 
powder ;  add  this  to  first  mixture.  Fold  in  milk,  but  do  not  stir. 
Put  in  greased  muffin  pans.  Bake  about  15  minutes  in  hot  oven. 
The  delicacy  of  these  muffins  depends,  upon  the  mixing  and  baking. 

Mrs.  Edward  H.  Barnes. 

CHEESE  STRAWS  No.  1. 

1  lb.  grated  cheese.  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
Dash  of  salt.  Dash  of  red  pepper. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough. 
Roll  thin  and  cut  into  strips. 

Mrs.  Lela  C.  McKinney. 

CHEESE  STRAWS  NO.  2. 

14  lb.  flour.  Pinch  of  salt. 

2  oz.  grated  cheese.  2  oz.  butter. 

1  egg  yolk.  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Combine  above  ingredients  to  a  paste  with  egg  yolk.  Roll  thin 
one-third  inch  wide  from  three  to  five  inches  long.    Straws  may  be 


BREAD,  BATTER  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES  47 


twisted  if  desired.    Place  on  hot  baking  pan,  cook  in  moderate  oven 
light  brown. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Hardy. 

POPOVERS. 
2  cups  pastry  flour.  2  cups  milk. 

2  eggs.  salt  to  taste. 

1  tbl.  butter,  1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  milk  and  salt,  break 
eggs  into  this  mixture,  stir  well.  Turn  into  a  hot,  well  buttered, 
iron  popover  pan  (Tin  gem  pans  may  be  used) .  Bake  in  a  very  hot 
oven  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Rupert  E.  Hall. 

VIRGINIA  SALLY  LUNN. 
1  qt.  flour.  2  eggs. 

1  level  t-spoon  salt.  1/2     yeast  cake. 

2  tbls.  Snowdrift.  2  cups  tepid  water. 
2  tbls.  sugar.                                    Butter  size  of  egg. 

Mix  salt  and  Snowdrift  in  sifted  flour.  Dissolve  yeast  cake  in 
tepid  water  to  which  has  been  added  two  tablespoons  sugar.  Mix 
thoroughly,  adding  yeast  mixture  enough  to  make  dough  soft  as 
biscuit  dough.  Let  rise  four  or  five  hours.  Add  the  well  beaten 
eggs  and  butter.  Work  well  with  the  hand,  put  in  greased  tube  cake 
pan,  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  from  35  to  40  minutes  in 
gas  oven  with  one  burner.  Finish  baking  with  the  one  burner 
turned  about  half  way  off  for  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Manry. 

SALLY  LUNN  MUFFINS. 
2  cups  flour.  3  eggs. 

1  tbl.  of  sugar.  3  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 

1  cup  milk.  der. 

A  little  salt.  i^  cup  butter. 

Cream  yolks,  sugar,  and  butter  together  until  light.  Add 
flour.  Beat  whites  until  stiff,  add,  folding  in  until  well  mixed. 
Last  of  all  add  baking  powder  to  batter,  and  stir  in  thoroughly. 
Bake  at  once  in  muffin  tins.  The  above  receipe  makes  the  most  de- 
licious Muffin  Cakes,  by  adding  one  cup  of  sugar. 

Mrs.  E.  Rivers. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

%  cup  graham  flour.  1/4  cup  corn  meal. 

1  cup  white  flour.  II/2  cups  buttermilk. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  %  t-spoon  soda. 

Put  in  buttermilk,  meal,  graham  and  white  flour,  soda  sifted 
with  flour.  Stir  gently  until  stiff  drop  batter  is  formed.  Bake  in 
hot  oven,  in  well  greased  muffin  irons. 

Mrs.  John  Hardwick. 


48  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK  BOOK 


SOUTHERN  CORN  BREAD. 
1  qt.  meal.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

3  tbls.  lard.  li/>  cups  butter  milk. 

14  t-spoon  soda.  1  cup  water. 

Dissolve  soda  in  buttermilk,  add  to  meal  with  lard  and  salt- 
then  add  water  to  right  consistency  (add  more  water  if  necessary). 
Cook  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Merritt. 

PARKER  HOUSE  CORN  CAKE. 

1  cup  flour.  14  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  corn  meal.  li/4  t-spoons  cream  of  tartar. 

1  cup  milk.  1  egg. 

1  t-spoon  soda.  Butter  size  of  egg. 

Combine  flour,  corn  meal,  cream  of  tartar,  soda  and  salt  to- 
gether. In  another  bowl,  mix  egg,  sugar,  butter  and  milk ;  add  this 
to  dry  ingredients.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  greased  muffin  tins.  A 
half  cup  of  floured  raisins  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  W.  Frank  Daub. 

VIRGINIA  CORN  PONES. 

1  pt.  water  ground  meal.  i/4  t-spoon  soda. 

1  cup  buttermilk.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

1  tbls.  lard. 

Sift  meal,  soda  and  salt,  work  in  lard,  then  milk,  work  quickly, 
adding  water  enough  to  make  soft  dough.  Make  into  pones  with 
hands,  put  in  hot  greased  pan,  bake  in  hot  oven  twelve  or  fifteen 
minutes. 

Mrs.  R.  T.  Bell,  Sr. 

Lynchburg,  Va. 

LIGHT  ROLLS. 

%  cake  yeast.  1/2  cup  tepid  water. 

1/2  pt.  milk.  1/2  pt.  cold  water. 

1  tbls.  sugar.  1  tbls.  lard. 

1  t-spoon  salt. 

Soak  yeast  in  tepid  water  while  scalding  milk,  add  lard  and 
sugar  to  hot  milk,  then  the  cold  water  and  salt,  beat  in  enough  floui 
to  make  stiff  batter,  add  yeast  cake,  put  in  covered  pail,  stand  in 
warm  place  and  let  rise  for  2V2  hours.  Knead  in  enough  flour  to 
make  a  light  dough.  Roll  one  half  inch  thick,  spread  with  melted 
butter,  cut  with  large  biscuit  cutter,  fold  half  over,  put  in  baking 
pan,  cover,  let  rise  in  warm  place  2l/>  hours.    Bake  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Jenkins, 

Smyrna,  Ga. 

DOUGHNUTS. 
3  medium  size  Irish  potatoes.       1  cup  milk. 
3  cups  sugar.  6  t-spoon  Royal  baking  powder 

3  eggs.  2  qts.  flour. 

Butter  size  of  egg. 


BREAD,  BATTER  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES  49 


Cream  together  butter  and  sugar.  Add  well  beaten  eggs.  Stir 
in  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed ;  then  add  milk.  Sift  in  flour,  baking 
powder  and  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Make  into  a  stiff  dough.  Cut 
and  fry  in  deep  fat  (Snowdrift).  Drain  on  brown  paper,  then  rol) 
in  powdered  sugar.    This  makes  a  large  quantity  but  they  keep  well 

Mrs.  John  Z.  Lawshe. 

DOUGHNUTS. 
1  cup  sugar.  3  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 

1  cup  milk.  der. 

2  eggs.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla.  4  tbls.  melted  butter. 

3  cups  flour  sifted  with 

Add  sufficient  flour  to  above  mixture  to  roll  out;  fry  in  deep 
fat.    Sugar  while  warm, 

Mrs.  Fred  J.  Stilson. 

WAFFLES. 
1%  cups  flour.  2  eggs — yolks. 

3  t-spoons  baking  powder.  2  eggs — whites. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  1  tbls.  melted  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 

Combine  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  gradually,  yolks  of 
eggs  beaten  well,  butter,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Cook  on  a 
greased  waffle  iron.  Serve  with  maple  syrup.  Waffle  iron  should 
be  well  heated  on  one  side,  turned,  heated  on  other  side,  and  thor- 
oughly greased  before  iron  is  filled.  In  filling  put  a  tablespoon  full 
of  mixture  in  each  compartment  near  center  of  iron,  cover,  and 
mixture  will  spread  to  just  fill  iron. 

Mrs.  Robert  A.  Sewell. 

SOUTHERN  PLAIN  WAFERS. 
1  pt.  milk.  1  pt.  flour. 

1  t-spoon  baking  powder.  1  tbls.  butter. 

Sift  baking  powder  with  flour,  cream  flour  and  butter  well, 
add  milk  gradually,  salt  to  taste.  Bake  in  wafer  irons.  When 
finished  trim  with  scissors. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Willet. 

TRY  THIS  METHOD  OF  "PREPARING  TOAST". 

Cut  bread  one  half  inch  thick  (or  thickness  desired)  and  put 
under  flame  in  gas  oven  to  brown  slightly.  (Browning  process 
should  be  done  quickly;  be  careful  not  to  scorch.)  Remove  bread 
put  a  light  spread  of  butter  on  one  or  both  sides,  return  to  oven  un- 
til a  golden  brown.  This  is  a  little  trouble,  but  toast  is  crisp  and  de- 
licious. 

Mr.  George  Ellis. 


CROQUETTES  AND  EGG  DISHES. 

Mrs.  Lee  Hagan,  Chairman. 

Eggs  cooked  at  a  low  temperature  (poached)  are  more  quickly 
digested  than  eggs  cooked  at  a  high  temperature  (fried).  Always 
buy  yard  or  guaranteed  eggs  as  these  are  cheaper  in  the  end.  Eggs 
may  be  served  as  a  substitute  for  meat  as  they  have  similar  food 
value. 

Miss  M.  P.  Means. — Censor. 

'  CHICKEN  CROQUETTES  A  LA  PIEDMONT. 

1  lb.  ground  cooked  chicken.        2  tbls.  butter. 
1  cup  milk.  1  egg  yolk. 

1  tbls.  flour. 

Cream  butter  and  flour  together,  add  yolk,  then  milk.  Cook 
all  until  thick.  Mix  with  the  chicken — season  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Shape  into  balls — roll  in  flour — next  in  beaten  egg  and 
then  in  cracker  crumbs.    Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Piedmont  Driving  Club. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

1  cup  ground  chicken.  1/2  cup  cracker  or  bread  crumbs 

1  tbls.  melted  butter. 


2  eggs  well  beaten 
Season  to  taste. 

Mix  all  together,  making  into  cakes. 


Fry  in  boiling  lard. 
Mrs.  Charles  Ray. 


VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

2  cups  cooked  veal.  Season  with  onion,  salt  and  pep- 

1  egg.  per  to  taste. 

1  cup  white  sauce. 

Mix  all  together,  making  into  balls, 
in  cracker  crumbs.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  O.  R.  Williams. 


Dip  in  beaten  eggs — then 


CROQUETTES  AND  EGG  DISHES  51 


GREEN  CORN  CROQUETTES. 
1/2  dozen  ears  grated  corn.  1  cup  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

4  tbls.  butter.  3  eggs. 

Warm  the  milk  and  butter,  add  the  corn.  When  cold,  add  eggs 
well  beaten.    Make  into  balls.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  O.  C.  Fuller. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

1  large  can  salmon.  1  cup  milk. 

3  tbls.  butter.  2  tbls.  flour. 

2  eggs.  1/2  cup  bread  crumbs. 
Salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice  to 

taste. 
Mix  butter  and  flour  together.    When  milk  begins  to  boil,  stii 
in  flour,  butter,  salmon  and  seasoning.     Boil  up  for  two  minutes. 
Then  stir  in  eggs  well  beaten.    When  cold,  shape  up  and  fry  in  hot 
fat. 

Mrs.  J.  Ben  L-Gette. 

BANANA  CROQUETTES. 

4  ripe  sound  bananas.  1  egg. 

1/2  lemon.  Pinch  salt. 

Cut  bananas  in  four  parts  lengthwise.  Mix  beaten  eggs  with 
lemon  juice  and  salt.  Dip  bananas  in  the  mixture  and  then  roll  in 
cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat — drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprin- 
kle with  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  Lee  Hagan. 

NUT  AND  POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

1  cup  black  walnut  meats.  1  cup  mashed  potatoes. 

2  eggs.  1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

Chop  walnut  meats  coarsely,  mix  with  the  potatoes  mashed  and 
seasoned.  Have  bread  crumbs  soft  and  stir  in  with  well  beaten 
eggs;  mould  into  croquettes.  Dip  each  one  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in 
fine  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat. 

Mrs.  E.  O.  Pritchard. 

BRAIN  CROQUETTES. 
1  set  brains.  3  eggs. 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Parboil  brains  twenty  minutes;   drain.     Stir  into  them  the 

cracker  crumbs  and  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Make  into  cakes,  roll  in 
eggs  and  then  in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  boiling  lard.  Garnish 
with  parsley. 

Mrs.  D.  R.  Wilder. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES.      (Original). 

2  lbs.  lean  veal.  1  cup  white  sauce. 
1/2  t-spoon  black  pepper.  1  tbls.  salt. 

1  t-spoon  chopped  parsley.  V^  t-spoon  celery  seed. 

1  egg.  Bread  crumbs. 


52  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S  CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


Cook  veal  until  very  tender,  then  run  through  meat  choppei 
and  mix  with  white  sauce  and  seasoning.  Roll  into  any  shape  de- 
sired and  dip  in  egg  and  then  in  browned  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  bas- 
ket in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Havis,  Jr. 

MEAT  CROQUETTES. 
1  cup  cold  meat.  1  egg. 

1  cup  milk.  1  bell  pepper. 

1/4  t-spoon  salt.  2  tbls.  flour. 

1/8  t-spoon  pepper.  2  tbls.  butter. 

Grind  any  kind  of  cold  meat,  cream  butter,  flour,  salt  and  pep- 
per together,  warm  milk  and  pour  on  creamed  mixture  cook  in  dou- 
ble boiler  until  real  stiff,  add  cold  meat  and  chopped  pepper,  mix 
well  and  drop  on  platter  to  harden.  When  ready  to  cook  dip  in 
beaten  egg  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  quickly  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  on  brown  paper,  and  serve  garnished  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  Jesse  M.  Manry. 

MEAT  CROQUETTES. 
Fish  or  meat.  Cracker  crumbs  or  corn  meal. 

Rice.  Salt. 

1  well  beaten  egg.  Pepper. 

Take  equal  parts  of  ground  meat,  and  rice,  1  well  beaten  egg, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Dip  in  beaten  eggs  and  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  or  corn  meal.  Fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain  on  paper.  Cream.ed 
peas  are  lovely  with  croquettes. 

Mrs.  Tom.  Germany. 

BEEF  CROQUETTES. 
1  pt.  chopped  cold  beef.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

i/o  pt.  hot  boiled  rice. 

Bind  with  white  sauce  and  fry.  Serve  with  tomato  or  brown 
sauce. 

Mrs.  Le-Roy  Gregory. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 
1  cup  boiled  rice.  2  eggs  well  beaten  and  salted. 

1/2  cup  cracker  or  bread  crumbs 

Mix  rice  and  crumbs  in  eggs,  make  into  balls  and  fry  in  boiling 
lard.     When  done,  place  for  a  few  minutes  on  brown  paper. 

Mrs.  O.  L.  Jernigan. 

EGGS  AU  BECHAMEL. 
1  tbls.  butter.  1  tbls.  flour. 

1/2  cup  thin  cream.  1/2  cup  chicken  broth. 

3  hard  boiled  eggs.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mix  butter  and  flour  together  until  smooth,  add  the  cream 
chicken  broth  and  seasoning,  cook  until  thick,  pour  sauce  over  brown 


CROQUETTES  AND  EGG  DISHES  53 


toast,  then  the  hard  boiled  eggs,  which  have  been   put  through 
colander,  next  minced  bacon  on  top.     Serve  hot. 

From  Tea-Room  Chamberlin-Johnson-DuBose  Co. 

HAM  OMELET. 
11/2  tbls.  corn  starch.  1  cup  milk. 

1  tbls.  butter.  3  eggs. 

1/2  cup  minced  ham. 
"  Stir  corn  starch  in  the  milk,  add  beaten  eggs  and  ham.     Bea1 
all  together.     Melt  butter  in  omelet  pan  and  cook.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Chas.  McCarty. 

OMELET  FOR  TWO. 

4  eggs.  4  tbls.  warm  water. 
1/2  t-spoon  salt.  A  dash  of  pepper. 

'Break  eggs  into  round  bottom  bowl.  Add  seasoning  and  water. 
Beat  rapidly  with  dover  beater  until  light  and  foamy.  Turn  into 
cooking  pan  and  as  one  part  cooks,  slip  knife  under  that  portion, 
lift  it  to  let  soft  portion  run  under  and  so  continue  until  only  the 
bubbly  top  remains  uncooked.  Place  in  moderately  hot  oven  to 
"set"  the  top.  With  left  hand  tilt  the  pan  and  with  knife  in  right 
hand  fold  and  turn  at  the  same  time  into  the  platter.  Serve  in- 
stantly. 

Mrs.  Robert  Andoe. 

BEEF  OMELET. 
1  lb.  round  steak  (ground).  4  beaten  eggs. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

Add  salt,  pepper  to  taste  and  a  little  nutmeg;  add  enough 
whole  milk  to  make  the  mixture  the  consistency  of  stiff  cream 
sauce.  Put  3  tbls.  of  butter  or  breakfast  bacon  fat  in  hot  skillet. 
Turn  in  mixture  and  scramble  until  brown.  Serve  hot.  To  any 
omelet  left,  add  cream  sauce  and  serve  for  another  meal ;  this  with 
scallopped  tomatoes  and  potatoes  au  gratin  make  a  delicious  lun- 
cheon. 

Mrs.  Paul  Dismukes, 

Columbus,  Ga. 

MILK  AND  EGG  OMELET. 

5  eggs.  1/2  cup  milk. 
1/2  cup  bread  pieces,  not  ground    1  tbls.  fat. 

Pour  into  frying  pan  the  grease,  either  bacon,  butter,  cooking 
oil  or  fat,  (use  twice  as  much,  if  hinged  omelet  pan  is  used).  Soak 
in  milk,  for  a  few  minutes,  the  pieces  of  bread.  Add  to  beaten 
eggs  the  milk  and  bread ;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
pour  all  into  frying  pan  when  it  is  very  hot,  reducing  the  heat  as 
soon  as  it  is  in.  Keep  it  from  sti<!king  to  the  sides,  with  a  silver 
knife,  occasionally  tilting  pan  slightly  so  that  liquid  parts  will  run 
underneath  and  cook.  Fold  one  part  over  on  the  other  while  it  is 
still  soft,  turn  out  on  hot  platter,  garnish  and  serve.    The  trick  of 


54  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S  CLUB  COOK  BOOK 

an  omelet  is  to  have  just  the  right  amount  of  grease,  or  else  it  will 
stick  if  too  little  is  used  or  be  watery  if  too  much.  Bread  may  be 
omitted,  if  a  smaller  omelet  is  desired,  and  more  milk  may  be  used. 

Mrs,  Newton  C.  Wing, 
Chairman  Home  Economics. 

TOMATO  OMELET. 

5  eggs.  1/^  cup  canned  tomatoes. 
1/2  cup  bread  pieces.                        2  tbls.  fat. 

If  possible,  use  regular  omelet  pan  for  this,  i.  e.,  one  that  is 
hinged  in  center.  Divide  amount  of  bacon  grease,  butter,  lard  or 
butter  substitute,  putting  half  in  each  side  of  omelet  pan.  When 
bubbling  hot,  pour  in  an  equal  amount  on  each  side,  of  the  eggs, 
beaten ;  the  tomatoes,  in  which  have  been  soaked  the  small  pieces 
of  bread  for  several  minutes  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  A? 
soon  as  the  mixture  is  in  it  requires  less  heat.  With  a  silver  knife, 
keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  sides  and  also  tilt  pan  slightly,  to  allow 
the  more  liquid  parts  to  get  underneath.  While  still  soft,  turn  one 
half  of  the  omelet  over  on  top  of  the  other  half,  then  turn  out  on  hot 
platter  and  garnish  with  parsley ;  serve. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing, 
Chairman  Home  Economics. 

FLUFFY  OMELET. 
4  eggs.  4  tbls.  water. 

2  tbls.  butter.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Separate  eggs,  beat  yolks,  add  salt,  pepper  and  water.  Fck: 
in  the  beaten  egg  whites,  to  which  a  little  salt  has  been  added. 
Melt  butter  in  hot  omelet  pan — turn  in  egg  and  spread  evenly  over 
pan.  Shake  gently  just  above  the  flame  until  the  omelet  is  slightly 
brown.  Set  in  the  oven  and  cook  top.  It  is  done  when  knife  thrust 
into  the  center,  comes  out  without  the  egg  adhering.  Fold  to- 
gether and  turn  out  on  a  hot  plate.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Serve 
at  once. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Dinwiddle. 

EGGS  BENEDICTINE. 

On  rounds  of  toast  put  thin  slice  of  baked  ham,  cut  to  match. 
Upon  this  place  one  whole  boiled  egg  and  over  this  pour  a  rich 
cream  sauce.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  McRee,  (The  Daffodil). 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

6  eggs.  6  t-spoons  milk. 

1  tbls.  butter.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Beat  the  yolks  until  light,  add  the  milk,  beat  again.  Put  the 
butter  in  a  warm  pan,  pouring  the  yolks  in  the  pan  first,  then  the 
unbeaten  whites,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt  and  white  pepper.  Cook 
until  the  whites  are  opaque.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  N.  Bateman. 


CROQUETTES  AND  EGG  DISHES  55 


STUFFED  EGGS. 
1  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs.  2  tbls.  butter. 

1/4  t-spoon  salt.  l^  t-spoon  pepper. 

1/2  cup  mayonnaise. 

Cut  eggs  in  half — remove  yolks.  Mix  with  the  butter,  salt, 
pepper  and  mayonnaise.  Stuff  the  whites  with  the  mixture 
Sprinkle  paprika  over  them,  serve  cold.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  Lee  Hagan. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 
1  cup  hot  milk.  3  eggs. 

1  tbls.  butter.  1  cup  grated  cheese. 

3  level  tbls.  flour. 

Make  white  sauce  of  the  milk,  butter  and  flour;  while  it  is 
still  hot  on  the  stove,  add  grated  cheese,  stir  until  well  blended, 
then  add  beaten  of  yolks  and  pinch  of  salt.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  20  minutes,  using  only  one 
burner. 

Mrs.  L.  G.  Neal. 

CHEESE  MOUSSE. 
1  pt.  cream.  1  pkg.  gelatine. 

1  lemon  (juice).  Salt  to  taste. 

1  cup  grated  cheese.  Cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

2  green  peppers. 

Whip  cream  and  when  nearly  stiff  add  lemon  juice;  then  whip 
stiff.  Put  in  peppers  ground  fine  (through  meat  chopper)  and 
cheese ;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Then  fold  in  gelatine  (softened 
in  a  little  cold  water  and  dissolved  over  hot) .  Set  in  ice  box  to 
cool,  serve  with  mayonnaise  and  lettuce. 

Mrs.  E.  O.  Pritchard. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD. 
2  cups  cottage  cheese.  1/2  chopped  green  pepper. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  l78  t-spoon   pepper. 

Mix  thoroughly,  make  into  balls  size  of  an  English  walnut 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  French  dressing. 

Mrs.  D.  J.  Jones. 

CHEESE  RELISH. 

1  lb.  cream  cheese.  Pinch    each   paprika,   salt   and 

mustard. 
Add  cream  until  smooth  consistency.     Mold  in  palm  of  hand 
in  small  balls  and  place  walnut  or  pecan  on  one  half. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Plage, 

East  Lake. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

2  cups  grated  cheese.  II/2  cups  flour. 

2  tbls.  melted  butter.  l^  cup  ice  water. 

Pinch  of  salt  and  pepper. 


56  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


Mix  cheese,  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  butter  well  together,  adc 
ice  water  to  make  a  soft  dough,  roll  out  thin — Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Zirkle. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

1/2  lb.  cheese  (grated).  1  tbls.  fine  bread  crumbs  soak- 

1/4  t-spoon  cayenne  pepper.  ed  in  milk. 

1  tbls.  mustard. 

Rub  bottom  of  heated  pan  with  butter.  Rub  in  cheese,  stirring 
fast.  When  melted,  put  in  butter,  mustard,  pepper  and  lastly 
crumbs  pressed  dry.    Spread  smoking  hot  on  toast.    Serve  at  once. 

Miss  Jennie  Ikerd, 
Fort  Worth,  Texas, 

A  LA  GOLDEN  ROD  TOAST. 
4  hard  boiled  eggs.  6  rounds  of  buttered  toast. 

Put  whites  thru  potato  masher,  grate  yolks.  Bread  should 
be  toasted  on  both  sides. 

THICK  CREAM  DRESSING. 
1  cup  milk.  2  tbls.  melted  butter. 

4  tbls.  flour.  Salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 

Cream  butter  and  flour  together,  stir  this  in  the  hot  milk 
until  smooth,  cook  until  rather  thick,  add  the  mashed  egg  whites, 
salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Put  a  spoonful  on  each  round  of  toast, 
sprinkle  the  top  with  grated  yolks,  serve  immediately. 

Miss  Silvia  Northcutt, 

Louisville,  Kentucky. 

CHEESE  SALAD. 
1  pt.  stiff  whipped  cream.  1  cup  grated  cheese. 

1  pk.  gelatine.  1/2  pimento. 

1/2  green  pepper.  Juice  of  1  lemon. 

14  t-spoon  salt. 

Soak  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water,  then  mix  all  together. 
Place  in  mold  to  congeal.  Turn  out  on  platter  of  lettuce.  Serve 
with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Beckley  Griffin. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS 
SALADS. 

Mrs.  Norman  Pool,  Chairman. 

All  salad  ingredients  should  be  chilled  and  all  salads  should  be 
served  very  cold — Green  and  fruit  salads  with  French  or  cooked 
dressings  are  less  fattening  than  meat  and  eggs  or  cheese  salads 
with  mayonnaise.  The  beaten  white  of  egg  added  to  mayonnaise 
makes  it  thicker  but  holds  it  longer  and  gives  more  mayonnaise.  To 
marinate  foods  let  stand  in  oil,  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper. 

Miss  M.  P.  Means. 


TOMATO  &  CHICKEN  LAYER  SALAD. 
Aspic  Mixture 


can  tomatoes,  2  lbs. 
tbls.  gelatine, 
cloves, 
pepper  corns. 


1  medium  sized  onion  (sliced) 

2  t-spoons  salt. 
1  t-spoon  sugar. 
1  small  bay  leaf. 


Cook  above  ingredients  20  minutes,  then  strain.  Soak  gela- 
tine in  a  little  cold  water  until  soft,  add  this  to  the  hot  liquid  and 
stir  until  dissolved.  Divide  the  liquid  into  2  equal  parts ;  one- 
half  goes  on  bottom,  remainder  on  the  top,  chicken  mixture  between! 

Chicken  Mixture. 
2  or  3   cups  chicken    (chopped    Salt  and  pepper, 
fine).  2  tbls.  gelatine. 

4  tbls.  mayonnaise. 

Add  gelatine  (which  was  put  in  a  i/t  cup  cold  water  and  dis- 
solved over  hot  water)  to  chicken,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  mix  well 
together.  Stir  in  mayonnaise  last.  Allow  to  cool.  Use  either  a 
square  mold  or  a  pyrex  bread  pan.  Pour  1/2  of  tomato  liquid  into 
the  mold  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  quite  firm,  spread  the  chicken 
mixture  smoothly  on  top  of  it.  Pour  other  half  of  tomato  jelly  on 
top  and  place  in  ice  box,  3  or  4  hours.  Remove  from  mold  by  plac- 
ing hot  towel  around  it  or  dipping  into  hot  water  a  few  seconds. 


< 

O 
W 
M 
o 

h:3 


U^ 


SALADS,  SANDWICHES   AND  DRESSINGS  59 


Slice  like  brick  ice  cream  and  place  over  lettuce  leaf,  1/2  tbls.  mayon- 
naise on  side.    This  amount  serves  8. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Massenburg. 

CLAM  SALAD. 
Small  Little  Neck  clams.  White  or  red  pepper. 

Head  of  lettuce.  Mayonnaise  or  tabasco  sauce. 

Lemon  juice. 

The  very  small  neck  clams  may  be  served  in  a  salad.  Put 
them  on  crisp  lettuce.  Season  with  a  little  lemon  juice  and  white 
or  red  pepper.     Mayonnaise  or  tabasco  sauce  can  be  used. 

Mrs.  K.  G.  Hardin. 

BOLIVIA  SALAD. 

11/2  cups   hard   boiled  potatoes    1/2  tbls.  chopped  chives. 

(cubed).  11/2  tbls.    finely    chopped    red 

3  hard  boiled  eggs.  peppers. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  pour  over  cream  dressing,  given  below. 

CREAM  DRESSING. 

i/i  tbls.  salt.  21/2  tbls,  melted  butter. 

1/2  tbls.  mustard.  %  cup  cream. 

%  tbls.  sugar.  14  cup  vinegar. 

1  egg  slightly  beaten. 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  adding  very  slowly.  Cook 
over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens, 
strain  and  cool. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  CUCUMBER  ASPIC. 
1  qt.  cold  water.  2  cups  diced  cucumbers. 

3  lemons.  1  box  gelatine. 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  (2  cups).     1/2  cup  cold  water. 

Add  juice  from  lemons  to  water;  dice  pineapple,  peel  and  cut 
up  cucumbers  and  add  to  lemon  juice  and  water;  sweeten  witt 
pineapple  juice  to  taste.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  watei 
and  melt  over  hot  water  and  add  to  mixture.  Add  a  few  drops  of 
green  vegetable  coloring,  pour  in  mold  and  let  congeal.  Serve  on 
lettuce  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  S.  R,  Dull. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SALAD, 
1/2  lb.  of  marshmallows,  1  large  can  slice  pineapple. 

1/1  lb.  shelled  and  blanched  al 
monds. 
Cut  each  marshmallow  in  4  pieces,  dice  pineapple  and  cut  al- 
monds in  half.      Mix  above  ingredients  together, 

DRESSING. 
3  egg  yolks.  2  tbls,  sugar, 

1  pt,  cream.  4  tbls.  vinegar. 


60  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


Mix  eggs,  sugar  and  vinegar  together.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
stirring  gently  until  thick  (about  7  minutes).  Whip  cream  stiff 
and  fold  into  this  dressing.  Then  add  to  ingredients  for  salad  by 
folding  in  very  gently.    This  serves  10  people. 

Mrs.  Chas.  F.  Rice. 

FROZEN  PEAR  SALAD. 
1  can  pears.  Lettuce. 

Mayonnaise. 

Pack  1  can  of  pears  in  a  bucket  with  ice  and  salt ;  cover  the  top 
of  the  bucket.  Let  stand  from  li/o  to  2  hours  and  it  should  be 
frozen.  Test  by  shaking  can.  When  ready  to  serve  cut  the  can 
around  the  center  with  can  opener.  Then  slice  the  frozen  block 
as  you  do  brick  cream.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise.  Grated 
pineapple  also  is  delicious  frozen  this  way. 

Miss  Martha  Lawshe. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

1  pt.  water.  1  tbls.  vinegar. 

2  slices  lemon.  A  dash  of  salt. 

2  cloves.  2  or  3  dozen  oysters. 

Put  all  above  ingredients  in  a  sauce  pan.  Let  simmer  5 
minutes.  Remove  oysters,  cool,  place  on  lettuce.  Sprinkle  with 
finely  chopped  celery.     Use  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Cresse. 

CUCUMBER  ASPIC. 
(serves  12). 
4  cucumbers.  2  t-spoons  onion. 

1  qt.  stock  (chicken  preferred).     3  tbls.  vinegar. 

2  t-spoons  salt.  1  box  gelatine. 

1/2  t-spoon  red  pepper.  Green  vegetable  coloring. 

1/4  cup  cold  water. 

Moisten  gelatine  with  one-half  cup  cold  water;  dissolve.  Use 
chicken  or  veal  stock,  or  dissolve  three  bouillon  cubes  in  qt.  hot 
water.  Mix  stock,  seasoning,  grated  vegetables,  gelatine  and  green 
coloring  matter.  Pour  in  mold  and  put  on  ice.  Serve  when  firm 
with  mayonnaise  on  lettuce.  Any  grated  vegetables  can  be  used, 
as  celery,   bell  peppers  etc. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Rogers. 

BANANA  SALAD. 

8  large  ripe  bananas.  Mayonnaise. 

1  small  head  lettuce.  3  cups  parched  peanuts. 

Hull  peanuts,  and  grind  fine.  Peel  the  bananas  and  dip  m 
mayonnaise.  Roll  them  in  ground  peanuts.  Serve  with  lettuce  on 
individual  salad  plates. 

Katrina  Van  Pool. 


SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND  DRESSINGS  61 


MOULDED  SHRIMP  SALAD. 
2  cans  shrimp.  Green  pepper,  cut  fine. 

1  can  tomato  soup.  2  tbls.  gelatine. 

Slice  of  onion. 

Wash  and  clean  shrimp,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Heat  soup  with 
onion  and  green  pepper  to  boiling  point  and  boil  2  minutes.  Soak 
gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Soak  in  soup, 
add  dissolved  gelatine  and  shrimp.  Pour  into  molds  already  rinsed 
in  cold  water.  Chill  on  ice  until  thoroughly  set.  When  ready  to 
serve  remove  from  molds  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Edgar  Barrett. 

MARSHMALLOW  SALAD. 

1/2  lb.  marshmallows.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

1  lb.  almonds.  21/2  tbls.  vinegar. 

1  lb.  can  pineapple.  1/4  tbls.  butter. 

3  egg  yolks.  1  tbls.  sugar. 

1/2  pt.  cream. 

Blanche  almonds ;  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cut  marshmallows  in 
quarters.  Cut  pineapple  in  small  pieces.  Mix  together  in  bowl 
and  let  stand.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  lightly  and  add  salt,  vinegar, 
butter  and  sugar ;  boil  till  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  Remove  from 
fire  and  when  almost  cold  stir  in  the  bowl  of  prepared  marsh- 
mallows, almonds  and  pineapple.  Put  in  cold  place  and  just  before 
serving  fold  in  the  half  pint  cream  (previously  whipped  and  on  ice) 
serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves.     This  will  serve  8  people. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Matthews. 

BAKED  APPLE  SALAD  (A  La  PERLEE  PLACE) 
6  small  uniform  tart  apples.         Mayonnaise 
1/4  cup  chopped  peanuts.  Lettuce. 

1  cup  cubed  marshmallows.  Currant  jelly. 

Core  the  apples  and  put  them  in  a  baking  pan.  Fill  the  centers 
with  brown  sugar  and  a  lump  of  butter  each.  Bake  as  usual,  bast- 
ing them  with  a  little  hot  water.  Then  chill.  Mix  together  the  pea- 
nuts, marshmallows  and  three  fourths  cup  of  mayonnaise,  fill  the 
centers,  and  the  top  with  a  little  more  mayonnaise  and  cubes  of 
currant  jelly.    Serve  garnished  with  lettuce  hearts. 

Mrs.  T.  F.  Abercrombe. 

CANDLE  SALAD. 
8  medium     uniform     bananas     8  red  cherries  or  strawberries. 

peeled.  1  cup  mayonnaise. 

8  slices  pineapple.  1  head  lettuce. 

4  medium  sized  green  bell  pep- 
pers. 
Cut  the  green  pepper  into  round  rings  after  removing  seed — 
then  cut  each  ring  in  half.     This  is  for  handle  on  side  of  banana 
held  there  by  2  tooth  picks.    Place  a  lettuce  leaf  flat  on  plate,  lay 
one  slice  of  pineapple  upon  it — in  center  of  pineapple  stand  upright 


62  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 

the  banana  (whole)  after  cutting  a  bit  off  each  end.  Stick  the  red 
cherry  on  top  with  tooth  pick,  fasten  handle,  place  mayonnaise  on 
side  of  lettuce  leaf  which  is  base  of  candle  sticks. 

If  the  banana  is  made  to  stand  erect,  in  slice  of  pineapple  with 
a  red  cherry  or  strawberry  stuck  on  top  and  a  handle  of  green  pep- 
per, a  lighted  candle  is  well  represented. 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Stevens. 

"AS  YOU  LIKE  IT"  SALAD. 
8  tomatoes.  Mayonnaise. 

4  eggs.  Lettuce. 

Peel  sound  tomatoes,  and  scoop  from  stem  end  a  part  of  center. 
Place  them  on  ice  and  just  before  serving  partly  fill  with  mayon- 
naise. Press  into  each  tomato  1/2  of  hard  boiled  egg,  letting  the 
rounded  top  rise  a  little  above  the  tomato.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  Norman  Pool. 

"THE  MARION  CLUB  SALAD". 
1  qt.  cream.  1  large  can   Royal  Anne  cher- 

1  qt.  mayonnaise.  ries. 

1  box  gelatine.  2  large  can  pineapple  sliced. 

3^  cups  sugar.  1  large  grapefruit. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  V2  lb.  blanched  almonds. 

Soak  each  envelope  of  gelatin  in  cup  of  pineapple  juice  5  min- 
utes ;  add  one  pint  boiling  water,  sugar  and  set  in  cool  place.  Whip 
cream  stiff,  place  on  ice.  Cut  pineapple,  grapefruit  and  almonds  in 
small  pieces,  seed  cherries.  As  soon  as  gelatine  begins  to  congeal 
add  in  the  following  order  cream,  mayonnaise,  cherries,  pineapple 
and  almonds.  Last  add  grapefruit  and  salt.  Put  into  mold  size  of 
teacup,  to  congeal.     (Serves  20  people.) 

Nelle  Pilcher  Koch. 

FRUIT  SALAD  NO.  1. 
1  can  pineapple.  4  oranges. 

1  can  white  cherries.  1  pk.  gelatine. 

1  cup  cold  water.  2  tbls.  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water;  dissolve  over  hot  water;  cut  the 
fruit  in  small  pieces,  then  pour  over  the  fruit  juices  to  which  has 
been  added  the  gelatine  and  sugar.    Harden  and  serve. 

Mrs.  L.  T.  Patillo. 

FRUIT  SALAD  No.  2. 
Celery.  Seedless  raisins. 

Apples.  Lettuce. 

Mayonnaise. 

Equal  parts  of  celery,  apples  and  seedless  raisins,  chopped  in 
small  pieces.  (Steam  raisins  until  tender  and  let  it  cool  before 
using)  Combine,  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 


SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND  DRESSINGS  63 


MAYONNAISE. 
4  egg  yolks.  Pinch  cayenne  pepper. 

2  tbls.  vinegar.  1  t-spoon  dry  mustard. 

1  lemon  (juice).  IV2  pts.  oil. 
1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

Have  eggs  and  oil  cold.  Mix  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  with 
eggs  in  bowl,  stir  well,  add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  then  a  few  drops 
of  oil  etc.,  alternating  vinegar,  oil  and  lemon  juice,  after  oil  is 
thoroughly  blended,  adding  very  slowly  at  first.  You  can  then  add 
it  more  rapidly  until  desired  consistency.  This  should  make  one 
quart  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Tull  C.  Waters. 

FRUIT  SALAD  FOR  SIXTEEN. 

2  cans  pineapple  No.  2.  Marshmallow  1/3  lb. 
1/2  lb.  pecan  nut  meats.                   1  pkg.  dates. 

2  small  bottles  cherries.  1  lb.  malaga  grapes. 

Chop  fruit  and  mix  with  whipped  cream  salad  dressing. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Stevens. 

GINGER  ALE  SALAD  NO.  1. 

1  box  gelatine.  1  cup  chopped  apples. 

Iqt.  ginger  ale.  1  cup  chopped  pineapple. 

14  pt.  boiling  water.  1  cup  chopped  celery. 

1  cup  cold  water.  1/8  lb.  crystalized  ginger. 

1/2  cup  sugar.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

1/2  cup  lemon  juice. 
Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  then  dissolve  in  boiling  water.  To 
this  add  sugar,  ginger  ale,  lemon  juice  and  salt  and  allow  to  cool. 
When  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  stir  in  lightly  chopped  fruits ; 
allow  it  to  congeal.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dres- 
sing. 

Mrs.  Jesse  M.  Manry. 

GINGER  ALE  SALAD  NO.  2. 
1  pt.  ginger  ale.  White  grapes. 

Gelatine.  English  walnuts. 

Lettuce.  Canned  peaches. 

Make  a  quart  of  unflavored  gelatine,  using  1  pint  of  ginger  ale 
in  place  of  water.  When  it  has  begun  to  solidify  pour  enough  of 
the  mixture  into  individual  molds  to  cover  the  bottoms.  When  it 
has  stiffened  add  white  grapes,  which  should  be  cut  in  halves  and 
enghsh  walnuts.  Then  pour  on  the  remaining  gelatine,  allow  to 
stiffen.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  decorate  with  halved  peaches. 

Mrs.  Edwin  Beaver. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD. 

1  small  can  pears.  1/,  cup  mayonnaise. 

1  small  can  white  cherries.  li/2  cups  whipped  cream. 

1  small  can  sliced  pineapple. 


64  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


Drain  juice  from  fruit;  cut  into  pieces  pears  and  pineapple 
and  stone  the  cherries.  Add  mayonnaise  and  whipped  cream  and 
freeze  immediately.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise.  Add 
nuts  if  desired. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  McRee,  (The  Daffodil). 

FROZEN  SALAD. 

6  bananas.  %  cup  sugar. 

2  cans  pineapple  No.  2.  Ipt.  mayonnaise. 

4  lemons.  2  cups  hot  water. 

2  tbls.  gelatine. 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water ;  add  hot  water,  sugar  and  lemon 
juice.  When  half  congealed,  add  cut  up  bananas,  pineapple  and 
mayonnaise,  stir.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  and  leave  until  frozen. 

Mrs,  J.  W.  Hardwick. 

COOKED  OR  CANNED  PEAR  SALAD. 

1  can  pears.  Whipped  cream. 
Chopped  celery. 

Walnut  meats.  Mayonnaise. 

Serve  on  individual  plates ;  one  half  of  large  pear  sprinkled 
with  nuts,  chopped  celery  and  mayonnaise  dressing  to  which  has 
been  added  considerable  rich  whipped  cream. 

Miss  Ella  Shaunty. 
Springfield,  Ky. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD. 

2  cups  green  or  can  peas.  1  cup  chopped  celery. 
2  cups  diced  potatoes.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  cup  diced  carrots.  !/>  t-spoon  paprika. 

Mix  and  serve  with  cooked  dressing  on  lettuce. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Mudd. 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

1/2  pkg-  gelatine.  1  cup  chopped  pineapple. 

1  cup  maraschino  cherries.  1  cup  sliced  peaches. 
1/2  cup  boiling  water.                      Juice  from  fruit. 

"Dissolve  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water.  Add  1/2  cup  boiling 
water  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  fruit  and  fruit  juices.  Put  on 
ice  to  congeal.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  B.  M.  Boykin, 
President  Atlanta  Woman's  club. 

ALLIGATOR  PEAR  SALAD. 
(Ensalada  de  Agucate  Mexicana) 

2  alligator  pears.  1  cup  apple  vinegar. 

3  ripe  tomatoes.  2  tbls.  french  mustard. 
1/2  small  onion.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

l"cup  olive  oil.  Grated  cheese. 


SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND  DRESSINGS  65 


Peel  and  slice  length  wise  the  pears  and  tomatoes;  add  onion 
chopped  fine.  To  vinegar,  add  mustard,  salt,  pepper;  stir  thor- 
oughly then  add  olive  oil.  Pour  this  over  pears  and  tomatoes,  sprin- 
kle grated  cheese  over  top  and  serve  cold. 

Carmen  M.  De  Rueda, 
Calle  Alvarado  N.  11,  Mexico  City. 

ENGLISH  SALAD. 
1  head  lettuce.  3  cucumbers. 

4  cooked  beets.  4  radishes. 

5  raw  tomatoes.  Water  cress. 

Pull  to  pieces  the  head  of  lettuce.  Peel  and  slice  thinly  beets, 
tomatoes,  cucumbers,  radishes  and  mix  with  the  chopped  water 
cress.  Garnish  with  tomato  and  hard  boiled  egg.  Serve  with 
french  dressing  (not  on  the  salad  but  in  separate  bowl). 

Mrs.  Bertram  Ibbetson. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

6  cucumbers.  Vinegar. 

Olive  oil.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Parsley.  Lettuce. 

Peel  cucumbers  thinly,  cut  into  thin  slices,  pour  over  2  parts 
olive  oil  and  1  part  vinegar,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley,    Mix  well  by  tossing  and  set  on  ice  before  serving. 

Mrs.  John  Walter  Buckels, 

Houston,  Texas. 

CHERRY  SALAD. 

1  can  white  cherries.  1/2  lb.  blanched  almonds. 

1  can  sliced  pineapple.  Mayonnaise. 

Remove  seed  from  cherries  and  stuff  with  almonds;  place  a 
slice  of  pineapple  on  lettuce,  cherries  on  top  of  pineapple ;  then  may- 
onnaise 

Mrs.  0.  J.  Redwine. 

GUACAMOLE. 

2  alligator  pears.  1  t-spoon  olive  oil. 
14  onion.  1  pinch  cayenne. 

1  clove  of  garlic.  1  sweet  pomegranate. 

Mash  pears  and  mix  with  crushed  onions,  Cayenne  and  garlic. 
Have  all  perfectly  smooth,  then  stir  in  seeds  of  pomgranate.  Serve 
cold. 

Carmen  M.  De  Rueda, 
Calle  Alvarado  No.  11,  Mexico  City. 

EASTER  EGG  SALAD. 
Lettuce.  Maraschino  cherries. 

1  can  pineaple.  White  pitted  cherries. 

Paprika.  Tokay  grapes. 

Mayonnaise.  American  or  Cottage  cheese. 

On  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf,  place  a  slice  of  pineapple.    On  this  ar- 


66  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 

range  a  circle  of  mayonnaise,  sprinkled  with  paprika.  In  the  hol- 
low formed  by  the  mayonnaise  place  varicolored  balls  made  of  cher- 
ries, grapes,  shaped  cheese,  nuts  and  etc.,  made  into  balls. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Ryan. 

ORANGE  PEANUT  SALAD. 

1  banana.  V2  cup  peanuts  (shelled). 

2  oranges. 

Remove  the  skin  from  banana,  scrape  and  cut  in  quarters 
(lengthwise)  and  thirds  (crosswise)  ;  roll  in  finely  chopped  pea- 
nuts. Peal  oranges,  cut  in  slices  crosswise,  cut  out  center  of  oranges, 
insert  banana  through  each  slice;  arrange  on  lettuce  leaf.  Pour 
over  French  dressing. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Massenburg. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 
2  pkgs.  lemon  jello.  Mayonnaise. 

1  can  pears.  Lettuce. 

1  can  pineapple. 

Follow  directions  on  pkg.  for  mixing  jello ;  when  it  begins  to 
cool,  put  in  cut  pieces  of  pear  and  pineapple.  When  congealed 
serve  with  mayonnaise  on  lettuce. 

Ida  V.  Sewell. 

TOMATO  AND  EGG  SALAD. 
6  large  cooked  eggs.  Lettuce. 

1/2  cup  melted  butter.  Tomatoes. 

Chop  eggs  until  fine,  add  melted  butter  and  seasonings.  Pack 
very  tightly  in  a  tumbler  and  chill.  When  ready  to  serve  cut  toma- 
toes in  half  inch  slices.  Remove  eggs  from  glass  and  cut  in  half 
inch  slices  to  correspond  with  tomato.  Place  slice  of  tomato,  egg 
and  top  with  another  slice  of  tomato.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaf  and 
serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Edward  Porter  Van  Valkenburgh, 

Harper,  Kansas. 

NUT  GELATINE  SALAD. 
1  pkg.  gelatine.  1  can  pimentos. 

1  cup  broken  walnut  meats.  2  sweet  pickles. 

5  hard  boiled  eggs.  1/2  cup  small  pickled  onions 

Salt  and  pepper.  V4.  cup  vinegar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water;  dissolve  in  one  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Then  add  nuts,  eggs,  pimentos,  onions  (all  chopped  fine) 
now  add  vinegar,  salt  pepper  and  paprika.  Let  stand  until  cold 
then  stir  in  one  cup  of  mayonnaise  and  chill  in  individual  molds. 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Sydney  Smith. 

DELICIOUS  SALAD. 
2-lb.  can  sliced  pineapple.  1  cup  nut  meats,  pecan. 

1/2  lb.  white  grapes.  1  bunch  celery. 

1  dozen  marshmallows.  1  head  lettuce. 


SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND  DRESSINGS  67 


Drain  all  juice  from  pineapple,  place  each  slice  on  crisp  lettuce. 
Cut  grapes  in  halves  removing  seed,  marshmallows  in  4  pieces.  Use 
only  tender  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Mix  last  3  ingredients  with 
nuts ;  place  portion  of  mixture  on  each  slice  of  pineapple  and  top 
v^^ith  following  dressing ; 

Dressing. 

1  cup  pineapple  juice.  1  egg. 

1  tbls.  flour.  1/^  cup  whipped  cream. 

1  t-spoon  sugar.  l^  t-spoon  salt. 

1  t-spoon  lemon  juice. 

Combine  sugar,  salt  and  flour;  stir  this  in  14  pineapple  juice 
until  very  smooth,  add  well  beaten  egg,  lemon  juice  and  remainder 
of  pineapple  juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  When  cool 
beat  in  whipped  cream  until  whole  is  perfectly  smooth.  Ingre- 
dients for  salad  may  be  prepared — but  not  mixed  or  dressing  added 
until  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carhsle, 
Chairman  Cook  Book. 

APPLE  SALAD. 

Apples.  Nuts. 

Vegetable  tablet  of  pink.  Lettuce. 

Chopped  raisins.  Cooked  dressing. 

Peel  and  core  any  number  of  apples,  leaving  them  whole.  Place 
in  a  pan,  cover  with  boiling  water.  Let  simmer  until  tender  add  the 
tablet  of  pink;  when  apples  are  well  colored,  remove  to  cool,  then 
fill  with  chopped  raisins  and  nuts.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  dressing 
or  with  whipped  cream  as  a  desert. 

Miss  Ella  Shaunty, 
Springfield,  Ky. 

CUCUMBER  BASKETS. 
4  tbls  olive  oil,  6  cucumbers, 

8  tbls,  vinegar.  6  ripe  tomatoes. 

Dash  of  pepper.  Pinch  of  salt. 

Select  regular  shaped  cucumbers;  cut  a  piece  from  both  the 
stem  and  blossom  end,  then  cut  in  halves  crosswise,  cut  two  pieces 
from  each  section,  leaving  remaining  piece  in  shape  of  basket  with 
handle.  Remove  pulp  in  large  pieces  to  cut  in  squares  for  refilling 
1/2  of  each  basket,  the  remaining  half  being  filled  with  pieces  of 
tomatoes.     Pour  over  French  dressing,  serve  cold, 

Mrs,  Samuel  L,  Dabney. 

MARSHMALLOW  SALAD, 

1/2  lb.  marshmallows.  1  cup  broken  pecan  meats. 

1    large  can  pineapple. 

Mix  and  serve  with  the  following  sauce ; 

11/2  tbls.  flour  cooked  with  1  tbls.  of  butter.    Blend  well,  add 


68  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


one  cup  sweet  cream  cook  until  thick.  Take  from  fire  add  1  cup 
clabbered  cream,  juice  1  lemon,  and  pinch  of  salt.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Tegder. 

CHEESE  GELATINE. 

11/2  pts.  of  cream  whipped  stiff.    3  minced  pimentos. 
1  cup  grated  American  cheese.     Salt  and  pepper. 
11/2  tbls.  gelatine.  Mustard. 

9  chopped  olives. 

Soak  gelatine  and  dissolve  over  hot  water ;  add  olives  and  pep- 
per, also  seasoning — ^when  cool — add  grated  cheese  and  then  fold  in 
carefully  the  whipped  cream.  Let  congeal.  Serve  individually  with 
mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Hayes, 
Pres.  Ga.  Federation  of  Women's  Clubs. 

PERFECTION  SALAD. 
1  envelope  gelatine.  1  cup  cabbage. 

1/^  cup  of  cold  water.  Juice  of  1  lemon. 

V2  cup  tarragon  vinegar.  I/2  cup  of  sugar. 

1  pt.  boiling  water.  2  cups  chopped  celery. 

1  tbls.  salt.  1/4  can  sweet  red  pepper. 
Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  5  minutes,  add  boiling  water,  vin- 
egar, lemon  juice,  sugar,  and  salt.    Strain  and  when  beginning  to 
set  add  remaining  ingredients.    Turn  into  a  mold  and  chill.    Serve 
on  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Harry  L.  Wills. 

JELLIED  VEAL  SALAD. 

2  lbs,  veal.  1  cup  olives,  chopped  fine. 
1  onion,  chopped  fine.                     4  hard  boiled  eggs. 

1  stalk    celery,    cut    in  small     1  t-spoon  salt. 

pieces.  i/i  t-spoon  pepper. 

3  sprigs  parsley,  cut  up.  2  tbls.  gelatine. 
1  lemon  (juice). 

Boil  veal  till  it  falls  from  bone.  Remove  meat,  add  onion  and 
celery  to  broth,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  strain  stock.  Soak  gelatine  a 
few  minutes  in  half  cup  cold  water,  add  to  hot  stock,  then  the  lemon 
juice.  Mix  veal  (cut  up)  eggs,  olives  and  parsley,  pour  stock  over 
mixture,  mold  in  individual  molds,  serve  on  lettuce  with  cooked 
mavonnaise. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Mudd, 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 

SHRIMP  SALAD  NO.  L 

1  pt.  shrimp.  Lettuce  or  watercress. 

2  hard  boiled  eggs.  Mayonnaise. 
Ripe  tomatoes. 

If  canned  shrimp  are  used,  they  should  be  thoroughly  washed 


SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND  DRESSINGS  69 


in  cold  water.  Pull  the  shrimp  to  pieces.  Place  on  sliced  ripe  to- 
matoes. Around  this  use  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs  over  lettuce  or 
watercress,  and  cover  with  Durkees  or  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve 
very  cold. 

Mrs.  Kate  Gramling  Hardin. 

SHRIMP  SALAD  NO.  2. 
2  cups  shrimp.  V2  cup  chopped  celery. 

2  hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced.  14  cup  mayonnaise. 

2  green  peppers,  cut  in  rings. 
Wash  and  prepare  shrimp,  rinse  in  clear  cold  water — ^then  cut 
in  halves — marinate  in  French  dressing  20  minutes ;  then  add  celery 
and  stir  in  the  mayonnaise.    Garnish  with  pepper  rings  and  sliced 
boiled  eggs.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Massenburg. 

SALAD  a  la  RUSSE. 

6  tomatoes.  1/3  cup  cold  cooked  peas. 

1/3  cup  cucumbers  cut  in  dice.       V2  cup  cold  cooked  chicken. 

1/4  cup  pickles  finely  chopped.        Parsley. 

2  tbls.  capers. 

Peel  6  tomatoes  and  remove  thin  slices  from  top  of  each.  Take 
out  seeds  and  pulp.  Sprinkle  inside  with  salt,  invert  and  let  stand 
1/4  hour.  Place  seeds  and  pulp  removed  from  tomatoes  in  a 
strainer  and  drain.  Mix  cucumbers,  pickles,  capers,  peas,  chicken, 
with  1/3  cup  tomato  pulp  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar. 
Put  in  cheese  cloth  and  squeeze;  then  add  I/2  cup  cold  cooked 
chicken  cut  in  very  small  dice.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  re- 
fill tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  place  each 
on  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 

COLD  SLAW. 
4  cups  white  cabbage.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

2  tbls.  sugar.  Dash  of  pepper. 

3  tbls.  vinegar.  1/2  cup  of  evaporated  cream. 
Mix  sugar  and  salt  in  cream,  stir  well ;  add  vinegar  and  pepper, 

pour  over  finely  shredded  cabbage ;  set  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  Wm.  D.  Alexander. 

FRUIT  SALAD  OR  ASPIC. 
1/2  pkg.  gelatine.  1  cup  maraschino  cherries. 

1  cup  chopped  pineapple.  1  small  can  sliced  peaches. 

Dissolve  gelatine,  put  in  juice  and  fruit  of  cherries,  pineapple 
and  peaches.  Let  congeal  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Havis,  Jr. 

GRAPEFRUIT  AND  PINEAPPLE  ASPIC. 
3  grapefruits.  2  envelopes  gelatine. 

1  can  shredded  pineapple.  1/2  cup  sugar. 


70  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


Peel  grapefruit  and  remove  white  pulp,  add  pineapple  and 
juice,  also  sugar.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  v^ater,  melt  over  hot 
v^ater  and  add  to  fruits.  Add  enough  water  to  make  li/o  quarts  of 
the  mixture.    Put  on  ice  to  congeal.    Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Rogers. 

RAW  CARROT  SALAD. 
2  cups  carrots,  peeled  and  run     1  cup  green  peas  or 

through    large    disc    of     1  cup  lima  beans  cooked, 
meat  grinder.  1  chopped  green  pepper. 

1  cup  diced  celery.  1  finely  minced  onion. 

1  cup  green  beans  cooked. 

Mix  all  together  with  fork,  adding  2  teaspoons  salt,  1  tbls. 
sugar,  l^  cup  vinegar.  Let  stand  one  half  hour  to  marinate,  then 
stir,  drain,  and  add  one  cup  mayonnaise.    Serve  on  lettuce. 

Mrs.  G.  B.  Denman. 

ENGLISH  WALNUT  SALAD. 
1  pt.  English  walnuts.  1  cup  chopped  apples. 

1  cup  minced  celery.  1  tbls.  olive  oil. 
4  tbls.  lemon  juice.                          Mayonnaise. 

Soak  walnuts  in  lemon  juice  30  minutes,  drain,  then  mix  with 
celery  and  apples.  Pour  over  all  the  olive  oil,  let  stand  in  ice  box 
2  hours.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  1  t-spoon  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Massenburg. 

ORIENTAL  SANDWICHES. 
Chopped  nuts.  Butter. 

Package  of  dates.  Milk  or  cream. 

Grated  cheese. 

Mix  a  cup  of  any  kind  of  chopped  nuts,  package  of  dates,  cup 
of  grated  cheese  and  butter,  also  a  little  milk  or  cream  to  soften 
mixture  so  as  to  spread  nicely  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Mrs.  E.  0.  Pritchard. 

A  DIFFERENT  SANDWICH. 
6  slices  bacon.  2  hard  boiled  eggs. 

2  tbls.  relish.  1  tbls.  mayonnaise. 
(Heinz  India). 

Crisp  bacon,  mix  with  eggs  chopped  fine,  stir  in  the  relish,  add 
mayonnaise.    Spread  rather  thickly  on  thin  slices  of  white  bread. 

Mrs.  H.  Wason. 

HAM  SANDWICH. 
1/2  lb.  boiled  ham.  6  sweet  pickles. 

4  hard  boiled  eggs.  Mayonnaise. 

Grind  ham,  eggs  pickles  through  food  chopper,  add  enough 
mayonnaise  to  moisten. 

Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Singer. 


SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND  DRESSINGS  71 


PRUNE  SANDWICH. 
Prunes.  Lemon  juice. 

Nuts  (pecan).  Salt. 

Butter. 

Soak  large  prunes  over  night.  Boil  with  very  little  sugar.  Re- 
move stones  and  run  prunes  and  equal  quantity  of  pecan  nuts 
through  meat  grinder.  Mix  into  a  smooth  paste  with  a  pinch  of 
salt  a  little  butter  and  lemon  juice.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  whole 
wheat  or  white  bread  and  trim  into  attractive  shapes. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Ryan. 

CHICKEN  SANDWICH. 

1  cup  chicken.  1  cup  of  celery. 

2  tbls.  butter.  4  tbls.  mayonnaise. 

1  egg.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Put  chicken  through  meat  grinder,  add  egg  hard  boiled  and 
mashed.  Cut  celery  very  fine,  add  with  mayonnaise  salt  and 
pepper  to  mixture  and  stir  well  together,  put  melted  butter  on  one 
slice  of  bread,  and  mayonnaise  on  the  other.  Spread  mixture  be- 
tween slices  and  press  together. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle, 
Cookbook  Chairman. 

RIBBON  SANDWICH. 

2  pkg.  Phil,  cream  cheese.  2  sandwich  loaves. 
1/4  cup  nut  meats.                            Dash  of  salt. 

1/4  cup  seedless  raisins.  Red  coloring. 

Cream  cheese  with  fork,  add  mayonnaise  to  thin ;  stir  in  a  few 
drops  of  coloring,  enough  to  make  a  clear  pink,  mix  in  finely  chopped 
nut  meats.  Cut  loaf  lengthwise  into  6  slices,  spread  thick  with 
cheese  filling  to  make  one  layer  of  white  and  one  layer  of  pink. 
Wrap  in  wet  napkin,  leave  in  ice  box  one  hour.  Take  out  and  slice 
in  1/4  inch  slices. 

Mrs.  Walter  Marshall. 

RAISIN  SANDWICH. 
14  lb.  seedless  raisins.  Bread. 

Allspice.  Butter. 

Sweet  cream. 

Grind  raisins,  season  with  allspice,  thin  with  cream.  Butter 
slices  of  bread,  then  fill  with  raisin  mixture. 

Mrs.  Harry  Reynolds. 

CUCUMBER  SANDWICH. 
2  cucumbers.  Salt,  pepper. 

1  small  onion.  Paprika. 

1  slice  of  bacon.  Bread. 

Grind  and  drain.  Spread  bread  with  mayonnaise  then  fill 
with  mixture.     Cut  bread  in  thin  oblong  slices. 

Mrs.  Walter  Marshall. 


72  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 

ROLLED  SANDWICH. 
1  loaf  fresh  bread.  II/2  cups  mayonnaise. 

6  dill  pickles.  Dash  of  cayenne. 

Half  lb.  boiled  ham.  Pinch  of  salt. 

Cut  perfectly  fresh  sandwich  loaf  into  six  slices,  lengthwise 
of  the  loaf.  Grind  boiled  ham  fine,  mix  with  mayonnaise  and  sea- 
son. Spread  each  slice  of  bread  with  ham  mixture,  lay  pickle  on 
one  end  and  roll.  Wrap  in  wet  napkin  and  put  in  refrigerator  over 
night.  Next  morning  cut  into  one-fourth  inch  slices  crosswise.  This 
makes  a  round  sandwich,  with  a  round  pickle  for  center. 

Mrs.  Tom  Branch. 

SARDINE  SANDWICH. 
1  box  American  sardines.  2  tbls.  butter. 

1  lemon.  Salt  and  red  pepper. 

Free  the  sardines  from  skin  and  bones;  chop  to  a  fine  paste, 
add  lemon  juice  and  seasoning,  and  lastly  melted  butter.  Spread 
between  wafers  or  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter.  This  makes  20 
sandwiches. 

Mrs.  A.  O.  Woodward. 

PIMENTO  SANDWICH. 

1  pkg.  cream  cheese.  1  tbls.  pimento. 

2  tbls.  sweet  cream.  1  tbls.  nuts. 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Mrs.  Edwin  Beaver. 

ORANGE  HONEY  SANDWICHES. 
Bread  and  butter.  1/2  cup  orange  peel. 

1  cup  sugar.  1/2  cup  orange  juice. 
l^  cup  water.                                    1/2  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Chop  orange  peel  fine;  bring  sugar,  orange  juice  and  water 
to  a  boil  and  cook  until  syrup  will  thread  when  dropped  from  end 
of  a  spoon.  Add  orange  peel  and  vanilla,  bring  again  to  the  boiling 
point  and  cool.  Spread  sparingly  white  bread  cut  in  thin  slices, 
with  creamed  butter  and  the  orange  honey.  Put  together  in  sand- 
wich form,  remove  crusts,  and  cut  in  finger-shaped  pieces.  Pile  in 
log-cabin  fashion,  on  dainty  doily-covered  plate. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

2  eggs.  1  tbls.  sugar. 

1  tbls.  mustard.  1  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

3  tbls.  vinegar. 

Beat  eggs,  add  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  vinegar.  Boil, 
stirring  until  thick  and  smooth.  Add  cup  of  whipped  cream.  Mix 
thoroughly. 

Mrs.  W.  Frank  Daub. 


SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND  DRESSINGS 


73 


DRESSING  FOR  LETTUCE. 


2  t-spoons  sugar. 

1  t-spoon  salt. 

2  t-spoon  white  pepper. 

1  heaping  t-spoon  paprika. 
Mix  well.     Will  be  thick. 


2  t-spoons  Worcester  sauce. 
1  tbls.  prepared  mustard. 
1  tbls.  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 
4  tbls.  oil. 

Mrs.  Wm.  L.  Percy. 


CREOLE 

SAUCE. 

6 

green  peppers. 

1  can  tomatoes. 

6 

sprigs  of  celery. 

1/2  lb.  butter  or  1  pt. 

2 

small  onions. 

1  t-spoon  sugar. 

1 

can  mushrooms. 

1  t-spoon  salt. 

1 

can  peas. 

Pinch  of  red  pepper, 

Put  peppers,  celery  and  onions  through  meat  grinder,  add  other 
ingredients  and  cook  slowly,  down  to  half  the  quantity.  Thicken 
with  a  little  flour. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Zachry. 

COOKED  SALAD  DRESSING. 
Yolk  1  egg  (well  beaten).  1  t-spoon  chopped  parsley. 

1  t-spoon  sugar.  8  tbls.  vinegar. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  1  boiled  egg. 

1  t-spoon  mustard. 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  mixture  thickens,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Thin  with  milk  or  cream.  Add  boiled  egg,  chopped  fine, 
before  serving. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Duggan. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 
1  t-spoon  mustard.  Yolks  of  2  eggs. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  2  tbls.   lemon   juice  or   1   tbls. 

1  t-spoon  sugar.  vinegar. 

11/2  cups  oil.  1  extra  t-spoon  vinegar,  put  in 

Few  grains  cayenne.  immediately  after  break- 

ing yolks. 
Mix  salt,   sugar,   pepper  and  mustard  thoroughly,  then   add 
yolks.      Beat  with  dover  egg-beater,  add  vinegar,  then  oil,  drop 
by  drop  and  beat  until  very  thick.     Add  lemon  juice  to  thin  mixture, 
alternate  until  all  is  used. 

Mrs.  Horace  J.  Pope. 


THOUSAND  ISLE  DRESSING.    I. 


t-spoon  chopped  onion, 
t-spoon  chopped  dill  pickle, 
t-spoon  chopped  parsley, 
cup  stiff  mayonnaise, 
tbls.  chili  sauce. 


1/2  t-spoon  worchester  sauce. 
1  t-spoon  chopped  pimento. 
1  t-spoon  chopped  cucumber. 
1  t-spoon  chopped  beets. 
1  hard  boiled  egg,  chopped  fine. 


Mix  all  together;  add  mayonnaise  dressing.     If  higher  season 
is  liked,  add  a  little  tobasco.     Serve  on  head  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Carlisle  Smith. 


74  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


HOLLANDAISE  DRESSING. 
4  tbls.  olive  oil.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

4  egg  yolks.  1/10  t-spoon  cayenne  pepper. 

11/2  tbls.  lemon  juice.  1  cup  hot  water. 

Put  oil  in  double  boiler,  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  season- 
ing. Beat  together,  then  add  slowly  the  hot  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens,  but  do  not  boil.  Remove  from  the  fire  and 
continue  to  stir  for  a  few  minutes.  It  should  be  creamy  and  con- 
sistent. 

Mrs.  S.  L.  Dabney. 

WHIP  CREAM  FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING. 

1  heaping  tbls.  butter.  1/2  cup  scalded  milk. 

1  tbls.  flour.  3  tbls.  vinegar. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  2  egg  yolks. 

1  t-spoon  sugar.  1/2  Pt-  whipped  cream. 

Pinch  of  mustard. 

Cream  butter  and  dry  ingredients  and  beat  in  egg  yolk,  add 
scalded  milk  slowly,  and  then  vinegar.  Cook  slowly  stirring  con- 
stantly until  thickens.  Put  in  deep  bowl  and  beat  until  creamy 
with  fork. 

This  will  keep  indefinitely. 

When  ready  to  serve  whip  1/2  pirit  cream  and  add  3  tbls.  dress- 
ing, beating  it  in  well.    Excellent  on  any  combination  of  fruit. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Stevens. 

SLAW  DRESSING. 
1  cup  vinegar.  1  egg  yolk. 

1  t-spoon  flour.  2  t-spoon  sugar. 

1  t-spoon  butter.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  small  t-spoon  mustard.  Pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Cream  butter  and  all  dry  ingredients  except  sugar,  then  add 
egg  yolk.  Gradually  beat  in  vinegar,  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick.    When  cool  add  sugar. 

Mrs.  W.  L.  Northern, 

Norfolk,  Va. 

EGGLESS  BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING. 
%  t-spoon  mustard.  V4,  t-spoon  celery  salt. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  1  tbls.  flour. 

1/8  t-spoon  pepper.  1  tbls.  sugar. 

3  tbls.  vinegar.  1  cup  cream. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  add  cream.  When  smooth  turn  in 
boiling  vinegar  and  cook  until  creamed.  If  inconvenient  to  use 
cream,  %  cup  milk  and  1/4  tbls.  melted  butter  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  T.  F.  Abercrombie. 

MAYONNAISE. 

1  pt.  can  Wesson  oil  (chilled).       V4,  t-spoon  red  pepper. 

2  egg  yolks.  1/2  lemon  (juice). 
1/2  t-spoon  salt. 


SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND  DRESSINGS  75 


Break  eggs  in  bowl  add  salt  and  pepper.  Add  oil  slowly  until 
1  cup  has  been  used,  have  the  juice  of  one  lemon  ready  and  add 
half.  Continue  whipping  with  fork  adding  oil  and  lemon  until 
right  consistency. 

This  keeps  splendidly  if  put  in  fruit  jar  and  kept  in  ice  box. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Manry. 

THOUSAND  ISLE  DRESSING  .  II. 

2  cups  mayonnaise.  1  large  green  pepper. 
1  small  bottle  chili  sauce.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

3  hard  boiled  egss.  Dash  of  red  pepper. 
3  pimentos.  1/2  t-spoon  paprika. 

1  small  onion.  1/2  cup  grated  cheese. 

Mash  eggs  fine  and  stir  part  of  mayonnaise  into  mixture.  Put 
other  ingredients  through  meat  grinder,  or  chop  very  fine.  Stir  in 
rest  of  mayonnaise.    Serve  on  lettuce  or  tomatoes. 

Mrs.  D.  J.  Jones. 

ITALIAN  DRESSING. 
1  t-spoon  tomato  ketchup.  4  tbls.  olive  oil. 

1/2  t-spoon  paprika.  1  tbls.  lemon  juice. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  1/2  t-spoon  onion  juice. 

Pinch  of  dry  mustard.  2  tbls.  capers. 

Put  all  together  in  a  cruet  and  shake  until  they  mix. 

Mrs.  Norman  Pool. 

ROQUEFORT  DRESSING. 
6  tbls.  roquefort  cheese.  l^  t-spoon  paprika. 

11/2  tbls.  dry  mustard.  1  tbls.  vinegar. 

■14  t-spoon  salt.  i/i  cup  salad  oil. 

■14  t-spoon  pepper. 

Cream  cheese  and  olive  oil,  add  seasoning.  When  smooth  and 
thick,  add  1  t-spoon  Worcester  sauce. 

Mrs.  T.  D.  Body. 


CHAFING  DISH  SUGGESTIONS. 

Mrs.  Charles  F.  Evans. 
Chairman. 


''The  merry  chafing-dish  bring  forth, 

Place  in  a  lump  of  butter 
Of  quality  and  best  renown, 

And  at  expense  don't  mutter. 

Of  mushrooms  now,  take  teacups  two, 

Cut  fine,  and  gently  simmer ; 
Ten  minutes  just  about  will  do — 

Don't  scorch,  or  you're  a  sinner. 

Of  strained  tomatoes  use  a  cup, 

A  quarter  one  of  cheese ; 
Stir  constantly  with  no  let  up ; 

Add  pepper,  if  you  please. 

Two  eggs  you  next  must  briskly  beat, 

And  smoothly  make  all  leaven ; 
Pour  over  toast — then  quickly  eat 

And  dream  you  are  in  Heaven !" 

CRAB  MEAT. 
1  can,   (large)  Japanese  crab.      1  can  (large)  evaporated  cream 
1  can,  (small)  pimentos.  2  eggs. 

1  large    cup    chopped    cheese, 
(American). 
Place  butter,  size  of  an  egg,  in  chafing  dish.  Put  in  crab  meat, 
remove   bones   as    it   heats.     Add    cheese   and    pimentos.      When 
cheese  melts  add  milk  and  eggs  beaten  together.      Salt  and  red 
pepper  to  taste.     When  cream  sauce  thickens  serve  at  once. 

Palmer  Johnson. 


CHAFING  DISH  SUCxGESTIONS  77 


OLIVE  STUFFED  EGGS. 
(In  cream  sauce). 
4  eggs  hard  boiled.  1/4  t-spoon  curry  powder. 

34  cup  ripe  olives.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

2  tbls.  butter.  1/8  t-spoon  pepper. 

3  tbls.  flour.  11/2  cups  milk. 

Cut  eggs  in  halves  and  remove  yolks.  Stone  olives  and  chop 
one-fourth  of  them  very  fine.  Mix  these  with  the  yolks,  season, 
and  refill  whites  with  mixture.  Chill  thoroughly,  cut  in  slices. 
Melt  the  butter  in  chafing  dish,  add  dry  ingredients,  then  the  milk, 
and  stir  constantly  until  it  boils.  Arrange  the  slices  of  eggs  on  hot 
buttered  toast,  pour  cream  sauce  over  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Howard  H.  McCall. 
State  Chair.  Georgia  Federation  of  Woman's  Clubs. 

RED  DEVIL. 
(For  The  Chafing  Dish). 
%  lb.  American  cheese.  I/2  t-spoon  dry  mustard. 

1  can    tomato    or   tomato-okra 
soup. 
Dice  the  cheese,  melt  in  chafing  dish  over  boiling  water  and 
stir  until  cheese  is  smooth     Add  the  soup  and  mustard,  stirring  un- 
til thoroughly  mixed.     Sprinkle  with  paprika  and  serve  on  rounds 
of  hot  toast. 

Mr.  Newton  C.  Wing. 

FIG  CUPS. 
14  lb.  dried  washed  figs.  2  tbls.  sugar. 

1/2  lb  chopped  salted  almonds.        1  t-spoon  lemon  juice. 
1/2  cup  wine.  Lady  fingers. 

Stuff  figs  with  almonds.  Put  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  wine  in 
chafing  dish  and  when  hot  add  stuffed  figs.  Cover  and  cook  until 
figs  are  tender.     Serve  with  lady  fingers. 

Mrs.  D.  J.  Jones. 

WOODCHUCK. 
1  pt.  milk.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

6  tbls.  flour.  1  t-spoon  mustard. 

4  tbls.  butter.  1/2  t-spoon  paprika. 

3  hard  boiled  eggs.  1  cup  cheese,   (Amer.), 

Cream  flour  and  butter  together  in  chafing-dish  set  over  hot 
water ;  when  bubbling  mix  in  milk  gradually.  When  smooth,  season 
with  salt,  mustard,  and  paprika.  Add  cheese  cut  in  small  cubes. 
When  thoroughly  melted,  add  eggs  sliced.      (Enough  for  8  people.) 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Harris. 
Chattanooga,  Tenn. 

CHICKEN  ALMOND. 
1  cold  boiled  chicken.  1  small  can  mushrooms. 

1/^  lb.  blanched  almonds.  1/8  lb.  butter. 

1  small  stalk  celery. 


78  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


Put  butter  in  chafing-dish,  add  chopped  celery  and  almonds. 
When  celery  is  cooked  tender  add  chicken  and  mushrooms  also 
chopped.  Add  1  cup  water  in  which  chicken  was  boiled,  2  cups 
if  small.  Add  2  t-spoons  Worcester  sauce.  Season  with  salt  and 
red  pepper.      Serve  soon  as  thoroughly  hot. 

Palmer  Johnson. 

ENGLISH  MONKEY. 

1/2  cup  grated  cheese.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

1  cup  grated  bread  crumbs.  Pinch  of  cayenne. 

1  cup  milk.  1  egg. 

1  tbls.  butter. 

Stir  butter  and  cheese  together  until  melted ;  add  bread  crumbs, 
milk  and  beaten  egg ;  season  and  cook  till  thick  and  creamy.  Serve 
on  buttered  rounds  of  toast  or  saltines. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Harris, 
Chattanooga,  Tenn. 

HOT  STUFF. 
1  can  tomato  soup.  4  eggs. 

1  onion  (small).  Red  pepper  to  taste. 

1  cup  Amer.  cheese  (grated). 

Slice  and  par-boil  the  onions.  Let  soup  come  to  a  boil,  add  the 
onion  and  cup  of  grated  cheese.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the 
eggs  separately ;  mix  and  fold  into  the  boiling  soup  and  cook  1  min- 
ute.    Serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  McRee,  (The  Daffodil). 

SCOTCH  WOODCOCK. 

1  small  onion.  2  eggs. 

1  can  tomatoes.  2  dozen  saltines. 

1  tbls.  butter. 

Slice  and  fry  the  onion  slowly  in  butter,  add  tomatoes.  Heat 
thoroughly  and  add  the  eggs  beaten.    Serve  on  saltines. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Harris. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING. 

1  small  can  pimentos.  1  small  can  button  mushrooms. 

2  cups  diced  chicken. 

Make  a  cream  sauce,  then  add  pimentos  drained,  mushrooms 
and  chicken.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Sims. 

ITALIAN  MACARONI. 

1  can  tomato  soup.  1  can  mushrooms. 

1  cup  grated  cheese,  (Amer).         2  cups  cooked  macaroni. 

Melt  cheese,  stir  in  soup  gradually.  Put  chopped  mushrooms 
in,  then  macaroni.  Season  highly  with  red  pepper,  paprika,  salt. 
Serve  on  crackers  after  cooked  down. 

Mrs.  Carroll  McGaughey. 


CHAFING  DISH  SUGGESTIONS  79 


PIGS  IN  BLANKETS. 

Dry  large  fat  oysters  on  a  cloth,  roll  around  each  one  a  very 
thin  slice  of  bacon  and  skewer  with  new  tooth-picks.  Fry  in  greased 
chafing-dish.      Serve  on  rounds  of  toast. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Cresse. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

1  tbls.  butter.  1/2  lb.  soft  mild  cheese,  (cut  in 

1  t-spoon  corn  starch.  small  pieces). 
1/2  cup  thin  cream.                          l^  t-spoon  mustard. 

Few  grains  cayenne. 
Put  butter  in  chafing-dish  and  when  melted  add  corn  starch 
and  stir  until  well  mixed,  then  add  cream  gradually  while  stirring 
constantly,  and  cook  two  minutes.    Add  cheese  and  stir  until  cheese 
is  melted.     Serve  with  crackers. 

Mrs.  D.  J.  Jones. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

1/2  cup  milk.  14  t-spoon  salt. 

2  cups  grated  American  cheese.     1/2  t-spoon  paprika. 

1  t-spoon  mustard.  2  eggs. 

Put  milk  in  sauce  pan  and  set  over  fire.  When  hot  add  cheese 
and  stir  until  it  melts.  Add  quickly  mustard,  salt,  paprika  and 
eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Pour 
over  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Carroll  McGaughey. 

CHEESE  DISH. 

2  eggs.  1  t-spoon  dry  mustard. 
1  cup  of  milk.  1  tbls.  butter. 

1  cup  fresh  bread  crumbs.  A  pinch  of  salt  and  paprika. 

2  cups  grated  Amer.  cheese. 

Place  butter  in  blazer  of  chafing-dish.  When  hot  add  milk, 
bread  crumbs,  cheese,  paprika  and  salt.  Stir  constantly  and  when 
well  blended  add  two  well  beaten  eggs.  Cook  one  minute  and 
serve  at  once  on  hot  crackers. 

Mrs.  George  Rice, 
New  Orleans,  La. 

LOBSTER  NEWBERG. 
1  boiled  lobster.  1  gill  sherry. 

Large  lump  butter.  1  pt.  cream. 

Yolks  3  eggs. 

Put  lobster  in  chafing-dish  with  butter,  stir  gently  until  buttei 
is  melted  and  lobster  heated  through.  Mix  sherry  with  cream  and 
egg  yolks — fij-st  blending  latter  with  enough  cream  to  make  thick 
as  mayonnaise.  Pour  mixture  into  the  chafing-dish  over  the  lob- 
ster. Let  simmer  a  moment,  then  pour  sherry  or  bevo  over  the 
whole  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 


80  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


CHEESE  FONDUE. 

1  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  flour. 

2  eggs.  American  cheese. 

1  t-spoon  butter. 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together,  melt,  and  add  milk  and  beaten 
eggs.  Cook  in  upper  part  of  chafing-dish  over  boiling  water  until 
thick.  For  each  cup  of  sauce  add  a  cup  of  grated  cheese  and  cook 
just  a  moment.     Pour  on  to  rounds  of  toast. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  McRee,  (The  Daffodil.) 
SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  CALF'S  BRAINS. 
4  eggs.  1/2  cup  milk. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  1/3  t-spoon  pepper. 

2  tbls.  butter.  1  calf's  brain. 

Par-boil  calf's  brain  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Beat  eggs  slightly 
using  silver  fork;  add  salt,  pepper,  milk  and  calf's  brains.  Place 
butter  in  hot  chafing  dish  and  when  melted  pour  in  the  mixture. 
Cook  until  creamy  and  constantly  stir  and  scrape  the  bottom  of  pan. 

To  prepare  calf's  brains:  Soak  one  hour  in  cold  water  to 
cover.  Remove  membrane,  and  par-boil  20  minutes  in  boiling 
salted,  acidulated  water.  Drain,  put  on  cold  water;  as  soon  as 
cold,  drain  again,  and  separate  in  small  pieces. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS. 
1  pt.  oysters.  1  rounded  tbls.  flour. 

1  tbls.  butter.  2  cups  milk. 

Melt  butter,  put  flour  in  butter  and  when  thoroughly  blended 
add  liquor  from  oysters  and  milk.  Let  cook  until  thick  and  then 
add  oysters.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Sims. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBERG. 

3  eggs.  1/2  pt.  cream. 
1  gill  of  wine.  1  tbls.  butter. 

Cut  lobster  in  small  pieces,  put  in  chafing-dish  with  butter, 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  wine  over  this  and 
cook  ten  minutes.  Add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  cream  and 
then  let  all  come  to  a  boil. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  West. 

OYSTERS  A  LA  D'UXELLES. 

1  pt.  oysters.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

2  tbls.  chopped  mushrooms.  Y2  t-spoon  lemon  juice. 
2  tbls.  butter.                                   Few  grains  cayenne. 

2  tbls.  flour.  1  egg  yolk. 

Clean  oysters,  heat  to  boiling  point  and  drain.  Reserve  liquor 
and  strain  through  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth ;  there  should  be 
%  cup.  Cook  butter  and  mushrooms  5  minutes,  add  flour  and 
oyster  liquor  gradually,  then  cook  3  minutes.  Add  seasonings, 
oysters,  egg.  Serve  on  crackers  or  pieces  of  toasted  bread.  One 
tl3ls.  of  sherry  wine  may  be  added.  Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 


BEVERAGES. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Plage-Chairman. 

Beverages  have  little  food  value  with  the  exception  of  milk 
and  cocoa  and  are  used  chiefly  as  regulators  of  body  temperature, 
and  to  introduce  water  into  the  system.  Tea  and  coffee  should 
never  be  used  by  anyone  under  twenty-five  years  of  age  except  by 
a  doctor's  prescription.  Cocoa  is  a  mild  stimulant  also  and  should 
not  be  given  regularly  to  children. 

Mary  P.  Means. 

DELICIOUS  ICED  TEA. 
1  qt.  strong  tea.  1  dozen  lemons. 

1  qt.  mineral  water.  1  cup  (or  more)  sugar. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Willet, 
State  Chairman  Tallulah  Falls  School. 


12  lemons. 

6  oranges. 

12  limes. 

4  cups  cold  water. 

Extract  juice  from  fruit 


NORMAN  PUNCH. 

1  qt.  sugar  syrup. 

2  cups  strong  tea. 
8  cups  sweet  cider. 


Make  sugar  syrup  by  boiling  4 


lbs.  sugar  in  4  cups  water  until  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Stir 
all  ingredients  well  and  when  ready  to  serve,  add  slices  of  pine- 
apple and  orange,  strawberries  in  season  and  a  few  mint  leaves. 
This  recipe  will  fill  about  50  small  punch  glasses. 

Mrs.  Walter  S.  Campbell. 

GRAPE  JUICE. 
To  one  gallon  of  grapes  after  freed  from  stem  and  washed  add 
3  pts.  water.      Let  come  to  boiling  point  and  boil  two  minutes. 
Strain  through  cloth  and  sweeten  to  taste,  return  to  fire  and  boil  five 
minutes.      Strain  again.      Put  in  bottles  and  seal  immediately. 

Mrs.  G.  C.  Chick, 
Lexington,  Ky. 


82  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


A  REFRESHING  DRINK. 
1/2  glass  orange  juice.  1  t-spoon  ginger  ale. 

Sugar  to  taste.  Crushed  ice. 

Mrs.  LeRoy  Rogers. 

CHOCOLATE  MILK  FLOAT. 
1  glass  milk.  Chocolate  sauce. 

Vanilla  ice  cream. 

Combine  milk  and  chocolate  sauce,  add  spoonful  of  ice  cream  to 
each  glass  and  shake  well. 

Mrs.  Alec  Halstead. 

EGG  NOG. 

5  eggs.  4  this,  sugar. 

1  pt.  cream.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Beat  eggs  separately.      Whip  cream  stiff  and  combine  with 
egg  yolks,  folding  in  whites  last.     Serves  8  people. 

Mrs.  Walter  S.  Campbell. 

FRUIT  PUNCH. 
1  can  grated  pineapple.  3  cups  hot  water. 

10  oranges,  (juice).  6  lemons,  (juice). 

1  cup  tea.  1  qt.  strawberry  or  white  grape 

1  gal.  ice  water.  juice. 
3  cups  sugar  syrup. 

Combine  mixtures  and  place  on  ice.  Add  ice  water  and  garnish 
with  strawberries  and  mint  leaves. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 
3  qts.  raspberries.  1  qt.  mild  vinegar. 

2  cups   sugar  to  each   pint   of 

juice. 
Pour  vinegar  over  raspberries  and  let  stand  over  night.   Drain 
through  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth.      Measure  juice  and  to 
each  pint  allow  2  cups  sugar.      Boil  30  minutes.      Pour  into  jars 
or  bottles  when  cold. 

Mrs.  Clyde  Allison  Stevenson. 

FRUIT  PUNCH. 

6  dozen  lemons.  1  dozen  oranges. 
14  lb.  tea.                                          Cherries  to  suit. 

3  cans  grated  pineapple.  3  gals,  water  or  4  qts.  ginger 
6  cups  water.  ale. 

8  cups  sugar. 

Heat  sugar  with  water  until  thoroughly  dissolved.    Add  plain 
water  to  tea.     Mix  in  fruit  and  juices.     Serves  125  people. 

Mrs.  Jack  Branch. 


BEVERAGES  83 


HOT  CHOCOLATE. 
11/2  squares  chocolate.  5  t-spoon  sugar. 

Pinch  salt.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

3  cups  milk.  1/2  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water.  Add  sugar,  salt  and  boiling 
water.  When  smooth,  add  heated  milk  and  cook  10  minutes.  Then 
beat  with  dover  egg  beater  and  flavor.     Top  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Plage, 
Beverage  Chairman. 

ELDER  FLOWER  BEVERAGE. 

1  qt.  Elder  flowers.  9  lbs.  sugar. 

3  gals,  water.  3  lbs.  seeded  raisins. 

Pick  flowers  from  stems,  add  sugar  to  water  and  boil,  and 
pour  over  flowers.  Dissolve  2  yeast  cakes  in  luke  warm  water. 
Stir  night  and  morning  for  7  days,  add  raisins  seeded  and  chopped, 
after  which  stir  once  a  day  for  10  days.  Strain  and  bottle,  being 
careful  not  to  cork  tightly  until  fermentation  ceases.  A  tested  and 
tried  recipe  many  years  old. 
Mrs.  A.  McD.  Wilson,  Pres.  Gen.  of  Southern  Confed.  Mem,  Assn. 

ICED  MILK  CHOCOLATE. 
1/2  cup  sugar.  1/2  Pt.  boiling  water. 

2  tbls.  cocoa.  l^  t-spoon  salt. 

Mix  cocoa  and  sugar,  add  water,  boil  3  minutes,  add  salt.  This 
makes  a  rich  smooth  paste.  Place  3  tbls.  in  a  glass,  fill  with  2/3 
milk  and  1/3  water  and  crushed  ice. 

Mrs.  Arthur  W.  Chase. 

CLUB  PUNCH. 
1  gal.  ginger  ale.  1  qt.  brick  orange  ice. 

Put  ginger  ale  in  punch  bowl  with  orange  ice  and  dip  up  some 
of  the  orange  ice  with  each  glassful  of  ginger  ale. 

Mrs.  Jack  Cornell, 

Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

ORIENTAL  PUNCH. 
11/2  cups  orange  juice.  6  cloves. 

1/2  cup  lemon  juice.  1  inch  stick  cinnamon. 

1  cup  sugar.  Fresh  mint  leaves. 

1  cup  water.  1  drop  oil  of  peppermint. 

Preserved  ginger,  (size  of  wal-  Green  coloring, 
nut). 
Boil  together  for  five  minutes  the  sugar,  water,  cloves, 
cinnamon,  and  ginger  Cool,  add  fruit  juices,  strain,  add 
coloring,  and  peppermint.  Let  stand  one  hour  in  covered  dish,  then 
pour  over  large  cake  of  ice  in  punch  bowl,  and  garnish  with  mint 
leaves. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 


84 


ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


1  gal.  tea, 

1  lemon. 

14  bottle  ginger  ale. 


ICED  TEA. 

1  orange. 
1  lime. 


Mrs.  A.  L.  Milligan. 


FOR  A  SUMMER  DRAUGHT. 
Juice  1  lemon.  1  cup  cold  water. 

Sugar  to  taste.  1/2  t-spoon  carbonate  of  soda. 

When  well  mixed  put  in  the  soda,  stir  well  and  drink  while  ef- 
fervescing. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Stovel. 

STRAWBERRY  WATER. 
1  cup  strawberries.  1/2  lb.  pulverized  sugar. 

11/2    pt.  cold  water.  Juice  1  lemon. 

Crush  berrries  and  add  rest  of  mixture,  pouring  through  fine 
sieve.    Ice. 

Mrs.  Shelley  Newman. 

GINGER  ALE  FRUIT  PUNCH. 

1  cup  sugar.  %  cup  hot  tea. 

%  cup  orange  juice.  1/4  cup  lemon  juice. 

2  cups  ginger  ale.  2  cups  charged  water. 

Mix  cup  sugar  with  hot  tea.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Adc 
orange  juice,  lemon  juice  and  a  few  thin  slices  of  orange  and  ba- 
nana. Pour  into  punch  bowl  over  large  square  of  ice  and  just  before 
serving  add  ginger  ale  and  charged  water. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 

GRAPE  JUICE. 
10  lbs.  nearly  ripe  grapes.  3  cups  water. 

Sugar. 

Mash  grapes  and  put  to  boil  with  water.  Simmer  until  seeds 
and  pulp  separate,  then  strain  in  jelly  bag.  Do  not  mash  as  this 
will  cause  juice  to  become  muddy.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add  14< 
cup  sugar.  Boil  and  skim.  In  5  min.  put  in  bottles  that  have  stood 
in  hot  water.    Cork  and  keep  in  cool  dry  place. 

Mrs.  James  Wilson. 


Juice  of  5  lemons. 
2  bottles  ginger  ale. 


2  qts.  tea. 
Juice  of  3  lemons. 
1  bottle  ginger  ale. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 


MINT  ALE. 

11/2  cups  sugar. 
6  stalks  mint. 

Mrs.  C.  J. 


Stovel. 


FRUIT  PUNCH. 

Juice  of  3  oranges. 

Juice  from  1  can  pineapple. 

1  pt.  White  Rock. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Alden  Wight. 


BEVERAGES  85 


GINGER  ALE  PUNCH. 
11/2  cups  sugar.  Juice  of  4  lemons. 

1  pt.  grape  juice.  2  qts.  water. 

1  qt.  ginger  ale. 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  together  for  10  min. 
Add  remainder  water  and  lemon  juice.  Add  grape  juice  and  just 
before  serving,  the  ginger  ale.    Makes  2  gallons. 

Mrs.  J.  Edward  Ball, 

East  Lake. 

A  DELICIOUS  ICED  TEA. 
6  t-spoons  tea.  Juice  of  12  lemons. 

1  qt.  boiling  water.  1  qt.  White  Rock. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  tea,  steep  10  min.  Strain  and  sweeten 
Add  lemon  juice  and  carbonated  water  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Emily  McDougall. 

CLEAR  PUNCH. 
1  qt.  cold  tea.  Juice  12  lemons. 

Juice  6  oranges.  1  large  can  pineapple. 

1  qt".  water.  Sweeten  to  taste. 

Just  before  serving,  add  3  pints  ginger  ale. 

Mrs.  R.  F.  McCormack, 
President,  Parent  Teachers  Assn. 

BLACKBERRY  BEVERAGE. 

Mash  any  quantity  of  blackberries.  Cover  with  boiling  water 
and  let  stand  24  hours.  Strain.  To  every  gallon  of  juice  add  3  lbs. 
sugar.  Put  in  bottles  with  1  raisin  to  each  quart.  Cover  with  white 
cloth  and  change  cloth  each  morning  for  nine  days,  keeping  the 
bottles  overflowing  by  filling  them  each  morning  from  an  extra 
bottle  of  juice  saved  for  this  purpose.    Cork  gradually. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Stitt. 


PICKLES. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Minsen-Chairman. 


CHOW-CHOW. 


(Superior  English  recipe  over  100  years  old.) 


seed. 


red  peppers. 

tbls.   mustard 

oz.  tumeric. 

tbls.  celery  seed. 

tbls.  each  allspice  and  cloves, 

cup  sugar. 


2  qts.  small  white  onions.  6 

1  qt.  small  cucumbers.  4 

2  qts.  tender  string  beans.  1 

3  qts.  tomatoes.  2 
2  heads  cauliflower.  2 
2  heads  white  cabbage.  1 
2/3  cup  ground  mustard. 

Cut  beans  in  halves.     Slice  and  chop  coarsely  the  tomatoes 
Cut  cauliflower  into  small  pieces.     Mix  and  place   in  stone  jar 
sprinkling  a  small  amount  of  salt  over  vegetables.    Stand  24  hours 
Drain  off  well  all  brine.    Place  vegetables  in  preserving  kettle  ovei 
fire.      Stir    in    tumeric    for    coloring.      Add    peppers,     (chopped 
coarsely),  sugar,  mustard,  celery  seed  and  spices.    Cover  with  best 
cider  vinegar.    Cook  slowly,  stirring  constantly  until  all  vegetables 
are  tender.    Seal  hot  in  glass  jars. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Snelgrove. 


TOMATO  CHOW-CHOW.  NO.  1. 


gal.  large  green  tomatoes.  2 

doz.  large  onions.  3 

lemon,   (sliced).  3 

cups  sugar.  3 
pods  red  pepper,    (sliced), 

tbls.  whole  black  pepper.  1 

tbls.  whole  cloves.  1 


tbls.  whole  allspice. 

tbls.  celery  seed. 

tbls.  mustard  seed. 

t-spoons    anise    or    corander 

seed, 
t-spoon  horse  radish, 
t-spoon  ground  mustard. 


Wash  and  slice  tomatoes  and  onions  thin.  Sprinkle  over  them 
a  cup  of  salt.  Put  into  stone  jar  or  enamel  vessel.  Cover  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Next  morning,  wash  well  with  cold  water  and 
drain.    Put  a  gallon  of  pure  apple  vinegar  into  a  porcelain  kettle. 


PICKLES,  MARMALADES  AND  RELISHES  87 


Set  over  fire  and  add  seasonings.  Stir  mixture  well  and  when 
hot  add  tomatoes  and  onions  sliced.  Cook  all  together  for  half  hour 
or  until  tender.  Stir  gently  at  intervals  to  prevent  burning.  Seal 
hot. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Williams. 

CHOW-CHOW  NO.  2. 
3  qts.  onions.  3  qts.  tomatoes,  (green), 

3  qts.  cabbage.  3  qts.  green  bell  peppers. 

3  tbls  tumeric.  4  lbs.  sugar. 

1  qt.  red  bell  pepper.  13  doz.  pickled  cucumbers. 

1  to  3  bunches  celery.  6  tbls.  mustard. 

1  gal.  white  vinegar.  1  cup  flour. 

Shred  vegetables  and  pack  in  salt  over  night.  Drain  off  water 
before  cooking.  Make  a  paste  of  sugar,  flour,  vinegar  and  season- 
ings. Then  put  in  vegetables.  Let  come  to  boil  and  seal  in  glass 
jars. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Berly, 
South  Carolina. 

PICCALILI  OR  CHOW-CHOW  NO.  3. 
(Awarded  first  prize  at  Southeastern  Fair) 
1  pk.  green  tomatoes.  1  tbls.  ground  cloves. 

1  pt.  salt.  1  tbls.  ground  allspice. 
6  onions.  1  cup  brown  sugar. 

6  green  peppers.  1  cup  grated  horseradish. 

2  qts.  white  cabbage,    (ground    1/2  pt.  white  mustard  seed. 

fine).  Little  red  pepper,  if  desired. 

1  bunch  celery. 

Slice  tomatoes  and  cover  with  salt  over  night.  Drain  well  and 
chop  with  onions  and  peppers.  Add  cabbage,  celery,  (cut  fine)  the 
pepper  if  desired.  (Celery  and  cabbage  may  be  omitted)  Cook  a 
little  at  a  time  long  enough  to  scald  in  weak  vinegar  (one-part  vin- 
egar to  two  of  water) .  Add  other  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Fill  jars 
nearly  full  of  mixture.  Fill  to  over-flow  with  hot  apple  vinegar, 
and  seal.  Vinegar  may  be  added  to  mixture  before  filling  jars. 
Mrs,  A,  O,  Woodward, — Ex-Chairman,  Home  Econ, 

VERY  FINE  CHOW-CHOW  NO.  4. 
(Old  Recipe) 
1/2  pk.  green  tomatoes,  1/2  cup  tumeric  powder. 

2  medium  size  cabbages.  1  wine  glass  each,  spice  cloves, 
25  cucumbers,    (medium  size).  cinnamon. 

15  onions,  (medium  size).  1/2  nutmeg. 

1/^  pt.  white  mustard  seed.  1  tbls.  black  pepper, 

1  oz.  seed  or  2  bunches  fresh    1/8  t-spoon  red  pepper, 
celery  (fresh  being  more    1  gal.  vinegar, 
desirable  than  the  seed).    2  lbs.  sugar. 
Cut  vegetables  into  small  pieces,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  leave 
over  night.    Next  morning  put  in  a  bag  and  allow  all  water  to  drip 


88  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


out,  then  cover  with  vinegar  and  water  and  leave  one  day  and  night. 
Drain  off  and  squeeze  very  dry.  Then  take  1  gallon  good  vinegar 
and  2  pounds  sugar,  let  it  boil  and  pour  over  the  pickles.  Add  all 
the  spices  in  a  muslin  bag,  boil  for  an  hour  or  more,  add  green  pep- 
per to  taste  and  a  bunch  of  fresh  celery  if  you  like  it. 

Mrs.  Aurelia  Patterson. 

CHOW-CHOW  PICKLE  NO.  5. 

2  large  cabbage.  1  cup  sugar. 

6  onions.  1/2  t-spoon  cayenne. 

8  cucumbers.  1  oz.  tumeric. 

1  box  mustard. 

Chop  fine  the  cabbage,  onions  and  cucumbers,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  off  all  water,  cover  with  good 
vinegar,  adding  mustard,  sugar,  cayenne  and  tumeric.  Let  simmer 
1  hour.    Seal. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Frederick, 

Marshallville,  Ga. 
NEW  ENGLAND  MUSTARD  PICKLE  NO.  1. 

2  qts.  green  tomatoes.  1/2  cup  salt. 

2  qts.  small  onions.  2  cups  sugar. 

2  small  heads  cabbage.  l^  lb.  mustard. 

1  small  cauliflower.  I/2  oz.  tumeric  powder. 
1/2  dozen  hot  green  peppers.  %  cup  flour. 

Slice  all  fine,  cover  with  water,  add  salt,  and  let  stand  over- 
night. In  the  morning,  let  come  to  a  boil  in  the  brine.  Drain  well 
and  cover  with  vinegar.  Mix  together  mustard,  tumeric  powder, 
sugar  and  flour.  Stir  all  into  pickles.  Flour  should  be  made  into  a 
paste  by  using  a  little  vinegar  before  mixing.  Cook  until  tender, 
pack  in  jars,  and  seal.    When  cool  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Phipps. 
MUSTARD  PICKLE  NO.  2. 

2  qts.  cucumbers.  2  qts.  vinegar. 

2  qts.  onions.  3  cups  brown  sugar. 

2  qts.  tomatoes.  1  tbls.  celery  seed. 

2  qts.  cauliflower.  1  cup  flour. 

2  tbls.  mixed  mustard.  1  t-spoon  tumeric. 

Cut  vegetables  and  soak  in  salt  water  over  night.  Cook  to- 
gether 2  qts.  of  vinegar  and  the  sugar.  Add  celery  seed,  and  bro- 
ken up  pieces  of  vegetables.  When  tender  take  out  vegetables,  and 
thicken  vinegar  with  1  cup  flour,  the  tumeric,  and  mustard.  Re- 
place pickles,  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Myers. 
MIXED  MUSTARD  PICKLE. 

1  cup  flour.  1  tbls.  pepper. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  vinegar. 

1  tbls.  tumeric.  Cucumbers. 

Tomatoes.  Beans. 

Cabbage. 


PICKLES,  MARMALADES  AND  RELISHES  89 


Cut  up  cabbage,  cucumbers,  beans,  tomatoes  and  small  onions 
to  the  quantity  of  about  six  quarts.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  al- 
ternating layers.  Let  stand  over  night.  Squeeze  out  all  water, 
place  in  preserving  kettle  and  let  scald. 

Make  paste  of  flour,  vinegar,  sugar,  tumeric  and  pepper.  Mix 
well  and  stir  thoroughly  with  vinegar  to  make  one-half  gallon. 
Cook  until  slightly  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  over  the  pickle 
mixture,  adding  more  vinegar  if  too  thick.    Let  boil  and  seal  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  McKenzie, 

Montezuma,  Ga. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE  NO.  4. 
1  qt.  small  cucumbers.  4  qts.  water. 

1  qt.  small  button  onions.  4  green  peppers,  cut  fine. 

1  qt.  green  tomatoes.  1  cup  flour. 

6  tbls.  ground  mustard.  1  tbls.  tumeric. 

1  cup  sugar.  Salt. 

Make  a  brine  of  water  and  salt.  Pour  over  the  mixed  vegeta- 
bles and  let  stand  24  hours,  cutting  vegetables  fine.  Place  mixture 
over  fire  to  boil ;  then  drain  well.  Mix  flour,  mustard  and  tumeric 
with  enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  paste.  Add  sugar  and  suffi- 
cient vinegar  to  make  two  quarts  in  all.  Place  this  on  stove,  cook 
until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Add  vegetables  and  cook  until 
well  heated  through.    Seal  in  glass  jars. 

Miss  Gussie  Overby. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 
75  cucumbers.  2  oz.  allspice. 

2  large  onions.  2  oz.  cloves. 

1  t-spoon  celery  seed.  2  oz.  mace. 

2  oz.  whole  black  pepper.  2  oz.  nutmeg. 

3  lbs.  sugar.  Vinegar. 

Use  fresh  cucumbers  (size  for  eating)  and  put  in  brine  for 
two  days.  Then  soak  them  in  fresh  water  until  not  so  salty.  Wipe 
dry,  cut  in  pieces  one  inch  thick.  Boil  cucumbers  until  tender  in 
vinegar  enough  to  cover.  Add  seasonings  just  before  canning.  Two 
lemons  sliced  add  very  much  to  the  flavor.  Add  3  lbs.  of  sugar  if 
desired  sweet. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Berly. 

DUTCH  SALAD  PICKLE. 
Following  vegetables  should  be  ground  coarsely  before  measur- 
ing: 

1  qt.  green  tomatoes.  9  green  peppers  without  seed. 

1  qt.  white  onions.  1/2  cup  salt. 

1  cabbage. 

Put  above  ingredients  in  kettle,  pour  over  enough  water  to  keep 
from  sticking.  Boil  about  5  minutes,  then  drain  off  water  and  add 
dressing. 


90  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


Dressing. 

5  t-spoons  dry  mustard.  1  cup  flour. 

31/2  cups  sugar.  2  qts.  vinegar. 

Mix  and  cook  until  thick.  Add  above  ingredients  with  1  quart 
of  small  cucumber  pickles.    Cook  all  one-half  hour. 

Mrs.  Chas.  W.  Bell. 

CABBAGE  PICKLE  NO.  1. 
1  large  head  cabbage.  2  qts.  vinegar. 

1  qt.  green  tomatoes.  3  t-spoon  flour. 

1/2  doz.  onions.  2  t-spoon  mustard. 

3  cups  sugar.  2  t-spoons  allspice. 

2  t-spoon  tumeric. 

Chop  cabbage,  tomatoes,  and  onions  fine.  Add  water  enough 
to  cover,  stand  over  night.  Drain  in  the  morning.  Add  all  vinegar 
except  1/2  cup  for  mixing  spices.  Boil  until  tender;  add  flour  to 
vinegar  with  spices,  making  a  paste.  Add  this  to  pickle,  then  sugar. 
Boil  20  minutes.  If  too  thick,  add  a  little  vinegar  and  boil  two  min- 
utes or  more.    Seal  hot. 

Mrs.  Tom  Germany, 
LaFayette,  Ala. 

CABBAGE  PICKLE  NO.  2. 
11/4  doz.   cucumbers,    (chopped    8  green  bell  peppers. 

fine).  2  oz.  white  mustard  seed. 

2  large  heads  cabbage.  1  oz.  tumeric. 

2  doz.  small  onions.  1/2  box  ground  mustard. 

2  lbs.  white  sugar. 

Chop  all  vegetables  well,  sprinkling  a  little  salt  through  them 
and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  well,  place  in  preserving  kettle  and 
add  mustard  seed,  sugar,  ground  mustard  and  tumeric.  Cover  with 
good  vinegar  and  boil  until  thick.    Seal  hot. 

Mrs.  Oscar  McKenzie. 

RUMMAGE  PICKLE. 
1  qt.  tomatoes.  1  qt.  onions. 

1  qt.  cabbage.  1  qt.  apples. 

1  stalk  celery.  4  or  5  green  peppers. 

1/2  cup  salt.  2  lbs.  sugar. 

1  t-spoon  each  mustard,  cloves, 
allspice,  cinnamon  and  cel- 
ery seed. 
Chop  fine  or  leave  coarse.     Sprinkle  salt  over  this  and  mix 
well.     Let  stand  five  or  six  hours,  or  over  night.     Place  vinegai 
over  fire  into  which  sugar  has  been  mixed.    Add  spices  and  celery 
seed.    Drain  vegetables  by  squeezing  out  handsful  and  drop  in  vin- 
egar.    Let  boil  a  few  minutes— not  too  long.     Stir  from  bottom  so 
all  will  be  cooked  alike.    Add  4  or  5  hot  peppers  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Charles  Walker. 


PICKLES,  MARMALADES  AND  RELISHES 


91 


SOUR  KRAUT  PICKLE. 
1  qt.  sour  kraut.  1  cup  brown  sugar. 

3  large  onions,   (sliced).  14  t-spoon  tumeric  powder. 

14  t-spoon  ground  mustard.  i/^  t-spoon  black  pepper  ground. 

Put  in  jar  and  cover  with  cold  strong  vinegar.  Canned  kraut 
is  fine  for  making  this  pickle.  Wash  and  squeeze  to  remove  all 
water ;  if  not  enough  salt,  add  necessary  amount  to  suit  taste. 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Davis. 


ARTICHOKE  PICKLES. 


pk.  artichokes. 

pts.  vinegar. 

large  onions. 

cups  sugar. 

tbls.  white  mustard  seed. 

Grind  artichokes  and  onions. 


1  tbls.  celery  seed. 

4  t-spoons  salt. 

1  t-spoon  tumeric. 

1  t-spoon  cayenne  pepper. 

Cook  all  together  until  done. 
Mrs.  Wm.  L.  Percy. 


SWEET  PEACH  PICKLES  NO.  1. 
5  lbs.  peaches,    (weighed  after     1  pt.  vinegar,   (to  every  4  qts. 

peeling).  fruit.) 

3  lbs.  sugar. 

Dissolve  vinegar  and  sugar.  Let  come  to  boil.  Stick  cloves 
into  peaches  and  drop  gradually  into  boiling  vinegar.  When  fruit 
is  tender  drop  into  sterilized  jars,  cover  with  hot  syrup  and  seal 
tight. 

Mrs.  Virlyn  B.  Moore. 

SWEET  PEACH  PICKLE  NO.  2. 
1  qt.  fruit.  1  tbls.  whole  cloves. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  tbls.  allspice  (whole). 

1  pt.  cider  vinegar.  1  oz.  stick  cinnamon. 

Cook  until  tender,  seal  in  glass  jars.  Pears,  plums  and  cher- 
ries can  be  pickled  in  same  way  but  must  be  pricked  with  a  needle. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Eaves. 

SWEET  PEACH  PICKLE  NO.  3. 

9  lbs.  fruit.  4  lbs.  sugar. 

1  qt.  apple  vinegar.  1  cup  water. 

Spice. 

Peel  firm  cling-stone  peaches  of  uniform  size.  Drop  into  cold 
water  to  prevent  discoloration.  Put  sugar  and  vinegar  into  large 
enamel  pan  over  moderate  fire;  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Re- 
move peaches  from  water  and  stick  two  whole  cloves  into  each 
peach.  When  all  are  prepared,  drop  into  the  vinegar,  which  should 
be  boiling.  Stir  gently;  cook  until  fruit  is  tender.  Be  careful  not 
to  cook  peaches  too  long,  or  they  will  burst.  Have  enough  pint  or 
quart  jars  ready  (that  is  hot  with  rubbers  adjusted)  with  from 
five  to  twenty  wholespice  in  each  jar.  Put  peaches  in  jar  carefully 
until  jar  is  full.     Fill  to  overflow  with  the  boiling  vinegar.     Seal 


92  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 

immediately.  Turn  jar  down.  If  any  liquid  runs  out  the  fruit  will 
not  keep.  Remove  top,  add  a  little  more  boiling  vinegar  and  «eal 
again.    Ready  for  use  from  two  to  four  weeks. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle. 
DAMSON  PLUM  SWEET  PICKLE. 

7  lbs,  fruit.  1  oz.  whole  cloves. 

4  lbs.  brown  sugar.  1  pt.  best  apple  vinegar. 

2  oz.  stick  cinnamon. 

Wash  plums  and  prick  with  large  needle.  Put  them  in  large 
stone  jar.  Boil  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  together,  pour  over 
plums.  Cover,  repeat  the  vinegar  and  pour  on  fruit  four  days  in 
succession — on  fifth  day  put  plums  into  glass  jars  and  fill  with 
boiling  hot  vinegar,  seal  immediately. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Willet. 

WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLE  NO.  1.  (sweet) 
1  medium  size  melon.  2  lemons. 

4  lbs.  sugar.  1  t-spoon  ginger. 

3  pts.  vinegar.  1  t-spoon  whole  cloves. 

Cut  rind  in  small  squares  and  peel.  Soak  over  night  in  weak 
salt  water  in  a  stone  jar.  Rinse  in  cold  water  and  let  rind  come  to 
a  boil  in  cold  water  containing  a  piece  of  rock  alum  the  size  of  a 
pigeon's  egg.  Drain  off  alum  water  and  discard.  Put  in  cold  water 
the  ginger  and  let  rind  come  to  a  boil.  Cook  until  rind  can  be 
pierced  by  a  straw.  Take  rind  from  ginger  water  and  drain.  Make 
a  syrup  of  sugar  and  vinegar.  Let  boil  and  add  lemons  sliced  thin, 
removing  seed  and  cloves.  Drain  rind  and  add  it  to  syrup.  Let 
cook  until  transparent.  Put  in  jars  hot.  Glass  top  jars  with  new 
rubbers  are  best  for  pickles. 

Mrs.  Joel  Hunter. 

WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLES  NO.  2. 

Salt  water.  3  blades  mace. 

Alum  water.  3  blades  ginger,  (broken). 

71/2  lbs  sugar.  1  t-spoon  whole  cloves. 

3  sticks  cinnamon.  1  t-spoon  whole  allspice. 

1  t-spoon  fine  mustard  seed.  6  lbs.  rind. 

3  pts.  apple  vinegar. 

Let  rinds  soak  in  salt  water  over  night,  in  fresh  water  all  next 
day,  then  in  alum  water ;  next  day  in  fresh  water  until  three  o'clock. 
Then  boil  in  clear  water  for  45  minutes.  Let  sugar,  vinegar  and 
spices  come  to  boil,  add  rind  and  boil  until  clear  and  rind  can  be 
pierced  with  straw. 

Put  in  glass  jar,  cover  well  with  syrup  and  seal. 

Mrs.  E.  Rivers. 

WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLE  NO.  3. 

8  lbs.  rind.  1  qt.  vinegar. 

4  lbs.  brown  sugar.  1  cup  whole  spices. 

Cut  rind  into  shape  desired,  boil  in  clear  water  until  tender. 


PICKLES,  MARMALADES  AND  RELISHES  93 


Add  sugar  and  spices  (tied  in  muslin  bag)  to  vinegar  and  bring  to 
boil.  Then  add  rind  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and 
set  aside  in  granite  or  earthenware  vessel.  For  four  successive 
mornings,  drain  off  syrup,  boil  and  pour  over  hot  rind.  Then  put 
in  jars  and  seal. 

Miss  Mary  Randolph  Kent. 

ARTICHOKE  RELISH. 

1  pk.  artichokes.  1  tbls.  cayenne  pepper. 

3  pts.  vinegar.  1  tbls.  tumeric. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  1/2  lb.  mustard  seed. 
2  tbls.  celery  seed.  Salt  to  taste. 

4  medium  size  onions. 

Thoroughly  wash  and  cleanse  the  artichokes  with  a  brush, 
(scraping  unnecessary) .  Grind  artichokes  and  onions  in  meat  chop- 
per, using  coarsest  part  of  chopper.  Mix  all  ingredients  and  cook 
thirty  minutes.  (One  cup  of  Olive  oil  may  be  added  last  if  desired) 
Seal  mixture  while  hot.    Glass  jars  and  tops  preferred. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Willet,  Director  Tallulah  Falls  Industrial  School. 

CELERY  RELISH. 
18  ripe  tomatoes.  2  t-spoons  salt. 

2  red  peppers.  1  t-spoon  each,  cloves,  allspice, 

21/4  cups  sugar.  cinnamon,  mustard,  and 

11/2  cups  vinegar.  celery  seed. 

Celery. 

Remove  roots  and  leaves  from  four  bunches  of  celery.  Chop 
vegetables,  mix,  and  put  in  preserving  kettle.  Add  sugar,  vinegar, 
salt  and  celery  seed.  Bring  gradually  to  a  boil  and  let  simmer  one 
and  one  half  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Fill  bottles  and  seal 
while  hot. 

Clementine  B.  Rawling. 

CORN  SALAD  RELISH. 
11/2  doz.  ears  corn.  1  head  cabbage. 

4  red  sweet  peppers.  I/2  cup  salt. 

1  lb,  mustard.  1  qt.  vinegar. 

11/2  lbs.  light  brown  sugar. 

Mix  all  together  and  cook  until  tender,  then  seal.  Excellent 
relish  for  any  cold  meats. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Stevens. 

PEPPER  HASH. 

1  doz.  green  bell  peppers.  1  qt.  vinegar. 

2  small  hot  peppers.  1  doz.  ripe  peppers. 
2  cups  sugar.  2  large  onions. 

2  tbls.  salt. 

Grind  and  mix ;  cover  with  boiling  water.  Let  stand  10  min- 
utes. Drain,  cover  again  with  boiling  water.  Let  come  to  boil. 
Remove  from  fire  and  let  stand  another  10  minutes.  Drain  thor- 
oughly, removing  as  much  water  as  possible.    Add  vinegar,  sugar, 


94  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


salt.  Place  on  fire  and  cook  like  sauce,  stirring  well.  This  can  be 
sealed  or  used  at  once  with  meats.  By  using  grated  cheese  and 
salad  dressing  with  it,  most  delicious  sandwiches  can  be  made. 

Mrs.  Homer  Dawson. 

PEPPER  RELISH  NO.  1. 
12  bell  peppers.  4  or  5  red  peppers. 

16  onions.  1  cup  sugar. 

8  apples.  1  qt.  vinegar. 

4  or  5  hot  peppers.  1  cup  salt. 

Remove  seeds  from  peppers;  chop  onions,  apples  and  peppers, 
and  grind  thru  food  chopper.  Mix  ingredients  together  with  the 
salt  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Let  stand  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain  through  a  colander.  Add  vinegar  and  sugar  to  mixture  and 
let  cook  till  thick.    Seal  while  hot. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Cox. 

PEPPER  RELISH  NO.  2. 
1  dozen  green  peppers.  1  tbls.  tumeric. 

1  dozen  red  peppers.  1  tbls.  celery  seed. 

1/2  tbls.  flour  or  corn  starch.  1  qt.  vinegar. 

1  medium  cabbage.  2  cups  sugar. 

1  dozen  onions.  Salt  to  taste. 

1  t-spoon  prepared  mustard. 

Boil  vinegar  first;  then  add  ground  vegetables.  Thicken  with 
cornstarch  or  flour,  after  adding  seasonings. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Hays, 
President  State  Federation  of  Women's  Clubs. 

SPICED  GREEN  TOMATOES. 
8  lbs.  green  tomatoes.  3  tbls.  mixed  pickle. 

8  cups  granulated  sugar.  1  pt.  cider  vinegar. 

Pare  thin  as  possible  so  seeds  will  remain  in  fruit.  Make  a 
syrup  of  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spice.  Drop  in  the  fruit  and  boil 
gently  until  clear.  Dip  out  whole  into  sterilized  jars.  Pour  over 
the  syrup  and  seal  as  usual. 

Mrs.  T.  F.  Abercrombie. 

PEPPER  RELISH  NO.  3. 
1  dozen  green  peppers.  1  dozen  onions. 

1  dozen  red  peppers.  1  qt.  vinegar. 

1  medium  size  cabbage.  1  t-spoon  mustard. 

1  tbls.  tumeric.  2  tbls.  flour  or  corn  starch. 

1  tbls.  celery  seed.  2  cups  sugar. 

Salt  to  taste. 

Let  vinegar  come  to  boil ;  then  add  all  ingredients.  Add  flour, 
which  has  been  rubbed  to  paste,  or  corn  starch.  Cook  a  few  minutes 
and  seal. 

Mrs.  Harry  Parker, 
Montezuma,  Ga. 


PICKLES,  MARMALADES  AND  RELISHES  95 


SOY  RELISH. 
4  qts.  green  tomatoes.  1  t-spoon  black  pepper. 

1  qt.  sugar.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  qt.  vinegar.  1  t-spoon  celery  seed. 

6  onions.  1  t-spoon  red  pepper. 

Mash  fine  and  boil  two  and  one  half  hours. 

Edith  Patterson. 

CHILI  SAUCE  NO.  1. 

1  can  or  qt.  ripe  tomatoes.  1  t-spoon  cloves. 

2  cups  vinegar.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  t-spoon  celery  seed  or, 

1  t-spoon  black  pepper.  1  bunch  celery,  (cut  fine). 

1  t-spoon  cinnamon.  1  small  onion,  (cut  fine) . 
Mix  all  ingredients  and  boil  until  onion  is  soft.     Seal  hot. 

Mrs.  George  S.  Obear,  Jr. 

CHILI  SAUCE  NO.  2. 

24  large  ripe  tomatoes.  4  cups  vinegar. 

6  large  onions.  2  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

4  pods  hot  red  pepper.  1  t-spoon  each  cloves  and  all- 

3  tbls.  salt.  spice. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  tomatoes,  let  stand  few  minutes  until 
skin  slips  off  easily.  Cut  up  fine,  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers. 
Cook  all  together,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Seal  hot. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Green. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

V'l  pk.  green  tomatoes.  1/2  Pt.  white  mustard  seed. 

2  white  hard  head  cabbages.  4  lbs.  sugar. 

15  white  onions.  1  tbls.  celery  seed. 

1  large  stalk  celery.  1  tbls.  ground  cloves. 

25  cucumbers.  1  tbls.  ground  allspice. 
11/2  gals,  best  vinegar. 

Cut  vegetables  into  small  pieces,  salt  down  over  night  in  stone 
crock.  Pour  off  brine  and  rinse  vegetables  in  cold  fresh  water. 
Pour  over  vegetables  vinegar  and  sugar ;  add  mustard,  celery  seed, 
and  spices.  Cook  until  tender.  Seal  hot  in  jars  with  glass  tops 
and  new  rubbers. 

Mrs.  Joel  Hunter. 

CHILI  SAUCE  NO  3. 
(Made  with  canned  tomatoes) 
1  No.  2  can  tomatoes.  14.  t-spoon  red  pepper. 

1/2  cup  vinegar.  1  tbls.  cinnamon. 

1/4  cup  sugar.  1  medium  onion  chopped  fine. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  1  green  pepper  chopped  fine. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  boil  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  Claude  B.  Davis. 


96  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


GREEN  TOMATO  SAUCE. 
1  qt.  green  tomatoes  (cut  fine).    Pepper,  salt,  allspice,  cloves  (to 
1  cup  brown  sugar.  taste). 

1  cup  vinegar.  1  small  onion   (shredded  fine). 

Boil  to  a  jam,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  scorching. 

Mrs.  Charles  Walker. 

PLUM  SAUCE  NO.  1. 
5  cups  plums,  (seeded).  1  lb.  nuts. 

5  cups  sugar.  1  lb.  raisins. 
3  oranges,  (grind  peel  and  all). 

Mix  and  let  stand  over  night.    Then  cook  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  Fred  Cornell. 

PLUM  SAUCE  NO.  2. 

8  qts.  plums.  1  t-spoon  ground  cloves. 

6  qts.  sugar.  1  t-spoon  mace. 

1  qt.  apple  vinegar.  1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

Cook  plums  until  soft  (about  fifteen  minutes).  Drain  off 
water,  add  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices.  Cook  one  hour,  stirring  con- 
stantly. 

Miss  Carroll  Campbell. 

SCUPPERNONG  BUTTER. 

1  qt.  scuppernongs.  3  cups  sugar. 

Cover  scuppernongs  with  water  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 
Rub  through  colander.  .Add  sugar  and  cook  twenty  minutes,  stir- 
ring frequently. 

Mrs.  S.  L.  Dabney. 

APPLE  BUTTER. 

16  lbs.  apples.  1  pt.  vinegar. 

6  lbs.  sugar. 

Stew  apples  and  strain  through  colander.  Add  vinegar  and 
sugar,  cook  slowly  three  hours.     When  nearly  done,  flavor  with 

cinnamon. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Cresse. 

PLUM  CHUTNEY. 

2  qts.  plums,  (damsons) .  V4,  t-spoon  each  of  ground  mace, 
1  cup  sugar  to  every  2  qts.  allspice,  and  cloves. 

1  t-spoon  ground  cinnamon.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

1  grated  lemon  rind.  1  pt.  vinegar  and  water  mixed. 

Cook  the  plums  in  the  liquid  until  they  may  be  pressed  through 
a  seive;  add  sugar  and  other  ingredients.  Simmer  until  thick  as 
catsup.    Keep  in  stone  crock,  or  sealed  in  fruit  iars. 

Mrs.  Howard  H.  McCall, 
State  Chairman  Georgia  State  Federation  Woman's  Clubs. 


PICKLES,  MARMALADES  AND  RELISHES  97 


INDIAN  CHUTNEY. 
1  qt.  malt  vinegar.  4  oz.  ground  ginger. 

1  lb.  sour  apples.  2  oz.  dry  mustard. 

14  lb.  onions.  4  oz.  salt. 

1  lb.  moist  sugar.  14  oz.  cayenne  pepper. 
14  lb.  raisins.                                   4  cloves  garlic. 

Peel,  core  and  slice  apples.  Peel  and  coarsely  chop  onions. 
Stone  and  quarter  raisins.  Chop  the  garlic  finely.  Cook  apples, 
onions  and  garlic  with  salt,  sugar  and  vinegar  until  quite  soft  and 
pass  thru  a  fine  hair  sieve.  Add  raisins,  mustard,  ginger  and 
Cayenne — mix  well  together — turn  into  a  jar,  let  stand  in  a  warm 
place  until  the  following  day.  Have  ready  some  perfectly  dry  wide 
necked  small  bottles  or  jars,  fill  them  with  the  Chutney  and  cover 
so  as  to  exclude  the  air.  This  Chutney  may  be  kept  for  a  year  or 
two. 

Mrs.  Rupert  E.  Hall. 

CHUTNEY  SAUCE. 
12  large  apples.  2  pods  sweet  green  pepper. 

8  medium  size  green  tomatoes.     1  cup  seeded  raisins. 
4  medium  size  onions.  1  qt  vinegar. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 
2  tbls.  mustard  seed.  1  t-spoon  cloves. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  1  t-spoon  allspice. 

Boil  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  five  minutes.  Add  other  ingre- 
dients chopped  fine.    Boil  one  hour.    Seal  hot. 

Mrs.  Tom  Germany. 

JOHN  MACK  TOMATO  CATSUP. 
(Very  Old  Recipe.) 
Tomatoes.  1  cup  brown  sugar. 

1  qt.  vinegar.  1  t-spoon  each,  cloves  cinnamon 

2  tbls.  salt.  and  mace. 

2  tbls.  mustard,   (ground).  2  lemons,  (sliced). 

2  tbls.  black  pepper.  2  large  white  onions. 

1  t-spoon  allspice,  (whole).  6  pods  green  pepper,  unbroken. 

Wash  and  mash  any  desired  quantity  of  tomatoes,  put  into 
preserving  kettle  and  boil  one  hour.  Strain  the  mass  through  a 
sifter,  then,  to  4  quarts  of  the  liquid  add  above  ingredients.  Boil 
down  to  half,  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  Strain  off  spices  through 
a  sifter,  bottle  in  brown  beer  bottles  if  possible.  Cork  with  new 
corks  that  have  been  soaked  in  hot  water  to  soften  them.  Put  seal- 
ing wax  over  top. 

Mrs.  Aurelia  Patterson. 

PRESERVED  PEACHES. 
Peaches.  Sugar. 

Water. 

Peaches  for  preserving  may  be  ripe  but  not  soft;  pare  them 
neatly,  cut  in  halves  and  take  out  the  stones ;  take  as  many  pounds 


98  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


of  white  sugar  as  of  fruit,  put  to  each  pound  of  sugar  a  teacupful 
of  water ;  stir  it  until  it  is  dissolved ;  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire ; 
when  it  is  boiling  put  in  the  peaches  and  let  them  boil  gently  until 
a  pure,  clear,  uniform  color;  turn  those  at  the  bottom  to  the  top 
carefully  with  a  skimmer.  When  they  are  clear,  take  each  half  up 
with  a  spoon,  spread  on  flat  dishes  to  cool.  When  all  are  done,  let 
syrup  boil  until  quite  thick,  put  peaches  in  jars,  pour  syrup  over 
them.    Some  kernels  added  will  improve  the  flavor. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Eaves. 

GINGER  PEARS. 

1/2  lb.  green  ginger.  1  pt.  water. 

8  lbs.  sugar.  Juice   and   shredded   peel  of   3 

8  lbs.  pears  weighed  after  par-  lemons  and  3  oranges, 

ing  and  coring. 
Scrape  and  chop  ginger.  Cook  in  pint  of  water  with  orange 
and  lemon  peel  until  tender.  Add  sugar,  orange  and  lemon  juice 
and  cook  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Put  in  pears,  chopped 
coarsely,  and  cook  very  slowly  for  two  hours.  Place  in  small  jars 
and  cover  when  cold. 

Miss  Mary  R.  Kent. 

MOCK  PINEAPPLE  PRESERVES. 
5  lbs.  watermelon  rinds.  5  lbs.  sugar. 

1  small  can  pineapple  (grated).     1  small  cup  salt. 

2  tbls.  alum. 

Pare  and  peel  watermelon  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes  if  desired. 
Cover  in  cold  water,  add  salt  and  let  stand  in  sun  24  hours. 
Wash  and  drain.  Cover  in  cold  water  and  let  stand  in  sun  24 
hours.  Drain  off  water,  cover  in  cold  water  and  boil  until  tender. 
Dissolve  sugar  in  boiling  water,  boil  twenty  minutes,  dip  out  rinds 
and  drop  in  sugar.  Cook  until  transparent.  Just  before  canning, 
add  pineapple. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Setzler. 

WATERMELON  RIND  PRESERVES. 
Soak  2  days  in  salt  water.  Ginger  tea. 

Soak  2  days  in  alum  water.  Use  as  many  lbs.  of  sugar  as 

Soak  2  days  in  fresh  water.  there  is  fruit. 

Select  thick  watermelon  rind.  Trim  off  carefully  all  green 
from  outside  and  allpink  from  inside.  Cut  in  squares  or  any  shape. 
Change  fresh  water  each  morning.  Boil  in  ginger  tea  until  tender. 
Make  syrup  of  sugar  (1  lb.  to  each  lb.  of  rind).  Let  syrup  come 
to  a  boil,  then  transfer  fruit  from  ginger  tea  to  syrup  and  let  boil 
until  transparent  or  pretty  clear  yellow.  Put  into  glass  jars.  If 
syrup  is  not  thick  enough  let  it  boil  longer,  then  cover  fruit  and 
seal.    If  soaked  according  to  directions,  preserves  will  be  firm  and 

brittle. 

Mrs.  E.  Rivers. 


PICKLES,  MARMALADES  AND  RELISHES  99 

CRABAPPLE  PRESERVES. 
Water.  Sugar. 

Crabapples. 

Wash  apples  and  leave  whole.  Use  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit.  Put  in  preserving  kettle  and  add  enough  water  to  pre- 
vent sticking.     Cook  until  transparent  and  syrup  thick.      Seal  hot. 

Mrs.  Lanham  Minson. 

FIG   PRESERVES. 
Figs.  Lemon. 

Sugar.  Water. 

Peel  figs  and  weigh,  using  ^/^  lb.  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit. 
Add  sliced  lemon  (use  one  lemon  to  2  qts.  of  fruit).  Cook  until 
tender  and  seal  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Withers. 

PRESERVED  GREEN  TOMATOES. 

1   pk.  tomatoes.  6  lemons. 

6  lbs.  sugar. 

Wash  tomatoes.  Slice  lemons  and  remove  seeds.  Add  sugai 
and  boil  until  transparent  and  the  syrup  thick.  Ginger  root  may 
be  added  if  liked. 

Mrs.  L.  P.  Bellamy. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM. 
To  each  pound  of  firm,  selected  berries  allow  %  lb.  of  sugar. 
Place  in  preserving  kettle,  stirring  gently.      Cook  slowly  for  1/2 
hour.     Put  in  jars  and  seal  hot.     Blackberries  may  be  used  instead 
of  strawberries. 

Mrs.  Frank  Mershon. 

SEEDLESS  BLACKBERRY  JAM. 

Wash  berries,  weigh  and  allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
berries.  Mash  berries,  pour  in  preserving  kettle  and  cook  until 
soft.  Mash  through  sieve,  adding  sugar  to  pulp.  Return  to  fire 
and  simmer  for  one-half  hour.     Seal. 

Mrs.  T.  H.  Stewart,  Jr. 

CARROT  MARMALADE. 
3  cups  carrots.  3  lemons. 

3  cups  apples.  4  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  cold  water. 

Method — Grate  carrots,  apples,  and  lemon  rind  together;  add 
lemon  juice.  Cook  all  together  with  sugar,  simmering  gently  till 
thick,  about  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Wing, 
Palmer,  Mass. 

GENUINE  ENGLISH  ORANGE  MARMALADE. 
1  grapefruit.  2  lemons. 

4  oranges. 


100  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


Pare  the  fruit  and  slice  skins  fine,  chop  the  fruit  and  mix  to- 
gether, adding  three  pints  of  water  to  each  pound  of  fruit  mixture. 
Put  seeds  in  pint  of  water  and  simmer  down  to  half.  Let  fruit 
stand  forty-eight  hours  in  water,  then  boil  until  tender.  Let  this 
stand  until  next  day  then  add  water  from  seeds  strained  and  add 
one  lb.  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  mixture,  boil  rapidly  until  it  jells. 

Mrs.  Chas.  W.  Bell 

GRAPE  CONSERVE. 
3  lbs.  grapes.  1  cup  English  walnut  meats. 

3  oranges.  6  cups  sugar. 

Skin  grapes  and  cook  pulp  until  seeds  separate.  Put  through 
colander,  add  skins  and  juice  of  oranges,  walnut  meats  and 
sugar.    .Cook  twenty  minutes  as  for  jelly. 

Mrs.  Edwin  Beaver. 

GRAPE,  PLUM,  OR  CHERRY  CONSERVE. 
6  pts.  drained  fruit.  4  oranges. 

8  cups  granulated  sugar.  1  cup  English  walnut  meats. 

2  lbs.  seeded  raisins. 

Grate  orange  peel  and  extract  juice.  Chop  raisins  and  nuts 
together ;  combine  all  ingredients,  and  cook  gently  for  forty  minutes. 
This  will  make  twelve  glasses. 

Mrs.  T.  F.  Abercrombie. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  CONSERVE. 
2  grapefruit.  2  oranges. 

2  lemons.  2  cups  nut  meats. 

Slice  off  skin  from  each  end  of  grapefruit.  This  prevents 
it  from  being  bitter.  Remove  seeds  and  put  through  coarse^  meat 
grinder.  Do  same  with  lemons  and  oranges,  except  dvm't  cut 
off  end.  Add  three  times  as  much  water  as  you  have  fruit  and 
let  stand  over  night.  Add  equal  quantity  of  sugar  and  boil  until 
it  jells.     This  makes  about  thirty  glasses  of  conserve. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Zachry. 

APPLE  CONSERVE. 

8  cups    of  unsweetened    apple     8  scant  tbls.  syrup. 

sauce.  2  t-spoons  cloves. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  1  tbls.  cinnamon. 

2  oranges  sliced  thin.  1  lb.  English  walnut  meats. 

2  lemons  sliced  thin.  Pinch  of  salt. 

1  lb  raisins. 

Boil  above  ingredients   (except  nuts)   15  mmutes.      Add  nuts 

last  and  seal.  ^  ^    ^ 

Mrs.  W.  L.  Percy. 

CRAB  APPLE  JELLY. 
Crab  apples.  Sugar. 

Water.  Lemons. 


PICKLES,  MARMALADES  AND  RELISHES  101 


Wash  and  wipe  crab-apple,  quarter  but  do  not  core,  put  in 
kettle,  and  cover  with  cold  water;  cook  until  soft.  Strain  twice 
through  a  jelly  bag.  Put  juice  on  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice,  with  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Boil  until  it  jells. 

(Miss)  Annie  J.  H«ad. 

PARADISE  JELLY. 

6  apples.  1  pt.  cranberries. 

6  quinces.  Water.  ^ 

After  washing  the  fruit,  core  the  apples  and  quinces  but  do 
not  peel.  Put  all  over  the  fire  in  water  enough  to  cover  and  cook 
till  soft.  Strain  off  the  juice  and  proceed  as  in  currant  jelly. 
A  pint  of  juice  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  The  pulp  remaining  may  have 
sugar  added  to  it  and  then  be  canned  for  tapioca  pudding,  or  for 
marmalade. 

Mrs.  D.  L  Carson. 

GOOSEBERRY  JELLY. 
3  qts.  green  gooseberries.  Sugar. 

3  qts.  water. 

Wash  gooseberries,  put  in  kettle  with  water  and  cook  over 
slow  fire  until  berries  are  soft  enough  to  mash  easily,  strain  and 
press  through  jelly  bag.  To  every  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound 
sugar.  Cook  rapidly  for  ten  minutes,  skimming  well  while  boiling. 
Turn  into  glasses  and  seal  when  cold. 

Mrs.  L.  P.  Bellamy. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY.  ^ 

1  qt.  cranberries.  1  pt.  sugar. 

1  pt.  cold  water. 

Cook  berries  in  water  until  soft,  strain  through  sieve.  Then 
add  sugar  and  boil  five  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Averill. 

GRAPE  JELLY. 
Grapes.  Water. 

Sugar. 

Stem  ripe  grapes  and  put  into  a  preserving  kettle,  let  come  to 
boil,  mash  and  strain.  Put  juice  on  to  boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
then  add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice. 
Skin  while  boiling,  let  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Put  in  glasses  and 
cover.  Green  grape  jelly  may  be  made  the  same  way,  but  will  re- 
quire a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Withers. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 
Quinces.  Sugar. 

Water. 

Cut  ripe  quinces  in  slices,  put  in  a  kettle  and  cover  with  cold 
water ;  boil  until  soft,  strain,  and  put  in  preserving  kettle.   To  every 


102  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK  BOOK 

pint  of  juice  add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.      Boil  until 
it  jells. 

(Miss)  Annie  J.  Head. 

PINEAPPLE  JELLY. 

Apples.  Sugar. 

Pineapple.  Water. 

Take  tart  apples,  cut  up  without  peeling  and  drop  into  watei 
to  prevent  them  turning  dark.  Add  peeling  and  cores  of  one  oi 
two  pineapples;  boil  all  (covered  with  water)  until  apples  are  quite 
tender,  strain  juice  through  a  jelly  bag,  add  measure  for  measure 
of  juice  and  white  sugar.  Boil  quickly  for  ten  minutes  in  shallow 
vessel.    Put  in  glasses  while  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Minson. 


CAKES,  FILLINGS,  ICINGS  AND  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Henry  A.  Manning,  Chairman. 

CAKES. 

There  are  two  classes  of  cake — the  sponge  and  the  butter  cake. 
The  first  is  less  fattening  and  best  for  children.  All  our  cakes  are 
variations  made  on  the  true  sponge  or  on  the  cup  cake  recipes.  Cakes 
have  much  food  value,  which  should  be  remembered  in  planning  a 
meal. 

M.  P.  Means. 


SCRIPTURE  CAKE 

11/2  cups   of   Judge,    5:25   last     6  cups  Jeremiah,  17 :  11 

clause. 
2  cups  Jeremiah,  6  :20. 
2  cups  Nehum,  3:12. 
1  cup  Numbers,  17  :8. 
41/2  cups    I    Kings,    4:22,   first 

clause. 


A  pinch  of  Leviticus,  2 :13. 
2  tbls.  I  Samuel,  14:25,  last. 
II  Chronicles,    9:9.    season    to 

taste. 
1/2  cup  Judges,  4  :19,  last  clause. 
2  tbls.  Amos,  4:5,  first  clause. 


Method — Follow  Solomon's  prescription  fov  making  a  good 
boy,  Proverbs  23:14,  and  you  will  have  a  good  cake. 

Emily  E.  Rice. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

12  egg  whites.  10  oz.  flour. 

Generous  pinch  of  salt.  4  oz.  granulated  sugar. 

2  level  t-spoons  cream  of  tartar.     1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Have  everything  ready  before  breaking  the  eggs,  and  proceed 
rapidly.  Have  eggs  thoroughly  chilled  and  avoid  having  even  small 
particles  of  the  yolk  of  the  egg  in  the  whites.  Weigh  sugar  and 
flour,  sifting  each  on  a  separate  piece  of  paper.  Beat  eggs,  after 
adding  salt,  till  large  bubbles  disappear ;  sift  in  cream  of  tartar  un- 
til eggs  are  dry  and  stiff.  (If  beaten  too  long  the  cake  will  be  dry 
and  tough) .    Fold  in  (not  beat  in)  the  sugar  and  then  the  flour  by 


104  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 

sifting  a  little  in  at  a  time.  Light  the  oven  and  then  add  vanilla. 
Put  in  an  ungreased  aluminum  pan  and  place  in  oven,  about  three 
or  four  inches  from  the  floor  of  the  oven.  Reduce  gas  until  it 
looks  like  rows  of  beads  and  let  it  stay  that  way  for  thirty  minutes. 
Then  increase  heat  until  the  gas  is  nearly  full.  In  15  minutes  more, 
the  cake  should  be  a  pretty  brown  all  over.  As  gas  pressure  and 
sizes  of  ovens  vary,  each  person  must  learn  by  experience  just  when 
the  cake  is  done,  but  45  minutes  is  the  average  time.  As  soon  as 
taken  out  of  the  oven  the  cake  should  be  turned  up  side  down  and 
left  till  thoroughly  cold.  By  running  a  knift  around  the  sides  and 
then  knocking  the  sides  of  the  pan  on  the  edge  of  the  kitchen  table, 
the  cake  can  be  gotten  out  of  the  pan  in  perfect  condition.  Dust 
powdered  sugar  over  the  top  or  ice  the  cake  according  to  taste.  By 
using  a  carving  knife  and  dampening  it  often,  the  slices  may  be  kept 
even  and  light.  If  you  press  hard  on  the  knife,  you  will  have  a 
ragged  slice. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Turman 
ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE. 

12  egg  whites.  II/2  cup  sugar. 

1/4  t-spoon  salt.  1  scant  cup  flour. 

1  t-spoon  cream  of  tartar.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Place  the  whites  in  deep  bowl,  sprinkle  in  the  salt  and  beal 
with  dover  egg  beater  until  entirely  stiff.  Stir  in  cream  of  tartar 
This  helps  the  whites  to  remain  stiff.  Next,  thordughly  beat  in 
sugar  with  egg  beater  or  open  spoon.  Measure  a  scant  cup  of  flour, 
sift  three  times  and  remeasure,  filling  the  cup  by  gently  laying  in 
the  flour  by  spoonfuls.  This  is  to  insure  having  a  scant  and  light 
cup  of  flour.  Then  fold  the  flour  into  the  cake  mixture,  about  a 
third  at  a  time.  The  flour  should  not  be  beaten  in.  Add  vanilla 
and  pour  mixture  into  an  ungreased  tin  with  a  funnel  center.  The 
oven  should  be  quite  warm,  but  not  hot,  when  cake  is  put  in.  Let 
heat  be  moderate  throughout  the  baking,  which  may  be  from  forty 
to  sixty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Alan  Griffith  Stanford. 

DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar.  3  eggs. 

3  cups  sifted  flour.  %  cup  grated  chocolate. 
1/2  cup  Snowdrift.  1  t-spoon  soda. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  hot  water.  lA  t-spoon  salt. 

Add  sugar  to  Snowdrift,  cream  well,  put  in  egg  yolks,  then 
chocolate  dissolved  in  hot  water,  beat  well.  Dissolve  soda  in  milk 
add  to  mixture,  gradually  sift  in  2  cups  of  flour,  beating  well.  Al- 
ternate last  cup  of  flour  and  baking  powder  with  well  beaten  egg 
whites.  Add  salt  and  favorite  flavoring,  bake  in  moderate  oven,  put 
together  and  ice  with  caramel. 

CARAMEL  FILLING. 

2  cups  of  brown  sugar.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 
2  cups  white  sugar.                        2  tbls.  butter. 
11/2  cups  milk.                                   Pinch  of  salt. 


CAKES,  COOKIES   AND  ICINGS  105 


Cook  sugar,  milk  and  salt  together,  (stirring  constantly)  to 
soft  ball  degree  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Just  before  removing 
sauce  pan  from  fire  add  vanilla  and  butter,  beat  until  cool  enough 
to  spread.  If  mixture  should  happen  to  cook  too  long  add  a  few 
drops  of  milk  and  beat  until  right  consistency. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle, 
Cookbook  Chairman. 

OLD  FASHIONED  POUND  CAKE. 
21/2  cups  sugar.  4  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  lb.  butter.  10  eggs. 

14  t-spoon  baking  powder.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  thoroughly.  Do  not  break 
yolks,  but  add  1  at  the  time  alternately  with  flour  (sifted  several 
times  with  baking  powder)  until  well  mixed.  Add  well  beaten 
whites  last.     Bake  in  slow  oven  for  about  2  hours. 

Mrs.  F.  R.  Lane. 

POUND  CAKE. 
1  cup  butter.  2  scant  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  level  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

5  eggs.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Cream  butter  well,  add  sugar  slowly,  beating  thoroughly.  Add 
whole  egg,  alternately  with  flour  which  has  been  sifted  with  baking 
powder;  add  flavoring.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  1  hour. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Mason. 

CREAM  LAYER  CAKE. 
1  cup  granulated  sugar.  2  t-spoon   Royal   baking  pow- 

1  cup  butter.  der. 

6  large  or  seven  small  eggs.  Vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring  to 

2  l^  cups  sifted  flour.  taste. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  well  beaten  yolks  of 
eggs,  stir  well,  sift  flour  with  baking  powder  three  times,  then 
add  to  the  mixture,  and  stir  in  beaten  whites  gently.  Flavor 
and  pour  into  layer  tins.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

FILLING. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  1/2  cup  evaporated  milk. 
1/4  cup  butter. 

Dissolve  all  together  and  cook  over  a  moderate  fire  until  it 
sheets  from  the  spoon.  Spread  between  layers  and  on  top  of  the 
cake. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Gentry. 

PINEAPPLE  CAKE. 
%  cup  butter.  5  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  level    t-spoon    Royal 
1  cup  milk.  baking  powder. 

3  cups  sifted  flour.  i/^  t-spoon  vanilla. 


106  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  until  very  light,  add  eggs  2 
at  a  time,  beating  5  minutes  between  each  addition.  Add  alter- 
nately milk  and  flour,  adding  baking  powder  to  the  last  flour.  Then 
add  vanilla.  Bake  in  layer  tins  in  moderately  hot  oven.  When 
cooled  put  the  layers  together  with  boiled  icing.  On  top  of  each 
layer  of  icing  put  a  layer  of  pineapple.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar 
over  the  pineapple. 

Mrs.  Simon  Weill. 
LANE  CAKE. 
(Original.) 
8  egg  whites.  2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  milk.  3  t-spoons  baking  powder, 

31/4  cups  sifted  flour.  1  tbls.  vanilla. 

1  cup  butter. 

Add  baking  powder  to  flour  and  sift  three  times.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  gradually  until  very  light.  Add  alternately  milk 
and  flour.  Lastly,  fold  in  well  beaten  whites  with  flavoring.  Pour 
in  tube  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  loaf  cake,  or  bake  in 
layers.  |  H 

FILLING. 
7  egg  yolks.  1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  seeded  raisins.  1/2  cup  butter. 

1  wine  glass  wine.  1  cup  English  walnut  meats. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  well  beaten  egg  yolks.  Cook  in 
double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  quite  thick.  Remove  from 
fire  and  while  hot  add  raisins  and  walnuts  chopped.  Lastly,  add 
wine  and  vanilla. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Lane, 
Roanoke,  Ala. 

DELICIOUS  CAKE. 
3  cups  sifted  flour.  3  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  butter. 

1  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Whites  8  eggs.  2  squares  chocolate. 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  vanilla,  alter- 
nating with  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Fold  in  egg  whites,  adding  last 
the  melted  chocolate.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

FILLING. 

1  pt.  milk.  1  tbls.  butter. 

2  eggs.  Vi  cup  corn  starch. 
1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  nut  meats. 
Flavor  as  desired. 

Mix  corn  starch  and  sugar  with  a  little  cold  milk,  add  slightly 
beaten  eggs.  Heat  rest  of  milk  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick,  adding  butter  while  hot.  When  cool  add 
flavoring  and  nuts,  spread  on  layers. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Singleton. 


CAKES,  COOKIES   AND   ICINGS  107 


FUDGE  CAKE. 

1/2  cup  melted  butter.  2  eggs  well  beaten. 

3  squares   unsweetened   choco-     1/2  cup  flour, 
late  or  6  tbls.  cocoa.  1  tbls  vanilla. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  nut  meats. 

Beat  together  in  above  order  and  bake  in  biscuit  pans  three- 
fourths  inch  thick. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Snelgrove. 

MOCHA  CAKE. 

2  eggs.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 
1  cup  sugar.                                      14  cup  hot  milk. 
1  cup  sifted  flour.                            1  t-spoon  butter. 
11/4  t-spoons     baking     powder 

(Royal). 
Beat  eggs  very  lightly.  Add  sugar  beaten  in  very  light  anc^ 
flour  in  which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Melt  butter  intc 
hot  milk,  adding  vanilla.  Pour  this  into  the  first  mixture  and  bea1 
until  thoroughly  mixed.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  layer  tins 
and  bake  in  quick  oven  about  15  minutes.     This  makes  two  layers. 

MOCHA  FILLING. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar.  2  tbls.  coffee. 

1/2  scant  cup  butter.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

2  t-spoon  cocoa. 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  cocoa,  cold  boiled  coffee 
and  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly,  spread  between  cake  layers  and  ice 
top. 

Mrs.  W.  Frank  Daub. 
DELIGHTFUL  SPONGE  CAKE.  NO  1. 
1  cup  sugar.  6  eggs. 

1  cup  sifted  flour.  1  lemon  (juice). 
Pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  yolks  with  dover  egg  beater  until  very  light,  add  sugar 
which  has  been  sifted  5  times ;  add  lemon  juice  then  flour  sifted 
5  times.  Sprinkle  salt  in  egg  whites  and  beat  very  stiff,  fold  into  the 
cake  mixture.  Pour  in  well  greased  cake  pan,  place  in  oven  hot 
enough  to  brown  paper  in  5  minutes.  Cook  over  one  burner  15 
minutes,  then  turn  on  both  lights  30  minutes.  Turn  out  cake  on 
face  until  cool.     For  a  delicious  dessert,  bake  in  layers. 

FILLING. 

2  cups  strawberries.  1/2  glass  jelly. 

1  egg  white.  Whipped  cream. 

Beat  jelly  gradually  into  unbeaten  egg  white  until  thick  and 
foamy  (about  5  minutes).  Place  strawberries  cut  in  pieces  be- 
tween layers  and  on  top  of  cake ;  pouring  jelly  mixture  over  berries. 
Top  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  B.  M.  Boykin, 
Pres.  Atlanta  Woman's  Club. 


108  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


VELVET  SPONGE  CAKE  NO  2. 

2  cups  sugar.  21/2  cups  sifted  flour. 

5  eggs.  2  t-spoons  Royal  baking  pow- 

1  cup  boiling  water.  der. 

Flavoring. 
Add  sugar  gradually  to  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks  and  beat  for 
about  fifteen  minutes.      Add  flour  alternately  with  well  beaten 
egg  whites.      Stir  in  boiling  water  in  which  baking  powder  has 
been  sifted.     Add  flavoring.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Ryley, 
Fort  Valley,  Ga. 
SPONGE  CAKE  NO  3. 
4  eggs.  Pinch  salt. 

3  tbls.  cold  water.  1  cup  sugar. 

2  t-spoons  Royal  baking  pow-    II/2  cups  sifted  flour. 

der.  1  t-spoon  lemon  extract. 

Add  sugar  gradually  to  well  beaten  yolks.     Stir  in  water,  salt 

and  extract.      Add  well  beaten  whites  alternately  with  the  flour; 

stirring  as  little  as  possible  to  mix.     If  baked  in  loaf,  oven  should  be 

moderate ;  if  in  layers,  oven  should  be  hot.     Grease  and  flour  pan. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Ryan. 
WHITE  LAYER  CAKE. 
12  whites  of  eggs.  4  level  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

1/2  cup  cream.  1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

14  lb.  butter.  3  cups  sugar. 

Cream  butter  with  sugar,  add  cream.  Stir  in  flour  mixed  with 
baking  powder.  Whites  beaten  thoroughly  added  last.  Bake  in 
layers  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  put  together  with  any  filling  de- 
sired. 

Mrs.  Virlyn  B.  Moore. 

DELICIOUS  WHITE  CAKE. 

4  cups  unsifted  flour.  2  cups  sugar. 

4  t-spoons  Royal  baking  powder.  1  1/3  cups  milk. 

1  1/3  t-spoons  salt.  1  1/3  t-spoons  either  orange  or 

2/3  cup  Crisco.  lemon  flavoring. 

4  egg  whites. 

Add  Crisco  to  sugar  gradually  and  cream  well  together.  Sift 
dry  ingredients  together  twice,  add  alternately  with  milk,  then 
flavoring;  last  fold  in  well  beaten  egg  whites.  This  makes  4  de- 
licious layers.     Put  together  with  any  desired  filling. 

Emory  Circle. 

RIBBON  CAKE. 


1  cup  milk. 

1/2  t-spoon  soda. 

1  cup  butter. 

1  t-spoon  mace  and  cinnamon. 

4  eggs. 

1  t-spoon  brandy  or  wine. 

3%  cups  sifted  flour. 

1/2  cup  seeded  raisins,  chopped 

1  t-spoon  cream  of  tartar. 

14  lb.  citron,  sliced. 

2  cups  sugar. 

2  t-spoon  molasses. 

CAKES,  COOKIES  AND   ICINGS  109 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together.  Add  well  beaten 
egg  yolks,  then  flour  sifted  twice  with  cream  of  tartar  and  soda, 
alternately  with  milk.  Then  fold  in  well  beaten  whites.  Have 
ready  three  oblong  shallow  tins  (greased)  of  equal  size.  Divide 
cake  batter  in  three  equal  parts,  cook  two  as  plain  cake.  Add  in- 
gredients of  second  column  to  third  part  of  batter,  (Dredge  fruit 
with  little  flour  before  mixing) .  Bake.  Put  fruit  layer  between 
two  plain  ones,  with  either  jelly  or  white  icing  as  filling.  Press 
lightly  together,  trim  edges  evenly  and  cover  with  white  icing. 
Mrs.  Allen  D.  Candler, — Wife  of  former  Governor  of  Georgia. 

WHITE  CAKE  WITH  CARAMEL  FILLING. 
6  egg  whites.  2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  butter  (scant).  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  2  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 

1  t-s-poon  vanilla.  der. 

Cream  butter  and  half  sugar  together  thoroughly.  Add  balance 
of  sugar  to  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Beat  well.  Add  flour  sifted 
three  times  with  baking  powder  alternately  with  milk.  Fold  in 
whites  last.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

CARAMEL  FILLING. 
3  cups  sugar.  1  cup  butter. 

3  t-spoons  flour  (scant). 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  flour  together  well.  Add  just  enough 
milk  to  moisten  thoroughly.  Cook  until  creamy,  then  beat  until 
firm  enough  to  spread. 

Mrs.  Oscar  McKenzie, 

Montezuma,  Ga. 

MARBLE   CAKE. 

%  cup  butter.  %  t-spoon  vanilla. 

1%  cups  sugar.  6  egg  whites. 

3  cups  sifted  flour.  1/2  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

%  cup  milk.  1/^  t-spoon  cloves  and  allspice. 

3  level  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

Measure  flour,  add  baking  powder  and  sift  three  times.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  together  until  light;  to  this  add  flour  and  milk 
gradually  with  egg  whites  beaten  stiff.  For  the  marble — take 
one  cup  of  batter,  beat  in  one  egg  yolk,  and  spices.  Mix  in  dark 
batter  with  white  in  filling  pan.     Bake  as  a  loaf  cake. 

ICING. 
1  cup  sugar.  1  t-spoon  vinegar. 

3  tbls.  water.  1  egg  white. 

Boil  until  sugar  threads.  Pour  slowly  over  white  of  one  egg 
beaten  stiff.    Flavor  with  14  t-spoonful  of  almond  extract. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Jenkins. 


110  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK  BOOK 


JELLY  ROLL. 
4  eggs.  1  cup  sifted  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 
Rind  of  lemon.                                  Pinch  of  salt. 

2  tbls.  cold  water.  Jelly. 

Cream  eggs  and  sugar ;  add  other  ingredients  in  order.  When 
cold,  place  cake  on  a  towel,  spread  jelly  and  carefully  roll  up  in 
the  towel.  Rind  of  lemon  can  either  be  grated  or  run  through 
meat  chopper. 

Mrs.  D.  M.  Therrell. 

ORANGE   CAKE. 

8  egg  yolks.  44  cup  butter  or  good  shorten- 

3  cups  sifted  flour.  ing. 

1  cup  milk.  1  tbls.  corn  starch. 

1  tbls.  orange  juice.  3  tbls.  baking  powder. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  thoroughly  mixed,  add  eggs 
beaten  until  very  light.  Sift  baking  powder,  corn  starch,  and 
flour  together  twice.  Add  alternately  with  milk  to  mixture,  add 
orange  juice.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

ORANGE  FILLING. 

4  egg  yolks  beaten  light.  1  cup  water. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  grated  orange  peel. 
Cook  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup  drops  from  spoon.    Then 

into  this  beat  the  eggs  gradually,  allowing  syrup  to  continue  cook- 
ing, as  the  beating  is  in  progress.  Add  grated  peel  just  before 
the  filling  is  cool. 

Mrs.  Tull  C.  Waters. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 
(A  Favorite  with  Men). 

3  cups  sifted  flour.  1  cup  milk. 

11/2  cups  sugar.  2  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 

34 "cup  butter.  der. 

3  eggs. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  yolks  of  eggs ;  beat  thoroughly. 
Add  three-fourths  of  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Sift  baking  powder 
and  flour  several  times  together.  Begin  adding  flour  so  sifted,  a 
handful  at  a  time.  Stir  rapidly.  Add  remainder  of  milk  and 
flour  as  needed  for  batter  of  good  consistency;  add  whites  last, 
(beaten  until  plate  can  be  turned  up-side-down  without  slipping 
off  beaten  whites).  Bake  quickly  in  layer-cake  pans.  In  turning 
out  layers,  whisk  layers  over  quickly  as  soon  as  top  touches  paper, 
as  the  bottom  will  not  stick,  but  top  of  cakes  will. 

FILLING. 

1  lemon.  1  tbls.  butter. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  tbls.  corn  starch. 

1  Qgg,  1  cup  boiling  water. 


CAKES,  COOKIES  AND   ICINGS  111 


Put  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon  in  double  boiler.  Pour  in 
boiling  water ;  combine  corn  starch  and  sugar  in  mixing  bowl,  beat 
in  egg,  add  this  to  mixture  in  double  boiler.  Cook  until  clear  and 
somewhat  thick,  add  butter  just  before  removing  from  fire.  Spread 
between  layers  and  do  not  serve  for  twenty-four  hours. 

Mrs.  D.F.  Stevenson. 
RAISIN  CAKE. 
4  eggs.  1  grated  cocoanut. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  grated  nutmeg. 

1  cup  butter.  1  grated  orange  peel. 

1  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  soda. 

3  cups  sifted  flour.  2  t-spoons  cream  of  tartar. 
1  lb.  seeded  raisins. 

Beat  eggs  separately,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  beat 
all  together.     Mix  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  with  flour,  sift  into 
batter,  add  raisins  floured,  cocoanut,  nutmeg  and  orange  peel. 
Bake  50  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Selzter, 
South  Carolina. 
WALNUT  SHORT  CAKE. 
11/2  cups  of  sugar.  2  t-spoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  of  cracker  crumbs.  4  dozen  English  walnut  meats 

9  eggs  beaten  separately.  chopped  fine. 

1  t-spoon    Royal    baking    pow- 

der. 
Beat  yolks  and  sugar,  add  crumbs  and  nuts,  then  baking  powder 
and  beaten  whites.     Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  and  top  with 
raspberry  jam.      Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Porter  King. 
PECAN  WHITE  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  butter. 

3  14  cups  sifted  flour.  8  egg  whites. 

1/2  cup  milk.  2  t-spoons  Royal  baking  pow- 

1  cup  chopped  pecans.  der. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  gradually  until  very  light. 
Have  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  and  add  alternately  with  flour.  Last, 
add  milk  into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  dissolved.  Stir  in 
nuts  and  put  immediately  into  stove.  Bake  slowly  two  hours.  Ice 
with  plain  white  icing. 

Mrs.  Moreland  Zellars, 
Grantville,  Georgia. 
CHOCOLATE  NOUGAT  CAKE. 
1/2  cup  butter.  21/2  t-spoons  Royal  baking  pow- 

1  cup  sugar.  der. 

2  eggs.  l^  t-spoon  salt. 

1/2  cup  milk.  2  squares  chocolate. 

1-1/3  cups  flour.  1/2  cup  raisins. 

1/2  cup  chopped  walnut  meats. 


112  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK  BOOK 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  milk,  beaten  eggs,  and 
melted  chocolate.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and 
add  to  mixture.  Lastly  add  nuts  and  raisins  which  have  been 
dredged  in  flour.  Bake  in  greased  pan  in  moderate  oven  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Wing, 
Palmer,  Mass. 

UNCOOKED  FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  1. 
(very  special). 
2  lbs.  seedless  raisins.  1  t-spoon  ground  cloves. 

2  lbs.  currants.  1  t-spoon  allspice. 

1/4  or  1/2  lb.  citron  as  preferred.  1  t-spoon  grated  nutmeg. 
Grind  fruit  through  meat  chopper  as  fine  as  possible.  Cut 
the  citron  as  for  cooked  fruit  cake.  Mix  well,  and  press  into  a 
pan  or  vessel  with  sides  straight,  so  the  cake  can  be  cut  in  even 
slices.  Press  for  a  day  and  night,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 
Though  the  blend  is  more  perfect  if  left  longer.  A  few  almonds  or 
other  nuts  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  Homer  Dawson. 

UNCOOKED  FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  2. 
1  lb.  raisins.  1  lb.  currants. 

1  lb.  dates.  2  lbs.  nuts,  (shelled). 

1  lb.  figs.  English  walnuts  preferred. 
Chop  nuts.      Run  the  remaining  ingredients  through  a  food 

chopper.  Knead  well  and  moisten  with  juice  of  an  orange,  if  nec- 
essary. Shape  as  desired.  Wrap  in  parchment  paper  until  ready 
to  serve. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Fischer. 

DATE  CAKE. 
4  eggs.  1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  dates.  2  cups  pecan  meats. 
2  t-spoons  baking  powder.  1  cup  sifted  flour. 

1  tbls.  vanilla. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Roll  dates  in  about  3  tbls. 
of  the  flour;  add  these  and  rest  of  flour  with  baking  powder  tc 
mixture.  Add  pecans  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  moderate  oven,  using 
shallow  pan. 

Mrs.  E.  K.  Ayer, 

ENGLISH  WALNUT  AND  RAISIN  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  4  eggs. 

2  lbs.  seeded  raisins.  1  lb.  English  walnut  (meats). 

1  t-spoon  Royal  baking  powder,     1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

114  cups  milk. 

Cut  raisins  in  halves  and  roll  walnut  meats  fine  on  biscuit 
board  with  rolling  pin.  To  sugar  and  butter  creamed  thoroughly 
together,  add  yolks  of  well  beaten  eggs.      Dredge  raisins  and  wal- 


CAKES,  COOKIES  AND   ICINGS  113 


nuts  in  the  flour,  add  to  above  mixture  with  enough  milk  to  moisten. 
Dissolve  baking  powder  in  balance  of  milk,  add  vanilla  and  stii 
well  into  mixture.  Last  add  egg  whites  beaten  very  stiff.  Pour 
in  well  greased  tube  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  1  hour. 

Mrs.  Alonzo  Richardson. 
State  Chair,  and  Vice-Pres.,  Atlanta  Woman's  Club. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  1. 


3  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  lb.  almonds  meats. 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  lb.  English  walnut  meats. 

1  cup  butter. 

1  lb.  citron. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

2  t-spoons  lemon  extract. 

2  tbls.  rose  water. 

1  lb.  figs. 

1/2  lb  crystallized  cherries. 

8  egg  whites. 

1/2  lb.  crystallized  pineapple 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  milk,  then  two  cups  flour,  using 
one  cup  flour  to  dredge  fruit,  then  the  egg  whites  beaten  stiff — next 
cocoanut  and  flavoring — last  the  fruit  dredged  in  the  flour.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  3  hours. 

Mrs.  D.  J.  Jones. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE  NO  2. 
12  egg  whites.  2  lbs.  almonds  (in  shell). 

5  cups  flour.  2  lbs.  English  walnuts  in  shell. 

3  cups  sugar.  1/2  lb.  candied  citron. 
1  cup  butter.  1  grated  cocoanut. 

1  cup  milk.  3  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 

der. 
Cream  butter  with  half  the  flour,  add  whites  well  beaten  into 
which  the  sugar  has  been  folded  and  slightly  stirred.  Then  add 
remainder  of  flour  in  which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted  and 
milk,  adding  and  beating  alternately  a  little  of  the  flour  and  then  a 
little  milk.  Stir  in  cocoanut,  nuts  (chopped)  and  shredded  citron. 
Leaving  out  fruits  from  above  mixture  makes  a  beautiful  white 
cake  when  baked  in  a  large  tube  pan  and  heavily  iced,  or  makes 
lovely  small  cakes  for  parties  if  baked  in  large  square  pan,  iced 
thickly  on  top,  cut  into  squares  before  icing  is  set  hard,  a  half  of 
English  walnut,  pecan  or  crystallized  rose  pressed  lightly  into  top 
of  each  square. 

Mrs.  Robert  Andoe. 

BIRTHDAY  CAKE. 

1  cup  (I/2  lb.)  butter.  1  t-spoon  grated  nutmeg. 

2  cups  (1  lb.)  sugar.  1  t-spoon    Royal    baking    pow- 

4  eggs.  der. 

1  cup  (I/2  pt.)  milk.  4  cups  flour. 

1  cup  (60Z.)  Sultana  raisins.         1  wine   glass    brandy   or   fruit 

1/^  cup  currants.  juice. 

14  t-spoon  salt.  1/2  cup"  shredded  citron. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.    Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 


114  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 

and  beat  well.  Add  milk,  fruit  and  brandy,  also  flour  sifted  with 
baking  powder,  salt  and  nutmeg.  Pour  into  a  well  greased  papered 
cake  tin.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  two  hours.  Turn  out,  and  when 
cool  cover  with  white  frosting.  If  desired,  this  cake  may  be  dec- 
orated with  tiny  shamrocks  and  candles.  This  is  sufficient  for 
14  to  16  persons. 

Mrs.  Henry  A.  Manning. 

JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  level  tbls.  baking  powder. 

3  cups  flour.  1  t-spoon  each  cloves  and  spice 

4  eggs.  1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla.  1/2  lb.  seeded  raisins. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  well  beaten  egg  yolks 
Then  add  gradually  the  cup  of  milk.  Put  baking  powder  in  flour, 
sift  and  add  to  mixture,  alternating  with  well  beaten  egg  whites. 
Divide  this  batter  into  3  parts.  Into  one,  put  cloves,  cinnamon, 
spice  and  raisins  floured.     Cook  in  layers. 

FILLING. 

2  lemons.  1  cup  water. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  tbls.  corn  starch. 

1  cocoanut. 

Add  juice  of  lemons  and  rind  grated,  sugar  and  cocoanut  to 
water  (boiling) .  Add  corn  starch  and  cook  until  mixture  drops  in 
lumps  from  a  spoon.  Spread  between  layers  and  ice  with  plain 
white  icing. 

Mrs.  Fount  Lane, 
Roanoke,  Ala. 

EXCELLENT  FRUIT  CAKE. 

2  scant  cups  butter.  4  cups  sifted  flour. 

3  cups  dark  brown  sugar.  1  level  t-spoon  soda. 

6  eggs.  1  wine  glass  of  wine  or  grape 

1  lb.  seeded  raisins.  juice. 

1  lb.  currants.  1/2  nutmeg. 

1  lb.  citron  (cut  in  thin  strips).     1  tbls.  cinnamon. 

1/2  cup  molasses.  1  t-spoon  cloves. 

i/>  cup  sour  milk.  1  t-spoon  mace. 

"  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  thoroughly ;  add  grated  nut- 
meg, cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace.  Stir  in  molasses  and  sour  milk, 
beat  well.  Add  stiffly  beaten  egg  yolks  and  the  wine,  stir  again 
thoroughly.  Add  sifted  flour,  alternating  with  well  beaten  egg 
whites ;  add  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Dredge  cut  up  fruit 
with  2  heaping  tbls.  flour  and  mix  thoroughly  in  the  cake.  Grease 
two  average  size  baking  pans,  line  with  greased  paper  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  2  hours.     Let  cool  in  pan. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Minson. 


CAKES,  COOKIES  AND  ICINGS 


115 


JAM  CAKE. 


2  cups  sugar. 

2/3  cup  butter. 

1 

2 


1  t-spoon  soda. 
4  cups  sifted  flour. 
6  eggs. 

1  t-spoon    each   of   cloves 
nutmeg, 
lb.  seedless  raisins. 


and 


V2 


cup  buttermilk, 
t-spoons  Royal  baking  pow- 
der. 
2  t-spoon  cinnamon. 
2  cups  jam. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  egg  yolks,  then 
buttermilk  in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Add  spices  and  jam. 
Then  fruit,  which  has  been  dredged  in  little  flour.  A  little  citron, 
sliced  thinly,  may  be  added.  Last,  add  flour  in  which  baking  pow- 
der has  been  sifted,  alternately  with  well  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake 
in  layers  in  moderate  oven  or  in  loaf. 

Mrs.  E.  V.  Carter,  Sr. 

OLD  VIRGINIA  FRUIT  CAKE. 


6  eggs.  1 

6  cups  sifted  flour.  1 

3  cups  sugar.  1 

1  cup  black  molasses.  1 

11/2  cups  butter.  1 

3  lbs.  raisins.  1 

1  lb.  currants.  1 

2  lbs.  figs. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  together ;  add  well  beaten  eggs.     Stir 

spices  into  molasses  and  add  to  mixture ;  then  pour  in  buttermilk. 
Cut  fruit  in  pieces  and  dredge  with  flour.  Stir  in  mixture;  add 
remaining  flour.  Stir  in  brandy.  Bake  very  slowly  for  5  or  6 
hours  over  large  pan  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  Harry  L.  Wills. 


lb.  citron. 

lb.  nut  meats. 

t-spoon  each  cloves  and  mace. 

tbls.  cinnamon. 

wine  glass  brandy. 

t-spoon  soda  dissolved  in 

cup  buttermilk. 


SUPERIOR  FRUIT  CAKE. 


lbs.  sifted  flour, 
lb.  butter, 
lb.  sugar, 
lbs.  stoned  raisins, 
lbs.  currants. 
14  lb.  blanched  almonds. 


1/2  lb.  crystallized  pineapple. 


1^  lb.  crystallized  cherries. 
1  doz.  eggs. 
1  tbls.  allspice. 

1  t-spoon  cloves. 

2  tbls.  cinnamon. 

2  nutmegs  (grated). 
1  cup  molasses. 


Add  spices  to  molasses,  steep  gently  twenty  or  thirty  minutes 
(not  boiling  hot).  Beat  the  eggs  very  light;  add  fruit,  stirring  it 
gradually.  Also  1  t-spoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tbls.  of  water. 
The  fruit  should  be  cut  in  pieces  and  well  floured.  If  necessary, 
add  flour  after  fruit  is  in  mixture.  Butter  a  sheet  of  paper  and 
lay  in  pan.  Pour  in  cake  mixture  and  bake  3  or  4  hours,  according 
to  the  thickness  of  the  loaves,  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  with  a 
steady  heat.     Allow  cake  to  cool  in  the  oven  gradually.     Ice  when 


116  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


cold.     It  improves  this  cake  to  add  1  t-spoon  of  baking  powder  to 
the  flour. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Snelgrove. 

PRIZE  BLACK  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 

2-2/3  cups  brown  sugar.  der. 

21/4  cups  flour.  1/2  cup    sherry    wine    or    fruit 

11/2  cups  molasses.  juice. 

6  eggs.  1  t-spoon  powdered  cloves. 

6  cups  currants.  1  desert   spoon   powdered   cin- 

4  cups  seeded  raisins.  namon. 

4  cups  shredded  citron.  1  tbls.  powdered  ginger. 

1  nutmeg  (grated). 
Add  spices  to  one-half  of  sugar,  cream  this  and  butter  well  to- 
gether. Stir  remainder  of  sugar  in  well  beaten  egg  yolks.  Dredge 
currants  and  raisins  (cut  into  halves)  in  the  flour,  stir  baking 
powder  and  wine  in  molasses.  Mix  above  ingredients  together  (ex- 
cept citron).  Beat  in  egg  whites.  Put  one-fourth  of  mixture  in 
large  tube  pan  lined  with  greased  paper.  Sprinkle  in  layer  of 
citron  and  repeat  this  until  batter  and  citron  are  used.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  about  4  hours.  Place  a  large  pan  of  boiling  water 
under  cake  to  keep  moist  and  prevent  burning. 

Mrs.  Henry  A.  Manning. 

CHEAP  FRUIT  CAKE. 
1  cup    dried    fruit    (apples    or     1  cup  raisins,  lightly  floured. 

peaches).  1  t-spoon  soda. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  cup  buttermilk. 

1  egg.  1  t-spoon  cloves. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  t-spoon  nutmeg. 

31/2  to  4  cups  flour.  1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

Dissolve  soda  in  buttermilk.  Soak  the  dried  fruit  over  night, 
drain,  and  cook  with  the  molasses  until  the  mixture  is  thick.  Add 
the  butter  to  the  hot  mixture  and  allow  it  to  cook  before  adding  the 
remaining  ingredients.  Bake  cake  in  moderate  oven.  This  makes 
a  good-sized  loaf. 

Miss  Esther  Stubbs. 

DIVINITY  FILLING. 
31/2  cups  sugar.  2/3  cup  white  Karo  syrup. 

2/3  cup  hot  water.  3  egg  whites. 

Dissolve  syrup  in  the  hot  water;  pour  over  the  sugar  and 
cook  until  it  ropes.  Have  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth ;  pour  the  above  mixture  on  the  eggs  slowly,  and  beat  as  for 
icing.  When  it  begins  to  harden,  it  is  necessary  to  work  rapidly. 
Use  your  own  tried  and  favorite  recipe  for  the  white  cake  and 
sprinkle  chopped  nuts  between  the  layers. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Bussey,  Cuthbert,  Ga. 
Past  President  3rd  District. 


CAKES,  COOKIES  AND  ICINGS  117 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE  FILLING  NO  1. 
3  cups  sugar.  1  cup  grated  chocolate. 

3  tbls.  Karo  syrup.  2  tbls.  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 

Cook  sugar,  syrup,  milk  and  grated  chocolate  until  it  forms  soft 
ball  in  water.  Remove  from  stove  and  add  butter;  beat  until 
creamy.    This  will  ice  and  fill  one  cake. 

Mrs.  Lela  C.  McKinney. 
CHOCOLATE    FILLING   NO   2. 

2  eggs.  1/2  cup  milk. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

14  cake  chocolate  (cocoa  if  de-     Butter  size  of  walnut, 
sired). 
Cream   eggs   and   sugar;   add   milk   and   cook    until   mixture 
thickens ;  then  add  butter  and  vanilla.     Beat  until  it  is  the  right 
consistency  to   spread  between   cake  layers.     This   mixture   fills, 
covers  top  and  sides  of  a  three  layer  cake. 

Mrs.  D.  M.  Therrell. 
MOCHA  FILLING 

1  lb.  pulverized  sugar.  5  tbls.  strong  liquid  coffee. 
6  tbls.  cocoa.  4  t-spoons  vanilla. 

4  tbls.  butter. 

Cream  sugar,  cocoa  and  butter  together;  add  coffee  slowly, 
stiring  mixture  until  right  consistency.  Add  vanilla,  spread  be- 
tween layers,  on  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

Mrs.  Nellie  B.  Dumas. 

BUTTER  FILLING  FOR  SPONGE  CAKE. 

%  cup  butter.  %  cup  boiling  water. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Mix  all  together,  boil  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from  fire  and 
beat.     This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  one  layer. 

Mrs.  Capers  Hightower, 

Thomaston,  Ga. 

SHERRY  GINGER  CAKE. 

3  cups  sifted  flour.  1  cup  molasses. 
1  cup  sugar.                                      1  egg. 

1  t-spoon  each  1/2  cup  shortening. 

Cinnamon  &  Ginger.  1  t-spoon  orange  juice. 

1  t-spoon  soda.  i/^  t-spoon      orange      peel 

1/4  cup  sherry.  (grated). 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening;  beat  in  egg.  Add  spices,  then 
milk  in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Add  flour  gradually — fla- 
voring. Bake  in  layer  tins.  Put  together  with  boiled  icing  into 
which  a  cup  of  chopped  raisins  has  been  added. 

Mrs.  Hamilton  Douglas, 
Parliamentarian  Atlanta  Woman's  Club. 


118  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 

UNCOOKED  FILLING. 

1  egg  white.  Nuts,  candied  fruit  or  cocoa  if 

1  cup  powdered  sugar.  desired. 

V2  t-spoon  extract. 
"The  egg  should  be  cold  and  the  platter  on  wnich  it  is 
beaten  also  cold.  Sift  the  powdered  sugar.  Sprinkle  small  quan- 
tity of  sugar  over  egg-white  as  soon  as  you  begin  beating;  keep 
adding  at  intervals  until  all  is  used.  The  egg  must  not  be  beaten 
until  the  sugar  has  been  added  in  this  way,  which  gives  a  smooth, 
tender  frosting.  Spread  with  a  broad  knife  over  the  layers  and 
on  top  of  cake.  Dip  knife  constantly  into  hot  water  in  order  to 
smooth  icing.    If  it  seems  too  thin  beat  in  a  little  more  sugar. 

This  recipe  may  be  varied  as  desired  by  the  addition  of  ex- 
tract, finely  chopped  nut-meats  or  candied  fruit,  chocolate  or  col- 
oring. The  extract  and  coloring  should  be  added  soon  after  beat- 
ing is  begun ;  the  other  ingredients  just  before  spreading  on  cake. 

Miss  Esther  Stubbs. 

FRENCH  FILLING. 
4  tbls.  cream.  11/2  cups  fine  sugar. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla.  2  tbls.  melted  butter. 

Add  sugar  and  butter  gradually  until  thoroughly  mixed;  stir 
in  cream  add  vanilla.     Beat  well. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Rawling. 

COCOANUT  FILLING 

2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  water. 

2  egg  whites.  2  cups  grated  cocoanut. 

1  tbls.  lemon  juice.  Pinch  cream  of  tartar. 

Boil  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  water  together  until  syrup 
spins  a  thread,  adding  lemon  juice  a  few  minutes  before  removing 
from  fire.  Beat  until  right  consistency  to  spread.  Place  icing  on 
layers  and  top  of  cake,   sprinkle  generously  with  the  cocoanut. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Ryan. 

LEMON  CHEESE  FILLING 
6  egg  yolks.  %  cups  sugar. 

1/7  cup  water.  2  tbls.  butter. 

2''tbls.  corn  starch.  1  lemon  (juice  and  rmd). 

1  orange  (juice  annd  rind).  2  cans  cocoanut. 

1  slice  crystallized  pineapple.        lV->  cups  crystallized  cherries. 
Cook  yolks  sugar,  water,   and  other  ingredients  together  m 
double  boiler  until  very  thick.     When  cool  enough  to  put  between 
layers,  add  cocoanut  (straining  off  all  milk)  and  crystallized  fruit 

(cut  fine).  _  , , 

Mrs  J.  W.  Goldsmith. 

ORANGE  GLACE  ICING 
ly^  cups  confectioner's  sugar.        1  orange  (juice). 
l^  "t-spoon  baking  powder.  Few  drops  yellow  coloring. 


CAKES,  COOKIES  AND   ICINGS  119 


Add  orange  juice  (strained)  to  sugar,  stir  well  and  dissolve 
over  fire.  Add  coloring  and  baking  powder.  If  necessary  a  little 
warm  water  may  be  added.  This  icing  should  not  be  hot,  only 
warm.     Sufficient  to  ice  one  small  cake. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Manning. 

SOFT  WHITE  ICING. 

2  egg  whites.  V2  t-spoon  cream  of  tartar. 

3  cups  sugar.  14  t-spoon  baking  powder. 
Flavoring. 

Mix  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  baking  powder.  Cover  with 
water  (add  only  enough  to  cover)  and  when  this  begins  to  boil 
add  by  the  spoonful,  as  it  boils,  until  all  has  been  used,  to  the 
whites  which  have  been  broken  up  but  not  beaten.  Flavor.  Will 
be  soft  but  firm. 

Mrs.  Wm.  L.  Percy. 

MARSHMALLOW  FROSTING. 
1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  marshmallows  cut  fine. 

1/3  cup  water.  1  square  chocolate. 

1  egg  white. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Pour  slowly 
on  the  egg-white,  beating  constantly  with  a  wire  whisk.  Put  in 
half  of  marshmallows  at  once  and  when  dissolved  spread  first  layer. 
Put  in  remainder  of  marshmallows  beat  a  little  longer ;  then  spread 
on  top  layer.  Melt  the  chocolate  and  from  a  distance  of  one  foot 
from  cake  shake  the  chocolate  on  gently. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Stevens. 

WHITE   ICING 
%  cup  sugar.  1  egg  white. 

1/3  cup  water. 

Cook  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads  when  poured  from 
a  spoon.  Beat  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  pour  on  the  syrup  slowly 
in  a  fine  stream.     Beat  until  it  is  thick  enough  to  spread. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Coleman. 

UNUSUAL  CHOCOLATE  ICING 

1  cup  confectioner's  sugar,  14  t-spoon  vanilla. 

2  tbls.  cocoa.  *  Strong  hot  coffee. 
2  tbls.  butter. 

Cream  sugar,  cocoa  and  butter  well  together;  add  vanilla 
and  enough  coffee  to  make  right  consistency  to  spread. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Plage,  East  Lake 

CARAMEL   ICING. 
1  cup  brown  sugar.  2  or  3  tbls,  sweet  or  sour  milk. 

1  tbls.  butter,  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Melt  the  brown  sugar  until  like  butter  scotch.  Add  milk  and 
let  boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Add  vanilla  just 
before  taking  from  stove  and  put  on  cake  while  hot. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Phillips. 


120  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


BOILED   FROSTING 

2  cups  milk.  1  level  tbls.  flour. 
1  cup  sugar.  UA  egg  yolks. 

1  tbls.  butter.  1  cup  shredded  citron. 

1  cup  almonds  (chopped  fine). 

Add  sugar  and  butter  to  milk  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Blend 
flour  with  remainder  of  milk,  add  well  beaten  yolks  and  pour  in- 
to above  mixture;  stir  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  and  when  cool 
add  vanilla.  Divide  in  two  portions,  add  almonds  to  one-half 
and  citron  to  the  other  half;  put  almonds  on  the  first  and  citron 
on  the  second.    Place  them  together  and  top  with  white  icing. 

Miss  Wynnette  Manning. 

BOILED  ICING 
1  cup  sugar.  1/2  cup  water. 

1  egg  white.  Flavoring. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  syrup  spins  a  thread;  pour  very 
slowly  into  beaten  eggs,  beat  smooth.     Spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.   R.   L.  Mason. 

RELIABLE  OR  SEVEN  MINUTE  ICING. 

7/8  cup  sugar.  1  egg  white  (unbeaten). 

3  tbls.  cold  water. 

Place  above  ingredients  in  double-boiler,  have  water  in  lower 
boiler  boiling  briskly  and  high  enough  to  surround  upper  boiler 
containing  icing.  Beat  constantly  with  Dover  egg-beater  seven  min- 
utes. Remove  from  fire,  add  1  doz.  marshmallows  cut  in  fourths, 
flavor  and  ice  cake.  If  above  directions  are  followed  and  right  uten- 
sils used  this  icing  will  never  fail  to  be  proper  consistency. 

VARIATIONS  OF  RELIABLE  ICING. 

Chocolate. 
Add  4  tbls.  grated  chocolate  when  removing  from  fire. 

Caramel. 
Melt  lA  tbls.  sugar  in  small  pan    (stirring  constantly)    until 
light  brown  sirup,  add  1  cup  boiling  water  and  cook  to  a  sirup  con- 
sistency.    Add  2  tbls.  this  caramel  sirup  to  icing.     Pineapple  juice 
may  be  used  instead  of  water. 

Mrs.  J.  Carlisle  Smith. 

Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

DATE  BARS. 

4  cups  dates.  Pinch  of  salt. 

2  cups  nuts.  2  eggs. 

2/3  cups  brown  sugar.  2/3  cup  of  flour. 

2/3  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

Cream  the  sugar  with  yolks  of  eggs  and  add  whites  beaten 
light.  Add  the  flour  in  which  baking  powder  and  salt  have  been 
mixed.  Stir  in  the  dates  and  nuts,  spread  in  a  buttered  pan  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.    When  cold  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  Omar  F.  Elder, — State  Chairman. 


CAKES,  COOKIES   AND   ICINGS  121 


DATE  STICKS. 
1  cup  dates.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  tbls.  milk. 

1  cup  nut  meats.  1  t-spoon    Royal    baking    pow- 

1  cup  flour.  der. 

Cut  dates  in  four  (4)  pieces,  break  up  nuts  and  mix  with  dates ; 
add  sugar  then  milk  with  yolks  of  the  eggs — put  in  mixture  and 
mix  well,  then  the  flour  with  the  baking  powder.  It  will  seem  too 
stiff  but  not  so — bake  in  biscuit  pan  about  V2  hour  and  cut  sticks 
and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

This  is  very  nice  for  picnics,  afternoon  teas,  etc.  If  you  like 
they  can  be  cut  in  little  squares  for  tea. 

Mrs.  George  Brower, — Auditor  Woman's  Club. 

FRUIT  BARS. 
1  cup  sugar.  3  eggs. 

1  cup  nut  meats,  1  cup  dates  cut  up. 

1  cup  flour.  1  t-spoon    Royal    baking    pow- 

1/8  t-spoon  salt.  der. 

Beat  sugar  and  eggs  together;  sift  baking-powder  and  salt  to- 
gether. Combine  all  ingredients,  adding  last  the  dates  and  nuts 
which  have  been  dredged  in  flour,  and  pour  into  a  large,  greased 
pan  and  bake  1/2  hour.  It  may  then  be  frosted,  or  else  cut  in  bars, 
and  dipped  in  powdered  sugar.    This  recipe  makes  21/0  dozen. 

Mrs.  Clayton  Mosher, 

Dunkirk,  N.  Y. 

BOSTON  COOKIES. 
1  cup  butter  or  substitute.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

11/2  cups  sugar.  1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

3  eggs.  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

1  t-spoon  soda.  V2  cup  currants. 

11/2  tbls.  hot  water.  1/2  cup  raisins  (chopped). 

314  cups  (sifted)  flour. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  then  soda  dis- 
solved in  hot  water  and  half  of  flour  with  salt  and  cinnamon,  then 
add  nut  meats,  fruit  and  remaining  flour.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on 
buttered  sheets  about  an  inch  apart.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Berley. 

South  Carolina. 

PECAN  STRIPS. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  II/2  t-spoons  baking  powder. 
11/2  cups  flour.                                   11/2  t-spoons  vanilla. 

1  cup  pecan  meats.  4  eggs. 

Beat  eggs  separately,  then  mix  with  sugar  and  cook  in  double 
boiler,  stirring  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Cool,  then  stir  in 
other  ingredients.  Bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  biscuit  pan.  Cut 
in  inch  wide  strips  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  Eugene  Black. 


122 


ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


OATMEAL 
2  cups  oatmeal. 

1  cup  sugar. 
1/2  cup  butter. 

2  cups  seeded  raisins. 
1  t-spoon  soda. 
1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Combine  soda,  flour,  spices  and  oatmeal.  Cream  butter,  lard, 
and  sugar  together,  add  beaten  eggs ;  stir  the  two  mixtures  together 
and  add  milk.    Drop  off  spoon  on  buttered  tin  and  bake. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Hardwick. 


JUMBLES. 
2  cups  flour. 
1/2  cup  lard. 
14  cup  milk. 
2  eggs. 
1  t-spoon  each  cloves,  allspice. 


TEA  CAKES  (VERY  GOOD) 
Flour. 


2  eggs. 

1/2  cup  butter. 

2  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 
der. 


1  cup  sugar. 

2  tbls.  milk. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla. 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  well ;  add  eggs  beaten  together,  then 
milk  and  flavoring,  sift  in  baking  powder.  Add  sufficient  flour  to 
this  mixture  to  make  stiff  dough.  Roll  14  inch  thick  and  cut  any 
desired  shape.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Collier. 


SOFT  GINGER  BREAD. 

4  cups  sifted  flour. 


1/2  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sugar.  1 

1  cup  molasses.  2 

1  cup  sour  milk.  1 

Add  above  ingredients  in  order  given ;  beat  well  together.    Dis- 
solve 1  t-spoon  soda  in  i/>  cup  cold  water  and  stir  in  the  last  thing. 

Mrs.  R.  S.  Hilley. 


cup  chopped  raisins. 

eggs. 

tbls.  ginger. 


FRUIT  COOKIES. 


1  t-spoon  soda. 

IV2  tbls.  boiling  water. 

1  t-spoon  each  cloves,  cinnamon 

and  allspice. 
1  cup  nuts  (chopped  fine). 


1  cup  butter. 
11/2  cups  sugar. 

2  cups  flour. 
V2  t-spoon  salt. 
14  cup  raisins. 
1/)  cup  currants. 

"Mix  sugar  and  butter,  beat  in  eggs.  Add  soda  dissolved  in 
boiling  water.  Mix  flour  and  spices  and  add  to  mixture.  Then 
sift  one  and  one-fourths  cups  flour  and  into  this  roll  the  nuts, 
raisins  and  currants.  Add  this  to  balance  of  mixture.  The  dough 
will  be  very  stiff.  Drop  one  teaspoonful  at  a  time  on  buttered  pan 
— put  far  enough  apart  that  cookies  may  spread.  Bake  very  slowly. 
Requires  about  one-half  hour  to  cook. 

Mrs.  John  R.  Hansbrough. 


CAKES,  COOKIES  AND   ICINGS  123 

KEWPIES. 
1  cup  butter  or  Crisco.  1  level  t-spoon  soda. 

11/2  cups  brown  sugar.  2  cups  nut  meats. 

3  eggs  (beaten).  1  lb.  raisins, 

3  cups  flour. 

Mix  together  into  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a 
warm  greased  pan  and  bake.  If  Crisco  is  used,  add  1  t-spoon  salt 
to  mixture. 

Mrs,  E.  B.  Havis,  Jr. 

CHOCOLATE  DROP  CAKES, 
1/2  cup  butter.  2  cups  nut  meats, 

1/2  cup  milk  (sour).  1  egg. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  I/2  t-spoon  soda. 

1  cup  dates.  2  tbls.  cocoa, 

1/2  cup  raisins. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  milk  and  well  beaten  egg.  Add 
soda  dissolved  in  1  t-spoon  of  water.  Add  to  above  cocoa,  and  flour 
to  make  batter  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  spoon.  Add  raisins,  dates 
and  nut-meats.    Bake  on  greased  pan, 

Mrs,  D.  P.  Spang, 

ROLLED  WAFERS. 

14  cup  butter,  7/8  cup  bread  flour  (Capitola). 

14  cup  powdered  sugar.  1/2  t-spoon  vanilla. 

14  cup  milk. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  milk  drop  by  drop ; 
then  add  flour  and  flavoring.  Spread  very  thinly  with  a  broad, 
long-bladed  knife  on  a  buttered  inverted  dripping  pan.  Crease  in 
3  in.  squares,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  delicately  browned. 
Place  pan  on  back  of  range,  cut  squares  apart  with  a  sharp  knife, 
and  roll  while  warm  in  tubular  or  cornucopia  shape.  If  squares 
become  too  brittle  to  roll,  place  in  oven  to  soften.  If  rolled  tubular 
shape,  tie  in  bunches  with  narrow  ribbon.  These  are  very  attrac- 
tive, and  may  be  served  with  sherbet,  ice  cream,  or  chocolate.  If 
rolled  cornucopia  shape,  they  may  be  filled  with  whipped  cream 
just  before  sending  to  table.  Colored  wafers  may  be  made  from 
this  mixture  by  adding  leaf  green  or  fruit  red.  If  colored  green, 
flavor  with  14  t-spoon  almond  and  %  t-spoon  vanilla.  If  colored 
pink,  flavor  with  rose.  Colored  wafers  must  be  baked  in  a  very 
slow  oven  and  turned  frequently,  otherwise  they  will  not  be  of  uni- 
form color  that  is  desired. 

Hazel  Allison  Stevenson, 

MACAROONS. 
1/2  lb.  almond  paste.  3/8  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

Whites  3  eggs,  (get  this  from  baker  or  confec- 

tioner). 
Work  together  almond  paste  and  sugar  on  a  smooth  board  or 
marble  slab.     Then  add  whites  of  eggs  gradually,  and  work  until 


124  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


mixture  is  perfectly  smooth.  Confectioners  at  first  use  the  hand, 
afterwards  a  palette  knife  which  is  not  only  of  use  for  mixing  but 
for  keeping  board  clean.  Shape,  using  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  on  a 
tin  sheet  covered  with  buttered  paper,  1/2  inch  apart;  or  drop  mix- 
ture from  tip  of  spoon  in  small  piles.  Macaroon  mixture  is  stiff 
enough  to  hold  its  shape,  but  in  baking  spreads.  Bake  15  or  20  min- 
utes in  a  slow  oven.  If  liked  soft,  they  should  be  slightly  baked. 
After  removing  from  oven,  invert  paper,  and  wet  with  a  cloth 
wrung  out  of  cold  water,  when  macaroons  will  easily  slip  off. 

Mrs.  George  S.  Obear,  Jr. 

INDIVIDUAL  NUT  CAKES. 

Makes  24 
1  cup  brown  sugar.  1/3  t-spoon  soda. 

1  cup  nut  meats.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

1  cup  flour.  2  eggs. 

Combine  sugar,  salt,  soda  and  flour  together,  add  nut  meats 
and  then  add  the  two  eggs  unbeaten  to  this.  Stir  only  enough  to 
mix.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  tiny  muffin  rings,  which  have  been 
oiled  and  floured. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Rogers. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES. 

Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff.         2  cups  corn  flakes  (crumbled) . 
1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  shredded  cocoanut. 

Mix  well  and  drop  on  buttered  pan  in  small  cakes  and  brown 

slowly. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Berly. 


CONFECTIONERY. 

Mrs.  George  Obear,  Chairman. 

DIVINITY  CREAMS. 

1st  mixture :  1  cup  water. 

1  cup  Karo.  3  cups  white  sugar. 

Boil  together  to  soft  ball  degree. 
2nd  mixture :  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  sugar.  4  tbls.  water. 

3  Q^g  whites.  1  cup  nuts. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  spins  a  thread.  Pour  this 
over  well  beaten  ^gg  whites.  Combine  first  and  second  mixture, 
beat  well,  adding  nut  meats  and  vanilla.  Drop  fram  spoon  on  but- 
tered paper. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Seay. 


CONFECTIONERY  125 


STUFFED  DATES. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar.  %  cup  cold  water. 

14  t-spoon  cream  of  tartar.  1/8  t-spoon  salt. 

5  drops  or  more  desired  color- 

ing. 
Stir  above  ingredients  together  in  saucepan  until  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Place  over  fire,  boil  rapidly  to  soft  ball  degree.  (Do  not 
stir  mixture  after  beginning  to  boil)  Test  by  dropping  little  of 
syrup  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  let  stand  until  about  luke- 
warm; then  stir  rapidly  until  mixture  begins  to  gather  into  a  solid 
mass.  Knead  with  the  hands  until  fondant  is  the  right  consistency. 
Cut  off  small  pieces  and  stuff  dates  from  which  stones  have  been 
removed.  Lay  on  oil  paper  in  cool  place  for  at  least  12  hours.  Fon- 
dant should  not  be  made  in  damp  weather. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Andrews. 

DATE  LOAF. 

6  cups  sugar.  1  cup  nut  meats. 
1  cup  milk.                                       1  pkg.  dates. 
Butter  size  of  walnut. 

Boil  sugar  and  milk  together  to  soft  ball  degree.  Do  not  stir 
after  liquid  begins  to  boil.  Add  butter  and  dates,  which  have  been 
stoned,  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Let  boil  up  once  or  twice ;  then  re- 
move from  fire.  Beat  until  stiff  and  creamy,  add  nuts  and  con- 
tinue beating  until  mixture  is  stiff  enough  to  stand.  Place  in  clean 
cloth,  which  has  been  wrung  in  cold  water.  Roll  into  a  loaf,  and 
when  cold  cut  in  slices. 

Mrs.  William  A.  Davis. 

BAKED  BONBONS. 

1  QSS-  Chopped  hickory  nuts. 
Orange  extract.                                Pinch  salt. 

114  cups  brown  sugar. 

Beat  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  gradually  brown  sugar  and 
salt.  When  smooth  and  creamy  flavor  with  orange  extract.  Stir 
in  enough  chopped  nuts  to  form  a  stiff  paste,  spread  in  sheets  on 
greased  pans.  Bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cut  in- 
to squares  when  cold. 

Mrs.  A.  H.  Hazzard. 

BETTY  CARAMELS. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  1  t-spoon  coffee  extract. 
1/2  cup  milk.  1  cup  pecan  nut  meats. 

1  tbls.  butter. 

Cook  sugar,  milk  and  butter  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Add  nut  meats  and  extract.  Roll  into  large 
marbles  and  place  on  wax  paper. 

Mrs.  Annabelle  Champion  Banks, 

Greenwood,  Fla. 


126  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


CARAMEL  CANDY. 

2  cups  white  sugar.  2    cups  brown  sugar. 
1  cup  milk.  1/2  cup  butter. 

Few  drops  vanilla. 

Place  sugar,  milk  and  butter  in  boiler,  and  cook  until  a  drop 
will  harden  in  water.  Add  vanilla.  Pour  on  buttered  dish  and  let 
cool.    Stir  while  cooking. 

Miss  Florence  Obear. 

MAPLE  CARAMELS. 
1  lb.  maple  sugar.  1  cup  pecan  meats. 

1  pt.  milk.  1/2  cup  black  walnut  meats. 

Boil  maple  sugar,  broken  up,  in  milk,  stirring  occasionally  to 
avoid  burning,  until  a  little  of  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold 
water.  Remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  nut  meats.  Then  mold  into 
balls. 

Mrs.  Edward  Porter  Van  Valkenburgh. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  FUDGE. 

3  cups  sugar.  2  slices  crystallized  pineapple. 

1  cup  milk.  1  orange. 

2  t-spoon  butter.  1  cup  English  walnut  meats. 
Cook   sugar,   milk   and   butter   together,    stirring   constantly, 

until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Add  juice 
of  orange.  Remove  from  stove  and  add  nuts  and  pineapple,  which 
have  been  broken  in  small  pieces.  (Cherries  may  also  be  used). 
Beat  until  creamy.     Pour  into  buttered  dish.      Mark  into  squares. 

Mrs.  S.  A.  Ledbetter, 

ANGEL  FUDGE. 

3  cups  white  sugar.  2/3  cup  (Red  Label  Karo.) 
1/2  cup  boiling  water.  1  cup  nut  meats. 

3  egg  whites.  1  t-spoon  vanilla  or  almond. 

Pinch  of  salt.  14  t-spoon  Royal  baking  pow- 

der. 
Boil  sugar,  syrup,  water  and  salt  until  brittle  or  forms  a  hard 
ball  in  cold  water,  pour  slowly  into  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  beat- 
ing constantly  with  wire  whisk.  When  nearly  cool  add  baking  pow- 
der, nuts  and  flavoring.  Beat  together.  Drop  on  buttered  or  waxed 
paper  by  spoonfuls.    Half  walnuts  and  half  almonds  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  Tull  C.  Waters. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE. 
3  sq.  chocolate  of  1/2   lb  block     1  lump  butter  size  walnut, 
or,    6    heaping   t-spoons    4  cups  sugar, 
cocoa.  %  cup  evaporated  milk. 

Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  water.  Remove 
from  fire,  beat.  When  begins  to  candy  add  2  t-spoons  vanilla  and 
turn  into  a  greased  dish.    Mark  in  squares  when  a  little  cool. 

Mrs.  John  Hardwick. 


CONFECTIONERY  127 

ROSE  CREAM  MINTS. 
11/2  cups  sugar.  White  1  egg. 

2  tbls.  white  corn  syrup.  4  drops  oil  wintergreen. 

1/4  cup  water.  Pink  coloring. 

Put  sugar,  corn  syrup  and  water  into  a  smooth  granite  sauce- 
pan, heat  gradually  to  boiling  point,  and  boil  without  stirring  until 
syrup  will  spin  a  long  thread  (238°F.).  Pour  slowly  on  the  beaten 
white  of  egg,  and  beat  until  mixture  will  hold  shape.  Add  flavoring 
and  coloring.  Force  on  an  oiled  paper,  using  a  pastry  bag  and 
rose  tube.    The  work  must  be  done  quickly. 

Miss  Hazel  Allison  Stevenson. 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 
1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  cup  molasses. 

1  tbls.  vinegar.  2  tbls.  melted  butter. 
V2  t-spoon  soda. 

Stir  above  ingredients  together.  Boil  until  brittle  when  tested 
in  cold  water.  Just  before  removing  mixture  from  fire  stir  in  soda. 
Pour  in  buttered  tins. 

Estelle  Cresse. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  CREAM  CANDY. 

2  cups  sugar.  %.  cup  peanut  butter. 
%  cup  water. 

Make  the  same  as  pulling  candy ;  pour  on  marble  slab  or  plat- 
ter, add  peanut  butter  and  pull  until  creamy. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Stitt. 

"MODERN  TOPICS"  CANDY 
2  cups  granulated  sugar.  1  pkg.  dates. 

2  cups  milk.  1  tbls.  butter. 

2  cups  shelled  pecans.  1  pinch  salt. 

Cook  sugar  and  milk  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball.  Remove  from 
fire,  add  butter,  salt,  dates.  Mix  thoroughly,  then  add  nuts  and  beat 
like  fudge.    Pour  on  buttered  platter  and  cut  into  oblong  pieces. 

Mrs.  L.  T.  Patillo. 

FRENCH  NOUGAT. 

1/2  lb.  confectioner's  sugar.  14,  lb.    almonds,    blanched    and 

Confectioner's  chocolate.  finely  chopped. 

Put  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  place  on  range,  and  stir  constantly 
until  melted ;  add  almonds,  and  pour  on  an  oiled  marble.  Fold  mix- 
ture as  it  spreads  with  a  broad-bladed  knife,  keeping  it  constantly 
in  motion.  Divide  in  four  parts,  and,  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  han- 
dle, shape  in  long  rolls  about  1/3  inch  in  diameter,  keeping  rolls 
in  motion  until  almost  cold.  When  cold  snap  in  pieces  ly^ 
inches  long.  This  is  done  by  holding  roll  at  point  to  he  snapped 
over  the  sharp  edge  of  a  broad-bladed  knife  and  snapping.  Melt 
confectioners'  chocolate  over  hot  water,  beat  with  a  fork  until  light 
and  smooth,  and  when  slightly  cooled  dip  pieces  in  chocolate  and 


128  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


with  a  two-tined  fork  or  bonbon  dipper  remove  from  chocolate  to 
oiled  paper,  drawing  dipper  through  top  of  each  the  entire  length 
thus  leaving  a  ridge.  Chocolate  best  adapted  for  dipping  bonbons 
and  confections  must  be  bought  where  confectioners'  supplies  are 
kept. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 

NOUGATINE  DROPS. 
Drop  French  Nougat  mixture  from  the  tip  of  a  spoon  on  an  oiled 
marble  very  soon  after  taking  from  fire.    These  drops  have  a  rough 
surface.    When  cold,  dip  in  melted  confectioners'  chocolate. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 

FONDANT. 

2  cups  sugar.  1/8  t-spoon  cream  of  tartar. 
14  cup  boiling  water.  1/2  t-spoon  glycerine. 

1  t-spoon  flavoring.  10  drops  desired  coloring. 

Stir  sugar,  water,  cream  of  tartar  and  glycerine  together  and 
place  on  fire  in  smooth  granite  saucepan.  Boil  rapidly  without 
stirring  until  a  jelly  like  ball  will  form  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  a 
bowl,  cool,  and  beat  until  white  and  creamy.  Knead  until  smooth.  Re- 
turn to  bowl  and  cover  with  oiled  paper  and  let  stand  1  hour.  When 
ready  to  use  reheat  until  soft,  take  off  fire  and  knead  as  formerly. 
Then  flavor,  color  and  make  into  fancy  shapes. 

Mrs.  Katherine  S.  Fitts. 

Club  Cateress. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  CANDY. 

3  cups  white  sugar.  1  cup  brown  sugar. 

2  tbls.  butter.  1  medium  jar  peanut  butter. 
Few  drops  vanilla. 

Cover  sugar  with  water  and  cook  until  it  strings.  Pour  on  a 
greased  marble  slab  and  pour  peanut  butter  over  the  candy.  Pull 
and  then  place  on  a  dish.  If  it  does  not  cream  put  dish  with  candy 
in  stove  and  in  a  few  minutes  it  will  be  creamed. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Flanders. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE. 
1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  nuts. 

Prepare,  roll  fine,  and  measure  nuts.  To  every  cup  of  nuts  al- 
low 1  of  sugar,  white  or  brown,  or  both  combined.  Put  the  sugar 
without  water  in  a  saucepan  over  a  slow  fire.  Stir  until  sugar 
is  all  in  liquid  form.  Stir  in  the  nuts  and  pour  into  well-buttered 
pan.  Just  before  it  is  cold  mark  off  into  squares  with  back  of  knife 
dipped  in  cold  water.    Any  kind  of  nut  can  be  used. 

Miss  Lillian  Pierpont. 

POPCORN  BALLS. 
Pop  the  corn  in  an  iron  vessel  in  very  hot  lard  that  has  been 
salted.    Dip  off  the  popped  grains  into  a  bowl  or  pan.    Make  a  syrup 


CONFECTIONERY  129 


of  11/2  cups  of  granulated  sugar  and  %  cup  of  water.  Let  this  boil 
until  a  soft  ball  forms  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  the 
syrup  over  the  popped  corn,  stirring  the  corn  all  the  time.  Then, 
with  the  hands,  form  the  corn  into  balls. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Melton. 
Emory  University,  Ga. 

POP-CORN  BALLS. 

4  qts.  pop-corn.  1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  molasses.  1  cup  water. 

Cook  all  except  corn  until  candied,  stir  in  corn.  Mold  in  balls 
before  it  is  cold.    Oil  fingers  if  they  stick. 

Elizabeth  Garretson. 

PARISIAN  SWEETS. 
1  lb.  figs.  1  lb.  English  walnuts. 

1  lb.  dates.  Confectioner's  sugar. 

Pick  over  and  remove  stems  from  figs  and  stones  from  dates. 
Mix  fruit  with  walnut  meat,  and  force  through  a  meat-chopper. 
Work,  using  the  hands,  on  a  board  dredged  with  confectioners' 
sugar,  until  well  blended.  Roll  to  one-fourth  inch  thickness,  using 
confectioner's  sugar  for  dredging  board  and  pin.  Shape  with  a 
small  round  cutter,  first  dipped  in  sugar,  or  cut  with  a  sharp  knife 
in  %  inch  squares.  Roll  each  piece  in  confectioners'  sugar,  and 
shake  to  remove  superfluous  sugar.  Pack  in  layers  in  a  tin  box, 
putting  paper  between  each  layer.  These  confections  may  be  used 
at  dinner  in  place  of  bonbons  or  ginger  chips.  A  combination  of 
nut  meat  (walnut,  almond,  and  filbert)  may  be  used  in  equal  pro- 
portions. 

Mrs.  Clyde  Allison  Stevenson. 

Camilla,  Ga. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  CANDY. 

2  cups  sugar.  20  marshmallows. 
%  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

V2  cup  cocoa  or  14  cake  choc.        Butter  size  of  walnut. 

Boil  sugar,  milk,  cocoa  and  butter  until  it  forms  a  rather  firm 
ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  add  marshmallows  and  va- 
nilla ;  beat  until  creamy.    Pour  on  platter,  when  cool  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Stitt. 


o 


CHAPTER  X. 

DINNERS. 

SOUPS. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Manry,  Chairman, 

We  begin  a  meal  with  soup  to  start  the  flow  of  the  digestive 
juices.  The  clear  soups  have  very  little  food  value.  All  soups 
should  be  started  with  cold  water,  heating  slowly,  and  never  allowed 
to  cook  above  the  simmering  point. 

Mary  P.  Means. 

CREAM  OF  ONION  SOUP. 

Salt.  White  pepper. 

2  cups  onions.  1  cup  milk. 

1  cup  of  cold  water.  2  tbls.  flour. 

Place  2  cups  of  thinly  sliced  onions  in  sauce  pan  and  add  1  cup 
of  cold  water.  Cook  until  soft  and  then  rub  thru  a  fine  sieve. 
Measure  and  return  to  sauce  pan,  and  add  1  cup  of  milk  for  every 
cup  of  onion  puree  and  2  level  tbls.  flour  to  every  cup  of  milk.  Stir 
to  dissolve  flour  then  bring  to  a  boil  and  cook  slowly  for  5  mins. 
Season,  using  salt  and  white  pepper.  Serve,  then  add  1  tbl.  of  but- 
ter to  every  qt.  of  cream  soup.  Croutons  or  toasted  strips  of  bread 
make  a  delicious  accompaniment  to  the  cream  soup.  (See  receipe) 
for  croutons. 

Method  Of  Preparing  Croutons. 

Cut  slices  of  bread  into  one-inch  blocks,  and  place  on  a  baking 
sheet  and  bake  until  golden  brown.  Place  in  a  tin  box  or  jar  and 
seal.  When  ready  to  use  just  reheat  to  crisp  and  then  serve.  Stale 
bread  may  be  used  for  this  purpose. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 


132  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

1 

chicken. 

l^  t-spoon  pepper. 

or 

1  can  tomatoes. 

1 

soup  bone  (beef). 

1  onion. 

2 

t-spoons  salt. 

1  pt.  lima  beans. 

6 

ears  corn. 

3  slices  b.  bacon. 

3 

Irish  potatoes. 

2  qts.  water. 

Dress  chicken,  cut  in  small  pieces,  place  in  pot  with  water, 
cook  until  meat  drops  from  bone,  add  salt,  pepper,  onion,  tomatoes, 
beans,  and  potatoes  cut  fine.  Cook  slowly  liA  hrs.  then  fry  bacon 
crisp,  mince  fine,  pour  bacon  and  grease  into  soup  mixture,  cut  corn 
from  cob,  add  and  cook  10  mins.  Serve  with  Virginia  corn  pones. 
(See  recipe  under  Breads.) 

Mrs.  Jesse  M.  Manry. 

CLAM  SOUP. 
1  pt.  water.  3  potatoes. 

1  small  onion.  1  tbls.  butter. 

1  qt.  clams.  Salt  and  pepper. 

1  qt.  milk. 

Chop  clams,  potatoes  and  onions  fine;  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Cook  in  water  15  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  milk 
boiling  hot. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Cresse. 

RED  KIDNEY  BEAN  SOUP. 
(Very  delicious). 

1  pt.  kidney  beans.  2  bay  leaves, 
(soaked  over  night).  12  whole  cloves. 

2  qts.  cold  water.  6  whole  spice. 
2  whole  grains  pepper.  1  gill  cream. 

1  egg.  1  small  onion. 

Small  steak  bone  1  lemon. 

Salt  to  taste. 

Place  steak  bone  and  beans  on  in  the  cold  water,  add  bay  leaf, 
cloves,  pepper  and  spice.  Boil  slowly  3  hours,  adding  water  if  neces- 
sary. Add  onion  sliced.  Boil  2  hours  longer,  mash  thru  sieve  twice. 
When  ready  to  serve  add  salt,  cream,  sherry,  lemon  sliced  thin, 
egg  boiled  hard  and  chopped  fine. 

Mrs.  Albert  Thornton, 
Pres.  Atlanta  City  Federation  Woman's  Clubs. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP. 

1  can  tomato  soup.  1/2  pt-  cream,  whipped. 

1  pt.  milk.  Salt. 

Combine  soup  and  milk,  add  seasoning,  and  heat.  Drop  spoon- 
ful of  whipped  cream  on  each  serving,  and  sprinkle  paprika  over 
top. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Plage, 

East  Lake. 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Cresse,  Chairman. 

All  sea  food  spoils  easily  and  therefore  should  be  kept  very  cold 
and  used  as  soon  after  catching  as  possible.  In  buying  fish,  see 
that  the  gills  are  bright  red  the  flesh  firm,  and  the  eyes  bright. 
Oysters  should  be  cooked  as  little  as  possible,  never  after  they  begin 
to  shrivel. 

M.  P.  Means. 

PLANKED  FISH. 

1  fish.  4  medium  size  potatoes. 

2  tbls.  butter.  1  lemon. 

1  t-spoon  parsley.  Salt  and  papper  to  taste. 

Prepare  a  whole  fish,  weighing  about  3  lbs.  as  for  baking. 
If  possible  remove  backbone.  Have  ready  a  smooth  oak  plank 
1x8x12  inches  long.  Heat  Plank  hot,  place  fish  on  it,  and  bake  in 
oven  about  1  hour  according  to  size  of  fish.  Remove  from  oven,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Have  potatoes  cooked,  mashed  and  seasoned. 
With  pastry  bag  and  tube  place  2  rows  of  potatoes  around  fish. 
Return  to  oven  and  brown.  When  well  browned  dress  fish  with 
sauce  of  butter,  lemon  juice  and  chopped  parsley.  Garnish  with 
slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle. 

BAKED  TUNA  FISH. 


2  eggs. 

1  onion  (chopped). 
1/2  t-spoon  celery  seed. 
34  cups  milk  or  water. 


1  seven  ounce  can  Tuna  fish. 
4  cups  bread  crumbs. 
11/2  t-spoon  Royal  bkg.  powder. 
1  green  bell  pepper  (chopped). 
Butter  size  of  walnut. 

Mix  all  ingredients  with  Tuna  fish  and  bake  in  a  Pyrex  dish  30 
minutes.     Serve  with  tartar  or  Worcester  sauce. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Melton, 
Emory  University,  Ga. 


134  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


BROILED  SHAD. 
Select  male  shad,  split  down  the  back.  Use  a  double  grid  iron. 
Heat  it  and  rub  the  bars  with  a  piece  of  suet  before  laying  on  the 
fish.  Broil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  according  to  the  size,  turning 
frequently  prevents  scorching.  It  is  done  when  the  bone  will  lift 
readily  from  the  flesh. 

Miss  May  Tindall. 

BROILED  MACKEREL. 
Select  choice  mackerel,  split  open  on  back.  Pour  over  fish  2 
t-spoons  of  melted  butter.  Place  in  hot  pan  and  broil.  Turn, 
cooking  about  15  minutes.  Place  in  hot  platter,  pouring  over  a 
little  melted  butter.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  garnish  with 
sliced  lemon  and  sprig  of  parsley. 

Mrs.  Jesse  M.  Manry. , 

SHRIMP  GUMBO. 

Salt  and  pepper. 
Butter  size  of  egg.  1  can  tomatoes. 

1  small  onion.  Parsley. 

1  green  pepper.  Little  celery. 

Brown  onion  (minced)  in  butter,  thicken  with  a  little  flour, 
then  add  tomatoes  and  other  vegetables  all  minced  fine  and  season- 
ings. Thoroughly  wash  shrimps,  and  add  to  mixture. 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Selig,  Jr. 

FRIED  FROG  LEGS. 
Skin  legs  and  let  stand  in  salt  water  one  hour.      Wipe  dry, 
season,  roll  in  flour  or  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Weaver. 

FRIED  FISH. 
Wipe  fish  dry  inside  and  out  with  clean  towel.      Season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  roll  in  corn  meal.      Fry  in  boiling  deep  fat, 
preferably  lard,  as  it  browns  them  better  and  they  keep  firmer. 

Mrs.  L.  R.  Smith. 

DELICIOUS  SHAD  ROE. 
1  shad  roe.  1  level  tbls.  flour. 

1  cup  hot  water  salted  to  taste.     1  level  tbls.  butter. 

Clean  roe  well  and  drop  in  boiling  water,  cooking  gently 
twenty  minutes.  Drain.  Butter  a  tin  and  lay  the  drained  roe 
upon  it.  Dredge  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  with  butter  and 
then  dredge  with  flour.  Cook  in  oven  for  half  an  hour.  Baste 
frequently  with  the  mixture  of  flour,  butter  and  water. 

Clementine  B.  Rawling. 

FISH  CHOWDER. 
(New  England  Recipe). 
11/2  lbs.  fish.  3  slices  salt  pork. 

3  medium  sized  potatoes.  2  cups  milk. 

1  large  onion.  1  tbls.  butter 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS  135 


Boil  fish  till  done,  using  haddock,  cod,  or  any  large  fish.  Cook 
potatoes  and  onion  slowly  in  liquor  from  fish.  Fry  out  pork,  add 
bones  and  skin.  Add  to  potatoes  and  onions  (chopped  fine).  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mrs.  H.  M.  Larrabee, 

Boston,  Mass. 

MOLDED  HALIBUT  OR  HADDOCK. 
1  lb.  halibut  or  haddock.  1  cup  cream. 

1  lb.  bread  crumbs.  1  tbls.  butter. 

1/4  t-spoon  celery  salt.  4  egg  whites. 

Add  cream  and  butter  to  bread  crumbs  and  cook  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Put  in  fish  which  has  been  through  meat  grinder.  Then 
the  celery,  salt  and  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff.  Bake  3/4  of  an  hour  in 
bread  pan  lined  with  oiled  paper  and  placed  in  under  pan  of  hot 
water.     Serve  with  almond  sauce. 

OYSTERS  ON  THE  HALF  SHELL. 
Keep  on  ice  till  serving  time.  Have  small  soup  plates  half 
full  of  fine  ice,  and  lay  the  deep  half  shell  on  the  plates  as  soon  as 
opened.  Salt,  pepper  and  cut  lemon  should  be  served  at  the  side. 
Small  oysters  are  preferred  and  four  to  six  are  enough  for  each 
plate. 

Mrs.  L.  E.  St.  John. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 
Lay   oysters   on    a    cloth    and   press    another   upon    them   to 
absorb  the  moisture.      Roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  then   dip  in 
beaten  eggs,  then  again  in  cracker  crumbs.      Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.      Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  D.  L.  Farrow. 

FRIED  OYSTERS  A  LA  THORNTON 

1  pint  oysters.  1/2  cup  cracker  meal. 

1/2  cup  corn  meal.  Post  toasties. 

Mix  the  corn  meal  and  cracker  meal  well  on  a  large  platter. 
Salt  and  pepper  oysters  and  dip  lightly  into  meal  mixture.  Beat 
2  eggs  well  and  drop  the  oysters  into  them,  have  the  post  toasties 
arranged  on  a  large  platter  and  drop  the  oysters  into  them  and 
pat  lightly  so  as  to  make  them  stick  to  the  oysters.  Fry  in  deep 
very  hot  fat.  Garnish  with  sour  pickle  and  parsley  and  serve  on 
toast. 

Thornton  Cafeteria. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 
50  large  oysters.  1  cup  milk. 

3  t-spoons  cornstarch.  1  tbls.  butter. 

Drain  oysters  through  colander  and  lay  on  cloth.  Have  cake 
griddle  perfectly  clean,  hot  and  well  buttered.  Put  on  as  many  oys- 
ters as  it  will  hold  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  curl  up,  turn,  cook  on 


136  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


the  other  side,  not  too  much.    Then  put  in  sauce  pan,  so  on  until  oys- 
ters are  all  done. 

Mix  corn  starch  with  milk  and  pour  over  oysters,  put  in  butter, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  boil  up  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Mary  Phillips. 

OYSTER  STEW. 
1  qt.  oysters.  1  cup  milk. 

1  cup  hot  water.  1  t-spoon  butter. 

1  t-spoon  flour.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Drain  liquor  from  oysters,  add  1  cup  water  and  let  come  to  a 
boil.  Then  add  oysters,  and  when  this  comes  nearly  to  a  boil,  re- 
move oysters  to  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served.  Mix  to  a  paste 
the  flour  with  a  little  milk,  add  butter  and  the  rest  of  the  milk  and 
let  come  to  a  boil.      Pour  over  oysters  and  serve. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Cresse. 

OYSTER  TOAST. 
15  large  oysters.  2  well  beaten  eggs. 

1  gill  cream. 

Chop  oysters  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.  Add  the  well  beaten  eggs,  also  the  liquor  from  oysters 
and  the  cream.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  when  set  pour  over  hot 
buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Williams. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

2  slices  salt  pork.  3  pts.  hot  milk. 

25  clams,  II/2  cups  cracker  crumbs. 

2  large  Irish  potatoes.  4  onions. 

11/2  cans  tomatoes.  1  bunch  celery. 

Salt.  Pepper, 

2  qts.  water. 

Cut  pork  into  small  pieces  and  fry  slowly  in  bottom  of  kettle 
until  all  fat  is  fried  out.  Add  clams  and  potatoes,  onions  and  celery, 
all  of  which  have  been  put  through  chopper.  Add  tomatoes  and  2 
quarts  of  water,  and  enough  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  being  care- 
ful as  clams  are  already  salty.  Boil  slowly  four  hours  and  fifteen 
minutes  before  serving.     Add  milk  and  crackers. 

Mrs.  Charles  Myers. 

PICKLED  SHRIMP. 

Charleston    Style. 

1  qt.  shrimp  (boiled  &  picked) .     1  t-spoon  allspice.  • 
1  t-spoon  whole  black  pepper.       1  t-spoon  salt. 
1/2  pint  vinegar. 

Heat  up  vinegar,  salt  and  spices  and  pour  over  shrimp  while 
hot.     Set  away  to  cool  before  serving. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Cresse. 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS  137 

CRAB  FARCIS.  (STUFFED  CRABS) 
A  CREOLE  DISH. 

2  cans  crab  meat.  1  large  onion. 

3  tbls.  lard.  1  this,  butter. 

2  bay  leaves.  3  sprigs  parsley. 

1  cup  wet  bread. 

As  lard  heats  in  frying-pan,  add  chopped  onion.  Add  crab 
meat  as  onion  curls ;  let  fry  and  add  bread,  squeezed  free  of  water. 
Mix  all  well  together,  add  salt,  pepper,  bay  leaves  and  butter.  Sim- 
mer five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire  and  when 
cold,  place  in  butter-greased  shells.  Dot  with  butter  and  top  with 
grated  bread  crumbs.  Bake  five  minutes.  Serve,  garnishing  with 
sprigs  of  parsley  or  celery. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Pratt. 

CLAM  FRITTERS.    NO.  1. 

1  pt.  clams.  2  eggs. 

1  pt.  flour.  1  t-spoon  Royal  baking  powder, 
1/2  pt.  milk.  l^  t-spoon  salt. 

Pinch  Cayenne  pepper.  Butter  size  of  egg. 

Grind  clams  in  food  chopper,  beat  eggs  light,  add  milk,  sifted 
flour,  salt,  pepper  and  butter  which  has  been  warmed  but  not  melted 
then  baking  powder  and  clams.  Cook  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on 
brown  paper.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  N.  C.  Booker, 
.  .  Norfolk,  Va. 

CLAM  FRITTERS.    NO  2. 

12  clams.  2  eggs. 

1/2  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

2  tbls.  flour. 

Open  clams,  wash  in  cold  water  and  drain.  Put  in  chopping 
bowl  and  chop  fine.  Add  flour  with  baking  powder  and  yolks  of 
eggs,  put  in  milk  and  mix.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
add  last.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  P.  H.  Grace, 
Cape  May,  N.  J. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

12  clams.  l^  lb.  salt  pork. 

2  white  onions.  2  potatoes, 

6  crackers.  1  tbls.  butter. 

1  pt.  milk. 

Chop  clams  fine.  Cut  up  pork  fine  and  fry.  Slice  onions  thin, 
cut  potatoes  in  dice,  adding  crackers  crushed.  Put  all  in  kettle  in 
alternate  layers  with  pieces  of  butter,  using  enough  water  to  keep 
boiling  30  minutes.     Add  hot  milk  and  serve, 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Beam. 


138  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


LOBSTER. 

Lobster  to  be  edible  should  be  perfectly  fresh.  One  of  the 
tests  of  freshness  is  to  draw  back  the  tail ;  if  it  springs  into  position 
again,  it  is  safe  to  think  the  fish  good. 

The  time  of  boiling  varies  with  the  size  of  the  lobster  and  in 
different  localities.  In  Boston  and  other  places  on  the  Massachu- 
setts coast,  the  time  is  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  for  large  lobsters 
and  ten  for  small. 

The  usual  way  is  to  plunge  them  into  a  pot  with  enough  boiling 
water  in  the  bottom  to  create  a  steam  without  boiling  dry.  Cover 
tightly.  There  are  few  ways  of  cooking  lobster  in  which  it  should 
be  more  than  thoroughly  heated,  as  much  cooking  toughens  it  and 
destroys  the  fine  delicate  flavor. 

Mrs.  R.  T.  Cresse, 

Boston,  Mass. 
STEWED  LOBSTER. 

1  tbls.  butter.  14  lemon. 
Pinch  cayenne.  1  tbls.  flour. 

2  medium  sized  lobsters.  1/2  cup  water. 

Boil  or  steam  lobster  till  done.  Pick  out  and  dice,  season  with 
salt  to  taste  cayenne  and  lemon  juice.  Make  a  sauce  of  1  tbls.  of 
flour  1/2  cup  of  water  and  1  tbls.  of  butter.  Add  the  seasoned  lobster 
and  simmer  five  minutes — serve. 

Emily  B.  Thompson. 

LOBSTER  CROQUETTES. 

Chop  the  lobster  very  fine  and  mix  with  it  pepper,  salt  and 
bread  crumbs,  season  well  with  celery  sauce  and  moisten  with  melted 
butter,  mold  into  shape ;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs 
and  fry  brown. 

Mrs.  S.  H.  Moore. 

DEVILED  CRABS. 
1  qt.  crab  meat.  1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

lA  lb.  butter.  Yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs. 

1  t-spoon  mixed  mustard. 

Mix  crab  meat,  bread  crumbs,  egg  yolks,  and  mustard.  Melt 
butter  and  pour  over.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pack  in  well 
cleaned  crab  shells,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  quick 
oven. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Hughes. 

SALMON  MOUSSE. 
1  cup  milk.  2  eggs. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  1  envelope  gelatine. 

1/2  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  salmon. 

1/4  cup  whipped  cream. 

Heat  milk  in  double  boiler;  when  scalded  add  it  slowly  to 
well   beaten    eggs,    add   salt.       Soak   gelatine    in    cold   water   and 


POULTRY  AND   GAME  139 


add  to  hot  custard  mixture  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  salmon 
and  set  in  a  cool  place.  When  the  mixture  is  just  beginning  to 
stiffen,  beat  in  whipped  cream.  Serve  the  salmon,  mold  with  a 
cucumber  sauce,  made  by  adding  to  half  cup  of  whipped  cream, 
salt,  cayenne  and  very  gradually  two  tbls.  of  vinegar,  and  one 
cucumber  chopped  fine  and  drained.  A  little  onion  juice  is  also  a 
good  flavor. 

Mrs.  R.  T.  Aderhold, 
President,  Woman's  Club,  College  Park,  Ga. 

POULTRY. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Cresse,  Chairman. 

To  dress  poultry.  After  the  bird  is  picked,  singe  hairs  over  a 
flame.  Cut  off  head,  draw  out  pin  feathers.  Then  cut  thru  skin 
around  joint  of  leg  and  draw  out  tendons,  by  holding  upper  leg  in 
left  hand  and  slipping  a  skewer  under  each  cendcn  and  pulling  it 
from  the  flesh.  Break  joint  and  leg  can  be  removed  with  the  tough 
tendons.  Cut  through  skin  carefully  below  breastbone  and  with 
the  hand  loosen  and  remove  organs.  The  crop  may  be  removed 
from  the  other  end  of  bird,  with  wir.dpipe.  Wash  bird  out  with 
water,  or  soda  and  water,  being  careful  to  remove  all  bits  of  lung. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

(Chestnut  Dressing) . 


1  turkey  (10  to  14  lb.) 

Sage. 

1  loaf  dry  bread. 

1  lb.  of  chestnuts, 

2  tbls.  butter. 

1  cup  celery. 

1  small  onion. 

1  egg. 

1  apple. 

Parsley. 

Select  a  plump  turkey,  draw  and  wash  thoroughly.  Make 
stuffing  of  bread,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  sage.  Add 
onion  and  celery  chopped  fine,  and  the  chestnuts  hulled  and  scalded, 
to  take  off  the  inner  coating,  add  the  well  beaten  egg,  and  enough 
hot  water  to  moisten.  Place  apple  in  the  crop — the  juice  tends  to 
keep  the  turkey  moist  and  the  blending  of  the  different  savors,  gives 
a  delicious  flavor.  It  must  not  be  pasty,  therefore  use  chopping 
knife  or  large  mixing  knife  to  work  ingredients  together.  Do 
not  allow  to  brown  much  the  first  hour.  Time  required  3  hours. 
Oysters  may  be  substituted  for  chestnuts. 

Mrs.  Norman  Pool. 

CRANBERRY  SNOW. 
'    4  cups  cranberries.  2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  water.  2  egg  whites. 

Cook  berries  in  water  until  soft,  strain  through  sieve,  add 
sugar  and  cook  from  5  to  10  minutes.  When  mixture  jellies,  fold 
in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.      Pour  in  mold  and  set  in  cool  place 


140  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK  BOOK 


until  firm.     May  be  served  with  either  baked  chicken  or  turkey. 
Must  be  used  at  once. 

Miss  Silvia  Northcutt, 
Louisville,  Ky. 

ESCALLOPED  TURKEY. 

2  or  3  cups  turkey  meat.  i/4  cup  butter. 

Vi)  cup  milk.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs    (more  if 

needed). 
Pick  meat  from  bones  of  cold  turkey,  chop  fine.  Put  in  well 
buttered  baking  dish  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  then  of  turkey,  and 
add  small  pieces  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Alternate  these  in- 
gredients until  all  are  used  or  dish  is  nearly  full.  Pour  the  milk 
over  this,  then  mix. 

2  eggs  beaten.  2  tbls.  milk. 
1  tbls.  melted  butter.                       Salt  to  taste. 

Add  to  this  mixture  enough  cracker  crumbs  to  spread.  Cover 
turkey  mixture  with  seasoned  cracker  mixture,  put  bits  of  butter 
over  top,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  3/4  hour. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Rawling. 

CRYSTALLIZED   CRANBERRIES. 
1  qt.  cranberries.  1  pt.  sugar. 

1  pt.  water. 

Wash  and  drain  cranberries,  add  water,  boil  ten  minutes,  then 
add  sugar  and  cook  15  minutes,  or  until  juice  jells  when  tried  on 
saucer.     Do  not  stir  while  cooking. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Price-Smith. 

ALMOND  SAUCE. 

1/4  lb.  almonds.  1  pint  cream. 

2  tbls.  butter.  2  tbls.  flour. 

Blanch  almonds,  cut  fine  and  brown  in  best  butter.  Blend 
cream  and  flour  and  let  come  to  a  boil  in  double  boiler.  Add  butter 
and  gradually  the  almonds.    Salt  to  taste.    Pour  over  fish. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Nickerson, 

Portland,  Maine, 

BAKED  CHICKEN. 
Select  a  chicken  with  soft  feet,  smooth  skin  and  soft  cartilege 
at  the  end  of  the  breast  bone.  Dress,  clean  and  stuff.  Hold 
chicken  in  original  shape  by  means  of  skewers.  Place  on  its  back 
on  rack  in  baking  pan.  Sprinkle  salt  over  the  surface  of  the  chicken. 
Cover  breast  and  wings  with  a  paste  made  of  two  tbls.  each  of 
butter  and  flour.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  until  chicken  is  well  browned. 
Pour  1  cup  of  boiling  water  and  1/4  cup  butter  (melted  in  water) 
into  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Place  cover  on  pan,  lower  temperature 
of  oven  and  cook  slowly  until  breast  meat  is  tender  when  tested 
with  a  fork.  A  four  pound  chicken  requires  about  two  hours  for 
baking. 


POULTRY  AND   GAME  141 


STUFFING. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs.  4  tbls.  butter  (melted) . 
1/2  cup  boiling  water.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Soak  crumbs  in  boiling  water,  add  butter  and  seasonings. 

Miss  Clara  Lee  Cone, 
Head  of  Economics  Dept.  Girls'  High  School. 

POULTRY  STUFFING  NO  1. 

2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs.  1  tbls.  chopped  parsley. 
1/2  cup  fine  sausage  meat.               1  tbls.  chopped  onion. 
14  cup  butter.                                   1  t-spoon  salt. 

Pinch  nutmeg.  2  eggs. 

1/2  t-spoon  pepper. 

Soak  bread  in  cold  water  until  soft,  press  out  all  water. 
Add  sausage  meat,  seasonings,  melted  butter  and  eggs  well  beaten. 
If  sausage  meat  is  too  fat  the  butter  can  be  omitted  or  chopped 
pork  may  be  substituted.  If  one  objects  to  pork  in  any  form,  use 
1/2  cup  butter  and  an  extra  cup  of  crumbs. 

Mrs.  Amelia  R.  Woodall. 

POULTRY  STUFFING  NO  2. 

1  cup  coarse  cracker  crumbs.        14  cup  butter. 
14  tbls.  salt.  1/3  cup  milk. 
Dash  pepper. 

This  will  fill  a  chicken  of  3  or  4  pounds.  Sage,  summer  savory 
or  parsley  may  be  added  if  liked. 

Mrs.  M.  Oliver. 

CHICKEN  DRESSING. 

2  loaves  bread.  4  eggs  (well  beaten). 
1  cup  milk.                                        2  tbls.  butter. 

1/2  cup  celery  (chopped  fine).         1  large  onion  (chopped  fine). 
1  cup  fresh  corn  meal   (scald-     i/?  t-spoon  black  pepper, 
ed). 
Place  above  mixture  in  pan  (bread  crumbled)  and  pour  over  it 
the  chicken  broth,  which  has  been  cooled.     Mix  thoroughly  to  right 
consistency.     Bake  and  serve  with  chicken. 

Mrs.  Joseph  M.  Wusthoff, 
Secretary  Pioneer  Society. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING.    NO  1. 
Breast  of  chicken.  3  cups  milk. 

1/2  cup  flour.  14  grated  onion. 

1  minced  green  pepper.  I14  cups  mushrooms. 

Salt.  Paprika, 

Place  above  ingedients  in  sauce  pan;  stir  until  flour  is  dis- 
solved and  bring  to  boil.  Add  chicken  diced,  parboiled  mushrooms 
and  seasonings.      Cook  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  Harry  L.  Wills. 


142  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


FRIED  CHICKEN  (SOUTHERN  STYLE). 

Dress  a  young  chicken  weighing  1  14  to  2  pounds.  Cut  in 
pieces  and  wash  in  cold  water.  Drain  and  set  in  ice  box  or 
cool  place  from  six  to  twelve  hours.  When  ready  to  cook,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Roll  each  piece  of  chicken  in  flour  until  covered 
nicely.  Put  in  hot  fat  over  moderate  fire ;  turn  once  or  twice  until 
a  golden  brown.  Place  chicken  on  platter,  drain  off  fat,  leaving 
about  two  tbls.  Into  this  sprinkle  1  tbls.  flour.  Let  brown,  then 
add  1  cup  of  boiling  water  (with  little  milk  added),  stirring  con- 
stantly. Cook  3  or  4  minutes,  adding  a  little  salt.  Can  be  poured 
over  chicken,  but  is  usually  put  in  a  separate  dish  and  served  on 
rice  cooked  so  each  grain  is  separate. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle. 

CHICKEN  PIE   (Southern  Style). 

1  chicken.  2  cups  milk. 

2  cups  broth.  1/2  cup  butter. 

1/3  t-spoon  black  pepper.  2  level  t-spoons  salt. 

Clean  and  dress  young  chicken  from  1  to  1  1/2  lbs.  Cut  in 
pieces,  wash  in  cold  water,  drain  and  set  in  cool  place  a  few  hours. 
Cook  chicken  in  boiling  water  until  tender.  There  should  be  about 
2  cups  of  broth  when  chicken  is  cooked.  Make  rich  biscuit  dough. 
Place  1/2  chicken  in  pan,  pour  in  broth.  Roll  dough  for  dumplings 
very  thin,  cutting  in  1  inch  strips,  tear  off  in  2  inch  lengths.  Place 
layer  over  chicken,  adding  some  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Place 
over  this  balance  of  chicken,  another  layer  of  dumplings,  butter, 
salt  and  pepper.  Roll  top  crust.  Cut  in  three  strips.  Place  over 
top  of  pie.  Moisten  all  over  with  about  1/4  cup  milk,  placing  small 
pieces  of  butter  at  intervals.  Cook  pie  in  moderately  hot  oven 
1/2  hour  until  crust  is  rich  golden  brown.  Raise  crust  and  pour  in 
remainder  of  milk.     Cook  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  McMillan, 

Palmetto,  Ga. 

MY  MOTHER'S  CHICKEN  POT  PIE. 

Dumplings. 

1  tbls.  butter.  1  pt.  pastry  flour. 

3  level   t-spoons   Royal   baking     Salt. 

powder.  Milk. 

Sift  baking  powder  into  flour,  cut  butter  into  flour — salt  and 
add  enough  milk  for  soft  dough.  Form  into  balls  a  little  larger 
than  a  walnut  and  drop  into  the  gravy  which  is  not  to  be  thickened. 

Place  1/2  cup  butter  or  substitute  in  iron  pot  and  let  brown 
slightly,  then  drop  in  the  parts  of  a  young  hen  piece  by  piece.  After 
the  meat  is  well  soaked  in  the  butter,  pour  in  boiling  water  to  cover, 
simmering  gently  until  the  meat  will  almost  drop  from  the  bones. 
Salt  and  pepper  according  to  taste.  Twenty  minutes  before  serving 
take  up  the  meat  and  place  in  center  of  platter  where  it  will  keep 


POULTRY  AND   GAME  143 

warm,  then  drop  dumplings  into  the  gravy,  close  tight  and  boil  well 
for  20  minutes.  Serve  dumplings  around  the  meat,  covered  with 
a  rich  golden  brown  gravy. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Marion  Camp, 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING.    NO.  2. 
2  tbls.  flour.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  cup  mushrooms.  1  tbls.  chopped  green  pepper. 

1  tbls.  butter.  3  chopped  pimentos. 

1  pt.  cream.  3  cups  minced  chicken. 

'I4  cup  butter.  3  egg  yolks. 

Cook  flour,  mushrooms,  butter,  salt,  green  pepper,  pimentos 
until  frothy,  add  cream  and  stir  until  thick  over  hot  water.  Add 
chicken  and  butter  and  beaten  egg  yolks.  Serve  in  pastry  shells. 
An  excellent  party  dish, 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Plage. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN. 

1  chicken.  •  3  stalks  of  celery. 

1  onion  (diced).  6  sprigs  of  parsley. 

1  hard  boiled  egg.  2  tbls.  gelatine. 

Stew  a  full  grown  fowl  until  very  tender,  putting  it  on  in  cold 
water  with  the  onion,  celery  (cut  up)  and  half  of  the  parsley.  Let 
come  to  a  boil  slowly  and  cook  until  the  meat  slips  from  bones. 
Remove  meat  from  stock  and  cut  in  pieces.  Strain  2  cups  of 
stock  and  add  the  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  white  pepper.  Arrange  pieces  of  chicken 
in  bottom  of  brick  shape  pan,  pour  in  gravy  with  part  of  the  jelly 
stock,  put  in  more  chicken  alternating  until  mold  is  full.  Set  in 
cool  place  until  perfectly  firm.  Turn  out,  serve  with  balance  parsley 
and  egg  sliced  as  garnish. 

Mrs.  Fred  J.  White. 
PRESSED  CHICKEN. 
1  chicken.       .  1  t-spoons  grated  onion. 

1/2  box  gelatine.  1  t-spoon  finely  minced  parsley. 

Boil  a  two  or  three  pound  chicken  until  tender.  Pick  to  pieces. 
Pour  enough  boiled  water  over  gelatine  to  melt.  Then  mix  with 
the  chicken.  Add  the  grated  onion  and  minced  parslev,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Put  in  mold.  Press  closely  and  let 
stand  until  ready  for  use.      Serve  with  cranberry  sauce. 

Frances  Kersey. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Clean  and  dress  young  chicken  about  grown;  cut  down  the 
back,  flatten  out;  dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 

Add  2  cups  boiling  water,  place  in  oven  and  cook  till  done; 
turning  several  times,  browning  on  all  sides.  Keep  sufficient  water 
in  pan  for  gravy — about  1  cup  full.  When  nearly  done,  thicken  by 
adding  1  level  teaspoonful  flour  and  1  tbls.  of  milk  (beaten 
until  smooth)  to  gravy.     Cook  a  few  minutes  and  serve  with  rice, 


144  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK  BOOK 


which  should  be  cooked  so  every  grain  stands  separately.  From  one 
to  one  and  a  half  hours  will  be  required  to  cook  a  good  sized  chicken. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  Carlisle. 

CHICKEN  PILAU. 
1  hen.  2  cups  water. 

1  t-spoon  peppercorns.  1  cup  rice. 

Steam  hen  in  water  (salted  to  taste)  till  tender,  remove,  add 
rice  to  liquor  and  steam  till  done.  Brown  hen  in  oven  and  serve  on 
platter  surrounded  with  rice. 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Campbell. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW  (VIRGINIA). 
Use  one  of  three  meats — chicken,  lamb,  or  squirrel.  If  chicken 
is  used  parboil,  cut  up  as  for  frying ;  put  in  pot  and  cover  with  cold 
water.  To  one,  three  or  four  pound  hen ;  add  one  sliced  onion,  one 
thick  slice  boiling  meat,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  black  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Cook  chicken  until  meat  leaves  the  bones,  adding 
water  as  the  first  water  boils  away.  6  ears  fresh  scraped  corn  or 
1  can  corn.  1  quart  tomatoes,  1/2  pound  butter.  Let  cook  until 
corn  and  tomatoes  are  done.  Before  serving  add  two  cups  stale 
light  bread  crumbs  and  a  few  slices  of  lemon.  Accompany  this 
dish  with  stuffed  baked  peppers,  or  sliced  peppers,  cucumbers,  and 
onions. 

Mrs.  Edward  H.  Barnes. 

FRICASSEE  CHICKEN. 
1  chicken.  2  egg  yolks. 

3  tbls.  flour.  1  tbls.  butter. 

1  tbls.  salt.  1/2  cup  celery,  cut  fine. 
Clean,  dress  and  cut  a  young  chicken  in  parts.     Put  in  stew 

pan  with  just  enough  water  to  cover.  Place  lid  on  pan,  let 
heat  slowly  until  it  boils.  Then  stew  until  tender.  Mix  flour  with 
milk,  add  a  dash  of  pepper  and  thicken  gravy  in  which  the  chicken 
was  cooked.  The  eggs  should  be  added  to  a  little  of  the  gravy  and 
well  blended  before  being  put  into  hot  gravy.  The  celery  and  salt 
should  be  boiled  with  the  chicken. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Cox. 

CHICKEN  SPAGHETTI. 

2  lb.  chicken.  IV2  lbs.  spaghetti. 

Boil  chicken  until  tender,  remove  meat  from  bones  and  chop 
fine.     Boil  spaghetti  in  chicken  broth  until  broth  is  absorbed. 

DRESSING. 
1  small  can  tomatoes.  2  onions  cut  fine. 

1  t-spoon  celery  salt.  Vs  t-spoon  red  pepper. 

Salt  to  taste.  1  tbls  butter. 

Boil  tomatoes  until  very  tender,  mash  thru  sieve,  add  above 


POULTRY  AND   GAME  145 


dressing  ingredients,  then  chicken;  pour  spaghetti  over  this,  mix 
well,  put  in  casserole ;  cover  with  grated  cheese.     Bake  brown. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Mudd,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

1  chicken.  1  cup  cream. 

2  ounces  melted  butter.  2  eggs. 

2  ounces  flour.  1  t-spoon  chopped  parsley. 
Boil  chicken  till  tender.      Cool  and  mince.      Boil  the  butter, 

flour  and  cream  with  1  cup  of  liquor  the  chicken  was  boiled  in,  two 
minutes.  Mix  with  the  finely  minced  chicken,  adding  a  sprinkle 
of  red  pepper.  Salt  to  taste.  Then  cool  and  mold.  Roll  in  egg 
and  bread  crumbs  and  saute  a  delicate  brown. 

Miss  Clara  Cheshire. 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Prepare  duck  for  roasting  and  use  the  following  plain  filling. 

3  cups  bread  crumbs.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
1/2  t-spoon  each  of  thyme  and     1  onion. 

sage. 
Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  lightly  with  cold  water.     Cut  onion  fine. 
Fry  together  quickly  in  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.      Then  add  salt, 
pepper  and  herbs.     Mix  well  (1  cup  of  mashed  potatoes  can  be  sub- 
stituted for  one  of  crumbs.) 

Duck  requires  more  cooking  than  turkey  or  chicken  and  needs 
plenty  of  water  in  the  pan  to  start  with,  if  an  open  pan  is  used. 

Mrs.  Robert  Paden. 

GAME. 

VENISON. 

Roast  venison  is  best  to  be  thoroughly  larded,  using  half  a 
pound  of  pork  to  a  leg  or  saddle  weighing  eight  to  ten  pounds.  Cut 
the  flanks  from  saddle  and  trim  the  haunch  to  good  shape. 

Roast  according  to  general  directions,  basting  at  the  end  of 
the  first  five  minutes,  and  every  fifteen  minutes  after.  It  is  very 
nice  to  use  claret  instead  of  the  dripping  of  the  pan.  An  hour  and 
a  quarter  will  cook  it  very  rare.  For  most  people  an  hour  and  three 
quarters  will  be  none  too  much.  Make  a  good  gravy  from  the  drip- 
pings in  the  pan,  adding  stock  made  from  bits  trimmed  away  before 
roasting. 

Currant  jelly  is  usually  served  with  it,  but  barberry,  or  wild 
plum  jelly  is  equally  as  good.  Mrs.  Beulah  Bates. 

VENISON  STEAKS. 
Venison  steaks  are  prepared  and  served  like  beef  steaks,  cut- 
ting them  only  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick.     Slices  of  cold 
roast  venison  are  extremely  nice  when  reheated  in  brown  or  curry 
sauce.  Mrs.  Anice  Carlton. 


146  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


TO  COOK  BIRDS. 

Most  game  birds  are  best  broiled,  but  the  larger  ones  are  fine 
stuffed  with  plain  filling  and  baked. 

TO  SAUTE  BIRDS— Dip  in  lemon  juice  before  putting  into 
hot  fat. 

REED  BIRDS — Should  be  fried  in  deep  fat  and  served  on 
toast. 

Mrs.  K.  G.  Hardin. 

RABBITS. 

After  rabbits  are  cleaned  and  cut  in  parts  they  should  soak  in 
cold  salted  water  an  hour  before  being  cooked. 

SAUTE  RABBIT. 

1  rabbit.  1  tbls.  flour. 

Salt.  Pepper, 

1  cup  hot  water.  1/2  cup  cold  water. 

Wipe  the  rabbit  dry  and  fry  it  brown.  Then  nearly  cover  with 
hot  water  and  simmer  (with  lid  over)  for  fifteen  minutes.  Mix 
flour  with  cold  water  to  thicken  gravy.      Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Cresse. 


xMEATS. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Manry,  Chairman. 

To  obtain  a  tender  roast,  a  steak,  or  chops,  meat  should  be 
cooked  at  a  low  temperature  after  the  first  few  minutes,  in  a  cov- 
ered roaster — this  saves  the  flavor,  does  away  with  basting,  and 
gives  a  tender  dish.  Water  should  never  be  added  to  the  tender  cuts 
while  cooking,  if  cooked  in  this  way. 

Miss  Mary  P.  Means. 

CASSEROLE  OF  RICE  AND  MEAT. 


2  cups  cooked  meat  (ground), 

1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  beaten  egg. 

Vi  cup  fine  bread  crumbs. 

4  cups  cooked  rice. 


1  tbls.  chopped  parsley  or  bell 

pepper. 
14  t-spoon  pepper. 
14  t-spoon  onion  juice. 


MEAT  STOCK. 
Mix  first  7  ingredients.     Line  buttered  casserole  with  3  cups 
rice,  fill  with  meat  mixture,  add  enough  meat  stock  to  moisten  mix- 
ture well,  and  cover  with  remainder  of  rice.      Place  top  on  cas- 
serole and  cook  45  minutes.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Miss  Clara  Lee  Cone, 
Director  Home  Economics,  Girls  High  School. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

1  pimento. 

3  tbls  Worcester  sauce. 

12  saltine  crackers   (crushed). 


lbs.  veal, 
tbls.  Rosemary, 
tbls.  of  Thyme, 
onion. 


1  t-spoon  black  pepper. 


cup  veal  stock, 
tbls.  gelatine, 
eggs  hard  boiled, 
onion. 


1  t-spoon  paprika. 
1  tbls.  salt. 
1/4  lb.  butter. 

Boil  veal  until  tender,  add  onion,  rosemary  and  thyme. 


Drain, 


A    iHind    Shank 
Soup   Bone 

B     Round 

Shank    and    Rump    off 
Dried    Beef 
Hamburger    Steak 
Round    Steak 

C     Rump 

Roast 
Corned    Beef 

1)     Loin 

Sirloin    Steak 
Porterhouse    Steak 
Club   Steak 
Beef   Tenderloin 

E-Flank 

l-'lank   Steak 
Hamburger  Steak 
Corned    Beef 

I  Rib 

Rib    Roast 

G     Plate 

Navel    End 

Short   Ribs 
Corned   Beef 
Soup    Meat 

II  Chuck 

Shoulder   Steak 
Shoulder    Roast 
Pot    Roast 
Stews 

I     Brisket 

Corned    Beef 
Soup  Meat 
Pot    Roast 

J     Fore  Shank 

Soup   Bone 


MEATS    AND    SAUCES  149 


run  through  meat  grinder ;  mix  well  the  stock,  pepper,  salt,  paprika, 
butter,  Worcester  and  crackers.  Add  gelatine  which  has  been 
previously  added  to  i/o  cup  cold  water  and  dissolved  over  hot  water. 
Cut  pimento  into  small  pieces,  slice  eggs  and  sprinkle  pimento  over 
them,  pack  mold  alternating  with  meat  and  eggs.  Put  in  cool  place 
until  congealed,  then  serve. 

Mrs.  D.  J.  Jones. 

MELMORE  BEEF  EN  CASSEROLE. 
1  lb.  cooked  veal  or  beef.  I  qt.  cold  water. 

1  bay  leaf.  4  hard  boiled  eggs. 

4  cloves.  1  cup  fine  bread  crumbs, 

2  t-spoon  salt.  5  tbls.  butter. 
Cayenne  (taste).  5  tbls.  flour. 

Put  meat  in  saucepan ;  add  seasoning  and  water ;  put  over  fire*, 
cook  till  well  done,  keeping  covered  all  the  time.  Allow  meat  to  cool 
in  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  cooked.  Grind  meat  in  meat  choppei 
(there  will  be  about  three  cups)  and  reserve  liquid.  For  each  cup 
of  meat  make  a  half-cup  of  white  sauce  using  the  meat  stock  for 
the  liquid  instead  of  milk.  Use  three  tbls.  of  the  butter  with  two  of 
flour  for  sauce.  1  cup  milk.  Strain  out  bay  leaf,  and  use  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  liquid  if  you  have  three  cups  of  meat.  Prepare 
the  buttered  crumbs  by  pouring  the  extra  two  tbls.  of  butter  over 
them  and  mixing  thoroughly  with  a  fork.  Put  material  in  a  but- 
tered earthen  casserole,  a  layer  of  meat,  then  sliced  eggs,  then  sauce. 
Make  in  two  layers  and  cover  with  the  crumbs.  Cook  with  cover  on 
dish  in  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes,  remove  cover,  and 
brown,  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Matthews. 

BACON  AND  LIVER. 

1  lb.  calf  liver.  Six  bacon  slices. 

1  onion.  Pepper. 

Salt. 

Have  liver  sliced  about  1/2  i^ich  thick,  remove  skin  and  wipe 
with  damp  cloth;  dip  liver  in  flour  which  has  been  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Broil  bacon  crisp,  put  liver  in  bacon  grease  and 
cook  turning  on  both  sides  for  about  12  or  15  mins.  Chop  fine  1 
onion  and  fry  a  golden  grown  in  fat  that  liver  was  cooked  in.  Place 
liver  on  dish,  pour  over  onions,  garnish  with  bacon  and  parsley. 

Mrs.  N.  C.  Booker. 

Norfolk,  Va. 

SWISS  STEAK. 
Select  fresh  round  steak  at  least  1  inch  thick  (thicker  if  de- 
sired) .  Beat  in  both  sides  all  flour  it  will  take.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Brown  both  sides  quickly  in  about  1  tbls.  fat  in  iron  skillet, 
add  boiling  water  cover  closely.  Reduce  heat,  cook  from  one  to 
two  hours.  Steak  may  be  covered  with  onions,  mushrooms,  or 
served  with  tomato  sauce. 
,  Mrs.  Andrew  P.  Stewart,  Jr. 


MEATS    AND    SAUCES  151 


BEEF  STEAK  AND  OYSTERS. 

1  qt.  oysters. 
3  lbs.  steak.  2  tbls.  butter. 

Broil  the  steak  without  salt  as  quickly  as  possible,  placing  it 
close  to  a  very  hot  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  is  brown  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  place  on  a  hot  platter,  and  pour  over  the  drained  oys- 
ters ;  lay  on  these  butter,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Place  the  platter  in  a 
very  hot  oven,  until  the  oysters  are  done,  which  will  be  when  their 
edges  curl,  serve  hot  at  once. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 
Chairman  Study  Classes. 

CALF  BRAINS. 

1  set  brains.  1  t-spoon  lemon  juice. 

2  hard  boiled  eggs.  1  tbls.  catsup. 

Soak  brains  a  few  minutes  in  salt  water,  remove  outside  mem- 
brane, wash  and  parboil  in  cup  of  water  10  minutes.  Cut  in  pieces, 
add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  lemon  juice,  catsup  and  eggs  cut  fine. 
Place  in  baking  dish,  sprinkle  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  dot  with 
small  pieces  of  butter.  Cook  in  moderate  oven  until  brown.  Serve 
immediately  with  buttered  toast  and  thin  slices  of  dill  pickles;  or 
brains  may  be  prepared  for  cooking  as  above ;  parboil  about  20  mins. 
or  until  all  water  is  absorbed.  Cut  up  very  fine,  add  3  well  beaten 
eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  stir  well  together ;  cook  about  2  mins. 
Serve  on  rounds  of  toast ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle. 

RICE  AND  MEAT  MOLD. 
2  cups  cold  boiled  rice.  1  tbls.  chopped  parsley. 

1  t-spoon  onion  juice.  1/2  lb.  cold  meat,  minced. 

Grease  a  plain  mold  and  line  it  throughout  with  rice  Mince  and 
season  the  meat,  add  onion  and  parsley,  fill  the  mold,  packing  closely. 
Cover  with  more  rice  and  steam  3/4  hour.  Turn  out  and  cover 
completely  with  gravy,  tomato  sauce  or  oyster  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Snelgrove. 

PORK  CHOPS. 
Purchase  as  many  chops  as  desired,  have  frying  pan  hot,  add  1 
tbls.  lard,  flour  chops  into  which  salt  and  pepper  has  been  added 
to  taste,  place  in  hot  fat  and  fry  about  twelve  or  fifteen  mins.    Gar- 
nish with  parsley. 

Mrs.  Thomas  H.  Pitts. 

CHOP  SUEY. 
1  lb.  pork,  beef  or  veal.  Salt. 

1  cup  onions.  2  tbls.  molasses. 

1  cup  celery.  1  t-spoon  paprika. 

Use  choice  meat  and  to  each  pound  add  onions,  celery  and 
molasses.  Cut  up  meat,  sear  in  lard  and  add  paprika.  Cover  with 
water  and  cook  until  done.      Serve  with  Kik  Kermans  Soy  Sauce. 

Mrs.  George  A.  Clayton. 


MEATS    AND    SAUCES  153 


MEAT  PIE. 

1  cup  diced  cold  meat.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

2  cups  diced  boiled  potatoes.  1/2  t-spoon  pepper, 

1  can  tomatoes.  2  tbls.  butter  or  stock. 

Line  sides  only  of  a  baking  dish  with  good  pie  pastry.  Be- 
ginning with  meat  at  bottom,  alternate  with  layers  of  meat,  pota- 
toes, tomatoes  and  seasoning  to  the  top  of  the  pan.  Cover  with 
pie  crust,  add  enough  hot  water  to  cook  thoroughly  but  without 
becoming  dry.  Bake  until  done  about  3/4  hour.  It  will  make 
its  own  gravy.     One  or  two  onions  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Alonzo  Richardson, 
State  Chairman  Federated  Women's  Club, 
Vice-President  Atlanta  Woman's  Club. 

BROILED  TENDERLOIN,  SIRLOIN  OR  PORTERHOUSE 

STEAK. 

Select  steak  from  1  to  1  1/2  ^^ch  thick  with  fresh,  juicy  ap- 
pearance ;  the  fat  a  creamy  white.  Wipe  dry,  cut  a  few  small  pieces 
of  fat  from  steak  and  dot  over  it.  Place  meat  on  broiler  in  pan 
and  put  under  gas  flame.  Sear  each  side  quickly.  This  will  re- 
tain juices.  Reduce  heat  to  finish  cooking,  rare  or  well  done  as 
liked.  Place  on  warm  platter  with  melted  butter  in  it,  season  with 
salt  on  both  sides.  Add  2  tbls.  or  more  of  hot  water  to  drippings  for 
gravy,  stir  well  and  pour  over  steak.  Serve  immediately  with 
steamed  rice  so  grains  stand  separately.  Garnish  with  potato 
chips, 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle. 

POT  ROAST. 

Get  a  nice  5  lb.  roast  either  rump  or  a  number  7  cut,  wipe  off 
with  a  damp  cloth,  cut  off  some  suet  and  try  out.  Place  roast  in  pot, 
sear  on  all  sides,  (in  suet) ,  then  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook 
over  a  very  low  gas  flame  until  tender.  Add  no  water  as  this 
method  of  cooking  with  lid  on  pot  will  make  its  own  gravy.  Pour 
over  1  can  tomatoes,  cook  for  15  mins.  Lift  roast  from  pot;  add 
flour  enough  to  thicken  gravy.  Brown  same,  then  add  cold  water 
enough  to  make  sufficient  gravy;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Mrs.  Jesse  M.  Manry. 

BAKED  CORNFIELD  HAM. 

1  ham.  1/,  cup  sugar. 

1/2  cup  cracker  crumbs.  Cloves. 

%  cup  of  syrup.  II/2  pt.  ginger  ale. 

Select  ham  with  care  (Cornfield  Brand)  preferred  soak  over 
night  in  cold  water.  Before  cooking  scrub  with  stiff  brush.  Bake 
in  3  inches  of  water,  to  which  syrup  has  been  added.  Use  covered 
roaster,  bake  10  to  14  lbs,  ham  3  to  31/2  hours.  After  ham  is 
thoroughly  done,  remove  skin  and  roll  in  mixture  of  sugar  and 


MEATS    AND    SAUCES  155 


cracker  crumbs.     Stick  whole  cloves  in  ham,  place  in  oven  to  brown, 
while  browning  baste  with  IV2  pt.  bottle  ginger  ale. 

Mrs.  Norman  Sharp, 
Chairman  Market  Committee. 

LEG  OF  LAMB  ROAST. 

1/?  can  tomatoes.  1  tbls.  prepared  mustard. 

-      2"tbls.  vinegar.  1  large  onion  (chopped  fme). 

1/2  bottle  catsup.  1  leg  of  lamb. 

Wash  roast  thoroughly  in  soda  water  ( 1/2  t-spoon  soda  to  1  gal- 
lon of  water).  Salt  and  pepper  and  add  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Sift 
a  little  flour  over  top  of  roast,  spread  a  little  butter  on  this  to  brown 
the  flour.  Place  meat  in  covered  roaster  and  add  other  ingredients. 
Place  on  a  round  rack  in  moderate  oven  and  cook  3i/>  hours.  Baste 
3  or  4  times. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Merritt. 

CORN  BEEF  HASH  A  LA  BELL. 
1  can  corn  beef  hash.  1/3  t-spoon  each  salt  and  pepper 

1  onion.  1  green  bell  pepper. 

1  small  can  tomatoes.  3  slices  bread. 

Add  to  beef,  tomatoes,  onions  and  green  pepper  well  minced. 
Then  bread,  salt  and  pepper,  mix  together  well,  bake  for  1  hour  in 
hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Fanny  Bell. 
Lynchburg,  Va. 

BROILED  MEAT  CAKES. 
1  lb.  top  side  round  steak.  2  slices  bread. 

1  egg.  3  tbls.  milk. 

1/3  t-spoon  butter.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Run  steak  through  food-chopper  with  little  suet,  add  egg,  salt, 
pepper,  milk  and  bread  crumbled  fine.  Work  all  together  well. 
Make  into  small  cakes,  place  on  hot  greased  griddle  and  brown  on 
both  sides,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  them.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Mrs.  Jesse  M.  Manry. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

1  pt.  stewed  tomatoes.  2  t-spoons  salt. 
14,  cup  butter  or  beef  drippings.     1/0  t-spoon  pepper. 

2  lbs.  round  beef.  4  cloves. 

5  medium  sized  onions.  2  tbls.  flour. 

Slice  onions  and  cook  until  yellowed  in  the  fat.  Add  cloves, 
and  beef  cut  into  cubes  and  fry  until  brown.  Add  pt.  of  boiling 
water,  the  tomatoes,  seasoning,  and  simmer  for  hour  and  half. 
When  ready  to  serve,  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  moistened  in  a 
little  cold  water. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 


156  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK  BOOK 


BOULLETS. 

(CREOLE  DISH) 

1  lb.  round  steak  or  veal. 

1  large  onion. 

3  tbls.  lard. 

1  egg. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

1  tbls.  water. 

2  sprigs  parsley, 

Tomato  sauce. 

Beat  beef  till  tender,  cut  into  pieces  2  inches  square.    Rub  salt 
and  pepper  well  into  meat,  dip  into  egg  batter  to  which  water  has  "^ 
been  added,  then  into  grated  crumbs.      Fry  till  nicely  browned. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Pratt, 
Ex-Regent  Joseph  Habersham  Chapter  D.  A.  R. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 
(For  use  on  roast  beef) . 

18  large  ripe  tomatoes.  1  grated  nutmeg. 

4  large  onions.  1  t-spoon  ground  cloves. 

4  large  green,  sweet  peppers.         2  t-spoon  ground  allspice. 

4  small  hot,  green  peppers.  1  t-spoon  ground  ginger. 

4  tbls.  salt.  1  t-spoon  black  pepper. 

4  tbls.  sugar.  1  qt.  good  apple  vinegar. 

Scald,  peel  tomatoes,  onions  and  pepper  and  drain.  Put  thru 
meat  chopper  saving  all  juices.  Put  in  large  pan  on  stove  and  when 
thoroughly  hot,  lower  heat,  add  spices,  sugar  and  salt.  Boil  gently 
stirring  almost  constantly,  (as  mixture  burns  easily),  for  one  hour. 
Then  add  vinegar  and  boil  5  minutes.  Fill  large  mouth  bottle  or 
small  fruit  jars,  cover  tightly. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 

MINT  SAUCE  FOR  LAMB. 
2  tbls.  mint.  i/_>  cup  vinegar. 

1  tbls.  sugar.  2  tbls.  water. 

Chop  mint  fine,  mix  all  ingredients,  cook  together  a  few  mins., 
and  allow  it  to  cool.     Add  to  lamb  gravy  or  serve  separately. 

Mrs.  Jesse  M.  Manry. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  NO.  1. 

2  tbls.  butter.  Va  t-spoon  salt. 

2  tbls.  flour.  l/s  t-spoon  pepper. 

1  cup  tomato  juice. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  tomato  juice  slowly. 
Cook  about  ten  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 

Miss  Clara  Lee  Cone, 
Director  Home  Economics,  Girls  High  School. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  NO.  2. 
1  can  tomatoes.  1  bell  pepper. 

1  onion.  Dash  Worcester  sauce. 

1/2  t-spoon  each  salt  and  pepper. 


MEATS   AND    SAUCES  157 


Cook  tomatoes,  salt,  pepper,  onion,  bell  pepper  (free  of  seeds) 
until  it  thickens.  Add  sauce.  This  sauce  is  delicious  over  roast  beef, 
pork  or  stuffed  peppers. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Boardman. 

VIRGINIA  SAUCE. 
1  cup.  mayonnaise.  2  tbls.  mixed  chow-chow  pickle. 

1  t-spoon  tomato  catsup. 

Blend  ingredients  and  serve  with  fried  soft  crabs.  This 
recipe  is  a  famous  one  in  Virginia. 

Mrs.  W.  L.  Northern. 

Norfolk,  Va. 

TARTAR  SAUCE. 
1  cup  mayonnaise.  2  t-spoons  parsley. 

4  small  cucumber  pickles  6  chopped  olives, 

(sour).  1/2  t-spoon  capers. 

1/2  medium  sized  onion. 

Cut  up  last  five  ingredients  very  fine  and  stir  into  the  mayon- 
naise.     Serve  on  meat. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Massenburg. 

MINT  SAUCE. 
Bunch  of  mint.  1/3  cup  vinegar. 

1/2  cup  boiling  water.  Pinch  of  sugar. 

Pinch  of  salt.  Cayenne  pepper. 

Bruise  a  bunch  of  mint.  Pour  over  it  1/2  cup  of  boiling  water 
Ift  stand  ten  minutes,  then  add  1/3  cup  vinegar,  pinch  of  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper.     Serve  with  roast  lamb. 

Mrs.  W.  L.  Northern. 

Norfolk,  Va. 


VEGETABLES. 

Mrs,  Ernest  Covington,  Chairman. 

Some  vegetables  should  be  cooked  a  long  time,  such  as  carrots, 
beets,  parsnips,  etc.,  but  vegetables  like  cauliflower  and  cabbage  re- 
quire only  short  cooking.  Cabbage  should  never  be  boiled  longer 
than  25  minutes.  All  vegetables  should  be  put  on  in  boiling  salted 
water.  Vegetables  are  more  easily  digested  when  served  hot  with 
butter,  sauces,  or  meat,  than  when  served  cold  with  vinegar. 

Miss  Mary  P.  Means. 


ASPARAGUS 
3  eggs  beaten  light  with  pepper 

and  salt. 
2  cups  grated  bread  crumbs. 


TIMBALES. 
2  cups  milk. 
1  can  of  asparagus. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg,  (melted), 


Put  mixture  in  buttered  timbale  molds,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water 
and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  cream  sauce  to  which  chop- 
ped mushrooms  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Sommerfield. 


1  doz.  ears  of  corn. 
3  eggs. 

1  pt.  of  milk 

2  tbls.  butter. 
Cut  corn  off  cob. 

then  milk  and  corn. 

liquid  is  needed  add  a  little  water 

moderate  oven  for  about  20  minutes 


CORN  PUDDING. 

2  tbls.  sugar. 
1/2  t-spoon  salt. 
Pinch  of  black  pepper. 


Beat  eggs  until  light,  add  sugar,  salt,  pepper, 

Have  pudding  well  mixed,  and  if  any  more 

Dot  with  butter  and  bake  in 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Manry. 


ASPARAGUS  WITH  EGGS. 
2  bunches  asparagus.  l^  t-spoon  salt. 

4  egg.  Vs  t-spoon  pepper. 

2  tbls.  mglted  butter. 

Cook  asparagus,  cut  off  tender  tops  and  lay  them  on  buttered 
pie  dish,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter.   Beat  eggs 


VEGETABLES  159 


just  enough  to  break  the  yolks,  pour  over  the  asparagus  and  bake 
eight  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  with  slices  of  boiled  ham. 

Mrs.  Roger  Brown. 

SPINACH  WITH  EGG.     (Something  Different). 
i/>  peck  spinach.  2  eggs. 

2"tbls.  butter.  1  t-spoon  mayonnaise. 

1  t-spoon  pickle.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Wash  spinach  well  in  vessel  of  water.  Remove ;  put  into  about 
3  qts.  of  boiling  water  and  cook  30  minutes.  Drain  in  colander, 
cut  up  fine,  adding  salt  and  pepper;  pour  butter  (melted)  over  it. 
Have  ready  eggs  hard  boiled ;  mash  yolks  and  add  mayonnaise,  a  few 
drops  vinegar  and  cucumber  pickle  cut  fine.  Sprinkle  over  top  of 
spinach.  Garnish  with  egg  cut  into  rings.  This  is  nice  served 
with  thin  slices  of  cold  beef  tongue. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle. 

POTATO  SURPRISE. 

Mold  mashed  potatoes  (seasoned)  into  balls;  with  spoon  form 
cavity  in  end  large  enough  for  medium  size  oyster.  Place  oyster  in 
cavity,  cover  with  potato,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs. 
Fry  in  deep  fat.  Cold  minced  or  ground  meat  may  be  substituted 
for  oysters.     Serve  with  tartar  sauce. 

Mrs.  Tull  C.  Waters. 

STUFFED  BAKED  TOMATOES. 

12  ripe  tomatoes.  Salt,  pepper  and  sugar. 

1  small  head  of  cabbage.  1  cup  of  sweet  milk. 

1  small  onion.  Small  piece  of  butter. 

Bread  crumbs. 

From  the  blossom  end  of  a  dozen  smooth  ripe  tomatoes  cut  a 
thin  slice,  and  with  small  spoon  scoop  out  the  pulp  without  breaking 
the  skin  surrounding  it.  Chop  a  small  head  of  cabbage  and  a  small 
onion  finely ;  mix  the  fine  bread  crumbs  and  the  pulp ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar  and  add  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  or  milk ; 
when  all  is  well  mixed  fill  tomato  shells ;  place  in  baking  dish, 
cut-end  up,  and  put  just  enough  water  in  the  pan  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing; drop  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each  tomato,  and  bake  half  hour 
or  so.     Place  another  bit  of  butter  on  each  and  serve  in  same  dish. 

Mrs.  F.  L.  Gillette. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 
Cover  bottom  of  baking  dish  with  bread  crumbs  or  crushed 
crackers.  Place  on  this  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  a  little  sugar  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Continue  to 
add  alternate  layers  of  crumbs  and  tomatoes,  seasoning  each  time, 
until  the  dish  is  full.  Sprinkle  crumbs  on  top,  dot  with  butter, 
slightly  moistened  with  water.    Bake  about  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  A.  R.  Brittain. 


160  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

1  qt.  sliced  raw  potatoes.  3  tbls.  flour. 

2  cups  scalded  milk.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

4  tbls.  butter.  14  t-spoon  pepper. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  layer  of  sliced 
potatoes.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  pieces  of  butter 
and  dredge  with  flour.  Repeat  until  the  materials  are  used.  Pour 
over  all  the  scalded  milk  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  from  45  to  50 
minutes. 

Miss  E.  Hunt. 

POTATO  PUFF. 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes.  1/2  cup  scalded  milk. 

2  tbls  melted  butter.  I/2  t-spoon  salt. 

2  eggs. 

Stir  melted  butter  in  potato,  beat  to  a  white  cream;  add  eggs 
beaten  very  light,  then  milk  and  seasonings.  Bake  in  deep  buttered 
dish  in  quick  oven,  for  20  minutes  or  until  brown. 

Souffle — Use  4  eggs,  beat  yolks  and  whites  separately  until 
stiff;  use  seasonings  and  butter  as  given  above.  Fold  in  yolks  and 
lastly  whites. 

Mrs.  M.  B.  Horton. 

SPANISH  PEPPERS. 
Remove  seeds  from  6  green  peppers.  Cut  three  cups  corn 
(thin).  Chop  fine  one  onion  and  the  tops  of  the  peppers  and  fry 
until  yellow  in  butter,  with  2  ripe  tomatoes  chopped  fine:  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  add  corn  and  let  get  hot  thru  (add  a  little 
hamburg  if  you  have  it)  ;  place  mixture  in  peppers  after  they  have 
been  brought  to  a  boil  in  water.  Cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and 
bake  in  a  pan  with  as  small  amount  of  water  as  possible. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Gillespy. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS. 
6  green  peppers.  1/2  cup  brown  sauce. 

1  onion.  1/2  cup  bread  crumbs. 

1/2  cup  mushrooms.  1  tbls.  butter, 

"chop  onion  and  mushrooms  fine  and  cook  with  the  brown 
sauce  about  15  minutes.  Put  in  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Remove  seeds  from  peppers.  Pour  over  them  boiling  water  and 
let  stand  about  10  minutes.  Drain,  stuff  with  above  ingredients, 
sprinkle  with  the  bread  crumbs.      Bake   15  minutes,  serve  with 

brown  toast. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Jones. 

EGG  PLANT. 

1  egg  plant.  A  small  piece  of  butter. 
4  tbls.  olive  oil.  A  sprig  of  garlic. 

2  ripe  tomatoes. 

Peel  egg  plant,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  soak  in  salt  water  for 
a  while.    Put  in  casserole  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  four  tbls.  of 


VEGETABLES  161 


olive  oil  and  a  sprig  of  garlic  or  small  onion.  Cook  until  tender. 
Then  add  several  very  ripe  tomatoes  cut  into  pieces,  stirring  all  to- 
gether.   Season  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Austell. 

EGG  PLANT  EN  CASSEROLE. 

1  large  egg-plant.  1  green  pepper. 

3  small  onions.  4  tbls.  melted  Wesson  or  short- 

3  tomatoes  ening, 

2  garlick  cloves  or  leaks. 

Peel  egg  plant,  slice  in  thin  slices,  and  soak  in  salted  water  one 
hour.  Rinse,  slice  other  vegetables  thin,  and  arrange  alternately 
in  greased  casserole,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 

OKRA. 

Cut  stems  to  the  tender  part  of  pod;  cook  whole  in  boiling 
salted  water  (if  cooked  in  iron  they  will  blacken)  until  tender,  drain 
and  return  to  the  sauce  pan  with  plenty  of  butter,  a  taste  of  vinegar, 
salt  and  pepper ;  simmer  slowly  until  they  are  thoroughly  seasoned. 
They  are  nice  sliced  and  stewed  with  an  equal  bulk  of  tomato,  sea- 
soned with  1  sweet  pepper,  1  t-spoon  salt  and  1  ounce  of  butter  to 
each  pint.  Sometimes  1/4  cup  rice  and  1/4  pound  of  diced  ham  are 
added  to  a  quart  of  the  above  stew. 

Mrs.  James  Chandler. 

CORN  SALAD. 
18  ears  fresh  corn.  2  large  red  peppers. 

14  lb.  powdered  mustard.  1  large  white  cabbage. 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  2  qts.  good  vinegar. 

4  large  onions.  4  good  sized  bunches  celery. 

2  large  green  peppers. 

Cut  off  corn  and  scrape  cob  as  when  cooking,  cut  up  cabbage, 
celery,  onions  and  peppers  fine,  add  sugar,  mustard,  salt  and  then 
vinegar.  Cook  over  slow  fire  for  forty  minutes  stirring  constantly. 
Just  before  removing  from  fire  add  two  level  t-spoons  of  tumeric. 

Mrs.  Thompson  H.  Jones. 

GUMBO. 

1  qt.  tomatoes.  1/2  cup  bacon  fat. 

2  green  sweet  peppers. 

1  pt.  okra.  1  large  onion. 

Peel  and  cut  up  tomatoes,  okra,  onion  and  pepper.  Fry  in  ba- 
con fat  until  brown.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  slowly, 
adding  no  water.    To  be  served  with  rice. 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Davis. 

SLICED  CUCUMBERS. 
Put  cucumbers  in  cold  or  ice  water  for  about  forty  minutes  be- 
fore serving.     Peel  and  cut  in  thin  slices.     Put  in  glass  dish  with 


162  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


layers  of  thinly  sliced  white  onions ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Gar- 
nish top  with  rings  of  sweet  green  peppers,  pour  over  the  whole 
good  apple  vinegar.  If  vinegar  is  very  strong,  use  one  part  of  water 
— two  of  vinegar.  Serve  immediately.  If  cucumbers  stand  too  long 
they  will  be  tough. 

Lucy  Parker. 

CORN  OYSTERS. 

1  qt.  grated  corn.  Butter  size  of  an  egg. 
3  egg  yolks.                                       4  tbls.  flour. 

Add  white  of  an  egg  beaten  stiff  to  above  ingredients  with  ex- 
ception of  lard  and  butter  which  is  put  in  frying  pan.  When  hot 
drop  in  mixture  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Voorhies. 

ASPARAGUS  IN  AMBUSH. 

2  bunches  cooked  asparagus.         1  tbls.  flour. 

1  cup  scalded  milk.  I/4,  t-spoon  salt. 

2  eggs.  i/s  t-spoon  pepper. 
1  tbls.  butter.                                    6  rolls. 

Cut  off  tops  of  the  rolls  to  serve  as  covers.  Remove  the  crumb, 
dust  the  shells  and  covers  with  melted  butter  and  brown  in  oven. 
Make  white  sauce  of  the  milk,  butter  and  flour.  Cut  the  tender  part 
of  the  asparagus  fine,  cook  a  few  minutes  in  the  white  sauce ;  fill 
the  rolls  with  the  mixture,  place  on  the  tops  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs,  A.  C.  Leonard. 

HOPPING  JOHN. 

1  pt.  of  cow  peas.  Bacon. 

1  cup  of  rice.  A  small  piece  of  minced  onion. 
Soak  the  peas  in  cold  water  during  the  night.     Put  the  bacon 

on  in  cold  water  to  boil — when  done,  remove  and  put  in  the  soaked 
cow  peas  to  cook  until  done — then  add  the  minced  onion  and  a  cup 
of  well  washed  rice  on  top  of  the  peas  and  the  water  in  which  cooked. 
The  rice  will  be  done  in  about  thirty  minutes,  stir  together  and  the 
mixture  will  be  almost  dry. 

Dr.  Emma  Reba  Bailey, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

FLAVORED  BEETS. 

2  cups  sliced  cooked  beets.  2  tbls.  butter. 
1/2  cup  sugar.  I/4  t-spoon  salt. 

1/2  cup  vinegar.  %  tbls.  corn-starch. 

Dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  vinegar,  add  sugar  and  salt,  and  let 
come  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly — cook  five  minutes,  then  beat  in 
the  butter,  pour  over  the  beets  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  T.  F.  Abercrombie, 

FRIED  SQUASH. 

Wash  and  pare  the  squash ;  slice  about  1/2  inch  thick,  sprinkle 


VEGETABLES  163 


with  salt,  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour,  fry  until  a  nice  brown,  in 
half  butter  and  half  lard.    Cook  slowly  with  cover  over  frying  pan. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  firm  tomatoes  and  skin  them.     Chill. 
Cut  a  hole  in  the  top  of  each  tomato  and  stuff  with  equal  parts  of 
baked  ham   (run  thru  meat  chopper),  cucumber  and  celery.     Put 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise  on  top  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Gillespy. 

TOMATO  FRITTERS. 
1  qt.  tomatoes.  Bread  crumbs. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  .        1  egg  yolk. 

1/4  t-spoon  pepper. 

Stew  tomatoes  until  reduced  to  1  pint ;  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
cold,  add  salt,  pepper,  egg  yolk  and  sufficient  bread  crumbs  to  make 
a  thick  mixture.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  lard  and  fry  as  you 
would  doughnuts. 

Mrs.  A,  R.  Brittain. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT. 
1  large  egg-plant.  1  tbls.  flour. 

3  tbls.  Wessons  Oil.  II/2  t-spoon  salt. 

1/2  cup  bread  crumbs.  i/^  t-spoon  pepper. 

1/2  cup  stock.  1  tbls.  vinegar. 

1  egg.  1  medium  onion. 

3  tbls.  chopped  parsley.  1  small  piece  garlic. 

2  medium  tomatoes.  1  cup  soaked  bread  crumbs. 
1/^  cup  mushrooms. 

Cut  egg-plant  in  halves,  and  carefully  remove  pulp  without 
breaking  skin.  Mix  pulp  with  some  of  the  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar, 
the  onion,  garlic  and  parsley  chopped  very  fine,  and  the  mushrooms 
and  tomatoes  coarsely  chopped  and  pack  all  tightly  down  in  a  bowl, 
letting  remain  thus  one  hour.  Fry  all  in  a  frying  pan,  adding  rest 
of  seasoning,  until  mixture  is  tender.  Fill  egg-plant  shells  with 
this,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  till  shells  are  tender,  in  a  moderate 
oven.  The  stock,  parsley,  mushrooms  and  garlic  may  be  dispensed 
with  if  not  on  hand. 

Mrs.  Elizabeth  Wing. 

TURNIPS  WITH  PORK. 

Cook  in  covered  sauce-pan  in  about  a  quart  of  boiling  watei 
for  half  an  hour,  a  small  piece  of  either  salt  or  fresh  pork.  (If  salt 
pork  is  used  soak  about  twenty  minutes  in  hot  water  to  freshen). 
Then  add  turnips  which  have  been  washed,  peeled  and  sliced  thin. 
Cook  all  together  until  turnips  are  tender.  The  water  should  then 
be  about  all  evaporated.  Remove  turnips,  salt  to  taste  and  m.ash 
fine.  Put  in  dish  and  sprinkle  over  them  a  little  black  pepper. 
Serve  with  hot  corn  meal  muffins. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  Jones. 


164  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 

TURNIP  SALAD  OR  GREENS  COOKED  WITH  PORK, 
Greens  should  be  tender  and  fresh.  If  wilted,  soak  in  cold 
water  1  hour.  Wash  well  one  peck,  or  desired  amount,  cutting  off 
small  roots.  Put  greens  in  large  uncovered  boiler,  filling  two-thirds 
full  of  boiling  water.  If  greens  are  old  enough  to  have  large  stems 
to  leaves,  these  should  be  removed  and  discarded.  This  boiling  takes 
away  the  bitter  taste,  which  so  many  find  objectionable.  Drain 
greens,  add  small  pieces  of  sliced  salt  pork,  cook  in  1  qt,  boiling 
water  for  II/2  hours  more,  (Time  in  cooking  depends  on  how 
young  and  tender  greens  are).  Water  may  be  added  as  it  boils 
away.      Water  should  be  evaporated  by  time  greens  are  ready  to 

serve, 

Mrs,  W.  F.  Wimberley, 

STRING  OR  SNAP  BEANS  WITH  PORK, 

(Southern  Style,) 
Beans  to  be  good  should  be  young  and  tender.  If  not  perfectly 
fresh  should  be  placed  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Cut  or  break 
ends,  taking  strings  (if  any)  with  them.  Wash,  put  in  covered 
boiler  with  small  piece  of  salt  pork.  (Wash  pork  well  with  hot 
water)  Keep  covered  with  boiling  water  about  three  hours  or  until 
beans  are  well  done.  Water  should  be  evaporated  when  beans  are 
ready  to  serve.  Add  salt  to  taste  just  before  serving.  These  are 
good  served  warm  with  spoon  corn  bread  (hot). 

Mrs.  Grady  Carlisle. 

STRING  BEANS. 
Wash  and  snap  beans.    Put  meat  drippings  or  lard  into  cooking 
utensil  and  get  frying  hot.     Pour  beans  into  kettle,  stirring  until 
they  change  color.     Add  a  little  water  occasionally  to  keep  from 
burning.    Beans  will  cook  in  a  third  less  time  than  the  old  way. 

Z.  V.  Dabney. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

2  cups  Navy  Beans.  4  slices  bacon. 

1/2  t-spoon  mustard.  14  t-spoon  soda. 

2"tbls.  molasses.  Salt  to  taste. 

Add  soda  to  water  in  which  beans  are  boiled.  Cook  until  ten- 
der. Put  in  baking  dish;  add  above  ingredients,  placing  strips  of 
bacon  on  top.  Cover  and  bake  for  one  half  hour,  taking  care  not  to 
let  them  cook  dry. 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Davis. 

MOTHER'S  BAKED  BEANS. 
1  qt,  navy  beans,  1/2  t-spoon  mustard. 

1/2  lb.  salt  pork.  1  tbls.  molasses. 

1  tbls  salt. 

Wash  and  pick  beans  and  soak  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain,  cover  with  cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point 
and  parboil  for  about  1/2  hour.  To  test,  take  up  a  spoon  full  and 
blow  on  them,  if  the  skin  curls  back  they  are  done.    Drain  in  colan- 


VEGETABLES  165 


der;  place  in  a  2  qt  earthen  bean  pot,  put  layer  of  beans,  add  salt 
pork,  which  has  been  previously  washed  and  gashed  across  the  top ; 
fill  pot  with  the  beans.  Dissolve  the  seasoning  and  molasses  in  hot 
water,  pour  over  the  beans,  then  fill  the  pot  with  hot  water,  cover 
and  bake  from  6  to  8  hours,  renewing  the  water  as  it  cooks  away 
until  nearly  done,  then  let  the  water  cook  away. 

Mrs.  M.  B.  Horton. 

LIMA  OR  BUTTER  BEANS. 

1  qt.  green  shelled  butter  beans,     l^  cup  milk. 

2  tbls.  butter.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cover  beans  with  boiling  water  in  saucepan,  cook  uncovered 
about  an  hour,  or  until  beans  are  tender.  Water  should  be  evap- 
orated when  beans  are  cooked.  Add  milk,  butter  and  salt.  Simmer 
a  few  minutes.  Pour  into  dish,  sprinkle  over  a  little  black  pepper. 
Serve  immediately.  Two  or  three  slices  of  bacon  may  be  cooked 
with  the  beans  which  gives  them  a  delightful  flavor.  In  this  case 
omit  milk  and  butter,  using  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  having  about 
three  tbls.  of  liquid  in  which  beans  were  cooked. 

In  cooking  dry  beans,  wash  and  put  in  saucepan.  Pour  boiling 
water  over  them.  Cover  tightly  and  let  stand  forty  minutes.  Drain, 
and  proceed  as  above  for  green  beans. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Wimberley. 
LIMA  BEANS  AND  MUSHROOMS. 
2  cups  cooked  lima  beans.  i/j[<  t-spoon  salt. 

1  tbls.  butter.  14.  cup  cream. 

2  cups  fresh  mushrooms. 

Use  beans  that  have  been  cooked,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.  Put  butter  in  saucepan,  add  beans,  mushrooms  and 
cream ;  let  simmer  for  about  ten  minutes ;  serve  hot.  Dried  lima 
beans  should  be  soaked  over  night  before  using,  drained  and  cooked 
in  boiling  water  until  soft.     Season  with  cream  and  butter. 

Mrs.  E.  Covington. 
SUCCOTASH. 
10  ears  of  com.  1  tbls.  salt. 

1  qt.  lima  beans.  14  t-spoon  pepper. 

2  tbls.  butter.  1  cup  sweet  cream. 

With  sharp  knife,  cut  corn  from  the  cob,  and  add  to  the  lima 
beans  the  last  15  minutes  of  cooking.  The  mixture  should  be  cooked 
nearly  dry.  Add  butter,  seasonings  and  cream,  and  simmer  for  10 
minutes. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Myers. 
SCALLOPED  CABBAGE. 
Choose  a  hard  crisp  head  of  cabbage  cut  in  quarters  and  cook 
till  tender  (25  min.)  in  boiling  salted  water.  Chop  rather  fine, 
place  in  buttered  baking  dish  pour  over  a  generous  amount  of  cream 
sauce  and  sprinkle  top  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  20  min.  and  serve 
in  the  same  dish.    This  is  as  good  as  cauliflower. 

Mrs.  Spencer  R.  Stone. 


166  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


STUFFED  CABBAGE. 
Select  firm  hard  head  cabbage,  take  out  inside,  leaving  four  or 
five  leaves.  Make  dressing  similar  to  turkey  dressing  (see  recipe) 
minced  meat,  oysters  or  chestnuts  may  be  added  to  dressing.  Re- 
stuff  cabbage,  tie  up  and  put  in  thin  sack.  Boil  in  salt  water  two 
hours.    Remove  from  sack  and  serve. 

Mrs.  B.  R.  Adams, 
Montezuma,  Ga. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim  off  outside  leaves  and  lay  blossoms  in  cold  salted  water. 
Slugs  and  other  insects  will  drop  out,  especially  if  gently  shaken  in 
the  water.  Tie  in  piece  of  mosquito  netting  and  lay,  head  up  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  and  cook  gently  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  or 
till  very  tender.  Drain  and  serve  with  Hollandaise  or  Cream  Sauce. 
This  makes  a  delicious  garnish  for  fried  spring  chicken  or  fried 
sweet  breads. 

Cauliflower  with  Parmesan  cheese  is  made  as  above,  adding  a 
t-spoon  of  Parmesan  cheese  to  the  sauce  before  it  is  poured  over  the 
cauliflower;  sprinkle  melted  butter  over  it  and  bake  a  few  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Charles  Myers. 

FRIED  CORN. 
6  medium  ears  com.  1  cup  water. 

4  slices  bacon.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

Cut  through  center  of  kernel  of  tender  corn,  scrape  carefully 
from  cob  so  pulp  and  juices  may  be  extracted  without  the  removal 
of  hulls.  Fry  fat  from  bacon.  Remove  meat,  add  corn,  boiling 
water  and  salt.  Cook  over  moderate  fire  stirring  occasionally, 
about  20  or  25  minutes.    Corn  should  be  slightly  brown  when  done. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle. 

CORN  SALAD. 
10  ears  of  corn.  3  onions. 

1  small  cabbage.  1  tbls.  dry  mustard. 

2  stalks  celery.  1  t-spoon  tumeric. 
2  red  and  2  green  bell  peppers.     1  cup  sugar. 

2  tbls.  salt. 

Cut  corn  from  the  cob,  and  chop  vegetables  fine ;  mix  altogether, 
cook  slowly  for  two  hours,  put  up  in  small  air  tight  cans,  keep  in  a 
refrigerator  when  opened. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Gentry. 

ASPARAGUS. 
Wash  carefully  2  green  bunches  of  asparagus,  cut  the  ends  un- 
til the  tender  part  is  reached.     Arrange  in  one  large  bundle  and 
fasten  with  broad  band  of  coarse  muslin,  pinned  at  each  side.    Boil 
gently  in  salted  water  until  done,  about  20  to  30  minutes,  use  only 


VEGETABLES  167 


enough  water  to  cover.     Let  water  cook  down  toward  the  last  of 
cooking.    Serve  on  slices  of  buttered  toast  with  Hollandaise  Sauce. 

Miss  Alice  Needham. 

DUTCH  POTATOES  (Very  Good). 

6  medium  size  boiled  potatoes.       3  slices  bacon. 
2  t-spoons  sugar,  less  if  desired,    i/j,  cup  vinegar. 

1  medium  size  onion.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Crisp  bacon  in  frying  pan,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Stir  sugar  and 
salt  in  the  vinegar.  Pour  this  into  the  frying  pan,  add  potatoes, 
onions  (sliced),  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover.  Steam  about  ten 
minutes.    Serve  immediately  with  any  cold  sliced  meat. 

Mrs.  William  D.  Alexander. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

6  boiled  potatoes.  i/8  t-spoon  pepper. 

2  tbls  butter.  1  t-spoon  minced  parsley. 
1  onion  chopped  fine.  1/4  t-spoon  lemon  juice. 

1  t-spoon  salt. 

Cook  butter  and  onions  in  an  omelet  pan,  add  potatoes  and  sea- 
sonings, mix  well  and  saute  a  nice  brown.  Just  before  serving  add 
parsley  and  lemon  juice. 

Miss  Irma  Rankin. 


DAINTY  DESSERTS. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Dinwiddie,   Chairman. 

Frozen  desserts  prolong  the  digestion  of  a  meal,  as  does  a  sweet 
taste,  and  so  are  used  to  finish  a  meal.  There  is  little  food  value  in 
water  ices,  gelatine  deserts  or  cold  beverages  outside  of  this  fact — 
pies,  ice-creams,  puddings,  and  custards  are  rich  in  food  value  which 
should  be  remembered  in  planning  a  meal. 

Mary  P.  Means. 

BANANA  CUSTARD. 

%  cup  sugar.  1  egg  (well  beaten). 

2  cups  milk.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

1/2  cup  corn  starch.  1/2  cup  marshmallow  whip, 

"stir  to  dissolve  ingredients  mentioned  in  first  column  and  then 
bring  to  a  boil  and  cook  slowly  for  5  minutes.  Add  ingredients  of 
second  column.  Rinse  6  small  custard  cups  in  cold  water  and  then 
pour  in  custard.  Set  in  ice  box  to  chill.  When  ready  to  serve,  un- 
mold  and  cover  the  entire  custard  with  thinly  sliced  bananas  which 
have  been  dipped  in  sugar  to  make  the  bananas  stick.  Sprinkle  with 
finely  chopped  nuts  and  top  off  with  one  t-spoonful  marshmallow 
whip.  Garnish  with  maraschino  cherry.  Then  pour  1  t-spoon  of 
the  syrup  from  bottle  of  cherries  over  the  custard. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 

FROZEN  PUNCH. 


cups  sugar. 

qt.  ginger  ale. 

can  shredded  pineapple. 

When  cold  add  other  ingredi- 


3 
1/2  &al.  tea.  1 

1/2  doz.  lemons.  1 

'stir  sugar  in  hot  tea  to  dissolve, 
ents  and  stir  well.    Freeze  and  let  stand  packed  for  two  hours.    Use 
two  parts  finely  crushed  ice  to  one  of  salt.    Serve  with  cherry  on  top 
of  each  serving.    Serves  25. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Plage, 
East  Lake. 


DAINTY   DESSERTS  169 


MARSHMALLOW  FRAPPE. 
6  egg  whites.  2  cups  hot  water. 

6  this,  sugar.  1/2  cup  fruit,   (candied). 

1  envelope  gelatine.  V2  cup  nuts.   _       ^ 
1/3  cup  cold  water.  '       .  i^r  ■  j-^,- 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes ;  dissolve  in  hot  water. 
Beat  eggs  very  stiff,  add  sugar  and  beat  in  the  dissolved  gelatine, 
fruit  and  nuts.  Place  in  pan  of  ice  water,  stir  until  creamy.  Put 
on  ice.    Serve  with  yellow  sauce. 

Sauce. 

6  egg  yolks.  3  cups  milk. 

8  tbls  sugar.  Vanilla  to  taste. 

2  tbls  flour. 

Cream  sugar,  egg  yolks  and  flour  together  well.  Put  milk  in 
double  boiler,  add  mixture  and  stir  until  creamy.  Cool  and  add  va- 
nilla. 

Mrs.  F.  D.  Waite. 

MARSHMALLOW  DAINTY. 

1/2  lb.  marshmallows.  1  cup  nut  meats. 

1  pt.  thick  cream.  Sugar  to  sweeten  cream. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Cut  marshmallows  into  small  pieces ;  chop  nuts  not  too  fine. 
Whip  cream,  flavor  and  slightly  sweeten.  Place  in  serving  or  in- 
dividual dishes  in  alternate  layers,  cream  on  top.  Serve  very  cold. 
Garnish  with  candied  flowers  or  fruit.     Serves  8. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  VanVoorhees. 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM. 

1  pt.  heavy  cream.  1  doz.  marshmallows. 

2  egg  whites.  1/4  lb.  crystallized  cherries, 
1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Beat  cream  until  stiff  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  add  well  beaten  egg 
whites,  vanilla,  cherries,  and  marshmallows  cut  up  fine.  Set  on  ice 
about  3  hours.    Serve  in  Parfait  or  Sherbet  glass. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Gibbs. 

HAVANA  CREAM. 
8  oz.  fresh  grated  cocoanuts.  4  oz.  butter. 

1  lb.  sugar.  6  egg  yolks. 
4  large  oranges.                                2  whole  eggs. 

2  lemons. 

Grate  rinds  of  1  orange  and  1  lemon,  squeeze  the  juice; 
mix  well  with  sugar  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  butter,  then  cocoanut, 
boil  five  minutes;  stir  in  eggs  and  cook  slowly  until  thick.  Excel- 
lent to  serve  with  fruit  cake.  It  can  be  kept  indefinitely  in  a  glass 
jar  in  refrigerator. 

Mrs.  James  N.  Austin. 


170         ATLANTA  WOMAN'S  CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 
1/2  envelope  gelatine,  3  cups  whipped  cream. 

1/3  cup  scalded  cream.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

1/4  cup  water.  1/3  cup  powdered  sugar. 

1/2  doz.  lady  fingers. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  stir  this  in  scalded  cream. 
Strain :  add  sugar  and  vanilla.  Set  in  ice  box  until  thick.  Fold  in 
gradually  the  whipped  cream.  Place  lady  fingers  in  mold,  pour  in 
mixture  and  chill. 

Mrs.  R.  T.  Aderhold, 
Pres.  College  Park  Woman's  Club. 

CHOCOLATE  SOUFFLE. 
2  sq.  unsweetened  chocolate.  1  pt.  milk. 
1/3  cup  sugar.  3  eggs. 

2  t-spoons  vanilla.  1/2  cup  sugar. 

1  tbls.  gelatine. 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  1/4  cup  cold  water.  Melt  chocolate  with 
sugar  over  hot  water;  add  milk  gradually.  When  milk  is  scalded 
stir  and  cook  into  it,  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  with  1/2  cup  sugar. 
Cook  until  mixture  coats  the  spoon ;  add  vanilla  and  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  cold  water.  Strain  all  this  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  eggs.  After  folding  in  egg  whites,  turn  mixture  into  chilled  mold 
to  congeal.    Serve  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Edward  H.  Barnes. 

PRUNE  SOUFFLE. 
1  cup  prune  pulp.  4  egg  whites. 

4  tbls.  sugar.  Chopped  nuts. 

Stew  1/2  lb.  prunes  in  as  little  water  as  possible.  Drain  and 
put  through  colander.  Add  sugar  to  well  beaten  egg  whites,  and 
add  prune  pulp.  Pour  in  buttered  pudding  dish,  set  in  pan  of  hot 
water,  bake  very  slowly  until  set.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 
Sprinkle  with  chopped  nut  meats  if  desired. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Massenburg. 

CHERRY  GELATINE. 

1  envelope  gelatine.  1/2  cup  lemon  juice. 

1/2  cup  cold  water.  1  pt.  sweetened  red  acid  cher- 
%  cup  sugar.  ries. 

2  cups  boiling  water.  2  egg  whites. 
1/2  cup  cherry  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Dissolve  with  boil- 
ing water,  add  sugar,  cool ;  add  lemon  juice  and  cherry  juice.  When 
half  congealed  add  beaten  whites ;  when  almost  congealed  add  pitted 
cherries. 

Mrs.  John  Hardwick. 


DAINTY   DESSERTS  171 


PINEAPPLE  AND  GRAPEFRUIT  GELATINE. 
2  envelopes  gelatine.  1/4  cup  lemon  juice. 

2  cups  cold  water.  21/2  lb  canned  pineapple. 

214  cups  sugar.  2  grapefruit,  medium  size. 

4  cups  boiling  water. 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  1  cup  cold  water;  add  1  cup  cold  water 
or  pineapple  juice.  Add  boiling  water,  sugar,  lemon  juice.  When 
half  congealed,  add  diced  grapefruit  and  pineapple.  Congeal,  serve 
as  a  dessert  or  a  salad  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McDonald. 

COFFEE  GELATINE. 

1  envelope  gelatine.  V2  cup  milk. 
14  cup  cold  water.                             1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  boiling  coffee.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

3  eggs. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water.  Add  boiling  clear 
coffee,  beat  together  yolks  of  eggs,  milk  and  sugar.  Turn  into  coffee 
and  gelatine  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens  slightly.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  stirring 
together  only  until  well  mixed,  add  1  t-spoon  of  vanilla.  Turn 
into  mold  to  harden.  Serve  cut  in  slices  with  a  sauce  made  of  thick 
cream  slightly  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Frank  Daub. 

STRAWBERRY  DELIGHT. 
1  pkg.  fresh  marshmallows.  1  pkg.  lady  fingers. 

1  qt.  strawberries.  1  pt.  whipped  cream. 

Mash  berries,  reserving  whole,  a  few  of  the  choicest  ones ;  cut 
marshmallows  with  shears  into  4  parts,  and  soak  in  strawberry  juice 
2  hours  until  soft.  Mix  lady-fingers,  crumbled,  marshmallows, 
fruit  juice  and  whipped  cream  together  5  minutes  before  serving 
time.  Serve  in  tall  glasses,  with  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  and 
strawberry  on  top.    Pineapple,  or  any  tart  fruit  may  be  substituted. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 

ORANGE  TAPIOCA. 

l^  cup  tapioca.  1  orange. 

11/2  cups  water.  1/2  cup  sugar. 

Cook  tapioca  and  sugar  in  double  boiler  until  clear.  Add  orange 
(cut  in  small  pieces).  Serve  cold  with  cream.  Canned  peaches  cut 
in  cubes  and  maraschino  cherries  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Dinwiddle. 

FRUIT  DESSERT. 
3  bananas.  3  slices   chopped   canned   pine- 

5  oranges.  apple. 
Cocoanut,                                           1/2  cup  honey. 

1  cup  chopped  nut-meats. 
Skin  and  dice  bananas,  slice  peeled  oranges,  removing  seeds. 
Put  these  into  a  glass  dish  and  add  a  layer  of  cocoanut,  pineapple, 


172  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


honey  and  chopped  nut-meats.  Chill  and  serve  with  whipped  cream, 
sweetened  with  a  little  honey.  Maple-syrup  may  be  used  instead  of 
honey. 

Mrs.  Henry  Alford  Porter. 

BAKED  BANANAS. 
6  bananas.  1  lemon. 

1  cup  brown  crumbs.  1  tbls.  butter. 

1/2  cup  sugar.  Water. 

'Brush  baking  dish  with  butter;  peel  bananas  and  place  in  the 
dish  whole;  fill  in  with  crumbs,  sugar,  juice  of  lemon  and  butter. 
Add  enough  water  to  almost  cover  fruit.    Bake. 

Mrs.  B.  Christopher. 

APRICOT  JELLY. 

1  lb.  dried  apricots.  2  tbls.  gelatine. 

1  cup  sugar.  1/2  cup  cold  water. 

Wash  apricots,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  soak  several  hours. 
Add  sugar  and  boil  slowly  for  one  hour  in  same  water.  Strain 
through  a  fine  wire  sieve.  With  the  juice  they  should  be  of  the  con- 
sistency of  fruit  butter.  While  hot  stir  in  gelatine  which  has  been 
softened  in  cold  water.    Mold  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Sibley. 

APRICOT  SHERBET. 

1  qt.  can  apricots.  1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  water.  Juice  3  lemons. 
1  egg  white. 

Mash  apricots  through  sieve.  Make  a  syrup  of  water  and  sugar 
boiled  together  five  minutes.  Add  mashed  apricots  to  syrup;  cool 
and  freeze.    When  mixture  begins  to  freeze,  add  beaten  egg  white. 

Miss  Clara  Lee  Cone, 
Director  Home  Economics,  Girls  High  School. 

BISQUE  ICE  CREAM. 
1  qt.  milk.  1  doz.  almond  macaroons. 

1  pt.  cream.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

2  junket  tablets.  i/4  t-spoon  salt. 
11/2  cups  sugar.                                  Few  drops  coloring. 
1  cup  pecan  meats. 

Heat  milk  until  luke  warm,  add  sugar,  salt  and  junket  tablets 
that  have  been  dissolved  in  2  t-spoons  of  cold  water.  Put  in  warm 
room  for  20  minutes.  When  firm,  mix  with  cream  which  has  been 
whipped.  Add  nut  meats,  macaroons,  vanilla  and  coloring.  Freeze 
as  you  would  any  ice  cream.    Serves  8. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Rogers. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI  ICE  CREAM. 
1  pt.  milk.  1  cup  grated  pineapple. 

3  eggs.  1  cup  sugar. 

1  qt.  whipped  cream  sweetened     1  cup  pecan  meats, 
to  taste. 


DAINTY  DESSERTS  173 


1  cup  strawberry  preserves.  1  small    bottle    of    maraschino 

cherries,  cut  in  pieces. 
Mix  fruit  and  nuts  and  let  stand  for  several  hours.    Make  cus- 
tard of  milk,  sugar  and  eggs,  cool  and  add  to  cream.    When  ready 
to  freeze  add  fruits  and  nuts.    Freeze,  using  one  measure  of  salt  to 
three  of  crushed  ice. 

This  cream  is  very  much  improved  by  pouring  a  small  amount 
of  wine  or  brandy  over  the  fruit  while  standing. 

Mrs.  P.  V.  Oswald. 

PEPPERMINT  ICE  CREAM. 
1  pt.  milk.  1  lb.  peppermint  stick  candy, 

1  qt.  cream. 

Crush  candy  and  dissolve  in  milk ;  add  cream  and  freeze.  This 
is  delicious. 

Mrs.  S.  A.  Ledbetter. 

NOUGAT  ICE  CREAM. 
3  cups  milk.  1/3  cup  each,  pistachio,  filbert. 

1  cup  sugar.  English  walnut  and   al- 

5  egg  yolks,  mond  meats. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  1  t-spoon  almond  extract. 

11/2  cups  heavy  cream.  1  tbls.  vanilla. 

Whites  5  eggs. 

Make  a  custard  of  first  four  ingredients,  strain,  and  cool.  Add 
heavy  cream  beaten  until  stiff,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  nut 
meats  finely  chopped,  and  flavoring.    Then  freeze. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 

MARSHMALLOW  ICE  CREAM. 
1  qt.  thick  cream,  whipped  stiff.     8  marshmallows. 
Parched  almonds.  Flavoring. 

1  tbls.  gelatine. 

Beat  marshmallows  into  whipped  cream,  sweeten  and  flavor  to 
taste;  add  gelatine  to  a  little  cold  water,  dissolve  over  hot  water 
and  beat  into  whipped  cream  last.  Freeze.  Serve  with  rolled 
parched  almonds. 

Mrs.  C.  K.  Ayer. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 
11/2  cups  sugar.  3  pts.  milk. 

2  t-spoons  vanilla.  3  eggs. 
5  tbls.   cornstarch   mixed  with 

cold  water. 
Stir  sugar  in  milk,  bring  to  a  boil ;  add  slowly  and  stir  in  corn- 
starch.   To  the  beaten  yolks  add  a  little  of  the  mixture,  then  a  little 
more  until  all  is  mixed  with  milk.    Turn  off  gas ;  add  beaten  whites 
and  vanilla.     Freeze. 

Mrs.  John  Hardwick. 


174  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


FRUIT  ICE. 
Pack  a  can  of  peaches,  pears,  apricots,  or  any  fruit  put  up  in  a 
syrup  heavy  enough  for  table  use  in  ice  and  salt;  freeze  like  a 
mousse.     Remove  the  contents  of  the  can  carefully,    (by  cutting 
around  center  of  can)  in  a  block,  slice  and  serve  as  an  ice. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Yopp. 

APRICOT  ICE. 

2  cans  apricots.  2  cups  sugar. 

1  doz  oranges.  II/2  pts.  water. 

1/2  doz.  lemons. 

Press  apricots  through  a  fine  sieve,  squeeze  the  oranges  and 
lemons  adding  the  juice  to  the  apricot  pulp.  Boil  v^ater  and  sugar 
for  several  minutes,  allows  to  cool.  Add  this  to  fruit  juice,  stir  well 
and  freeze. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Wynn. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 
6  oranges.  1  lb.  sugar. 

1  lemon.  1  qt.  water. 

Add  grated  yellow  rind  of  3  oranges  to  sugar ;  add  water, 
stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved  and  boil  five  minutes  after  mixture  be- 
gins to  boil.  Strain ;  when  cool  add  a  pint  of  orange  juice  and  juice 
of  lemon.    Freeze. 

Mrs.  James,  L.  Logan. 

MILK   SHERBET.      PINEAPPLE   OR   PEACH. 
1  pt.  milk.  1  pt.  water. 

11/2  cups  sugar.  1  small  grated  pineapple. 

Juice  of  2  lemons.  1  tbls.  gelatine. 

Add  lemon  juice  and  one  half  of  the  sugar  to  water.  Scald 
milk  (be  careful  not  to  boil  it).  Put  gelatine  in  ^4  cup  cold  water  a 
few  minutes,  add  to  hot  milk  with  balance  of  sugar.  Stir  until  dis- 
solved and  let  cool.  Add  pineapple  to  lemonade,  put  in  freezer  turn 
crank  a  few  minutes  until  mixture  thickens ;  remove  top  from 
freezer  add  milk  and  gelatine  and  finish  freezing.  Soft  peaches  in- 
stead of  pineapple  are  fine  for  this  sherbet. 

Mrs.  John  F.  Daniel. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

1  can  grated  pineapple.  2  cups  sugar. 

3  oranges,   (juice).  1  qt.  whole  milk,  or 

2  lemons,  (juice).  1  pt.  milk  and  1  pt.  cream. 
Add  1  cup  sugar  to  fruit.      Mix  milk  with  other  cup  of  sugar 

and  partially  freeze.    Add  fruit  and  fruit  juices  and  complete  freez- 
ing. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Kirk. 


DAINTY   DESSERTS  175 


FRUIT  SHERBET. 
1  qt.  water.  1  pt.  fruit  juice,  and  fruit. 

11/2  cups  sugar.  Whites  of  2  eggs. 

Juice  of  1  lemon. 

Boil  water  and  sugar  together  five  minutes;  let  cool.  Add 
lemon  and  fruit  juices.  Put  in  freezer  and  when  half  frozen  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  then  continue  to  freeze  until  stiff. 
Remove  dasher  and  pack.  Canned  red  raspberries,  apricots  (put 
through  sieve)  or  shredded  pineapple,  also  fresh  orange,  straw- 
berry, or  grape  juices  are  delightful  for  this  ice. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Rogers. 

FROZEN  NEWPORT  WHIP. 
1  pt.  strawberry  juice.  1  pt.  sugar. 

1  cup  heavy  cream.  2  egg  whites. 

Boil  strawberry  juice  and  sugar  together  until  a  heavy  syrup ; 
let  cool ;  add  egg  whites  beaten  until  foamy  to  syrup,  add  cream  and 
stir  until  very  frothy.  Pour  into  wet  mold  and  bury  two  hours  in 
salt  and  ice.    Raspberry  juice  can  be  used  as  well  as  strawberry. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Rowe. 

CHOCOLATE  MOUSSE. 

2  squares  unsweetened  choc.        3  tbls.  boiling  water. 
1/2  cup  powdered  sugar.  %  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  cream.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

%  tbls.  gelatine.  1  qt.  cream. 

Melt  chocolate,  add  powdered  sugar,  and  gradually  one  cup 
cream.  Stir  over  fire  until  boiling  point  is  reached ;  add  gelatine, 
soaked  in  cold  and  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Strain  mixture  into  a  bowl,  set  in  ice-water,  stir  constantly  until 
mixture  thickens ;  fold  in  the  remaining  cream.  Mold,  pack  in  salt 
and  ice,  and  let  stand  4  hours. 

Miss  Hazel  A.  Stevenson. 

RUBY  MOUSSE. 

1  glass  jelly.  1  pt.  cream. 

Beat  cream  until  stiff,  add  jelly  and  freeze.  Grape  jelly  makes 
a  beautiful  lavender  color. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Plage. 

MAPLE  PARFAIT. 

6  egg  yolks.  %  cup  maple  syrup. 

2  cups  whipped  cream. 

Beat  egg  yolks  until  very  light,  pour  over  them  the  maple  syrup. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  makes  a  thick  coating  on  the  spoon. 
Pour  into  a  bowl  and  beat  with  a  wire  egg  beater  until  light.  Add 
whipped  cream,  put  in  mold,  pack  in  ice  and  salt  about  4  hours. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Seay. 


176  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


MAPLE  MOUSSE. 
%  cup  hot  maple  syrup.  1/2  pt.  whipped  cream. 

2  eggs. 

Pour  hot  syrup  over  eggs  beating  constantly.  Cook  slowly  un- 
til the  mixture  thickens.  When  cool  fold  into  the  cream  whipped, 
and  pack  in  equal  parts  of  ice  and  coarse  salt.    Let  stand  3  hours. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Stevens. 

COFFEE  MOUSSE. 
1  pt.  sweet  cream.  1/2  cup  strong  coffee. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Whip  the  cream,  add  sugar  sifted ;  then  coffee.  Put  in  a  mold, 
surround  with  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  two  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Dinwiddle. 

BISCUIT  TORTONI. 

%  cup  sugar.  3  eggs  well  beaten. 

%  cup  water  or  coffee.  12  macaroons  well  browned. 

1  pt.  heavy  cream,  whipped.  Almond  flavoring. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  or  coffee  until  it  spins  a  thread ;  mix  with 
eggs ;  beat  until  cool,  add  whipped  cream.  Put  one  half  the  maca- 
roons crumbled  in  the  bottom  of  the  mold,  fill  in  with  the  mixture, 
crumble  balance  of  macaroons.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand 
four  hours. 

Mrs.  P.  V.  Oswald. 

PINEAPPLE  MOUSSE. 
1  can   pineapple.  %  cup  sugar. 

11/2  cups  whipped  cream.  1  egg  white. 

brain  juice  from  can  of  pineapple,  add  enough  water  to  make 
1  pt.,  boil  with  sugar.  It  should  be  like  rich  syrup  when  cool.  Add 
to  cool  syrup  cream  whipped  stiff  and  egg  white  whipped  dry.  Beat 
until  it  is  frothy ;  put  in  mold  and  pack  with  ice  and  salt  two  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Rowe. 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING. 
1  pt.  large  chestnuts.  1  pt.  cream. 

1  pt.  water.  6  egg  yolks. 

1  lb.  sugar.  1  pt.  grated  apple. 

French  candied  fruit.  1  tbls.  vanilla. 

Boil  chestnuts  until  tender,  remove  the  shell  and  brown  skins, 
press  pulp  through  a  strainer,  boil  sugar  and  water  together  for  five 
minutes,  beat  yolks  until  light,  add  to  boiling  syrup,  beat  contin- 
uously, until  thick  and  cool,  then  add  candied  fruit  chopped  very  fine 
vanilla,  pineapple  and  chestnuts.  Put  into  freezer,  when  frozen 
stir  in  the  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Snellgrove. 


PASTRIES,  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Bean,  Chairman. 


BANANA  PUDDING. 


2  boxes  vanilla  wafers. 
6  large  bananas. 
11/2  cup  sugar. 
2  egg  yolks. 


4  tbls.  flour. 

1  tbls.  butter. 

1  tbls.  vanilla. 

1  pt.  milk. 


Mix  flour  and  sugar,  dissolve  with  milk,  put  in  beaten  yolks  and 
butter.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  (Pineapple  may  be  used 
instead  of  bananas.)  Pour  this  over  wafers  and  bananas  which 
have  been  sliced  lengthwise  into  pudding  dish. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Smith. 


EGOLESS  STEAMED  PUDDING  (Suitable  For  Children). 
1  pt.  flour.  1  t-spoon  soda. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  2  tbls.  brown  sugar. 

114  cups  butter  milk.  1/3  cup  molasses. 

1/2  cup  raisins.  V2  cup  currants. 

1  cup  chopped  apples. 
Mix  all  together,  pour  into  well  greased  mold,  steam  2-1/2  hours. 
Serve  with  any  kind  of  sauce. 

Mrs.  G.  B.  Denman. 


A  DELICIOUS  NUT  PUDDING. 
1  cup  molasses.  1  cup  suet. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  1  cup  raisins. 

1  cup  English  walnuts.  V2  cup  figs. 

1  tbls.  nutmeg.  1  t-spoon  soda. 

21/2  cup  flour.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

Put  suet  through  meat  grinder,  add  molasses,  then  soda  dis- 
solved in  milk.     Chop  nuts  and  raisins  and  mix  with  flour.     Add 


178  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


nutmeg,  put  in  greased  1  pound  coffee  cans  and  steam  from  2-1/2 
to  3  hours. 

Sauce. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar.  1/2  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sweet  cream.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Beat  to  a  cream  butter  and  sugar.  Whip  cream,  and  add  to 
this.  Put  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  foamy  and  smooth,  add 
flavoring  and  serve  on  pudding. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Smith. 

i  BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

New  England  Style. 

1  pt.  milk.  1/2  cup  molasses. 

3  tbls.  yellow  meal.  1  tbls.  butter. 

1  egg.  1/4  t-spoon  salt. 

1/4  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

Stir  meal  into  scalding  milk  while  cooking;  when  cooked  take 
from  stove  add  well-beaten  egg,  molasses,  butter,  salt  and  cinnamon ; 
add  1  pt.  cold  milk.    Bake  slowly  3  or  4  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Wing, 
Palmer,  Mass. 

GRATED  SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. 

4  cups  grated  potato.  1/2  cup  chopped  nuts. 
1  cup  Georgia  cane  syrup.            2  t-spoon  salt. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  tbls.  ground  ginger. 

1  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

1/2  cup  butter.  3  eggs. 

1/2  pt.  whipped  cream. 
In  iron  skillet  melt  butter,  stir  in  all  ingredients  except  nuts 
which  should  be  added  when  half  done.    Cook  in  hot  oven  about  40 
minutes,  adding  1  cup  hot  water  if  it  gets  very  stiff.    Serve  almost 
cold  with  whipped  cream.     A  favorite  dessert  of  my  family. 

Mrs.  L.  G.  Neal. 

CHOCOLATE  BREAD  PUDDING. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs.  1/3  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  scalded  milk.  1  egg. 

1  oz.  chocolate.  i/4  t-spoon  salt. 

14  cup  boiling  water.  1/2  t-spoon  vanilla. 

1/2  cup  nuts. 

Add  bread  crumbs  to  scalded  milk  and  allow  to  soak  until  soft. 
Cut  chocolate  in  pieces,  add  boiling  water  and  cook  until  a  smooth 
paste  is  formed.  Add  this  to  bread  mixture.  Beat  eggs ;  add  sugar 
and  salt.  Add  the  first  mixture  to  the  egg  mixture ;  add  vanilla  and 
turn  into  a  buttered  dish ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with 
plain  or  whipped  cream  or  lemon  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Sibley. 


PASTRIES,    PUDDINGS    AND    DUMPLINGS  179 


DATE  PUDDING. 
1  cup  chopped  dates.  II/2  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  chopped  nuts.  3  tbls.  milk. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  beaten  eggs. 

2  tbls.  flour.  Salt  to  taste. 

Stir  all  together  and  steam  1  hour.  This  well  be  a  sticky  mess, 
but  set  it  aside  for  a  few  hours,  serve  with  whipped  cream,  and 
you  will  find  it  delicious. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Plage. 

KISS  PUDDING  NO.  1. 

1  qt.  milk.  2  tbls.  corn  starch. 
4  eggs.  1/2  cup  sugar. 

2  tbls.  butter. 

Stir  together  gradually  corn  starch  and  well  beaten  yolks,  add 
with  butter  to  milk  near  boiling,  stir  until  thick ;  pour  into  baking 
dish,  add  sugar  to  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  top  pudding  with  this 
meringue,  brown  in  moderate  oven,  and  serve  with  light  sauce. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Hardy. 

DATE  PUDDING  NO.  1. 
1/2  pt.  whipped  cream.  3  eggs. 

1  cup  dates.  %  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  walnut  meats.  14  t-spoon  salt. 

11/2  tbls.  flour.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

Mix  dates,  walnut  meats,  sugar  and  salt  together;  add  flour 
mixed  with  Royal  Baking  Powder,  then  egg  yolks  and  vanilla.  Beat 
lightly  with  fork  then  fold  in  whites.  Bake  nearly  an  hour  in  mod- 
erate oven.    Serve  with  whipped  cream  in  tall  glasses. 

Mrs.  Earle  Harris, 
Chattanooga,  Tenn. 

SOUTHERN  PUDDING   (Excellent.) 

3  tbls.  corn  starch.  5  eggs. 

6  tbls.  sugar.  1  qt.  milk. 

Canned  peaches  or  preferred  Pinch  salt, 
fruit. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs  light,  add  sugar  and  beat  again  until  very 
light.  Mix  corn  starch  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  into  1  qt. 
scalded  milk.  Add  salt  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  pudding 
dish,  place  in  oven,  let  remain  until  it  will  bear  icing.  Place  over 
top,  layer  of  canned  peaches  or  preferred  fruit.  (It  improves  to 
mix  the  syrup  of  fruit  with  custard.)  Beat  white  of  eggs  to  stiff 
froth  with  2  tbls.  of  sugar  to  each  egg.  Spread  on  custard,  brown 
evenly  in  oven.    This  is  a  very  delicate  pudding. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 


180  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


COCOANUT  PUDDING. 
14  lb.  grated  cocoanut.  V2  Pt.  cream. 

14  lb.  butter.  9  eggs. 

1  lb.  sugar.  1  gill  rose  water. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  as  for  cake,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten, 
put  in  other  ingredients  and  bake  with  or  without  crust. 

Miss  Alma  Levy. 

DATE  PUDDING  NO.  2. 

1  cup  dates,  (pitted).  1  t-spoon  Royal  baking  pow- 

1  cup  walnuts,  (quartered).  der. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  tbls.  flour. 

2  eggs.  Pinch  salt. 

Grind  dates  and  nuts  together;  stir  unbeaten  eggs,  sugar  and 
salt  together.  Add  to  mixture  flour,  baking  powder,  dates  and  nuts. 
Mix  well.    Bake  40  minutes  in  slow  oven.     Serve  with  thick  cream. 

Mrs.  Alfred  E.  Buck. 

MACAROON  PUDDING. 
1  tbls.  gelatine.  3  eggs. 

1/2  cup  cold  water.  %  pt.  milk. 

13/4  cups  sugar.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  10  minutes;  dissolve  over  warm 
water.  To  well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  add  sugar,  milk,  gelatine  and 
cook  for  15  minutes;  (mixture  should  look  curdled).  While  hot 
pour  over  well  beaten  whites  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  flavoring. 
Line  a  bowl  or  mold  with  macaroons,  pour  part  of  mixture  over 
macaroons.  Add  more  macaroons  and  rest  of  mixture.  Set  aside 
to  cool.    Nice  served  with  whipped  cream  and  maraschino  cherries. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Floyd. 

BLACKBERRY  PUDDING. 
1  cup  milk.  1  cup  berries. 

1/2  cup  sugar.  1  t-spoon  soda. 

1  egg. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together ;  add  milk  and  soda ;  to  this  add 
berries  drained  and  flour  enough  for  thin  batter.    Bake  until  done. 

Sauce, 

1  cup  berry  juice.  1/2  t-spoon  butter. 

1  cup  water.  Corn  starch. 

1/2  cup  sugar. 

Boil  water,  berry  juice  and  sugar  together,  add  butter  and 
enough  corn  starch  to  thicken. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Rowe. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

1  cup  finely  chopped  beef  suet.     1  cup     chopped     blanched     al- 

2  cups  bread  crumbs.  monds. 

1  cup  sugar.  V2  cup  citron  sliced  thin. 


PASTRIES,    PUDDINGS    AND    DUMPLINGS  181 


1  cup  seeded  raisins.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  cup  currants.  1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

1  cup  figs.  1  t-spoon  cloves. 

4  well  beaten  eggs.  i^  grated  nutmeg. 

1  cup  wine. 
Flour  fruit  thoroughly,  using  part  of  1  pint  flour.  Mix  re- 
mainder as  follows ;  pour  beaten  eggs  into  large  bowl,  add  sugar, 
spices,  salt  and  wine.  Stir  in  the  dredged  fruit,  chopped  nuts, 
bread  crumbs  and  suet  alternately  until  all  are  used ;  adding  last  1 
t-spoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  1  tbls.  of  warm  water.  Then  add  bal- 
ance of  flour  to  make  fruit  stick  together.  Boil  or  steam  in  mold 
four  hours. 

Mrs.  T.  J.  Hightower,  Jr. 

EASY  APPLE  PUDDING. 
1  pt.  flour.  1  tbls.  shortening. 

3  t-spoons  baking  powder.  2/3  cup  milk. 

1  t-spoon  salt. 

Slice  enough  tender  apples  to  fill  pan  3/4  full ;  make  soft  dough, 
as  for  biscuit.  Spread  over  apples  and  bake.  When  done  turn  out, 
apples  up,  spread  with  butter  and  sugar,  use  your  judgment  for  this 
amount,  return  to  oven  to  melt,  serve  warm  with  sweet  cream. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Disbro. 

KISS  PUDDING  NO.  2. 
%  cup  sugar.  2  tbls.  corn  starch  or  flour. 

1/^  tbls.  butter.  3  eggs. 

1  qt.  milk. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  milk.  Put  over 
fire  and  stir  until  it  is  a  thick  cream.  Add  butter.  Whip  whites  of 
eggs  with  part  of  sugar  for  meringue.  Put  on  top  and  brown  lightly 
in  hot  oven.    Flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Sibley. 

DATE  PUDDING  NO.  3. 
1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  dates. 

3  eggs.  3  tbls.  flour. 

1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Separate  eggs,  beat  whites  until  stiff,  yolks  until  frothy.  Mix 
flour  and  sugar,  add  to  the  eggs,  then  chopped  fruits,  stir  just 
enough  to  mix.    Bake  45  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Rowe. 

CHRISTMAS  PLUM  PUDDING  (English). 

8  oz.  moist  sugar.  4  oz.  flour. 

8  oz.  finely  chopped  suet.  4  oz.  bread  crumbs. 

8  oz.  sultanas,   (cleaned).  2  oz.  blanched  almonds  (shred- 
8  oz.  seeded  raisins,  (halved).  ed). 

8  oz.    currants,     (washed    and  1  lemon,    (grated  rind), 

dried).  4  eggs. 


182  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


1  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  I/4.  pt.  milk. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  1  wineglass  brandy. 

4  oz.  mixed  candied  peel,  shred- 
ed. 
Mix  all  dry  ingredients  together,  stir  in  the  well  beaten  eggs, 
milk  and  brandy.    Turn  the  mixture  into  two  well  buttered  basins ; 
steam  from  5  to  6  hours.    Sufficient  for  eight  or  nine  persons. 

Mrs.  Rupert  E.  Hall. 

CABINET  PUDDING. 

4  doz.  macaroons.  1/2  cup  maraschino  cherries. 

1  cup  pecans.  II/2  cups  sugar. 
6  eggs.  •  2  tbls.  gelatine. 
1/2  cup  warm  water.  1  cup  grape  juice. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Add  gelatine  which  has 
been  dissolved  in  warm  water  and  grape  juice.  Put  in  double  boiler 
and  cook  till  thick.  When  cool  enough  add  whites  of  eggs  which 
have  been  beaten  very  stiff.  Add  crumbled  macaroons,  cherries 
and  pecans.  Put  in  a  mold,  set  in  refrigerator  to  congeal.  To  serve 
place  on  platter  and  cover  with  whipped  cream  and  cherries  if  de- 
sired. 

Mrs.  Chester  Alexander. 

FROZEN  PUDDING. 
11/2  qts.  milk.  4  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar.  V2  cup  flour. 

1  envelope  gelatine.  1  cup  strawberry  preserves. 

1  cup  crystallized  fruit.  1  cup  pecans. 

1  qt.  cream. 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water  and  add  to  the  hot  milk. 
Make  a  custard  of  milk,  eggs,  sugar  and  flour.  When  thick  strain 
and  cool,  then  add  any  flavoring  desired  (Sherry  preferred).  Add 
cream  and  freeze;  when  about  half  frozen  add  pecans,  fruit  and 
preserves. 

Mrs.  S.  F.  Boykin. 

ONE-TWO-THREE  PASTRY  (Good). 

1  cup  (unsifted)  flour.  3  tbls.  ice  water. 

2  tbls.  butter  or  lard.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

Mrs.  Porter  King. 
PIE  CRUST. 
4  cups  flour.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  cup  cooking  oil.  1  cup  cold  water. 

Rub  flour,  oil  and  salt  together,  then  add  water. 

Mrs.  Walter  E.  Smith. 

FRENCH  PASTRY. 

1  egg.  1  or  2  tbls.  ice  water. 
1/2  lb.  flour.  1/2  lemon  (grated  peel). 

2  tbls.  sugar.  i/4  lb.  butter. 

4  egg  yolks.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 


PASTRIES,    PUDDINGS    AND    DUMPLINGS  183 


Sift  together  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Cut  in  butter  and  lemon 
rind.  Add  beaten  yolks  and  ice  water.  Set  on  ice  to  chill.  Roll 
about  1/8  inch  thick,  glaze  top  with  beaten  egg  (white  and  yolk) 
sprinkle  sugar.  Bake  in  moderate  oven,  after  cutting  into  desired 
shapes. 

Mrs.  Bruce  Young. 

PASTRY. 

1  cup  good  flour.  Iced  water. 
14  cup  Snowdrift,  Pinch  of  salt. 
1/2  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

Rub  shortening  into  the  flour  very  thoroughly ;  add  salt  and 
baking  powder,  which  have  been  mixed  well  together.  Add  enough 
water  to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  rolled  out,  handling  as  little  as 
possible.  Turn  pie  pan  up  side  down,  grease  with  butter  and  fit  the 
pastry  over  it.    Stick  with  fork  and  bake. 

Clementine  G.  Rawling. 

BLACKBERRY  DUMPLING. 

2  cups  flour.  2  t-spoons  baking  powder. 
1/2  t-spoon  salt.                                 2  tbls.  sugar. 

2  cups  shortening.  1/2  cup  ice  water. 

2  tbls.  brown  sugar.  1/2  t-spoon  butter. 

Mix  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  water  together  mak- 
ing a  dough.  Roll  out  1/4  inch  thick  and  cut  into  4  squares.  Place 
pastry  in  muffin  pans  and  fill  with  blackberries.  Brush  with  water 
and  dust  lightly  with  brown  sugar  and  butter.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  for  25  minutes.    Serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

Mrs.  Lily  R.  Mell. 

PEACH  DUMPLING. 
2  cups  flour.  1/2  cup  sugar. 

4  tbls.  shortening.  1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

%  cup  milk.  1  tbls.  butter. 

4  t-spoons  baking  powder.  Several  peaches. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

Mix  first  5  ingredients  together.  Roll  1/2  inch  thick,  cut  into 
squares,  put  peaches  in  each  square  with  cinnamon  and  sugar  to 
taste.  Take  corners  and  pinch  together.  Place  in  greased  pan,  dot 
with  sugar  and  butter.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  brown.  Serve 
hot. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Buchanan. 

APPLE  DUMPLING  OR  COBBLER. 

1  cup  sugar.  1/2  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

8  apples.  1/2  t-spoon  nutmeg. 

l^  t-spoon  salt.  1/2  tbls.  butter. 

Sprinkle  lower  crust  with  flour  then  add  sugar.  Pare  apples 
and  slice  thin.  Place  in  deep  pan,  add  cinnamon,  salt,  nutmeg  and 
butter.  Cover  with  upper  crust,  bake  1  hour.  Use  plain  pie  crust 
for  dumplings.  Mrs.  Tom  Hatton. 


184  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


CHICKEN  DUMPLING. 
3  cups  flour.  2  cups  milk. 

1  t-spoon   baking  powder.  1  t-spoon  salt. 
6  Irish  potatoes.                              Yolk  of  1  egg. 

Cut  chicken  as  for  frying,  stew  until  tender  with  potatoes. 
Make  a  dough  using  one  cup  of  milk,  drop  in  large  spoonsful  into 
boiling  pot,  which  should  be  about  1/2  full,  cover  closely  and  boil 
slowly  for  thirty-five  minutes  without  lifting  cover.  Thicken  gravy 
remaining  in  pot  with  yolk,  one  spoon  flour  and  remaining  cup  of 
milk.    Dumplings  should  be  light  and  spongy. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Disbro. 

VANILLA  SAUCE. 
1/2  cup  sugar.  2  tbls.  corn  starch. 

1/2  cup  white  corn  syrup  1  tbls.  vanilla. 

1/2  cup  water. 

Stir  to  dissolve  and  bring  to  a  boil,  cook  3  minutes.  Add  vanilla 
after  boiling. 

Mrs.  Lily  R.  Mell. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 
6  tbls.  powdered  sugar.  1  tbls.  lemon  juice. 

2  tbls.  butter. 

Beat  all  until  smooth. 

Mrs.  Walter  E.  Smith. 

WOODFORD  SAUCE. 
2  tbls.  butter.  1  tbls.  vanilla. 

14  t-spoon  salt.  1  cup  whipped  cream. 

Pulverized  sugar. 

Cream  butter,  add  as  much  sugar  as  it  will  take  up.  Add  salt. 
Place  over  boiling  water  until  it  becomes  a  liquid.  Just  before 
serving  add  vanilla  and  whipped  cream.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Bean. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE. 
1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water. 

1  tbls.  water.  1  tbls.  butter. 

Mix  sugar  and  water,  let  stay  on  stove  until  it  melts.  Add 
butter  and  boiling  water.    Boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Shelor. 

FOAMING  SAUCE. 

2  tbls.  butter.  1  egg  (well  beaten). 
1  cup  powdered  sugar.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Cream  together  butter,  sugar  and  well  beaten  egg.  When 
smooth  add  vanilla.  When  ready  to  serve  blend  carefully  with  a  cup 
of  whipped  cream.  Spread  over  pudding  and  sprinkle  lightly  with 
grated  nutmeg. 

Clementine  G.  Rawling. 


PASTRIES,   PUDDINGS    AND    DUMPLINGS  185 


YELLOW  SAUCE. 
2  eggs.  1  t-spoon  lemon. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Beat  eggs  until  very  light,  add  sugar,  beat  again,  then  add 
lemon.    Steam  for  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Bean. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

1  cup  butter.  1  lemon   (juice). 

2  cups  pulverized  sugar.  1  t-spoon  nutmeg. 
2  t-spoons  vanilla. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  lemon  juice  and  nutmeg.  Serve 
cold. 

Mrs.  D.  M.  Haynes. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE  NO.  1. 

(Kentucky  Recipe). 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  2  cups  milk. 

3  tbls.  flour.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 
3  eggs.  1  tbls.  butter. 

Separate  the  eggs ;  mix  the  ingredients  in  order  given,  using 
egg  yolks.  Cook  over  double  boiler  till  thick.  Pour  into  crust  al- 
ready baked.  Use  egg  w^hites  and  three  tbls.  sugar  for  meringue 
and  brown  in  oven.    Recipe  makes  two  pies. 

Recipe  for  crust. 
1  cup  flour.  3  level  tbls.  Snowdrift. 

V'l  t-spoon  salt.  3  tbls  ice  water. 

Sift  flour  and  salt  into  a  bowl,  adding  Snowdrift  and  three  tbls. 
ice  water. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Letton. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD. 
3  eggs.  1  cup  grated  cocoanut. 

1/2  cup  sugar.  A  little  salt. 

1/2  cup  milk. 

Cream  together  egg  yolks  and  sugar.  Add  milk,  salt  and  cocoa- 
nut  ;  let  them  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  mixture  into  pie  crust  that  has 
been  partially  cooked.  Cook  in  moderate  oven.  Cover  with  me- 
ringue made  of  3  beaten  egg  whites  and  2  tbls.  of  sugar.  Brown  in 
oven. 

Mrs.  J.  Z.  Lawshe. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  1. 
3  eggs.  2  lemons. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  slice  bread. 

2  tbls.  butter. 

Soak  slice  of  bread  one  inch  thick  in  cold  water  to  soften.  Grate 
rind  of  lemon,  mix  with  sugar,  butter  and  well  beaten  egg  yolks. 
Stir  moist  bread  in  mixture,  add  lemon  juice,  cook  in  double  boiler 


186  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 

until  thick.  Have  pie  crust  ready,  pour  in  mixture,  top  with  me- 
ringue made  of  well  beaten  egg  whites  and  3  tbls.  sugar.  Brown 
in  oven. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Avd^ry. 

JAM  PIE. 

2  eggs.  1  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  jam.  1/2  cup  cream  or  milk. 

1/2  cup  butter.  1  level  tbls.  flour. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  well  beaten  egg  yolks. 
Stir  flour  gradually  in  milk  until  smooth,  add  with  jam  mixture. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Put  mixture  in  rich  crust  ready 
baked.  Cover  with  meringue  made  from  the  well  beaten  egg  white 
and  two  tbls.  sugar.    Brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Seay. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE  NO  2. 
1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  egg. 

3  tbls.  flour.  3  tbls.  water. 
1  tbls.  butter.  1  cup  milk. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Add  water  and  sugar  gradually  to  egg  yolk,  stir  in  milk  and 
butter  melted.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Pour  in  ready 
baked  shell  and  set  in  oven  about  5  minutes.  Meringue — Beat  the 
egg  white  stiff,  add  1  tbls.  sugar,  spread  on  top  and  brown. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Smith. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE  NO.  3. 
1  cup  brown  sugar.  2  eggs. 

1/2  cup  water.  2  tbls.  flour. 

1  tbls.  butter.  1  cup  milk. 

Cream  butter,  egg  yolk  and  sugar  together ;  mix  smoothly  flour 
and  milk,  add  vanilla  and  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  all  together  well  and 
cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  rich  pastry  crust 
(not  baked)  and  cook  in  moderate  oven.  Make  meringue  of  well 
beaten  egg  whites  and  2  tbls.  sugar.    Place  in  oven  a  few  minutes 

to  brown. 

Mrs.  A.  E,  Arnold. 

MOLASSES  PIE. 

1  cup  sugar.  3  eggs. 

2  tbls.  flour.  1  cup  nuts. 

1  cup  molasses.  Butter  size  of  egg. 

Cream  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  together  well ;  add  molasses.  Put 
nuts  in  the  flour  and  add  to  mixture.  Bake  pastry  a  bit,  put  m  fil- 
ling and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  done. 

Mrs.  C.  K.  Ayer. 

ENGLISH  MINCEMEAT. 
1  lb.  suet.  Vi  lb.  shredded  mixed  candied 

1  lb,  currants.  peel. 


PASTRIES,    PUDDINGS    AND    DUMPLINGS  187 


1  lb.  raisins.  2  lemons. 

1  lb.  apples.  y^  gill  brandy. 

1  lb.  sugar.  V^  salt  spoon  nutmeg. 
1/2  lb.  Sultanas.  V^  salt  spoon  mace. 

1/2  saltspoon  cinnamon. 
Chop  suet  finely,  wash  and  pick  currants,  stone  and  quarter 
raisins,  chop  apples.  Pare  lemons  thinly,  simmer  the  rinds  in  a  lit- 
tle water  until  perfectly  tender  and  then  pound  them  or  rub  thru  a 
fine  sieve.  Mix  all  ingredients  well  together,  press  into  a  jar,  cover 
closely  and  keep  in  a  cool  dry  place  for  at  least  one  month  before  us- 
ing. Mrs.  Rupert  E.  Hall. 

BURNT  CARAMEL  PIE. 

2  cups  sugar.  ■  4  eggs. 

2  cups  milk.  5  tbls.  flour. 

2  tbls.  butter.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  with  well  beaten  ^^^  yolks. 
Mix  to  a  paste  the  flour  with  one  half  cup  milk.  Add  with  balance 
of  milk  to  mixture.  Cook  in  double  boiler  stirring  constantly  until 
very  thick.  Put  remaining  sugar  in  iron  skillet  or  heavy  aluminum 
pan,  melt  until  a  very  dark  brown  liquid.  Stir  this  liquid  in  boiler, 
add  flavoring.  Put  in  rich  crust  already  baked  and  hot.  Set  in  top 
of  moderate  oven  10  minutes.  Make  meringue  of  well  beaten  whites, 
adding  two  tbls.  sugar.  Place  on  pies  and  brown.  This  amount 
makes  two  pies.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE. 

1  can  grated  pineapple.  IV2  cups  sugar. 

2  lemons.  2  tbls.  corn  starch. 

3  eggs.  1/2  cup  water. 

1  tbls.  butter. 

Drain  juice  from  pineapple ;  add  lemon  juice,  sugar;  boil  3  min- 
utes, add  corn  starch  and  water  which  have  been  well  mixed ;  then 
pineapple.  Break  yolks  in  hot  mixture  stirring  quickly,  cook  until 
thick.  Line  and  bake  pastry  shell ;  then  fill  with  mixture.  Make  me- 
ringue of  whites  into  which  3  tbls.  sugar  have  been  added.  Spread 
on  custard  and  bake  in  oven  until  meringue  is  firm  and  brown. 

Mrs.  Jesse  M.  Manry. 

CARAMEL  PIE. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  1  tbls.  butter. 
ll^  cups  cream  or  milk.                  4  tbls.  flour. 

3  egg  yolks.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 
1  white  of  Q%%,  (beaten). 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  stir  in  milk,  add  well  beaten  egg  yolks, 
melted  butter,  vanilla  and  Q%g  white.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick.  Put  mixture  in  rich  crust,  ready  baked  but  warm.  Cover 
with  meringue  made  of  2  well  beaten  %%^  whites  and  2  tbls.  sugar. 
Brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  G.  C.  Chick, 

Lexington,  Ky. 


188  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


MOCK  CHERRY  PIE. 
1  cup  cranberries,  (cut  in  half)     1  cup  boiling  water. 
1/2  cup  raisins.  Butter  size  of  walnut. 

34  cup  sugar.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  pour  on  hot  water,  add  butter,  cook  until 
thick.  Remove  from  fire,  add  fruit  and  flavoring.  Bake  in  pastry, 
with  strips  of  pastry  on  top. 

Mrs.  Porter  King. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  2 
1  cup  sugar.  1  large  lemon. 

1  cup  water.  3  eggs. 

2  tbls.  flour.  1  tbls.  butter. 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  flour  together;  add  water  (boiling) 
lemon  juice  and  grated  rind;  then  add  one  whole  egg  and  yolks  of 
other  two.  Stir  all  together  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 
Bake  rich  crust,  prick  all  oved  with  fork  before  baking.  Make  me- 
ringue of  two  well  beaten  whites,  add  tablespoon  sugar — place  on  pie 
and  brown  slightly  in  oven. 

Mrs.  Frank  Daub. 

ENGLISH  APPLE  PIE  (No  Pastry). 
2  very  large  mellow  apples.  1  t-spoon  white  sugar. 

1  cup  sifted  flour.  l^  t-spoon  nutmeg. 
1/2  cup  brown  sugar.                       1  t-spoon  lemon  juice. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Mix  well  the  brown  sugar,  flour  and  butter  (dry).  Grease 
deep  baking  dish,  put  in  all  the  apples  sliced  very  thin,  add  an  extra 
piece  of  butter  about  size  of  English  walnut  sliced  thin  and  placed 
over  apples ;  sprinkle  over  this  white  sugar.  Add  t-spoon  water, 
nutmeg  and  lemon  juice.  Place  on  top  of  pie  the  dry  mixture 
(sugar,  butter  and  flour).  Cover  contents  thoroughly.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  30  minutes.    Serve  hot  or  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Lucien  York. 

LEMON  CUSTARD  PIE. 

2  tbls.  flour  or  1  cup  boiling  water. 

2  medium  potatoes  grated  raw.    2  tbls.  butter. 
1  cup  sugar.  1  lemon. 

3  eggs. 

Add  butter  to  hot  water,  stir  in  flour  and  sugar  thoroughly  to 
prevent  lumping.  Add  lemon  juice  and  peel  (run  peel  through  food- 
chopper)  .  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Put  mixture  in  ready 
baked  pie  shell,  make  meringue  of  3  tbls,  sugar  in  the  well  beaten 
egg  whites.  Brown  in  moderate  oven.  Those  who  have  never  used 
raw  Irish  potato  as  a  thickening  for  lemon  pie  will  be  agreeably 
surprised. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 


PASTRIES,    PUDDINGS    AND    DUMPLINGS  18»- 


AMBER  PIE  (Rich  But  Delicious). 
4  eggs.  11/2  cups  brown  sugar. 

1/2  cup  butter.  1/2  cup  cream. 

1/2  cup  tart  jelly.  4  tbls.  flour. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  egg  yolks.  Stir  flour 
into  1/2  cup  cream  until  very  smooth ;  add  jelly  and  vanilla  to  mix- 
ture. Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Put  in  rich  baked  crust. 
Cover  with  meringue  of  well  beaten  egg  whites  and  4  tbls.  sugar. 
This  is  large  pie  with  thick  meringue. 

Mrs.  Lawrence  Petty, 

West  Virginia. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE. 
11/2  cups  flour.  3  tbls  ice  cold  water. 

4  tbls.  shortening.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

Cut  shortening  into  flour,  add  salt,  add  water  one  spoonful  at 
a  time.  Do  not  knead,  pinch  into  balls,  turn  out  on  board  and  roll, 
put  in  pie  pan  and  trim. 

Filling. 
1  cup  raw  cranberries.  Butter  size  of  walnut. 

1/2  cup  raisins.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

%  cup  sugar.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

3  tbls.  flour. 

Cut  cranberries  and  raisins  in  halves,  mix  sugar  and  flour  dry. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  sugar  and  flour  and  cook  to  boiling 
point.      Put  raw  fruit  into  mixture;  add  flavoring,  pour  into  un- 
cooked  pastry.      Cut   left   over   pastry   into   lattice   strips,    place 
over  pie  and  cook  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Marshall. 

MACAROON  PIE. 
3  eggs  yolks.  6  almond   macaroons,   crushed. 

1  cup  cream  or  milk.  3  tbls.  flour. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla.  1/2  cup  butter. 

1  cup  brown  sugar. 

Make  a  custard  of  above  ingredients  except  macaroons.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick.  When  cool  add  1/2  macaroons,  put  mix- 
ture in  crust  ready  baked,  sprinkle  balance  macaroons  over  this, 
cover  with  meringue  made  of  the  egg  whites  beaten  stiffly  and  two 
tbls.  sugar.    Brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Seay. 

LEMON  PIE. 

3  eggs.  4  tbls.  cold  water. 

1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind.    Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

1  cup  sugar. 

To  one  egg  and  2  yolks  well  beaten  add  sugar,  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  lemon,  beat  until  smooth,  adding  water  and  melted 
butter.     Put  in  partially  baked  crust,  and  finish  baking  in  mode- 


190  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK  BOOK 


rate  oven,  top  with  meringue  made  from  2  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites, 
beating  in  4  tbls.  sugar.    Brown  slightly. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Guerry, 
Montezuma,  Ga. 

MRS.  FRANK  L.  STANTON'S  "BANANA  PIE." 

3  bananas.  1/3  cup  flour. 

%,  cup  sugar.  %  cup  boiling  water. 

1  tbls.  butter.  1/4  t-spoon  vanilla. 

2  eggs.  1/4  t-spoon  salt. 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  beat  in  yolks  of  eggs,  add  flour  and 
boiling  water,  cook  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  cool  add 
flavoring.  Use  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue  for  top  as  in  lemon  pies, 
also  make  pastry  as  in  lemon  pies.  These  proportions  are  suffi- 
cient for  one  pie.  Slice  bananas  very  thin,  round  and  round,  place 
on  crust,  cover  with  the  custard  and  add  meringue  and  brown 
lightly  in  oven.  Bake  pastry  before  putting  in  the  filling.  Deli- 
cious ! 

Mrs.  Frank  L.  Stanton. 

MOLASSES  PUDDING. 

3  eggs.  1  cup  sour  milk, 
1  cup  sugar.                                      1  t-spoon  soda. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  t-spoon  ginger. 

1  cup  mixed  butter  and  lard.       1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 
3  cups  flour.  1  tbls.  wine. 

Beat  eggs  separately,  add  soda  to  molasses.  Mix  all  together  as 
egg  batter.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce  flavored  with  lemon, 
wine,  and  grate  nutmeg  over  sauce. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Inman, 
Director  for  Georgia  of  the  National  Federation  of  Women's  Clubs. 


CHAPTER  XL 

MRS.  THOMAS'  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 

Mrs.  Irving  Thomas,  President  of  the  Atlanta  Woman's  Club 
for  three  years,  and  elected  Honorary  Life  President  at  the  expira- 
tion of  her  term  .of  office,  is  famed  as  well  for  her  cookery  as  for 
her  leadership  in  civic  affairs.  In  answer  to  many  requests  for  her 
recipes,  she  has  given  her  favorites  herewith.  It  is  fitting  that  these 
should  occupy  a  special  chapter,  both  because  they  are  all  so  deli- 
cious, and  because  the  Auditorium,  for  which  the  proceeds  from  this 
book's  sale  will  be  used,  is  known  as  the  Lucile  King  Thomas  Audito- 
rium. 

CREAMED  CELERY. 

3  cups  celery,  (diced).  2  tbls.  flour. 
11/2  cups  milk.  14  t-spoon  salt. 

4  tbls.  butter.  1/2  cup  grated  bread  crumbs. 
Boil  celery  in  salt  water  until  tender;  make  cream  sauce  by 

adding  butter,  salt  and  flour  to  boiling  milk ;  put  celery  in  casserole, 
alternating  sauce  and  celery  till  casserole  is  filled;  cover  top  with 
bread  crumbs  moistened  with  melted  butter.     Bake  and  serve  hot. 

EGGS  EN  SURPRISE. 
6  even  sized  tomatoes.  6  strips  broiled  bacon. 

6  eggs.  1/4  t-spoon  salt. 

Break  eggs  whole  into  tomatoes  which  have  been  scooped  out 
and  salted.  Add  crisp  bacon  broken  into  small  pieces.  If  necessary 
to  fill  more,  add  tomato  pulp,  seasoned.  Bake  30  minutes  in  hot 
oven. 

CELERY  SYLVAN. 
1  bunch  celery.  i/^  cake      Philadelphia     cream 

14  cup  pecans.  cheese. 

1/4  cup  raisins.  1  tbls.  lemon  juice. 

Place  celery  in  ice  water  to  which  lemon  juice  has  been  added; 
later  fill  celery  stalks  with  mixture  of  chopped  nuts,  raisins,  cheese 
and  lemon  juice  and  serve  cold. 

CREAMED  SWEET  BREADS  EN  CASSEROLE. 
1  lb.  sweetbreads.  3  tbls.  butter. 

11/2  cups  milk.  1/2  cup  rolled  bread  crumbs. 

Parboil  sweetbreads  in  salt  water;  then  break  apart  in  small 
pieces.  Mix  with  cream  sauce  in  casserole  and  top  with  bread 
crumbs  and  melted  butter,  bake  and  serve  hot. 


192  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


SPONGE  CAKE. 
1  cup  sugar.  1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

4  eggs.  3  tbls.  water. 

1  cup  flour.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

11/2  this,  corn  starch. 
Beat  eggs  separately,  cream  sugar  and  yolks,  sift  corn  starch, 
flour  and  baking-powder,  and  mix  all  together,  adding  whites  of 
eggs  last.    Flavor. 

SYLVAN  CREAM. 
1  pf.  milk.  1/2  pkg.  gelatine. 

4  eggs.  1  cup  cream. 

34  cups  sugar.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Make  boiled  custard  of  milk,  yolks  of  eggs,  and  sugar.  Dissolve 
gelatine  in  tepid  water,  and  stir  into  custard.  When  cooled  and 
beginning  to  congeal,  stir  slowly  in  beaten  whites.  Fold  in  whipped 
cream,  and  flavor.    Let  cool. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 
1  qt.  very  thick  cream.  1  cup  blanched  almonds. 

1/2  lb.  marshmallows.  1/2  cup  crystallized  cherries. 

14  pkg.  gelatine.  1  t-spoon  vanilla  or  cherry. 

4  tbls.  sugar. 

Whip  cream  stiff.  Cut  marshmallows  into  quarters.  Add  to 
beaten  cream,  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  tepid  water,  sugar, 
fruit  and  nuts.    Let  set  until  thoroughly  chilled. 

HARD  SAUCE. 
1  tbls.  butter,    (creamery).  1  egg. 

1  cup  sugar.  Nutmeg  flavoring. 

Cream  butter,  yolk  of  egg  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  whites ;  f la- 
vorvor  with  nutmeg. 

TEA  CAKES  NO  1. 
10  eggs.  1  t-spoon  soda. 

1/2  lb.  butter.  1  lemon  juice  and  rind. 

3  lbs.  sugar. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  well  beaten;  beat  whites 
stiff;  put  soda  into  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind,  and  stir  in  batter. 
Add  flour  and  work  well.  If  not  thick  enough,  add  more  flour.  Roll 
thin,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake. 

TEA  CAKES  NO  2. 

2  eggs.  2  cups  flour. 

8  tbls.  sugar.  1  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

2  tbls.  butter  or  lard. 

Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  butter.  Mix  with  flour,  roll  thin,  cut  and 
bake  on  buttered  pan. 

RICH  FRUIT  CAKE. 
12  eggs.  1  teacup  Karo  syrup. 


MRS.  THOMAS'  RECIPES  193 


11/2  lb.  butter.  1  cup  wine. 

11/2  lb.  flour.  1  level  t-spoon  soda. 

4  fbs.  raisins.  1  lb.  English  walnuts. 

3  lbs.  currants.  1  lb.  crystallized  cherries. 
11/2  lbs.  citron.  V2  lb-  crystallized  pineapple. 
1  lb.  pecans.  1  t-spoon  allspice. 

1  t-spoon  cloves.  1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

1  nutmeg  grated.  1/2  lb.  flour  to  flour  fruit. 

Separate  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs ;  beat  half  of  the  yolks  with 
half  of  the  sugar ;  cream  the  butter  with  the  other  half  and  mix  all 
together.  Add  half  the  flour ;  then  whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  the 
other  half  of  the  flour.  Add  the  syrup  with  soda  beaten  in,  and  add 
the  ground  spice.  Lastly  add  the  fruit,  which  has  been  dredged  in 
flour.  Stir  quickly  into  batter.  Cut  citron  into  thin  strips  and  lay 
across  bottom  in  order  to  hold  batter  together.  It  is  sometimes  nec- 
essary to  put  several  thicknesses  of  paper  in  bottom  of  pan  to  pre- 
vent burning.  Bake  slowly  about  six  hours — pour  wine  over  cake 
when  baked.    Half  this  quantity  makes  nice  size  cake. 

DELICIOUS  LIGHT  BREAD  OR  ROLLS. 

1  Fleischmann's  yeast  cake.  2  tbls.  water. 

2  cups  milk.  2  tbls.  sugar. 
8I/2  cups  sift'^d  flour.  1  t-spoon  salt. 
1  tbls.  lard.                                       1  egg. 

1  tbls.  butter. 

Let  milk  come  to  a  boil,  and  then  cool  till  tepid.  Dissolve 
yeast  in  water  and  sugar  and  add  milk.  Add  II/2  cups  flour  and 
mix  this  for  sponge,  beating  till  smooth.  Let  stand  about  one 
hour.  Then  cream  butter,  lard,  and  salt;  beat  egg  separately,  add 
sponge  and  mix  thoroughly.  Add  remainder  of  flour,  one  cup 
at  a  time  (about  7  cups).  Knead  until  smooth.  Let  rise  2  or 
2  1/2  hours,  to  double  its  former  size ;  knead  again  with  a  little 
flour,  form,  place  in  greased  pans  and  bake  about  35  minutes. 

SPOON  BREAD. 
1  qt.  milk.  2  level  tbls.  baking  powder. 

1  cup  corn  meal.  1  tbls.  sugar. 

4  eggs.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

Let  milk  come  to  boil;  beat  egg-whites  and  yolks  separately. 
Add  to  milk,  meal,  sugar,  salt — egg  yolks  and  baking  powder  mixed, 
and  lastly,  the  beaten  whites.  Turn  into  well  greased  baking  dish, 
bake  until  light  brown,  and  double  in  bulk.  Serve  hot  in  baking 
dish.    This  bread  is  soft  when  done,  and  should  be  eaten  hot. 

BUTTERMILK  SPOON  BREAD. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  1/2  cup  meal. 

1  pt  buttermilk.  3  eggs. 

1  tbls.  butter.  1  level  t-spoon  soda. 

Put  soda  in  milk ;  add  egg-yolks,  then  melted  butter ;  gradually 


194  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


beat  in  meal,  and  lastly  add  beaten  whites.  The  batter  must  be  thin, 
so  if  necessary,  use  less  meal.  Bake  in  well-greased  baking  dish, 
and  serve  hot  with  butter. 

SIMPLE  ROLLS. 

1  pt.  milk.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

2  tbls.  lard.  2  qts.  flour. 

1  tbls.  sugar.  I/4.  cup  tepid  water. 

Heat  milk  to  boil,  let  cool  till  tepid ;  add  lard,  sugar  and  salt. 
Dissolve  Fleischmann's  yeast  cake  in  tepid  water,  add  to  above; 
then  add  flour  slowly,  beating  constantly  in  bucket  or  break-mixer. 
Before  dough  gets  too  heavy  to  beat,  put  in  warm  place  to  rise.  The 
more  it  is  beaten,  the  quicker  it  will  rise.  When  risen,  add  sufficient 
flour  to  make  dough  stiff  enough  to  be  rolled ;  then  put  three  balls 
of  dough  into  each  ring  of  a  muffin  pan,  rub  surface  with  beaten 
egg,  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk,  and  bake. 

SYLVAN  BARBECUED  LAMB. 
Medium  sized  lamb  roast.  2  tbls.  Worcester  Sauce. 

1/4  cup  tomato  catsup.  1  t-spoon  pepper. 

1  cup  vinegar.  '  1  t-spoon  salt. 

11/2  cups  water.  1/2  cup  chopped  onions. 

Mix  all  together,  pour  over  lamb,  and  bake  till  tender. 

CRYSTALLIZED  APPLES. 
6  firm  apples.  2  cups  water. 

2  cups  sugar.  3  tbls.  butter. 

Peel  and  core  6  firm,  well  shaped  apples ;  slice  into  three  pieces 
(circles).  Boil  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  20  minutes;  add  apples, 
placing  flat  in  the  pan,  and  1  layer  deep,  putting  butter  in  center  of 
each  ring.    Bake  in  hot  oven  and  serve  cold. 

EGGS  A  LA  SYLVAN. 
8  eggs.  1/2  cup  almonds. 

11/2  cups  milk.  ■  6  strips  broiled  bacon. 

3  tbls.  butter.  1  cup  toasted  bread  crumbs. 
1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

"Put  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs  in  buttered  casserole,  alternating 
with  bread  crumbs,  until  dish  is  filled,  then  pour  over  hot  milk  with 
melted  butter.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs  moistened  in  melted  but- 
ter, bake  and  serve  hot. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 
11/2  tbls.  white  sugar.  1  pt.  scalded  milk. 

3  eggs.  1  tbls.  water. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1/2  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Melt  brown  sugar;  stir  constantly;  beat  eggs  slightly;  stir 
melted  sugar  into  boiling  milk,  add  eggs  white  sugar  and  flavoring. 
Bake  in  quick  oven  and  serve  cold. 


MRS.  THOMAS'  RECIPES  195 


RABUN  POTATOES. 

14  lb.  breakfast  bacon.  1/2  cup  bread  crumbs. 

3  green  peppers.  1  tbls.    butter   or   bacon   drip- 
6  large  Irish  potatoes.  pings. 

Cream  SaucQ  For  Same. 
114  cups  milk.  1  tbls.    butter    or    bacon    drip- 

2  tbls.  flour.  pings. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

Boil  and  slice  potatoes ;  broil  bacon.     Place  in  casserole  in 

layers,  the  potatoes,  bacon,  peppers  cut  in  strips,  the  cream  sauce, 

alternating  until  dish  is  filled.    Place  on  top  the  cream  sauce,  butter 

(or  drippings)  and  bread  crumbs.    Bake  and  serve  hot  in  casserole. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  "WOMAN'S  CLUB." 
(Serves  25). 
1  large  hen.  1  can  pimentos. 

4  sets  brains.  1  lb.  breakfast  bacon. 

1  bottle  stuffed  olives.  1  can  mushrooms. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.                  1  cup  rice. 

Clean  brains,  removing  outside  membrane.  Cook  in  boiling 
water  about  20  minutes,  drain  and  cut  fine.  Boil  chicken  until  meat 
is  very  tender,  cut  in  small  pieces,  crisp  bacon,  cut  in  pieces,  cut 
pimentos  fine,  olives  each  into  3  pieces,  cook  rice  about  half  done, 
finish  cooking  in  chicken  broth,  then  add  above  ingredients- 
cook  slowly  until  mixture  is  fairly  thick.  Cream  sauce  may  be 
added  if  there  isn't  enough  chicken  broth.  Serve  in  timbals  or  on 
rounds  of  toast. 

CUCUMBER  ASPIC. 

2  cucumbers  (fresh).  1  can  sliced  pineapple. 

3  lemons  (juice).  2  tbls.  gelatine. 

3  tbls.  sugar.  1  pint  hot  water. 

1  tbls.  green  coloring. 

Add  sugar  and  lemon  juice  to  hot  water,  stirring  gelatin  which 
has  been  previously  dissolved  in  Yi  cup  cold  water  then  add  juice  of 
pineapple,  coloring,  then  cool.  Mix  in  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces, 
cucumber  peeled  and  grated  fine  (if  seeds  of  cucumber  are  large 
and  tough  discard  them).  Mixture  may  be  poured  in  fancy  molds 
or  large  square  pan  and  cut  in  any  desired  shape.  Serve  on  lettuce 
with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  I.  Thomas. 

DELICIOUS  DATE  AND  NUT  SQUARES. 

1  package  dates.  l^  cup  flour. 

1  cup  pecan  (meats).  1  tbls.  water. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

1  tbls.  butter.  1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

1  ^'g%- 

Combine  %%%,  sugar,  water  and  flour.     Add  baking  powder, 
nuts  then  dates  which  have  been  cut  in  4  pieces  (stones  discarded). 


196  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


This  mixture  will  be  very  thick,  add  flavoring.  Put  butter  in  shal- 
low-baking pan  to  prevent  sticking.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven, 
placing  vessel  of  hot  water  under  pan  to  keep  mixture  moist  while 
cooking.    When  cooked  to  golden  brown  cut  in  squares. 

SUGARED  PECANS. 

1  cup  pecan  (meats).  1  cup  granulated  sugar. 
%  cup  water.                                    1  cup  sugar  X  X  X  X. 

Boil  granulated  sugar  and  water  to  soft  ball  degree,  drop  pe- 
cans (one  at  a  time)  in  hot  syrup,  dip  out,  roll  separately  in  pow- 
dered sugar  which  has  been  sprinkled  generously  on  a  marble  slab — 
lay  on  waxed  paper. 

MOCK  SWEET  BREADS. 
Delicious  Filling  For  Timbals. 

2  sets  brains.  l-i/o  cups  milk. 
i/o  lb.  bacon.                                      2  tbls.  butter. 

1  can  mushrooms.  2  tbls.  flour. 

6  eggs.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Clean  brains — removing  outside  membrane,  cook  in  cup  of  boil- 
ing water  about  20  minutes,  crisp  bacon,  break  in  small  pieces,  add 
with  eggs  hard  boiled  and  chopped.  Mix  in  mushrooms,  stir  all 
together  in  cream  sauce  (made  from  ingredients  column  2).  Melt 
butter  in  small  pan  over  slow  fire,  add  flour,  blend  to  a  paste,  stir 
in  the  scalded  milk,  beat  till  sauce  is  creamy. 

BRAIN  CUTLETS. 
1  set  brains.  1  cup  Post  Toasties. 

1  cup  tomato  sauce.  1  egg. 

1  lemon.  Parsley. 

Clean  brains  well,  mash  and  stand  in  salt  water  Yz  hour.  Slice 
in  4  slices,  roll  each  slice  in  well  beaten  egg,  then  in  Post  Toasties, 
fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce  and  garnish  with  sliced 
lemon  and  parsley. 

CHICKEN  FILLING  FOR  TIMBALS. 
1  hen.  1  tbls.  flour. 

1  can  mushrooms.  1  tbls.  butter. 

3  eggs.  Salt  and  pepper. 
1  cup  milk. 

Boil  chicken  until  tender,  cut  dark  meat  in  dice,  mix  chicken, 
mushrooms,  eggs  hard-boiled  and  chopped  with  cream  sauce  made 
from  ingredients  column  2. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

2-1/4  cups  white  meat  chicken.       l-|/2  cups  mayonnaise. 

l-'/2  cups  celery.  I-I/2  cups  almonds  (shelled). 

l-i/o  cups  Malaga  grapes. 

Use  white  meat  of  chicken  from  above  recipe,  peel  and  remove 
seed  from  grapes,  cut  celery  in  small  pieces,  cut  chicken  in  dice,  mix 
all  together  with  mayonnaise.    Serve  on  hearts  of  lettuce. 


CHAPTER  XII. 


THRIFT  CHAPTER. 


Recipes  Compiled  by  Mrs.  E.  B.  Havis,  Jr. 
Co-Chair.  Sudie  Heard  Memorial  Com. 

IN  MEMORIAM,  SUDIE  HEARD,  CHAIRMAN. 

It  is  eminently  fitting  that  this  chapter  of  this  book  should  be 
prefaced  by  a  few  words  concerning  one  who  during  the  war  period 
stood  for  Thrift  in  its  every  phase.  Mrs.  Heard  talked  thrift ;  she 
worked  for  thrift;  she  lived  thrift,  because  it  was  the  duty  of  the 
moment ;  it  was  the  call  of  her  Government  to  her  patriotism.  She 
answered  this  call  as  she  did  every  other  call  to  duty,  with  every 
fibre  of  her  whole  being.  She  never  did  anything  in  a  half  hearted 
way. 

When  the  cook  book  was  planned,  her  ready  response  to  the  sug- 
gestion of  a  Thrift  Chapter,  and  her  acceptance  of  the  responsibility 
of  such  a  chapter,  gave  encouragement  to  those  in  charge,  but  the 
call  to  "Come  up  Higher"  came  to  her,  and  like  a  tired  little  child 
she  lay  down  to  rest,  secure  in  the  thought  that  in  the  very  love  and 
co-operative  spirit  her  example  had  engendered,  those  who  loved 
her  would  carry  on  her  work  to  completion. 

It  is  in  this  spirit,  the  desire  to  go  on  with  her  work,  as  nearly 
as  possible  in  her  way,  in  loving  memory  of  Mrs.  Heard,  her  co- 
workers present  this  Chapter. 

Mrs.  Alonzo  Richardson, 
Vice-Pres.  Atlanta  Woman's  Club. 

MRS.  HEARD'S  ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI. 
1  lb.  beef.  1  can  tomatoes. 

1  pkg.  spaghetti.  14  lb.  grated  cheese. 

1  large  green  pepper.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  t-spoon  black  pepper.  Dash  of  garlic. 

Cook  beef  very  tender,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  green  pepper, 
onion  and  garlic.  When  beef  is  tender,  add  tomatoes  and  cook  for 
about  15  minutes.  Cook  in  another  vessel  1  package  spaghetti  until  ■ 
tender.  Place  the  cooked  meat  and  tomatoes  in  baking  dish  or  cas- 
serole, putting  a  layer  of  meat,  then  a  layer  of  spaghetti,  and  last 
the  grated  cheese.  Place  in  oven  until  cheese  is  melted.  Serve  in 
casserole. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Heard,  Sr. 


MRS.  JOSEPH  HEARD,  SR. 


THRIFT  CHAPTER  199 


CHICKEN  GUMBO. 
3  lbs.  chicken.  1  cup  rice. 

1  can  tomatoes.  1  t-spoon  whole  black  pepper. 
Cut  chicken  in  pieces.    Place  in  boiler;  cover  well  with  water 

and  cook  until  very  tender.  Salt  to  taste;  add  rice,  tomatoes  and 
pepper.  Season  with  file'  and  let  cpok  slowly  three  hours.  File'  is 
obtained  from  the  sassafras  herb. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Heard,  Sr. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Hays,  President  State  Federation  of  Women's 
Clubs,  recommended  the  following  4  for  use  during  the  World  War. 
What  we  then  learned,  as  disciples  of  Mr.  Hoover,  may  well  be  kept 
in  mind. 

POT  ROAST  OF  MUTTON  WITH  CURRANT  MINT  SAUCE. 
11/^  lbs.   mutton — seasoning. 

Wipe  meat,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  on  rack  in 
dripping  pan  and  dredge  meat  and  bottom  of  pan  with  flour.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  for  two  hours,  basting  frequently  with  butter  or  butter 
substitute.    Serve  with  Currant  Mint  Sauce. 

CURRANT  MINT  SAUCE. 

Separate  2/3  cup  currant  jelly  in  pieces,  but  do  not  beat  it.  Add 
one  to  two  tbls.  finely  chopped  mint  leaves  and  shavings  from  one 
orange  rind.    Serve  around  roast, 

ESCALLOPED  CORN  BEEF, 

2  cups  cooked  corn  beef,  1  cup  white  sauce. 

1  cup  chopped  celery.  2  slices  onion. 

Cook  celery  and  onions  in  sauce.  Put  the  corn  beef  in  a  shal- 
low baking  pan.  Remove  celery  and  onions  from  sauce.  Add  sauce 
to  meat.  Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  butter  or  but- 
ter substitute.    Brown  in  hot  oven. 

VEAL  CUTLETS,  AND  SOUP, 

3  lbs,  veal  shank — seasoning. 

Cook  a  veal  shank  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Remove 
as  much  meat  as  possible  from  the  bone.  Cut  the  pieces  to  resem- 
ble chops.  Take  this  veal  and  season  well.  Roll  in  crumbs  and  egg 
and  crumbs  again,  and  saute  in  butter  or  butter  substitute.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley. 

For  the  soup  take  the  remaining  portion  of  the  shank  and  put 
it  into  a  kettle  with  three  cups  of  brown  stock  and  a  few  pepper- 
corns, salt,  celery  salt,  and  any  other  seasoning  desired.  Add  1/2 
cup  each  of  diced  potatoes,  turnips  and  parsley.    Cook  for  1/2  hour, 

WHITE  CAKE. 

114  cups  sugar.  1/2  cup  shortening. 

3  egg  whites.  1  t-spoon   lemon   extract. 

2  level  t-spoons  baking  powder,     3  cups  sifted  flour, 

1  cup  milk,  1  t-spoon  salt,  if  Crisco  is  used. 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening,  add  alternately  liquid  and  dry 


200  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


ingredients ;  beat  well  and  add  last  the  well  beaten  egg  whites  and 
extract.    Bake  in  two  layers  in  moderate  oven  about  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  B.  M.  Boykin, 
Pres.  Atlanta  Woman's  Club. 

FRIED  SANDWICHES. 
The  daintiest  breakfast  dish  may  be  made  from  sandwiches 
left  over  from  the  picnic,  especially  if  they  have  been  cut  thin  and 
placed  in  the  refrigerator  before  frying.  Any  sandwiches  can  be 
used  for  this  except  those  made  of  cucumbers,  tomatoes,  lettuce,  etc. 
Fry  lightly  in  hot  fat,  turning  often,  till  a  golden  brown,  and  serve, 
garnished  with  parsley,  sliced  tomatoes  or  eggs. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing, 
Chairman  Home  Economics. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD. 
1  head  lettuce.  1  small  stalk  celery. 

4  large  tomatoes.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  cup  mayonnaise.  1/2  t-spoon  black  pepper. 

Cut  celery  fine,  dice  tomatoes ;  mix  with  mayonnaise,  salt  and 
pepper.    Serve  on  lettuce. 

Mrs.  T.  T.  Stevens, 
Chairman  Education. 

DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar. 

3I/2  squares  Baker's  chocolate.     1  cup  milk. 
3  t-spoons  baking  powder.  21/2  cups  flour. 

Whites  of  2  eggs.  Yolks  of  5  eggs. 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  egg  yolks  together.  Add  1  cup  milk 
and  melted  chocolate.    Mix  in  alternately  flour  and  egg  whites. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Carnes, 
Chairman  Sudie  Heard  Memorial  Com. 

TWIN  MOUNTAIN  MUFFINS. 
1/1  cup  butter.  14,  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  milk.  1  egg. 

1/2  t-spoon  salt.  2  cups  flour. 

5  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  egg  M^ell  beaten,  sift  baking  powder 
with  flour  and  add  to  first  mixture,  alternating  with  milk.  Bake  in 
greased  gem  pans  for  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Brower. 

WAFFLES  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

2  cups  flour.  11/2  cups  buttermilk. 
1  t-spoon  sugar.                               3  tbls.  melted  lard. 

1  t-spoon  baking  powder.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

1/2  t-spoon  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  water. 


THRIFT  CHAPTER  201 


If  self  rising  flour  is  used  omit  the  salt  and  baking  powder. 
Mix  the  flour  and  milk  adding  water  if  batter  is  too  stiff,  add  the 
lard,  salt,  baking  powder  and  sugar  and  beat  well.  Just  before  cook- 
ing add  soda,  dissolved  in  water.  These  waffles  are  very  light  and 
crisp.  If  no  sour  sweet  milk  or  butter  milk  are  convenient  use  water 
or  sweet  milk  and  leave  out  the  soda. 

Mrs.  Wm.  C.  King, 
Secretary  Thrift  Committee. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE. 

21/2  cups  sugar.  21/2  squares  chocolate. 

1  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  butter. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla.  1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

Melt  chocolate  and  stir  into  milk  and  sugar.  Add  butter.  Do 
not  stir  after  candy  begins  to  boil.  When  it  makes  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water,  remove  from  fire,  add  the  vanilla  extract. 
Beat  until  creamy  and  spread  upon  buttered  dish.    Cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  A.  McD.  Wilson, 
Ex-Pres.  Atlanta  Woman's  Club. 

FIG  PUDDING. 
1/2  lb.  figs,   (chopped  fine).  3  tbls.  melted  butter. 

l"cup  bread  crumbs.  2  eggs,   (well  beaten). 

1  cup  milk.  Pinch  of  salt. 

Stir  well,  steam  one  hour  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  or 
foaming  sauce. 

Clementine  G.  Rawling. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

4  eggs.  1  cup  sugar. 

1  tbls.  corn  starch.  1  cup  milk. 
1/2  cup  chocolate.  1  tbls.  butter. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  thoroughly,  stir  in  sugar,  then  the  chocolate 
and  cornstarch ;  add  milk  and  melted  butter.  Bake  in  single  crust 
until  custard  is  set.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  adding  4 
level  tbls.  sugar  for  meringue. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Havis,  Jr. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

2  oranges  cut  very  fine.  1  banana  cut  very  fine. 

Let  stand  in  a  little  sugar  while  preparing  the  following  cus- 
tard which  goes  over  it. 

Custard. 

1  egg.  1/2  cup  sugar. 

1/^  pt.  milk.  1  tbls.  corn  starch. 

Cream  egg  and  sugar  together,  add  corn  starch  to  thicken. 
Cook  until  thick,  pour  over  the  orange  and  banana.  Serve  with 
whipped  or  plain  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Rowe, 
Chairman  Hospital  Committee. 


202  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


BEATEN  BISCUIT. 

1  lb.  flour.  1/4  lb.  lard. 

%  cup  milk.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

Mix  as  for  other  biscuit,  except  the  dough  should  be  very  stiff. 
Either  beat  with  rolling  pin  until  dough  blisters,  or  run  through 
biscuit  machine.  Cook  very  slowly  about  3/4  of  an  hour.  Con- 
densed milk  is  preferred  in  making  these  biscuit.  This  quantity 
makes  two  dozen  small  biscuits. 

Mrs.  S.  F.  Boykin. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

2  eggs.  1  cup  milk. 
1  cup  sugar.                                      3  pts.  flour. 

3  t-spoons  baking  powder.  1  t-spoon  butter. 

Make  a  stiff  dough,  cut  out  with  doughnut  cutter  and  fry  in  a 
basket  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Havis,  Jr. 

LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE. 
1  cup  water.  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

1  cup  sugar.  Pinch  of  salt. 

2  level  tbls.  corn  starch.  2  level  tbls.  of  sugar  for  mer- 
2  eggs.  ingue. 

Boil  water  and  sugar  together  ;-'add  cornstarch  moistened  with 
cold  water  and  cook  five  minutes.  Put  in  yolks  of  eggs ;  lemon  juice, 
rind  and  salt.  Cool  slightly  and  pour  into  previously  baked  crust. 
Cover  with  meringue  and  brown. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Savage. 


FRUIT  CAKE. 

V2 

lb  butter. 

1  1 

b.  : 

figs. 

6  ( 

3ggS. 

1/2 

lb. 

English  walnuts,   (shell- 

2 ] 

lbs.  raisins. 

ed). 

1/2 

lb.  citron. 

1/4 

lb. 

each  candied  orange  and 

1/2 

lb.  almonds 

(shelled). 

lemon  peel. 

1/2 

t-spoon  soda, 

1/4 

(level)  t-spoon  baking  pow- 

cup  buttermilk.  der. 

1  cup  brandy  or  wine.  1  t-spoon    each    cinnamon, 

14  t-spoon  salt.  cloves,  allspice  and  nut- 

l/>  lb.  brown  sugar.  meg. 

1/2  lb.  flour. 

Put  all  fruit  through  coarse  knife  of  meat  chopper  except 
citron  and  nuts.  Cut  citron  in  thin  strips  and  nuts  in  half.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  well,  add  beaten  egg  yolks,  then  butter  milk,  in 
which  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  to- 
gether, add  one  half  flour,  alternately  with  beaten  egg-whites. 
Dredge  fruit  well  with  other  half  of  the  flour  and  add  gradually  to 
cake  mixture.  Stir  in  nuts  last,  then  add  half  of  the  wine.  Stir  all 
together  well.  Put  in  well  greased  baking  pan  (with  tube)  two 
layers  of  paper  on  bottom  of  pan.      Put  mixture  in  pan,  putting 


THRIFT  CHAPTER  203 


strips  of  citron  in  layers  until  pan  is  nearly  full.  Set  cake  near  top 
of  oven  with  large  pan  of  boiling  water  beneath  the  cake.  The 
steam  from  the  water  keeps  the  cake  moist  while  it  is  cooking.  Cook 
slowly  four  hours.  When  cake  is  entirely  cold  pour  remaining  one 
half  cup  of  wine  gradually  over  it.  Will  keep  in  covered  tin  box  for 
several  months.    Keep  several  mellow  apples  in  box  with  cake. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle, 
Cook  Book  Chairman. 

GINGERBREAD. 
14  cup  butter.  2  eggs. 

1/2  cup  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

1  t-spoon  soda.  1  t-spoon  ginger. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  Pinch  of  cinnamon. 

1  cup  molasses. 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  then  molasses.  Beat  into  this  two 
eggs  and  add  alternately  flour  (sifted  with  soda,  salt,  ginger  and 
cinnamon)  and  milk.  Pour  in  a  buttered  and  floured  pan  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  about  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Hazzard. 
Treas.  Auditorium  Committee. 

BLUEBERRY  TEA-CAKE. 
1  small  cup  sugar.  1  pt.  flour. 

Butter   size  of  an   egg.  4  level  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

1  egg  well  beaten.  1  qt.  berries. 

1  cup  milk. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg,  then  milk  alternately  with 
flour  in  which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Put  in  berries  last, 
washed  and  floured.    Bake  in  shallow  tin. 

Mrs.  D.  I.  Carson. 

CHILI  RELISH. 
12  large  ripe  tomatoes.  3  tbls.  sugar. 

3  large  green  peppers.  1  tbls.  cinnamon. 

2  large  white  onions.  3  cups  vinegar. 
2  tbls.  salt. 

Grind  all  vegetables  and  add  to  boiling  vinegar  and  spices. 
Boil  from  1-1/2  to  2  hours.  If  it  boils  dry,  add  more  vinegar.  Seal 
hot.  Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Davis. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD. 

4  slices  whole  pineapple.  4  oranges. 

1/2  cup  celery.  1  cup  mayonnaise. 

11/2  cups  chopped  nut  meats. 

Place  slice  of  pineapple  on  lettuce  leaf.  Lay  in  center  celery 
cut  in  two  (2)  inch  lengths  filled  with  chopped  nut  meats  which 
have  been  rolled  in  mayonnaise.  Place  four  sections  of  oranges 
symmetrically  on  pineapple  leaving  the  celery  in  center.  Upon  each 
serving  place  one  tbls.  of  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Massenburg. 


204  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


APPLE  JELLY. 
Wash  and  cut  apples  which  should  be  just  ripe.  Put  in  pre- 
serving kettle  with  cold  water,  enough  to  cover  fruit.  Let  cook  until 
apples  are  just  done,  but  not  cooked  to  pieces.  When  cool,  strain 
through  jelly  bag.  Measure  2  cups  juice  to  1  cup  white  granulated 
sugar.  Boil  until  it  drops  stiffly  from  spoon.  Pour  in  glasses  hot 
and  when  cool  cover  tops  with  paraffin  and  tin  lids. 

Mrs.  Joel  Hunter 

"KEWPIES." 
1  cup  shortening.  II/2  cups  brown  sugar. 

3  eggs.  3  cups  flour. 

1  t-spoon  salt.  1  level  t-spoon  soda. 

2  t-spoons  cinnamon.  2  cups  nut  meats. 

1  lb.  raisins. 

Cream  together  sugar  and  shortening,  add  well  beaten  eggs 
then  the  flour  and  other  dry  ingredients,  adding  the  raisins  and  nuts 
last.  This  will  make  a  very  stiff  batter.  Take  t-spoon  and  drop 
mixture  in  a  warm  greased  tin  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  James  Erwin. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

2  cups   white   or  whole   wheat     1  cup  meal. 

flour.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

2  cups  milk.  8  t-spoons   baking   powder, 

1  t-spoon  syrup.  (level). 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  stir  in  milk  and  cook  in  hot  greased  grid- 
dle.   Condensed  milk  or  water  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  George  Obear,  Jr. 
(Original) 

SPOON  BREAD. 

1  pt.  sweet  milk.  1  cup  corn  meal. 

1  egg.  1  tbls.  butter. 

1  t-spoon  salt. 

Place  milk  in  double  boiler.  Mix  meal  with  enough  water 
to  form  a  stiff  dough.  Stir  this  mixture  into  hot  milk  and 
cook  until  thick.  Beat  into  this  mixture,  while  hot,  1  egg  and  the 
butter.  Pour  into  a  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  a  light 
brown. 

Mrs.  Harold  Carlock. 

THRIFT  CAKE. 
1/2  cup  shortening.  2  eggs. 

1^  cups  sugar.  21/2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  4  t-spoons  baking  powder. 

14  t-spoon  salt.  1  t-spoon  nutmeg. 

1  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

Cream  shortening,  add  sugar  and  beaten  eggs.  Mix  well  and 
add  (  sifted  together)  half  the  flour  and  baking  powder,  salt  and 


THRIFT  CHAPTER  205 


spices ;  add  milk  and  remainder  of  dry  ingredients.  Bake  two  thirds 
of  batter  in  two  greased  layer  tins  and  to  remaining  third,  add  one 
tbls.  cocoa  which  has  been  mixed  with  1  tbls.  boiling  water.  Use 
this  for  middle  layer.  Bake  in  hot  oven.  Put  following  filling  and 
icing  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. 

Filling  for  Thrift  Cake 

2  tbls.  butter.  1  tbls.  cocoa. 

2  cups  confectioners  sugar.  3  tbls.  coffee. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla  extract. 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  cocoa  very  slowly,  beating  until 
light  and  fluffy.  Add  vanilla  and  coffee  slowly,  a  few  drops  at  a 
time,  making  soft  enough  to  spread. 

Mrs.  Alva  D.  Kiser. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE. 
1  egg.  IV2  cups  sugar. 

1  rounding  tbls.  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  1  level  t-spoon  baking  powder. 

1  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  add  the  whole  egg,  well 
beaten,  then  milk  and  flour  alternately.  Add  flavoring.  Bake  in  2 
layer  cake  pans. 

Mrs.  D.  R.  Wilder. 

LIBERTY  CAKE. 

2/3  cup  sugar.  3  cups  flour. 

'  1/2  cup  Snowdrift.  1  cup  buttermilk. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  t-spoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk 

1  t-spoon  baking  powder.  1  cup  citron  or  nuts. 

11/2  cups  raisins.  1  t-spoon  each  cinnamon,  cloves 

V2  t-spoon  ginger.  and  spice. 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar,  gradually  together.  Mix  baking 
powder  and  spices  in  flour  and  add  alternately  with  milk  and  syrup, 
then  add  fruit  which  has  been  dredged  in  flour.  Bake  about  1-1/4 
hours  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Porter  King. 

INEXPENSIVE  CHARLOTTE. 
1/2  pt.  cream.  1  pkg.  gelatine. 

'     1/2  pt-  milk.  Small  bottle  cherries. 

2  egg  whites.  Vanilla  to  taste. 
1/2  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  one  eighth  teacup  cold  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Set  vessel  containing  gelatine  on  stove  until  thoroughly  dissolved 
then  cool.  Beat  milk  and  cream  separately,  add  milk,  sugar,  dis- 
solved gelatine  and  flavoring  to  cream.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Add  cherries — let  stand  until  congealed.  Stir  occasionally 
to  keep  cherries  from  settling  to  bottom. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Sibley. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

ATLANTA  PIONEER  CHAPTER. 

Mrs.  Lollie  Belle  Wylie — Chairman. 


The  Atlanta  Woman's  Pioneer  Society  is  an  organization  of 
women  residing  in  Atlanta  since  the  city  was  a  little  place  called 
Terminus,  in  1847,  later  Marthasville,  (for  Miss  Martha 
Lumpkin),  and  later  Atlanta,  named  by  Joseph  Thompson,  a  civil 
engineer,  and  Colonel  Richard  Peters.  The  name  is  a  coined  one, 
and  was  probably  suggested  by  the  Atlantic  ocean,  Atlanta  being  in 
a  way  the  feminine  for  Atlantic. 

In  February,  1909,  Mrs.  Joseph  H.  Morgan  called  together  the 
women  who  were  residents  of  Terminus,  Marthasville  and  Atlanta, 
from  1847  to  1870.  Fifty  prominent  women  met  and  organized  into 
the  "Atlanta  Woman's  Pioneer  Society."  There  are  about  90  mem- 
bers. 

The  organization  has  for  its  purpose  the  renewing  and  perpet- 
uation of  early  friendships,  and  the  preservation  of  historical  facts 
and  reminiscences  of  early  Atlanta. 

Atlanta  Woman's  Pioneer  Society  was  the  first  to  establish  a 
permanent  Memorial  Service  for  its  members  and  this  is  an  annual 
event  with  the  organization.  It  is  held  the  first  Wednesday  in 
April.  An  annual  picnic  is  a  feature  of  the  social  life  of  the  society. 
The  picnics  assemble  both  pioneer  men  and  women. 

Mrs.  Joseph  H.  Morgan  is  the  founder  of  the  society  and  its 
president  for  life.  The  members  are  home  makers,  mothers  and 
wives  aft«r  the  old  fashion.  They  are  not  politicians,  and  though 
the  members  belong  to  modern  organizations  for  women  and  take 
part  in  church,  civic  and  social  life,  as  individuals,  they  do  no  work 


PIONEER  CHAPTER  207 


in  the  Pioneer  Society  but  meet  and  talk  over  old  times  when  pota- 
toes were  not  bought  by  the  pound,  or  eggs  sold  by  the  twos  and 
threes.  They  have  seen  their  tables  literally  groan  under  the  weight 
of  southern  dishes,  and  the  following  recipes  have  been  contributed 
by  several  of  the  members. 

Lollie  Belle  Wylie. 
Historian  for  Life. 


IN  LOVING  APPRECIATION. 

The  Home  Economics  Department  wishes  to  acknowledge  its 
indebtedness  to  Mrs.  John  McDougald  of  Atlanta  and  Mrs.  Lamar 
Rucker  of  Athens,  daughters  of  Mrs.  Nellie  Peters  Black,  for  the 
recipes  which  head  the  Pioneer  Chapter. 

Mrs.  Black  was  known  to  all  the  Southland  as  a  Pioneer  in 
thought  and  in  deed.  President,  as  she  was,  of  the  Georgia  State 
Federation  of  Women's  Clubs,  she  utilized  to  the  utmost  the  oppor- 
tunity presented  for  making  acquaintance  with  all  of  the  women  in 
the  state,  and  particularly  the  women  in  the  remote  farming  dis- 
tricts, To  them  she  carried  the  message  of  service  to  Georgia  and 
to  the  world — she  taught  them  and  their  husbands  the  new  idea  of 
diversified  farming.  She  was  among  the  first  in  Georgia  to  see  the 
handwriting  on  the  wall  which  doomed  the  "one-crop"  idea,  that  of 
cotton,-  and  through  her  precepts  and  powerful  example,  she  taught 
them  that  Georgia  could  raise  her  own  food  stuffs.  Owner  of  large 
plantations  herself  and  familiar  with  every  detail  in  their  manage- 
ment, a  splendid  housewife  and  mother,  she  taught  not  only  by  pre- 
cept but  through  experience.  The  recipes  given  below  have  been 
shared  by  Mrs.  Black  with  many  Georgia  housewives,  and  we  hope 
through  the  Cook  Book,  will  help  many  more. —  (The  Editors.) 

GRAPE  NUT  JAM. 

3  pts.  grape  pulp.  1  lb.  nuts  in  shell. 

3  lbs.  sugar.  1  lb.  seedless  raisins. 

Pop  the  pulp  from  grapes,  cook  until  tender,  save  half  of  the 
skins,  cut  in  half  with  scissors  and  cook  in  separate  vessel  until  ten- 
der, with  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Cook  pulp  until  seeds  come 
out  then  rub  through  colander,  then  add  skins,  nuts,  raisins  and 
sugar.    Cook  until  it  jellies.    Put  in  jelly  glasses  and  seal  with  wax. 

HOT  STUFF  OR  CHILI  SAUCE.   . 

1/2  peck  onions.  2  qts.  vinegar. 

1/2  peck  green  bell  peppers.  1  cup  brown  sugar. 

1/2  peck  green  hot  peppers.  1  tbls.  salt. 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes.  1  oz.  celery  seed. 

Peel  tomatoes  after  scalding  in  hot  water,  then  cut  up.  Grind 
other  ingredients  in  meat  grinder,  put  all  together  and  cook  an  hour 
or  more  until  mellow  and  brown  looking.    Delicious  with  roast  beef. 


208  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


MIXED  YELLOW  PICKLE   ("Miss  Nellies"  PICKLE). 
2  qts.  cabbages.  . .     i  gallon  water. 

2  qts.  green  tomatoes.  2  cups  salt. 

2  qts.  onions.  i  cup  mustard. 

3  red  bell  peppers.  2  tbls.  tumeric. 
3  hot  peppers.  i   cup  flour. 

8  green  bell  peppers.  4  cups  sugar. 

3  heads  celery.  2  tbls.  celery  seed. 

2  qts.  cucumbers.  %  cup  Wesson  oil. 

2  qts.  vinegar.  2  tbls.  mustard  seed. 

Chop  vegetables  fine  or  put  through  coarse  meat  grinder,  cover 
with  salt  and  water  for  24  hours.  Drain  and  dry  with  towel.  Mix 
dry  ingredients  with  vinegar  making  paste  and  gradually  adding 
the  2  quarts,  mixing  well.  Boil,  stirring  to  prevent  burning,  until 
thick.  Add  vegetables,  boil  a  few  moments.  Add  the  Wessons  oil 
when  cool. 

GRAPE  JUICE. 

Wash  and  cover  the  quantity  of  grapes  to  be  used,  with  water. 
Cook  well.  Strain  through  jelly  bag.  To  each  quart  of  juice  after 
it  is  strained,  add  one  cup  of  sugar.  Then  to  each  gallon  of  juice 
add  one  quart  of  water.  Let  this  boil  15  to  20  minutes.  Put  while 
boiling  hot,  in  warm  bottles,  cork  well  and  seal  with  paraffin.  The 
Concord  grapes  so  rich  in  meat  and  flavor  make  the  best  grape 
juice.  This  makes  an  excellent  substitute  for  the  wine  we  formerly 
had  to  offer  a  guest  when  calling,  and  comes  ''within  the  law." 

Mrs.  Joseph  H.  Morgan, 
President  of  the  Womans'  Pioneer  Society. 

CHICKEN  FRICASSEE. 
Prepare  two  young  chickens  for  serving,  dividing  into  pieces. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  thoroughly  on  flour.  Brown 
in  deep  fat.  When  richly  browned,  cover  with  boiling  water,  adding 
a  bay  leaf  and  parsley.  Simmer  until  chicken  is  done  and  very  ten- 
der. Melt  1/2  cup  butter  in  a  saucepan,  3  tbls.  flour,  add  one  cup 
cream  or  milk  (if  milk  is  used  add  yolk  of  one  egg) .  Add  mixture 
to  chicken,  and  serve  with  waffles,  or  pour  over  toast. 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  Bell, 
Vice-Pres.  Pioneers. 

POINSETTA  SALAD. 
Take  large  ripe  tomato,  peel  and  cut  in  eights,  length-wise, 
but  do  not  separate  the  sections  at  one  end.     Open  and  place  each 
tomato  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  In  the  center  of  each  tomato  put  a  ring  of 
green  pepper  and  fill  with  grated  cheese  and  India  Relish. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Wusthoff, 
Secretary  Pioneers. 


PIONEER  CHAPTER  209 


SIMPLE  GUMBO  FILE. 

1  nice  fat  hen.  50  to  100  fresh  oysters,  (small) 

2  medium  size  onions.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
1  tbls.  of  lard.  V^  cup  sifted  flour. 

Cut  hen  to  pieces.  Bring  lard  to  boiling  point.  Gradually  stir 
in  lard,  flour  until  brown.  Add  Chicken.  Pour  in  at  once  2  qts.  of 
water  milk  warm.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  until  chicken  falls  off 
the  bones.  Add  oysters  as  soon  as  ready  to  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  let  remain  in  just  long  enough  for  the  frills  to  curl.  When  soup 
is  done  remove  from  stove  and  add  sufficient  file,  (Sassafras  leaves 
gathered  in  August  and  dried)  to  rope  mixture.  Serve  in  bowls 
half  filled  with  dry  cooked  rice.  Keep  boiling  water  ready  to  re- 
plenish pot  during  boiling.  This  is  delicious.  Will  serve  from  15  to 
20  persons. 

Lollie  Belle  Wylie,  Historian  Pioneers. 

OLD  TIME  FRUIT  CAKE. 
1  lb.  seeded  raisins.  1  doz.  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

1  lb.  currants.  1/2  t-spoon  soda. 

1  lb.  citron.  1/2  t-spoon  cloves. 

1  lb.  sugar.  1/2  t-spoon  cinnamon. 

1  lb.  butter.  1/2  t-spoon  nutmeg. 

1  lb.  flour.  1/2  t-spoon  allspice. 

1  cup  black  molasses.  1  cup  brandy. 

Mix  well  and  bake  slowly  for  four  hours. 

Mrs.  Joseph  M.  Wusthoff, 
Secretary  Atlanta  Woman's  Pioneer  Society. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

1  orange.  1  moderate  size  grapefruit. 

1  lemon. 

Shave  fruit  very  thin.  Discard  seed  and  core.  Cut  in  quarters 
and  run  through  the  grinder.  To  each  measure  of  fruit  add  three 
times  the  quantity  of  water.  Let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
boil  ten  minutes,  remove,  and  place  in  bowl.  Let  stand  over  night 
again.  In  the  morning  add  a  cup  of  sugar  to  each  cup  of  juice  and 
fruit,  and  cook  until  it  jellies.    This  is  delicious. 

Mrs.  Joseph  H.  Morgan, 

President  Pioneers. 

LEMON  WHIP. 
6  eggs.  1  cup  sugar. 

2  lemons. 

Release  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  grate  the  rind.  Beat  yolks 
of  eggs,  lemons  and  sugar  together.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
creamy.  Remove  from  stove  and  fold  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs.    Serve  cold  in  parfait  glasses  topped  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Madison  Bell, 
Vice-President  Pioneers. 


210  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


LADY  BALTIMORE  PRESERVES. 

1  medium  size  pumpkin.  Not  quite  a  lb.  of  pumpkin  for 
9  lemons.  lb.  of  sugar. 

Peel  pumpkin,  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  string  beans.  Add  sugar 
and  lemons  sliced  very  thin.  Let  stand  over  night,  to  make  syrup. 
Boil  slowly  about  three  hours  or  until  tender.    Seal  in  air  tight  jars. 

Lollie  Belle  Wylie, 
Historian  Pioneers. 

CHICKEN  PIE,  COUNTRY  STYLE. 

Cook  two  chickens,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  one  onion 
and  simmer  until  meat  is  tender.  When  half  cooked,  add  1/2  tbls. 
salt,  one-eighth  t-spoon  of  pepper,  remove  chicken,  strain  off  fat 
and  return,  simmer  to  reduce  stock  to  four  cups,  thicken  stock  with 
1/3  cup  of  flour,  and  dilute  with  enough  cold  water  to  pour  easily. 
Add  three  tbls.  butter,  bit  by  bit,  and  more  salt  if  necessary.  Place 
a  small  cup  upside  down  in  center  of  baking  dish,  arrange  pieces  of 
chicken  around  it,  after  removing  some  of  the  larger  bones  and  pour 
over  gravy. 

CRUST.  Sift  three  cups  of  flour,  two  tbls.  baking  powder,  one  and 
one-half  t-spoons  salt.  Work  in  three  tbls.  each  of  butter  and  lard, 
using  tips  of  fingers ;  then  add  one  and  one-fourth  cups  milk,  roll 
crust  for  top  one-half  inch  thick,  and  remaining  dough  one-fourth 
inch  thick,  cut  in  three  pieces  and  braid  and  place  around  top  of  cup. 
Bake  in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  J.  Sid  Holland. 

MOTHER'S  SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. 

2  lbs.  grated  sweet  potatoes.  1  pt.  fresh  milk. 

4  fresh  eggs.  1  t-spoon  ground  cloves. 

4  oz.  fresh  butter.  1  t-spoon  ground  spice. 

1  lb.  sugar.  1  t-spoon  salt. 

Mix  well  and  pour  into  a  hot  greased  pan  and  bake.  Stir  twice 
whilst  baking  then  leave  to  brown.  This  recipe  was  used  over  sixty 
years  ago.  Miss  Almeda  Harris. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

1  egg.  1/3  cup  melted  butter. 

1  cake  yeast.  14,  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled.       1/2  t-spoon  salt. 

l^  cup  luke  warm  water.  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

11/2  cups  sifted  flour. 

Dissolve  yeast  in  lukewarm  water  and  add  lukewarm  milk  and 
one  and  half  cups  of  flour  for  sponge,  beat  until  light  and  let  rise. 
When  well  risen,  add  1/3  cup  melted  butter,  14  cup  of  sugar,  1/2 
t-spoon  salt,  and  one  egg  well  beaten,  grating  of  whole  lemon,  and 
flour  to  make  a  firm  dough,  knead  and  place  in  well  greased  pan  and 
let  rise  again  until  double  in  bulk,  (about  an  hour),  sprinkle  top 
with  chopped  almonds  and  save  enough  of  beaten  egg  to  cover  top. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  from  forty-five  to  fifty  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  Sid  Holland. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

FAMOUS  CREOLE  DISHES. 

Mrs.  Marie  Hubert,  Chairman. 


FOREPIECE. 

Creole  cookery — magic  words!  So  often  a  misnomer,  being 
used  for  concoctions  a  Creole  would  never  recognize.  Within  this 
chapter,  on  the  contrary,  will  be  found,  an  intimate  glimpse  into  a 
genuine  Creole  kitchen.  Mrs.  Marie  Hubert,  herself  a  Creole,  of 
distinguished  ancestry,  and  a  famous  cuisiniere,  contributes  recipes 
which  have  been  in  her  family  for  generations,  and  many  of  which 
have  been  priceless.  The  Atlanta  Woman's  Club,  and  our  cook  book 
readers,  owe  Mrs.  Hubert  much. 

The  Editors. 

FISH  A  LA  CREOLE. 
"Nature  has  blessed  New  Orleans  with  a  greater  abundance 
and  variety  of  fish,  both  salt  and  fresh  water  kinds,  than  any  other 
place  in  the  country  and  the  epicurean  Creole  has  taken  advantage 
of  this  munificence  by  devising  strange  and  wonderful  combina- 
tions, that  are  at  once  the  delight  and  despair  of  the  visitor." 

NEW  ORLEANS  OYSTER  LOAF. 
2  doz.  large  oysters.  1  loaf  stale  bread. 

2  eggs.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Corn  meal.  Kettle  full  of  boiling  fat. 

Split  the  loaf  lengthwise,  and  toast  the  inner  sides,  butter  gen- 
erously and  put  away  to  keep  hot.  Drain  the  oysters,  salt  and  pep- 
per and  dip  into  the  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  until  light;  then 
into  sifted  cornmeal.  Place  in  wire  frying  basket  and  immerse  in 
boiling  fat.    When  they  are  a  golden  brown  in  color,  remove  from 


212  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


the  fat,  and  place  between  the  halves  of  toasted  and  buttered  bread. 
Serve  at  once.  Pickles,  catsup  and  horseradish  are  usually  served 
at  the  same  time. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

The  same  rule  may  be  followed  for  fried  oysters  as  that  given 
for  New  Orleans  Oyster  Loaf,  with  the  exception  that  the  oysters 
after  being  fried  are  placed  on  a  serving  dish,  and  garnished  v/ith 
sliced  pickles,  lemon  slices,  and  triangles  of  toast. 

RECIPE  FOR  MAKING  CUBION. 
A  Great  New  Orleans  Recipe. 
2  tbls.  lard.  6  tomatoes.  ^ 

6  green  sweet  peppers,  (sliced)     3  large  onions. 

Smother  above  ingredients  in  lard ;  when  cooked,  add  5  lbs.  red 
or  any  other  good  fish.  Add  salt,  black  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 
Cover  tightly  and  cook  for  about  twenty  minutes ;  then  it  will  be 
ready  to  serve. 

GREEN  PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  SHRIMP 

1  lb.  fresh  lake  shrimp  or  Bay  loaf. 

1  cup  canned  shrimp.  Salt  and  pepper. 

6  slices  toasted  bread.  6  large  green   peppers,    (seeds 

1  onion.  removed). 

2  cloves  of  garlic.  1  green  pepper  (minced). 
1/2  cup  olive  oil  or  drippings. 

Brown  the  onions  and  garlic  in  hot  fat,  add  three  cups  of  hot 
water,  the  toast,  which  should  have  been  soaked  in  water,  then 
squeezed  dry,  the  minced  green  pepper,  the  shrimp,  bay-leaf,  salt 
and  pepper.  Let  the  mixture  cook  down  until  thick,  stirring  from 
the  bottom  as  it  browns.  Remove  from  the  fire  ,and  fill  the  peppers, 
from  which  the  seeds  should  have  been  removed.  Fill  a  baking  pan 
about  one-third  full  of  hot  water,  lay  the  stuffed  peppers  in  this,  and 
bake  forty  five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

CRAB  SALAD. 

1/2  doz,  crabs.  1  bunch  celery. 

Put  crabs  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  20  minutes  with  plenty  of 
salt  and  red  pepper,  when  cool,  pick  out  meat.  The  crab  meat  is 
sweet  and  the  flavor  must  not  be  destroyed  by  too  much  seasoning. 
Mix  crab  meat,  celery  and  1/2  pt.  mayonnaise  and  you  will  have  a 
delicious  salad. 

TARTAR  SAUCE  FOR  FISH  AND  CRABS. 

Make  a  tartar  sauce  of  mayonnaise  with  a  few  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley and  pickles  chopped  fine,  a  few  capers  and  some  onion  juice  to 
taste.  Delicious  when  served  with  tenderloin  trout,  soft  shelled 
crabs  or  any  fish  where  tartar  sauce  is  required. 

SHRIMP  AND  TOMATO  SALAD. 
1  lb.  fresh  shrimp  or  1  small  green  pepper  (minced). 


FAMOUS  CREOLE  DISHES  213 


1  cup  canned  shrimp.  Lettuce  leaves. 

6  large  firm  tomatoes.  Mayonnaise. 

1  stalk  heart  celery,  (chopped) 

With  a  small  spoon,  scoop  out  the  center  of  the  tomatoes.  The 
flesh  may  be  set  aside  for  soup  or  stews.  Cut  the  shrimp  in  small 
pieces.  A  small  onion  is  an  addition.  Bind  together  with  a  little 
mayonnaise,  fill  the  tomatoes  and  set  on  ice.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf 
and  garnish  with  nasturtiums  and  top  with  a  spoonful  of  mayon- 
naise. 

GUMBO  A  LA  CREOLE. 

As  one  advertiser  has  it,  this  is  the  soup  that  made  New  Orleans 
famous.  It  is  a  great  fast  day  soup,  as  it  is  so  substantial  that  it  con- 
stitutes a  whole  meal  in  itself,  when  served  with  the  dry  boiled  rice 
that  invariably  accompanies  it.  The  beef  brisket  is  usually  sliced 
and  served  with  mustard  or  horseradish,  as  the  meat  course  that 
follows  when  used  other  than  a  fast  day  meal. 

6  crabs  (boiled  and  cleaned).         Large  onion  and  garlic  minced. 

1  lb.  lake  shrimp    (boiled  and    2  t-spoons  file. 

cleaned).  1  qt.  okra    (sliced). 

1  lb.  beef  brisket  (if  desired).       Salt,  pepper,  bay  leaf. 

1  lb.  canned  tomatoes. 

Brown  the  onions  and  garlic  in  beef  drippings  or  butter.  Then 
add  okra  and  cook  until  that  is  brown,  then  add  the  shrimp  and 
brown  that.  Put  into  a  soup  pot  and  cover  with  two  quarts  hot 
water.  Salt  and  pepper  the  brisket,  dredge  with  flour  and  brown  on 
both  sides  in  a  little  fat.  Add  this  to  the  soup,  also  the  tomatoes, 
crabs,  the  claws  and  bodies  of  which  should  be  broken ;  add  season- 
ing last,  cover  pot  and  allow  to  simmer  2  hours.  When  ready  to 
serve,  place  some  of  the  crabs  in  each  soup  plate  with  a  serving  of 
gumbo ;  a  tbls.  of  boiled  rice  is  served  with  each  helping  at  the  table. 
The  crabs  are  eaten  with  the  fingers. 

BOILED  RICE  A  LA  CREOLE. 

2  cups  head  rice.  2  qts.  salted  boiling  water. 
Wash  rice,  stir  into  boiling  water  little  at  a  time  so  as  not  to 

disturb  the  boiling;  boil  hard  for  20  minutes,  remove,  place  in  col- 
ander and  blanch  with  cold  water,  drain,  put  in  pot,  cover  tightly 
and  set  on  back  of  stove  and  allow  to  steam  for  20  minutes  or  more. 
Each  flake  of  rice  should  stand  separate. 

VEAL  DAUBE  GLACE  A  LA  CREOLE. 
"Much  Used  In  Ante-Bellum  Days." 

3  lb.  shoulder  of  veal.  1  large  can  tomatoes. 

2  tbls.  granulated  gelatine.  1  large  onion    (minced. 

Bay  leaf.  Garlic  as  desired. 

Have  shoulder  boned,  rolled  and  tied  instead  of  skewered.  Salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  brown  in  hot  fat.  Remove  from 
pan  and  brown  the  onions  and  garlic  in  the  fat,  add  gelatine,  toma- 
toes, 2  quarts  hot  water  and  seasoning.    Return  veal  to  vessel,  cover 


214  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


closely  and  simmer  until  very  tender,  then  remove  very  carefully  to 
avoid  breaking  and  place  in  a  mold.  Pour  over  enough  stock  to 
cover  veal,  allow  to  cool,  then  place  on  ice.  When  ready  to  serve  dip 
mold  an  instant  in  boiling  water,  turn  out  on  platter  in  which  it  is 
to  be  served.    Slice  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

RUSSIAN  SAUCE  FOR  COLD  MEATS. 
1/2  pt.  of  Mrs.  Huberfs  Mayon-    2  tbls.  catsup. 

naise.  A  few  drops  of  Tobasco. 

Vi  lb.  grated  cheese.  2  tbls.  Worcestershire  Sauce. 

Mix  above  ingredients  well  together. 

EGG  PLANT  A  LA  CREOLE. 
2  large  egg  plants.  1  large  onion. 

■  6  slices  toasted  bread.  Several  cloves  of  garlic  minced. 

V2  cup  olive  oil  or  butter.  Bay  leaf,  salt  and  cayenne. 

Cut  egg  plant  lengthwise  and  scoop  out  inside  without  break- 
ing the  skin.  Boil  skin  and  all  until  tender,  then  remove  skins  to 
buttered  baking  dish  and  fill  with  the  following  mixture.  Fry 
onion  and  garlic  a  dark  brown  in  the  fat,  add  egg  plant  pulp,  the 
toasted  bread  (broken  into  bits)  salt,  cayenne  and  bay  leaf.  Let 
simmer  until  thick  and  brown,  stirring  from  the  bottom  constantly. 

EGG  BREAD  AS  MADE  IN  THE  SOUTH. 
2  cups  white  corn  meal.  14  cup  lard  or  butter  melted. 

2  eggs.  Buttermilk  to  make  stiff  batter. 

1  tbls.  soda  in  2  tbls.  hot  water.     1  t-spoon  salt. 

1  tbls.  sugar.  1  cup  buttermilk. 

Beat  eggs  until  light,  add  buttermilk,  salt,  sugar  and  melted 
fat;  sift  cornmeal  into  this,  batter  should  be  rather  stiff.  Mix  soda 
in  a  little  hot  water  and  stir  thoroughly  in  the  above  mixture,  (add- 
ing a  little  more  milk  if  batter  is  not  right  consistency) .  Pour  into 
well  greased  hot  pan ;  cook  in  moderate  oven  until  top  is  a  golden 
brown.  Do  not  have  batter  more  than  one-half  inch  thick  in  pan  be- 
fore baking.     Cut  in  squares,  split  and  butter  generously ;  eat  hot. 

NEW  ORLEANS  PRALINES. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar.  1/2  cup  of  cream. 

1  cup  maple  syrup.  2  cups  pecan  meats  (whole). 

Boil  sugar,  cream  and  syrup  together  until  mixture  forms  soft 
ball  tested  in  cold  water.  Beat  until  smooth  and  creamy,  then  stir 
in  nuts  and  drop  from  t-spoon  in  small  piles  on  paraffin  paper. 

DAINTY  FROZEN  SALAD  FOR  PARTIES. 
1  can  white  cherries.  1  can  sliced  pineapple. 

1  can  pears.  6  oranges  (pulp). 

Cut  fine  above  ingredients,  add  orange  pulp  and  enough  of 
equal  parts  of  fruit  juices  to  mix  salad.  Stir  in  1-1/2  pints  of  Mrs. 
Hubert's  mayonnaise  and  freeze  as  you  would  ice  cream.  Serve  on 
fancy  ferns. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

SCIENTIFIC  CANNING. 
State  Agricultural  College. 

By  Miss  Mary  Cresswell,  State  Director  Home  Economics, 
Mrs.  Bessie  Stanley  Wood,  Assistant  State  Agent. 

A  healthful  diet  demands  the  use  of  fruits  and  vegetables 
every  day  in  the  year.  Of  these  the  most  necessary  for  health,  as 
wellas  the  most  neglected,  are  the  green  vegetables  which  appear 
on  many  tables  only  during  a  brief  season.  Their  use  can  be  made 
possible  during  the  entire  year  and  the  health  and  prosperity  of  the 
home  greatly  increased  by  canning  the  surplus  products,  which 
would  otherwise  be  wasted. 

For  home  use,  glass  jars  are  more  economical  because  they  can 
be  used  many  times,  and  with  care  will  last  for  years.  New  rubbers 
must  be  used  each  year,  and  it  pays  to  get  the  best  quality  of  red 
rubbers. 

When  screw  cap  jars  are  used,  new  caps  are  usually  essential 
for  success.  The  best  type  of  jar  for  home  use  is  one  with  so-called 
"lightning"  seal,  having  glass  lid  and  wire  clamp.  This  lid  is  not 
only  more  sanitary,  but  can  be  used  as  long  as  the  jar  lasts.  For  in- 
termittent processing  the  lightning  seal  jars  are  suitable,  because 
the  lifting  of  the  wire  clamp  each  day  during  processing  insures 
that  the  jar  will  not  be  broken  by  expansion  and  the  rubber  not 
worn  by  the  unscrewing  of  the  cap. 

TYPES  OF  CANNERS. 
In  choosing  a  canner  the  kind  and  amount  of  canning  to  be 
done  should  be  considered.  The  least  expensive  of  the  commercial 
outfits  is  the  small  hot-water  canner.  Some  of  the  advantages  are 
that  it  is  easily  handled  by  inexperienced  people  and  it  is  also  pref- 
erable to  other  canners  for  processing  fruits  and  tomatoes.  The 
texture,  flavor  and  color  of  the  finished  products  so  processed  at 
boiling  temperature  are  superior  to  those  which  have  been  canned 
at  higher  temperature. 

Hot  Water  Canner, 
An  outfit  which  can  be  placed  on  the  kitchen  stove,  is  the  sim- 
plest form  of  hot-water  canner.  Blanching  trays,  a  false  bottom, 
tongs  for  handling  hot  jars  are  also  included  in  these  outfits.  There 
are  several  types  of  portable  canners  on  the  market  at  very  reason- 
able prices. 

Steam  Pressure  Canner, 
Another  type  of  canning  outfit  is  one  which  is  constructed  of 
strong  material  and  provided  with  a  closely  fitting  lid.     When  in 


216  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 

operation  it  is  possible  to  hold  steam  under  pressure  and  obtain  a 
correspondingly  high  temperature,  but  since  the  canner  is  made  of 
heavy  material  a  greater  degree  of  heat  is  required  to  bring  the 
temperature  up  quickly.  This  canner  has  a  steam  gauge  and  ther- 
mometer attached  to  the  lid  and  these  register  the  temperature  and 
the  corresponding  number  of  pounds  of  pressure.  Much  time,  la- 
bor and  fuel  can  be  saved  by  using  a  steam  pressure  canner. 

Preparation  of  Vegetables. 
In  securing  a  fine  quality,  much  depends  upon  having  the  vege- 
tables or  fruit  absolutely  fresh,  crisp  and  clean,  and  kept  cool.  Have 
all  surroundings  and  utensils  spotlessly  clean,  and  carry  on  all  steps 
from  beginning  to  end  of  any  lot  of  canning  as  rapidly  as  possible. 
A  good  slogan  is  "one  hour  from  the  field  to  the  can".  First  have 
cans  and  lids  thoroughly  washed  and  scalded.  Sort  and  grade  fruit, 
discarding  all  defective  ones,  and  use  together  those  of  same  size. 
Use  only  uniformly  well  ripened  products.  In  canning,  the  flavor  is 
retained  only  when  young,  tender,  quickly  grown  vegetables  are 
used, 

STEPS  TAKEN  IN  CANNING  IN  GLASS. 

1.  Sorting  and  grading  fruit  or  vegetables,  washing,  peeling, 
etc. 

2.  Scalding,  peeling  and,  coring  (for  tomatoes).  Put  into  trays 
and  lower  into  boiling  water  for  one  minute.  Remove  at  once  to 
prevent  cooking.  Plunge  into  cold  water  to  make  the  fruit  firm, 
and  peel  promptly.  In  tomato  peeling  use  a  slender  pointed  knife 
to  cut  out  the  core  and  be  careful  not  to  cut  into  the  seed  cells.  Keep 
the  tomatoes  whole  when  possible. 

3.  Blanching  consists  of  plunging  the  vegetables  or  fruit  into 
boiling  water  for  a  short  time.  Use  a  wire  basket  or  cheese  cloth 
square  for  this.  The  blanch  gives  a  more  thorough  cleaning,  re- 
moves the  strong  odor  and  flavor  from  certain  kinds  of  vegetables, 
improves  the  texture  and  gives  a  clearer  liquor.  It  also  shrinks  the 
fruit  or  vegetable  and  makes  it  more  flexible.  A  full  pack  is  then 
more  easily  made.  The  time  required  for  blanching  varies  with  the 
state  of  maturity.  Beans  should  be  blanched  until  tender  enough 
to  bend  without  breaking.  Peaches  will  pack  better  if  blanched  for 
an  instant  in  water  below  boiling  (about  180  degrees  F.),  lowering 
peaches  into  it  for  fifteen  seconds.  The  same  blanch  will  make  the 
hard  varities  of  pears  pack  better  and  give  them  a  more  transpar- 
ent appearance;  and  used  for  cherries  will  prevent  splitting  and 
cracking.  Spraying  fruit  with  cold  water  after  blanching  will  make 
it  firmer.  Frequently  it  is  well  to  put  the  vegetables  into  cold  water 
for  an  instant  after  blanching  to  make  more  crisp.  In  blanching 
asparagus,  tie  a  few  stalks  into  each  bundle,  lower  bundles  into 
water,  tips  up,  blanching  the  lower  ends  one  or  two  minutes  before 
immersing  the  tips.    Blanch  the  tips  only  two  or  three  minutes. 

4.  Packing.  After  selecting  fruit  or  vegetables  for  uniformity 
in  ripeness  and  size  and  after  blanching,  it  should  be  arranged  with 


SCIENTIFIC  CANNING  217 


reference  to  symmetry  and  the  best  use  of  the  space  with  the  jar. 
In  placing  the  fruit  or  vegetables  in  a  jar,  a  thin,  slender,  flexible 
paddle  made  out  of  cane  is  useful.    This  paddle  is  also  used  to  take 
out  bubbles  of  air  by  running  it  down  the  side  of  the  jar  to  touch 
these  bubbles  after  the  liquor  has  been  added  to  the  pack. 

5.  Adjustment'  Before  placing  the  cap  be  sure  that  the  rub- 
ber is  flattened  in  its  groove,  without  the  presence  of  any  seed  or 
particle  of  the  fruit.  When  a  screw  top  jar  is  used,  screw  the  cap 
evenly  about  half  way.  When  a  glass  top  jar  with  wire  clamp  is 
used,  place  lid  on  evenly  and  raise  both  clamps  up,  the  upper  one 
fastened  to  hold  the  lid  in  place.  With  an  hermetic  jar,  fasten  the 
cap  on  the  jar  evenly  with  the  clamp.  The  last  jar  is  self-sealing  as 
it  cools.  The  clamp  must  not  be  removed  until  the  jar  is  entirely 
cold. 

6.  Processing.  Place  the  jars  in  a  water  bath  on  a  rack 
(wooden  one  best)  to  avoid  breaking.  Have  water  the  same  tem- 
perature as  the  contents,  letting  it  come  to  within  two  inches  of  the 
top  of  jars.  Have  a  tight  cover  for  the  vessel  to  keep  in  the  steam. 
Do  not  count  time  until  the  water  begins  to  boil;  keep  it  boiling 
steadily  for  the  time  required.  Seal  the  jars  airtight  promptly  at 
end  of  processing  and  remove  them  from  the  bath,  being  careful 
not  to  allow  a  cold  draft  to  strike  them.  In  intermittent  process- 
ing, raise  the  clamp  of  each  jar  at  the  beginning  of  each  process- 
ing to  allow  for  expansion.  Seal  at  close  of  each  processing.  The 
hermetic  jar  is  not  a  suitable  one  for  intermittent  processing. 

7.  Label  and  store  products  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place. 

SYRUPS. 

In  the  instructions  for  canning  fruits,  syrups  of  appropriate 
density  for  standard  products  are  indicated.  These  are  made  of 
varying  densities,  as  indicated  by  a  Balling  saccharometer.  Each 
syrup  indicated  by  number  represents  the  degrees  from  10  to  50  de- 
grees. No.  1  syrup  is  of  10  degrees  density.  No.  2  of  20  degrees 
density,  and  so  on. 

To  make  these  syrups,  boil  sugar  and  water  together  in  the  pro- 
portion given  below  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Strain  all  impurities 
out  of  the  syrup  before  using : 

Syrup  No,  1  use  14  oz.  to  1  gal.  water. 
Syrup  No.  2  use  1  lb.  14  oz.  to  1  gal.  water. 
Syrup  No.  3  use  3  lb.  9  oz.  to  1  gal.  water. 
Syrup  No.  4  use  5  lb.  8  oz.  to  1  gal.  water. 
Syrup  No.  5  use  6  lb.  13  oz.  to  1  gal.  water. 


PRESERVING. 

A  preserve  is  the  product  resulting  when  fruits  are  cooked 
in  syrup  until  clear  and  transparent.     When  properly  made  the 


218  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


fruit  in  the  preserve  keeps  its  form,  is  plump,  tender,  clear  and  of 
good  color;  the  surrounding  syrup  is  also  clear  and  of  proper  den- 
sity. 

In  making  preserves,  the  object  is  to  have  the  fruit  permeated 
with  the  syrup.  It  is  well  known  that  if  two  liquids  of  different 
densities  be  brought  into  contact  with  each  oher,  they  tend  to  mix 
or  diffuse  until  they  equalize  each  other  and  become  of  equal  density. 
This  diffusion  takes  place  through  the  cell  walls  of  fruit  or  vege- 
tables as  readily  as  if  they  were  not  present  between  the  fruit  juice 
and  the  denser  liquid  syrup.  When  fruit  is  placed  at  once  in  a  very 
heavy  syrup,  the  difference  in  density  between  the  two  liquids  is  so 
great  that  the  syrup  absorbs  the  fruit  juice  so  rapidly  that  the  fruit 
shrinks  and  becomes  shriveled  and  toughened.  The  syrup  can  then 
enter  the  fruit  with  great  difficulty.  In  order  to  prevent  this 
shrinking  it  is  necessary  to  put  fruit  at  first  in  thin  syrup  and  in- 
crease its  density  slowly  enough  for  diffusion  to  take  place  and  the 
fruit  be  permeated  with  the  syrup.  This  is  done  by  boiling  the  fruit 
in  syrup  or  by  alternately  cooking  and  allowing  the  product  to  stand 
immersed  in  the  syrup,  the  density  of  the  syrup  being  increased  by 
evaporation  or  by  substituting  a  heavier  syrup  for  the  lighter  one 
after  each  period  of  standing.  If  at  any  time  the  fruit  shrivels  or 
wrinkles,  the  syrup  should  be  made  less  dense  by  the  addition  of 
water.  If  this  process  be  carried  on  gradually  enough  the  fruit 
may  be  completely  saturated  with  sugar  (as  is  the  case  with  crys- 
talized  products)  without  shrinking. 

JAMS  AND  MARMALADES. 

In  making  jam  the  whole  fruit  is  used,  but  prepared  in  such  a 
way  as  to  give  a  mixture  alike  throughout,  not  having  the  fruit  re- 
main whole  and  the  syrup  clear  as  in  preserves.  The  small  fruits 
are  ordinarily  used  for  jams,  while  larger  ones  are  sliced  and  made 
into  marmalades  in  which  the  product  is  not  smooth  in  consistency, 
but  has  the  fruit  appearing  in  small  pieces  throughout  the  mixture. 
GRAPE  MARMALADE. 

Select  grapes  about  one-half  of  which  are  under-ripe  rather 
than  entirely  ripe.  Wash  and  stem  the  fruit.  Separate  the  pulp 
from  the  skins.  Cook  pulps  for  10  minutes  and  press  through  a 
sieve  or  colander  to  remove  seeds.  Add  %  cup  water  to  each  quart 
of  skins  and  boil  until  tender.  Then  put  the  pulp  and  skins  together 
and  measure.  For  every  quart  of  the  mixture,  use  1  pound  of  sugar. 
Bring  the  fruit  to  a  boil,  add  the  sugar,  cook,  stirring  frequently  un- 
til it  will  give  the  jelly  test  or  reaches  222  Fahrenheit.  Pour  into 
sterilized  jars  and  process  as  for  jam  and  preserves. 

SPICED  GRAPES. 

Soften  hulls  and  pulps  and  combine  as  for  canned  grapes.  For 
every  5  pounds  fresh  fruit,  use  2-1/2  pounds  sugar,  2  ounces  ground 
cinnamon,  1-1/2  ounces  cloves,  1  cup  vinegar.  Boil  over  slow  fire 
for  one  hour.  Put  into  sterilized  jars  and  process  pints  at  simmer- 
ing for  30  minutes. 


SCIENTIFIC  CANNING  219 


FIG  CONSERVE. 
2  lbs.  fresh  figs  or  1/2  lb.  raisins. 

1  qt.  figs  (plain  canned).  II/2  lbs.  sugar. 

1  orange.  Mi  cup  pecans  (shelled). 

Yq  tsp.  salt. 

Cut  all,  except  nuts,  into  small  pieces  and  cook  until  thick  and 
transparent,  about  1  hour.  Add  nuts  five  minutes  before  remov- 
ing from  stove.  Pack  into  sterilized  jars  and  process  pint  jars  at 
simmering  30  minutes. 

GRAPE  MINCE  MEAT. 
Pulp  grapes  and  add  1  cup  water  to  each  quart  pulps.  Boil  un- 
til tender  and  eliminate  seed.  Run  hulls  through  meat  chopper,  us- 
ing coarsest  plate,  and  cook  until  soft.  Mix  pulp,  juice  and  hulls. 
To  each  quart  of  mixture  add  pulp  1  lemon,  ground  white  rind  of 
lemon,  2  cups  sugar,  2  tsp.  cinnamon,  2  tsp.  nutmeg.  Boil  until 
smooth,  thick  consistency  and  it  flakes  from  spoon.  Put  into  ster- 
ilized jars  and  simmer  pints  30  minutes.  To  a  pint  of  this  mince 
meat,  add  1  pint  chopped  apple  for  making  pies. 

GRAPE  KETCHUP. 

4  lbs.  grapes,  2  tbsp.  cinnamon,  1  tbsp.  cloves,  1  tbsp.  allspice, 
1  cup  vinegar,  1  tbsp.  salt,  2  lbs  sugar,  a  little  cayenne  if  desired. 

Stew  the  grapes  until  soft  and  remove  seeds.  Use  whole  spices 
and  tie  in  a  bag  to  prevent  darkening  the  product.  Add  the  spices, 
sugar,  salt  and  vinegar  and  simmer  for  15  minutes.  Put  into  steril- 
ized bottles  and  seal. 

PEACH  JAM. 

2-1/4  lbs.  peaches  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  lb.  sugar,  1/2  cup  juice, 
tsp.  bark  cinnamon,  5  allspices  berries,  1  cracked  peach  seed,  10 
whole  cloves,  1  sprig  mace,  1  inch  ginger  root.  Tie  spice  in  cheese 
cloth  bag. 

APPLES  shrink  more  in  canning  than  most  fruits  and  for  this 
reason  should  be  blanched  for  one  minute.  Plunge  them  into  cold 
bath,  then  pack.  Cover  with  No.  1  syrup.  Process  quart  jars  10  to 
12  minutes.  Exhaust  No.  3  cans  two  minutes  and  process  eight 
minutes  at  boiling  temperature  (212   Fahrenheit). 

For  DEWBERRIES,  BLACKBERRIES  and  RASPBERRIES, 
practically  the  same  methods  of  canning  may  be  used.  The  condi- 
tion of  the  fruit  will  have  much  to  do  with  the  quality  of  the  product. 
The  berries  should  be  gathered  in  shallow  trays  or  baskets  and  not 
in  deep  vessels  which  allow  them  to  be  bruised  and  crushed.  They 
should  be  uniformly  ripe,  sound  and  as  large  as  possible.  It  is  nec- 
essary to  can  all  varieties  of  berries  in  glass  or  else  to  put  them  in 
enamel  lined  cans,  because  if  canned  in  ordinary  tin  cans,  the  berries 
will  lose  color  and  flavor  very  quickly,  and  be  unfit  for  use  for  sale. 

The  flavor  of  canned  berries  will  be  finer  if  sugar  is  used  in 
canning.     It  is  best  to  make  this  into  a  syrup.     The  use  of  berry 


220  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 

juice  instead  of  water  in  this  syrup  will  give  a  richer  color  and 
flavor.  For  fine  berries,  use  a  syrup  of  30  degrees  density  (about 
3-1/2  lbs.  sugar  to-  one  gal.  juice  or  water). 

After  the  berries  have  been  carefully  sorted  and  lightly 
washed  by  placing  in  colander  and  pouring  water  over  them  instead 
of  putting  into  a  pan  of  water,  pack  as  closely  as  possible  without 
crushing.  This  can  be  done  by  putting  a  few  berries  in  the  jar, 
pressing  them  gently  into  place  and  proceeding  layer  by  layer,  than 
by  nearly  filling  the  jar  loosely  and  then  trying  to  press  them  down. 

Fill  jars  full  of  fruit,  and  cover  with  cooled  syrup.  Fit  rubber, 
and  then  the  lid,  loosely  on  glass  jar  and  process  pints  six  minutes, 
quarts  12  minutes,  counting  the  time  after  boiling  begins. 

CHERRIES  keep  their  flavor  and  color  with  difficulty  in  tin, 
even  in  enamel  lined  cans.  For  this  reason  glass  is  preferable.  When 
canned  whole  they  should  be  blanched  to  prevent  splitting  and  then 
dropped  into  a  cool  syrup  to  plump.  For  sour  cherries  use  No.  4 
syrup ;  for  sweet  ones  No.  3.    Process  quart  25  minutes. 

FIGS  for  canning  should  be  sound  and  firm.  They  may  be 
treated  with  the  soda  bath  as  for  preserving  (see  p.  36),  cooked  in 
the  syrup  from  40  to  60  minutes,  then  cooled  and  packed  in  No.  3 
syrup  and  processed  for  30  minutes  in  quart  jars. 

Before  preparing  PEACHES  make  fruit  Syrup  No.  3  or  4  (see 
table),  allowing  about  one  cup  water  for  each  quart  jar  or  No.  3 
can.  Put  in  one  cracked  peach  pit  for  every  quart  of  syrup.  Boil 
for  five  minutes  and  strain. 

Sort  the  fruit,  using  firm,  sound,  uniform  peaches  for  canning, 
and  putting  aside  the  soft  broken  ones  for  jam.  Peeling  may  be 
done  by  placing  the  peaches  in  a  wire  basket  or  cheese  cloth  square 
and  immersing  in  boiling  water  about  one  minute,  until  skins  slip 
easily.  Remove,  plunge  for  a  minute  into  cold  water  and  slip  off 
the  skins.  Cut  into  halves,  remove  seeds  and  immerse  in  the  hot 
syrup.  Allow  to  stand  in  the  syrup  until  thoroughly  cold.  Pack  at 
once,  placing  halves  in  overlapping  layers,  the  concave  surface  of 
each  half  being  downward  and  the  blossom  end  facing  glass.  Fill 
each  jar  with  syrup  and  paddle  carefully  to  remove  air  bubbles. 
Process  quart  20  minutes  and  half  gallon,  35  minutes. 

Firm,  perfect  peaches  may  be  lye  peeled,  but  if  very  ripe  the 
fruit  is  made  too  soft  by  this  process.  Have  ready  a  boiling  lye  so- 
lution (4  tbsp.  concentrated  lye  to  one  gal.  water).  Immerse  the 
peaches  in  it  for  about  20  to  30  seconds.  Lift  them  out  and  drop 
into  clear  boiling  water  for  a  like  period.  Then  put  through  two 
cold  water  baths  and  in  the  second  rub  off  all  remaining  skin.  Keep 
the  lye  hot  and  abandon  it  for  a  fresh  solution  as  soon  as  it  turns 
dark. 

Select  PEARS  ripe  but  not  soft.  Peel,  blanch,  put  in  cold  soda 
bath  (1  tsp.  soda  to  1  gal.  water),  drain  and  pack  rapidly.  When 


SCIENTIFIC  CANNING  221 


packed  whole,  leave  stems  on  and  place  each  layer  stems  up,  letting 
the  second  row  fill  the  spaces  between  the  two  stems  and  repeat. 
Pack  pears  in  No.  3  syrup  and  process  quarts  30  minutes. 

Select  sound  uniform  PLUMS,  prick  with  needle  to  prevent 
bursting.  Pack  as  firmly  as  possible  without  crushing,  in  No.  4 
syrup  and  process  quarts  for  15  minutes. 

Use  GRAPES  sound  but  not  dead  ripe.  Weigh  and  pulp. 
Heat  pulp  over  a  slow  fire  until  soft,  then  run  through  a  colander  to 
get  rid  of  seeds.  Add  1  cup  water  to  each  quart  hulls  and  cook 
slowly  until  tender.  Combine  hulls  and  pulps  and  add  1  pound  sugar 
for  each  6  pounds  fresh  fruit.  Boil  5  minutes.  Put  into  sterilized 
jars  and  process  pint  jars  at  simmering  30  minutes. 

It  is  of  the  greatest  importance  that  ASPARAGUS  for  canning 
be  fresh  and  tender.  Select  tips  of  uniform  size  and  maturity,  and 
wash  them.  Cut  in  right  length  for  cans ;  scrape  off  tough  outer  skin 
and  tie  in  bundles.  Blanch  by  immersing  the  lower  ends  part  way  in 
boiling  water  for  two  minutes.  Then  immerse  the  entire  tips  for 
one  to  two  minutes  longer.  Plunge  into  cold  wa' er,  then  pack  neatly 
having  the  tips  up.  Fill  jars  with  brine  (4  oz.  salt  to  1  gal.  water) 
and  process  intermittently,  one  hour  daily  for  three  days. 

The  Refugee  is  a  good  variety.  STRING  BEANS  should 
be  tender  and  fresh.  When  the  beans  within  the  pod  have  grown 
to  any  size  canning  is  more  difficult  and  the  product  of  poorer  qual- 
ity from  a  commercial  standpoint.  For  canning  only  well  sorted, 
small,  tender  beans  should  be  used.  String  the  beans  and  cut  them 
into  two-inch  lengths,  cutting  diagonally  or  "on  the  bias"  giving  a 
pretty  product.  In  glass  they  may  be  canned  whole,  packed  log 
cabin  fashion  in  square  jars.  Blanch  three  to  eight  minutes  and 
plunge  into  cold  water  for  an  instant.  Drain  well  and  pack  quickly, 
cover  with  brine  (2-1/2  oz.  salt  to  1  gal,  water),  process  intermit- 
tently, or  if  very  young,  tender  beans  are  used,  process  for  two  con- 
secutive hours. 

Lima,  or  Butter  Beans,  are  treated  as  string  beans,  blanching 
2  to  5  minutes.  Always  process  intermittently.  Add  sugar  and  salt 
mixture  as  for  corn. 

The  best  variety  of  BEET  for  canning  is  the  Detroit.  From  a 
standpoint  of  quality,  only  young  tender  beets  should  be  canned. 
Sort,  putting  uniform  sizes  together.  Boil  until  three-fourths  done, 
peel,  pack  in  layers  of  three  or  four,  fitting  the  second  layer  into  the 
spaces  left  by  the  first  layer  and  repeat.  Cover  with  clear  hot  water. 
Process  quart  jars  1  to  2  hours.  Do  not  allow  cold  water  to  touch 
the  beets  after  they  have  been  cooked. 

CARROTS — Proceed  the  same  as  for  beets,  processing  one 
hour. 


222  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


Only  the  Spanish  varieties  of  SWEET  PEPPER,  known  as  pi- 
mentos are  suitable  for  canning.  The  fruit  of  these  peppers  has  very 
thick  meat,  tough  skin  and  is  comparatively  smooth  and  free  from 
ridges.  Peppers  should  be  ripe,  sound  and  free  from  bruises.  Pre- 
pare for  peeling  by  placing  peppers  in  a  hot  oven  for  6  to  8  minutes. 
Peel,  cut  out  stem,  remove  seeds  and  pack  dry  in  flattened  layers.  No 
water  is  used  in  the  preparation  of  these  peppers;  the  processing 
brings  out  a  thick  liquor  which  almost  covers  them  in  the  can.  In 
glass  a  good  package  is  a  10  ounce  tumbler-shaped  jar  with  her- 
metic cap.    Process  this  jar  25  minutes  and  pint  jars  30  minutes. 

SOUP  MIXTURE. 

Any  desired  mixture  of  vegetables  may  be  packed  for  home  use. 
For  the  standard  club  product  use  1/2  tomato  pulp,  1/4  corn,  or  tiny 
lima  beans  and  1/4  okra,  with  seasoning  of  salt,  sugar,  pepper  and 
slice  of  onion  for  each  can.  Heat  the  tomatoes,  put  through  a  sieve 
to  remove  seeds  and  cook  down  to  about  the  consistency  of  ketchup. 
Measure,  add  the  corn  or  beans  and  okra  and  seasoning.  Cook  to- 
gether for  10  minutes,  then  pack  in  No.  2  cans  or  glass  jars.  Ex- 
haust 5  minutes  and  process  1  hour  continuously  or  intermittently. 
With  tomatoes  not  red  enough  add  1  c.  pimento  to  each  gallon  of 
pulp.    This  also  adds  flavor. 

Peel  TOMATOES  so  as  to  keep  as  nearly  whole  as  possible.  Cut 
out  the  core  with  a  slender  pointed  knife  without  cutting  into  the 
seed  cells.  Pack  only  red  ripe,  sound  tomatoes  whole  or  in  large 
pieces.  Put  2  teaspoonfuls  of  the  sugar  and  salt  mixture  in  each 
quart  jar.    Process  quart  jars  25  to  30  minutes. 

In  glass  for  home  use  whole  tomatoes  may  be  packed  and  sur- 
rounded with  cooked  tomato  juice,  giving  when  opened,  a  sauce 
for  soups  and  whole  tomatoes  for  salads  or  other  use. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

SCHOOL  AND  BUSINESS  LUNCHES. 

Mrs.  S.  R.  Dull. 

This  day  and  time  we  keep  well  by  proper  eating,  so  every 
home  maker,  should  be  informed  about  food  stuffs.  It  is  an  old 
subject,  but  always  new,  and  as  long  as  the  world  stands  will  be 
needed.  Get  away  from  medicines  and  learn  how  to  prepare  meals 
and  lunches  which  will  keep. the  family  well.  Does  it  pay?  Your 
pay  is  rosy  cheeked  children,  a  well  and  happy  family. 

First,  it  is  important  to  know  something  about  the  person  for 
whom  the  lunch  is  being  made,  whether  he  is  lean  or  fat,  old  or 
young,  whether  outdoor  worker  or  inside.  The  man  or  woman  who 
sits  all  day  requires  less  and  a  different  kind  of  lunch  from  the  one 
who  does  not.  The  strong,  fat,  romping  child  would  need  a  differ- 
ent lunch  from  the  thin  child  who  does  not  romp.  The  playing  of 
children  means  to  them  what  work  does  to  the  grown-ups  and  grow- 
ing children  require  a  good  deal  of  food  to  build  the  body. 

It  is  necessary  for  those  carrying  lunches  to  co-operate  with  the 
one  who  prepares  them  by  eating  all  kinds  of  food,  and  thus  keep 
the  body  well.  Some  folks  pamper  their  appetites,  eating  just 
what  they  like,  never  getting  a  balanced  meal,  and  then  wonder  why 
they  have  so  many  ailments.  They  do  not  stop  to  think  that  it  could 
be  improper  eating.  Some  of  their  digestive  organs  are  never  exer- 
cised, while  others  are  over-taxed. 

We  used  to  think  we  should  have  a  balanced  meal  each  time, 
but  now  many  of  our  good,  specialists  say  if  we  get  it  in  the  three 
meals  of  the  day  it  is  just  as  well.  This  last  method  is  easiest  for 
the  housewife.  Consequently,  you  could  fix  for  some  a  lunch  en- 
tirely of  fruit.  Have  cereals,  milk,  bread  and  butter  for  breakfast, 
and  meat,  vegetables,  salads  and  desserts  for  dinner.  If  you  prefer, 
there  can  be  a  more  general  mixture  in  all  meals — the  person  and 
occasion  would  determine  this. 

For  fixing  lunches,  the  first  thing  needed  is  the  proper  tools 
with  which  to  work:  a  good  sharp  knife,  waxed  or  white  paper, 
rubber  bands  and  the  lunch  box,  which  should  contain  a  teaspoon, 
jelly  glass  with  top,  or  the  equivalent,  a  drinking  cup  and  if  soup  or 
milk  is  ever    carried,  a  small  thermos  bottle. 

Next,  the  bread  is  considered — whether  you  are  to  make  at 
home  or  buy,  what  kinds,  white,  whole  wheat,  graham  or  biscuit; 
brown  or  nut  bread,  too,  occasionally.  Since  sandwiches  are  the 
most  convenient  way  of  carrying  lunches,  the  bread  is  an  important 
part  and  the  sandwiches  we  will  put  in  two  classes,  meat  or  salad, 


224  ATLANTA   WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


and  sweet.  The  first  kind  is  made  of  meat,  eggs,  cheese  or  nuts. 
If  the  person  does  not  require  much  meat,  a  small  portion  chopped 
and  shredded  can  be  spread  more  evenly.  Have  your  butter  soft,  so 
it  can  be  readily  spread — you  cannot  spread  hard  butter  and  to  melt 
it  gives  an  entirely  different  taste. 

For  grown  folks  and  large  children,  a  slice  of  pickle  or  mayon- 
naise may  be  added  to  the  meat ;  in  this  case  you  can  leave  out  these 
made  of  salad.  Sandwiches  of  lean  meat,  eggs,  cheese,  fish  (sar- 
dines) ,  or  nuts  is  protein  food  and  for  building  and  re-building  the 
body.  The  lunch  is  apt  to  have  more  of  this  particular  food,  so  the 
lunch  maker  should  see  that  cereals  and  all  vegetables,  particularly 
green  or  leaf  ones,  are  given  in  the  meals  eaten  at  home.  Vegetables 
and  cereals  give  energy  and  heat  and  are  just  as  important. 

The  sweet  sandwiches  made  of  jam,  jelly,  cottage  cheese,  rai- 
sins, nuts,  fresh  and  dried  fruit,  give  more  heat  and  energy,  as  well 
as  some  minerals  and  some  protein.  Fat  meat,  butter,  mayonnaise 
(oil)  and  nuts  give  still  more  and  supply  the  fats  for  the  body.  You 
can  readily  see  it  is  important  to  vary  the  lunch. 

The  breakfasts  in  many  homes  have  become  rather  scant  and  I 
wonder  if  it  is  wise.  The  school  teacher  says  "NO",  that  the  child 
who  does  not  have  a  good,  substantial  breakfast  a7id  time  to  eat  it 
is  the  one  who  becomes  restless,  tired  and  cannot  study  well  and 
often  is  not  the  bright  child. 

From  the  above  list,  many  lunches  may  be  formed.  A  few 
additional  lunch  suggestions  follow : 

SCHOOL  CHILD'S  LUNCH. 
1  meat  sandwich.  6  nuts,     cracked,     picked    and 

1  jam  or  jelly  sandwich.  wrapped  in  waxed  paper. 

1  apple  or  orange.  1  slice  of  cake  or  cookies. 

2  or  3  pieces  of  candy  or  sweet 

chocolate. 

BUSINESS  MAN'S  LUNCH. 
2  meat  sandwiches.  1  jam  or  sweet  sandwich  or 

1  cheese  sandwich.  1  fruit  tart  or  pie. 

THE  BUSINESS  WOMAN. 
2  meat  sandwiches. 

1  tasty  or  salad  sandwich  which  contains  pickle,  celery  or 
something  pertaining  to  a  salad  mixture.  Something  sweet— stuffed 
dates,  candy,  slice  of  cake,  sweet  sandwiches  (sliced  pineapple  with 
mayonnaise). 

The  drink  to  be  carried  or  bought. 

Mrs.  Henrietta  Stanley  Dull. 
(Mrs.  S.  R.  Dull.) 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

FIRELESS  COOKERY. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Rowe.  Chairman. 

The  average  housewife  desires  efficiency  in  the  home.  The 
duty  of  nourishing  the  family,  which  heretofore  has  required,  not 
only  thought  and  work  in  preparing  the  meals  but  much  time  has 
been  minimized  by  tireless  cookery,  the  principle  of  which  is  sim- 
plicity itself. 

In  the  tireless  there  is  little  evaporation.  Food  retains  its 
full  weight,  flavor  and  nutriment;  does  not  overcook,  burn  or 
dry  out.  It  needs  no  turning,  stirring  or  basting,  and  may  remain 
in  the  cooker  hours  after  it  is  cooked,  and  still  be  hot  and  delicious. 

The  saving  in  fuel  is  about  SO^c.  The  heat  used  to  cook  the 
food  is  stored  up  in  radiators  or  stones,  which  may  be  heated  by 
any  kind  of  fuel,  and  require  only  a  few  minutes  to  heat  sufficiently, 
to  cook  thoroughly  any  kind  of  food,  that  by  the  old  method  re- 
quired hours  of  continuous  fire.  After  the  food  is  placed  in  the 
cooker,  the  cooker  is  sealed  and  no  more  thought  given  it  until  time 
to  serve,  eliminating  heat  from  the  stove,  confusion  in  the  kitchen, 
and  constant  watching. 

SELECTION  OF  COOKER. 
Care  should  be  taken  in  selecting  because  it  lasts  a  life  time  and 
the  best  is  found  to  be  the  most  economical.    The  following  consid- 
erations are  essential  to  obtain  the  best  results. 

SELECT  A  COOKER 

A.  With  a  steam  valve  in  the  lid. 

B.  That  is  lined  with  seamless  aluminum,  and  is  metal  outside 
so  that  it  may  be  thoroughly  washed  and  not  contain  odors  of  food, 
from  one  cooking  to  the  next. 

C.  That  has  a  thermometer  and  table  of  rules  for  heating, 
radiators  and  a  book  on  instructions. 

It  is  advisable  to  buy  the  stand  on  which  to  set  the  cooker  thus 
making  it  a  convenient  height,  and  avoiding  any  chance  of  rust  on 
the  bottom  of  the  cooker. 

DIFFERENT  WAYS  FOOD  MAY  BE  COOKED. 

Foods  may  be  roasted,  baked,  steamed,  stewed,  boiled,  fried 
and  broiled  in  the  tireless.  The  baked  variety  includes  pies,  pas- 
tries, cakes  and  puddings.  Fruit  may  be  canned  by  the  fireless 
method. 

Since  the  fireless  retains  cold  just  as  well  as  heat,  delicious  tid- 
bits may  be  frozen  in  it.  Ice  cream  may  be  made  early  in  the 
morning  in  a  freezer,  and  packed  in  the  fireless  in  the  regular 


226  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 

way  (taking  just  the  can  containing  the  cream,  placing  it  in 
one  compartment  of  the  cooker,  and  packing  around  it  three  parts 
of  ice  to  one  of  salt) .  Seal  the  cooker  and  it  will  stay  hard  from 
eight  to  ten  hours. 

Foods  are  prepared  in  the  usual  way,  using  the  same  recipe 
as  for  a  regular  stove,  and  then  placed  in  cooker. 

The  difference  in  cooking  such  as  baking  or  boiling  is  in  the 
number  of  radiators  used  and  difference  in  degrees  of  tempera- 
ture. 

A  rule  will  be  found  in  the  instruction  book  governing  each. 
The  cooking  time  is  about  the  same  as  on  the  regular  stove. 

THE  THINGS  TO  KNOW  ARE : 

A.  Right  temperature  of  radiators. 

B.  When  to  use  one  or  two  radiators. 

C.  When  to  use  and  when  not  to  use  covers  of  utensils. 

D.  When  to  use  water  with  the  food  and  right  amount  to  use. 

E.  How  to  place  the  radiators  close  enough  to  the  food  to  have 
the  proper  heat  contact. 

F.  How  to  clear  utensils,  steam  valve,  and  radiators. 

Fireless  cooking  is  done  by  fixed  rule,  and  if  the  food  is  pro- 
perly placed  in  the  cooker,  the  radiators  heated  to  the  proper  tern- 
perature  and  placed  correctly,  the  fireless  left  unopened  until 
cooking  is  complete,  it  will  be  impossible  to  have  anything  but  good 
results. 

The  instruction  book  with  each  cooker  teaches  these  rules.  The 
fireless  method  is  so  simple  and  economical,  that  every  house  wife 
should  teach  her  servant  to  use  it. 

Owing  to  limited  space  only  recipes  will  be  given  for  each  kind 
of  food,  which  differs  in  treatment  in  the  cooker.  Other  recipes 
will  be  found  in  regular  recipe  chapters. 

CEREALS.      OAT  MEAL. 
Time — over  night.    Place  oat  meal  in  double  boiler  of  fireless. 

BOILED  RICE. 
«    Heat  one  radiator  to  450  degrees,  and  place  rice,  cold  and  raw 
on  radiator  in  cooker  for  one  hour  or  longer. 

SOUPS.      SOUP  STOCK. 
4  lbs.  soup  meat  and  bone.  2V2  Qts.  water. 

1  onion.  1  carrot. 

1  tbls.  salt.  Vi  t-spoon  pepper. 

1  stalk  celery.  1/2  bay  leaf. 

1  turnip. 

Bring  the  entire  mixture  to  a  boiling  point  and  allow  to  simmer 
ten  minutes.  Place  in  cooker  for  eight  hours  or  over  night.  Re- 
move and  skim  fat  from  top  before  using.    Use  one  radiator. 


FIRELESS    COOKERY  227 

TOMATO   SOUP. 
Boil  5  minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for  2  hours.     Use  1  radiator. 

GREEN  OR  SNAP  BEANS  (Southern  Style). 
String  beans,  leaving  whole;  place  three  strips  of  bacon  or 
salt  pork  in  bottom  of  pail,  then  beans  on  top.      Remove  to  cooker 
three  to  four  hours,  using  one  hot  radiator,  450  to  500  degrees. 

BAKED  MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE. 
1  hour  in  fireless,  between  2  radiators — heated  450  degrees. 

MEATS— ROAST  BEEF. 

The  best  shaped  roast  to  prepare  for  cooking  by  fireless  is  a 
rolled  roast  from  five  to  eight  pounds.  Prepare  in  the  usual  way 
for  oven.  Then  put  roast  in  the  largest  vessel  and  raise  tempera- 
ture of  the  two  radiators  to  highest  possible  point;  then  place  the 
vessel  in  the  large  compartment  and  allow  it  to  remain  twenty 
minutes  for  each  pound,  or  fifteen  minutes  per  pound  if  desired 
rare. 

Never  use  water  when  roasting  beef.  The  fireless  process 
is  the  most  satisfactory  method  of  all  for  cooking  meat;  enough 
juice  from  the  meat  is  developed  during  the  cooking  to  make  the 
best  gravy  ever  served.  During  the  cooker  method  this  juice  acts 
as  a  self  baster. 

ROAST  LAMB. 

Select  a  small  leg  of  lamb  and  cut  off  the  shank,  and  season 
well  in  the  usual  way.  Place  in  the  largest  vessel  and  use  both 
Prepare  gravy  in  usual  style.  Use  two  radiators  heated  500  de- 
radiators.  Allow  thirty  minutes  or  more  for  each  pound  of  meat, 
grees. 

VEAL  LOAF. 
Three  hours.    Use  two  radiators.     Heat  475  degrees. 

ROAST  CHICKEN. 
The  time  necessary  for  roasting  a  chicken  depends  on  the  age 
of  the  bird.  II/2  hours  is  sufficiently  long  for  a  young  chicken 
but  an  older  one  should  be  roasted  two  hours,  and  a  very  tough 
chicken  three  hours.  Old  chickens  will  turn  out  as  tender  and 
savory  as  spring  chickens.  Prepare  chicken  by  usual  method  for 
oven.  It  will  not  be  necessary  to  heat  the  chicken  to  brown  before 
it  has  been  placed  in  the  fireless.  If  both  radiators  are  made  hot 
the  chicken  when  roasted  will  turn  out  very  nice  and  brown.  The 
chicken  therefore  can  be  placed  cold  in  the  vessel  and  placed  at  once 
in  the  cooker  for  roasting.  It  is  not  necessary  to  open  the  cooker 
for  basting  as  the  hot  steam  prevents  burning.     Heat  500  degrees. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES. 
Peel  and  slice  one  quart  raw  potatoes,   place   in   kettle  one 
layer  of  potatoes  and  small  pieces  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and 


228  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


slice  one  small  onion  until  required  quantity  is  prepared.  Pour 
one  pint  of  scalding  milk  over  this,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and 
place  in  the  fireless.  Use  two  radiators  heated  450  degrees  and 
bake  21/2  hours. 

APPLE  PIE. 

Place  in  the  fireless,  using  two  radiators  heated  450  degrees 
for  about  40  minutes.     Any  fruit  pies  can  be  baked  like  this. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Line  pan  with  pie  pastry — using  1  crust  only. 
2  eggs  well  beaten.  2  cups  milk. 

%  cup  sugar.  IVo  cups  pumpkin. 

Salt  to  taste,  season  with  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  a  little  ginger. 
Add  a  little  melted  butter.  Bake  in  the  fireless  30  minutes.  Use 
two  radiators  heated  450  degrees.  When  cold  cover  with  whipped 
cream,  seasoned  to  taste  with  vanilla  and  sugar. 


CHAPTER  XVIIL 


DISCOVERIES. 

Mrs.  Frank  J.  Graham,  Chairman. 

The  old  saying  "'Tis  the  little  things  in  life  that  count"  has  in- 
spired us  to  give  you  this  chapter  of  little  things  that  have  counted 
in  the  lives  of  others.  It  is  our  sincere  wish  that  "Discoveries"  may 
prove  of  use  to  the  possessors  of  the  Atlanta  Woman's  Club  Cook 
Book. 

REFRIGERATORS — To  keep  refrigerators  pure,  wash  out 
twice  a  week  with  sal-soda  and  cold  water. 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Striplin. 

MERINGUE — If  meringue  or  any  egg  mixture  is  cooked  in 
oven  too  hot,  it  invariably  falls.  Cook  in  moderate  oven  or  leave 
oven  door  open. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Price-Smith. 

FISH — will  scale  much  easier  if  dipped  into  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  Porter  King. 

IODINE — may  be  removed  from  any  fabric  by  soaking  the 
article  in  lime  water. 

Mrs.  Alonzo  Richardson. 

SILVER — To  clean  easily,  put  pieces  into  a  large  pan  of 
boiling  water,  into  which  you  have  put  a  small  amount  of  Ivory 
soap  flakes.  When  tarnish  has  disappeared,  rinse  in  hot  water  and 
dry  thoroughly. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Stevens. 

SHERBET— In  making  fruit  sherbet,  add  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Sherbet  will  have  more  body  and  taste  better. 

Ida  Crossett. 


230  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


GILT  FRAMES — When  gilt  frames  are  new,  go  over  with  a 
coat  of  colorless  varnish.  All  specks  can  then  be  washed  off  with 
water  without  injuring. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Melton. 

CLEANING  FLUID  FOR  BLANKETS. 
2  bars  ivory  soap  (grated).  1  gal  water. 

6  tbls.  powdered  borax. 

Mix  above  ingredients  thoroughly,  place  on  fire  and  dissolve. 
When  cold  add  6  or  8  tbls.  household  ammonia.  Make  this  mixture 
the  day  before  planning  to  use.  This  forms  a  white  jelly  which, 
when  used  in  the  proportion  of  a  cup  of  mixture  to  several  gallons  of 
water,  cleanses  perfectly. 

TO  SET  COLORS. 
1  tbls.  alcohol.  1/2  gal.  water. 

1  tbls.  turpentine.  1/2  cup  salt. 

Soak  goods  over  night  to  retain  color.  Fold  cloth  carefully  and 
place  in  tub,  pouring  over  the  above  mixture.  The  next  morning 
take  out,  but  do  not  wring.  Stretch  on  line  and  pin  with  clothes 
pins.  Cloth  thus  treated  needs  pressing.  If  goods  should  be  shrunk, 
heat  the  mixture  before  pouring  over. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Willet. 

PUNCH — When  making  punch,  put  large  silver  spoon  in  bot- 
tom of  bowl,  add  ice.  In  this  way  there  is  no  danger  of  breaking 
bowl.  Put  silver  teaspoon  in  jelly  glass.  You  can  fill  slowly  with 
no  danger  of  breaking  glass. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle. 

CURDLING — In  serving  acid  fruits,  put  a  large  piece  of  ice 
in  dish  with  fruit;  then  pour  cream  over  all.  The  cream  will  not 
curdle. 

Mrs.  Lee  Hagan. 

MINT — Fresh  mint  and  parsley  placed  in  air-tight  fruit  jars 
will  keep  in  good  condition  for  a  number  of  days. 

Mrs.  Beaumont  Davison. 

RECIPE  HOLDER — Paste  an  envelope  in  your  cook  book  for 
new  recipes. 

Miss  Cobble  Vaughn. 

TO  LOOSEN  FRUIT  SKINS— To  quickly  peel  ripe  tomatoes— 
and  peaches,  immerse  for  a  moment  in  boiling  water,  which  will 
loosen  the  skin. 

Mrs.  Chas,  Evans. 

TO  BEAT  EGGS— In  beating  eggs  separately  add  pinch  of  salt 
to  whites.  They  beat  more  quickly  in  this  way.  Then  add  a  little 
of  the  beaten  whites  to  the  yolks  as  the  yolks  beat  up  nicer. 


DISCOVERIES  231 


TO  PRESERVE  EGGS— use  one  part  Silicate  of  Soda,  (liquid 
glass)  to  ten  parts  of  water  which  has  been  boiled  and  cooled.  Put 
fresh,  clean  eggs  in  an  earthen  or  glass  vessel  and  cover  with  a 
weight  to  keep  them  submerged  in  liquid.     Wash  off  before  using. 

These  will  keep  indefinitely  and  are  good  for  all  cooking  pur- 
poses, with  the  exception  of  boiling  and  poaching. 

Do  not  wash  eggs  first,  as  it  removes  the  natural  coating. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Cresse. 

CORN  and  batter  breads  should  be  made  with  fresh  buttermilk. 
Biscuits  are  better  when  made  with  buttermilk  a  little  acid. 

TO  SWEETEN  MILK— Add  a  little  sweet  milk  to  buttermilk 
which  has  become  sour.  It  will  be  quite  fresh  again.  Taste  it  and 
use  own  judgment  in  regard  to  amount  to  add. 

SCORCH — In  boiling,  if  contents  become  scorched,  immediately 
remove  vessel  from  fire  and  set  in  pan  of  cold  water.  In  a  few  min- 
utes the  scorched  taste  will  have  disappeared.  Put  food  in  another 
vessel,  discarding  the  scorched  part,  reheat  and  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Carlisle. 

INSECTS  IN  VEGETABLES— Before  using  vegetables  that 
form  heads  such  as  lettuce,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  wash  thoroughly, 
cover  with  cold  water;  adding  a  little  vinegar.  Let  stand  for  30 
minutes  or  longer.  Any  insects  hidden  within  will  immediately 
crawl  out.  Also,  your  vegetables  become  crisp  and  fresh  from 
being  in  the  cold  w^ater. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Wimberly. 

TO  SEAL  JELLY — Put  paraffine  in  jelly  glasses  and  pour  in 
your  hot  jelly.  When  cold,  the  jelly  will  be  covered  and  sealed 
without  any  trouble. 

TO  OPEN  A  COCOANUT— bore  hole  in  eye  and  empty  milk. 
Put  in  hot  oven  and  the  heat  will  crack  the  shell,  so  that  meat  can 
be  removed  easily. 

RELISH — Chopped  onion  and  parsley  added  to  any  dumplings 
greatly  improves  their  taste. 

POTATOES — Parboil  potatoes  before  putting  in  soup. 

Mrs.  G.  B.  Denman. 

INK  STAINS — Salt  on  fresh  ink  stains  will  help  to  remove 
them. 

TO  WHIP  CREAM— When  whipping  cream,  add  the  white  of 
one  egg  to  each  cupful  of  cream.  It  will  be  firmer  and  double  in 
quantity.  Whip  egg  and  cream  separately,  put  together  and  then 
whip  a  little  more. 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Striphn. 


232  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


SUGAR  SAVING — To  save  sugar  in  cooking  acid  fruits,  add 
a  pinch  of  soda  when  cooking.  If  this  is  done,  it  will  be  necessary 
to  use  about  one-half  as  much  sugar. 

PIN  FEATHERS— To  pick  out  the  pin  feathers  of  a  fowl,  use 
a  small  pair  of  tweezers. 

CUT  GLASS — When  washing  cut  glass,  add  a  little  borax  to 
the  suds  and  rinse  in  water  with  a  few  drops  of  bluing. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Rowe. 

INSECTS — The  best  remedy  for  ants  is  cayenne  pepper  spread 
on  shelves.     Moths  will  avoid  clothes  sprinkled  with  turpentine. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 

POTATOES — May  be  baked  more  quickly  by  putting  them  in 
boiling  water,  for  a  few  minutes,  before  putting  them  into  the  oven. 

Mrs.  George  S.  Obear,  Jr. 

DRY  SALT — A  little  corn  starch  in  the  salt  cellar  will  keep 
the  salt  dry. 

Mrs.  Clarence  Bemis. 

USE  A  HAIRPIN— To  keep  the  outlets  of  bowls,  bath  tubs  or 
laundry  tubs  clean,  use  a  buttonhook,  or  wire  hairpin  straightened 
out,  and  then  hooked  at  the  end. 

WATER  CURE — If  onions  are  peeled  under  cold  water,  it 
does  away  with  the  odor  and  does  not  cause  the  eyes  to  smart. 

ICING — To  prevent  icing  from  running,  lightly  dust  cake 
with  corn  starch. 

SCORCH  STAINS — may  be  removed  immediately  with  dry 
starch  and  then  sponging  off.    Repeat  if  necessary. 

TAR — Every  Mother  of  small  children  will  be  glad  to  know 
that  tar  may  be  removed  from  clothing  by  rubbing  with  kerosene 
or  turpentine. 

NO  STARCH — Do  not  put  cotton  articles  that  contain  starch 
away  for  the  winter,  as  the  starch  will  cause  them  to  rot. 

SHELVES — Varnishing  or  enameling  shelves  or  the  inside  of 
drawers,  looks  better,  and  they  can  be  kept  cleaner,  than  by  use  of 
paper. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 

DUST — Left  over  tea  leaves  kept  moist  in  a  cup  and  sprinkled 
on  a  floor  to  be  swept,  will  prevent  any  dust. 

IRON  RUST — To  remove  iron  rust  from  white  material,  wet 
the  goods  with  lemon  juice,  rub  on  salt  and  put  in  sunshine. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Minson. 


DISCOVERIES  233 


GRAVY Keep  a  pot  of  beef  extract  on  hand  to  use  for  soup 

on  quick  notice,  or  for  gravy.     If  for  soup,  cook  vegetables  in  clear 
water,  strain  and  add  one  or  more  teaspoonsful  of  the  extract. 

BROOMS — Always  buy  a  new  broom  before  the  old  one  is 
worn  out,'  so  that  the  old  one  may  be  used  for  rough  work. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Myers. 

DUST— Use  a  paint  brush  to  remove  dust  from  the  cracks 

and  carving  on  furniture. 

Mrs.  E.  G.  Foreacre. 

ODORS — After  peeling  onions  rub  salt  or  a  raw  potato  on 
hands  and  you  will  find  that  the  onion  odor  will  disappear. 

CURDLED  MAYONNAISE— When  mayonnaise  curdles  the 
quickest  way  to  bring  it  back  is  to  take  a  teaspoonful  of  cold  water, 
mix  in  a  generous  pinch  of  corn  starch  stir  smooth  and  beat  slowly 
into  the  curdled  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Roger  Winter. 

WHEN  FRYING— Add  a  little  salt  to  the  fat,  when  frying 
croquets  or  doughnuts  and  it  will  not  spatter  on  the  stove. 

GASOLINE — The  ring  sometimes  left  in  clothes,  when  cleaned 
with  gasoline,  may  be  removed  by  steaming  over  a  teakettle. 

MEALY  POTATOES— Baked  potatoes  will  cook  mealy  if  the 
ends  are  nipped  off  before  putting  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  John  Carlson. 

SCORCHING— A  pan  of  salt  in  the  oven,  under  the  baking, 
will  prevent  scorching. 

GELATINE — When  unmolding  a  gelatine  dessert,  first  pour 
cold  water  over  the  dish  on  which  you  wish  to  unmold  it,  shaking 
off  as  much  as  possible.  If  the  mold  fails  to  fall  into  the  proper 
place,  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  slide  it  into  position. 

Mrs.  W.  Frank  Daub. 

IRONING  BOARDS— may  be  protected  from  dust  by  taking 
long  paper  bags  of  desired  width,  cutting  bottom  from  bags,  and 
pasting  together  to  required  length.  Slip  over  board  when  not  in 
use. 

Lucy  Parker. 

COLORING — To  color  successfully  and  daintily  chiffon,  veiling 
artificial  flowers,  feathers,  wings,  straw  hat  braid,  etc.,  take  a  small 
amount  of  tube  oil  paint,  which  artists  use,  thin  with  gasoline,  ac- 
cording to  whether  you  wish  to  darken  the  shade  with  more  paint, 
or  lighten  with  more  gasoline.  If  the  worker  is  careful,  the  color 
will  be  even  and  permanent.  Select  a  bright,  windy  day  for  the 
work ;  do  the  dipping  by  an  open  door,  and  see  that  each  part  dries 


234  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB   COOK   BOOK 


at  the  same  time.  Be  careful  to  leave  no  undissolved  particles  of 
paint  in  the  gasoline ;  this  is  easy  and  satisfactory,  giving  pastel 
shades  that  can  be  acquired  in  few  other  w^ays. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Stevenson. 

MERINGUE — A  pinch  of  baking  powder  added  to  meringue 
will  keep  same  from  falling. 

A  way  to  test  meringue :  when  brown  touch  lightly  with  fin- 
gers and  if  no  imprint  is  left  same  is  done. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Manry. 

REFRIGERATOR  DRIPPINGS— are  splendid  for  watering 
box  plants,  being  rich  in  ammonia.  Let  stand  in  sun  and  warm  up 
before  using. 

Mrs.  Frank  L.  Stanton. 


MEMORANDUM  PAGE  FOR  YOUR  OWN  RECIPES. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 


HOME  GARDENS. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Hastings,  Chairman. 

Landscape  gardening  has  been  in  practice  since  3000  B.  C.  as 
shown  in  records  on  an  Egyptian  tomb.  The  best  of  the  earlier 
gardens  were  those  of  the  Romans,  which  combined  the  ideas  of  the 
Egyptians,  Persians  and  Greeks. 

In  England  the  idea  of  gardening  has  been  developed  to  a  large 
degree.  The  Elizabethen  gardens  became  more  decorative  and  had 
more  relation  to  the  architecture  of  the  house. 

One  of  Queen  Elizabeth's  chief  policies  was  frugality  and  her 
reign  was  marked  by  increased  resources.  At  that  time  the  vege- 
table gardens  were  separated  from  the  formal  gardens  and  were 
screened  from  the  more  public  views  of  the  place. 

Landscape  architects  are  especially  trained  men  for  laying 
out  of  grounds  and  when  possible  should  be  consulted,  but,  where 
the  places  are  not  large  enough  to  warrant  this,  much  pleasure  in 
planning  and  carrying  out  one's  ideas  is  found. 

It  is  necessary  to  have  a  complete  plan,  regardless  of  whether 
the  work  is  all  done  at  once  or  year  by  year.  One  owner  planted, 
the  first  year,  his  trees,  his  foundation  planting  in  front,  and 
shrubbery  to  screen  objectionable  features ;  the  second  year,  all  cor- 
ner plantings ;  the  third  season,  foundation  planting  completed  and 
evergreens  added;  the  fourth  season,  herbaceous  perennials  and 
architectural  features  completed  the  plans.  In  informal  planting, 
the  general  mass  of  the  borders  follows  the  lot  lines,  paralleling 
them  on  the  outside  edge,  with  curved  lines  of  planting  on  the  inside 
edge.  Where  accents  are  needed  to  emphasize  division  of  lot  into 
various  areas,  the  border  line  swells  in  width,  and  a  corresponding 
height  in  plants  is  called  for.  The  planting  should  follow  the  gen- 
eral outline  of  the  house,  so  it  would  seem  that  the  out-door  living 
rooms  are  a  part  of  the  house  itself,  introducing  variation  in  form, 


HOME   GARDENS  237 


height  and  color.    The  front  lawn  area  should  be  kept  open  up  to  the 
house. 

Foundation  planting  around  the  house  must  harmonize  in  coloi 
with  house  and  grounds,  accenting  corners,  openings  and  views 
with  shrubs  of  varying  height.  Vines  are  used  to  relieve  expanse 
of  house  walls,  furnish  privacy  for  porches,  arbors  and  pergolas. 
They  are  helpful  in  covering  banks  and  unsightly  effects.  Ever- 
greens are  especially  rich  for  planting  about  the  house — mixed  with 
deciduous  plants  whose  flowers,  twigs  or  fruits  make  a  pleasing 
contrast  with  lower  values  of  the  evergreens — and  produces  a 
cheerful  effect  the  year  around. 

Roses  of  garden  type,  including  Tea  Roses,  Hybrid  Teas  and 
Hybrid  Perpetuals,  should  be  restricted  to  gardens.  The  Rugosa 
Rose  is  available  for  border  planting. 

Flowers  may  be  planted  in  borders  to  serve  as*the  fore  ground 
or  "facers"  to  shrubs  along  paths  or  massed  in  beds  of  formal  de- 
sign, if  they  are  kept  well  back  from  the  centers  of  open  spaces. 
Bulbous  plants,  such  as  Narcissus  or  Daffodils,  are  effectively 
planted  in  colonies  similar  to  those  formed  by  wild  flowers  planted 
by  nature.  They  can  be  left  to  themselves  as  the  tops  soon  disappear 
and  the  lawn  is  not  injured. 

Annuals  are  best  confined  to  garden  beds  or  borders  and  are 
valuable  for  cut  flowers  and  continuous  bloom. 

The  best  guarantee  for  success  is :  choosing  plants  of  known 
hardiness :  nursery  grown  plants  with  well  developed  masses  of  fi- 
brous roots  from  a  dependable  nurseryman  ;  planting  with  an  under- 
standing of  the  requirements  of  the  plants  and  shrubs  for  healthy 
growth,  such  as  their  needs  of  watering,  cultivation,  mulching  or 
fertilizing.  Flower  seed  planting  should  follow  packet  or  seed  cat- 
alog directions. 

WHAT  AND  WHEN  TO  PLANT  FOR  TABLE  USE. 

While  many  high-sounding  adjectives  are  used  in  a  few  seed 
catalogs,  responsible  seedsmen  illustrate  by  actual  photographic  re- 
productions. Descriptions  and  cultural  directions  are  dependable 
and  it  is  well  for  every  person  who  plants  a  garden,  flower  bed  or 
window  box  to  have  and  follow  closely  the  catalog  of  thoroughly  re- 
liable seedsmen. 

General  planting  tables  are  fine  and  being  quickly  decipher- 
able are  quite  handy  to  keep  as  a  reference  and  reminder.  For  such 
a  purpose  in  this  short  space  is  given  a  list  of  vegetables  that  do  wel/ 
and  are  in  common  use  in  the  latitude  of  Atlanta.  For  cultural  di- 
rections, follow  the  simple  directions  printed  on  the  packets  or  pack- 
ages of  seeds  you  buy  or  that  you  will  find  in  the  seed  catalogue. 
The  making  of  garden  and  flower  beds  is  a  simple  matter  and  will 
repay  us  greatly  for  all  the  time  we  may  spend  on  their  care.  Let 
us  grow  our  own  vegetables  and  flowers.  The  fresh  home  grown 
vegetables  are  much  more  delicious  than  any  we  can  buy  at  the 
stores  and  the  flowers  make  a  real  home  of  even  the  simplest  cottage. 


< 

O 
> 

Q 

< 

O 

O 

I— H 

< 
Plh 

O 

< 


^  —1 
«    0 

c 

u 
>1 

1 

1 

f 

C 

1 

^ 

1 

0 

4 

■-0 

5 

0 

c 

o 

o 

O 

1  I 

e 
« 

'o 

V 

E 

a. 
< 
o 

a 
< 

G 
< 

Si 

0 
u 

si 

o 

o 

G 
< 

C 

G 
c 

O 

o 

if 

G 
<^ 

C 

o 

G 

G 

o 

G 

<; 
c 

bi 

< 

fci 
u 

G 
(U 

o 

<5 

Ml   b 
S     3 

<  < 

G    C 

<  < 

0     0 

1—1 
o 

G 

o 
a 

a 

I-'  ^» 
S    ° 

i;    a 
-  < 

on 
'J 

s « 

f  •- 

a 

u 

d 

iT' 

c 

- 

n 

- 

i 

c 

c 

- 

B 

a 

- 

- 

- 

^C 

'^ 

" 

-S. 

E  .S 

Id 

«  I- 
c.S 
JS 

" 

■o 

^ 

■^. 

cc 

J 

cc 

2 

y: 

cc 

.r 

■^. 

d 

\D 

'O 

- 

^ 

cc 

cc 

- 

—    <-^    (^ 

lA 

gj    O 
U   U 

C 

n  e 

5| 

Si 

.r 

■^ 

S 

^ 

s 

- 

■X, 

ZC 

cc 

" 

- 

:: 

:^, 

Ol 

^ 

T 

2 

OC 

S 

+- 

x! 

^ 

G 

S 

^, 

= 

b 

a, 

G 

G 

S 

G 

b 

'^ 

G 

§ 

s 

G 

j= 

G 

G 

b   - 

G    G 

« 

bo 
u 
> 

u 

E 
<s 

H 

0 

p. 
< 

o 

0 

d 
< 

a 

n 

"o 

u 

O 
G 

ffi 

be 

G 

C 

E 

> 

o 

s 

^ 

G 

Oh 

nj 
W 

bi! 

c^ 

o 

C 

o 

c 
c 

I 

V 

c 

C 

o 

1 

- 

S 

- 

\C 

cc 

o 

1 

5 
cc 

c 

g 

o 

5 

C 

X 

1 

o 

- 

1 

X 

- 

X 

i 

c 

CO 

C 

5 

o 

0 

CO 

c 
£ 

5 

<u 

V. 

0 

>> 

o 

u 
1 

c 
1— > 

be 
< 

CA 

s 

c 
1— > 

0 

& 
< 

V 

C 

c 

c 

o 

ft 

< 

V 

ft 
< 

ft 

c 

o 
'S. 

< 

o 

< 

ft 
< 
c 

< 

■ft 
< 

a 
< 

0 

s 

bi 

< 

c 
>. 

0 
ft 

- 

< 

u 

ft 
< 

u 

s 

ft 
< 

s 

ft 
U 

ir. 

CA 

ft 
< 

ii 

< 

13 

ft 
< 

< 

< 

s 

ft 

c 
o 
ft 

< 

ro 

:>; 

:>; 

d 

- 

^ 

::^ 

- 

^ 

:>; 

c 

:s 

^ 

d 

'•^ 

<N 

:>; 

d 

CM 

■^ 

CM 

^ 

:>: 

c 
ft 

\"; 

:>; 

d 

- 

- 

N" 

r-. 

~S 

d 

c 

^ 

•^ 

d 

- 

C 

VO 

- 

^ 

\o 

- 

- 

- 

- 

•^ 

- 

"I- 

«-o 

CI 

cj 

2 

:: 

^ 

f, 

- 

^ 

- 

- 

■^ 

rr 

^ 

s 

•* 

- 

4-1 

^ 

_« 

00 

•^ 

o 

0 
u 

" 

CM 

c 

C 

S 

:: 

2 

m 

^c 

CO 

" 

S 

■:>; 

^ 

^ 

d 
oc 

?.) 

vo 

- 

^ 

^ 

OJ 

2 

d 

d 

S 

S 

cc 

^ 

^o 

a 

S 

b 

b 

c. 

o 

X 

s 

ft 

-li 

N 

^ 

- 

O 

1 

" 

- 

" 

= 

ft 

i-^ 

s 

b 

O 

b 

fi 

o 

ft 

o 

b 

b 

ft 

Tf 

b 

o 

s 
"a 

c 
n 

c 

"a 

> 

■a 

o 

U 

X 

u 

X 

5 

"u 

o 

0 

PS 

c 

o 

o 

c 

^ 

u 

S 

u 

^c 

X 

c3 

c 

X 

- 

V 

5 

o 

0 

ft 
ft 

1) 

Ml 

CO 

~a 

O 

u 
'a 

OJ 

X 

o 

X 

0 

ft 

OJ 

be 

o 

'ft 

T3 
C 

N 

a 
1 

C 
P 

5 

^ft 

c 

1 
E 

1. 

03    0) 

5K-C 

o 

?-l«*H 

^      O 

>i 

01     ?H 

c  «^ 

,«  § 

tH+^ 

°73 

!>,  =V 

o  i; 

X 

r  y 

rt 

^^■ 

«    01 

p 

01 

03 

W 

£ 

!^5 

hJ 

m 

01 

_C 

.,-H 

bi 

^-^ 

^ 

<< 

-2 

01 

73 

H 

0) 

^ 

OJ 

o> 

Q 
Q 

Oi 

B 

OJ 

> 

o 

VI 

.2 

o 
o 

.2 

« 

o 
p 

;^ 

>i 

W 

_  "^ 

>) 

^ 

K 

13 

01 

13 

o^ 

13 

> 

H 

73 

> 

T3 

< 
X 

3 

P. 

73 

03 

03 

H 

m 

C/3 

O 

in 

o 

O 

Q 

0) 

O 

KH 

X 

;-i 

« 

-M 

0) 

o 

«4-l 
O 

'Ph 

O 

c 

Ol 

o 

o 

72 

0) 

01 
Ol 

o 

+-> 

-(iJ 

T3 

^ , 

c^ 

0> 

T3 

ctf 

T3 

-o 

s 

0* 

S 

w 

b£: 

+J 

C 

Cfi 

0> 

c3 

? 

01 

C 

s 

^ 

c. 

Ol 

CS 

_g  J3 

^ 

m 

bCi 

^ 

rt 

C 

3 

-l-i  1 

"o 
^ 

en  "73 

o 

c 

_0I 

O  1 

x:  1 

i3 

'r^ 

a 

-Q 

3 

6 

0) 

Vi  • 

X 

«• 

^ 

H  ^ 

CHAPTER  XX. 


RECIPES  FOR  SPECIAL  OCCASIONS. 

The  following  recipes  are  of  such  an  unusual  nature  it 
seems  best  not  to  classify  them  in  any  particular  chapter.  Other 
casserole  dishes  have  been  placed  in  chapters,  where  they  seemed  to 
belong,  being  classified  according  to  their  chief  ingredient.  Many 
of  the  following  will  be  found  useful  for  children's  parties. 

The  Editors. 


ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI. 

(Original  Recipe.) 
Each  item  of  the  following  should  be  multiplied  by  the  num- 
ber of  persons  partaking. 
1/2  lb-  medium-caliber  Spaghet-    V4.  of  a  "bloom"  of  garlic. 

ti.  1/^  tin     tomato-paste      (Italian 

1/4  lb.  butter.  brand). 

1  medium-sized  onion.  14  Parmisan  or  Roman  cheese. 

Mince  onions  and  fry  in  butter  till  brown.  Then  add  in  follow- 
ing rotation  at  2  minutes  intervals:  (1)  tomato  paste  properly  di- 
luted in  little  water,  (2)  garlic  finely  minced,  (3)  1  large  spoon 
grated  cheese  per  person,  saving  balance  for  serving  time.  During 
above  proceeding,  start  cooking  spaghetti  in  boiling  water.  Time 
for  cooking  runs  usually  as  long  as  time  for  frying  of  sauce.  Strain 
spaghetti  very  carefully  and  mix  it  with  sauce.  Serve  hot.  Sprin- 
kle individual  helpings  with  remaining  cheese. 

Enrico  Leide, 
(Manager  Howard  Theatre.) 

JACK  IN  THE  BOX. 

1  cup  butter.  1  cup  water. 

1/2  pt.  whipped  cream.  2  t-spoons   Royal  baking  pow- 

2  cups  sugar.  der. 

3  cups  flour.  3  eggs. 
1/2  t-spoon  vanilla. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together ;  add  eggs  beaten ;  then  add 
flour  into  which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Mix  well  and  bake 
in  muffin  pans  and  set  aside  after  baking.  The  following  day  cut 
off  top  of  cake,  scoop  out  the  inside  and  fill  with  whipped  cream 
sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  Replace  the  top  and  ice  with 
heavy  chocolate  or  caramel  icing. 

Mrs.  George  A.  Dewald. 


242  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK  BOOK 


MEXICAN  SPAGHETTI. 
3  pork  chops.  1  Bell  pepper. 

1  can  tomatoes.  1  onion. 

1/4  lb.  cheese.  i/i  t-spoon  salt. 

14  package  Spaghetti. 

Boil  spaghetti  in  salty  water  until  tender,  then  drain.  Cut 
meat  in  small  pieces  and  cook  with  tomatoes,  onions  and  bell  pep- 
per. Place  this  in  a  baking  dish,  alternating  with  layers  of  spa- 
ghetti, the  vegetable  mixture  and  grated  cheese.  Season  with  pep- 
per and  salt.    Bake  20  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  L.  D.  Williams. 


NEW  ENGLAND  BOILED  DINNER. 

5  lbs.  corned  beef.  1  medium  sized  cabbage. 

6  carrots.  6  medium  sized  potatoes. 
2  rutabaga  turnips.  6  medium  sized  beets. 

Cook  beef  in  boiling  water  slowly  S-V^  hrs.  or  until  tender.  Re- 
move meat,  put  cabbage,  turnips,  and  carrots  into  liquor,  and  boil 
1/4  hr.  Add  potatoes  and  cook  1/2  hr.  longer.  Cook  beets  separately. 
Serve  beef  on  large  platter  surrounded  by  vegetables.  Use  pickled 
beets  if  preferred. 

Mrs.  Katherine  Cummings. 
I  "  Tewksbury,  Mass. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH. 

1/2  dozen  onions.  1  red  pepper. 

1  pound  round  steak.  1  green  pepper, 

2  cups  raw  potatoes  (diced).  3  tomatoes. 
2  cups  raw  carrots  (diced).  1  bay  leaf. 
2  tbls.  lard.                                       2  cloves. 

1  qt.  water.  6  allspice. 

Cut  up  onions  and  brown  in  frying  pan  with  two  tbls.  lard. 
Put  in  a  little  flour  to  thicken.  Add  the  round  steak  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Stir  so  meat  sears.  Add  the  diced  potatoes  and  carrots, 
also  the  tomatoes,  and  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  six  allspice  and  the 
peppers  chopped  fine.  Add  one  quart  water  and  cook  until  all  are 
tender. 

Mrs.  Harry  L.  Wills. 

DOLLY  CAKES  IN  CAPS. 
Bake  any  reliable  cake  mixture  in  round  patty  or  muffin  pans, 
and  cover  the  tops  with  white  icing.  With  a  fine,  new,  paint  brush 
dipped  in  melted  chocolate,  indicate  eyes,  nose  and  mouth.  Much 
variety  can  be  secured  by  slanting  the  eyes,  turning  the  corners  of 
the  mouths  up  or  down,  etc.  Cut  circles  of  white  tissue  paper 
larger  than  the  cakes,  pink  the  edges,  and  run  a  white  ribbon  or 
thread  around  each,  one  inch  from  the  edge.  Set  the  cakes  each  in  a 
cap,  and  tie  the  ribbon.  Grownup  children  will  enjoy  these  as  much 
as  the  little  ones. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 


RECIPES  FOR  SPECIAL  OCCASIONS  243 


SAVORY  PUDDING. 

1  lb.  boiled  onions.  1/2  tbls.  of  sage. 

1/2  lb.  bread  crumbs.  1  egg  and  a  very  little  milk. 

Sozs.  shredded  suet.  Salt  and  pepper  to  season. 

Chop  the  onions,  heat  the  breadcrumbs  and  onions  together, 
add  all  the  other  ingredients  and  lastly  mix  with  egg  and  milk.  Add 
hot  drippings  to  mixture,  spread  even  over  the  pan  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  for  about  40  minutes.  Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then 
cut  in  squares  and  serve  with  gravy. 

Mrs.  Bertram  Ibbetson. 

BAKED  MACARONI,  WITH  CHEESE. 
34  cups    macaroni,    broken    in    2  tbls.  butter. 

pieces.  V2  cup  grated  cheese. 

2  qts.  boiling  water.  I-V2  cups  scalded  milk. 

1  tbls.  salt.  14  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

2  tbls  flour. 

Cook  macaroni  in  the  boiling  salted  water  for  twenty  min- 
utes ;  drain  and  blanch  in  cold  water.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  the 
butter,  flour  and  milk.  Add  seasoning  to  the  sauce.  Arrange  a 
layer  of  cooked  macaroni  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish; 
sprinkle  with  the  grated  cheese,  repeat  until  all  the  macaroni  and 
cheese  are  used ;  pour  over  the  white  sauce,  cover  the  top  with  but- 
tered crumbs  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  or  long 
enough  to  give  the  top  a  nice  brown. 

Mrs.  Ernest  Covington. 

APPLE  BASKETS. 
6  apples.  1  lemon-juice  and  rind. 

3/4  lb.  light  brown  sugar.  1  oz.  ginger  root. 

Cut  two  pieces  from  each  apple,  leaving  what  remains,  in  the 
shape  of  a  basket  with  a  handle,  after  hollowing  it  out.  Chop  the 
apple  pulp,  amounting  to  about  two  cups,  add  sugar,  lemon  juice 
and  rind,  the  ginger,  pinch  of  salt  and  enough  water  to  cover.  Cook 
slowly  four  hours,  adding  water  from  time  to  time.  Serve  in  bas- 
kets.   These  are  particularly  good  with  roast  pork. 

Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing. 

.       MACARONI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

•%.  cup  macaroni.  3  tbls.  flour. 

2  qts.  boiling  water.  I-I/2  cups  tomato  juice. 

1  tbls.  salt.  1  slice  onion. 

2  butter.  2  slices  green  pepper. 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  the  boiling  salted  water  for  twenty  min- 
utes, drain  and  blanch.  Brown  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  sea- 
soning. Cook  the  tomato  juice  with  slice  of  onion  and  green  pep- 
per ;  strain  into  cooked  butter  and  flour  slowly.  Cook  until  smooth 
and  thick,  and  pour  over  the  macaroni. 

Mrs.  Lester  White. 


244  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS. 
1  dozen  peppers.  1  small  chicken. 

1  stalk  celery.  3  large  tomatoes. 

3  ears  tender  corn.  1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

1  tbls.  butter.  i/2  cup  cream  sauce. 

1/2  cup  crackers.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Select  nice  peppers  average  size,  cut  off  ends  and  remove  in- 
side surplus  and  seed.  Stand  peppers  in  cold  water  while  filling  is 
prepared.  Have  ready  small  size  young  frier  boiled  tender.  Add 
chopped  celery  to  chicken  and  allow  all  to  cool  in  liquid  in  which 
chicken  was  boiled.  Remove  meat  from  chicken  and  put  through 
meat  chopper.  Cut  tomatoes  and  corn  fine,  add  with  bread  crumbs 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well  together  the  above  ingredients 
with  the  cream  sauce  and  stuff  each  pepper.  Sprinkle  thickly  with 
crushed  cracker  crumbs.  Add  a  little  water  to  baking  dish  to  pre- 
vent sticking.    Bake  thirty  minutes.  . 

Mrs.  Moreland  Zellers, 

Grantville,  Ga. 

ESCALLOPED  HAM  AND  EGGS,  EN  CASSEROLE. 

2  cups  cold  boiled  ham.  2  tbls.  milk. 

4  hard  boiled  eggs.  1  cup  cream  sauce. 
2  cups  bread  crumbs. 

Chop  ham  fine;  slice  eggs;  grease  dish,  covering  the  bottom 
with  about  1/3  of  bread  crumbs;  then  add  layers  of  eggs,  ham, 
cream  sauce  and  crumbs.  Cover  top  with  crumbs  moistened  with 
butter,  and  pour  milk  in  around  top.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  20 
minutes.    Make  cream  sauce  of 

1  tbls.  butter  or  bacon  grease.       1  tbls.  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  1  tbls.  onion  juice. 

Mrs.  Charles  Myers. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

OUR  ADVERTISING  FAMILY. 

By  Mrs.  Newton  C.  Wing 
Chairman  Home  Economics  Dept. 

After  a  careful  investigation  of  the  following  firms,  the  Home 
Economics  Department  of  the  Atlanta  Woman's  Club  takes  great 
pleasure  in  inviting  them  to  be  advertisers  in  the  Cookbook.  One 
firm  only  of  its  kind  has  been  selected  with  the  purpose  in  mind 
always,  of  having  the  advertiser  one  in  whom  our  readers  could 
have  entire  confidence,  and  in  this  way  avoid  time  spent  in  making 
investigations  themselves.  We  regard  this  as  one  of  the  most 
important  features  of  this  work,  and  hope  sincerely  that  our  read- 
ers will  show  their  appreciation  of  our  efforts  by  liberally  patroniz- 
ing these  firms.  Be  sure  to  read  their  advertisements  which  fol- 
low this  Advertising  Chapter, 


THE  CALORIC  FURNACE  CO.  belongs  most  properly  in  the 

Cookbook,  even  if  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  food,  for  common  sense 
tells  us  that  we  must  first  be  warm  and  comfortable,  else  how  can 
we  enjoy  eating?  The  Home  Economics  Department  welcomes  it 
gladly  therefore  both  because  it  makes  home  cozier,  and  because 
it  is  so  economical. 

THE  FRIGIDAIRE— Just  think,  a  refrigerator  never  damp! 
Never  to  have  to  watch  out  for  the  Ice-man's  coming,  to  see  that 
tickets  or  change  are  ready,  or  that  we  have  been  given  correct 
weight — and  then  finally,  perhaps  to  clean  up  after  muddy  feet. 
All  these  things  are  unnecessary  with  the  Frigidaire.  For  several 
months  we  studied  this  delightful  electrical  contrivance  at  close 
range,  the  Frigidaire  Company  being  kind  enough  to  install  it  in 
our  model  kitchen  at  the  Club  House  for  that  purpose,  and  we  rec- 
ommend it  most  heartily. 

ROYAL  BAKING  POWDER— The  Cookbook  editors  feel  that 
a  commendation  of  Royal  needs  must  be  superfluous,  so  long  has 
it  been  the  standard  of  excellence.  Confirming  this  belief,  the  only 
baking  powder  mentioned  in  our  recipe^  is  the  Royal.  A  new 
feature  introduced  by  this  firm  is  their  selection  of  a  consulting 
household  specialist,  who  will  be  glad  to  answer  all  questions  con- 
cerning household  problems  addressed  to  the  Educational  Depart- 
ment, Royal  Baking  Powder  Company. 


246  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


OPTICIANS,  A.  K.  HAWKES  &  CO.  We  would  really  not 
need  to  say  anything  more  about  A.  K.  Hawkes  &  Co.  than  to  re- 
mind our  readers  that  this  sterling  Atlanta  firm  has  been  in  busi- 
ness over  fifty  years  in  our  city.  That  fact  certainly  speaks  for 
itself,  but  we  can't  resist  the  opportunity  to  tell  you  also  that  it's 
a  reliable  place  to  get  one's  eyes  tested  and  fitted ;  that  they  have 
the  latest  thing  in  cameras  and  photographic  methods,  and  that  we 
fell  in  love  with  an  oven  thermometer  we  saw  there,  which  every 
one  who  reads  our  chapters  on  baking  will  want  to  purchase. 

JESSUP  &  ANTRIM— ICE  CREAM  MANUFACTURERS.— 
This  firm  has  been  a  member  of  our  Woman's  Club  "family"  for 
some  time,  having  supplied  delicious  ice-cream  for  practically  all 
the  big  aflfairs  held  at  the  club  house  and  also  at  the  Children's 
Play  Room,  established  by  our  Home  Economic  Department  down- 
town, to  care  for  children  while  the  mothers  shop.  We  have  found 
this  firm  to  be  thoroughly  dependable  in  the  things  that  count — 
their  cream  is  uniformly  good,  their  deliveries  are  always  on  time, 
and  they  are  kindness  itself  in  filling  rush  or  emergency  orders. 

THE  WHITE  PROVISION  COMPANY— The  story  which  our 
beloved  Henry  W.  Grady  told  of  the  poor  "one  gallus"  fellow  from 
Georgia  who,  when  it  came  time  to  die,  found  that  the  South  fur- 
nished him  nothing  but  the  hole  in  the  ground  in  which  to  be 
buried — that  everything  else  for  the  funeral  had  to  be  imported 
from  the  North  seems  a  far  cry  from  the  prosperous  times  of  pres- 
ent Southland.  The  time  is  here,  when  Georgia  cannot  only  furnish 
us  the  necessary  elements  of  a  funeral,  but  what  is  more  important 
— can  provide  the  necessities  of  life. 

A  pioneer  who  has  helped  to  bring  about  this  happy  change  is 
Mr.  W.  H.  White,  Jr.,  President  of  the  White  Provision  Company. 
By  stimulating  the  livestock  industry  in  Georgia,  by  building  a  mod- 
ern packing  house  in  Atlanta,  establishing  the  home  of  the  famous 
CORNFIELD  BRAND  HAMS  AND  BACON,  he  has  earned  the 
admiration  and  gratitude,  not  only  of  all  true  Georgians,  but  of 
good  Americans  everywhere,  for  he  is  helping  to  develop  his  own 
part  of  the  country,  without  harming  any  other  part  which  surely 
is  the  duty  of  all  citizens. 

McCRARY  — PHOTOGRAPHER  — This  Department  takes 
great  pleasure  in  recommending  the  McCrary  Studios,  for  artistic 
portraits,  and  for  sensible  prices.  Even  during  the  period  of  the 
late  war,  these  prices  did  not  take  upward  trend,  with  which  we 
became  so  unpleasantly  familiar,  in  so  many  cases  of  necessities 
and  luxuries.  We  find  in  the  McCrary  Studios  pleasant  atmosphere, 
of  genial  welcome  and  artistic  accomplishment. 


OUR  ADVERTISING  FAMILY  247 


THE  HOWARD  THEATRE— Built  with  the  artistry  inspired 
by  years  of  foreign  travel  on  the  part  of  Mr.  Troup  Howard,  this 
wonder-place  satisfies  the  artistic  longing  of  the  most  cultured,  and 
raises  the  standard  of  others  who  have  grown  accustomed  perhaps 
to  consider  the  tawdry  finery  purchased  by  money  alone — the  cri- 
terion. Even  without  its  wonderful  moving  pictures,  it  would  be 
soul-satisfying  to  rest  in  the  luxurious  seats  breathing  in  the  har- 
mony of  color  and  music.  After  a  year  of  its  charm,  it  still  holds 
us  spell-bound,  and  thankful  that  such  things  can  be. 

WISE  DRUG  COMPANY.  After  leaving  the  Howard,  we 
find  it  the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world  to  turn  to  the  left  into 
the  beautiful  home  of  the  Wise  Drug  Co.  and  get  one  of  their  de- 
licious orange  drinks.  Aside  from  the  hospitality  dispensed  at 
the  soda-fountain,  we  are  assured  of  all  the  necessities  to  be  found 
in  a  good  drug  store.  When  added  to  this  is  a  satisfaction  pro- 
duced by  the  elegance  and  simplicity  which  marks  this  in  common 
with  the  Howard  Theatre,  we  find — it  easy  to  form  a  Wise  habit. 

THE  DAFFODIL  TEA  ROOM  AND  RESTAURANT— Con- 
tinuing down  Pryor  street,  about  a  block  from  the  Howard,  we 
find  one  of  the  coziest  places  to  eat.  Accomplishing  the  usually 
impossible  feat  of  providing  delicious  individual  cooking  on  a  large 
scale,  the  Daffodil  has  become  the  rendezvous  for  all  who  like  an 
atmosphere  of  home.  Here  every  day,  friends  meet  friends,  and 
one  has  the  feeling  of  hospitality  offered  in  a  delightful  personal 
manner  by  the  owner,  Mrs.  J.  E.  McRee,  and  her  assistants. 

JOY'S  FLOWER  SHOP— There  may  be  a  flower  shop  with  a 
prettier  name  but  we  doubt  it,  for  to  all  women  joy  and  flowers 
are  synonymous.  Our  acquaintance  with  this  florist,  where  the 
Woman's  Club  Hospital  Committee  purchase  its  many  floral  gifts, 
and  which  numbers  among  its  clientele  many  other  club  members, 
assures  this  firm  of  our  hearty  co-operation. 

M.  MILLER'S  PECANS— Pronounced  "pecawns",  "pecons"  or 
"pecans"  according  to  the  section  in  which  you  live,  does  not  af- 
fect the  thinness  of  the  shell  the  delicate  flavor,  nor  the  food  value 
of  the  delicious  pecans  grown  by  J.  R.  and  J.  B.  Miller,  Pecan  Nur- 
serymen of  Baconton,  Ga.  We  strongly  recommend  readers  of 
this  book  to  order  direct  from  Baconton — "the  Home  of  the  Pecan" 
and  then  use  them  in  our  cake  and  salad  recipes, 

ATLANTA  NATIONAL  BANK— The  modern  housewife  or 
professional  woman  whether  she  "budgets"  or  uses  a  salary  eco- 
nomically, finds  an  indispensable  adjunct  to  be  a  good  bank.  After 
several  years'  acquaintance  with  the  Atlanta  National,  we  recom- 
mend it  as  a  place  where  women  will  receive  special  consideration 
and  the  fact  that  it  is  especially  near  the  shopping  district,  adds 
to  the  convenience. 


248  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


BLOCK  BISCUIT  AND  CRACKER  COMPANY  is  an  Atlanta 
firm  acquiring-  national  prominence  owing  to  the  excellence  of  its 
wares.  This  firm  has  given  an  elaborate  demonstration  of  its 
products  at  a  general  meeting  of  our  Home  Economics  Department, 
and  we  endorse  it  most  heartily.  A  visitor  to  its  large  factories  is 
immediately  impressed  by  the  hygienic  conditions  under  wKich 
these  dainty  cakes  and  crackers  are  made. 

L.  W.  ROGERS  GROCERY  CO.  enjoys  the  friendship  and  ap- 
pi*eciation  of  Atlanta  housewives  to  the  fullest  extent.  This  firm 
made  it  possible,  during  the  difficult  war  period,  for  a  great  many 
of  us  to  furnish  our  tables  with  the  necessaries  of  life  at  a  price 
which  was  not  prohibitive.  Continuing  this  policy  during  peace 
times,  makes  the  "Rogers  Habit"  part  of  the  daily  life  of  ninety  per 
cent  of  Atlanta  housewives. 

KING  HARDWARE— Seems  to  have  everything  that  anbody 
could  wish  to  equip  a  home,  both  inside  and  outside.  Through 
this  store,  our  Department  purchased  many  hundred  dollars  worth 
of  equipment  to  furnish  our  model  club  kitchen,  and  we  are  prom- 
ised by  the  management  that  the  articles  mentioned  in  our  chaptf'r 
on  KITCHEN  EQUIPMENT  will  be  on  hand,  when  the  Cookbook 
readers  ask  for  them. 

SOUTHERN  DECORATING  CO.  A  trip  through  this  store 
makes  one  want  to  give  a  party  every  day  in  the  year,  for  such 
fascinating  things  as  are  to  be  seen !  Dainty  favors  for  tea  par- 
ties, funny  favors  for  children's  parties  (old  or  young),  and  ma- 
terials to  decorate  the  walls  of  immense  halls,  or  large  areas — for 
auto  parades,  or  at  any  time  when  the  spirit  moves  us  to  "dress 
up".  Entertainers  at  the  many  social  functions  of  the  Woman's 
Club  and  elsewhere,  will  find  a  delightful  variety  of  table  decora- 
tions. 

GEORGIA  RAILWAY  &  POWER  COMPANY.— Doesn't  that 
seem  like  a  big  subject  to  handle  in  one  little  paragraph?  Visions 
of  elemental  powers  harnessed  and  brought  into  subjection  are 
more  understandable,  however,  when  we  think  of  them  in  terms 
of  cooking,  baking,  and  in  the  evening,  the  cheery  reading  lamp. 
Furnished  in  such  abundance,  and  with  no  eflfort  on  our  part  we 
are  apt  to  take  such  luxuries  as  a  matter  of  course,  without  paus- 
ing to  think  of  the  arduous  labor  that  makes  them  possible.  Let 
us  give  thought,  now  and  then,  to  the  time  and  effort  which  have 
made  these  comforts  ours,  and  let  us  do  our  part,  in  conservation 
and  co-operation.  Our  readers  will  find  our  chapter  on  gas  economy 
very  useful  in  this  connection. 


OUR  ADVERTISING  FAMILY  249 


ATLANTA  MILLING  COMPANY.  —  Two  very  important 
events  will  happen  simultaneously  in  Atlanta — the  production  of 
this  Cookbook  and  the  introduction  of  a  brand  new  pastry  flour 
called  'Tride  of  Atlanta".  We  are  glad  to  recommend  its  use  in 
our  cake  recipes ;  and  as  Irwin  Cobb  says,  "Say  it  with  flours".  A 
long  time  has  been  spent  in  making  ready  for  the  market  this 
pastry  flour,  inspired  by  the  desire  to  call  only  the  very  best — 
"PRIDE  OF  ATLANTA".  As  all  good  cooks  know  a  fine  pastry 
flour  is  absolutely  necessary  for  the  making  of  fine  pastries,  so 
we  are  glad  to  be  among  the  first  to  sponsor  this  brand. 

JEWEL  FURNITURE  POLISH— The  invention  of  an  Atlanta 
woman,  this  polish  abundantly  proves  the  theory  that  home  prod- 
ucts may  be  as  good  or  sometimes  better  than  those  for  which  we 
go  far  afield.  This  polish  has  been  thoroughly  tested  by  the  Depart- 
ment, and  we  heartily  recommend  it. 

In  presenting  it  to  our  readers  of  the  fair  sex,  we  wish  to  add 
this  word  of  caution — "Be  sure  that  Hubby  has  one  for  his  own 
use,  or  you  will  find  that  he  has  borrowed  it  to  polish  his  car,  as 
it  is  equally  effective  for  that." 

BINDERS  GIFT  SHOP  AND  PICTURE  FRAMERY  is  just 
the  place  to  get  those  new  pictures  for  which  you  have  been  longing, 
as  a  splendid  assortment  may  be  found  there,  and  at  unusually  rea- 
sonable prices.  Almost  everybody  has  prints  on  hand  to  be  framed. 
Why  not  take  them  into  Binders  on  Pryor  Street,  just  below  the 
Daffodil,  and  get  them  framed,  and  while  there,  look  at  the  attrac- 
tive things  in  the  gift  shop. 

SOUTHERN  COTTON  OIL  CO.— We  feel  honored  to  welcome 
into  our  Home  Economics  family  the  advertisement  for  Wessons  Oil 
and  Snowdrift.  The  development  of  these  products  serves  to  ex- 
emplify the  wonderful  progress  in  Southern  industry,  which  has 
been  made  in  the  last  few  decades.  We  can  imagine  no  home  com- 
plete without  both  these  necessary  adjuncts,  and  recommend  them 
for  all  of  our  recipes  calling  for  shortening,  frying,  or  any  cooking. 

AMERICAN  BAKERIES  CORPORATION— Merita  Bread  is 
fast  making  friends  on  its  merits,  for  its  really  home  made  bread, 
and  priced  so  reasonably,  too.  Its  just  the  thing  to  put  in  the  school 
lunch,  and  when  everything's  ready,  what  could  be  more  convenient 
than  to  wrap  the  whole  lunch  in  the  sanitary  oiled  paper  which  has 
served  to  keep  the  bread  so  sweet  and  moist. 

JOHNSON-DALLIS  COMPANY.— The  very  surest  proof 
that  this  firm  is  very  popular  with  this  Department,  lies  in  the  fact 
that,  after  a  search  of  months  for  a  firm  that  suited  exactly  the 


250  ATLANTA  WOMAN'S   CLUB  COOK   BOOK 


very  high  requirements  for  the  production  of  this  Cookbook,  we  at 
last  selected  Johnson-Dallis  Co.,  and  we  are  sure  that;  you  will  agree 
with  us  after  reading  our  book  and  seeing  the  high  quality  of  work- 
manship. 

BUICK  MOTOR  CO.— For  the  person  who  wants  a  car  of 
which  its  owner  will  never  need  be  apologetic — which  will  take  its 
place  among  the  most  expensive  cars,  yet  be  within  reach  of  those 
in  only  comfortable  circumstances ;  which  is  luxurious  to  ride  in, 
yet  economical  in  the  amount  of  gasoline  needed ;  easy  for  a  woman 
to  drive,  yet  tough  enough  to  stand  long,  hard  trips — we  recommend 
the  Buick,  They  say  that  when  a  better  car  is  made,  they  will  make 
it  and  we  believe  them,  for  we  have  tested  them  ourselves,  covering 
a  period  of  ten  years, 

ELLA  SMITH  DOLL  CO.— In  selecting  our  Cookbook  adver- 
tisers, we  were  not  thinking  particularly  of  singling  out  women- 
Is  it  a  coincidence,  or  a  sign  of  the  times,  that  three  of  our  new 
"family"  are  inventors  and  originators  of  things  unique?  This 
ALABAMA  INDESTRUCTIBLE  DOLL  was  born  in  a  womans 
love  for  her  own  children.  Made  first  for  them,  the  demand  spread 
like  wildfire,  until  now  it  seems  as  if  the  whole  world  wants  this 
darling  doll,  that  can  withstand  the  punishment,  to  which,  unwit- 
tingly, its  little  mothers  and  daddies  submit  it. 


Children  Will  Wake  Up  Early 

You  know  how  they  hop  out  of  bed  before  the  house  is  warm  and  play 
around  while  dressing!     Colds  and  sickness  are  too  often  the  result. 

At  best,  grates  and  stoves  keep  only  part  of  the  house  fairly  warm. 
Then  there  is  the  ever  present  danger  of  your  children  being  burned  in 
your  absence — a  fate  that  overtakes  many  little  ones  every  winter. 

With  a  Caloric  circulating  warm,  pure  air  to  every  nook  and  corner, 
your  children  may  get  up  as  early  as  they  please  and  play  around  to  their 
hearts'  content.  Then  they  run  through  a  warm  hall  to  the  dining  room 
and  eat  their  breakfast  in  comfort. 

Over  ONE  HUNDRED  AND  TWENTY  FIVE  THOUSAND  families 
— three  hundred  of  them  in  Atlanta — testify  to  the  comfort,  convenience, 
economy,  healthfulness  and  genuine  all  round  goodness  of  the 


LOR  I 


Let  us  show  you  how  to  make  YOUR  home  comfortable  in  winter 

THE  CALORIC  FURNACE  COMPANY, 

E.  BUNNELL,  Manager. 

31 -A  South  Broad  Street  Phone  Main  2366. 


FRIGID  AIRE 

ECOIVOM^"  — SAFETY  IN   THE    HOME 

In  Your  Home  Frigidaire  stops  food  waste- 
protects  health-saves  doctor's  bills  and  lost 
time-prevents  danger. 

It  eliminates  the  iceman  with  all  his  attend- 
ing nuisances. 

It  makes  ice  for  your  table;  it  enables  you 
to  serve  your  family  and  your  guests  with 
a  quality  of  food  not  possible  with  an  ice  box. 

E.  H.  DANFORTH, 

DISTRIBUTOR, 
187  Peachtree  Street,  -:-  Atlanta,  Georgia 


5a£:^::^:^:r5> 


YOXJR 
SERVICE 


ESTABLISHED     8"'0 


Founded  in  1870,  our  store  has  for 

over  fifty  years  been  identified  with  the 
gro\vth  of  Atlanta,  and  we  feel  justified 
in  the  belief  that  it  has  wielded  a  strong 
influence  in  the  affairs  of  the  comnnunity. 

Our  effort  to  add  to  the  comfort 

and  convenience  of  our  patrons  by  giving 
them  the  best  optical  service,  careful  and 
pains-taking  effort,  long  experience  and 
modern  science  afford,  has  its  reward  in 
the  great  number  of  people  who  are  our 
patrons,  whose  parents  before  them,  wore 
"Hawhes  Glasses,"  and  whose  children, 
when  they  need  glasses,  come  to  our  store. 

And  just  as  Atlanta  has  improved 

year  by  year,  so,  too,  have  we  striven  to 
do  things  better,  to  employ  every  faculty 
for  increasing  our  usefulness  and  to  con- 
tinue to  merit  your  fullest  confidence. 

A.  K.   HAWKES  CO., 

Opticians  Optical  Instruments 

KODAKS  AND  SUPPLIES 

Atlanta,  Georgia 


^s=^2CMC^ 


Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 


The  prudent 

housewife  avoids 

substitutes,  which  may 

contain  alum^  and  uses 

ROYAL 

BAKING 
POWDER 

\ 
Absolutely  Pure  ^^t> 

Made  from  Cream  of  Tartar,  \ 
^         derived  from  grapes.        ^ 


m\ 


m 


a 

■  ■■■■^■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■l  ■  M.J  MaillklBI 

■  ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■  Bj. 

When  you  eat 

Ice  Cream, 

Eat  the  best- 
Made  by 

Jessup  &"  Antrim. 

Get  it  from 
Your  dealer. 

■■■■■■■■■mmm 

■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 

■  ■■■■■■■■■■■igiii 

White's  Cornfield  Brand 

PRODUCTS 


J  Keep  i  rs  a  Cool  Place  i  i 


^BRM^D*^ 


„    WHITE  PROVISION  Cof 

i  ATLANTA. GA.        jj' 


The  Sign  O'QuALiTYt 
tri  I  ffl  l¥  nffm  rrrri 


THE      SIGN      0'QUA.LITY. 


WHITE'S 

Grandmother  Brand 

Breakfast  Sausage 


Dear  Consumer: 

Your  order  for  the  above  products  indicate  that  you  want  the  best. 
You  pay  for  ihe  best  and  are  entitled  to  the  best.  Therefore,  ac- 
cept no  substitute.  Every  pound  of  these  products  is  guaranteed 
to  be  first  in  quality. 


W.  H.  WHITE,  JR.,  President 

WHITE  PROVISION  CO., 


ATLANTA, 


GEORGIA 


ATLANTA'S  LEADING  PHOTOGRAPHERS 


0n  the  bestperfrai^S 
yeutuill  find  ©ur  ng^me 


hone-MAtN5377>' 


J 


SERVICE  AND  REASONABLE  PRICES. 


Daffodi'   Tea  Room 

111   North  Pryor  Street 

The  splendid  reputation  we  enjoy  has  been  gained  by  our  policy 
of  presenting  to  the  public,  only  food  that  is  fit  to  eat. 

Our  private  dining-room  may  be  reserved 

for  all  kinds  of  special  occasions. 

Space  for  125  guests. 

We  have  made  a  special  study  of  all  delicatessen  dishes. 
Our  cold  cuts,  salads  and  dressings  are  prepared  to  suit  the 
most  fastidious  tastes.       They  are  tempting  and  delicious. 

During  the  winter    months     /\      The   Daffodil   Goodie   Shop 

we  are  featuring  afternoon     )(      has  for  sale  all  hinds  of  cake., 

sandwiches,  home  made  can- 
teas.     Delightful  affairs  with     ji       ^-^^^    ^-^^^    ^^^   everything 

good  music.                                    \)      that  is  luscious  to  the  taste. 

We  furnish  and.  deliver  refreshments  for  parties  and  picnics. 
Daffodil  Cakes  are  Delicious. 

Phone  Ivy  3757 

\ 


/ 


The  Atlanta  Woman's 

CLTJB 

—  and  the— 

HoTvaircl  Theatre. 


''Two  Atlanta  Institutions!' 


/ 


\ 


WE  are  gratified  to  know  that  the  zoomen  of 
Atlanta  J  especially  you  women  of  the  At- 
lanta Woman^s  Cluhy  find  pleasure  in  vis- 
iting the  Wise  Drug  Store  in  the  Howard.  Your 
increasing  patronage  we  appreciate  and  accept  as 
a  compliment  to  our  selection  of  those  requisites 
that  please  you.  Our  desire  to  serve  you  should 
be  expressed  by  the  prompt  and  courteous  service 
you  receive  ahvays.  Should  it  ever  be  at  faulty 
tell  us  so  that  we  may  correct  it. 


OUR  fountain  is  the  gathering  place  of  those 
who  desire  the  very  best  of  refreshment  be- 
fore or  after  the  theater.     Make  it  a  point  to 
meet  here. 

Among  the  best  of  candies  you  will  find  your 
favorite.  Sometimes  try  a  Whitmans  Sampler. 
Our  care  is  always  that  your  candy  be  fresh. 


Wise  Drug  Co., 

Howard  Theater. 
''In  the  heart  of  the  Amusemeni  Five  Points.'' 

ALSO  FOR  ^'OUR  CONVEMENCE-- 

Wise  Brothers'  Peachtree  Pharmacy 

Peachtree  at  Linden. 


OxufJltiHin^lou}erA 


No 


meal 

complete 
Without 
flowers 
from 


Hemlock 
4214 


MILLER 

MADE 

Package    Pecans 

FAMOUS 

Miller's  hand  selected  pecans  packed   in  fancy 

paper  cartons,  make  a  nice  gift  to  a  friend. 

Delivered  to  any  address  in  the  U.  S.  A. 

Write  for  prices 

Good  Pecan  Trees  at  $1.00  Each. 

ORDER  FROM 

J.  R.  &  J.  B.  MILLER,  Baconton,  Georgia. 

Package  Pecans  Made  Miller  Famous 


1 86S     Oldest  National  Bank  iii  the  Cotton  States      1 32 1 

The  Atlanta  National  Bank 

— and — 

The  W^omen  of  Atlanta 


THE  women  of  today  are  business  women. 
They  know  where  their  money  goes,  and 
why.  They  operate  their  homes  upon  the 
same  budget  system  that  apphes  to  the  success- 
ful business  house  downtown.  They  know 
how  much  money  they  can  spend  each  month, 
AND  THEY  MAKE  THEIR  ALLOW- 
ANCE COVER  THEIR  EXPENSE. 


Thousands  of  these  women  have  found  the 
Atlanta  National  a  wonderful  convenience. 
They  appreciate  the  conveniences  and  courtesy 
extended  to  them. 


To  the  women  who  are  not  Atlanta  National 
patrons,  we  extend  a  cordial  invitation  to  open 
accounts.  We  promise  them  the  same  service 
that  has  been  characteristic  of  the  Atlanta 
National  during  the  more  than  half  century  of 
its  business  life. 


The  Atlanta  National  Bank 

Active  Designated  Depository 

United  States  Government,  State  of  Georgia,  County  of  Fulton 

and  City  of  Atlanta. 


at  tlie  Capital  City  Club 


Where  the  best  Is 
demanded,  Block's  Sal- 
tines  are  always 
served. 


Block  s  Saltines 


There  Are  No\v 


1  35 

Rogers'  Stores 

LOCATED  AS  FOLLOWS: 


98  in  Atlanta 
6  in  Columbus 
3  in  Greenville,  S.C. 
2  in  Marietta 
1  in  LaGrange 
1  in  Cedartown 
1  in  Cartersville 
1  in  Griffin 
1  in  Americus 


11  in  Macon 
2  in  Rome 
2  in  Athens 
1  in  Gainesville 
1  in  Newnan 
1  in  Carrollton 
1  in  Monroe 
1  in  Fort  Valley 
1  in  Milledgeville 


Where  satisfaction  is  a  certainty. 


iiiniiiii 'Ill  iiii:i!Mniiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiuiiiiiiii iiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii iiiii mil mil iimmimiimiiiii: 

m " ' mi 


SEVEN 

STORES 

IN 

ATLANTA 


KINGS 


SEVEN 
STORES 


IN 
ATLANTA 


FOR  35  YEARS 


WE  HAVE  STOOD  FOR  THE 

Home  of  Quality 

There  should  not  be  a  room  in 
any  good  housekeeper's  home 
any  closer  to  her  heart's  desire 
than  her  kitchen,  and  for  these 
many  years  we  have  studied 
and  strived  to  make  of  our 
kitchen  furnishings  department 
the  best  and  most  completely 
locked  with  the  finest  quality 
of  goods  to  be  found  in  any 
southern  city. 


'Any  of  our  Stores  canouppiy  Yoy 


122D«ca1:^ 
34  Gordon 


\M. W 

iiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin  iiii.iiii  iiiiiiiniiiiiiniiiiiiiiii. 


DECORATIONS 

FOR  EVERY  OCCASION 
PUT  UP  ON  RENTAL  BASIS. 

Complete  assortments  of  everything  used 
for  decorating.  The  only  shop  in  the  city 
where  you  can  rent  flowers,  baskets,  "willow 
stands  and  other  decorations. 


FOR    YOUR    PARTY 

PLACE    CARDS.    DANCE    PROGRAMS. 

TALLY  CARDS,  FAVORS,  NUT 

CUPS,  NOVELTIES. 


JUST  FOR  FUN 

SERPENTINE,  CONFETTI,  NOISE  MAKERS, 

HORNS,  BALLOONS,  FIREWORKS, 

NOVELTIES. 


WE  RENT  MASQURADE  COSTUMES. 


We  can  take  care  of  any  or- 
der, no  matter  how  large, 
and  welcome  any  order,  no 
matter  how  small. 


Southern  Decorating  Co, 

77  S.  Broad— Main  4174. 


How  to  Cut  Down  Your  Gas  Bill 

T  HAS  BEEN  demonstrated  that  more  than 
11%  of  the  gas  fuel  supply  is  wasted.     A 
large  portion  of  this  waste  is  directly  due  to 
improper  methods  in  the  use  of  gas  equipment. 

Waste  can  be  reduced  to  the  vanishing  point, 
service  can  be  vastly  improved,  and  gas  bills  can  be 
diminished  by  a  proper  observance  of  a  few  rules 
governing  the  use  of  this  fuel. 


All  gas  range  burners  should 
burn  with  a  clear,  blue  flame. 
If  they  do  not,  the  consumer 
should  call  up  the  gas  company 
(Ivy  4400). 

Do  not  light  the  top  burners 
until   the   food   is   ready    to   put 


When  the  water  in  the  vessel 
has  come  to  the  boiling  point, 
reduce  the  flame  by  turning  the 
gas  valve  handle. 

Never  let  the  flame  lap  up 
around  the  vessel.  Turn  down 
the  valve. 

When  the  burner  is  not  in 
use,  turn  it  out.  It  is  very  easy 
to  light  again.  We  recommend 
the  use  of  some  handy  lighter, 
such  as  the  round  file  Safety 
Lighter,  which  is  always  ready 
for  use. 

Try  oven  cooking,  that  is, 
cooking  the  whole  meal  in  the 
oven  at  one  time.  It  is  the  eco- 
nomical way  of  cooking. 


If  Your  Gas  Bill  Seems 
High 

Note  on  your  bill  the 
dates  covered  by  the  meter 
readings;  take  the  average 
cost  per  day,  and  it  will  as- 
tonish you  how  nearly  the 
same  this  average  cost  will 
be  each  month.  The  differ- 
ence in  your  gas  bills  usu- 
ally covers  a  few  days'  dif- 
ference between  the  meter 
readings — or  different  con- 
ditions of  consumption — 
there  is  no  difference  in  the 
price  of  gas. 


In  case  of  any  trouble  with  your  gas,  telephone  Ivy 
4400  and  ask  for  the  Gas  Service  Department. 

GEORGIA  RAILWAY  AND  POWER  CO. 

P    S.  ARKWRK;HT,  President 


The  Pride  of  Atlanta 


BLEACHED 

jFiiiorirmi 


We  are  pleased  to  announce  to 
Southern  housewives  our  new  su- 
perlative patent  flour— "Pride  of 
Atlanta." 

"Pride  of  Atlanta"  is  the  last  word 
in  flours.  It  ranks  equal  or  supe- 
rior to  the  superlative  patent 
flours  of  America's  leading  mills. 

If  you  have  been  using  only  the 
BEST  patent  flours,  try  "Pride  of 
Atlanta""an  Atlanta  product  wor- 
thy of  its  home. 

Packed  in  restitched  sacks.  At 
your  grocers. 


The  Atlanta  Milling  Co., 


Atlanta,  Ga. 


Beautiful  Gifts 

MODERATE   IN   PRICE. 

Pretty  framed  mirrors, 

Fancy  bowls  and  vases, 

Candlesticks  and  book  ends, 
Boudoir  lamps, 

Framed  and  unframed  pictures, 
Cards  for  every  occasion. 

Picture  frames  made  to  order  for  less. 

Binder  Picture  Frame  Manufacturing  Co. 

1  13  N.  Pryor  St..  Next  to  Daffodil  Restaurant 


JEWEL    POLISH 

Cleans  as  it  Polishes 

JEWEL  FURNITURE,  FLOOR  and  AUTOMOBILE  POLISH  is 
different  from  ordinary  polishes.  It  restores  the  surface  to  its  orig- 
inal brilliancy,  brings  out  the  grain  of  the  wood,  leaves  a  perfectly 
dry  surface,  and  goes  twice  as  far  as  other  polishes. 

It  is  more  than  a  polish,  removing  ink,  grease,  grime  or  dirt  on 
which  other  polish  has  no  effect.  Absolutely  harmless,  and  without 
an  equal  for  cleaning  ivory  furniture  and  white  wood-work. 


Look  for  this  Trade-IUark. 


ANUFACTURED    BV 


Sold  by  Leading  Dealers 


The  Jewel  Furniture,  Floor  and  Automobile  Polish  Co., 

ATLANTA,  GA. 


The  secret  of  a  good  salad 

is  a  home  made  dressing 

that  exactly  suits 

your  own  taste. 

A  salad  is  the  appetizing  way  to 
serve  bits  of  food  which  might  other- 
wise be  thrown  away  or  wasted. 
With  Wesson  Oil  the  art  of  salad 
making  becomes  simple. 

Wesson  Oil  is  pure,  bland  and  de- 
licious. It  makes  the  most  delicate 
of  French  Dressings  and  a  mayon- 
naise of  unusual  stability. 

In  making  Wesson  Oil  Mayon- 
naise the  very  best  results  are  obtain- 
ed by  slightly  warming  the  bowl  in 
which  you  intend  to  mix  the  ingre- 
dients. 

Wesson  Oil 

for  Salads  and  Cooking 


When- 


You  just  must  have  the  very  best 
bread  the  market  affords — you 
want  something  especially  nice  for 
company--sandwiches,  etc.,  try 


B 


rea 


Then — 


A  happy  medium  in  bread,  and  yet 
a  very  delicious,  "wholesome,  satis- 
fying loaf,  will  be  found  in  our 

BUTTER  NUT  BREAD 


While- 


for  a  delicious,  inexpensive  dessert 
that  will  be  enjoyed  by  the  entire 
household,  we  recommend 

HOLSUM    CAKE 


AMERICAN 
BAKERIES 
COMPANY 


The     Automobile 

And  Home  Economics 


IN  THE  CONDUCT  of  the  modern  Ameri- 
can  home,    motor  transportation  for  the 
family  plays  an  increasingly  important  part. 

The  Atlanta  Woman's  Club,  thru  its  Home 
Economics  Committee,  has  given  its  endorse- 
ment to  the  product  of  the  Buich  Motor  Com- 
pany. 


On  account  of  its  dependability — ease  of  opera- 
tion— roomy  comfort,  and  low  cost  of  up-heep, 
the  Buick  is  the  ideal  car  for  the  family. 


Buick    Motor    Company, 

FLINT,  MICHIGAN. 

Division  of  General  Motors  Corporation,  Atlanta  Branch, 
241-243  Peachtree  St.,    Atlanta,  Ga. 


u 


The  Alabama  Indestructible  Doll" 


In  this  booh  of  unusually  good  things,  we  wish 
to  call  your  attention  to  the  very  best  doll 
that  is  made—an  indestructible  one.  Trul:p 
so.  Will  last  a  life  time  with  just  ordinary 
care.  The  head  is  a  patented  combination — 
not  wood,  metal,  nor  rubber.  The  doll  is 
entirely  hand-made,  hand  painted.  The 
body  made  of  good  heavy  fabric,  stuffed  with 
cotton  by  hand.  Doll  can  be  washed. 
We  have  instances  of  use  for  as  long  as 
twenty-two  years  and  thousands  of  them  in 
constant  use  five  and  ten  years.  Very  rea- 
sonable in  price,  and  all  that  we  claim  them 
to  be  in  every  respect.  Such  is  the  "Ala- 
bama Indestructible  Doll."  For  sale  by 
dealers  and  the 


Ella  Smith  Doll  Company, 

ROANOKE,  ::  ::  ALABAMA 


JOHNSON-DALLIS  CO 

PRINTERS 


Specialists  in  the  Production  of  High  Class 

BOOKLETS 

CA  TALOGUES 

COLLEGE  ANNUALS 

DIRECT  ADVERTISING 

AND  COMMERCIAL  WORK 

ATLANTA.  :-:  :-:         '   :-:  GEORGIA 


INDEX. 


Page 

advertisi>;g    chap- 
ter      245 

Almond    Sauce    140 

Apples- 
Baked    61 

Baskets     243 

Butter     96 

Conserve 100 

Crystalized    194 

Asparagus — 

Canning     221 

In    Ambush    162 

Timbals     158 

With    eggs    158 

Aspic — 

Cucumber     60-195 

Fruit    69 

Grape    Fruit    69 

Pineapple     (i9 

Bacon    with    liver    149 

BALANCED    MEALS    35 

Banana    Salad    60 

Beans    with    Mushrooms. .165 

Beef— 

A    La    Mode   155 

Casserole     149 

Cuts     (Photo) 150 

BEVERAGES-CHAP- 
TER 

Blackberry     85 

Chocolate    Milk     Float....  82 

Clear    Punch    85 

Club     Punch     83 

Egg     Nog     82 

Elder   Flower   83 

Fruit     Punch     82-84 

Ginger   Ale    Punch   84-85 

Grape    Juice     81-84-208 

Hot     Chocolate     83 

Iced   Tea   81-84-85 

Mint    Ale    84 

Norman    Punch    81 

Oriental    Punch    ...  83 

Raspberry    Shrub    82 

Strawberry     Water    84 

Summer    Draught    84 

Birds-Method    of    Cook- 
ing     146 

Biscuit — 

Beaten    202 

Bran    45 

Cheese    45 

Emergency  45 

Kentucky     Buttermilk  ..  40 

Southern    Beaten    45 

Sweet    Potato    45 

Boullets    (Meat)    156 

BREADS— CHAPTER 

Boston     Brown     43 

Corn    meal    28-48-204 

Corn    Pone    48 

Date     43 

Egg   Corn   meal    214 

Ginger    44- 122-200 

Griddles     204 

Johnny    Cake    43 

Milk    44 

Muffins     ^8-46-47-200 


Page 

Neverfail     40 

Norwegian     Sweet     41 

Nut     42-43 

Raisin     44 

Rolled    Oats    41 

Rolls     46-48-193 

Salt    Rising    41 

Southern     Brown     28 

Southern     Corn     28 

Spoon      42-193 

Tea    Muffins   28 

Waffles 14-16-49-200 

Boiling — Time     For 33 

Brains — • 

Calf     151 

Cutlets     196 

BREAKFASTS— 

New    England    38 

Mrs.     Thornton's     38 

Broiling — Time    For 33 

Brunswick    Stew   144 

Cabbage— Stuffed     166 

CAKE-CHAPTER 

Angel  17-103 

Angel    Food    104 

Birthday     113 

Black     - 116 

Blueberry    Tea    203 

Bridal    18 

Chocolate    Drop    123 

Chocolate     Layer     29 

Chocolate    Nougat    HI 

CofTee    210 

Cream    Layer    105 

Date      (Uncooked)      112 

Date    &   Nut  195 

Date  Bars  120-121 

Deliciou  s     - 106 

Devil's     Food     104-200 

Dinner  Table    (phot.)    ...130 

Dolly    Cakes 242 

Doughnuts     48-49-202 

Eng.   Wal.   &  Raisins       112 

Fillings      116-117-118 

Fruit    15-112-113-114 

115.-116-192-202 

Fruit    (Frozen)    15 

Fruit    (Japanese)    114 

Fruit     (Uncooked) 112 

Fruit    (White)   29-113 

Fudge    107 

Ginger    _ 117 

Icings    118-119-120 

Jack   in   the   Box  241 

Jam     ...- 115 

Jelly    Roll   ..110 

Lady    Baltimore    23 

Lane     106 

Le>-ion     Jelly     HO 

Libcity   2&S 

Macaroons 123 

Marble    109 

Mocha     107 

Nut    (Individual)    124 

One     Egg     205 

Orange    HO 

Pecan     Strips     121 

Pecan    White   Ill 

Pingapple    105 

Pound— Old  Fashioned  ..105 

Raisin    HI 

Ribbon    108 


Pag 

Rolled    Wafers    .^ 123 

Scripture  - 103 

Snow     - 20 

Sponge     107-108-192 

Tea  122-192 

Thrift     ., 204 

Walnut    Short   HI 

White     108-109-199 

CAKE    FILLINGS- 

Cream     ^^ 

Frosting    28 

Fruit    &    Nut    28 

Candy  (See  Confectionery) 

CANNTNG- 

Asparagus    ff^ 

Berrie s   219 

Carrots     221 

Cherries   220 

Figs    220 

Fig   Conserve    219 

Glass     216 

Grapes    - 221 

Grape    Ketchup    219 

Grape    Marmalade    218 

Grape   Mincemeat   219 

Hot    Water   Canner    215 

Jams   &  Marmalade  218 

Peach  Jam  219 

Plums    221 

Peaches    &   Pears    220 

Preserving  217 

Soup    Mixture    222 

Spiced    Grapes    218 

Steam    Pressure   215 

String    Beans    221 

Sweet  Peppers  222 

Tomatoes    222 

Carrot     Salad    70 

Cereals— 

Cream    of    Wheat    •'{^ 

Hominy     .-38 

Oatmeal     3/-226 

Pudding    (Fried   Indian)  39 

Rice— Boiled    226 

Rice— Steamed   38 

Shredded   Wheat   38 

Chili    Sauce    ..._ ■■■^-■-_:  95 

Chow- Chow   86-87-88 

Chutney     96-^7 

CHAFING  DISH- 

Cheese   Dish    ^9 

Cheese   Fondue   80 

Chicken    Almond     77 

Chicken   A   la   King  78 

Chicken    Omelet    77 

Crab   Meat   76 

Creamed    Oysters    80 

English     Monkey 78 

Fig    Cups    II 

Hot    Stufif    78 

Italian   Macaroni   /8 

Lobster   Newberg   "9-80 

Olive    Stuffed     Eggs    ....  77 
Oysters    a    la    D'Uxelles  80 

Pigs-in-Blankets     79 

Red    Devil    77 

Scotch    Woodcock    78 

Scrambled   Eggs   with   .... 

Calves'     Brains    80 

WoQdchuck     77 


INDEX— Continued 


Page 

Cheese^ 

Cheese   Dish   79 

Fondue     80 

Gelatine     68 

Mousse     55 

Relish    55 

Salad    55-56 

Souffle    55 

Cheese  Straw  ;    46 

Welsh    Rarebit    56 

CHICKEN— 

A   la    King   141-143 

Almond     - 77 

Baked     140 

Broiled    _ 27 

Creamed    27 

Croquettes     50-145 

Dumpling     1§4 

Filling'    for    Timbals    ....196 

Fricassee    144-208 

Fried     142 

Gumbo    l?9 

Jellied     143 

Pie    - 210-142 

Pie    (Mrs.    Harding)    14 

Pilau    144 

Pressed  143 

Roast     - 227 

Salad    196 

Smothered    143 

Sandwich  71 

Spaghetti    144 

Stuffing     141 

Woman's   Club    195 

Cl.ocolate — 

Iced    Milk    83 

Milk     Float 82 

Chop  Suey   151 

Chowder — Clam     136-137 

Chowder — Fish    134 

Clams — 

Chowder    ..136-137 

Fritters     - 137 

Salad     - 59 

Chops— Pork     151 

CONFECTIONERY— 

Baked   Bon   Bons 125 

Caramels   125-126 

Chocolate     Cream     ...29-129 

Date    Loaf   125 

Divinity     Creams     124 

Fondant  128 

French    Nougat    127 

Fudge    125-201 

Modern  Topics  127 

Molasses     127 

Parisian    Sweets    29-129 

Peanut    Brittle    128 

Peanut     Butter     127-128 

Pecans     (Sugared)     196 

Pop-Corn    Balls    128-129 

Pralines 218 

Rose   Cream    Mints    127 

Stuffed    Dates    125 

Conserve^ 

Apple     100 

Apple    Butter    196 

Cherry    100 

Crab    Apple    99 

Fig     .,...99-219 

Ginger    Pears    98 

Grape    100 

Cream    Tomato    99 


Page 

Peaches     97 

Pineapple   (Mock)   98 

Scuppernong  96 

Watermelon     Rind     98 

COOKIES— 

Boston    121 

Cocoanut     124 

Fruit    122 

Turn  bo     122 

kewpies     123-204 

Oatmeal     18 

COOKING  TIME  TABLE  34 

Corn — 

Croquettes   51 

Pudding  158 

Salad    166 

Crab   Meat- 
Creamed    76 

Deviled    138 

Stuffed    137 

Cranberry — 

Crystallized     140 

Snow    139 

Creole  Sauce  73 

CROQUETTES— 

Banana 51 

Brain     SI 

Chicken    50-145 

Corn     51 

Lobster     138 

Meat     52 

Nut    &   Potato 51 

Piedmont    50 

Rice     52 

Salmon     51 

Veal    50-51 

Croutons   131 

Crystallized     Cranberries  140 

Cucumber — 

Aspic     - 195 

Baskets    67 

Salad  - 65 

Sandwich   71 

DAINTY  DESSERTS- 

CHAPTER— 

Apricot    Ice 174 

Apricot    Jelly 172 

Apricot   Sherbet   172 

Bananas    Baked    172 

Banana    Custard    168 

Biscuit    Tortoni    176 

Bisque    Ice    Cream    172 

Charlotte   Russe  169 

Cherry    Gelatine    169 

Chocolate     Mousse     175 

Chocolate    Souffle    170 

Coffee    Gelatine 171 

Coffee    Mousse     176 

Frozen    Punch   168 

Frozen   Whip   175 

Fruit    171-174 

Fruit    Sherbet   175 

Havana    Cream    169 

Maple    Mousse    176 

Maple    Parfait    175 

Marshmallow  Dainty  ...169 
Marshmallow  Cream  ...169 
Marshmallow  Frappe  .169 
Marshmallow  Ice  Cream  172 

Milk    Sherbet 174 

Nesselrode     Pudding     ...176 


Page 

Nougat    Ice    Cream    173 

Orange    Sherbet   174 

Orange   Tapioca   171 

Peppermint    Ice    Cream  173 
Pineapple    Grapefruit   ....171 

Pineapple  Mousse  176 

Pineapple    Sherbet    174 

Prune    Souffle    170 

Ruby    Mousse    175 

Strawberry    Delight    171 

Tutti    Frultti     172 

Vanilla    Ice    Cream    173 

Date    Loaf    _ 125 

Dates— Stuffed  125 

DINNERS    131 

New    England    Boiled    .242 

Recipes     for    131 

Table    (Photo)    130 

DISCOVERIES     229 

Brooms  233 

Cleaning   Fluid   230 

Cocoanut     - 231 

Coloring     _ 233 

Corn,  &   Batter    Bread....231 

Cream     whipping    231 

Curdled    Milk    230 

Curdled   Mayonnaise  233 

Cut    Glass    .232 

Dry    Salt    232 

Dust     232-233 

Fish     229 

Fruit    Skins    230 

Frying    233 

Gasoline     23.j 

Ge'atin"    233 

(iilt    I-r;.mes   230 

Gravy     - 233 

Hair    Pins    232 

Icing    232 

Ink     Stands    231 

Insects    231-232 

Ironing    Boards 233 

Iodine     239 

Iron    Rust    232 

Mealy    Potatoes    233 

Meringue    229-234 

Milk    Sweetening    231 

Mint     230 

No    Starch   232 

Odors    233 

Pin    Feathers    23^ 

Potatoes    231-232 

Punch     23C 

Recipe    Holder    2J0 

Refrigerator    .229 

Refrigerator     Drippings234 

Relish     231 

Scorch     231-232-233 

Sealing   Jelly    231 

Setting    Colors    230 

Shelves     232 

Silver 229 

Sugar    Saving   232 

Tar    232 

To    Beat    Eggs    230 

Water    Cure    232 

Doughnuts     48-49-202 

Dressing 

Chicken     141 

Thick    Cream    56 

Duck— Roast     145 

Dumplings 

Apple     183 

Blackberry     183 

Cnickeu    184 

Peach    183 


INDEX— Continued 


Page 

EGGS— 

Au    Bechamel    52 

Beef    Omelet    [53 

Benedictine    54 

En  Surprise  191 

Fluffy   Omelet  "54 

Ham    Omelet    53 

Milk   and  Eg-g  54 

Omelet    for    Two    53 

Scrambled    _ 54 

With    Calves    Brains     ..  80 

Stuffed    55 

Sylvan   (Mrs.  Thomas)    194 
Tomato    Omelet    54 

FIRELESS  COOKERY  ...225 

Apple    Pie    228 

Baked  Macaroni  227 

Boiled    Rice    226 

Escalloped    Potatoes   ....'227 

Oatmeal   226 

Pumpkin     Pie    228 

Roast    Beef    227 

Roast   Chicken  227 

Roast    Lamb    ..227 

Snap    Beans    227 

Sotips    .,. 226 

Veal    Loaf     227 

FISH— 

A    la    Creole    211 

Balls    - 38 

Chowder    134 

Crab     212 

Cubion    212 

Discoveries    _ 229 

Fried    134 

Moulded     Halibut     134 

Shad—Broiled     134 

Shad     Roe 134 

Shrimp — Deviled     15 

Shrimp— Gumbo    134 

Planked    133 

Tartar   Sauce   212 

Tomato   &   Shrimp   212 

Tuna     133 

Fritters — 

Clam     _...137 

Green    Corn    27 

Frog    Legs    (Fried)    134 

FRUITS     (BREAKFAST)  36 
(See  Canning,   Desserts, 
etc.) 

Gas    (Economy     in)     31 

Ginger  Bread  117-44-122 

Gelatine 

Apricot     Jelly    172 

Charlotte     Russe     192 

Charlotte     205 

Cheese   Salad   68 

Cherry    169 

Coffee    171 

Nut    Salad    "...  66 

Pineapple    Grapefruit    .171 
Sylvan    Cream    192 

Goulash — 
Hungarian     242 

Gravy — 
Beef    Extract    for    233 

Gumbo — 

A    la    Creole    213 

Chicken     199 

File  '  209 


Page 

Shrimp    134 

Vegetable    161 

Ham — Baked 153 

Hash — Corned    Beef   155 

HOME    GARDENS   234 

Table    for    Planting   238 

ICES— 
Apricot     Sherbet     ....172-174 

Fruit    174 

Fruit   Cake — Frozen  15 

Fruit    Sherbet    175 

Milk   Sherbet   .174 

Orange   Sherbet   174 

Pineapple     Sherbet     174 

Sherbet 229 

ICE    CREAM— 

Bisque     172 

Frozen   Whip   175 

Marshmallow     178 

Nougat     173 

Orange   17 

Peppermint     173 

Tutti    Fruitti   .....i'2 

Vanilla     173 

Icing     (Discoveries)     232 

JAM— 

Grape     and     Nut     207 

Peach    219 

Seedless    Blackberry    ....  99 
Strawberry     99 

JELLY— 

Apple     204 

Chicken     143 

Crab    Apple    100 

Cranberry     101 

Gooseberry     ..., 101 

Grape    101 

Quince    101 

Paradise     101 

Pineapple    102 

Jelly    Roll   110 

KITCHEN     ARRANGE- 
MENT      18 

KITCHEN  FURNISHING  13 

LAMB— 

Lamb   Cuts    (PhotJ   152 

Ba  rbecued    194 

Roast     155 

Lemon   Whip   209 

Liver  (Bacon)   149 

LOBSTER— 

Croquette 138 

Newberg    80 

Stewed    138 

LUNCHES—  " 

Lunches     223 

Business    Man's    .,..224 

Business     Woman's 224 

School   Child's   224 

Luncheon     Table    (Phot.)..  58 
(Mrs.    W.   H.    Kiser's) 

Macaroni — 
Baked   with   Cheese  .......227 

With    Tomato    Sauce    ....243 

Italian     78 

Macaroons    123 

Marmalade — 
Carrot     99 


Page 

Grape    218 

Orange     99-209 

MEATS— 

Beef     (Roast)     227 

Boullet     _ 156 

Brain    Cutlets    196 

Ca  ke  s    155 

Lamb    (Roast) 227 

Rice     Casserole    147 

Pork    Chops 151 

Corn    Beef    199 

Ham    &    Eggs    244 

Mutton    (Pot    Roast)    ....199 

Meat    Pie    153 

Pot    Roast    _ 153 

Sausage     _ _ 19 

Stock     _ 147 

Veal  Cutlets  199 

Veal    Daube    Glace   213 

Veal    Loaf   '. ....227 

Meringue     ji229-234 

Milk    (Prevent   Curdling  )230 

Milk    (To    Sweeten)    231 

Mint    (To    keep    fresh)    ...230 

MOUSSE- 

Chocolate    175 

Coffee     .,  176 

Maple "176 

Pineapple    _ 176 

Ruby    _ irS 

Pimento     19 

Muffins    28-46-47-2(0 

NEEDFUL   FAC^S  30 

New  England  Boiled  Din- 
ner     2 12 

OYSTERS— 

A    la    D'Uxelles    80 

Baked    16 

Broiled'   135 

Creamed    _ 80 

Fried     212 

A    la    Thornton    135 

Loaf   (New   Orleans)   211 

On    Half    Shell    135 

Pi'g«-in-BIanlvets     79 

Stew     136 

Toast     136 

Pastry — 

French     _  182 

One-Two-Three    182 

Pie   Crust  182 

PERCENTAGE    TABLE 
(BEEF)    148 

PICKLES— 

Artichoke     '. 91-93 

Cabbage     90 

Chili    Rehsh    203 

Chili    Sauce   95 

Chow-Chow   86-87-88 

Chutn«jy   Sauce  97 

Corn     Salad     93 

Cucumber     89 

Damson   Plum   92 

Dutch    Salad 89 

Green     Tomato     .95-96 

Indian  Chutney  97 

John    Mack    Tomato   97 

Zvli.xed  Yellow  208 

Mustard    88-89 

Pepper    Hash    93 

Pepper   Relish   94 

Plum    Chutney    96 

Plum  Sauce  96 


INDEX— Continued 


Pnge 

Rummage     90 

Spiced    (jreen   Tomato   ..  94 

Sauer  Kraut   91 

Soy     Relish     9o 

Sweet   Peach  91 

Watermelon    Rind    92 

PIE— 

Amber    189 

Banana 190 

Burnt   Caramel 187 

Butter    Scotch 18S-185 

Caramel   187-194 

Chicken     :.... 142-210 

Chocolate    201 

Cocoanvit     18t 

Crust   182 

English    Apple    188 

Jam    _ 186 

Lemon    Custard    188 

Lemon    Meringue    202 

Macaroon 189 

Meat    Ii3 

Mince    Meat    186 

Mock    Cherry    188-189 

Molasses   186-190 

Pineapple    187 

Planked    Fish    133 

Pork    Cuts    (Phot.)    154 

POTATO— 

Bake    Mealy    - 233 

Bake    Ouicker    -232 

Dutch    - 167 

Rabun   19i 

Scalloped 160-227 

Soup     231 

Surprise     159 

POULTRY— 

Roast   Turkey     -139 

Preserves — 

Apple    Conserve   103 

Carrot  Marmalade  99 

Crab     Apple     99 

Cranberry    Jelly.- 101 

Lady    Baltimore    210 

Popovers     47 

Prune    Whip   1" 

Pl'DDIXOS— 

Apple    Easy    181 

Banana     177 

Blackberry     180 

Cabinet     182 

Carrot   27 

Cocoanut     •. 180 

Christmas     Plum     181 

Chocolate    178 

Date 19-179-180-181 

Eggless    177 

Feather    18 

Fig    : 201 

I-  rozen    182 

Indian-baked     j 178 

Kiss    179 

Macaroon      180 

Nesselrode     176 

Nut     177 

Orange    201 

Plum    180 

Savory      243 

Southern      179 

Steamed     Huckleberry   ..  16 
Sweet    Potato   ...178-210 


Page 

Punch — 

Clear    85 

Club     83 

Fruit      82-84 

Ginger  Ale  84-85 

Norman     81 

Oriental    83 

Silver   Spoon    230 

Rabbit      146 

RELISHES— 
Added    to   Dumplings    .  .231 

Chili    Sauce    95 

Chow    Chow    86-87-88 

Chutney     Sauce    96-97 

Rice   Croquettes   52 

Rice    &   Meat   151 

Rolls      46-48-193 

SALADS— 

A   la    Russe    69 

Alligator     Pear     64 

Apple     67 

As    You    Like    It    62 

Baked     Apple 61 

Bolivia     , 59 

Candle  61 

Cheese    Gelatine    68 

Cherry     65 

Chicken     196 

Clam    Salad     59 

Cold     Slaw   69 

Corn      161 

Crab     _ 212 

Cream    Dressing    59 

Cucumber     Baskets    67 

Cucumber     65 

Delicious     66 

Easter    Egg    65 

Eclairs    Filled    15 

English     65 

English  Walnut   70 

French    Dressing    17 

Frozen      64-214 

Frozen    Pear  60 

Fruit    Aspic 69 

Fruit    for    Sixteen    63 

Fruit    62-64-65-16 

Ginger    Ale    63 

Grapefruit   &   Pineapple    69 

Guacamole     65 

TelHed     Apple    15 

"Jellied    Veal    68 

Marion     Club      62 

Ma rshm allow 61-67 

Mayonnaise     63 

Moulded    Shrimp    61 

Nut     Gelatine 65 

Orange    Peanut    66 

Ovster     60 

Pear 64 

Perfection     .  68 

Pimento   Mousse    19 

Pineapple    &  Cucumber..  59 

Pineapple      203 

Poinsetta     208 

Raw    Carrot    70 

Shrimp      68-69 

Tomato    &   Chicken    58 

Tomato   &   Egg  66 

Tomato    &    Shrimp    ..  ....  212 

Vegetable     200-64 

Whipped   Cream   18-59 

Sala.d     Dressing    72 

Cooked     73 

Creole 73 

Egeless   Boiled   75 

Hollandaise     _ 74 


Page 

Italian     75 

Lettuce     73 

Mayonnaise     73-74 

Roquefort    Cheese    75 

Slaw     74 

Thousand   Island    ...73-75-18 

Whipped    Cream    74 

Salmon     Mousse 138 

Salt-(to     dry)     232 

SANDWICH— 

Chicken     71 

Cucumber     71 

Different     70 

Fried    200 

Ham     70 

Orange    Honey    72 

Oriental     70 

Pimento     72 

Prune      71 

Raisin     71 

Ribbon    71 

Rolled    72 

Sardine 72 

Scalloped     Potatoes    160 

SOUFFLE— 

Chocolate    170 

Prune 170 

Sweet    Potato    22 

Banana     60 

Cheese     55-56 

Sally     Lunn    47 

Salmon    Croquettes    51 

SAUCE- 

Almond      140 

Caramel     184 

Chili     156-207 

Foaming    184 

Hard    185-192 

Lemon      ..., 14-184-185-188 

Mint     156-157-199 

Russian      214 

Tartar     157-212 

Tomato  156 

Vanilla    184 

Virginia     157 

Woodford      184 

Yellow     185 

SHRIMP— 

Gumlio    134 

Peppers    (stuffed    with)  .212 
Pickled     ...136 

SO UPS- 
Clam 132 

Cream   of   Onion   131 

Tomato     113-227 

Kidney    Bean    132 

Stock      226 

N'egetable    132 

Spagetti— 

Chicken      144 

Italian     197-241 

Mexican     242 

SPAGHETTI— 

Broiled      153 

Swiss      149 

With    Oysters    151 

Stew-Brunswick  144 

Stuffing    141 

Sweetbreads  191 

Sweetbreads    (Mock)     195 


INDEX— Continued 


Page 

SWEET  POTATO- 

Baked      22 

Cakes      24 

Candied    Yams    22-24 

Casserole     23 

Creamed     24-26 

Croquettes    24 

Custard      22 

Delight     23 

Fried    21 

Meringue     26 

Osca,r's      25 

Pie     22 

Pig-in-a-pen     22 

Pone     25 

Pudding     _ 25 

Raisin     23 

Roast    Opossum   21 

Souffle    22-23 

TEMPERATURE    TABLE* 

31 

TERMS  IN  COOKING  ....  30 
Thousand  Island   Dressing 

18 

Toast    Golden   Rod,   56 

Tomatoes    (Stuffed)     163 

Turkey,    (Scalloped)     140 

Turkey,    (Roast)    139 

Uncle    Remus    Recipes...  15 
\'eal— 
Croquettes    50-51 


Page 

Daube    Glace    213 

Loaf      147-227 

VEGETABLES— 

Asparagus    158-166 

Asparagus    Ambush    162 

Timbals    (Asparagus)    ....158 

Baked     Beans    164 

Beans    &   Mushrooms   ....165 

Beets     162 

Butter    Beans    165 

Cabbage     (Scalloped)     ...165 

Carrot    Pudding   27 

Celery     (Sylvan)     191 

Celery     (Creamed)     191 

Corn     (Fried)     166 

Corn    Oysters    162 

Corn     Pudding    158 

Corn     Salad      161-166 

Cucvunbers    (Sliced)    161 

Egg    Plant 

(Casserole)   160-161 

Egg    Plant    214 

Gumbo      161 

Hopping    John    162 

Okra      161 

Peppers    (Spanish)    160 

Peppers    (Stuffed)    160 

(212-244) 
Potato    Dutchess    20 


Page 

Potato    (Dutch)    167 

Potatoes    Lyonnkise    167 

Potato    Puff    160 

Patato    Scallop    .160 

Potato      Surprise    159 

Rice     (Boiled)    .213 

Sauer    Kraut    91 

Succotash     165 

Spinach    159 

Squash     (Fried)     162 

String  Beans  164 

Planting    Table    238 

Tomato     (Scalloped)    159 

Tomato    (Stuffed)    ....159-163 

Tomato  Fritters 163 

Turnips      163 

Turnip     Salad    164 

VENISON^ 

Steak 145 

Roast 145 

Waffle 14-16-49-200 

Wedding  Table    (Photo)....240 
WEIGHTS  AND 

MEASURES    33 

Welsh  Rarebit  56 

WORKING    SCHEDULE..  12 


S|:::^:^-^-Hss. 


^^^"^488  291  A 


0 


