Historic,  arcliived  document 


Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


AUNT  SAMMY^ 


it 


Developed  by 
THE  BUREAU  OF  HOME  ECONOMICS 

VS.  DEPARTMENT 
OF  AGRICVUVRE 


AUNT  SAMMY'S  RADIO 
RECIPES' 


A  compilation  of  70  menus  and  about  300  recipes  developed  by  the 
Bureau  of  Home  Economics 


CONTENTS 


Page 

Menus   1 

Soups    9 

Fruits   11 

Vegetable  dishes     14 

Efrg  and  cheese  dishes    23 

Meats   27 

Fish  and  shellfish   38 

Poultry   41 

Salads  and  salad  dressings   44 


MufiSns  and  other  quick  breads   49 

Puddings  and  frozen  desserts   62 

Sauces    61 

Pics  and  other  pastries.    63 

Cakes,  cookies,  and  cake  frostings   69 

Confections.    76 

Preserves,  jams,  and  relishes    79 

Sandwiches      85 


MENUS 
BREAKFAST  MENUS 


Stewed  rhubarb. 
Omelet. 

Toast.  • 

Beverage. 

Orange  juice. 

Creamed  eggs  and  dried  beef. 
Corn  bread. 
Beverage. 

Strawberries  and  cream. 

Hot  cakes  and  maple  sii-up. 
Beverage. 

Baked  apples. 

Poached  eggs  on  toast. 
Beverage. 


Sliced  bananas  and  cream. 
Bacon. 

Coffee  cake. 
Beverage. 

Grapefruit. 

Potato  and  fish  cakes. 
Hot  biscuits. 
Beverage. 

Stewed  prunes  and  apricots. 

Cooked  cereal  and  top  milk. 
Pop-overs. 
Beverage. 


1  Aunt  Sammy's  Radio  Recipes  is  in  no  sense  a  complete  cookbook.  It  is  issued  to  meet  the  enormous 
demand  for  printed  copies  of  the  most  popular  recipes  broadcast  from  October,  1926,  to  June,  1927,  in  the 
"Housekeepers'  Chat"  programs  of  the  radio  service,  United  States  Department  of  Agriculturo. 


(1) 


61306'— 27 


2 


DINNER  MENUS  FOR  OCTOBER 

Meat  loaf,  brown  gravy. 
Riced  potatoes. 

Carrots  or  beets. 
Pepper  pickle. 
Lemon  jelly. 

Liver  and  bacon. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Fresh  sliced  tomatoes. 

Blue  plum  sauce  and  "best-evers."  . 

Roast  leg  of  lamb,  with  onions. 
Fresh  or  canned  peas. 
Tart  jelly. 

Baked  peaches. 

Spinach  with  hard-cooked  eggs. 
Fried  squash. 

Baked  potatoes. 

Apple  dumplings  with  sauce. 

Veal  cutlet  and  gravy. 
Stuffed  eggplant. 
Tart  jelly. 

Hot  biscuits. 

Sliced  tomatoes  and  onions. 
Peach  sauce. 

Broiled  lamb  chops. 

Baked  potatoes  in  the  half  shell. 
Sauerkraut. 

Celery  and  apple  salad. 

Gingerbread  with  whipped  cream. 

Mock  duck. 

Five-minute  cabbage. 

Candied  sweet  potatoes. 
Stuffed  tomato  salad. 

DINNER  MENUS  FOR  NOVEMBER 

Veal  pie. 

Harvard  beets. 
String  beans. 

Crisp  lettuce  salad. 
Peach  dainty 

Oysters  scalloped  with  rice. 
Stewed  tomatoes. 
Mixed  piclde. 

Watercress  or  lettuce  salad. 
Upside-down  apple  cake. 


3 


Fish  chowder,  with  toast  or  toasted  crackers. 
Celery  and  cheese  salad. 
Gooseberry  pie. 

Baked  rabbit. 

String  beans. 

Scalloped  apples. 
Hot  biscuits. 

Orange  gelatin. 

Chicken  en  casserole. 
Mashed  potatoes. 

Quick-cooked  spinach  or  carrots. 
Apple  salad. 

Bean  soup. 

Macaroni  with  cheese. 

Stewed  tomatoes  and  celery. 
Lemon  meringue  pie. 

THANKSGIVING  DAY 

Fruit  cup. 

Roast  turkey  or  roast  chicken,  with  stuffing. 
Giblet  gravy. 

Mashed  potatoes,  or  candied  sweet  potatoes. 
Brussels  sprouts,  cauliflower,  or  spinach. 
Cranberry  jelly. 

Lettuce  salad  with  Russian  dressing. 
Celery. 
Nuts. 

Bread  and  butter. 
Pumpkin  or 
Squash  pie. 
Coffee. 

DINNER  MENUS  FOR  DECEMBER 

Vegetable  vitamin  soup. 
Cold  meat. 

Rolls  and  butter. 
Relish. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Baked  apples. 

Rabbit  en  casserole. 
Cabbage  salad. 

Apple  turnovers. 

Fresh  or  canned  salmon  with  egg  sauce, 
Riced  potatoes. 
Pepper  pickle. 
String  beans. 

Baked  pears. 

Lamb  stew. 

Boiled  flaky  rice. 

Lettuce  salad  with  a  tart,  spicy  dressing. 
Chocolate  pie. 


4 


Creamed  oysters  on  toast  or  in  patty  shells. 
Potato  chips. 

Cabbage  salad  with  mayonnaise-chili-sauce  dressing. 
Sliced  oranges  and  bananas. 

CHRISTMAS  DINNER  NO.  1 

Roast  turkey  with  bread  stuffing,  or  roast  goose  with  potato  stuffing. 
Giblet  gravy. 

Turnips  and  spinach,  or  Brussels  sprouts  and  squash. 
Celery. 

Cranberry  jelly  or  cranberry  sauce. 
Tomato  aspic  salad. 
Plum  pudding. 

Mince  pie  or  frozen  mousse  with  Christmas  cookies. 
Nuts  and  fruit. 
Coffee. 

CHRISTMAS  DINNER  NO.  2 

Christmas  chicken  or  roast  pork  loin. 
String  beans. 

Candied  sweet  potatoes. 
Currant  or  apple  jelly. 
Grapefruit  salad. 

Cranberry  pudding  supreme. 
Nuts  and  fruit. 
Coffee. 

DINNER  MENUS  FOR  JANUARY 
NEW  YEAR'S  DINNER  NO.  1 

Baked  ham. 

Fried  pineapple. 

Baked  white  or  sweet  potatoes. 
Vegetable  salad. 

Upside-down  apple  cake. 

NEW  YEAR'S  DINNER  NO.  2 

Roast  lamb. 
Peas. 

Mint  or  currant  jelly. 

Roast  potatoes,  or  scalloped  parsnips. 
Red  cabbage  salad  or  slaw. 
Cranberry  pie. 

Boiled  dinner. 

Corn  bread,  muffins,  or  crusty  rolls. 

Hot  gingerbread  with  cream  cheese,  date,  and  nut  filling. 

Vegetables  with  pork. 
Sour  pickles. 

Rolls  and  butter. 
Canned  fruit. 

Orange  drop  cooldes. 


5 


Chicken  rizotto.  ' 

Carrots  in  parsley  butter. 

Lettuce  or  cabbage  salad. 

Apple  dumplings  with  sauce. 

Pickled  pigs'  feet. 
Sauerkraut. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes. 
Corn  bread. 

Stewed  dried  apricots  and  cake. 

Corn  fritters. 

Glazed  onions. 

Scalloped  tomatoes. 

Pickle  or  sour  relish  or  lettuce  salad. 
Jellied  prunes. 

•     DINNER  MENUS  FOR  FEBRUARY 

Rabbit  pie  with  vegetables. 

Panned  kale. 

Cinnamon  apples. 
Cookies. 

Potato  soup. 

Bacon  and  fried  apples. 
Cornmeal  muffins. 
Vegetable  salad. 

Swiss  steak. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes,  or  hot  riced  potatoes. 
Spinach,  kale,  or  other  green  vegetable. 
Dill  pickles. 

Baked  bananas  with  lemon  sauce. 

Beefsteak. 

French  fried  potatoes. 
Creamed  celery. 
Pickled  beets. 

Orange  russe. 

Black-eyed  peas,  or  kidney  beans. 
Stewed  tomatoes  and  onions. 

Lettuce  salad  with  French  dressing. 

Washington  pie  with  jam  or  jelly  filling. 

Breast  of  lamb  with  spinach  stuffing. 
Rutabaga  turnips. 
Baked  potatoes. 

Brown  Betty  with  cream. 

Boiled  ham. 

Scalloped  potatoes. 

Quick-cooked  cabbage. 
Apple  sauco. 


6 


DINNER  MENUS  FOR  MARCH' 

Creamed  eggs. 

Baked  potatoes. 
Spinach. 

Rhubarb  pie. 

Shepherd's  pie. 
String  beans. 

Pickled  beets. 

Caramel  cake. 

Canned  fruit. 

Omelet  with  Spanish  sauce. 
Baked  potatoes. 

Creamed  cauliflower. 

Hot  graham  biscuits. 
Fruit  cup. 

^  Fricasseed  chicken  with  dumplings. 
Canned  asparagus. 
Mashed  carrots. 

Coffee  gelatin  with  cream. 

Pot  roast  of  beef. 

Browned  parsnips. 

Scalloped  tomatoes. 
Pickles. 

Old-fashioned  creamy  rice  pudding. 

Scalloped  onions  and  peanuts. 
Buttered  cabbage. 
Ginger  pears. 

Graham  muffins. 
Cherry  pie. 

Boston  baked  beans. 
Codfish  balls. 

Stewed  tomatoes  and  celery. 
Pickles. 

Boston  brown  bread. 

Grapefruit  salad  with  cheese  wafers. 

DINNER  MENUS  FOR  APRIL 

Finnan  haddie  with  egg  sauce. 
Riced  potatoes. 
Canned  peas. 

Cabbage  salad  with  celery. 
Lemon  pie. 

Fresh  sliced  beef  tongue. 

Wilted  dandelion  greens. 
Fried  potato  cakes. 
Banana  pudding. 


7 


Chicken  loaf. 
Asparagus. 

Hot  Sally  Lunn. 

Ice  cream  and  fresh  strawberry  sauce. 
Angel  food  cake. 

Veal  timbales. 

Fried  apples  and  carrots. 
Buttered  cabbage. 
Rhubarb  tarts. 

Cold  sliced  corned  beef. 
Vegetable  curry. 
Radishes. 

Gingerbread  with  cream  cheese  filling. 

Roast  beef. 

Yorkshire  pudding. 
Creamed  onions. 
Spring  greens. 

Apricot  whip. 

Kidney  stew. 

Buttered  beets. 
Lettuce  salad. 

Oatmeal  muffins. 

Stewed  rhubarb  with  sponge  cake. 

DINNER  MENUS  FOR  MAY 

Roast  lamb  with  mint  sauce. 
Baked  or  boiled  potatoes. 
Peas. 

One-crust  apple  pie. 

Beef  roU. 

Poke  shoots  or  other  spring  greens. 
Caramel  custard. 

Cold  meat. 

Baked  onions  with  tomato  sauce. 
Baked  potatoes. 

Hot  biscuits  and  butter. 
Strawberry  jam. 

Clam  chowder. 

Crackers  or  toast. 

Lettuce  salad  with  a  tart  dressing. 
Cream  puffs  with  custard  filling. 

Fresh  fish. 

Scalloped  asparagus  and  spaghetti. 
Pickled  beets. 

Sliced  pineapple  and  strawberries. 


8 

Baked  eggs  and  cheese. 
Peas. 

New  potatoes  with  parsley  butter. 
Strawberry  shortcake. 

Chicken  shortcake. 
String  beans. 

Buttered  carrots. 

Strawberry  ice  cream. 

LUNCH  OR  SUPPER  MENUS 

Corn  chowder. 

Dried  beef  toasted  sandwiches. 
Apple  salad. 

Ginger  cookies. 

Onion  soup  au  gratin. 
Vegetable  salad. 

Canned  or  stewed  dried  fruit. 

Toasted  cheese  sandwiches  with  tomato  sauce. 
Canned  pear  salad. 
Prune  whip. 

Omelet  with  Spanish  sauce. 
Baked  potatoes. 

Apple  turnovers. 

Fried  brains  and  eggs. 
Hot  scalloped  apples. 

Hot  biscuits  and  honey. 

Savory  meat  on  toast. 

Spring  onions  or  lettuce  salad. 
Blackberry  flummery. 

Cheese  souffle. 

Hot  or  cold  slaw. 

Cranberry  muffins. 
Cocoa. 


SOUPS 


MILK-VEGETABLE  SOUPS 


Milk- vegetable  soups  are  made  from  cooked  vegetables  (chopped 
or  sliced)  and  milk  (whole  or  skim)  slightly  thickened.  The  vege- 
tables may  be  asparagus,  peas,  beans  of  various  kinds,  celery,  pota- 
toes, turnips,  carrots,  spmach,  onions,  com,  cabbage,  or  almost  any 
other  vegetable.  Some  of  these  are  good  in  combination,  as  potatoes 
and  onions,  potatoes  and  turnips,  turnips  and  carrots. 

2  cups  milk.  Salt. 

1  tablespoon  flour  or  less.  %    cup   cooked    vegetables,  finely 

1  tablespoon  butter.  chopped,  mashed,  or  strained. 

Thicken  the  milk  with  the  flour  as  for  white  sauce.  Add  the 
other  mgrcdients.  If  the  vegetable  is  starchy,  use  less  flour  or  thin 
the  soup  with  milk.  The  vegetables  should  be  finely  chopped, 
mashed,  or  strained,  so  that  they  will  blend  well  with  the  thickened 
milk. 

VEGETABLE  VITAMIN  SOUP 


1  cup  tomato  juice. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  green  pepper. 
6  tablespoons  butter. 

3  teaspoons  salt. 


54  teaspoon  pepper. 


1  cup  diced  carrots. 
1  cup  chopped  onion, 
cups  chopped  celery. 

1  cup  diced  turnips. 

2  cups  diced  potatoes. 
2  quarts  meat  stock. 

Brown  all  the  vegetables,  except  the  potatoes,  m  the  butter  in  a 
skillet  for  about  10  miautes.  This  helps  develop  the  flavor.  Then 
place  the  contents  of  the  skillet  in  a  saucepan.  Wash  out  the  parti- 
cles of  browned  vegetables  clinging  to  the  skillet  and  add  to  the 
stock  in  the  saucepan.  Boil  20  minutes;  then  add  the  potatoes 
and  the  tomato  juice.  Cook  10  to  20  minutes  longer.  The  potatoes 
are  added  last,  because  they  do  not  require  much  time  to  cook.  If 
added  with  the  other  vegetables,  they  would  be  overcooked. 


BEAN  SOUP 


Bean  soup  may  be  made  with  any  one  of  several  kinds  of  beans — 
navy  beans,  Imia  beans,  red  kidney  beans,  black  beans,  pinto  beans, 
and  soy  beans. 

Half  a  pint  of  the  dried  beans  will  be  enough  for  a  family  of  five. 
Soak  the  beans  overnight  in  a  quart  of  water.  Cook  in  the  same 
water  until  very  soft.  If  the  flavor  of  onion  is  desired,  cook  one  or 
two  slices  with  the  beans.  A  fireless  cooker  is  excellent  for  cooking 
the  beans.  Mash  the  beans  through  a  sieve  when  they  are  done. 
Add  water  and  milk  or  meat  broth  enough  to  make  up  a  full  quart. 

All  bean  soups  should  have  a  little  flour  added  to  them  as  a  binder 
to  prevent  the  thick  part  from  settluig  to  the  bottom.  Mix  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Add  a  little  of  the  hot 
soup  and  stu*  until  smooth.  Add  the  remaining  soup  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.    Heat  to  boiling,  then  cook  in  the  double  boiler 

eioee"— 27 — 2  (9) 


10 


about  10  miButes.  Celery  or  any  otlier  appropriate  vegetables  may 
be  cooked  with  the  soup.  They  should  be  cut  up  in  small  pieces. 
A  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  the  soup  at  the  last 
minute  is  an  agreeable  addition.  A  pinch  of  mustard  and  a  little 
lemon  juice  are  good  when  black  beans  are  used.  Some,  people  like 
minced  hard-cooked  egg  and  thin  slices  of  lemon  over  the  top  of  the 
soup. 

QUICK  TURNIP  SOUP 


4  cups  milk. 

2  cups  grated  raw  turnip. 

IM  teaspoons  salt. 

3^  teaspoon  grated  onion. 


1  tablespoon  flour. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 

teaspoon  parsley,  cut  very  fine. 


Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  flour  and  butter,  which 
have  been  well  blended,  then  the  turnip,  the  onion,  and  the  salt. 
Cook  until  the  turnip  is  tender,  or  for  about  10  minutes.  Sprinkle 
the  parsley  in  the  soup  just  before  serving. 

With  this  soup,  serve  toasted  cubes  of  bread  or  croutons.  An 
easy  way  to  make  croutons  is  to  spread  slices  of  bread  lightly  with 
butter.  Cut  each  slice  into  strips,  then  into  cubes.  Brown  the 
cubes  in  the  oven. 

ONION  SOUP  AU  GRATIN 


3  cups  meat  broth. 

6  medium  sized  onions,  chopped. 
13^  teaspoons  salt. 

4  tablespoons  flour. 


2  tablespoons  cold  water. 

Pepper. 

Toast. 

Cheese. 


Cook  the  chopped  onions  in  a  small  amount  of  water  until  tender. 
Add  2  tablespoons  of  fat  from  the  meat  broth  or  the  same  quantity 
of  butter  and  let  the  onions  cook  down  in  this  until  they  are  yellow. 
Mix  them  with  the  meat  broth  and  thicken  with  the  flour  and  cold 
water  which  have  been  well  blended.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes. 
Pour  the  soup  into  bowls  or  soup  plates,  place  on  top  a  round  or 
slice  of  toasted  bread,  and  spriakle  grated  cheese  over  the  bread 
and  soup.    Serve  at  once. 

CREAM  OF  SPINACH  SOUP 


1  quart  milk. 

1  cup  raw  ground  spinach. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 


2  tablespoons  flour. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 


Place  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  with  the  salt.  Wash  the  spinach, 
and  chop  or  grind  it.  If  ground,  place  a  bowl  to  catch  the  liquid 
which  runs  from  the  grinder  and  add  to  the  spinach.  Mix  the  flour 
and  butter  until  well  blended  and  add  to  the  milk  with  the  ground 
spinach.  Stir  until  thickened,  and  the  spinach  is  cooked.  This  takes 
about  10  minutes. 


FRUITS 


APPLE  COMPOTE 

Pare  the  apples,  core  them  carefully,  and  cut  in  half-inch  pieces. 
Make  a  rich  sirup,  1  cup  of  sugar  to  1  cup  of  water.  Add  the  pieces 
of  apple  to  the  boiling  sirup.  Cook  till  the  apples  are  transparent. 
Commercial  coloring  matter  or  cinnamon  candies  added  to  the  sirup 
give  the  apples  a  pleasing  color.  These  apple  slices  are  very  pretty 
as  a  garnish  for  meats. 

SCALLOPED  APPLES 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  tart  apples,  preferably  those  of  a  kind  that 
will  hold  their  shape  when  cooked.  Place  a  layer  of  the  sliced  apples 
in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  dot  with  butter,  or  pour  on  a 
little  melted  butter.  Put  in  another  layer  of  apples  and  keep  on 
until  the  dish  is  heaping  full.  Press  the  apples  down  and  put  in 
as  many  as  possible.  Cover  the  dish  and  cook  the  apples  slowly  for 
from  1  to  hours  in  the  oven.  As  the  apples  cook  down  during 
the  first  half  hour,  a  few  more  may  be  added.  Fifteen  minutes 
before  the  apples  are  to  be  served  remove  the  cover  and  spread 
buttered  bread  crumbs  over  the  top.  Return  to  the  oven  and  let 
the  crumbs  become  golden  brown  and  crisp.  The  apples  themselves 
will  be  in  whole  pieces  and  almost  transparent.  Some  kinds  will  be 
pink  in  color.  Scalloped  apples  are  good  served  hot  with  the  main 
course  of  dinner  or  supper. 

BAKED  APPLES 

Wash  the  apples  and  core  them.  Be  careful  not  to  cut  through 
the  blossom  end  when  removing  the  core.  Place  the  apples  in  a 
baking  dish;  fill  the  holes  with  sugar  and  butter.  Add  a  few  drops 
of  lemon  juice  for  each  apple,  if  desired.  Add  just  enough  water 
to  keep  the  apples  from  sticking.  Very  juicy  apples  do  not  need 
water.  Cover  the  baking  dish  or  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
the  apples  are  soft.  Apples  cook  more  quickly  in  a  covered  vessel, 
because  the  steam  is  held  in. 

Serve  baked  apples  hot  or  cold,  with  or  without  cream.  In  the 
fall,  when  apples  are  at  their  best,  spices  are  not  necessary,  but  in 
the  spring,  spice  is  an  improvement.  Raisins  also  are  good  with 
baked  apples. 

Some  apples,  such  as  the  Winesap,  have  more  jellying  power  than 
others.  If  cooked  long  enough,  the  juice  forms  a  jelly.  When 
apples  of  this  kind  are  baked  through,  remove  them  from  the  baking 
dish  and  concentrate  the  juice,  adding  a  little  more  sugar  if  necessary. 
Then  place  the  jelly  over  the  baked  apples. 


(11) 


12 


FRIED  APPLES  AND  BACON 

Select  good  tart  apples.  Peel  them.  Cut  tliem  in  1-inch  cubes. 
Fry  the  bacon  in  a  heavy  skillet.  As  soon  as  the  slices  of  bacon  are 
crisp,  remove  and  drain  them  on  clean  brown  paper  and  keep  in  a 
warm  place.  Leave  about  one-fourth  cup  of  bacon  fat  in  the  skillet 
and  fill  it  up  with  the  apples.  Sprinkle  on  two  or  three  tablespoons 
of  sugar.  Apples  fried  this  way  require  a  little  more  sugar  than 
ordinary  fried  apples.  Cover  the  apples.  Cook  slowly  until  tender. 
Then  remove  the  cover  and  turn  the  apples  gently,  so  the  pieces  will 
keep  their  shape.  Let  them  brown  lightly.  They  are  then  almost 
transparent.  Place  them  on  a  hot  platter,  and  surround  them  with 
the  crisp  bacon. 

APPLE  SAUCE 

Wash,  peel,  quarter,  and  core  the  apples;  or  if  the  sauce  is  to  be 
put  through  a  colander,  leave  the  skins  on.  Cook  the  apples  in  a 
covered  pan,  using  just  enough  water  to  keep  them  from  scorching. 
If  apples  are  cooked  in  a  covered  pan,  the  steam  will  help  to  cook 
them.  Cook  rapidly,  until  the  apples  are  soft,  adding  a  little  more 
water  if  necessary.  If  the  skins  have  been  left  on,  put  the  sauce 
through  a  colander  or  a  sieve  and  then  sweeten  to  taste.  A  dash 
of  salt  and  a  little  butter  improve  the  flavor.  Adding  the  sugar 
after  the  apples  are  strained  gives  a  fresher  taste  and  saves  sugar. 
One  need  not  waste  sugar  on  the  apple  sauce  which  does  not  go 
through  the  sieve. 

Variety  of  flavor  may  be  secured  by  adding  spices,  such  as  cin- 
namon, nutmeg,  or  cloves,  or  lemon  juice.  Nutmeg  should  be  used 
only  on  apple  sauce  which  is  to  be  eaten  at  once.  Apple  sauce 
flavored  with  nutmeg  is  apt  to  become  bitter  on  standing.  The 
best-flavored  apples  make  the  best  sauce. 

FRUIT  CUP 

Many  combinations  of  fruit,  fresh  or  canned,  may  be  used  for 
fruit  cup.  Use  colors  that  blend,  and  combine  acid  fruit  with  sweet. 
Grapes,  oranges,  grapefruit,  canned  pineapple,  and  white  cherries 
are  attractive.  Mix  the  fruit  and  chill  for  about  one-half  hour  before 
serving. 

STRAWBERRIES  SUPREME 

3^  pint  double  cream.  I  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  quart  selected  very  ripe  berries.       |  H  cup  or  more  powdered  sugar. 

Wash  the  berries  well,  drain,  and  cap.  Whip  the  cream  until 
thick,  add  the  salt  and  the  sugar.  Continue  the  whipping  until 
all  are  well  blended.  Fold  the  berries  into  the  cream  untH  each 
berry  is  coated  with  the  cream.  Take  care  not  to  crush  them. 
Serve  at  once.  If  the  berries  stand  after  combining  with  the  cream, 
the  juice  is  likely  to  be  drawn  from  them  and  the  cream  thinned. 


13 


BAKED  PEACHES 

Select  large  yellow  peaches,  pare  them,  and  cut  them  in  halves. 
Place  in  a  shallow  pan,  pit  side  up.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar, 
dot  with  butter,  and  add  a  little  salt.  Broil  under  a  flame  or  bake 
in  the  oven  until  the  peaches  are  tender  and  lightly  browned. 

BAKED  PEARS 

Wash  the  pears,  cut  them  in  halves,  and  core  them.  Place  in  a 
baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  brown  sugar  and  a  little  salt,  dot  with 
butter,  and  add  a  very  little  water.  Place  m  a  moderate  oven. 
Cover  at  first,  until  the  fruit  becomes  soft.  While  the  fruit  is  cook- 
ing, baste  once  or  twice  with  the  liquid  in  the  pan.  Add  a  little 
more  water  if  necessary  to  keep  the  pears  from  burning. 

FRIED  PINEAPPLE 

Drain  slices  of  canned  pineapple  and  brown  them  very  slowly  in 
a  heavy  skillet  in  a  mixture  of  butter  and  lard  or  other  cooking  fat. 
If  butter  alone  is  used,  the  slices  will  scorch  very  easily  and  must  be 
watched  closely. 

BAKED  BANANAS  WITH  LEMON  SAUCE 


6  ripe  bananas. 
34  cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 


2  tablespoons  lemon  juice, 
teaspoon  salt. 


Skin  the  bananas,  scrape  lightly  to  remove  stringy  portion,  and 
split  in  half  lengthwise.  Place  in  a  greased  shallow  baking  dish  and 
pour  over  them  the  liquid  mi.xture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
brown.    Serve  from  the  dish. 


SPICED  PRUNES 

1  pound  large  prunes.  cup  vinegar. 

1  quart  water.  H  teaspoon  whole  allspice. 

J4  teaspoon  salt.  3^  teaspoon  whole  cloves. 

1  cup  sugar.  3  small  pieces  stick  cinnamon. 

Select  large  prunes,  wash  well,  and  soak  overnight  in  the  water. 
Drain  the  water  from  the  prunes  and  make  a  sirup  of  it  and  the  sugar. 
Tie  the  spices  in  a  cheesecloth  bag  and  add  to  the  sirup.  Then  add 
the  prunes  and  cook  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Add  the  vinegar  and  cook 
about  10  minutes  longer  or  until  the  sirup  is  fairly  thick. 

FRUIT  PUNCH 


1  can  grated  pineapple. 
3  cups  boiling  water. 
1  cup  freshly  made,  strong  tea. 
Juice  of  6  lemons. 
Juice  of  10  oranges, 
teaspoon  salt. 


1  quart  grape,  currant,  loganberry, 
raspberry,  or  strawberry  juice. 

2  pints  charged  water  or  ginger  ale. 
2  pounds  sugar  boiled  with  1  quart 

water  for  10  minutes. 
Ice  and  ice  water. 


Combine  the  pineapple,  fruit  juices,  tea,  salt,  and  the  sirup  after 
it  has  cooled.  It  is  better  to  make  the  punch  a  few  hours  ahead  and 
let  it  stand,  closely  covered,  on  ice  to  chill  and  ripen.  At  serving 
time,  add  the  charged  water,  or  ginger  ale,  and  cracked  ice  and  ice 
water  to  dilute  to  the  strength  desired.  Garnish  with  thin  slices  of 
fruit  and  mint  leaves. 


VEGETABLE  DISHES 


SCALLOPED  ASPARAGUS  AND  SPAGHETTI 


cups  spaghetti,  broken  in  small 
pieces. 

2  cups  asparagus,  cut  in  inch  pieces. 
1  cup  rich  milk  or  cream. 
1  cup  asparagus  water. 


2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 
H  teaspoon  salt. 

H  cup  fine  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

3  or  4  drops  tabasco. 


Cook  the  spaghetti  thoroughly  in  salted  boiling  water;  drain. 
Cook  the  asparagus  for  10  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Prepare  a 
sauce  of  the  flour,  butter,  milk,  and  asparagus  water,  and  add  the  ta- 
basco and  salt.  Grease  a  casserole  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the  cooked 
spaghetti  and  then  one  of  asparagus.  Cover  with  the  cream  sauce, 
continue  until  all  ingredients  are  used.  Cover  the  top  with  the  but- 
tered bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  an  oven  until  the  crumbs  are  golden 
brown. 

ASPARAGUS  CUSTARD 


1  pint  milk. 

2  cups  raw  asparagus,  cut  in  small 
pieces. 

3  egars. 


\^  teaspoon  salt. 
3  tablespoons  butter. 
Few  drops  tabasco. 


Cook  the  asparagus  in  a  small  amoimt  of  water  until  almost  tender. 
Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  the  milk  and  seasoning,  and  then  the 
cooked  asparagus  and  the  water  in  which  cooked  if  not  more  than  3^ 
cup.  Grease  a  casserole,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  pan 
surrounded  by  water,  in  a  moderate  oven,  until  set  in  the  center. 
Serve  at  once. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 


2  cups  dried  beans. 

3^  pound  salt  pork. 

4  tablespoons  molasses. 

1  teaspoon  mustard,  if  desired. 


13^  teaspoons  salt  (depending  on  salti- 
ness of  pork). 
Onion,  if  desired. 


Soak  the  beans  overnight  in  cold  water  and  then  cook  them  gently 
until  they  are  soft  but  not  mushy.  Score  the  rind  of  the  salt  pork 
and  put  half  of  the  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the  bean  pot.  Add  the  par- 
boiled beans,  mix  the  molasses  and  other  seasonings  with  a  little  hot 
water,  and  pour  over  the  beans.  Add  just  enough  more  water  to 
cover.  Place  the  rest  of  the  salt  pork  on  top,  cover  the  pot,  and 
cook  the  beans  very  slowly  in  the  oven  for  6  or  7  hours.  Add  a  little 
hot  water  from  time  to  time  to  replace  that  which  cooks  away  and  is 
absorbed  by  the  beans.  Keep  the  lid  on  the  bean  pot  until  the  last 
hour  of  cooking.  Then  uncover  and  allow  the  beans  and  pork  ou 
the  top  to  brown. 

(14) 


15 


SHREDDED  STRING  BEANS  AND  FRESH  PORK 


1  quart  shredded  string  beans. 
1  pint  sliredded  cooked  pork. 


1  teaspooti  salt. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 


Melt  the  butter  in  a  heavy  iron  skillet,  and  add  the  beans  and  pork. 
Cover  and  cook  /or  20  or  25  minutes,  turning  the  beans  and  pork 
frequently.  Serve  on  buttered  toast.  The  beans  should  be  young 
and  tender  when  this  method  of  cooking  is  used. 


HARVARD  BEETS 


6  medium-sized  beets. 

Yi  cup  sugar. 

J-^  tablespoon  cornstarch. 


3^  cup  vinegar. 

2  table.spoons  butter. 


Wash  the  beets,  cook  them  in  boiling  water  until  tender,  remove  the 
skins,  and  cut  the  beets  into  thin  slices  or  cubes.  Mix  the  sugar  and 
the  cornstarch.  Add  the  vinegar,  and  let  the  sauce  boil  for  5  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Just  as  the  sauce  is  taken  from  the  fire  add 
the  butter.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  beets.  Let  them  stand  on  the 
back  of  the  stove  for  a  few  minutes  so  that  the  beets  may  absorb 
the  sweet-sour  flavor  of  the  sauce. 


FIVE-MINUTE  CABBAGE 


quarts  shredded  cabbage. 
3  cups  milk. 

1  cup  cream  or  rich  milk. 

23^2  tablespoons  butter. 


2J^  tablespoons  flour. 

Salt. 

Pepper. 


Cook  the  cabbage  for  2  minutes  in  the  3  cups  of  hot  milk.  Add 
the  Clip  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  the  blended  butter  and  flour,  and  the 
seasoning  and  cook  rapidly  for  3  or  4  minutes.  The  result  is  a 
crisp  vegetable,  delicate  in  flavor  and  color. 

BAKED  CABBAGE  AND  APPLES 


2  quarts  shredded  cabbage. 

1  quart  sliced  apples. 

2  to  4  tablespoons  butter. 


1  teaspoon  sugar. 

2  teaspoons  salt. 

1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 


Grease  a  baking  dish.  Make  a  layer  of  cabbage,  then  of  apple. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar,  salt,  and  dot  with  butter.  Repeat  until  all  the 
ingredients  are  used.  On  tiie  last  layer  place  the  buttered  crumbs. 
Cover,  and  bake  until  the  cabbage  and  apples  are  tender.  Remove 
the  top  of  the  baking  dish  so  the  crumbs  can  brown.  Serve  from 
the  dish. 

CABBAGE,  SPAGHETTI,  AND  CHEESE 


4  cups  shredded  cabbage. 

134  cups  spaghetti,  broken  in  small 

pieces. 
2  cups  milk. 


4  tablespoons  flour. 

4  tablespoons  butter. 

H  pound  American  cheese. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 


Cook  the  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender;  drain. 
Make  a  sauce  of  the  flour,  butter,  milk,  and  salt.  Shave  up  the 
cheese  and  add  it  to  the  hot  sauce.  Put  the  cabbage,  spaghetti,  and 
sauce  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  layers  and  cover  the  top  with 
butte.fd  bread  crumbs.    Cook  for  20  to  30  minutes  in  a  moderate 


oven. 


16 


MASHED  CARROTS 

8  to  10  medium-sized  carrots.  I  Cream  or  rich  milk. 

2  to  4  tablespoons  butter.  |      teaspoon  salt. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  in  a 
small  amount  of  boiling  salted  water.  When  the  carrots  are  tender, 
press  them  through  a  sieve  or  a  potato  ricer.  Add  enough  cream  or 
top  milk  to  make  a  creamy  consistency.  Add  the  butter,  and  3^ 
teaspoon  of  sugar,  if  desired.    Reheat  and  serve  hot. 


CARROTS  IN  PARSLEY  BUTTER 


8  or  10  medium-sized  carrots. 
M  cup  butter. 
}/2  teaspoon  salt. 


1  or  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 


Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots  and  cut  them  in  slices  or  dice.  Cook 
in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  or  for  about 
10  or  15  minutes.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  the 
parsley.    Pour  over  the  carrots  and  serve  at  once. 


FRIED  CARROTS  AND  APPLES 


6  medium-sized  carrots. 

6  tart  apples. 

2  tablespoons  fat. 


1  tablespoon  sugar. 
}/i  teaspoon  salt. 


Scrape  the  carrots  and  cut  them  lengthwise  into  thin  slices.  Pare 
the  apples  or  leave  the  peelings  on,  as  preferred,  core,  and  cut  into 
slices  about  a  fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Place  a  smgle  layer  of  the 
apples  and  the  carrots  in  a  skillet  with  the  fat,  cover  tightly,  and 
cook  till  well  browned,  turn,  and  brown  the  other  side.  Just  before 
the  cooking  is  finished,  sprinkle  with  the  salt  and  sugar.  Serve  on 
a  hot  platter,  first  a  layer  of  carrots,  then  a  layer  of  apples,  so  the 
two  can  be  lifted  together. 

CELERY  FRITTERS 


2  cups  celery,  finely  cut.  1  egg. 

1^  cups  sifted  soft  wheat  flour.  ^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Sift  together  the  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder,  add  the  beaten 
egg  and  milk,  then  the  celery.  Fry  by  spoonfuls  in  a  well-greased 
skillet.    Drain  on  absorbent  paper,  and  serve  hot. 


CREAMED  CELERY 

Clean  the  celery,  and  cut  into  pieces  about  ^  inch  long.  Cook  in  a 
small  quantity  of  boiling  salted  water  for  15  to  20  minutes,'  or  until 
tender.  Drain  and  combine  with  white  sauce  made  in  the  propor- 
tion of  2  tablespoons  flour  and  2  tablespoons  butter  to  1  cup  milk.  ♦ 
Season  and  serve  at  once.  A  few  of  the  tender  leaves  of  the  celery 
may  be  minced  and  scattered  over  the  top  to  make  the  dish  look 
attractive.  The  tougher  stalks  of  celery  from  several  bunches  may 
be  used  in  this  way  and  the  hearts  served  raw. 


17 


BAKED  CUCUMBERS 


3  good-sized  cucumbers. 
^  cup  fine  bread  crumbs. 
3  tablespoons  butter, 
teaspoon  salt. 


tablespoons  chopped  onion. 
\]/2  teaspoons  finely  chopped  parsley. 
3  teaspoons  chopped  celery. 
1  cup  tomatoes  cut  in  pieces. 


Wash  cucumbers  and  cut  in  half  lengthwise.  Scoop  out  as  much 
as  possible  of  the  pulp  without  breaking  the  skin.  Brown  the  onion 
in  the  fat,  add  other  ingredients  mixed  with  the  cucumber  pulp.  Stir 
constantly,  and  cook  five  minutes,  or  until  dry.  Place  the  filling  in 
the  cucumber  shells  and  bake  until  the  shells  are  soft  and  the  mixture 
is  brown  on  top. 


STUFFED  EGGPLANT 


1  medium-sized  eggplant. 
1  pint  finely  cut  cabbage. 
}/2  teaspoon  salt. 


1  tablespoon  butt«r. 

cup  chopped  peanuts. 
1  cup  fine  bread  crumbs. 


Cut  eggplant  in  half.  Remove  as  much  of  the  white  portion  as 
possible  without  breaking  the  shell.  Cut  in  small  pieces.  Cook  the 
cabbage  and  eggplant  in  a  small  amount  of  water  for  10  minutes. 
Drain  and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Fill  the  eggplant  shells  with 
the  stuffing;  place  buttered  crumbs  on  top.  Pour  around  the  stuffed 
eggplant  a  little  of  the  water  in  which  the  vegetables  were  cooked. 
Bake  half  an  hour,  or  until  golden  brown. 

CORN  PUDDING 


2  cups  fresh  or  canned  corn,  or  dried 

corn  soaked  and  cooked. 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 


\]4,  teaspoons  salt. 

3  eggs. 

2  cups  milk. 


Beat  the  eggs  and  mix  all  the  ingredients.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish  and  place  in  the  oven  in  a  pan  containing  boiling  water. 
Bake  the  corn  custard  slowly  until  it  is  entirely  set  to  the  center  in 
a  moderate  oven  (350°  F).  Corn,  canned  Maine  style — that  is,  with 
the  grain  scored  and  the  pulp  scraped  out — is  especially  good  for  use 
in  this  kind  of  a  dish. 

CORN  FRITTERS 


1  cup  liquid,  either  juice  from  canned  1  tablespoon  melted  fat. 

corn  or  milk,  or  the  two  mixed.  1  egg. 

1  cup  drained  canned  corn.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Mix  the  juice  from  the 
canned  corn  or  milk,  or  whatever  liquid  is  used,  the  egg  after  it  has 
been  beaten  slightly,  and  the  canned  corn.  Stir  this  liquid  mixture 
gradually  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  melted  fat.  If  the  corn 
is  very  moist,  even  after  the  liquid  has  been  drained  from  it,  more 
flour  may  be  needed.  Dried  corn  which  has  been  soaked  and  cooked 
until  tender  may  also  be  used. 

Fry  the  corn  fritters  in  deep  fat  or,  if  preferred,  in  a  skillet  in 
shallow  fat.  In  either  case  drop  the  mixture  by  spoonfuls  into  the 
fat  and  fry  rather  slowly.  The  fritters  need  time  to  cook  through  to 
the  center  before  the  outside  becomes  too  brown.  Drain  the  fritters 
on  absorbent  paper  and  serve  hot. 

ei3G6°— 27  3 


18 


CORN  RABBIT 

2  cups  canned  corn,  crushed  grains.  1  tablespoon  green  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1  or  2  teaspoons  minced  onion. 

yi  teaspoon  salt.  Few  drops  tabasco  sauce. 

1  cup  grated  cheese.  Toast  or  crackers. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  pepper  cut  finely  and  the  onion.  Cook 
slowly  for  3  minutes,  add  the  corn  and  simmer  for  10  minutes;  remove 
from  the  fire  and  beat  in  the  cheese  until  melted.  Pour  over  the 
toast  or  crackers  and  serve  at  once.  Tomato  pulp  or  catsup  may  be 
added  if  liked. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

1  pint  milk.  1  onion,  or  more  if  desired. 

1  pint  boiling  water.  1  quart  potatoes,  diced. 

2  cups  canned  corn.  Salt. 

2  tablespoons  salt  pork,  diced.  Pepper. 

Cut  the  pork  into  small  pieces  and  chop  the  onion.  Boil  the  diced 
potatoes  in  the  pint  of  boiling  water  for  15  minutes.  Fry  the  salt 
pork  and  onion  for  2  minutes  and  add  these  and  the  corn  to  the  pota- 
toes. Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done.  Add  the  milk  and  season 
to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Bring  the  mixture  to  the  boiling 
point.  Serve  very  hot  in  soup  dishes  and  place  2  or  3  crackers  in 
the  dish  before  pouring  in  the  hot  chowder. 

WILTED  DANDELION  GREENS 

2  quarts  dandelion  greens.  |  }/i  cup  mild  vinegar. 

4  tablespoons  bacon  fat.  j  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Wash  the  greens  thoroughly.  Cut  finely  with  scissors.  Place  the 
greens  in  a  skillet  and  add  the  bacon  fat,  vinegar,  and  salt.  Cover 
until  the  greens  are  wilted  and  then  serve  at  once. 

PANNED  KALE 

Strip  the  kale  from  the  midribs  and  discard  them  and  the  stringy 
portions.  Wash  the  kale  thoroughly  in  several  waters  and  cut  it 
into  small  pieces.  For  each  quart  of  kale  allow  2  tablespoons  butter 
or  other  fat.  Melt  the  fat  in  a  skillet,  add  the  kale,  and  cover  the 
skillet  to  keep  in  the  steam  which  forms  when  the  juices  of  the  kale 
are  drawn  out  by  heat.  The  kale  will  be  done  in  from  10  to  20 
minutes.  Sift  a  teaspoon  of  flour  over  the  greens,  mix  well,  pour  in 
Y2  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  stir  until  thickened.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

ONIONS  FRIED  IN  DEEP  FAT 

Remove  the  outer  skin  of  the  onions  and  slice  very  thin.  Dip  the 
slices  into  a  thin  batter  made  of  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  and  M 
teaspoon  salt,  and  drain  well. 

Use  lard  or  other  cooking  fat  for  frying.  Have  a  frying  kettle 
about  half  full  of  hot  fat.  Be  careful  that  the  fat  is  not  so  hot  that 
it  smokes.  Drop  a  small  piece  of  bread  into  the  fat.  If  it  browns 
in  about  1  minute,  the  fat  is  just  right  for  the  onions.  Put  the  slices 
of  onion  in  a  wire  basket  or  sieve,  so  they  can  be  easily  I'emoved  from 
!  the  fat.    Lower  the  sieve  or  basket  into  the  hot  fat  and  let  the 


19 


onions  fry  until  they  are  golden  brown.  Drain  the  onions  on  absorb- 
ent paper.  Onions  fixed  this  way  are  very  good  with  stealv.  They 
will  keep  crisp  for  some  days. 

GLAZED  ONIONS 

10  medium-sized  onions.  I  2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 

cup  sugar.  I 

Peel  the  onions  and  cook  whole  until  fairly  tender  in  salted  boiling 
water,  from  20  to  .30  minutes.  Mix  the  sugar  and  butter  together 
and  spread  over  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  or  pan.  Drain 
the  onions  and  place  them  in  the  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  brown,  increasing  the  heat  toward  the  last.  Water  cooks  out 
of  the  onions,  and  the  browning  process  is  rather  slow.  When 
finished,  the  onions  should  have  a  rich  brown  glaze. 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

Select  rather  large  onions — the  Spanish  variety  if  they  can  be 
obtained,  or  large  Bermudas.  Allow  from  a  half  to  a  whole  onion 
for  each  person  to  be  served.  Cut  the  onions  in  half.  Parboil 
gently  until  fairly  tender,  taking  care  not  to  get  them  out  of  shape. 
Lift  them  out  of  the  water  with  a  skimmer.  Arrange  in  a  buttered 
pan  or  baking  dish.  Scoop  out  the  onion  centers  and  chop  fine. 
Mix  with  about  an  equal  quantity  of  buttered  crumbs  and  a  few 
chopped  nut  meats  or  a  little  minced  cooked  bacon  or  ham.  Season 
the  stuffing  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  the  onions.  Put  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  dish  a  few  tablespoons  of  the  water  in  which  the  onions 
were  boiled,  to  keep  them  from  drying  out  too  much.  Bake  until 
the  stuffing  is  browned. 

SCALLOPED  ONIONS  AND  PEANUTS 


4  to  6  medium-sized  onions. 
^  to  ^  cup  peanuts,  ground. 


1  cup  thin  cream  sauce,  made  with  1 
tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, and  1  cup  milk. 


Cook  the  skinned  onions  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender. 
Drain  and  slice  with  a  sharp  knife.  Place  the  onions  in  layers  in  a 
greased  baking  dish,  cover  each  layer  with  the  cream  sauce  and  the 
peanuts,  and  continue  until  all  the  ingredients  are  used.  Cover  the 
top  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  golden 
brown.    Serve  from  the  baking  dish. 

BAKED  ONIONS  IN  TOMATO  SAUCE 

6  medium-sized  onions. 

1  quart  canned  tomatoes. 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  if  desired. 

1  bay  leaf. 

2  teaspoons  salt. 


}/i  teaspoon  celery  seed. 
2  cloves. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 
2  tablespoons  butter. 
Dash  of  pepper. 


Cook  the  tomatoes  with  the  seasonings  for  10  minutes.  Blend 
flour  and  melted  butter,  add  to  the  tomatoes,  and  mix  well.  Cut  the 
onions  in  half  and  put  them  in  a  large  baking  dish.  Strain  the 
tomato  sauce  over  them.  Add  more  salt  if  needed.  Cover  and 
cook  until  the  onions  are  tender,  about  1  hour.  Serve  from  the  dish 
in  which  cooked. 


20 


SCALLOPED  PARSNIPS 

6  or  7  medium-sized  parsnips.  J-^  cup  parsnip  water. 

3  tablespoons  butter.  cup  rich  milk  or  cream. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  Buttered  bread  crumbs. 

Scrub  parsnips  clean.  Cook  until  tender  in  lightly  salted  water— 
20  to  30  minutes  will  be  enough  for  medium-sized  ones.  Drain. 
Scrape  off  the  outer  skin.  Split  the  parsnips  lengthwise.  Pull  out  the 
woody  cores.  Place  the  parsnips  in  a  shallow  baking  dish.  Cover 
them  with  a  white  sauce  made  with  the  butter,  flour,  milk,  and  parsnip 
water.  Cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  which  have  been  mixed  with 
melted  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  parsnips  are 
thoroughly  heated  and  the  buttered  crumbs  are  golden  brown. 

BROWNED  PARSNIPS 

Scrub  parsnips  clean,  drop  into  boiling,  lightly  salted  water,  and 
cook  for  from  15  to  30  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Drain,  scrape  off 
the  skin,  split  lengthwise,  and  pull  out  the  stringy  cores.  Dip  the 
pieces  in  flour  and  fry  in  fat  until  golden  brown.  Or  mash  the  pars- 
nips after  the  cores  have  been  removed,  season,  and  form  into  small 
cakes  before  frying. 


STUFFED  PEPPERS 

6  green  peppers.  1  teaspoon  onion  juice. 

2  cups  dry  crumbs.  teaspoon  salt,  or  to  taste. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  2  tablespoons  chili  sauce  or 

2  cups  ground  cooked  meat.  ketchup. 

Cut  the  stem  ends  of  the  peppers  and  remove  the  seeds.  If  a  more 
delicate  flavor  of  the  pepper  is  preferred,  boil  for  2  minutes  and  drain. 
Stuff  the  peppers  with  a  mixture  made  from  the  other  ingredients  and 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  until  the  pepper  is  tender  and 
the  crumbs  are  brown. 


FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

Peel  and  cut  potatoes  lengthwise  into  strips  about  3^  inch  thick. 
Rinse  the  strips  in  cold  running  water,  and  soak  for  2  or  3  hours  in 
cold  water  to  remove  as  much  starch  as  possible.  Remove  from  the 
water,  and  pat  with  a  clean  dry  cloth  to  absorb  the  surface  moisture. 
Heat  a  kettle  of  deep  fat  hot  enough  to  brown  a  small  piece  of  bread 
in  60  seconds.  Fry  about  a  cupful  of  potatoes  at  a  time.  Remove 
them  from  the  fat  when  golden  brown,  drain  on  clean  absorbent 
paper,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.    Serve  at  once  while  hot  and  crisp. 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN 

4  medium-sized  potatoes.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

IJ^  cups  milk.  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  3^  pound  cheese,  grated. 

Dice  the  potatoes  and  cook  them  in  a  small  quantity  of  salted 
water.  Drain.  Prepare  a  white  sauce  with  the  milk,  flour,  butter, 
and  salt.  Add  the  cheese,  and  stir  until  melted.  In  a  shallow  greased 
baking  dish  place  a  layer  of  potatoes,  a  layer  of  the  cheese  sauce,  and 
a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  well  buttered.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  golden  brown.    Serve  from  the  baking  dish. 


21 


BAKED  POTATOES  IN  THE  HALF  SHELL 

Select  good-sized  potatoes  of  uniform  size  and  shape.  As  soon 
as  the  potatoes  are  baked,  cut  them  in  half  lengthwise.  Scrape 
out  the  inside,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  skin.  Jilash  the  potato, 
season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  cream  or  rich  milk,  and  beat 
until  it  is  light.  Place  this  mixture  in  the  skins,  brush  the  tops 
with  butter,  and  put  the  potatoes  in  the  oven  for  a  final  browning. 
For  variety,  sprinlde  grated  cheese  over  the  potatoes  before  they 
are  browned  or  add  a  very  little  chopped  green  pepper  to  the  potato 
mixture. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES 


6  medium-sized  potatoes. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley. 


4  to  6  tablespoons  butter. 
2  tablespoons  flour. 


Wash  the  potatoes  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  half  done. 
Skin  the  potatoes  and  cut  in  cubes.  Grease  a  baking  dish  or  pan, 
place  in  it  a  layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  some  of  the  flour  and 
dot  with  the  butter.  Continue  until  all  the  potatoes  are  used. 
Pour  in  sufficient  milk  to  almost  cover,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until  the  potatoes  are  brown  on  top  and  soft  throughout.  If  they 
become  dry  add  more  milk.  If  they  cook  too  rapidly  the  milk  will 
boil  over,  and  will  not  only  be  difficult  to  clean  from  the  oven  but 
will  also  make  a  disagreeable  odor  all  through  the  house.  Serve 
the  potatoes  from  the  baking  dish,  and  just  before  it  is  sent  to  the 
table  sprinkle  the  chopped  parsley  over  the  top. 

SWEET  POTATOES  WITH  APPLES 

3  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes.  I  }^  cup  sugar. 

4  medium-sized  apples.  |  3  tablespoons  butter. 

Wash  the  sweet  potatoes  and  cook  them  in  their  skins  in  boiling 
water.  Cool  and  skin.  Cut  the  potatoes  and  apples  into  slices. 
Place  in  alternate  layers  in  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  sugar 
over  each  layer.  Add  a  little  water  and  bake  until  apples  and  sweet 
potatoes  are  soft  and  brown  on  top. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES 


6  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes. 
1  cup  corn  sirup. 
1/^  cup  brown  sugar. 


^  teaspoon  salt. 

3  tablespoons  butter. 


Partially  cook  the  unpeeled  sweet  potatoes  in  boiling  water.  Cool 
and  skin.  Cut  the  potatoes  in  halves  lengthwise,  or  in  three  pieces 
if  the  potatoes  are  large  enough.  Put  in  a  greased  baking  dish 
large  enough  for  just  one  layer,  not  packing  too  closely.  Make  a 
sirup  by  boiling  the  corn  sirup,  brown  sugar,  salt,  and  butter  until 
fairly  thick.  Pour  the  sirup  over  the  potatoes  and  place  them  in 
the  oven  to  brown.  Turn  them  very  carefully.  The  potatoes  may 
be  served  in  the  baking  dish. 

BAKED  TOMATOES 

Cut  tomatoes  in  half.  Place  in  a  shallow  baking  dish.  Cover 
the  tomatoes  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  a  little  water  to  keep  tomatoes  from  sticking  to  the 
dish.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


22 


SPANISH  RICE 

3^  medium-sized  oniona.  3  cups  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes, 

cup  drippings  or  butter.  3  green  peppers  cut  into  strips, 

cup  uncooked  rice.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

Slice  the  onions  and  cook  until  tender  and  slightly  brown  in  the 
melted  fat.  Remove  them  from  the  fat,  add  the  rice,  which  has  been 
carefully  washed  and  dried,  and  brown  it.  Then  add  the  cooked 
onions,  the  tomatoes,  the  green  peppers,  and  the  salt.  Turn  the 
mixtui'e  into  a  baking  dish  and  bake  it  until  the  rice  and  the  peppers 
are  tender. 

BOILED  RICE 


Wash  the  rice  thoroughly  to  remove  all  loose  starch.  A  good 
rule  is  to  wash  the  rice  in  several  waters  or  in  a  stream  from  the 
faucet,  until  the  water  runs  clear.  Have  ready  a  large  kettle  of 
boiling  water  lightly  salted.  Four  or  five  quarts  of  water  to  1  cup 
of  rice  is  the  best  proportion  for  flalvy  boiled  rice.  Drop  the  rice  in 
slowly.  Allow  it  to  boil  rapidly  for  20  to  25  minutes,  or  until  the 
grains  are  soft  to  the  center  when  pressed  between  the  thumb  and 
forefinger.  If  the  rice  tends  to  stick,  lift  it  from  time  to  time  with 
a  fork,  but  do  not  stir  the  rice.  Stirring  breaks  the  gi'ains  and  makes 
the  cooked  rice  pasty.  As  soon  as  the  grains  are  soft  to  the  center 
take  the  rice  off  the  stove  and  drain  in  a  colander.  Cover  the 
colander  with  a  cloth  and  place  it  in  the  oven;  or,  if  the  oven  is  not 
hot,  set  the  colander  over  a  saucepan  of  hot  water  on  the  back  of 
the  stove  and  cover  with  a  cloth.  This  gives  the  rice  grains  a  chance 
to  dry  off  and  swell  to  their  utmost.  Dot  with  butter,  add  a  dash 
of  paprika,  and  serve  hot. 


TURNIP  OR  CARROT  CUSTARD 

1  cup  gi'ated  raw  turnip  or  mashed     H  teaspoon  salt. 

cooked  turnip.  2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

2  eggs.  Few  drops  tabasco. 
1  pint  milk. 

Beat  the  eggs  lightly.  Add  the  salt,  the  turnip,  the  milk,  and  the 
tabasco.  Stir  in  the  melted  butter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  in 
a  pan  surrounded  by  water,  until  the  custard  is  set  in  the  center. 
Serve  at  once.    Carrots  may  be  used  in  the  same  way  as  turnips. 


VEGETABLE  CURRY 

}/2  cup  rice.  4  tablespoons  butter. 

1  cup  diced  onion.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  diced  carrots.  34  teaspoon  curry. 

1  cup  fresh  or  canned  peas.  2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce. 

1  cup  diced  cele^3^ 

Wash  the  rice  and  cook  in  2  quarts  of  boiling  salted  water.  Drain, 
and  let  stand  over  steam  until  the  grains  swell  and  become  separate. 
Cook  the  vegetables  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  and  just  before 
removing  from  the  stove  add  the  canned  peas,  or  if  fresh  peas  are 
available,  cook  them  with  the  other  vegetables.  Use  the  liquid  from 
the  vegetables  and  add  the  butter,  salt,  curry,  and  sauce.  Make  a 
ring  of  the  cooked  rice,  placing  the  vegetables  in  the  center,  and 
pour  over  them  the  liquid  mixture.    Serve  very  hot. 


EGG  AND  CHEESE  DISHES 


OMELET 

To  make  a  fluffy  omelet,  separate  the  yolks  and  whites  carefully 
and  beat  them  well.  To  the  yolks  add  as  many  tablespoons  of  milk 
or  water  as  there  are  eggs,  enough  salt  for  seasoning,  and  mix  well. 
Then  fold  in  the  fluffy  whites  until  they  are  well  blended,  being  care- 
ful not  to  stir  roughly  and  so  release  the  air  which  has  been  beaten 
into  the  whites. 

Cook  the  omelet  in  a  heavy  pan,  such  as  an  iron  skillet,  of  such  a 
size  that  the  mixture  will  be  about  1  inch  deep.  Put  the  pan  on  to 
heat  while  the  eggs  are  being  beaten.  Melt  in  it  enough  butter  to 
coat  the  bottom,  but  do  not  allow  the  butter  to  brown.  If  the  butter 
gets  too  hot,  it  may  cause  the  omelet  to  burn  and  the  flavor  will  be 
ruined.  The  secret  of  a  perfect  omelet  is  to  cook  it  at  a  moderate 
temperature.  Pour  the  egg  mi.xture  into  the  skillet  and  cook  at  a 
low,  even  heat.  The  air  then  has  a  chance  to  expand  and  raise  the 
omelet  before  the  proteins  of  the  egg  and  milk  set.  Managed  this 
way,  they  set  gradually  without  becoming  too  tough,  and  the  omelet 
cooks  through  thoroughly.  If  a  small  size  gas  or  oil  burner  is  used 
move  the  pan  about  so  that  the  omelet  will  cook  around  the  edge  at 
the  same  rate  that  it  does  in  the  center.  Use  a  spatula  or  broad, 
thin,  limber  knife  to  lift  the  edges  of  the  omelet  gently,  in  order  to 
find  out  when  it  has  browned  on  the  bottom. 

Then  put  it  under  a  low  flame  in  the  broiling  oven  or  on  the  shelf 
of  a  hot  baking  oven  for  a  few  minutes  until  the  top  sets.  Or, 
if  preferred,  cover  the  pan  during  the  whole  cooking  period  and 
so  cook  the  top  of  the  omelet  with  steam.  Then  crease  it  through 
the  center,  fold  it  over  with  a  spatula  or  knife,  and  turn  it  onto  a  hot 
platter,  without  attempting  to  lift  it  out  of  the  pan. 

Flat  omelets  as  the  French  make  them  are  a  little  easier  and 
quicker  to  handle  than  fluft'y  omelets,  because  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  eggs  are  beaten  together,  not  separately.  Milk  or  water  is  added 
in  the  same  proportion,  1  tablespoon  to  each  egg.  Use  a  large  heavy 
pan,  with  melted  butter,  again  being  careful  not  to  have  it  too  hot, 
and  cook  the  mixture  slowly  and  evenly  on  both  top  and  bottom. 
When  it  is  golden  brown,  roll  it  in  the  pan,  and  turn  it  out  onto  a 
hot  platter. 

OMELET  VARIATIONS 

Any  kind  of  a  cooked  vegetable,  such  as  chopped  onion,  green 
pepper,  celery  or  parsley  delicately  fried  in  butter,  cooked  asparagus 
or  grated  cheese,  chopped  ham  or  bacon,  may  be  spread  over  half 
of  the  omelet  just  before  it  is  folded  and  turned  onto  the  platter. 
The  water  in  which  vegetables  have  been  cooked  may  also  be  used 
as  the  liquid  in  making  omelets  and  sometimes  gives  an  unusually 
appetizing  flavor.  Jelly  is  very  good  folded  into  an  omelet.  Tomato 
sauce,  brown  sauce  with  or  without  vegetables,  or  Spanish  sauce, 
poured  over  the  omelet  after  it  is  turned  onto  the  platter,  are  still 
other  variations. 

(23) 


24 


BAKED  OMELET 

1  quart  milk.  j      teaspoon  salt. 

6  eggs.  I  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

Warm  the  milk  and  pour  it  into  the  lightly  beaten  eggs.    Season  . 
with  salt  and  butter  and  pour  this  mixture  into  a  greased  baking 
dish.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  surrounded  by  a  pan  of  water, 
until  set  in  the  center.    Serve  from  the  dish,  adding  more  seasoning 
as  desired. 

EGGS  BENEDICT 


Eggs.  I  Thin  sliced  ham  or  bacon. 

Toast.  I  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Toast  slices  of  bread,  or  split  and  toast  English  muffins.  Place  on 
each  piece  of  toast  a  thin  slice  of  cooked  ham  or  crisp  cooked  bacon. 
On  top  of  this  place  a  poached  egg,  cover  with  hot  Hollandaise  sauce, 
and  serve  at  once.  The  ham  or  bacon  may,  of  course,  be  omitted 
and  a  drop  or  two  of  Worcestershire  sauce  sprinkled  on  each  piece 
of  toast  to  give  flavor. 

The  recipe  for  Hollandaise  sauce  is  included  under  "Sauces." 

BAKED  EGGS  AND  CHEESE 


Break  the  desired  number  of  eggs  into  a  shallow  greased  earthen- 
ware or  glass  baking  dish,  add  a  few  tablespoons  of  cream,  and  salt 
enough  to  season,  and  sprinkle  over  the  top  grated  cheese  mixed 
with  fine,  dry  bread  crumbs.  Set  this  dish  in  a  pan  containing  hot 
water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set  and  the 
crumbs  are  brown.    Just  before  serving  add  a  few  dashes  of  paprika." 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE 


1  pint  milk. 

1^  cups  bread  crumbs. 
3  or  4  eggs. 


^  pound  American  cheese. 
%  teaspoon  salt. 


Put  the  bread  crumbs  and  milk  together  in  the  double  boiler,  and 
heat  to  the  scalding  point.  Grate  the  cheese,  or  shave  it  into  thin, 
small  pieces  and  stir  it  into  the  hot  milk  and  bread  crumbs,  but  do 
not  let  it  cook.  Add  the  salt.  Take  this  mixture  from  the  heat  and 
while  it  is  cooling,  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  separately, 
and  butter  a  baking  dish.  The  souffle  will  cook  best  in  a  good- 
sized  earthenware  or  glass  baking  dish  3  or  more  inches  deep.  After 
the  bread,  milk,  and  cheese  mixture  has  cooled,  stir  in  the  beaten 
egg  yolks  and  fold  in  the  whites.  The  air  beaten  into  the  egg  whites 
makes  the  souffle  fluffy;  therefore  mix  the  egg  whites  in  with  a  careful 
folding  motion.  Pour  the  mixture  at  once  into  the  buttered  baking 
dish  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  for  45  to  50  minutes.  Long, 
slow  cooking  is  one  of  the  secrets  of  making  a  perfect  souffle.  The 
moderate  heat  makes  the  air  bubbles  in  the  egg  whites  expand  until 
the  mixture  is  light  and  cooks  it  thoroughly  so  that  even  when  a 
spoon  is  put  into  it  for  serving  it  does  not  collapse  like  a  pricked 
balloon.  That  is  what  happens  to  a  souffle,  omelet,  or  other  similar 
egg  dish  that  has  been  cooked  too  rapidly  at  too  high  a  temperature. 
Souffles  are  not  hard  to  make  if  one  remembers  this  important  point. 


25 


BAKED  CHEESE  AND  MACARONI 

2  cups  inacaroni  or  spaghetti  broken    2  cups  milk. 

in  small  pieces.  ?4  pound  American  cheese. 

4  tablespoons  flour.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

4  tablespoons  butter. 

Cook  the  macaroni  or  spaghetti  in  2  quarts  of«boiling  salted  water 
until  tender.  Drain  in  a  strainer  and  pour  cold  water  over  it  to 
prevent  the  pieces  from  sticking  together.  Make  a  sauce  with  the 
flour,  butter,  milk,  and  salt.  Grate  or  cut  the  cheese  into  the  sauce, 
reserving  a  little  to  grate  over  the  top  of  the  dish. 

Place  tb.e  macaroni  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers 
with  the  cheese  sauce.  Scatter  the  extra  grated  cheese  over  the  top 
with  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake  until  the  sauce  and  macaroni 
are  hot  through  and  the  crumbs  are  brovvii. 

CHEESE  TOAST 


1  pound  .American  cheese. 

1  cup  rich  milk  or  cream. 

2  eggs. 

4  drops  tabasco,  or  a  few  grains 
of  ca\-enne  pepper. 


2  tablespoons  fiour  mixed  with  2 

tablespoons  water. 
A  little  onion  juice,  if  desired. 
H  teaspoon  salt. 
l}/2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


Shave  the  cheese  into  thin  small  pieces.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  thicken  with  the  flour  which  has  been  mixed  with  the 
water.  Cook  for  5  minutes.  Add  the  beaten  eggs,  the  cheese,  the 
pepper,  and  the  salt.  Cook  slowly  until  the  cheese  has  melted  and 
the  mixture  is  thick  and  creamy.  Allow  it  to  cool,  then  add  the 
baking  powder.  The  cheese  mixture  is  then  ready  to  spread  on  the 
toast. 

Toast  just  one  side  of  the  bread.  Spread  the  cheese  mixture 
thickly  on  the  untoasted  side  to  the  very  edge.  If  the  cheese  mix- 
ture does  not  come  to  the"  edges  of  the  bread,  they  become  brown  and 
hard.  Brown  the  cheese  delicately,  under  a  low  gas  flame  or  in  the 
oven.  The  slow  heat  allows  the  cheese  mixture  to  heat  through 
before  it  browns,  gives  it  a  chance  to  become  light,  and  keeps  the 
cheese  tender  and  soft.  Too  great  heat  makes  the  cheese  tough  and 
stringy.  If  desired,  place  a  strip  of  crisp  bacon  across  each  slice  of 
cheese  toast.  Serve  it  hot  from  the  oven.  This  recipe  makes 
enough  for  12  to  14  slices  of  bread.  The  cheese  mixture  may  be 
prepared — except  for  the  baking  powder — the  day  before  it  is  to 
be  used.  Since  the  mixture  stifl'ens  on  standing,  heat  until  soft  in  a 
double  boiler,  let  it  cool,  and  add  the  baking  powder.  Then  spread 
the  cheese  on  the  toast. 

FROZEN  CREAM  CHEESE  WITH  FRUIT 

2  Neufchatel  or  cream  cheeses.  3^  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  double  cream.  cup  chopped  canned  pineapple, 

}4:  cup  milk.  preserved  cherries,  dates,  figs,  or 

1/4  cups  powdered  sugar.  raisins. 

}^  teaspoon  salt. 

Break  up  the  cheeses  and  mix  with  the  milk.  Add  the  sugar, 
salt, chopped  fruit,  and  vanilla,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Whip  the  cream 
until  it  is  stiff  and  fold  in  the  cheese  mixture.  Pour  into  a  mold, 
pack  in  crushed  ice  and  salt,  and  let  stand  ior  3  or  4  hours  to  freeze. 


61366°— 27  4 


26 


Pound  baking-powder  tins  lined  v/ith  tough  white  paper  make 
suitable  molds.  Serve  the  frozen  cheese  in  slices  with  or  without 
a  garnish  of  the  chopped  fruit;  or,  if  preferred,  leave  the  chopped 
fruit  out  of  the  mixture  and  serve  it  as  a  garnish  on  top.  A  whole 
preserved  fig  on  a  round  of  the  frozen  cheese  is  a  particularly  attrac- 
tive combination. 

This  same  mixture,  Imfrozen,  is  also  an  excellent  filling  for  charlotte 
russe  made  with  lady  fingers  or  sponge  cake. 


MEATS 


POT  ROAST  OF  BEEF 


Wipe  the  meat,  dredore  with  flour  and  salt.  Brown  in  a  little  hot 
fat  ill  an  iron  kettle.  If  desired,  add  a  little  onion  to  the  fat  in  which 
the  meat  is  browned.  When  the  entire  surface  of  the  meat  is  browned, 
add  hot  water,  cover  the  kettle  tightly,  and  cook  at  a  low  tempera- 
ture until  the  meat  is  tender.  Turn  the  pot  roast  several  times 
while  it  is  cooking.  Do  not  let  it  cook  dry,  but  add  only  enough 
water  to  keep  from  burning. 


SWISS  STEAK 


4  pounds  round  or  rump  steak  about     \}/2  teaspoons  salt. 

.3  inches  thick.  cups  of  tomato  juice  and  pulp, 

3  tahlesijoons  fat.  or  hot  water, 

cup  flour. 

Sift  the  flour  and  salt  together,  and  beat  them  into  the  steak  with 
a  meat  pounder  or  hammer.  Melt  the  fat  in  a  large  heavy  iron  skillet 
and  sear  the  meat  well  on  both  sides  in  the  hot  fat.  Pour  the  tomato 
juice  and  pulp  or  the  water  over  the  meat,  cover  tightly,  and  let 
cook  slowly  for  13^  hours,  or  until  the  meat  is  so  tender  that  it  can 
be  cut  with  a  fork.  Add  more  liquid  from  time  to  tunc  if  needed  to 
keep  the  meat  covered.  There  should  be  plenty  of  rich  gravy  to 
serve  over  the  meat.  Onions  may  be  added  if  desired,  and  should 
be  browned  and  cooked  with  the  meat. 


MOCK  DUCK 


Select  a  flank  steak  weighing  2  to  3  pounds.  Make  a  stufRng  of 
the  following  ingredients: 

cups  stale  bread  crumbs.  H  cup  clioppcd  celery. 

1  teasjjoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  l)utter  or  }^  cup  finely 

teaspoon  pepper.  chopped  salt  pork. 

1  onion,  minced. 

Brown  the  celery  and  the  onion  lightly  in  the  fat.  Then  mix  the 
ingredients  lightly,  combining  them  with  a  fork.  Spread  the  stuffing 
over  the  steak.  Roll  the  steak  crosswise,  and  tie  it  in  two  or  three 
places  with  clean  string.  By  rolling  it  crosswise  the  meat  v/ill  be 
carved  across  the  grain  and  the  slices  will  be  more  tender.  Roll 
the  outside  of  the  mock  duck  in  flour,  then  sear  the  surface  in 
a  small  quantity  of  fat  in  a  baking  pan.  Add  more  flour  if  neces- 
sary, so  there  will  be  enough  for  brown  gravy.  When  the  meat  is 
thoroughly  seared  on  all  sides,  add  a  cup  of  water,  cover  closely, 
and  cook  until  tender.  This  takes  about  1 3^  hours.  When  the  meat 
is  done,  mix  2  tablespoons  of  fat  with  an  equal  amount  of  flour,  add 
the  liquor  from  the  pan,  and  enough  water  to  make  as  much  gravy 
as  needed.  If  the  steak  had  fat  on  it,  there  may  be  enough  fat  and 
also  flour  in  the  pan  to  make  the  gravy  without  adding  any  more. 

(27) 


28 


BEEF  CROQUETTES 

1  pound  upper  round,  or  other  lean    3^  medium-sized  onion,  grated. 

beef.  1  egg. 

1  cup  mashed  potato,  seasoned,  or    1  tablespoon  parsley,  chopped. 

1  cup  thick  cream  sauce.  Bread  crumbs. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Simmer  the  meat  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  until  tender.  Then 
grind  the  meat,  using  the  fine  knife  of  the  grinder.  Add  the  other 
ingredients,  but  reserve  the  egg  for  dipping.  Mix  well.  Form  the 
meat  into  balls  or  mold  into  oblong  or  cone  shapes.  Dip  into  the 
beaten  egg  which  has  been  well  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  of  water. 
Roll  in  finely  sifted  bread  crumbs  and  place  on  a  pan  or  board.  Let 
stand  for  an  hour  or  longer  for  the  egg  coating  to  dry.  If  the  cream 
sauce  is  used  as  the  binder,  make  it  from  3  tablespoons  flour  and  1 
cup  milk. 

Heat  in  an  iron  kettle  any  desired  fat  until  hot  enough  to  brown 
a  bread  crumb  in  40  seconds.  Then  carefully  place  the  croquettes 
in  a  wire  basket,  lower  them  slowly  into  the  fat,  and  cook  until  a 
golden  brown.  As  the  croquettes  are  removed  put  them  on  a  paper 
to  absorb  the  excess  fat  and  keep  warm  in  the  oven  until  all  are  pre- 
pared.   Serve  with  a  garnish  of  parslej"  and  tomato  sauce. 

For  an  oven-browned  instead  of  a  fried  croquette,  use  1}/^  instead 
of  1  cup  of  cream  sauce  in  the  mixture.  This  is  a  little  more  difficult 
to  mold.  Shape  the  croquettes  as  described,  dip  them  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  place  them  on  a  greased  pan  to  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

BEEF  ROLL 


2  cups  chopped  cooked  meat. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 
}/2  medium-sized  onion. 
1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  pars- 
ley. 

1  cup  broth  or  milk. 


1  tablespoon  chopped  celery  tops. 
J^-^  teaspoon  tabasco. 

M  cup  flour. 

2  tablespoons  fat. 

Rich  biscuit  dough,  made  with  2 
cups  flour. 


Make  a  sauce  of  the  flour,  fat,  and  the  milk  or  broth.  Cook  until 
thickened  and  then  mix  with  the  meat  and  seasonings.  Roll  the 
biscuit  dough  about  3^  inch  thick  and  long  enough  to  make  a  roll  of 
the  right  size  to  fit  into  the  baking  pan.  Place  the  meat  on  the  dough, 
and  leave  the  dough  uncovered  about  1  inch  from  the  sides.  Then 
roll  up  the  meat  and  dough  like  a  jelly  roll,  and  place  in  a  greased  pan. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  crust  is  a  golden  broA\Ti.  Serve  tomato 
or  any  other  well-seasoned  sauce  with  the  m.eat  roll. 


CORNED  BEEF  HASH 


1  pound  cooked  corned  beef.  I  Onion  to  flavor. 

5  boiled  potatoes.  |  Dash  of  cayenne. 

Put  ingredients  through  the  meat  grinder,  using  the  fine  knife. 
Grease  lightly  a  heavy  iron  skillet.  Pat  in  the  hash  in  an  even  layer 
and  cook  over  a  low  heat  until  a  golden  brown  crust  is  formed.  When 
brown  place  a  pan  or  lid  over  the  skillet  and  turn  the  hash  out  so  the 
browned  side  is  on  top.  Slip  the  uncooked  side  in  the  sldllet  and  allow 
this  side  to  cook  a  golden  brown.  Turn  onto  a  plate  in  the  same  way 
as  when  first  turned  and  garnish  with  parsley. 


29 


FRESH  BEEF  TONGUE 


1  beef  tongue. 
4  quarts  water. 
3  sprigs  parsley. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 


1  onion,  large. 

1  teaspoon  pepper  corns. 

2  bay  leaves. 


Wash  the  tongue  ^ycll.  Do  not  trim  it.  Place  it  in  water  to  cover, 
add  the  seasonings,  and  simmer  for  23^  to  3  hours,  or  until  the  meat 
is  tender.  Skin  the  tongue.  Slice  and  serve  hot,  or  allow  it  to  cool 
in  the  liquid  after  skinning  and  serve  cold. 

Make  a  stew  from  the  meat  at  the  base  of  the  tongue,  the  liquid, 
and  added  vegetables.  Or  cook  spinach  or  kale  in  the  liquid,  and 
serve  with  the  meat  which  is  not  in  shape  for  slicing. 


KIDNEY  STEW 


1  beef  kidney. 

1  cup  diced  potato. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

Few  drops  tabasco. 


1  tablespoon  thinly  sliced  onion. 
^4  teaspoon  salt. 
1  tablespoon  butter. 
1  egg  yolk 


Wash  the  kidney  well,  remove  the  skin,  and  most  of  the  fat.  Cover 
with  cold  water  and  heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  discard  the 
water,  and  repeat  the  process  until  there  is  no  strong  odor  and  no 
scum  on  the  water.  Then  add  more  water  and  simmer  the  kidney 
until  tender.  Cut  the  kidney  into  small  pieces.  Cook  the  diced 
potato  and  onion  and  add  to  the  cut  kidney.  Thicken  the  liquid 
with  the  blended  flour  and  butter,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes  longer. 
Take  the  stew  from  the  stove  and  stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolk,  the  par- 
sley, and  tabasco.   The  heat  of  the  stew  will  cook  the  egg  sufficiently 


OX  TAIL  STEW 


1  ox  tail. 

2Y2  quarts  water. 
4  carrots,  diced. 

2  turnips,  diced. 
2  onions,  sliced. 

1  large  potato,  diced. 


2  tablespoons  liutter. 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  or  other 

seasoning. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
1  tablespoon  parsley,  chopped  fine. 
Slices  of  lemon. 


Wash  the  ox  tail,  cut  in  short  lengths,  and  brown  it  in  its  own  fat. 
Cook  the  onions  in  the  butter,  add  to  the  meat  with  \  }/^  quarts  of  the 
water,  and  simmer  until  the  meat  is  tender.  In  the  meantime,  cook 
the  carrots  and  turnips  for  10  minutes  in  1  quart  of  the  water  and 
add  to  the  meat,  with  the  water  in  which  they  cooked.  Add  also  the 
potatoes,  the  sauce,  and  the  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  vegetables 
are  soft,  thicken  the  stew  with  a  small  quantity  of  flour  mixed  with 
a  little  cold  water  to  a  smooth  paste.  Cook  until  thickened.  Sprinkle 
with  the  parsley  and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 


BOILED  DINNER 


4  pounds  corn  beef. 

4  quarts  water. 

3  large  onions,  cut  in  half. 

2  large  turnips,  cut  in  quarters. 

3  parsnips. 


5  medium  carrots,  cut  in  half. 
3  potatoes,  large,  cut  in  halves  or 
quarters. 

]/2  head  cabbage,  medium,  cut  in 
eighths. 


30 


Select  a  good  piece  of  beef  and  cover  it  with  4  quarts  of  cold  water. 
Allow  the  water  to  come  to  the  boiling  point  and  then  discard  it. 
Cover  the  meat  again  with  4  more  quarts  of  water  and  let  it  simmer 
until  tender.  Take  the  meat  out  of  the  water.  If  the  liquid  is  too 
salty,  pour  off  part  of  it  and  add  sufficient  fresh  water  to  have  at 
least  3  pints  of  well-flavored  broth.  The  vegetables  are  added  at 
different  times,  depending  upon  the  time  needed  to  cook  them  tender. 
Add  the  onions  first,  then  20  minutes  later  the  turnips,  parsnips, 
carrots,  and  potatoes.  Fifteen  minutes  before  these  vegetables  are 
done,  add  the  cabbage,  which  has  been  cleaned  and  cut  in  sections. 
Serve  the  boiled  dmner  on  a  large  platter,  with  the  meat  in  the  center 
and  the  vegetables  drained  and  placed  neatly  around  it.  The  advan- 
tage of  this  method  of  cooking  is  to  have  the  vegetables  tender  and 
yet  not  overcooked,  as  is  sometimes  the  case  in  a  boiled  dinner. 

MEAT  LOAF 


2  pounds  ground  beef. 
}/2  pound  ground  pork. 
1  onion,  grated. 

1  cup  thick  cream  sauce  or  gravy, 
or  2  eggs. 


1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs. 

1  to  2  cups  canned  tomato. 

Salt. 

Pepper. 

Celery  tops. 


Mix  the  ingredients  together  thoroughly.  Shape  the  mixture  into 
a  loaf,  place  a  strip  or  two  of  salt  pork  or  small  pieces  of  suet  on  top, 
and  place  in  a  heavy  baking  pan.  Bake  for  Yi  \jO  ^/i  ol  an  hour. 
The  oven  should  be  hot  at  first,  reducing  the  temperature  toward 
the  end.  If  sauce  or  gravy  is  used  as  a  binder  for  the  loaf,  make  it 
with  3  tablespoons  flour  and  2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat  to  1 
cup  of  liquid. 

SAVORY  MEAT  ON  TOAST 


1  pound  shredded  lamb,  beef,  or 
pork. 

4  cups  celery  tops,  chopped  fine.  Or 
2  cups  celery  and  2  of  chopped 
leaves. 


2  cups  canned  tomato  juice,  strained. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 

1  tablespoon  shredded  onion. 


Shred  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  Brown  the  meat  in  its  own  fat 
in  a  frying  pan.  Add  the  celery  tops,  onion,  and  salt.  Cover  and 
cook  for  about  10  minutes.  Add  the  flour  and  butter  mixed  together 
and  the  tomato  juice.  Stir  until  the  mixture  is  thick  and  there  is 
no  starchy  flavor.  Serve  the  savory  meat  on  slices  of  delicately 
browned  toast.  Fried  noodles  or  French  fried  onions  sprinkled  over 
the  top  just  before  serving  are  an  attractive  addition. 


SHEPHERD'S  PIE 

Grease  a  baking  dish  and  cover  the  sides  wtih  a  thin  layer  of  sea- 
soned mashed  potato.  Fill  the  center  with  well-seasoned,  slightly 
thickened  stew,  creamed  chicken,  or  creamed  fish.  There  should  be 
no  potatoes  in  the  stew.  Cover  the  top  with  the  mashed  potato  and 
bake  until  the  pie  is  hot  through  and  lightly  browned  on  top.  A 
small  amount  of  baking  powder  or  a  well-beaten  egg  adds  to  the 
lightness  of  the  potato. 


31 


LIVER  AND  BACON 

Allow  1  or  2  thin  slices  of  bacon  for  each  serving.  Cook  the  bacon 
over  a  slov/  fire  in  a  broad  iron  skillet.  As  soon  as  it  is  delicately 
browned  and  crisp,  take  the  bacon  out  and  drain  it;  if  left  in  the  fat, 
it  will  be  greasy.  While  the  bacon  is  cooking,  wipe  the  liver  and 
remove  the  otiter  skin  and  veins.  Many  cooks  pour  boiling  water 
over  beef  liver  to  draw  out  any  blood  remaining  on  it.  Hog  and 
lamb  livers  are  improved  by  scalding.  Beef  and  calf  livers  are  good 
cither  scalded  or  unscalded.  Dip  each  piece  in  flour,  season  with 
salt,  and  cook  slowly  in  the  bacon  fat.  Intense  heat  makes  liver  dry 
and  leathery  and  causes  the  edges  to  scorch.  Onions  cut  in  thin, 
romid  slice.-i  may  be  cooked  with  the  liver.  When  the  liver  is  tender 
and  golden  brown,  remove  from  the  pan  and  keep  it  warm  while  the 
gravy  is  made.  To  make  the  gravy,  strain  the  fat,  measure  out  2 
tablespoons  of  it,  and  mix  with  about  13/2  tablespoons  flour.  Use  a 
cup  of  milk  to  mix  with  the  fat  and  flour,  and  cook  the  gravy  until 
smooth.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the 
liver  or  serve  it  separately.  Garnish  the  dish  of  liver  with  the  bacon 
and  a  bit  of  parsley. 

SCRAPPLE 

Select  3  pounds  of  very  bony  pieces  of  pork  or  pork  and  beef  mixed, 
if  preferred.  A  hog's  head  may  be  used  for  making  scrapple.  For 
each  pound  of  bony  meat  use  about  a  quart  of  water  and  .simmer 
imtil  the  meat  drops  from  the  bone.  Remove  the  bone,  taking  care 
to  get  out  all  the  tiny  pieces.  Chop  the  meat  into  small  pieces. 
There  should  be  about  2  quarts  of  broth  left.  If  necessary,  add 
water  to  make  this  quantity.  Bring  the  broth  to  the  boiling  point, 
slowly  add  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  and  cook  the  mixture  until  it  is  like 
a  thick  mush,  stirring  almost  constantly.  Add  the  chopped  meat, 
salt,  and  any  other  seasoning  desired.  Add  onion  juice,  sage,  and 
thyme,  if  desired.  Pour  the  hot  scrapple  into  dampened  oblong 
euamelware  pans.  Let  stand  until  cold  and  firm.  Slice  and  brown 
in  a  hot  slcillet.  If  the  scrapple  is  rich  with  fat,  no  more  fat  is  needed 
for  frying. 

VEAL  TIMBALES 

1  pound  veal.  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

2  eggs.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

teaspoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

Onion  juice.  Lemon  juice  to  taste. 

1  cup  milk  or  meat  broth. 

Simmer  the  veal  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  until  tender,  then  put 
through  the  meat  grinder,  using  the  fine  knife.  Prepare  a  sauce  of 
the  butter,  flour,  and  Squid.  Add  to  this  the  well-beaten  eggs,  the 
seasonings,  and  the  meat.  Mix  well.  Grease  custard  cups  and  pour 
in  the  mixture.  Bake  for  3^  hour  in  a  pan  surrounded  by  water. 
Turn  the  timbales  out  and  serve  hot.  Chicken,  lamb,  or  any  other 
left-over  meat  may  be  used  instead  of  veal  in  making  timbales. 


32 


CURRIED  VEAL 


2  pounds  veal. 
2  cups  lima  beans. 
1  cup  diced  cucumber, 
teaspoon  curry. 


1  medium-sized  onion,  chopped. 
}/2  green  pepper,  chopped. 
1  tablespoon  butter, 
teaspoons  salt. 


Wipe  the  meat  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Place  in  a  saucepan, 
add  boiling  water  to  cover,  and  simmer  the  meat  until  it  is  almost 
tender.  Then  add  the  lima  beans.  In  the  meantime  cook  the  onion 
and  pepper  in  the  butter  and  add  to  the  meat.  When  the  beans  are 
done,  thicken  the  liquid  slightly  with  a  little  flour  which  has  been 
mixed  with  the  curry,  the  salt,  and  a  little  cold  water.  Add  the 
cucumber  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes  longer. 

JELLIED  VEAL 


1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 
1  cup  whipped  cream. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


2  pounds  veal. 
1  quart  water. 
1  tablespoon  gelatin. 
Juice  of  )/2  lemon. 

Cook  the  veal  at  simmering  point  until  tender.  Separate  the  meat 
from  the  bones.  Put  the  meat  through  the  grinder,  using  the  fine 
knife.  Soak  the  gelatm  in  yi  cup  water  and  add  to  the  hot  meat 
broth.  Add  the  ground  meat  and  the  seasoning.  Let  the  mixture 
stand  until  it  begins  to  set,  then  fold  in  the  whipped  cream  and  pour 
the  mixture  into  a  dampened,  oblong  pan.  Chill  thoroughly  imtil 
firm.  Cut  in  slices,  and  serve  cold.  Bony  pieces  of  veal,  such  a3 
cuts  from  the  neck  and  the  shoulder,  are  excellent  for  making  jellied 
veal. 

VEAL  CUTLET 

Veal  cutlet  should  be  served  well  done.  The  meat  for  cutlets 
should  be  cut  about  ^  of  an  mch  thick.  If  cut  any  thinner,  it  is 
lUvely  to  dry  out  in  cooking.  Remove  any  skin  and  cut  the  meat 
into  pieces  of  convenient  size  for  serving.  Season  with  lemon  and 
onion  juice  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  if  desired,  before  cooking. 
Dip  in  flour  and  then  cook  in  shallow  fat  imtil  a  crust  is  foraied  on 
both  sides.  If  the  meat  is  tender,  cover  and  cook  slowly  until  done. 
If  the  meat  is  inclined  to  be  tough,  add  hot  water  and  sunmer  slowly. 
A  rich  gravy  will  then  be  developed,  which  is  served  with  the  meat. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  gravy  by  adding  flour  and 
mixing  well  with  the  fat.  Then  add  hot  water.  Pour  the  gravy 
over  the  cutlet. 

ROAST  VEAL  SHOULDER  WITH  STUFFING 

Remove  the  shoulder  bone,  and  fill  the  cavity  with  a  stuffing  made 
as  follows:  ♦ 


2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs. 
4  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
teaspoon  salt. 


^4:  teaspoon  pepper. 

3^  teaspoon  finely  grated  onion. 

A  little  sage  or  thyme,  if  desired. 


Mix  the  seasoning  with  the  diy  crumbs  and  moisten  with  the  butter. 
Place  the  prepared  meat  in  the  roasting  pan.  Rub  drippings  over 
the  surface,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dredge  with  flour. 
The  flour  forms  a  crust  which  holds  the  meat  juices.  Put  the  meat 
in  a  hot  ov-en,  in  an  uncovered  roaster  and  cook  until  well  browned. 
Then  reduce  the  heat  and  cook  more  slowly  until  tender.  After  the 
meat  is  removed,  add  flour  and  water  to  make  a  brown  gravy. 


33 


VEAL  PIE 


2  pounds  veal. 

1  onion,  sliced. 

4  stalks  celery,  chopped  fine. 

2  potatoes,  diced. 

3  carrots,  diced. 


1  ciuart  water. 

2  tablespoons  fat. 
1  tablespoon  flour. 
Salt. 

Pepper. 


Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  sear  in  the  fat  in  a  skillet  with 
the  sliced  onion.  Then  place  Ln  a  saucepan  with  the  water  and  sim- 
mer until  almost  tender.  Add  the  other  vegetables  and  cook  for  15 
minutes  longer.  Thicken  the  liquid  slightly  with  the  flour.  Add 
the  salt  and  pepper. 

Line  the  sides  of  a  deep  baking  dish  with  a  thin  layer  of  rich  bis- 
cuit dough.  Pour  the  meat  and  vegetable  mixture  into  the  dish. 
Cover  with  a  layer  of  the  biscuit  dough.  Cut  a  slit  in  the  top  crust 
so  the  steam  can  escape.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  biscuit  dough 
is  delicately  brown  and  crisp. 

PORK  CHOPS  DE  LUXE 

5  pork  chops.  3  teaspoons  salt. 

5  medium-sized  apples,  pared  and     3^  teaspoon  pepper, 
cored.  IJ^  cups  boiling  water. 

4  white  potatoes,  medium  size.  Flour. 

6  onions,  cut  in  half. 


A  large  baking  dish  is  necessary  for  this.  If  a  casserole  is  not 
available,  a  roaster  with  a  cover  may  be  used.  Grease  the  baking 
dish.  Cut  the  onions  in  half  and  place  them  in  the  bottom  of  the 
dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  Core  the  apples.  Cut  each  apple  nito  4 
or  5  rings,  and  stick  the  end  of  a  pork  chop  through  these  rmgs. 
Then  place  the  pork  chops  and  apples  over  the  layer  of  onions  and 
spi'inkle  lightly  with  flour.  Fill  up  the  spaces  with  the  potatoes, 
thmly  sliced.  Add  the  remainmg  salt  and  the  pepper.  Pour  in  the 
boiling  water  and  cover  the  baking  dish.  Bake  until  tender,  which 
will  take  a  little  over  1  hour.  Then  remove  the  cover  of  the  baking 
dish  and  contmue  the  baking  until  all  the  food  is  a  rich  golden  brown. 

PORK  WITH  VEGETABLES 

1  pound  lean  pork.  1  cup  chopped  celery. 

6  tablespoons  butter.  2  quarts  cabbage  cut  in  .strips. 

4  tablespoons  chopped  onion.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

4  tablespoons  chopped  green  pepper. 

Chop  the  pork,  brown  it  in  the  butter,  add  the  chopped  onion, 
green  pepper,  celery,  and  cabbage,  and  let  them  brown  a  little  in  the 
hot  fat.  Then  add  a  small  quantity  of  water  and  let  the  meat  and 
vegetables  simmer  for  about  15  minutes.  The  vegetables  should 
then  be  tender  but  still  crisp  and  fresh  looking.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 

61366°— 27  5 


34 


PORK  AND  PARSNIP  STEW 


1}4  pounds  pounds  fresh  pork. 
3  pints  hot  water. 
3  cups  diced  parsnip. 


1  cup  sliced  onion. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 
IH  teaspoons  salt. 


1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Cut  the  pork  into  small  pieces  and  brown  in  a  skillet.  Add  the 
water  and  simmer  the  meat  until  nearly  tender.  Then  add  the 
vegetables  and  cook  for  15  or  20  minutes.  Mix  the  flour  with  a 
small  quantity  of  cold  water,  add  to  the  meat  and  vegetables  and 
cook  until  the  stew  is  thickened.  Add  the  salt.  Sprinkle  the  pars- 
ley in  the  stew  and  serve  hot. 


Select  a  9  or  10  pound  ham  and  scrub  it  thoroughly.  If  very 
salty,  soak  it  overnight. 

For  cooking,  to  each  pound  of  ham  allow  at  least  1  quart  of  boiling 
water,  or  enough  to  cover.  Place  the  ham  in  the  hot  water.  To  a 
9  or  10  pound  ham  add  1  carrot  sliced,  2  stalks  celery,  1  teaspoon 
celery  salt,  3  sprigs  parsley,  1  onion  sliced,  2  or  3  bay  leaves,  and 
3/^  cup  strong  vinegar.  Cover,  and  simmer  for  4  or  5  hours,  counting 
the  time  from  the  beginning  of  the  simmering  period.  Twenty-five 
minutes  to  the  pound  will  be  about  the  right  time.  Test  by  using 
a  skewer,  or  a  fork  with  long  tines,  and  turn  the  ham  so  it  will  cook 
evenly  on  both  sides.  Add  more  hot  water  as  the  ham  liquor  evap- 
orates. The  ham  should  be  covered  with  water  during  the  entire 
cooking  period.  After  the  ham  is  tender,  let  it  stand  overnight  in 
the  liquor,  or,  if  it  is  to  be  served  hot,  remove  the  skin  at  once, 
wait  until  the  surface  of  the  ham  is  cool,  then  cover  with  the  following 
mixture : 

3  cups  brown  sugar.  I  3^  teaspoon  mustard. 

3  cups  fine,  soft  bread  crumbs.  I  Cider  or  vinegar  to  moisten. 

Mix  ingredients  and  spread  over  the  upper  side  of  the  ham  until 
entirely  covered.  Press  long-stemmed,  whole  cloves  into  the  coated 
fat  at  intervals.  These  help  to  hold  on  the  paste,  and  also  season 
the  meat.  Place  the  ham  in  a  hot  oven  to  form  a  crust  quickly, 
then  reduce  the  temperature  and  baste  frequently  with  a  mixture  of 
ham  liquor  and  cider  or  vinegar  until  the  ham  is  evenly  browned. 


Place  a  thick  slice  of  ham  in  a  good-sized  baking  dish.  Add 
thinly  sliced  raw  potatoes  which  have  been  sprinkled  lightly  with 
flour.  Pour  over  them  enough  milk  to  cover.  Bake  slowly  for  about 
an  hour  and  a  half,  or  until  the  potatoes  and  ham  are  thoroughly 
cooked.  Cover  the  baking  dish  for  the  first  hour  of  the  cooking. 
The  salt  and  fat  of  the  ham  are  sufficient  to  season  the  potatoes.  If 
necessary,  add  a  little  hot  milk  from  time  to  time  during  cooking. 
There  should  be  enough  liquid  to  form  a  tasty  gravy  around  the  ham 
and  potatoes.    Serve  the  ham  and  potatoes  from  the  baking  dish. 

If  the  ham  is  very  salty,  soak  it,  preferably  in  buttermilk  or  sour 
milk,  before  cooking  it  with  the  potatoes.  The  acid  of  sour  milk 
seems  to  soften  the  ham  and  make  it  very  tender  when  cooked. 


BAKED  HAM 


HAM  EN  CASSEROLE 


35 


SMOTHERED  HAM  WITH  SWEET  POTATOES 

1  slice  of  smoked  ham,  cut  into  sizes     1  tablespoon  butter  or  ham  drippings. 

for  serving.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

3  cups  raw,  sliced,  sweet  potatoes.        1  cup  hot  water. 

Brown  the  hum  lightly  on  both  sides  and  arrange  it  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  a  baking  dish.  Spread  the  sliced  sweet  potatoes  over  the 
ham.  Sprinkle  with  sugar.  Add  the  hot  water  and  extra  fat. 
Cover  the  dish  and  bake  slowly  until  the  ham  is  tender.  Baste  the 
potatoes  occasionally  with  the  gravy.    Brown  the  top  well. 


PICKLED  PIG'S  FEET 

Place  pig's  feet  in  salt  pickle  for  several  days.  Then  boil  them  for 
a  varying  length  of  time,  depending  upon  the  size  of  the  feet.  Take 
care  to  remove  them  from  the  kettle  before  the  meat  separates  from 
the  bones.  Split  the  feet  lengthwise,  place  them  in  a  jar,  and  cover 
with  vinegar  to  which  bay  leaves,  allspice,  and  whole  black  pepper 
have  been  added. 


ROAST  STUFFED  SHOULDER  OF  LAMB 

Have  the  shoulder  i)lade  removed,  and  fill  the  cavity  with  a  stuffing 
made  as  follows: 


2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs. 
4  to  6  tablespoons  butter. 
}/2  teaspoon  salt. 
^  teaspoon  pepper. 


teaspoon  onion  juice. 
1  teaspoon  parsley  or  celery  tops 

chopped  fine. 
Small  quantity  of  thyme. 


Melt  the  butter,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  mix  well  together. 
Stuff  this  mixture  into  the  lamb  shoulder  and  place  in  a  baking 
pan.  Sprinkle  salt,  pepper,  and  flour  over  the  outside  of  the  meat 
and  sear  in  a  hot  oven.  Reduce  the  temperature  and  cook  for  l}/2 
hours.    Serve  piping  hot. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  LAMB 

Choose  a  plump,  well-fatted  leg  weighing  5  to  53^  pounds.  Wipe 
with  a  damp  cloth.  Rub  salt  over  the  outside  of  the  meat,  and 
dredge  with  flour  if  desired.  Place  the  meat,  bone  side  up,  in  a 
heavy  roasting  pan,  preferably  on  a  rack,  and  put  it  in  a  vey  hot 
oven  (about  500°  F.).  If  it  is  roasted  in  this  position  the  thick  part 
of  the  meat  will  be  most  convenient  for  carving.  Let  the  meat  stay 
at  this  temperature  for  20  minutes,  or  until  it  sears  over;  then  let 
the  oven  cool  to  a  moderate  temperature  (about  350°  F.).  Continue 
roasting  for  2  to  2}/2  hours,  depending  on  size  of  leg.  A  general  rule 
is  to  allow  15  minutes  per  pound,  counting  out  the  time  required  for 
searing.  Do  not  add  water.  If  desired  place  raw  peeled  onions 
around  the  meat  when  it  is  put  in  the  oven.  Sprinkle  the  onions 
with  salt,  and  a  very  little  flour.    Serve  meat  piping  hot. 

BRAISED  BREAST  OF  LAMB  WITH  SPINACH  STUFFING 

Simmer  a  breast  of  lamb  until  tender  in  enough  salted  water  to 
cover.  Remove  from  the  broth,  slip  the  bones  out  at  once,  and 
allow  the  meat  to  cool.    Meanwhile  prepare  the  spinach  stuffing. 


36 


Spread  out  the  breast  of  lamb,  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  the  stuffing, 
roll,  and  tie  at  both  ends  with  clean  white  string.  Place  the  rolled 
meat  in  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle  lightly  with  flour,  pour  3^  cup  of  the 
broth  around  it,  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  In  serving  slice  the  meat 
from  the  end  of  the  roll. 


SPINACH  STUFFING 


2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs.  1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper. 

}/2  pound  cleaned  spinach  leaves.  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion. 

4  tablespoons  butter.  I/2  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  celery.  34  teaspoon  pepper. 

Wash  the  spinach  thoroughly,  cut  into  fine  pieces,  and  place  in  a 
pan  with  the  pepper,  minced  fine,  the  onion,  and  one-half  the  butter. 
Cook  about  2  minutes,  long  enough  to  wilt  the  spinach  slightly, 
stirring  constantly.  Then  push  the  spinach  to  one  side  of  the  pan, 
melt  the  remaining  butter  in  the  empty  part  of  the  pan,  and  mix 
with  it  the  bread  crumbs,  so  that  they  absorb  the  butter.  This  is 
simply  an  easy  way  of  buttering  the  crumbs  without  using  another 
pan.  Mix  the  spinach  and  crumbs  and  stir  until  somewhat  dry. 
The  spinach  will  become  more  moist  as  the  stuffing  cooks. 

LAMB  STEW 


2  pounds  lamb.  3/2  cup  sliced  onions. 

2  tablespoons  fat.  1  green  pepper,  chopped. 

3  cups  diced  rutabaga  turnips.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth,  cut  into  small  pieces,  brown 
the  sliced  onion  in  the  hot  fat,  roll  the  meat  in  flour,  then  brown  it 
in  the  hot  fat.  Be  careful  not  to  scorch  the  meat  or  the  delicate 
flavor  will  be  lost.  Put  the  browned  meat  and  onion  in  a  kettle, 
rinse  the  frying-pan  with  water,  and  pour  this  liquid  over  the  meat 
and  onion.  Add  enough  more  water  to  make  about  a  quart  and  a 
half  in  all.  Simmer  the  meat  for  about  1  hour,  then  add  the  diced 
turnips,  chopped  green  pepper,  and  the  seasoning.  Cook  for  20  to 
30  minutes  longer.  If  the  stew  is  not  thick  enough,  mix  together  a 
little  flour  in  cold  water,  stir  this  in,  and  continue  stirring  for  about 
5  minutes.  The  stew  is  likely  to  stick  to  the  kettle  and  scorch  after 
the  thickening  is  added. 


RABBIT  IN  TOMATO  SAUCE 


1  large  rabbit.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

2  tablespoons  fat.  Pepper. 

IJ^  cups  tomato  pulp  and  juice.  3  cups  water. 

1  large  onion  chopped  fine. 

Dip  the  pieces  of  rabbit  in  flour  and  brown  the  fat  in  a  deep  iron 
skillet.  Add  the  chopped  onion  and  tomato  juice  with  the  season- 
ings and  the  boiling  water.  Cover  and  let  simmer  on  top  of  stove 
or  in  the  oven  for  1  hour.  The  tomato  sauce  cooks  down  and  gives 
a  very  good  flavor  to  the  rabbit.  A  little  more  thickening  may 
need  to  be  added  just  before  serving. 


37 


BAKED  RABBIT 


One  rabbit,  3  cups  cream  or  a  thin  white  sauce,  6  slices  bacon, 
and  flour  for  dredging. 

Skin,  clean,  and  wash  the  rabbit.  Split  it  into  two  pieces,  cutting 
along  the  backbone.  Rub  with  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Place  in 
a  roasting  pan.  Dredge  with  flour.  Lay  strips  of  bacon  across  the 
rabbit.  Pour  over  and  around  it  3  cups  of  white  sauce  or  3  cups  of 
cream.  Bake  13^  hours,  basting  fre(iuently.  Serve  hot  with  the 
cream  gravy.  The  liver  may  be  boiled  until  tender,  chopped,  and 
added  to  the  gravy  before  serving. 


2  small  onions. 

Fry  the  bacon  until  light  brown.  Remove  it  from  the  fat.  Use 
this  bacon  fat  to  brown  the  rabbit,  which  has  been  dipped  in  flour. 
Arrange  in  a  casserole  or  a  baking  dish  the  pieces  of  rabbit,  the 
strips  of  bacon,  and  sliced  onions  and  potatoes.  Dredge  lightly 
with  flour.  Pour  the  hot  water  over  all.  Cover  and  cook  slowly 
for  2  hours. 


RABBIT  EN  CASSEROLE 


8  slices  bacon. 

1  large  rabbit  cut  into  pieces. 

2  medium-sized  potatoes. 


2  cups  hot  water. 
1  teaspoon  salt, 
teaspoon  pepper. 


FISH  AND  SHELLFISH 


SCALLOPED  SALMON 


1  pound  can  of  salmon. 

cups  milk. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 


2  tablespoons  butter. 

}/\  teaspoon  salt. 

3^  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 


Prepare  a  sauce  of  the  milk,  flour,  and  butter.  Place  a  layer  of  the 
salmon  in  the  bottom  of  a  greased  baking  dish.  Pour  some  of  the 
sauce  over  the  salm^on.  Add  another  layer  of  salmon,  then  more  sauce. 
Cover  the  top  with  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake  until  the  sauce 
bubbles  and  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

CODFISH  BALLS 

IJ/^  cups  (packed)  salt  codfish,  shredded. 

3  cups  mashed  potatoes,  seasoned  with  milk  and  butter. 

2  eggs. 

Shred  the  fish,  soak  in  the  cold  water  until  freshened,  and  cook  until 
tender.  Place  the  fish  in  a  double  layer  of  cheesecloth  and  press  out 
all  the  liquid.  Mix  the  cooked  codfish  with  the  hot  mashed  potatoes 
and  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Beat  until  light.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
hot  fat  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Drain  on  paper  and  serve  as  soon 
as  possible. 

FISH  MOLD 


2  eggs. 

cup  water. 
34  cup  of  vinegar. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 
3^  teaspoon  celery  seed. 


}/2  teaspoon  sugar. 
2  tablespoons  gelatin. 
}/2  cup  cold  water. 
2  cups  minced  fish. 


Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  seasoning,  the  vinegar,  and  water  and  cook 
over  boiling  water  until  thickened.  Soften  the  gelatin  in  cold  water 
and  add  to  the  hot  dressing.  Then  add  the  fish.  Place  in  individual 
cups  or  one  large  mold,  and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place  until  firmly  set. 
Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. 


FISH  CHOWDER 


pounds  fish. 
4  potatoes. 
1  onion,  chopped. 


2  cups  diced  carrots. 
3>4  pound  salt  pork. 
2  cups  milk. 


;  cups  milk. 

Cod  or  haddock  is  the  kind  of  fish  generally  preferred  for  chowder, 
but  any  kind  of  fresh  dried,  or  canned  fish  will  do  if  it  has  large  flakes 
of  meat  and  only  a  few  bones,  which  can  be  easily  picked  out  before 
the  fish  is  combined  with  the  other  ingredients.  If  preferred,  a  quart 
of  clams  or  oysters  may  be  used  instead  of  the  fish. 

Cut  the  salt  pork  in  small  pieces  and  fry  with  the  chopped  onion  for 
five  minutes.  Put  pork,  onions,  carrots,  and  potatoes  in  a  kettle  and 
cover  with  boiling  water.  Cook  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Add 
the  milk  and  the  fish  which  has  been  removed  from  the  bones  and  cut 
in  small  pieces.    Cook  until  the  fish  is  tender,  or  for  about  10  minutes. 

(38) 


39 


Chowder  can  be  thickened  with  flour,  although  many  persons  prefer 
to  add  crackers,  in  imitation  of  the  fishermen  who  always  used  pilot 
bread.  Add  eight  or  nine  good-sized  crackers  to  the  chowder  a  few 
minutes  before  serving.  If  flour  is  used  for  thickening,  mix  3  table- 
spoons of  flour  with  about  Y2  cup  of  milk,  stir  it  into  the  chowder,  and 
allow  it  to  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  If  a  chowder  made  with  tomatoes 
is  preferred,  use  23^2  cups  of  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes  instead  of 
the  milk. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL 

1  pint  raw  oysters.  }^  teaspoon  salt. 

6  tablespoons  tomato  catsup.  2  tablespoons  chopped  celery. 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce. 

12  drops  tabasco  sauce.  2  tablespoons  grated  horseradish. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  except  the  oysters.  Chill.  Place  the  cold 
oysters  in  cocktail  glasses.    Add  the  sauce  just  before  serving. 

OYSTERS  ON  THE  HALF  SHELL 

For  serving  on  the  half  shell,  it  is  better  to  buy  03^sters  in  their  shells 
and  shuck  them  at  home.  Scrub  the  shells  thoroughly.  Then  shuck 
them — that  is,  pry  them  open  with  an  oyster  knife  or  other  heavy 
steel  blade.  Take  off"  the  top  shell  and  discard  it.  Slip  the  knife 
under  the  oyster  and  cut  loose  the  round  muscle  that  holds  it  to  the 
shell.  Place  the  oysters  on  the  half  shell  on  plates  full  of  cracked  ice. 
Arrange  the  shells  so  that  they  radiate  from  the  center  and  allow  5  or 
6  oysters  to  each  person.  Place  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  in  the  center 
of  each  plate. 

Oysters  on  the  half  shell  may  be  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
tomato  catchup,  a  little  tabasco,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  grated 
horseradish. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS 

1  quart  oysters.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2Y2  cups  milk  and  oyster  liquor.  Y%  teaspoon  pepper. 

3^  cup  butter.  34  teaspoon  onion  juice,  if  desired. 

H  cup  flour. 

Cook  the  oysters  in  their  liquor  until  the  edges  begin  to  curl.  Do 
not  let  them  cook  too  long  or  they  will  be  tough.  Strain  off  the 
liquor.  To  this  liquor  add  enough  milk  to  make  2  cups.  Melt  the 
butter  and  add  the  flour,  stirring  until  blended.  Add  the  liquid.  Cook 
for  5  or  10  minutes  to  do  away  with  the  starchy  flavor  of  the  flour. 
Add  the  oysters  and  seasoning  and  serve  at  once  in  patty  shells  or  on 
toast.    If  creamed  oysters  stand,  the  sauce  becomes  too  thin. 

FRIED  OYSTERS 

Select  large  oysters  for  single  frys.  Drain  the  oysters  and  look 
them  over  carefully  for  small  pieces  of  shell.  Have  finely  sifted  stale 
bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  salt  and,  lightly,  with  pepper.  Dip  the 
oysters  in  a  well-beaten  egg  to  which  1  tablespoon  of  cold  water  has 
been  added  and  roll  them  in  the  seasoned  crumbs.  Place  the  oysters 
on  a  pan  or  board  and  allow  them  to  stand  until  the  egg  and  bread 
coating  has  hardened. 


m 


Heat  in  an  iron  kettle  any  desired  fat  until  hot  enough  to  brown  a 
bread  crumb  in  40  seconds.  Then  carefully  place  the  oysters  in  a 
wire  basket,  lower  them  into  the  fat  slowly,  and  cook  until  golden 
brown.  As  the  oysters  are  removed  put  them  on  paper  to  absorb  the 
excess  fat  and  keep  warm  until  all  are  prepared. 

OYSTERS  SCALLOPED  WITH  RICE 


3  cups  cooked  rice. 
1  pint  fresh  oysters. 

1  cup  chopped  celer}'. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 


1  cup  milk. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 

teaspoon  pepper. 


Place  alternate  layers  of  rice,  oysters,  and  celery  in  a  baking  dish. 
Pour  over  them  a  smooth,  white  sauce  made  by  melting  the  butter, 
and  blending  with  the  flour,  the  salt,  and  the  pepper,  and  adding  the 
milk.    Bake  for  20  minutes. 


OYSTER  AND  VEGETABLE  STEW 


1  small  onion,  chopped  fine. 
1  cup  celery,  chopped  fine. 
4  tablespoons  butter. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 


1  quart  oysters. 

1  cup  water. 

}4  cup  raw  turnip,  chopped. 

2  cups  shredded  raw  cabbage. 

Boil  the  turnip  in  the  water  for  5  minutes.  Then  add  the  shredded 
cabbage  and  the  chopped  onion.  Cook  for  10  minutes.  Add  the 
oysters,  salt,  and  butter.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes  until  the  oysters 
curl  at  the  edge.  Add  the  celery  just  before  serving.  A  little  thick- 
ening may  be  used  if  desired,  for  the  liquor  comes  out  of  the  oysters 
as  they  cook.  Serve  toasted  bread  or  crackers  or  crisp  biscuits  with 
the  stew. 

CLAM  CHOWDER 


1  quart  shucked  clams. 

2  small  potatoes. 

1  onion,  medium,  cut  in  small  pieces. 

2  slices  bacon,  cut  in  small  pieces  or 
an  equal  quantity  of  salt  pork. 


3^  teaspoon  salt. 
Few  drops  tabasco. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 


Remove  the  clams  from  the  liquor  and  strain  the  liquor  through 
cheesecloth  or  a  very  fine  wire  strainer  to  remove  any  small  pieces  of 
shell.  Crisp  the  bacon  and  remove  it  from  the  fat  and  break  into 
small  pieces.  If  salt  pork  is  used  cut  it  into  dice  before  frying.  Cook 
the  onion  in  the  meat  fat  until  yellow  and  then  add  the  flour.  Pour 
most  of  the  clam  liquor  into  the  pan  slowly  and  cook  until  thickened. 
Cook  the  clams  below  the  boiling  point  in  the  remainder  of  the  liquor 
for  two  or  three  minutes,  then  place  the  clams  through  the  fine  knife 
of  the  meat  grinder,  taking  care  to  catch  the  juice  which  is  pressed 
from  them  while  grinding.  Add  the  milk  to  the  thickened  clam  juice, 
the  salt,  the  bacon  or  salt  pork,  the  ground  clams,  and  the  remainder 
of  the  juice.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Sprinkle  finely  chopped 
parsley  over  the  top  and  serve  over  crackers. 


POULTRY 


CHICKEN  LOAF 


2  cups  finely  cut  cooked  chicken. 
1  cup  fine  bread  crumbs. 

tablespoons  butter  or  chicken 


Salt. 
Paprika. 

Onion   and   green  pepper  fried  in 


^2  cup  mashed  canned  peas. 


fat. 
cup  milk. 
2  eggs. 


butter  or  chicken  fat. 


Heat  the  milk,  moisten  the  crumbs  with  it,  and  combine  with  the 
other  ingredients,  adding  the  beaten  eggs  last.  Place  the  mixture 
v\  a  greased  baking  dish  or  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
1  hour,  or  until  firm  and  brown.  Turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve 
hot  or  cold.    If  served  cold,  garnish  with  sliced  tomato. 


Cut  the  fowl  into  pieces  convenient  for  serving.  Dust  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  flour.  Brown  delicately  m  a  small  quantity  of  fat. 
As  each  piece  is  removed  from  the  frying  pan,  place  it  ia  the  casserole. 
Pour  a  little  water  into  the  frying  pan  to  rinse  out  the  particles  of 
fat  and  add  this  liquid  to  the  fowl  in  the  casserole.  Cover  the 
casserole  and  cook  the  fowl  in  a  slow  oven  for  3  or  4  hours,  or  until 
it  is  tender.  Just  before  serving,  remove  the  fowl  and  add  to  the 
juices  a  cup  of  milk  which  has  been  blended  with  13^  tablespoons 
of  flour.  Cook  for  10  minutes,  put  the  fowl  back  in  this  gravy,  and 
serve  from  the  casserole. 


Dress  the  fowl  and  cut  it  into  pieces  for  serving.  Roll  each  piece 
in  flour  and  brown  in  hot  fat.  Browning  the  chicken  before  cooking 
it  helps  retain  and  develop  the  flavor.  After  the  pieces  are  browned, 
simmer  until  tender  in  enough  water  to  cover.  When  it  is  done, 
take  the  chicken  out  and  cook  dumplings  in  the  gravy.  Serve  the 
chicken  in  the  center  of  a  platter,  with  the  dumplings  around  the 
edge.    Pour  the  gravy  over  the  chicken. 


teaspoon  salt. 

Sift  the  flour,  baknig  powder,  and  salt  together.  Beat  the  eggs 
well,  add  the  milk,  and  mix  with  the  dry  ingredients.  Drop  by 
small  spoonfuls  into  the  chicken  gravy.  Cover  tightly  and  cook 
for  15  minutes.  The  top  must  not  be  removed  wliile  the  dumplings 
are  cooking.    If  the  steam  escapes  the  dumplings  will  not  be  light. 

61.366"— 27  6  (41) 


FOWL  EN  CASSEROLE 


FRICASSEED  CHICKEN  WITH  DUMPLINGS 


DUMPLINGS 


1  cup  flour,  sifted. 
23^  teaspoons  baking  jjowder. 


1  egg. 

tablespoons  milk. 


42 


CHICKEN  RIZOTTO 


1  quart  chicken  broth. 

1  cup  chopped  chicken  meat. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 


1  onion,  minced. 
^  cup  rice. 
Grated  cheese. 


Pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  left-over  cooked  chicken.  Stew 
the  bones  in  enough  water  to  make  a  quart  of  broth,  adding  any 
left-over  gravy  or  sauce  that  will  furnish  chicken  flavor.  In  a  large 
skillet  cook  slowly  in  the  butter  the  onion,  which  has  been  minced 
finely.  Do  not  let  the  onion  brown.  To  this  add  the  chicken  broth. 
When  it  boils  up  rapidly,  sprinkle  in  slowly  the  rice  which  has  been 
washed  free  of  surface  starch.  Cover  the  skillet.  Allow  the  rice  to 
simmer  in  the  broth  for  about  25  minutes  or  until  the  grains  swell 
and  become  soft.  Shake  the  skillet  from  time  to  time  to  keep  the 
rice  from  sticking,  but  do  not  stir  it  unless  absolutely  necessary.  By 
the  time  the  rice  is  done  it  will  have  absorbed  practically  all  the  broth, 
and  the  grains  will  be  large  and  separate.  Then  add  the  small 
pieces  of  chicken  which  were  picked  from  the  bones,  turn  the  mixture 
onto  a  hot  platter,  and  sprinkle  generously  with  grated  cheese. 
The  Italians  use  Parmesan  cheese,  but  any  of  the  American  varieties 
hard  enough  to  grate  will  be  satisfactory. 


Simmer  the  fowl  in  a  small  quantity  of  salted  water  until  tender. 
Remove  from  the  broth.  Set  the  fowl  aside  for  stuffing.  To  the 
chicken  broth  add  the  canned  tomatoes  and  the  finely  chopped  mild 
onion.  Let  this  sauce  cook  down.  In  the  meantime  prepare  the 
stuffing  by  cooking  and  mashing  the  potatoes  and  adding  to  them  the 
raisins  and  enough  milk  to  make  the  mixture  the  stiffness  of  ordinary 
mashed  potatoes.  Stuff  this,  while  still  hot,  into  the  body  cavity 
and  neck  of  the  fowl.  Crowd  in  all  the  stuffing  possible.  Pour  a 
little  melted  butter  over  the  chicken.  Put  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 
Thicken  the  tomato  sauce  to  the  consistency  of  a  gravy  and  add  2 
or  3  tablespoons  of  finely  chopped  parsley  and  green  pepper,  if  desired. 
When  the  chicken  and  the  surface  of  the  potato  stuffing  have  become 
delicately  brown,  place  on  a  large  hot  platter.  Pour  part  of  the  sauce 
around  the  chicken  and  serve  at  once. 


Draw  and  singe  the  turkey.  Remove  the  oil  sac  and  all  pinfeath- 
ers.  Cleanse  thoroughly  and  wipe  dry.  Rub  the  surface  over  with 
butter  and  a  little  salt.    Stuff  with  a  dressing  made  as  follows: 


CHRISTPvlAS  CHICKEN 


A  plump  fowl,   weighing  4  to  6 


2  tablespoons  chopped  onion. 
2  tablespoons  parsley. 
Flour. 
Butter. 

Salt  and  pepper. 


pounds. 
4  or  5  medium-sized  potatoes. 
1  cup  raisins,  without  seeds. 
3  cups  canned  tomatoes. 


ROAST  TURKEY 


6  cups  finely  broken  stale  bread 
2  teaspoons  salt. 
^  teaspoon  pepper. 

teaspoon  thyme. 

teaspoon  ground  sage. 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 


3^  pound  butter  or  an  equal  quantity 


of  turkey  fat. 
onion,  grated,  or  more  if  desired. 
4  stalks  celery,  chopped. 
}/2  cup  boiling  water. 


43 


Scissors  may  be  used  to  cut  up  the  stale  bread.  Cook  the  celery 
and  oniou  in  the  butter  five  minutes.  Mix  with  the  bread,  baking- 
powder,  seasonings,  and  hot  water.  Fill  the  cavity  of  the  turkey. 
If  a  moist  and  fluffy  rather  than  a  dry  dressing  is  preferred,  use  more 
water.  If  there  is  any  surplus,  it  may  be  cooked  in  a  separate  dish, 
basted  with  the  drippings  from  the  pan,  and  served  with  the  dinner, 

The  turkey  may  be  started  in  a  hot  oven  (400°  F.)  if  a  doable 
roasting  pan  is  used.  If  the  turkey  is  young  and  tender,  it  will  be 
done  in  \}/2  hours,  during  the  latter  part  of  which  the  temperature 
may  be  slightly  reduced.  A  large,  heavy,  or  old  bird  will  require 
considerably  longer  baking.  Keep  the  bottom  of  the  roasting  pan 
well  covered  with  water  during  roasting,  so  that  the  meat  will  not 
dry  out. 

GIBLET  GRAVY 

Save  the  giblets — heart,  liver,  and  gizzard — for  gravy.  Bake  in 
the  pan  beside  the  turkey  or  put  through  the  meat  chopper  and  sim- 
mer in  a  quart  of  water  while  the  turkey  is  baking.  Jvleasure  the 
liquid.  To  thicken  it,  use  2  tablespoons  of  flour  blended  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  turkey  fat  to  each  cup  of  liquid.  Stir  gradually 
into  the  hot  liquid.    Add  salt  and  pepper  according  to  taste. 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS 


APPLE  SALADS 

1 .  Select  medium-sized  apples,  pare,  and  core.  Cook  in  a  covered 
pan  in  enough  sirup  made  in  the  proportion  of  2  cups  water  and  1 
cup  sugar  to  cover  the  apples.  Red  cinnamon  candies  added  to  the 
sirup  give  the  apples  an  attractive  rose  color.  After  cooking,  chill 
the  apples  and  fill  with  cream  cheese  which  has  been  mixed  with  salt, 
paprika,  and  a  little  finely  chopped  green  pepper.  Or  form  the 
cheese  mixture  into  balls,  roll  in  ground  nuts,  and  place  beside  the 
apples.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

2.  Tart  apples,  celery,  and  boiled  chestnuts  or  black  v>'alnuts  or 
other  nuts.  Cut  the  apples  into  small  cubes.  Chop  the  celery.  Use 
about  one-fourth  the  quantity  of  boiled  chestnuts  or  black  walnuts 
as  of  apples.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

3.  Tart  apples,  cut  in  small  cubes;  malaga  grapes,  halved  and 
seeded;  and  a  little  chopped  pimiento.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayon- 
naise or  French  dressing. 

4.  Apples  cut  in  cubes  cooked  in  sirup  until  transparent.  Add  to 
the  sirup  half  a  lemon  and  a  small  piece  of  ginger  root.  When  the 
apples  are  done,  drain  and  chill.  When  they  are  firm,  add  a  little 
chopped  celery  and  cream  cheese.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise 
or  French  dressing. 

GRAPEFRUIT  SALAD 

Peel  the  grapefruit,  pull  it  apart  in  sections,  and  strip  the  skin 
and  pith  from  each  section.  Arrange  the  sections  on  lettuce,  sprinkle 
with  chopped  nuts,  and  garnish  with  a  little  pimiento.  Serve  with 
any  desired  dressing. 

This  salad  may  be  varied  by  combining  the  grapefruit  with  other 
fruits,  such  as  oranges,  dates,  and  pineapple. 

HONOLULU  SALAD 

Arrange  slices  of  raw  or  canned  pineapple  on  lettuce,  and  into  the 
center  of  each  slice  drop  a  ball  made  of  Neufchatel  or  cream  cheese 
mixed  with  chopped  nuts  or  green  pepper  or  pimiento  and  seasoned 
with  salt.  To  vary  this  salad,  after  the  pineapple  slices  are  arranged 
on  the  lettuce,  cover  them  with  the  cheese  pressed  through  a  potato 
ricer,  and  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt  and  paprika. 

NOVELTY  FRUIT  SALADS 


SUNBONNET  SUE 


5  halves  of  cooked  or  canned  pears     5  thin  slices  of  pimiento.  _ 

or  peaches.  5  tablespoons  salad  dressing. 

10  whole  cloves.  5  leaves  ciirl}'  lettuce. 

10  almonds. 

Arrange  the  halves  of  the  fruit  round  side  up  on  the  lettuce  leaves. 
The  leaf  curls  up  around  the  fruit  and  forms  the  sunbonnet.  Place 
■the  cloves  in  the  fruit  for  the  eyes,  the  blanched  almonds  for  the  ears, 


(44) 


45 


and  slip  thin  slices  of  canned  pimiento  into  cuts  made  for  nose  and 
month.  The  expressions  may  be  varied.  Put  salad  dressing  around 
the  outside  of  tlie  fruit,  to  represent  golden  locks,  and  arrange  a  bow 
of  red  pimiento  under  the  chin  of  Sunbonnet  Sue. 


CANDLE  SALAD 


Place  a  whole  slice  of  canned  phieapple  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Stick 
half  a  banana  upright  in  the  center  of  the  pineapple.  Top  the 
banana  with  a  red  cherry.  Garnish  with  j^cllow  salad  dressing  to 
represent  tallow  running  down  the  sides  of  a  lighted  candle. 


BUTTERFLY  SALAD 


Cut  a  slice  of  pineapple  in  half.  Place  the  curved  edges  opposite 
each  other,  with  a  date  between  them  to  represent  the  body  of  the 
butterfly.  Use  thin  strips  of  lettuce  for  the  antennaj.  Place  sliced, 
stuft'ed  olives,  bits  of  nuts,  and  drops  of  salad  dressing  on  the  pine- 
apple "wings." 

CABBAGE  SALAD  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM  DRESSING 


3  cups  shredded  greexi  cabbage. 
H  pint  double  cream. 

4  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 
12  drops  tabasco. 


IJ^  teaspoons  salt. 
114.  teaspoons  sugar. 
Scraped  onion. 

3  tablespoons  ground  horse-radish. 


Whip  the  cream,  add  the  seasoning  to  it,  and  combine  with  the 
cabbage  just  before  serving.  If  the  cream  is  added  to  the  cabbage 
and  allowed  to  stand,  the  juices  are  drawn  from  the  cabbage  and  the 
dressing  becomes  too  thin.  Serve  the  salad  very  cold.  This  is  very 
attractive  served  in  ahoUowed-out  head  of  red  or  curly  green  cabbage. 

CABBAGE  AND  CARROT  SALAD 

Use  equal  parts  of  grated  carrots  and  finely  shredded  cabbage. 
Mix  the  carrots  and  cabbage  together  with  salad  dressing  until  well 
blended.    Add  ground  peanuts  if  desired.    Serve  on  crisp  lettuce. 

CABBAGE  AND  ONION  SALAD 

Shred  the  cabbage  and  cut  the  onions  into  very  thin  rings.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  celery  salt,  pepper,  and  paprUca.  Mix  with  mayonnaise 
or  French  dressing  and  serve  on  a  cabbage  leaf. 

TOMATO  ASPIC  SALAD 


envelopes    or    3  tablespoons 
gelatin. 
1  ([uart  canned  tomatoes. 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  green 
pepper. 

2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  celery. 


1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 
1  cup  very  fin^y  shredded  cabbage. 
\}/2  teaspoons  salt. 

teaspoon  onion  juice. 
H  teaspoon  sugar. 


Soak  the  gelatin  in  a  small  quantity  of  water.  Boil  the  tomatoes 
for  5  minutes  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds. 
Pour  the  hot  tomato  juice  over  the  gelatin  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved. 
Add  the  salt  and  the  sugar  and  chill.  When  the  gelatin  mixture  is 
partly  set,  add  the  finely  shredded  vegetables  and  mix  well.  Add 


46 


more  salt  if  needed.  If  the  mixture  is  not  tart  enough,  add  a  little 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Pour  into  wet  custard  cups  and  place  in  the 
cold  until  set.  Turn  these  molds  out  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  serve 
with  mayonnaise. 

STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD 

Select  large  ripe  tomatoes,  one  for  each  person.  Peel  the  tomatoes, 
cut  a  round  piece  from  the  stem  end,  and  remove  enough  of  the  pulp 
to  leave  a  hollow  cup.  Season  inside  with  salt,  and  turn  the  tomatoes 
upside  down,  to  drain.  Then  place  them  in  the  ice  box,  until  ready  to 
serve.  Stuff  with  a  filling  made  of  chopped  meat,  such  as  chicken, 
veal,  or  tongue;  cooked  peas;  pickle  or  fresh  cucumber  chopped  fine; 
and  salad  dressing.  Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  so  the  flavors 
will  be  well  blended.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  salad  dressing. 

TOMATO-CHEESE  SALAD 

For  each  individual  serving,  arrange  3  slices  of  tomato  on  lettuce 
leaves.  In  the  center  make  a  mound  of  cottage  cheese,  which  has 
been  mixed  with  cream,  salt,  and  pepper.    Serve  with  salad  dressing. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD 

Arrange  stalks  of  fresh  cooked  or  canned  asparagus  on  a  lettuce 
leaf,  and  place  strips  of  red  pimiento  over  the  asparagus.  Serve  with 
salad  dressing. 

STUFFED  CELERY 

Cut  the  celery  into  pieces  convenient  for  handling.  Fill  the  hollow 
of  the  celery  stalks  with  cream  cheese  mixed  with  chopped  pimiento, 
green  pepper,  nuts,  olives,  or  a  combination  of  two  or  more  of  these. 
Serve  on  the  plate  with  another  salad  or  as  a  relish. 

POTATO  SALAD 

4  medium  sized  potatoes.  1  teaspoon  grated  onion  or  more. 

1  cup  finely  cut  celery.  cup  chopped  pickle. 

IJ^  teaspoons  salt.  1  cup  cooked  salad  dressing. 

Cook  the  potatoes  in  their  jackets  in  boiling  salted  water.  As  soon 
as  the  potatoes  are  tender,  but  not  soft,  drain  them  and  remove  the 
skins.  When  they  are  cold,  cut  the  potatoes  in  small  uniform  cubes 
and  pour  over  them  the  salad  dressing  while  it  is  hot.  The  potatoes 
absorb  the  hot  dressing  and  have  a  better  flavor.  When  cool  add  the 
celery,  and,  if  desired,  cucumber  and  green  pepper,  also  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Mix  together  lightly  to  avoid  breaking  the  potatoes  and 
making  them  mushy.  Chill  thoroughly  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD  COMBINATIONS 

1.  Beets,  onions,  celery,  cabbage. 

2.  Cabbage,  peanuts,  celery  or  celery  salt,  chopped  onion. 

3.  Raw  grated  rutabaga,  chopped  celery.  Place  the  grated  ruta- 
baga in  cheesecloth.  Squeeze  out  some  of  the  juice  before  combining 
with  the  celery. 


47 


4.  Raw  grated  carrots,  peas,  celery,  cabbage. 

5.  Kidney  beans,  celery,  chopped  onion  or  onion  juice,  chopped 
pickle. 

G.  Beets,  celery,  dill  pickle. 

CHEESE  SALADS 

Peaches,  pears,  or  cherries  combine  well  with  cream  or  Neufchatel 
cheese.  Fill  the  hollows  of  canned  peaches  or  pears  with  cheese,  plain, 
or  mixed  with  nuts,  dried  fruits,  or  one  of  the  chopped  salad  vege- 
tables.   Serve  on  lettuce  with  salad  dressing. 

Make  a  little  mound  of  the  cheese  on  the  lettuce  and  put  slices  of 
peaches  or  pears  around  it.  Large  white  canned  cherries  with  the 
pits  removed  or  stewed  dried  apricots  may  also  be  combined  with 
the  cheese. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 


A  fowl  weighing  about  5  pounds,  or    1  sliced  onion. 

2  smaller  fowls.  Salt. 
3  bunches  celery.  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

1  cup  mild  vinegar.  J  Lettuce. 

Simmer  the  chicken  until  tender  in  a  small  quantity  of  water. 
When  about  half  done,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Let  the  chicken  cool 
in  the  broth.  After  it  is  cold  remove  the  skin,  strip  the  meat  from 
the  bones,  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces  of  even  size.  In  the  meantime 
allow  a  few  slices  of  onion  to  soak  in  a  cup  of  mild  vinegar  to  give  the 
vinegar  a  slight  onion  flavor.  Remove  a  cup  of  chicken  fat  from  the 
cold  broth  and  mix  with  this  vinegar.  Pour  this  mixture  over  the 
chicken,  adding  more  salt  and  vinegar  if  needed  to  season  it  well.  A 
few  drops  of  tabasco  improve  it.  Let  this  stand,  ormarinate,  for  several 
hours,  or  overnight.  Cut  the  celery  stalks  and  some  of  the  tender  leaves 
into  small  pieces  and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place  until  crisp.  Mix 
enough  thick,  well-seasoned  mayonnaise  dressing  with  the  chicken 
to  coat  the  pieces  well.  Shortly  before  the  salad  is  to  be  served,  add 
the  celery  and  more  mayonnaise  if  needed.  Stir  the  mixture  lightly 
so  as  not  to  break  up  the  chicken.  Add  still  more  salt  if  needed.  Pile 
the  salad  lightly  on  crisp  lettuce  and  serve  at  once. 

If  desired,  add  3^  cup  of  capers  when  the  celery  and  chicken  are 
combined.  Hard-cooked  eggs  ma}^  be  used  as  a  garnish  orient  in 
pieces  and  mixed  with  the  chicken  to  make  it  go  further. 

COOKED  SALAD  DRESSING 


1  cup  mild  vinegar.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  2  eggs, 

teaspoon  salt. 

If  the  rinegar  is  not  mild,  it  should  be  weakened  by  substituting 
to  3^  cup  of  water  for  the  same  quantitj^  of  vinegar.  Hard 
cook  the  eggs.  While  they  are  still  warm  remove  the  shells  and 
rub  the  yolks  to  a  paste.  Add  the  dry  ingredients,  and  the  butter. 
Cream  these  together  thoroughly.  Add  the  heated  vinegar,  a  little 
at  a  time,  to  make  a  thin  paste.  Press  the  whites  through  a  ricer 
or  chop  them  very  fine  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Serve  on  lettuce 
or  other  salad  greens. 


48 


SOUR  CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING 


34  teaspoon  mustard. 

teaspoon  salt. 
yi  teaspoon  paprika. 
3^  tablespoon  sugar. 


2  eggs. 

yi  cup  vinegar. 
1  cup  sour  cream. 


Beat  the  eggs  until  very  light,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  thickened.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  beat  well.  If  this  dressing  is  cooked  properly,  it 
will  have  when  cool  a  thick,  smooth  consistency.  If  it  is  overcooked, 
so  that  there  is  a  tendency  to  separate,  it  should  be  strained  before 
cooling. 

CHEESE  DRESSING  FOR  SALADS 


1  Neufchatel  or  cream  cheese. 

cup  salad  oil. 
3  to  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 


Tabasco  sauce,  onion  juice,  a  bit 
of  garlic  or  grated  hoiseradish  for 
seasoning. 


Mash  up  the  cheese,  add  the  oil,  and  beat  with  a  Dover  egg  beater. 
The  mixture  curdles  at  this  point,  but  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
continue  to  beat  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  creamy.  Use 
this  dressing  in  the  same  way  as  any  other  salad  dressing.  For  fruit 
salads  it  is  particularly  delicious  if  whipped  cream  is  added. 

MAYONNAISE  VARIATIONS 

1.  Mayonnaise,  chopped  stuffed  olives,  and  finely  chopped  celery. 
Serve  this  with  a  crisp  green  salad. 

2.  Add  whipped  cream  to  mayonnaise  dressing  just  before  serving. 
This  is  very  good  with  fruit  salads. 

3.  One  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing  and  Yi  cup  of  chili  sauce  or 
catsup.  If  desired,  add  a  little  chopped  celery  or  green  pepper, 
or  pickle,  if  catsup  is  used. 


MUFFINS  AND  OTHER  QUICK  BREADS 


OATMEAL  MUFFINS 


1  cup  flour.  1  cup  milk. 

cups  rolled  oats.  1  egg. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

3^  teaspoon  salt. 

Grind  the  rolled  oat.s  through  the  fine  knife  of  the  meat  grinder, 
thus  making  a  fine  meal.  Combine  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the 
egg  and  add  the  milk.  Mix  the  dry  and  the  liquid  ingredients  to- 
gether and  stir  in  the  melted  butter.  Pour  the  batter  into  greased 
muffin  tins  and  bake  for  20  to  25  minutes  in  a  fairly  hot  oven. 


GRAHAM  MUFFINS 


1  cup  milk.  1  egg. 

1^2  cups  coarse  Graham  flour  or  1^  2  tablespoons  baking  powder, 

cups  more  finely  ground  Graham.  1  to  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

2  to  4  tablespoons  fat.  J/^  teaspoon  salt. 

Do  not  sift  the  Graham  flour  before  ineasuring.  Mix  all  the  dry 
ingredients  thoroughly.  Beat  the  egg  slightly  and  add  it  to  the  milk. 
Stir  the  combined  milk  and  egg  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the 
melted  butter  or  other  fat  last.  Bake  the  muffins  in  a  hot  oven 
(about  400°  to  425°  F.). 


CRANBERRY  MUFFINS 


3^  cup  melted  butter. 

cup  sugar. 
1  egg. 

%  cup  milk. 

34  teaspoon  salt. 


2  cups  sifted  flour. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  cranberries. 

2  tablespoons  sugar. 


Break  the  egg  into  a  mixing  bowl.  Beat  it  lightly.  Add  the  milk. 
Sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  milk  and  egg  mixture;  also  the 
melted  butter.  Roll  the  cranberries  in  the  2  tablespoons  of  sugar 
and  fold  them  carefully  into  the  batter.  Place  in  greased  muffin 
pans.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  }/2  hour,  or  until  brown. 

NUT  BREAD 


1  cup  milk.  .3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

214  cups  soft  wheat  flour.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg.  }/2  cup  chopped  pecan  nut  meats. 

Beat  the  egg,  add  the  milk  and  sugar.  Cover  the  nuts  with  two 
tablespoons  of  the  fl.our  and  sift  the  remainder  with  the  baking  powder 
and  the  salt.  Pour  the  liquid  mixture  into  the  dry  ingredients,  add 
the  nuts  and  the  melted  butter.  Bake  in  a  greased  bread  pan  at 
a  temperature  of  375°  F.  for  one  hour.  Allow  the  bread  to  cool 
before  cutting. 


50 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 


1  cup  corn  meal. 
1  cup  rye  meal. 
1  cup  Graham  flour. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 


^  cup  molasses. 

2  cups  sour  milk  and  IJ^  teaspoons 
soda,  or  cups  sweet  milk  and 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  molasses  and  the  milk. 
Beat  the  mixture  thoroughly.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  greased  tin  can 
or  mold  until  it  is  about  three-fourths  full.  Cover,  and  steam  for 
33^  hours.  Remove  the  cover,  and  bake  the  bread  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  3^  hour  to  dry  it  off.  If  the  bread  seems  likely  to  crumble 
loop  a  clean  string  around  the  loaf  and  cut  slices  by  pulling  the  ends 
of  the  string. 

QUICK  RAISIN  BREAD 


cups  flour. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
3^  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
4  tablespoons  butter,  melted. 


4  tablespoons  sugar. 

IJ^  cups  raisins,  chopped. 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  milk. 


Sift  the  salt,  cinnamon,  flour,  and  baking  powder  together.  Beat 
the  egg  and  add  the  milk  and  sugar.  Combine  the  liquid  and  the 
dry  ingredients.  Stir  in  the  raisins  until  well  mixed.  Place  the 
bread  in  a  greased  pan  and  let  it  stand  for  10  minutes.  Bake  at  a 
moderate  temperature  (about  350°  F.)  for  about  45  minutes. 


CORN  BREAD 


2  cups  corn  meal. 
2  cups  sour  milk. 

teaspoon  soda. 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


2  teaspoons  salt. 
2  eggs. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 


Sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  milk  and  the  soda  which  has 
been  dissolved  in  a  small  quantity  of  hot  water.  Add  the  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  the  butter.  Pour  into  a  very  hot,  well-buttered 
pan.  Bake  from  40  to  50  minutes  at  a  temperature  from  400°  to 
450°  F. 

SALLY  LUNN 


54  cup  milk. 
1  egg. 

J4  cup  water,  lukewarm. 
1  cake  veast. 


2  tablespoons  butter. 
\]/2  teaspoons  salt. 
2  tablespoons  sugar. 
2  cups  Hour. 


Scald  the  milk,  add  the  sugar,  salt,  and  butter,  and  allow  the 
mixture  to  cool.  Soften  the  yeast  in  the  water.  When  the  milk 
is  lukewarm  add  the  yeast,  the  beaten  egg,  and  the  flour  to  it.  Pour 
the  batter  into  a  buttered  pan  and  allow  it  to  rise  to  double  its  bulk. 
Sprinkle  the  top  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bake  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven.  ' 

SPOON  BREAD 


1  cup  corn  meal. 

2  cups  cold  water. 
1  cup  milk. 


2  or  3  eggs. 

2  tablespoons  butter  (melted). 
2  teaspoons  salt. 


Mix  the  meal,  water,  and  salt.  Boil  for  5  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly.   A  cup  of  milk  may  be  used  in  place  of  1  cup  of  water. 


51 


Add  tho  well-beaten  eggs,  the  milk,  the  melted  butter,  and  mix 
well.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  hot  pan  or  glass  baking  dish.  Bake 
for  45  to  50  minutes  at  a  temperature  of  400°  to  450°  F.  Servo 
with  a  spoon  from  the  pan  or  dish  in  which  the  bread  is  baked. 
Spoon  bread  is  soft  like  a  custard  or  souffle  and  has  a  rich,  delicious 
flavor. 

POP-OVERS 


(8  to  12  pop-overs) 


1  to  IH  eggs, 
teaspoon  salt. 


1  cup  milk. 

1  cuj)  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 
1  to  2  teaspoons  fat. 

Stir  the  liquid  slowly  into  the  dry  ingredients  to  avoid  forming 
lumps.  Fill  hot,  well-greased  muffin  pans,  preferably  iron  or  granite 
because  they  hold  the  heat,  not  more  than  half  full  of  batter  and 
place  at  once  in  a  hot  oven  (about  425°  F.).  After  about  20  minutes 
lower  the  temperature  to  about  350°  F.,  so  that  the  inside  of  the 
pop-overs  will  dry  out  a  little  without  making  the  crusts  too  hard 
and  brown.    Pop-overs  require  baking  about  45  minutes. 


WAFFLES 

IH  cups  milk.  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour.  IH  tablespoons  sugar. 

3  tablespoons  fat.  ^  teaspoon  salt. 
1  to  2.  eggs. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  milk  and  egg  yolks,  then  the 
melted  fat,  and  lastly  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Have  the 
waffle  iron  hot  enough  to  brown  the  w^affle  quickly  and  well  greased 
unless  it  is  the  electrically  heated  aluminum  kind.  In  that  case 
add  an  extra  tablespoon  of  melted  shortening  to  the  batter. 


PUDDINGS  AND  FROZEN  DESSERTS 


PEACH  DAINTY 


1  quart  sliced  peaches. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  egg  yolks. 


2  tal)!cspoons  butter. 
1  pint  whipping  cream. 
A  few  grains  salt. 


Cream  the  sugar,  butter,  and  yolks  together.  Add  the  whipped 
cream  and  sliced  peaches.    Serve  over  angel  or  sponge  cake. 


APRICOT  WHIP 


^2  pound  dried  apricots. 
1  cup  water. 
M  cup  sugar. 

Wash  the  apricots  through  several  waters  imtil  thoroughly  clean. 
Place  in  a  bowl  with  the  water  to  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning 
cook  the  apricots  in  the  water  in  which  they  soaked  for  about  15 
minutes  or  until  soft.  Press  the  cooked  apricots  through  a  colander, 
and  measure  the  pulp.  There  should  be  a  cupful  or  a  little  over. 
Heat  the  pulp  with  the  sugar  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  stirring 
all  the  time  to  prevent  scorching.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until 
very  light.  Add  the  salt  and  the  hot  apricot  pulp  in  small  quantities 
until  all  of  it  is  mixed  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  whipping  always 
in  the  same  way.  Place  the  mixture  in  a  greased  baking  dish  in  a 
pan  surrounded  by  water.  Bake  at  a  very  low  temperature  (from 
250°  to  275°  F.)  for  50  to  60  minutes.  When  baked  at  this  low  tem- 
perature for  this  length  of  time  the  pudding  should  not  fall  after 
cooling  or  when  served.  Serve  with  a  custard  sauce  made  from  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  or  with  plain  or  whipped  cream.  Or  if  preferred 
serve  the  apricot  whip  uncooked.  By  adding  the  hot  apricot  pulp 
to  the  egg  whites  the  raw  eggy  flavor  is  removed,  and  the  whip  may 
be  served  at  once. 


M  teaspoon  salt. 
5  egg  whites. 


PRUNE  WHIP 

}/2  pound  prunes.  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  water.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  or  more. 

3^  cup  sugar.  5  egg  whites. 

Wash  the  prunes  through  several  waters  until  thoroughly  clean. 
Place  in  a  bowl  with  the  water  to  soak  overnight.  In  the  morning 
cook  the  prunes  in  the  water  in  which  they  have  soaked  for  15 
minutes  or  until  tender.  Press  through  a  colander.  Measure  the 
pulp  and  juice.  There  should  be  one  cupful.  Place  the  pulp  with 
the  sugar  over  the  heat  and  stir  imtil  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Cool. 
Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  very  light.  Add  the  salt  and  the 
prune  pulp  in  small  quantities  until  all  of  it  has  been  mixed  with  the 
whites  of  eggs,  whipping  always  in  the  same  way.  Pile  the  mix- 
ture lightly  in  a  greased  baking  dish  surrounded  by  water,  and  place 
in  the  oven.  Bake  at  a  temperature  from  250°  to  275°  F.  for  50  to 
60  minutes.  When  baked  at  this  low  temperature  for  this  length 
of  time  the  pudding  should  not  fall  after  cooling.  Serve  with  cus- 
tard sauce  made  from  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 


(52) 


53 


COFFEE  GELATIN  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM 

2  tablespoons  gelatin.  I  1  quart  hot  coffee, 

cup  sugar.  I  Pinch  of  salt. 

Dissolve  the  gelatin  in  about  1  tablespoon  of  cold  water  and 
combine  it  with  the  sugar  and  hot  coffee.  Serve  with  whipped  cream 
or  with  plain  cream.  If  desired,  just  before  the  gelatin  sets  combine 
it  with  unwhipped  cream  and  let  stand  until  firm. 

ORANGE  GELATIN 

1  envelope,  or  1  ounce,  gelatin.  I  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice. 

234  cups  strained  orange  juice.  |  %  cup  sugar  or  less. 

Put  the  gelatin  into  ]/2  cup  of  cold  water  to  soften  for  about  2 
minutes.  Put  1  cup  of  water  on  to  heat  with  %  cup  of  sugar  or  less, 
depending  on  the  acidity  of  the  fruit.  When  the  sirup  is  boiling,  take 
it  from  the  stove  and  put  the  moistened  gelatin  into  it.  Stir  until 
the  gelatm  is  entirely  dissolved,  then  mix  v/ith  the  orange  and  lemon 
juice.  In  this  way  the  orange  juice  is  not  cooked  at  all.  Strain  and 
pour  into  molds,  and  put  in  a  cold  place  to  set.  Serve  with  or  with- 
out a  soft  custard  or  plaia  or  whipped  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  SOUFFLE 


3^  cup  sugar  34  teaspoon  salt. 

]/2  cup  fine  stale  bread  crumbs.  cup  milk. 

1  tablespoon  flour.  4  eggs. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  3^  teaspoon  vanilla. 

13^  squares  unsweetened  chocolate. 

Mix  the  flour  and  butter,  add  the  milk,  and  stir  over  heat  until 
thickened.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  steam,  and  add  to  the  cream 
sauce,  with  the  salt,  bread  cnimbs,  sugar,  and  well  beaten  egg  yolks. 
Beat  well.  Fold  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  into  a 
greased  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (325°  F.)  for  1 
hour,  or  until  well  set  in  the  middle.    Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. 


BLACKBERRY  FLUMMERY 


2  cups  blackberry  juice,  from  canned 
or  cooked  blackberries. 

3^  cup  sugar,  if  juice  is  unsweetened. 

3  tablespoons  farina,  or  4  tablespoons 
cornstarch. 


34  teaspoon  salt. 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice. 


Heat  the  blackberry  juice.  MLx  the  sugar  and  the  farma  or  corn- 
starch and  the  salt,  and  add  to  the  blackberry  juice.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  for  15  or  20  miimtes,  or  until  the  mixture  thickens  and 
the  raw  starchy  taste  disappears.  Remove  from  the  stove,  add  the 
lemon  juice,  and  beat  well.  Serve  the  flummery  cold  with  plain  or 
whipped  cream. 

PEACH  BAVARIAN  CREAM 


1  quart  sliced  peaches.  2  tablespoons  gelatin. 

1  cup  sugar.  3^  cup  cold  water. 

1  pint  whipping  cream.  34  teaspoon  salt. 

Soak  the  gelatiii  in  cold  water.  Masli  the  peaches  with  the  sugar 
and  rub  them  with  the  juice  through  a  sieve.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
and  simmer  for  5  minutes.    Remove  from  fire  and  add  the  gelatin. 


54 


and  stir  until  dissolved.  Chill,  and  when  the  mixture  begins  to 
thicken,  fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Place  in  wet  mold.  When 
set  serve  with  plain  cfr  whipped  cream. 

UPSIDE-DOWN  PINEAPPLE  CAKE 


PINEAPPLE  MIXTURE 


y<i  cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 


2  tablespoons  pineapple  juice 

3  slices  pineapple. 


Stir  the  sugar  in  a  smooth  frying  pan  until  it  is  melted,  then  allow 
it  to  brown.  Add  the  butter  and  the  pineapple  juice  and  cook  until  a 
fairly  thick  sirup  is  formed.  Place  the  sections  of  pineapple  in  the 
sirup  and  cook  for  1  or  2  minutes  or  until  they  are  light  brown,  turn- 
ing them  occasionally.  Plave  ready  a  well-greased  heavy  baking  pan 
or  a  baking  dish,  place  the  pineapple  on  the  bottom,  and  pour  the 
sirup  over  it.  Allow  this  to  cool  so  it  will  form  a  semisolid  surface, 
then  pour  in  the  following  cake  batter: 


CAKE  BATTER 


34  cup  butter. 
3^  cup  sugar. 
1  egg. 

3^2  cup  milk. 


IJ^  cups  soft  wheat  flour. 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Y?,  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  the  well-beaten  egg,  and  vanilla. 
Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  twice  and  add  alternately  with  the 
milk  to  the  butter,  sugar,  and  egg  mixture.  Pour  this  over  the  pine- 
apple. The  batter  is  rather  thick  and  may  need  to  be  smoothed  on 
top  with  a  knife.  Bake  slowly  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (300°  to 
325°  F.)  for  ^  of  an  hour.  Loosen  the  sides  of  the  cake,  turn  it  out 
carefully,  upside  down.  If  the  fruit  sticks  to  the  pan,  lift  it  out  and 
place  it  on  the  cake  in  the  place  where  it  should  be.  Serve  with  or 
without  whipped  cream  or  hard  sauce. 


UPSIDE-DOWN  APPLE  CAKE 


34  cup  butter. 
3^  cup  sugar. 


}/^  cup  milk. 

13^  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  to  4  apples,  depending  on  size. 


Cream  the  butter.  Add  the  sugar,  the  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
vanilla.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  twice  and  add  alternately 
with  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Use  a  square  or  oblong  baking 
dish  or  a  very  heavy  pan.  Put  a  thick  coating  of  butter  on  the  bot- 
tom and  sides  of  the  dish  or  pan.  Wash,  pare,  and  quarter  firm- 
fleshed  apples.  Slice  them  rather  thin,  and  place  them  so  that  the 
slices  overlap  and  form  even  layers,  covering  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 
Sprinkle  well  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  which  have  been  well  mixed. 
Add  another  layer  of  apples  placed  with  equal  care,  and  flavor  with 
cinnamon  and  sugar.  Pour  the  cake  mixture  over  the  apples.  The 
batter  is  rather  thick  and  may  need  to  be  smoothed  on  top  with  a 
knife.  Bake  slowly  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (at  a  temperature  from 
300°  to  325°  F.)  for  ^  of  an  hour.  Loosen  the  sides  of  the  cake, 
turning  it  out  carefully,  upside  down,  and  the  top  will  be  covered 
with  neat  layers  of  transparent  apples.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce 
or  whipped  cream. 


56 


CHOCOLATE  ICE-BOX  CAKE 
CUSTARD  MIXTURE 

1  pint  milk.  4  eggs. 

cake  unsweetened  chocolate  (34         cup  butter, 
pound).  teaspoon  salt. 

yi  cup  sugar.  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  the  sugar,  salt,  and 
milk.  Mix  well.  Separate  the  eggs.  When  the  milk  is  hot,  pour 
the  mixture  into  the  lightly  beaten  yolks.  Cook  until  thickened, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  the  butter,  beat  until  well  mixed,  and  fold 
this  custard  mixtm-e  into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Stir 
in  the  vanilla.  Chill  before  pouring  over  the  sponge  cake  made 
according  to  the  following  recipe: 


SPONGE  CAKE 


4  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  flour. 

3  tablespoons  cold  water. 


yi  teaspoon  salt, 
teaspoon  vanilla, 
teaspoon  lemon  juice. 


Separate  the  egg  j^olks  from  the  whites  and  beat  the  yolks  well. 
Graduallj^  beat  in  the  sugar,  using  a  Dover  egg  beater.  Add  the 
water  and  continue  the  beating  until  the  mixture  is  very  thick  and 
light.  vSift  the  diy  ingredients  together  and  then  fold  them  into  the 
egg  and  sugar  mixture.  Then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs,  and  add  the  flavoring.  Grease  a  tube  pan  slightly,  pour  in  the 
cake  batter,  and  bake  from  45  to  50  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven, 
at  a  temperature  of  325°  F. 

When  the  cake  is  cool,  split  it  into  three  sections,  beginning  at  the 
top.  Place  the  bottom  section  of  the  cake  in  the  tube  pan,  and  pour 
over  it  Y2  of  the  chocolate  custard  mixture.  Then  put  the  next 
section  in  place  and  pour  in  the  remainder  of  the  chocolate.  Cover 
with  the  top  layer.  Set  the  cake  in  the  ice  box  overnight,  or  for 
several  hours.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  onto  a  platter  and  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar,  or  fill  the  center  with  whipped  cream,  or  cover 
with  chocolate  icing. 

ORANGE  RUSSE 

Slice  the  oranges,  and  discard  as  much  of  the  "rag"  as  possible. 
Arrange  small  pieces  of  dry  sponge  cake  or  lady  fingers  around  the 
sides  of  individual  glass  dishes  or  cups  and  pile  the  oranges  in  the 
center.  Then  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  or  grated  coconut,  or 
pour  soft  custard  over  the  fruit.    Chill  thoroughly  before  serving. 


CUSTARD 


1  quart  milk. 
4  or  5  eggs. 


teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Heat  the  milk,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  eggs 
lightly  and  pour  slowly  into  them  some  of  the  heated  milk.  Pour 
back  into  the  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  until  the  custard 
coats  the  spoon.  Remove  at  once  and  place  the  pan  in  a  bowl  of 
cold  water,  stirring  until  cool.  Add  the  vanilla.  If  desired  the  cus- 
tard may  be  sprinkled  with  nutmeg. 


56 


A  floating  island  may  be  made  by  separating  the  eggs,  beating  the 
whites  well,  and  folding  them  on  top  of  the  custard  before  it  is  entirely 
cool. 

BAKED  CARAMEL  CUSTARD 


1  quart  milk. 
5  eggs. 

}/^  cup  sugar. 

3^  teaspoon  vanilla. 


4  tablespoons  caramel  sirup. 
yi  teaspoon  salt. 


Butter. 


Heat  the  milk  slightly  with  the  sugar,  salt,  and  caramel.  Be  sure 
the  caramel  is  entirely  dissolved  before  this  mixture  is  poured  into  the 
lightly  beaten  eggs.  Add  the  vanilla.  Pour  the  mixture  into  custard 
cups,  and  add  a  small  piece  of  butter  to  each.  Bake  in  a  pan  sur- 
rounded by  water  in  a  moderate  oven.  Test  by  placing  the  point  of 
a  knife  in  the  center  of  the  custard  and  if  it  comes  out  clean  remove 
the  cups  of  custard  at  once  from  the  hot  water.  The  custards  may  be 
served  either  hot  or  cold  with  caramel  sirup  if  more  of  the  caramel 
flavor  is  desired. 

Sugar  can  be  caramelized  easily  by  placing  it  in  a  heavy  skillet  over 
slow  even  heat,  and  stirring  it  constantly  until  it  melts  and  becomes 
a  heavy  brown  sirup.  As  soon  as  it  reaches  this  stage  take  it  from 
the  fire  at  once,  and  use  it  for  flavoring  and  sweetening  the  custard. 


PINEAPPLE  CUSTARD 


1  quart  milk. 
4  or  5  eggs. 
3^  cup  sugar. 


Yfi  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  cups  pineapple,  cut  in  small  pieces. 


Heat  the  milk,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  eggs 
lightly  and  pour  slowly  into  them  some  of  the  heated  milk.  Pour 
back  into  the  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  until  the  custard  coats 
the  spoon.  Remove  at  once,  and  stir  in  the  two  cups  of  pineapple, 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Place  the  custard  in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and 
stir  until  cool.    Add  the  vanilla. 


SPANISH  CREAM 


1  quart  milk.  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  granulated  gelatin.  5  eggs. 

4  tablespoons  cold  water.  Flavoring. 
}/2  cup  sugar. 


Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  until  soft.  Heat  the  milk  in  a 
double  boiler,  and  add  to  it  the  sugar  and  the  salt.  Beat  the  egg 
yolks,  and  gradually  add  the  hot  milk  to  them.  Mix  well,  pour  back 
into  the  double  boiler,  and  cook  this  mixture  until  it  thickens  like  a 
soft  custard.  Remove  it  from  the  fire,  add  the  softened  gelatin  to 
this  hot  mixture,  stir  well,  strain,  and  cool.  Meanwhile  beat  the  egg 
whites  until  fluffy.  Fold  them  into  the  custard  after  it  has  begun  to 
set  and  add  34  teaspoon  of  almond  extract,  or  any  other  desired 
flavoring.  Pour  into  individual  molds  or  a  pudding  dish  wet  with 
cold  water,  and  set  away  to  become  flrm.  Serve  with  cream  or  with 
a  sauce  of  crushed  fruit. 


57 


RHUBARB  BETTY 


1  quart  sweetened  rhubarb  sauce, 
or  1}^  quarts  raw  sliced  rhubarb, 
sugar  to  sweeteu. 


1  quart  fine,  dry  bread  crumbs. 
4  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
Cinnamon  or  nutmeg. 


Mix  the  butter  with  the  crumbs.  Place  the  rhubarb  and  the 
crumbs  in  alternate  layers  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  and  sift  the 
cinnamon  or  nutmeg  over  the  top.  Bake  the  pudding  in  a  moderate 
oven.  If  rhubarb  sauce  is  used,  this  will  require  about  15  minutes. 
If  raw  rhubarb  is  used,  cover  the  baking  disli  at  first  and  bake  for 
25  minutes  or  until  the  rhubarb  is  tender.  Serve  the  pudding  hot 
with  or  without  hard  sauce. 


CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 


4  cups  milk. 

squares  unsweetened  choco- 
late. 
3^  cup  sugar. 


6  level  tablespoons  cornstarch. 
}/^  teaspoon  salt. 
1  egg. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Mix  the  cornstarch  and  sugar.  Melt  the  chocolate  and  heat  it 
with  the  milk  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler.  Pour  some  of  this  warm 
milk  into  the  cornstarch  and  sugar.  Return  it  to  the  double  boiler, 
stirring  until  thickened;  then  cover  and  cook  for  about  20  minutes. 
Beat  the  egg  until  light,  and  after  pouring  the  hot  pudding  into  it, 
beat  well  again.  Add  the  vanilla  and  pour  at  once  into  a  wet  mold. 
Chill  thoroughly.  Serve  with  a  soft  custard,  cream,  or  whipped 
cream. 

CRANBERRY  PUDDING  SUPREME 


^  cup  butter. 
}4  cup  sugar. 
1  egg. 

cups  sifted  flour. 


teaspoons  baking  powder. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 
1  cup  milk. 

1  cup  raw  cranberries  or  more. 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  the  well-beaten  egg.  Mix  and 
sift  the  dry  ingredients,  saving  out  2  tablespoons  of  flour  for  the  cran- 
berries. Add  the  dry  ingredients  to  the  first  mixture  alternately 
with  the  milk.  Roll  the  cranberries  in  flour  and  add  them  last. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  mold,  cover,  and  steam  for  2  houre.  After  the 
pudding  has  steamed  it  may  be  placed  in  the  oven  to  brown  if  desired. 

SAUCE  FOR  CRANBERRY  PUDDING  SUPREME 


1  cup  sugar. 

3  tablespoons  cornstarch, 
teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  boiling  water. 


2  cups  cranberries. 

1  cup  water. 

2  to  4  tablespoons  butter. 


Mix  the  sugar,  cornstarch,  and  salt.  Add  the  2  cups  of  boiling 
water,  stir  until  thickened,  and  cook  for  10  minutes  in  a  double 
boiler.  Meanwhile  cook  the  cranberries  with  1  cup  of  water  until 
soft.  Press  them  through  a  fine  sieve  and  add  this  pulp  to  the  corn- 
starch mixture.  Add  the  butter  and  serve  hot  over  the  hot  cranberry 
pudding. 


58 


BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING 


6  cups  milk. 

3^  cup  corn  meaJ. 

}/2  cup  molasses. 


1  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  ginger. 


Cook  milk  and  meal  in  a  double  boiler  20  minutes;  add  the  molasses, 
salt,  and  ginger;  pour  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  for 
2  hours  in  slow  oven.    Serve  hot  with  cream  or  vanilla  ice  cream. 

PLUM  PUDDING 


1  pound  beef  suet. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 
9  eggs. 

1  pound  seeded  raisins,  chopped. 

1  pound  seedless  raisins. 

^  pound  citron,  cut  fine. 

1  cup  pecan  nut  meats,  cut  fine. 

1  cup  English  walnut  meats,  cut  fine. 


1  cup  cider. 

2  teaspoons  salt. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
6  teaspoons  cinnamon. 
4  teaspoons  cloves. 

teaspoons  mace. 
33^2  teaspoons  nutmeg. 
2]/2  teaspoons  allspice. 


Mix  the  ground  suet  with  the  sugar,  fruit,  nuts,  and  about  ^  cup 
of  the  flour.  Separate  the  eggs.  Beat  both  yolks  and  whites  well. 
Add  egg  j'^olks  to  the  suet  and  sugar.  Put  in  the  fruit  and  nuts  and 
then  the  cider.  Sift  together  twice  the  spices,  salt,  baking  powder, 
and  flour.  Add  these  dry  ingredients  to  the  first  mixture.  Then 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

Grease  well  tin  cans  of  No.  2  size  or  pound  baking  powder  cans  and 
put  in  enough  batter  to  fill  them  about  three-quarters  full.  Steam 
for  3  hours.  These  ingredients  will  fill  seven  No.  2  cans.  The  pud- 
ding will  keep  for  weeks  if  the  cans  are  covered  with  paper  or  with  the 
loose  can  tops.  Before  serving  set  the  can  in  boiling  water  for  about 
^  of  an  hour,  so  that  the  pudding  will  heat  through. 

Hard  sauce  made  of  butter  and  sugar  creamed  together  is  good  with 
this  pudding.  If  a  hard  sauce  that  is  a  little  different  is  desired  use 
brown  instead  of  white  sugar  and  grate  in  the  rind  of  an  orange  for 
flavoring.  Any  one  of  the  liquid  or  foamy  sauces  is  also  suitable  with 
plum  pudding.  Some  people  like  best  of  all  to  serve  a  spoonful  of 
vanilla  ice  cream  or  mousse  on  the  plate  with  the  hot  pudding. 

OLD-FASHIONED  CREAMY  RICE  PUDDING 


1  tablespoon  uncooked  rice. 
1  quart  milk, 
cup  sugar. 


teaspoon  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 
3^  cup  raisins,  if  desired. 


Wash  the  rice.  Add  the  other  ingredients.  Pour  the  mixture 
into  a  good-sized  baking  dish.  Cook  in  the  oven  slowly  for  two  or 
three  hours,  stirring  frequently.  If  allowed  to  cook  slowly,  the  milk 
thickens  to  a  creamy  consistency,  and  the  rice  sv/ells  to  several 
times  its  original  size.  If  double  the  quantity  of  rice  is  used  the 
mixture  does  not  require  such  long  cooking,  as  the  rice,  in  swelling, 
thickens  the  liquid  more  rapidly,  but  the  product  is  not  so  creamy. 


PRUNE  PUDDING 


2  Clips  water. 

pound  fh-ied  prunes. 

cup  sugar. 
2  eggs. 


2  tablespoons  sugar. 
2  tablespoons  cornstarch. 
^2  teaspoon  vanilla. 
14:  teaspoon  salt. 


Wash  the  prunes,  soak  overnight  in  the  water,  then  cook  them  in 
the  same  water  until  tender.  Remove  the  stones  and  cut  the  prunes 
in  small  pieces.  To  the  prunes  add  the  ^  cup  of  sugar,  the  salt, 
and  the  cornstarch,  which  has  been  mi.xed  with  some  of  the  prune 
juice.  Cook  for  20  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Pour  this  mixture 
into  the  egg  yolks,  add  the  vanilla  and  cinnamon,  and  mix  well. 
Place  in  a  greased  baking  dish  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  with 
the  ogg  whites  and  the  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  the  meringue  is  brown.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 


1  cup  flour. 

2  tablcsp(;ons  butter. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
14:  teaspoon  .salt. 


DATE  PUDDING 

eups  pitied  dates, 
cup  milk. 
1  cup  chopped  nuts. 
1  cuj)  sugar. 
3  eggs. 

Spice,  if  desired. 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  and  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  milk.  Sift 
the  dry  ingredients  and  add  them  to  the  liquid  mixtiu-e,  reserving 
enough  flour  to  coat  the  dates  and  nuts.  Add  them  and  the  vanilla. 
Bake  in  a  shallow  greased  pan  in  a  very  slow  oven  for  45  to  60  minutes, 
until  set  in  the  center.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

BANANA  PUDDING 


1  quart  milk. 

4  or  5  eggs. 

}/2  Clip  sugar. 

Sweet  crackers  or  cookies. 


teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Bananas. 


Heat  the  milk,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  egg 
yolks  lightly,  and  pour  slowdy  into  them  some  of  the  heated  milk. 
JPour  back  into  the  double  boiler,  and  stir  constantly  until  the  cus- 
tard coats  the  spoon.  Remove  at  once  from  the  fire,  place  the  pan 
in  a  bowl  of  cold  water,  and  stir  the  custard  until  cool.  Add  the 
vanilla.  Grease  a  baking  dish,  put  in  the  bottom  a  layer  of  sweet 
crackers,  and  slice  over  them  a  layer  of  banana.  Pour  over  this 
some  of  the  custard  and  fill  the  dish  about  three-quarters  full  with 
these  layers.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  1 
tablespoon  of  sugar  to  each  egg.  Spread  over  the  pudding  and  cook 
in  a  slow  oven  until  golden  brown.  Then  let  the  pudding  stand 
until  thoroughly  chilled  before  serving. 


BREAD  PUDDING 


4  cups  milk. 

1  cup  stale  diced  bread. 

1  cup  sugar. 

4  eggs. 


34  cup  butter  (melted). 
%  cup  seedless  raisins. 
34  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Separate  the  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  for  the  meringue.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  add  the  milk,  slightly  warmed,  the  sugar,  raisins,  salt,  and 
vanilla.  Grease  a  pudding  dish  or  any  flat  pan  and  put  in  a  layer  of 
the  diced  bread;  pour  the  custard  mixture  over  the  bread  and  add  the 
melted  butter.   Bake  in  a  pan  surrounded  by  water  in  a  slow  oven. 


60 


When  the  custard  mixture  is  set  in  the  center,  remove  the  pudding 
from  the  stove.  Let  cool  slightly  and  cover  with  the  meringue  made 
by  beating  the  egg  whites  until  stiff  and  adding  4  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  Yi  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Return  to  the  oven 
and  allow  the  meringue  to  heat  slowly  until  a  golden  brown.  Serve 
the  pudding  hot  or  cold. 

FRENCH  VANILIA  ICE  CREAM 


1  quart  milk. 

Y2  pint  double  cream. 

4  eggs. 


M  cup  sugar. 
}/i  teaspoon  salt. 
IJ^  teaspoons  vanilla. 


Prepare  as  for  custard  by  pouring  some  of  the  heated  milk  into  the 
lightly  beaten  eggs  and  then  cooking  the  milk  and  eggs  with  the 
sugar  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  custard  coats  the  spoon. 
Cool,  add  the  double  cream,  and  vanilla,  mix  well,  and  freeze.  For 
the  freezing  mixture  use  1  part  of  salt  to  4  to  6  parts  of  ice.  Turn 
the  crank  slowly  during  freezing.  Ijet  the  cream  stand  an  hour  or 
more  to  ripen  after  freezing. 


PEACH  ICE  CREAM 


2  cups  single  cream. 

3  cups  soft,  sliced  peaches. 
1  cup  sugar. 

Y%  teaspoon  salt. 


2  to  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 
depending  on  the  acidity  of  the 
peaches. 


Cover  the  sliced  peaches  with  the  sugar,  and  let  stand  for  a  short 
while.  Press  the  fruit  through  a  colander,  so  that  a  pulp  is  formed. 
Add  the  salt,  cream,  and  the  lemon  juice.  Use  a  freezing  mixture  of  1 
1  part  salt  and  4  to  6  parts  ice.  Turn  the  crank  of  the  freezer  slowly. 
After  freezing,  remove  the  dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice 
and  salt,  and  let  the  cream  stand  for  an  hour  or  more  to  ripen. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM 

2  quarts  strawberries. 

1  pint  double  cream. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Wash  and  cap  the  berries.  Chop  them,  cover  with  the  sugar,  and 
let  stand  in  the  refrigerator  for  two  or  three  hours.  Press  the  sweet- 
ened fruit  through  a  colander.  Add  the  cream  which  has  been  whipped 
and  the  salt,  and  freeze.  Use  a  freezing  mixture  of  1  part  salt  and 
4  to  6  parts  of  ice.  Turn  the  crank  of  the  freezer  slowly.  After  freez- 
ing, remove  the  dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice  and  salt,  and 
let  the  cream  stand  for  an  hour  or  more  to  ripen  in  flavor. 


teaspoon  salt. 
Lemon  juice  if  desired. 


IM  cups  orange  juice. 
134  cups  sugar, 
teaspoon  salt. 


ORANGE  SHERBET 

2  cups  milk  I      3  J  j^ji,^ 

1  cup  cream/  ^ 


cup  cream] 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 


Heat  one  cup  of  the  milk  and  add  the  sugar.  Stir  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Add  the  other  ingredients.  Use  a  freezing  mixture  of 
1  part  salt  and  4  to  6  parts  of  ice,  and  turn  the  crank  of  the  freezer 
slowly.  After  freezing,  remove  the  dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with 
more  ice  and  salt,  and  let  the  sherbet  stand  for  an  hour  or  more  to 
ripen  in  flavor. 

Lemon  sherbet  may  be  made  in  this  same  way  by  omitting  the 
orange  juice  and  using  enough  lemon  juice  to  give  the  desired  flavor. 


SAUCES 


DESSERT  SAUCES 
BUTTERSCOTCH  SAUCE 


2  tablespoons  butter. 
J-^  teaspoon  salt, 
teaspoon  vanilla. 


1  cup  boiling  water. 

1  cup  brown  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 
Speck  of  cinnamon. 

To  the  boiling  water  add  the  brown  sugar,  flour,  salt,  and  cinnamon, 
which  have  been  thoroughly  mixed  together.  Cook  until  the  flour 
has  lost  its  raw  taste  and  the  mixture  thickens,  stirring  continually 
to  prevent  lumping  and  sticking.  Beat  in  the  butter  and  the  vanilla. 
This  may  be  served  as  a  hot  sauce  on  ice  cream,  custards,  or  puddings. 

HARD  SAUCE 

cup  butter.  I  Yi  teaspoon  vanilla. 

^  cup  powdered  sugar.  I  Y%  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg. 

Cream  together  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  vanilla  and  nutmeg. 
The  secret  of  creamy  hard  sauce  lies  in  long  beating.  Chill  before 
serving.  For  variety  substitute  bro-»vn  sugar  and  flavor  with  the 
grated  rind  of  an  orange. 

SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  MEATS,  AND  VEGETABLES 
EGG  SAUCE 


2  tablespoons  flour. 
2  tablespoons  butter. 
1  cup  milk. 
yi  teaspoon  salt. 


2  eggs,  hard  cooked. 
Onion,  lemon  juice,  or  celery  can  be 
added. 


Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  and  blend  well.  Add 
the  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  thickened.  Chop  the  hard-cooked 
eggs  and  add  to  the  sauce.  A  well-beaten  egg  yolk  stirred  into  the 
mixture  after  it  is  taken  from  the  fire  makes  it  richer.  This  egg 
sauce  is  especially  good  served  over  simmered  fish. 

HOLLAND  A ISE  SAUCE 


1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 
A  little  cavenne. 


cup  butter. 
2  egg  yolks. 
J4  teaspoon  salt. 

Divide  the  butter  into  3  portions  and  put  1  piece  with  the  egg  yolks 
and  lemon  juice  in  the  upper  part  of  the  double  boiler.  Stir  con- 
stantly until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Remove  from  the  stove, 
add  the  second  piece  of  butter,  and  stir  rapidly  as  the  egg  continues 
to  thicken.  Then  add  the  last  piece  of  butter  and  continue  to  stir 
until  the  mixture  is  completely  blended.  Add  the  salt  and  cayenne. 
Serve  the  sauce  at  once. 

In  case  a  thinner  sauce  is  desired,  add  a  little  hot  water.  If  the 
sauce  separates  add  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  water,  milk,  or  cream,  place 
the  sauce  over  hot  water  for  a  few  seconds,  and  beat  it  well.  It 
will  become  smooth  again. 

(61) 


62 


SPANISH  OR  CREOLE  SAUCE 


2  cups  canned  tomatoes. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion. 

1  chopped  green  pepper  or  canned 
pimiento. 

cup  chopped  celery. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 


2  teaspoons  minced  parsley. 

4  tablespoons  minced  ham  or  bacon. 

1  bay  leaf. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


Add  the  onion  to  the  butter  and  cook  it  until  it  is  tender  and  yellow. 

Add  all  the  other  ingredients  except  the  minced  ham  or  bacon  and 
the  flour,  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Remove  the  bay  leaf.  Blend 
the  flour  with  a  little  melted  butter  and  add  to  the  sauce.  Cook 
for  5  or  10  minutes  longer,  add  the  ham  or  bacon,  and  serve  at  once. 

SAVORY  TOMATO  SAUCE 


2  cups  canned  tomatoes. 
4  tablespoons  butter. 
}/^  cup  grated  carrot. 
2  tablespoons  minced  onion. 
4  tablespoons  flour. 
3^  bay  leaf. 

Cook  vegetables  and  seasoning  in 
careful  not  to  brown  the  vegetables, 
that  it  mixes  in  with  the  fat.  Add 
and  heat  until  the  mixture  tliickens. 
minutes.    Strain  and  serve. 


yi  teaspoon  mustard. 
3^  teaspoon  summer  savory. 
%  teaspoon  salt. 
J4  teaspoon  pepper. 
1  cup  water. 


the  fat  for  2  minutes,  being 
Add  flour  after  1  minute  so 

tomato  juice,  salt,  and  water 
Place  over  hot  water  for  10 


PLAIN  TOMATO  SAUCE 


2  cups  canned  tomatoes. 
1  bay  leaf. 


>^  to  M  teaspoon  salt. 


1  teaspoon  sugar. 

2  slices  onion. 
2  cloves. 

2  allspice.  }/%  teaspoon  pepper. 

Cook  the  ingredients  for  10  minutes.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Measure  the  liquid.  For  each  cup  of  liquid  allow  2  tablespoons 
flour  and  2  tablespoons  butter.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour, 
and  when  they  are  thoroughly  blended  add  the  seasoned  tomato 
juice  and  stir  imtil  thickened.  Place  over  hot  water  for  5  or  10  min- 
utes.   Serve  hot  with  croquettes  or  meat  loaf. 


HORSEPtADISH  SAUCE 


cup  thick  cream. 
Yi  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  sugar. 


3  or  4  tablespoons  fresh  grated  horse- 
radish. 


Beat  the  cream  about  2  minutes.  Add  the  salt  and  sugar.  Beat 
in  the  horseradish.  Pour  over  cold  cooked  beets  or  serve  with  meat 
or  fish. 


PIES  AND  OTHER  PASTRIES 


PLAIN  PIE  CRUST 


IH  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 
53^  to  7  tablespoons  fat. 


About   2H  tablespoons  water,  or 

enough  to  make  stiff  dough. 
)/2  teaspoon  salt. 


Combine  the  fat  and  the  flour,  using  knives,  a  pastry  fork,  or  a 
biscuit  cutter,  so  that  the  ingredients  will  not  be  warmed  or  handled 
too  much.  The  tips  of  the  fingers  may  be  used  if  the  work  is  done 
quickljr.  Add  the  water  slowly  and  use  no  more  than  is  absolutely 
necessary.  Roll  the  dough  very  lightly.  If  the  lower  crust  is  baked 
separately,  the  oven  should  be  about  450°  F.  However,  a  pie  with 
a  filling  that  needs  to  be  cooked,  can  not  be  left  long  in  an  oven  as 
hot  as  this,  because  the  crust  bakes  too  fast  for  the  filling.  The 
temperature  should  be  high  to  start,  and  then  lowered  rapidly  after 
8  or  10  minutes  so  the  filling  may  cook  tlu-ough  without  overcooking 
the  crust. 


APPLE  PIE 


4  to  6  tart  cooking  apples. 

^  cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 


J^i  teaspoon  salt. 

teaspoon  cinnamon. 


Core  and  pare  the  apples  and  cut  in  slices  or  circles.  Line  a  deep 
pie  tin  with  pastry  and  pack  the  apples  carefully  so  that  the  cover 
will  fit.  Sprinkle  with  the  mixed  salt,  cinnamon,  and  sugar,  and  dot 
with  the  butter.  Place  on  the  upper  crust  after  moistening  the 
lower  rim,  and  press  the  edges  together  to  hold  in  the  juices.  Cut 
a  slit  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Bake  30  to  35  minutes  at  a  tem- 
perature of  450°  F.,  or  until  the  apples  are  tender. 


BUTTERSCOTCH  CREAM  PIE 

1  pint  hot  milk.  IH  tablespoons  butter. 

cup  cold  milk.  2  eggs. 

cup  flour.  *         3€  teaspoon  salt. 
5i  cup  brown  sugar.  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Blend  the  flour  and  salt  with  the  cold  milk,  add  to  the  hot  milk,  and 
cook  in  the  double  boiler  for  15  minutes.  Meantime  cook  the  brown 
sugar  and  butter  until  waxy,  and  add  to  the  mixture  in  the  double 
boiler.  Gradually  stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  cook  for  a  few  minutes, 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  ad,d  the  vanilla.  Line  a  pie  tin  with  pastry 
and  bake  until  golden  brown.  Pour  the  mixture  into  the  baked 
shell  and  when  slightly  set  cover  with  a  meringue  made  by  adding  2 
tablespoons  of  sugar  to  the  beaten  egg  whites,  and  a  little  salt  and 
vanilla.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  20  minutes,  or  until  the  meringue 
is  a  light  brown. 

This  butterscotch  cream  filling  is  also  good  served  as  a  pudding 
with  cream,  or  it  may  be  used  as  a  filling  for  cream  pufl^s  or  tarts. 

(63) 


64 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 


2  cups  milk. 

1  square  unsweetened  chocolate. 

2  eggs. 

6  tablespoons  sugar. 


tablespoons  cornstarch, 
teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  butter, 
teaspoon  vanilla. 


Melt  the  chocolate  over  steam  and  pour  into  it  the  scalded  milk. 
Mix  the  cornstarch  and  the  sugar  and  add  them  to  the  hot  mUk  and 
beat  until  smooth.  Allow  the  cornstarch  mixture  to  cook  in  the 
double  boiler  for  10  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  butter, 
salt,  and  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  and  the  vanilla.  Line  a  pie  tin  with 
pastry  and  bake  until  golden  brown.  Fill  the  baked  pie  crust  with 
the  mixture  and  cover  the  top  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  beaten 
egg  whites,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  34  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Bake  the  pie  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  20  minutes  or  until  the 
meringue  is  delicately  browned. 


CREAM  PIE 


2  cups  milk  or  cream. 
3^  cup  sugar. 
Salt. 


2  eggs. 

4  tablespoons  flour. 
Vanilla. 


Scald  the  milk  or  cream  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  the  flour,  sugar, 
and  salt,  well  mixed  together,  and  stir  constantly  until  the  mixture 
thickens.  Cook  for  10  minutes  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  vanilla. 
Beat  with  an  egg  beater  and  pour  into  a  baked  crust.  Make  a 
meringue  from  the  beaten  egg  whites  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
spread  over  the  top  and  place  in  a  very  slow  oven  for  20  minutes, 
until  well  browned. 

To  make  a  banana  cream  pie,  add  sliced  bananas  to  the  custard 
mixture  after  it  is  cooked. 


CUSTARD  PIE 


l}/2  cups  milk. 
}^  teaspoon  salt. 
3  eggs. 


34  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Put  the  milk  and  the  sugar  in  a  double  boiler  and  bring  to  the 
scalding  point.  Add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  salt,  and  flavoring.  In 
the  meantime  bake  a  pie  crust  in  a  deep  pie  pan  until  golden  brown. 
Pour  the  custard  into  the  baked  pie  crust  and  place  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven.  After  a  few  minutes  reduce  the  heat,  and  allow  the  pie 
to  bake  at  this  low  temperature  until  the  custard  is  set  in  the  center 
of  the  pie.  Custard  pie  made  in  this  way  should  have  a  crisp 
undercrust. 

FRESH  CHERRY  PIE 


2  cups  tart  pitted  cherries. 
^  to   1   cup   sugar,   according  to 
taste. 


3-^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  to  2  tablespoons  flour. 


Wash  and  pit  the  cherries.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan,  bring  to 
the  boiling  point,  and  simmer  for  5  minutes.  Drain  the  fruit,  and 
with  each  cup  of  cooled  juice  mix  2  tablespoons  of  flour.  Cook  tmtil 
thickened.    Add  the  sugar  and  the  cherries,  and  mix  well. 


65 


Line  a  deep  pie  tin  with  pastry,  and  bake  until  the  crust  is  golden 
brown.  Pour  in  the  hot  fruit  mixture,  moisten  the  rim  of  the  crust, 
and  place  the  uncooked  crust  over  the  fruit.  Turn  the  dough  well 
over  the  cooked  crust,  so  the  juice  will  not  escape  during  the  cooking. 
If  desired,  strips  of  dough  can  be  used  in  place  of  the  top  crust. 
Cook  the  pie  at  a  low  temperature  so  the  juice  will  not  boil  over. 


GREEN  TOMATO  PIE 

4  or  5  medium-sized  green  tomatoes.     IH  tablespoons  cornstarch. 
]/2  lemon  sliced  very  thin.  M  cup  sugar. 

teaspoon  cinnamon.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

teaspoon  salt. 

Slice  the  tomatoes.  Heat  slowly  in  a  saucepan  with  the  sugar, 
lemon,  salt,  and  spice,  until  the  tomatoes  are  tender.  Add  a  little 
water  if  the  tomatoes  are  not  juicy.  Melt  the  butter  and  combine 
with  the  cornstarch.  Add  this  to  the  tomato  mixture  and  cook 
until  the  cornstarch  does  not  taste  raw.  Line  a  pie  tin  with  pastry 
and  bake  this  crust  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until  a  delicate  color 
appears.  Put  the  tomato  filling  in  this  baked  crust;  moisten  the 
edge,  and  press  the  upper  crust  firmly  over  the  edge  of  the  baked 
lower  crust.  Bake  about  12  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  or  until  the  upper 
crust  is  brown. 

LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE 


1  cup  cold  water.  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

cup  sugar.  Grated  rind  of  H  lemon. 

3  taVilcspoons  cornstarch.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

3  eggs.  y%  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  cornstarch,  the  cold  water,  and  the  salt,  place  over  the 
fire,  and  stir  constantl}''  until  thickened.  Place  over  steam  until 
the  cornstarch  is  thoroughly  cooked — about  10  minutes.  Add  the 
sugar,  lemon  juice  and  rind,  the  butter,  and  the  beaten  egg  yolks. 
Cook  for  1  or  2  minutes  over  steam.  Line  a  pie  tin  with  pastry  and 
bake  until  delicately  browned.  Pour  the  mixture  into  the  baked 
pastr3^  shell  and  cover  with  the  meringue  made  by  thoroughly  beat- 
ing the  egg  whites  and  add  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt. 
Bake  at  a  low  temperature  (250°  F.)  for  20  minutes,  then  raise  the 
temperature  until  the  meringue  is  a  light  brown. 

RHUBARB  PIE 


3  cups  raw  sliced  rhubarb.  1  tablespoon  water. 

1  cup  sugar.  2}--^  tablespoons  flour. 

}/2  teaspoon  salt.  3  slices  orange. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  pastry  dough  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
delicately  browned.  Meanwhile  cook  the  rhubarb,  sugar,  salt,  and 
water  together  until  the  rhubarb  is  tender.  Remove  3  or  4  table- 
spoons of  the  juice  and  when  it  is  cool  mix  with  the  flour.  Cut  the 
orange  into  small  sections  and  add  to  the  rhubarb.  Pour  into  the 
baked  crust,  moisten  the  rim,  lay  the  top  crust  in  place,  and  tuck 
in  the  edges  carefully  so  that  the  juice  will  not  leak  out.  Bake  the 
pie  in  a  hot  oven  (about  450°  F.)  for  20  minutes. 


66 


SOUR  CREAM  PIE 


1  cup  sour  cream. 
1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  seeded  raisins,  cut  fine. 

2  eggs. 


}/2  teaspoon  powdered  cinnamon. 
3^  teaspoon  powdered  cloves. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 
2  tablespoons  vinegar. 


Beat  the  eggs.  Mix  the  spices  v^\\h  the  sugar,  and  add  to  the 
eggs  with  the  raisins,  cream,  salt,  and  vinegar.  Beat  vrell.  Pour  the 
jnixture  into  a  deep,  pastry-lined  pie  pan.  Moisten  the  outer  rim  of 
the  pastry,  and  press  the  top  crust  over  the  lower  one  to  hold  in  the 
custard.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  golden  brown. 

PUMPKIN  OR  SQUASH  PIE 


cups  cooked  pumpkin  or  squash. 
1  cup  milk. 

cup  sugar. 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
J/^  teaspoon  salt. 


3^  teaspoon  allspice. 
34  teaspoon  mace. 
2  eggs. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 


Put  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  eggs  and  the  butter,  in  the  double 
boiler.  Bring  to  the  scalding  point.  Beat  the  eggs  well;  add  them 
to  the  hot  mixture.  Stir  until  it  starts  to  thicken.  Add  the  butter. 
Line  a  pie  pan  with  pastry  and  bake  until  light  brown.  Pour  the 
hot  filling  into  the  baked  crust.  Bake  the  pie  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  until  the  filling  sets. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 


13^  cups  boiled,  riced,  sweet  pota- 
toes. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 
34  cup  sugar. 


\yi  cups  milk. 
Yi  teaspoon  ginger. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 
2  eggs. 


Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Line  a  pie  pan  with  pastry 
and  bake  until  light  brown.  Pour  in  the  sweet  potato  filling,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  filling  is  set. 


MINCEMEAT 


2  pounds  lean  beef. 

1  pound  chopped  suet. 
4  pounds  tart  apples. 

3  pounds  sugar. 

3  pounds  currants. 

2  pounds  raisins. 


1  nutmeg. 

3^  teaspoon  ground  mace. 

2  oranges. 
2  lemons. 

3^  pound  citron. 
1  tablespoon  salt. 


Stew  the  beef  in  a  very  little  water  until  tender.  Cool  the  meat 
and  chop.  Add  the  beef  suet,  chopped  fine,  and  the  pared,  cored,  and 
chopped  apples.  Carefully  pick  over,  wash,  and  dry  the  currants 
and  raisins.  To  them  add  the  sugar,  spices,  orange  and  lemon  juice, 
the  grated  rind  of  the  oranges  and  of  one  lemon,  the  chopped  citron, 
and  salt.  Mix  thoroughly.  Pack  in  a  stone  jar  and  keep  in  a  very 
cold  place,  just  above  freezing  if  possible.  The  mincemeat  should  be 
thoi'oughly  stirred  each  time  any  is  taken  out  and  occasionally 
moistened  with  a  little  grape  juice,  orange  juice,  or  left-over  canned 
fruit  juice. 


67 


CREAM  PUFFS 

H  ^'UP  butter.  4  eggs. 

1  cup  hot  water.  )/i  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  flour. 

Add  the  butter  to  the  hot  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and 
add  the  flour  and  salt,  all  at  one  time.  Stir  rapidly  and  constantly 
until  the  paste  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  when  cool  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  until  thoroughly 
blended  with  the  paste  mixture.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  greased 
baking  sheet  about  2  inches  apart.  During  baking  the  dough  expands 
to  twice  or  more  its  original  size.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  450°  to  475°  F. 
until  puffed  and  a  golden  brown.  When  cool  cut  and  fill  the  lower 
half  with  seasoned  whipped  cream,  crushed  fruit,  or  custard  mixture. 
Cover  with  the  other  half  of  the  puff  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar 
over  the  top.    This  quantity  makes  8  medium-sized  puffs. 


CUSTARD  FILLING  FOR  CRFAM  PUFFS 

1  cup  cream  or  rich  milk.  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch.  teaspoon  vanilla. 
2  tablespoons  sugar.  1  tablespoon  butter. 
2  egg  yolks. 

Heat  the  cream  or  milk  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler.  Mix 
the  cornstarch,  salt,  and  sugar,  and  pour  over  them  the  heated  cream 
or  milk.  Return  to  the  doiible  boiler,  stir  until  thickened,  then  cover 
and  cook  for  10  or  15  minutes.  Add  the  well  beaten  egg  yolks  and 
cook  for  a  minute  longer.  Beat  well,  add  the  vanilla  and  butter. 
When  cool  place  the  custard  mixture  in  the  puffs. 


PEACH  OR  APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

Roll  the  pastry  in  a  thin  sheet  and  cut  it  in  rounds.  Place  a  whole 
peeled  peach  or  cored  apple  in  the  center  of  each  round  of  pastry. 
Do  not  remove  the  stone  of  the  peach  — it  seems  to  give  the  dumpling 
an  extra  good  flavor.  Sprinkle  sugar  over  the  fruit,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bring  the  edges  of  the  pastry  together  over  the  peach  or  apple. 
Bake  in  muffin  pans,  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot,  the 
crust  will  brown  before  the  fruit  is  cooked  through.  Serve  hot  with 
hard  sauce  or  liquid  sauce. 

APPLE  TURNOVERS 

Cut  apples  in  slices.  Place  on  one-half  a  round  of  pastry.  Season 
with  butter,  cinnamon,  and  sugar.  Dampen  one  edge  of  the  pastry 
and  bring  the  other  edge  over  it.  Press  the  two  edges  together 
firmly,  about  half  an  inch  deep,  with  a  fork,  so  the  juice  will  not  ooze 
out.  Prick  the  top  crust  so  the  steam  can  escape,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven. 


68 


CHEESE  STRAWS 


1  cup  flour. 

3^  teaspoon  salt. 

4  tablespoons  fat. 


1  cup  grated  cheese. 

teaspoon  cayenne. 
3  tablespoons  water. 


Cut  the  flour,  salt,  fat,  and  one-half  of  the  cheese  together  with  a 
biscuit  cutter  until  the  mass  is  well  blended.  Add  the  water  and  mix 
well.  Toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board  and  roll  2  or  3  times  until  the 
dough  is  smooth.  Sprinkle  on  one-half  of  the  remainder  of  the  cheese 
and  roll  again.  Repeat  this  until  all  the  cheese  is  used.  Roll  the 
mass  out  imtil  about  3^  inch  thick.  Cut  in  strips  3^  inch  wide  and 
6  inches  long.  Place  the  strips  on  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  until  a 
delicate  brown,  in  a  moderate  oven,  about  400°F. 


CAKES,  COOKIES,  AND  CAKE  FROSTINGS 


FOUNDATION  CAKE 


1  cup  milk. 

3  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 


4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1}^  cups  sugar. 

teaspoon  salt. 
3^  teaspoon  flavoring. 


cup  fat. 
2  to  3  eggs. 


If  butter  or  other  fat  containing  water  is  used,  allow  about  Ij^ 
tablespoons  more. 

Combine  fat  and  sugar.  Stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolks  and  add 
alternately  the  dry  ingredients,  which  have  been  mixed  and  sifted 
together,  and  the  liquid.  Add  only  a  small  quantity  of  liquid  at 
first.  If  too  much  is  added  it  will  dissolve  the  sugar,  and  the  fat 
will  separate.  Add  the  flavoring.  Fold  in  the  well-beaten  egg  whites. 
Pour  the  batter  into  lightly  greased,  floured  pans,  taking  care  that 
it  is  spread  evenly.  If  the  cake  is  baked  in  a  thick  loaf,  the  oven 
temperature  should  be  very  moderate,  about  325°  F.  If  baked  as 
cup  cakes  or  in  thin  layers,  the  oven  should  be  about  375°  F.  This 
recipe  makes  two  thick  or  three  thin  layers. 


Make  the  caramel  by  slowly  bro\vning  1  cup  of  sugar  in  a  large 
heavy  ii'on  skillet.  Add  1  cup  of  boiling  water  and  cook  until  a 
thick  sirup  the  consistency  of  molasses  is  formed.  Be  sure  that  the 
sugar  heats  and  caramelizes  very  slowly;  otherwise  it  will  become 
hard  when  the  water  is  added. 

To  make  the  cake  mixture,  wann  the  fat  but  do  not  let  it  melt, 
combine  it  with  the  sugar,  stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  and  add 
alternately  the  dry  ingredients,  which  have  been  mixed,  and  the 
water.  If  butter  or  other  fat  containing  water  is  used,  add  1  }/2  table- 
spoons more  than  the  quantity  called  for.  If  fat  containing  no  water 
is  used,  Yi  cup  is  enough.  Add  the  thick  caramel  sirup,  and  at  the 
last  fold  in  the  well-beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  a  shallow  greased 
pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (about  375°  F.).  Or  if  preferred, 
bake  as  cup  cakes  in  muffin  pans  at  about  the  same  temperature. 
Ice  with  a  caramel-flavored  icing. 


Because  of  their  delicate  texture,  sponge  cakes  require  more  care- 
ful mixing  and  baking  than  other  cakes.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  beaten 
egg  yolks.  Then  add  half  the  salt  to  the  sifted  flour.  Add  the 
other  half  of  the  salt  to  the  egg  whites,  and  beat  them  stiff.  Fold 


CARAMEL,  OR  BURNT-SUGAR,  CAKE 


1  cup  water. 

3  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 
Yi  cup  fat. 

2  eggs. 


4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
cups  sugar, 
teaspoon  salt. 
4  tablespoons  caramel  sirup. 


SPONGE  CAKE 


1  cup  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 
4  or  5  eggs. 
1  cup  sugar. 


teaspoon  salt. 
3  teaspoons  lemon  juice. 
^  lemon  rind,-  grated. 


(69) 


70 

them  into  the  mixture,  and  add  the  flavoring  last.  For  beating  the 
eggs,  a  Dover  beater  gives  satisfactory  results,  and  requires  less  time 
and  energy  than  a  wire  whisk.  Pour  the  batter,  as  soon  as  it  is 
mixed,  into  smooth,  ungreased  baking  pans. 

For  a  large  or  medium-sized  loaf  a  tube  pan  is  best,  because  the 
center  opening  allows  the  mixture  to  heat  evenly.  Powdered  sugar 
may  be  sifted  over  the  top  to  make  the  crust  more  crisp.  The  oven 
should  be  ready  for  the  cake  as  soon  as  it  is  mixed  and  in  the  pan.  A 
large  or  medium-sized  sponge  cake  should  be  baked  slowly  at  about 
325°  F.,  small  cakes  at  somewhat  higher  temperature,  or  about 
340°  F.  When  the  cake  is  done,  it  wiU  be  lighter  if  brolien  apart 
with  the  fingers  or  a  fork,  than  if  cut  with  a  knife. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

1  cup  sifted  soft-wheat  flour.  teaspoon  salt. 

8  fairly  large  egg  whites.  1  teaspoon  flavoring. 

1  to  1  and  ]/2  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Sift  together,  4  or  5  times,  the  sugar,  flouT,  and  one-half  the  salt.  Beat 
the  egg  whites  with  the  other  half  of  the  salt  until  they  are  frothy. 
Add  the  cream  of  tartar  to  the  eggs,  and  beat  them  until  they  are 
light  but  not  dry.  Fold  the  dry  ingredients  very  carefully  into  the 
beaten  egg  whites.  When  the  mixture  is  partly  blended,  add  the 
flavoring.  Be  very  careful  when  blending  the  dry  ingredients  and 
the  eggs,  to  use  only  the  folding  motion,  for  if  the  mixture  is  stirred 
the  air  will  be  released  and  the  cake  will  not  be  light. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

3^  cup  butter.  15^  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2; eggs  (1  white  saved  for  icing).  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  milk.  ]/2  teaspoon  salt. 

2:  squares  unsweetened  chocolate. 

Cream  the  butter  and  the  sugar.  Add  the  well  beaten  eggs  and 
mix  well.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients,  and  add  to  the  first  mixture 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  the  chocolate,  which  has  been 
melted  over  steam,  and  the  vanilla  and  beat  until  well  mixed  with 
the  batter.  Bake  in  a  greased  pan,  in  a  sheet,  for  35  minutes,  at  a 
temperature  between  300°  to  325°  F.  Cover  lightly  v/ith  powdered 
sugar  and  serve.  Or  if  preferred,  bake  the  cake  in  two  layers  and 
ice  with  vanilla  frosting. 

In  this  cake  mixture,  sour  milk  may  be  used  in  place  of  sweet 
milk.  In  this  case  dissolve  Y2  teaspoon  soda  in  1  teaspoon  water 
and  add  at  the  same  time  with  the  sour  milk.  The  chocolate  may 
also  be  increased  by  1  square,  if  a  strong  chocolate  flavor  is  desired. 

COFFEE  CAKE 


2  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 
4  tablespoons  butter. 
}/2  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  sugar. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


cup  cut  citron  or  other  candied 
fruit. 

3^  cup  raisins,  chopped. 
^2  cup  milk. 


Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients,  saving  out  2  tablespoons  of 
flour  to  rhix  with  the  fruit.  Cut  in  the  butter  with  a  biscuit  cutter 
or  two  sharp  knives.    Add  the  milk  and  the  floured  fruit.  Place 


71 


the  dough  in  a  greased  pan,  pat  it  down  until  it  is  about  \]/^  or  2 
inches  thick.  Bake  35  to  40  minutes  in  a  medium  oven.  Because 
of  the  fioiit  this  coffee  cake  should  be  cooked  more  slowly  than  bis- 
cuits. When  the  coffee  cake  is  done,  butter  the  top  and  pour  over 
it  a  mixture  of  34  cup  finely  chopped  nuts,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
and  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Place  the  cake  m  the  oven  again  and  let 
it  remain  until  the  sugar  is  slightly  melted.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 


SPICE  CAKE 


IJ^  Clips  sugar. 
%  cup  butter. 
3  eggs. 

3  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 
5^  cup  coffee. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


1  teaspoon  salt. 
l}/2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 
]/2  teaspoon  nutmeg. 
J4  teaspoon  cloves. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat 
well.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  them  to  the  liquid 
mixture.  Add  the  vanilla.  Bake  either  in  a  loaf  or  in  layers.  Ice 
with  vanilla  frosting.    (See  recipe.) 

APPLE-SAUCE  CAKE 


1  cup  sugar, 
cup  fat. 

1  cup  apple  sauce,  unsweetened. 

1  cup  raisins,  chopped. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 
^  teaspoon  cloves. 


]/2  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
14,  teaspoon  nutmeg. 
23^  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 
1  teaspoon  soda  mixed  with  2  table- 
spoons water. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 


Cream  the  sugar  and  fat,  add  the  apple  sauce  and  the  soda  wliich 
has  been  dissolved  in  the  water.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients 
and  add  them,  with  the  floured  raisins,  to  the  first  mixture.  Beat 
well,  pour  into  a  greased  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (300°  to 
350°  F.)  for  about  1  hour. 

Tart  apples  should  be  used  for  the  sauce.  It  should  be  cooked 
down  so  that  it  is  not  watery  and  put  through  a  colander  to  make  it 
smooth.    No  sugar  should  be  added  to  the  apple  sauce. 

BREAD-CRUMB  CAKE 


1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  crumbs,  from  very  dry  oven- 
toasted  bread. 

3  eggs. 


1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

]4:  teaspoon  salt. 

34  teaspoon  almond  extract. 

34  teaspoon  cinnamon. 


Beat  the  eggs  well,  add  the  sugar,  and  stir  in  the  other  ingredients. 
Pat  the  mixture  evenly  in  a  shallow  greased  pan.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  from  30  to  40  minutes.  This  has  somewhat  the  texture  and 
flavor  of  macaroons,  and  is  a  good  way  to  use  up  stale  bread. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  CAKES 


4  tablespoons  peanut  butter. 
2  tablespoons  butter. 

cup  sugar. 
1  egg. 

3^  cup  milk. 


\}/2  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
34  teaspoon  salt. 
3^  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Mix  the  butter,  peanut  butter,  and  sugar  well.  Add  the  beaten 
egg  and  the  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  the  milk.  Add 
the  vanilla.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
about  20  minutes. 


72 


1  pound  raisins. 
1  pound  currants. 
M  pound  citron. 
}/2  pound  butter. 
1  cup  chopped  nuts. 
4  cups  flour. 
1  cup  sugar, 
cup  cider. 


FRUIT  CAKE 

}/2  cup  tart  jelly. 
}/i  cup  sour  cream. 
}/2  teaspoon  soda. 

teaspoon  salt. 
1  cup  molasses. 
5  eggs. 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon. 
}/2  teaspoon  nutmeg. 


Prepare  all  the  fruit  before  mixing  it.  Cut  the  citron  into  very 
small  pieces.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Separate  the  eggs,  and 
add  the  yolks  after  the  butter  and  sugar  are  blended.  Add  the 
liquids— cider,  jelly,  sour  cream,  and  molasses.  Mix  the  salt,  soda, 
and  spices  with  one-half  the  flour.  Mix  the  other  half  of  the  flour 
with  the  fruit  and  nuts.  Add  the  dry  ingredients  gradually  to  the 
liquid  ingredients,  then  the  floured  fruit,  and  last  the  whites  of  the 
eggs.  If  the  fruit  is  well  covered  with  flour,  it  will  be  scattered 
through  the  cake,  and  will  not  settle  to  the  bottom. 

Bake  the  cake  in  a  tube  pan  lined  with  greased  paper  in  a  slow  oven 
(275°  to  300°  F.).  A  low  fire  allows  the  heat  to  penetrate  the  cake 
mixture  slowly  and  does  not  dry  it  out  or  burn  the  crust. 

If  the  recipe  for  this  fruit  cake  is  doubled,  it  should  be  baked  ia 
two  pans.  It  is  better  to  bake  fruit  cakes  in  medium-sized  loaves 
rather  than  in  large  loaves. 

GINGERBREAD  (TWO  THIN  LOAVES) 


1  cup  milk. 

33^  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 
3^  cup  fat. 

1  egg- 

teaspoon  soda. 
4  teaspoons  baking  powde 


cup  sugar. 
1  cup  molasses. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  ginger. 
3^  teaspoon  cloves. 
3^  teaspoon  cinnamon. 


der. 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Stir  the  liquid  into  the  dry 
ingredients.  For  a  shallow  loaf  the  oven  should  be  moderate  (about 
375°) ;  if  muffin  pans  are  used,  the  oven  should  be  fairly  hot,  or  about 
400°  F.  _ 

In  this  recipe  sour  milk  may  be  used  instead  of  sweet  in  the  same 
quantity.  In  that  case  the  soda  should  be  increased  to  a  scant  tea- 
spoon, and  the  baking  power  decreased  to  2  teaspoons. 

CHEESE  FILLING  FOR  GINGERBREAD 


3^  teaspoon  salt. 
Cream. 


2  Neufchatel  or  cream  cheeses. 
2  cups  chopped  dates. 
1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Mash  the  cheese  and  mix  with  it  enough  cream  to  give  it  the  con- 
sistency of  a  soft  filling.  Add  the  dates,  nuts,  and  salt,  and  mix  well. 
Split  open  a  thick  loaf  of  hot  gingerbread,  spread  the  cheese  mixture 
on  the  lower  half,  replace  the  upper  part  and  press  it  down  lightly. 
The  quantity  of  cheese  filling  given  here  is  enough  for  a  loaf  of  ginger- 
bread about  8  by  10  inches.   Serve  the  gingerbread  while  still  hot. 


73 


CHOCOLATE  DROP  COOKIES 


14.  cup  butter. 
1  cup  sugar. 

1  egg. 

}/2  cup  milk. 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate. 


\}/2  cups  sifted  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

J4  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  chopped  nuts. 


Melt  the  chocolate  and  add  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  egg 
without  beating  and  the  milk.  Use  2  tablespoons  of  the  flour  to  coat 
the  chopped  nuts.  Then  add  the  nuts  and  the  sifted  dry  ingredients 
to  the  liquid  mixture.  Stir  this  thoroughly  and  add  the  vanilla. 
Drop  the  batter  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  greased  baking  sheet  or  an 
ordinary  baking  pan,  inverted.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  (about  375° 
to  400°  F.).  If  desired,  spread  the  cookies  while  hot  with  white  or 
chocolate  frosting,  so  the  tops  are  covered  with  a  thin  coating  of  the 
icing. 

ORANGE  DROP  COOKIES 


2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar. 

4  tablespoons  butter. 

H  teaspoon  salt. 


4  tablespoons  orange  juice. 
2  eggs. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  tablespoons  grated  orange  rind. 


Cream  together  the  grated  rind  of  the  orange  and  the  butter. 
Gradually  beat  in  the  sugar,  the  beaten  eggs  and  the  orange  juice. 
Add  the  flour  and  baking  power  which  have  been  mixed  together. 
Drop  the  batter  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  a  greased  baking  sheet  or  an 
inverted  pan  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  ^ 

OATMEAL  DROP  COOKIES 


H  cup  fat. 
1  cup  sugar. 
]/2  cup  milk. 
1  cup  raisins. 

14  cup  chopped  nut  meats. 

teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1  tea- 
spoon water. 


cups  fine  oatmeal. 
IH  cups  flour. 

1  egg. 

H  teaspoon  salt. 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 


Cream  the  fat  and  sugar,  and  add  the  beaten  egg.  Sift  the  dry  ingre- 
dients, except  the  oatmeal,  together  and  add  with  the  milk  to  the  egg, 
sugar,  and  butter  mixture.  Add  the  soda  which  has  been  dissolved 
in  the  water,  and  then  the  oatmeal  which  has  been  mixed  with  the 
nuts  and  raisins.  Mix  well.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  a  greased 
baking  sheet  and  bake  to  a  golden  brown  in  a  fairly  hot  oven.  Remove 
from  the  pan  while  hot. 

MACAROONS 


2  egg  whites. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  of  a  flaked  toasted  breakfast 

food. 


teaspoon  salt. 
1  cup  shredded  coconut. 
Almond  flavoring. 


Beat  the  egg  whites  with  the  salt  until  stiff.  Add  the  sugar  and 
beat  thoroughly.  Fold  in  the  coconut  and  toasted  flakes  which 
have  been  crushed  in  the  hands.  Add  the  flavoring.  Place  by  tea- 
spoonfuls on  oiled  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  20 
minutes,  or  until  delicately  browned  and  well  set. 


74 


BEST  EVERS  (COOKIES) 


}/2  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  egg  yolks. 

2  tablespoons  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 


1  cup  seeded  raisins. 

1  cfup  dry,  shredded  coconut. 

2  egg  whites. 

2  teaspoons  vanilla. 
2  or  3  cups  flaked,  toasted  breakfast 
food. 


Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Use  one  rounding  tea- 
spoon of  the  raixture  for  each  cookie.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  but- 
tered sheet  }/2  inch  apart.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Watch  closely, 
for  they  burn  easily.  Remove  from  the  pan  while  hot.  This  makes 
about  65  cookies. 


SCOTCH  WAFERS 


2  cups  rolled  oats. 
1  cup  wheat  flour. 

cup  sugar. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

3  tablespoons  fat. 
M  cup  milk. 


Mix  the  dry  ingredients  in  a  bov/1,  add  the  fat,  and  mix  together 
thoroughly.  Add  enough  milk  to  make  a  dough  sufficiently  hard  to 
roll  (about  of  a  cup).  Knead  this  dough  well;  roll  very  thin,  and 
cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  When 
cool  the  wafers  should  be  very  crisp.  Raisins  may  be  added.  In 
that  case  chop  them  very  fine  and  if  necessary  use  a  little  more  flour 
in  rolling;  out  the  wafers.^ 


BROWNIES 


3^  cup  butter. 
2  ounces  or.  squares 

chocolate. 
2  eggs. 

1  cup  finely  chopped  nuts. 


unsweetened 


1  cup  flour. 
1  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
}/2  teaspoon  salt. 
}/2  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Melt  the  butter  and  chocolate  together.  Beat  the  eggs  lightly, 
add  the  sugar,  and  stir  until  it  dissolves,  and  add  the  chopped  nuts 
which  have  been  mixed  v/ith  the  flour.  Stir  in  the  melted  butter 
and  chocolate  after  they  have  cooled.  Pour  into  a  warmed  pan 
which  has  been  greased  and  lined  with  greased  paper.  Spread  the 
mixture  evenly  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (-325°  to  375°  F.)  for 
40  or  45  minutes.  Turn  from  the  pan  and  remove  the  paper  from 
the  cake  while  it  is  hot.  If  this  is  not  done,  the  paper  will  stick. 
Cut  the  cake  into  strips  a  little  more  than  1  incli  wide  and  about  3 
Brownies  will  keep  fresh  for  some  time  in  a  tin  box. 


inches  long 


ROCKS 


cups  light  brown  sugar. 
1  cup  butter. 
3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

teaspoon   soda  in   a  little 
water. 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
3  cups  raisins,  chopped. 
1  cup  English  walnut  meats,  chopped, 
hot    254  cups  flour. 
^2  teaspoon  salt. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  add  the  eggs.  Sift  the  dry 
ingredients,  reserving  some  flour  to  roll  the  raisins  and  nuts.  Mix 
all  together.  Place  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.    As  flour  varies  so  much,  it  would  be  wise  to  bake  a  sample, 


75 


and  if  it  ™ns  add  from  }^  to  }4  cup  more  of  flour.  Sometimes  how- 
ever, when  drop  cakes  spread  out  too  much  in  baking  the  fault  is 
that  the  oven  is  not  hot  enough  rather  than  that  the  mixture  is  too 
soft.  Drop  cakes  need  a  rather  hot  oven  so  that  they  set  quickly^ 
and  hold  their  shape.  They  also  bake  better  on  a  baking  sheet  with- 
out high  sides  or  on  an  inverted  pan. 


VANILLA  FROSTING 


1  cup  sugar. 

4  tablespoons  cold  water. 
1  egg  white. 


teaspoon  salt. 
H  teaspoon  vanilUa. 


Put  the  sugar,  water,  and  unbeaten  egg  white  into  the  upper  part 
of  a  double  boiler.  Have  the  water  in  the  lower  part  boiling.  Com- 
mence boating  the  mixture  with  a  Dover  beater  at  once  and  beat 
constantly  while  it  cooks  for  7  or  8  minutes.  It  should  then  look 
just  lil^e  ordinaiy  boiled  frosting  and  should  be  almost  thick  enough 
to  spread.  Take  it  from  the  stove  and  continue  to  beat  about  5 
minutes  or  until  it  has  thickened.  This  is  sufficient  to  ice  a  three- 
layer  cake  on  the  tops. 

If  the  icing  is  not  sufficiently  cooked  place  it  in  the  double  boiler 
and  recook  for  a  short  time;  or,  if  it  is  too  stiff,  add  a  small  quantity 
of  water  and  cook  again. 

CARAMEL  FROSTING 

Caramelize  3^  cup  of  sugar;  then  add  a  few  tablespoons  of  boiling 
water.  A  thin  dark  sirup  should  result.  Substitute  about  2  table- 
spoons of  this  sirup  in  place  of  2  tablespoons  of  water  or  such  amoimt 
as  will  produce  the  desired  flavor,  and  continue  as  ia  vanilla  frostmg. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

Melt  2}/2  oimce  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate  and  pour  into 
the  vanilla  frosting  just  before  removing  it  from  the  stove.  Beat 
until  thick  and  then  spread. 


UNCOOKED  ORANGE  ICING 


1  cup  confectioner's  xxxx  sugar.  I  2  tablespoons  fresh  orange  juice. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  J  Grated  rind  of  1  orange. 

Cream  the  butter.  Add  the  sugar  and  orange  juice  gradually, 
beating  uiitU  the  mixture  is  soft  and  creamy.    Use  at  once. 


CONFECTIONS 


FONDANT 

2  cups  granulated  sugar.  I  3^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

%  cup  boiling  water.  I 

Put  the  sugar,  water,  and  cream  of  tartar  into  a  saucepan  over  a 
hot  fire.  Stir  constantly  until,  but  not  after,  the  sugar  has  dissolved. 
Do  not  splash  the  sirup.  Remove  the  spoon  and  do  not  use  it  again 
after  the  sirup  boils.  Remove  the  sugar  grains  or  the  crystals  with 
a  dampened  brush  or  a  clean  wet  cloth.  Cover  the  pan  for  a  few 
minutes.  Let  the  sirup  boil  until  it  reaches  a  temperature  of  235° 
F.  or  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Be 
sure  the  bulb  of  the  thermometer  is  covered  and  does  not  touch  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  Pour  the  sirup  in  a  thin  sheet  onto  a  chilled 
platter  so  it  will  cool  quickly.  Do  not  scrape  out  the  saucepan. 
When  the  sirup  is  cool,  work  it  until  it  creams  with  a  flat  wooden 
spoon.  When  it  forms  a  soft  solid  ball,  work  it  with  the  palms  of 
the  hands  in  the  same  way  as  bread  dough  until  it  is  smooth. 

Place  the  fondant  in  an  earthenware  or  glass  dish.  Wet  a  clean 
cloth  in  hot  water,  wring  out  well,  and  lay  over  the  top  of  the  candy. 
After  about  24  hours  the  fondant  is  ready  to  mold.  Fondant  made 
in  this  way  will  keep  for  months  in  a  cold  place  if  covered  with  a 
moist  cloth  or  stored  in  a  tightly  covered  jar. 

The  following  are  a  few  of  the  ways  in  which  fondant  may  be  used: 

Form  the  fondant  into  small  balls  with  the  palms  of  the  hands 
and  press  halves  of  walnut,  pecan,  or  other  nut  kernels  into  them; 
or  roll  the  balls  into  finely  chopped  nuts  or  shredded  coconut  or 
work  these  into  the  fondant  before  forming  it  into  balls.  Irregular 
shaped  balls  of  fondant  may  be  rolled  in  cinnamon  for  "cinnamon 
potatoes."  Gouge  out  "eyes"  to  make  them  more  realistic.  Can- 
died fruits,  such  as  cherries,  pineapple,  cranberries,  grapefruit  peel, 
and  citron  may  be  used  in  the  center  of  fondant  balls  or  pressed  into 
the  surface. 

With  or  without  added  nut  meats  fondant  may  be  used  to  stuff 
dates  or  prunes. 

Fondant  may  be  melted  and  used  to  cover  various  kinds  of  fruits 
such  as  strawberries  and  white  grapes.  Firm  fruits  with  unbroken 
skins  should  be  used  for  this  purpose,  and  a  little  of  the  stem  should 
be  left  on  them.  They  should  be  dipped  very  quickly  into  the 
melted  fondant. 

Fondant  may  also  be  melted,  flavored  with  oil  of  peppermint,  oil 
of  wintergreen,  oil  of  roses,  vanilla,  or  almond  extract,  and  dropped 
from  a  teaspoon  onto  waxed  paper  to  make  wafers  about  the  size  of 
a  quarter.  After  they  become  hardened  they  may  be  dipped  in 
chocolate.  In  fact,  practically  any  of  the  fondant  candies  may  be 
coated  with  chocolate  in  the  following  Avay: 

Melt  the  commercial  chocolate  prepared  for  this  purpose  in  a 
double  boiler.  Be  careful  not  to  let  the  water  in  the  lower  part 
boil,  for  this  makes  the  chocolate  coating  streaked  when  it  hardens. 
With  a  two-tined  fork  lower  the  fondant  candies,  fruit  balls,  or  nuts 

(76) 


77 


into  the  melted  chocolate.  Lift  them  quickly  and  scrape  off  with 
a  knife  the  surplus  chocolate  that  drips  from  them.  Place  on  waxed 
paper  to  dry. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 


2  cups  sugar  (granulated  or  light 
brown). 

2  to  4  squares  unsweetened  chocolate. 
^  cup  milk  or  cream. 


2  to  4  tablespoons  butter. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
^8  teaspoon  salt. 


Place  the  sugar,  chocolate,  and  milk  or  cream  over  low  heat  and 
cook  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Then  coi\tinue  to  cook  without 
stirring  imtil  the  sirup  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold 
water.  Remo\'e  the  candy  from  the  fire.  Let  it  cool  without 
stirring.  When  it  is  lukewarm,  add  butter,  salt,  and  vanilla.  Beat 
until  creamy.  Then  quickly  turn  into  a  buttered  pan.  When  firm 
cut  in  squares;  or,  if  preferred,  drop  it  hj  teaspoonfuls  on  waxed 
paper. 

To  vary  the  recipe,  add  a  cupful  of  chopped  nuts,  raisins,  or 
marshmallows  just  before  the  fudge  is  ready  to  pour  into  the  buttered 
pan. 

NUT-COATED  MARSHMALLOWS 


1  cup  blanched  almonds. 
1  cup  pecan  kernels. 
1  cup  English  walnut  kernels. 
IJ^  teaspoons  salt. 


2  cups  medium  brown  sugar. 
%  cup  water. 

IJ^  pounds  or  120  fresh  soft  marsh- 
mallows. 


Chop  the  nuts  very  fine.  Shake  them  through  a  sieve,  so  the 
pieces  will  be  the  same  size.  Add  the  salt  to  the  chopped  nuts  and 
stir  well.  Make  a  sirup  of  the  brown  sugar  and  water,  boiling  it 
to  226°  F.,  until  it  "threads"  from  the  spoon.  Remove  the  sauce- 
pan from  the  flame,  and  set  in  a  larger  vessel  of  hot  water.  At  once 
drop  the  marshmallows  one  hj  one  into  the  hot  sirup  using  forks  to 
handle  them.  Remove  the  marshmallows  promptly.  Roll  them  at 
once  in  the  chopped  nuts.  Place  on  oiled  paper  to  dry.  If  the 
sirup  gets  so  cool  that  it  begins  to  harden,  place  it  over  the  flame 
to  reheat.  Do  not  allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil.  If  there  is  a  coating 
of  loose  starch  or  powdered  sugar  on  the  marshmallows,  brush  or 
shake  it  off  before  dipping  them  into  the  sirup. 


PRALINES 


4  cups  sugar.  '  I  3  cups  pecan  nut  meats. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  I  2  cups  cream. 

Make  a  sirup  out  of  3  cups  of  the  sugar  and  the  cream.  Cara- 
melize the  other  cup  of  sugar  by  melting  it  in  an  iron  pan  and  stir- 
ring constantly  with  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Into  it  pour  all  the  sirup 
at  one  time,  stirring  constantly  and  rapidly.  Add  the  salt.  Boil 
the  mixture  to  the  soft-ball  stage  without  stirring.  Pour  into  a 
fiat  pan  and  cool.  Beat  to  a  creamy  consistency  and  add  the  nuts. 
Form  into  fiat,  round  cakes  about  3  inches  in  diameter  on  a  waxed 
paper.  This  amount  makes  about  20  cakes.  During  the  creaming 
process  the  nuts  must  be  added  before  the  mixture  shows  signs  of 
hardening.  As  this  candy  is  to  be  in  the  form  of  round  cakes,  and 
not  in  a  mass,  work  quickly  to  keep  the  candy  from  hardening  before 
the  cakes  are  placed  on  the  waxed  paper. 


78 


NUT- BRITTLE 

For  nut  brittle,  use  walnuts,  pecans,  peanuts,  Brazil  nuts  cut  in 
pieces,  shredded  coconut,  or  practically  any  other  kind  of  nut. 
Puffed  breakfast  foods  may  also  be  used  in  place  of  nuts. 


2  cups  white  corn  sirup. 
2  tablespoons  vinegar. 
}/2  teaspoon  salt. 


2  teaspoons  vanilla. 
2  cups  nut  kernels. 


Cook  the  sirup,  vinegar,  and  salt  in  a  saucepan  until  a  little  dipped 
in  cold  water  foiTQs  a  soft  ball.  Put  the  nuts  into  this  sirup,  pour 
into  an  iron  skillet  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  the  sirup 
becomes  golden  brown.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  vanilla. 
Have  ready  a  shallow  buttered  pan,  pour  in  the  candy,  and  spread  it 
out  in  a  thin  sheet.  After  it  is  cool,  remove  from  the  pan  and  crack 
into  pieces. 

PARISIAN  SWEETS 


pound  figs. 


3^  pound  nut  meats. 
Confectioners'  sugar. 


Wash,  pick  over,  and  stem  the  fruits.  Put  them,  with  the  nut 
meats,  through  a  meat  chopper,  using  a  medium  knife.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Roll  out  to  a  thickness  of  about  one-half  inch  on  a  board 
dredged  with  confectioners'  sugar.  Cut  into  small  pieces;  or  make 
balls  and  roll  them  in  confectioners'  sugar.  If  these  sweets  are  to  be 
kept  for  some  tune,  they  should  be  put  in  a  tin  box  or  a  tight  jar. 


POPCORN  BALLS 


2  quarts  freshly  popped  corn. 
2  cups  nut  kernels. 
13^  cups  sugar. 
1  cup  water. 


2  tablespoons  vinegar. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Boil  the  sugar,  water,  vinegar,  and  salt  until  the  sirup  hardens 
when  dipped  into  cold  water.  Add  the  vanilla,  pour  while  hot  over 
the  popcorn  and  nuts,  and  mix  well.  When  cool  enough  to  handle, 
grease  the  hands  and  form  into  balls,  or  place  in  a  deep  layer  in  a 
greased  pan,  and  cut  in  oblong  pieces.  When  cold,  wrap  in  waxed 
paper.    If  desired  chocolate  may  be  added  to  the  sirup. 

SUGARED  POPCORN 

IH  cups  sugar.  I  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  water.  I  2  quarts  freshly  popped  corn. 

Cook  the  sugar,  water,  and  salt  untU  the  sirup  forms  a  soft  ball 
when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Beat  with 
a  spoon  until  it  looks  creamy.  Drop  in  the  popcorn  and  stir  quickly 
vmtil  each  kernel  is  coated  with  sugar.  Put  on  a  platter  and  separate 
the  grains  of  cxjrn. 


PRESERVES,  JAMS,  AND  RELISHES 


WATERMELON  PRESERVE 


2  pounds  prepared  watermelon  riud. 
2  quarts  water. 
5^  ounce  lime. 
2  pounds  sugar. 


4  quarts  water. 

1  lemon  sliced  thin. 

Spices  or  ginger  root. 


Cut  the  red  portion  of  the  watermelon  from  the  rind.  Remove  the 
green  outer  skin  and  cut  the  white  part  into  inch  pieces.  Soak  the 
watermelon  in  the  limewater,  made  by  stirring  the  lime  into  the  2 
quarts  of  water,  and  let  it  stand  for  3H  houi-s.  At  the  end  of  that 
time,  let  the  rind  stand  in  fresh  cold  water  for  1  hour.  Drain  and 
boil  in  clear  water  for  13^  hours  or  until  tender.  Drain.  Make  a 
sirup  of  the  sugar  and  the  4  quarts  of  water  and  drop  the  rind  into  it 
after  it  has  reached  the  boiling  point.  Add  the  lemon  and  the  spices. 
The  spices  will  tend  to  darken  the  preserves  but  improve  the  flavor. 
Cook  the  preserves  until  the  sirup  is  thick  or  until  the  temperature 
has  reached  222°  F.  When  the  preserves  are  cooked,  pack  into 
sterilized  jars,  add  sirup  to  coA^er,  and  seal. 

CRANBERRY  JAM 


1  quart  cranberries.  1  cup  water. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  orange  and  a  little  of  the  peel  cut 
H  cup  raisins.  rather  fine. 

Chop  coarsely  together  the  cranberries,  raisins,  orange,  and  orange 
peel.  Add  the  sugar  and  water.  Cook  until  thick,  or  for  about  ^ 
hour,  stirring  often.    Place  in  jelly  glasses,  and  store  in  a  cool  place. 

This  jam  is  excellent  to  serve  with  meat  or  to  use  as  a  sandwich 
filling. 

GOOSEBERRY  JAM 

4  pounds  gooseberries.  |  4  pounds  sugar. 

Remove  the  stems,  or  the  "tops  and  tails,"  from  the  gooseberries. 
Wash  the  berries,  crush,  and  cook  until  fairly  tender.  Add  the 
sugar  and  continue  cooking  until  thick.  If  the  berries  are  ripe  and 
not  too  acid  three-fourths  as  much  sugar  as  fruit  can  be  used.  Pour 
into  hot  sterile  glasses  or  jars  and  seal,  label,  and  store  in  a  cool  place. 


APRICOT  AND  PINEAPPLE  JAM 

1  pound  dried  apricots.  |  3%  cups  sugar. 

2  No.  3  cans  of  sliced  pineapple.  I 

Wash  the  apricots  thoroughly.  Soak  them  overnight  in  1  pint  of 
water.  In  the  morning  chop  the  apricots  and  add  1  cup  of  the  sugar. 
Drain  the  pineapple,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  with  the  remain- 
ing 2%  cups  of  sugar  for  20  minutes.  J*^d  the  apricots  and  cook  for 
25  minutes.  The  pineapple  holds  its  shape,  but  the  apricots  soften, 
and  the  mixture  has  the  consistency  of  thick  jam.  Seal  while  hot  in 
clean  sterilized  jars.    This  recipe  makes  a  little  over  3  pints. 

(79) 


80 


PRUNE  JAM 


2  cups  prunes. 
\}/2  pints  water. 
2  oranges. 


1  lemon. 

1  cup  sugar. 

3^  teaspoon  salt. 


Soak  the  prunes  overnight  in  the  water.  Cook  them  for  10  minutes 
in  the  water  in  which  they  soaked,  drain,  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Slice  the  oranges  and  lemon,  including  the  peeling,  very  thin  and 
cook  rapidly  in  the  prune  juice  for  15  minutes.  Add  the  prune  pulp, 
the  sugar  and  salt,  and  cook  untU  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Seal 
in  hot,  sterile  jars. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM 

4  quarts  strawberries.  I  2  to  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

3  pounds  sugar.  I 

Wash  the  berries  thoroughly,  drain,  cap,  and  pick  out  the  largest. 
Take  about  1  quart  of  the  smaller  fruit,  crush  it  and  add  the  sugar. 
Cook  this  rapidly  in  an  enameled  saucepan  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved  and  a  thick  sirup  is  formed.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  fruit 
and  continue  the  rapid  cooking,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  scorch- 
ing. An  asbestos  mat  should  be  placed  under  the  pan  as  a  precaution. 
Cook  from  45  minutes  to  an  hour,  until  fairly  thick,  then  add  the 
lemon  juice.  The  jam  should  then  have  a  brilliant  red  color,  and 
some  of  the  fresh  flavor  of  the  fruit.  The  jam  thickens  when  cold, 
and  should  not  be  cooked  down  too  much.  Place  in  sterilized  jars, 
seal,  and  store. 

GRAPE  CONSERVE 


3  pounds  Concord  grapes. 
2  pounds  sugar. 

1  cup  nut  meats  (English  walnuts  or 
pecans,  chopped). 


1  cup  seeded  raisins. 
1'  orange  cut  fine. 


Skin  the  grapes,  stew  them,  run  them  through  a  sieve,  and  add  this 
pulp  to  the  skins.  Then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  cook  until  the 
mixture  is  thick.  Grape  conserve  is  likely  to  stick  to  the  kettle  unless 
it  is  watched  closely.  An  asbestos  mat  will  keep  the  conserve  from 
sticking.  Pour  into  hot,  clean  jelly  glasses,  cover  when  cold  with 
melted  paraffin,  and  store  in  a  cool  place. 

APRICOT  AND  PRUNE  CONSERVE 

l^i  pound  apricots.  I  1  cup  sugar. 

]/2  pound  prunes.  )  4  cups  water. 

Wash  the  prunes  and  apricots  thoroughly  and  put  them  in  the  water 
to  .soak  overnight.  Cook  the  fruit  together  for  10  minutes,  add  the 
sugar,  and  simmer  until  the  juice  is  fairl}'^  rich.  Pour  into  hot,  clean, 
jelly  glasses,  seal,  and  store  in  a  cool  place. 


81 


RHUBARB  CONSERVE 


4  cups  rhubarb,  cut  fine. 
4  cups  sugar. 

2  oranges,  juice  and  grated  rind. 


1  cup  blanched  almonds  cut  in  small 
pieces. 

teaspoon  salt. 


2  lemons,  juice  and  grated  rind.  ^ 

Combine  all  the  ingredients  except  the  nuts.  Heat  the  mixture 
slowly  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boU  rapidly  until  it  is  clear. 
The  time  of  cooking  depends  on  the  tenderness  of  the  rhubarb,  but 
do  not  cook  the  conserve  too  long  and  so  lose  the  attractive  pink  color 
and  fresh  flavor.  Add  the  nuts,  stir  well,  and  let  the  mixture  cool 
before  pouring  into  hot,  clean  jelly  glasses.  If  the  conserve  is  put 
in  hot,  the  nuts  will  rise  to  the  top.  This  quantity  will  fill  about 
8  jelly  glasses. 


1   grapefruit,   weighing   about  1 
pound  and  three  ounces. 

Select  very  tender,  clean,  yellow,  smooth-skinned  fruit,  free  from 
all  blemishes.  The  thick-skinned  varieties  are  better  than  those 
having  a  thin,  tough  peel,  since  this  thin  peel  is  likely  to  become 
still  tougher  after  cooking  with  sugar  and  acid. 

Wash  the  fruit  well.  Remove  the  skins  and  slice  them  very  thin. 
Add  a  quart  of  cold  water  to  the  sliced  peel,  bring  to  the  boil,  cook 
for  5  minutes,  and  discard  this  water.  Repeat  this  parboiUng  twice 
more,  maldng  three  times  in  all. 

Cut  the  fruit  pulp  into  thin  slices,  removing  the  seeds  and  "rag." 
Combine  this  sliced  pulp  with  the  parboiled  skins.  To  each  weight  or 
measure  of  the  combined  pulp  and  skins  add  three  times  its  weight  or 
measure  of  water  and  boil  for  40  minutes.  Do  not  begin  to  count  time 
until  it  boils  rapidly.  Measure  this  and  add  equal  weight  or  measure 
of  sugar  and  boil  rapidly  for  25  minutes  longer,  or  until  the  jelly 
stage  is  reached.  Let  stand  overnight,  reheat,  pour  into  scalded 
jelly  glasses,  and  when  cold  cover  with  paraffin. 

The  marmalade  should  have  a  clear  amber  color,  not  at  all  of  a 
brownish  cast;  it  should  be  jellied  throughout.  The  strips  of  peel 
should  be  transparent  and  tender. 

When  larger  quantities  of  fruit  are  used,  longer  periods  of  coolcing 
are  necessary  before  the  jelly  stage  is  reached,  because  of  the  larger 
quantity  of  water  which  must  be  evaporated  by  boiling. 


Select  firm  fruit,  wash  it  thoroughly,  and  remove  the  leaves  but 
not  the  stems.  Crush  the  fruit  to  start  the  juice  and  then  heat  it 
quickly.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  from  5  to  8  minutes  until  the 
skins  of  the  fruit  are  white.  Strain  through  a  thick  cloth  or  3  or  4 
thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  Do  not  squeeze  the  bag,  but  press  lightly 
to  start  the  flow  of  juice  as  it  cools.  To  each  cup  of  currant  juice 
add  1)4  cups  of  sugar.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  bring 
quickly  to  the  boiling  point  in  a  pan  large  enough  to  allow  the  juice 
to  boil  rapidly.  Currants  have  so  much  pectin  that  as  a  rule  just 
boiling  up  once  will  give  the  jelly  test;  that  is,  the  juice  will  sheet 


AMBER  MARMALADE 


1  orange,  weighing  about  7  ounces. 


1  lemon,  weighing  about  3  ounces. 


CURRANT  JELLY 


82 


from  the  spoon.  Remove  the  juice  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  the  jelly- 
test  is  reached.  Have  ready  hot  sterilized  jelly  glasses  and  after 
removing  the  scum  pour  the  jelly  carefully  into  the  glasses,  taking 
care  that  the  jelly  does  not  drop  on  the  inside  of  the  glass  near  the 
top.  Cover  the.  glasses  with  cheesecloth.  When  the  jelly  has  set 
cover  with  paraffin,  rotating  the  glass  so  that  a  rim  of  the  paz-affin 
reaches  the  top  of  the  glass.  When  this  layer  has  hardened  pour 
over  it  another  layer  of  paraffin.  Cover  with  the  jelly  glass  tops 
or  with  paper.    Label,  and  store  in  a  cool  place. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY 

1  quart  cranberries.  |  2  cups  sugar. 

2  cups  hot  water.  1 

Select  sound  firm  berries,  discarding  any  that  are  soft  or  withered. 
Wash  well  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  the  water.  Cover  and  cook 
jor  a  few  minutes  until  the  berries  have  broken,  then  cook  rapidly  for 
a  few  minutes  longer,  stirring  all  the  time.  Press  the  fruit  through 
a  fine  sieve  to  remove  seeds  as  well  as  skins.  To  the  pulp  add  the 
sugar  and  cook  for  2  or  3  minutes,  or  until  the  jelly  sheets  from  the 
spoon.  Mold  in  small  wet  bowls  holding  about  the  right  quantity 
for  one  meal.  Cranberry  jelly  "weeps"  or  rims  after  it  is  cut,  hence 
it  is  more  attractive  to  place  a  fresh  mold  on  the  table  at  each  serving. 

CANDIED  CRANBERRIES 

3  cups  cranberries.  |  2  cups  water. 
2  cups  sugar.  I 

Select  large,  firm  cranberries.  Make  three  small  slits  in  each  berry 
with  the  point  of  a  penknife.  Make  a  thin  sirup  by  boiling  the  sugar 
and  water  together  until  clear.  Allow  the  sirup  to  cool,  add  the 
hemes,  and  bring  very  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  The  saucepan 
should  be  large  enough  to  permit  all  the  berries  to  float  at  the  top 
of  the  sirup  during  cooking.  If  the  berries  are  heated  too  quickly, 
the  skins  will  burst  before  the  syrup  soaks  into  the  pulp.  As  soon  as 
the  sirup  boils,  take  the  pan  off  the  stove  and  let  it  stand  overnight. 

Next  day  drain  the  sirup  from  the  berries  and  boil  until  it  is  reduced 
to  about  half  its  original  volume.  Allow  the  sirup  to  cool,  place  the 
berries  in  it,  and  heat  again  slowly;  boil  very  gently  for  3  or  4  minutes 
and  allow  to  stand  for  2  hours  or  more.  Then  boil  gently  a  thu-d  tinie 
for  5  minutes.  Allow  the  berries  to  stand  in  the  thick  sirup  overnight; 
warm  once  more,  so  that  the  sirup  will  be  thin  enough  to  pour  easily, 
and  drain  the  berries  from  the  sirup.  Spread  them  on  a  clean  cloth 
or  paper  to  dry.  They  should  then  be  bright,  firm,  plmnp,  and  semi- 
transparent.  They  may  be  rolled  in  powdered  sugar,  stored  in  jars 
or  tins,  and  used  as  a  sweetmeat  or  in  place  of  candied  cherries  for 
garnishes,  puddings,  sauces,  and  salads. 

The  sii'up  left  over  after  the  cranberries  are  candied  has  a  pleasant 
flavor  and  fine  color  and  is  excellent  as  puddiag  sauce,  or  may  be 
diluted  for  use  on  pancakes  or  waffles. 


83 


GINGER  PEARS 


8  pounds  pears,  not  too  ripe. 

4  pounds  sugar. 
2  lemons. 


5  or  6  pieces  ginger  root,  1  to  2  inches 
long. 


Wipe  the  pears,  remove  the  steins,  quarter,  and  core.  Cut  the 
pears  into  small  pieces.  Add  the  sugar  and  the  gmg-er.  Let  stand 
overnight.  In  the  morning  add  the  lemons  cut  in  small  pieces,  reject- 
ing the  seeds,  and  cook  until  thick.  Watch  the  mixture  carefully 
lest  it  stick  and  scorch.  Do  not  let  it  cook  down  so  long  that  the  rich 
amber  color  is  lost.  Remove  the  fniit  when  it  becomes  clear.  Then 
concentrate  the  juice.  An  asbestos  mat  imder  the  kettle  will  prevent 
stickmg.  When  the  juice  is  thick,  replace  the  fruit,  heat  it  thoroughly, 
pour  into  hot  clean  jars,  seal  and  store  in  a  cool  place. 


PICKLED  CHERRIES 

Wash  and  pit  large,  sour,  red  cherries.  To  the  desired  amount  of 
cherries,  add  three-fourths  of  their  weight  or  measure  of  sugar. 
Sprinkle  the  sugar  over  the  fruit  iii  layers,  and  let  them  stand  over- 
night. In  the  morning,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  then  press 
the  juice  well  from  the  cherries.  Tie  a  small  quantity  of  whole  spices 
in  a  loose  cheesecloth  bag,  drop  this  into  the  juice,  and  boil  it  down 
until  it  is  three-fourths  of  the  original  quantity.  While  the  sirup  is  hot 
pour  it  over  the  drained  cherries,  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  weU- 
flavored  vinegar  to  each  pint.  Seal  and  let  stand  about  2  weeks  to 
become  weU-blended  before  using. 


WATERMELON  PICKLE 


2  pounds  of  watermelon.  5  cups  sugar. 

Liniewatcr  made  from  1  quart  water    1  tablespoon  allspice. 

and  1  tablespoon  lime.  1  tablespoon  cloves. 

4  cups  vinegar.  6  small  pieces  stick  cinnamon. 

1  cup  water. 

Pare  and  remove  all  green  and  pink  portions  from  watermelon  rind. 
Cut  it  in  the  desired  shape  or  size,  and  soak  for  23^  hours  in  the  lime-  / 
water.  Drain  the  watermelon  and  place  it  in  fresh  water  to  cover 
well,  and  cook  for  1^  hours  or  until  tender.  Let  the  watermelon 
stand  overnight  in  the  water.  Make  a  sirup  of  the  vinegar,  water, 
sugar,  and  spices.  Allow  the  sirup  to  come  to  the  boiling  point,  add 
the  drauied  watermelon,  and  boil  gently  for  2  hours  or  until  the  sirup 
is  fairly  thick.  Seal  and  store.  If  desired,  some  of  the  pieces  of  the 
watermelon  may  bo  placed  on  waxed  paper  and  allowed  to  dry  out, 
turning  every  day  or  two  until  dry  enough  to  store.  This  melon  can 
be  used  in  place  of  citron  in  cakes  and  puddings,  and  may  be  dipped 
in  chocolate  or  covered  with  fondant. 


84 


SWEET  PICKLE 


60  firm  dill  pickles. 
12  peeled  garlic  buttons. 
3  pints  cider  vinegar. 
1  pint  tarragon  vinegar. 
3^  cup  whole  allspice. 


}/i  cup  whole  black  pepper,  or  6  hot 

red  pepper  pods. 
10  pounds  granulated  sugar. 
1  pound  brown  sugar. 
1  cup  olive  oil. 


Cut  pickles  in  cross  slices  one-half  inch  thick.  Drain  in  a  colander 
overnight.  In  a  3-gallon  stone  crock  pack  the  pickles  in  layers,  usiag 
two  garlic  buttons  to  each  layer.  Boil  together  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and 
spices  for  15  miautes,  watching  carefully  that  this  does  not  boil  over. 
Pour  at  once  over  the  pickles.  Next  morning  stir  in  the  olive  oil. 
Cover  the  jar.  Stir  the  pickle  well  each  day  for  10  days.  It  is  then 
ready  to  serve. 


PEPPER  PICKLE 

1  cup  minced  green  pepper.  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  minced  red  pepper.  1  small  onion,  chopped. 

2  to  4  tablespoons  sugar.  1  cup  vinegar. 

Dissolve  the  salt  and  the  sugar  in  the  hot  vinegar  and  pour  over  1 
the  vegetables.  Let  the  pickle  stand  two  or  three  hours  before  serving.  ) 

CHILI  SAUCE 


5  quarts  chopped  ripe  tomatoes. 
2  cups  chopped  red  pepper. 

2  cups  chopped  green  pepper. 

cups  chopped  onions. 

3  tablespoons  salt. 


1  cup  sugar. 
3  cups  vinegar. 
1  teaspoon  cloves. 
1  teaspoon  allspice. 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 


Combine  the  chopped  vegetables,  the  salt,  and  sugar,  and  simmer 
this  mixture  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  the  vinegar  and 
spices  and  cook  the  mixture  down  until  it  becomes  a  thick  sauce. 
Pour  into  hot  sterilized  jars  and  seal,  or  bottle  the  sauce  and  seal  with 
wax.   This  recipe  yields  about  3  quarts  of  sauce. 


GRATED  HORSERADISH 


Grate  up  good  sound  roots,  cover  with  a  little  distilled  white  vine- 
gar, and  pack  into  bottles  at  once.  White  vinegar  is  better  than  cider 
vmegar,  because  the  cider  vinegar  darkens  the  horseradish.  Seal 
the  horseradish  tightly  and  keep  it  sealed.  The  best  part  of  horse- 
radish is  the  sharp,  pungent  taste,  and  that  is  due  to  a  volatile  prin- 
ciple which  escapes  very  readily,  especially  when  the  horseradish  is 
exposed  to  the  air. 


SANDWICHES 


CHEESE  SANDWICH  FILLINGS 

1.  Mix  equal  quantities  of  Neufchdtel  or  cream  cheese  with 
chopped  olives,  pimentos,  and  nuts,  or  any  one  or  two  of  these.  Add 
salt  and  a  little  onion  juice,  if  liked.  Spread  on  slices  of  white  or 
graham  bread. 

2.  Mix  the  cheese  with  finely  chopped  dill  pickle,  chow-chow,  chUi 
sauce,  or  any  other  desired  pickle  mixture.  Use  as  sandwich  filling 
or  as  a  spread  on  crackers. 

3.  Into  the  soft  cheese,  work  finely  chopped  parsley,  watercress, 
lettuce,  onions,  celery,  or  any  other  salad  vegetable.  Add  salt  and 
any  other  seasoning  desired,  such  as  onion  or  lemon  juice. 

4.  Wash  prunes,  dates,  raisins,  or  dried  figs  or  apricots,  and  put 
them  through  the  food  chopper,  using  the  fine  knife.  Mix  the  ground 
fruit  with  about  twice  as  much  cheese.  Add  a  little  salt  and  chopped 
nuts  if  desired.  This  filling  may  also  be  served  on  crackers  for  after- 
noon tea. 

5.  Finely  chopped  pineapple  mLxed  with  the  cheese  makes  an 
excellent  spread  for  sandwiches,  or  for  toasted  bread  or  crackers  for 
afternoon  parties. 

6.  Spread  slices  of  bread  rather  thickly  with  Neufchatel  or  cream 
cheese.  On  one  of  them  put  a  layer  of  jam  or  jelly.  Press  the  slices 
of  bread  together.    These  sandwiches  are  also  excellent  toasted. 

7.  Savory  cheese  sandwiches  are  made  of  sharp-flavored  club 
cheese,  chopped  English  walnuts,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  a  little 
salt,  and  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup.  Place  the  cheese  in  a 
warm  room  to  soften,  and  then  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients  to 
form  a  mixture  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread. 

TOASTED  CHEESE  SANDWICHES  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Make  sandwiches  of  buttered  bread  and  slices  of  cheese.  Season 
with  a  little  mustard  or  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Brown  the  sandwiches 
in  butter  in  a  chafing  dish  dkectly  over  the  flame,  toast  them  in  an 
oven  or  on  an  electric  grill.  Place  on  plates  and  when  ready  to 
serve  pour  tomato  sauce  around  each  serving. 

DRIED  BEEF  TOASTED  SANDWICHES 

Heat  the  beef  until  the  edges  curl,  in  a  skillet  in  melted  butter. 
Cut  the  bread  rather  thin  and  toast  it  on  one  side.  Butter  the 
untoasted  side  and  add  the  dried  beef.  Press  the  slices  together 
and  serve  at  once. 

WATERCRESS  OR  PARSLEY  BUTTER  SANDWICHES 

Watercress  sandwiches  are  made  of  watercress  ground  fine,  creamed 
with  butter,  and  spread  on  Graham  bread.  Parsley,  with  a  few  drops 
of  lemon  juice,  may  be  used  instead  of  watercress. 

(85) 


86 


PICNIC  SANDWICHES 

Cottage  cheese  makes  a  delicious  sandwich  filling  for  the  picnic 
season.  For  sandwiches,  moisten  the  cheese  with  sweet  cream,  and 
flavor  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  chopped  or  sliced  olives,  sliced 
celery,  pimentos,  horseradish,  Spanish  onion,  pickles,  or  nuts. 
Some  persons  like  the  flavor  of  caraway  seeds  in  cottage  cheese. 
This  spread  is  equally  good  on  white  bread,  rye  bread,  nut  bread, 
and  brown  bread.  Other  sandwich  combinations  suitable  for  pic- 
nics are  as  foUows: 

Cucumbers,  sliced  very  thin,  and  spread  with  a  little  mayonnaise 
dressing.    These  are  especially  good  on  brown  bread. 

Boiled  ham  with  chopped  sweet  pickles  and  salad  dressing. 

Cream  cheese,  ripe  olives,  and  nuts. 

Chopped  raisins,  with  nuts  and  lemon  juice  to  season. 

Hard-cooked  eggs,  chopped  and  mixed  with  mayonnaise  and  minced 
bacon. 

Cottage  cheese  and  bacon. 
Butter  mixed  with  strained  honey. 

Grated  American  cheese,  mixed  with  salad  dressing  and  chopped 
celery  or  pickles. 

Smoked  fish,  carefully  picked  over  to  see  that  no  bones  are  left  in. 
PEANUT  BUTTER  AND  CELERY  SANDWICH 

Chop  celery  fine,  add  it  to  peanut  butter  or  ground  peanuts,  and 
a  little  cream  or  milk.  Spread  this  mixture  between  slices  of  whole- 
wheat or  Graham  bread. 


CHOPPED  EGGS  AND  CELERY  SANDWICH 

Chop  hard-cooked  eggs  up  fine  and  season  them  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  half  as  much  finely  chopped  celery  and  enough  mayon- 
naise to  make  the  mixture  easy  to  spread. 

BAKED  BEANS  AND  CHILI  SAUCE  SANDWICH 

Use  about  2  tablespoons  of  chili  sauce  to  Y2  cup  of  baked  beans, 
mash  the  mixture  till  it  is  smooth,  and  spread  on  brown  bread,  or 
Graham  bread. 

GROUND  PEANUT  SANDWICH 

Put  shelled  roasted  peanuts  through  a  food  chopper,  using  the 
medium  fine  Imife.  Do  not  use  the  nut  knife,  because  it  grinds  the 
peanuts  too  fine.  Mix  the  ground  nuts  with  just  enough  cream  to 
moisten  and  make  the  mixture  suitable  to  spread.  Add  salt  to  taste. 
Spread  this  mixture  on  Graham  or  whole-wheat  bread. 


D.  S.  GOVEENMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE:  1927 


i  - 


