It^t*^, 


1W^ 


^^^1^ 


tLittJ**?? 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/bachelorscupboarOOphil 


A  BACHELOR'S  CUPBOARD 


VT 


BACHSLOKS 
CUPBQARP 

ContmningCrumhsCuIlcd 

from  fAe  Cupboards  of 

file  Great  Unu/edded 


GoJlceiedby 
^'Lyman  T^hillips' 

Dra-winbs  by 

WrnxJenkins 


Boston  C^ London 

JoTmWLuce  C^Companv 


^^^^^ 


VuKK 


^'^2.a:  library 
792352  A 


ASTOl 


-NOX  AND 


riLDLi,  FOUNDATIONS 
■H  1936  r 


Copyright,  I  go  6 
By  John  W.  Luce  &  Co. 


Entered  at  Stationers^  Hall 


CTolontal  ^ress 

Electrotyped  and  Printed  by  C.  H.  Simonds  &;  Co. 
Boston,  U.  S.  A. 


TO 


^It  Sale  Stttbibor 


OF 

THE   FIVE    BACHELORS   OF    **  THE    SHACK,' 

I    AFFECTIONATELY    DEDICATE 

THIS    BOOK. 


CHAPTER 

I.  On  Being  a  Bachelor 

II.  The  Impecunious  Bachelor 

III.  Stocking  the  Cupboard 

IV.  Bachelor  Etiquette     . 
V.  Around  the  Camp  Fire 

VI.  Carving  and  Game 

VII.  Snacks  of  Sea  Food     . 

VIII.  A  Chat  on  Cheese 

IX.  Devils  and  Grills 

X.  Mexican  and  Creole  Cooking 

XI.  Bachelor  Bonnes  Bouchees 

XII.  Concerning  Condiments 

XIII.  Various  Variations  with  Vegetables 

XIV.  A  Dissertation  on  Drinks 
XV.  What  to   Pay  for  Wines  and  How  to 

Choose  Them      .... 

XVI.  Correct  Wines  for  All  Occasions 

XVII.  Temperance  Drinks 

XVIII.  Correct  Clothes   .... 

XIX.  How  A  Man  May  Valet  Himself 

XX.  How  TO  Cleanse  Clothing 

XXI.  Handy  Hints  on  Housekeeping 


I 

9 

19 
29 

3,7 
49 
57 
67 
77 
85 
97 
113 
125 

n?, 

149 
161 
177 
181 

187 
197 
205 


ON  BeiNG 


A  BACHeLORJf 


CHAPTER    I 

"  All !  drink  if  you  -will  to    tbe    Kandsome 
man. 
Or  the  proud  attlete  undaunted. 
And  toast  him,  too,  the  husband  true, 
AAHiose  faith  has  long  been  vaunted. 
And  drink  to  the  strong  and  handsome 
man. 
But  lift  your  glasses  higher 
WTien  the  toasts  ring  out,  in  a  merry 
shout. 
For  the  man  that  men  admire." 

— James  Clarence  Haevet. 

Being  a  bachelor  is  easy.  Staying  a 
bachelor — ah!  there's  the  hitch!  But 
that's  another  story.  Yes,  it's  easy  to 
be  a  bachelor,  but  to  be  a  thorough- 
bred, unless  it  is  inbred  and  the  single 
man  is  "  to  the  manner  born,"  is  more 
difficult.  It  requires  unlimited  time, 
patience  and  education  as  well  as  a 
store  of  myriad  bits  of  information 
on  a  multitude  of  subjects. 


[^^> 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

On    Being   a    Bachelor 

The  "  correct  "  bachelor  must  not  only  know  howj 
but  he  must  know  why.  He  must  be  a  woman's  man 
and  a  man's  man,  an  all-round  "  good  fellow."  He 
must  "  fit  "  everywhere  and  adapt  himself  to  all  sorts 
of  society  under  all  sorts  of  circumstances.  Good 
breeding  and  kindliness  of  heart  are  the  essentials. 
These,  above  everything,  he  must  have ;  and  given  them, 
the  other  attributes  may  be  easily  acquired  by  study 
and  observation. 

Any  man  may  be  a  bachelor — most  men  are  at  some 
time  in  their  lives.  The  day  of  the  "  dude  "  has  passed 
and  the  weakling  is  relegated  to  his  rightful  sphere  in 
short  order.  But  to  the  bachelor  the  world  looks  for 
its  enjoyment  and  inspiration  and  gayety.  Upon  him, 
as  a  matter  of  course,  fall  many  burdens.  These,  if  he 
knows  how  to  bear  them,  are  speedily  transformed  into 
blessings  and  counted  as  privileges. 

Have  not  some  of  the  world's  greatest  men  enjoyed 
lives  of  single-blessedness?  Have  not  some  of  its 
greatest  bon-vivants,  epicures,  artists,  musicians,  and 
writers  led  the  solitary  life  from  preference  rather  than 
necessity  ? 

"  I  am  a  bachelor,"  says  one  gallant,  "  because  I  love 
all  womankind  so  well  I  cannot  discriminate  in  favor 
of  the  one." 

Bachelors  are  the  most  charming  of  entertainers. 
What  woman  ever  refuses  an  opportunity  to  chaperon 
at  a  bachelor  dinner  or  studio  tea?  What  debutante 
does  not  feel  secretly  ecstatic  at  the  very  idea  of  look- 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

On    Being    a    Bachelor 

ing  behind  the  scenes  and  peeping  into  the  corners  of 
some  famous  bachelor  menage?  And  who,  indeed,  can 
be  a  more  perfect  host  than  a  bachelor?  He  can  be 
equally  gracious  and  devoted  to  all  women  because  of 
the  absence  of  that  feminine  proprietorship  which  al- 
ways tends  to  make  the  married  man  withhold  his  most 
graceful  compliments,  his  most  tender  glances  and  his 
most  winning  smile. 

It  is  the  bachelor  who.  makes  society;  without  him 
It  would  indeed  be  tame  and  find  itself  dwindling  down 
Into  a  hot-bed  of  discontent,  satiety  and  monotony. 
He  adds  just  the  right  touch  of  piquancy  to  Its  hot- 
house existence  and  furnishes  husbands  for  Its  debu- 
tantes and  flirtations  for  its  married  women. 

His  versatility  makes  him  a  valuable  acquisition  to 
any  gathering.  He  knows  the  correct  thing  in  dress, 
the  latest  novelty  of  the  London  haberdasher  and  what 
the  King  Is  wearing  to  Ascot.  He  Is  familiar  with  the 
etiquette  of  European  courts  and  American  drawing- 
rooms  and  can  tell  of  the  little  peculiarities  of  social 
functions  in  Washington,  Boston,  Baltimore,  Charles- 
ton, London  or  Vienna.  He  can  valet  himself  if  he 
has  to,  and  does  not  scorn  to  clean  his  own  boots  in  an 
emergency. 

He  can  quote  that  prince  of  epicures,  Brillat-Savarin, 
and  tell  how  Billy  Soule  broils  trout  over  the  coals. 
When  it  comes  to  condiments,  he  can  tell  by  the  aroma 
of  a  dish  what  Its  seasoning  Is;  at  mixing  toothsome 
devils  and  curries  he  is  a  past  master.     He  Is  an  au- 

3 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

On    Being    a    Bachelor 

thorlty  on  wines  and  knows  how  to  judge  them;  or, 
possibly  eschewing  alcoholic  beverages,  he  can  offer  sat- 
isfactory substitutes  that  fill  the  bill,  and  is  sufficiently 
broad  to  take  his  lime  and  seltzer  or  Apollinaris  with  a 
crowd  of  good  fellows  growing  mellow  over  their 
champagne;  and  ten  to  one  he  has  a  fund  of  witty  rep- 
artee that  scintillates  among  that  of  his  fellows.  If 
he  drinks,  he  does  it  like  a  gentleman  and  knows  when 
to  "  turn  down  the  empty  glass."  If  he  has  a  hobby, 
he  rides  it  decently  without  coming  a  cropper  at  every 
high  gate. 

The  correct  bachelor  knows  all  these  things  intui- 
tively. He  may  be  impecunious,  but  he  must  be  artistic. 
The  "  artistic  temperament  "  is  more  easily  acquired 
than  the  stolid  young  lawyer  poring  over  his  Blackstone 
may  dream.  The  combination  of  the  practical  and 
artistic  is  much  to  be  desired,  and  with  each  succeeding 
generation  this  is  becoming  more  largely  a  matter  of 
intuition  and  environment  than  study. 

The  artistic  temperament  flourishes  in  that  real 
Land  of  Bohemia  ''  where  many  are  called,  but  few 
are  chosen."  There  "  every  man  is  manly,  every 
woman  is  pure  "  and  the  spirit  of  bon  camaradie  is  al- 
ways in  the  air.  The  old  Greek  maxim,  "  Know  thy- 
self," and  that  other,  *'  To  thine  own  self  be  true," 
build  a  creed  of  greater  worth  than  tomes  of  ancient 
lore.  "  The  hand  clasp  firm  of  those  who  dare  and 
do — half  way  meets  that  of  those  who  bravely  do  and 
dare." 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

On    Being    a    Bachelor 


The  "  men  who  do  things,"  the  most  talked-of 
bachelors,  form  brilliant  coteries  in  different  parts  of 
the  world.  The  Lambs'  Club  in  New  York,  the  Bo- 
hemian Club  in  San  Francisco,  bravely  pulling  itself 
together  after  its  great  disaster,  the  Savage  Club  in 
London,  the  St.  Botolph  Club  in  Boston — all  show  in 
a  glance  over  their  membership  rolls  the  names  of  men 
who  not  only  do  things,  but  do  them  well.  Renowned 
artists,  famous  composers,  maestros,  millionaires,  au- 
thors and  all-round  good  fellows  gather  to  applaud  the 
work  of  their  fellow  members  and  are  eager  to  en- 
joy the  spirit  of  Bohemian  brotherhood. 

Many  bachelors,  after  an  early  life  of  uncertainty, 
find  themselves  past  the  threshold  of  success,  but 
through  money  and  character  they  may  attain  a  place 
in  society. 

Many  have  slaved  over  ledgers  and  bent  over  the 
ticker,  who  have  had  no  time  in  the  bustle  and  worry 
of  their  business  life  and  struggle  for  success  to 
gather  the  odd  bits  of  miscellaneous  knowledge  of 
etiquette,  arts  and  letters,  epicurism,  habiliment,  and 
so  on,  that  are  required  of  a  successful  bachelor.  *'  Be- 
ing a  bachelor  "  becomes  a  business,  even  as  keeping  a 
set  of  books  or  making  investments.  Any  bit  of  knowl- 
edge that  will  add  to  his  accomplishments  is  as  good  a 
business  investment  as  a  bond  or  mining  certificate. 
The  latter  may  be  taken  away,  but  his  knowledge,  once 
gained,  is  always  his  "  to  have  and  to  hold." 

Even  as  *'  a  little  knowledge  is  a  dangerous  thing," 

5 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

On    Being    a    Bachelor 

how  much  more  dangerous  is  it  to  be  without  it.  No 
one  is  so  wise  that  his  wisdom  may  not  be  increased. 
One  bachelor  may  be  able  to  win  at  poker  or  break  a 
broncho  into  quivering  submission  to  his  will,  but  will 
be  quite  out  of  place,  like  the  proverbial  bull  in  a  china 
shop,  in  a  fashionable  drawing-room,  and  all  for  want 
of  a  little  knowledge  of  the  etiquette  of  afternoon  teas 
or  evening  receptions.  Another  may  be  able  to  cook 
and  serve  a  French  dinner  of  eight  courses,  but  be  piti- 
fully wanting  in  the  lore  of  camp  cookery  and  "  rough- 
ing it."  Another  may  be  an  authority  on  colonial  fur- 
niture and  a  connoisseur  of  wines,  yet  wonder  why  peo- 
ple try  to  hide  an  involuntary  expression  of  surprise 
when  he  appears  at  dinner  in  a  Tuxedo  and  a  white 
waistcoat. 

For  some  years  the  world  at  large  has  been  possessed 
of  a  passion  for  knowing  "  how  to  do  things."  ''  How 
to  do  this  "  and  "  how  to  make  that  "  have  been  "  top- 
liners  "  in  Sunday  newspapers,  and  from  ''  Jiu  Jitsu  in 
twenty  lessions  "  to  "  what  to  name  the  baby  "  and 
'*  how  to  make  your  canary  bird  sing,"  these  expert 
writers  have  condensed  their  stores  of  knowledge  into 
printed  page  or  paragraph  and  have  set  forth  in  con- 
cise or  exhaustive  information,  as  the  case  may  be, 
"  how  to  do  "  almost  everything  under  the  sun.  Even 
David  Belksco  has  been  tempted  into  telling  how  to 
write  plays,  and  Bernard  Shaw  instructs  one  upon 
"  going  to  church."     ''  Bossie  "  Mulhall  shows  how  to 

6 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

On    Being    a    Bachelor 

rope  a  steer  and  Theodore  Roosevelt  tells  how  to  lead 
a  strenuous  life ;  but  in  all  this  great  store  of  condensed 
Instruction  one  field  at  least  has  remained  still  uncov- 
ered. No  one  has  w^ritten  on  "  how  to  be  a  bachelor," 
for  the  spinsters  seem  to  have  appropriated  all  the 
space.  For  them  there  has  been  advice  a-plenty  on 
how  to  select  a  husband  and  how  to  keep  on  the  sunny 
side  of  thirty,  and  so  on  through  the  gamut  of  woman- 
lore. 

Why  has  the  bachelor  been  neglected?  Possibly 
because  he  is  popularly  supposed  to  be  quite  self-suffi- 
cient and  omniscient.  An  occasional  paragraph  on  why 
clocked  socks  are  better  form  than  embroidered  ones,  or 
how  to  tell  when  the  girl  of  one's  choice  loves  him, 
creeps  Into  print ;  but  for  the  bachelor  who  really  wants 
to  "  know  how  "  there  Is  no  royal  road  to  learning  save 
the  rocky,  steep  thoroughfare  that  each  one  must  needs 
climb  by  himself  on  his  dally  journey  In  quest  of 
Experience. 

There  Is  no  "  complete  compendium  "  for  the  ambi- 
tious bachelor  who  welshes  to  become  bon  vivant, 
epicure,  "  connoisseur  de  vins  "  and  "  up  "  on  all  the 
little  things  that  combine  to  make  him  an  authority  on 
the  things  of  single  men  of  the  world.  But  his  pro- 
verbial fare  of  "  bread  and  cheese  and  kisses  "  needs  to 
be  modified  to  suit  present-day  needs,  and  the  judicious 
addition  of  a  few  crumbs  to  his  store  of  provender  may 
be  welcome.     From  these  crumbs  from  many  bachelor 

7 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

On    Being    a    Bachelor 

cupboards,  then,  may  he  find  an  occasional  *'  crumb  of 
comfort  "  and  a  little  lift  over  some  hard  place  along 
the  road.  If  he  finds  it  herein,  the  purpose  of  "  A 
Bachelor's  Cupboard  "  will  have  been  fulfilled. 


CHAPTER     II 

"  In    heat    of  youtt,  poor    Jack    engaged  a 

wife 
A^liose  tongue,  te  found,  miglit  prove  a 

scourge  for  life  ; 
Perplexed,    te  still  ^jut  off  tKe  evil  day. 
Grew    sick    at    length,  and  just    expiring 

lay. 
To  which  sad    crisis,  having  brought  the 

matter 
To    wed    or    die — he    wisely    chose    the 

latter. " 

Of  all  bachelors,  the  Impecunious 
bachelor  is  most  deserving  of  sympa- 
thy. In  fact,  he  is  the  only  one  who 
needs  It.  No  one  ever  asks  a  mill- 
ionaire bachelor  why  he  leads  a 
single  life;  the  reason  Is  too  obvious. 
But  too  often,  alas!  It  is  from  neces- 
sity rather  than  choice  that  the  im- 
pecunious fellow  remains  single. 
That  Is  the  Irony  of  Fate.  "  To  those 
who  would  wed,  It  shall  be  denied." 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

The    Impecunious    Bachelor 

Possibly  It  may  be  the  invasion  of  woman  into  all 
the  trades  and  professions  of  men  that  accounts  for  this 
dollarless  portion  of  many  young  men.  Where  once 
they  reigned  supreme,  they  are  now  dethroned  and 
doomed  to  grow  round  shouldered  over  a  ledger  at 
twelve  dollars  a  week,  while  a  gay,  Irresponsible  miss 
of  seventeen  fresh  from  the  Business  College  runs 
everything  In  the  office  from  the  temperature  to  "  The 
Boss,"  and  drav.^s  eighteen  or  twenty  dollars  from  Its 
coffers  every  Saturday  night. 

A  man  of  good  family  and  enviable  social  connec- 
tions who  may  be  obliged  to  w^ork  for  a  meagre  stipend, 
has  to  forego  many  pleasures  that  rightfully  belong  to 
him.  He  may  not  afford  his  club,  his  favorite  military 
organization  must  be  stricken  from  his  list;  he  is  chary 
of  accepting  social  obligations  which  he  may  not  return, 
therefore  is  obliged  to  miss  many  a  pleasant  evening. 
He  is  too  proud  to  become  a  "  hanger  on,"  and  If  he 
has  had  money  and  lost  It,  then  is  his  lot  even  harder, 
for  he  is  often  patronized  by  his  one-time  friends. 
Only  a  man  who  has  lost  his  money  knows  how  many 
of  his  friends  went  with  it. 

The  strictest  economy  Is  his  allotment;  and  even 
with  a  salary  of  twenty-five  or  thirty  dollars  a  w^ek,  he 
may  not  Indulge  In  many  social  pleasures.  If  he  has 
been  accustomed  to  the  good  things  of  life,  It  is  indeed 
hard  for  him  to  give  up  the  things  he  most  enjoys.  A 
twenty-one-meal  ticket  at  four  dollars  will  keep  away 
hunger,   but  one  might  almost  prefer  hunger's  pangs 

10 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

The    Impecunious    Bachelor 

occasionally  to  the  agonies  of  a  public  dining-room  with 
Its  poor  ventilation,  mixed  company  and  hurried  serv- 
ice. These  would  combine  to  make  a  perfect  dinner 
unendurable.  And  the  average  dinner  of  the  boarding 
house  Is  far  from  perfection. 

But  after  all,  there  is  compensation  in  this  state,  as 
in  all  things.  The  Impecunious  Bachelor  has  his  true 
and  loyal  friends,  and  he  can  always  depend  upon  them 
in  any  emergency.  They  are  his  friends  for  friend- 
ship's sake,  not  for  what  he  may  possess  In  worldly 
goods.  And  if  he  is  Inclined  to  be  philosophical,  he 
may  extract  from  his  dull  routine  many  pleasures  that 
are  denied  his  more  fortunate  brothers. 

The  Bachelor  who  earns  about  $1000  a  year,  may, 
if  he  does  a  little  careful  thinking,  live  comfortably, 
even  luxuriously,  if  he  sets  up  his  Lares  and  Penates  In 
an  unfurnished  room  and  builds  for  himself  therein  at 
least  one  room  of  his  "  house  of  dreams." 

Here,  his  individuality  may  run  riot,  and  because  he 
is  poor  is  by  no  means  a  reason  why  he  should  be  com- 
monplace. His  one  room  may  be  as  artistic  as  he  de- 
sires, and  if  he  is  willing  to  sacrifice  a  little  of  his  time 
and  thought,  the  result  will  soon  be  in  evidence.  Its 
decorations  may  reflect  his  tastes,  w^hether  they  be  for 
riding,  fishing  and  hunting,  good  pictures  or  athletic 
sports.  He  may  not  be  a  bachelor  from  choice;  but  it 
is  far  easier  to  put  money  by  for  the  home  which  he 
expects  to  have  one  day.  If  he  has  comfortable  bachelor 
quarters  In  which   to   spend   his  evenings.     With  his 

II 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

The    Impecunious    Bachelor 

books,  his  pipe,  all  his  treasures  about  him,  and  a 
few  loyal  friends  to  drop  in  now  and  then  to  keep  him 
company,  he  will  soon  cease  to  regret  the  absence  of 
club  life,  and  in  his  own  little  circle  will  be  far  happier 
than  many  men  of  ten  times  his  income. 

Suppose  a  man  has  an  income  of  $1200  a  year.  This 
means  $25  a  week,  and  upon  this  basis  he  may  live 
delightfully — if  he  knows  how  to  deny  himself  certain 
things. 

Ordinarily,  a  man  would  pay  for  a  furnished  room 
in  a  good  locality  no  less  than  $5.00  a  week.  For 
from  $150  to  $175  a  year  it  is  possible  in  most  cities  to 
get  a  large  unfurnished  room  with  a  good  closet,  and 
in  some  cases  hot  and  cold  water  in  the  room,  together 
w^ith  the  privilege  of  the  bath  on  the  same  floor — which, 
however,  he  is  likely  to  have  to  share  with  two  or  three 
others. 

If  he  takes  an  unfurnished  room  at  $150,  this  leaves 
a  margin  of  $100  with  which  to  purchase  his  own 
belongings.  Perhaps  he  will  feel  that  he  can  afford 
to  spend  another  $50,  since  it  is  only  for  the  first 
year  that  this  additional  expense  of  furnishing  will  be 
had. 

Upon  taking  it  by  the  year,  the  proprietors  of  the 
house  or  apartments  are  supposed  to  put  it  in  perfect 
order.  Generally  they  are  willing  to  paper  it  for  a 
permanent  tenant,  allowing  him  to  choose  the  paper  for 
himself.  If  he  can  induce  them  to  put  up  a  plate  rail 
about  five   feet   from   the  floor,   so  much  the  better. 

12 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

The    Impecunious    Bachelor 

There  may  be  a  figured  paper  in  warm  crimsons,  cool 
dark  blues  or  sage  greens,  according  to  the  exposure  of 
the  room  and  its  allowance  of  sunlight,  below  the 
plate  rail.  Above  it,  plain  cartridge  paper  of  the  same 
prevailing  shade  will  make  an  excellent  background  for 
his  pictures  and  other  decorations. 

The  floor  will  also  be  done  over  and  nicely  waxed, 
and  window  shades  are  supposed  to  be  furnished.  Also 
heat  and  hot  and  cold  water.  The  gas  or  electric  lights 
are  generally  extra  and  each  room  provided  with  a 
meter. 

If  one  has  no  book  case,  and  there  is  a  corner  in  the 
room  where  bookshelves  could  be  built,  a  carpenter 
will,  for  a  comparatively  small  amount,  fashion  shelves 
to  fit  that  particular  space  and  deliver  them  painted 
or  stained  to  match  the  woodwork  of  the  room.  He 
will  also  make  for  three  or  four  dollars,  a  frame  for  a 
window  seat  which  the  bachelor  may  upholster  himself 
if  he  be  inclined.  If  the  room  has  a  bay  window,  the 
seat  would  cost  a  trifle  more,  but  the  result  would  be 
well  worth  the  expenditure.  The  bookshelves  may  be 
fitted  with  glass  doors,  or  a  simple  brass  rod  upon  which 
a  curtain  may  be  hung. 

Weathered  oak,  despite  the  fact  that  it  is  so  com- 
monly used  now,  makes  ideal  furnishing  for  bachelor 
quarters.  If  he  prefers  to  buy  old  mahongany,  and  has 
the  time  to  attend  auction  sales,  he  may  pick  up  great 
bargains  and  for  a  half  more  gratify  his  taste  for 
antiques. 

13 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

The    Impecunious    Bachelor 

If  he  decides  upon  weathered  oak,  a  fair  Idea  of  the 
expense  may  be  gained  from  the  following  prices: 

Chiffonier,  which  should  be  severely  plain  with  brass 
knobs,  $24.00;  round  table,  four  feet  In  diameter  with 
a  shelf  beneath,  $6.00;  a  bed-couch,  four  feet  wide  and 
eight  feet  long  with  National  springs,  may  be  bought 
with  mattress  for  $7.00;  a  Morris  chair  In  weathered 
oak  with  cushions  at  from  $12.00  (leatherette  cush- 
ions) to  $20.00  (with  real  leather)  ;  two  colonial 
chairs  at  $1.85  each,  $3.70;  an  arm  chair  or  rocking 
chair  with  leather  seat,  $5.00;  a  closed  or  flat-top  desk 
will  be  $8.00  more — although  they  are  to  be  had  at 
from  $5.00  upwards — and  a  desk  chair  with  leather 
seat  to  match  will  be  $4.00  more.  For  from  $15.00  to 
$20.00,  cabinets  for  chafing  dish  and  "  Bachelor's  Cab- 
inets "  for  bottles  and  glasses  may  be  had.  Doubtless 
he  win  want  but  one,  and  if  so,  let  this  be  for  the 
bottles.  A  settee  at  $6.00  with  a  back  which  forms  a 
table  is  a  convenient  piece  of  furniture  for  a  bachelor. 
In  the  seat,  he  may  keep  his  overshoes,  gloves  or  any- 
thing he  chooses.  Some  bachelors  use  them  for  tea 
things,  which  are  thus  kept  free  from  dust.  This  is 
admirable  to  use  for  chafing  dish  cookery,  because  of 
its  ample  size,  and  is  to  be  recommended  rather  than  a 
small  table. 

A  tabouret  for  smoking  things  and  a  rack  for  plates 
and  steins  will  cost  respectively  $2.50  and  $3.00  more; 
if  he  Includes  In  the  furnishings  a  piano  which  may  be 
hired  for  $40.00  a  year  or  purchased  upon  the  instal- 

14 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

The    Impecunious    Bachelor 

ment  plan  for  about  the  same  sum,  this  will  be  sufficient 
furniture  for  a  room  of  ordinary  size. 

If  the  room  has  an  alcove,  so  much  the  better.  In 
this  his  chiffonier  may  be  set,  and  portieres  may  screen 
it  from  sight.  He  may  sleep  upon  his  couch,  and  the 
alcove  might  serve  as  a  dressing-room.  If  the  man  is 
handy  with  tools,  he  might  make  for  himself  from  old 
packing  boxes  a  cupboard  for  his  boots,  shoes,  blacking 
brushes,  etc.,  to  be  kept  here.  A  shelf  could  be  put 
across  one  side  of  the  alcove,  upon  which  to  keep  hat 
boxes,  with  hooks  beneath;  a  curtain  tacked  along  this 
shelf  w^ould  cover  his  clothing  and  keep  the  dust  from 
It.  With  this  provision,  his  closet  could  be  used  for 
the  storage  of  his  eatables  or  as  a  *'  kitchenette."  If 
It  be  fitted  w^Ith  running  water,  as  many  closets  are  In 
old-fashioned  houses,  so  much  the  better. 

If  the  bachelor  wants  to  pay  a  particular  compliment 
to  one  of  his  women  friends,  then  let  him  ask  her  to 
help  select  the  curtains.  For  $2.00  a  paif  at  the  most 
he  should  succeed  In  finding  something  quite  recherche 
that  will  be  In  keeping  with  the  hangings  of  the  room. 
If  he  wishes  sash  curtains,  then  let  them,  together  with 
the  curtains  before  the  bookshelves,  be  of  raw  pongee 
silk.  If  the  lady  is  a  very  particular  friend,  perhaps 
she'll  offer  to  make  them  for  him. 

As  for  rugs — that's  a  delicate  question.  But  let 
us  suggest  that  for  temporary  use  the  bachelor  purchase 
some  of  the  pretty  Japanese  cotton  rugs  that  come  In 
pleasing   designs   and   rich   colorings.     These   may  be 

15 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

The    Impecunious    Bachelor 

had  3x6  at  $1.50  each,  and  look  as  well  as  many  a  ten- 
dollar  rug.  Then,  when  he  sees  a  special  bargain  in 
good  Persian,  Turkish  or  Afghanistan  rug,  he  may 
buy  whatever  strikes  his  fancy;  excellent  books  on 
rugs  with  beautiful  illustrations  are  available  at  the 
Public  Libraries,  and  a  few  evenings'  study  on  the  sub- 
ject will  give  a  man  an  insight  into  rug  buying  that 
will  stand  him  in  good  stead,  provided  he  is  not  al- 
ready a  connoisseur. 

The  furniture  already  mentioned  will  cost  about 
$104.00.  Then  there  will  be  the  additional  expense 
of  couch  and  table  covers,  curtains  and  sash  curtains, 
linen,  and  pillows  or  cushions. 

For  this  room  the  bachelor  will  need  six  sheets  and 
six  pillow  slips,  half  a  dozen  bath  towels,  a  dozen  and 
a  half  of  hand  towels,  a  couple  of  scarves  for  the 
chiffonier,  a  dozen  glass  towels  and  three  or  four  dus- 
ters. These  will  cost  as  follow: — sheets,  $3.00;  pillow 
slips,  $1.50.  Three  slips  may  be  sufficient.  Bath 
towels,  $1.50  to  $3.00,  according  to  quality;  hand 
towels,  $4.50;  dusters,  which  may  be  of  cheesecloth, 
25c.;  and  glass  towels,  $1.50  to  $2.00.  He  will  also 
need  a  pair  of  blankets  at  from  $3.00  to  $5.00  and 
possibly  a  puff  or  comforter,  which  will  be  $3.00  for 
cotton  and  $10.00  for  down. 

This  linen  he  will  include  in  his  laundry,  and  it  will 
probably  average  a  dozen  and  a  half  pieces  a  w^ek,  for 
which  he  will  pay  at  the  rate  of  $.50  the  dozen. 

The  lights  will  probably  average  about  $1.50  to 
16 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

The    Impecunious    Bachelor 

$2.00  extra  a  month  and  the  service  of  a  maid  Is  gen- 
erally ten  cents  an  hour  or  $1.00  a  week,  which  in- 
cludes giving  the  room  a  thorough  cleaning  once  a 
week  and  "  doing  it  up  "  on  other  days,  making  the 
bed,  dusting  and  airing,  washing  what  dishes  may  be 
left  from  breakfast  or  the  night  before  and  putting 
things  to  rights  generally.  Thus  the  actual  expense 
of  the  room  and  laundry  will  average  about  $5.00  to 
$5.25  a  week.  If  the  bachelor  particularly  wishes  to 
retrench,  he  may,  as  many  men  do,  care  for  his  own 
room. 


17 


rrrr 

'Wten    I    was   a    bactelor,     I    lived    by 

myself. 
And    all    the    bread  and  cbeese  I  bad,  I 

put    upon   tbe    sbelf . " 

— Mother  Goose. 


"Tbe    Fate    of    Nations    Depends    upon 
How   Tbey  Are  Fed.  " 

— Brillat-Savarist. 

In  stocking  the  cupboard  there  Is 
much  to  be  considered:  whether  the 
bachelor  sports  his  own  menage  with 
a  cook  and  butler  and  valet,  or 
whether  he  has  simply  a  humble  flat 
which  he  shares  with  other  men,  pre- 
sided over  by  a  New  England  spin- 
ster mald-of-all-work  of  uncertain 
age,  a  capable  Chinaman,  a  joyful 
"  Jap,"  a  "  greaser,"  or  a  "  cullud 
gen'leman,"  according  to  Its  locality. 
Whether  it  be  a  single  man  of  means 
w^hose  hotel   furnishes  him  w^Ith   a 


19 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Stocking    the    Cupboard 

kitchenette  and  a  cold  storage  box  in  his  apartment, 
or  one  of  "  the  ballroom  boys  "  who  has  bis  larder  in 
a  shoe  box,  nailed  to  the  window  ledge,  a  mental  process 
is  essential. 

In  the  process  of  elimination  the  bachelor  with  his 
own  menage  may  be  "  cut  out."  He  knows  what  he 
wants — and  if  he  doesn't,  then  his  butler  does.  For 
the  others,  and  the  impecunious  bachelor  mentioned  in 
another  chapter,  a  little  gratuitous  advice  may  not  be 
amiss,  particularly  since  it  is  contributed  by  scores  of 
bachelors  who  are  guilty  of  various  degrees  of  house- 
keeping and  by  some  artists  who  have  the  science  of 
hiding  a  complete  housekeeping  outfit  behind  a  Japanese 
screen  dow^n  pat. 

"  Blessed  be  nothing  "  so  far  as  possessions  are  con- 
cerned; for  there  is  nothing  like  starting  on  a  "clean 
slate,"  as  it  were. 

The  bachelors  who  live  in  a  flat  are  hard  people  to 
deal  with  when  it  comes  to  furnishing  the  kitchen,  for 
each  one  has  his  own  pet  ideas,  culled  from  nothing  In 
particular,  as  to  what  the  furnishings  of  kitchen,  dining- 
room  and  pantry  should  include. 

My  sympathies  are  with  the  "  ballroom  boy  "  who 
has  limited  space,  limited  means,  limited  acquaintance. 
To  him,  stocking  his  cupboard  often  becomes  a  tragedy, 
because  of  his  inability  to  distinguish  In  his  blessed  in- 
experience between  necessities  and  luxuries.  Some 
there  are  who  decide  that  they  can  do  without  neces- 
sities but  must  have  luxuries.  Supposing  then,  that 
he  is  "  the  bachelor  Impecunious  "  who  has  his  quarters 

20 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Stocking    the    Cupboard 

nicely  fitted  up  for  permanent  occupation,  save  the 
things  necessary  for  that  closet  which  he  will  have  for 
his  "  kitchenette  and  pantry  "  and  is  going  to  stock 
up  on  the  utensils  and  supplies  necessary  for  his  use  in 
providing  his  own  breakfast,  and  an  occasional  Sunday 
spread  or  little  supper  for  his  friends.  The  stocking 
of  the  cupboard  may  be  divided  into  three  classes:  the 
service,  the  utensils  for  cooking,  etc.,  and  the  supplies. 
In  ordinary  cases  the  following  list  will  be  sufficient. 
The  bachelor  should  remember  if  the  first  cost  seems 
a  bit  large,  although  it  eats  a  tremendous  hole  in  his 
week's  salary,  that  it  is  the  first  cost  that  counts ;  for  the 
dishes  w^ill  last,  likewise  the  condiments  "  and  sich," 
most  of  which  will  keep  indefinitely. 

THE  For  ordinary  use,  he  may  follow  his  own 

SERVICE  taste  in  china;  but  it  is  well  to  expend  a 
trifle  more  in  getting  something  that  is  artistic,  and 
will  always  be  in  good  taste.  Willow  ware  is  always 
in  perfect  taste,  and,  being  heavy,  has  the  added  ad- 
vantage of  "  toughness,"  which  is  a  good  point.  Sup- 
posing then  that  one  decides  upon  this: 

^  dozen   large   plates  2  covered    vegetable    dishes 

J    dozen    small    plates  i  sauce   boat 

i    dozen    bread    and  butter       i  salad  bowl 

plates  1  cream   pitcher 

i  dozen  cups  and  saucers  i  dozen  sauce  plates 

2    platters  i  dozen  soup  plates 
2   bowls 

This  will  be  enough  of  the  Willow  ware.  For  des- 
sert or  fruit,  a  half  dozen  china  plates  will  be  needed, 
and  half  a  dozen  glass  jelly  plates  as  well.     For  his 

21 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Stocking    the    Cupboard 

tumblers,  he  would  better  have  them  uniform  and  may 
have  inexpensive  ones  of  blown  glass,  or  beautiful  cut 
glass  ones  at  a  wide  range  in  price.  If  he  elects  to 
have  liquid  refreshments,  then  he  will  get  the  correct 
thing  in  w^ine,  cocktail  and  lemonade  glasses,  with  the 
beloved  steins  of  his  college  days  answering  for  such 
beverages  as  beer,  ale  and  stout. 

Then  in  addition  he  will  need  for  his  table  the  usual 
service  which  would  better  be  of  glass — as  good  as  he 
can  afford.  It  is  really  surprising  what  pretty  and 
good  glassware  may  be  bought  for  a  mere  song.  The 
list  includes: 


I    vinegar    cruet 

I    oil    cruet 

I   water  bottle 

1    Touraine    castor    for    salt, 

black    and   red   pepper 
I   mustard   pot  and  spoon 

1  butter    dish 

2  sugar  bowls  for  cut  and 
pow^dered    sugar 

I    celery    tray 
1   olive  tray 

and  the  following  silver: 

h  dozen  each  forks,  knives, 
steel  knives,  dessert  and 
teaspoons 

1    sugar   spoon    and   tongs 

1   butter  knife 


I    glass   fruit   dish 

1    marmalade   jar 

I    mayonnaise    dish 

1  bread  tray  (preferably 
silver) 

I   china   tea   pot   and  stand 

I  French  copper  coffee  pot 
(expensive  but  a  joy  for- 
ever) 

I  chafing  dish  and  accom- 
panying  utensils 

6  demi  tasses 


1  nut  cracker, 

I   olive  fork 

*   dozen  oyster  forks 

I  carving  set. 


One  may  get  on  nicely  with  these — and  possibly  may 
be    able   to   eliminate   some    from    the   list.     The   nut 


22 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Stocking    the    Cupboard 

cracker  is  useful  for  breaking  lobster  as  well  as  nuts, 
and  the  picks  of  course  will  be  included,  also  fruit 
knives  and  orange  spoons  and  after-dinner  coffee 
spoons,  if  he  can  afford  them.  With  the  list  as  above, 
the  bachelor  may  entertain  very  nicely  on  a  small  scale. 
He  may,  if  he  has  the  time  and  inclination,  pick  up 
veritable  treasures  at  old  auction  rooms  and  second 
hand  shops  in  solid  silver  and  quaint  old  china  that 
will  give  his  dining  service  an  individuality  as  strong 
as  his  pocketbook  will  stand. 

FOR  THE  utensils  and  "  articles  de  cuisine,"  the  fol- 
COOKING  lowing  list  w^ill  be  found  to  embrace  all 
the  things  needed  for  a  very  small  menage: 


I 

covered    agate 

kettle 

2 

mixing    bowls 

I 

tin  oven   to  use 

over  gas 

I 

colander 

2 

large    frying    pans 

I 

chain    dish    cleaner 

2 

small    ones 

2 

covers    for    frying   pans 

I 

quart    measure 

3 

kitchen   knives 

I 

flour    sifter 

3 

forks 

2 

basins 

2 

mixing   spoons 

I 

double  boiler 

I 

measuring    spoon 

3 

oblong    baking 

dns 

I 

graduated    measuring    cup 

2 

small   skillets 

I 

chopping   bowl    and    knife 

1 

strainer 

I 

egg  beater 

1 

toaster 

I 

meat  board 

1 

broiler 

I 

ladle 

I 

dish   pan 

I 

skimmer 

I 

large  tin  pan 

1 

pitcher 

This  sounds  a  lot,  but  you  will  be  surprised  to  see 
the  small  amount  of  space  they  take  w^hen  neatly  hung 
on  the  closet  door  and  placed  on  the  shelf  that  the 
closet  will  doubtless  contain  for  their  reception,     He 

23 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Stocking    the    Cupboard 


must  also  have  a  large  tin  bread  box  for  bread  and 
biscuits.  A  closet  fitted  with  high  shelves  for  the  sup- 
plies might  have  either  drawers  or  low  shelves  for  the 
cooking  utensils.  Then  let  the  dishes  all  be  kept  pro- 
tected from  dust  in  a  cabinet  with  a  glass  door,  w^hich 
may  be  purchased  very  reasonably.  If  that  is  out  of 
the  question,  surely  the  handy  bachelor  may  make 
his  own  china  cupboard,  and  have  some  fair  friend  fash- 
ion a  curtain  for  him  to  hang  in  front. 
THE  Now  for  the  supplies  which  he  must  keep 

SUPPLIES  on  hand.  This  list  includes,  beside  the 
necessities  in  one  column,  the  luxuries  in  the  other. 
These  bought,  he  may  bargain  for  his  milk  and  cream 
to  be  left  at  the  door  and  may  also  arrange  for  his 
butter  and  eggs  as  he  wishes.  Then  the  vegetables, 
fruit,  meat  and  fish  will  be  bought  as  he  requires  them. 
It  is  always  well  to  have  a  few  canned  things  on  hand 
in  case  of  emergencies. 


Necessities 
Salt 

Pepper,  black   and  red 
Soup    herbs    or    poultry    sea- 
soning 
Mustard 

Sugar,  cut  and  powdered 
Ginger 
Macaroni 
Wheat   flour 
Spaghetti 
Indian    meal 
Onions 
Cereal — whatever    desired 


Biscuits  in  variety,  includ- 
ing sweet  biscuits  and 
water    biscuits,    as    wished 

Oil 

Vinegar 

Worcestershire    sauce 

Tabasco   sauce 

Rice 

Laundry  soap 

Coffee 

Tea 

Cocoa 

Condensed    milk    or    cream 

Olives 


24 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 


Stocking    the    Cupboard 


Lard 

Eggs 

Lemons 

Bacon   and  salt  pork  in  jars 

Tinned    soups 

Tinned   fish 

Tinned    vegetables 

Cheese,  American  or  in  jars 
Luxuries 

Pickles 

Curry    powder 

Chutney 

Anchovies  and  Anchovy 
essence 

Kitchen  bouquet 

Tarragon    vinegar 

Tinned    French    vegetables 

Tinned  or  dried  mush- 
rooms 

Tinned  red  peppers 

Marmalade 

Jam 

Potted    meats 

Caper3 

Caviare 

Celery   salt 


Chow  chow 

Macedoine    in    glass 

Mango    pickles 

English    relishes 

Cooking     sherry     and     white 

wines 
Rum  and  brandy 
Bottled    Mayonnaise 
Noodles 

Parmesan  cheese 
Soy 

Tinned  Truffles 
Pate  de   Foie  Gras  tinned  or 

in   jars 
Asparagus    in    glass 
German   sausages   in   jars 
Jellies   for   use   with   game 
Foreign   cheeses 
Preserved    fruits    in    glass 
Irish    bacon 
Virginia    ham 
Garlic 
Caramel 
Essences    of    vanilla,    lemon, 

and   pistachio 
Cocktail    olives  and  cherries 


The  bachelor  in  an  apartment,  who  has  limited 
space  and  wishes  to  confine  his  cookery  to  a  few 
chafing  dish  dainties,  may  invest  properly  in  one  of  the 
handy  chafing  dish  cabinets  that  are  so  attractively 
fashioned  in  mission  style  with  a  "  place  for  every- 
thing." Perchance  he  may  also  have — and  probably 
will — a  cabinet  in  which  to  keep  his  bottles,  mixing 
glasses,  shakers,  etc.,  which  is  styled  appropriately 
enough  "  the  Bachelor  Cabinet." 


25 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Stocking    the    Cupboard 

He  may  get  on  nicely  with  a  half  dozen  plates,  his 
steins,  some  silver  knives,  forks,  and  spoons,  and  possibly 
some  small  plates  for  toast,  bread,  or  biscuits.  These, 
vnth  some  small  dishes  of  cut  glass  for  salted  almonds, 
olives,  celery  and  such  relishes,  will  be  quite  sufficient 
for  ordinary  use.  In  his  cabinet  with  the  chafer  he 
should  have  the  alcohol,  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  Wor- 
cesterhlre  or  Harvey  sauce,  chutney,  paprika,  bicar- 
bonate of  soda,  oil  and  vinegar,  and  possibly  some  an- 
chovy essence,  which  so  Improves  many  chafing  dish 
specialties.  These,  with  some  saltlnes  and  a  jar  of 
potted  cheese — unless  he  desires  some  of  the  more  per- 
ishable varieties — ^will  be  quite  sufficient  with  the  usual 
accompaniments,  In  case  he  wants  to  make  a  rabbit,  an 
English  Monkey,  a  Newburg,  or  some  other  simple  del- 
icacy for  an  after-theater  supper.  The  other  things 
in  the  other  cabinet — what  bachelor  needs  to  be  shown 
what  to  buy?  He  surely  ought  to  have  a  few  bottles 
of  carbonated  water  and  some  limes  always  handy,  as 
well  as  a  little  Imported  ginger  ale  in  case  he  may  en- 
tertain a  teetotaller.  Ginger  ale  Is  not  the  w^orst 
beverage  in  the  world  with  a  good  rabbit,  while  lime 
and  seltzer  is  a  refreshing  drink  at  any  time  in  the 
year. 

The  poor  hall  bedroom  laddie  with  his  pathetic 
makeshift  on  the  w^indow  ledge  may  not  afford  such 
an  elaborate  layout.  But  for  a  dollar  he  may  invest 
either  in  a  little  alcohol  stove  with  a  quart  skillet  in 
which  to  cook  his  cereal  or  boil  water  for  his  tea,  or 

26 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Stocking    the    Cupboard 

buy  a  few  feet  of  tubing  and  a  tiny  gas  stove.  One 
bachelor  who  earned  a  scanty  $15  a  week  made  for 
himself  a  really  attractive  cupboard  from  a  tall  shoe 
box,  perhaps  four  feet  in  height  and  half  as  wide  and 
deep.  It  was  stained,  a  row  of  brass  headed  nails 
driven  around  the  edge,  some  shelves  nicely  fitted  in, 
a  few  hooks  added  and  a  denim  curtain,  and  in  it  was 
his  whole  outfit  nicely  concealed  from  inquisitive  eyes. 
And  he  had  some  feasts  too,  if  they  were  cooked  in  a 
ten-penny  frying  pan  on  his  little  gas  stove.  That 
he  made  his  coffee  in  a  woman's  afternoon  tea  kettle 
with  an  alcohol  lamp  was  his  affair;  and  it  was  nectar. 
His  tastes  were  simple,  at  the  same  time  he  had  a  va- 
riety. In  the  morning,  a  cup  or  two  of  delicious  coffee 
with  condensed  cream,  one  or  two  English  muffins 
nicely  toasted  and  buttered,  a  couple  of  eggs,  fried, 
boiled,  or  scrambled,  as  he  elected,  or  perhaps  poached 
on  a  bit  of  toast,  and  a  bit  of  fruit,  made  a  splendid 
breakfast  for  a  chap  leading  a  sedentary  life.  The 
down-town  luncheon  and  dinner  were  more  elaborate, 
and  if  he  wished  a  bite  in  the  evening  when  a  friend 
dropped  in,  or  he  came  in  late  from  his  weekly  night 
at  the  theatre,  there  were  all  sorts  of  appetizing  things 
to  be  concocted  in  the  tiny  frying  pan,  in  which  a  basin 
was  set  and  surrounded  with  w^ater  in  lieu  of  a  chafing 
dish.  Finally  he  bought  a  double  boiler,  thus  escap- 
ing scalded  fingers  from  too  close  contact  with  steam. 

What  did  he  eat?     The  usual  thing  culled  from  a 
cookery  book  dedicated  to  the  chafing  dish — and  some 

27 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Stocking    the    Cupboard 

concoctions  of  his  own,  which  appear  In  another  chap- 
ter. But  no  one  I  ever  knew  could  do  up  oysters  and 
clams  and  crabs  as  nicely  as  he;  sea  food  was  his 
specialty,  and,  living  on  the  coast,  he  was  able  to  gratify 
this  taste,  even  to  the  extent  of  serving  on  his  one 
table  for  some  admiring  chap  as  delicious  a  Lobster 
Newberg,  devilled  crab,  or  oysters  panned,  California 
pepper — roasted  or  fried,  as  ever  were  tasted.  His 
oysters,  fried  in  oil,  as  MInico  FInelll  used  to  do  them 
In  Philadelphia,  were  luscious. 

His  weekly  bill  was  very  small — but  he  never  made 
the  mistake  of  buying  cheap  things  and  always  Insisted 
upon  the  best  of  butter,  eggs,  and  whatever  else  he 
bought. 

"  I  have  generally  found  that  In  buying  so-called 
'  bargains '  In  edibles,"  he  said,  "  there  is  so  much 
waste  that  it  invariably  pays  to  buy  the  best  of  every- 
thing. The  satisfaction  of  knowing  that  It  Is  the  best 
more  than  makes  up  for  the  few  extra  pennies  spent." 


28 


CHAPTER 


IV 


"Manners  are  of  more  importance  ttan 
laws. " — Burke. 

"What  Is  a  gentleman?  "  a  young 
debutante  naively  asked  of  her  uncle, 
a  club  man  and  "  gentleman  of  the 
old  school."  The  world-old  query 
provoked  the  following  reply  from 
the  man,  who  was  too  wary,  how- 
ever, to  fall  Into  the  pitfall  laid  for 
him. 

"  My  dear,  I  can't  tell  you  In  set 
terms.  It  Is  a  condition  of  being 
that  Is  no  more  definable  than  a 
woman's  charms.  Either  one  Is  or 
isn't  a  gentleman — that's  all." 

"  Has  birth  anything  to  do  with 
It?" 

*'  It  has — and  It  hasn't.  There 
are  men  of  the  bluest  blood  who  are 
hopeless  bounders  and  cads,  and,  on 
the  other  hand,  some  of  the  most  per- 

29 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor     Etiquette 

feet  gentlemen  I  have  ever  met  have  come  of  obscure 
origin  and  plain  beginnings.  The  mere  fact  of  not  be- 
ing well-born,  however,  has  never  kept  a  man  out  of 
a  club  or  society,  nor  would  a  long  pedigree  necessarily 
give  the  entree.  Social  affiliations  are  indispensable, 
however  Inherited  or  acquired.  No  one  can  tell  ex- 
actly what  makes  a  gentleman;  still,  everyone  recog- 
nizes one  the  moment  he  comes  upon  the  scene." 

"A  man's  a  man  for  a'  that,"  says  Bobby  Burns; 
and  after  all,  It's  the  little  things  that  count — that  go 
to  show  whether  a  man  Is  a  gentleman  or  no.  One  w^ho 
wishes  further  Information  upon  this  interesting  subject 
may  do  wtU  to  read  "  John  Halifax,  Gentleman,"  after 
which  he  may  brush  up  on  etiquette.  But  all  the  dic- 
tionaries of  etiquette  in  the  world  will  not  make  a  man 
a  gentleman,  If  he  be  not  kind,  brave,  and  honorable 
in  love  and  business,  truthful,  loyal,  and  reverent. 

Someone  has  said  that  courtesy  is  a  good  imitation 
of  Christianity,  since  most  rules  of  etiquette  are  based 
upon  unselfishness  and  a  proper  regard  for  the  feelings 
of  other  people. 

Most  people  have  heard  of  the  French  king  w^ho 
was  so  well  bred  that  when  one  of  his  friends  dropped 
a  priceless  wine  glass.  Immediately,  as  though  through 
Inadvertence,  broke  one  himself  to  prove  that  such  a 
mischance,  which  might  happen  to  anyone,  was  of  no 
special  consequence. 

There  is,  of  course,  a  distinction  between  good  man- 
ners and  good  form.     The  one  comes  to  a  man  through 

30 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor     Etiquette 

Innate  good  breeding,  the  other  Is  acquired  by  careful 
study  and  a  close  observance  of  the  forms  of  conduct 
that  at  the  moment  are  en  regie. 

"  He  Is  gentll,"  says  Chaucer,  "  who  does  gentll 
deeds."  And  It  has  been  proven  that  habit  Is  second 
nature.  Courtesy,  conciliation,  kindliness,  forbear- 
ance, which  are  the  essence  of  politeness,  w^ere  taught 
by  St.  Paul,  who  was  the  very  model  of  a  gen- 
tleman. Society  has  agreed,  here  and  abroad,  upon 
certain  conventions  which  have  through  countless  gen- 
erations resolved  themselves  Into  a  code — a  decalogue 
of  good  behavior.  The  present  social  code  In  America 
is  patterned  largely  after  usages  In  favor  among  the 
English  upper  classes,  although  occasions  may  arise  In 
which  a  man  Is  a  law  unto  himself.  Daniel  Webster 
once  said,  after  a  visit  In  London,  ''  the  rule  of  polite- 
ness there  Is  to  be  quiet,  act  naturally,  take  no  airs,  and 
make  no  bustle.  This  perfect  breeding  has  cost  a 
great  deal  of  drill."  Bonaparte  studied  deportment 
with  Talma,  a  great  French  actor,  and  his  court  was 
as  carefully  drilled  in  etiquette  as  was  his  army  in  mil- 
itary tactics. 

"  Good  manners  Inspired  by  good  principles, 
prompted  by  goodfellowship,  polished  by  good  form, 
w^ill  admit  a  man  to  good  society  anyw^here,"  says  Mrs. 
Burton  Harrison,  who  is  one  of  the  highest  authori- 
ties on  etiquette.  The  cultured  manner  of  to-day  Is 
simple,  cordial,  and  free  from  all  affectation. 

As  It  Is  assumed  that  the  bachelor  of  to-day  Is  well 

31 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor     Etiquette 

versed  in  savoir  faire,  only  a  few  general  rules  and  a 
few  miscellaneous  hints  will  be  given  here  as  to  the 
etiquette  of  bachelor  entertainments. 

The  American  man,  because  of  the  exac- 
CALLS  ^i^^g  ^£  business,  Is  permitted  to  pay  calls 

in  the  evening  and  on  Sunday  afternoons.  In  the 
large  cities  he  may  present  himself  with  propriety  as 
late  as  nine  in  the  evening;  in  the  country,  half-after 
eight  is  the  limit  generally  set,  while  one  seldom 
arrives  earlier  than  half-after  seven.  Sunday  after- 
noon calls  may  not  be  made  earlier  than  three  o'clock. 
In  the  country,  morning  calls  are  often  made,  and  a 
man  may  always,  of  course,  call  on  a  lady's  day  at 
home,  if  he  can  arrange  to  do  so.  A  dinner  call  is  a 
matter  of  paramount  Importance,  and  a  man  must 
also  pay  a  "  duty  call  "  after  receiving  any  hospitality, 
within  a  fortnight  of  the  invitation,  whether  the  Invi- 
tation is  accepted  or  not.  He  must  also  call  upon  the 
bride  whose  cards  he  has  received,  directly  after  she 
returns  from  the  honeymoon.  A  man  who  has  served 
as  pall  bearer  at  a  funeral  should  call  upon  the  be- 
reaved family  within  three  weeks,  though  this  call 
rarely  means  more  than  the  leaving  of  a  card  with  a 
kindly  Inquiry.  After  a  man  has  paid  a  duty  call,  he 
should  not  call  again,  unless  requested  to  do  so,  or 
unless  his  hostess  extends  further  hospitality  to  him. 
A  man  may  not  take  another  man  friend  to  call  upon 
a  lady  unless  he  has  first  received  her  permission  to 
do  so.     A  man  who  wishes  to  make  the  acquaintance 

32 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor     Etiquette 

of  a  young  lady  through  a  friend  must  call  in  com- 
pany of  the  friend  the  first  time,  after  which,  if  she 
wishes  to  receive  him,  he  may  call  alone. 

When  a  woman  has  been  entertained  by  a  bachelor 
at  his  apartments,  she  leaves  a  card  for  him,  accom- 
panied by  that  of  her  chaperone. 

In  paying  calls,  a  man  may  take  his  hat  and  stick 
into  the  drawing-room  if  he  prefers,  although  the  serv- 
ant generally  takes  them  in  the  hall. 

A  man  who  receives  callers  at  his  apartments  should 
accompany  each  departing  guest  to  the  door,  and  open 
the  door  for  him;  he  may  with  propriety  show  the 
ladies  to  their  carriages,  although  this  is  not  obliga- 
tory. 

It  is  the  duty  of  a  man  when  calling  to  relieve 
women  of  empty  teacups  and  to  carry  refreshments  to 
those  who  are  sitting  at  a  distance  from  the  tea-table. 
He  must  rise  from  his  chair  when  a  woman  caller 
enters  and  when  anyone  is  presented  to  him.  When 
he  rises  he  should  stand  beside  or  behind  his  chair,  and 
continue  to  stand  as  long  as  the  lady  on  whose  ac- 
count he  has  risen  remains  standing. 

A  man  calling  on  Sunday  afternoon  should  ask  for 
"  the  ladies  "  when  the  mother  has  extended  an  invi- 
tation for  him  to  call.  After  the  first  call  he  may  ask 
for  "  the  young  ladies,"  or  the  particular  one  for 
whom  his  visit  is  intended. 

A  very  formal  afternoon  call  should  occupy  not  less 
than  fifteen  minutes  and  not  more  than  half  an  hour. 

33 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor     Etiquette 

On  the  hostess'  day  at  home  one  may  linger  an  hour 
or  longer. 

Concerning  business  calls,  in  which  a  woman  calls 
upon  a  man  in  his  office,  he  need  not  offer  to  shake 
hands  unless  she  be  an  old  friend.  Should  his  time  be 
limited  or  other  people  be  in  his  private  office,  he  may 
meet  her  in  the  public  office  or  even  the  corridor.  He 
must  always  remove  his  hat,  and  if  he  wishes  her  to 
be  brief,  may  courteously  explain  that  pressing  affairs 
necessitate  his  immediate  attendance.  In  his  office,  a 
man  rises  also  when  a  woman  caller  rises  to  leave, 
and  if  the  interview  has  taken  place  in  his  private 
office,  convention  demands  that  he  open  the  door  for 
her.  He  need  not  go  beyond  the  door  with  her,  al- 
though if  she  is  a  friend  or  relative  he  will  doubtless 
wish  to  see  her  safely  to  the  elevator. 

A  business  address  should  never  appear  on  a  visit- 
ing card,  although  his  home  address  or  that  of  his  club 
may  appear  in  the  corner,  his  permanent  address  ap- 
pearing in  the  right-hand  corner.  Not  infrequently 
his  home  address  appears  in  the  right-hand  corner  and 
his  favorite  club  in  the  corner  opposite. 
BACHELOR  It  is  quite  the  fashion  nowadays  for  the 
HOSPI-  well-to-do  bachelor,  even  if  he  has  no  near 
TALITIES  women  relatives  to  assist  him,  to  entertain 
his  women  friends  in  his  own  apartments,  at  his  club,  or 
at  a  hotel.  The  city  bachelor  of  to-day  is  not  a  home- 
less man  whose  life  is  divided  between  his  house  of  busi- 
ness and  his  boarding-house  bedroom.     If  he  is  pros- 

34 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor     Etiquette 

parous  in  his  profession,  he  lives  in  a  suite  of  pretty 
rooms  in  a  studio  or  in  a  small  suite  in  bachelor 
apartments,  or  possibly  in  a  hotel.  And  even  a  man  of 
average  salary  may  afford  a  large,  tastefully-decorated 
room  in  which  to  set  up  his  Lares  and  Penates,  where 
he  can  entertain  in  a  small  way. 

Of  course  he  has  some  matron  to  act  as  chaperone, 
and  the  easiest  and  safest  form  of  entertainment  is  an 
afternoon  reception.  At  this  he  may  repay  some  of 
the  many  hospitalities  vi^hich  eligible  bachelors  always 
receive. 

Just  a  word  from  a  clever  hostess  of  international 
popularity  may  not  be  amiss.  Apropos  of  the  prevail- 
ing impression — which  is  generally  correct — that  the 
unmarried  man  is  so  persistently  certain  that  he  is  wel- 
come everywhere,  and  that  when  he  lunches  or  dines 
at  a  house  he  confers  a  favor,  this  grande  dame  says: 
"  The  bachelor  is  the  most  ungrateful  of  guests,  as  a 
rule.  He  w^ill  accept  my  invitation,  lunch  or  dine  at 
my  house  three  or  four  times  in  a  week  all  the  year 
round,  and  still  continue  to  speak  of  those  who  lib- 
erally entertain  him  as  a  mere  acquaintance  unless  they 
happen  to  be  more  than  usually  prominent — and  then 
reward  them  with  nothing  better  than  a  picture  post- 
card at  Christmas !  " 

Possibly  this  woman's  indignation  may  be  well- 
founded — for  it  is  a  fact  that  bachelors  are  in  such 
demand  that  they  come  to  realize  their  own  social  im- 
portance  perhaps   better   than   their   hostesses   do.     A 

35 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor     Etiquette 

man  of  tact  may  express  his  appreciation  of  continued 
courtesies  and  entertainments  by  sending  an  occa- 
sional gift,  such  as  a  book,  or  some  roses,  or  even 
matinee  or  concert  tickets  for  his  hostess  and  her  daugh- 
ters or  some  friend  whom  she  may  be  entertaining. 


36 


CHAPTER    V 

"  Give  me  a  lodge  in  some  vast  wilder- 
ness. " 

Life  in  camp,  from  the  Atlantic  to 
the  Pacific,  In  the  mountains  and  by 
the  sea  or  Inland  lakes  and  rivers,  has 
a  peculiar  charm,  not  the  least  of 
which  Is  found  In  the  camp  cookery. 
Epicures  whose  palates  are  tired  of 
entrees  and  game  In  city  restaurants, 
who  fret  and  fume  If  their  planked 
steak  Is  not  to  their  liking,  or  If  the 
after-dinner  coffee  has  not  the  de- 
sired soupqon  of  chicory,  will  eat  like 
lumbermen  when  fed  upon  camp  ra- 
tions, with  never  a  word  save  of 
praise  for  the  camp  cook.  Possibly  It's 
a  matter  of  environment ;  for  Mother 
Nature  has  a  way  of  soothing  tired 
nerves  and  of  tickling  jaded  palates 
to    such   an    extent    that    the   hum- 


37 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
Around    the    Camp    Fire 

blest  fare  is  fit  for  a  king,  and  the  muddiest  camp 
coffee  nectar  to  the  tired,  hungry  man  just  in  from 
a  day's  fishing  or  hunting  in  the  wilds. 

Most  men  who  camp  do  not  need  to  be  told  the 
little  things  that  combine  to  make  camping  comfort- 
able: how  to  dig  a  trench  around  the  tent  and  how  to 
make  a  stone  fireplace  or  a  stove  from  rocks  and  an  old 
stove-top;  or  how  to  shave  off  fir  boughs  for  a  hard 
but  fragrant  bed. 

They  all  know  that  a  deep  hole  should  be  dug  some 
distance  from  camp  in  w^hich  to  throw  refuse  and 
debris,  covering  it  daily  with  fresh  earth,  which  so 
quickly  kills  all  odors.  They  know  the  staple  rations 
to  be  taken — prepared  flour  for  griddle-cakes  and  hot 
bread,  with  rising  already  in  it ;  salt  pork,  smoked  ham 
and  bacon,  dried  beef,  salt  fish  in  case  the  fresh  ones 
fail  to  bite;  pilot-bread,  crackers,  and  biscuit  of  all 
sorts,  potatoes,  beans,  onions,  canned  fruit  and  vege- 
tables where  fresh  cannot  be  obtained ;  Indian  meal, 
salt,  sugar,  pepper,  mustard,  molasses,  vinegar,  butter, 
tea,  coffee,  chocolate — powdered  and  sw^eet — rice,  oat- 
meal, baking  soda,  ginger,  spice,  soap,  paraffin  candles, 
matches,  and  kerosene  oil.  These  and  such  luxuries 
as  milord  demands  compass  the  culinary  needs. 

But  lest  he  forget — and  it's  so  easy  to  do  that  in  the 
excitement  of  going  into  camp — a  list  of  other  necessi- 
ties may  not  come  amiss,  and  it  includes  tin  kettles 
with  covers,  spiders  with  covers,  coffee  and  tea  pots 
with  lips  instead  of  spouts,  gridiron,  pans,  basins,  tin 

38 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Around    the    Camp    Fire 

cups,  pails,  milk  cans,  knives,  forks,  spoons,  lanterns, 
bags  (paper  and  "gunny"  sacks),  strings,  thread, 
needles,  matches,  shovel,  axe  and  hatchet,  hammer, 
tacks  and  nails,  sticking  plaster,  Jamaica  ginger,  towels 
and  bath  towels,  dishpan,  dish  towels  and  cloth,  pins, 
mosquito  netting,  oil  of  pennyroyal  if  In  fly  season, 
plenty  of  old  newspapers,  fishing  tackle,  guns,  ammuni- 
tion, and  last  of  all,  extra  stockings  and  flannel  gar- 
ments. If  flannel  Is  worn,  one  should  never  take  cold 
even  after  a  thorough  soaking;  but  of  cotton  and  linen, 
for  use  In  camp  or  on  ranch,  beware!  Parties  scorning 
the  Idea  of  bothering  with  all  these  things  when  rough- 
ing-It  will  find  camp  life  quite  rough  enough,  even  with 
the  things  provided  that  are  mentioned  In  the  list. 
The  need  of  a  match  or  a  pin  or  string  can  never  be 
realized  until  one  has  had  to  do  without  them  In  camp 
or  on  the  water. 

Every  man  who  cooks  shines  at  his  best  when  In 
camp  or  being  chef  In  the  open.  The  guides  In  the 
Rangeleys  can  cook  a  trout  to  perfection,  while  the 
half-breeds  of  Canadian  jungles,  could  show  a  New 
York  chef  a  thing  or  two  about  cooking  a  partridge.  A 
cowboy  out  on  a  round-up  can  concoct  as  toothsome  a 
stew  or  "  Mulligan  "  as  was  ever  served  up  as  ragout  m 
a.  Broadway  restaurant  or  French  ''  Bouillon  '*  kitchen. 
A  lonely  prospector  can  show  one  a  little  about  broil- 
ing bacon  and  frying  flap-jacks,  and  when  It  comes  to 
broiling  a  beefsteak  or  grilling  a  chop,  a  New  York 
club  man  is  generally  a  past  master  at  the  art,  espe- 

39 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Around    the    Camp    Fire 

cially  if  he  is  a  member  of  the  famous  Beefsteak  Club. 
And  when  a  New  Yorker  gets  into  camp  and  wants  to 
do  the  cooking — let  him;  he  knows. 
THE  in    camp    cooking,    broiled    fish,    or    roast 

VALUE  OF  birds,  has  been  demonstrated  long  since 
BASTING  |3y  famous  Maine  guides.  Billy  Soule,  for 
instance,  broils  his  trout  before  a  clear,  brisk  fire,  with 
thin  strips  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  fastened  with  tooth- 
picks so  that  the  fat  trying  out  will  run  continually 
down  over  the  fish,  basting  it  as  it  broils.  In  roasting 
a  bird,  pieces  of  bacon  or  pork  are  skewered  on  in  the 
same  fashion. 

A  NOTED  ^^^^^  ^^  ^^^"  fishing  the  streams  in  the 
BOSTON  vicinity  of  Colebrook,  N.  H.,  for  several 
BON  years,  tells  of  a  camp  dinner  cooked  by  him- 

VIVANT  ggjf  ^^^  comrades  which  is  really  worthy 
of  repetition.  *'  One  of  the  boys,"  he  says,  "  went 
down  to  a  farmhouse  near  the  river  at  noon,  after  a 
morning's  fishing,  and  for  a  quarter  bought  a  dozen 
eggs  and  a  couple  of  quarts  of  potatoes  with  a  handful 
of  salt  thrown  in.  We  made  a  hot  fire,  and  let  it  die 
down.  Then  one  of  us  cleaned  and  washed  the  trout, 
and  after  wrapping  them  in  several  thicknesses  of 
green  leaves,  coated  them  on  the  outside  with  mud. 
We  also  coated  each  egg  thickly  with  mud,  making 
them  look  like  giant  wasps'  nests.  After  the  fire 
had  died  down  sufficiently  we  laid  the  fish  and  eggs 
in  the  ashes,  also  the  potatoes,  covering  them  well 
with  the  hot  ashes.     This  done,  we  then  built  another 

40 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Around    the    Camp    Fire 

hot  fire  over  the  original  one.  When  the  edibles  were 
done,  we  raked  them  out  with  sticks,  and  stripping  off 
the  outside  layer  of  mud  from  the  fish,  the  charred 
leaves  and  skin  came  off  w^ith  it,  leaving  a  delicious, 
perfectly-cooked,  salmon  pink  or  w^hite  meat.  The 
mud  was  cracked  off  the  eggs  and  they  tasted  like  the 
hard-boiled  variety.  And  as  for  the  potatoes,  they 
were  quite  good  enough,  even  with  salt  as  the  only 
seasoning.  The  meal  was  fit  for  an  epicure — and  best 
of  all,  there  were  no  dishes  to  wash." 

FOR  A  in   autumn,  w^hen   the   deer  has  not  been 

CAMP  sighted,    or   the    grouse   prove   too    nimble 

DINNER  £qj.  amateur  hunters,  a  camp  dinner  like 
the  following  one  may  be  relished  and  put  the  men 
on  their  mettle  for  the  coming  sport: 

Hard-boil  as  many  eggs  as  there  are  to  be  guests — 
and  then  as  many  more  as  they  agree  to  eat.  Boil 
potatoes  until  nearly  done,  then  drain  them  dry  and 
slice  into  a  skillet  in  which  thin  slices  of  bacon  are 
crisping.  In  another  dish  shred  a  little  salt  cod,  cover 
with  boiling  w^ater,  and  cook  until  the  fish  is  tender 
and  the  water  has  evaporated.  Add  a  cup  of  sw^eet 
cream  to  this — and  if  near  a  farm  this  is  worth  tramp- 
ing after.  Then  when  the  potatoes  are  brow^ning 
nicely,  turn  the  fish  and  cream  over  them  and  add  a 
little  pepper.  The  eggs  should  be  put  in  cold  water 
when  done,  and  peeled.  The  salt  of  fish  and  bacon 
will  be  sufficient  for  seasoning.  To  serve,  pile  the 
potato  mixture  on  a  large  hot  platter  and  surround 

41 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Around    the    Camp    Fire 

with  the  eggs.  This  Is  called  a  "  Shaker  "  dinner — 
but  It's  good  an}^vhere.  Evaporated  or  condensed 
cream  may  be  used  Instead  of  fresh  cream.  The  Bor- 
den brand  Is  best,  as  It  Is  less  sweet  than  most  others. 

ROASTED  In  camp,  birds,  either  small  or  large,  are 
BIRDS  commonly     roasted,     broiled,     or    stewed. 

Pick  all  the  feathers  off,  cut  a  slit  and  draw  them. 
Wash  and  wipe  carefully  with  a  towel.  If  for  roast- 
ing, tie  the  legs  together  and  place  In  the  pan,  dredging 
with  flour.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  water. 
Grouse  and  partridge  require  about  thirty  minutes  and 
most  wild  ducks  the  same,  notwithstanding  the  epi- 
cures protest  that  they  should  have  but  from  twelve  to 
fourteen  minutes.  Small  birds  will  require  only  about 
half  that  time,  but  the  oven  must  be  very  hot.  Maine 
guides  who  cook  partridges  In  their  feathers  know  that 
It  Is  the  only  real  way  to  do  them  at  their  best.  The 
bird  Is  opened  and  drawn  In  the  usual  manner;  then  It 
is  covered  with  w^et  clay  and  burled  In  hot  coals  and 
cooked  for  forty  minutes.  Draw  from  the  coals  and 
peel  off  the  clay,  and  with  It  will  come  feathers  and 
skin.  Most  men  prefer  them  to  the  regulation  roast- 
ing— and  where  an  oven  Is  not  obtainable,  It  Is  the 
best  method. 

BROILED     are    split    and    cleaned,    wiped    dry,    and 
BIRDS  broiled  either  on  a  wire  broiler  or  forked 

stick  over  the  clear  coals,  from  a  wood  fire.     Ten  or 
fifteen  minutes  Is  generally  sufficient  for  this. 

42 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Around    the    Camp    Fire 

TO  STEW  grouse,  or  wild  pigeons,  place  the  birds  In 
PAR-  a  small  kettle  and  dredge  with  salt,  pep- 

TRIDGE  pgj.^  flour,  and,  If  liked,  mace  and  cloves,  to 
give  a  true  epicurean  touch.  After  simmering  two 
hours,  thicken  with  three  spoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  In 
two  spoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup.  Simmer  an  hour 
longer,  and  serve. 

AN  OLD  Here  Is  an  old  camper's  recipe  for  cooking 
CAMPER'S  partridge  and  grouse,  and  It  can't  be  beaten. 
RECIPE  Q^^  ^p  ^j^g  birds  as  for  a  fricassee.  Fry 
them  In  a  frying-pan  In  butter  or  salt  pork  fat  until 
brown,  dredging  with  flour,  salt,  and  pepper.  This 
makes  them  a  delicious  golden  brown.  When  tender, 
take  out  the  pieces  and  put  them  on  a  platter  on  pieces 
of  toast.  Then  turn  Into  the  brown  fat  a  cup  of  sweet 
cream,  stir  quickly,  and  when  it  crinkles  with  scalding, 
turn  over  the  platter  of  meat. 

A  for  birds,  when  broiled.  Is  made  by  putting 

GOOD  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  j;  frying-pan. 

SAUCE  When  It  has  melted,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  stir  until  brown,  then  add  a  cup  of  boiling 
water,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

BROOK  Does  a  rule  for  cooking  brook  trout  seem 
TROUT  amiss  here  ?  Of  course  almost  every  bach- 
elor knows  how,  or  ninety  and  nine  In  an  hundred.  But 
for  the  hundredth  man,  here  goes:  Split  the  trout  nearly 
to  the  tail  to  clean,  leaving  heads  off  or  on,  as  preferred. 
Wash    and    drain,    wipe,    and    dip    in    a    mixture    of 

43 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Around    the    Camp    Fire 

half  flour  and  half  Indian  meal  and  a  little  salt. 
For  a  dozen  good-sized  trout,  fry  six  slices  of  salt 
pork.  When  brown,  take  out  the  pork  and  put  In 
the  trout  and  fry,  first  on  one  side,  then  on 
the  other,  until  a  golden  brown.  Serve  the  pork 
with  them.  Smelts  may  be  cooked  in  the  same 
fashion. 

SALMON     should  be  split  down  the  back,  when  large 
TROUT        enough,  cleaned,  wiped,  and  rubbed  with 
oil  or  butter,   then  broiled   over  clear  coals.     When 
small,  cook  the  same  as  brook  trout. 
SALT  Sometimes,  even  In  camp,  there  are  times 

FISH  of  a  morning  when,  for  some  special  rea- 

son, a  piece  of  salt  fish  would  taste  good.  Cut  from 
the  thickest  part  of  the  fish  squares  of  desired  size. 
Remove  skin,  wash,  and  broil  over  clear  coals  ten 
minutes,  then  dip  in  boiling  water,  butter,  and  serve. 
Excellent  In  '*  that  cold  gray  dawn,"  don't  you 
know. 

FRYING  "  Spoff  "  Flint  was  a  famous  guide  on  the 
SALT  Magalloway   River  who  used  to  fry  salt 

PORK  pQj.j^  -j^  batter,  when  he  had  milk  to  do  it 

with.  A  batter  was  made  with  a  cup  of  flour  to  a  cup 
of  milk,  to  which  was  added  a  little  salt  and  a  beaten 
egg.  Fry  some  thin  slices  of  pork  slightly,  then  dip  in 
the  batter  and  fry  in  pork  fat  to  which  two  spoonfuls 
of  drippings  or  lard  have  been  added.  With  potatoes 
roasted  m  the  hot  ashes  that  is  fit  for  any  King  that 
ever  sat  a  throne. 

44 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Around    the    Camp    Fire 

BEEF-  smothered  in  onions  is  a  good  camp  dish — 

STEAK  and  venison  or  bear  steak  may  be  cooked 
in  the  same  manner  by  way  of  variety.  Fry  brown 
four  slices  of  salt  pork ;  when  brown  take  out  the  pork 
and  slice  in  thinly  six  good  sized  onions.  Fry  about 
ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while,  then  take  out  all 
save  a  thin  layer.  On  this  lay  the  sliced  steak,  then 
a  layer  of  onions,  then  steak,  and  cover  thick  with 
onions.  Dredge  each  layer  w^ith  salt,  pepper,  and 
flour.  Pour  over  this  a  cupful  of  boiling  water 
and  cover  tight.  Simmer  over  a  hot  fire  half  an 
hour. 

FOR  wash  a  quart  of  dry  pea  beans — the  Cali- 

BOSTON  fornias  are  best.  Put  in  a  pan  with  six 
BAKED  quarts  of  cold  water  and  let  them  soak 
BEANS  Qygj.  night.  In  the  morning  wash  again 
and  put  them  on  the  fire  with  cold  water  and  a  pinch 
of  baking  soda.  When  the  skins  begin  to  crinkle  drain 
off  the  water  and  put  in  the  bean-pot.  Have  a  gener- 
ous piece  of  salt  pork,  gashed  through  the  rind,  and 
put  it  on  top  of  the  beans  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
molasses,  one  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of 
mustard,  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  An  onion 
may  be  added  if  desired.  Bake  ten  hours,  either  In 
the  oven  or  in  the  ground.  If  the  latter,  dig  a  hole 
large  enough  for  the  pot,  which  should  be  surrounded 
with  hot  stones.  Then  cover  and  build  a  hot  fire 
over  them.  They  should  be  watched  carefully,  and 
if  they  become  dry,  pour  in  more  water. 

45 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Around    the    Camp    Fire 

CORN  Somehow,  corn  dodgers  seem  particularly 

DODGERS  to  belong  to  camp  fare.  Take  three  tea- 
cups of  Indian  meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  pour  on  enough  boiling  water 
to  wet  It — nearly  one  quart.  Then  make  Into  small 
flat  cakes,  about  one  inch  thick,  and  fry  In  boiling  fat 
until  golden  brown.  They  will  fry  in  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes. 

FRIED  Would  you  fancy  some  fried  mush  in  camp 

MUSH  with    the    game?     Well,    then,    into    two 

quarts  of  boiling  water  stir  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and 
one  cup  of  flour  mixed  with  a  quart  of  Indian  meal,  or 
more,  if  needed  to  make  stiff  enough.  Beat  It  well  to 
remove  lumps  and  bo*Il  gently  two  hours,  and  then 
turn  into  deep  bread  tins  to  cool.  In  the  morning 
slice  off  thick  slices  and  fry  golden  brown  in  salt 
pork  fat,  serving  slices  of  pork  with  it,  and  syrup,  if 
desired. 

FOR  which  are    made  with  the  prepared  flour, 

SPIDER  mix  one  pint  flour  with  half  a  pint  of  milk 
CAKES  Qj-  water.  Have  the  griddle  smoking' hot, 
and  grease  with  a  piece  of  pork  or  bacon  rind,  then 
pour  half  the  mixture  into  it.  Smooth  with  a  spoon 
and  cook  four  minutes,  or  until  the  top  forms  minute 
bubbles.  Then  turn  the  cake  and  cook  four  minutes 
longer.  Take  up,  grease  the  pan  again,  and  cook  the 
balance.  If  preferred,  the  batter  can  be  fried  in  small 
cakes  instead  of  two  large  ones. 

46 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Around    the    Camp    Fire 

GINGER-  Every  camp  cook  should  know  how  to  make 
BREAD  gingerbread.  Somehow,  nothing  else  In 
the  cake  line  seems  to  fill  the  bill  like  hot  gingerbread. 
To  make  It,  take  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of 
saleratus,  one  of  ginger,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or 
lard,  and.  If  lard  Is  used,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  to- 
gether and  then  pour  over  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
and  a  pint  of  sifted  flour.  Bake  about  one  Inch  deep 
on  a  tin  sheet  In  a  quick  oven. 

WILD  It   Is  well   to   remember  that  wild   ducks 

DUCKS  that  have  a  fishy  odor  may  be  Improved  by 
rubbing  the  breast  lightly  with  a  slice  of  onion  and 
putting  Into  the  bird,  when  cooking,  half  a  dozen  raw 
cranberries.  The  mountain  cranberries  may  be  used 
Instead  of  the  Cape  berries.  A  handful  of  the  small 
mountain  variety  will  be  sufficient. 

TO  Cut  the  tenderloins  of  a  buck  that  has  been 

COOK  properly  hung  for  at  least  five  days,  into 

VENISON  pieces  an  inch  thick  and  two  inches  In  di- 
ameter. Skewer  these  on  a  small  willow  stick,  with 
pieces  of  bacon  judiciously  strung  along  the  line. 
Sprinkle  the  whole  with  finely-chopped  onion,  red  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  roast  over  the  coals.  Do  not  hesitate 
to  make  this  a  full  yard  of  lusclousness,  for  the  morsels 
will  melt  in  the  mouth,  and  one  seems  never  to  have 
enough.  Some  men  affirm  that  the  deer's  liver  is  the 
greatest  delicacy,  and  indeed  It  is,  when  properly 
cooked  with  salt  pork;  and  if  there  is  any  left  over, 

47 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Around    the    Camp    Fire 


which  is  quite  unlikely,  just  try  making  liver  hash 
with  the  chopped  liver,  cold  boiled  potatoes  chopped 
fine,  and  a  suspicion  of  onion.  Cook  the  whole  to- 
gether in  salt  pork  or  bacon  fat. 

If  you  are  in  camp  during  sweet  corn  time, 
after  you  have  become  tired  of  boiled  corn 
and  roasted  ears,  try  baked  corn  and  beans 
in  your  Saturday  night  meal.  Prepare  a 
pot  of  Boston  baked  beans  in  the  usual  way.  About 
half  an  hour  before  serving  time,  have  plenty  of  the 
corn  cut  from  the  cob,  and,  removing  the  pork,  stir  the 
cut  corn  well  into  the  beans  and  cook  half  an  hour 
longer.     This  is  delicious — and  will  bear  repetition. 


BAKED 
CORN 
AND 
BEANS 


48 


CHAPTER 

rrrr 

"A  man  hatt  often  more  trouble  to 
get  food  than  to  digest  it. " 

Who  has  said  that  "  the  carving 
knife  is  mightier  than  the  sword"? 
But  in  spite  of  that  fact,  how  few 
there  are  in  proportion  to  the  number 
of  diners  out  who  know  how  to 
wield  it! 

"  There  is  no  sight  more  delight- 
ful," says  May  Irwin,  "  than  to  see  a 
man  cai've  at  table.  The  dexterous 
grace  with  which  the  expert  carver 
slices  off  a  bit  of  breast  from  a  bird 
or  disjoints  a  fowl  makes  me  hold 
my  breath  in  admiration  and  awe." 

Truly,  a  carver,  like  a  poet,  is  born, 
not  made ;  yet  any  man  with  practice 
may  acquire  this  somewhat  difficult 
art,  and  it  is  an  accomplishment  that 
every  man  should  enjoy,  for  he  never 
knows  where  or  when   he  may  be 

49 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Carving    and    Game 

called  upon  to  do  the  honors.  It  is  quite  the  fashion 
now  for  women  to  learn  carving,  and  at  the  cooking 
schools  there  is  special  instruction  given  ladies  in  the  art. 
But  for  men,  who  are  deprived  of  such  instruction,  the 
best  school  is  experience,  which  coupled  with  an  oc- 
casional judicious  tip  to  a  head  waiter,  v/ho  is  supposed 
to  be  a  past  grand  master  of  carving,  should  make  him 
sufficiently  dexterous  in  a  short  time  to  negotiate  a 
joint  without  sending  it  into  the  lap  of  his  vis-a-vis  or 
splashing  the  festive  board  with  brown  gravy. 

First,  the  carver  should  learn  to  gauge  his  cuts  to  a 
nicety.  He  must  measure  satisfactorily  the  appetites 
of  those  whom  he  serves,  and  not  judge  them  by  his 
own.  This  judgment,  coupled  with  a  sharp  knife  and 
trusty  steel  and  a  measure  of  confidence  in  his  ability 
to  wield  both,  is  all  that  is  necessar}^ 

FISH,  is  difficult  to  serve  nicely.     In  carving  a 

IF  BOILED  cod,  halibut,  lake  trout,  or  other  large  fish 
that  are  served  whole,  it  is  best  to  make 
one  cut  from  the  head  to  the  tail  down  to 
the  bone,  and  then  cut  slices  across  from  this  line  to 
the  sides.  As  codfish  is  apt  to  break  into  flakes,  care 
should  be  taken  in  serving  from  the  fish  knife  not  to 
spill  the  flakes  on  their  way  to  the  plate.  In  carving 
salmon,  draw  the  fish  knife  across  the  center  of  the 
fish  down  to  the  bone  from  head  to  tail.  Then 
cut  slices  from  the  center,  and  add  to  each  a 
small   slice   of   the   thin   part  which   is   not   quite  so 

50 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Carving    and    Game 

pronounced  in  flavor.  A  sole  of  ordinary  size  may  be 
divided,  like  Gaul,  into  three  parts.  A  small  sole  is 
cut  across  in  half,  and  a  very  large  sole,  like  those 
served  au  gratiuj  is  generally  cut  in  slices  like  a  salmon, 
and  the  slices  lifted  on  each  side,  thus  avoiding  the 
small  bones  that  edge  each  side  of  the  fish. 
GROUSE  Thin  slices  should  be  first  cut  off  the  breast, 
AND  after  vi^hich    the   wings   and   legs   are   re- 

PHEASANT  j^Q^gj^  In  cutting  off  a  wing  the  carver 
should  also  try  to  get  a  strip  of  the  breast  (though  a 
thin  one)  to  attach  to  it. 

DUCK  A  great  deal  depends,  in  carving  a  duck, 

upon  its  size  and  fatness.  A  large,  fat  duck,  with 
plenty  of  meat  on  the  breast,  is  carved  like  a  goose. 
Thin  slices  are  cut  off  its  breast,  and  then  the  duck  is 
turned  endways  toward  the  carver,  the  wings  nearest 
and  the  legs  farthest  from  him.  Remove  the  wings, 
leaving  a  thin  strip  of  breast  attached  to  each.  This 
requires  considerable  dexterity.  Next  remove  the  legs 
and  afterward  the  neck  bone.  The  whole  breast-bone 
is  now  separated  from  the  rest  by  cutting  through  the 
sides,  when  the  backbone  can  easily  be  divided  in  two 
by  pressing  dow^nwards.  A  small  quantity  of  the  stuf- 
fing should  be  served  with  each  portion. 
FOWL  A  wag  who  was  a  guest  at  a  dinner  where 

the  host,  an  ostentatious  man,  allowed  the  fowl  to  get 
cold  while  expatiating  upon  the  beauty  of  the  gildings 
of  frame  and  sconce  in  his  newly  decorated  dining-room, 

51 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Carving    and    Game 

said  Impatiently,  "  Never  mind  your  gilding — give  us  a 
taste  of  your  carving!  "  Boiled  and  roasted  fowls  are 
carved  alike.  Care  should  be  taken  to  cut  oil  plenty  of 
the  white  meat  of  the  breast  with  the  wings,  the  knife 
being  slowly  drawn  and  downward  pressure  avoided, 
as  the  boiled  white  flesh  is  apt  to  crumble.  The  front 
end  of  the  fowl  should  be  toward  the  carver.  Insert 
the  fork  In  the  leg  with  the  knife  underneath  In  re- 
moving the  leg  and  thigh,  and  then  raise  the  leg  away 
from  the  remainder  of  the  bird.  The  leg  adheres  only 
by  a  piece  of  skin,  so  this  Is  simple.  The  thigh  bone 
will  now  leave  the  socket,  and  with  very  little  assistance 
from  the  knife  the  leg  will  be  set  free.  The  neckbone 
is  next  removed,  and  then  the  breast  separated  from  the 
carcass  by  cutting  the  thin  rib  bones  through  on  either 
side.  The  liver,  wing,  and  breast  are  esteemed  the 
choicest  parts  in  America,  and  everyone  who  has  trav- 
eled In  Europe  Is  familiar  with  the  extra  charge  for 
a  portion  of  fowl  with  which  a  wing  is  served. 

QUAIL,  are  best  carved  by  being  cut  In  half  right 
PAR-  through  the  breast  and  back,  cutting  down 

TRIDGE        close  to  the  breast-bone.     Each  half  Is  suf- 

AND  r    '  11 

PIGEONS      "Cient,  with  the  accompanymg  toast,  cress, 
and  jelly,  for  a  portion. 

TURKEY  In  carving  these,  endeavor  to  obtain  as 
AND  many    slices   as   possible    from    the    breast. 

GOOSE  This  also  obtains  in  carving  a  domestic 
duck.     Cut  off  the  meat  close  to  the  breast  bone  down 

52 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Carving    and    Game 

to  the  wing  bone.  When  the  thigh  is  eaten  hot,  the 
drumstick  can  be  separated  from  the  thigh  and  the 
meat  on  the  thigh  cut  off.  But  when  not  wanted,  it 
is  better  removed  whole. 

SIRLOIN  "  Ply  me,  try  me,  prove  ere  you  deny  me!  " 
OF  BEEF  sang  Apollo.  If  a  sirloin  is  properly 
roasted  there  may  be  a  portion  served  to  the  liking  of 
each  guest  from  the  crisp  brown  top  of  the  roast  to  the 
blood-rare,  juicy  center  for  the  epicure.  A  sirloin 
may  be  divided  in  tw^o  parts,  the  under-cut  of  fillet  and 
the  top  or  rump.  It  is  usual  to  carve  the  under-cut 
first  and  not  to  begin  on  the  upper  part  until  the  other 
cut  is  finished,  for  the  reason  that  the  joint  presents  a 
far  better  appearance  when  sent  to  the  table  cold. 
Often  the  under-cut  is  sufficient  to  dine  a  small  com- 
pany— say  four  or  five;  then  the  remainder  is  served 
cold,  and,  nicely  garnished,  makes  a  handsome  luncheon 
dish.  The  under-cut  is  carved  in  rather  thick  slices 
down  to  the  bone.  The  top  or  upper-cut  is  carved  in 
thin  slices,  and  care  should  be  taken  to  keep  it  straight 
and  not  to  cut  out  the  tender  part  in  the  middle. 

A  LEG  OF  is  best  carved  by  cutting  slices  parallel  with 
MUTTON  the  bone,  which  gives  it  the  appearance  of 
a  haunch,  and  is  practically  the  same  thing. 

SADDLE  should  be  carved  in  thin  slices  on  either 
OF  side  of  the  center  bone.     Have  the  relays 

MUTTON  Q^  j^Q^  gravy  served  separately,  as  this  joint 
cools  quickly.     Plates  should  be  very  hot. 

53 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Carving    and    Game 

FORE-  Separate  the  shoulder  from  the  other  part 

QUARTER  by  cutting  round  its  outer  edge.  Place  the 
OF  LAMB  shoulder  on  another  dish  and  separate  the 
ribs  from  the  brisket.  The  shoulder  is  rarely  cut  when 
hot,  as  most  people  prefer  the  other  portions. 

HAM  «'Ob   all   de  meat   dat's  fit   ter  eat,   f'm 

turkey  down  to  ham,"  ham  is  the  most  difficult  to  carve 
nicely.  It  should  be  cut  in  slices  as  thin  as  a  wafer 
and  from  the  extreme  end  of  the  knuckle,  thus  grad- 
ually cutting  into  the  meat  and  leaving  the  knuckle 
bone  bare. 

TONGUE  Cut  the  tongue  in  half,  and  then  cut  thin 
slices  off  each  half.  A  little  fat  should  be  cut  from 
the  root  of  the  tongue  and  served  with  each  slice  of  lean. 
A  word  as  to  the  etiquette  of  carving  will  not  be 
amiss — and  this  is  it :  Do  not  talk  to  the  carver.  For  he 
is  like  the  motorman  and  should  not  have  his  attention 
distracted  from  the  very  important  business  in  hand. 

"RABBITS,  except  in  soup  stock,"  says  Sir  John  Bailey, 
"  ought  never  to  appear  on  a  gentleman's  table.  But 
if  it  must  be  served,  let  it  be  whole,  and  treat  it  as 
Apollo  did  Midas — let  its  ears  be  apparent."  Theo- 
dore Hook  was  a  famous  carver,  and  when  with  his 
intimates  he  frequented  some  country  inn  outside  Lon- 
don he  was  in  the  habit  of  acting  as  his  own  caterer 
and  selecting  from  the  poulterers  and  butchers  what- 
ever he  desired.  The  ''  Eel  Pie  House,"  Twickenham, 
the  ''  Green  Man,"  Blackheath,  and  the  "  Anglers  "  on 

54 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Carving    and    Game 


the  Thames,  with  the  famous  "  Star  and  Garter,"  Kew 
Bridge,  were  some  of  his  frequent  haunts,  and  the  free- 
dom of  the  kitchen  was  always  his. 

A  late  royal  duke  whose  talents  and  knowledge  were 
world-famous  once  exclaimed  aloud  at  the  large  house 
party  of  a  fellow-nobleman  in  Worcestershire,  "  Take 
this  away!  it's  a  very  bad  help."  This  must  have  been 
mortifying  to  the  carver,  but  he  doubtless  deserved  it, 
for  some  carvers  destroy  everything  that  falls  under 
their  careless,  clumsy  hands;  they  never  think  of 
"  diving  for  green  fat,  sounding  for  cod  sound,  divid- 
ing the  fin  and  liver  in  equal  portions,  and  they  will 
serve  woodcock  and  snipe  without  trail,  turkey  without 
stuffing,  and  plover  without  toast." 

Every  bachelor  epicure  knows  that  steel  Is  detrimen- 
tal to  the  delicate  flavor  of  fish,  and  should  insist  upon 
being  given  a  silver  fish  knife  for  serving  it. 


55 


CHAPTER    VII 

**  ^A^itli   such   cooking,  a  monkey  miglit 
eat  his  own  father." 

ESCA-  Don't  ask  me  what  that 
BECHE  means — I  won't  tell.  But 
try  It  for  your  fish  course  some  time, 
when  the  mercury  goes  up  Into  the 
eighties,  and  If  a  better  name  occurs 
to  you,  you're  at  liberty  to  use  It. 
Parboil  two  pounds  of  halibut, 
schrod,  or  any  firm  white  fish.  Cut 
In  fillets  and  place  In  a  salad  bowl. 
Mix  In  a  small  bowl  a  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar,  three  of  olive  oil,  salt, 
cayenne,  bits  of  orange  peel  cut  thin 
as  thin  can  be,  a  teaspoonful  of  onion 
juice,  a  sliced  green  pepper,  and,  if 
you  have  them  handy,  a  bay  leaf  and 
a  sprig  of  thyme  to  give  an  added 
bouquet.  Mix  well,  pour  over  the 
fillets,  garnish  with  sliced  orange, 
and  pop  into  the  Ice  box  to  await  the 
serving. 

57  ' 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Snacks    of    Sea    Food 

FISH  These  two  particular  sauces  were  invented 

SAUCES  especially  for  bachelors,  and  they're  quite 
new.  For  chile  sauce,  one  must  mash  to  a  paste  a  clove 
of  garlic,  finely  minced,  and  two  red  peppers  which 
have  been  softened  in  boiling  water  and  rubbed  through 
a  sieve.  Add  a  bit  of  the  water,  salt,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  In  the  blazer  have  sizzling  hot  a 
cupful  of  olive  oil  and  stir  the  pepper  pulp  into  this. 
Whatever  fish  you  elect  to  have,  cut  in  fillets  and  cook, 
closely  covered,  in  this  sauce.  For  the  other,  which 
we  will  call  after  Pittsburg  Phil,  take  a  cupful  each  of 
tomatoes,  onions,  and  green  peppers  from  which  the 
seeds  have  been  removed.  Scald  and  skin  the  toma- 
toes, and  skin  the  peppers  by  blistering  on  a  hot  stove. 
Chop  all  together,  adding  salt  and  enough  olive  oil  to 
moisten.  This  is  not  to  be  despised  as  an  accompani- 
ment to  cold  beef,  although  it  is  perhaps  at  its  best 
with  fish.  Try  it  on  Barracuda,  Spanish  mackerel, 
Ouananiche,  or  even  the  plebeian  cod,  and  report  the 
result  in  your  Sunday  newspaper's  Woman's  Page. 

SARDINES  would  make  a  man  bow  down  before  a 
A  L'INDI-  Hindu  god.  This  is  how  M.  Mooker- 
ENNE  jgg  q£   Calcutta  serves   them   to   his   Eng- 

lish friends.  Into  the  chafer  put  a  pat  of  but- 
ter and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  four  beaten  eggs, 
salt  and  cayenne  to  taste,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
chutney.  When  it  forms  a  smooth  paste,  mash  with 
it  some  trimmed  sardines  from  which  the  oil  has  been 

58 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Snacks    of    Sea    Food 

wiped,  dip  in  eggs  and  bread  crumbs,  and  after  saute- 
ing  in  hot  butter,  dish  up  on  thin  strips  of  toast. 
TURTLE  Should  a  man  be  so  fortunate  as  to  have 
STEAK  sent  up  from  Maryland  with  his  birds  a 
small  terrapin,  then  shall  he  call  himself  blessed  and 
ask  in  three  or  four  of  his  intimes  for  a  quiet  game. 
No  matter  what  the  losses,  this  turtle  steak  will  amply 
repay  the  loser  and  make  the  smile  of  the  winner  ex- 
pand like  Sunny  Jim's.  After  melting  two  spoonfuls 
of  butter  in  his  blazer,  the  host,  who  meanwhile  has 
the  champagne  cooling  and  the  plates  heating,  will 
stir  into  the  chafing  dish  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom 
ketchup,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  a  gill  of 
port,  a  dash  of  cayenne — why  do  they  alw^ays  say 
''dash"? — and  some  salt.  In  this  simmer  the  steak 
until  tender,  and,  as  a  crowning  touch,  stir  in  the 
juice  of  half  a  lime.  Piping  hot  should  be  the  plates, 
the  inevitable  toast,  and  the  steak.  With  the  cham- 
pagne of  the  right  coolness  and  the  steak  of  the  pre- 
scribed hotness,  even  Sam  Bernard  wouldn't  know, 
I'll  wager,  just  when  one  should  cry  "Sufficiency!" 

CANNED  Who  w^ould  ever  dream  that  the  plebeian 
SALMON  canned  salmon  could  be  transformed  into 
a  morsel  of  such  surpassing  richness  that  it  was  im- 
mortalized by  no  less  a  person  than  Thackeray  him- 
self? Yes,  canned  or  "tinned"  salmon  was  in  style 
as  long  ago  as  that,  my  friends.  And  this  is  how  the  jo- 
vial litterateur  did  it  for  himself  and  his  gifted  friends: 

59 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Snacks    of    Sea    Food 

A  gill  of  olive  oil  should  be  popped  Into  the  blazer  with 
a  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion,  a  minced  clove  of  gar- 
lic, two  cloves,  six  peppercorns,  and,  when  browned,  a 
can  of  canned  salmon  in  Its  liquid.  Now  add  salt, 
bay  leaf,  a  few  slices  of  lemon,  a  pinch  of  curry  pow- 
der, a  pint  of  tomato  pulp,  a  gill  of  Nierstelner,  and 
water  enough  to  cover  the  fish.  Simmer  twenty  min- 
utes, then  pour  into  a  deep  dish  that  has  been  lined  with 
toast,  and  call  it  ''  Bouillabaisse" 

CRABS  Melt  in  the  hot  water  pan  a  large  spoonful 
A  LA  of  butter  and  cook  In  it  for  five  minutes  a 

CREOLE  small  onion  and  a  small  sweet  Spanish  pep- 
per, minced  fine.  Stir  while  frying  and  add  half  a 
pint  of  strained  tomato  juice,  a  gill  of  chicken  broth  or 
canned  chicken  bouillon,  some  celery  salt,  and  four 
soft  shelled  crabs  nicely  cleaned  and  cut  in  half.  Sim- 
mer seven  minutes — no  longer — and  serve  on  delicately 
browned  toast. 

BOSTON  Did  they  originate  at  the  Somerset  Club 
CLAMS  or  the  Puritan?  It's  immaterial  which, 
but  this  Is  how  they're  done:  Cut  in  dice  three  or  four 
slices  of  fat  salt  pork  and  fry  crisp  in  the  chafer.  Add 
some  soft  clams,  freed  from  the  tough  part,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  saute  them  in  the  pork  fat,  serving 
on  slices  of  hot  Boston  brown  bread. 

FINNAN  as  served  at  the  Hotel  Essex  In  Boston  owes 
HADDIE  its  reputation  to  its  creator,  Rudolf  Ziitter. 
The  skin  is  removed  from  the  finnan  haddie  and  the 

60 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Snacks    of    Sea    Food 

bones  removed,  after  which  it  is  parboiled  in  salt  water. 
It  is  then  cut  in  pieces  about  an  inch  square.  Equal 
quantities  of  leeks,  celery,  and  green  peppers  finely 
chopped  are  sauted  in  butter  till  tender,  then  the  pieces 
of  fish  and  two  sliced  boiled  potatoes  are  added  and  the 
whole  covered  with  cream.  Salt  and  white  pepper  are 
used  for  seasoning,  and  it  all  boils  together.  If  a 
little  cream  sauce  is  at  hand,  it  may  be  thickened  with 
that.  If  not,  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  stirred  in 
improves  it  and  thickens  it  slightly.  Finish  with  small 
dots  of  butter  and  a  sprinkle  of  chopped  parsley. 

HERRING  Speaking  of  fish,  did  you  ever  eat  a  savory 
OMELETTE  herring  omelette?  It's  a  specialty  of  the 
Manhattan  Club  of  New  York.  Skin  and  bone  one 
fat  smoked  bloater  herring  and  cut  in  thin  pieces. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
paprika,  chives,  and  parsley.  Stew  slowly  and  add  a 
quarter-cup  thick  cream  and  four  egg  yolks;  then  take 
of¥  the  stove.  Beat  the  four  egg  whites  stiff  and  mix 
all  together,  then  shuffle  and  fold  as  an  omelette  in  a 
buttered  pan,  place  in  a  hot  oven  three  minutes,  and 
then  serve. 

A  UNION  would  not  go  badly  on  a  yachting  trip  or 
GRILL  for  a  hot  bite  after  the  theater.     It  is  sim- 

plicity itself,  and  this  is  how  it  is  done:  Clean  a  pint 
of  oysters  and  drain  off  all  the  liquor  possible.  Put 
the  oysters  in  the  chafing  dish,  and  as  the  liquo-r  flows 
from  them  remove  with  a  spoon  and  so  continue  until 

6i 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 


Snacks    of    Sea    Food 


the  oysters  are  very  plump.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve  on  whatever  biscuit  you  fancy.  And 
don't  forget  to  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter 
when  seasoning  them. 

THORN-  The  Thorndike  Hotel  in  Boston  has  an 
DIKE  oyster  recipe  invented  by  its  chef  which  is 

OYSTERS  really  a  delicacy.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  are  melted  in  the  chafer,  and  a  pint  of  oysters, 
drained  of  the  liquor,  is  added  to  cook  until  plump 
to  bursting  point.  Then  over  them  is  poured  a  quar- 
ter-cup of  thin  cream  and  two  egg  yolks  are  stirred  in 
to  thicken  it.  With  salt,  black  and  cayenne  pepper, 
and  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg,  the  trick  is  done,  and 
zephyrettes  on  hot  plates  are  brought  on  for  the 
serving. 

CLAMS  Who  pleads  guilty  to  Clams  a  la  Rial  to? 
A  LA  William    Faversham   or   Francis  Wilson? 

■^^^^^^^  Upon  my  word,  I  can't  remember,  but  don't 
let  either  say  he  hasn't  received  proper  credit,  and  here 
goes:  Chop  fine  three  dozen  little  neck  clams.  Put  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  chafing-dish,  add  the 
clams  with  their  juice  and  season  them  with  a  teaspoon 
of  minced  chives,  tw^o  teaspoons  of  chopped  parsley,  and 
a  little  pepper.  After  boiling  about  five  minutes  add 
one  tablespoon  of  walnut  catsup  and  then  stir  in  soft 
bread  crumbs  to  absorb  the  liquor,  add  another  table- 
spoon of  butter,  and  serve  very  hot.  This  is  w^ar- 
ranted  to  make  any  leading  lady  sweet  tempered,  even 

62 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Snacks    of    Sea    Food 

after  failing  to  find  her  name  in  foot-high  letters  on 
the  billboards. 

LOBSTERS  It  was  a  benedict  from  New  Orleans  who 
WITH  first  told  me  about  lobster  with  mushrooms. 

MUSH-  pj  ^  ^  hopeless  bachelor  when  a  girl 
ROOMS  1      .   •  .       1  1  •      .  1  .        r    1  . 

who  mitiated  him  mto  the  mysteries  of  this 

luscious  bonne  bouchee  promised  to  forsake  spinsterhood 
for  him — and  all  because  she  could  cook.  So  if  you  are 
anxious  to  be  won,  just  give  this  recipe  to  the  only 
girl,  and  see  what  follow^s.  A  quart  of  finely-cut  lob- 
ster meat  is  the  first  requisite.  To  follow^  have  a  cup 
of  sweet  cream,  a  sweet  green  pepper  with  seeds  re- 
moved and  the  pulp  finely  minced,  a  teaspoon  of 
minced  onion,  a  ripe  tomato  peeled,  quartered,  and 
sliced,  and  a  pint  of  large,  fresh  mushrooms  peeled  and 
cut  up  small.  Put  in  the  chafing  dish  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  add  the  pepper  and  onion  and  cook  two  or 
three  minutes  over  a  brisk  flame.  Add  tomato  and  mush- 
rooms and  toss  about  until  the  mushrooms  are  dark  and 
tender.  Then  turn  in  the  cream,  and  when  hot  add  the 
lobster.  Season  to  taste  w^ith  salt,  and  when  as  hot 
as  can  be  serve  up  on  toast.  The  same  lady  bakes 
mushrooms,  the  large  campestris,  gills  up,  in  a  baking 
dish.  The  up-turned  cups  are  filled  with  butter  and 
a  slight  sprinkling  of  salt  and  pepper  is  added  before 
the  baking  dish  is  tightly  covered.  After  baking  about 
ten  minutes  there  should  be  plenty  of  juice  to  form  the 
finest  possible  sauce  for  the  mushrooms. 

63 


ABACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Snacks    of    Sea    Food 

SHRIMPS  finishes  a  trio  of  recipes  from  the  Bayou. 
A  LA  Melt  one-half  tablespoon  of  butter  with  the 

CREOLE  same  quantity  of  lard  In  a  stewpan,  then 
add  a  tablespoon  of  brown  flour  and  stir  until  smooth. 
A  dozen  large  shrimps  boiled  and  shelled  and  a  large 
chopped  onion  are  fried  for  five  minutes,  after  which 
a  cup  of  chopped  tomatoes,  thyme,  and  parsley  to  taste 
are  added  and  the  whole  Is  simmered  half  an  hour. 
Then  come  three  chopped  green  peppers,  salt  and  cay- 
enne, and  a  half-hour  more  of  cooking.  The  Orlean 
serves  the  dainty  with  plenty  of  nicely  cooked  rice,  and 
It  Is  a  dish  fit  for  the  King  of  the  Carnival. 

AN  A  young  pathologist,  whose  name  Is  equally 

OYSTER  well  known  In  Boston  and  Berlin,  Is  quite 
SPECLAiTV^  devoted  to  his  chafing  dish  as  he  is  to 
his  laboratory,  and  lie  has  generally  something  quite 
recherche  to  offer  his  guests  when  they  drop  Into  his 
rooms  for  an  evening.  One  of  his  oyster  specialties 
Is  enjoying  fame  in  his  own  circle  at  present — and  small 
wonder.  For  it  is  a  toothsome  morsel  for  a  little  sup- 
per, if  ever  there  was  one.  How  is  it  done?  Listen: 
Butter  the  size  of  two  eggs  Is  melted  In  a  dish  and  into 
this  is  poured  a  quart  of  oysters  and  their  liquor.  By 
way  of  seasoning  he  combines  paprika,  salt,  pepper,  and 
a  dash  of  Tabasco.  This  Is  stirred  well  into  the  mix- 
ture and  the  flame  left  high  under  the  chafer.  About 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  thinly  sliced  celery  Is  then 
added,  and  when  it  Is  tender  and  the  oysters  are  bub- 
bling hotly,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  and  the  juice 

64 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Snacks    of    Sea    Food 

of  half  a  lemon  are  added.  Cook  then  about  ten  min- 
utes, and  if  it  is  to  be  especially  appetizing,  half  a  pint 
of  rich  coffee  cream  is  stirred  in.  If  this  be  heated  first 
it  will  be  better,  as  the  sherry  and  hot  oysters  are  apt 
to  curdle  the  cold  cream.  Serve  on  hot  toast  or  slices 
of  brown  bread  and  drink  with  it  just  what  you  seem 
to  crave  at  the  moment — supposing,  of  course,  that  a 
cocktail  has  preceded.  And,  by  the  w^ay,  Rhine  wine 
and  seltzer  doesn't  go  half  badly  with  this  particular 
dish,  although  of  course  if  you  prefer  beer  I've  nothing 
to  say. 

SHAD  When  the  shad  is  smiling  in  the  market 

ROE  place,  the  festive  bachelor  bethinks  himself 

of  the  succulent  roe.  For  four  people  a  pair  of  shad  roe 
— if  they  be  large — ^will  be  sufficient.  Scald  them  in  the 
hot  water  pan  with  a  pint  of  hot  w^ater,  a  gill  of  vine- 
gar, a  bit  of  mace,  and  some  lemon  peel,  not  forgetting 
three  peppercorns  for  the  final  touch  of  mystery.  Boil 
fifteen  minutes,  then  spread  with  butter  blended  with 
chopped  parsley  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

"  The    gentleman   who   dines   the    latest 
Is  in  our  street  esteemed  the  greatest; 
But  surely  greater  than  them  all, 
Is  he  who  never  dines  at  all." 

OYSTER  a  la  Sir  John  Bayley:  "Bruise  one  small 
TOAST  anchovy  fine  and  take  two  dozen  oysters 
and  cast  off  their  beards.  Chop  the  oysters  fine  w^ith  a 
silver  knife  and  put  with  the  anchovy  in  the  chafing 
dish.     Mix  both  together  with  sufficient  cream  to  give 

65 


ABACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Snacks    of    Sea    Food 

It  a  pleasing  consistency.  Heat  well,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Have  ready  some  buttered  toast,  and  serve  the 
hot  oysters  on  these  rounds.  Eat  in  solemn  silence,  and 
wash  down  with  brown  sherry." 

Sir  John,  by  the  way,  stipulates  always  that  the  din- 
ner hour  be  adhered  to  with  military  exactness.  It  is 
related  of  Cambaceres  that  Napoleon  kept  his  dinner 
waiting  half  an  hour,  and  in  despair  he  sent  for  his 
cook  and  in  true  military  phraseology  exclaimed, 
'*  Henri !  Save  the  entremets!  The  entrees  are  anni- 
hilated !  "  The  late  Dr.  Kitchener,  who  prided  him- 
self upon  his  punctuality,  had  written  over  his  side- 
board the  motto,  "  Come  at  seven,  go  at  eleven." 
Theodore  Hook,  who  always  liked  the  w^e  sma'  hours 
best,  added  the  word  "  it  "  to  the  above,  and  great  was 
the  doctor's  surprise  when  he  found  that  by  alteration 
the  notice  advised  his  guests  to  "  go  it  at  eleven."  To 
this  might  be  added  the  advice  of  Baillie  Nicol  Jarvie: 
"  Don't  accept  a  man's  hospitality  and  abuse  the  scoun- 
drel behind  his  back." 


CHAPTER    VIII 

rrrr 

*'  Clieese  is  but  a  peevist  elf^ 
It  digests  all  except  itself," 

Cheese  is  one  of  the  most  valuable 
of  foods,  and  contains,  in  one  pound, 
as  much  nutriment  as  is  contained  in 
two  pounds  of  beef.  In  its  raw  state 
it  is  rather  difficult  of  digestion  to 
some,  but  this  it  somewhat  overcome 
by  cooking.  A  small  amount  of  bi- 
carbonate of  soda  should  always  be 
added  to  cooked  cheese.  In  the  face 
of  this,  it  seems  strange  that  cheese 
should  be  eaten  to  aid  digestion,  but 
a  small  portion  of  very  rich  cheese 
eaten  after  a  hearty  dinner  aids  that 
function  wonderfully. 

The  various  popular  brands  of 
cheese  take  their  names  from  the 
places  where  they  are  made.  Many 
foreign  cheeses  are  now  so  well  imi- 
tated in  this  country  as  to  render  im- 

67 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Chat    on    Cheese 

portation  unnecessary.  For  many  years  the  Neufchatel 
cheese  has  been  made  here,  and  Is  really  quite  as  good 
as  the  original  French  cheese,  while  there  Is  made  In 
Connecticut  alone  a  very  large  quantity  of  so-called 
"  Camembert  cheese  "  which  supplies  the  leading  mar- 
kets of  the  large  cities  of  America. 

The  favorite  skim-milk  cheeses  are  Edam,  Gruyere, 
and  Parmesan.  Holland  is  the  home  of  the  Edam, 
which  is  generally  served  here  in  Its  hard  or  ripened 
condition.  But  in  Holland  the  usual  breakfast  served 
the  traveler  includes,  besides  the  delicious  cocoa  or 
coffee,  rolls,  thick  slices  of  plum  bread,  and  great  pieces 
of  fresh  Edam  cheese,  which  is  a  dark  golden  color, 
and  melts  in  one's  mouth.  The  Gruyere  is  Swiss 
and  the  Parmesan  an  Italian  cheese,  the  latter  princi- 
pally used  for  grating  over  macaroni  and  served  In  this 
form  with  soups  and  on  dishes  au  gratin. 

The  favorite  milk  cheeses  are  the  Gloucester,  Che- 
shire, Cheddar,  and  Gorgonzola — the  first  three  Eng- 
lish and  the  latter  Italian.  The  milk  and  cream 
cheeses  include  Stilton  and  Double  Gloucester  from 
England,  the  favorite  Young  America  and  New  York 
Dairy  of  *'  the  States,"  and  the  Canadian  Cream 
Cheese  from  the  Eastern  Townships  of  Canada. 
Cream  cheese  includes  Brie,  Neufchatel,  and  Camem- 
bert, which  are  the  popular  varieties  served  In  America. 
Anyone  who  has  lived  in  Paris,  however,  has  doubtless 
acquired  a  taste  for  the  Port  de  Salut,  the  Pont 
I'Eveque,  both  similar  to  Brie,  but  with  a  more  pun- 
gent flavor,  and  the  luscious  little  Coeur  Crime  cheeses 

68 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Chat    on    Cheese 

which,  with  the  Fromage  d'Isigny  and  the  Gervais 
Creme,  are  served  w^ith  Bar  le  Due  currants  or  goose- 
berries, or  with  various  comfitures  and  compotes  of 
fruit. 

The  Schweitzer  Kase,  or  Swiss  Cheese,  is  another 
favorite,  but  the  love  of  Limburger  is  generally  con- 
fined to  Teutons,  most  Americans  disliking  the  odor 
cordially.  Perhaps  the  most  popular  cheese  to-day  is 
the  Roquefort,  which  is  ripened  in  dark  caves  in  France 
and  allowed  to  mold  until  ripe.  There  is  a  fashion  of 
loading  a  Roquefort  cheese  with  brandy,  which  not  only 
preserves  it,  but  gives  it  an  incomparable  flavor.  The 
various  potted  cheeses,  like  MacLaren's  and  the  Cana- 
dian Club,  are  put  up  in  jars  with  brandy  and  retain 
their  delicacy  of  flavor  indefinitely  if  kept  in  a  cool  place. 

Pineapple  cheese  is  similar  to  Edam  and  seldom  pre- 
ferred, while  Sap  Sago  is  a  well-known  competitor. 
The  gourd-shaped  Italian  cheeses  are  so  strong  that 
few  care  for  them,  although  when  grated  over  a  dish 
of  spaghetti  they  are  not  to  be  despised.  The  cheese 
from  Switzerland  made  from  goat's  milk  and  the  Nor- 
wegian cheese  of  reindeer  milk  seldom  find  their  way 
to  this  country,  where  the  "  full  cream  country  cheese  " 
made  by  the  farmers'  wives  is  far-famed. 

Who  has  not  eaten  the  luscious  "  Cottage  Cheese,'* 
**  Dutch  Cheese,"  or  "  Schmier  Kase,"  made  from  sour 
milk  and  worked  smooth  w^ith  sweet  cream?  This  is 
sold  in  some  dairies  in  the  cities,  nicely  wrapped  in 
five-cent  packages,  and  is  sometimes  improved  by  the 
addition  of  chopped  sage,  parsley,  or  chives. 

69 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Chat    on    Cheese 

The  correct  cheese  to  order  after  a  dinner  depends 
entirely  upon  the  preceding  courses  and  the  taste  of 
the  dIners-out.  While  English  people  often  take  a 
bit  of  Gorgonzola  or  ripe  Stilton,  Americans  gener- 
ally order  Roquefort,  Camembert,  or  Brie,  and  Ameri- 
can cheese  Is  generally  relegated  to  the  noon  luncheon 
as  an  accompaniment  to  the  Inevitable  American  tri- 
angle of  pie.  A  French  dinner  usually  terminates 
with  a  bit  of  cream  cheese  and  a  confiture,  unless  a  bit 
of  Roquefort  is  taken  with  the  cognac  and  coffee. 

CHEESE  At  some  dinners,  a  canape^  In  w^hlch  cheese 
CANAPE  forms  a  part.  Is  frequently  served,  the  Ca- 
nape Lorenzo  of  cheese  and  crab  meat,  which  originated 
at  Delmonlco's,  being  world-famed.  An  ordinary 
cheese  canape  Is  made  by  browning  a  circular  piece  of 
bread  In  butter  and  spreading  with  French  mustard, 
then  with  a  layer  of  grated  cheese  seasoned  with  salt 
and  cayenne.  This  Is  set  In  a  hot  oven  and  baked 
until  the  cheese  is  melted. 

CHEESE  run  the  gamut  from  Schweitzer  Kase  in 
SAND-  rye  bread  with  German  mustard  down  to 

\VICHES  ^  dainty  affair  served  at  afternoon  teas  or 
receptions,  which  is  made  of  a  slice  of  brown  bread  and 
a  slice  of  white  bread,  between  which  Is  a  filling  made 
from  minced  green  peppers,  English  walnuts,  and  olives, 
blended  with  Neufchatel  cheese  and  softened  with 
mayonnaise.  Grated  Gruyere  cheese  mixed  with 
chopped    walnut   meats   seasoned   with    cayenne    is   a 

70 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Chat    on    Cheese 

favorite  English  sandwich,  while  fresh  whole  wheat 
bread  with  slices  of  American  cream  cheese  and  English 
mustard  is  "  not  to  be  sneezed  at." 

"  Cheese  and  bread  make  the  cheek  red." — German. 

Cheese,  like  tobacco,  is  at  last  being  dignified  with 
literature  of  its  own.  The  daily  papers  are  cartooning 
the  "  Cheshire  Cheese,"  that  delightful  old  inn  in 
the  *'  Dreams  of  a  Welsh  Rabbit,"  and,  if  you  please, 
Wine  Office  Court  off  Fleet  Street  in  London,  where 
Dr.  Johnson  ate  toasted  cheese  and  pudding  and  drank 
his  musty  ale,  has  published  an  interesting  history  of 
this,  the  most  perfect  old  tavern  existing  in  London, 
its  title  being  ''  The  Book  of  the  Cheese."  Goldsmith, 
who  lived  nearby,  used  to  sit  there  with  Dr.  Johnson, 
and  there  are  many  souvenirs  shown  of  the  two  famous 
litterateurs. 

And  the  cheese?  Was  there  ever  anything  to  com- 
pare with  the  toasted  cheese  one  has  there?  It's  an 
idealized  sort  of  rabbit,  served  up  in  little  square  tins 
on  slices  of  toast  and  brought  in  sizzling  and  set  before 
one  on  the  rough  board  bench  with  a  mug  of  musty 
or  a  pitcher  of  ale  and  porter  mixed  and  frothing  over 
deliciously.  The  secret  of  the  toasted  cheese  is,  like 
that  of  the  pudding,  jealously  guarded,  and  it  is  said 
that  but  one  man  in  London  ever  know^s  at  one  time 
just  how  the  trick  is  done.  But  it's  a  morsel  that  is 
well  worth  crossing  the  Atlantic  for,  provided  one  isn't 
satisfied  with  his  own  chafing  dish  cheese  stunts. 

71 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Chat    on    Cheese 

Why  is  not  cheese  used  more,  I  wonder?  It  is 
nutritious,  and,  eaten  properly,  aids  in  digesting  a 
dinner.  If  one  always  drinks  plenty  of  good  old  ale 
or  beer  with  his  rabbit  and  includes  in  its  ingredients 
a  pinch  of  soda  there's  no  reason,  unless  there's  a 
chronic  indigestion  to  contend  with,  why  a  rabbit  need 
not  digest  as  easily  as  a  new-laid  egg. 

In  foreign  countries  cheese  is  as  staple  an  article  of 
diet  as  bread.  One  reads  of  the  husky  English  laborer 
with  his  pail  of  beer  and  mid-day  tiffin  of  bread  and 
cheese.  The  German  considers  no  luncheon  complete 
without  his  Schweitzer  Kase  or  Schmier  Kase,  while 
the  Swiss  goat-milk  cheese,  the  Norw-eglan  reindeer- 
milk  cheese,  the  Italian  cheese,  and  the  hundred  and 
one  variety  of  French  cheeses  are  equally  famous  staple 
articles  of  diet. 

AN  APPE-  Take  equal  parts  of  MacLaren's  Roque- 
TIZER  fort  cheese  and  sweet  dairy  butter  and  melt 

in  the  hot  water  pan,  using  a  very  low  flame.  When 
of  cream-like  consistency  add  cayenne  and  Worcester- 
shire sauce  to  taste,  stirring  until  it  foams.  Crisp 
crackers  and  the  beer  that  made  Milwaukee  famous 
complete  a  trio  of  famous  palate-ticklers. 
FROMAGE  -^  Gruyere  cheese  appetizer  is  a  favorite 
A  LA  with  the  students  of  Geneva  and  Lausanne. 

FLORIAN  Florian  Robert  brought  the  recipe  into  his 
ROBERT  coterie  at  the  Sorbonne,  and  in  the  little 
apartment  on  the  Boul'  Miche'  a  few  congenial  souls 
occasionally  gather  of  an  evening  and  wash  down  with 

72 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Chat    071    Cheese 

"Bock''  this  dainty:  Melt  in  a  copper  saucepan  over 
the  charcoal  brazier — a  chafing-dish  will  be  used 
over  here — a  quarter-pound  of  grated  Gruyere  cheese 
w^Ith  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  some  chopped  onion  and 
parsley,  a  cup  of  chicken  broth — or  half  a  can  of 
chicken  soup  strained — salt,  pepper,  and  a  suspicion  of 
nutmeg.  When  well  blended,  add  four  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  after  stirring  until  It  looks  just  good  enough 
to  eat,  serve  on  triangles  of  toasted  bread. 
FONDUE  A  delicate  fondue  au  fromage  may  be 
AU  quickly  made — of  the  sort  that  one  serves 

FROMAGE  ^.j^i^  ginger  ale  or  ApoUInarls  lemonade. 
Melt  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  two  chestnuts 
(I'm  tired  of  saying  "  a  walnut  ")  In  the  blazer,  a  half- 
pound  of  broken  or  grated  cheese,  and  stir  until  melted. 
Add  a  cupful  of  thin  cream,  a  bit  of  salt,  and  a  sprink- 
ling of  pepper.  Serve  on  any  biscuit  or  toast  you  fancy 
— but  try  toast  made  from  Boston  brown  bread  If  you 
want  a  distinct  novelty  to  connect  two  continents. 
QUEEN  Would  not  a  recipe  from  Victoria  the 
VIC-  Good     be    acceptable    to    the    loyal    John 

TORIA'S  Bull?  Then  let  It  be  toasted  cheese  from 
TOASTED  ^j^g  Royal  Lodge  at  Windsor,  which  is 
done  In  this  fashion:  Grate  half  a  pound 
of  cheese  very  fine,  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  ale 
and  a  small  glass  of  champagne.  Mix  well  in  a  silver 
dish  over  the  hot  water  pan  for  ten  minutes  and  serve 
on  toast.  It's  almost  as  good — not  quite — as  that 
served  at  "  Ye  Cheshire  Cheese." 

73 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Chat    on    Cheese 

ONION  I  have  no  time  to  waste  in  the  idle  discus- 
^^^^^'^  sion  of  whether  it's  Rarebit  or  Rabbit.  If 
you  must  know,  consult  the  Encyclopaedia  Brittanica 
while  two  large  Spanish  onions  are  boiling  in  the  hot 
w^ater  pan.  When  they  are  soft,  your  mind  will  be 
at  rest,  and  you  will  chop  the  onions  and  put  them  in 
the  blazer  together  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  milk, 
salt,  cayenne,  as  much  Tabasco  as  you  like,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  half-cupful  of  grated  cheese. 
It  should  be  very  "  short,"  and,  with  a  steinful  of 
Wurtzburger,  it  will  be  so  delectable  that  when  it's 
gone  you'll  doubtless  bless  me  for  telling  you  how  to 
do  it — then  make  another. 

FRIED  These   odorous  but  w^holesome  vegetables 

ONIONS  take  on  a  new  savor  w^hen  friend  in  this  fash- 
WITH  ion :   Fry  a  quarter-pound  or  salt  pork  until 

quite  brown,  then  remove  from  the  pan. 
Slice  a  quart  of  onions  into  the  fat,  adding  a  little  salt 
and  pepper  and  half  a  cupful  of  water.  Cover  the  pan 
and  cook  the  onions  until  a  light  brown,  then  cut  into 
dice  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  good  cheese  and  add 
to  the  onions  about  five  minutes  before  serving.  Allow 
them  to  simmer  slowly,  and  do  not  break  up  the  cheese 
in  fr>^ing.  This  comes  from  Pierre  Lavigne,  a  promi- 
nent young  artist  in  Paris,  who  says  he  learned  it  of 
peasants  in  the  valley  of  the  Loire. 
OYSTER  A  deviation  from  the  time-worn  rabbit  is 
RABBIT  an  Oyster  Rabbit  a  la  Frank  Harris,  which 
cannot  fail  to  tickle  some  palates.     Clean  and  remove 

74 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Chat    on    Cheese 

the  hard  muscles  from  half  a  pint  of  oysters  and  let 
them  heat  until  their  edges  curl  in  a  chafer  with  some 
of  their  own  liquor,  finally  removing  to  a  hot  bowl. 
Then  put  in  the  blazer  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one- 
half  pound  cheese  broken  in  small  bits,  one  saltspoon 
each  of  salt  and  mustard,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne, 
with  a  suspicion  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  if  desired. 
While  the  cheese  is  melting,  beat  two  eggs  slightly, 
adding  them  to  the  oyster  liquor  and  pouring  gradually 
in  the  melted  cheese.  Add  the  oysters,  cook  a  moment, 
and  serve  up  on  hot  toast  or  crackers. 

A  "BED-  Herman  Oelrichs  occasionally  created  a 
SPREAD  ''  bonne  bouchee'"  and  this,  which  he  called 
FORTWO"]^jg  "bedspread  for  two,"  is  another  oyster 
concoction  that  is  worthy  of  the  name.  Stir  six  eggs 
together  in  a  soup  plate,  and  in  another  plate  cut  up 
a  dozen  medium  Blue  Points  moderately  fine.  Rub 
the  bottom  of  the  blazer  with  anchovy  paste,  put  in  a 
good-sized  piece  of  butter,  and  proceed  to  do  the  eggs 
into  a  creamy  scramble.  Just  as  they  are  turning, 
throw  in  the  oysters  and  stir  until  well  blended  and 
cooked  through,  then  serve  on  toast  lightly  spread  with 
some  of  the  anchovy  paste. 

SARDINE  Will  you  brave  insomnia  and  indigestion? 
RABBIT  Then  listen:  Have  some  sardines  broiled 
and  placed  on  squares  of  buttered  toast,  then  make  in 
the  chafer  a  thin  rabbit,  using  milk  In  lieu  of  ale,  and 
a    dash    of    Tabasco.     Stir    in    one    direction,    adding 

75 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 


A    Chat    on    Cheese 


cream,  and  when  the  consistency  of  "  cold  molasses  " 
pour  over  the  broiled  sardines. 

CHILELY  A  gay  bachelor  from  'Frisco  who  is  too 
modest  to  give  his  name  taught  me  this  trick  with 
cheese — New  York  Dairy.  Break  in  pieces  a  quarter- 
pound  of  it  and  rub  to  a  paste  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  tw^o  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  thick  cream,  a  dash  of  Tabasco,  and  some  cay- 
enne. Stir  until  nearly  melted  in  the  hot  w^ater  pan, 
and  then  stir  in  quickly  this  sauce  which  has  been  cook- 
ing in  another  chafer:  Scald  and  skin  three  tomatoes 
of  medium  size;  add  one  small  white  onion  and  one 
bell  pepper  with  seeds  removed  and  chopped  fine,  and 
cook  ten  minutes  over  a  hot  fire.  Pour  off  super- 
fluous tomato  juice  before  adding  to  the  cheese.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  if  "  Bock  is  in  season,"  then  you'll 
need  no  passport  to  the  Land  of  Delight. 


76 


^^^ 


CHAPTER     IX 

urr 

"  One  Devil  Drives  out  Anotker " 

Deviling  is  a  particular  form  of 
cookery  that  was  doubtless  devised 
by  some  inventive  bachelor;  at  all 
events,  "  devils  "  are  beloved  by  epi- 
cures the  world  over.  What  New 
Yorker  does  not  remember  with  joy 
the  famous  "  devils  "  procurable  only 
in  their  glory  at  "Jack's"?  There  is 
a  subtlety  in  Jack's  concoctions  that 
makes  the  chefs  at  Sherry's,  Delmon- 
ico's.  Rector's,  and  Martin's  throw 
up  their  hands  in  the  face  of  his  in- 
comparable mixture.  The  "  devils  " 
of  more  than  one  London  club, 
but  particularly  the  Junior  Carlton 
and  the  Army  and  Navy,  are  famed 
the  world  over,  while  even  the 
Somerset  Club  in  Boston  by  no 
means  lags  behind  in  the  preparation 
of  deviled  kidneys. 

77 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Devils    and    Grills 

The  distinction  between  deviling  and  grilling? 
Well,  grills  need  not  be  deviled,  but  devils  MUST  be 
grilled.  The  proper  dressing  of  a  good  devil  is  one 
of  its  chief  requisites.  It  must  be  pungently  spiced, 
hot  to  the  taste,  cooked  in  a  sizzling  fry-pan,  and  served 
smoking  hot.  Kidneys  and  chops  are  especially  well 
adapted  to  deviling,  but  anything  in  the  tinned  meat 
line,  and  sausages  also,  are  improved  by  the  dressing, 
while  rare  slices  of  roast  beef  and  mutton  and  all  sorts 
of  game  may  be  made  tempting  as  well. 

JACK'S  is  jealously  guarded,  but  Walter  Mac- 
RECIPE  Queen  of  the  famous  "  Broiler  Club  "  gives 
one  that  is  so  like  It  as  to  be  its  twin  brother.  (Are 
sauces  masculine?  This  one  should  be,  at  any  rate.) 
Stir  in  the  chafing  dish  enough  olive  oil  to  flood  the 
bottom,  a  spoonful  of  mustard,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
paprika,  a  little  salt  and  some  black  pepper.  When 
thoroughly  blended,  pop  in  the  kidneys  or  whatever  is 
to  be  deviled,  and  if  an  added  zest  is  required,  throw  in 
a  few  olives  and  heat  thoroughly.  A  bit  of  toast  or  a 
crusty  end  off  a  French  loaf  and  a  glass  of  musty  ale 
add  just  the  proper  touch  to  this  Satanic  morsel. 

INDIAN       Admiral  Ross  of  the  English  navy  handed 
DEVIL  down    to    posterity    a    recipe    for    "  Indian 

MIXTURE   £)g^ji  Mixture  "  that  is  not  to  be  ignored. 
This  Is  it: 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  gravy,  one  of  chutney 
paste,  one  of  ketchup,  one  of  vinegar,  two  teaspoon- 

78 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Devils    and    Grills 

fuls  of  made  mustard,  two  of  salt  and  two  of  butter. 
Mix  these  all  thoroughly  In  a  soup  plate,  then  heat  in 
the  chafer. 

DEVILED  is  a  favorite  dish  in  the  menage  of  a  New 
DUCK  York   bachelor,   who   always  makes  it  the 

piece  de  resistance  of  his  meal.  The  skin  having  been 
removed  from  a  cold  roast  duck  and  the  bird  cut  in 
pieces  of  a  convenient  size,  he  proceeds  as  follows: 
The  livers  are  mashed  with  a  spoonful  of  dry  mustard, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne,  to  a  smooth  paste  in  the  blazer, 
in  which  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  have  been  melt- 
ing. The  same  amount  of  water  is  added,  and  finally, 
a  gill  of  good  old  Madeira.  When  this  Is  smoking  hot, 
the  pieces  of  duck  are  added  and  left  to  simmer  until 
smoking  hot,  too. 

"A  says  an  English  bachelor  whose  suppers  at 

DEVILED  his  Jermyn  Street  chambers  are  famous 
KIDNEY,  feasts,  *'  is  the  most  delicious  morsel  ever 
enjoyed  by  an  epicure."  Sheep's  kidneys  of  course  are 
used,  and  split  in  half  with  the  skin  and  white  mem- 
brane removed.  Put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, and  when  hot  throw  in  the  kidneys,  dust  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  cook  quickly.  Throw  over  them  a 
tablespoonful  of  onion  juice,  tablespoonful  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry. 
Have  your  plates  hot  and  the  ale  tankards  brimming. 
With  a  bit  of  bread  and  some  ripe  old  Stilton  to  fol- 
low, these  make  a  supper  fit  for  a  saint  or  sinner. 

79 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Devils    and    Grills 

DEVILED  requires  a  different  treatment.  For  this,  a 
LOBSTER  dash  of  curry  powder  is  stirred  into  a  paste 
with  some  dry  mustard,  salt,  black  pepper  and  olive 
oil.  Spread  over  the  pieces  of  lobster,  then  lay  them  in 
a  dish  and  in  an  ounce  of  melted  butter;  cook  ten 
minutes  if  fresh — and  no  epicure  ever  wants  canned 
lobster. 

A  FASHION  left-over  slices  of  cold  meat  that  prevails 
OF  in    a    bachelor    household   not    far    from 

DEVILING  Washington  Square  in  New  York,  is  this: 
The  slices  are  carefully  trimmed,  then,  if  cut  thick,  are 
scored  with  a  knife.  French  mustard,  pepper,  salt,  and 
cayenne  are  mixed  with  soft  butter  to  make  a  paste, 
then  rubbed  in  the  scored  slices  and  grilled. 

GRILLED  are  also  popular  at  this  studio,  and  are  done 
SARDINES  by  first  draining  the  sardines  from  oil  and 
removing  the  skins  by  rubbing  them  off.  A  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  is  heated  in  the  chafing  dish,  and  the 
sardines  are  laid  in  this  and  heated  thoroughly  before 
serving  on  toast  or  crackers.  Toasted  Uneeda  biscuit 
make  a  delightful  accompaniment  to  these.  If  deviled 
sardines  are  wanted,  mash  the  sardines  with  a  silver 
fork  and  after  sauteing  in  melted  butter  or  a  little  of 
the  oil,  a  generous  quantity  of  tomato  ketchup  is  added, 
with  a  dash  of  tabasco,  if  wanted  very  hot,  and  the  other 
usual  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  etc.  A  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  furnish  the  final  touch,  as  the  mixture  is 
served  piping  hot  on  toasted  crackers. 

80 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Devils    and    Grills 

DEVILED  makes  a  fine  morsel  for  a  snack  or  even 
LIVER  for  a  sandwich  filling.     Take  three  pounds 

of  uncooked  liver  and  chop  together  with  a  quarter 
pound  of  salt  pork.  Mix  w^ll  with  it  half  a  pint  of 
bread  crumbs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne,  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  mace  and  cloves.  Put  in  a  covered 
dish  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  cold  w^ater.  Cover  the 
kettle  and  place  on  the  fire  to  boil  two  hours.  When 
done,  let  the  steam  escape  by  removing  the  cover  before 
setting. 

DEVILED  speaking  warmly,  are  not  half  bad  and  de- 
EGGS  serve   to   be   better  known.      Put   a  large 

spoonful  of  butter  in  the  blazer  and  stir  into  it  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  tw^o  tablespoonfuls  of  to- 
mato sauce,  one  of  mushroom  and  one  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce.  When  hot,  put  in  four  hard  boiled  eggs, 
nicely  quartered,  salted  and  peppered.  When  heating, 
make  some  toast,  spread  with  butter  and  anchovy  paste, 
and  serve  the  eggs  on  this  and  see  if  it  isn't  "  just  the 
mustard." 

One  more  bachelor,  who  remains  modestly  incognito, 
gives  herewith,  his  famous  rule  for  deviled  bones,  to 
wit : 

DEVILED  Melt  in  a  chafer  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
BONES  ter,  add  i  tablespoon  each  of  Chili  sauce, 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Walnut  catsup,  i  tablespoonful 
made  mustard  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Take  the  drum- 
sticks, second  joints,  and  wrings  of  a  cooked  chicken  and 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Devils    and    Grills 

cut  small  gashes  in  each  piece.  Sp-rinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  cook  in  the  ceasoned  but- 
ter until  well  browned.  Then  add  half  a  cup  of  hot 
stock  in  which  the  chicken  was  cooked,  simmer  five 
minutes  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  the  last 
thing  before  serving. 

DEVILED  as  cooked  in  a  famous  San  Francisco  restau- 
CRABS  rant,  the  Techau  Tavern,  will  appeal  to 
most  people  strongly.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  was 
braided  into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  white  stock  was  added  to  make 
a  sauce,  into  which  was  stirred  smoothly  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry,  salt  and  pepper, 
one-fourth  cup  finely  chopped  mushrooms,  and  a  cup 
of  chopped  crab  meat.  After  cooking  this  three 
minutes,  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley  was 
sifted  over.  The  mixture  was  then  cooled  and  the  crab 
shells,  which  had  been  washed  and  trimmed,  were 
brushed  with  melted  butter,  filled  with  the  crab  meat 
and  sprinkled  with  stale  bread  crumbs  that  had  been 
mixed  with  a  little  melted  butter.  Then  the  shells 
were  popped  into  a  hot  oven  and  baked  a  golden  brown, 
after  having  scored  the  tops  in  three  creases  w^ith  a 
case  knife. 

"  Fresh  pork  and  new  wine  kill  a  man  before  his  time." 

BROILED  If  ever  you've  lived  in  the  land  of  "  hog 
PORK  and  hominy,"  you  won't  despise  a  dish  of 

CUTLETS     '*  f  j.ggj^    pq'j^  "    ^Q    gg^    before    your    guests. 

Ever  try  this?    Cut  two  pounds  of  fresh  pork  loin  Into 

82 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Devils    and    Grills 

flat  pieces  of  a  portion  each.  In  a  deep  dish,  make  a 
marinade  of  a  tablespoonful  or  more  of  vinegar,  a  little 
chopped  tarragon,  if  you're  an  epicure,  a  clove  of 
chopped  garlic  and  a  chopped  green  pepper  (seeds  re- 
moved). Lay  the  pork  in  this  for  two  hours,  then  broil 
and  serve  on  hills  of  mashed  potato.  This  was  used  in 
the  South  "  befo'  de  w^ah,"  and  I  reckon  you-all  '11 
relish  it  some  cold  night  when  the  wind  Is  whistling 
round  the  corners. 

CREOLE  Even  a  bachelor  may  tire  of  a  porterhouse 
GRILLADES  occasionally  and  sigh  for  a  change.  Then 
is  the  time  for  him  to  test  the  Grillades,  which  they  do 
this  way  in  New  Oleans:  Cut  a  thick  steak — tender- 
loin will  do — into  pieces  about  four  inches  square. 
Pour  a  little  olive  oil  over  each  piece  and  let  stand  a 
few  minutes,  then  broil  over  hot  coals  if  you  have  them, 
otherwise  under  a  fine  hot  gas  flame  just  enough  to 
sear  the  outside.  Then  place  in  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle 
with  one  chopped  onion,  one  green  pepper,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  tomato  sauce,  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a 
quarter  cupful  of  oil.  Cover  closely  and  when  brow^n, 
turn.  Add  a  bit  of  hot  water  to  the  gravy,  boil  up  and 
serve. 

HOT  Suppose  youVe  just  seen  a  Bernard  Shaw 

BIRDS  play;  isn't  that  an  excuse  for  something  to 

follow,  a  bit  out  of  the  ordinary?  Well,  while  the 
champagne  is  nicely  cooling  In  Its  nest  of  shaved  Ice, 
you  will  let  one  of  your  guests  read  Shaw's  "  On 
Going  to  Church  "  to  the  others  while  you  are  cutting 

83 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 


Devils    and    Grills 


up  three  or  four  pigeons  in  four  pieces  each  and  mari- 
nating them  in  a  half  cup  of  olive  oil  for  ten  minutes. 
Drain  the  oil  into  the  blazer  and  while  "  Jeems  "  is 
laying  the  plates — I  take  it  you're  not  an  impecunious 
bachelor — you  are  chopping  an  onion,  a  clove  of  garlic, 
a  green  pepper  and  some  parsley.  Fry  in  the  oil  until 
transparent,  then  add  the  pieces  of  pigeon  and  sear 
them  all  over.  This  is  preliminary.  Next  get  out  the 
nice  brown  French  casserole  and  put  all  of  this  in  it 
together  with  a  can  of  tomatoes,  salt,  paprika  and 
cayenne  to  taste,  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  minced  salt 
pork,  half  a  cupful  of  sliced  olives,  and  a  can  of  bouil- 
lon or  a  pint  of  good  stock.  Cover  tightly  and  sim- 
mer an  hour;  it  takes  time,  but  it's  worth  the  waiting. 
Five  minutes  before  serving,  moisten  a  tablespoon  of 
browned  flour  with  a  little  of  the  gravy,  stir  in  and 
when  it  thickens  it's  ready.  Pass  with  this,  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  or,  if  you're  sure  they  all  care  for 
it,  sprinkle  over  the  casserole  while  it's  on  the  fire.  It's 
as  red  as  Shaw's  w^hiskers  and  as  fine  as  "  Candida," 
while  it  will  disappear  almost  as  quickly  as  did  "  Mrs. 
Warren's  Profession." 


CHAPTER 


X 


"  New  disbes  beget  new  appetites." 

San  Francisco  was  a  city  of  restau- 
rants— the  most  wonderful  restau- 
rants in  all  America.  With  the 
passing  of  the  old  city  one  shudders 
to  think  of  the  fate  of  Zinkand's,  the 
Techau  Tavern  with  its  sweet-voiced 
Haw^aiian  singers  and  sadly  beautiful 
native  music,  Tait's  mammoth  un- 
derground palace,  the  Palace  of  Art 
with  its  wonderful  collection  of 
paintings,  including  a  Rosa  Bonheur, 
the  new  and  the  old  "  Poodle  Dog  " 
— the  latter  one  of  the  show  places  of 
the  Coast.  Then  there  was  the 
newly  opened  Oyster  Grotto,  where 
nothing  but  shellfish,  including  the 
delectable  California  crabs,  was 
served.  There  was  the  Italian  cafe 
of  one  Coppa  on  Montgomery  Street 
that  had  been  decorated  by  the  fa- 

85 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Mexican    and   Creole    Cooking 

mous  San  Franciscan  artists  and  where  writers,  mu- 
sicians, and  painters  met  to  drink  Chianti  and  eat 
spaghetti,  ravioli,  and  frittura,  and  through  their  smoke 
wreaths  admire  the  w^onderfully  suggestive  frescoes  re- 
calling Gelett  Burgess  and  his  "  goops,"  Jack  London, 
and  other  celebrities  whose  names  were  lettered  upon 
the  border  together  with  those  of  "  Maisie,"  "  Isabel," 
"  Murger,"  "  Verlaine,"  and  other  good  Bohemians 
who  know  how  to  live — and  to  die.  The  restaurants 
of  Chinatown  passed  by,  there  was  that  of  one  Matias 
in  the  Telegraph  Hill  region  which  was  unique  of  all 
eating  places  in  the  West.  For  it  was  a  Mexican  res- 
taurant over  which  Matias,  an  Austrian,  presided 
proudly,  and  served  his  few^  patrons  in  the  two  clean, 
shabby  little  rooms  that  smelled  of  garlic  and  were 
decorated  with  colored  prints  all  the  way  from  Spain, 
showing  glorious  bull  fights  in  every  stage  from  a  hand- 
some, lone  matador,  calmly  awaiting  the  onslaught  of 
Taurus,  to  the  gory  finish  with  rivers  of  blood;  and 
from  without,  coming  through  the  open  windows,  all 
the  clattering  tongues  of  Italian  and  Greek,  Mexican 
and  Portuguese,  denizens  of  the  "  Barbary  Coast." 

In  the  little  alcove  kitchen  in  the  rear  of  the  first 
room  stood  Matias's  w^ife,  a  handsome,  liquid-eyed 
Mexican  woman  of  thirty,  busily  cooking  the  "  Albun- 
digos,"  "  Tamales,"  stirring  the  "  Chili  con  carne," 
and  rolling  the  "  Enchiladas  "  for  the  Senor  who  sat 
in  the  next  room  drinking  of  the  heavy,  puckery  Mexi- 
can wine. 

86 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Mexican    and    Creole    Cooking 

With  the  second  course  of  delicious  fish,  with  a  sauce 
even  hotter  than  the  soup,  Matias  brought  the  register, 
or  guest  book,  which  reminds  one  of  a  similar  one  at 
the  "  Cheshire  Cheese  "  In  London.  Filled  with  au- 
tographs of  famous  people  and  drawings  by  artists  and 
verse  by  poets  and  pen  pictures  by  descriptive  writers, 
It  was  a  worthy  tome,  and  interested  one  for  more  than 
an  hour's  time. 

The  delicious  enchiladas  which  form  si  part  of  every 
Mexican  dinner  are  simply  tortillas  or  corn  cakes 
rolled  over  like  a  German  pancake  and  filled  with 
grated  cheese  and  sliced  onion  with  chili  sauce  poured 
over  It,  and  a  soup(;on  of  garlic  grated  on  top.  It  is 
Impossible  to  make  tortillas  as  they  are  made  In  Mexico, 
as  the  corn  Is  not  made  Into  meal  there,  but  Is  rubbed 
between  stones  Into  a  soft,  pulpy  mass — but  I  have 
eaten  some  very  good  ones  made  by  a  San  Francisco 
artist  in  his  studio  on  Russian  Hill,  made  like  an 
ordinary  corn  griddle  cake  with  a  little  wheat  flour 
added  to  prevent  brittleness.  He  fried  his  onions  In  a 
little  olive  oil,  then  put  a  spoonful  on  each  enchilada' 
and  grated  some  cheese  over,  rolled  It  deftly,  and 
poured  over  it  the  chili  sauce,  which  as  everyone  knows 
is  made  from  tomatoes  and  hot  Mexican  peppers. 

The  same  artist  gave  to  me  some  of  his  choicest 
Mexican  recipes  which  had  been  given  him  in  a  burst 
of  generosity  by  Madame  Matias.  Chili  chicken  is 
not  the  least  delectable  of  these,  and  is  made  so- 
f  ashion : 

87 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Mexican    and    Creole    Cooking 

CHILI  Boil  a  chicken  until  tender,  let  cool,  and 

CHICKEN  chop  fine.  Wash  and  dry  a  cup  of  rice,  put 
It  into  a  pot  which  contains  equal  portions  of  melted  lard 
and  butter  and  fry  a  few  moments,  then  add  chopped 
tomatoes,  onions,  salt,  and  some  chili  powder,  which  can 
be  bought  at  any  purvej^or's.  When  this  Is  well 
blended  and  the  rice  has  swelled,  add  the  chicken  and 
some  of  the  broth  In  which  it  has  been  boiled. 
HOT  I  wonder  if  any  of  you  have  ever  eaten  a 

TAMALE  fresh  hot  tamale,  and  if  you  have  ever 
essayed  the  canned  substitutes  offered  occasionally  on 
buffet  cars  of  the  vintage  of  Armour  or  the  Libby  can- 
ning factories?  There's  just  the  difference  between 
a  new-laid  egg  and  a  very  bad  one — ^with  all  due 
respect  to  the  canners,  who  certainly  do  their  best 
to  turn  out  the  real  Mexican  article.  But  a  fresh 
tamale  with  the  corn  husks  smoking  hot  can  only  be 
prepared  properly  by  a  Mexican  woman — so  I  will 
not  attempt  to  tell  you  how  they  are  done.  They  can 
be  had  in  their  perfection  In  the  City  of  Mexico,  and 
from  there  on  up  the  coast  to  Portland,  Oregon,  where 
they  are  very  good  Indeed. 

By  w^ay  of  a  change,  some  day  when  you  are  having 
chicken  or  chili  con  carne,  try  with  It  some  genuine 
SOPA  Boil   some   rice   rather  soft,   with   a   trifle 

DE  ARROZeach  of  chili  sauce  and  onion  juice  or 
chopped  onion,  and  eat  It  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
It  will  be  found  a  vast  Improvement  over  the  plain 
boiled  "  Carolina  head." 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Mexican    and   Creole    Cooking 

CHILI  RE-  is  the  most  delicious  of  Mexican  dainties — 
LLENOS  stuffed  pepper,  to  be  sure,  but  savoring 
little  of  the  ordinary  hotel  product.  To  some  finely- 
chopped  boiled  beef,  one-half  that  amount,  each,  of 
chopped  raisins  and  chopped  almonds,  pecans  or  wal- 
nuts, is  added.  The  pepper  pods  are  prepared  by  being 
scraped  thin — thinner  than  usual — and  after  being 
stuffed  with  this  mixture,  the  rellenos  are  fried  in  egg 
batter  in  smoking  lard  and  served  with  or  without 
chili  sauce,  as  the  fancy  dictates.  To  almost  any  Mex- 
ican cookery  a  substantial  shaking  of  chili  powder  is 
added  before  the  chilis  are  done. 

There  may  be  many  lovers  of  chili  peppers  who  are 
unable  to  gratify  their  taste  for  the  toothsome  things. 
To  such  people,  like  the  ranchman  in  his  desert  of 
cacti  and  sage  brush,  the  canned  sweet  peppers  or 
pimientos  put  up  in  oil  are  a  luxury,  and  an  inexpensive 
one  at  that,  since  the  cans  are  but  15  cents  in  most 
places,  and  contain  enough  of  the  peppers  for  three  or 
four  meals.  A  favorite  dish  prepared  with  them  in  a 
Colorado  ranch  is  called 

POTATOES  A  half  cup  of  lard  is  put  in  the  frying  pan 
O'BRIEN  with  some  sliced  onion  and  a  strip  of 
bacon  to  give  the  proper  flavor.  Then  some  raw  pota- 
toes are  sliced  and  cut  across  very  thin,  and  three  or 
four  pieces  of  the  canned  peppers  are  also  cut  in  tiny 
pieces.  The  whole  is  mixed,  and  when  the  lard  is 
smoking  hot  put  in  the  pan  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
dash  of  chili  powder,  or  "  sweet  chili  pepper,"  as  it 

89 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Mexican    and   Creole    Cooking 

is  labeled.  Covered  closely  with  a  little  hot  water 
poured  in  after  they  have  begun  to  get  tender,  they 
should  cook  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  chopped  with  a 
knife  and  stirred.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  have 
enough  lard  to  make  them  soggy.  Are  they  good? 
Ask  Buffalo  Bill. 

Not  the  w^orst  salad  in  the  world  is  made  from 
romaine  or  lettuce  with  these  same  peppers  sliced  in 
strips  and  a  French  dressing  poured  over  them.  Try 
it  and  see. 

These  "  pimiento  morrones "  are  delectable  addi- 
tions to  almost  any  salad,  and  give  a  dash  to  a  clear 
soup,  while  as  sandwiches  with  cream  cheese  and 
graham  or  wheat  bread,  they  make  a  delightful  bonne 
bouchee.  While  in  camp,  add  a  few  to  the  "  Mulli- 
gan," or  transform  a  plebeian  beef  stew  into  a  stew 
a  la  Mexicaine  by  their  use. 

PIMIENTO  Boil  six  large  sweet  red  peppers  until  ten- 
BISQUE  der.  Remove  skin  and  seeds  and  rub 
through  a  colander  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  water  in 
which  they  were  boiled.  While  they  are  boiling,  put  a 
half-cup  of  rice  in  a  double  boiler  w^ith  one  and  a  half 
quarts  of  white  stock  or  an  equal  quantity  of  milk. 
When  perfectly  soft,  rub  through  a  fine  sieve  and  add 
the  pepper  pulp,  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  enough  Tabasco  sauce  to  make 
very  hot.  Bring  to  a  boil,  then  remove  from  the  fire 
and  stir  in  slowly  one-half  cupful  of  thick  cream  into 
which  has  been  blended  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.     The 

90 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Mexican    and   Creole    Cooking 

Pimientos  Morrones  or  canned  peppers  may  be  used  If 
fresh  ones  are  out  of  season.  Have  ready  some  crou- 
tons— you  can  make  them  by  sauteing  tiny  cubes  of 
bread  in  olive  oil  until  golden  brown — and  smack  your 
lips  over  the  hottest  and  most  delicious  of  Mexican 
soups. 

CODFISH  Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Sierra  Madre 
MEXICAN  oil  in  the  blazer  and  fry  in  it  for  a  mo- 
STYLE  ment  a  clove  of  chopped  garlic,  then  add 

two  cupfuls  of  raw  potatoes  which  have  been  peeled 
and  cut  in  thin  slices,  until  brown.  Then  add  one 
pound  of  picked  salt  codfish — it  should  have  been  soaked 
for  several  hours  previous — one  can  of  strained  toma- 
toes, a  soupgon  of  marjoram,  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  and 
the  pulp  of  four  luscious  red  peppers — failing  the 
fresh,  use  Pimiento  Morrones — ^W'hich  have  been 
soaked  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  Cook  slowly  for 
two  hours. 

KIDNEYS  Suppose  that,  after  this  rich  soup  and  ap- 
ALAMEX-  petizing  fish,  one  elects  to  omit  the  roast 
ICAINE  ^^^  substitute  an  entree.  Can  he  find  a 
more  tempting  morsel  than  the  kidney  in  Mexican 
style?  At  all  events,  let  him  give  the  dish  the  benefit 
of  the  doubt  until  it's  tried.  Now  for  it:  Slice  three 
veal  kidneys,  removing  the  skin  and  hard  membrane. 
Have  in  the  blazer  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  and  in 
this  saute  four  sliced  onions — medium-sized  ones — - 
until  brown.  Then  add  half  a  dozen  tomatoes  sliced 
thickly,  six  green  peppers  from  which  the  seeds  have 

91 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Mexican    and    Creole    Cooking 

been  removed,  finely  chopped,  and  four  slices  of  fat 
bacon.  Cook  five  minutes,  then  add  four  raw  pota- 
toes that  have  been  peeled  and  cut  in  thick  slices,  salt, 
and  of  course  as  much  Tabasco  as  your  guests 
can  stand;  and,  lastly,  the  sliced  kidneys  and  just 
enough  water  to  cover.  Stew  until  the  kidneys  are 
tender,  then  take  out  with  a  skimmer  all  the  mixture. 
Thicken  the  liquid  remaining  with  the  yolks  of  six 
hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  a  glass  of 
sherry  and  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  chopped,  and,  if  you  want  it  to 
be  extremely  local  in  its  flavor,  serve  some  nicely  boiled 
rice  with  it. 

FEU-  One  must  not  think  of  setting  this  feast 

JOLES  before  his  guests  without  frijoles.     Their 

cooking  takes  time — but  one  is  well  repaid.  A  pint 
of  small  red  Mexican  beans  will  be  sufficient.  Cover 
with  two  quarts  of  water  and  boil  slowly.  Drain 
them,  cover  again  with  cold  water  and  boil,  and  then 
again,  "  three  times  and  out."  Then,  when  the  water 
has  boiled  nearly  away,  add  tv\^o  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
lard,  one  large  Spanish  onion  sliced,  the  Inevitable  gar- 
lic clove,  two  Chili  peppers  (don't  remove  the  seeds 
unless  you  want  the  temperature  lowered),  and  five 
slices  of  bacon.  Simmer  slowly  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  all  day,  stirring  occasionally  with  a  wooden  spoon 
to  thicken  the  gravy.  The  beans  should  be  partly 
broken  when  done.  Half  an  hour  before  serving,  pour 
the  desired  quantity  into  a  Mexican  earthenware  pot, 

92 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
Mexican    and    Creole    Cooking 

pour  over  a  tablespoonful   of   Sierra   Madre   oil,    and 
simmer  until  needed. 

SALADEDEThis  shall  be  the  salad.     With  the  heady 

PIMIENTOS  Mexican  wine — be  sure  you  do  not  drink 

too  much — and  the  clear  strong  coffee  to 

RONES  ,  .,,  ,  r  1         1       ,  , 

come  alter,  you  will  have  a  feast  that  should 

live  in  your  recollection  many  a  day. 

Drain  the  contents  of  a  small  can  of  red  peppers. 
After  drying  in  a  towel,  slice  in  rings,  cut  fine  an  equal 
amount  of  celer}^  and  mix.  Add  one  teacupful  of 
tiny  balls  made  from  MacLaren's  Imperial  cheese, 
which  should  be  rolled  in  fine  cracker  crumbs.  Rub 
the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a.  paste  with  the 
oil  drained  from  the  peppers.  Rub  the  salad  bowl 
with  garlic  and  put  in  the  salad,  over  which  pour  a 
good  French  dressing.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves, 
and  then  pat  yourself  on  the  back  over  the  success  of 
your  dinner.     What  liqueur?     You  know! 

Nowhere  else  in  America  is  there  a  cuisine  like  that 
of  New  Orleans.  The  delicate  blending  of  the  French 
and  Spanish  schools  with  a  sublime — it's  nothing  else — • 
touch  of  negro  cookery  gives  it  a  particularly  unctuous 
flavor,  to  be  compared  perhaps  to  the  musical  Gumbo 
French  spoken  by  the  darkies  in  the  kitchen. 

The  salient  points  of  this  Creole  cookery  are  the 
artistic  manipulation  of  the  onion,  which  gives  to  cook- 
ing the  same  suggestion  of  diablerie  to  be  found  in  the 
coquettish  smile  of  a  pretty  w^oman — nothing  more  tan- 
gible— the  uses  of  roux,  and  the  coffee.     One  who  has 

93 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Mexican    and   Creole    Cooking 

tasted  New  Orleans  coffee  will  give  it  precedence  over 
Turkish,  Dutch,  or  the  cafe  au  lait  of  La  Belle  France. 
Nowhere  have  housewives  labored  more  devotedly 
than  in  New  Orleans,  where  they  have  striven  for  gen- 
erations to  preserve  their  own  peculiar  cooking,  and  in 
most  households  one  will  be  served  at  every  meal  with 
at  least  one  dish  t^^pical  of  the  Creole  cuisine.  Among 
the  most  famous  of  these  plats  are  a  few  that  will  bear 
trying  in  the  bachelor  kitchen.  And  the  first  is  from 
no  less  talented  a  lady  than  Dorothy  Dix.  Men  may 
not  altogether  approve  of  her  unerring  printed  judg- 
ment of  them,  but  her  oysters  are  sure  to  be  popular 
with  the  most  critical. 

OYSTERS     For  each  person  to  be  served  select  half  a 
A  LA  dozen  large  oysters  in  the  shell  and  roast 

DOROTHY  thei^^  When  done,  remove  the  upper  shell, 
leaving  the  oyster  in  the  lower,  and  serve 
on  hot  oj^ster  plates.  For  the  accompanying  sauce, 
allow  for  each  individual  one  heaping  teaspoon  butter, 
which  should  be  melted,  juice  of  one-fourth  a  lemon, 
a  drop  of  Tabasco,  a  drop  of  onion  juice,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt,  with  a  sprinkling  of  chopped  parsley  thrown 
in  while  blending.  Pour  sizzling  hot  over  the  oysters 
and  serve.  Some  toasted  saltines  will  accompany  this, 
and  one's  favorite  brand  of  imported  beer,  or  perhaps 
a  bottle  of  Scotch  ale. 

Have  you  eaten  Creole  bisque?     Then  of  course  you 
will  want  to  make  that  for  your  formal  dinner,  for  it 

94 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Mexican    Creole    Cooking 

Is  a  delight,  and  will  surely  be  a  success  If  the  follow- 
ing rule  Is  carefully  followed. 

CREOLE  Half  a  dozen  slices  of  okra  or  half  a  can  of 
BISQUE  canned  okra  should  be  used.  If  fresh, 
wash  and  slice.  Add  half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  one 
sliced  onion,  three  whole  cloves,  a  finely-chopped 
green  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  all- 
spice and  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cover 
Chese  Ingredients  with  a  quart  of  cold  water  and  place 
on  the  fire  in  an  enamel  kettle  and  bring  to  the  boiling 
point.  Add  more  w^ater,  if  needed,  then  strain  and  set 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  it  will  not  boil.  In  a 
double  boiler  heat  one  pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with 
a  small  teaspoon  of  corn  starch  blended  with  a  little 
cream  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Then  pour  the  prepared 
soup  into  a  tureen,  stir  in  a  pinch  of  baking  soda  to 
prevent  curdling,  and  pour  over  the  cream  sauce,  stir- 
ring all  the  while.  Stir  in  croutons  of  toasted  bread 
and  serve  very  hot. 

CREAM  This  is  another  Creole  soup  that  will  find 
OF  PEA  instant  favor.  Have  a  can  of  small  French 
SOUP  peas,  drain  and  w^ash  carefully.     Place  in 

a  small  saucepan,  adding  a  sprig  of  fresh  mint,  a  little 
onion  juice,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and 
a  generous  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Cover  w^ith  a  pint 
of  cold  water  and  cook  until  the  peas  w^ll  easily  mash 
and  press  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire  and  grad- 
ually stir  in  a  half-pint  of  cream  and  a  small  cup  of 

95 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Mexican    and   Creole    Cooking 

milk,  and  just  before  It  comes  to  the  boiling  point  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  blended  to  a  roux  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Pulled  bread  should  be  served  with 
this. 

BOUILLA-  IS  another  typical  Creole  dish — ^but  should 
BAISSE  be  made  on  the  Gulf,  where  the  red  snap- 
per Is  just  from  the  water,  where  the  redfish  is  fresh, 
and  then  only  can  It  be  know^n  In  perfection.  Those 
who  live  on  the  Gulf  know  how^  to  make  It — those  who 
do  not  cannot  obtain  the  Ingredients  In  their  perfection, 
so  I  will  simply  say  it's  delicious. 


96 


feACfleUORT 


mcy^g  BOUCH€:€S 


CHAPTER    XI 

"  Every  animal  but  one  keeps  to 
one  dish." — The  Spectator. 

Every  bachelor  Is  an  epicure — or 
thinks  he  is.  According  to  time  and 
season  and  environment,  the  single 
man  who  has  dabbled  in  cooking  at 
all  will  tell  you  that  he  has  "  the 
best  thing  ever " — then  promptly 
proceeds  to  *'  show  you,"  as  though 
you  w^ere  straight  from  St.  Louis. 

Even  the  New  England  farmer 
has  his  specialties,  which  are  apt,  in 
summer,  to  include  a  famous  dish  of 
pepper  grass,  lettuce,  and  mustard 
leaves  tossed  together  with  salt,  pep- 
per, vinegar,  and  sugar,  as  a  salad 
course;  and  from  *'  Reuben  "  up  to 
the  Marquis  de  Dion,  with  his  suc- 
culent snails  or  "  Escargots  de  Bor- 
deaux," he  runs  the  gamut  of  edibles. 
The  cowboy  on  the  Western  plains 

97 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 


Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

will  show  you  how  to  do  a  "  Mullig^an  "  such  as  w^as 
never  seen  on  the  Emerald  Isle,  and  the  student  just 
home  from  Hefdelberg  will  tell  you  that  no  German 
restaurant  ever  serves  sauerkraut  with  such  delicious 
brown  gravy  as  he  learned  to  make  in  Germany — not 
even  Tony  Faust  of  St.  Louis,  who  certainly  has  this 
continent  beaten  on  the  food  of  the  Fatherland.  The 
American  Art  Student  home  on  his  vacation  will  deftly 
prepare  a  Chateaubriand  by  grilling  a  thick  fillet  be- 
tween two  slices  of  rump  steak,  which  contribute  their 
juices,  but  are  thrown  aside  while  the  fillet  is  being 
delicately  browned  over  the  hot  coals  before  popping 
on  the  hot  platter. 

Among  some  of  these  good  things  collected  from 
bachelors — and  some  benedicts,  too — are  a  few  so 
choice  that  they  must  be  mentioned  as  a  part  of  the 
stock  of  the  Bachelor's  Cupboard.  "  Tell  me  what  a 
man  eats  and  FU  tell  you  what  he  is  "  is  generally  a 
pretty  good  rule  to  follow,  but  have  j^ou  ever  tried  to 
tell  what  a  man  eats  by  what  he  is?  That  is  the  more 
difficult  psychological  problem  to  solve. 

There's  David  Belasco,  for  instance.  One  would 
imagine  that  the  writer  of  "  Zaza  "  and  "  DuBarry  " 
and  all  the  rest  would  be  something  of  an  epicure,  and 
want  his  dishes  highly  seasoned.  As  he  affirms,  there's 
many  a  dish  with  excellent  constituents  that  fails  for 
lack  of  skill  in  combining  them,  just  as  many  a  good 
play  is  ruined  in  the  building,  though  the  raw  material 
may   be   excellent.     An   artistic  proportion   should   be 

98 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

maintained  between  Ingredients,  he  says,  just  as  be- 
tween the  characters  of  a  play.  His  Salmi  of  Goose  Is 
his  favorite  entree,  and  this  is  how  he  has  It  prepared : 

SALMI  Cut  the  remains  of  a  roast  goose  In  small 

OF  oblong  pieces,  removing  the  skin  and  gris- 

GOOSE  ^jg^  Take  the  bones  and  scraps  and  boil 
them  down  until  the  water  is  reduced  to  a  cup  of 
strong  stock.  Add  to  this  a  carrot,  a  young  turnip,  a 
tomato,  an  apple,  and  a  stalk  of  celery,  all  cut  in  dice 
and  previously  parboiled  together  for  ten  minutes. 
Simmer  in  the  gravy  until  they  will  go  through  a  vege- 
table press,  then  put  the  meat  In  the  stock  and  cook  un- 
til tender.  Thicken  the  stock  with  browned  flour,  put 
the  goose  on  some  slices  of  toast,  and  pour  the  gravy 
over  and  surround  with  the  vegetable  puree.  This  is 
guaranteed  to  please. 

FINNAN  Henry  Miller  selected  for  his  gastronomic 
HADDIE  contribution  the  plebeian  finnan  haddle; 
but,  as  he  says.  Its  transformation  makes  it  nothing  short 
of  divine,  especially  when  accompanied  by  fried  green 
peppers.  The  actor-manager  w^ho  prepares  them  does 
them  in  a  chafer  with  no  fuss  at  all.  "  For  finnan 
haddle,"  he  says,  "  have  the  fish  thoroughly  washed, 
and  after  standing  in  cold  water  about  an  hour  put  in 
boiling  v/ater  for  five  minutes,  then  wipe  dry.  Rub 
butter  and  lemon  juice  well  Into  the  fiber  of  the  fish, 
then  broil  over  a  clear  fire  for  fifteen  minutes;  or  if 
the  clear  fire  is  not  handy,  put  in  the  blazer  in  some 

99 

792352A 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

butter,  with  the  cover  on  tight.  Serve  either  with 
hot  butter  sauce  or  tartare  sauce — although  I  incline 
to  the  former. 

"  For  the  fried  green  peppers,  split  them  and  remove 
the  seeds,  then  lay  in  salted  ice  water.  When  they 
feel  crisp,  wipe  them  off  with  a  cloth.  Melt  some 
butter  in  the  blazer,  and  when  smoking  hot  fry  the 
peppers  in  it  until  tender." 

KARTOF-  De  Wolf  Hopper  does  not  hesitate  to 
PEL  admit  that  if  he  were  to  cook  his  favorite 

KLOESSE  (Wishes,  they  would  no  longer  be  favorites. 
"  There  are  too  many  good  things  to  eat,"  he  says, 
"  to  pick  one  special  dish  and  label  it  in  preference  to 
others."  One  of  his  favorite  dishes  was  served  to  him 
in  a  German  restaurant — "  Kartoffel-Kloesse  " — like 
American  potato  dumplings — only  different.  This  is 
how: 

Pare,  boil,  and  mash  potatoes  and  put  aside  to  cool. 
Take  three  cups  of  potatoes,  one  cup  of  bread,  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  beaten  separately,  pepper,  salt,  and  the 
inevitable  nutmeg  to  taste,  and  some  chopped  parsley 
which  has  been  heated  in  butter.  The  bread  should 
be  prepared  as  for  croutons,  and  crushed  after  being 
browned  in  butter  in  the  oven.  The  mixture  should 
be  very  stiff,  then  molded  into  small  balls  and  dropped 
into  salted  water  which  boils  very  fast.  The  water 
should  be  kept  boiling  for  fifteen  minutes,  when  the 
"  Kloesse  "  should  be  puffed  about  twice  the  original 
size  and  done  through  to  the  center.  These  will  make 
anyone  think  himself  transported  to  "  Happyland." 

100 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

Kyrle  Bellew  paraphrases  the  old  maxim,  and  says, 
"  When  In  France,  eat  what  the  Frenchmen  eat  " — 
and  goes  one  better  by  adapting  his  tastes  to  the  cook- 
ery of  the  country  in  which  he  happens  to  be  eating  at 
the  moment.  He  admits,  however,  preferences  for 
Hungarian  Goulash,  as  served  in  Buda  Pesth,  and  a 
Spanish  Omelette  from  a  Madrid  cuisine. 

THE  may  be  easily  prepared,  and  the  ranchman 

GOULASH  may  find  it  a  delightful  change  from  his 
Irish  stew\  A  pound  of  beef  is  cut  Into  little  squares 
and  stewed  gently  an  hour,  without  coming  to  the 
boiling  point,  when  the  "  first  dose  of  paprika  "  is  put 
in.  Also,  tv^'O  carrots  and  two  onions  cut  in  dice. 
Then  more  paprika.  Half  an  hour  before  the  meat 
is  done  add  two  potatoes  and  celery  stalks  cut  fine — 
and  more  paprika.  When  all  is  tender,  serve  on  a  hot 
platter,  with  the  vegetables  surrounding  the  meat. 

THE  is  built   as  follows:  from  a  tablespoonful 

OMELETTE  of  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  or  brown 
ESPANOL  Aq^^  braided  in  a  frying-pan  or  blazer, 
make  a  sauce  by  stirring  in  a  cup  of  canned  tomato, 
half  a  cup  of  thinly-sliced  mushrooms,  and  half  a  cup 
of  chopped  ham.  Season  with  red  pepper,  onion  juice, 
and  salt.  After  simmering  about  ten  minutes,  stir  in 
four  beaten  eggs,  stirring  carefully  as  it  thickens,  and 
w^hen  the  eggs  are  set,  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

SHAVIAN  Arnold  Daly  likes  to  experiment  with  the 
RABBIT  chafing-dish,  but  admits  that  he  never 
dares   to   avail   himself   of   poetic   license,   and   always 

lOI 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

adheres  strictly  to  the  letter  of  the  recipe,  for  he  doesn't 
dare  depend  upon  his  own  judgment.  That  he  re- 
serves for  histrionic  effects  in  "  Candida,"  or  "  How 
He  Lied  to  Her  Husband."  "  My  favorite  recipe  for 
a  hot  bite  after  the  performance,"  he  says,  "  is  to  mix 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  and  some  onion  finely  chopped  and  sifted 
on,  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  paprika,  and  the  whole  popped 
into  the  chafing-dish  and  stirred  until  the  cheese  is 
melted.  Then  I  pour  in  six  eggs  and  stir  until  they 
are  cooked,  blending  carefully  with  the  other  mixture. 
This,  served  on  toast,  makes  an  after-theater  dish 
which  has  won  me  the  envy  of  some  of  my  fairest 
friends  and  a  good  many  nuisances  among  the  fellows, 
for  somehow  actors  never  seem  to  have  enough  of  any- 
thing." 

CRAB  Robert  Edeson  shines  equally  as  a  football 

MEAT  AND  artist  and  a  concoctor  of  chafing-dish 
MUSH-  dainties,  among  which  none  perhaps  is 
ROOMS  more  acceptable  than  crab  meat  and  mush- 
rooms in  the  manner  he  prepares  them.  He  says: 
*'  Take  two  cups  of  crab  meat  cut  in  dice  and  half 
a  can  of  mushrooms,  also  cut  up  in  the  same  size.  Braid 
together  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  stirred  until  smooth ;  then  mix 
the  crab  meat  and  mushrooms  together,  season  with 
paprika,  salt,  and  a  soupcon  of  onion  juice.  Turn  into 
the  hot  sauce  and  cook  three  minutes-,  then  remove  from 
the  flame.    Add  quickly  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 

102 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

heated  with  a  pinch  of  soda,  set  over  the  flame  a  mo- 
ment, add  a  glass  of  sherry,  and  serve  hot. 
DAVID         Hungry  men  who  want  something  more 
HARUM       substantial,  just  wake  up  and  take  notice 
POT  while  William  H.  Crane  tells  how  to  do 

ROAST  ^  Dnvld  Harum  Pot  Roast:  "  Lay  a  round 
of  beef  in  a  deep  pot.  Add  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and 
two  slices  of  onion,  cover  closely,  and  for  every  pound 
of  meat  cook  ten  minutes.  Then  transfer  to  a  drip- 
ping-pan, rub  with  butter,  dredge  with  flour,  and 
brown  in  a  hot  oven.  Strain  and  cool  the  gravy  left 
in  the  pot,  and,  after  removing  the  fat,  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  kitchen 
bouquet.  Thicken  with  a  roux  of  browned  flour  and 
butter,  boil  up  once,  and  serve  poured  around  the 
meat.  It's  not  a  bad  idea  to  put  some  potatoes  that 
have  been  peeled  all  over  around  the  meat  and  let 
them  cook  in  the  oven.  A  little  good  salad,  plenty  of 
fresh  horseradish,  and  something  cold  to  drink,  make 
this  an  ideal  feast  for  the  jaded  palate  that  turns  at 
truflJles  and  mocks  at  mushrooms." 
SCRAM-  Raymond  Hitchcock  transforms  himself  in 
BLED  EGGS  the  twinkling  of  an  eye  from  a  "  Yankee 
AND  Consul "    into    a    maitre   d'hotel,    and    his 

scrambled  eggs  and  cheese  deserve  a  place 
in  the  galaxy  of  stars  recipes.  He  breaks  three  eggs 
and  slips  them  into  the  blazer,  beats  them  with  a 
generous  lump  of  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  cheese,  w^ith  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     It  cooks 

103 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

five  minutes  over  a  brisk  flame,  and  when  just  the 
right  thickness  is  poured  in  a  deep  hot  dish  over 
some  fried  toast,  and  in  three  minutes — only  the  dish 
is  left. 

POMMES  It  is  possible  that  Counte  Boni  de  Castellane 
CASTEL-  invented  the  potato  which  bears  his  name; 
LANE  jf  }^g  ^jj^  j^g  ought  to  have  proper  credit,  for 

it  is  a  mouthful  that  is  certainly  deserving  of  more 
than  mild  praise.  It  is  a  potato  baked  in  its  jacket — 
and  should  be  a  sizeable  one.  Then,  when  it  is  done, 
its  center  is  cut  out  until  it  is  something  of  a  shell,  but 
with  some  good,  plain  potato  still  clinging  to  the  in- 
side. Into  it  there  is  stuffed  a  ''  farce  "  of  crayfish,  the 
mashed  yolks  and  chopped  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs, 
with  plenty  of  good  cream  and  seasoning.  Then  the  hole 
is  closed  with  a  piece  of  the  skin,  the  potato  is  put  back 
into  the  oven  to  heat — then  served  "  en  surprise." 
Imagine  the  immaculate  Count,  if  you  can,  preparing 
this  legume.  More  likely  Paillard  or  Frederick  gave  it 
its  cachet  by  honoring  him  with  its  naming.  Count 
Boni  is  indeed  an  epicure  of  the  younger  French  school, 
which  includes  Marcel  Fouquier,  the  Due  de  Morny, 
Santos-Dumont,  and,  if  you  please,  our  own  James 
Hazen  Hyde,  who  has  nothing  less  than  a  "  poached 
peach  a  la  James  Hazen  Hyde  "  named  for  him  at 
Durand's  in  Paris.  The  peach  is  poached  like  an  egg — 
and  then  has  kirsch  poured  over  it  and  ignited.  This 
completes  its  cooking,  and  the  burnt  kirsch  really 
makes  a  most  delicious  sauce. 
104 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    B  o  u  c  h  e  e  s 

QUAILS        The  Marquis  de  Massa  really  does  Invent 

A  LA  dishes.     Recently  he  gave  to  the  world  a 

MARQUIS  delicious  morsel  in  a  piquant  dish  of  quails 
DE  MASSA  . 

that  he  has  wished  to  bear  the  name  of  a 

Capus.  The  quails  are  "  poached  "  in  a  saucepan, 
which  means  "  completely  cooked  at  slow  ebullition," 
together  with  a  good  quantity  of  Muscatel  grapes  that 
are  yet  green.  When  nearly  done  a  finishing  touch  is 
added  in  a  Madeira  wine — only  a  little,  remember — but 
ah!  what  fascination! 

There  is  a  "  school  "  of  latter-day  epicures  in  Paris 
to  which  the  great  chefs  cater,  and  the  result  is  in 
"  Lobster  Alexander,"  the  "  John  Osy  Zegw^oart  veal," 
''  Poulet  a  la  Dr.  Pendergast,"  the  fish  vol-au-vent 
Stanhope,  and  Lowther,  Rathbone,  Tuck,  J.  W. 
Mackey,  and  General  Williams  eggs — all  named  by 
one  Frederick,  the  only  impressionist  chef  in  Paris, 
whose  specialties  are  sky-blue  sauces,  purple  stuffings, 
and  nile-green  potages — and  the  naming  of  his  culi- 
nary masterpieces  after  favorite  customers — the  rich 
Parisian  wine  merchants  from  Bercy,  and  the  Amer- 
icans. 

SAM-  Although  sweets  have  not  a  large  place  on 

BAYON        bachelor  menus,  there  is  one — a  Milanaise 

X  .^V".^^  delicacy  which  raises  the  entire  meal  from 
LANAISE       1       ,      ,    1       ,      f     1  1    T    1. 

the  dead   level   or  the  usual   Italian   table 

d'hote,  and,  as  prepared  by  Caruso  and  Sgbrilia  and 

other  Italians  with  silver  voices,  enraptures  the  eater 

quite  as  much  as  those  mellow  high  notes.     Just  try 

105 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

a  "  zabajone  a  la  Milanaise,"  and  fancy  eating  it  while 
Enrico  sings  an  impassioned  love  song  from  ''  II  Trova- 
tore  "  or  "  Carmen  " !  But  of  course  the  two  don't 
go  together,  so  the  average  person  will  have  to  sample 
either  by  itself.  Take  for  six  persons  five  yolks  of 
eggs  and  beat  them,  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  until  they 
are  thick,  adding  for  each  egg  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Cook  this  in  a  double 
boiler,  beating  constantly,  until  the  mixture  is  light 
and  fluffy.  Then  add  drop  by  drop  one  half  egg-shell 
full  of  Marsala  wine  for  each  two  eggs.  Serve  at 
once  in  cups  or  punch  glasses.  Care  should  be  taken 
not  to  cook  this  until  it  curdles,  or  to  put  in  too  much 
wine.  It  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  whipped 
cream. 

NORWE-  Superintending  the  building  of  an  Irriga- 
GIAN  BUT-  tion  ditch  in  the  Big  Horn  Basin  of  Wyo- 
TERED  ming   has  been   a  young   Norwegian   civil 

engineer,  one  O.  J.  Midthun  by  name,  and 
''  Mid  "  for  short.  "  Mid  "  is  an  epicure  of  the  deep- 
est dye,  and  patrons  of  the  hotel  Irma  at  Cody  will  not 
forget  the  sanguinary  struggle  between  the  clerk  and 
the  chef — and  all  because  "Mid  "  inaugurated  the  cus- 
tom of  cognac  with  coffee  after  dinner  in  Buffalo  Bill's 
big  hotel.  But  this  is  digressing,  for  I  was  about  to 
give  "  Mid's  "  recipe  for  buttered  eggs  as  served  in 
his  Norwegian  home  at  high  tea,  but  which  may  be 
served  as  a  luncheon  dish  or  a  snack  after  the  play. 
Four  new-laid  eggs  are  required,  and  two  ounces  of 

1 06 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

butter,  a  small  onion,  and  chopped  parsley.  The  eggs, 
well  beaten,  are  poured  into  the  blazer.  In  which  the 
butter  has  been  melting,  together  with  chopped  onion 
and  the  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper.  Keep  stirring  one 
way  until  the  mixture  is  thick,  and  serve  hot — and  there 
you  have  the  favorite  bonne  bouchee  from  Christiania. 
SAUSAGES  When  Prince  Henry  was  feted  In  New 
AND  York   nothing   pleased    him   more    than   a 

CELERY  breakfast  dish  of  sausages  and  celery 
which  was  served  him.  His  Prussian  palate  was 
tickled  so  delightfully  by  this  dainty  that  it  is  doubt- 
less still  being  served  him  on  his  Highness's  royal 
yacht.  To  do  them,  prick  as  many  small  sausages  as 
you  think  the  appetites  of  your  party  demand.  This 
prevents  them  from  bursting.  Put  in  the  blazer  and 
cover  with  a  quarter-cup  of  boiling  water,  and  cook 
until  all  the  water  is  evaporated.  Uncover  and  brown, 
adding  a  little  butter,  or  better  still,  some  bacon  fat. 
Two  or  three  minutes  before  they  are  done  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  celery  and  cook  just  long 
enough  to  be  tender,  but  not  enough  to  lose  the  fresh  cel- 
ery taste.  Serve  either  on  slices  of  brown  bread  or  toast. 
A  SUBLIME  Out  in  the  Canadian  Rockies,  not  many 
SAND-  miles  from  Banff  the  Beautiful,  there  is  a 

WICH  member    of    the    Northwestern    Mounted 

Police  force,  the  scion  of  a  titled  English  family,  with  a 
house  In  Belgravia  and  a  superb  estate  In  Cumberland, 
who  loves  the  free,  wild  life  of  the  hills  in  the  new  coun- 
try, and  lives  it  In  preference  to  the  hothouse  existence 

107 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

of  the  London  Club  and  the  functions  of  Park  Lane. 
No,  I  won't  tell  his  name,  but  many  a  delicious  morsel 
is  concocted  after  his  day's  ride  Is  over;  and  after  a 
plunge  In  the  hot  springs  and  a  gallop  home  to  his 
shanty  with  his  *'  bunkie,"  a  handsome  six-footer  from 
Sheffield,  he  has  his  dish  of  tea,  and  with  it  a  sublime 
sandwich  of  his  own  particular  variety,  which  his 
sister  serves  on  her  house-boat  at  Henley  or  during  the 
shooting  season  at  their  Scottish  castle.  Work  as  much 
brown  sugar  as  is  needed  Into  a  bowl  of  butter  until 
the  butter  has  absorbed  all  that  Is  possible,  then  flavor 
with  old  Jamaica  rum  and  nutmeg  until  It  has  the 
desired  ''  bouquet."  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  whole 
wheat  bread  which  have  been  thinly  buttered,  and  make 
Into  triangular  sandwiches.  This,  with  a  cup  of 
smoking-hot  Ceylon  tea,  would  reconcile  a  man  to  even 
the  "  pink  "  variety  of  afternoon  teas,  especially  If  he 
is  allowed  a  dash  of  the  rum  In  his  teacup. 
SALADE  Salad  Is  the  one  thing  on  the  menu  that 
A  LA  should  be  considered  a  penal  offence  If  Im- 

DUMAS  properly  served.  This  salad  was  devised  by 
Alexandre  Dumas,  and  It  has  become  famous  through- 
out two  continents:  "Put  In  a  salad  bowl  the  yolk 
of  a  hard-boiled  egg;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  oil  and 
make  a  paste  of  It;  then  add  a  few  stalks  of  chervil 
chopped  fine,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  anchovy  and  tunny 
paste,  a  soupgon  of  French  mustard,  a  small  pickled 
cucumber  chopped  fine,  and  a  little  soy.  Mix  the 
w^hole  well  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  wine  vln- 
io8 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouehees 

egar,  then  add  two  or  three  cold  potatoes  sliced,  a  few- 
slices  of  beet,  some  of  celeriac  and  rampion,  salt  and 
pepper — the  Hungarian  variety — to  taste;  toss  gently 
with  a  wooden  spoon  and  fork  for  twenty  minutes; 
then  serve. 

SAUCE  is  a  savory  addition  to  a  salad.  To  make 
A  LA  IT AL- it,  chop  one  or  two  anchovies  quite  fine 
lENNE  ^j^j  y^^j  smoothly  in  one  teaspoonful  made 

mustard  and  a  tablespoonful  of  oil ;  then  add  by  de- 
grees three  more  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one  of  garlic 
vinegar,  and  one  of  good  wine  vinegar;  stir  until 
smooth  and  creamy  and  serve  in  a  bowl,  to  add  sep- 
arately to  the  salad  at  table. 

D'Albignac  of  Limousin,  who  was  a  favorite  in 
London  through  his  skill  in  mixing  salads,  made  a 
great  fortune  there  through  his  matchless  art.  This 
is  his 

SAUCE  Melt  half  a  pound  of  butter;  strain  into 

MAITRE  It  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  add  salt,  pep- 
D  HOTEL     pgj.^  cayenne,  and  parsley  to  suit  the  taste. 

SAUCE  Put  into  a  dish  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a 

TATARE  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  little  salt. 
Mix  this  quickly  into  a  cream,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
mixed  mustard,  cayenne,  and  a  pinch  of  parsley.  Two 
spoonfuls  of  oil  should  now  be  added,  drop  by  drop. 

SAUCE  for   chops   and   cutlets.     Cut   two   onions 

ROBERT  in  small  pieces,  fry  light  brown  in  but- 
ter, dredge  a  little  flour  in  the  pan,  and  add  a  tea- 

109 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

spoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Let 
boil  up,  and  after  stirring  half  an  hour  mix  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard  and  one  of  anchovy.  Stir  for  a 
few  moments  before  pouring  over  the  chops. 

SAUCE  FI-  A  pint  of  rich  stock,  an  ounce  of  brown 
NANCIERE  thickening,  one  glass  of  Madeira,  one  glass 
of  mushroom  ketchup,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  a  piece 
of  glaze.  Boil  the  stock  well  up  with  the  thickening, 
then  add  other  condiments.  Simmer  fifteen  minutes 
and  add  the  glaze,  straining  for  use. 

MOCK  is  a  famous  dish,  and  when  the  real  thing 

VENISON  is  "  out  of  season,"  a  man  can  generally 
succeed  in  convincing  his  friends  that  he  is  dodging  the 
game  warden  if  he  follows  this  recipe  well:  Into  the 
blazer  put  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  work 
with  a  spoon  until  it  creams  and  foams.  Then  cut  in 
some  thick,  rare  slices  from  a  w^ell-hung  leg  of  mutton, 
turn  in  the  hot  butter  once  or  twice,  season  with  cay- 
enne, two  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  a  gill  of  old 
port,  and  simmer  a  few  minutes  longer.  There  is 
nothing  better  to  serve  with  this  than  crisp  lettuce 
hearts  and  plain  French  dressing. 

KIDNEYS  How  would  kidneys  and-  mushrooms  go 
AND  with  a  bottle  of  Dog's  Head  for  a  little 

MUSH-         snack    after    the    play?     Have    ready    six 
lamb's  kidneys,  halved  and  skinned.     Half 
a  can  of  French  button  mushrooms  will  also  be  needed. 
Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  the  blazer  and  brown 
no 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Bachelor    Bonnes    B  o  u  c  h  e  e  s 

a  minced  onion  in  it,  then  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  add  half  a  can  of  bouillon,  stirring  carefully  and 
not  forgetting  to  add  a  bay  leaf.  Next  goes  In  a 
spoonful  of  kitchen  bouquet  to  give  it  that  brown  rich- 
ness, some  salt  and  cayenne,  and  a  bit  of  chile  pepper. 
Throw  in  the  kidneys  and  mushrooms,  and  when  they 
have  heated  thoroughly,  and  the  edges  of  the  kidneys 
are  deliciously  curled — eat  them. 

A  COM-       is    a    good    accompaniment    If    the    palate 

MODORE     craves  cheese  with   the   ale.     Mash   up   a 

GbRRY  generous  slice  of  soft,  ripe  cheese  with  vin- 
"CRAB"  . 

egar,  mustard,  salt,  and  pepper  until  smooth 

paste    and    spread    on    toasted    crackers   of    the   saltine 

variety.     It   has   the   genuine   crab    flavor,   and   is   an 

ornament  to  the  Commodore,  in  truth. 

EGGS  This  is   the   chef  d'ceuvre  of  a   Marchese 

A  LA  who  does  not  disdain  to  roll  back  his  im- 

MESSINA  maculate  cuffs  and  go  into  the  kitchen — 
for  who  else  could  he  entrust  with  his  famous  bonnes 
boucheesf  The  recipe  has  been  handed  down  in  the 
house  of  this  Sicilian  nobleman  for  no  one  dares  say 
how  many  generations.  Boil  six  eggs  until  hard,  then 
remove  the  shells.  Roll  them  in  flour,  then  in  a  beaten 
egg  to  which  has  been  added  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
oil  and  the  same  of  vinegar,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice, 
a  dash  of  grated  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper,  and  chopped 
parsley.  When  quite  well  covered,  roll  again  In  ver- 
micelli broken  into  fine  bits,  and  put  in  the  frying  bas- 

III 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
Bachelor    Bonnes    Bouchees 

ket  and  plunge  in  deep  lard,  iry'mg  until  golden  brown. 
Arrange  on  a  deep  platter  and  pour  over  them  the  fol- 
lowing sauce:  Put  in  the  blazer  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  braid  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
which  should  gently  brown.  Add  one-half  cup- 
ful of  Italian  white  wine  and  a  half-can  of  bouillon, 
salt,  and  cayenne.  After  boiling  about  fifteen  minutes 
add  a  teaspoonful  each  of  chopped  chives,  parsley,  a 
few  stoned  olives,  and  as  many  mushrooms  as  you 
think  it  will  stand.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  serve  piping 
hot  with  Chianti,  or,  better  still,  Brachetto  SpumantI 
or  Lachrima  Christi. 


112 


CHAPTER    XII 

"Good  living  is  due  to  that  action  oftte 
judgment  by  which  things  that  please  our 
taste  are  preferable  to  all  others."— Savarin. 

In  the  Bachelor's  Cupboard  there 
are  many  condiments.  The  epicure 
has  so  cultivated  his  taste  that  he 
can  tell  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye 
just  what  ones  are  used  in  the  prep- 
aration of  a  dish,  just  what  it  lacks, 
or,  perchance,  if  there  be  too  much 
of  one  seasoning. 

By  his  knowledge  and  apprecia- 
tion of  condiments  is  the  epicure  rec- 
ognized ;  insipidity  of  taste  goes  with 
lack  of  character,  and  the  greatest  of 
dullards  satisfies  himself  with  the 
simplest  of  foods.  To  be  an  epicure 
does  not  necessarily  mean  that  a  man 
must  be  possessed  of  means;  for,  as 
Savarin  tells  us,  "  the  pleasures  of 
the  table  are  common  to  all  ranks 
and  ages,  to  all  countries  and  times; 

113 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Concerning    Condiments 

they  not  only  harmonize  with  other  pleasures,  but  re- 
main to  console  us  for  their  loss."  The  discovery  of 
a  new  dish,  he  says,  does  more  than  the  discovery  of  si 
planet  for  the  happiness  of  the  human  race. 

The  true  epicure  has  an  intuitive  knowledge  of 
taste.  He  can  tell  immediately  as  the  cover  is  lifted 
from  a  dish,  by  the  aroma,  just  what  the  seasonings 
are.  And  his  knowledge  of  the  condiments  of  all 
nations  is  positively  uncanny,  and  suggests  more  than 
one  reincarnation.  An  authority  on  curries,  a  dis- 
serter  on  culinary  arts  of  the  time  of  Confucius  and 
Pliny,  he  can  tell  of  the  last  feast  served  in  Pompeii 
and  what  Nero  last  drank  and  how  Napoleon  fared 
at  St.  Helena.  He  can  recite  a  list  of  the  dishes  at  a 
feast  of  Lucullus,  and  tell  precisely  how  many  orto- 
lans were  sacrificed  for  it,  the  age  of  a  ripe  oilve,  and 
the  vintage  of  a  claret,  by  its  bouquet.  The  deriva- 
tion of  each  seasoning  and  the  country  of  its  discovery 
are  as  simple  to  him  as  the  rule  of  three ;  and  there  is  to 
him  the  same  delight  in  dissecting  a  dish  and  in  rem- 
iniscing on  its  origin  as  there  is  to  the  Egyptologist  in 
deciphering  some  graven  stone  found  in  a  long-closed 
tomb. 

The  bachelor  who  is  or  expects  to  be  an  epicure 
may  begin  with  a  few  simple  facts  about  condiments, 
and  from  this  knowledge  cull  an  appreciation  for 
things  epicurean  that  will  enable  him  to  become  a  self- 
taught  Sybarite  of  the  deepest  dye.  The  bourgeoisie 
of  France  teach  us  that  it  is  not  the  quality  of  the  meat, 
114 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Concerning    Condiments 

but  its  seasoning,  that  gives  it  that  perfection  we  recog- 
nize. A  five-penny  soup  bone  may  attain  by  judicious 
seasoning  at  the  hand  of  the  French  jemme  de  cuisine 
the  dignity  of  a  plat  at  the  Cafe  Royale. 

In  stocking  the  cupboard,  then,  do  not  forget  the 
value  that  lies  in  the  condiments,  for  without  them  no 
dish  is  palatable.  The  simplest  of  them  all,  the  ple- 
beian salt,  is  the  most  necessary,  and  without  it  the 
finest  feast  would  be  impossible. 

Pepper  is  another  essential,  and  the  varieties  that 
should  be  included  are  black  pepper  and  white  pepper, 
each  obtained  from  a  plant  both  wild  and  cultivated, 
growing  in  India.  Cayenne  pepper  Is  the  sharpest 
variety,  and  the  sweet  chile  pepper  of  New  Orleans 
and  Mexican  cities,  which  is  much  milder,  is  also  de- 
sirable. The  pimientos  belong  to  the  pepper  family, 
and  no  one  should  fall  to  include  In  his  condiment  cup- 
board a  few  cans  of  the  Pimientos  Morrones,  or  sweet 
peppers  put  up  In  oil.  Chile  pepper  occupies  the  same 
place  in  Creole  cookery  that  curry  powder  holds  in 
that  of  India  and  Ceylon.  Paprika  Is  the  national  sea- 
soning of  Hungary,  and  is  perhaps  a  shade  stronger 
than  the  chile  pepper,  and  vastly  better  for  use  In 
dishes  containing  cheese.  Here  is  a  fact  that  should 
be  remembered :  It  is  said  by  a  famous  physician  that  If 
a  person  eats  every  day  a  little  red  pepper  with  his 
food,  he  will  never  become  a  paralytic.  But  by  the 
same  token,  there  is  danger  In  eating  too  much,  as  one's 
stomach  may  easily  become  burned  by  it. 

115 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Concerning    Condiments 

When  Louis  XV.  at  the  request  of  Madame  Du 
Barry  conferred  the  order  of  "  cordon  bleu  "  upon  the 
cook  In  recognition  of  her  perfect  cooking,  he  was  quite 
overcome  at  the  perfection  of  each  dish  and  its  sea- 
soning. The  French  as  a  race  are  past  masters  at  the 
art  of  seasoning  food,  and  devote  the  same  attention  to 
these  culinary  masterpieces  that  a  poet  or  painter  does 
to  his  art.  A  list  of  condiments  and  their  uses  may 
aid  the  bachelor  In  preparing  his  feasts,  and  from  it  he 
may  select  whatever  suits  the  individual  taste. 

ANCHOVY  A  British  firm  practically  controls  the 
ESSENCE  world's  market  in  the  manufacture  of 
anchovy  essence,  which  is  made  from  a  little  sea  fish 
caught  in  the  Mediterranean.  It  can  be  bought 
for  use  as  hors  d'oeuvres  in  little  kegs  or  In  bottles 
as  packed  In  Italy.  The  essence  is  used  in  flavoring 
fish  sauces,  and  the  anchovy  paste  or  anchovy  but- 
ter which  comes  in  small  jars  Is  used  spread  upon 
canapes  and  on  hot  toast,  while  It  Is  used  in  England 
in  sandwiches  served  at  afternoon  tea.  Anchovy 
eggs  are  appetizers  made  from  hard-boiled  eggs,  the 
yolks  mashed  with  anchovy  paste  and  returned  to  the 
cavities. 

AROMA-  is  a  fine  salt  having  mixed  with  It  for 
TIC  SALT  ready  use  pepper,  mace,  bay  leaf,  rose- 
mary, sage,  thyme,  celery  seed,  and  perhaps  other  ingre- 
dients. It  saves  time  and  trouble  in  mixing  the  vari- 
ous seasonings  necessary  for  soups,  etc. 

ii6 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Concerning    Condiments 

BEAR-  A  Swiss  sauce  named  from  King  Henry, 

NAISE  ^'-phe  Bearnaise,"  in  his  Swiss  home.     A 

SAIJCF 

popular  sauce  for  serving  with  beefsteaks 

and  fillet  of  beef. 

CAPERS  Pickled  green  berries  from  a  shrub,  an  old- 
time  relish  to  eat  with  mutton.  Caper  sauce  is  made 
from  butter  sauce  mixed  with  capers  and  the  caper 
vinegar.  Capers  are  used  as  well  in  certain  salads. 
The  pods  of  the  nasturtium  flow^er  are  often  used  as 
a  substitute. 

CA-  is  a  relish  beloved  of  gourmands  the  world 

VIARE  over.     In    Berlin    a   favorite   supper   dish, 

served  with  cayenne  and  lemon,  bread  and  butter.  In 
London,  as  a  sandwich,  and  in  America  commonly 
served  as  "  canapes  a  la  Russe!'  It  is  the  salted  and 
smoked  roe  of  the  sturgeon,  and  generally  branded  as 
Russian,  although  it  is  coming  to  be  made  in  this 
country  to  some  extent. 

CELERY  is  ground  celery  seeds  added  to  common 
SALT  salt,  and  a  very  necessary  adjunct  to  the 

bachelor's  cupboard. 

CHILI  is  made  from  Mexican  sweet  peppers,  finely 

COLO-  minced  in  vinegar  pickle.     Can  be  bought 

RADO  jj^  bottles  and  excellent  for  oysters  or  cold 

SAUCE 

meats. 

CHILI  is  a  sauce  or  relish  made  from  tomatoes, 

SAUCE  green    peppers,     and     spices.     A    favorite 

sauce  for  cold  meats  in  America. 

117 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Concerning    Condiments 

CHOW  is  made  from  mfxed  pickles  thickened  with 
CHOW         scalded   mustard. 

CHUTNEY  is  an  East  Indian  sweet  pickle,  similar  to 
Bengal  Chutney.  One  may  also  buy  mango  chutney, 
a  characteristic  Singhalese  condiment,  particularly  good 
with  curry. 

CURRY  is  a  yellow^  powder  of  which  the  principal 
POWDER  Ingredient  is  turmeric,  a  species  of  ginger. 
When  one  speaks  of  Ceylon  and  of  India,  his  thoughts 
naturally  revert  to  curries,  which  are  served  there  in 
such  delicious  variety.  Many  of  the  London  clubs 
having  their  culinary  specialties,  notably  the  Oriental 
in  Hanover  Square,  where  curried  prawns  are  served 
at  their  best;  the  Garrick,  and  the  little  grill  over 
Toole's  Theater,  where  the  curries  are  flavored  with 
tamarinds.  Every  bachelor  menage  should  be  supplied 
with  curry,  and  the  making  of  the  various  kinds  will 
give  the  cook  a  wide  knowledge  of  dry  curry,  Singhal- 
ese curry,  and  so  on  through  a  long  list. 
ESTRA-  ^^^  ^^  same — a  garden  herb  used  for 
GON  AND  flavoring  vinegar.  Tarragon  vinegar  is  a 
TARRA-  necessary  Ingredient  In  the  making  of  spe- 
^^^  clal  salads  and  sauces. 

FINE  may  be  purchased   already  mixed   In   tins, 

HERBS  and  poultry  seasoning,  which  Is  practically 

the  same,  is  excellent  for  stuffing,  the  Bell's  Poultry 
Seasoning  being  the  best  known  variety. 
FINAN-         consists     of     brown     sauce     with     sherry, 
CIERE  cocks'     combs,     livers,     pieces     of     sweet- 

GARNISH     breads,  etc. 

Ii8 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Concerning    Condiments 

FRENCH  is  an  indefinite  name  for  a  variety  of  salad 
DRESSING  dressings,  but  commonly  made  from  salt, 
pepper,  oil,  and  vinegar,  with  perhaps  a  bit  of  red 
wine  to  color  it. 

GARLIC  is  a  member  of  the  onion  family,  and  de- 
licious, if  used  with  great  care.  Italian  and  Spanish 
cooks  are  masters  in  the  art  of  using  it,  and  a  ''  clove 
of  garlic  "  is  simply  one  of  the  divisions  of  the  bulb, 
not  a  head  of  garlic.  It  should  be  in  every  menage,  if 
for  nothing  but  to  rub  a  salad  bowl,  which  imparts  a 
delicious  flavor  to  the  salad. 
HARVEY'S  is  an  English  relish. 
SAUCE 

HORSE-  is  the  root  of  a  plant  bottled  in  vinegar. 
RADISH  German  horseradish  sauce  is  grated  horse- 
radish boiled  either  in  gravy  or  water,  to  which  yolks 
beaten  up  in  cream  and  vinegar  are  added,  but  not 
allowed  to  boil.  English  horseradish  sauce  is  simply  the 
root  grated  into  vinegar,  preferably  Tarragon  vinegar. 
Horseradish  mustard  is  an  excellent  condiment  for  cold 
beef,  and  horseradish  butter  is  made  from  grated  horse- 
radish, lemon  juice,  and  butter  kneaded  together  for  a 
beefsteak  sauce,  and  served  at  the  famous  Beefsteak 
Club  in  London. 

MACE-  A  French  product  used   for  soups,  salads, 

DOINE  and  garnishing  planked  steaks.  They  come 

VEGE-  j'j^  glass,  with  carrots,  turnips,  string  beans, 

peas,  and  green  beans,  a  delightful  melange 
of  color,  and  delicious  when  served  with  a  plain  French 
dressing  as  a  salad. 

119 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Concerning    Condiments 

MANGO       are   stuffed   young   melons   or   cucumbers, 
PICKLES       and  an  admirable  relish  with  cold  cuts. 
MAYON-     is  an  uncooked  salad  dressing  made  from 
NAISE  oil  and  the  yolks  of  eggs,  mustard,  lemon 

juice  or  vinegar,  and  salt. 

MINT  is  chopped  green  mint,  vinegar,  and  sugar, 

SAUCE  mixed  and  served  cold  with  lamb  or  mut- 

ton. Also  served  in  America  with  hot  roast  lamb, 
but  never  in  England. 

MUSH-  tinned,  are  a  necessity  for  use  in  many 
ROOMS  entrees,  or  cooked  in  the  chafing-dish  by 
themselves.  Cepes  are  large  mushrooms  preserved  in 
oil,  and  mushroom  catsup  is  a  delicious  relish.  Mush- 
rooms dried,  can  be  bought  at  Italian  groceries  and  are 
better  as  to  flavor  than  the  tinned  variety,  v^hen  used 
for  sauces  and  garnishes  for  steaks. 

MUSTARD  is  one  of  the  essentials,  like  salt,  in  every 
cupboard.  Epicures  in  Shakespeare's  time  ate  mustard 
w^ith  pancakes.  Several  varieties  of  mixed  mustards 
may  be  bought  in  glass,  notably  the  German  mustard 
and  English  mustard.  Mustard  mixed  in  warm  water 
is  a  valuable  emetic  in  case  of  poisoning,  and  mustard 
plasters  and  hot  mustard-water  foot-baths  make  this 
condiment  an  especially  valuable  one. 
NOODLES,  are  respectively  the  American,  French,  and 
NOUILLES    German  names  for  a  yellow  paste  similar 

^^^  to   macaroni,   but  containing  the  yolks  of 

NUDELN  T-k  T  •  1     1   Ti 

eggs.     Delicious  as  cooked  like  macaroni, 

and  much  used  also  in  clear  soups. 
1 20 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Concerning    Condiments 

OIL  is  one  of  the  most  important  of  condiments, 

and  used  by  the  Latin  races  In  their  cookery  in  prefer- 
ence to  butter.  Olive  oil  Is  obtained  by  crushing  and 
pressing  the  olives  In  sacks,  after  which  it  is  subjected 
to  a  refining  process.  A  vast  quantity  is  produced 
annually  In  France,  Italy,  and  Spain,  and  In  Califor- 
nia It  Is  coming  to  be  one  of  the  staple  products. 
There  are  many  varieties,  but  In  Italian  oil  the  Lucca 
Is  considered  the  best,  and  can  best  be  had  from  Italian 
grocers  in  bulk.  Most  epicures,  however,  prefer  what 
is  said  to  be  the  finest  oil  made,  the  French  ''  Veuve 
Chaffard,"  which  has  a  slight  greenish  tinge,  and  Is 
carefully  bottled. 

The  two  distinct  schools  of  cookery  In  France  are 
the  " langue  d'OU"  which  Is  distinct  from  the 
''  langue  d'Oc,"  In  the  Northern  cuisines  and  in 
Paris  butter  is  the  principal  vehicle,  but  in  the 
sunny  Riviera  and  the  Midi  oil  is  the  chief  asslmilator. 
French  authorities  hold  that  the  ''  cuisine  au  beurre  '* 
is  more  conducive  to  digestion  than  the  "  cuisine  a 
I'huile."  A  thoroughly  educated  palate  may  soon  learn 
to  distinguish  the  French  oil  from  the  Italian. 
OLIVES  are  the  most  popular  of  hors  d'ceuvres  in 
this  country  and  In  Europe.  There  are  many  varie- 
ties, the  best  the  Spanish  Queen  olives  of  mammoth 
size;  then  the  Sicilian  olives,  the  ripe  olives  of  Cali- 
fornia, and  olives  stuffed  with  red  peppers  and  ancho- 
vies, as  well  as  pickled  olives.  No  well-regulated  cup- 
board should  be  without  them. 

121 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Concerning    Condiments 

OSCAR'S      is    the    chef    d'oeuvre    of    Oscar    of    the 
SAUCE  Waldorf-Astoria. 

PARME-       is  an  Italian  cheese  which  comes  grated  In 
SAN  bottles,    and    an    Indispensable   accompanl- 

CHEESE         ment  to  most  Italian  dishes,  such  as  maca- 
roni, spaghetti,  ravioli,  onion  soup,  and  all  soups  made 
from  Italian  pastes. 
PIMIENTO   is  allspice. 

PIMIENTO  are  canned  sweet  peppers. 

MORRONES 

SAGE  Is  the  best  herb  flavoring  for  pork,  sausage, 

goose,    and    tame    duck.     Can    be   bought    In    pressed 

packages  or  ground  In  tins. 

SAVORY      is   another  soup   herb   that  comes   in   two 

varieties — summer  and  w^Inter  savory.     Better  bought 

green    from   the   green-grocer   than    in    the   pow^dered 

state. 

SOY  is  a  bottled  sauce  of  high  flavor,  Imported 

from  China  and  India. 

TABASCO    is    the    "  hottest "    sauce    known.     Indis- 
SAUCE  pensable. 

TRUFFLES  A  fungus  growing  underground,  and  es- 
teemed as  a  great  luxury  In  Europe.  Principally  used 
in  game  pates,  boned  capon,  and  other  made  dishes, 
the  Perlgord  variety  being  the  most  choice. 
TARTARE  is  mayonnaise  mixed  with  chopped  onion 
SAUCE  and  parsley  and  served  with  fish.     Olives 

and  pickles  are  also  added,  when  desired. 

122 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Concerning    Condiments 

VINEGAR  is  best  bought  bottled,  unless  one  Is  sure 
of  getting  the  finest  cider  or  maple-sugar  vinegar  made 
by  New  England  farmers.  White-wine  vinegar  Is  also 
delicious  for  salads,  and  this,  with  the  common  variety, 
a  bottle  of  Tarragon  vinegar,  and  a  small  jug  contain- 
ing vinegar  Into  which  the  dregs  may  be  emptied  from 
wine  bottles  and  kept  for  French  dressing,  should  be 
found  In  every  cuisine.  Many  condiments  may  be  dis- 
pensed with,  but  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  and  mus- 
tard are  the  essentials  with  which  a  man  of  moderate 
means  may  get  on  nicely  In  the  preparation  of  simple 
repasts. 

WORCES-  is  an  English  relish  of  world-wide  fame. 
TERSHIRE  Essential  for  a  Welsh  rabbit  and  has  a 
SAUCE  variety  of  uses. 


'mwii 


123 


CHAPTER   XIII 

"He   ttat   waits  upon  fortune  is   never 
sure  of  a  dinner." 

At  times  there  seems  to  be  a  craving 
for  vegetables  that  is  irresistible. 
Possibly  the  hungry  bachelor  may 
have  a  Sunday  luncheon  In  progress, 
or  mayhap  a  more  than  usually  sub- 
stantial supper  at  which  he  wishes  to 
serve  up  in  some  succulent  form  a 
vegetarian  snack.  For  him,  then,  let 
these  few  chafing-dish  recipes  be  set 
down. 

BROILED  Does  it  seem  possible 
TOMATOES  that  the  luscious  tomato 
was  ever  considered  poisonous  and 
that  sure  death  awaited  the  eater?  A 
fact  It  is,  though,  but  most  of  us 
would  prefer  to  think  of  this  vegeta- 
ble as  the  one-time  "  love-apple  " ; 
surely  it  is  a  name  that  conjures  up 
more  delightful  thoughts  when  the 
125 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Variations    with    Vegetables 

juicy  red  tomatoes  are  broiling.  Put  in  the  blazer 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  while  it  melts  cut  in 
thick  slices  some  large  ripe  tomatoes.  Dust  them  with 
salt,  pepper,  and,  if  the  tooth  be  sweet,  a  bit  of  sugar; 
then  dip  in  cracker  dust  and  lay  in  the  blazer,  turn- 
ing frequently  until  they  look  "  just  right  to  eat." 
They  make  a  delightful  accompaniment  for  a  chop  or 
a  deviled  kidney. 

PEAS  A  LA  This  shall  be  the  name  for  a  dish  of  peas, 
BOUDET  for  at  the  little  Cafe  Boudet  on  the  corner 
of  the  Boulevard  Raspail  and  the  Rue  Leopold  Robert, 
in  Paris,  is  a  quaint  little  cafe  with  a  ''  cuisine  bour- 
geoise"  w^here  the  jovial  ''  cuisiniere  des  legumes  ^^ 
kindly  favored  me  with  her  recipe  for  the  most  deli- 
cious peas  I  ever  tasted.  A  slice  or  two  of  fat  bacon 
or  salt  pork  is  cut  in  dice  and  put  in  the  blazer  to  fry 
gently,  and  a  small  onion  is  sliced  into  the  fat  when  it 
is  hot  and  sizzling.  When  the  onion  is  brown  and 
tender  and  the  bacon  is  crisp,  a  can  of  French  petits 
pois  is  drained  of  the  liquid  and  turned  into  the  mix- 
ture, with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Two  or 
three  spoonfuls  of  thin  cream  may  be  added  a  discretion, 
and  this  is  a  dish  fit  for  Napoleon  himself. 
CREAMED  A  small  can  of  French  mushrooms,  which 
MUSH-  rnay  be  bought  for  fifteen  or  twenty  cents, 
ROOMS  rnakes  from  four  to  six  portions  of  creamed 
mushrooms.  Happy  be  the  bachelor  who  is  an  authority 
on  Mycology;  he  may  go  into  the  fields  or  woods  and 
select  his  own  mushrooms,  buttons,  puff-balls,  or  fairy 
rings,  and  prepare  them  as  best  suits  him.  But  "  in  de 
126 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Variations    with    Vegetables 

vinter  time,"  when  the  market  price  of  fresh  mushrooms 
puts  them  beyond  the  pale,  the  canned  ones  may  be  sub- 
stituted with  good  result.  Into  the  blazer  put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful 
(level)  of  flour;  when  this  has  blended,  stir  into  it  a 
cup  of  thin  cream,  or  even  a  cup  of  milk,  if  you  desire 
to  be  economical.  V^hen  this  has  heated,  turn  in  the 
mushrooms,  and  serve  when  hot  on  slices  of  toast  that 
are  crisp  and  well-buttered.  Creamed  potatoes  are 
prepared  in  the  same  way,  substituting  for  the  mush- 
rooms cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  dice  and  perhaps  a 
suspicion  of  chopped  parsley. 

POMMES  The  Latin  races  are  famous  for  their  pro- 
SAUTE  lific  use  of  olive  oil ;  and  truly,  it  imparts  a 
delicacy  that  makes  even  fried  food  palatable — if  one 
likes  oil.  It's  said  to  be  an  acquired  taste,  and  many 
people  are  unable  ever  to  like  it ;  but  as  this  book  is  sup- 
posed to  cater  to  epicures,  and  to  be  an  epicure  one 
must  like  olive  oil.  I'll  tell  you  how  saute  potatoes  are 
done  as  they  do  them  in  a  queer  little  restaurant  in  the 
Rue  de  la  Grande  Chaumiere,  in  Paris.  The  Russian 
exile  who  keeps  it  is  anarchistic  in  his  conversation,  but 
his  saute  potatoes  will  cover  a  multitude  of  anarchistic 
tendencies.  Slice  very  thin  raw  potatoes  that  have 
been  peeled  and  laid  in  very  cold  water  for  a  few  min- 
utes. Have  in  the  blazer  a  liberal  quantity  of  fresh 
huile  d'oUveSy  the  "Veuve  Chaffard "  variety,  and 
after  it  is  smoking  hot,  dry  the  potatoes  in  a  towel 
and  put  in  the  oil,  with  salt  and  pepper.  Saute  gently 
with  a  fork  every  now  and  then  until  quite  done. 

127 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Variations    with    Vegetables 

HASHED  Shall  these  accompany  the  grilled  steak? 
BROWN  Put  then  in  the  blazer  two  tablespoonfuls 
POTATOES  Q^  butter  and  one  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  well  and  turn  in  sufficient  cold  boiled  potatoes 
chopped  fine  for  the  meal.  Stir  the  potato  until  it  is 
thoroughly  heated  through,  then  allow  it  to  cook  with- 
out stirring  until  it  is  a  golden  brown.  Turn  out 
in  a  hot  dish,  brown  side  up.  Oil  may  be  used  instead 
of  butter,  and  gives  it  a  delicate  flavor. 

''  Many  dig  their  graves  with  their  teeth" 

said  Ben  Franklin;  but  what  a  glorious  way  to  dig 
them !  If  eating  and  drinking  were  taken  from  us,  life 
wouldn't  be  worth  the  living,  and  there  are  more  who 
die  from  insufficient  food  than  from  good  living.  Good 
livers  who  take  the  proper  amount  of  exercise  are  rarely 
troubled  w^ith  gout  and  the  kindred  ills  the  flesh  of  the 
gourmet  is  heir  to.  Then  ho!  for  the  next  delicacy, 
which  shall  be  a  hitherto-unnamed  dish  of  my  own 
invention.     I  call  it 

MACE-  Into  the  blazer  put  two  generous  table- 
DOINE  spoonfuls  of  butter  or  oil,  and  then  a  can  of 
CHAUD  |.j^g  delicious  French  vegetables  that  come  in 
such  tempting  form — or  a  glass  of  them,  if  this  be  pre- 
ferred. There  will  be  succulent  French  beans,  petits 
poisj  and  tiny  cubes  of  carrots,  turnips,  mayhap  a  bit 
of  parsnip  or  salsify,  and  with  all  this  you  may  like 
a  suspicion  of  onion,  which  may  be  had  by  gently  stir- 
ring in  the  melted  butter  for  a  moment  tw^o  or  three 

128 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 


Variations    with    Veffetabl 


getaoies 


slices  of  onion,  which  are  afterward  removed.  When 
the  vegetables  are  hot,  they  are  good  enough  to  eat 
with  almost  anything;  but  if  there  is  cream  handy,  a 
spoonful  or  two  stirred  through  the  vegetables  is  cer- 
tainly an  improvement.  It  has  a  very  Frenchy  bou- 
quet, this  dish,  and  suggests  one  of  Verlaine's  spring 
poems.    Try  it. 

BRUSSELS  Suppose  you  are  entertaining  an  English- 
SPROUTS  man  and  want  to  give  him  something 
"  homey."  If  you  are  perchance  deviling  slices  of  rare 
roast  beef  in  one  chafer,  then  give  him  some  Brussels 
sprouts  in  the  other,  and  he  will  beam  upon  you  in 
truth.  For  Brussels  sprouts  are  to  Johnny  Bull  what 
rice  is  to  a  Chinaman.  Wash  a  quart  of  sprouts  and 
take  o£E  any  decayed  leaves,  then  boil  until  tender  in 
salted  water.  They  cook  very  quickly.  Take  out  and 
drain,  then  melt  some  good  butter  in  the  blazer  and 
saute  the  sprouts  lightly  in  the  pan,  dusting  lightly  with 
salt  and  pepper.  And  no  matter  how  hot  your 
"  devil,"  don't  neglect  to  have  English  mustard  handy 
for  your  Briton. 

SPA-  This  may  properly  come  under  the  head  of 

GHETTI  vegetables,  and  do  you  know  that  it  can  be 
deliciously  cooked  in  a  chafing-dish?  Have  boiling  in 
the  hot-water  pan  some  salted  water,  and  take  as  much 
spaghetti  as  required,  a  few  sticks  at  a  time,  and  gently 
slide  into  the  boiling  water  without  breaking.  The 
secret  of  good  spaghetti  is  in  not  overcooking  it,  as  Joe 
of  the  Cafe  Angelo  in  Boston's  Little  Italy  told  me; 

129 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Variations    with    Vegetables 

and  he  knows.  When  it  is  done,  which  w^ill  be  in 
about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  drain  and  put  in  the 
blazer  some  butter — two  tablespoonfuls.  Into  this 
work  a  little  flour,  and,  if  you  want  spaghetti  with 
cream,  put  in  a  cup  of  milk  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  when  it  is  smooth  and  thick,  add  the  spaghetti. 
Pass  grated  Parmesan  cheese  with  it  when  served. 
If,  however,  you  want  it  in  true  Italian  fashion,  put 
in  a  cup  of  strained  tomato  juice  instead  of  the  milk, 
and  either  some  button  mushrooms  cut  in  slices  or  some 
of  the  dried  mushrooms  that  can  be  bought  at  any 
Italian  grocery  and  soaked  out  in  cold  water.  A  little 
grated  cheese  may  be  stirred  in,  but  it  should  be  passed 
as  well.  Lastly,  add  the  spaghetti.  If  you  have  any 
pieces  of  cold  ham.,  cut  fine  and  add  them.  They  give 
a  delicious  flavor. 

ASPARA-  Shall  it  be  canned  asparagus  tips  or  aspara- 
GUS  gus  on  toast  ?  Either  is  an  excellent  chafing- 

dish  dainty  that  is  improved  vastly  by  a  cup  of  thin 
cream  in  the  cooking.  Have  the  asparagus  heated,  with 
possibly  a  little  melted  butter  poured  over  the  stalks  or 
tips  if  you  like  it — and  who  doesn't?  Then  in  your 
blazer  put  the  aforesaid  cup  of  cream  and  season  it  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  a  slight  soupgon  of  chili  pepper. 
Have  ready  some  triangular  slices  of  toast,  and  when 
this  sauce  is  hot,  dip  each  slice  of  toast  in  it  quickly 
with  a  fork,  and  put  on  a  hot  plate.  Lay  on  the  toast 
some  of  the  asparagus,  and  when  all  the  plates  are  filled 
pour  over  each  some  of  the  hot  cream  sauce. 

130 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Variations    with    Vegetables 

ASPARA-  In  Pliny's  time,  when  asparagus  grew 
GUS  FROID  wild,  it  may  not  have  been  considered  as 
great  a  delicacy  as  now;  and  one  does  not  learn  of  the 
variations  of  serving  that  it  was  treated  to  then ;  but 
now,  in  the  high  places  where  one  is  miles  from  a 
little  neck  or  an  oyster,  this  is  a  substitute  that  may 
well  begin  a  dinner — it's  especially  inviting  after  a 
lone-tree  cocktail.  Have  some  boiled  asparagus  tips 
nicely  cooled  and  served  on  shaved  ice  with  a  dressing 
of  lemon  juice,  horseradish,  salt,  and  pepper;  and  don't 
forget  to  pass  the  Tabasco.  You'll  be  surprised  at  the 
appeal  this  tidbit  makes  to  you. 

CUCUM-  Don't  tell  me  that  you  never  fried  cucum- 
BERS  ^  bers;   if   you   haven't,   it's   quite   time   you 

SAUTE  learned.  Put  in  the  blazer  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  and  slice  your  cucumbers,  nicely  peeled,  into 
quarter-inch  slices;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  that  same  butter  a  delicate  brown. 
Serve  with  broiled  chicken,  or  any  game — even  with 
that  mock-venison  w^hich  I've  already  told  how  to  do  in 
the  chafing-dish.  It's  a  welcome  change  from  cucum- 
bers with  French  dressing,  and  not  at  all  indigestible, 
though  some  may  say  so. 


CHAPTER 

"  They  that  love  mirth. 

Let  them  heartily  drink  ; 
'Tis  the  only  receipt 

To  make  sorrow  sink.' 

— Ben  Jonson. 
Why  do  men  drink? 

To  quench  thirst?  To  drown  sor- 
row? 

Both  are  good  reasons;  but  there 
are  many  other  reasons  why,  for  cen- 
turies, drink  has  been  a  synonym  for 
good  cheer.  While  some  may  be 
drowning  their  woes  in  the  wine  cup, 
others  are  right  jubilantly  celebrat- 
ing their  good  fortune.  The  drink- 
ing horn  has  been  emptied  and  the 
wassail  bowl  has  flowed  right  merrily 
down  the  ages  since  St.  Paul  advised 
"  a  little  wine  for  the  stomach's 
sake." 

The  man  who  drinks  too  much  is 
not  more  intemperate  than  he  who 

133 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

drinks  too  little ;  the  truly  temperate  mariner  who  steers 
the  middle  course  Is  the  only  one  worthy  of  the  name; 
his  conduct  fits  the  word. 

What  mental  lubricator  can  equal  a  choice  drink? 
It  calls  forth  jest  and  song,  It  stimulates  eloquence  and 
awakens  wholesome  mirth. 

Then  ''  let  us  eat,  drink,  and  be  merry,  for  to-morrow 
we  die." 

A  painter  who  lacks  skill  In  mixing  his  colors  spoils 
many  a  good  canvas.  So  It  Is  with  the  concocter  of 
drinks.  Be  his  materials  never  so  numerous  and  pure, 
If  he  lacks  skill  as  a  compounder;  for  he  will  not  only 
mar  good  Ingredients,  but  disappoint  a  company.  To 
avert  so  sad  a  calamity  Is  the  mission  of  this  chapter, 
In  which  divers  delectable  drinks  are  given,  with  direc- 
tions for  their  mixing. 

''Drink   in   the   morning  staring — 
Then  all  day  be  sparing." 

ABSINTHE  Into  a  goblet  of  shaved  Ice  put  two  dashes 
COCKTAIL  of  maraschino,  one  dash  of  orange  bitters, 
and  one  pony  of  absinthe.     Stir  well,  strain,  and  serve. 

''  The  fish  lead  a  pleasant  life — they  drink  when  they 
like/' 

ALE  Three  pints  of  ale,  draught  or  bottled,  a 

F^IP  spoonful    of   sugar,    a   piece   of    mace,    six 

cloves,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.     Let  this  boll,  and 

134 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

then  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  and  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  in  a  little  cold  ale,  add  to  the  boiling  ale,  and 
pour  the  whole  swiftly  from  one  vessel  to  another  for  a 
few  minutes,  then  serve. 

''Ale  sellers  should  nae  be  tale  tellers/* 

ALE  One   quart    of    Burton    ale,    one    quart    of 

PUNCH  Niersteiner,  a  wineglassful  of  brandy,  a 
wineglassful  of  capillaire  syrup,  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
and  a  piece  of  the  peel ;  grate  a  bit  of  nutmeg  and  add 
a  piece  of  brown  toast;  mix  well  and  let  it  stand  cold 
for  two  hours  before  straining  and  serving. 

"  Good  ale  is  meat  and  drink  and  cloth.'* 

gj^  Heat  a  half-pint  of  ale  and  a  half-pint  of 

WALTER  sherry,  add  one  quart  of  boiling  milk, 
RALEIGH  sugar  to  taste,  and  some  grated  nutmeg. 
RECIPE  j|.  should  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  an 
POSSETT  hour,  and  just  before  serving  add  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  then  beat  well  and  serve  hot. 

''  If  you   brew  well,  you   may   drink  well/* 

LAMB'S  Heat  a  pint  of  good  ale,  add  sugar  and 
WOOL  nutmeg   to   taste,   then   lemon   peel   and   a 

pinch  of  cloves  and  ginger.  Put  In  a  bowl  with  three 
roasted  apples  sliced  and  three  pieces  of  toast.  Serve 
very  hot.     It's  a  prime  nightcap. 

135 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

^'  To    good   eating    belongs   good   drinking." 

SCOTCH  Mix  with  one  well-beaten  egg  two  table- 
HOT  spoonfuls  of  ale,  some  nutmeg,  and  one- 

PINT  fourth  pint  of  Scotch  w^hisky.     Stir  in  two 

pints  of  boiling-hot  ale  and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Pour 
from  one  pitcher  into  another  until  frothy,  and  serve 
at  once. 

''  Good  drink  drives  out  bad  thoughts.'* 

BROWN  Melt  one  pound  of  sugar  in  one  pint  of 
BETTY —  water;  add  while  boiling  a  pinch  of 
^^  pounded  cloves,  a  dash  of  cinnamon,  one- 

DRTNK         ^^^^  P^*"^  °^  brandy,  and  one  quart  of  good 
ale.     Add  a  little  ginger  and  nutmeg,  and 
serve  ice  cold  in  summer,  boiling  hot  in  winter. 

''Drink  wine  and  let  water  go  to  the  mill.'' — Italian. 

AMER-  Rub  the  peel  of  six  lemons  on  one  pound 
ICAN  of  loaf  sugar;  squeeze  their  juice  and  that 

PUNCH  q£  gj-j^  oranges  on  it,  carefully  removing  the 
seeds,  add  four  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  five  cloves,  and 
two  quarts  of  w^ater.  Skim  well,  fill  into  bottles,  and 
keep  for  the  punch.  Then  mix  one  and  one-half  pints 
of  green  tea,  a  pint  of  brandy,  a  quart  of  rum,  a  quart 
of  champagne,  and  a  cup  of  well-sw^eetened  chartreuse 
into  a  punch  bowl,  add  a  lump  of  ice,  three  oranges  and 

136 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

a  lemon  cut  in  slices.  Let  stand  two  hours,  after  stirring 
in  the  bottled  mixture,  stirring  repeatedly  that  it  may 
be  well  blended. 

"  Only  what  I  drink  is  mine/' — Polish. 

BRAIN  Squeeze  into  si  tumbler  the  juice  of  a  lime 

DUSTER  and  add  two  dashes  of  gum,  a  pony  of  ab- 
sinthe, two  dashes  of  vino  vermouth,  and  two  dashes 
of  sherry.     Fill  up  with  ice,  stir,  strain,  and  serve. 

''  Where   reason    rules,   appetite   obeys." 

CHAM-  This  is  a  ladylike  beverage,  indeed.  To 
PAGNE  make  it,  put  a  large  lump  of  sugar  in  a 
COBBLER  ^^ineglass  nearly  filled  with  shaved  ice,  and 
fill  the  intervals  with  champagne.  Stir  slowly,  adding 
a  little  vanilla  or  strawberry  ice  cream,  and  serve  with 
a  straw  and  a  spoon.  It  is  sure  to  make  a  hit  with  the 
"  younger  sister." 

"  Of  wine  and  love,  the  first  is  best.'' 

CHAT-  One  bottle  of  Catawba  wine,  one  and  a 
ARTIL-  quarter  bottles  rum,  the  same  quantity  of 
LERY  whisky,  one  and  a  half  pineapples,  and  suf- 

PUNCH  ficient  strawberries  to  flavor  and  color. 
Allow  liquid  to  stand  under  seal  over  night.  When 
ready  to  serve  add  three  quarts  of  champagne. 

137 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

''  Drink  nothing  without  seeing  it.'' 

CHAM-  Mix  one  bottle  of  champagne,  two  bottles 
PAGNE  of  soda,  a  glass  of  brandy,  a  glass  of  Cura- 
^^  gao,  some  slices  of  cucumber  peel,  and  the 

juice  of  a  lemon.  Moselle  or  Sauterne  may  be  made 
into  cups  the  same  way,  and  alluring  decoctions  they 
are.  Another  "  cup  "  is  made  in  this  fashion :  a  cordial 
glass  each  of  benedictine,  brandy,  and  maraschino  are 
put  in  a  quart  jug.  Filling  it  up  with  champagne 
makes  a  champagne  cup  that  is  not  to  be  sneezed  at. 
Rhine  wine,  cider,  or  claret  may  be  used  with  felicitous 
result. 

''  Drink  upon  salad  costs  the  doctor  a  ducat" 

CIDER  This  is  a  favorite  English  beverage.     Make 

BOWL  an  extract  of  a  spoonful  of  green  tea  in  a 

half-pint  of  boiling  water,  and  after  letting  it  stand  a 
quarter-hour,  put  in  a  punch  bowl  and  add  six  ounces 
of  lump  sugar,  a  bittle  of  cidar,  two  wineglasses  of 
brandy,  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  place  the  bowl 
on  ice  for  further  orders. 

''  He  who  likes  drinking  is  ever  talking  of  wine" 

CLARET  Into  a  punch  bowl  put  half  a  pony  each 
CUP  of   benedictine,   yellow   chartreuse,   maras- 

chino, and  Curasao,  the  juice  of  six  limes,  two  bottles 
of  claret,  one  bottle  of  Moselle,  one  bottle  of  Apol- 

138 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

linaris,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  little  sliced  orange  and 
pineapple,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  mint.  Stir  thoroughly 
and  add  some  pieces  of  Ice. 

"  Eat  and  drink   measurely  and  defy  the  mediciners" 

CLUB  Half  a  glassful  of  Ice,  two  dashes  of  gum, 

COCKTAIL  two-thirds  of  gin,  one-third  of  vino  ver- 
mouth, two  dashes  of  orange  bitters,  and  one  dash  of 
green   chartreuse.     Stir   well,   strain,   and   serve. 

"  Drink  the  wine  and  don't  inquire  of  the  vine." 

COFFEE  Break  an  egg  Into  a  glass  and  beat  It  well ; 
AND  add  a  spoonful  of  sugar  and  a  wineglassful 

RUM  Qf   j.yj^_     jy/[{^  ^j^jg  ^p  ^yell,   pour  Into   a 

cup  of  the  best  Mocha  coffee — hot — and  add  a  small 
piece  of  butter.     This  Is  a  famous  "  blue  chaser." 

''  Bacchus   loves   freedom." 

EARTH-  In  a  medium  wineglass  put  one-third  each 
QUAKE  of  benedlctlne,  brandy,  and  Curagao,  and 
CALMER      ^.}^j.gg  dashes  of  Angostura. 

''  Conviviality  reveals  secrets." 

EGG  NOGG  Beat  In  a  bowl  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with 
PUNCH  six  ounces  of  powdered  sugar;  add  gradu- 
ally one  pint  of  brandy,  one-fifth  of  a  pint  of  rum,  a 

139 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

pony  of  maraschino,  and  two  quarts  of  milk;  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  until  they  are  snowy,  and  sweeten 
w^ith  a  bit  of  vanilla  or  lemon  sugar.  Let  the  w^hltes 
float  on  top  of  the  punch  and  serve  cold. 

''  The  best  brewer  sometimes  makes  bad  beer** 

ENGLISH  Rub  the  rind  of  two  lemons  on  half  a 
PUNCH  pound  of  sugar  and  put  In  the  punch  bowl, 
squeezing  the  juice  over  It  with  a  quart  of  boiling 
water.  Stir  well;  add  three  gills  of  rum  and  half  a 
pint  of  brandy;  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top  and 
heat  before  sei-vlng. 

''  Esteemed  without  but  loved  within 
Is  London's  mellow  Old  Tom  gin'* 

GIN  Mix  one  pint  of  sugar  syrup,  a  glass  of 

SLING  brandy,   and   the  same  of   gin,   a  slice  of 

lemon,  and  a  pint  of  soda.     Serve  cold. 

"  He  that  sips  many  arts,  drinks  none." 

ENGLISH  Rub  the  peel  of  three  lemons  on  one  pound 
MILK  of  sugar  and  put  In  a  bowl;  squeeze  the 

PUNCH  juice  of  the  lemons  over,  and  grate  half  a 
nutmeg  and  add  with  a  bottle  of  rum.  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  let  stand  over  night,  then  add  one  quart 
each  of  boiling  water  and  milk.  Allow  the  mixture 
140 


• 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

to  stand  covered  two  hours.  Filter  through  a  flannel 
bag  until  the  punch  is  absolutely  clear,  and  serve  ice 
cold. 

"  The  beers  of  your  own  brewingj  and  you  must 
drink  it/* 

HOL-  Into   a  goblet  put  some  shaved   ice,  two 

LANDS  dashes  of  gum,  one  of  absinthe,  two  dashes 
COCKTAIL  orange  bitters,  and  a  little  Hollands. 
Strain    and  serve. 

"  When  Bacchus  pokes  the  fire,  Venus  sits  by  the  oven." 

SPICED  Here's  a  hot  drink  for  a  zero  night.  Have 

CLARET  half  a  dozen  lumps  of  sugar,  four  whole 
allspice,  two  whole  cloves,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon  in  a  saucer. 
Mix  well  and  put  in  the  bowl  and  pour  over  half  a 
pint  of  claret  and  let  it  boil  for  just  two  minutes,  stir- 
ring all  the  while.  Strain  into  hot  glasses,  and  over 
the  top  of  each  grate  a  little  nutmeg  before  serving. 

*'  The  devil  is  not  in  the  quality  of  wine,  but  in  the 
quantity/' 

DAN-  Into  a  cocktail  glass  squeeze  the  juice  of 

FORTH  quarter  of  an  orange,  add  a  wineglassful 
APPETIZER  QJ.  French  vermouth  and  fill  up  with  selt- 
zer. A  good  change  for  an  avant  diner  from  the  tra- 
ditional cocktail. 

141 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 


A    Dissertation    on    Drink 


"  He  earns  a  farthing  and  has  a  pennyworth  of  thirst.'* 

WASSAIL  This  is  a  famous  old  English  Christmastide 
recipe,  and  dates  back  to  the  time  of  good  Queen  Bess 
— and  earlier.  To  a  pint  of  ale  add  one-half  ounce 
of  grated  ginger,  one-half  ounce  of  grated  nutmeg,  a 
pinch  of  cinnamon,  and  one-half  pound  of  brown  sugar. 
Heat  and  stir,  but  do  not  boil.  Add  two  more  pints 
of  ale,  one-half  pint  of  sherry  or  Malaga,  the  zest  of 
a  lemon  rubbed  on  a  lump  of  sugar,  and,  finally,  six 
cored  and  roasted  apples.  In  serving  hot,  in  bowls, 
serve  a  piece  of  apple  to  each. 

*'  Gods!     What  wild  folly  from   the  goblet  flows! " 

— Homer. 

IMPERIAL  Peel  one  pineapple  and  four  oranges;  cut 
PUNCH  the  first  in  small  slices  and  separate  the 
oranges  into  pieces,  putting  all  in  a  punch  bowl.  Then 
boil  in  a  quart  of  water  two  sticks  of  cinnamon  and  a 
stick  of  vanilla  cut  in  small  pieces;  strain  the  water 
through  the  sieve  Into  the  bowl,  and  then  rub  the  rind 
of  a  lemon  on  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  lump  sugar, 
put  the  sugar  In  the  water,  and  squeeze  over  the  juice 
of  three  lemons.  After  It  cools,  place  on  Ice  and  add 
a  bottle  of  Rhine  wine,  a  quart  of  rum,  and,  just  be- 
fore serving,  a  bottle  of  champagne  and  half  a  bottle 
of  seltzer. 

142 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 


''A  big  head  has  a  big  ache/* 

MINT  Dampen  a  small  bunch  of  mint,  dust  with 

JULEP  powdered  sugar,  bruising  slightly,  and  pour 

over  a  little  boiling  water.  Allow  this  to  draw,  then 
strain  Into  tall  glasses  quite  filled  with  finely-shaved  ice. 
Dress  the  glass  with  sprigs  of  mint  and  pour  in  enough 
brandy  to  fill.  Do  not  stir,  but  set  in  the  ice  box  until 
thoroughly  cool,  and  serve  with  straws. 

"  He  is  an  ill  guest  that  never  drinks  to  his  host/' 

SHANDY  Mix  equal  parts  of  ginger  ale  and  Bass's 
GAFF  Pale  Ale.     A  temperate  libation  approved 

of  by  the  very  youthful  Londoners. 

''  Claret  for  boys,  port  for  men,  and  brandy  for  heroes." 

SHERRY  Into  a  large  glass  put  a  spoonful  of  sugar, 
COBBLER  a  dash  of  White  Rock,  a  wineglassful  of 
sherry,  and  a  dash  of  port.  Fill  up  with  fine  ice,  orna- 
ment with  fruits  in  season,  and  top  off  with  a  spoonful 
of  Ice  cream  of  desired  flavor.  Serve  with  a  straw 
and  spoon. 

''I  will  drink  life  to  the  lass/' — Tennyson, 

THE  ONLY  Put  in  a  tall  goblet  some  shaved  ice,  two 
ONE  dashes  of  gum,  half  a  pony  of  creme  de 

menthe,  a  pony  of  gin,  and  a  dash  of  orange  bitters. 

143 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

Squeeze  into  it  the  juice  of  a  lemon-peel,  stir  well  and 
serve. 

''  The  three-hooped  pot  shall  have  ten  hoops,  and  /• 
will  make  it  felony  to  drink  small  beerj" — Shakespeare, 

STOUT  Boil  a  quart  of  stout  with  a  quarter-pound 
PUNCH  of  lump  sugar  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon; 
beat  four  eggs  to  a  foam  and  mix  with  a  wineglassful  of 
rum ;  take  the  stout  from  the  fire  and  add,  while  contin- 
ually stirring,  to  the  egg  mixture. 
APPETI-  Two  lumps  of  ice,  one-third  vino  vermouth 
ZER  OF  (Italian),  one-third  of  Fernet  branca,  and 
ANGELO  2  gjj^g  Qf  orange.  This  is  served  at  the 
North  End  cafe  of  Angelo,  in  Boston,  and  is  the  favor- 
ite Italian  aperitif. 

'* 'Twill  make  the  widow's  heart  to  sing. 

Though  the  tear  be  in  her  eye."         „ 

— Burns, 

AN  IM-  Into  a  goblet  put  the  juice  of  a  lime,  a  lit- 
MORTAL  tie  seltzer,  and  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  half 
SOUR  pf  apple-jack,  half  of  peach  brandy,   and 

the  white  of  an  egg.     Fill  up  with  ice,  strain  and  serve. 

" '  In  vino  Veritas '  is  an  argument  for  drinking  only 
when  you  suppose  all  men  to  he  liars." — Dr.  Johnson. 

WEEPER'S  To  a  goblet  two-thirds  full  of  fine  ice  add 
JOY  three  dashes  of  gum,  half  a  pony  of  ab- 

144 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

sinthe,  half  a  pony  of  vino  vermouth,  half  a  pony  of 
kummel,  and  one  dash  of  Curagao.  Stir  and  strain 
before  serving. 

''Never  lend  a  man  money  after  youve  been  drink- 
ing; never  try  to  borrow  from  one  before  he's  had  a 
drink'* 

WHISKY  Into  half  a  glassful  of  shaved  ice  squeeze 
COCKTAIL  a  little  lemon  peel,  to  which  add  three 
dashes  of  gum,  two  dashes  of  bitters,  one  dash  of  ab- 
sinthe, and  a  small  glass  of  whisky.  For  whisky  sling, 
put  into  a  goblet  containing  a  little  fine  ice,  two  dashes 
of  gum  and  a  wineglassful  of  good  whisky.  Stir  and 
strain. 

''  Come,  gentlemen,  drink  down  all  un kindness/* 

— Shakespeare, 

VELVET  Half  a  bottle  of  champagne,  half  a  bottle 
of  White  Rock,  and  two  ponies  of  brandy.  Mix  in  a 
jug,  and  add  a  lump  of  ice. 

"  Then  it's  always  fair  weather 
When  good  fellows  get  together/* 

ROYAL  Mix  champagne  and  brandy,  a  quart  of 
SHANDY  the  former  to  a  pint  of  the  latter.  An- 
GAFF  other  recipe  calls  for  a  third  the  amount 

of  brandy,  and  lest  it  be  too  strong  one  should  experi- 
ment until  he  has  it  exactly  to  his  own  taste. 

145 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

''  There  is  a  devil  in  every  berry  of  the  grape." 

— The   Koran. 

LORD  Peel  one  lemon  fine;  add  some  white  lump 

SALTOUN'S sugar  and  pour  over  it  a  glass  of  sherry. 
CLARET       Then   add  a  bottle  of  claret — even  plain 

CUP  ■  J-        •  'U  A 

vin  ordinaire  will  answer — and  sugar  to 
taste;  also  a  bottle  of  soda  water  and  nutmeg,  If  liked. 
Strain  and  ice  well.  If  preferred  mulled,  strain,  heat, 
and  serve  piping  hot. 

''Sweet  is   old  wine   in  bottles,  ale   in   barrels.'' 

— Byron. 

MISSISSIPPI  One  glass  of  brandy,  half  glass  Jamaica 
PUNCH  rum,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  whisky,  quar- 
ter of  a  lemon,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  water  to  taste.  Mix  well  and  ice  with  shaved  ice. 
For  '*  linked  sweetness  long  drawn  out,"  use  a  straw 
in  the  tall  glass  in  which  it  is  served. 

''  Wine  and  youth  are  fire  upon  fire.'* 

A  New  Yorker,  Tom  Lynch  by  name,  and  said  to 
be  "  one  of  the  best,"  has  a  few  words  to  say  in  regard 
to  drinks  in  general  and  cocktails  in  particular.  "  The 
only  really  decent  drinks,"  he  says  convincingly,  "  can 
be  counted  on  the  fingers  of  one  hand.  A  good  im- 
ported Scotch  with  the  peat-smoke  perfume,  Medford 
rum — and  what  a  pity  it's  no  longer  made! — a  dry, 
very  dry,  Martini  cocktail,  a  Gordon  gin  rickey,  and 

146 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

the  best  Irish  whisky — those  are  the  best  drinks  that  a 
man  can  take  in  this  country,  or  the  old  country  either. 
And,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  it's  next  to  impossible  to  get 
a  cocktail  that  is  a  cocktail  in  London  or  anywhere 
else  on  the  other  side. 

**  Bottled  cocktails?  They  are  a  snare  and  a  delu- 
sion. Perfect  cocktails  are  only  made  with  scrupulous 
care  in  measuring  the  ingredients.  A  good  many  men 
think  after  a  time  that  they  can  measure  drinks  with 
their  eye;  but  that  is  what  does  the  mischief,  for  no 
man  can  do  that  and  have  his  cocktails  absolutely  uni- 
form. In  mixing  cocktails  I  always  use  a  graduated 
measuring  glass  which  I  invented  myself,  and  in  doing 
that  I  have  earned  the  reputation  of  always  giving  a 
man  the  same  cocktail  he  had  yesterday,  or  last  week, 
or  a  year  ago.  The  most  popular  drink  to-day  in  New 
York  is  the  *  H.  P.  W.'  cocktail,  which  was  intro- 
duced by  Harry  Payne  Whitney  at  the  Ardsley  Club, 
and  later  at  his  Adirondack  camp;  and  the  good  fel- 
lows who  were  initiated  into  its  seductiveness  agreed 
then  and  there  that  it  should  be  christened  after  their 
popular  host,  so  here  we  have  it :  " 

''  There's  a  drink  '  on  the  beam  *  for  you,  lady!* 

—Pratt, 

THE  "H.  P.  Mix  carefully  in  a  measuring  glass  one 
W."'  COCK-  part  of  Italian  vermouth  and  one  part  of 
TAIL  jj.y  Gordon  gin.   Add  the  peel  of  an  orange 

and  frappe. 

147 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
A    Dissertation    on    Drinks 

"  There  is  a  new  cocktail  served  in  New  York  at 
Sherry's  and  Martin's  and  the  Cafe  des  Ambassadeurs 
which  is  appropriately  known  as  '  the  Perfect  Cocktail.' 
This  is  how  it  is  mixed :  " 

PERFECT      Mix  one  part  Italian  vermouth,  one  part    • 
COCKTAIL  French   vermouth,   and   one   part   Gordon 
gin.     Add  a  slice  of  orange,  and  frappe.     You  will 
soon  see  wherein  lies  its  perfection. 


148 


Seffift 


CHAPTER    XV 

The  cost  of  wines  is  an  important 
factor  in  entertaining.  Many  a  man 
is  forced  to  entertain  friends  of  ex- 
pensive tastes  on  the  proverbial 
"  champagne  taste  and  beer  income  " 
plan.  A  person  who  wishes  for  any 
reason  to  economize  may  substitute, 
in  almost  every  case,  California  or 
other  American  wines,  w^hich  cost 
far  less  than  imported.  In  fact,  I 
have  known  a  man  who  called  him- 
self a  connoisseur  of  wines  to  be  de- 
ceived by  Cook's  Imperial  Extra  Dry 
to  such  an  extent  that  he  acknowl- 
edged it  to  be  quite  as  good  as 
Mumm's  when  told  the  difference. 

Prices  are  given  here  by  the  case 

of  one  dozen  bottles,  as  in  ordering 

wines  for  home  use  most  people  buy 

in  dozen  lots.   The  price  per  bottle 

149 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

What    to    Pay    for    Wines 

at  a  restaurant  will  not  vary  greatly  from  the  list 
prices,  which  are  taken  from  one  of  the  largest  im- 
porting houses  in  America. 

Champagnes. 

DOZEN 

Pommery    sec    (dry) $31-50 

London    Pommery,    1893 48.00 

Vin    Nature,   brut 31-50 

Veuve   Cliquot  dry,   Gold  Label 31-50 

London    Special,    ditto 35-oo 

Heidsieck   Dry  Monopole   Extra 30.00 

Pol   Roger   Brut   Special 35-oo 

Baron  R  de  Luze  Dry  Comet 25.00 

Perrier  Jouet  dry  creaming 30.00 

Runiart  P.  et  Fils 32-10 

Piper  Heidsieck,  extra  brut 36.00 

G.  H.   Mumm 32.00 

American    Bee    Hive    dry 15.00 

Cook's    Imperial    extra    dry 13-00 

Great   Western   extra    dry 12.00 

Burgundies. 

Pommard    red    burgundy    (sparkling) $24.00 

Leiden's    medium    Hock 21.00 

Chauvenet's    White    Cap 27.00 

Ditto    Red    Cap 27.00 

Ditto   White    Cap 27.00 

Bee    Hive    Burgundy 5.00 

Sherries. 

Amontillado,    very    pale    and    dry $30.00 

Centennial    Medal 25.00 

Oloroso,  many  years  in  wood i7-50 

Generoso,    pale    10.00 

Manzanilla   Pasada    14.00 

150 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 


What    to    Pay    for    Wines 

DOZEN 

Picarillo   $12.00 

Bee    Hive    4.50 

A  De  Luze  et  Fils  Clarets. 

Chateau  Margaux,   1877 $42.00 

Chateau  Lafite,    1898 17.00 

Chateau  Larose   15.00 

Chateau  Pavell    9.50 

S.  S.  P.  Medoc  in  wood 5.50 

St.   Julien    4.50 

St.  Estephe   5.00 

Bee  Hive  Claret 5.00 

Sunset  Claret   4.00 

Sauternes. 

Chateau   Yquem    $26.00 

Chateau    Latour   Blanche 19.00 

Haute   Sauterne,    1878 i5-50 

Barsac    8.00 

Bee    Hive    500 

Sunset  Sauterne    4.25 

Burgundies. 

Clos  de  Vougeot,   1874 $47.00 

Chambertin,    1885 27.00 

Chablis    (white)    1893 10.00 

White  Cap  ultra  sec  sparkling 27.00 

Red    Cap    sparkling 27.00 

Pink  Cap  Oeil  de  Perdrix  sparkling 27.00 

Bouchard's  Chambertin    26.50 

Chablis,  2  doz.  pints 11.50 

Leiden's  Hoch. 

Johannisberger   Cabinet  yellow   seal $24.00 

Rudesheimer    14.00 

Niersteiner     10.00 

Bodenheimer 8.0Q 

151 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

What    to    Pay    for    Wines 


DOZEN 

Sparkling  Hoch $21.00 

Bee   Hive   Hoch 5.00 

Moselle. 

Berncasteler  Doktor    $17.00 

Zeltinger    9,00 

Brauneberger    7,75 

Sparkling  Moselle    21.00 

Italian. 
ChiantI    $  6.50 

Port  Wines. 

Old  London  Dock,  27  years  in  wood $25.00 

Vintage    1887    30.00 

"Old   White"   Port 12.50 

Tarragona    7.50 

California    4.50 

Madeiras. 

Lord  Nelson   $60.00 

Duke    of   Wellington 40.00 

Old  South  Side 1 5.00 

Woodhouse   Marsala    8.00 

Tokays   (Hungarian). 

Tokayer  Imperial,    1866 $30.00 

Tokayer  Cabinet,   1868 20.00 

Tokayer  Ausbruch   dry 15.00 

Riesling  Ausbruch,   American 12.00 

Bee  Hive   4.50 

In  cordials  there  is  great  variety.  These  after-din- 
ner liqueurs  that  warm  our  hearts,  even  to  our  enemies, 
come  from  many  lands,  and  are  made  from  various 
fruits  of  the  earth. 

152 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

What    to    Pay    for    Wines 

Of  all  liqueurs,  brandy  or  eau  de  vie  is  the  founda- 
tion, various  ingredients  coloring  and  flavoring  it  to 
suit  the  taste.  Some  of  the  additions  have  the  merit 
of  being  great  aids  to  the  digestion,  as  w^ll  as  being 
pleasant  to  the  palate.  Especially  is  this  true  of  creme 
de  menthe,  which  is  King  of  the  Mint  family.     Dr. 

S ,  a  young  Professor  of  Pathology  in  the  Harvard 

Medical  School,  has  a  particular  fondness  for  this  cor- 
dial, which  several  years  of  university  life  in  Europe 
has  only  served  to  strengthen.  One  day,  dropping  into 
Martin's  in  New  York  for  dinner,  he  ordered  the  usual 
liqueur  after  his  coffee.  The  doctor  is  an  absent- 
minded  man,  and  was  deep  in  a  reverie  when  the 
waiter  interrupted: 

*'  Plain  or  f rappee,  sir?  " 

"  Let  me  think,"  mused  the  doctor,  resting  his  chin 
in  his  hand  and  gazing  reflectively  into  space. 

*'  Frappee  means  with  ice,  sir,"  volunteered  the 
waiter  kindly,  thinking  this  silence  only  the  result  of 
unfamiliarity  with  the  French  language.  He  had  it 
frappeed. 

Benedictine  is  equally  good  for  digestion,  and  Mar- 
aschino is  not  to  be  despised.  Do  you  know,  by  the 
way,  that  the  latter  is  made  from  cherries  and  their 
pits?  The  secrets  of  the  cloisters  of  the  Trappist, 
Benedictine,  and  Carthusian  monasteries  would  make 
interesting  reading  on  the  question  of  liqueurs,  the 
monks  possessing  secrets  that  have  been  handed  down 
for  centuries. 

153 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

What    to    Pay    for    Wines 

Kirchenwasser  is  made  from  the  wild  black  cherry 
of  the  Black  Forest.  The  seductive  "  Forbidden 
Fruit "  is  nothing  more  than  grape-fruit  cordial,  while 
Curasao  gains  its  taste  from  orange  peel.  From  nearly 
every  corner  of  the  globe  are  gathered  flavorings  for 
cordials.  While  the  formulas  are  unnecessary  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  diner-out,  he  must  be  familiar  with 
the  tastes  and  know  just  which  is  best  to  follow  a  cer- 
tain sort  of  dinner.  The  question  of  color  is  an  im- 
portant one,  and  it  is  possible  even  to  follow  the  color 
scheme  of  a  dinner  with  the  various  roses,  violets, 
greens,  yellows,  and  other  shades  of  liqueurs. 

To  the  richness  and  smoothness  and  other  engaging 
qualities  of  the  cordial,  cream  contributes  much.  It 
should  be  rich  and  heavy,  and  the  glass  should  be  filled 
to  within  an  eighth  of  an  inch,  then  topped  off  with 
cream.  Try  this  with  eau  de  vie  de  Dantzic,  creme  de 
cacao,  or  even  w^Ith  Benedictine.  It  has  an  elusive 
charm  that  will  make  you  Insist  upon  having  one,  per- 
haps even  two  to  follow. 

SIrop  de  Grenadine  Is  made  from  the  juice  of  the 
pomegranate,  and  Is  used  notably  In  the  concoction  of 
the  "  Ward  Eight  "  of  Boston's  Winter  Palace  Hotel, 
perhaps  better  know^n  locally  as  "  Frank  Locke's." 

Old  Medford  Rum  will  soon  be  but  a  memory,  for 
the  manufacture  of  this  famous  old  throat-tickler  has 
ceased  after  many  generations,  and  the  price  Is  cor- 
respondingly high,  that  of  1858  being  $3.00  the  bottle, 
and   the    1875    bottling  $1.40.     Jamaica  rum   is  sub- 

154 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

What    to    Pay    for    Wines 

stituted  by  many,  and  comes  at  $1.50  the  quart  for  the 
best  grade. 

Gins  run  from  70c.  the  bottle  up  to  $1.50  for  Levert 
&  Wlldeman's  best,  while  Booth's  Old  Tom  gin  brings 
here  about  70c.  also.  Brook's  London  Cordial  gin  is 
a  good  brand  at  $1.25  the  bottle. 

Brandies  should  be  bought  with  care,  and  "  the 
best's  none  too  good."  Columbian  1800  at  $7.00  the 
bottle  may  be  a  trifle  high  for  some  purses — but  oh  I 
to  see  it's  wonderful  flame  dancing  over  your  coffee  is 
worth  sacrificing  something  else  in  favor  of  this.  How- 
ever, it  may  be  bought  from  the  old  California  at  $1.00 
the  bottle  all  the  way  up  the  scale,  with  De  Luze's 
Blue  Seal  at  $3.75  a  most  satisfactory  medium  to 
strike  between  the  two. 

Whiskies?  I  won't  presume  to  specify.  Every  man 
may  have  his  own  particular  brand,  but  I'll  suggest, 
for  an  imported  Scotch,  the  Machrinish  Niblick  brand, 
bottled  in  Glasgow.  It's  quite  the  smoothest  Scotch 
I  ever  tasted,  and  if  "  Mountain  Dew  "  is  anything 
like  that,  I'd  willingly  slumber  amid  the  Scottish  hea- 
ther of  a  summer's  night.  The  Honourable  Artillery 
Company  of  London  ordered  White  Horse  in  large 
quantities  on  their  homeward  voyage — not  because  one 
of  their  number  was  an  owner  in  the  company,  but 
because  they  liked  it  best.  Black  &  White  was  a  close 
second,  though,  and  some  affirmed  that  Dewar's  was 
the  "  rippingest  Scotch  ever  poured." 

For  Ryes,  the  best  old  Blue  Grass  may  be  bought  at 

155 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

What    to    Pay    for    Wines 

$2.00  the  bottle,  with  Bourbon  and  Gold  Seal  close 
rivals. 

When  it  comes  to  ales  and  beers,  most  men  have 
their  tastes  as  w^ell  developed  as  in  the  w^hiskies,  and 
vv^ill  choose  their  favorite  brand.  The  imported  Ger- 
man beers  are  quite  worth  while,  but  it's  hard  to  beat 
our  own  Anheuser  Busch  and  "  the  beer  that  made 
Milwaukee  famous  " — Schlitz. 


"To  drink  and  love,"  said  Daphnis,  "is  my  plan; 
For  life  is  short  and  I  am  but  a  man." 

THE  The    judging    of    wines    is    an    important 

JUDGE'S  part  of  every  bachelor's  education.  To 
STAND  judge  properly  is  as  fine  an  art  as  painting 
a  picture  or  composing  a  poem.  The  connoisseur  des 
vins  should  be  able  at  once  to  detect  the  faults  of  a 
wine.  Wine  is  like  women  and  song — it  has  its  faults, 
and  is  occasionally  off  the  key.  That's  why  the  three 
go  together. 

When  a  man  says  he  is  an  expert  judge  of  wines, 
look  out  for  him.  The  chances  are  that  the  only  brands 
he  ever  tasted  are  Mumm's  and  Grandma's  Grape 
Juice,  claret  lemonade,  Near-Stein-mit-Sizzler,  and 
Hock,  and  that  he  wouldn't  know  sherry  from  Cheret. 

Nine  points  for  a  bachelor  to  remember  in  judging 
the  juice  of  the  vine  are: 

(i)  The  color.  (Blue  at  the  beginning,  roseate  at 
the  ending,  and  yellow  in  the  morning.) 

156 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

What    to    Pay    for    Wines 

(2)  The  clearness.  (''The  clearness  of  the  bub- 
bling wine  reflected  in  her  eye.") 

(3)  The  bouquet.  (Forget-me-nots,  Babies' 
Breath,  and  Lady-Slippers.) 

(4)  The  alcoholic  strength.  (It's  strong  enough 
to  carry  you  home. ) 

(5)  The  body.  {Gin  a  body  meet  a  body,  comin' 
thro'  the  Rye.) 

(6)  The  quality  of  flavor.  (The  best  wines  taste 
of  the  Mint.) 

(7)  The  harmony  of  the  different  constituents. 
|(Ask  the  United  States  Senate.) 

(8)  In  sparkling  wines j  vivacity.  (All  does  not 
glitter  that  sparkles.) 

(9)  The  endurance  of  foam.  ("  When  the  foam  is 
on  the  schooner,  Molly  dear.") 

In  France,  men  are  frequently  educated  as  wine 
tasters.  In  America,  this  profession  is  overcrowded. 
The  technicality  of  taste  must  not  be  overlooked.  The 
room  should  be  of  a  temperature  not  over  sixty  degrees 
Fahrenheit,  with  plenty  of  diffused  light.  The  tem- 
perature at  which  wines  are  tasted  has  a  great  deal  to 
do  with  bringing  out  their  best  qualities.  Red  wines, 
as  Burgundies  or  clarets,  taste  best  at  a  temperature 
of  sixty  to  sixty-five  degrees,  but  white,  still  wines,  such 
as  Sauternes  and  Chablis,  are  best  at  fifty  to  fifty-five 
degrees;  sparkling  wines  from  forty  to  forty-five  de- 
grees; and  dessert  whines  at  from  sixty-five  to  seventy 
degrees.     Too    often    champagne    is    drunk    ice-cold. 

157 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

What    to    Pay    for    Wines 

Drinking  is  one  thing  and  judging  is  another,  and  the 
bouquet  and  other  qualities  of  champagne  are  never 
brought  out  so  well  at  a  very  low  temperature.  Never 
ice  claret,  or  serve  warm,  white  wines. 

Proper  decanting  and  serving  of  wines  are  the  most 
important  functions  of  a  host.  It  should  be  his  pride 
that  every  wine  is  served  in  the  best  possible  condition. 
Every  bottle  should  be  "  candle  bright  " — which  means 
that  a  glass  of  wine  held  up  against  a  candle  in  a  dark 
place  should  be  perfectly  brilliant. 

In  removing  a  cork  from  a  bottle,  use  a  "  reverse 
corkscrew  "  and  extract  the  cork  without  the  slightest 
movement  or  shake  to  the  bottle. 

While  drawing  it  off  in  the  decanter,  closely  watch 
the  condition  of  the  wine  in  the  bottle,  and  stop  pour- 
ing as  soon  as  the  "  cloud,"  or  deposit,  approaches  the 
neck.  This  rule  applies  to  Burgundies,  ports,  and 
clarets,  which  frequently  show  crusts  or  deposits  in  the 
bottle. 

Still  hocks  and  m.oselles  are  generally  served  without 
decanting.  Colored  glasses  are  used  for  these  white 
wines  for  the  reason  that  the  deposits  they  throw  down 
in  each  bottle  are  generally  of  such  light  specific  gravity 
that  it  is  impossible  to  decant  them  bright — and  colored 
glasses  hide  these  defects. 

It  is  no  longer  considered  in  good  taste  to  fill  a 
champagne  glass  to  the  brim.  Leave  about  a  quarter- 
inch  free.  Refill  a  half-emptied  glass  so  as  not  to  lose 
the  sparkle,  but  never  overdo  the  filling-up. 

158 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

What    to    Pay    for    Wines 

Englishmen  sometimes  decant  old  vintage  cham- 
pagnes— but  they  retain  very  little  effervescence. 

A  Londoner  volunteers  the  information  that  "  cham- 
pagne w^hen  first  introduced  into  Great  Britain  was  as 
a  substitute  for  brandy-and-soda;  hence  it  v^as  wanted 
dry.  In  fact,  the  demands  of  the  English  palate  may 
be  said  to  be  responsible  for  the  dry  champagne." 

"  Champagne  dinner — 
All  take  warning; 
Cow  und  Seltzer 
In  the  morning." 

MORE  Syphon  bottles  are  as  difficult  to  handle  as 

WISE  women.     You   never   know   when   they're 

COUNSEL  going  to  change  their  tactics.  An  inno- 
cent-looking syphon  has  been  known  to  explode  at  a 
sudden  change  in  temperature. 

Syphons  are  generally  charged  at  a  pressure  of  from 
130  to  150  pounds  to  the  square  inch.  That  means 
that  if  a  bottle  so  charged  is  allowed  to  slip  from  your 
hands,  if  only  for  a  few  feet,  the  jar  is  liable  to  cause  a 
dangerous  explosion. 

Never  grasp  a  cold  syphon  with  the  hand,  as  the 
sudden  change  of  temperature  thus  produced  Is  even 
more  liable  to  cause  an  explosion  than  a  sudden  jar. 

Instead  of  syphons,  many  bachelors  use  various  car- 
bonated table  waters  or  bottled  spring  waters  for  use 
in  mixing  fizzes,  high  balls,  and  the  like.  The  benefit 
to  one's  health  derived  from  the  use  of  such  pure  waters 

159 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 


What    to    Pay    for    Wines 


as  White  Rock,  Poland,  Apollinarls,  and  Londonderry 
LIthia  is  being  realized  more  and  more.  It  is  a  well- 
known  fact  that  such  waters,  used  with  white  wines  and 
champagnes,  enhance  the  bouquet,  the  delicate  flavors, 
and  prevent  the  disagreeable  effects  of  over-indulgence. 


i6o 


CHAPTER    XVI 

Good  liquor,  I  stoutly  maintain,  gives 
genius  a  better  discerning." — GoLDsailTH. 

Almost  every  bachelor  Is  capable  of 
ordering  a  dream  of  a  dinner — but 
how  many  are  connoisseurs  of  wines 
to  the  extent  of  being  able  at  once  to 
select  the  correct  variety,  vintage, 
and  "bouquet,"  to  accompany  it? 

The  highest  authorities  differ  upon 
the  specification  of  any  regular  rou- 
tine of  wines  for  proper  service  at  a 
dinner  or  other  function.  But  It 
behooves  every  man  who  entertains 
much  to  familiarize  himself  with  the 
various  wines  and  their  sequence  by 
courses.  Many  a  good  dinner  is 
spoiled  by  the  ordering  of  Inferior 
wine  or  the  departure  from  the  pre- 
scribed rules  for  serving. 

One  sees  to-day,  particularly  in 
America,  service  of  champagne  alone 

i6i 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

during  a  dinner.  The  nouveau  rich-e  from  the  mining 
camp  or  the  oil  districts  often  blows  into  town  with 
the  one  idea  of  spending  money,  and  spending  it  on 
champagne.  Whether  it  is  sweet  or  dry  does  not 
particularly  matter  to  him,  so  long  as  it  is  cham- 
pagne. 

Indeed,  in  England  and  in  some  places  on  the  Conti- 
nent one  often  sees  champagne  alone  served  at  a  dinner, 
but  it  is  better  on  general  principles  to  carefully  select 
at  least  one  other  wine  to  precede  the  champagne — in- 
deed, two  wines  would  be  better. 

"  As  a  man  drinks,  so  he  is,"  runs  an  old  proverb. 
A  discriminating  taste  in  wines  is  easily  acquired,  and 
custom  has  laid  down  a  few  rules  that  are  easily  mas- 
tered in  practice.  Strictly  correct  service  is  that  which 
offers  with  each  course  a  wine  which  will  harmonize 
in  flavor  and  strength,  leading  the  palate  gently  from 
course  to  course,  and  bringing  out  agreeably  the  value 
of  each  succeeding  wine. 

'^  Thirst  makes  wine  out  of  water/* 
*'  Run  and  read:  " 

APERITIF  The  cocktail  is  the  national  aperitif  of 
America — Manhattan  or  Martini  being  most  in  favor. 
In  England  one  does  not  usually  consider  this  com- 
mencement necessary,  but  on  the  Continent  old  Ma- 
deira, very  dry  sherry,  vermouth,  or  Fernet  are  offered 
as  an  "  avant  diner." 

162 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

AUX  Light  white  wines,  as  Rhine  and  Moselle, 

HUITRES  such  as  Niersteiner,  Hocheimer,  Rudes- 
So  if  Q^^^*"^^^'  Bordeaux  wn'nes  such  as  Sauternes, 
Haut  Sauternes,  Barsac,  Graves,  etc.,  and 
white  Burgundy  or  Chablis,  are  en  regie. 
POTAGES  Sherry  is  the  favored  wine  with  soup  the 
world  over.  Madeira  is  equally  correct,  although  not 
so  universally  used.  Of  sherry,  Amontillado  is  the 
most  popular  brand — the  rarest  wine  of  Sunny  Spain. 
AUX  White  wines  still — but  of  the  heavier  vari- 

POISSONS  ety,  are  served  w^ith  soup  at  large  affairs, 
but  at  small  dinners  it  is  quite  correct  to  keep  the  sherry, 
or  even  the  wine  that  was  served  with  the  oysters. 
Johannisberger  Cabinet,  Steinberger  Cabinet,  etc.,  are 
favorite  heavy  white  wines,  but  there  are  half  a  score 
of  other  varieties  quite  as  good. 

ENTREE  Claret,  such  as  S.t.  Julien  or  Medoc,  Chi- 
Oy  anti,  or  one  of  the  minor  Chateau  brands, 

REMOVES  ag  Chateau  Lafitte,  are  the  proper  accom- 
paniment to  the  entree  course. 

GAME  With  the  game.  Burgundy   (red)   such  as 

Pommard,  Chambertin,  or  Barbera  Spumante  or  Bra- 
chetto  Spumanti,  should  be  served. 
DESSERT  While  here  it  is  scarcely  customary  to  serv^e 
wines  with  dessert,  other  than  champagne,  at  a  very 
formal  dinner  one  may  order  old  red  wines,  such  as 
Chateau  Larose  1874,  Port,  still  white  wines  such  as 
Chateau    Yquem,    Italian    wines    such    as    Lachrima 

163 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

Chrlsti,   Spanish  wines  such  as  Malaga,  Swiss  cham- 
pagne, or  the  old  wines  of  any  country  preferred. 
CAFE  With    the    coffee    come    the    liqueurs,    in 

which  there  is  as  wide  a  range  as  in  biscuits.  Char- 
treuse, Benedictine,  Curagao,  cremes  of  various  flavors, 
brandies,  *'  Forbidden  Fruit,"  Amer  Pigon,  and  two 
score  more  may  be  chosen  from  at  discretion.  •In 
France,  Amer  Pigon  or  plain  cognac  burned  on  sugar 
are  most  commonly  used — ^when,  of  course,  absinthe 
is  not  substituted. 

In  smart  houses  the  custom  of  serving  liqueurs  with 
coffee  in  the  drawing-room  after  dinner  is  almost  inva- 
riable, but  in  small  establishments  the  coffee  is  often 
served  at  table  w^ith  the  cognac  or  liqueurs.  Frequently 
brandy  is  served  alone,  and  is  passed  on  a  silver  tray 
in  a  special  decanter  with  silver  top  and  a  silver  match- 
box lying  beside  it. 

For  occasions  other  than  dinner,  the  serving  of  wine 
is  entirely  a  matter  of  taste.  With  little  suppers  where 
there  are  such  dishes  as  terrapin,  a  very  fine  quality  of 
Madeira  is  delectable,  as  it  is  with  any  rich  dish  served 
in  this  fashion.  The  finest  Hungarian  Tokay  served 
with  sweet  biscuit  is  the  correct  wine  to  serve  after  an 
evening  of  cards,  where  it  is  not  desirable  to  serve  any- 
thing more  substantial. 

It  is  a  fad  w^ith  some  people  to  pour  old  wines  di- 
rectly from  the  bottle,  that  the  guests  may  appreciate 
what  they  are  drinking.  This  is  not  advisable,  as 
wines  old  in  bottle  always  form  a  great  deal  of  de- 

164 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

posit,  and  this  when  shaken  injures  both  taste  and  ap- 
pearance of  wines.  If  a  host's  wine  will  not  stand  de- 
canting, then  he  would  better  not  serve  it. 

When  claret  is  the  one  wine  at  dinner,  it  is  served 
with  the  course  after  the  fish,  whatever  it  may  be. 
Claret  is  too  acid  a  wine  to  go  well  w^ith  sea-food  of 
any  description. 

Neither  claret  nor  Burgundy  contains  sufficient  alco- 
hol to  keep  its  flavor  more  than  twenty-four  hours 
after  decanting. 

GLASSES  Fancy  runs  riot  in  the  selection  of  wine- 
glasses. From  the  plain  crystal  to  the  fanciful  Vene- 
tian or  Austrian  glasses,  with  their  wondrous  coloring 
and  shapes  that  an  orchid  might  envy,  there  is  a  wide 
choice.  But  unless  a  bachelor  has  a  mint  of  money, 
he  had  best  eschew  colored  and  fanciful  glasses  and 
hold  to  the  thin,  clear  glass,  or  perhaps  finely-cut  glass, 
as  plain  as  possible.  He  should  have  for  water,  mint 
juleps,  and  the  like,  a  goblet  of  regulation  size.  A 
punch  glass  holding  two  to  the  pint  comes  next  in 
grade,  and  then  a  glass  holding  three  to  the  pint  for 
hot  whiskies,  sours,  etc.  The  saucer-shaped  champagne 
glass  is  the  most  artistic,  although  the  hollow  stem  is 
equally  popular — possibly  more  so.  Cocktail  glasses, 
special  sherry  glasses,  and  glasses  for  clarets  and  sau- 
ternes  with  green  or  red  bowls  as  fancy  dictates  are 
necessary  to  the  menage,  and  the  list  ends  with  glasses 
for  pousse  cafes  and  cordials,  "  pony "  glasses  for 
brandy,  beer  goblets — unless  he  elects  to  use  the  steins 

165 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

of  his  college  days — and  lemonade  glasses  for  those 
mixed  "  ladies'  delights,"  etc. 

The  bachelor  who  has  a  menage  will  have  his  side- 
board well  stocked  with  the  necessary  decanters,  cor- 
dial sets,  etc.,  but  for  the  impecunious  bachelor  or  he 
who  lives  in  his  studio  nothing  more  handy  was  ever 
invented  than  the  "  Bachelor's  Cabinet,"  with  its  sft- 
companiment  of  decanters,  mixing  glasses,  tiny  ice-box, 
and  all  the  requisites  for  a  convivial  evening  at  home. 

Even  when  one  is  reduced  to  standing  his  beer  bot- 
tles outside  on  the  window  ledge  to  cool  and  has  to 
dust  furtively  the  steins  he  has  taken  from  their  hooks, 
he  need  not  deplore  the  lack  of  more  expensive  bever- 
ages or  the  absence  of  cut  glass  and  champagne.  It's 
not  so  much  what  one  drinks  as  with  whom  and  where 
he  drinks  it. 

"  You  look  at  what  I  drink,  and  not  at  my  thirst/* 

ON  How  often   does   a  man   hasten   to   **  put 

SERVING  beer  on  ice  "  when  a  friend  drops  in  of  an 
BEER  evening?     Yet    this    is    contrary    to    cus- 

tom in  the  Old  World,  where  one  frequently  sees  the 
German  sit  for  a  few  moments  with  his  hand  about 
his  glass  to  bring  the  contents  to  the  proper  tempera- 
ture before  drinking. 

Beer  should  not  be  served  very  cold,   as  excessive 
chilliness  destroys  the  fine  flavor  it  should  have  and 
renders   it  injurious.     Beer  should  not  be  served  di- 
i66 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

rectly  after  it  has  been  shaken  in  any  manner.  Set  it 
in  the  ice-box,  if  you  like,  but  do  not,  I  implore  you, 
put  it  directly  upon  the  ice.  It's  a  fine  drink,  as  Dan 
Daly  affirmed  in  his  song: 

*'  Beer,    beer,  glorious  beer! 
Fill  yourselves  right  up  to  here  (me  neck)! 
Down  wid  a  pail  of  it! 
Drink  a  good  dale  of  it ! — 
Glorious,  glorious  beer!  " 

Let  US  suppose  that  four  people  are  dining  at  a  res- 
taurant, and  that  with  oysters  or  soup,  fish,  game,  and 
a  salad  and  dessert,  they  wish  wines  to  the  number  of 
two,  fairly  good,  instead  of  a  larger  number  at  a  low^r 
price.  The  dinner  will  begin  with  four  cocktails,  of 
course,  at  25c.  each  in  most  cafes.  Then  to  follow, 
for  the  soup  and  fish,  let  the  sherry  be  Amontillado  old 
dry  at  $2.00  the  bottle.  To  follow  with  the  game, 
let  Burgundy  be  the  choice,  say,  *^  White  Cap  "  ultra 
sec  sparkling,  w^hich  will  be  $2.50  more,  although  one 
may  substitute  Romance  at  $1.50,  if  he  elects.  Cor- 
dials or  cognac  may  follow  at  20c.  per  head — and  the 
w^ne  bill  will  foot  up  just  a  trifle  over  or  under  $6.00, 
as  the  case  may  be. 

At  the  next  table,  suppose  four  people  whose  pocket- 
books  are  not  quite  so  long  are  dining  in  the  same 
fashion.  Let  them  order,  besides  the  cocktails,  a  pale 
Generoso  sherry  at  $1.00  the  bottle,  or  even  a  good 
California  sherry  at  75c.  the  bottle,  to  be  followed  by 

167 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

a  quart  of  Great  Western  Champagne  at  $1.25,  or  a 
quart  of  Beehive  Burgundy  at  75c.,  and  cordials  as 
elected.  The  cocktails  and  cordials  cost  the  same,  but 
for  from  $1.50  to  $2.00  the  impecunious  party  may 
make  merry  over  their  wine  in  the  same  fashion  as 
their  neighbors — and  go  home  with  clearer  heads  into 
the  bargain.  This  is  an  important  item,  for  poor  peo 
pie  generally  have  to  show  up  the  next  morning  over 
a  desk  or  behind  a  counter,  so  the  condition  of  one's 
head  is  of  grave  importance. 

If  three  whines  are  wanted  by  the  "  party  of  the  first 
part,"  let  the  sherry  and  Burgundy  be  followed  by  a 
good,  dry  champagne. 

For  sake  of  variety,  Madeira  might  be  substituted 
for  the  Burgundy,  especially  if  the  third  course  be  an 
entree.  But  after  all,  if  it's  to  be  game,  there's  nothing 
better  to  accompany  the  bird  than  rare  old  Burgundy, 
with  its  pleasant  sparkle  and  roseate  hue. 

The  Californian  takes  great  pride  in  the  wine  of  his 
State.  In  San  Francisco,  where  w^ere,  perhaps,  aside 
from  New  York,  the  finest  restaurants  on  the  conti- 
nent, one  seldom  saw  imported  wine  drunk  unless  it 
be  sherries  and  champagnes,  and,  perhaps,  Burgundies. 
But  after  all,  the  native  whines  are  tempting  enough, 
and  the  sparkling  Moselle  of  California  is  excellent 
indeed,  and  often  substituted  for  champagne.  At 
Zinkand's,  Tait's,  the  Techau  Tavern,  The  Poodle 
Dog,  and  the  Palace  Grill  were  the  finest  of  cellars, 
and  the  wines  of  California  were  served  three  times 
168 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

where  the  imported  were  called  for  once.  As  for  apri- 
cot brandy — there's  no  better  in  the  world  than  that 
of  Southern  California. 

If  one  elects  to  serve  champagne  alone  at  his  dinner 
party,  then  let  It  be  very  dry.  Some  like,  by  way  of 
variety,  to  serve  champagne-cup  throughout  the  meal. 
But  tell  It  not  In  Kentucky — for  If  anyone  dares  there 
to  prefer  anything  to  a  great  glass  pitcher  of  mint  julep, 
he  gets  himself  very  much  disliked  In  the  Blue  Grass 
country. 

Nations  differ  in  their  mode  of  using  wines. 

The  French  take  theirs  at  dinner,  and  use  only 
enough  to  make  conversation  sparkle  like  their  own 
wines. 

The  Germans  sit  early  and  late,  and  the  Russians 
are  only  a  little  more  moderate.  The  Spanish  and 
Italians  strike  a  happy  medium,  while  the  Englishman, 
who  formerly  adopted  French  and  German  methods 
combined,  Is  more  temperate;  Inebriety  has  gone  out  of 
fashion  In  England,  and  as  for  Americans,  they  are 
perhaps  as  a  whole  less  addicted  to  the  use  of  wines 
than  any  other  nation;  but  those  who  do  drink  them, 
drink  heartily.  They  drink  merrily,  withal,  and  are 
decided  contrasts  to  the  English,  who,  as  old  Frolssart 
was  wont  to  declare,  "  do  get  drunk  very  sorrowfully." 

A  Frenchman  will  take  first  his  oysters  and  a  glass 
of  Pontac  or  Chablls.  Then  his  potage  Is  followed 
by  a  glass  of  good  "  vin  ordinaire/'  such  as  Magon ; 
and  after  the  first  course  Is  taken  away  he  commonly 

169 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

pours  a  very  small  glass  of  Madeira,  rum,  or  some- 
thing similar.  Whatever  other  wine  his  fancy  dic- 
tates follows — as  in  France  it  is  posible  to  obtain  the 
finest  of  wines  by  the  glass. 

At  private  dinners  in  Russia  the  wines  are  often 
placed  upon  the  tables,  w^hich  are  free  from  dinner 
service.  The  guests  pour  their  own  wines,  or  have 
them  poured  by  the  servant,  according  to  their  fancy. 
The  plats  de  jour  are  on  side  tables,  and  the  guests  are 
presented  with  a  carte  du  jour,  so  that  each  may  order 
the  servant  to  bring  whatever  most  pleases  his  fancy. 

In  most  other  European  countries,  in  good  society, 
the  French  mode  is  imitated  closely  in  variety  of  wines 
and  the  mode  of  taking  them. 

In  countries  where  ice  is  not  easily  obtainable  a  cu- 
rious fashion  of  cooling  white  wines  is  follow^ed.  The 
decanter  is  hung  up  in  a  flannel  bag  that  has  previously 
been  well  soaked  in  water,  in  the  full  glare  of  the  sun's 
rays  where  there  is  a  strong  ''  courant  d'air/*  The 
consequent  evaporation  by  keeping  the  bag  dripping 
wet  cools  the  wine  almost  to  freezing  point.  The 
water  of  a  covered  well  or  spring,  fresh  drawn,  in 
which  a  pound  or  two  of  salt  is  thrown,  will  reduce 
the  temperature  of  wine  to  a  low  and  agreeable  point. 
The  Italians  still  hold  to  the  old  custom  of  lowering 
the  dinner  w^ine  into  a  well  an  hour  or  two  before  use, 
which  generally  renders  its  temperature  just  right. 

Where  expense  be  no  object,  freezing  mixtures  may 
be  used.  Eleven  parts  of  sal  ammoniac,  dry  and  pow- 
dered, ten  of  nitre,  sixteen  of  Glauber  salts,  and  thirty- 
170 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

two  of  water,  will  cool  wine  sufficiently  in  any  cli- 
mate— but  the  operation  should  be  carried  on  in  the 
coolest  place  possible. 

The  effect  of  atmospheric  cold  in  winter  often  ren- 
ders a  bottle  of  wine  cloudy.  This  may  be  remedied  by 
placing  it  in  a  room  where  there  is  a  good  fire  for  an 
hour  or  two  before  serving. 

In  decanting  sherry  or  Madeira,  the  stoppers  of  the 
decanters  should  be  left  out  for  an  hour  or  two,  but 
this  should  never  be  done  with  light  and  delicate  wines, 
as  their  bouquet  and  freshness  are  visibly  affected  by 
contact  with  the  air. 

The  specific  gravity  of  the  wine  and  the  glass  should 
harmonize ;  therefore  all  delicate  wines  should  be  taken 
from  the  thinnest  of  glasses.  This  modern  preference 
for  thin  glasses  has  precedent  in  the  passion  of  the  an- 
cients for  particular  wine  cups.  The  "  murrhine  cup  " 
from  which  emperors  and  kings  drank  their  Falernian 
wine  is  noticed  in  writings  which  remain.  Often  the 
cups  were  of  finest  glass  from  Egypt,  or  amber,  flasks 
made  in  Syria,  amethystine  cups,  and  vases  of  gold. 

Some  persons  affirm  that  to  really  enjoy  wine,  a  sip 
of  cold  water  should  first  be  taken,  after  which  the 
taste  will  be  at  its  best.  One  cannot  but  sympathize 
with  poor  Sir  Walter  Scott,  who,  it  is  said,  was  singu- 
larly insensible  to  tastes  and  odors.  A  perfect  palate 
is  indeed  a  rare  gift  of  nature.  A  healthy  palate  comes 
from  a  healthy  digestion,  and  is  the  best  gift  for  judg- 
ing the  existing  flavor  of  wine. 

George  the  Fourth  had  so  decided  a  preference  for 
171 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

sherry  that  In  his  day  It  was  the  favorite  wine,  and 
nearly  ousted  Madeira  from  Its  place  In  English  tastes. 
Gypsum  sprinkled  over  the  grapes  while  In  the  vat 
saturate  the  malic  acid  and  give  sherry  Its  brown  color. 
Amontillado  is  the  finest  of  sherries,  and  at  Its  prime 
kept  In  wood  for  sixteen  years.  It  Is  too  dry  for  the 
taste  of  common  wine  drinkers,  but  Is  one  of  the  finest 
growths  In  the  world. 

The  best  Madeiras  have  no  tendency  to  acidity,  and 
the  finest  East  Indian  Madeira  Is  a  wine  that  has 
scarcely  an  equal. 

Marsala,  the  favorite  wine  of  Sicily,  is  excellent; 
other  Sicilian  wines  are  Mazzara,  Bronte,  and  Etna, 
but  Marsala  Is  more  worthy  and  especially  well  adapted 
for  cooking,  In  Italian  sauces. 

The  Rhenish  wines  are  the  purest  and  most  whole- 
some wines,  say  some  experts.  Most  of  them  come 
from  the  banks  of  the  Rhine  and  Moselle  Rivers,  In 
Germany,  and  the  variety  Is  legion.  Genuine  German 
wines  have  a  bouquet  like  the  French,  ,whlch  Is  In  Itself 
a  mark  of  pure  growth.  The  real  golden  Rhenish 
wines,  such  as  NIerstelner,  Marcobrunner,  and  Riides- 
helmer,  are  famous,  while  Johannlsberger  and  Gelssen- 
helmer  are  perfect  In  delicacy  and  aroma.  "  Good 
hoch,"  the  German  proverb  runs,  "  keeps  off  the  doc- 
tor." It  enlivens  without  Inebriating,  strengthens  and 
warms  the  stomach  pleasantly. 

Burgundies  are  the  finest  red  wines  In  the  world  for 
delicacy,  flavor,  perfume,  richness,  and  purity.  A  man 
172 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

of  discriminating  taste  will  pay  as  much  for  Burgundy 
as  for  champagne,  and  not  hesitate  to  announce  his 
preference  for  the  former. 

Bordeaux  clarets,  when  unadulterated,  are  delicate, 
and  are  consumed  in  great  quantity.  Lafitte,  Latour, 
Haut-Brion,  and  Chateau  Margaux  ere  among  the 
popular  brands,  but  there  are  a  hundred  and  one  varie- 
ties that  are  passing  good.  Good  claret  has  a  remarkable 
freshness  of  taste  and  smell.  Many  of  them  come,  in 
France,  under  the  head  of  '' vin  ordinaire''  but  are  by 
no  means  to  be  despised.  Indeed,  in  the  Quartier  Latin 
in  Paris  there  are  scores  of  restaurants  where  the  vin 
ordinaire  at  one  or  two  sous  a  glass  is  drunk  and  en- 
joyed by  the  students  of  all  nations  with  equal  jouis- 
sance.  Ordinarily  it  is  mixed  with  water,  either  plain 
or  mineral.  For  twenty-five  centimes,  or  five  cents,  a 
pint  bottle  may  be  had,  and  no  dejeuner  or  diner  is 
complete  without  this,  at  least,  provided  one's  pocket- 
book  will  not  admit  of  a  better  wine. 

Champagnes — "  king's  wine  " — are  of  several  varie- 
ties :  the  still  or  "  non-mousseux,"  the  effervescing  or 
"  mousseux,"  and  the  "  grand-Mousseux "  or  highly 
effervescent.  Champagne  is  an  enduring  wine,  with 
a  "  bouquet  exquis/'  The  creaming  champagne  of  the 
A'l  sends  up  myriad  bubbles,  but  never  froths,  and  is 
preferred  by  those  of  discriminating  taste  to  that  which 
is  frothy.  Cheap  champagnes  are  most  injurious  to 
the  stomach,  and  have  none  of  the  qualities  of  the 
better  classes.     Champagne,  once  received,  should  never 

173 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

be  moved  until  it  is  wanted  for  table  use.  Great  heat 
or  cold  is  unfavorable  in  keeping  it,  and  the  tempera- 
ture should  be  carefully  attended  to. 

Sauternes,  wines  of  the  Gironde,  are  white  wines 
of  considerable  repute.  They  are  bottled  from  the 
wood  after  seven  or  eight  years,  and  are  excellent 
dinner  wines,  particularly  the  Haut  Sauterne.  It  ^s 
advisable  in  purchasing  Sauterne  to  get  that  of  the 
best  quality. 

Sweet  whines  or  dessert  wines  are  not  so  much  drunk 
as  formerly,  liqueurs  being  substituted  for  these  ''  vins 
de  liqueurs,"  as  the  French  term  them.  The  Musca- 
dines, Frontignacs,  and  Lunals  of  the  south  of  France, 
Lachryma  Christi  of  Naples,  sweet  Syracuse  and 
Cyprus,  made  between  Paphos,  Olympus,  and  Limasol, 
w^here  is  the  great  wine  mart,  are  favorite  sweet  wines. 

It  is  not  every  bachelor  who  can  boast  a  wine  cellar  ; 
indeed,  save  for  one  possessed  of  more  than  ordinary 
wealth,  a  cellar  is  an  expensive  luxury.  The  bachelor 
of  Gray's  Inn  stored  his  wine  under  his  bed,  **  because 
it  would  be  drunk  fast."  A  Devonshire  esquire  who 
loved  wine  "  better  than  anything  but  his  horse," 
stowed  his  wines  in  a  corner  cupboard  near  his  spa- 
cious fireplace,  w^ith  dire  result;  and  a  Scot  who  pur- 
chased a  dozen  bottles  of  choice  vintage  cellared  them 
in  a  cock-loft  for  a  special  evening  at  home  with 
friends.  When  evening  was  advanced,  not  dreaming 
that  his  dozen  were  drunk  out,  he  called  his  Jeannie 
to  bring  **  another  bottle  of  No.  5."     *'  I  wonder  what 

174 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

ye  mean!"  retorted  Jeannie  in  surprise.  ''I  ha' 
fetched  down  from  the  cock-loft  the  last  bottle  of  the 
dozen  ye  had,  an'  ye  maun  noo  go  tae  the  whuskey." 

This  is  a  jaunt  around  Robin  Hood's  Barn  to  ex- 
plain the  necessity  of  proper  care  and  housing  of  wine. 
If  one  has  not  the  proper  place  to  store  it  at  the  right 
temperature  he  had  best  order  it  daily  or  when  wanted 
from  his  dealer's  cellars.  Wine  is  truly  an  expensive 
taste  to  cultivate,  and  its  deterioration  under  unfavor- 
able conditions  is  too  well  known  to  comment  upon. 

In  a  city  house,  the  even  temperature  of  a  brick-bound 
cellar  is  the  best  one  can  expect.  Sweet  wines  may  be 
kept  at  a  temperature  of  sixty  degrees. 

"A  wine  cellar  too  hot  or  too  cold 
Murders  wine  before  it*s  old.'* 

There  are  various  peculiarities  in  wine  which  may  be 
detected  by  the  true  connoisseur.  A  few  of  the  "  stock 
terms  "  of  the  wine  merchant  may  be  given  here  by 
way  of  explanation : 

Green — New  wine. 

Stalky — ^Wine  affected  with  the  astringency  of  the 
vine  wood. 

Bouquet — A  peculiar  odor,  not  of  distinct  char- 
acter. 

Fruity — Commonly  sweetened  port. 

Veloute — Velvety  to  the  tongue.     Smooth  or  soft. 

FuMEAUX — ^Wines  of   great  strength. 

MoNTANT — Those  in  which  the  carbonic  acid  gas 
affects  the  head. 

175 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Wines    for    all    Occasions 

Ferme — Durable;  unlikely  to  change. 

Event — In  France,  dead  wine. 

Vino  Morto — In  Italian,  the  same. 

FiNiR  BiEN — ^Wines  past  probability  of  a  change. 
Lasting. 

Pateux — A  thick,  clammy  wine. 

Plat— Flat. 

Seve — ^Applies  to  flavor  in  tasting,  as  bouquet  to  the 
smell. 

ViN  BouRRU — ^Thick,  unfermented  wine. 

CuvEE — Contents  of  a  vat  at  the  vintage. 

ViN   CuiT — French  ^ 

Vino  Cotto — Italian  >  Boiled  wine. 

Vino  de  Color — Spanish  J 

Vino  Seco — Dry  w^Ine. 

Vino  Brozno — Harsh  wine. 

ViNS  DE  Liqueur — Sweet,  luscious  wines. 

Vino  Passado — ^The  best  wine  that  has  passed  mus- 
ter or  examination. 

Vinotero — A  wine  seller. 


176 


CHAPTER    XVII 

There  are  many  occasions  upon 
which  one  does  not  wish  to  offer 
alcoholic  drinks,  out  of  respect  to 
guests  who  do  not  indulge  in  them — 
or  possibly  because  the  host  may  him- 
self abstain  from  their  use. 

There  are  many  substitutes  from 
which  delicious  drinks  may  be  mixed, 
such  as  ginger  ales,  mineral  waters  of 
various  sorts,  grape  juices,  and  con- 
centrated fruit  syrups.  One  may  soon 
become  as  expert  in  concocting  palata- 
ble drinks  from  various  combinations 
as  the  white-coated  lad  behind  the 
soda-fountain.  A  quarter  or  a  shin- 
ing half  dollar  slipped  in  his  hand 
will  often  bring  suggestions  for 
*'  parlor  mixtures  "  that  will  aid  the 
novice  considerably  in  preparing  his 
menu. 

Besides  mineral  waters,  carbonated 
177 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Temperance    Drinks 

or  plain,  as  preferred,  there  are  domestic  and  Imported 
ginger  ales,  bottled  lemonades  of  claret,  pineapple, 
orange,  and  raspberry  flavors  to  be  bought,  as  well  as 
Green  Ginger  Cordial,  Montserrat  Lime  Juice,  and 
raspberry  vinegars,  with  fruit  syrup  of  any  desired 
flavor.  Combined  with  Iced  tea,  coffee,  or  cocoa,  some 
of  these  fruit  flavors  are  delicious.  Root  beer  is  a  mid- 
summer beverage  that  is  not  only  refreshing,  but  pos- 
sesses medicinal  powers;  and  Iced  ginger  ale  served 
with  a  cream  rabbit  makes  a  temperate  combination 
that  Is  almost  as  toothsome  as  the  ale-mixed  variety. 

"  Water,  water  everywhere,  nor  any  drop  to  drink!  ** 

GINGER  Is  a  mild  drink  that  Is  little  known;  try 
LEMON-  it.  Have  in  a  glass  a  teaspoonful  of  pow- 
■^^^  dered  sugar,  add  to  It  the  juice  of  half  a 

lemon  and  fill  the  glass  with  ginger  ale  that  is  well 
Iced. 

SODA  This    Is    a    most    Innocent    drink,    despite 

COCKTAIL  its  name,  and  one  that  a  tw^o-year-old  may 
not  hesitate  to  Imbibe.  Fill  up  a  long  glass,  then,  with 
lemon  soda,  the  bottled  variety,  and  in  it  dash  a  little 
raspberry  syrup,  and  top  off  with  a  thin  slice  of  orange. 
FARMER'S  Mayhap  you  may  be  going  to  have  a  real, 
DELIGHT  old-fashioned  country  picnic,  at  which 
rural  dainties  are  served.  They  deserve  to  be  washed 
down  with  the  delight  of  the  farmer,  who  swallows 
copious  drafts  of  this  In  the  hayfield  on  a  hot  July 

178 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Temperance    Drinks 

afternoon.  It's  nothing  less  than  the  "  sweetened 
water  "  with  which  Plupy  Shute  regaled  his  friends 
up  in  Exeter  in  the  days  when  the  "  Real  Boy  "  penned 
that  famous  diary.  Water  is  the  basis,  ginger  the 
flavor,  and  molasses  the  sweetener.  They  are  mixed 
to  taste  in  a  great  stone  jug,  which  is  corked  and  set 
In  a  convenient  brook  to  keep  cool. 

LEMON-  ''  Pooh!  "  I  hear  you  say  in  disgust.  "  As 
ADE  if  any  man  couldn't  make  lemonade  without 

being  told."  But  as  this  book  may  fall  into  the  hands  of 
a  Hottentot  or  Malay  or  some  other  hot-house  variety 
of  bachelor,  I  will  set  down  the  proportion  of  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  to  tw^o  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
one-half  pint  of  water  as  being  a  desirable  one.  This 
may  be  varied  by  using  the  juice  of  orange,  lime,  or 
grape-fruit,  in  which  case,  of  course,  it  will  be  the 
other  sort  of  Ade  (not  Hoosier). 

An  abuse  of  ice  at  once  destroys  the  effect  desired, 
besides  being  dangerous.  A  liquid  set  on  ice  and  slowly 
chilled  is  far  more  to  be  recommended  than  the  drink 
in  w^hich  ice  floats,  but  it  is  not  everyone  who  will 
admit  this  truth.  Than  plain  lemonade,  made  from 
the  juice  of  the  lemon,  sweetened  sparsely  with  sugar 
and  diluted  with  water,  and  finally  cooled  on  ice,  there 
is  no  drink  more  acceptable  and  cooling  in  the  heat  of 
the  day.  It  ranks  before  the  long  list  of  acidulated 
drinks  and  gaseous  mineral  waters,  but  it,  too,  falls 
into  disrepute  when  too  liberally  imbibed.  It  is  said 
179 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Temperance    Drinks 

to  be  lowering  in  its  effects,  but  such  an  assertion  is 
nonsense,  unless,  as  Is  said,  it  is  drunk  too  freely. 

Taking  the  average,  it  would  seem  the  plainer  drinks 
have  a  larger  share  of  popularity,  and  soda  and  milk 
is  one  of  the  very  first  favorites.  To  be  perfect  It  re- 
quires a  can  of  Ice  to  be  placed  In  the  milk  and  that  the 
soda  should  have  lain  for  some  time  on  the  Ice  bloc^. 
These  are  the  simplest,  perhaps  best,  and  certainly 
cheapest  of  the  drinks  made  at  home  by  the  unskilled 
amateur. 


1 80 


CHAPTER    XVIII 

"  Costly  tKy  tabit  as  thy  purse  can  buy. 
But    not   expressed    in    fancy ;    rich,    not 

gaudy ; 
For  the  apparel  oft  claims  a  man.' 

— Shakespeare. 

Once  It  "  took  nine  tailors  to  make 
a  man,"  and  no  less  a  person  than 
Byron  vouched  for  this  ancient  He. 
Nowadays,  It  takes  a  Man  as  Is  a 
Man  to  make  a  Tailor,  and  a  Fat 
Bank  Account  to  pay  him. 

It  Is  not  the  province  of  the  writer 
to  presume  to  lay  down  hard  and  fast 
rules  for  the  dress  of  the  bachelor. 
It  Is  granted  that  he  knows  best  how 
he  would  dress,  according  to  his  sta- 
tion. As  a  "  London  tradesman  In  a 
dress  suit  reminds  one  of  a  doyley  on 
a  stove  lid,"  clothes  have  un-made  the 
man  quite  as  often  as  they've  made 
him.  King  Edward,  who  Is  taken  as  a 
i8i 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
Correct    Clothes 

model  of  civilized  dress  from  Singapore  to  Sitka,  dis- 
plays common  sense  and  judgment  that  every  bachelor 
may  do  well  to  emulate,  especially  in  the  matter  of 
jewelry.  "  Rarely  does  the  king  wear  more  than  one 
finger  ring,"  says  a  London  haberdasher's  journal.  A 
profusion  of  jew^elry  is  unequivocally  vulgar  in  a  man, 
even  though  it  may  indicate  wealth. 

To  hit  the  happy  medium  between  Frenzied  Fashiom 
and  Moldy  Modes,  adapt  the  prevailing  style  of  dress 
to  your  bearing  and  manner.  To  do  this  is  to  be  mas- 
ter of  one  of  the  fine  arts.  Study,  therefore,  your 
apparel  that  it  may  be  fit  for  function  and  form.  An 
ill-fitting  coat  Is  a  crime  against  good  taste.  First, 
have  your  clothes  fit  you;  then  fit  your  clothes,  that 
they  "  shall  not  make  a  false  report."  *'  Mark  Twain  " 
has  said  that  "  one  cannot  tell  from  the  looks  of  a 
frog  how^  far  It  can  jump,"  but  more  often  than  not  a 
man  is  judged  by  the  clothing  he  wears.  Whether 
they  are  built  in  the  Rue  de  la  Paix,  New  Bond  Street, 
Fifth  Avenue,  or  Sutter  Street,  does  not  particularly 
matter,  so  long  as  they  fit.  The  unskilled  cloth 
butchers  of  the  West  End  of  London  have  made  many 
a  man  look  like  a  suit  of  pajamas  on  an  umbrella 
stand. 

Togs  that  become  one  man  may  make  another  re- 
semble a  mongrel  in  a  fancy  blanket.  As  plaids  were 
Invented  for  the  rail-bird,  stripes  for  the  jail-bird,  and 
tweeds  for  Tammany  Hall,  so  do  various  other  less 

182 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Clothes 

pronounced  styles  adapt  themselves  to  the  various  pur- 
suits and  professions.  The  fitness  of  clothes  is  quite 
as  important  as  the  fit,  and  the  bachelor  w^ho  devotes  a 
little  time  and  thought  to  his  apparel  will  soon  be  as 
fit  as  possible. 

"  Be  not  vain  of  thy  covering,"  and  remember  that 
"  it's  the  man  beneath  the  clothes  "  that  counts  w^ith 
most  people.  One  meets  occasionally  a  man  who,  like 
Adam,  "  doesn't  give  a  fig  what  he  wears."  But  cus- 
tom and  climate  combine  to  give  him  a  certain  respon- 
sibility in  the  matter,  although  he's  generally  the  sort 
of  fellow  w^hose  apparel  doesn't  concern  people  so  long 
as  he  wears  something. 

There's  a  happy  medium  between  a  dandy  and  a 
*'  Dirty  Dick,"  and  he  w^ho  strikes  it  is  to  be  congratu- 
lated, for  none  shall  dare  say,  like  Coriolanus,  that 
you  are  "  a  fool  in  good  clothes." 

"  A  smart  coat  is  a  good  letter  of  introduction" 

BUT 
*' A  slovenly  dress  betokens  a  careless  mind" 
" Fashion  is  more  powerful  than  any  tyrant" 

The  Londoner  has  the  reputation  of  being  the  best 
dressed  man  in  the  world.  Search  for  him  not  in  the 
City,  where  silk  hats  and  tan  shoes  are  at  either  end  of 

183 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Clothes 

the  same  man,  with  a  short-tailed  coat  and  a  bulldog 
pipe  between.  Rather  in  Mayfair,  the  Pall  Mall 
clubs,  and  the  Piccadilly  promenade  this  glass*  of 
fashion  is  to  be  found. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Grundy  has  prescribed  the  following  tab- 
lets which  are  taken  by  the  patient  before  each  func- 
tion with  good  result.  It  may  be  added  that  any  at- 
tempt to  keep  up  in  motoring  fashions  will  result  in^ 
insanity  or  inebriety.  Fashion  shows  herself  fickle 
indeed  in  this  raiment,  and  what  is  new  to-day  is  old 
to-morrow.  For  other  occasions,  however,  the  tabu- 
lated form  is  sufficiently  correct,  regardless  of  seasons. 

"  They  eat  and  drink   and   scheme   and   plod 
And  go  to  church  on   Sunday; 
And  go  to  church  on  Sunday; 
But  more  of  Mrs.  Grundy." 

"  There  is  fashion  in  all  things,  as  in  dogs  going  to 
church/' 

MOURN-  A  man  wears  mourning  for  a  parent,  sis- 
ING  FOR  ter,  or  brother  for  six  months  or  a  year,  as 
^^^  he  prefers.     The  crape  hatband  is  adopted 

for  this  dress,  but  should  be  much  narrower  than  that  of 
a  widower.  First  mourning  consists  of  complete  suits  of 
black,  dull  black  leather  shoes,  black  gloves,  and  cuff- 
links of  black  enamel.  Second  mourning  should  be 
gray  or  black  clothes,  black  and  white  silk  ties,  gray  or 
black  gloves,  and  black  and  white  linen.  Men  do  not, 
184 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
Correct    Clothes 

as  a  rule,  carry  black-bordered  handkerchiefs.  Few 
men  wear  mourning  for  grandparents  or  other  rela- 
tives. The  wearing  of  a  black  band  on  the  coat  sleeve 
is  condemned  by  the  best  people.  It  is  a  custom  bor- 
rowed from  England,  where  it  was  originally  intro- 
duced for  liveried  servants  whom  it  was  not  thought 
necessary  to  fit  out  in  complete  black  liveries.  The 
w^orst  thing  about  a  band  is  that  it  is  unclassifiable, 
since  a  man  may  wear  it  for  a  near  or  a  distant  rela- 
tive. If  a  man  cannot  afford  or  does  not  approve  of 
mourning,  then  he  should  abjure  the  entire  livery  of 
grief,  for  the  compromise  of  a  black  band  betrays  a 
painfully  economical  mind. 

After  mourning,  a  man  may  resume  his  social  duties 
in  from  three  weeks  to  two  months.  While  wearing 
a  broad  band  on  his  hat  for  a  near  relative  a  man  should 
not  attend  the  theater,  opera,  or  a  ball. 

THE  "  The  Tuxedo  coat  is  no  longer  used  as  a 

TUXEDO  dinner  coat  except  at  a  stag  dinner,  at  a 
club  or  hotel,  or  at  an  informal  at-home  dinner  when 
only  the  members  of  one's  family  attend,  or  at  the 
house  where  one  boards.  It  may  be  worn  at  the  thea- 
ter or  for  an  evening  call,  when  women  are  not  to  be 
met.  In  fact,  it  is  considered  a  lounging  jacket,  only 
one  degree  removed  from  a  smoking  jacket,  and  should 
not  be  worn  when  women  are  present  except  at  home. 
The  waistcoat  worn  with  a  Tuxedo  should  be  of  light 
gray  linen."     As  this  is  from  a  noted  English  author- 

185 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Correct    Clothes 

ity,  it  may  be  regarded  by  a  man  who  wishes  to  be 
thoroughly  English  In  his  dress;  but  In  America  the 
Tuxedo  Is  very  generally  worn,  especially  In  hotels, 
informal  family  dinners,  and  to  the  theater — in  fact, 
upon  all  occasions  when  the  regulation  clawhammer 
is  not  strictly  demanded. 


1 86 


CHAPTER 


XIX 


*'Tlie  first  thing  a  poor  gentleman   calls 
for  of  a  morning  ia  a  needle  and  thread." 
— Scotch 

"His  lordship  finds  the  valet  de  chambre 
a  necessary  evil.' 

"As  a  man  dresses,  so  is  he  esteemed." 

Happy  the  man  who,  having  a  valet, 
has  no  care  of  his  clothes,  and  *'  takes 
no  heed  to  his  raiment  "  save  to  be 
thoroughly  up-to-date  in  every  re- 
spect. 

The  man  w^ho  knows  how  to  take 
care  of  his  own  clothes  is  at  an  ad- 
vantage; for  even  though  it  be  not 
necessary  for  him  to  economize,  an 
occasional  emergency  may  arise  in 
which,  if  he  knows  just  what  to  do, 
he  may  rescue  his  apparel  from  cer- 
tain ruin.  As  "  a  stitch  in  time  saves 
nine,"  so  does  prompt  attention  to  a 
chance  stain  or  splash  from  the  ink 
bottle  save  a  suit  from  being  spoiled. 

187 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    a    Man    May    Valet    Himself 

The  impecunious  bachelor  generally  cares  for  his 
own  clothing  during  his  spare  time,  and  often  looks 
quite  as  well  groomed  as  the  man  who  pays  his  valet 
forty  a  month  and  "  found."  There  are  various  handy 
devices  on  the  market  to  assist  him,  notably  the  "  ward- 
robe chair,"  which  provides  for  keeping  the  trousers 
well  creased  and  disposing  of  his  business  suit  over 
night,  as  well  as  furnishing  a  boot-black  stand. 

A  little  care  only  Is  necessary  to  make  a  man  look^ 
well  set  up.  He  should  keep  his  hats  In  separate  boxes 
when  not  wearing  them.  If  a  coat  is  nicely  brushed 
upon  being  taken  off.  If  trousers  are  carefully  kept 
creased  through  the  medium  of  the  wardrobe  chair  or 
the  patent  hangers  which  may  be  purchased  for  a  few 
cents,  if  gloves  are  carefully  smoothed  when  taken  off, 
and  if  a  watchful  care  is  lavished  upon  buttons  and 
linen  to  prevent  the  one's  being  lost  and  the  other 
frayed  and  ragged — even  the  bachelor  of  the  hall  bed- 
room may  be  nicely  groomed  and  always  neat. 

"  He  who  has  but  one  coat  cannot  lend  it,"  goes  the 
old  proverb.  It  is  for  the  benefit  of  the  man  with  one 
coat  that  many  of  the  following  rules  for  cleansing  are 
given,  in  the  hope  that  they  may  aid  the  Impecunious 
bachelor  In  keeping  himself  tidy. 

For  a  dime  the  bachelor  may  buy  a  box  of  patent 
trousers  buttons  that  are  warranted  not  to  pull  off. 
These  are  attached  In  various  ways,  but  one  of  the  best 
has  little  prongs  that  push  through  the  cloth  and  bend 
down  on  the  Inside. 

i88 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    a    Man    May    Valet    Himself 

If  one  has  little  room,  a  box  couch  is  a  great  conven- 
ience, for  clothing  may  be  kept  in  it  and  laid  flat  with- 
out wrinkling.  It  is  thus  better  kept  from  dust  than  in  a 
closet,  and  may  serve  in  summer  as  a  receptacle  for  win- 
ter clothing.  It  is  economy  in  the  end  to  have  one's  fur 
cap  or  fur-lined  coat  stored  by  a  furrier,  who  will  in- 
sure and  prorect  against  moths  for  a  trifling  sum.  But 
in  case  one  lives  miles  from  a  furrier  and  is  obliged  to 
care  for  it  himself,  directions  are  included  for  stor- 
ing such  clothes  with  camphor.  Cedar  branches  laid 
among  clothes  will  keep  away  moths,  or  if  one  has  a 
cedar  chest,  so  much  the  better. 

Men  never  seem  to  be  very  handy  in  mending  their 
own  underclothing  and  linen.  It  is  nearly  always  pos- 
sible to  arrange  with  one's  laundress  to  do  the  weekly 
mending  before  the  laundry  is  put  in  the  water.  If 
this  is  neglected,  the  tear  generally  makes  great  head- 
way, and  sometimes  ruins  the  article  beyond  mend- 
ing. 

A  couple  of  ticking  laundry  bags  are  great  conven- 
iences. One  may  send  his  laundry  away  in  one  while 
the  other  hangs  on  the  closet  door  and  serves  during 
the  week  as  a  receptacle  for  soiled  clothes. 

One  of  the  average  bachelor's  greatest  expenditures 
is  for  hosiery.  Have  any  of  you  ever  heard  a  man  say, 
''  Oh,  I  never  bother  about  having  stockings  mended ; 
when  they  are  too  bad  to  wear  I  throw  'em  away  "  ? 
Changing  the  hose  once  a  day  or  every  other  day  and 
keeping  them  nicely  mended  means  a  great  saving  in 

189 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    a    Man    May    Valet    Himself 

the  end.    And  mending  stockings  Isn't  half  so  difficult 
as  It  sounds.     Try  and  see. 

CLEANING  With  many  a  man  the  "  tyranny  of  ties  " 
TIES  is  so  great  as  to  be  all-absorbing.     Some 

men  hang  their  ties  and  stocks  on  the  nickel  rods  that 
come  for  the  purpose  all  ready  to  screw  Inside  the 
closet  door  or  beside  the  chiffonier.  Others,  who  are 
mindful  of  the  ravages  of  dust,  keep  them  laid  flat  in 
a  drawer  of  the  chiffonier.  Who  has  not  had  a  favor- 
ite tie  which  he  hated  for  some  reason,  sentimental  or» 
otherwise,  to  discard?  Many  a  worn  tie  may  be  made 
almost  as  good  as  new  If  these  directions  are  followed: 
Take  a  weak  solution  of  borax  and  carefully  sponge  the 
tie  with  that.  Sponge  moderately  lengthwise,  w^Ith,  not 
against,  the  grain,  then  press  out  with  a  warm  iron  on 
the  w^rong  side  only.  White  or  cream  silk  or  satin 
ties  that  have  been  cleansed  and  are  yet  too  good  to 
throw  away  may  be  dyed  any  desired  shade  at  a  trifling 
cost.  Any  grease  spots  on  silk  or  satin  w^ould  best  be 
removed  by  benzine.  Some  use  chloroform  or  ether, 
but  either  Is  likely  to  leave  a  ring  around  the  spot  that 
has  been  sponged,  so  benzine  Is,  on  the  whole,  more 
satisfactory. 

TO  Often   an   overcoat,    that   is   otherwise   in 

RENEW  A  good  condition,  Is  rendered  unsightly  and 
VELVET  shabby  by  its  collar.  If  It  be  crushed 
COLLAR  ^^jjy  ^^^  wrinkled,  heat  the  flatiron,  and 
put  bottomside  up  on  the  table.  Over  It  put  a  clean 
rag  wet  in  cold  water  and  lay  the  velvet  collar  right 
190 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    a    Man    May    Valet    Himself 

side  up  over  this.  While  the  steam  from  the  wet  cloth 
rises  through  the  nap  of  the  velvet,  brush  with  a  soft 
hat  brush,  being  careful  to  brush  the  "  right  way  of  the 
velvet."  This  restores  it  beautifully,  and  makes  it 
good  as  new. 

TO  Put    the    gloves    on.     Have    in    a    saucer 

CLEAN  some  gasolene  and  wash  your  gloved  hands 
WHITE  'j^  ^j^'g  after  which  take  a  clean  flannel 
GLOVES  '  1,1.  ,  • 

rag  and  wipe  and  rub  the  gloves,  taking  care 

not  to  do  this  near  a.  fire  or  burning  gas.  When  quite 
dry,  take  off  and  pin  to  the  curtain  or  where  a  current  of 
air  may  strike  them  and  cause  the  gasolene  to  evapo- 
rate quickly.  This  answers  for  white  glace  gloves, 
but  white  suede  are  better  cleansed  by  a  professional 
cleaner.  Pipe-clay  and  an  old  toothbrush  are  com- 
monly used,  and  white  cloth  used  on  uniforms  is 
cleansed  in  the  same  fashion.  The  clay  is  applied  dry, 
then  moistened  and  rubbed  vigorously  with  the  tooth- 
brush. It  may  at  first  look  unsightly,  and  you  may 
think  the  goods  is  ruined.  But  rinse  the  brush  and 
scour  the  cloth  with  clean  water,  dry,  and  it  will  look 
fresh  as  when  newly  bought. 

PUTTING  When  packing  away  flannels  and  heavy 
AWAY         winter  clothing,  camphor  gum  wrapped  in 

pieces  of  tissue  paper  put  among  the  goods 
CLOTHING  :  1  1  ,         XT 

is   warranted   to   keep   away   moths.     No 

soiled  clothing  should  be  put  away,   as  dirt  attracts 

moths    and    buffalo    bugs.     Even    perspiration    stains 

under  the  arms  will  often  attract  them.     The  clothing 

191 


A     BACHELOR'S     C  IT  P  B  O  A  R  D 

How    a    Man    May    Valet    Himself 

should,  If  possible,  be  hung  out  for  a  day  In  the  air 
and  sunh'ght  before  packing  away.  To  prevent  creas- 
ing and  wrinkling,  w^hich  Is  so  annoying,  take  old  news- 
papers and  lay  them,  without  opening,  between  the 
folds.  If  there  are  few  things  In  the  trunk  or  chest, 
the  remaining  space  should  be  filled  with  crumpled 
newspapers. 

TO  Purchase  from  a  druggist  some  soap-bark, 

CLEAN  and  in  the  proportion  of  an  ounce  of  bark 
A  COAT  ^Q  2  quart  of  water  steep  the  bark  and  let 
It  stand  over  night.  Then  strain  and  add  an  equal 
amount  of  gasolene.  Rub  this  mixture  on  the  wrist- 
bands and  collar  of  the  coat,  using  a  new  clean  brush. 
Go  over  all  the  grease  spots,  and  wet  the  brush  In  the 
mixture  and  go  over  the  entire  coat.  If  the  goods  has 
any  *'  right  way  of  the  cloth,"  rub  w^ith  the  twill. 
Stretch  the  sleeves  and  pocket  holes  and  collar,  and  be 
careful  to  keep  the  entire  coat  In  proper  shape.  Spread 
out  smooth  and  flat  on  a  clean  cloth  on  the  table,  or,  if 
available,  an  ironing  board.  Lay  a  towel  over  the 
coat,  and  with  a  hot  Iron  press  It  carefully  Into  the 
desired  shape.  After  It  Is  dry,  brush  carefully  to  re- 
move any  lint,  and  hang  It,  buttoned,  over  a  coat 
hanger. 

TO  Many  a  good  coat  has  been  discarded  be- 

REMOVE  cause  of  the  persistent  shine  on  collar,  from 
GLOSS  leaning    against    a    chair    or    on    elbows. 

Make    a   saturated    solution    of    powdered 
borax  and  water,  and  apply  to  shiny  places 
192 


COAT 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    a    IVIan    May    Valet    Himself 

with  a  sponge.    Rub  on  thoroughly,  then  wipe  off  with 

clear  water  in  the  same  manner. 

TO  Sponge  on  the  wrong  side  with  cool  water 

RENEW       and  press  with  a  warm  Iron  until  smooth. 

SILK  'pj^jg    should    make    the    silk    stiffer    and 

MUFFLERS  ,    .  , 

brighter. 

While  every  man,  however  anxious  he  may  be  to 
valet  himself,  may  balk  when  It  comes  to  doing  his 
own  boots,  a  few  "  how  to  do's  "  along  this  line  may 
not  come  amiss.  For  there  are  times  when  the  ranch- 
man or  prospector  or  camper  wants  to  ride  to  town 
with  Immaculate  shoe  leather,  or  perhaps  he  elects  to 
"  go  to  a  dance,"  and  Is  fifty  miles  from  a  bootblack. 
Then  let  him  read : 

A  fine  ointment  for  boots  which  keeps  the  leather 
from  cracking  and  preserves  it  well  is  made  in  this 
fashion:  Take  four  ounces  of  lard,  four  ounces  of  olive 
oil,  and  one  ounce  of  caoutchouc,  and  melt  together 
over  a  slow  fire  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Moisten  the 
sole  of  the  boot  with  water  and  warm  It  before  the  fire. 
Then  smear  this  ointment  over  the  sole  and  the  top 
of  the  boot.  This,  when  exposed  to  snow  or  rain,  will 
be  absolutely  Impervious  to  dampness,  and  makes  the 
life  of  a  boot  that  Is  used  in  mud  or  snow  twice  as  long. 

To  remedy  tight  shoes,  one  may  adopt  either  of  the 
two  following  plans:  After  lacing  the  shoe,  wet  a 
folded  cloth  in  boiling  hot  water  and  put  over  the  part 
of  the  shoe  that  pinches.  Or  pour  into  a  wash  basin 
water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  and  put  the  foot  in  it, 

193 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    a    Man    May    Valet    Himself 

working  the  toes  about  In  the  shoe  and  making  it  con- 
form to  the  shape  of  the  foot  as  the  leather  expands. 
This  will  not  injure  patent  leather,  but  it  is  a  good 
plan  to  rub  over  with  vaseline  or  petroleum  jelly  on  a 
flannel  rag  after  wetting.  This  nearly  always  gives 
instantaneous  relief  from  pinching  shoes. 

For  tan  shoes,  banana  peelings  possess  some  coloring 
matter  and  tannic  acid  that  seems  essential  in  polish- 
ing red  leather.  Rub  the  inside  of  the  peel  on  the  shoe 
and  polish  with  a  flannel  rag.  This  gives  the  best 
of  results. 

To  dry  wet  shoes  quickly  when  one  is  far  from  a  shoe- 
tree,  put  some  small  pebbles  or  gravel  in  a  pan  and  heat, 
not  too  hot,  and  fill  the  shoes  w^ith  them.  It  may  be 
necessary  to  repeat  the  process. 

To  restore  the  softness  of  leather  that  has  been  wet, 
rub  the  shoes  with  kerosene  oil,  pinching  the  leather 
and  working  it  between  the  fingers  as  you  do  so. 

Rubber  boots  should  be  dried  carefully,  and  when 
they  become  wet  inside  they  need  heroic  treatment. 
Have  a  peck  of  oats,  or,  failing  these,  coarse  sand,  or 
even  old  rags.  Heat  quite  hot,  then  put  inside  the 
boot,  and  repeat  until  the  boot  is  quite  dry. 

Allow  mud  to  dr>^  on  the  shoes  before  brushing  it 
off.  Then  rub  over  with  kerosene  oil  and  glycerine 
in  equal  parts.  If  glycerine  is  not  available,  the  oil 
alone  may  be  used.  Even  tallow  or  melted  lard  may 
be  used  in  emergencies. 

For  creaking  shoes,  put  in  a  shallow  pan  or  pie  tin 
194 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    a    Man    May    Valet    Himself 

some  melted  lard  and  stand  the  shoes  In  it  over  night. 
This  not  only  removes  the  creak,  but  makes  them  im- 
pervious to  water. 

When  a  leather  belt  has  been  exposed  to  the  wet 
during  a  hard,  rainy  ride,  or  a  tramp  through  the  wet 
underbrush  on  a  hunting  trip,  it  will  become  hard  and 
easily  cracked.  Rub  It  well  with  kerosene  or  another 
oil.  Put  the  oil  on  a  rag  and  draw  the  belt  rapidly 
through  it  a  few  times,  then  w^ipe  dry  with  another 
cloth.  Tallow,  lard,  or  even  vaseline  are  good  sub- 
stitutes. 

The  white  canvas  or  leather  shoes  so  much  worn  now 
in  summer  are  easily  cleansed,  either  with  pipe-clay  well 
rubbed  in  and  allowed  to  dry,  or  with  boxes  of  specially 
prepared  paste  that  comes  for  the  purpose.  As  most 
bootblacks  now  make  a  specialty  of  cleansing  white 
shoes,  the  average  man  will  find  it  cheaper  in  the  end 
to  patronize  this  ''  skilled  labor  "  than  to  do  his  own 
shoes. 


195 


It    is 

bachelor  who  is  reduced  to  cleansing 
his  own  clothing.  Emergencies  are 
quite  likely  to  arise  at  any  time,  in 
which  prompt  action  may  save  cloth- 
ing from  becoming  ruined.  "  First 
aid  to  the  injured  "  is  quite  as  nec- 
essary in  case  of  an  overturned  soup 
plate  or  a  carving  accident  as  on  the 
battlefield  or  in  a  street  brawl,  and 
fortunate  indeed  is  the  man  who 
knows  just  how  to  cope  with  a  grease 
spot  or  a  stain. 

There  are  many  simple  but  effica- 
cious cleansing  agents  that  may  be 
employed,  and  every  man  should 
familiarize  himself  with  a  few  of 
them  to  be  used  in  case  of  emergency. 
Grease  spots  are  the  most  common 
injuries  to  clothing;,  and  these  are 
197 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    to    Cleanse    Clothes 

sometimes  remo*s^ed  m«re  effectually  by  one  applica- 
tion than  another.  Only  the  most  simple  rules  will  be 
given  here,  that  may  be  followed  by  any  man  with  a 
minimum  of  patience  and  time. 

A  bachelor  might  fashion  for  himself  a  "  handy 
box  "  containing  various  emergency  tools,  or  possibly 
if  he  makes  his  wants  known,  some  woman  friend  will 
take  pity  on  his  helplessness  and  get  together  the 
things  for  him.  Besides  the  preparations  mentioned 
in  this  chapter,  there  should  be  a  fine  sponge  for  spong- 
ing spots,  a  nail  brush  with  fine  bristles,  a  piece  of 
Ivory  soap,  a  roll  of  linen  or  cotton  rags,  another  of 
flannel  pieces,  and  a  box  of  prepared  French  chalk,  some 
clean  pieces  of  blotting  paper,  a  bottle  of  oxalic  acid, 
one  of  salts  of  lemon,  one  of  turpentine,  and  one  of 
ammonia. 

'j'Q  In  these   motor-mad   days,   what  bachelor 

REMOVE  has  not  suffered  at  some  time  from  machine 
WHEEL  OR  grease  and  oil,  w^hile  wrestling  with  a 
MACHINE    stalled  motor  or  choked  carburetor?     To 

remove  this,  or  wheel  oil,  if  a  washable 
fabric,  take  cold  rain  water  and  washing  or  baking 
soda — either  w^ill  do — rub  the  soda  into  the  spot  and 
wash  out  wuth  cold  water.  Repeat  the  operation  until 
the  grease  is  gone. 

TO  Frequently  a  man  is  bothered  with  mud 

REMOVE  stains  on  the  bottoms  of  his  trousers,  even 
MUD  after  the  mud  has  been  brushed  off.     In 

the  first  place,  never  try  to  brush  mud  while 
it  is  wet.    Allow  it  to  dry  slowly,  then  if  a  fine  horse 

198 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    to    Cleanse    Clothes 

hair  brush  fails  to  remove  the  stain,  cut  a  potato  In 
two  and  rub  the  raw  surface  on  the  spot.  This  will 
generally  remove  it. 

ALCOHOL  One  of  the  most  effectual  agents  for  the 
AND  SALT  removal  of  grease  is  alcohol  and  salt  in 
the  proportion  of  four  tablespoonfuls  of  alcohol  to 
one  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Mix  and  shake  until  the 
salt  is  dissolved  and  apply  with  a  woolen  rag. 

IF  OIL  ever  get  on  one's  handkerchiefs,  put  them 

STAINS  to  soak  in  warm  water  in  which  a  spoon- 
ful of  ammonia  has  been  turned.  This  removes  the 
oil,  but  if  once  washed  by  ordinary  methods,  the  stain 
will  never  come  out. 

TO  Put  powdered  French  chalk  thickly  over 

REMOVE  the  grease  spot.  Cover  w^Ith  a  sheet  of 
GREASE  brown  paper  and  then  set  smoothly  on  the 
CARPETS  P^P^i"?  ^  hot  flat  iron  and  let  remain  until 
cool,  when  it  will  be  found  that  the  chalk 
has  absorbed  all  grease.  The  chalk  is  easily  brushed 
up.  The  same  method  may  be  used  in  removing  grease 
from  clothing,  if  desired. 

Many  times  a  grease  spot  that  is  thought  to  have 
been  removed  will  gather  dust  and  betray  itself  w^eeks 
after  the  original  application  of  cleansing  agents.  In 
this  case,  the  spot  will  generally  respond  to  hot  alum 
water  applied  with  a  sponge.  Heat  a  cup  of  water 
and  in  it  put  sufficient  powdered  or  lump  alum  to  make 
a  strong  solution  and  let  get  very  hot,  dissolving  the 
alum  before  applying. 

199 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    to    Cleanse    Clothes 

BENZINE,     are  all  excellent  for  removing  grease  and 
NAPHTHA  other  spots  from  clothing,  but  should  never 

^^^  be  used  near  a  fire.     Apply  any  of  these 

GASOLENE      .  ,  ^^  kk"       .u  .  k  •  n 

with  a  cotton  rag,  rubbing  the  spot  briskly 

until  it  disappears.  If  possible,  afterward  hang  the 
garment  up  In  the  sunlight  until  the  gasolene,  or  what- 
ever has  been  used,  has  evaporated. 
CLEANING  This  cleaning  mixture  may  be  put  up  by 
MIXTURE  any  druggist,  If  a  man  wishes  to  keep  on 
hand  something  a  bit  stronger  than  any  of  the  above 
mentioned.  One-half  ounce  of  glycerine,  one-half 
ounce  of  sulphuric  ether,  one-half  ounce  of  castile  soap, 
and  sufficient  warm  water  to  make  a  quart  of  mixture. 
Scrape  the  soap  and  dissolve  It  In  the  warm  water,  then 
let  cool  and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Keep  in  a 
bottle  well  corked  and  apply  with  a  flannel  rag  or 
sponge. 

CLEANING  Ivory  brushes  and  knife  handles  may  be 
IVORY  nicely  cleaned  by  using  prepared  chalk 
moistened  with  equal  parts  of  ammonia  and  olive  oil 
made  into  a  paste  and  rubbed  on  the  Ivory.  Rub  of? 
when  dry.  A  second  application  may  be  necessary. 
Piano  keys  may  be  wiped  with  a  cloth  wet  in  alcohol. 
PAINT  may    generally    be    removed    by   applying 

STAINS  spirits  of  turpentine.  Benzine  will  also 
remove  paint,  but  leaves  Its  own  stain.  To  remove 
that,  apply  powdered  French  chalk  and  let  stand  over 
night.  The  chalk  brushes  out  easily  from  any  fabric, 
so  do  not  hesitate  to  use  it. 

200 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    to    Cleanse    Clothes 

BLOOD  one  is  generally  most  desirous  of  removing 
STAINS  quickly,  and  this  is  how  they  do  it  in 
Heidelberg,  where  the  duels  are  of  such  frequency  that 
it  seems  someone  is  always  running  for  a  basin  of  warm 
water  and  ammonia,  in  which  curtain,  table  cover,  or 
bedclothes  are  soaked.  If  the  stains  have  been  allowed 
to  dry,  then  procure  some  scales  of  pepsin  and  apply 
to  the  stains.  This  will  digest  the  blood,  and  it  can 
then  be  easily  washed  out.  This  they  vouch  for  In 
Berlin  hospitals  where  the  Herr  Doktor  is  nothing  If 
not  resourceful. 

KEROSENE  As  soon  as  oil  Is  spilled  on  a  carpet  or 
STAINS  table  cover,  sprinkle  the  spot  thickly  with 
corn  meal,  if  you  have  it.  If  not,  lay  several  layers  of 
soft  brown  paper  on  the  spot  and  press  with  a  warm 
Iron.  Apropos  of  Irons,  most  bachelor  menages  now 
boast  an  electric  Iron  which  may  be  attached  by  Its 
tube  to  the  fixtures  of  any  room.  It  heats  quickly  and 
is  a  valuable  asset,  for  the  uses  of  a  warm  flatiron.  If 
a  man  is  doing  these  little  things  for  Wmself,  are  legion. 
ACID  In  laboratory  work  one  is  apt  to  stain  the 

STAINS  clothing  occasionally  with  acids,  in  spite 
of  the  care  taken  to  prevent  such  a  misfortune.  Am- 
monia will  generally  destroy  It  If  applied  at  once. 
Should  the  color  not  be  restored  in  its  original  bright- 
ness, apply  chloroform.  Ammonia  should  never  be 
used  on  any  save  fast  colors.  Stains  made  by  vinegar 
or  white  wines  or  lemons  may  be  removed  from  white 
goods  as  follows :  wash  the  article  in  clear  water,  then 
20 1 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    to    Cleanse    Clothes 

In  chlorine  water.  If  the  colors  are  delicate,  make 
some  prepared  chalk  into  a  thin  paste  with  water  and 
apply  to  the  spot,  brushing  off  when  dry. 
VARNISH  will  readily  respond  to  kerosene  oil  If 
STAINS  rubbed  in  until  the  varnish  is  soft.  Wash, 
after,  with  soap  and  water.  This  removes  varnish 
from  the  hands  very  quickly. 

INK  An  overturned  Ink  well  Is  a  frequent  mls- 

STAINS  hap  even  in  the  best  regulated  bachelor 
apartments,  and  nothing  causes  his  lordship  so  much 
consternation  as  to  see  the  Inky  fluid  trickling  over 
his  papers  and  running  In  a  little  rivulet  over  the  carpet 
or  table  cover.  The  handy  box  should  contain  a  bottle 
of  salts  of  lemon  for  just  such  emergencies  as  these. 
Cover  the  ink  spots  with  this  and  let  remain  a  few 
moments,  when  the  stain  will  disappear.  Wash  the 
article  with  a  brush  and  soap,  rinse  with  clear  water 
and  wipe  dry.  Dry  salt  may  be  used,  in  case  salts  of 
lemon  are  not  procurable.  Apply  at  once,  and  as  soon 
as  the  salt  becomes  discolored,  brush  off  and  apply 
fresh,  wetting  the  salt  slightly  on  the  second  applica- 
tion. Continue  until  the  spot  has  disappeared.  In 
case  the  Ink  has  run  on  the  carpet  or  rug,  apply  salt 
and  wet  with  milk.  Let  this  remain  until  dry,  and 
then  rub  off.  Repeat  the  process  if  any  stain  remains. 
To  remove  any  kind  of  stains  from  red  Ink,  tartaric 
acid  Is  necessary.  For  white  goods,  make  the  spot 
damp  with  clear  water  and  rub  the  acid  Into  it.  For 
w^oolens  and  colored  cottons,  dilute  the  acid  and  apply 
it  cautiously  until  the  spots  have  disappeared. 
202 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

How    to    Cleanse    Clothes 

INDELIBLE  One  would  suppose  that  stains  from  Indell- 
INK  ble  ink  could  not  be  removed,  but  they  are 

by  no  means  hopeless.    A  saturated  solution  of  cyanuret 
of  potassium  and  water  will  remove  such  stains.   Apply 
carefully  with  a  camel's  hair  brush.     The  cyanuret  is 
a  poison  and  should  be  handled  with  care. 
INKY  The  toiler  over  the  ledger  is  often  annoyed 

FINGERS  by  inky  fingers,  and  if  he  does  not  keep  in 
the  office  lavatory  a  piece  of  pumice  stone  or  hand 
sapolio,  he  may  remove  all  traces  of  his  trade  by  simply 
moistening  the  head  of  an  ordinary  sulphur  match  and 
rubbing  the  ink  spots  with  it.  In  using  pumice  stone 
for  removing  stains,  first  rub  the  stone  on  soap,  then 
apply. 


203 


"Expect  not  at  another's  hand  what  you 
can  do  hy  your  own." 

AIRING  A  woman  who,  as  the 
THE  BED  mother  of  several  sons, 
has  many  young  men  as  guests  at 
her  large  country  house,  says  she 
can  Invariably  judge  a  man  from 
the  care  he  takes  of  his  rodm.  A 
young  man  who  has  been  well 
brought  up,  she  says,  never  falls  to 
turn  back  his  bedclothes  upon  aris- 
ing In  the  morning.  If  the  clothes, 
sheets  and  all,  are  turned  back 
smoothly  over  the  footboard  and  the 
pillows  placed  near  the  open  window 
in  a  convenient  chair,  she  decides 
that  the  young  man's  mother  instilled 
into  him  that  good  breeding  which 
makes  neatness  and  cleanliness  and 
care  Imperative  to  his  comfort  and 
that  of  his  hostess.    She  further  adds 


205 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Handy    Hints    on    Housekeeping 

a  few  remarks  on  the  "  fine  husband  that  man  is  going 
to  make  "  who  remembers  the  little  things,  but  they 
would  be  out  of  place  In  a  bachelor  book.  Many  there 
are,  however,  who  never  pay  attention  to  such  details, 
but  leave  the  bed  rumpled  and  tumbled  as  they  jump 
out  of  it  In  the  morning.  The  well-bred  young  man 
always  airs  his  bed  with  the  same  care  In  which  he 
takes  his  morning  tub,  putting  the  pillows,  If  possible, 
where  the  sunlight  may  fall  upon  them.  Falling  this, 
the  air  at  least  keeps  the  feathers  fluffy  and  light  and 
the  ticking  fresh  and  clean. 

TO  CLEAN  Hair  brushes  and  clothes  brushes  need 
BRUSHES  constant  care  to  keep  them  In  proper  con- 
dition. Comb  the  loose  hair  and  dust  from  them  every 
time  they  are  used.  Once  a  week  Is  not  too  often  to 
clean  the  brushes  In  dally  use.  Pour  In  the  wash  basin 
some  tepid  water  and  add  ammonia  to  make  strong. 
Hold  the  brush  In  this  a  few  moments,  taking  care  not 
to  let  the  water  go  above  the  bristles'  top,  then  take 
a  whisk  broom  and  brush  the  bristles  out  as  If  dusting 
them.  The  ammonia  cuts  the  dirt  and  grease,  and 
makes  a  brush  like  new  after  such  treatment.  Dry  in 
the  sun  or  In  the  open  air.  If  possible.  If  not,  lay  on 
a  papef  over  the  radiator.  It  should  be  first  wiped  dry 
with  a  clean  cloth.  Combs  may  be  cleaned  In  the  same 
way.  To  clean  sponges,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
into  the  sponge  and  thoroughly  work  It  Into  the  fiber. 
Then  rinse  in  warm  water.  This  makes  It  sweet  and 
206 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
Handy    Hints    on    Housekeeping 

clean  as  new.  Horn  combs,  by  the  way,  should  not  be 
cleaned  in  water,  which  causes  them  to  split.  One 
may  buy  for  fifteen  or  twenty  cents  at  almost  any 
drug  store  small  stiff  brushes  which  come  for  the 
purpose  of  cleaning  combs. 

TO  Nowadays,  with  the  prevailing  craze  for 

SCOUR  collecting  copper  and  brass,  most  houses 
COPPER  contain  at  least  a  few  pieces,  and  they  re- 
quire special  care  if  they  be  kept  bright.  To  scour 
copper  take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  bath  brick  dust  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  baking  soda  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Dampen  a  cloth  in  gasolene  or  coal  oil,  dip  in  the  mix- 
ture and  polish  with  that.  Afterward  polish  with 
chamois  skin.  One  young  bachelor  who  boasts  a  fine 
collection  of  copper  bought  most  of  it  from  Russian 
Jews,  and  some  pieces  were  almost  hopeless  at  first. 
But  this  treatment  and  a  little  patience  made  them 
shine  like  new. 

TO  Take  putty  powder  and  add  to  it  sufficient 

BRIGHTEN  sweet  oil  to  make  a  paste.  Rub  with  this 
liRAbb  |.|^g  brass  or  copper  until  all  foreign  matter 

is  removed.  Then  wash  the  article  with  soap  and 
water  and  rub  dry  with  a  clean  cloth.  Brass  may  also 
be  cleaned  with  lemon  or  orange  juice  thickened  with 
whiting.  Apply  with  a  chamois  skin  or  a  flannel  rag. 
To  remove  verdegris  from  brass,  add  to  the  juice  of 
one  lemon  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  mix  well  and  apply 
with  a  soft  flannel.  Rinse  and  rub  well  with  chamois 
207 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Handy    Hints    on    Housekeeping 

skin.  Be  very  careful  if  you  have  a  scratch  on  your 
hand,  as  verdegris  is  a  poison.  Some  collectors  brighten 
brass  without  the  use  of  paste,  simply  applying  hot 
ammonia  water.  Or,  better  still,  pour  the  aqua  am- 
monia directly  on  the  brass  and  scrub  with  a  brush. 
Rinse  in  clear  water  and  wipe  dry.  The  result  will  be 
a  beautiful  polish. 

TO  Scour  with  powdered  borax  and  a  damp 

BRIGHTEN  rag,  rinsing  off  with  clear  water.     If  dis- 

NICKEL  colored,  make  a  paste  of  equal  parts  of 
PLATE  .  . 

ammonia  and  alcohol  and  enough  whiting 

to  make  thin,  applying  with  a  piece  of  chamois  skin. 

Rub  the  nickel  with  a  piece  of  clean  chamois  or  flannel 

until  bright.     This  will  keep  the  chafing-dish  bright 

and  clean.     The  smoke  from  the  alcohol  lamp  should 

first  be  washed  off  in  hot  soap  suds.     If  very  thick, 

wipe  off  first  with  a  piece  of  newspaper  before  washing. 

TO  Silver  flasks  and  other  articles  may  be  kept 

KEEP  bright  by  wrapping  from  the  air,  in  blue 

SILVER         tissue   paper.      Never   place   near    rubber, 

which  quickly  discolors  it.  A  rubber  band 
or  a  sulphur  match  will  work  havoc  with  silver  in  no 
time. 

CHIFFON-  that  stick  or  "  creak  "  when  opened  are  an 
lER  OR  annoyance  to  anyone,  especially  if  he  is 
BUREAU  hurried.  This  may  be  easily  avoided  by 
DRAWERS       ,,.         ,        J  X    I,     J  J     J 

rubbmg  the  edges  or  the  drawer  and  the 

part  on  which  it  slides  with  a  piece  of  soap,  which 
makes  it  slide  easily  and  noiselessly. 
208 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 
Handy    Hints    on    Housekeeping 

A  FEW  Pictures  should  never  be  hung  so  high 
HINTS  that  it  becomes  necessary  to  mount  a  chair 

HANCINC  '^^  order  to  see  them.  Hang  so  the  center 
PICTURES  ^'^^^  ^^  ^^  ^  ^^"^^^  ^^'^^^  ^^^  ^^"^  °^  vision 
of  the  person  of  average  height,  or  about 
five  and  one-half  feet  from  the  floor.  Never  hang  from 
one  nail.  Let  the  cord  be  carried  over  two  nails  or 
picture  hooks,  so  to  come  squarely  down  to  the  corners 
of  the  frame.  That  gives  an  impression  of  carefulness 
and  completeness.  Everyone  must  consult  his  own 
taste  as  to  the  grouping  of  pictures. 

In  hanging  pictures  the  stock  in  hand  should  be 
looked  over  and  a  general  scheme  decided  upon.  Some 
pictures  *'  go  well  together,"  others  should  be  ruled 
out  of  the  companionship  of  the  select.  Every  man 
has  some  decided  preference  in  pictures;  one  may  elect 
to  have  nothing  but  old  English  sporting  prints,  another 
may  have  photographs  of  the  old  masters  for  a  hobby. 
Artists  may  pass  this  over,  for  in  studio  decoration 
artistic  license  holds  sway,  and  far  be  it  from  anyone  to 
suggest  to  the  embryonic  Meissonier  or  Gerome  what  to 
choose  or  how  to  hang  it. 

Oil  paintings  and  water  colors  should  never  be  al- 
low^ed  to  become  intimate  companions,  but  the  latter 
may  hobnob  with  etchings,  pastels,  drawings,  photo- 
graphs, and  even  engravings  without  losing  their  dig- 
nity. An  oil  painting  of  exceptional  excellence  should 
be  given  a  special  corner  and  preferably  made  still 
more  exclusive  by  being  hung  in  a  black  box,  with 

209 


A     BACHELOR'S     CUPBOARD 

Handy    Hints    on    Housekeeping 

immunity  from  contrast  with  or  contact  with  pictures 
of  another  order.  By  the  same  token,  there  should  be 
no  indiscriminate  mixing  of  figure  pieces  and  land- 
scapes— at  least,  they  must  not  be  at  too  close  quarters, 
although  they  may  appear  in  the  same  room. 

Water  colors  and  pastels  in  delicate  tints  and  black 
and  whites  and  soft  etchings  should  properly  be  placed 
in  wall  spaces  where  the  light  is  strongest.  The  darker 
and  more  heavily  shaded  pictures  should  hang  farther 
away  from  the  light.  From  the  faintly  colored  pictures 
in  the  clearest  light,  the  glance  should  be  involuntarily 
but  skilfully  led  to  the  deeper  toned  pictures  farther 
back  in  the  room. 

Sometimes,  however,  a  dark  corner  that  needs  bright- 
ening may  demand  a  lighter  picture  or  a  spot  of 
brilliant  coloring  may  be  risked.  A  pen-and-ink  sketch 
with  white  mat^  along  Gibson  lines,  fills  in  well  in 
such  a  case.  Harmony  must  be  studied  and  the  posi- 
tions of  a  picture  well  considered  before  its  position  is 
decided.  A  picture  with  broad,  white  mat  should 
never  be  hung  next  to  a  carbon  in  heavy  black  frame. 
The  eye  must  be  led,  not  jerked,  from  one  picture  to 
another. 


Cl)e    ;fooU6i|)    Series 


sold.    Its  700 

witty  definitions  are  quoted   in  every  walk  of  life  wherever 
the  English  language  is  spoken.     A  book  for  everybody  who 
loves  fun  in  words  —  in  fact  "  A  Dictionary  of  Humor." 
Over  50  Illustrations  by  Wallace  Goldsmith 

Regular  Edition,  Cloth,  $    .J  S 

Bound  in  Red  Levant,  net,      I  •  2  5 

iFOOltSJl  iFlnante  a  mirthful  book  on  an 
. branches  of  finance.  Illus- 
trated by  Wallace  Goldsmith.  Cloth,  $   .1  C 

iFoolfj^il  iSttquette  By  o  b  hawe.    a 

. jesting    treatise    on     be- 
havior under  all  possible  and  impossible  circumstances. 
Over  100  Illustrations  by  Wallace  Goldsmith 

Regular  Edition,  Cloth,    %    .'75 
Bound  in  Purple  Ooze  Calf,  net,       I '2  5 

ffifte  iFoolf St)  almanac  2nti  itisrareiy 

, that    so 

much  of  fun,  keen  wit,  and  satire  is  found  between  two  covers. 
All  the  regular  Almanac  features  jestingly  treated.  Very 
attractively  printed  in  thrae  colors. 

Over  100  illustrations  by  Wallace  Goldsmith. 

Cloth,    I    .75 

NO  TE  :  Our  first  Foolish  Almanac,  which  met  with  such  pronounced 
favor  in  1905,  may  also  be  had  at  the  same  price. 

1  Any  of  the  above  books  may  be  found  at  your  bookseller'' s ,  or 

will  be  sent  by  the  publishers,  postage  prepaid,  on  receipt  of  price. 

f  ol^tt  W,  iLuce  anti  Company 

31    BEACON   STREET,  BOSTON 


atitiittoiial  Cities  from 

31o^n  W,  met  &  company'^  U^t 
gi^g  CS^lrl  in  gaaafting  By  archi~ 

"  A  very  unusual  novel  " ?I«50 

^11  tip  ZlZlfir^  Move  episode  told  in  I  oof  ac-simile 
telegran:is     .         .         .          j^l.OO 

gfje  Misfit  entjgtfflai^  a^uti= 

lltlfltiS     I^y  the  Consolation  Club. 

^         A  beautifully  illustrated  Christmas  Story 
With  over  20  Sketches  by  Wallace  Goldsmith  ^1.25 

grt)g  cranteybiUe  most  fjJ^rsJ:, 

and  grotesquely  amusing.  ^ 

Illustrated  by  Wallace  Goldsmith        ^  I.OO 

Everything  a  bachelor  should  know  .  .  .  ^I.OO 
Genuine  copies,  exquisitely  bound  in  full  leather  ^I-S^ 

CKgorge  13ernayg  Si^ato;  %fia 

39laPfii  ^  critical  analysis  by  Henry  L.  Mencken 
— ^—  ll.OO 

IBff{0trafflS  anir  ^pt)ori6tn6  ^^o^^^*" 

Sparks  from  a  brilliant  mind  ....  $1.50 
H  Any  of  the  above  books  will  be  sent  by  the  publishers,  postage 
prepaid,  on  receipt  of  price. 

f  o|)n  1^.  iLuce  anti  Company 

31  BEACON  STREET,  BOSTON 


,<^<? 

0^%^^ 

<>^ 


